Reg.No. KLYTYCNY12 


Government of Kerala 

1980 


KERALA GAZETTE 


SUPPLEMENTS 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


Vol. XXV ] 


1st January 1980 
Trivandrum , Tuesday, 

11th Pousha 1901 (Saka) 


[No. 1 


PARTI 


CONTENTS 


Page 


7 


General Administration Department 
G.O. (MS) 13/79 PR . dated 5-12-1979 (Amendment 

to the Rules for Subsidy to films entirely produced 
in the State ) 


1-25 


Higher Education Department 
2 G. O. (MS) 92 /78 /H . Edn . dated 21-6-1978 ( Rules for 

allotment and occupation of staff quarters under 
the Department of Technical Educaticn ) 

Labour and Housing Department 
3-9 . Awards on industrial disputes : 
Labour Court, Quilon 

53/77 , 87/78 , 

6 , 24/79 
Ernakulam 

... 71/79 
Kozhikode 17177 , 46/78 

Labour and Social Welfare Department 
10. No. (MS) 123 /79 /L & SW . dated 13-12-1979 (Defining 

the territorial jurisdiction of Deputy Labour 
Commissioners) 


1 


PAGE 


1-2 


1 --- 2 


1-3 


1-2 


Local Administration and Social Welfare Department 
6,9 ..(M $)-244 /78/LA & SWD. dated 19-10-1979 [ The 
Kerala Panchayats (Budget) Amendment Rules , 

1979 ] 
12 . 

Kerala Panchayats ( Public and Private Markets ) 

Amendment Rules, 1979 ] 
13 . G. O. ( P ) 279 /79/LA & SWD . dated 27-11-1979 

(Amendment to the Kerala Destitute Pension 

Scheme Rules, 1973 ) 
14. No. 46500 /G2/78 /LA & SWD. dated 4-12-979 [ The 

Greater Cochin Development Authority (Amend 
ment) Rules, 1979] 

Public Relations Department 
15. No. 35361 /E1179/PR . dated 12-12-1979 (Rules for 
the Kerala State Awards for Malayalam Films) 

Section i 
16. The Companies (Amendment) Ordinance, 1979 
17. The Salary , Allowances . nd Pension of Members of 

Parliament (Amendment) Act, 1979 
18. The Government of U..ion Territories (Amendment) 

Ordinanc ,-979... ! 
19 The Payme: t of Bums ( Amendmens) Ordinat:ce, 


1-6 


1-3 


1 


1979 ... 


10 . 


TI 


1-3 


21 . 


Section iii 
The Kcrala Payment of Arrears in Instalments Act, 

1979 
The Ker.. a Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1979 

Section iv 
S. R. O. Nos. - 1, 2 , 3 , 4, 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11, 12 

and 13/1980 


22 31. 


Reg. No. KL /TV ( N )/12 


Governmentof Kerala 

1980 


PORT 


KERALA GAZETTE 

EXTRAORDINARY 
PUBLIHED BY AUTHORITY 


1st January 1980 


Vol. XXV ] Trivandrum , Tuesday 


[No. 1 


11th Pousha 1901 (Saka) 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Water and Transport ( Transport B ) Department 

DECLARATION 


No. 23212 / TB2/79/W & T. 

Dated, Trivandrum , 31st December 1979 . 
Whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of Article 
258 of the Constitution , the President has, in his notification No. 2/4 /63 /Judl. II 
dated 31-5-1963 entrusted the Government of Kerala , with their consent 
the functionsofthe Central Government, under the Kerala Land Acquisition 
Act, 1961 (Acť 21 of 1962) , in relation to acquisi 

of land for the purpose 
of the Union in this State ; 

And whereas under subsection (4 ) of Section 19 of the said Act the 
Government of Kerala have directed that in view of the urgency of the case 
the provisions of section 5 of the Act shall not apply to the lands specified in 
the schedule below ; 

And whereas the Government are satisfied that the said lands have to 
be acquired for a public purpose ; 

The Government of Kerala hereby declare under section 6 of the Act 
that the lands specified in the Schedule below and measuring 0.0710 
Hectare be the same a little morc or less, arc needed for a public 

33 /10 /B . 


2 


purpose , to wit for doubling the rail track between Shornur and Mullurkkara 
and under Section 7 of the Act directs the Special Tahsildar 
(LA ) Railways, Trichur- 3 to take order for the acquisition of 
the lands. Further, under subsection (1) of section 19 of the Act the 
Government direct that the Collector may take possession of the lands 
on the expiry of fifteen days from the date of publication of the notice 
mentioned in subsection (1) of section 9 of the Act. 

A plan of the lands is kept in the office of the Special Tahsildar (LA ), 
Railways , Trichur -3 and may be inspected at any time during office hours. 

ഭരണഘടന 258 -ാം വകുപ്പ് (1 ) -ാം ഖണ്ഡത്താൽ നൽകപ്പെട്ട അധികാര 
ങ്ങൾ വിനിയോഗിച്ച് രാഷ്ടപതി, യൂണിയന്റെ ആവശ്യത്തിനായി ഈ 
സംസ്ഥാനത്ത 

ഭൂമി 

വിലയ്ക്കെടുക്കുന്നത് സംബന്ധിച്ചിടത്തോളം , 
1961 - ലെ കേരള സ്ഥലമെടുപ്പ് ആക്ററ് (1962- ലെ 21 -ാം - ആക്ററ്) 
പകാരം കേന്ദ്ര ഗവൺമെൻറിൻറെ പ്രവൃത്തികൾ തൻ 31-5-1963 -ാം തീയതി 
യിലെ 2/ 4/63IJudl. II നമ്പർ പരസ്യ പ്രകാരം കേരള ഗവൺമെൻറിനെ, ആ 
ഗവൺമെൻറിന്റെ സമ്മതത്തോടുകൂടി ഭരമേൽപ്പിച്ചിരിക്കയാലും; 

പ്രസ്തുത ആക്ററ് 19 -ാം വകുപ്പ് (4) -ം ഉപവകുപ്പു പ്രകാരം കരള 
ഗവൺമെൻറ് പ്രസ്തുത സംഗതിയുടെ അടിയന്തിരസ്ഥിതി പരിഗണിച്ച്, 
ആക ° ററ ° 5 -ാം വകുപ്പിലെ വ്യവസ്ഥകൾ താഴെ പട്ടികയിൽ വിവരിച്ചിട്ടുളള 
ഭൂമിക്ക് ബാധകമല്ലെന്ന് നിർദ്ദേശിക്കയാലും; 
( പസ്തുത ഭൂമി ഒരു പൊതുക്കാര്യത്തിനായി 

വിലയ്ക്കെടുക്കേണ്ടതാ 
ണെന്ന് ഗവൺമെന്റിന് ബോദ്ധ്യപ്പെട്ടിരിക്കുന്നതിനാലും ; 

കേരള ഗവൺമെൻറ് താഴെകാണുന്നപട്ടികയിൽ വിവരിച്ചിട്ടുളളതും0.0710 
ഹെക°ടർ വിസ്തീർണ്ണമുളളതുമായ ഭൂമി, അത്അതതന്നയോ, അതിൽ അൽപ്പം 
കുറവോ കൂടുതലോ ആയിരുന്നാലും വേണ്ടതില്ല , ഒരു പൊതുക്കാര്യത്തിന 
അതായത് ഷൊർണ്ണൂരിനും മുള്ളൂർകരക്കും ഇടക്ക് റെയിൽപ്പാത ഇരട്ടിപ്പിക്കുന്ന 
തിന് ആവശ്യമാണെന്ന്ആക്ററ് 6 -ാം വകുപ്പു പ്രകാരം ഇതിനാൽ ( പഖ്യാപിക്കു 
കയും, ആ ഭൂമി വിലയ ° ക്കെടുക്കുന്നതിനുളള 

ഉത്തരവ് 

സ്വീകരിപ്പാൻ 
ആക്ററ് 7 -ാം വകുപ്പു പ്രകാരം തശ്ശൂർ റെയിൽവെ ലാൻറ് അക്വിസിഷൻ 
സ്പെഷ്യൽ തഹശീൽദാർ എന്ന ആളോട് നിർദ്ദേശിക്കുകയും ചെയ്യുന്നു . 
ആക്ററ° 9 -ാം വകുപ്പ് (1) Oം ഉപവകുപ്പിൽ പറഞ്ഞിരിക്കുന്ന നോട്ടീസ 
പ്രസിദ്ധപ്പെടുത്തുന്ന തീയതി മുതൽ പതിനഞ്ചു ദിവസം കഴിഞ്ഞാൽ 
കളക്ററർക്ക് ആ ഭൂമി കൈവശപ്പെടുത്താവുന്നതാണെന്നും കൂടി ആക്റ 
19 -ാം വകുപ്പ് (1 )ം ഉപവകുപ്പു പ്രകാരം ഗവൺമെൻറ് നിർദ ° ദേശിക്കുകയും 
ചെയ്യുന്നു . 

സ്ഥലത്തിന്റെ പ്ലാൻ ത്യശ്ശൂർ റെയിൽവെ ലാൻറ് അക്വിസിഷൻ 
സ്പെഷ്യൽ തഹശീൽദാർ എന്ന ആളുടെ 

ആഫീസിൽ സൂക്ഷിച്ചിട്ടുണ്ട്. 
ആഫീസ് സമയത്ത്എപ്പോഴെങ്കിലും അത് പരിശോധിക്കുകയും ചെയ്യാം. 


3 


SCHEDULE 


Taluk - Talaprilly. 


(Block No. 155) 
District - Trichur. 

Village - Attoor. 

( The extent given is approximate) 
SL Sy. No. 

Description 
No. 
42 /1-4 

Dry 
2 42 / 3-5 

do . 
3 52 /2-3 

do . 
4 52/ 2-4 

do . 


Extent in 
Hectare 
0.0180 
0.0230 
0.0280 
0.0020 


Total 


0.0710 


By order of the Governor, 

P. SANKARAN NAIR , 

Additional Secretary . 
GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Water and Transport ( Transport B ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 
No. 23212 / TB2/79/W & T. Dated , Trivandrum , 31st December, 1979 . 

S.R.O. No. 14 /80. - In exercise of the powers conferred by subsection 
(1) of section 3 of the Kerala Land Acquisition Act, 1961 (21 of 1962), read 
with Notification No. 2 /4 /63/Jdi. II dated the 31st May, 1963 of the 
President of India , the Government of Kerala hereby omit the land 
specified in the schedule below from the schedule to the Notification ( 1) 
issued under No. 12318 / TB2/79 / W & T dated the 31st May , 1979 and 
published in the Kerala Gazette Extraordinary No. 412 dated the 12th 
June, 1979 . 

SCHEDULE 

( Block No. 155 ) 
District - Trichur. 

Taluk - Talappilly: 
Village - Attoor . 

Extent 
Sy. No. Description 

in Hectare 
53/2 

0.2300 


Dry 


താഴെ 


Explanatory Note 
( This is not part of the Notification but is intended to bring out the 
general purport). 

The land specified in the schedule above was also included in the 3 ( 1) 
notification but now it seems,not necessary to acquire the said land since the 
Railways have changed the alignment. Hence this notification . 

എസ്. ആർ. ഒ. നമ്പർ 14 /80. - ഇൻഡ്യൻ പ്രസിഡൻറിൻറ 31-5-1963- ലെ 
2 |4| 63|ജൂഡിഷ്യൽ II എന്ന നമ്പർ വിജ്ഞാപനത്തോട് ചേർത്തു വായിച്ച 
പകാരമുളള 1961- ലെ കേരള സ്ഥലമെടുപ്പു ആക° s ” (1962 - ലെ 21) 3 -ാം 
വകുപ്പ് (1) -ാം ഉപവകുപ്പുമൂലം നൽകപ്പെട്ട അധികാരങ്ങൾ വിനിയോഗിച്ച് 

കേരള സർക്കാർ , 1979 മേയ് 31 -ാം തീയതിയിലെ 12318/ ററിബി 2/ 79 / വാട്ടർ 
ആൻഡ് ട്രാൻസ്പോർട്ട് എന്ന നമ്പരിൽ പുറപ്പെടുവിച്ചതും 1979 ജൂൺ 
12 -ാം തീയതിയിലെ 412 -ാം നമ്പർ കേരള അസാധാരണ ഗസററിൽ പ്രസിദ്ധ 

പ്പെടുത്തിയതുമായ (1 ) -ാം വിജ്ഞാപനത്തിലെ പട്ടികയിൽനിന്നും 
പട്ടികയിൽ പറഞ്ഞിട്ടുളള ഭൂമി ഇതിനാൽ വിട്ടുകളയുന്നു . 

പട്ടിക 

( ബ്ലോക്ക് നമ്പർ. 155 ) 
ജില്ല -തശ്ശൂർ. 

താലൂക്ക് തലപ്പിളളി 
വില്ലേജ°_ആററൂർ 
സർവ്വേ നമ്പർ 

വിവരണം 

വിസ്തീർണ്ണം 

ഹെക്ററർ 
5312 പുരയിടം 

0.0200 
വിശദീകരണക്കുറിപ്പ് 
പട്ടികയിൽ 

കംണിച്ചിരിക്കുന്ന ഭൂമിയും 3 (1) നോട്ടിഫി 
ക്കേഷനിൽ ഉൾപ്പെടുത്തിയിരുന്നതാണ്. എന്നാൽ റെയിൽവേ അധികാരികൾ 
അലൈൻമെൻറിൽ 

വരുത്തിയിരിക്കുന്നതുകൊണ്ട് ഈ ഭൂമി 
ഏറെറടുക്കേണ്ട " ആവശ്യമില്ല 

എന്നു കാണുന്നു . 

അതിനാലാണ് ഈ 
വിജ്ഞാപനം. 

By order of the Governor, 
P. SANKARAN NAIR , 
Additional Secretary.. 


മുകളിൽ 


മാററം 


PRIN TED AND PUBLISHIED BY THE S. G. P. AT THE GOVERNMENT PRESS, 

TRIVANDRUM 1980 . 


Reg. No. KL /TV (N )/12 


! Government of Kerala 

1980 


KERALA CAZETTE 

EXIKA URDINARY 
PUBLI HED EY AUTHOR TY 


Is January 1980 


No. 


2 


Vol. XXV7 


Trivandrum , Tuesday , 


11th Pousha 1901 


BOARD OF REVENUE (CIVIL SUPPLIES 


NOTIFICATION 
No. (Cs ) C3-10025 79 Datou , Trivandrum , 24th December 1979 

In exercise of the powers conferred on me under sub clause ( 2 ) 
of clause 9 of the Kerala Motor Spirit and High Speed Oil (Mainte 
nance and Regulation of Supplies ) Order, 1979 , I, Shri T. Madhava 
Menon , Commissioner of Civil Supplies, Kerala , herehy suspend 
upto 31-3-1980 the order issued in Notification No. (Cs ) C3-18025 
79 dated 4-7-1979 . 

This order will come into effect from 1-1-1980 . 


T. MADHAVA MENON , 

Commissioner of Ciril Supplies. 

Explanatory Note 
( This is not part of the Notification but is intended to indicate 
its general purport ) . 

In view of the ensuing Assembly elections, it has been decided to 
suspend the order upto 31-3-1980 . 

The Notification is intended for the above purpose . 


I F.INTED BY TIE S. G. P. AT THE GOVERNMENT PRESS, 

TRIVANDRUM , 1990 . 


2011 m . 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 . 
PART I 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 

Abstract 
PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT - RULES FOR SUBSIDY TO FILMS 

ENTIRELY PRODUCED IN THE STATE - AMENDMENT ISSUED . 


GENERAL ADMINISTRATION (PUBLIC RELATIONS E ) 

DEPARTMENT 
G. O. (Ms) No. 13 /79 /PR . Dated , Trivandrum , 5th December 1979 . 


Read: G. O. (Ms) No. 11/79 /PR . dated 6-11-1979. 


ORDER 


Government are pleased to order that the films, the production of 
which have already been completed or commenced , are exempted from the 
provision of Rule III (3 ) of the Rules for the grant of subsidy to films 
produced in Kerala, issued in the G.O. read above . It will be applicable 
to films, the production of which will commence from 15-12-1979 only . 

By order of the Governor , 

K. P. S. MENON , 
Additional Soctafary . 


Το 


The Managing Director , Kerala State Films Development Corporation 

Limited . 
The Accountant General of Kerala 
The file leading to G.O. (MS) 11/79 /GAD . 


G. 2083 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 
PARTI 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 


Abstract 


EDUCATION DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION - RULES FOR 
ALLOTMENT AND OCCUPATION OF STAFF QUARTERS UNDER THE 

DEPARTMENT OR TECHNICAL EDUCATION - APPROVED . 


HIGHER EDUCATION (G ) DEPARTMENT 
G. O. MS. No. 92 |78 |H . Edn . Dated , Trivandrum , 21st June 1978 . 


from the 


Read : -- Letter No. Fin . B423886 |76 dated 16-7-1976 

Director of Technical Education . 


ORDER 


Government are pleased to issue the rules appended to this 
order for allotment and occupation of staff quarters attached to the 
Government Engineering Colleges , Polytechnics and other institu 
tions under the Department of Technical Education . 


By order of the Governor , 
V. VENKITANARAYANAN , 

Special Secretary. 


Το 

The Director of Technical Education . 
The Principals of Engineering Colleges, Trivandrum and Trichur. 
The Principals of Government Polytechnics. 
The Accountant General — This issues with the concurrence of the Finance 

Department. 
The Finance Department- Vido U. o . No. 4397|Edn . B1|78 |Fin . dated 

9-6-1978 . 
The P. W. & I .-- Vid . U. O. No. 1462810376| PS dated 11-4-1977. 
G.1270MC . 


2 
Rules for the Allotment and Occupation ofGovernment Servants 
Quarters Attached to the Government Engineering Colleges , 
Polytechnics and other Institutions under Technical 

Education Department 
1 . Short title . These rules shall be called the rules for allotment 
and occupation of Government Servants quarters attached to the 
Guverunient Engineering Colleges , Polytechnics and other Technical 
Institutions Kerala . 

2. Extent of application. These rules shall apply to all residential 
buildings under the control of the Heads of the Government Engi 
neering Colleges, Povi cinics and other Technical Irstitutions . 

3. Definitions. - In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant 
to the subject or context: 

(i) " Quarter " means buildings constructed leased or acquired 
by Government for being let out to Government servants for their 
residence on payment of rent, which are under the control of the 
Heads of Institutions of Government Engineering Colleges, Poly 
technics and other Technical Institutions or the Director of Technical 
Education as the case may be. 

( ii) “ Applicant” means a Government servant who is eligible 
for allotment of a quarters and who submits an application for 
allotment of quarters in the form prescribed (Vide Appendix -II) . 

( iii) " Allottee " means a Government servant to whom 
quarters has been allotted by competent authority but not occupied . 

( iv ) " Occupant” means an allottee who takes possession of 
the quarters duly allotted to him after completing all formalities 
required as per these rules. 

( v ) . " Head of Institution " means the Principal of the Govern 
ment Engineering College, Polytechnics , Superintendents of J. T. 
Schools or the Director of Technical Education as the case may be. 

( vi) " Rent” means monthly rent payable by the occupant 
for the quarters as specified these rules. 

( vii) " Standard rent” means the rent fixed for a quarters by 
the P. W.D. and got approved by Government based on its capital 
cost and other aspects as laid down in the relevant rules issued in 
that behalf. 

( viii ) " Pay ” means pay as defined in Rule 12 ( 23 ) Part-i of. 
K. S. R. 

( ix ) " Family " for the purpose of these rules include officer s 
wife husband, children , step children residing with him her . 

4 . (a ) Eligibility .- ( 1 ) The Government quarters are intended 
for allotment to the staff ( Teaching and Non - Teaching ) of Govern 
ment Engineering Colleges , Polytechnics and J. T. Schools who do 
not have their own accommodation facilities in the place of duty . 


3 


( ii) Quarters shall be allotted only to those officers who do 
not have residential buildings within a radius of 15 ( fifteen ) kms. 
from the College, either in their own names or in the names of their 
wives husbands as the case may be or in the names of their unmarried 
sons daughters whether inherited or purchased or obtained o iher 
wise, including that under any hire purchase scheme. 

( iii) Non availability of own accommodation facilities shall 
be clearly and specifically stated in the relevant column in the appli 
cation for allotment of quarters. In case it is subsequently detected 
that the statement iii the application form in this regard is not 
true to facts, the allottee shall be liable to pay from the date of 
occupation of the quarters penal rent at three times the rate of 
standard rent fixed for the quarters and to eviction under the provi 
sions of the Kerala Public Buildings (Eviction of unauthorised occu 
pants ) Act , 1968 and the rules made thereunder , from the quarters 
forthwith and in addition , the allottee shall also be liable for disci 
plinary action under the relevant rules. 

(iv ) In case any allottee or occupant of Government quarters 
subsequently acquires or obtains residential buildings in any manner 
referred to in para 4 ( a ) the fact shall be forthwith intimated by 
the allottee occupant to the Head of the Institution and the occupant 
shall without fail vacate the quarters within one month from the 
state on which the occupant acquires or obtains such residential 
buildings. Occupation beyond the date of expiry of the said month 
will be treated as unauthorisce cccupation and the allottee or occu 
pant shall be liable to the penalties envisaged in these rules . 

( v ) Failure to give timely intimation mentioned in clause ( iv ) 
shall make the allottee occupant liable to pay penal rent from the 
date of acquiring or obtaining such residential buildings till the date 
of vacating the Government quarters buildings, at three times the 
rate of standard rent fixed for the quarters buildings in addition to 
the other penalties including disciplinary action . 

(b ) Persons who are not eligible for quarters (i) Unmarried 
Officers. 
Note : If vacant quarters are available requests from un . 

married officers can be considered for the allotment of 
quarters on condition that the quarters should be 
vacated on fifteen days notice from the Head of the 
Institution for being allotted to an Officer having a 

family . 
(ii) Officers who are not paid from the consolidated fund of 
the State Government and who are not the niembers of the staff of 
the Institution Teaching and non -teaching , 


4 


Note : If vacant quarters are availablo requests from ofcers of 

other Government Departments may also be considered , 
but such officers will be required to vacate the quarters 
on one month s notice if the quarters is required subse 
quently for the use of staff members of the institution 

concerned . 
( iii) Officers who have been evicted from the quarters due 
to violation of rules or other grounds . 

(iv ) Officers who own a house in their own names or in the 
name of their wives husbands as mentioned in Rule 4 ( a ) (ii) . 

(v ) Persons borne on contingent establishment|daily wages / 
work charged . 
Explanation : Married persons whose wife husband is no more or 

is legally separated , but having dependent child or 

children will be eligible to occupy the quarters. 
(vi) Person whose wife or husband has already been allotted 
quarters elsewhere . 

5. Type of Quarters Eligible for . – For the purpose of allotment 
the quarters are classified into various types as given in Appendix -I. 

6. Allotment of Quarters.- ( 1 ) The application for allotment of 
quarters shall be made in the form in Appendix - II to the Head of the 
Institution who shall verify the correctness of the information furni 
shed in the application..If , on scrutiny, the application is found to be 
defective, it shall be intimated to the applicant to rectify it within 
seven days and if he complies with the directions it should be con 
sidered as valid application . All valid applications shall be counter 
signed (with date ) by the Head of the Institution . 

( 2 ) All the valid applications shall be registered in a register 
of Applications. If more than one applications are received for a 
specific type of quarters on the same day priority shall be given to 
the applicant who has been working at the place for longer period and 
even that being equalmore than one case , the applicant who is older. 

( 3 ) Separate Registers or separate folios in a single book in 
the Form in Appendix - III shall be maintained for each type of 
quarters. A separate Register shall be maintained for registering the 
applications which have priority in allotment and such applications 
shall be registered in both the Registers simultaneously . 

( 4 ) An applicant or occupant who due to promotion or other. 
wise , becomes eligible for a higher type of quarters , may submit 
fresh application for that type of quarters and shall be eligible for 
allotment of that quarters in the normal course according to the 
seniority in that group . In the case of an applicant he/she will have 


8 


5 


Olaim to get the original typo of quarters applied for , when his her 
turn comes in the normal course. In the case of an occupant ho 
will be allowed to continue to occupy the quarters till the time he is 
allotted a higher type of quarter . 

( 5 ) Quarters shall be allotted as soon as it falls vacant. In no 
case shall the allotment of a house be delayed for more than a week 
of its falling vacant. 

(6 ) The quarters shall be allotted strictly in accordance with 
the priority of applications in the respective group ie. according to 
the priority of applications from the respective grades of oficers 
for the type of quarters they are eligible for. 

( 7 ) The allotment orders shall be in the form given in 
Appendix -IV to be issued by the Head of the Institution . The 
liability on the part of the allottee for payment of rent for quarters 
commences after 7 days from the date of allotment crders or the 
date of occupation whichever is earlier . If by any chance the allottec 
does not require the quarters allotted to him he she shall intimate 
the fact to the Head of the Institution within three days of the date 
of alloment order . If such intimation is delayed, the allottee sha !! 
be liable to pay the rent of the quarters upto the date on which such 
intimation is received subject to the minimum of one month s rent. 
Note : The applicants should intimate the Head of Institution on 

writing, if their applications are to be cancelled , due to 
their transfer to another station , or promotion to 
Cadre making them not eligible for the quarters or any 
other circumstances making them not in need of the 
quarters. All such intimations shall be routed through 
their heads of offices with copy direct to the Head of the 

Institution who is the allotting authority . 
( 8 ) An officer to whom the quarter is allotted should occury 
the same within 10 days of the date of receipt of allotment order 
failing which the allotment shall be cancelled and the building 
allotted to the next applicant without intimation to the original 
Eliottee . The original allottee shall, however, be liable to pay rent 
at the minimum period of one morth . 

( 9 ) Applicants who are on leave or availing vacation at the 
time of issue of allotment orders shall be permitted to pro ong tho 
actual occupation of the quarters till they rejoin duty if they so 
request in writing to the allotting authority . The advance rent jave 
able shall be remitted within the time fixed and their liability to 
pay the rent of the quarters will commence after one week of the 
issue of allotment orders . 

( 10 ) In case where the officers of the Grade prescribed for 
particular type of quarters, as laid down in Rule 5 are not available 


2 


6 


or where they do not require accommodation in quarters, the fact 
being intimated to the Head of the Institution in writing, then such 
quarters may be allotted to other officers of a higher or lower grade , 
if any, who apply for such allotment, until an officer of the particular 
grade eligible for the particular type of quarters becomes available 
and applies for allotment of the quarters. In the event of receiving 
such application , the allotting authority shall give notice to the then 
occupant of the quarters to vacate the quarters within one month 
of the receipt of such notice allotting to him . The occupant 
(occupying the ineligible quarters ) shall vacate the quarters within 
one month of the receipt of the notice to vacate the quarters . The 
quarters shall then be allotted to such applicant or applicants on 
the basis of priority of application . If such applicant happens to be 
one who on any previous occasion did not want accommodation in 
the quarters and intimated the fact in writing to be allotting 
authority his application shall not be entertained and no real lotment 
of quarters as contemplated here shall be made in favour . If a 
lower type of quarters is allotted to a higher grade officer , the rent to 
be realised shall be 7.5 % of the pay of the Officer , from time to time or 
the standard rent whichever is lower and if a higher type of quarters 
is allotted to a lower grade officer, the rent to be realised shall be 
7.5 % of the pay of the officer from time to time or standard rent, 
whichever is higher. 
7. If an occupant due to reversion or 

other reasons , 

becomes 
ineligible for the type of quarters allotted to him her , but only to 
any of the lower type he/she may submit a fresh application for the 
type of quarters for which he she is eligible. He she shall be per 
mitted to continue to occupy the quarters provided he/she is willing 
to pay the standard rent of 7.5 % of the pay in the revised scale cal 
culated at the rate of pay he /she was drawing immediately before the 
reversion ; whichever is higher . If he she is not willing to this, he 
she shall immediately vacate the quarters and wait for his her turn 
for allotment of the quarters to which he she is eligible for in the 
normal course . 

8. The Head of the institution in charge of the buildings shall 
maintain a register of the allottees with details of the date of 
occupation , the date on which the building is vacated , rent collected , 
list of equipments fit cings etc. The head of the Institution shall 
inform the Audit Officer of the occupancy of the quarters from time 
to time. 

9. Priorities for allotment of quarters will be available to the 
following : 

( 1) Government servants who are wives of Jawans serving in 
border area and who were killed in action or reported missing (to 
be certified by proper Military authority ) . 


7 


(2 ) Officers who are physically handicapped ( to be certified by a 
Medical Officer not below the rank of an Assistant Surgeon Assistant 
Professor belonging to the particular speciality ) . 

(3 ) Ten per cent of the quarters inclusive of the special priori 
ties mentioned in Rule 9 shall be reserved for allotment to members 
belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and equal 
opportunity shall be given to applicants belonging to Scheduled 
Castes and Scheduled Tribes . 

( 4 ) Government servants who have entered into Inter- Caste 
marriage ( This should be certified by a Revenue Officer not below 
the rank of a Tahsildar ) . 
Notes : Priority for classes 1, 2 , 3 and 4 shall be 1 : 1 with other 

non -priority applicants . 
10. The following quarters shall be reserved exclusively for allot 
ment to the following categories of emergency staff . 

Type No. I (2 Nos.) One Water pump Mechanic & or Watchman . 
Type No. III ( 1 No.) One Head Accountant. 
Type No. IV ( 1 No.) One Junior Superintendent. 
Type No. V ( 1 No.) One Senior Superintendent. 

Type No.VI or VII ( 1 No.) Head of the Institution . 
11. ( i) An agreement in Appendix - V shall be executed by 
the allottees of the quarters before the quarters are actually occupied 
by them . 

(ii) The lease agreement to be executed shall be on plain paper 
the stamp duty being payable by the Government. The Head of the 
Institution in charge of the quarters shall be competent to accept the 
agreement on behalf of the Governor of Kerala and these agreements 
shall be recorded in his office , duly numbered and entered in а 
separate Register of Agreements .. 

12. Electric current charges and water charges where such ameni 
ties are available shall be payable by the occupants direct to the 
Kerala State Electricity Board , P. H. E. D. or other bodies maintain 
ing such system . 

" An allottee shall deposit one month s rent payable by him her 
or one month s standard rent whichever is lower before occupying 
the quarters . This amount shall be refunded to him /her after 
deducting the dues to Government, if any and cn production of a non 
liability certficate from the concerned authority when he she vacates 
the quarters . 
Note : The meter reading as on the date of occupation will be 

noted and the occupant shall be responsible for payment 


S 


towards further consumption charges . If, in the first 
bill received , any charges pertain to the period of occu 

pancy of the previous occupant, the Head of the Insti 
tution concerned shall collect the proportionate amount 
due from the occupant and settle the bill meeting the 
difference from the advance deposited by the previous 

occupant. 
13. ( i) The occupants shall provide their own furniture, other 
required materials and electric bulbs. 
Note : Where any items of furniture is provided by Government 

rent for the same as fixed by Government, shall be pay 
able by the occupant in addition to the rent of the 
quarters. In such cases no option shall be available for 
the occupant for non pa ;met of additional rent on the 
plea that such furniture is not used upon required by the 

occupant. 

( ii) An inventory of articles available in the quarters shall 
be prepared iu duplicate by the Head of the Institution concerned and 
signed by the occupant and the Head of the Institution as soon as 
the allottee occupies the house. The original of the inventory shall 
be kept by the Head of the Institution and the duplicate by the cccu 
pant. The occupancy shall be responsible for all articles included 
in the inventory until they are handed over to the Head of the Institu 
tion at the time of vacating the quarters and an unqualified acknow 
ledgement obtained for the same. 
Note : If any articles are lost or damaged , while in the custody 

of the occupant the cost thereof shall be recovered from 
the occupant as if it is arrears of rent. The cost of 
articles shall be fixed by the Head of the Institution at 
book value or market value whichever is higher plus 
ten per cent centage. After the requirement of the rules 
are duly fulfilled the key of the quarters shall be handed 
over to the allottee by the Head of the Institution 

concerned . 
14. The occupant shall keep the quarters and premises neat and 
tidy and shall be liable to make good any damages to the building 
and its installations caused during his her occupancy other than by 
normal wear and tear. Damages caused due to carelessness 
inadvertence of the occupant shall be repaired departmentally and 
cost recovered from the occupant as if it is arrears of rent. 

15. ( 1 ) Rent payable by the occupant of the quarters shall be 
7.5 % of his pay in the revised scale or the standard rent whichever 
is lower or the amount fixed in accordance with the rules in force 
from time to time. 


or 


9 


Explanations: (i) The above rate will take effect from 1-9-1974 . 

For the purpose of this rule, the definition of 
pay occuring in Rule 12 (23 ) K.S.R. Part - I shall 
be basis for reckoning the pay for calculation of 
the rate of rent. 
( ii) The rate of monthly rent prior to 1-9-1974 
is at the rate of 10 % of his/her pay or standard 
rent whichever is less . This pertains to the rate of 
recovery of 

arrears . In case of those who 
remained in prerevision scales of pay, the recovery 
of rent will be affected as ordered in G. O. ( P ) 

139 |76 |Fin dated 17-5-1976 . 
( 2 ) If the husband and wife are Government Servants and 
residing in the quarters the rent payable shall be calculated on the 
basis of the pay of the person drawing higher rate. However, the 
rent shall be payable by the person in whose name the quarters are 
allotted . The allottee in such case shall intimate the Head of the 
Institution the change in the rates of pay of himself herself as well 
as his wife her husband. Both the occupants shall be held jointly 
and severally responsible for payment of rent and other requirements 
of these as far as applicable to them . 

( 3 ) House ren t allowance shall be denied only to the allottee 
of the quarters whether it is the husband or the wife as the case 


may be. 


( 4 ) The standard rent shall be fixed at 8 % (Eight per cent) of 
the capital cost of the building. 
Explanation : For calculating the standard rent for the purpose 

of this rule, capital cost of a building shall be 
arrived at based on the instructions laid down in 

Appendix — VI. 
(5 ) Payment of rent or arrears thereof shall be made by short 
drawal in the salary bills of Officers to whom quarters are allotted . 

(6 ) In the case of the occupants who proceed on leave or are 
placed under suspension , the rent payable may be 7.5 % of a complete 
month s pay drawn by him /her immediately before he she proceeds 
on leave or is placed under suspension or standard rent, whichever 
is lower, and the amount shall be realised from his her leave salary 
or subsistance allowance as the case may be. In case no leave 
salary or subsistance allowance is payable to the occupants, the rent 
payable shall be recovered from the occupant in cash or as detailed 
in Rule 30 . 

16 . ( 1) A Government servant occupying the quarters when 
transferred from the station shall vacate the quarters within a period 

G.1270 /MC. 


10 
of one month from the date of handing over charge on transfer. The 
Government may consider the request for grant of extension of time 
for occupation of the quarters on merits and grant extension the 
extent necessary . 

In the cases of such continued occupation with Government 
permission beyond six month from the date of transfer of the Govern 
ment Servant occupying the quarters , payment of standard rent in 
advance before 5th of every month shall be realised . Action shall 
be taken for eviction of the occupants after the extended period . 
Note : This rule shall not apply if the quarters are occupied by 

husband and wife who are both Government servants and 
if only one of them is transferred from the station . If 
the quarters is allotted in the name of the person transfer 
red it shall be transferred to the name of the other person 
and rent recovery shall be effected based on the pay of 
the occupant on such cases . The formalities regarding 
registration of application and allotment detailed in Rule 
6 shall not be applicable in such case of transfer of 

allotment. 
( 2 ) Government servants occupying the quarters who retire from 
service shall vacate the quarters on the date of retirement. If they 
however wish to continue occupation on account of unavoidable 
circumstances they shall apply to the Head of the Institution suffi 
ciently early and in any case before fourteen days prior to the 
date of retirement. The Head of the Institution may consider the 
request for grant of extension for a period not exceeding six months 
in all or till the end of the academic year , ie., 30th April whichever is 
earlier . No further extension shall on any score be allowed . Action 
shall be taken for the eviction of the occupants after the extended 
period . If the request of the Government Servant for continued 
occupation is granted they shall pay the standard rent in advance 
before 5th of every month and also shall give an undertaking in 
writing to the Head of the institution to the effect that they shall 
be liable to the dues to Government if any being recovered from 
their pension , in case they fail to pay the dues . If the occupant 
continues occupation of the quarters unauthorisedly after the date 
of retirement, action shall be taken to evict him /her. 

( 3 ) "There occupancy terminates due to retirement or other 
causes , the officer s last pay shall be disbursed only on receipt of the 
certificate of the Head of the Institution to the effect that no rent 
is due from the officer. Receipt of this certificate shall also be a 
condition for the issue of non - liability certificate to or on behalf of 
the officer before final settlement of his her retirement benefits or 
payment of gratuity |pension to family . 

( 4 ) In case an officer goes on long leave for more than six 
months, previous, sanction of Government shall be obtained for 


11 


the continued occupation of the quarters. In such case rent shall 
be calculated and realised at the rates prescribed in rule 15. For 
the purpose of this rule the amount of pay drawn by the officer 
immediately before the commencement of leave shall be the basis 
for determining the amount of rent to be realised from the Officer . 

(5 ) In the event of the death of allottee of the quarter s the 
maximum period of continued occupation by the husband or wife or 
a very near relation who is not a Government servant working in the 
same Institution is fixed as six months in all or till the end of the 
acadamic year whichever is earlier from the date of death of the 
allottee . In such cases rent shall be realised based on the last pay 
drawn by the allottee of the quarters . 
Note : Very near relation is definded as follows : "Mother or 

father or daughter daughters cr sonsons who are 

wholly dependent on the allottee . 
The Heads of Office shall ascertain from the persons working 
under them and occupying quarters whether they have left any arrears 
of rent or other dues and show such amount in L.P.C. issued to 
Accountant General after retirement of the Officer for settling their 
terminal dues , if the individual concerned does not pay the dues 
before that. 

17. Whenever possible the occupant shall give advance informa 
tion to the Head of Institution concerned about vacating of quarters . 
Normally this period shall be 30 days in advance of the proposed 
date of vacating . In any case a minimum period of seven days shall 
be insisted on . If any occupant surrenders the keys , without any 
advance notice he she shall be liable to pay the rent, for another 
seven days also . The notice of vacating the quarters shall be sent 
to the Head of the Institution concerned specifying the date on which 
the quarters are proposed to be vacated . 

(i) The Head of the Institution concerned shall arrange to 
verify the condition of the quarter s and other amenities provided 
therein jointly with the occupant if possible, with reference to the 
list prepared in duplicate signed by the occupant and the Head of 
the Institution and one copy kept by each . If any damages or losses 
are noticed the fact should be noted in the charge papers. These 
shall be assessed by the Head of the Institution within one week and 
for making action for recovery from the occupant. 

(ii) The occupant shall produce the latest bill and relative 
receipt in support of payment of electric current charges and water 
charges to the Head of the Institution at the time of vacating the 
quarters . The meter readings as on the date of vacating siiall then 
be taken by the Head of Institution and the amount yet to be paid 
by the occupant worked out, The occupant shali pay such amount 


12 


to the Head of Institution at the time of surrendering the key and 
obtain proper receipt. This shall be credited to " deposits” in the 
P. D.Account of the Institution and payment of electric current and 
water charges, when the bills are actually received , arranged by 
the Head of the Institution by drawing from deposit amount. 
Balance, if any, will be refunded to the occupant after settling all , 
liabilities. If the amount recovered is found inadequate, the 
difference shall be met from the advance rent available in deposit 
and that too is insufficient the required amount shall be met initially 
by the Head of the Institution from Government fund and subsequ 
ently recovered from the occupants as detailed in rule 30 . 

18. The demand statement for recovery of rent should normally 
be prepared by the head of the office by the 20th of each month . If 
due to any reason , the demand statement is not prepared in time, 
the head of office shall effect the recovery based on the previous 
month s demand statement. 

( 1 ) It wolud be incumbent upon the head of the office to recover 
the amount as shown in the demand statement. If there is any real 
error or mistake in the demand made, it may be pointed cut after 
effecting the recovery and got adjusted in the subsequent demands. 

(2 ) The advance rent paid by the occupant shall not normally 
be adjusted towards rent due. It shall be refunded only on the 
basis of a certificate from the Head of the Institution concerned to 
the effect that no liabilities are outstanding from the occupant, after 
the quarters are vacated and key and other articles handed over . 

19. If any occupant, contravenes any of the provision of these 
rules or conditions in the agreement executed by him /her it shall be 
lawful for the Head of the Institution to cancel the allotment of 
quarters made to him her . A memo to this effect will be sent to the 
occupant setting forth the irregularities noticed , by the Head of the 
Institution and the occupant shall vacate the quarters, within 30 
days of the date of such mema, 

20. If the occupant fails to vacate the quarters within the time 
allowed by rule 19 , the Head of the Institutions shall inform the 
occupant about the irregularities committed by him her and get 
his her statement as a reply. The occupant shall be bound to submit 
his her reply within 7 days of the receipt of the show cause notice. 
If the reply is not found to be satisfactory, the Head of Institution 
shall serve the notice of eviction to the party . 

( 1 ) The Head of the Institution shall issue orders of eviction to 
the occupant as expeditiously as practicable and direct him to vacate 
the quarters within a week and produce clearnce certificate to that 
effect. If the occupant fails to vacate the quarters and produce the 
certificate within a week the Head of Institution shall issue orders 


13 


& 


placing the occupant under suspension with immediate effect or if he 
is not competent to place the officer under suspension he shall 
immediately take action to get the orders of the authority competent 
to do as and in any case the suspension orders shall take effect from 
the date after a week on which the eviction orders are served to the 
occupant. 

( 2) The employees under suspension shall be reinstated in 
service only on receipt of a clearance certificate from the Head of the 
Institution in charge of the quarters. He she shall be deemed to 
have been reinstated in service on the day following the day of the 
production of certificate . 
Note : (i) The period of suspension may be regularised by the 

authority competent, as eligible leave, excepting casual 
leave . 
(ii) If the occupant fails to vacate quarters with 
reasonable time evenafter placing him her , under suspen 
sion , action shall be taken to evict the occupant under 
the provisions of the Kerala Pubilc Buildings (Eviction 
cf Unauthorised Occupants ) Act, 1968 and the rules 
made thereunder . 

(iii) For the period of stay in the quarters beyond the 
date permitted by rule 19, rent at three times the 

normal rates will be recovered from the occupant. 
21. An appeal shall lie against the orders of eviction before the 
Director of Techanical Education and Government in the ( Higher 
Education Department ) . But filing of such an appeal shall not in 
any way empower the occupant to continue to occupy the quarters 
unless permission to do so in specifically granted by the Appellate 
Authority . If , however, the Director of Techanical Education the 
State Government after examining the facts of the case, set aside 
the orders of eviction appellant shall be eligible for registration and 
shall be allotted quarters falling vacant ie., in perference to all other 
registered applicants. 

22. If any occupant commits voilation of any of these rules and 
the cancellation of allotment and eviction from quarters , is not con 
sidered necessary , the Heads of Institutions shall initiate disciplinary 
proceedings against the occupant, in consultation with the Director 
of Technical Education , wherever necessary . The Heads of 
Institution shall initiate disciplinary proceedings as per the Kerala 
Civil Servants ( Classification , Control and Appeal) Rules, and award 
appropriate punishment if the occupant is found guilty . 
Note : ( 1 ) Warning is not treated as punishment. If the 

charges are provel one of the punishments specified in 
the K.C.S. ( C.C. & A ) Rulcs shall be awarded . 


14 


( 2 ) The Head of the Institution shall intimate the 
Director of Techanical Education about the outcome of 
the disciplinary proceedings and the final finding of the 

case in due course. 
23 . ( 1 ) The quarters shall not on any account be sublet, nor 
shall it be shared with anybody without the written permission 
of the Head of Institution . Even in case where such permission 
was granted , the liablity for payment of rent shall rest on the person 
to whom the quarters is allotted . 

( 2 ) In the event of the death of either the husband or wife 
(allottee of the quarters ) occupying the same quarters with the 
family ie ., husband and wife with children , the quarters shall be 
allotted to the surviving person (husband or wife ) in case he/she 
is also a member of the staff of the Institution . 

( 3 ) In the event of the transfer of either the husband or 
wife (allottee of the quarters) occupying the quarters with family , 
ie., husband and wife with children , the quarters may be reallotted to 
the other person (husband or wife ) occupying the same quarters in 
case he/she is also a staff member of the Institution and continue to 
work in the same Institution evenafter the transfer of the allottee. 

24. ( 1) The occupant shall not make any additions , alterations 
or repairs to the quarters or any of the installations therein , even at 
their own cost. Repairs or replacements required shall immediately 
be brought to the notice of the Heads of the Institutions for further 
action . Electrical wiring, pipes laid etc., shall not be interfered or 
tampered with . 

( 2 ) Additional amenities like installation of telephones , 
ceiling fans, etc., at the cost of the occupant, can be provided only 
under written permission of the Head of Institution . 
Note : The occupants may put up at their cost temporary fence 

within the area of the compound if any set apart for 
the quarters, for protecting garden or other vegetable 
cultivation from stray animals for which no special 
sanction is required . But this may be done in consulta 

tion with the Head of the Institution concerned . 
( 3 ) The occupant while living in quarters shall conduct himself 
decently without in any way causing inconvenience to the neighbours . 
Unnecessary quarrels , state of drunkenness or other undesirable 
behaviour shall be treated as misconduct and such occupant shall be 
liable to be evicted on such grounds alone, without notice . 

25 . (1 ) Without prejudice to any of the provisions contained in 
these rules or any other rules prescribed in this behalf, the Govern 
ment shall have the right : (a ) to refuse to register any particular 


15 
applicant ; or (b ) to terminate any allotment already made, without 
assigning any reasons and in the latter case , the occupant shall 
forthwith vacate the quarters and surrender possession as laid down 
in these rules. No appeal shall be entertained on such orders. 

These rules are issued in supersession of all previous orders , if 
any, issued in the matter , and the occupants who have been allotted 
quarters already, in pursuance of the rules then in force, shall be 
deemed to be governed by these rules hereafter . 

These rules shall be supplementary to the relevant rules in 
Kerala Financial Code, the Kerala Public Works Account Code and 
the Kerala Public Works Department Code and subject to the 
general rules regarding fixation of rent of Government quarters 
framed by Government in this behalf from time to time. 

26. The occupants shall keep the Head of Institution informed 
of changes in their pay, station , address and such other events like 
transfer, promotion etc., during the period of their stay in the 
quarters . 
Note : When the occupant proceeds on leave , tour etc., for more 

than two weeks and leaves his headquarters with family 
the fact shall be intimated to the Had of the Institution , 

in writing. 
27. The occupant may reside in the quarters without his her 
family or keep it locked up for a maximum period of 3 months for 
l easons like hospitalisation or other treatments, conception , vacation 
etc. This period may be extended upto six months in exceptional 
cases ; with the permission of the Head of the Institution in writing. 
But if such instances exceed six months the quarters will be vacated 
und the key and other articles properly handed over, as provided 
in these rules. Failure to do so shall entail eviction as well as depart. 
mental disciplinary proceedings. 

28. Liabilities, if any, left by an occupant while vacating the 
quarters shall be assessed and finalised within seven days of the date 
of vacating . If the amount of liability is more than the advance 
vient available with the Head of the Institution a special demand 
shall be issued immediately . The amount as per the special demand 
shall be recovered in cash from the pay of the occupant and remitted to 
the Head of the Institution by the Drawing Officer. If the occupant 
has left on transfer , the amount due shall be intimated to the 
new head of office in writing. But if such instances exceed six 
months the quarters shall be vacated and the key and other articles 
properly handed over , as provided in these rules. Failure to do so 
shall entail eviction as well as departmental disciplinary proceedings . 


16 


Note : Postal commission for remitting the amount recovered 

by M.O. to the Head of the Institution shall be met from 

the office contingencies of the Head of the Office concerned. 
29. The applicant , allottees and occupants as well as past occu 
pants of the quarters , shall be liable to be governed by these rules 
as well as any other rules and conditions prescribed by Government 
in this behalf from time to time. 

30. Notwithstanding anything contained in the above said 
provisions, any amount due to Government from any occupant or 
past occupant, shall also be recovered from his her properties 
movable or immovable under the Revenue Recovery Act for the time 
being in force, as though they are arrears of land revenue, or in any 
other manner as the Government may deem fit . 

31. Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules , the 
Government shall be competent to terminate the allotment without 
assigning any reason whatsoever and the occupant shall , thereupon , 
vacate the building within one month of the receipt of notice of 
termination . 

32. Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules , Govern 
ment may in deserving case , dispense with or relax the provisions 
of any rule to such extent or subject to such conditions as they may 
deem fit . 


APPENDIX I 


Classification of Residential Quarters under (for the Staff of 
Government) Government Engineering Colleges , Polytechnics 

and other Technical Institutions 


Grade of Officers 


Type No. 


II 
111 
IV 
V 
VI 
VII 


Officers coming under the pay scale of 

Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 


Rs. 
196-265 to 215-370 
230-385 to 275-525 
330-575 
345-580 to 405-660 
495-835 to 510-995 
710-1200 
1050-1550 


Note : The existing classifications of quarters attached to 

Engineering Colleges , Polytechnics and other technical 
institutions under this department will be reclassified 
and given type Nos. according to the grading given above. 


17 


APPENDIX II 


Application for the Allotment of Government Servants Quarters 
under Government Engineering Colleges, Polytechinics and 
other Government Institutions or Director of Technical 

Education as the case may be 


1 . Name of Officer 
2 . Date of birth 
3 . Whether belongs to Scheduled Caste or 

Scheduled Tribes 
4 . Office or Department in which employed 
5. Pay and Scale of pay 
6. Designation 
7. Permanent or Acting 
8 . Years of service to retire with date of 

retirement on superannuation 
9. Permanent home address (with Village, 

Taluk and District ) 
10. Whether married 
11 . wheiner wifejnusband is employed and if so 

particulars regarding name, designation , 

place of employment, pay and scale of pay 
12 . Whether the applicant owns a house or 

other residential buildings within his her 
headquarters within a radius of 15 K.m. 
from his her once either in his ler own 
name or in the name of his/her husband 
wife or in the name of his her unmarried 
schs or daughters whether inherited 
or purchased or obtained otherwise 
including that under any hire purchase 

scheme. 
13 . intended to live with family or alone 
14. Living alone or with family at present 
15. Priority for allotment of quarters if any 


Place : 
Date : 


Signature of the Applicant. 


G 1970 /MC. 


18 


DECLARATION 
I declare that the statements made above are true. I agree to 
abide by the rules and conditions for the occupation of the quarters 
now in force and also such terms and conditions and rules which the 
Government may prescribe from time to time in that regard . 


Signature . 


For the use in the Office of the Head of the Institution 


Received on : 
Registered as No. 
Type of quarters vide folio No. 
Priority verified and entered in Register ( Item No.) 
Section Clerk 

Superintendent 
Date of issue of allotment 

order 
Date of cancellation of 

Registration 
No. of quarters allotted . 


Officer 


APPENDIX III [vide Rule 6 ( 3) ] 
Register of Application Received for Allotment of Quarters 
at Government Engineering Colleges , Polytechnics etc., 

(For . ... Type Quarters ) 


Date of receipt 


SI. 
No. 


Nameof 
applicant 


Designation Office and 
Department to which attached 

( 4 ) 


Pay and scale 

of pay 


( 2 ) 


(3 ) 


(5 ) 


Nature 


If cancelled before Date of allotment 
allotment and its 

of quarter 
reasons 


No. of quarters 

allotted 


Type of quarters 

allotted 


(6 ) 


(7 ) 


(8 ) 


(9 ) 


( 10 ) 


ls 


Date of 
occupation 


Date of 
vacating 


Date of 
birth 


Dale of 
relirement 


Details of 
rent collected 


If the wife husband of 
The applicant is a Gioel. 
Servant, give full details 
as furnished in the 

Application 


( 11) 


(12) 


( 13 ) 


(141) 


( 15 ) 


(16 ) 


Rewarks 


List of equipment fittings, furniture etc. 
Available in the quarters 

(17 ) 


( 18 ) 


APPENDIX IV 


Proceedings of the Head of the Institution, Government. 


No ... dated ... 

Shri Smt. 
Sub : Allotment ofGovernment Quarters at Government. 

ordered . 
Ref: Your application dated ... 
One . .type quarters (No. 

. ) is allotted 
to you . You are requested to occupy the quarters within seven days 
from this date. In any case , your liability for payment of rent for 
the quarters will commence from that date . 

If however , you do not wish to occupy the quarters, you may inti. 
mate the fact to this office within three days from this cate, in which 
case these orders will be cancelled . 

You may contact the undersigned inimediately and take charge 
of the key and the quarters with all articles provided clicrein . The 

G.1270 |MC. 


lşase agreement required to be executed , may also be executed before 
actually occupying the quarters . 
An advance rent of Rs. 

.is payable by you . This 
may.be paid in the office or remitted into the Treasury under the 
head " 077F Technical Education (b ) Other receipts— (2 ) Other 
items” and the receipted chalan produced on receipt of which only 
the key of the quarters will be handed over to you . 

You are also informed that you have to make yourself conversant 
with the provisions of " Rules for allotment and occupation of 
Government servants quarters attached to the Government Engi 
neering Colleges, Polytechnics and other Technical Institutions 1976 " 
as any infringement of the conditions stipulated therein or any of the 
conditions in the lease agreement to be executed by you will make 
you liable for the punishments provided in the rule , as well as 
departmental disciplinary action . 

Head of Institution , 

Government. 
To 
Shri Smt. 

APPENDIX V 

Agreement 
This lease deed executed on this the . 

day of 
one thousand and nine hundred and .. 

between Shri Smt. 
.son /daughter of 

of 
....House 

Village 

Taluk 
District now employed 

.at 
( hereinafter called " the lessee" of one part and the Governor of 
Kerala ( hereinafter called " the lessor " ) of the other part : 

Witness as follows: 

In consideration of the rent herein reserved and the convenants 
on the part of the Lessee hereinafter contained the Lessor doth hereby 
demise upto the Lessee the building No.. 

.in Block 
No. 

.with appurtenances thereto attached to the . 
.more particularly mentioned and described in the schedule 
hereto subject to the provisio as contained in the Rules for the 
allotment and cccupation of Government servants quarters attached to 
Government Engineering Colleges , Polytechaics and other Technical 
Institutions 1976 (hereinafter called the Rules) and subject to the 
terms and conditions herein cortained . 
1. The lessee hereby convenants with the lessor as follows: --- 

( i) The lessee shall during the continuance of the lease pay a 
monthly rent which will be the standard rent fixed for the aforesaid 
building or 7.5 % of the pay of the Leser whichever is lower of the 
amount fixed in accordance with the rules in force from time to time: 


21 


Provided when both the husband and wife occupying the quarters 
are Government servants , rent will be calculated on the basis of the 
pay of the person drawing the higher pay. Payment of rent or 
arrears thereof shall be made by short drawals in the Salary bills 
of the Lessee. 

( ii ) The lessee shall not sublet the building or accommodate 
persons other than bonafide dependants whom the lessee is expected 
to maintain . 

(iii ) The lessee when vacating the building shall hand over 
charge of the building to the officer appointed by the Executive 
Engineer for this purpose . 

( iv ) The Lessee who intends to vacate the building shall , 
except in cases of sudden transfer intimate the fact to the Head of 
Institution in charge of the building at least thirty days before the 
date which the Lessee intends to vacate the building, failing which 
the Lessee shall be liable to pay rent for the period of thirty days 
from the date of vacating or till the date of occupation of the building 
by another person , whichever is earlier . 

( v ) The Lessee when transferred shall vacate the building 
within one month of the date of transfer of the Lessee . If any exten 
sion of time is required the lessee shall apply for sanction sufficiently 
early as contemplated the rules in the matter and obtain the required 
sanction . The Lessce shall pay rent in such cases at ille rates and 
in the manner laid down in the rules in this regard . 

(vi) The Lessee shall pay all dues by way of water charges 
current charges and cleaning charges, etc. except property tax due 
to the local authority concerned . 

(vii) The Lessee shall keep the building in neat condition and 
shall be liable for any damage caused to the building and in the instal 
lations therein and shall not make an addition or structure aller 
ation to the building or the installations therein . 

( viii) The lessee shall abide by the rules for the allotment 
and occupation of Government servants quarters in Kerala now in 
force and also such terms and conditions contained in the ruleswich 
Government may prescribed from time to time in that regard wich 
shall form part of th s deed as if incorporated herein . 

(ix ) In case the Lessee commits breach of all or any of the 
terms and conditions and rules herein mentioned , the Lessee shall 
cease to have any right of occupation of the quarters and the lessce 
shall thereupon take possession of the quarters and the lessee shall not 
on any account object to such taking over of the quarters by the lessor 
and shall vacate the quarters forthwith . 


( x ) Notwithstanding anything herein contained , the lessor 
shall be competent to terminate the lease without assigning any 
reason whatsoever and the lessee shall, thereupon vacate the building 
within one month of the receipt of the notice of such terminations. 
2 . The Lessor hereby convenants with the lessee as follows : 

The lessec regularly paying the rent hereby reserved and agreed 
to be paid and on performing and observing all the convenants and 
stipulations herein contained to be observed on the lessees part shall 
peacefully and quietly hold and enjoy the leasehold quarters and 
premises attached thereto during the currency of the lease without 
any interruption by the lessor expect as otherwise provided for 
herein . The lessor shall carry out the annual maintenance such a 
white washing minor repairs etc. of the lease hold at lessor s cost. 

3. The lessee further agrees that all amounts found due from 
him on account of damages caused to the building and installations 
during his stay or by way of arrears of rent or any other dues for 
which he becomes liable to the lessor under this deed shall be 
recovered by the lessor by deduction from the lessor s salary bills . 

4. Without prejudice to the rights of the lessor under the proceed 
ing causes all sums found due to lessor (Government) under or by 
virtue of this deed shall be recovered from the lessee and his pro 
perties movable and immovable under the provisions of the Revenue 
Recovery Act for the time being in force as though they are arrears 
of land revenue and in such other manner as the lessor may deem 
fit . 

5. The stamp duty for this deed shall be borne by the lessor. 


SCHEDULE 


(Here enter full details of Lease hold ) 
In witness whereof Shri Smt... 

.the Lessee 
and Shri . 

and on behalf of the Governor of 
Kerala have hereunto sct their hands the day and year first above 
written , 
Signed by the Lessee Shri . 
In the presence of witness 1 . 

2 . 
Signed by Shri 

1 . 
2 . 


23 


APPENDIX VI 
Mode of Calculation of capital cost [vide rule 15 (4 ) ] 
1. For the purpose of assessment of standard rent, the capital 
cost of residential including subsidiary buildings owned by Govern 
ment shall include the cost or value of sanitary, was supply and 
electric installations and fittings but, exclude the co..i or value of 
site (including expenditure on its preparations ) and shall be either. 

( a ) The cost of acquiring or constructing the residence 
including subsidiary buildings and acquisition or construction or 
when this is not known . 

(b ) The present value of the residence (building ). 
2. The cost of restoration or special repairs shall not be added 
to carital cost or present value unless such restoration or repairs 
and to accommodation or involve replacement of the existing type 
of work by work of a more extensive character . 

3. : When the standard rent of a residence has been calculated 
minor additions and alterations may be made without the rent of 
the residence being increased , subject to the foliowing conditions 
namely : 

( a ) the total cost of such additions and alterations shall not 
exceed 5 per cent of the capital cost on which the standard rent was 
last calculated , and 

( b ) such additions and alterations shall be made within five 
years after the last calculation of the standard rent. 

4 . 
cost of a residence exceeds by more than 5 per cent the capital cost 
on which the standard rent was last calculated , the standard rent 
shall be recalculated with effect from the 1st April, next following 
or from the date upon which a new tenant becomes liable for the 
payment of rent whichever is earlier. 

* 
(b ) Subject to the provisions of sub -rule 4 (a ), the standard 
rent of a residence shall be recalculated on the expiry of five years 
from the date of the last calculation , and the recalculation shall take 
effect from such other date as the Government may direct. 

5. For the purpose mentioned in Rule 1 above in this appendis , 
expenditure incurred on such works as 

( a ) Raising , levelling, and dressing sites ; 
1. (b ) Construction of revetnent, retaining walls , compound 
walls , fences and gates ; 


w 


( e ) Storm water drainage; and 

(d ) approach roads and paths within the compound shall be 
regarded as expenditure on the preparation of a site and the follow 
ing shall be regarded as fittings namely : 

( i) Electric Fittings : 

( a ) Lamps of all kinds ( excluding bulbs ) . 
( b ) Fans, including switches and regulators, the hire 

of which is not charged separately . 
( c ) Electric heaters and water heaters which are fixed 

to walls, floor or ceiling ; and 
( d ) Electric lights. - 
( ii ) Sanitary and water supply fittings: 
(a ) The capital cost of howsoever calculated , shall not 

take into consideration . 
( i) any charge on account of establishment and 

tools and plant other than such as were actually 
charged direct to this work in cases in which 
the residence has been constructed by Govern 

ment; or 
( ii) in other cases , the estimated amount of such 

charges . 
(b ) The capital cost should be the work outlay 

(i. e . including departmental charges ) which should 
include direct charges on the work i.e. the expendi 
ture on the work charged , establishment and 
purchase of tools and plant debited direct to the 
work and freight and storage charges on the stores 
issued to or used in the work . 


7. For the purposes mentioned in Rule 1 ( b ) above , the present 
value of a residence , including is subsidiary buildings and of the 
site on which it stands, shall be estimated by a P. W.D. Officer of 
rank not lower than an Executive Engineer nominated in that behalf 
by the competent authority viz ., the Government or the Chief 
Engineer or the District Collector who shall determine the present 
value of the residence and of the site. 

8. When a garage is provided for a particular residence (whether 
within or without the compound or premises ) its capital cost should 
be, included in the capital cost of the residence for the purpose of 
assessment of standard rent. Where this condition is not fulfilled , 
rent for the garage should be charged separately. 


9. Government may , for reasons which shculd be recorded make 
suitable reduction in the capital cost of a residence for the purpose of 
calculating the standard rent : 

( a ) When a portion of the residence is set aside by the 
officer to whom the residence is allotted for the sole purpose of 
reception of official and non -official visitors visiting him or 
business , or 

( b ) When it is satisfied that the capital cost as determined 
under the above rules would be greatly in excess of the proper value 
of the accommodation provided . 

( c ) But no such reduction shall be made where a portion of 
the residence is being used by an officer for doing his work . 

10. Government may for reasons which should be recorded , 
authorise a revaluation of all residences of a specified class or cla 
within a specified area to be conducted as under the prescribed rulez 
and may revise the capital cost of any or all such residences on the 
basis of such revaluation . 


r 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 . 
PART I 

GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Labour & Housing ( A ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 
G. O (Rt.) No. 1502/79/L & H. Dated , Trivandrum , 25th October 1979 . 

The award of the Labour Court, Quilon in respect of the dispute 
between the Managing Partner , P. Sundaram & Company, Head Office, 
Quilon and their workmen represented by _ ( 1) Secretary , Kottarakkara 
Taluk Tile Factory Workers Union , Puthoor . (2 ) The President, Quilon 
District Tile Workers Uaion , Puthoor. ( 3 ) The Secretary , Quilon 
District Tile Workers Congress , INTUC Office, Quilon received by 
Government on 28-9-1979 is hereby published under section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central Act XIV of 1947) . 


By order of the Governor, 
P. M. SRELVASUDEVA MENON , 

Deputy Secretary. 


In the Labour Court, Quilom 
Dated this the 10th day of September, 1979 

Present : 
SHRI ALFRED DANIEL , B. A., B. L., 

Prosiding Officer 

In 
INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE No. 53/77 

Between 
The Managing Partner, P. Sundaram & Company, Head Oflice, Quilon 

And 
The workmen of the above establishment represented by ( 1) The Secretary, 
Kottarakkara Taluk Tile Factory Workers Union , Puthoor 
(2 ) President, Quilon District Tile Workers Union , Puthoor 
( 3) Secretary , Quilon District Tile Workers Congress, 

INTUC Office , Quilon . 
Representations : 
Sri K. Velappan Pillai, 

For the Management. 
Advocate , Quilon . 
Sri N. Raman Pillai, 

For the 1st Union . 
Advocate , Quilon . 
G. A. 461/L . 


) 


AWARD 


This is an industrial dispute referred to this Court for adjudication by 
the Kerala Government by Order No. G.O.(Rt.) 652 / 77 /LBR dated 2-6-1971. 
The issue referred is the following : 

“ Dismissal of Sarvasree S. Gopala Pillai ( Card No. 8 ), M. John 

(Card No. 7), T. Baby John (Card No. 10) and P. M. John (Card 

No. 11 ) ” . 
The first Union has filed a claim statement and the Management has 
filed their written statement. I need not narrate the pleadings of the parties 
here because today when the case was called on for hearing, the learned 
advocate appearing on either side have endorsed on the order of reference 
as follows: 

“ The dispute has been settled out of Court and payments made and 

received . No subsisting dispute. The award may be passed in the 

above line . 
I therefore pass an award holding that there is no subsisting dispute 
between the parties for adjudication by this Court, the dispute having been 
settled out of court. 

This award will come into force 30 days after its publication of the same 
in the Government Gazette . 


ALFRED DANIEL , 
Presiding Officer . 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 . 
PART I 

GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Labour & Housing ( A ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 
G. O. (Rt.) No. 1505 /79/L & H. Dated, Trivandrum , 25th October 1979. 

The award of the Labour Court, Quilon in respect of the dispute 
between Sri T. S. Venkiteswaran , Proprietor , Union Engineering Comp..ny , 
Kottamukku , Quilon and their workmen represented by the General 
Secretary , Quilon District Motor and Mechanical Workers Union (CITU ), 
G.H.S. Junction , Quilon received by Government on 28-9-1979 is hereby 
published under section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central Act 
XIV of 1947 ). 


By order of the Governor , 
P. M. SREEVASUDEVA MENON , 

Deputy Secretary 


In the Labour Court, Quilon 
Dated this the 11th day of September, 1979 

Present : 
SHRI ALFRED DANIEL , B. A., B. L., 

Presiding Officer 

In 
INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE No. 87/78 

Between 
Sri T. S. Venkiteswaran , Proprietor, Union Engineering Company, 

Kottamukku , Quilon . 

And 
The workman of the above concern represented by the General Secretary , 
Quilon District Motor and Mechanical Workers Union ( CITU ), 

G.H.S. Junction , Quilon . 
G.A. 464 /L . 


N 


For the Management 


Representations: 
Sri K.Raman Pillai, 

Advocate , 

Quilon . 
Sri M.Rajagopalan Nair , 

Advocate, 
Quilon . 


For the Union 


AWARD 
This is an industrial dispute referred to this Court for adjudication by 
the Kerala Government by order No.G.O. (Rt.) 1137/78 dated 17-7-1978 . 
The issue referred is the following : 

“ Reduction in wages of Sri K. Thankappan , Blacksmith " . 

The Union has filed a claim statement saying: Sri K. Thankappan was 
a Blacksmith under the opposite party and he was being paid Rs. 12.50 
per day and Rs. 75 consolidated on every month . The opposite party has 
illegally reduced the wages due to him from 1-1-1977 by paying at the rate 
of Rs. 12.50 per day only . A series of conferences were held by the District 
Labour Officer and the Deputy Labour Commissioner for settling the dispute , 
but they failed due to the adamant stand taken by the Management. The 
reduction in wages to the tune of Rs. 75 per month made by the manage 
ment from 1-1-1977 is illegal and unjust. From 14-10-1977 he was also 
denied employment, for which separate conciliation proceedings are 
going on . 

Inspite of innumerable opportunities granted to the opposite party he 
has not filed his written statement. Finally on 10-9-1979 the opposite party 
and his counsel were absent and he has not filed written statement also . So 
the case was adjourned for ex -parte evidence to 11-9-1979. Today when the 
case was taken up the opposite party applied for time for adducing evidence . 
That application was rejected by me as the opposite party has not filed his 
written statement so far. The Union and its counsel were also absent and 
no ex - parte evidence was adduced . 

In the above circumstance I am inclined to believe that the parties have 
come to some settlement and that must be the reason why they have not 
turned up; the advocates in the absence of their parties could not do any 
thing better. 

I therefore find that there is now no industrial dispute pending between 
the parties for adjudication by this Court and pass an award accordingly . 

This award will come into force 30 days after publication of the same 
in the Government Gazette . 

ALFRED DANIEL, 
Presiding Officer 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980. 
PART I 

GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 


Labour and Housing (A ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 
G. O. (Rt.) No. 1507179/ L & H. Dated , Trivandrum , 25th October 1979 

The award of the Labour Court, Quilon in respect of the dispute 
between the Managing Partner , P. Sundaran & Company , Tiles & Bricks, 
Puthoor P.O. Kottarakkara and their workmen represented by the Secretary , 
Quilon District Tile Workers Union , Puthoor P. O., Kottarakkara received 
by Government on 28-9-1979 is hereby published under section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central Act XIV of 1947 ) . 


By order of the Governor , 
P. M. SREEVASUDEVA MENOx , 

Deputy Secretary. 


la the Labour Court, Quilon 
Dated this the 11th day of September, 1979 

Present : 
SHRI ALFRED DANIEL , B. A., B. L. 

Presiding Officer 

In 
INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE No. 6 of 1979 

Betrdeen 
The Managing Partner, P. Sundaran & Company, Tiles & Bricks , 

Puthoor P. O., Kottarakkara 

And 
The workman of the above company represented by the Secretary, 
Quilon District Tile Workers Union , Puthoor P. O., 

Kottarakkara 
Representations: 
Sri K. Velappan Pillai, 

For the Management. 
Advocate , Quilon . 
Sri M. Rajagopalan Nair 

For the Union . 
Advocate , Quilon . 
1.A. 466 / L 


L 


2 


AWARD 


This is an industrial dispute referred to this court for adjudication by 
the Kerala Government by Order No. G. O. (Rt.) 143 /79/L & H dated 
23-1-1979. The issue referred is the following: 
“ Alternative employment offered to Sri V. Karunakaran Pillai, 

Kiln worker " 
Parties entered appearance and the case has been pending for the claim 
statement of the Union from 27-2-1979 till this date . So far claim state 
ment has not been filed by the Union , eventhough innumerable opportuni 
ties were granted for the purpose . Moreover on 3-7-1979 the Union s 
counsel submitted that hewas filing claim statement and on that submission 
the case was adjourned for written statement to 7-8-1979. On 7-8-1979 it 
came to my notice that the claim statement was not filed as submitted . 
Still on a petition filed by the advocate I again adjourned the case for 
claim statement to 27-8-1979 . On that day also the Union s counsel 
requested for time and I adjourned the case with an order of “ No further 
time to 10-9-1979 for filing claim statement . On 10-9-1979 also the 
Union s counsel submitted that he was filing claim statement on that day. 

Since the Union s counsel did not file claim statement as submitted by 
him on 3-7-1979, I verified today whether he has filed claim statement 
at least on 10-9-1979 as per his submission . This time also he has made a 
false submission . In these circumstances I think the Union has no rightful 
claim to press and its counsel ignorant of that fact has been making 
irresponsible submission just for getting adjournments and protracting the 
case . 

I therefore find that the Union has no rightful claim and pass an 
award accordingly . 

This award will come into force 30 days after publication of the same 
in the Government Gazette . 


ALFRED DANIEL , 
Presiding Officer . 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980. 
PART 1 

GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Labour & Housing ( A ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 
G. O. (Rt.) No. 1503179 /L & H . Dated , Trivandrum , 25th October 1979 

The award of the Labour Court, Quilon in respect of the dispute 
between Sri Azad Rahim , Malika Veedu, Near Kallupalam , Quilon 
and their workmen represented by the Secretary , Kollam Jilla Plan ation 
Workers Union (CITU ), Chadayamangalam received y Government on 
28-9-1979 is hereby published under section 17 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 (Central Act, XIV of 1947) . 


By order of theGovernor , 
P. M. SREEVASUDEVA MENON , 

Deputy Secretary . 


In the Labour Court, Quilon 
(Dated this the 11th day of September 1979) 

Present: 
SERT ALFRED DANIEL , B ; A. B. L., 

Prosiding Officer 

In 
INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE No. 24/1979 

Between 
Shri Azad Rahim , Malika Veedu, Near Kallupalam , Quilon . 

And 
The workmen under the above said person represented by the Secretary , 
Kollam Jilla Plantation Workers Union (CITU ), Chadayamangalam . 
Representations : 
Sri K. Ananthasivam , 

S. Sainedeen , 
K. Ramachandran Nair , 

For Sri Azad Rahim . 
G. Haridas 

Advocates, Quilon . 
Sri M. Rajagopalan Nair, 

For the Union . 
Advocate, Quilon . 
G. A. 462 /L . 


> ) 


9 ) 


> 


2 


AWARD 
This is an industrial dispute referred to this court for adjudication by 
the Kerala Government by Order No. G. O. (Rt.) 893 /79/ L & H dated 
20-6-1979. The issue referred is the following : 

“ Denial of employment to M /s. Asanarukunju , Habeebulla Rawther, 

Bahuleyan and Abdul Rasheed . 
Parties entered appearance and from 3-7-1979 the case was adjourned 
to 8-8-1979 for filing claim statement on the request of the Union . 
8-8-1979, the Union s counsel requested for further time and the case was 
adjourn.d for claim statement to this day. Today claim statement was not 
filed and neither the Union nor its counsel was present. 

I therefore hold that the Union has no rightful claim to press before 
this Court and pass an award accordingly . 

This award will come into force 30 days after publication of the same 
in the GovernmentGazette . 


On 


ALFRED DANIEL , 
Presiding Officer. 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 . 
PART I 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 


Labour & Housing (A ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 
G. O. (Rt.) No. 1452/79 /L & H . Dated, Trivandrum , 17th October 1979 . 

The award of the Labour Court, Ernakulam in respect of the dispute 
between the Partner , Sree Kaleeswari Tile Works (West) P.O. Pudukad , 
Trichur District and their workmen represented by the Secretary , Trichur 
Mekhala Ołtu Thozhilali Union (HMS) Pudukad Division, P.O. 
Pudukad received by Government on 6-10-1979 is hereby published under 
seetion 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central Act XIV of 1947). 


By order of the Governor , 
P. M. SREEVASUDEVA MENON , 

Deputy Secretary. 


In the Labour Court , Ernakulam 
Dated this the 28th day of September , 1979 

Present : 
SARI N. SUKUMARAN , B. SC ., B. L., 

Presiding Officer 

In 
INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE No. 71 of 1979 
(Old No. I. D. 35 of 1978 ) 

Between 
The Partner, Sree Kaleeswari Tile Works (West ), P. O. Pudukad, 

Trichur District 

And 
The workmen of the above concern represented by the Secretary , 
Trichur Mekhala Ottu Thozhilali Union (HMS), Pudukad Division , 

P.O. Pudukad 
Representation : 

Shri M. Venugopalan , 
Advocate, 

For Management. 
Trichur. 
G.A. 457/ L . 


2 


AWARD 


In this reference made by Government as per G.O. (Rt.) No. 760 /78 / 
L & H dated 3-5-1978 the two issues involved are the following:-- 

" (i) Lay off of 56 workers from 12-9-1977 . 

(ii) Denial of employment to 10 Casual Workers." 
The reference was made to the Labour Court , Calicut and later it was 
transferred to this Court by Government and re- filed in the present number . 
The Union made its appearance before the Calicut Court through Advocate 
Shri M.Ramachandran . After the transfer to this Court the case was 
posted for the claim statement of the Union . But no claim statement was 
filed in spite of half a dozen adjournments for that purpose . On verification 
it was seen that Shri M. Ramachandran who entered appearance for the 
Union did not file his Vakalath orauthorisation . Therefore I issued a fresh 
registered notice to the Union for their appearance to prosecute the case . 
That notice was received by the Union . Even then the Union did not 
make its appearance. 

So it was set ex parte and the case proceeded in its 
absence. 

2. The Management filed an affidavit sworn to by the Partner of the 
establishment stating that the Union has no valid claims against the Manage 
ment. In the circumstances of this case I accept the affidavit and hold 
that no industrial dispute subsists between the parties. An award is passed 
accordingly . 


Moolamattom , 
28-9-1979 . 


N. SUKUMARAN , 
Presiding Officer. 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980. 
PART I 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 


Labour & Housing (A ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 


G. O. (Rt.) No. 1143/79/L & H . 

Dated Trivandrum , 8th August 1979 . 
The award of the Labour Court, Kozhikode in respect of the dispute 
between the Managing Director, Baliapatam Tile Works Limited , 
Pappinisseri and their workm :n represented by the Secretary , Baliapatam 
Tii Union , (C.I.T P.O. 

pinisseri received by Government 
on 6-8-1979 is hereby published under section 17 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 (Central Act XIV of 1947 ). 

By order of the Governor , 

S. GOPALAN , 
Deputy Secretary. 


In the Labour Court, Kozhikode, Kerala State 
Dated this the 17th day of July , 1979 

Present 
SHRI T.M. VISHNU NA MBISSAN , B. A. B. L., 

Presiding Officer 

In 
INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE No. 17177 

Between 


TheManaging Director, Baliapatam Tile Works Limited , Pappinisseri. 

And 
The Secretary , Baliapatam Tile Workers Unio. , (CITU ), P.O. Pappinisseri. 
Representations: 
M.Karunakaran Nambiar, 

For the Management. 
Advocate, Cannanore. 
M. P. Govindan Na nbiar, 

For the Union . 
Advocate , Cannanore . 


GA.398 / V . 


2 


AWARD 
1. This industrial dispute between the above parties was referred to 
this court for adjud.cation regarding the deai.l of e.noby.n :nt t (1 ) Sci 
Pola Kunhiramin , (2) Sci M. Srealhira 1, ( 3) Sri B Sreedharan , (4 ) 
Sri P. V. Kunhiraman , (5 ) Sri C. Chandran and (6 ) Sri Varath Kunhi 
ramın , with effect from 27: 2-1976 as pec G. O. Rt. No. 413 /77 /LBR dated 
28-4-1977 . The case wis tako i on file an I notices issued to 

both par.ies. 
They entered appearance and filed statements. 

2 . In the claim statement filed by the Union it is contended that 
during the days of emergency the workers in the reference were taken into 
custody on 6-1-1976 from the fac o y premises by the police and were reman 
ded to custody as per the order of the Chief Judicial vlagistrate, Tellicherry, 
andwere taken to Central Jail, Cannanore. While in jail they sent leave 
applications to the management. The management replied stating that they 
will be granted leave fron 6-1-1976 to 13-1-1976 and asked them to report 
for duty on 14-1-1976 and informed them that if they fail to report for duty 
within 8 days from 14-1-1976 , they will loose their lien . The union also 
wrute a letter to the management specifying the circumstances under which 
the workers were detained in prison and informed the management that 
union was taking steps to get them released and immediately after their 
release, they will report for duty . On 23-1-1976 the minagement issued 
another notice to the workers informing that they have lost their lien as they 
failed to report for duty before 22-1-1976 . On coming to know of the 
same, the wokers sent communication to the management stating that they 
could not report for duty within the time specified by th :managemeat for 
reasons beyond their control and th :y should be granted leave for the period 
they were in jail. But the management was apatheti : to their request. The 
workers were released from Jail on 26-2-1976 and they reported for duty on 
27-2-1976 but were denied work . After the liſting of the emergency the 
workers were taken back on 1-6-1971 as per the direction of the Cntral 
Government, but the workers were not paid the wages from 27-2-1976 to 
1-6-1977 during which period they were denied work illegally . They are 
entitled to wages for that period. Since the workers have been taken back , 
the relief for reinstatement is unnecessary . They pray for an award directing 
the management to give wages to the workers for the period from 27-2-1976 
to 31-5-1977 , both inclusive . 

3. Themanagement in the written statement contended that the case 
of denial of work from 27-2-1976 to 1-6-1977 is not correct because th y were 
not in employment of themanagement immediately prior to that period and 
there was no subsisting contract of employment, as the workers forfeit d their 
lien on employment since th :v overstayed the leave and 8 days thereafter 
till 23-1-1976 . On 13-1-1976 the management received a letter dated 
9-1-1976 from the Secretary or the Baliapatam Tile Workers Union stating 
that the 6 workers were arrested by the police on 6-1-1976 are remanded 
by the court to custody . The management granted leave to the workers 
for 7 days from 6-1-1976 to 13-1-1976 and requested the union to direct the 


workers to report for duty on 14-1-1976 . The union was further informed 
that if the workers continued to be absent and failcd to report for duty 
within 8 days and gave satisfactory explanation to the management about 
their in ability to return before the expiry of the leave, they would loose their 
lien on their appointment. On 15-1-1976 the management received individual 
application for leave stating that they h.ve been remanded to judicial custody 
till 20-1-1976 . The management informed that they have been gran ed leave 
up to 13-1-1976 and that they have to report for duty on 14-1-1976 . Tney 
were further inform :d that if they overstayed the leve granted beyond 8 clays 
without returning for daty and explain their inability to report for duty 
satisfactory they would loose their lien on employment. As the workers 
overstayed the sanctioned leave and 8 days thereafter and failed to report 
for duty on 22-1-1976 they lost their lien on employment. Tna : fact was 
communicted to the workers on 23-1-1976 . On 28-1-1976 the minagement 
received a letter dated 23-1-1976 informing that the judicial Migistrate had 
extended the period of rcmand from 21-1-1976 withoutmentioning the period 
for which chey were again remanded . The management had no knowledge 
when the workers will be released or whether they would be released at all . 
Hence the benefits due to them were remitted on 28-1-1976 by money order. 
On 17-2-1976 the workers informed the management that they still continued 
to be in custody and requesting the management to grant them leave till they 
were released from jail. As the lien on the employment have been terminated 
under Clause 10 of the Standing Orders, the question of sanctioning any leave 
did not arise . The workers approached themanagement for emplo mont on 
27-2-1976 after their release from jail; but as new persons were recruited in 
their place, they could not be given reinstatement. The management denies 
the allegation of unreasonable and illegal denial of work . The concerned 
wrkers are not workmzn within the meining of Industrial Disputes Act. 

There is no subsisting industrial dispute . The workers 
legally entitled tv wages from 27-2-76 to 1-6 - 77 as they were not in cmploy 
ment during that period . The management is not guilty of any unfair 
labour practices. The workers are not entitled to the wages as claimud . 

4. In the rejoinder filed by the Union reiterating their claim and 
denying the avermcnts in the written statcment of the management. 


are 


not 


5. The issue referred to this court for adjudication is denial of cmploy . 
ment to the six workers with eflict from 27-2-1976 . 


6. Issue : It is admitted that the above workers have becn rcinstated 
with effect from 1-6-1977 as per a direction from the Central Government and 
as such in the claim statement of the union it is stated that the claim for 
reinstatcment has become unnecessary . Therefore , the question whether 
the workers are entitled to reinstatement docs not arisc for consideration at 
present. But the que tion that remains to be considered is whether the 
workers are cntitled to back -wages from 27-2-1976 the date on which they 
were denied employment till their reinstatement on 1-6-1977 . 


4 


7. That the workers are the employees of the management is admitted . 
The cåse of the union is that the six workers were arrested by the Balia . 
patam Police on 6-1-1976 from the factory premises_and were remanded 
to judicial custody by the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Tellicherry . It would 
appear tl at the union made an application for leave to the management on 
behalf of the six workers. Exhibit W1 is the letter by the management to 
the union nforming that the workers had been granted leave for 7 days from 
6-1-1976 to 13-1-1976 and requiring the workers to report for work on 
14-1-1976 . Exhibit W2 is another letter by the management dated 15-1 1976 
informing the union that the workers did not report for duy on 14-1-1976 , 
that they have not been granted leave from 14-1-1976 and requiring them to 
report for duty within 8 days from 14-1-1976 and give sati factory explana 
tion for their absence. They were further informed that if they failed to do 
so , they will loose their lien with effect from 23-1-1976 . Exbibit W3 is a litter 
by the union dated 29-1-1976 in reply to exhibit Wi informing the manage 
ment that the workers are in jail and that their absence is not wilful but for 
resons beyond their control and requesting the management not to take any 
stips against them . 

Exhibit W4 is the notice issued by the management 
in pursuance of Exhibit W2 and exhibit W5 is a similar notice published . 
Exhibit W7 is a letter dated 9-2-1976 by the first worker in the reference 
informing the management that he has been remanded to custody by the 
Chief Judicial Magistrate and that his absence is for reasons beyond his 
control and informing the management that he will report for duty immedi 
ately after his release from jail and further requesting that his absence 
during the period he was in Jail be treated as leave . 

In this 

written 
statement it is admitted that similar leave applications had been sent by the 
three workers. Exhibit W6 is the letter by the union to the District Labour 
Officer Cannanore , complaining about the denial of work to the six workers 
on 27-2-1976 by themariagement when they reported for duty after the 
release from Jail on 26-2-1976 . 
8. The of the workers is that they 

released 
from jail only on 26-2-1976 and immedi tely 

the next 
day they reported for work , but were denied work by the management. 
The management 

does not deny 

the fact that the workers 
repored for duty on 27-2-1976 . That they were not given work is also 
admiited . But the case for the management is that they have ceased to be 
the employees under tle man gement and as such the fact that they were 
not given work will not amount to denial of work so as to entitle them to 
claim wages from 27-2-1976 to 31-5-1977 both inclusive . The management 
relies on clause 10 (2) f exhibit M1which is the Standing Orders which 
s ates tht" il the workmin re nains absent beyond the period of leave 
originally granted or subsequently extended, he shall loose his lien on his 
appointment unl ss (1 ) be retu ns within 8 days of the expiry of he leave 
and (2 ) gives explanation to the sa isfaction of the auihority granting leave 
of his inability to return before the expiry of the leave. In case the work 
man looses his lien on the appointment, he shall be entitled to be kept on 
the substitute list .” The case of the management is that the workers were 
gian.cd leave till 13-1-1976 and were required to report for duty on 


casc 


were 
on 


5 


14-1-1976 as per exhibit Wi and since they did not report for duty they 
were further informed as per exibit W2 to report for duty within 3 days 
from 14-1-1976 and give satisfactory explanation for their ab ence . Since 
the workers did not report fo duty on 22-1-1976 , the management contends 
that they lost their lien as per the above clause . The absence of the 
workers was nou due to their default or negligence , but for re sons beyond 
their control as could be seen from exhibits W1 to W7, in that they were 
taken in to custody by the police on 6-1-1976 and were remanded in to 
Judicial custody by the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Tellicherry . They were 
released only on 26-2-1976 . As per exhibit W3 the union had informed the 
management the circumstances under which they could not report for duty . 
As per exhibit W7 the first worker had requested for grant of leave of his 
absence till he is released from jail. Receipt of similar applicantions by 
three workers is admitted . In spite of that the management proceded on 
the basis of clause 10 (2 ) of the standing Orders and declared that the 
workers had lost their lien . The absence of the workers was for reasons 
beyond their control and unconnected with any controversy between the 
Labour and the Management. It is also admitted that the workers 
reported for duty on 27-2-1976 but were not given any work . That the 
workers were reinstated with effect from 1-6-1977 has been found by me 
earlier. In view of the circumstances under which the workers were prev 
ented from reporting for duty as required by themanagement, the provisions 
in clause 10 (2 ) of exhibit Mi cannot be held to be applicable to the facts 
of this case so as to hold that the workers ! :: their lien in the employment. 
It is not the case of the management that the workers h.ve no leave to their 
credit either with pay or without pay till 27-2-1976 . Assuch the action of the 
management in declaring that the workers lost their lien amounts to unfair 
labour practices. Therefore, the denial of einployment to the workers on 
27-2-1976 and thereafter till 1-6-1977 cannot be held to be proper and justi 
fiable . Therefore , the workers are entitled to their wages from 27-2-1976 
to 31-5-1977 both inclusive. For the above reasons I make the award hold 
ing that the question of reinstatement does not arisc at present and that the 
workers are entitled to their wages from 27-2-1976 to 31-5-1977 both 
inclusive . 


9. This award will come into force 30 days after publication of the 
same in the Official Gazette. 


Dictated to the Confidential Assistant and transcribed by him , revised 
and corrected by me on the 17th day of July , 1979 


T. M. VISHNU NAMBISSAX, 

Presiding Officer , 
Labour Court, Kozhikode. 


6 


Appendix 
Witnesses examined on the side of the Management 

Nil . 
Documents marked on the siúe of the Management: 

Ex. Mi- True copy of standing orders for workmen .. 
Witnesses examind on the side of the Union : 

WW1- Sri E. Sreedharan , Kalliasseri, Cannanore 
Documents marked on the side of the Union : 

Ex . W1 Letter dated 13-1-1976 by management to the Union . 
Ex, W2 15-1-1976 

to Pola Kunhirama 
Ex. W3 

29-1-1976 by Union to the Management . 
Ex . W4 Notice dated 23-1-1976 by the Management to employees . 
Ex , W5 23-1-1976 

to C. Chandran and 

another 
Ex . W6 Letter dated 9-2-1976 by Pola Kunhiraman to the 

Management 
Ex . W7 

17-3-1976 ly 


2 


99 


3 


9 


22 


22 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980. 
PART 1 

GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Labour & Housing (A ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 
G.O. (Rt.) No. 1451/79/ L & H . Dated , Trivandrum , 17th October 1979 . 

The award of the Labour Court, Kozhikode in respect of the dispute 
between the Secretary , Ayalur, Service Co -operative Society Ltd. No. 507, 
Ayalur P. O., Palghat District and Shri M. P. Vasudevan Nair slo 
Kunjuamma, Moolayil Puthenveettil, Ayalur Village Ayalur P. O. received 
by Government on 6-10-1979 is hereby published under section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central Act XIV of 1947) . 


By order of the Governor, 
P. M. SREEVASUDEVA MENON , 

Deputy Secretary . 


In the Labour Court, Kozhikode, Kerala State 
Dated this the 18th day of September, 1979 

Present : 
Sur T. M. VISHNU NAMBISSAN , B. A., B. L., 

Prosiding Officer 

In 
I.D.No. 46/78 

Between 
The Secretary , Ayalur Service Co -operative Society Ltd. No. 507 , 

Ayalur P. O., Palghat District. 

And 
Sri M.P. Vasudevan Nair, s/o Kunjuamma, Moolayil Puthenvccttil, 

Ayalur Village, Ayalur P. O. 
Representation : 
Sri V. P. Sudhakaran , 
Advocate , 

For the Management. 
Palghat. 
Sri P. A. Chandra Sekhara Menon , 
Advocate , 

For the InkMAX 
Palghat. 
G.A.456 /L . 


2 


AWARD 
1. This industrial dispute between the above parties was referred to 
this court for adjudication regarding the dismissal of Sri M. P. Vasudevan 
Nair , Puthenveettil, Ayalur Village, Ayalur as per G.O. Rt. No. 802 /78 /L & H 
dated 10-5-1978 . The case was taken on file and notices issued to both 
parties. They entered appearance and filed statements. 

2 . It is not necessary to state the contention of the parties as the 
matter was settled between them . On 26-7-1979 after the case was part 
heard , the worker and the management filed a compromise as per which it 
is stated that the worker had rece ved from the management all his dues in 
full and final settlement of his claim and that he has no further claim against 
the management. The parties wanted the compromise to be recorded and 
an award be passed on that basis. In view of the compromise, which is 
annexed , I hold that the dispute between the parties have been settled as per 
the terms of the compromise and that the worker has no further claims 
against the management. 

3. This award will come into force 30 days after publication of the 
same in the Official Gazette . 

Dictated to the Confidential Assistant and transcribed by him , revised , 
and corrected by me on the 18th day of September, 1979 . 

T. M. VISHNU NAMBISSAN , 

Presiding Officer , 

Labour Court, Kozhikode. 
ANNEXURE 
കോഴിക്കോട് ലേബർ കോടതി മുമ്പാകെ 

I.D. 46/78 
വാസുദേവൻ നായർ - വർക്കർ 
സെകട്ടറി , അയിലൂർ സർവ്വീസ് കോ -ഓപ്പറേറ്റീവ് ബാങ്ക് തൊഴിലുടമ . 
മേൽ നമ്പറിൽ വർക്കറും, തൊഴിലുടമയും കൂടി ബോധിപ്പിക്കുന്നരാജി. 

മേൽ നമ്പർ കാര്യം മദ്ധ്യസ്ഥൻമാർ മുഖാന്തിരം സംസാരിച്ച് ഒത്തു 
തീർന്നിരിക്കുന്നു . വർക്കർക്ക് തൊഴിലുടമയിൽനിന്നും കിട്ടേണ്ടതായ സകല 
വിധ ആനുകൂല്യങ്ങളും കിട്ടി ബോദ്ധ്യപ്പെട്ടിരിക്കയാൽ വർക്കർ തൊഴിലുടമ 
യുടെ കീഴിലുളള ജോലി ഉപേക്ഷിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നു . വർക്കർക്ക് മേലാൽ തൊഴി 
ലുടമയുടെ കീഴിൽ യാതൊരുവിധ Claim ഉം ഇല്ലെന്നുംഇതിനാൽ നിശ്ചയിച്ച് 
സമ്മതിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നു . ഈ രാജി റിക്കാർഡാക്കി രാജി ക്കനുസരിച്ച് ഒരു Award 
പാസ്സാക്കുവാൻ ഇരുകൂട്ടരും സമ്മതിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നു . 

അതുകൊണ്ട് ബഹു : കോടതിയുടെദയവുണ്ടായി ഈ രാജി റിക്കാർഡാക്കി 
രാജിക്കനുസരിച്ച് ഒരു Award പാസ്സാക്കുവാൻ അപേക്ഷയുളളതാകുന്നു . 

എന്ന്1979 ജൂലായ് 23 -ാം തീയതി. 
1 . M. P. Vasudevan Nair 

(Sd . 
2 . Secretary . 

(Sd .) 
3 . Advocate for the Petitioner 

(Sd . ) 
4 . Advocate for the Management (Sd .) 


Kerala Gazette No. i dated 1st January 1980 . 
PART I 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 


Labour and Social Welfare ( A ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 


No. Ms. 123/ 79/ L & SW . 

Dated, Trivandrum , 13th December 1979 . 
In supersession of Notification (i) No. 16913/A2/74 /LBR dated the 
13th November 1975 published in the Kerala Gazette No. 46 dated the 
25th November , 1975 , the Government of Kerala hereby specify the 
territorial jurisdiction of the Deputy Labour Commissioners as follows: 


SL. 
No. 


Designation and 
Headquarters 

(2 ) 


Territorial 
jurisdiction 

(3 ) 


( 1 ) 


Whole of the State 

of Kerala . 


1. Deputy Labour Commissioner , 

Office of the Labour Commissioner , 

Trivandrum . 
2. Deputy Labour Commissioner , 

Trivandrum . 


3. Deputy Labour Commissioner , 

Ernakulam . 


4. Deputy Labour Commissioner , 

Kottayam . 


Revenue Districts of 

Trivandrum and 

Quilon . 
Revenue Districts of 

Alleppey and 

Ernakulam . 
Revenue Districts of 

Kottayam and 

Idukki. 
Revenue Districts of 

Palghat, Trichur 

and Malappuram . 
Revenue Districts of 

Kozhikode and 
Cannanore . 


5. Deputy Labour Commissioner , 

Trichur . 


6. Deputy Labour Commissioner , 

Calicut. 


By order of the Governor, 

C. P. NAIR , 
Special Secretary . 

[p.T.O. 


G. 2114 


2 


Explanatory Note 
( This is not part of the notification , but is intended to indicato its 
general purport). 

The Government have decided to convert the existing three posts of 
Commissioners for Workmens Compensation into those of Deputy Labour 
Commissioners and also to utilise the services of the 

Deputy Labour 
Commissioners in five centres for the purpose of quasi -judicial functions 
under various Labour Laws. It is also decided that the services of Deputy 
Labour Commissioners at the Office of the Labour Commissioner , 
Trivandrum will be utilised for the functions of State-wide jurisdiction . 
This notification is intended to achieve this purpose . 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 . 
PART I 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Local Administration and Social Welfare (C ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 
G.O.MS. No. 244 /78 /LA & SWD. Daled , Trivandrum , 19th Octoba 1979 . 

The fo lowing draft of an amendment to the Kerala Panchayats (Budget ) 
Rules, 1963 issued in G. O. MS. 176 /63/DD . and published as S. R O. 
No. 259/63 in the Kerala Gazette No 11 dated the 12th March , 1963 which 
the Government of Kerala propose to make in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by section 129 of the Kerala Panchayats Act , 1960 ( 32 of 1960), is 
hereby published for general information as required by subsection (2) of 
section 130 of the said Act. 

Notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken up for 
consideration on or after 31-1-1980 and that any objection or sugyestion 
that may be received in respect of said draſt from any person before the date 
specified above will be considered by Government. Objections or suggestions, 
if any, shall be addressed to the Secretary to Government, Local Administra . 
tion and Social Welfare Department, Vikas Bhavan , Trivandrum . 


AMENDMENT 
1. Short title and commencement:-(1 ) These rules may be called the 
Kerala Panchayats ( Budget) Amendment Rules, 1979 . 

(2) They shall come into force at once . 
2. In the Kerala Panchayats (Budget) Rules, 1963, in Form A (ii) 
under the heading A GENERAL ACCOUNT in category II REALISATION 
UNDER SPECIAL ACTS 

(i) The existing item (f) shall be renumbered as (h ) 

(ii) Before item (h ) as so renumbered ; the following items shall be 
inserted namely: 

“ (f) Additional tax on entertainment 

(8 ) Surcharge on show tax " . 


By order of the Governor , 

M. DANDAPANI, 
Spoolal Secretary 

[ P.T.O.) 


G. 8152 


2 


Explanatory Note 
( This is not part of the notification , but is intended to indicato its 
general purport ). 

The Government have decided to convert the existing thrce posts of 
Commissioners for Workmens Compinsation into those of Deputy Labour 
Commissioners and also to utilise the services of the 

Deputy Labour 
Commissioners in five centres for the purpose of quasi -judicial functions 
under various Labour Laws. It is also decided that the services of Deputy 
Labour Commissioners at the Office of the Labour Commissioner , 
Trivandrum will be utilised for the functions of State- wide jurisdiction . 
This notification is intended to achieve this purpose . 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 . 
PARTI 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Local Administration and Social Welfare Department 

NOTIFICATION 


No MS. 250 /79 /LA & SWD . Dated , Trivandrum , 30th October 1979 . 

The following draft of an amendment to the Kerala Panchayats Pub ic 
and Private Markets) Rules, 1964 issued in G.O.MS. 318 /64/DD . dated the 
30th April 1964 and published as S.R.O. 140/64 in the Kerala Gazette No. 18 
dated the 5th May , 1964 which the Government of Kerala propose to make 
in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 85 , 86 , 87 and 129 of Kerala 
Panchayats Act, 1960 (32 of 1960), is hereby pub ished for general informa 
tion as required by subsection (2 ) of section 130 of the said Act. 

Notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken up for considera 
tion on or after 22-1-1980 and that any objection or suggestion that may 
be received in respect of the said draft from any person before tho 
date specified above will be considered by Government. 

Objections and suggestions, if any, shall be addressed to the Secretary 
to Government, Local Administration and Social Welfare Department, 
Vikas Bhavan , Trivandrum . 


AMENDMENT 
1. ( 1) These Rules may be called the Kerala Panchayats (Public and 
Private Markets) Amendment Rules, 1979. 

( 2) They shall come into force at once . 

2. In the Kerala Panchayat (Public and Private Markets ) Rules, 1964 
in rule 5 to sub -rule ( 1) the following proviso shall be added as second 
proviso, namely: 

“ Provided further that the Panchayat may or if directed by Govern 

ment or Director, shall reserve and lease out a minimuin 3 % of 
the total number of Market Stalls for the disabled like the 
blind , the deaf and those who are orthopaedically handicapped 
to a severe degree. Such leases shall be made without public 
auction . 

By order of the Governor, 

M. DANDAPANI, 

Special Secrolary . 
G. 2187 

Inv. 0.1 


2 


Explanatory Note 
( This does not form part of the notification but is intended to indicato 
its general purport) . 

Government of India have suggested that all the Local Bodies in the 
State may be requested to reserve a certain number of shopsor kiosks in the 
market for the disabled , like the blind, the deaf and those who are 
orthopaedically handicapped to a severe degree. Government on consulta 
tion with the Director of Panchayats has accepted the suggestion and decided 
to make such a provision in the Kerala Panchayats (Public ard Private 
Markets) Rules, 1964 . 

This notification is intended to achieve the above object. 


n 


Kerala Gasstte No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 
PART 3 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 

Abstract 
KERALA DESTITUTE PENSION SCHEME - AMENDMENT TO THE KERALA 

DESTITUTE PENSION SCHEME RULES, 1973– ISSUED . 


LOCAL ADMINISTRATION & SOCIAL WELFARE E ) 

DEPARTMENT 
G. O. (P) No. 279/79/LA & SWD. 

Dated , Trivandrom , 27th November 1979. 


Roed : -1. G. O. ( P ) 1415 /73 /LA & SWD. dated 3-8-1973 . 

2. G. O. ( P ) 246 /78 /LA & SWD. dated 24-10-1978 . 
3 . Letter No. PA3./D/DPS/77-78/621 darrd 2-10-1977 from the 

Accountant General. 
4 . Letter No. FB (A ) 4-10570 /78 /L . Dis. rated 27-2-1979 from the 

Secretary , Board of Revenue (LR ) 
5. Letter No. Tech . I(i)-12762 /79 /L . Dis . dated 15-5-1979 from 

the Director of Treasuries. 


ONDER 


Governinent are pleased to issue the following notification . 

NOTIFICATION 
Government of Kerala hereby make the followiig ameniments to the 
Rules for the Kerala Dcstitute Persion Scheme issued in li. 0. (P ) 
No. 1415 /73 /LA & SWD . dated 3-8-1973 as subsequently amcuded , name : 

AMENDMENT 
I. For the existing paragraph 9 of Part A of the Accounting 
Procedure in the Annexure , the following shall Le substituted : 

" 9. (a ) As soon after the expiry of the month as possible, a monthly 
settlement should be effected with the treasuiics in respect of ih transactinis 
with them , of the entire District relating to this scheme. 

G. 2126 


2 


(b ) For payments into treasuries, consolidated receipts should be 
prepared for the whole remittance made at cach treasury , and sent to the 
Treasury Oficer for signature, in the form given below : 


CONSOLIDATED TREASURY RECEIPT 


Received from the District Collector .. 

.a sum of 
Rs..... ..in words ). 

..for credit to Social Security 
Scheme remittances during Rs....... (in figures) 

..certified that 
the amount for which C. T. R. is furnished agrees with the amouat credited 
in the Treasury Accounts except for the difference of Rs.... 
which is explained below : 
( i) Rs... 

.difference shown in the previous month 
since adjusted in the Treasury Accounts in this month . 
( ü ) Rs.. 

..under reconciliation and will be adjusted 
in the next months accounts. 


Dated ..... 


19 


District Treasury Officer . 


( iii) For cheques drawn , the pass books, duly completed for the 
month , should be obtained from the Treasury Officers with he certificates 
of issues from reasuries which are prepared in the form reproduc d below , 
and their agreement with cash books of the District should be effec ed in 
Part C - 11 . Schedule of monthly settlement with Treaauries which also gives 
details of the differences. 

“ I hereby certify that the total issuesmade from this treasury on cheques 
drawn against the account of Sri 

District Collector 
during .. .197 ..amount to R3. 

(in words) . 
Note : —The pass book or list of cheques cashed is written up in om 

T. R. 79 of the Kerala Treasury Code, Volume II by a ubordinate 
other than the one who handles the cash . It should remain in the 
Taluk Office as an account record of the office and sent to the 
treasury periodically on fixed dates (at weekiv intervals in the case 
of the treasury at the District headquarters) to be written up . The 
identity and amounts of the cheques entered as cashed should be 
examined at the earliest opportunity, the pass book being initialled 

(and dated ) by the Tahsildar in token of the check . 
II. The following shall be added as para 11 to the Annexure : 

“ 11. A form for schedule of monthly settlement with treasuries is 
given in Part C ” . 


3 


III. The following schedule shall be added after Part 3 of the 
Annexure . 

PART - C 
Schedule of monthly settlement with Treasuries 

(Referred to in Para 9 of Annexure ) 
I CASH REMITTED AND ACKNOWLEDGED 

Amount 
1 . Difference brought over as per line 5 of last 

months memo 
2 . Cash remittel during the month as per 

Schedule of römittances into treasuries 
3. Total 
4. Amounts acknowledged by the trearuries as per 

consolidated receipts attached 
5 . * Difference 

By order of the Governor , 

C. P. NAIR , 

Special Secretary . 
То 

The Secretary , Board of Revenue , Trivandrum 
All District Collectors 
The Accountant General, (Táis issues with the concurrence of Finance 

Department) 
The Finance Department (vide U. O.Note No. 4676/ Dev . 3/79 / Fin . 

dated 3-7-1979) 
The Office Copy/Stock File. 


* (1) Full details of chalan should be furnished either oa the back of 

the schedule or in a separate statement attached to the schedule . 
(2 ) Action taken to rectify mis classification should be furnished . 


Kerala Ganotto No. I dated 1st Jannary 1980 
PART I 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Local Administration and Social Welfaro (G ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 


No. 46500 /G2/78 /LA & SWD . Dated , Trivandrum , 4th December 1979. 

The following draft of certain amendments to the Greater Cochin 
Development Authority Rules, 1977 issued in G.O. (Ms) No. 61/77/LA & 
SWD dated the 25th February, 1977 and published as S.R.O. No. 185/77 
in the Kerala Gazette Extrao dinary No. 128 , dated the 25th February, 
1977, which the Government of Kerala propose to make in exercise of tho 
powers conferred by subsection ( 1) of section 53 of the Town Planning Act, 
1108 (IV of 1108) read with section 53F thereof and subsection ( 1) of section 
54 of theMadras Town Planning Act, 1920 (Madras Act VII of 1920 ) read 
with section 54F thereof is hereby published for general information as 
required by section 42 of the Town Planning (Act, 1108 (IV of 1108 ) and 
section 44 , of the Madras Town Planning Act, 1920 (Madras Act VII of 
1920) . 

Notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken up for considera 
tion on or after 20-1-1980 . Any person who may be affected by the proposed 
amendments may subinit bis objection or suggestion in writing to the Special 
Secretary, Local Administration and Social Welfare Department, Secretariat , 
Trivandrum , on or before the date specified above. 


DRAFT AMENDMENTS 
1 . Short title and commencement.- ( 1) These rules may be called the 
Greater Cochin Development Authority (Amendment) Rules, 1979 . 

(2) They shall come into force at once. 
2. In the Greater Cochin Development Authority Rules , 1977, 

(i) in rule 32, for the sentence beginning with the words " save as 
otherwise provided " and ending with the words " employees of the Authority " , 
the following shall be substituted , namely : 

" Save as otherwise provided in these rules the provisions of Parts 1 and 
II of the Kerala Service Rules, the Kerala State and Subordinate Service 
Rules, 1958 , the Kerala Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) 
Rules, 1960, the Kerala Government Servants Conduct Rules, 1960 and the 
Kerala Government Servants Application for Posts (Private employment and 
Government Service) Rules, 1958 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the 
employees of the authority " . 

G. 2166 


2 


(ii) in rule 44 , after sub -rule ( 1), the following sub -ruls shall be 
added , namely: 

(IA ) The Executive Engineer of the Authority shall have a permanent 
advance of five hundred rupees to meet petty expenses. An imprest register 
in the prescribed form shall be maintained to note the transactions relating to 
the amount. 

(iii ) to rule 50 , the following proviso shall be added , namely : 
" Provided that in the case of any work , the total cost of which does not 
exceed twenty thousand rupees, the Chief Engineer of the Authority may, 
if he is satisfied that the said work is to be executed immediately, and that 
the delay caused by the execution of the same after inviting tenders is detri 
mental to the interest of the Authority , waive invitation of tender and 
entrust the work on direct negotiation with one contractor or two or more 
contractors." 

(iv ) in rule 54 , after the existing proviso the following further proviss 
shall be added , namely : 

" Provided further that in the case of any purchaso of stores or articles , 
the total price of which does not exceed five thousand rupees, the Chief 
Engineer of the Authority may , if he is satisfied that the said purchase is to 
bo made immediately and that the delay caused by the purchase of the same 
after inviting quotations is detrimental to the interests of the [Authority , waive 
invitation of quotations and make the purchase on direct negotiation with 
one supplier or two or more suppliers on condition that the Chief Engineer 
should explain in the order sanctioning the purchase, the reasons for makin 
the purchase without inviting quotations . 


By order of the Governor, 

M , DANDAPANI, 
Special Secretary 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 
PARTI 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 


Public Relations ( C ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 


No. 35361/ E1 /79/PR . 

Dated , Trivandrum , 12th December 1979 
Feature films, Documentary films and Children s films in Malayalam in 
black and white and colour (35 mm ) censored during the calendar year 1979 
are invited from producers as per conditions laid down in the rules relating to 
Kerala State Award for Malayalam Films for selecting films, artists , 
technicians, etc., for State Awards for Malayalam Films 1979. Application 
in the prescribed form along with the print of the films and other relevant 
materials should be furnished to the Director of Public Relations on or before 
30-1-1980 . The application forms and rules can be had on request in writing 
from the Director of Public Relations on payment of Re. 1 either in cash or 
by money order. 


KERALA STATE AWARDS FOR MALAYALAM FILMS 1979 


RULES 


I. (1 ) These rules shall be called rules for the Kerala State Awards for 
Malayalam Films 

(2 ) . The object of these awards is to encourage the production of films 
in Malayalam Tofhigh aesthetic and technical standard and of social, educa 
tional and cultural values. 

(3 ) The following categories of awards will be available under these 
rules : 


(i) Feature Films in Malayalam 
Award for the best feature Cash award of Rs: 20,000 , a replica and a 
film 

certificate to the Producer and Rs. 10,000, 

a replica and a certificate to the Director 
Award for the second best A cash award of Rs. 10,000 and a certificate 
feature film 

to the Producer and Rs. 5,000 and a 

certificate to the Director 
Award for excellence in A cash award of Rs. 10,000 , a replica and a 
Direction 

certificate 
G. 2136 . 


2 


Awal or the best Aetor 


of the year 


Award for the best Actress 


of the year 


A cash award of Rs 5,000, a replica and a 

certificate 
A cash award of Rs. 5,000 , a replica and a 

certificate 
A cash award of Rs. 3,000 , a replica and a 

certificate 


A cash award of Rs. 3,000 , a replica and a 

certificate 


Award for the Best 

supporting role of the 

year (male) 
Award for the Best 

supporting role of the 

year (female ) 
Award for th . Best child 

Artiste of the year 
Award for the Best story 

writer of the year 
Award for excellence in 

Cinematography 


Award for excellence in 

Cinematography 

(Colour 
Awa d fir the Best screen 

play of the year 
Award for the best lyrist 


A cash award of Rs. 2,000 , a replica and a 

certificate 
A cash award of Rs. 3,000, a replica and a 

certificate 
A cash award of Rs. 3,000 , a replica and a 

certificate to the best Cameraman of a 

Black and White film 
A cash award of Rs. 3,000 , a replica and a 

certificate to the best Cameraman of a 

colour film 
A cash award of Rs. 3,000, a replica and a 

certificate 
A cash award of Rs. 3,000 , a replica and a 

certificate 
A cash award of Rs. 3,000 , a replica and a 

certificate 
A cash award of Rs. 3,000, a replica and a 

certificate 


of the year 


Award for excellence in 

Music Direction 
Award for the Best Male 

Flay -back Singer of 


the year 


Award for the Best Female 

Play- back Singer of 


A cash award of Rs. 3,000, a replica and a 

certificate 


the year 


Award for the Best Film A cash award of Rs. 3,000, a replica and a 
Editor of the year 

certificate 
Award for excellence in A cash award of Rs. 3,000 , a replica and a 
Art Direction 

certificate 
Award for the Best sjund A cash award of Rs. 3,000, a replica and a 
Recordist of the year certificate 

(ü ) Documentary Films 
Award for the best docu A cash award of Rs. 3,000 , a replica and a 
mentary film (on 

certificate to the Producer and Rs. 2,000, 
subjects relating to 

a replica and a certificate to the Director 
Kerala in Malayalam 
and in other languages ) 


(b ) Children s Films in Malayalam 
Award for the best 

A cash award of Rs. 3,000 , a replica and a 
children s film 

certificate to the Producer and Rs. 2,000 , 

a replica and a certificate to the Director 

(iv ) Special Award 
1. A special award for the A cash award of Rs. 10,000 and a certificate 
best Malayalam film 

to the Producer of the film 
with aesthetic quality 
and popular appeal 
Explanatory Note - The terms “ Producer” , “ Director " , " Cinemato 

grapher " , " Actor” , “ Actress ” , “ Child Artiste" , “ Story Writer " , 

Screen Play Writer " , " Lyric Writer " , “ Music Director" , 
“ Play -Back -Singer ” , “ Film Éditor " and " Art Director " used 
in these rules will be construed as referring to the “ Producer" . 
" Director " , “ Cameraman " , " Actor" , " Actress" , " Story 
Writer . « Screen Play Writer" , " Lyric Writer" , " Music 
Director” , " Play -Back -Singer" , " Film Editor" " Art Director" , 
and sound Recorder as the case may be, as given in the credit 
titles of the film entered in the competition duly certified by 
the Central Board of Film Censors. The term " Music" in 
the case of Music Direction will include back -ground music as 
well as songs, if any. The term Child -Artiste refers to one 

under sixteen years of age. 
II . ( 1) There will be a Judging Committee (hereinafter called the 
Committee) to examine and select the best films, artistes and technicians 
who are to be given awards. 

(2 ) “ The Committee will consist of seven members, including the 
Chairman . The term of the non -official members of the Committee will be 
three months from the date of constitution of the Committee. The Director 
of Public Relations or his nominee from the Public Relations Department 
will represent the Government in the Committee and will function as the 
member Secretary of the Committee. Th : other six noa -olicial members 
including the Chairman , to be nominated by the Government, will be 
persons who are distinguished in the field of inotion picture, art, culture, 
literature or aesthetics" . 

( 3 ) If the Chairman of the Judging Committee finds it inconvenient 
to attend two or more meetings of the committee , the committee will have 
the power to clcct a working Chairman. 

(4). The quorum of the Committee shall be more than hall the 
number of members. 

(5 ) No person who has a share in the production or distribution of 
any film entered for the awards shall be a member of the Committee . 
(6 ) The awards will be decided by the Government 

on the 
recoinmendation of the Judging Committee. The Committee will make 
their recommendations to Government. 


. 


(7) , The decisionsof the Government of Kerala will be final in 
respect of the Awards and of interpretation of these Rules and no appeal 
shall lie against them . 

(8 ) A person who participates in the Kerala State Awards for 
Malayalam Films under these rules shall be deemed to have accepted these 
rules. 

III . The Director of Public Relations will arrange the screening of 
films at a public or private theatre for the Judges to examine the quality of 
films and the efficiency of artistes , producers, directors and technicians. 
The Director of Public Relations, may, at his discretion utilise the screening 
of films for the Judging Committee as a film festival and allow public entry 
into the theatre on a nominal charge. The entrants to the Award contest 
shall have no right to raise objections to the exhibition of films in public by 
ticket system . 

IV . (1 ) Entries for the awards will be invited every year by the Director 
of Public Relations by a date to be specified in a notification to be published 
in the Kerala Government Gazette . 

(2 ) Only films in respect of which censor s certificate were issued in 
the calendar year will be eligible for entry. 

(3) The application for entry shall be in the prescribed form which 
will be sent to the interested parties by the Director of Public Relations on 
request in writing. The price of each application form will be Re. 1 which 
may be remitted by money order or paid in cash . 

(4) . The applications for entry will be addressed to the Director of 
Public Relations and should reach him before the time and date specified 
in the notification . 

(5) Separate application should be sent in respect of cach entry. 

(6 ) The following , should also be sent to the Director, Public 
Relations simultaneously with the forwarding of the application : 

(a ) A new print of the film entered . 
(b ) Twenty copies of the songs. Names of the Music Director , 

Lyric Writer and Playback artiste should be mentioned in 

the case of each song separately . 
(c) 20 copies of the synopsis of the story . The synopsis should 

remain within about two typed pages. 
(d ) 20 typed copies of the caste mentioning the respective role 

against cach Artists. 
(c) 20 still photograghs pertaining to the scenes and characters in 

the film . 
(f) 20 copies of brochure, if avy, and 20 copies of posters if 

available, 


5 


(g ) Two certified copies of the credits as they appear in the 

film . 
(h ) Certified true copy of Certificate izsued by the Central Board 

of Film Censon . 
(7 ) All transport costs on the consignment and return of the film 
and publicity materials will be payable by the entrant. 

(8) All films will be submitted at the owner s risk and while the 
Government of Kerala will take all reasonable care of the film submitted , 
it will not be responsible for any loss or damage to the film while in their 
possession . 

( 9) The decision of the Government of Kerala whether a film is 
eligible to be entered for the awards and whether any film is a feature film , 
children s film or documentary film , and whether a film comes under the 
category of “ completely shot in Kerala " for the purpose of entry for the 
awards will be final. 

(10) Entries entered in one category sball not be eligible for entry in 
another category . 

( 11) No award will be given in a category for which the number of 
entries received is less than two. 

(12 ) If a particular award is given to more than one person the cash 
award will be shared equally by them . 

( 13 ) A film which is a dubbed version or a retake or any adaptation 
of a film produced in another language which has won an award for films 
shall not be considered for the awards under these rules. The entrant shall 
certify that the film is not a dubbed version or retake or adaptation as 
aforesaid . 

(14) The Comunittee shall have the discretion not to recommend the 
grantof any particular award . 

(15 ) The Committee shald have the discretion to recommend a 
special Award of Rs. 10,000 , a replica and a certificate to outstanding 
brilliance in any aspect of cinematic Art in the filmis screened before the 
Committee . 

(16 ) Canvassing in any form shall make the entry invalid and 
shall disqualify it for awards. 

(17 ) The last date of entry may be relaxed at the discretion of 
Government of Kerala in exceptional cases. 

V ( 1) The awards shall be presented to the winners at a function 
which will be held at such place and on such date as the State Government 
may determine. 

(2) The award winnen shall receive the awards in person at the 
function or they shall receive it from the Director of Public Relations on 
any working day within one month after the day of the function . If they 


6 


fail to do so the award will be sent to the respective winners by registered 
post 

( 3) In case documentary films produced by the State Government 
are entered for the competition the Government representative in the 
Committee should not exercise their voting rights when the final selections 
made. 


VI (1) Government shall be entitled to retain one print of the film which 
receives an award . The prints so retained will be given to the Kerala State 
Film Development Corporation Limited who will reimburse to the Producer 
the cost of the print viz . cost of raw materials and processing charges 
reimbursement being made only if a brand new print is made available 
within three months from the date of announcement of the awards. If a 
brand new print is not supplied to the Director of Public Relations within 
three months of the announcement of the awards then no reimbursement will 
be made and the print entered for the award will be retained by the Govern 
ment without any compensation to the Producer. 

( 2) The Government shall also retain the right to sereen such films 
with or without tickets in connection with functions organised by 
Government. 


Trivandrum . 


K. M. CHACKO , 
Director of Public Relations . 


Kerala Gazette No. i dated 1st January 1980 
PART I 


Secdian i 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Law (Leg . Pbn .) Department 

NOTIFICATION 
No. 15066 /Leg.Pbn.2179/Law . Dated , Trivandrum , 22nd October , 1979 . 

The following Ordinance promulgated by the President and published 
in a Gazetic of India Extraordinary, Part II, Section 1 , dated the 
25th September, 1979, is hereby republished for general information . 


By order of the Governor , 
K. VISWANATHAN NAR , 

Law Secretary 


THE COMPANIES (AMENDMENT) ORDINANCE , 1979 

(No. 9 OF 1979 ) 


Promulgated by the President in the Thirtieth Year of the Republic of 
India . 

An Ordinance further to amend the Companies Act, 1956 . 

WHEREAS the House of the People has been dissolved and the Council 
of States is not in session and the President is satisted that circumstances 
exist which render it necessary for him to take immediate action ; 

Now , THEREFORE , in exercise of the powers conſerred by clause (1) of 
article 123 of the Constitution , the President is pleased to promulgate the 
following Ordinance : 

1. Short title and commencement.- (1) This Ordinance may be called 
the Companies (Amendoen ) Ordinance, 1979 . 

(2 ) It shall come into force at once . 

2. Amendment of section 293A . - In scction 293 A of the Companies 
Act, 1956 ( 1 of 1956 ), - 

(i) in sub -section (1), for the words " contribute any amount or 
amounts" , the words " make any contribution shall be substituted ; 
G , 1750 


2 


Political 


(ii) after sub - section (2 ), the following sub -sections shall be 
inserted , namely : 

“ ( 3) If any member or office-bearer of a political party or 
any other person receives from any company, whether direc ly. " I 
ind rectly, any contributi in t a politicil party , or for 
purposes, in contravention of the provisions of this section , he 
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which 

may 
extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine . 

( 4) If a company or any officer thereof, directly or indirectly , 
renders assistance, in any form , to an individual or body to erable 
such individual or body to make contribution , or to obtain reim 
bursement for contribution made, to a political party or for any 
political purpose , then , 

(i) the company shall be punishable with fine which may 
extend to five thousand rupees ; and 

(ii ) every officer of the company who renders, or autho 
rises, such assistance shall be punishable with imprisonment 
for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be 
liable to fine. 

(5) For the purposes of sub -sections (1), (2), (3) and (4), 
contribution by a company to a political party, or for political 
purposes, includes 
(i) every director 

indirect donation , subscription or 
other payment, or provision of any service or assistance, in 
whatever form , made, or given , or caused to be made or given , 
by the company to such political party or for such political 
purposes ; 
( ii ) every donation , subscription or 

other payment, or 
provision of any service or assistance, made or given , or caused 
to be made or given , by, or on behalf of, the company or on 
its account, to any indi iJual or body , who, or which , to the 
knowledge of the company, is carrying on , or proposing to 
carry on , any activities which can , at the timeat which such 
donation , subscription , other payment, or provision of any 
service or assistance, is made or given , or caused to be n ade 
or given , be reasonably regarded as likely to affect public 
support for such poli ical party or any other political party or 
political purpose supportei by such political party . 

Explanation . - Every expenditure incurred , whether directly 
or indirectly , by a compaay on advertisement in any souvenir , 
brochure, pamphlet or the like , published by or on behall of, 
a political party shall be deemed , for the purposes of this 
section , to be a contribution for political purposes . 


3 


( 6) Nothing in Chapter XXXVI of the Code of Crimina . 
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974 ) shall apply to 

(i) any offen e punishable under thls sectio :1 ; or 

( ii ) any o her offence , which under the provisio :us of 
that Code may be iried along with an oHence under this 

section , 
and every offence referred to in clause (i) or clause ( ii ) may be 
taken cognizance of by the Court h.ving jurisdiction as if the 
provisions of that Code were not enacted .” . 


N. SANJIVA REDDY, 

President. 


Kerala Gazette No. I dated 1st January 1980 
PART I 


Section i 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Law (Leg.Pbn. ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 


No. 14604 /Leg . Pbn . 2/79 /Law . Dated , Trisandrum , 22nd October 1979 . 

The following Act of Parliament, published in a Gazette of India 
Extraordinary , Part II - Section 1, dated the 26th May, 1979, is 
hereby republished for general information . The Bill as passed by the 
Houses of Parliament received the assent of the President on the 
25th May, 1979. 

By order of the Governor , 
K. VISWANATHAN NAIR , 

Law Secretary . 


THE SALARY, ALLOWANCES AND PENSION OF MEMBERS 
UF PARLIAMENT (AMENDMENT) ACT, 1979 

(No. 27 or 1979 ) 

AN 

ACT 
further to amend the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of 

Parliament Act, 1954 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Thirtieth Year of the Republic of 
India as follows : 

1. hort title . – This Act may be called the Salary , Allowances and 
Pension of Membrs of Parliam - nt ( Amendment) Act, 1979 . 

2. Insertion of new section 6D . - In the Salary , A lowances and Pension 
of Members of Pirliament Act, 195 (30 • 1951), after scction 6C , the 
following section shall be inserted , n m ly : 

" 6D. Special fucılity to blind and physically is capacitated members. -A 
member who is blind or who is, in the opinion of the Chairman of 
the Council of States or, as the case my be, he Speaker of the House 
of the Pe ple , so incapacitati d physically as to requ re the facility of an 
attendant sha I, with resp ct to each such journey by air as is relerred 
to in clause (b ) of subsection (1) of secti 11 4 or clause (b ) of subsec 
tion (1 ) of section 5 or eu tio 6C which he performs along with an 
atte dant, be entitled (in addition to the all wances which he is 
en itled under section 4 or se iou 5 or, as the case n.ay be , section 6C ) 
to an amount equal to orc fare by air for such journcy " . 


G , 1731 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980. 


Seccia a 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Law (Leg . Pbn .) Department 

NOTIFICATION 


No. 15066 /Leg . Pbn . 2 /79 /L3w . Daied , Tridentem , 22nd October 1979. 

The following Ordinance promulgated by the President and published 
in a Gazette of India Extraordinary , Part II, Secticn , dated the 
25th September, 1979 is hereby republished for general information . 

By order of the Governor , 
K. VISWANATHAN NAIR , 

Law Secret 1/1. 


THE GOVERNMENT OF UNION TERRITORIES 
(AMENDMENT) ORDINANCE , 1979 

(No. 8 OF 1979) 


Promulgated by the President in the Thirtieth Year of the Republic 

of India . 
An Ordinance further to amend the Government of Union Territories 

Act, 1903. 
WHEREAS the House of he People has been dissolved and the Council 
of Statcs is not in session and the Picsident is satisfied that circumstances 
exist which render it necessary for him to take immediate action ; 

Now , THEREFORE , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of 
Article 123 of the Constitution , the Pres.dent is pleased to promulgate the 
fo.lowing Ordinance. 

1. “ Short title and commencement.- ( 1) This Ordinance may be called 
the Governa ent of Union Territories (Amendment) Ordinance , 1979 . 

(2) It shall come into force at once. 

2 . Act 20 of 1963 to be temporarily amended . During the period of 
operation of this Ordinance, the Government of nion Territories A t, 1963 
(hereinafter referred to as the Principal Act) shall have effect subject to the 
amendment specified in section 3 . 
G1749 


2 


3. Insertion of new section 52. - After section 51 of the Principal Act, the 
following section shall be inserted , namely : 

*152. Authorisation of expenditureby President.— Where the Legislative 
Assembly of a Union territory is dissolvert , or its functioning as such 
Assembly remains suspended, on account of an order under sectio . 51, 
it shall be competent for the President to authorise when the House of 
the People is not in session expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of 
that Union territory pending the sanction of such expenditure by 
Parliament." . 


N. SANJIVA REDDY, 

• President. 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 . 
PART I 


Section i 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Law (Leg . Pbn . ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 
No. 13480 /Leg . Pbn . 2 / 79 /Law . Dated , Trivandrum , 25th September 1979 . 

The following Ordinance promulgated by the President and published 
in a Gazette of India Extraordinary , Part II-Section 1 , dated the 30th 
August, 1979, is hereby republished for general information . 

By order of the Governor, 
K. VISWANATHAN NAIR , 

Law Secretary 


THE PAYMENT OF BONU S (AMENDMENT) 

ORDINANCE, 1979 (No. 6 OF 1979 ) 
Promulgated by the President in the Thirtieth Year 

of the Republic of India 
An Ordinance further to amend the Payment of Bonus (Amendment) 

Act, 1977 . 
WHEREAS the House of the People has been dissolved and the Council 
of States is not in session and the President is satisfied that circumstances 
exist which render it necessary for him to take immediate action ; 

Now THEREFORE, in exercise of the pwers conferred by clause (1) 
of article 123 of the Constitution , the President is pleased to promu gaie 
the following Ordinance : 

1. Short title and co- mencement (1) This Ordinance may be called 
the Payment of Bonus (Amendment) Ordinance , 1979 . 

(2 ) It shall come into force at once. 

2. Act 43 of 1977 to be temporarily amended. During the period of 
operation of this Ordinance, the Payment of Bonus (Amendment) Act, 1977 
(hereinafter referred to as the Amendo ent Act) shalı hare effect subject to 
the amendment specified in section 3 . 

3. Amendment of secti n 2. - In section 2 ofthe Amendrent Act, for the 
words and figures “ and in respect of ihe accounting year commencing on 
any day in the year 1977 ” , the words and figures " , in respect of the 
accounting year commencing on any day in the year 1977 and in respect of 
the accounting year cominencing on any day in the year 1978 ” shall be 
substituted . 

N. SANJIVA REDDY, 

President. 


G. 1608 


2 


3. Insertion of new section 52. - After section 51 of the Principal Act, the 
following section shall be inserted , namely: 

“ 52. Authorisation of expenditure by President.-- Where the Legislative 
Assembly of a Union territory is dissolvert, or its functioning as such 
Assembly remains suspended , on account of an order under sectio , 51, 
it shall be competent for the President to authorise when the House of 
the People is not in session expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of 
that Union territory pending the sanction of such expenditure by 
Parliament." 


N. SANJIVA REDDY, 

President. 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 
PARTI 


dated 1st January 1980 


Sectisati 


കരള സർക്കാർ 
നിയമ ( നിയമനിർമ്മാണം- എ ) വകുപ്പ് 

വിജ്ഞാപനം 
ന.മ്പർ 14052 ലെജ° ( എ ) 1 / 79/ ലം . തിരുവനന്തപുരം, 1979 നവംബർ 31 

1901 കാർ ത്തിക 12 . 
കേരള നിയമസഭയുടെ താഴെപ്പറയുന്ന 

ആക്റ് 

പൊതുജനങ്ങളുടെ 
അറിവിലേക്കായി ഇതിനാൽ പ്രസിദ്ധപ്പെടുത്തുന്നു . നിയമസ a പാസാക്കാ യ 
പകാരമുള ബില്ലിന് 1979 നവംബർ 2-0. തീയതി ( പ സി ഡ നി ന്റെ 
അനുമതി ലഭിക്കുകയുണ്ടായി. 

ഗവർണ്ണറുടെ ഉത്തരവുപകരം, 

പി . എ . ( ശീനിവാസൻ, 
ജോയിൻറ് സെകട്ടറി . 


തിനും 


1979 - ലെ 29-9 . ആക്ററ് പാട്ടക്കുടിശിക ഗഡുക്കളായി കൊടുക്കുന്നതു 

സംബന്ധിച്ച് 1979 - ലെ കേരള ആക്റ് 
പാ ട്ട ക്കു ടി ശി ക ഗഡുക്കളായി കൊടുക്കാൻ സൗകര്യപ്പെടുത്തുന്നതിനും 
അതിനോടനുബന്ധിച്ചുളള ക ര ര ്യ ങ്ങ ൾ ക്ക് 2 വ്യവസ്ഥ ചെയ്യുന്ന ഒരു 
ആക്ററ്. 
പീഠിക -പാട്ടക്കുടിശിക ഗഡുക്കളായി കൊടുക്കാൻ സൗകര്യപ്പെടുത്തുന്ന 

അതിനോടനുബന്ധിച്ചുളള കാര്യങ്ങൾക്കും വ്യവസ്ഥചെയ്യുന്നതു 
യുക്തമായിരിക്കുകയാൽ; 

ഇൻഡ്യൻ റിപ്പബ്ലിക്കിന്റെ മുപ്പതാം സംവൽസരത്തിൽ താ ഴെ പ റ യു . 
( പകാരം നിയമമുണ്ടാക്കുന്നു : 

1. ചുരുക്കപ്പേരും വ്യാപ്തിയും ( പാരംഭവും. - 1) ഈ ആക°ററിന് പാട്ട 
ക്കുടിശിക ഗഡുക്കളായി കൊടുക്കുന്നതു സംബന്ധിച്ച് 1979 - ലെ കേരള 
ആക° ററ ” എന്ന് പേർ പറയാം, 

( 2) ഇതിന് കേരള സംസ്ഥാന മുഴുവൻ വ്യാപ്തിയുണ്ടായിരിക്കുന്ന 
താണ്. 

(3 ) ഇത് 1979 ജൂലായ് 19 -ാം തീയതി പ്രാബല്യത്തിൽ വന്നതായി 
കരുതപ്പെടേണ്ടതാകുന്നു . 

2. നിർവ്വചനങ്ങൾ. - ഇ ആ ഉ °ററിൽ, സന്ദർ . മറ്റുവിധത്തി തൽ ആവശ്യ 
പ്പെടാത്തപക്ഷം, “നടപ്പുകുടിയാൻ , കൈവശഭൂമി , ദേഹണ്ഡം", "മാൻഡ 

ടബണൽ , പാട്ട് കുടിയാൻ എന്നീ പദങ്ങൾക്ക് 1963- ലെ കേരള 
ഭൂപരിഷ്ക്കരണ ആക്ററിൽ (1964 - ലെ 1) അവയ്ക്കു യഥാക്രമം കൊടുത്തി 
ടുളള അർത്ഥങ്ങൾ ഉണ്ടായിരിക്കുന്നതാണ്. 
G. 2123 


2 


അഥവാ 
അഥവാ 


3. പാട്ടക്കുടിശിക ഗഡുകളായി കാടുക്കൽ -- (1) തൽസമയ . നിലവി 
ലുളള മറേറതെങ്കിലും നിയമത്തിലോ, 

ഏതെങ്കിലും കരാറിലാ, 
നാട്ടാചാരത്തിലോ, വഴക്കത്ത ലോ 

ഏതെങ്കിലും കോടതിയുടെയോ 
ലാൻഡ് ടബ ണലിൻറ യാ എതെങ്കിലും ഡികിയിലോ അഥവാ ഉത്തര 
വിലോ വിരുദ്ധമായി എന്തുതന്നെ അടങ്ങിയിരുന്നാലും , 1970 ജനുവരി 1-0. 
തീയതിക്കു മുൻപ് കൊടുക്കുവാനുളളതും ഈ ആക്ററിന്റെ പ്രാരംഭത്തിൽ 
പിരിഞ്ഞുകിട്ടാനുളളതുമായ എല്ലാ പാട്ടക്കുടിശികയും അ ങ്ങനെയുളള പാരം 
ത്തിൽ അതിൻ മേൽ കൊടുക്കേണ്ട പലിശ വല്ലതുമുണ്ടെങ്കിൽ അതുസഹിതം 
(2) -ാം ഉപവകപ്പിൽ വ്യവസ്ഥ ചെയ്തിരിക്കുന്ന പ്രകാരം ആറ് തുല്യ 
അർദ്ധവാർഷിക ഗഡുക്കളായി കൊടുക്കുകയാണെങ്കിൽ, പൂർണ്ണമായി 
കൊടുത്തുതീർത്തതായി കരുതപ്പെടുന്നതാണ്. 


വിശദീകരണം. - ഈ ഉപവകുപ്പിന്റെ ആവശ്യങ്ങൾക്കായി, 1968 മേയ് 1 -ാം 

തീയതിക്കു മുൻപ് ഒരു കു ടി യാ നി ൽ നി ന്നു . കിട്ടേണ്ടതായ 
പാട്ടക്കുടിശിക 1963 - ലെ കേരള ഭൂപരിഷ്ക്കരണ ആക്റ ° 1964- ലെ (1) 
73 -ാം വകുപ്പിൻകീഴിൽ അയാളുടെ ജൻമിക്ക് അയാളിൽ നിന്നും 
വസുലാക്കാൻ അവകാശമുളള തുകയായികരുതപ്പെടേണ്ടതാണ് . 

( 2 ) ഒന്നാം ഗഡു ഈ ആക്ററിന്റെ പ്രാരംഭം മുതൽ ആറുമാസം 
കഴിയുമ്പോഴേക്ക അതിനുമുമ്പോ കൊടുക്കണ്ടതും ശേഷിച്ച ഗഡുക്കളിൽ 
ഓരോന്നും മുൻപത്തെ ഗഡു കൊടുക്കണ്ടതായിത്തീർന്ന അവസാനദിവസം 
മുതൽ ആറും സക്കാലാവധി 

അവസാനിക്കുമ്പോഴോ അതിന മുൻപോ 
കൊടുക്കേണ്ടതുമാണ്. 

എന്നാൽ ( 3) -ാം ഉപവകുപ്പിൽ പ റ ഞ്ഞി രി ക്കു ന്ന കാടതിക്കാ, 
( ടൈബ്യൂണലിനോ നിശ്ചിത തീയതിയിലോ അതിനു മുൻപോഏതെങ്കിലും 
ഗഡു കൊടുക്കുന്നതിൽനിന്നും കുടിയാനെ മതിയായ കാരണത്താലാണ 
തടസപ്പെടുത്തുന്നതെന്ന് ബോദ്ധ്യമായാൽ നിശ്ചിത തീ യ ത ി മ ത ൽ 
പതിനഞ്ചുദിവസം കഴിയുന്നതിനുമുൻപ് ആ ഗഡുമെടുക്കുവാൻ ! അയാളെ 
അനുവദിക്കാവുന്നതാണ്. 

(3) ( 2) -- ഉപവകുപ്പിൻകീഴിൽ കൊടുക്കേണ്ടതായ ഗഡുക്കൾ പാട്ട 
ക്കുടിശിക വസൂലാക്കുന്നതിനുളള നടപടികൾ നിലവിലുളള കോടതിയിലോ 
ലാൻഡ് ടബ്യൂണലിലോ അഥവാ അങ്ങനെയുളള യാതൊരു നടപടിയും 
നിലവിലില്ലാത്തപക്ഷം, ഈ ആവശ്യത്തിനായി സർക്കാർ നിർദ ° ദേശിക്കാവുന്ന 
( പകാരമുള്ള കോടതിയിലോ ബണലിലോ അതിനവകാശപ്പെട്ട ആൾക്കു 
കൊടുക്കാൻ വേണ്ടി കൊടുക്കേണ്ടതോ കെട്ടിവയ്ക്കേണ്ടതോ ആകുന്നു . 
4. പാട്ടക്കുടിശികയ്ക്കു 

വേണ്ടിയുളള വ്യവഹാരങ്ങൾ , അപേക്ഷകൾ 
മുതലായവ നിറുത്തിവയ്ക്കൽ. - തൽസമയം നിലവിലുളള മറേറതെങ്കിലും 
നിയമത്തിലോ അഥവാ ഏങ്കിലും കരാറിലോ, നാ ചാരത്തിലോ വഴക്ക 
ത്തിലാ അഥവാ ഏതെങ്കിലും 

കോടതിയുടേയോ 

ലാൻഡ് ടബുണ് 
ലിന്റെയോ ഏതെങ്കിലും വിധിന്യായ ത്തിലോ ഡികിയിലോ, ഉത്തരവിലേം 
വിരുദ്ധമായി എന്തുതന്നെ അ 6 ങ്ങി യി രു ന്നാ ലും , ഈ ആക° ററിൻറ 
( പാരത്തിലും അതുമുതൽക്കും പ്രാബല്യത്തോടുകൂടി - 

3 -ാം വകുപ്പിൽ പരാമർശിച്ചിട്ടുളള പാട്ടക്കുടിശിക വസലാക്കു 
ന്നതിനുളള യാതൊരു വ്യവഹാരമോ, അപേക്ഷയാ മററു നടപടികളോ; 
അഥവാ 


3 


നടപ്പു 


( വി ) അങ്ങനയുളള പാട്ടക്കുടിശിക വ സൂ ലാ ക്ക ന്ന തി ന 32 
ഡനകീയം വാ "ഉത്തർവം നടത്തുന്നതിനുവേണ്ടിയുളള 

യാതൊര 
അപക്ഷയം അഥവാ നടപടികളും അഥവാ അതിനോടനുബന്ധിച്ചുളള തേം 
അഥവാ അതിനു സഹായകമായതോ ആയ മററു അ പക്ഷായാ നടപടികളാ 
ഏതെങ്കിലും കോടതിയിലോ ലാൻഡ ടബ്യൂണലിലോ സ്വീകാര്യ 
മായിരിക്കുന്നതല്ലാത്തതും അങ്ങിനെയുളള ( പാരംഭത്തിൽ ഏതെങ്കിലും കോടതി 
യിലോ ലാൻഡ്രെടബ്യൂണലിലോ നിലവിലുളള അങ്ങനെയുളള എല്ലാ 
വ്യവഹാരങ്ങളും അപേക്ഷകളും മററു ന ട പ ടി ക ള ം നിറുത്തിവയ്ക്ക 
പ്പടുന്നതുമാണ്. 

5 . കവശം തിരിച്ചുകൊടുക്കൽ.- (I) മറേറതെങ്കിലും നിയമത്തിലോ 
അഥവാ ഏതെങ്കിലും കോടതിയുടേയോ ലാൻറ് ബണലിൻറയോ, 
ഏതെങ്കിലും വിധിന്യായത്തിലോ, ഡി കിയിലോ ഉത്തരവിലോ വിരുദ്ധ 
മായി എന്തുതന്നെയടങ്ങിയിരുന്നാലും, ഏതെങ്കിലും കൈവശഭൂമി 3-0 . 
വകുപ്പിൽ പരാമർശിച്ചിട്ടുളള പാട്ടക്കുടിശികക്കായുളള ഏതെങ്കിലും ഡികിയോ 
ഉത്തരവോ നടത്തുന്നതിൽ വിലക്കപ്പെടുകയും. ഈ ആക്ററിന്റെ പാരം 
ത്തിനുമുൻപ് നടപ്പുകുടിയാൻ കൈവശഭൂമിയുടെ കൈവശത്തിൽനിന്നും 
നീക്കം ചെയ്യപ്പെടുകയും ചെയ്യുന്ന സംഗതിയിൽ അങ്ങനെയുളള 
കുടിയാന് ഈ വകുപ്പിലെ വ്യവസ്ഥകൾക്കു വിധേയമായി കൈവശഭൂമി 
യുടെ കൈവശം തിരിച്ചുകിട്ടാൻ അവകാശമുണ്ടായിരിക്കുന്നതാണ്. 

( 2) (1 ) -ാം ഉപവകുപ്പിൻകീഴിൽ തന്റെ കൈവശ ഭൂമിയുടെ കൈവശം 
തിരിച്ചുകിട്ടാൻ അവകാശമുള്ള ഏതൊരാൾക്കും 3 -ാം വകുപ്പ് (2 ) - , ഉപ 
വകുപ്പിൽ വ്യവസ്ഥ ചെയ്തിരിക്കുന്ന പ്രകാരം പാട്ടഗഡുക്കൾ കൊടുത്ത 
ശേഷം മൂന്നുമാസക്കാലത്തിനുളളിൽ, ഡി കിയോ ഉത്തരവോ പാസാക്കിയ, 
അതതു സംഗതിപോലെ , കോടതിയിലോ ലാൻ ഡ 

ടബണലിലോ 
അതു അസ്ഥിരപ്പെടുത്തുവാനും തൻ കൈവശഭൂമിയ ടെ 
തിരിച്ചുകിട്ടുന്നതിനുമായി അപേക്ഷ ബോധിപ്പിക്കാവുന്നതാണ്. 

(3 ) അതതു സംഗതി പാലെ , കോടതിക്കോ ലാൻഡ ടെബൂ ണ 
ലിനാ 

യുക്തമെന്ന് അതുകരുതുന്ന അന്വേഷണവിചാരണയ്ക്കുശേഷം, 
തിരിച്ചുകിട്ടുന്നതിനുളള അപേക്ഷ അനുവദിച്ചുകൊണ്ടും കോടതിയുടെയോ 
ലാൻഡ് ടബണലിന്റെയോ ഏതെങ്കിലും ഡി കി യി ൻ കീ ഴി ലോ 
ഉത്തരവിൻ കീഴിലാ ദേഹണ്ഡവിലയായോ 

മറ്റുവിധത്തിലോ 
എന്തെങ്കിലും നഷ്ടപരിഹാരം അ g പക്ഷകൻ വാങ്ങിയിട്ടുണ്ടെങ്കിൽ അത്യം 

ക വശാവകാശം ഒഴിഞ്ഞതിനുശേഷംഎന്തെങ്കിലും ദേഹണ്ഡങ്ങൾ ഭൂമിയിൽ 
ചെയ്തിട്ടുണ്ടെങ്കിൽ കോടതിയോ ലാൻഡ 

ബ്രണലോ നിശ്ചയി 
ക്കാവു ന്നപകാരമുളള അതിന്റെ വിലയും ഉത്തരവിൽ പറഞ്ഞിരിക്കാവുന്ന 
പകാരമുളള കാലാവധിക്കകം കെട്ടിവയ്ക്കാൻ നി ർ ദ ” ദേ ശി ച്ചു കൊ ണ്ട 
ഉത്തര, പാ സാക്കാവുന്നതാണ്. 

( 4) (3) -ാം ഉപവകുപ്പിൻ കീഴിലുളള ഉത്തരവിൽ പറഞ്ഞിരിക്കുന്ന 
പ്രകാരം നഷ്ടപരിഹാരവും ദേഹംണ്ഡവിലയും വാങ്ങുന്നതി ൻമേൽ, അതതു 
സംഗതിപോലെ , 

കോടതിയോ ലാൻഡ് ടബ്യൂണലോ, ആവശ്യമുളളപക്ഷം, 
ഒഴിയാൻ വിസ തിക്കുന്ന ഏതൊരാളിനേയും നീക്കംചെയ്തുകൊണ്ട 
അപേക്ഷകന് ഭൂമിയുടെ കൈവശം തിരിച്ചുകൊടുക്കേണ്ടതാണ്. 

6 . ഗഡുക്കൾ നിശ്ചിതസമയത്തു കൊടുക്കുന്നതിൽ വീഴ 9 .J രത്തുന്ന 
കു ടി യാ ൻ മാ ർ ആനുകൂല്യങ്ങൾക ർഹരല്ലെന്ന്. 3 -ാം വകുപ്പ് 2 -ാം ഉപ 
വകുപ്പിൽ വ്യവസ്ഥചെയ്തിരിക്കുന്ന പ്രകാരം നിശ" ചിത തീയതിയിലോ 


കൈവശം 


അഥവാ 


4 


അഥവാ 


ആയ 


അതിനുമുൻപോ ഏതെങ്കിലും ഗഡുകൊടുക്കുന്നതിൽ 

വീഴ്ചവരുത്തുന്ന 
ഏതൊരു കുടിയാനും ഈ ആക്റ °മൂലം നൽകിയിട്ടുളള ഏതെങ്കിലും 
ആനുകൂല്യത്തിന് അർഹനായിരിക്കുന്നതല്ല . 

1. കാലഹരണം -ഈ ആക്ററിൻകീഴിൽ ന ി ാ ര മ ധ മ ക്ക പ്പ ട്ട തോ 
നിറുത്തിവച്ചതോ വ്യവഹാരങ്ങളോ, അപേക്ഷകളാ 

മററു 
നടപടികളാ ബോധിപ്പിക്കുന്നതിനുളള കാലഹരണത്തിൻറ കാലാവധി 
കണക്കാക്കുന്നതിൽ, അങ്ങിനെയുളള വ്യവഹാരങ്ങളോ, അപേക്ഷകളോ, മററു 
നടപടികളോ, ഈ ആക്ററിൻകീഴിൽ നിരോധിച്ചിരുന്നതോ, നിറുത്തി 
വച്ചിരുന്നതോആയ സമയം ഒഴിവാക്കേണ്ടതാണ്. 

8. ആക്റ് ചിലവിഭാഗം കുടിയാൻമാർക്ക് ബാധകമല്ലെന്ന് - ഈ 
ആക്ററിൽ അടങ്ങിയ യാതൊന്നും 1977- ലെ കേരള ഋണാശ്വാസ ആക്റ് 
(1977 - ലെ 17) 2-39 വകുപ്പ് (4)- . ഖണ്ഡത്തിൽ നിർവചിച്ച പ്രകാരമുളള 
അ ധമർണ്ണനായ ഒരു കുടിയാനിൽ നിന്നും കിട്ടുവാനുളള പാട്ടക്കുടിശികയെ 
സംബന്ധിച്ച് ബാധകമാകുന്നതല്ല . 

9. റദ്ദാക്കലും ഒഴിവാക്കലും.- (1) പാട്ടക്കുടിശിക ഗഡുക്കളായി 
കൊടുക്കുന്നതു സംബന്ധിച്ച് 1979 - ലെ കേരള ഓർഡിനൻസ് (1979 - ലെ 10 ) 
ഇതിനാൽ റദ്ദാക്കിയിരിക്കുന്നു . 

(2 ) അങ്ങനെ റദ്ദാക്കിയിരുന്നാൽത്തന്നെയും, പ്രസ്തുത ഒാർഡിനൻ 
സിൻ കീഴിൽ ചെയ്തഏതെങ്കിലും കാര്യമോ അഥവാ എടുത്ത് ഏതെങ്കിലും 
നടപടിയോ ഈ ആക്ററിൻകീഴിൽ ചെയ്തതോ എടുത്തതോ ആയി കരുത 
പ്പെടേണ്ടതാകുന്നു . 

( ശരിത്തർജ്ജമ) 


പി , ജഗദമ്മ, 
അഡീ, ഹഡം (ട്രാൻസ്ലേറ്റർ , 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 . 
PARTI 


Section ti 


കേരള സർക്കാർ 


നിയമ ( ജ °-സി) വകുപ്പ് 


വിഞാപനം 


തിരുവനന്തപുരം, 1979 നവംബർ 4 
നമ്പർ, 13987 ലെജ°, സി 2 /79/ ലാം . 

1901 കാർത്തിക 13 . 
കേരള നിയമസഭയുടെ താഴെപ്പറയുന്ന 

(ആക്ററ് 

പൊതുജനങ്ങളു 
അറിവിനായി ഇതിനാൽ (പ്രസിദ്ധപ്പെടുത്തുന്നു . 

നിയമസഭ പാസാക്കിയ 
( പകാരമുളള ബില്ലിന് 1979 നവംബർ 4 -ാം തീയതി ഗവർണ്ണറുടെ അനുമതി 
ലഭിച്ചു . 


ഗവർണ്ണറുടെ ഉത്തരവുപകാരം, 

കെ , വിശ്വനാഥൻ നായർ, 
നിയമവകുപ്പു സെക്രട്ടറി. 


1979- ലെ 32 -ാം ആക്ററ് 

കേരള പഞ്ചായത്ത് ( ഭേദഗതി) ആക്ററ്, 1979. 
1960- ലെ കേരള പഞ്ചായത്ത്ആക്ററ് വീണ്ടും ഭേദഗതി ചെയ്യുന്നതിനുള 

ഒരു ആക്റ 


പീഠിക - 1960 - ലെ കേരള പഞ്ചായത്ത ആക്റ് 

താഴെ കാണുന്ന 
ആവശ്യങ്ങൾക്കായി വീണ്ടും ഭേദഗതി ചെയ്യുന്നത് യുക്തമായിരിക്കയാൽ ; 
ഇൻഡ്യൻ റിപ്പബ്ലിക്കിന്റെം മുപ്പതാം 

സംവൽസരത്തിൽ താഴെപ്പറയും 
പ്രകാരം നിയമമുണ്ടാക്കുന്നു : 
1 . ചുരുക്കപ്പേരും ( പാ രം 8 എം . - (1) ഈ 

(ആക മിന 

കരള 
പഞ്ചായത്ത് ( ഭേദഗതി) ആക്ററ്, 1979 എന്നുപേർ പറയാം. 

(2) ഇത് 1979 മാർച്ച് 6 -ാം തീയതി പ്രാബല്യത്തിൽ പന്നയായി 
കരുതപ്പെടേണ്ടതാണ്. 
G. 2121 


2 


എ ന്നാണ 


2 . 55 -ാം വകുപ്പിന്റെ ഗതി 1960- ലെ കേരള പഞ്ചായത്ത്ആക്ററ് 
(1960- ലെ 32) ( ഇതിനുശേഷം പ്രധാന ആകററ് 

പരാമർശിക്കു 
റപ്പെടുന്നത്) 55 -ാം വകുപ്പിൽ - 

(1 ) (1) -ാം ഉപവകുപ്പിൽ, “ നിർദിഷ്ട തീയതി മുതൽരണ്ടു വർഷ 
ത്തിൽ കവിയാത്ത കാലത്തേക്ക് എന്നതിനു പകരം, നിർദ്ദിഷ്ട തീയതി 
മുതൽ ആറുമാസത്തിൽ കവിയാത്ത കാലം അത്തയ്ക്ക് പ്രസ്തുത കാലാവധി, 
റ 8 °ദാക്കലിന്റെ മൊത്തം കാലാവധിമൂന്നു വർഷത്തിൽ കവിയാത്ത വിധം. ഒരു 
സമയം ആറു മാസത്തിൽ കവിയാത്ത കാലത്തേക്ക് അതതുസമയം 

ദീർഘിപ്പി 
ക്കാവുന്നതാണ് എന്നതു ചേർക്കേണ്ടതാണ്. 

( 2 ) (4 ) -ാം ഉപവകുപ്പിനു പകരം, താഴെപ്പറയുന്ന ഉപവകുപ്പുകൾ 
ചർക്കണ്ടതാണ്, അതായത് : 

"(4 ) അതതു സംഗതിപോലെ , പഞ്ചായത്ത് പിരിച്ചുവിടുന്നതിനും 
പുനഃസംഘടിപ്പിക്കുന്നതിനും മധ്യേ വല്ല ഇടക്കാലവുചുണ്ടെങ്കിൽ ആ 
കാലത്തോഅഥവം അതു റദ്ദാക്കിയിരിക്കുന്ന കാലത്താ പഞ്ചായത്തിൻറയും 
അതിൻറ പസിഡൻറിൻറയും എല്ലാ ജോലികളും അധികാരങ്ങളും കർത്തവ്യ 
ങ്ങളും അഥവാ അവയിൽഏതെങ്കിലുമോ, കഴിയുന്നിടത്താളവും സർക്കാർ 
നിശ്ചയിക്കാവുന്നിടത്താളവും 
( എ ) യഥാകമം ഒരു ഭരണനിർവ്വഹണക്കമ്മിറ്റിയും 

അതിൻറ 
പ്രസിഡൻറും അവരുമോ, അഥവാ 

( ബി ) ഒരു സ്പെഷ്യൽഓഫീസറോ വിനിയോഗിക്കുകയും നിർവ്വ 
ഹിക്കുകയും ചെയ്യാവുന്നതാണ്. 

(4 എ ) (4 ) -ാം ഉപവകുപ്പിൽ പരാമർശിച്ചിട്ടുളള ഭരണ നിർവ്വഹണ 
ക്കമ്മിററിയേയും അതിന്റെ പ്രസിഡൻറിനേയും സ്പെഷ്യൽ ഓഫീസറയും 
ഗസറ്റ് വിജം ഞാപനം വഴി സർക്കാർ നിയമിക്കേണ്ടതാണ്. 

(4 ബി ) ( 4 എ ) ഉപവകുപ്പിൻ കീഴിൽ നിയമിക്കപ്പെട്ട ഭരണനിർവ്വഹണ 
ക്കമ്മിററിയോ അഥവാ സ്പെഷ്യൽ ആഫീസറോ, ( 5 ) -ാം ഉപവകുപ്പിലെ 
വ്യവസ്ഥകൾക്ക് വിധേയമായി, ഈ ആക്ററിന്റെ ആവശ്യങ്ങൾക്ക് 
വിധി രൂപീകരിക്കപ്പെട്ട ഒരു പഞ്ചായത്തായി കരുതപ്പെടേണ്ടതാണ്. 

3. ഈരാറ്റുപേട്ട പഞ്ചായത്ത്റ9 °ദാക്കപ്പെട്ട കാലയളവ് ദീർഘിപ്പിക്കൽ - 
( പധാന ആക° ററിലോ തൽസമയം പാബല്യത്തിലുളള മറേറതെങ്കിലും നിയമ 
ത്തിലോ എന്നു തന്നെ അടങ്ങിയിരുന്നാലും, -- 

( എ ) കോട്ടയം ജില്ലയിൽ മീനച്ചൽ താലൂക്കിലുളള ഈരാറ്റുപേട്ട 
പഞ്ചായത്ത് റദ“ദാക്കപ്പെട്ട കാലയളവ് 1979 മാർച്ച് 7 -ാം തീയതി മുതൽ 1979 
ജൂലൈ 6 -ാം തീയതി ഉൾപ്പെടെ അന്നുവരെയും സർക്കാർ ഈ ആക്ററുമൂല് 
ഭേദഗതി ചെയ്യപ്പെട്ട പ്രധാന് ആക്ററ് 55 -ാം വകുപ്പുമൂലം അവർക്ക് നൽകപ്പെട്ട 
അധികാരങ്ങൾ വിനിയോഗിച്ച്, ദീർഘിപ്പിച്ചത്. യി കരുതപ്പെടേണ്ടതാണ് ; 

( ബി ) (പസ്തു ത പഞ്ചായത്തിന്റെ ജോലിക ളും അധികാരങ്ങളും 
കർത്തവ്യങ്ങളു ം 1999 മാർച്ച് 6 -ാം തീയതി ഉൾപ്പെടെ അന്നു വരെ വിനിയോഗി 
ക്കുന്നതിനും നിർവ്വഹിക്കുന്നതിനും സർ കാർ നിയമിച്ച 

കോട്ടയം ജില്ലം 
പഞ്ചായത്ത് ആ ഫീസറെ, 1979 മാർച്ച് 7 -ാം തീയതി ആരംഭിക്കുന്നതും 1979 
ജൂലൈ 6 -ാം തീ യതി അവസാനിക്കുന്നതുമായ കാലത്തേക്ക് ഈ ആക്ററുമൂലം 
ഭേദഗതി ചെയ്ത പ്രധാന ആക്ററിലെ 55 -ാം വകുപ്പിൻറ ആവശ്യാർത്ഥം 
സ്പെ ഷ്യൽ ആ ഫീസായി കരുതേണ്ടതാണ്, 


യഥാ 


3 


4 . റ8 °ദാക്കലും ഒഴിവാക്കലും.- (1) കേരള പഞ്ചായത്ത ( ഭേദഗതി) 
ടാർ ഡിനൻസ്, 1979 (1979 - ലെ 7 ), ഇതിനാൽ റ 8 °മാക്കിയിരിക്കുന്നു . 

(2 ) അങ്ങനെ റ 8 ° 60 ക്കിയിരുന്നാൽകൂടി, - ( പസ്തുത ഓർഡിനൻസിന 
കീഴിലാ അഥവാ പ്രസ്തുത ഒാർഡിനൻസുമൂലം acദഗതി ചെയ്ത 
പ്രകാരമുളള ( പധാന ആക° ററിന്റെ കീഴിലം ചെയ്ത ഏതെങ്കിലും കാര്യമാ 
എടുത്ത ഏതെങ്കിലും നടപടിയോ അതതുസംഗതിപോലെ, 

ആക നിൻ 
കീഴിലോ അഥവാ ഈ ആക്ററുമൂലം ഭേദഗതി ചെയ്ത പ്രകാരമുളള ( പധാന 
ആക° ററിൻ കീഴിലോ ചെയ്തിട്ടുളളതോ എടുത്തിട്ടുളളതോ ആയി കരുതപ്പെ 
ടേതാണ് , 


( ശറിത്തർജ്ജമ ) 


പി , ജഗദമ്മ , 
അഡീഷണൽ ഹെഡം ( 9ാറിസ്ലേററർ, 


Kerala Gazette No. I dared 1st January 1980. 
PART I 


Section iv 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 


. 


Community Development, Harijan Welfaro and Local 55 

Administration ( C ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 
G.O.Rt.No. 3963 /79 /CDHW & LAD . Dated, Trivandrum ,18th December 1979 

S. R. O. No. 1 /80. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
section ( 2 ) of section 62 of the Kerala Pauchayats Act, 1960 ( 32 of 1960 ), the 
Government of Kerala , after consulting the Kumaramangalam and 
Manjalloor Panchayats, hereby exclude from the operation of the said Act, 
the public road specified in the Schedule below , which is vested in the 
said Panchayats. 


SCHEDULE 
1 . Name of Districts 

Idukki and Ernakulam 
2. Name of Taluk 

Thodupuzha and Muvattupuzha 
3. Nameof Village 

Kumaramangalam and Manjalloor 
4. Name of Panchayat Kumaramangalam and Manjalloor 
5. Name of road 

Mylakombu Madakathanam road 
6. Length of road 

2.95 km . 

( 1.6 km . in Kumaramangalam and 

1.35 km . in Manjalloor Panchayats) 
7. Width of road 

8 M. 
8. Important places through ... Mylakombu, Mattappara and 
which the road passes 

Madakkathanam 
9. Points at which the road .. Starts from Mylakombu_and ends at 
starts and ends 

Madakathanam in Kumara . 
mangalam Panchayat and starts 
from Madakkathanam and ends at 
Mattupara in Manjalloor 
Panchayat 


By order of the Governor, 

M. DANDAPANI, 
Special Stolary . 

(P.1.0 .) 


G. 2156 


2 


Explanatory Note 
( This does not form part of the notification but is intended to indicato 
its general purport) . 

As per G.O. Rt. 586 /79/PW . dated 21-3-1979 Government havo 
accorded sanction to transter the Mylakombu Madakathanam road to Public 
Works Department from Kumaramangalam Panchayat in Idukki District 
and Manjalloor Panchayat in Ernakulam District for the purpose of 
improvenients of the road with ihe concurrence of the concerned Panchayats 
as required under the proviso to subsection (2 ) of section 62 of the Kerala 
Panchayats Act. This notification is intended to exclude the above road 
from the operation of the provisions of the Kerala Panchayats Act. 


Kerala Gazette No. i dated 1st January 1980 . 
PART I 


Section iv 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Water & Transport ( Transport- C ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 


on 


No. 21052 / TC2/79 /W & T. Dated, Trivandrum , 28th November 1979 . 

S. R. O. No. 2 80. — Whereas representations have been received 
by the Government from the Stage Carriage, Operators specified in the 
annexure to this notification , that the vehicle tax for the quarter ended on 
the 30th September, 1979, in respect of the Stage Carriages particulars of 
which are specified in the said annexure could not be remitted on or before 
the 16th August , 1979. as ordered in Notification No. G. O. Rt. 584/ 
79 /W & T dated the 14th September, 1979 published as S R. O.No. 1032/79 
in the Kerala Gazette Extraordinary No. 650 dated the 14th September , 1979 
due to financial strain and that extension of time for payment of tax in 
respect of these vehicles may , therefore, be granted ; 

And whereas , the Government are convinced that circumstances existed 
that the said Stage Carriage Operators could not remit the vebicle tax on 
or before, the 16th day of August, 1979, in respect of the said Stage Carriages 
ordinarily kept for use in this State for the quarter ended the 
30th September, 1979 due to financial strain ; 

And whereas, the Government are convinced that the non -operation 
of the said stage carriages due to non - payment of tax would have caused 
great inconvenience to the travelling public ; 

And whereas the Government consider it necessary to extend in public 
interest the time for payment of vehicle tax in respect of the said stage 
carriages; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 22 of the 
Kerala Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1976 (19 of 1976 ), read with rule 5 
of Kerala Motor Vehicles Taxation Rules, 1975 , the Government of 
Kerala , hereby order that the vehicle tax for the quarter ended on the 
30th September, 1979 in respect of the said stage carriages ordinarily kept for 
use in the State shall be paid on or before the 15th day of September, 1979 
together with additional tax pay able under section 12 of "he Kerala Motor 
Vehicles Taxation Act, 1976 read with the Notification (5 ) No. 33442/ C2 / 
75-5 /PW . dated the 29th September, 1979 published as S RO. No. 876/75 
in the Kerala Gazette, Extraordinary No. 572 dated the 29th 
September, 1975 . 

G. 2004 


2 


Annexure 


SI No. 


Name of Registered Owner 


Registration No. of the 

Stage Carriage 


1 . 
2 . 
3 . 
4 . 


P. S. John 
Chembakam Sadasivan 
K. K. Siyasankaran Kartha 
Gayathri Motor Service 


5 . 
6 . 
7 . 
8 . 

9 . 
10 . 
11 . 
12 . 
13 . 
14 . 
15 . 
16 . 
17 . 


P. Kunhi Kannan 
P. Sankaran Naic 
M.N. Ambujakshan 
Sarafin 
C. N. Neelacantan 
K. C. Cheriyan 
K. V. Ramanan 
T. A. Xavior 
P. R. Rajappan 
M /s Pradeep Transport 
M /s Annai Velankanni Transport 
Maharun Nisa 
E T. Joseph 


KLA . 4266 
KRE . 794 i 
KLR . 7556 
KLE . 5545 , 
MSN . 414 
KLC . 3577 
KLO . 6328 
KLE . 6803 
KRE . 5317 
KLA . 4512 
KLA . 7623 
KLA . 1552 
KRF. 1129 
KLO . 7047 
KLE . 4917 
KLF . 2674 
KLU . 3394 
KLO . 3107 & 
KLO . 5425 
KLK . 9157 
KLF . 7573 
KLE . 4327 
KLO . 1119 
KLO . 2195 
KLF . 2630 
KLF , 37 
KLF . 3517 
KRE . 793 
KRE . 9050 , 
KLH . 3048 
KLQ . 8271 


18 . 
19 . 
20 . 
21. 
22 . 
23 . 
24 . 
25 . 
26 . 
27 . 


K. S. Devassia 
K. P. Augustine 
K. I. Kumaran 
Varghese Xavior 
John Varghese 
K. Radhakrishna Menon 
K. Sarojam 
M.S. Raveendranatha Pillai 
T. J. Joseph 
A. J. Norbert 


28 . 


M. Abdul Shukoor 


By order of the Governor, 

P. SANKARAN NAIR , 
Additional Secretary . 


3 


Explanatory Note 
(This is not part of the notification , but is intended to explain the 
reason for the issue of the notification ). 

Government have received certain representation from the Stage 
Carriage Operators as shown in the annexure requesting extension of time 
for payment of vehicle tax for the quarter ending 30-9-1979 due to financial 
strain and they have represented that the vehicle tax in respect of the 
motor vehicles shown in the annexure could not be remitted in time 
due to financial strain and urged for extension of time for payment of tax in 
respect of these vehicles. 

Government are convinced of the position and in public interest grant 
extension of time for payment of tax as notified as otherwise these vehicles 
might be put out of operation for non - payment of tax causing great 
inconvenience to the travelling public. 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 
PART 1 


Section iv 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Agriculture (PLG . II) Department 

NOTIFICATION 


G. O , Ms. No. 445 /79 /AD . 

Dated , Trivandrum , 6th December 1979 . 
S. R. O. No. 3 /80. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 63 of the Kerala Agricultural University Act, 1971 ( 33 of 1971), the 
Government of Kerala hereby make the following Statutes prescribing the 
qualifications, method of appointment etc. for the post of Laboratory 
Assistants, Grade II under the Kerala Agricultural University , namely : 


Statutes 
1. Qualification .--- (a ) A pass in S. S. L. C. or equivalent qualification , 
and 

(b ) Two years experience in Laboratory work or course work in the 
College Classes with Science or Agriculture subjects. 
Explanation – The terms Course work means a course of study with 

subjects like Physics, Chemistry, Biology or Agriculture in 

the Intermediate Pre-degree classes. 
2 . Method of appointment . (i) By promotion from the category of 
Laboratory Attenders/Laboratory Keepers. 

( ii ) In the absence of suitable candidates for appointment by 
promotion , by direct recruitment. 

3. Salary and Allowances. - Salary and allowances attached to the post 
shall be such asmay be fixed from time to time by the Executive Committee 
the Kerala Agricultural University. 

4. Age-limit .- Age for direct recruitment shall be 30 years as on first 
day of January of the year in which applications for appointment are 
invited . Five years of relaxation in age limit shall be allowed to the 
Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes as per the existing Rules applicable for 
sery.ce under the Government of Kerala . 

5. Duties.- (1) Sampling , processing , bottling and labelling of 
materials such as plant and soil samples, fertilizers , etc. received for 
laboratory studies; 

The proper upkeep and maintenance of different items of 
laboratory equipments such as balances, water bottles ,distillation units etc ; 

. ? 128 . 


2 
(3) The preparation of laboratory reagents and solutions required 
for different experiments ; 
(4) Attending to the general 

neatness and cleanliness of the 
Laboratory ; and 

(5) Any other work which may be assigned by the Head of Depart 
ment from time to time. 

By order of the Governor , 
P. SHANMUGHASUNDARAM , 

Secretary. 


Explanatory Note 
(This does not form part of the notification , but is intended to indicate 
its general purport) 

Section 63 ofthe Kerala Agricultural University Act , 1971 (33 of 1971) 
provides that the first Statutes of the University shall be made by the 
Government. The first statutes prescribing the qualifications, method of 
appointment etc. for the post of Laboratory Assistants , Grade 11 under the 
Kerala Agricultural University has not been made so far . 

This notification is to prescribe the first statutes in respect of the 
qualifications, method of appointment, etc. for the above -mentioned post. 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 . 
PARTI 


Section iv 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Local Administration and Social Welfare (C ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 
G.O. Rt. 3962/79 /LA & SWD. Datod , Trivandrum , 18th December 1979 . 

S. R. O. No. 6 /80. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
section (2) of section 62 of the Kerala Panchayats Act, 1960 (32 of 1960 ) , 
the Government of Kerala , after consulting the Ayroor and Thottap 
puzhassery Panchayats , hereby exclude from the operation of the suid Act , 
the public road specified in the Schedule, below which is vested in the 
Panchayats . 

SCHEDULE 
1. Name of District 

Alleppey 
2 . Name of Taluk 

Thiruvalla 
3 . Name of Villages 

Ayroor and Thottapuzhassery 
4. Name of Panchayats Ayroor and Thottapuzhassery 
5. Name of road 

Assan road (from Kavumukku to 

Tnottaveli) 
6. Length of road 

2.4 kms. 
7. Width of road 

6 Metres 
8. Important places through Kavumukku, Vellakkalamukku , 
which the road passes 

P. I. P. Canal Junction , Thotta 

valli 
9. Points at which the road .. Starts from Kavumukku and ends at 
starts and ends 

Thottaveli 

By order of the Governor, 

M. DANDAPANI, 

Special Sacrofary . 
Esplanatory Note 
( This docs not form part of the notification but is intended to indicato 
its general purport .) 
As 

per G. O. Rt. No. 1053 /78 / PW . dated 30-6-1978 Government have 
accorded sanction to transfer the Assan road from Kavumukku to Thottaveli 
to the Public Works Department from the Ayroor and Thottapuzhasseri 
Panchayats for the purpose of better improvements of the road with the 
concurrence of the concerned panchayats as required under the proviso to sub 
section (2 ) of section 62 of the Kerala Panchayats Act . This notification is 
intended to exclude the above road from the operation of the provisions of 
tho Kerala Panchayats Act . 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 . 
PARTI 


Section iv 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Revenue (F ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 


G.O. (Rt.) No. 1844 /79/RD . Dated , Trivandrum , 12th December 1979 . 

S. R. O. No 7 /80.-Under section 13 of the Madras 
Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Act, 1951 (Madras Act XIX 
of 1951), the Government of Kerala hereby appoint Shri N. Gopala 
Panicker , Angad,kad Kalam , P. O. Karimpa , Palghat District as a memer 
of the Area Committee, Palghat for a period of three years from the date of 
publication of this notification in the Gazette . 

By order of the Governor, 

S. PERUMAL 

Joint Secretary . 
Explanatory Note 
( This does not form part of the notification but is intended to indicato 
its general purport.) 

The term of appointment of Shri N. K. G.Menon as Member of the 
Area Committee, Palghat expired on 27-9-1979. A new Member has to be 
appointed in the vacancy . 

The notification is to achieve this purpose . 


G. 2140 


Korala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1930 
PART I 


Section iv 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 


Revenue Department 

NOTIFICATION 


No. 58678 / E3 /79 /RD . 

Dated , Trivandrum , 41h December 1979 . 
S.R.O. No. 4 /80. - In exercise of the powers conferred by subsection ( 1) 
and ( 2 ) of section 3 of the Kerala Survey and Boundaries Act, 1961 (37 of 
1961 ), the Government of Kerala hereby appoint the Assistant Director of 
Survey and Land Records, (Resurvey), Malappuram to be a Survey Officer 
for all the purposes of the said Act and direct that he shall exercise the 
powers and perform the duties of a Survey officer within the local limits of 
Tirur Taluk in the Malappuram District. 


By order of the Governor , 
N. GOPALAKRISHNAN NAIR , 

Special Socretary . 


Explanatory Note 
( This is not part of the notification but is intended to indicate 
its general purport ) . 

For taking up the resurvey of Malappuram District an Officer, has to 
be appointed under section 3 (2) of the Kerala Survey and Boundaries Act, 
1961 ( 37 of 1961) as Survey Officer. The notification is intended to achieve 
this purpose. 


G. 2004 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 . 
PART I 


Section ly 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Local Administration and Social Welfare ( J) Department 

NOTIFICATION 
G.O. (Ms. ) No. 295 /79 /LA & SWD . Dated, Trivandrum , 11th December 1979. 

S. R. O. No. 5 / 80. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
section (1 ) of section 2 of the Kerala Public Services Act, 1968 
(19 of 1968), the Government of Kerala hereby make the following amend . 
ment to the ru es in respect of the Special Recruitment from among members 
of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes for the post of Senior Superintendent, 
Panchayat Department, issued in G. O. ( 1s.) . 111 /74/LA & SWD 
dated the 21st May , 1974 and published as S. R. O. No. 444/74 in Part I of 
the Kerala Gazette No. 25 dated the 18th June , 1974 as subsequently 
amended , namely : 

AMENDMENT 
1. Short title and commencement. - (1) These rules may be called 
the rules in respect of the Special Recruitment from among members of 
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the post of Senior 
Superintendent, Panchayat Department (Amendment) Rules , 1979 . 

(2) They shall come into force at once . 

2. In the rules in respect of Special recruitment from among members 
of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the post of Senior 
Superintendent, Panchayat Department in rule 4 for item 5 , the following 
shall be substituted namely : 
" Office of the Taluk Panchayat Officer " 

By order of the Governor , 

J. S. BADHAN , 

Special Secretary 
Explanatory Note 
( This note is not part of the notification , but is intended to indicate 
its general purport) . 

In G. O. Ms. 286 / 78 /LA & SWD . dated 22-12-1978 Government have 
sanctioned the Taluk level set up in the Panchayat Department by creating 
the post of Taluk Panchayat Officers. The post of Assessment Officers and 
their supporting staff have also been abolished simultaneously. As the 
Office of the Assessment Officers are not functioning the Trainees have to 
undergo training in the Office of the Taluk Panchayat Officer. This 
notification is intended to achieve the above object . 


1.2158 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 . 
PART I 


Section to 


the powers 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 

Home (C ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 
G. O. Rt. 2251/79 /Home. Dated, Trivandrum , 18th December 1979 . 
S. R. O. No. 8/80 .-- In exercise of 

conferred by 
subsection (8 ) of section 24 of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 
(Central Act 2 of 1974), the Government of Kerala hereby appoint 
Sri P. Velayudhan , Advocate Palghat as Special Public Prosecutor for the 
conduct of Prosecution in SC 9/79 of the Court of Sessions, Palghat. 

By order of the Governor , 
K. ACHUTHAN NAIR , 

Deputy Secretary. 
Explanatory Note 
( This is not part of the Notification , but is intended to achieve 
its general purport) . 

Government have considered it necessary to appoint Sri P. Velayudhan, 
Advocate, Palghat as Special Public Prosecutor for the conduct of 
Prosecution in SC 9/79 of Court of Sessions, Palghat. The notification is 
intended to achieve the above object. 


G. 2199 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1930 . 
PART I 


Soccon iv 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Local Administration and Social Welfare ( C ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 


G.O. Rt. No. 3961/79 . 

Dated , Trivandrum , 18th December 1979 . 
S. R. O , No. 9 /80. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
section (2) of section 62 of the Kerala Panchayats Act, 1960 (32 of 1960 ), the 
Government of Kerala , after consulting the Perumpazhuthur Panchayat, 
hereby exclude from the operation of the said Act, the public road specified 
in the Schedule below , which is vested in the said panchayat. 

SCHE LE 
1. Name of District 

Trivandrum 
2. Name of Taluk 

Neyyattinkara 
3. Name of Village 

Neyyattinkara 
4. Name of Panchayat 

Perumpazhuthur 
5 . Name of the road 

Perumpazhuthur-Aruvipuram road 
6. Length of the road 

2.055 km . 
7. Width of the road 

3.6 m . Average 
8. Important places it connects.. Perumpazhuthur Conservancy town 

and Aruvipuram River Bridge 
9. Name of Places at which .. Star s from Perumpazhuthur junction 
the road starts and ends and ends at Aruvipuram Bridge 

By order of the Governor , 

M. DANDAPANI, 

Special Secretary . 
Esplanatory Noto 
( This does not form part of the notification , but is 

intended to 
indicate its general purport). 

As per G. O. Rt. No. 426 /76 /PW . dated 13-3-1976 , the Government 
have accorded sanction to transfer the Perumpazhuthur Aruvipuram road 
to the Public Works Department from the Panchayat for the purpose of 
improvements of the road with the concurrence of the Panchayats required 
under the proviso to subsection 2 of section 62 of the Kerala Panchayats 
Act. This notification is intended to exclude the above road from the 
operation of the provisions of the Kerala Panchayats Act. 


G. 2154 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 . 
PART I 


Sectica iv 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Local Administration and Social Welfare ( J) Department 

NOTIFICATION 


G. O. (Ms.) 308/79 LA & SWD. Dated , Trivandrum , 20th December 1979 . 

S. R. O. No. 10 /80. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (d ) of subsection (1) of section 3 of the Kerala Panchayats Act, 1960 
( 32 of 1960 ) and at the req est of the Aryankode Panchayat in Neyyattin 
kara Taluk in Trivandrum District, in its resolution No. 13 dated 
1-2-1979 , the Government of Kerala hereby alter the Headquarters of the 
said Panchayat from " Ottasckharamangalam " to " Aryancode" with effect 
from 1-12-1979 . 


By order of the Governor , 

M. DANDAPANI, 

Special Secretary . 
Explanatory Note 
( This does not form part of the notification but is intended to indicate 
its general purport . ) 

As per the notification No. G. O. (Ms.) 100 /71/LAD dated 20th 
July , 1971, Government constituted the Aryancode Panchayat with head 
quarters at Ottasekharamangalam . The Aryankode Panchayat in its 
resolution dated 1-2-1979 has observed that the headquarters of the 
Panchayat is functioning at Aryancode from the date of its formation and 
that Ottasekharamangalam " is a separate Panchayat. The Panchayat has 
therefore, requested that the name of headquarters of the Panchayat may be 
changed as Aryancode instead of Ottasekbaramangalam . The Director of 
Panchayats has recommended the proposal. It is proposed to change the 
name of the headquarters of the Panchayat accordingly. The notification 
is intended to achieve this purpose . 


G , 2153 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 
PART I 


Section iv 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Home (C ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 


G. O. Ms. 171 /79 /Home. 

Dated , Trivandrum , 12th December 1979 . 
S.R.O.No. 11 /80. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Article 234 
of the Constitution of India , the Governor of Kerala is pleased to appoint 
Sri Prabhaker Naik , Assistant Public Prosecutor Grade 1, Tellicherry and 
Sri P. K. Somasundaran Nair, Judicial II Class Magistrate, Ernakulam as 
Munsiffs in the Kerala Civil Judicial Service. 

By order of the Governor, 
K. ACHUTHAN NAIR , 

Deputy Secretary . 


G. 2087 . 


Kerala Gazetie No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 . 
PARTI 


Section iv 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 


Abstract 


RULES - KERALA SERVICE RULES - TRAVELLING ALLOWANCE - NOTE 
BELOW RULE 59 PART II - KERALA SERV CE RULES 

AMENDMET - ISSUED 


FINANCE DEPARTMENT 
G. O. ( P ) 1027/79 Fin . Dated , Trivandrum , 23rd November 1979 . 


Read: -1 . 

2 . 
3 . 


G. O. ( P ) 837 /78 /Fin . dated 1- 2-1978 
G. O. ( P ) 597 /79/ Fin . dated 10-7-1979 
Letter No Co- Ord II /12-28 / TA /202/789 dated 20-9-1979 

from the Accou tant General. 


NOTIFICATION 
S. R. O. No 12/80 In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
section (1) of section 2 of Kerala Public Services Act, 1968 (19 of 1968 ), 
read with section thereof, the Government of Kerala hereby make the 
following amendment to the Ker- la Service Rules, namely : 

AMENDMENT 

C. S. No. 366/79 
1 . (i) These rules may be called the Kerala Service ( Amendment) 

Rulcs, 1979 . 
(ii) They shall come imo force at once . 
2 . In Part ii of the Kerala Service Rules, in Note I under rule 59 , 
for the words “ Delhi, Bombay ard Calcutta ” , the words " any city outside 
the State of Kerala " shall be substituted . 

By order of the Governor , 

K. J. THOMAS, 

Joint Secretary. 
r . 9147 


Explanatory Note 
( This is not part of the amendment, but is intended to indicate its 
general purport). 

In the G. O. read as ! st paper ahore, orders were issued for the pay nent 
of Daily Allowance at full rati- fo the first 30 days and 3 /4th of the rates 
for the next 60 days tu the officers deputed for training to Delhi, Bombay 
and Calcutta. 

In the G. O. read as second paper above, the benefit was extended to 
other cities outside the State als ). Hence the amendment . 


To 


The Accountant Genral. Kerala , Trivandrum 
All Heads of Departments and Offices 
All Departments and Sections of the Secretariat 
The Registrar , High Court, Ernakulam (with C. L 
The Registrar, University of Kerala /Cochin Calicur (with C. L. ). 
The Registrar , Agricultural University ,Minuthy (with C L. ) 
The Secretary, Kerala Public Service Commission with C. L.) 
The Secretary , Kerala State Electricity Board , Trivandrum (with C , L.) 
The General Manager, Kerala State Road Transport Corporation, 

Trivandrum ( w th C. L.) 
The Secretaries, Additional Secretaries, Joint Secretaries, Lepury 

Secretaries and Under Secretaries to Government, 
The Private Secret + ries to Chief Minister ard other Ministers 
The Secretary to Governor 
The Stenographer to the Chief Secretary 
The Director of Public Relations. 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1480. 
PARTI 


Section iv 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 


Fisheries & Ports (B ) Department 

NOTIFICATION 


No. 22282 /B1 /78/F & PD . 

Dated , Trivandrum , 11th December 1979 . 
S. R. O. No. 13/80.-- In exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (a ) of subsection ( 1) and subsection (2 ) of section 4 of the Indian 
Ports Act, 1908 (Central Act 15 of 1908 ) the Government of Kerala hereby 
make, the following amendment to the notification No.85661/B1/74 /DD dated 
the 19th December, 1975 published as S. R. O. No. 35/76 in Part I of 
the Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated the 6th January , 1976 namely : 


AMENDMENT 


In the schedule to the said notification 

( 1) for the words and bracket “ Azhiknde (Crançanore ) ” in 
column (2 ) under the heading Ports the word " Kodungallur" shall be 
substituted ; 

(2 ) in column (3 ) under the heading Port limit ( a ) for the words, 
figures and marks · Long 76 ° 03 5" against ihe entry North in words, figures 
and marks " Long 76. 03 5E "; shall be substituted . 

(b ) for the words, figures, letters and marks beginning with 
" Long 76 ° 11 6E " the following shall be substituted , namely: 

West - A straight line running north -south from positions 

Lat 10 ° 11 8N -Long 760.03 5E and Lat 10 ° .09 .4 N 

Long 76 ° 03 .5E .. 
East - A straight line running North - South through positions 

Lat 10° 11 .8N -Long 76 ° 11.6E and Lat 10 ° 09 .4N 
Long 76 ° 11 .6E ” 


By order of the Governor, 

S. KRISHNAKUMAR , 
Special Secretary 

( P.T o . ) 


G. 2088 


Explanatory Note 
( This does not form part of the notification , but is intended to give 
its general purpose) . 

Government have decided to change the name of the Port Azhikode 
( Cranganore) as Kodungallur as the place is generally known as 
Rodungallur only and this name has been adopted in all Government 
Records. It has also been decided to rectify the errors and omission 
occured in the Schedule published under the original notification . This 
notification is intended to achieve the above objects. 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980. 
PART IA 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 


Election Department 

NOTIFICATION 


No. 10285/EL1/79/Elec. 

Dated, Trivandrum , 30th November, 1979 . 
Notification No. 82/KL-HP/ 18 /77 dated 19th November, 1979 of the 
Election Commission of India and the Judgement of the Supreme Court of 
India in Civil appeal No. 11 (NCE) of 1978 is hereby re- published . 


By order, 


J. S. JESUDHASAN , 
Special Secretary ( Home) & 
Chief Electoral Officer. 


INDIA 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF 


Nirvachan Sadan , 

Ashok Road , 
New Delhi-110001. 


Dated , 19th November 1979 


28th Kartika 1901 (Saka). 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 82/KL-HP / 18 / 77. - In pursuance of clause (b ) of sub -s (2 ) 
of section 116 C of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election 
Comi..ission hereby publishes the Judgement of the Supreme Court of India 
dated the 7th November, 1979 in Civil Appeal No. 11 (NCE) of 1978 against 
the judgement_dated 6th December, 1977 : of the High Court of Kerala , 
Ernakulam in Election Petition No. 18 of 1977 . 
G. 2089/MC 


2 


In the Supreme Court of India 


CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION 


CIVIL APPEAL No. 11 (NCE) OF 1978 
Ebrahim Sulaiman Sait . 

Appellant 

Vs. 
M. C. Mohammed and another... 

.Respondents 
JUDGMENT 
Gupta, J. 

This is an appeal under section 116 - A of the Representation of thc 
People Act, 1951 . 


The election of the appellant to Lok Sabha from Manjeri Parliamentary 
Constituency in Kerala was declared void by the High Court of Kerala at 
Ernakulam on an election petition presented on May 3, 1977 by the first 
respondent who was an elector in that constituency on the ground that the 
returned candidate was guilty of corrupt practice mentioned in subsection 
(3A ) of section 123 of the Act. The appellant was a candidate of the Muslim 
League ; the second respondent before us contested the election as a nomince 
of a dissident group of the Muslim League described as “ Muslim League 
(Opposition )" supported by, as stated in the election petition , “ Janata 
Party and Marxist Party " . 

Section 123 (3A ) reads: 

" 123. Corrupt practices. The following shall be deemed to be corrupt 
practices for the purposes of this Act: 


(3A) The promotion of, or attempt to promote, feelings of enmity or 
hatred between different classes of the citizens of India on grounds of 
religion , race, caste, community, or language, by a candidate or his 
agent or any other person with the consent of a candidate or his election 
agent for the furtherance of the prospects of the election of that candi 

date or for prejudicially affecting the election of any candidate." 
It is said that during the election campaign the appellantmade a speech in 
English at a place called Pullickal within the said constituency and a report 
of this speech translated into Malayalam appeared in the local daily 
CHANDRIKA in its issue of March 17, 1977 which, it is alleged , falls with 
in the mischief of section 123 (3A ). The election petition contains several 
other allegations but as the decision of the High Court is based on this 
ground only, it is not necessary to refer to them . As already stated , the 
report of the speech (Ext. P - 6 ) is a translated version in Malayalam of the 
substance of the speech delivered in English . 


3 


Mr. Nariman appearing for the appellant contended that as the full taxt 
of the speech was not available, it would be unsafe to draw any conclusion 
from the speech as reported : This contention which was also raised before 
the High Court is in our opinion , adequately answered in the impugned 
judgement. 


The High Court says : 


" It is true that Ext. P - 6 does not purport to contain the full speech , 
but the important aspect which has to be noted is that no contention 
has been raised in the written statement to the effect that there were 
other portions in the speech of the first respondent which mitigated 
the evil contained in Ext. P - 6 ....When the 1st respondent gave 
evidence as R. W. I there was not even a distant suggestion that 
for want of production of the entire speech Ext. P - 6 could not be relied 
on . Again , when the petitioner gave evidence as P. W. 1 no question 
was asked to him regarding the other matters, if any , spoken by the 

first respondent." 
The first respondent in High Court is the appellant before us. In this affida 
vit answering the allegations made in the election petition, the appellant 
admits that though it was not possible for him " at this distance of time to 
recall ” what exactly he had stated in the speech , " the reporter s version of 
the speech does more or less tally " with the views expressed by the 
appellant in the meeting . We are therefore unable to agree that the report 
of the speech Ext. P - 6 . cannot be relied on . 

The speech as reported in CHANDRIKA is as follows: 

“ The Indian Union Muslim League President, Suleiman Sait said at 
Pullickal today that the Society will never forgive the anti -religious 
league people . It is because these people had helped the Jansangh 
which had killed many Muslims in Northern India and at Tellicherry 
and had burnt the Sacred mosques. There people have also been 
leading the poor Muslims towards the camp of communal reactionaries 
and therefore society can never forgive them . 

He said that these anti-religious people were by spreading lies and 
false propaganda blackening the faces of the leaders and giving away 
the secrets of our society to Marxists and the Hindu leaders. He 
remainded the anti-religious league that by doing this they were 
destroying that institution which was fed and brought up by Merhyum 
Khaode Millat Ismail Sahaib and Bafaki Thangal. 

He continued that Janatha Party, which is formed under the 
guidance of Jansangh is an orphanage of all those political leaders 
who did not secure any seats or who had separated from their original 
party. These parties, he said, will not be allowed to see the assembly 


4 


or parliament. He made it very clear that the anti-religious parties 
must not entertain the fact hopes of securing the votes of any Muslim , 
in whose head the Islam s blood was flowing 

... 
Janab Sait Sahib was addressing a large gathering at the public 
meeting of the united front held at Pullickal. The meeting was presided 
over by Charukovu Panchayat President P. P. AbdulGafoor Moulavi. 

The meeting was inaugurated by P. P. Ummarkoya." 
Mr.Nariman submitted that it was necessary to ascertain the true scope and 
effect of sub-section (3A ) of section 123 before considering whether the speech 
fell within the mischief of that sub -section and for that purpose, according 
to Mr. Nariman , section 123 (3A ) must be read with section 125 of the Act. 
Part VII of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 deals with " Corrupt 
Practices and ElectoralOffences" . Section 123 is in Chapter I of Part VII 
which catalogues the Corrupt Practices and section 125 is in Chapter III of 
that part which lists the Electoral Offences. Section 125 provides: 

" 125. Promoting enmity between classes in connection with election . - Any 
person who in connection with an election under this Act, promotes or 
attempts to promote on grounds of religion , race, caste, community or 
language, feelings of enmity or hatred , between different classes of the 
citizens of India shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which 

may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both ." 
It is true that the act that is called a corrupt practices in section 123 ( 3A ) is 
also what constitutes an electoral offence under section 125 but to attract 
123 (3A ) the act must be done by the candidate or his agent or any other 
person with the consent of the candidate or his agent, and for the further 
ance of the election of that candidate or for prejudicially affecting the election 
of any candidate, but under section 125 any person is punishable who is 
guilty of such an act and the motive behind the act is not stated to be an 
ingredient of the offence. We do not find any reason why the two provisions 
section 123 (3A ) and section 125, must be read together to ascertain thescope 
and effect of section 123 (3A ). Mr. Nariman s contention is that reading 
section 123 (3A ) in the light of section 125 we should hold that incitement to 
violence or likelihood of public disorder is one of the requirements of the 
corrupt practice mentioned in section 123 (3A ) and that in the absence of 
any evidence in this case on that aspect the corrupt practice alleged against 
the appellant cannot be said to have been established . Mr. Nariman referred 
to Kedar Nath Singh v . State of Bihart in support of his contention . In Kedar 
Nath s . case in order to s ve section 124 A of the Indian Penal Code, 
(which makes sedition an offence) from being questioned as infringing the 
freedom of speech and expression guaranteed by the constitution , this Court 
limited the application of the provision to acts involving in ention or tedency 
to create disorder, or disturbance of law and order, or incitement to violence. 
Whether the electoral offence mentioned in section 125 of the Act should be 
read as requiring a similar ingredient does not arise for consideration in this 
case ; in our opinion the provisions of section 125 are not relevant to ascertain 


5 


the scope and application ofsection 123 ( 3A ) . As to whether section 123 (3A ) 
can be impugned on the ground that it violates article 19 ( 1) (a ) of the 
Constitution , the question has been answered in Jumuna Prasad Mukhariya 
and others v. Lachhi Ram and others. In that case this court overruled the 
contention that sections 123 (5 ) and 124 (5 ) of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, as the provisions stood at the time, were ultra vires Article 
19.(1) (a) of the Constitution. Section 124 (5) which made " systematic 
appeal to vote or refrain from voting on grounds of caste, race, community 
or religion " a minor corrupt practice is similar to section 123 (3A ) of the 
Act as it stands now . Bose J. speaking for the Court in Jumuna Prasad s 
case observed : “ These laws do not stop a man from speaking. They merely 
prescribe conditions which must be observed if he wants to enter Parliament. 
The right to stand as a candidate and contest an election is not a common 
law right. It is a special right created by statute and can only be exercised 
on the conditions laid down by the statute. The Fundamental Rights 
chapter has no bearing on a right like this created by statute. The appel 
lant have no fundamental right to be elected members of Parliament. If 
they want that they must observe the rules. If they prefer to exercise their 
right of free speech outside these rules , the impugned sections do not stop 
them . We hold that these sections are intra vires." We are therefore unable 
to accept the constructions of section 123 (3A ) as suggested by Mr. Nariman. 

Mr. Nariman s next contention was that a political party could not be 
described as a " class" in the sense in which the expression classes of the 
citizens of India " has been used in section 123 (3A ), that whatever the 
appellant had said in his speech was directed against a political party, 
Muslim League (Opposition ), and therefore the speech did not fall within the 
mischief of that provisions. Wedo not find it necessary to consider whether 
a political party is a class within the meaning of section 123 (3A ). The 
question for decision is whether the speech delivered by the appellant pro 
moted or attempted to promote feelings of enmity or hatred between different 
classes of the citizens of India on the ground of religion . A speech , though 
its immediate target is a political party, may yet be such as to promote 
feelings of enmity or hatred between different classes of citizens. It is 
the likely effect of the speech on the veters that has to be considered . We 
also find no substance in another contention urged by Mr. Nariman that 
section 123 (3A) was inapplicable to this case because the appellant and the 
candidate of the Muslim League (Opposition ) were both Muslims. This 
Court in Kultar Singh v. Mukhtier Singhe held that a corrupt practice under 
section 123 " can be committed by a candidate by appealing to the voters to 
vote for him on the ground of his religion even though his rival candidate 
may belong to the same religion ” . 

The following portions of the speech reproduced above have been alleged 
as objectionable: 

The first paragraph of the speech as reported contains a statement that 
the society will not forgive the anti-religious League. People , meaning the 


6 


Muslim League (Opposition ), because oftheir alliance with Jansangh that 
had killed many Muslims in Northern India and also at Tellicherry and had 
burnt mosques and , further , that these people had been driving the poor 
Muslims to the camp of the communal reactionaries. In the second 
paragraph of the report, it is alleged that these anti-religious people were 
giving away the secrets of " our society " to " Marxists and Hindu leaders" . 
The third paragraph states that the speaker made it clear that these anti 
religious partion must not entertain the hope of securing the votes of Muslims 
" in whose head the Islam s blood was flowing" . Mr. Nariman submitted 
that the allegations as regards the killing of Muslims and the burning of 
mosques were based on facts and he referred to the report of the Commission 
of Inquiry that investigated the facts relating to the disturbances which took 
place in Tellicherry in 1971. In our opinion truth is not an answer to a 
charge of corrupt practice under section 123 ( 3A ) ; -what is relevant is whether 
the speech promoted or sought to promote feelings of enmity or hatred as 
mentioned in that provision. If it is found that this- was so , than it is im 
material whether what was said was based on facts or not, especially when 
in this case the events mentioned occurred years ago . 

Turning now to the speech, the allegations of killing of Muslims and 
burning ofmosques appear to have been made against Jansangh which is a 
political party 

It is not claimed that this is a party whose membership is 
restricted to Hindus only . The members of the Muslim League (Opposition ) 
are described as " anti-religious people” but as held by this Court in Kanti 
Prasad Jayshanker. Yagnik v. Purushottamdas Ranchhoddas Patel and others the 
law does not place any bar on describing a party as irreligious. Then it is 
said that these people were " giving away the " secrets" of the Muslim society 
to " Marxist and the Hindu leaders" . It is not clear what was the nature of 
the " secrets" which were being passed on to the Hindu leaders and to the 
Marxists. It is to be noted that the recipients of the information were not 
only the Hindu leaders but the Marxists as well. The speech appears to 
have ended with the assertion expressed in rather high flown language that 
the anti-religious parties had no hopes of securing the vote of any Muslim 
" in whose head the Islam s blood was flowing" : 

Reading the speech as a whole it cannot be denied that its tone is 
communal, but in this country communal parties are allowed to function in 
politics. That being so, how an appeal to the voters, such as the one made 
in the speech in question, should be viewed in the context of corrupt practices 
mentioned in the Act, has been explained by Gajendragadkar, C. J. speaking 
for the Court in Kultar Singh v. Mukhtiar Singh " : 

" It is well-known that there are several parties in this country which 
subscribe to different political and economic ideologies, but the member 
ship of them is either confined to , or predominantly held by , members 
of particular communities or religions. So long as law does not prohibit 
the formation of such parties and in fact recognises them for the purpose 
of clection and parliamentary life, it would be necessary to remember 


7 


that an appeal made by such candidates of such parties for votes may, if 
successful, lead to their election and in an indirect way , may concei 
vably be influenced by considerations of religion , race, caste, community 
or language. This infirmity cannot perhaps be avoided so long as 
parties are allowed to function and are recognised , though their compo 
sition may be predominantly based on membership of particular 
communities or religion " . 

To indicate the effect of the speech on the minds of the ordinary voters, 
the election petitioner examined two witnesses, P.W.2 and P. W.4. P. W.2 
P. C. Mohammed said that after listening to the appellant s speech , " the 
Muslim voters looked with hatred at those people who stood against them " . 
But when questioned as to which sentence in the speech attempted to pro 
mote the feeling of hatred , the witness referred to the first sentence and 
he himself went on to say that " what the sentence really means is that it is 
not proper to unite with Jansangh " . P. W. 4 Hidre also said in thebegin 
ning that the speech was " intended to destroy communal harmony " , but 
he himself admitted later in his testimony that the only effect of the speech 
was that after the meeting people were saying that " the Opposition League 
candidate must be defeated . Itseems to us that the speech sought to 
criticise the wrong policy of the Muslim League (Opposition ) in aligning with 
parties that were allegedly responsible for atrocities against the Muslims and 
not just to emphasise the atrocities. In our opinion it cannot be said that 
the speech falls within the mischief of section 123 (3A ) of the Act; we have 
reached this conclusion keeping in mind the well established principle that 
the allegation of corrupt practice must be proved beyond reasonable doubt. 
The appeal is allowed with costs and the election petition is dismissed . 

( Sd.) J. 
A. C. Gupta 

(Sd.) J. 
New Delhi, 

P. S. Kailasam 
November 7 , 1979 . 


By order, 

(Sd .) 

K. GANESAN , 
Secretary to the Election Commission of India . 


(1962 ) Suppl. 2 S. C. R. 769 
(1955 ) 1 S. C. R. 608 
* 1964 ) 7 S. C. R. 790 
(1969 ) 3 S. C. R. 400 


Kerala Gazette No. 1 dated 1st January 1980 . 
PART III 

Weights and Measures Department 

NOTIFICATION 
No. B1-15615 /79 . 

13th November 1979 . 
In exercise of the powers conferred by subsection ( 1) of section 15 of 
the Kerala Weights and Measures ( Enforcement) Act, 1958 read with 
GovernmentNotification No. 17018/64/MI/RD dated 15-7-1964 of Revenue 
(M ) Department and in supersession of all notifications on the subject issued 
previously the Controller of Weights and Measures, Kerala hereby 

authorises the officers mentioned in column (1 ) of the Schedule hereto 
: annexed to be Inspectors of Weights and Measures and under subsection (2 ) 

of section 15 of the said Act read with the above notification defines under 
column (2 ) of the schedule the local limits within which each Inspector 
shall exercise the powers and discharge the duties conferred or imposed on 
him by or under the said Act with effect from the 1st day of January 1980 . 

SCHEDULE 
Name of Officers 

Jurisdiction 
(1) 

( 2 ) 
( 1) Divisional Inspector of Within the whole area comprising 

Weights and Measures, the taluk of Trivandrum . 

Trivandrum . 
( 2) Divisional Inspector of Within the whole area comprising 

Weights and Measures, the taluk of Chirayinkil and the 
Attingal. 

twelve panchayats viz. Vamanapuram , 
Nellanadu , Manickal, Pullampara , 
Kallara , Panavoor , Vembayam , 
Anadu, Nanniyode , Peringammala , 
Vithura 

Tholikode of the 

Nedumangadu taluk . 
( 3) Divisional Inspector of Within the whole area comprising 

Weights and Measures , the taluk of Neyyattinkara, the 
Neyyattinkara . 

Nedumangadu Municipality and the 
six panchayats 

viz . Karakulam , 
Aruvikara, Aryanadu, Vellanadu, 
Kuttichal and Poovachal of the 

Nedumangadu taluk . 
Divisional Inspector of 

Within the whole area comprising 
Weights and Measures, the taluk of Quilon , the two 

panchayats 
Quilon . 

viz . 

Kareepra and 
Ezhukone of the Kottarakara taluk 
and the four panchayats viz . Chavara , 
Thekkumbhagom , 

Panmana and 
Thevalakara of the Karunagappally 

taluk . 
G932 /S . 


and 


( 4 ) 


N 


(5 ) 


(1 ) 
Divisional Insp.:ctor of 
Weights and M -asures, 
Adoor . 


( 2 ) 
Within the whole area comprising 
the taluk of Kunnathur, the three 
panchayats viz. Mylom , Pavithre 
Swaram and Kulakada ) of the 
Kottarakara taluk and the eight 
panchayats viz. Ochira , Alappadu, 
Karunagappally, Thazha va, 
Thodiyoor, Kulasekharapuram , 
Mynagappally and Klappana of the 
Karunag -ppally taluk . 

Within the whole area comprising 
the taluk of Pathanapuram and 
the fourteen panchayats viz. 
Kottarakara, Naduvathur, 
Pouyappally , 

Veliyom , 

Melila , 
Vettikkavala , Ummannoor, Nilamel, 
Elamadu , Velinalloor, Ittiva, 
Chadayamangalam , Kadakkal and 
Chithara of the Kottarakara taluk . 

Within the whole area comprising 
the taluk of Pathanamthitta . 


(6 ) 


Divisional Insp.ctor of 
Weigh s and Measures , 
Punalur . 


( 7) Divisional Inspactor of 

Wei hts and Measures , 

Pathanamthitta . 
(8 ) Di isional Inspector of 

Weigh : s and Measures, 
Alleppey . 


Within the whole area comprising 
the taluk of Kuttanadu Alleppey 
Municipality and the three panchayats 
viz . Ambalapuzh , Purakadu and 
Punnapra of the Ambalappuzha taluk 
and the nine panchayats viz . 
Cheruthana , Chingoli , Harippadu, 
Karthik a p p ally , Karuvatta , 
Kumarapuram , Pallip padu, 
Thrikkunnappuzha and Veeyapuram 
of the Karthigappally taluk . 

Within the whole area comprising 
the taluk of Mavelikara and the 
Municipality of Kayamkulam and the 
Seven panchayats, viz . Arattupuzha, 
Cheppadu , Kandallur, Muthukulam , 
Pathiyoor, Devikulangara and 
Krishnapuram of the Karthikappally 
taluk. 

Within the whole area comprising 
the taluks 

of Thiruvalla and 
Chengannur . 


( 9) 


Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures, 
Mavelikara . 


(10 ) Divisional Inspector of 

Weights and Measures , 
Thiruvella . 


3 


( 11) Divisional lasp :ctor of 

Weigh s and Measures , 
Shertallai. 


(12 ) 


Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures, 
Kottayam . 


( 13 ) 


Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures , 
Palai . 


( 2 ) 
Within the whole rea comprising 
the taluk Sheitallai and the three 
panchayats viz. Aryadu, Mannan 
cherry and Mara ikulam South of the 
Ambalapuzha taluk . 

Within the whole area comprising 
the taluk of Chan anacherry and the 
Municipality of Kottayam and the 
eight panchayats viz Nattakom , 
Pana chikka du, Vijayapuram , 
Puthupally , Pampady , Kooroppada , 
Akalakkunnam and Anikadu of the 
Kottayam taluk. 

Within the whole arca comprising 
the taluk of Kanjirappally and the 
Municipality of Palai and nineteen 
panchaiats viz . Elakkadu, Uzhavur, 
Ramapuram , Veliyannur, Karoor , 
Mutholi, Kozhuvanal, Meenachil , 
Bhar nanganam , 

Kada nad , 
Melukavu , Valiyakumaramangalam , 
Thalappalam , Erattupettah , Teekoy , 
Thalanadu , Poonjar, Poojar 
Thekkckkara and Thidanad of ihe 
Meenachil taluk . 

Within the whole area compr sing 
the taluk of Vaikom , three 
panchayats viz . M nakkary , 
Kuravilangadu ar d Kidangoor of the 
Mrenach 1 taluk and nin panchayats 
viz . Kumarakom , Thiruvarppu, 
Aymanom , Neendoor, Arpookara , 
Kumaranállur, Athirampuzha , 
Ettumanoor and Ayarkunnam of the 
Kottayam taluk. 

Within the whrle area comprising 
the taluks of Thodupuzha and 
Devicolam . 

Within the whole area comprising 
the taluks of Peermade and 
Udumbanchola , 


( 14 ) 


Divisional Inspector of 
Wrights and Mcasures, 
Vaikom . 


( 15 ) 


Divisional Inspector of 
Wrights a : d Measures, 
Thodupuzha . 
Divisional Insp ctor of 
Weights and Measures, 
Peermade. 


( 16 ) 


4 


(17 ) 


(2 ) 
Within the whole area comprising 
the revenue district of Ernakulam . 


( 1 ) 
Additional Insp ctor of 
Weights and Measurcs, 
Ernakulam . 
Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures, 
Ernakulanı. 


(18 ) 


( 19 ) 


Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures , 
Alwaye. 


( 20 ) 


Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures, 
Muvattupuzha . 
Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Mcasures, 
Perumbavoor . 


(21) 


Within the whole area comprising 
the ( orporation of Cochin and two 
panchayats viz . Chellanam 

and 
Kumbalangy of the Cochin taluk . 

Within the whole area comprising 
the two taluks of Alwaye and Parur 
and 

the six panchayats viz . 
Pallippuram , Kuzhuppilly, 
Edavan a kad u , Nayarambalam , 
Najakkal and Elamkunnapuzha of 
the Cochin taluk . 

Within the whole area comprising 
the two taluks of Muvattupuzha and 
Kothamangalam . 

Within the whole area comprising 
the taluk of Kunnathunadu and the 
Municip lity of Thripunithura and 
the thirteen panchayats viz , 
Mulavukadu, Amballur, Edakkattu 
vayal, Chottanikara , Udayamperoor, 
Mulanthuruthy, 

Thiruvankulam , 
Maradu, Kumbalam , Thrikkakara , 
Kalamassery, 

Cheranallur, 
Kadamakudy of the Kanayannur 
taluk . 

Within the whole arca comprising 
the taluk of Trichur and the six 
panchayats viz . 

Alagappanagar, 
Kodakara , Mattathur, Trikkur 
Varandarappilly and Pudukkadu of 
theMukundapuram taluk. 

Within the whole area comprising 
the taluk of Kodungallur and the two 
Municipalities viz . Irinjalakuda and 
Chalakkudy and the seventeen 
pancha vats viz. Kuzh ur, 
Annamanada . Mala, Padiyoor 
Puthenchira , Vellar gallur, Velukara , 
Kodesserry, Kallur Vadakkummury , 
Koratty, Melur, Pariyaram , Kattur, 


(22) 


Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures , 
Trichur . 


(23 ) 


DivisionalInspector of 
Weights and Measures, 
Kodungallur. 


5 


( 1) 


( 24) 


Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures, 
Vadakkancherry . 
Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures, 
Palghat . 


(25 ) 


(26 ) 


Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures, 
Ottappalam , 


( 2 ) 
Muriyad, 

Alur Parappukara , 
Porathisseri of the Mukundapuram 
taluk . 

Within the whole area comprising 
the two taluks of Chowghat and 
Thalappally. 

Within the whole arca comprising 
the taluk of Palghat and the four 
panchayats viz. Lakkidi 

Perur, 
Sreekrishnapuram , Karimpuzha and 
Kadampazhipuram of the Ottapalam 
taluk . 

Within the whole area comprising 
the taluk of Marnarghat and the 
Municipality of Shorannur and the 
twenty -five panchayats viz. Anangadi, 
Ottap palam , Chalavara, 
Vaniyankulam , Amba la para, 
Ongallur, Vallapuzha , Paruthur, 
Muthuthala. Paitambi, Koppam , 
Vilayur, Kulakkallur, Thiruvegapura , 
Nellaya , Vellinezhi, Thrikkideri, 
Cherplacherry , Pattithara . Kappur, 
Anakkara Thrithala , Chalissery, 
Thirumattakkadu and Nagalassery 
ofthe Ottappalam taluk. 

Within the whole area comprising 
the two taluks of Chittur and Alathur. 


(27 ) Divisional Inspector of 

Weights and Measures, 

Chittur. 
(28 ) Divisional Inspector of 

Weights and Measures , 
Manjeri . 


. 


(29 ) 


Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures, 
Tirur . 


Within the whole area comprising 
the taluk of Eranadu excluding the 
six panchayats viz . Kottakkal, 
Cherukavu , Chelambra , Pulikkal, 
Pallikkal and Vazhayoor. 

Within the whole area comprising 
the Municipality of Tirur and the 
twenty -five panchayats viz. Purathur , 

Thalakkadu, Vettom , Cheriya 
mund a in , Kalpakamcherry, 
Valavannur, Ponmundam , Tanur, 
Tanalur, Parappanangadi, 

Velli 
kkunnu, Ozhur, Vengara , 
A. R. Nagar, Thennala, Parappur, 


6 


(1 ) 


(2 ) 
Oth uk unga 1, Thenbinpalam , 
Mooniyur, Nannambra, Thirura 
ngadi, Irimbiliam , Athavanadu , 
Edayur, 

and 

Marakkara , of the 
Tirur taluk and the five panchayats 
viz . Cherukavu , Chelambra , 
Pulikkal, Pallikkal and Vazhayur of 
the Eranadu taluk . 


(30 ) 


Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures, 
Perunthalmanna . 


the two 


and 


and 


( 31 ) 


Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures, 
Kozhikode. 


Within the whole area comprising 

taluks viz . Ponnani and 
Perunthalmanna 

Kottakal 
panchayat of the Eranadu taluk and 
the four panchayats viz . Kuttipuram , 
Kattiparuthy, Thirunavaya 
Triprangode of the Tirur taluk . 

Within the whole area comprising 
the Corporation of Kozhikode and 
the eight panchayats viz. Beypore, 
Kadalundy, Feroke, Ramanattukara , 
Olavanna, Cheruvannur, Peruvayal 
and Mavoor of the Kozhikode taluk . 

Within the whole area comprising 
the taluk of Badagara . 


( 32 ) 


Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures, 
Badagara. 


(33 ) 


Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures, 
Kalpetta . 


Within thewhole area comprising 
the taluks of North Wynad and South 
Wynad and the thirteen panchayats 
viz Kunnamangalam , Kuruvathoor, 
Kcdiyathur, Mukkom , Chatha 
mangalam , Koduvally , Omasserry, 
Karasserry , 

Puthuppady , Koden 
cherry , Koodaranji, Thiruvambady 
and Thamarasserry ofthe Kozhikode 
taluk . 


( 34 ) 


Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures, 
Quilandy . 


Within the whole area comprising 
the taluk of Quilandy and the nine 
panchayats viz. Elathur , Kakkoti, 
Chelannur, Thalakkulathur , 
Kizhakkoth , Narikkunni, Kakkur, 
Madavur and Nanmunda of the 
Kozhikode taluk . 


7 


(2 ) 
Within the whole area comprising 
the taluk of Cannanore . 


(35 ) 


(36 ) 


(1) 
Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures, 
Cannanore . 
Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures, 
Tellicherry . 
Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures, 
Kasargode . 


Within the whole area comprising 
the taluk of Tellicherry . 


( 37) 


Within the whole area comprising 
the taluk of Kasargod and the eight 
panchayats viz . Uduma, Pallikara, 
Panathady, Belur , Malothu , 
Pulloorperiya, Ajanur and Kanhangad 
of the Hosdurg taluk . 

Within the whole area comprising 
the taluk of Taliparamba and the 
eleven panchayats viz . East Eleri, 
West Eleri, Neeleswaram , Kinanur , 
Trikaripur, Valiaparamba, Pilikode, 
Padanna, Cheemeni, Cheruvathur and 
Madikai of the Hosdurg taluk . 


( 38 ) 


Divisional Inspector of 
Weights and Measures, 
Taliparamba 


(Sd.) 
Controller of Weight: & Measures . 


