> 


Mange 


Cazette : 
Aprel 1955 Morile 

195 


ze 


Para 


on probation for 8 years and confirma 
PORTED BY AUTHORITY 
Imphal, We 

CONTO 
promotionants , Postdag Trungan 

Ondom Notification 
entre ind other purpomni notion 

Government content 
direibweisen, trigubantart Ordero , M 
cacions, Ruloo , a 

GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR 
Order by the Chief 

Imphal, the 20th Marol , 1986 . 
Not" R17154, 131 . Tas Ohio Oomimisuinner pleaned appoint 
Lamphel Singh aed ( 2) Jawab Bushiruddin Ahmed Extra Assistant Oasinon 
the wake of Rs. 260-610-3040dn )-26-4QD (EB) 

10-30040cm )-96-400 (EB )-2.800 (EB 26-8501 Witha ting 
be mubject to the passing of the przenoribed Departmental Escapainationi . 

P. 0. Deb . 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur, 


. 


Impkan, the 1st April 1955 . 
No FA131/63 /46. - The Ohio ! Coletim histone is pleased to grant earned love 
foto do with leave on private stuits for a day to Shri P. 0. Deb, 
Spuietary to the Government of Manipur with effect from and price 
Late Rulo . 2004 

T. Katsohan Singh , 
Asatt. Seoretary to the Govt. of Man 


Holmin 


LARGE RETORT. 

Imphal, the ad April, 1958 . 
dersigned buvo handed over agd raken over charge of the office of 

the Government of Manipur this day , the end April , 1966 

bulance Hi W11 )- (Re dix Hundred and went 


1. Raja 
LIEVING OPTIOUR 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 8, 1985 : 


Imphal; the 4th April, 1956 . 
TOUR PROGRAMME OF SHRI P. C. MATHEW , I, C. S. 

CHIEF COMMISSIONER, MANIPOR . 
9-4-55 (Baturday ). 

Imphal to Caloutta , I. A. C.Servloe No. 964 . 
Imphal 18.08 , P. M. 

Calcutta 3.10 . P. M .. 
10-4-56 (Sunday ). 

Caloutta to Delhi, I. A. O. Service No. 402 . 
Calouttu 7.30 A. M. , 
Delhi ( Palam ) 11.80 A. M. 


11-4-55 to 
14-4-55 . 


15-4-56 (Friday ) . 


Halt at Delbi. 
Address 20, Queensway, New Delhi 
Telephono 42529 . 
Dejbi to Calcutta . J. A. C. Service No. 401 
Delhi (Palam ) 7.30 A. M. 
Caloutta 11.30 A. M. 
Caloutta to Impbal. I. A. C. Service No. 256 . 
Calcutta 6.45 A. M. 
Imphal 11.30 A. M. 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Seoretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


16-4-56 (Saturday ) . 


Datel, Imphal, the 5th April , 1955 . 
Tour Programme of Shri A. Daiho , Advisor / Finance for the month of April 1955 . 
11-4-55 . 

Leave Imphal Arrive Tuinem . 
12-4-56 . 

Leave Tuinem Arrive Tolloi. 
18-4-55 . 

Leave 

Tolloi Arrive Somdal. 
14-4-55 . 

Leave Somdal Arrive Imphal. 

T. Kalachand Singh , 
Asstt . Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


Ili 
: 


III: 


PART 1 
Notification No. 68 of 1965 . 

Imphal, the 24th March , 1955 . 
The Judicial Commissioner, with the approval of the Chief Commissioner, is 
pleased to declare that the following period of LONG VACATION & Christmas 
holidays will be observed as closed holidays in all Civil Courts subordinate to the 
Judicial Commissioner s Court , Manipur in addition to the Gazetted holidays issued 
by the , Local Government vide Notification No. SR / 10 /64 /36 dated 20th Ootober 
1964 and SR / 10 /55 / i dated 7-2-86 . 
Logg Vacation . 

From the 15th October 1953 to the 16th November inolu 
ding Tarpon Loiba. Durga Puja , Mahatma Gandhi birth 
day, Lakordi puja , Dewali ( Dwipanita ), Goverdbon puja and 

Dhatri Dwitiya . 
Christmas Holidays : From the 24th December 1955 to the 31st December 1986 

K. B. Smugh , 
Registrar , Judicial Commissions 

Imph 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 6, 1985 . 


1 


5 


NOTIFICATION . 

Imphal, the 1st April, 1966 . 
No. F.R.4 /52. - With the sanction of the Government of India in their letter No. M 
IL - 152 ( 101 )/84 of 15th February , 1968 und in exercise of the powers conferred upon him 
by the Guvernrnent of India , Ministry of Natural Resources and Scientific Resoarch 
Notifiontion No. M - 1H- 152 (101 )/54 of the 4th February , 1955 and under Hule 
of the Mineral Concession Rules , 1949 , the Chief Cominissioner, Monipur is pleased 
to order the issue of Certificate of Approval to the Moirang Co -operative Farming 
Society Ltd. (Regd . No. 65 ) in the prescribed form , in respect of COAL ouly . 

The Certificate of Approval shall remain valid upto the midnight of the 31st 
December, 1955 throughout the State of Manipur, The issue of this Certificate of 
Approval is subject to the provisions of the Mineral Concession Rules , 1949. 

G. H. Singh , 
Asstt . Secretary (Home) to the Govt. of Manipur. 

PART 1 

Imphal, the 28th March , 1965. 
No. CS /2 /55 . --The following order received from the Goverument of India , 
Ministry of Food and Agriculture, New Delhi is republished for general information . 

T. Kalachand Singh , 

Asstt . Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 
New Dalhi, dated the 18th March , 1985 . 

ORDER 
SRO ............ In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - seotion ( 2 ) of Section 4 
of the Essential Commodities Ordinance , 1955 (Ordinance No. 1 of 1955 ), ( hereinafter 
in this Order referred to as the suid Ordinance ), the Central Government hereby makos 
the following Order , namely : 
1. Short titlo , extent and commencement : 

( i ) This Order may be called the Wheat (Removal of Movement Control) 

Order , 193.). 
( ii ) It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and 

Kashmir . 

( iii ) It shall come into force on the 18th March , 1955 . 
2. Romoval of all restrictions on movement of wheat : 

As from tbe date of commencement of this Order , there shall be no prohibition , 
restriction or control on the movement of wheat froin any place in a State to any other 
place outside that State , 

3. Effect of this Order : 

This Order shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith in 
any other enactment for the time being in force in any State to which this Order 
applies and any such enactment to the extent of inconsistency shall cease to have 
offoot at the commencement of this Order . 
4. Law made by State Governments to cease to have effect 

(n ) No order made or deemed to have been made under the said Ordinance 

by the Government of a State or by any Officer or authority in 

that State ; or 
(b ) no enactment for the time being in force in any State to which 

this Urder applies 
shall have effect 80 as to pr. ibibit , restrict or control the moveinont of wheat from 
any place in a State to any other place outside that State . 

8d /-A. Zaman , 
Joint Secretary to the Government of India . 

(No.PY.II - 659 ( 47 )/55 .) 


- 


MANIPUL. GAZETTE , APRIL 6 , 1988 . 


Imphal, the 31 March , 1938. 
No. 25805-7 / DC . - The following tettet received from the Govt. of India , Mhiatry 
of Defepion , New Delhi is republished for general information . 


V. B. Sundaram , 
Doputy Commissioner, Manipur . 


( b ) 


No. 5.74 /68 / 1309 - M /D ( Coord ). 
Government of India , 

Ministry of Defence. 

New Delhi, the 7th February , 1955 . 
To 
The Chief Secretaries of all Part A B and O States. 

Subject : -Use of Military Ranks after 

release eto . 
Str . 

I am directed to intimate that, apart from serving officers of the Armed Foroes, 
only the following categories of persons are entitled to use military ranks with their 
námes. The recognised method of doing so is indicated below in each case : 

(a ) Regular Commissioned Officers who retire with pension or gratuity 

e.g. Captain A. ( Retd ). 
Junior Commissioned Officers granted Honorary Commissions as ICOS 

on retiremont ... ... ... ... Hony. Lt. B , ( Retd .) 
(c ) Ruling Princes granted Honorary Commissigns -Major - General C , and 

others granted Honorary Commissions- (Hony ) Major C. 
(d ) Officers of the Reserves including Emergency List of I.N. 

Capt . D , (Reserve )/ Lt. Comdr. 1 ), ( Emergency List ) / Fit . Lt. D. (Reserve) 
( o ) Officers of the Territorial Army and Officers of N.C.C.-Lt. Col. E. 

( T.A )/ Captain E , (NCC ). 
(f) Officers and others granted Foronary ranks by the Rulers of Statos 

before integration with the Union ( Hony ) Major F (with the name 

of the State in bracket ). 
2. fo order to apprise ex -officers , who held Temporary , Short Servioe , Emergency 
or any other similar type of Commission in the past , of the correct legal and official 
viow on the subject, two Press Nobes were issued by the Government of Indix on 
the 24th December, 1949 and the 6th February , 1961. They were specifically re 
quested to discontinue the use of their former military ranks in case they were doing 
80 under a misconception that it was permissible . The vast majority of ex-officers have 
complied with the advice tendered . It is noticed , however , that sometimes military ranks 
are used , where they ought not to be even in official correspondence communiques 
and press releases . It is requested that this should be avoided in all cases not covered 
by the vategories mentioned in the first paragraph and simply Shri or Mr. should 
be used . Where the use of military ránk is permitted under the first paragraph , 
the sunk used should be the substantivo rank and not any other rank . 

Yours faithfully , 

Sd / N , J. Kamath , 
Deputy Socratary to the Government of India : 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 8, 1955 . 


PART IV 


Impbal; the 29th March , 1955 . 
The tinderbnontiönéd Notification No. ÁAB . 162 /64- PF11 / 74 dt. 12-3-85 roceivad 
from the Government of Assam is republished for general information : 

T. Kipgen, 

Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 
The Governor of Aslam is pleased to direct the publication of the results of 
the Hall Yearly Departmental Examination of the Indian Administrative Service 
and other officers lield from the 22nd November to 26th November, 1954 both 
days inclusive : 

Officers of the Manipu State . 
1. Shri 0. Kathipri , E. A. C : Law Parts I & If hy lower standard and 

Accounts . 
Ź Shri Birahari Singh , E. A. C. Law Part I by higher and lower standards 

and Law Part II by lower standard . 
3. Shri K. Lamphel Singh , 

Law Part 1 by lower standard . 
Shri Basiruddin Ahmed , 

Law Part II by lower standard . 


4 . 


TENDER NOTICE . 


per md. 


2 . 


per nid . 


Imphal, the 30th Marchi, 1955 . 
SEALED tenders are invited from bonafide local dealers for supply of the 
followiog stores to M. 8. T. and will be received by the undersigned on or before 
the 8th April/1955 during oflice lours and will be opened on the day after at 10 
a. m . in the presence of the tenderers who elect to be present. There shall be no 
obligation to accept the lowest tender or any other tender . 
). Ready -made fire -wood about 1 } ft . in length 

suitable for use as fuel ir Distillation Plant 
of this Departmental Worksbop 

Rs. ..... 
1st Class charcoal for use in the workshop 
furnace of this Department 

Rs . 
3 . Cotton Waste suitable for use in cleaning 
Oily matters 

Rs. 
4. Sunlight or lifebuoy soap 

Rs. 

per Dozen . 
1. Distilled water for use in batteries (without bottle ) Rs. 

per Dozón . 
6. Battery acid ( Sulphuric Acid 1250 ) (with buttle ) Rs. 

per Dozen . 
7. Battery separators 

Rs . 

per Dozen . 
8. Tape 1 " wide (Wick ) 

Rs. 
9. Tarpaulin 3 ft . wide suitable for use as side 
screen of vehicles 

R .. 

per yard . 
10 . Sipul flower ( leru ) 

Rs. 
11. Soldering fluid 

Rs. 
12 . Block tin 

Rs , 
Amon - Chloride 

Rs. per lb. 


per md . 


per ft . 


per Seer. 
Per 11 . 
per Ib . 


13 . 


Kh . Buddha Singh , 
Manager, Manippr State Trac sport. 


1 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 6 , 1988 . 


NOTICE 

Imphal, the 28th March , 1957 . 
Applications are invited for some posts of Temporary Overseers in the scale of 
Rs. 120-120-130 (con )-5-145-(EB)-10-245- (EB )-10-275 / - pluy Dearness Allowance 173 % 
under the Publio Works Department, Manipur , so as to reach the office of the 
undersigned on or before 218t April , 1935. Present and permanent address, nationa 
lity , age and details of academic and technioal qualification and past experience 
of the candidates should be mentioned in their » pplications which should be accom 
panied by copies of two reoint testimonials by responsible persons. None need 
apply who is 
who is not of good 
not of good health and active habits , 

health and active habits, & passed Overseer ( upper 
subordinate or L. C. B. ) from a Government recognised Institute and a citizen of 
the Indian Union . Copies of diplom s , certificates etc. should be enclosed with the 
applications. Higher initial pay may be allowed to 

be allowed to candidates having 

candidates having previous 
experience , if found suitable . 

Y. Tombi Singh , 
Executive Engineer , P. W. D. Manipur. 


1 


APPOINTMENT NOTICE . 

Iinphal, the 28th March , 1955. 
Applications are invited from strong and healthy billmen who are bonafide. 
subjects of Manipur for some posts of constables in the unarmed branob of Manipur 
Police - on Rs. 28-30 ( on completion of training )-4-40/- per month plus allowances 
aclmissible under the rules. Appointments will be at first for 6 ( six ) months only 
but are likely to be made pernanent. 

Candidates aged between 18 and 25 and having a minimum height of 5 ft. 
3 inches and & Dininum chest measurement of 31 inches should submit their 
applications stating (1 ) full name, ( 2) father s name, (3 ) addresses permanent and 
present , ( 4 ) height , (6 ) chest measurement, (6 ) academic qualification , if any and 
(7) experience, if any, to the undersignud on or before 30-4-55 . Those who rendered 
satisfactory service as special Police officers will be given preference . 

U. O. Malhoutra , 
Inspector General of Police, Manipur. 


Notice No. 8 / Jail of 1955 . 

Imphal, the 31st March , 1955. 
Applications stating age , and qualifications and expiriences aro invited for the 
following temporary posts for on . year likely to continue for further periods. Can 
didates are required to be present to the Advisers Council Hall on 30-4-55 et 12 
noon for interview . 
Minimum academic qualification fur the post of thio tcacher ia matriculation . 
Nane of posts . 

No. of the posts. 
1. One teacher ( for tenobin , adult 
prisoners in Jail ). 

1 . 60-4-100 with usual D. A. 
2 . Agricultural Assistant. 

1. 40-2-60 - EB - 3-85 . Do. 
3 . Wonving lostructor . 

1. 40-2-50 . 

Do. 
T. C. T iankham , 
Superintendent, Jail , Manipur : 


: 
: 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 6 , 1965 . 


។ 


Tender Notice No. 42 . 

Imphal, the 28th March , 1965 . 
1. Sealed tenders are invited for the exclusive right to work out timber from 
the “ Uningthoupokpi Protected Forest” and will be received by the undersigned 
upto 2-0 P. M. on the 27th April, 1955. The period of contract is five years 
from the 1st May , 1955 to 30th April, 1960 . 

2. The tenderer should inspect the Forest before submission of tender to have 
a thorough , idea of the Forest which has never been worked before . The successful 
tenderer will have to construct various Forest extraction routes from the working 
depots upts the main river Iril & if required to train the rivers and 
of that area to facilitate floating down of timbers , at his own cost. The tonderer 
should indicates a proper 

aligument of the roads to be constructed and of the 
rivers to be truined showing what he contemplates to do year by year during 
the period of the lease . 

3 . The maximum annual quota of lo:98 to be extractod is limited to 600 (six 
hundred ) logs or 200 (two hundred ) trees approximately . No trees can be felled 
which is less than 6 ft , iu girth , measured at breast height i. c . 4 - 13 from tbe 
ground level. 

4. Each tenderer should state the monopoly fee in terms of pice per rupee 
of royalty on and above due royalty payable 

due royalty payable on the extracted timber , for tbe 
right of working the timber. The monopoly fee offered shall be payable each time 
with the royalty whilo taking the transit pass . The tenderer should deposit an 
earbest ironey of Rs. 100 /- (Rufees one hundred ) only in the Imphal Treasury and 
should enclose the Treasury Chalan in the tender failing which no tender will be 
accepted . The 

eargest money will be refunded in case of unsuccessful tenders 
and will be converted into a part of caution money in case of successful 

tender . 
Successful tenderer shall execute an agreement within 14 days of the receipt of 
the information to that effect and shall deposit n caution money of Rs . 200 /- (Rupees 
two hundred ) only, failing which the tender shall be treated as cancelled and the 
earnest money deposited siiall be forfeited to the Government of Manipur. On 
signing the agreement if the contractor does not do any work or if it is the 
opinion of the Forest Officer that proper extraction has not been done by the 
contractor, the agreement is liable to cancellation without further notice and the 
caution money of Rs. 200 / - only be forfeited . 
5. The boundary limits in which timbers as to be operated , are as given below : 

North : - Warilok . 
Soutb :-Ngaton -Khamson . The footpath from villager and then the 

next hill stri am which run to the north of Kharrison village 

and which juin the Ihang river. 
East ;-The Ibang River. 

West :-Foot path between Shorbung Ngaton villages. 
6. Trees which are reserved and marked for mother trees by the Forest Depart 
ment in the area stated above should not be felled . 

7. Particulars of conditions of the agreement may be seen in the Forest Office 
during Office hours . 

The undersigned does not bind himself to accept the highest tender and 
may reject any tender without assigning any reas01). 

R. K. Bijoyobandra Singh , 
Forest Officer, Government of Manipur . 


8 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 6 , 1968 . 


:: 


:: 


1 


:: 


. 


. 


1 


İmphai, the 28th March , lošć. 
With approval of the Chief Commissioner, the , Judigial Commissionet lige plensed 
to publish the following list of holldays to be observed as ol8sed holidlys in the 
Court of the Jüdididi Comitélönet for Misipuis during the yeat 1866 . 

1. New year s day (Christian ) ist January, Saturday i day 
2. Uttarayon Sankranti 

14th 

Friday 
3. Republic day 

26th 

Wednesday 
4. Shri Panchami 

28th 

Friday 
5. Shiva Ratri 

21st February Monday 
6. Doljatra 

Sth to izth March 

( Tuesday to Saturday ) 6 days. 
7. Bijoy Govinda Halankar 

13th Maroh Sunday 

1 day . 
8 . Baruni 

22nd 

Tuesday 
9. Good Friday 

8th April Friday 
10. Cheiraola 

14th 

Thursday 
11. Manipuri New years day 

15th 

Friday 
12. Silbenba 

16th 

Saturday 
13. Akshaya Tritiya 

26th 

Monday 
14 . Id - ul- Fitar 

4th May Tuesday 

(for Muslim 

only ) 
16. Ratha Jatra 

22nd June Wednesday 1 day . 
16. Purna Jatra 

29th 

Wednesday 
17. (a ) Julon Jutri 

30b 

July Saturday 
(b ) Id -ul-Zuha 
18. Jaama stami 

11th August Thursday 
19. Independence day 

15th 

Monday 
20. Muharram 

29th Monday 

( or Muslith 

only ) 
21. Long Vacation including 

kadba stami, Heikru Hitong 
ba. Tarpon Loiba , Durga 23rd September Friday 
puja Mahatma Gandhi 

to to . 

68 days . 
birthday. Lakshmi puja , 

29th November Tuesday 
Dewali, Goverdhon puja , 
Batri Ditiya and Gošta 

stami. 
22. Palace Kirton 

1st December Thursday 

1 day . 
23. Christmas Vacation 

24th 

Saturday 
to 

to 
31st Saturday 

8 


,, 


; 
: 


:: 


1 


? 


days. 


Note : -- In addition to the notified holidays the Court will also remain closed 

on Sundays and public holidays under the negotiable instrument adt 
and other local holidays observed in the executive offices. 


By order, 
K. B. Singh , 

Registrar, 
Judicial Commissioner s Court , 


ScheduleListofRegistereddealers. 


MANIPURSTATE 


Clancioofgoodsentitledtotheme. 


Addrese. 


Hainedealer 


Xatunof bashore. 


Ba Replatintion 


4.K,Brods&Co. 


KeisamthongImphal 


Retail distribution 


26 


29-6-50 


Stationery,Hardware,Tools,musteredoil, Books,Electricbalba;Dals,Cyclèparts;Glas wares,Toiletgoods,Glucose,Horlicko;Oraltii, WashingSoda,Soap. 


DamodarChounjitPaul. 


Srebonvillage 


27 


29-6-50 


Ibomcha&Sons. 


KeisamthongImphal 


29-6-50 


PUR : GAZETTE , APRIL 


-29-8-80JagadwipPandey. 


Kangpokpi 


Do. 


GanesblallPremsukh. 


SadarBazarImpbal 


Do. 


31 


27-6-50 


GaneshSingGigaSing. 


Do. 


Tholesale&Bricks. retialdistribution 

RrteilStationery,Cotton,Yarn,Dal,K.oil,X.oil, distributionFirewood,Handloomspareparts,Toilegoods, 

Glasswares,Horlicks,Glacone,Oraltino,Soda 

and 
Soaps 
. 
Do. 

Gallamall,Ghee,Alluminiamwares,Clotho& 

Handloomcloths,Cigarettes,BirisandMatches. Wholesale&Motorparts,Handloomcloths;Millclothosúd retaildistribationgarn,Salvagematerials,Salt,Soap,soda, 

Matches,Foodstufi,Lubricant,Gold,Silver, 

Condensedmilk,Sewingthreadandſea. Do. 

Handloomcloths,Yaro,Salt,Soape,Millcloths, 

Foodstaff,MatchesandIronscraps. RetaildistributionCloths,Hapdloomcloths,Silk,Woollenclothon, 

HosierygoodsandUmbrella. Wholesale&Handloomclothsandyarn,Millmadecloths, retaildistributionWoollenandCottoncloths,Candles,Stationery, 

Radio,Electricgoods,Motorparts,Ironseráps, 

TyresandTabesandTea, 
Do.Gold,Silver,Silk,Handloomcloth,Yarn,Salvage 

materials,M,oil,Ghee,Chilliesandſalt. RetailHandloomclotha,Woollengoods,Hosierygoode, distributionTrank,Umbrelle,AlluminiuspotsandMill 

cloths 
. 


27-6-50 


6 1955 . 


Do. 


AbanthemNityaiSingh. 


Do. 


29-6-50 


Do. 


83 


MahabirTradingCompany: 


Do. 


28-6-50 


Do. 


81 


BbeirodanNathmal 


Du. 


Do. 


29-6-50 


35 


Do. 


N.J.B.&Co. 


29-6-30 


38 


Do. 


OL 


Nameofdealer 
. 


Address. 


Classesofgoodientitledtobefel 


Resourke 
. 


toldth 
Po.at 
Begle 
Data 
of 

katies 
Begintzation 
. 
Ourtitionte 
. 


Nitanat business 


po 


Manipur 
. 


39 


29-6-50 


ManiparHandloomIndustries, 


Sadar 
Bazar 
Imphal 


8D 


Retail 
distribution 


Handloomclothmanufacturing,Dres Chemicals, 


Do 
.. 


40 


28-8-50 
Nayanchand 
Roy 
. 


Do. 


Wholesale 
& 
Brasswares,Alluminium,Bellmetal,Copperware, retaildistributionAllsortsofclo:hr,Silk,WoollenHosieryand 

allkindsofstationerygoods, 


Do. 


41 


29-6-50 
Jamunalall 
Mungilall 
. 


Do. 


Do. 


Statiunery,Paintoil,Disinfectantdyos,Paper, Hardware,Tools,Glass,EnamelaodBrassware, Electricgoods.Habereshary,Toiletourand othermiscellaneousgoodsetr.Patentmilksuch ascondensedmilk,Horlicksetc,Patentmedicine Teas,SodaandSoaps, 


42 


29-6-50 


Do. 


NewStore 


Do. 


Retail distribution 


Stationerygoods.Fancygood,Toilet,Electric godds,Sports,Glass,Enamelgoods,Cloth& Sevingthread,Batterycellsandlight,Watch Woollengrodi, 
Painte,Petroman,Hurricane 
lantern 
and 
milk 
production 
. 


MANIPUR GAZITE , APRIL 


Do 


21-6-50 


ArtsandWearingHouse. 


Do. 


Do. 


Handloomprodaels,HandloomAccessoriesand 


dyostuf 


DO 


44 


29-6-60 


MotilallGhisalall, 


Do. 


Wholesale 
& 
Handloomcloth 
,Salvagematerials 
Yorg 
retaildistributionMatches,Salt, 
Foodstuf,SoupandCondensed 

milk 
. 


-- 


374-50KrishnaSingh&Sons 
. 


Do. 


Retail 
distribution 


1950 


Yarn,Soap,Condensedmilk,.Chillier,Coreali. WashingSoda,Match,Dilmanstorer,Oilseede 
, Salt 
,Umbrella, 
Betelnet 
, 
Woollen 
yarn 
, 
Cigt natter,Bidir,Suge,Glycerineetc, 
Cloths 
Handloomcloths 
,Silk 
, 
Woollen 
cloth 
, HosierygoodsandUmbrella. 


47 


87-6-60.Porngbem-ChurachandSingb. 


Do. 


Do. 


48 


21-8-50 


N.GonrabariSingh&Sons, 


Do. 


Do. 


Armsandamwanitions, 


-27-6-50TheImpbalTradingCorporation. 


Do. 


Do. 


General 
mercbandise 
Foot 
ware 
, 
Fancy 
goods 
, Provisions,Hardware,PaintaandGlasses. 

To 
be 
continued 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 6 , 1988 . 


11 


TENDER NOTICE . 

Imphal, the 1st April , 1955 . 
No. Sty /LP/ 54/ 80 . -Sealed tenders are invited for the supply of 

supply of one hundred 
coams of Double foolsoap white paper 17 " X 27" - 20 lb for use of the Government . 
of Manipur. Tenders will be received by the undersigned upto noon on 7-466 
and will be opened on that date . The tenderers should quote rates in figure and 
words. Sample of paper should also be furnished , along with their tender . The 
poconstał tenderer should supply the paper to the Secretariat Store within five 
days from the date of acoeptance of the tender. 

T. Kalachand Singh , 
Asstt. Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


NOTICE No. 43 


Imphal, the 28th March , 1935 , 
1. Sealed tenders are invited for the exclusive right to work out Teak timbers 
from Burmah Border Forest " and will be received by the undersigned upto 2-0 P. M. 
on the 27th April , 1935 . The period of contruct is three years from 1st May , 1955 
to 30th April , 1958 . 

2. The tenderer should inspect the Forest before submipsion of tender to have 
· thorough idea of the Forest which has never been worked before . The maximum 
annual quots of logs to be extracted is limited to 600 logs or 200 trees approximately . 
No tree can be felled which is less than 41 ft. in girta , measured at broast height 
i. e . 4 - " from the ground level. 

8. Each tenderer shoull state the monopoly fee in terms of pioe por rupee of 
royalty on and above due royalty payable on extracted timber , for the right of working 
the timber . The monopoly fee offered shall be payable each time with the royalty 
while taking transit pass. The tonderer should deposit an earnest money of Re . 200 / 
(rapoos two hundred ) only in any Guvernmont Treasury and should enclose the Trea 
sury Chalan in the teoder failing which no tonder will be accepted . The earnest. 
money will be refunded in case of unsuccessful tenders and will be converted into a 
part of caution money in case of successful tenders. Successful tenderer shall execute 
an agreement within 14 days of the receipt of the information to that effect and shall 
deposit a . caution money of Rs. 1,000 /- ( Rupees one thauband ) only, failing which the 
tender shall be treated as oa noelled and the earnest monoy deposited shall be forfeited to the 
Governmont of Manipur. On signing the agreement if the contrastor does not do any work 
or if it is the opinion of the Forest Officer that proper extraction has not been done 
by the contraotor, the agreement is liable to cancellation without further notice and 
the caution money of Rs. 1,000 / - (Rapees one thousand) only be forfeitod . Suocess 
ful tonderer will take himself the responsibility of constructing extraction routes in 
the forests . 

4. The boundary limit in which Teak timbers are to bu operatod are as given below : 

Burmah Border Forest from Boundary Pillar No. 1 to 34 except the area covered 
by Yangoupokpi, Lokchao Reserved Forest. The extent of area wherein Teaks are to 
be oporated will approximately cover 40 sq. miles in the border lice only , 

5. Trees which are reserved and marked for mother trees by the Forest Depart 
ment in the aree stated above should not be fellod . 

6. Particulars of Qubditions of the agreemeut may be seen in the Forest Office 
during Office hours . 

1. The undersigned does not bind himfelf to accept the highest tender and may re 
ject any tender without Assigning any reason , 

R , K , B , C. Singb . 
Forest Officer, Government of Manipur . 


... Inapbal Printed and published by the Superintendent Government Press O. 200 / 6-4-85 . 


fumaFree 


Manipur 


Gazette 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 2 


Imphal, Wednesday , April 13, 1965 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


1 to 2 


Part I. - Appointments , Postings, Transfers , Powers , 

Loave and other personal notices, 
Part II.-- Resolutions , Regulations, Orders , Notif 

cations, Rules etc. 


Part III. - Orders , Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Noticos eto . 


Nil 
3 to 6 


2 to 3 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 


PART 1 


Imphal, tho 6th April , 1955 . 
No. Claims 7/52/72 .-- In anticipation of Govt . of In lia s sanction the Chief 
Commissioner is pleased to extend the te: 1 of the services of the following posts 
for compensation work in Manipur for a further period of one year with effect 
from the 1st March , 1955 or till the date of completion of compensation work 
whichever is earlier : 


S. No. 


Name of posts . 


No. (.f posts. 


Scale of pay . 


1 . 


Extra Assistant 
Commissioner / Claims. 


1 


250-250-300 (Con ) -25-400 (EB )-25-600 
(EB )-25-650 plus Rs. 50 / - special pay . 
Rs. 200 / - in addition to pension . 


2 . 


Claims Officer . 


1 


2 . The incumbent. with the exception of the Claims Officer , will be entitled to 
such rates of allowances as may be admissible under rules. 


3. The expenditure involved shall be shared equally between the Defence Ser: 
vices and the Civil Estimates and debitel. as follows :: 


Defence Services Share : 

-Major Head 58 , Main - Head 7 Expenditure on works 

( Other than Capital projects) maintenance etc. Sub - head 
D -General charges, Minor head (f ) Miscellareous of the 

Defence Services Estimates . 
Civil Share : 

‘Account y - Miscellaneous - Miscellaneous and unforeseen 
charges -- Other Miscellaneous Expenditure in demand 
No. 92 — Manipur. 


T. Kalachand Singh , 
Asstt. Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 13 , 1968 . 


Imphal, the 7th April , 1953 . 
TOUR PROGRAMME OF ADVISER /FINANCE FOR THE MONTH OF APRIL , 1955 . 
8-4-56 

Leave Imphal 

Arrivo Khabung . 
9-4-55 

Halt . 
10-4-55 

Leave Khabung 
Arrive Imphal. 

T. Kalachand Singh , 
Asstt. Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


. 


: 
: 


Imphal, the 9th April , 1055 . 
TOUR PROGRAMME OF SHRI S. KRISHNAMOHAN SINGH , ADVISER . 
15-4-55 

6 A.M. 

Leave Imphal. 
10 A.M. Reach Moreh 

and balt . 
16-4-55 

10.A.M. Leave Moreba 
12 A.M. arrive Tengnoupal 

& meeting with village elders 

& Khulakpas at Tengnoupal. 
8 A.M. Leave for Imphal. 

T. Kalachand Singh , 
A sstt . Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 

PART 1 
Ν Ο ΤΙΓΙΟ Α Τ ΙΟ Ν . 

Shillong, the 30th March , 1956 . 
Subject : - Classification of Expenditure under the Five Year Plan . 
No. TM BK25 ( 1 )53-54 /86 :-It is hereby notified for the information and guidance 
all the Drawing and Disbursing Officer in Asgam , Tripura and Manipur who draw 
.ds out of allotments sanctioned by the Government of India , Ministry of Reha 
itation for the developmont schemes specified below with which they are concerned 
it with a view to exhibiting the expendituro incurred on the Five Year Plan in 
! place it has since been decided that all voucher, bills etc., pertaining to these 
iemes should be prominently marked “ Development Schemes under the Five Year 
LA " in red ink on the top right hand corner of the voucher/ bills etc. in all cases . 
e normal head of account to which the expenditure is debitable should be shown 
addition , on the voucher as usual in the prescribed place . 

1 , Urban Loans (including Educatiocal and Miscellaneous Loans) . 
2 . Rural Loans . 
3. Housing . 

i. Housing Loans . 
ii. Capital Outlay , on Buildings . 
iii . Capital outlay of the Ministry of Rehablitation . 

iv . Cheap tenement schemes . 
4 . Educational Schemes . 
5 . Vocational Training Schemes . 
6 . Other grants for expenditure on Rehabilitation Schemes .. 

8. K. Bhattacharyya , 
Askistant Aocounts Offioer, Asuan . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 13 , 1958 . 


3 


NOTIFICATIO x . 

Imphal, the 4th April , 1955 . 
It is hereby notified for general information that the Jurisilicti in of the Ins 
pecting Assistant ( ommissioner of Income-tax Assam , Tripura and Manipur as on 
1st April , 1966 is as under 
81. No. Name of I.A.C. 

Jurisdiction . 
1 . Shri G. Ghosh , M.A., B.Com ., A.C.A. 1 . Income- tax Office , Dibrugarh . 

2 . Income- tax Office , Jorhat. 
3 . Income-tax Office , Nowgong 

( including Manipur ), 
4 . Income- tax Office , Gauhati. 
5 . locome- tax Office , Tezpur . 
6 . Income- tax Office , Dhubri. 
7 . Income- tax Office , Shillong . 
8 . Income- tax Olkce , Silcbar . 

Income-tax Office , Tripura . 
10. Income- tax Office , Special 

Survey , Circle , Shillong . 


V. N. Hoon , 
Commissioner of Income - tax Assim , 

Tripura and Manipur . 


Dated , Shillong the 28th March , 1955 . 
Subject : - Verification of the Government money remitted into the 

Treasury or Bank . 
No. TM2/62/53/85.- In continuation of this office Notification No. TM . 2/62/53/35 , 
dated the 25th January , 1964 published in the Assam Gazette dated the 3rd March , 
1954 , all Treasury Officers under the Audit Control of this offico are hereby informed 
that Shri C. C. Goswami, Accounts Officer/ Books, of the office of the Kastern Rail 
way Accounts Department, Calcutta , has been nominated to ruceive the consolidated 
Treasury receipts issue ] under Rule 77 (V ) of the Central Treasury Rules ( Vol. I) 
and statements of the Treasury credits furnished by the Accountant General, under 
Rule 26 of the General Financial Rules ( Vol. I) (Central) . Henceforward , all such 
receipts should be sent to him ly name. 

S. K. Bhattacharjee , 

Assistant Accounts Officer . 
PART IV 


NOTICE . 

Imphal, the 7th April , 1954 . 
No. 35 /CS / 11/64-55.- It is hereby notified for general information that, pursvant 
to section 9 of the Co -operative Societies Act Il of 1912 , the Sinam Agricultural 
Co-operative Credit Society Unlimited has been registered and numbered as 3.5 of 
1954-55 dated the twenty sixth March if the year One thousand nine hundred 
and fifty five Anno Domini. 

K. G. Singh , 

Assistant Registrar , 
Co- operative Societies , Manipur . 


MANIPUP. GAZETTE , APRIL 13 , 1986. 


নােটিশ । 


কাল, তাং • । ১। ৫৫ ইং । 
মেসনেল ভেলুনটির ফোন । 


ভারত সরকার অনেক রেপ অগী মতুং ইন্না , হান্ন ঔজিলিয়েরি টেরিটোরিয়েল কোর্স হায়না কোন 
আই তো মহগী মা নেসলে ভােটিয়ার ফোর্স হায়বা অনা গেমগৎতে । মাসিক চহি খুদিংলা মী 
লাখ অমমমগ হিংদা আকলি চহি মঙা অসিগী মং মী লাখ মাখকঃ লানগ ট্রেনিং গনি । মাসি দক 
কেম্প ২০০ লিংখৎকনি , কেম্প খুদিংদা মী ৫০০ তম্বীগনি । ইংশােক ১৯৫। গ নে থাকা ট্রেনিং হৌগনি । তা 
হিদি : - মাইফল কাপ্পা , ফি ইঞ্জিনিয়ারিং, ফাওঁ এভ , হাইজিন, নােম যাওদা ঢিল, ফিজিকেল ট্রেনিং ,, 
ন অসিনটিবনি । 


নেসনেল ভােলন্টিয়ার ফোর্সী মতলব লান শােকননবগীদমক লাম্মী শেমগৎপা নতে ইনৈী সেবাদা পুঞ্জিং চংহ 
িইশানা ইশাৰু কৰা ভীনগমনি। মাসিদা মিং মুরগা অাইফদনা লান মাওদ দে হায়বগ অন 
করিত লৈতে । লান নত্তবা ইনবাৰী খুদোংথিৰা হায়ৰদি মুহারা , ঈশিং চাওৰগুৰা থােকল মতমদদি ইতি সেবা 
হোন মরমদি লৈর যাই । 

ভি , এস, সুন্দরাম, 
ডিট কমিশনার, মনির । 


। 


নেসনেল ভােলুন্টিয়ার ফোর্স ট্রেনিং য়াওবগী মরােল 


২ 


মিং চনৰা- 
১ - চহি ১৮ দগী ৪০ ফাওবগী মনুংদা লৈ মশা ফবা ভারতী নাগড়িক ( নিপা ) খুদিংমক ( এক্স সার্ভিশমেন অমসুং 
এক্স এন , সি , সি কেড়েত ননা ) মিং চন মিগনি । 

তৌগদৰামসিদা মিং চনবা মী খুদিংমক চহি অমগ মনুংদা মিৎ ৩০ নি ট্রেনিং ভৌগনি । ট্রেনিং লেই 
মতুংদা কমিগু মিলিটারি সর্ভিসতা কৌদুনা মাওহল্লোই অদুগা ট্রেনিং মংসু মিলিটারি এক্ট অমত্তগ মখা পােলাই । 

--নগদবা ফিরােজচিংবা — এনামেল মগ অমা , মেশতিন অমা , খাকি বস শার্ট অনি, খাকি খােত্রাও অকপা 
অনি , ভুল অমা ( মসিগ মহৎ শিখ ওরদি কোয়েং শগনি ) চেপেলি দুয়া অমা , নুনা পুনবা খাও অমা , 
ৰাস কলশ অনি, দৈ ( টাওয়েল ) অমা , খােং মােজা দুয়া অমা । মিলিটারি হাসপতাল বা অনুগী চাংলা 
সান গনি । 


সেসন 


-ট্রেনিং ভৌরিবা মী খুদিংমক মখাগী কনসেসন অসি ফগনি । 
ক - ট্রেনিং লেইগা পােকেট খর্চ সুপা ১৫ , নগনি । 
-কেম্পতা লৈরিঙৈদা, খুলবা সুমিত্তগী চংখিবা ফাওবা অরেপ্পা চাংদা লো চিঞ্জাক গনি । গাবদা সুনি 

৩৪ নিস হেনদি গনােই । 
গটেরিটোরিয়েল আরমিগুয়া তর খানা লৈহনগনি । 
-কেম্প নারকপা থােকবদি , অরাই লাইনা ওইরবদি কেম্পকী এম, আই, রুমা শেল তিনা লাইয়েংগনি , 

হােসণীতালদা লৈ দরকার ওইরবদি কেম্পকা নরুবা হােলদা থাগনি । 
--শিখ য়াওয়ষদি থা অমদা শম শেংদোগীদমক্তা লুপা অমা এলাওয়েল শগনি । 
চ - ট্রেনিং লৈরিঙৈদা ছুটি শনােই । 

ছ —নােমগ নগা অপুনবা ওইনা ট্রেনিংগীদমক্তা চথােক চংশিন তৌবগীদমক এলায়েন্স ফংলােই । 
মীংচমন চে অমসুং অতৈ অতৈ মনােল ডিপুটি কমিশনারগী অফিশতগী থংলা রাগনি । 


ভি , এল , সুন্দর , 
ডিপুটি কমিশনার, লি । 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 13 , 1955 . 


0 T I C E. 

Imphal, the sth April, 1966 . 
No. 36 /CS/ II /54-56 - It is hereby notified for general information that, pursuant to 
Spotion 9 of the Co- operative Soceities Act II of 1912 , the Mao Multipurpose 
Co-operative Society Ltd. has been registered and numbered av 36 of 1954-56 dated 
the 9th April of the your One thousand nine hondred and fifty five Anno Domini. 

* K : G. Singh ,** 

Assistant Rogistrar, 
Co - operative Societies, Manipur. 


an 


Impbal, the 9th April, 1955 . 
No. 1/JS / II /55-56 - It is hereby notified for general information that pursuant to 
Section 20 of the Societies Registration Aot XXI of 1860 , Association under 
the name and style of the Raja Dumbra Singh Anathashram Association has been 
incorporated and numbered as No. 1 of 1955-56 dated the 9th April of the year 
One thousand nine hundred and fifty five Anno Domini, , 

K.G. Singh , 
Registrar, Joint Stock Companios, Manipur. 


NOTICE No. 1. 

Imphal , the 7th April, 1955. 
Separate sealed tenders superscribed as “ Tender for......... 

are ipvited 
for the monopoly right to colleot and trade in Bees wax , elepbant tusk , horns and 
bobey in the mahals noted below and will be receivod by the undersigned upto 
2 P. M. of the 11th May , 1956 for the period commoncing from 1-6-55 t 31-5-56 . 

Each tenderer should state clearly the lump sum monopoly for which he prepared 
to offer for each mahal and this will be in addition to the royalty he has to pay 
on every cinsignment for export and the rates of royalty will be the same as 
realised in Assam . 

Each tenderer must deposit au earnest money of Rs. 50 /- (Rupees fifty ) only 
either in the Imphal Treasury Silchar Treasury which will be converted into 
caution money in case of successful tenders and will be tofunded in the case of the 
unsucoessful ones , The copy of Treasury Chalan should be enclosed in the tender, 
failing which the tender will be rejected . 

A successful tenderrt will have to exteute an agreement within 15 days from 
tko date of receipt of acceptance order on paymont of due monopoly fee which he 
offered in the tender . 

If tender be not received within the limited time and the lump sum monopoly 
tee offered by tenderer be not satisfactory , the mahal will be put up to auction 
on 12-5-58 at Imphal Forest Office . 

The Forest Officer does not bind himself to accept the highest and any 
tender . 


or 


1 


MAHAL S. 
1. Valley "mabål (Comprižing “ Sadar and Eastern Division ). 
2. . Jiri- Borak Forest mahal (Comprising Western Division ). 

R. K. Bijoychandra Singh , 
Forest Officer, Government of Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 13 , 1966. 


TENDER NOTICE . 


Imphal, the 7th April, 1965 . 
Sealed tenders with sealed samples are invited for the supply of the following 
Artioles to the Manipur Rifles. 

Tenders with samples must reach the Commandant, Manipur Rifles on or before 
the 7th May , 1955. 
Articles to be supplied . 

Approximate requirements . 


Jersey woolen , re- inforced sleeves . 


250 


Boot Polish , Black " Billy " 


800 (two oz . ) ting . 


: 


Blankets , woolen 


400 


Hocke, woolen 


1500 pairs. 


III . 


Hoge top , woolen 


400 


Buttons, horn or nut, Khaki " dia . 


... 


60 gross . 


Button horn or .nut , Black 1." dia . 


50 gross . 


Boots apkle , Black , 


400 pairs. 


Ground sheet, water proof, Canvas . 


300 


Shoes Canvas , 


800 pairs . 


U. C. Malboutra , I. P. S., 
Inspector General of Police, Manipur. 


Manipur 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 3 - E - 1 


Imphal, Monday , April 18 , 1955 . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


+ 


OFFICE OF TUN VOTIMCA MUN.NER , MANIPUR, 


No, 7 of 1968 , 

Imphal, the 29th March , 1955 . 
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 41 of the Special Marriage Act, 
1984 ( Act 43 of 1954 ), the Judicial Commissioner , Manipur is pleased to frame the 
following rules for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of Chapters V , 
VI and VIL of the aforesaid Act . 
These rules shall come into force immediately . 

By Order , 
K. B. Singh , 

Registrar , 
1. In these rules unless there is anything repugnant in the subjeot or context 
* Court means the District Court as defined in sec. 2 ol, (e) of the Special Marriage 
Act, 1954 ( Act XLIII of 196+). 

“ The Act " means the Special Marriage Act, 1954 (Act XLIII of 1964 ). 

“ Prescribed " means prescribed by these rules . 
2 . An appeal filed under sec . 8 or 17 of the Act shall be accompanied by a 
certified copy of the order appealed against. As soon as an appeal is filed it shall 
be numbered according to the serial number in the prescribed register and the par 
ticulars thereof shall be entered in the same . The register shall be in Form No. 1 . 

3. The appellant shall file along with the petition of appeal or on any subsequent 
date 88 the Court may direct copy or copies of the petition and notice in the 
prescribed form for service upon the Marriage Officer and any other person who 
intervened before the Marriage Officer , who passed the order appealed against . If 
any one intervened before the Marriage Officer, the application of appeal shall state 
clearly his name and address . 

4. Notice upon the Marriago Officer will be served through post , of which the 
cost will be borne by the State , but the appellant shall file the costs for calling 
for the record , and the costs will be the same as in the case of an appeal from 
the deoree of a Civil Court of the lowest jurisdiction . Service 

upon any other 
party will be made by the process fee as is required in miscellaneous , civil appeals . 

5 . Every application under the Act whether under secs. 22, 23 , 24 , 25 , or 27 
of the Act shall be accompanied by a copy of the certificate of marriage as entered 
in the Mærringe Certificate Book . 

Book . It shall conform , as far as may be , to Form 
No. 8 and contain the particulars wentioned therein . 

6 . When the application contains a prayer for a deoree for alimony and mainte 
nance as mentioned in section 36 or 87 of the Act the wife shall file a further 
statement containing the particulars of the property of the husband which it is 


2 


MANIPDB GAZETTE , APRIL 18, 1968 . 


accompany the 


1 


sought to be charged . Such statoment should form a part of or 
petition , but may, with the loave of the Court , be filed subsequently , but before 
the application is hoard . A copy of the statement shall be supplied to the other 
side if not already furnisbed in the petition itself, and the latter may file objection , 
If any , thereto . 

9. A party filing an application under any of the aforesaid sections shall , along 
with it , file as many , copios thereof as there are parties to the proceeding, and also 
the process - fees in court fee stamps for the service thereof . The fees for service 
of these notices shall be lovied in the manner 20 mentioned in the Schedule annexed . 

8. One copy shall be served in a conspicuous part of the residence of the 
husband and wife each , and shall be in the bature of a general citation as in 
sec , 283 of the Indian Succession Act , 1925 and one oopy shall be put up on the 
potice board in the Court house for information of the general public . A notice 
in duplioate with a copy of the potition shall also be sent to the office of the 
Marriage Officer in whose office the marriage was registered for publication in his 
notice board . The Marriage Officer shall return the duplicate with his endorsement 
thereon noting that it was duly published and the date when it was so publishe i. 

9. If the parents of the applicant and Opp . Party be alive notices shall also 
be served upon them . Where there is a child of the marriage a notice shall also 
be served upon him , and if the child be a minor it shall be served in the manner 
as provided for the C. P. Code, for service of a notice upon & Ipinor defendant , 
As many notices as there are children shall be served ; but one process fee should 
be lovied if the number of children do not exceed four notwithstanding the fact 
that they may be living in separate places. Where the number exceeds four , a 
separate process fee for each child in excess of four shall be realised . 
10 . 

The Court may, for reasons to be recorded is writing , issue orders for 
publication of the notice of an application under sections 23 , 24 , 25 , 27 or 28 of 
the Act in the local Official Gazette or in any local newspaper or in any other 
newspaper , or both or all . 

11. Any person interested in the matter may , within two weeks from the date 
of service of notice in the court bouse or on the residence of the husband or wife 
or the publication in the local gazette or other paper , whichever is later , intervene 
in the proceeding , and file & petition opposing the application on the ground that 
the parties are or have been acting in collusion . Such a person who comes after 
the aforesaid date may, before the application is actually heard , be allowed to in 
torvone if he satisfies the Court that there was no service in the residence or in 
the Court bouse, or that for any sufficient cause he was prevented from appearing 
on the date fixed . 


1 


12. The Court may , after hearing the parties and the intervener ask the latter 
to deposit such costs as it considers reasonable or direct him to furnish security for 
the same, if it appears to it that the intervention is intended to unnecessarily pro 
long the proceeding . 

13. Where in a proceeding the Court finds that the intervention was without 
jligt cause or frivolous or was malafide the Court may award costs to the successful 
party to be realised from the intervener . 

14 . In an application for divorce by husband on the ground of adultery of the 
wife the alleged adulterer shall be impleaded as a co - respondent and notice of the 
application with a copy thereof shall be served u ; on bim in the manner provided 


MANI 
MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 18 , 1985 . 


in the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 for service of summons, unloss the potitioner is 
exound from so doing on one of the following grounds : 

(i) that the respondent is leading the life of a prostitute , and that the peti 

tioner knows of no person with whom the adultery has been committed : 
(ü ) that the name of the alleged adulterer is unknown to the petitioner , 

although he has made the due efforts to discover it . 
(iii ) that the alleged adulterer is dead . 
(iv ) that the Court is satisfied on affidavit or otherwise that inspite of all 

Teasonable diligence the petitioner could not ascertain the present 
whereabouts of the alleged adulterer, or he has been residing at 
place out of the limits of Union of India , and it is not practicable 
to serve notice upon him without an amount of delay or expongo 
which under the ciroumstancos of the case the Court considers un 
reasonable ; provided however that in such Cages & notice with 
copy of the petition must be served at the last known residenco 
of the alleged adulterer within the Union in the manner de laid 
down in Or. 5 r. 20 Oivil Procedure Code, 1908 , 

Procedure Code, 1908, and the case 
shall not be heard unless one month has expired from the date of 

service of such notice . 
15 . Whenever in any petition presented by a husband the alleged adulterer 
has been made a co - respondent, and the adultery has been established , the 
may order the co - respondent t :) pay the whole or any part of the costs of the 
proceedings and such dainages , if any, as the Court may consider reasonable , 

Provided that in awarding damages the Court shall be guided by the princi 
ples which apply to awarding 
awarding of da :nages in 

under Section 34 of the 
Indian Divorce Act, 1869 ( Act IV of 1869 ) and providei also that the co - respon 
dout shall not be ordered to pay the petitioner s costs : 

(i) if the respondent was , at the time of the adultery, living apart from 

her husband , and leading , the life of prostitute or 
(ü ) if the co -respondent had not, at the time of the adultery , reason to 

believe the respondent to be a marrie i woman . 
16 . Court may , in any cas , direct issue of notice upon any party to the 
proceeding or upon any one whom it considers to be interested in the proceeding 
for Rervice by registered post with noknowledgment due in lieu of or in addition 
to the usual mode of service of votioe . 
17. When the petition is for divorce by mutual consent as provided by 

by se 
tion 29 of the Act, the petition shnll , nearly as may be contain the “ : partion ] 
mentioned in Form No. 3 and sball be verified in the manner at montioned 
therein . If there he any children of the Marriage it shall also contain 
arrangement . has been made for the custody of the children , Abel 

and 
maintenance, education etc. what arrangement, it any, has been made for 
alimony and paintenance of the wife and the period during which the arrangement 
shall continue and if a charge is to be declared ou any property of the hneband 
for the 

and decree is desired to be passei for the same, And if 
property is sought to be charged the petition shall contain full particulars 
description of the property . 

18. Any wife to whom the fourth section of the Indian Succession act; 1035 
does not apply , may, when deserted by her husband , present a potition to the 


cases 


Lionelo 


sama 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 18 , 1988 


-- 


ny timebitor shoh dovortiorforma order pastootmiany properties 
hich shp may have beoome possessed or may beopme pomembned after suph desertion 
gainst her husband of his creditors , or any person claiming under him ; and...in 
loh 02ses the provisions of sections 28 to 31 of the Indian Divorce Act shall , 
. lät as may be , apply . 

io . In a proceeding onder Chapters V , VI and VII of the Act the Court 
aky award costs to the stocessful party including the ploader s or Advooato s fee . 
The pleador s fee or Advocat s foe in such cases may be any amount which the Court 
onsiders reasonable and shall not ordinarily exceed Ra. 160. Ió éxooptional cases 
bowever the fee may be up to Rs. 320 /- . 

90. Copy of order paused in an appoal filed under section 17 or on an appli 
mation under secs . 23, 24, 25, 27,, or 28 of the Act , shall be forwarded to the office 
of the Marriage Officer in whose office the marriage was registered or certificate of the 
Iplovent marriage is maintained . 

21.Every rooord , of a case arising out of any of the nections aforesaid of the 
4,0t .. sball - be , inoluded in Clasa I Filo A. of these macords shall also contain the 
wheat containing the particulars of the property where they are charged for pay 
theat of alimony or maintenance . But if the properties are not 80 charged , the 
wheet containing the particulars of the property shall be inpluded in File D. 

22. Rooords of execution cases arising out of cases under Act shall be included 
in Clans IV . 

28. Registore prescribed in these rales shall be preserved permanently . 


- 


SCHEDULE OF PROCESS FEES . 


Rs. 21 
Rs. < / 


( 1 ) Fee for Gazette Notification 
( 2 ) Fee for publication in Notice Board 
(8 ) Fee for serving process to opposite parties not 

exceeding four persons ( Annas / 8 /- to be levied 
upon each person thereafter ). 

MARRIAGE APPEAL REGISTER . 


Rs.2 / 


( Form No. 1) 


order apo 


Seriai Date of pre- Name, description resis Bate of 
Xo. sontation of donde etc. of the 
the appeal. appellant 

Pealed 
against 


Reasons for the Date or dates of Order on 
order in brief Jervice of notjoe the ap 

upon the Marriage pool with 
Officer and any date of 

other person the order 
interested 


Datwhen 
there 
solt 
of 
the 
appeal senttothelarriage Officerconcorrod 


Remans 


1 


2 


4 


5 


7 


8 


. 


REGISTERFORMNO.2. 


RegisterofRestitutionofConjugal Rights, 


Judicial Separation,Dissolutionof Marriage,Divorce 


eto. 


SeriesDateoftheName,devoription,placeNameanddescription,Briatstatement Hoapplicationofresidenceete,oftheresidenceete,oftheaboutthefactaof 

applicant 

oppositepartythecaseandwhen 

thecodeofaction 

Grode 


Dateof Dateof 
OrderontheDate 
of 
pro- 
Rosult 
oftheAmountofDateandResultof 
theNumberof serviceofappearanonofapplicationsontationofapplicationalimonyifmemberoftheexecution 
andtheappeal Dotico·theonpositewiththedatethepetitionwithdateof|anydecreed 
Executionwithdateof 
onsewed 
the partyoftheorderforrescissiontheorder)28 

casoarisingtheinalorderrondthertor of 
the 
decree 
noentionedin 

out 
of 
noy 
on 

therein withdate forjudiciatcolama9 

theorders separation& begumberof theausin whichandthe dateonwhich 
the 
degree 
for 
judicial 
rope 
. ration 

pawood 


9 


8 


3 


6 


10 


12 


13 


14 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 18 , 1965 . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 18 , 1968 : 


FORM NO . 3 . 
1, A. B. beg to prevent this application for a deopes that the marriage botwosa 
me and my husband /wife be declared pull and void under sec . 24 of the Astmay be 
annulled under seo . 25 of tho Aot/ for a decreo of divorce against my wife / htusband . 
I give the particolars herein below : 

1. Name of the applicant and his decoription such as residence eto. - 
2. The name of the applicant s father , and his address if alive . 
3. Age of the applicant. 
4. Whother the appliqant is husband or wife . 
8. Namo, description and residence eto , of the opposite party , 

6. Whether the father of the opposito party is alivo , ( givo full addross of tho father 
if alive ). 

7. Age of the opposite party . 
8. Name and full address of any other/noar relation of the parties alive. 
9. Ofice where the marriage was solomnisod and tho date when solamnisod . 
10. Whether any obildren have been born of the marriago and if they are alive . 
If there are any obildren give 

any obildren give their names, Box and age, and montion in whore 
oustody they are living. 

11. Whether the parties are living together or soparate from each other. U 
soparate , the date since whea or the period during whioh liviog soparats . 

12. Approximate annual income of the husband and source of income . Whether 
the husband pays any income tax or agrioultural income tax or both , and it so 
the approximate amounts paid sbould be mentioned . 

13. Whether the wife has any independent income, and if so what is the souro . 
thoroof and what is the approximate annual income. And if the wife has any indo 
pondent income whether sho pays any income or agricultural income tax with amounts 
thereot paid annually . 

Whether any alimony is prayed for ( if the applicant be wife ), and if so , 
whether it is intended that any property should be charged . Brief dosoription of 
the property sought to be charged should also be given . 

16. Facts on which the claim to relief is founded and the date when the applioant 
Gimo to have knowledge of the said facts . 

16. Namo, father s name and full address of tho co -respondent when a petition 
for divorce is filod on the ground of adultory . 

17. Whether any damages are olaimed against tho co - respondant ? I so how 
moh ? 


VERIFICATION . 
I, A. B: do hereby solemnly declare that the statements made in paras above 
are true to my knowledge , that those mentioned in paras above are true to my 
information and I verdly believe the same to be true. I further solemnly doalare that 
there is no sullusion betwean my husband /wifo who is opposito party mind me in 
making this application . 
I sign this declaration at 

: .. this tho ......... day of ...... 19 

Signature of the applibank . 


1 


} 


1 


T 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 18 , 1966 . 


FORM No. 4 . 


Notioe to Respondent of the day fixed for the hearing of the appeal. 


( See Rule 3 ) 
In the Court of District Judge, Manipur. 
Marriage Appoal No .............. of 19 


Appellant . 


Ve. 


Respondent. 


То 


Bhri/Shrimati, 

Rospondent. 
Please take notice that an appeal from the order of the Marriage Officer at ......... paaned 
OD ...................day of ............ 19 ... in ............ 

Case No............. of 19 ...... of this office has been presented under soo .............of 
the Special Marriage Act, 1964 by Shri /Shrimati..... 

........and registered 
in this Court, and that the ... ... ... ...day of 19 has beon fised by this Court for 
the hoaring of this appeal. 

If no appearanoe iſ made on your bahalf by yourself , your pleader or by somo 
one authorized by law to aot for you in this appeal, it will be heard and decided 
in your absence . 
Given under my hand and the seal of the Court, this day of............ 10 

Judge . 


FORM No. 6 . 


Intimation to the Marriage Officer of admission of appoal. 

In the Court of District Judge , Manipur. 


Marriage Appeal No ....... ... of 19 
To 

The Marriage Officer, 
Please take notice that Shri/Shrimati.... 

.applicant /opposite 
party before you has preferred an appeal to this Court under 1e0 ................ of the 
Special Marriage Act , 1954 from the order passed by you on the......... day of ......... 19 . 
in Case No ............. of your office. 

You aro requested to send with all practioablo despatch all material papers in the 


: OAM . 


Judge. 


Dated the .........day of 19 


Imphal Printed and published by the Superintendent Government Preus C. 800 / 18-4.55. 


Manipur 


Gazette 


I 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 4 


Imphal, Wednesday , April 20 , 1966 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


1 


Part I. - Appointments , Postings , Transfers , Powers , 

Loave and other personal notions , 
art II. - Rorolutiops ; Regulations, Orders, Notif 

cations, Rules otc . 


Part III. - Orders, Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV .-- Advertiscmonts and Noticos ato . 


Nil 
3 to 12 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR. 


Order s by the Chief Commissioner . 

PART 1 

Imphal, the 11th April , 1955 . 
No. Tax /41 ( 1 )/51/45.-In exercise of the power conferred upon him by section 
2A of the Assam Amusements and Betting Tax ( Amendment ) Act 1946 as extended 
to the State of Manipur, the Chief Commissioner is pleased to appoint Shri A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Government of Manipur , as the Commissioner of Taxes for 
the State of Manipur with effect from 2-4-65 . 

T. Kalaoband Singh , 
Asstt. Socretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


- 


Impbal, the lith April , 1955 . 
No. Tax /41 ( 1 ) /51/47.-In exercise of the power conferred upon him by section 
13 of the Assam Amusements and Betting Tax Act 1939 as extended to the State 
of Manipur, the Chief Commissioner is pleased to delegate to Shri A. K. Ray , 
Corumissioner of Taxes , Manipur, all his powers under the said Act except those 
mentioned in sections 12 , 13 and 22 . 
This orders will bave effect from 2-4-55 . 

T. Kalachand Singh , 
Asstt . Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


ORDER , 


-- 


Imphal, the 12th April , 1956 . 
No: Tas141 (1)81/49. - In exercise of the powers conferred upon mo .by section 
2B of the Assam Amusements and Betting Tax (Amendment) Act 1946 as extended 
to the State of Manipur, with effect from the End of April, 1956 I delegate to 
Shri R. K. Sadahal Singh , Taxation Officer , Manipur, all my power under the 
afaretaid Aot , except those mentioned under sections 3 ( 3 ), 3 (4 ), 4 ( b ), 8 and 9 . 

A. K. Ray , 
Commissioner of Taxos, Manipar. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 20 , 1965 . 


1 


PART V 
Orders by the Chief Commissioner 

Imphal, the 11th April, 1965 . 
No.. Ex /14 /51.-- In supercension of the Order No. Ex / 14 /61 dated 12-1-62, the 
Obiet Commissioner is pleased to order that the duty on ruin wanufactured in 
India and imported into Manipur by the canteens of the Assam Rifles and the 
Manipur Rifles sball bie levied @ Rs.0/- per L. P. gallon . 
This order will bave effect from the date of publication in the Manipur Gazette. 

T , Kalachand Singh , 
Asstt. Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


Impbal, the 13th April , 1955 . 
No. R / Fy / 3 /53.- The Chief Commissioner is pleased to sanction the cancellation 
of Fishery No. 379 Kongolsoubi Loukhong from the Register of Govt. Fisberics 
with effect from let April, 1966 for irrigation purpurea . 

T. Kalaoband Singh , 
Asstt. Secretary to the Govt. of Manipar . 


NOTIFICATION . 

Dated Shillong , the 2nd April, 1956 . 
No. PFI/G / 1-2 /64-56 / 1.- Attention of al Central Gazettad Officers under the 
audit control of the Accountant General, Assam and of all tbe Treggury and Sub 
Treasury Officers in Assam , Tripura and Manipur is invited to the correction slip 
No. 184 to the Central Government Compilation of Treasury Rules , Vol. I , 98 
published in the Assam Gazette , Tripura Gazette and Manipur Gazette under this 
offios notification No. TM.2 /14 /54 /76 dated the 2nd February , 1956 . 

All Central Gazetted Officers are requested to furnish this .ofilce immediately 
with the following particulars in respect of their policies which are being financed 
from tbe Provident Fund account, quoting reference to the number of their fund 
accounts allotted by this office. 

(i) Name of the Insurance Company . 
(ii) No. and amount of the Policy . 

The amount of premium . 
(iv ) The due date of payment of promia . 
(v ) Name of the Treasury or the Bub - Treasury from wbiob the 

payment is required . 
(vi). The No. and date of this offiie letter in which acceptance was 

communicated . 
On receipt of the above particulars necesauty authority to the Treasury Officers 
obscerned will be issued . Henceforward no payment will be made by the Tree 
y Officers without such an authority . The particulads moptioned above shqala 

be furished with all new proposals in future . 
Whenever any Gazetted . Oficer is tranatetred from tho Jur sdiation of one trenduri 
that of another the details of the policy fil npood fooun Bpovident Fand. mala 
noted in the Last Puy Certificate by the Treasury Oficer. 


T.C. Bhattacharjee , 
Ansistant Account Officer. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 20 , 1968 . 


PART IV 
FISHERIES SALE NOTICE No. 2 . 

Imphal, the 5th April, 1956 . 
It is bereby notified for general information that the Government fisherios in 
Manipur details of which are given under Annexure A will be sold by publio auction 
ale 186 of the Assau Laud and Revenue Regulation for a period of lease up-to 
81-3-88 at the risk of and on Xocount of the first purchasers at the annual auction 
name they have failed to pay the security deposit required u / s. 184 of the same Re 
gulatiop . The sale will be held on the 10th May , 1950 and in 

10th May , 1950 and in the office of the 
Deputy Commissioner, Manipur . 

On the same day the fisheries under Annexure B also will be re- sold for the 
2nd time as they had no bid . at the annual auction sale . 

The sales will be subject to the following conditions : -- 

( 1 ) . The Officer conducting the sale does not bind himself to accept the bighost 
bid or any bid and reserve the discretion to auction the settlement for either & 
longer or a shorter term than that specified above . The successful bidder will be 
required to produce a solvenoy certificate before bis bid is confirmed : 

( 2 ) The purchaser shall immediately after the acceptance of his bid , where the 
bia exceeds 100 / - furnish a sum equal to one quarter of a years revenue or 
Rs. 100 /- whighever is the greater and shall require to furnish within 7 days of 
the date of sale additional recurity to the satisfaction of the Deputy Commissioner 
80 as to bring up the total amount of the security to one third of the revenue for 
the full term of the settlement. If the bid is Rs. 100 /- or less, the entire bid amount 
must be paid immediately after acceptance of the bid . 

If he fails to furnish the initial or the additional security as prescribed above 
the fishery sball be re -sold at his risk in the former case forthwith , in the 
latter case after issue of the notice prescribed by Rule 185 , and in either 
case be sliall be bound to make good the difference between his bid and 
the amount realised by the subsequent sale caloulated on the whole period 
of settleinent . 

Provided that the Deputy Commissioner may , for special reasons , require 
him to make good only the difference between his bid for one year of the 

settlement and the amount realised for that period by the sebsequent sale . 
( 3 ) In the purchaser fails to execute a counterpart within one month from the 
date of the auction the fishery shall be re- sold at his risk and he sball bo bound 
to make good the difference between his bid and the amount realised by the sub 
soquent sale , calculated on the whole period of settlement. 

Provided that the Deputy Commissioner may for special reasons require 
him to make good only the difference botween his bid for one year of the 

settlement and the amount renlised for that period by the subsequent sale . 
( 4 ) If the purchaser fails to execute a counterpart within oue month of the 
date of auotion , or it he fails to do anything which is required or bound ander 
Sub - para ( 2) and ( 3) above the Deputy Commissioner may further direct that be 
aball also forfeit the security furnishod if any , or any portion of it. 

(6 ) Every Lessee should pay half of one year s revenue on or before the 18th 
and the remaining half on or before the 31st July . 

The sum furnished as security under para (? ) above shall be adjusted 
against the best instalamant puxable during the lesse (vide Goveramont of 
Manipar Notification No. 131 of 5/4/50 ) . 


1 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 20 , 1966 : 


( 6) In the river fisheries commonly used by the public for navigatioa no buod 
of any kind may be : constructed and taste of Mahajal having a mesh of less than 2 
inob square is prohibited . 

(7) Lossues of beel fisheries should keep the fisheries clear of water hyacioth . 

( 8 ) Special conditions to be observed by the lessons for different fisheries will 
be anounced immediately before the sale of the fishery concerned and will be recorded 
in the bid register. 

(9 ) Should the lessee or any agent of his infringes any of the conditions of his 
lease the Deputy Commissioner may cancell the lease in which caso all suos paid 
by the lessee on account of the fishery will be forfeited and the lessee will be 
liable for any loss inourred by Government in the re-settlement of the fishery . 

(in ) The settlement will be subjeot to the approval of the Chief Commissioner, 
Manipur. 

V. S. Sundaram , 

Deputy Commissioner , Manipur . 
LIST OF FISHERIES TO BE SOLD 

ANNEXURE ( A ). 


Finhery 

No. 


Name and looation 

of Fishery . 


Bounda . 

ry . 


Name of the leaee with whom it was 

last settled . 


Term & price for 
which it WAS 

last sold . 
Term Price . 
5 

6 
one year 

up - 10 1,350 / 
31-3-56 


1 


2 


3 


4 


111 


Kumbi Kangsoibi 


2 


Khomdram Bidbu Singu s /o late Tolen 
Singh of Kwakeithel. 


118/864 Haotakpot & 

Tugampat 


( 1 ) Amom Sur Singh 
( 2 ) Loitongbam Jadbop Singh of Wangoo 
Aballup . 


1,950 / 


1 


150 


Wargoo Irup 


Khomdram Bidhu Singh of Kwakeithel. 


... 


1,525 / 


186 


Pumlen 


Thokchom Nilakomol Singh of 
Shingjamoi. 


10.300 / 


169 


dom 


... 


Chairel Nongyai 
Khong 


1,220 / 


169A 


Chaire ! Tronglaobi 


Khomdram Bidhu Singh ( 2 ) Chandramani 
Kbullakpa of Chairel, 


585 / 


175 


One year 


Cholangkom , Wai . 
khong Ningthonnai 


. 


Thokchom Nilskomol Singh of 
Shingjamei. 


600 / 


ending 
lon31-3-55 


177 


Kakyaipat 


(1 ) Mayengbam Tolchou Singh , 
( 2 ) Yumnam Anngouba of Langmoidong . 


2,81014 


282 


Ushoipokpi 


... 


8,1107 


( 1 ) Nurdin Mia s / o Sarafdin 
( 2 ) Tomba 

Melei 
( 3 ) Abdulla 

Abdul Mia of Turel : 
Abanbi. 


828 


Thamomtak 


9001 


( 1 ) Khwairakpam Tomoha Singh , 
(2 ) Hemam Sangoijao , 
(8 ) Phairembam Ibohs). 
Konam Pisak Singh of Moitang pok 


380 


81-8-58 . 


Moitaapok Khanou 
Tarel 


801 


61 , 


Mnnnngpat , 
Loarembam 


Khomdram Yaima Singh of Loarombam | 81-8-87 


000 / 


4, 


yeur , 


3 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 20 , 1985 . 


ANNEXURE ( B ). 


1 


2 


S 


4 


er 


8 


12 . 


To be seen from D.C. s Office 


One year 


32 . 


34 , 


38 . 
30 . 
87. 
40 . 
41. 


25 / 
10 / 
20 / 
10 / 
40 / 

20 / 
No bid . 

10 / 


No bid . 


AUA , 


Kairang Itup 
Laironkabi 
Atom Khumal 
Kanguabi 
Maklang 
Nguiranglam 
Awangjiri 
Nambol Itup 
Lamphodba 
Heikrujam 
Khabikhong bal, 
Thangtek Meitei 

portion . 
Naga portion ) 
Nupihiden Nam 
thikhong. 
Nerak hobg . 

... 
Thounaojam Itup . 
Leimaram Turol 
Toubul Turel 
Langathel Tural 
Phoijing Haoroukom 
Sumairon Loukhong 
Kakching Wairi Loukhong . 


11 / 


45 B. 


41 . 


50 . 
58 . 


75 . 


87 . 


... 


No big . 

15 / 

10 
No bid . 
No bid . 

25 / 
30 / 

16 / 
No bid . 


307. 


328 , 
381 . 


352 . 


TENDER NOTICE . 


Imphal the 11th April , 1955 . 
Sealed tenders are invited from bonafide labour contractors for rate par maund 
for supply of labour required for taking delivery of consignments from railway goods 
or pazcel sheds or railway wagons and storing the same into M. S. T. godown at 
Dimapur uod loading the same into 

into the vehicles for onward despatob to Imphal 
or unloading consignments from vehicles and giving delivery of the same to the 
tail way at parool or goods sheds or wagons for a period of one year from the date 
of acceptance of tender . Demurrages or otherwise payable for delay in delivery resulting 
from shortage of labour will be charged to the contractor. Monthly payment will 
be made on bills submitted by the contractor and accopted by the department . 

Btopedsful tenderer is to deposit a sum of Rs. 500 / — within seven days from the 
date of acceptance of tender . 

Tenders should reach the undersigasd on or before 29-4-1965 and will be opened 
at 12.00 next day in presence of those who oleot to be present. The widotsigaod 
does not bind himself to accept the lowest tende . or any tender and to soatgan ay 
reason thereof. 

Kh. Buddha Singh , 
Manager , M. 15. 1. Dopuritheanta 


MANIPOR GAZETTE , APRIL 20, 1965 . 


+1 


Dated , Caloutta , the 14th April, 1955 . 
The following notification is published for general information . 

V. N. Hoon , 
Commissioner of Incometax , 

A ssam , Tripura & Manipur. 
INCOMETAX . 


- 


-- 


8 


Return of Total Income and of Total World Income of the previous 

your for annonsment in the your commencing on the 1st April, 1956 . 

In pursuance of sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 22 of the Indian Incometax Act , 
1922 (XI of 1922 ), each of the Incometax Officers, whose designation , address, juris 
diotion and signature appear in the Table below , hereby gives notice to every 
person subject of his jurisdiction , as specified therein , whose total income during 
th previous year oxoeeded the maximum amount not chargeable to Incomutax , to 
furnisl to him within 65 days from the date of the publication of this notice 
return in the prescribed form and verified in the prescribed manner setting forth 
(along with such other particulars 48 are required by the said form ) the total 
income and the total world income of such person during that year. 

The returo furnished should include in Section D of the prescribed forma 
particulars of any income which is not considered liable to tax for any reason 
whatsoever. If this is done, the income 80 disclosed would not be considered to 
have been concealed ovou it in the assessment it is held to be liable to tax . 

A copy of the prescribed form will be supplied free of charge to any 
person who , for the purpose of complying with this potice, applies to the Income 
tax Officer concerned . 

Every such person is further advised to ensure compliance with this notice , 
sinoe any frilure without reasonable calise to furnish the return required by this 
notioe, or failure without reasonable cause to furnish it within the time allowed 
or in the manner required will entail a penalty not exceeding one and half 
times the tax payable . 

PLACE OF ASSESSMENT :-Under the provisions of section 64 of the said 
Act where HD Assossee carries on & business , profession of vocation at any place 
he shall be assessed by the locometax Officef of the area in which that place is 
situate , or where the business profession or vocation is carried on in more places 
tban one by the Inqpmetax Officer of the area in which the principal place of 
business , profession or voortion is situate , and in all other cases an assessee shall 
be assessed by the Incometax Officer of the area in which he resides. 

Provided that where an Ingometax Officer has been specially empowered to 
ASSES : certain classes of income and certain persons or class of persons, the ashes) 
mont of such persons and such income will be made by the Incomatex Officer so 
empowered . 

Non - Residents (i) Those who are not assessed through statutory agents under 
section 43 and who have any inoome for direct assonament (i. e. income from house 
property , interest etc. ) will be assessed by the Incometax Officer of the Circle in 
which the greater part of the ansestable income arose in the assessment year 1989-40 
or in the first year of assessment, whichever year is later , provided that the same 
officer shall have jurisdiction for subsequent years 80 long as some incomo for 
direct assessment ( aot necessarily the greator part) continue to arise within his 
jurisdjotion. 

(ü ) Those who are assessed through statutory agenta under section 48 of 
the Indian Incometax Act 1922, whether their income arişds in singló stato 
in more than one stato : will be annessed by the locometas Oficer having jum 
diction over the area in which the Statutory Agent barrios on the brainer 
of which incometas is chargeable in his name undor svötion 

Can who 
the case may bo .. 


1 


r 


1 


to be 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 20 , 1968 . 


7 


4 


TABLE 
( REFERRED TO IN PARA 1 ) 


Dantzantion of the 
Inooretar Ondoor , 


Addross . 


Jnrisdiction . 


signature of the 
lavomchas Oficer . 


+ 


Incometax Officer 
Dibrugarh . 


P. O. Dibrugarh 
Dist . Lakbimpur. 


1st Additional 
Inoometax Omoor 
Dibrugarh . 


P. 0. Dibrugarh 
Dist . Lakhimpur 


2nd Additional 
Incometas Oficor 
Dibrugarh 


P. 0. Dibrugarh 
Dist . Lakhimpur 


Canes allocated by 
the Commissioner 
of Incometax , As 
BANI, Tripura and 
Manipur Sil- S.R. Bhattacbarjee. 
Dibrugarh sub - division of 
the Lakhimpur Din 
trict and Sadiya Front 
tier Tract excluding cases 
allocated to some other 
Incometax Officers . Sd - S.M.M. Islan . 
Dibrugarh sub - division of 
the Lakhimpur distriot 
and Sadiya Frontier Tract 
excluding cases allocated 
to some other Income-tax 
Officers. ( ii) Covenantud 
and other employees of 
the Burmah Oil Co. ( In 
dia Trading) Ltd. work 
ing in Northern India 
and Eastern India other 
than those statiuned in 
Calcutta having Head .. 
quarters , at Digboi, (iii ) 
Covenanted and other 
employees of the Burmal 
Oil Co. (Iudia Concession ) 
Limited working in Nor 
thern India and Eastern 
India otber than those 
stationed in Calcutta 
having Headquarters at 
Digboi . 

8d7- D.K. Dey 
Dibrugarh sub - division of 
Lakhimpur District and 
Sadiya Frontier Tract 
excluding cases allocated 
to some other Inocno 
tax Officers . 

Sd / K.K. Dutta 


-- 


-- 


3rd Additional 
Incomotax Offior 
Dibrugarh 


P. 0. Dibrugarh 
Dist . Lakhimpur 


Inoome - tax Officer 
Gauhati 


P. O. Gauhati 
Dist. Kamrup 


d 


Kamrup distriot excluding 
cages allocated to some 
othor Income tax Oficors . 

Baj- A.O , Sarma 


1 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 20 , 19685 . 


1 


2 


3 


Additional Incometar 
Onod Gauhati . 


P. O. Gauhati 
Diot. Kamrup 


Kamrup distriot exoluding 
cases allocatted to some 
otber Incometax Officers . 
( ii ) Employees of North 
Fastern Railway under 
Audit of the Regional 
Accounts Officer, Pandu . 

Sd . A. M. Das 


Inoomgetox Officer Not . 
gong 


P. O. Nowgoog 
Dist. Nowgong 

(Asya ) 


Nowgong district, Naga 
Hins District, Mikbir Bills 
subdivision of the United 
Mikhir and North Cachar 
Hills district exoluding 
Olles allooated to BOMO 
other luoomotax Officers . 
2 . State of Manipur . 


8d / - L.R. Jain 


Inoomtax Officer Tezpur 


P. 0. Tezpur 
Dist. Darrang 


Darrang district, Bali 
para Frontier Traet and 
North Lakhimpur snb 
division of Lakhimpur 
district oxcluding Cases 
allocated to some other 
Incometax Officers . 

8d / - 6.0 . Bhattacharjee 


Inoometax Officer Dhubri 


P. O. Dhubri 
Dist. Goalpara 


Goalpara District and 
Garo - iHils districts ex 
cluding cases allocated 
to eome other Incometax 
Officers . 

84 /- K.P. Ghosh 


Incometax Offioor Shillong P. O. Shillong United Khasi and Jain . 

Dist. United tia Hills District inclu 
Khasi and Jain- diag Shillong Adminis 
tia Hilla . 

tered Aros , Canton 
jaent Area and Municipal 
Area exoluding cases al 
located to some other 
Incometax Officers. (ii ) 
All ongos of Government 
servants in the State ot 
Asband who aro under 
the Audit Control of the 

Accountant Goneral , 
A. 


G.R. Bhatta 

oharjo 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 20 , 1955 . 


2 


3 


4 


-- 


some 


Incometax Officer Silcbar. P. O. Silchar District of Cachar and 

Dist. Cachar . Mizo ( Lushni) Hills , 

North Cachar Hills anabo 
division of the United 
· Mikbir und North Ca 
char Hills district ox 
cluding 

Og ses alloonted 
to some other Income 
tax Officers , 

Sd /- P.C..Bhatte 

charjeo. 
Incometax Officer 

P. O , Jorhat Sibsagar district exclud 
Jorbat. 

Dist. Sibsagar. 

ing cases allocated to 

other Incomtax 
Officers . 

Sdl . B.C. Dutta . 
Additional Incometax P. 0. Jorhat Sibsagar distriot exclu 
Oficer Jorhat. 

Dist . Sibsagar. 

ding Cases allocated to 
some 

other Incometax 
Oficers . 

Sdl . B.C. Dutta . 
Incometax Officer Spe P. O. Shillong 

Alt new 

CABOA except 
cial Survey ( ircle , 

Dist. United Khasi assessees having income 
Shillong . 

and Jaintia Hills . only from salary dis 

covered in the course 
of Survey operations or 
otherwise in all the 
districts of the State 
ot Assain , ( ii ) Cast s 
transfr- rred to bim under · 
seotion 5 (7A ) of the In- . 
cometax Act . 

N.K. Das . 
Incometax Officer 

P. 0. Agartala State of Tripura . 
Tripura . Dist . Tripura . 

Sdr B.N. Sarma 

Barthakur . 
Note :-The jurisdiction of each of the lucometax Officers mentioned above is. 
necessarily brief as a detailed description of their respective jurisdiction would run 
to several pages . A list of the areas 

A list of the areas or classes of person cotuprised in each Officers 
jurisdiction will , however, be found in the Notice Board of Incometax Officer 
concerned . If any person is in doubt as regards the Officer to whom he shuuld 
submit the return , he may enquire sither from the nearest Incometax Officer 
from the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of Inoometax , Assam , Tripura and 
Manipur , Shillong . 

NOTIO E. 

Imphal, the 18th April, 1955 . 
All gun licenses pertaining to the out lying Sub -division i. e. Ukhrul, Chura . 
chandpur, Temenglong and Jiribam will not be renewed at Imphal. The ilipensees 
should prevent their application to their respective Sub -divisional Hasd quarters for 
renewal. 

V. 8. Bundaram , 
District Magistrate , Manipur , 


Sdl• 


If any 


OT 


-- 


Sachetulo:ListofRegistereddeators. 


MANIPURSTATE 


Deter 


Rugtf.Doleof 
Italiontition 


Mente 
al 
dbalet 


Address 
. 


Katard bacinos 
. 


Classofgoodsantitledtotar- 
free, 


Manipur 


MaxwellBazar 


** 
0-50 
8. 
B. 
Muklet 

TheMasterLakshmiStore. 


Do. 


Do, 


58 


Kisturichand 
Joharipal. 


Do. 


Retail 
Grocery 
and 
Stationery 
. distribution 30 
. 
Food 
stuff-( 
gallamal 
) 
, 
Rangeaban, 
Tashing 
soap 

Washing 
soda 
, 
Salt 
, 
Tealeaver, 
Taglass, 
Tobreco 

leaves 
, 
Bidis 
and 
Cigarettes 
Glycerine 
. 
V. 
ghee 
. 
Wholesale 
&GeneralMerchandise,Yarn,Salt,Handloom. retiatdiatribution 
cloth 
,Seving 
thread 
,Vegetable 
ghee,Tesleaf 
, 

Foodstuff 
and 
soap 
andmillmade 
cloth, 
Do 
: 
Cloth 
and 
yarn 
band 
roořen 
product 
and 
sugara 

Reteit 
Merchandise 
, 
Motor 
parts 
, 
Acomsories 
, 
Prints distributionAcid 
, 
Distilled 
water, 
Cycle 
tyres 
, 
Taber 
, 
Work 

shoptools. 


28-0-50Manipar 
MerchantsCo- 
operative 

AnnsociationLtd. 


VDanaINYA 


Bo 
. 


46-850 


& 
Phulacharidin 
Singh 
& 
Sons 
, 


Dlo 
. 


26-6-60HiljemBeimwSingh&Sors. 


Do. 


Do. 


Yarn 
,Soap 
, 
Tea 
, 
Dal 
, 
Excercisebook 
,Matehes, 
Bircuits 
, 
Cigaretter 
, 
Biris 
, 
Nail 
, 
Pan 
musala 
, 
Dry 
nut,Washing 
soda 
,M.oil. 
V.gbee,Coconut 
oil 
, 
Torch 
light 
and 
Dry 
battery 
cells 
. 
Papers 
and 
stationery 
, 
Cosmeties 
, 
Nutriments dyer 
,Paints 
, 
Chemicals,Sundries, 
Book 
, 
Stationery,Luxury 
goodsandMedicine. 


26-0-80 


N.M,Goneration& 
Co. 


Do. 


Do. 


APRIL 20 , 1988 . 


Do. 


58 


29-8-10 
ImphalSchool 
Store 
. 


Do. 


Do. 


NohonBrothers&Co. 


Do. 


Do. 


Motor 
parts 
and 
Accessories 
. 


80 


266-8DPopularMatalMart 
, 


Do. 


Do. 


Iron 
scraps 
, 
Brass 
scraps 
, 
Opium, 
allominiam, 


Metal 
motor 
scraps 
. 


Do. 


29-660 
M. 
Kalo 
Singh 
. 


Do. 


Do. 


Brass 
metal 
, 
Alluminium 
, 
Warer 
, 
Stationary 
, 
Kirana 
and 
Yarn 
. 


2864 
Rewaarain 
Bhimraj 
. 


Do. 


Wholesale 
&Paper,stationery,Handloomclotha,Millmade retaildistributioncloths 
,Cottonyarn,Clothe,Salt,Matcher, 
Tea 

Ileaves, 
Somp,Ironparta,Mill,Battery 
cells 
eto. 


Clasiaofgoodsentitledtotasfoe. 


Romanto 
. 


Gameofdealer. 


Addreso. 


Natureof businosa 
, 


ntion. 


Manipur 
. 


MaxwellBazar 


8$ 


29-6-50 


KaphaiHoajalidhuSingh 


Retail distribution 


Do. 


Do. 


29-6-50 


HijamIbochouSingh, 


Do. 


SadarBazar 


Do. 


Cottonyarn,Milk,Betalnut,Drycell,Matok Jari,Umbrella,Bidis,silkyarn,deid. Gallamal,Soup,Washingsoda,Salt,Tealeaves, Candles,Condensedmilk. €ycleandCycle,accessories,Umbrella,Hosiery, goods,Hardwares,Lampparte, Cigarettes,Bidis,Matehes,Sundrier. Foodstuff&dailyusesuch88Dal,Salt,Mastered oretc.Stationery,Tealeaves,Soap&Vegetable ghee. 


Do. 


29-6-50 


N.L.Singh&Bros, 


MaswellBazar 


Do. 


26-6-50 


Do. 


88 


Friends Union&Co. 


Do. 


Do. 


63 


28-6-50 


Jiranji&Co. 


Do. 


Do. 


68 


37-8-80SiligramRaiChunilallBahadur 

&Co.AgentB0.C. 


Do. 


Wholesale&Petrol,Kerosene,Lubricantoil,Mineralprodaete, retaildistributionMotorparts,Motortyrer,Tuber,Distilledwater, 

Solphuricacid,Foodstuff. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 20 , 1956 . 


Do. 


69 


29-8-30 


RatanSing&Suas. 


Do. 


Retail distribution 


Radio&Accessorier,Luxurygoods,Gallamal, Cigarettes,Bidis,Battery&Bakerycelle,Soap, Condensedmilk.Matcheslea,Salt,Distilled water,Batteryacid,Pulser,Cerealscotton,Cotton yarn,Sagw,Peasgrains,ToothLineb,Paste, CameraAccessorier,Woollengoods,Oiletc. 


Do. 


10 


29.6-50 


PhulchandTrilokchand. 


Do. 


Wholesale&Motorpartaccessories,Lubricants,Grease,Tgres, retaildistributionCycleparte,Cycleaccessories,Distilledwater, 

Sulphuricacid,HandIcomcloth,Yarn,V.ghee Tea,Batteryetc.Brass,Iron,PipeRice,Motor, Trucks;&Cars,Chillies,&Keroseneoil. 


Do. 


11 


29-1-50 


MotilallChigtalall. 


Do. 


Do. 


Handloomcloths,Salvagematerials,Matches, Millcloth,Yam,Soap,Foodstaff,Saltete. Rice,Potatoer,DaleCotton,Vegetablesghee, Soap,Endiootton,Coconut,Biris&Cigarettes. 


Do. 


72 


28-6-50|8.HerSingh&Sons. 


Do. 


Do. 


Cloth,Yon,Iron&Steelgoods, 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


29-8-50ManipurCo-operativeBankLtd. 


·78 


IL 


•Tobecontittende 


12 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 20, 1968 . 


NOTICE . 

Imphal, the 19th April, 1956. 
No. 37 /CS / I/54-55 - It is hereby notified for general information that, pursuant to 
veotion 9 of the Coperative societies . Act II of 1912, the Modern Industrial Co 
operative Society Ltd. has been regietered and numbered as 37 of 1964-66 dated 
the thirteenth April , of the year one thousand nine hundred and fifty five Annu 
Domini. 

K. G. Singh , 
Assistant Registrar, 

Co -operative Societies , Manipur 

Imphal, the 19th April, 1966, 
No. 4 / F /54-55 .-- It is hereby notified for general information that pursuant to 
Sootion 69 of the Indian Partnership Act IX of 1932 M / 8 Bawa Rattan Singh & 
Bons has been incorporated that it is Partnership Firm and numbered as No. 4 of 
1964-58 , dated the twenty eigth March of the year one thousand nine hundred and 
fifty five Anno Domini . 

K. G. Singh , 
Registrar , of Hirm , Manipur. 


ent Gover 


Manipur 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 5 - E - 2 


Imphal, Wednesday , April 27 , 1955 . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Imphal, the 27th April, 1955 . 
No. J /28 /54. — The following notifcation issued by the Government of India is 
published in the Manipur Stato Gazette . 

Sd / - T. Kipgen , 
Home Secretary . 


No. F. 12 (2 ) / J / 11 /65. 

NOTIFICATION . 


Ministry of Home Affairs, 

New Delhi , dated the 26th April , 1955 . 
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 2 of the Part C States (Laws) 
Act, 1950 (XXX of 1950 ), the Central Government hereby extends to the State of 
Manipur the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898 (Act V of . 1898 ) , as at present in 
force in the State of Assam , with the following restrictions and modifications, 
namely_ (a ) throughout the said Code, references to the State Government shall be 
construed as references to the Chief Commissioner, (b ) in Section 1, for sub- section 
( 2), the following shall ba substituted , namely — “ (2 ) It extends to the whole of India 
except the State of Jammu and Kashmir , but in the absence of any specific pro 
vision to the contrary, nothing herein contained shall affect the Manipur State Courts 
Act , 1947 , or the Manipur State Hill Peoples ( Administration ) Regulation , 1947, or 
any order spacial or local law now in the State of Manipur, or any spacial jurist 
diction or power conferred or any special form of Procedure prescribed , by any 
other law for the time being in fvroe .” (c ) For the purpose of facilitating the 
application of the said Code in the State of Manipur, any court or other authority 
may construe the said Code with such alterations, not affecting the substance , as 
may be necessary or proper to adapt it to the matter before the court or othor 
authority . 

Sd /- A. V. Pai, 
Secretary . 


Imphal : 

-Printed sad published by the Superintendent Government Press O. 200 / 37-4-85 . 


सत्यमेव जपने 


Manipur 


Gazette 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 6 


Imphal, Wednesday , April 27 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 
Part III. - Orders, Notifications, Rules of 
the Government of India , 

Nil 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Notices eto . 15 to 17 


Part I.-- Appointments, Postings, Trans- ers, Powers , 

Loave and other personal notioon , 
Part II. - Xesolutions, Regrilations , Orders , Notifi 

cations , Rules etc. 


1 


1 to 15 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chiof Commissioner . 


PARTI 


liphal, the 26th April , 1955 . 
TOUR PROGRAMME OF DR . HN. KUNZRU AND SARDAR K.M. PANIKKAR , 

MEMBERS : STATES REORGANISATION COMMISSION . 


Halt at Silchar , 

oth Dep . 
5t ]ı Arr . 


11.30 


Thursday 
Thursday 


by air service 241. 


Silchar 
Imphal 


11.55 


Friday 
Friday 


Halt at Imphal . 

6th Dep . 
6th Arr . 


Imphal 
Kohima 


14.00 By road (87 miles). 
19.00 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur , 


PART U 


Imphal, the 18th April , 1955 . 
No. R2/53/27. - In exercise of th : power confírred upon him hy section 66 of 
the Assam Land and Revenay Regulation 1886 , as applied to Manipur , the Chief 
Commissioner of Manipur is pleased to declaro 

is pleased to declare that the last date for payment of 
land revenue should be the 31st of March every year. 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


Imphal, the 18th April, 1955 . 
No. Elec /2 /54. - The Chief Commissioner wishes to make it clear that it is a 
breach of Rule 23 of the Government Servants Conduct Rules for any Govern 
mnent Servant to a : t as n polling agent of a candidate in any election and that 
fuitable disciplinary action will be taken for any such breach , 

G. H. Singh , 
Asstt. Cocretary (Home) to the Govt. of Manipur. 


2 


MANIPUP. GAZETTE , AI RIL 27, 1955 . 


Imphal, the 26th April , 1955 . 
The following letter No. TM . 38/ 37-38/4544-4574 dated March 55 received from 
the Accountant General, Assam , is republished for funeral information : 

T. Kalachand Singh , 

Aggit . Secy . to the Govt. of Manipur . 
I have to invite your attention to this office letter No. TM . 38 /37-38 /4107-50 
dated the 24th March , 1954 regarding deduction of indume-tax from interest on Govt. 
securities during the financial year 1954-55 . 

2 . 

The Finance Act, 1955 lays down that Income-tıx for the year beginning 
on tho first day of April, 1955 , shall be charges at the rates specifiod in the Sche 
dulo below : 

SCHEDULE . 
leale . 

Surcharge. 
In the case of every company. 

- / 4 / - in the 

1 / 20th of the rate 
rupe .. 

spooified in the pre 

ceding column , 
In this case of every individual, Hindu Uniivi led la :nily unregistered firm and 
other association of persons 

Rate . 

Surcharge . 
1 . On the first Rs. 1,000 / - of total income? Nil 

NI 
of uu unmarried person and Rs. 2,000 / -in 
case of it married person of total incoll . 


2 . 


Nije pics in the 

rupee . 


On the next Rs. 4,000 ;- of total income 
in the cas: of an unmarried porson and 
Rs. 3,000 /- of total income in the case of 
a married person . 
On the next Rs. 2,500 of total inconue. 


One -twentieth of 
the rate specified 
in the preceding 
column . 

do 


3 . 


4. On the next Rs. 5,000 / - of total income . 


Two annas and 
nine pies in the 

rupeo . 
Three annas & 
three pies in the 

rupee . 
Four annas in 


do 


5 . 


On the balance of total income. 


do 


tbe rupee . 


3. In making payment of interest on Government securities on or after the 
1st April, 1955 , you should deduct income- tax at the maximum rato of four annas 
in the rupee along with the surcharge Hs stated above , except in the cases where 
an exemption or abatement certificate , grantor loy an Income Tax Officer in India 
under the proviso to sub.section ( 3 ) of Section 18 of the Indian Income Tax Aot 
1922, is produced . The following instructions should be followed in this connection : 
( i) Exemption certificatos issuod before the 1st April, 1955 authorising de 

duction of tax it wil pics in the rupee should be accepted and acted 
upon , Abatement cortificates, if any specifying the rate of 4 , 2. 2/3 , 2 
or 1.1/ 3 pies in the rupee should be treated as exemption certificate and 

no tax should be deducted in such cases . 
( ii ) 

No tax should be deducted in cases in which , from a certificate issued 
by the Income- tax Officer or otherwise you are satisfied that the payeo 
is a person exempt from Income-tax under Section 4 ( 3 ) of the Indian In . 

come- tax Act, 1922. 
(ii) 

In the case of abatement certificates issued between 1st April, 1939 and 
31st March , 1946 , specifying the basic rates of 9.15 and 34 pies in the 
rupee or such hasic rates increased by a rate of surcharge, basic rates 
only excluding the surohatge , should be deemed to have been altered 
to 9.27 and 39 pios in the nupue respectively to ench of such basic 
rates , should be added a surcharge equal to one-twentieth thereof and 
the tax deducted accordingly . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 27 , 


1955 . 


( iv ) Abatement certifioates issued after 1st April , 1946 specifying rates lower 

than 12 , 24 and 42 pies in the rupee respectively should be deemed as 
if tbe figures 12 , 21 and 42 were * road ay 9 , 27 and 39 together with 
ao surcharge equal to one -twentieth of ench of such basic rates and tax do 

ducted accordingly . 
( v ) Where certificate is issued by the Income- tax Officer on or after lot 

April, 1956 authorising deduction of Income- tax at a specified rate in 
respect of any person Income-tax shall be deducted at the rates speci 
fied therein H8 the certificate will be based on the partioular facts of 

the caso . 
( vi ) In cases of doubt the nearest Income- tax Officer sbould be consulted 

before making the dediction from interest ou Govt. securities , 
4. In waking payment of interest on Govt . securities to a person whom you 
bave no reason to believe to be resident in the taxable territories , super-tax should 
also be deducted at the following rates except in cas93 where an exemption or abate 
meut certificate grinted by an Income tax Officer in India . under the proviso to sube 
section ( 2B ) of Section 18 of ladian Income-tax Act, 19 : 2 is produced : 

( i) If such 4 person is a company at the rate applicable to a company 

namely - 4/9 por rupee . 
(ii ) If such a person is not a company , at 

tho flat rate of i anna per 
rupec plus 1/ 20th thereof as surcharge provided his total income from 
interest on securities does not exceed Rs. 35,000. If his total income 
exceeds Rs. 3500 /- at tho rate applicable to the income from intorest on 
securities treating it as his total inoome. A schedule of super- tax rato 

is enclosed . 
( iii) Where a certificate is issued by the Iocomc- tax Oficr authorising de 

duction of super-tax at a specified rate , in respect of any non - rosident 

person , super-tax should be deduct :d at the rate specified therein . 
Note : - At present the term “ lavable territories " ineans the torritory of India including the stato 
of Jamniu and Kaslımir . 

SCHEDULE . 

Rate of Sufer - Tax . 
( i) In the case of a Company. 

-, 4 / - per rupee 
( ii ) in the case of person other than a company. 

Rate . 

Surcharge. 


1. On the first Rs. 20,000 of 

total income 
On the next Rs. 5,000 of 
total income 


Nil 
Onc anna in the rupee 


2 . 


Nil 
One twentieth of the 
rate specified in the 
preceding column 

do 


Three aunas iu the rupce 


Five annas in the rupee 


do 


Six andas in the rupes 


do 


Seven annas in the rupee 


do 


3 . On the next Rs. 15,000 of 

total income 
4 . On the next Rs. 10,000 of 

total income 
5 . 

On the next Rs. 10,000 of 

total income 
6. On the next Rs. 20,000 of 

total income 
On the next Rs. 20,000 of 

total income 
8 . 

On the next Rs. 50,000 of 

total income 
9. On the balance of total income 


Eight apnas in the rupeo 


do 


7 . 


Nine apnas in the rupec 


do 


do 


Nine and a balf apnas 
in the rupee 


1 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 27, 1958 . 


Imphal, the 6th April, 1955. 
No. H.Cin.4 /55 .-- The followiny Order : received from the Government of India , 
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting , New Delhi -2 is republished for general 
information . 

T. Kipyen , 

Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 
No. N.R.O. 3763-4 , dutel tho 11th Dec. 190 4. 

In pursuince of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions of erch 
of the enactmeots as specified in the First Schedule , the Central Government, with 
the provious approval of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay, herely certifies films 
spocitiei in cəlumn 2 of the Second Schedule to be of the description specified 
against each in columu 5 of the said Second Schedule . 


8 . 


The First Schodule . 
1 . Sub -section (4 ) of coction 12 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (Central 

Act XXXVII of 1952 ) . 
2 . Sub -section ( 3) of section 5 and section 9 of the Bomlay Cinemas (Re 

gulation ) Act, 1953 ( Bombay Act XI of 1953). 
3 . Sub- section ( 4 ) of section 5 of the Bibar Cinomas (Regulation ) Act , 

1954 (Bibar Act XV of 1954 ). 
4 . Sub -section (4 ) of sectiun 5 of the Orissa Cinomas (Regulation ) Act, 

1954 (Orissa Act II of 1954 ) . 
5 . Sub -section (4 ) of section 6 of the Madhya Pradesh Cinemas (Regulation ) 

Act , 1962 (Madhya Pradesh Aot XVII of 1952) . 
6 . buh -section (4 ) of suction 5 of the Hyderabad Cinemas ( llogulation ) Act , 

1952 (Hyderabad Act XLVI of 1952 ) . 
7 . Section 6 of the Rajasthan Cinemas ( Regulation ) Act , 1952 (Rajasthan 

Act XXX of 1952) , 
Sub -section (4 ) of section of the Saurashtra Ciriemus ( Regulation ) Act, 

1953 ( Saurashtra Act XVII of 1933 ). 
9. Section 6 of the Madhya Bharat Cinemas (Regulation ) Act , 1953 (Madhya 
Bharat Act 15 of 1952 ). 

The Second Schodule . 
S. No. Title of the film Name of the Source of supply Whethre a scien 
Producer 

tific film or a film 
intended for cdu 
cational purposes 
or a film dealing 
with 

and 
current events or 

a documentary film 
2 

3 4 

5 
1 . Somewhere in India Messrs Eastern Mo. Goveroment of Documentary film 

vies, Delhi and W.H. 0. India , Films Di 

vision , Bombay 
One Guard Government of India , 

Ditto 

do 
Films Division , 

do 
Bombay 
3 . Buny Hands Ditto 

do 
4 . Folk Dances of India 

do 
5 . Taming the Sutlej 

do 
0 . Portrait of a Police 

do 
7 . men White Manure 

do 


news 


2 . 


. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 27 , 1955 . 


$ . Vo . 


Title of the film 


Name of the Source of supply 

Source of supply Whether a scientifio 
L’roducer 

film or a film in 
tended for educa 
tional purposes or 
a film douling with 
news and current 
Avents or a docu 

mentary film . 
3 4 

5 


2 


LP 


8 . 


9 ) 


9 . 
10 . 
11 . 
12. 
13 . 
] 4 . 
15 . 
16 . 
17 . 


> 


18 . 


19 . 


211 . 


song of tho South Government of India , Government of Documentary 
Filins Division , 

India , films Di 
Bombay 

vision , Bombay 
Modest Homes 

Ditto Ditto 

do 
Bhopal 

do 
People s l articipation 

do 
Our attle Woulih 

do 
Mission of Peace 

do 
Your Contribution 

do 
N.C.C. Marches on 

do 
Vindhya : Indesh 

do 
Two Worids 

Documentary 

Unit 
Government of (Iu 
dia ) for the 

India , 
Films Indian Roirds 
and Division , Triin 
spurt Development As 
sociation Ltd., Bombay . 

do 
Spirit of the Loom Government of India 

Films Division Boni 
bay 

do 
Ruof over the Flead Shiri S. Badami for 

Grivernment of Boni . 
hay 

do 
He d Serise 

Government of India 
Films l )ivision , Bom 
bay 

do 
Flying Sailors Ditto 

do 
Builing from helow 

du 
Delhi- ispital of India Mr8918 , l instorn Mo 
vies , Delhi 

do 
Account on Yuth Piovernment o India , 

Films livision , Bom 
bay 

do 
arjueling Ditto 

do 
Planned Achievement 

do 
Family Planning 

Filmi intended for 

educational - urposes . 
Messi s . Singh Brys ., Delhi 
Ganga 

film 

Document:iry 
Imi ortant people lioierin . Art of India , 

Fil . intended for 
Films Division , Bon bay 

educational purpo.08. 
Syn phony tkie Liitto 

Diicuiventary fim 

do 
Lritters 

d .) 
Realm · Sud 

do 
The aleagic Touch 

Film intended for 
MOS818. Vinay Produc 
Be Prepard 
tions, Poo : 4 

educational purposes 
Golden River The late Informition 

Documentary film 
Films of India (Govern 

mont of Indi:) 
In Defence of Free Government of India 

do 
dom Films division , Bumbay 

Film intended for 

Ditto 
8. O. S ( Save our soils ) 

educational purposes 


21. 
2 !. 
23 . 


. 


24 . 


2 ... 
•: 6 . 
27 . 


28 . 


91 


19 . 


30 . 
31 . 
32, 
33 . 
34 . 


35 . 


36 : 


37 . 


6 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 27 , 1955 . 


8. No. 


Title of the film 


Name of the 
producer 


Source of supply Whether a scientific 

film or a film inten 
ded for educational 
purposes or a film 
dealing with new a 
and current events 

or a documentay film 
4 

5 


1 


. ) 


3 


38 . 


Indian News Review Government of India , 

No. 271 Films Division , Bombay 


Government 

of India , Fi 
Ims Division , 
Bombay 


Film dealing with 
news and current 
events 


39 . 


Ditto 


Ditto 


. 


do 
do 
do 
do 
do 


* 


Indian News Review 

No. 272 

273 
274 
275 
256 
277 
278 
27 9 
280 
281 
282 
293 


40 . 
41. 
42 . 
43 . 
44 . 
45 , 
46 , 
47 . 
48 . 
49 . 
50 . 
51 . 
62 . 
53 . 
54 . 
55 . 


do 


do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 


284 


29 


286 


257 


do 


88 
89 


56 . 


2919 


2 


, 5 


> 


91 


292 


, 


93 
94 


> 


295 


296 


" , 


> 


, 2 


og 


32 


297 
298 
299 
300 
301 
302 
303 
304 
3015 


, 


1 ) 


57 . 
58 . 
59 . 
60 . 
61 . 
62 . 
63 . 
t 4 . 
05 . 
66 . 
67. 
68 . 
69 . 
70 . 
71 . 
72 . 
73 . 
74 . 
75 . 
76 . 
77 . 
78 , 
79 : 
80 . 
81 . 
42 . 
83 . 
84 . 
86 . 
86 . 
87 . 
88 , 


do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 


93 


. 


) , 


306 
307 
808 
309 
310 
311 
312 
313 
314 
315 
316 
317 
318 
319 
320 
921 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 27 , 1955 . 


No. S.R.O. 3607 dated the 18th December , 1.151. 

Order . 
In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions of each of 
the enactmnts specified in the First Schedule to the Order of the Goveroment of India in 
the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, S. R. O. No. 3558 - A dated the 11th 
December 1954 , the Central Government, with the previous approval of the Film 
Advisory Board , Bombay , hereby certifies the film specified in coludin of the 
Schedule hereto annexed to be of the description specificd against it in the corres 
ponding entry of column .j of the Alid Schedule . 

SCHIEDILE . 


8. No. Title of the film 


Name of the 
producer 


Source of Supply Whether a scientific 

film or a film inten 
ded for educational 
purposes or 
dealing witb news 
and current events or 

a documentary film 
4 


de film 


2 


3 


5 


ME 


1 . 


Indian News 
Review No. 322 . 


Govt . of India , 
films Division , 

Bombay . 


Govt . of India , 
films Division , 
Bombay . 


Film dealing with 
news and current 

events. 


( 1 /48 /54- F App / 2 ) . 


No. S.R.O. 3050, Dated the 25th Dec., 1954. 

Order 
Io pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions of each 
of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the Order of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting . S. R. O. No 3558 - A dated 
the 11th December, 1954 , the Central Government, with the previous approval of 
the Film Advisory Board , Bombay , hereby certifies the filcos specified in columon 2 
of the Scheilula hereto annexed to be of the description specified against it in the 
corresponding entry of column of the said Schedule . 

SCHEDULE . 


S. No. Title of the film . 


Name of the 

Producer 


or a 


2 


3 


Source of Supply Whether a scientific 

film intended for 
educational purposes 

film dealing 
with news and Cur 
rent events or a do 

cumentary film . 
4 

5 
Govt . of India , Documentary film . 
Films Division , 

Bombay. 
do 

Film dealing with 

and current 

events , 
( 1 /48/ 54 - F App / 3 ) 


---- 


1 . 


Reunion . 


Govt . of India , 
Films Division 

Bombay. 

do 


2 . 


Indian News 
Review No. 3233 . 


news 


No. S.R.O. 3672 , duted the 30th December , 1954. 

Order. 
In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions of each of 
the enaotments specified in the first Sohedule to the Order of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of information and Broadcasting S. R. O. No. 3358 - A date1 the 11th 


8 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 27 , 1955 . 


December 1964, the ( entral Government, with the provious approval of the Film 
Advisory Board , Bombay , hereby certifies the films specified in column 2 of the 
Schedule hereto annexed to be of the description specified ayainst each in 
corresponding entry of column 5 of the said Schedule . 


the 


SCAM DILE . 


8. No. 


Title of film . 


Nainc of the 

producer . 


source of supply . Whether a scientific 

film or a film inten 
ded for educativnal 
purposes or a film 
dealing with news 
and current events 
or a documentary 

film . 
4 

5 


power 


2 


1 . 


Casc of Mr. Critic . Govt . of India , 

Films Division , 

Bombay . 
Indian News Re 

do 
view No. 324 . 


Govt . of India , 
Films Division , 
Bombay . 

do 


Film intended for 
educational purpo 


ses 


2 , 


Film dealing with 
news and current 
events . 
( 1 / 48 /64- F : App / 4 ) 


No. S.R.O. 109 , dated the 6th Jan. 1.950 . 


CORRIGENDUM . 


In this Ministry s S.R.O. Nu , 3650 dated the 25th December, 1954 published 
in the Gazette of India Extraordinary Part II Section 3 , dated the 25th Dec. , 19.14 , 
in line soven read each for the word it and insort the figure 5 after the word 
"column . 

( 1 /48 /54- F : App /5 ). 


No. S.R.O. 110 dated the oth January , 195.7. 

Order . 
In pursu :ince of clanse ? of the directions issued under the provision of each 
of the enactments secilied in the First Schedule to the Order of the Goveromgiit of 
India in the Ministry of 1 , formation and Broadcasting , S.R.O. No. 3358.A valed 
the 11th December 1954 , the Central Government, with the privious approva of the 
Filin Advisory Board , Pombay . hereby certifies the film specifird in column of 
the Schedule hereto annexed , i all its languae versions, to be of the descrip :1 n 
specified against it in the córresponding entry of column 5 of the said Schedul.. 


SCHEDULE . 


S. No. 


Title of the 

fim . 


None of the 
producer 


Source of supply . 


Whether a sc.outific film 
or a film intended for 
educational purposes or & 
film dealing with Dw8 
and current ven s or a 
documentary . 


1 


2 


3 


4 


1 . 


Indian News 

keview 
No. 325 , 


Govt. of India . 
Film Division , 
Bumbay. 


Govt . of India , 
Films Division , 
Bombay . 


Film dealing with news. 
and current events . 


( 1 /48 /64-F : App /6.). 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 27 , 1955 . 


9 


No, S.R.O. 170., daled the 13th January , 1955 . 


CORRIGENDA . 


In this Ministry s 8.R.V. No. 3650 dated the 25th December 1954 , and S.R.O. 
No. 3672 dated the 30th December, 1954 , publisbed in the Gazette of India 
Extraordinary , Part II- Section 3 , dated the 25th and 30th December 1954 , respec 
tively in line sir after the word Schedule , insert the following words and commas : 

" , in all thoir language versins, 
S.R.O. 171 In this Ministry s S.R.O. No. 3650 dated the 35th December 1951, 
published in the Gazette of India Extraordinary, Part Il- Section 3, dated the 25th 
December, 1954, in 

in the Schedule read " The reunion for the entry in column 2 
against serial No. 1. 

( 1 /45 /54 - F : App / 7 ) . 


N. 8.11.0 . 172 dated the 13th Januntyj, 1955 . 

In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued undur the provisions of each 
of the enuctments specified in tho First Schedule to the Order of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting , S.R.O. No. 3358 - A , dated 
the 11th December 1954, the Central Government with the previous approval 
of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay , hereby directs that the film z spscitind in 
column 2 of the Sccond Schedulo annexed thereto and the film specified in column 2 of 
the Schedule annexed to this Ministry s S.R.O. No. 3607 dated the 18th December 
1954 , shall be decined to have been cortified in all their language versions. 

( 1 /49 /54- F App /3 ). 


No. S.R.O. 173 dated the 13th January , 1955 . 

Order . 
In pursuance of clause of the directions issued under the provision of enck 
of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the Order of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting , S.R.O. No. 3358 - A dated 
the 11th December, 1954 , the Central Government, with the previous approval of 
the Film Advisory Board , Bombay, herehy certifies the films specified in column 
2 of the Schedule hereto annexed , in all their language Versions, to be of the 
description specified against each in the corresponding entry of column 5 of the 
said Sohedule . 

SCHEDULE 


S. No. 


source of supply 


Title of the 

film 


Name of the 

producer 


Whether a scientific film 
or a film intended for educa 
tional purposes or a filo 
dealing with news and cur 
ront events or a documen 


tary film . 


2 


1 


3 


4 


6 


Film dealing with news 
and current events . 


1 . 

Indian News 

noviow 

No. 326 
2. Bogor Conference 


Government of Government of 
India , Film 

India , Filmy 
Division , Bombay Division , Bombay . 
do 

do 


Documentary film 

( 1 /48/ -F : App / 9 ) . . 


10 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 27 , 1955 . 


No, S.R.O. 828 dated the 20th January , 1965 : 

Order . 
In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions of each of 
the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the Order of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting , S. R. (). No. 3358 - A dated the 11th 
December 1954, the Central Government , with the previou 3 approval nf the Film 
Advisory Board , Bomlay , hereby certifies the films specified in column 2 of the 
Sohedulé hercto annexed in all its language versions to be of the description specified 
against each in the corresponding entry of column 5 of tho said Schedule . 

SCHEDULE . 


8. No. Title of the film 


Name of the 
producer 


Source of Supply Whether a scientific 

film or s film inten 
ded for educational 
purposes or a film 
dealivg with news 
and ourrent events or 
a documentary film 


1 


2 


3 


5 


1 . 


Indian News 
Review No. 327 . 


Govt . of India , 
Films Division , 

Bombay . 
do 


Govt . of India , 
Films Division , 

Bombay. 


2. National Library 


Film dealing with 
news and current 

events . 
Documentary film . 
( 1 / 48 /54 - F App / 10 ) . 


do 


No. S.R.O. 


Dated the 27th January , 1955 . 


Io pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions of each 
of tbe enactments specified in the First Schedule to the Order of the Government 
of ladia in the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting , S. R. O. No 3558 - A dated 
the 11th December , 1954 , the Central Government, with the previous approval of 
the Film Advisory Board , Bombay , hereby certifies the film specified in columo 3 
of the Schedule hereto annexed , in all its language versions, to be of the description 
specified against it in the corresponding entry of coluinn 5 of the said Schedulc . 

SCHEDULE .. 
8. Ņo . Title of the film . Name of the Source of Supply Whether a scientific 
Producer. 

of a film intended for 
educational purposes 

filin deuling 
Witbe news and our 
rent events or & do 

cumentary film . 
2 3 4 

5 
1 . 

Indian News Govt . of India , Govt . of India , Film dealing with 
Review No. 328 . Filins Division Films Division , news and current 

Bombay . Bombay , 

events , 
( 1 /48 /51- F App /11) 


or 


1 


my 


Vo . S.R.O. duted the 3rd February , 1955 . 

Ordor 
In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions of each of 
the enactinents as specified in the First Schedule , the , Central Government, with the 
previous approval of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay , hereby certifies the films 
specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule to be of the description specified against 

Hjá column 5 of the said Second Schedule . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 27 , 1953. 


11 


THE FIRST SCHEDU.E . 


3 
. 


1 . Sub.sertion ( 4 ) of section 13 of tho C inematograph lot, 1952 ( Central Act 

XXXVJJ of 1952 ) . 
2 . Sib -section (3 ) of section V and section 3 of the Bombay Cineinas (Regulation ) 

Act , 1953 (Bombay Act VI of 1953 ) . 
Sub - section (4 ) of section 5 if the Biliar 

Biliar Cinemas (Regulation ) Act, 1954 
( Bihar Act XV of 1954 ) 
4. Sub - section (4 ) of section 5 of the Oriss ı Cinenn s (Regulation ) Act , 1954 

( Orissa Act 11 of 1934 ) 
5. Sub -Nection (4 ) of sectiou 5 of the Madhya Pradesh Cinemas ( llegulation ) Act, 

1952 (Madhya l’radesh Act XVII of 1952) 
6. Sub -section (4 ) of section 5 of the Hyderabad Cinomas ( Regulation ) Act ,1952 

(Hyderabad Act XLVI of 1952 ) 
7. Section 6 of the Rajasthan Cinemas (Regulation ) Act , 1952 (Rajasthan Act 

XXX of 1952) 
8. Sub -seotion ( 1) of section 5 of the Saurashtra Cinemas (Regulation ) Act, 

1953 (Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953 ) 
9 . Section ( of the Madhya Bharat Cinemas (Regulation ) Act , 1953 (Madhya 

Bharat Act 15 of 1953) 
10. Sub - section ( 4) of section 5 of the Mysore Cinemas (Regulation ) Act, 1952 

(Mysore Act XXXI of 1952 ) 
Sub -section (4 ) of section 3 of the Pepsu Cinemas (Regulation ) Act, 1951 

( Popsu Act 7 of 1934 ) 
12. Sub - section ( 3 ) of section ; of the 

Assam 

Cinemas (Regulation ) Act, 1958 
(Assam Act XIV of 1953) 
13. Sub -section (1 ) of section 5 of the Punjal) Cinemas ( Regulation ) Act, 19952 

(Punjal) Act XI of 1952) 


11 . 


TIK HICOND SCHIDULI:. 


S. No. 


Source of supply 


l itle of the 
film . 


\ amo of the 
producer. 


Whether a scientific 
film or a film intended 
for educational 

pur 
poses or a film dealing 
with news and current 
events or documen 
tary film . 

5 


2 


3 


1 . 


Indian news 
Review Vo . 
329 . 

Republic day , 1955 


Govt. of India , 
Films Division , 
Bonibay . 

do 


Govt . of India , 
Films Division , 
Bombay . 

do 


Film dealing with 
news and current 
events . 
Documentary film . 


2 . 


No. S.R.O. Juled th 101h lebinary , 1955 . 

Ordar . 
In pursuanco of clause 2 of the directions isgued under the provisions of each 
of the enactments specified in the First Sohedule to the Order of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Information und Broadcasting, S.R.O. No. 331 dated 
the .3rd February 1955 , the Central Government , with the previous approval of the 
Film Advisory Board , Bombay , herely certifies the films specified in column 2 of 
the Schedule hereto annexed , in all their languaxe versions, to be of the description 
specified against each in the corrospunding entry of column 5 of the said Schedule . 


12 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 27 , 1955 . 


SCHEDULI . 


S. No. 


Title of the 

film . 


Source of supply . 


Name of the 

producer. 


Whether a scientific film 
or & film intended for 
educational purposes or a 
film dealing with news 
and current events or a 
documentary film . 

5 


2 


3 


4 


1 . 


Iodian News 

Review 
No. 330 . 


Film dealing with news 
and current events . 


Govt. of India , 
Films Division , 
Bombay . 

do 


Govt. of India , 
Films Division , 
Bombay . 

do 


si 


Better Preeds 


Film intended fo 
educational purposes 


( 1 / 48 /54 - F : App / 14 ) . 


No. S.R.O. dated the 17th February 199.5.7 . 


Order . 


In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions of each 
of the enactments specified in the First Schedul : to the Order of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting , S.R.O. No. 331 ditted the 
3rd February , 1955 , the Central Government , with tho previous approval of the Film 
Advisory Board , Bombay , bereby certifies the films specified in Column 2 of the 
Schedulo hereto annexed , in all their language versions, to be of the description 
specified against each in the corresponding entry of column 5 of the said Schedule . 


SCHEDULE . 


S. No. 


Title of filın . 


Source of supply . 


Name of the 

producer . 


3 


Whether a scientific 
or 

film inten 
ded for educational 
purposes or a film 
dealing with news 
and current events 
or a documentary 
film . 


1 


2 


3 


5 


1 . 


Indian News 
Review No. 331 . 


Govt . of India , 
Films Division , 
Bomhay . 

do 


Govt . of India , 
Films Division , 
Bombay . 

do 


Film dealing with 
news and current 
events. 


2 , 


Vigil on Wheels 


Documentary film . 


( 1 / 48 /54 - F : App / 4 ) 


No. S.R.O. 


dated , the 24th February , 1955. 

Order . 


In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions of each 
of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the Order of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, S. R. O. No. 331 dated 
the & rd Feby . 1965 , the Central Government, with the provious approval of the 
Film Advisory Board , Bombay , hereby certifies the films specified in column 2 of 
the Schedule hereto apnoxed , in all its language versions, to be of the description 
specified against it in the corresponding entry of column 5 of the said Sohodule . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 27 , 1965 . 


13 


SCHEDULE . 


8. No. 


Title of the film 


Source of supply 


Name of the 
producer 


Whether a scientific 
film or a film inten 
ded for educational 
purposes or & film 
dealing with news 
and current events 
or a documentay film 

5 


2 


3 


4 


38 . 


Indian News 
Review No. 332 . 


Government of India , 
Films Division , Bombay 


Government 

of India , Fi 
Ims Division , 
Bombay 


Film dealing with 
news and current 
events 


( 1 / 48 / 54 - F : 

: App / 16 ) 


No. S.B.O. 


Dated the 3rd March , 1965 . 


In pursuance of clause 2 of the direntions issued under the provisions of each 
of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the Order of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting , S. R. () . No 331 dated 
the 3rd Fehrurry , 1955 , the Central Government, with the previous approval of 
the Film Advisory Board , Bombay, hereby certifies tbe film specified in column 2 
of the Schelule hereto annexed , in all its language versions , to be of the description 
specified against it in the corresponding entry of column :) of the said Schedule . 


SCHEDULE . 


8. No. 


Title of the film 


Name of the 
producer 


AL 


Source of Supply Whether a scientific 

film or a film inten . 
ded for educational 
purposes or a film - 
dealiog witb news 
and ourrent events or 

& documentary tilna 
4 


2 


1 


3 


E 


1 . 


Indian News 
Review No. 333 . 


Govt . of India , 
Films Division , 

Bombay . 


Govi . of India , 
Films Division , 

Bombay . 


Film dealing with 
news and current 

events . 
( 1 / 48 /64- F App / 17 ) . 


No. S.R.O. 928 dated the 10th March , 1955 . 


Order . 


In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions of each of 
the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the Order of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Information and Broadoasting, S. R. O. No. S31 dated the 3rd 
February 1956 , the Central Government, with the previous approval of the Film 
Advisory Board , Bombay , hereby certifies the filmit specified in column 3 of tho 
Schedule hereto annexed in all its language vers to be of the description specified 
against oach in the corresponding entry of column of the wild Sobedule . 


2.4 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 27 , 1956 . 


SCHEDULE . 


8. No. Title of the film . 


Name of the 

Producer . 


or 


Source of Supply Whether a scientitio 

or a film intended for 
educational purposes 

film dealing 
with news and cur 
rent events or & do 

cumentary film . 
4 

5 
Govt . of ludis , Film deitling with 
Films Division , nuws and current 
Bombay . 

events , 
( 1 /48 /54 - F App / 18 ) 


1 


2 


3 


1 . 


Indian News 
Review No. 334 . 


Giovt. of India , 
Films Division 

Bombay. 


10. S.R.O. doted the 17th March , 1955 . 

Order . 
ln pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issue ) in ler the provisions of erch 
of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the Order of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting , S.R.O. No. 331 dated 
the 3rd February 1955 , the Central Government, with the proviouz approval of 
the Film Advisory Board , Bombay , hernlıy crtifies the film spocitied in coluinn 
2 of the Schedule horeto anpixed , all its language vursio :19 , to be of the 
description specified against each in the corresponding entry of column 5 of the 
said Sohedule . 

SCHEDULE 


in 


8. No. 


Title of tha 

film 


Name of the Source of supply Whether y scientific film 
producer 

or a lilm intended for educa 
tional purposes 

or a film 
dealing with news and cur 
rent events or a documen 

tary filin . 
3 * 

5 
Government of Government of Film dealing with news 

India , Film Indja , Films and current events . 
Division , Bombay Division , Bumbay . 

( 1/ 48 /-F : App / 19 ) . 


1 


2 


. 


1 . 


Indian News 

Review 
No. 330 . 


NOTIFICATION . 


Dated , the 12th April, 1955 . 
Subject : -- Tax payable to Burma on Pension and Leave Salary paid outside Burma . 

No. T.M./10/55/2.-It is herely notified for tho information and guidance of 
all the treasury aud sub - t resury officers in Assam , Tripura and Manipur that 
according to Section 4 of the Burma Income- tax (amendment) Act , 1953 and the 
latest decision of the Government of Burma any pension exceeding Rs. 3.50 /- p . m . 
and the leave salaries paid outsido Burma will be liabl , to Burma Income-tax and 
Super tax . Necessary instructions regarding the amount of tax recoverable in each 
individual case will be issued separately by this office. Such Tux , when recovered 
aut your treasury should be shown as a distinot item in the account under the head 
" Accounts with the Government of Burma” in secti w . P -Deposits and Advances Part 
HI - Advances not bearing interest . 

$ . K. Bhattacharjee ; 
Assistant Accoppte Officer , 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 27 , 1955 . 


15 


.. 


Order No. 17 of 1955 . 

Imphal, tho 205h April, 1955. 
The Judicial Commissioner bas been pleased to enrol Shri 

Shri Joseph Minattur , 
M. A., L. L , B. of Bharananyamal) , 

Travancore Cochin . 

C / 0 ) Shri 
Nongmsithom Brajabidhu Singh of Keisampat, Imphal as a Legal Practitioner in 
the Court of the Judicial Commissioner and all the Courts subordinate to it in 
Manipur. 

K. B. Singh , 

Registrar, 
Judicial Commissioner s Court, Manipur . 


PART IV 


NOTICE. 

Implial, the 21st April , 1955 . 
It is noticed that applications for grant of Gun licenses are submitted by 
applicants from the Ilill areas , direct to the Deputy Commissioner s Office . In a 
majority of cases thoy have to be referred back to the S. D. O. concerned for re 
porting number of houses in the village , number of guns already held in 

the 
village & whether the person is considered suitable & recomended . In the mean 
while the applicants have either to wait or to return to their villages. This entails 
avoidable expenditure o : the part of the applicants . 
It is notified therefore that in future applications for Gru licenses 

Gro licenses from the 
Hill Areas will not be entertained unless submitted through the 8.9.0.5 concerned . 
S.D.0.8 will forward their reports on the application in the normal manner & will 
not hand over the applications to be applicants. 
This order will take effect from the date of publication in the official Gazette. 

V. S. Sundaram , 
District Magistrate , Mapipur . 


Imphal, the 24th April , 1905 . 
No. 80-87 -HE . Sealed tenders from the registered contractors of the P.W.D. and 
Imphal Town Fund aro invited for the construction of Diesel Power House in the 
Jail compound . 
2 . 

Tonders will be received upt ) 12 L.M. of 2-5-.) ] and will be opened oa the 

same day . 
3 . Tho estimated cost of the work is Rs. 23,685 /- . An earnest inoney deposit 

of Rs. 474 ;- in treasury chalen should accompany along with the tender . 
4 . 

Time allowed for the work is 3 months begiain fiom the date of iss:13 of 

worky order . 
5 . Detail of the work can bc had from the orlice during office hours. 

B. M. Sarma, 

Electrical Engineer , 
Mauipur Hydro Electric Office . 


Gattaat 


অসিনা প্রজা পুমা খংহল্লি , মাদুদি - ইং শােক ১৯৫৪-৫৫ গ লৌ - ইংখােলগ খানা জরিমানা 

13967 
oti C018110 1395 78:77 77 yasifari 
tanto oti 2018102 

Sd !- V. S , Sundaram 

ডিপুটি কমিশনার, মণিপুর । 


w 


ScheduleListofRegistereddealers. 

MANIPUSTATE. 


Remarks. 


Clasangofgoodsentitledtotax-free. 


Address. 


Nameofdealer 


Xatureof 
baziness 
. 


District 


Dateof Registration. 


No. 
d 
Regio 

Heration 
Outifcate 
. 


MaxwellBazar 


Manipur 


27-6-50BalchandRajkumar, 


74 


Wholesale 
&Handloomclothe,Tarn,Hosierygoods,Salt, retaildistributionMatches,Chillies,&Millmadecloths&Silk 

& 
Wrollen 
goodi 
. 


Do. 


Do. 


26-6-50ChhogalallKisturchand. 


75 


Do. 


Hendloomcloths,Silk,Woollencloths,Hosiery goods,Yarn,Chillies,Textilecloths,Foreign cloth&Yarn,Umbrellas,Woollenyarn,Washing Soap,&Soda,Foodstuff,Rice,Salt,Vegetable, Rape&Mostaredseeds&Oil,Betelnut, Menihari,Stationery.Vegetableghee. 


. 


Do. 


77 


27-6-50MenipurAgrarianCo-operative 

SocietyLtd, 


Do. 


Do. 


Cloth&Yarn, 


-- 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 27, 


Do. 


78 


26-6-50|RamaletarIstarlall. 


Do. 


Hosierygoods,Cloths,Alluminiumares,I mbre llas,Bidir,Woollen&Silkcloths,Handloomcloths, Yarn,Tea,Enamels,GlassWares&Stationery. 


Retail distribution 


Do. 


79 


29-6-50ManipurCo-operativeSocieties 

UnionLtd. 


Do. 


26-6-50GokulSinghManikchandSingh. 


ITholesele&Salt,Sogar,Paper,Clothe,Yaro,Seraps,Rice, Retaildistribution 

RetailDal,Salt,Oil,SpicesSoda,Soap,Bidis,Matches, distributionNail,Glass,Alluminiumpots,Tobaccoleaves. 

Pan&Bettle,Sats&Hardwares. 


Do. 


SO 


Do. 


28-6-50ShermallManmall. 


Do. 


81 


Do. 


Wholesale 
&Cloths&Grocery,Handloomcloth,Woollen,Galla, retaildistributionKiranaandYarn, 


1966 . 


29-6-50MohanlallRukmanandChoradia. 


Do. 


Do. 


Bidis&Hanloomcloths, 


82 


Do. 


29-6-58Th.IbungahalSingh&Sons. 


Do. 


Do. 


88 


RetailIronscraps.Motorscrapspipe,Brass,Sngar,Alla distributionminium,Copperscraps,Leadsetc.&Contract. 
Do. 

Drugs&Stationery,Milk,Milkpowder,Oraltide & 
Barley&Surgicalapparatus. 


27-6-50|PadmıMedicalStore, 


Do. 


84 


Do. 


27-6-50|MangalchandMegbraj. 


Do. 


Do. 


85 


Wholesale&Handloomcloths,Motorparts,Yard,Salt,Gala 

butio 
retaildistributionmal 
, 
Brass 
wars 
. 


Nameofdealer. 


Addresa 
, 


DistrictNo.of 
Region 
Dateof 

tration 
Registration 
. 
Certificate 
. 


Nature 
of 
business 
, 


Classue 
ofgoods 
entitledto 
tax 
fee 
. 


Remarks 
. 


Manipur. 


86 


26-6-30 
Gaganiam 
Nemichand 


Maswell 
Bazar 


Retail 
distribution 


Handloom 
cloths 
, 
Yarn 
, 
Chillies 
, 
Gallanal 
, 
Kapas 
Salt 
, 
Cloths 
, 
Biri 
& 
Horierg 
goods 
, 


Do. 


87 


| 
29-8-50 
Minaram 
Prabhudayal 
. 


Do. 


Do. 


Yarn 
, 
Manipur 
han 
! 
loom 
cloths 
, 
cloths 
, 
t mbre 
lla 
, 
2nd 
band 
tubes 
& 
Tyres 
, 


Imphal :-Printed mod published by 


Do. 


88 


29-6-50! 
Ganapat 
Ray 
Murtidbar, 


Do. 


Do. 


89 


26-6-50HazarimalMahadeo 
. 


Do. 


Do. 
Hosiery 
goods 
, 
Ho.sehold 
utensile 
, 
Coconut 
oil 
, 

Yarn 
, 
Alluminium 
pots 
, 
Nails 
aricoco 
, 
Cloths 
, 

Handloom 
cloths 
, 
Woollen 
goods 
. 
Wholesale 
& 
Medicines, 
Salt 
, 
Yaro, 
Handloom 
cloths 
, 
Motor 
retail 
distribution 
tyres 
& 
Tubes 
, 
Battery 
, 
Acid 
, 
Rice 
; 
Padry 
, 
Aita 
, 

Beran 
, 
Pulser 
, 
Sugar 
, 
Cereale 
, 
Oil 
, 
Rape 
seeds 
, 
Cement, 
Gunny 
bages 
, 
Washing 
soap 
; 
Patent 
Medicines 
, 
Baby 
food 
, 
Milk 
pwder 
& 
Oraltin 


Do. 


90 


26-6-50|GangaramSukhdeo 
. 


Do. 


Do. 


Handloom 
cloths 
, 
Mill 
made 
para 
, 
Salt 
& 
Chillies 
, 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , APRIL 27 , 1955 . 


Do. 


91 


26-8-59 
, 
PrabhulalMadanja). 


Do. 


Do. 


Handloom 
cloths 
, 
l arn 
, 
Salt 
, 
Iron 
scraps 
etc. 
and 
metal 
Scraps 
. 


Do. 


62 


27-6-30Amrik 
Singh 
Bacant 
Singh 
, 


Do, 


the Superintendent Government Press O. 210 / 27-4-55 . 


Do. 


93 


27-6-50 

K. 
Bhudbi 
Singb 
, 


Do. 


-- 


Retail 
Handloom 
mill 
made 
cloths 
, 
Hosiery 
goods 
, 
Cut 
distribution 
lery 
, 
Stationery 
goods 
, 
Shoes 
, 
Insury 
goods 
& 

Electric 
torte 
. Contract& retail 
distribution 
Dal 
, 
V. 
ghee 
, 
Onion 
,Jira 
, 
Turmerie 
, 
Tamarind 
, 

Chillies 
, 
Salt 
. 
Wholesale 
& retaillistributionHandloomcloths. 

Retail distribution 
Yarn 
, 
Umbrellas 
, 
Cigarettes 
, 
Biris, 
Match 
, 
Soap 
, 

Enamelwares 
, 
Salt,Musteredoil,K. 
vil 
. 


Do. 


94 


21-8-50 
|Dulichbnd 
Kundermal. 


Do. 


Do. 


98 


29-6-50 
Thangjam 
MoraSingh 
. 


Do 
, 


Do. 


98 


26-6-50 
Beglall 
Seobax 
. 


Do. 


Ꭰ 
o 


3 


Grocery,Oldfyrer 
tubes 
,Ironscraps,Cotton, M. 
oil,Jakri,k. 
oil,Tesleaves,Handloom cloths 
,Yarn,Toilet 
goods&Salt. 


Do. 


99 


29-6-50 


/༦ 


Samungow 
Singh 
. 


SingjamaiBasar 


Do. 


Lamp 
wire 
, 
Textile 
impliments 
, 
Sporting 
goods 
, 
and 
Stationery 

Tobecontinued. 


17 


Manipur 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 7 - E - 3 


Imphal, Thursday , April 28 , 


1955 . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal , the 28th April , 1955 . 
No. J. 12 51. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sul - section ( 1 ) of Secti in 
10 of the Code of Criminal lºrocidura , 1898 ( Act V of 18:58 ) ay extended to the 
State of Manipur by Notification No. F. 12 ( 2 )/ J/ 11 /55 , Government of India , Ministry 
of Home Affairs, dated the 20th April , 1955 , and in sup 18 sssion of all previous 
Notifications in iis respect, th : Chief Commissioner is pleased to direct that the District 
Magistrate of Manipur shall by deamed to be app sinted as thy District Magistrate 
under the said Cody and he shall exercise all the powers of the District Magistrate 
conferred wider the Code . 

A K RAY, 
Cuer SECRETARY TO THE GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR , 


Imphal, the 28th April , 1955 . 
No. D HP183/54 -The fillowing document forwarded by the District Magistrate , 
Maipur is published for general information : 

Sd /- T. Kirgen , 

Secretary (Ilome) to the Govt. of Manipur . 
Where is it has been m de to ap , near to m ; that the P , S. P. mivemont, though 
Oblensibly for thory entablishment of an Aysum bly in the State , has in fact meant 
a prsgramme of sitivity involvin ; acts of violence and muss demonstrations causing 
obslı 1.lion , anmyalco & injury to pairs ins lawfully employed & disturbance to the 
public tra1q uility and what pro sessions , demonstrations & meetings in furtherance 
of the mivument are being plina : a id organd in and around Imphal , it is highly 
Ossential that processions , demonstrations and meetings should babianed for the 
prevention of obstruction , innoyancs and injury to pursons lawfully employed and 
disturbance to the public tranquility . 

Now , therefore , 1, Sri V. S. Sundtram in exercise of the powers Vested in me as 
the District Maistraati , o hrely prohibit under Sec . 144 ( 3 ) Cr . P. C., for a period 
of one month from this date : 

( 1 ) All assemblies and pricessions of five or more persons within a radius 

of 4 miles from the Court of the District Magistrate , Manipur State 

( Linphul ). 
( 2 ) All picketing of shops, residential houses, bazars, business promises, offices 

and schools , roads, bridges and lanes within a radius of 4 miles from 
the af res eid Court of the District Mugis rate and tikinz part in such 

assemblies , procussions or picketing 
( 3 ) Use of a Microphone , 
( 4 ) Shouting of slogans 
( 5 ) Displsy of placurds and 

( 6 ) Carrying of fire arms and lethal weapons. 
This urdur will be in forc : with inmydiate effect . Disobedience of this order 
is punishable under Sec . 188 1.P.C. This order will not however apply to bonafide 
religious and marriage processions and meetin z8 . 

Given under my hand and the Seal of the Court this twenty - eighth day of 
April, 1935 . 

V. S. SUNDARAM , 
District MAGISTRATE , MANIPUR STATE , INPHAL. 


impbel Printed and published by the Superintendent Goverument Press C. 200 /38-4-55 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


मयमा 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 8 


Imphal, Wednosday , May 4 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


1 


Part I. - Appointments , Postings , Transfers, Powers , 

Leave and other personal notices , 
Part II.- Resolutions, Regulations, Orders , Xotifi 

cations, Rules etc. 


l art 11) .-- Orders, Notifications , Rules of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Notices otc . 


3 


3 to 10 


1 to 2 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Thursday 
Thursday 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 30th April, 1957. 
Tour programme of Sri S. Fazl Ali , Chairman , States 

Re-organisation Commission , 
Halt at Calcutta . 

5th Dep . Calcutta 07.30 By Air Service 241. 

5th Arr , Imphal 11.55 
Halt at Imphal. 

6th Dep . luphal 12.05 By Air Service 256 
6th Arr . Agartala 

13.40 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


Friday 
Friday 


PART II 


Imphal, the 20th April , 1955. 
No. Tax /31/53 /51. - 1n exercise of the power conferred upon him by sub -section 
( 2 ) of section 7 of the Assam Sales Tax Act 1947 (Assam Act XVII of 1947) as 
extended to the State of Manipur , the Chief 

of Manipur , the Chief Commissioner is pleased to notify 
his intention to amend , with effect frim 24-4-15 , Schedule III of the said Act by 
adding the following as a new item : 
Description : 

Fluwers, seeds and plants . 


Imphal, the 27th April , 1955 . 
No. R /Fy/3 /53.- The Chief Commissioner is pleased to sanction the de -reserva 
tion of the Charungpat Ithai, a sub -fishery of Charung pat Itup fishery No. 258 
with effect from 1st April, 1956 for irrigation purposes , 


A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


2 


MANIPUP. GAZETTE , MAY 4 , 


1955 . 


Imphal, the 27th April , 1955 . 
No. Tax :31 / 53,49 ... Iu exercise of the power conferred upon him by sub.section 
( 2 ) of section 7 of the Assaru Sales Tax Act 1947 ( Assam Act XVII of 1947 ) 
an extended to the State of Manipur, the Chief Commissioner is pleased to notify 
his intention to amend , with effect from 1-4-52, Scbedule III of the said Act by 
adding the following as new item : 


2 


Description : 


Condition and exception 
subject to which exemption 
has been allowed : 


Goods sold at P.K.I. Canteen , 41h Bn . 

Assam Rifles , Imphal. 
Exeni ption is allowed on condition that the goods 
üre sold to persoanel of the 4th Bn. Assam Rifles 
at prices fixed by the Canteen Stores Department. 


A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


Imphal , the 2nd May , 1955 . 


No. R /87 /50 -I ( A ). - The following Notification No. RSS . 333 / 53/ E6A dated 9th 
April , 1955 issued by the Secretary to the Govt. of Assam , Revenue Settlement 
Dept , Shillong is republished for general information . 

T. Kalachand Singh, · 
Asstt . Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


The undermentioned officers are declared to be proficient in Suryoy and Settle 
ment training : 


1 . 


Shri P. 11. Trivodi, I. A. S. 
2 . Shri Rabindra Nath Boara , E. A. C. 
3 . Suri Jatindra Mohan Hinarika , E. a . C. 
4 . Shri Kuruna kanta Baruah , E. A. C. 
5 . Sbri Bhabesh Chandra Thakuria , E. A. C. 
6 . Shri Hemanta Kumr Majumdar , E. A. C. 
7. Shri H. Ibunyoyaim . Singh , E. A. ( ., Manipur . 


Dated , Shillong , the 20th April , 1955 . 
Subject :-Rent Recoveries . 
Notification No. TM2/ 10 /54 / 3 . It is hereby notified for the infurmation and 
guidance of all the Treasury Officers and Sub-treasury Officers and all Disbursing 
Officers in A saam , Tripura and Manipur that it has been decided by the Comptroller 
and Auditor General of ludia that all rent recoveries made with effect from 1-4-55 
on the advice of the Estate Officer , New Delhi, Estate Managers , Caloutta and 
Bombay and other C. P. W. 1) . Divisional Officers should be credited direct to 
“ XXXIX - Civil Works - Central" by transfer credit . 

(Dy - TN 71 of 55-56 in Bl. TM /2 / 10 /54 at page 1350 ). 


X. C. Nandy , 
Assistant Accounts Officer . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 4 , 1955 . 


3 


PART II 

Imphal, the 2nd May , 1955 . 
No. H.Apptt.31 /51. — The following Resolution received from the Government of 
India , Ministry of Home Affairs, is published for general information . : 

T. Kipgen , 

Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 
New Delhi- 2 , the 30th April , 1955 . 

RESOLUTION . 

No. 15 / 1 /55 -SST . 
In order to secure greater representation of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes in the public services, the maximum age - limit prescribed for appointment to 
a non -Gazetted service or post was increased by five years in the case of candidates 
belonging to theso Castes and Tribes vide Government of India , Ministry of Home 
Affairs Resolution No. 42/ 19 / 51- VGS dated the 25th June, 1952 . It has now been 
decided that this concossion should be extended to appointments to gazetted posts 
in the central Services , The applications of these orders to recruitment to All - India 
Services is separately under consideration . 

2. The above decision will take effect iinmediat: 18 . The Union Public Service 
Commission huve agreed thit where the advertisements issued by them require that 
applications from candidates should reach the Commission on a date falling within 15 
days from the date of this Resolution , the list date for the receipt of applications 
from Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe candidates will be extended by two weeks . 
Other recruiting authorities for posts under the Government of India will also 
take similar action wherever necessary . 

Sd / - G. Swaminathan , 
Joint Secy . to the Govt. of India . 


PART IV 


Imphal, the 20th April , 1953. 
No. I-MD / 3 / 35 / 38. — The followin ; Notification is published for general information . 

S. Gourhari Singh , 

Asstt . Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 
NOTIFICATION . 

No. 1 -JD / 3 55 . 
Applications are invited from Indian citizens for ten ter por.try ( likely to become 
permanent ) posts of 

Assisstant Suryeon , 

lirade Il in the Modicial Department, 
Manipur State. The posts will carry a pay scale of Rs. 100-10-130 ( EB )-6-190 (EB ) 
10-250 por month plus 17.1 % D.A. and free accommo:lation or house rent allowance 
(maximum Rs. 25 /-) in lieu thereof. l rivate practice will be allowed without pre 
judice to duty outsido duty hours : a higher initial pay of Rs. 148 /- P.M. in the 
above scale may be granted in case of Medical Graduates . Applications containing 
the following particulars should reach tlie ( lief Medical Officer , Imphal, on 
before 25th May , 19:16 . Persons appointed will be on probation for one year . Other 
things being equal, preference will be given to candidates knowing one or more of 
the languages spoken in Hanipur. The applications sbould be accompanied by copies 
of diplomas , testimoials etc. A self -addresseil envelope should also be enclosed for 
ucknow leder :ment of the applications. 
Particulars . 

( 1) Vame of applicant. ( 2) l resent address . ( ?) Native District . ( 4 ) Languages 
knowo . 

(0 ) Vativnality . ( 6 ) Age , ( 7 ) Academic & professional qualifications with 
copies of diplomas & dates & names of institutions from which obtained . (8 ) Details 
of previvus professional experience . ( 9 ) Whether married or unmarried and if married , 
number of wives living ( for men only ) . ( 10 ) Vamos of persons to whom reference 


or 


may be marie . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 4 , 1955 . 


NOTICE. 


Imphal, the 26th April , 195 .. 
No. 38 /CS /11/ 54-55 . - It is hereby notified for general information that, pursuant 
to section 

9 of the Co -operative Societies Act II of 1912 , The Malom More 
Weavers Co -operative Production & Sale Society Ltd. has been registered and 
numbered as 38 of 1954-55 dated the 26th April , of the year one thousand nine 
bundred med fifty five Anno Domini . 


Imphal, the 28th April , 1955 
No. 39 /CS / II/54 !55. - 1t is hereby notified for general information thit, pursuant 
to section 0 of the Co - operative Societies Act II of 1912 , The Maram Multipur 
pose Co -operative Society Ltd. has been registered and numbered as 39 of 1934-35 
dated the 28th April, of the year one thousand nine hundred and fifty five Anno 
Domini , 

K. G. Singh , 

Assistant Registrar, 
Co-operative Societies , Manipur. 


аге 


TENDER NOTICE No. 4 dated the 22nd April , 1955 . 
Separate sealed tenders superscribed as " Tinder for 
invited for the exclusivo right to extract and trade in Cane from Manipur Stato 
Forests and will be rec. ived by the undersigued upto 2 1. M. on the 24th May , 
1965 . The period of contract is commencing froin 1st June , 1955 ending on 33190 
Marcb , 1957. 

Each tenderer must deposit an earnest muny of Rs. 50 /- (Rupees fiſty ) only 
either in the Imphal Treasury or Silchar Treasury which will be refunded in case 
of unsuccessfu ! tenders and will be converted into caurion money in case of success 
ful tenders . The copy of the Trea - ury Chalan should be enclosed in the tender 
failing which the tender should be rejected . Each tender should state the lump sum 
monopoly fee which he is prepared to pay for this right for the above period . 

In addition to the monopoly fee , royalty on canos actually extracted should 
be paid according to the Schedule rates fixed by the Assam Forest Department. Suo 

tenderers should execute an agroement within 10 days of the receipt of 
information to that effect and shall pay monopoly fee at the time of signing the 
lease failing which the tender shall be treated as cancelled and earnest inoney deposited 
will be forfeited to the State . 

The Cane Mabal of the State is divided int :) three separate Mahals as follows 
and each one should be tondered for separately . 

(Mahal No. 1.) 
1 . Area comprising Blocks I(a ) and (b ) , II , XI, XII, XIII in the drainage 
of Jiri, Makru and Borak . 

(Mahal No. II.) 
Area comprising Blocks III, VIII, IX and X in the drainage of Borak , 
Irang and Tuijang . 

(Mahal No. III.) 
Area comprising Blocks IV , V , VI and VII in the drainage of Borak and Tuivai. 

The undersigned is not bound to accept the highest tender and muy reject. 
apy tonder without assigning any reasons. 

R. K. Bijoichandra Singh , 

Forest Officer, Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JAY 4 , 196.7 . 


5 


7 . 


. 


Imphal, the 23rd April, 1935 . 
No. 1181 / D.C. - The following List of Jurrors and Assessors for the Sixth Session 
is published for general information : 

L. Thayoi Singh , 

Supdt., Deputy Commissioner s Ollice . 
SIX SESSIONS ( 1955-56 ). 
List of Jurrors & Assessors for thy Sixth Session . 

VALLEY SECTION : 
1 . Shri Aribam Parikhit Sarmıh of Bramhapur Nababam , Retd l andit Nahabam Tol. 
2 . 

Aritam Sibadiitta Sarnal of Brimhapur Nahabaw --Business. 
3 . 

Angom Leiren Sin ; h of K irau Bitr 1 - Business . 
4 , 

Akijam Blubon Singh of Thoubel Wangmat iba villag , Teacher. 
5 . 

Abujan Yaimit singl of Suynu village - Business . 
6 . 

Ayekpam Anjo Siugh of Yaiskul Hiruny hanba Loikai, Retd . Peskar of Judicial 
Darlar. 
Chingangbam kalachand Singh , Shastri , B.A. of Sa golvand - Teacher, Joba 

st ;ne II . E. School. 
8 . 

Chabugbam Bapuchan Singh , Bislenpur - Teacher, Bishenpur M.E. School. 
9 . 

Chinam Brojeshwar Singlı ot Yairipok - Business , 
10 , 

Heikrujım Sabukauta Singh of Singjamei Chirum Leikai, Teacher Johnstone 

11. E. School , 
11 . 

Hemamu Nilamani Singh of Moirang village - Business. 
12 . 

Khuraijam Budha ssingh , B.A. of Konyha Bazar, Secretary , Manipur State 

Tian - port. 
13. 

kioijam Ketuki Singh of Thinuing i village - Teacher, Thinungei L.P. School. 
14 . 

Kiwairakpam Ibomcha Singh of Nyaikhong village Teacher, Ngaikhong L.P. 

School. 
15 . 

Kshetri dmu Singh of Mayany linphal, Sub -Post Master. 
16 . ,; Kunsam Gulap Singh of Charangpat village, Teacher, Thoubal High School. 
17 . 

Lair kyengbam Manibar Singh of La rikyengbum Leikui, Master J.H. School. 
Lourmbam Parijat Singlı of Bishenpur village , Hd. Master Bishenpur M.E. 

School. 
19 . 

Laishraru Girimohon Singh of Nambol Awang Leikai, Teacher Nambol High 

Scliol. 
20) . 

Laisram Tonsana Singh of Mayang Imphal, Business . 
21 . 

Langpoklak phm Chouyaima Siogh of Thoubal Wangmataba , Business. 
22 . 

Md . Quazi Walli Ullah , B.A. of Maxwell Bazar -- Business . 
23 . 

Maniruddin Choudhury of Kherguo , Clerk , Secretariat . 
24 . 

Maibam Kajani Singh , Retd . Distı ict Registrur , of Moirangkhom . 
25 . 

Msimum Madhımaugol Singh Ex - M . L. A. of Nambol Khajiri. 
26 . 

Mutum Ainutombi Singh of Oinam Basti Business. 
27 , 

Mlv . Asrab Hi Mia of Haoreibi Basti, 
28 . 

Mutum Kulachandrit Singh or Pallel Basti , 
Ningthoujam Kulabidhu Singh of Thoubal, Teacher, Tamphasana Girls High 
School, ( The gentleman is excluded from being an Assessor for the current 

Session vide Reso . No. 3 of 18-4-53 ). 
30 . 

Ningthoujaw Tomchou Singh of Konjak , Business. 
31 . 

Oinam Thambou Singh of Hiyanglam , Cultivator. 
32 . Oinaw Nawang Singh of Sekmaijia , 
33 . 

Pukbrambam Gourmani Sinyh of Sagolband , Retd . 8. P. Court Member . 
34 , 

Pebam Angou Sivgh of Bisheppur, 1. M. College Student. 
35 , 

Pukhrambam Tomchou Singh Kundabing.Khullen , Business . 


9 


18 . 


29 . 


6 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 4 , 1955 . 


36 . 


37 . 


38 . 


39 . 


De 


40 . 
41. 


42. 
43 . 
44 . 
45 . 
46 . 


47 . 


48 . 


49 . 
50 . 
51. 


2 ) 


2 . 
3 . 
4 
5 . 


6 . 


R. K. Khutasana Singh of Ningthoukhong village- Business . 
Saujem ham Nodiachand Singh Retd . Darbar Member of Segalımbi Takhel 
lambum Leikai. 

Senjum Borajao Singh of Svijany Basti, Cultivator . 
Shri Sougaijam Gourahari Singh B. A. of Miranykhom Hd. Master Tombisana 

High Schiol. 
Senjum Ilungohal Singh of Walengbarn Leikai, Business . 
Sirmbain Krishna Singh of Wangjing villayr , Teacher, Wangjing M. E. 
School. 
To kchom Puskor Singh Retd . Asst. 1o P. M. %. 1). ( IIill) of Moirangkhom . 
Thuidingjarn Mangoljao Singh of Khurai Thoidin zjim Lyikai, Business. 
Thokcliom Augouba Singh of singjainci Thokchionn Leikai, 
Thoud.im Keraui Singh of Thoubal Basti , 
Thokchom Tolonjao Singh of lleirok Khudou Cultivator. 
Trungnaid Purno Singh of Kakching Khunou , 
Waikhum Mani Singh of Thoubal Bazar. 
Wangjam Khomdon Singh of Khekman Busti , 
Walengbilin Tathot Singh of Waugoi Basti, Business . 
Yumnam Yaima Singh of Bisbenpur. D. M. College Student . 

HILL SECTION . 
Mr. Ashanang of Tangkhul lIundong . 

Bising of Charoichaktonglong , Cultivator. 

Kaikhouna of New Churachandpur. 
Ch. Ngani of Tungam villaye , 
Chepu Ex - Lainbu of Sungjan Pakany -Cultivator. 
Chong.. Pistor of Pholpui. 
Demklwhen IIcokip of Sanaching , Cultivator. 
Damgou of Saikhulphai. 
juma ketd . Compounder of Reugkhai village . 
G. II. Maya Es- ( ircle Meub :r of Nunghar viilago . 
llolpa Mate of Tengnoupal, Cultivator , 
Ilabuling of Sikibung 
llaorei of Ukhru !. 
Hamunung Ex -Clerk of Tamenglong , Secretary, Manipur Zoleingrong Union 
Cultivator , 
IL: ngin of Phaibok Mulian . 
Hl. Nakit , H 1. Muster Govt . M. E. School New Churachandpur of Lower 
Limka village . 
K. Kashipri of Tadabi -Cultivator . 
K. Louli of Punanamei, Cultivator . 
Kamhong langan ; of kom am , Cultivator. 
kahulluns alias David of Khngjron cultivator . 
Khamthang Kaiphundai. 
Kanovela . Chief of Aukot . 
Lulseh Kipgan of Lamb : line Retd . ( . 0 . 
Lung hopao Chongini of Jang noi, Cultivator , 
Loenpum Gaugte of Chenkonpany , Petition writer of Churachandpur S. D. 
0. s Office , 
Mono Jonsany of Live Changniny , Cultivator . 
Moruny Maring of Khudei Khuilen , 
Motha Monsang of Liva Khullen , Cultivator. 
Madam Khullakpa of Chingjaroi. 
Ngamkholum Haokip of Hominom . 


7 . 


8 . 


9 . 


10 . 
11 . 
12 . 
13 . 
14 . 


>> 


15 . 
16 . 


17 . 


18 . 


19 . 
20 . 
21 . 
22 . 
23 . 
24 . 
25 . 


26 . 
27 . 
28 , 
29 . 
30 . 


. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 4 , 1955 . 


7 


31 . 
32 , 
33 , 
34 . 
35 . 
36 . 
37 . 
38 . 
3 . 
40 . 


4 ) . 


42. 
43 . 


. 


> 


44 . 
45 . 
10 . 
47 . 


Mgamkhonih .of Silen . 
Ningmayang Mantri of Chailang . 

Ngamlakthuynny of Sanynao Param Cultivator . 
Mr. Otkhosei Haokip of Kung pokpi, Cultivator . 

Paolen of Saitu , 
Palipu of Chungnam . 
Ruisung, E. C.B.N. (if Maram Khullen . 
Sonklionei of Makukching - Cultivator . 
Seilut Singshon of Yaingan Pukpi. 
Sian -Zalan Waiphui, Chief of Saipum . 
S. Suphei of Landing . 
Shangrcıyom of Tolloi Village --Cultivator . 
Silakliow of Kadi - Cultivator . 
Shor Bahadur Ale of Irang Got Part II- Cultivator . 
Shoikholam of songkony . 
Thumthung Anal of rhandel - Cultivator . 
Thampan of ( hiki Kanglung - Cultivator . 
Thongzakham iungtz , Chief of Lailooy Lamjapai. 
Tualsin Paite . Validereur , llındship Coy . 
Tela Kilong of Sembangjal a p Maxwel Bazar . 
Tomba Kabui of Kok udang . 
Thishan Lujihim , Ex. M.L.A., Ukhrul . 
Thang khothang Hirokip , Chief of Chasat. 
Thoma Chief of l atpuimui . 
Thanglora , B..1 .,H.Master , Junior H. E. School of Pherjawl. 
Thansejr, Chi.f of Kawnpui. 
Thingchunguunga of Saikawt. 
Vumkhum Puite of Upper Lauka -- Petition writer , 3.D.O. Churachandpır. 
Vumtong Chingsanglak pa of Maokot Village. 
Vumjapao of Sonpram - l ultivator. 
Wanneirens Lenthang of Aimol. 
Zirnino of Ubrul. 
Zindi- 

bw of Lawlala - Cultivator. 


48 . 
49 . 


50 . 


51 . 
52. 


53 . 


54 . 
55 . 
56 . 
57 . 
58 . 
59 . 
60 . 
lil . 
62. 
63. 


. 


10 


TOUR PROGRAMME OF MOBILE DISPENSARY OF EASTERN HILL , RANGE : 

FOR THE MONTH OF MAY , 1955 . 
9.5.55 .... Imphal to Sarei. 

Miles 

38 
10.5.55 Sarei to Chandil . 

8 
11.5.55 Chandil to Beru kihun - nou . 

6 
12.5.55 

Beru khun -ngu tr . Cheppikangbung . 
13.5.55 

11 1lt 
14.5.55 
i 5.5.55 Cheppikangbung to Gelnyai. 

8 
16.5.:35 Geln Lai Lọ Thingkangphai . 

5 
17.5.55 Thingkangphai to Soy- yol. 

6 
18.5,5 ; Song -gul to Tuining . 

5 
19.5.5 ., 

Halt . 
20.5.55 

Tuining to Khopiluny . 
21.5.55 

Halt . 
22.5.55 Khopibung to Imphal. 

48 


> > 


. 


... 


Nanda Babu . 
Offy . Chief Medical Officer , Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE, MAY 4 , 1955 . 


NOTICE . 


Imphal, the 27th April , ! 955. 
No. J/54-60 / 1-2 /LA / 55.- Applications, addr- ased to the Inspector of Schools , 
Manipur , stating Full name, l ather s Name, Full Address , No. of wive s living ( in case 
of married candidates ) , age and previous experience if any , for the post of a Daftry 
of Johnstone High School, Imphal at the pay scale of Rs . 22-1-24 - p.m . plus usual 
D.A., will be received by the uuder igned un or before the 8th May , 1955 during 
office hours . 

H. N. Singh , 

ilead blaster, 
Juhostone High Schoul, Imphal 


২ । 


৪ । 


নােটিশ নং ৩ । 

তাং ১৮। ৪। ৫৫ ইং । 
১। অসিনা মরম ওইদুনা প্রজা পুষমক্তা খংহঞ্চুরি । মরমদি –মধাদা ইরিবা ফোরেষ্ট রেভিনু ষ্টেশন পুম্নমক 
অসিগী মাশুল সৌনবগী এজেন্টসিপ ( Agentship ) অসিগী থবক অসি চহি অমগীদমক হায়বদি অং ১৬৫৫ ইংদগী 
তাং ৩১৫৫৬ ইং ফাওবা তেবিনবা ফোরেষ্ট অফিস তাং ১২৫৫ ই মে ঘাগী শগােলশেল মুমিৎকী অয়ক 
পুং ১২ তাবদা করিগুম্বা টেণ্ডারা য়োনখিদ্ৰবদি নিলাম তৌছুনা মােনগনি । 

ধবক অসি তৌবিনিংবা মীশিংনা তাং ১১৫৫৫ ইংগী নুংখিল পুং ২ তাবা ফাওবা নগা মুমিৎ অসিগী 
মমাংদা রেভিনু ষ্টেশন পুদিংগী তােঙাল তােঙাল চাজুম নম্বা টেণ্ডার পিব আগনি । 

টেণ্ডাৰ পিবিরিবা মী খুদিমা টেণ্ডার খুদিংমকী লুপা ৫০, ( লুপ )ৈ আনেষ্ট মনি ( earnest 
money ) ওইনা ইস্ফাল ট্রেজরিদা থষিগদবনি অমসুং চালান কপি অমা টেণ্ডারগা লােইননা পিবিগদবনি । 

চালান 
অসি ওদবা টেণ্ডার অমতা লৌজবােই । ফাওবা টেণ্ডারগীদি আরনেই মনি অদু হন্দোকচগনি । অফাওবা টেণ্ডারগদি 
সিকুরিটি ( Security ) গ শরুক অমা ওইনা লৌবসু যাই । 

টেণ্ডারারনা মহাক্কী টেণ্ডার অদু য়ারে হায় সুমিত্তগী চয়ােন অমগী মনুংদা পাটা সহি তৌবির পাটাগী 
মতুংইন্না থবক তৌবিগদবনি । পাটা সহি তৌবা সুমিত্তা পা ১০ দগী লুপা ৫০০, ফাওবা পিবা রেভি ষ্টেসনগনা 
লুপা ৫০, (আখৈ) অমসুং লুপ ৫০০ , দগী হেনবনা সুপা ১০০ ( চামা ) ট্রেজরি চালান ওইনা জামিন ( Security) 
থগিদবনি । জামিন অসি পাঠাগী মতম ললাইগা শেলােই যাওদনা হলোকচগনি । পাটাদারনা করিগুধা সরকার 
অতােনা শেল লৈরবদি জামিন অসিদগী কক্ৰগা সরকারগী অতােন শেল অদু উশল তৌগনি , করি জামিন্দা 
তৈরি শেলন । অতােন অদু কুপখপা শুদ্ৰবদি লৌ ইঙ্খেল খাজনা তােলগা লৌখৎনা নিয়ম মতুংইল্লা সরকারগী 
শেন্দোল উশল তৌগনি । 

শ্বাইদগী শেল অহেন নব কনাগুম্বা অমগী টেণ্ডার লেবগী ক্ষমতা শ্রীযুক্ত ফোরেষ্ট আফিসারগীনি 

টেণ্ডারদা পিরিবা মমল অদুনা মতিক চাদে খল্লবদি রেভি ষ্টেশনশিং অসি তারিখ ১২৫৫৫ ইংলা ফোরেষ্ট 
অফিস নিলাম তৌদুনা মােনগনি । 
সুপা ৫০০ , ( চামঙ ) দগী হেনা রেভি ষ্টেসনগীদি কিস্তি মরিয়া থিবা য়াগনি । 

অসিৎপা শেলগ ভঙ্খাই অমা 
য়ােন সুমিতা অহানবা কিস্তি ওইনা থিরগা লেমহোবা অদুনা চপ মান্ননা কিস্তি ৩ লা লােইনা থিগদবনি । নুপা ৫০০ 
( চামা ) অমসুং অদুদগী তাবা মমলদি মােন সুমিত্ত শুনা থিবিগদবনি । 

নিলামদ । অমসুং টেণ্ডারদা শিৎপা শেলগী মথা অনৌবা সরকারগী নিয়ম মতুংইন্না শেল টেক্স (sale tax ) নুপা ১, 
দা পৈশা ২ ( অনি) গী হিংদা অমুক পিগদবনি । 

অকুপ্পা মনােল ফোরেষ্ট অফিস হবিরবা য়াগনি । 


মােনগদবা রেভি ষ্টেশনগী মমিং 


( ক ) 

ইনােইশে রেভি ষ্টেশন । 
(খ ) হৈনােক অমসুং শব্দুংফম সৰ রেভি ষ্টেশন । 
( গ ) লাংঙাথেল রেতি ষ্টেশন । 

নকােল 


আর- কে , বিজয়চন্দ্ৰ সিংহ , 
ফোনে অফিসার, মনির । 


Schedule-ListofRegistereddealers. 


MANIPURSTATE, 


Nameofdealer 


Adress. 


(lesofquousentitledtotax-free, 


Remarks, 


Nature(f 
housiness, 


Deteof Registration. 


No. 
of 
Regi 

stration Certifcate. 


District. 


Manipur100 


29-6-50AkoijamBabudhanSingh. 


SingjameiBazar 


Retail distribution 


ClothsShirting 
&Coatingcltl 
,Silk,Embroi 
deries 
& 
Hanilliom 
cloths, 


SadarBazar 


29-6-50iCh.H.Pharınary(1940). 


Do. 


102 


Do. 


- 


Do. 


Do. 


29-6-50:Th.PriyakumarSingh&Bros. 


SingjameiBazar 


108 


Drugs,Ovaltio,Horlicks,Nan&0 
:her,Milk 
fouil 
, 
H 
.: 
water 
bag s 
, 
Ruhler 
Enema 
, 
Syringe 
& 
other 
ruller 
gods 
, 
Surgical 
iostruments 
, 
Toilet 
preparation 
, 
Salt 
, 
Cotton 
, 
yarn 
,Bilis 
, 
Cigarettes 
, 
Paper 
, 
Soda, SoapCondensedmilk, l ap?r,Siationery,Horlicks,Cuudenseimilk, Washings 
: 
ap,Waling 
Scda 
, 
Wire,nails 
,Dry Batteryspices, 
Sewingthread,Biris, 
C.garettes, Matches,Tuiletsoar,M.vil,K,oil,Patent 
Medicines 
. 


Do. 


29-6-30/ManipurTradingSociety. 


Do. 


104 


Do. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 4 , 1965 . 


-- 


Do. 


Do 


29-6-30H.ManiSingh, 


Do. 


106 


Sill 
, 
Woollen 
grods 
, 
Cotton 
cloths 
, 
Hosierygooils. 


Do 
, 


Do. 


29-6-50ChLabanyaSingh&Sons, 


107 


Do. 


Cotton,Dal,V. 
ghee,&M.oil, 
Biris, 
Staticnery 
, Cigarettes&Son 


Do. 


Da 
. 


29-6-50SuibamKulachandraSingh 


108 


Do. 


Stationery,Ontlery,Ganjies,Rubbershoes,um. brella, 
Handloomgoods,Textileimplements. 


-- 


Do. 


109 


29-6-50K.MeghoSingh&O.Khunjao 

Singh 
, 


T. 


llo 
. 


Stationery,Spices,Dal,Bidis,Cigaretles,Matches, Soals,Sua,Glasswares,Tea,Gum,M.oil, K.oil&Salt. 


Do. 


29-6-50 N.MuktaSingh, 


De. 


111 


Do. 


Cigarettes,Biris:Wire,nails,Bolt,Nuts.Bat telycells,Sola,soap,seringthread,Condensed milk,M.oil&V,Ghee. 


Do. 


Do. 


Cigarettes,Suar,GlassandBiris. 


Do. 


112 


29-8-50S,MomonSingh. 29-6-50S.GouramaniSingh.&H.Tombi 

Singh 
. 


Do 
, 


115 


Do. 


Du 
, 


Clothscnly 
. 


Nameofdealer, 


Address 
, 


D. 
NO 
H 
Region 
Date 
of 

tration Registration. 
Certificate 
. 


Nature 
of 
business 
, 


Claseerofgorde 
entitled 
to 
taxfee, 


Remarks 
, 


Manipur.116 


29-6-50 
Karam 
Nongal 
& 
Potali 
Singh 
. 


Singjam:iBaxar 


Retail distribution 


Salt 
,Stationery 
goods 
,Cigarettes,Matches,and 
Bidis 
, 


Do. 


117 


29-6-50 
| 
Mani 
Duv 
. 


Do. 


Do. 


Handloon 
& 
Mill 
made 
cloths 
, 


Do. 


118 


29-6-30 
i 
Th 
. 
Nilachani 
Singh 
. 


Do. 


Do 
, 


Stationery 
& 
Cutlery 
. 


Do. 


119 


29-6-50 
Ch 
, 
Krisnachandra 
Singh 
, 


Do. 


Do. 


Cloth 
, 
llanilloem 
, 
Ganjee, 
I mbrella 
, 


Do. 


120 


29-6-50 
Thoudam 
Leiren 
Singh 
. 


Do. 


Do 
, 


Stationery 
,Cutlery,RosMaram. 


Do. 


121 


29-6-50 
| 
Y. 
Tombi 
Singh 
. 


Do. 


Do. 


Stationery 
& 
Glass 
ware. 


Do. 


122 


29-6-50 
: 
Soram 
Chandrahas 
Singh 
. 


Dc 
. 


Do 
, 


Cloth, 
Cigarettes,Bidis. 


Do. 


123 


Do. 


Do. 


Imobel Printed and published by the Superintendent Gerrak Prev O. 80576-555 . 


29-6-50 
i 
Th 
. 
Roton 
Singh 
& 
Chaoyaima 
. 

Siogh. 


Stationery 
, 
Cutlery 
, 
Umbrella 
, 
Sam 
, 
Dying 
, 
Colour 
etc. 


Do. 


125 


29-6-50 
H 
, 
Angou 
Singh 
, 


Do. 


Do. 


Shoe 
, 
I mlırells 
, 
Testile 
goods 
, 
Glass 
Fare 
, 
Sta 
. tioneryminds, 
Implements 
. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 4 , 1955 . 


Do. 


126 


29-6-50 
| 
K. 
Khoiton 
& 
Udhob 
Singh 
. 


Do. 


Do. 


Food 
stuff 
, 
S. 
ap 
, 
Tea 
, 
Salt 
, 
M. 
oil 
, 
Cotton 
, 
Betal nutCigarettes,Bidis 
etc. 


Do. 


127 


29-6-50 
M 
/ 
S 
H. 
Mohon 
Singh 
& 
Dhwaja 

Singh. 


Do. 


Do. 


Silk 
, 
roollen 
gonds 
and 
Cottou 
cloths 
, 
Thread 
, 
! 
Realymadeshirt, 
&l mbrella 
, 


Do. 


128 


29-6-50 
L. 
Nityai 
Singh 
& 
Bros. 


Do. 


Do. 


Fancy 
goods 
& 
Statiunery. 


Do. 


129 


29-6-50 
Th 
. 
ChandrajitSingh 
and 

L. 
Lashman 
Singh 


Do. 


Dn 
. 


Do. 


131 


29-6-50 
N. 
Jadu 
Singh 
, 


Do. 


Do. 


Bangles, 
Ink, 
Pencils 
, 
Manihari 
goods, 
Cigarett 
Is 
. 
Biris, 
Matches, 
Suap, 
Wire 
nail, 
Dal, 
Mustered 
oil 
, 
Cardle 
, 
Vegetable 
ghee 
, 
Kerosene oil 
,Conile.ised 
mulk 
, 
Battery 
cell, 
Bi 
: 
cuit 
, 
Saio 
etc. 


ir 


-- 


Do. 


132 


29-6-50 
MedicoScientificstore& 
works. 


Do. 


Do 
, 


Melicine,Mejicin 
Sundries, 
Instrumenis,Medi cinefrids. 


Tobecontioned. 


Manipur 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 9 - E - 4 


Imphal, Saturday , May 7 , 1958 . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 
Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

IMPHAL , CHE 711 May , 1955 . 
No. R / 13 / 55.- The Chief Commissioner is pleased to direct that during the 
absence of the Deputy Commissioner and District Magistrate from headquarters the 
Addl. Deputy Comissioner and Addl. District Magistrate will attend tij the duties 
usually performed by the Deputy Commissioner and District Magistrate and exercise 
all his powers . 

Iinpbal, the 7th May , 1955 . 
No. J / 14 /55 ( A )-In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub -section (2 ) of Section 
10 and Section 39 of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898 (Act 7 of 1898 ) A8 
extended to the State of Manipur by Notification No: F.12 ( 2 )/ J /11/ 5 , dated 26-4-55 , 
Government of India , Ministry of Home Affairs and in supercession of previous 
Notification in this respect. the Chief Commissioner is pleased to direct that Shri 
R. C. Choudhury shall be deered to be appointed as the Additional District Magistrate 
of Manipur under the said Code and shall also be deemed to have all the powers 
of the District Magistrale conferred mder the Code . 

Imphal, the 7th May, 1955. 
No. J/ 14 /55 ( B ) - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 12 and 39 of the 
Code of ( riminal Procedure , ; 898 ( Act V of 1898 ) as extended to the State of 
Manipur by Notification No. 412 ( 2)/ J / 11 /55 

N12 (2 )/ J /11/65 dated 26-4-56 of the Government of 
India , Ministry of Home Affairs , the Chief Commissioner is pleased to invest Shri 
Ksh . Gokulchand Singh , Sub- Deputy Collector . Thoubal and Shri Kh. Brajamohon 
diugh , sub .Deputy Collector, Bishenpur with the powers of a Magistrate Second Class 
within the jurisdiction of the State of Manipur . 

This order shall come into effect from the date of publication in the Manipur 
State Gazette . 

Imphal, the 7th May , 1955 . 
No. J / 14 /55.- In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 12 and 39 of the Code 
of Criminal Procedure, 1898 ( Act V of 1898 ) as extended to the State of Manipur 
by Notification No. F.12 ( 2)/ J / \ / 55 dated 26-4-56 of the Govt. of India , Ministry of 
Home Affairs and in supercession of all previous Notifications on the subject, the Chief 
Commissioner is pleased to direct that the Magistratos in column 1 of the following 
table shall while exercising the functions as Magistrates be deemed to be appointed 
as such Magistratos under the said Code and shall continue to exercise their respective 
powers mentioned in column 2 of the table as if conferred under the above Code. 
Name and Designation of the Magistrate. 

Power exercised by them . 

2 
1 . Shri T. C. Tiankham , E.A.C. 

Magistrate , 1st Class , 
2 . Basiruddin Ahmed E.A.C. 

-do 
3 . Khupkholet Kipgen , E.A.C. 

do 
4 . 

-do 
H. Ibungoyaima Singh , E.A.C. 
3 . R. C. Deb Chowdhury , E.A.C. 

do 
6 . 

do 
Th . Birahari Singh , E.A.C. 
7 . 

-do 
0. Niladhwaju Singh , E.A.C. 
8 . Lamkhothang Kipgen , 8.D.C. 

-do 

-do 
9 . 

M. Nahakumar Singh , 8.D.C. 

R.K. Birendra Singh , S.D.C. 
10 . 

-do 
11 . W. Gourachandra Singh , 8.D.C. 

Magistrate , 2nd Clasa 

A. K. Ray 
CHIEF SECRETARY TO THD Govt. Or MAXIPOR , 

Govr. 
Printed and published by the Saperintendent Government Press C. 2007.5-55 . 


1 


Manipur 


Gazette 


नयमन 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 10 


Imphal, Wednesday , May 11 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


1 to 2 


Part 1.-- Appointments , Postings , Transiers , Powers , 

Leave and other personal notices , 
Part II.--Resolutionn , Regulations, Orders , Notifi 

cations, Rules etc. 


Part III.-- Orders, Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV.- Advertisements and Notices etc. 


Wil 
8 to 11 


2 to 7 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Inphal, the 3rd May, 195.). 
No. R / 68 /51/ 129.- In exercise of the power conferred by Section 137 of the 
Aasam Lunu and Revenue Regulation , 1886 as extended to Manipur, the Chief 
Commissioner is pleased to invest Shri M. Radheshyam Singh , S.D.C. with all the 
powers of a Deputy Commissioner under 

Deputy Commissioner under Section 70 and 74 ( 1) of the Regulation 
from the 12th of October, 1953 till further order:. 


Imphal, the 3rd May , 1955. 
No. R /68 /51/130. - In exorcise of the power conferred by Section 137 of the 
Assam Land and Revenue Regulation 1886 as extended to Manipur and in continua 
tion of this Secretariat Order No. R168/51/53 dated 22-7-52 , the Chief Commissioner 
is pleased to invest the following Sub -Deputy Collectors with all the powers of a 
Deputy Commissioner under Section 70 of the Regulation for the periods indicated 
against their names. 

NAMES OF SUB - DEPUTY COLLECTORS . 
1 . Shri Th . Birahari Singh , S.D.C. from 1-4-53 to 2-11-63 , & from 26-10-83 

till further orders . 
2 . Pashiruddin Ahmed , S.D.C. from 1-4-53 to 16-9-56. 
3 . R. K. Birendra Singh , S.D.C. from 15-9.54 to 15-12-54 . 

W. Courachandra Singh , 8.D.C. from 31-70-58 until further orders. 
5 . Ksh . Gokulchand Singh , S.D.C. from 1-4-53 upto 

do 
6 . Kh. Brajamohan Singh , Temporary S.D.C. from 1-4-53 upto do 
7 . M. Nabakumar Singh , S.D.C. from 1-4-63 upto 

do 


A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipar . 


MANIPUP. GAZETTE, MAY 11 , 1966 . 


Imphal, the 4th May , 19.55 . 
No. F -DPC /40 /53/99. - In continuation of this Secretariat Order No. DPC /40 /53/83 
dated 13-10-54 

the Chief Commissioner is pleased to sanction continuance of the 
temporary post of the Assistant Secretary to the Government of Manipur, Develop 
ment Department from the 1st March , 1955 to the 29th February 1956 and the 
appointment thereto of Sbri H. Runbir Singh, the present incumbent of the 
post . 

This cancels Manipur Secretariat Order No. DPC / 40,53/65 dated 7-3-55 . 


A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


PART 1 


NOTIFICATION 


Innphal, the th May, 1955 . 


No. H. Misc . 79 /51.- The Chief Commissioner has been pleased to insert the 
following condition (e ) after condition (d ) in the existing cinema licences. This will 
come into furce with immediate effect : 
Condition (e ) “ The licensee shall not display, or cause to be displayed , 

any photographs , picture or poster which depiots or represents 
or purports to represent a scene or shot which has been 
excised from any film under the orders of the Central Buard 
of Film Censors or the Central Government ” . 


G. H. Singh , 

Assistant Secretary 
(Home) to the Govt . of Manipur . 


Imphal , the 3rd May , 1955 . 
On account of the deputation of Shri L. Yaima Roy, Inspector, C. S. as Manuger, 
the All Manipur Agricultural Marketing Co -operative Society Ltd., I have cancelled 
iny order of appointing him as liquidator of the 

liquidator of the Chingmeirong Bazar C. S. Ltd. 
( Regd . 

No. 28 of 24-11-18 ) w . o . f. 3-5-55 and in his place Shri H. Droji Sarma , 
Assistant Auditor, 0. S. has been appointed and allowed to do the liquidation work 
of the said socie y with effect from the aforesaid date . 


Imphal, the 5th May , 19.55 . 
On account of the deputation of Shri L. Yaima Kny , Inspector, ( . S. as Manager 
of the All Manipur Agricultural Marketing C. S. Ltd. I have cancelled my order 
of appointing bim as liquidator of the Nongmeibung C. S. Ltd., ( Regd . No. 77 of 
1948-49 ) w . o. f . 4-5-74 and i .. his plac Shri H. Dauji Sarma, Assistant Auditor, 
C. S. has been appointed and allowed to do the liqui lution work of the said society 
with effect from the aforesaid dato . 

K. G. Singh , 

Assistant Registrar . 
Co -operative Societies , Mvipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 11 , 1985 . 


Imphul, the 29th April , 1935 . 
No. 7 / 15 /54. - The Essential Commodities Ordinance, 1955 (No. 1 of 1956 ) as 
published in the India Gazette dated 21-1-55 is republished in the Manipur Gazette 
for general information . 

T. Kalachand Singh , 
Assistant Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


THE ESSENTIAL COMMODITIES ORDINANCE , 1955 

No 1 of 1955 
PRUNI: I.CPATED BY TILE PRESIDENT IN TIE Firth YEW OF THE REPr BIIC OF INDIA . 
An Ordinance to provide , in the interests of the general public , for the control of 

the production , supply and distribution of, and trade and commeroe in , certain 
commodities , 

WHEREAS the Essential Supplies ( Temporary Powers ) Act, 1946 ( XXIV of 1946 ), 
which confers powers to control the production , supply and distribution of and trade 
and commerce in , certain commodities, expires on the 26th day of January , 1955 ; 

AND WUEREAs it is necessary , in the interests of the general public , to provide 
for the continuance of such powers in relation to some of the commodities specified 
in that Act and certain , other commodities ; 

AND WHEREAS Parliament is not in session and the President is satisfied that 
circumstances exist which reoder it necessary for him to take immediate action ; 

Now , THEREFORE , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1) of article 123 
of the Constitution , the Presidont is pleased to promulgate the fullowing Ordinance : 

1. Short title , extent and commencement.- ( 1) This Ordinance may be called 
the Essential Commodities Ordinance , ! 955 . 

( 2 ) It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir . 
( 3 ) It shall come into force on the 26th day of January , 1955 . 
2. Definitions.-- In this Ordinance, unless the context otherwise requires , - 
( a ) " essential commodity ” means any of the following classes of commodities 

( ) coal, including coke and otber derivatives ; 
(ii ) component parts and accessories of automobiles ; 
( iii) cotton and woollen textiles ; 
(iv ) iron and steel, including manufactured products of iron and steel ; 
(v ) paper , including newsprint, paper board and straw board ; 
( vi) petroleum and petroleum products ; 
(vii) falt ; 
(viżi) sugar ; 
( ir ) vanaspari ; 

(. ) vegetable oils ; 
and includes any other class of comdity which the Cintral Government may , hy 
notified order , decları) to by an 48:Ontiel commo lity for thy purposes of this Ordinanc ., 
being a commodity with resp.:ct to which Parliament has power to make laws by 
virtue of entry 33 in List lll in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution ; 

(6 ) " notified oriler” moins un order notified in the Official Gazette ; 
( c ) 

- State Government” in relation to y part C state means the Lioutenant 
Governor or the Chief Commissioner, as the case may be. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 11 , 1968 . 


or 


3. Powers to control production , supply , distribution , etc. of epential commao 
dtios.- (1) If the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient 
80 to do for maintaining or incronsing supplies of any essential commodity or for 
Becuring their equitable distribution and availability at fair prices , it may, by order, 
provide for regulatiny or prohibiting the production , supply and disiribution thereof 
and trade and commerce therein . 
( 2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by sub -sec 

tion (1 ), an order inade . thereurder may provid . - 
( a) for regulating by licences , permits or otherwise the production 

manufacture of any essential commodity ; 
(6 ) for controlling the prices at which any essential commodity 

commodity may be 
bouglat or sold ; 
(c ) for regulating by licences , permits or otherwise the storage, transport, 

distribution , disposal, acquisition , use or consumption of apy ( ssential 

commodity ; 
( ) for prohibiting the withholding from sale of any essential commodity 

ordinarily kept for sale ; 
( e ) 

for requiring any person holding in stock any essential commodity to 
sell the whole or a specified part of the stock to such person or class 
of persons and in such circumstanc. s as may be specifice in the order ; 
for regulating or prohibiting any class of commercial or financial tran 
sactions relating to cotton textiles which , in the opinion of the authority 
making the order are, or , if unregulated , are likely to bi, detrimental 

to the public interest ; 
( 9) for collectting any information or statistics with # . view to regulating 

or prohibiting any of the aforesaid matters ; 
(a ) for requiring persons engaged in the production , supply or distribution 

of, or trade and commerce in , any essential commodity to maintain and 
produce for inspection such books, socounts and records relating to their 
business and to furoish such information relating thereto , as may be 

specified in the order ; 
(1) for any incidental and supplementary matters , including in particular 

the entering, and search of premises, vehicles, Vessels and aircraft , the 
seizure by a person authorised to make such search of any articles in . 
respect of which such person has reason to believe that a contravention 
of the order has been , is being or is about to be committed , the grant 
or issue of licences, permits or other documents , and the charging of 
fees therefor . 


( 3 ) Where any person sells any essential commodity in compliance with an order 

made with reference to clause ( e) of sub -section ( 2 ), there shall be paid to 
him the price therefor as hereinafter provided : 
(a ) where the price oan , consistently with the controlled prion, if any , fixed 

under this section , be agreed upon , the agreed pride ; 
(0 ) where no such agreement can be reached , tbe price caloplated with 

reference to the controlled price , if any ; 
( 0) where neither clause ) 2or olaose (6) applies , the price calculated at 

the market rato prevailing in the locality at the date of sale . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 11 , 1965 . 


5 


( 4 ) If the Central Government is of opinion thut it is necessury so to do for main 
taining or increasing the production and supply of an essential commodity , it may , 
by order , authorise any person (hereinafter referred to as an authorised controller ) 
to exercise, witb respeut to the whole or any part of any such undertaking engaged 
in the production and supply of the commodity as may be specified in the order 
such functions of control as may be provided therein uud so long as such order is 
in force with respect to any undertaking or part thereof ,-- 

( 2) the authorised controller shuil exercise his functions in accordance with 

any instructions given to him by the Central Government, so however 
that he shall not have any power to give any direction inconsistent 
with the provisions of any enactment or any instrument determining the 
functions of tbe persons in charge of the management of the undertaking 

except in so far as may be specifically provided by the order; and 
(6 ) the undertaking or part shall be carried on in acourdance with any 

directions given by the authorised controller under the provisions of the 
order , and any person having any functions of management in relation 

to the undertaking or part shall comply with any such directions. 
( 6 ) An order made under this section shall , 
(a ) in the case of an order of a general nature or affecting a class of 

persons , be notified in the Official Gazette ; and 
(6 ) in the case of an order directed to a specified individual, be served 

on such individual 
( 1) by delivering or tendering it to that individual , or 
( ii ) if it cannot be so delivered or tendered , by affixing it on the outer 

door or some other conspicuous part of the premisos ir which that 
individual lives, and a written report thoreof sball be prepared and 

witnessed by two persons living in the neighbourhood . 
4. Powers to control intor - Stato trade and 

commerce in certain other 
commodities.- ( 1 ) This section applies to wheat, 

cotton (wbether ginned or 
unginned ), sugar-cane and any other commodity to which the Central Government 
maj, by notified order, declare this section to apply . 

( 2) If the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient 
80 to do for securing the equitable distribution and availability at fair prices of 
any commodity to wbich this section applies, it may, by notified order , provide for 
regulatiug by licences , permits or otherwise inter - State trade and commerce in any 
such commodity , and the notified order muy prescribe forms and conditions of licences 
or permits for regulating such trade and commerce, the authorities by which such 
licences or permits may be granted , the fees that may be charged therefor and any 
other matter required to render effective the control over such trade and commerce . 

5. Imposition of duties on State Governments , etc. - An order made under 
sootion 3 or section 4 may confer puwers and impose duties upon the Central 
Government or the State Government or officers and authorities of the 

Central 
Government or State Government , and may contain directions to any State Govern 
ment or to officers and authorities thereof as to the exercise of any such 

powers 
or the discharge of any such duties . 

Delegation of powers . - The Central Government may , by notified order , 
but that the power to make orders under section 8 shall , ia relation to such 
matter and subjoot to such conditions, it any , as may be specified in the direction , 
be exeroinable also by 


TW 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 11, 1958 . 


( a ) such officer or authority subordinate to the Central Government , or 
(b ) such State Government or such officer or authority subordinate to a 

State Goveroment, as may be specified in the direction . 
7. Effect of orders inconsistent with other enactments . - Any order made 
under section 3 or section 4 sbull huve effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent 
therewith contained in any enactment other than this Ordinance or any instrument 
having effect loy virtue of any enactment other thin this Ordinance. 

8. Penalties.- (1 ) If any person contravenes any order made under this Ordi 
Dance , 


- 


(a ) he shall be puuishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend 
to three years and shall also be liable to fine : 

Provided that if the court is of opinion that a sentence of fios only 
will meet the ends of justice, it may , for reasons to be recorded , refrain 

from imposing a sentence of imprisonment ; and 
(b) Any property in respect of which the order has been contravened or 

such part thereof as to the court may seem fit shall be forfeited to 
the Government: 


case 


may be, 


Provided that if the court is of opinion that it is not necessary 
to direct forfeiture in respect of the whole or, as the 
any part of the property , it may , for reasons to be recorded , refrain 

from doing so . 
(2 ) If any person to whom a direction is given under sub -section ( 1) of section 
3 fails to comply with the direction he shall be punishable with innprisonment for 

term which may extend to three years , or with fine , or with both . 


9. False statements .- If any person , 


(i ) when required loy any order under this Ordinance to make any statement 
or furpisb any information , makes any statement or 

statement or furnishes 

furnishes any 
information which is falso in any material particular and which be 
knows or has reasonable cause to believe to be false , or does not believe 

to be true, or 
(ii) makes itny such statement as aforesaid in any book , account , record , 

declaration , return or other donment which he is required by any such 

order to maintain or furnish , 
he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three 
years, or with fine , or with both . 

10. Offences by companies.- ( 1) If tha person co.atravening an order under 
sectiou 3 or fiction 4 is a company, every per: 011 who , at the tirag the 
vention was committed , was in charge of, and was responsible to, the company for 
the conduct of the business of the company well as the company, shall be 
deemed to be guilty of the contravention and shall be liable 

to be proceeded 
against and punished accordingly : 

Provided that nothing contained in this sub - saction shall randør any sugh . person 
liable to any puuiihreut if he proves that the contravention took place without 
bis knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent such contravention . 


coniru 


4 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 11 , 1968 . 


I 


or 


(2 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sul - section (1 ), where an offence 
under this Ordinanc : bus been committed by & company and it is proved that 
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attribu 
table to any neglect on the part of. any director , manager, secretary otber 
officer of the company , such director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also 
Le deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against 
and punished accordingly . 
Explanation . -For the purposes of this section , 
(a ) company means any body corporate, and includes a firm or other asso 

ciation of individuals ; and 
(6 ) "director in relation to a firm means a partner in the firm . 
11. Cognizance of offences .-- No court shall take cygnizance of any offence pu 
nishable under this Ordinance except on a report in writiag of the facts cunstituting 
such offence made by a person who is a public servant as defined in section 21 of the 
lndian Peoal Code (Act XLV of 1860 ) . 

12. Spacial provision regarding fine. - Notwithstanding anything contained in 
section 32 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 ( Act V of 1898 ), it shull be 
lawful for any magistrate of the first class specially empowered by the State Govern 
ment in this behalf and for any presidency magistrate to pass a sentonce of fine 
exceeding one thousand rupees on any person quavicted of contravening any order 
made under section 3 or section 4 . 

13 . Presumption as to orders. - Where an order purports to have been mide 
and signed by an authority in exercise of any power conferred by or under this 
Ordinance , & court shall presume that such order was so made by that authority 
within the meaning of the ladian Evidence Aot, 1872 (I of 1872). 

14. Burdon of proof in certain casas . Where a person is prosecuted for contra 
vening any order under section 3 or section 4 which probibits bim from doing any 
act or being in possession of a thing without lawful authority or without a permit, 
licence or other document, the burden of proving that he has such authority , permit , 
licence or other document shall be on him . 

15. Protection of action taken under Ordinance .- ( 1) No suit , prosecution 
or other legal proceeding shull lie against any person for anything wbich is in good 
faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of any order under section 3 or 
section 4 . 

(C ) No suit or other local proceediag shall lie aguinst the Government for any damage 
caused or likely to be caused by anything which is in good faith done or intended to 
be done in pursuance of any order under section 3 or section 4 . 

16. Savings -Aoy order made or deemel to be made under the Essential Supplies 
( Temporary Powers) Act , 1946 (XXIV of 1946 ), and in force immediately before the 
commenceipout of this Ordinance shall, in so far as such order may b. mad under 
this Ordinance, be deemed to be made under this Ordinance and continue in force , 
and accordingly any appointment made, licenc . or permit granted or direction issued 
under any such order and in force iininediately before such 

commencement shall 
cntinue in furcu unless and intil it is s: 1p 3r89rld by any a : printin int made , licenco 
or peruit granted or direction issued under this Ordinance . 

RAJENDRA PRASAD , 

President, 
K. Y. BHANDARKAR , 

necy . to the Govt. of India . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 11, 1956. 


PART IV 

NOTICE . 

Imphal, the 21st April , 1955 . 
No. 4 /55 / T. - Sealed tenders are invited for the supply of the following artioles : 
for the use of the District and Sessions Court , Manipur. Tenders addressed to the 
District and Sessions Judge, Manipur will be received by the undersigned upto 11.30 A.M. 
of the 16th May, 1955 and they will be opened at iP.M. of the same day before 
the tenderers . 

There shall be no binding to accept the lowest tender or to assign any reason 
for acceptance of any tender. 

Full particulars may be had from the office during working hours, 

1 . 1 (one) Almirah of Uningthou with glass front 7 } X4 x10 " 
2 . 1 (one ) 

6 x3 } x15 . 
M. Choudhury , 

C. 0. C. 
District & Sessions Cuurt, Maaipur. 


Imphal, the 30th April , 1955. 
Applications stating academical qualifications, age and past experiences if any 
are invited for the following temporary posts at the pay scale quoted belowr plus 
usurl D.A. as admissible by rule in the State P. W. V. Office . The same with full 
address of the applicant will be received by the undersigned upto the 16th May , 1955 . 

For the posts of the clerks and typist none need apply who is not a Matri 
culate of a recognised University . The application must be written with their own 
hand writing , as for typist the candidate will furnish their typing speed in their 
applications and . preference will be given to the best cne . If the applicants are 
married , number of wives should be mentioned . 

( a ) Two Lower Division Assistants @ 40-2-51 - EB - 3-80 -EB -4-100 P.M. 
( b ) One Typist 

@ 40-2-50 -EB - 3-80- EB - 4-10 :) P.M. 
( c) Three Orderlies 

@ , 22-1-28 P.M. 

Y. Tombi Singh , 

Executive Engineer 
Publio Works Department , Manipur. 


NOTIOE No. 3 /55-56 . 

Imphal, the 8th May , 1955 . 
Applications stating age on the 1st January , 1955 , qualifications and experience , it 
any , are invited for a temporary post of Assistant Food Production Officer in the Depart 
ment of Agriculture , Manipur on the Soale of Rs. 150-10-250 / - per month plus the dearness 
allowance admissible under Government rules . The post is likely to continue . The quali- . 
fications required aro , iu order of preference : 

( a ) A degree in Agriculture of a recognised University ; 
( b ) A degree in Science of a recognised University (with Botany as one of the 

subjects ). 
Each application should be accompanied by true copies of certificates and testimonials 
in support of the applicant s educational qualification , character and experience. It should 
also bu stated by each applicant whether he is married , and it so , whether he has more 
than one wife living. 

The applications will be received at the Office of tho undersigned during office houn 
" upto the 25th May, 1985 . 

N. K. Das , 
Director of Agriculture, Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 11, 1966 . 


NOTICE . 

Imphal, the 6th May , 1955 . 
No. 40 / C8 / 11/54-55. - It is hereby notified for general information that, pursuant 
to section 9 of the Co -operative Societies Act II 

Act II of 1912 , the Moirang More 
Weavers Co- operative Production & Sale Society Ltd. has been registered and 
numbered as 40 of 1964-65 dated the 3rd May, of the year one thousand uide 
hundred and fifty five Anno Domini. 


Imphal. the 5th May , 1955 , 
No. 41/ C8 / II / 54-55 .- It is bereby notified for goneral information that, pursuant 
to section 9 of the Co -operative Societies Act II of 1912, the Tungjoi Agricultural 
Oredit Society Ltd. has been registered sad nubered as 41 of 1954-88 , dated 
the 5th May of the year one thousand nine hundred and fifty five Anno Domini. 


Imphal, the 5th May, 1955 . 
No. 42/08/11/6 1-55.- It is hereby notified for general information tbat, pursuant 
to section 9 of the Co -operative Societies Adt Il of 1912 , the North Centre 
Changgang Naga Cattle Breeding Co - operative Society Ltd. has been registered and 
Qumbered as 42 of 1964-55 , dated the fifth May of the year one thousand nine 
hundred and fifty five Anno Domini. 

K. G. Singh , 

A ssistant Registrar , 
Co-operative Societies, Manipur. 


Notice No. 1 of 1955-56 . 
Notice is hereby given for general information that license for growing ganja 
plants in Manipur during the year ending 318t March , 1966 , will be granted to 
bonafide cultivators of Manipur. Applications in the prescribed form and properly 
stamped sbould reach the 

undersigned on or before the 15th May , 1955 . 
A sum of annas six will be charged as license feu pier plant which shall have 
to be paid at the time of the issue of license . 

Except under the authority and in aocordance with the terms and conditions 
of a license granted in that bebalf no hemp plant shall be grown or cultivated 
by any person . Any one found to 

have grown ganja without a license shall be 
liable to prosecuted under the E.B. & Assam Excise Act 1 of 1910 . 


By order , 

N. K. Singh, 

Inspector of Exciso, Manipur . 

FORM OF APPLICATION . 
( 1 ) Name of applicant 
( 2 ) Profession 
( 3) Father s name and address (give name of Tabasil and village ) 
(4 ) Patta and Daler number of the land where 

where the applicant 
proposes to grow ganja: and the name of the villaye & Tahsil 

where the land is situated , 
(6) " The area of the land on which ganja is proprised to lo grown 
(6 ) The puinber of plants the applicant wants to grow 
Date ..... 

Signaturo of applicant. 


i 


10 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 11 , 1966 


Imphal, the 5th May , 1955 . 
No. Tax /51/68-B. - The following Pruas Nuto received from the Government of Patials & 
East Punjab States Union is published for general iuforination . 

T. Kalachand Singh , 
Assistant Seortary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


. 


PRESS NOTE . 
In accordance with the interpretation of Article 280(1) (a) of the Constitution of India 
Liven by the Supreme Court in their judgment dated 30th Marclı, 1953 in A case regarding 
the Bombay State versus the United Motors and others , sales tax is leviable on non -resident 
dealers ly the State in which yoods sold by them are delivered for consumption . This 
State Government have , therefore , decided to lovy sales tax on all such sales affected on or 
after the 1st January , 1954. 

It is further notified for the information of non - resident deal.rs that the taxable quan 
tum iu their case has been prescribed at Rs.5,000 and the dealers who are liable to pay tax 
should , before 15th February, 1955 , apply to the Excise & Taxation Officer, Non - reridents 
Circle , Patiala , for registration under section 7 of the PEPSU General Sales Tax Ordiance , 
2006 , along with a treasury receipt of Rs. 5 as registration fee to be deponited in the Govt. 
treasury at Patiala . The registration fee can also be remitteil by a Bank Draft on the 
Imperial Bank of Indir at Aubala , Delhi and Bombay drawn in favour of the Treasury 
Officer, l’atiala , which should be forwurdod t ) the aforesaid assessing authority . 

The non -resident registered dealers shall submit by post quarterly returus within 30 
days of the quarter ending 30th June , 30th September , 318t December and 31st March 
every year in the prescribed form , obtaioable free from the said assessing authority , in 
respect of sales made for consumption in this state, along with the amount of tax payable 
in the manner alrendy stated above. The declaration forma prescribed for the purpose and 
duly signed by the purchasing registered dealers , shall also be fornished along with the 
quarterly returns . 

It has been further arranged that the accounts of a dealer would be examined at 
centrally located place in his State and efforts would be made to hear appeals in the 
dewler s State of residence . 

In PEPSU , there is a single point sales tax and the tax is chargeablo at the rate of 
two pice a rupee subject to deduction , laid down in sections and 6 of the said Ordinance . 

Copios of the Sales Tax Ordinance and the Rules thereunder can bo had from the 
Superintendent, Bhupendra State Press, Patiala , on payment . 


Patiala , 
Dated , the 12th January , 1955 . 


R. K. Wattal, 
Finance Secretary . 


Imphal, tube 5th May , 1956 . 
No. 2 /JS / 11/65-66 . It is boreby, notified for general information that , pareunat 
to suction 20 of tho " Societies Registration Ao: XII of 1860 ; Abisoolation wither 
the name and style of the Manipar Gurkha: Wellato Union has been incorporated 
and nanabörod at No. 3 of 1986-06 , dated the fifth May of thin your ono * thousad 
nine hundred and Afty five Anno Domini. 

G. Sigita 

Bi 
Joint Stock Companies, Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 11 , 1955 . 


ii 


নােটশ নং ৫ । 


১।।৫৫ ইং । 
সিনা মরন ওইনা এ মা হনরি । মানি 

যদি ককচীং পলে মাজা লৈৰা কাঙঙেই মধ্যে অসি 
ভং ১। ৬। ৫৫ ইদগী তাং ৩১। ৩৫৭ ইং ফাও খুম শুননবগীদমক কোলেষ্ট অফিস তাং ২০।।৫৫ ইংগী কাংখিল পুং 

মা তাৰ ফাণ্ড চায় না টেণ্ডর লৌজগনি । টের পাৰিনিং মীশিংনা মম অ মেৰিগা মখালী নিশিং অসিম 
মইল টের পীবিগদৰনি । 

টেণ্ডর গীৰিনিং মীনা বুপা ২৫ (কমা) আরনেই মনি ( earnest money ) ওইনা ইফাল টেরিদা পীগ 
দৰনি অমসুং চলান কপী অম টেণ্ডরগা লােইনা পাৰিগৰনি । চলাল অসি যাওদৰা টের এ লেীনােই । ফাওদ মীলীদি 
কারনে যনি অং হলােকচগনি । অফাণ্ডৰা মাগীদি সেকুরিটি (Security ) গী শরুক অমা ওইনা নৌ য়াই । 

টেণ্ডর পবিনিংবা মীশিংনা হায়রিবা ধুমখােঙ অসি নথকা শনিবা মতন অসিম অপুনৰ শেল করা বা 
গদগে হামবা অছু শেংনা ইৰিগৰনি । 

টের অদু মানে হয়না খঙবা সুমিগে টের ফাওরি মী অদুনা মােল অগী মংদা পাটা সহি জেরিগা 
পাঠাগী মতুংইন্না খবক শুবিগবনি । 

৩। বাইদগী অহেন টের লৌদ্রসু কনাগু অমগ টেণ্ডর নৌ তা মুক্ত ফোরেষ্ট অফিসারগনি । 

৫ । টেরা শিৎপা শেলগ মথা অনৌবা সরকারী নিয়ম মইয়া লুপা অমদা পৈশ ১ • ( জনি ) গ হিংসা শেল 
টেস সৌগনি । 

অঙ্গা মনােল ফোরেই অফিস হবিরবা গনি । 


একে, বিকমচন্দ্র সিংহ , 
কোনাে অধিকার, মনির । 


Imphal Prarted and insisted by the Superintendo 


৫- ৫ -- 


Manipur 


Gazette 


मन्यमेव 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 11 


Imphal , Wednesday , May 18 , 1958 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


Nil 


Part I. - Appointments , Postings, Transfers, Powers , 

Leave a d other porsonal notions, 
Part II . - Rexolutions , Regulations, Orders , Notif 

cations, Rules etc. 


Part III .- Orders, Notifications, Rules of 

the Goverument of ladia , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Noticos ato . 


Nil 
3 to 8 


1 to 3 


PART II 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 11th May , 1955 , 
No. R / 2 53: 31. - In oxercise of the power conferred upon bim by Section 68 
of the Beam Land and Revenue Regulation 1886 , 88 extonded to Manipur, the 
Chief Commissioner of Manipur is pleased to declare that penalty at the following 
rates would be Levied for failure to pay land revenue by the prescribed dale . This 
order will come into furce with effect from 1st April , 1955 . 

1 . 4 anuas for & upto Rs. 57- of revenue. 
2 . 8 annas fir over Rs. 5 / - & upt ) Rs. 15 /- of revenue. 
3 . 12 81.bas for ovor Rs. 15 / - & upto Rs. 40 /- of revenue . 
4 . Re . - for over Rs. 40 / - and above , 

Maximum Loing Ro. 1 / 


Imphal, the 11th May , 1955 . 
No. J/ 17 /51. - In exercise of the powers conferred under Section 296 ( 2) of the 
Assam Municipal Act, 1923 ( Assam Act 1 of 1923) as oxtended to the State of 
Manipur by the Government of India , Ministry of States Notification No. SRO 
147 dated 8-1-52 it is proposed to make the following amendments to the rules 
made for the election of members of the Municipal Board in Manipur under the 
Suid Act as applied to Mauipur and published under this Secretariat Notification 
Xo . J !31/62 lated 10-11-552 in an Extra Ordinary Gazette issue of the Manipur 
Gazette dated 28-11-52 , in compliance of the pr visi ins of 8. orion 296 ( 3 ) of the 
Aasem Municipal Ict , the proposed & irendment is published below . Ohjections it 
any , to the pror.osed amendment may be sent so as to reach the Manipur Seora 
teriat in the Judicial Department by the 31st of May , 1955 at the latest . 

PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
In clause ( I) of sub- rule ( 2 ) of rule 3 of the said rules , for the figure 
sud word “ two rupees ” substitute the figure and word " ono rupoo " . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


MANIPUP. GAZETTE , MAY 18 , 1986 . 


Imphal, the 9th May , 1955 . 
No. Tax /10 /52. - In exercise of the powers con [erred upon him , by Section 52 
of the Assam Sales Tax Act as extended to Manipur, the Chief Commissioner of 
Manipur is pleased to make, after previous publication , the following amendment 
to the Manipur Sales Tax Rules , 

Rules, 1952 issued under notification No. Tax / 10 /82 
dated 4th October 1952 . 

1. Rule 20. Substitute the following for the existing rule : 

Every resident dealer shall furnish returns monthly, to return for earh c:alundur 
month shall be submitt. ed within a fortnight of com : letion of the month 

in Trs 
pect of which the return is to be filed . Ho hall dso furnish hf yo rly conso 
lidated return in respect of cach half year within 30 days of the completion 
the half your in respect of 

which the return is to be filed . The first monthly 
return for the monthly rotun period ending 30-11-55 should be submitted within 
15th of May, " 1966 and the first consolidated half yearly return for 

the period 
ending 30-9-55 should be submitted within the month of 0.:tober 1955. Non resident 
dealers need , however , submit only half yearly reiurns which should b.sulimitted within 
30 days of completion of the half year in respect of whic i th · return is fileri . 

T. Kalachand Singh , 
Asstt. Secretury 10 tlies Govt. of Manipur . 


or 


Inphal, the 14th May , 955 . 
No. R /Fy/ 3 /53. - The Chief Commissioner is pleased t 8inctio . the de - resorvation 
of Fishery No. 312 of the Nambul river from loise.i don t K - isa nupat Bride and 
of Fisbery No. 313 of the same river from Keis ...,, 10 Bridge to 11.- irangoithong 
Bridge with effect from 1st April , 1956 . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chiif Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


NOTIFICATION . 


The Prevention of 
Corruption ( Amand 
went) Bill , 1954 


Imphal, the 9th liay , 1951 
No. J / 15 /55 .-- In accordance with the motion adopted by the 
Lok Sabha on the 2nd April 195 ), that thn murginully noted Bill 
he circulated for the purpose of eliciting opinion 
end of July , 1951, the sud Bill with the Statement is pullished 
for general infurmation , 
Any person I pulilic body desiring to submit 

an opinion on 
the Bill should please do so only through the State Govertiment. 
Any opinion which is submitted di ect to the Lok Subh , Secretariat 
or to any Ministry of ih Government of India will not be acrepted . 

Opinions desired to be counnunicated to the Lok Sabhu Secretariat 
should reach the Chief Secretary hy thic lat of July 1957. 


A. K. Ray , 
Chief S :cretary to the Govt. of Munipur. 


Bill No. 41 of 1954 
THE PREVENTION OF CORRUPTION (.IMENDMENT) 

BILI , 1954 . 


( .1 * INTRODUCED IN TIF LOL BAHIA 


A 


BILL 


further to amend the Prevention of Corrupſion Act . 1947. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 18 , 1983. 


Be it upactud by Parliament in the Fifth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows : 

1. Short title . This act may be called the Prevention of Corruption (Amend . 
ment) Act , 19 

2. Amondmont of section 5 , Act II of 1947 .-- After sub -section ( 3 ) of section 
5 of the Provention of Corruption Act , 1947 the following sub -section shall be 
inserted , namely : 

“ ( a ) Where in any trial of an offence punishable under sub - section (2 ), the itccused 
person is fouud guilty , such finding being based , either wholly or partly , upon a 
presumption arising under sub -sectiou (3 ) , the 

the Court shall , while awarding tho 
punishment under sub- section ( 8 ), direct that in addition thereto , the pecuniary 
resources or property disproportionate to the accused persin s knowa means of income, 
the possession of which rusourcos or proporty by the accused or by any 
on his behalf in the circumstauces laid down under sub -section ( 3) gave rise to the 
pre umption thereunder be forfeited to the Uniin or State Government to the 
quasi - government administration , ils the case may be , under which the accused 
person was serving ” . 

STATEMENT ( F OBJECT AND REAsoxs 


person 


or 


ON 


more 


The Prevention of Corruption Act , 1947 which Orme into firce the lith 
March , 1947, was intended to secure 

offective prevention of bribery and 
corruption than were alrvady provided for linder Chapter IX if the Indian 
l enal ( ode . 


Wos 


to 


Although the Act , originally intendrd to remain in force fur „ hre . years, 
extended frym time to time, it has not yet had the desired effect. 

The Criminal Law ( Amendment) Act , 1952 while so king a inore spoedy trial 
in uffences relating to bribery and corruption and provi ling for special judges 
try such cases , made the offer of bribe sulotantive offence in itself, thereby 
deterring brite -givers from coming forward to give evidence , in spite of provisions 
regarding the tender of pardons . 

It has also been found in practice that corrupt officials who have amassed huge 
wealth ly bribery or habitual acceptance ir receipt of bribes are not greatly detorred 
by punishmont of imprisonment or fin .) indir sih - section ( 2 ) of section 5 of the Act. It is 
therefcre necessary to provide som , deterrent measure which would more effectively 
check bribery and corruption . 

Confiaction of properties of corrips officers. Ho far as thu possession of such 
properties has been frund sufficient for it presumption of guilt under 

under sub -section 
( 3 ) of section 5 of the lot would miks the provisions of the Act more effectiva . 
Hence this Bill. 

UMI CHARAN PATNAIR . 
PART IY 

:: 
Notice No. 2 of 55-56 . 
The last date of the applications for the cultivati in of wanja which was fixed 
for 15th May , 1955 under Excise Notice No. 1 of 1953-56 published in the Gazette 
dated Ilth May , 1955 h :29 been extended up.tu 31st May , 1955 . 

N. K. Singh , 
Inspector of Excisc , Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 18 , 1955 . 


NOTICE . 


Imphal, the 6th May , 1956 . 
In partial modification of the BYE -LAWS FOR THE REGULATION OF CYCLE 
TRAFFIC IN TOWN FUND AREA which were published on 19-1-55 in the PRAJI 
TANT A and on 20-1-55 in the NGASI the Imphal Town Fund Committee Roro 
lution No. 18 of 18-2-95 is published for general information . 

IMI HAL TOWN FUND ( OMMITTEE RESOLUTION No. 18 of 18-2-65. 
" To consider a proposal for the mcdification of the hye- laws regarding Cycle traffic . 

Re olved that for the word " Fine" occuring at tho end of each of thy byu- lows, 
the following should be read : 
“ Fine not exceeding " . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chairman , Imphal Town Fund . 


Imphal, the 14th May , 1955 . 
The receiving date for the applications for the following posts under the P.W.D. 
Manipur will bo extended upto the 25th May , 1955 . The intending candidates 
may submit their applications to the uudersigned upto the above mentioned time. 

(4 ) Lower Division Assistants . 
( b ) On . Typist . 
( c ) 3 Orderlies , 

Y. Tombi Singh , 

Executive Engincer , 
Public Works Department, Manipur. 


Notice No. 9 / Jail of 1956 . 

Imphal, tbe 10th May , 1955 . 
Applications, ncconipanied by character testimonials & Certificatos , stating the 
foll ,wing particulars in a tabular form from the bonafide subject of Maripur Srate 
#re invited to bo received by the undersigned upto 27-5-55 , 3 P.M. for nne tem 
porary post of Warder on the scale of Rs. 28-1-40 for 010 year, likely to continuo 
for further periods . Those who are already in service should apply through the 
prriper channels 


1. Full name .......... 
2. Fathur s name....... 
3. Addresses - home & present. 
4. Age between 18 to 25 as on 1/6/65 ........ 
8. Height not less than 5 feet & 3 inches .... 
6 . ( hont m usurement not less than 31 inch me ... 

7. Academic qualitications and experiences, if any .... 
Prt forence will be given to ox -servicemen . The oandidatos 
u to 

appear for 
perar 

and interview in the Advisers Council Hall at 10 A.M. on 24/6/35 . Selected 
oundidate should be prepered to join duties from 1/6/1965 . 

T. C. Tiankham , 
Superintendent, Jail , Manipur. 


i 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 18 , 1955 . 


NOTICE . 


Imphal , the 4th May , 1955 . 
No. C.HDE / 78 , 54 . - The Govornment of India have decided to insitute a scheme 
for the award of scholarships for higher studies in Hindi iu Institutions of higher 
learning in Hindi speaking States. National of those Srates where Hindi is not 
& speaking language and where facilities for highor studies in Hindi do not exist, 
are eligible for the scholarships. Only one scholarship will be awarded to a nominee 
of each State Government from such areas . The states are Andhra , Assam , Coorg . 
Kutcb , Madrus, Manipur , Mysore, Pepsu , Orissa , Saurashtra , Travancore -Cochin and 
l ripura . The foliowing minimum qualifications are proscribed for different courses 
of study : 


For Ph.D. or equivalent course . 
For M ... or equivalent course . 


First Class M.A. degree in Hindi 
Second Class B d . degree with Hindi 
is elective suloject & with at least 
00 % m : rks iu llindi. 
Second Class in Intermediate with 
Hindi as one of the elective subjects 
and with at least 60 " marks in Hindi. 


For B. 4. ( Hons . in Hindi ) 

course . 


The value of the Scholarship shall be : 

( a ) M A./Ph.D . courses . 
( b ) B.A. ( Hons . in Hindi) course . 


Rs 150 /-p.m . 
Rs 125 /-p.m . 


The above rates will be inclusive of all expenses for maintenance , looks and 
fees prj able by the scholar to the institution . Selected students will be paid single 
Second Class fure from the place of residence to the place of study and back and 
also for sumıner vacations. A candidate for Ph.D , course , on completion of his work 
shall furnish to the Govern nuent of India and to the University or Institution where 
be engages himself in research , one copy of the thesis or the result of tbe reseurch 
undertaken , free of charge . Candidates should not be more than 30 yea 
on lot of July , 1955 though this limit may be relaxed in exceptional cases where 
the candidate is already employed in an educational institution . 

2. One of the essential conditions for the award of the scholarship , is that 
the candidate concerned should serve the State Goveromont, after the successful 
completion of his studies . either to teach Hindi in an educational Institution or 
in a position where knowledge of Hindi and its use is considered essential. The 
selected candidate will 

will have to 

execute 

& Bond with the State Government to 
serve them for a period of 3 years. If the scholarship - bolder leaves tbe studies 
without successful completion , he will be required to refund the entire amount 
spent on him by the Government of India . 

Further partioulars including application forms may kindly be obtained from 
the Superintendent of Home Office during office hours . The last date for receiving 
application in this Secretariat is 30th May , 1955. Tbo applications are to reach 
the Government of India before 10th June , 1956 . 


T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 18 , 1956 . 


NOTICE. 

Imphal, the 14th May , 1953. 
Applications in the prescribed forms for M. B. P. S. Course available from my 
Office bave to be sent to the Director General of Health Services, New Delhi 
through me. Last date of submission to me is 10th June , 1955. Only those candi 
dates who have secured at least 50 % of the aggregate marks at Intermediate 
Science (Medical Group ) or equivalent examination need apply . 
Scholarships of Rs. 50 / - P.M. 

awarded by this State . The applicants 
should state whether he is married and if so , whether he has more than oue 
wife living 


mly be 


Imphal, the 14th May , 1956 . 
Applications stating age and previous experience are invited for the following posts 
in the pay scale noted against each of the post for the Civil Huspital of Manipur Rifles 
and will be received by the undersigned upto 3 p . m . of 31-5-53 . The applications 
are to be addressed to the Chief Medical Officer, Manipur. Hach applicant should 
state whether he is married and if so , whether he has more than one wife living . 
Name of Post . 

Pay Scale . 

Remarks . 
1. One post of Compounder, 

Rs. 40-2-70 / 

Minimum qualification 
passed the course of 

compounder, 
One post of Water Carrier . 

Rs. 22-1-28 / 
3 . One post of Sweeper . 

Rs. 22-1-29 
Candidates are to produce their testimonials in original in the time of interview . 


2 . 


... 


N. B. Roy , 
Offg . Chief Medical Officer , Manipur , 


Proclamation under Section 19 of the Provincial Insolvency Act V of 1920 . 

IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL COMMISSIONER : MANIPUR : AT IMPIAL . 


Notice is hereby given that the undermentioned person has applied to this Court 
to be adjudicated insolvent, and that his application having byen admitted , will be 
heard on the date specified in colum 4 of the statement below . Any creditor wisbiog 

89me may appear on the date fixed either in person or by a 
pleader : 


to 


oppose the 


Name, parentage, oocupation and place of residence of the - 


No of the case , 


Petitioner 


Creditor , 

3 


Dato fixed for 
hearing the 
application . 

1 


1 


2 


1 of 1955 . 


27-6-53. 


Mojrangthem Ahongjao Singh R. K. Bhaskor Singh of 
8 /o lato Chouba Singh of Wangkhei Leikai. 
Bamdiar Basti P. S. Imphal. 


Given under my hand and the seal of the Court this 3rd day of May , 1936 . 

By order eto . 
K. B. Singh , 

Registrar , 
Judicial Commissioner s Court , Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 18 , 1958 . 


7 


NOTICE. 

Imphal, the 17th May , 1955. 
Applications from qualified candidates are invited for the following temporary 
posts in the pay scale mentioned below plus deurnees allowances ay admissible by 
rule under the Public Works Department, Manipur so as to reach the office of 
the undersigned on or before 8th June, 1955 . Presint and permanent address, 
nationality , age, details of academic qualification and past experience of the candi 
date should be mentioned in their applications. Nono need apply who is not of 
good health and active habits . As for the clerks the minimum qualification of the 
candidate must be at least a Matriculate of a recognised University and applications 
must be written by their own hand -writing . For the post of the Accountant only 
applications from qualified one will 

one will be received and considered . If the applicants 
are married , numbers of wives should be mentioned . 
Designation of post. 

Scale of pay P.M. 
( a ) One Divisional Accountant. 

100 (during probation )-130-10-250 

( E.B .) - 15-355 / 
( b ) One Head Clerk : 

125-5-175 / 
( c ) Some Upper Division Clerks . 

100-5-150 / 
( d ) Some Lower Division Clerks. 

40-2.50 ( E.B . )- 3-80( E.B . )- 4-100 . 
( o ) One Tracer Draftsman . 

60-3-75 -EB-80-4.100 - EB - 5-125 / 
( f ) Ono Daftry . 

25-3-30 . 
( g ) Some Peons (including Cycle peon ) .. 

22. - 28 . 
( h ) One Chowkidar . 

22-1-28 . 

Y. Tombi Singh , 

Executive Engineer , 
l ublic Works Department, Manipur. 


Imphal, the 2nd May , 1955 . 
Applications are invited & will be received by the undersigned on or before 
24th Juus/ 55 for admission to the B.Sc. (Honours ) Nursing Course of Delhi Uui 
versity . 
Admission requirements : Delhi Higher Second try or equivalent. Preference will be 
given to those candidates who have passed Inter Science or Inter Arts in 1st or 2nd 
Division Age 16 years or 

above . Good Jealth . 
Course begins July 15th . 
Only women candidates are eligible . Living in hostel is compulsory . 

The following concessions may be awarded by this State . 
1. Registration fee . 

Rs. 5 / - (Rupees five) , 
2. University fee . 

5 / 
3. College tuition fee. 

150 (Rupees one hundred 

For the first 
fifty ) 

year only 
4 , For Books 

100 (Rupees one hundred ). 
5 . Examination fer 

25 /- ( twonty - five ). 
6 . Deposit for breadage. 

10 / - ( ten ) . 

Refundable at the 
7. Library . 

five ). 

end of thecourse . 
8. Hostel fee . 

41- ( four). p . m . 
9 . Games fee , 

- /- /- (Annas eight). p . m . 
10 . Health fee. 

1 / - (Rupee one ). p . m : 
11 . Messing Allowance , 

50 /-(Rupees fifty ) . 19 
12 . Fees for fan . 

two and 80 

nas twelve ) p . m . 
Further information about this Course is available from the Principal, College 
of Nursing , 12 Jaswant Singh , Road , New Delhi. 

N. B. Ray , 
Offg . Chief Medical Officer, Manipura 


:: 


. 


5 / - ( 


2/12 / - / 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 18 , 1955 . 


নােটিশ নং ৬ । 


৩ । 


ফাউদখা 


৪ । 


তাং ৬।৫ । ৫৫ ইং । 
। অসিনা মরম ওইদুনা প্রজা পুমা খংহজরি । 
মমদি ; 

মখদা ইরিবা অনৌবা মুংফা অসিদগ শুরু ফুকপা , ইকপা অমসুং ললোনবগী বক অসি 
ভাং ১৬৫৫ ইংদগী তাং ৩ : ৩৫৭ ইং ফাওবা তেলিনবা ফোরেষ্ট আফিস তাং ২৪৫৫৫ ইং নিংথৌকাবা মিৎকী 
= খিল পুং ২ ভাবা ফাওবা চাজুম নম্বা টেণ্ডর লৌজগনি । 

পৰক অসি তৌবিনিংৰা মাশি তাং ১৬।৫৪ ইংগী তাং ৩১।৩৫৬ ইং ফা ও মতম অধিগী রেট ( te ) 
অমা অমসুং তা : ৪৫৬ ইদগা তাং ৩১৩৫৭ ইং ফাওবা অগিগ রেট ( rate ) অমা ভােঙান , তােঙামা মম 
নিসিগী উৎপাদৰনি । 

টেণ্ডর পৰীনিংবা মী খুদিমকা অনেষ্ট ( e৫ // ex ) মনি ( mdme ) ওইনা লুপ ৫০, ইম্ফাল ট্রেঞ্জরিদা 
( Impokut Tre » ura ) দা গম্বীগদবনি অমস্ত চালান কপি জমা টেণ্ডরগা লােইননা পিবিগবনি । Bato (chalan ) 
মাওবা টেণ্ডর অমতা লৌজরােই । 

টেলগীদি আরনেষ্ট মনি অদু হলােকচগনি । অফাওবা টেণ্ডগীদি 
আরনেষ্ট মনি অদু সেকিউরিটি (secutta ) গী শৰুক অমা ওইনা পাটার্গী মতম লােইদ্রিবা ফাঙৰ গম্ব নাই । 
টেরারনা মহাকী টের অদু য়ারে হায়বা চয়ােল অমগী মংদা পাই। সহি তেবিলগা পাট্টা 

পাট্টা মতুংইমা 
এক তৌৰিগৰনি । পাটা সহি তৌবা সুমিত্তা মােননাপােলি ফী অপু পিগদবনি অমসুং সুংফম অসিগী মােনােপােলি 
ফি অদুনা লুপা চাম্মদগী চামঙা ফাওবা ওইরগা লুপ ৫০ , ( য়া )ৈ , সুপা ৫০০ ( চামঙ) ) দী হেনলগা লুপ। ১০০ , 
( চা ) ট্রেজারি চালান ওইনা জামীন ( security ) খন্বিগবনি । জামীন অসি পাটাগী মতম লােইরগা শেলাই 
মাওদন হলোকচগনি । পটাদারন । কবিগু সরকারগী অতােন শেল লৈরবদি জামীন অসিদগী ককলগা অতােনবা শেল অদু 
উশল ভোগনি । করিও জামিন অসিনা অতােনা অনু কুপখৎপা শুদ্ৰবদি লৌ ইঙ্গেল খাজনা তােগা লোখৎপা নিয়ম মতুংইয়া 
সরকারগী শেলােল উশােল তৌগনি । 

কুংফম অসি শুবিনিংবা নীশিংনা টেণ্ডর তৌদ্রিঙৈদা হান্না মফম অদু চতুনা য়েংবিৰুৱগা দে ওর তৌবিগদবনি । 
লৌবা মতুংদা মুংফম মুং লৈমদ্রে শেল হনবীয় হায়বনচিংবা তৌরকপা দাবী অমৎতা লৌজরােই । পাটাগী মতম 
লােইর মতুংদা সুংফমদা ইক্তবা মুং থন আরেই । থন থােক্লবদি সরকারগী ওইগনি । 

৬ । সুং শুবা মতমদা ফুকলি সুং অদু লােইদ্রিঙৈদা অতােপ্পা কুংফম অমা মচেৎ, মচেৎ ওইনা শুবা আমােই । 
Tং ইবা শিং মানব মতমদা পাকনা শিং মানবা মায়েই । জাৎ খাইবা উগ জাং ওই ককপা মারোই 
উ মচা ফুৎ অমন কোনবা উদগী হেন ভাক্তা য়ানগদবনি । ফোরেষ্ট ডিপার্টমেন্টনা মরুগীদমক খাকপা উ য়ানবা মারােই । 
৭। ক্বাইদগী শেল হেনব নব কনাগু অমগী টেণ্ডর লৌবগী ক্ষমতা যুক্ত ফোরেষ্ট অফিসারগনি । 

মােনগদ মুংফমগী মমিং । 
হৈরাংগােইলােক শু নুংফম । 

ইন্দাসদগী শুগনু লবীদা মাইল ৩৫ চৎলগা তে 
লােক তুরেলগী মরু -বাইদা লৈা শুনু নুংফম শৌবােম অমসুং কাংখল যানবী শুধু মুফমগী মাইল অহুম অমসুং ৩২ 
নােম লাপননা শৈবা শু পুংফমনি । 


R. K. Bijoicbanda Singh , 
ফোরেষ্ট আফিসার, মনিপুর । 


Imphal : - Printed and published by the Superintendent Government Prem 0. 300 /18-5-58 


1 


Manipur 


Gazette 


TAGS STUTA 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 12 


Imphal, Wednesday , May 25 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


1 to 2 


Part I. - Appointments , Postings, Transfers, Powers , 

Leavo aud other personal notiook , 
Part II.- Rosolutions, Regulations, Ordera, Notin 

cations, Rules otc . 


Part 111. - Orders, fictifications, Rulos of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Noticos etc. 


Nil 
4 to 8 


2 to 4 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


1 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner 

Imphal, tbe 19th May , 195.). 
No. H.Apptt . 39/54 .-- The Chief Commissiouer is pleased to appoint Shri S. 
Gopendra Sharma, Chief Social Education Organiser , Community Project, Thoubal 
as Publicity Officer, Manipur in the scale of Rs. 250-250-300 (Con ) -26-400 (EB )-25 
600 (EB )-25-650 /- with effect from the date of joining . He will be on probation for 
two years . 


Imphal, the 21st May , 1956 . 
No. I-CO / 17 /64/ 104. - The Chief Commissioner is pleased to appoint Shri Prafulla 
Chandra Sarma Bordoloi, Project ( ooperative Officer oi ( achar Project, Andain , as 
Assistant Registrar of Co -operative Societies , Manipur at the initial pay of Rs. 299 /- p.m. 
in the scale of Rs . 180-2011-EB - 10-250 -EB - 15-400-20-600 /- p.m , with usual doarboss 
allowance. He will be on probation for two years . 


G H. Singh , 
Asstt . Secretary (Home) to the Govt. of Manipur. 


Imphal, the 18th May, 1955 . 
No. F -DPC /99/ 53 . — The Chief ( ommi-sioner is pleased to sanction tho creation 
of a tenporary post of Block Development Officer for the M80 -Maram 

M80 -Maram National 
Estension Service Block in the scale of s. 150-150-2 0-1 1-28 1- ( EB )- 0-300-127-375 
(EB )-12 }-450 /- with allowances as admissible under th rul- 8 with effect from the 
ist October , 1954 upto the end of February . : 956 ind the 

Hp.onntunelit thereto 
of Shri K. Obou Mao , Assistant Food Production Officer from the first October , 1964. 
The expenditure is debitable to the sunctioned 

the sanctioned grant under " 63- B - Community 
Derelopment Projeots ” for this State for 1955-26 . 


H. R. Singh , 
Asstt . Seoretary (Dev ), to the Govt. of Manipur . 


2 


MANIPUP. GAZETTE , MAY 25 , 1988 . 


Imphal, the 17th May , 1955. 
No. R /48 /51-11 . - In exercise of the powers conferred upon him by Section 329 
of the Assam Municipal Act, 1923 as applied to Manipur, the Chief Commissioner 
is pleased to direct that the Town Committee to be appointed for the area at 
Sekmai Bazar which has been declared to be a notified area under Notification 
No. R / 48 /51- II / 14 dated 12-10-01 published in Manipur Gazette No. 33 of 20-10-54 
shall consist of seven inembers to be nominated by the Chief Commissioner . 

The following would be members of the Committee for a period of three years 
or till the issue of furtber orders in this respect by the Chief Commiesioner wbioh 
ever is earlier . 

The Chief Commissioner is further pleased to direct that the Sub-Deputy Collector, 
Imphal West Tahsil and the Forest Department Officer stationed at Sekmai shall 
respectively be the Ex - Officio Chairman and Secretary of the Committee . 
Ex -Officio members . 

1. S.D.C., Imphal West Tahsil , Chairman . 

2. Forest Department Officer stationed at Sekmai. 
r 3 , 

3. Shri Kb . Chaoba Singh , Member, Electoral College . 
4 . 

Angnal Anal, 
Members . 

6 . 

8. Apabi Sarma . 
6 . Kh . Jogendra Singh . 
7. Sardar A888 Singh . 


Imphal, the 18th May , 1955 . 
No. R.I./15/53 . In continuation of the orders issued under this Secretariat 
Notification No R / 15 /53 / 80 dated Sth September 1954 , the Chief Commissioner is 
pleased to extend the term of appointment of Sbri Tb . Birahari Singh as Extra 
Assistant Commissioner for a period of one year with effect from the 1st March , 
1985. He will continue to be in charge of the Churachandpur sub -division . 


A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


Imphal, the 21st May , 1955 . 
No. I -MM / 36 / 55 /51. - In continuation of this Administration Order No. MD /36 / 
58/9 dated the 25th March 19.55 the Chief Commissioner is pleased to extend the 
term of leave granted to Dr. A. C. Kapur, Cbiet Medical Officer , Manipur for 
anorber one montb . 

During the absence of Dr. Kapur on leave the officiating arrangement made 
in the above mentioned order will continue . 

G. H. Singh , 
Asstt . Secretary ( Home) to the Govt. of Manipur . 


PART 1 

Imphal, the 16th May , 1955 . 
No. D /Arms/ 4 /54.- The following notification is published for general information , 

T. Kipgen , 

Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur , 
The Government of Manipur are pleased to exempt the officers of the Central 
Excise and sound Customs Department of the Shillong Collectorate , stationed in the 
Manipur State who may be treated us public servants for ths purposes of sec . 
1 (b ) of the Indian Arms Act (Act XI of 1878 ) 1878, from the prohibitions and 
directions of the Arins. Act, in respect of the Arms and Ammunition which they 
may be allowed to hear or pussess for protection in the execution of their duty 
according to the scale laid down by the Government of India . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 23 , 1985 . 


3 


NOTIFICATION. 


Imphal, the 17th May , 1958 . 
Whereas I am of opinion as the result of an enquiry held into the constitution , 
working and financial condition of the Ngurte Villagers Co -operative Society Ltd. 
(Regd . No. 116 of 1948-49 ) in Manipur under Sub - section ( 1) of section 36 of 
tho Co -operative Societies Act II of 1912 that the society ought to be dissolved . 

Now , in exercise of the power conferred by Sub -section (1 ) of section 39 of 
the same Act, I hereby cancel the Registration of the said society . 

And further in exercise of the power conferred by Sub - section (1 ) of section 42 
of the same Aot, I hereby appoint Mr. Haokholal Thangjom , laspector, C.S. (Hill ) 
to be liquidator of the said society . 
All claims against the dissolved society must be submitted 

be submitted to the liquidator 
within one month of the publication of the Notice . 


Imphal, the 20th May , 1955 . 
Whereas I am of opinion as the result of an enquiry held into the constitution , 
working and financial coudition of the Maibam Leikai Co-operative Society Ltd. 
(Regd . No. 24 of 1951-52) in Manipur uuder Sub -section (1) of suctiou 33 of the 
Co -operative Sucieties Act II of lule that the society ought to be dissolved . 

Now , in exercise of the powor couferred by sub - section ( 1) of section 39 of 
the same Act, I hereby cancel tbe Registration of the said society . 

And further in exercise of the power coaforrad by Sub -section ( 1) of section 42 
of the same Act, I hereby appoint Shri Th . Ibobi Singh Inspector, C. S. to be 
Jiquidator of the said society . 

All claims against two dissolved society must be submitted to the liquidator 
within one month of the publicati in of the Notice. 

K. G. Singh , 
Assistant Registrar , 
Co -operative bocieties, Manipur . 


NOTIFICATION No. TM / 10 /55,5 . 

Dated , Shillong the 13th May , 1955 . 
SUBJECT :-Redesignation of the existing Major Head , “ 63 - B . Community 

Development Projects " , as “ 63- B . Community Development Projeots, 

National Extension Service and Local Development Works” . 
It is hereby notified for the information and guidance of all the Treasury Officers and Sub 
Treasury Officers in A ssam , Tripura and Manipur that the President has approved the redo 
signation of the existing major bead , " 63 B - Community Development Projects ", in Seotion 
" M - Extraordinary items" as " 63- B . Community Development Projects, National Extension 
Service and Looal Developmont Works” and to the opening of a new major head 
in section . " M -Extra - ordinarry items" , LIA - Receipts on account of Community Develop 
ment Projects , National Extension Service and Local Development Works " on the 
receipts side also . 

The President has also sanctioned the opening of tbree Sub -major beads , ( i) Commo 
nity Development Projects , ( ii) National Extension Service and (iii) Lyoal Davelopment 
Works, under the new major heads referred to above , both on the receipts and 
expenditure sides so as to accon , modate the receipts and expenditure on the three 
sobemes mentioned above. The new major heads and sub -major heads sanctio nad 
will be operative from the financial year , 1955-56 . 

N. C. Nandi, 
Assistant Accounts Officer . 


MANİPUR GAZETTE , MAY 25 , 1985 . 


NOTIFICATION No. TM 10 : 55 : 4 . 


Dated , Shillong, the 23rd April, 1955 . 
Subject : Refund of sobolarsbip amounts , retains to the Scheduled Castes , 

Scheduled Tribes and other Backward classes scholarship scheme. 
The undishu , sed amounts of the scholarship to the Scheduled Castes , Scheduled 
Tribes and other Backward classes students sanctioned of the Government of India , 
Ministry of Education initially debited to the head , " 37 Education E . General 
Misc - Grant of scholarships to scheduled castes , Sebeduled Tribes and other back 
ward classes (Central) when deposited outo Covirnment, account by the Educational 
Institutions witbin the same financial 

ear aru to buy aljusted as reduction of 
expenditure under the head mentioned above . lf suck undisbursed 

if such undisbursed amounts arc 
credited into trousuries in Assam , Tripura and Manipur with chalan indicating the 
head mentionu.i above, the amounts tendered should be accepted by Treasury Oflicers 
and included in the schedule of exchange Accounts with A. G. C. R. 


X. C. Nandi , 
Assistant Accounts Officer . 


PART IV 


are 


hours 


NOTICE No. 4 / 5-56 . 

Imphal, the 21st May , 1955 . 
Sealed tenders with sealed samples for the supply of approximately 70 (seventy ) 
to 80 (eighty ) maunds of send paddy of the variety Phouren Phou hereby 
invited and will be received at the office of thy under signed during office 
upto the 31st May , 1955 . 

The paddy will havo to be free from dirt and other foreign matter and pure 
with it germination capacity of not less than 90 % . The prices ten lered should be 
per muund without bags which will be returnable after distribution of the paddy . 
The successful tenderer will have to deposit ten per cent of the value of the seeds 
as earnest money aud execute an agreement to the offect that the paddy will be 
delivered witbin a week from the date of exeulin of the agreement. The etrnost 
money will be forfeited in the event or failure to fulfil the cubiract. 

The undersigoed does not bind himself to accept the lowest or any tender. ID 
or any dispute the decision of the undersigned shall be final. 


case 


1 


N. K. Das , 
Director of Agriculture , Manipur . 


NOTICE . 


Imphal, the 24th May , 1956 . 
No. 43 /CS / II /54-55 .- t is hereby notified for general information that, pursuant 
to section 9 of the Co -operative Soci... ies Act II of 19 2. the Brahmpur More 
Weavers Co -operative Producti n and Sule Society Ltd. 

Sule Society Ltd. has been registered and 
numbered as 43 of 1954-55 dated the sixtcenth May , of the year one thousand 
nino bundred and fifty five Anno Domini. 

R. G. Singh , 
Assistant Registrar, 
Co -operative Societies, Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 25 , 1955 . 


5 


TECHNICAL EDUCATION - SCHOLARSHIPS FOR STUDENTS FROM MANIPUR . 

no institutions in Manipur State for technical and professional 
education , it has been decided to assist men and women students from Minipur 
State to undergo such education in institutions outside the State by the grant of a 
oertain number of scholarsbips in deserving cases . The courses now under considera 
tion are degree or diploma courses in an University or other recognised institution 
in Medicine, Nursing , Evgineering , Forestry , Agriculture , Veterinary , Science , Com 
merce and Law , but applications for other technical cours.. may also be considered 
on their merits . The minimum educational qualification to the degree 

Courses is 
generally the l. Sc. and for diplonia courses, Matriculation . Many institutions pro 
viding rurh courses have made special reservation of sats in favour of members 
of Scheduled Tribes and Tribal students are specially advised to state in their 
applications for adı : ission to the institutions that they are members of Scheduled 
Tribes. The students themselves are expected to obtain direct from the institutions 
particulars of the courses offered and to submit the applications in th :: forms required , 
hut in case they are sent ourly enough throuyh the Secretary to the Governmout , 
Home Department, Government of Manipur, Imphal, the applications will be for 
warded with suitable ricommendations in each case. Scholarships will be granted 
only to those students who secure admission but students who wish to bo consi 
dered for scholarships are udvised to send in tbeir applications for scholarships 
even at the time of seeking admission to the institutions, and in any case not 
later than 15th June 1955 , addressed to the Secretary to Government, llome Dept. 
Govt. of Manipur , Imphal, with the following particulars -- ( 1 ) Name of student, ( 2 ) Age , 
( 3 ) Ilighest esamination passed ( Name of Colluge or Schoul, year of examination and class 
obtained should be given ), (4 ) List of Marks, if available , (5 ) Course for which 
scholarship is applied for,(6 )Institution ( s)and course (s ) for which application (s) for admission 
hos /have been subraitted and whether admission has already been secured , ( 7 ) Length 
of course proposed ( in years ). (8 ) Annual financial assistance required to prosecute 
the study , ( 9 ) Annual income of father or guardian , ( 10 ) Residential address , 
(11 ) Community and whether member of a Scheduled Tribe and ( 12 ) Any other 
particulars which the candidate wants to be considered in his favour. Applications. 
will also be considered from students who are already undergoing courses in 
technical institutions and are in noud of financial assistance . The names of some of 
the technical institutions where Manipuri students are studying 

likely to 
secure admission are given below but there are various other institutions offering 
suitable courses and students are advised to apply to the institutions direct . 

( 1 ) Assam Civil Engineering Institute , Gauhati, (2 ) Indian Institute of Techno 
logy. Kharagpur, ( 8 ) Prince of Wales Institute of Engineering and Technology . 
Jorhat , (4 ) Bengal Eagineering College, Howrah , (5 ) Jadavpur Engineoring Comogo , 
Calcutta , (6 ) Gajra Raja Medical College , Gwalior , ( 7 ) Sawai Mau Singh Medical 
College, Jaipur, (8 ) Assam Medical College, Dibrugarh , ( 9 ) Darbhanga Medical College , 
Bibar , (10 ) Medical College , Agra , ( 11 ) Medical College , Amritsar , ( 19 ) Andhra Medical 
Collego, Vizagapatnam , (13) Madras Medical ( ollege , Madrus , (14 ) Mahatma Gandhi 
Memorial Medical College , Indore , ( 15 ) R. G. Kar -Michael Medical College , Caloutta , 
(16 ) Calcutta Medical College , Calcutta , (17) Lacy Harding Medical College , New Delhi, 
( 19 ) College of Nursing , New Delhi, ( 19 ) Stanley Medical College , Madras , ( 20 ) Sir 
John Anderson Health School, Calcutta , (21) T. B. Hoalth Visitors Course Delhi T. 
B. Centre, Delhi. (22 ) Singur Health Training Centre Calcutta , ( 25 ) Indian Forest 
College , Dehra Dun (Diploma Course), (24 ) Indian Forest Rangers College, Dehra 
Dua , ( 25 ) Indian Forest College, Coimbatore , ( 26 ) Assam Veterinary College , Gauhati, 
(27) Bengal Veterinary College, Calcutta (28 ) College of Veterinary Science and 
Animal Husbandry , Osmania University , Hyderabad, Deccan - 7 , ( 29 ) Central College 
of Agriculture I. O. A. R , New Delhi, (30 ) Assam Agriculture College , Jorhat and 
( 31) Engineering College, Annamalainagar . 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


or 


are 


MANIPUR GAZET IE , MAY 25 , 1968 . 


NOTICE . 

Imphal, the 24th May , 1955 . 
No. 44 /C8/11/ 64-55 .-- It is hereby notified for general information that, pursuant 
to section 9 of the Co -operative Societies Act II of 1912, the Brabmpur l humbu 
tbong Oil Crushing Industry C. $ . Ltd. has been registered and numbered as 44 
of 1954-57 dated the eighteenth May , of the year one thousand nine hundred and 
fifty five Anno Donini. 

K. G. Singh , 
Assistant Registrar, 
Co-operative Societies , Manipur . 


Tender Notice No. ) . 


Impbal, the 18th May , 1955 . 
Sealed tenders with simples are invited for supply of the followiog articles for 
the use in the Government Sericultural Station , Chingmeirong and will be received 
by the undersigned upto 12 noon of 3-6-55 and opened on the same date beforo 
the tenderers. The successful tenderers will have to deposit 10 % of the accepted 
amount as caution money which will be rofunded after the completion and acceptence 
of the supply of articles . There is no obligation to accept the lowest tender or 
any tender and to asign any reason thereof. 

The supply is to be completed within 10 days from the date of signing the 
agroement . Necessury particulars may be had froni tbis office during office hours . 
S. No. Particulars . 

Quantity required . 
] . 

Tumila ( plants ifft. height ) with suitable 
root per 100 plants . 

1,000 . 
Nongnangkori ( plants ift . height) with 
suitable root per 100 plants . 

1,000 


2 . 


U. M. Sinha , 
Director of Iodustries, Manipur. 


CORRIGENDUM . 

Imphal, the 16th May , 1955. 
Read " Executive Engineer, Manipur " for " Principal Engineering Officer, Manipur " 
occuring in Manipur Government Home and Development Departments order No. 
PW /Misc /52/55 dated the 21st July 1954 regarding the appointment of Embank 
ment officer for Manipur . 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary (Home) to the Govt . of Manipur . 


Imphal, the 21st May , 1955 . 
The words " The Tungjoi Agricultural Credit Society Ltd ” . occuring in the 2nd 
and 3rd line of my notice No. 41/ CS /II/54-56 dt , 5-5-55 published in the Manipur 
Gazette No. 10 of 11-5-85 at page 9 should read as • The Tungjoi Agricultural 
Co -operative Credit Society Unlimited " . 

K. G. Singh , 

Assistant Registrar , 
Cu -uperalive Socirties, Maripur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 28 , 1939 . 


7 


নিলাম নােটিশ নং ৩। 

ং ১৯।৫।৫৫ ইং । 
অসিনা ময়ম ওইদুনা মণিপুরগী প্রজা পুমা খঙহন্নি । মরমদি : -মখাদা ইরিবা পাটাগ লমশিং অলি পাটাদার 
শিনা পাং চাবদা পূহৌবা পাশেলগীদমক কোক তৌবা ফলে । লমশিং অসি মশােইনা তােদর পাশেল আদায় 
ভৌনবগম তাং ২১৬৫৫ ইং লৈবাকপােকপা মিৎকী নুংথিল পুং ১ তাবদা ডিপুটি কমিশনার আফিসদা নিলাম 
তৌহনা মােনদা নিলাম ওকপিরনবা খনি। 

নিলাম অলি আসাম লেণ্ড রেভিনিউ রেগুলেসনগী সেকসন ৯১ বর্গ নিয়ম মতুং ইন্না তৌগনি । নিলাম ভৌরি 
আফিসানা খাইদ চাও দাগ নগা করিগুৰা দাগ অমা লৌদবসু য়াই । 


হৌজিক মিং পানি পাাদারগী মিং অমসুং লৈবাকীজায় কেশ নং 


পাঠা নং ১৭ং পানা এরিয়া 

লোমশিং 


লম লৈরি 
বগি মমি 


৪৭/১৮৯ ই বেষ্ট 


৬ লে : চীংঙামখা ক্ষেত্র 

লৈকাই ইংখােল 


লাইথংবম ইবােতােৰীসিং পিং মৃঃ অঙাতােনসি 

সাং চীংঙামখা 


? 


৬,২৬ 
১৯৫২/৫৩ 


মুয়াম অঙেৰিীসিং সাং খাশমে 


৬ / ৪৮-৪৯ 


১ • / ৬১৯ অহ : 


৩১৫ লেঃ শখেন, খা লৌ 


১১/১৮ লাই: 


১১৪ লে : ইংখােল, ঙ্গৈ 


নিংঙোমবম দামুসিং, সুংগৈ 


২১ / ৪৭-৪৮ 


২১৯ লেঃ 


১১/১০২ 


১/১৮ লে : লৌ 
৪১৭ লে : লেন 


১৬/৬০৩ 


১০/১৭ লো 


তােয়াই মিয়া পি : ইব্রাহিম সাং বিলােং 


তুরেল অহনবী 


৩২৫৬৬ 


৩/১৭ সে অখােকপম 


২/১৭ লে : 
দাগ ২২৫৫ শুবগ নােচুপ 

থংবা জংখাই 


অকোইম চাওতোনসিং পিং চামচা সিংহ 
সাং অথােকপম 


৩২/৪০৭ । 


৪৬-৪৭ 


২০/২২২ ) 


১ • লে : হওগা মনিং লেই 


লিশম ইবােভােন সিংহ পিং শাসিং সাং 
হাগা মনিং 


৪ / ৫৪-৫৫ 


R. C. Deb Chowdhury , 
Deputy Commissioner , Manipur . 


ননাটিফিকেশন । 


ইক্ষাল , ২০-৫-৫৫ ইং 


অসিনা মরম ওইদুনা ইম্ফাল ইট অমসুং ইন্দাল ওয়েষ্ট তহশিল অনিগী এলাকা মংদা লৈ দৌ -ইংখােল চা 
প্রজা পুমা খংহঞ্জৈ । মরমদিশােক ১৯৫৪৫৫ গী তােলহেরি খাজনা লেখৎনবগীদমক আসাম লেণ্ড অমসুং রেভিনিউ 
রেগুলেসনগী ধারা ৭০ শুবগী মতুং ইন্না থবক পাইখলগনি । খাজনা ততল্পিবা পাটানিং অদু মথা হাইরি ধারা 
অসিগী নিয়ম মইনা মােন প্রােশেস চৎপা হোয়গনি অমসুং তাং ১১৬৫৫ ইংদগী হোনা পাটা খুদিংগী মহৌশাগ 
জরিমানাগী মথ লুপা ১১ প্রােসেশ ফি ওইনা সৌরগনি । ইতি 


শ্রীগৌরচন্দ্ৰসিংহ , 
সব-ভিটি কলেক্টর , ইম্ফাল ইষ্ট অমসুং ইন্টাল ওয়েষ্ট । 

GRO18lae 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 26 , 1955 . 


NOTICE . 


Imphal, the 24th May, 1958 . 
No. 45 /C8/11/54-5.7. - It is hereby notified for yeneral information that, pursuant 
to section 9 of the Co -operative Societies Act II of 1912 , the Sambei Chingkhu 
Haraorow Agricultural Co- isperative Credit Society Unlimited lias been registered and 
numbered as 45 of 1954-55 dated the 20th May , of the year 

one thousand nine 
hundred and fifty five Anno Domini. 

K. G. Singh , 
Assistant Registrar . 
Co -operative Societies , Manipur. 


Inphal, the 21st May , 7955 . 
Applications addressed to the Inspector of Schouls , Manipur, Staling age educa 
tional qualifications, provious experience , if any are invited for the temporary post, 
of Assistant teacher of Juhostone High School at the pay scale of Rs. 100-10-130 
EB -ti-190 -EB- 10-200 /- p.m. with usual D.A. and will be received by the undersigned 
on or before 8th June, 1955. In case of married candidates no , of wives living 
should be inentioned . Minimum qualification required is B.A. or B.Sc. of a ricoge 
nised University . 

II. N. Singh , 

Head Master , 
Johostone High School . 


impbel :-Printed and published by the Superintendent Government Press O. 205 /25-5-55. 


Manipur 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 13 - E -5 


Imphal, Tuesday , May 31 , 1956 . 


( OVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissionor . 


NOTIFICATIONS 

IMI NAL, CHE 31st May , 1956 . 
No. CS/2 /55.-- Government of India , Ministry of Food & Agrioulture, Order No. 
PYI1-653( 30 )/56 dated the 28th May , 1955 is reproduced below for general information . 

A. K. Ray, 

Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
MINISTRY OF FOOD ANI) AGRICULTURE . 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 28th May, 1935 . 
SRO . In exercise of the Power- conferred by section 5 of the Essential 
Commodities Act , 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ), the Central Government hereby directs that 
the powers conferred on it by sub - section ( 1) of section 3 of the said Act to pro 
vide for matters specified in Clauses ( d ) , (h ), ( i) and ( j) of sub -section ( 2 ) thereof 
shall , in relation to the regulation by licenses , permits or otherwise the transport 
of paddy , rice or any products thereof, be exorcisable also by the Chief Commissioner , 
Manipur State, subject to the condition that before making any order relating to 
any 

matter specified in claus9 (d ) of tho said sub- section ( 2) , the Chief Commissioner 
eball obtain the prior concurrence of the Central Government. 


Sd / - A. Zaman , 
Joint Secretary to the Govt . of India . 

No. PYII- 683( 30 )/55. 


Imphal, the 31st May , 1955 . 
No. CS / 3 / 55.- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955 ) and with the previous concurrence of tbe Central 
Government, the Chief Commissioner of Manipur is pleased to make the following Order : 

Manipur Foodgrains (Movement) Control Order , 1955 . 
1. Short title , commencement and application . 

(a ) This Order may be called the " Manipur Foodgrains (Movement) Control 

Order , 1955. 

(b ) It shall come into force forthwith and extend to the whole of Manipur . 
2. Definitions . 
( 1) " Foodgrains” for the purpose of this order means “ Rice , paddy and produets" 

thereof. 
(2) " Rice and paddy products " inolude Chira , Muri, Khoi, Broken rice and 

any article whatsoever which originally comes from paddy excepting husk 
and bbusi. 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAY 31 , 1956 . 


4 . 


3. (a ) No person shall export or attempt to export any Foodgrains from Manipur 
to any place outside Manipur, except under and in accordance with a permit issued 
by the State Government or any officer authorised by the State Government in 
this behalf . 

(6 ) No person shall transport , attempt to transport, cause to be transported 
or offer for transport any Foodgrains into the urea of the State lying to the north 
of the village Kangpukpi except under and in accordance with a permit issued by 
the State Government in this behalf. 

Provided nothing in clause (a ) and (b ) above shall apply to the export or trans 
port of Foodgrains - 

(i) not exceeding five seers in weight in aggregate by a bonafide tre 

veller as a part of his luggage . 
( ii ) or. Government account. 

(iii) under and in accordance with Military credit notes. 

Any Policu Officer not below the rank of Assistant Sub -Inspector and any 
other person authorised in this behalf by the State Government may with a view 
to securing compliance with this order 
(* ) stop , search , or authoriso any person to stop and search 

search any person , 
boat, inotor or any veliicle or receptacle used or capablu of being used for the 
transport of Foodgrains ; 

(h ) onter rod search or authorise any person to enter and search any placa . 

(c ) seize or authorisc the seizure of any article in respeot of which he suspects 
that a contravention of this Order has been , is being or is about to be committed 
along with the packages, coverings or receptacles in which such article is found 
or the animals , vehicles , Vessels or conveyauces used in carrying such article 
and thereafter take or authorise the taking of all the 

necessary for 
securing the production of the articles , packages, coverings , receptacles or animals , 
vehicles , vessels , or conveyances so seized , in a court and for their safe custody 
pending such production . 

5. If any person contravenes the provisions of this Order, then without pre 
judico te any other punishment to which he may be liable the court may direct : 

( a ) that any property in respect of which the offenou bas been committed 
or a part thereof shall be forfeited to the Government ; 

(b ) that the packages , coverings or receptacles in which any property liablo 
to be forfeitod has been found and the animals , vehicles , vessels or the conveyances 
used in carrying the said articles shall be forfeited to Governnent. 

Provided that no court shall doeloso any shoh package, covering or recep 
tacle or any such animal, vehicle , vessel or other conveyance forfeited to Government 
unless it is proved that the owner thereof knew that the offense was being or 
was to be or was likely to be committed . 


measures 


A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur : 


Topbal :-Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Prom . 6. 880784-5-65 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


मयमेव 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 14 


Imphal, Wednesday , June 1 , 1956 . 


CONTENTS 


Pago 


Page 


1 


Part 1. - Appointments , Postings , Transfers , Powers , 

Leave and other personal notices, 
Part II.- Rosolutions, Regulations, Orders, Notifi 

cations, Rules etc. 


Part III . - Orders, Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Noticos etc. 


6 to 7 
7 to 9 


1 to 5 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 24th May , 1955 . 
No. I-MD /61/51/225 .-- The Chief Commissioner is pleased to appoint Dr. Abdul 
Ali temporarily as Asstt . Surgeon I in the Medical Department , Manipur in the 
pay scale of Rs. 200-10-250-15-400 - EB - 20-500 /- p.m. This order will take offect from 
the date of issue of the order . 


FORM T. R. 1 . 
Cortificate of Transfor of Charge . 

Imphal, the 26th May , 1955. 
Certified that we have in the forenoon of this day respectively made over and 
received charge of the office of the Publicity Oflicer, Manipur. 

Signature of relieved Officer Gourhari Singh , 
Station Imphal. 

Designation 
Date 26-5-1955 . 

Signature of relieving Officer S. Gopendia Sarma, 
Dusignation 


Imphal, the 25th May, 1955 . 
No. AGR /113 /54 .-- The Chief Commissioner is pleased to grant earned 
for 104 ( bundrod and four days ) only from the : 6th March 1965 to Shri 
L. Udbob Singh , Agricultural Officer, Manipur. 

G. H. Siogh , 
Asstt. Secretary (Home) to the Govt . of Manipur. 


PART 1 


Imphal, the 28th May , 1955 . 
No. I-CO /27 /54. – Until Shri P. C. Sharma Bordoloi joins as Assistant Registrar 
Co -operative Societies the Chief Commissioner is pleased to allow · Shri Upondra 
Mohon Singh , Director of Judustries to work as drawing and disbursing officer of 
Co-operative Department. He may carry out this normal office works also . 

6. H. Singh , 
Asstt . Secretary (Home) to the Govt. of Manipur . 


MANIPUP. GAZETTE , JUNE 1 , 1955 . 


Imphal, the 24th May, 1955 . 
No. F - DPC /2 /53 /257-8 .-- In continuation of this Secretariat Order No. DPC / 82 /63 
dated 7-7-53 the Chief Commissioner is pleased to sunction continuance of the 
temporary post of the Project Executive Officer, 1 houbal Community Development . 
Block from the 1st March , 1955 to the 9th February , 1935 and the appointment 
thereto of Shri K. Lamphel Singh , the present incumbent of the post till further 
orders . 


Imphal, the 24th May, 1955 . 
No. F - DPC / 2 /53/259-60 . - In continuation of this Secretariat Order No. DPC / 2 /53 
dated 7-5-53 , the Chief Commissioner is pleased to sanction continuance of the 
temporary post of Supervisor of the Thoubal Community Development Black from 
the lst April , 1956 to the 29th February , 1956 and the appointment thereto of 
Bbri D. K. Tlome, the present incumbent of the post till further orders. 


Imphal, the 24th May , 1955 . 
No. F -DPC /2 /53 261-2 . - In continuation of this Secretariat Order No. DPC / 2 /53 
dated 25-5-7: 3 the Cbief Commissionor is pleased to sanction continuance of the 
two temporary posts of Supervisors of the Thyubil Community Development Blick 
from the 1st March , 1953 to the 29th February , 1951; and the appointmout thereto 

Shri S. Tombi Singh , and Sbri A. Nilmani Singhi , the present incumbents of 
the posts till further orders . 


of 


Imphal , the 24th May . 1950 . 
No. F - DPC / 2 /53 /263-4 . - In continuation of this Secretariat Order No. DPC / 2 /53/ 150 
dated 2 !! - 3-54 , the Chief Commissioner is pleased to sinction continuance of the 
temporary post of Supervisor of the Thoubal Community Development Block from 
the 1st March , 195.7 10 the 9th February , 1956 and the appointment thereto of 
Shri P. Chauba Singhi , the present incumbent of the post till further orders . 


Imphal, the 24th May , 1955 . 
No. F - DPC /2 /53 /265.6 . - In continuation of this Secretariat Order No. DPC / 2 /53 / 164 
dated 19-5-54 , the Chief Commissioner is pleased to sanction continuance of the 
temporary post of Supervisor of the Thoubal Community Development Block from 
the 1st March , 1955 to the 29th February , 1956 and the appointment thereto of 
Shri Chandrakumar Sharma, the present incumbent of the post till further orders . 


H. R. Singh , 
Asstt. Secretary (Dov ) . to tha Govt. of Manipur . 


Imphal, the 31st May , 1955 . 
No. FA /93 /51. - In exercise of the powers conferred by para 3 of tue General 
Financial Rules Vol. I and in partial modification of the Chief Commissioner s 
order issued under Manipur Secretariat Notification No. F.1 /93 /51/ 32 dated 14.10 53 
the Assistant Secretary to the Government of Manipur in the leveule and Finance 
Departments is declared as the Head of Office fur Manipur Government Secretariat 
with effoct from 31-5-56 . 

A. K. Ray, 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 1 , 196.). 


Imphal, the 26th May , 1955 . 
No. J / 26 /51. – The rules frau.ed by the Judicial Commissioner, Manipur under 
the Article 277 of the Constitutiou of India read with section 6 ( lv ) of the Judicial 
Commissioner s Courts ( Declaration as High Courts ) Act, 1950 in respeot of Appeals 
and applications to be filed before the court of the Judicial Commissioner, Manipur 
are published for general informa !ion . 

A. K. Ray , 

Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 
APPEALS AN :) APPLICATIONS . 
Rules framed under Art 227 of the constitution of India road with section 6 (b ) of the 
Judicial Commissionmi s Courts ( Declaration as lliglı Courts ) Act 1950. Thoy shall come 
in force with immedizte effect . 

1. ( 1 ) Every memoranduin of appeals or objection and every application shall 
bear the general huadin : - 

“ In the court of the Judicial Commissoiner , Manipur , Imphal. 
( 2 ) Fevery nemorandum of Appeal or () bjection or Application for Review 

or Revision shall immediately below the title , have endorsed on it 
• First Appeal " Seco : d Appeal ” , Appol frum Order or “ Revision " 

or " Application for Review " as the case may be and shall state . 
( 1 ) The names father s name and in the case « f a female husband s name 

and full postal address of each appellaut or application ; 
( 2 ) The nam : father s name and in the case of female husband s naine and 

full postal address of each Respondent . 
2. Every memorandum of Appeal or Objection and every application shall be 
in the language of the court and shall set out oncisely in numbered paragraphs 
the facts upon which the applicant relies and the ground upon which the court is 
asked to grant the relief and shall conclude with a prayer stating clearly as far as 
circumstances permits the exact nature of the relief sought . 

3. Every application made in pending case shall state the section and the Act 
or the Rul ! under which it is made . 

4. Eevery memorandum of appeal or application for Review or Revision shall 
state 

( a ) The name and full a idress of the appellant or applicant and whetber 

he was plaintiff or defoudant or applicant or opposite party in the 

court of the first instance ; 
( b ) The name and full address of each persja whom it is proposed to 

join as respondent or opposite purty and whether he was plaintiff or 
defendant or applicant or opposite party in the cuurt of tire torst 

instancy ; 
( c ) The aime of the court by which and the namy of the presiding officer 

by whom , the deere , or order objected to was made ; 
( d ) The number and description of tho CABH ; 
( e ) The date wben the deore e or order was made ; 
( 1 ) The grunds, numbered consecutively , of objection to such decree or 

order ; 
( g ) The precise relief sought for ; and 
( b ) Value for purposes of ( 1 ) jurisdiction and ( 2 ) Court foes shall be 

sinned by the appellant or applioant as the case may be or on his 
behalf by an ad vocatu or pleader on the roll of the court. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 1 , 1968 . 


5. Every memorandum of appeal or application for Revision or Review sball 
be accompanied by 

( a ) A copy of the decree or formal order agzinst which the appeal or 

application is presented ; 
( b ) copy of the judgment upon which such decree or order is formed ; 
( c ) A copy of the judgment of the curt of first instance where the 

appeal or application is directed against un appellate decree or order . 
( d ) In the case of a nemorandum of appeal which is filed after the expiry 

of the period of limitation , an application supported by an affidavit 
for extension of the period of limitation under section 5 of the Indian 

limitation Act , 1908 . 
6. ( 8 ) Every memorandum of appeal or objection and every application shall 

be accompanied by as many typed copies thereof as there may be 
parties to by served . Such copies shall be certified to be correct by 

the party or his advocate . 
( b ) When a memorandum of appeal or application is not in proper form 

or is not accompanied by the requisite copies of paper tbe Registrar 
may allow time within which such memorandum must be amended 
or the necessary papers filed or may lay the paper before the court 
for order ; provided that nothing contained into this role shall have 

tbe effect of extending the period of limitation . 
( c ) If the requisite copies are not supplied within such time of within 

such further time as may be , for sufficient cause shown , allowed by 
thu Registrar, the memorandum of appeal or application shall be listed 

for rejection before the court. 
7. ( a ) The following application shall be supported by an affidavit – 
( i ) An appliontion for review made on the ground of the discovery of new 

and importwt matter or evidence or any other sufficient reason ; 
( ii ) An application for stay of execution or proceedings ; 
( iii ) An application for the vacating of an order for stay ; 
( iv ) An application for security , including an application under Rule 6 or 

10 of the order XLI of the code ; 
( v ) An application for attachment before judgment or injunction or any other 

application under order XXXVIII or XXXIX of the code ; 
( vi ) An application for the appointment or discharge of a receiver ; 
( vii ) An application for the re -admission or restoration of an appeal or applica 

tion dismissed for default of appearance or for want of prosecution or for 

the setting aside of an ex - parto decree . 
( viii ) An application for substitution of parties including and application under 

Rule 3 ( 1 ) or 4 ( 1 ) or order XXII of the code or for a note to be made 
on the record that the legal representation of the deceased party is already 

the record or that a party has died without having any legal 

representative. 
( ix ) An application for the appointment or removal of a guardian ad litom or 

next friend 
( x ) An application under rule 12, 13, 14 or 15 of under XXXII of the code ; 
( xi ) An application for transfer of a case including an applio ition under 

Suction 22 of the code ; 


R. K. Bhaskar Singh of Wangkci Leikai, Police Station Imphal, oposite party . 

MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 1 , 1955 . 
( xii ) An application praying that a person be punished for contempt of 

court ; 
( xii ) An application by way of coroplaint ajainst a legal practitioner ; 
( xiv ) Au application under section 5 of the Indian Limitation Act, 1908. 

( xv ) Au application for the setting aside of an alatement ; 
( xvi ) Any other application setting out facis in the basis vf which an order 

is sought ; 
( xvii ) Any application which is required by thesc Rules or by any other law to 

be supported by an affidavit . 
( b ) The court or the Registrar may call for an allidavit in any other matter 

cumning up befora it or him . 
8 . A priyer for stay of oxecution or proceedinys or for the vacating of an 
order staying execution or proceedlings or for admitting additional evidence or for 
any other order of an interlocuto y nature shall not be contained in the meino 
randum of appenl or the application for Revision to which it relates but shall be 
made by a separate application . 

9. No copy of sl judgmen , decres formal order accompanying a memu 
randum of appeal 

application for revision shall be returned unless such 
memorandum or application itself is ordered to be returned . 

BRI NARAIN , 

Judicial Commissioner for Manipur. 
Imphal, tbe 31st May, 1955 . 
IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL COMMISSIONER FOR MANIPUR , 

Insolvency Case No. 11 of 1953 . 
Nahakpain Gourabidhu Singh , slo late Liklui Singh of Bamdiar village , Pulice 
Station - Impbnl. 

...Petitioner 
Versus . 


or 


un 


Subject :-Petition for adjudication as insolvent under section 10 of the Provincial 

Insolvency Act . 


Copy of thu order passed by the Judicial Commissioner on 24-5-55 in the above 
noted Case . 

ORDER 
The present petition is allowed and Vabakp in 

im Gourabidhu Singh is adjudicated 
insolvent and his assets shall vest in the Receiver wbo will proceed to deal with 
them aocording to law . Shri Koijam Rohinikumar Singh , Plauder in appointed Receiver 
in this case . He will get 5 % of the realisation towards his fees . 
The insolvent is allowed six months time to apply for discharge . 

Brij Narain . 
Judicial Cowmissioner . 

21-0-56 . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 1, 1988 . 


8 


PART UI 

Imphal, the 24 May , 1953. 
No. C /HDE: 5 /55 /68 - The following letter No. F. 5 (1) /56-5.1 dated the 13th May , 
1956 received from the Secretary to the Govt. of India , Ministry of Education , 
New Delhi is republished for general information . 

T. Kipgen , 

Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 
Ministry of Education , 

( SCHOLARSHIPS AND INFORMATION DIVISION ) 
SUBJECT : 

Particulars regarding 3 scholarships offered to Indian nationals by the 

Government of Italy . 
The Government of Italy have offered 3 scholarships t «nable in Italy for 
period of one yoar during 1975-76 to Indian nationals including . 

(a ) Scholars desiring advanced post -graduate study/research work / specialised 
practical training in the following fields : 

( i) Any engineering or techvological field . 
( ü ) Any basic Science or Art subject . 

( ii) Education etc. 
( b ) Artists who wish to complete their outlook in contact with Italian 

surroundiags . 
( c) Techniciaus who wish to specialise at Agricultural institutes (for vine 

growing , olive - iron growing , tobacco growing etc. ), Industrial Institutes 
(for textiles, graphic arts , chemicals etc.) and Experimental Centres (for 

the growiug of rice and grains ). 
Scholarships are meant for postgraduate studies/ Research work and advanood 
practical training in the fields anumerated above. Those possessing the Master s 
degree in Arts/Science /Education or a degrue in Engineering / Agriculture/ Technology or 
diplomu in Art are eligible to apply . 

Preference will be given to the cendidates knowing Italian . Candidates knowing 
French will also be considered favourably . University studies 

November 
laut , 1956 and the selected candidates would be expected to leave for Italy in the 
first week of Octob : r . While selecting the candidates , such personal qualities as make 
him / her specially fit for promotion of international understanding would be considered 
as a peco.jBary qualification . 

The value of the scholarship is 50,000 Lire per mensem (Rs. 382 approx ). In 
Addition selected scholars will receive an allowance of 10,000 Lire ( Hs. 76 approx ) 
for any other expenses which they might have to incur in Italy . 

University fees wbich the scholar may be required to pay will als ) be refunded 
to them . 


On 


Ser passage expenses by 2nd / Tourist class from India to Italy and back will be 
provided by the Government of India to the selected scholars. 
The candidates are required to send the following along with their applicaties : 

(i) Two pass - port size photographs with the signature of the candi. 

dater on the reverse . 
(ii) Attested copies of certificates /diplomas/degrees in respect of the 

qualification claimed (not returnable ). 
( iii ) Detailed programme of study which the candidate intends to 

undertake in Italy . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 1, 1956 . 


(iv ) The curriculum of studies already completed . 
( v ) Health certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner that 

the candidate is of suund physiqal constitution . 
Prescribed application forms etc. can be hnd from the Ministry of Education 
( Scholarships and inforination Division ) Section 8/1 New Delhi, The last date for 
the receipt of applications in the Ministry of Education is 20th June , 1055 . No 
application will be considered without a fae of Rs. 5 ( Rs. 1 / 4 / - in the 
Scheduled Oates , Scheduled Tribes and Other Buckward Classes) which should be sent 
through the postal order along with application in favour of the Ministry of 
Education , Government of India , New Delhi. 


QA80 of 


Name . 


PART IV 

NOTICE . 

Imphal, the 28th May , 1955 . 
Applications are invited for 2 posts of temporary Lower Division Assistants in 
the Imphal Treasury Establishment in the scale of Rs . 40-2-50 (EB ) -3-80 (EB )-4-100 / 
per month plus Assam rates of D.A. Applicant- should know typing and should be at 
least Matriculate . The application should state the following information . 

1 . 
2. Father s name. 
3. Address . 
4. Educational qualification - supported by certificate . 
5 . Whether married , if so how many wife. 

6 . Age -supported liy certificate . 
The application should reach the under signed on or before the 11th June , 1955 , 
care of Treasury Officer , Imphal. 

Sb / Elligible 

A. I ) , C. 
for Deputy Commissioner, Manipur . 

( Treasury . ) 
Impbal, the 26th May , 1955 . 
TOUR PROGRAMME OF MOBILE DISPENSARY OF EASTERN HILL RANGE 

FOR THE MONTH OF JUNE , 1955 . 
13-6-55 Imphal to Khabung . 

A7 Miles . 
14-0.55 Khabung to Thingba Khulen . 

9 
15-6-55 l hingbu Khulen t , Purul Atong ba . 

10 
16-6.55 Halt . 
17-6-55 Purul Atongba to Lakhangmoi. 

8 
18-6 :55 

Halt . 
19-8-50 Lakhamj to Phajbung Khulon . 

6 
20-6-55 Fheibung to Chingmei Kbulon . 

7 
21-6-55 Halt . 
22-6 55 Chingipei Khulen to Lai. 

5 
23-6-65 Hult . 
24-0-55 Lai to Katephemei. 
25-6-55 Kataphemei to Tangjoi Khun - Vow . 

12 
28.0-55 l ungjoi Khunow to Tongkam . 

8 
27-6-55 Tungkam to Makhans jaotak . 

5 
28-6-56 Mąkbansajaoba to Imphal , 

66 

N. B. Roy , 
Offg , Chief Medical Officer , Manipur. 


5 


. 


8 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 1, 1956 . 


PRESS NOTE . 

Imphal, the 25th May , 1955 . 
The normnl fee at the Prince of Wales Military College , Delira Dun is Rs. 3200 / 
per annum per cadet, but yrivileged rate of Rs. 1500 /- per annum is charged 
to thưse cadets whose parents /guer.jians execute an agreement that their sons /wards . 
would join the Armed Forces, if selected , on cumpletion of their training at the 
Prince of Wales Military College . No. Cadet belonging to Scheduled Castes Scheduled 
Tribes is at present studying in l rince of Wales Military College and to attract 
students of this category , the Government of Indiit have decided to charya fees 
from them at it reduced rate of Rs. 7.0/- per annum , provided that their puronts 
guardinns execute the usual agreement , To begin with this concession would bo 
available for two students for the whole course at the Prince of Wales Military 
Collego lasting for 5 to 6 years. Suitablo vandidates from Scheiluled Cistes / Sebeduled 
Tribes are therefore invited t ) join the College . 

Even with this concession Scheduled Cas es/ Tribes students will have to spend 
Rs. 1550 /- per 

annum i . e . Rs. 750 /- towards the tuition fee plus Rs. 800 /- for 
upiſorms, pocket money , book , washing cte , Affording of further muita blo financial 
assistance tu deserving cadets of this category who qualify for admission to Prince 
of Wales Military College will receive attention " f the -tate Government . 


T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt . of Minipur. 


Imphal, the 25th May , 195.). 
Children who have completed 5 yeirs of age and who would not have completed 
12 yeurs of age on 1st July , 1950 are hereby informed to upply for the Ciuvern 
ment of India Merit Scholarship if they wish . Applications will be received by 
the State Goveroment up to the end of July , 1955. 175 % of the total number 
of scholarships will be reserved for children belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled 
Tribes and Other Backward Clasacs. If sufficient number of suitable candidates from 
this categories are not forthcoming the balance of the scholarships will be thrown 
open to others . The valuo of scholarship will be us follows : 
(a ) If the total income of both parents / No exemption from fees . 

guardian is Rs . 1200 /- per month 
or above . 


Exemption from half school leck . 


(b ) If the total income of both 

parents / guardian is from Rs. 600/ 
to 1,119 /- per montb . 


Full exemption from school fees . 


(c ) If the total income of both pa 

rents/ guardian if from Rs . 251/ 

to Rs . 699 /- per month . 
(d ) If the total income of both 

parents/ guardian is from Rs. 101 / 
to Rs. 250 /- per month . 


Full exemption from school fees. The 
scholar will also be given a cloth ng 
alluwapce of : 


or 


(i) Rs. 150 /- per annum in the case of 

scbolists dominated to the Lawrence 

School, Sanawar Lovedalo ; and 
( ii ) Ks . 200 /- for the first year, and Rs. 

150 /- per annum for subsequent years, 
in the case of scholars nominated to 
other Public Bobools . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 1 , 1955 . 


9 


( e ) If the total income of both pa 

rente /guardian is from Rs. 75 /- to · 
Rs. 100 / - per month . 


Full exemption from school fees, and 
clothing allowance as at (d ) above. The 
sobolar will also be paid & travellin 
allowance as below for the journey to 
join his school at the commencement 
of each term ( including the journey 
to join the school for the tirst time ) , 
and the journy from the school to his 
bome ( or other place or normal re 
sidence , whichever is nearer ) at the end 
of each term : 


Where no school party is organised . 
third olass rail way faro , with a return 
fare for the escort . 


(f) If the total income of both parents / 
guardian is less than 

Rs . 75 /- per 
month . 


If there is & school party , the scholar 
must join it ; in the case of onward 
journey to the school, he will join the 
party at the point nearest to his home 
and in the case of return journey from 
the school, he will travel with the party 
upto the point nearest to his home. 
Full exemption from school fees , and 
clothing and travelling allowance as at 
( e) above . The scholar will also be sup : 
plied by the school with the school 
uniform , according to schedule , and 
will be given pocket money which will 
include expenditure on essential toilet 
articles at the nobool rate . 


N. B. - Parents or guardians will be required to submit a formal statement of 
their total income from all sources, supported by a certificate from the Revenue 
authorities or an Income- Tax certificate. If the statement is later found to be 
incorrect the scholarship shall be forth -with cancelled and the parent / guardian shall 
be required to refund all money spent on the child by Goverument or the School 
concerned . 

Applications are to be submitted in the prescribed form which will be available 
in the Home Oflice of the Secretariat on any day during office hours . A preliminary 
selection of the candidates will be made by the State Government and after that 
final test for selection will be conducted at 10 Regional Centres , Ambala , Delhi, 
Allahabad , Calcutta , Guuhati, Nagpur , Hyderabad , Madras , Bombay and Alimadabad ; 
and award will be made on the recommendation of the Central Selection Committee . 
There is no public school in this State and selected candidates from here will bave 
to go outside. The medium of instruction in the public schools is either Hindi or 
English . The medium for the oral test as well as test in general knowl-dge and 
arithmetic at the Regional Contres will bo Hindi or English or the mother tongue 
of the candidates as preferred by him . Written test will be held simulteneously at 
all Centres on or about the 15th November, 1955. Further particulars may be 
obtained if necessary from Home Office . 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


Imphal :-Printed and published by the Superintendent Government Press O. 200 / 1-6-56. 


Manipur 


Gazette 


मयमा 


जयते 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 15 


Imphal, Wednesday , June 8 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


Nil 


Part I.-- Appointments , Postings, Transfers, Powers , 

Leave and other personal notices, 
Part II.-- Revolutions , Regulations, Orders , Notif 

cations, Rules etc. 


Part II . - Orders , Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Notices eto . 


N ; ) 
3 to 7 


1 to 2 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 3rd June , 1955. 
No. F -DPC /99 /53. - In continuation of this Secretariat Order No. F -DPC /99/53 
dated May 18 , 1955 the Chief Commissioner is pleased to fix the initial pay of 
Shri K. Obou Mao, Block Development Officer , Mao -Maram NES Block at Rs. 200 / 
per month in the scale of Rs . 150-150-200-10-260-(EB )-10-300-121-375- (EB )-123-450 /-. 
He will draw at this rate from the date of bis joining as 

Block Development 
Officer for Mao NES Block , 

H. R. Singh , 
Asstt. Secretary (Dev ), to the Govt. of Manipur. 


Imphal , the 26th May , 1955 . 
No. H. Press /5 /55. - In supersession of Order No. FA / 93/51/ 13 of 23-10-54 , tho 
Chief Commissioner is pleased to substitute the words “ Assistant Secretary , Home" 
for the words " Publicity Officer " as inserted under column " 2 " of Serial No. 17 
of the statement published in Chief Commissioner s order No. FA / 93 /61/ 32 dated 
14-10-53, 


Imphal , the 1st June , 1955. 
No. J/Misc/ 80 /50 ( a ).- In pursuance of the instructions contained in letter No. 
F.13 / 9 / 56 - Est.C . dated 24-3-13 from the Government of India , Ministry of Home 
Affairs, and in continuation of his order issued under Notification No. J /Misc / 80 /60 
dated 28-2-55 , the Chief Commissioner is pleased to sanction the continuance of 
the post of the Additional Munsiff upto 29-2-56 and to tbe retention of the 
existiog incumbent in the post on his present terms. 

The expenditure involved will be debitable to the Minor Head “ Civil & Sessions 
Court " under derpand No. 68 - Manipur . 


d . K." Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


MANIPUP. GAZETTE , JUNE 8 , 1965 . 


NOTIFICATION 


Imphal, the 31st May , 1955 . 
No. H.Misc . 34 /55.- It is herolsy potified for general information of the public 
that persons desirous of attending Solar Eclipse Fair at Kurukshetra during June, 
1955 are required to possess a medical certificato to the effect that they have 
been inoculated against Cholera after the first Janu iry , 1951. The certificate must 
be signed by registered medical practitioner or de medical 

officer of H Huspital 
or Dispensary . 


Imphal, the 4th June , 1955 . 
No. D /HJ/ 10 /55. - In exercise of the powers conferred upon him by Section 3 . 
of the Prisous Act (Act IX ), 1951 read with the Government of India , Ministry 
of States, Notification No. 104 - J of the 24th August, 1950, the Chief Commissioner 
has been pleased to authorise the Deputy Commissioner of Manipur to exercise the 
administrative functions of the Inspector- general of Prisons for the Stace of Manipur 
as provided in the Prisons Act and the Assam Jail Manual in force in Manipur . 


T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


Imphal, the 7th June , 1955 . 
No. Tax /31/53/61. - 10 exercise of the power conferred upon him by sub -section 
(2 ) of Section 7 of the Assam Sales Tax Act 1947 ( Assam Act XVII of 1947) as 
extended to the State of Manipur , the Chi- f Commissioner is pleased to amend 
with effect from 1-4:52 Schedule III of the said Act by adding the following as 
a new iteni ; 
Description : 

Goods sold at P. R. 1 Canteen , 4th Bo , Assam 

Rifles, Imphal. 
Condition and exception 

Exemption is allowed on condition that the goods 
subject to which exemp 

are sold to personnel of the 4th Bn . Assam Rifles - 
tign has been allowed 

at prices fixed by the canteen steres department. 


Imphal, the 7th June , 1966 . 
No. Tax /31/53 /63. - In exercise of the power conferred upon him by sub -soption 
( 2 ) of Section 7 of the Assam Salos Tax Act 1947 (Assam Act XVII of 1947 ) as . 
extended to tbe State of Manipur, the Chief Com inissioner is pleased to amend 
with effect from 24-4-5 .), Schedulo III of the said Act by adding the following 
88 a new item , 
Description : 

Flowers , Seeds & Planta. 


Imphal, the 8th June , 1965 . 
No. Claims/ 3/ 55 / 33.- The Chief Commissiover is pleased to authorise Shri O. 
Kathipri, Assistant Secretary ( Claims) to the Government of Manipur to sign all 
contingent bills for drawal of money from the Treasury for war damage compensa.. 
tion in respect of buth A.R.M. and non - A.R.M . areas , 


A. K. Ray, 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 8 , 1955 . 


3 


PART IV 


NOTICE . 


Imphal, the 8th June, 1965 . 
No. G.P /5-1 / 1 . – It is often the case that the notitications, advertisements, notices, 
eto. published in the Manipur Gazaite, the signatures of the Officers concerned are 
printed as " Illigiblo " . It is therefore reqnested that in all requisitious sent to the 
Press for publication in the Gazette , the names of the Officers concerned may always be 
typed just below the signature sp: 1ce . 

N. Singh , 
Superintendent, Govt. l ress , Manipur. 


Imphal, the 4th June , 195.). 
The following notice received from thự Laxminarayan Institute of Technology , Nagpur 
University is republished for general information . 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


LAXMINARAYAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY , 

NAGPUR UNIVERSITY . 
Applications are invited for admission to the Laxininarayan Institute of Techno 
logy, Nagpur, which provides a Four-year course leading to the B. Tuck . degree 
of Nagpur University . The next session will commence on Saturday , the 25th June 
1955 , at 11.0 & . m . 

Qualifications for Admission : 

Students who have passed the lotermediate Science Examination of Nagpur 
University (or an examination recognised by Nagpur University as equivalent thereto ) 
with Chemistry , Physics and Mathematics as their subjects . 

Number of Seats Available : 

The total number of seats Avialable is 36 . of these , 10 will be reserved for 
students from other states as follows : 

i for students from Punjab State (for Chem . Engg .) 
8 

Madhya Bharat ( 1 for Chem . Engg . & 2 for Oil Tech .) 
Mysare ( for Oil Tech . 
Travancore -Cochin (for Oil Tech .) 
Part " C " " D " States (2 for Chem . Engg .) 

Unreserved (1 for Chem . Engg . & 1 for Oil Tecbat 
If any of the seats allotted to students from a state othur than Madhya Pradona 
remains unfilled , they will be assigned to students from other states. 

Hostel facilities are available . 

Applications for admission to the institute and the Hostel must be made on the 
prescribed forin obtainable from the office of the undersigned and must reach him 
with the necessary application fee which may be paid at the Institute Office 
nush or by M. O. not later than the 15th Junu 1955. No postal orders or stampe 
are accepted . 

Further, details with regard to the Institute may be obtained from the undersigned 
if required . 

P. S. Mene , 
Director - in - cbarge 


1 


> 


hat 


9 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 8 , 1965. 


NOTICE. 


1 . 


:: 


:: 


II 


Imphal the 28th May , 1968 . 
The defaulters within this Sub - Division should clear up their Land Revenue without 

70 

Assam 
further delay . This Office is prepared to take up steps U /S 69 and 
Land Revenue Regulation involving the attachment of moveables and sale of 
defaulting estates. 

With the issue of process, each defaulter shall be liable to the payment of proce38 
fee of Re. 1 /- in addicion to the due penalty . The Land rev.aue dues should be 
cleared up at leust before 30-6-1955 . Any defaulter , failing to clear up his or her 
arrear dues within the time limit shall unquestionably be subjest to the said Section 
of Assam Land Revenuo Regulation . 

Th . Birahari Singh , EAC 

Sub - Divisional Officer , Churachandpur. 

Imphal, the 3rd June, 1955. 
Sealed tenders are invited for the supply of the following building materials to 
the Manipur Rifles within the month of June 55 . 

The tonders , which may be submitted for any one of the items or for all, will 
be received by the Commandant, Manipur Rifles upto 20-6-55 during Office hours. 
8. No. Details of the materials . 

Approximate 

requirements. 
Wood posts , 6 " x 7 " dia , " Willo " or " Sahi-kuchi 13 long 

105 
( Seasoned ) 9 long 

47 
2 . Wood , Beam " Uningthow ” , 15 to 20 loug (Seasoned ) 

485 cft . 
3 . Brick , 1st Class (Burnt ) 

2020 
4 . Brick , Ballast int Class (Burnt) 

336 cft . 
6 . Surki 

144 cft . 
6 . Lime 

48 oft . 
7 . Cement 

19 bags . 
8 . River Sand 

69 cft . 
9 . Plain sheet, b x3 

14 
10 , Tin screw , with caps 23 " 

16 gro88 . 
11 . " Hal pati " 1.}" xt" x 190 
12 . Patent nails 4 " to 6 " 

20 seers . 
13 . Nail, ordinary (yupi), 2 " to 

15 seers . 
14 . Bolt and nuts , 1 " , 4 " to 10 % long 

20 seere . 
15 . Coal Tar 

2 tips. 
U. C. Malhoutra , 

Inspector General of Police, Manipur. 

Imphal, the 6th June, 1956 . 
Applications stating age, home address , qualifications etc. and addressed to the 
Principal, D. M. College are invited for the post of a part- time tutor in Manipuri 
for the Govt . D. M. College, Imphal on a fixed honorarium of Rs. 150 /- per month 
inclusive of all allowances. 

Age -- Below 50 years. 

Qualifications : Essential : (i) An Arts graduate of not less than 10 years stan 
ding with teaching experience of equivalent duration : ( ii) Must be man of personality 
to be able to control a big class of 200 students. Desirable : - Candidates must be 
men of literary taste and must have contributions of high order towards the Manipuri 
language and literatura . 

Last date of submission of application - 28th June , 1955 . 
Candidates, if appointed , shall be ready to join by 7-7-53 . 

N. B. Sinha , 
Offg . Principal, D. M. College , Imphal 


... 


:: 


:: 


28 gauge 


... 


. 


to a 


:: 


:: 


... 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 8 , 1955 . 


NOTICE. 


Imphal, the Sth June, 1955 . 
Applications stating full name, Home address, qualification and previous experience 
if any , are invited for the following temporary posts for six months in the Govt . 
Press, Manipur at the pay -scale noted against each of them with usual D. A. 
Married candidates should state whether they have more than one wife living . 
Name of post No. of post 

Pay 
Lower Division Asstt . 

Rs. 40-2.50 (EB ) -3-80 (EB )-4-100 / 
Compositor 

Rs. 40-2-60 / 
Distributor 

Rs . 25-1-86 / 
Asstt . Machine -man 

1 

Re. 30-1-40 / 
Binder 

4 

Rs. 30-1-35 / 
Labourer 

2 

Rs. 25-1.30 / 


1 


6 


1 


Candidates for the Lower Division Assistant must be at least a matriculate and 
should have a fair knowledge of English and should know typing well. 
Applications addressed to the undersigned will be received 

before the 
25th June, 1956 during office hours. 


on 


or 


N. Singh , 
Superintendent, Govt . Pri:88 , Manipur, 


Imphal, the 7th June , 1955 . 
The following Notice of the Accountant General Assam Shillong is published 
for general information . 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


Applications ( in candidates own handwriting ) are invited from ( a ) Citizens of 
India (b ) Persons who have migrated or may hereafter migrate from Pakistan with 
the intention of permanently settling in India , (c ) Subjects of Nepal and Portugese 
or French possessions in India for temporary posts of Upper Division Clerks. Per 
sons under categories (b) and (c) should produce a certificate of eligibility issued by 
the Government of India , Number of posts reserved for Scheduled Castes and Tribes 
is one and three respectively . Preference will be showa to (a ) persons registered 
in Ministry of Home Affairs (D. G. S. Section ) and ( b ) retrenched employees of 
Indian Audit Department, otber Departments of Government of India and retrenched 
employees of the Burma Audit Department as well as the employees of the Rationing 
and Civil Supplies Dertt . in the various States of Jodia . Minimum Educational 
Qualification : University Degree. Age limit : 25 years on the date 3 months after 
the date of advertisement , relaxable in respect of retrenched employees, refugees and 
members of Scheduled Castes and Tribes . Scale of pay : Rs. 50-5-120 -EB- 8-200-10 /2-220 / 
plus all wances . Pay will be raised to Rs. 100 /- on passing & Departmental Exa 
inination , ordinarily after t service of one year . Confirmatijn will als be subject 
to passing this examination . Good chances of promotion , to higher posts in the 
Deptt. exists on passing the prescribed Departmental Examinations . Application 
giving full particulars should be addressed to the Acc juntant General, Assam , Shillong 
to reach him not later than 30-6.1965 . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 8 , 1955 . 


PRESS NOTE . 

Imphal, the oth Mey , 1955. 
The fulluwing Press note is republished for general informativn . 

T. Kipgen , 

Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 
GOVERNMENT OF 
INDIA SCHOLARSHIPS TO) INDIAN NATIONALS FOR 

SPECIALISATION IN FOREIGN LANGUAGES ABROAD) -1905-31 
The Govt . of India havo decided to award in 19955-50 , 30 scholurships tenable 
abronit to Indian natic nals for specialising in Arabic , Chinese , French , German , 
Italian , Japanese , Persian , Spanish , Turkish and Russian . 

Only candidates sponsored and recommended by the Universities / comparable insti 
tutions/Central or State Govts . whu pre prepared to serve the sponsoring authorities 
for at least thrra ye:urs after their return 10 India will be considereit . They should 
have a good University degree and except for awards in Spanish , Italian , Turkis ) 
and Japanese languages, should have already studied the language concerned and 
acquired proficiency therein . Candidates for Scholarships in Spanish , Italian , Turkish , 
and Japanese languages should have clem : ntary knowledy, or aptitude for 

the 
foreign language concerned . Candidates should not be 

than forty years 


More 


of age . 


The scholarships will be normally tenable for one year aud will cover nixinte 
nance and cost of travel . 

l rescribed application forms and further particulars can be had from the Spon 
soring Authorities or from the Government of India , Ministry of Education , Scholar 
ships and Information Division ( coction S. 1 ), New Delhi. The last date for the 
receipt of applications is the 15th July , 1955 . 


men 


Imphal, the 30th May, 1955 . 
The Government of India have provided y sum of Rs. 1,30,00,000;- for the 
year 1955-56 to award scholarships to scheduled Castes , Scheduled Tribes and other 
Backward Classes . The scholarships are tenable in recognised lostitutions . in India 
imparting education beyond the Matri ulation stage in the following courses 
tioned in order of preforonce . 

( a ) Medicine and allied subjects including Nursing . 
(b ) Engineering and Architecture. 
(c ) Agriculture, Forestry and Veterinary Science . 
(d ) Technology . 
( e ) Science . 
(f ) Education and Social Service . 
(g ) Humanities ( including Arts), Social Science , Fine Arts and Languages . 
( b ) Commerce . 

( i) Law and Library Science . 
The last date of receiving applicatiuns by the Ministry of Education , New Delhi 
is 31st July , 1955. Particulars of the amount of scholarships, instruction to candi 
dates, regulations and application forms may be obtained in the Offices of the 
Superintendent (Home Office ), the Sub-divisional Officers , the Principal, D. M. College , 
the Inspector of Schools , the Chief Medical Officer, the Director of Agriculture , 
the Forest Officer and the Executive Engineer , Manipur P.W.D., Imphal. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 8 , 1966 . 


7 


PRESS NOTE . 


Imphal, the 31st May, 1955. 
Particulars of approved films which are required to be shown under condition (a ) 
of the Cinema licenses as notified under this Government Notification No. H.Misc , 79/51/38 
dated 3rd December, 1954 are availablo in the office of the Licensing Authority . 


T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


NOTICE . 


Imphal, the 3rd June, 1957 : 
No. H. Apptt . 35/55.-- The Union Public Service Commission will hold an exa 
mination at Allahabad , Bombay : Calcutta , Delhi, Ludhiana , Madras , Nagpur, Patna 
and Simla ( and at such Indian Missions abroad as considered necessary ) in November , 
1955 for recruitment to vacancies in Grade IV (Assistants Grade ) of the Central 
Secretariat in the scale of Rs. 160-10-300 - E B - 15-450 . Only the graduates of a recog . 
nised University or its equivalent shall.be eligible . Candidates seeking admission to the 
examination must apply to the Secretary , Union Public Service Commission , Dholpur 
Houst , Post Box No. 186 , New Delhi, on the prescribed form of application which 
must reach the Comn: ission on 25th June 1955 at the latest. Copies of the a : plication 
forms and full particulars are obtainable from the Secretary of the Commission on 
payment of a fee of Re . 1/- which should be remitted to the Commission by Money 
Order stating the name of the esamination in respect of which the application forms 
are required . 

G , H. Singh , 
Asstt . Secy . (Home) to the Govt. of Manipur . 


Imphal, the 3rd June , 1955 . 
Public is hereby informed that 12592 empty gunny bags will be sold by auction 
at the Godown of the office of the undersigned on 17-6-55 ut 10-30 A.M. Out of 
these bags 1000 pcs are good and in bales and 11592 pcs are socond hand . 
Intending bidders should be present on that day at the appointed time and place . 

R. K. Mani Singh , 
Superintendent, Civil Supply . 


CORRIGENDUM . 

Imphal, the 8th June, 1955 . 
Please read " 29th February , 1956 " for “ 29th February, 1955 " occuring in the 
4th line of the order No. F -DPC / 2 /53 /257-8 of 24-5-55 

on the 2nd page of the 
Manipur Gazette No. 14 of 1-6-56 . 

N. Singh , 
Superintendent, Government Press , 

Manipur, 


Imphal :-Printed and published by the Superintendent Government Press O. 200 / 8-6-38 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


मध्यमवा 


जयन 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 16 


Imphal, Wednesday , Juno 15 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Pago 


Part I.-- Appointments , Postings , Transfers , Powers , 

Leave and other personal notices, 
Part -11. - Revolutions , Regulations, Orders, Notifi 

cations, Rules otc . 


1 


Part II) . Orders , Nctifications, Rules of 
the Goverument oi ja41 : 11 , 

Nil 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Notices etc. 14 to 16 


2 to 14 


I. 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 1 th June, 1955 . 
No. R / 87 /50 /56.- The Chief Commissioner is pleased to appoint Shri L. Kipgen 
temporary S.D.C. as a temporary Extra Assistant Commissioner until further order 
with effect frown 15th Juve, 1955 , in the scale of Rs. 250-250-300 ( Con -23-400 (EB ) 
25-600 ( EB )-25-650 /-. He will be in charze of Ukhrul Sub - Division . 


Imphal, the 12th June, 195.5 . 
No. R /7 / 54. — The Chief Commissioner is pleased to appoint Shri A. Halim 
Ahmed Choudhury as Sub -Deputy Collector in the scale of Rs. 150-150-200 ( Con ). 
10-260 (EB )-10-300-12 ) -376 (EB ) -123-450 ) - with effect from the date of joining . The 
Officer will be on probation for 2 years and confirmation will be subject to the 
passing of the prescribed Departmental Examinations . Failure to pass the Depart 
mental Examinations will make his fervices liable to termination . 


Imphal , the 12th June, 1953. 
No. RI/ 7 /54.- On the recommendation of the Union Public Service Commiesion 
Shri K. Lamphel Singh is appointed on probation against one of the permanent 
posts of E.A.C. s sanctioned under Govt. of India , Ministry of States letter No. 
23 ( 50 )-8/51 dated 28-2-53 as amended by their letter of even number dated 19-8-53 
with effect from 1-4-1956 . He is required to pass the prescribed Departmental Exe 
mination by 31-3-57 . He would however continue to act as Project Executive Officer, 
Thoubal which carries the same scale of pay 28 that of an E.A.C. 


A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 15 , 1988 . 


PART II 

Imphal, the 12th June, 1955 . 
No. R /87 /50 /58. - The Chief Commissioner is pleused to order that the pay scale 
of Project Executive Officer for the Thoubal Community Development Project shown 
in Order No. R / 15 / 53 dated 10th October, 1953 may be corrected as indioatod 
below . 

Read “ Rs. 250-250-300 (Con )-25-400 ( EB )-25-800 ( EB ) -25-650 /- " 
for “ Rs . 250-250-300 Con -25-400 ( EB )-25-600 /- " 


A. K. Ray, 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


Imphal, the 7th June, 1955 , 
No. A -PW /Misc / 13/55 (Pt) -11 . - In partial modification of this Secretariat Order 
No. A - PW / Miso / 13 /55 (Pt )-II dated the 3rd June, 1965 the Chief Commissioner bue 
been pleased to order that besides Irrigation Division and Highways Division there 
should be a separate Electric Sub -Division under Shri M. Brajamani Sarma , B. E. 
as Electrical Engineer . He will be directly under the Principal Engineering Officer , 
Tripura and Manipur , Agartala as the Executive Engineers of the two Divisions. 
He may however correspoud direct with the Home Department 88 before . 


Imphal, the 8th June, 1980 . 
No. B -HE /9 /52/ 19-20 . - In exercise of the powers oonferred upon him under clause 
( b ) of Section 36A ( 2) of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910 ( IX of 1910 ) and in 
accordance with Government of India , Ministry of Irrigation & Power letter No. 
EL - 11-206 ( 19 ) dated the 18th April , 1955 , the Chief Commissioner is pleased to 
Dominate Shri G. C. Goswami, B. Eng .(Sheff . ), A.M.I.Mech.E., Electrical Inspector , 
Manipur as a member on the Central Electricity Board for this State with effect 
from the publication of the order in the Gazette . 


By urder , 

T. Kipgen , 
Seoretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


Imphal, the 8th June , 1955 . 
No. J/ 17 /51. - In continuation of this Secretariat Notification No. J/ 17/ 61 dated 
11th May , 1956 published in the Manipur Gazette of the 18th May , 1955 and 
in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 296 ( 2 ) of the Assam Municipal 
Act , 1923 (Assam Act 1 of 1923 ) as extended to the State of Manipur by the 
Government of India , Ministry of States Notification No. SRO . 147 dated 8-1-52 , 
the Chief Commissioner is pleased to make the following amendments to the rules 
made for the election of members of the Municipal Buard in Manipur published 
under this Secretariat Notification No. J /31/52 dated 10-11-02 in an Extra Ordinary 
Issue of the Manipur Gazette dated 28-11-52. 

AMENDMENTS 
In clause 1 of sub - rulo ( 2 ) of rule 3 of the said Rules for the 

for the figures and 
word " TWO RUPEES substitute the figure and word ONE RUPEE . 


A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 15 , 1985 . 


Imphal, the 3rd June , 1955 . 
No. A -PW /Misc /13 /55 ( Pt)-11 . — The following distribation of works is ordered between 
the two P. W. D. Divisions in Manipur State . 

1 - IRRIGATION DIVISION 

Executive Engineer : Shri Y. Tombi Singh , B. E. 
Name of Sub . Head 

8. D.O. 

Charge . 
Division , quarters . 
1. Imphal 
Buildings. Imphal. Shri S. Priyokumar Singh . Al Govt. Buildings in Impbal 

(Construction and Maintenanco ). 
2. Water 
Supply . Imphal, Shri I. Raghumani Singh . Imphal Water Supply Rural 

Water Supply 
3. Irrigation . Impbal. Shri R. S. Tolani. 

Irrigation , Embankment and 

Drainage. 
4. Electricity . Imphal. Shri M. Brajamani Sarma. 

B. E. ( Assistant Executive Electricity . 
Engineer .) 

11 - HIGHWAYS DIVISION . 

Executive Engineer : Shri E. Krishnan , B. E. 
1. Imphal Imphal Shri H. Angangyaima Singh , 
Highways 

B. E. In charge of : --- 

( a ) Cachar road survey work . 
(b ) Maintenance and original 

work of certain roads. 
( c) P. W. D. Workshop and 

maintenance of all heavy 

plants and machineries . 
( d ) Design of bridges: 
( e ) Construction of Tadubi 

Kharasom Road ( 12 miles ) 
and survey work of the 
remaining portion of the 

road up to Ukbrul. 
2. Moirang 
Highways . Moirang . Sbri L. Prafulla Chandra 

Siogh . In charge of : 

( a ) Maintenance and original 

works of certain roads. 
(b ) Construction of 3 bridges 

in Moirang - Kakohiag 

Khullen Road . 
( c ) Survey work of certain 

roads as necessary . 
( d ) Certain buildings outside 

Imphal to be specified . 
Construction and main 
tepanoe . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 15 , 195.5 . 


Name of sul Head 

S. D. O. 

Charge 
Division . quarters . 
8. Thoubal 
Highways. Thoubal. Shri Kh . Somorendra Singh . In charge of : - 

(a ) Maintenance and original 

works of certain roads. 


(b ) Coolstruction of the bridge 

at Mayany- Imphal river . 


( c ) Survey work of certain 

roads as necessary . 


(d ! Certain Buildings outside 

Imphal as may be speri 
fied . ( construction and 
maintenance ) . 


4. Ukhrul 

Highways. Ukhrul. Sbri I. Gokulchandra Singh . In charge of : 


(a ) ( onstruction of Lital 
Ukhrul 

roid? diversion 
sanctioned recently by 
Government of India . 


(b ) Maintenance and original 

works of certain roads . 


(c ) 


Survey works of certain 
ronds. 


( a ) Certain buildings outside 

Imphal as may ho speci 
fied . 

( construction and 
maintenance ). 


2 


non 


This order will come into effect from the 15th June , 19.5 .) and during the 
intervening period both 

both thy Executive Engineers are to submit joint proposals 
for the selection and posting of other sub rdinate staff both technical and 
technical. As recruitment of new incumbents may take some time, roughly 50 % of 
the existing staff of the existing P. W. D. Division should be alloted for the II 
Division and in the same manner 50 % of the incumbents to be recruited as fresh 
should be provided between the two Divisions. 
3 It should be noticed that so far as 

far as buildings (including buildings to be 
contructed ) are concerned all buildings in Imphal are allotted to the Irrigiation 
Division and all buildings outside Imphal to the Highways Division . The Divisional 
Engineers should draw up complete lists of buildings in their respective charges on 
this basis and also draw up orders allotting them to the Sub- Divisions under them . 
So far as their respective Divisions are conoerned , the Divisiunul Engineers way 
issue such further instructions as may be necessary for the regulation of the work 
in the Sub - Divisions under them . 


T. Kipgen , 
Seoretary to tbe Government of Manipur. , 


MANUR GAZE 143 JUIN 15 , 3 . 


NOTITIGATIONS . 

Imphai , the 27th May , 1955 . 
Neo H.Gen.4 / 5Son The Poolowitig Noliriuations received from the Governant 
of India , Ministry of inforšation and Broadcasting bro published for genoral in 
formation . 

G.H.Singh , 
Anetto Secretary ( HOME ) to the 

Govorimont of Manipur . 


♡ 1 ) No. 1/ 40854-1 , Apo ; 20 dt . 24m3...55 . 
S.R.O. in pursuance of viauso 2 of the directions issued under the provi 
sons of each or tho enactments specified li the First Echedulo to the Order of 
the Goverrmont of India in to vinistry of Information and Broadcasting S.R.O. No , 
331 dated the 3rd February , 1955 , the Central Government , with the previous appro 
val of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay hereby certifies the film specifiod in 
column 2 of the Schedule horelo arnoxed , in all its language versions , to be of 
the description specified against it in the zorresponding entry of coium 5 of 
the said Schedules i 


SCHEDULE 


S. No. 


Title of the 

film . 


Name of the 

Produror . 


Source of 

Bupp .y . 


Whether a scientific 
film or a film intan 
ded for educational 
purposes or a film 
dealing vith news and 
current events or a 
documentary film . 


2 


3 


4 


5 . 


1 


Indian News 
Roviow No. 336 


Govt . of India 
Films Division 
Bombay . 


Gori , of India Film dealing with 
Films Division news and current 
Bombay 

events . 


( 2 ) No. 1 / 48 / 54- F APP / 21 dt . 31-3--55 . 


S.R.O. In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the 
proviss.ons of each of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the 
Ordea of the Governmunt of India in the Ministry of Information and Broad 
casting , S.R.O. No. 331 dated ihe 3rd February , 1955 , the Central Government , 
with tpe previous approval of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay , hereby certifies 
the film specified in column 2 of the Schedule hereto annexed , in all its langu 
ago vorsions , to be of tho description specified agains ! it in the corresponding 
ntry ot column 5 of the said Schedule . 


SCHEDULE . 


S.No. 


Title of the 


Name of the 
Producer , 


Source o 

supper . 


Whether a scientific 
film or allem inten 
dod for educational 
purpose or a film 
dealing with news arů 
current fronts or a 
documentary film . 


2 


3 


5 . 


1 . 


Indian News 
Roviem No. 337 


Govt . of India 
Films Div1.gion , 
Bombes . 


Qovt . 02 India 
Films Division , 
Bombay . 


Film dealing with 
news and current 
events . 


1 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 15 , 1955._ 

13 ) No. 7/48/34 ] App / 22 dt . 7-4-55 . 
S.R.O. In purodance of clause 2 of the directions issuod under the provisions 
of each of the enactments Apocified in the First Scheduke to the Order of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broad onsting 5.R.O. No. 
331 dated the 3rd Fubruary , 1955 , the Central Government , with the previous appro 
val of the Plan Advisory Board , Bombay hereby certifies the film specified in 
colum 2 of the schedule haruto annexod , in all its language versions , to be of the 
description specified against it in the correspond ing entry of column 5 of the 
said Sohodule . 


SOHLDUL.. 


S.No. 


Title of the 

film . 


Name of the 

producer , 


Source of 

supply . 


Whether a scientific 
117. or a fa 2m inten 
ded for educational 
prarposes or a film 
dealing with nows and 
current events or a 
documentary film , 


2 . 


3 


4 


Indian News 
Review No. 338 


Govt . of India Govt . of India 
Films Division Films Divis.lon , 
Bombay . 

Bombay . 
do 

do 


Film dealing with news 
and current events . 


Tungabhadra 


Documentary film , 


( 4 ) No. 148 / 54- F App / 23 dt . 14-4--55 . 


6.R.O. In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the prom 
visions of each of the enactmento specified in the First Schedule to the Order 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting S.R.O. 
No.331 Jated the 3rd February , 1955 , the Central Government with the previous 
approval of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay hehrby certifles the films, specified in 
column 2 of the Schedule hereto annexed , in all their language versions , to be of the 
desoription opeoilied against each in the corresponding entry of cosumn 5 of the 
gald Sohedule . 


SCHEDULE . 


S.No. 


Title of the 
film . 


Name of tn . 

Producer 


Source or 

supplt . 


Whether a solontirlo 
film or a film intended 
for educational purposes 
or a film dealing with 
news and ourrent evento 
or a documentary film . 


2 


3 


4 


5 


1 


Indian News 
Review No. 339 . 


Govt . of India 
Film Dirisior. 
Bombay . 


Govt . of India 
Films Division 
Bombay 


Films dealing with 
nows and current 
events . 


2 


Muslims in India . 


do 


do 


Documentary film , 


( 5 ) No. 1/ 48 / 54-7s App: 24 dt . 21.4.55 . 


8.8.0 . In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provi 
sion of each of the enactments spooilled in the First Schedule to the Order of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 8.1.0 . 


MANIPUR GAZTU JUN 15 , 1955 . 

9 
No. 331 dated erg February , 1955 , the Central Government with the prorfus approaie 
Tal of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay horoby certifies the film , specified in 
column 2 of the Schedule høreto annexed , in all ito language versions, to be of de 
the description specified against it in the correspond ing entry of column 5 of the 
said Schedule . 


SCHMDULE . 


S.No. 


TitTool the 

film . 


Name of the 

Producer 


Sol ? ce of 

apply . 


Whether a Scientific 
film or a tiim intore 
dad for educational 
purposes or a film 
dealing with news and 
ourrent events or a 
dooumentary film . 


2 . 


3 


4 . 


5 


1 


Indlan News 
Review No. 340 


Govt . of India 
Films Division 
Bombay . 


Govt . of India 
Films Division 
Bombay . 


Film dealing with 
news and current 
events . 


(6 ) No. 1/ 48 / 54-7 . APP / 28 dt , 26-4--55 . 


S.R.O. In pursuance of olause 2 of the directions issued under the provi 
Bions of each of the enavmente specified in the First Schedule to the Order of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting , 8.8.0 . No. 
331 dated the 3rd February , 1955 , the Central Government , with the previous appro 
val of the film Advisory Board , Bombay , hereby certifies the films spooilied in 
Bolum 2 of the Schodule hereto annexed , in all their language versions , to be of 
the doloription specified against each in the corresponding entry of columnes of 
the said Schedule . 


SCHEDULE . 


S. No. 


Title of the 


film . 


Name of the 
producer . 


Source of 
supply . 


Whether a scientific 
film or a film latended 
for educational purpo 
ses or a film dealing 
with hows and current 
events or adopumentary 
flim , 


2 


4 


5 


Sare Sately 


3 

India 
Government of / 
Films Dirision , 
Bombay 


Dooumertary film . 


Govt . of 
India , Film 
Divisjon , 
Bombay . 


2 


fitness 

First . 


Ama Ltd. , 

Bombay . 


Film intended for 
educational purposes . 


Do 


The National 
Foundation . 


Goyt . of India 
Films Division , 
Bombay 


fl . intended for 
educational purposes . 


4 


A New Lite . 


DO 


Do 


Drooumentary film . 


Gar Flag . 


DO 


Hind Educational 
Films , Bombay , 


Tilm Intended for 
educational purposes . 


Do 


Documentary film .“ 


j 


Dawn of 

Govt . of India 
Social Somurity Fx.lms Division , 

Bombay . 


Mahabalipuram 


Do 


Do 


rila lutondod for 
eduoational purpopor . 


MANIPUR GAZME , JUNE 15 , 1955 . 
Name of the 

Source of 
Produdar , 

supply . 


Title of the 

pulmo 


2 . 


Whether a bolontirlo 
111m or a film inton 
ded for educational 
purposes or a film 
dealing with news and 
current events or a 
dooumentary film . 


2 


4M 


5 


8 


Forgotten 

Inopire . 


Govt . of India , 
Films Division , 
Bombey . 


Film intended for 
educational purposes . 


Govt . of In 
dia , filme 
Division , 
Bombay 

Do 


India Ploughb 

Deeper . 


Documentary f11m , 


United States 
Information 
Service 


10 


Do 


MA 88 age in a 

·Moment . 


Govt . of India , 
Filme D ivision . 
Bombay . 

Do 


Film intended for 
educational purposes . 


11 


Man with wings . 


Do 


Documentary film . 


12 


Marine Marvels . 


Do 


Do 


Film intended for 
educational purposes . 


13 


Industrial Mysore 


Do 


Do 


Dooumentary film . 


19 


Madhya Bharat - I 


Do 


Do 


Diocumentary film . 


15 


Do 


Do 


Documentary film . 


16 


Industrial 

MyBore - II 
The Groat 

Experiment 
Madhya Bharat - II 


Do 


Do 


Diocumentary film . 


17 


Do 


Do 


Documentary film . 


18 


Do 


DO 


Documentary film . 


19 


Do 


Do 


Documentary film . 


Welfare of the 

Worker . 
Drums or Meni 

pur . 
Glimpses of 

A8Bam . 
Public School . 

of India . 


20 


Do 


Documentary film . 


21 


Lo 


Do 


Film intended for 
educational purposes . 


22 


Do 


Gateways of 

Commerce . 


ro 


Film intended for 
educational purposes . 


21 


Do 


To 


Choose Your 

Carror 


Film intended for 
educational purposes . 


24 


To 


Do 


Highway of the 

Sky . 


Film tritended for 
educational purposes . 


25 


NO 


National Chemi 
cal Laboratory . 


Film intended for 
educational purposes . 


26 


Robel within . 


Do 


Do 


film intended for 

educational purposes . 


27 


Do 


Locumentary film . 


Battle in Tarai . / United States 

Information 
Service . 


28 


Music of India . 


Do 


Govt . of India 
film . Division , 
Bombay . 


film intended for 
adusational purpoper 


ein 


No. 


Mtle of the 

flim . 


MANIPUR GAZETEI , JUNE 15 , 1955 . 
Name of the 
Producer 

Source of 
supply . 


Whether a scientific 
film or a film Inten 
dod for educational 
purposes or a film 
dealing with news and 
ourront events OB a 
dooumentary film , 


2 


3 


5 


29 


Documentary film , 


Viotory in Taral . United States 

Information 
Service . 


Govt . of India , 
films Division , 
Bombay . 


30 


Your Eyes . 


Tio 


Govt . of India 
Films Livision 
Bombay 


film intended for 
educational purposes . 


31 


Roac to Tibet . 


Do 


Documentary film . 


Shormy Films , 

Simla . 


32 


1 : 0 


Givil Aviation 
Training Centre 


Govt . of India , 
Films Division , 
Bombay . 


Film intended for 
oducational purposes . 


33 


го 


Do 


Now Lands for 

01d 


l ocumentary film . 


34 


Handle with care 


ro 


To 


Film Intended for 
educational purposes . 


35 


Our Armed Forces 


Io 


Do 


1.ocumentary film . 


36 


Do 


D o 


National Physi 
cal Laboratory . 


Film intended for 
educational purpose 8 . 


37 


I o 


Do 


A page from 

History 


Film intended fot 
educational purpose 8 . 


38 


Arrest Leprosy 


Do 


Do 


Pilm intended for 
educational purposes . 


39 


Holy Himalayas 


Lio 


no 


Documentary film . 


40 


A Matter of Duty 


to 


Do 


Documontary film 


41 


Road to New India 


lio 


Draumantary film . 


42 


Holiday urhnder , 


No 


Cine Unit of 
incia . Ponga . 


Pilm intended for 
educational purposes . 


43 


Lo 


Locumentary film . 


Matinnal Cadet. 

Corps . 


Govt . of India , 
Films Division , 
Bombay . 


44 


A New Horizon . 


ro 


Po 


Tocumentary film . 


os 


Io 


ocumentary film . 


viwaith of Out 

Wators . 


National Educa 
tion and Infor 
mation Films , 
Bombay . 


46 


no 


Documentary film . 


Our Original 

Inhabitants . 


Gort . of Indta , 
Films Division , 
Bombay . 


47 


DO 


I o 


Towards a Better 
Society . 


Film intended for 
educational purposes . 


2 
S.NO 


the 
اب 
منی 


HAN IPUR GAZETE , JUNE 15 , 1955 . 
Name of the 

Source of 
Producer . 

supply . 


film . 


Whether a solentirio 
film cr a film intended 
for educational purpow 
808 or a film doaling 
with news and current 
events or a documen 
tary riimi 


2 


3 


4 


5 


48 


Documentary film . 


Century of 

Progr 088 


Govt . of India , 
Films Dirision , 
Bombay . 


Govt . of 
India , films 
Division , 


Bombay 

90 


49 


Komeon Hilis . 


Documentary film , 


50 


Do 


DO 


Land of In 
lightenment . 


Film intended for 
educational purposo ? 


51 


Do 


Do 


Documentary l 11m . 


Mon behind 
tha Wilag 8 . 
Besok Sheep 


52 


Do 


Vilm Iritended for 
oducational purposes . 


53 


Do 


Do 


Documuntary film , 


Light in the 

Darkness , 


54 


Do 


Schooling in 
sub - continent . 


Film intended for 
gäucational purposos 


55 


ro 


ro 


Documentary film . 


M11k for the 

M11lons , 


56 


DO 


Ic 


rosumeniary film . 


Rallway Canto 
nary Exhibition . 


Lo 


Io 


Land 01 the 

Erahmaputrs . 


Film intended for 
educationa . purpop 95 . 


58 


Do 


TO 


Eradicate the 

Enomy . 


Fiiim intendur for 
educational purpoBU 8 


59 


Lost I foroget 

These 


Singh Bros , Belhi . 


Γο 


Locumentary film . 


60 


Net RESULTS . 


To 


Axrcra Films Cor .. 

uration , Calcutta 
for the Govt . Ci 
Wo8t Bangal . 


Film intended fOB 
duo & tional purposes . 


61 


River cf Hope . 


Do 


Documentary film . 


Govt . of India . 
Films 1.vision , 
Bombay . 


62 


no 


Do 


1x yaarѕ оr 

Freedom 


Dooumentary film , 


63 


The Hidden ward . 


No 


Do 


Film intonded for 
oducational purposes . 


64 


no 


о 


Our National 

Arohivos . 


Tila intended for 

educational purposer 


Our Hindon Wealta 


ro 


To 


Film intend ac for 
educational purposes . 


66 


ro 


To 


Republ.:.. Tiay 

Record . 


Ionimentary film . 


677 


On to Parad 180 . 


L atel India Ltd. 
Bombaycan 


DO 


D ocumentary 111m . 


8.NO. 


Title of the 


MANIPUR QAZINTIS , JUNE 15 , 1995 . 

Name of the Bourse of 
Producer . 

supply . 


dolentuelt 


Whether a solontui 
film or 111m inten 
ded for educational 
purpopes or a film 
dealing rith nows 
and current evonte or 
a documentary film . 


2 


4 . 


5 


1 


Bombay .. 


68 ::Projeot for plenty Govt . of India , Govt . of In - rocumentary $ 120 . 

Films Division , dia , Film 
Bombay 

nivision , 
69 A Coronation in 

Io 

Do 

Documentary film , 
the Himalayas . 
70 Folk Musio of New Theatras , DO 

File tintended for 
Bangal . Ltd , Daloutta . 

educational . purposes . 
71 Mundo of India . Govt . of India , 

MO 

Mlm Inandad for 
Tilms vision ; 

aduoational purposes . 
Bombay . 
72 Searchlight on 

Do 

DO 

Mlm intended for 
Leader ship . 

educational purposes , .. 
73 Hundred Keers 

Lo 

no 

nooumentary film . 
of Service . 
74 A Bürning 

Do 

Do 

film intended for 

educational purpose 
Quastion . 
95 . Industrial Bihar 

LIO 

Film intended for 
Do 

adu national purposes 


76 


Γο 


rio 


rooumentary film . : 


Shoulder to 

Shoulder . 
raminine Fashions . 


77 


го 


re 


rooumentary film . 


( 7) No.2/ 16/ 55- ) App / 26 dt. 28-4-55. 


S.R.O. I n purmance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the prori 
sions of each of the enactment , ar specified in the firste Schedule annexed hereto , 
the Central Government , with the previous approval of the film Advisory Board , 
ewway , horoby certifies films specified in column . of the Second Sohodule 
annosted hereto , in all their languago versions , to be of the desoription specified 
against each in column 5 of the said Second Schedule... 

FIRST SCHEDUTA . 
1. Sub- section ! 4 ) of settlon 12 of the cinematogratih Aot , 1952 ( Central Act 

XXXVII of . 1952 ) . 


2. Sub - section ( 3 ) of section 5 of the Andhra Cinemas (Rogulation Aot , 1955 ) 

(President s Act 4 of 1955 ) . 
3. Sub - portion ( 3) of section 5 of the Assam Cinemas (Regulation ) Act, 1954 

( Assain Aot XIV of 1953 ) . 
4. Suber bootion ! a ) of sootion ? mited and section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas (Rogulation ) 

Act , 1953 (Bombay Act XI of 1953 ) . 
5. Subwsection ( 4 ) of section 5 of the Bihar Cinemas (Regulation ) Act , 1954 (Bihar 

Act XL of 1954 ) . 
6. Sub - rection ( 4 ) of sootton 6. of the Madhya Pradesh Cinemau (Regulation ) Aot, 1952 

(Madhya Praded onto Aot WII 09. 1958 ) , 
9. Subrosetion ( 4 ) of seotion 5 of the Ortoa Oinomous (Regulation ) Act , 1954 ( Ordesa 

dot II of 1954 ) . 


MANIPUR GAZETII , JUNE 15 , 1955 . 


8. Subsection ( 1 ) of motion 5 of the Punjab Orinoma . (Regulation ) Act , 1952 

( Punjab Act XI of 1958 ) . 
9. Sub - Bootion ( 4 ) of sootion 5 of the Hyderabad Cinepas ( Regulation ) Act , 1952 

( Hyderabad Act XLVI of 1952) . 
10. Section 6 of the Madhya Bharat Cinemas (Regulation ) Act, 1953 (Madhya Bharat . 

Aot 15 of 1953 ) . 
11. Bub - section ( 4 ) of section 5 of the Mysore Cinoma . (Regulation ) Act , 1952 

( Mysore Act XXXI of 1952 ) . 
12. Sub- section ( 4 ) . Of section 5 of the Popsu Cinemas (Regulation ) Act , 1954 

(Popou Aot 7 of 1954 ) . 
13. Section 6 of the Rajasthan Cinemas (Regulation ) Act , 1952 ( Rajasthan Act XXX 

of 1952 ) . 
14. Sub - section ( 4 ) of section 5 of the Saurashtra Cinemas (Regulation ) Act , 1953 

. de ( Saurashtra Aot XVII of 1953 ) . 


SECOND SCHETUL.. 


6.NO. 


Title of the 
film . 


Name of the 
Produoer . 


Source of 

supply 


Whether a bolontirlo 
film or a film inton 
dod for educational 
purposes or a film 
dealing with news 
and ourrent events or 
a documentary film . 


1 . 


. 2 


3 


4 


ki 


1.And lan Nowo 

Roviow No. 441 


Govt . of India , 
Films Division , 
Bombay . 


Govt . of In- Film dealing with news 
dia , filme and surrent events . 
Division , 
Bombay . 


2 


1 Go Last 


го 


ro 


Documentary film , 


(8 ) Nof 1/ 16 /55-1 , App / 28 dt.12-5-55 . 


S.A.0 . In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provi. 
#lons of each of the enactments specified in the first Schedule to the Order of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting N , 8.1.0 . 
945 dated the 28th April , 1955 , the Central Government with the previous wproval 
of the Mim Advisory Board , Bombay: - her eby certifies the film specified in column 
2 of the schedule horeto annexed , in all its language versions , to be of the 
description specified against it in the corresponding entry of oolumn 5 of the 
Baid schedule.adhan 


SCHEDULA 


S.No. 


Title of the 
film . 


Name of the 
Producer . 


Source of 
supply . 


Whether a soienttria . 
Illm or a film inten 
ded for educational 
purposes or u 111 
dealing with news 
and current events 
of a documentary 


1 


2. ! 
Indian News 
Review No. 343 


Govt . of India , 
Films Tivision , 
J. Bombay , 


4 
Qovt . of India , 
Films Division , 
Bombay . 


5 
rin dealing with 
news and current 
evento . 


MANIPJR GAZETTI , JUNE 15 , 1955 . 


13 


( 9 ) No. 1/ 16 /55-1" , App / 30 dt. 19-5-55 . 
S.R.O. In pursuance of clguse 2 of the directions issued ander the proyi 
sions of each of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the Order of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. 
8.1.0 . 945 dated the 28th April, 1955 , the Central Government with the previous 
approval of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay hereby cortifies the film specified 
in culumn 2 of the Sodedule hereto annexed , in all its Language versions , to be 
of the description specified against 14 in the correspond ing ontry of column 5 
of the said schedule . 


SCHMULE . 


S.No. 


Title of the 

Plin . 


Name of the 
producer . 


Source of 
supply . 


Whether a scientific 
film or a film inten 
ded for educatioml 
purposes or a film 
dealing with news 
and current events 
or a documentary 
film . 


2 


3 


4 


5 


1 


Indian News 
Review No.342 


Govt . of India , Govt . of India , Tilm dealing with 
Filma Division , Films Division , news and current 
Bombay . 

Bombay 

events . 


( 10 ) No. 1 / 16 / 55-.F App / 30 dt , 19-5-55 . 


8.8.0 . In purmance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provi 
sions of each of the pla enactments specified in the First Sohedule to the Order 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. 
8.R.O. 945 dated the 28th Apr 1 , 1955 , the Central Government with the previous 
approval of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay hereby certifies the film spoodried 
in column 2 of the Schedule hereto annexed , in all its languagu rusions , to be 
of the description specified against it in the corresponding entry of column 5 
of the said Schedule . 


SCHHULE . 


S. NO . 


Title of the 
flim . 


Name of the pro 

lucor . 


Source of 

supply . 


Whether a soientific 
Pilm or a film inten 
ded for educational 
purposes or a film 
dealing with news 
and current events 
or a documentary 
$ 11m . 


2 


3 


4 


1 


Indian News 
Review No.344 


Govt. of India , Govt . of India, Film dealing with 
Flama Division , pilms Division , nous and ourront 
Bombay . Bombay . 

events . 


14 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 15 , 1956 . 


Imphal, the 7th June, 1955 . 
The following Office Memorandum No. F.8 .( V )-3 /65-HII dated the 25th May , 1955 
received from the Government of India , Ministry of Health , 

of Health , New Delhi s 
published for general information . 

G. H. Singh , 

Asstt. Secretary (Home) to the Govt . of Manipur . 
Subject :-Medical Attendance Rules - Concessions regarding treatment of Central 

Govt , Servants and their families for tuberoular diseases . 
The undersigned is directed to say that for the purpose of this Ministry s 
Office Memorandum No. F.6-234 /47 -MII dated the 11th August , 1949 (as amended 
from time to time) the Bhabendra Bala Chest Clinic , Serawpore (West Bengal ) 
should be treated as a recognised Sanatorium . This Clinic should also be treated 
As a recognised institution for the purpose of grant of extra -ordinary leave to 
temporary Central Government servants suffering from T.B. 
2. In 80 

Govt. servants who are serving in the Indian Audit and 
Accounts Department are concerned , these orders have been issued after consultation 
with the Cocoptroller and Auditor General of India . 


far as 


over 


PART IV 

Imphal, the 7th June, 1955 , 
The following letter No. 7917 - PH / 6 /5 /55-2F - 17-55 dated the 6th May , 1955 
receivod from the Director of Health Services, Orissetties. Bhubaneswar, addressed to 
the Directors of Health Services of Part A States ; an : Delhi is published for 
general information . 

G. H. Singh , 

Asstt. Secretary (Home) to the Govt. of Manipur , 
Subject : 

CAR FESTIVALS OF 1955 . 
The Car festivals of Lord Jaganath at Puri will be celebrated from the 5th of 
June, 1955 and will continue till the 4th of July , 1955 . This festival, as usual, 
will attract large numbers of pilgrims from all 

India . It is observed that 
epidemics of cholera break out . either during or after the festival: de sporadic 
Cuses of cholera are being reported froin some parts of Orissa and also from neighbouring 
States, particularly from bordering States , it is felt that the intending pilgrims 
should be advised through newspapers and other sources to get themselves protected 
against cholera sufficiently in advance . 

Adequate medical and public bealth arrangements are being undertaken in this 
State on the occasion but as mentioned before, it is desirable that the pilgrims 
intending to visit Puri from your State should get themselves inocula ! ed and obtain 
necessary inoculation certificate, as otherwise they will not be allowed to enter into 
the festival areas without such inoculation certifioite . Temporary regulations making 
cholera inoculation compulsory in the festival area under the Epidemic Diseases Act , 
1897 from 15th of April 1955 to 15th July , 1955 are being enforced . 

enf orced . Holi ers of 
certificates of inoculation issued after 1-4-55 will however not be required to take 
furtber inoculation in the festital area . 

Imphal, the 16th June, 1955 . 
Sealed tenders are hereby invited for the supply of ten smoothing irons 
(steel) of ordinary size for the Manipur Police (unarmed branch ). 

Teders addressed to the undersigned together with samples will be received 
in the Police Office during office huurs upto 27-6-55 . 
It is not obligatory for the undersigned to accept the lowest or any tender. 

U. O. Malhoutra , I.P.S. 
Inspector General of Police , Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 18 , 1965 . 


16 


@ Ros 
» @ Rs 


( 


1 


:: 


. 


@ Rs 


@ Rs 


@ Po 


::: 


i; 


Thoubal Athokpnm , the 6th June, 1985 . 
No. CP / V - 14 /62. - Quotations are hereby invited from intending suppliers for the 
supply of the following materials to the Arts , Crafts and Cottage Industries Training 
oum - Production Centre , Thoubal and will be received by the undersigned up to the 
25th Juve, 1955. Rate of each article should be quoted both in words and figures. 
Full particuliers may be had from the Superintendent of the above Training Centre . 

GROUP A BLACKSMITHY & FOUNDRY MATERIALS 
1 . Charcoal 

Per md @ Rs 
2 . Aero -scraps or aluminium ( sample given ) 
3. Brass scraps 

) 
4. M. S. Scraps - round , square , rectengulur of more 
than 6 " long - 1 / 3 , 174 , 2/2 , 2/2 

@ BA 
6. M. S , Sheet scraps more than 1 sft of the thickness 
1/16 " 3 " 1 " / 4 3 " /4 

@ Rue 
of 

* "/ 4 
32/4 8 1619 
6 . M. S. Scraps- ( flat ) "more than 2" 18 " sft . of the 
thickness of "15 , " 15 

@ Rs 
7 . M / 8 angle bar scrap of more than 1" breadth 
8 . Broken spring of motor cars and trains of mor , 

tban l 
9 . Borax 

Per RT . @ Rs 
10 . Tin (Rang ) 
11. Paints ( Black ) 

Per lb. @ Rs 
12. Paints (Red ) 

@ Rs 
13. Emery papers 

Per Doz . W Pas 
14 . Old valve springs ( thickness of the spiral wire will be 
1/8 " or slight more ) of Motor 0918 eto . 

Per md. @ Rs 
15. Old aluminium piston or Blook engines 
16 . Worn out bush and brasses 
17. M. S. Wire scraps of 1/8 " to 3/16 " dia . in tbickness 

GROUP B - CARPENTRY MATERIALS . 
1. French polish (Bharat Brand ) i glo . 

Per tin @ Rs 
2. Mebtilated spirit of 26 oz 

Per bottle @ Rue 
3. Shellac ( flake ) 

Por sr . @ Rs 
4. Turpin oil 
6. Lingued oil 
6. Dry Colour ( colours ) 
7. Varnish (Bbarat Brand ) { gln . 

Per tin @ Rs 
8. Sand papers ( India ) 

Per doz. @ Pos 
9. Walnut, Oak , Mohogny 

Per tin @ Rs 
10. Steel Wire Nail *" 

Per Sr. @ Pe 
11 . 
12 . 

1 " 
13 . 114 

@ B 
14 . 

2 * 
18 . 

211 
16 . 3 " 

RA 
17 . 

Re 
was . Wood sorews 

Per gra . Pa 


@ He 
@ Rs 
@ Ko 


21 


@ Rs 
@ Rs 
@ Rs 


* 


:::: 
: 


@Re 
@ Re 


. 

os 


@ Blo 
@ Rue 


. 


: 


fa 


19. 


@ Pin 


16 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 15 , 1966. 


:: 


. 


(a He 
@ Rs 
@ , RS 
(« ). Ha 


, 


1 . 


@ Rs. 
@ Rs. 


> 


20 . Wood screws 13 " 

Per grs. @ Ho 
21. Wax (Khoiru ) 

Per sr . c Ks 
22 . Almirah Keys (medium size) (Manipuri mude ) 

Per doz . ( W He 
23 . Rosip 

Per sr . (ä , ko 
24. Borac 
25. Polish Brush " 

Per each @ ) 
26 . 
27 . 
28 . 
29 . 

11 " 

GROUP « C _WEAVING MATERIALS . 
Cotten Reel of 400 yds. (best quality ) 

Per doz @ Po 
2 . Throw Shuttle (big size ) 
3 . Throw Sbuttle (medium size ) 

ADVERTISEMENT. 

Insphal. the 10th June , 1955. 
No. CP / 111-6 /52.- Applications are invited for the temporary post of one Upper 
Division Assistant for the Community Project Oflice in the scale of 100-6-150 with usual 
Deurness Allowance as admissible under rules. The post is tenable up to the end of 
February, 1956. None need apply who is not a matriculate of a recognised University . 
Applications stating (i) Full name. (ü ) Present and permanent address , (iii) Nationality , 
(iv ) Personal age on the 30th June 55 , ( v ) Academic qualification , (vi) Past ex 
perience if any and (vii) Number of living wiiu will be received by the undersigned 
up to the 25th June , 1955. Candidates who are already in Govt. service must apply through 
proper channel. Preference will be given to those who have knowledge on accounts . 

K. L. Singh , 

Project Executive Officer, Manipur. 
NOTICE . 

Imphal, the 13th June, 1965 . 
Applications stating full name, home address , age , qualifications and previous 
experience if any are invited for the post of Lower Division Offioe Assistant in the 
Office of the Commandant , 4 Assam Rifles, Imphal at the scale of pay of Rs. 50-3-80 
EB- 4-100 /- and dearness allowances of Rs . 29 /87- per month . The post is temporary 
at present but likely to be made permanent in due course . Minimum educational 
qualifications should be Matriculation and must 

must have fair koowledge of typing . 
The candidate is liable to transfer to any parts of Assam , N.E.F.A. etc. 

Applications should be addressed to the undersigned and will be received on or 
before 20 June, 1965 during office hours . 

H. S. Rawat , Major , 

for Commandant, 4 Adam Ridos. 
Imphal, the 8th June, 1955 . 
Applications atating age, educational qualification , previous experience if apy and 
no of wives living ( in case of married candidates) for the undermentioned posts 
are invited and will be received by the undersigned on or before the 25th June , 
1968 on every working day during office hours . 

None need apply who is not at least a B. A. or B. Sc . of a recogpised University . 
Those who have already applied for the last temporary post of a teacbur of Johostono 
High School need not submit fresh applications , 
1. Two temporary asstt teaobers for Johnstone High School for a period of about 

one year at the Pay Soale of Rs . 100-10-180 -EB - 6-190 -EB - 10-250 /- p.m , with 
usual D , A. 
One temporary Asstt. teacher for up to September, 1956 on the above scale . 

H. N. Singh , 

Head Master, Johnstong High School. 
Leanno Printed and published by the Superiatondent Government Prens 200 / 15-6 :35 . 


2 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 17 - E -6 


Imphal, Thursday , June 23 , 1955 . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Order by the Chief Commissioner . 

lınphal, the 18th June , 1955 . 
No. 1-C0 / 27 /54.- In continuation of this Administration order No. 1 - C0 /27 /54 
dated the 25/ 30th May, 1956 the Chief Commissioner is pleased to allow Sbri 
Upendra Mohan Singh , Offg . Director of Industries to discharge all functions of 
A. R. C. S. and Registrar of Joint Stock Companies and Firms until Shri Prafulla 
Chandra Sarma Bordoloi joins as Asstt. Registrar, Co -operative Societies, Manipur. 

G. H. Singla , 
Asstt. Secretary (Home ) to the Govt. of Manipur . 


NOTIFICATION 


Imphal, the 14th June , 1965 . 
No. C /HDE /28-54 /218. - Applications for bonafied Manipuris are invited for the 
following scholarships each ten ible for two years : 

( 1 ) 3 Post- graduate scholarships of Rs. 40 ,- p . m . each . 
( 2 ) 4 Degree or Senior scholarships of Rs. 25- p . m . 

each plus free tuition in the D. M. College. 
(3 ) 4 Intermediate or Junior scholarships of Rs. 20 /- p . m . 

each plus free tuition in the D. M. College. 
2. In case of scholars other than Post-graduate students who are permitted to 
istudy outside Manipur by the Government for sufficient reasons 50 % increase in the 
value of the original scholarships will be given in lieu of tuition fee . 

Applications with original mark sheets should reach the undersigned on 
before the 15th July, 1955 with the following : ( i) Namy ( ii ) Name of father 
or Guardian with occupation and home address, ( iii ) Name of School or College from 
which he/she passed . ( iv ) Division with any other qualification such as Distinction 
etc., with mark sheets in which the candidate passes. (v ) Name of College in which 
he/she wants to prosecute studies and whether in Arts or Science . 


3 


or 


4 . One scholarship is reserved for Tribal students (men ) for Post- graduate , 
Degree and Junior scholarships and one scholarship reserved for girl students (both 
tribal and non - tribal) for Degree and Junior scholarship . Out of the two general 
scholarships io Post - graduath and Degree one will be granted for Arts and 

and the 
other for Science . Notwithstanding this , if there are no suitable candidates in 
particular year for the reserved scholarships, the scholarships thus unavailed of, cea 
be given to some other suitable candidates . 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipar. 


2 


MANIPUR. GAZETTE , JUNE 23, 1988 . 


TENDER NOTICE NO . 9 . 


case 


Inphal, the 7th June , 1955 . 
1. Sealed tenders superscribed as Tender for Laloi-Chingkhodung Compartment 
in Block No. XVI are invited for the exclusive right to work out timber from 
the compartment stated above and will be received by the undersigned upto 2 P. M. 
on the 27th June, 1955 . The period of contract is 2 ( two) years from 1st August, 
1955 to 30th July, 1957 . 

2. Each tenderer should state the monopoly fee in terms of pice per rupne in 
addition to royalty payable on the extracted timber , for the right of working the 
timber . The monopoly fees offered shall be payable each time with the royalty 
while taking the transit pass. The tendercr should deposit an earnest 

money 

ot 
Rs. 100 /- (Rupees one hundred ) only in the Imphal Treasury and should 

should enclos ? 
the Treasury Chalan in the tender , failing which no tunder will be accepted . The 
earnest money will be refunded in 

of unsuccessful tenders and will be 
converted into a part of cuation money in caso of successful tenders. Successful 
tenderors shull execute an agreement within 14 days of the receipt of thy infor 
mation to that effect and shall deposit i caution money of Rs. 400 /- (Rupees four 
hundred ) only , failing which the tencler shall be treated as cancelled and the earnest 
money deposited shall be forfeited to the Government of Manipur. The undersigned 
does not bind himself to accept the highest tender and may reject any tender 
without assigning any reason . No juint lessee will be admitted . 

3 . The annual quota of logs to be extracted is limited to 600 logs or 200 (two 
hundred ) trees approximately . In no way , timbers below 6 ft . in girth ineasured 
at B. H. ( Breast height ) be allowed tu fell. Trees which are reserved and marked 
for mother trees by the Forest Department in the area stated above should not 
be felled . 

The compartment from which timbers are to felled and exploited is 
defined below : 

The area hounded by Chingkhoduag stream to the north and Laloi Lok to the 
south which meet to the west forming Adai Nadi and then join Asikade Nadi and 
to the west ridge of the Koubru Chingsang . 
5 . Particular of area and conditions of the agreement may be 

the 
Forest Office during Office hours . 

R. K. B. C. Singh , 
Forest Officer, Government of Manipur. 


4 . 


os 


seen 


in 


NOTICE 


Imphal, the 15th June, 1955 . 
No. 302-3 / 18 / C -1 / 55-56 - Sealed tenders are invited for supply of the following 
liveries for grade IV employees of D. M. College, Impal. Suocessful tenderer is to 
deposit 10 % of the value settled . Tenders with sample of cloth will be received 
by the undersigned upto 5.7.55 . 
Name of article . 

No. of article . 
Khaki long pants. 

4 . 


N. B. Sinba, 
Offg . Principal, D. M. College, Imphal 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 23 , 1956 . 


নিলাম নােটিশ নং ৪ । 


তাং ২৪।৫।৫৫ ইং । 


মরমদি : 


অসিনা পাৎকী পাটাদারশিং অমসুং মনিপুরগী প্রজা পুমা খঙহন্নি । 

মখাদা ইরি পাৎকী পাটাদানশিং মখােই মখােইনা তাং ১৫৫৫৫ ইং ফাণ্ডবদা খীফম থােকপা অহান 
কিন্তী থীরদৰা নগা শুনা থাদবগীদমক লেমহৌরিবা মতম , তাং ৩১৩৫৬ ইং ফাওবা চান পাশিং অসি তাং ২৮৬৫৫ 
ইং লৈপাপােকপা দুমিৎকী অমুক পুং ১১ তাবদগী হোন ডিপুটি কমিশনার আফিসদা মখাগী করারশিং অসিগী মতুংইয়া 
অমুকহ নিলাম তোদু মােনগনি । 

( ক ) নিলাম ওকপিরবা মীনা নিলাম মফমদা আমদ্ৰবদা ওকলিবা পাৎলগী সিকুরিটি ( জামিন ) গা অহানা কিস্তি , 
পাংমলগী শরুক , গা পুন্না খাবিগবনি ; শােয়রগা খুদা পাৎ অপু অমুক হন্না নিলাম তৌদুনা মােনগনি । অকোনবা নিলাম 
অসিদা পাংমল হরদি হস্থরিবা শেল অদু হান্না নিলাম ওকপা মীনা হাপকৎকবনি । 

( খ) নিলাম ওকপা মুমিৎ ৭ নিগী মনুদা সিকুরািগী শরুক অদু পাংমলগী শরুক ! শুনবা হাপকৎকদৰনি । অরেই 
কিস্তিনা তাং ৩১৭৫৫ ইং ফাওবা খীগদবনি । শােইরবদি হাগা থাখিবা শেল পুম্নমক মলগা পাৎ অমুক হন্না নিলাম 
তোবা যাই । 

( গ ) নিম তেলিবা আফিসারনা খাইদগী চাওবা দাগ নগা করি গুম্বা দাগ অ লৌদবসু য়াই : অদুগা পাৎশেল 
থীরর পাৎ অছু নিলাম পুখােবসু য়াই । 

(ঘ) নিলাম অসি আবগী অকোইবা হুকুমদি চীফ কমিশনারনা লেপকনি । 


R. C. Chaulbury . 
Deputy Cominissioner, Manipur . 


নিলাম তৌগদবা পাৎ । 


ক্রমিক 
নং 


পাৎ নম্বর অমসুং মমিং । 


হৌজিক পাল্লিবা পটাদারগী মমিং অমসুং লৈম । 


কুমশিগ ১ বা কিস্তিগমলে 
পংমল সৱাৎপা শেল 


৪ 


৫ 


১ 


৭২ উত্রা পাৎ 


১৩৬৫ 


৮২ , 


১ 


২ 


৮৪ ঙাইখােং খুনৌ তুলে । 


১২৫ 


২৫ , 


( ১ ) ওইনাম তোমাল সিং , 
( ২ ) তােংব্ৰম অহাে সিং , 
( ৩) লােইতােংষম হেরালাে সিং 

সাং নখোল নাওরেম । 
কোঞ্জেমবাৰু সিং 
সাং লেমপােকপম । 
১। খােমাম পাকচাও সিং 
২। য়াংলেম গােকুল সিং 

সাং খােইােন শুনে । 
চুংখাম লৈখম সিং 
সাং গুমনাম লৈকাই । 


৯ উক্রাপাৎ । 


৭২ , 


৫ । 


s 


: ৮৫ ) 


৯২৫ 


৯০-৯৩ বীরহরি কোম 
লৈশেখী, লৈহাওপা কোম , 


নাচৌ তুলে । 


১৫ 


২৫ 


৩ 


১৮০০ 


৯৫৩৮৯ নিংথেখােধ তুলে , এলাম নৌতুনােসিং সাং লাংমৈদোং । 

খুল খােছ । 
১০১-১০৬ হৰী খে 

ওইনাম অমুখােদাসিং সাং মােইয়াং কিয়াম লৈকাই । 
নচিংবা 
মােইরাং পাৎ ৭ খক । 
১৮১১৮ থালা চীংক খাও। ১। নিংখেজন ইকােহলসিং 
पगा । 

২। হাবিজম মাইল 
৩। খােইনােম চুরাসিং 

৪। সলাম ইৰােহলসিং সাং থালা বস্তি । 
১১১ কী কাংশে বী । খােদ্ৰাম বিলিং সাং কাকৈলে । 
১১২ উঙাবেন । 

১। নিংথৌতম মনিসিং জানলেন 

২। চুংখাম লৈখসিং মুয়াম লৈকাই । 
হাওক 

১। অমােম সুরসিং সাং ৱাত 
১১৩৩৬ 

৪। লোকে যাবলি সা যাও । 


৭৭৫ 
১৯২ 


১৯৫ 


৩৫ 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 23 , 1955 . 


নিশাৰ চেগদবা পাৎ । 


৪ 


৫ 


==== 


১১ 


ที่ 
2 


১৭০ 


~ 


৭ 


১৪ 


১৫ 


১৭ 


৭৬২১ 


२० 


২২ 


২৪ 


২৬ 


১২৩ খুল্লাক পাং ময়াং ইচ্ছাল | লাইমমুম পরমেশ্বর শৰ্ম্মা সাং ময়াং ইস্টাল । 

৭০০ 
১২৮ শৈতাং পাং । নিংথৌজম কাসিলিং সাং ময়াং ইম্ফাল । 

২,৬২৫১ 
১৩৭ চিরাই ইতুপ । 

অবদুল হেলিম মিয়া পিং 

খুৰােং হাজি সাং ইরােং চেছ । 
১৩৮ চরং কম্পনি ইতুপ 

৪৫ ১ 
চুংখাম লৈখমসিং সাং সুমনাম লৈকাই । 
১৪৭ ফোগাকচাও ইতুপ । সনাতন মিয়া পিং মৃ : চাওবা মিয়া 

১,৯০০ 
সাং ফোগাকচাও । 
১৪৯ অরোং ইতুপ গুমনাম চাওয়াইমাসিং যুমনাম সুইড্রোম 

১,৯৫০১ ৯৭৫ 
১৫ • ঙ ইতুপ খােমড্রাম বিংসিং কাকৈথেল 

১,৫২৫১ । 
১৫৫ নিঃথিবা খােং ১। সম্বানুম মধুমঙ্গলসিং 

১৬,৩৩০১ ৮,১৬৫১ 
২। ক্ষেত্ৰিময়ুম খােমৈসিং থৌবাল লৈংথেম । 
১৫৯ লৈমনাই পাং মাইম নিংথৌজম কালিসি সাং ময়াং ইম্ফাল 

৯,৭০০১ ৮১৭১ 
কোনজিন 
১৬০ ইকোপ পাং ১। ক্ষেত্ৰিময়ুম খােমৈসিং 

১৭,০০০ ৮,৫০০১ 
২। লাংপােকলাকপম মনিসিং সাং থোবাল 
১৬১ খপাৎ ১। এলাংবম য়াইমাসিং সাং শেকাইজিন 

৩৫,৭৫০ , ৭,৭৫ 
। সনাতােগা মিয়া পিং সিদিক আলি মিয়া সাং 

ধেরগাও 
১৬৫ সমজাওখােৰ ১। যুমনাম চাওয়াইমাসিং 

৫,৯০। 

২,৯৫০ 
২। মাইম আইসিং সাং হিয়াংলম 
১৬৬ পুমলেন পাৎ থােকচোম নীলকমলসিং সাং শিংজমৈ থােকচোম ১০,৩০ 

৫,১৫০ , 
লৈকাই 
১৬৭/৩৮৫ খােঙাম ধলাংপাং ১। এখােম অনুসিং থোঙাম মম 

১০৭১ 
২। ইয়ােম গৌরহরিসিং 
১৬৯ চাইবেল নােয়াই খােং খােকচোষ নীলকমলসিং সাং শিংজমৈ 

১,২২০ ৬১০ 
১৬৯ এ চাইলে ত্রোংলাবী ৯। খােমাম বীধুসিং 

৪। চন্দ্রমনি খুল্লাকপা সাং চাইবেল । 
১৭১১৭২ চাইলে অমসুং ১। হাওমােম তােনসাসিং রাঙ , 

৭৬০ 
নং ইতুপ 

২। ফুরাইলাংপম নীলচন্দ্ৰ শৰ্মা সাং কৈশামখােং । 
১৭৫ চোমলাং কোম বাইখােং থােকচোম নীলকমলসিং সাং শিংজমৈ । 

নিংথোনাই 
১৭৬ খানপােক মনিংপাৎ 

লাইফ কিপম মনিকচালসিং সাং এলাং খানপােক 
১৭৭ ককাই পা ১। ময়েবম তােলচৌসিং 

১,১৫৫১ 
২। যুমনাম অঙেী , লামৈদো 
১৮২ হিরামৈ তুলে ১। থােকটোম দরেসিং সাং শিংজমৈ, 

২। মাইম নাউলশিং সাং হিয়াংলম । 
২০৫-২০৬ খােজাই তুরেল মাইস্নাম গােকুলসিং সাং থামৈবন্দ । 

৪৫ 
২২৫ বাইথৌ ফুমনােম নাওরেম নাগেশ্বরসিং সাং নাওরেম সৈকাই । ১১.২০০১ ১৫,৬০০ 
২২৭-২২৯ থােংখা ১ সুং শুপত্ন | মুয়াম ইবােতোনসিং সাং ঘেবাল কিয়াম । 

২,০০০ ২০০ 
কারাে 
২৩১ উশােইপােকশ অবদুল মিয়া তুলে অহনী । 

৫,২০০১ ২ , ৬ •• 
২৩৩ লিনচিক পাৎ সনসম তােৰীলিং হৈরাঙ্গোইথােৰ । 

৬৭০১ ২৮ 
২৩৬ পােইরো পাৎ ১। ওইনাম কাঙ্গাইলিং 

৭,৬৬০ ২৬৩ 
৪। লােইতােম তােনশিং 

৩। খেত্রিময়ুৰ কীর্কিলিং সাং অংথা । 
২৪৩ চীংকং ইতুপ থােকচোম চন্দ্ৰহাসসিং সাং থোবাল খেৰি লৈকাই । 

৪০০ । 
২৪৯-২৫০ ককয়াই মেখে 

২২০ 
২৫১ জমেংখাে মরিল 


৫৭ 


৫৫১ 


২৯২১ 


২৮ 


৬০০১ 


৩২ 


৫৭১ 


১৪৫১ 


৩3 


৩৭ 


৩ 


అని 
৪ 


৪১ 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 23 , 1966 . 


নিলাম তৌগদা পাৎ । 


૨ 


3 


৫ 


- 


৪২ 


১৩০ 


৩০ 


২৪৪ বিষ্ণুসেনা ইতুপ 
২৮৬ শঙ্করদেব 


থকে মিয়া য়াইরিপােক সিঙ্গা 
১। বাহেবম শকথাসিং 
২ । 

তােনাসিং, অনাপতি 
মাইজাম ফৈজা সিং , খুয়াই কোনসম লৈকাই । 


১০৪ 


১৪ 


২ খাবােই নালা 


২৩৫ 


৯৫ 


৩৯৬ ধমলাং ৎ 


২৫ , 


১০৮ 


• 


৪৬ 


৪৫ । 


২৯২ কোং ইপ 
২৯৪ মখা কোবা 


১৭৫ ) 
१२० 


৪৭ 


৩৬০ 


৪ 


৩২৫ অমােমক 


২২৫ 


৪৯ 


৩৩৭ খাবক খােং ঝাংজিং 


১৬৫ 


৬৫ 


তােইজম কুলচ , কোব ক্ষেত্রি লেকাই । 
সনসম ভােম্বী, হৈরাজোইথথাৎ 
১। ঋইরাকপম তোমাসিং সাং থম্নপােকন , 
২। হেমাম মাঙ্গোলজাও 

মােইরাং 
৩। ফাইরেম ইবোল 
হৈখাম চাওতােন, বাংজিং 
১। সুমনা লৈখাসিং 
২। থােকচোম নীলকমল, শিংজমৈ 
লাে জম খােলেনসিং সাং খাই নাগা মপাল 
১। শাভােকপম পলেগিং 
২। কোইজম থােই , সিপাই 
বাংজম খােমলোনসিং, যৌবাল খেকমল । 


৫০ 


৩৫-৩৬১ মমাংপাৎ ভাংলেং 


২০০ 


১০০ । 


৯০০ 


৪৫০ 


৪ কামলৌখাে ; শাইতাবী 
৩৮৮ চখােং 


৩৯৮ রাঙ, হিরমপাং 


২৫ 


NOTICE 


are 


one 


Imphal, the 16th June , 1955 . 
No. CA / 6 / 55 ( iii)-5 . - Applications invited for two temporary posts of 
Lower Division Clerk and one Typist in the Manipur Secretariat in the scale of 
Rs. 65-3-118-4-130/ - plus usual Dearness Allowance . The term of appointment will 
be terminated according to the orders of the Government issued from time to time. 
Candidates for the post of Typist must possess a minimum typing speed of forty- tive words 
per minute. None need apply who has not passed the I.A. or 1.Sc. Examination of 
& recognized University . 

Applications stating ( 1 ) age attained on 1.6.55 , ( 2 ) Educational qualification with 
division in which they passed the said Examinations, (3 ) previous experiences with 
testimonials if any, ( 4 ) full address and (5 ) typing speed per minute in the case 
of candidates for the post of typist should reach the undersigned on or before 7th 
July , 1965 . 

T. Kalachand Singh , 
Asstt . Secy , to the Govt. of Manipur. 


Notice No: ৪ / TE of 1956 . 

Imphal, the 21st June , 1955 . 
Applications stating Educational qualifioation supported by certificates , age , Home 
Address and previous experiences in Teaching line ( if any ) are invited for the post 
of one acting Head pandit at Kangvai Govt. U. P. Sobool @ Rs. 40-1-50EB - 27-65 
p.m. plus 1.A. for 3 months from 1-7-55 and will be received by the undorsigned 
upto 31-6.55. Preference will be given to matriculates . 

N. Modoli, 
Deputy Inspector of Schools , 

( Tribal) Manipur. 


6 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 23 , 1985. 


NOTIFICATIONS 


Dated Shillong , the 3rd June , 1955 . 
No. TM.2 / 14 /54 / 7 . 
Subject :-Draft Correction to the Central Government Compilation of the 

Treasury Rules, Vol. 1 , First Edition , Second Reprint. 
An advance copy of draft correction to Central Government Compilation of Tres 
sury Rules. Vol. I , Second Reprint is published below for information of all treasury 
and sub - treasury officers aud Central Heads of Departments. 


Amitabha Gbosh . 
Asstt . Accountant General, Assam . 


Draft correction to the Central Goverument Compilation of the Treasury Rules . 
Vol. I ( First Edition , Second Reprint ). 

No. 188 

Page 234 Rule 764 . 
Delete " fullstop and inverted comma" at the end of the volume 4 as inserted by 
Correction Slip No. 179 and insert the following at the ead 

“ in the form prescribed in the above rule " 


Dated Shillong , the 3rd June , 1955 . 
No. TM / 10 /55 /8. - Consequent on the separation of accounts from audit in respect 
of Food , Rehabilitation and Supply Departments of the Government of India all payments 
relating to the Food , Rehabilitation and Supply Miuistries of the Goveromunt of 
India from April , 1955 (Payable in May 35 ) onwards will be made by the Soparated Pay 
and Accounts Offices by Bank Drafts. Receipts relating to these Departments will 
however, continue to be credited at the treasuries as before and such credits will 
be passed on to the Pay and Accounts Officers by this office weekly by means of 
Bank Drafts . 

In Order, therefore , to enable this office to settle the transactions on account 
of Food , Rehabilitation and Supply Ministries weekly with the Pay and Accounts 
Officer concerned the Treasury Officers in Assam , Tripura and Manipur are hereby 
requested to furnish this office with a statement showing the transactions relating 
to these ministries arising at their treasuries in Form T. A. 47 on the 8th , 18th 
24th and the last day of each month accurding to the provisions of Art 117 of 
the Account Code , vol. II. 

S. N. Bhuyan , 
Assistant Accountants Officer , Assam . 


Imphal, the 21st June, 1955 . 
No. 3 / JS / II /53-86 .-- It is hereby notified for general information that pursuant 
to Section 20 of the Societies Registration Act XXI of 1860 , an Association undor 
the name and style of the Manipur Baptist Convention has been incorporated and 
numbered 

No. 3 of 1965-56 dated the 21st June of the year one thonnad 
nipe kundred and fifty five Anno Domini. 


28 


U. M. Sinha , 

Registrar, 
Join : Stick Companies , Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 23 , 1958 . 


N 


TENDER NOTICE . 


. 


Imphal, the 20th June , 1955 . 
Sealed tenders are invited for the supply of the following racks for the use 
in the Sericultural Farm at Chingipeirong. Tenders will be received by the undersigned 
upto 1 P.M. of 7-7-55 and the same will be opened before the tenders on the same 
date. tupply is to be completed within 15 days from the date of signing the agreement . 
Full particulars can be had from the office during office hours . 

10 % of the accepted amount will have to be deposited as caution woney by 
the successful tenderer which will be refunded after completion of supply and acceptance 
by the undersigned . 
1. Rack 

14 x2] each 4 Nos . without polislı. 
2. Rack 

size 12 x21 each 8 Xos . without polish . 
The articles should be of seasoned Uningthou . 

U. M. SINHA, 
Director of Industries , Manipur. 


Bize 


: 


৮ 


Proclamatiou under Section 19 of the Provincial Iosolvency Act V of 1920 . 
IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL COMMISSIONER : MANIPUR AT IMPHAL . 

Notice is hereby given that the undermentioned person have applied to this court 
to be adjudicated iosolvent, and that his application having been admitted will be 
heard on the date specified in column 4 of tbe statement below . Any creditor 
wishing to oppose the same muy appear on the data fixed either in person or by 
# Pleader : 
No. of the case Name, Parentage, occupation and place of residence Date fixed for 

of tl.e 

hearing the 
Petitioner . Creditor. 

application. 


1 


3 


9 of 1955 . Laisangbam Kamando R. K. Bhaskar Singh 

1755 . 
Singh slo Chaoton Singh of Wang khei Leikai 
of Bamdiar Basti, P. S. P. S. Imphal. 

Imphal 
Given under my hand and the seal of the Court this 15 day of June , 1955 . 

By order of the Court . 

K. B. Singh , 
Registrar , Judicial Commissioner s Court, Manipur. 


নােটিশ নং ১০। 

Imphal, the 11th June, 1955 . 
অসিনা মম ওইদুনা প্রজা পুমা খংহঞ্জরি । 

পুমা খংহৰি । মরমদি - কনাগুনা সুহেং-খােলদাংবদা গাের্ণমেকী শান্ত 
ৰাইৰীগে হায়বদি মখাগী নিয়মশিং অসিথ মইনা থৰক তৌবীগদবনি । 

১। শামু অৱাইমন - এর নাে কানা শিজিন ওইগা নুপা ৩০ , ( ক ) অনুগা বরগ অনিল 
খিজির হায়বদি চংখিবদা বর তােলগা হল্লকপদা কন্যা তােংলবদি সুপ ৪০ (নিফু ) অসি শিদিগদ হপ্তা অ 
কালিলৈ অকিন্ত মতম চানা লাক্তন মথ হায়রি রেট ম ই অইমন থিৰিগদৰনি । 

২। শামু লাকপা মতমদা ফৌ লিখায় অমা , সকু মঙা, মউ কপা মতম শােয়দ পিবিগবনি । 
৩। করিও নােং - চি দুনা শামু হন খুদো চাদি মউৎকী চান -থবা পিৰীগৰনি । 

৪। শামু বাইরম্নগা কৰিগুৰা যুম- কৈ মাংদুনা মৈথােকপা ভাবদি খুদা ( অফি ) বিপাের্ট পিৰীগৰনি । 
মৈধ্যে লুমিং অদুদা শামু শংভবদি পৈশা হঞ্জরাই । 

শান্তনা , বাইরিবা মফম আর গৌরগা , করিগুনা মরম আমদী শিজিদ তাৱৰদি , পার্টিন গােভর্ণমেন 
পিবি অাইমন অদু অমুক হঞ্জনােই । 

আর, কে , বিজয়চন্দ্ৰসিংহ , 
কোষ্টে অফিসার, পােভলমেন্ট ও মনিপুর । 


8 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUSE 23 , 1966 . 


NOTICE . 


70 . 


: 
: 
: 
: 


2 


HO 


D. M. COLLEGE , IMPHAL . 

SESSION 1965-66 . 

Imphal, the 20th June, 1955 . 
Tlie College reopens . for the session on the 7th July , 1955 . 
Applications for admission into 1st and 3rd year classes will ha receiver in the 
prescribed forms (available at the college office ) on or before the reopening date of 
the college or within 14 days of the announcement of the results of the Gauhati 
University 

Interview and admission of selected candidates will begin soon after the appoin 
ted dutes. 
Provisional number of seats available in different classes is as follows : 
First year Arts : 

220 . 
First year Science : 
First year Conimerce : 

100 . 
Third year science : 

40 . 
Arts : 

100 . 
Failed or detained students of I. Sc . and B. Sc. cunuot claim their seats 
matter of right. Admission into second and fourth year classes will be 

regu- 
lated as to maintain tbe limit proscribed above for the first and third year classes . 

Fees to be paid at the time of admission : 
( a ) Admission fees ( for new entrants only ). 

I. A. 

Rs. 8 / 
I. Sc . 

10 / 
I. Com . 

10 / 
B. A. 

10 / 
B. Sc . 

12 / 
ib ) Fees for June and July - rate per month same as admission fees . 
( c ) Registration fees ( for non - registered students ) 
( d ) Miscellaneous : 

Common - room and Magazine fee . 
College ( xamination fee . 

2 / 
Games fee . 

2 / 
Science depsit. 

10 / 
Dues to be paid in the hostel on admission : 
( i) Admission fee Rs. 41- ( payable every session ). 
(ii) Establishment fee Rs. 8 / - ( Rs. 24 /- annually , payable in three equal in 

stalments ). 
( iii) Seat Rent — Rs. 8 / - (Rs . 24 /- annually , payable in three equal instalments ). 
( iv ) Light charge. Rs. 2 /- monthly . 
( v ) Mess dues for the current month as will be fixed by the Superintendent 

of the Hostel. 
(vi) Caution money - Rs . 10 / 
(vii) Medical fee - Re. 1 /- ( Rs. 8/- annually , payable in three equal instalments ). 


Rs. 4 / 


:: 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JUNE 23 , 1955 . 


9 


The following combination of subjects are allowed : 
(a ) I. Sc. - English , Vernacular/ Alternative English and Chemistry and any two 
of the following subjects . 

( 1 ) Mathem4tios (2 ) Physics ( 3 ) Botany and (4 ) Biology . 
Meritorious students will be allowed to take up as additional subjects 
any one of the above 4 subjects if not already taken up as com 

pulsory subjects . 
(b ) I. a.- English , Vernacular/Alternative English and any three of the following 

subjects : 
( 1 ) Civics ( 2 ) Logic ( 3 ) History or Mathematics ( 4 ) Commer 

cial Geography (5 ) Commercial Aritbmatic and Book -keeping. 
Meritorions students will be allowed to offer as additional subjects any one of the 
ahove 6 sulijects, if not already offered as compulsory subjects . 
( c ) B.Sc .-- Mathematic Physics and Chemistry . Botany as a subjact has been 

proposed to be opened . Students will be allowed to take up Botany in 
place of any one of the above 3 subjects , if the proposal is accepted by 

the Government , 
(d ) B.A.-HONOURS — In English and Economics . Opening of Honours in Ilistory is 

proposed and the proposal is likely to be accepted by the Government . 
Pass : - English , Vernacular / Alternative English any two of the follow 

ing subjects : 
( 1 ) Economics 

(3 ) Philosophy ( 3 ) History or Mathematics . 
In view of the limited seats available in the Intermediate Science classes admission 
will be jutely on 

C ass of first division students who had either Additional 
Mathematic :s or Mechanica or Elementary Science in the Matriculation Examination will 
primarily lie considered . Suuh students shall have to produce the Uuiversity mark -sheets 
in original along with the application for ndivissiun . Applications of studenty without 
mark -sher s will not be considered . 

A frow seats may be re - erved for the meritorious Girls and backward and Scheduled 
tribe studierte . But in their casg also they must have taken up either Additional Mathe 
matics or 11-3chanics or Elementary Science, aud inust produce mark -sheets in original. 


m rit . 


N. B. SINJIA , 
Offg . Principal, D. M , College , Imphal, 


Imphal, the 23rd June , 1955 . 
The 22nd June, 1955 being a holiday on account of Ratha Jatra there was no 
issue of the Manipur Gazette on that date . 


N. Singh, 
Superintendent , Govt . Press , Manipur, 


Imphal :-Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Press . C. 210 /23-6-55 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 18 - E - 7 


Imphal, Monday , July 4 , 1955 . 


GIOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR. 


Orden by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 30th June , 1955 . 
No. R /Fy/ 11 /51/ 98 .-- The Chief Commissioner is pleased to order the de- reserva 
tion with effect from 1-4-56 of 4 paris of land in the Saipat Forest - cum - fishery 
area as per description below for gettlement to landless cultivators . 

The Deputy 
Commissioner should give preference t., landless cultivators of adjacent villages 
while making settlement of this land . 

Description of land cancelled from the Snipat Fishery . 
North & West. 

Saipat Fishery . 
South . 

Yangoi River. 
East . 

Boundary line of Naorem Village . 


11 


A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


Order No. 21 of 1956 . 


Imphal, the 24th June, 1955 . 
In continuation of my Order 7 of 1956 dated 28th February , 1955 the service 
of Shri Kh . Kunjabihari Singh as Registrar in this Court is allowed to continue 
till the end of February 1956 vice Sbri L. Madhob Chandra Ray appointed as 
Additional Munsiff vide Chief Commissioner s Order No. J /Miso /80 / 50 (a ) dated the 
1st June , 1955 . 

Brij Naruin , 
Judicial Commissioner, Manipur. 


Imphal, the 13th June, 1955 . 
No. H.Cin.4 /65. - The following Orders are published for general information . 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


Government of India , Ministry of Information and Broadcasting Orders 

( 1 ) No. 1 / 16 /65- F : App / 26 dt . 28-4-55 . 

( 2 ) No. 1 / 16 / 55 - F : App /31 dt . 26-4-55 . 
( 1) 8. R. O. In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provi 
sions of each of the enactments as specified in the First Schedule annexed boreto , 
the Central Government, with the previou : approval of the Film Advisory Board , 
Bombay , hereby certifies films specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed 
hereto , in all their language versions, to be of the description specified against each 
in column 5 of the said Sesond Sobedule . 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 4 , 1958 . 


8 . 


5 


The First Schodulo 
1. Sub -section ( 4 ) of section 18 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (Central Act 

XXXVII of 1952 ). 
2. Sub - section ( 3) of section 5 of the Andhra Cinemas (Regulation ) Act, 1955, 

(President s Act 4 of 1966 ) 
3. Sub -section ( 3 ) of section 5 or the Assam Cinemas (Regulation ) Act, 1953 

( Assam Act XIV of 1953 ). 
4 . Sub -sectson ( 3) of section 5 and section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas (Regu 

lation ) Act , 1963 ( Bombay Act XI of 1953 ) . 
5. Sub - section (4 ) of section 5 of the Bihar Cinemas ( Regulation ) Act , 1954 (Bihar 

hct XV of 1964). 
6. Sub - section (4 ) of section 5 of the Madhya Pradesh Cinemas (Regulation ) 

Act, 1982 (Madhya Pradesh Act XVII of 1952 ). 
7 . Sub -section (4 ) of section 5 of the Orissa Cinemas (Regulation ) Act 1964 

(Orissa Act II of 1954 ) 
Sub -section (4 ) of section 5 of the Punjab Cinemas (Regulation ) Act , 1952 

(Punjab Aot XI of 1952) 
2 . Sub -section (4 ) of section 5 of the Hyderabad Cinemas (Regulation ) Act , 

1952 (Hyderabad Act XLVI of 1952 ) 
10 . Section 6 of the Madhya Bharat Cingmıs ( Regulation ) Act, 1953 (Madhya 

Bharat Act 15 of 1953) 
11. Sub - section ( 4 ) of section of the Mysore Cinemas (Regulation ) Act , 

1962 (Mysore Act XXXI of 1952 ) 
12 . Sub -section (4 ) of section 5 of the PEPSU Cinemas ( Regulation ) Act, 1954 

(PEPSU Act 7 of 1954 ) 
13. Section 6 of the Rajasthan Cinemas ( Regulation ) Act , 1962 (Rajasthan Act 

XXX of 1952) 
14. Sub- section (4 ) of section 5 of the Saurashtra Cinemas (Regulation ) Act , 
1953 ( Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953 ). 

The Second Schedule . 
S. No. Title of the 

Nome of the 

Source of 

Wbetber scientific 
film . producer. 

supply . 

film or a film intended 
for educational purposes 
or a film dealing with 
nows apd current events 

or a documentary film . 
1 . 

Indian News Govt . of India , Govt. of India , Film dealing with news 
Review No. Alms Division , films Division , and current events , 
441 . Bumbay. 

Bonubay . 
2 . 1 Go East . do 

do 

Documentary film . 

( 1/16/55 F : App / 26 ) 
(2) S. R. O. Io pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued uoder the provi 
pions of euch of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the order of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Bronchcasting No. S. R. O. 
945 dated the 28th April, 1953, the Central Government with the previous approval 
of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay hereby certifies the films mpooified in colana 
g of the Schedule boreto annexed , in all their language versions to be on the 
description specified against each in the corresponding entry of calamans of the 
said Schedule .. 


8 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 4 , 1958 . 


S. No 


Title of the 

film . 


Schedule . 
Name of the Source of supply 

producer. 


news 


Whether a scientific 
film or a film inten 
ded for educational 
purposes or 

& film 
dealing with 
and current events or 
& documentary film . 
Film 

deuling with 
and 

curront 

events . 
Documentary film . 


1 . 


news 


Indian Nows 
Review No. 

346 . 
Pledge for 


Govt. of India , 
Films Division , 

Bombay , 
do 


Govt. of Indir , 
Films Division , 

Bombay. 
do 


2 . 


Piace . 


( 1/ 16 /55 - F : App /81) 


NOTICE No. IS /57 /53 

Imphal, the 23rd June, 1955 . 
Applications stating dame, full address , age, qualifications and previous experience 
are invited for a personal orderly in the scale of pay , Rs. 22-3-281- p.m. with D.A. 

Candidates must be at least middle - passed and of ages between 25 aod 30 . 

Applications will be received by the undersigned upto noon of 7-7-75 . They are 
to attend the office of the Iuspector of Schools , Manipur on 7.7-55 
for interview . 

K. Goura Singh , 
Inspector of Schools , Manipur . 


at 1 p.m. 


Imphal, the 27th June, 1956 , 
Sealed tenders for the supply of the following motor parts and fitting of the 
name to the Police Jeep No. 1098 MNS will be received upto 20-7-55 . It is not 
obligatory for the undersigned to accept the lowest or any tender . 
Name of parts and materials for fitting . 

Aprox . quantity 
1 . Resinous cloth 

2 yds. 
2. Screw with washer 

25 
3 . Jabra 

3 
4 . White tap 

1 roll . 
6 . Rubber Pillow seat ( size to be seen at office ). 

3 
6. Wiper 
7. Dust board rubber lining . 

3 ft . 
8 . Pieces of wood for the bumper and wind screen 

1 Cft . 
9. Sewing and fitting charge . 

L. Gopal Singh , 
fur Inspector General of Police , Manipur . 


. 


:::::::: 


1 


NOTICE No. 2 

Imphal, the 27th June, 1955. 
Notice is hereby given for general information that the collection 

season of 
cycle tax for the year 1955-56 runs from the 1st July , 1955 to the 80th September, 
1955. Cycle tax payable for the year 1955-56 should be paid during the collection 
Sayon . A late payment find of As.- /8 /- (aonas eight) shall be imposed on persons 
paying tax after the last date of the collection 83ason . 

R. K. Snahal Singh , 
Taxation Officer, Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 4 , 1968 . 


4 . 


8 


& 


Imphal, the 25th June , 1955 . 
The following notification is published for general information : 

T. Kipgen , 

Secretary to the Government of Manipur . 
GENERAL CONDITIONS OF GRANT- IN - AID . 
1. Every Aided Schcol must be conducted in accordance with the Rules and 
Orders of the Education Department 

2 . The curricula , as notified from time to time by the Education Department, 
must be followed and text books selected from the list of approved text books, 

3. The appointment, confirmation and dismissal of teachers must be approved , 
in the case of High Schools by the Inspector of Schools , and in the case of schools 
of lower grade by the Deputy Inspector of Schools . 

In the latter case an appeal may be made to the Inspector of Schools whose 
decision shall be final. 

No building operations must be undertaken until the plans and estimates 
have been approved by the Department . 

5 . All receipts and disbursements must be entered in the account books of the 
school which shall be open to examination by any authorised officer and copy 
of the audited accounts shouid be submitted annually to the Inspector of Schools. 

6. Grants will be paid inonthly on the basis of a statement in prescribed 
form which shall be submitted by the school authority at the close of each month 
to the Inspector of Schools in the case of High Schools and schools enjoying 
special grants, to the Deputy Tospector in the case of Middle and Primary Schools . 

7. Grants are payable on bills drawn by the School authority in the preecribed 
form and countersigned by the Inspector of Schools in the case of High and special 
schools and by the Deputy Inspector of Schools in the case of Middle and Primary 
Schools . 

8. Surplus funds shall be placed in the Post Office Savings Bank or otherwise 
as approved by the Inspector of Schools . 

No part of the surplus fund shall be spent without the sanction of the Inspector 
of Schools except for payment of the sanctioned staff . 

9. Goveroinent may claim a fair share of any balance at the credit of an aided 
school on its abolition as well as of the sale proceeds of any building , furniture or 
other property for which a grant may have been made . 

10 . The rate of pay fixed by a school, for its teaching staff must receive the 
approval of the countersigning authority . 

11 . The percentage of students passing the Matriculation Examination of a particular 
High School should not fall below prescribed minimum percentage for three consecutive 
years . 

12 . No teacher of an aided Institution shall take part in party or other politics . 
Participation in politics shall include : 

(a ) Holding an office, paid or honorary, in party organisation including 

membersbip of the Executive Committee . 
( b ) Addressing political meetings. 
( c ) Conduoting election campaigas . 

(d ) Taking part in strikes, demonstrations and the like. 
13. Discipline should be properly maintained in the sobcol. 

14. Grant - in -aid will be liable to be withdrawo for broach of any of the above . 
oonditions. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 4 , 1966 . 


6 


NOTICE. 

Imphal, tbe 24th June , 1955 . 
As there is no regular bus or lorry servic : on the road between Churachandpur 
and Thingat, this road will be regarded as a separate route and applications in 
proper forms for one ( sole ) permit to run a combined goods and passenger service 
between these two places will be received upto the 31st July , 1955. The permit 
is subject to the following conditions : 
( 1) The permit will be for one year 

with effect from the 1st August , 
19.5h and may be renewed if satisfactory service is rendered . 
( 2 ) The service may be required to carry maiis and some subsidy may be 

given by Govt . for that. 
( 3) The permit holder should be prepared to ply duily at least one motor 

vehicle along the whole route both ways ( if considered necessary by 
the State Transport Authority , Manipur ). 


L. Gopal Singh , 
Secretary , State Transport Authority , Manipur . 


Imphal, the 18th June , 1955 . 
Proclamatiou under Section 19 of the Provincial Insolvency Act V of 1920 . 

IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL COMMISSIONER : FOR MANIPUR . 
Notice is hereby given that the undermentioned person have applied to this court 
to be adjudicated insolvent, and that his application having been admitted will be 
heard on the date specified in column 4 of the 

tbe statement below . 

Any creditor 
wishing to oppose the same may appear on the data fixed either in person or hy 
a Pleader : 


No. of the case 


Namc, Parentage , occupation and place of residence 

of the 
Petitioner. 

Creditor . 
2 

3 


Date fixed for 

hearing the 
application . 

4 


. 


1 


3 of 1965 . Koijam Tombi Singh s / o 1. Chanaubam [ bomcha 

Akhiljit Singh of Thang Siegh , s/o late Ningtbou 
meiband Meisnim Leikai, jao Singh of Bishenpur, 
P. S. Imphal. 

P. S. Bishenpur. 
2. Elang bam Jatra Singh 
s/ o Angahal Singh of 
Thangmeiband Kabram 
bam Leikai, P. S. Imphal. 
3. Wangkhem Indramani 
Singh , s /o late Chroton 

15-7-55 . 
Singh of Thangmeiband 
Meisnam Leikai 

Leikai P. S. 
Impbal. 
4. Khundrakpam Sajou 
Singh , 8/0 lute Thambou 
Singh of Thangmeiband 
Meisdam Leikai, P. S. 

Imphal. 
Given under my hand and the deal of the Court this 18th day of Juno , 1955 . 

By order of the Court , 

K. B. Singh , 
Registrar, Judicial Commissioner s Court, Manipur . 


6 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 4 , 1958 . 


TENDER NOTICE . 


} arr 


( b ) 


Imphal, the 3rd June , 1955 . 
1 . Tenders are invited by the Officer Commanding . Manipur IndepCoy, NCC, 
IMPIJAL for the supply of the following items of Office and Store furniture . 

(a ) Clothing Store Racks : 

size 6 x 6 x 2 
with 4 sbelves . Uningthou Wood . 

Qty . 6 
First Cl189 , Seasoned . 
Stationery Racks : 
size 4 X 4 x . 

Qty . 2 
as above . 
( c ) Almirah with four shelves 
7 x 31 l with two doors 

Qty . 1 
and locking device . 
( d ) Book ( uses - glass fronted 
3 x 1 x 3 with three shelves 

} Qty . 3 
Wall bracket shelves 3 xl xl 

} Qty 3 
2. Tenders will be received by the undersigaed upto 1100 A. M. on 7 July 55. 
All rates quoted by tonderers will be inclusive of delivery 

delivery charges of the items 
at the Unit Office in D. M. College . 

3 . Final acceptance of tender will be notified to the tonderer concerned who 
will be required to deposit 10 % of the value of the work entrusted to him . 

4 . Full details may be obtained from the undersigned between 10 A. M. and 
2 P. M. on all working days , 

L. H. Hartnett, 
Officer Commanding . 


( e ) 


Imphal, the 28th June , 1955. 
Applications stating age and educational qualifications and past experience etc 
are invited for the following posts . Applications are instructed to 

appear before 
me at my office (« ; 1- P.M . in 8.7-55 along with their applications . 
Name of Posts . 

Pay Scale . 

Romarks. 
1 . One Chowkidar . 

Rs. 22-1-28 / - p.m. 
2 . One Sueeper. 

Rs. 22--28 / - fm . 
Each applicant should state whether he is married and if so , wbether he has 
more than one wife living . 

N. B. Roy , 
Offy . Chief Medical Officer, Manipur . 


Imphal, the 25th June, 1955 . 
No. Try / 44 /54. — The following Press Note issued by the Govt . of India , Mipistry 
of Finance , Department of Economic Affairs , duted Now Delhi the 7th April , 1955 
is republished for general information . 

T. Kalachand singh , 

Asstt . Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 
Sub : -- Extension of facilities for payment of interest on Government secu 
rities in Part B & C States . 

PRESS NOTE . 
With effect from April 15 , 

1955 facilities for drawal of interest on Govt . of 
India Securities will be available at the treasuries and sub- treasuries in Part B 
and Part C States (Except Jammu and Kashmir ) . Holders of Govt. of India Secu 
rities desiring to draw interest at such treasuries may apply to say Públic Debt 
Office of the Reserve Bank of ladia . 
Ministry of Finance (Deptt . of Economic Affairs ) 
New Delhi, Apr 7, 1955 . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 4 , 1966. 


7 


NOTICE . 


D. M. COLLEGE, IMPHAL . 

SESSION 1955-56 . 

Imphal, the 20th June, 1965 . 
The College reopens for the session on the 7th July , 1955 . 
Applications for admission into 1st and 3rd year classes will be received in the 
prescribed forms (available at the college office ) on or before the respening date of 
the college or within 14 days of the announcement of the results of the Gauhati 
University . 

Interview and admission of selected candidates will begin soon #fter the appoin 
ted dates. 

Provisional number of seats available in different classes is as follows :-- 


.. 


First year Arts : 

220 . 
First year Scienci : 

70 . 
First year Cuinmeice : 

100 . 
Third year Science : 

40 . 
Arts : 

150 . 
Failed or detained students of I. Sc . and B. Sc. canuot claim their seats 
matter of right. Admission into second and fourth year classes will be regu 
lated as to maintain the limit prescribed above for the first and third year classes . 

Poes to be paid at the time of admission : 
(a ) Admission fees (for new entrants only ). 


as 


8 


SO 


I. A. 
1. Sc . 
1. Com . 
B. A. 
B. Sc . 


Rs. 81 

10 / 
10 / 
10 / 
12 


3 


:: 


i: 


íb ) Fees fur June and July -- rate per month same as admission fees . 
( c ) Registration fees ( for non - registered students ) 

Rs. 41 
( d ) Miscellaneous : 

Cowmon - room and Magazine fee . 
College examination fee . 

2 / 
Games fee . 

2 / 
Science depisit . 

10 / 
Dues to be paid in the liostel on admission : 
(i ) Admissiou fee Rs. 4 / - ( payable every session ). 
(ii) Establishment fee Rs. S /- (Rs. 24 /- annually , payable in three equal in 

stalnents). 
( iii) Seat Rent — Rs. 8/- (Rs . 94 /- annually, payable in three equal instalments ). 
( iv ) Light charge. Bs . 2/- monthly . 
(v ) Mess dues for the current month as will be fixed by the Superintendent 

of the Hoste ). 
( vi) Caution money - Rs . 10 / 
(vii ) Medical fee - Re. 1 /- ( Rs. 3 /- annually , payable in thres equal instalments). 


MANIPUR - GAZETTE , JULY 4, 1965 . 


The following combination of subjects ar. allowed : 
(a ) I. Bc. - English , Vernacular / Alterna ive Fnylish and Chemistry and any two 
of the following subjects. 

(1 ) Mathematio : ( 2 ) Physics (3 ) Botany and ( 4 ) Biology . 
Meritorious students will be allowed to take up as additional subjects 
any one of the above 4 subjects if not already taken up As oom 

pulsory subjects. 
( b ) I. 4. - English , Vernacular /Alternative English and any three of the following 

subjects : 
( 1 ) Civics ( 2 ) Logic ( 3 ) History or Mathematics ( 4 ) Commer 

cial Geography ( 5 ) Commercial Arithmatic and Book - keeping . 
Meritorious students will be allowed to offer as additional subjects any one of the 
above 6 subjects, if not already offered as compulsory subjects. 
(c ) B.Sc. - Mathematic Physics and Cbemistry . Botany as a subject has been 

proposed to be opened . Students will be allowed to take up Botany in 
place of any one of the above 3 subjects, if the proposal is accepted by 

the Government. 
( d ) B.A.-HONOURS- In English and Econo dics. Opening of Honours in History is 

proposed and the proposal is likely to be accepted by the Government . 
Pass : - English , Vernacular / Alternative English any two of the follow 

ing subjects : 

( 1 ) Economics (2 ) Philosophy ( 3 ) History or Matbematics . 
In view of the limited seats available in the Intermediate Science classes admission 
will be purely on merit . Cases of first division students who had either Additional 
Mathematics or Mechanics or Elementary Science in the Matriculation Examination will 
primarily be considered . Such students shull have to produce the University mark - sheets 
in original along with the application for admission . Applications of students without 
mark - sheets will not be considered . 


A few seats may be reserved for the meritorious Girls and backward and Scheduled 
tribe students . But in their cases also they must have taken up either Additional Mathe 
matics or Mechanics or Elementary Science , and must produce mark - sheets in original. 


N. B. SINHA , 
Offg . Principa !, D. M. College, Imphal, 


Imphal, the 4th July , 1956 . 
The 29th June , 1955 being a holiday on account of Purna Jatra there was no 
issue of the Manipur Gazette on that date . 


N. Singh , 
Superintendent, Govt . Press , Manipur . 


Jemphal :- Printed and published by the Superintendent, Governmeat Prous . C. 800 /4-7-85 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


LAT 


नयमन 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 19 


Imphal, Wednesday , July 6 , 1966 . 


CONTENTS 


Pago 


Page 


1 


Part 1.-- Appointments , l ostings, Transfers, Powers, 

Loave and other personal notioes, 
Part 11.-- Resolutions, Rognlations, Orders , Notif 

cations, Rules etc. 


Part III. - Orders , Nctifications, Rules of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV .- Advertisements and Noticos etc. 


Nil 
5 to 10 


1 to 5 


PART I 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Impbal, the 1st July , 1955 , 
No. I-MD / 36 /55 /83. - In continuation of this Administration Order No. I-MD / 36 / 56 /51 
dated the 21st May , 1956 the Chief Commissioner is pleased to extend the term 
of luave granted to Dr. A. ( . Kapur, Chief Medical Officer , Manipur for another 
one month . 

During the absence of Dr. Kapur on leave the officiating arrangemont made in 
the above mentioned order will continue . 

G. H. Singb , 
Asstt . Sooretary ( Home) to the Govt. of Manipur . 


PART I 

Imphal, the 27th June , 1950. 
No. C -HDE / 102 / 53 / 120. - The Chief Commissioner is pleased to make the follo 
wing rules for tbe award of High School scholarships in Manipur : 

Rules for the award of High School scholarships in Manipur . 
(1 ) Every year on the result of Middle School competitive examination , 11 
(eleven ) sobolarships of the valuo of Rs. 7 ( Rupees seven ) each per month payable 
for 12 months in each year will be awarded of which 6 ( six ) will be for opeu 
compotition , 2 (two) reserved for girl students and 3 (three) for 

students and 3 (three ) for tribal students . 
(2 ) The scholarships will be tennble for 4 (four ) years in any recognised High 
School subject to good conduct and progress. 

( 3 ) Candidates must not be over 16 (sixteen ) years of age. 

(4 ) The Chief Commissioner will be the authority to grant or withdraw the 
scholarship . 

( 5 ) In any particular year if there is no suitablo candidate to wlioin a reserved 
scholarship can be awarded the Chief Commissioner may give the available schular 
ship to any other deserving candidate . 

(6 ) . The results of the scholarship -holders in each terminal Examination should 
be intimated to the Inspector of Schools by the Head Masters of the High Sobools 
concerned along with reports on their attendance ; the scholarship may be withdrawn 
by the Chief Commissioner on the grounds of inadequate progress of the holders 
or their misconduct , and the decision of the Chief Commissioner shall be final 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 6 , 1955 . 


OR DE R. 


Impbal, the 26th June , 1968 . 
Subject : -- Tribal Welfare – Constitution of Advisory Committees. 
No. G -Hill.41 / 54.— The following umendment is made in the Constitution of the 
Ceotral Advisory B.Jurd cocotituted in the Chief Commissioner Order No. G -Hill . 
41/54 dated 13th June, 1956 . 

A. CENTRAL BOARD . 
( 1 ) Chief Commissioner . 

Chairman . 
( 2 ) Assistant Secretary 10 the Govern 
ment ( Tribal Welfare ) 

Secretary 
( 3 ) Secretary to the Guvernment, 
Home & Development Departments . 

Member . 
( 4 ) Deputy Commissioner . 
( 6 ) Adviser Shri A. Daiho. 
(6 ) Adviser Dr. L. Kampu . 
(7 ) Shri Rishang Keishing , M.P. 
(8 ) L. Jogeswar Singh , M.P 
( 9 ) Ng . Tompok Singh , M.P. 
( 10 ) 

Teba Kilong . 
( 11) 

S. L. Lunzeh . 
( 12) 

Angnal. 
( 13 ) M , K. Shimray . 
( 1 ) Zinlakpou Kabui. 


17 


T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


Imphal, the 1st July , 1955 . 
No. J -FR . 25/54 ( A ).-- The Chief Commissioner is pleased to fix the r.ste of 
royalty on teak as under : 
( 1 ) Less thau 6 yirth 

Re. 1/ - (One rupee ) per c. ft . in the log . 
( 2 ) Not less than 6 girth 

Rs . 1 / 8 / - ( One rupee & eigbt annas) 

per c . ft . in the lug . 
The cubic contents of logs will be calculated according to the 

to the usual Forest 
Department practice . 
This order will bave immediate effect . 

By order. 

G. H. Singh . 
Asstt . Secretary (Home) to the Govt. of Manipur. 


NOTIFICATION No TM.27 / 55 / 10 . 

Shillong , the 14th June, 1956 . 
Subjeot :-Opening of new major head . 
It is hereby notified for the information and guidance of all the trousury and 
the sub-treasury officers in Assam , Tripura and Manipur that the President has 
approved of the opening of two temporary major heads " Pension Fund (Pondicherry )" 
and " unemployment Fund (Pondicharry ) in Section 8 - Deposit and Advanobs - Part 
II - Deposit not bearing interest ( B ) Reserve Furds” . 


8. N. Bhuyan . 
Assistant Acoounts Officer . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 6 , 1955 . 


3 


Imphal, the 6th June, 1956 . 
No. J/4 /55. — The Chief Commissioner, Manipur, is pleased to approve the rules 
regarding the fees piyable to the leg.il practitioners frained by the Judicial Commis . 
sioner under Article 227 of the Constitution of India read with Artiole 6 ( B ) of 
the Judicial Commissioner s Courts (Declaration as High Courts ) Act, 1950) . 

This order shall come ints force wich immediate effeot . 


A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


000 


1 


99 


LEGAL PRACTITIONER S FEES . 
Rules regarding the fees payable to Legal Practitioners framed by the Court of the 
„ Judicial Commissioner , Manipur under Art. 227 ( 3 ) of the Constitution of India . 

1 . The fee to be allowed on taxation in any contested suit for tho recovery 
of specific property or a share of a specific property , whether movable or immovable 
or for breach of any contract for damage , or in a Land Acquisition case or a 
tested application for probato or letter of ad uninistration , on an appeal, contested or 
uncontested from an original or appellate decree in a suit shall, subject to the minimum 
of Rs . 30 /- in a suit or an application for probate , or letters of administration or 
first appeal and Rs. 20 / - in a second appeal be an amount calculated on the value 
of the claim in accordance with the following scale . 
( 1 ) On the first Rs. 5000 / 

5 per cent. 
( :-) next Rs. 15,000 / 

2 
( 3 ) 

Rs. 30,000 / 
( 4 ) 

Remainders 
2 . When sich suits are settled , withdrawn, compromised , decided on admission 
of the claim or dismissed for default the fue sball not excee 1 one fourth of the fee 
calculated under Rule 1 unless the Court otherwise direots , subject to the minimum 
of Rs. 20 )/- and subject to a maximum of Rs. 500 /-. 

3 . Where such suits are decided exparte the defendant not entering appearance 
or having eutered appearance not contesting . the few payable shall not exceed ono 
half the fee caloulated under Rule 1 unless the ( ourt otberwise directs, subject to 
a minimum of Rs. 20 / - and maximum of Rs. 1000 / -. 

4. ( 1) In execution and miscellaneous proceedings , or for any matter other than 
that of appearing , acting or pleading in a suit prior to decree, the fou when allowed 
shall not ordinarily exceed the following scale ; 
In the Court of a District or Subordinate Judge 

Rs. 150 / 
In the Court of a Munsif 

Rs. 50 / 
( 2 ) Io # miscellaneous case for the setting aside of an abatement or an ex -parte 
-order or an order dismissing the case for default a fee of Rs. 20 )- shall be allowed in 
the case of first appeal und Rs . 16 / - in any other case . 

Where the Court while disposing of an application for a direction or order 
or write under Art . 226 of the Cop - titution , allows costs not specify the amount of 
Advocates fee , the fee to be allowed on taxation shall be Rs. 30 / 

6. If the suit sha l be decreed for the plaintiff as to part only of his claim 
and as to the ri inainder shall be dismissed or decreed for the defendant the fees 
payable by any party in respect of the fee of his adversary s pleader shall be fixed . 
with reference to the value of that part of the olairn in respeot of which such 
adversary shall succeed , and shall be calculated according to the scale in Rule 1, 


5 . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 6 , 1956 . 


7. If several defendants who have a joint or common interest succeed upon 
a joint defence or upon separate defences substantially the same, not more than one 
pleader s fee shall be allowed , unless the Court shall otherwise order for a reason 
which shail be recorded . If only one foe be allowed the Court shall direct to which 
of the defendants it shall be paid or shall apportion it along the several defendants 
in such manner as the Court shall think fit . 

If several defendants who have separate interest , set up separate and distinct 
defences and succeed thereon , & fee for one pleader for each of the defendants who 
sball appear by a separate pleader may be allowed in respect of his separate interest. 
Such fee if allowed shall be calculatoil with reference to the value of the separata 
interest of each defondant , according to the scalo in Rulo 1 . 

9 . If a reviow rejected after summoning the opposite purty of il , after the admission 
of the review , the former Judgment be upheld , the pleader s fee if allowed to the successful 
party in the review shall be fixed by the Court at an amount which shall not in any C180 
excerd une half of the amount allowed by these Rules in c ce of an origioal decree . 

10. If , after admissiun of a review , the former judgement be reversed , the les 
of tho pleader iu respect of the review if allowed to the party who succeeds in 
review shall not exceed one half the amount allowed by these rules in case of an 
original decree. The fee allowed in respect of the review will be irrespective of any 
pleader s fee which may be included in any costs , in respect of the original suit , 
which may be adjudged to the successful party by the judgment in tho review . 

11 . When the interest of several appellunts is joint not more than one pleader s 
fee shall be allowed , unless the court shall otherwise order for a reason to be recorded . 
If one for only be allowed the Court shall direct to which of the appellants it shall 
be paid or shall apportion it amongst the several appellants in slich apportion as 
it shall think fit 

12 . If several respondents in one appeal appear by separate pleaders in deter 
mining whether several pleader s fee shall be allowed the court shall be guided by 
the principles lait down in Rulo 7 and 8 . 

13. (i) If uoder the provision of Or 41 r 33 the dec : ee of a lower court be 
reversed on appeal and the case be reminded to the lower court to b3 tried upon 
the merits , the lower court on passing the deorno , may allow to the successful party 
such 8 as the court shall consider to be reasonable, not exceeding , hali the 
amount calculated according to the scale in Rulo I on account of his pleader s fee . 
in respect of the re -hearing, in addition to the full amount of his pleader s fee calculated 
according to that scale . 

(ü ) If an appeal be preferred against the decres passed on romand , the fee 
if any , allowed by the appellate court to the party succeeding in that appeal shall 
not , unless for a special reason to be recorded , be less than one fourth nor more 
than half of the amount calculated at the rate mentioned in Rule 1, il , by the decree 
of the appellate court remanding the case, the same party shall have been allowed 
a full ploader s fee in respect of the former appeal in the suit, either absolutely or 
conditionally upon its succeeding upon the remand . 

(iii) If under Or. 41 r. 25 C.P. Code an issue be framed and referred by the 
appellate court for trial by the lower court the appellate court may , if it thinks . 
proper , allow to the party who shall succeed in the appeal such & sum as the court 
shall consider reasonable , not exceeding ball the amount ouloulated at the rate in 
rule 1 for his ploader s fee in respeot of the trial of the issue in the lower court . 
in addition to a full fee , in respect of the appeal caloulated at that rate. 


Full 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 6 , 1966 . 


6 


14. In cases not specifically provided for in this rule including execution appeals , 
appeal from orde s , revision , reference, cases under the Indian Companies Act 1913 
and trstamentary and intestato cases other than applications for probate or letters 
of administration , the fee shall be , if the claim is capable of valuation , be an amount 
calculated on the value of the claim in accordance with the following scale subject to 
the minimum of Rs. 20 / - . 


4 per cent. 


( i ) On the first of Rs. 5,000 / 
( ii 

next , Rs. 45,000 / 
( iii ) 

remainders 


LE 
! 


15. Notwithstanding anythiog contained in this rule the Court may allow it 
| higher fee if in its opinion the fee allowable under the Rules is, haviay regard to 
the circumstances of the case , inadequate or may fur fufficient reason allow a lower 
fee or order that no fee entered in the table of costs of a party . 

16 . No fee with respect to any advicate who does not reside and practice at 
Manipur , shall , unless he is present at the hearing of th “ case or the court hearing 
the case directs otherwise , be included in the taxation of the costs. 

17. In cases in which the subject matter of the claim ( oes not admit of valuation , 
the court shall fix a reasonable fee, regard being had to the time occupied in the de 
cision of the caso and the nature of the questions raised therein . 


BRIJ NARAIN , 
Judicial Commissioner, Manipur . 


PART IV 


Imphal, the 30th June, 1955 . 


TOUR PROGRAMME OF MOBIL DISPENSARY EASTERN HILL RANGE 

FOR THE MONTH OF JULY , 1955 . 
6-7-55 . Imphal to Sairom . 

Milo 

36 . 
7-7-55 . Sairom to Lonte . 

10 . 
8-7-55 . Lonte to Kampangkhunnou . 

9 . 
9-7-55 . Kampangklonnou to Lamjang. 

6 . 
10-7-55 . Lamjany to Narum . 

n . 
11-7-5.1, Halt .- Kharou & other surrounding villager 

to le attend for medicines . 
12-7-55 . Warum to Yongkhun. 

6 . 
13-7-55 . Yongkhun to Keiphom . 

5 . 
14-7-55 , Keiphom to Maothang. 

5 . 
15-7-55 . Maothang to Bongmol. 

6 . 
16-7-55 . Bongmol to Bongli 

5 . 
17-7-65 . Bongli to Klubu . 

6 . 
18-7-55 . Kloibu to Bonaitong . 

7 . 
19-7-55 . Halt . 
30-7-53, Konaitong to Imphal. 

32 . 


N. B. Roy , 
Offg . Chief Medical Officer , Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 6 , 1955 . 


NOTICE. 

Imphal, the 27th June , 1955 . 
No. 46 /C8 / II/ 64-66 . It is hereby notified for general information that, pursuant 
to notion 9 of the Co-operative Societies Act II of 1912, the Naoria Pakhadglakpa 
Village Development Society Ltd. has been registered and numbered as 46 of 1954 
66 dated the 24th June, of the year one thousand pine hundred and fifty five 
Anno Domini. 

U. M. Sinha , 
Assistant Registrar , 
Co -operative Societies , Manipur . 


Imphal, the 30th June , 2.955. 
Applications stating age, Home address , No. of wives living . Name and Father s 
Damno for a temporary pust of Sweeper of the Jobnatone High School , Innphal are 
invited and will be received by the undersigned upto the 16th July , 1958 . 

H. N. Singh , 
Head Master, Johnstone High School 


Imphal, the 25th June, 1965 . 


No. A / TE / 10 /56 / 5781-83. - The following weaving goods may be available in 
the office of the undersigned at the cheapest Govt. rate . Intending officers inay 
indent for the same for their offices as well as for other Govt . establishments. 


1 . Bed sheet , while back ground green border unwashed , size - 88 " x 56 * 
2. Bed sheet white back ground blue border unwashed , 

86 " x 53 
3. Towels white back ground blue border , 

border , unwashed , 

82" X 43 " 
4. Honeycomb chadar, white green plain oback unwashed , 

92" x 45 
5 . 

Chadar white ground Mat Rib Border unwashed , -104 " X 64 " 
6 . Browo white wavy design shirting cloth , unwashed condition Ordinary 
7 . Brown white black chock , shirting cloth unwasbed condition 

do 
8 . Blue and white zig zag sluirting cloth unwashed condition 

do 
9 . Orange and violet stripe short shirting cloth unwashed 

condition 

do 
10 . Table covers, Blue Back ground Bottle design , Finished 

condition - 72 < 489 
11. Blue back ground with white border satin design finished 

condition 

72 X 18 " 
Window curtain blue back ground with 

bottle 

design , finished condition 49 " x 36 " 
13. Door curtain blue back ground with cross bottle design 

in two pieces finished condition , 85 * x 30 " 
14 . Chokolet colour buck ground in blanket sbeat 

Ordinary 


croes 


N. Modoli , 
Deputy Inspector of School, 

( Tribal) Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 8 , 1953 . 


Imphal, the 1st June, 1965. 
No. RH / 18 /51/ 49. - The following Pross Nota received from the Govt. of India is 
republished for general information. 

T. Kalachand Singh , 
Asstt . Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 

BALUCHISTAN . 
List of persons whose household movables are lying with Custodians 

of Evacuee Property in West Pakistan . 

SIBI 
District 
1 . Sbri Harnamsingh , India . 

Leelaram Lakbimal. 
3 . Kalyan Singh , Indit. 
4 . 

Chuni Lal, India . 
5 . 

Chanan Dass , India . 
6 . 

Chuni Lal, India . 
7 . 

Gaiga Bishen , Lawer, Indis . 
8 . Chunilal Gopichand . 
9 . 

Chuta Mal India 
10 . 

Kbuncbi ( l addit ) India . 
11. 

Gird barimal India . 
12 . 

Bebarimal , India . 
13 . 

Naruindas (Hakim ), India . 
14 . 

Mohan Dass (Hakiid ), India . 
15 . Seth Khemchand , India . 
16 . 

Jonki Ram , Iudin , 
17 . Rai Sabib Tikam Dass, India . 
18 . Shri Rals Ram , Bari, India . 
19 . 

Nepamal Sbaukat Rai. 


SIND 
District SUKKUR 


1 . 


Shri Pribhdas s / o Shawaldas . 


1 . 
2 . 
3 . 


1 . 


District HYDERABAD . 
Shrimati Radhabai. 

Jawaharbai, 7754 , S. No. 347813. 
Maharaj Kakan Dass Godown, behind shop 

No. B / 19 -XX 667 , Faujdari Lane , 

Hyderabad , Sind . 
District JACOBABAD . 
Shri Khushmal s /o Wadhumal 

Jugin Chand s /o Tejumal, 
Kishen slo Wadhu Ram . 
Kishin s/ 0 Virbhan Vass . 
Gobind kam s /o Geu Mal 
Balu Singh s / o Wadu Singb , 
Lucha pandass S /o Asodu Mal 
Gulab Mal 8/0 Julborbul 
Tilumal Ghetumal 
Narain Dass s / o Pessumal 
Nandu Mal 
Guvind kam s /o Wadhumal 
Dev Mohsh , Murli Mal. 

LumiMal s /o Atma Ram . 
Dr. Honun Dass . 


4 . 
5 . 
6 . 
7 . 
8 . 

9 . 
10 . 
11 . 
12 . 
13 . 


16 . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 6 , 1985. 


il. 


34 . 


List of persons whose household movables are lyins with Custodians 

of E.P. in West Pakistan : 
JACOBADAS 

SIND 
District Jacababad . 
1. Lodkhraj Dandoo Mal. 
District 

KHAIRPUR 
1. Mahraj Chatroomal. 

19 , Mulchand . 
2 . Lakhimal. 

19. Master ( alliinal , 
3 . Tikano Said -Goth . 

20 . ambumal. 
4 . Moolomal. 

Wadhurui. 
6 . kakoomal. 

22 . Surmomil. 
6 . Narooinal, 

23. Boo omal. 
7 . Sautournal. 

24 . Phagınınal. 
8. Pancbyn i . 

2- . Jiwatmal, 
9. Bbaghumal. 

26 . Jhahwanmal. 
10 . Pe - allial. 

27 . Jashanmual. 
Gopaldass . 

25 . Bhando sieth Panjoonal. 
12. Devanmal. 

29 . Kisharam Bhambhura n lanipur . 
13 . Satramdags . 

:30) . Seth Ilollaram Hindu , Ganibat . 
14 . leormal. 

31 . Seth Pamandass Hindu Gaurbat. 
1.5 . Hemandase . 

32. Reejhomil Topannal Hindu 
16 . Chuharmal 

Gainbat. 
17 . Hukumatmal. 

Duomal and others , 
PRESS INFORMATION BUREAU , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA . 

PRESS NOTE . 
EVACUEE MOVABLE PROPERTY LYING WITH CUSTOOIINIS PAKISTAN . 

Further lists of personal and household goods of displaced persons lying with 
custodians of ovaquee property in West Pakistan have recently been received from 
the Pakistan Government in pursuance of the implementation of the Movable Property 
Agreement . The names of the owners and the districts in which the movables are 
lying are as follows : 

Sibi District : -Harnamsingh , Leelaram Lakhimul, Kalyan Singh , Chuoi Lal, Chanan 
Dars , Chuni Lal, Gaiga Bishen Lawer , ( hunilal Gopichand , Chuta Mal, Khunchi 
(Pandit ), Girdharimal, Bebarimal, 

Bebarimal, Naraindas (Hakim ), Mohan Das (Hakim ), Seth 
Khenichand , Seth Jonki Rani, Rai Sahib Tikam Dass , Rala Ran Bari and Nenamat 
Shaukat Rai. 

Sukkur District : - Pribhdas s / o Shawaldas . 

Hyderabad District : -Radhabai, Jawaharbai and Maharaj Kakan Dags Godown 
Faujdari Lane , Hyderabad . 

Jacobabad District : -- Khushmal s/ o Wadbumul, Jugin Chand s/o Teju Mal, Kishan s/ o 
Wadhu Ram , Kishan s /o Viruhan Dass , Gobind Ram s /o Geu Mal, Balu s /o Kodu Singh , 
Lechmandans 4/0 Agodu Mal Gulab Mal s/o Jethomai, lilumal Chetumal, Naraia Dass 
8/0 Pezsumul, Nandu Mal. Govind Rams/o Wadhumul , Dev Mehah Murli Mal, Luni Mal 
8/0 Atma Ram and Dr. Heman . Dass . 

The owners concerned may now write to the Property Field 
Commissioner for India in Pakistan , Karachi, After obtaining the particulars of their 
movables , the owners should inform him whether they would like their belongings 
to be sent across to lndia . In that event they will be required to bear the neces 
sary transportation charges etc. In case they do not want this to be done, the 
articles will be disposed of by the Pakistan Custodian in the presence of the re 
presentative of the Indian diplomatic missions in Pakistan and sale procee is thereof 
would be handed over to the diplomatic representatives after deduction of 10 per cont. 
os oustodian s fee, in accordance with the provisions of the Morable Property Agreement . 


. 


Officer c / o High 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 6 , 1965 . 


9 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA . 


PRESS NOTE . 
EVACUEE MOVABLE PROPERTY LYING WITH CI STODIAN IN PAKISTAN . 

Further lists of personal and household goods of displaced persons lying with 
Custodians of Evacuee l’roperty in West Pakistan have recently been received from 
the Pakistan Govt. in pursuance of the implementation of the Movable Property 
Agreement . Following is the list showing the napos of the owners and the districts 
in which the movibles dre lying : 

District Jacabab : d : Lekhraj Dandoo Mal. 

District Khairpur : Maharaj Cba rocmal , Lakhimal, Tikano Said - Goth , Moulomul, 
Kakoomul, Naroonial, Santoomal, Panchayati, Bgaghumal, Pessumal, Gopaldiess, Devanmal, 
Satrnindass . Toonmal, Homandass , Chuharmal, Hukumatma!, Mulchand , 

Mulchand , Mastor 
Gabimel, Ambumal. Wadhumal, Sugnomal, Boolomal, Pbagunmal, Jiwatwal, Jhabwan 
mul, Jashanmul, Bhando Seth Padjoomal, Kishara un Bhambharam Ranipur , Setb 
Hollaram Hindu Gambat, Seth Pamandass Hindu Gambut , 

Pamandass Hindu Gambut, Reejhomal Topanmal 
Hindu Gimbit , Deomal and uthers . 

The owners concerned may now write to the Property Field officer c /o the High 
Commissioner for India in Pakistani , Karachi. After obtaining the particulars of their 
movables , the owners should inforın him whether they would like their belongings 
to be sent across to India . in that eveut, they will be required to beir the neces 
B.ury transport charges, etc. In ciso they do not want this to be done , the articles 
will be disposo :1 of by the Pakistan Custodians in the presence of the representative 

the Indian diplomatic missions in Pakistan , and sale proceeds thereof would be 
handed over to the diploin atic representative aft :r deduotion of 10 per cent as Custodian s 
fec , in accordance with the provision of the Movable Property Agreement . 


XOTIFICA TIO N. 


Imphal, the 30th June, 1955 . 
Applications are invited from citizens of the Indian Union for a post of a temporary 
A ccountant in the scale of Rs. 100 ( during probation ) 130-10-250 EB - 15-355 /- plus 
Dearness allowance 17 } % under Manipur State Transport Department , Manipur so as 
to reach the office of the Manager , Manipur State 

State Transport Department on 
before 21st of July , 1955. Present and permanent address, nationality , age, particulars 
of degrees obtained and other qualification and experience of the candidate should 
be mentioned in their applications which should be accompanied by c ,pies of two recent 
testimonials by responsible persone. None need ,apply who is not a Degree or Diploma 
holder in commerce or accountancy and possessos practical experience of accounting and 
audit preferably including commercial acounts , budget, stores accounts , workshop accounts 
and balance sheets . Other things being equal, preference will be given to candidates 
possessing knowledge of local languages and conditions. 

T. KIIGEN , 
Secretary , to the Govt. of Manipur . 


Tender Notice No. 13 


Imphal, the 4th July , 1956 . 
In the 4th line of Paragraph 1 of Forest Dopartment Tender Notice No. 9 dated 
the 7th June , 1955, please read " 18th July , 1956 " for " 27th June, 1968 " . Inten 
ding tenderers may submit tenders upto 2 P.M. on the 18th July , 1955 accordingly . 

R. K. B. C. Singh , 
Forest Officer, Govt. of Manipur . 


.- 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 6 , 1955 . 


NOTIFICATION No. HE ( H ). 

Imphal, the 4th July , 1955 . 
Notice is hereby circulated for the information of the Electors of the Imphal 
Municipality that the voters lists of the Municipal area are being revised and pre 
pared afresh as a result of the amendment of the “ Rules for the Election of members 
of Municipal Boards in Manipur ” as notified under Manipur Government Notifica 
tion No. J / 17 / 51 dated 8-6-58 which was published in the issue of the State 
Gazette on 15-6-55 . Municipal Election Staff will hold sitting in Aach Ward as per 
Programme below for the purpose of revising and preparing the Municipal rolls according 
to the evidence or documents as inay be produced before the Staff by the eligible 
voters. Qualified electors are therefore requested to contact the Municipal Eleotion 
Staff at their respective Wards for any reference or particulars they requiry . 

PROGRAMME. 
No. of Wards .. Date of Sitting . 

Site for Sitting 
V 6th - 12th July , 55 

Gohardhon Sarma’s Shop at 

Singjainei . 
15th - 16th July , 5.5 

l alace Office . 
17th - 19th July , 55 

Bengali High School, Imphal. 
20th - 23rd July , 55 

Keisamthong Kabui Village , 

Impbal. 
IL 26th July , 3rd Aug, 55 ... Mr. Daiho s building , 

Sadar Bazar , Imphal. 
III 

6th - 10th August, 55 Congress Office , Imphal. 
11th - 14th August , 55 Salam Gambhir s Building . 

Maxwell Bazar , Imphal. 
IV 17th - 29th August, 55 

M. G. Hotel, Imphal. 
20th - 22nd August , 56 Quazi Fazlur Rahaman s 

Building , Maxwell Bazar . 
23rd - 25th August , 55 ... Peak Hotel , Imphal. 
Time : - 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. Excluding 
Sundays & Public Holidays. 

T. C. Tiankbam , 
Sr. E.A.C. & Magistrate i/c 

Municipal Election . 


bang 


Imphal, the 4th July , 1955 . 
No. 4 /JS / II/55-66 .-- It is hereby notified for general information that pursuant 
to section 20 of the Societies Registration Act XXI of 1860, an Association under 
the name and style of the Local Christian Residents Society has been incorporated 
and numbered as No. 1 of 1955-56 dated the 4th July , of the year one thousand 
nine hundred and fifty five Anno Domini. 

U. M. Sinha , 

Registrar, 
Joint Stock Companies , Manipur. 


Impbal :-Printed and published by the " Superintendent, Government Prusi . C. 805 6-7-55 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


नयमन 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 20 


Imphal, Wednesday, July 13 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


1 


Part I. - Appointments , Postings , Transfers, Powers, 

Leave and other personal noticos , 
Part II. - Resolutions , Regulations, Orders , Notifi 

cations , Rules etc. 


Part II. - Orders, Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of Jndia , 
Part IV .- Advertisements and Noticos eto . 


Nil 
3 to 6 


1 to 3 


PART 1 
GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 
Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 8th July , 1965 . 
No. RI/ 7 /54 / 7. - The Chief Commissioner is pleased to appoint Shri H. Ibungoyaima 
Singh , E. A. O. as Revenue Assistant with effect from the 28th February , 1955 . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


PART 1 

Impbal, the 2nd July , 1955 , 
No. 2408 -II -PH /86. - The following Notification No. MMD / 25 /53/92 dated the 10th 
June , 1956 received from the Diroctor of Health Services , Assam is republished 
for general information , 

N. B. Roy , 

Offg . Chief Medical Officer , Manipur. 
Io exeroise of the power conferred by sub - section (2 ) of Section 30 of the 
Pharmacy Act , 1948 ( Act No. VIII of 1948), and in supersession of this Department 
Notification No. MMD.197/51/62, dated the 26th September, 1951, the Governor of 
Assam is pleased to appoint the 31st December, 1965 as the last dato on or before 
which applications for registration are to be made to the Registration Tribunal of 
Pharmacists . Assam . Applications should be accompanied by the prescribed fee of 
Rs. 8 / - (Rupees five ) per application . 

Imphal, the 28th June , 1958 . 
No. Tax / 5 / 55. - The following letter No. TM / 38 / 37-38 / 955-968 dated May 1985 
received from the Accountant General, ssam , copy endorsed to the Chief Secretary 
to the Govt . of Manipur under bis Momo No. TM 38 /37-38 /961-71 dated 6-4-66 are 
published for general information . 

T. Kalachand Singb , 

Asstt . Secy , to the Govt. of Manipur . 
Subject :-INDIAN INCOME TAX ACT - 1922 - SECTION 18 (3) 

INTEREST ON GOVT: SEOURITIES - RATES OP 

TAX APPLICABLE IN 1958-56 . 
I am to invite a reference to this office letter No. TM . 38 /37 / 38 / 4544-4574 dated 
the 6th April , 1965 on the subject mentioned above and to state that the Finance 
Bill, 1955 has since been passed into law and no modifications have been made in 
the rates of tax incorporated in the original bill . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , 


Imphal, the 19th 
No. CA /16/55/ 6. - Leuve Account of the Goverorneut Servants goveri ed by the Roxired * 


FORM OF 

(Revipod 
( As modified by M. O. F. No. F. 2 (1 ) 
Name of Government Servant ... 
Domicile ........ 


Date of commencement of 

continuous service ................ 


FARNED LEAVE . 


HALK PAY LEAVE 


Duty . 


Leeve Taken , 


Length of Servico . 


Credit of Les va 


Leaveearned(indays) 


To 


Balanceonretardfromleave 

(colamp:5-9) 


Leireatcreditrindayscolumns 

9+4subjecttothe 

appropriatelimit 


From 


No. of days 


From 


To 


From 


No, ot 
days 


To 


Numberofcompletedyears 

ofservice 


Leureearned(indays) 


Leaveatcredit(colamne26+13) 


-- 


1 


3 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


13 


14 


11 


NOTE 1. -The ucondut of the pudditional leave admissible to omoors of clans and services under the provino to paura 8 of the memorandreher 
NOTE 8.Perioda of Extraordinary leave taken should be noted in red ink in oolamn 27, for returke. 
NOTE 3, - The entries in nolumne 10 & 11 should indicate only the beginning and end of completed your of service at the time the hell pay 

Ina to commencen . In unsan where a Govt. servant completo another your of worvios while on hall pay love tho entra urdit should 
be shown in columns 10 to 14 by making suitable additional entrius and tale akould be taken into sononut when completiak solame 39 


ULY 13 , 1956 . 


[ay , 1958 . 
pre Rules , 1933 ( as liberalised ) to be maintained in the Form No. ATC 24 is published below : 


T. Kalachand Singh , 
Asstt. S :: cretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


A. T. C. 2.- A. 
(Sec Art. 186 , Audit Codo .) 


EAVE ACCOUNT . 

vo Rules , 1933.) 
itt . ( Spl.)/48 dated the 24-2-49.; 


Dale of birth ............. 
Date of compulsory retirement ......... 


ON PRIVATE AFFAIRS AND ON MEDICAL CERTIFICATES . ) 


NNMV 


LORV Taken 


Remark & . 


Arve ou privato Affairs 
ir on medical certificute 


Commutad leave on M. C , on 
full pay ( limited to 180) days in 

entire Mervice . ) 


Balance 
on 
return 
from 
leare 
( 
ools 
, 
1 
+ 
25 
. 
) 


LeAvo not duo on M , C , 
( limited to 180 days in 

antire service 


Commuted 
leave 
converted 
into 
half 
pay 
leavetwice 

of 
col 
, 
20) 


Totalball 
pay 
learetaken 

tools 
. 
17 
+31 
+34 
. 
, 


COM 


To 


No , ef duys 


From 


To 


No. of days 


From 


To 


No. of days 


15 


10 


17 


18 


19 


200 


21 


22 


23 


24 


25 


20 


27 


-- 


- 


NOTE . - Wherever transition from one frotion to another wakes place the credit at that stagne shoald be rounded off to the noardet day , i.o., 

fraotion below helf should be iynored and those of half or more abould be rockoned as a day . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 13 , 1966 . 


2 


Dated , Shillong , the 20th June , 1956. . 
Subjeot Change of nomenclature of certain Sections of Accounts . 
Notification No. TM /10 /56 /11. - It is hereby notified for the guidance and informa 
tion of all the treasury and sub -treasury Officers in Assam , Manipur and Tripura 
that the President has 

accounts viz . 
approved the opening of a new section in 
" NA - Inter State Debt Settlements" within the consolidated Fund of India or State 
with the following major heads : 

(i) India & Pakistan . 
( ii ) India & Burma , 
(iii) Madras and Andhra . 

( iv ) Madras and Mysore . 
The above major heads will close to “ Government ” in the ledger. 

The President has also approved that with effect from the Current Financial 
Year ( 1955-56) the existing Sections. " N - Public Debt to ” V - Cash Balance may be 
re-arranged with new guide letters as follows 

CONSOLIDATED FUND . 
N. - Public Debt. 
0. - Loans and Advances by the Central Government . 
P. - Loans and Advances by State Governments. 
G.- Inter State Debt Settlements , 

PUBLIC ACCOUNT 
R. - Unfunded Debt . 
S.- Deposits and Advances 
T .-- Remittances . 
U .-- Transfer of cash between England & India . 
V.- Reserve Bank Deposits . 
W. - Cash Balance . 

S. N. Bhuyan , 
Assistant Accounts Officer . 


PART IV 


TENDER NOTICE . 


Imphal, the 4th July , 1955 . 
Quotations under sealed covers are invited for painting number plates and also 
painting letters “ Manipur State Police Department ” on both sides of each of the 
Police Vehicles . The sizes of letters and figures are to be the minima prescribed 
for number plates under the M. V. Rules. Tenders will be received in the Police 
Office upto 31-7-55 . 

L. G. Singh , 
for Inspector General of Police , Manipur. 


Imphal, the 9th July , 1955 . 
Tenders are invited for the supply of ( 1) ten smoothing irons ( steel ) and ( 2) 
thirteen letter weighing scales (postal pattern ) for weighing postal articles with 
sets of weights for the Police , Manipur (General Branch ). 

Sealod tenders or quotations addressing to the undersigood will be received upto 
20-7-56 . The tenderer is required to furnish sealed sample also . 
It is not obligatory for the undersigned to accept the lowest or any tender . 

U. C. Malhoutra , I.P.S., 
Inspector General of Polioe, Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 13 , 1965 . 


1 


In 


Imphal, the 6th July , 1956 , 
No. C.HDE / 5 /53. -The following document is published for general infirmation . 

T. Kipgen , 

Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 
(Ministry of Education ) 

( clolarships and Information Division ) 
Sub .-- Particulars regarding a scholarship offered to an Indian national by the Government 

of Switzerland . 

1 . The Government of Switzerland have offered one scholarship for a period 
of one year during 1955.56 to an Indian national for higher Study /Research / in any 
branch of Science / Technology /Engineering at any of the Swiss Universities, research 
establishments or similar Institutions of higher learning. 
2. Other terms and conditions . 

( i ) The amount of scholarship is 500-700 Swiss Frances ( France - 1.089 

Rupees ) p.m. the amount will be fixed by the Swiss Government 
according to the academic standard of the candidate and the pro 

gramme for his studies . 
( ii ) Exemption from tuition fees . 
( iii ) The cost of tourist class Ses passage expenses from India to Switzer 

land and back. will be provided by the Govt. of India . 
( iv ) Selection candidate is expected to reach Switzerland in the beginning 

of October , 1935 . 
3. Tuose possessing Master s degree in Science or a degree or equivalent qualification 
in Engineering / Technology from a recognised university are eligible to apply . Candidates 
above 35 years of age on 1st August, 1955 will not be considered . 

4 . Preference will be given to the candidates knowing German or French language . 
While selecting the candidate , such personal attributes as make him /her especially 
fit for furtherance of international understandiog would be considered as necessary 
qualifications . 

5 , The candidates are required to send the fullowing documents along with 
their applications : 

( i ) Two pass - port size photographs with the signature of the candidate 

on the reverse . 
( ii ) Attested copies of certificatos /diplomus /degrees in respect of the 

qualification claimed ( not returnable ) . 
( iii ) Detailed programme of study which the candidate intends to under 

take in Switzerland . 
( iv ) The curriculum of studies already completed . 
( v ) Health certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner that the 

candidate is of sound physical constitution . 
Prescribed appliontion forms eto . can be had from the Ministry of Education 
( Scbolarships and Information Division ) Section S - 1 New Delbi. The last date for 
the receipt of applications in the Ministry of Education is 20th July , 1958 . No 
application will be considered without a fee of Rs. 5 ( Rs. 1 / 4 /- in the case of 
Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes ) which should be sent 
through the postal order along with application in favour of the Ministry of Education , 
Govt. of India, New Delhi. Amount remitted through money order or cheque will 
not be accepted . 

Applications received after the prescribed date will not be given any consideration . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 13 , 1965. 


NOTICE. 

Imphal, the 28th June , 1955 . 
No. 47 /CS /11/54-55.It is hereby notified for general information that , pursuant 
to section 9 of the Co -operative Societies Act II of 1912 , the Imphal Kabui Hand 
loom More Weavers Co - operativi Prodonction & Salo Society Ltd. has been registered 
and numbered as 47 of 1 : 54-55 dated the 7th June , of the year one thousand 
nine hundred and fifty five Anno Domini. 


Imphal, the 2nd July , 195.7. 
No. 18 /08 / 11 /45-55 . - It is hereby Dutified for general information that , pursuant 
to section 9 of the ( o -operative Societies Act II of 1912 , the Manipur Co -operativa 
Store Ltd. has been registered and numbered as 48 of 1954-55 dated the 28th June , 
of the year ono thousand nine hundred and fifty five Anno Domini. 


Impbal, the 2nd July , 1955 . 
No. 49 / CS / II/54-56 .- ) t is hereby notified for general information that , pursuant 
to section 9 of the Co -operative Societies Act 11 of 1912 , the Mao Fruit and 
Vegetable Growers Co -operative Production Supply and Sale Society Lid . has been 
registered and numbered as 49 of 1956-15 dated the 30th June of the year one 
thousand nine hundred and fifty five Anno Domini. 

U. M. Sinha , 

A ssistant Registrar, 
Co-operative Societies , Manipır. 


Imphal, the 28th June , 1955 . 
No. C - HDE /8 / 55 / 120-25 , -- The following Press Yote dated the 17th June , 1955 
received from the Government of India , Ministry of Education , New Delhi is published 
for general information . 

T. Kipgen , 

Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 
Subject :-Offer of a Fellowship by Unesco to an Indian pational 

for study abroad in the field of Educational Psycho 

logy 1950-56 . 
The Government of India have received an offer of a Fellowship from Unesco to 
enable an Indian national to take up study in the field of Educational Psychology 
at the International Institute of Child Study, Bangkok , Thailand for a period of 12 
months in 1955-56 . 

Candidates should possess at least an M. A. or M. Sc . degree in education , edu 
cational Psychology , cultural anthropology , sociology , social work or psychology , and 
at least five years practical experience in education as teacher , head master training 
college lecturer or in such technical aspects of administration as curriculum planning 
of educational guidance . Only those candidates who possess the above qualifications - 
and are sponsored and recommende:1 by Universities / Comparable institutions/ Central or 
State Governments with guarantee of re-employment will be considered . Full parti 
culars and prescribed application form may be obtained from the above authorities 
of the Ministry of Education , Government of India , Scholarships and Information 
Division ( Section S - 1 ) to whom applications should be forwarded through the sponsoring 
authorities so as to roach on or before the 15th July , 1965 after which dute na 
applioations will be ontertained . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 13 , 1955 . 


6 


NOTICE . 


Imphal, the 8th July , 1955 . 
No. 1 / C3 /11/55-56 /—It is hereby notified for general information that, pursuant 
to section 9 of the Co -operative Societies Act II of 1912 , the Pangaltabi Agri- ul 
tural Credit Society Unlimited has been registered and numbered as 1 of 1955-56 
dated the 2nd July of the year yno thousand nine hundred and fifty five Anno 
Domini. 

U. M. Sicha , 

Assistant Registrar , 
Co-operative Societies, Manipur . 


, 


PRESS NOTE . 


Imphal, the 11th July , 1955 . 
No. AGR /53 /55.- The next sossion for the post-graduata training in the follo 
wing subjects will commence from 1st October, 19.55 . 
1. Two year Courses . 
( 1) Agricultural Botauy with specialization in the 2nd year 

2nd year in (a ) Plant 
Breeding and Genetics , or (b ) Cytogenetics or (c ) Crop Physiology or 
(d ) Genetics and Plant , Breeding ( sugarcane) or (e ) Genetics and Plant 
Breediny (Rice ) ( ii) Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry with specia 
lization in the 2nd year in (a ) Agricultural Chemistry or ( iv) Soil Colloid 
and Clay Minerals or (c ) Soil Miorobiology or (d ) Soil survey and Lund 
Utilization ; ( iii) Entomology with specialization in 2nd year in (a ) Insect 
Toxicology or (b ) Systematic Entomology or (c ) Insect Ecology or (d ) 
Parasitology ; ( iv ) Mycology and Plant Pathology with specialization in 
2nd year in (a ) 

Plant Pathology or ( h ) Systematic Mycology or (c ) 
Viruses or (d ) Plant Bacteriolngy (v) Agronomy or Sugarcane Agronomy 

or Rice Agronomy or Agricultural Extension . 
2. One year Plant Protection Course . 

Intending candidates to join the course will have to apply to the Director of 
Agricultural Research Institute , New Delhi through the Director of Agriculture , 
Manipur. Applications will be received in the Office of Director of Agriculture , 
Manipur up to 30th July , 1955 . 
Applicant should possess a post-graduate degree or 

degree or a good degree not below 
second class preferably further experience in relevent to subject he desires to take up . 

The prospectus together with the prescribed application form for admission can 
be had from the Manager of the Publications , Government of India Publication 
Branch , Civil Lines, Delhi-8, at & cost of annas - /10/ - per copy or may be copied 
out from the Office of the Director of Agriculture, Manipur. 


Gopendra Sarma , 
Publicity Officer to the Govt . of Manipur. 


Imphal :-Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Press . C. 210 /19-7-55 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


we 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 21 


Imphal, Wednesday , July 20 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


Mil 


Part 1. - Appointments , Postings , Transfers , Powers , 

Leave and other personal noticos, 
Part 11.-Resolutions , Regulations, Orders , Notifi 

cations, Rules etc. 


Part III.- Orders, Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of ladia , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Noticos etc. 


Nil 
2 to 10 


1 to 2 


PART I 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

NOTIFICATION . 

Imphal, the 13th July , 1963. 
No. J/ 28 /54. - In continuation of this Secretariat notification No. ( J / 28 /54 dated 
27-4-55 , the following notification from the Govt. of India is published for general 
information : 

No. F.3 (6 ) / J / 11/66 
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS , 

Now Delhi, the 2186 June , 1965 . 

NOTIFICATION . 
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 2 of the Part C States (Laws) 
Act , 1950 (XXX of 1950 ), the Central Goveroment hereby makes 

hereby makes the following 
amendment to the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Homo 
Affairs , No. F. 12( 2 )-J / II / 55 dated the 26th April, 1955 , namely : 

In clause ( a ) of the said notification , after the words " throughout the said Code " , 
the words and figures except in sections 108 , 401 and 402 eball be inserted . 


A. K. Ray, 
Chief Seoretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


Impbal, the 16th July , 1955 . 
No. PRESS / PUB /55 . The following Notification No. 695 Pr./31/54 , dated the 
17th Jure 1965 issued by the Govt. of West Bengal, Home ( Press) Department 
is republished for general information . 

Gopendra Sarma , 

Publicity Officer , Govt. of Manipur . 
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL HOME DEPARTMENT. 

PRESS 

NOTIFICATION . 
No. 695 Pr./81/54-17th June 1965 .-- Whereas the Bengali booklet entitled “ RAT 
BHOR " , purported to be written by “ Demukhat ” , published by Shri Debasis Mukherjee 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 20 , 1985 . 


from 89 , Mahendra Głos wànai Lane, Calcutta -6, muid printed by Shri Khagendra 
Neth Nandi on 

behalf of the Sen Printing Works, at 166 , Balaram De Street , 
Calcutta-6, contains objectionable matter within the meaning of clause (vi) of section 3 
of the Press (Objectoinable Matter ) Act , 1951 

Act, 1951 (LVI of 1951), in that it contains 
three stories , which aro grossly indecent and obscene ; 

And whereas the Advocate-General, West Bengal , h18 granted a certificate under 
section 11 of the said Act that the said booklet contains objectionable matter within 
the meaning of section 3 of the said Act ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the power conferred by section 11 of the said 
Act , the Governor is pleased hereby to declare every copy of the said booklet to 
be forfeited to the Government on the ground specified in the first paragraph of 
this notihoation . 

By Order of the Governor , 

c . K. Ray, 
Jt. Secy . to the Govt. of West Bengal 


NOTIFICATION No. TM / 4 / 56 / 17 . 

Dated , Shillong , the 4th July , 1955 . 
Subjeot :-Extension of date for sen ding Adtice for Inter-Government Adjustments 

to the Central Accounts Section of the Reserve Bank of India . 
It is notified for information of all Treasury Officers and Sub - Treasury Officers 
and Departmental Disbursing Officers that all cash and bouk transactions involving 
inter -Governmental adjustments that originate towards the close of the year should 
be advised by the A. G. to the Central Accounts Section of the Reserve Bank 
of India by the 15th April as required under Article 88 of the Account Code 
Vol. IV . But it has been observed that this due date could not be adhered to 
during last several years due to non -receipt of the returns from the Treasury and 
Departmental Disbursing Officers by the A. G. timely . 

All Treasury Officers and Departmental Disbursing Officers are , therefore , 
quested to tako special steps to submit all returbs of inter -Governmental transac 
tion in advance so as to enable the A. G. to settle the transaction with the Rosarve 
Bank of India by the due date . 

( C. A. G. s No. 567- AC / 95-55 , dated 17-5-55 
Dy. CAG - 764 in TM.4 /55 ) 
TM.276 

S. 8. Lal , 
Deputy Accountant General, Assam . 


re 


PART IV 
Notice No. IS /84164 . 

Imphal, the 18th July , 1956 . 
Applications stating name, full address , age , qualifications and previous experience 
are invited for the following posts : 

1 Chowkidar in the scale of pay , Rs. 22-1-28 /- with usual D. A. 
1 Peon 

do 

do 
Applications will be received by the undersigned upto noon of 30-7-88 . The 
candidates are to appear at the Office of the Inspector of Schools , Manipur on 
30-7-88 at 1 P. M. for interview , 

L : M. Biniga ; 
Offg . Inspector of Bohools , Manipur . 


mm 


T 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 20 , 1965 . 


3 


ADVERTISEMENT. 

Impful Thoʻigti sulj , jos. 
Applications ia candidatus own handwriting are invited for the 4 temporary 
posts of Lower Division Clerks in the Deputy Commissioner s Office on the Boale 
of Rs. 40-2-50 (EB) -3-80 (EB )-4-100 with usual dearness allowances as admissible 
under rules . None need applý who is not a matriculate of a recogaisod university . 
Applications stating (i) Full name, ( ii ) present and permanent address, (iii ) Nations 
lity , ( iv ) personal age on the 15th July , 1955 ( v ) Academic qualifications , ( vi ) past 
experience if any and (vii) Number of living wife will be received by the under 
signed up to 25th July , 1955. Candidates who are already in Government Service 
must apply through proper channel. Preference will be given to retrenched persons 
or knowing one or more of the local languages . 


Imphal, the 18th July , 1957 . 
Applications are invited for two temporary posts of Amins in the S.D.C s Offices 
under Deputy Commissioner s Establishment , on the Scale of Rs. 35-3-44 (EB ) -9-50 
with usual dearness allowance as admissible under Rules , 80 as to reach the office 
of the Deputy Commissioner, Manipur on or before the 25th July , 1955. Present 
and permanent address , Nationality, age, number of living wives , qualification in 
survey and other qualifications and experience of the candidates should be mentioned 
in their applications which should be accompanied with copies of testimonials if 
any . Candidates who are holding Government Service must apply through proper 
obannel. None need apply who does not possess practical experience of survey works. 
Preference will be given to the candidates holding Recorder s Cortificate from the 
Assam Survey School, Jhalukbari and knowing one or more local languages. 


Imphal, the 18th July , 1965 . 
Applications in candidates oan hand writing are invited for the post of one 
temporary Chaprassi in the oflice of the District Magistrate , Manipur, on the scale 
of Rs. 82- } - 28 with usual dearness allowances as admissible under rules . None need 
apply who is not w literate person . Preference will be given to a retrenched person 
or knowing one or more local languages. The closing date of receiving applications 
is 28-7.55 . 

R. C. Deb Chowdhury , 
Additional Deputy Commissioner, Manipur. 


Imphal, the 12th July , 1956 . 
Applications státing age, bome address, qualifications etc. and addressed to the 
Principal, are invited for the post of u le : turer in Botany for the Govt. D. M. 
College, Imphal in the scale of 175-175-200-15-350-20-450 /- p . m . plus D. A. @ 17 % 
The post is at present temporary with prospect of being made permanent. 

Age - Below 30 years. 
Qualifications : Essential : - At least 

Essential : - At least & 2nd class M. Sc . in Botany with 

special or thesis paper in Plant Physiology or 

Cytogenetics. 
Desirable : 

At least 3 years teaching experience. Last date 
of receipt of applications - 80-7-55 . 


N. B. Sinha , 
Offg . Principal, D. M. College, Imphal. 


MANIPUP. GAZETTE , JULY 20 , 1985 . 


A.R.M. COMPENSATION PAYMENT PROGRAMME 
for villages of Impbal East and Sadar Sub-Division . 

IMPHAL EAST TAHSIL . 


Name of village 


No. of cases , 


Amount. 


Date of payment . 


1. Nongada 

Chana 
3. Nongrem 


::: 


137 
89 


... 


21,966 / 

7,583 / 
8,060/ 


: 
: 
: 


18-7-55 
19-7-55 
20-7-55. 


189 


. 


SADAR SUB - DIVISION . 


22 

5 
12 
IL 
29 


: 
: 
: 
: 


;::: 


8 


1 . Doogsum 
2 . Purum Litanpokpi 
3 , Hojnoupokpi 
4 . Purum Khullen 
6 . Sadu Koireng 
6 . Waichei 
ñ . Sadang 
8. Chingtai Khuman 
9. Maohling 
10. Songbem 
11 . Khamenlok 
12. Lokpacking 


5,747 / 
2,944 / 
2,811 / 

599 / 
2,444 / 

216 / 
4,856 / 
3,920 / 

806 / 
800 / 
699 , 
5188 / 


::: 


22-7-55 . 
do 
do 
bo 
do 

do 
25-7-55 

do 
do 
do 
do 
26-7-55 


19 


24 
13 

3 
15 
84 


. 


MAO MARAM AREA . 


1 , Song Song 


241 


18,3171 


29-7-35 Mao I. B. 
30-7-55 


2. Kalinamei 


239 


17,7487 


do 


8. Radunamei 


183 


9,356 / 


31-7-5 
1.8-65 
2-8-552 
3-8-55 
4-8.55 


do 


do 


4 . 


118 


Chawaina 
Pinanamei 


do 


3,515 / 
21,642 / 


5 . 


: 
: 


406 


5-8-55 
7-8-55 


do 
do 


6. Pudupamei 


819 


17,227 / 


8-8-55 
9-8-55 


do 
do 


Tadubi 
do 


:: 


12-8-65 
13-8-55 
15-8-55 


:: 


do 


1C - 8-55 leave Mao for Imphal. 

12-8-55 leave Imphal for Tadubi. 
7. Radubi 

138 

11,967 / 
8 . Makhel Sajouba 177 

14,155 / 
9. Liyai 

154 

5,418 / 
10 . Chawainamoi Khu 

51 

2,259 / 
11. Makhel Koibi 

37 

4,780 / 
12 . Makbel 

44 

1,981 / 
18 . Obakumei 

89 

2,117 / 
14. Pboibung Khulen & 

4,200 / 
Khunou 62 

1,764 / 


Dou 


1 6-8-55 
17-8-55 


do 
do 


} 


19-8-55 


do 


ma 


20-8-56 


do 


W. Goura Singh 
Snb- Deputy Colleotor ( Olaims), Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 20 , 1985 . 


6 


NOTICE No. 12 /TE of 1955 . 

Imphal, the 12th July , 1955 . 
Applications of own hand writing stating age, home address, educational quali 
fications supported by certificates and previous experiences in teaching line ( if any ) 
are invited except from non -matriculates and will be received submitted by the 
applicants personally to the undersigned on or before 31-7-55 during office hours 
for two teacherships for Toupokpi Govt. U. P. School (Ⓡ), Rs. 55-2.75 EB -3-90 p . m . 
plus 1). A. per head . 

The applicants should be interviewed ( it considered necessary) on the day the 
put up their applications and there will be no separate date for interview . They 
are also to state whether they have more than one wife living . 


N. Modoli , 
Deputy Inspector of Schools , 

( Tribal) Manipur . 


88 


to & 


Inpbal, the 19th July , 1955. 
Applications are invited for 2 temporary Draftsman in the scale of Rs. 100 
105-110 ( Con ) -5-160 (EB )-5-180 for unqualified candidates and Rs. 120-120-130 (Con )-5 
145- (EB ) -10-245- ( EB )-10-275 for qualified candidates plus dearness allowance 
admissible by rule under the Public Works Department, Manipur, so as to reach the 
office of the undersigned on or before 8th Angust, 1955. Present and permanent address, 
nationality , age and details of acade :nic and technical qualifications and past 
experience of the candidates should be mentioned in their applications which should 
be accompanied by copies of two testimonials by responsible person . None need 
apply wlio is not of good health and active babits . Preference will be 

be given 
passed Overseer (Upper Subordinate or L. C. E.) from a Governmont recognised 
institute and a citizen of the Indian Union . Copies of diploma, certificate etc. should 
be enclosed witų the applications. Other things being equal, preference will be given 
to persons knowing one or more of the local languages. 

Y. Tombi Singh , 
Executive Engineer , Irrigation Division , 

Imphal. 
Notice No. 6 / 55-56 

Imphal, the 16th July , 1955 . 
Sealed tenders are invited for supply of the following uniform for Grade IV employees 
of the Agricultural Dopartment and will be received by the undersigned upto 1 p . mn . of 
3rd August , 1955 . Tenderers should quote the rate in words and figures . The 
successful tenderer shall have to deposit a sum of Rs . 100 / - , refundable on completion 
of the supply . The uniforms as finished shall be delivered at the tenderer s cost 
at the Agricultural Office within a month from the date of acceptance of the tender. 
Samples of the cloth should be furnished with the tender. 

It is not obligatory to accept the lowest or any tender. 
( 1 ) Warm coat 

7 (Seven ). 
( 2 ) Khaki coat 

do 
( 3 ) Long pants (khaki) 32 (thirtytwo) . 
(4 ) White long cloth for 
belt & pagris . 

19 Yards . 
(8 ) Havour sack 

1 (one) . 

G. H. Singh , 
Director of Agriculture , Manipur . 


7 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 20 , 1988 . 


NOTICE . 


Imphal. the 14th July , 1955 . 
It is hereby notified for information of the public that the existing two Tea 
Stalls within the D. C. s Office Compound will be sold in public auction on 

the 
22nd July , 1953 at 1 P. M. temporarily for a period of 3 months. The stalls should 
be used solely as Tea - Stalls. The successful bidder shall have to deposit the entire 
bid money on the spot. 

The undersigned is not bound to accept the highest or any bid and is not bound 
to assign reasons for non -acceptance. 

R. C. Deb Chowdhury , 
Additional Deputy Commissioner , Manipur. 


Notice No. 2 . 


Imphal, the 19th July , 1955 . 
Applications written in candidates , own handwriting stating nye, educational 
qualifications , previous experience, if any, full addresses etc. are invited for the post 
of Temporary Assistant Auditors , C. $ . in the scale of Rs. 100-5-150-10-200 ) - 80 
as to reach the Office of the undersigned on or before 2-8-55 during Office hours . 
The posts are temporary and tenable upto the end of February , 1956 but likely 
to be extended . None need apply who is not graduate of a recognised University , 
The intending candidates are required to appear before the nodersigned on or before 
the 5th August at 11-30 A. M. for interview . 

P. C. S. Bordiloi, 

Assistant Rogistrar , 
Co -operative Societies , Manipur. 


Imphal, the 19th July , 1955 . 
No, V. PRESS / PUB /55. — The following Press Note received from the Government 
of India , Ministry of Defenc3 is republished for general information . 

PRESS NOTE . 
An examination for admission to the Prince of Wales s Military College DEHRA 
DUN , will be held on September 19 , 1955 ut different centres . It will consist 
of both written and viva voce tests . 

Applications in duplicate on prescribed forms should reach the State Government 
or Chief Commissioners in whose jurisdiction the applicaut s 

applicaut s parents or guardians 
ordinarily reside by not later than August 16 , 19.15 . Candidates seeking admission on 
to the College should not be less than 11 years of age but must not have attained 
the age of 12 years on 20th January 1956. Age limits will not be relaxed . 

Full particulars regarding the course of training , specimen question papers etc., 
aud application formy 010 be obtained from the Chief Secretary to the State 
Governments or Chief Commissioners concerned or the l rincipal, Prince of Wales 
Military College , DEHRA DUN . Requests made to Army Headquarters in this 
bebalf will not be entertained . 


Ministry of Defence , 
New Delhi, June, 30 , 1935 . 
800 / 30-6-55 /4126 . 


By order etc. 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 20, 1956 . 


7 


Imphal the 18th July , 1938 . 
No. RH / 77 /51- A / 11 - The following Press Note dated the 28th June . 19:35 
received from the Press . Information Bureau , Government of India on the subject of 
- Invitation of compensation applications" is republished for general informztion : 

T. Kalachand Singh , 
Asstt . Secy . to the Govt. of Manipur, 


are 


re 


PRESS NOTE . 
INVITATION OF COMPENSATION APPLICATIONS 

Last date for filing September 26 , 1955 . 
The Central Government have published a notification in the Gazette of India 
dated June 27 , 1955 under Section 4 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and 
Rehabilitatiou ) Act, 1954 inviting applications for compensation from all those dis 
placed persons with verified claims for immovable property left in West Pakistan , 
who have not applied before under any of the priority categories or otherwise . 

Applications for compensation should be preferred ia duplicate on the prescribed 
forn and handed over or sent to the Settlement Ollicer within whose juridiction 
the applicant resides , or carries on business or works for gain . The prescribed forms 

on sale at all Settlement OfBces under the Central Ministry of Rehabilitation , 
and at Post Offices . In addition to the various documents which form part of the 
applications, overy claimant should put in an aflidavit in the form specificd under 
the rules and attested by a Magistrate or an Oaths Commissioner or by any other 
officer competent to administer an oath , and sh uld also send three passport size 
photograpbs and a certified copy of tho claim assessment order . Applicants are 
quired to give full details of loans , etc. owing from them as also arrears of rent . 
Under the rules , severe penalties aro prescribed for falso information given in regard 
to these public dues. 

Those claimants who have already sent in their applications for compensation in 
the priority categories or in connection with the purchase of property , or the gran 
tiny of loans, or otherwise , need not apply again . 

In those cases where the original claimint bas died and successors in interest 
now wish to put in applications for compensation , they should , in addition to the 
documents comprising the application form , als , submit particulars of the date and 
place of death of the deceased clumant with a duly certified death certificate and 
give particulars of heil s and relatives of the deceased and a trua copy of the will 
or other document on which they rely . Such successors in interest will also have 
to swear an affidavit in support of their stateinents. 

R. F. A. lounees should obtain a certificate from the Rehabilitation Finance Admi 
nistration regarding the total amount duo from them as principal and interest as 
on June 30 , 1955 , and send this certificate along with their compeosation applications. 

Applicants should fill in all the particulars required in the forms carefully so 
as to avoid delay which will be caused iſ inaccurate or incomplete information is given . 
The last date for the filing of compensation applications is September 26 , 1955. 

A list of Settlement Officers all over India with their rerpective jurisdictions is 
given below for the guidance of applicants . 

Displacrd persons with verified claims residing outside India , who have not already 
applied , should apply to the Regional Settlement Commissiuner , Khan Murket , New 
Delhi, either directly or through a duly appointed agent or through the uccredited 
Missions abroad . 

For full details of the procedure to be followed , applicants may refer to the rules 
under the Displaced persons (Componsation and Rehabilitation ) Act , which have been 
published in the Gazette of India . 
Ministry of Rehabilitation 
New Delbi, June 26 , 1953 . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 20, 1955. 


not 


APPENDIX 
Jarisdiction of Settloment Officers , Delhi. 
Settlement Officer, 34 , Khan Murket, New Delbi : 

The whole of the area com 
prised in the limits of the New Delhi Municipal Committee , the proposed South 
Area Municipal Committee , New Dollsi, including the oulonies of Aliganj, Jungpura , 
Kalkaji, Lajpatnagur, Milvyanagar , Nizimuddin Extension , Delhi Cantonment and 
Mehrauli . 

S.O., Qr. No. 26-27 , Block 47/ E , East Pat Nagar, Delhi : Karol Bagh ( including 
Western Extension area ). Nurai Rohila , Najafgarh including the colonies of Moti 
nagar , Patelnagar , Rajindernagar, Ramesh Nigar, Regarpura , Tebar and Tilaknagar. 

8.O., 34 , Gokhle Market, Delhi : Rest of the area included in the city and State 
of Delhi including the colonies of Azadpur , Bharatnagar, Gandhinagar, Harijan 
Colony , Kingsway Camp , Malkayanj, Motia Khan , Nicholson Ruad and Vijay Nagar. 

( Note ) : - Applicants residing in an area mentioned in tho jurisdictiou of 
any of the three Settlement Officers above should file their appliations in the Gokhalo 
Market Settlement Office . 

JULLUNDUR . 
Settlement Officer , Parry s Hotel, Ambala Cantt : Districts of Ambala and Simla 
of l unjab and whole of Hiwachal Pradesh . 

S.O , 10.5 - L , New Colony, Rohtak : Districts of Rohtak and Gurgaon of Punjab . 
S.O., Kurnal : Districts of Karnal & ad Hissar of Punjrb . 

$ .0 ., 44, R. B. Duvi Chand Road , Amritsar : Districts of Amritsar , Kangra and 
Gurdaspur of Punjab and whole of Jammu & Kashmir State . 

S. O., 507.L.R , Model Town , Julluudur Oity : Districts of Jullunjur and Hoshiar 
pur of Punjab . 

$ . O., 421, Model Town , Ludhiana : Distriots of Ludhiana and Ferozepur of 
Punjab . 

8. O., “ The Roses” , Sheranwala Gate , Patiala : Whole of PEPSU including new 
townships at Rajpura and Tripuri. 

Bombay 
Settlement Officer, 3rd Floor , contractor Building, Nicol Road , Ballard Estate , 
Bombay : Bombay Proper and Thana District of Bombay State , and Madras, Mysore , 
Hyderabad , Travancore Chochin ; Coorg and Andhra States , 

8. O., Ulhasnagar , Salvi Bungalow , Ulhasnagar Townships, Kalyan Camp No. 3 : 
Kalyan , The Dangs, Nasik , Ahmednagar , East and West Khandesh and Colaba . 

S. O., 6 - Rajnagar Society , Paldi Road , Ahmedabad - 7 : Amroki; Banas , Kantha, 
Mehsana, Sabar Kantha , Ahmedabad , Panch Mahal, Baroda, Barock , Surat and Kaira . 

Asstt . 5. O., 21 , Welsely Road , Poona : Poona , Kanara , Satara , Kolhapur, South 
Satara , Sholapur , Bijapur, Belgaum , Dharwar and Ratnagiri . 

8. O., Mandvi Chowk , Junagadh : Saurashtra State. 
Asstt. 8. O., Gandhidham (Adipur) Kutoh : Kutch State . 

Ajmer . 
Settlement Officer, Srinagar Road , Ajmer : Ajmer State. 

Bhopal. 
Settlement Officer, Jnagadh House , Bhopal : Bhopal State , 


: 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 20 , 1958 . 


9 


Rajasthan 
Settlement Officer , Sriganganagar : Ganganagar and Bikaner District . 
8. O., Alwar : Alwar and Bharatpur Districts . 
S. O., Jaipur : Rest of Rajasthan , 

Uttar Pradesh . 
Settlement Officer - cum - District Relief and Rehabilitation Officer, Lucknow : Lucknow , 
Sitapur, Kheri, Rai- Bareilly, Hardoi, Barabanki, Gonda and Bahraich Districts . 

S. O., Allahabad : Allahabad , Fatehpur , l rataphgarh , Sultanpur , Faizabad , Jaunpur, 
Banda and Mirzapur Districts. 

8. O., Saharanpur : Salaranpur District . 
8. O., Meerut : Meerut, Muzzaffarnagar, Bulanısbahr Districts. 
8. O., Dehradun : Dehradun , Tehri Gurhwal Districts. 
S.O., Bareilly : Bareilly , Sahjahanpur , Pilibhit , Buduan , Nainital and 

Almora 
Districts . 

S. O., Kanpur : Kanpur, Etawah , Farrukhabıd , Hamirpur and Unnao Districts. 
8. O., Agra : Agra , Mainpuri, Jhunsi and Jaulaun Districts . 
8. O., Moradabad : Moradabad , Rampur , Bijnor and Garhwal Districts. 
A. S. O., Mathura : Mathura , Aligarh and Etah Districts. 

A. S. O., Benaras : Benaras , Ballia , Ghazzipur, Azzamgarh , Gorakhpur , Basti and 
Deoria Districts . 

Madhya Pradesh . 
Settlement Officar, Nagpur : Nagpur, Wardba , Chanda , Raipur, Durg , Bastar , 
Amravati, Yeotmal, Buldana , Bhandara and Akola Districts. 

8. O., Jabalpur : Jabalpur, Chhindwara , Betul, Nimar, Hoshanga Bad , Surguja , 
Raigarh , Bilaspur, Sagar, Mundla and Balaghat Districts. 
A. S. O., Rewa : Vindhya Pradesh State . 

Madhya Bharat . 
Settlement Officer -cum -Rehabilitation Officer, Gwalior : Morena , Shivpuri , Gird , 
Guna , Bhil -a , Rajgarh and Bhind Districts . 

S.O. , Indore : Shahjahanpur, Dewas, Ujjain , Indore , Katlam , Jhabua , Dbar, and 
Nemar Districts . 

Calcutta . 
Settlement Officer, 103 , Park Street , Calcutta - 16 : States of West Bengal, Bihar, 
Assam , Orissa , Manipur and Tripura . 


Impbal , the 20th July , 1955 . 
Sealed tenders are invited for the supply of the following building materials to 
the Manipur Rifles by the 31st July , 1956 . 

The tenders, which may be submitted for any one of the items or for all , wilt 
be received by the Commandant, Manipur Rifles upto 25th July , 1955 during Office 
Hours . 
Serial No. Details of the Material.3. 

Approximate requirements . 
1 . 

Brick , Ist Class (Burnt) 

2020 
2 . Brick Ballast 

336 cft . 
3 . Surki 

144 oft . 
Lime 

48 oft . 
5 . River Sand 

69 oft . 


U. C. Malhoutra , I.P.S. 
Inspootor General of Police , Manipur . 


10 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JULY 20 , 1986 . 


Notification No. 9 of 1956. 

Imphal, the 20th July , 1955 . 
Applications stating age , educational qualifications and previous experience if any . 
are invited for the post of oce Typist for the period upto the end of February 
1956 , which is likely to be extended in the pay scale of 40-2-50 -EB - 3-80-EB -4-100 
with usual D. 4. as admissible under rules for the Court of Judicial Commissioner , 
Manipur and will be received by the undersigned upt.) 3 P. M. of 28th July , 1955 . 
The applications are to be addre.sed to the Judicial Commissioner for Manipur. 
None need apply who is not a Matriculate . 

Candidatos are to appear in the office personally for interviow 29-7-55 at 
10 A. M. and thoy are to produch their testimonials in original. They are also to 
stato whether they have more than one wife living . 


on 


K. B. Singh, 

Registrar , 
Judicial Commissioner s Court , Manipuf. 


CORRIG END U M. 


Inphal, the 15th July , 1955 . 
At page 3 Manipur Gazette July 6,1955 , Legal Practitiouers fees . 

( 1) Insert a before the word first in the 7th line of Rule No. 1. 
( 2 ) In the 2nd line of Rule No. 5 for write read writ 


K. B. Singh , 

Registrar, 
Judicial Commissioner s Court , Manipur . 


Imphal :-Printed and published by the Superintendent , Govorn ment Press. C. 205 / 20-7-55 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 23 


Imphal, Wednesday, August 3 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Pago 


1 


Part I.- Appointments , Postings , Transfers , Powers , 

Leave and other porsonal notious, 
Part 11.-- Resolutions, Regulations , Orders , Xotif 

cations, Rules etc. 


Part Ill . - Orders , Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Noticos etc. 


NjI 
4 to 12 


1 to 4 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Iruphal, the 27th July , 1955 . 
No. B - TP /5 /51/200-1 . --The Chief Commissioner is pleased to appoint Shri Purnalal 
Das , Finance Officer, Claims, attached to the Manipur Secretariat as the Manager , 
Manipur Siate Transport in addition to his own duties , until further orders . 

Shri Kh. Budha Singh at present Manager , Manipur State Transport is appointed 
to the post of Special Officer , Manipur State Transport created under this Adminis 
tratiou order No. B - TP / 5 /51/ 198-9 dated the 27th July , 1955 till further orders . 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


Imphal, tbe 29th July , 1955 . 
No. B - TP /5,51.- The Chief Commissioner is ploased to appoint Shri S. C. Palit , 
I.P.S. ( Retd .) as Officer en Special Duty, Manipur State Transport for a period of 
3 (three ) months in the first instauce or till the ser.ices of a suitable serving officer is 
found whichever is earlier. In supercession of previous orders in the matter the Officer 
on Special Duty , M. S. T. is hereby declared as head of the Department for the Manipur 
State Transport Department , 

2. The orilers issued under this Secretariat Order No. B - TP /:;/51 / 198-9 dated 27th 
July , 1955 and No. B - TP / 5 /51 / 200- ! datud 27th July , 1955 aro bereby cancelled . 

A. K. RAY , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


PART V 

Imphal, the 27th July , 1955 . 
No. B - TP /5 /51/198-9 .--- The Chief Commissioner is pleased to create the post of 
Special Officer, Manipur State Travsport in the same scale of pay as that of the 
Manager , Manipur State Transport for a period of three months from the 27th of 
July , 1955. The expenditure will be met out of the sanctioned budget cstimate 
of the Manipur State Transport. 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt . of Manipar . 


1 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 3 , 1955 . 


A 


.. 


Imphal, the 27th July , 1955 . 
IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL COMMISSIONER FOR MANIPUR . 

In the matter of Insolvency Case No. 1 of 1955 . 
Muiraogthem Ahongjao Singh , son of late Chouba Singh of Bamdiar Basti , 
Police Station Imphal. 


...... Petitioner. 


Versus. 
R. K. Bhaskar Singh , son of lato R. K. Dumro Singh of Wangkhei Leikai, 
Police Station Imphal. 

...Opposite party . 
Subject : - Petition for adjudication as insolvent under section 10 of the 
Provincial Insolvency Act . 

Copy of th order passed by the Judicial Commissioner on 21-7-1955 
in the above noted Case . 


ORDER . 


Evidence of the petitioner is recorded . Heard . The petitioner is adjudicated 
insolvent as his application has not been opposed and as the statement on oath 
is unrebutted . Shri Koijam Rohini Kumir Singh , Pleader is appointed Receiver 
and he will proceed to deal with the insolvent s property accordiog to lxw . He 
will get his remuneration at 5 % of the realisations. The insolvent is given 6 months 
time to apply for discbargo. 


• Imphal, the 27th July , 1958 . 
IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL COMMISSIONER FOR MANIPUR . 

Insolvency Case No. 2 of 1965 . 
Luisangbam Ramando Singh , son of Chaoton Singh of Bamdiar Basti, Police 
Station Imphal. 

Petitioner . 

Versus. 
Shri R. K. Bhaskar Singh of Wangkhei Leikai, Police Station Imphal. 

... ...Opposite Party . 
Subject : 

-Petition for adjudication as insolvent . 
Copy of the order passed by the Judicial Commissioner on 14-7.1955 
in the above noted Case . 

ORDER . 


The case is called on several times . The opposito party is absent . The evidence 
of the petitioner is recorded . Heard . The present petition for adjucating insolvent 
is allowed . His properties shall vest in the Receiver who will proceed to deal with 
them according to law . Sbri Koijam Rohini Kumar Singh , Pleador is appointed 
Roopiver and he will get 5 % of the realisations towards his foer . 

The insolvent is allowed 6 months time to apply for discharge. The insolvent 
will be released and he will help the Receiver, in appropriating bis properties 
acoording to law . 

Brij Narain , 
Judicial Commissioner , Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 3 , 1965 . 


3 


Imphal, the 2ith July , 1955 . 
No. H.Cin.4 /55 — Tho followiog orders received from the Government of India , 
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting are republished for general information . 

K. G. Singh , 
Asst . Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 

ORDER . 

( 1) No. 1 / 16,55- F : APP / 32 dt . 2-8-55 . 
S.R.O. 

In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions 
of each of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the order of tbe 
Government of India in the Ministry of Inforication and Broadcasting No. $ .1.0.945 
dated the 28th April , 1965 , the Central Government with the previous approval of the 
Film Advisory Bcard , Bombay hereby certifies the film specified in column 2 of the 
Schedule hereto annexed , in all its language versions, to be of the description 
specified agaiust it in the curresponding entry of column 6 of the said Schedule . 

Schedule . 


S. No. 


Title of 
the film . 


Source of supply . 


Name of the 

Producer. 


Whether a scion 
tific film or & film 
intended for edu 
cational purposes 
or + film dealing 
with news and 
current events or a 
documentary film . 


2 


3 


5 


1 . 


Indian News 
Review No. 
346 . 


Govt. of India , 
Films Division , 
Bombay . 


Govt. of India , films 
Division , Bombay . 


Film dealing with 
Dewis and current 
events . 


5 


ORDER 

( 2 ) No. 1 / 16 /55 - F : APP /33 dt. 9-6-55 . 
S.R.O , In pursuance of clause of the directions issued under the provisions 
of each of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the order of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S.R.(). 
945 dated the 28th April , 1955 , the Central Government with the previous approval 
of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay hereby certifies the films specified in column 
2 of the Schedule hereto annexed , in all their language versions, to be of the 
description specified against each in thu corresponding entry of coluwn of the 
said schedule . 

Schedule . 
S. No. Title of 

Name of the Source of supply . Whether & scien 
the film . Producer. 

tific film or a film 
intended for edu 
cational purposes 

a film dealing 
with 
current events or & 
documentary film . 


In 


or 


pew8 


and 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


1 . 


Govt. of India films 
Division , Bombay . 


Iodian News 
Review No. 
347 . 
The Ripe . 
ning Seed . 


Govt . of India 
Films Division , 
Bombay. 
Sri Paul Zils for 
the Chovt. of 
India , Films Di 
vision , Bombay . 


Film dealing with 
news and current 
events . 

Film intended 
for educational 
purposes . 


2 . 


do 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 3, 1955 . 


ORDER 

( 3) No. 1 / 18 /55 - F : APP / 35 dt. 16-6-55. 
S.R.O. In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions of 
each of the enactments specified in the first Schedule to the order of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of loformation and Broadcasting No. S.R.O. 945 dated the 
28th April, 1955 , the Central Governinent with the previous approval of the Film 
Advisory Board , Bombay bereby certifies the films specified in column 2 of the 
Schedule hereto annexed , in all their language versions , to be of the description 
specified against each in the corresponding entry of column ģ of the said Schedule 


Schedule . 


Source of supply . 


8 


S. No. Title of 

the Film . 


Name of the 

Producer 


Whether scientific 
film or a film intended 
for educational purposes 

tilin dealing 
with news and current 
events or y docunien 


or 


8 


tary film . 


4r 


1 


2 


3 


4 


ñ 


1 . 


Indian News 
Review No. 
348 . 
Ben ofits of 
Bhakra Nangal. 


Govt . of India 
Film Division , 
Bombay. 

do 


Govt . of India 
Films Division , 
Bombay . 

do 


Film dealing with 
news and current 
events . 
Dicumentary filın . 


2 


PART IV 


NOTIFICATION No. 10 of 1955 . 

Imphal, the 27th July , 1955. 
It is beruby notised that the present typist of this Court bas withdrawn his 
application for resignation and that NO LIFICATION No. 9 of 1955 dated 20/7/55 
issued by this Court calling for laudidates for the post should be deemed to 
be cancelled . 

K. B. Singh , 

Registrar , 
Judicial Commissioner s Cjurt , Manipur . 


NOTICE . 


Imphal, the 2nd August , 1955 . 
No. 5 / JS /11 /55-56. —It is hereby notified for general information that pursuant 
to Section 20 of the Societies Registration Act XXI of 1860 , an Association under 
the name and style of the " Yaiskul Union Club " has been incorporated and unmbered 
as 5 of 1955 56 dated the 1st August , of the year one thousand uine hundred and fifty 
five Anno Domini. 


U. M. SINIA , 

Registrar, 
Joint Stock Companies , Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 3 , 1955. 


5 


NOTICE. 


Imphal the 15th July , 1955 . 
It is hereby notified for information of the public in veneral and the parties in the 
following cases in particular that the said cases have this day been transfered for 
disposal from the file of this curt to that of the learned Sub -Judge , Manipur . 
Henceforth the parties in the said 

should take steps , if there be any for 
hearing or otherwise of their respective cases. No personal notice will be given to 
the parties . Enquiries in this behalf may be mide in the vilices of this court 
the court of Sub - Judge . 


casos 


or 


Serial 
No. of 
cases . 


1 . 


2 . 


3 . 


4 . 


Caser . No. of parties . 

Date of Remarks 

henring . 
C. A. No. 63155. Soibam Leiren Singh of Singjamei Thongam 
Leikai. 
Vs. 

6-8- ) 5 . 
Naorem Ibocbaoba Singlı of Khwai Waheng 

bum Verkai. 
C. A. No. 64 /-5 . Pangeijam Thanıbal Singh alo late Thabal 
Singlı as representative of Naorem Basti. 
V8 . 

8-8-55 . 
Khaidem Mangi Şiryh s/ o late Jatra Singh of 

Khabam . 
C. A. No. 66/55. Ningthemacha ongbi Laisram Ninyol Mudhu 

Sija Devi wife of late. R. K. Sanjioba Singh 
of Thangmeiban Hijam Leikai. 
Vs. 

10-8-55 . 
1. Irengbım Babu Singh s/ o lato Subal Singh 
of Uripol Bachaspati Laikai . 
2. Rajkumar Nityai Sana s /o late Rajkumar 
Sanajaolvat Singh of Thangmeiban Hijam 

Leikari . 
C. A. No. 67/55 . Sree Bibi Sara Bibi of Yairipok Tulihan 
Basti. 
V s . 

12-8-55 . 
Abdmjan Mia of Vairipok Tulihan Busti. 
C. A. No. 08/55 . Takhenchanglam Amusana Sarma of Khun 
drakpaw langci Yangions, Basti. 
Vs, 

17-8-55 , 
1. Thongam ningalWrepunongbi ingang 
macha Devi of Khundrakpan l angei Yang 
doug Basti . 
2. Warepam Ibotombi Singh off khuudrak 
Join Pungei Yapgdong Busti. 
3. Lusruum Komon Singh of Khundrak pam 

Pangei Yanguonų Basti. 
C. A. No. 70/55 . Laisram Tonba Singh of Kangalok Basti. 

VA . 

19.8-55 . 
Laisram Dbananjoi Singh of Khangabok 

Basti. 
C. A. No. 71/35. Badrinath Teli, s/ o late Kalirajram Teli of 
Khurai Teli L ati. 
Ve . 

22-8-55 . 
Balgobindaram Teli, s / o late Akamvam Teli 

of Khurai Teli Pati . 
C. A No. 72/66 . Thiyam Ibotombi Singh of Naorem Chabrou 
Masti. 
Vs , 

21-8-55 . 
Rahimuddin Mia , s /o late Gulap Haji Mia 
of Oinam Saombung . 


5 . 


6 . 


7 . 


8 . 


6 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 3 , 1956 . 


8. No. of 
cases . 


Cases . 


Number of Parties . 


Date of Remarks , 


Hearing 


9 . 


10 . 


3 . 


11 . 


12 . 


13 . 


C. A. No. 73/66 Shamcharan Dey , s /o late Ganga Prasad Dey 
of Babupara , Jiribam . 
Vs. 

26-8-55 . 
Jamini Namaudrani wlo Inta Rasikchandra 

Nawbudra of Latingkhal Jiribam . 
C.A. No. 74/56 Nurdin Mia, s / lite Jolphoi Mia of Sangai 

30-8-55 
Yumpham . 

Va. 
] , Muftijuddin Mia , 
2 . Abduſhei Mia , S / O late Jolpboi Mia 

of Sangai Yumpham , 
Tombam Mia , minor by his guardian 

ad - litem Respdt . No. 1. 
4. Heyatun Bibi D / O Jolphoi Mia 
5 . Leimahul Bibi, DU Julphui Mia . 
6 . Abdul Zalil Miit $ 10 Late Meinya Mia 

of Sangai Yunnpham . 
do 75/65 Waheng bim Pancho Singh S / O late Ibuogo 
hal Singh of Porompat Kshetri Leikai. 31-8-35 

Vs. 
Ngasepam Ibotombi Singh of Khuari Soibam 

Leikai. 
do 76/55 

Okram Amuba Singh of Chingamakha 
Mayengbam Leikai. 

1-9.55 . 
Vs. 
A heihaun Pisu k Singh of Chiogamakba Mai 

snam . Leikai. 
do 77/55 Oinam Mani Singh of Haorang Saban . 2-9-35 . 

V8. 
Lisım Taropon Singh of Iroisemba Takyen 

Khongben Pungsangbam Leikai. 
do 79/55 

Takhellamban Goura Singh of Sagolband 
Tungbram Leikai . 

5-9-56 . 
Vs. 
Pukhrambam Chura Singh of Awang Khu 

nou Basti . 
do 80/55 Laisram Maipak Singh of Saombung Lamboi 
Kbongpangkhong . 

8-9-55 . 
Ve. 
Lamabaın Yaima Singh of Takyen Kbong . 

ban . 
do 81/55 Irungbam Mukho Singh of Awangkhurkhun . 7-9-55 . 

VL 
Irungbam Kula Singh of Awang Khurkun . 
do 82/65 Chongtham Kanhai Singh of Lamboi Khong 
nangkhong . 

8-9.58 . 
V8 . 
Gutumayum fboton Sarma of Wangkhei 

Tbangapat Mapan . 
do 83/56 Yumnam Kumari Singh of Nambol Baban 
Leikai. 

9-9-56 . 
Vs. 
1. Yumpam Naba Singh minor by Pu 

khramban Kuwari Singh . 
Yumnam Ibopisak Singh 

öt 
3 . Yumnam Angou Singh , 

Nambal Sabal Leikai. 


14 . 


15 . 


16 : 


17 . 


18 . 


MANIL’UR GAZETTE , AUGUST 3 , 1955 . 


T 


Cases . 


No. of partius . 


Serial 
No. of 
oses . 


Date of Remarks . 
hearing 


19 . 


20 . 


21 . 


22 , 


C. A.No. 84/55 Huidrow Jhotoinbi Singh S /O late Chaoba 
Singh of Mutum Phibou 

12-9-55 . 
Vs. 
1. Huidrom Angnhal Singh 
2 . do Ahanbi Singh 
3 . do Tombi Singh 

of 
4 . do Amu Singh 
5 . do Khoinei singh 

Mutum Phibou . 
do . 85/55 Ningthoujum Lula Singh of Brahmapur 
Chungkham Leikai 

13-9-55 . 
Vs. 
Bachaspati Mayum Ibochoub :: Sarma of 

Brahmapur Chungkham Leikai. 
do . 86/35 Sanglak pam Ibohal Sarma of Thangmei 
band Kabambam Leikai. 

14-9-55 . 
Vs. 
Akham Laljit Singh of Awang Leikinthabi. 
C. A. No. 87/55 1 . Mayanglambam Angangjao Singb . 

2. Mayanglam bum Augaton Singh of Kak 

cbing Khunou . 
3. Mayanglambam Sattra Singh of Kakching 

Khunou . 
4. Mayanglambam Madbumangol Singh of 

Kakching Khunou . 
õ . Thingam Á hong Singh of Kakching 

Kbunou . 
6 . 

Khumukobam Biuo Singh of Kakching 

khunou . 
7 . Thingam Mango Singh of Kakching 

Khunon . 
8 . Khumukcham Dhar Singh of Kakohing 

Khunou . 
9 , Khumukchan Kuber Singh of Kak 
ching Khunyu . 
Vs. 

15-9-55 
1 . Laimayum Lalitamadbob 

Sarina 

of 
Kbwai Brabmapur. 
Laimayum Shyamkishore Sarmy, minor 

by his N / F Respdt. No. ) . 
3. Laimayum Biswanath Sarma of Khwai 

Brahmapur. 
Huijabam Ibotombi Sarma of Khwai 

Brahmapur. 
5 . Aribam Saratchandra Sarma, minor 

by bis N / F Respdt. No. 1 . 
B. Guruvayum Manaranjan Sarmy minor 

by his N / F Respdt . No. 1. 
7. Laimayum Tomba Sarma , minor by 

his next friend Respdt . No. 1. 


2 . 


23 . 


16-9-55 


O. A. No: 88/86 Ningomlam Ibohal Singh s /o Gulap Singh 
of Oinam Tangleibada busti . 

Vs. 
Oinam Ibobi Singh , 8/0 Late Madhu Singh of 

Oinam Tangleibade. 
C. A. No. 89/86 Hamid Mia , s/ 0 late Khamba Mia of 

Ksberogao . 


24 


Vs. 


19.9 56 


Maipak Mia of Kshorogao . 


8 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 3 , 1968 . 


Cases . 


No. of Parties . 


8. No. of 
cases . 


Date of 
Hearing 


Remarks. 


26 


21-9-55 


C. A. No.90 /55 Heikrujim Khimanja , Singh sio Mutlu 

Singh 

of Sagolband Mapudbou Mantri 
Leikai. 

Vs : 
1. Nongthombam Madhu Singh . 
2. Nougthumbim Janata Singh of Wang . 

khoi Kongba kebetri Laikai. 
Yumlemburn Thambaljino singh of 
Yairibok Khvirum . 


3 . 


26 . 


C. A. No. 92/55 Yumnam Gularujat Singh of Pranam Khul. 

V8. 
Khuidem ; Vanibar Singh of Pranam village . 


29-9-55 


27 . 


C. A. No. 93/55 ) . Khwairakpan Yaima Singh . 

5 . Khuraijam Naran Singh . 
3. Khursijaw Nipamacha Singh . 
4 . Kburaijam Tampla Singh of Tendong 


yan Basti. 


V8 


26-9-55 


1 . 
2 . 


Sibam Yaimi Singh of Tendongyan . 
Biswanath Toli of Khurri Telipati. 


26 . 


28-9-55 


C. A. No. 94165 Elangbama Madhumangol Singh 

Singh Sło late 
Thambaljto Singh of Wabyai Hiyaulam Basti. 

Vs. 
Yumnam Madhumangol Singh . 
2 . Elangbum Medyom Singh of Wabgai 

Hiyanglam Basti. 


1 . 


29 . 


C. A. No. 95/55 Atbokpam Ningol Kongam ongbi Leirik 
Devi of Khongman Moirang phoudid Leikai. 

Vs. 
Konsam Mukta Singh of Chingkham 
Lamphei. 


29-9-55 


30 . 


5-10-55 


31. 


C. A. No. 96/55 Rajkumar Sunasaimn Singh of Sagolband 
Bijoygobinda. 

Ve . 
Nepram Ningol Yumnum ongbi lbeyaima 

Devi of Sagolband Bijoy Govinda . 
C. A. No. 97/55 Nongthom bam Angou Singh s/o late Sengoi 
Singh of Hiyangthang. 

Vs. 
1 . Khwairak pam Krishna Singh of Lang 

pok Basti. 
2. Mnyengbam Ibobal Singh uf Elang ba m 

Leikai. 
3. Rajkumar Kulasana Singh of Thiyam 

Langpok . 


26-8-55 


32 . 


C. A , No. 99/55 l . Thongam Ningthou Singh 

Singh Blo late 
Kino Singl of Taothung basti. 
2 . Irom Babuchauba lo late Pari Singh 

of Wahgui Basti. 
3. Thongam Thonglen Singh slo late Bino 
Singh of Lairenkubi Basti. 

V8 . 
Thongam Tomohou Singh s / o late Mora 

Singu of Wabagai Basti. 
3. Thongam . 


12-10-05 


1 . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 3, 1955. 


9 


Cases . 


No. of partiis . 


Serial 
No. of 
Cases . 


Dale of Remarks . 
hearing . 


33 . 


14-1 () - 5.3 


34 . 


17-11-5.3 


35 . 


C. A. No. 99/55 Guramayım Lukhoi 

Sirma of Nambol 
Makha Leikai. 

Vs. 
1 . Hidingmayum Ang.ingbabı Sarm of 

Niinbol Makihani Leikai. 
2. Gurumayıım l botomli Sarma of Lai 

renjim Basti. 
3 . Gurumayur Kulichandra Sarmı of 

Kongkham . 
do 100 / 5.5 
100/5 ) 1. Laitonjam T.mphujan Singh of Kontha 

A hallup Banti. 
2. Oinam Naldwip Singh of Kontia 
Khabam Basti. 

Vs. 
Nongthombam Ibotombi Singh of Achua 

bikei Basti. 
do 101/50 1. Liitonja in Tamphajio Singh of Kontha 

Ahallup Basti. 
2 . Oinın Nahadwip Sinirh of Kontha 
Khabar Basti 

Vs. 
Thokcliom Augahal Singh of Achanbikci 

Basti, 
102/55 1. Laitonjam Tam hajao Singh of Kontha 

Ahıllup Basti. 
2 . Oinam Nubad wip Singh of Kontha 
Khabarn . 

VA . 
Irungbam Gokul Singh of Awang Leikin 

thabi Basti. 
do 103/35 1. Laitonjam Tamphajan Singh of Kontha 

khabam . 
Oinam Nabudwip Singh of Kontha 
Ahallup . 

Ve , 
Nyangom Manao Singh of Awang ( hirik 
Nungpakthaba Basti. 


18-11-55 


36 . 


21-11-03 


37 . 


2 . 


22-11-55 


L. Ibungohal Singh , 
District & Session Judge, Manipar . 


NOTICE. 


Imphal, the 23rd July : 1955. 
No. 6 /35 / T. - Sealed tenders are invited for the supply of the following article 
for the use of the Addl. Munsif Court , Manipur . Tenders addressed to the District 
and Sessions Judge , Manipur will be received by the undersigned up to 11.30 a . m . 
of the 24th August , 1955 and they will be opened at 1 p . m . of the same day . 

There shall be po binding to accept the lowest tender or to assign any reason 
for acceptance of any tender. 
(0) One Almirah of Upingthuu b x 3 x1} 

M. Chowdhury , 

C. 0. C. 
District & Sossions Court , Manipur . 


10 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 3 , 1985 . 


NOTICE. 

Imphal, the 2nd August , 1955 . 
Applications addressed to the Officer on Special Duty /Manipur State Transport , 
Imphal stating age, educational qualification and past experience etc. are invited from 
Candidates for the temporary appointment for the following posts in Manipur State 
Transport to reach the undersigned on or before the 10th August / jó during office 
hours . None need apply who is not a Matriculate , excepting for the post of personal 
orderlies . Those who have got experience in any commercial undertaking will be 
preferred for i he posts of Station Masters and Upper Division Asstt. and other things 
being equal. Preference will be given to those kuowing one or more of the local 
languages . 
Sl. No. Name of l osts , 

No. of Posts . 

Pay . 
1 . Suation Masters 

2 (two ) 

100-6-150 . 
2 . Upper Division Asstt . 

1 ( one) 

100-5-150 . 
L / D Asstt . 

4 ( four ) 

40)-2-50- (EB )-3 

80 (EB )-4.100 
Personal Orderlies . 

2 (two ) 

22-9-28 . 
Dearness allowance as allowed under Rules will also be admissible . The posts are 
transferablo . Security Deposit of Rs. 1,000 /- in ( ash will be required by those who 
nie appointed for posts under Serials 1 and 2 . 

S. Palit , 
Officer on Special Duty , 
Manipur State Transport , Imphul. 


@RS. 


4 . 


Imphal, the 28th July , 19.5. ). 
TOUR PROGRAMME OF MOBILE DESPENSARY EASTERN HILL RANGE 

FOR THE MONTH OF AUGUST 1955 . 


10-8-55 


Imphal to Thovai 


Miles 3 .. 


11-8-55 . 


Halt 


12-8-55 . 


5 


13 8-55 . 


Tbovai to Hongjol 
Hengjol to Sinta 
Sinta to Chingkap Tangkhul 


5 


14-8-55 . 


JO 


j 


15-8-5u. 


Halt 


16-8-55 . 


6 


17-8-55 . 


6 


18.8-3 .). 


7 . 


8 


Chingkap Tangkhul to Tungkhul Hungdung 
Tangkhul Idungdung to Kholep 
Kbolep to Natjang 
Natjang to Snacbing Tangkhul 
Snaching Tangkhu ! to Vajang 
Vajang to Toll : 


198-5 :, . 


6 


20-8-55 . 


5 


21-8-55 . 


7 


22-8-56 . 


Halt 


23-8-5h . 


Tollen to Imphal 


33 


N. B. Roy , 
Offg . Chief Medical Officer, Manipar . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 3 , 1965 . 


11 


NOTICE 

Imphal, the 30th July , 1956 . 
Applications are invited io candidates own hand -writing stating (a ) Educational 
qualification ( b ) age on 31.7.55 (c ) permanent home address (d ) prosent address of resi 
dence (- ) experience and attainments ( f) mirried or single (g ) number of wives if married 
(h ) names of local languages or other languages known , for some temporary posts of 
Zilladars and Peons on the Scales of Rs. 40.2-50 ( EB )-3-80 (EB ) .4.100 / - and 22-1-281 
with usual dearness allowances respectively for the Offices of the S.D.Cs Imphai We84, 
Thoubal and Bishenpur Tashils. The posts are likely to be mudo permanent. The 
minimum educational qualification for the Zilladars is Matriculation , the Peons must be 
literate (knowing some English ). 

Applications accompanied preferably with Matriculation certificates in original 
for the posts of Zilladars ( which will be returned ) or certificates in original froin 
the Heads of the Institutions where the candidate last studied with true copies of 
testmonials should reach the undersigned on or bəfore the 15th August, 55 . Candidates 
who are already in Government service should apply through the proper channel . 

Other thing being equal preferency will be given to the persons knowing one or 
more of the local languages . 

V. S. SUNDARAM , 
Deputy Commissioner , Manipur. 


Imphal, the 1st August , 1956 . 
Sealed tenders superscribed as Oiling of Ballot Boxos are invited for the viling 
of about 1,000 ballot boxes and will be received by the und - rsigned upt . 3 P.M. on the 12th 
August, 1955 . 

Tenderers should inspect the Ballot Boxes before subnuission of tender to acquint 
themselves with those parts of the boxes where oil is to be applied . Oil will be supplied by 
the Government. 

Tenderers should state the rate in terms of pice that will be charyad per box . 
Successful tender I should deposit an earuest money of Rs. 101 / - ( Rupees ten ) which will 
be refunded on the completion of the work . The undersigned does not guar.utes to accept 
the lowest or 
or any tenders. 

Tenders will be opened ou 13th August, 1955 ut i 2 noon 
beforu the tenderers . 

V. S. SUNDARAM , 
Chief Electoral Officer , Manipur . 


Imphal, tlood August, 1955 . 
Applications are invited for two temp: rary posts of one Upper Division clerk 
and one Typist in the Manipur Rifles Office in the scale of 100-5-150/ - and 40-2 
50 - EB - 3-80 -KB - 4-100 /- respectively plus Dearness Allowance as admissible in the state . 

The appointments are temporary upto the end of February 1956 , but likely to 
continue for an indefinito period . The candidates applying for the post of typist 
must posseses a minimum typing speed of foriy - five words per minute . 

None need apply who has not passed the Matriculation Examination of a recog 
nized University . 

Applications stating ( 1) Age on 1.8-55 ( 2 ) Educational qualification with Division 
in which they passed ( 3 ) Previous experience with testimonials if any ( 1 ) Full Address 
and (5 ) Typing speed per minute in the case of candidates for the post of typist 
: should reach the Commandant, Manipur Rifles on or before the 10th August , 1935. 
Applicants having previous experience will be given preference. 

U. O. Malhoutra , I.P.8 . 
Inspeo cor General of Police, Manipur . 


12 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 3 , 1955 . 


NOTICE 


Imphal, the 26th July , 19)... 
Notice is hereby given for information to all the plot owuers in the Town Fund 
area and the holders of the privato quarters in Babupara th : t all defaulters should 
entire arear taxes and revenue and municipal tax ) 

revenue and municipal tax ) due against them 
as on 31-3-75 within 7-8-5 . filing wbich Distress Warrants une liable to be issued . 


pay the 


A. K. Ray , 
Chairman , Imphal Town Fund . 


Imphal, the 2nd August, 1955 . 
No. H. Applt . -The following avertisement revuived from the Government of 
India , Office of the (Regional) Assistant ( ommissioner for Scheduled Castes and scheduled 
Tribes, Assam , Manipur and Tripura is published for general information . 

K. G. Singh , 
Asstt. Socratary (Home ) to the Govt. of Manipur . 


ADVERTISEMENT. 
Shillong , the 29th July , 1955 . 

No. SC & ST- 2 ( 4 )/57/434-38 
Applications are invited for the following posts in the office of the undersigned 
in the scale of pay noted against each , plus usual allowance ailinissible under Go 
vernment of India Rules . 

( 1 ) One post of Superintendent on Rs. 250-155-400 . 
( 2) One post of Upper Division Clerk on lis . 80-5-120 E. } , ---200-10 ; 2-220 . 
( 3 ) ODA post of Lower Division Clerk on Rs. 65-3-85 E B. -4-125-5-130). 
( 4 ) One post of Steno -typist on Rs . 135-83-85 E.B. -4-125-5-130 plus Special pay of 

R { s . 20 /-p . m . 
The minimum educational qualification for No. (1 ) and (2 ) is a graduate of a 
recognised University with previous office experiunce and knowledge of arcyuntancy . 
And for (1 ) the post of the Superintencleut , one must have had at least j years 
office experience in responsible post preferably in central offices and sbould be able 
to manage independently running of the offic .. 

For (3 ) is a matriculate with knowledge of Typing and previous office experience . 

For ( 4 ) is a matriculate with it speed of 100 words p . m . in short.hand and 
35 words p . m . in typing with previous office experience . 

Subject to suitability , preference will be given to candidates belonging to Sche 
duled Castes / Tribes Community . 

Applications should reach this office on or before 13th August 1955. Candidates 
called for interview will do so at their own expense . 


J. Sashimeren Ajer , 
( Regional) Assistant Commissioner for Scheduled 

Castes & Scheduled Tribes , Shillong . 


Imphal :-Pripted and published by the Superintendent, Government Prous. C. 800 / 3-8-58 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


नयमव जालन 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 24 


Imphal, Wednesday , August 10 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


Part I. - Appointments , Postings , Transfers , Powers , 

Leave and other personal notions , 
Part 11. - Resolutions, Regulations , Ordera , Notifi 

cations, Rules etc. 


1 


Part III. - Orders , Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Noticos ato . 


3 to 7 
7 to 12 


1 to 3 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 


Imphal, the 4th August , 1955 . 
No. H.Apptt. 37/55/9 . -The Chief Commissioner is pleased to appoint Major 
V. S. Sundaram , Deputy Commissioner , Manipur , to hold charge of the post of 
Development Commissioner, Manipur, sanctioned under Government of India , Ministry 
of Home Affairs letter No. F.13/ 17 /55 - Extt (c ) dated 14-5-55 , in addition to his 
own duties for a period of 3 months from the date he takes over the additional 
charge or, till the appointment of a whole time officer to the post , whichever 
is earlier. 


A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


PART II 


Imphal, the 3rd August , 2.955 . 
No. V -Press Pub /55. - The following notification is published for general information . 


Gopendre Sarma, 
Publicity Officer, Manipur. 


NOTIFICATION . 


Delhi, the 27th July , 1955 . 
No. F.87 /55 -C.- WHEREAS the Chief Commissioner , Delhi is satisfied that the 
book entitled “ RAMA RETOLD ” in English by Aubrey Momen , published by Chatto 
and Windus Ltd., London , and Clarke , Irwin & Co. Ltd., Toronto, and printed by 
Butler and Tanner Ltd., Frome and London , in United Kingdom , contains matter 
which is deliberately and maliciously intended to outrage the religious feelings of 
the Hindus by insulting their religious beliefs and the publication of which is 
punishable under section 295 - A of the Indian Penal Code (Act XLV of 1860) ; 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 10 , 1956 . 


NOW , THEREFORE , on the above -stated grounds und in exercise of the powers 
oonferred by section 99 - A of the Code of Criminal Procedure ( Act V of 1898 ) , 
the Chief Commissioner, Delhi hereby declares to be forfieted to Government every 
copy of the 

of the said book and all other documents containing copies reprints and 
translations of or extracts from the said book . 

By order , 
Sid /- J. N. Goyal, 
Home Secretary to Government , 

Delhi State , Lelbi. 


Imphal, the 5th August, 1955 . 
No. A -PWI& W /21/55. —The following Risolutions No. 24(2)/54- Adm dated 
18-10-5 und No. 24 ( 2 )/54-Adm.I dated 9-5-55 received from the Government of 
Iodia , Ministry of Irrigation and Power, New Delhi are publisbed for general 
information . 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


No. 24 ( 2 )/54 - Adm . In view of the importance of expedition and 

expedition and economy in 
the execution of river valley projects , the Government of India have arranged to 
bold Engineers Seminars periodically to enable the heads of major projects to make 
suggestions for improving the methods of work and efficiency and exchange views 
on technical and administrative matters common to these projects and take, wherever 
necessary , co -ordinated action . To derive the maximum benefit from suggestions 
designed to ensure economy and expedition it is important that there should be 
no avuidable delay in taking follow up action . This can not be done unless deci 
sions are taken quickly at the highest level and the suggestions implemonted both 
by the Central and the State Governments . The Government of India have , thero 
fore , set up , in consultation with the State Governments concerned , " the Co -ordi 
nation Committee of Engineers” and “ the Co - ordination Board of Ministers” . The 
composition of the Committee and the Board is as follows : 


Co -ordination Committee or Engineers : 


Chairman . 
Member , 
Member . 


1. Chairman , Central Water and Power Commission . 
2. Deputy Secretary , Ministry of Irrigation and Power . 

3 . Chief of Natural Resources , Planning Commission . eto ., etc. 
Co - ordination Board of Ministers : 

1 . Union Minister for Irrigation and Power. 
2. Union Deputy Minister for Irrigation & Power , 
3. Minister for Irrigation and Power , Punjab etc., eto . 


Chairman . 


Member 
Member. 


ORDER 


Ordered that this Resolution be communicated to all State Governments, the several 
Ministries of the Govt. of India , Prime Minister s Secretariat, the Private and Military so 
cretaries to the President, Cabinet Secretariat, Parliament Secretariat, the Planning 
Cominjasion and the Comptroller and Auditor General of India . 

Ondered also that the Resolution be published in the Gazette of India and that the State 
Governments be roquested to publish it in the State Gazettes for goneral information . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 10 , 1985 . 


3 


No. 24( 2 )/54- Adm . I. The following amendments shall be made in the composi 
tion of the Co -ordination Committee of Engineers” , as Bot up in the Resolution 
of the Goveroment of India in the Ministry of Irrigation an ! Power , No. 24 ( 2 )/ 84 
Adm ., dated the 13th October , 1954, nan :ely : 

( i ) In serial No. 13 , for " Chief Engineer, 

Irrigation and Power , Hyderabad , substitute " 
Chief Engineer, Irrigation Projects , 

Hyderabad - Deccan ” . 
( ü ) After Serial No. 27 , insert the following : -- 

28 . Chief Engineer , Flood Control, Assam . 
29 . Chief Engineer ( Electricity ), Madras . 
30 . Chief Electrical Engineer, Mysore . 
31. Chief Engineer ( Electricity ) Travancore- Cochin . 
32. Chief Electrical Engineer, Uttar Pradesh . 
33. Chief Engineer (Electricity ) Bibar. 

ORDER 
Ordered that this Resolution be communicated to all State Governments , the 
several Ministries of the Government of India , Prime Ministers Secretariat, the Private 
and Military Secretaries to the President, Cabinet Secretariat, Parliament Secretariat , 
the Planning Commission and the Comptroller and Auditor General of India . 

Ordered also that the Resolution be published in the Gazette of India and that 
the State Governments be requested to publish it in the State Gazettes for gene 
ral information . 


PART 10 

Imphal, the 6th August, 1985 . 
No. C -HDE / 17 /55. - The following Regulation is republished for general infor 
mation . 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


or 


Government of India Scholarships to Scheduled Castos , 
Scheduled Tribes and Other Baokward Classes --1955-56 . 

REGULATIONS . 
1. Candidates for the award of Scholarships shall be inembers of the Scheduled 
Castos, Sobeduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes as recognised for the purpose , 
shall be citizens of India including Jammu & Kasbmir or Sikkim and shall have 
passed the Matriculation Examination of a University established by law in India 
any other equivalent examination of a recognised 

of & recognised University or Board of 
Secondary Education in India or in a foreign country . 

2. Each applicant for Soholarship should send a certificate signed by a Member 
of the Parliament/Member of State Legislature /Municipal Commissioner/Member of 
the District Board /Gazetted Officer stating that he/ she belongs to Scboduled Castes / 
Sobodulod Tribos /Other Backward Classes, and is a citizen of India . 

-8 . Tbe Sobeduled Oastes , Scheduled Tribos and Other Backward Classes Soho 
larships Board , hereinafter called " the Board ” may Subject to the approval of 
the Government of India award Scholarships to candidates eligible under Regulation 
No. 1 intending to pursue studies in recognised Institutions in India in the follow 
ing courses mentioned in order of preference. 


4 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 10 , 1966 . 


) 


( a) Medicine and allied subjects including Nursing. 
( b ) Engineering and Architectury . 
( c ) Agriculture , Forestry and Veterinary Science . 
(d ) Technology . 
( e ) Science . 
(f ) Education and Social Service . 
(g ) Humanities (including Arts ), Social Science , Fine Arts and Linguages. 
( b ) Commerce . 

(i) Law and Library Science . 
Note : Tha minimum qualification for admission to a course for which Scholar 
ship can be awarded should be a pags in the Matriculation or any higher Examination . 

( 4 ) The primary consideration in the award of scholarsbips shall be merit 
of the candidate but the Board may take steps to ensure that States which contain 
& substantial proportion of members of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and 
Other Backward Classes are adequately represented in the final list of awards. 

5 . The Board shall also take into consideration the financirl position of tho 
candidates , parents or guardians and for this pirpose euch candidate will have to 
furnish the Board with a certificate from a Revenue Officer not below the rank of 
a Tebsildar/Deputy Tehsildar, where ever such a designation is used , testifying the 
income of his / ber Purepts or guardians . 

6 . Candidates whose parent s/ guardian s income is above Rs. 499 per mensum 
are not eligible for these Scholarsbips . 

7. Applications for scholarships shall be made in the prescribed form through 
the Heads of the Instituations attended or last attended by the candidates and 
shall be addressed to the Secretary , Scheduled Castes. Scheduled Tribes and Other 
Backward Classes Scholarships Board , Ministry of Education , New Delhi-2 , in accor 
dance with the instructions issued from time to time. 

8. A candidate to whom a scholarship is awarded shall forth with inform the 
Board whether he is willing to accept the scholarship on the terms prescribed . 

9 . If a candidate is found to have obtained scholarship by false statements , 
his /her scholarship will be cancelled forth with and the amount of the scholarship 
paid will be recovered , at the discretion of the Board . 

10 . The scholarships shall bj tonable only in the Institutions which may ba 
approved by the Board for this purpose . 

11. The value of each scholarship will cover the expenditure to be incurred 
by scholars for their studies, as follows : 

(a ) Enrolment or registration , tuition , games union , library, magazine, medical 
and examination fees, actually payable by the scholar to the Institution 

Uni . 
versity / Board . 

and (b ) Maintenance charges payable from 1st April or from the month of 
admission , whichever is later , to the month in which the examination is comple 
ted at tbe end of the academic year, whether in bostel or as a dry scholar 
( including maintenance during holidays and expenditure on books, stationery etc.) 
provided that if the scholar secures admission after the 20th day of a month , the 
payment will be made from the month following the month of admission . 


or 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 10 , 1955 . 


5 


1 


Course 


as in 


Note :-(i) The term hostel shall include an approved mess recognised by 

the Head of Institutivn . 
( ii) In case of renewals of scholarships awarded in the previous year, 

maintenance charges will be paid from the month following the 
montb upto which scbolarship was paid last year, if the 
of study is continuous ( e. g . from Intermediate Jr. to Intermediate 
Sr. Class ). If the scholar joins a new course of study (e . g . from 
B , A. to M. A. course ), maintenance charges will be paid 

clause (b ) above . 
( iii ) All scholars are required to purchase the necessary text books , 

stationery etc., out of the maintenance charges sanctioned . They 
should forward immediately after receiving the 1st instalment of 
scholarship amount, a certificate countersigned by the Head of the 
Institution that they possess the prescribed text books. If it i 
found that a scholar is without text books etc , the value of the 

scholarship may be reduced at the discretion of the Board . 
12 . The following monthly rates of maintenance charges for various courses of 
studies have been prescribed . These can be altered at any time, at the discretion 
of the Government . 


Course of Study . 


Monthly Rate for | Monthly Rate for 
Hostellers . 

Day Scholars . 
Rs. 

Rs. 


1 . 


I. Sc . , I. A., I. Com . , 1. Sc . Ag . 
B. Sc ., B. A., B. Com ., Diploma 
courses in Agriculture and Veteri 
nary Science 
Diploma 

in 
Indian Medicine , Hygiene & Public 
Health and Senitary Inspector s 


40 , 


27 / 


II . 


and Degree 


courses 


courses . 


40 / 


27 / 


40 / 


27 / 


501 


35 / 


50 / 


35 / . 


35 / 


50 / 
60 / 


45 / 


Ill. ( ) Teacher s Training (under gra 

duate ). 
(b ) Teacher s Training (Post gra 

duate ) . 
IV . M. So., M. A .., M. Com . LL . B. and 

third year Hons courses . 
V. B. Bc ., in Agriculture , B. V. Sc. 
VI . Post - graduate course in Agriculture. 
VII. D. Sc.. D. Litt ., Ph . D. 
VIII. Diploma C0111308 in Engineering 

Teshnology and Medicine 
IX . Degree 

in Engineering, 
Technolgy and Medicine. 
Trade courses e . g ., Telegraphy , 
Book -keepiog , Typing and Short 
hand , Tailoring 


60 / 


45 / 


65 / 


50 / 


courses 


75 / 

60 / 
Ad hoc financial assistance at the rato 
of Rs. 20 / - per inonth ( inclusive of 
fees ) : 


- 


6 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 10 , 1955 . 


PROVIDED THAT : 


( a ) Full Scholarship will be given to 
(i) scholars whose pare nt s / guardian s income is below 

below Rs. 2010 /- per 
nionth and 
(ii) to scholars who are employed on a monthly income upto Rs. 60 / 

and whose parent s /guardian s income is below Rs. 200 /- per month . 
(b ) 3/4 maintenance charges and full fees payable will be given to scholars 

whose parent s /guardian s income is Rs. 200 / - per month or above but is 

below Rs . 300 /- per month . 
(c ) 1/2 maintenance charges and full fecs payable will be given to scholars 

of the following categories : - 
( i) whose parent s /guardian s income is Rs. 300 /- or above but is below 

Rs. 400/- per month . 
( ii ) who are themselves employed on a monthly income of Rs. 61.175 

per month and whose parent s, guardiau s income is below Rs. 200 / 

per month . 
( iii ) whose parent s /guardian s income is Rs . 400 / - or above but is below 

Rs. 500 / - per month provided that the number of cbildren receiving 
Post-Matriculation education is more than one. ( Scholarships under 

this category will be restricted to 3 children only in a family ). 
(d ) Scholarship -lolders who are entitled to free boarding and /or lodging 

will be entitled to maintenance charges as under and fees payable : 
(i) Free boarding and lodging 

1/3 maintenance charges at hos 

teller s rates . 
( ii) Free boarding 

1/3 maintenance charges at 
hosteller s rates plus Re. 5 /- per 
month . 


( iii ) Free lodging 


Maintenance charges at hostel 
lers rates minus Rs. 6/6 per 
month . 


1 


( e ) Study tour charges upto a maximum of Rs 100 / - per year will be paid 

to scholars studying professional courses , provided that the Head of the 
Institution certifies that study tour is essential for the scholar for the 
completion of his course of study . Thosis /typing / printing charges upto 
a maximum of Rs 100 /- will also be paid to Research soholars selected 

under the Scheme, on the recommendation of the Head of the Institution . 
13 . A Government of India scholarship holder will not bold any other scholar 
ship except a merit scholarship from University or Board or from the State Government 
or a grant for purcbase of text books from any source ; but if awarded State 
Government or any other scholarship of higher value not based on merit, he/ she 
will have the option to avail of that scholarship after refunding the entire amount 
of the Central Scholarship drawn during the year . In 

In 08.808 where the value of 
Central Scholarship is less than that of State Scholarship , the State Government 
may, if they bo desire, supplement the Central Scholarship of a particular scholar 
by raising it to the level of the State Soholarship . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 10 , 1966 . 


7 


14. The scholarship shall ordinarily he tenable for a period not exceeding one 
academic year it may be renewed at the discretion of the Board subject to funds 
being available for a period not exceeding one academic year at a time to enable 
the holder to complete an approved course of study . 

16. If a scholar fails to pass the annual examination for the course of study 
for which scholarship is awarded in a year, the scholarship will automatically cease 
and his scholarship will ordinarily be renewed . He may , however, apply for a fresh 
scholarship again after passing the annual examination in future year . If & scholar 
is unable to appear in the annual examination owing to illness, he should inform 
the Board accordingly before the examination is over through the Head of the 
Institution with a medical certificate from registered medical practitioner ; failing 
which his application for renewal of scholarship will not be considered . The application 
for renewal will be considered only if the Head of the Institution , on the basis of 
performance , certifies that the candidate was likely to pass if he had taken the 
Examination . 

16. A scholarship shall be cancelled if the scholar changes the subjeot of course 
for which the scholarship was originally awarded or changes the Institution of study , 
WITHOUT THE PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE BOARD . The Heads of Institu 
tions shall report such cases to the Board and stop payment of scholarship money . 
The amount already paid may also be recovered at the discretion of the 

the Board . 
17 A scholar is liable to refund the scholarship amount at the discretion of 
the Board if be discontinues his studies during the course of the year for which 
& scholarship is awarded . 

18. Every scholar shall submit to the Board a statement at the end of each 
term from the Head of the Institution in regard to his progress and general conduet. 
if it should appear at any time that scholar has by reason of his 

act or 
default failed to make satisfactory progress or has been guilty of misconduct such 
as resorting to or participating in strikes , irregularity in attendance without permis 
sion of the authorities concerned etc. , the Board may either cancel the scholarship 
or stop or withbold further payment for such period as they may think fit . 

19. The scholarship moneys shall be paid in two half yearly instalments by means of 
a Remittance Transfer Receipt drawn in the nearest branch of the Imperial Bank of India 
or the nearest Government Treasury / Sub - Treasury , in favour of the Head of the Institu 
tion in which the scholar is enrolled . It is also the responsibility of the scholar to see that 
the receipt signed by him for the payment received in each instalment is forwarded 
through the Head of the Institution to the Board as soon as the period covered 
by euch instalment is over , otherwise the payment of the 2nd instalment will be 
delayed . l ayments are not ordinarily made by Postal Order but if made in this 
manner in any exceptional case , the Postal commission shall 

be deducted out of 
the scholarship amount. 

PART IV 


OWO 


NOTICE. 

Impbal, the 4th August , 1955. 
No. 2/F / 55-56 . — It is hereby notified for general information that pursuant to 
Seotion 69 of the Indian Partnership Act IX of 1932 M /S. Motilal Ghisalal has 
been incorporated that it is * Partnership Firm and qumbered as 2 of 1955-56 , 
dated the 4th August of the year one thousand nine hundred and fiftyfive Anno 
Domini. 

U. M. Sinha , 
Rogistrar, Firm , Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 10 , 1955 . 


Imphal, the 2nd August, 1958 . 
No. C.HDE72 /55 / 13. –The following Results of Normal and G. T. Examina . 
tions, 1955 , are published for general information. 

T. Kipgen , 

Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur , 
Results of Normal Final Examination , 1955 . 
First Division 

Nil 
Second Division 

1. Liankbogin 
Third Division 

1. Thankholal Kipgen 
Simple Pass (Not in order of merit ) .. 1. W. I boyaima Singh 

2. Ching neilum Kipgen 
Rosults of the G. T. Final Examination , 1958 . 


:: 


.. 


First Division 

1. G. Sanihar Sarma 
Second Division ( In order of merit ) 1. Ch . Babulal Singh 

2. A. Achow Singh 
3. M. Tomba Singh 

f . L. Clarke 
5. W. Kulabidhu Singh 

6. O. Amujao Singh 
Third Division ( In order of merit ) 1. Sm . Kb . Ibemhal Devi 

2. Shangazam 
3. H. Khelendra Singh 
1. Sm . H. Lalita Devi. 
5. N. Achow Singh 
6. I. Gokulchandra Singh 

7. Kh. Rajendra Singh 
Simple pass (Not in order of merit ) ... 1. Kb. Shyamkishore Singh 

2. Th . Nabakanta Singh 
3. M. Maipakohao Singh 
4. Paok bolua 
5. S. Ramtung Moyon 
8. Vi- tho 
7. Miss K. Elangai 
8. K. Adani 
9. MD. Ismail 
10. Ng. Konte 
11. Taleping 

12. Toalkhothang 
Candidates who are allowed to sit at the Compartmental Etimidatida . 
1. H. Chinaosung, Normal 

Matharnatics 
2. Shri L. Bidhu Singh , Normal 

do 
3. Bhri P. Pondachand Singh G. T. 

do 
4. Sbri I. Basantakumar Singh , G. T. Practice Teaching . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 10 , 1958 . 


TENDER NOTICE No. 15 of 1965 . 

Impbal, the 3rd August, 1955 . 
Sealed tenders for the supply of the following furnitures for the office of the 
Deputy Inspector of Schools , ( Tribal) Manipur are invited and will be received by 
the undersigned upto 1 p . m . of the 19th August, 1955 . 

Successful tenderer is to supply the furniture at the office & no transport charge 
will be given . Successful tenderer shall have to deposit Rs. 25 / - as earnest money 
which will be refunded after successful completion of the work . 
Particulars 

No. 

Size . 
Office Almirah seasoned 
Uningthou and of good design . 2 

6 x 3 % x 1 
The undersigned does not bind himself to accept the lowest tender or to assign 
any reason thereof . 

N. Modoli , 
Deputy Inspector of Schools , 

( Tribal) Manipur . 


NOTICE No. IS / 31 /52 

Imphal, the 4th August, 1956 . 
Sealed tenders are invited for supply of the following articles for the Office of 
the Inspector of Schools. Tenders will be received by the undersigned upto 12 noon 
of 18-8-55 during office hours . The successful tenderer will have to deposit 20 % of 
the value as caution money and the same money will be refunded after completion 
of supply of articles. Full particulars may be had from the office of the under 
signed during office hours . 
1. Ono Almirah 

6 " 31 " x 11 
2. Two ordinary cane seated chairs . 
3. One Secretariat chair . 
4 . One side Table 

2 } X2 x 2 
5 . One table 

4 X 3 X 27 
One Arm bench . 
No. of articles may be increased or decreased according to the unavailability 
of provision . 

L. M. Singh , 
Offg . Inspector of Schools , Manipur. 


6 . 


Thoubal Athokpam , the 6th August , 1956 . 
No. CP / V - 1 /52 /SSE . - The followiog food grains are available for sale in our stock . 
Quotations are invited from intending purchasers and will be received by the under 
signed upto the 31st August , 1955 . 
1. Pea (ordinary ) . 

Rate per md. 
2. do . (Makhamubi) 

do 
3 . Kesari. 

do 
4. Maize (Khasi wbite round ). 

do 
5. Arohara . 
6. Mung . 

do 
7. Matikalai. 

do 
8. Paddy. 

do 

K : L. Singh , 
Project Executive Officer , Wanipur. 


do 


I0 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 10 , 1968 . 


. 


১৮ 


ইম্ফালদা নেশনেল ভােলুনটিয়ার ফোর্শ কেশ 


ইমাল, তাং ২৮।৭।৫৫ ইং জুলাই । 
মনিপুরদা নেশনে ভােটিয়ার কেম্প ভাং ১৫ সেপ্তেদশ খুলিগনি মানু অং ১৪ ওরে ১৯৪৫ দ 
লােগনি । নেশনেল ভােলুটিয়ার ফোর্স হায়বা অলি লানগদমক্তা লৈবাক কিনবা নত্তে , মসিগী মরু ওই রাখলদি 
দেশ বাশি দিংমক জাতিগ ওইনা খাং কনবা , লমচৎ ব্যবহার ফজ অমসুং দেশগ সেবাদা পুচিংবা অনননি । 

মুমিৎ ৩০ নিগ ট্রেনিং অসি , চহি ৫ গ মনুদা মী লাখ মাদা পীগনি, ভারতকী মফম খুদিং নে ১ লাদগী 
কেশ ২০০ লিংদুনা মী লাখ অমা ট্রেনিং গদবনি । ট্রেনিং টিম খুদিংমক কেপতেন অমলা ওফিসার কলিং 
ওইগনি । 

ত্রেনিং চংৰা য়া -য়াদ অমসুং শ্রেনি অমন তৌগদ মরমশিং 
চহি ১৮ দগী ৪০ ফাওবগী মনুদা লৈ মশা ফব ভারতকী নাগরিক সুদিংমক চংবা গনি । সিফাই খ 
অসং এন, সি , সি , কেডেত ওইরিবশিদি গাওবা , মারােই । 

মশানা য়ানা ট্রেনিং ভৌগদৌরিবা মী খুদিংমক অরেঙ্গা নাইদনা কুমিৎ ৩০ নিগী ট্রেনিং নপুং ফানা য়াওগদবনি , ট্রেনিং 
লৈরিঙৈদা করিগু মিলিটারি এক্ত অমত্তগী মখাপােন নত্তে, লােইরগ মিলিটারি সাতিশ চংগদখনি হায় করি 
তা লৈতে । 

ট্রেনিশিংনা ট্রেনিংদা লৈরিঙৈদা শােক - পন , লাইনা পকপকপা অমসুং শিবা থােকসবদি সরকার মানুপ দায়ি 
লৌহুনা পেলন নগা করিগু মখলগ ক্ষতি পুরন পররাই । 

কনাগু ট্রেনি অমৰু , মরম চানা , কেম্পতগী , তাহােকপা , মাগী পােকেট এলায়েন্স ককথৎপনচিংবাওফিশর 
কলিং তৌবা মই । ট্রেনিশিংগীদমক তমুর খন কেম্প লৈফম ফংগনি । 

জেনিঙদা লৈরিঙৈদা ত্রেনিশিঙনা ফংগদ অমসুং অতৈ অকুপ- অ ” 
ট্রেনিশিংনা কেম্প লৈরিঙৈদা শিজিক্সবা কেম্পকী পােৎ খুদিংমক ট্রেনিং লােইরগা অমুক লৌশিনহেগনি। 

বেশনঃ - ট্রেনিংদা লৈরি মী খুদিংমক ফ্রি রেশন ফংগনি নগা নােমদা ট্রেনি অমল রেশন এলাওয়েল ওই 
সুপা ১০ ( শিকি মঙ ) ফংগনি । হায়রি এলাওয়েল অলি রেশন সপ্লাই তৌবা ঙমবা মতমতনি । 

তলৰ অমসুং এলায়েন্স ট্রেনিং মপুঃ ফারবা মতুংদা মী অমন নোংমদা মখাই ১ গী ( ০ ) হিংসা 
মিৎ ৩০ নিগ সুপা ১০ পােকেট খচ্চা ফংগনি । 

অৱা পােগ্রামঃ- ট্রেনিং টিম খুদিংশ অৱ -পােৰানব মরমদা লুপা ৩০০, কাইথথাকলি, মাসিনা ট্রেনিশিংগী 
পুনিং শৌগৎনবা অফ মাইকৈদা শেমগৎ শাগৎপগী ওইনা — পাননবা নুঙাইবা ইরিক লাইশু, থামফোন রেকোর্ড ভাবা , 
ইশ-নােমাইগী যন্ত্র খােবা , মখল মখলগ শায়বা অসিনচিংবা অসিঙ্গ দমা চাদিং তৌগনি । 

অকুপ অতঃ —ইনামেল্লড মগ, মেস তিন , মখল মখলগ খাকি কুরিৎ অমসুং খােএাও, তুপ, চেপালি, বেগ , 
গছ, খােং মােজা অমসুং পেতীনচিংবা ট্রেনি পুদিংস মশিং শুনা শগনি । 
তমগদ হিমঃ -লামী অমনা খংবা য়াবা বিষয় খুদিংমক অমা না অসীগনি । 

এচ, আই, সিংহ , 

রেভিনিউ এসিতে , 
টু ডি ডিট কমিশনার, মনিপুর । 


Thoubal Athokpam , the 6th August , 1955 . 
No. CP /V - 1/ 52 SSE —Quotations are invited from intending suppliers for supply 
of the following and will be received by the undersigned upto the 30th August , 


15 
. 


1. Rice bran . 
2. Wheat bran . 
৪ . Maize Crusled ). 

. Wheat . do. 
6 . 
6. Paddy . 
7. Cbapal . 
8. Fish -meal. 


Rate per md . 

do, 
do. 
do . 
do . 


Gram . 


do ; 


do . 
do . 


K. L. Singh , 
Project Executive Officer, Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 10 , 1965 . 


u 


. 


Impbal, the 9th August, 19.16 . 
No. F /DPC /70/63 . –The following draft announcement is published for general 
information : 

T. Kipgen , 

Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 
DRAFT ANNOUNCEMENT 
The Central Social Welfare Board will consider enrly in November applications 
for grants from voluntary institutions for the period November, 1955 to March , 1956 . 
Institutions may send in their applications to this office immediately in any case not 
later than 20th Angust , 19.35 on tby prescribed proforma, copies of which can be 
obtained from this office . The original copy with a copy should be sent to this office 
and another advance copy to the Central Social Welfare Buard , 10 -- Kitchner Road , 
Diplomatic Enclave , New Delhi. The following conditions may be carefully noted by 
institutions intending to make applications. 

(1 ) An application will not be considered from any institution , which has already 
received a grant for a period extending upto the 31st March , 1966 . 

( 2 ) Applications for starting now institutions in areas now included in a Welfare 
Extension Project will not be considered , except from institutions which have already 
existed in that area before the starting of that project . 

(3 ) Every ipstitution should give complete information about its management, 
that is , whether it is run by an individual or by Managing Committee elected 
or non -elected . Full details of existing assets and collections already made by volun . 
tary effort bbould be furnished . 

( 4 ) Every application should give brief details of the scheme for which the 
grant will be uptilised , as also the institution s normu) expenditure on those items and 
its matching contribution . 

In cases where the scheme is the maintenance of orphanago or a home for destitute 
wonen , etc. , or for the free distribution or milk or medicines , the number of existing 
iomates or beneficiaries and the additional number to be benefitted by grant should 
be clearly indicated . 

( 5 ) Branches of all India and regional organisations should be asked to send 
their applications to the Central Office of their organisation . The Central Office of 
the organisation should send the original application with its recommendation to the 
State Board and an advance copy for information to the Central Board , also with 
its recommendation , 
Note :-The statement of income and expenditure furnished by Branch should 

relate only to its owa income and expenditure, had not to the whole orga 
pisation . This applies also in cases where the same institution has a number 

of separate Branches in different places. 

(6 ) Since the grant will be only for a period of 6 six months, institutions should 
frame their , estimates for this period only and ask for only so much as they can 
spend by the end of March , 1956. No extention of the period will be granted 
subsequently . 

(7) A request for a gặant for each purpose should indicate the total ro 
quirements of the institution for the period in question for that purpose and the 
amount which will be met from its own resources . In tbe oase of requests for grants 
for new buildings, it should be indicated whether the institution has legal title to the 
land on wbich the building is príposed to be constructed . Similary , in the case of 
requests for grants for additions or alternations to buildings, it should be clearly indicated 
whether the institution has legal title to the land and existing building. 


8 


12 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 10 , 1956 . 


NOTICE . 


Imphal, the 4th August , 1966, 
No. CL / 12 /55 / 95. - Applications of own band -writing , stating age on 1-8-55 , educa 
tional qualification , full name and address , previous experience, number of wife living it 
married are invited for the post of two temporary office assistants in the scale Rs. 40-2-50 
3-80-4.100 /- p.m. and one temporary peon in the scale Rs. 22 1.28 /- p.m. plus the usual 
allowances in the Claims Office. None need apply who is not a Matriculate of a recognised 
university for the post of the office assistants . Other things being equal preference will 
be given to candidates knowing one or more local languages and typing knowledge . 

Applications should reach the undersignod on or before the 19th August, 1956 during 
office hours . The candidates are to appear at the Claims Office for interview with testi 
monials on 20-8-55 at 1 ) a.m. 

O , KATHIPRI, 
Asstt . Secretary (Claims) to the Govt . of 

Manipur. 


Imphal, the 4th August, 1955 . 
No. 1/ F /55-56 . - It is hereby notified for general information that pursuant to 
Section 59 of the Indian Partnership Act IX vi 1932 M / 8 . Motilal Ghhiganlall has 
been incorporated that it is & Partnership Firm and numbered as 1 of 1955-56 . 
dated the 4th August of the year one thousand nine hundred and fifty five Anno 
Domini. 

U. M. Sipba 
Registrar , Firm , Manipur . 


Imphal, the 9th August, 1955 . 
No. K / IN -40/55 . The following Press Note received from the Government of 
India letter No. LW1-53 (3/55 dated 29-7-56 is publisbed for general information . 

G. K. Singh , 
Asstt. Secretary (Home) to the Govt. of Manipur. 


PRESS NOTE . 
INSTRUCTIONS TO EMPLOYEES TO DECLARE AUGUST 15 

A PAID HOLIDAY . 


In pursuance of instructions issued by the Central Ministry of Labour on pre 
vious anniversaries of Independence Day , Workers were permitted to participate in 
the August 15th celebrations without being made to suffer any lo88 in wages. 

A similar directive has been issued this year by the Govt. of India to their 
officers in charge of industrial undertakings and thay hope that other employers. 
also will co -operate with them by declaring this national day as a paid holiday . 

In view of the great importance of the occasion , Government believe that many 
industrial undertakings have already prescribed August 15th as one of the regular 
holidays but where this has not been done, they hope that the employers will tront 
the day an additional paid holiday and not as a substituted holiday. 


Imphal :-heted and published by the Superintendent, Goveramut Prown . O. 800710-8-56 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 25 


Imphal, Wednesday , August 17 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Pago 


1 


Part I. - Appointments, Postings , Transfors, Powers , 

Lonvo and other personal notices, 
Part II. - Resolutions , Regulations, Orders , Notif 

cations , Rules etc. 


Part III. - Orders , Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Noticos eto . 


Nil 
4 to 6 


1 to 4 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 13th August, 1965 . 
No. R /22 /56 ( A ) . --The Chief Commissioner is pleased to deaction the creation 
of ope post of a Sub - Deputy Collector in the Revenue Department in the scale 
of Rs. 150-150-200 ( Con )-10-260 (EB )-10-300-123-375 (EB )-121-150 /- for the period 16th 
August , 1956 to 29th February , 1956 . 

The expenditure will be met from within the sanctioned budget estimates for 
the year 1956-56. 

A. K. Ray 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur, 


PARTU 

Imphal, the 12th August , 1955 . 
No. R /Fy/ 3 /53. — The Chief Commissioner is pleased to sanction the dereservation 
of Fishery No. 347 Kongba Ahanhi Fishery from the Register of Govt . fisheries 
with effect from 1st April , 1956 for irrigation purposes. 


Imphal, the 13th August , 1955 . 
No. Tax /11/55. - As under the resolution of the Imphal Town Fund Committee 
dated 6th August , 1939 approving the Chuiridan s (Ur.Gimson s ) note on taxation , 
municipal taxes 

levied on residential buildings arə recoverable from the owners 
( patta -holders) of such buildings, the Chief Commissioner has been pleased to decide 
that all municipal taxes payable in respect of Govt. residential buildings in Imphal 
should henceforth be paid by the department in administrative control of the building 
on demand from them by the Town Fund in accordance with Section II ( 2 ) of Appendix 
19 to the General Financial Rules, Vol . II , the portion of such taxes not being in 
the nature of property or hjuse taxes being recovered by the Department from the 
oocupants concerned . 

A. K. Ray , 
Cbiz teretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 17 , 1956 . 


Imphal, the 16th August , 19.55 . 
No. D -HP /58 /54. --In exercise of the power conferred upon him under Section 
4 of Cr, P. C., the Chief Commissioner is pleased to upgrade the New Churachand 
pur Police Out Post to a police station and to declare it as such with its juris 
diction noted below . This will come into effect from the date of issue of the order . 

WEST From Tipaimukh along the Barak river upto Irangmukh . 
NORTH - From Irangmukh along the Irang river upto Vantungbung Hill 

and thence via Khanpi, Nayang , Gouthang and Ukha villages, 
meeting the Loklao river Lear 32 mile stone on Tiddim Rond 
and thence along the Khuga river ( leaving Saiton ) upto Impbal 

river . 
EAST Along Tiddim Road upto Lcklao stream . A long the Loklao stream 

towards east upto Khuga river. Along the Khuga river 
the Manipur river. Again along the Manipur river 
No. 2273. 


SOUTH 


· From No. 5808 along the Ruivai or Tipai river upto No. 2972 
and 317 meets the Ruivai river again and flows into the Barak 
river at Tipaimukh . 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


List of main villages falling within the proposed P.S. in Churachandpur 

Sub -Division . 


A. 


G. 


1 . Aioulon 
2 . Aingin 
3. Ankhumbung 


24. Gangpimol Pautinsei 
25. Gangpimual Nangchin 
26 . Gelmol Khuman 
27 . Gelmol Khunou 
28. Gotongpbai 
29. Gothang 


B 


5 . 


H. 


4. Behiang Jamkhogin 

Bebiang Tuanthong 
6 . Bisanmol 
7. Bijang Loubuk 
8. Boktai 
9 . Bollen 
10. Bongbal 
11 . Bonglusi 
12. Bukpi 
13. Bungkot 
14. Bungmual 
15 . Buksau 


30. Hanship 
31. Hiangdung 
33. Miangtam 
33. Hiangtan Lamka 
34. Henglep 
35. Hlavom 
36. Hlangbung Tonkhai 
37. Hengkon 
38. Hanzang 
39. Hangzol 


C. 


K. 


16. Changpikot 
17. Chengkonpang 
18. Chithemunpi 
19. Churachandpur Head Quarter 
20 . 

Lambu Lane 
21 . 

Mission 
D. 


40. Kaiblam 

1. Kamkeiton 
42 Kangkap 
48. Kwgol Paulen 
44. Kangvai 
45. Kaprang 
46 . 

-do- Bolzang 


22. Dopkon 

Dumsaumual 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 17 , 1985. 


N 


107. Naopanglon . 
108. Nappho . 
109. Najang . 
110. Ngaljung 
111. Ngatha ). 
112. Ngoiphai. 


47. Khaukual 
49. Khabpi 
50. Khazang 
51. Khodaaug 
82. Khongjang 
63. Khoinoi 
54. Khongkhosongpha 
55. Kbomom 
66. Koong mun 
67. Khopibung Bungkhothang 
68. Khopibung Hleia 
59 . Kolhen 
60 . 

Kolmun 
61. Konpui 
62 , Kotlen 
63. Kumpipukri 
64. Khullian 


P. 


L. 


113. Palkhuang 
114 . Pamjal 
115. Panglian 
116 . Pangem 
117. Pangsang 
118. Parbung 
119. Parvachom 
120 . Pearsonmua 
121. Pengjang 
122 . Pharhel 
123 . Pbailea 
124. Phaitong 
125. Phaijang 
126 . Phaikbolum 
127. Pherzaw ! 
128 . Pbairan 
129. Pumkotminjang 


65. Lamzang 
66 . Lailong Songkholal 
67. Lailong Lamzapau 
68. Leizangphai 
69 . Leirikvaison 
70. Leisa ug 
71. Leisen 
72. Laisan Tampak 
73. Lingsiphai 
74. Lungchin 
75. Lungmot 
76. Lungsai 
77. Lungthul Donglam 
78 , -do Enkhovung 
78 . -do Thangkhohau 
80. Lungthulen 
81. Lokhamoi 
82. Lalumbung 


R. 


130. Rangkai 


S. 


M. 


83. Maite 
86. Mata 
86. Moldak 
86. Molphong 
87. Molpi 
88. Matijang 
89 . Mata Moltam 
90. Mongon 
91. (Muallum ) 
92. Mualnuam 
93. Mongken ( Jamkhuhon ) 
94. Mongkep (Vungmiotnang ) 
96. Monghlam 
96. Molnom ( Thanghom ) 
97. Molbem 
98. Mualkot 
gg . Mongbung 
100. Molvaiphes 
101. Molkot Thingobom 
168, Mongjang (Limso ). 
103 Mulam 
104 Munipi ( Thiankhokam ) 
106. Munpi: ( Sonkbojam ) 
106. Muntha Tampak 


191. Sagang 
132 . Saibok 
133. Sangaikot 
134 . Samulamalan 
135 . Saidan 
136. Saikot 
197. Saikul 
139. Sanglel 
139. Baicbang 
140 . Saite 
141. Saipum 
142 . Solmát 
143 . Sialbu 
144. Salvablangbang 
145 . Seken 
146. Senvon 
147. Singheo 
148. Singtam (Paojam ) 
149. Singngat 
150 . Sialnah 
181 . Sibden 
162. Sinjang 
163. Sinjol 
154. Songkong 
155 , 
166 . Songtal 
187. Songgol 
168 , Songkot 
189 . 

Songpi 
160. Songsibok 


songsang 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 17 , 1956 . 


161. Songpeh . 
162. Sumtukphai. 
133. Suangdob . 


188. Tonglon ( Pumjakham ). 
189. Tooglon (Khaikholun ) . 
190. Thingkeubung 
191 . Thingpan . 
19 2 Tuikuimuallum 
193. Tolbung 
194. Tuibuang 
195. Tuaitengphai 


T 


U. 


196 . 
197 . 


Ukba 
Umtal 


V. 


164. Tangmual. 
165 . Tanghuam . 
166. Taogpijol. 
167 . Taithu . 
168 , Thanlon . 
169. Tangjeng turenmapah . 
170 . Takvom . 
171. Temnol . 
172 . Thepmol. 
173 , Teijang . 
174 . Teineng 
175. Theigodang 
176. Tolphei 
177. Popokpi 
178 , Tuibuljang 
179 . Tuidam 
180 . Tuitum (Letjakam ) 
181 . Tuitum (Vumkam ) 
182. Tuithapi. 
188. Tringphaisan . 
184. Tuiningkhal . 
185 . Tuikham . 
186 . Tonjang . 
187. Thingkangphai. 


198. Vangtungbung (Suikhothang ) 
199. Vazing 
200. Vokbual (Lengthong ) 
201. Vokbual (Mangjalam ) 
202. Vungbuk . 


Z. 


203. Zangkum . 

Illegible, 22-7-55 . 
Sub - Divisional Officer , 

Churachandpur. 


Impbal, the 16th August , 1955 . 
The following lettor No. 37 / 20 /55 - Police I , dated the 6th August, 1955 , received 
from the Government of India , Ministry of Home Affuirs , New Delhi- 2 , is republished 
for general information . : 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


31st 


Subject : - Redesignation of the post of Superintendent of Police 28 Inspector 

General of Police , Manipur sanction for 
With reference to your lotter No. HP/97 /52 , dated the August 1954 . 
on the above subject, I am directed to say that the President is ple us 3d to re lesignate 
the post of the Superintendent of Police , Manipur as Inspsctor General of Police , 
Manipur. The change in the designation of the post will not, however, ontitle the 
incumbent of the post to draw pay in the scale of pay laid dowa for the post of 
Inspector General of Police , that is to say , he will draw only the pry and all wincas 
admissible to a Superintendent of Police . 


PART IV 


NOTIFIO A TION 


Impbal, the 16th August , 1955 . 
No. A /P /53/4 ( S )-Applications stating age , home district, technioal qualification 

Overneers 
possessed and previous experience if any are invited for appointment as 
in the Manipur Public Works Department in the scale of Rs . 120-120-13 )-Con -5-146 
EB - 10-246 - EB - 10-275 /- plus Dearness Allowance @ 174 % so as to reach the under 
signed on or before the 25th August , 1955. Higher initial pay may be given to 
suficiently qualified and experienced persoas . 

Other things being equal, persons with 
knowledge of local language and conditions will be given preference . 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 17 , 1958 . 


NOTICE . 


No. 15 of 1966 , 


Imphal, the 16th August , 1955. 
Manuscript copies of literatures for children and adult neo- literates written on 
varied subjects are invited from the Public . These literatures are meant for free 
distribution to children and adults and as such they are to be written in Manipuri 
in the form of booklets not exceeding 20/30 pages when printed . They should be 
well illustrated and written in easy short sentences . Writers of selected books will 
be reasonably remunerated . Intending writers may see the undersigned during office 
hours . 

B. C. Roy , 
Offg . Deputy Inspector of Schools , 

Manipur ( Valley ) 


No. T. 16/55 


noon 


Impbel, the 16th August , 1955 . 
Sealed tenders will be received from the registered contractors apto 12 

of 31-8-55 in the office of the Executive Engineer, Irrigation Division for 
the undermentioned work . Details may be made available from the office during 
office hours . 
Name of work 

Estimated cost Earnest monoy 
1. Construction of Hill Ward 
in Civil Hospital, Imphal. 

79,443 / 

2,000 / 


Y. T ombi Singh , 
Executive Engineer. 
Irrigation Division , Imphal. 

P. W. D. Mauipur . 


WANTED 


Imphal, the 9th August, 1956 . 
Applications stating age , home address , qualifications etc. and addressed to the 
Principal,- are invited for the post of a lecturer in Botany for the Gort . D. M. 
College , Imphal in scale of 175-175-200-15-350-20-450 /- p.m. plus D.A. @ 171 % . 
The post is at present temporary with prospect of being made permanent . 

Age - Below 30 years. 
Qualifications : 

Essential minimum : 2nd class M. Sc . in Botany . 
Desirable : (1 ) Special study of plant Physiology of Cytogenetios & ( 2 ) 

At least three years teaobing experience . 
Last date for receipt of applications : 31-8-55 . 

Other things being equal preference will be given to persons having knowledge 
of local languages and condition . 


N. B. Simba , 

Principal, 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 17 , 1956 . 


Imphal, the 16th August , 1955 . 
Wanted a lecturer each in English and Economics for the Govt. D. M. College , 
Imphal in scale of Rs. 176-170-200-15-350-20-450 /- plus D. A. ® , 171 % . 
Qualifications : (a ) Essential :-(i) For English -at least second class M. A , ia Gr. A , 

with Honours degree in the subject. 
( ii) For Economics - at least second class M. A , in Eco 

nomics (Gr. A if passed from C. U. before the 
break -up of the subject into Economics & Politics ) 

with Honours degree in the subject. 
Age :-For both – below 35 years . 
( b ) Desirable-- At least 3 years teaching experience upto Honoure 

standard . 


( c ) Applicants should also state the number of wives living. 

Other things being equal preference will be given to local can 
didates . Applications addressed to Principal to reach by 10-9-55 . 


N. B. Sinba , 

Principal, 


NOTIFICATION No. 11 of 1955 . 


Iinpbal, the 17th August, 1955 . 
Applications stating age, educational qualifications previous experience if any , full 
address and father s name are invited for one Temporary post of Lower Division 
Assistant for a period of 6 months upto the end of February , 1966 in tho pay 
Soale of Rs. 40-2-50 (EB )-3-80 (EB ) -4-100 with usual D. A. as admifsible under the 
rules for the Court of the Judicial Commissioner , Manipur and will be received 
by the undersigned upto 3 p . m . of 29th August, 1955. They are also to stato 
whether they have more than one wife living . Nove need apply who is not a 
Matriculate . Application should be addressed to the Judicial Commissioner, Manipur: 

Preference may be given to the candidate who knows Type -writing well . 

Candidates are to appear in the Office personally for interview on 31st August , 
1966 at 10 s . m , and they are to produce their testimonials in original. 


K. B. Singh , 

Registrar, 
Judicial Commissioner s Court , 

Manipur . 


Banglalitriated and published by the Superintendent, Government Prous . O. 300 / 17-8-85 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 26 


Imphal, Wednesday, August 24 , 1955. 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


1 


Part I. - Appointments , Postiags, Transfers, Powers , 

Leave and other personal noticer , 
Part II .- Rosolutions, Rogulations , Orders, Notif 

cations, Rules etc. 


Part III. - Orders Notifications, Rulos of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Noticos oto . 


Nil 
3 to 6 


I to 5 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 19th August , 1955 . 
No. FA / 2 /54 . - The Chief Commissioner is pleased to grant Shri K. Lamphel 
Singh , Project Executive Officer , Thoubal earded leave for 15 days from 18-4-1956 
under the Revised Leave Rules , 1933 as liberalised from 1-2-1949 . 


Impbal , the 19th August , 1956 . 
No. FA / 2 /64 . — The Chief Commissioner is pleased to grant Shri Suresh Chandra 
Bradban , Govt . Advooåte cum Public Prosecutor earnod leave for 12 days from 
-29-4-55 to 10-5-55 under the Revised Loave Rules , 1933 as liberalised from 1-2-1949 . 


A. K. Ray, 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


PART 1 


Imphal, the 19th August , 1966 . 
IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL COMMISSIONER FOR MANIPUR . 

Insolvency Case No. 3 of 1955 . 
Koijam Tombi Singh , son of Shri Akhiljit Singh of Thangıneiband Meisnain 
Leikai, P. S. Imphal. 

.Petitioner , 

Versus. 
1. Chanambam Ibomcha Singh son of late Ningthoujao Singh of Bishenpar , 

P. S. Bisbeppur. 
2. Elungbam Jatra Singh son of Angahal Singh of Thangmeibund Kabrambam 

Leikai, P. S. Imphal. 
3. Wahengham Indramani Singh son of late Chaoton Singh of Thangmsiband 

Meisnam Leikui, P. S. Imphal . 
4. Khundrakpam Sajou Singh of late Thambou Singh of Thangmeiband 
Meisnam Lejkai, P. S. Imphal . 

.........Opposite parties . 


son 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 24 , 1956 . 


In the matter of petition for adjudication as insolvent under 

Section 10 of the Proviucial Insolvenoy Act. 
Copy of the order passed by the Judicial Commissioner on 17th Augusto. 
1956 in the above noted case . 

ORDER 
The present application is allowed and Koijam Tombi Singh is adjudicated an 
insolvent. All his assests shall vest in the receiver who will proceed to deal with 
them according to law . 

Shri Ruhinikumar Singh Pleader is appointed receiver in this case . He will get. 
5 % of the realisation towards his fees . 
The insolvent is given 6 months time to apply for discharge. 

Brij Narain , 
Judicial Commissioner , 

17th August, 1985 , 


Imphal, the 19th August , 1985 . 
No. V - 10.FD . order /pub /55 .-- The following orders and notifications received from 
the Government of India , Ministry of Information and Broadcasting , New Delbi 
are republished for general information . 

Gopendra Sarma, 

Publicity Officer, Manipur. 
ORDER 

New Delhi- 2 , the 28th June, 1955 . 
S. R. O. In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions . 
of each of the enactments spacified in the First Schedule to the order of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S. R. O , 948 . 
dated the 28th April, 1986 , the Central Givernment with the previous avproval of the 
Film Advisory Board , Bombay hereby certifies the films specified in column 2 of the 
Schedule hereto annexed , in all their language versions, to be of the desoription 
specified against each in the corresponding entry of coluna 5 of the said Schedule. 

Schedule 


S. No. 


Title of the film . 


Name of the 
Producer. 


Source of 
supply . 


Whether a scientifio 
film or a film ioten 
ded for educational 
purposes or a film 
dealing with 
news 
and current events 
or 

documentary 
Slm . 


8 


u . 


2 


3 


4 


8 


1. Wheel of Prosperity . 


Govt. of India 
Films Division , 

Bombay . 


Documentary film . 


Govt. of 
India , 
Filnis 
Division , 
Bombay . 


2. Their Silent World . 


do 


do 


3. Fight the Floods . 
4. Food for Health . 


do 
do 


do 
Sri Ezra Mir 
for Govt . of 
India , Bilms 

Division . 


Film intended for 
educational purposes . 
Documentary film . 
Film intended for 
educational purposes .. 


( 1/ 10 / 85-1 : App /87) 

D. Krishna Ayyat, 
Undor Sooretary to the work of India . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 24 , 1906 . 


ORDER 


to 


New Delhi- 2 , the 23rd June , 1968 . 
S. R. O. In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions 
of each of the enactments specified in the First Sobedule the order of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S. R. O , 
948 dated the 28th April, 1955 , the Central Government with the provious approval 
of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay hereby certifies the film specified in column 
2 of the Schedule hereto annexed , in all its language versions , to be of the description 
specified against it in the corresponding entry of column 5 of the said Schedule . 


Schedulo . 


8. No. 


Tiitle of the film . 


Name of the 

Producer . 


Source of 
supply . 


Whether a scientific 
film or a film in ten 
ded for educational 
purposes or a film 
denling with news 
and current events 
OT & documentary 
filma . 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


1 . 


Indian News Review 

No. 349 , 


Govt. of India 
Filins Division , 

Bombay . 


Govt . of India , 
Films Division , 

Bombay. 


Film dealing with 
DOW8 and curront 
evente . 


( 1 / 16 /55 - F : App / 36 ) 

T. R. V. Chari , 
Deputy Seoretary to the Govt. of India . 


ORD ER 


New Delbi- 2 , the 7th July , 1955 . 
S. R. O. In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions 
of each of the enactments specified in the First Schedulo to the order of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S. R. O. 945 
dated the 28th April , 1965 , the Central Government with the previous approval 
of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay hereby certified the film specified in column 
2 of the Schedule hereto annexed , in all its language versions, to be of the descrip 
tion specified against it in the corresponding entry of columo 5 of the said Schedule . 

Schedulo . 


S. No. 


Title of the 
Film 


Name of 
the Producer 


Source of 
Supply . 


Whether a scientific film 
or a film intended for edu 
Ortional purposes or a filma 
dealing with news 
current events or a docu . 
mentary film . 


and 


1 


2 


3 


4 


1 . 


Indian News 
Reviow No. 361 


Govt . of India 
Films Division , 
Bombay. 


Govt . of India Film dealing with news 
Films Division and curront events . 
Bombay . 

( 1 / 16 / 68 - F : App / 39 ) 


D. Krishna Aygar. 
Under Secretary to the Govt. of Indis . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 24 , 1988 . 


ORDER 


New Delhi- 2 , the 14th July , 1968 . 
S. R. O. In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions 
of each of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the order of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S. R. O. 
946 dated the 28th April, 1966 , the Central Government with the previous approval 
of the Film Advisory Board , Bumbuy hereby certifies the film specified in column 
2 of the schedule hereto annexed , in all its language versions, to be of the descrip 
tion specified against it in the corresponding entry of column 6 of the said Schedule . 

Schodulo . 


8. No. 


Title of 
tho Film . 


Name of the 

Producer . 


Source of 
Supply . 


Whether a soientific film or a 
film intended for eduoational 
purposes or a film dealing 
with news and current events 
or a documentary film . 


1 . 


2 . 


3 . 


5 . 


1 . 


Indian News 
Roview No. 
352. 


Govt . of India , 
Films Division , 
Bombay . 


Govt . of India , Film dealing with news and 
Films Division , current events. 
Bombay . 

( 1 /16 /68.F : App / 40) 
sd - T . R. V. Chari , 
Deputy Secretary to the Government of India . 


NOTIFICATION 


New Delhi, the 9th July , 1955 . 
8. R. O. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (2) of section 5 of 
the Cinematograph Act , 1952 (XXXVII of 1962 ), the Central Government hereby 
directs that the film entitled " Four Guns To The Border " and its trailer produced 
by the Universal International Films Inc., USA . shall bo deemed to be uncertified 
films in the whole of India . 


(No. 8 / 10 / 55 - FC . ) 

D. Krishna Ayyr , 
Under Secretary to the Govt. of India . 


ORDER 


New Delhi- 2 , the 12th August, 1965. 
S. R. O. In pursuance of clause 2 of th , directions issund under the provisions 
of each of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the Order of the Govern 
mont of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S. R. O. 945 
dated the 28th April , 1955 , the Central Government with the previous approval 
of the Film Advisory Board . Bombay hereby certifies the film specified in column 
2 of the schedule hereto annexed , in all its language versio us, to be of the descrip 
tion specified against it in the corresponding entry of column 5 of the said schedule . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 24, 1956. 


Schodulo . 


S. No. 


Title of the 
Film . 


Name of the 
Producer . 


Source of 
Supply . 


Whether a soientifio film or 
a filma intended for educa 
tional purposes or 

a filan 
dealing with news and cur 
rent events or a documen 
tary film . 


1 


2 


3 


4 


6 


1 . 


Indian News 
Review No. 356 


Govt. of India 
Films Division , 
Bombay . 


Govt . of India , 
Filmns Division , 
Bombay . 


Film dealing with news 
and current events , 


( 1 / 16 /55 - F : App /44) 

D. Krishna Ayyar , 
Under Secretary to the Govt . of India . 


NOTIFICATION 


New Delhi.2 . the 12th August, 1956 . 
S. R. O .... In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 2 ) of section 5 of 
the Cinematograph Act, 1962 (XXXVII of 1952 ), the Central Government hereby 
directs that the film entitled " Man Without A Star " produced by the Universal 
International Film Inc., U. S. A. shall be deemod to be an uncertified film in the 
whole of India . 

( No. 8 / 18 /55 - F . C. ) 


D. Krishna Ayyar , 
Under Secretary to the Govt . of India . 


PART IV 


NOTIFICATION . 


Imphal, the 20th August, 1955. 
No. A / P / 53 /4 ( 8)—Applications stating age on 1-9-55 , permanent and present address 
and nationality are invited for appointment as Assistant Engineers in the scale 
of Rs . 200-15-276 - EB - 20-376-25-400 /- with dearness allowance @ 17 % in the Mani 
pur Public Works Department from persons who are ( 1) Graduates in Eugineering 
with some practical experience or ( ii) Diploma holders in Civil Engineering with 
at least 7 years practical experience in some responsible capacity in Civil Engineering 
works 80 as to reach the undersigned on or before the 6th September , 1966. Other 
things being equal, preference will be given to persons who know one or more of 
the looal languages and are familiar with local conditions. 


T. Kipgon , 
Sooretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


6 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 94, 1985 . 


NOTIF I CA TION. 

Imphal, the 19th August, 1955 . 
No. H.Apptt . 46/55 . -It is hereby notified for general information of the public 
that the following 6 posts are fallen vacant in the Rajya Sabha Secretariat. In 
tending candidatos may apply to the Under Secretary , 

Under Secretary , Rajya Sabha Secretariat, 
Parliament House, New Delhi to reach their applications to him on the 31st August , 
1955 at the latest : 


Scule of pay , 


81. Namo of posts 
No. 


Experience . 


Number of 
vacancies . 


Qualifications. 


1 . 


Assistant 
Editor. 


1 


Rs. 256-10-300 Honours Graduate At least 3 years 
EB - 15-450 . Plus or M. A. prefera- editing experience 
usual allowances bly in English in a State Govt . 
admissible to the Literature or Poli- or State Legisla 
Central Govt. tical Science. tura or in a News 
Servants of the Knowledge of Par- paper or Journal 
corresponding liamentary proce 

of repute , with 
rank located in dure or Constitu- practical know 
Delbi. 

tional Law and lodge of printing . 
knowledge 
Hindi will be addi 
tional qualifica 
tions. 


of. 


2 . 


Translator. 


3 


Rs. 160-10-330 . Graduate ; prosi Previous expe 
Plus usurl allo- ciency in English i rience in transla 
wances admissible and Hindi, ability tion work essen 
to the Central to translate Hindi | tiul. 
Govt. Servants of speeches in to 
the corresponding English and vice 
rank located in versa . 
Delhi. 


3. Hindi- Cum 

English Steno 
typist . 


1 


Rs. 55-3-85 -EB - 4- Matric or equiva 
125-5-130 . Plus lent examination . 
Rs. 20 p.m. special 
pay . Plus usual 
allowances admis 
sible to the Cen 
tral Govt . Servants 
lof the Correspon 
diag rank located 
in Delhi, 


Good speed in 
shorthand 

and 
typewriting in 
Hindi as well as 
English . 


T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt, of Manipur . 


Sample Printed pagbalik bu 


Superintendent, Government Prom . O. 800724-6-65. 


Manipur 


Gazette 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 27 


Imphal, Wednesday , August 31 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


1 to 2 


Part 1. - Appointments , Postings, Transfers , Powers , 

Leave and other personal notioos , 
Part 11. - Resolutions, Regulations , Orders , Notifi 

cations , Rules etc. 


Part III. - Orders, Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of lodia , 
Part IV .--Advertisements and Notices etc. 


Nil 
6 to 7 


2 to 6 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


post of 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 25th August , 1965 . 
No. D /HP /83 / 54 . –The ( hief Commissioner is pleased to promote Shri Haokholet , 
Sub - Inspector of Police to the 

A temporary Inspector of Pulice created 
under this Administration orders No. HP /83/14 dt . 23-3-5ñ and D -HP /83/54 dt . 
4.7-55 in the scale of Rs. 175-22-200-15-275 (EB )-20-375 /- and Shri S. Rathing Tangkhul, 
A. S. I. to the post of Sub - Inspector in the scale of Rs. 100.6-160 (EB )-5-200 / 
which has fallen vacant vide Shri Haokholet s promotion as Inspector of Police . 
Tbis order will come into effect from the date of their joining the posts . 

T. Kipgen , 

Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 
Imphal, the 26th August , 1955 . 
The following order is published for general information . 

T. Kalachand Singh , 

Asstt . Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur , 

Imphal, the 10th August , 1955 . 
No. R /22 /55. - The Chief Commissioner has been pleased to order the following 
postings and transfers 

1. On relief from his present duties Shri Manisana Singh , Supdt., Civil Supplies 

will join as S.D. (;., Imphal West relieving Shri Yangmaso . 
2. On relief from the post of S.D.C., Imphal West by Shri Manisana Singh , 
Shri Yanginuso will take over charge of Tamooglon Sub -division from Shri 

He will however continue to act as a tomporary S.D.C. 
3. On relief by Shri Yangmaso , Shri K. Kipgen , S.D.O., Tamenglong is appointed 

to act until further orders as S.D.O., Churachandpur. 
4. On relief from his present post of S.D.O., Churachandpur Shri Birabari 

Singh will take over as E.A.T. II Hd. Qr. Imphal vico Shri Bashiruddin Abmed . 
5. On relief from his prescot post of E. A. C. IL HA . Qr. Imphal Shri Basbirud 

din Ahmed will take over as S. D. O., Ukhrul vice Shri L. Kipgon , 
8. On relief from his present post of 8. D. O., Ukhrul, Shri L. Kipgen is posted 

As 8. D. C. Jiribam . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 31, 1968 . 


7. On relief from his present post of $ . D. C., Jiribam , Shri Nabakumar Single 

will join as 8. D. C. Tengnoupal with headquarters at Moreh in the post of 
S. D. C., Tribals created under Order No F. 18/28/6 3. Estt . C. dated 25.7.88 . 

of Govt . of India , Ministry of Home Affairs . 
8. Shri Gokulchand Singh , S. D. C., Thoubal is posted as 8. D. C. Iinphal East , 
9. On relief by Shri Gokulcband Singh , Shri Halim Chowdhury at present 

S. D. C., Imphal East is posted as S. D. C., Thoubal. 
10. On appointment an S. D. C. Shri Gugamani Singh will join as S. D. C. Mao 

( Sadar & Thoubal Hills post ) against one of the unfilled posts out of 8 . 
sanctioned under Govt. of India s letter No. F. 23 (50 )-8/51 dated 28.2,58 as 

amended by their letter of evou No. dated 19. 8 , 53 . 
11. Shri Modoli , Deputy Inspector of Schools ( Tribal) is posted as Tribal Develop 
ment Officer under the Deputy Commissioner. Imphal against 

the posts. 
crenied under Govt . of India s letter No , F. 13 / 28 / 55 -Estt . C dated 28.7.55 . 


A. K. Ray , 
Chiet Secretary to the Govt of Manipur. 


PART 3 

Imphal, the 23rd August , 1955 . 
No. 10.FD. Order /Pub/ 55. - The following orders and notifications received from 
the Government of India , Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, New Delhi 
are republished for general information . 

Gopendra Sarma, 

Publicity Officer , Manipur . 
ORDER 

Now Delhi- 2, the 20th July , 1955 . 
8. R. O. In porsuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions 
of each of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the order of the Govern . 
ment of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. 5. R. O , 945 . 
dated the 28th April , 1955 , the Central Government with the previous aoproval of the 
Film Advisory Board , Bombay hereby certifies the film specified in column 3 of the 
Schedule hereto annexed , in all their language versions, to be of the description 
specified against each in the corresponding entry of columo 5 of the said Schedule . 

Schodule . 


S. No. 


Title of the 
Film 


Name of 
the Producer 


Source of 
Supply . 


Wbether a scientific film 
or & film intended for edu 
Cational purposes or a film 
dealing with 

and 
current events or a docu 
mentary film . 


news 


1 


2 


os 


4 


1 . 

Indian News Govt. of India , Govt. of India , Film dealing with news 
Review No. 853 Films Division , Films Division , and current events . 
Bombay , 

Bombay . 

( 1 / 16 /66 - F : App /41) 

D. Krishna Ayyar . 
Under Secretary to the Govt . of India ... 

ORDER 
New Delhi- 2 , the 26th July , 1956 . 

In pursuance of clayed ? of the directions issued under the provisions . 
of each of the enactments specified in the First Sobedule the order of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information und Brondonating No 8. R. O. 
046 dated the 28th April , 1966 , the Central Government with the previous approval 


MADHUR . GUZELDE , AUGNBT 81, 11955 . 


of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay · hereby certifies the film specified in column 
2 of the Sohedule hereto annexed , in all i:s language versions, to be of the description 
specified against -it in the corresponding entry of column 6 of the said Schedule . 

Schedule 


8. No. 


Title of the film . 


Name of the 
Producer . 


Source of 
supply . 


Whether a scientifio 
film or a film in ten 
ded for educational 
purposes or 
dealing with news 
and current events 
or & documentary 
film . 


A film 


NS 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


1. Indian News Review 

No. 354, 


Govt. of India 
Filins Division , 

Bombay . 


Govt , of India , Film dealing with 
Bilms Division , DOWS and ourront 
Bombay . eveute , 

(1 /16 / 6E - F : App / 49 ) 

D. Krishna Ayyar , 
Under Secretary to the Govt. of India . 


ORDER 

New Delhi- 2 , the 4th August , 1955. 
S. R. O. In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions 
of each of the 

enactments specified in the First Schedule to the order of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S. R. O. 
946 dated the 28th April, 1955 , the Central Government with the previous approval 
of the Film Advisory Board , Bumbay bereby certifies the film specified in column 
2 of the schedule hereto annexed , in all its language versions, to be of the descrip 
tion specified against it in the corresponding entry of column of the said Sobodule . 

Schedule . 


8. No. 


Title of 
the Film , 


Name of the 

Producer. 


Source of 
Supply . 


Whether a scientific film or a 
film intended for educational 
purposes or a film dealing 
with news and current eventos 
or a documentary fikra . 


1 . 


2 . 


3 . 


. 


6 . 


I. 


Indian News 
Roview No. 
888 . 


Govt , of India , 
Films Division , 
Bombay . 


Govt . of India , Film dealing with news and 
Films Division , current events . 
Bombay . 

( 1/16/76 F : App / 43 ) 


D. Krishna Ayyar , 
Under Secretary to the Govt. of Indian 


NOTIFICATTON 


New Delbi- 2 , the 8th August, 1965 . 
8. R. O. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 5 of 
the Cinematograph Aot, 1952 (XXXVII of 1982), the Central Governmost horoby 
directs that the film entitled " The Crimson Ghost ” and its trailer produced by the 
Republic Pictures Corporation , U. S. A .. shall be deemed to be uncertified films in 
the whole of India . 

(No. 8 /16 /85 - FC.) 

D. Krisho . Ayyr , 
Under Secretary to the Govt. of India . 


4 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 31 , 1966 . 


Imphal, the 23rd August , 1986 . 
No. H. Apptt . 47 /55.- The following Notification No. 12 - Exam (18 ) /85 dt. 14-7-85 
received from the Registrar, the Institute Chartered Accountants of Iodia , Now 
Delhi- 1 , is published for general information : 

T. Kipgen 

Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 
In pursuance of Regulation 23 of the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 1949 , 
the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India is pleased to direct 
that the Preliminary Examination under the said Regulations shall be held on the 
17th , 18th , 19th , 2ist and 22nd November 1953 , the First Examination on the 
17th , 18th , 19th , 21st, 22nd , 23rd and 2.4th November , 1965 and the Final Ex 
mination on the 17th 18th , 19th , 21st, 22nd , 23rd 

22nd , 23rd and 24th Nov. 1956. The 
examinations will be held at each of the following centres provided that a sufficient 
aumber of candidates present themselves for examination : 

(a ) ALLAHABAD , (b ) BOMBAY , ( c ) CALCUTTA , (d ) DELHI, (e ) HYDERABAD 
(Dn ) and (f ) MADRAS. 

Applications for admission to these examinations are required to be made on the 
prescribed forms, copies of which may be obtained from the Secretary to the Counoil 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India , New Delhi. Each such appli 
cation together with the necessary certificates and & Domand Draft payable at New 
Delhi and drawn in favour of the said Secretary for an examination fee of Rs . 25 / 
in the case of the Preliminary Examination , Rs . 50 /- in the of the First 
Examination and Rs . 75 /- for admission to both the Groups or Rs. 50 /- for admis 
sion to one group only of the Final Examination , must be sent so as to reach the 
Secretary to the Council not later than the 19th September 1965 . An additional 
fee of Rs. 50 / - is payable by candidates who apply for the first time for admission 
to the Final Examination and who have been exempted froin passing the First 
Examination , 


case 


Imphal, the 25th August , 1955 . 
No. H.Apptt. 25/55 . —The following Notification No. AAP . 73 /55 - PF / 24 dated 
the 1st August , 1955 received from the Government of Asgam is published for 
general information , 

T. Kipgen , 

Secretary to the Govt. of. Manipur . 
The Governor of Assain is pleased to direct the publication of the results of 
the Half Yearly Departmental Examination of the Indian Administrative Service 
and other officers held from the 25th April to the 28th April , 1955 both days 
inclusive : 


XXX 


XXX 


XXX 


XXX 


Xxx 


XXX 


1 . 


2 . 
3 . 


Officers of Manipur State 
Shri Tb . Birahari Singh , E. A. C. Law Part . IC by the lower standard . 
Shri O. Kathipri, E. A. C. 

Law part II by the lower standard . 
Shri Basiruddin Ahmed , E. A. C. Law part II by the lower standard . 
Shri R. K. Bireudra Singh , S. D. C. Law part I by lower standard and 

Hindustani. 
Shri M. Nuba Kumar Singh , S. D. C. Hindustani. 


4 . 


5 . 


XXX 


XXX 


XXX 


XXX 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 31, 1955 . 


5 


Imphal, the 24th August , 1955 . 
DRAFT AMENDMENT TO THE RULES FRAMED UNDER THE 

CO -OPERATIVE SOCIETIES ACT II OF 1912 . 
1. Renumber the present Rule 7 as 7 ( a ) and add the following as ( b ). 
Power of Registrar to ib ) ( 1) If it appears to the Registrar that an audendment of 
direct ardendment of 

the by - laws of t registsred society is necessary or 
the by - laws of a regi. 

drsiruhlo in the interest of such society , he inay , by 
gistered society . 

order in writing to be issued to the society , require 
the society to muke the amendment within such 

time as he may specify in such order 
( 2 ) If any society fails to make any such amendment 

within the time specified , the Registrar may , after 
giving the society an opportunity of being board 
register such amendment, and issue to the society 
a copy of the amendment , certified by him , which 
shall be conclusivo evidence that the amendment 
has been duly registered , and such amendment 

shall be binding on the members of such society . 
( 3 ) An Appeal shall lie to the Government from 

any order of the Registrar passed under sub - section 
( 21 within two months from the date of the issue 
of such order. The order of the Government on 
appeal and subject to the result of such appeal, if 

any , the decision of the Registrar shall be final. 
2. Substitute the following as Rulo 19 for Rule 19 of the present Rules . 
Dividend - limit of . 

( 1 ) (a ) In no society shall the dividend on the paid -up 

share capital exceed 9 per cent per annum , without 

the sanction of the Registrar . 
( b ) In any society with shares and unlimited liabi 

lity , the balance of the net profit in any year 
after crediting the reserve fund with the amount 
prescribed in rule 23 ( 3 ) may be divided among 
the share -bolders as dividend on their shares sub 
ject to a maximum of 9 per cant per annum on 

the amout paid up on gach shore . 
( c) No dividend shall be distributed by any society 

without the previous sanction of the Registrar 
or any person authorized by him if any claim due 
from the society to a depositor or financer roma 
ins unsatisfiec! and no society shall declaro or pay 
dividend in excess of 6 per cent when the total 
unrealized interest due from the members repre 

sents double the intereste due for the year . 
( d ) The Registrar or any pursun authorised by him 

may by general or special order direct that 
society shall not pay 

a dividend or shall pay 
dividends at it reduced rate so long as it receives 

loans or deposits from non -members . 
( e ) provided that in no cwe shall a dividend be paid 

in excess of what is recommended by the Mana 

ging Committee . 

( 2 ) No remuneration share , 
Remuneration to 

of profit shall be 
Directors - Jimit of . 

Payable to the directors by any society in ros 
pect of their services other than such re -iinberse 
ment or actual cut of pocket expanses as incurred 
by thew in coonection with their work for the 
Biciety as may be decided upon by the general 
meeting 

of the society and approved by the 
Registrar. 

By order , 

K. G. Singh , 
Asstt . Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


OI 


1965 . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 91 , 


Imphal, the 30th August, 1958 . 
No. I-MD / 126 /54 . -The following Notifications are published for general infor 
mation . 

K. ( 7. Singh , 

Asstt. Secretary (Home) to the Govt. of Manipur. 
Copy of Notification No. F. 9.4 /55 - D dated the 9th My. 1955 from the Deputy 
Secretary to the Govt. of India , Ministry of Health , New Delhi to all Ministries. 


NOTIFICATION . 
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (3 ) of scetion 1 of the Pre . 
vention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954 (37 of 1954 ), the contral Government hereby 
appoints the 1st day of June, 1955 as the date on which the said Act shall come 
into force . 


Copy of Notification No. F. 9-3/ 55-1 dated the 1st June , 195.5 from the Deputy 
Secretary to the Govt. of India , Minis ry of Incaltli , New Delhi to 

New Delhi to the Director 
General of Ilealth Services and All Part C Siato ( urts . 

NOTIFICATION . 
In pursuance of clause ( 1) of Article 239 of the Constitution , the President 
hereby directs that the Lieutenant Guvernors of Himachal Pradesh and Vindhya 
Pradesh and the Chief Commissionors of all other Part 0 States shall , subject to 
the control of the President and until further orders , exercise the powers and dis . 
charge the functions of the State Government under the Prevention of Food Adul 
teration Act 1954 ( 37 of 1954 ) within their respective States. 


PART IV 


Imphal, the 29th August , 1955 . 
Proceedings of a meeting of the Manipur State Transport Authority held on 
8-8-55 with Sri V. S. Sundaram , Deputy Commissioner , Manipar, in the chair. 
Present : 1 . Sri V. S. Sundaram , D. C., Manipur . 

2 . 

T. Kipgen , Secy . (Home) 
3 . Y. Tombi Singh , Executive Engineer ( Irrigation ) Manipur. 
4 . L. Gopal Singh , Dy . S. P. Manipur . 

5 . S. Somorendra Singh , Moirangkhom . 
The fullowing resolutions are passed : 
1 . The Manipur Drivers Union , who are the only applicants for a permit to ply 

à passenger cum goods motor vehicular service between Churachandpur and 
Thingat are given the monopoly to do so for one year w . e. f. 1.9.55 subject 
to such conditions as may be imposed from time to time by the Manipur 
State Transport Authority regarding periodicity of service , rates of freight 
and fares and pay - load etc. 
The question of fixation of the number of Stage carriages and Public Car 
riers which may be required exclusively for each and every partioular route 
in the State as well as for the Dimapur-Manipur Road and determining road 
permit foes separately for these routes is considered to be of mioh impor 
tance requiring deeper consideration and hence should be taken up in the 
next meeting of the S. T. Authority . In the meantime, the Secretary will 
please collect all relevant data and circulate the same with his suggestions 
to all the members . 


2 . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , AUGUST 31, 1955 . 


2 


3 . 


The question of allowing the small Ton Vehicles plying along the Imphal 
Ukhrul Road with both passengers and goods in the same vehicle is defer 
rod for consideration in the next meeting of 8. T. Authority in as much 
as such a permit which is essential to cater to the needs of the people , 
does not seem to fit in with the M. V. Rules . 


Goods vehicles may be allowed to carry upto 6 (six ) bonafide labourers each 
for the purpose of loading and unloading . 


5 . 


The Stage Carriage Permits for upto 30-6-56 in respect of the following 11 
(eleven ) Motor Vehicles, which were issued before 7-3-55 (i. e . prior to the 
intimation to the S. T. Authority of Government s policy to stop issue of 
such permits ) by the Secy ., State Transport Authority subject to confirmation 
by the S. T. A. are confirmed . 


Owner s name. 


Number of Vehicles . 


. 


5 . 


91 


1. Sri Thokchom Pisak Singh of Keisampat . 

MNS - 2311 . 
2 . Laisram Biro Single of Sogalambi. 

MNS -0313 . 
3 . Sardar Bhaktawar Singh , Jaswell Bazar . 

MNS - 2320 . 
4 . R , K. Bhubanosbor Singh of Uripok . 

MNS - 1875 . 
Ch . Thanın Singh of Kwakeithel. 

MNS- 706 
6 . H. Ibomcha Singh of Segalambi. 

MNS.2303. 
7 . H. Ibomcha Singh of Segalambi. 

MNS- 2304 . 
8 . S. Gouramani Singh of Yairipok . 

MNS- 725 . 
9 . Sardar Bhaktawar Singh , Maxwell Bazar. MNS - 372. 
10 . Manipur State Transport. 

MNS - 2312 . 
11 . Yarnao Tangkhul of Ukhrul. 

MNS - 2309 . 
6. The number of passenger - carrying vehicles plying along the Imphal -Kakching 

Road is considered sufficient . So the application of Sri Khumukcham Sekhore 
Singh of Kakobing for a Stage Carriage Permit for this route cannot be 
entertained . 

V. S. Sundaram , 
Deputy Commissioner , Manipur , 
Chairman , State Transport Authority , 

Manipur . 


la phal, the 29th August , 1956 . 
No. 3 / F /55-66 . - It in hereby notified for general information that pursuant to Section 
69 of the Indian Partnership Act IX of 1932 M / 8 . Ramchandra Singh & Brothers 
has been incorporated that it is a Partnership Firm and number as 3 of 1955-56 , 
dated the 29th August of the year one thousand nine hundred and fifty five Anno 
Domini, 

U. M. Sinha , 
Registrar , Firm , Manipur . . 


Impbal :-Printed and published by the Saperintendent, Government Press . C. 800 /31-8-56 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


BERT 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 28 


Imphal, Wednesday, September 7 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


1 


Part I. - Appointments, Postings , Transfors, Powers , 

Leave and other personal notioen , 
Part II. - Rosolutions , Regulations , Orders, Notifi 

cations, Rules etc. 


Part III - Orders , Notifications, Rulos of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV .-- Advertisements and Notices oto . 


Nil 
3 to 7 


2 to 3 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chiof Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 1st September , 1955 . 
No. N.FA / 2 /54 . --The Chief Commissionor is pleased to grant Shri A. K. Bhatta 
.cbarji , Inspector of Police, Manipur leave on average pay for 18 days from 31-1-55 
to 12-2-55 under Fundamental Rule 81. 


Imphal, the lst September, 1955 . 
No. N.FA / 2 /54 , --The Chief Commissioner is pleased to gra at Shri Puroalal Das , 
Finance Officer , Claims earned leave for 12 days from 

leave for 12 days from 29-4-65 to 10-5-85 under 
the Revised Leave Rules 1933 as liberalised from 1-2-1949 . 


Imphal, the 26th August , 1955 . 
No. C.E /97 /51 Pt. The Chief Commissioner has been pleased to extend the 
term of the appointment of Shri S. D. Chowdhury, B.A., A.I.C., B.T., B.E.T. (Cam 
bridge), Visharad as Head Master, Mao -Maram High School under this Secretariat 
Notification No. E /97/51 ( l t ) , dated the 21st July , 1954 for a period of three 
months with effect from 13th July , 1955 . 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


Imphal, the 3rd September, 1956 . 
No. R /22 /55 /44. - In partial modification of the orders of postings and transfers 
issued under this Secretariat Order No. R / 22 / 55 dated 10th August, 1955 , the Chief 
Commissioner has been pleased to decide that Shri Bashiruddin Ahmod will continue 
in his present post of E. A. C. II , Headquarters Imphal, till further orders . On 
relief by Shri K. Kipgen , Shri Birabari Singh , S. D. O., Churachandpur will proceed 
to Ukhrul and take over as S. D. O., Ukbrul from Shri L. Kipgen . 


A. K. Ray , 
Cbief Seoretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 7 , 1986 . 


PART 6 


2 


Imphal, the 26th August , 1955 . 
No. G - TW / 10 /55.— In partial modification of this Administration Order No. TW / 10 /15 
dated 13th August , 1956 the Chief Commissioner has been pleased to ix the initial 
pay of Shri N. Modoli , temporary Tribal Development Officer at Rs. 250 /- (Rupees 
two huodred fifty ) per month plus usual Dearness Allowance which is the minimum 
in the scale of Rs . 250-250-300 -con - 25-400 - EB - 26-609- EB - 25-650 /- sanctioned by the 
Governmont of India , Ministry of Home Affairs for this post in their letter No. 
F. 13 / 28 / 55 -Estt. C dated 26th July , 1955 . 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


Imphal, the 29th August , 1955 . 
No. J/ 17 ;55 . -The following notification issued by the Central Government under 
Section 12 of the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 is publishod for general infor 
mation : 

No. 16 / 1 / 55 - Judicial (I ) 

Government of India 
Ministry of Hom . Affairs. 

NOTIFICATION . 

New Delhi- 2 , the 26th July , 1956 . 
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Commissions of Inquiry 
Act , 1952 (LX of 1952) , the Central Government hereby makes the following rules 
for the issue and service of summons by a Commission of Inquiry appointed by 
that Government, namely : 

Rules. 
1. The Commission may issue summons to persons whose attendance is 

required either to give evidence or to produce documents. 
Every summons issued by the Commission shall be in duplicate and 
signed by the Chairman or such person as he empowers in this behalf 
and sealed with the seal of the Commission ; and it shall specify the 
time and place at which the person summoned is required to attend 
and also whether his attendance is required for the purpose of giving 

evidence or to produce a document, or for both purposes. 
3 . A person may be summoned to produce a document, without being 

summoned to give evidence ; aud any person summoped merely to produce 
a docun : ent shall be deemed to have complied with the summons if 
he causes such document to be produced instead of attending personally 
to produce the same. 
A summons to produce documents may be for the produotion of certain 
specified documents or for the production of all documents of a certain 

description in the possession or power of the person summoned . 
6. Every summons shall be served by sending it by post to the person 

for whom it is intended or in such other manner as the Commission 


2 . 


may direct. 


6. The provisions of the foregoing rules shall apply , as far as may be, to 

Ovary other process issuod by the Commission . 


A. K. Bay , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur , 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 7 , 1958 . 


Imphal, the 37th July , 1958 . 
No. G -DPC / 17 /55.- Whereas it appears to the Chief Commissioner that improved 
arrangements are required within the area specified in the Soheduled hereunder, for 
all matters as specified in Section 52 of the Assam Municipal Act 1923 ( 1 of 1923 ) 
8 extended to this State , which area it is not expedient to 

to constitute into 
Municipality ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred upon him by sub -section 
( 1 , of Section 828 of the said Act, the Chief Commissioner desires to declare the 
gaid area as a notified aroa ; 

Should any inhabitant of the said area desire to objeot to this notifioation , he 
may within six weeks from the date of publication of this notification in the State 
Gazette submit his objection in writing to the Chief Commissioner through the 
Deputy Commissioner for consideration . 

T. Kipgon , 
Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


same 


Schedule 
(i ) Commencing from the Indo - Burma and Thoubal Mayang - Imphal Road 

crossing point , the boundary line runs towards the West along the boundary 
line of Dag No. 14 till it touches the northern boundary of the land covered 
by Dag No. 13 whence the line runs in straight and joins the point of 
north western corner of Dag No. 7. Then the 

line runs right 
up, following the hundary line of Dag . No. 7 in circumference , the 
line then meets the north oastern corner of the Dag referred to from 

where it originated , 
(ii) Commencing froin the crossing point where the Indo - Burma Road and 
Thoubal River meet with each 

with each other , the line rugs on the southern 
embankment of the same river till it reaches the north west corner 
of Dag No. 1347. Then it follows the north eastern boundary of the 
same Dag in the straight line till it meets the old Yairipok Road under 
Dag No. 1031 and then it runs southward along the eastern boundary 
of Dag No. 1033,1034,1036 and i037 , then it goes along the north 
eastern boundary of Dags 1038 and 

and 1041 and southern boundary of 
Dag No. 1041 till it meets Burma Road . Thence it follows the eastern 
boundary of Burma Road and meets the crossing point where it started . 


PART IV 


নােটিশ নং ১৭ । 

ইক্ষাল , তাং ২২/৫৫ ইং । 
অসিনা শরম ওইদুনা প্রজা পুমা খঙহঞ্জরী । মরমদি শীখােঙ গুমখােঙ অসি তাং ১/১০/৫৫ ইং দগী তাং ৩১/৩৫৭ ইং 
ফাওবা খুম শুৎবীন ফোনেই অফিস তাং ১০/৯/৫৫ ইংগ নুংথিল পুং অমা ভাবদা লিলাম তৌধুনা মােনগনি । ওকপিলে 
হায় মীনা মতমচানা লাক্তনা ওকপীর গনি । দিলামা শীৎপা শেলনা চহি অমী মল ওইগনি । অনিল 

অশিৎপা শেলগ মথা শেল টের পা অ ৈ 
খেলনা সুপা ৫০০ ( চামঙ ) দগ হেৰদি কিন্তি লৌজনােই । 
২। ২ সৌগনি । লিলাম সুমিত্তা শেল শুনা থিবিগবনি । শেয়াদি অমুক হয় নিলাম তেনা রেনিগনি । হরি 
লিলাদা বাদশ শেল আবদি হান্না ওকপনা কুপাংকৰনি । 
যােগ পাঠাদা লােনগদ অরুন্ন মনােল পুৱমক অফিস মমচানা মানা হয়ৰিয় মাগনি । ইতি 

R. K. B. c . singh , 
Forost Officer , Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 7 , 1955 . 


NOTICE. 


Imphal, the 30th August, 1955 . 
Applications in candidates own band -writing are invited for some temporary posts of 
enumerators and copyists in the scale of Rs. 28-1-40 / - plus D.A. aduissible under the rule . 
The term of the appointment will be 3 months from the date the posts are filled . 

Applications statiog age, full address, educational qualification and previous experience 
if any , will be received in the Office of the Chief Electoral Offiçer, Manipur ( Seoretariat 
building ) up to the 10th September , 1956 . 

V. S. Sundaram , 
Chief Electoral Officer , Manipur. 


NOTICE No. 10 
( 1956 - Revision of Electoral Rolls ). 

Imphal, the 30th August , 1956 . 
Electoral rolls of Inner Manipur and Outer Manipur Parliamentary Constituencies in 
Manipur. 

A draft list of eleotors included in this part of the above named roll is herewith 
published for general information . All claims to he included in this roll shall be made in 
Form VI/VII and all objections to any name entered thereia in Form VIII not later than 
20th September , 1955 . 

The revising authority to whom such claims and objections are to be prepared is Sub . 
Deputy ( ollectors in the Valley and S.D.O.s in the hills . 

Claims and objections shall be addressed to the Revisiag authority and shell either be 
presented to the Revising authority specified in this notics or to the Electoral Registration 
Officer , or be sent by post to the Revising authority specified in this notice so as to reach 
him not later than the 20th September , 1955 . 

Place . - Elootion Office , Manipur. 
Date :-20-9-1956 . 

G. H. Singh , 
Electoral Registration Officer, Manipur . 


: 


:: 


6 


Imphal, the 30th August , 1955 . 
TOUR PROGRAMME OF MOBILE DISPENSARY EASTERN HILL 

RINGE FOR THE MONTH OF SEPTEMBER , 1955 . 
12-9.55 . Imphal to Maramkhuonou 

52 Miles 
13-9-55 . Maramkhunnou to Taphou Naga 

5 
14-9-55 . Taphou Naga to Taphou Kuki 

5 
16-9-55 . Taphou Kuki to Hengbung 
16-9-55 . Hongbung to Muyangkhong 

5 
17-9-55 . Mayangkhong to Tumujou -khulen 
18-9-55 . 

Halt 
19-9-56 , Tumujou Khulen to Khunnou 
20-9-55 . Khuonou to Makhan ( Kaoglatongbi) 

21 
21-9-55 . Makhan to Khun - khu Kuki 

6 
22-9-55 . Khunkhu Kuki to Karakhun Kuki 

5 
23-9-55 . 

Ilalt 
24-9-55 . Karakbuy to Leilun Vaiphei 
25-4.55 

Halt 
26-9-56 . Leilon Vaiphei to Imphal 

16 


** 


8 


N. B. Roy , 
Offg . Chief Medical Officer, Manipar . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 7 , 1958 . 


5 


Sl. No. 


1 , 
2 . 
3 . 
4 . 
5 . 
6 . 


Imphal, the 31st Aug , 1986 . 
" PAYMENT PROGRAMME IN RESPECT OF A.R.M. AREA 

COMPENSATION FOR THE SADAR /HILLS . " 
Name of village. 

No. of Claims. Amount. Date of payment . 
Thingsol 

5 215 / 

15-9-65 
Changoubung 

25 

14171 
Phairen 

23 

6320 / 
Laimaton 

32 10540 / 
Thongpangpal 

12 

2600 / 
Karakhun 

2041 
104 


7 


7 . 
8 . 

9 . 
10 . 
11 : 


Jonlep 
Yongba Langkhong 
Laphurak 
Khoirupok 
Luwangsangol 


20 
18 
40 


16-9-55 


56121 

505 / 
1560 / 

498 / 
2700 / 


19 


7 


104 


12 . 
13 . 
14 . 
15 . 


Gangpikon 
Kakhan kabui 
Songjang 
Youyangtek 


18 
22 
15 
48 


6171 
795 / 
4321 
1347 / 


19-9-55 


103 


16 , 
17 . 
18 . 


Nungnang 
Tbingkra Loyam 
Hangoipat 


72 
25 
11 


20-9-58 


1912 / 
1203 / 
800 / 


108 


79 


4 


19 . 
20 . 
21. 
22 . 
23 . 


Charoi Chakol Long 
Molkon 
Haipee 
Kangpockpi Mission 
Makeng Chajiba 


4 


2257 / 
108 / 
202 / 
4981/ 
1021/ 


21-9-55 


24 
13 


129 


22-9-55 


24 . 
25 , 
26 . 
27 . 
28 . 


Chini Inkhol 
Makeng Chairaba 
Mukeng Lokobao 
Molkon Changdon 
Hengjøpg 
Tbayong 


20 
20 
16 
10 
13 
37 

116 
Total 664 


5566 / 
1211/ 

816 / 
2205 / 

413 / 
1076 / 


29 . 


Rs. 70,3571 


PAYMENT PROGRAMME IN RESPECT OF A.R.M , AREA COMPENSATION 

FOR THE BISHENPUR TAHSIL . 


No. of claims 


SI . No. 


Name of village. 
Maibam Lokpaching 


Amount 
63,296 / 


436 


Date of payment . 
7th , 8th , 9th and 
10th Sept. 55. 


1 . 


G. C. Singh , 
6. D. C. ( Claims). 


6 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 7 , 1968 . 


Tender Notice No. 16 . 

Imphal, the 22nd August, 1956 . 
Sealed tenders are invited for supply of the undernoted Office furnitures for 
Forest Department , Manipur. Tenders will be received by the undersigned upto 1 
P. M. of 16th September, 1955 and will be opened on the same day at 3 P. M. in 
the presence of all tenderers. 

The undersigned does not bind himself to accept the lowest or any tender . Full 
particulars may be bad from the Office during Office hours . 
The successful tenderer will have to deposit 20 % of the amount as caution money 

Items of furniture . 
1. Table - 4 x3 x21 . 

2 (two ) 
2. High Class Chair 

2 ( two ) 
3. Ordinary oane seated chair . 

3 (three ) 
4. Charpoy - Ordinary sizo . 

1 (one ) 
5. Baxi- 11 xl x 

2 (two) 
N. B. : - All items will be of Uningthou made . 

R. K. B. C. Singb , 
Forest Officer, Government of Manipur. 


Imphal, the 2nd September , 1955 . 
No. C.HDE / 126 /54 /49 . —The following information is published for general 
information . 

T. Kipgen , 

Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 
Statement showing the names of the Engineering Institution in India ( 80 far 
Information is received from the State Government ) and seats reserved for Sobeduled 
Castes Tribes candidates in each institution . 


Kemark .. 


Name of the 
Institution . 


Total No. of Seuts 
TeneryAd for Sohe . 
duled Omston / Tribos . 


2 


1 . 


Roorkee University , 

Roorkee (U. P.) 


one for 


Ono for Scheduled Tribes 
And 

Backward 
Classes . 
Reserved for Scheduled 
Castes / Tribes . 

do . 


20 % 


20 % 


2. Nilokhoni Polytechnic, 

Nilokheri 
3. India Institute of Technology , 

Kharagpur. 
4 , Delhi Polytechnic , Delhi. 
5. Hewett and the Civil Engineering 

Sohools ,Luchinow , (U. P.) 


do . 


20 % 
30 % 


do . 


Inapbal, the eth . Soptomber , 1968 . 
No. 4 /B /55-56. - It is hereby notified for general information that pursuant to Seotion 
$ b of the Indián Partnership Acť IŠ of 1982 M /8. Amrik Singh & Man Singh has been 

corporate of otraight it it s Partnerit Firm and numbered of 1956756 , dated , the 
8th Seputetiber, of the year one thousand nine hundred and fifty five Anno Domini. 

U. M. Singh , 
Registrar , Firm , Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 7 , 1956 . 


7 


Impbal, the 31st August, 1955 . 
THE MANIPUR STATE HANDLOOM WEAVERS CO - OP . SOCIETY LTD . 

AN OPPORTUNITY 
The Board of Management is pleased to extend the sale of yarn to non -members 
and so the weavers are requested to avail the opportunity and purchase yarn from 
the Sales Emporium of the State Society . 


THE MANIPUR STATE HANDLOOM WEAVERS CO -OP. SOCIETY LTD . 

INDIAN INDUSTRIES FAIR , DELHI. 
The all India Handloom Board is pleased to allot one stall to this State Society 
at the Indian Industries Fair , Delhi to be held from 29-10-55 for a period of six 
weeks, for display of best varieties of håndloom cloth and also for sale . In view 
of the fact that this Fair is likely to be visited by a large number of people from 
all over the world , it will be very much appreciated if weavers supply the best 
and special varieties of cloth produced by them to the State Handloom Weavers 
Co - op . Society for display and sale of the Fair . 

K. Lakshminarayan Singh , 

Business Manager. 


Imphal, the 7th September , 1955 : 
No. 6/ JS /II/55-56 . —It is hereby notified for general information that pursuant 
to Section 20 of the Societies Registration Act XXI of 1860 , an Association under 
the name and style of the Gorkha Association has been incorporated and numbered 
as 8 of 1955-56 , dated the seventh September of the year one thousand nine 
hundred and fifty five Anno Domini. 

U. M. Sinha , 

Registrar, 
Joint Stock Companies , Manipur . 


Imphal :-Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govornment Prous. C. 800 / 7-7-55. 


Manipur 


Gazette 


सत्यमेव 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 29 


Imphal, Wednesday , September 14 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Pago 


1 to 3 


Part I. - Appointments , Postings, Transfers, Powers , 

Leave and other personal notioes, 
Part 11. - Rosolutions , Regulations , Orders, Notifi 

cations, Rules otc . 


Part III . - Orders , Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of ladia , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Noticos eto . 


r 


Nil 
to 9 


3 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 7th September , 1955 . 
No. I-MD /36 /55 .-- In continnation of this Administration Order No. 1-MD / 36 / 55 /83 
dated the 1st July , 1955 the Chief Commissioner is pleased to extend the term 
of the leave granted to Dr. A. C. Kapur, Chief Medical Officer for another 30 days 
from the 30th July , 1955 on half average pay . 

During the absence of Dr. A. C. Kapur on leave the officiating arrangement 
made in this Administration Order No, MD / 36 /65 / 9 dated 25th March 1956 will 
continue . 


MEMORANDUM . 


Imphal, the 9th September, 1955 . 
No. I-CO / 39 /54. - In exercise of the power conferred by Section 3 of Manipur 
Co -operative Act 1947 the Chief Commissioner is pleased to delegate all the powers 
and functions of the Registrar Co - operative Societies under the said Act to the 
Assistant Registrar, Co -operative Societies, Manipur. 

K. G. Singh , 
Asstt. < ecretary (Home) to the Govt. of Manipur. 


4 


Imphal, the 12th Septembor, 1955 . 
No. F -DPC / 25 /52,79 . - In purslance of the orders contained in the Government 
of India in the late Ministry of States letter No. F.65 ( 1 )-Econ /52 dated the 23rd 
February , 1963, the Chief Commissioner is pleased to delegate with immediate effect 
the powers , detailed in the statement attached to the Development Commissioner , 
Manipur . 

A. K. Ray, 
Chief Sooretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 14 , 1955 . 


Statement showing the powers delegated to the Davelopment Commissioner , Manipur. 


Powers . 


Extent of powers . 


1. To sanction expenditure on works. 


Powers as are enjoyed by a Superintending 
Engineer of P.W.D. within the limits of the 
sanctioned Dutailed Estimates . 


2. To sanction casual leuve . 

Full powers in respect of Government sor 

vants working under him . 
3. To sanction enrued leave including Full powers in respect of all Government 

leave without pay and allowances . servants working under him . 
4. To make appointment to salaried posts . Full powers in respect of posts carrying a 

pay scale , the minimum of which does not 
exceed Rs. 80 / - p.m. subject to the usual 
course of recruitment as prescribed by tbo 

State Government. 
5. To sanction earned increment according Full powers in respect of all Government 

to prescribed rules in respect of salariod servants workiug under bim . 

posts . 
6. To accept resignation of non -gazetted Full powers in respect of Government ser 
Government servants , 

vants holding posts, appointment to which 

is made by him . 
7. Withholding of increments in respect of Full powers in respect of Government ser 
Government servants . 

vants holding posts, appointment to which 

is made by him . 
8. To allow milonge allowanco by a route Full powers only in respect of non - gazetted 

other than the shortest or cheapest Government servants , who are under his 
route . 

control. 
9. To act as Controlling Officer under Sup- Full powers in respect of Government ser 

plementary Rules for travelling allo vanth working under him . 
wance claims. 


/ 


10. To require medical certificate of fitness 

before return from leave . 


11. To sanction write -off of stores . 


Full powers in respect 

respect of Government 
servants working under his control. 
Upto Rs. 20 /- in each case and Rs. 150 /- in a 
your for one single item provided the losses 
are not due to theft , fraud or negligence . 
Full powers within the frame- work of sanc 
tioned estimates. 


12. To determino the number of workers to 

be employed on daily rate of wages on 
works other than constructional. 


18. To fix wages of daily rated workers. 
14. To fix the pioce rate of individual 

workers on works other than 
structional . 


Full powers subject to market conditions . 
Full powers within sanctioned estimates . 


con 


Full powers . 


15 , To discharge or accept resignation of 

workers on daily rates of wages . 
16. To sanction incremont of wages to Upto a maximum of As. -18 / - once every six 
workers . 

months. 
17. To fix piece- rate of work for a group Full powers within sanctioned Detailed 

of workers ( otber than construction Estimates . 

work ) . 
18. To sunction expenditure on mainte- Upin Rs 500 /- for a single item of work 
Dance works . 

within sanction d estimates . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 14 , 1966 . 


Statement showing the powers delegated to the Development Commissioner , Manipur . 


Powers . 

Extent of powers . 
19. To incur expenditure on the purchase Upto Rs. 15,000 /- , for a single item of raw 
of stores . 

material , where the purchases are made 
against sanctioned works . Upto Rs 5,000 / 
for a single item of raw material , where the 
purchases are made for stock pile. Upto 
Rs. 5.000 /- for a single item of capital 
equipment within sanctioned Detailed Esti 

mate . 
20. To sanction contingent expenditure on Upto Rs . 200 / - for a siogle item of non -re 

itoms not specifically mentioned else curring onture and Rs. 50/ - per month for 
where . 

a single item of recurring nature . 
21. To sanction expenditure on advertise- Upto Rs. 500/- in a financial year. 

ment charges . 
22. To sanction expenditure on demurrage Upto Re. 100 % for a single case subject 
oharges . 

to the condition that the doinurrage oharges 
are not due to the negligence of any 

Government servant . 
23. To sanction expenditure on local pur- Upto Rs. 10 /- per month in each case 
chase of stationery . 

subject to a limit of Rs. 200 / - in any 

financial year . 
24. To sanction expenditure on purchase | Upto Rs. 150/- per annura. 

of non - official publications. 
25. To sanctiun expenditure on liveries , Full powers subject to the general orders 
clothing and other articles . 

of the Government issued on the subject 

from time to time. 
26. To sanction expenditure on repairs to Upto Rs. 500 / - per vehicle per annum . 

motor vebicles . 
27. To sanctinn expenditure on purchase 

Upto Rs. 200 /- at a time. 
of Miscellaneous stores for office use , 

such as tumblers , water post, etc. 
25. To sunction expenditure on upkeep 

At the rate of Rs. 2 / - per mensem per 
of type -writers, calculating machines, 

machine , 
etc. 
29. To sanction expenditure on repairs to 

Full powers within sanctioner Detailed 
erection and removal of machinery 

Estimate . 
equipment and repairs to 

furniture | 
and fixtures , 
30. To sanction expenditure on the pur Upto Rx. 300 - within sanctioned Detailed 

chase of furniture and fixture . The Estimato . 
Jimit sha !l apply to the cost of fur 

nishing one office . 
31. To prescribe a Government servant Full powers in case of non - gazetted Govern 

ment servants . 
headquarters. 


PARTU 


Imphal, the 10th September , 1955 . 
No. R / 22 /55 /55. — The Chief Commissioner is pleased to cancel the orders issued 
under this Secretariat No. R / 22/ 56 / 44 dated the 3rd September , 19955 and authorise 
the consequent restoration of the orders contained at paras 4 and 5 of the orders 
issued under this Secretariat No. R / 22 / 55 dated 10th August , 1955 . 

A. K. Ruy , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 14 , 1955 . 


:: 


PART IV 

Imphal, the 7th September , 1955. 
No. V.7 - Press/ Pub /55. — The following programme for payment of A.R.M. areas 
compensation in respect of Churachandpur Sub Division is published for general 
information . 

Gopendra Sarma , 

Publicity Officer, Manipur. 
PAYMENT PROGRAMME OF A.R.M. AREAS COMPENSATION IN RESPECT 

OF CHURACHANDPUR SUB - DIVISION , 
Date . Name of Village . 

Total amount of money . 
14.9.55 ( 1 ) Mongken 

Rs . 302 ; 
( 2 ) Ingourok 

3920 / 
( 3 ) Khaukual 

897;. 
( 4 ) Hiangtam Lamka 

5320 / 
( 5 ) Songkong 

» 1162 ; 
15.9.55 ( 1 ) Laimanai Kabui 

Rs . 3648 ; 
( 2 ) Molngat 

8400 , 
( 3 ) Buksao 

458 / 
( 4 ) Tuikham 

500 / 
( 5 ) Ningthiching 

800 / 
16.9 55 ( 1) Khaosabung 

Rs. 1069 / 
( 2 ) Gothol 

1808 , 
( 3 ) Dampi 

407 / 
( 4 ) Laimanai Kuki 

7016 - 
(6 ) Nabil 

5730 / 
17.9.55 (1 ) Torbung 

Rs. 55 18 / 
( 2 ) Soitud 

9242 / 
( 3 ) Hita 

490 / 
( 6 ) Songkot 

205 / 
( 5 ) Seken 

600 / 
19.9.55 

( 1 ) Sakang 

Rs. 3335 / 
( 2 ) Saidan 

651 / 
( 33 ) Silon 

3080 , 
( ) Kungpinassen 

7000 / 
( 5 ) Saiton khao 

4490 / 
20.9.55 ( 1 ) Salva 

Rs. 300 / 
( 2 ) khengjang 

804 / 
( 3 ) Silna 

300 / 
( 4 ) Tuilam 

1386 / 
21.2.55 ( 1 ) Molsang 

Rs. 800 / 
( 2 ) Ukha 

1991 / 
( 3 ) Phaibong 
( 4 ) Tolphei 

11121 
( 5 ) Khoirentak 

3056 
22.9.56 ( 1 ) Saikot 

Rs. 1988 / 
( 2 ) Pangsang 

818 / 
( 3 ) Kotlian 

1900 / 
(4 ) Lungohin 

1826 / 
(6 ) Gothang 

710 / 
Total Ro. 94,166 / 


os 


: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 


; 
: 


2117 


. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 14 , 1968 . 


TENDER NOTICE . 


Imphal, the 7th September , 1955 . 
Sealed tenders are invited from Registered Contractors upto 2 p.m. on 20-9-55 , 
and shall be opened on the same day at 4 p . m . for the following work . 


Particulars . 

Approximate cost . Earnest movey . Time for completion . 
Reconstruction of Irilbung 1,40,500 / 

3,600 / 

6 months. 
Bridge at 5th mile of Imphal 
Yairipok Road . 

Detailed plads and specifications can be shen in the office of the undersigned on 
any working day. Tender Forms can be hud from the office of the undersigned on 
payment of Re. 1 /- each . 

E. Krishnan , 

Executive Engineer , 
Highways Division , P. W. D., Manipur. 


Imphal, the 9th September , 1955 . 
No. Furniture /55 / 111. - Sealed tenders are invited for the supply of the following 
items of furniture for the Manipur Secretariat . Tenders will be received by the 
undersigned upto 1 p . m . of 26th Sept. 35 and will be opened on the same day 
at 3 p . m . in the prosence of all tenderers . Samples of furniture to be supplied 
may be aren with the permission of the Assistant Secretary ( Finance ) in the Secretariat 
during office hours. The successful tenderer would be required to furnish a security 
depusit of ile 100 :- ( Rupes one hundred ) either in the form of Treasury Clalans 
or National Sıvings Cortificate . The successful tenderer sbould supply the furniture 
to the Sueretariat Store within 15 d :lys from the date of acceptance of the tender. 
Supplies aro liallo to rejection if not found suitable . The decision of the Chief 
Secretary to the Government of Manipur in this matter will be final. The under 

under no obligation to accept the lowest or any tonder . The number 
indicated against each article of furniture is approximate and may be varied at the 
discretion of the undersigned . 

( 1) Two officers tables- 5 - 1"83 - 5 " x2 - 6 " with two drawers and top covered with 


signed is 


green flannel . 


( 2 ) Two high class officer chairs — canc seated and cane backed . 
( 3 ) Twelve ordinary table3 size 4 X3 x24 oach with two drawers. 
( 4 ) Eighteen H bucked cane seated chairs . 
(5 ) Two almirabs b x3 x18 " plain top . 
(6 ) T wo small open book racks 4 34 s13 " with three shelves . 
( 7 ) Five stools (round ) 18 "x18 "xl . 

N. B. All itews should be made of well seasoned Uningthou wood . 


T. Kalachand Singh , 
Asstt . Secretary (Finance) to the Govt . of Manipur . 


Imphill, the 12th September, 1955 . 
No. 5 / F / 55 56. - It is liereby notified for general information that pursuant to Section 
69 of the Indian Partnership Act IX of 1932 M / S . Ratan Brass Factory bas been 
incorporated that it is a Partnership Firm and numberei a 5 : 1955-56 , dated the 
9th September of the year one thousand niue hundred and fifty five Anno Domini. 


U. M , Sinha , 
Registrar, Firm , Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 14 , 1955 . 


Imphal , the 10 /i2th September, 1956 . 
No. V.5 -Notice / Pub /55. - The following payment programme of the A. R. M. 
area compensation for Tengnoupal Cirole is published for general information . 

Gopendra Sarma , 

Publicity Officer , Manipur . 
PAYMENT PROGRAMME OF A.R.M. AREA COMPENSATION FOR 

TENGNOUPAL CIRCLE . 
Sr. No. Name of Village . 

Date of Payment. 
1 . Selkoi 

27-9.55 . 
2 . 

Yonpi 
3 . 

Yungdung 
4 . 

Paerin Lulao 
6 . 

Lauyang 
6 : 

Chahmol 
7 . Salem 

28-9-55 . 
8 . 

Chaudonpokpi 
9 . 

Larung 
10 . 

Lambung 
11 . 

Tidam 
12 . 

Wayang 
13 . 

Kangoi 
14 . Phamchang 

29-9-5-5 . 
15 . 

Chalong 
16 . 

Phiran Khullen 
17 . 

Aimon 
18 . Phunan Saban 

30-9-53. 
19 . 

Shony Lur 
20 . 

Dalaihung 

Kharou 
22 . 

Sita 
23 . Gomi 

1-10-55 . 
24 . 

Gophan 
25 , 

Samukon 
26 . 

Bungmol 
27 . 

Maohlang 


21 . 


NOTICE. 

Imphal, the 10th September , 1965 . 
Applications stating age , qualifications & number of wives living , if married , 
are invited for the temporary post of one office peon for the D. M. College upto 
February , 1956 in the scale of 22-1-28 plus usual D. A , so as to reach the under 
signed by the 28th September , 1955 . 

Qualifications essential : ~ Must have read upto Class IV . 

Age :-- Below 25 years. 
Other things being equal preference will be given to persons knowing one or 
more of the looal languages. 

N. B. Sinha, 
Orig . Principal, D. M. Cottage, 

Imphal. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 14 , 1956 . 


7 


Imphal, the 6th September, 1956 . 
No. v.1. Prost/ Pub /55 .-- The following Press Nota and Salient Features of the 
Central States scholarships scheme are republished for general information . 

Gopendra Sarma , 
l ublicity Officer, Manipur. 


PRESS NOTE 


CENTRAL STATES SCHOLARSHIPS -- 19 :56 . 


The Government of India offer to award in 1956-57 five scholarships to candi 
datos who by birth or domicilo are natives of Part C States or of Andamans 
and Nicobar Islands . 

The scholarships are tenable for three years or less depending upon the course 
of study choren and are intended for study or research in a foreign country in 
any branch of knowledge for which suitable facilities do not exist in India . Can . 
didates should not ordinarily be moro than 30 years of age on 1st January , 1956 . 

Application forms and the particulars can be obtained from the State Govern 
ment concerned . Completed application forms should reach the State Government 
concerncd not later than 15th October , 1955. All enquiries regarding the scholar 
ships should be addressed ouly to the State Government concerned . Applications 
received direct will not be considered . 


SALIENT FEATURES OF THE CENTRAL STATES SCHOLARSIIIPS SCHEME . 


No particular subject is prescribed . 
U.K./U.S.A./Switzerland etc. 


1. Subject of study . 
2. Name of Country 

for which woholar 

ships are teoable . 
3. Conditions gover 

ning award inclu 
ding sponsorship , 
qualifications and 
experience . 


The following qualifications are prescribed : 
(a ) Only candidates who are by birtbor domicile natives 

of part C Statos or of the Andamans and Nicobar Is 
lanıls are eligible for consideration . 


( b ) Applications are received through the State Govern 

ment concerned . 
(c ) A good degree in the subject in which training is desired . 
( d ) Age limit - 30 years. 
(e) Each candidate Helected for the award is required to 

executo & Bund with the Goveruipent of India to refund 
to the Government Rs. 14,000 /- if he/ she fails to return 

to ludia when dir , cicd by the Government. 
Up to a maximum period of three years. 


4. Duration of 

Scholarship 
5. Value of scholar 

ship . 


The following allowances are admissible in the U. K. 
U. S. A. and Switzerland . 
Maintenanco - Allowances : 
(i) U. K.- £ 382 per annum in institutions other than Ox 

ford and canıbridge and £ 420 per annum in Oxford 

and Cambridge. 
( ii) U. S. A .- $ 1800 per annum . 
( iii) Switzerland ---S.Fr. 500 per mensem . 
NOTE . - Fees will be paid by the Govt. of India to Univet 

sities/ Institutions direct. 


8 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 14 , 1956. 


annum . 


BOOKS. Essential apparatus and study tour Allowance : 

(i) U. K. - pto £ 30 per annum . 
( ii) U , S. A. and Canada - upto $ 125 pe : 
( iii) Switzerland - upto Swiss Frs, 36 % per annum . 
PASSAGE (i) Class II Railway fare from the place of 
residence or work to the port of eubarkation and back , 
( ii ) Second / Tourist Class sea passage both ways, whichever 
is available , ( iii ) Third class (In U. K.) or coach Claas 
( in U. S. A.) from the port of disem barkation to the place 
of study and back . 
The alluwaucos and fees as mentioned at : above are brone 
by the Govt. of India . 
Five . 


6. Financial 

Liability . 
7 , Number of 

awards available . 
8. Last dato or re 

ceipt of applica 

tions . 
9. Application forms. 


15 October , 1955 in the Education Department of the 
State Government cuncerned . 


10. Application fee . 


Application forms, cau be had from the Secret fry , Educa 
tion Department of the State Government concerned . 
No application will be considered without a fee of Rs . 5 / 
(Rs. 1 / 4 / - in the case of Scheduled Castos, Scheduled Tribes 
and other Backward classess ) which should be sent through 
i postal order, along with application in favour of the 
Ministry of Education , Government of India , New Delhi . 
Money ordors in this connection will not be accepted . 


Imphal, the 9 / 10th September, 1956 . 
No. V-5.Press/Pab/55.—The following Press Note is republished for general 
information and guidance . 

Gopendra Sarma , 

Publicity Officer , Manipur . 

PRESS NOTE . 
SINHASTA FAIR will be held at Nasik and Trimbak in Bombay State fourteen 
months from the 20th . Sept. 1955 . It is expected large numbers of Sadhus , 
Bairagis , Gosavis etc., from verious parts of India will attend the 
are likely to carry with them , intoxioants such as Bhany , Ganja Charna, Cocaine , 
Opium etc. As possession and use of such intoxicants , without 

a legal permit , is 
an offence under the Bombay Prohibition Act, 1949 . 

Persons found to be in 
possession of such articles are liable to be 

lible to be prosecuted under the law in force in 
Bombay State . 


Fair and they 


Imphal, the 10 / 12th September , 1955 . 
No. 6 /F /55-56 - It is hereby notified for general information that pursuant to section 
69 of the Indian Partner: hip Act IX of 1932 M / S Mangalchand Meghraj Patni has 
been incorporated that it is a Partnership firm and numbered as B of 1958-56, dated 

thousand nine hundred and fifty five Anno 
the 9th September of the year 
Domini. 

U , M. Sinha , 
Registrar , Firm , Manipur . 


one 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 14 , 1965 . 


NOTIFICATION No. 12 of 1955. 

Imphal, the 13th September, 1955 . 
Applications are invited from candidates for one Petition Writer for the Court 
of District and Sessions Judge and its Subordinate Courts. 

Candidates must be bonafide Manipuri or domiciled in Manipur having thorough 
knowledge of Manipuri and English language. 
Application stating age , qualification , experience if any, 

experience if any, father s Dame and full 
address written in their own hand should be addressed to the Judicial Commissioner, 
Manipur and reach the undersigned on or before 22nd Sept. 1955 upto 1 p.m. 

K. B. Singh , 

Registrar , 
Judicial Commissioner s Court, Manipur. 


Imphal : - Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Press. ( . 200 14 j 55 . 


Manipur Gazette 


सत्यमेव जय 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 30 


Imphal, Wednesday , September 21, 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


1 to 3 


Part I.-- Appointmonts , Postings , Transfors, Powers , 

Leave and other personal notices, 
urt 11. - Ronolutions, Regulations, Orders, Notifi 

cations, Rules etc. 


Part III. - Orders , Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Noticos eto . 


Nil, 
5 to 6 


3 to 4 


PARTI 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 16th September , 1955 . 
No. D /HP /13/54. - In exercise of the powers delegated to him fundor Rule 3(1 ) 
of the Registration of Foreigners Rule , 1939 road with Govt. of India , Ministry 
of Home Affairs Notification No. F. 4 / 6 /49 - F.I ( A ) dt. 9-5-50 , the Chief Commissioner 
is pleased to appoint the Inspector General of Police of Manipur as Registratiop 
Officer for the purposes of the Registration of Foreigners for the whole State of 
Manipur with immediate effect. 

K. G. Singh , 
Asstt. Seeretary (Home) to the Govt . of Manipur. 


CHARGE REPORT , 

Imphal, the 16th September, 1955 . 
We the undersigned have handed over and taken over charge of the Office 
of the District & Sessions Judgo , Manipur, this day , the 16th September , 1955 
in the forenoon at 10 - li A.m. with a cash balance of Rs. 751-8-0 / (Rupees seven 
hundred fifty one and annas eight only ). 
M. R. Sin rh , 

L. M. I. H. Singh , 
Relieved Oificer. 

Relieving Officer. 
Dated 16-9-5 . 

Dated 16-9-55 . 


Imphal, the 17th September, 1955 . 
No. F -DPC /99 /53. - In pursuinoe of the orders contained in the Government 
of India in the late Ministry of States letter No. F. 65 ( 1 )-E / 52 dated April 18 , 
1963 and No. D. 1100 - F /54 dated March 31 , 1954 , the Chief Commissioner is pleased 
to delegate , with immediate effect, the powers detailed in the statement attached 
horewith , to the Blook Development Officer in charge of the Mao National Exten 
Rion Sorvice Block . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 21 , 


1955 . 


Statement showing the powers delegated to the Blook Development 

Officer , Mao -Maram N.E.S. Block . 


Powers . 


Extent of powers . 


1. Powers of the Head of an offico under 

Full powers . 
F. R. and S. R. and Drawing and 

Disbursing Oficer for the Project. 
2. To sanction expenditure on works. Powers as are enjoyed by an Executive 

Engineer of P. W. D. within the limits 

of the sanctioned Detailed estimates . 
3. To sanction casual leave . 

Full powers in respect of Government 

servants working under him . 
4. To sanction earned leave 

earned leave including Full powers in respect of non - gazetted 
loavo without pay and allowances. Government servants and 7 days at a time 

in respect of gazetted Government servants 

working under him . 
5. To make appointment to salaried posts. Full powers in respect of posts carrying 

& pay scale , the minimum of which does 
not exceed Rs. 55 /- p . m . subject to the 
usual course of recruitment as prescribed 

by the State Goverument. 
6. To sanction earned increment acoord 

Full powers in respect of all non - guzettod 
ing to prescribed rules in respect of 

Government servants working under him . 
salaried posts . 
7. To accept resignation of non - gazetted Full 

Full powers in respect of Government 
Government servants . 

servants holding posts, appointment to 

which is made by bim . 
8. Withholding of increments in respect Full powers in respect of Govoroment 
of Government servants. 

servants holding posts , appointment to which 

is made by him . 
9. To act as Controlling Officer under Full powers in respect of non -gazetted 

Supplementary Rules for travelling Government servants working under him . 

allowance claims. 
10. To require medical certificate of fituess Full powers in respect of all Government 
before return from leave. 

servants working under his control, 
11. To fix wages of daily rated workers . Upto a maximum of Rs. 4 / - per day . 
12. To discharge or accept resigoation or 

workers on daily rates of wages . 
13. To sanction increment of wages to Upto il maximum of As.- / 4 /- once every 
workers . 

6 months provided the total wage after 
incroment does not exceed the limit upto 
which he is competent to fix the wage 

of a worker . 
14. To sanction expenditure on majntenance Upto Rs. 200 /- for each item of work 
works . 

within sanctioned estimates . 
15. To sanction contingent expenditure on Upto Rs. 105 /- for a single iteun of non 

items not specifically mentioned else recurring nature and Rs. 10 / - per month 
wbere . 

for a single item of recurring nature . 
16. To sanction expenditure on advertise- | Upto Rs. 100 ,- in a financial year . 

ment charges . 


Full powers . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 21, 1956 . 


8 


Powere. 

Extent of powers . 
17. To sanction expenditure on demurrage Upto Rs. 50 /- per a single case subject 
charges. 

to the coodition that the demurrage cbar 
ges are not due 

to negligence of any 

Guvernment Horvant . 
18. To sauction expendituro on local pur Rs. 5 / - p . m . in each case subject to a 
chase of stationery . 

limit of Rs. 50 / - in any financial year . 
19. To sanction expenditure on purchase Upto Rs. 100 /- per annum . 

of non - official publications. 
20. To sanctiun expenditure on repairs 

repairs | Upt., Rs . 200 /- per vehicle per annum . 
to motor vebicles . 
21. To sanction expenditure ou purchase 

Upto Rs. 100 / - at a time. 
of Misc . stores for office use , such as 

tumblors, water pots , etc. 
22. To sanction expenditure on upkeep At the rate of Re. 1 /- per mensem per 

of type -writers, calculating muchines , machine . 

etc. 
23. To sanction expenditure on repairs 

repairs | Upto Rs. 200 , - in each case of repairs, 
to erection and removal of machinery , erection , removal etc. 
equipment and repairs to furniture and 

fixtures. 
24. To sanction expenditure on the pur Upto Rs. 100 /- within sanctioned Detailed 

chase of furniture and fixture_The Estimate . 
limit shall apply to the cost of furnish 
ing ope office 


PART II 
NOTIFICATION . 


Dated Shillong , the 5th September, 1955 . 


Subject : - Verification by the Treasury Officer of couutersignature on the Travel 

ling allowance claim of Gazetted Goveroment servant for the period 

prior to his transfer to the payment of a new Treasury Officer. 
No. TM./4/55/26.--A reference is invited to rule 177 of the Central Treasury 
Rule Vol-1, which inter -alia imposes an obligation on the Treasury Officer to verify 
the genuineness of the countersignature of the Controlling Officer on the Travel 
ling allowance claims of a gazetted Officer s bill . A question has been raised as to 
bow a Treasury Officer is to satisfy himself of the genuineness of the counter 
signature of the Controlling Officer in respect of a claim prior to the transfer of 
the officer to his payment . As the matter stands at present, no provision exists in 
the Treasury Rules providing for the action to be 

action to be taken by the now Treasury 
Officer in this regard . To meet this lacuna in the rules , it has been decided that 
all the controlling Officers empowered to countersign bills should sand their speci 
men signatures to all the Treasury Ollicers duly attested by the Treasury Officer 
of the district, in which they draw bills so that the new Treasury Officer may 
not have any difficulty to verify tho countersignature . 

The Controlling Officors (Central) and all the Treasury and Sub - Treasury Officers 
in Assam , Tripura and Manipur will please see that the procedure detailed above 
in this regard is strictly followed . 

Amitabha Ghosh , 
Doputy Accountant General ( II), Asgam . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 21 , 1886. 


vro 


নােশ 
। 

ইক্ষাল, তাং ১৯। ৯। ৫৫ ইং । 
অসিনা মরম ওইনা মণিপুরগী এরােড্রোমশিংগী ক্ষতিপুরণ ফংগদবা প্রজা পুমা খংহলি । বারমদি তুলিহন 
এয়ােডড্রাম নত্তনা মণিপুরগী এনােড্রোম পুমী ক্ষতিপুরনগী নােটিশশিং মাগীমাগী খুন্দা ( চৌকিদারদা ) থাবনি । 
দাৰী তৌছুন। কেশ তৌশিং অদু নত্ত অতৈ কনা কনাগুম্বন লম মশিং অমসুং ফংফম থােকপা মীগী মরমদা দাবী 
জেগদ দৈরদি নােটিশ হায়বাি মতম হায়বদি তাং ১৭/১০/৫৫ ইং নিংথৌকাবা মুমিৎ ফাওবগী মংলা উক্ত 
অফিল দাবী তোর মাগনি । নােটিশ য়েংবদা খংবা অমসুং চিনবনচিংবা অতৈ মরম পুলক অফিস হল 
য়াগনি । তুহিন এরােড্রোমী নােটিশতি চাওয়া ওক্টোবর ধাগী অহানবা চয়ােলদা নােটণ তৌরনি । 

# কবিরেন্দ্র সিংহ , 
এস, ডি , সি , । 


4 . 


6 


- 


... 


X 


Imphal, the 20th September, 1955 . 
Sealed tendors are invited for supply of the following furniture for D. M. College , 
Imphal and will be received upto 14.10.56 . 10 % of the value settled to be deposited 
as caution money . Full particulars may be bad from office . The furniture is to 
be made of well seasoned uningthou wood . 
Name of furniture 

Number of furniture Size & particulars 
1 . Desks 

৪ 

6x15x9 
. Benchos 

100 

6 x x1 
8. Leaning bonches 

10 

6x3 x 
Tables 

6 

310x29 x26* 
5. Long tables 

৪ ° x30° x 273 " 
6 . Tables 

6 

3 x23 x2 
7. Stools 

1 * high . 
8. Armed chairs (cane seated ) 

15 
9. Secretariat Chair 
10. Cape seated ordinary chair ... 

6 
1l. Bed - steads with curtain mtands 
3 } high 

3 

69x x1 
1 . Almirah with four shelves 

6 x 8 x 1 } 
13. Notice Board coated with black paint, 

provided with glass panes on one 
side & with locking arrangement 

3 x 2 x } 
14 . Notice Board coated with black paint , 

provided with wire netted door & 
locking arrangement 

3 . 

33 x 2 x 
16 . Letter box 

2 

1 xx " 
16. Painting in white of descriptive names 

on plank against black back ground 50 


০ 


1 


X 


X 


:: 


3 


1 


:: 


X 


N. B. Sinha , 
Offg . Principal, D. M. Cólfege, Imphal. 


i Imphal som Printed and published by the Suporintendent, Government Prom . O. 300 /21-2-55 . 


मन्यमेव जयत 


Manipur 


Gazette 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 31 


Imphal, Wednesday , September 28 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


1 


-0 . 


Part 1.-- Appointments , Postings , Transfers , Powers , 

Leave and other personal notices , 
Part II. - Resolutions , Regulations, Ordern, Notifi 

cations, Rulos etc. 


Part 111. Orders , Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of ladiu , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Notices eto . 


2 to 6 
7 to 10 


2 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 21st September , 1955 . 
No. R /7 /5440 /.— The Clief Commissioner is pleased to appoint Shri Gunamani 
Singh as Sul - Deputy Collector in the scale of Rs. 150-150-200 (Con )-10-260 (EB )-10 
300-121-376 (EB )-121-460 /- with effect from 11-9-56. The officer will be on probation 
for 2 years and confirmation will be subject 

be subject to the passing of the prescribed 
Departmental examinations . Failure to pass the Departmental Examinations will 
make his services liable to termination . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


CHARGE REPORT. 

Imphal, the 12th September , 1955 . 
We the undersigned have handed over and taken over charge of the office of 
the District & Sessions Judge . Manipur , this day , the 12th September, 1955 in the 
afternoon at 4-35 p.m. with a cash balance of Rs. 720-15-0 (Rupees seven hundred 
twonty and annas fifteen only ) . 
L. M. I. H. Singb , 

M. R. Singh . 
12-9-55 . 

12-9-55 . 
Relieved Officer . 

Relieving Officer . 
PART 1 

ORDER 

Imphal, the 20th September , 1955 : 
No. 2555-8 DIB . - In exercise of the powers conferred upon , me by Rule 3 ( 1 ) of the 
Foreigners Order 1948 , 1 , Sbri U. C. Malhoutra , I.P.S., Registration ifficer , appointed 
under Role 3 ( 1 ) of the Registration of Foreigners Rulo 1939 for Manipur declare 
that Morel , q border place of India in Manipur and within my jurisdiotion shall 
be the place of entry of foreigners into India . 

This Order shall not apply to the indigenoux Hill tribes inhabiting Burma upto 
a distance of 26 miles from the Indo -Burma border entering Manipur upto the limits 
of 25 miles . 

U. C. Malhoutra . L.P.S. 
Registration Officer , 

& 
Inspector General of Police , Manipur. 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 28 , 1955 . 


PART III 

NOTIFICATIONS . 

Imphal, the 22nd Septenber , 1955 . 
No. J / 28 / 54.— Tbe fullowing notificativas published in the India Gazette on 
1-8-55 nro republished for general information : -- 

A. K. Ray , 

Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 
Government of India 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry . 

NOTIFICATIONS . 
New Delhi, the 1st August , 1955 . 

( Coffee Control ) 
S.R.O. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 2 ) of section 1 of 
the Coffee Market Expansion (Amendment ) Act , 1954 ( 50 of 1954 ), thic Central 
Government hereby appoints the 1st day of August, 1915 :) , as the date on which 
tho said Act shall come into force. 

( No. 1 ) (5 ) Plant /55 ) 


S.R.O .-- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Coffee Market 
Expansion Act, 1943 (VII of 1942), as amended by the Coffee Market Expansion 
Act , 1954 ( 550 ) of 1964 ), 

(50) of 1964 ) , read with section 22 of the General Clausus Act, 1897 
( x of 1897 ), the Central Government horoby fixes , with eff.ct from the 1st day of 
August. 1955 , two rupees and eight annas per hundred weight as the rate of the 
uty of excise ou coffee uuder ibe said section 12 . 

( No. 15 (4 ) Plant /55 - B ) 


Sd /- P. C. Alexander , 
Deputy Secretary to the Govt . of lodia . 


Imphal, the 22nd Soptomber, 1955 . 
No. N.S.S /1/55. - The following Notification received from the Government of India , 
Ministry of Finunce Department of Economic Affairs , New Delhi dated 23-7-55 is 
republished for general information : 

H , R. Singh , 
Asstt. Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 
NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi, the 23rd July , 1955 . 

Insurance 
S. R. O. No ...... 

..... It is hereby notified for the information of 
all concerued that the Oriental Government Security Life Assurance Company Limited , 
Bombay , being a public company limited by shares carrying on insurance business 
has passed a special resolution for converting itself into a public company limited 
by guarantee and has applied to the Central Governwent under sub-section ( 1 ) of 
section 60 of the Insurance Act , 1938 ! VI. of 1938 ) , with a scheme for putting 
the special resolution into effect, together with the alteration of the memorandum 
and articles of association in so far as thoy are 

necessary for this purpose. An 
is annexed herewith . 
extract from the scheme 
Notice is hereby given that the said scheme will be 

taken into consideration 
on or after the 30th September, 1955. 

Any objection or suggestion received by the Controller of Insurance , Kennedy Oottage, 
Simia , with respect to the said sobeme before the specified date will be considered 
by the Central Government ( No. 107- IF ( 1 )/51). 

sd . ( B. K. Kaul ) 
Deputy Secretary to the Government of India . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 28 , 1955 . 


3 


1 . 


ANNEXURE 
SCHEME FOR MUTUALISATION UNDER SECTION 60 OF THE 

INSURANCE ACT , 1938 . 
In this Soheme, the following words and phrasis shall have the meanings 
respectively as hereinafter mentiuned : --- 

“ Tho Act ” sliall niean the Insurance Act , 1938 . 

“ Appointed Dat " shull mean such date , after the date of sanctio of this Scharne 
by the Central Government, as shall be notified in that behalf by the Original 
Company . 

" Original Com ; ani.” shall mean the Oriental Government Socurity Life Assurance 
Company Limited us at present coustituted . 

“ Mutual Company " shall mean the Oriental Government Security Life Assurance 
Company Limited is rc- constituted under the provisions of this Scheme as c Mutual 
Company 

“ Policy holder " shall ii clude , in the case of policies of assurance , the proposer or 
each of the proposurs 

thereunder , 

ani in 

the case of annuity contracts , the 
purchaser or eich of the purchasers thereof Provided ( a ) that a policyholder who 
has assigned or transferred the whole of his interest in the policy to any 

person 
or persons other than a trustee or trustees , or his employt:rs, in accordance with the 
rules of any Provident Fund Scheme, or any Staff Insurance or other Scheme inten 
ded for the benefit of employees shall n t be deemed to by a polioyLolder , andB (b ) 
that a policy shall be deemed to be subsisting si long as it is in force according 
to the conditions thereof, and has not lapsed without securing x paid -up value or 
been cancelled , and the sum assured under the policy has not become payably or 
in the case of an annuity contract, the annuity has not ceased . 

2 , The Oriental Gorernment Security Life Assurance Company Limited shall , as 
from the Appointed Date , ceas to be a company having the sbare capital, and shall 
be re -constituted under the provisio is of Section 6C of the Act as a company limited 
by gu irantee , and not having a share capital. 

* 3. The Memorandum and Articles of Association andexed hrreto shall be the 
Memorandum aud Articles of Association of the Company as re -constituted . 
4 . As from the Appointed Date, the following consequences shall engue : -- 
(a ) All the properties , ilsnets and moneys of the Original Coinpany represen 

ting its Share Ci.piral aud all its Funds of various kinds shall be taken 
over by tbe Mutual Company and all tho liabilities under policis and 
all other liabilities : f the Original Company shall be taken over by the 

Mutual Cumpany . 
( b ) The Directors of the Original Company shall continue to function as 

Directors of th , Mutual Company until the first Annual General Mouting 
of the Mutual Company wben tho tirst Directors of the Mutual Company, 
except those who have been elected under the provisions of Section 48 

of the Act, shall be elected in the mamer hereinafter provided . 
( c) That the Mutual Compiny shall create and issue to the holders of the 

3,000 shares of the face value of Ls . 209 « ach of the Original Company , 
3,000 Debenturos of the face value of Rs. 8,800 each , promising to pay 
to eich Debenture -holder the said sum of Rs. 8,800 with interest at the 
rate of 4 per cent per annum but without giving any charge upon its 
funds or assets and every bolder of the said 3,000 shares shall receive 
one such Debenture in lieu of every one share held by him and in full satis 
faction and discharge thereof ; so that the 3,000 shares of the face value 
of ks. 200 each shall stand converted into 3,00 1 Debentures of the face 
value of Rs. 8,800 each carrying interest at the said rate of 4 por cent 

per annum . 
* Available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 28 , 1955 . 


caso 


(d ) Thut the interest to be paida on the Debentures for the three year: succee. 

ding al Valuation shall not exched 10 per cent of the Surplus disclosed 
at that Valuation in terms of Section 49 of the Act , and in ( ase there 
shull arise any short -lall or deficienry in payment of interest on the 
Debentures during any Triennium succeeding a Valuation by reason of 
the 10 per cent of the Valuation Surplus not being sufficient to pay in . 
terest on the Dubentures at the said rate of 4 per cent per annum , such 
sho : t- fall or deficiency shall be made good and paid out of the excess, if any , 
of the diversion of 10 per cent, or any smaller percentage , of the Valuation 
Surplus disclosed at the succeeding Vuluation or Valuutions , remaining 
ufter providing for interest at the said jato on the Debcntures for the 

succeeding three years . 
5 . All policyholders of the Original Company whose policies are subsisting on 
the Appointed Date and all policyholders whu shall subsequently hold policies issued 
by tbe Mutual Company shall become and be deemed to have become Members of 
the Mutual Company , in the case of the existing policyholders of the Original Company 
from the Appointed Date and in the of future policyholdurs of the Mutual 
Company from the date they shall become policyholders of the Company , and each 
of them shall guarantee to contribute to the agents of tho Mutual Company in the 
event of its being wound up , whilst ho is Member or within one year afterwards , 
for payment of the debts und liabilities of the Mutual Company contracted befure 
he ceased to be a Member, and the costs , charges and expenses of winding - up , and 
for the adjustment of the rights of the contributories amongst themselves, such 
amount as may be required not exceeding one Rupee . 

6. That in addition every holder of tbe said 3,000 Debentures of the face value 
of Rs. 8,800 each of the Mutual Company shall agree to contribute to the assets of 
the Mutual Company, in the event of its being wound up whilst his Debenture or 
Debentures shall rimain unpaid and unredeamed , for the payment of the debts and 
liabilities of the Mutual Company contracted before he ceased to be a Debenture 
holder, and the costs, charges and expens: 8 of winding up , and for adjustment of 
the rights of the contributories amongst themselves, such amount as may be required 
not exceeding Rs. 200 for every Debenture held by him . 

7. That 15 per ceut of the Surplus disclosed at any Triennial Valuation shall be 
utilised to pay interest on the Debentures at the said rate of 4 rer cent per unnum . 
and the balance shall be carried to & Sinking Fund , subject to the provisions of 
Clause 4(d ), which Fund shall be invested in any of the securities authorised by the 
law for the time being for the investment of Trust Funds, or on deposits with Sche 
duled Banks, or in the purchase of the said Debentures. All Debenturos so pur 
obased shall be immediately cancelled and withdrawn. 

8. That, subject to the next succeeding ( lause , at the end of 20 years all the 
then outstanding Debentures shall be paid off and redeemed at their said face value 
of Rs. 8,800 provided however that the Company shall have the right at the end of 
10 years , and if such right shall not be then exercised , at 

the end of 15 years , 
if so decided by an Ordinary Resolution passed at a meeting of the members only 
of the Mutual Company and specially called 

for the purpose , to pay off all the 
outstanding Debentures at the said face Valuo . 

(9 ) In case at the end of the period of 20 years , the total amount then stan . 
ding to the credit of the Sinking Fund shall be more than what shall be required 
to pay off all the then outstanding Debentures at the said face value," the balance 
shall be credited to the Life Insurance Fund of the Mutual Company , but if the 

shall be insufficient to pay off all the then outstanding Dobanture at the 


1.11 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 28 , 1958 . 


8 


said face value, as many Debentures es can be redeened out of the Sinking Fund 
( which shall be drawn by lot ) shall be redeemed , and subsequently at each succee 
ding Triennial Valuation , the remaining Debentures shall be redeemed ( drawn by lot ) 
out of 16 per cent of the disclosed Surplus after deduction of interest on tbe 
Debentures, outstanding from time to time until all the said Debentures are redeemed . 

10. The Board of Direotors of the Mutual Company shall consist of twelve Directors , 
who shall be elected as follow 8 : 


(a ! Thrse Directors shall be elected by the policyholders under the provisions 

of Seotion 48 of the Aot . 
(b ) Five Directors shall be elected by the Dabenture-bolders , and be styled 

as “ Debonture -holders Directors." 
( c ) The remaining four Directors shall be elected by the Members of the 

Mutual Company , and be styled “ Members Directors . " 
(d ) Fur overy reduction of 600 in the number of outstanding Debentures 

subsisting on the books of the Mutual Company , there will be a reduction 
at the next Ordinary General Meeting of the company of one in the 
number of Debenture-bolders ’ Directors , and a corresponding increase of 
ony in the number of Members Directors . 

Directors . For this purpose, only the 
number 600 or any multiples tberoof but not any fractions thereof shall 

be taken ipto account. 
(e) After all the said 3,000 Debentures sball be redeemed , the entire Board 

of tbe Mutual Company , except for the Directors elected under Section 48 

of the Act , shall coosist of Members Directors only . 
( f) The qualification of a Debenture-holders Director shall be the holding 

in his own name of at least 10 Debentures of the Mutual Company . 
(g) The qualification of a Members Director shall be the bolding of a policy 

or policies of life assurance issued by the Original Company or by the 
Mutual Company assuriog an aggregate sum of at least Rs. 10,000 , exclusive 
of any bonus, which policies are kept in force for the full sum assured 
or else & policy or policies which has or have acquired an aggregate 
paid -up value of not less than Rs. 10,000 exclusive of any bonus, or 
else the holding of any annuity or annuities on human life the aggregate 

amount payable under wbich sball not be less than Rs. 1,200 por annum . 
(b ) at the first Ordinary General Meeting of the Mutual Company to be 

held not more than six months from the Appointed Dato , all the Directors 
except the three Directors elected under the provisions of Section 48 of 
the Act , shall vacate office and thereupon five Debenture -holders Direc 
tors and four Members Directors shall be elected by the Debenture 

holders and Members of the Mutuel ( ompany respectively . 
(i) At every subsequent Ordinary General Meeting of the Mutual Company, 

one third of the number of Debenture- holders ’ Directors or if their num 
ber is not a multiple of three, the number nearest to one- third , shall 
retire from office and their 

successors elected by the lebenture - holders . 
Likewisy one-third of the number of Members Directors , or if their num 
ber is not inultiplo of three the number nearest 

to one - third shall 
retire fçoin office, and their suc09890rs elected by the Members . 

In the 
case of any reduction at any 

subsequent Ordinary General Meeting of 
the Company of the number of Debentare -bol lers Diructors , if there is 


6 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 28 , 1955 . 


only one such Director retiring by rotation at that time, his office 
shall not be filled up . If there are two such Directors retiring by rot 
ation at that time, then out of the retiring Directors only the requisite 
number to be re - elected after deduction of the number to be reduced 
shall be re - elected . In the case of any increase in the number of Mem 
bers Directors, following a corresponding reduction in the number of deben 
ture - holders Directors , the Members , in addition to filling up the places 
of the Members Directors retiring by rotation , shull also elect additional 
Members Directors equal to the increase in the numbir of Members 
Directors following any reduction of the number of Debenture -holders 

Directors , 
( j ) In the case of Debentui e-bulders Directors , tirse to retire either by 

rotation or conseqnent upon any reduction in the number of Debenture 
holders Directory shall be these who huve been longest in oflice since 
their last election , and as between those who hirve boen equally long 
in office as Debenture - holders Directors since their last election , those to 
retire shall ( in default of any agreement between them ) be determined 
by lot. Likewise in the Cuse of Members Directors thuse to retire by 
rotation shall be those who have ween longest in office since their last 
election as Mo n bers Directors, and as between those who have been equally 
long in offive as 

Members Directors since their last election , those to 
retire sball ( in default of any agreement between them ) be determined 


by lot. 


(k ) Every Debenture - holder u ho shall be a policyholder of the Mutual Com 

pany shall be entitled to vote at the election of Members Directors 

also in addition to voting on the election of Dubenture -lvlders Directors . 
(1) Every Debenture- bolder who shall hold the necessary policy qualification 

for qualifying to be a Members Director shall be entitled to stand fur 
election as and to be a Members Director , 


That the Meinorandum of Association of the Company be altered as foll w8, viz ., 
that in lieu of the 6th paragraph of the Memorandum the following two paras be 
substituted : 


“ 5th . Every Member of the Company agrees t ) contribute to the assets of thie 
Company in the event of its being wound up while he is a Member, or within one year 
afterwards , for payment of the debts und liabilities of the Coinpary contracted before 
he ceased to be a Member , and the costs , charges and expenses of winding up and for 
the adjustment of the rights of the contributories among theinselves, such amount as may 
be required not exceeding One Rupee ." 

" 6th . Every holder of the 3,000 Debeatures of the face value of Rs . 8,800 euch of 
the Company agrees to contribute to the assets of the Company in the event of its 
being wound up while his Debenture or Debentures shall remain unpaid and unredeemed 
for the payment of the debts and liabilities of the Company contructed before he censed 
to be & Debenture -bolder , and the costs , charges and expenses of winding up and for the 
adjustment of the rights of the contributories among themselves, such amount as may 
be required not exceeding Rs. 200 for every Debenture held by him ." 

The aforesaid alterations do come into force from the Appointed Date mentioned in 
the said Scheme. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 28 , 1955 . 


7 


PART IV 


NOTICE No. 15 


consumers 


Imphal, the 8th August , 1955 . 
It is hereby notified for general information that the annual auction sale of grass 
mahala will take place in the Forest Office , Imphal at 11-0 A. M. daily , commencing 
from 12th October , 1955 . 

The list of grass mahals to be sold on each disy is given below with dates . 

The successful bidders shall have to pay the sale proceeds of the grass mahals in 
full on the day of the sale . In case of innability to pay the sale price on the 
day of sale , the grass mahal will be resold at the risk of former bidder. 

With a view to know the existing gras contents of the grass mabals , the inten 
ding contractors or 

may visit and inspect the grass mahals for which 
thoy want to bid in the auction . 

auction . When the auction is con lucted and the price 
of a particular grass mahal is fixed , no futuro complaint for reduction in the sale 
prico , on grounds of paucity of grass contents or any other cause , will be considered . 

Any one who wishes to lodge a reasonable complaint, on a particular grass nahul , 
he should apply to the Forest Department some days earlier that the auction takes 
place . 
List of Grass Mahal. ( in Imphal Eart Tahsil ) to be sold on 12th October , 1955 . 

(Wednesday) 
1. Taknakhapat Grass Mahal. 

26. Heikakmapan . 
2. Linchilipat 

27 . Kharason . 
3. Heingang Forest Reserve. 

28 . Laikot . 
4. Mongjam . 

29. Soubungkhok . 
ö . Maibakhul. 

30. Yaingangpok pi. 
t . do Mapaoching . 

31.. Thamnapokpi & Gwaltabi hill area . 
7. Koirengei. 

32. Lokmang . 
8. Awang Posang bam . 

33. Nongpok Sangsabi Chingkhei Reserve . 
9 . Haraurou 

34. Nongpok Sanjembam . 
10 , Awang Ngairangbam . 

36. Kakching Nongdam . 
11 . Morok Ingkhol, 

36. Ningthemchakhul. 
12 . Yumnam Khunow including Isaiga . 37. Tbayong Heirok . 
13 . Sinam Konjin ( A ) 

39. Tumukhong . 
14 . Sinam Konjin ( B ), Isivgthembi. 39. Itham Laikhong . 
15. Thongnangpal. 

40. Moitangprem . 
16 . Yumnam Patlow . 

41. Andro . 
17. Sagolming ( Khewa Company ) . 42. Kamuvaithibi. 
18. Pukhao ( exclusion of Maraori area ) . 43. Keithelmaubi. 
19. Purum Khulen . 

44. Nungbrang 
23. Uyumpok including Khamelok . 

Leirongthen . 
21. Lamboikbul, 

46. Kakmayai. 
22 , Taret Khul, Keibi Kbulen . 

47. Changamntabi. 
23. Keibi Laousangkhong. 

48. Khoiromkekru . 
24 . Pourabi Wairi Chingol, 

49. Wangkbem ( Keirao Valloy area ) . 
26. Keibi Khucou including Chanung. 

List of Grass Mahals in Imphal West Tahsil to be sold on 13th October , 1955 . 
1. Langon with new extension of Khamral. 6 . Mabarabi. 
2. Lamlongei. 

7. Leikinthabi. 
3. Tingri No. I ( Luwangsangol area ) 8. Sekmai . 

9. Keingam Kanto . 
West Gwaltabi. 

10. Phumlou . 


45 . 


4. Tingri No. II 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 28 , 1965 . 


10 


11. Mayang Langjing , 

21. Leingangpat. 
12. Lairen Sajik . 

22. Uchiwa . 
13. Longa Koirong . 

23. Hayel. 
14. Moidangpok Sajirok . 

24. Hangul. 
lo . Khaidem . 

25. Lapbupat. 
16. Heigrujam . 

26. Komlakhongpat . 
17. Kangubung Langoljam . 

27. Phougakchao . 
18 . Sharpurou . 

28. Arong . 
19. Yangoikhongbanpat . 

29. Thongam , 
20. Leitangpat. 

List of Grass Mahals in Bishenpur Tahsil to be sold on 14-10-55 . ( Friday ) 
1. Kha -mangjen bam . 

16. Naran Seina & Sunusiphai. 
2. Thounaojam Pukhrambam . 

17. Langjingmanbi Steewart Reserve . 
3. Sana pat . 

18 , Phuballa . 
4. Leinambipat . 

19. Ngangkbalawai. 
6. Kongkham Awangpat. 

20. Kha- Thinungei, Thangalawai invlufin 
6. Utrapat. 

Moirang Khunow . 
7 . Matum Yangbi. 

21. Moirang . 
8. Meiohak pi. 

22 . Kwakta 
9 . Toubul. 

23. Kha - Thamna Pokpi (Khojreptak ). 
10. Khoijuman . 

24 . Saiton . 
11. Bishenpur N. ( H ) . 

26. Kumbi Kangshoibi. 
12 . Bishenpur S. (h ) . 

26. Ungamlen . 
i3 . Kha - Potsangbam . 

27. Karang. 
14. Ningtboukhong . 

28. Khangalamjuopat, 
15. Thinungei. 

29. Keibulamjaopat. 
List of Grass Mabals in Thoubal Tabsil to be sold on 17-10-55 . (Monday ) . 
1. Ushoipokpi. 

23 . Imon . 
2. Suktu Karong. 

24. Ireng pal. 
3. Lilong Turela hanbi Mapal. 

25. Kakching Khullen . 
(a ) Near Dolaithabi 

26 . Keirak . 
( b ) Kshetripan . 

27. Lamjao . 
4 . Waitbou Soirenpat . 

28 . Laimanai Nungu Sanamabi 
5. Waithou Phumnompat . 

29. Thounaojam , 
6. Ningthibakhong . 

30. Elangkbangpokpi. 
7. Moirangsangolpat. 

81. Thongjao. 
8. Chandrakhong . 

33. Kakobing Khunon . 
9. Shikhong . 

33. Thongam . 
10. Ningel. 

34. Pumlenpat. 
11 . Sekmaikhunbi. 

85. Nungu . 
12. Keipha ( between Tentha & Khanga bok ). 86. Tangjong . 
13 . Tentba Khulen . 

37. Sugnu Kangbung Reserve . 
14. Ikop Laidakolpat. 

38. Kbarungpat. 
15 . Heirok 

39. Lamjaokhongpat . 
16. Salungpham . 

40. Wangu Aballup Shoet No. I. 
17. Lamlong. 

41. Ithai Sheet No. II . 
18. Langol. 

42. Wangu . 
19. Koijam Konjin No. ) . 

43. Chuiren Ahallup and Laipham . 
20. Koijam Konjin No: 2 . 

44. Minhou . 
21. Khunbi Valloy . 

45. Tolshon , 
22. Pallel. 

R. Ky B. 0. Singh , 
Forest Officer , Govt . of Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 28 , 


1956 . 


9 


NOTICE. 


Imphal, the 21st September , 1955 . 
No. CA /6 / 55 ( iii )-173 . - Applications are invited for posts of Upper Division Clerks 
and Lower Division Clerks in the Manipur Secretariat in tbe scales of Rs. 80-4 . 
160-5-180 /- and RA . 56-3-118-4-130 /- respectively plus Dearness allowance admissible 
under the rules . Applioants for posts of Upper Division Clerks must be graduatos 
with some previous experience of work in Government servences while applicants for 
posts of Lower Division Clerks must at least be Matriculates . 

Applications stating (1) age on 1-9-55 (2 ) Father s name ( 3 ) Full address (4 ) 
Educational qualification with division in which the eximinutions were passed and 
(6 ) Previous experience with testimonials if any, should reach the undersigoed on 
or before the 7th October , 1955. Attested copies of University Certificatus in proof 
of educational qualification and ago are to be furnished with the application which 
should be also accompanied by two certificates of good character from Gazetted 
Govt. servants or respectable gentlemen . Applications for persons already working 
in Government offices will not be entertained if not forwardod by the Head of the 
office concerned . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


TENDER NOTICE No. ME ( 1 ) 

Imphal, the 21st September, 1955 . 
Sealed tenders superscribed as " Tenders for Printing of Municipal Rolls ” are invited 
from local Presses for printing approximately 6954 names of voters. Tenders would be 
received by the undersigned upto 12.00 noon of the 30th September, 1955 and will 
opened at 1.00 P.M. of the same date in the presence of any tenderer who may like 
to be present. 

2. Intending tenderers may see the lay - out of the forms etc. in which the Electoral 
Rolls are to be printed on enquiry from the undersigned during office hours of any 
working day . The work of printing of the rolls is to be completed within the period 
of 20 (twenty ) days from the acceptance of the tender . Successful tenderers 
required to deposit into Treasury Rs. 50 /- as security deposit to be refunded on the satisfac 
tory complction of the work . 
3. The undersigned does not bind himself to accept the lowest or any tender . 

T. C. Tiankham , 
Sr. E.A.C. & Magistrate i/ c Municipal Election , 

Manipur. 


are 


NOTICE No. 8 /55-56 . 

Imphal, the 17th September , 1955 . 
It is hereby notified for general information of the Public that 77 mds . & 9 srs . 
of paddy (CH.46-19 mds. 29 sTA ., PTB.10-32 mds . 25 srs. , Phouren 13 mds. 10 srs ., 
Chapglei 8 mds. 26 srs., & Phuudum s mds.) will be sold by public auction on 
the 3th October, 1955 at 1 p.m. at the State Godown , Intending bidders are re 
quested to be present at the schecluled time and place . Further particulars can be 
had from the Office of the undersigned . 

G. H. Singh , 
Direotor of Agrioulture , Manipur . 


10 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SEPTEMBER 28 , 1965 . 


Impbal, the . 26th September, 1955 . 
No. RH /77 /51- A / 17. — The following letter No. RSC / Cal/ Records/ 38 /5344 dated 
12-7-55 received from the Regional Settlement Commissioner, Eastern Region , Ministry of 
Ryhabilitation , Caloutta to the Chief Commissioner, Manipur is published for general 
information , 

H , Ranbir Siogh , 

Asstt . Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 
The Ministry of Rehabilitation has invited applications from displaced persons 
from West Pakistan who bave verified claims with effect from 27th June , 1965 . 
The applications have to be submitted within three months of the date of the 
notification . In pursuance of the said notification we have to receive applications 
with respect to verified land claims also from West Pakistan Displaced Persons 
of Non - Punjabi extraction , i. e . those to whom no land has so far been allottud , 
I am therefore to request you to give widest publicity to this fact in your State 
and to receive applications with respect to the verified land claims. 

Such applicatiuns should be kept separately and on the top of each application should 
written in bold red ink “ Land Claim application only ” . 

The applications have to be submitted in the same manner as other applications for 
compensation . 


Imphal, the 19th September , 1955 . 
No. 7 / JS / 01 / 55-56 . - It is hereby notified for general information that pursuant 
to Section 20 of the Societies Registration Act XXI of 1860 , an Association under 
the name and style of the Manipur Man Building Institute has been incorporated 
and numbered as 7 of 1955-56 dated the 8th September , of the year one thousand 
nine hundred and fifty five Anno Domini. 

U. M. Sinka , 

Registrar, 

Joint Stock Companies , Manipur . 
Imphal, the 19th September , 1953 . 
No. 8 / F / 55-56 . - It is hereby notified for general information that pursuant to 
Section 59 of the lodian Partnership Act IX of 1932 M / S . The Khalsa Brothers 
& Co. , has been incorporated that it is & Partnership Firm and numbered as 8 of 
1955-56, dated the 17th September of the year one thousand nine hundred and fifty 
five Anno Domini. 

U. M. Sinba , 
Registrar, Firm , Manipur. 


CORRIGENDUM . 

Imphal, the 27th Sept., 1955 , 
No. C -HDE / 97 /51/ 189( Pt) —Read as " Shri S.L. Chowdhury " instead of “ Shri S.D. Chowdhury 
occurring in the 2nd line of this Secretariat Notification No. C - E /97 /51Pt dated the 28th August, 1955 . 


By order , 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Government of Manipur. 


alsprinted 

Printed me hubnahme by the Saperintendent Government Press O. 300 /28-9-55 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


मचमेवा 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 32 


Imphal, Wednesday , October 5 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


1 to 2 


Part 1. - Appointmeots, Postings, Transfers, Powers , 

Loave and other personal notices , 
Part II.-- Resolutions, Regulations, Orders , Notif 

cations, Rules etc. 


Part II . - Orders, Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV .-- Advertisements and Noticos oto . 


2 to 6 
5 to 7 


2 


PART I 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 27th September , 1955 . 
No. CA /44 /55-5 . — The Chief Commissioner has been ple used to order the follow 
ing postings with immediate effect : 

1. Shri 8. Gourahari Singh , Offg . Director of Agriculture , Manipur, is appointed 
with immediate effect as Asstt. Secy . (Dev ) against the post sanctioned under C. C. s 
Order No. F - DPC /40 /53 /99 dated 4th of May, 1955 . 

2 . On relief by Shri S. Gourahari Singh , Shri Ranbir Singh , Offg . Asstt . Secy . 
( Dev) is appointed until further orders as Asstt. Secy . (General) against the post 
created under C. C. s Order No. CA / 44 /55-3 dated 26-9-55 . 

Imphal, the 28th September , 1955 . 
No. Regis 2 /54. - In exercise of the power conferred upon him by Soc . 6 of the 
Indian Registration Act, 1908 , read with Govt. of India , Ministry of States Notifi 
cation No. 124- J dated 20th September , 1950 and in supersession of the orders 
issued under this Secretariat Order No. Regis / 2 /54 dated 26th of August , 1954 , 
the 

Chief Commissioner is pleased to appoint Shri R. C. Dev Chowdhury , Addl. 
Deputy Commissioner, Manipur as the District Registrar for Manipur until further 
orders. 

A. K. Ray , 
Chicf Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


Imphal, the 29th September , 1955 . 
No. C HDE / 98 /51 238. - The Chief Commissioner has been pleased to appoiot Shri 
Ch . Kalacband Singh , B.A. B.T. , Shastri temporarily as Headmaster , Johnstone High School 
in the scale of Rs. 175-15-250- EB - 20-350 -EB- 25-400 /- p.m. with effect from the date of 
issue of this order terminable at any time without conferring any clzim for confirmatioa. 

The above order has been passed in supersession of the Orders contained in this Secre 
tariat Notification No. HDE, 67/54/68 dated the 21st March , 1955 . 

By order , 

T. KIPGEN , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 5 , 


19555 , 


Imphal, the 28th September, 1955 . 
No. J/ 14 /55. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 12 

and 39 of 
the Code of Criminal Proceduro , 1998 , the C: jef Commissioner is pleased to invest 
Shri Guvamani Sinha, Sub - Deputy Collector with the pwers of a Magistrate third 
class within the jurisdiction of the State of Manipur. 

This order shall cime into effect from the date of publication in the Manipur 
Gazette . 


Imphal, the 29th September , 19 5 . 
No. R /7 /54.V. - In exercise of the powers vested in him under Sec . 127 of the 
Assam Lani & Revenue Regulation , 1886 , 

as extenitori to Manipur , thn Chief 
Commissioner is pleased to authorisa until further ord :rs Sh :: II . Ibunigoyaima Singh , 
E. A. C. to exercise the powers of + Deputy Commissioner . 


A. K. Kay , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


PART II 


Imphal, the 27th September, 1955 . 
No. CA / 44 / 55-3 . — The Chief Commissioner is pleased to sanctiun the creation of 
A post of Assistant Secretary (General) in th Manipur Secretariat from the 26th 
of September , 1955 to the 29th of February , 1956 on the sanctioned scale of pay , 
i. e . Rs. 250-250-300 ( Con )-25-400 (EB )-26-600-(EB)-25-650 / -, plus allowances as admis 
sibla under the rules . 

2. The expenditure will be met out of the sanctioned budget estimates for the 
year 1966-58 under 25 General Administration - Al. Chi.f Commissioner --A1 ( 1) -Pay 
of Officers . 

A. K. Ray, 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


PART III 

Imphal, the 26th September , 1955 . 
No. Try /44 /54. - The following Notification No. F.8 /( 39 )-B /54 dated 13-7-56 received 
from the Govt. of India , Ministry of Financy is republished for general information . 

H. RANBIR SINGH , 

A sstt . Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 
NOTIFICATION . 

New Delhi, the 13th July , 1955 . 
No. 7.8 (39 )-B /54 .-- It is notified for general information that with effect from the 
1st Auglist 1955 , Ten - Year Treasury Savings Deposits, receivable in terms of the notifica 
tion of the Govt. of India in the Ministry of Finance , No. 7 ( 1 )-13,5 ) , dated the 22nd Jan., 
1951 shall also be received at all treasuries and sub -troasuries in the States of Saurashtra , 
Rajasth in , Madhya Bharat, Patiala and East Punjab States Union , Hyderabad , Travan 
core- Cochin , Ajmer , Bhopal, Elimachal Pradesh , Kutch , Coorg , Manipur and Tripura , at 
places where there is no branch of the State Bunk of ludix and in the ca9o of the State of 
Hyderabad , where there is no branch of the Hyderabad State Bank conducting Goveromont 
treasury business. 

8d / K. C. Das 
Under Secretary . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 8 , 1965 . 


3 


Imphal, the 29th September , 1955 . 
No. V.10.FO/Pub/55.-The following documents received from the Govt . of 
India , Ministry of information and Broadcasting , New Delhi 2 , alu republished for 
general information . 

Gopendra sama , 

Publicity Ullice " Mini, ur . 
Ν Ο Τ Ι Ρ Ι Ο Α Τ Ι Ο Ν 

New Delbi.2 , the 2nd February , 1955 . 
No. 1 /51 /54 -F : - In pursuance of the liesolution of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. 1 /61/54- F , dated the 2nd February , 
1955, The ( entral Government hereby re -constitutes the Film Advisory Bad , Bombay 
with effect from the 16th Februúry, 1955 and appoints the following as iis ii embers 
with effect from the same date : 

1. Chairman , 
Central Board of Film Censors 

Ex - officio Chairman 
2. Regional Officer, 
Central Board of Film Censors , Bombay 

Ex officio member 
3. Srimati Leela Jog , 

Member , Bombay Advisory Panel, 

Central Board of Film ( ensors 
4 , Dr. D. G. Vyas 
6. Sri D. N. Marshall 
6 . Sri D. P. Wagle 
7 . Kumari S. Panaudikar 
8 . Sri V. Shantaram 
9 . Sri Habib Hoosain 

Sd / D. Krishna Ayyar , 

Under Secretary to the Govt . of India . 
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

RESOLUTION 

New Delhi, the 2nd February 1955. 
: No. 1/51/54.F .-- Whereas the Film Advisory Board has been functioning for recom 
mending documentaries and newsreels produced by the Films Division und by private 
producers for grant of approval certificates with reforonce to the relevant condition in 
the cinema licences and whereas a direction bas now been issued by the Central Govern 
ment under sub- section (4 ) of section 12 of the Cinematogr4ph Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 
1952 ), and by the various State Governments under their own Acts , it has been decided 
that the Film Advisory Board should be entrusted with the responsibility of approving 
films which may be regarded as scientific films, films intended for educational purposes, 
films dealing with news and current events or documentary films with reference to these 
directions. 

2 . The rules governing the working of the Film Advisory Board will be as follows : 
( 1) The Board shall consist of not less than seven members , to be appointed by 
the Central Government , as follows : 

(a ) Chairman of the Central Board of Film ( ensors -- Ex -Officio Chairman . 
(b ) Regional Officer of the Central Board of Film Censors , Bombay - Esc 

Officio member. 
( c) A member of the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors 

at Bombay 
(d) Not less than four other members including an educational and two 

persons with knowledge of films and film making . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 5 , 1955 . 


Explanation . — “ Regional Officer " includes “ Additional Regional Officer " und " Assistant 
Regional Officer ” . 


(2) Members other than the ex -officio members and the member of the Advisory 
Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors , Bombay , sbull be appointed for i period of 
two years and will be eligible for re- appointment. The member of the Advisory Panel 
sball be appointed as a member of the Board for the full term of his membership of the 
Panel. 


( 3 ) The Guvernment of India may for it cluse sufficient in its opinion , rem ve any 
momber of the Board before the expiration of the period of his office . 

( 4 ) Tbe non -official members of the Board will work in an honorary capacity . They 
may be paid such conpensatory allowance as the Central Government may from time 
to time determine . 


(6 ) The Regional Officer of the Central Board of Film Censors at Bombay will be 
the Secretary of the Board . 


(6 ) No act or proceeding of the Board shall be called in question on the ground 
merely of the existence of any Vacancy in or defect in the constitution of the Buard . 


(7 ) Unless otherwise directed by the Government of India , the Headquarters of the 
Board shall be at Bombay , 


(8 ) Meetings of the Board shall be presided over by the Chairman , and , in his 
absence the members present muy elect one among themselves to preside . 


( 9 ) The quorum of the Board shall be three . 


( 10 ) The decision of the Board shall be that of the majority of the members attend 
ing the meeting and in the event of an equality of votes, the presiding officer shall 
have a second or casting voto . The decision of thy Board shall be firal. If any appli 
cant wants to miiko any representation in regard to the film submitted by him , however , 
the Board shall give him an opportunity to do so and it shall be open to the Board 
to revise their decision in the light of any such representation . 

(11) The Board shall be ordinarily meet every week for the purpose of approving 
films as scientific filing , films intended for educational purposes , films dealing with 
news and ourrent events or doo:1tentary films in terms of th directions issued by the 
Government of India under sub -section (4 ) of section 12 of the Cinematograph Act , 1952 
(XXXVII of 195 :-) and any similar directions issued by the State Governments. 

( 12) Any person , firm , organisation or Government desirous of having any of his 
or its films approved by the Buard shall send an application in writing to the Secretary 
of the Board stating the title of the film and the source from which it can be obtained 
by the exhibitors ind such other particulars as may be rəquired by the Board . 

(13 ) The Board will communicate the titles and subje ate of the films approved by 
them , together with the informition reg irjing the sources from which they can be 
obtained , to the Contrul Governinent. The titles of the films certified to be scientific 
films, films intended for educational purposes, films dealing with news and current 
events or documentary films by thu Contral Government, with the approval of the film 
Advisory Buard , will be notifiod in the Gazette of India together with the address from 
which they can be obtained . 

P. M.LAD , Secy . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 8 , 1986 . 


PART WY 

Imphal, the soth September , 1975 . 
No. E -HDE /167 /6575 . - It bolas been decided that an examination for selection of 
candidates for admission in the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur in the 
1956-57 Session will be held at Impbal for the convenience of candidates from this 
State . It will be held sometime in April or May , 1856 under the Officersliip in charge 
of the Inspector of Schools , Manipar. 

The vonue the dates and other particulars of the examination will be notified 
in due course . 

T. KIPGEN , 
Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


Imphal, the 30th Sept. 56 . 
No. V. 7. PRESS PUB / 55.- The am inde i prozamno of A.R.A. area compensation 
is published for general information . 

Gopendra Sharma, 

Publicity Officer , Manipur . 
Payment programme of A.R.M. aria compensation in respect of Mao Maram 
Circle , issued under this Office No. 672 /Claims dated 12-9-55 

has been amended as below . 


Place of payment. 


S. No. 


Date 


Name of village 


Karong 


1 . 
2 . 
3 . 
4 , 
5 . 
6 . 
7 . 
8 . 

9 . 
10 . 
11 . 
12 . 
13 . 


110.65 


1 


Maram 


14 . 


6.10.45 . 


15 . 
15 . 
17. 
18 . 
19 . 
20 . 
21 . 


Ngawar 
Sadim Pukhri 
Phailonkot 
Thangjam 
Karong 
Salsi 
Ngamcha 
Yangaoi 
Phoibung Kuki 
Lusbangphung 
Khamaron 
Washangphung 
Chalhang 
Makhan 
Khongnem 
Tingsong 
Oklony 
Thingba Khulen 
Wilong 
Many 
Yangkbullon 
Thingba Khunou 
Oinam 
Nghiri 
Lakhamei 
Pbuda 
Chiongmei Khnuor 
Tunggam 
Maiba 
Saranama 
Tungjol 


6.10.56 


22 . 


} 7.1058 


23 . 


Tadubi 


8.10.56 


4 . 
25 . 
26 . 
27 . 


28 . 
29 . 


} 9.10.06 
} 10.10.55 


80 . 
81. 


W. Gauro Singh , 

8.D.C. Claims. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 5, 1966 .. 


TENDER NOTICE . 


Imphal, the 26th September , 1956 . 
Sealed tenders are invited for the supply of the following articles . Tenders will be 
received by the undersigned upto 18th Oot., 1955. Full particulars can be had from the 
office during office hours. 

10 % of ihe accopted amount will have to be deposited as caution money by the suo 
cessful tenderer on the very day of signing the agreement which will be a refunded after 
completion of supply and acceptance by the undersigned . There is no obligation to accept 
the lowest tender or any tender and t ) assign any reason thereof. 


List of articles . 


1. Slays . 

( i) 7:2" reed space . 


( ii ) 64 " 
( iii ) 56 " 
(iv ) 52" 
( v ) 50 " 
( vi) 40 " 


12 Nos . 
12 
120 
34 
12 


6 
196 


Total 
24 


2. Bamboo reeds 
Count of Reed & size. 

1208 x 40 " 
1208 x 56 " 
1008 x 36 " 
1008 x 58 " 
808 x 40 " 
728 x 52" 
648 X 50 " 
688 x 24" 
408 x 64 " 
408 x 56 " 
488 x 56 " 
448 x 56 " 
368 x 58 " 


12 
12 
24 
12 
24 
36 


24 
12 
12 
24 
12 
12 
240 


Gopendra Sharma, 
Publicity Officer, Manipur. 


Notice No. 588 - HE . 


Imphal, the 29th Aug. 1955 . 
No. B.HE /4 / 55 / 100-1. - In accordance with the provision laid down in para ( 2 ) schedule of the Indian 
Electricity Act , 1910 ( Act IX of 1910 ) it is notified to the electric consumers that the following 
revised rates of charges for domestic use shall come into effect from 1st August, 1955 . 


Grons per 


Rebate per 


Net , per 


unit . 


unit . 


Tar 


Light & fan ( from domestic purposes ). 

-17 / 
Other charges will continue to be the same as before . 


anit. 
-/ 6 / 


-/ 1/ 


T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 5 , 1958 . 


NOTICE 


KHADI-HUNDIES 

Imphal, the 3rd October , 1955 . 
No. K / IN - 23 / 55. — Khadi- Hundies of the Denomination Rs . 2 / - 51- 10 / - 25 /- 50 / 
and 100 /- aro available for purchase during business hours at all post offices upto 31st 
March 1956. These hundies are used for the purpose of purchasing Khadi from any 
recognised sale depot at place in India , but not for any other purpose . 

These will be 
current for a period of six months following the month in which they are issued and should 
be redeemed on or before 30th Sept. , 1956 . 

On the occassion of the inauguration ceremony of Khadi- Ilundi sale by synchronising 
with the Gandhi Jayanti Day on Sunday the 2nd Oct., 1955 Imphal Post Office will be 
kept open specially for the purpose of sale of Khadi-Hundies to the willing customers 
from 10 to 16 hours . 

H. RANBIR SINGH , 
Assistant Secretary , (Gel) . 


Imphal, the 29th September , 1955 . 
No. 3525 /57 / VD /55. - Sealed tenders are invited for the purchase of the following 
lorries belonging to Manipur State Transport in as is where is condition . The per . 
mits are non - transferable and the purchasers do not become entitled to the permits 
on the purchase of the vehicles . Tenders should be accompanied by & bank draft 
for Rs. 100 /-in favour of the Manager , Manipur State Transport , which will be trea 
ted as earnest money . The vehicles will be available for inspection at Imphal during 
office hours 

hours by arrangement with the Manager . Tenders should be received before 
5.00 P. M. on 15th October , 19.55 . 


FORD TRUCKS 
1. M. N. S. 1881 
2 . 

/ 383 
3 . 

1393 
4 . 
6 . 

/ 1691 


27 


9 


11690 


CHEVROLET TRUCKS 

1. M. N. S. / 163 
2 . 

1201 
3 . 

/ 279 
4 . 

/ 2682 
5 . 

1357 
6 . 

1476 
7 . 

1496 
8 . 

/ 1040 
9 . 

11045 
10 . 

/ 1003 
11 . 

11044 
12 . 

11007 


8. Palit , 
Officer on Special Duty , 
Manipur State Transport Dept. 


Impbal :-Printed and published by ihe Superintendent Government Press C. 200 /5-10-55 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


सत्यमेव 


जना 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 32 


Imphal, Wednesday , October 5 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


1 to 2 


Part I. - Appointments, Postings, Transfers, Powers , 

Leave and other personal notices , 
Part II. - Resolutions, Regulations, Ordera , Notifi 

cations, Rules etc. 


Part III.-- Orders, Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Notices eto . 


2 to 4 
5 to 7 


2 


PART I 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 27th September , 1955 . 
No. CA /44 /55-5 . - The Chief Commissioner has been plezsed to order the follow 
ing postings with immediate effect : 

1. Shri S. Gourahari Singh , Offg . Director of Agriculture , Manipur, is appointed 
with immediate effect as Asstt. Socy . ( Dev ) against the post sanctioned under C. C. s 
Order No. F - DPO 40/53/99 dated 4th of May, 1955 . 

2 . On relief by Shri S. Gourahari Singh , Shri Ranbir Singh , Offg . Asstt . Socy . 
( Dev ) is appointed until further orders as Asstt. Secy . (General) against the post 
created under C. C. s Order No. CA /44/55-3 dated 26-9-55 . 


Imphal, the 28th September , 1955 . 
No. Regis 2,854 . - In exercise of the power conferred upon him by Soc. 6 of the 
Indian Registration Act , 1908 , read with Govt. of India , Ministry of States Notifi 
cation No. 124 - J dated 20th September , 1950 and in supersession of the orders 
issued under this Secretariat Order No. Regis / 2 /54 dated 25th of August , 1954, 
the Chief Commissioner is pleased to appoint Shri R. C. Dev Chowdhury , Addl. 
Deputy Commissioner, Manipur as the District Registrar for Manipur until further 
orders . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Guvt . of Manipur. 


Imphal, the 29th September , 1955 . 
No. C HDE / 98 /51: 238 . - The Chief Commissioner has been pleased to appoint Shri 
Ch . Kalachand Singh , B.A. B.T., Shastri temporarily as Headmaster , Johnstone High School 
in the scale of kis . 175-15-250 -EB - 20-350 -EB - 25-400 / - p.m. with effect from the date of 
issue of this orilor terminable at any time without conferring any claim for confirm itioa . 

The above ord » r has been passed in supersession of the Orders contained in this Seore 
tariat Notification No. HDE , 67/54/68 dated the 21st March , 1956 . 

By order , 

T. KIPGEN , 
Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 5 , 1955 . 


Imphal, the 28th September , 1955 . 
No. J/ 14 /55 .-- In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 1:? 

and 39 of 
the Code of Criminal Pruceduro , 1993 , the Chief Commissioner is pleased to invest . 
Shri Gunamani Sinha, Sub - Deputy Collector with the p wers of a Magistrate third 
class within the jurisdiction of the State of Manipur. 

This order shall come into effect from the date of publication in the Manipur 
Gazette , 


Imphal, the 29th September, 19 5 . 
No. R /7 /54- V. - In exercise of the powess vested in him under Sec. 127 of the 
Assam Lani & Revenue Regulation , 1986 , au extenilor! to Manipur, 

to Manipur, the Chief 
Commissioner is pleased to authorise until further orders Sh : i H. Ibungoyima Singhi , 
E. A. C. to exercise the powers of Deputy Commissioner. 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


PART II 

Imphal, the 27th September, 1955 . 
No. CA / 44 /55-3 . — The Chief Commissioner is pleased to sanction the creation of 
a post of Assistant Secretary (General) in thi Manipur Secretariat from the 26th 
of September, 1955 to the 29th of February , 1956 on the sanctioned scale of pay , 
i. e. Rs. 250-250-300 (Con )-23-400 (EB )-25-600-(EB ) -25-650 /-, plus allowances as admis 
sible under the rules. 
2 . 

The expenditure will be met out of the sanctioned budget estimates for the 
year 1965-58 undet 25 General Administration - A1. Chi.f Commissioner - A1(1) –Pay 
öf Officers . 

A. K. Ray, 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


PART II 

Imphal, the 26th September, 1955 . 
No. Try /44 /54 . The following Notification No. F.8 /(39) -B /64 dated 13-7-56 recuived 
from the Govt. of India , Ministry of Financ : is republished for general information . 

H. Ranbir SINGII , 

Asstt . Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 
NOTIFICATION . 

New Delhi, the 13th July , 1955. 
No. F.8 ( 39 ) -B /54 . * It is notified for general iriformation that with effect from the 
1st August 1955, Ten - Year Treasury Savings Deposits, receivable in terms of the notifica 
tion of the Govt. of India in the Ministry of Finance, No. 7 ( ) -13,151, dated the 22nd Jan., 
1951 shall also be recoived at all treasures and sub -treasuries in the States of Saurashtra , 
Rajasthan , Madhya Bharat , Patiala and East Punjab States Union , Hyderabad , Travan 
core- Cochin , Ajmer , Bhopal, Himachal Pradesh , Kutch , Coorg, Manipur and Tripura , at 
places where there is no branch of the State Bank of India and in the case of the State of 
Hyderabad , where there is no branch of the Hyderabad State Bank conducting Government 
treasury business . 

Sd / K. C. DAS 
Under Secretary . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 6 , 1985 . 


3 


3 . 


Imphal, the 29th September , 1955 . 
No. 7.10.FO/Pub/55.-The following documents received from the Govt . of 
India , Ministry of informatijn and Broad casting , New Delhi 2 , aru lepublished for 
general information . 

Gopendra Sarma , 

Publicity Citice Minipur . 
NOTIFICATION 

New Delhi.2 , the 2nd February , 1955 . 
No. 1; 51 /54F : - In pursuance of the Resolution of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. 1 /61 /64 - F , dated the 2nd February , 
1955, the Central Government hereby re-constitutes the Film Advisory B.a , rl , Bombay 
with effect from the 16th Februưry, 1955 and appoints the following as its members 
with effect from the same date : 

1. Chairman , 
Central Board of Film Censors 

Ex - officio Chairman 
2 , Regional Officer , 
Central Board of Film Censors, Bombay 

Ex officio member 
Srimati Leela Jog , 
Member, Bombay Advisory Panel , 

Central Board of Film ( ensors 
4. Dr. D. G. Vyas 
5 . Sri D. N. Marshall 
6 . Sri D. P. Wagle 
7 . Kumari S. Panaudikat 
8 . Sri V. Sbantaram 
9 . Sri Habib Hoosain 

Sd / D. Krishna Ayyar, 

Under Secretary to the Govt. of India . 
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

RESOLUTION 

New Delhi, the 2nd February 1955 . 
No. 1 /51 /54.F. - Whereas the Film Advisory Board has been functioning for recom 
mending documentaries and newsreels produced by the Films Division and by private 
producers for grant of approval certificates with reference to the relevant condition in 
the oinema licences and whereas a direction has now been issued by the Central Govern 
ment under sub - section (4 ) of section 12 of the Cinematogruph Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 
1952), and by the various State Governments under their own Acts, it has been decided 
that the Film Advisory Board should be entrusted with the responsibility of approving 
films which may bo regarded as scientific films, films intended for educational purposes, 
films dealing with news and current events or documentary films with reference to these 
directions . 

2 . The rules governing the working of the Film Advisory Board will be az follows : 
( 1 ) The Board shall consist of not less than soven members , to be appointed by 
the Contral Government, as follows : 

(a ) Chairman of the Central Board of Film ( onsors— Ex -Officio Chairman . 
(b ) Regional Officer of the Central Board of Film Censors , Bombay - Ex 

Officio member . 
(c ) A member of the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors 

at Bombay . 
(d ) Not less than four other members including an educational and two 

persons with knowledge of films and film making . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 5 , 1968. 


Explunation . - " Regional Officer” includes “ Additional Regional Officer" and " Assistant 
Regional Officer " . 


(2 ) Members other than the ex -officio members and the member of the Advisory 
Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors , Bombay, shull by appointed for a period of 
two years and will be eligible for re -appointment. The member of the Advisory Panel 
shall be appointed as a member of the Board for the full term of his membership of the 
Panel . 


( 3 ) The Guvernment of India may for it Oruse sufficient in its opinion , rem ve any 
murber of the Board bufore the expiration of the period of his office . 

(4 ) The non -ufficial members of the Board will work in an honorary c.ipacity . They 
may be paid such compensatory allowance as the Central Government may from time 
to time determina . 


(6 ) Tbe Regional Officer of the Central Board of Film Censors at Bombay will be 
the Secretary of the Board . 


(6 ) No act or proceeding of the Board shall be called in question on the ground 
merely of the existence of any Vacancy in or defect in the constitution of the Board . 


( 7 ) Unless otherwise directed by the Government of India , the Headquarters of the 
Board shall be at Bombay , 


(8 ) Meetings of the Board shall be presided over by the Chairman , and , in his 
absence the members present may elect one among themselves to preside . 


( 9 ) The quorum of the Board shall be three . 


( 10 ) The decision of the Board shall be that of the majority of the members attend 
ing the meeting and in the event of an equality of votes, the presiding officer shall 
have a second or casting vote. The decision of the Board shall be firal. If any appli 
cant wants to miiko any representation in regard to the film submitted by bin , however , 
the Board shall give him an opportunity to do so and it shall be open to the Board 
to revise their decision in the light of any such representation . 

(11 ) The Board shall be ordinarily meet every week for the purpose of approving 
films as scientific films, films intended for educational purposes , films dealing with 
news and current events or doc inentary films in terms of the directions issued by the 
Government of India under sub -section ( 4 ) of seciion 12 of the Cinematograph Act, 1962 
(XXXVII of 1952) and any similar directions issued by the State Governments. 

(12) Any person , firm , organisation or Government desirous of having any of his 
or its films approved by the Board shall send an application in writing to the Secretary 
of the Board stating the title of the film and the s jurc , from which it can be obtained 
by the exhibitors and such other particulars as may be raquired by the Board . 

(13) The Board will communicate the titles and subje sts of the films approved by 
them , together with the informition rogurling the sources from which they can be 
obtained , to the Central Government. The titles of the films certified to be scientific 
films, films intended for educational purposes , films dealing with news 

and current 
events or documentary films by the Central Government , with the approval of the film 
Advisory Board , will be notified in the Gazette of India together with the address from 
which they can be obtained . 

P. M.LAD , Secy . 


MANIPUR ZETTE , OCTOBER 4 , 1950 


10 


BART W 

Imphal, the oth September, 1855 . 
, No. SHRE / 197 155/5 . --- It tas been decided that an examination for selecting of 
apdidates for admission in the Indian Lpstitute of Technology ķharazpur ing the 
956-57 Session will be held at Imphal for the convenience of candidates frong thing 
tate . It will be held sometime in April or May , 1956 under the Officership in charge 
f the Inspector of Schools , Manipur. 

The voque the dates and other particulars of the examination will be notified 
i due course . 

T. KIPGEN , 
Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


Imphal, the 30th Sept. 55 . 
No. V. 7. PRESS PUB /55.- The an indel programme of A.R.M. & rea compensation 
published for general information . 

Gopendra Sharma , 

Publicity Officer, Manipur. 
Payment programme of A.R.M. arca compensation in respect of Mao Maram 
Circle , issued under this Office No. 672 /Claims dated 12-9-56 

has been amended as below . 
lace of payment. S. No. Name of village 

Dęto 
Larong 

1 . 

Ngawar 
2 . 

Sadim Pukhri 
3 . 

Phailenkot 
4 . 

Thangjum 
5 . 

Karong 
6 . 

Salsi 
7 . Ngamcha 

4.10.55 
8 . 

Yangnoi 
3 . 

Phoibung Kuki 
10 . 

Luybangphung 
11 . 

Khamaron 
12 . 

Wasbangphung 
13 . 

Chalbang 
( aram 

14 . Makhan 

6.10.45 . 
15 . 

Khongnem 
15 . 

Tingsong 
17 

Oklong 
1ş . Thingba Khulen 

6.10.56 
19 . 

Wilong 
20 . 

Maramo 
21. 

Yangkbulen 
22 . Thingba Khunou 

7.10 : 55 
29 . 

Qiņam 
Fadubi 

24 . 

Ngriri 
25 , Lakhamei 

8.10.55 
26 . 

Phuba 
27 . 

Chiongmei Khungu 
28 . Tunggam 

21.10.55 . 
29 . 

Maiba 
30 . Sarapamei 

10.10.55 
31. 

Tungjoi 


+ 


Mai 


} 


W. Gouro Singh , 

S.D.C. Claims. 


8 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 5 , 1965 . 


TENDER NOTICE . 


Imphal, the 28th September , 1955 . 
Sealed tenders are invited for the supply of the following articles . Tenders will be 
received by the undersigned upto 16th Oct., 1955. Full particulars can be had from the 
office during office hours . 

10 % of the accepted amount will have to be deposited as caution money by the 816 
cessful tenderer on the very day of signing the agreement which will be a refunded after 
completion of supply and acceptance by the undersigned . There is no obligation to accept 
the lowest tender or any tender and t :) assign any reason thereof. 


List of articles . 


1 . 


Slays . 

( i) 7 :? " reed space . 


( ii) 64 " 
( iii ) 56 " 
(iv ) 52" 
( v ) 60" 
( vi) 40 " 


12 Nos. 
12 
120 
34 


12 


> 


6 
196 


. 


2 . 


Total 
24 


12 
12 


Bamboo reeds 
Oount of Reed & size . 

1208 x 40 " 
1208 x 66 " 
1008 x 56 " 
1008 x 58 " 
808 x 40 " 
728 x 52 " 
648 x 50 " 
688 x 24 " 
408 x 64 " 
408 x 56 " 
488 x 56 " 
448 x 56 " 
366 x 56 " 


24 
12 
24 
36 


24 
12 


12 


24 
12 


. 


12 


240 


Gopendra Sharma , 
Publicity Officer, Manipur. 


Notice No. 588 - HE . 


Imphal, the 29th Aug. 1955 . 
No. B.HE /4/ 55 / 100-1. - In acoordance with the provision laid down in para (2 ) schedule & of the Indian 
Electricity Act , 1910 ( Act IX of 1910 ) it is notified to the electric consumers that the following 
revised rates of charges for domestic use shall come into effect from 1st August , 1955 . 


Gross per 


Rebate per 


Net , per 


unit . 


unit . 


1 - IT 


unit . 
- /6 / 


Light & fan ( from domestic purposes ). 

-17 / 
Other charges will continue to be the same as before . 


-/ 1 / 


T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 5 , 1958 . 


7 


NOTICE. 

KHADI-HUNDIES 

Imphal, the 3rd October , 1958 . 
No. K /IN -23/55 .-- Khadi-Hundies of the Denomination Rs . 21- 67- 10/- 25 /- 50 / 
and 100 /- aro available for purchase during business hours at all post offices upto 31st 
March 1956. These hundies are used for the purpose of purchasing Khadi from any 
recognised sale depot at place in India , but not for any other purpose . These will be 
current for a period of six months following the month in which they wre issued and should 
be redeemed on or beforo 30th Sept. , 1956 . 

On the occassion of the inauguration ceremony of Khadi- Huddi sale by synchronising 
with the Gandhi Juyanti Day on Sunday the 2nd Oct. , 1955 Imphal Post Office will be 
kept open specially for the purpose of sale of Kbadi-Hundies to the willing customers 
from 10 to 16 hours . 

H. RANBIR SINGH , 
Assistant Secretary , (Gel). 


Imphal, the 29th September , 1955 . 
No. 3525 /57 /VD /55.- Sealed tenders are invited for the purchase of the following 
lorries belonging to Manipur State Transport in as is where is condition . The per 
mits are non - transferable and the purchasers do not become entitled to the permite 
on the purchase of the vehicles . Tenders should be accompanied by a bank draft 
for Rs . 100 / -in favour of the Manager , Manipur State Transport, which will be trea 
ted as earnest money . The vehicles will be available for inspection at Imphal during 
office hours by arrangement with the Manager. Tenders should be received before 
5.00 P. M. on 16th October , 1955 . 


FORD TRUCKS 
1. M. N. S. 1881 
2 . 

/ 383 
3 . 

1393 
4 . 

11690 
5 . 

/ 1691 


CHEVROLET TRUCKS 

1 . M. N. S. / 163 
2 . 

1201 
3 . 

1279 
4 . 

/ 2682 
5 . 

1357 
6 . 

1476 
7 . 

1496 
8 . 

/ 1040 
9 . 

/ 1045 
10 . 

/ 1003 
11 . 

11044 
12 . 

11007 


9 ) 


>> 


09 


8. Palit , 
Offioer on Special Duty , 
Manipur State Transport Dept. 


Impbal :-Printed and published by ihe Superintendent Government Press 0. 200 5-10-55. 


सधवजय 


Manipur 


Gazette 


- 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 33 


Imphal, Wednesday , October 12 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Part I. - Appointments, Postings , Transfors, Powers, 

Leave and other personal notices, 
Part 11. - Resolutions, Regulations , Orders , Notifi 

cations, Rules otc . 


1 


Page 
Part III . - Orders , Notifications, Rules of 
the Government of India , 

3 to 13 
Part IV . Advertisements and Noticos ato . 14 to 19 


2 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner , 

Imphal, the 26th September , 1955 . 
No. R /68 /51/ 131. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 133 of the 
Assam Land and Revenue Regulation , 1886 as extended to Manipur , the Chief 
Commissioner is pleased to appoint the following S. D. C.8 as Assistant Settlement 
Officers with effect from the dates indicated against each : -- 

1. Shri A. Helim Ahmed Chowdhury , 8. D. C., Thoubal from 15.6-5ñ . 
2 , R. K. Mani Singh , S. D. C., I. W. from 18-8-55 . 


Imphal, the 26th September, 1955 . 
No. R /68 /51/ 133. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 133 of the 
Assam Land and Revenue Regulation , 1886 as extended to Manipur , the Chief 
Commissioner is pleased to appoint the following S. D. C.s as Assistant Settlement 
Officers with effect from the dates indicated against eucb : 

1. Shri R. K. Birendra Singh with effect from 15-9-51. 
2 . M. Radheshyam Singh with effect from 12-10-53. 


Imphal, the 26th September, 1955 . 
No. R /68 /51/ 132. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 107 of the 
Assam Land and Revenue Regulation 1980 as extended to Manipur and in conti 
nuation of this Seoretariat Order No. R /68 /51/ 131 dated 19-9-55 , the Chief Commis 
sioner is pleased to invest the following Assistant Settlement Officers with all the 
powers of a Deputy Commissioner , under Sections 6 :1 and 70 of the said Regulation 
as also under Chapter VI of Part I of the same for the periods indicated against 
each : 

1. Shri A. Helim Ahmed Chowdhury , S. D. C., Thoubal from 16-6-56 till 

further orders . 
2. Shri R. K. Mani Singh 8. D. C. , I. W. from 18-8-56 till further orclere . 


A. K. Ray , 
Chiet Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 12 , 1966 . 


Or 


any, for 


( a ) a sum bearing to half the amount by which the total income ( before deduction of 

the allowance for earned income ) Axceeds Re. 4,200 /- the same proportion as such 

reduced total income bears to the unreduced total income ; 
(b ) the income-tax payable on the income 80 reducard at the rates specified above wbich 

ever is less 
( iv ) ( a ) no surcharge shall be payable on a tutil income , which before reduction of the 
allowance , if 

oa rued income, dues not exread the limit Rs. 7,200 ; 
(b ) the purcharge payable shall in me case ( xrpcdd half the amount by which the trta ! 

if 
income ( before delurtion of the sail wilowance , for earned income ) exceeds 

any , 
the said limit , 
(6 ) The allowance for " earned income" on incomes upto Rs . 25,000 /- is one- fifth of ench 
earned income, subject to a maximum of Rs. 4,010). In the case of enrned income exceeding 
Rs. 25,000 /-, the earned income allowance is to be computer hy seducting froin Px . 4,000 , 
one fifth of the amount by which the paruud income escoeds Rs . 25,000 / - . 

(c ) The rebate of incoine -tax on account of life insuranee premi:, provident fund contri · 
butions etc , is now admissible up to a maximum of one fifth of the total income, before deduction of 
the allowance for earned income or Rs. 8,00 :1 whichever is less . In the case of insurance pre 
mium the amount on which rebate is admissible wall not e-Sceol 10 % , of the actual ( apital suin 
& fuured . 

(d ) No abatement is to be allowed by the persons responsible for paying the salary in 
respect of any donations for charitable purposes , which are exempt under Auction 15B . 
2. The new rates of super -tax 

are as below : 
Rate 

Surcharge 
1 . On the first Rs. 20,000 Nil 

Nil 
of total income. 
2. On the next Rs. 5,000 

One anna in tho rupee . One-twentieth of the rate speci 
of total income. 

fied in the preceding column . 
3 . On the next R * . 15,000 

Three annas in the rupee . 

Do 
of total income. 
4 . On the next Rs. 10,000 

Fivo andas in the rupee . 

Do. 
of total income . 
On the next Itx . 10,000 

Six annas in the rupos . One -twentieth of the rato 
of total income , 

specifica in the preceding 

column. 
6 . On the next Rx . 20,000 

Seven anles in the rupoc . 

10 . 
of total income . 
7 . On the next HX 20,000 

Eight annan in the rupee . 
of total income . 
8 On the next 2x 50,000 

Nine anns in the rupee . 
of total income. 
9. Ori the balance of 

Nine and a half annas 

Do. 
total income. 

The distinction between warned and unearned incomo is not applicable to super-tax cum 
putations. 

8. The following examples illustrate the calculation of Income-tax and super- tax where due 
Example 1 . 

Rs . 
Pay and allowances for the year . 

4,220 
Here condition No. (iii ) mentioned in para i 

1 coines into operation . 
A. Tax payable on the basis of (iii ) (a ) above 
Total income ( whole of which is cerned incomo, being chargeable 
“ salaries " ) 

4,220 
Doduct allowance for earned income ( one- fifth of 4,220 ) 

844 


5 . 


Do , 


Jo , 


in the rupee 


. 


88 


Reduced total income 


3,376 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 12 , 1958 . 


Half the 


excess over Rs . 4200 = 20 : 2 = 10 


0 


10 x 3,376 
The proportionate lax payable on Rs . 3,376 would be Rs . 

- Rs . 8 . 

4,220 
Tax payable on the basis of (ii) (6 ) above 

Ry , A. P. 
B (0) In the case of a married person 
On the first Rs . 2,000 

Nil. 
On the next Rs 1,376 ( R $ 3370-2000 ) at 9 pies in the 

rupee . 64 

8 0 
( ii ) In the case o ; an unmarried person 
On the first Rs. 1,000 

Nil 
On the next Rx 2,370 ( Rs. 3376-1000 ) at ! pics per rupee 

lul 6 0 
( No surcharge is leviable in the case ). 
In accordance with the condition quotod abuye , the income-tax actually recoverable in 
Cenes of both married and unmarried persons in on the baris of “ A ” which works out to 
a lower figure, riz . Ks. 8 for 

8 for the whole year . 
The maximum rebate of income- lax for insurance preiniu , I rovident Fund contributions 
etc., in the above example would be on Rs. 844 is one 

one fifth of Rs . 1,220 . 

8 X 844 
The rubate works ont at Pix 

Rs . 2 0 0 

3376 
80 that the net tax payable is Rs . 0-0-0 . 
Example II 


Bus . 


Pay and allowances for the year 
Deduct allowances for earned income ( one fifth ) . 


4,400 
880 


8,520 


Reduced total income 
A. Txx on the basis of (iii ) (a ) 
Half the excess over Rs. 4,200 ( 4400-4200 ) = 200 : 2 = 100 . 

100 x 3,520 
Proportionate tax payable on Rs . 3,520 would be Rs . 

= Rs . 80 . 


4,400 


Nil . 


Nil. 


Tax on the basis of ( iii) (6 ) -- 
B. (i) In the cuse of a married person. 

Rs. 

A. P. 
On the first Rs . 2,000 
On the dext Rs. 1,520 ( RR . 3520–2000 ) at 9 pies in the rupee 

71 4 0 
(ii) In the case of an unmarried person 
On the first Rs 1,000 
On the next Ks. 2,520 ( Rs . 
2,520 ( Rs. 3,520—1000 ) at 9 pies in the rupee 

118 2 0 
( No sur charge is leviable in this case ) . 

In this case the tax actually recoverable is Rs. 71-1-0 [ i.e., on the basis of B ( ) 
in the case of a married prrson and Rs . 80 ( ie , on the basis of A ) in the case of an 
unmarried person . 

On incomes exceeding Rs 1,200 but not exceeding Rs. 4,375 in the cases of married 
persons and As 

4,505 in the cases of. unmarried persons the tax on the basis of ( A ) 
works out to a lower figure and should be allopted while on income exceeding Rs . 4,375 
in the case of married persons and Rs. 4,505 in the case of unmarried persons , tax should 
bo calculated on the basis section B (i) and 3 ( ii ) respectively , 
Example III 

Rs . 

Rs . 
Monthly pay and allowunces 

600 
Yearly income 

7,200 
Insurance Premia and Provident Fund Contributions 

2,000 
Total Income 

7,200 
Less allowance for earned income ( one fifth ) 

1,440 


Red uced total income 


5,760 


WANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 17 , 1968 . 


I. 


(e ) In the case of a married person . 


Income - tex 


Bato 
Ni) . 


Nil. 


On the first Hx . 2,000 
On the next HX 3,000 
On the next Ix . 


140 


10 


a 


Nine pins in the rupee . 
One anda and nine pies in the rupee . 


760 


83 


2 


0 


5,760 


Total ter 


223 


12 0 


No surcharge is loviable . 


( ii ) In the case of an unmarried person . 


Rate 


Income tax 

Nil 


On the first Re . 1,000 
On the next Rx 4,000 
On the noxt He 760 


Nil 
Nine pies in the rupee . 
One aona and bino pies in the rapee . 


187 8 0 
83 2 

2 0 


5,760 


Total tax , 


270 10 0 


No surcharge is loviable . 
The total income on which rebate of income- tax and income- tax surcharge in respect of 
insurance premia , providont fund contributions etc. is admissible is restricted to one fifth 
of the total income ( before deduction of allowance for earned income ). In this example , 
rebate can , therefore , be given in respect of insurance promia , eto., upto a maximum of Rs 
1,440 ( une fifth of Rs. 7,200 ). The maximum rebate works out to Rs . 55-15-0 and 87-10-0 
according as the person is married or unnar ed 

as indicated below : 


In the case of u married person . 


Hr . 


223-12 x 1440 


55 15 

15 0 


167 


5,760 
Net tax payable for the year 
Tax to be deducted monthly from salary 
In the case of an unmarried 2 erson . 

270-10 x 1440 


13 0 
0 0 


17 


67 10 0 


5,760 
Net tax payable for the year 

203 0 0 
Tax to be deducted from salary every month 

10 15 

0 
( In the last month the . 16-11-0 only should be recovered ) . 
Note. It will be noticed from the examples IB , IIB , and III that the income- tax in 
the onse of an unmarried person is Ite : 46-14-0 more than in the case of a married person 
in receipt of the same income. In the latter examples inoomo-tax in the case of married 
persons only has been computed and the gross tax ( i.e, before giving any rebate ) in the 
oase of unmarried persuns may bo arrived at by adding Rs . 46-14-0 to the amount of Income 
tax computed in the case of married persons. The unmarried persons will be ontitled to 
correspondingly higher abatement account of insurance premium , provident fund contribution etc. 


Example IV . 


Rs . 


Rs , 


602 


Monthly pay and allowancer 
Yearly income 
Insurance premia and Provident fund contributions 
Total income 
Legs allowance for earned income ( one- fifth ) 


7,224 
2,000 


7,224 
1,445 


Reduced total income 


5,779 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OOTOBER 12, 1956 . 


7 


In the case of a married person . 


On the first Rs. 
On the next Rs . 
On the next Re . 


2,000 
3,000 

779 


Rate 

Nil 
9 pies per rupec 
- / 1 / 9 pies poor rupes 


Income- tax 

Nil. 
140 10 0 
85 3 0 


5,779 Income Tax 


225 


13 


0 


Surcharge at one twentieth of income tax 


11 


5 


0 


Total tax 


237 


2 


0 


[ In case the income had been below Rs. 7222 but above Rs. 7,200 surcharge would 
have been limited to one twentieth of half the excess over Rs . 7,200 ) . 

The total incomo on which rebate of income - tax and incomemtax surcharge in respect of 
insurance premia , provident fuod contributions is admissible is limited to Rs . 1,445 ( one 
fifth of Rs. 7,224 ). The maximum rebate works out at : 

Re . 
225-13 x 1445 

Income- tax 

56 7 0 
Income - tax 

5,779 
11-5 * 1445 

Surcharge 

2 13 
Surcharge 

5,779 
Vet tax payable for the year 

Income- tax 

169 6 0 
Surcharge 

8 0 


0 


8 


177 14 0 
Tax to be delucted from salary every month Income-tax 

14 2 0 
Surcharge 

0 11 

n 
Note : In the case of an unmarried perron the amount of income- tax payable would 
increase by Rs . 40-14-0 and that of surcharge on income- lax by 1 / 20th of this amount. 
The amount of abatement of income-tax and income-tax surcharge in respect of provident 
fund contributions, life insurance premia , etc. would be proportionately higher. 
Example V. 

Rs . 

Rs. 
Monthly pay and allowance 

620 
Yearly income 

7,440 
Insurance premia , etc. 

2,000 
Total income 

7,440 
Le88- Eurned income allowance 

1,488 


Reduced total incupie 


5,952 


In the case of a married person . 


Rate 


Income- tar 


A8 . 


PB . 


Rs. 
Nil 


On the first Rs . 
On the next Re . 
On the next Rs . 


2,000 
3,000 

952 


10 


Nil 
Nine pies per rupee 
One anna and nine pies 
por rupee , 


140 
104 


0 
0 


2 


5,952 


24.4 


12 


0 


12 


Surcharge @ 1 / 20th of Rs. 244-12-0 
( This is less than 1 / 20th of 1/2 
the excess over Rs. 7,200 , i, e. , Re, 120 ). 


0 


Total tax 


257 


0 


0 


8 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 12 , 1966 . 


AS . 


CO 


The total income 

on which rebate of incoine -tax and income- tax surcharge in respeot 
of insurance premia , provident funil contribution is admissible is limited to Rs. 1,488 
( one -fifth of Rs. 7,4-10 ) . The amount of maximuin rebate admissible works out as under : 

Rs . 

PÅ . 
244-12 x 1,458 
Income- tax 

61 

0 
5,912 
12-4 x 1,488 

0 
Surcharge 

3 1 
5,952 
Net tax payable for the year : 
lucome tax 

183 
Surcharge 

3 0 


0 


9 


Total 


192 12 


0 


AS . 


0 


Tax to be deducted from salary every month 

RS . 

PS 
Income - tax 

13 5 
Surchargo 

12 0 
( Rogariling income-tax and income tax surcharge payuble by an unmarried person , pleuse see 
the noto at the end of Example IV ) . 
Example VI . 

Rs. 
Monthly pay and allowanco 

1,250 
Yearly income 

15,000 
Insurance Premia and Provident Fund Contribution 

2,800 
Total income 

15,000 
LP88 allowance for earned income ( one fifth ) 

3,000 
Reducod total incomie , 

12,000 


Rs. 


In the case of a married person . 


Rate 


Income - lax 


Rs. 


AS . 


IS 


On the first . Rs. 
On the next 18 . 
On the next Rs. 


2,000 
3,000 
2,500 


Nil . 
140 
273 


10 


0 


7 


0 


On the next Ha . 


2,500 


351 


O 


0 


Nil. 
Nine pies por rupee 
Ono Anna and nine 

pies per rupeo . 
Two annas and thrco 
pies per rupee . 
Three annak three 
pies per rupee . 
Income- tax 
Surchargo @ 1/20 


On the next Rx. 


2,000 


406 


+ 


0 


12.000 


14 


1,171 

58 


0 
0 


9 


1001 


Total tax 


1,230 


0 


1 


AB 


PR . 


The total income on which robate of income-tax and income-tax guicharge in respect of 
insurance premia , provident fund contributions , etc. is admissiblo is restrioted to one - fifth of 
the total income (before deduction of allowance for earned income) or to Rx . 8,000 whichever 
is less . In this example, rebate can be given upto a maximum of RR. 3,000 ( one- fifth of 
Px . 15,000 . The rebate works out as under : 
1171-14 x 3000 

Rs . 
12,000 

Income- tax 

298 

0 0 
58-8 x 3,000 
Surcharge 

14 
12,000 

10 
Net tax payable for the year : 

Income-tax 

878 14 0 
Surchargo 

43 15 0 
Total 

922 13 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 12, 1986 . 


9 


Tax to be deducted from salary every month : 


Rs . As . PF . 


73 


Inoomo- tax 
Surcharge 


4 0 
10 0 


3 


( Regarding Income-tax and Inrome-tax surcharge payable by an unmarried person , please see 

note at the end of Example 1V ). 
Example VI 

Rs . 
Monthly pay : salary 

1,200 
Dearness allowance 

100 
Other allowances 

100 


::: 


1400 


Yearly income 


16,800 


Value of rent free unfurnished residence at 10 per cent of pay and 
allowance other than dearness allowance viz . Rs. 15,600 . 


1,560 


Total income 


18,360 


Deduct earned incomu Allowance 


3,672 


14,688 


Reduced total income 
In the case of a married person . 


Rate per Rupee 


Incomo- tax 


Rs. 


Rs . 


As . 


Pg . 


10 


On the first 
On the next 
On the next 
On the next 
On the balance of 


2,000 
3,000 
2,500 
2,500 
4,685 


Nil 
9 pies 
l anna 9 pies 
2 annas 3 pies 
3 annas 3 pies 


Nil 

140 
273 
351 
952 


0 
0 


7 


9 


0 


4 0 


Total Rs. 14,688 


Income- tax 
Surcharge @ 1 / 20th 


1,717 14 0 
65 

14 0 


Total tax 


1,803 12 


The total income on which rebate of income tax and incomo- tax surcharge on #coount 
of insurance premia , proviilent fund contribution , ctc . is admissible is limited to Ps. 3,672 ( one 
fifth of Rs . 18,360 ) . 


Rebate 


1,717-14 x 3672 


Iacome- tex 


429 


P 
0 


8 


14688 
85-14 x 3672 


Surchargem 


21 


8 0 


11088 


Net tax payable for the year : 
Income- tax 

1,288 6 0 
Surcharge 

84 6 0 
Tax to be deducted from salary every month : 
Income- tax 

107 6 0 
Surcharge 

5 
( Regarding Income- tax and Incomu-tas surcharge payalle by an unmarried person please 
see the note at the end of Example IV . ) 


6 


0 


10 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OOTOBER 12 , 


NOTE -- In cases in which the total income before deduction of earned imoome allowance 
does not exceeil Pix . 20,000 and is wholly earned and where the maximum rebate on account 
of life insurance premia or /and Provident Fund Contributions at 1 /5th of total income is admi. 
fsible , the amount of rebate comes to 1/ 4th of income-tax and surcharge . Thus in the above ) 
example income- tax rebate on Ks. 3672 is 1 /4th of Rs . 1717-11 42:9-8 aud surcharge rebate on 
HR, 3672 ir 3 / 4th of Is . 85-14--21-8 . 
Example VIII 

Rs . 
Monthly pay and allowances 

2,000 
Total income 

24,000 
Deduct allowance for carned income ( maximun admissible ) . 

4,100 


! 


Reduced totul income 


20,000 


A. Income-tax .. 
In the case of a married person 


Rate ( per rupee ) 


On the first Rs . 2,000 
On the next Rs. 3,000 
On the next Ks . 2,500 
On the next R $ 2,500 
On the next Rs . 5,000 
On the next Rs . 5,000 


7 


Income- lax 
R. A. P. 

Nil 
140 10 0 
273 

0 
351 8 
1,015 10 0 
1,250 0 


Nil 
Nine pies 
One anna and pine pies 
Two annas and nine pies 
Three annan and three pics 
Four annes 


0 


Total Rx . 20,000 


4 


0 


Total income-lex 
Surcharge @ 1/200 h 


3,081 

157 


0 


Total tax 


3,182 130 


The total income on which rebate of income-tax and income-tax surcharge on account of 
insurance premia , provident fund contributions , etc., is admissible is limited to Rs . 4,800 (one 
fifth of Rs . 24,000 ), 

4800 x 303 ] -4 
20,000 

Income- tax Rs. 727-0-0 
4800 x 15 ) -9 
20,000 

Surcharge Rs , 30-0-0 
Net tax payable for the year : 
Income tax Rx . 

2,303 14 0 
Surcharge Rs . 

115 0 
Tax and Income - tax to be 

deducted from salary evory 
inonth : Income-tax Px . 

192 0 0 
Surcharge Rs. 

9 0 
[Regarding Income- tax and Income- tax Surcharge payable by an unmarried person please see 
the note at the end of Example IV .) 
B. Super - tax. 

Re . A. P. 
On the first lis , 20,000 of total income 

Nil 

Nil 
On the next Rs . 4,000 

One anna per rupee . 

250 0 0 

250 0 0 
Surcharge 

12 

8 0 


9 


¡ Super-tax and Super -tax surcharge to be 
deducted from salary every month : 

Super -tax 
Surcharge 


20 


2:3 


0 
0 


1 


Tatal 


14 


0 


[ There is no distinction between married and unmarried persons as regards lovy, of super- my .] 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 12 , 1955 . 


11 


Example IX 


Ke . 


2,000 


Monthly pay salary 
Allowances 


:: 


... 


Total 


300 
2,300 
27,000 

3,150 
31,050 


Yearly 

income 
Value of rent free furnished residence at 1: 1 uf pay and allowances . 

Total income 


Le88 Earned Income allowance : 
1 /5th of Rs . 31,050 subject to navinum of Rs. 4,000 . 
Further deduct 1 /oth of the exress of tota ) 

income on Rs . 25,000 i.e. 1/ 5th 
( 81,050 — 25,000 ) = 1210 

Reduced total Income 
A , Income- tax 
In the case of a married porroll . 

Kate per rupee , 


2,790 
28,260 


Income- tax 


Rs . 


P. 


Nil 
10 


140 


0 


2733 


7 


0 


On the first Rs. 2,000 
On the next Rs . 3,000 
On the next Rs . 2,300 
( u the next Rx . 2,500 
On the vext Rs . 5,000 
On the balance of Rx . 13,200 


Nil. 
O pies 
One anda and I pics 
Tw ) annas anil s pies 
Three annas and 3 pies 
Four annas 


9 


0 


3.11 
1,015 
3,315 


0 


10 
0 


0 


+ 


0 


28,260 


Incomo- tax 
Surcharge @ 1 / 20th 


5,096 

254 


13 


0 


The total income on which reliste of income-tax and income-tax surcharga on account 
of insurance premia , provident fund contributions, etc , in silmissible is limited to Its . 6,210 
( one- fifth of Rs. 31,030 ). 

Rebate 
5096-5 x 6210 

Re. 
Iocume- tux 

7,019 
31050) 


aa 


= 


4 


:50 


13 


0 


231-13 x 6210 
Surcharge 

31030 
Net tax payable : 

Incone - tax 
Surcharge 


... 


4,077 0 

203 14 


o 
0 


339 


Income- tax and Income- tax surcharge to be deducted from salary every month : 

Income- tax 
Surcharge 


. 


12 
0 


17 


0 


( Regarding lucome-ta . an Income tax surchargo payable by an unmarried person please 
see the note ut tie end of the example IV .] 


Rato 

Per rupeo 


Super -tax 


Nil. 


Super -tax 
Hx . 

P. 
Nil . 
312 8 0 
1,086 

O 


1 


On the first RX. 20,000 
On the next Rs. 5,000 
On the next Rr . 6,050 


anna 


3 811 088 


0 


Super -tax 
Surcharge @ 1 / 20th 


1,396 14 

69 13 


12 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 12 , 1986 . 


7 


Super- tax and super-tax surcharge to be cleclucted from sulary every month : 

Super.tax 

116 0 
Surcharge 

5 13 
( There is no distinction lietweer inarried and unmarried persons for the levy of super-tax . ) 


0 


:: 


10 0 


::: 


Exumple X 

Re . 

3,500 
Monthly pay and allowance s 

42,000 
Yearly total income 
Lr189 Earural Income Allowance 13th of the Toxable 

Income fubject to maximum of Rs. 1,000 
Furtier deduct 1 /5th of the excess of Rs . 12,000 

600 
river Rs. 25,000 1.7 ., 1 /5th of Kx , 17,000 31000 
Reduceal total income 

41,400 
A. Income- tair 
the rage of a married officer 
Rate per Rupice 

Rs . A. P. 
On the first Re , 2,000 Nil 

Nil 
On the next Re , 3,000 Nine pics 

110 
On the next Re , 2,500 One annu nine pies 

278 

7 0 
(On the next RH . 2,500 Two annus and three pics 

351 90 
On the next Rs . 5,000 Thee aunas and three pict , 

1,015 10 0 
On the balance 
of Rs.26,400 Four Dunaf 

6,600 00) 
Rs. 11,400 Total Income- tax 

8,381 4 0 
Surcharge @ 1 / 20th 

419 1 0 

8,800 5 0 
The total income on which rehate of income -tax and income tax surcharge in respeot of 
insurance prernia , provident fund coutributions , etr., is admissible is limited to Rs. 8,000 only 
As the 1 /5th of the total inoome riz , RF , 8,400 exceods Rs. 8,000 . 
8381-4 * 8000 

Rs. A , ! . 
locomcwta 

1,619 90 
-1.1400 

419—1x 8000 
Surcharge 

80 15 0 
-14 :00 
Net income- tax payable 

Income- ta : 

6761 il 0) 
Suicharge 

338 

20 
Income tax and Income- tax surcharge 
to be deducted froni salary every month . 

Income- tax 

503 8 0 
Surcharge 

28 30 
(Regarding Income- tax and Income- tax surcharge payable by au unmarried person ploase 
see the note at the end of Example IV .) 
B. Super - ta . 

Rate (por rupec ) 

Rs . 
On the first Rs . 20,000 

Nil 
On the next Rs . 1,000 

One Anna 

312 8 0 
On the next Rr . 15,000 

Three annar 

2,812 8 0 
On the balance Rs . 2,000 

Fivo annas 

025 0 0 


P. 


:: 


::: 


42.000 Total super - tax 

3,750 0 0 
Surchargo @ 1 /20th 

187 8 0 
Super -tax aud super -tax 
surcharge to be deducted 

Super -tax 

812 8 0 
from : enlary every month 

Surcharge 

15 10 0 
( There is no distinction between married and unmarried persons for levy of super - tax . ) 
Example XI 

Rs . 
Monthly pay and allowances 

4,000 
Yearly income 

48,000 


.. 


Total income 


48,000 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 12 , 1965 . 


13 


A. 


0 


:::: 


so 


( 


2 


( ) 


0 


Less Eained Income Allowance 1/ 5th of the Taxable income 
subject to maximnin of Rs . 4,000 
Further derluct 1 / 5th of the excess of Rs . 48,000 over 
Rs. 25,000 i.e., 1 /5th of 23,000 subject to maximum 
of Rs . 1,000 Rs. 4,000 

Nil 
Reduced total income 

48,000 
NOTk.- Allowanco for carned income stops completely when the eained income reacher Rn. 15,100 . 
A. Income- tax . 
In the case of a murried personu 

Rate of Amount of 
income.tax tax 
per ropee 
Re, A. P. 

Rs. 
First Rs. 2,000 of income 

Nil 

Nil 
Next Re , 3,000 of income 

0 . 

110 10 0 
Next Rs. 2,500 of incomo 

273 7 () 
Next Rs . 2,710 of income 

0 2 3 

351 

0 3 
Next Rs. 5,000 of income 

3 1,00 : 10 
Balance of income Rs . 33,000 

0 4 () 

8,250 0 0 
Total incorne- ( 138 

10,0314 0 
Surcharge @ 1 / 20th 

501 
The total income on which rebate of income-tax and income-lax furcharge on account of life 
jufurance premia , provident fund contribntion otc ., is silmissible is limited to the maximum of 
Rs . 8,000 , 

Relate 
10031-8000 

RE . 
Incomic -tax 

1,671 13 
48000 
501-9x 8000 

83 

0 
Surcharge 

48000 
Net Incoine -tax payable Income- tax 

8:33 ) 0 
Surcharge 

418 0 
Income-tax and Income-tax surcha rge to be deducted from falary every inouth : 
Income- tax 

096 10 0 
Surcharge 

34 13 0 
(Regarding Income-tax and Income- tax surcharge payable by an unmarried person please see 
the note at the end of Example IV . ] 
B. Super -tax 

Rate per rupee 

Amount 

Rs . 
On the first Rr . 200,000 

Nil 

Nil 
( ne anna 

312 8 
5,000) 

0 
On the next Rs . 

Three annAS 
On the next Rr . 1.1,000 

2,812 8 

Five annan 
8,000 

2,500 0 0 
Ou the next Rs . 

Total super -lax 

5,625 0 0 
Surcharge @ 1 / 20th : 281 0 


A. 


P. 


( 


7 


0 


A. 


L. 


() 


Super- tax and fuper- taa surcharge to be d : ducted from falary every Month : 

Rs. 

P. 
Super - tax 

468 12 0 
Şurcharge 

23 7 0 
[Thero is no distinction between inarried and unmarried persons for the levy of super- tex ] 

5 . In casca where there lug already been any excessivo or deficient deduction the necessary adjust 
ment cau be mado by to disbursing officer against paymunts inade thereafter during the current 
financial year . 

6. I am to request that the necessary instructions in this behalf may kindly be issued to all 
disbursing officers under your control. 

Yours faithfully , 

G. L , POPHALE , 
Deputy Secrotary to the Government of India . 


16 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 12 , 1955 . 


Imphal, the 1st October, 1953. 
No. V.7 .Press/ pub / 55. - The following Notices are published for general infor 
mation . 

Gopendra Shurma , 

Publicity Officer, Manipur . 
Imphal, the 20th September , 1955 . 
No. 8,55 , T . - Seuled tenders are invited for the supply of the following articles . 
Tonders addressed to the District & Ses ;ius Judges, Manipur will be received by the 
undersigned upt , 11-3 ) a . m . of the both October , 19.15 und will be opened oo 
the same day before the tenderer, at I p . m . Full particulars inay be had from the 
office during the office 

office hours . There shall be no binding to accept tho lowest 
tendor or to assign any reason for accoptance of any tendur . 

1 . Une Almirah of Uningth su size 8 3. x1 (for the use of Yairipok Panchayet ) 
2 . Eloven wroderi chai 8 . 

2 3 " y, lyx l 8 ( 4 for the use of the Dist. & 
Ss. Courte ., 2 for the use of Wangjing Panchayet, 

5 for the use of Moirang Panchayet ). 
3 . Four wooden be che i lj x1.x x1 11 for the use of Sub Judge s Court . 

1 for the use of Mojrang Panchayet . 

for the us ; of Wangjing Panchayet . 


M. Choudhury , 

C. 0. C., 
District & Sessions Court , Manipur. 


NOTICE No. 18 of 1955 . 
Vac:incies exist for three temporary posts of Assistant Inspector in the pay scale 
of Rs . 73-23-24-100-EB - t- 120 /- p . in . with usual D. A. Minimum qualificillion prescribed 
is Norm :ll pass Or B : sic Trained Mutric . Applications stating age , qualification , expo 
rience , number of wives living , kn.wledge of one or more local languages etc. aro 
invited and should reach the undersigne i on or before 15th October , 1955. Candidates 
are required to attend the otfic of cuiled fur an interview . 

B. C. Roy , 
Offg . Deputy Inspector of Schools , 

Manipur ( Valley ). 


Applications addressed to Officer on Special Duty , M. S. T. stating Age , Quali 
fication , Experience and number of wives living etc. are invited from suitable 
candidates for tre following temporary posts in M. S. T. The applications should 
rouch Officer on Special Duty , MS. T. on or before the 15-10-55 . The posts are trans 
ferable and those who are selected muy be posted either at Dimapur or at Kohima. 
Other things being equal, prefyrence will be given to those knowing oue or more 
local languages . 
Name of Post , Scale of Pay . 

No. of Post required. 
( 1) Mech :inics 50-3-80 / 

2 
(:-) Fitters 25-1-4 ; / 

4 
Dearnesy Allowance admissible under Rules are extra . 


S. Palit , 
Offioer on Special Duty 
Manipur State Transport . 


MANIPUR GAZETTH., OCTOBER 12 , 1955 . 


17 


Imphal, the 1st October, 1955 . 
No. V.7 / Press/ pub / 55. - The following Noticos are published for general infor 
mation , 

Gopendra Sharma, 

Publicity Officer, Manipur. 
NOTICE No. 20 / TE of 1965 . 
Applications stating nama, full address , are, previous experiencos and number of 
living wives if married are invited from willing graduates of Manipur for the post 
ol Head Master of Tamenglong Govt . M. E. Schjul on the piy scale of Rs. 100-10 
130 -EB - 10-25 ) with D. A. V. m . 

Applications will be received by the undersig ,ied uptu poon of 20-10-55 . and the 
candidates are to appear before the Inspector of Schools , Manipur along with Univer 
sity Certificates on the sume date at 1-30 p.m. for interview . Preference may be 
given to candidates knowing one moro lical languaces. 

Notice No. 21 / TE of 1955 . 
Applications stating age , home address , educational qualifications, previous experi 
ences ( if any ) and number of living wives if m l ried are invited for the 
following posts and they will be received upto 20-10-58 . Other things being equal 
preferonce will be given to candidate knowing ons or more of local languages . 
Candidates will be interviewed on same the date at 1-34) p.m. at the office of D.I. ! 
" Tribal. 

1 . One post of pandit at kbaram Tangkhul L. P. School on pay scale of 

Rs. 30-1-35 EB - 1-40 p.m. with D.A. 
2 , One post of teucher of Liwachanguing M. E. School on pity sca !o of 

K8. 40-1-50 - EB -21-60 p.m. with D.A. 


or 


als ) 


Votice No. 2 / TE of 1:55 . 
Applications stating age , bome dress, educational qualification , previous experi 
ences in typing are invited for a temporary post of clerk in the Deputy Inspector 
of Schools ( Tribal) for 91 days on pay scale of Rs. 40-2-50 - EB - 3-80- EB - 4.100 p.m. 
with D.A. and will be received by tho undersigned in the office during oftice upto 
20-10-56 . None need apply who is not at le 18 a motriculato . Other tbiugs being equal, 
preference will be given to the candidates who are expert in typing . 

L.M. Singh , 
Offy. Inspector of Schools, Manipur . 

i / c of D.I./T . 


Wanted one tomporary office :185istant for the o : fice of the Head Master , Johas 
tone High School, Imphal at the pay scale of Rs . 40-4-50 - EB - 3-80 - EB - 4-100 p.m. with 
usual D.A. 

Applications stating age , educational qualiticition , previ sus experience , if any and 
number of living wives (in case of married candidates ) will be received by the 
undersigned on or before 20-10-15 during office hours in every working day . None 
need apply who is not a matriculate of a recognised university, at least. Others thing 
being equal, preference will be given to one who know :: one or more local languages. 

The tenure of the post will be extended until Shri Tb , Modanjao Singh , the 
permanent incumbent resumes his service . 

K. Shastri, 

Hoad Master , 
Johnstone High School, Inapbal. 


18 


MANIPUR GAZEME, OCTOBER 12 , 1956 . 


Imphal, the 1st Cctober, 196 
No. V.7.Press/pub/55.--The following Notice is published for general information . 

Gopendra Sharma, 
Publicity Officer , Manipur . 


do 


1 
1 


NOTICE No. 16 / TE of 1955 . 
Applications stating ago, home addresses previous experience in the teaching and 

L. P. teachership passed 
number of wifi . living if murrie.I are invited from the 
candidates for substitute teacherslıip for the following schools on pay scales given 
against each and will be received by the undersigned upto 20-10-55 . Other things 
being equal preference will be given to candidates knowing one or more of local 
languages . 
Name of Schools . No of Post . 

Pay scale . 
UKUBUL SUB- DIVISION . 
1. Lamlang L. P. 

30-1-35EB - 1-41) Plus D. A. 
2 . Tuinem L., P. 

do 
33. Phadang L. P. 
4. Sirapukhong M. B. 

do 
JIRIBAM SUB - DIVISION . 
1. Jirighat L. P. 

30-1-35EB - 1-4 ) Plus D. A 
CHURACHANDPUR SUB - DIVISION . 
1. Thingkoo L. P. 

do 
2 . Churachandpur M. E. 

do 
MAO AREA , 
1 . Chawainu L. P. 

do 
2. Mao M. E. 

do 
TAMENGLONG SUB -DIVISION . 
1. Wajrangba L. P. 

do 
2 . Taousem L , P. 

do 
SADAR AREA . 
1. Motbung L. P. 

cto 
2. Mapao L. P. 

do 
TENG NOUPAL AREA . 
1 . Khoibu L , P. 

do 
2 . Chandiel L. P. 

do 


i 


1 


1 


1 


1 


N. Modoli. 
Deputy Inspector of Schools , 

( Tribal) Manipur. 


Impbal, the 6th October , 1955 . 
No. 870-2 /C /V /32/EX/ Int.-- Casual students of Intermediate Arts, Commerce and 
Science who are desirous of appearing at the final Examination of 1956 are to 
apply to the Principal , D. M. College by 31-10-55 with a fee of Rs. 10 ,- stating 
clearly the Roll No. of the last Examination and the subjects which they desire to 
offer . The applications will be received in the office of the Principal during office 
hours on all working days . 

N. B. Sinhn , 
Offg . Principal, D. M. College , Imphal. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 12 , 1965 . 


19 


Imphal, the 29th September , 1955. 
No. V.7.Press /pub /65. — The following Notice is published for general informativa . 

Gopendr Shurma , 

Publicity Officer, Manipur 
Imphal, the 26th September, 1958 . 
With effect from the 28th September, 1953 , a daily courier service from Imphal 
to Tamenglong and vice versa will be set up to curry mails between these two head 
quarters . Lamboos of the Deputy Commissioner s establishment will work as couriers . 
The courier service will be open to 

utilisation by all Government Departments in 
Imphal as well as in Tamenglong . All mails intended for delivery to the S. D. O., 
Tamenglong or other Officers posted there should be lauded over to the Deputy Commis 
sioner s Office and those to be despatched from Tamenglong to Imphal by Officers 
there should be delivered to the Office of the S.D.O., Tamenglong for onward trans 
mission to the respective destinations. Mails should be banded over to the offices 
mentioned during office hours on working days and at 10 A.M. on holidays . 

Denartments concerned will please direct their messengers to the respoctive offices 
at Imphal and at Tamenglong every day to collect their mails . 
This arrangement will continue until further orders . 

V. 8 , SUNDARAM , 

Deputy Commissioner , Manipur . 

নােভিশ ২ । 
অসিনা মরম ওইদুনা তুলিহন এরােডড্রামগী ক্ষতিপুরণ ফংগদবা প্রজা পুমা খংহল্লি । বরমদি অহান এরাে 
ডােমশিংগী নােটিশ ভৌখিবগী মঙ্গই তুলিহনগী নােটিশ খুন খুনগী চৌকিদারদা থাবনি । কনাগুনা আপত্তি ভৌগদ 
বৈদি তাং ৭১১৫৫ ইং নিংথৌকাবা সুমিং ফাওবগী মনুংদা উক্ত অফিসতা চে খারবা গনি । 

077 : CP : factor fores , 

47 , fe , f , i 
Impbal, the 7th October, 1966 . 
No. V.7.Press/pub/55.-The following Notice is published for general information . 

Gopendra Sharma, 

Publicity Officer, Manipur . 
Applications are invited for the following posta. 
1. One Graduate Teacher in the scale of pay Rs. 100-10-190 -EB-6-190 -EB - 10-250 . 

P.M. 
2. One Under-Graduate teacher in the scale of Rs. 75-24-100 -EB -4-120 . P.M. 
With dearness allowance admissible under tho rules in tbe Education Department. 

Applications stating age, home addross , educational qulifications, previous experienco 
if any , and number of wives if married , will be received by the undersigned upto 20th 
October 1955 during office hours . Other things being equal preference will be given to 
candidates knowing one or more local languagoy. 

Illegible 

Inspector of Schools , Manipur. 
CORRIGENDUM . 

Imphal, the 7th October , 1955. 
Tender Notice published at Manipur Gazette No. 32 , Wednesday , October 6 , 1955 
page No. 6 the undersigned 8d / -Gopendra Sharma Publicity Officer, Gort. of Manipur be 
road as Sd / -U.M . Sinha, Director of Industries , Manipur . 

Gopendra Sharma , 
Publicity Officer, Manipur. 


Imphal :- Printed and published by ihe Suporlatondeat Government Press O. 200 / 12-10-55 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 34 


Imphal, Wednesday , October 19 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


Ni) 


Part 1. - Appointments , Postings , Transfors , Powers, 

Leave and other personal noticon, 
Part 11.- Resolutions, Regulations, Orders , Notifi 

cations , Rulos etc. 


Part III . - Orders , Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV .-- Advertisements and Noticos etc. 


5 to 6 
6 to 9 


1 to 5 


PART II 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

NOTIFICATION . 

Dated Shillong, thi 1st Octoiser, 1955 . 
No. TM / 10 /55 / 31. - It is notified for informition and guidance of all Treasury 
Officers and Sub - lºreasury Officers in Assam , Tripura and Manipur that the remitters 
applications relative to drawings affected by the Treasuries and Sub- Treasuries do not in 
most cases contain the serial number and the actual date of issue of drafts . The absence 
of these essential particulars in the applications makes their identification with the relative 
paid drafts very difficult on the part of the Reserve Bank of India , Central Accounts 
Section , Calcutta . Consequently it gives rise to avoidable correspondence with the Drawing 
Officers . It is therefore , requested that all necessary particulars should invariably be 
furnished in the applications in the spuce provided for in the relative forms to avoid 
the difficulties so long experienced by the Riserve Bank of India . 

S. S. Lal, 
Deputy Accountant General ( I), Assam . 


FOR THE GAUH ATI UNIVERSITY MATRICULATION 

EXAMINATION . 1955 . 


Imphal, the 30th September , 1955 . 
Rules for the admission of private candidates to the preliminary Test Examina 
tion tu be held under orders of the Inspector of School , Manipur . 

Under the regulations of the University the following rules on the above subject 
are published for goneral information : 
1. (a ) A candidate who has not attended any School for at least one year pre 

vious to the examination , will be treated 88 & private candidate. 
(b ) Candidates wbo discontinued their studies while reading in the Sobool 

will have to wait till the time, when , if they continued their studies in a 
recognised School, they would have completod the Matriculationi Courbe . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 19 , 1955 . 


l’rivate candidates , froin outside the territorial jurisdiction of the Gau 
hati University cannot by allowed to appear at the Tost Examination unless 
they can produce the orders of the Gaubuti University sanctioning their 

migration . 
( d ) No candidate frumn a School which has not obtained formal recognition 

from the University will be recoynised as a private candidate even if he 
has read in a properly enrolled class of the School or las been taught as 

a private pupil by one or more members of the staff , with or without focs . 
( e ) lf 

any candidato in ( d ) be eligible t appear as a private candidate under 
( h ), he will be required to produce a certificate from the Hendinaster of 
the rucognised School where be last read mentioning clearly the year and 

the class from which he discontinued there . 
2. Ordinarily touchers of recognised High and Middle English Schools 

Schools and 
Librarians of recognised institution who intend to appear at the Matriculation Exa 
mination as privato candidate will not be required to appear at any Preliminary 
Test Examination if they havo 32 months of continuous service to their credit . 
Tboy should formally apply to the Registrar, Gauhati University, for permissiin to 
appear at tho oxamination on or before 318t October , 19.55 and should at the same 
time comply with the following requirements. 

Each applica : ion should be adressed to the Registrar and should be submitted 
through the responsible person together with a cortificate of good conduct and docu 
mentary evidence regarding age , residence and study and should contain a statement 
of the subjects proposed to be offe.m.) at the Examination . A te :: cher candidate should 
submit his application through the Ilead of the Justitution in which he is einployed , 
counteisigued by the Inspector of Schouls . 


3. A detenu candidate also will be required to appear at the Preliminary Tost 
Examination with permission from the Registrar. 
( a ) A detenu candidate , taking up Hygiene as an additional subject is to 

sulmit to the Registrar along with his application a certificate of training 
in the subject from a registorud Medical Practitioner or from a recognised 

toucher of Hygiene. 
( b ) Teachers of recognised High or Middle English Schools taking up Hygiene 

will not be required to submit any such certificate . 
4. Applications of teacher or detenu candidates must be accompanied by a per 
mission fee of Rs. 18 /-. No application will be considered without permission fee. The 
University Treasurer s Chalan or Postal Money Order receipt in support of the pay 
ment of permission fee must be attached in the application . 

5. All private candidates must pass the Test Examination held in any of the 
following High Schools : 

1. Johnstone High School , Imphal. 

2 . Ukhrul High School, Ukhrul. 
The Test Examination is ordinarily held before the X mas holidays . 

6. Every private candidate should submit not later than 7th November , 1966 
an application in the prescribed forru to the Headmaster of the High School at 
which he wishes to appear at the Test Examination . Late and incomplete applications 
will ordinarily be rejected . The application in the prescribed form , will be available 
from the Headmaster of the High School, wbere the Test Examination for private 
candidate will be held as under rule 3 . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 19 , 1956. 


7. All private candidates will be required to submit along with their application 
three passport size of their photography. The Hoidmister or the Inspector of Schools 
forwarding their application will retain one copy in his office and will forward the 
other two copies to the Office of the Registrar after publication of the test results. 
The real of the forwarding oflice with the name of the candidate should be put 
on the back of the photographs. Only the photographs of the oandidates sent up 
for the Matriculation Examination should be sent to the Office of the Registrar . 
These may be attached either to the applications or may be sent in a separate cover . 
8. ( 1) Caudilates shall bo oxamined in the following subjects : 
( i) Am.jor 

Vernacular Linguage Assa viesg , Bengali viz . Urdu and 
Hindi - Two paper s . 

Ог 
Two of the subjects in lieu of Major Vernacular if the Vornacular of the can 
didate is a language other than a Major Vernacular Language ( vide Clause 2 , Chapter 
I of Gauhati University Calendar). 

( ii ) English - Three full papers . 
( iii) Geography - One paper 
(iv ) History of India and History of England - One paper. 
( v ) Mathematics — One paper. 
( vi) A Classical language (Sanskrit , Arabic , Persian and Pali ) -One paper. 


Or 


Alternative Vernacular recognised by the Executive Council other than the Major 
Vernacular of the candidate already taken up as Compulsory Subject ( Assamese , 
Bengali , Hindi and Urdu ) -One paper. 
(b ) Candidates , if they so desire , may take up one of the following subjects, 
as addisional subject : 

(i) Elementary Scientific knowledge. 
( ii ) Elements of Physics and Chenaistry . 
( iii) Elementary Mechanics . 
(iv ) Elementary Hygiene . 
( v ) Additional Mathematics. 
(vi) Business Methods and correspondence . 
(vii ) CommercialGeography . 
(viii ) Elements of Public Administration in India . 
( ix ) Additional English . 

( x ) Weaving 

( xi) Carpentry . 
The Headmaster will then inform the candidate of the result of his application 
and the amount of res that the candidate will have to pay and of the date on which 
the Test Examination will commence . 

The fee must be paid on the date on which the Headmaster demands it. 

2 . A private candidate who attended a School previously must furnish & certi . 
ficate from the Hendinuster as to his good conduct . He must also submit a certificato 
from his tutor who must be a teacher of recognised standing that he has prosecuted 

regular course of study and has been subject to proper discipline since louving School. 


MANÍPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 19, 1955 . 


as 


10 . A private candidates who has never attended a Soliool must produce two 
certificates, one from a gentleman of recognised standing in his district to the effeot 
that he has never been at any school and bears a good character ; another from 
his tutor who must be teacher of recognised standing certifying that he has prosecuted 
& regular course of study. 

11 . If a candidato has appeared at any previous Matriculation Examination , Admit 
Card together with il certificate to the effect that he has prosecuted a regular course 
of study during the interval and bears a good character must be produced . 

Headmaster will enquire into the qualifications of the tutor . 

12. Private candidates offering Hygiene as one of their subjects need not obtain 
the previous perwission of the University for the purpose. They will be required 
to satisfy the Inspector of Schools that they have undergone a course of training 
in the subject. For this purpose they should submit to the Inspector of Schools , 
along with their applications for permission to appear at the Test Examination , 
certificates of training in it from a registered Medioil Practiti ,ner or from a recog . 
nised tcacher of Hygien !. 

Candidates desiring to offer Elementary Scientific Knowledge one of their 
optional subjects at the Matriculation Examination will be required to submit aling with 
their application for permission to appear at the Test Examiuation , certificates of 
having undergone practical training in Elementary Scientific Knowledge in a recig . 
pised echcol. 

13 . Admit Cards , in original, in the case of candidates who had appeared at the 
Matriculation i xamination previously or transfer certificates from rec guised Schools 
where they studied last in the case of others must be produced before they are 
allowed to appear in the Test Examination . In the event of their loss, duplicato 
copier must be produced . 

One who has never te.:n it any sc!:00l will be required to producu an affidavit 
sworn boy his guardian before a compotent Magistrato declaring his age . 
14 . 

The Headmasters are requusted to submit , to this offico , not later than 
15th November, 1985 two statements both in duplicate showing the names , present 
address and home address of private candidates who have been permitted to appear 
at the Test Examination aud of those who have been refused perinission to appear 
at it together witi. their applications statin ; tberein the reasons for refusa ! of per 
mission . 

15 . On the date of Exa upination , eac ! private candidate must be accompanied 
for the purpose of indentification by some person known to the officer conducting 
the examination ; otherwise lie will not be adınitted to the Test Examination , 

le . Ileadmaster.s are requested to subwit to this office for orders a statement 
in duplicate showing marks obtained by each of the privato candidates in each 
subject in the Test Examination , together with the application forms of the candi 
dates for countersignature , duly filled in and signed accompanied by the original 
documentary evidenoe referred to in paragraph 18 . 

17 . The applications of those candidates who are allowed to go up for the Matri 
culation will be sent by the Inspector of Schools direct to the University . And at 
the same time information will be sent to the respective schools as to the candi 
dates who are sent up . 

18 . Private candidates who are thus sent up should arrange to remit their fees 
to the Headmaster of the High School at which they appeared in the Test Exami 
nation ; and the Heudmaster will forward the same to the Registrar to reach him 
ON OŤ bofore the due date . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 19 , 1956 . 


5 


19. The fee payable by eich candidato to the Ujiversity for the Examination 
is Ps. 18 /- in addition to the permission fee Rs. 18 ;- if any , mentioned in paragraph 
4. In the Uuivuisity Centres they will be required to pay i contro fee of Rs. 4 per 
candidate . 

20 . Thu following centres have been recognise l as University Centres for the 
Matriculation Fxa quination , 1966 . 

Dhubri, Dibrugarh , Gauhati , Jorhat, Karimganj, Nowgong , Shillong , Sibsagar 
and Silchar, 

K. Guuro Singh , 
Inspector of Schools , Manipur. 


PART I 


NOTIFICATION . 

Imphal, the 8th October, 1965 . 
No. V.7.Press/pub/55.-- The following ntification issued by the Election Commis 
sion , India is published for general information . 

New Delhi, the 9th September, 1955 . 
No. 83 /55 / 10568. - In supersession of its notification No. 831:34/9278 , dated the 7th 
May , 1954 , the Election Commission , in exercise of the piswers conforrad by clause 
(a ) of sub -section ( 2) of section * 1 of the Representation of the Pe ple Act, 1951, hereby 
appoints Shri Din Dayal, Under Secretary , Election i omm ssin, isa!) officer who muy 
also receive Election Petitions presented in accordance with the provisions contained 
in Part VI of thy said Act . 

Gopendra Sharma, 
Publicity Officer , Manipur . 


NOTIFICATION. 

Implial, the 10th October, 1955 . 
No. Elec 2/54. — The following notification issued by thy Election Commission , 
India is published for general information . 

1 , Aurangzeb Ro:_d , 


New Delni - 2 , the 28th July , 1955 . 
No. 56 ; 2 54 - In exercise of the powers conferred by the provision to sub -rulo 
( 2) of the Rop. countation of the People (Conduct of Elections and Election l etitions ) 
Rules , 1951 the Election ( ommission hereby directs the following amendment shall 
be made in its Notification No. 50/2 , 53-2, dated the 8th February , 1953, 43 imzidel 
from time to time, nimely : 


A MEN D M ENT 
In column 2 of the table appended to the said notification after the entry (2 ) 
Standing Liun against the entry Patialt and East Punjab Union in coluion 1, tho 
following entry shall ba added . 

( 3 ) Camel, 

K. Gaurakishore Siogh , 
Asstt. Secretary ( YVT) to the Govt, of Manipur, 


0 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 19 , 1953 . 


NOTIFICATIONS. 

Imphal, the 11th / 12th October, 1955 . 
No. 7.10.FD -ORDER / Pub / 55. - The following notifications issued by the Govera 
ment of India , Ministry of Information & Broadcasting are republished for general 
information . 


New Delhi, the 28th September, 1975 . 
S. R. O ....... 

... ... ... ... ... In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 2 ) of section 
5 of the Cinematograph Act . 195. ( XXXVII of 1952 ), the Central Government 
hereby directs that the film entitled " THE MAN FROM BITTER RIDGE ” and 
its trailer produced by the Universal International Films Inc., U. S. A. shall be deemed 
to be uncertified films in the whole of India . 


( No. 8 / 18 /55 - FC ) 


S. R. ().......... .In exercise of the power : conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 5 
of the Cinematograph Act , 1952 (XXXVII of 1952), the Central Government hereby 
directs that the film entitled " Cell 245.5 -Death Row " und its trailer produced by 
Columbia Pictures Corporation , U. S. A. shall be deemed to be uncertified films in 
the whole of India , 

(No. 8 / 19 /55 - FC ) 

Copendra Sharm , 
Publicity Ollicer , Manipur . 


PART IV 
NOTIFICATION Yo . 7 of 955 . 


Imphal, the 20th September, 1955 . 
By order of the Judicial Commissioner , Manipur , the court of the Di.trict & Sessions 
Judge , Manipur and its subordinate ones will be closed for the LONG VACATION from 
the 15th October 1955 to the 16th November, 1931 and for the Christma • Holidays from 
the 24th December, 1955 to the 31st December, 1957. 


Matters which may require present and immediate attention iind any criminal 
cases and appeals which may be ready for hiaring during the long vacation will be disposed 
of by the District & Sessions Junge, Manipur . During the vâration he will sit on the 
17th October , 1955 and from the 28th October , 1955 to 31st October , 1955 and from 
the 3rd November , 1955 to the 9th November , 1955 during the long vacation and on 
the 24th and 25th December, 1955 during the Christinas holidays as vacation Judge. 


The office o ! the court will bo opened froin 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. during the periods as 
mentioned above and the romaining period of the long vacation and christinas holidays, 
tbe office will be opened from 12 noon to 4 p.m. every day except ou saturdays and 
holidays . 

The Office of the Sub Jedge s court and those of the Munsiffs and the Rural Poacha 
yets will be opennd during the long vacation and Christmas holidays from 12 noon to 4 
p.m. every day excopt on saturdays and holidays. 

I. M. I. H. Singh . 
District & Sessions Judge , Manipur . 


1 


. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 19 , 1955 . 


Imphal, the 26th September, 1955 . 
No. RH / 18 /51/58. - The following press notes received from the Government of lodia 
Ministry of Rehabilitation , New Delhi regarding " Restoration of seize. movable pro 
perty in West Pakistan " are republished for general information . 


PRESS NOTES . 


New Delhi , August 4 , 1937 . 
RESTORATION OF SEIZED MOVABLE PROPERTY IN WEST PAKISTAN . 

Lists of movable property (other than tiro-arms) seized from evacuees at the time 
of migration from Siud (West Pakistau ) and now lying with the Goverument of 
l akistan have been ruceived from the Government of Pakistan in puryuanco of the 
implenientation of the Movable Pruperty Agreement. The names of the owners and 
the places in which the movables are lying are given below . The individuals con 
cerned may write to the Property Fivld Officer , c/ o High Comnissioner fur India 
in Pakistan , Kuracbi. 


List of Owners . 


; 


; 


Sangbar : - Hargondas sio Katumal Hindoo of Jhol Taluka Sinjohro . 

District Sukkur : - Arjan s n Bhagwandas ; Late 8/0 Choitram , Quetta ; Atmaram 
Thandomal s o Haridas , Robri ; Bhagwane Mal, Riuje Ram s /o Pessumal, Shikarpur ; 
Chandumul s/ o Lekhraj , Shikarpur ; Gurmukhsingh Rijbaram , Jacoba bad ; Har Krishan 
das Odhardinomul, Khairpur ; Shayam and Morti s /o Kewalrani, Shikarpur ; Sarla 
Devi ; Washu and Jiand s/o Hariomal, Jacoba bad ; Dhuromal s/ o Ansbiram ; H1188i Bai 
and Savitri Bai s/o Shiv Dayal, Rohri ; Khio e /o Damomal, Miani, Teh Rohri ; Kri 
shamal /0 Pinjoomal, Sukkur ; Khaimo Mohan s/ o Tikiomal, Sbikarpur ; Lalchand 
and k undan Mal /o Chatrumal, lohri ; Madhodas s o Chandumal, Sukkıır ; Nand Lal 
Gord handas, Khoobihand and Thakurdas slo Totaram Hingar ; Paragram 8/0 ( hugu 
mal, Sbikarpur ; Ramchand 8/0 Thawurds, Shikarpur ; Surnomal and others s o Jamejba 
Rai, Rohri ; Chuggi and Shanti s /o Kanyalal Shikarpur. 


New Delhi, August 8 , 1955 . 
RESTORATION OF SEIZED MOVABLE PROPERTY IN WEST PAKISTAN . 


Lists of movable property (other than fire- arms) seized from evacuees at the timo 
of migration from Punjab (West Pakistan ) and now lying with the Government of 
Pakistan have been received from the Government of l akistan in pursuance of the 
implementation of the Movable Property Agreement. The names of the owners and 
the places in which tho movables are lying are given boli,w . The individuals concerned 
may write to the Property Atiache Oflice of the Deputy High Commissioner for India 
in Pakistan . Lahure . 


List of Owners . 


.. 


District Gujranwala : -- Harichand Kotra , Mandi, Akalgarh ; Pritam SingbB/o 
Bhagat Singh ; Dhoonda Mall s/o Thakur Das, Sadhokee ; Jaggith Singh Dharban wod 
Rais Asa Mutenies . 

District Mianwali : -Sahib Ram alo Walai Ram , Harnoli ; Narain Dass s /o Sham 
Dass , Isakhel ; Thakar Das s/ o Hondaram Kalra , Isakhel ; Dharam Chand s/ o Chaman 
Ram Zargar , Mankera ; Chamau Lal s/o Rai Ditta Dhingra , Chak No , 643 , District 
Lyallpur ; Lakahan Ram Panjgirnn ; Khan Chand , Panjgiran ; Ganus Dass R /o Thana 
Ram Zargar, Leiah District Muzaffargarh ; Parmy Nand s / o Kanahra , Gaubawala . Teh . 
Bbakkar ; Hota Ram 8/0 Dial Dags Teja , Gauharwala , Teh . Bhakkar ; Dowanohand , 
Ohief Goods Clerk , Kundian ; Kana s /o Nanak Ohodar, Wanbhachran ; Harbans Lal 


8 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 19 , 1955 . 


klo Hemraj, Bhasi!). Mari Indus ; Khan Chand s /o Mul Chand ; Pishori Lal, Manohar 
Lal s/o Foth Chand Adlakha , Wanbhaclaran ; Gopichand s/o Jindya Ram , Brithm , 
Thana Wali Tehsil ; Jsar Singh s/o Pyara Singh , Tsakhel ; Lakha Ram Punjgrain ; Duni 
Chand Kundian ; God: Ram slu Chamad Ram , farnoli ; Khanchand s / o Mulchand ; 
Kabir Singh No Sobha Singh sło Narang , Kamrmashani ; Lekhraj s/o Nihal Chand , 
Kalri Tehsil , Shauti Lil s/o Hemraj, Piplan . 

District Montgomery : -Duyar Mal Basant Kam vanli Ariwala ; Atma Rain , Mendi 
Ariwalio ; Samidas Mandi Ariwala , 


District Shahpur .- Dewan Bhagwan Dirse of Vithu Tiwava . 


District Jhelum : -Sardar Singh , Head Treasurer, Jhelum Treasury . 
District Rawalpindi : -Gujinder Singh , House No. 5 , 6 , 7 and 8 Harding Road . 


New Delhi, August 8 , 1955 . 
RESTORATION OF SEIZED MOVABLE PROPERTY IN WEST PAKISTAN . 


Lists of movable property ( other than fire -arms) seized from evacuees at the time of 
migration from Duhawalpur State (Wist Pakistani ) and now lying with the Government 
of Pakistian have been received from the Government of Pakistan in pursuance of the 
implemeatation of the Movable l roperty Agreement. The names of the owners and the 
places in which the movables are lying alo given below . The individual concerned muy 
write to the Property Attache , Office of the Deputy High Commissioner for India in 
Pakistan , Lahore . 


List of () wners . 
Ahmedpur East : -Knushi Mal, Dhalo Mal, Kandiprebar; Gurbachan Singh , Mehtah 
Singh , Harunrhad ; Jhinko Ram , Haruna bad . 


bad ; 


; 


; 


Tehsil Bahawalnagar : Choudhary Bhagwant Ram ; Hxkim Rai. 

Tehsil Minchindabad :- Banwari Lal, Milkai Lakho Ram Parwathi ; Maj. Lukho ; 
Mulchand ; Dhano Jamna Das; Pali Ram , Nanak Chand , Harunabd ; L. Jhangi Ram , 
Krishin Ram , Harunab : d ;. L. Hazari LHI, Lokh Dayal, Furtabban 

L. Nebh Raj, 
Fortabbas ; Bhalla singh Bugo Singo , Fortabbus ; Rohr 1 Singh Gardit Singh , Haruna 

Hukain singh Munshi Singh , Forta bbas; Ridha Krishan Zargar, Haruvabad 

Kain Sant Lal ; Ram Chand Madan Lal, llarunabid ; Munshi Ram Ram Purkash , 
Kanya Lul, Ramchand , Harunabad Natho Ram Lakho Ram , Harunabad ; Luchmi 
Chand ( huni Lal ; Jinda Ram Kila Kam ; Nirain Dass Gurditt kam , Harunabad ; 
Lala Gopi Chand , Jamshet Rai , Harunahad Suwun Singh Sardar Singh , Harunabad ; 
Wiro Ram tango Ram , Harunabad ; Lobari Ram , H.runabad ; Lachhman Dags Kash 
miri Mal ; Pannı Lal Bangari Lal, Harunabad ; Panna L l Ram Naruin , Haruna 
bad ; Jesit Ram Poth Chand Harunabad ; Bihar Lal, Harunabad ; Gorbachand Sivgh , 
Mehtab Singh , Harunabad ; Jinko Ram ; Harunabad ; Nank Chand Gopi Chand , Ha 
runabad ; Kula Singh Jawahar Singh , Fortablas ; Jinda Ram Teja Ram Harunabad . 

DISTRICT RAHIMYARK LAN :-TEHSIL SADIQABAD : Prem Mal s/o Holo Mal 
and Maikh Raj Paroo Ram Khatti , Bhatwahan , Tobsil Sadiqabad ; Barora Ji, Təhsil 
Rahimyarkhan . 

H. Ranbir Singh , 
Asstt . Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


; 


: 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 19 , 1955 . 


9 


NOTICE No. T /19 / 55 . 

Imphal, the 3rd October, 1955 . 
Sealed tenders in prescribed form will be received from the registered contractors 
upto 12 noon of 27th October, 55 in the office of the undersigned for the under 
mentioned work . Details may be made available from the office during office hours. 
NAME OF WORK . ESTIMATED COST. 

EARNEST MOVE Y. 
Construction of Quarter for the 

taff Officer of the National 
Cadet Corps at Imphal. 

Rs. 29,974 / 

Rs. 750 / 
Forms may be obtained from the office of the undersigned during office hours. 

Y Tombi Singli . 
Executive Engineer 
Irrigation Division , Imphal. 


Imphal, the 12th October , 1955, 
Applications will be received by the undersigned for filling up a pest of Cha 
prassee for School Office upto the 24th October, 1953. None need apply who does 
not satisfy the following conditions. 

( 1 ) Must be literate and be capable of reading English letters and figures 

in addition . 
(2 ) Must not be over 30 years of age on 1-10-55 . 
( 3 ) Must know at least one local language thoroughly . 

( 4 ) Must not lave more than one wife . 
The scale of pay is Rs . 22-1-28 /- plus lisual D. A. The post is permanent but 
the selected candidate will be in probation for one yeur . 

Sd /- Illogible . 
Inspector of Schouls , Manipur. 


Imphal, the 14th October, 1955 . 
No. 3658 /ST; TENDER /55. - Tenders are invited from Bona fide labour suppliers for 
supply of labour for unloading and loading of articles from /to vehicles to / from Godown 
iu Manipur State Transport, Imphal. Prı per staking and weighment of packages 
either damaged or otherwise us and where required will be done by the suppliers 
at their cost. The tenders sliould be in rato per maund and reach the undersigned 
on or before 20/10/55 and will be opered on the next day beforo those wh ) clect 
to be present. The successful tenderer will have to deposit & sum of Rs. 1010 /- as 
security in cash within seven , days of cccptance of tender. 

The undersigned reserves the right to reject the lowest or any tender and is 
not bound to assign any reason thereof. 

S. Palit , 
Officer on Special Duly , 
Manipur State Transport. 


Imphal :- Printed and published by the Superistondent Governoeat Fress C. 240 / 19-10-35 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 35 - E - 8 


Imphal, Friday , October 21 , 1955 . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Ordon by the Chief Commissioner . 

NOTIFIATION . 

Imphal, the 5th October , 1955 . 
No. HCNA / 15 /52. - In exercise of the powers delegated to him by the President under clause 
( 1 ) Article 239 of the Constitution published under Notificution No. 20 / 14 /62 - F - II of the 
Government of India , Ministry of Information and Broadcasting , dated the 21st July , 1952 
and in fuperversion of the rules inrued under Notification No. H -Mirc !79/51 dated the 1st July , 1951 , 
published in the ( azette of Manipur, “ xtraurinary issue No. 22 - E - 7 , dated the 21At July , 
195 ) , the Chief Commissioner is pleased to make the following rules under Part III , section 
16 of the Cinematograph det, 1952 ( XXXVII of 1952). 
( a ) Prescribing the terms, conditious and restriction subject to which licences 

may 

bre 
granted under the fund Part . 
(b ) Providing for the regulation of Cinematograph 

Cinematograph exhibitions for securing the public 
safety , and 
( c) Prebioribing the time within which and the conditions subject to which an appeal 

undor sub -section (3 ) of section 12 of the said Act may be preferred . 


T. Kipgen , 
Secretary (HED ) to the Govt , of Manipur . 


THE MANIPUR CINEMATOGRAPH RULES, 1955. 


( Rules made under part III , section 16 of the Cinematograph 

Act , 1962 (XLIII of 1952 ). 


PART I 


means 


INTRODUCTION . 
1. Title.- ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Manipur Cinematograph Rules , 1955 . 

(2 ) They shall come into force from 1-1 ) -55 . 
2. Definition . In these rules , unless there is something repugnant in the subject or context. 

(i) Act means the Cinematograph Act, 1952 . 
( ii ) auditorium means thul portion of the building which is occupied by the audience or 
spectators during a cinematograph exhibition and enclosure 

that portion of 
the place licensed 

ander Section 10 of the Act in which Cinematrograph apparatus 
is orected , 
( iii) Chief Commissioner means the Chief Commissioner of Manipur , 
(iv ) District Magistrate means the District Magistrate of Manipur ; 
(v ) Electric Inspector moans the Electric Inspeotor of Manipar or other officer appointed 

hy the Chief Commissioner to perform the functions of the Electric Inspector under 
these rules ; 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 2 ) , 1958 . 


( vi ) Executive Engineer in relation to the licensing of any place for Cinematograph 

exhibitions , ineens the offices holding the post of an Executive Engineer in the Public Works 
Department of Manipur or much other officer Ms muy be appointed by the Chief 

Commissioner tu perfurou te ducian of the Exccutive Engineer under these rules ; 
(vii ) exiť includes an cmergency exit and any cutra aconable by the public as an exit ; 
( viii ) fire resisting material means 

(a ) burnt brick work . veurut concrete and reinforced brickwork or ( ement concrete having 

A minimum cover of one inclı ; 
( terra cotta bluess serurely bondel, proviles that no side or wel, thereof in less than 

one and a half inches thick ; 
(c ) stone , tiles, sulid gypsum blocks, marble, iron , steel, copper , Arbentos orzine ; or 
( 1) such other material in the Chief Comissioner may ly notification declare to be 

fire -resisting materials ; 
(ix ) touring cidrinatograph means at Cinem : utograph apparatus which is constructel 

that it can be taken from plane 10 place for the purpose of giving cinematograph 
exhibitions 


KO 


11l ( 911s 


a 


touring Cinematographe 


in 


( x ) touring cinematograph of the wafely class 

which an incandescent lamp is 1-2cd for ile projector. 


PART 11 


PROCEDURE IN GRANTING LICENCES . 


co 


a 


are 


un 


( 1) Licences grantet inder Section 10 of the Act whall be vither annual ur temporary . 
( 2 ) An annual licence shall only be granteit in respect of building which is per 

and 
manently equipped for cincomatograph exhibitions 

in respect 

of which the 
requirements sot forth in the l ir :: t Schedule to these rules fulfilled . It shall 
be valid for one year front the class of issue and shall be renewalile 

the 
application of the licenscr . 
( 3) Notwithstanding inything in the pºorering rub-rule , an apunal licence may be granted 

or l enewed for a furioil of two year- from the date of the issue of these rules in respect 
of a building allcaily licensed for cinematograph exhibitions on that dute , if as regards 
its location , structure, littings , electrical and other equipinent the provisions of the 
rules published with the Chief Commisrioneri notification No. H.Misc /79 / 51 dated 
the 1st July , 1951 are complied with . After the expiry of this period , an annual 
licence nay continue to be grantul or renewed in respect of such a building only if 
all the provisions of the rules in the First Schedule are complied with . 
Proviileil : liat the provisions of paraçuples 1 ( l ), 

( 2 ) ani 3 ) 1 , 8 (1 ) , 9 , 10 ( 3 ) , ( 1 ) 
and (5 ) , 13 (2 ) and (3 ), 18 ( 1), 19 unil 29 in the First Schedule may be relaxed by the 
Chief Commissioner in any partimulir C !!** 160 ruirli axtent anal subject to such conditions 

as the Chiet ( ommissioner may think lit. 
(4 ) Subject to the provisions of the rules in Puri , #temporary licence 

may 

be granted 
in respect of any place for eshibitions by means of touring cinematograph only . A 
tempuriery licence may be given in the first instance by the licensing authority for 
the period of two months . The validity of a teinporary liconcu: may , however , 
be extendel upto , maximum of six months by the Chief Commissioner . The aggro 
gate period of touring cinematograph at ole place in the calendar year shall not be 
extended beyond the period of six months in any case . ol fee of Rs . 20 / - will also 
be levied for the second or subrequent licence , 
Explanation :- Any place in this sub -rule shall incluido the arca within 5 miles of 
thu limits of a local authority excluding a District Board , or within five miles of 

the village for which the licence was granted . 
4 ! Licences whether annual or temporary shall be in Form A in the Second Sohedule to 

these rules and shall be subject to the conditions and restrictions set forth therein und 
to the provisions of these rulos . 


Alliola 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 21 , ! 955 . 


3 


be 


ODO 


on 


a 


DEW 


212 


porernises 


Onc 


5. ( 1 ) Every application for the grant O ! renowal of a licence shall love in writing and 

shall be signed by the applicant , and a court fee (if une rupice shall payable thereon . 
( 2 ) Application for llie grant of an annual licence shall be accompanied by 
(a ) Full particulars rega : ding the ownership of and all rights in the premises and 

in the cinematographe apparatus to be used therein ; 
( b ) complete plans , elevations and Rections in duplicato of the preinisen und all 

erections or buildings , thereon drawn correetly to the scale of one - eighth of au inch 
to one foot and showing the width of all stuirways and the number 

of steps 
in each , the width of curridors , gangways anal 

doorways , 

the height of the 
cinematograph and of the liait for the generation or conversion of electrical energy . 
( c ) site plan in luplicate un 

a separate shout drawn to the scale of 

for 
tieth of an inch to a foot showing the position of the premises in relation 
to any alljarent premises and to the public thoroughfares upon which the eito 
of the premises alıuts , and the arrangements proposal for the parking of motor 

cars and other vehicles , 
di spc 

specifications of the various materials proposed to be usel in the construction 
of the building . The " ardinal points of the compass shall be shown 

the 
plans and the plans shall be 0 coloured as to distinguish the materials used 

in 
the construction of the buildings . 
( 3 ) Applications unior Kubrulu (2 ) of this rule shall be submitted to tbe licensing 

authority before any alterations necessary for the adaptation of the premiges for cine 
matograph exhibitions are taken in hand in the case of 

building before 
its construction is begin . 
( 4 ) The licensing authority nay 
in ay require applicant for 

lemporary licence to 
furnish -uch plans of the and such specifications as he 

may consider 
ne ( " 56aly . 
6 . An application for the renewal of an annual licence shall be made at least 

month 
before the date of the expiry of the old licence . 
7. ( 1 ) If on an application for the renewal of an annual licence the licensing authority does 
not for any reason before the date of the expiry of the licence either 

an 
return the licence or reflme to renew the 

Aune , he inay graut 

temporary por 
mit in Form B in the Secco Schedule to these rules . 
( 2 ) Such temporary permit shall be subject to the conditions of the licence sought to 

le renewed and shall be valid for such period not exceeding two months at a time 
as the licensing authority may viroct ; 
Provided that the temporary permit shall cease 

tu be valid and shall be surren 
dered to the licensing authority on the applicant roceiving his licence duly renewed , 

on his receiving an order refusing to renew the licence . 
( 8 ) The temporary permit shall during the period of its valivity bz dreinen 

to 

be 
licence for the purposes of these rules , 
( 4 ) A fee of ten lillepes shall be levie for the grant of any kuchi 

temporary permit , 
provided th ::: if in the opinion of the licensing authority the grant of this permit 
has not barn necessitatoil loy the negligence of the journe, til : free il portion of 

it may be remitted . 
8. The licensin : authority may at any time revoke Or suspenl is licence granted by him 

for any breach of these rule or of the conditions , of the licence or for any other reason 

recorded lov hon in writin . 
9 . The fics shown in the Thirl Schedule to these rules shull tops charged for thie 

grant 
and renewal of licences , 

these 
10. ( 1) The licensee shall be resp uwiblo for compliance with the provisions of 

rulos 
and with the conditions of his licence , for the maintonanco 

Of 

the licensel pre 
misor at all times and in all respects in conformity with the standards prescribed 
by these rules and for taking all necessary measures before any cinematograph exhi 
bition is commenced to ensure the safety of the public and his omployees against 
fire and other accidents . 


renew 


( r 


& 


Or 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 21 , 1956 . 


( 2 ) The licensee or some responsible person nominated by him in writing for the 

Puls 
pose shall be in general charge of the licensed preminos and cinematograph during 

the whole time that any exhibition is in progress . 
11. Nothing in these rules shall render it obligatury un the licensing authority to grunts 

a licence in respect of any place , if for reason of its proximity to any place of wor 
ship or the inconvenience that would be caused to persons living working in the 
neighbourhood or for any other sufficient reasons , lie 

considers it inexpedient 10 grant 
a licence . 


or 


PART III 

INSPECTIONS . 
12. ( 1 ) Bofure granting or renewing an annual licence the licensing authority shall 

(a ) ( all upon the Executive Engineer to exainine the structural features of the buil 

ding and report whether the rules relating thereto have been duly complied with ; 
(1 ) call upon the Electric lospector to examine the cinematograph and the electrical 

equipment to be used in the building and to report, whether they coinply with the 
requirements both of these rules and of the India Electricity Act , 1910 , and of 
such of the rules made therounder as are applicable , whether all reasonable pre 
cautious have been taken to protect * pectators and employees from electric shock 
and to prevent the introduction of fire into the building through the 118e of the 
electrical equipment, and whether the prescribed fire extinguishing appliances have 
buen provided , are in working order and are suitable for the purpose for which 

they are intended . 
(2 ) All deforts revealed hy such inspections shall be brought to the notice of the applicant 

or licenseo and of the licensing authority , who may refuse to grant or renew the licence 

unless und unt : l they are rumedied on his satisfaction . 
13. Before granting a temporary licence , and sub - equently at suci times as he may consider 

nooorrary , the licensing authority shall call upon the Executive Engineer to inspect the 
building an l to report whethr it is structurally safe for use for cinematograph oxhibitions . 
No foe shall be payable for such inspections , but before making his report the Executive 
Engineer may require the applicant for a licence or the licensee , un the case inay lxe , to produce 
such drawings of the building as he may consider necessary and may at the request of 
the applicant or licenave called all or any of the drawing to be prepared in his office , a 
reasonable fee for the work done in this respect being charged under the special orders of the 
Chief Engineer , Central Public Words Nopartments, in each case , Defects revealed by any 
Inspection shall be brought to the notice of the licensiug authority , who 

may refuse to 

grant 
a licence or may revoke a licence already gruntod unless and until such defects are remedied 

to his satisfaction . 
14 . Before granting a temporary licence the licensing authority shall call upon the Electric Inspector 

to examine the electric appliances to be used in the cinema premises and to report as to their effi 
ciency and safety for purposes of cinematograph exhibitions . Defects revealed by such inspections 
shall be brought to the notice of the liconging authority , who muy refuse to grant a licence 

unless and until they are remedied to his satisfaction , 
15. The licensing authority or any officer authorised by him in this behalf may 

at any time 
enter a place which he has reason to believe is being used for the purpose of cinematograph 

exhibitions in order to satisfy himself that the conditions of the licence aru being complied with . 
16. (1) The Executive Engineer, Electric Inspector or any offiour specially appointed by the 
Executive Engineer or the Electrio Inspector in this behalf may at 

any time 

enter 
and inspect any place licensed under Suction 10 of the Act . 
(2 ) A report of every such inspection shall be made within 

made within forty -eight hours to tbe 
licensing authority . 
( 3 ) All defects revealed by such inspections shall be 

brought to the notice of tho 
licensed and shall also be reported to the liceuring authority . 
( 4 ) No fuos other than initial and annual inspection fuos by the Electric Inspector 

shall be charged for inspection under this rule . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 21 , 1955 . 


5 


or 


( 2 ) 


17. ( 1) The licensing authority may , if he considers necerenry , by general special order 

authorise a medical officer to inspect the sanitary condition of any of the places 
which have been licensed by him under Section 10 of the Act , and such officer may 
visit all parts of the premises for purposes of inspection at any time . 
Deferts revealed loy such inspections shall be brought to the noticu of the licensco 

and also be reported to the licensing authority . 
18 . Thu licence and the plan and description , if any , attachel thereto shall be produced 
on demand by the licensing authority or by any officer authorised by 

by him 

or by 
where rules to enter a place liconsed under Sertion 10 of the Act . 
19. ( 1) Touring cinematograph used for public exhibition shall be brought for the 

purpose 
of annual inspection to the Electric Inspector . 
( 2 ) If after fuch inspection the Electric Inspector is satisfied that touring 

cineins 
tograph is usable withont ( langer to the public he shall issue a cortificate to thin 

effect in Form C in the Second Schedule to these rules . 
(3 ) A certificate issued under the preceding Bub - rule shall he effective for 

year 
only but shall be renewable after fresh inspection for further period of year . 
( 4 ) Fees shall be payable for the grant " and renewal of u curtificate under sub -rule (2 ) 

of this rule at the rate set forth in the Third Schedule to these rules . 
20. Tho District Magistrato or the Superintendent of Police , Manipur , 

officer autho 
rised in this behalf by the District Magistrate may at any time enter 

any place, 
licensed under the Actor any 

other place which they have 

believe is 
being used for the purpose of Cinematograph exhibition to satisfy that the film 
has been certified ly the Boarel as suitable for unrestricted public exhibition or for public 
exhibition restricted to adults and which when exhibited displays the prescribed marks 
of the Board and bar not, been altered or tempered with in any way 6.000 euch mark 
was aftixed thereto . 


one 


1 


оце 


or any 


Tegson 


to 


PART IV 


ALTERATIONS AND REPAIRS TO LICENSED PREMISES : 


21. 


cause 


( 1 ) No addition to or alteration of any portion of any premises licensed under Section 
10 of the Act , necessitated by fire, natural calamity or 

any other 

shall be 
made without the sanction of tbe licensing authority : 
( 2 ) 

The licensee shall give notice in writing to the licensing authority of liis intention to 
make any such addition or alteration , an / ruch notice shall be accompanied by complete 
plane, elevations and sections , and specificativos of the work proposed to be executed , 
drawn up in duplicate in the manner prescribed in rulo 5 provilleil that in the case 
of premises for which a temporary licence line been granted such plans and spoci 

ficatims shall be furnished as the licensing authority may consider necessary . 
( 3 ) 

The work shall not be commenced until the consent of the licensing authority has 
been obtained , and the licensing authority shall not give his content : unless the 
Executive Engincer certifies that the proposod addition or alterations in accordance with 

these rules . 
( 1 ) 

No addition to or alteration of any part of the cinematograph and its appurtenances 
or of the lighting or other electric arrangements shall be made without the sanction 
of the livenging authority . 

The licencroce shall give notice in writing to the licensing authority of his intention 
to make any such acilition or alteration and the licensing authority shall not give 
saoction thereto unless the Electric Inspector or an Officer deputed by him certifier 

that the addition or alteration is in accordance with the provisions of these ruler . 
The licenseo ehall give notice in writing to the licensing authority of his intention to 
carry out any repairs or redecoration decessitating the use of scaffolding , cradles or plant 
giving full details of the position thereof, if it is intended that the publio shall be 
admitted while such scaffolding , cradles or plant are in position or in use . If the licensing 


22 . 


6 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 2 ) , 1956 . 


23 . 


authority shall no l equire, the premises shall be closed to the public until the work has 
been completed and the scaffolding , cradles and plant removed . 

The electrical installation shall be in charge of a competent electrician during the wholo 
of the time the public alo in the building . 

Attendants and all members of the stu Temployed in the building during an exhibition 
shall carry electric torches for use in emergency in the event of failure of the lighting . 


24 . 


PART V 


SPECIAL RULES FOR EXHIBITIONS BY MEANS OF TOURING CINEMATOGRAPHS OF THE 

SAFETY CLASS IN PLACE LICENSED TEMPORARILY . 


20 . 


to 


Certi 


2.3 . The rules in this part shall apply les exhibitions givon by means of touring cinemato 

graples of the safety class in places icense ! temporarily . 

The cinematograph apparatus shall have been critified by the Electric Inspector within a 

year of its date on which the exhibition is given to be usable without dauger to the public . 
27 . The cinematograph apparatus shall be housed in a fire proof enclosure . 

Provided that if the winematograph apparatus is certified by the Electric Inspector to be 
a touring cinomatograph of the safrry claus no fire - proof enclosure need be provided , but 
a cleur space of six feet ( hereinafter referred to as the reserved space ) whall be railed 

of round the cinematograph apparatus . 
28 . In the case of exhibitions given in i tent or bootlı or in any shelter of structure composed 

or covered with combustiblo materials or of a movable character, the cinematograph uppa 
ratus shall be operuted from outside suvir too Looth , sheltor or structure and shall be 
placed in accordance with the provisions of rule 27 at a distance of at least six fret 

therefrom . 
29 . The cinematograph nachine obil le puliteit in il permanent enclosure . Such enclosures 
shali be it least o fragen in height. IT one machine is to le operateri the Ilvor 

space 
shall It be less Ilian 1.8 

squable Pre:1. 

11 inure than one machine is be operated 
therein an auditional ] 24 -q 11 :2r « leret shall be provided for each udilitional machine . The 
enclosure containing the cinematograpii machine in these rulus referred to as " the onelo 

sure " shall be eubitantially construed of fire resisting materials . 
30 . No person other than 

: b qualified predlog employed by the licenser and hulling : 
firate granted by the Electric Inspector or an apprentice duly authorisol ly the liceusce 
under rules 42 shall lie allowed to outer or to be in the enclosure or the reserved 

space 
while the ( shibition is in progress . 
31 . No inilaminabile article wall unnecestarily be taken into or allowed to remain in the 

enclosure ve reserved wpace, nu sinuking shall be promitted therein und no naked light shall 
be used therein . 
No drapery and no unprotected combustible materials other than such materials as 

may 
compose the floor shall be within six feet of the cinematograph apparatus . 
33 . The following fire appliances shall be provided namely , a bucket of sand , two buckets of 

water , á damp blanket and one portabile chemical fire extinguisher of a pattern , clans and ca 
pacity approved by the licensing authority , and such other appliances as the licensing 
authority may prescribo . They shall be fu disposed as tu le rendily available for use in 

( HAC of t... within the enclosure 
34. All films not in use shall be kept in recrely closell fire -resisting receptacles . 

Adequate means of exist shall be providerl as prescribed by the licensing authority . 
38. Without prejudice to the genusality of the foregoing rule , no tent , booth or similar atructure 

shall bo used for the purpose of į cinematograph eshibition if it is enclosed by a wall 
or walls which do aut permit of adequate means of egress and which are erected within 
thirty feet of such tent, bouth or similar structure , 
The seating shall be so arranged as not to interfere with free access to exits, and both 
the exits and passagos and gangways leading to thein shall throughout the performan 
be kept clear of all obstacles . 


32 . 


35 . 


37 . 


Ince 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 21 , 1955 . 


7 


PART VI 


OPERATORS AND APPRENTICES . 


38. Before tho commencement of each porformance the cinematograph operator shall satisfy himself 

that the fire appliances intended for use within ihe "no- re are in working order, and 
during the perforinanee such applianers shall be in the charge of some person specially appoin 

ted for that purpose , who shall see that they are kept constantly available for use. 
39. ( 1 ) During an exhibition the enclosure shall be in charge of a qualified operator of not lens than 

eighteon years of age who holes it vertificato granted by the Electric Inspector to the effect 

that he is cuinpetent to handle and operate a cinematograph . 
( 2 ) An operator shall not be granteil certificato unless he 
( a ) possesses a working kuowledge of cinematograph machine and a particular technical know 

ledge of the type of machine which he is at the time employed in operating ; 
(b ) is thorouglily conversant with the rules reluting to cinematograph exhibitions and pre 

cautions against film ; 
(c ) is acquainted with thu 10 : t speedy and effective methods of dealing with fire 
(di pogresnes & fnir knowledge of the elements of electric power, direct and alternating current, 

voitago and amperage ; uud 
(c ) is proficient in the handling , winiling repairing efficient leaning of films. 
( 3) The Electric Inspector may for reasons to be recorded in writing withdraw a certificate gran 

ted by him . 
( 4 ) In regard to the grant and withdrawal of certificate , the Electric Inspector shall art under 

the general supervision of the licensing authority . 
41). The operator.in -charge fball lie present in the enclosure and shall devote his wuole attention 

to the cinematr.gr:ph during the whole time that it is being operated . He sball see that the 
provisions of rules 30 , 1, 32 and 41 of these inli s 2002, paragraphs 24 , 25, and 30 of the First 

Schedule , as the milyo may be , are strictly ob -erved . 
1.1 (1) Before the commencement of an exhibition , the operater-in - charge xhull satisfy himself that 

all cables , leads, connections and resistancius as also the fire extinguishing appliances in the 

enclosure ire in proper working order . 
(2 ) The resistances , if not under constant observation , shall be inspected at least once during 

cach lifornmar ce. If any fault is detected , current shall be iminediately switched off and 

shall remain switched off until the fault is removed. 
42. The operator- in - charge shall not allow the film to travel through the machine at a greuter speed 

than one !:undred foot a ininute . 
An apprentico (July Authorised by the license may be allowed within the encloguro . Such 
apprentice shall not be of less than sixteen years of age and shall not be permitted to operate 

the cinematograph except in the presence of the operator- in - charge . 
44 . No perron shall operate il cinematograph or hu within the encloser while under the indluence 

of alcoholic liquor or an oiler intoxicant , 
4.3 . Every person who hold : a licence under Section 10 of the sot shall furnish the licensing 

authority with a list of operators omployol by him ; and whenever any new operator is engaged 
by himn be shall furnish the licensing authority and the Electric Inspector with particulars 
regarding him before he is allowed to commence work . 


13 . 


PART 


VII 


MISCELLANEOUS CONDITIONS 


40i . In addition to the condition prescribed by Section 12 of the Act, the following conditions 

shall be inserted in cvery licence granted under Section lu . 
(i) No firework shall be used as an adjunct to a cinematograph exhibition , 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER - 21; 1965. 


2D 


( ii ) Save as the liconcing authority may by written order permit, no load speaker. musi 

cal instrument , grainoplone , band , drum , bell, horn , whistle , siren or other device for 
cruating a lond noise shall be employect or allowed to be used an advertisement 
or to attract attention in or outside the licensed place , nor shall any device be em-. 
ployed which is designed ur sorver to deliver the entertainmont to 

persons 

outside 
the licensed place . 
( iii) No poster, advertisement , sketch , synopsis or programme of a film shall be displayed , 

vold or supplied either in or anywhere outside the licensed place which is likely to 
bue injurious to morality or to encourage or incity to crime or to leall to disordor 
or to offenil the feelings of 

апу 

section of the public or which contain offeusive 
representations of living persous . 
(iv ) The licensee shall comply with all instructions which may from time 

to time โอ 
given by the licensing authority regulating the display of posters of advertisements at 

the biconged place or on any premises annexod thereto 
( v ) At least forty -eight hours before ang filin in exhibited , the licensee shall supply & 

syuopsis of the contents of the filin to the District Magistrate . Provided that the 
District Magistrate may for reasons to be recorded in writing relax the provisions of 
this sub- rule and accept in lieu of a synopsis & hund - hill giving a brief account of 

the filin , 
( vi) No ticket for any performance shall be sold otherwise then from an authorised booking 
clerk at the licenred place or from an agent whose name end place of 

business 
have been votified in advance to the District Magistrate and who has been 

approved 
by the District Magistrato us 4 bulalle person to be appointed us 

agent for 
the sale of tickets 
( vii) The licensee shall make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of 

Police ; Manipar for the orderly marshalling of persoas desirous of purchasing tickets 

at the licensed place . 
( viti ) The number of tickets issued for any perfomanco shall not exceed the scating accumu 

dation prescribed in the Statemont of Conditions annexed to the licence and on every 
ticket issued the following particulars shall be shown : 
(a ) The date and time of the performance . 
(b ) If the auditorium is divided into Aections acoording to the cost of the tickets 

or otherwise the section of the auditorium for which the ticket is valid . 
( c ) The serial number of the tickets . ( If the auditorimm is divided into fections 

according to the cost of the tickets or otherwise, a separate set of serial number 

shall be given for each section ) . 
(ix ) At the time of any epidemic the licensco rhall comply with all instructions that may bo given 

to him by the District Magistrate , or by any medical officer authorisod by the District 
Magistrate to inspect the building under sub -rule (1 ) of rulo 17 , with a view tu cheoking 

the spread of the disease . 
( x ) The liceosee shall not without the permission of the licensing authority assign , sublet or 

otherwise transfer the licence or the licensed place or the cinematograph nor shall the licensee 
without permission as aforesaid allow any other person during the period of cnrrendy 

of the licence to exhibit films in the licensed place . 
47. Any person applying for a a licence under Part III of the Act who is agrieved by the decision 

of the Licensing Authority refusing to grant a licence , muy within 30 days from the date of 
such decision appeal to the Chief Commissioner and the Chief Commissioner may pags 
such oriler tiberein as he may think fit . 
Every order passed in appoal under this rule shall be final, 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 21, 1955 . 


9 


THE FIRST 


SCHEDULE 


SPECIFICATIONS WITH WHIJH COMPLIANCE MUST BE MADE BEFORE 

AN ANNUAL LICENCE WILL BE GRANTED IN 

RESPECT OF ANY BUILDING 

[ See Rule 3 (2 ) ] 
1 (1 ) The building shull either be wholly detached or shall be building abutting and 

having a frontage of adequat length on two or more public ways or open spaces from 

which there are at all times freu means of exit . 
( 2 ) In the care of a building which is wholly detached , the minimum distance between 

it and other buildings shall not be less than twenty fect, and the surrounding space 
shall be unobstructed and shall be such 

as will enable the 

porsons who are to be 
accommodated to disperso repily in the event of fire or panic and permit of the 
approach of fire engines and fire appliances : 

Provided that in the case of a building which accommodates more than one thousand 
persons the distance from other buildings shall be such as the licensing authority may 

hy special order in writing rcquire . 
( 3 ) 

In the case of a lililing which is not wholly detached the public ways , or 
open 
spaces upon whirh it abuts shall be of such width an will cnable the persons who 
are to be accommodated to disperse rapidly in the event of fire and permit of the approach 
of fire engines and fire appliances , 

Provided that one of them shall have a clear width of at least thirty -fivo feet inclu 
ding foot paths and shall be a thorongh road : 

Provided further that in the care of buildings which accommodate more than one 
thousand persons the public ways or open spaces shall be of such width and the 
frontego thereto of such length as the lireuring authority misy by special Ordor in 

writing require . 
(4 ) The frontage shall be considered of adequate length if they form half of the total 

buundaries of the site of the builling " xcluding recesen and projections . 
(5 ) The building shall not be constructed underneath or on top of any part of any other 

building without the special consent in writing of the licensing authority . 
2. No portion of the building fliall be occnpied or, ured as factory workshops, or for storage 

purposes or as a hotel or us for residentinl purposes or for the preparation or sale of food 

or drink , except as the licensing authority may by written order permit . 
8. External walls :-(1) All external and partly walls shall be of brick , mud , stone , corrugated 

iroli or concrete . 
Where the building is in close proximity to anotlier building , it shall be soparated 
therefrom by walls and stractures of fire resisting material in a mr.anter to be approved 
by the licensing authority and no opening in the walls 

part of the 
building such as may be limbole to communjcato fire shall overlonk the neighbouring 

building . 
( 3 ) Any opening in the Luilding over looking an adjacent site 

upon which 

inflamma 
ble structure is erected or upon which i1.flur malle material is stored shall be protected 

to the satisfaction of the licensing authority , 
4. Structural requirments :-(1) All floors , galleries , tiers , posts, coluinne, juists, trusser , stairways 

and landings in the building shall be of fire -resisting material. 
(2) All partitions shall be of fire-resisting material or of wood not less than a one and 

three quarters of an inch thick and sertified by the Executive Engineer to be hard -wood . 
(3 ) All ceilings and penalling shall be made of fire - resisting material or from compressed or 

eynthotio material treated against Haming which bas beon certified by the executive 
Engineer to be saitable for the purpose intended . 


( 2 ) 


(ir in any 


an 


10 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 21 , 1956 . 


( 4 ) All lloors iveluling gulleries , landing and corridore with their supports shall be capable 

of supporting • static load of one hundred pounds per square foot and as an alternativo 
Joailingon divery step or landing shall be strong enough to support a point lead of three 

hundred pounds placoil in uny position . 
( 5 ) Where the first tior or gallery oxtends over the stalls , the height between the flo ir of the 

stalls and such tier or gallery shall not in any part for loss than ten feet ; the height 
between ! he floor of the highest part of the gallery and the lowest part of the ceiling over the 
ramu shall not in any part be less than twelve feet , the height between any tier and 
the tier or ceiling above it shall in nu nase be less than eight feet . 


8. Drainage :-) The building and the compound if any shall be adequately drained to the 

fatisfaction of the licensing authority . 
( 2 ) Except with the written connunt of the licensing authority the lowest floor of the buil 

ding whall not be constructed at a lower level than that at which it can be effectively 

drained by gravity . 
8. Accommodation :-(1) The total number of Apoctators accommodated in the building shall 

not exceed twenty per hundred square feet of the area available for sitting and stan . 

ding or twenty per 1334 square feet of the overall area of the floor space in the auditorium . 
(2 ) A notice showing tho number of spectators permitted by the conditions of the licence 

to be admitted to any one part of the building shall be exhibited at a prominent place 

either at tho entrance of the building or in the auditorium . 
7. Soating :-) The Honting in the building shall be arranged su that there is free access to exits . 
(2 ) The kpacu assignol to each person shall not be less than twenty eight inches deep whero 

backs are provided and not less than twonty - four inches deep where backs are not provided 
and not less than twenty inohos wide where arms aro provided and eighteen where arms 

are nut provided . 
( 3 ) The rows of roata shall be so arranged that there is a clear wpace of not less than 

fifteen inches between the back of one seat and the foreigost portion of the seat arms of 

fiame bebinil , moasured between perpendiculare. 
(4 ) All rente , except thoso in private boxos , shall be securely fixed to the floor and if 

lattened together or made in inka, the complete ink shall be firmly attached to the floor . 
(5 ) The distance between the front row of seats and the screen shall not be less than fifteen 

fect in the case of cinemas existing on 18th March , 1951 , and not less than twenty - five 

feet in case of cinemas coming into existence after 18th March , 1951. 
Gungway :-(1) Gangways not less than forty - four inches wide shall be provided in the buildings 

28 follows : -- 

( a ) Down each side of the auditorium . 
(6 ) Down the centre of the seating scommulation at intervals of not more than twenty 

five feet 
Parallel to the line of the seating so as to provide direct access to exits , provided 

that not more than one gangway for every lou rows shall be required . 
(2 ) All gangwave , exits and the treads of steps and stairways shall be maintained with non 

slipary surface 
( 3 ) Druggetr , matting and floor covering , if proviiled in ganywaye, shall be seenruly fastened 

to the doors , 
( 4 ) The oxits and the gangways and passages leading to exits shall be kept clear of 
obstruction other than rope - barriers provided 

in accordance with sub -rule ( 6 ) . 
On no account shall extra seats be placed in the gangways or spuctators be allowed 
to stand in the gangways at the time of performances in such a way as to blook 

or effectively reduce their width . 
(5 ) If steps have to be inserted a gangway or passage there shall be not less than 

thruc Ateps at any une place . The treads shall not be less than fifteen inches wide 
and shall be of uniform width and heiglit . 


( c ) 


11n 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 21, 1955 . 


11 


( 6 ) Rope barriors in gang ways or elsewhore shall be fitted with clips or fastenings which 

will part in the centre on slight pressure , ani! shall not trail on the floor . 
(7 ) Guard rails not less than three feet six inches abovo floor level shall be provided 

on the para pet at the foot of gang ways in galleries Where the incline of gangway 
exceris fifteen degrees . 


9. Stairways :-(1) There shall be at least two stairways each oot le- s than four feet wide to provide 

access to any gallery or upper floor in the building which is intended for use by the public . 
( 2) The treads and risers on each tlight of stairs shall be of uniform width and height . 

The treads shall not be less than Cloven inches wide and the risers shall not be more 
than seven inches high . 


( 3 ) There shall be no winiers . 


( 4 ) A continuous hand ruil shall be fitted to vach side of stairways . 
(5 ) No stairways shall discharge into a passage or corridor against or 

against or across the diroc . 
tion of exit . 


10. Exits :-(1) Every public portion of the building shall be provided with an adequato number of 

clearly indicated exits placed in such positions and so maintained us to a fford the 

audience ample means of safe ans speedy egrees . 
(2 ) In the auditorium there shall be at least one exit from every tier , Hoor , or gallery 
for every hundred persons accommodated or part thereuf. 

Provided that from every upper floor or gallery there shall be not lefs than two exits . 
Provided further that an exit on or by way of stage or platfo m shall 

not he 
reckuned as one of exits required by this rule . 
( 3) Evory exit from the iudicium shall provide a clear opening space of not less than 

seven feet high and five feet wide . 
( 1 ) Exits from the au.litorium shall be suitably spaced along both sides and along the 

back thereof and shall deliver into two or more different thoroughfaros or open space 
from which there are at ull times free moans of rapid dispersal, 


сар 


(5 ) Every passage or corridor leading from an exit in the auditorium to a final place 
of exit from the building shall be of such width as will in the 

opinion 

of the licen 
sing authority enable the persons who are likely to use it in an emergency to leave 
the building without dangor of crowding or congestion . At no point shall any such 
pasrage or corridor be less than five feet wide and it shall not diminish in width 

in the direction of the final place of exit . 
(6 ) The combined width of the final plaes of exit from the building shall be such that 
there are at least five feet of exit width for every hundred 

persons that 

be 
accommodated in the limilding . 
( 7 ) All exit doors shall open outwards and shall be so fitted that when 

when opened they 
do not obstruct any gangwav , passage, corridor, stairway or landing . 
(8) All exit doors and doors through which the public have to park on the way to the open 

air shall be available for exit during the whole time that the public are in the 
building and during such time shall not be locked or bolted . 
exits auditorium and 

doors or openings (other than the main 
entrance ) intended for egress from the building shall be clearly indica ted by the 
word " EXIT ” in block letters, which shall not be less than seven inches high and 
shall be so displayed as to be clearly visible in the light as 

to be clearly visible in the light as well as in the dark . 
( 10 ) All other doors of opening shall be su constructed as to be 

to be clearly distinguishable 
from exits . They may be indicated by the words “ NO THOROUGFARE " arranged 
ar in the figure below , but no notice bearing the words “ NO EXIST " shall be 
used in any part of the building . 


ווי 
fr 


tlie 


all 


( 9 ) All 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER gi, 1966 . 


NO THOROUGHFARE . 
11 . Pay boxes and chock boxes :-Pay buses, wheck buxes and attendants seats shall bo fixed in 

hiich position in the building that they will not obstruct the nucans vf exit and any mirror , 
picturex notires or advertisements shall be attached to or hung upon tho walls in positions 
in which they will nut be likoly to Citus. obstrution to exits ani shall be fixed flat 

agaiust the wall or kept clear of the head line, that is , suven feet above the floor , 
12. Clouk room accommodations :-(1 ) J rovision shall not be made in the corridors , passages and 

Mtuirways of the building for langing hala anul cloaks. 
( 2 ) Where cloak rooms are provided they shall be no situated that the prreons using them 

will not interfere with the free use of any exit. 
13 , Ventilation : 

-1) The building shall be provided with efficient moans of vontilation direct to the 
open air . 
( 2 ) Unless the auditorium is air -conditional the means of ventilation shall take the form 

of rmural ventilation and power-driven exhanst fitus suitably locafeil anil of adequate 

rize for the purpose intended . 
3 ) Where natural ventilation is provided by windowsor sky lights which have to le darkenell 

or obscured frer permanent top ventilation shall be arranged by means if ridge or 
ceiling ventilators . The clens opening of such ventilators shall not be less than one 

square foot for cvery ten persons that can be accommodated . 
( 4 ) If more than one exhibition is given on any duy the wholo of the auditoriuin shall 

be thashed with aii for at luurt fifteen minutes before each exhibition , no spectators 

being permitted to remain or be in the anulurium during any part of this period . 
14. Sanitary provisions :-(1) The building and compound if any shall be kept free from fuvia 

srixing from draina privicf , or other muisurcer . 
2 ) Separate latrines and urinals shall be provisiod for earl tex . Tlie latrines shall be 

cleaned or Musbat immedintely before and after each performance and shall be washed 

viith phenyle or other sanitary finid it least twice a day . 
15. Parking arrangements :--- ( 1) Such arrangements shall be niale for the parking of motus cars and 

other vehicles in the vicinity of the builling is the licensing authority may require . 
(2 ) No vehicle shall lice parked or :sllowed to stand in such a way as to obstruct exits 

or imperle the rapiil disposal of the persons arcommodate in the building in the event 

of fire or panic 
16. Fire procautions :-- ( 1) l ire extinguishing appliances suitable to the character of the building 

and of a pattern class and capacity upproved by the licensing authority shall be provided 
us prescribed by him . These appliances shall be dispored to his satisfaction AS to 

le readily available for use in case of live in any part of the building . 
(2 ) Thore shall always be sufficient incans of vleuling with the fire readily available within 

the enclosure and there shall include clamp blanket, a portable cheniical fire cxtin 

guisher and two buckets of dry sund . 
(3 ) All fire extinguishing applicances shall at all times be inaintainel in proper working 

order, and available for justaut use , anl all chorpical fire extinguishers shall be capable 

oof withstanding & pressure of not less than 2:10) Ibs . * quare inch . 
(4 ) During an exhibition ull fire extinguishing appliances shall be in charg : of some 

person or persons Frociully appointed for this purpose. Such persons vood not be 
employed exclusively in looking after the fice appliances but they must not be given 
any other work during an exhibition which would take them away from the building 
or otherwise prevent thom from being immediately available in casc of danger 
alarm of fire . 


or 


ENCLOSURE CINEMATOGRAPH AND LIGHTING 
17. The Cinematograph apparatus 

shall be placed in an onclosure of substantial construction 
made of or lined internally with fire - resisting material and of suficients largt dimensionly 
to allow the operator work freely . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 21 , 1965 . 


13 


one 


ន 


screens 


18. (1 ) The enclosure shall be placed outside the Anditorium . 
( 2) It shall be entirely self -contained and shall House only the cinematograph apparatur , 

fire appliancos and such controlling apparatus as most of necessity be placed therein , 
19 There shall lio entrance only to the enclosure fuitally placed unil fitted with a 

relf -clorin ; cloreſitting door constructed of fire- resisting material. 
20. The enclosure and any fitting covering openings thereto shall be made of fire - resinting 
material and shall be so designed constructed and maiotaineid as to prevent 

As far 
possibile when all openings aro clorcal, fire in the enclosure spreailing to the structural 
features and fittings of the building , the emission of smoke to any part of the building 

and grees of air . 
21. Proper and efficient means of ventilation shall be provided in the enclosure in such a manner 

that there sliall be 10 communication with any part of the building to which the public 

is admitted through the medium of such means of ventilation . 
22. The number of openings in the front of the enclosure chall not exceed two projection 

openings , each not more than twenty rynare inches in area and one inspection opening 
not more than thirty - six square inches in area for each cinematograph apparatus or pro 
jector, All such openings shall bo equipped with 

operated that only one 
projection upening and one inspection opening can remain open at any one time and that 
all openings can be automatically clored from convenient positions both from inside and 

outside the euclustare . 
23. No non -synchronous nchine shall be placal in or operated froin the enclosure without 

the written permission of the livenging kuthority . 
2.1 , 

No person other than a qualified operator employed by the licensee and holiling a certificate 
granted by the Electric Inspector or an apprentice duly authorised by the licensee under 

rule 42 shall be allowed to enter or be in the enclosure while an exibition is in progress . 
25. No smoking shall at any time but per united within the barrier or enclosure. 

No intlammable article shall nu necessarily be takou into or allowel to roinain in the 
enclosure . 

PROJECTORS, APPARATUS AND FILMS. 
26 Cinematograph projectors shall be placed on firm supports constructed of fire -resisting 

inaterial and shall be proviiled with a metal shutter which can be readily inserted between the 
fource of light and the film -gate. This shutter shall immediately be dropped in the event 
of an accident to the Cinematographe apparntus or stoppage of the filin and shall only 

be raised when the film is in motion for he purpose of projection . 
27. The film -yatr shall be of massive construction and shall be provided with ample heat 
radiating surface. The passage 

for the lilin shall be sufficiently narrow to prevent flame 
travelling upwards or downwards from the light opening . 
28. Cinematograph projectors shall be fitted with two metal film - boxes of substantial construc 

tion to and from which the films shall be made to travel The - film boxes shall be 
analle to close in such 8 manner and shall be fitted with film slots en constructed as to 

prevent the partage of llamo into tho interior of bux . 
299. Film pools shall be driven by means of chains , gears or belts of fire -resisting material 

and films shall be wound thercon so that the wond film shall not at any time roach 

or project beyond the edges of the flanges of the film spool. 
301. The rewinding of film shall not be carried on in the enclosire while an exhibition is in 

progress 
31. ( 1 ) During an exhibition all films when not in use shall be kept in closed metal boxes . 
( 2 ) 

No illuninant other than #lectric lights or lime- light shall be used within the lautern . 


WINDING ROOM . 


bo cons 


32. (1 ) A soparate room shall be provided for the rewinding of films which shall 

tricted throughout of fire-resisting materinl. 


14 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBBR 21, 1958 , 


( 2 ) All fitting and fixtilres in the winding rooin shall be constructed of fire - resisting 

inaterials and the entrance shall be provide: with a self closing close - fitting door and 
shall not communicate directly with the enclosure, the auditorium or any part of the 
buililing to which the public. are admitted . 

LIGHTING AND ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION 
33. No illuminant other than clertric light shall be used in the building . 
34 (1 ) Provision shall be maile for adequate illumination of the awuitorium and the exits 

therefrom to the outsido of the building including any passays, corridors, landlings and 
stuirways the notices indicating the positions of exits, and all parts of the building 

to which the public are adiniute 
(2 ) During the whole time the public are present in the building tha lighting for pur 

pompy other than the illumination of the Awitorium shall be in operation sufficiently 

tu onable the pullic to seu cloarly the way out . 
35 . The aulitoriuin shall be provided with two independen : lighting circuits taken from the 

muin source of supply in the builling . One circuit (hereinafter referred to 8x the general 
lighting circuit ) which 

not enter the encloruire , may include all exit signs and 
the lighting of all parts of the builling to wh ch the public are admitted , and the other 
(hereinafter referred to as the emergency lighting circuit ) shall be used exclusively for 
the lighting of the auditorium and shall lor controlled from a convenient position within 
the enclosure . 


Inft 


on the 


ami 


36. vi The emergency lighting circuit shall suy ly not less than threr lamps arranged for 

as to avoid , as far as possible, & single l inult extinguishing all the lampi . 
( 2 ) Two way control from both within and without the enclosure may be a lupted for 

the energenry lighting circuit provided that the control f roin viitside the enclosure 
is suitably indicated is not mounted 

brord in 

any of the goneral 
lighting circuit, and is placed in 

such i 

prosition as to be readily handled by a 
member of the cinema staff but inyccessible to the public , 
37. ll . A separate aud distinct circuit Diall be provided for the supply to cinematograph 

lampe . Such circuity shall be controlled by a ruilable inain switch and fuse required 
in pursuance of paragraph 3 :1 of the Schedule ; and there shall be in addition for 
each lamp a totally enclosed doulile pole pron clad switch sul fuse placed in 

convenient position within the enclosure . 
(2 ) When the cinematograph lamp is working the electrical pressure arrons tbe terminals 

of the double - pule switch shall not exceed 110 volts . 
38 . A soparate and distinct circuit shall be provided for the supply of energy to fans , 
39. ( 1 ) Separate main switches aud inain cut -outs shall be provided an near as possible to the 

source of supply in the builuing for the general emergenry . Projector and enro - ure circuits 
and for all fan circuits provided that emergency lighting main switch and circuits are 

fuitably indicated and are not mounted on the same board as any other control. 
( 2 ) All main switches, meters and other electrical apparatus installed near the source of 

pupply in the building shall be huusel in a separato enclosure used exclusively for 

the purpore agil inaccessible to the public . 
40. Except as otherwise « pecially provided in these rules , the elctrical installution shall boin 

accordance with such specifications as may from time to time le prescribed by the Chief 

Commissioner by notification to the Official Gazette . 
41. ( 1 ) Wiring within the enclosure and for the emergency lighting circcuit shall be in screwed 

piping except that where flexible cables are necessary the texible portion shall be 

either steol armoured or enclosed in suitable flexible metallic mlecl in tubing . 
( 2 ) There shall be no unnecessary glock electrio cable within the enclosur , and all cables 

runs shall be 48 short and direct as possible , 
( 3 ) Within the enclosure the insulating material of all electric cables including leads to 

lamps shall be covered with fire -resisting material and the projectors shall have two . 
separate and distinct carthwire . 


MANIPUR G.IZETTE , OCTOBER 21 , !955 . 


15 


SU 


at & 


42. All switches cut- outs and resistances, lights , fans and us] other electrical appliance in the 

enclosure shall be mounted on barie of fire -resisting material and whore practicable shall 
have strong metallic covers enclosing all live parts . Swiich covers shall be arranged in 

such a way that they cannot be opened unless the switch is in the off position . 
48. All metal work supporting or protecting electric supply lines shall be officiently vart hed 

by two separate and distinct connections with the earth . The resistances of the connec 
tione with the earth shall not exceed one ohin and all « arthing leaids shall run in such 
& manner that the course of each may be readily tracoil . Where carthing loads pase through 
walls or 

are Twill in lloors they shall be suitably protected . 
44. Roristances shall be made entirely of fire -resisting material und shall be constructed 
and maintained that 10 coil or other parts shall at any time become unduly 

heated ; 
that is , they shall not become so hented that a piece of paper placed in contact with 
any part of the l esistance would rradily ignite All resistances , with the exception of 
it resistance for regulating purposes , shall be placed outside the encloeure and in a part 
of the building to which the public are not adnittel. 
All furpended filtings or apparatus other tian sma !) single lamp pendiants fitted 
height of lens than ton feet above the floor level of parts of building to which the 
public are admitted shall be provided with satisfactory means of suspension independent 

of the conductors , 
16. I lunt for the generation clectrical ( Ilergy or for cooling purpone , vil engines or other 

prime movers , main circuit transformers , converters , or rertifier s shall be placed in a 
compartment or compartments , the construction and location of which shall be subject 

to the approval of the licensing authority . 
47. Electrical accumulators , unless installed in 

compartments specially reserved 
therefore, shall be completely enclosed together with the terminuls in substantial canings 
constructed of or lines with insulating and fire -resisting material Accumulators in cells or 

coutainers of celluloid shall not be installed , stored os usou . 
18. Electric heaters or radiators shall not loe used in any part of the building which 

the public are admitted except with the consent of the licensing authority and subject 

to such conditions as he may prescribed . 
49. A framail diagram or schedulo iindicating clearly the arrangement of all circuits and sub 

thie 
circuits of the electrical installation , the position 

installation , the position of the distribution boards and 
sizes of cables shall be displayed in the building and shall bu kopt up - to date . 


1000S 


or 


to 


THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


FROM A 


ANNUAL TEMPORARY LICENCE UNDER SECTION 10 

OF THE CINEMATOGRAPH ACT , 1952 


building 
The known as 

situated at ... 

within 
place 
the town of .......... 

in the Province of Manipur is hereby licensel ander 
rection 10 of the Cinematograph Act , 1952 as a place where exhibitions by means of a cinematograph 
may be given . 
This licence has been granted to 

and shall remain in force 
until the provided that thu said 

or any person 
to whom with the consent of the licensing authority tbe licence is transferred continues to own 
or manage the cinematograph used in the said . 


16 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 21 , 1956 . 


This licence is granted, subject to the provisions of the Cinematograph Act, 1932 and of 
the rules made thereunder, and to the conditions set forth in annexed Statement. 


RENEWALS 


Renewel. Valid upto the...... 


Date ..... 


District Magistrate , Manipur , 


Renewed . Valid upto the ....... 


]Date 


District Magistrate , Manipur . 


Renowed . Valid upto the . 


Date ...... 


District Magistrate , Manipur . 


persons who 


several 


STATEMENT OF CONDITIONS 
1 . All building or other regulations for olservance at places of public amusement imposad 
by municipal byelaws or by any other law or by rules under any other law for the time being 
in force , shall be strictly complied with . 

2. Except to such extent us is permitted by the exemption certificate appended here to the 
licensed building /plaou shall be maintained in all respects in strict couformity with the rules , 
contained in the First Schedule and Pari IV of the Manipur Cinematograph Rules , 1955. 

3. The following fire appliances shall be provider , nainely- ( The licensing authority will 
enter here the number of fire appliances of various kinds which are considered necessary and 
state where they are to be dispused vide parapraph 16 of the First Schelule ). 

4. The number of perrons a lmitted at any one time into any part of the licensed building / place 
shall not exneel the number specifiod below as the number of persons who may be accommodated 
in such part. ( This condition may be omitted in the case of temporary licences ). ( The licen 
sing Authority will here enter the number of 

msy be allmitted into the 
parts of the building havin : special regard to the provisions of paragraph 6 of the First Schedule ) 
5. Not less than .... 

* booking offices shall be provided for the sale of tickets 
at the licensed building /place and of these not less than * shall be open and in ure through 
out the half hour imniediately preceding every performance mulesk the licensing authority shall 
have given permission in writing for a smaller number to be kept open . 

number to be kept open . Not less than ....... 
* persons shall be employed for the sale of tickets from the booking office thronghout the half 
hour immediately preceding every porformance , 

6. The liconree shall not admit to any perfomance any person whose ticket therefore bar 
baon purchased otherwise than from an authorisod booking clerk at the licensel building / place 
or froin 

an agent whose name and place of businers have been notified in advance to the 
District Magistrate and who has been approved by the District Magistrate as 
to be appointed as au agent for the sale of ticket . 

7. The licenace shall make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Supurintendont of Police , 
Manipur, for the orderly marshalling of persous desirous of purchasing tickets at the licensed 
building / place . 

8. The number of tickets isaned for any performance shall not exceed the seating acco 
mmodation prescribed in the Statement of Conditions annexel to the licence and 

OD every 
ticket issued the following particulars shall be showed 

(a ) The date and time of the performance. 
( b ) ( If the auditorium is dividod into scctions according to the cost of the tickets or 

otherwise ) 

The section of the auditorium for which the ticket is valid . 
(c) The serial number of the ticket . (If the auditorium is divided into sections according 

to the cost of the tiokets or otherwise , suparate set of serial number shall be 
given for each section ). 


a guitable person 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 2 ).; 1958 . 


17 


86 


than a 


13 . 


or 


9. No firowork shall be used as an adjunot to a cinematograph exhibition . 

* The figures to be inserted here whall be determined by the licensing authority with 
due regard to the namber of persons for whom accommodation is provided in the various 

parts of the building . 
10. Save as the licensing authority may by written order permit , no loud speaker , musical 
instrument gramophone , band , drum , bell horn , whistle , or siran or other device of or creating 
a lowul noise ishail be cmployed or allowed to be used outside the licensed building / place 
an advertisement or to attract attention , nor shall any device be employed which is dosigned 
or serves to deliver the entertainment to persons outside the licensed building / place. 
11. The licensee shall not exhibit or perinit to be exhibited 

any 

film Other 
film which has been certified as fit for public exhibition by Authority constituted under 
section of the 

Act and which , when exhibitod , displays the 

prescribed mark of that 
authority and has not been altered or tampered with in any way since such mark was affixed 
thereto 
12 . 

No poster, advertisement, sketch , Kynopsis or programme of a film shall be displayed , 
solid or supplied other in or anywhere outside the licensed building/ place which is likely to 
be injurious , tu morality or to encourage or incite tv crime or to lead to disorder or to offend the 
fsellings of any section of the public or which contains offensive representations of living persons . 
The licensee shall comply with all instructions which 

may from 

time to time be 
given by the the licensing authority regulating the display posters of advertisements et 
the licensed place or on any premisos annexed thereto . 

14. At least fort.y -right hours before any filin is exhibited the licensee shall supply a synopsis of 
the contents of the filin to the District Magistrate , 

Provided that the Distrirt Magistrato inay for reasons to be recorded in writing relax the provisions 
of this clause and accept in lieu of a proper synopsis a hand -hill giving u brief account of the film . 

15. The license shall, when and so often as the Chief Commissioner may require, exhibit free of 
charge or on such terms us regards rumuneration as the Chief Commissioner may determine, films and 
lantern slides provided by the Chief Commissioner . 

Provided that the licensee shall not be required to cxhibit at one entertainment films or lantern slides 
the exhibition of which will take more than lifteen minutes in all or to exhibit films or slider udlers 
they are delivered to him at least twenty -four hours before the entertajıment at which they are to be 
shown is due to begin . 

16 , At the time of any epidemic the licensee shall comply with all instructions that may be given 
to him by the District Magistrate or loy any medical oflicor authorised by the District Magistrate to 
inspect the building under sub-rule (1 ) of rule 17 with a view to checking the spread of the discare . 

17 . The licenser shall not without the permission of the licensing authority assign , sublet or other 
wige transfer the licence, the licensed building /place or the cinematograph , noi shall the licence with 
out permission as aforesaid allow any other person , during the period of currency of the liconce oxhi 
bit films in the building / place . 

18. The District Magistrate or the Superintendent of Police , Manipur or any officer autho 
rised in this behalt by the District Magistrato may at any time inspect the films which it is 
proposed to exhibit , and the livengee shall make such arrangements for the inspection as the 
jospecting licor may require . 

19 , It shall be opon to the licensing authority to amend or revoke the licence . 

20. The liceufce will not exhibit, or permit to be exhibited , in such place in respect of which 
this licence is given to any person who is 1:01 an ariult any film which has been certified by 
an authority constitute s under Section 7 as suitable for public exhibition restricted to adults . 


FORM B 


TEMPORARY PERMIT 

( See Rule 7 ) 
WHEREAS 

the .... 
holder of an annual licence for the .......... 

... Cinema in Manipur , has 
applied for the renewal of his licence and the paid licence has been retained in my office 
pending disposal of his application , he is hereby permitteil temporarily to exhibit films in the 
said cinema under the Cinematograph Act, 1952 for the period of 
from this date , subject to the provisions of rule 7 of the Manipur Cinematograph Rules, 1955 . 


Dato ...... 


DISTRICT MAGISTRATE , MANIPUR . 


18 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 21 , 1965 . 


FORM G , 


CERTIFICATE FOR A TOURING CINEMATOGRAPH 

( See sulgule ( 2 ) of Rule 19 ) 


In pursuance of sub.rule ( 2 ) of Rule 19 of the Manipur Cinematograph Rules , 

Rules , 1955 , I 
hereby cortify that the touring cinematograph (lefcriboil on the reverse is usable without danger 
to the public . 

The touring cinematograph is /is not of the safety class . This certificate shall remain in 
force , ulerh previously revoked , untill the 

19 .. 


Date ....... 


Electric Inspector, Manipur. 


RENEWALS . 


Renewed . Valid upto the ....... 


. 


Date ..... 


Electric Inspector, Manipur. 


Renewed . Valid upto the ...... 


Date ...... 


Electric Inspector, Manipur . 


DESCRIPTION OF THE TOURING CINEMATOGRAPH . 


Name, particular and aderers ofowner ...... 
Description of apparatus 


Observations 


THE THIRD SCHEDULE 


TABLE OF FEES 


I See Rule 9 ] 


Rs. 75 / 
Rs. 50 / 


... 


Rs. 


1. Inspection fees for permauent cinemus in Manipur State . 

( a ) Initial inspection by the Electric Inspector 

(b ) Annual inspection by the Electric Inspector 
2. Inspection fees for Travelling Cinemas ( Touring " inematograph ) 

( a ) lnitial Inspection 
3. License and Runewal fecs for permanent Cinomur . 

( a ) License fees for one year 
( b ) Renewal fees for one year 
(o ) Licenso fee for travelling cinemas ( Touring cinematograph ) 

for any period uot exceeding sixty duys . 


Rs . 20 / 


Rs. 240 / 
Rs. 240 / 


Rs . 21 


Impbal :- Printed and publisbed by ihe boperintendent Government Press O. 215 / 12-10-58. 


Manipur 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 36 - E - 9 


Imphal, Saturday , October 4 , 1955 . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 19th October , 1956 . 
No. CA /44 /55-15 . --- The Chief Con misioner is pleased to creat a post of Asstt . 
Secretary /Fducation in the dia : ipur Seori tarint on the sanctioned scale of pay for 
Asstt . Secretary to this Administration , i. e . Rs . 230-2-10-30-1 (Con )-25-400-(EB) -25 
600 (EB )-2.5-650 /- plus dearr.ebS allowance , from the date of filling up of the post 
till the end of February , 1 150. 

2 . Tle expenditure will be met out of the sanctioned budget estimates for the 
current year under the Head A. 1 Chief ( ommis - zoner - A1( 1 ) -- ; ay of Officers of 
Account II for the year 1 : 56-56 budgei. 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Minipur . 


N (O TIFIC Α Τ Ι Ο Ν . 

Shillony , the 3rd October , 1956 . 
Subject :-DRAIT CORRECTION To Tar. CoNTRAL Govt. COMPILATION OF TRE ABURY 

Rules Vol . 1 (First EHITJON , SECOND) REPRIST ). 
NOTIFICATION No. TM / 14 / 55 27 . - Two advance copies of the draft correc 
tions to the Central Govt . Compilation of Treasury Rules Vol. I, First Edition , Second 
Reprint are published below for information of all treasury and sul - treasury officers 
and Central heads of departments. 

H. G. Pal, 
Assistant Aocounts Officer. 


Draft correction to the Central Govt . Compilation of Treasury Rules Vol. I ( First 
Edition , Second Reprint). 

No. 197 . 


Pago 230 , Rule 741. 
Insert the following as a note below thi ; rulo 


Note : - A scheduled Bank appl. ing for payınent of the amount of a telegraphic 
transfer may not produce the telegram received from the remiuter, but, instead of the 
mere letter from the Agent /Manacor of the branch concerned advising receipt of 
intimation of the telegraphic transfer and demanding payment sbould be considered 
adequate for the purpose of clause (i) of this rulo . 

No. 198 . 
Page 126 , Rule 384 
After the words " other than United King.lom " in the line 2 of this rule add " and " 
the United State of America . 


3 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 29 , 1953. 


NOTIFICATION. 

Shillong , the 3rd October , 1955 . 
Subject : - DRAFT CORRECTION TO THE CENTRAL GOVT. OUMPILATION OF TREASURY 

RULIS VOLUME II FIRST EDITION REPRINT. 
NOTIFICATION No. TM.14,55 / 28.- An advance copy of the drait corection to 
the Central Govt . oompi ation of Treasury Rules Vol. II First Edition Reprint is 
published below for information of all the treasury and sub - treasury officers and central 
Hends of departments . 

S. 8. Lal , 
Deputy Accountant General (I ), Assam . 


Draft correction to the Central Govt . Compilation of Treasury Rules Vol. II, First 
Edition , Reprint . 
( In the appendix E to Vol. II of C.T.R., add the following as part III :-). 

No. 96 . 
HINTS ON DETECTING COUNTERFEITS OF PURE NICKEL COINS . 
With the introduction of Pure Njokel series of coins in 1946 , comprising Rupees, 1/2 
Rupees and 1/4 Rupees, the design of the - o coins was changed ; the sizes and standard 
weights of the coios romaining the same as in previous issues, except in the case of tho 
Rupea , which became smaller in diamoter ani consequently thicker, the weight re 
maining the same at 180 grains troy- the 1/2 Rupees and 1/4 Rupees weighting 90 grains 
and 45 grains rospectively . l uro Nickel rupees were first issued bearing the dat : 1947 
and 1/2 Rupres and 1/4 Rupees bearing the late 1946 . Pura Nickel rupere rof " 947 
aud 1/2 rupees and 1/4 rupees of 1946 and 1947 bore on their Reverse tho Tiver and on 
the Obverse the effigy of King George VI. No coins bearing the date 1948 and 194 !) were 
minted and issued by the Indian Mints . Pure Nickel Rupeos , 1/2 Rupees and 1/4 Rupees 
of 1950 and on -wards bour on their obverse the Asoka Pillar and on the reverso 
the Ears of coin design . In the Pure Nickel series of coins the rupees are security 
edged , whilst the 1/2 and 3/4 rupees bear a plain willing . 

Adoption of Puro Nickel in itself is a safeguard against counterfeiting . Ove 
of the Chi -f advantago lies in the difficulties of production . Pure Nickel cannot 
reartily be used for the making of small sand castings having & good surface 
finish . As the chief method of the Counterfeiter is to cast individual coins 
in sand or metal moulds , he must employ some alternative medium whioh cin 
readily be detected . A distinctive fouture of nickel 18 that it is magnetic , and 
no other metal wbich might conceivably be considered 

considered suitable for coinage has 
this property . Therefore a magnet can be used as a test of the genuineness of 
puro nickel coins. Further more pure nickel is particularly free from taruishing , 
any dirt or finger marks can be wiped clean with a dry rag . 

Two kinds of counterfeits of puro nickel coins are found viz . cast and struck , 
or a combination of the two . 

Cast counterfeits are the most easily made , and therefore more usually 
found . The mould into which the moiton metal is 

metal is poured , may 

poured , may be made of 
sand , clay , powdered burnt brick , plaster of paris or similar materials and the 
impression on the mould is taken from & genuine coin . The mould has a small 
hole or gate out in the rim , through which the molten metal is poured . The 
metal which fills this hole , and solidifies with the rest of the casting , forms a 
projection on the rim 

on the rim of the cast coin , which must be cut off to enable the 
rim at this point to be finished and milled by hand , and the security groove put in . 
Signs of this hand finishing can usually be detected on the rim of cast counterfeits , 


are 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 29 , 1955 . 


3 


are 


or 


of wear , 


or 


Struck counterfeits made by striking or pressing blanks between dies of 
hard inetal, the designs of which are engraved by hand , or from dies of softer 
metal on which the impressions can be transferred from a genuine coin . The blanks , 
thus struck , inay have boon first cast or cut from sheet inetal. 

Counterfi- its ars more easily detected if cómpired with one inore genuine 
coins of the same design , using a magnifying glass if necessary . A suspicious cuid 
may also be weighed against a genuine cuin showing the same amount 
since most counterfeits which do not contain much lead are lighter than genuine 
coins . 

The only disadvantaye of pure nickel coins is that they have no ring , and 
for centuries Indians have been (accus owed to judge the genuineness of the silver 
coins by listening for the clear ring of high touch silver coins . There is no doubt 
that the ringing test diminished in importance when quatervary alloy coins with 
50 % silver 

were introduced . These coins give a much higher and sharper ring than 
their high touch predecessors. The cumbness of pure nickel coins however is com 
pressed fur by their magnetic properties and any small boy equipped with a cheap 
magnet can azeily distinguish a counterfeit from a genuine coin . 

The thickness of a genuine coin s uniform whilst counterfeits are sometimes 
thicker at one side than at the other , and are often slightly bent distorted . 
Bu th : t they will not lie evenly between two othor coins . 

The rim of q -nuina puro nickel Rupees , 1/2 Rupees and 1/4 Rupees are 
regularly miled and all round with straight indentations at right angles to the fucos , 
but pure nickril rupees have also a security devise in the centre of the willid edge. 
This device consists of a shallow groove with a design consisting of a chain of 
small beads in relief in two sections separated by blank spacos. lo counterfeits of 
these cuins the milling is often at a slant, the spaces between the indentations 
irregular and the indentations themselves uneven or broken . 

The milling can best 
be examined by placing the suspected coin between two yood coins of the some 
description , when defects can readily be detected . 

Coins should not be classed counterfeits solely on account of bad mil . 
ling , since genuine coins are found with worn milling , with portions soldered for 

as ornaments or with the edges filled or touched up . Coins of which the milling 
is good however , are seldom counterfeits. 
The beads 

appear in relief, insiile the security groove on the Rupee 
coins, should be clear cut, well defined , and uniform in size and shape . The blank 
portions of the groove should be equal in lengtb. ln countorfeits, the heads are often 
budly shaped and even in size , the intervening spaces being sometimes filled with 
metal. The blank portions usually shown signs of metal having been scooped out 
by band , resulting the broken willing on either side of the blank portion , und 
possibly a wider groove in genuine coins. 

The dëvices on th ) obvers ) ail reverse sloull be clear and well define.l. 
especially in outline . 

Blurred lines or edges and au in perfect impression (unless 
plainly due to wear and ter] are suspicious. Letters and figures of the inscrip 
tion should be clear well defined and rounded . Blurred , irregular, or double lines 
are to be regarded with suspicion . Io soire counterfeits the letter are much thinner 
than on genuine coins. 

The table or plain surface of the roin ( i. e . the portion not oocupied by 
any design or i:-scription ) should be smoth , even and free from blemish . An uneven , 
-spotted or rough surface with irregullar modes of metal thereon is suspicious. 


18 


which 


4 


MANIPUR GAZETI , 


) 


All cast quins aro counterfeits . In a ca - t oin the surface is usually rough , or 
pitted with minute holes. The rim is usually defective , particularly at the gate 
or point where the metal was youred int , the mould . 

In the case of struck counterfeits, it is not unusual to find serveral with indentical, 
marks or defecla , having been struck from the samo dies . The milling is usually very 
irregular . In the case of cast counterfeits , the rilling and the design in the groove 
are often crenly spaced , except at tbe gate where the surplus metal has been 
removed . 

Genuim coins which hive suffere:1 by the actio : of chemicals of fire may have rough 
and discoloured surfices though they are suspicious coins should be : ent to one of the 
Mints for examination . 

Count rfcits made from a mixture of tin and lead art soft and evsily bont, and 
will sometimes emit à crackling nois : when bi nt between the fingeswhile being beld 
close t .) the l ar . 

The above hints are also help ul in dote : ti :ng ( ounterfeits of Cupro Nickel Soins 
and Bronze Coins of the years 1946 ind onwords, osc.pt that there coins are 
magnetic and their designs were altered in the ye.r 1950 . 

The two anna , one anna and half anna cupro -nickel csins of 1951) and onwards 
bear the Asoka Pilliir on the obverse and the A :soka Bull on the reverse . T heir woights , 
sizes and sliapne remaining the same as that of their pr. decese or s. The Br .nze sin le pire 
of 1950 bears the Avoki Pillar on the obserge and the Asok : II 158 n Die revers !. 

It is 
circular in shape and weivhs of 60 grains . From 19:11 onwirds the bronze single pice 
weighs 45 grains , all other features remaining the same as for 195 ) egopp that the coins 
of 1951 and ouwards are thinner than those of 1.950 , due to the reduction in wicht. 


non 


NOTIFICATIO V. 

Shilling , the 3rd October , 1965 . 
Subject -- Amendments t.:) chapter III of the execut .vh instructio : 18 contained in l art 

XIV of the Cent •al Govt . compilation of treasury Ru es Vol. I. 
NOTIFICATION No. TM.14,55,29 .-- An adv :Inch copy of the draft correcti in to 
the Central Govt. compilation of Treasury Biles Vol. I is pub ish4.1 baliw for in 
formation of all the trcasury and Sub - Treasury Officers and Central Heads of depa.tm.nts . 

S , 5 LA1, 

Deputy Accountait General (I) , Ass , m . 
Amendments to chapter III of the Execu ! ive instructions contained in part XIV 
of the Contral Govt . compilation of treasury Rules Vol. !. 

No 199 . 
1. Replace the existing paragraphs 20 and 21 by th , following . 

Chapter III Coin . 

Kind , of coin and Lucal Tender . 
20). Under the Indian Coinage Act (Act IJI of 19 6 ) as amended from time 10 
time the following coins have been issued : 

(i) Silver Rupee, half-rupee , quarier -rupee and eighth -rupee. The sandard weight 
of the rupee is 180 grains troy , eleven-i welfth fia and the oth r silver roj.:8 are 
of proportionate weight. Silver i upues, half -rupees and quarter-rupe.:8 issued under 
the Indian coinage ( Third Amendment ) Ordinance, 1940 , Iulian Coinage (Amendment ) 
Act (Act VI ) of 1940 , respectively , are one- half fine. 

Note :-Under Act IV of 1919 , silver eighth rupees are no longer coined and 
issued . Coins previously issued continue to be legal tondor under the conditions 
specified in this obapter. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 29 , 1935. 


5 . 


apna , 


9 


( ii ) Pure Nickel-Rupees ( issued under the Indian Coinage (Amendment) Act, 1947) 

and half - rupoes and quarter -rupees since the standard weights of which 

are 180 , 90 and 45 grains troy respectively . 
( iii) Cupro -nickel-eight anna piece, four anna piece , twu anna piece , one anna 

piece and half anna pince , the standard weights of which are 121 , 105 90 , 

60 and 45 grains troy respectively . 
Note :-Cupro -Nickel eight -anna pieces are nut issued now . The coins already 
issued haue been called in under Section 15A of the Indian Coinage Act. 
( iv ) Nickel Brass - Two anna pieces, one annt piece and 

annt piece and half -anna piece , the 
standard weights of which are 90 , 60 and 45 grains troy respectively . 
( v ) Copper and Bronze - Single pice or quarter anna , half pice or oue- eight of 
an anda , and tho pie or one - twelfth of an 

The types 

and weights 
of the above coins are detailed below : 
Single pice ( copper ) 

100 grains 
(bronze King s Head ) 

75 
Washer Type ) 

30 
Asoka Pillar ) 

60 
Asoka Pillar ) 
1951 and later jaguos 

45 
Half pice ( copper ) 

50 
( bronze ) 
Pie Pieces (copper ) 
( bronze ) 

25 
21. Subject 
Subject as 

as provided 

provided in para 22 below , the rupee coins are legal tender 
to any anount , half-rupees for any sum not exceeding ten rupees and all other coins 
for any sum not exceeding one rupee , provided they satisfy the requirements of 
paragraph 30 belew . Copro - nickel eight-anna pieces are now logal tender only at 
Issue Department of the Reserve Bank of Iudia . 

(ii) Para 22 (1 ) : In line | substitute the words (eighth -rupees for eight rupees ) . 
( iii ) Para 

22 ( 2 ) : In line 3 substitute ‘have consed for ceasel in line 7 sub 
stitute its for bis . 
( iv ) Paru 22 ( 3 ) : In line 4 substitute hare ceased for cense . 
( v ) Replace the existing paragraphs 23 to 27 by the following : 

23. Doublu pice coined and issued under the Coinage Act of 1835 and subse 
quent Acts are legal tender for any sum not exceeding one rupee. 
24. Deleted . 

RECEIPT OF COIN AT TREASURIES AND SUB - TREASURIES . 


37.5 , 
33. 333 ,, 


sum 


25. The following iostructions should regulate the receipt at treasuries and sub 
treasuries of sin | cuin , and of coin which is not legal tender : 
(i) Subject as provided in paragraph 32 above half rupees and small coins of 

all denominations should be recoived in payments to the Govt. to any amount , 
although they are logal tender only for a not exceeding ten rupees 

and one rupee respectively . 
(ii) Silver -coins ¡issued before 1st September 35 , that is to say , 

that is to say , all silver 
coins issued by the East India Company hearing merely inscriptions in Indian 
charactor ( chief among which are the coins known as " Furrukhabad ” and “ Mur 
sidabad " rupees) should be received at the treasuries at the following rates : 


6 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 29, 1955 . 


( 1 ) at 8 annas a tola , for each tender of 500 coins or less ; 

and 
( 2 ) fur amounts in excess of this number, at bullion value calculated at the 

market rate of silver, of hh day to be ascertained from the Manager, 

Reserve Bank of India , Bombay . 
( iii) Copper coin bearing any trace of mintage by 

the East India Company , 
e . g ., coin having as a device a pair of scales and XX cash (of 
the value of one - third of au anvia ) should be received in paymont of 

Govt. dues upto any amount, 
( iv ) Gold moluurs coined under the Gold Coinage Act (XIV of 1918 ) should 
bo seccived for exchange at 

Rs. 1 :3 / - cicli , if they are not counterfeit 
and if not of less 

weigh than 

11:21 grains and if they have not been 
fraudulently defaced . A coin which dous not fulfil these conditions should 
be returned to the tenderer. The coins thus exchanged should not be 
transferred to currency chest but retained in the treasury , pending re nito 
tance to 

tle Josu ; Departinnit of the Reserve Bank of India at the 
earliest opportunity . 
( v ) Deleted . 
26 . Deleted . 

EXCHANGE OF SMALL COIN . 
27. Half-rupees aud -mall coins of all iteruminations ( subjec tú any special 
instructions which may be issued for their withdrawal ) should be issued fruely to 
persons wishing for them , wither in piyment of clir, 18 ilgainst the Government, or 
in exchange fur r1 ; ces, or for notvs whic , the treasury may be chashing. Treasury 
Officers are responsible for secing th :10 il 8 liciout stuk of small cins is maintained 
to meet all fiicli dituanus . 


. 


X. 


(vi) In line of pilit 31 ( 2 ) , delete the word Silver or nichel. " 
( vii ) Iu Jines 1 and 2 , of piirid 34 , delet . the words Silier or nickol. 
( viii) In line 7 of par .. 35 , for the worls Calcuttit Bombay or Lahoreo" substitute 

Alipore ( alcutta ) or Bombay ." 
( ix ) In iine 1 of pitri 18 , substi ule an issue D :sp : rtment of the Reserve Bank 

of Indii for i larre.oy Oilice . in line 3 : f the same para before the 
Word Treasury add or b anch of any other bank acting as an agency of 
the Reserve Bank . 
In line 2 of p: ira 4 :3 ( ii ), in lines 2 and 7 of para 45 ( 1 ), and in line 3 
of para 45 (2 ), delete the word ‘Vritish . In line 4 of para 45 ( 2), after 

the word Treasuries insert or . 
xi . Delete the last sentence of sub - piiragr: plı ( 2) of para 47 . 
xii . in line 3 of para 48 ( 1) , delete the com a after if and insert it before 

that word . In line 6 of the same para delete and after the words “ pieces 

of metal. 
xiii In line 11 of para 49 , delete the word Local . In lines 12 and 16. of the 

same para delete the words Iinperial Bank of India and substitute in their 

place agency bank wherever they occur. 
xiv Para 50 : Delete this paragraph . 
XV . Substitute the following for sub - pura ( 1 ) of para 51 : 

51 ( 1) The above instructions provine for the withdrawal of counterfeit , light 
weight and defuce coin from circulation , but in order to maintain the currency 
in tbe hands 

hands of the public in as good condition as possible, the following 
cains should also be withdrawn frim circulation whenever they are received 
at , a treasury , although they, are legal tender : 


1 


1 


-- 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 29 , 1955 . 


BON 


(i) Rupees and half rupees of the nintage of 1835 . 
( ii ) Silver rupees , half rupees árid quarter -supues which are one half fine ( issued 

in 1940 and after ) . 
( iii ) Cupro- nickel four anna coins . 
( iv ) Nickel-brass coins of all denominations. 
( v ) Copper double pioce coins . 
( vi) All single piece coins except these bearing the Asoka Emblem . 
(vii) Pure Nichel cupro-nickel and bronze coins which are so worn that the de 

nomination and date aro easily decipherable . 
( viii ) Copper coins which are defaced or badly worn or which for any other rea 

are considered to be untit fris circulation . 
( ix ) Silver quarter rupees and one-eighth rupees . 
xvi. In lines 3 and 4 of para 63, for the words “ Calcutta , Bombay or Lahore ” 

substituto " Alipore (Calcutta ) or Bumbay “ . 
xvii. Para 55 . Delete the sub - paragraph (9) and also delete the number " ( 1 )" 

appearing against the existing sut -paragraph ( 1) or paragraph 55 : 
xviii. In lines 2. vi and 14 of pura 56 ; 3 ), substi! ute the words " State for Pro 

vincial . Delete the words as the caso may be in line 3 und als ) delete 
the words " ur the Head of the Local Administratii u ” wherever they oocur 

in this par.1 56 ( 3 ). 
xix . In line 10 of para_62 ( ), substitute the words ‘ayency banks for the words 

Imperial Bark of India ? In line 11, dulete the word Local 
In line 1 of pari 66 , Bubstitute this for their . 


) 


XX . 


ORDER 

Implial, the 12th October , 1955 . 
No. V.10.FD.-ORDER Pub , 55. — The following notification issued by the Govt . 
of India , Ministry of Information & Broadcasting is republished for general information , 

New Delhi- 2 , the 6th October , 1955 . 
S. R. O. In pursuance of cluse 2 of the directions issued under the provisions 
of each of the enactments specified in the ! irst Schedule to the Order of the 
Government of India in the linistry of Information & Broadcasting No. S. R. O. 
946 dated the 28th April , 1965 the Central Government with previous approval of 
the Film Advisory Brard , Bommy hereby certifies the film specified in column 2 
of the schrdule hereto annexed , in all its language versi 18, to be of the description 
specified against it in the corresponding entry of coluinn 5 of the said schedule , 

SCHEDULE . 


S. No 


Title of the 

filma . 


Name of the 

producer . 


Source of 
supply . 


Whether a scientific film är 
& filmy intend d for educa 
tional purpose or a film dea 
ling with news aud current 
events 

documentary 
film . 


or 


1 . 


2 . 


3 . 


4 . 


5 . 


1 . 


Indian News Government of 
Review No.364 . India , Films 

Divis.on , 
Bombay . 


Government of Film dealing with news 
ludia Films and current events . 
Division , 
Bombay . 

( 1 / 16 /55 - F : A pp / 52 ) 


Gopendra Sharma, 
Publicity Officer , Manipur . 


8 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 29 , 1965 . 


Ν Ο Τ ΙΟ Ε . 


No. T / 24-25 / 55 . 

Imphal, the 10th Ootober, 1955 . 
Sealed teuders will be received from the registered contractors upto 12 Noon 
of 31-10-55 in the Office of the Executive Engineer, Irrigation 

for 
the undermuntiuned works. Details may be had from the Office of the undersigned during 
office hours . 
Name of work , 

Estimated cost . 

Earnest Money 
1 . Construction of 3 J. O. C. s 
Quarters for Manipur Rifles at Imphal, Rs. 32,013/ 

Rs. 800 / 
Construction of Office Building 
for the Agricultural Department 
ut Iwphal. 

Rs. 88,140 / 

Rs. 2,200 / 
Y. Tombi Singh , 

Executive Engineer , 
Irrigation Division , Imphal. 


2 . 


: 
: 
: 


NOTICE No, 20 . 

Imphal, the 19th Oct. , 1985 . 
Applications in their own hand -writing ) stating age, qualification , experience, number 
of wives living , knowledge of one or more local languages etc., are invited for the following 
posts . 
Si. Nu . Nam ; of pusts . 

Soale of pay . 
1 . Ono post of teacher in Sawombung 

Rs . 55-2-75 - EB - 3-90 /-p.m . with 
M.E. School. 

usual D.A. 
2 . One pont of pandit in Moidang pok 

Rs . 30-1-36 - EB - 1-40 / -p.m . with 
Rural L.P. School. 

usual D.A. 
Ono temporary post of orderly to 

Rs. 22-1-28 / - p.m. with usual 
the Deputy Inspector of Schools 

D.A. 
Valley . 
Minimum qualifications for ( 1 ) & ( 2 ) : 

-Matriculate of a recognised University (I.A. or I. So. 

with Hindi koowledge preferred for the post of tez 

cher in M.E. School). 
Applications will be received by the undersigned by the 4.11.55 during office hours and 
candidates are to attend the office on the 7th Nov., 1955 for a preliminary selection . 

B. C. Roy , 
Offg . Doputy Inspector of Schools , 

Manipur ( Valloy ). 


3 . 


Imphal, the 20th October, 1955 . 
No. 8 / JS / II/55-56.- It is horoby notified for general information that pursuant to 
section 20 of the Societies Registration Act XXI of 1860 , ao Association under the 
name and style of the New Popular Club has been incorporated and numbered as 
8 of 1955-56 dated the 20th Ootober, of the your one thousind nine hundrod and 
fifty five Anno Domini. 

U. M. SINHA, 

Registrar , 
Juint Stuck Oumpanies, Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , OCTOBER 29 , 1955 . 


9 


Imphal, the 20th Ootober, 1955. 
No. FA / 12 /54. — The following letter N :). 6 / /55 - SCT dated 24-9-55 received from 
the Deputy Secretary to the Govt . of India , Ministry of Home Affairs, New Dehli is 
republishod for general information . 

Ο ΚΑΤΗΙΡΕΙ , 

Asstt . Secy . ( T , ibal) to the Govt. of Manipur . 
Subject :-Reservation of vacancies for Scheduled Castes und Schyduled Tribes . 
With reference to your letter Nu. FA / 12 /54/ 17 , dated the 27th February 1955, on 
the above subject , I am directed to say that the Government of India have decided 
that in the case of direct recruitment to Class Ill and Class IV posts and services 
in the Manipur State , 20 % (twenty per cent) of the vacancis should by reserved for 
Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes taken together . As the population of Scheduled 
Castes in the State is negligible , the bulk of the vacancies so reserved will be available 
to members of Scheduled Tribes . 

2. As regards direct recruitment to Class I and Claus II posts and services under 
the State Government , the reservatious laid down for Scheduled Castes und schduled 
Tribes in sub - paragraphs ( a ) and (b ) of paragraph 2 of this Ministry s Resolution 
No. 42/21/ 49 -NGS, dated the 13th September 1950 , sb.uld continue to be followed . 
However , if suitable candidates belonging to sch : duled Castes ar not avai alle for 
appointment to vacancios reserve.l for that community, the vacancies shonld be treated 
as reserved for Scheduled Tribes and vice versa , in accordance with the orders contined 
in this Ministry s Office Memorandum No. 42 / 32 / 53 -NGS ( SCT ) , dated the 7th December 
1954 , & copy of which was forwarded to the State Government with the late winistry 
of States letter No. 33 (21)-S / 54 , dated the 17th December, 1934 . 


Imphal, the 29th Oct. , 1955. 
No. 1-Co/ 19/55. - As required under Section 43 ( 4 ) of the Co -operative Societies 
Act II of 1912 , any objection or suggestion made in connection with 

with the draft 
amendment to the Co -operative Societies Rules published in the Manipur Gazette No. 
27 dated the 31st August, 1955 is heresy called for from the public and will be 
received upto the 17th November , 1955 by the undersigned . 


K. Gourakishore Singh . 
Asstt . Secretary (MVT) to ihe Govt . of Manipur . 


Imphal, the 22nd October , 1955 . 
are invited from Bonafide labour suppliers for supnly of labour for 
unloading and loading of articles from /to vehicles to / from Gdown in Manipur 
State Transport , Imphal. Proper stacking and woigbmı nt of pack uges either damaged 
or otherwiso as and where required will be done by the suppliers at their crist . 
The tenders should be in rate per mand and reach tbe undersigne: on or before 7-11-55 
and will be opened on the next day at 10 A. M. before those who eleot to be pre 
sent. The successful tenderer will have to deposit a sum of Rs. 100 /- as security in 
cash within seven days of acceptance of tender . 

The undersigned reserves the right to reject the lowest or any tender and is 
not bound to assignedy reason thereof. 


S. Palit , 


Officer on Special Duty , M. S. T. Imphal. 


Imphal :-Printed and published by ihe Superintendent Government Preu 0. 205 / 29-10-15 


Manipur Gazette 


STE 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 37 


Imphal, Wednesday , November 2 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


1 


Part 1. - Appointments , l ostings , l ransfers , Puwers , 

Leave and other personal notiore, 
Part II. - Rosolutions, Rogulations , Ordern , Votifi 

cations, Rules etc. 


Part Ill..Ordors, Nctifications, Rules of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Notices etc. 


2 to 5 
6 to 12 


I to 2 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENE OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 19th October, 1965. 
No. CA /44/65-13 .-- The Chief Commissioner is pleased to appoint Shr. Tb . Kula . 
chand Singh , Asstt . Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur as State Trading Officer 
in charge of the Govt. scheme for purchase of rice and paddy in Manipur from 
the date of his appointment till further orders . 

2. Shri Kalachand Singh would be entitled to his Grado pay a8 Aastt . Secy . 
to the Government plus a special pay of Rs. 50 / - per month . 


Impbal, the 19th October , 1955 . 
No. CA 44 /55-17 . - The Chief Commissioner is pleased to appoint Shri L. Mani 
bar Singh , Deputy Inspector of Schools ( Valloy ) who was recently acting as the 
Inspector of Schools to the post of Asstt. Secretary / Education created under Order 
No. CA /44/ 55-16 dated 18-10-55 till further orders. 


A. K. Ray, 
Chief Secretary to the Govty of Manipur . 


PART II 


Imphal, the 21st October , 1955 . 
No. R / 7 / 5419 )/31, -The Chief. Commissioner is pleased to sanction the crastion . 
of a temporary post of Suh -Deputy Collector on the scale of Rs. 160-150-2001 Qon ) . 
19-269 (EB )-10-300-121-370 (EB )-121-460 /- in the Imphal Treasury from the date it 
is filled up till the 29th February , 1956 . 
The expenditure involved will be met from the Budget of the Deputy Commis 
Manipur. 

A. K. Ray . 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


pioner : 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , YOVE UBER 2 , 195.) . 


: 
: 


) 


Imphal, the 22nd October , 1955 . 
No. F -DPC /20 / 55 .-- The Chief Commissioner is pleased to extend tbe term of the 
Project Advisory Board of the Thoubal Community Development Block constituted 
under this Administration Order No. DPC / 4 /52/ 7 dated 16. 9. 52 , upto the 29th 
February , 1953 and to reconstituto the Bourd with the following members : 
Officials 

Chairman . 
1. Development Commissioner, Manipur 
2. Project Exccutive Officer, Thoubal 

Member & Secretary . 

Member , 
3 . Director of Industries 
4. Director of Agriculture 
5 . Chief Medical Officer 
6. Inspector of Schools 
7 . Executive Engineer ( Irrigation ) 
8. Veterinary Asstt. Surgeon , Impbal 
9. Marketing Officer , Director of Indus. Office 

Non -Officials 
10 . Shri klangbam Nodi Singh (E. ( . M.) 
11. 

Pukhrambam Tomchou Singh ( E. C. M.) 
12 . 

Sorok haibam Chourajit Singh (E. C. M.) 
13 . 

L. Chavyaima Singh (E. C. V.) 
14 . Md . Alimuddin (E. C. M.) 
15 . Suri Maibam Gokul Singh (Representative of 

the Panchayat ) 
16 . W. Mani Singh (Representative of the 

Bazar Board ) 
17 . 

W. Gouramani Singh -do 
18 . 

Th . Shyamo Singh -do 
19 . 

Two nod -otlicial muinbors to be selected by the Developinent Commissioner , 
one of whom my be lady. 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


20 . 


PART III 


NOTIFICATION. 


Imphal, the 17th October , 1955 . 
No. J/5 /54. - The following notification published in the Gazette of India , No. 
39 Part 1 [ -- Section 3 dated 24-9-55 is republished for general information : 

New Delhi, the 19th September , 1955. 
S.R.O. 2063. - In pursuance of clause ( 1) of article 239 and cltuse ( 1) of article 
243 of the Constitution , the President herolsy directs that, subject to his control, 
the Lieutenant Governor or Chief Commissioner, as the 

case may be of a Part 
C State ( including the Andaman and Nicobar Islands) sball, in relation to the State 
concerned , exercise the powers and discharge the funotions of a State Government 
under the Hindu Marriage Act , 1955 ( 25 of 19:36 ) . 

( No. F. 80( 72 )/55 -G .) 


G. R. RAJAGOPAUL , Joint Socy . 


A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , N )VEMBER ?, 1956 . 


NOTIFICATION 

Implial, the 1011 October, 1953 , 
No J, 15 /54.- The following State Bank of Inlia (Amendment) 
Act 1953 is republished for general information . 

T. Kalachand Singh , 
Asstt . Secretary to the ( jovt. of Manipur , 


THE STATE BANK OF INDIA (AMENDMENT) ACT , 


1955 
( 33 of 195.) ) 

An 
ACT 


to amend the State Bank of Indiu Act, 1955 . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixth Year of the Republic of 
India as follows : 


Short title 


23 of 1955 . 


1. This Act may be called thu State Bank of India (Amendment ; 
Act , 1955 . 

2 In sub - sertion ( 1) of section 5 of the Stato Bank of India Act , 
1955 ( hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), for the words and 
figure " transferred to it by paragraph 2 of the First Schedule " , the 
words and figure " transferro lo ani vestod iu it under section (i" shall 
be substituted . 


Amendment 
of section 5 . 


Amendment 
of section 6 . 


3 In section 6 of the principal Act, for sub - section ( 3) , the following 
fub -section shall be substituter , namely : 
" (3 ) Inless otherwise expressly provided by or unler this Act, all 

Conradores , duris , budi , agreements , powers atto : noy , 
giants of legal representation and other instruments of what 
ever nature rubrisling or having offict immediately before 
tho appointed day and to wbich the Imperial Bank is a party 
or which are in favour of the Imperial Bauk shall be of ar 
full force and effect against or in favour of the State Bank , as 
the care mny ber , and may be enforced or artrd uponas fully 
a nd effectually as if instead of the Imperial Bank the State 
Bank had been a party thereto or as if they had been issued 
in favour of the State Bank . " 


Amendment of 
Section 16 . 


Substitution 
of new section 
for section 51 . 


Requirements 
of fireign law 
to be complicd 
with in certain 
CANCS . 


4. In sub - section ( 3 ) of section 16 of the principal Act , after the 
words " in existence , the words “ in India " shall be inserted . 

5. For section 31 of the principal Act , the following section shall be 
sabatituted , namely : 
“ ; l. If, arcording to the laws of any country outsiile ludia, the 

provisions of this Act by themselves are not effective to 
transfer to and vest in the State Bank any arnet or liability 
which forms part of the undertaking of the Imperial Bank 
and which is situate in that country , the Imperial Bank sha ]] 
take all rich reps as may be required by the laws of that, 
country for the purpose of effecting or perfecting such transfer 
ind vesting , and in connection therewith the Imperial Bank 
may realise any asset and discharge any liability and transfer 

the nel proceeds thereof to tie State Bank ." 
6. After wertion 53 of the principal Act, the following sections shall 
be inserted , namely : 
" 54. The Imperial Bank of Indian Act, 1:20 , shall be amended in 

the manner directed in the Fifth Schedule . 
55. On and from the appointed day , no person shall inake any 

claim or iemand or take any proceeding in India against the 
Imperial Bank ur director , officer or other employre thereof 
in his capacity as such director, ufficer or employce except in 
so far as inay be necessary for enforcing the provisions of 
this Act or except in so far as it relates to any offenco com . 
mitled by any such director, officer or employee . 


Insertion 

sootions 
54 , 55 , 56 and 
$ 7 . 


XLVII of 1990 . 


Amendment 
of Aot XLVII 
of 1920 , 


No prooording 
to lie in India 
against Impe 
rial Bank after 
appointed day . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER % 1996 . 


XLVII of 1920 . 


ReferonCOR to 
the 

Imperial 
Bank , the 
Banks of 
Bonkal, etc., 
in other laws. 


56. On and from the appointed day, any reference to the Imperial 

Bank or to the Bank of Bengal , the Bank of Madras or the 
Bank of Buin lay in any law (other than this Act or the 
Imperial Bank of India Act, 1920 ) or in any contract or other 
inftruinent shall , except as otherwise provided in any general 
ul special order made by the Central Government , be deemed 
to be a reference to the State Bank , 


XLVII of 1920 . 


Dissolution of 
Imperial 
Bank , etc. 


57. ( 1 ) On ruch day as the Central Government may , by notifi 

untion in the wficial (iazelle, specify in this behalf , tho 
Imperial Bank shall stand dissolved , and the Imperi:s) Bank 

of india Act , 1921 , shall stand repealed . 
(2 ) Ou the day specified in the notification ander sub - section 

( 1), thu State Bank shall pay to the Rereivu Bauk a suin of 

teu laklıs of rupees . 
( 3 ) If, on the cay sperified in the notification inniler sub- reotion 

( i ) The Imperial Bank has in its pofsession or cartoly any 
useets created 0 or after the appointed duy , such aspets 
shall be disposed of in accordance with tho 

directions 
issued ly the Central Governinent in this behalf ." 
7. After the l ourth Schelule to the principal Act , the following 
Schedule shall be wilded : -- 


Insertion of 
noW Schedule , 


23 of 19.13 . 


" THE FIFTII SCHEDULE 

[ See scclion 54 ) 
AMENDMENTS TO TILE IMPERIAL BANK OF INDIA ACT , 1920 . 
Sertion 2 , - (a ) Omit clause s (c ), fers , f , (y ) und ( ii ) . 
(6 ) For cluures (j ), (k ), (? ) and ( m ), substitute 
" ( j ) State Bank means the State Bank of India con 

stituiled under the State Bank of Invia Act , 19:503 ." . 
Section 3. - a ) in sub-section ( 2 ), for the words “ Every person 

who , immediately lw fore the appointed day , was registered 
as 1 shareholder or as a holder of stock in any of the 
Presidency Banks , logether with me uther perfuns as may 
from time to limo become plasebolders in the Bank in 
sul coreutice with the provisions of this Act, shall , ar lung 
as they are shareholder s 

in the Bank substitute the 
following , namely : - " The persons who for the time being 
aro holding oflice as chairman , vice -chairman and ina naging 
director of the State Bank hull” . 
(6 ) For sub- section (3 ). substitute 
“ ( 3 ) The capital of the 

Bank 

hall consist ten 
lakhs of rupees which shall be paid to the Bank by 
the Reserve Bank of Indir on the 1st day of July , 
1955." . 


Head Otħoe of 
the Bank , 


Goneral supe 


(c ) Omit sub- section ( t . 
Omit sections 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 13 , 13.1 , 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 and 20 . 
For Section 23 , substituto tho fullowing : 

* .23 The Bank shall have its Head Office in Bombay . " . 
For section 23 , substitute the following : 
" 24. ( 1 ) The general superintendence of the affairs and buri. 

nesk of the Bank shall be entrusted to tbe chairman for 
the timo being of the State Bank who may exercifo all 
powers and do all such arts and things as may be exer 
cised or dono by the Bank or whicb , immediately before 
the 1st day of July , 1955 , were required or permitted to 
be eexercised or done by the Central Buard 

or by any 
Local Board of the Bank , and Rocordingly references to 
the Central Board , 

in this Act or in any Regilo 
Iations made thereunder shall be construed as reforences 
to the chairman for the time being of the State Bank . 


rintendonce of 
affairs and bu 
minors of Bank , 


if any 


NIPUR CETTE NOVEMBAR 1955 


26 , 26 , 


ko 


ili, S 


. 


-- 


Wohalt of 


1 


- 


fomotiga Apukorment on the chairman 
d the 8t 

Sub - rbobino ( 1) may be exéroised 
or para 

per i Amateur emplogue of 

Kuthorised by the chairmua 
Motoril o equoidt finder 
sections 

31- * bection (2), amit cleared and to it. 
Suption 32 - bmit aub- section ( ), 
After section 82, insert the following : 
" 324. (1). Every parypa fother than the Managing Director, and 

Depaty Managing Director ) who, immediately before the list 
day, of Jolj , 1965 ) and pushorny bonfered by any botilotion 
Hanod ander : Regulation $ 1.of Belied ubo - IL er under brandar 
26.made andere homotion : 311 or wander unge power of forces 
Ernated by the Banko to a 5 SAT inatçament or pertoem on 
do any , aot or thing , for and on behalf of the Bank , shall, oa 
and from tho motosiid dute , dontinue to i bute the same au 
thoritataball ,not by negrop . Planything , coplnind in 
bo State Bank of India Act, 1956 , be deemed to have vyoated 
any office or einfliymon t held by him in the Bank immedi. 
ately before the aforumaid . chemoteria gomonetaan rith which apph 
atbyrity ,had , bomo.conferred on him , but the Bang may at 

dáy time ratoke soy such dathority . 
phong Without prejudice to wny vther provision contained in this 

Act : the Beat.Payimby power of Attorney , compareciday 
Pexeon for pad go behalf of the Banke to execute apy, instru , 
ment or to exeroine , 407 right or to perform or do any act or 
thing whioka may be excoated , exéroised , -performed or done 

by the Bank ." 
In Sohedulo II , 

(~ ) Omit Regulation 1 to 48 ; 
(6) for Regulation 49 , sabatituto 
“ 29. The common seal of the Bank iball not be abjied to any 

ingtramang epeath in the prevenog up the Ahmiryo ve the vigo . 
Chairman or managing director of the State Bank , who 
sheli olga his name to the instrument iä token of his pre 
spnoo , nad, sach mining whall be independent of the pigaing 
pf * 25.jarignarhomas vien the ingerungen an wife and 
unlers so signed , such instrament shall be of no validity . 
in Regülation $ 1; for the world with 

anaging Director of 
Deputy Manging Director , the Fecretaries : uthul such odbor 
amplayer"wuhstityto the words agoh qabloy.com " g ,and 
omis the yords and to execute proxios to vote at meelings on 
bokalf of shareholders from whom the Blank bold s goneral 

poners -of -atturney occurring ut tho ond ; 
( 3) to Regulation 52, ada the following 
“ Provided that aothing contained in this Bregulations 

bavy effeog iq , relation to the holding of ang fiqo by 

the employment of any such porkon in , the state Bant " , 
le ) ia Regalation 54( 2) , omit " igned by si majority of the 

Dirootori " ; 
in omni Busfa látions 55 , 56 , 57, 58, 801 &), Box , or, 82, 88 and 64; 
(e) for Bulgulation: 6 $, substitute the following com 
86. Polico perved on 5 Yenving it al, or 

seading it by pont to , the Head Onion of the Bunk . 
The mendonte made by nootion 3 to 7 Ni bo do . mod always 
boon made libo prtäcipat Lat . 


Comenon kit , 


to ) 


or 


The State Bank of India (Amendment) ordinanca, 1958 ) 


OU 


1 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 3 , 1068 : 


PART I 
TENDER NOTICE NO . 19 

Imphal, the 3rd Cotobar , 1985 . 
Separato nonlod tenders, superrcribed “ Tonder for Innbice. Mahal 
are invited for the exclusive right to work out timber from tho undermentioned 
Teront arbus and will be received by the undorsigned apto 2-0 P.M..on the 18th 
November , 1988 . 

Except Cheklaphai Mahal, the period of contract for other Mahals in one year 
from the 1st December, 1988 to the 30th November , 1986 . 

2. The tenderer should inspect. the Forest Mabuls before onbmission of tendor, 
w have a thorough ides of tho Forests . After the sale of the Mabals , ao complatz 10 
garding the shortage of timbers , inaccessibility to the Mahal and replacement of the 
marked troon , will be heard . The intending tendører sbould make himself aoquainted 
with the area of the Mahal and the availablo timbers thereon , 

8. Each tenderer sbould state the monopoly fee in terms of pios por rapes of 
royalty in addition to the royalty payable on the extracted timbor, for the right of 
working the Mahal. The monopoly fee offered sball be payable ench time with the 
Toyalty while taking the transit pags . The contractor will also have to pay the Sale Tax 
of -|-18 pies por rupee of royalty in addition to the royalty and monopoly foo . 

4. The tonderar should deposit an earnest money of Ra 100 %- (Rupees one hun 
dred ) orily in the Imphal Treasury and should enclose the Treasury Obalan in the 
tonder , failing which no touder will be accepted . The earnest money will be re 
funded in case of unsuccessful tenders and will be couverted into a part of ouation 
money in case of successful tunder. Successful tenderers shall executo an agreement 
within 10 days of the receipt of the information to that effoot and shall deposit 
onation money of her 500 /- (Rupees five hundred ) only , failing which the tender shall 
Ive trobada canoellod and the varnost money deposited sball be forfeitud to the 
Governmesib of Manipur. After rigning agreement if the contractor does not do any 
work or it it is the opinion of the Forest . Officer that proper extraction bas not 
boon . done by the contrao !or, the agreument is liable to cancellation without furtber 
notice and the caution money of Rs. 500 / - only be forfeited . 

8. The contractor shall not interfere with persons holding permits from the Forest 
Department or prevent them from working such produce as may be permitted to 
remove from the area hereby leaned . 

6. No Uningthou trees should be extraoted below 20" inches width when roughly 
aquared : Trees whioh are reserved and marked for mother trees by the Forest Depart 
ment in the Mahal should not be felled . 

7. Tbo undersigned doos.: not bind himself to acoopt the highost tender and may 
rejoot any teoder without assigning any reasons , 

N. B. : The period of Chrklapbai Maha ! is two ye418 from the 1st December, 
1986 to the 30th November, 1957. The maximum annual quota of trees to be ex 
tracted is limited to 200 trees or 600 logs for each year. 

List of each Timber Mahals for sale is as given below : 

List of timber Mabals for 1955-56 . 
Sl. Name of Name of Species of 

Total No. Boundaries 

Homarke 
No. Reserves . Mabals treos . 

of trees 


8 


14 


200 


K , K .; Sapormaine 180 trees of 
Reserye . Mahalin different soft Wood 

speoies , 20 trees 
of Uaingthou . 


MANIPUR GAZITIE , NOVEMBER % , 1966 . 


I 


4 

e 

7 
Naapani 100 trucs of 

150 
Boerve Mabal different soft 

wood species 
80 trues of 

Upingthou , 
8. B. B. Lairok 150 Teak 

160 N. Laijing hills , 
Forest. Mahal. trees 

8. Main Road . 
( both side 

E.B.B. boundary . 
of Lairok 

W. Main Road . 
river ) . 
. Sugnu ( a ) Tuiyang 50 Pine troos . 

50 N. Yaingang houbi. 
Forest Reserve , 

E. Pamtujang . 
Reservo . 

8. Salung . 

W. Kangbang bill . 
(b ) Kana 50 Pine troes . 

50 N : Thamkhong 
Reserve . 

E , Kapu Tengkon . 
8. Kangbung hill. 

W. Kana River . 
( 0 ) Longya 1 ( O Pine trees . 100 N. Paldaikhuman . 
Reserve . 

E. Kuna River . 
8. Longya . 

W. Manipor River . 
5. Cheklapbai 

400 Pipe 

400 N , Nakhukot . 
Reserve trees . 

8. Singat Road (Jau Lam ). 
E. Motorable road in Paldai, 

W. Military Camp. 
6. Dampi Saiton 600 posts of 

800 N. Hill Ridge . 
Roserve . Loubuk . Sahi Kubi 

8. Sandangkhong Maru . 
E. Khal Tengol. 

W. Sandangkhong Maru . 
7. Cheklaphai (i) Chekla- 600 posts of 

600 N. Sohbemching . 
Reserve. phai Mahal Uil & Thangji 

8. Mangvom Thungong 
No. II ( a ) 

E. Sehbem Khunman . 

W. Tiddim Road . 
8 . Do ( ii ) Chekla . 600 posts of 

600 N. Mangrew Thumgong . 
phai Mahal Uil , Sahi & 

S. Paldai Stream . 
No , III Kubi. 

E. Tongmanching . 

W. Tiddim Road . 
9. Sugna ( a ) Yangen- 50 Sahi Kuhi posts 100 Frum Heininylok to 
Forest obing Re 41) Manahi & 

Nungpanlok . 
Regerve . 

Thangji. 
10 Uil. 

160 From Simon Paraw to 
(h ) Kangbung 100 Sahi Kuhi 
Reserve . 30 Manahi & Thangji 

Tebilok . 
20 Ui . 
(0 ) Kana 100 Sabi Kubi. 

2 ) 0 From Thumgonglok to 
Reserve . 80 Manahi & 

Khoktubilok . 
Thangji. 

20 Vil & Khal. 
( d ) Longya 100 Sabi Kuhi. 20J From Puleipokpilok to 
Reserve . 50 Manabi & Thangji. 

Paringlok , 
50 Khal & Holru . 

R. K. B.C. Singh , .. 
Forest Officer, Govt . of Manipur . 


serve . 


♡ 


WW * 


TICE 

Imphal, the 3rd October 
1. It im horoby notified for general information that the auction malo ot, the 
undermentioned fuel coupes will take place in the Foroat Omoe, Inaphål at 11-0 A 
on the 17th November, 1988 . 

2. The period of contraot for working the Mahala ko six mbable from 
December , 1968 to the sist May , 1956 . 

8. The intending bladers may visit the firewood coupos elementene for mentioned 
on information , to the Foresters in charge so that they may have thorougla henow 
ledge of the areas and , frowaga content of the coupes . When the notion 
and prices settled dowoso ogmplaint in respect of paucity a Vililable woord 
and ignorance of area obo. etg . will be heard. 

4. No mothptrens marked by the Forest Department nor awy, class trees namely 
Ushoi, Tairen , Voipgthoy, shiſeims, Pareng , Khal, til, Tera , Naru Khabi-Nungabi, 
Uobal which might occur in the coupe, would be allowed to out for firewood . 

8. Royalty will be charged on and above the lump sum monopoly fee offered 
by the successful bilder. 

The monopoly có will be payable on the very day of the salo aus soon as the 
sale of the coupe is conclăded and royalty at Sixed schedule , on every consiga 
pont at the time of transit at the Forest Revenue Stations . 

& Tho sycopasfal bidạers Shal execute an agreement within one week from the 
date 1976 and han depofit a caution money of Rs. 1001. (Rapoes one hundred ) 
oply , he rotanded on expiry of the 

the contract period without any interest. , Any 
amount which might be due to the Government on account of compensation or 
any other cause in working coupe be recoverable from the caution money depth 
sited by the contractor. 

The list, of local coopér to be sold fur the year 1965-56 with details of botin 
dary limit is as given below : -- 


Namo of Mihals . 


Boundaries . 


Si. Name of 
No. Reserve . 


Remarks 


species of Fuol. 


- 


1 


2 


4 


5 


1. K. K. Reserve. 


Kang pokpi. Mahal 
Plot No. (I ). 


2. K. K. Rovervo . 


Kangrokpi Mabal 
Prot ko. ( Lt). 


8 . Keithelganbilo Uyong , Sahid 
N. Bridle path leading Kuhi only . 

to l fumyang hi 
yillage. 

fanias šieta . 
W. Tbotnilok . 
N. Thunamlok . 

Uyung. 
8. Brlale path leadtag 

to Tlumyang village 
E. Antight lino on 

értendon to be 
hidle Path from 

Nonto Thunan . 
Paddy Field 
englam & whit 
. Blatul Kentes 

obsahu 
W. Whingrang 
3. Paddy Whold & 


phaiti 


8. Khamallo 

Gwaltebi 
Beatre 


Nenabralok firowoda 
La 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 2, 1986. 


2 


62 


Khamollok Salhu Lokahao & N. Walhulokohao Chingyang . Sabi Kubieto . 
Gwaltabi Leingang tubi frewood B. Salingaluk & Chingyang . 
Rogervo, Mabal. 

E. Chingyang . 

W. Chingyang . 
8. Chingkhei Ching Chingkheiohing 

N. Lokmacha in front of 

Do 
Reserve , Topmaning Ching . 

Tinsit Amanba Road . 
8. Wakha Chingjeng . 
E. Chingyang . 

W. Foot-bill & Yarallou . 
Do Obingkheiching N. Khongnangkhong of 

Do 
REnervo Nongpok 

Thambal Lairenbi 
Sanjembam & Sang 8. Ohingyang adjoining 
sbabi. 

Khulda Piba Ühing. 
E. Chingjin of Heiyu Makbong . Do 

& Paddy Field . 

W. Chingyang. 
7 . Sambei Purum Sambei Mabal. N. Timbirok Chingjin . 

Do 
Reserve . 

8. Soibam Loubuk adjoining 

Village . 
E. Chingyang 

W. Field . 
Heingangching 
8. Heingang 

De 

N. Chiogjia adjoining 
Reservo . Kihomlok . 

Lamphel. 
S. Thumkhonglok Chingjia . 
W. Chingyang . 

E. Loubuk . 
Do Ohingphei N. Chingyang 

Die 
Mabal, 

8. Paddy Fiyld . 
E. Iren Kiching ( hing 

jong Loupbum Lumbi. 
W. Hill between Khul 

Houbi & Kangthabilok , 
Tuitbabi Mahal . 
10. Dampi 

Do 

N. Jilamlok . 
Reserve 

8. Molwuifei Kbonglambi. 
Moirang 

E. Chinggang . 
side 

W. Tampak . 

N. Aill ridge . 
Kbal Tengol 
11. Dampi 

Do 
Reserva Mahal 

8. Sandangkhong Maru . 

E. Huisibi Chingjen 
Ithai 
nide 

W. Saiton Paddy Field . 
12. Langon Lamlongei 

N. Leibaopok pilok . 
Reuerve . Mabal. 

S. Manipur Ritles new 

shooting Range . 
E. Lamlongei village 

& l addy Hold . 
W. Chingyang . 

N. Santba Ohingjia . 
13 , 

Do 
Khamrung Namang 
Do 
Ching. 

8. Yengaobung . 
K. Ohingyang. 
W. Village & Paddy Pield . 

B. K. B. d . Hingt , 
Format Offioer , Gort of Manipur . 


De 


AKIPOR G1 


TESDMR NOTIPS Ka. n 

Imphal, the sth otoboy , 19EUR 
1. Sealed tendera sa persoribed as Header for ** Block No ..... 

are invited to the 
the talusive right to work out timber from Manipur Febent Blooke and with the 
reosived by the undersigaed upto 2-0 . P. M. on the 16th December , 1988. The 
period of contract is 8 years from the lot January, 1939 to the 31st Decembur, 
1918 , 

2 . The tenderors shou :d inspect the Forest Blooks befano mahnimion of benda 
to have thorough idea of the Foresta , After the sale of the Blooke , no comaplalat 
regarding the abortuge of tiubers, inaccessibility to the Muanl and replacement of 
the marked trees , will be heard . 


-- 


8. Hadde tonderer should state the monopoly fee in terms of pior por rupee of 
topulty payable on the extracted timber, for the right of working the timber . Th . 
monopoly fee attored shall be payable each time with the royalty while taking the 
upanat pod the contraotor will also have to pay the Balo Tax of -/-/6 pies per 
rupoe of royalty in addition to the royalty and monopoly tee . 

.. The tenderer should deposit an earnest money of Rs. 100 /- (Rupeos one bundred ) 
only in the Imphal or Bilobar Treasury and should enclose the Transury Ohalan 
in the tender , failing which no tender will be accepted . The earnest money will 
be refunded in the rate of ninsuocessful tenders and will be converted into a part 
of caution money in cash of successful tender. Successful tonderers shall execute 
an Agreement within 14 days of the receipt of the informntion to that offeet and 
shall deposit a obution money of Rs. 200 /- (Rapees two hundred ) only failing which 
the tander shall be treated as cancelled and the earnest money deposited shall be 
forth to the Gorernment of Manipur. After signing the agreement if the contrac. 
top dons not do any work or if it is the opinion of the Forest Officer that proper 
omotion has not been done by the contractor, the Agreement is liable to capoel 
dation without further notice and the caution money of Rs. 200 /- (Rupees two hundred ) 
only be forfeited . 

6. The successful tenderers shall not interfere with the working of bamboos or 
canes in the same Mahal by any contractor during the currency of the lease . 
6. The undersigned does not bind himself to accept the highest tendor and may 

any tender without assigning any reasons . 
7. The following reserves demoly Jirimukh Reserve , Kaiphuodai Reserve, Tiagaan 
Mbok Roberto aod Torbung Reserve aitaated in Block M. II and III, M. (a ), 

III and M. XII respectively will be closed for timber operations. 

The maximum annual quota of logs to be extracted is limited to 600 logs froin 
gch block , 


The list of Blooks to be sold is as given below :-- 

1. Blu Nou . 11 ), J ( b ), IL, III, IV , V , VII, VIII, IX , X and XII. 
2. Bloak Nag , V , XI and XIII . 
8. Dlouk Nam. XIV , XV and XIX . 


R.K. B. O. 84 
Forest Caer , Gart 


XOTIOE No. o 


Imphal, the 18th Oot., 18. 
4 pointime stating age, eduoational qualitate previous experience . gotatonied 
to attented ortificante de testimonials # ay... of wife : living If burried home 
moon and father s are in vited for 

af 6 Field Asuinterest in the woole 
of Blue 40-8-00-4-30 % 1 ) Jeep Driver in the lo of Bu + 9-2 -sonli 2 poubes of 
Memwagters in the south all Ru 29-4-28 plus thout mens allowanciques to become the under 
signed on or before the 17th November, 1959 . 

As regards Field Assistants preference will by given to those peratus who passed 
the Veterinary Stockman Course . 

N. B. RAY , 
Offg . Chief Medical Officer , Manipur . 

(Voterinary ). 


Imphal, the 28th Ootober, 1968 , 
No. V. 7. Proga /Pub /55.- Applications are invited from Indian national for the 
post of a Rehabilitation Officer under the Government of Manipur on the scale of 
pay of Rs. 200-10-350 / -. The post is sanctioned upto the 29th of February , 1966 
but is likely to continue beyond that date . Applicants must be graduates of a 
recognised University and posgest some experience of office and field work and be 
capable of intensive touring. Other things being equal preference will be given to 
refugees possessing knowledge of local conditions . 

2. Applications stating age, educational qualifications , permanent address , whether 
married and if so the number of wives living , name of father and accompanied by 
attested copies of educational certificate and two character certificates in original from 
Gazetted Officers, one of which must be counter- signed by an officer not below the 
rank of Sub - Divisional Magistrate , sbould be sent to the Deputy Commissioner , Manipur, 
Iinpbal so as to reach him not later than 15th of November , 1988. Applicants 
should be prepared to come to Imphal on their own cost for interview if required . 
Candidates already serving in other Govt. Departments should apply through proper 
channel. 

A. K. Rny, 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


ar a 


NOTICE No, 27 / TE . 

Imphal, the 28th October , 1955 . 
Applications stating age, qualification experience in touching ( if any) and also 
number of living wives if married invited for the post of pandit of Aimol 
U. P. Sohool on pay scale of Rs. 30-1-38 (EB ) 1-40 plus Daarness allowance as admi 
osible under rules . 

None need apply who has not pushed teachership Examination . 

The applioation will be reosived by the undersigned upto 10-11-56. Ouber things 
being equal, preference will be given to the candidate knowing two or 

more local 
Languages. 

K. Goura Singh , 
Inspector of School Manipur 

I/O of D , 1. ( T ). 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBRE 200 


NOTICE. 

Imphal, the 22nd October , 1985 . 
No. 9/86 . Sealed tenders with samples of cloth are invited for the topply 
the following liveries of the Grade IV employees of the Distriot & Sexions Content 
and its subordinate ones . Tenders addressed to the District & Borsion Judge, 
Manipur will be received by the undersigned upto 1 p . m . of the 17th November , 
1986 and they will be of oned on the same day before the tonderers. 

Further details way be had from the office during the office hours . 

There shall be no binding to accept the lowest tender or to assigh any reason 
for aoceptance of any tender . 

1. 14 Khaki Coats (Complete ) 
2. 16 Khaki Haver Sacks ( Complete ) 
3. 17 Khaki long pants (Complete ) 

M. Choudhury, 

C. U.O. 
Distriot & Sessions Court, Manipur 


CORRIGENDUM . 


Imphal, the 28th Oot , 1965 . 
No. HCNA /16 / 52 / 156 - Plons make the following corrections and insertion to 
the Manipur Cinematograph Kules , 1985 issued undor Notification No. HONA/ 18 /82 
dated the sth October , 1965 published in the Gazette of Manipur, Extra- Ordinary 
issue No. 38 - E - 8 dated the 21st Ootober, 195.7. 

3. In Rule 8 ( 2 ) read Licensee for Licensco . 
2. Put & comma after the figure (8) ooouring in the first line to provino of 

Rule 3 ( 3 ) . 
3. Read Licensee for the word Liceo de occuring in the penultimate line in 

Rule 714 ). 
4. Substitute the word to for the word on oocuring in the last lino in 

Rule 12 ( 2 ). 

Read tam pered for tempered occuring in the last but one line in Rale 20 . 
8. Insert the word is after the words alternations and ia ooouring in the 
third line in Rule 21 ( 3 ) 

By order 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary (AED ) to the Govt . of Manipur 


T 


Imphai, the end November , 1958 . 
The 28th Ootober , 1988 bolag a holiday ou , account of Durga Puja , there was 
ao inate of the Manipur Gagetto, on that date . 

T.Y. Singh , 
for Suportabendent , Govt. Prou , Manipur. 


thathen 


the litere Boportunidades premier 49411- lithe 


Manipur 


Gazette 


सचमन 


जना 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 38 


Imphal, Wednesday , November 9 , 1965 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Part I.-- Appointments, Postings, Transfers , Powers, 

Loave and other personal noticos, 
Part 11. - Resolutions, Regulations, Orders , Notifi 

cations, Rules etc. 


1 to 2 


Page 
Purt III . - Orders , Notifications, Rules of 
the ( tovernment of India , 

3 to 9 
Part IV .-- Advertisements and Noticos etc. 10 to 13 


2 to 3 


PART 1 
GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

liphal, the 22nd October , 1955 . 
No. R / 7 /54 ( 9 ) 32. - The Chief Commissioner is pleased to appoint Shri N. C. Dey 
at present Treasurer , Imphal Treasury to officiate as Sub- Deputy Collector Treasury 
till further orders in the post created under this Administration order No. R :7/5 ( 99) /31 
dated 21st of October , 1955 . 

2 . Shri Dey would be given the benefit of one advance ircrer ont on the piy 
fixed under the operation of uoraal Piles. 

A. K. Ray , 
( hief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


Imphal, the 29th October, 1955 . 
No. TO / 166 110 D.C. - Shri P. B. Mukherjee , Treasury Officer , Imphal, is granted 
leave on average pay on medical certificate for 28 days with effect from the 4th 
Ootober , 1955 . 

Imphal, the 29th October , 19155. 
No. ND / Try 163/107 ;D.C - Shri V. C. Dey , Offig . Sub -Deputy Collector ( Trea 
Bury ) is placed in charge of the Imphal Treasury to function as Treasury Officer 
with effoct from the afternoon of the 29th October , 19.75 till further orders vice 
Shri P. B. Mukherjee granted leave on medical certificate. 

He je authorised to draw bills on other Treasuries and State Banks of India . 


on 


Imphal, the 29th October , 1955 . 
No. T.0 / 166 / 112 D.C .-- Shri R. C : Deb (Choudhury , A. D. M. and Shri O. Nila 
dhwaja Singh , E. A. C. were placed in chargo of the Imphal Treasury during the 
period noted against each vice Shri P. B. Mukherjee granted leave medical 
certificate . 

( 1) Shri R. ( . Deb Choudhury , A. D. N. From 4th tu 6th October , 1958 . 
(2 ) Shri 0. Niladhwaja Singh , E. A. C. From 7th to 29th October , 1956 . 

V. S. Sundaram , 
Deputy Commissioner, Manipur. 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 9 , 1955. 


Imphal, the 7th November, 1955 . 
No. ND , Try 163 / 113, D.C .-- Shri N. C. Dey, Officiating Sub - Deputy Collector 
( Treasury ) was plicad in charge of the Imphal Treasury with effect from the after 
noon of the 1st November, 1955 . 

This modifies my Order No. ND / Try / 163/ 107/ D.C . dated the 29th October , 1965 . 


Imphal, the 7th November , 195.5 . 
No. T.O , 116 / 111 D.C .-- Shri O. Nilidhwajit Singh , E. A. C. was in charge of the 
Imphal Tre isury from the 7th October, 1955 to the 1st Novembor , 19955 (aft - rnoon ). 
This is in prirti l modification of my 

Order N. T.9 / 106 / 112 / D.C. dated 

the 
29th October , 1955 . 

V.S. Sundarain , 
Deputy Commissioner , Manipur . 


PART II 

Imphal, the 24th October, 1955 . 
No. B - TP /5 /51.-- In continuation of Manipur Government Order No. B - TP /5 /61 
dated 29th of July , 1955 , the 

Chief Commissioner is plcased to continue the 
appointment of Shri S. () . Palit us Officer on Special Duty , Manipur State Transport 
for a further period of three months , or till the posting of it regular officer , which 
ever is earlier . 


Imphal, the 29th October , 1955 . 
No. N.FA93 31,56 . - In modification of the Orders contained in this Secretariat 
Order No. FA ::13 /-1.26 dated 24th March 1953 the Chief Commissioner has been 
pleased to decide that until further orders the powers of the Heads of Departments 
in respect of Offices Departments mentioned below will not be exercisod by any 
particular officer and that matters requiring orders of the Houds of Departinents 
would be referred to the Government . The power of the lIead of Office will how 
ever be exercised liy the officers indicated against each dcpartment : 

Education Department - Inspector of Schools . 
2 . Forest Department - Forest Officer. 
3 . Co -operative .Department - A . R. C. S. 
4. Industries Departinent- Director of Industries. 
5. Hydro Electric Department- Electrical Engineer . 
6 . Government Press Assistant Secretary Medical, Veterinary & Transport . 


1 . 


A. K. Ray, 
( hief Secretary to slie Govt. of Manipur. 


Imphal, the 7th November , 1955 . 
No. F -DPC 25 , 52 . - In continuation of the Chief ( ommissioner s order No. F - DPC / 
2 / 52/79 , dated the 12th Septoinber, 190.) the Chief Commissioner is pleased to dele 
gate to the Development Commissioner, Manipur the powers of Administrative approval , 
Expenditure sanction and Technical sanction up to Rs. 10,000 /- for each item of 
work within the approved work prograinine for the Community Project and the 
National Extension Servico Block . This modifies item 1 of thy statement enclosed 
to the previous notification under reference . 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 9 , 1955 . 


3 


Imphal, the 27th October, 1955. 
No. Tax / 17 /55.- In exercise of the power, conferred by Section 3 of the Assam 
Motor Vehicles Taxation Act , 1936 (Assim Act IX of 1936 ) as applied to the State 
of Manipur by the Govt . of India , (Ministry of States ) Notification No. 8 - J dated 
7-1-52 , the Chief Commissioner is pleased to exempt totally, the “ Jeeps " of the 
*Central Social Welfare Board from payment of tax . 

K. Gourkisbore Singh , 
Asstt. Secretary ( A1VT) to the Govt , of Javipur. 


NOTIFICATION . 

lited Shillong, the 7th Octubr, 1955 . 
No. TM . 10/55/34. — It has born roported to this office that much difficulty is 
being experienced by the Government of In lia in acceptance and classification of 
charges relating to schedulid Castes, Scheduled Tribes and oher Backward classes 
Scholarship Scheme of the Government of India , for want of necessary details of 
the Scholarship schom , etc. In the absonce of the required particular:s the amount 
of refunds madı by thy lleuds of Educational Institutions remains un djusted for 
long periods. 

The Tro sury and Sub - Tre : sury Officórs in Assam , Tripurit and Manipur aro 
therefore , requested to send the copies of chalans in original in respect of rofundz 
of Govt . of India scholarships ar vunts made by the loads of Educational Insti . 
tutions to this office fur passing thim in to the lccountant General, Central Revenues, 
Now Delhi. If however, it is not posible to send the copies of chalans the following 
details in respect of the rifunds should be furnished to this vflic :. 
(i) Native of the scho arship schein toiveihor wiil the name of the scholarships 

and Institutions concerned . 
(ii ) No. itnil date of chilan ly which the Had of the Instituti:) n concerned hai 

deposited the amou : t into the treasury . 
( iii ) Brief roa -uns. f rofund of sc jolarships ilmoilt as given by thu lload of Institution . 
(iv ) 

Name of the II ad of Account undir which the am junt had been credited 
as well as th : tinancial year in question . 

4. S. Lil , 
Deputy Accountant General, Assam . 


PART III 

Imphal, the 21st October , 19.55 . 
No. RH /77/51- A / 39 .--- l he following Notification Cated 7-9-55 issued by the Govt . 
of India , Ministry of Rehabilitation , New Delhi is republished for general information . 

T. Kalachand Singh , 

Asstt. Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 

Ν Ο ΤΙ FI C Α Τ Ι Ο Ν . 
S. R. O. No....... In pursuance of sub -rulo (1) of rule 95 of the Displaced persons 
(Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Rules , 1955 , the Central Governinept herely invites 
applications in the form specitied in Appendix XXVI to the suid rules, within nioety 
days from the date of publication of this notification , for the piyment of rehabilitation 
grants from the class of persons referred to in sub)-rule ( 1) of rule 96 of the said rules , that is 
to say , from all displaced persons having no verified ulsims who have left immo 
vable property in West Pakistan and who came India from West Pakistan 
aft : r the 31st July , 19902. 

( No. F.44 ( 5 ) -SI/55 ). 


to 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 9 , 1956 . 


Implial, the 17th October , 1955 . 
No. J/ 15 /54. — The following Land Customs ( Amendment) Act , 1955 is republished for general 
information . 

A , K. Ray , 

Chief Secretary to the Govt , of Manipur 
TIIE LANI) CUSTOMS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 1955 

( 335 of 1975 ) 

Αγη 
ACT 


XIX vf 1924 


new 


further to an end the Land Customs Ac , 1924 . 
Bi it en : cted luy Parliament in the Sixth Year of the Republic 
of India as follows : 
1. This Art 

піау 

be caller the Luand Customs (Amendment) Short titlo . 
Act, 1955 . 
2 . For tho Schedule to the Land Customs Act, 1921 , the following 

Rubstitution of 

Schedule 
Schedule wall love substituted , namely : 

for cxisting 

Schedu ! c . 
“ THE SCHEDULD 

( see section :) 
Provisions of the Sea Customs Act . 1878 , which are maile applicable 

for the purpose of the levy of duties of land customs. 
Sectious 3 A , 1,8 to 10 , 21 , 23, 25 , 26 , 29 , 294 , 29 B , 30 to 36 , 37 
(except the provisel, 38 to 41), section 88, section 167, Nos . 1, 8 , , 37 
to 40 , 72 to 76 , 70A , 761 , 77 to 81 , sections 168 170 , sections 1701, 
171, 1714 , 172 to 170 , section 178, section 178.1 , sections 17 ! to 181, 
182 to 1841 , Rectiva 186 , Section 187 , section 187.1 , sertions 188 lu 190 , 
section 1901 , sections 1 : 1 tv 1 : 7 , and sertions 200 to 2014 ” . 


Implal , the liik October , 1:52 . 
No. J/ 15 : 54 ,b ) – The following Sua Cistums (Amendment) Act , 1975 is republished for goneral 
information , 

A. K. Ray . 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


THE SEA CUSTOMS ( AMENDMENT ) ACT , 1951 
No. 21 of 1955 

[ 7th Mull , 1955 ] 
An Act Further to amond the Sea Customs Act , 1878 . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixth Yenr of the Republic of India as follows : 
1. This Act may be called the Sou Custoins ( Amen.linetil ) Act, 1935 . 

Short title 
2. In the provision to section 20 of the Sea Curioms let, 1878 ( hereinafter referred Amendmont 
to as the principal Act ), for the Words " withilit payment of duty ” , the following Act VIII of 
shall be subtituled , namely : - 

" without payment of duty if no drawback in respect of the goods has been 
allowed mer section 4313 , ad on payment of duty equ il to the amount of the 
draw back if drawback bun lloc h allowed under that section " . 
3. After section 29 of the principal Act, tho following sections shall be inserted , 

new section 
namely : 

29A and 298 
in Aot VIII 


of section 25 


1878 . 


Insertion of 


of 1878 . 


“ 20A , Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, goods chargeable to Assessment 
duty may, prior to the examiniation thereof, be permitted by the Customs- collector of duty prior 
to he agreegel for the 

purpos ( 5 

of this Act on the basis of the statoment contained tion of good . 
in the bill of entry or shipping bill , as the case may be , but if it is found subsc . 
quently on an examiniation of the goods or otherwise , that any such statement 
is not true in reapeot of any matter relevant to the assessment, the guods may , 
without prejudice to any other action which may be taken under this Act , be 
roAssessed to duty . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 9 , 1955 . 


3 


assessment 
of duty . 


29B . (1 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act , but without prejudice Provisional 
to the provisions contained iu section 29 , 

Pricc ar . 3 or 4d . 
216 m . of Law , 

( a ) where the owner of any goods makes and subscribus a declaration before 
the " Justoms- collector to the effect that he is unable for want of full informatin 
to state precisely whe real value or quantity of such goods in a bill of entry or 
e shipping bill , as the case may be ; or 

(6 ) where the owner of any soods las furnished full information in regard 
to the roal value or quantity of the goods but the Custoins.collector requires further 
proof in respect thereof ; or 

(c) where the Customs-collector deems it expedient to subject any goods liable 
to duty , to any chemical or other test , 
the Customs- colleetor may direct that the duty leviable on such goods may , pending 
the production of such information or proof or ponding the completion of any glich 
tost, be assessed provisionally in accordance with , and subject to the provisions of, this 
section and any rules made thereunder . 

(2 ) When the owner of any goods in l ospect of which the duty has been assessed 
provisionally under sub -section ( 1 ) hus paid such duty , the officer of Customs 

may 
make an order allowing the goods to be cleared for home consilmption or shipped vs 
water borno to be shipped for exportation , as the care may be, il such order shall 
be fuflicient authority for the removal of the goods by the owner . 

( 3 ) When the cluty leviable on such goods is assessed finally in accordance with 
the provisions of this Act, the duty provisionally assessed under sub-section (1 ) shall 
be adjusted against the laty finally assessed , and if the duty provisionally assessed 
falls short of , or is in excess of, the duty finally assessod , tho owner of the goods 
shall tho deficiency or bu 

be entitled to a refund , as the case may be . 
pay 
(4 ) The Chief Customs-authority may , subject to the condition of previous publication , 
make rules for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section and , in 
particular , such rules may provide for 

(u ) the circumstances in which , an :l the restrictions, and conditions subject to 
which , duty may be provisionally assessed on any goods and the manner in whiclı 
such duty may be so assessed ; 

16 ) the furnishing of any security for the payment of the deficiency , if any , 
between the duty finally assessed , and the duty provisionally assessed ; and 

(c) the final assessment of duty , where the owner of the goods fails to furnish 
full information within a specified period regarding the real value or quantity of 
the goods . 

(5 ) All rules made under this section shall be laid before both Houses of Parli 
ment , as soon as may be , after they are made." 

4. In section 37 of the principal Act , for the Explanation , the following Explanation Amendment 
shall be substituted , namely 

“ E.rplanation . A bill of entry shall, for the purposes of this section , be deemed 
to be delivered 

( 11 ) when it is first prosented to the proper officer of Customis ; or 
( h ) where it is delivered in anticipation of the arrival of the importing 

verse ), on the date on which an order is given under rection 57 for 

the entry of the vessel inwards." . 
5. For section 39 of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted , of heti uteon 
namely : 

tion for sec 
tlon 39 in 
AC VIII of 

1878. 
“ 39. ( 1) When customs duties or charges have not been leviod or have been Paymont of 
short- levicd through inadvertence , error , collusion or misconstruction on the part of duties Rot 
the officers of Customs, or through mis -statement as to renl value, quantity or desorip- lovlad, bert 
tion on the part of the owner , 

levied or er 

roneously 
or when any ruch duty or charge , after having been levied , has been , owing 

rofuaded , 
to any such Gaus , erroneously refunded . 


; 


0 


Act VIII of 
1878 . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 9 , 1955. 


the 

person chargeable with the duty or chargc which has not been levied or 
which has been su short- levied , or to whom such refund has erroneously been made , 
shall 

pay the duty or charge or the deficiency or repay the amount paid to him 
in exccm , on 

a notice of demand being jerued to him within three months from 
the relevant doto ils defined iu sub - section ( ? ) ; 

flich 
and the Customs -collector may refuse to 

pass any goods belonging to 
person until the raid duties or charges or the said Jeliciency or excurs be paid 
or repaid . 
(2 ) For the purposes of sub - section ( 1), the expresrion " relevant dato ” means : 
( a ) in a cake where the duty or charge 

been levierl , 

the dato 
on which the ( rloms-officer makes an order for clearance of the goods ; 

(6 ) in the case where the duty is re -assesgod umor section 29A , the date 
of re - ansessment, 
( c ) in A where the duty is provisionally assessed 

under section 
291, the date of final adjustment of duty ; 
( d ) in 8 Case where the duty or charge has been 

been erroneously refunded , 
the date of refund ; and 
( e ) in 

in any other case , the date of the first assessment.”. 
6. To section 10 of the principal Act, the following Explanıtion shall be added , of section 10 
namely 


រង s 


not 


; 


( ose 


Ainendmen 


f 


Aot VIII O 
1878. 


Insertion of 


VIII oil 87 % . 

arri . 
val of vessel 


Amendment 


Act VIII of 
1878 . 


" Explanation .--Where duty is provisionally assossed under section 29B , the period 
of three months shall be computod from the date of final adjustment of duty .” . 

7. After section 54 of the principal Act, the fo., wing section shall be inserted , new section 
namely : 

54A in Act 
“ 54A . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act , the Customs-collector Delivery of 
may , subject to uny goneral or special order issued by the Chief Customs-authu- before 
rity , allow a manifest to be delivere.l in anticipation of the arrival of a verrel.”. 

8. In section 86 of the principal Act, for the first paragraph , the following para- or section 86 
graph shall be substituted , namrly : 

" The owner of any goods shall, after the delivery of the manifest ly the master 
of the vessel in which they are imported ,make entry of the goods for home con 
sumption or waichousing loy delivering to tho Customs- collector a bill of entry thereof 
with such runter of copies , in such form and containing such particulars, in addi 
tion to the particulars specified in section 29 , 46 may , from time to time, be pres 
cribed by the Chief Customs -officer." . 

Amondmort 
9. In section 1.10 of the principal Act, for the proviso in the second paragraph , of 
the following provino shall be substituted , namely : 

VII ) of 1878 
" Provided that no such refund shall be allowed unless a claim therefur is maile 
within three months of the date on which the said verrel left the port " . 
10. In the Schedule to section 107 of the principal Act, - 

VII of 1878 . 
(41 after item 70 , the following items shall be insertul, namaly : 
" 76A . If any polerson rosists or refuses to 170A Such 

person shall on conviction 
allow a radiologist to fcreen or take X - ray 

before a Magistrate be liable to 
pioturos of his body in accordance with an 

imprisonment for any term not 
order made by a Magistrate . 

exceeding six months, or to fino , 

or to both . 
76B . If any porson resists refuses to 

Such person shall on conviction 
allow suitable action being taken 

on the 

before a Magistrate le liable to 
advice and under the supervision of a regis 

imprisonment for any term not 
tered medical practitioner for bringing out 

exceeding six mouths, or to fine , 
any dutiable , or prohibited goods secreted in 

or to both ." ; 
side his body . 


section 
140 , act 


Amendment 
of seotion 

Act 


167 , 


Or 


170.1 


(6 ) in item 80 , in the entry in the first column , for the words and figures 
" without the approval of the Customs-collector under section 202 " , the words and 
figures " without being in possession of a valid licence required under section 202 " 
shall be substituted ; 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 9 , 1955 . 


" 81. 


(c ) after item 80 , the following item shall be inserted , namely : 

If any person knowingly , and with General Such person shall on conviction 
intent to defraud the Government of any 

before # Magistrato be liabile 
duty payable thereon , or to evade any prohi . 

to imprisonment for any term 
bition or restriction for the 

linio being in 

not caceeding two years , or to 
force under or by virtue of this Act with 

tine , or to both ” . 
l espect thereto acquirer possession of , or is 
in any way concerned in carrying , removing . 
depositing , harbouring , keeping or concealing 
or in any manner dealing with any goods 
which have been unlawfully resno red from 
a warehouse or which 

are chargeable with 
& duty which las not been paid 

or with 
respect to the importation or exportation of 
which 

any prohibition or listriction is 
for thy time being in force as aforesaid ; or 
If any person is in relation to 

any goods 
in any way knowingly concerned 
fraudulent evasion or attempt at evasion of 
any duty chargeable throun or of any such 
prohibition or restriction as aforesaid or of 
any provisiou vf this Act applicable to those 
goods, 


ill any 


11. After section 170 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted , Insertion of 

section 
namely : 


now 
170 A in Act 
VIII of 1879 . 


to 
Or 


screen 


s 


soon 


screen 


" 170A . ( 1) Where any officer of Customs duly employed in the prevention of snug , Power 
gling has reason to believe that any person on log rid of 

any varsel in any port in 

X - ray bodico 
India or any person who has landed from any vessel has any dutiable, or l obibited of pelADS 

for detecting 
goods fecreted inside his boily , such oflicer of Customs may detain such 

person and 

socrcted 
produce hini without unnecessary delay before the nearest Magistrate . 

gouds. 
2 ) A Magistrate before whom any person is brought under sub -section ( 1 ) shall , 
if he sees no reasonable ground for believing that such person has any such goods 
fecreted infide his body , fortlıwith di - charge sur person . 

( 3 ) Where any such Magistrale has reasonable ground for believing that such 
person has any such goods secretel insiile his body and the Magistrate is satistici 
that for the purpose of discovering such goods it is necessary to have the body of 
such person screened or X -layei, he may inake an order to that. ell ect, 
( + ) Where a Magistrate has made ilny 

order umler sub -section ( 3 ) in relation to 
auy perkon , any oflicer of Curioms duly employed in the prevention of smuggling sball , 
as practicable , take such 

person 

before a radiologist possessing qualifications 
recognized by the Central Government for the purpose of this section , and such person 
shall allow the radiologist to 

or X -ray his body. 
( 5) A ralliologist before whom any person is brought under sub -section ( 4 ) shall, 
after screening or X -raying the body of such persou , forward his report , together with 
any X -ray pictures taken by him , to the Magistrate without any unnecessary delay . 

(6 ) Where on receipt of a report from a radiologist under sub -section ( :-) or other 
wise , the Magistrate is patisfied that any person has any dutiable or prohibited goods 
secreted inside his body , he may direct that suitable action for bringing out Fuch 
goods be taken on the avice and un ler the supervision of a l egistered medical prac 
titioner and such person shall be bound to comply with such direction : 

Provided that in the case of a female no such action shall be taken except on 
the advice and under tho supervision of a fomale registered medical practitioner . 

( 7 ) Where any person is brought before a Magistrate under this section , such 
Magistrato may for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this section order such 
person to be kept in such custody and for such time as he inay direct. 

( 8) Any expenditure incurred for the purpose of enforting the provisions of this 
section ( including any fees Payable to a radiologist or a registered medical practi 
tioner ) shall be defrayed out of moneys provided by Parliament . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 9 , 1985. 


VII of 1916 . 


XXVII of 1933 . 


of 
NcW 
171A 
VIll of 1878 . 


mon 
to 


persons 

evi 


( 9 ) Nothing in this section shall apply to any person referred 
to in sub - section (1) , who admits that dutiable or prohibited goods 
are secreted inside his body , and who voluntarily submits himself 
for suitable action being taken for bringing out such goodr . 

Explanution : -- For the purposes of this section , the expression 
" registered medical practitioner " meanu any person who bolils a qualifi 
cation granted by an authority specified in the Schedule to the Indian 
Medical Degrees Act, 1911 , or notified under section 3 of that. Act , 
or loy au authority specified in any of the Scliedules to the Indian 
Medical Council Act , 1933." 

Inxertion 
12. After section 171 of the principal Act, the following section 

section 

in Act 
shall be inserted , namely : 

" 171A . (1 ) Any officer of Customs duly employed in the prevention Power of offi: 
of smuggling shall have power to suunmon any person whose attendance toms to sum 
he considers necessary either to give evidence or to produce a document 

give 
or any other thing in any inquiry which such oficer is making in con dence and pro 

duce documents 
nection with the smuggling of any goud-, 

( 2 ) A summons to produce documents or other things may be 
for the production of certain specifical locuments or things or for 
the production of all documents or things of a certain description 
in the possession or nder the control of the person fummoned . 
( 3 ) All persons 

slim moned shall be lonnil to attend either 
in person or by an authorized agent, as such officer may direct ; 
and all persons so 

fummoned shall be bound to state the truth 
upon any subject respecting which they are exainine or make 
statements and to produce euch documents and other things as may 
be required : 

Provided that the exemption unler Section 132 of the Code of 
Civil Procedure , 1908 shall be applicable to any l equisition for 
attendance under this rection . 

( 1) Every much inquiry as aforesail shall be deemed to be a 
jullicial proceeding within the morning of section 193 und suction 
228 of the Indian Penal Code ." . 

13. In section 172 of the principal Act, 


S ( ) 


V of 1908 , 


XLV of 1860 . 


Amendment of 
Section 172 , Act 
VIII of 1878 . 


14 . 


Insertion of new 
section 178 A in 
Act VIII of 1878 
Burden of proof. 


(a ) after the words “ prohibited goods " , the words " or any ducu 
ments relating to such goods" shall be inserted , and 

(1 ) after the words “ to rearch for such goods " , the words " or 
documents shall be inserted . 

After section 178 of the principal Act , the following section 
shall be inserted , namely : 

" 178A ( 1) Where any goods to which this section applies 
are seized under this Act in the reasonable belief that they 
are smuggled goods, the burden of proving that they are not 
smuggled goods shall be on the person from whose possoksion 
the goods were scized . 

( 2 ) This section shall apply to gold , gold manufacturer , dia 
monds and uther precious stones, cigarettes and cosmetics and 
any other goods which the Central Government may , by notifi . 
cation in the Official Gazette , specify in this behalf . 

( 3 ) Evory notification issued under sub - section ( 2 ) shall be 
laid before both Houses of Parliamcot as soon as may be after 
it is issued ” . 

15 . After section 187 of the principal Act, the following section 
shall be inserted , namely : 


Insertion of new 
scction 187A ja 
Aot VIII of 1878 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 1 , 196.5 . 


" 187 A. No court shall take cognizanco of any offence relating 
Cognizance of 
offences. 

to smuggling of goods punishable under itom 61 of the Schodulo 
to section 167, escept upon complaint in writing, made by the 
Chief Customs-ufficer or any other officer of Custoins not lower 
in rank than an Assistant Collector of Customs authorizal ini 

this behalf liy the Chief Customs- utlicer " . 
Insertion of new 16. After section 190 of the principal le , the following section 
section 190A in 
Aot VIII of 1878 . 

shall be inrerted , naniely : 
Power of revi 

" 190.1 . (i ) The Chief ( uslois-authority may of its own 
sion of Chief motion or otherwise call for and examine the record of any 
Customs -authori . 
ty and Chief Cug proceeding in which 90 ullicer of Customs has pressed any decision 
toms- officer. 

or order under this Act of the purpose of satisfying itself as 
to the legality or propriety of any such decision or order and 
may pags such oriler thereon as it thinks fit : 

Provided that no order prejudicial to any person ball le 
pansed under this section unless such person has been given a 
reasonable 

opportunity of making representation against the 
proposed under 

( 2 ) The powers conferred upon the Chief Customs-authority 
under sub -section ( 1) may also , in the like jnanner and sislject to 
the like conditions , le ("sercised by the Chief Customs- oflicer 
in respect of any decision or order passed under this Act by any 
ufficer of Customs fubordinate to him . 

13 ) No decision or " siler passed by an ollicer of Customs sha ! 
be revised under this section by the Chief Customs-a uthority or 
a Chief Customs- officer , as the case may lie , after the expiry 
of two years from the date of the decision or order , 

17. For section 202 of the principal Act, the following section shall Suhstitution of 
be substituted , namely 

new section for 
section 202 in 
Aat VIII of 

1878 . 
“ 202. (1 ) with effect from surh date as the Central Govern 

Custom - house 
meut may , by notification in the Official Gazetle specify , no 

agents to be 
person shall act as Au wgent for the transaction of any business lioensod . 
relating to the entrance or clearance of any vessel or the import 
or export of goods or baggage in any ( llstom -bounce unless 
such person holds a licence granted in this behalf in accordance 
with the rules maile under sub -section ( 2 ) . 

( 2 ) The Chief Customs-authority may make rules for the 
purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section and in 
particular , such rules may provide for 

(a ) the authority by which a licence may be granted 
under this section and The period of validity of any such 
licence ; 

( b ) the form of the licence and thu feas payable therefor ; 
(c. the qualifications of persons who may apply for a licence ; 

(nl ) the restrictions and conilitions ( including the furnishing 
of a security by the licenseo for his faithful behaviour 88 le 
gards the custom -house regulations and officers ) subject to which 
a licence may be granted ; 

( e) the circumstances in which a licence may be suspended 
or revoked ; and 

w the appeals , if any , against an order or suspension or 
revocation of a licence, and the period within which euch appeals 
shall be filed .” . 


10 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 9 , 1955 . 


PART IV 


PRESS NOTE . 


Imphal, the 20th October , 1955 . 
CENTRAL OVER - SEAS SCHOLARSHIP SCHEME 

1956-57 . 
No. V.7.PRESS/PUB: 55.--The Guvernment of India have decided to continue the 
Modified Overseas Scholai ships Scheme, now known as the Central () verseas / Scholar 
ships Schema , dwing thing year 1956-87. The Schein is meant for Universities and 
comparable Institutions in order to enalilo ihein to obtain apportunities for their teachers 
for higbor studies / Training abroad and thus to raise the standard of instruction and 
research , 


Niore 


As to the financial implications the Government of India will contribute 50 per 
cent of the entire cost and the remaining 50 per cent will bave to be borne by the 
sponsoring authorities. If University /State Government/ Institution decides to partici 
pate in the scheme, applications not 

ihan four of their nominees in the 
proscribed form along with application form for admission to an educational insti 
tution in the United Kingdom / The Continent/ Japin vf the United Status of America / 
Canada may be forwarda so as to reach the Ministry of Eucati in , Government 
of India not later than the 15th November , 1955 . 
Forms and othor information 

collected from the office of the Asstt. 
Secretary Education ) to the Governm :n of Manipur . 

Gop -ndra Sarina , 
Publicity Officer, Manipur. 


miy be 


Imphal, the 8th Oct., 1955 . 
No. K / IN - 3 / 55 -- The following letter No. CS1151/ 378 - P dated the 14-10 65 issued 
by the Central Silk Board , Wittot Road , Bombay 1 is published for General infur 
mation . 

H. R. Singli , 
Asstt. Secretary (GIL ) to the Govt. of Manipur . 


silk imported by the 


Central Silk Board - revised 


Subject : -- Dis , ribution of raw 

policy regarding . 


PRESS NOTE . 


It bas been decided that the remaining stock of Caives : rtw silk inported by 
the Central Silk Board last year 

under the Indo - China Birter Dual should be 
released to th: Actual Users subject to the condition that they purchase an equal 
quantity of indigonous filature raw silk . The cunsumours of raw silk in the country 
intending to secure allotments of foreign silk , inport of which is canalised through 
the Bourd only , are therefore requested to produce a d.crimentry evidence to 
prove that they have purchased an equal quantity of indigonous filatura raw silk 
before they approach the Board for allotment of foreign silk . It 

may 

be noted 
that purchase of improved basins raw silk or charka silk will not entitle any actual 
Users to receive allotment of foreign silk from the Bjarj. This procedure 
will be effective with effect from 1st Oct. 19., 5 . 


raw 


consumers of 


raw silk in 


This is notified for the general information of tho 
the country . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 9 , 1935 . 


" 11 " 


ADVERTISEMENT . 


Imphal, the 22nd October , 1958 . 
No. F - DPC ! 16/53.-- Applications are invited from women candidates for no temporary 
post of Lady Health Visitor for the Thoubal Community Developement Block in the 
sculo of Rs. 80-5-120 - EB - 6-150 / - p.m with usuil dearness allowances . The following 
are the inivimum qualitications. 

( 1 ) General Education latriculition Standari) . 
( 2 ) Technical 

Senior Certificate of Midwitery and certificate of Iſealth 

Visitor s Training 
2 . ( sandidates with the above qualifications 

may ap ; ly to the undersigned 
on or bufore the 3011 Nov. 19 : ū during Odlice kurs , giving ave , name, father s,Lusband s 
nume, permanent address and present address . Other things being equal preference will be 
given to “ ne who pos- es8 :49 knowledge of one or more of the local lan , nayes. Higher initial 
pay not exceeding 5 increinents may be given to (leserving candidates . 

Caudidates are to appear for an interview int their own expense if required 
to do so . 

T. KIPGEN , 
Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


3 . 


Imphal, the 31st October , 1955. 
No. T 28 / 55 - Sealed tenders will be received from the registered contractors 
upto Noon of 18-11-55 in the office of the Executive Engineer, Irrigation Division 
for the undermentioned work . Details may be made available from the office during 
oflice hours . 
Name of work Estimated cost 

Earnest money 
Extension of Secretariat Othco 

Rs. 31,360 / 

Rs. 781/ 
Building in Manipur State . 

Y. Tombi Singh , 
Executive Engineer , Irrigation Division , Imphal. 


Impbal, the 1st November , 19955 . 
No. 7.7. Press /Pub 55 . — The filluuius document is rep.iblislıcd fur veneral infor 
mation . 

Gopendra Sarma , 

Publicity Officer , Govt. of Manipur. 
Subjoct : -Special Rebate on retail salgs of Handloom Cloth 
The Govt. of India have decided to allow it special ri bate of six pies per rupee 
on all genuine rutail sales cif landloom cloth during the Diwali sod :on , this 

year . 
The effect of this concession is oxplained below . 
(a ) RETAIL SALES EFFECTED BY CONSUMERS CO -OPERATIVE SOCIE 

TIES AND STATE -OWNED DEPOTS . 
The maximum relats pirmissible on genuin4 retuil sales during the Diwali se : 4801 
will be two annas per rupee instead of ono annit six pies per rupee , 
(b ) RETAIL SALE ; EFFECTED BY CONSUMERS CO -OPERATIVE SOCITIES 

AND APPROVED FAIR PRICE SHOPS . 
The muximum rebate permissible on genuino retail sales during thy Diwali season 
will be one aunt 

six pies per ripee instead of ane a na per rupoe . 
2. For the purp 144 of this concession , the term “ Diwali season ” means the 
period from the 1st to the 15th November . 1955 , both days inolusive . 

3 . All other conditions of the scheme of rebate remain unaltered . 


12 


MAXIPUR . GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 9, 1965 . 


PRESS NOTE , 


Inphal, the 7th November , 1955. 
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAMME FOR SOAP MAKING WITH NON -EDIBLE 
( ILS FOR THE YEAR 1953-54 TRAINING OF PERSONS FROM 

1-1-1951 TO 31-3-51i . 


No. V. 7. PRESS /PUB /55.- The All India Khadi and Village Industries Board 
(Ministry of Production ) offers stipends tenable for three month , for training of soup 
making with non - edible oils , in year 1955-56 . The State Government, State Bourd , 
Institutions have to submit list of their nominees on or befure the 15th November 
1955. Applications will liave to be filled in duplicate on prescribed form obtainable 
from the oflice of the Board , Sulana House , Wiltot Road , Ballard Estate , Bombay - l . 

CATEGORIES OF TRAINING . 
1 . Supervisor - cum - Chc:vists : for full centres B. Sc . with Chemistry. Stipend Rs. 60 / 
per month for three months , places of training- Maharas.ra Seva Sangha , Neein 
Soap Training Contro , Eklatpur Via Sangola , Dist. Sholapur . 

2. Oil prossing Managers : Intermediate with Science . Stipend Rs . 4 (1,- per month 
for 3 months, place of training as above . 
3. Apprentice on Oil Pressing and Soip -raking : 

Soir - riskiny : Matriculate . Stipend Rs . 40 , 
per month for 

3 months ; plaeus of training - Kora Kendra Simpavalli, Bolivli , 
(Bombay ). 


[ Persons desirous of under going the above trainings may apply to the Director 
of Industries, Manipur, Gimson Road on or before the 15th Nov. 1955 and detailed 
information may be collected from his offico .] 


Gopendra Sarma , 
Publicity Officer , Govt . of Manipur , 


Implul, the 7th November , 1955 . 
No. K /IN -3/55.- The following Press Note received from the Office of Textile Commis 
sioner, Bombay is republished for general in ormation . 

H. R. Singh , 
Asstt . S :crotary (GIL ) to the Govt. of Manipur . 


l RESS NOTE . 


Certain difficulties have been experience i liy tł10 Silk Trade in Indiu regarding 
the clearance of their consignments of Tassar Silk Fabrios , oxported to foreign countries, 
at the destination in the almence of a Cortificate about the origin and contents of 
goods exported . In order to oviate these difficulties, it has been decided to introduce, 
with iminediate effect, a procedure of certification by the Govt. of India . The procedure 
will be as follows. The oxporters of Silk Fabrics in General and Taggar Şilk Fabrics 
in particular will , in their own interest, forward to the Secretary, Central Silk Board , 
office of the Textile Commissioner , Haraw sla Building , Wittet Road , Ballard Estate , 
Bombay - l , the samples of silk goods that they desire to export to foreign countries 
with necessary details . The samples will be oxamined by the Board and its seal 
affixed on them certifying the origin and contents of such samples and then returned 
to the Partios concerned to effect exports. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 9 , 1956 . 


13 


NOTICE No. 3 , 


2 . 


Imphal, the 3rd Novembar , 1955 . 
Applications are invited for the following temporury posts in the Co -operative 
Department, Manipur State . The last day of submitting the application is 19-11-55 . 

1. Inspectors of Co -operative Societies in the pay scale of Rs . 100-100-110 

(con ) 3.140 - E B - 10-20 )-EB - 10 260 /- p . m . 
Assistant Auditors of Co -operative Societies in the pay scale of Rs. 

100 . 
5-150-10-200 / - p . m . 
3 . One Upper Division Clerk in the pay scale of Rs . 100-5-150 p . m . 
4 . One Lower Division Clerk in the pay scale of Rs. 40-2-50 - EB - 3-80 - EB 

4-100 /-p . m . 
5 . One Chowkidar in the puy scale of Rs. 22-1-28l-p . m . 
2. QUALIFICATIONS 
( a ) Inspectors 

(i) Minimum - Intermediate pass. 
( ii) Desirable - Diploma or practical experionce in Co 

operation . Mathematics , Economics or Arcountancy 

as one or the subjects studied in College. 
( lo) Assistant Auditor s 

( i ) Minimum - Matriculate 

(ii ) Desirable same as a ( ii ) above . 
( c ) U. 1. Clerk 

(i) Minimum --Matriculation with previous office experi 

ence in resposible capacity . 

(ii) Desirable - Shorthand & Type -writing . 
( d ) L. 1) . Clerk 

(i) Minimum - Matriculation . 
( ii) Desirable - pro vious Experience . Shorthand and 

typewriting. 
3 . Applic ints shall apply specifioally for one or more of the above posts with 
details of their qualifications , experience , age, number of wives living eto . 

4. Government employees wanting to apply should do so through the prisper 
channel. 

5 . Other things being equil , preference will be given to persons who know one 

more of the local langurys and familiar with local conditions . Applicants 
should be prepared to surve in the hill aroas . 

6 . Caudidates will be required to appear in an Interview with the original 
certificates at the offi.e of the undersigned at 11 a. m . on the dates as shown below : 

(a ) Inspectors of Co -op . Societies 24-11-55 . 
( b ) rlssistant Auditors , do 

25-11-55 . 
( c ) Upper Division & Lower Division Clerk 26-11-55 . 
(u ) Chowkidar 

28-11-56 . 

Sd / - Illegible . 
Asstt. Registrar , Co- op , Societies , Manipur. 


or 


Imphal :--- Printed and published by ihe superlatondent Government Press 0.227 /9-11-55 . 


Manipur 


LE 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 39 - E - 10 


Imphal, Thursday , November 17, 1955 . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 


Imphal, the 3rd November, 1955 . 
No. K /IN -49 :54 A . -- ... supersession of Chief Commi-sioner s order of oven number 
dated the 24th loi ember , 1954 the ( hief Commissioner is pleased to appoint 
temporarily Shri Upendra Mohan Sinha , Sericulture Inspector to the post of Director 
of Industries created in the Government of India , Ministry of Commerce and In 
dustry letter No. 1P ( A )-14 ( 41 )/54 dated the 4-9-54 in the scale of Rs. 250-250-300 
Con - 20-100 -EB - 26-600 /- with effect from the 25th November, 1954 upto the end 
of February , 1955 or the filling up of the post by the Union Public Service 
Commission whichever is earlier . 


The ospindituro is debitable to the Industries Budget of this State . 


11. R. Singh , 
Asstt. Secretary (GIL ) to the Govt . of Manipur . 


Imphal, the 8th November, 1955 . 


No. H. Apptt.37./55/41.-In continuation of this Secretariat orders No. Apptt.37 /55/9 
dated 4th ( ctober, 1955 , the Chief Commissioner is pleased to continue the appoint 
ment of Major V. S. Sundaram , Deputy Commissionor, Manipur to hold charge of 
the post of Development Commissioner. Manipur in addittion to his own duties for 
u further period of three months or till appointment of a whole time officer wbich 
ever is earlier . 


A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


ROUTINE ORDER No. 137 of 31-10-55 . 


Imphal, the 31st October , 1955 . 
In sercive of the powers conferred upon me under Instruction 4 of the Instructions 
governing the assessment and payment of compensation in respect of lands requisitioned 
in Manipur during World War II as approved by the Government of India , Ministry 
of States vide their lotter No. 26 /69 /Clains/SHD of the 4th October, 55 . I hereby 
authorise Shri 11. K. Birendra Singh , S.D.C. i/c A.F. Compensation to dispose of summarily : 
all disputes arising out of oonflicting compousation claims. This will have restruspectivo 
effect with regard to the cases already disposed of by the said Officer. 


V. S. SUNDARAM , 
District Collector, Manipur . 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 17 , 1955 . 


raies Pe ll 


TENDER NOTICE No. 24 . 

Imphal, the 1st November, 1955 . 
Separate seal:-d tendera superscribed as “ Tender for construction of Gate Barriers 
at ..... 

quoting the 

itein of work given below , 
will be received at the Ofline of the undersigned upto 2 P. M. of 25th November , 
1955 during Ollice hours and will let opened at 3-0 1. M. of the day . 

Each fonderer must deposit an earnest. money of Rs. 10 / - ( liupees ten ) only for 
each work in Truphal Treasury which will be refunded in case of the insloopssful 
tonderers and will lie ronverted int :) cantion monei in of succesful tenderers . 
A copy of Trea - uly ( hal.. should loe rejected . The estimated cost for each work 
is Rs. 100 /- (Rupees one hundred ) only . 

1 . Gato Barrier to be constructed at Sokmai on the main D. 11. Road . 


to 


Particulars of work , 
( a ) ( ross bar of Uningthou ( planned ). Two iron straps of l .." wido " thick 
and as long as th : bar to be fitted on two sides of this bar stringthin the 
bar and properly bolted with bolts of ! " diamotro ilud j long it intervals of 8 " 
throughout tbe length of tho bar and i . C. Balance weight to be fitted at 

one 
end of the bar to facilitate moving of the bar up and down , according to the 
direction of the Ranger concerned . 

( b ) Removing of the existing irou post and re -posting to convenient sites 
pointed out by the langer concerned . To one iron post a curved iron piece should 
be fitted to receive the bar and keep under lock and key . 
৪ . Gate Barrier to be constructed at l angei. 

Particulars of work . 
(a ) Similar to) 1 (a ) . 

( b ) Replacing of existing three gate posts with new Uil (.Albizzia Procera ) 7 . 
in length and 10 " in diametre . Uther particulars are similar to 1 (b ) above . 
Drawing iind detaile l particulars may 

may be bad 

fruin the Office of the Forest 
Officer, Manipur during Office bours . 

li . K. B. C. Singh , 
Forest Ollicer , Government of Manipur. 
“আপিল ” 

Imphal, the 8th November , 1955 . 
শােক ১৯৫৫ গী ডিসেম্বর তাং ৭ অসি ভারত পুম্বগী গে ডে পালন্ তৌবা মিংনি । মনিপুৰসু নিৎ অসি 
পালন্ তৌগান । সুমিং অসিদা ভারতকী মফম পুমনমা মচু অনুমগ ফারাল মচা অমসুং অচেীৰ 
মম অসিদা মােনগনি । 


ফীরাল মচা ১ গ মল অনা • 

অচৌবা , সুপা ১ 
ফীরালশিং অমি যােনবগী ফংলকপা শেল অদুন। ভারতকী লানমিশিং অমসুং লানমিসর্গ থবক তােকল অশােৰু 
অনা সিফায়শিংগী কানবা থবক্তা শিজিন্ননবা ফ্লেগ ডে ফন্ ওইগনি । 

মনিপুরগী মফম পুমনমক হয়ৰাি মুমিৎ অসিদা ফীলশিং অসি য়োনগনি । ফীরালশিংসি মােনদা এশিংনা 
মতে পিবিৱগা ফন্ অসি মপুং ফাকা গুমগনি । 

পুচে চাওরবা দেশ বাসিশিংনা দানপমশ ওইনা ফীল অমমম লৈবিয়ু অমসুং অঙম অঙৰা মতে পৰি 
# গ ডে ফন্ অসি নপুং ফাহনবিয়ু হায়না আপিল তোজরি । 

মেজর ভি , এস , সুন্দরাম, 
ডি , এস, এণ্ড চেয়ারমে , 
ফ্লেগ ডে ফন্ কমিটি , মনিপুর । 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 17 , 1955 . 


3 


or 


NOTICE No. IS ; 19, 52. 

Imphal, the 17th Nov. 55 . 
No. IS / 19 /52.- Applications stating are, full address , qualifications number of wives 
living and previous experienco are invited for a ti-mporary post of a l andit in the 
Tekcham Gurt. L. P. School in the scale of pay , Rs. 3 :1-1-335 - EB - )-40 p . m . with 
D. A. 

The applications will be received loy the Inspector of Schools , Manipur in 
his office upto 25/11/55 . Other things being equal preference will be given to the 
candidite who know s one more of the local languages . ( audidates are to attend 
the office of the Inspecter of Schouls , Manipur ( 28/11/55 for interview . 

Imphal, the 511. lovenler, 19 : 5 . 
Applications stating Edurational Qualifications, age , previous experience and number 
of living wives are invited for the posts of some tomporary Graduato tvar.hers in 
Chaoyaima High School in the scale of pay Rs. 10 : 3-10-139 - E3-10-2511 / - p . m . 

with 
dearness allowances as admissible under rules . Applications should be sulmitted to 
the undersigned on or befuse the 21st of Vov . , 1955 . Candidates are required to 
furnish two chariçter certificates from Gazetted Officors one of which inust be attested 
by the Sub - 1 ) ivisional Officer in who : e jurisdiction they live. 

K. Gruro Singh , 
Inspector of Schools , Manipur . 


PRESS YOTE . 

Imphal, the 9th November, 1995 ) . 
UNESCO Technical Assistant Programine 1956-57- fellowships in Fundamental Educh 
tion and Rural Training . 

The UNESCO bas offere ] eight fell wships to India Nationals , under tho Tochnical 
Assistance Programme during the year 1956-57 . Four of these fellowships will be in 
the field of Fundam : ntal Education and four on Rural Teacher Training tenable from 
6 months to one year. 

A I thie expens34 on account of the fellows will be burne 
by UNESCO . 

QUALIFICATION VESSART :-(1) ( andidates should at least by University graduates 
with field experience in Social, Rural or Basic education of at least 5 yuars ( 2 ) must 
be suitably employed ( 3 ) must 206 be over 45 years of age and (4 ) should clearly 
indicate the subject or educational field for which they would like to be considered . 

Applications in the prescribed UNESCO forms in quadruplicate in addition to one 
in the Ministry of Education prescribed form (obtivable from the Office of the 
Assistant Secretary Education ) complele in all respects including language and medical 
certificates in the prescribed forms will be received by the Asstt . Secretary /Education 
upto 18th November, 195.) . 

Gopendra Sarma, 

Publicity Officer, Manipur . 
নােভিশ । 

তাং ১২।১১ । ৫৫ ইং 
অসিনা মরম ওই প্রজাশিদা খহজরি মরমপি 

পাতা লেইবা য়াদে হায়না গভর্নমেন্টনা 

গভর্নমেন্টন হুকুম 
ভরবক্তা লৌউবর্গীদমক লিজ হোলদর ওইদ্রব মী ১৩২ গী লো পরি ৭৬ মৰাক অসি তাং ১১-১১-৫৫ ইংদা ক্রোক 
তেদুনা পােলিশকী জিমাদা থমলে হাবিবা লৌফম অসিদা ছোরিব। ফেনা অই তাং ২৫-১১-৫৫ ইং ইরাই মিৎক । 
অমুক পুং ১১ তাবা মতমদা ইম্ফাল ওয়েষ্ট তহশীল অফিসত লৌফম য়াওদনা নিলাম তৌছুনা য়োনগনি । 

কনাগু 
হামরি ফৌন অসি পান্থীশিংনা হায়জরি উক্ত তারিখ অমসুং মফমদা নিলাম ওকপির য়াগনি । 

& foi 
R. K. Mani Sana Singh , 
Sub - Deputy Collector , ]. V. T. 


লশফেল 


Imphal :-Printed and publisbed by ihe superintendent Government Press O. 200 / 17-11-55 . 


LABU 


Manipur 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 40 - E - 11 


Imphal, Thursday , November 24 , 1955 . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Order by the Chief Commissioner . 


Imphal, the 17th November, 1958 . 


No. F -DPC /4 /52.- The Chief Commissioner is pleased to constitute a Block Advisory 
Board for the Mao - Maram National Extension Service Block ( 1954-55 Series ) with 
the following members . The term of the Advisory Board will be for one year in 
the first instance from the date of issue of this order . 


Chairman . 


Member & Secretary . 

Meinbor . 


3 . 


99 


1. Shri A. Daibo , Allviser to the Govt. of Manipur 
2 . K. Obou , Block Development Officer , 

Mno- Maram NES Block 

0. Kathipri , Asstt . Secretary ( Tribal) 
4 . N. Modoli, Tribal Development Officer 
5 . S. Lorho , Asstt. Head Master , Mao - Maram 

Goveroment High School 
6 . 

Banik , Medical Officer, Mao Civil Hospital 
7 . D. Thoiso, Member , Electoral College , Liyai 
8 . H. Kaikbo 

Punauamei 
9 . 

Raising of Maram , Agrioulturist 
10 . K. Kashipri of Tadubi 
11 , 

N. Mathibo of Kalin imei 
18. Ch. Nguni of Tunggam 
13 . Apao of Soranami 
14 . K Daili , Secy . Tadubi M. P. Society 
10 . K. Noni, Member of Mao M. P. Society 
16 . 

Oba Hepuni of Purul 
17 . Kbai of Oinam 
18 . 

N. Kaisho of Pudunamei 
19 . 

Demkholam of Chalbany 
2 ), 

Thimoso of Lakbamei 
21. 

Khapi of Laji 
Ringai of Ngari 


:: 


: 
: 


22 . 


T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 24 , 195.1. 


Imphal, the 8th November , 1955 . 
No. 7.10.DFS / PUB /55 .-- The following Notific :itions received from the Government 
of India , Ministry of Information & Broadcasting , New Delhi-- 2, are republished for 
general ipformation . 

Gopendra Sharnia , 
Publicity Officer, Manipur . 


NOTIFICATION 


New Delhi - 2 , the 5th Oct., 1955 . 
S.R.O ....... In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( ) of section 5 
of the Cinematograph Act , 1952 (XXXVII of 1952 ), the Central Goverument hereby 
directs ! : 20 the film entitled " Black - board Jungle " produce 1 by Matro - Goldwyn - Mayer, 
U.S.A. shall be deemed to be uncertitied fiirus in the whole of ludia . 

( VO . 8 /21/55 - FC ) 


D. Krisbria Ayyar , 
Under Secretary to the Govt. of India . 


ORDER 


New Delhi- 2 , the 27th Oct., 1955 . 
S.R.O ....... In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions 
of each of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the Order of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S.R.O. 945 d.uted the 28th 
April , 1955 the Central Advisory Board , Bombay hereby ertifies the film specified 
in column 2 of the schedule hereto annesod , in all its language versions, to be 
of the description specified against it in the corresponding entry of column 6 of the 
said schedule . 

SCHEDULE 


S. No. 


Title of the 

Film . 


Source of supply 


8 


Name of the 
producer . 


Whether & scientific film or 
film intended for educational 
purposes or a film dealing with 
news and current events or a 
documentary film . 


phone 


2 


3 


5 


1 Indian News 

Review 
No. 367 . 


Government of 
Indin , Films Di 
vision , Bombay . 


Guvernment of Film dealing with news and 
India , Films Di current events . 
vision , Bombay . 

( 1 / 16 / 55 - F :App ;55 ) 


D. Krishnı Ay yar , 
Under Secretary to the Govt. of India . 


NOTIFICATION 


New Delhi- " , the 22nd October , 66 . 
No. 1 / 172 / 55 - Qomn.-- Shri T.R.V. Chari, Deputy Secretary , Ministry of Information 
and Broadcasting , is appointed Principal Information Officer, l’rese Information Bureau . 
with effect from the 19th October , 1965 . 

V. KUMAR , 
Deputy Secretary to the Govt. of India . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 24 , 1985 . 


con 


ORDER 

No. 6 48 /55 - FC . 

New Delhi- 2 , the 22nd Oct., 195.) 
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 9 of the Cinematograph Act , 1952 
(XXXVIIof1952), the Central Government hereby exempts the exhibition of films as in the 
Schedule annexed bereto by Miss Marie Seton from the provisions of Part II of the said 
Act subject to the following conditions : 

(i ) No admission fose sliall be charged . 
( ii ) The Slms shall be exbilitud only by way ofdemonstration in connection 

with the lecture delivered by Alarie Seton . 
(iii ) Members of the l entral Board of Film Censory and its Advisory 

Pinel-, Regional and Assistant Regional Officers of the Board and em 
ployees of the State Governments engaged in the vischarge of their 
official duties shall be admitted to the places and to film shows. 

SCHEDULE 
Back of Beyond , Australian Documentary - Extracts - 10 mm , 759 ft. 
Hue and Cry - British feature --Extract , 16 mm . 400 ft. 
Nanouk of the North - American Docudientary - Extract 16 mm . 200 ft . 
Film & lieality - Part 4. Extract features & documentaries - 16 mm . 1,600 ft. 
Kameradschaft - German feature - Extract -- 16 mm . 800 ft . 
L. ldea-- French short - Extract - 16 mm . 500 ft . 
Papagenom Extract--16 mm . 400 ſt . 
Mother - Russjan foatur — Extract — 16 mm . 700 ft . 
11 Dramma Di Cristo French foature - Extract - 16 mm . 400 ft. 
Thoy were expendablo - American feature – Extract - 16 iom . 400 ft . 
October- Russian feature - Extract- 16 mm , 400 ft . 
Earth - Russian feature - Extract - 16 mm . 400 ft . 
Le Million - Frech feature - Extract 16 mm . 250 ft. 
Battleship ( temkin October 

( omposite reels — 16 mm , 800 ft . 
General Ime Alexander Nevsky 
Time in the Sun 

} Composite reels — 16 mm , 490 ft. 
Ivan the Terrible 
Sunday in August- Italian feature - Extract - 16 mm , 400 ft . 
Salt of the Earth - American feature - Extract- 35 mm , 500 ft. 
The immigrant- Chaplin - Extract - 16 mm , 800 ft . 
Storm over Asia - Russjan feature - Extract - 16 mm , 35 ft . 
Sturm over Asia - Further extract - 16 mm , 400 ft . 
Children of Hiroshima - Exiract - Japanese feature - 15 mm 300 ft . 
New Gulliver - Sovier Puppet film - Extract - Wedding Scene - 16 min , 400 ft . 
Magic Canvas- British cartoon - colour - 16 mm . 100 ft . 

D. Krishna Ayyar , 
Under Secretary to the Govt . of India . 


} 


NOTIFICATION 

New Delhi 2 , the 22nd (October , 1955 . 
No. 1/172 /55. - Adam : Sri M. L. Bhardwaj, officiating Principal Information Officer, 
Press Information Bureau , on relief by Sri T. R. V. Chari , is appointed Officer on 
Special Duty in the Ministry of Information and Boardcasting with effect from the 
19th October , 1955 , until further orders . 

V. KUMAR , 
Deputy Secretary to the Govt. of India 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 24 , 1968 . 


NOTICE 

Imphal, the 4th November , 1955 . 
No. DVC /AIU / 181/55 /5. - Applications are invited for the following posts in the 
Administrative Intelligence Unit attached to the Development Commissioner , Manipur 
an will be received by the undersigned upto November 30 , 1955 . 

( 1 ) One Statistical Officer in the scale of pay at Rs. 150-150-200 (con ) 

10-260 - E B - 10-300-12 ) -375 - EB - 12 , -450 / 
( 2 ) One Statistical Assistant at Rs. 10 ) - 67-150 / 
( 3 ) One Assistant -Cum - Draftsman at Rs. 100-5-150 / 
( 1) One Lower Division Clerk - cum - Typist at Rs. 40-2-50 EB - 3-80 -EB- * 

100 / 
2 . The requisite qualifications of the candidates are Honours Graduatı or M. As . 
in Economics/ or Statistics for ( 1 ) , Graduates with Mathematics and /or Economics for 
(2 ), and ( 3 ), and Matriculates with a minimum speed of 40 words per minute in 
typing for ( 4 ) above . Candidates with some statistical experience or trainin will 
bu preferred ud increment in pay upto a maximum of 6 yeirs may be given to suffi 
ciently qualified persons in the case of ( 1) above . 1. A.6 . , 1. Scs , I. Coms. will be 
given preference in the case of (4 ) above . 
3. Applications should state : - 

( 1) Name of the applicant . 
( 2) Date , plare & district of birth . 
( 3 ) Married or not ; if married , number of wives living and children . 
( 4 ) Father s name & profession . 
(5 ) Educational qualifications - Examinations passed , classes or divisions in which 

passed , subjects taken therein , yuar in which passed , Name of the School/ 

College/University from which passed . 
(6 ) Previous experience indicating post held , institution where it was beld , 

salary drawn , period of service and reasons for leaving the job , and 
( 7 ) Details of experience of social work in rural areas. 

Candidates will be required to attend at their own expenso , the selection 
test to be held on Dec., 5 , 1955 at 11 m . in the office of the Development 
Commissioner , Manipur . 

V. S. Sundaram , 
Development Commissioner , Manipur. 


4 . 


a , 


or 


Imphal, the 17th November, 1955 . 
Applications stating father s name, full address , number of wives living ( if married ) , 
supported by two character Certifioates from the Gazetted Officers 

respectable 
gentlemen with attested copies of certificates in proof of age and educational qualifications 
are invited for three post of Traffic Inspectors in the scale of Rs . 65-5–140 /- in Manipur 
State Transport Department and will be received by the undersigned upto the 25th 
November , 1955. Applicants should at least be Matriculate . Other things being 
equal. Proference will be given to candidates knowing one or more local languages . 


8. Palit, 
Officer on Special Duty , M.S. T. 

Imphal. 


+ 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 24 , 1955 . 


Imphal, the 17th November , 1957 . 
No. Tax / 10 / 55. — The following Land Customs Notice issued by the Collector , 
Central Excise & Land Customs, Shillong , is published for general information . 

A. K. Ray, 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


on 


Land Customs Notice . 
It is hereby notified that some wrist watches war seizod by the Land Customs 
Officer ( l rev . ) Imphal 2-11-54 from the following two persons separately . 
for illegal importation from Burma . The particulars of the seized wrist watches are 
mentioned in scheduled I below against the respective owners . Show cause 

notices were 
issued to both the owners by the Assistant Collector of Central Excise Silchar asking 
them to state why their respective wrist watch - s should not be confiscated and why 
penal action should not be taken against them under section 7 of the Land Customs 
Act, 1924 & section 19 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878. The sbow cause notices were 
however, received back from the postal authorities undelivered with remarks "not 
found " , " not known . 

The owners mentioned below are directed by this notice to show cause to the 
undersigned against the action proposed within 10 days from the date of publication 
of this notice . If they fail 
If they fail to do so , the cases will be decided on the 

evidence 
available on this office records. 

Schedule I. 
Sl. No. Name & address of the owner from Quality & Quantity of Date of S.C.N. 
whom the wrist watches seized . 

the wrist watches 

issuod by A.C., 
Silcbar. 


Ware 


) . Mr. Tawthama lo late Japai, vill-Koupi, Gent s wrist watches 

17.2.55 
P. O. Churaclaridpur , (Manipur State ). (Roamer , Stainless Steel 

No. 215999/180459 ) — 

40 Nog . 
2. Mr. Taia s /o late Laltawka , vill -Koupi, Gent s wrist watches 

24.2.55 . 
P.O. Churachandpur , (Manipur State ) . ( Roanier , Stainless Steel 

No. 215999/180459 ) - 

40 Nos . 
It ja hereby notified that the goods mentioned in the Schedule I below , were 
seized by the Land Customs Officer (Prev .) , Churuchandpur , Manipur on 9.3.55 from 
the possession of Sri Piangthula Lushni 8/0 late kaprila Lushai, vill, Khuangleng. 
P.O. Aijal, Dist . - Mizo accompanied by one Sri Thangsum Lushni, s / o lato Raliandal 
Lushai, vill . Khugleng, P.O. - Aijal, Dist. Mizo for illegal_importation from Burma. 
Show cause Notices issiled against Sri Piangthula Lushai, the owner of the 
goods and Sri Thangsum asking them to state why tbe seized goods should not 
be confiscated and why penal action should not be taken against them under section 
7 of the Land Customs Act , 1924 and section 167 ( 8 ) of the Sea Customs Act , 187 % . 
The Show cause Notices were , huwever , received back from the Postal authorities undeli 
vered with remarks “ Not found ” . 

Sri Piangthula Lushai and Sri Thangsım Lushai are directed by this notice to 
show cause to the undersignod against the action proposed , within 10 days from 
the date of publication of this notice . If they fail to do so , the case will be decided 
on the evidence availabloo on this office records . 

Schedule I. 
Description of goods seized . 

Quantity . 
1 , Gillette Blades (Made in England ) .; Cartoons (each containing 20 packets of 10 

blades ) 
2. 7 O clock blades ( Do 

285 cartoons (each containing 20 packets of 

10 blades ) 
3 . Reform Fountainpen (Made in German ) i dozen . 

Vyas Dov , 

Colleotor, 
Central Excise & Lend Customs, Shillong . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 24 , 1955 . 


NOTICE No. IS / 58 /53. 

Imphal, the 17th November , 1955 . 
Applications statiny name, full address, qualifications, and number of wives living 
if married and previous experience are invited for the post of one Assistant Inspector 
of Schools for Tamenglong area in the scale of pay , Rs . 75-21-100 - + - 120 /- p . m . 
with D. A. The applications will be received by the undersigned upto 30th November , 
1955 . The applicants will attend the office of the Inspector of Scho Is at 10 A.M. 
on 2-12-05 for interview with necessary 

certificates . Other things being equal 
preference will be given to candidates who know one or more local languages. 
The minimum qualifications should be norical or Basis trained Mitriculates . 


ore 


NOTICE No. 28 / TE of 1955 . 
Applications stating age, qualification , experience in teaching (if any ) and also 
number of living wives , if married invited for the post of Offg . Slead Master 
of Bongpa M. E. School on pily scale of Rs . 55-2.75 (EB ) -3-90 plus 181al Dearness 
allowance as admissible under rule . 

None need apply who is not a matriculate of a recognised university . 

The applications will be received by the undersigned upto 30th Noveruber, 19955 . 
Preference will be given to candidate knowing two or more local 

mora local languages . The 
candidates are required to appear before the Inspector of Schools Maipur on the 
same day at 1-30 p . m . for interview . 

K. Gouro Singh , 
Inspector of Schools, Manipur. 


Imphal, the 17th November, 1955. 
No. V. 7. PRESS /PUB.155.– The following Press Note in republished for general 
information 

Gopendra Sharma, 

l ublieity Officer , Manipur, 
PRESS INFORMATION BUREAU : GOVERNMENT OF INDIA . 

PRESS NOTE . 
DELIVERY OF BOOKS TO PUBLIC LIBRARIES 
The Government of India have declared the Central Library , Town Hall , Bombay , 
as one of the public libraries under the Delivery of Books ( Public Librariie ) Act, 1954. 

The Act provides for the free and compulsory supply of one copy of all books 
published in India to the National Library , Calcutta iind to each of three public 
libraries so declared by the Government of India . 

Sometine ago the Connormira Public Library , Madras was declared as a " Public 
Library." "The present notification brings the number of " Public Libraries " to two, 
excluding the National Library, Calcutta . The third " Public Library " has yet to be 
specified . 

The Central Government desire to draw the attention of all publishers of books 
in India that under the said Act , failure to supply the books to the Nationa ! Li 
brary, Calcutta , Connermara Public Library , Madras, and the Central Library, Town 
Hall , Bombay , will be an offence under the Act . 

The object of the Act was to secure for the country four libraries in four diffe 
rent parts of the country , which , by stocking all books published in India , will act 
as Centres for the promotion of knowledge and research . 
Ministry of Education 
New Delhi, November, 7, 1958 . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 24 , 1955 . 


7 


Imphal, tbe 21 November , 1955 . 
No. K / IN -63/55. - The foliowing letter No. 18 ( 9y/ TM & P /55 dated the lat November , 
1955 received from the Under Secretary to the Govt. of India , Ministry of Commerce 
and Industry , New Delhi, is published for general imformation : 

H. R. Singh , 
Asstt. Secretary (GIL ) t • the Govt . of Manipur . 


Subject : Centenary of the Indian Patent system . 
I am directed to 

say that one 

hundred years will have passed on the 28th 
Frebuary , ! 956 , since the first Indian Patents Act ( Act VI of 185 ;) for the protec 
tion an eucouragewont of inventions come into force . The Govt . of India have 
decided to celebrate the Centenary of the Patent system in India in February next 
year. I be celebration will 

will be held in Calcutta and will commence on the 28th 
February , 1956 . 

2 . The Ranji Stadium ut Calcutta has been tentatively selected as a probable 
site for the exhibition . The programme will include an cxhibition of patented ma 
chines and articles , registered designs and also products of Injian manufacture , a 
symposium on patents loy industrialists, research scholars, lawyers and patent agents . 
and the publication of a Souvenir. Thic Ministry of Comwerce and Industry have 
appointed a sub - committee composed of their officers located in Calcutta and repre 
sentatives of other Ministries to work out the details of the celebrations . 
3. Applications from private firms and individuals 

individuals for space in the exhibition 
site , which will be rented out at Rs. 2/- per sq . ft . sliould reach the Controller of 
Patents and Designs , 214 , Lower Circular Road . Calcutta , 17 , by the 30th Novem 
mber , 1955. Arrangements have been made to grant import facilities to exbibitors . 

4 . It is proposed to publish in the Sourvunir articles on Indian and foreign 
patent law and practice and other matters of interest to industrialists and inventors. 
Advertisements may be insorted in the Souvenir at rites approved by the Committee . 
which are 

Rs. 100 / - for a full page , Rs. 60 , - for a half page and Rs. 30 /- for a 
quarter page . 

5 . A brochure containing informution and rules for the guidance of exhibitions 
is being issued shortly by the Controller of Petents and Designs . Calcutta . 

6 . The Government of India will be grateful if you will give the centenary 
celebrations tbe widest possible publicity in your 

State and also intimate to 
the Controller of Patents and Designs , the number of copies of the brochure 
required by you for distribution . Persons desirous of participating in the exhibition 
or inserting advertisements in the Souvenir or contributing articles for inclusiva 
in the Souvenir , may be abvise i to communicato immediately to the Controller of 
Patents and Designs, 214 , Lower Circular Road , Calceutta - 17 . 


নােভশ । 

তাং ১৭। ১১ / ৫৫ ইং 
a : CP / V - 1/52 / SSE dated 7-11-55 . aftay 98 ozgat #fagfa cetator Farfait cecacatatapos 
লোকী ৱাংল ফার্মদা ফৌ নিলাম তোদুনা তাং ১৮১১৫৫ ইংগী পুং ১১ মতমদা উক্ত ফাল মােনগনি 
( ইগনি ) লৈবিনিংশিংনা মতম চানা লাকপিদুনা নবির য়াগনি । চাওয়াকনা ফৌ মন 

ta ? 00 nafai 


Ut ! 


K. L. Singh , 
Project Executive Officer , Manipur . 


Imphal : 

-Printed and published by ibe suporistondent Government Press 0. 201/24 11-55 . 


सन्धमलजयन 


Manipur 


Gazette 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 41 


Imphal, Wednesday , November 30 , 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 
Part Ill .-- Orders, Notifications, Rulos of 
the Government of ladia , 

3 to 26 
Part IV .- Advertisements and Noticos oto . 27 to 32 


Part 1 .--- Appointments , Postings , Transfers , Powers, 

Leavo and other personal noticos, 
Part 11.-- Resolutions, Regulations , Orders , Votin 

cations , Rules otc . 


1 


2 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 10th November, 1955 . 
No. CA /44 /55. - The Chief Commissioner is pleased to create the post of an 
Additional Assistant Souretary /Finance in the Manipur Secretariat for the clearanoh 
of the Audit Objections in the scale of Rs. 250-250-300 ( Con )-25-400 (EB ) -25-600 ( EB ). 
25-060 /- for a period of three months from the date of issue of this order and 
to appoint Shri R. K. Sanahal Singh , Taxatiou Oficer, Manipur to this post in 
addition to his present duties . 

2. The expenditure will be mut out of the sanctioned budget estimates of the 
current year. . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt of Manipur. 


Imphal, the 25th November , 1955 . 
No. FA / 2 /54 .-- The Chief Commissioner is pleased to grant Shri Thingom Kalsehand 
Singh , Assistant Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur, Finance Department, earned 
leave for 13 days from 19-9-55 to 1-10-56 suſfixing 2-10-55 under the Revised Leave 
Rules , 1933 as liberalised froiu 1-2-1949 . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


Imphal, the 29th November, 1955 . 
No. H.Cin . 15:55. - In exercise of the powers delegated to him under the Govern 
ment of India , Ministry of Information & Broadcasting Notification No. 30 / 14 / 32 -FII 
dated the 31st July , 1982 the Chief Commissioner is ploased to appoint Shri M. 
Brajamani Sharma, Electrical Engineer, Manipur as Electric Inspector (Cinematograph ) 
under Part III, Soction 10 of the Cinernatograph Act , 1952 (XXXVII of 1962 ) and 
rule 2 ( V ) of the Manipur Cinematograph Rulss, 196 ) . 


T. KIPGEN , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1955 . 


PARTU 


Imphal, the 2nd November, 1965 . 
No. FA / 93,51/58. - lu exercise of the powers o inferred upon him by serial N0443 
under Appendix 14 of The compilation of the Fundamental and Supplementary 
Rules Volume II and in partial inodifirations of this Secretariut Order No. FA /93 /51/ 
dated the 6th April , 1953 the Chief Commissiouer is pleased to declare that tbd 
In pector General of Prisoners shall be the Head of Department for sho Manipur 
Statc Jail. 

A. K. Ray , 

Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 

Jmphal, the 8th November , 1955 . 
No. K / IN / 49 /54 / B. - In continuation of Chief Coumissioner s Order No IN - 49 / 54 / A 
dated the 3rd November, 1955 the Chief Commissioner is pleased to suction the 
continuance of the post of Director of Industries 

Industries creatod in thH Government of 
India , Ministry of Commorce and Industry letter No. JP ( A ) -14 (41)/ 54 dated the 4th 
September , 1954 in the scale of Rs. 250-250-3 10-1 on - 20-400 -EB - 25-600 /- with effect 
from the 1st Murch , 1955 upto the end of February , 1956 and also the continuando 
theroin of Shri U. M. Sinha upto the end of February 1956 or the filling up of 
the post by the Union Public Service Commission whichever is earlier . 
The expenditure is debitable to the In lustry Budget of this State . 

Imphal, the 17th November, 1985 . 
No. K /IN - 38 /54. - 10 supersession of the Chief Commi-sioner s Order No. IN - 169 /51 
dated 18-10-62 the Chief Cummiss.oner is pleased to order that the Director of 
Industries , Manipur will be the Chief Iar peot s of Factories for this State in addi 
tion to his own duties until further orders . 

By order , 

H. R. Singh , 
Asatt. Secretary (GIL ) to the Govt . of Manipur . 

Imphal, the 22nd November , 195 ) . 
No. V 7.Pross /Pub /55 .-- The following notification is published for general infor 
mantion . 

Gopendra Sharma , 

Publicity Officer Manipur . 
NOTIFICATION 

Imphal, the 13th October , 1955 . 
PR . 4-168 /65. — WHEREAS the book entitled NAVOD AYUDE KATHEE in Mala 
yalam , written by Shri C. M. Kesavan and printed at Green Book House , Puthenchanthai, 
Trivandrum , contains objectionable matter within the meaning of Section 3 ( vi) of the 
Press (Objectionablo Matter) Act , 1951 (( entral Act LVI of 1951) , in that many 
stanzas in the aforesaid bo : k contain matters which are grossly indecent and obscene ; 

AND , whereas the Advocate Guneral, Travancore - Cochin , has granted a certificate 
under Section 11 of the said Act that aforesaid book contains objectionable matter 
within the meaning of Section 3 (vi) of the said Act ; 

Now , therefore , the Government of Travancore -Cochin , in exercise of powers 
conferred by Section 11 of the said Act hereby declare all copies of the aforysaid 
book and all other documents cootaning copies , reprints, translations or extracts 
from the aforesaid book to be forfeited to Government on 

the grounds 

specified 
in this Order . 

By order of His Highness the Raj Pramukh , 
Public Relations Department , 

V. R. Narayanan Nair , 
Govt. Secretariat , Trivandrum . 

Dy. Secretary to Government . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1966 . 


3 


PART UI 

Imphal, the 17th October, 1953 . 
No. J/ 15 /54/(c).- The following Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendinent) Act, 1955 is republished 
for general information . 

A. K. Ray, 

Chief Secretary to the Govt , of Manipur . 
THE CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 
(AMENDMENT) ACT, 1955 

( 26 of 1958 ) 


AN 


8s 


at 


ACT 
further to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure . 1898 . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixth Year of the Republic of Inilia follows : 

1. SHIORT TITLE AND COMMENCEMENT, -- ( 1) This Act may be called the Code of Criminal 
Procedure (Amendment) Act , 1955 . 

( 8 ) It shall come into force va such date or dates as the Central Government may , by 
notification in the Official Gazette , appoint, and different dates may be appointed for different 
States and for difforent provisions of this Act . 

2. AMENDMENT OF REOTION 4 , ACT V Or 1898 ,-In section 4 of the Code of Criminal 
Procedure, 1898 (hereinafter referred 10 as the principal Act ), in clause (w ) of sub-section (1), 
for the words " transportation or imprisonment for a teriu exceeding six months” , the words 
" imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year shall be substituted . 

3. AMENDMENT OF BECTION 9 , Acil Vor 1898. - For sub -rection (2 ) of section 9 of the pria 
cipal Act, the following sub -section shall be substituted , namely : 

" (2 ) The State Government may , by general or special order in the Official Gazetto , 
direct at what place or pluces the Court of Session shall ordinarily hold its sitting ; 
but if, in any particular carc , the Court of Session is of vpinion that it will tend 
to the general convenience of the parties and witnesses to hold its fitting & ny 
other place in the sessiuns divisivu , it may , with thu consent of the prosecution and 
the accused , sit at that placo for the disposal of the case or the examination of any 

witness or witnesses therein " . 
4 . AMENDMENT OF RECTION 14 , V or 1898 , - In sub -section ( 1) of section 14 of the 
principal Act, after the words " any person " , the werde " who holds or has held 

has held any judicial 
post under the Union or a State or possesses such other qualifications as may , in consultation 
with the High Court, be specified in this behalf by the State Government hy notification in 
the Offioial Gazette " shall be inserted . 

5. AMENDMENT or SKOTION 29B , ACT V op 1898 .-- In section 29B of the principal Act, for 
the word " transportation " , the word " imprisonment ” shall be substitutej . 
6. SUBSTITUTION OF NEW 

FOR SECTION 30 IN ACT V Or 1898 — For section 80 of the 
principal Act, tbe following section shall be substituted , namely : 

“ 30. Offences punishable with inprisonment not exceeding seven years . - Notwithstanding 
anything containel in section 28 or station 29 , the State Government inay , ia 
sultation with the High Court , invent any District Magistrate , Presidency Magistrate 
or Magistrate of the first class with power to try as # Magistrate all offences not 
punishable with death or with imprisonment for life or with imprisonnent for a torm 
exceoding seven years : 

Provided that no District Magistrate , Presidency Magistrate or Magistrate of the 
first class shall be inverted with such powers unless ho bar, for not less than ten years, 

exercised 88 . Magistrate powers not inferior to those of a Magistrate of the first class ." 
7. AXENDYNNT OP HEOTION 31 , ACT V OP 1898. - In sub -section ( 3 ) of section 31 of tho 
principal Act, for the words “ of transportation for a term exceeding seven years or of impri 
sonment for a term exceeding seven years " , the words " of imprisonment for life or of impri 
gonmont for • term exceeding ten years " shall be substituted . 


ACT 


0 


EKCION 


COD . 


4 - 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1955 . 


AMI VIVEXT 


12 . 


„ f the 

section 32 
8. ANI.VIMENT OF SECTION 32. ACT V or 1894 - In sub -section (1 ) of 
principal Act , 
(i) in clause (a ) . for the words " no 

for the words " , thonanil" , the words to thousan.1 " shall be 
subftituted ; 

be 
( ii ) in clause ( b ), for the woul " two hundred ” , the words " live hundre ? " chall 
substituted ; 

(iii ) in clause (c ), for the worlds " fifty ” , the worldi " one hundred" shall bou substituted . 
9 . SECTION 34 , ACT V or 1898 - In soction 37 of the principal Art , for the 

life " 
worrls " transportation for a terin exceeding seven years " , the words " imprisonment for 
shall be pubftituted . 

10 . I MENDAST ON SICTIOA 3 :7, ACT V Or 1898. - In robocion ( 1) of smjon 3.5 of the 
principal Act , the words " ur transportation shall be omitted . 

11. MYNDMENT SECTION 10 , ACT V Or 18 :18. - In sub -section ( 1 ) of sectinn 4.3 of the 
principal Act , after the worrils " management of that lan !” , the words and brackets “ and cvory 
member of a village panchayat, other than a judicial panchayat ( where such panchayat , by 
whatever name called , is constituted under any jaw for the time being in force)" shall be inserted . 

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 40 , Acs V come 1898. - In sub - section 1:3 ) of section 46 of tho 
principal Act , for the word " transportation ” , the word “ imprisonmen !" shall be substituted . 

13 . AMENDMENT OF SECTION 47 , ACT V or 1898. - In section 47 of the principal Act, for 
tho words “ the poreon rosiding " , the words " any purson resiiling " shall be substituted . 

14 . AMENDMENT OF SECTION 90 , ACT V OP 1898 , -- In section : 0) of the principal Act, the 
words : Sor assessor " shall bu omitted . 

15. AMENDMENT OF SECTION 109 , Aut V or 1898. - In sub - suction (3 ) aod sub-section ( 4 ) 
of section 108 of the principal Act , the words “ at his request" shall be omitted . 

16. AMENDMENT or SECTION 107 , Aur V or 18:98 , -- Fur sub -section (2 ) of noction 107 of the 
principal Act, the following sub - section shall be kulstituted , namely : 

" ( 2 ) Proceedings under this section may be taken before any Magistrate empowered to 
proceed under sub -suction (1) when either the place where the broach of the peace or dis 
turbanco is apprehonded is within the local limits of such Magistrate s jurisdiction or there 
is within such limits * person who is likely to commit a breach of the peace or disturb 
the public tranquillity or do any wrongful act as aforesaid beyond such limite. " 

17. AMENDMENT or SECTION 117 , ACT Vor 1898.- For sub -section ( 2) of soctivu 117 of the 
principal Act, the following sub -saction sball be inserted , namely : 

• (2 ) Such inquiry shall be made , 26 nearly as may be practicable , in the 
hereinafter prescribed for conducting trials and recording evidenco in summons cases ." 
18. A MENDMENT OF SECTION 141 , Aur ļos 1898. - In section 145 of the principal Act, 

(a ) to sub - sectiou ( 1) , the words " and further requiring them to put in such documents , 
or to adduce , by putting in altidavits , the evidence of such persons, as they rely upon in 
+ lipport of such claims" shall be added ; 
( 6 ) for sub - section (4 ), the following sub -section Khall be substituted , namely : 

" ( 4 ) The Magistrate shall then , without roference to the merits or the claims of 
any of such parties to a rigbt to possess the subject of dispute , peruse the statements , 
documents and affidavits , if any, yo put in , hear the parties and conclude the inquiry , 

far As may be practicable , within & poriod of two moolbs from the date of the 
appearance of the parties beforo him and , if possible , decide the question whether any 
and which of the parties was at the date of the order hefore inentioned in such poste 
asion of the said subject : 

Provided that the Magistrate may, if he so thinks fil , suonnon and examine any 
person whose affidavit has been put in as to the facts contained theroin : 

Provided further that, if it appears to the Magistrate that any party has within 
two months next before the date of such order been forcibly and wrongfully dispossessed , 
he may treat the party so dispossessed us if he had been in possession at such date : 


to 


mador 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1955 . 


ei 


10 


on 


. 


Provided also that , if the Magistruto considers the cage one of winergency , he way 
gt any time attach the subject of dispute, pouding his decision murder this soction ." ; 
( c) in sulr- section ( li), for the words “ first provioo " wherever they occur , the words " second 

proviso ” sheil be rubstituteu , 
19 . AMENDMENT OF WIICTION 1-41, ACT V or 1898. - In section 1 1:6 of the principal Act, for 
sub- woction ( 1 ), the following sub - sections shall be substituted , namely : 

" (1 ) If the Magistrate in of opinion that wone of the parties was then in such posne 
rrion , or is unablu tu decide an to which of them was then in such possimasjon , up the subject 
of dispute , he may attacin it , and draw in a statemenu of the l acts of the case and forward 
the record of the proceedling in a civil Court of competent jurisition to decide the question 
whetlucor any and whes of the parties wils Il pron -Oshion of the subjo : t of dispute at the 
date of the order its explained in sub-section ( 1 ) vi section 145 ; ielnd he shall direct the 
Parties to appear before the Civil Court on a date to be fixed by him : 

Provided that tho Dixirict Magistrato or the Magistrate who has attached the subject 
of dispute may withdraw the attachinont at any time, if he is satisfied that there is 
longer any likelihood of a broach of the peace in regard to the subject of dispule . 
(10 ) On receipt of any such referonce , the Civil Court shall 

peruse the evidence 
record and take much further evidence as may be produced by the parties respoctively , coid 
vider the effect of all much evidence , and after hearing the parties , decido the question of 
possession so referred to it . 

( 13 ) Tho Civil Court, shall us far as may be praticallo , within a period of three months 
from the date of the appearance of the parties before it , conclude the inquiry and transmit 
its finding together with thu l ecord of the proceeding to the Magistrate by whom the referenco 
was made ; and the Magistrate shall, on receipt thereof , proceed to dispose of the proceeding 
under section 145 in conformity with the decision of the Civil Court , 
( 1C ) The costs , if anys 

consequent on a reference for the decision of the Civil Court , 
shall be costs in the proceedings under this section . 

(ID ) No appoal sball lie from any finding of the Civil Court givon on & roference 
under this section nor shall any review or revision of any such finding be allowed . 

( 1E ) An order under this section shall be subject to any subsequent decision of a Court 
of competent jurisdiction . " 
20. AMENDMENT OF SECTION 117 , Act V OF 1895.- In section 1.1.7 of the principal Act, 

( a ) in sub - section ( 1 ) , for the words and figures " in the mannor provided in section 
145 , and the provisions of that section shall, as far as may be, be applicable in the caso 
of such inquiry " , the words " in the manner hereinafter provided ” shall be substituted ; 
(b ) after sub-section ( 1), the following sub -rection shall be insertoil , nainely 

“ ( 1A ) The Magistrate shall tben peruse the wlalıments so put in , hear the partier , 
receive all such evidence as may be produced by them respectively , consider the offect 
of such evidence , take such further evidence , if any, as he thinks necessary and , if 
possible , decide whether such right exists and the provisions of section 1 bij shall, as far 

A8 may bc , be applicable in the case of such inquiry . " 
21. AMENDMENT OF SECTION 160 , Act V or 1898 .-- Tosuctiou 160 of the priocipal Act, the 
following proviso shall be added , namely : 

" Provided that no malu pergou under the age of fifteen years or woman sliall be required 
to attend at any place other than the place in wbich such male person or wornan resides ." 

SUBSTITI TION OF NEW SECTION FOR SECTION 162 x Air V or 18 :18.- For section 102 
of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted , namely : 

" 162. Statements to police not to be signed ; use of stutements in pesidence .- ( 1 ) No stato 
ment made by any person to & police 

& police officer in the course of an investigation under this 
Chapter shall, if reduced into writing , be signed by the person making it ; uur phall 

any 
soch statement or any record lbereuf, whether in i policó: diary or otherwise, or any part 
of such statement or l equrd , be used for any purpose ( save as hereinafter provided ) at any 
inquiry or trial in respect of any offence under investigatiou at the time when such state 
ment was made : 


22 . 


t 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1966 . 


to 


Provided that when any witnem is oalled for the prosecution in such inquiry or 

trial 
whose statement has been reloved into writing as aforesaid , any part of his statement, if 
duly provod , may be used by the accused , and with the perniission of the Court, by the 
prosecution , to contradict such witners in the manner provided by section 145 of tho Indian 
Evidence Act, 1872 ( 1 of 1872 ), and when any part of such statement is so ured , 
part thereof may also be used in the re -examination of such witness , but for the purpose - 
only of explaining any mattor referred to in his cross -examination , 

( 2 ) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to any statement falling within 
the provisions of freion 32 , clause (1 ) of the Indian Evidevce Act, 1872 ( 1 of 1872 ) , or to 
affect the provisions of section 27 of that Act. " 

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 173, Act V or 1898 – In section 173 of the principal Act , for 
sub.nection ( 1) , the following sub -sections shall be substituted , namely 

**( 4 ) After forwarding a report under this section , the officer in charge of the police 
station shall, before the commencement of the inquiry or trial, furnish or cause to be fur 
nished the accused , free of cost , & copy 

of the report forwarded under sub - section 
( 1 ) and of the first information report recorded under section 15t and of all oth documents 
or relevant extracts thereuf , on which the prosecution proposes to rely ; including the state 
monts and confessions, if any , 

recorded under section 104 and the statements recorded 
under sub - section (3 ) of sectiou 161 of all the persons whom the prosecution proposer to 
examine as its witnesses . 

(5 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -section (4 ), if the police officer in of opinion 
that any part of any statenient recorded under ub - suction ( 3 : of section 161 is not relevant 
to the subject matter of ihu inquiry or tria ) or that its disclosure to the accused is not 
essential in the interests of justice and is inexpedient in the public interests he shall exclude 
such part from the copy of the statement furnished to the accused and in such a case , he shall 
make a report to the Magistrate stating his reasons for excluding such part : 

Provided that at the commencement of the inquiry or trial, the Magistrate sball , after 
perusing the part wo excluded and considering the report of the police officer, pass such 
orders as he thinks fit and if he so directs , a copy of part to excluded or such portion 
thereof, as he thinks proper , sha l be furnished to the acoused .” 

24. AMENDMENT OF SECTION 196A , ACT V Or 1898. - In clause (2 ) of section 196A of the prin . 
cipal Act , for the word “ transportation ” , the words “ imprisonment of life " shall be substituted . 

25 . INFEKTION OF SECTION 198B IN ACT V or 1898 --Aftor section 1984 of the principal 
Act , the following section shall be inserted , namely : 

" ] 98B . Prosecution for defamation against public servants in respect of their conduct in the discharge 
of public functions : --( 1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Coile , whon any ot 

offenoe 
falling under Chapter XXI of the Indiau Penal Code (Act XLV of 1860 ) ( other than the 
offence of defamation hy spoken words) is alleged to have been committed against the Presi . 
dent, or the Vice - Prosident, or the Governor or Rajpramukh of a State , or a Ministor, or any 
other public servant employed in connection with the affairs of the Union or of a Stato , in respect 
of his conduct in the discharge of his public functions, a Court of Session may take cognizance 
of furb offence , without the accused being coinmitted to it for trial, upon a complaint in 
wrising made by the Public Prosecutor , 

(2) Every such complaint shall set forth the facts which constitute tho offence alleged , 
the nature of much offence and such other particulars as are reasonably sufficient to give 
notice to the accused of the offence alleged to have been committed by him , 

(3 ) No complaint under sub- rection !1 ) shall be made by the Public Prosecutor except 
with the previons fauction , 

(a) in the case of the President or the Vice - President or the Governor or Rajpramukh 
of a State , of any Secretary to the Government authorised by bim in this behalf ; 
( b) in the case of a Minister of the Central Government or of a State Government, of the 
Secretary to the Council of Ministers, if any , or of any Secretary to the Government authorised 
in this behalf by the Government concerned ; 
(c) in the case of any other public servant employed in connection with the affaire of 
the Union or of a State , of the Goveromont Copoerned , 


NEW 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 31 , 


1965 . 


7 


( 4 ) No Court of Session shall take cognizance of an offence under sub -section (1 ), unless 
the complaint is made within six months from the date on which the offence is alleged to 
bave been committeil . 

( 5 ) When the Court of Session take : cognizancu of an offence ander kub -section ( 1 ), then , 
notwithstanding anything contained in this Code , the Court of Session shall try the case 
without a jury and in trying the waze , shall follow this procedurr prescribed for the trial by 
Magistrales of warrant cares iustituted otherwise than on a police report and the person against 
whom tle ollence is alleged to have been committeishull, uuless the Court of Session , for 
reasons to be I ll corded utlerwise directs , les exainiord as a witness for the prosecution . 

(0 ) If in any case instituted un ier this section , the Court of Session lig which the caso 
is hearil discharges or acquits all or any of the arcused , and is of opinion that the accusation 
against them or any of them was falsc and either frivolous or vexatious , the Court of Session 
may , loy its order of discharge (or quittal , direct the person against whom the ofľence war 
alleged to have been committee (other than the President, Vice - President or the Governor 
Rajpramukh of a State ) to thow caure why he shoulıl not pay compensation to fuch accused 
or to ouch or any of such accused , when there are more than one . 

(7 ) The Court of Sersion shall record and consider any canse which may be shown by 
the person so directed and if it is satisfied that the accuration was false and either frivolous 
or vexatious , it may , for reasons to be recorded , direct that compensation to such amount, 
not, exceeding one thousanı rupees , as it may setermine, be paid by such person to the accused 
or to each or any of them . 

( ) All compensation awarded under sub -section (7 ) niny be recovered as if it were fine , 

(:) No perron who has been directed to pay compensation under rub -section (7 ) shall, 
by reason of such order, be exempted from any civil or criminal liability in respect of the 
complaint made under this sections : 

Provided that any amount paid to an acilmel perron uuder this section shall be taken 
into account in awarding compensation to such person in any subsequent civil suit relating 
to the same matter , 

(10 ) The person who has been orilered under sub -section (7 ) to pay compensation may appeal 
from the order , in fo far as 

fo far as the order relates to the payment of the compensation , as if he 
had been convicted in a trial held by the Court of Sension . 

( 11) When an order for payment of compensation to an accused person is made in a cune 
which is subject to appeal under sub - section (10 ), the compensation shall not be paid to him 
before the period allowed for the presentation of the appeal has capred , or , if au appeal is 
presented , before the appeal has been decidei . 

( 12 ) For the purposes of this section , the expregion " Court of Session " includes tho 
lligh Courts at Calcutta and Madras in the exercise of their original criminal jurisdiction , 

( 1:3) The provisions of this section shall be in addition to , and not in derogution of, 
those of section 1998 , 
AMENDMENT OF SECTION 200 , ACT V Of 

OF 1898 , -In section 200 of the principal Aci, for 
the words examine 

the complainant upon path , and the substance of the examination shall be 
reduced to writing and shall be signed by the complainant" , the woul: " xainine the complainant, 
and the witnesses present , if any, upon onth and the substance of the examination shall be 
reduced to writing and shall be sizned by the romplainant and the witnesser " shall be fub 
stituted , 

27. AMENDMENT or SECTION 203, Act 1 of 1896.- In section 203 of the principal Act, after 
thr wurds " uf the complainant" , the words " an.l the witnesses " shall be inserted . 

28. AMENDMENT OF SECTION 204 , Act V or 1898.- 10 section 204 of the principal Act , after 
sub -section ( 1 ), the followinna sub -sections shall be inserted , namely : -- 

" ( TA ) No summons warrant shall be issued against the accused under sub-section 
( 1 ) until a list of the prosecution witnesses has been file . 

(1B ) In a proceeding instituted upon a complaint made in writing , every summons or 
warrant issued uuder sub - section (1) shall be accompanied by a copy of such complaint." . 

SUBSTITUTION OF NEW SECTIONS FOR SECTION 207 IN AOT V OF 1898 .-- For section 207 
of the principal Act , the following sections shall be substituted , namely : 


20 . 


( r 


29 . 


8 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1935. 


Or 


3 


ruSON 


one 


or 


nore 


207. Procedure in inquiries preparatory to commitment -In every inquiry before a Magistrate 
where the care is triable exclusively lyn Court of Session 

in the 

High Court , or , 
opinion of the Magistrate , ought to be tried by 491 Court, th , Magistrate shall , 

(a ) in any procoeding instituted on il police riport, follow the procedure « procitieil in 
section 207 A and 

( 6) in : ry other propeeling , fullow thi pur poclure spucitized in the other provisions of thin 
Chapter . 

207A . Procriturr to be adopleil 1.1 procedir instituired oil police reporl .--( 1) When , in any 
proceeding in -titutod on a police report , the Magistration receives thiri l opport forwarded under 
kertiv:n 17. , he shall , for the purpose of holding an inquiry under this section , fis i datu 
which should be late 110t later than fourteon jars from the date of the receipt of the report, 
unless the Magint.linte", fior 

to be rrcorrod fixes 

н1 ) later date 

the 
( 2 ) If, at any time before such date , the officer conducting the prosecution applies to 
Magistrate to issue a process to compel the attendance of any witness the poroduction of 
any document or thing , the Magistrat" shall issue such 

jirocess unless , 

for reasons to be 
recorded , he come it. unnecessary to so fü , 

( 8 ) It the commencement of the inquiry , the Magistrate shall , when the accused 3Ppears 
or is brought before him , satisfy himself that the vocuments referred to in section 173 have 
been furnished to the accura1 anil if he finds that the accueil has not been furnished with 
buch documents or any of thron , he shall (ause the same to ho 80 furnished . 

( 4 ) The Magistrate shall then proceed to take the evidence of such plessons , if any , an inay 
be produced by the prosecution as witnesses to the actual commission of the offence allogeri ; 
2011 if the Magistrnte is of opinion that it is necessary in the interests of justice to take 
the evidence of any of the other witnessi s for the prosecution , he 

may 

take 
such evidence alko). 

( 5 ) The Alcurcil shall be at liberty to cross -examine the witnesses examiner! under fub 
section (4 ), and in such case , the prosecutor may re- examine them , 
( 6 ) When the evidence referred to in sub-section ( 1 ) has been taken 

and the Magistrate 
has considrred all the documents roſorred to in section 173 and har , if nocessary , examined 
the accused for the purpose of enabling him to 

explain 

any circumstances appearing in the 
evidence against hin und giver prosecution and the accuseil an opportunity of being hearid , 
such Magistrate shall , if he is of wpinion that much evidence and documents discloso no grounds 
for cuminitting the accused person for trial, record his reasons a nu discharge him , wlers it 
appears to the Magistrate that such person should be tried before himself 

some other Magir 
trate , in which case he shall proceed accordingly . 

(7 ) Wheu , upon such evidence being taken , such documents being considered , such exami 
nation (if any ) being made and tho prosecution und the accused being given an opportunity 
of hoing hearl, the Magistrate in of opinion that the accused should be roin initted for trial, 
ho shall frame a charge under his hand , declaring with what offence the accused is charged , 

( 8 ) As soon as such charge has been trainel, it shall be read and explained to the accused 
and a copy thereof shall be given to him free of cost , 

(9 ) Tho uccured shall be required at onro to give in , orally or in writing , a list of the 
persons, if any, whom he wishes to be su inmoued to give evidence on his trial. 

Provided that the Magistrate may , in his discretion , allow the accused to give in his list 
or any further list of witnesses at a subsequent tiine ; and , where the acousod is committed for 
trial before the High Court , nothing in this sub - section shall be deemed to preclude the accused 
from giving , at any time before his trial , tu the Clerk of the State a further list of tbe 

he wishes to be fum monod to give evidence un ruch trial. 
(10 ) When the accused , on being required to give in a list under sub - section ( ), has 
declined to do so , or when he has given in such list , tbc Magistrate may mako order 
committing the accused for trial by the High Court 

the Court of Session , as the case 
may be, and shall also record briefly the reasons for such commitment , 
( 11 ) When the accused has given in 

any list of 

witnesses ander Hub -section ( 9 ) and bas 
been committed for trial, the Magistrate shall 

the witnesses included in the list to 
appear before the Court to which the accused has been committed : 


Pll the 


persons whom 


80 


or 


Bummon 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1955 . 


executes 


Provided that where the accused has been committed to the lligh Cosuri, the Magistrate may , 
in his discretion luare such witne- ses to be sumipoved by the Clerk of the State and such witnesses 
may be fuin moned accordingly : 

Provided also that if the Magistrate thinks that any witness is included in the list for the 
purpose of vexation or delay or of disealing the ends of justice , the Magistrale may requira 
the accused to mitisfy him till there are reasonable grounds for believing that the evidence 
of such witness is material, and if he is not so raljrliei, may refuse to summon the witness 
( recording his reasons for such relus: ul ), may before . Fimminoning him moquina such sum to 
be depunited as suci Magis !iner thinks 1.209 1y to defray the spoentoe of obtaining the atten 
dance of the witcois :2001 | ohler proper potereos . 

( 12 ) Witnesses for the purcisecution , wiose attendance before the Court of Session or figh 
Cuurt in der possibly and who appear bortre 1 . Maistrai , shall Marcute b fore him bonds biu 
ding themselves 10 be in attendance Wien called upon in the Court of Sersion or High Court. 
tu give evidence . 

(13) If any witness refuses to attend before the Court of Session or lligh Court, or exe 
cute the bund above directed , the Maritrate may detain himn il cusw.vly until he 
purch budil or until his attendance it the Court o : Sussion or lligh Court is required when the 
Mngistrate shall seni hian in custody to the Court of Session or High Court as the case may be . 

(11) When the accused is commit ! ed for trial, the Magistrate shall issue an order to much 
person 16 may be appointed by the State Government in this behalf , notifying the commit 
incnt, and stating the offence in the sejne form 214 

the charge ; 

ani shall send the charge , 
the record of the inquiry and any weapon or other thing which is to be produced in evidence , 
to the Court of Sersion or where the commitment is made to the High Court , to the Clerk 
of the State or other officer appointed in this behalf loy the High Court. 

( 1:3 ) When the commitment is made to the High Court and any part of the record 
is not in English , an English translation of such part shall be forwarded with the record . 

(16 ) l ntil and during the trial, the Magistrate shall, subject to the provisions of this 
Code regarding the taking of bail, commit the rorused by würrant to en - tody . 

ANDMENT ON SECTION 208 , ACT V or 1898.-- In sub-sertion ( 1) of section 208 of the 
principal Act , for the words " Thar Magistrate shall " , the worl: " In any proceeding instituted 
otherwise than on A police report , the Magistrate shall " shall be substituted , 

31. AVENDMENT ON SUCTION 227 , AOT V OF 1898. - In sub -section ( 1) of section 2.27 of the 
principal Act , 

(in after the worla " in the ease of trials " , the words " hy jury shall be inserted ; 

( ii ) the words or the opinions of the artiessors ar mxpressed " shall be omitted . 
32 AMENDMENT OP SECTIOS 247 , ACT V or 1898. - In section 247 of the priocipal Act , for 
the proviso, the following proviso shall be rulistituted , namely 

“ Providod that where the Magistrate is of opinion that the prorsonal attenlance of the 
omplainant is not necessary, thu Magistrate may dispense with his attendance , and proceed 
with the case . " 

33 . AMEXIMENT OF SECTION 250 , Jon V or 18 :18 ,- - In sub - section (2 ) of section 200 of the 
principal Act, for the worils " one humed rupees or, if the Magistrate is a Magistrate of the 
third class . not exceeding fifty rupees" , the words " one -half of the amount of fine he is empowered 
to impose" shall be nulstituted . 
34. S ! ISTITITION 

SECTION 251 IN ACT 1 or 1899.- För section 251 
of the principal Act , the following sections shall be substituted , Da 

pamely : 
" 231. Procedure in warrant cases - In the trial of warrant cases by Magistrate , the 
Magistrate shall , - 

(a ) in any case instituted on a police report , follow the poruceilure specified in section 
251A ; and 
( 1 ) in any other care, follow the proceduro specified in the other provisions of this Chapter . 

251 A , Procedure to be adopted in cases instituted on police report . - 1) When , in any care 
instituted on a police report , the accused appears or is brought before a Magistrate at 
the commencemont of the trial, Ruch Magistrate shall fatisfy himself that the documents 
referred to in section 173 have been furnished the accused , and if he finds that the 
accused has not been furnished with such documents or any of them , he shall cause them 
to be so furnished . 


einn 


OF 


NEW SECTIONS 


FON: 


10 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30, 1955 . 


i 


( 2) If , upon consideration of all the documents referred to in section 173 and making, 
such examination , if any, of the ac :used as the Magistrate thinks vecessary and after giving 
the 

prosecution and the accused an opportunity of being heard , the Magistrato considers 
the charge against the accured to be groundless , he shall discharge hiin . 

if 
( 3) If, upon ruch ducunents being considered , such examination , 

any , being made 
and the prosecution gud the accusel being viven an opportunity of being heard , thu Magis 
trate is of opinion that there in ground for prenuming that the accused has committed 
an offerne triabile unit this Chapter , which ruch Magistrate in competent to try , and 
which , in his opinion , evuld be adequately punished by him , he shall frame in writing 
a charge againat the accuinell . 

( 1) The charre shail llon be read and explained to the accused and he shall be 
uske whether lace is guilty or claims to be tried . 

( 5) If the accused pleads guilty , the Magistrnte shall record the plea and 
bis discretion , convict him thereon . 

(6 ) If the accused refuses to plemel , or does not pleal, or claims to be tried , the 
Magistrate shall fix a dato for the examination of witnesses , 

( 7) On the date so fixed , the Magistrate shall proceed to take all such evidence as 
may be produced in support of the prosecution : 

Provided that the Magistrate may permit the cross -examination of any witness to be 
deferred until any other witness or witnesses have been examined , or recall any witness 
fur further crogk - examination . 

(8 ) The accused shall then be called upon to enter upon his defence and produce 
his evidence and if the accused puts in any 

written statement, the Magistrate shall 
filo with the recoril , 

(9 ) If the accured after he has entered upon his defence, applies to the Magistrate 
to issue any process for compelling the attendanoc of 

the attendance of any witness for the purpose of 
examination or cross - examination , or the production of any document or other thing , 
the Magistrate shall issue such process unless he considers that much application should 
be refused on the ground that it is made for the purpose of vexation or delay or for 
defeating the ends of justice. Such ground shall be recorded by him in writing : 

Provided that , when the accused has cross-examined or had the opportunity of cruss 
examining any witness after the charge is framed , the attendance of such witness shall 
not be compelled under this section , unless the Magistrate is satisfied that it is neces . 
sary for the purposes of justice , 

(10 ) The Magistrate may, before summoning any witness ou such application under 
Rub -section (9 ), require that his reasonable « xp nsex incurred in attending for the 

puurpose 
of the trial be doposited in court. 
( 11) If , in any care 

care urder this section in which a charge has been framed , the 
Magistrate finds the accused not guilty, he shall record an order of acquittal, 

(12 ) Where in any case umuer this section , the Magistrate dues not proceed in 
accordance with the provisions of section 31: ( r section 562 , he shall, if he finds the 
accused guilty , pans sentence upon according to law . 

(13) In a case where a previous conviction is charged under the provisions of section 
221 , sul section ( 7 ), and the accused does not admit that he has been previously 
convicted us allegeil in the charge, the Magistrate may , after he has convicted the said 
accused under sub -section ( 5) or sub- sectiuu (12), take evidencu in respect of the alleged 

previous conviction , and shall record a finiling therron ." 
85 . AMENDMENT OF SECTION 252, ACT V OK 1898 , -ın sub - section (1 ) of section 252 of the 
principal Act, for the words " When the accured appears ”, the words " In any care instituted 
otherwise than on a police report , when the accused appeara " shall be substituted . 

36. AMENIMENT OF SECTION 260 , ACT V on 1898. - In sub -section ( 1 ) of section 200 of the 
principal doct, - 

( s ) for the word “ transportation " , the words “ imprisonment for life " shall be subs 
tituted ; 

( b) for the words " fifty rupees ” wherever they ocour, the words " two hundrea rupees !” 
shall be substituted . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1955 . 


IL 


POR 


NEW 


SECTION 


FOR 


NEW 


SECTION 


37. SUBSTITUTION OF NEW SECTION SECTION 26+ IN AOT V OF 1898.- For section 264 
of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted , namely : 

“ 264 , Record in appealable case8 . - In every ( apo tried summarily by a Magistrato 
or Bench in which au uppeal lies, such Magistrate or Bench shall record the substance 
of the evidence and also the particulars mentioned in section 203 and shall , before 

passing any sentence , recoril a judgment in the case ." 
38. SUBSTITUTION or 

SECTION 203 IN ACT VOF 1895 :-For section 268 
of the principal Act, the following sectiin shall be substituted , namely : 
“ 208. Trials be fure Court of Session --All trials before a 

Court of Session shall 
be either liy jury or liy the Judge hipiself ." 
39 , A MENDMENT OF SECTION 269 , ACT V ( f 1898. - Infection 269 of the principal Act, 

( a ) in Hub- rection (3 ), for the word " by the Court of Session , with the aid of 
jurors as esfensors ” , the words “ by the Judge himself” shall be substituled ; 

( b ) aftor sub -section ( 3 ), the following sub -section shall be inserted , ramely : 

" ( 1 ) When , in respect of a trial in which the accused in charged with an offence 
triable by jury , it appears to the High Court, un an application made to it or othor 
wise, that having regard to the volume or complexity of the evidenre in the case , the 
trial is not likely to be concluded within two weeks from its commencement, or that 
the case would involve consideration of evidence of a highly technical nature , which 
renders it unlesirable that it should be tried by a jury, the High Court way , notwith 
standing anything contained in any order made under sub -section ( 1 ) , by order , direct 
that that case shall be tried by the Judge himself without a jury and the Juilge shall 

proceed to try the cafe arcorilingly ." 
40. SUBSTITUTION OF 

FOR SECTION 272 IN АСТ yor 1898. - For section 272 
of the principal Act, the followiug section shall be substituted , namely : 

" 272. Refusal to plead vg claim to be tried . --Il thu accured refuses to , or does not , 
plead , or if he cluims to be tried , the Court shall , in a care triable by jury, proceed 
to choose jurors as hereinafter directed and to try the case , but in any other 

case , 
the Judge shall proceed to try the case himself : 

Provided that , in camps triable by jury , the same jury may , subject to the right 
of objiction hereinafter nientioned , try as many accused persons successively as the Court 
thinks fit .” 

AMENIMENT - ECTION 274 , Act V or 18 :18. - In Sub -section ( 2 ) of section 27+ of the 
principal Act, 

( i) for the word " five ” , the word " seven ” shall be substituted ; 
( ii ) 

in the proviso, for the words " shall consist of not less than seven persons and , 
if practicable , of nine persous" , the words " shall consist , if practicable , of nine persons " 

shall be substituted . 
42. SUBFTITITION OF NEW 

FOR SECTION 282 IN ACTV Of 1898 ,-For section 282 
of the principal Act, the following rection sball be substituted , namely : 

“ 282. Procedure when juror ceases to attend , etc .- (1 ) If, in the course of a trial by 
jury at any time before the return of the verdict -- 

( a ) any jurur, from any sufficient cause, is prevented from attending the trial 
on any day , or 

(6 ) if any juror absents himself and it is not practicable to enforce his atten 
dence , or 

( c) if it appears that any juror is unablo to understand the language in which 
the evidence is given or , when such evilence is interpreted , the language in which 

it is interpreted , 
the Court , in any case falling under clauso ( a ) , inay either adjourn the trial or dis 
charge the juror and in any case falling under clause (6 ) or clause (c), shall discharge 
the juror ; and in any case whore any juror is so discharged , the jury shall be deemed 
to be reconstituteil with the remaining jurors as if the jury had consisted of such persons 
only from the commencement of the trial and the trial shall proceed bcfore the jury 


41. 


OF 


RECTION 


. 


I2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 


30 , 1966. 


af CHFOI S 


case , when 


OH 


( 3 ) of 


elsewhere in this Code, such 
80 recontitutou ; and notwithstanding anything contained 
trial shall not be invalid by reason onig of the fart that the number of persons OM- 
ginally constituting the jury has been reducel. 

( 2 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -section 11 ) , if , in the course of a 
trial loy jury , the number of purrons constituting the jury is so reduced that, 

( @ ) when the jury originally consisted of nine persons, it falls below seven , or 

( 1 ) When the jury originally consisted of given persons, it falls below live . 
the jury shall be discharged and a new jury chosen , and in rach of such cases , the trial 
shall comience anew . " 

43 . OMISSION OF SECTIONS 281 AND 285 IN ACT Om 1998 .-- Section 284 and section 285 of 
the principal Art shall be omitted . 

4.1 . AJENDMENT OF SECTION 281 , ACT I or 1898. - In section 286 of the principal Act , in 
kub-section ( 1), for the words " When the jurors 

have been chosen ," the words 
" In a casa triable: hy jury , when the jurors have been choseu or, in any other 
the Junge is ready to bear thu cuno " shall be subtitutes . 

:15 . A VENDMENT SECTION 287 , ACT 1 or 1895, - In section 287 of the principal Act, for 
the word " duly " , the words " if any ” shall be substituted . 

46. AMENDMENT Or SECTION 289, ACT 1 or 1898. - In sub -section (2 ) and sub - section 
section 289 of the principal Act , for the words " in a case tried with the aid of 868086088 " 
wherever they occur , the words " in a care tried by the Judge himself " shall be substituted . 

47. AMENDMENT OF SECTION 291 , ACT V OF 98 , - In section 291 of the principal Act, after 
the words " in nocljons" , the figures and letter " 207A ” shall be inserted . 

48. AMENDMENT OF SECTION 293. ACTV or 1898.- In section 293 of the principal Act, the 
words " ur assessors " wherever tliey occur shall be omitted , 

49 . AM NDIENT OF SECTION 2 : 4 , Act v or 1898. - In section 294 of the principal Act , the 
words or assessor " shall be onnitted . 
50 . AMENDMENT OF SECTIOX 295 , A CT I OF 1898 

In section 295 of the principal Act , the 
words " or arsofnors " shall be omitted . 

51 . AMENDMENT OP DITION 297 , ACT OP 1898. - To section 297 of tho principal Act, the 
following words shall be avidlec , namely 

“ and the charge to the jury shall, whorever praticable , be taken down in shorthand 
in the language in which it is delivered und transcript thereof signed by the Judge 
shall form part of the record ” . 
52 , A M ENIDI ENT OF SECTION 301, 

of 1898 .- ] n gection 301 of the principal Act , after 
the words “ verilict of a majority " , the 

the words " or that the jurors are equally divided in 
opinion ” shall be inserted . 

AMENIMENT OF SECTION 302 , Act 1 OF 1898 .-- In section 302 of the principal Act , 
after the words although they are not unanimous " , the words " or the foreman may inform 
the Judge that the jurors are still wually divided in opiniou ” shall be inserted , 

54 . AMENDMENT OF SECTION 307 , ACT 1 OF 1898. - In section 307 of the principal Act, after 
sub -sertion ( 1) , the following sub-section shall be inserted , namely : 

" (L. ;; If , in any such case , the jurors are equally divideil in opinion on all or any of 
the charges on whjeh any accused person has been tried , the Judge shall submit the cane 
in respect of such accused person to the High Court recording his opinion on such charge 
or charges and the grounds of his opinion , and in such case , if the accused is further charged 
under the provisions of section 310 , he shall proceed to try him on such charge as if the 
verdict of the jury liad been one of conviction ." 
55. SursTITI TION OF NEW 

AND N1W SECTION FOR ST: 13 - ITEAD I AND SECTION 309 
ACT V or 1898. - F or rnb -head H and section 309 of the principal Act, the following shall 
be fubstituted , namely : 

" H - Conclusion of trial in caso tried by the Judge himself . 
309. Judgment in cases tried by the Judge himself .- (1) When , in a case tried by the 
Judge himself, the case for the defence and the prosecutor s reply ( if any ) are concluded , 
the Judge shall give a judgment in the onse . 


ACT 


53 . 


SI - IEAD 


JN 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1955 . 


13 


NB EAD 


a 


AND 


SECTIONS 


“ or as 


be ” , 


( 2 ) If the accused is convicted , the Judge shall , unless he proceeda in accordance 
with the provisions of section 362 , pass suntence on hiun according to law ." 
56 . AMENDMENT ON SECTION 310 ACT V OP 1898. - In section 310 of the principal Act , 

(a ) for the words " or with the aid of assessors ," the worida “ or by the Judge himself ” 
shall be substituted . 
(1 ) for sulmclause (ii ; of clause (a ), the following sub -clause shall be substituted , namely : 
“ ( ii) in the case of a trial ly 8 

jury , the 

jury have delivered their verdict on 
the charge of the subsequent olence ; " 

(« ) in clause (b ), for the words " held with the aid of assessora," the words " held by 
the Judge lijmsell shall be substituted . 
57 . ΛΙΕΝΤνΜ ENT OF SECTION 31 ?, ACT V OF 1898. - In section 319 of the principal Act , 

( a ) the word " male " shall be omitted . 

( 19) the words for assessore " shall bo omitted . 
58 . AMENDMENT OF 

320 , 321, 324 , 320 , 327 , 328 , 329 , 330 , 
331, 332, and 33 : A , Act V of 1898 -- In sub -lead K und sections 320 , 321, 324 , 326 , 327 , 
328, 329 , 330 , 3:31, 332 and 339A , the words “ and assessors " " or aksespor ," " or Houkrors” , 
& 11 urtersor " , " os as u s * ( for , as the case may “ or assessor , as the case may 

be " 
and " and trials with the aid of assefrors " , wherever they occur , 

shall be omittel. 
5 :) . AMENDMENT OF SECTIOX 337 , ACT V or 1898. - In section 337 of the principal Act , 
( u ) in sub -section ( 1) , 
(i) for the words and figures " which may extend to ton years , or any 

any offer.co 
punishable under section 211 of the Indian Ponal Code with imprisonment which 
may extend to 

seven years " , the words " which may extend to seven years ” shall 
be substituted . 

( 11) after the words " the Indiar. Penal Cole , namely , scctions” , the figures and 
letter " 101, 103, 105A " sball be inserted ; 
(b ) aftur sub -section (2A ) , the following rub- section fhall be inserted , namely : 

“ (2B ) In overy case where the offence is punishable under sectiou 161 or section 
165 or section 107 A of the Indian Penal Code (Act XLV of 1860) or sub - section (2 ) 
of section 5 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 19 + 7 (Il of 1947), and whore a person 
has accepted a tender of pardon and has been examined under sub -section ( 2 ), then , 
notwithstanding anything contained in sub -section (2A ) , a Magistrate shall without making 
any further inquiry , send the case for trial to the Court of the Special Judge appointed 

under the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1952 ( XLVI of 1952), 
60 , AMENTMENT OF SECTION 342 , ACT V OF 1898.- 1u section 342 of the principal Act , for 
sub -section (4 ), the following sub -section shall be substituted , namoly : 

" ( 4 ) No outh shall be administerol tu the accused When he is examined under sub 
section ( 1) ” . 

61. INSERTION OF NEW SECTION 312A IN ACT V or 1898 .-- After section 312 of the principal Act, 
the following section shall be inserteil , namely 

“ 342 A. 1rensed person to be competent witness — Any person accused of an effence before 
u " riminal Court shall be a competent witness for the riefence and may give evidence on 
onth in dirproof of the charges made against him or any person charged together with him 


at the same trial : 


Provided that 

(a ) he shall not be called as a witness except on his own request in writing ; or 

( b ) his failure to give evilence shall not be made thu subject of any comment by 
any of the parties or the Court or give rise to any presumption against himself or 

any person charged together with him at the same trial.” 
82 , 

AMENDMENT OF ÞECTION 344 , Act V or 1898 - In soction 344 of the principal Act, 

(a ) Sub -section (1 ) shall be re -numberod as sub -gection (1A ) of that section and the 
following sub- section shall be inserted as sub -section ( 1) thereof, namely 
" ( 1 ) In every inquiry or trial, the proceedings shall be held 

as expeditiously 88 
possible and in particular, when the examination of witnesses has once begnn , the samo 


14 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1956 . 


ahall be continued from day to day until all the witnessms in attandence have been 
examined , unless the Court finds the adjornment of the saine beyond the following day 
to be necessary for reasons to be recorded " ; 

(b ) in fub - fiction (11 ) 48 80 re - nambered , after the proviso , the following further proviso 
shall be inserted , namely : 

“ Provided further that when witneares are in attenuance , no adjornment or postpone 
inent shall be granted , without examining them except for special reasons to be recorded 

in writing . " 
03 AMENDMENT OF SECTION 3.1.), ACT V or 1898. - In wrction 345 of the principal Act , for 
the table next following fub -section (2), the following table shall be substituteil, namely 


Offence 


Soction of the 

Indian Penal 
Code applicable 


Persons by whom 
offence may be 
compounded 


“ Voluntarily causing hurt hy vangerous weapons 


or means , 


321 


The person by whom 
hurt is caused 

Ditto . 
littu . 


* 


325 


335 


337 


Ditto . 


338 


Ditto . 


Voluntarily causing grieyous hurt 
Voluntarily cansing griovuus hurt on grave and sudden provocation . 
Cauring hurt by doing an act 90 rashly and negligently as to 

endanger human life or the personal safety of others . 
Causing griovous hurt by doing an act so rashly and negligently 

as to endanger human life: or the personal saſe w of others . 
Wrongfully confining a person for three days or inore . 
Wrongfully confining for 10 or more days 
Wrongfully confining a person in secret 
Assault criminul force in a attempting wrongfully to contine u 

person , 


343 


The person confined 

Ditto . 


* 


344 


346 


Ditto . 


357 


The person assaulted 

Or to whom tho 
force was 

used . 


379 


The owner 


of the 


property stolen . 


Theft , where the value of property stolen does not exceed two 

hundred and fifty rupees . 
Theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master , whore 

the value of the property stolen does not exceed two hundred 

and fifty rupees . 
Diphonest misappropriation of property 


38 ) 


litto , 


403 


Criminal breach of trust , where the value of the property does 

pot exceed two hundred and fifty rupees . 


406 


The owner of the 
property misappro 
priated . 
The owner 

of the 
proporty in respect 
of which the breach 
of trust has been 
committed . 


Criminal breach of trust by a carrier , wharfinger , etc., where the 

value of the property does not exceed two hundred and lifty rupees 


407 


The owner 

of the 
poroperty in respoct 
of which the breach 
of trust has boen 
committed . 

Ditto . 


408 


417 


The person chvate.l. 


418 


Ditto . 


* 


419 


Criminal breach of trust by a clerk or servant , where the value 

of property does not exceed two hundred and fity rupees. 
Cboating 
Cheating a person whosc interest the offender was bound , by 

law or by legal contract, to protect . 
Cheating by personation 
Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property or the 

making , alteration or dertruction of a valuable security , 
Fraudulent removal or concealment of property , ete ., to prevent 

distribulion among creditors , 
Fraudulently preventing from being made available for his credi 
tors a debt or domand due to the offendor , 


Ditto . 
Ditto . 


120 


421 


The creditors who 
are affected thereby . 

Ditto . 


422 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1955 . 


Offencc 


Seotions of the 

Indian Penal 
Code applicable 


Persons by whom 
offence may be 
compounded 


123 


4.24 


1:28 


129 


Fraudulent execution of deed of transfer containing false statu 
ment of consideratiou . 
Fraudulent removal or concealment of property . 
Mischief by killing or maiming animal of the value of ton 

rupees or upwards . 
Mixchief by killing or maiming cattle , 

cattle , etc., of any value or 
any other animal of the value of fifty rupees or upwards . 
Mischief by injury to work of irrigation by wrongfully diverting 
water when the only loss or damage caused is loss or damage 
to a private person . 
Houre-trespass to commit an offence (other than thoft ) punishable 
with imprisonment. 


430) 


The parson 

afTecto 
thereby . 

Ditto 
The Owner 

the 
animal. 
The owner of the 

cattle or animal. 
The person 

to whom 
the loss or damage 

is causerl. 
The person in posses 
sion 

of 

the house 
trespa ssed upon . 
The person 

to whom 
loss or injury is 

caused by such use . 
The person 

whose 
trade or property 
mark is counter 
foitod . 


451 


482 


Using a false trade or property mark . 


483 


Counterfeiting a trade or property mark used by another . 


-186 


Knowingly selling , or exposing or posnekring for sale or for trade 
or manufacturing purpose, goude murked with a counterfeit trade 
or property mark . 


The person 

whose 
tralle Or property 
mark is counter 
feited . 


49+ 


Marrying again during the lifu -time of a husband or wife . 


90 


509 


The husband or wife 

of the person 

marrying . 
The woman wbum it 

was intended to in . 
sult or whose privacy 
was intruded upon ." 


Vetering words or souuds or making gestures or exhibiting any 
object intending to infult the nodesty of a woman or intruding 
tipon the privacy of # 


woman , 


61. AMENDMENT OF SECTION 350 , Act V or 1898.- In sub - section ( 1 ) of sectiou 350 of the 
principal Act, for the words " or he may resummon the witnesses and re - commence the inquiry 
or trial" and the proviro , the following proviso shall be substituted , namely : 

" Provided that if the succeeding Magistrate is of opivion that further examination of 

of the witnesses whose evidence has already been recorded is necessary in the interests 
апу 
of justice , he may 

re -summon any such witness and after such further examination , cross 
exa inination , and re -examination , if any , as he may permit , the witness shall be discharged . " 
05. AMENDMENT OM sectiox 316 , Act V op 1898. - In Kection 356 of the principal Act , 
(a ) in sub -section ( 1 ) , - 

(i ) for the words " in the language of the Court by the Magistrate or Sessions Judge” , 
the words " in the language of the Court either by the Magistrate or Sessions Judge 
with his owu hand or from his dictation in open Court " shall be substituted ; 

(ii) for the words " shall be signed by the Magistrate or Sessions Judge ” , the words 
“ the evidence so taken down shall be signed by the Magistrate or Sessions Judge and 
shall furio part of the recoru ” shall be substituted ; 

(b ) in sub -section (2 ), #fter the words with his own hand , " the words “ or cause it to be 
taken down in writing in the language from his dictation in open Court" shall be inserted ; 

(c) in sub - sectiou (3 ), for the words “ In cases in which the evidence is not taken down 
in writing by the Magistrate or Sessions Judge ” , the words “ In cases in which the Magis 
trate or Sessions Judge does not either take down the evidence with his own hand or cause 
it to be taken down in writing from his dictation in open Court " shall be substituted . 

66 . A MENDMENT OR SECTION 307 , Acr V or 1898 .-- For sub -section (6 ) of section 367 of the 
principal Act , the following sub -section shall be substitated , namely 


16 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1965 . 


08 . 


; 


F001 


71 . 


“ (5 ) In trials by jury , the Court need not write a judgınent , but the Cuurt of Session 
shall record the heads of the charge to the jury : 

Provided that it shall not be necessary to record such heads of the charge in cases 
where the charge has been delivered in English and taken down in shorthand .” 

67. AMENDMENT OF SECTIOX 308 , ACT V or 1898. - Sub- section (2 ) of section 368 of the prin . 
cipal Act shall be omitted . 

AMEXDWENT OF SECTION 371 , Act V or 1898. - In section 371 of the principal Act, -- 

( n ) in sub -section (2 ), after the words " charge to the jury " , the words and figures " or , 
where a transcript of the charge forma part of the record under section 297, a copy of 
such trauscript " shall be inserier and 
(1 ) after suls-section ( 3 ) , the following puls - sertion shall be inserted , namely : 

" ( 4 ) When the accused is sentoncel to inprisonment , then , without prejudico to 
the provisions of sub -section ( 1 ) or rub- section ( 2 ), a copy of the finding and senience 
Khall , us 

US Inuy 

be after the delivery of the judgincnt , be given to tbe accused 
free of cost " . 
09 . AMENDMENT OF SECTION 375 , Act V or 1898. - In sub - section (2 ) of section 375 of the 
principal Act , the words " or assessors ” shall be omitted . 

70 . AMENDMENT OF SECTION 376 , ACT Vor 1898. - In section 376 of the principal Act, the 
words " whether tried with the aid of 866068ors or by jury ” shall be omitted . 

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 382 , ACT V Or 18.9 " In section 382 of the principal Act , for 
the word “ transportation ” , the word " imprisonment” shall be substituted . 

72 . ABENDMENT OF SECTION 383, Act V or 1898. — In section 383 of the principal Act , for 
the word “ transportation ” , the words " imprisonment for life ” shall be substituted . 

73. INSERTION OF NEW * BUCTION 387A IN Act VOF 1898.- After section 387 of the principal 
Act , the following section shall be inserted , namely : 

“ 387A . Warrant for levy of fine issued by ai Court in Jammu and Kashmir. - Notwithstanding 
anything contained in this Code or in any other law for the time being in force, when an 
offender las been sentenced to pay a fine by u Criminal Court in the State of Jammu and 
Kashmir and the Court passing the sentence issues a warrant to the Collector of a District 
in the territories to which this Code extends authorising him to realise the amount by execution 
according to civil process against the movable or immovable propety , or both , of the defaulter, 
such warrant shall be deemed to be a warrant issued under clause (b ) of sub-section (1 ) of 
section 350 loy Court in the territories to which this Code extends anil the provisions of 
sub - section ( 3 ) of the said section as to the execution of such warrant shall apply accordingly . " 

74 , AMENDMENT OF SECTION 393 , Act V or 1898.- In section 393 of the principal Act, in 
clause (1 ), for the word " transportation " , the words “ imprisonment for life” shall be substituted . 
75. AMENDMENT OF SECTION 3: 0 , ACT V F 1899. - In section 396 of the principal Act, 

(a ) in sub- section ( 1) , 

(i) after the worils " of death ” , the worils “ imprisonment for life " shall be inserted ; 

lii ) the words " or transportation ” shall lc omitted ; 
( 1 ) in sub-section ( %) , the words " or transportation , as the 

may 

be ” shall 
( mitted . 

( c ) in the Explanation , clause (a ) shall be omitted . 
76. ŞI B8TITUTION OF NEW SECTION FOR SECTION 397 IN ACT 1 OF 1898 ,-For section 397 
of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted , namely : 

“ 997 Sentence on offender alrrady sentenced for another offence.- ( 1 ) When a person already 
undergoing & sentence of imprisonment is sentenced on subsequent conviction to impri 
sonment or imprison mont for life , such impirisonment or imprisonment for life shull commence 
at the expiration of the imprisonment to which he has been previously sentenced , unless 
the Court diructs that the subscquent sentence shall run concurrently with such previous 
sentence : 
Provided that 

where a person who has been sentenced to imprisonment by an order 
under section 123 in default of furnishing security is , whilst undergoing 

is , whilst undergoing such Bontonoe , 
sentenced to imprisonment for an offence committed prior to the making of such order , 
the latter sentence shall commence immediately . 


case 


8 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30, 1955. 


1714 


on 


( 2 ) When a person already underguing a sentence of imprisonment for life is sentenced 

a subsequent conviction to imprisonment or imprisonment for life , the fubsequent sentence 
shall run concurrently with such previous sentence ." 

77 . AMENDMENT OF FECTION 398 , Act V or 1898. - In sub -section ( 2 ) of section 398 of the prin 
cipal Act , 

(a ) the words " or to a sentence of transportation " shall be omitted ; 

(b ) the words " or transportation ” shall be omitteil . 
78 . 

SECTION 10 ), Act V or 18 : 8. - To sub -section (6 ) of section 401 of the 
principal Act, the following proviso sbull be added , namely : 

" Provided that in the case of any scntence (other than a sentence of fine or whipping ) 
passed on a male person above the age of eighteen years , no such petition by the 

person 
sentenced or by any other person on his behalf shall be entertainel, unless the person sentenced 
is in jail , and 

(a ) where such petition is made by the person sentencel, it is prosented throngh 
the officer in charge of the jail; or 

( h ) where such potition is made by any other person , it contains a declaration that 
the person sentenced is in jail .” 
79 . AMENDMENT OF SECTION 402, ACT V OF 1898. - In sub -section ( 1) of section 402 of the 
principal Act, for the word " transporation ” , the words “ imprisonment for life ” shall be sub 
stituted , 
80 . A JENDMENT OP SECTION 406 , Act V or 1898.-- 111 section 406 of the principal Act , 

(a ) the first proviso shall be omitted ; 

( b ) in the second proviso , the word “ further” shall be omitted . 
81. OmigsiON OF SECTION 107 IN Act V of 1898 ,-Section 107 of the principal Act shall 
be omitted . 
82. A MEXIMENT OF SECTION 108 , ACT V OF 1898. - In section 408 of the principal Act, 

(a ) for the words " other Magistrate of the first class the words " any other Mågis 
trate " shall be substituted ; 

(b ) for the words " by a Magistrate of the first class” the words " by any Magistrate ” 
shall be substituted ; 

( c ) in the proviso, in clause (b ), the words “ or any sentence of transporation ” shall 
be omitted . 
83, SUBSTITI TION OF NEW SECTION FOR SECTION 409 Act . V of 1898 –– For section 409 of tbe principal 
Act , the following section shall be substituted , namely : 

" 409). Appeals to Courts of Session how heard .- ( 1 ) Subject to the provisions of this 
section , an appeal to the Court of Session or Sessions Judge shall be heard by the Sessions 
Judge or by an Additional Sessions Judge or an Assistant Sessions Judge : 

Provided that no snch appeal shall be heard by an Assistant Seesions Judge unless the 
appeal is of a person convicted on a trial held by any Magistrate of second or thirst class , 

(2 ) An Additionul Sorsions Judge or 41 Assistant Scrsions Judge shall hear only such 
appeals as the State Government may , by genera ] or special order , direct or as the Sessions 
Judge of the division may make over 

make over to him ." 
84 . SUBSTITUTION OF NEW SECTION FOR SECTION 417 IN ACT V op 1898 , -For section 117 of the 
principal Act , the following section shall he substituted namly : 

" 417. Appeal in case of acquittal.- ( 1) Sulojeot to the provisions of sub- section (5 ), the 
State Government may , in any case , dire« t the Public Prosecutor to present an appeal to the 
High Court from an original or appellate order of acquittal passed by any Court other than 
& High Court , 

(2) If such an order of acquittal is passed in any case in which the offence has been 
investigated by the Delhi Special Police Establishment constituted under the Delhi Special 
Police Establish ment Act, 1946 (XXXV of 1946 ), the Central Government may also dirot 
the Pablic Prosecutor to present an appeal to the High Court from the order of acquittal. 


18 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1955 . 


en 


(9 ) If ench an order of acquittal is paised in any caso instituted upon complaint and 
the High Court , on an application made to it by the complainant in this behalf, grants 
special loave to appeal from the order of acquittal, the complainant may present such 
appeal to the High Court. 

( 4 ) Non application under sub -section (3 ) for the grant of special leave to appeal from 
an order of acquittal shall be entertained by the High Court after the expiry of sixty days 
from the date of that order of acquittal. 
( 5 ) If, in 

If , in any case , the application under sub-section ( 3 ) for the grant of special leave 
to appeal from an oriler of acquittal is refused , no appeal from that order of acquittal shall 
lie under suih -rection ( 1 )." 

85 . AMENDMEST OF SECTION 423 , ACT V or 1898. In section 129 of the principal Act , 
after sub -section (1 ), the following sub - section shall be inserted , namely : -- 

" 1A ) Where an appeal from a conviction lior to the ligh Court , it may enhance, the 
sontence , notwithstandinz anything inconsistent therewith cuntained in clau190 (1 ) of sub 
secction ( 1 ) : 

Provided that the sentence shall not be ao enhancel, unless the accused has had an 
opportunity of showing cause against ruch enhancement." 
86. AMENDMENT OF SECTION 426 , ACT V OP 1898. - In section 420 of the principal Act, 

(a ) in rub -section (2A ) , for the words " accused of a nonbailable offence " , the words 
" convicted of a non -bailable offonce " shall be substituted ; 

( lv) in sub -rection ( 3), for the word " transportation ” , tho words " imprisonment for life " 
shall be substituted . 

87. AMENDMENT OF SECTION 428 , ACT V of 1898. - sub -section ( 3 ) of section 128 of the 
principal Act, the words " or ansesAvro." shall be omitted . 

88 . ADIENDMENT OF SECTION 163 , ACT V Or 1898 , - In sub- section ( 1 ) of section 40.5 of the 
principal Act, the words " with the aid of Adressors shall be omitted . 

89. INSNRTION OF NEW SECTION 479A IN Aor V or 1898. – After section 479 of the principal Act , 
the following sectiun shall be inserted , nawoly . 

" 479A Procedure in cerlain cases o fuls 3 cvilence- : 1) Notwithstan ling angihin ; 
tajned in sections 476 to 179 inclusive, when any Civil , Revenue or Criminal Court ន 
of opinion that any person appearing before it as a witness has intentionally given false 
uvidence in any stage of the judicial proceeding or has intentionally fabricated false ovi lonco 
for the 

purpost: of being used in any stage of the judicial proceeding , and that , for the 
eradication of the evils of perjury and fabrication of false evidense and in the interests of 
justice , it is oxpedient that such witness should be prosecujel for the offonce which appears 
to have been committed by him , the Court sball, at the time of the dolivery of the judy . 
inent or final order disposing of such proceoding , record a finding to that effect stating its 
rourons therefor and may , if it so thinks fit , after giving thu witness an opportunity of 
being heard , mako a cuinplaint thereof in writing signed by the presiding officer of the 
Court setting forth the evidence which , in the opinion of the Court , is false or fabricated 
and forward the same to a Magistrate of the first class having jurisdiction , and may , if 
the accused in present before the Court , take sufficient security for his appearance beforo 
such Magistrate and may bind over person to appear and give evilencs beforo such 
Magistrate : 

Provided that where the Court making the complaint is a High Court , the complaint 
inay be signed by such officer of the Court as the Court may appoint . 

Explanation .-- For the purposes of this Aub -section , a Presidency Magistrate shall bo 
deoined to be # Magistrate of the first class . 

(2) Such Magistrate shall thereupon proceed according to law and as if upon complaint 
unade under section 200 . 

( 9) No appeal shall lies from any finding recor.lud and comqlaint made under sub 
section ( 1 ). 

(4 ) Where , in any case , a complaint has been maile under sub - section (1) and an appeal 
has been preferred against the decision arrived at in the judicial proceeding out of which 
the matter has srisen , the hearing of the case before the Magistrato tu whoun the complaint 


C1 - 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1955 . 


was forwarled or to whom the case may have been transferred shall be ardjourned until 
Ruch appeal is decided ; and the appellate Court , after giving the person against whom the 
cumplaint has been made 

an opportunity of being heard , may , if it so thinks fit, make 
Qn order directing the withdrawal of the complaint ; and a copy of such umer shall be sent 
to the Magistrate beforo whom the hearing of the cane is ponding . 

( 5 ) In any care, where an appeal has been preferred from any decision of a Civil, 
Revenue or Criminal Court but no complaint has been made under rub- section ( 1 ), the power 
conferred in such Civil , Revenue or Criminal Court inder the said sulfection may be exer 
cised by the appellate Court ; and whero thu appellato ( ourt 114kes such complajot , the 
provisions of sub -section (1) shall apply accordingly , but to such order shall be made, without 
giving the perfon affocted thereby an opportunity of being hearil . 

(6 ) No proceedings shall be taken under sections 176 to 174 inclusive for the prosecution 
of a person for giving or fabricating fulso evidonce, if in respect of such a person procec 
dingo inay to taken under this section , 

90. INSERTION OF NEW SECTION 1-85A , IN ACT V or 1898. - Aftor section 485 of the principal 
Act, the following section shall be insertod namely : 

" 485.4 . Summary procedure for punishment for non - attendance by a witness in obedience lo 
summons.- ( 1 ) If any witness being summoned to appear beforo # Criminal Court is legally 
bound to appear at a certain place and time in obedience to the summons and without jant 
excuse neglects or refuses to attend at that place or time or departs from the place where 
he has to attend before the time at which it is lawful for him to depart, and the Court 
before which the witness is to appear is satisfied that it is expedient in the interests of 
justice that such witness should be tried summarily , the Court may take cognizance of the 
offonce and after giving the offender an opportunity of showing cause why he should not 
ho punished wer this section , geotence him to fine not exceeding one hundred rupees . 

( 2 ) In every such cand the Court shall follow , as nearly as may be practicable , the 
procedure prescribed for summary trails in which an appeal lier." 


91. AMENDMENT OF SECTION 486 , Act V or 1898 .-- In sub- section ( 1 ) of section 486 of the 
principal Act, after the word and figures " section 485 ” , the words , figures and letter " or section 
485A " shall be inserted . 


92 . AMENDJENT OF SECTION 488 , ACT V or 1898 .-- In sub - section ( 1) of sectiun 488 of the 
principal Act , for the words " one hundred rupees " , the words " five hunı red rupees ” shall be 
substituted . 

13 . AMENDMENT ON SECTION 189, ACT V OF 1898. - In sub - section ( 1) of section 489 of the 
principal Act, for the words " one hundred " , the words " five hundred ” shall be substituted . 
94 . AMENDMENT OF FECTION 497 , Act V or 1898. - In section 497 of the principal Act, 
( a ) in sub -section ( 1 ), 

( i) after the words “ accused of” , the words " or suspected of the commission of shall 
bo inserted ; and 

( ii ) for the word " transportation " , the word " imprisonment" shall be substituted . 
( b ) after sub -section (3 ), the following sub - section shall be inserted , namely : 

" (3A ) If , in any case triable by a Magistrate , the trial of a person accused of any non 
bailable offence is not concluded within a period of sixty days from the first date fixed for 
taking evidence in the case, sucb person shall , if he is in custody during the whole of 
the said period , be released ou bail to the batisfaction of the Magistrate , unless for reasons 
to be recorded in writing , tho Magistrate othorwise directs." 


95 . AMENDMENT OF SECTION 498 , Act V or 1898 .--Section 498 of the principal Act sball be 
re- numbered as sub -section ( 1 ) thereof and after sub - section (1 ) as so ro -numbered , the following 
-sub -section shall be inserted , namely 


20 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1955 . 


" (2) A High Court or Court of Session may causo any person who has been admitted 
to bail under mul -section ( ) to be arrested and may commit him to custody.” 

96 . A 31ENDMEAT or SECTION 499 , Acr V or 18.18 . - In xrction 499 of the principal Act, after 
sub -rection (2 ), the following sub - secti, in shall be inserted lamely 

" ( 3) For the purpose of «!etermining whether the puretics are snfliciont, the Conrt may, 
if it so thinks til , erropat affidavits in proof of the facts c.intained therein relating to tho 
sufficiency of the preties or may make unch further inquiry as it deems necessary . 


97. AMENDMENT OM SECTION 503 ICT , V op 1898. - In section 50 ;3 of the principal Act, 

(a ) in sub -section ( 1), for the wiredo " District Magistratu or Presidency Mazivtrate " , the 
words " ur any Magistrate " shall be substitute il ; 
( 11 ) to the said sub - section , the following provisu shall be addeil , namely 

" Provided that where the examinution of the Preriilent or the Vice - Presidont or 
the Governor or Rajpramukh of i State as a witness is 11 costary for the 

cuds of 
justic , & coromission shall be isrued for the examination of such a witness" ; 
( c ) sub -section (2 ) shall be omitted . 


98. AMENDMENT OF SECTIOX 503 , ACT V OF 1898.- In sub- section ( 1) of eection 505 of the 
principal Act, the words “ of the first class ” shall bc omitteil . 


99 . 


fo 


or 


AMENDMENT ON HECTION 510 , ACT V or 1 J8 - Soction 510 of the principal Act shall be 
ro- numbered as sub -section ( 1) thereof, and 

( n ) in sub -section ( 1 ) AN re -numbered , after the worils " Examiner to Government” , 
the words or the Chief Inspector of Explosives or the Director of Finger Print Burean 

an officer of the Mint shall be inserted ; 

( b ) after sub-section (1 ) as so re -numbered , the following sub -section shall be inserted , 
namely : 

“ ( 2 ) The Court may , if it thinks fit, and shall, on the application of the prose 
cution or the accuseil , summon and examine any such person as to the subject- matter 

of his report . " 
100. INSERTION OF NEW SECTION 510A IN ACT V or 1898 .-- After section 510 of the principal 
Act, the following section shall be inserted , namely : 

" 5101. Erilence on affidavits.- 1 ) The evidence of any person whose evidence is of a 
formal character may be given by affidavit and may , subject to all just exceptions , be read 
in evidence in any inquiry trial on other proceeding under this Code. 

( 2 ) The Court may , if it thinks fit , anil shall, on the application of the prosecution or 
the accused , simmon and examine any ruch person as to the facts contained in his affidavit." 


101. AMENDNENT OF SECTION 512 , Act V or 1898. - In sub -section (2 ) of section 512 of the 
principal Act , for the word " transportation ” , the words " imprisonment for life" shall be 
substitute 


102 . AMENDMENT or sacriOx 516A , ACT V of 1898. - In section 516 of the principal Act , 
after the words " speedy or natural decay " , the words " or if it is otherwise expedient so to do, 
the Court" shall be inserted . 
103. AMENDMENT OF SECTION 526 , Act V or 1898. - In section 526 of the principal Act , 
( a) after sub- section (1), the following sub-section shall be inserted , namely : 

" (1A ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- section ( 1), no application shall 
lie to the High Court, for the exercise of its powors under the said sub- section for trans 
ferring 

from one Criminal Court to another Criminal Court in the same 
sessions division , unless an application for such transfer has been made to the Sessions 
Judge and rejected by him ." . 


аnу case 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 195.7. 


21 


( 1 ) in sub - rection ( 8 ) , - 

(i ) after the wor.is " inake an application unler this section " , the words and figures 
" or under section 528 " hall be inserted ; and 


631 ) 10 


(ii ) in the proviso , after the worlds " from the 

party , the words " if tho 
application is intended to be made to the same Court in whirl the party has been given 
an opporturity of inahing mucho an application " nall be inserted 


104 . AMENDMENT OF MOTION 528 , Act 1 of 18:18 -Insertion 528 of the principal Act , - 

(a ) in kul -section ( 1 ) , for the words " any CONG" wherever they ucur , the words " any 
cafo or appeal” shall be substituted 

( b ) in rub- sectiot. (113 , for the world , brackets , figures and latter “ ecalls a case under 
sub - section ( 1 ) oil recalls is cuse or appeal nuder pub -reciton (14 )" , the worils, brackets , figures 
and letter " recalls a Cabe ol appeal under sub -section ( 1) or sub -section (IA ) " shall be 
subortituted ; 

(c ) after sub -section ( 11 ), the following sub-sectiou shall be inserteid , namely : 


" 1C Any Sessions judge , on au application made to him in this behalf , may , if 
he is of opinion that it is expedient for the ends of justice , order that any particular 
caso de transferred froin one Criminal Court to another Criminal Coart in the samo 
sessions division ." 


NEW 


SECTION 


105. SI BETITITION OF 

FOR 536 IN ACTV Of 1898 ... For section 536 of the 
principal Act, the following section shall be substituted , namely : -- 


“ 336. Trial withoni jury of offenced triable by jury –If an offence triable by a jury is triod 
without a jury , the trial shall not on that ground only lo invalid , unless the objection is 
taken before the Court proceeds to record evidence in the caso , " 


106 . AMENDMENT ON storios 537 , Act V or 1898. - In section 537 of the principal Act, 

( i) in clause ( a ), the word " charge " shall be omitted ; 

(ii) after clause ( a , the following clause shall be inserted , namely 
" b ) of any error, omission or irregularity in the charge , including any mirjoinder of 
charges or ” ; 

( iii ) in clause (c), the words " or assessors " shall be omitted . 


OF 


107. SUBSTITUTION VEW SECTIONS FOR SECTION 539A IN ACT V op 1898. - For section 53 : A 
of the principal Act , the following sections should be substituted , namely : 


“ 539A . Affidavil in proof of conduct of public servant.-- ( 1) W’ben any application is made 
to any Court in the course or ny inquiry , trial or other proceeding under this Code, and 
allegations are made therciu pting ang public servant, the applicant nay give evidonce 
of the facts alleged in the applintjun by affidavit, and the Court may , if it thinks fit , 
order that evidence relating to -116h facts be su given . 


(2 ) A Aidavits under this sicerin shall be confined to, and shall state separately , such 
facts as the deponent is able to prove from his own knowledge and such facts as hobea 
reasonable ground to believe to be true , and in the latter case , the deponent shall cloarly 
state the grounds of such belief, 

539AA . Authorities before whom affidavits may be sworn.- ( 1) An affidavit to be used before 
any Court other than a High C urt under section 510A or section 539A may be sworn 
affirmed in the manner prescrited in section 539 or before any Magistrate. 

(2 ) The Court may order any scandalous and irrelevant matter in the aflidavit to be 
struck out or anscnded .” 


or 


22 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1955 . 


108. AMENDMENT OF SECTiOx 5391 , Act V OF 1895 .-- In sub - section (2 ) of section 520B of 
the principal Act , in the proviso .-- 


(i) the words " or with the aid of assensors ” shall be omitted ; 
( ii ) the worils " orm* AUHBORS " shall be viitted . 


109. UREDNEXT OF SECTION 5.104 , Acr V OF 1898– For sub -section (1 ) of section 5-10A of the 
principal jut, the following sub - suction shall be rubstituted , namely:: 


reasons 


“ ( 1 ) At any stage of an inquiry or trial under this Cuile , if tho Judge or Magistrate 
in Kalinlied, for 

to be recorded , that the personal attendance of the uccured bofure 
tho Court is not necessary in the interests of justice , the Judge or Magistrate may , if the 
accused in represented by a pleader, dispense with his attendance and proceed with such in 
quiry or trial in his absence , and may , at any subsequent stage of the proceedings, direct 
the personal uttendance of such accusod ." 


110. AMENDMENT OF EXCTION 545 , Acr V or 1898 .-- In sub -section (1) of section 5.15 of the 
principal Act , 


& 


( i) for the words " & sentence of which fine forms a part" , the words and brackets 
sentence (including a sentence of death ) of which find forms a part " shall be substituted 


3 


( ii) after caluse ( b ) , the following clause -hall be insorted , Damely 


“ (bb ) when any person is convicted of a ny offence for having caused the doath of 
another person or of having abotted the commission of such an offenco , in paying com 
pensation to the persons who are , under the Fatal Accidents Act, 1855 (XIII vf 1855 ) 
entitled to recover damages from the person sentenced for the loss resulting to them 
from such death . " 


111. INSERTION OF NEW RECTION 555 A IN ACT V or 1898 .-- After section 557 of thc priucipal 
Act, the following section shall be inserted , namely 


- 


" 553A , Power of High Court to make rules in respect of pelilion wrilors .- ( 1 ) Every ligh 
Court may , from time to time, and with the previous approval of the State Government, 
mako rules 


as to the persons who may be permitted to act as petition writers in the Cri 
minal Courts subordinate to it ; 


regulating the issue of licence to such persons, the conduct of business luy thein , 
anl the scale of feos to be charged by thein ; und 


(c) providing a penalty for a contravention of any of the rules so made and determining 
the authority by which such contravention may be investigated and the penalties imposed . 


Provided that the rules made under this rection shall not be inconsistent with this Code or 
any other law in force for the time being . 


(2 ) All rules made under this section shall be published in the Official Gazotte. " 


112. AMENDMENT OF SECTION 582, Act V or 1898. - In sub - section ( 1 ) of section 562 of the 
principal Act, for the words " transportation for life ". the words " imprisonment for life" shall 
be substituted , 


118. A MENDMENT OF SECTION 565 , Act V or 1898. - In sub- section ( 1 ) of section 565 of the 
principal Act , the words " tra nsportation or shall be omitted . 


114.AmendmentofScheduleIItoActVof1898.-InScheduleIItotheprincipalAct, 

(a)fortheentriesrelatingtosection100,sectionillandsection502,thefollowingentriesshallbesubstituted,namels: 


8 


7 


os 


5 


3 


st 


1 


2 


CourtofSession. 


Bailable. 


Shallnotarrestwithout warrant, 


Warrant. 


Compoundallewith thepermissionof theCourtbefore whichtheprosecu tionispending. 


"500(alDefamation(otherthandefamationlyspokenwords), 

againstthePresideptortheVice-Presidentorthe GovernororRajpramukhofaStateoraMinister oranyotherpublicservantemployedinconnection withtheaffairsoftheUnionorofaStateiniespect ofhisconductinthedischargeofhispublicfunctions, wheninstituteduponacomplaintmadebythePublic Prosecutor. 


Simpleimprison mertfor two yearsorfineor both. 


Litto 
. 


Compoundable. 


Ditto, 


Ditto 
. 


Ditto 
. 


(b)Defamationinanyothercase. 


CourtofSession, 
PresidencyHuo gi-trateorMagis. trateoftbefirst class. 


Ditto. 


Courto:fcssioo, 


Ditto. 


Ditto 
. 


Ditto 
. 


Compoundablewith thepermi-sionof theCourtbefore whichtheprojecu tiouispending 


SOL(alPrintinzofengravingmatterknowingittobede 

faccatorsagainstthePre-identortheVice-President ortheGovernororRajpramukhofaStateora Ministeroranyotherpublicservantempluyedin connectionwiththeaffairsoftheUnionorofil Siateinrespectofhisconductinthedischargeof bispublicfunctions,wheninstitutedupunacomplaint 

madebythePublicProsecutor. (t)Printingorengraringmatterkrowingittolede 

ſanatory,inanyothercase, 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1955 . 


D 
tto 
. 


Compounda”le. 


Bailable. 


Warrant. 


Ditto. 


CourtofSession, Presidenoylas FistrateorMa. is. trateofthefi:st class. 


CourtofSession. 


Ditto. 


Ditto 
. 


Ditto 
, 


Ditto 
. 


Compoundablewith thepermissionof theCour!before which 
theprosecu tionispending. 


512(a)Saleofprintedorengravedsubstincecontaining 

defamatorymatter,kpowingittocontainsuch matteragainstthePresidentortheVice-President ortheGovernerorRajpramukhofaStateora Ministeroranyotherpublicservantemployedin connectionswiththeaffairsoftheL njonorofa Stateinrepeceofhiscondnctinthedischarge ofhispubicfunctions,wheninstitutedupona 

complaintinadebythePublicProsecutor. (b)Saleofprintedorengravedsubstancecontaining 

defamatorymatterknowingittocontaiosuchmat ter,inanyothercase. 


Ditto. 


Compoundable. 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


CourtofSession, 
Presidency 

da 


gistraleorMagis trateofthefirst class." 


24 


MANIPUR GJZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , ! 955 . 


( h ) in the entries relating to sections 161, 162 , 163 , 164 and 167, in the 3rd column, 
for the words " Shall ont arrest without warrant ” wherever they occur , the woris " May arrest 
without warrant " whall be substituted ; 

( c ) in the entries relating in sectionis 3.14 , 121 , 122 , 423 , 424 , 428 anıl 42! , in the 6th 
column, for the words “ Not compounilable " wherever they occur , the words “ Compoundable when 
permission is given ly the Court before which the prosecution is prending ” shall be sulstituted ; 

(d ) in the entries relating to sections 37 , : S ) , 406 , 107 and 408 in the 6th column , 
for the worde, “ Not compound:s life." wherever they cccur , the worllo " Compoundable when the 
value of property does not exceed two hundred and liſty rupees and permission is given by 
the Court bofure which the prosecution is pending " shall be substituted . 
( c ) in the 2nd column and the 7th colonn , -- 

(i) for the words , " transportation for life " wherever they occur, the words " imprison 
inent for life " shall be multitutel; 


( ii ) any reference to transportation for any term or to transportation for any shorter 
term shall be omitted . 

(iii ) for the word " transportation " wherever it occurs, iſ it means transportation for 
life , the words “ imprisonment for life ” shall be substitutet!; and the word " transportation ” 
wherever it occurs , if it means transportation for any shorter term , sball be omitted . 


h 


115. AMENDMENT Or SCHEDI IN V TO Act Vol 1898 , - In Schedulo V to the principal Act, 

(a ) in Form XXXII , the words " uod Assessora " , wherever they occur shall be omitted ; 

( b ) in Form XXXIII, the words “ AsF05sors or ” and the words " and A Bressor" shall be 
omitted ; 
( o ) in Forn XXXVI, 

(i ) for the words “ tausportation for life " , the words " imprisonment for life " shall be 
substituted ; 

(ii) for the word " tranportation " , the words " imprironment for life" shall be substituted . 
116 . SAVINOS —Notwitlistanding that all or any of the provisions of this Act havo como into 
force in 

any 

State , 
( ) the provisions of section 14 or section 30 or Rection 145 or section 146 of the principal 
Act as amended by this Act shall not apply to, or affect, any trial or other proceeding which , on 
the date of such commencement, is pening before any Magistrate, and every such trial or 
other proceeding shall be continued and disposed of as if this Act had not been passed ; 

(b ) the provisions of section 406 or section 408 or section 409 of the pricipal Act as amendra 
buy this Act shall not apply to , or allect , any appeal which , on the date of such commencement, 
is pending before the District Magistrato oro any Magistrate of the first class empowered by 
the Siate Government to heas such appeals , and every such appeal shall, notwithstanding the 
repeal of the first proviso to section 400 or of section 107 of the principal Act , be heard and 
disposed of as if this Act had not been passed ; 

le ) the provisions of clauke (w ) of section 4 or section 2074 or section 251A 
260 of the principal Act as amended by this Act shall not apply to , or affect, any inquiry or 
trial before a Magistrate in which the Magistrate has begun to rocoril evidence prior to the date 
of such commencement and which is pending on that date , and every such inquiry or trial 
shall be continued and disposed of as if this Act had not been passed ; 

( d) the prıvisions of Chapter XXIII of the principal Act as amended by this Act shall 
not apply to , or affect , any trial before a l ourt of Sessinn either by 

jury or with the aid of 
assessors in which the Court of Session has begun to record evidence prior to the date of 
such commencement and which is pending on that date , and every such trial shall be con 

tinued and dispusod of as if this Act had not been passed ; 
but , save as aforesaid , the provisions of this Act 

and the amendments made thoroby shall 
apply to all proceedings instituted after the commencement of this Act and also to all proove 
dings pending in any Criminal Court on the date of such commencement . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1955 . 


25 


AND 


117. AMENDMENT OF ACT XLV or 1800 , ACT X or 1874 

ACT IX or 1908 --The Indian 
Penal Code (Act YLV of 1860 ), the Indian Oaths Act, 1873 ( X of 1973 ) and the Indian 
Limitation Act , 1968 ( 1X of 1908) shall be amended in the manner specified in the Schedule . 


THE SCHEDULE 

( Ser section 117 ) 
A. AMENDMEN S TO THE INDIAN PENAL Cupe (ACT XLV ( f 1860 ) 
1. Infection 53, for Wie worils " Secondly , -- Transportation " the words " Secondly , - Impri 
sonment for life shall be substituted . 
2. After suctiun 5 % , the fullowing section shall be inserted , namely : 

" 53A . Construction of reference to transportation , -- ( 1 ) Sulyject to the provisions of sub -fection 
( 2 ) and sub -section ( 3 ), any reference to " transportation for life” in any other lily for tho 
time being in force or in any instrument or orier having effect by virtue of any such law 
or of any enactment l opealeil shall be construed us a reference to " imprisonment for lifo ” . 

( 2 ) In every care in which a sentence of transportation for a term has been panned 
before the commencement of the Code of Criminal Procedure ( Amendment ) Act, 1954 , the 
offender shall be dealt with in the same manner as if sentenced to rigorous imprisonment 
for the same term . 


term or 


(3 ) Any reference to transportation for a 

to transportation for any shorter term 
(by whatever name called ) in any other law for the time being in force shall be deemed 
to bave been omitted . 

(4 ) any reference to " transportation ” in any other law for the time being in force 
shall , 

(a ) if the expression means transportation for lifo, be construed & reference to 
imprisonment for life ; 

(b ) if the expression means transportation for any shorter term , he deemed to have 
been omitteil ." 
8. In section 55 anil section 57 , for the word " transportatiou ” wherever it occurs , the 

wora 
" imprisonment" shall be substituted . 

4. Section 58 and poction 59 shall be omitted , 

Ā . In section 73 , section 115 , section 118 und section 11 % , for the words " transportation 
fur life ” wherever they occur, the words " imprisonment for life " , shall be substituted . 

6. In sub - section (1 ) of section 120B , for the word " transportation ” , the words " impripon 
ment for life s shall be fubstituted . 

7. In section 121 , for the worils " transportation for life ? , the words " imprisonment for 
life ” shall be substitutel, 

8. In section 121A , for the words " tranportation for life or any shorter term ” , the words 
" imprisonment for life" shall be rubstituted . 

9. In section 12 % for the words “ transportation for lifo ” , the words " imprisonment for lifo ” 
shall be substituto :) . 

10 . In section 124A , for tho wores transportation for life or any shorter term ” , the words 
" imprisonment for life" shull be substituted . 

11. In section 12.5 , section 128 , srolion 131 , section 131, section 132 and section 194 , fur 
the words “ transportation for life " , the words " imprisonment for life " shall be substituted . 

12. In section 105 , for the words " transportation for life ” and “ such iransportation ” wherever 
they occur, the words " imprisonment for life ” shall be substituted . 
13. In 

section 201 , section 211, section 212, section 213 , section 214 , section 216 , and section 
221 , for the words " transportation for life " wherever they occur , the words " imprisonment for 
life " shall be substituted . 

14. In soction 222 and section 225 , 


26 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 1955 . 


(i) for the words " truurportation for life." wherever they occur, the words “ imprisonment 
for life." shall be substituted ; 

(ii) the word " Iran - portation " shall be omitted . 
15. Section 221; thall be omitted , 

16. In section 232 , section 238 , section 255 , fection 302 , section 303, section 304 , section 
305 , section 307 , Fiction 311. section 313 , rection 314 , rection 326 , Section 32 , section 331, 
section 371, section 376 , Section 377 , section 388 , rootion 389 , section 3994 , section 39.5 , section 
396 , Kection 404 ), fertion 409 , section 412 , section +13 , sectiou 431 , section 43$ , section 149 , 
section 430 , scotion 459 , setion 460 , Heorion 467 , section 172, rection 17:4, rcction 175 , fection 
477 , Auction 48 ! A , section 48. Daud se:( .jon 489B , for the word " .ransportation for life whorever 
they occur , the worila imprironment for lite shall be substituted . 

17. In Rection 506 , for the word " transportation " , the words “ imprisonment for life" shall 
be substituted 
18. in section 511 , 

( i) for the words " transportation " where it occurs for the first time, the words “ impri 
son ment for life " whull be kubatituted ; 

( ii ) for the words " transportation or imprisonment of any description provided for the 
offence , for a terın of transportation or imprisonment which may extend to one - half of the 
longest term provided for that offenco" , the following words shall be substituted : 

" imprironment of any description provided for the offence , for a term which may 
extend to one- half of the imprisonment for life or , as the case may be, one -half of 

the longest term of imprisonment provided for that offence " . 
B. A MENDMENT TO THE INDIAN OATIIN ACT , 1873 ( X or 1873) 

In sootion 5 , after the words " valh or alirustino tu the accused person " the worils " un cas 
he is examined 88 witness for the defenco " shall be inserted . 

C. A NENDUENT TO TAU INDIAN LIMITATION ACT , 190S (IX or 1908 ) 
In the Third Division of the First Schedulr , in article 157 , for the entry in the second 
column , the entry " three months " shall be substituted . 


8 


Imphal, the 22nd November , 1955. 
No. RH /77/51- A / 77.- The following Notification No. F.44 (6 ) 81,55 dated 26-9-55 
issued by the Govt. of India , Ministry of Ruhabilitation, New Delhi is published 
for general information . 

H. R. Siogh , 
Asstt . Secy . (GIl .) to the Govt . of Manipur . 


NOTIFICATION. 
S. R. O. No. - In pursu ince of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 95 of the Displaced Persons 
( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Rules , 1955 , the Contral Government hereby invites 
applications in the form specified in Appendix XXVI to the said Rules , within ninety 
days from the date of publication of this notification , for the payment of rehabili 
tation grants , from every displaced person 

( a ) who came to India froin West Pakistan before the 31st July , 1952 ; and 
( b ) Who has left immovable property in West Pakistan in respect of which 

ho holds title deeds or possesses other documentary evidence of titlo , but 
in respect of which he was prevented by sufficient cause from filing a 
claim under the Displaced Persons ( Claims) Act, 1950 (XLIV . of 1980 ). 

( No, F. 41( 6 )81/65 ) 
Sd K. J. George, 
Duputy Secretary to the Govt . of India . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30, 1955. 


27 


PART IV 


Imphal, tho 22nd November , 1955 . 
No. RH /77/51- A 79 .-- The following Press Notes issued by the Govt. of ludia , 
Minjsry of Rehabilitation , New Delhi are republished for general information . 

11. R. Singh , 
Asstt. Secretary (GIL ) to the Govt. of Manipur . 


PRESS NOTE . 


CONCESSIO TY WEST PAKIST.1 . 11.1 8 . 


( NDER COMPENSATION ACT . 


or 


TIPLICATIONS TOR GRANTS INVITED) FROM LITE ARRIVALS 

DECEMPER 9 , 1957 18 LAST DATE . 
The Central Government have published a notification in the Gazette of India 
date : September 10 , 1955 , under rule 96 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and 
Rel;abilit :ztion ) l ules , 1955 , inviting applications for the payment of rebabilitation 
grants from ail displace i persons having 12u verified claims who have left immovable 
property in West laki - tan , and who came to India from West Pakistan after July 
31, 1952 . 

Applications for rehabilitation grant should be made on the prescribed form and 
handed over or sent to the Settlement Officer within whose jurisdiction the appli 
cant resides , carries on business , or works for gain . The prescribed forms aro 
on sale at one anna per forn at the office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner , 
Metcalie House Pelini , office , of all the Regional Sottlement Commissioners and all Settle 
ment Offices under the Contral Ministry of Rehabilitation . Arrangements are also being 
made to make the firms available at post oflices . 
Every application for rehabilit :ation grant shall bus accompanied : 
(i) by a fee of cight nnas only in the form of a postal order for this 

amount, crossed in the name of the Settlement Officer concernes , 
provided that where the person liable to pay the fee resides outside India , 
recript of the amount of 

the fee by an officer authorised in this 
behalf by the representative of India in the cuntry where such person 

resides, shall be sufficient evidence about the payment of the fee ; 
( ii ) in the case of a displaced person arriving in Indit after tho introduc 

tion of tho passport system (October 15 , 1952) by a truc copy of the 

migration certificare ; 
( iii ) in the case of any other displaced person , by other sitisfactory proof 

of urrival in Jodia after July 31, 1952 ; and 
( iv ) 

by an affidavit containing particulars of any property left in West Pakistan . 
Applicants should till in all the parti •ulars required in the form carefully , 
as to avoid delay which will be caused if inaccurate or incomplete information is given . 
The last date for the filing of applicationt is December 9 , 1955. 

Displaced Persons entitled to file applications for rehabilitation grants under this 
notification , who are residing outside In lia , should apply to the Chief Settlement 
Commissioner , Metcalfe House , Civil Lines , Delhi, eithor directly or through a duly 
appointed agent, or through the accre lited Mission 3 broad . 
Ministry of Rehabilitation . 
New Delhi, September 10 , 1966 . 


AO 


28 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1955. 


PRESS NOTE . 


Apr’LICATIONS FOR WHABILITATI IGRANTS INVITED FROM CERTAIN 


( LASSES ON TI S . 


LAST DATUR ILL.VOER 30 , 195 :) . 
The enral Goierunt 
. lire publis ..., pustification in the Gazette of India 
drid li to p 1 , ! 9 :55 undir rule onilips visplaced Persons (Comprusaſion and 
Rehabilitarji n ) Rule 1975 mit.c «? ...lir.lients for the payme : 1 

of selal iliation 
grunda 

irail ( e.tail ol ! : 0 of displacrit persons who have lefi immovable property 
in 1st Pilin illi : pi ulic ( * 111 :: tri :... jd tiru Wist liikiniai 

July 
19. 2. auch wiba . f sullicient 

: l er ined from lilin their claims under 
the Displaced lesson Viims) Act, 1995.140 ( LIV of 19.30)). 

Every application fr chabilitation grant shu be a companied by 


lief ro 


31 , 


( alise 


Hie 


ܙ 
ܐ 


(a ) an attested copy of title deeds of the property or documentary evidence 

in ro - pect of the tiily to the property left in West Pakistan in respect 
of which a claim could have been filed u der the Displaced Persons 
(Claims) Act , 19:50 ; 


( b ) an affidavit giving particulars of such property ; 
( c ) an affidavit containing rra - ons for the claim not having been filed in 

respect of such property under the Displaced persons (Claims) Act , 1950 

( XLIV of 1950 ) ; 
(d ) by a fee of aunas right only in the form of a postal order for this 

amount crossed in the name of Settlement Officer concerned , provided 
that whrie le person liable to pay the foc resides outside India a 
receipt of the amount received by the representative in the country 
whore such persona resid s shall be sufficie : t evidence about the payment 
of the fee . 


liver or 


Applicants should carefully comply with these reqnirements and giro accurate and 
complete information . "The tiile deeds in original will have to be produced beforo 
the Setticment Ollicer itt thiy time of verificati n . No ribabilitation grant is payable 
in respect of a projerty which the ap ; liciunt liad failed to include in a claim tiled 
by him in res ect of other properties under tie Displaced Persons (Claims) Art , 1950 . 

Applications fur rehabilitation grant should is prefurred on the form pro - cribed 
in Amj. dix XXVI of the rules and handed 

sent to the Settlement 
Office: ithiu whose jurisdiction the applicant resides , or carried on business, or works 
for all. Tive prescribe forms imo on sal itt one innit perform it the office of 
the 

S : ttlement Commissioner, Metcalfe hone. Delhi, offices of the Regional 
Settlem . 116. Commissioners and all Settlement Offices under the Central Ministry of 
Rehnl. Tition . Arrangements are also being mide to Wakn the forms available at 
post llices . 

TH last date for receipt of applications is December 31, 1956 . 

Th . Displaced Poisons entitled to file applications for rehabilitation grants under 
this I wiification , who are residing outside India , should apply to the Chief Settle 
ment Cuisinissioner, Metcalfe House , Delhi, either directly , or through a duly appointed 
agent , or through the accredited Missions abroad . 


Ministıy of Rehabilitation 
New Delhi, October 1, 1955 . 


MAVIMUR GAZETTE , NOVESKER 30 , 1955 . 


NOTICE No. 211 


Imphal, the 21st November 1955 . 
1 . Applications for two stipend.:ry stuid ntslip inre invited frm the Tribal candi 
dates (Hillmen ) who iire nitives of Manipur ind wish t uudergo Ranger s training 
in the Southern Forest Kinrar College , ( oimbatore , in the course for 1956-58 . 
2 . All the ap 

11. Just lie liompanied by in certificat of having passed 
the Interma. late Examini s ni of :: V 1. C gnised 12,1 u University or its equivalent 
with two or more of the foll : 10 . Stij . ts : vatie : a ia s Play : ies Chim stry , Botany 
and Zubegy . Candidates :: 10 also requirrid tos produ : tw . rtificites of good ch : racts 
fr: m tlie ( azetted 

Cirivredil ent :lt ti 

f interview . pplications 
fruri the persulis alre , Ily in erici in in uf the Government Offices shwuld be 
sulimitt. d tliroll li proier ci ainel. 
3 . 

Belir adinis..on into the College, candidates are required to qualify in an 
examination in th followin . Subjects : 


i vanis 


li !. e 


(i ) Dictation in Englisi). 
( ii ) An sway to be written in Englisbon a simple subject . 
( iii ) Mathematics (Aritbmetic , Gio : etry and Algebra ). The standard of this 

paper will be that of Matriculation . 
(iv ) General Knowledge - This will include elementary Science, Geography 

and Corrupt cients . 


lu order to quality , it camiidilte inust obtain at lu.st 40 per cent of the mirks 
in each subject . 

4. The qualifying examination will be held on the 12t! and 13th Decomber, 
195 ) , and 

the detailed programme of which will he ntified in due curso . This 
Govt. has moved thu . Cillege inuthurises les pen is supple :nºn ary centre at linphal 
If sanctioned , the exaniwtion will be held at Imphal. 

( audidates must possess the following minimum standare of physical fitness : 


5 . 


Hieglit - Oft . 4 inches. 


Chest - 31 inches , expansion to 33 inches . 


more than 24 ypars of age on 1st 


6. Cundidiates must not be less than 18 or 
July , 19.71. 


7. According to come rules students must be in ruceipt of it stipend of Rs. 75 / 
por month throu - ho ! i ve Cutirse , to met: t their living expenses. The Government 
of Manipur will pay 

runthly slipend of Rs . 70 /- only and the silected candidate 
shall have to inake no ide shortage of Rs . 5 /- per month . a ut of Rs. 900 / - to 
be expended in respre f equipment charse , Rs. 17.1% will be given is a help by 
the Government. Or !!igo remaining His . 725 / one half will be remitted by the 
Covt . and the other · If will be recoveril in suitable instalments from the can 
didate when he joins service on completion of training . 

The Govt . will var all other expenses which will be incurred on the 
didates , in r9xpect of Culinge tuition fues, travelling allowances etc. while in the 
College , which will am unt to Rs. 6,500 /- for the whole course . 

9. The candidate will have to defray his own travelling expenses for joining 
and leaving the College and on journeys , during the Vacations, 


8 . 


can 


30 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1955 . 


10 . Within 1.1 days of their admission into the College, the selected candidates 
shall deposit a caution money e sum of Rs . 100 /- only pledged to the head of the College as 
required under nule 33 of the Rules for the Ranger Course in Forestry. 

11. A sulected candidate will be required to execute an agreement and security bond 
in a prescribed form which may be seen in the Forest Ollice . 

12. After successfully passing through the College and obtaining a certificate , the 
stipendiary students may be appointed as Rangers in the subordinate Forest Service of 
Manipur. 

Applications slating the abuve particulars in full will be ecuived by the undersigned 
upto 4-0 P.M.on the 5th December, 1955 . 

R. K. B. C. Singh , 
Forest Ollicer, Government of Mauipar. 


Imphal, the 24th November , 1955 . 
Applicatious stating age , academic qualifications, past exp rience etc. are invitod 
so as to reach the Principal, D. M. Collego, Imphal by 7-12-55 for the temporary 
post of a lecturer in Chemistry in scule of 175-175-200-15-350-20-450 /- plus D. A. @ 
17 % . The post is sanctioned upto 21-2-86 but is expected to be extended beyond 
that date . 
Qualification : Essential -- At least 2nd class M. Sc. in pure Chemistry with 

HIonours degree in the subject . 

Age : -- Below 30 years. 
DESIRABLE : - At least 3 years teaching experience upto degree standard . Other 
thịngs being equal preference will be given to candidates knowing one 
kooal languages . 

Candidates if married , should state the number of wives living . 

Candidates should be prepared to como to Imphal at their own expense for 
interview if required , and in case of selection should be able to join immediately . 


or more 


an 


N. B. Sinha , 
l rincipal, 1. M. College , Imphal. 


NOTICE No. IS ! 5/52 

Impbal , the 26th November, 1955, 
Applicutions are invited for an Account Assistant in the office of the Inspector 
of Schools, Manipur in the scale of pay Rs. 100-150 %. p.m. with D. A. Applica 
tions stating age, qualifications, full address, previous experience and number of 
living wives if married , will be received by the undersgined on or before 6th 
December, 1955 during office hours . In the case of candidates having equal quali 
fications preference will be given to those who know one or more of local languages. 

Minimum qualification should be a graduate with some clerical experience or a 
Matriculate with at least 4 years experience in Acoounts. 

Candidates are required to attend the office of the Inspector of Schools , Manipur 
on 6-12-3 ; for interview with necessary certificates. 

K. Goury Singh , 
lns, ector of Schools , Manipur , 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30 , 1966 . 


3r 


Imphal, tlieth November , 1965 . 
Sealed Tenders are invited from contractor- for the following works upto 3-30 
P. M. on 9-12-55 . The tenders will be opened on the same day at p.m. 


SI. No. 


Particulars . 


Approximate 

1081. 


Earnest 
Money 


Time of 
completion . 


1.8 . 


Ks. 


. 


1 . 

( onstruction of Dispensary 
Buildings at Bishenpur . 34,214 

6563 

8 montbs . 
2 . 

Construction of Sub Divi 
81onal Officer s quarter it 
Churrchandpur . 

2 :3 ,!123 

600 

4 mouths . 
3 . Do llospital Buildings at 
U Ᏺ hu 

37,433 

940 

4 months . 
4 . Do - Sul..Deputy Collector s 
quarter at Bishenpur. 

19,116 

480) 

4 inonths . 
5 . Do-Hospital Buildings at 
Churaclaudpur . 

20,733 

520 

4 months . 
6 . Do -Police Buildings at Mao ... 41,948 

10.30 

4 months . 
7 . Metalling connecting I, B. 

road 4 mile to Tiddim 
Ruad 41 mile . 

58,600 

1470 

9 months . 
8 . 

Improvement uf Cachar 
Road 161-467 mile . 

79,094 

1980 

9 months . 
Dotailed plans and specifications can be seen in the office of the undersigned on 
any working day within office hours . Tender Forms can be had from this offica 
or payment of Re. 1 / - each , 

E. Krishnan , 
Executivo Engineer , Highways Division , 

P. W. D. Manipur . 


2 


Imphal, the 28th November, 1955 . 
Seuled teuders are invited for the work " Raising Low Places on Thoubal Mayang 
Imphal Road by the undersigned 80 as to reach him not later than 15-12-35 . The 
estimated cost of the work is Rs. 3620 /- Fuller particulars and tender forms ( price 
Re . 1 ) may be obtained from the office of the undersigned duriog office hours . 


K. L. Singb , 
Project Executive Officer , Thoubal. 


NOTICE No. ME ( J ). 

Imphal, the 26th November , 1955 . 
PRELIMINARY PUBLICATION OF MUNICIPAL ROLLS . 
A draft list 

of electors included in Ward Nos . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 & 5 of the Impbel 
Municipality has been published for general information . Persona interest can inspect 
the draft rolls either at the Election Office or at the Town Fund Ottice during 
efice hours . Any claim for inclusion of a name in the draft rolls or any objoction 
to any entry therein shall 

shall be preferred to the undersigned not later than 
the 10th day of December , 1955 upto 4 p.m. after wbich no claims and objections will be 
entertained . 

T.C. Tiankham , 
Senior Extra Assistant Commissioner & Magistrate 

i/ c Municipal Election , Imphal. 


3 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , NOVEMBER 30, 1956 . 


নাভিশ 

। 

তাং ২৯ | ১৯ | ৫৫ ইং 
অসিনা মরম ওইদুনা খংহঞ্জরি মরমদি তাং ১৯১৯১৫৫ ইং ক্রোক তে’দুনা পােলিশকী জিমাদা থন লক্ষেল পাকী 
মী ১০ ম শেফমদা হেবা ফৌ তাং ২৫৯১৫৫ ইংদা নিলাম লওগনি হায়না নােটিশ তৌখিবা অদু লিজ হােলদার 
ওই মীশিংনা ভাং ৫২৫৫ ইং ফাওবগী মনুদ। মশা মশাগী লেফমদগী মশা মশানা লােকচবা যারগনি । হয়রিবা 
উক্ত তারিখকী মতুংদগী অমুকইন্না লিজ হােলদার ওইর মী ১০ না মা মাগী লে ফমনি হায়দুনা দখল তোবা যাদ্রে । 

R. K. Manisna Singh , 
Sub - Doputy Collector/ I. W. T. 


Imphal, the 22nd November , 55 . 
No. Tax /51,53B.— The following latter No. 48 ( 10 )-I . T.155 dated 4 , 10. 55 issued 
by the Govt. of Indiik, Ministry of Finance (Revenue Division ) New Delhi is published 
for general information . 

A. k . Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


Sub : - Income Tax - Deduction from salaries during 1955-56 , 
I am directed to invite a reference to this Ministry s letter No. 48 (10 ) .I.T ./68 , 
dated the 4th July 1955 , and to say that the corrections indicated below may 
please be made therein : 
(i) In Example IV , on page 6 , the words " one twentieth of" appearing in the 

sentence in bracket ( - ) occuring below the entry " Total tax ” , shall be omitted . 
( ii ) In Example V , on page 1, tbe figures , letters and word 1/20th of “ appearing 

in the sentenes in bracket ( ) occuring below the entry " Surcharge w1/ 20th 
of Rs. 244-12-6," shall be omitted . 


Imphal, the 30th Novom ber, 1955 . 
The 16th and 23rd of November , 1955 being Holidays on account of Bhatri. 
Dwitiya and Gosta Astawi respectively there were no issues of the Manipur Gazette 
on that dates. 

N. Singh , 
Superintendent , Govt . Press , Manipur , 


Impbal :-Printed and published by ihe superintendent Government Press O. 201730-11-45 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


बचमन 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 42 


Imphal, Wednesday , December 7 , 1965 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Pago 


1 


Part 1. - Appointmenis , l osting s , Traosters, Powers , 

Lorve and other personal noticos, 
Part II . - Rosolutions, Regulations, Orders , Notifi 

cations , Rulos etc.. 


Part Ill .- Orders, Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV .-- Advertisements and Noticos otc . 


3 to 5 

to 9 


1 to 2 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imph :ll, the and December , 1955 . 
No. J/ 14 / 55. - In exercise of the powers conferred loy sections 12 and 39 of tho 
Code of ( rin inal Procedure , the Chief ( onwissioner is pleased to invest Shri R.K. 
Mavisana Singh and Shri A. Helim Ahned ! howdhury , Sub - Deputy Collectors with 
the powers of a Magistrate Third Class within the jurisdiction of the State of Manipur. 

This Order shall come into effect from the date of its publication in the Manipur 
tazette . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


PART II 


Imphal, the 29th November , 1957 . 
No. K.CS /3 / 55 .- ] n accordanco with the provision of Section 3 (a ) of the Manipur 
Foodgrains (Movement Control) Order , 1955, the Chief Comnissioner is pleased to 
direct that permits for movement of Chira from Manipur may be issued by the 
Deputy Commissioner , Manipur . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Socretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


6 


Imphal, the 20th November , 1955 . 
AMENDMENT OF RULES FRAMED UNDER THE 

(MANIPUR CO -OPERATIVE SOCIETIES ACT , 1947 ) 
IR oxeroine of the Prowers conferred by Sub- section ( 1 ) and ( ?) of Section 43 
of the Manipur Co -operative So ieties Act, 1947 ( the Co -operative Societies Act II 
of 1912), the Chief Commissioner is hereby ple:: sed to make the following amendmonts 
to the Rules framed under the said Act in order to carry out the purposos of the 
mid Act , the same having been proviously published as required by Sub Section 
of the said Section , 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 7 , 1956 . 


present 


80 


1. Renumber the present Rule 7 as 7 (na ) and add the following as (b ) 
Powor of Registrer to 

( b) (1) If it appears to the Registrer that an ainondonent 
direct amendment of the 

of the by - laws of t registered society is necessary 
by - laws of a registered 
society , 

or dosirable in the interest of such society , be may , 
by order in writing to be issued to the society , 
require the society to make the amendinent within 

Auch time as he may specify in such order. 
( 2 ) If any society fails to inake any such amendment 

within the time specified , the Registrar may , after 
giving the society an opportunity of being heard 
register such amendment , and issue to the socioty 
a copy of the amendment, certified by him , whioh 
shall be concluzive evidence that the amendoient bao 
boon duly registered and such amendment shall be 

binding on the members of such society . 
(3) An appeal shall lie to the Government from any 

order of the Registrar passed under sub.section (2 ) 
within two months from the date of the issue of 
such order . The order of the Government on appeal 
and ruhjeot to the result of such appoul, if any , 

the decision of the Registrar shall be final. 
Substitute the following Rule 19 for Rule 19 of the 

Rules 
Dividend Linnit of. 

( 1) (a) In no ciety shall the dividend on the paid up 

share capital exceed 9 per cent per annum , without 

the sanction of the Registrar . 
(b ) In any society with shares and unlimited liability , 
the balance of the net profit in any your 

after 
crediting the reserve fund with the amount PIMA 
cribed in rule 23 ( 3 ) may be divided 

among the 
share - holders is dividend on their sharos subject to 
8 maximum of 9 per cent per annum on the amount 

paid up on each share . 
( c ) No dividend shall be distributed by any society 

without the previous sanction of the Registrar or any 
person authorized by hin if any claim due from the 
Rociety to a depositor or financer remains unsatistied 
and no society shall declare or pay dividend in excelle 
of 6 per cant when the total unrealized interest due 
from the members represents double the interests due 

for the year. 
(d ) The registrar or any person authorised by him 

may by goneral or special order direct that a socie 
ty shall not pay is dividend or shall pay dividende 
at a reduced rato so long as it receives loads or 

deposits from non -members . 
(0 ) Provided that in no caso shall a dividend bo paid 
in excess of what is recommended by the 

Mane 
ging Committee . 

( 2) No remuneration or shares of profit shall be payable 
Directors - limit of . 

to the directors by any society in respect of their 
services other than such reimbursement or actual 
out of pocket expenses as incurred by thein in 
connection with their work for the society as may 
be decided upon by the General meeting of the 
society and approved by the Registrar . 

By order 

K. G. Singh, 
Asstt . Secretary (MVT ). to the Govt. of Manipur . 


Renvperation to 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 7, 1955 . 


PART III 
NOTIFICATION. 

Imphal, the 2nd Decomber, 1965 . 
No. J/ 28 /54. - Notification No. F. 12 ( 6).J /II /65 dated 8. 11. 55 issued by the 
Govt. of India , Ministry of Home Affairs the annexure thereti holow is published for 
ganoral informatiun . 

A. K. Ray, 
Chief Socretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


Now Delhi- 2 , the 8th Novonher, 55 
No. F.12 (6 ) -J/ 11/55 . In exercise of the powers confirred by section 2 of the 
Part C States (Laws) Act, 1950) (XXX of 1950 ), the Central Government hereby extends 
to the State of Manipur, the Assam Prohibition of Smoking in Show Hougos Act , 
1961 (Assam Act IX of 1951), as at present in force in the State of A891m subject 
to the following modifications , namely : 

MODIFICATION . 
1. Tbroughout tbe Act, for the words 

“ State Governments the words Chief 

Commissioner shall be substituted . 
2 . For sub - section ( 2 ) of section 1, 

the f » llowing sub -section shall be 
substituted , namely 
" ( -) It extrınds to the whole of 
the State of Manipur ” . 

8. Narayanswamy, 

Deputy Socretary . 
ANNEXURE . 
The Assam Prohibition of Smoking in 
Show llouses Act , 1951 as modified by 

this Notifioation . 

ASSAM ACT IX OF 1951. 
The Assam prohibition of smoking in Show Houses Act , 1951 . 

(Passed by the Assembly ). 
( Received the assent of the Governor on the 10th April , 1951 ). 
Published in the Assam Gazette , dated the 18th April , 1961. 
An Act to prohibit sm king in Cinema halls and other 

show houses in Assam . 
Whereas it is expedient to prohibit smoking in show 

houses in Assam . 


It is hereby enacted as follows : 


Asrama 


l rohibition of Smoking in 


Short title , 
extent & 
Sonment . 


1. ( 1 ) This Act may be called the 

Show Houses, Act , 1951. 


( 2 ) It extends to the whole of tho State of Manipur, 
(3 ) It shall come into force on such date and at such places as the 

Chief Commisssioner may, by notification in the official Gesatte 
appoint. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 7, 195.) . 


Definitior.. 


monas 


Penalty for 
smoking in 
show houses . 


2. In this Aot 
“ Show house " 

any building , tent, or any roofed and 
onclosed structury , used ordinarily or ( ccasionally for the demonstra 
tion or exhibition to the public , whether on payment or otherwisi", of 
cinematogiaphic films, dramatical or musical performances, dances , 
physical feats of human beings or animals , conjuring tricks or sleight: 
of hand, or diy other indoor amusement whatsover, but does not 
include such bu.lding or tent or 

roofed or unclused structure in 
which meirls are served along with the demonstration or exhibition . 
3. Whiocver Bluokes , durinys demon , tration , or exhibition , in HAY 

part of a wh .)w house reserved for the audience or the spootators 
shall be punishable with fine which muy extond to one hundred 
rupees . 
Explanation - For the purpose of this section “ demonstratiou OL 
exhibition " sliall be deemed to commence when the audience or the 
spectators or any part of them have entered the show house tu 
witness a siion thorein aud tu continue until they have loft the 

house after the clone of the show . 
.4 . Any police officer not bel w tbe rank of Sub- Inspector may arrost 

without warrant any person committing in offeuce under section 3 

in his presenco . 
6 . () ) Every person responsible for the winagement of a demonstra 

tion ur exhibition in a shum house shall bring to thi, no ice of the 
audience or sj.colators , by posting notice s prominntly or by exhi 
biting slides , that any per- on smoking during a demonstration or 
exhibition , in any part of such house reserveid for the audience or 
spiciators shall be liable to arrest without warrant and to fine . 
( - ) Whoevir contravels the privisions of sub -section (1) shall be 

punishall with line which iniy extend to two hundred rupees . 
6. The Chief Commissioner or any offiier of ile State Government 

authorised in this behalf by general or special order in writing 
direct that the provisivus of this Act shall not apply in respect 
of any show house or any demonstration or cxihibition therein . 


Power to 
arrest with 
out wurnat. 


Coment 
pioos or 
exhibit 
slide 


Power to 
excludo from 
the opera 
tion of the 
Act . 


Imphal, the 25th November, 1958 . 
No. 7.10 -FD -Order / Pub 55 .-- The following notifica ion i-sued by the Govt . of 
India , Ministry of Inforniation & Broadcasting is published for general information . 

Gopendra Sharma, 

Publicity Officer , Manipur. 
NOTIFICATION 

New Delhi, the 16th November, 1958 . 
S. R. O ....... In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section ( 2 ) of section 3 
of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952 ), the Central Government hereby 
diroots that the film entitled " THE NAKED DAWN ” produond by Universal Inter 
national Films Inc., U.S.A. shall be deemed to be an uacertified film in the whole 
of India . 

(No. 8 /22 /85 - FC ) 

D. Krishna Ayyar , 
Under Secretary to the Govt. of India . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 7 , 1955 . 


Imphal, the 19th November, 1985 . 
No. V - 10 - Order / Pub /55. — The f llowing orders issu d by the Governmin : of India , 
Ministry of Informatio , & Bro:idcasting , New Delhi are republished for general 
information . 

Gendin Sharma , 

Publicity Oflicer , Minipur . 
ORD ER 

New Delhi, the 10th Yovember, 19:55 . 
S.R.O ....... In prirsun ce of cla 186 2 of the direcions issued under the provis ons 
of each of the enactments spr. ified in hoe First schedule to tho Order „ f the G. vorminent 
of India in the Mini-try of Information and Broadcasting No. S.R.O. 945 dited the 25th 
April , 1955 the Central Governm - nt vith previous approval of the Film Advisory 
Bourd , Bombay hereby certifies the film specified in columin 2 of the scheilule hereto 
aonoxed , in all its language versions , to be of the descriition specified against it 
in the corresponding entry of column 6 of the maid su sedul... 

SCHEDULE 


Sourcy of supply 


S. No. Title of the 

Film . 


Name of the 
producer . 


Whether a scientifio film loro 
film jutevard sur educational 
purposes or a film dealing with 
n . W. and current events or 
docum . litary film . 


Indian News 

Review 
No. 369 . 


Government of 
India , Films Di 
vision , Bombay . 


Government of Film deiliar with news and 
India , Films Di currelil ovents . 
vision , Bombay . 

(1 / 16 / 68 - F : App /57) 

D. Krishna Ay yar , 
Under Secretary to the Govt . of India . 


ORDER 

New Dekgu - 2 , the 4th November, 1955 . 
S.R.O ....... In pursuince of clause 2 of the dir ictio :is issue l under th , provisions 
of ench of the enactments specified in the First Sci.dule to t 14 Order of the Gvernment 
of Jadia in the Minist : y of Information and Broadcasting No. S. R. O 945 datud 
the 28th April, 1955 the Central Government with previous a : provid of the film 
Advisory Board , Bombay hereby certifies t ! e film specified in columns 2 of the Schodule 
hereto annexot, in all its lankija te versions , to be of the description specified against 
it in the corresponding entry of column Õ of the said schedule . 

SCHEDULE 


Source of suppiy . 


S. No. Title of the 

filmu . 


Namn of the 

l roducer. 


Whether a svientific lilma or 
film intended for euc: cional 
purposes or a film dealing with 
news and current events or a 

documentary film . 


1 . 


Indian News 

Roview 
No. 368 . 


Govt. of lodia , 
Films Division , 

Bombay . 


Govt, of india , Film dealing with news and 
Films Division , 

Qurrent events . 
Bombay . 

( 1 / 16 /56- F :App / 66 ) 

R. K. Goril , 
Under Secretary to the Govt . of India . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 7 , 1066 . 


PART IV 

Inpbal, the 22nd Novomber, 1935 . 
No. RH 77.51- A 78 .-- The following Pross Note issued by the Gort . of India , 
Ministry of kohabilitation , in connection with Cash Compensation to certain watoge . 
ries Displaced Claim ants is published for general information . 

H. R. Singh , 

Asstt . Secrotiry (GIL ) to the Govt. of Manipur . 
The Central Ministry of Rehabilitation had decided sometime ago to pay cash opto 
a maximuin of Rs.- 8000, - 10 the following categories of displaced persons who bad 
appli d fur compensation unitor the Interim Compensation Scheme before the 31st Octe 
bor, 1964. 

1 . Maintonunoo Allowance grantoos . 
2. Inuja : Os of Hom . 8 and Lufirmuries . 
3 . ( ash dolres outside Homes & lnfirmarios . 
4 . W.dows having verified claims in their own names. 
5 . Other widown with clai: 118 in their own namus ( fresh category ) . 
6 . Minura including the minor cosharor , who is to got cash paymont under 

these orders , 
7 . T.B. Patients . 

6. Disabled Persons ( i.e , blind and crippled ). 
It has now bonn decidod to extend this concession to all displaced claimants of those 
categories wbother thry applied for com ponsstion beforo or after the 31st Oct , 1954 . 

It bus toen further decided to treat cancer pationts on priority basis . Paymont 
will be niare in cash if the claimant himself or his wife or husband or dependent 
son , daughter , father , m ther , grand son or grand daughter is suffering fron canoor, 
On tho productiou of a cortificato from the Civil Surgeon . 


PRESS NOTE . 


Imphal, the 25th November , 1965. 
Subject :-Scholarships for study of English British Council Offer . 
The British Council has offered two scholarships during 1986-7 for study in 
U. K. in the field of teaching English as a foreign language . 
The scholarships aro normally tenable for one hcademic 

year commencing from 
October , 1956 . A full scholarship includes fares and from the V. K., tution fees , 
personal muintonance grant, a grant for books and apparatus of £ 10 per annan 
and approved travelling expences in U. K : 

The curididutes should hiuve at least . first class Master s Degree in English 
and about 3 years teaching experience in the teaching of English in a University 

a recognised training College. The should preferably between 25 and 36 years 


or 


of age . 


Applications in the pres ribol form should reach the Assistant Secy. (Education ) 
to tho Govorument of Manipur by the December 15 , 1955 at the latest. 
[ Forins and other information may be collected from his office during office hour .] 

Gopendra Sharma , 
Publicity Officer , Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 7 , 1955 . 


. 


PRESS NOTE 

Impbal, the 24th November , 1955 . 
Solar Eclips Fair will be held on December 14 , 1975 at Kurukhetra (Diotrict 
Karnal- Punjab ). Persons desirous of attending the fair have to get themselves ino 
oulated against Cholera and have to possess medical certificate from the registered 
Medioal practitioner or a medical officer of a Hospital or a Dispensary to the effect 
that they have been inoculnted against Cholera after the 20th June , 1950 . 

Intending visitors are advised to get ( bolera inoculation and obtain medical 
certificate from the Civil Hospital, Imphal. 

Gopendra Sharma, 
Publicity Officer, Manipur. 


Imphal the 10th Nov. 1956 . 
No. 3986 /ST /DV / 55 - Sealed tendery ary invited for the construction of open - truek 
bodies on 4 Studebakers chassis of 1.75 " inches wheelbase ancor linn to detailed spe 
cifcations which may be obtained from the Officor on Spezial Duty , M , 3. T. Imphal. 
The tenders should reach the undersigned before 14-12-55 . 


S. Palit , 
Officer on Special Duty , Manipur State Transport , 


NOTICE No. 1275 / 11E / 64 DPH . 

Imphal, the 17th Nov. 19:15 . 
Sealjd ten lers are invited for vila 199 striction of 3 numbers of foundation blooko 
in the newly co istructii Power II 130 building for plaoin the 3-100 KW diesel 
generating sets . 

( 2) The estimated cost is Rs. 5,852 /- only . 
( 3 ) An earnest money of R : 117, - only in Treasury Chalan should accompany 

with each tender . 
(4 ) Tenders should be recoivod by the undersigned upto 2 P. M. of 

18th 
DHC . 1955 . 
(6 ) Time required for construction is one mjnth only . 

B. M. Sharma 

Electric Engineer , 
Manipur Hydro Electric Offioe . 


Imphal, the 30th Noveniber 1955 . 
Applications are invited for appointment of 2 graduate Teachers in the Man 
High School in the scale of pity 

Rs. 10 )- 10-131)-EB - 6-190 - E B - 10-250 p . m . to 
teneb Science , Mythematics and /or English . Preferenca will be given to 

can 
didates who have distinctions in these subjects and have & deplomy or previous 
experience in teaching A higher start may be given to at specially qualified 
candidate. Other things being equal, preference will be given to candidates who 
know one or more of the local linguages. Candidates should be propared to appear 
at their own expense at Imphal, it required , for interview . Applications with full 
deteile and copies of deplonnas and certificate and numder of wives living ( if 
married ) sbould reach the Inspector of Schools , Imphil 0.2 or before the 17th 
December 1955 . 

K. Gouro Singh , 
Inspector of Schools , Manipur. 


$ 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 7, 1956 . 


ADVERTISEMENTS. 


Imphal, the 2nd December, 1955. 
1. Applications stating (i) addresses (permanent and temporary ), (ii) nationality , 
( iii ) educational und viber qualifications, (iv ) age, ( v ) 

( iv ) age, ( v ) number and names of local 
Languages known and (vi) imbir of wives living , if married are invited for the 
pont of a Sub - Inspector of Police in the scale of Rs. 100-5-160 (EB )-5-200 /- to reach 
tho undersigned on or before 20.12.55 . The candidates will be required to appear 
bofore the undersi. nied for test-written and /or viva voce at their own expense . 

None need apply who has not passed the I. A. or I. Sc . examination or other 
• xamination of " quivalent standard of a recognised University . The candidates inust 
not be liuss than 5 - 4 in height and 30 " in chest measurement . 

Preference will be given to cadidates belonging to S :heduled Castes or Tribes 
who are bonafide datives of Manipur . 


2. Applications are hereby invited for the pist of a Lower Division (Clerk ) 
Typist in the office of the Inspector General of Police , Manipur. 

The minimum qualifications of a candidate is Matriculition passed . 

Applications addressed to the undersigned stating address, nationality, qualifications , 
pravious experience if any , age , and number of wives living, if married , will be 
recoivent by the undersigned during office hours upto 15.12.53. Candidates who are 
in omloyment should submit their applications through the proper channel. 
of candidatos baving equal qualificati ins, pref rence will be givon to the knowing 
one or moro of the local languages. 

U. O. Malhoutra I.P.S., 
Inspector General of Police, Manipur . 


In case 


implal, the 30th November, 1955 . 
TRAINING OF FEMALE AUXILIARY NURSE -MIDWIVES. 
Applications are invited from female candidates for training 18 Auxiliary Nurse 
Midwives in Training Institution , Civil Hospital Imphal. 

2. The course is for two years . 

3 . The candidates must be unm irried or widows without encumbrances . Minimum 
qualification required at least class VIII passed . Matriculate and I. As. will be very 
highly welcome. 

Age must not be less than 17 years . 

Candidates must be an inhabitant of Manipur and every seleted student will be 
given a monthly stipend of Rs. 50 /- from the very starting of the training and 
thoy should remain at the Hostal provided by the Government during their training . 

Candidates should be prepared to execute an agreement to serve the Govern 
mont of Manipur for a minimum period of 3 years after successful completion of 
training and obtaining State Registration : 

. Application forms and details of terms and conditions can be obtained on 
request from my office , completed application forms together with the relevont cor 
tifontes should reach the above office not later than 18th December, 1963 . 


5 . 


N. B. Roy , 
Oig . Chief Medical Officer, Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 7, 1958 . 


NOTICE 

Imphal, the 2nd December , 1955 . 
No. V.7 Press Pub , 55 . — The Goverament of West Bengal rezerres 30 seats for 
Condensed Diploma Course in Veterinary Scienco and Animal Husbandry for students 
nominated by the Government of Manipur Tripura/ Andaman and Nicober Islands / 
Orissa / S.kkim/The North Eastern Frontier Administration , at the Bengal Veterinary 
College, Calcutta . The course is for two years . The next Diploma Course will start 
by Jan ary , 1858 . 

Candidates seeking admission must be I. Sc. passed of an Indian University wi:h 
Physics , Chemistry and Biology or Physics , Chemistry , Botany and Zoology as sub 
jects or must have recognised equivalent qualifications. Students have to 
uzual Culegs fejs howe er , no capitation fee will be charged . 

Intending candidates for the Condensed Diploina Course may apply to the Assistant 
Secretary in charge of Medical, Veterinary and Transport Departments to the Go 
verument of Manipur upto 14th December , 1935 . 

Gopendra Sharma , 
Publicity Officer, Manipur. 


pay the 


ডিপার্টমেন্ট অফ এগ্রিকালচর, মণিপুর । 


ভারতকী মরু ওইনা কমুনিটি প্রােজেক্ট অমসুং ন্যানেল এক্সটেনসন সাতিশ স্লোক এরিয়াদপ শিংউবা 
থৱাই মাওবা নহারােল নুপা ২৫ অমসু ও ১০ নােম আমেরিকা লে উশিউবী মওং মতো অমসুং শানচিংবা 
তমলুন International Farm youth Exchange programme গ মতু ইয়া মথং চহিগী এপ্রিল অমসুং 
মে থাদা আমেরিকাদা থাগদেরি । 

চাওরাকনা চহি ১৯দগী মংদা লৈবা হৌজিকমক কলেজ তমদ্ৰবা অমসুং ইংরেজি নিংথিনা ঙংবা উৰা মীশিংনা 
দরখাস্থ থাবিরকপা আগনি । চংকদৌরি মীশিংনা আমেরিকাগী লৌউবশিংগী অতিথি ওইনা লৈরুগদবনি অদুগা ঘুঘু 
অদুগা লেবুজা থবক শুমিদুনা থা ৫৬ লেম লৈগনি। আমেরিকা যৌনবা অমসুং মফম অগী হল্লকনবা ভাড়া 
লুপা ২,৫০০ অমসুং মরাই খরচ ওইনবা লুপা ১,১০০ নােম পুথােকচগদবনি । লৈফম চাফমগী খরচাদি তিলােই । 
আমেরিকাগী বিশ্ববিদ্যালয়দা লাইরিক তথা আবােই নগা ভাৰত্তা হল্পকলগা থবক বিবা মারােই । ভারতা ইল্লকলগা 
লৌউশিউবা নহারােলশিংগী শেমগং শাগংপগ থবক্তা মতে পাংবিগবনি । 

দরখাস্বকী ফোর্ম অমসুং অতৈ অকুল্লা মরােল এগ্রিকালচর আফিসগী খবিবা য়াগনি । 


সহি পাবা থােকতরে 
এগ্রিকালচর আফিসার, মনিপুর । 


Imphal, the 5th December, 1955 . 
No. TAX /4,55 . - It is hereby nutified for general information that in aceordance 
with the decision of Govt. of India in the matter the Chief Commissioner is pleased 
to declare that the levy of cycle tax in Manipur sball be abolished with effect from 
the date of publicatio . of this Notice in the Manipur Gozette . 


A. K. Ray , 
Chief Seeretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


Imphal : - Printed and published by ihe Superintendent Government Press C. 202 /7-12-55 . 


सत्यमेव जयते 


Manipur 


Gazette 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 43 


Imphal, Wednesday , December 11, 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


1 


Part 1.- Appointments , Postings, Transiers , Powers , 

Leave and other personill not :cos , 
Part II. - Resolutions, Rogulations, Orders , Notifi 

cations, Rules oic . 


Part jll. - Orders, Nctificytlons, Rules of 

the Government of losin . 
Part IV .-- Advertisements and Notices oto . 


4. to 9 
10 to 13 


1 to + 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 


Impbel, the 6th December, 195.5 . 
No. FA / 101/53— The Chief ( ommissioner is pleased to appoint Shri B. 1. Sharma, 
Personal Assistant to Chief ( ommissioner 

to Chief Commissioner av Asstt. Seoy /Co-ordination in the post 
sanctioned under this Secretariat Order 10. F \/ 101 /63 dated 6. 12. 56 from the date 
of the creation of the post till further orders . 


Imphal, the 6th December , 1955 . 
No FA/2 54.PI. — The Chief Con.m ssion ;r is please i to grant Shri V. C. Malhoutra , 
Inspector General of Police , Manipur earned leave for 21 days and half pay leave 
for 9 days from 19. 8. 50 under the Revised Leave Rules , 1933 as liberalised from 
1. 2. 1949 


A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


PART 1 


NOTIFICATION 


Imphal, the 2nd December , 1955 . 
No J /28 /54 (a ). In excercise of the powers conferred by sub- section ( 3 ) of scotion 
1 of the Asam Prohibition of Sinoking in Show Houses Act, 1951 as extended to 
this State under Notification No. F. 12 (6 ) J / II 65 dated 8. 11. 55 of the Govt. of 
India , Ministry of Home Affairs , Ni w Delhi, the Chief Commissioner of Manipur is 
pleased to decido that the aforesaid Act will coine into force throughout the Sate 
of Manipur with effect from the 1st of Janu..ry , 1 : 56 . 

A. K. Ray, 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


2 


MASIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 14 , 1966 . 


post of 


: 


1 


1 


Imphal, the oth December , 1955 . 
No. FA / 101 :53. — The Chief Commissioner is pleased to create a 

dostt . 
Secretary , Co -ordination in the Minivier Secreta int in the Soale of Rs. 250-250-300 
( con ) -25-400-(EB ) -25-60 ) - (EB ) : 25-60 from the date of issue of these orders till the 
29th of February , 1956 . 

2. The post of Personal * 88 s !ant and Stenographer to Chief Commissinnor would 
be held in abeyance for suci. cime 48 the post of Asstt . Secretary / Co -ordination is 
sanctioned . 

3. The expenditure involved will be dobited to Al( 1) Pay of Officers -- Al, Chief 
Commissioner - A General Administration under Account III - Civil Administratiun . 

A. K. Ray 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 
NOTIFICATION . 

Shillong , ! e 3rd Der ember , 1:55 . 
Suloject :-Draft correction to the Central reasury Rules , Vol. I, first Edition . 

Notification No. TM , 14 : 5 / 37. - An avance copy of the draft correction No. 2 ) 3 , 
to the Ce: tral Govt . Compulition of Tresury Kule , Vul . I, first Edition , 

seci) id 
Reprinu is forwarded her with fur in rition of il trasury and sub - treasury 
officers and Heads of Cential separ.nin for in.ormation and guidancı, 

Draft correction to the Central rovt , C mpilation of Treasury Rules, Vol. I first 
Edition ( Secund Reprint) . 

· 0 . 203 , 
Page 111. Rule 341, 

Insert a Comma ( , ) and hi; wor /18 dipls..atic Rpresentative " of ladin 
after “ Bankor " in line 

line 3 of 

of this 

this rule and als ) delete “ or a Minister of Reiigia 
in the same line , 

11. S. Samuol . 

neputy Accountant General Assam . 
NOTIFICATIONS. 

Dated Shillin , the 13th October. 195.). 
Subject . - Opening of new minor head . 
No. TM . 27 /55 / :36 . - It is herelıy Jotified for the information 

infirmation ind guidance of 
all Treasury and Sub - Tre usury Olicers in Assum , Tripura aud Manipur thut 
the Controller and Auditor General of India conveyed the sanction to the opening 
of a new 

minor head " reasury Ch . ques subordinate to the Major lead " Cheqnes 
and Bills " in section S - Deposits and Advances - Part 1 V - Suspense . 
Snbject :-Draft correction 10 : the Central Govt. compilation of Treasury Rules Vol. 

II. First .dition , Reprint . 
Vo . ( M. 14 /66 /3. - An advar.ce.opy of the drift currectiou to Central Govt , 
compilation of Treasury Rules V.l. Il First Edition Reprint is published below for 
informasjon of all trasury and sub treasury officers and coutral he sds of Departments . 

S. S. Lal, 

Deputy Accountant General ( I ) Assam . 
Draft correction to Central Govt . compilation of Treasury Rules Vol. II 
First Edition Reprint. 

No. 92 . 
Page 44. pendix 8. Schedule A. 

Insert ihe following item in this sohodule . 21 Treasury Charitable 
Endowment Madhya Pradesh . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 14 , 19:15 . 


to 


Subject :-Draft 
Draft correction the Central 

Central Govi. compilation of Treasury Rules 
Vol. II. First Edition . Reprint. 
Notification No. TM . 14/5518?: - Three advance copies of draft corrections to ten 
tral Govt. compilation of Treasury Rulos Vol- II. First Edition , R.print are published 
below for inforın ition of all 

all Treasury and Sub- [ re usu y ) fficers and all Central 
Heads of Departinents. 

8. S. Lal. 
Deputy Account ( I ) , 


on 


Draft correction to Central Govt. compilation of Treasury Rules Vol- II First 
Edition , Reprint. 

Nu . 07 . 
Page 118 T. R. 32 . 

Insert the following as a sub - para to certificate N :) . 1. “ I also certify that the 
amounts account of pay and allowances of tie lass IV Govt . sorvuuts drawn 
1 month / 2 months / mouths pr- viou ; to this date with the exceptions of 

of those 
detailed below of which the totul din iunt huis bout refunded by deduction from 
this bill have been disbursed to the cuvi, servants concerned and their receipts 
taken , 

No. 98 
Page 162 T. R. 30 . 

Insert the following as it sub -pirit to Cr . sifica :e So. . 

“ I also certify that the amounts on rccoun of pvy and ull )wa nces of the Class 
IV Govt. servaits drawn 1 mutl1 / 2 month / 3 months orevious to this duto with 
the exceptions of those rrot siled he!ow of which the total ainouat hies heen rutiinded 
by deduction from this will have ben disbursed to the Govt. Sirvants concerned 
and their receipts taken . 

No. 99 . 
Page 154, TR . 33 . 

Insert the following ty & sub -p : lrt to curlilicite No. ·. 

“ I alvo certify that the amount on Hicount of pay and allowances of the 
( Ilgs IV Govt. servants drawn 1 month / 2 months/ 3 mouths provious to this dato 
with the exceptions of those detailet below up wnich the totisl amount has been 
rofunded by doduction from this bill have been disbursed to tht Govt . servants 
concerned and their riceipts taken . 


Subject Amendments to Chapter IV of the trecutive Instruction contained in 

Part XIV of the Central Govt , compilation of Treasury Rules Vol. I. 
Notification No. TM.11155 / 3.2 . - An advanco copy of the draft correction to the 
Central Govt . ompil + tion of Trea -try Rules Vol. I is published below for infor 
marion of all Treysury and Sub - Treisiiry Oficers and all Central Hoads of 
Departments. 

S. S. Lal, 
Deputy Accountant General ( I) , Assam , 


Amendons to Chapter IV of the Executive Instruction contained in Part XIV 
of the Central Govt. compilation of Tre sury Kule ; Vol- I. 

No. 200 
I. In line 2 of paru 67 , delete the word British 
11. In line 6 f para 68. dolera che w.ru •Brivish and insert a fill stop after 

the word India deleting the remi sing portion of the Sentence . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 14 , 1953. 


I T. 


Substitute the following for iha existing para “ 69 : “ 69. Bank notes issued by the 
Reserve 119.00k will be of The denominational values of two rupics , five 
I UINOPs , ten rupees , une hundred rupees, on thousaud rupecs , five thousand 
rupees and ten thiusaad rupees, unless otherwise directed by the Government 
on the recommendation of the Cintral Board of the Bank . Bank notes and 
currency notes issued by tho Bank are legi] tender throughout India . 

Notes :-B:ink Notes : nd Currency Notes of the denomin :stional values of 
five hundred rupees, one thousand rupees, a id ten thousand 

ripces issu.ed 
prior to 121h Janu : ry , 1946 were demonetired with effect from that date and 

no longer cal tender . Bank Notes of the denominitional values of one 
thousand rupees, five thesand rupees and ten thousand rupees in the A -aka 
Pillar design have been isgned with effect from 1st April, 1954 and are 
legal tender . 


IV . Pura 71: Delete this paragrapb . 
V. In the penultimate line of para 77 

substituto “ Issue Department of the 
Reserve Bank ” for Currency Ofice . 
VI . In line 2 of para 81), for the words n Currency Office substitute an Issue 

Department of the Reserve Bank . 
VII. In the penultimate lino of para 8101 ) substitute I8811e Departmont of tho 

Reserve Bank for Currency Otice . In line 3 of tho Note under this para 

insert in before the word large . 
VIII . Substitute the following for the existing paragraph 81 (4 ). " 81( 4 ). The Reservo 

Bauk bas authorised thu Hund Offices and other offices , branches , sub - bran 
ches and Treasury Pay Oflices of banks acting as ity agents to impound 

furged notes." 
IX . In line 1 of pärit 81(5 ), substii ute an Jague Deptt . of the Reserve Bank 

for a ( uriency Ollice ; and also substitute the words an agency Bunk for the 

Wurd s the Imperiil Bank of India occuring in lines 2 and 3 thercof. 
X. In lines 5 and 6 of para 84 , for the words theollice of issue to which the 

noties are alloyed to belongi substitute the words any office of issue . 
XI. In para E5, substituto number (72 for 71 . 
XII. In line 4 of picra 86 , substitutu the word rupees at the end of the first 

sentence liy coins . 
XIII . In line 9 of para 87, substitute an Issue Department of the Reserve Bank 

for sin Currency Ofici. . In linc II substitute the words agency Banks for 
the words Imperial Bank of India . In line 12 , delete the word Local . 


PART HI 

ORDER 

New Delhi - 2 , the 17th Nov , 1955 . 
S.R.O ............. In pursuance of claus. 2 of th directins issued under the provisions 
of cach of the enactments pecitied in the First Schedule to the Order of the Govt . 
of India in the Ministry of Juformation and Broadcasting No. S.R.O. 945 datod the 
28th April , 1956 the Central Government with previo118 approval of the Film Advisory 
Board , Bombay hereby certifis the films specified in column 2 of the Schedule 
horeto annexed , in all their language versions , to be of th : desrcription specifiod 
against each in the corresponding entry of column 6 of the said schedule. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 14 , 1955 . 


E 


SCHEDULE 
S. No. Titlo of the Nauh (of the Source of supply , Whechas a scientific film or il 
fiiin . p.oducer. 

film intended fur educational 
pui poses or a film dealing with 
News and current events or a 

documentary liliu . 
1 . Indiau Nens Govt. of loua , Govt . if Iudiin , Film dealing with news and 
Review Fims Division , Films Division , 

current events , 
No. 370 Bombay 

Bumubay . 
kreunir Ljoks do 

do 

Documentary film . 
Ahoad . 

( 1 / 16 / 55 - F :App /58 ). 

D. Krishna Ayyar, 
Under Secretary to the Govt . of lodie . 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 1 /197 /55.- Admn : Shri 8. Gopalan , Officer on Special Duty in the Ministry of 
Information , and Broadcasting , is appointed Special Officer , l rt88 and Films, in this 
Ministry with effect from the 1st November , 1955 , until further orders. 

V. Kumer, 
Deputy Secy . to the Govt. of India . 


Imphal, the 25th November , 1956 . 


No. 7.7.Press, Pub , 55.- The following order is republished for general information . 

Gépendra Sharma , 
Publicity Officer, Manipur . 
No. BAP . 1365 /37470 - Poll . 
Home Department Schivalaya , 


ORDER 


Bombay , the 10th November, 1956 . 

PRESS OBJECTIONABLE MATTER ! Act , 1951. 
Whereas a book entitlod " Ajod Chitra 

Chitra printed by Shri V. G. 

Shri V. G. Mehendale 
Prabodh Muriranalaya , 438-1, Suda - bis l eth , Poona 2 , contains objectionable mattor 
an the ground that pictures therein particularly the 9th , 35th , : 2nd and 80tlı pictures 
in the said book aro obscene, within the meaning of clau : e (vi) of sectiun 3 of 
the l ress (Ohjectionable Matter ) Act , 1951 ( LVI of 1951 ) ; 

sind whereas th . Advocate General, Bombay , his granted a certificate under 
notion 11 of the said Act that the said pictures are objectionable matter within 
the meaning of clause ( vi) of section 3 of the said Act ; 
Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by 

conferred by the said section 11, 
the Government of Bombay hereby declares that every copy of the said book shall 
be forfeited to the Government . 

By order and in the name of the Governor 

of Bombay . 

D. S. Joshi, 
Sooretay to Governor . 


0 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEJ BER 14 , 1955 . 


NOTIFICATI () X. 

Imphal, the 6th December, 1955. 
No. J/41/55.- The following votification No. F. 23 / 2/ J 11/55 dated 8.11.55 issued 
by the Govt. of India , Ministry of Home stairs, 

airs, New Delhi is republished for 
general information : 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secrotary to the Gor . uf iuniper. 


New Delhi- 2 , the 8th Novembur , 1935 . 
No. F 23 ;2 : J / II /55. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (3 ) of 
section 1 of the Prisoners (Attendance in Curts ) Act, 1955 (32 of 1955 ), the Centrul 
Government hereby appoints the 1st day of January , 1956 , 13 the day on which 
the said Act sbull come into force . 

S , Narayanswamy, 
Deputy Secretary . 


Imphal, the 6th December , 1955 . 
No C -HDE : 126/54 61..The following Letter No. F.23-16 /64 - B.I. dated the 21.9.55 
roceived from the Secretary to the Govt . of India , Ministry of Education , New Delbi is 
republished for yeneral information . 

L. M. SINGU , 
Asst. Secy. ( Edu ) to the Govt. of Manipur . 


Subject : -Corression to Scheduled Castes/ Tribos in the matter of Education . 
In continua jon of this Ministry s litter No. F.33-11 /54 -A.I dated August , 1955 
on the subjectmentioned ab.ve , I am directed to enclose a statement showing information 
regarding the number of seats reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribe 
in the State-managed and State aided Enyineering , Technical, Medical etc. Institutions. 
Your letter No. C - HDE / 126 :54/25 dated 16-5-55 refers in this connection . 

Statement showing information regarding the number of seats reserved for 
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the State -Nida red and state aided 
Engineering, Technical, Medical etc. , Institutions , 


Name of the Institution . 


Reinarks, 


Total No. of 

seats 
Available , 


Total No. of 
84ats reserved 
for S.C./S.T . 

3 


1 


2 


108 


14 


210 


91.1 


1 


75 


7 


80 


9 


1 . Agricultural ( ollogh and Research Insti 

tute , Coinbatore . 
2 . Shri Vislıyakarma Polytechnic Institu 

te , Phagwara . 
3. A College of Technology, Coimbatore. 
4 . Madras Veterinary College , Madras. 
6. Government Technical College , Hydera 

bart Dn (Lioentinte in Mechanical and 

Electrical Engineering ) . 
8. Government Gla-& & Beed Manufactu 

ring Centre , Kasargod (Madras ) . 
7 . Government Scientific Grass Blowing 

( ontre , Madras . 


190 


12 


15 


15 % 


10 


15 % 


MANIPUR GAZETTE DECEMBER 14 , 1965. 


Name of tho Institution . 


Remark , 


Total No. of 

seats 
Available 

2 


Total No. of 
seats reserved 
for S.C./S.T . 

3 


1 


4 


- 


136 
00 


7 A. Medical College , Calcutta . 
8. Medical College Trivandrum . 

9. Polytechnic , Kalamssery . 
10 . Assim Medical Colleze . Issam . 
ll , Compounders logy attached to Lorry 

White Medical School, Dibrugrah . 


2 (on merit ) . 
5 
3 
4.09 : 19.19 % 


60 


05 


0 ; ) 


80 


70 
30 
00 
105 
240 


35 and 20 % 
respectively . 
8 % 
6 % 
3 
5 
9 
19 


17 . 


18 , 


70 


60 


6 


100 


100) 


8 


121) 


10 


139 


14 


co 


12. ( smania Medical College , Hyderabad (Dn) 
13 Govt. Technical College , Ilyderabad (Dn ) 
1.1 . l omestic Science Training , Hyderabad. 
1.5 . Govt. School of Commerce , Hyderabad . 
16. Govt School of Art, Ilyderabad (Du ) . 

l entral ( rafts institute , lydurabad (Dn ) 
Government School of Music and Dauces , 

Ilyderabait . 
19 . entral Buyn Industrial 

Schooi, llydrabid ( Dn ) 
: 0 . Girls Vocational High 

School, Hyderabad . 
21. Girls Vocational High 

scivo . Sicunderalad . 
by s lec nical High School, 

Secunderabad . 
23. Boys Teclinical Iligh Schoul, 

Warangal 
24. Girls Industrial School, 

Wainnyal. 
25. Boys Industrial Scbool, Vizamalad . 
2ti . Girls Industrial School, 

Nizamabad . 
27. Boys Industrial School, 

Virinal. 
Brys Technical Iligh 

School, Aurangabad . 
29 . Girls ludustrial School, 

Aurangabad . 
30. Bins Industrial Schoul, 

Jalna . 
31. Boys Indus rial Scliool, 

Bhir 
:52 . Boys Industrial School, 

Nanded . 
33. Agri .ulture School, 

Parbhani, 
34. Boys Industrial Scbool, 

Bihar . 
: 95 . -do 

Parlbani. 


58 


4 


20 


2 


40 


3 


120, 


8 


50 


40 


3 


60 


5 


40 


co 


40 


3 


50 
30 


3 
3 


MANIPUR GAZETTE DECEMBER 14 , 1953 . 


Name of the Institution 


Remarks 


Total No. of 

seats 
Availadle . 

2 


Total No. of 
Roats reserved 
for $ .C . / S.T . 

3 


1 


4 


6 


60 
60 
50 


4 


40 


3 


100 


15 % 


80 


15 % 


200 


28 


11 


21 
310) 


15 % . 


300 


-do 


100 


-do 


80 


-do 


48 . 


36 , Boys Industrial School , 

Gulbarga . 
37. Girls -do 
38. Bongozo -jo Riridhur , 
39 . -do 

larimnagar . 
40. College of Technology, 

Peclamedu P. O. Coimbatore 
41. P. S. ( . College of Technology , 

Ppela meder . 
42 . Govt. College at Guindy , 

Cuirubiatore , Anantapur and 

Kakiusda . 
43. Industrial Training Institute , 

Mercara , Coory 

(Ministry of Labour, Govt. of India ). 
44. Central Polytechnic , Madras. 
45. Kerala Polytechnic , 

Kozhikode. 
46 . Talinad Polytechnic , 

Madurai. 
47. kamnitakh Polytechnic , 

Mangalore . 
Arthur Hope Polytechnic , 

Coimbatore . 
49. Andhra Polytechnic , 

Kakinadir 
50. Vuyyuru Polytechnic , 

Vuyyuru . 
51. Ravalisema Polytechic , Bellary . 
5 ?. Cooch Bibar Industrial School, 

W. Bengal . 
53. College of Engineering , Bangalore . 

B , D. T. College of Engineering , 

Davau gera . 
55 . Medical College , Niyxore . 
56 . Medical School, Bangalore.. 
57 . College of Engineering, Oamania 

University 
68 . Engineering College , Jodhpur (Civi! 

Engg . Degree and Diploma) 

Medical College, Agra . 
60 . King George s Medical College, Lucknow . 
61. Govt. Engineering College , Jabalpur. 
62 . Govt. Polytechnic , Nagpur . 
63 . Medical College Nagpur . 
64.. Bihar Institute of Technology , Sindri . 


00 


-do 


110 


-do 


60 
160) 


-do 
15 % 


66 
190 


6 
28 


80 


78 
100 


12 
12 
14 


100 


6 


59 . 


2 
2 


75 
125 
110 
214 
83 


11 


21 
12 


60 


1.3 and 4.2 % 


MANIPUR GAZETTE DECEMBER 14 , 1935 . 


9 


Name of the Institution 


Remarks 


Total No. of 

seats 
Availabies 

2 


Total No. of 
spaty reserved 
rip SCT ST 


72 


25 


15 


- 


169 

2.) 
60 
110 


15 


4 


64 


9 


5,410 


7 % 


1,246 
3,231 


20 % , 
go ! 


30 
32 


4 


160 


30 


2,656 


78 . 


65 Bihar ( ollege of Engineering Putua . 
66 College of Civil Engineen . 

Muziffarpur. 

Ranchi Technical School, luncni. 
68 . lianchi School of finzinerin ikinchi 
39 . I atna Medical College 
70 . Darbhanga Medical College . 
71 . Givt . Engineering Colle: es at Bunut , 

Abmedabad Bombay State . 
72 Gort , Tecbnico Iligh School 

Bombay State . 
73 . Giovt. Medical Coll.gp , Bombai State 
7+. Govt . Technical Institute , Lucknow 

( Engineering ). 
7.1 . Govt. Technical Institute , Jhansi. 
76 . Goit . ( entral Wood Working 

Institute , Allahabad. 
77. Govt. Central Toxtile 

Jnstitute , Kanpur . 
(Chemical Technology of Textile 
Textile Technology ) 
Govt . Central Weaving 

Iostituto , Banaras . 
79. Govt . School of Arts and 

Crafts Lucknow , 
-0 . Govt . Weaving Sohool, 

Mau (Azamgarh ) . 
81. Govt , Polytechnie , 

Tebri Gharwal. 
82. ( ovt . Polytechnic , 

Allahabad . 
83. Massion Leather Working 

Schoul, Rudauli , Dist Bara Banki , 
84 . Sri Gita Ashram Industrial 

Training Institution , Mathuri. 
87. Arya Samaj Tailoring 

School, Lucknow . 
86 , Mahila Shilp Vidyalaya 

Mathura . 
87. Kanya Kala Pathshala , 

Mozadabad 
88. Harijan Ashram , Allahabad 
89. Rajesh Shikp Kala Mandir, 

Kanpur 


90 


90 


73 


10) 


40 


40 


in4 


20 % 


43 


20 % 


25 


4 


40 


96 


40 


10 


4 


40 
36 


30 


100 


10 


10 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 14 , 1965 . 


PART IV 
NOTICE No. 27 / TE OF 1955 . 

Imphal, the 5th December , 1956 . 
No. V. 7 Press/ Pub /-75 - .pplications stating age, home address , educational qua 
lifications, previous experience in teaching ( if any ) and also 

also mumbur of wives if 
married , are invited for the following temporary posts on the pay scales given 
against each of them and will be received by the undersigned upto 2012 December, 
1955 . Other things being equal , preference will be given to the candidate ; knowing 
two or more local languages . 
Candidatos who apply for the posts are required to rattend 

the Office of the 
Inspector of Schools , Maninur on the 22nd December , 1955 at 12 A. M. for interview . 

1 . One temporary post of Hindi teacher at Tamınglong M. E. Schvol on pay 
soale of this. 55-2-76 - EB - 3-90 /- . 

2. One temporary Hindi post at Bongpa M. E. School on pay scale of Rs . 40 
1.50 - EB - 21-65 /- . 


Applications stating ige , uducational qualifications , provious experience and the 
number of living wives , if married , re invited for the tomporary puist of a graduate 
teacher in the Johnstone High School in the scale of pay his . 100-250 , - P. M. plus 
D. A. as admissible under rules . Applications will be received by the undersiged 
during office hours upto the 20th Docember , 1955. Other things being equal, pre 
forence will be given to one who knows one or more local languages. 

K. Gouro Singh , 
Inspector of Schools , Manipur. 


Impbal, the 6th December , 1955 . 
No. Form / 1 / 55 / 1996. - Sealed tenders are invited for the supply of 500 ( five hundred ) 
file boards for the Manipur Secretariat. Tenders will be received loy the mudersigned 
upto 1 P , M. of 2140 December, 1955 and will be opened on the same day a : 3 
P. M. in the presence of all tenderers present. Samply of file boards to be supplied 
may be seen with the permission of the Assistant Secretary (CIU ) in the Secretariat 
during office hours . The successful tonderer sliould supply the materials to the Secre 
tarixt store within 7 days from the date of acceptance of the tender . Supplies are 
liable to rejection if not found suitable . The decision of the Chief Secretary to 
the Govt . of Manipur in this matter will be final. The undersigucd is under no 
obligation to accept the lowest or any tender . The number indicated is approximate 
and may be variod at the discretion of tho undersigned . 

H. R. Singh , 
Asstt . Secretary (GIL ) to the Govt. 

of Manipur. 
NOTICE No. 12 

Impbal, the 1st Decoinber , 1955 . 
ANNUAL PREPARATION OF ELECTORAL ROLLS . 1956 . 

( FINAL PUBLICATION OF ELECTORAL ROLLS ). 
Electoral rolls of the Inner Manipur and the Outer Manipur Parliamentary 
Constituencies are published for general information and may be inspected either 
at the office of the Electoral Registration Officer, Imphal or at the office of the 
8. D. C s in the valley and S. D. C s and S. D. O s in the hills , 

G. H. Singh , 
Electoral Registration Officer, Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 14 , 1955. 


11 


NOTICE. 

Imphal, December ( , 1955 . 
No. DVC / EST/4 /55,179 -- Applications in the priscribed form obtainable at the 
office of the Development Commissioner , Manipur are invited and will be received 
up to 15. 12. 55 for 2 teniporay posts of Social Education Organisers for the pro 
poscd National Extension Service Block in Ukhrul Sub- Division on the scale of pay 
of Rs . 100-10-130 -EB -6-190 - EB - 10-250 / p . m . plus usual dearness illowance . One of 
the posts is rescrved for a female candidate . 

.. Applicants, who must be citizens of India should furnish 2 ( two ) charcter 
certificate one of which inust be countersigned by an ollicer not bolow the rark 
of a Sub Divisional Magistrate in original along with their applications . The appli 
cants should be ilt least graduates of a recognised University . This inży however 
be relaxed in case of thosh applicants with at least 5 years experience of social 
work in a recognise.I institution engagel in social & village reconstruction activities. 
Minimum educational qualification for female cindidates is Intermediate examination 
pas - ed of a recognised University . Matriculates may also be considered provided they 
have at leust 3 years experience of social work . Preference will be given to those 
who know one or more of the local languages . 

3 . Candidates should be prepared to appear for a selection test at Imphal if 
required , at their own expense. 

V. S. Sundaram . 
DEVELOPMENT COMMISSIONER : MANIPUR . 


| Rioney. 


TENDER NOTICE . 
Soaled tenders are invited from registered contractors upto 3-3 ) P.M. on 13.12-55 
and shall be opened on the same day at 4 P.M. for the following works . 
81. Particulars. Approximate Earnest 

Time for 
No. 

cost . 

completion . 
1 . Construction of Andro Road ( loriidge ). 62,791, 

1,570 / 
2 . Du Do (Culvert ). 35,250 / 

885 / 
Detailed plans and specifications can he 

Seen in 

the office of the undersigned 
on any working day within office hours . Tender formas can be had from tbis Office 
on payment of Re 1 !. cuch . 

E. Krishnan , 

Executive Engineer , 
lligh ways Division , P.W.D., Manipur. 


Xotice No. 12 of 1955-56 . 

Imphal, the oth December 1955 . 
Applicati ns stating age, educational qualifications and previous experiences etc. 
are invited for one permanent and two temporary posts of Field Assistants in 
scule of Rs. 41-2-00 (EB )-3-75- with usuial dexrness allowance in the Department 
of Agriculture , Minipur and will be received by the undersigned upto 21st Decem 
ber , 55 . 

The candidates wbo must be lodian Citizent should be at least matriculates ; pre . 
forence will be given to those having some knowledge in agriculture and knowing 

or more of the local languages. The candidates are required to state in their 
applications whether they are married and if so whéther they bave inore than one 
wifi, living and to furnish character certificates from at least two gazetted officers one 
of which should be attested by the Sul- Divisional Officer in whose jurisdiction the 
candidate dites . 

Sdt- . Ilegible . 
Agrioultural Officer Manipur. 


One 


12 


MASIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 14 , 1955 . 


TENDER NOTICE , 

Imphal, the 6th December 1: 155 . 
Sealed tenders are invited for supply of machinerina , tools , iinplo uonts and raw 
materials of value upto the extent of Rs . 4,1100 !. fir il number of « r.uft subjects 
such as spinning , weavin :4 , tailoring , carpentry , puttury and Gardening for the Hasio 
Training Instituto, Thangmciband , Imphal Lists and other particulars of the arti 
cles to be supplied cun le land of the Superintendent of the same Instituto . Deli 
very will have to be effected at the cost of the suppliers . Successful tenderers shall 
depsit 10 of the value as earnest monoy which will be refunde.) after comple 
tion of supply of articles. Tho umerigned will receivo tenders in his office npto 
20th December, 1957. 

Imphal, the 9th Decriber, 1950 . 
Application stating full addre -x , oducational qualifications , age , previous experience , 
if any , and number of wires , if married , are invited for a post of comporary under 
graduato teacher in the Chaoyaima High School in the scale of pay of His . 75-120 
with dearness allowance as admissible iwder the rules. Applications should be sub 
mitted to the undersigned on or before the 20th December, 1955 . Other things . 
being equal, preference will be given to one who knows une or more local languages. 
Tue minimum qualification should be Intermadiate with History as one of his subjuoti . 

K. Guura Singh , 

Inspector of School , Manipur. 
Imphal, the 9th December , 1950 . 
The Chief Commissioner , Manipur has been pleased to approve the setting up 
of an employment Exchange Offico for Ex- Servic emen in Manipur. The District Sol 
diors , Sailors and Airmon s Board , Manipur will function as the Employment Exchange 
in Imphal in addition to their normal fuuction . 

Authority :-Assistant Secretary ( Tribal ) 

No. G - Mily, S /os / dated 1-10-53 . 
Ex - servicemon uro hereby instructed to get themselves registered in the office 
of the District Sildiers Sailors and Airinen s Board , Manipur. 

V. S. Sundaram , 
Deputy Commissionor & Prosident, District 

Soldicrs , Sailors & Airmen s Board , Manipur . 

Imphal, the 9th December , 1965 . 
Applications stating ( 1 ) bime addresa , (2 ) father s name, ( 3 ) age , ( 4 ) educational 
qualifioations, and (5 ) previous experience , if any are invited for 4 posts of Nurse 
in the Medi al Department, Manipur in the scule of Rs. 50-2-70-5-100 /- P. M. and 
will be received by the undersigned on or bef re the 22nd Dec., 1955 . Attestod 
copies of certificates in proof of age and qualifirations uod tuo character certif 
cates from the gazetted officers or respectable gentlemen are also to be furnishod 
with the applications. 

Intending candidatos are to appear for interview on the 23rd December, 1955 
at 10 A. M. in the office of the undersigned along with certificates, testimonials etc. 
in original. 

Preference will be given to candidates knowing one or more local languages . 

Qualification desirable :-qualified Nurses registerable under the Nursing Council 
of India . 


Obiof Modical officar , Manipur. 


Imphal Printed and pubMshed by ine superintendent Government Press C. 207/ 14-18-55. 


Manipur 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 44 - E - 12 


Imphal, Saturday , December 17 , 1955 . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Impbal, the 16th December , 1959 . 
No. FA / 93 /51 .-- In Exercise of the powers conferred by para 3 of the General 
Financial Rules Volume I the Chief Commissioner is pleased to declare the State 
Trading Officer as the Head of the Office of the State Trading Office with effect 
from 5-12-1955 . 

Sd /- H. R. Singh , 

A sgtt. Secretary ( GIL ) 
to the Government of Manipur . 


NOTIFICATION , 

Dated , Imphal, the 22nd November , 1955 , 
No , J/ 15 /54/ b ).-- The following Central Acts as published in the Gazette of India Extraordinary, 
Part II Section I dated 18-10-55 are republished for general information : 

1. The Chartered Accountants Amdt.) Act , 1955 . 
2. The Industrial Disputes ( Banking Companii:6) Decision Act, 1955 . 
: , The prize Competitions Act , 1955 . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt, of Manipur . 


Short titi 


THE CIIARTERED ACCOUNTANTS (AMENDMENT ) 

ACT, 1955 
( 10 of 19.35 ) 

AN 

ICT 
further to amend the Chartered Accountants Ad , 1949 . 
RE it cuacted by Parliament in the Sixth Year of the Republic of India 
a . follows : 

1. This Act may be called the Chartered Accountants (Amendment) Act , 
1953 . 

2. In section 4 of the Chartered Acconntant. Act, 1943), for clause (v ) of Amendment 
sob -rection (1 , the following clause shall be substituted , namely : 

of section 4 
" XV ) any person who has pagred kuch other examination and completed 

each other training without India as is l ecognised by the Central 
Government or the Council as being equivalent to the examination and 

training prescribed for members of the Institate : 
Provided that in the care of any person who is not permanently residing 

in India , the Central Governmont or the Council, 16 the case may be , 
may impose such further conditions as it may doem fit ;" . 


XXXVIII 
( 11949 . 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 17, 1955 . 


1 . 


THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES (BANKING COMPANIES) DECISION ACT , 1955. • 

( 41 [ 15:55 ; 

AN 

ACT 
to proride frog ihe mi difiration of the decision of the Lubour 

Appellate Tribunal , dated their 
28th duy n ; April. 1.951, in arcordance with the recommendation of the Bank Award 
Commission and forming efl ect too this world accordingly . 

kl. it ( nached boy tiplianne in die S1 Tear rotlle kepublic of India 
as follows : 
Thuis 

Short title . 
let 18:44 1.c. called the ladustrial Di- putes (Banking Companies ) 
Deciz ." da , 19.57. 
2. In this Act, unless lie context otherwire requires -- 

L efinitions . 
(:1 ! " :uppellate decirjon " means ilir vecision of the Labour Appellate 

Tribunal, dated the 28th day of April, 195+, in the matter of 
the appreunds filerl befize it is gainst the award of the All - India 

ludustrial Tribunal ( Bank Disputes ), Bombay ; 
( 1 ) " AWANG, " means the award of the All India Industrial Tribunal 

Bank Disputes ) , Bombay , conftiruted by the notification of the 
( invernment 

India the Ministry of Labour No. S.R.O 
33 :1, dated the 3th day of January , 1952 ; 
(c) " Bank Award Commisrion " means the person appointed by the 

Resolution of the Government of India in the Ministiy of Labour 
10. LR . 10U ( 9 )/ 35 , dated the 25th day of February , 1955 , to 
enquiry into and report upon the terms of reference specified in 
the Resolution of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Tabour No , LR . 100 (56 )/ 54 , dated the 17th day of September , 

1:51 ; 
(d ) " modification orders means the order of the Government of India 

in the Ministry of Labour No, S.R.O. 2792 , dated the 2.1th day XLVIII of 
of August, 1954 , modifying the appellate decision under section 1950 . 

li) of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950 . 
Appellate 

The appellate decision shall have effect us if the modifications recom 
subject to 

mended in Chapter XI of the Report of the Bank Award Commission , date 

the 25th day of July , 1955 , had actually beou made therein , and the appellate 
fication re 
commended decision as 60 modified shall be the decision of the Appellate Tribunal within 
by the the meaning of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act , 1950 , and 1950 . 

XLVIII of 
tho award shall have effect accordingly . 


in 


S. 


decision to 
have effect 


the modi. 


Bunk Awa 
rd Commi. 
ssion . 


Dusurion 
of the 
& wurd . 


XLVII1 
of 1950 . 


Modifiog 
tion order 
to have no 
effect CI 
cept in oct 
tai 08şen , 


Power to 
remove di 
fficulties 


1. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , XIV of 1947 
or the Industrial Dixpules Appellate Tribunal) Act , 1950 , the award as nuw 
modified by the decision of the Appellate Tribunal in the manner referred to 
in noction shall reinain in force until the 31nt lay of March , 1933 . 

i). The provisions of the inodification orier shall not have , and shall be 
dcemerl never to have had , any furce rrje 

effect except in so far as any of 
such provisions has become incorporated in the award by ruason of the prio 
virions contained in rcction 3 , 

4. (1 ) If in the opinion of the Contral Government any defliculty or doubt 
har arisen as to the interprrtation of any provision of the 

award as 
modified ly the decision of the Appellatı . Tribunal in the manner referrei to 
in section 3 , it shall filer for decision the in :atter in respect of whioh such 
difficulty or doubt has ariven to a single member of the Labour Appellate 
Tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputos ( Appellato. Tribunal) Act, 
1950 , or to such Industrial Tribunal constituted nader thc Industrial Disputes 
Act , 1947 , as it may , by notification in the Official Gazette , specify in this 
behalf . 

( 2 ) This tribunal to which such matter is referreil whall, after giving the 
partier a reasonable opportunity of being heard , decide such matter and its 
decifion shall be final and binding on all rucn parties . 


Now 


XLVIII of 
1950 
XIV of 
1947 . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 1 , 195 :) . 


3 


THE PRIZE COMPETITIONS Act, 1955 

( 12 of 1:135 ) 


AO 
Act 


to provide for the control and regulation of prize competitions . 
WIBKLAS it is especiall 

to provide for tlie control and regulation of 
prize competitions ; 

AND WRra : tlmo Ligi-latures of the States of Andhra , Bombay , Madras, 
Oriesa , l itar l rudinli , llyileraba , Majhya Bharat , Patiala n.1 Eant Punjab 
States linion and Sillashtra have passed resolutions in terms of clause ( 1) of 
article 252 of the Constitution in relation to the above -mentioned matter and 
matiers Ancillary thereto in 

** Fuch matters are matters enumerated 
in Lixt Il in the Seventh Scheiule to the Constitution ; 

Bow it puncted by Parliament in the Sixth Year of the Republic of India 
26 follows : 


Ho far 


1 . ( 1 ) This Act may be called the Prize Competitions Act , 1955 . 

Short wth , 
( 2 ) It extends to the States of Andhra , Bombay , Madras , Oriøra , Uttar commenco 

beat. 
Pradesb , Hyderabad , Madhya Bharat, Patiala and East Punjab States Union 
and Saurashtra and all Part C States , 
( 3 ) It shall coine into force on Auch 

date 

as the Central Government 
may , by notification in the () fficial Gazette , appoint. 
In this Act , unle - s the context otherwise requirer, -- 

Definidons. 


tation . 


% . 


letters , 


( a ) licensing authority means any officer or authority appointed by 

the State ( ioverninent , by notification in the Official Gazette , for 

the purpose of granting licences under this Aot ; 
( L. ) ‘money includes & cheque , postal-oriler of money -order ; 
( c ) prescribed means prescribed by rules made under this Act ; 
(d ) prize competition means any competition (whether ealled a croks 

word prize competition , a missing.word prize competitivo , a picture 
prize competition or by any other name) in which prizon are offered 

for the solution of any puzzle based upon the building 
Interpre 

up , alrådge 
inent , combination or permutation , of lettors, words or figuros . 
For the purposes of this Art , 
( a ) references to printing shall be construeil as including reference to 
writing and other 

modes of representing or reproducing 
words or figures in a visible form ; und 
ibi documents or other matters shall be deemed to be distribnted if 

they are dixtributed 10 perruns or placow within or outside the 
territories to which 

this Act extcoin and the woril distribution 

shall be construei accordingly . 
Prohibition 

4. No person shall promote or conduct any prize competition or competitions 
of prize 
competitions in which the total value of the prize or prizes (whether in carb or otherwise) to be 
phie ofered offered in any month exceeds come townsand rupees ; and in every prize competition, 
exceeds one the number of entries shall not exceed two thinurand . 
thousand 
rupoes a 
Qonth . 
Licensing of 

5. Subject 10 the provisions of section 4 , no perrou shall proinote or conduet 
prions where any prize competition or competition in which the total value of the prize or prizes 
the prize 

(whether in cash or otherwise ) to be offered in any month does not exceed one 
offered does 

thousand rupees unless he has ultained ju this behalf a licence granted in accordance 
not exceed 
one thousand with the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunucr . 


rupees a 
month . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 17 , 1956 . 


0 . 


Licences for 

!1 ) Every person desiring to obtain a licence referred to in section 5 shall 
prize compe 
titions. make an application in writing to the licensing authority in such form and 

inanner as may be prescribed . 

( 2 ) On the receipt of such application , the licensing authority , after making 
such inquiry as it considera necessary , shall , by order in writing , either grant 
the licence or refuse 10 grant the licence . 

( 3 ) Where the licensing authority refuses to grant a licence it shall record a 
lirief statement of the reasons for such lefural and furnish a copy thereof to the 
applicant. 

( 4 ) The feor (in payment of which the period for which , the conditions subject to 
which , and the form in which , a licence inay be granted shall be such as may be 
prescribed . 
7. Every person who promotes or conducts a prize competition in accordance Promoters 

prize 
with the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder shall keep accounts 

tlona 
relating to such competition and submit to tho licensing authority a statement of 

keep 
Fuch form and at ruch intervals as may be prescribed . 

and submit 
the same 
to the 
licencing 

authority . 
8. ( 1) The licensing authority may , after giving the holder of any licence Power to 

cancel 
under this Act a reasonablo opportunity of boing heard , cancel or suspond the 

suspond 
licence on any one or more of the following grounds , namely : 

licenoes . 


of 
competi 

to 


accounts 


accounts 


or 


(n ) that there has boen a breach of any of the conditions subject to 

which the licence was granted ; 
( b ) that the holder of the licence has contravened 

any 

of the propi 
sions of mection 7 . 
(2 ) Whenever a licence is cancelled or suspended the liconsing authority 
shall record a brief statement of the reasons for such cancellation or suspension 
and furnish a copy thereof to the person whose licence has been cancelled or 
suspended . 

9 . If any person promotes or conducts any prize competition in contra Ponalty for 
vention of the provisions of section or section 5 , he shall be punishable 
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 

three monthr , os 

with ting 
Ane which may extend to one thousand lupocs , or with both . 


promoting 
or conduc 

any 
prize oom 
petition in 
contraver 
tion of the 
provisions 
of sections 
4 and 5 . 


false or 


10. If any person liable ander section 7 to koop accounts or to submit Penalty for 
etatoments of accounts fails to keep accounts or to submit statements of accounts keep and 
as required by that section or keeps arcounts or submits statements of account submit 
which are false and which he either knows or believes to be 

accounts . 

does 
not believe to be true , he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term 
which may extend to one month , or with fine which may extend to five hun . 
dred rupeck , or with both , but nothing contained in this section shall affect 
tho provisions contained in section 8 . 

11 . If any person with a view to the promotion or conduot of any prize Penalty 
competition except in accordance with the provisions of a licence under this offendbe in 
Act or in contravention of the provisions of this Act or in connection with connections 

with prize 
any prize competition promoted or conducted excopt in accordance with such 

competi 
provisiong 

( a ) prints or publishes any ticket , coupon or other document for 

in tbe prizo competition ; or 
(b ) sells or distributes or offers or advertises for sale or distribution , or bas 

in his pobression for the purpose of sale or distribution any tiokot 
coupon or other document for use in the prize competition ; or 


tions . 


VB 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 17 , 1965 . 


Olender 
by Corpo 
nllons . 


( o ) priots , publishes or distributek , or has in his possession for the purpose 
of publication or distribution , 

( any advertisement of the prize competition , or 
( i ) any list (whether womplete or not ) of prize winners in the 

prize competition , or 
(0:0 ) any such matter descriptive of, op rotherwise relating to , the 

prizo competition as is calculated to act as an induremont 
la persons to participate in that prize competition or any 

other prize competition ; or 
( ) brings, cope invites any person to senil , into the torritories to which 

this Act extends , for the purpose of sale or distribution , any ticket, 
Cupon or ort her locuinont for use in , or any advertisement of , tho 

prize competition ; or 
( e) senils , of attempts to send , out of the territories to which this 

Act " xtende any money or valuable thing received in respect of the 
sale or distribution of any ticket, coupon or 

other document for 
1180 in the prize competition ; or 
(f) uses any premises , or OAUNCH or knowingly permits any premises 

to be usel, for purposes connected with the promotion or conduct 

of the prize competition ; or 
( g ) cuures or procurer ut attempts to procure any person tu do any of 

the above - mentioned acts , 
he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term wbich may extend to 
three months , or with fine which way extend to five bundrod rupeos , or with 
both , 

12. ( 1) 1l ang person guilty of an offence under this Act is a company , 
every person who , at the time tho offence was 

compitted , was in charge of, 
and was re- ponsible to , the company , as 

to , the company , as well as the company , shall be deemed 
to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and 
punished accorlingly ; 

Provided that nothing contained in this solnection whall rendler any such 
perron liable to any punishment provided in this Act if he proves that the 
offence was committed without his linowledge or that he exercised all due diligence 
to prevent the commission if such offence . 

( 2 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - section ( 1), where an cffenco 
under this Act has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is 
attribntable 10 gross sieglect on the part of, any director , manager, secretary 
or other vllicer of the compilay , such dircctur , manager, secretary other 
officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to 
be proceeded against and punished accordingly 

Esplanation . - For the purposes of this section , 
( a ) Company ineans a burly corporate and includes a firm or other a650 

ciativu of individuals ; and 
b ) director in relation to a firm means a partner in the firm 
13. The licensing authority may 
( a ) require any perron promoting or conducting A prize competition to authority 

to all for 
produce before it the socounts and other documents kept by sach 

and inspect 
person or to furnish to it Euch other information relating to the accounts 

und docu 
prize competition as it may requiro ; 
( b ) inspect at all reasonable times the accounts and other documents 

kept by such porron . 
14 . 

( 1) It sball be lawful for any police officer nut below the rank of Power of 
sub- inspoctor authorised by the State Government jo this behalf by goneral searoh . 

Ontry and 
or special 

order in writing , 
(a ) to enter, if necessary by force , whether by day or night, with such 

sabintants & N he considers ncccssary , any premises which he har 


Pover ot 
loensing 


ments . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 17, 1955. 


V of 1898 . 


pers 


und 


or 


reanun to susprot are being used for purposes connected with the 
prumotion or conduct of 

any prizu competition in contravention 
of the provisions of this Act ; 
( b ) to search the premises and the persons whom he may tind therein ; 
(c) to take into custody and produce before a inagistrate all such persons 

are concerned or against whom a reasonable complaint has been 
made or credible information has been received or a reasonable suspi. 
cion exists of their having been concerned with the user of such 
premixes for purposes connected with , or with the promotion or conduct 
of, any prize competition in contravention of the provisions of this 
Act ; and 
to seize all things found therein which are intended to be used 
or reasonably suspected to have been used in connection with such 

prize competition . 
( 2 ) All searches under this section shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898 , 
16. Where any now - papor or other publication contains any prize cum Forfeiture 

of newspa 
petition promoted or conducted in contravention of the provisions of this 
Act or except in accordance with the provisions of , licenco under this Act publications 

containing 
any ailvertiseinent in relation thereto , the State Government may , by 

prize com 
notification in the Official Gazette , declare every copy of the newspaper and 

petitions. 
every copy of the pollication containing the prize competition or the adver 

tisement , to be forfeitol to Government. 
Appoals . 

16. Any person nggrieved by the decision of the licensing authority refusing 
to grant a licence or caniculling or fuspending a licence may , within such 
time as may be prescribed , prefer an appeal to the State Guvernment and 
the decision of the State Government on such appeal ball be final, 

17. The licensing authority and any other ollicer acting under this Act 
Licensing 

XLV of 
authority 

shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of 
and otber 

the Indian Penal Code . 
officers to 
be public 
servants . 

18 . No cullst inferior to that of a presidency magistrate or a magistrate 
Jurisdic 

of the firxt class shull try any offenci nder this Act. 

13. No suit , piosecution or other legal porucceiling shall lie against tho 

licensing authority or any other officer of the (tovernment for anything which 
of action 

is in good faith done rir intended to be done under this Act or rules made 
thereunder , 

20 . (1) The State ( invernment. May , by notification in the Official gazotto , 
make rules , and subject to the condition of previous polilication , niake rules for carrying 

out the purposes of this Act . 

( 2 ) In particulur, and withont preju live to the genorality of the foregoing 
power , such rules may provide for all 

of the following matters , 
namoly 

the form and manner of application for a licence and the feos, if 

any, for such licence ; 
(b ) the period for whioh , the conditions subject to which and the 

form ja which , a licenco may be granted ; 
(c) the form in which and the intervals at which statements of accounts 

shall be submitted to the licensing authority ; 
( d ) the time within which an appeal against a decision of the licensing 

authoriiy may preferred to the State ( iovernment ; 
( e ) any other matter which is to be or may be prescribed . 


1860 , 


tion to try 
offencey 


Protection 


takon uns 
der this 
Aot . 


Power to 


( 1 


any 


* 


lopbal s - Printed and published by ihe superintendent Government Preas O. 202 /17-18-35 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


$ 


मायमेव जान 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 45 


Imphal, Wednesday , December 21, 1955 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


1 


Part 1.- Appointments , Postings , Transfers, Powers , 

Leave and other personal notioos, 
Part 11.-- Resolutions, Regulations , Orders, Notifi 

cations, Rules etc. 


Part ] 1.- Orders , Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Noticos oto . 


2 to 3 
3 do 16 


1 to 2 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Ordørs by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 12th November , 1966 . 
No. R /68 /51/ 146. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 133 of the 
A 88am Land and Revenue Regulation 1886 as extended to Manipur, the Chief Commi 
ssioner is pleased to appoint the following officers as Assistant Settlement Officers 
with effect from the dates iudicated against each : 

1 . Shri L. Kipgen , S. D. C. Jiribam from )-10-35 . 
2 . Shri K. Kipgen , S. D. 0. Churachandpur from 10-9-55 . 


Impbal, the 12th November , 1955 . 
No. R /68 /51/ 147. - In exercise of the powers 

powers conferred by Section 137 of tho 
Assam Land and Revenue Regulation 1846 as extended to Manipur , the Chief Commi 
ssioner is pleased to invest the following Assistant Settlement Officers with all the 
powers of a Deputy Commissioner, under Section 69 and 70 of the said Rogulation 
for the period indicated against their names . 

1. Shri L. Kipyen , S , N , C. Jiribam from 1-10-55 till further orders. 

Shri K. Kipyen , S. 1). (). Churaclandpur from 10-9-55 till further orders . 


1. K. Kay, 
Chief Secretary to the Gort . of Manipur. 


PART 1 

Implial, the 15th December, 1935 . 
No. K -CS/ 3 / 55. - In accord ince with the urovisions of Section 3 (a ) of the Manipur 
Fod Grains ( Movement ) Control Order , 1956 , the Chief Commissioner is pleased 
to decide that permits for export of rice to places outside Manipur, sold from stocks 
procured by Government under the scheme of governmental purchase of rice , may 
be issued by the State Trudin s Officcr . 

A. K. Ray , 
Lief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 21, 1988 . 


ORDER 


Imphal, tlie 15th December, 1986 . 
No. TAX /12 /55. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- section (2 ) of Section 
7 of the Assam Sales Tax Act 1947 (Assam Act XVII of 1947) as extended to the 
State of Manipur, the Chief Commissioner is pleased to notify bis intention to amond , 
with effect from the 16th of January , 1950 , Bcl.edule III of the said act by adding 
the following us & new item . 
Description :- Ambar Charkha . 

H. R , Singh , 
Asstt. Secretary (GIL ) 
to the Government of Manipur . 


Imphal, the 13th December, 1965 . 
No. J/ 45 /65.- It is notified for general information that the Luw Commission 
appointed by the India Government to oxamine Central Acts of general application 
and importance and to recommend lines on which they should be ameoded has under 
taken the examination of the following Central Acts . 

1. The Indian Limitation Act, 1909 . 
2. The Indian Contract Act , 1872. 
3. The Specific Relief Act, 1877 . 
4. The Indian Partnership Act, 1932. 
5. The Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. 
6. The Indinn Registration Act, 1908 . 

7. The Sale of Goods Act , 1930 . 
2 . The Commission would welcome the vic:ws and opinions of the individuale 
and bodies interested in the matter as to the lines on which those Acts should be 
rovised of amended . 

3. Private individuals and bodies desiruus of communicating their views in the 
matter may please conimunicate them dirootly to the Commission , 6, Jor Bagh , Now 
Delhi not later than the 31st January, 1956 . 


A. K. Bay , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


PART III 

NOTIFICATION . 

Imphal, the 16th December, 1955 . 
No. J/1 /54. — The following notification issued by the Government of India , Ministry 
of Home Affairs , New Delhi is ro-published for general information : 

“ No. 1/ 11 / 55. - Judl ( R ) dated New Delhi , the 1st Dec., 1966 .- ( Criminal Proceduro 
Amendment ) - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (8 ) of Section 1 
of the Code of Criminal Procedure ( Amendment ) Act , 1956 ( 28 of 1965 ), the 
Central Government bereby appoints the 1st day of January , 1966 , as the date on 
which all the provisions of the said Act shall come into force in the whole of India 
orcopt the State of Jammu and Kashmir." 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Seoretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 21 , 1966 . 


3 


Imphal, the 5th December , 1955 . 
No. V. 7. Press/ Pub /55 / II . - The following document is republished for general 
information . 

Gopendra Sharma, 

Publicity Oficer to the Govt . of Manipur . 
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
MINISTRY OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY , 

IROX & STEEL CONTROL 
33 , Netaji Subhas Road , Caloutta - 1. 
Freight ( Place Extras ) List No. 1 of 1955 

dated the 7th November , 1955 . 
In exercise of the powers oonferred by Sub - olause (1 ) of Clause 11B of the Iron 
and Stoel ( Control of Production had Distribution ) Order, 1941 and with the approval 
of the Contral Goveroment , the Iron and Steel Controller boreby notifies the follow 
ing amendments to the existing Place Extras for the following stations in suporse 
ssion of those prescribed in the late Ministry of Industry and Supply Notification 
No. 1( 1) -1 (146 ) dated 9. 3. 49 publisbed in the Gazette of India Datod 12. 3. 49 as 
annended from time to time ending with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry 
Notification No. SC ( A )2-( 71) 51 dated 24. 11.61 published in the Gazette of India 
dated 29 , 12. 51 under Sorial No. SRO . 2076. The amendment to the existing Place 
extras is due to increase in the Railway freight and declaration of Jamshedpur and 
Burnpore as additional Ports for the purpose of deternining the Plaon Extra . The 
amended Place extras come into force from the 7th November , 1958 . 
Destination 

Place Extra por ton . 
Jiophal. 

Hs.120 

Sd , - P. C. SARKAR 
For Iron and Steel Controller . 


PART IV 


Imphal, the 13th December , 1965 , 
No. RH / 18 /51/72. - The following press note received from the press information 
Bureau Government of India is published for general information . 


( H. R. Singh ), 
Asstt. Seoretary (GIL ) 
to the Government of Manipur . 


PRESS INFORMATION BUREAT 

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA , 


PRESS NOTE . 


MOVABLE EVACUEE PROPERTY LYING WITH CUSTODIANS IN PAKISTAN . 

Lists of porsonal und household goods of displaced persons lying with Custodians 
of Evacuee Property in Sund , Baluchistan and Khairpur State (West Pakistan ) bavo 
been received from the Pakistan Government. The names of the owners and the 
places in which the movables are lying are given below . The individuals concerned 
may write to the Property Field Officer, c/ o High Commissioner for India in 
Pakistan , Karachi. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE DECEMBER 21, 1988. 


L ! ST OF OWNERS . 
DISTRICT SUKKUR :-- Mukhi lliranand C. No. A -875 , Old Sukkur ; Motomal 
Queens Road , Sukkur ; Bishandas N. 8 Dharmasala , Sukkur ; Rulm Singh, Sukkur 
Ramchand , Advocate , Queens Road , Sukkur ; Lakhoomal, C. 8. No. 0-640), Sukkur ; 
Seth Jotumal Awatmal & Others, Sukkur ; l ribhdas 8/0 Shawal Das. 

DISTRICT JACOB A BAD ; Sant Dass ( Singh ), Advocate , Ratan Chand , s, o Topan 
Das ; Bhuku Mal, s /o Mottan Dass ; Sadhu Mal, 8/0 Cbatumal ; Radha Mal, e /o 
Moti Mal ; Gordhan Dass, 8/0 Radho Mal ; Chaman Dans, s /o chlag Mal ; Sagan 
Cband , s /o Chanda Mal ; Paras Ram , Advocate ; Chugga Lal, 8/0 Budhai Ran , 
Chauth Ram , sio Goon Mal ; Motau Dass 8/0 Jiwan Dios ; Votan Mal Salu Mal, 
Changa Lal, slo Bhanda Ram , Nobh Ram , 8/0 Talo al ; Riitan Mal, 8/0 Taro Mal ; 
Gobind Ram , e/ o Thanwar Mal ; Dr. G. N. Sbababi ; Pehlo 

Sbababi ; Pehlo Mal Gowani ; Rura 
Mal, s/ o Tee Mal, Lekhraj Dhandoomal ; Khushmal, s /o Madbumal ; Jugin Oband , 
- B /o Teju Mal ; Kishan , 8/0 Wadhu Kam ; Kisban , s/o Virbhan Dass ; Govind Ram , 

alo Geumal ; Balu Singh , 8/0 Kodu Singh ; Laohmandadas, 8 / Asodu Mal, Gulab 
Mal, 8/0 Jethomal ; Tilumal ; Chetumal ; Narnia dass, s /o Pessumal ; Nandu Mal ; 
Govind Ram , s /o Wadhumal ; Dev Mehash , Murli Mal ; Luni Mal, s /o Atma Ram 
and Dr. Honau Das . 

DISTRICT HYDERABAD : Radhabai , Jawabarbai and Maharaj Kakan Dags Go 
down , Faujdari Lane, Hyderabad . 

DISTRIOT NAWABSHAH : Lekhrajmal of More ; Mangalmal of Gachere ; Mangu 
mal of More ; Thanwardas , Goldsmith of More ; Khomandas ; A1/8 , Hardasmal and 
Assanand , Advocate . 

DISTRICT THATTA : Tek Chand of Thatta ; Luxmi Bai D !o Gangaram of 
Thatta , Parshotam Dass of Thatta , Beroo Mul sio Bamboo Mal of Tbatta ; Jienet 
Mal of Sujewal ; Jetha Bai w / o Jamna Das of Jhimpeer . 
RESTORATION OF SEIZED MOVABLE PROPERTY IN WEST PAKISTAN (CONTD .) 

DISTRICT THARPARKAR . Lila . iiam s/ o Lato Chetumal. 

DISTRICT SHIKARPUR : Girdlari Dass i /o Narain Duss ; Topan Dass 8 /o 
Chain Rai 

DISTRICT DADU : Salejomal of Dado Trluqa Kakar . 
KHAIRPUR STATE 

DISTRICT KHAIRPUR : Mobra Chairoomal ; Lakhimal ; Tikano Suid -Gutb ; 
Moolomal ; Kakoomal ; Naroomal ; Naroomal 
Naroomal ; Naroomal Santoomal ; Poochyati ; 

Santoomal ; Paochyati ; Bhaglima) ; 
Possumal ; Gepaldass ; Devanmal ; Satramadas ; Toonmal ; Homandass ; Chuharmal ; 
Hukumatmal ; Mul Chand Master Gahimal ; Ambumal ; Wulunal ; Sugnomal ; Boolumal : 
Pbagumal ; Jiwatmal ; Jhuwaumal ; Jusbanmal : Bhando Seth l’anjoomal ; Kishram 
Bhambharam Ranipur ; Seth Hollaram Hindu Gambat ; Soch Pamuodası, Hindu Gombat , 
Recjhomal ; Topanmal, Gambat ; Doomal and others . 

BALUCHISTAN 

BALUCAISTAN : Chaina Ram , Office Superintendent of Baluchistan Chrome Com 
pany Ltd., 

DISTRICT BIBI ; Harnansingh ; Leelaram Lakhimal ; Kalyan Singh ; Chuai Lal ; 
Ohanan Dass ; Chuni Lal, Criga Bishen , Lawyer ; Chunilal Gopiobandl Chute Mal , 
Khunohi ( Pandit ) ; Girdbarimal ; Bobarimal ; Narindas ( Hakim ) ; Mohan 

Dar 
( Hakim ) ; Setla Kham Chand ; Seth Jonki Ram ; Rai Sahib Tikarm Dass ; Rale 
Baum ; Buri and Nepamal ; Shaukat Rai. 

Ministry of Robabilitation 
Now Delhi. August, 10 , 1955 . 


; 


1 


MANIPUR GAZETTE DECEMBER 21 , 1955. 


PRESS INFORMATION BUREAU 
GUVERNMENT OF INDIA 

PRESS NOTE . 
MOVABLE EVACUEE PROPERTY LYING WITH CUSTODIANS IN PAKISTAN 

Lists of personal and household goods of displaced persons lying with Custodians 
of Evacuee Property in Punjab ( West Pakistan ) have been received from the Paki 
„ stan Government in pursuance of the implementation of the Movable Property Agree 
ment. The names of the owners and this places in which the inovables are lying 
are given below . The individuals concerned may write to the l roperty Attache, 
Hice of the Dep :rty High Commissioner fur Indii in Pakistan , Laliore . 

LIST OF OWNERY, 
DISTRICT MULTAN ; Chotta Ram s /o Jasa Rim , Multan ; Radha Shiam slo Jana 
Ram , Mandi Burewala , Multan ; Takaya Ram ; Samda Ram Shiv Dayal of Shanti 
Nagar, Teboil Khu owal, Jindo Ram 8 /. Addo Ram , Bungalow No. 28, Cantt. Multan ; 
Pandit Jiwan LI, Multan Cantt. and Radha Kithan , Advocate , Multan , S. Balkrishna 
Bhutani, Cloth Merchant, Multan ; Wali Ram Multan . 

DISTRICT LYALLPUR : Sodhi Arjan Singh 8/0 Sodhi Nathu Singh ; Dewan Chand 
plo Chaman Lal ; Day . Ram , Jawala Singh s /o Ruldu Ram ; Chandar Parkash 8/0 
Devi Dayal Pleaser ; L. Cham ın Dazs 3/0 Bhagwandas Arora ; Dewan Chand s /o Moti 
Ram Arthi ; Ram Kisban , Mul Ram Sunder Dass 8 /o Jawalaram . 

DISTRICT ATTOCK : Karam Chand, H. No, B. VI/62 Cambellpur ; Mangal Sain ; 
Dr. Mal Singh ; . R. B. Soth ; Surdool Singh , Manohar Lal ; Mahavir Singh ; Kartar 
Singh . Jaswant Sing ; Siti Rum ; H. A. Shardba ; Santokh Singh ; Seth Hansraj. 
Advocate ; Tara Chand Amur Das, Shop No. BIV / 59 . 

DISTRICT SARODHA : Ramji Mal s /o Lal Chand ; Shakuri Ram ; Shakuri Lal 
Singh ; Malik Daya Kam . 

DISTRICT MONTGOMERY : Bisbon Singh , Victoria Farins, Hassea Garh ; Nihal 
Chand Rinala Khurd ; Baba Kartar Singh Bedi. 

DISTRICT RAWALPINDI . Barkat Slan , Op/ 256 , Rawalpinili ; l armanand , C/ 270 . 
Rawalpindi. 
Ministry of Robabilitation 
New Delhi, August 12 , 1955 . 


.. 


PRESS INFORMATION BUREAU GOVERNMENT OE INDIA , 

PRESS NOTE . 
DOVABLE EVACUEE PROPERTY LYING WITH CUSTODIANS IN PAKISTAN . 

Lists of personal and household goods of displaced persons lying with Custodians 
of Evacuee Property in Bahawalpur State and N. W.F. P. (West Pakistan ) have 
been received from the Pakistan Government in pursuance of the implementation 
of the Movable l’roperty Agre : nent. The names of the owners and the places in 
which the movables are lying are given below . The individuals concerned may write 
to the Property Attache , Office of the Deputy High Commissioner for India ia 
Pakistan , Lahore , 

LIST OF OWNERS 

DISTRICT RATIIMYAR KHAN , 
Tehsil Liaqutpur : Mukhi Tabo Ram Thakur Dass, Mauza Nadar Wali ; Jonki 
Ram , Mauza Gul Mohd Lar ; Nota . Dass , Cholo Ram ; Shabana Mal, Sukna Got 
Mehrab ; Wisand ) Ram , Sukna Got Mcharab ; Tabo Rani Juma Ram s/ o Aya Mal ; 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 21 , 1955 . 


Tobail Sadiqabad ; Ram Sarup , Bhagwanlal, Sidiqabad ; Gobind Ram , S/ o Diya , 
Parkash , Sadiqabad , Dewarka Dass Bhatia of Abmedpur Luma . 

TEHSIL Rahimyarkhan ; Upendha Krishan Kaul, Rahimyarkhan . 

Tehsil Khanpur ; Rup ( hand , Khanpur, Sewa Raw s /o Chotto Ram , Bhatin , 
Khanpur ; Utam ( hand , Khappur : Hona Kam s/o dal Duss, Bhatia , Khanpur, Galaba 
Mal, Sukna Chuk No. 47/ A , Khanpur ; Tanwara Mal, Maliza Kot Darya ; Subba 
Singh, Chuk No. 211, Khanpur ; Bhola Ram , Mauza Sebaja , Chuk No. 97/ A , Kao 
Ram Sebaja , Chuk No. 97/4 , Teh . Khanpur ; Dhurmo Ma), Mauza Kot Guanin , Bero 
Mal, Mauza Thokal ; Nottir Ram , Mauzı Pari Anna ; Gopa ! Ram Dinayat Ram , .. 
Mauna Payi Anna ; Khindo Ram , Mauz ı Faridabad Tirath Dubs, Mauza Nawain . 
Aryan , Netta Ram , Mauza Tehsil Kbanpur , Khindo Ram , Mauza Payi Anna . 

DISTRICT BAHAWALNAGAR : 

TEHSIL FORTABBAS ( Harunabad ) : Prem ( "hand , Chuk No. 10 ) Post Offion , 
Faqirwali ; Karum Chand , shopkeeper , Chuk No. 162/7 R. Post Office , Faqirwali . 

DISTRICT BAHWALPUR : 

TEHSIL AHMEDPUR EAST : Panu Ram 8/0 Mubarikpur ; Subha Rum ; Panu : 
Ram , Khlu Ram ; Fautto Ram ; Adho Ram ; Shanu Ram ; Dhano Ram ; Karum Chand : 

TEHSIL BAWAWALPUR : Kewal Ram , Behari Lal, Bahawalpur ; Khushi Mal. 
MOVABLE EVACUEE PROPERTY LYING WITH CUSTODIANS IN PAKISTAN 
( CONTD .) 

Mehta Hari Mal, Gold Smith ; Hari ( haud ; Hari Mal ; Utam Chand ; Para Mal 
8/0 Kala Ram . 


N. W. F. P. 


; 


DISTRICT KOHIT : Arjan Dass s /o Jiwan Dass ; Lachman Dass Bhagwan Dass ; 
R. B. Makhan Singh : Atma Ram . 

DISTRICT : Mardan : Harji Mal Kishan Mal of Mardan ; Kam Singh , Natha 
Singh of Mardan ; Kishan Dass of Mardan ; Jiwan Dass of Mardan ; Duni Ram 
of Mardan ; Pesbawri Lal of Mardan ; Sant Ram of Mardan ; Hirjit Mul of Mardan ; 
Kam Lal Madan Lal son of Shinkar Dass of Mardan ; Kanshi Ram of Mardan ; 
Teja Singh of Mardan ; Parma Sand y /o Balbir Singh of Mardan . 

DISTRICT HAZARA : Sant Singh Sabhe and S. Balwant Singh Subhe ; Sber 
Singh , Buffa ; Mast. Maja Devi, Bafla ; Jai Dev , Maugehra ; Nand Ram , Manne 
hra ; Kinili Ram , Mansehra : Bhagat Dun Chand Mansehra ; Sant Ram , Mansuhra ; 
Seth Likhmi Chand, Mausehra ; 

DISTRICT BANNU : Hardayal Singh , tx. Head Clerk Civil Hospital, Bandu 
nuw at Mohalla Krishna Kuti Saojauli ( Simla Hills ) India ; R. S , Kunwar Bhan 
Executive Officer, Bannu Cantonment, 


: 


DISTRICT PESHAWAR : L. Khan Chan , Ex. Head Clerk , Khyber Agenoy ; 
L. Dargai Lal, Ex - Kha88.1dar Clerk , Khyber Agency . 

DISTRICT DERA ISMAIL KHAN : Seth Chatar Sain , Sethi, B. A., LL . B., Advocate 
D. I. Khan ; Girdhari Lal, B. A., LL . B., Advocate , D , I. Khan ; Lila Ram & Chela Ram , 


Ministry of Rebabilitation 
Now Dolbi, August 14 , 1:55. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 21 , 1955 . 


PRES ; NOTES. 

Imphal, the 16th December , 1951. 
No. RH 77 /51- A 112. – The following l’ress notes duted 26-11-55 and 27-11-55 
isqued by the Government of India , Ministry of Rehabilitation on the subject of 
* Payment of Compensation to displaced perso.18 are republished for general information . 

11. R. Singli , 
Asstt . Secretary vill , to the Govt. of Mapipur , 


EARLY PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO WIDOWS. 
In a Presu Note dute 1 July 29 , 1953 it was announced that widows boving verified 
claims in their own names etc. would be paid cash upto a maxirdum of Rs. 8,000/- and 
would be given priority in the matter of payment 

This concession is now being extended to those who became widows subsequent to the 
filing of compensation applications by their bushanda 

Such widowa, whether or not their applications Wafe paude in their own ppmes , will 
be given priority in the matter of the payment of opmpennation . 


EXPLOITATION OF SMALL DISPLACED CLAIMANTS . 
GOVERNMENT NOT TO RECOGNISE SALE AND PURCHASE OF CLAIMS. 

PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO BE EXTENDED . 
The Government of India buvº noticed with como concern that the concession which 
WH8 viven to displaced persons with claims who wished to purchase property in the 
Coms ensation poul , 10 associate other claimants with them to make up the amount of their 
bid , is being abused . 

Soine persons interested in the purchase of pool property have been including those 
claiinants who are in need of ready cash to part with their claims at prices far bolow tho 
amount of compensation payable on such clainis . The object of the Government in per 
mitting claimants to assuci te among themsolves for the purpose of buying property was 
to facilitato both the purch.se and the sale of such property and to enable genuine buyers 
to purchase property against claims. 

To put an end to exploitation , the Government has decided not to rooognisa sale and 
purchase of claims. 

Such sale and purchase of clainis will not be reccpvised . However, if claimants wish 
to combine to purchase property, they would be permitted to do so , but the sale certificate 
will be made out in the name of all those persons and their shares specified in it according 
to the amount contributed loy each of them oither by adjustment of claim or by cash . 

To give immediate relief to small claimants . orders have already insued that those 
claimants wliose claims are for KH . 2,000 or less should be given priority for payment in 
cash . 

Cash payments upto kr. 8,000 will continue to be made to claimants belonging to 
needy categories , such as widowa, grantees of maintenance allowance and displaced 
claimants who are suffering from T.B. or cancer or whose dependants are suffering from 
these diseases, minors, inmates of Homes, receipients of cash doles, etc. 

The range of persons to whom early relief should be given by payment of compon 
eation in cash is being further extended . 

Instructions have been issued that claimants whose verified olaims do not exopod 
Rs . 10,000 and who are to be paid in cash should havo their cases dealth with 
oxpoditiouny. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 21, 1958 . 


It has been decided that to claimants residing in the States of West Bengal, Assam , 
Tripura , Manipur and Jammu & Kashmir where the evacuee preperty law dies not apply . 
paymonts in cash up to hs. 8,00 ) should be made. 

A similar concession is being extended to claimants who have permanently 
sottled in foreign countries . 
The concession of payment it 

cash will also be available 

to women who 
bocame widows subsequent to the filing of claims by their buzbınds . 

Over 70,000 claimants have alrmudy been paid about Rs. 15,00,00,000 in cash , and 
the administrativu machinery has been furthur strengthened so that the pace of 
payment will lie considerably increased . 


PRESS NOTE . 


for a 


Imphal, the 16th December , 1965. 
No. DVC /EST / 4 /55 /212.- Training facilities in the subjects mentioned below are 
avsilable on deputation by the Government of Manipur : 

( a ) Cottage and small scale Industries at the Small Scale Industries Service 

Institute , Calcutta in the session commencing in February, 1966 
duration of six months. 

Minimum qualification requiroi is (i) Degree or Deploma in any branch 
of Engineering or ( ii) Degree in Pure or Applied Physics / Chemistry / Bio 
logy / Business Management. 

trainee , on successful completion of training , will be eligible for 
employment as Block Level Extension Officer (Cottage Industries) in the 
Development Bluoks of this State . He will be required to execute a bond 
to serve for a period of at least 2 years it called upon to do so or refund 
tho stipend amount which may be a maximum of Rs. 100/- per month 

in case be leaves befure oompletion of training or fails in the examination . 
(b)) Match Industry at the Resourcb - Cum -Production -Cum - Training Centre at 

Khadi Pratisthan , SODEPUR , West Bengal for a period of 3 to 4 months . 
Stipend at the rate of Rs. 00 /- per month to Science graduntos and Re. 
40 - to undergraduates may be given to any private person possessing the 
required qualification . 

No employment by the Government is assired . The prospects are that 
the trainee , on returu after completion of the training, will be able to 
start cottage industries for munufacture of matches which can safely compete 
with the Factory at least in quality and in the pace of quick dispusal. 
The trainer will be required to excute a bond to refund the whole amount 
of stipend in case he leaves before the completion of the course or fails 

in the examinution wbich may be b : ld ist the close of the training . 
2. Application stating (1) naine and address, (2 ) Date , place of birth , ( 8) Married 
or not ; if married , number of wives and children , (4 ) Father s name & profession , 
( 5 ) Educational qualification , (6 ) Provious experience and posts held and (7 ) Details 
of experience of social work in rural areas, may be submitted to the undersigned 
on or before December 28 , 1955. Applicants are to attend the selection test at their 
expense , if they are required to . 

V. S. Sundaram , 
Development Commissioner, Manipur, 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 21, 1965. 


4 . 


NO L ICE No. 2 of 1965-56 . 
Sealed tenders in the following form quoting commission per seer for procuroment of 
ganja from the licensed cultivators are invited . Tenders shall 

Tenders shall be superscribed as 
TENDER FOR PROCUREMENT OF GANJA " and will be received by the 
undersigned on or before the 26th December, 1955 , during office bonrs. 

The succes ful tenderer will b : given the monopoly right to purchase ganja from 
lioonood cultivators and sell it to the retail shops of Manipur and Assam . 

The period of license will be from 1-1.56 to 31-1 ?-56 . 

The undersigned is not bound to accept any partii:ular ted:r or the highest or 
any bid . Acceptance of the tendur will be subjec : to the approval of the D. C./ 
Excise , Manipur . 

The rate of cominission for the last year for procurement of ganja per seer was 
Re. 1 /4 /-. 

FURM OF TENDER For PROCUREMENT OF Gaxsa . 
1 . Rate of cominission at which tender is mide : 
2. Name & address of the tenderer 
3. Signature of witness to the tender : -- 

Signature or thumb impression of the tenderer witla date : 
Each tender shall bear a court few of atamp Rs. 5 / - and the result of the tender 
will be announced on the 28th December , 1956 . 

The successful tenderer shall be required , as & condition of his license remaining 
in force, fully and faithfully to perform and abide by the following conditions : 

1. The successful tenderer shall, if so r quired by the Government take over the 
ganja , if any , which may remain on 31-12-53 in the stock of old Procuring Agent 
on payment of the price as inay be determined by the Government. 

2 . He shall have to maintain warehouse at Imphal to the satisfaction 
of the D. C./ Excise . The warehouse shall have one door and shall be secured by 
two lucks, one of the which shall be provided by the Government. The key of the 
look provided by the Government shall remain with the D. C. Excise . The ganja 
shall be stored on a " Machang mal not on the floor , or in buxes . 

3 . He shall purchase ganja as directed by the D.C./Excise with his own money 
uud shall not be allowed to make any sale except on a written authority of the 
D.C./Excise or such other officer H8 may be appointed by bim in this behalf. The 
first class and the second class ganja shall be procured ( Rs. 6 / 12 /• agd Rs. 31 
per seer respectively . All prucurment and deliveries shall be made in the prosedco 
of the Inspector of Excise . As regards clussification in ganja the decisiou of the 
D. C./Excise shall be finul , 

4 . He shall, if so required by the Government purchase the entire quantity of 
ganja in the stock of the licensed growers on the terms ruentioned under clause (3) . 
He shall also procure and store any inferior gavja unfit for human consumption wbich 
may be in the stock of the licensed growers and for such no payment will be made. 

6. Government will havo the right to take over any of the ganja which remains 
in the warehouse on 31-12-56 Un payment of the purohane price . 

6. The procuring agent shall have to keep & security deposit of Rs. 200 /- with 
Goveromunt vhich will be liable to be forefeited in part or whole , ia his failure 
to comply with any of these conditions . 

7. The license will not be transferable nor can it be sublet without the order 
of the D.O./Excixe , Manipur . 

Illegible , 
Inspector of Excise , Manipur. 


1 


..10 .... 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 2 ) , 1988 . 


NOTICES. 
Tendons are iovited from intending persons for the supply of the fillowing article 
and will be received by the undersignod upto 12 noon of 10-1-86 . 

The undersigned is not bound to assign any reas in for not accepting any tender. 
90 Chatais (Phaklon ) Size 30 x 12 -Price per Phaklen 
20 mds (twenty ) of straw 

-Price for the whole quantity 

T. Kalaoband Singh , 
Stato Trading Officer, Manipur . 


Imphal, the 16th December, 1950 . 


11 


Soaled tendon are invited for supply of 150 (one bundred fifty ) maurds of wood 
obarooal for use in the Office of the Deputy Commissioner and his subordinate 
offices . Manipur . The closing date of the tonder is the 22nd December, 1968. The 
tendors will be opened on the 23rd December , 1965 at 10 A. M. by the undersigned 
in provence of the tenderers who are required to be present with samples of char 
coal. The undersignod is under no obligation to socopt the lowest or any tender. 
The quantity of requirement mentioned may be reduoed at the disorotion of the 
undersigned . 

V. S. Sundaram , 
Deputy Commissioner, Manipur, 


Imphal, the 9th December , 195 :). 
Applications stating age, qualifications, experience , full address and number of 
living wives, if married , are invited for it post of teacher in Sokmai Kumbi L. P. 
School in the scale of pay , Rs. 30-1-35 EB - 1-40 - P . M. with D. A. and will be 
received lsy she indersigned on or before 22nd December, 1986 in this office during 
cffice hours . Other things being equal preference will be given to those who 
know 

of local languages. The candidates are to attend the Office 
of the Inspector of Schools , Manipur on 26-12-57 at 10 A. M. for interview , apd 
are required to produce academic certificato in original and a character certificate 
countersigned by Gazetted Officer not below the rank of Magistrata at the time 
of interview . 


one 


or 


more 


Imphal, the 15th Deccniler. 198.1 . 


Applications stating age, loine addross , educational qualifications, provious experience 
and number of living wives ( in case of married man ) are invited for the following 
temporary posts in the Government Tampha -ana Girls High School and will be 
received by the undersigued upto 25th December , 53. Other things being equal, 
preference will be given to candidates knowing one or more local languages . 

One temporary graduate teacher in the scale of pay Rs. 100-10-130 -EB- 6 . 
199 -E3-10-250,-. For this post prolerence will be given to those who have teaching 
deplomas or former experience of te rohing. Women will be preferred for this post . 

2. One temporary office Assistant in the scale of Rs. 40-2-50 -EB - 3-80-EB - 4-100 ; -. 
Minimum qualifications of the candidates for this post will be Matriculate with at. 
lonst 2 years exporience in clerical works or Intormediate paszod . 


1 . 


K. Gouro Singh , 
Inspector of Schools , Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 21, 1956. 


11 


N ) TICE. 


Imphal, the 12th December , 19.36 . 
Applioutions stating ( 1) address permanent or temporary ( 2) futhor s namo 
13) . age attained on 1• 12-05 (4 ) whether married or single ( 5 ) educationul qualification 
(99 previous experiench with testimonials if any and two character certificates from 
Gazetted Oficers are invited for the following posts : -- 


1 . 


Names of the pos s 

No. of posts . 

Pay -Scale . 
Sister Tutors : ........ 

2 

............ 140-6-1907- D . A. 171 % 
Uniform Allowanco ( Ha. 101 / - for 1st year and Rs. 40 /- for the sucoording years . 
Dhobi Allowance @ Rs. 2 /8 /- p . m . 
Mossing Allowance @ Rs . 60 ,- p . m . 


2 . 


3 


Staff Nurses ........ 

.50-2-711-5-100 D. A. 20 % 

plus Ro. 6 /- p . m . 
Uniform Allowance @ Rs. 78 /- for 1st your & R. 85/ • for succeedinge poen . 

bobi Allowance , Rs . 2. p . 111. 
Blussing Allowance ( Rs . 30 /- p . m . 


Applications will be reieived by the undersigned on or before 26th December, 
5i during office hours . Preference will given to B. Sc. (Nursing) with experience 
for Sister Tutors for the post of Sister Tutors ( for training students for 
liary Nurse & Midwife training ) and minimum qualification for the post of Staff 
Narses is at least passed Matriculates with Senior certificated Nurse and with post 
graduats training in sister tutors course . 

Nanda Babu Ray , 
Offy . ( hief Medioal Officer , Manipur. 


AVERTISEMENT. 

Imphal, the 16th Decimber, 1955 . 
No. K -CS/ 32 55 .-- Auction will be held daily , except on holidays and Sundays, from 
the 19th instant till further notice by the State Trading Officer of the Manipur 
Government at his office at : P. X. for sale of and export of rice from the stocks 
procured by the Manipur Ciovernment. The exact quantity to be put up for sale 
will be announced by the State Trading Officer every day at the auction . The State 
Trading Officer is not bound to accopt the lignest tender ; no bids less than Rs.10 / 
per maund will however be entertained . 

All Bidders puust deposit an amount of Rs . 500 , - each before they can be allowed 
to participate in the auction . Bids will be confirmed or rejeoted by the State Trading 
Otficer on the day of the auction and sucessful bidders inust deposit the entire 
bid money within 24 hours aud clear the stocks within 3 days of confirmation of 
the sale . Further details may be obtained from the State Trading Officer. 


L. Manihar Singh , 
Asstt. Secretary (Edn .) to 
the Government of Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 21, 1955 . 


NOTICE . 


Shillong , the 13th Docember, 1955 . 
Applications are invited from 

invited from condidates desirous of appearing at nhe Inititiul 
Recruitment Examination for reoruitment to temporary posts of Divisiooal Accoun 
tants for N. E. F. A. and Manipur. Examinatian will be held in January , 1956 in 
the office of the bccountant General, Assam , 8HILLONG . The actual dates of Examior 
mina tion will be intimated to each upproved candidate separately . 

2. The Examination is open to : 

( i) Upper Division Clerks of the Office of the Accountant General , Assam , who 
have rendered more than two years service as auditors in W. A. D. 

( ii) P. W. D. Accounts clerks who havo rendered more than two years service 
" HB accounts Clerks in the P. W. D. Offices in N. E. F. A. and Manipur . 

( iii) Direct Rooruits. 


3. The minimum eduoational qualification in rospect of “ direct rooruits will 
be University Degree in the Second Division (i. e . B. A./B . Sc . Distinction ). In the 
caso of B.Com . candidates they must have secured at least 50 % marks in the aggregato . 
In thu Oano of cindidates from the sourcos 2 (i) & 2 ( ii ) above, the minimum odo 
cational qualification will be & University degroo . 


4. Age should not excod 24 years ( 29 yoars in tho case of scheduled custos and 
schoduled tribes candidates ) on 1st Januury, 1986. In the case of Departmental csodi 
detes, age limit will be relaxed upto 33 years on the date inentioned above . 

8. Indending candidates will be required to pay into the treasury an Esamination 
foo of Hs. 7 /8 /- ( Re . 1/14/ - in the case of scholuled caste and scheduled tribos candidatos ) 
and attach & duplicate copy of the cbalun with the application . 

6. Porsons selected on the result of the Examination will be required to undergo 
& course of training in the Audit and P.W.D. Offices for two years . They will be 
required to pass a Departmental Examination called Divisional Test according to the 
rulos of that Examination before they are appointed as Divisional Accountants in the 

ale of pay of Rs. 100/- (during probation ) - 130-10-250 - EB - 15-355 /- plus usual dearness 
and other allowances as may be sanctioned from time to time. During the period 
of training the probationer Divisional Accountants will be allowed a pay of Rs. 100/ 
per month only plus u4ual allowances . 

7. The probable number oť vacancies is 12 . 

8. The direct regruits will be eligible for cyntirinativu ugainst one-third of the 
permanent vacancies. 


9. The oadre of Divisional Accountants is likely to be tranferred from the control of 
the Accountant General to that of the Administrative Authorities concerned , when the 
Divisional Accountants will havo to go tor to the Administration / State Govt. on a 
funotional basis witbout being given any option in this renpoot . 

10. The last date for receiving application is 24th December, 1965. Detailed infor 
mation regarding subjects, syllabus and other particulars regarding the Examination and 
“ Application Form ” may be obtained from the Office of the Accountant General, Assang . 
(W. M. Section ). 

V. N. Singh 
Accountant General, Anam . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 21 , 


1066 . 


13 


One 


Or 


Notico No. 28 / TE of 55 . 
Appliontions stating age, home addres , educational qualification , previous experi 
enco ( if any) and also the number of living wives if narriod are invited for the 
following post and will be received by the undersigned upto 28th December , 1955 . 
Other things being equal preference will be given to candidates knowing 
more local languages. 

Candidates who apply for the post are also required to attend the offico vf the 
Inspector of Schools , Manipur on the 30th December, 1965 at 12 A. M. for interview . 

One temporary post of Pandit Pay scale of Bus 40-1-50 
at Kaugwai U. P. School. EB- .| -65 

P. M. 

K. Gouro Singh , 
Inspector of Schools, Manipur . 


Notice No. 14 . 

Imphal, the 13th Duoen bor , 1956 . 
Sealed tenders for construction of poultry runs in the Governinent Ukhrul Farm 
are invited and will be received upto the 29th December , 1955. The tenders will 
ho opened on the next day , the 30th December, at 11 a . m . in the presence of 
the tenderers. Plans, drawing and specifications and other particulars may be hud 
from the office of the Agricultural Officor , Manipur during office hours . The succes 
ful tenderer shall have to deposit an earnest money of Rs. 100 /- and the work are 
to be completed within one month froin the date of the acceptance of the tendor. 

L. U. Ringb , 
Agricultural Officer , Manipur . 


No. D / PP /4 /55- It is hereby Dutified that henceforth no fees for Indo - Pakistan 
Pussports will be received in cash . All intending applicants fur Indo - Pakistan l ass 
ports are requested to produce Treasury Challan which they can obtain from the 
Impbul Treasury by croditing the amount under the hoad " XLVI- Misc- Naturalisa 
tion passport and copy right fees (Central). This will also cover Pakistan nationals 
applying for extension of stay in Janipur . 

By order , 

T. Kipgen , 

Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 
Notice No. IS :58/53 

Dited , Impla ), 13-12-55. 
Applications stating age, home address, educational qualificalions, previous experience 
and the number of living wives , if married , are invited for the following posts and will 
be received by the undersigned on or before 30th December, 1958. Other things being 
equal, preference will be given to candidatus who know one or more local languages. 

Candidates are required to attend the cffice of the Inspector of Schcols , Manipur 
on 31st Decorubor, 1951 at 10 A.M. with neo 88ary certificates for luterview . 

None need apply who is not Cl.18 VIII pa : 8 , d . 


1 . One port of teacher in Sempangjol S. P. School. 
2. One post of teacher in Bongli L. P. Sohool. 

In the scale of Ho 30-1-35 

(EB ) -1-41) /- P. M. with D. A. 
3. Quo post of teacher in Chingmoi Government 
L. I . School. 

K. Gouro Singh , 
Inspector of Schools , Manipur, 


MANIPUR GAZETTE DECEMBER 21, 1965 . 


T 


Imphal, the 20th December 1966 . 
No. SR / 10 /55 /144 . 

Tho Chiof Commissioner is pleased to declare the following days to be public 
holidays in Manipur during 1956 . 

By order etc. 

H. R. Stogli, 
Assistant Secretary (GIL ) 
to the Government of Manipur . 


1 


1 


1 


1 


• 


. 


ri 


: 
: 


1 


LIST OF HOLIDAYS FOR THE YEAR 1956 
1. Uttarayan Sankranti 14th January , Saturday 

1 day . 
2. Republic Day 

26th January , Thursday 
3. Skri Panchami 

I oth February , 
4. noljntra 

26tb to 8th March , 
Monday to Wednesday 

3 days. 
6. Good Friday 30th March , Friday 

day . 
6. Bijoy Govindajee s Halangkar 31st March , Saturday 
7. Baruni 

9th April, Monday 
8. Clieirao ba 

13th April, Friday 
9. Manipuri New Fear s day 14th Saturday 
10. Akshaya Tritiya 
11 . Budha Purnima 

24th May , Thursday 
12. Ratha Jutra 
13. Independence Dy 

16th August , Wednesday 
14 . l unar Jatra 
18. Jhulon Jatra 
16 . Janmastami 
17. Radhzstani 
18 . Heikru Hitongba 

Offices & Courts : 
will remain open 
from 10 A. M. to . 

I l . M. 
19 . Malıntrua (iandhi s birthdny 21: d October Tuesday 

1 day. 
20). Tarpon Loiba 
21. Durirn Pujis 

4 days . 
22 . Lakshmi Puja 

day . 
23. Dowali (Dipanwita ) 
24 . Gobardhan Puja 
25. Bhratri Dwitiya 
26 . Gostbastami 

1 
l alace Kirton 
28. Christruas Day 

26th , l ecember , Tuesday 
29 . Id - Ul- Fitr 

for 
30 . Id - Uz -Zuha 

Muslims 
31. Mubarram 
32. Fatiha Dwazdah ım 

1 
N. B .- ( 1) Datos noi given here will be notilie: later on . 

( 2 ) Sundays are publio holidava . 
( 3 ) New Year s Day ( 1st January ) , Shiva -Ratri (11th March ) and Shilhonbe ( 16th 

April) fall on Sundays . 
( + ) 30th June, 1966 and 31st December , 1956 will be observed 

28 Bank 
holidays on account of half - yearly , ind yoarly closing of Bank acoounts . 
These bolidays are meant for Baoks only and not for other Government 
Offious do Courts including non - bank treasuries . 


... 


1 


11 


11 


i 
; 


--- 


... 


... 


27 . 


1 


I day 


1 


only . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 21 , 1956. 


it 


NOTICE . 
Applications in candid ite s own handwriting stating uge, educational qumlification , 
full address , previous experience, the number of wives living if married , are invited for 
the posts of sonia temporary posts of enumerators and copyists for the period of 2 
( two) months in the scale of Hs 24/- P. M. plus usual D. A. as admissible under 
the rules and will be recrived in the office of the undersigned at the Secretariat 
building upto 3ist Decamber. 1965. The candidates will be required to appear before 
the Chief Electoral Officer on 5th Jun ., 1956 ut 10 A. M. for interviow . 

V. S. Sundarum , 

Chief Eloctoral Officer, Manipur . 
নােলিশ । 

নং STO /ii/ 8ং ১ • ১২৫৫ । 
পুজা খঙহরি মানুদি মণিপুর গভর্ণমেন্টী প্রেস নােট নং ১০ তাং ২০১০৫৫ ইংগী মতুং ইয়া চনি 
ভিসের খাগী তাং ১৫ দগী হোন। ষ্টেট ট্রেডিং ফিসনা পয়লা নম্বরগী চেং সেবাশিংগী ইন্দালনা লৈ হেগনি । 
দেশী মমলদি বােড় মাওনা মনদা নুপা ৯ ( মাপল) নি । হাৱা ভাড়া , গাড়ীদগী থাং , ওন অমসুং গুদাম - 
বিনৰ ষ্টো তৌৰগী) খরচ চেং বা মীনা পীগৰনি । বােড়াদি অহন ওইগৰনি অং বােড়। চে 
মন অনিমখাই হাপানি । চেং রিবা মী খুদিংমা “লেই মীনি অমসুং ভরি চেং অদু মশা না বা 
সৌদী থােক সেনি " হায়না অই চে অল (ভিক্লাসেন অমা ) খুনগী থাবা মা স্বাক্ষী অলি আগুন । শহী 
তো পৰিগদৰনি । 

টেট ট্রেডিং অফিসন। লৌগদ চেং নমুনা সেম্পল ) আফিন্তা থমরে। চেং জীগে হাবা লোক সী মন 
আফিল্ডা লাকু সেম্পল য়েংবিরগদৰনি । নাগুম্বা মীনা সেম্পলদগী না চেং পুবিরকলৰদি চেং সৌজৱেই (রিতেই 
তেজগনি) । 

চেং লৌৰ মৰেদি কৈথেলগী ওইনা মখদা পীজরি তারিখ অনুং শিংগী মতুং বাজায় বাজান কোরিয়া 
খুলশিংজা লৈবা নৌবাশিংগী অমুক পুং ১০দ নুংথিল পুং অনি ফাও লেজগনি । নােয়দা রি বি বাণি 
মণিং অদুদগী হেরা পুবিষপা অদুগ য়ী অফিস পুজৱেই , হেন কে মখে লেজরোই । CBE जीवा 
মীনা ষ্টেট ঐজি আফিসকী কোম্বেং কামদা অকোন অহন নাইনা লেংদুনা লৈগিদবনি । 

ম অমুক লৌমাইদা অতোপ্পা নােটশ অম অমুক তেমনি । 
তারিখ ৰাগামমিং 

बनपिर 
১০:১২:৫৫ 

লমলে k 
হেমখে 

১৩ । 
পাজৈ 


১-১২-?? 


मयमा 
আইপােকপী 


১১-১২-৫৫ 


কোষ 
ইলিং 
ৱামে 
परथी शारदारगरवार 
আইরিপােক 


২০-১২-৫৫ 


১৩৫ 


নিল 


২২-১২-৫৫ 


১০০ 


{ 


২২-৫৫ 


লিলো 
খৌবাল 
রজী 
হৈরো 
খেলোম 
কী 
পলেন 
হৈম্বােইব্যে 
ময়াংইচ্ছাল 
হিয়া 
বালোই 


১০ , 


২০১২-৫ 


১৮০০ 


Manipur 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 46 - E - 13 


Imphal, Tuesday , December 27 , 1958 . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR , 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

NOTIFICATION . 

Imphal, the 26th December , 1966 . 
No. J / 40 55 ... The following draft of certai , ruler which tbe Governmont 
of Manipur proposes to make in exorcina of the powers conferred by section 
20 of the priza ( ciripetitions Acr, 1955 (42 of 1955 ) is hereby published 
for the information of persons likely to be affected thereby and notioe is 
hereby given that the draft will be taken into onsideration on or after the 
13th January , 19 : 6 . 

The Govt. of Manipnr shall consider an objection or suggestion wbich 
may be received by it from a ly person with respect to the darft before 
the date so specified . 


Short title , 


Definitions . 


2 . 


(43 of 1055 ) 


Porn ) und 
magner of 
the appliat 
aution for 
licenou . 


ог 


Form and 
particulars 
of linenao , 


A 


DRAFT RULES 
1 . These rules may be culled Manipur Prize Competitions Rules , 1963. 

In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, 
(a ) " Form " means firm appendent to these rules ; 

* Liceno.. " means it licence grunted undor section 6.of the Act ; 

and 
(c ) " Tho Acr” mrans the Prize Competitions Act , 1955. 
3. Every apilication for a licence iridon sub -section ( 1) of section 6 of 
the Act shall be in Forin A and shall be either submitted personally , 
sent by rogistered post , by the applic ınt 10 the licensing authority . 

( 1) Every lice.ice skill lve in Form Bud shall be subject to the 
conditions and rostrictions therein Seoitiid and to the provisions of the Act 
and these rules. 

( 2) Every -uch licence shall be effective throughout the entire State . 
5. Every licence shall be va id initially for a perid of one year from the date 
of its issue and shall lapse on the xpiry of thau period ; but the licensing author 
rity may on application madia by the ſicensor in this behalt in Form A before the 
expiry of the period of validity , of the licence, re ! e « it from time to time for 
much further piriod not excer :ding one year in each case as may be decided by 
that authority in its discretion . 
6. (1 ) l he fee for Hiery licenom shill be . 

( a ) ks. 25 /- where an entry fee is charged in respect of a prize 

competition ; and 
(b ) Ks. 10 /- where no such entry fee is charged 
(2 ) Such fee shall be paid by the applicant into Government treasury 

or sub - treasury or in the Reserve Bank of India (in Government 
account or paid in cash or sent by money order to the lioensing 
authority . 


Period of 
validity of 
licence and 
itu renewal . 


Food for 
grant ara 
zobowel of 
Higanoo . 


MANIPUR GAZETI E , DECEMBER 7, 1955. 


. 


LAmitation 
for appeals , 


Dit or 
iramator of 
lioonor . 


Low of 
Hodnoo , 


Produotion 
of loopdo on 


( 3 ) Tlie fre for this reuew : l of a licence shall be one- hall of the fee : 

levia ble for the grait if the original licence . 
( ) No application for the grant or rin :val of a lioence shall be enter 
tained unless the amount of the fee in each case is paid or sent as 

the 
aforesaid provided that if the licence is not granted or renowed , 

applicant stall be entitled to il refund of the fee paid by him . 
7. Every apeal to the Stilu Guvernment under section 16 of the Act shall 
be preferred within a period of thirty days from the date of the decision of the 
licensing authority , 

8 . No li ensee shall sell or otherwise transfer the licence granted to him 
or enter into any pa tnership with any person for the purpose of promoting or 
conduoting a prize oumpetitiou or ļırize competitions under such licence. 

9 . When a licence is lost or destroyed , a duplioate copy thereof may be fur- 
nished to the licensee on payment of a fee of 

(a ) Rs. 10 /- for a licence where an entry fee is lovied in the prize compe 

tition ; and 
(b ) Rs. - for a licence wliure no such entry fee is levied . 
10. Every person acting under or holding a licence shall produce the 
same whenever called upon to do so by the licensing authority or by an 

officer duly imponered by the licensing authority in this behalf . 
Watty foc . 11. ( 1 ) Where an entry fee is charged in respect of a prize competi 

tion , such fee shall be paid in money only and not in any other manner . 

( 2 ) The maximum amount of an entry fee shall not exceed Re. 17 
where the total value of the prize or prizes to be ođered is rupees one 
thousand but not less than rupee : five hundred ; and in all other 
the maximum amount of an entry fie sball be at the following, ratis, namley 

( a ) **: - /8 /• where the total valu :- of the prize or prizes to be offered 

is less thau rupees five hundred but not less than rupa.s two 

hunrired a..d fifty ; and 
( 1» ) As. : 41. where the total value of the prize or prizes to be offrred 

is less than rupees two hundred and fifty , 

12. Every licen ee sall maintain in respect of each prize competition 
of Register for which is licence: has been 

Printed å regi-tre in Frm C and shall , 
for the parpo - rf ensuring that not more than two thousaud ontries are 
received for sc utiuy for each such ompetition , take the following steps that 
is to say, sball 

( a ) arrange to receive all the entries only at the place of business 

mentioned in the licenre ; 
(b ) meriaily number the entries : ccording to their order of receipt ; 
( c ) post the rult vant pili ticulory of such entries in the regisler in 

Forn Cay and when the entries & ! A raveived and in any case 

ont later than the close of busin.88 on each day ; And 
(d ) acoep s for scrutiny only the first two thousand for scrutiny 

only the first two thousand entries as they appear in the register 
in Form C and igorto the rema uin , entries , if any , in OHNER 
where 10 entry fee in charged and r: fund the entry fee received 
in respect of the entries in exces of the first two 

first two thousand 
to the respective senders thereof in cases where an entry fee 
has been charged after deducting the cost (if any) of refund . 


Casas 


Valutanarion 


sity 


MANIPUR GAZ : TTE DE EMIER 27, 1963 . 


3 


Ceaping 
boos OE 
uooounta , 


1 


13. The accounts ri-furred to in section 7 of the set salt b.maintained 
according to the following provisions, namely : 

( a ) there sha : 1 be a cash book in Form D and all transnotions 

relating to each prize competition shall be entered in the appropri 

Ate sections of the cólsh bork ; 
(b ) the cash book , both on the receipt sid : and on the exponditure sido , 

shall be written up day lug day and at the end of each day s traa 
suotimn the total of receipt anii hxpenditure for the day and the 
progressive total receipts and exprndi: ure since the crimmencement 
of the prize competition to which the entries relate, shall be struok ; 

and 
(c ) at the one of each prize competition an abstract of the total 

receipts and expenditure on account thereof, including the expen 
diture on the award of prizes shall be oxbibited in the cash hook 
itself ; and where prizes are awarded to competitors who have 
submitted froe entry coupons, the fact shall be clearly stated and 
full particulars of such suocessful competitors shall be clearly and 

separately shown in the caslı book . 
14. · Every licenses shall , within 15 days of the close of each month , submit 
to the licensing authority a return in Form E of the total sum received and the 
total expenditure incurred by ruch licensee during the month . 

18 . Every licensed shall make available for the inspection of the licen 
sing authority or such officers as that authority may nominate in this brball , 
at all rousonable time and on demand , the regit.r in Horin C , the cash 
book in Form D and all vouchers and such other papers as may have a 
bearing on the conduct of the prize competition . 

16 . ( 1 ) As soon as may be after a licence has bei n granted , the licensing 
authority rull constitute a committee for the purpose of sciutinising the 
the conduct and result of ench prize competition 

competition that may be promoted 
under the licence . 

( 2 ) The committer shall consist of ir chair a i who shall to the licensing 
authority or any officer of the state Gorern , ant . nóminated by the licensing 
authority and not more than five other member of whom tho 
shall be one and the rest; shall be non -officials o sanding in the local area 
concerned , to be appointed by the licensing authority . 


Furnishing 

batetant 
of nooountu . 


Production 
of register 
aad omah 
hook for 
inspection , 


Committer 

scruti 
niso pris 
computi . 
tous , 


license 


FORM 


( See Rule : 3 ) 
Application for the rant or ponowl of Licence un ler the Prizo Competitions 
Act , 19.5 .) ( 4 of 1955 ) 

The replies to be writt: n iu this columa, 
1 . Full name and address of the 

applicant . 
2 . Place of business 

Partioulars of the Prize Competition (or 
competiiion ) of which licencp / renewal 
of licence is NPLlied for, including the 
entry toe ( if any ) to bo chirged , the 
value of this prize or prizes to be vffered 
and how the @trius will be sorutinised 
and the prize winning competitors 
selooted 


MAXIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 27 , 1988 . 


Werther the applicant had applied for at 

ljoslitu befine and , if su with what results . 
8. Any further particulars whicb the appli. 

( ant my like to turnish . 
Date of appliouion . 

Signature of the applicant . 
Explanation : The applicant shall fumish with the application a specimen entry 

form all any other literature proposed to be issued in connections 
with the prize competition . 


.... , Tuluka , ... 


..19 ... 


FORM B 

recline ) 
Licence for the primo: son oil caluct of the Prize Competition ( or Competitions 
under sub - secti in (2 ) of section 6 of the Pize Competitions Aot, 1956 ( Act 42 of 1965 ). 

Licence To . 
Name of lice 1.BHA , ...... 
Address 
Situation and place of 

business ... 
Town or village ( N.me of street and numijer of premis : 8 in the case. of a town ) 

... D . strict.... 
in herely grantud a licence -li loject in the provision of the Prize Competitions Act , 
1955 ( herrinafter called " 1! 1er Art ” ) and t . rules thereunder for promotion of the 
priz competition ( or competitions ) ders ilind in the schedule annexed to this licence , 
for the period from ....... 

..19 .................... to ..... 
both days inclusiva , subject to thu couc tio.is hereinafter mentioned namely 

Conditions 
The licenser phill afford all facilities for the checking of his accounts and 
shall , ut all reasonable times produce for insaction accounts or other documents and 
shall furnish fully and correctly any information in his possession as may be required 
for the purposes of the Act hy the L cerising wuthority or any otficer authorised 
by the Licensing Authority in this behalf . 

The licensee shall not vary the det : jie of the competition entrance fee and 
the prizes stated in respect thereof in tie sclicdulo hereto 

annexed 

without the 
previous permission of the Licensing Authority . 

3 . The licenser shall state in * prominent place in every publication , ticket or 
coupon isulied in connection with ths priz competition (s ) that he has obtained such 
licence and sliall also specify in such publication , ticket or coupon the number and 
date oi tho licunce. 

4. The licerisce shall not entertain nore than two entries from any one competitor and 
in every prize competition ihm total number of entries shall not excond two thousand . 
5. In any competition 
(i) pres payable in respect of all entries offered or allowed by the licenses 

shall be at uniform rates ; 
(ii) the licensnu shall not giv ! ingy relate or offer any concession whatsoever 

to any class of competitors 
(iii) the licensen shall not allow ans bouus in any form in addition to the 

prize or prizes to be given to any compatitor ; 
( iv ) the licensen giall not allow any remuneration award or prize to any agent 

for the coll . ciion of solutions of compatitore . 
6 . If the licence is suspended or cuncaller for any reason , the licensee shall 
not by entitled to any compensation for Yuh suspension or cancellation or to the 
refund of any fee paid in iesp : ct ther - c: f. 
) ated this ... 

day of..... 

.19 ........ 
Seal of the 
Licensing 

Signature of Liceusing Authority 
Authority . 

Designation . 


2 . 


1 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 21, 1965 . 


FORM C 

( See Rule. 12 ) 
Name of the licensee .... 
Address at which entries are to be reveived ....... 
Number of licence 
Naturo und description of the Prize Competition . 
Prize or Prizes offered for the Competition ..... 
Amount of Entry fee ..... 


Serial Name and address Date of receipt . Whether roceived hy 
No. of the competitors. of the entry . post or by hand . 


Is the entry freo.it 
not , the amount of 
foo reveived . 


1 


2 


FORM D 

( See Rule 13) 
1. Name and address of the licensee 
2. Place of business 
3 . Number of licence 
1 . Nature and description of the prize competition 
5 . Prizes offered 
RECEIPTS 

EXPENDITURE 


Date 


Date 


To Whom 
paid 


Purpose 


Amount 


Name of | S. No. of Amount of 
competitor the entry entry fee 

in the Re- recoived 
gister in 
Furm C 


1 


Total for 


the day 


Total 
for the 
dey 
Progro 
asive total 
(from the 
com menon . 
ment of 
the oompoti . 
tion ) 


Progressive 
tntal ( from 
the oommepoo . 
ment of the 
competition ) 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 27 , 1066 . 


BORM " E " 


(See Rulo 1 ) 


Name and address of the lioonnee 


Place of Business 


Number of Licence 
Nature und description of the Prige Competition 
Prizes offered .. 


. Montla 


Rommarks. 


Total No. of Doual no . of Total sum Loboived Exponditure. 
coopono, no 

in rospect of such 
ocivad . coupons . 

competition . 


froe entry 


11 


I go hereby deolare that I have compared the above particulars with my 
Rogister in Form 0 and the Cash Book in Form - D and they uro , in 

80 far 
as I can ascertain , accurate and completo , 
Dated this ... 

day of 

19 


*** 


. 


Signature of the licencoe . 


A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Government of Manipur. 


lephal --Priated nad pubisbed by ine Superintendent Government Proms 0. 801127-145S , 


Manipur 


Gazette 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 47 


· Imphal, Wednesday , December 28 , 1956 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


Part I.--Appointments, Postings, Transfors , Powers , 

Leave and other porsonal notioes , 
Part II.- Resolutions , Regulations, Ordero, Notifi 

cations, Rules etc. 


Part II. - Orders . Notifications , Rules of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Notices oto . 


4 to 5 
5 to 18 


1 to 3 


PART I 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Order by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 17th December, 1955 . 
No. FA /49 /88. - On his services being placed at the disposal of the Manipur Govt . 
with effeot from the afternoon of the 5th December , 1956 , the Chief Commissioner 
is pleased to appoint Shri Sris Chandra Lala , M.A., B.L., till lately Under Secretary 
to the Government of Bihar , Law Department, as District and Sessions Judge , 
Manipur from 12th December, 1985 until further orders . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


Imphal, the 19th December, 1955. 
No. 1 - MD /67/54. - In exercise of the 

powers conferred 

conferred by Section 8 of the 
Drugs & Magic Romedies (Objectionable Advertisements ) Aot , 1954 (21 of 1964 ) 
road with Government of India , Ministry of Health Notification No: F. 8-10 /66 - D 
dated the 16th April 1955 , the Chief Commissioner is pleased to appoint the Chief 
Medionl Officer , Manipur State the Officer, fur carrying out the purposes of the 
Aøt & the Rules framed under the Act . 

K. G. Singh , 
Asstt . Secretary (MVT ) to the Govt. of Manipur , 


B 


- 


PART 1 

Impbal, the 10th December, 1955 . 
No. G -Hill 41 /54. - In continuation of this Secretariat Order No. G - Hill 41/64 
dated 25-6-55 the Chief Commisioner has been pleased to include the Rogional 
Assistant Commissioner, Assam , Tripura and Manipar for the Scheduled Cartes and 
Scheduled Tribes as a member of the State Tribal Advisory Board . 

By Order , 

0. Kathipri , 
Asstt . Secretary ( Tribal) to the Govt . of Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE DECEMBER 28 , 1965 . 


Imphal, the 19th D.carrber, 956 . 
ENLISTJENT OF ( ONTRACTORY IN THE P. W. D. MANIPUR 

FUR HUADS & HUILLINS WORKS . 
The following rules in regard to the Registration of Contractors in Manipur State is 
hereby issued whi- h shall have effect attoo one month jruma the date of issue of this 
memorandum . 


. 


I 


1. Enlistmaent of Contractors. 

The classification and number of contractors to be eulistid sball be as follows : 
Class. Maximun wincrivued No. Area of operation . 

Financial limit . 
iu bach oluby . 
25 Manipur State For works estimated above 

Rs. 50,000 /- and upto 

Rs. 1 lakh , 
II 50 

.do 

For works estimated above 
Rs. 25 ; 0001- and upto . 

Rs. 50,000 / 
III 100 

do 

For works estimated above 
ks . 10,000 /- and upto 

Rs. 25,000 / 
IV 200 

-du 

For works ostimated upto 
Rs. 10,000 / 
Amounts stated above are the 

value of works put to tender . 
1.2 Tho principles to be follow.d is the enlistment of Contractors shall be as 
follows. 

( 1) Applicutions from all intending contriotort shall be invited by mhand 
of advertisement with wide publicity so as to reach Government before a 
specified date . 
(2 ) Those who have already a : plied for enlistinent or are enlisted as contractors 
before the formulation of the rule , shill , 011 the issue of advertisement 
submit copies of their previoin applications witli full particulars required 
under these rules or shall gulmit fresh applications with all the requisite 
particulars. 
(3) Eich applicant in his application -hall furnish tile fillowing particulars 
and it !! atteh i Certificate from * Prisponible person of statu4 that the 
particul:trs il se tru . to his knowledge and belief : 
(a ) The naine ind full address of the person or firm and if a firm ench 

partner being spi-citically designated with some ind address , 
(b ) l hi extent of his own share in the firm and the names and shares of 

olber partnera. 
(c ) The amount of his capital anl the manner in which it is held . Necessary 

certificate also in supp » t of his in leper.dent financial po - ition from a 
revenue officer uot bel « the rank of in Sub -Deputy Collector , must also 

be furnished by c ::ntracions applying for enlistment in class , I, II ard III. 
(d ) Specifications of Heavy Tools and Plant, if any , in possession . 
(c ) Labour force if any at his disposal or under his immediate command . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 28 , 19:16 . 


( f) Important works of ( overnment, public hidies or prin.ie individuals exo 

cuted by the us pric :: nt in the past . Nature and value of eroh work executed 
and the year execution to be stated . Certificate f authorities conoernod 
as to the satis !actory and timoly execution of the works to be furnished , 

where possible . 
(g ) jay disability ! r di-quilification imposed on him by any department in 

the past and brief description with rearons for each such disability or 

disqualificar:01 . 
(h ) lhe name oi surety or Suretits and the amonnt which the applicants 

for oulistment of class IV auntiactor can produce in support of his 
conduct and wohaviour in Onde de cannot furnish oviuence of financial 

sufficien..y nud stability by bunk reference . 
(i) Relationship if any , with any officer serving in the Pablic Works 

Department . 
( ) Other remak , if any . 
( 4 ) Tho anplication with the above particulars with a treasury chalan for 
Rs, 25 - to be remitted under " XXXIX Civil Works Miscellaneous " as registration 
fee should be addressed to the Assistant Secretary (WAF) to tho Government of 
Manipur. 
(5 ) After all euch applications have been received , the Government will consider 
all the applications and p188 appropriato orders in each case about final enlistment. 
(6 ) After enlistment of the contractors is over, a register of approved list of 
contractors will be opened . The supplementary list of contractors which may be 
published from time to time whall come into operation as soon as quob lists are 
published . The register will be reviewed once in May overy year for addi: ions or 
delotions 
(7 ) A Contractor muy bir remo.ed , bbcklisted , banned or suspended for ineffi 
ciency , ishonesty or any other circumstav es which in the opivion of the Guvern 
ment make it undesirable to re ain him in the list. Any royi- tered coniractor 
whu dues not receive itry contact for a period of 2 yrars or who does not tender 
for any work for a period of 1 year shall be liable to be renoved from th : list 

und r this clausu . 
1. 3 For works put tu tenders und costin .: shove Rs. I lk. , competitive open tenclers 
shall be called for from experienced and resourcelul co : tractors and enlisted con 
tractors of class I and II ily . If contractors in Cla : s IJ ! or IV form it conili . 

conbin . ti a 
nation of the appropriate numbur, 6 ! ch a 

will become il 

tiris ; and 

Individual cintrac 
if registered in a firm will b :+ inble to submit tendens tor such works , 
tor in class Ill and IV skalnot be eligibl.iur tender fris ruch work but ii one can pro.tnice 
Batisfactory wommentitry evidenc such as bank reference to show that he has sufficient 
financial meals and in costry techpiral affidermission may lwy givrn to such persons fur 
aubmission of tenders fi r such works by a special order of the Government . 

Notwithst inding anything contained iu thosh rules, the Government reserves to itself 
the right of ipking additions, alterations and deltions to th : 8 rules or to the lists as 
the case may be . 

Provided further that in any disputo arising from the interpretation of those rules the 
decision of the Cui •f Commissioner , lapipur will be liual. 

G. H , Singh , 
A sstt. Secretary (WAF ) to the Govt. of Manipur . 


IIM W 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 28 , 1955. 


PART II 

Imphal, the 22nd December , 1958 . 
No. V.7. Press / Pub /55 . - The following . Order No. nil of 1-12.55 and Notifica 
tion No. oil of 29-11-55 jøsued by the Under Secretary to the Government of lading 
Ministry of Information & Broadcastiny, New Delhi -2 are published for general 
Ibtormation . 

Gopendra Sharma, 

Publicity Oficer , Manipur . 
1. 

ORDER. 

Now Delhi- 2 , the 1st December, 1965 . 
8. R. O. In persuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the provisions 
of each of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the Order of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Information & Broadcas: ing No. 8. R. O. 945 
dated the 28th April , 1958 the Central Government with previsus apprival of tho 
Film Advisory Board , Bombay hereby certifies the films specified in column 2 of the 
Sohodule hereto annexad , in all their language versions, to 1 of the description 
specified against each in the corresponding entry of column 6 of the said schedule . 

SOHEDULE . 
S. No. Title of the Name of the Source of Whether a scientific film or a 
Films: Producer . Supply . film intended for educational 

purposes or a film dealing with 
news aud current events or . 

dı.cumuntary film . 
1 . Indian News Government of Government of Film dealing with " ews and 
Review No. India , Filme India , Films 

current events . 
872 . Division , Bombay . Division , Bombay . 
2 . Rights of Man do 

do 

Dooumentary film . 
( 1 / 16 / 55 / RF . App /60 ). 


1. Krishna Ayyar , 
Under Secretary to the Govt. of Indir . 


CA 


II. 

NOTIFICATION 

New Delhi- 2 . the 29th November , 19.55 . 
S. R. O. In Axercise of the powets conferred by sub - ruela (3 ) of rule 9 of tho 
Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 1951, read with sub -rale (8 ) of rule 10 of the 
said rules, the Central Government hereby re-appoints after consultation with the 
Central Board of Film (" ensors the following persons as members of Advisory Panel 
of the said Board at Madras with effect from 3rd Doormber, 1965 . 

1. Shri M. Mariappa Bhat. 
2. Sbri A. Ramesh Choudhury . 
3. Sbrimati A. O. Krishna Kao . 

D. Krishna Ayyar , 
Under Secretary to the Government of India 


MANIPUR GAZETTE DECEMBER 28 , 1955 . 


Imphal, the 22nd December , 1986 . 
No. V. 7. Prous, Pub /55-11 .--- Thir following Order insued ly the Govt . of India , 
Ministry of Information & Broadcasting , New Delhi- 2 is published for general infor 
mation . 

Gopendra Sharma , 
Publicity Officer , Manipur . 


( RDER , 


New Delhi- 2 , the 15th December , 19:36 . 
S. R. O ....... In persuance of clause 2 ( two) of the directions issued under the 
provisions of each of the enactments specificd in the First Schedule to the Ordor 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcastug No. 
S. R. O. 945 (nine hundred forty five ) dnted the 25th April, 1935 the Central Govorn 
ment with previous approval of the Film Allvisory Board , Bombay hereby certifies 
the film specified in column 2 (two) of the schedule hereto annexed , in all its 
language versions, to be of the description specified against it in the corresponding 
entry of column 5 ( live ) of the said schedule . 


SCHEDUL E. 


Title of the 

film . 


Namo of the 
Producer .. 


Source of 
Supply 


Whether a scientific ailm or a filma 
intended for educational purposes 
or tilm dealing with now and 
current events or a documentary 
film . 


S. No. 


Indian News | Govt. of Iudia , 
Review No. Film Division , 
374 . 

Bombay 


Film dealing with news and 
current events. 


Govt. of In 
dia , Films 
Division , 
Bombay . 


( 1 / 16 /65 - F : App /62 ) . 


1 


D. Krishna Ayyar , 
Under Seoretary to the Govt . of India . 


Y 


PART IV 


NOTICE No. 2 


Imphal, the 27th December., 1985 . 
Sealed tender with samples of cloth are invited for supply of th : following 
liveries for the Grade IV employoes of the Water Rate Office , Manipur. Tenders 
will be received by tbe undersigned upto the 16th January , 1956 during office hours . 
Full particulars may be bad from the office during office hours . There shall be no 
binding to accept the lowest tender or to assign any reason 

for acceptance of 


aby tender . 


The successful tenderer will have to deposit 20 % of the value as caution money 
and the money will be refunded on completion of supply of the liveries . 

1. Khaki long pants ............... 10 


R. K. Snahal Singh , 
Taxatiou Officer, (Water Rate ) Manipur, 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DE EVREI . 28 , 1956 . 


TININ ! ICE , 

Imphal, the hit ! December , 1956 . 
Sealed tenders ar : inviter ! .t s the spily .f one wiry netting Uningthou almirah 
measuriog 7 4" X 6 8 " x 17" fur * 434 Electie? Ofic, it snipur. Tenders will be received 
by the undervigned up prin . of Its January , 1958 and will be opened on the 
5th Janu :11 y , 19:16 at 1 p.m. in prer :100 of all the tenderers present . Sample of 
the alinirah to be constructed inny by seen from the Election Office (Secretarist 
building ) durink uffice biure . l hr M.2O"(* : -* lill + 2:derer : ill be required to deposit. 
an carnesti money of Rs. 20 :- profundidile on the out: sfactory cimpiction of the work : 
Delivory of the alınirah will have to be mado nithin 30 days from the date of 
the aoceptaice of the tinder . "be coit of transport.of the article from the place 
of workshop to the Election office will be burnum by the tenderer. The undersigned 
does not garanten to accept the lowest or any tender. 


V. S. Sundaram , 
Chief Electoral Officer , Manipur . 


Imphal, the 19th Der imbir , 1955. 
Soaled tenders are invited for « upply of the following clothings for Civil Hospital, 
Imphal and will be received by the undersified upto 11 a.m. of the 5th January , 
1966. Tunderors should quote their rates both in woris and figures . Successful ton 
derer will have to deposit a sum of Rs. 50 /- (rupi es fifty ) which will be rifundad 
to the depositor when the silpply is completed . Surply should ha completed within 
20 (twenty ) days time from the date of acceptance of the tender. 
Cuttins samples of the clolins to lie .upplice should be furnished with the tendı.r. 
Surgeon prun 

24 (twenty Tour ), 
2 . Gloves Cover 

24 

do 
3 . White 10 ! g lani 

2 ( 

). 
4 . Half 

? ( two 
. Doctor8 Coat 

60 ( sixty ) : 
N.B. Size and measurement of the Uniformt otr . my he had from the Civil 
Hospital, Imphal 

N. B , Roy . 
011. Chief sledical Officer, Manipur . 


I. 


) . 


two 


4 4 4 


:: 


) . 


... 


+ 


1 


Init ! 11;. 2015 Th.peso inuy", 195 :-. 
Sanlod teiners illi jirritert 

): supply of 

; ; Toll will liveries for grade IV 
employees of D. M ( lio . , Ing ucfissful tenderer is to deposit 10 % of the 
value settled . Perder Brily $ 10 ;le of clitli 1 ill be roomivrinh ly the undersigned 
upto 30th December, : 15 . 
Name of articles . 

No of articles . 
1 . Khinki ( nat 
2 . Warm Coat . 
3 . Khaki long pants 

2 
4 . Whitu bels ( 1.! yds . long ) 

2 
5. Khaki haversack 


1 


1 


.. 


1 


N , B. Sinba , 
Oflg . Principal, D. M. Collego, Impbol. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DICEMBER 28 , 1957 . 


T ENDER VOTICE . 


Imphal, the 14th December, 19.5.3 . 
No. T / 35 /55.- Sealed tenders will be received f.om vidies EX ! ericzce and resuro -ful 
oontractors upto 12 noon of 5-1-5fi in the Office of the i xecutive Eu incer , Irrigation 
Division for tho underr entioned worka Details may be 11:06 Vailabl : from the filice 
of the undersigned during office huurs . 
Name of work 

Estimated cost Earnost monas 
Estonsion of the existing Arts and Science . R. 8., 134- . ks. 2,1331 
block of D. M.Collage building at Imph ). 

Y Trimbi Singh , 

Executive Engineer 
Irrigation Division , Inpbal. 


Imphal, tho 16th December, 1955 . 
No. T / 38-36-37 /55.- Svalid tenders will be received from registered contractors upto 
12 Noon of 9-1-56 in the Office of the Executiv . Engineer, Irrigati »n Division for 
the underluentioned wurks . Dotails may be available from the office of the under 
signed during office hours. 
Name of works , 

Estimated cost . Earnost money . 
1. Construction of Maternity and 

Child Welfare Centre in Civil 
Hospital, Imphal. 

45,351 / 

1,164 / 
2 . Construction of 14 J ; il warders 
Barracks at lun hal. 

51,2081 

1,280 / 
3. Extension of Johnstone Higli 
School (Westem Hall ). 

27,5 !3 :{ / 

090 / 


Y. Tumbi Sighi , 

Exocutive Engineer , 
Irrigation Division , Imphel. 


pore 


ui 


Imphal, the 14th December , 1955 . 
No. 31 CS 55 4 .-- Seuled tenders superscribed , » Tend , for suply of Li - 17 
with samples of chiti fir supply of the foll nini unif rus ting the Chaprassis wil 
be received in the flicr of the undersi 120 upoto 12.00 " 

the 6th Janury, 
1956 ani ( pened tiyatlie 11:08.gnei before the ind ris that time. Tiere aliull 
bono binding to ( Chp : 

to lowest I am Order assiru reign Thire : f. The 
successful tenderer shall love to deponit ( auti in money of 22.. sif this colal ten 
dered value . 

Names of Uniforms. 
1. Khaki Loung Pants . 

Hate per punt. 

Rui per coat. 
2 . Khaki coints , 
3 . White pågroes of 7 yds rate per pair. 

I. 
d . Warm coats . 

Ruto 

Per coat. 


- 


P. C. S. Bordoloi, 
Asstt . Registrar , Co - operative Societies, Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 28 , 1988 . 


1 


TENDER NOTICE No , 28 . 

Imphal, the 19th Decomber, 1965. 
Sealed tenders stating the rate per Uni!orm are invited for the supply of the follow 
wiug Uniforms of Forest Subordinate Staff and will be received by the undersigned 
upto 2 p . m . of the 10th January , 1956 . 

T he tenderer should supply the completo materials of uniforms such al cloth , 
buttons , huokles , tbreid etc. and should also furnish samplos of cloth of the size 
of 2 x 13 " wiih the tender . The tenderers are also required to deposit a eum of 
Ro. 50 /- (rupees fifty ) only in the Imphal Treasury and should enolos : the Treasury 
Chalan in the trnder, failing which no tender will be accepted . 

will be accepted . The supply of 
uniform shwuld be completed by the 10th February , 1956 at lalest . The under 
signed does nos bind himself to aocept any tender and may reject any tender with . 
out assigning any reason . 
Particulars . 

Numbere . 
1. Long pant of best quality -Khaki drill . 

92 . 
2. Uniform Coat ( Superior) of beut quality 

Khaki Drill , opan bronst, shoulder strapp 
od pocket , ivory burting and waist 
bolt with brass buckles . 

27 . 
3. Chaprassis Uniform - Jumper -of- lio 
4 . Unifira shirt of hest qualily Khaki 

Twill with strapped shoulders & two 
breast pockets. 

49 . 
5. Half Uniform shirt do 

do 


;; 


:: 


NOTICE No. 29 . 

Imphal, the 19th December, 1955 . 
Sealed tenders are invited for the construction of the following buildings of the 
Forest Departınent, Manipur upto 2-1 p. m . on 3-1-58. Detailed plans and specifi 
astions can be anen in the Forest Office on any working day within office hours . 
The undersigned does not bind himasmlf to accept the lowest tender and may roject 
any tonder without Assigning any roason . 
81. No. Particulars of Approximato cost. 

Earnost Date of 
work . 

money . completion . 
1 . ( a ) Construction of a nemi 

Puoca building of 30 " x 16 
wowden post. C. I. Sheet 
roofing at Moreh . 

3,200 / 
(b ) Kitchen of 15 x 10 of 

2001 

15-2-56 
The arme description . 

800 / 
2 . (a ) Construction of a semi 

Purca building of 30 x 16 
wooden post, " !. I. Sheet 
ronfingat Kakching Lamkhai. 3,200 / 
( b ) Kitchen of 15 x 10 of 

900 

16-2-56 . 
the same description . 

800 / 
Construction of Kucha 
building -Quarter- cum -office , 
wooden poat & thatched runf. 
ing - 24 x 18 at Sagolmang . 1,000 / 

15-3-36 


R. L. B. 0. Singh , 
Forest Officer , Government of Manipur. 


" 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 28, 19.15 . 


Pre 


tu 


NOTIIUATION. 

Impbil, the 19th Deceunder, 1956 . 
No. DVC NES U /1/55 / 12.- Applications for the following posts in the National 
Extension Service Blo « ks of Manipur -tate , ure invited and will be received by 
the undersignod on or before the 7th January, 1956 , 
(1) Extension Officer i/ o Auriculture in the scalo of pay lis . 15 )-150-210-10-230 ; 

plus usual writers ailowance . 
Minimum quillification riquir -d j ; diploma op degree 
of ecognise lustitute or University in Avnicuituro . 
ference will be given Agricultural graduates Who 

BcVoicquired practio ! Mxperiencu in field -work , 
( ii) Extension Officer ijo Animad uusbindry in the scale of pay as in (1) above . 

Minimum qualification required is a diplomn : or degree of 
a recognised Institute or University in Animal Husban . 
dry . Prefereace will be given to degree- hulders who have 

acquired practical experience in field work . 
(ii) Extension Officer i /o Co -operatives and Gram Panchuyets in the scale of pay 

as in (i) wlove . 
Applicants should be at least graduates in Arts or Commoroj. 
Preference will be given to those who have received train 

ing and experience in co -operatives and Gram Panchayots . 
iy ) Overseers in the scale of pay Rs 120-120-130 - con - 5-1-46 -EB - 10-245.EB - 10-275 / 

plus inual dearness allowance . 
Candidates should have passed at least Overseer s Course 
in Civil Engineering in a roc: gnised Institute . Preferenne 
will be given to those who have knowledge in public Health 

Engineering 
2. Applioations should stato : 

( 1 ) Name of the applicant . (2 ) Date, place & district of birth . ( 3) Married 
or not ; if married , numbur of wives living and children . (4 ) Father s name 
and profession . (5 ) Educational qualifications-Examinations passed , classes or 
divisions in wbich passed , subjects taken therein , year in wliich passed . Namo 
of the School /College/ University from wbich j asged . (6 ) Previvus experience 
indicating post held , institution where it was held , salary drawn , period of 
service and roasons for leaving the job , and (7) Details of experience of social 

work in rural areas . 
3. Candidatos are to attend the selection test at their own expense , if they are 


required to. 


V. S. Sundaram , 
Development Commissioner, Manipur. 


NOTICE No. ME ( K ). 

Imphal, the 19th December, 1955 
Notice is hereby circulated for the information of the public in general and electors 
of tho Imphal Municipality in particular that in exercise of the power conferred 
upon ne by Rule 2(1) (1) of the Municipal Rulus I, T.C. Tiaakham , Sr. E. A. C. 
and Magistrat in charge Municipal Election do hereby publish the date for the Imphal 
Municipal Board Election as Tuesday the 20th March , 1966 . 

T. C. Tiankham , 
Senior Extra Assistant Commissioner & 
Magistrat I/ C Alunicipal Election , Imphal . 


10 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECE : BER 2 , 1955 . 


NO TIOL . 


Imphal, the 24th December , 1955 . 
No. J / 27 /55.-- Applications are invited and will be received by the undersigned 
apto the 31st of Decem her , 1955 from Ad ocates enrolled in the Court of the Judi 
giul Commissioner, Manipar for is temporary post of Agsjstant Govt. Advocate , Manipur 
on a fixed pay of Rs . 200 /- ( Rupees Two hundred ), plus Dearners Allowance, 28. 
admissible under the rules , with the right of private practice . Applicants must be 
graduates in Law with experience of legal work and should preferably possess know 
ledge of one or mora local languages. 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


Imphal, the 20th December, 1955 . 
Copy of lotter No. C. No. 11.P / Imphal. Seiz / 32/64 / 3100 dated 12.12.K6 from the 
Deputy Supt., Central Exoise, Imphal, to the Chief Secretary to tbe Government . 
of Manipur, is published for general information . 

LAND CUSTOMS NOTICE . 
It is hereby notified that the goods mentioned in the Schedulo 1 & 11 below 
were seized by the Provontive Officer, Land Custoins, Imphal on 31-8-54 from ono 
Sri Hiralal Routh of M /S . Bawa Ratan Singh , Imphal. 

Sri Hiralal · Routh yer 
bally . intimated the Land Customy Officer that the goods belonged to ono Sri 
Sarubhu Sankar Sumi of Ceutral Hotel, Calcutta 12 . 

2. The said . Sbri Sambhu Sankar Sumui is directed by this notice to Show 
Causo to the undersigood within 10 lys from the date of publicatiou of this notice 
why the goods mentioned in Schedule I below should not be coufiscated under 
Soc. 5 ( 3) and Sec . î of the Land Customs Act, 1924 and Sec . 167 (8 ) of the Sea 
Customs Act , 1578 road with Sec . 3(2) of the Impurt: and Exports ( control) Act , 
1947 for illegal import:ution of the game from Burma and why the gouds mentioned 
in the schedule II below should not be confiscalod under Sec. 168 of the Son Customs 
Act , 1878 . He is further asked to stato why penalty should not be imposed upon 
him urder Saa Customs and Land Customs Act. 

lle should also indicate in the 
written explanation whether bu wants to be heard in person . If Sri Sambhu Sankar 
Sumi fuils respond to this notice within the period mentioned above, the case will 
be decided on the evidence available in this office without any further reference to him . 


Schedule I 


45 208 . 


1. Fabre luba wrist watch:98 . (sandow gents strainless steel case ) 
2. Du (Rolled gold ( 880 ) nus . 
3. Fabre luba wrist watches (Sandow ladies rolle« ? gold 30 miorons)-29 nos. 

Parkera 61 fountain pen - 6 nos . 


4 . 


Schedule | 
Old motor cycle parts : 
(a ) motor covers5.no. (h ) brake parts — 1 pair. (o ) Light covering - 1 pair , 
( d ) Head of motor parte- no . 


H .: R. Singh , 
Asstt. Secretary ( GIL ) 
to the Government of Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , DECEMBER 28 , 1965 . 


11 


Imphal, the 24th December , 1956 . 
PROGR MME FOR PAYMENT OF A. R. M. COMPENS 1 1103 MONEY 
FOR THE MONTH OF DECEMBER 1955 AND JASURY 1:56 . 

Ukhrul Sub - Division . 


$ ) . 
No. 


Dt, of paymeut. 


Name of village . 


No. of 


Amount. 

Rs , 


T orul 
Rs. 


piyees 


1 


2 


3 


5 


6 


1 . 


96 


2 . 


113 


27,646 
6,362 
5,082 

997 


3 . 


122 


4 . 


38 


6 . 


17 


3,088 


6 . 


9 


277 


7 . 


56 


21,278 

804 


9 . 


23 


9 . 


24 


749 


. 10 . 


14 


621 


11. 


33 


1,035 
601 


12 . 


13 . 


29 


777 


14 . 


9 


327 


18 . 


14 


16 . 


48 


27-12-65 ( Tue ). 
25-12-55 (Wud ) . 
29-12-55 ( Thurs ). 
30-12-58 ( Fri). 
30-12-55 (Fri ). 
30-12-05 (Fri) . 
31-12-10 (Satur ). 

9. 1-56 (Mon ) . 
g . 1-36 (Mou ). 
9. 1-68 (Mon ). 
10- 1-86 ( Tuos ) . 
10. 1-16 ( Tues ). 
10- | -56 ( Tues ) . 
11- 1-86 (Wodness ). 
11- 1-76 

do 
11- 1-56 do 
12.1-56 . ( Thurs). 
13. 1-56 (Fri ) . 
13- 1.60 do 
13- 1 - ji do 
14. 1-56 (Fatur ). 
16- 1-56 (Mon ). 
17- 1-56 ( Tues ) . 
17- 1-66 ( Tums ).. 
18-1-56 (Wednes ) . 
18. 1-56 (Wednes) . 
18-1-56 (Wednes) . 
19. 1-50 ( l burs ) . 
20-1-56 (Fri). 
21-1-56 ( Satur) . 
23. 1-56 (Mon ). 
23- 1-56 (Mon ). 
23. 1-56 (Mon ). 


17 . 


Hundung Vasingano . 
Huinius 
Khamason . 
Kbulep . 
Kangoi. 
Asbang Khulen ( Thangton ) 
Lambui . 
Namli. 
Luchai Khulon . .. 
Challow Khuroa . 
Shoraphung . 
Sbaicbang 
Gilchingnang . 
Aishi. 
Khayang Kuki. 
Khashung , 
Lamlai Tankbul & Kuki. 
Sborathon . 
Phaisat , 
Shongphel. 
Shiroj . 
Chingjaroi. 
Sihai Khulen & Khupou . 
Mongluam 
Maremphung. 
Lakhan . 
Maichou . 
Lamlang . 

do 
Chamu . 
Loni. 
Chong dan . 
Lairam Khulca . 


1,418 
5,694 
7,302 


64 


18 . 


12 


427 


19 . 


31 


20 . 


32 


6,994 
1,195 
4,462 


21 . 


( 3 


22 . 


100 


12,571 
2,523 


23 . 


fo 


9 


199 


24 . 
25 . 


22 


596 


26 . 


49 


1,168 


27. 


21 


617 


28 . 


247 


7,672 


29 . 


30 . 


70 


6,937 


31 . 


16 


397 


32 . 


32 


1,208 
1,473 


23 . 


53 


1,31,467 / 


Sd /- Illegiblo . 
Sub - Divinional Officer . Ukbral. 


T 


3 . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE DECEMBER 28 , 1955. 


y 


। 


PRESS NOTE . 
Imphal, the 26th December , 1955 . 
" Indixn Women s Education Association ” 

London Scholarship . 
The Indian Women s Education Association , London has offered one scholarship 
for the yeur 1956-57 tin :20 Indian Women Gr.duate for studies in the United King . 
dom in Erlucution , including Physical Education . 

The bc #larship is tenible for one year and is of the value of £ :300 . Ju addi. 
tion passage expenses both ways upto £ 150 and acariernic fees will be borne by the 
Association . The candidates must not be more than 28 years old on Mirch 1 , 1956 . 
The last dite of rec « ipt of applications in the Ministry of Education is January 
l , 1956 . 

Necessary particulars royurling the scholarship and copios of the application form 
oan be had from the Guverainent of India , Ministry of Education , Scholarships Divi 
sions, Section 8-1 , New Delhi and may also be seen from the Offich of the Aszistant 
Secretary (Education ) Govt . of Manipur . 

Gopendra Sharma, 
Publicity Officer , Manipur. 


PROGRAMME FOR PAYMENT OF A , R. M. COMPENSATION IMI HAL 

EAST & SADAR HILL VILLAGES . 


105 


। 


7 


Head Quarter : Iuphal CLAIMS OFFICE . 
IMPHAL EAST , 

Datod . 

26-195 
1. Itam iur.goi. 

Rs. 3,097 / 
SADAR SUB -DIVISION , 
2. Luib Lamjao . 

৪ 

22 / 

13 
3. Thangan surung . 

1,59 / 
4. Glibụng . 

35 

০ / 
( hingriang Maringloba . 

28.12.5 

2ile 

৪ 
6. Tokpa kaun. 

28,00 / 

6 
7. Songliem . 

8,191 / 

5 ) 
8. Bungle Chiru . 

13,661 
9. Ekpan Khullen . 

১৪ 

15,17 
10. Nongmaipal, 

9-1-55 

14 / 
IMPHAL WEST TASBIL : 
ii . I ingri . 

280 30-1-55 । 

35,000 / 
31-12-5 ) 
W. Gourachandra Singh , 

Sub -Deputy Collector (Claims) Manipur. 
টেণ্ডর নােটিশ নং ২৭ 

তা ১৬১২৫ ইং । 
অসিনা মরম ওইদুনা প্রজা পুমা খংহঞ্জরি । মাহুদি ফোরেষ্ট শিপমেন্ট , মণিপুরগী শামুগী শিরিন দিনে 

( রা ) খক লেজগনি । পবিগে হায়বা মীনা মণ খুদিং । লুপা কয়া গেষ্ট পৰা মগদগে হায় 
অছু শেংনা ইদুনা ভাং ৩১৫৬ ইংগী নুংথিল পুং অনি তা ফাওবগী মনুংদা মখদা সহি জেবি অসিদা টের 
অৰিৰ আগনি । টের পীৰিগদৰা মীমা আরবেষ্ট মনি দুপা ২০ ( প । কুন ) ইঙ্কল, ট্রেজৰিা গমনুয়গা চলন 
ফশী অমগা লিনগী সেপলগা লােয়ননা টেণ্ডর পীবিগদবনি । চেগুরদা ফাও মীনা 

ফাণ্ডৰ মীনা লিমােন অই শামুক 
(কোচাই ) বস্তিদা হাথা অনিগী মনুংদা পীবিগবনি । মসিগীদমক অপ্পো খৰচ ভান মারেই । 
কাণ্ডৰ মীগ আরনেষ্ট মনি অদিলিমােন শুনা পাঁৰা লােইবগ হলোঝনি । অদুগা ফাদ মীদি 
হলােচগনি । ইতি ও ১৬-১২-৫৫ 

R. K. B. C. Singh , 

Forest Officer Guvt. of Manipar . 
Imphal :-Printed and publshod by ine Superinbadant Government Prose C. $ 12/27-18.10. 


Manipur 


Gazette 


LIST 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 48 


Imphal, Wednesday , January 4 , 1956 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


1 


Pan I .-- Appointments , Postings , Transfors, Powers, 

Leave and other porsonal notices , 
Part 11. - Revolutions, Regulations, Orders , Notifi 

cations , Rules otc. 


Part 11.- Orders, Notifications, Rules of 

ibo Government of India , 
Part IV . - Advertisemcats and Noticos eto . 


Nil 
1 to 10 


1 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Order by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 28th December, 1965 . 
No. Vaty /13 /53. - The Chief Commissioner is pleased to appoint Shri Sambbu 
Nath Chattarjoe, Research Assistant , Indian . Voterinary Research Instituto Izainagar 
H & Animal Husbandry Officer, Manipur at the initial pay of Rs. 270 / - P : M. in the 
xonle of Rs . 250-30-650-25-750 )- with usual dearuoss allowance. He will be on proba 
tion for one year. 

K : G. Singh , 
Asstt . Secretary (MVT) to the Govt. of Manipur . 


. 


PART 1) 

Imphal, the 28th December , 1965 . 
No. Estt /5 /55 / 15 .-- The Chief Commissioner is 

Chief Commissioner is pleased to acoord sanction to 
the grant of washing allowance at the rate of Rs . 1 /- (Rupee one ) only por month 
to all Class IV employees of this Administration who are entitled to get livorios 
for keeping their liverios clean , with effect froin the 1st December, 1956 till further 
orders . 

The expenditure is to be in it from the sanotioned contingent grants of the 
offices concerned . 

H. R. Singh , 
Asstt. Seoretary (GIL ) to the Govt. of Manipur . 


PART IV 

Imphal, the 31st.Dooember , 1956 . 
PROGRAMME FOR PAYMENT OF MANIPUR AIR - FIELD COMPENSATION 

TO BE MADE IN CLAIMS OFFICX . 
Sl. No. 

Namo of Airfield . 

Dt. of paymont 
1 , Kwukta Air - field . 

7-1-5a . 
W..Godrachandra Singh , 
Bub- Deputy Collector (Claims ) Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 4 , 1966 . 


Imphal, the th December, 1985 . 
PROGRAMME FOR PAYMENT OF .. R. M. COMPENSATION 
TENGXOUPAL CIRCLE , 

Head Quarter :-SAÇANOO . 

Dated . 
1. Thorchom . 

49 11-1-56 

1,841 / 
2. Khudoi. 

28 do 

786 / 
3 . Phoilon . 

do 

240 / 
4. Maoyang . 

in do 

455 / 
5. Darchui. 

24 do 

637 / 
6. Khangbalon . 

do 

· 1268 / 
7. Molipibung . 

25 do 

6971 
8. Tuikong 

16 do 

700 / 


59 


18 
98 


9 . Monubi. 
10. Mayon Khullon . 
II . Pantba . 
18. Nungtbong . 
18. Thangbuns Minou . 
14. Narum . 


12-1-56 

do 
do 
do 
do 
do 


1,6701 
4,452/ 
758 / 
10,67412 
309 ) . 
4,0031 


19 


10 


30 


88 
32 


13-1-56 

do 


16. Kampong 
16 , Tarso . 
17. Mitony . 
18 . Monsbang . 


778 / 
8,388 / 
1,689 , 
1,040 / 


do 
do 


39 


W. Gourachandra Singh , 
Sub -Deputy Collector (Claims) , Manipur . 


TENDER NOTICE . 

Imphal, the 4th January , 1986 . 
No. CP /BLD /1/55 . Sealed tenders superscribed as " Tonder for aonstruotion of 

Service Crato at Thoubal Voterinary llospital Compouud ” are invited and will 
be received by the undersigned upto 11 d . L. (I » T ) of the 15th January , 1956 . 


SI. No. 


l articulars . 


Time for completion . 


Approximate Earnest 
GUst. 

money . 


1 


525 / 


10 / 


Construction of a Service 
Crato at the 1 houbul Vete 
rinary Hospital Compound . 


3 weeks from the date 

of receipt of written 
work order . 


Dotailed plan and specifications cun be seen in the Office of the undersigued 
any 

working day during office hours . Tender forms may be bud from the 
Office of the undersigned on paymeut uf Re. 1/• each . 


K. L : Singh, 
Project Executive Officer, Manipur , 


MANIPUR GAZETTE JANUARY 4 , 1956 . 


TENDER NOTICE . 


-- 


. 


Imphal, the 3186 Decemlor, 1955 . 
Sealed tenders are invited from Registored ( ontractors upto 3-30 p . M. on 10-1-86 
and shall be opened on the same day at 4 P. M. for the following works 


81 


Parti •ulars . Approximate Earnest 

Time for 
No 

cost . 

money 

ompletion . 
1 . Upgrading Ukhrul Rond 

291-45 miles of the Imphal 
Ukhrul Road . 

62,502 / 

1,865 / 

8 months. 
Construction of New Lital 
Ukhrul Rond ( Temporary 
bridges and culverts ). 

1,89,788 / 

3,49512 

6 months. 
Detailed plans and specifioation can 

specifiontion can be soon la tho Office of the undersigned 
on any working day within office hours. Teodor Forms oan bo had from the Offion 
of the undersigned on payment of Re. 1 /- cach . 

E. Krishnan , 

Executiv . Engingur , 
Highways Division , P. W. D. Manifur . 


por each 


Imphal, the 2nd January , 1966 . 
Souloit tonden for supply of the following dresses are invited and will be roosivad 
by tho undersigned in his offioe upto 12 noon of tho 16-1-56 during office hour 
and will be opened on the same day in presence of the tonderers . Tho Successful 
tenderer shall have to deporit A 

sum of As . 40 /- in cash for each tender as mou 
rity deposit for due supply which will be refunded on satisfactory completion of the 
mupply . " The articles wili hava to be delivered to the offices of the Executive Enginoor, 
Irrigation Division and the Exeoutivo Engineer Highways Division within thirty days 
from the date of acceptance of the tender . Rates should be quoted per each or 
por yard inclusive cost of materials , misking charges and salo tax and other inci . 
dootal obarges aluny with samplos of the materials . 

la all cases of dispute the decision of the Executive Engineer , (I ) Division and 
the Executive Engineor Highways Division will be final, Further detais may be 
bad from the office during office hours. The undersigned do pot bind themselves 
to scoopt the lowest or any tender . 
Name of dresses 

Quantity 

Ruto Total 
1 . Khaki Coat 

22 008 . 
Khuki pant ( loug ) 

TL . 

do 
l agree of white long cloth 

1:48 yda. 

do 
Warin wool over coat ( if 
black flanel 

9 10s . 

do 
HV 130ck4 of khaki cloth 

do 
White belt of long cloth 

39 yds . 

do 

Y Trimbi Singh , 

Executive Engineer, ( Irrigation ) . 
Name of dresses 

Quantity 

Rato 

Total 
Khaki C : t Best quality drill 12 nos. 

each , 
Kaki long pant 

do do 12 );OS . 
Pagr. o . of long cloth 

do 

· 12 nos . 
27 " long g " width . 
Warni Cost of flannol 

do 
( Khaki ) colour. 

E. Krishnan , 
Executive Engineer (Highways ). 


::: 


13 gos . 


2 . 


ilo 


. 


12 ņos . 


MASIPUR GAZETTE JANUARY 4 , 1066 , 


NOTICE N ... 1295 - HE /61. 

Imphal, the 24th Novombor , 1966 . 
1. Sealed tendon for supply of the undernoted quantity of Yangou Punts for 
Mae as electrio poles for H. T : Transmissiou lines aro invited and will be received by 
the undersigned upto 2 P. M. of 18-1-66 . for delivery at Imphal. 

2. An earnest money of RA 144/ - ( foar hundred forty four) only in Treasury 
Chalan should accompany cach tonder. 

8. Detailed specifications and terms & conditions of supply can be had fro :n the 
ofice during working hours 
Description of poles . 

Quantity required . Rate . 
1. 38 ft. long poles 
Circumference at the top ... 28 " 
at 6 from bottom . - 44 " 160 Numbers , 

Kaob . 
at bottom . 

18 " 


: . 


1 


+ 


2. 31 ft . . long poles.com 
Ciroumference at the top 

23 " 
at 6 from bottom . 40 " 
at bottom . 

43 ° 


178 Numbors . 


Hach . 


11 


B. M. Sharma, 

Electrical Engineer, 
Manipur Hydro Electric Omce". 


- 


Impbel, the 37th Dooembor, 1955 . 
Souled Tondon are invited from registered contractors upto 3.30 . P. M. 
13-1-60 and shall be opened on the same day at 1. P. M. for the following works . 


1 


31. 
No. 


Tight for 
completion . 


coot . 


1 . 


6 month .. 


2 . 


Particulars . 

Approximato Earnest 
alto 

inoney . 
Surface Painting Loimakhong Phetdinga 
Road 11-18 milos . 

Rs . 39,830 / - Rs. 745 / 
Surface Painting Kakobing Sugnộo Road 
Sugnoo Turning to Bugnoo 17 milos 
( Earth work , boulder , granular materiala ). Rs. 61,460 %- RX . 1540 : 
Do do 

do ( C & llection 
of metal and consolidation ). 

Rs . 1,86,456 / - Rs.3,416 ! 
Do do . do 

(Collection 
of chips ). 

Rs. $ 1,461/- Rs, 1,290 / 
Construction of Disponsary building at 
Mayang - Imphal. 

Rs.84,214 /- Rs. 686/ 


6 months. 


3 . 


9 months 


months. 


6 . 


6 months : 


Detailed plans and specifications can be soon in the office of the undersigned 

any working day within office honro . Tender Forms be bad from the 
Opice of the undersigned on psymont of Re. Ito enab , 

& . Krishdan , 

Escontive Engineer , 
Highwaya Divisioa , P , W. D. Manip 


MASIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 4 , 1956 . 


50 


NOTICE . 

Im ;; bal, the 31th De: ember , 1955 . 
Applications addressed to the Assistant Secretary (WAF) to the Government of 
Manipur are invited from the intending Contractors for enlistment as Registered 
Contractors of Manipur P. W. D. for Roads and Buildings and will be received , by 
the undersigued upto the 31st January , 195 !i . 

Applications should be in strict confornity with the Rules fur Enlistment of 
Contractors of the Government of Manipur which has been published in the State 
Gazetto of the th January , 1951 copy of which may be had from the Superin 
tendent, Government l russ , Manipur on pymint. 

Y. Tombi Singh , 

Executive Engineer , 

Irrigation (Division ) l’. W. D., Manipur , Imphal. 
ENLISTMENT OF CONTRACTORS IN THE P.W.D. MANIPUR 

FOR ROADS & BUILDING WORKS . 
The following rules in regard to the Registration of contractors in Manipur 
Stato is heretiy issued which shall have effect after one month from the date of 
issue of this meinorandum . 

1.1 Enlistment of Contractors 

The classifications and number of contractors to be enlisted shall be as follows : 
Class. Maximum sanctioned Area of operat.un . 

Financial limit . 
No. in each class. 
1 26 Manipur Sta ! e . For works estimated above Rp. 50,000 , 

and upto Rs. I lakb . 
II 

do 

For works estimated above Rs. 25,000 / 

and upto Rs. 50,000/ - , 
INI 
100 

do 

For works estimated above Rs . 10,000 / 

and upto Rs. 25,000 / -. 
IV 200 

do 

for works estimated upto Rs. 10,000 /- . 

in unts stated above are the value of 

Works put to render, 
1.2 The principles to be followed in the oulista.ent of Coptructors shall be as 
follows :-- 

( 1 ) Applications from all intending contractors shall be invited by means of adver 
tisemont with wide publicity 80 dB to reach Government before a specified 
date . 
(2 ) Those who have already applied for enl - tment or are mulisted as contractor 
before the formulation of these rules, shall , on the jerue of advertisement 
submit copies of their previous applications with full particulara required undor 
these rules or shall submit fresh applications wilh oll the requisite particulars . 
( 3) Each applicant in his application shall furnish the following partiouhan 
and shall attach a certificate from a re - ponsible person of status that the 
particulars are true to his knowledge and belief : 
ta ) The name and fall address of the person or firm ad if a firm each 

" partner being specifioully designated with name and address . 
(b ) The extent of his own share in the firm and the name and shares 

of other partners . 
( o) The amonnt of his capital and the manner in which it is beld . Nexossary 

oortifionte alvo in suport of his independent financial position from a rove 
bin office not boton the rank of Sub-Deputy Collectot, want sloo be 
fornimed by contmotors applying for antistmont in elasa , # , Il und III. 


6 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 4, 1956 . 


Y 


Case 


( d ) Specifications of Heavy Tools and Plant , if any, in possession . 
(e ) Labour force if any at his disp : sal or under his immediate command. 
( f) Important . works of Government, public bodies or private individual 

executed by the applicants in the past . Nature ani) value of each work 
executed and the year of cxecution to be stated . Certificates of autho 
rities concerned as to the satisfactory and timely execution of the works . 

tu le furnished , where possible . 
(g ) Any disability of disqualification imposed on bim by any department in 

the past and brief description with reasons for each such disability or 

disqualification . 
(h ) The name of Surety or Sureties and the annount which the applicants 

for enlistment of clasa IV contractor cap produce in support of his con 
duct and behaviour in caso h2 cannot furnish evidence of fipancial 

sufficiency and stability by bank reference. 
(i) Relationship if any , with any officer ferving in the Public Works 

Dopartment. 
(j) Other renurks, if any . 
( 4 ) The application with the abovo particulars with a treasury chalan for Rs. 26 ; 
to be remitted under " LXXX * Civil Works Miscellaneous " as registration fee 
should be addressed to the Assistant Secretary (WAF ) to the Government 
of Manipur. 
(6 ) After all such applications have been received , the Government will consider 
all the applications and pass appropriato orilers in each 

about final 
enlistment . 
(6 ) After enlistment of the contractors is over, a register of approved list of 
contractors will be opened . The supplementary list of contractors which may 
be published from tima to time shall come into operation as soon as auch 
lists are published . The register will be reviewed once in May every year. 
for additions or deletion . 
( 7 ) A Contractor may be removerl , bla kiisted , banned or suspended for inc 
fficiericy , dishonesty or any other circumtnces which in the opinion of the 
Government make it undesirable 10 retain bin in the list . Any registered 
contractor who does not receive any contract for a period of 2 yours or who 
does not tender for any wirk for a period of 1 year shall be liable to be 
removed from tho list under this slange . 

For works put to tenders and costing above lis . | lak ı , competitive open 
tender shall lopen called for from experience ! und resourcefuil contractors and enlisted 
oontractors of class I and II only . If contractors in Class III or IV from a combi 
nation of the appropriate number, such a combination will become in new firm and 
if rogistered us 

in firin will be able to submit tender for such worho . Individual 
contractor in Vlasy III and IV shall not be eligible for tender for such work but if 

can produce satisfactory documentary evidenie such as bank reference to show 
that he has sufficient financial means and recessary technical staff permission may 
be given to such persons for submission of lenders for such works by u special 
order of the Government. 

Notwithstanding inything contained in these rules , the Governmont reserves 
to itself the right of makin .. additions , alterations and deletion to these rules or 
thin the lists as tho case may he , 


1.3 


one 


Provided further that in any dispute arising from the interpretation of these 
rules the decision of the Chief Commissioner, Manipur will be final. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 4 , 1960. 


7 


+ 


Imphal, the 23rd December, 1955 
Subject :-Rainfull returns for the month of June , 195.5 . 
(8 ) Statement showing the total 
the total rainfall for each raingailge 

stations for 
June , 1955. 
(1 ) Civil Hospital raingauge station 

9.52 " 
( 2 ) Cantonment aren 

9.6 .) " . 
(3 ) Kangchupkhul 

13.99 " 
( 4 ) Tamenglong 

28,25 " 
( ) Number of rainy days i. o. days on which 0,10 " (10 conts ) or more has 
fallen for eacb station . 
( 1) Civil Hospital raingaage station 

14 days. 
( 2 ) Cantonment area . 

16 
( 3 ) Kangchupkhul 

16 
( 4 ) Tamenglong 

22 
( c ) Statomont showing rainfall of 0.10 " or over with accounts in the pracoding 
and following 24 hours during the month . 
District , Stations . 

Dato 

(Acoount of pre- on date in Suooeding 
ceding day . 

Col 3 . day . 


Manipur . 


ivil Hospital 


0.18 " 
01.22 " 
1.93 " 


0.66 " 
0.45 " 


4-6-65 
7-6-55 
10-655 
13-6-55 
17-6-55 
20-6-0 :) 
24-6-55 
30.11-55 


0.14" 
1.20 " 
0.23 " 
0.800 
0.10 " 
0.55 
0.16 " 


0.90 " 


1.68 " 


1 


- 


Cantonment. 


( .19 
0.15 " 
0.160" 


2 " 
1.10 " 
0.12" 


3-6-55 
6-6-55 
9-6-55 
17-6-00 
Wi -6-52 , 
24 0-55 
30-47-55 


0.70 " 

46 " 
0.22 " 
0.82 " 
0.10 " 
0.56 " 
0.18 " 


0.98 " 


1.60 " 


- 


Kangchup 

khul. 


n82 " 
0.611 " 
2.24 " 
3.00 " 


0.92 " 
1.95 
0.7 % 
0.52" 


4-6-55 
8-6-56 
11-6-55 
16-6-55 
20 6-555 
24--55 
27-17-55 
30 6-55 


0.62 " 
0.100 " 
0.54" 
0.27 " 
0.50 " 
0.:26 " 
(1.25 " 


0.22 " 


0.50 " 


i 


Tamenglong 


0.22 " 


1-6-5 .; 
4-6-55 
7-6-55 
10-6-55 
13-6-55 
17-6-55 
20-0-55 
25-1-56 


1.17 " 
1,27 " 
0.63" 
2.06 " 
1.18 " 
3.27 " 
1.23 " 
2.36 " 


3.75 " 
1.19 " 
2.06 " 
( 1.46 " 
1,96 " 


0.19 " 
0.30 " 
0.77" 
0.42" 
0.68 " 
0.80 " 
11.30 )" 


G. H. Singh , 
Asstt. Secretary (WAF ) to the Govt. of Manipur. 


8 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 4 , 1986 . 


Imphal, the 20th December , 1950 . 
No. V.7.PRESS/PUB/55:--The Rollowing document is republished for general 
information : 

Gopendra Sharma, 
P ublicity Officer , Manipur . 


Shillong tho 3786 Oc sober, 1955 . 
No. 605 ( a )NRC .-- The undermentioned candidates are declared to have passed 
the Midwifery Exusnination for Senior Certificates held in Septeinber , 1956 . 

(Name in alphabetical order). 

CIVIL HOSPITAL , IMPHAL . 
1. Chinu , Kipgen . 
2. Deri Yengkhon Shanti. 

3. Devi Hijam Ibemyaima. 
No. 605 (b )NRC --The undermentiond candidates are declared to have passed the 
Midwifery Examination for Junior Certificates field in September , 1958 . 

(Name in alphabetical order ). 
1 : Chongjaphal. 2 , Devi Keisam Lilabati. 3. Devi Naorem Sanaracha. 4. Dovi 
Aboubam Tombisana , K. Hatriu . 6. Hinah , 

6. Hinah , 7. Lbingboi. 8. Lemzathing . 9. Nemkbo 
shing . 10. Niengkholhoi. 11. Nemjatin . 12. Nemkholam . 13. Nenkhooboog . 14. Phiri. 
15. Sarangla . 16. Tingjan - m . 17. Thumobum . 18. Tingkbolhing . 19. Tingnoithing . 
30. Tingkho . 21. Vangamlal. 22. Neikholþing . 
Nas : 26. Neinu . 

27. Shangshol. Failod . 
28. Tonal. 

8d /- A. Bullook , 
Registrar, Asaan Nurzhe , Midwives & 
Health Visitors Council, Shillong . 


Imphal, the 19th Docember, 1955 . 
No. Tax / 51/ 53 - B .-- The following inttor No. 44 ( 19 ).1. T./55 , dated the 22nd Novem 
ber , 1956 iusneið loy the Govt. of India , Ministry of Finance ( Revonne Division ), 
Now De: hi is published for general information . 

R. K. Sanahal Singh , 

Additional Assistant . 
Secretary /Finance to the Govt. of Manipur. 


Sub :-Income-tax Deduction from salaries during 1955-56 

Mistakes in the instructions Correotion of 
I am dirooted to invite a reference to this Ministry s lette : F. No. 48 ( 10)-I.T./55 , 
dated the 4th July 1965 and to say that the corrections indicated below ,may plonne 
be made theroin : 


( i) In Examplo VI , on page 8 for the figures " 2,800 " for " Innnnoo Promin 

and Provident Fund Contribution " road " 3,800 " . 
(ii ) For exampto " I on page 9 , read Ksamplo VII . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , SANUARY 4 , 1956 . 


8 


NOTICE No. 10 , 

Impbal, the 2nd January , 1936 . 
Sealed tenders superscribed as “ Tender for Sunken Mahal" -Tipaimukh to Bor 
chutiya near Yolbung in Borak 200 invited for exclusive right to oolloot sunkon 
stranded and drift lygs and will be received by the undersigand uptı) 2 p . ma . of 
16-1-56 . The period of collection is 3 (thrue) months from the 1st January , 1956 
to 31st Marchi , 1956 . 

"The tenderer shuuld inspect the itruk before subinission of tender to havo 
thorough ides of the aroa After the sale of the Mahal no complaint regarding 
inavsilability of unken , stra !ıded anıl drift logs and inaccessibility to the Mahai 
will be heard . 

Each tenderer should state a lump sum Monopoly fee payable within 7 (Dovou ) 
days of the receipt of his tender s accepta ujoe . 

Each tenderur should deposit an earnest money of Rs . 25 /- either in Imphal 
or Silchar Treasury nail should enclose tho Treasury Chalan in the tender failing 
which no tender will be accepted . The earnest money will be refunded in the 
CASO of unsucoessful tenderer and will be converted into a part of caution money 
in cle of successful tenderer. Succesful tenderer should execute an agreement 
within 7 ( seveu ) days of the receipt of the information to that offeot and well 
deposit a caution money of Rs. 50 /- (Rupeus fifty ) only falling which the teador 
shall be treated as cancellod and the earnest money deposited sball be forfeited 
to the Government of Manipur . Caution money will be refunded after expiry of 
the period without any interest : 

Over and above the Sch « dulo rate of royalty , a sum of annus -/41. will be realised 
on each unclaimei salved longs. The contractor will also have to pay the Salo 
Tax of -/- 16 pies per rupee of royalty in addition to the above charges . In case 
if there be any bonafied claimant on the silved logs , the contractor will get the 
salving charge from him . 

T he contractor shall not in any way iuterfors the working of the Blouk bolders; 
but he can collect sulticient canes and bambuos froin the blocks in which the area 
lier for making raſts . 

The contractor should start his work within 31st January, 1956 failing which 
another contractor may be omplayed by the Forest Oficer at his discretion for 
collection of such logs from the 1st February , 1956 . 

The undersigned dose not bind hiinself to socopt the highest tundar and may 
roject any tender without assigning any reason . 

R. K. B. C. Singh , 
Furest Officer, Government of Manipur. 


Imphal, the 4th January , 1966 . 
PROGRAMME FOR PAYMENT OF A. R. M. COMPENSATION 

BESHENPUR TAHSIL . 
SI. No. Name of village 

No. of ondes 

Date of payment . 
1 . Oinar Village 

627 

11-1-56 to 18-1-56 . 


7 


W , G. Singh , 
S : D. O. Olaims, to the @svt. ofManipur. 


০ 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 4, 1956. 


T 


নােটিশ । 


৫ 


Impbal, the 27th December, 1955 . 
No. sl0ii / 55.- এ পা খংহী মাহুদি ষ্টেট ট্রেডিং অফিল ইংশােক ১৯৫৬ জানুয়ারী থাগী 
যখাগী ভারিখ অমসুং বাজানী মতুঃ ইয়া চেঙ গেনি । চেগী মমলদি রোজা মণদা পুলা ৯ { মাপল ) নি । 
হয়। সভা, গাড়াদা পাংখা, 

গুন অষ শমা গমজিনা ( ষ্টোক 

খ চে ওমী সনা , 
গদৰনি । বাড়ানি অন্য এইগলবনি অমসুং গোড়। অমদা চেঙ মশ ২৫ 

মখায় ) পদবনি । চে 
শরীব মী খুনিমকন * লো উৰা মীনি অমসুং গুৰীবা চেঃ অদু মশা -মীৰ পৌদশী পোকপা টেনি 
বায়না ভাইবা চে অগ? ( ভিাৱেষ্য ) খুলা খাব ৰা স্বাক্ষী আমচুদা অমা ফাওনা সই গেইনা পাৰিগৰনি । 

ষ্টেট স্টুডিং সিন সৌগদবা চেঞ্জ নমুনা ( সেম্পল ) অফিসত খঞ্জরে । 1.চঙ তম্বিগে হায়বা লে বা মখৈনা অফিস 
লাজ না পেল য়েংবিগবন । কনা মীনা সেশলদগী তানা চেঙ পুবিরবদি চেঙ লৌঞ্জৱােই { নিজেই 
গেনি ) । 

চেও . দৌৰা ৰেদি কৈখন কৈখেলগী ওইন। *শখা । পরিব । তারিখ অপু শাশওগাঁ মই ইন্না 
ৰাজার কোল্লি পশিদা লৈ দেউৰশিংগী অমুক পুঙ ১০ ( জ ) গী চেও লেবা হৌজগনি । নোং 

য়ি ৱিা ৰাজাৰশিংগী মণী অগী হেয় পুধিকপা অঃ দায়ী আফিন। পুরোই । অহেনবা চে মখৈ , 
লানােই । চেঙ ভীগদ মীণিংলা ষ্টেট ট্রেঙিং আকিসী কোদােংগী ৱাংমদা অকোন জন নাইনা লেনা 
লৈৰিগৰনি । 

চে জীগদষ। মী দিমনা মাগী মাগী ভাবিখ থােকপা মিতা অমুক পুঃ ১ • গী মমাওদা ষ্টেট ট্রেনিং 
শাকিসতা চেত মেহনরিনি। অনুষ্ণ পুঃ ১০ ( তৱা ) গী ভুদা পৰিকপা চেষ্ট লেজিরেই । শুনিনি । 
এ পৃষক চের লেগ্রি ফাকা গাড়ীদা খৰীগবন । লৈপাক্তা থানা পথ। মায়েই । 

মাগী নৌমনাই অগো নােটশ অম অমুক রেনি । 


••• 


মণি; 


১১১-৫৬ 


১ . 


:: 


১৩-১-৫৬ 


। 


বা মনি 
ললো খে ik , পালৈ 
পুও, ওম , মলাই 
আইuংলােপ, কোৰা, ইলিং 

খেন , থা , মাইরিলােক 
নিং , লিলাে , যৌবাল 
ব্যাংকিং, হৈয়েকি , খখাংজোম 
ককট , পলেম, হৈয়াংখােইফেং 
হিয়া.জোই, ময়া কান 
সেমাইল, গাই, বাই Rে 
কচীং নৌ , ভগ , কাকলে 
চকৈ, ঘােল, শুইনাম 
বিপনিংথৌখে , শােনা 

পাংখী, চুলাচান্দপু , মাম 
“ গােশত 

পালং, 
মি , আর 


১৫ 


, 


৪১-৫৬ 


:: 


, পলল ও 
ঠে ঐভং এখ, মনিপু । 


LabpbeldePaleted and probabkad bing ille ammortatradomi Government Prom Ch 400 4-1-56 


Waar grua 


Manipur 


Gazette 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 49 


Imphal, Wednesday , January 11 , 1956 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


1 


Part I. - Appointments, Postings , Transfors, Powers , 

Laavo and other personal notioes , 
Part II . - Rosolutions, Regulations, Orders, Notifi 

cations, Rules otc 


Part IlI . - Orders , Notifications, Rulos of 

the Government of ladja , 
Part IV .- Advertisements and Noticos ato . 


2 to 5 
5 to 13 


1 to 2 


PART 1 
GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Ordons by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 6th January , 1956 . 
No. B - TP / 5 /51 /454-5 .--- The Chief Cominissioner is pleased to promote Shri H. 
Biraghandra Siogh , Mechanical Supervisor to the rank of Assistant Manager , M.8 : T . 
in the scale of Rs . 180-10-250 / - with effect from the forepoon of 23rd October, 1955 
in the vacancy caused by the release of Shri M. Gourmani Singh , from the M.S.T. 
Department . 

K. G. Singh , 
Asstt. Secretary (MVT ) to the Govt , of Manipur. 


PART 1 

Imphal, the 28th December , 1965. 
No. C -HDE , 60,51 285 .-- I he following Regulation No. 13 is publigbed for general 
information . 

L. M. Singh , 

Asstt. Secretary ( du ) to the Govt . of Manipur . 
EXTRACTS FROM THE REGULATIONS RELATING.TO THE GOVT. OF INDIA 
SCHOLARSHIPS FOR SCHEDULED CASTES & SCHEDULED) TRIBES 

AND OTHER BACKWARD CLASSES - 1950-56 . 
Rogulation No. 13 . 

A Government of India scholarship holder will not hull any other scholarship 
except & merit scbolarship from University or Board or from the State Govt. or 
a grant for purchase of text books from any source ; but if awarded state Govt . 
or any other scholarship of higher value not based on merit, he /she will have the 
option to avail of that soholarship after 1. funding the entire amount of the Central 
Scholarship drawo during the year. In casos where the value of Central Scholarship 
is less than that of State Scholarship , the State Government muy , if they 80 desire , 
supplement the Central Scholarship of a particular scholar by raising it to the level 
of the State Scholarship 


MANIPUR GAZETTE : JANUARY 11, 1966 


NOTIFICA TIO N. 

Impbal, the 30th December , 1958 . 
No. HCNA / 15 /52.- In exercise of the powers omferred by Section 16 of the 
Cinematograph Act, 1962 (XXXVII of 1952 ) as delegated to bim by the President 
under Clause (1 ) Article 2 39 of the Constitution , the Chief Commissioner is pleased 
to make the following amendment in the Manipur Cinematograph Rules, 1955 
published under Notification No. HONA / ! 5/62 dated the 5th October, 1958 , namely : 

In Form A annexed to the Second Schedule of the said Ruler , the condition 
No. 16 shall be omitted and shall be deemed to haro always been so omitted . 

Gopendra Sharma, 

l ublicity Officer , Manipur, 
PART II . 

Imphal, the 3rd Japury , 1966 . 
No. V.10 -FD -Ordør /Pub /55.- The following notifications and orders issued by the 
Govt. of India , Ministry of Information und Broadcasting , New Delhi - 2 are republished 
tot general information , 

Gopendra Sbarma, 

Publicity .Oficer to the Govt. of Manipur. 
NOTIFICATION , 

New Delhi- 2 , the 28th Ootober, 1956 . 
S.R.O .......... In exercise of the power conferred by sub- section ( 4 ) of section 5 
of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952), tbo Central Government hereby 
directs that the film entitled “ Threy Hours to Kill " produced by Columbia Piotures 
Corporation , U.S.A. shall be deemed to bu uncertified films in the whole of India 

(No. 8 / 13 / 65 - FC ) 

OR DE R. 
In continuation of this Ministry s order No. 6 / 48 /51 - FC , dated the 22nd Dotober , 
1955 and in exercise of the powers 

conferred by section 9 of the Cinematograph 
Aot, 1962 (XXXVII) of 1952 ), the Central Government hereby excmpts the exhibition 
of films as in the Schedule annexed hereto by Miss Marie Seton from the provisions 
of part Il of the said Act subject to the followiug conditions : 

(i) No admission fee shall be charged . 
( il ) The film shall be exhibited only by way of demonstration in connection with the 

lectures delivered by Marie Setor . 
(iii ) Members of the Central Board of film ( ensors and its Advisory Panels , Regional 

and Assistant Regional Officers of the Board and employees of the Stute Govern 
ments ongaged in the discbarge of their official duties shall be admitted to the 
places and to film shows. 

ACH EI) U L E. 
1. Drawings that walk and talk , 
2 . Cabinet of Dr, Calligari. 
3. Council of Gods. 

(No.6 / 48 /65- FC ) 
S.R.O .......... In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions , issued under the provision , of 
each of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the Order of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Information and Broadoasting No. S.R.O. 945 dated the 28th 
April, 1985 the Central Governmmut with previous approval of the Film Advisory Board , 
Bombay bereby certifies the films specified in culumn 2 of the schedule hereto annexed in 
All their language versions , to be of the description specified against each in the corres , 
ponding entry of solumn 5 of the said schedule . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 11, 1956 . 


3 


SCHEDULE. 


S. No. 


Title of the 

Film . 


Nadle of tho 
l roducer . 


Source of 
Supply 


Whether a scientific film or a 
film intended for educational 
purposes or a film dealing 
with news and current events 
or a documentary film . 


! 


1 


3 


4 


5 


1 . 


Fiim dealing with Drws and 
current events . 


Indian News Govt. of India , Govt. of India 
Review No. 366 Films Division , Films Division , 
Bombay . 

Bombay. 
Nepal Road 

-do 

-do 


2 . 


1 


Documentary film . 

( 1 /16/55 - F :App /54) 


SCHEDULE. 


$ ) . 
No. 


Title of the 

tilm . 


Name of the 

producer . 


Source of 
supply . 


Whether & scientifio film 
or a film intended fur 
educational purposes or 
u film dealing with news 
and ourrent events or 
documentary film . 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


1 . 

Indian News Government of Government of Film dealing with now 
Review No. 373 India , Films India , Films and current events. 
Division , 

Division , 
Bombay . 

Bombay 
2 . Sangeet Bharat Raj Kumal 

-do 

Documentary 
Part I 

Kala Mandir 
3 . Sangeet Bharat 

-do .do 

-do 
Part II 

( 1 / 16 / 55 - F : App /61 ) 
ORDER , 

New Delbi- 2 , the 7th December , 1655 , 
S. R. O. Io exercise of the powers conferred by section 17 of the Cinematograph 
Act , 1962 (XXXVII of 1952 ), and in supera -ssion of the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. 8. R. O. 361 
dated the oth February , 1955 , the Central Government hereby exempts cinemato . 
graph exhibition of films in the premises of recognised educational institutions in all 
Part C States from the operation of section 10 of the aforesaid Act, subject to 
the following conditions, namely : 

1 . Only files of a predominantly educational nature, cortified 48 sual by 

the Central Board of Film Censors or one of the former State Boards 
or films approved as scientific filins, films intended for odunation at purposes , 
films dealing with news and current events or documentary filins approved 
by the Film Advisory Board shall be exhibited 

to be 
exbibited . 
No admission fue , except to the extent required to cover expensos, aball 
be charged . 
No person other than students and staff of the Institutions, Mombers 
of the Managing Committees of the Institutions andgets specially invi 
ted by the authorities or the lostitutious and those enumerated under 
condition ( 8 ) below shall be admitted to the show . 


Or 


permitted 


ci 


3 . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 11, 1986 . 


4 . 


5 . 


6 . 


7 . 


Only non -ioflammable films and film strips shall be exbibited or permitted 
to be exhibited . 
No advertisement films shall be exhibited or perinited to be exbibited . 
All Institutions which avail thoviselves of this exemption sall maintain 
A register of the Alms exhibited and comply with any other directions 
that may be issued in this lebalf by the State Government. 

The regis 
ter shall be open to inspection by duly authurised officers of the State 
Government. 
This exemption shall be valid fuis & period of one year with effect from 
the date of issue of this notificatiou , ainless revoked earlier . 
Employees of the State Government, members of the Central Board of 
Film Consors and its Advisory Panels and Regional & Assistant Regional 
Officers of the Board engaged in the disharge of their official duties 
shall be admitted to the plach where the exbibitions are held and to 
the film shows. 

(No. 6 /6 /55- FC . ) 

Krishon Aygar , 
Under Secretary to the Govt . of India . 


8 . 


Ν Ο Τ Ι FI Ο Α Τ ΙΟ Ν . 

Imphal, tba 3rd January , 1956 . 
No. V.7.Pross /Pub /55.- The following notifications received from the Govt , of Western 
ongal are republished for eneral inforniation . 

Gopendra Sharma, 

Publicity Officer , Manipur . 
NOTIFICATIONS. 
No. 1251 Pr./2 B - 16 /55 . – 6th December 1656 .-- In exorcise of powers conferred 
by goction 99A of the Code of Criminal Procedirn, 1898 ( Act V of 1898 ), the 
Governor is pleased to rescind notification No. 10905P., dated the 29th June 1931, 
deolaring forfeited to His Majesty , all copies, wherever found of the book in Bengali 
outitled " Satabir Sangit” , by Bibekadunda Miikhopadhyay, printed by Nishi Kanta 
Das at the Sadhana Press, Dacca and published by the author from the Bina 
Library , No. 2 , Shamacharan De Street , Caloutta . 

Ky order of the Governor, 

S. Dutt-Mazumdar , 

Dy . Secretary to the Govt. of West Bengal. 
No. 1069Pr./88/54.-26th Septeru bor 1955. - Whereas the Luglish book entitled 
“ Dark Urge " written by Robert W. Taylor and published by Pyramid Books of 
444, Maddison Avenue, New York - 32, New York , is grossly indecent and obscene 
and as such contains objectionable matter within the meaning of clause (vi) of section 
3 of the Press ( Objectionable Mutter ) Act, 195 ! ( LVI of 1961 ) ; 

And whereas the Advocate - General, West Bengal, has granted a certificate under 
section 11 of the said Aot that the said boul is grossly indecent and obscene and 
as such contains objectionable rattor within the meaning of section 3 of the said Act ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the power conferred by section 11 of the said Aot, 
the Governur is pleased hereby to declaro every copy of the said bok to be for 

feited to the Government on the ground specified of the first paragraph of this 
in notification . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 11 , 1966 . 


No. 1070Pr88 /54,26th September 1955.- Whereas the Bengali hooklet entitled 
" Massage Clinicor Nurser Chithi" ( letters of n massage olinio nurse ) purported to 
have been edited " by Peeping Tom , priated by D. Modak at Utpal Prass and pub 
lished by him from 29A Chaulpatti Road , Caloutta - 10 , is grossly indecent and obscuno 
and as such contains objectionable matter within the meaning of clause (vi) of 100 
tion 8 of the Prest ( Objectionable Mitter. ) Act, 1951 ( LVC of 1931 ) : 

Alid whereas the Advocate- General, West Bengal, has granted a certifioate under 
noction 11 of the said Aot that the said booklet is grossly indecent and abovene 
and as such contains objecti mable mutter within the mouning of section 8 of the 


sala Aot ; 


Now , tlorefore , in exercise of power conferred by section 11 of the said Aot, 
the Governor is pleased hereby to deolaro every copy of the said booklet to be 
forfeited to the Government on the ground specifies in the first paragraph of this 
aotifion tion . 

By order of the Governor , 
B.O. Ganguli, 

Deputy Secretary , 
PART IV 


1 


1 


TENDER NOTICE No. III of 1958 . 

Implial, the 3rd January , 56 . 
Sealad tenders are invited for supply of the following articles for the use of the 
Urban Junior Basic School, Imphal. Tenders will be roceived by the undersigned 
upto the 17th January , 56 during office hours and the same will be opened on the 
last date of submission of the tenders at 12 noon in the prosence of the tenderers . 
Sucoresful tenderar will have to deposit # oa ution money of Rs. 501- ( Rupeos fifty ) . 
which will ba refunded after the completion of the works . 

Full particulars will be had from the Head Mastor, Urban Junior Basic School, 
Thangmeiband Gurukul, Innphal. 

1. 20 Desks of reasoned Uningthou ( Ordinary size ) 
2 . 20. Benches of seasoned Uning thou ( Ordinary size ) 

Table with two drawers of seasoned Uuingthon ( Ordinary size ) 
4 . Cane- Seated . chair or seasoned Uningthou ( Ordinary size ) 

2 Flying looms ( Complete ) of Uningthou . 
8 Uninythou wood Choubar 

Size 12 x 2 " x 2 " . 
7 . 8 Simple wood ohoubar 

12 x 3 " x 3 " 
8 Simple wood choubar 

12 x 2 " x 2 " 
9. Uningthou wood planka 

12 x 14 " x 1" 
10 . 4 Uningthou wood planks 

12 " x 12 " x 1 " 
11. 8 Simple wood plauks 

12 x 14" x 
12. 12 Simple wood planks 

19 x 12 " x 1 " 
13. 2 Simple wood planks 

12 x 18 " x 1" 
14 . 1 Plough ( Complete ) 
16 . 1 Yoke ( Papu Complete ) 
16. 1 Harrow ( Ukai Complete ) 

L. Ch . Singh , 
Deputy Inspector of Schools , 

Manipur ( Valley ). 


5 . 


6 . 


8 . 


. 


... 


811 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 11, 1966 . 


TENDER NOTICE . 

Imphal, the Prith December , 1956. . 
No. 13 /55 / T . Bouled tenders Aro, javited for the Bilpply of the following office for 
aibuire . Tenders addressed to the District & Sessions Judge, Manipur will be received 
by the undersigned upto 11-30 d . m . of the 27th January , 1956 and will be opened 
bofore the tenderors on the same day at 1 p . m . 

Successful tenderer will have to 
deliver the furniture at his own cost , on or before 15 2-56 . Further details may 
· be had from the oflice during office hours . 
There is no obligation to accept the lowest or any tender. 
Párticulars . 

Size. 
1 Almirah 

7 * x 4 x 1.10 of Uningthou 

having 6 (six ) Shalves. 
3 Tables 

2 } 3 4 of Upingthou . 
0 Chairs 

... 

Ordinary size of Uning hou 

(Plank seated ). 
4. 1 Recker 

3 x 21 xli 
N. B. The furniture should be of good quality and well polished . 


1 . 


si 


3 . 


M. Choudhury , 

C. O. C., 
District & Sessions Court, Manipur . 


2 . 


3 . 


land 


1 


8 x 33 


:; 


1 


NOTICE No , 3 . 

Imphal, the 6tb January , 1986 . 
Sealod quotatia fur the following furniture will be received upto 21-1-86 and 
opened at that time by the undersigned . . The successful tenderers will have to deposit 
30 % of the full value as caution money . There shall be no binding to accept tho 
lowest or any tender nor assign reason tberufore . 
1 . Sobools Benches 

10 

5 x 16 " x 2 
Desk 

10 5 x 113 
Medium sized table 
4 . Big table 
6. Secretariat table 

41 x 3 ! 
6. “ Wooden chairs 

4 

with arins . 

*** 
7 . Black Board with stand 

4 x 3 
8 . Arm benches 
9. Sooretariat chair 

.. ] 
10. Rack 

6 with stairs . 
11 . Almirah 

( 1 ) with Glass (5 stairs) . 

( 2 ) Wooden (5 ! ) . 
Full partioulars may be had from the Office of the Assistant Registrar, Co -ope 
Native Societies, Manipur . 

P. C. 8. Bordoloi, 

Aybistant Registrar , 
Co -operative Scoieties, Manipur . 


1 


- 


- 


1 


MAVIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 11 , 1956 . 


17 


NOTICE . No. 18/7/62. 

Imphal, tbo 28th Docomber , 1955 . 
Applications stating ago , home address , educational qualifications , previous expe 
ridnoe in tuaching and number of living wives, if married , are invited for the 
following posts in the pay scales stated against onch of thein . Tho applications will 
be received by the undersigned on or boforo 20th January , 1966. Other things 
boing equal preference will be given to the candidates knowing one or more of 
lucal languages . Candidatos are required to attend the offide of the undersigned 
on 23rd January , 1956 at 11 A. M. fot interview with nuOOSBATY vortificates. 

1. Three poats of Head Masters one for Soalos of pay -Ro . 76 /-21-100 (EB ) 

oach of the Sirarokhong. Songtal and • 4-120 /- P. M. with D. A. 

Khangaillang M. E. Schools . 
2. Two Assistant teachers one for each of Scales of pay . Rs . 08-2-76 ( EB ) 

the Sirariskhong and Songtal M. E. -3-961- P. M. with D. A. 

Sohools . 
Minimum qualifiontions for the Head Masters should be Matric Normals or Uoder 
graduator and that of the Assistant Teachers Motrioulates. 


NOTICE No. IS / 3-111/52 . 

Impbal, the 2nd January , 1966 . 
Applications stating age , educational qulifications, previous experienoo, and the qum 
ber of wives , if married , are invited for a tonporary post of an under- graduato teacher 
for the Ukbrul Govt. High School in the scale of pay Rs.75.120 /- p . m . with usual 
D. A. and will be received by the undersigned during office hours up to 20th January , 
1986 . 

Preference will due given to those who passert the I, Sc. Exanipution with Matbe 
matics and Biology as their subjects . 

K. Goura Singh , 
Inspootor of Schools, Manipur. 


NOTICE No. 1 . 

Iruphul, the 7th January , 1966 . 
Applications : te invited for 10 candidates to undergo a training course of 6 months 
in the CJ-operative Training Institute , Manipur . Mauimum qualification required in 
at least Matriculation . The traineos will get a stipend of Rs. 40 /-p . m . and will 
bo required to stay at Imphal during the period of training . The selected caudi 
dates will have to sign a bond to the effect that they would serve at any place 
within the the State for at least a year on resonable remuneration as offion bearers 
of any Co -operative Institution . The Mupplioants should appear for an interview 
on 19-1-505 at 10 A. M. in the office of the Assistint Registrar, Co -operative Socio 
ties , with original certifica ! es . 

The applications will be rec - ive ? by the undersigned upto 16th January, 1966 
during oftion houra . 

P. C. 8. Borduloi , 

Assistant Registrar , 
Co-operative Societies, Manipur. 


Suportintendent, 
Co-operative Training Institute , Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 11, 1066 


1 


- 


NOTICE. 

Imphal, the Buth December, 1956 . 
No. DVC /EST /1/55/96 . Applications are invited for the undermentioned posts in 
the Developinent (OP & NES ) Department and will be received in the office tilt 
January 14 , 1956 : 
(a ) One Lower Division Assistant- cum Candidates should be Matrioulates of recog 

typist in the pay - scale of Rs.40-2 mised University and should have a fairly 
50 - EB - 3-80 - EB - 4.100, with usual speed in typing : 

dearners allowance . 
( b) Two Muhorrirs ( Civil) in the pay- Minimum educational qulification is Sobvol 

scale of H.40-2-60-3-751. plus usual Leaving Certificate or equivalent of a re 
dearness allowance . 

cognised University . 
Relaxation can be made in the case of those who have acquired practical ex 
porience in field works and slementary knowledge of civil engineering . Preference 
will be given to those who have the requisite qualification and experience in field works. 
(0 ) Your Drivers of vehicles in the pay . Oandidates should be Licentiates in driving 

scale of Rs.50-3-80 / - plus usual dear and should have enough knowledye and ex 
ness allowanoo . 

porionce of proper mriptenance of Jueps . 
( d ) One cleaner of vebicles in the pay Preference will be given to Licentiate 

scale of of Rs.22-1-28 /- plus usual drivers. 

dearness allowance. 
( e ) Two Grado IV Government servants Candidates should have passed Olass VI 

(Offich Messengers ) in the pay - scale standard of a recognised High School. 
of Pts.22 . 1-28 /- plus usual duarness 

allowaạce. 
2. Applications should state (1) full name and address , (2) date , place and di 
triot of birth , ( 3) whether married or single , if murried , number of wives living 
children , ( 4 ) father s name and profession , ( 5 ) educational qualifications indicating 
the examinations " passed , class or division in which " passed , etc. (li) previous experi 
ence, indicating post held , salary drawn , period of service , re 180118 for leaving the 
job , and (7 ) details of experience in rural aruas . 

3 . l reference will uløɔ be given to candidates who know one or more of the 
local languages. Candidates are to attend selection test at their own expense if they 
are required to . 

V. S. Sundaram , 

Development Commissioner, Manipur . 
NUTICE No. Est,74 . 

Imphal, the 9th January , 1966 . 
Notice is heruhy given for general information that ono Typist at the scale of 
Rs. 41.- 2-50 (EB ) -8-806EB )-4-100/- p . in . plus usual allowance will be , employed in the 
Office of the undersigned as a substitute upto the 15th April 1966 . 

Willing person18 way apply to the undersigned on or before 23rd January 1958 . 

None voud apply who is not watriculate of a recognised University and who has 
not good experience of typing. 

Y. Tombi Singh , 

Executive Engineer , 
(Irrigation Division ), P.W.D. Manipar. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 11, 1956. 


21 


: 


Imphal, the 26th December , 1.955 . 
* Suhject :-RAINFALL DATA FOR TAN MONTH OF JULY , 1955 . 
( in ) Statement showing the total rainfall for Hach raingauge station for 
July , 1955. 
( 1 ) Civil Hospital raingauge station 

12.13 " 
( 2 ) Cantonment area 

13.77 " 
13) Kangchupkhul 

17.89 " . 
( 4 ) Tamenglong 

36 93 
(1 ) Number of raiuy days on which 0.10 " ( 0 cents ) or more has fallen for 
each station , 
( 1) Civil Hospital 

18 days . 
( 2 ) l antonment area . 
( 3) Kangchupkhul 

21 
(4 ) Tamenglong 

28 
(o ) Strtament showion , rainfall of 0.10 " or over with accounts in the proceding 
and following 24 hours during the month . 
District , Station . 

Wate 

Amount of pre- Og date in Succreding 
ceding day . col. 2 . 

ray . 


-- 


Manipur . Civil Hospital. 


0.48 " 
0.40 " 

X 


1-7-55 
4-7-55 
7-755 
11-7 - .75 
14-7-55 
17-7-5 ) 
211-7-55 
23.7-55 
30-7-07 


0.1" 
2.13 " 
0.60 " 
0.30 " 
0.10 " 
0.6 . " 
0.:10 ." 
0.44 " 


х 
(1.37 " 
0.34 " 
( 1.24 " 

х 
10.8" 
0.10 " 
0.2 " 
0.12 " 


(0.98 " 


0.1 % 


Cantonment. 


9.17 " 
0.57" 
1.79 " 
(9.37 " 


2-7-55 
:) . 7-15 
8-7-55 
11-7-55 
11-7-5 .; 
233.7-55 
25-7-53 
28-7-15 
30-7-55 


0.3.1 " 
1.10 " 
0.34 " 
1.73 " 
1.34 " 


1.2" 
0.45 " 
0.76 " 
0. ) 1 " 
0.74 
0.61" 
0.41" 
0.11 " 


0 88 " 
(1.21" 


Kangchup 

khul 


(1.50 " 
2.00 " 
0..1 " 


0.55 " 
0,30 


1-7-55 
4-7-53 
7-7-55 
10-7-55 
15-7-55 
18-7-55 
28-7-55 
25-7-65 
28-7.55 


1.32 " 
1.610 
0.50 " 
0.90 " 
0.88 " 


3.30 " 


(1.40 " 
1.511 " : 
0.20 " 


() .50 " 
0.00 " 
11.50 
0.90 " 
11.14 " 


1.50 
1.10 
0.0" 


Tarnenglong 


29-7-555 

0.99" 1.81" 

1.21" 
5-7 55 

0.89 " 0.25 " 

0.68 " 
8-7-55 

1.58 " 3.88 " 

0.28 " 
14-7-55 

3.08 " 0.45 

1. 3 
17-7-55 

0.92" ( 1.84 " 

1.47 
20-7.65 

0.77 " 0,73 " 

0.75 " 
23-7-5.5 

0.46 " 0.41 " 

2.88 " 
26-7-55 . 

1,26 " 2.00 " 

0,83" 
29.7-86 

0.10 " 

G. H. Singh , 
Asstt . Secretary (WAF ) to the Govt . of Maripo . 


10 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 11, 1966. 


-- 


KOMCE No. IS , 4-1 /52 . 

Imphal, the 9th January , 1956 . 
Applications stating age , qualifications , previous experience , home address and 
number of living wives , if married are invited for a temporary post of & Hindi 
knowing teacher for the Bhairodan Hindi M. E. School in the scale of pay , Rs . 75 
120 ;- with D. A. and will be received by the indurzigned upto the 24th January , 
1966. Candidates must have passed tho Intermediate and the Vishard Exaroinations 
in Hindi , Other things being equal preference will be given to the candidate who 
knows one or more of local languages . Candidates are required to attend the office 
of the Inspector of Schools on 

on the 27th January at 10 A. M. with necessary 
certificates for interview . 

K. Goura Singh , 
Innnector of School , Manipur . 


NOTICE No. Est / 75 . 

Imphal, the 9th January , 1936 . 
Applications stating , age , Home Address, full namie , nationality, academic qualification , 
whether married and if so the number of wives are invited for 5 to nporarıy posts of 
Muhorrirs in the scale of Rs, 40-2-80/-p.m . plus usual allowances so as to reach the 
undersigned on or before the 23rd January , 1966 . 

None need apply who is not a matriculate of a recognised University . If the 
applicant is a Gort , employee he should approach through proper channel. 

Other things being equal, preference will be given to persons who know one or 
more of the local languages and are familiar with local conditions. 

Y. Toribi Singh , 

Executive Engineer, 
( Irrigation division ), P.W.D. Mantpur. 


P’RESS NOTE . 


Imphal, the 6th January , 1956 . 

Federation of British Industries Scholarships 1956 . 
The Foderation of the British lodustries in the United Kingdom have offered 
overseas scholarships for practical Training of Indian Engineers in the British Indus 
tries , in defferout branches of Engineering . Of these 6 scholarships 3 will be fully 
paid (A type) and 3 divided between types B & C . 

years and 6 to 12 months for 
Typochalarini B Sahalarabips are tenable for two 
type 

scholarships .. Maintenance allowance to the value of £ 390 por annum ( £ 420 
if the works to wbich the scholar is attached is within the London postal area ) . 
for Types A and B and £ 500 for Type C will bo given . In case of Types B 
and of tbe scholars have to make a contribution of £ 100 per annum towards 
maintenance . Passage expense for all types of scholarships will be borne by the 
Foderation and the Govt . of ludia . 

Applicants must bold a degree or an equivalent diploma in engineering , Tbe 
last date of receipt of applications in she Ministry of Education , Soholarships Divi 
sion , Government of India , New Delhi is 81. l . 19.16 . 

Necessary particulars regarding the scholarships and copies of the application forms 
can be had from the Government of India , Ministry of Education , Scholarships 
Divisions. Seotion 8-1 New Delhi and may also be seen from the voice of the 
Amiotant /Secretary Educatiou to the Government of Manipur. 

Gopendra Sbarma , 
Publicity Officer , Manipur . 


ME 


MANIPUR GAZETTE ," JANUARY 11, 1966 . 


11 


NOTICE. 

Imphal, tlie 26th December , 1955 . 
No. T / 39,55 :-- Souled tenders will be received from the experi:noed contractors 
upto 12 Noon of 20-1-50 in his office by the Executive Engineer, Irrigation Divi 
mion , Imphal for the undermentioned works. Details my he made Available from 
the office of the undersigned during ollice hours. 
Name of work 

Estimated cost . 

Earnest money 
Construction of Quartors for 

Rs. 81,392/ 

Rs. 2,050 / 
Officers in Manipur No. 
1,2,3 and at 4 Imphal. 

Y. Tombi Singh . 

Executive Engineer , 
Irrigation Division : Manipur . 


Imphal, the 10th January , 1956 . 
No. K.CS /32 /55 . Auction will be held daily , except on holidays and Sundays from the 
11th January , 1956 till further notice by the State Trading Officer of the Manipur Gover 
ment at his office at 3 P.M. for sale and export of rice from the stocks procured by the 
Manipur Government. The exact quantity to be put up for sale will be announced by the 
State Trading Officer every day at the auction . The State Trading Officer is i:ot bound 
to accept the highest or any tender ; no bids less than Rs. 10 /- por maund will however be 
ontertained . 

2. All bidders must deposit an amount of Rs . 500)/ . each before they can be allowed to 
participate in the auction . Bids will be confirmed or rejected by the State Trading Officer 
on the day of suction and suocessfull bidders must deposit the entire bid money within 24 
bours and clear the stocks within 3 days of confirmation of the bids. Further details may 
be obtained from the State Trading Officer. 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


8 


Imphal, the 4th January , 1956 . 
The following programme is published for general information . 

Gopendra Sharma , 

l ublicity ( fficer, Manipur, 
TOUR PROGRAMME OF MOBILE DISPENSARY EASTERN HILL RANGE 

FOR THE MONTH OF FEBRUARY , 1956 . 

( Ukhrul & Sedar Tengpoupal Area ). 
1 - % - 56 . Aishi to Kbongkanthana . 

. 11 miles . 
2-2-56 . 

Halt 
3-2-56 . 

Khongkan thana to Nampisha . 
42-56 . 

Halt . 
6-2-56 . 

Nampisha tro Kamtony . 
8. - 56 . Kamtong to Khonglo Tangkhul 

9 
7-2.56 . 

Ha t . 
8-2-56 . Khonglon "langkhul to Moluon 

12 
9-2-86 . Molnon to Kusom Khulen . 

42 
10-2-56 . 

Halt . 
11-2-56 . 

Kasomkbulen to Natjang . 
12-2-56 . Natjang to Sanaching Tangkhul. 

10 
18-2-50 , 

Sanaching to Vajang . 
14-2-56 . 

Vajang to Tollen . 
18-2-66 . 

Halt . 
16-2-66 . Tollen Ho Imphal. 

36 


an 


1 


MANIPUR GAZETTE ,. JANUARY 11, 1965 . 


নােটিশ নং ৩০ 

ত ৩০• ১২-৫৫ইং 
অসিনা মরম ওইদুনা প্রজা পুমমা খহজরি । মরমদি — শখােং ধুমধােম অসি তাং ১৫১৮৫৬ ইংলগ তা 
৩৫৭ ইং ফাওবা ধুম বনবগীদমক ফোরেষ্ট অফিক্তা তাং ২০১l৫৬ ইংগী নুংথিল পুং অমা তাবা মতমদা নিলাম 
তোলা যােনজগনি । অসিদা ওকপিগে হায় মীনা মত চানা লাক্তন মখাগী নিয়মশিং অসিগ ৯ ই নিলাম 
ওপির য়াগনি । 

নিলাম সুমিত্তা শেপ শুনা থাবিগদবনি । নিলাম । শিংপা শেলনা লুপা ৫০০ ( চামঙ ) হেদি কিস্তি লে কারোই । 

আরনেষ্ট মনি ওইনা অশিৎপা শেলঙ্গ নুপা ১০ ( চা ) দা তরাগী হিংদা ইক্ষাল বেরিদা গম্বীরুগদবনি অদুগা 
চলান কোর্স অ অফিস্তা পিবিগদবনি । 

নিলাম একপা দুমিণী চয়ােল অমর্গ মনুদা অফিস্যা লাকতুন পাঠা সহি তৌবিরগদবনি, অদুগা পাট্টাগী মসুইয়া 
ৰক বিগবনি । 

নিলামদা শিৎপা শেলগ মথুক্তা সরকারী অনে বা নিয়ম মতু ইন্না লুপা অমদা পৈশা অনির্গ হিল শেল টেম 
পৰিগদবনি । অকুল্লা মরােল অফিল্ড হবিরবা মিগনি । ইতি 

সহি - আর, কে , বি , সি , সিহ 
ফোরেষ্ট অফিসার, মণিপুর । 


নােটিশ ১১ নং 


তা ২২১২৫৫ ইং । 


অসিনা সরম ওইদুনা মঘােল পঞ্চায়গী এলাকাদা লৈ প্ৰজা পুমা খংহৰি : -মাদি তাং ২৮১ ৫৬ ই থাংক 
সুশিকী অমুক পুং ১২ তা মতমদা নঘােল পঞ্চায়গী মেম্বর অমা মিরেপ 

মিরেপ ভেদুনা 

তেদুনা হাপকনি । ওইবিগে হায় 
এলাে তাং ২৫১৫৬ ইং মুশকৈশ সুবিৎকী নুংথিল পুং অমা তাৰ ফাওবগী মনুদা ভিঞ্চি এও 

সেনস কোঠা 
অয়খ থাবিয়শদৰনি । দরখাতা মশা - মশাগী চহি হাপকদৰনি । দরখাস্তা মাগী মাগী এজেন্ট ওইনন । মী অনিন 
মি যাপকনি। লাইৰিক হৈ মী ওইদি দরখাস্থ অধু মশা মশান। ইগনি। খস্থ থাবা মতমদা মণ 
অশানা লাভূনা থাগদবনি । অদুগা কেণ্ডিদেটশিংনা উক্ত তাদা হায়বদি তাং ২৮।১৫৬ ইং থাংজ সিংকী অরুক 
১২ বা মতমদা নম্বােল পঞ্চায়গী মনা মাগী মাগী মীরেপ ভেননবা নীশি গা ললাইন লৈবিরমগদৰনি । 
মশিং থাবা 

মশা নগা মাগী এজেন্ট নগা মশা এজেন্ট য়াওগদবনি । দরখাস্থ থাবিবশিংলা 
তাং ২৫১১l৫৬ ইং য়ুমশকৈশ মিৎকী দুংথিল পুং অমা তব মতমদা মাগী মাগী দরখাস্তা হায়রি অদু চুষ । 
হায়দা য়েংগনৰগীদমক ডিষ্ট্রিক এণ্ড সেসনস কোট্টা লাকপিগদলনি । ইতি 
N. B.-দরখাস্থতা নােটল নর, 

মশা মশাগী সৈফম শেংনা হপ্লিাগ - বনি । নবলক ওইরিবণিংলা ভােটর 
২ কারােই । 


মমদ 


Sd / Illegible . 
C. 0. C. Dist . & Session Court , Manipis . 


অসিনা মম ইদুনা খংহল্লি : -শোক ১৯৫৪-৫৫ইংদা টুরিং ডিসপেগৰিগীদমক্তা কমপাইগুর, ইতর , ক্লিন 
অং পিয়ন ওগে হাইদুনা দরখাস্ত থাখিবা পুমা ঐগী অফিস ভাং ১৮১-৫৬ইগ পুং ১০ বা ইন্টাভিউ 
যা সার্টিফিকেটচিংবা , চেগা ললাইন লাৰুদবনি ইত। তাং ২-১-৫৬ইং । 

সহি - নবযু রায়, 
চিফ মেডিকেল অফিসার, মণিপুর । 


Imphali- Printod and published , by , ine superintendent Government Press O. 121 / 11-1-56. 


Manipur 


Gazette 


Poha 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 50 


Imphal, Wednesday , January 18 , 1956 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 


1 to 


Part 1.-- Appointments, Hostings, Transfors , lowers, 

Leave and other personal prices , 
Part 11.--- Rovolutions , Regulations, Orer , Netiri 

cations, Rules ecc . 


Pirt 11. - Orders , Notificutloos, Rules of 

the ( iovernment of India , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Noticos eto . 


Nil 


3 to 19 


2 103 


PART 1 


GOFCANMENT OF LANT UR . 


Orders by the ( hief Commissioner . 


Topnal, the i3th January . 1956 . 
No. F - DPC 2 55 , A.- In the post preistrid under this Administration Order of 
van No , dlated 290 ) October , 5905 Ilie Chief Cummi.si ner is pleased to appoint 
Shri Harilev Marin , B. Sc , as Statistical flicer in the scale of Rs . 150-150-200 
( l on ) - 01-261)-EI - 111-3010-12-75 - EB - 17-450);- with usud dearness allowance from the 
dute wf juining up the 2 :1th February , 1:56 . 

7. Beperint , 
Ferritiry to the liovt . of Manipur . 


Imphal, ihr: 12011 January , 1956 . 
No. FA 2 54.c - . Chiefiniticajner is please let grant Shri L. H. Ibinubul Sinth 
Lulely re-emploped its 1)i- trio : * Sooss.ish : Jul , Vioripur varnind li sVis for 3 dins iroda 
1:39.5.1 wodz. th Revisedd Lotter , Rules 19:33 us lits, ralisan from 1.3.44. 


! nifibral the atlı - 20 :11Y , 111,34 ;. 
No. R 4.51 136 , - Tlie ( liet fomnissiuneris ; ! 

Cer] + ) Onler iltiet sliri Vitrikiatr 
Singh , S. D. C. wil hoolit 11111 , 0 :1 ? x charge of this wet of 3 1 : 1 ). Il clindpur 
during the alsuce of in r ?gitlir incorporedresint ou Cons of criminier u 2011vey 
& $ . ttlemons in the US $ 2112 SHP Ucy Sobool ini :) halakri. 

Shri Nabakum :I Singh will how . Voir cnti:, 11 to 10 ils it gib - Deputy- ode : or. 


2 


A. R. Ray , 
Chif Secrtilly to the loovt. of Manipur. 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 18 , 1956 . 


1 


Imphal, the 10th Jannary , 1956 . 
No. R /4 :51 / 138. - The Chief ( omissioner is pleased to order that Shri Kh . Gokulchand 
Singh , 3.1).C ., Imphal East Toshil will hold char e of Thoulal Tashil , in addition to his 
own duties during the absence of Shri A. Hislina Chowdhury , S.D .: ., Thoubal Tabsil , depu 
ted to undergo a course of Survey & Settlomónt- Tiaining in the Assam Survey School at 
Jhalukbari.. 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Sec : etary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


PART 1 

Imphal, the ioth January , 1956 . 
No. R / 4 /51 / 140. - Tho Chief Cominissioner is ple 18ed to decide that the following 
Officers of the Revenue Department should be attached to the Assium Survey School at 
Jhalukbari from the 19th of December , 1955 till completion of the current course in the 
Sehool for training in Survey and Settlement. 

1 . Shri K. Kipgen , E.A.C. 

S.D.O., Churaohandpur . 
Shri A. Halim Chowdhury , S.D.O. 
S.D.C. i/c Thoubal Tasbil . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


2 . 


2 


NOTIFICATION . 

Shillong , the 5th January , 1954). 
Subject :-Draft corrections to the Cintral Govt. Compilation of Treasury Rules 

Vol I First Edition Second Reprint. 
No. TM.14 /55/38 . – Advance copies of draft corrections to the CentralGovt. compi 
lation of treasury Rulos Vol I First Edition Second Reprint are published below 
for information of all Treasury and Sul - Trendury Officers and Central Heads of 
Department. 

Draft corrections to the Central Govt. Compilation of Treaenry Rules Vil I First 
Edition ( Second Reprint). • 

No. 183 
Pag . 224 -Rulo 725 

Delete the full stop at the end of the sentence and add the following after 
the word risk . 
" as far as possible " . 

No. 201 
Page 217-Rulo 701 ( i ) 

Insert the fullowing after the first Sentence as a sub- paragraph . 

" When the remittance is not at railway risk , a potdar may accompany a remit 
tanoo of nickel, bronse or conper coin but he sbould not be required to watch 
the detailed examination of such remittance . On receipt of the remittance, the boxes 
should be opened immediately and the bags taken out after which the potdar should 
be relieved . If, however , 

If, however, any bag containing coins shows signs of damage or of 
having been tempered with , it should be opened and its contents examined in his 
presence . " 

No. 202 
Page 219 -Rule 708 

In line 5 after the word " treasury ” add " or if the potdar has been discharged 
in term of Rule 701( 1 ) " . 

H. S. Samuel, 
Doputy Accwuptant General ( 1 ), Assam . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 18, 1966. 


3 


Imphal, the 11th January , 1956 . 
No. FA /93/51. - In exercis .) of the p.wers conferred by para 3 of the Gunaral Financial 
Rules volume 1 and in partial modification of this Secretariat order No. F.1 /9.3/51/ 32 dated 
the 14th Votober, 19.13 the Chief Commissioner is pleased to declara tho D : puty Superin 
tendent of Police No. 1 as the Head of Office of the Civil Police ( Unarmed Branch ) . 

H. R. Singh , 
Asstt . Secretary (GIL ) to the Govt. of Manipur. 

Imphal, the 13th January , 1966 . 
No. R / 21 /51 138. -The Chief Coinmissioner is pleased to sanction the de - reser . 
vation of Fishery No. 191 Irun Tural fioin the Register of Govt. fisheries with 
effect from 1st February, 1956 for settlement with landless villagers. 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


PART IV 

Imphal, the 12th January , 1956. 
No. V.7 Pross / Pub /55 , III - The following Press Note issued by the Union Public . 
Service Commission , Now Delhi is republished for general information , 

Gopendra Sharma , 

Publicity Officer , Manipur. 
PRESS NOTE . 
RECOGNITION OF CAMBRINGT HIGHER SCHOOL CERTIDICATH . 
In a Press Note dated January 19 , 1955 , the Union Publio Service Commission announced 
their decision to withdraw recognition of the Cambridge Higher School Certificate as an 
alternative qualification for candidates for the Indian Police Sorvice , recruitment to which 
is made from the Indian Administrative Service etc. examination . It was announced that 
the withdrawal would be effective froni the examination to be held in 1956 . 

The Union Public Service Commission have considered this matter agaiu and have now 
decided to postpone the implementati in of this decision for the time being . Accordingly 
the Cambridge Higher School Certificate oxainination will be recognised as an alternative 
qualification for recruitment to the Indian Police Service by examination in 1956 and 
thereafter until a fresh announcement is made . 


Iniphal, the 26th Decenuber, 1956 . 
No. 13.55 ; T. Sealed tedders are invited for the supply of the following office furniture . 
Tenders addressed to the Distriot & Sessions Judge, Manipur will be received by the under 
rigned upto 11-30) A.M. of the 27th January , 1956 and will be opened before the tenderors 
on the same day at 1 P.M. Su. cossful tenderer will have to deliver the furniture at his 
own cost on or before 15-2-58 . Further details may be had from the office during office 
hours . 
There is no obligation to accept the lowest or any tender. 
Particulars . 

Size . 
1 . 1 Almirb 

7 }" x 4 x 1 - 10 " of Uning thou having 6 ( six ) shalves. 
9 Tables 

21 3 X 4 of Uning thou . 
8. 6 Chairs 

Ordinary size of Uvingthou (Plank Seated ). 
4. 1 Reoker 

8 x 25 x 1 } . 
N.B. The furniture should be of good quality and well polisbed . 

M. Chiudhury, C.O.C. 
District & Sessions Court, Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 18 , 1956. 


N O TIC E. 


Imphal, the 10th January , 1956 . 
Applications from bonafied citizens of India stating age, qualifications and previous 
experiences, if any, are invited for the temporary post of one Assistant Engineer in the 
Electricity Dispartruent for the Givernment of Manipur in the scale of Rs. 2011-15-275 (EB ) 
20-375-25-40 1: - plus D.A. at 17 % of piy. 

Candidates should be wither graduates in Electrical Engineering with two years practical 
experience or Licentiates in Electrical Engineering with 5 years practical experie..ce. Highor 
initial puy may be given to specially qualified candidates. Selected candidate will be paid i A. 
to join post . Applications with copies of certificates, testimonials otc ., wiil be reci : ved by 
the undersigned on or befvre the 25tli January , 1950 . ( andidates should be prepared to 
como to Imphal at their own oxpenses for an interview iſ required , and in case of -election 
should be able to join iinmediately . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chict Secretary to the Govt . of 11a ; ipur, 


NOTICE No. 5 . 

Imphal, the Ilth January , 1956 . 
Applications from Graduates with knowledge and idea on co -operatiin , will briseivoil 
by the undersigued upto 20-1-50 to select a suitable person for training in Pruna ( o - spora 
tive College for a period of 4 months on Co -operative Agricultural Marketing . Selected 
Ciuudidate will be required to execute a bond thirt he is propared to surve either in the 
Co - operativ : Department or in Co -operative Marketing Society on r.asonable remuneration 
for at legut a piriod of 2 years if he is app.jated by the li: vt. On selection jp will be 
requirir tu prucoed to Poona inmediatoly for tr.sinin ... The trainee wll sat His . 50 /- p.rn. 
and free training , T.A. for jouracy . Further particuliers 01! ise ole ained fron the vifios.sf 
the undersi , ned . 

P. C. S. Bordolvi , 

Ay istant Registrar , 
C. -4perative Societi::$, Tanipur. 


PRESS NUTE . 
VET !IM OF EVIMINATION POR ADMISSION TO SANIK 
SCITOUWILHULÝ ROWN IS PR . 

NE OF W :LS 
MILITARY COLECE . DLIR DUN . 


The Governinont of India afuer suv consider ,tion of the mit or de decided that the 
modinun of ontmnce ( Ximiration to the Soin k School houkl not le Cioarred at present 
bit the wright-age given to Englislı ( viz ... 170 marks for the written t st and : 30 marks for 
the interijew ) should be recluce : as indicated below winde that of rit :2 ;.mic . ill Twin 
unnitercd . 


l otal 


Englislı – written papars 

125 marka 
Interview designed primarily to test the intelligence , 

personality , suneral knowledge * te . o ? audites 
and not profiiit:ncy in Enxlish 

15 in rka 

200 m : arks . 
The above change will be brought into forct from the next exiniination for admission to 
the August 1936 term at the school. 

( opendra Sharma, 
l ublicity . Offioer, Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , J. \ NUARY 19 , 1956 . 


or Rs 


reasons 


NOTIFIC TION NO . 1 . 

Imphal, the 2nd January , 1950 . 
Notice of sale of Government fisheries in Minipur for the yer 19.16-17 . 

It is hereby notifind , for goneral inforination , that the Government fisheries in Manipur 
details of which are enclosa 11,970 with in Innerurs ( 1) , will be sold by public auction , at 
the Office of the Driputy l ommissioner, Manipur , at Implant 11 A. 1 , on 7-2-56 and the 
subsequent days ( except on public hiclays ) for a periid one year (i. e . froin 1-4-56 to 
31-3-67) the term of the last settlement bing due to expire on 31-3.50 . Intending pur .. 
chasers are juvited to be present in the days fixed and bid for the fishery mahals. 

The sale will be made subject to the following conditions : 

( 1 ) The Officer conducting the sale dors not bind himself to acoept the highest bid 
or any bid an l regarves discretion 10 illictim the settlement for either a longer or a shortor 
term than that specified above. Successful bidder will be required to produce a silvency 
certilicate before his bid is contirmail . 

( 2 ) The purchaser sh ] inimediately after acceptanch of his bid , wheru the bid 
Axreds Rs 100 - furnish is security i Aum equal to one quarier of it ymar s revenne 

100 .. whichever is ( 1204 greator, od shall require io furuis within 7 duys 
of the date of sale additional security to the sati: fui;tion of the Deputy Cimmiisi 
oner , 8 ) as to bring up the total imut of the security to one third of the revenue 
fur the full term uſ the sitedin int. If 12+ bit is Rs. 100 : 

100 : - or le - s , the entire 
bid amount must be paid impediriely after accrptance of the bid . 

IC he fails to furnish the initial or the additional security as prescrilied bove 
the fiwlery shall bor -s ! at his risk in the former ons , forthuitl: ; in je later 
casa , after issue of the notice prescribed by Rule 185 : and in eit ber cakt : he shall 
be bound to niak voor the difference between his lid and the amount realisd by 
the subs que st sile , alculated on the whole period of settlenient : 
Providers that the Deputy Commissioner may , for special 

require him 
to mike.good only the difference between buis bid for one year of the settlement 
and the amount realis I fir that period by the subsequent sale . 

(3 ) If the purchaser fails to execute a counterpart within one month from the 
date of auction the fishery all lors re -solul ut his risk and he shall loro bound to 
mike yond the dillerence lontwren his bid and the resourit i calised by the sulisequent 
sile , calculatind on we whole pariuri of settlement : 

Provident thai the Deputy Commissioner Muay , for social reasons , require him to 
zwak med only the cliflerence betwern bis bid four one year of the settlement and 
amount realised for that period loy the subsequent sale . 

( 4 ) li the purchaser fails to ) ( X [ counterpart within one month of the date 
of tive uction , De he fails to vi inglloing which dep is requirea ur bund unier 
sub -pariurpis , and ( 3) ishe time Deputy Commissioner inny further direct that 
be whal indso l rfeit ll .. security furnished , if any , or any portion of it . 

( 5 ) Every lessee should pay hulf of one year s repere op or lefore the 15th 
May ani the termining luar or before the 31st July . 

The sun furnished is purity Wap piha 2 ) above shall be adjustid nyajist 
the last instalmont pavalle during the lease (vide Giovernment of Minipur Notifica 
tion to . 13 ! vill 5.1 50.) 

In tbe river fisheries commonly 1tsert boy the proble: for marination no inund .f my 
k nimy be constructed and use oo 37:21::2ja ! Briving mesto or less than inchqare is 
prohibri... ( !! ) the case of Rs. 1o. lit Sapat . Fs. 

Ni 
lisamli, No 8 Tango 
and ly. No. 1:28 Lasten af section of lishing bond is id Weal irfter the 154.11 October ). 

(7) " Lissues of 1.7dtish.jer s10.1 . knep the fishesive sleir of winter lacinia 

si special condition to lipoliz ved by the les.ces live ditter 27 tisseries will 
he anchez - 17 inmediato:ly wore the sale of t ie fisheries concerned nel will be 
recorded in ile hid Registry . 

( 9) Should the lesson or any Zorit of his infringe any of the condi ions of !.is 
lease the Deputy Commissir (ou may canceil the least in which :2-44 all rame paid 
luy the lessoe on acount of the fish ry will los forfeited 

Plic les rc 

will be 
Jiubile from any loss incurred by Governm “ nt.. in the re.srtteme it of the fisiery . 

Tie Bretlenient will be suloject to the approval of the Chief Commissionet , 
Manipur . 

V. S. Sundaram , 
Dtputy Commissioner , Manipur . 


011 


1. 


& 1.0 


B 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 18 , 1056 . 


1. EXTR . 


Fixed for sale on 7-2-56 Tuosday . 


Serial 
No. 


Finlicry 
NO , 


Name and licetin of the fish Ty . 


! lerin und price for Name o ! the 

which lasi buld . Trstvee with 
toundary . 

non it was 

last settled . 
Turm . Price . 


ON 


3 


€ 


{{ * . 


1 


1 


Sinom Turel , Sinam village, N. I . 


35 


To We gern One 
from the 
DC s office : year. 
or will be 
pryclaimed 
before the 
Nale lovins. 


To be reen 
í from the 

D ) .C s olhce 
Or will be 
proclalmed 
liefore the 
sale begins. 


! 


2 


2 


33 


Konghu Itup , Kongle Maru , N. P. 
Khundrakpam Itup , Konglia river, 
Kbundiakpam portion , N. P. 


3 


3 


2 


7 


Leikiothabi Itup , N. P. 


11 


6 


co 


Awang potsunglam Itup , N. P. 


25 


9 


Potsung bam Thourifi Itup , N. P : 


3 :3 


10 


Khonghan pat Itup , Imphal river , N.P. 


70 


6 
7 
8 

9 


JI 


Koirengei Itup, Imphal rivor, N. P. 


10 


14 


Tingri Turel Amanbi 


10 


15 


40 


11 


18 


Kunto Itup, Leimukhong Turel , N. P. 
Tendongyan Itup , N. 1 . 
l heidinga Itup, N. P. 


11 


12 


17 


12 


13 


18 


Khonghampat Itup Loimakhyag Turel, 

N. P. 


id 


12 


14 


19 


40 


Khurkhul Itup , Luwangli Turel 
Loitang Likinthabi Itup N. P. 


16 


20 


34 


16 


21 


102 


Loitang Kbulen Saudum Itup 
Khamaral Itup , Luwangli river N. P : 


17 


22 


30 


18 


23 


30 


Kumong Itup Luwangli river, N. P. 
Soirelkloug , Loitang Sandum . N. P. 


19 


24 


335 


26 


25 


Sala ! Turel, Loitang Khurau 


45 


21 * 


2 


Singtha Itup , N. P. 


15 


22 


29 


Akham Itup , Nambol river 


16 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 18 , 1955 . 


Fixed for Sale on 7-2-56 Tucsday . ( Contd ) 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


23 


30 


Lemlongei Itup , Abálok Turel, N.l . 


KR. 
10 


To be reen One 
iruin the 
D.C s office year . 
or will be 
proclaimid 
Heiore the 
yale begins, 


To lie ieen 
fron tho 
D.C yooo 
or will be 
proclulined 
bezore tha 
sale begins . 


31 


Laireakabi ſtup , N. P. 


No bid 


26 


32 


Heibong pokpi Itur , Alalok Turel, falling 
into Nambul river . 


10 


25 


33 


Kadangpal Itup, N. P. 


10 


27 


34 


Atomkhumal Itup. 


20 


28 


35 


Kangdahi Itup , Maklang Turel, N. P. 


10 


29 


36 


32 


Maklang Itup 
Nguirang bam Itup 


80 


37 


No bid 


> 


31 


38 


Khumbony Itup. 


10 


19 


32 


40 


Awang Jiri Itup , Mahlang Turel. 


No bid 


33 


41 


Namlıol Itup , Namlıol Turol 


34 


Sagollok Tutel , Khaidern Itup. 


10 


35 


431 


Moitang pok Khunow Turel. 


10 


36 


44 


Jumphulham Heikrujum . 


9 


Nu bid 


37 


45A 


Kbabi Khungbal, Thangtek Meitei 
portion 


ed 


33 


4B 


Khabi Khougbal, Thangtek Naga 
portion . 
Khabi Khonghal, Thangtok Klabi 
portion . 


39 


450 


14 


40 


45D 


Khabi Khongbal, Khaidom village 
portion . 


12 


41 


45E 


17 


Khubi Khongbal, Konthoujam village 
portion . 


42 


46 


100 


Morakhong Yarou Bamdiar , Aballup 
Itup . 
Lansonbi Itup 
Salam keikhu ,, 
Haorang 


3 


43 


47 


Nupi Hiden Pathabi N. P. 


No bid 


60 


Merakhong , Kodompokpi, A. P. 


:: 


10 


8 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 18 , 1956 . 


Fixod for Sale on 7-2-56 Tuesday . ( Contd .) 


6 


6 


1 


2 


4 


3 


R. 
20 


45 


51 


Merakhong , Lairenjam village A. P. 


One 
year , 


To be geen 
from the 
D. C s office 
or will be 
proclaimed 
before the 
sale begins . 


46 


52 


To be sceni 
from thc 
DO s office 
or will be 
proolaimed 
before the 
sale leginu . 


Merakhong Wikching Khulen A. P. 


.80 


47 


50A 


Waic.:1 Itup , Ningomban village . 
Waixel Itup , Kudowpokpi with IIentak 
khói bạ }. 


48 


57 


19 


65 


Waisel Itur , lrum Meijrao . 


24 


60 


59 


No bid 


Thounaojam Itup , Waisel Turel, falling 
intu Akasoi vſ Leiting . 


Fixed for sale on 8-2-56 Wednesday . 


1 


3 


5 


6 


T 


1 


62 


Laijikolu . 


Re . 
2390 


One 
year. 


To be sren 
from the 
1.C s office 
or will be 
proclaimed 
Liptors the 
sale hegius 


To be seen 
trom the 
D.C s office 

or will be 
i procinime 

scfore sh : 
sale begins 


1 


2 


63 


Makhapat Mainangpat Loimapokpam . 


530 


3 


64 


Snapat . A. l . 


4215 


65 


Thiyampat , Thiyanı Village . 


2230 


5 


66 


Leinambi. 


450 


6 


07 


Sajur Loukol Utlou A. P. 


-300 


7 


68 


Bamion Louhut, Nainbol . 


420 


8 


69 


Nambol River filling into Yangoi, 
Nambol Villige. 


JO 


70 


120 


Orangpat Namlıol kongkham 
(Knaphotg) . 
Taothingtili Iiup, Maibam & Naorem 
Villaga . 


10 


71 


620 


2 


11 


72 


Utrupit , A. P. 


1365 


12 


74 


Irengbam Tural A.P. 


10 


18 


75 


Leiunarara Turel chukpa Loimaram . 


.. 


No bid 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 18 , 


1956 . 


Fixed for sale on 8-2-56 Wednesday . ( Cont ..) 


4 


5 


6 


7 


1 


. 2 


.3 


Rs . 


14 


77 


One 
year. 


from ibe 
1 ) ( s Ollico 
or will be 


24 


Oinain Turel, Oinam Village , falling To be seen 
into Yangoi. 

procluimed 
betore the 

alo begins 
Scipat Timphakom Yumnim khunou . 


To he see II 
tror the 
D s ofhicu 
uraill be 
Iisulaimart 
le ore the 
Sale begins. 


- 


1070 


15 


79 


370 


16 


80) 


Sumairon , Kejnou village 


0501 


17 


81 


Keinon Ilidenkom 


18 


82 


Kvinou Awangsvi & 


4700 


80 


Vyaiklung Laisvi 


125 


19 


84 


10 


20 


87 


Ngail Long Kiunou Turel A. P. 
Tulbul Turul, filling into Loktak . 
Yangoi pat & 


21 


88 


9000 


3 


$ 7.1 


Touloul Turul , Toubul 


villing 


120 


31 


22 


89 


Ngakrapit 


-- 


23 


90 


91 


Birikiarikom near Khvijim . Khunon ) 

& 
Leisembi Chin - l-khong Nachou villa ja 

& 
Leiluop : kom ner Nachou & 


1850 


92 


03 


Narbon Turel, Nichli village 


-- 


:31.5 


2 


24 


94 


Nachon Turel Porsanglim 


1 


25 


Vingilioukhong Time & . 


-- 


1:54 ) 


-- 


889 


Taurkhulkhushi nær Ninthouk Olom 
kha 


0 


26 


96 


Hentakikben ( Vintho ! Jhong kha ) 


... 


10 


.. 


27 


: ) 7 


31 


. 


Lanmbi Khoni per Thimingei 
Lançambi Khon , l huma porti :n A.P. 
Suathoibi Tural & 


28 


971 


29 


93 


>> 


99 


Mayangkhung *** 


Tou 


Irm Turel, Nirai Sringa 


20 


1500) 


101 
102 
103 
10+ 
105 
146 
820 


Ilamuliklong Muiran : & 
Meikambi lip & 
Khullekpi: at & 
Lorik hantak 
Konabi pat Moirang & . 
Hgakrapat Moirang & 
Huberloh Moirang 


5 


10 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 18 , 1956 . 


Fixed for sale on 8-2-56 Wednesday . 


(Contd .) 


2 


4 


5 


ti 


7 


3 


Rs. 


31 


107 


Takmupat Thanga 


! ITUN 


1500 


To be seen One 

ilie 
1).C s office ! J eur . 
Or will be 
i prooluimod 
bofor the 
balo hcging , 


To te geen 
from the 
1 ) . C s office 
or will be 
proclaimed 
hefore the 
sale begins . 


32 


103 


Thang Chinglask 


118 


Khangalamijao 


1800 


93 


109 


Tamnapokpi k waktu 


175 


. 


34 


110) 


Kbuga Turel . Kumbi village 


115 


35 


111 


Kumbi Kang ibi 


1550 


86 


112 


Ungarilen 


1080 


. 


• 37 


113 


Hautakpat Wango village & 


1950 


304 


Lusam pat 


M 


38 


114 


Sandangkhong Wangoo & 


. 1200 


115 


Jagadlºm khong 


39 


117 


Laphupat 


300) 5 


Fixed for Salo on 9-2-56 Thursday . 


1 


3 


6 


7 


Rs . 
10 


1 


120 


Phougakchay khong 


1 


To be seen One 
from the 
D.U s office / year. 
or will be 
proclaimed 
before the 
sale hogins 


To be seen 
from the 
D.C s office 
or will be 
proclaimed 
before the 
sale begins 


2 


121 


3 : 0 


Komlakhong. A. P. 
Leingangpat , A. P. 


3 


1 22 


970 


4 


123 


700 


5 


124 


, 


545 


Khullak pat, Mayang Imphal. 
Khong Ahanbi (Govinda seva ) 
Sarengkhong , Chirai village . 
Leitangpat , Wangoi. 


125 


310 


7 


128 


5,260 


8 


131 


Samuraw Itup , Imphal Turel. 


si 


9 


132 


230 


Oinampat Itup, Imphal river , 
Laifrakpan 


10 


133 


250 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 18, 1956 . 


11 


Fixed for Sale on 9-2-56 Thursday . ( Contd . ) 


1 


2 


3 


5 


6 


7 


11 


136 


Muiju company Etup , Imphal river . 


HE. 
130 


One 
year. 


To le seen 
froin 

the 
) .C s offico 
or will lie 
proclaimed 
before the 
sale begins 


To be seen 
from 

the 
1 ) .C s offico 
or will be 
proclaimed 
before the 
sale boging 


12 


135 


: 



200 


Chougthamkona 
Mutum Phibou 


13 


136 


126 


14 


137 


Chirai 


170 


15 


139 


Mayang Imphal 


100 


>> 


] 6 


14 !) 


Iransoi Itup, Thoubal Turel . 


55 


17 


141 


470 


> , 


Maibam Itup . Imphud river . 
Bengool 


18 


142 


55 


19 


143 


Wangbal 


120 


20 


44 


Uchiwa 


111 


" 


21 


145 


Hayel 


85 


22 


146 


Hangul 


630 


23 


147 


l hougakchao ltup , Imphal river. 


9 


1,900 


24 


149 


290 


Hayol Inkhangfam Itup, Imphal river. 
A rong Itup , Inphal river 


25 


149 


1,950 


20 


150 


Waugoo , 


is 


1,525 


151 


27 


225 


Nambool Itup , near Hiyangthang. 
Nambool Turel from Heirangoithong 
to Langthabal Phuramakhong. 


, 


314 


28 


154 


Ngangou Turel Ahanbi (ner Lilong ) 


100 


29 


155 


Ningthibakhong 


16,330 


30 


oli 


156 


Senapati soi. 


750 


) ) 


31 


800 


157 


Moirang Sangol. 


82 


168 


35 


33 


159 


Lonykhum soi: 
Leimanaipat, Maibam Konjin . 
Ikop , pat. L. P. 


1,700 


34 


160 


:. 


17,000 


, 


Laidakul pat . 


38 


161 


1 


1,100 


36 


400 


162 


Leisangthem Santbabi, 


37 


163 


110 


Hayol . Tampaksoi. 


12 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 18 , 1966 . 


Fixed for Sale on 10-2-56 Friday . 


0 


7 


1 


5 


2 


3 


RE 
35750 


2 


16+ 


Kharungpat 


To be seen One 
tom tho 
D . ( s office Fuar. 
us will be 
proclaimed 
helost the 


To be seen 
fioin the 
D.C s otho 
or will be 
proclaimed 
beforo the 
sale begins 


yülen 


5900 


2 


160 


Lanjaokhong 


3 


166 


10300 


1220 


169 


Punilonpat 
Clairel Nongyaikhong 
( huirel Tronglaobi 
Cliol Itup Implul Turel 
Nungou Itup Imphal T urel 


5 


109A 


585 


6 


5171 
( 172 


700 


97 


173 


220 


7 


Langjeng Itup Imphal Turel 
Chomilane kom Waikhong Ningthunai 


8 


175 


000 


i 


9 


177 


2310 


Kakyaipat 
Irum Iurel, Langneidong 


10 


178 


1061 


> 


Il 


179 


Irun Tuiel, Ningoo S. amahi 


370 


3701 


12 


40 


143 


Schruai Turul, neur Palel 


440 


13 


194 


360 i. 


Sekmi Turel, near Kohchilig kulevat 
Soimai Turl, neur Kakching Wuiri 


14 


185 


3011 


15 


1.6 


Sokoni Tarl, near Koirak 


340 


og 


16 


17 


Sokiu Turel, near Il yanglun Waliqui i 


500 


> , 


17 


192 


Thoibipat near Ljousipat 


10 


17 


193 


( 191 


Tehilam I rntha Louclipat 
12 


, ujeng Maril 


19 


1415 


Kaorel Outhanala 


20 


190 


Koiphama Linakhong 


21 


197 " 


II uuula korn 


TOO 


22 


198 


20) 


199 


23 


lleiruk Turel Itup froin Sajikhong 
Inliol to northern Boundary of Ileirok 
Heirok Turel Wangjing Itup 
Sangai Imrham Itup Tieirok Turel & 
Lamding ( tup f1 . R. 
Toutha Itup H. R. 


30 


24 


2001 
200) 
202 


22 


320 


25 


203 


Plumtha Itup Sungai Impham 


** 


290 


& 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 18 , 1956 . 


13 


Fixed for sale on 10-2-56 Friday . 


( ontd . ) 


1 


2 


3 


5 


€ 


7 


26 


204 


Uringkhong 


Rs. 
46 


To be seen One 
from the 
1.C s office year. 
or will be 
proclaimed 
beforo the 
sale lesing . 


To be neon 
from tho 
D.O s otice 
or will be 
proclaiinod 
before the 
sale begins 


205 


Khongjom Turel khongjorn portion 


27 


205A 


Khing jom Turel Sapam portion 


145 


206 


Khongjom Turel near Wangjing 


28 


207 


no bia 


29 


208 


Langathel Turel near Langathel 
Patlipat near lleiruk 
Kailombihok ltup Noogdanbi Turel 


10 


" , 


30 


209 


> , 


50 


31 


210 


Yongdambi Amanbi neur Uyal villugi. & 


35 


211 


Turel 


Wanglal Itup . Nongdambi 
falling into Arong Twel. 


32 


212 


Nongdambi Turol near Khangabok 


900 


33 


213 


10 


Khangabok kluno Itup Nongdambi 
l urel. 


34 


212A 


Lakbongpit 


" 


910 


Fixed for Sale on 11-2-56 Saturday . 


1 


3 


4 


5 


7 


Rs . 


215 


droug Turel Amauli 


1310 


נווס 
fr 


спе 
year. 


Ti be seen 

thc 
12.C s othco 
or will be 
pruchimed 
bor- tors the 
şirlo brzins 


To sren 
į troni the 
D.C s office 
or will be 
porelaimed 
Tefore , the 
sale begins 


216 


Khalak khong near Khe ri Lihai 


35 


ce 


217 


Lakhinagar Itup Troubul Turel near 
l boudied 


60 


9 


4 


219 


Nin romain Itup Thoubyl River 


45 


219 


Ilauklia Itup, llonbal River 


25 


220 


Sabai tonzby Ilup Thoubal River 


co 


is 


221 


Kiyam Itup Thonbul Turel 


SO 


8 


2:22 


Khekmal Itup Thoutal River 


81 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 18 , 1956 . 


Fixed for sale on 11-2-56 Saturday. 


(Conta ) 


4 


6 


0 


7 


1 


2 


3 


R-, 
16 


9 


223 


Leisangthim Itup Thoubal River 


One 
year . 


To he sech 
frono he 
D) .C s office 
or will le 
proclainad 
before the 
sale login 


To he scen 
from 
D . ( ; s office 
or will be 
pruolained 
heiore the 
sale begins 


10 


224 


15 


Twoudam Itup Thoubal River 


" 


11 


225 


Waithou Plumnom 


11:00 


12 


226 


12000 


Waithou Soirel 


18 


227 


Waithou Thongkha 


2400 


229 


Suptu Karong 


,, 


14 


231 


Ushoipokpipat 


6110 


15 


282 


Takpakba 


2300 


16 


283 


Linchikpat 


670 


17 


236 


Poirou rat 


:. 


7660 


18 


237 


Poirou Soining 


256 


. 


Fixed for sale on 13-2-56 Monday . 


2 


3 


6 


243 


Clingnung Itup Thoubal River 


RA. 
400 


One 
year . 


To be seen 
from the 
D.V s Office 
or will be 
proclaimed 
before the 
vale beyince . 


To be sena 
from the 
D . ( s oldce 
Or will be 
proclaimed 
before the 
sale begin 


2 


244 


Bishnu Sena Itup. Thoubal River 


130 


246 


l oirokkhongjin Itup Thoubal River 


80 


21 


247 


4 


Iluidrom Itup Thoulal Turel 
Ingourok Miru near Shibung 


248 


40 


6 . 


24 ) 


Kak mayại Tamon khong 


2 : 0 


230 


Tarong Turang Tamengkhong Shekmai - 
Khumbi . 
Tamengkhong Maril doar Khuirem 


7 


251 


ag 


160 


8 


203 


Charangpat Itup . 


300 


254 


Chandrakhong Itup 


66 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 18 , 1966 . 


16 


Fixed for Salo on 13-2-56 Monday . 


( Conld ) 


4 


6 


2 


3 


5 


7 


Kr . 
1615 ) 


257 


Plioudai Muril, “ Kamu Yaithibi 


To be seen 

One 
from thes 
D).C s office year. 
or will be 
proc aimed 
belore the 
wale begins. 


Tole sco 
from the 
D.C s othon 
or wiil be 
proclaimed 
before the 
sale begins . 


110 


11 


158 


Snapat Andro 


820 


12 


259 


Irong Maril Andro 


495 


13 


260 


Leitambi Khong , Leitambi village 
Thaodikhong Leimakhong Pawakhong 
near Yaingangpokpi 


510 


14 


262 


80 


15 


203 


Hidampat Lousangkhong villige 


38 


16 


264 


70 


17 


265 


Lousangkhong Akabi 
Khamellok Loukhong near Keibi Lou 
sangki bong 
Pukhao Louiembam Konkam Maril pear 


189 


18 


267 


209 


Pukhao Itup . 


05 


19 


270 


Sagolming Itup 


30 


20 


171 


Uyumpok Purum Itup Iril River. 


61 


21 


272 


Keili Itup I. R. 


31 


22 


273 


Keili Lousangkhung Itup liil River 


16 


23 


274 


Sekta itup I. li . 


14 


.24 


275 


Pungdong ham Itup I. R. 
Awang Swoubung Itup I. R. 


25 


5276 
( 277 


107 


Phakuung Itup I. R. 
Kanglasiphai Itup I. R. 


26 


273 


$ 273 


05 


( 279 


Angenlau ai Itup I. R. 


20 


27 


240 


Moirangkau : pu Itup I. R. 


43 


2 :3 


283 


Bamonkampu Itup I, R. 


75 


29 


224 


Keirio Itup I. R. 


85 


30 


235 


Urup Itup I. R. 


805 


31 


286 


Sankardov Itup I. R Urup Village 
Khabisii Maril ( I.eading Kongla River) 


235 


32 


288 


86 


. 


39 


289 


Ipum Turel, Kungha Turul Ahanbi 


16 


MAXIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 18 , 1955 . 


Fixed for Sale on 13-2-56 Monday . ( Contd .) 


1 


2 


7 


3 


6 


6 


RA. 
175 


36 


2:32 


Konglia Itup 


To he feen One 
frum the 
D ).C s office year . 
ir will lic 
proclain ed 
before the 
sale begins. 


" To be sa 
from 
D.O s ottica 
or will be 
proclaimet 
hefore the 
salg begim 


35 


293 


Kongba achouba 


100 


36 


294 


Makba Konzba 


720 


37 


295 


Akasoi Dear Uchekon 


66 


. 


38 


296 


Lairolpat near Uchekon Khunnu 


56 


39 


300) 


70 


41) 


301 


150 


Jubaraj Laukon Arapti . 
Arapti nala in Wangkhoi Loumanvi 
Imphal River from Shingjameithong to 
Lilongthong 
Chnjing Itup , lipljal R. 


41 


304 


42 


os 


T 


42 


305 


76 


43 


306 


Karam Itup, Iinplul R. 


40 


44 


307 


Haoreibi Itup Imphal R. 


45 


43 


308 


kyamgei Iiup Imphal R. 


73 


10 


40 


318 
319 


Sintha Itup , Namthikhong Pataa 
Tamding Itup. The upir portion is 
No. 23 falling into Nim bol river 


7 , 


15.) 


Fixed for sale on 14-2-55 Tuesday . 


] 


2 


3 


4 


6 


7 


MOVIC 


323 


Phoijing Ilavroukom ( Branch of fy . Tolvsren 
No.10 N. P. ) 


Ile 
! 1. uf .; 


( ne 
year. 


Rs. 
No lid 


To he rem 
from tho 
D.C ; office 
Or will be 
proclaimed 
lietore : the 
site begin 


privilizimit 
betuse the 
hulle logins. 


5 


2 


$ 25 


903 


Tbumomtak , Muirang 
Nyarampat, Thanya 


3 


329 


100 


330 


185 


5 


331 


San.ukolpat, l ) anga 
Sumirou Loukbong , Chingkibu 
Thamhalkbong Khirogao 


No lid 


6 


333 


21 


7 


335 


Una lchin ltbei 


30 


8 


337 


Khabakkhong , Wangjing 


, 


165 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 18 , 1956 . 


17 


Fixad for sale on 14-2-56 Tuesday. 


1 


2 


3 


4 


20 


6 


7 


9 


370 


RS . 
9.50 


Hyosabal Thingom Linjao 


One 
year 


To be seen 
from thie 
D.C s office 
or will be 
proclaimed 
before the 
sille hegins . 


To be seen 
from tlic 
D.C s oilicu 
or will be 
proclaimed 
before the 
sale losins. 


3.) 


341 


136 


Lilong Torel Ahanbi nala near Dolai . 
thabi. 


. 


li 


343 


Se : mai river , Wang Sokmai 


75 


: 


1 


346 


Lairelsajik ! t ) N. P. 


09 


40 


13 


350 


Tolongedi Kriak 


600 


14 


35 


Kakchini Wa 


Lukhong 


no bid 


355 


Khullikat, Clire ! L .. P. 


15 


330 


3:16 


konrie Claiiel 


16 


367 


65 


i, 


Langban Hina ) . Sugroo 
Nunthikhong Flautang 


17 


31; 


os 


10 


15 


40 


30 :1) 


hunthonjam 

Lakhong 
- Harkliun , Maril, Tentha Khunaw 


372 


19 


485 


57 :5 


Khuujao 
komlipok Louklong , Norsirangam 
Villaye . 


20 


377 


80 


si 


21 


380) 


39 


Pengei Ilup . Pangei 
Kamaluukhong langaitabi Andro & 
Huikap . 


22 


900 


384 


23 


46 


585 


Torapur Ilup, Teripur Leitanpok pi 


24 


387 


Nongmai Turel , Andro 


51 


, ; 


25 


89 


135 


Champrakhong , Khoijumın khunau 


60 


26 


391 


Awang Turel, Phubala 


V 


395A 


Samwou Hiyangthang Surok Nala 
Eastern portion 


27 


406 


> 


395B Samurou Hiyangthang Sorok Nala 

( Western portion ) 


28 


396 


250 


is 


Khanlangpat with Loukhong , Sang 
sabi village 


29 


4930 


405 


Webagai khong thanbi : 


15 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 18 , 1956 . 


Imphal, the 28th December, 1955 . 
Subject :-RAINFALL DATA FOR THE MONTH OF AUGUST , 1955 . 
(a ) Statement showing the total rainfall for each raingauge station for 
August , 1955 . 
(1) Civil Hospital raingauge station 

4.80" 
( 2 ) Cantoament 

5.84 " 
( 3) Kangchupkhul 

10.52 " 
( 4 ) Temenglong 

33.65 " 
(b ) Number of rainy days.j. e. on which 0.10 " ( 10 cents ) or more has fallen for 
each station . 

( 1 ) Civil Hospital 
( 2 ) Cantonment 
( 3) Kangchupkhul 

( 4 ) Tameoglung 
(c ) Statemont showing rainfall of 0.10 " or over with accounts in the preceding 
and following 24 hours during the month . 


U 


. 


District , 


Station . 


Date 


Amount of pre- On data in 
ceding day : 

col. 3 . 


Succeeding 

day . 


Manipur . Civil Hospital. 


0.39 " 


6-8-55 
12-8-55 
17-8 55 
20-8-55 
23-8-55 
27-8-55 


X 
Х 

X 
(1.53" 
0.31) " 
0.21 " 


0.97 " 
0.63 " 
0.93 " 
0.27" 

X 
0.19 " 


0.17" 


().15 " 

X 


Cantonment. 


X 


6-8-55 
13-8-55 
18-8-55 
21-8-55 
25-8-55 
28-8-55 


0.12 " 
0.67 " 
1.16 
0.27 " 
0.18 
0.19 " 


.1.15 " 
0.43 " 

X 
0.18 
X 


0.71" 
0.34 " 
0.16 " 


Kangchup 

kliul 


4-8-55 
9-8-55 
12-8-55 
15-8-55 
18-8-55 
21-8-55 
26 8-55 


1.40 " 
0,50 " 
0.50 " . 
1.86 " 

Х 
0.50" 
1.03 " 


X 
1.00 " 
0.41; " 
0 26 " 
0.72 " 
0.72" 

X 


0.48 " 

х 
1.86 " 
0.17 " 
0.116 " 

X 
0.0 " 


Tamenglong 


1-8-55 
4-8.55 

7-8-55 
10-8-55 
13-8-56 
13-8-55 
19-8-55 
22-8-56 
25-8-55 


0.82" 
2.06 " 
2.79 " 
1.24 " 
1.45 " 
0.80 " 
0.16 " 
3.38 " 
.30)" 


0.32" 
1.95 " 
2.79 " 

X 
2.92 " 
J.80 " 

X 
0.73 " 
0.29 " 


1 37 * 
1.60 " 
1.69 " 
0.463 " 
2.011" 
0.72" 
3,15 " 
0.71" 

X 


G. H. Singh , 
Agstt. Secretary (WAF) to the Govt . of Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 18 , 1966 . 


19 


a . 


NOTICE No. 3 of 1955-56 

Imphal, the 15th January , 1956 
Is hereby given that license for the undermentioned Opium Shop will be sold by 
tender system for the year 1916-57 at Excise Office at I p . m . on the day of the 
24th February , 1956 subject to the following conditions - 

1 . T he license sold :will give the right of opening & shop only at the site named 
in the list below . The period will be from 1st April, 1956 to 31st March , 1957 . 

2 . The license will be settled at a fixed rate of vend foe . 

3 . Tender at fixed rate is to be submitted to the Inspector of Excise: on or before 
the 23rd day of February , 1956 in the following form in a sealed cover. Accep auce 
of tender will be subject to the approval of tho D : C , Excise , Manipur. 

TENDER FOR OPIUM SHOP . 
1 . Name of shop : 

Rate of vend feo at whioh tender is made : 
3 , Name and address of the tenderer : 
4. Signature of witnesses to the tender : ( 1 ) ( 2 ) 

h . Signature or thumb impression of tbe tender with date : 
Each tender shall bear a court fee starop of Rs. 5 )-. Any shop not setter on 
the tender byster will be sold by any other inethod as may be prescrit :d by the 
D. C./Excise . The undersigned is not bound to accept any particular tender or the 
highest or any bid . 

4. The purchaser will be required to deposit on the day of sale as security gun 
equal to two months veni fee on the estiin teil consumption of the shop . 

5 . When a licence is knocked down or the result of settlement under the tender 
systenu is announced the purchaser is liable for any loss that may accrue to Govt. 
in case it becomes necessary to re- sell it for lower , live ike fee to re - settle it 
in consequence of his failure to pay the sum piya yle it the time of Sule : Hach 
tenderer whose tender is accepted , is liable to his cindition in case of his tailure 
to make good his bid or tender and will be liable to pay the loss # $ provided in 
section 35 of the Eastern Bangal and Assam Exc « e Act , 19.1 . 

6. If for any valid reason a license , aft r its sale lic refused to the purchaser , 
the advance deposit or security paid by him will le refunded . 

7 . The term of license will commance from the 1st April, 19.56 and the purchases is 
required to open his shop on the day his terni of ſirense comm nces or on sui h date as the 
D.C./Excise inay order, failing which his advance deposit puid iy him will be firleited and 
his license will be cancelled and re-sold at his risk , and he will be liable for any lives thit 
may accrue to Govt . by the rc- jale , 

& The licenso will not be transferable , nor can it be sul let without the order of tbe : 
D.C./Excise , Manipur. 
9 , Vend fee . 

Cost price . Duty . Treasury price . Retail price . 
RA , 45 /- per RA. 71/ 1 /- per Rs. 252 14, 
Rs . 252 14 , - Rs. 323 / 15 /- per 

Ho. 388 15 :- per 

per ser , 
Sl. No. Site of Shop . 

Mauja in which situated . 
1 . Imphal 

Imphal 

Sd /- . Illegible , 
Inspector of Excise , Manipur. 


or 


seer . 


seer . 


seer . 


seur . 


- 


Impbali - Printed and published by he superiotoadent Government Pres . C , 226 / 18-1-56. 


Manipur 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 51 - E - 14 


Imphal, Monday, 


January 23 , 1931i . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


66 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

NOTIFICATION 

Imphisl, the 21st January , 1956 . 
No. T.F.Misc, 3,53 . .- In exercise of the powers couferr . d by sectiun 29.1 ( 2 ) of the 
Assain Municipal Act, 1923 (Assam Act 1 of 1923 ). As extended to the State of 
Manipur by the Govt. of India under their Noticoatiou No, SRO 17 dated 8-1-5.2 , 
it is proposed to inake the followiog amendments to the rules made for the piction uf 
members of the Municipal Board in Manipur under the said Act is applied to Manipur 
and published under this Ectt. Notification No. J/ 31, 12 datel 10-11.52 in an extraordinary 
Gazette Issue of the Manipur Gazette dat: d 28-11-52. The proposed amendments iro 
publi -hed below in compliance with Section 296 (3 ) of the Ag8um Municipal A t. 

Obj+ ctions if any , to the proposed amondments may be sent so as to reach the 
Manipur Secretariat in the Judicial Department by the 31st of January , 1906 at the 
latest . 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 
1. After Rule 19 ( 1) of the said rules, adıl the following sub-rulu as sub -rale (IA ), 
damely . 

( IA ) In any Ward or section Constituencies, where it has been decided that the 
method of voting boy ballot boxes shall be followed , the nomination piper. shall also 
be accompanied by a declaration that the candidate for election bile s , lected a symbol 
frim the fist specified in the Schedule to the rules provided addition to the list in 
thie Scherlu e mug le mude loy the Chief Commissioner 

is may b . neessary from 
time to time . No candidate in such constituincies sball le leemed to lie duly uominated 
unless auch declaration is delivered along with riuniiantiou paper. 

Such declaration may be made in Forni BB . 
2 . After clause ( is ) of Rule 29 ( 1) , add the following c1: 490 as clause ( a ), namely : 
(ra ) and in case of method of voting by syrubol : 

( i ) the chairman shall provide it rach polling station one billist box fi s each of 
the candidates in each inner compartment thereof and the ballot boxe: shull bo # 1 
placed in the compartment that e voter can insert his ballot 

can insert bis ballot paper in any of the 
boxes without being observed by any other pers011 . 

(ii) the symbol assigned to ench such candidate shall be printed . and pasted on 
the ballot boxes of the respective candidates. The ballot box of eaoh candidate shall also 
be clearly murked with his name in English , Manipuri and or any other rernucular 
languages as may be decided by the chairinan . 

( iii ) Outride and inside each polling station thero shall be displayed on boards , 
to be provided for the purpose by the Chairunan in bold and cluar print, the name 
of ench oandidate in English , Minipuri and or any other vernacular languages as may 
be decided by the ( Chairniall , the naine of the synulol with which his ballot box is 
marked and the symbol itself. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 27, 1956 . 


3 . 


- 


After Rule 36 of the suid rules , add the following rules as Rule35A , nainely : 
36A . In case of voting by ballot boxes, the procedure for vo ing shill lie as follnws : 

(i) The voter on recciving the ballot peper , shell show the officialmark thereu ! 
to the Polling Officer and forth with procced into the polling or Inner co partujent 
where he s} iall put Iris ballet paper or prpers into the ball. t box of the candidates 
or candidats for wliom be desires 10 vote. Evry voter s all vute witbort induo “ 
delay and shall quit the polling station as soon as he h:18 put bis billot paper into 
tbo bullot box . 

( ii) If the voter, owing the illiteracy or infirmity is unable to read the : ymbol 

a ballot box the Pelling Officer shall put the ballot paper into thy ballot box 
according to the direction of the voter, 

4. After Form B , insert the following as Form BB . 


Furm BB 
Rule 

Deolaration . 
I du declare that I have selected ......... 

.......... 
puss the symbol for my election . 

6. At the end of the forms to these rules , add vhe following Schedule , namely. 


Schedule 
List of Symbols . 

Rule 19 (IA ) 
( 1 ) Boat 

(8 ) Urulrella 
( 2 ) Cart 

( 9 ) Fishing rod 
( 3 ) Int 

( 10 ) llumon band 
( 4 ) Hurricane lamp 

( 11 ) Bicycle 
( 5 ) Palki" 

( 12 ) Kodali 
(6 ) Plough 

( 13 ) Ase 
(7 ) Scales 


A 


NOTIFICATION 

Imphal, the 21st January , 1974 . 
No. T.F ;Misc, 3,53 - In exercise of the powers conferred upon lim under Sec . 
10 ( 1) of the Assan Municipal Act ( Assam Act I of 1923 ),x1: 23 as extendrd to the State 
of Manipur by the Govt . of India in the Ministry of States under tbeir Notification 
No. 10 - J dated the 8th of January , 195 ? red with Sco. 2.16 ( 2 ) ( I) of the Act anıl 
in continuati n of this Sectt . Notification No. 1. F./Misc, 3/53 dated 11th May , 1931, 
the Chief Commisjoner is pleased to declare that the number of members to be 
elected by the voters of each Ward shall be as follows : 
Ward No. 

No, of seats . 
I 

2 . 
Il 

2 . 
III 

3 . 
IV 

3 . 
V 


1 


A.K. Ray . 


Chief Secretary to the Gurt, of Manipur 


Impbal . rinted and published by wo superintendent Governp sot Press C. 122 /23-146 


Manipur 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 52 - E - 15 


Imphal, Tuesday , 


January 24 , 1956 . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 24th January , 1956. 
The 1956 Republic Day will be olserved as per programme indicated below . It is 
requested that the public in general will kindly observe the day ag a day of National 
Rrjoicing expressing at the same time their patriotism and the essential unity of India . 
They may kindly attend Ceremonial March Past of the Assam Rifles , Manipur Rifles , 
National Cadet Corpt and the Stato Civil Police at the Polo Ground . 


PROGRAMME FOR REPUBLIC DAY CELEBRATIONS , 

JANUARY 26 , 1956 . 


. 


( 1 ) 8.00 A.M. Flug Hoisting Ceremony at the Chief Commissioner s Residence . 
( 2 ) 0.00 A.M .- The Chief ( ommissioner will take the salute at a ceremonial 

March Past in the Polo Ground in which detachments of the 
Assum Riflos, Manipur Rifles , National Cadet Corps and the 

State Civil Police will take part. 
(3 ) 3.30 1 .11 . Opening of Childrens Park . 

( to the north of the Public Library ). 
( 4 ) 4.00 F.M. - Garden Party at the Chief Commissioner s House . 
(5 ) 5.00 1.16. Variety show at the Chief Commissioner s House . 
(0 ) 6.30 1.4 .-- Illumination of Office and Public Buildings. 


G.H. Singh , 
Assistant Secretary (WAF ) to the 

Govt . of Manipur. 


Impbal: Printed and published by ihe Suporlatendent Government Press O. 321/ 24-1956 . 


मधमाजयले 


Manipur 


Gazette 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 53 


Imphal , Wednesday , January 25 , 1956 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Pago 


, ! 


1 


Part I. - Appointnienis , Fostings, Transfers, Powers, 

Leave and other personal notions , 
Part II. - Ro- olutions, Rogulations , Orders , Notifi . 

cations, Rules etc. 


Part IIl. - Orders , Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of ladia , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Noticos etc. 


3 to 
4 to 12 


2 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 26th December , 1957. 
No. 1-MD 61 51.- The Chief Commission s is pleased to confirm Shri L. Nanda 
Babu Roy As Assistant Surgeon Cirade 1 with eff ct from 15-12-55 in the post sanc 
tioner! under Government Order No. 1-MD, 61; 51 dated the 26th December , 1950 . 

Imphal, the 17th January , 1956 . 
No. FA 25,55. - The Chief Comniis -ioner is ploised to appoint Shri Kunti Raj, 
stired Director of Agriculture and Fisheries, Andhra , as Director of Agriculture , 
Manipur on contract basis from the date he joms liis appointment, the period of 
bin contract will LH determined after he joins duty . 

Iinphn ), the 18th January , 1956 
Na. APW I & W 35 55 .-- The ( lief ( ommissioner is pleased to decide that Shri 
R. N. Sbirma, Elect . iciul Engineer , Maripur will bold charge of the post of Esecu 
H, VC Engineer ( Irrigation Division ) , Manipur, in addition wu bis duties from the 
12th January , 1916 till further orders and shall emprise all the powers of an 
Execuivo Engin er while he bulls the latter post . 

Imphal, the 13th Jannlry , 1951 . 
No. Estt 1,55 (4 ) 5.-Shri (). Kathipri , Asstt. Secy . 
( l ribal Welfare ) to the Govt. of Millip ir and Extra 
Assist:ant Comin ssioner Clume is surto.co earne : 
leave for 60 days subject to report of alminsih.lity 
by the Accountant Gereral, Assam , frun the 1611 Janu 
ary , 1955 with porumission to prefix the 14th and 15th 
of Janury, puivlic holid uy and Sunday . 

2. Shri Y. Gultrainani Singh , Haal Asstt. of the 
Secretariat is apnointed to not temporarily as Jostt . 
Secretary / ("Tribal W e fare ) and Extra Asstt . Coromisioner/ 
Claims in the leave vuouncy of Shri O. Kathipri . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Maripur, 


2 


NASIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 27, 1951. 


PART 1) 

Imphal, the ?? d ). cemler . 19 : 5 . 
No. F -DPC , 8 53.Pt B.- l be chief ciprisioner is pleased to sanction the creation of . 
one tein porary post xf Block Develi poient Officer for :he Imphal kast NES Bluck in this 
scale of Rw. 15 -1.50-21 ). ( C 11 ) . 1 !! - 60 -E33 111-,: 00-1:2 ! -375 - K 13- ! 2 !-1.300/- with visual drarnost 
allowance from the 9th December, 1970 upto the 9th February, 1951 and the appoitnient 
tlierete of Shri G. Chandakumar Sarma, Supervisor of the Thoubial Community llevrlop 
mout Block with retrosper tive effect. 

Tie expenditure is debitable to " 6 :3-13 ( omninnirs Il velopment Projecte , National 
Extension Ber : drie and Juncal Development Works . 1. National Extension Service - B. 
Projoot Bl cis leadquarters for this State fir 1: 03-55 . 

T. kipgen . 
Secretary to the Cioveinwentyf Manipur. 


Imphal the 2 ist Jalurry : 1955 . 
No. IJ ;52/52 ( a ) .--- in esercise of the powers conferred by Sul,sction (1 ) of Section 1 of 
the United Provinces suppression of Immoral Trafici Act, 1932, as extended to this Stato 
under Notification No. F. 12( 7).J /11 /75 duted 31-12-76 of the Govt. of ludia , Ministry of 
Home Affairs New D lhi, the Chief Commissi jner is pleased to decide that the aforesaid 
Aot shall come into force throughout the State of Manipur with effect from the Ist March , 
1950 . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to tho Govt . of Manipur. 


Imphal, the 16th January , 1956 . 
No. D , HP , 36 51. - In exercise of the power conferred upon lion loy Suctiiin 
44 ( 1) & ( 2 ) of the Motor Veh cies Act 19:39 (IV of 1939 ) read with the Goveriment 
of India lato Ministry of Stat H , Notulicatiin No. 101-1 of : 4-8-50 , the Chief 
Commissioner is plea : od to substitut: the words “ the livisioral Engineer ( Iliy buay 8 ; ** 
for " the State Engner ay sinat serial No. 33 uf tile order No. JIP :30 51 of 
11-2-195 with mmediato efluci . 

K. G. Singh , 
Asett . Secretary ( MTV T ) to the Govt . of Maipur . 

Ímpbal, the 13th January , 1956. 
No. K. CS 18 55.- The Chief commissioner is pleased to order that the selling 
price of cuu ent should be fixed at til 8 14 ,- per bag as analysed below : 
1. Factory pricu 

Rs . 74 15-0) Per ton , : 
2 . Railway freight upto 
Manipur Road . 

H. 40-15.5 
3. Cost of of trinsport from 

Manipur Road to M. S. Ti s 
Godoin at Imphal. 

hs . 45-8 O 
4. 10 % profit margin of 
Procuring Agent. 

Ha. 16.- ? . ,, 

His . 177-8-11 
( r Bu 

8-14-0 is 


lag . 


1. M. Sitich , 
Asstt . Socy . (Edn .) to the Govt . of Nanipur. 


MASIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 25 , 1956 . 


: 3 


PART II 


Implal, the 14th Januari , 19515. 
No. RH ; 77 /51- A 139. -The foll, wing Notifiction No. SRO . , R . Amdt. III . dated 
31-12-55 issued by the Govt. of India , Ministry of Rehabilit.tion , New Delhi is rep iblish : 
for gineral infmat on . 

II. R. Singlı , 
Asstt Sec etary GIL ) to the qort. of Manipur. 


Ν Ο Τ 1 FI ( Α Τ Ι Ο Ν . 

New Delhi , the 31st Derenıder , 1955 
No. S.R.O .........., 

R. Amdt . 111.- In ciercise of the powers conferred by auction 40 vf 
the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 47 of 1954 ), the 
Co itral Govern nont horairy mik : the following moniments to thn Displicurd Persons 
( Coinpensation and Rehabilitation ) Rules , 1915 i, namely : 
In the said kulsa 
(1) in rule :jā , after the words " rivultural lind " and before the words and the 

amount recoverable " , thy wurdis " ur las purchased any Government built property 

in the compeusation pool” shall be inserted ; 
( 2 ) in clauses (a ) and ( b ) of rulo 56 , for the word * ch-lim ” , the words " compensation 

converted in terius of Standard rores " shall be sustitutud . 
(3) in i ule ( 4 to clausc (a ), the fullowing proviso shall lie added , namely : 

“ I rovided that any such pur on who surrendered any land allotted to him 
in the State of l unjalı or Patiala and East Punjab States Union before 
tho 51st December, 1955 may , ou production of a certificate issued by the 
auchuriard officer of the liovernment of Punjalı or l atialal and East Punjab 
States Union , as the case may bry, evidencing such surrender, be all wed 
to retain the land allotted to him in the d strict of Gangana rar in the 
Stalo of Rijrahın on condition that if he is in prissession of any riot 
in evi: 85 of thouts which should have been aloitted to him in the Stite 
of Punjabs or Patiala :iud Est Puniile Stiates Union , he shall eicher surrender 
such 4X09.35 area on pay the price theref. ro at the rate meutined 102 

rule 56 " ; 
( 4 ) jn rule 6.0 , -- 
(i) 

m sub-rule (i), livr tlie words "fur acres or more" , the words "more tian 

four acres " shall lie substitute :) ; 
(ii) in sill -rule (2), for the words " 2.88 than four acros ” , the words " four norer or 

lcss " shall lie substituted ; 
(5 ) in rulo 95 , 

in the second provis.) to sul rule (5 ), ifter the words any pr .perty " , the 

words " other tha :ı agricultural land in any urlo10 area " shall be iogurted ; 
(6 ) in iud 17 , 

for the words " less than four acres " the words " four acres or less " shali to 

substituted ; 
( 7 ) in rule 119 , -- 

for the words and figure " section 9 of the Act" , tho words and figures " 
tion 9 , 22 , 23 , 24 and 25 of the Act” ball be Bulstituted . 

1.X. CEIB , 
Deputy Seoretary to the Govt . of India . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 25 , 1950 . 


NOTIFICATION 

Imphal, the 12th January , 1956 . 
No. J/ 15 55. — The Notification No. 7. 4 /65 -AVD dated 30.12.55. issued by the 
Ministry of Home Affairs, New Delhi is published for general information : 

" In exorcise of the powers conferred by Sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 1 of the 
Prevention of Corruption ( Amendment) Act, 1936 (61) of 1955), the Central Govern 
meut hereby appoints the lat day of January , 1950 , as the date on which the said 
Act shall conje into force ." 

A. K .. Ray. 
Chief Secrctary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


Imphal , the 18th January , 1986 . 
No.S , 2 53. - Orier No. 2 daled 8-1-56 jesued by the Govt . of India , Ministry of Finance 
( Ri venue Division ), Now Delhi as publi- h in the India Gazetts Part Il Section 3 dated wil 
is republished for general i formation . 

A. K. Ray , 

Clef Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 
“ No. 2. In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (n ) of sub -section (1 ) of section 
9 of thy Indian Stamp Act , 18.9 (? I of 1899 ), the Central Government heroliy rin.its the 
duties churgeable in the States of Kutch , Manipur and Tripura under the said Act in 
respect of the instrumeuts herrinafier described : 

(1) Mrtgaged deed executed by a person in the civil or military service of Gover 
ment for securing the repayment of an advance reoli co by him frumi Ciort. for tho purposo 
of constructing , purchasjog or repairing a dwelling house fur liis olla use . 

( ) Instrument of reconveyance of mortgaged property exerutul by Govt. in favour of 
any person who is or hius bann in the civil or military service of Govt. on the repayment of 
an indiance received by hiun froin (tovernment for trie ! purpose of constructioy . purchasing 
or repairing a dwelling house for his own use . 


PART IV 


WIVES 


dro 


NOTI E. 

Implial, the 16th January , 1931 . 
Applications s atii . 

Nationality , age, 

honie addreea , educational qualifications , 
previous experience and number of living 

( in CLB of in arcid ibpplicants ) 
invited fr the following temporary posts in the Ojice of the State Trading 
Vificer, Manipur and will be received by the undersignu upto 2012 Janury , 1936 . 

1. (thyce ) 0 ; par Division Clarks in the Nolle of psy of Rs. 10 ). ; - 1501 

Applicants shyuld be gratuites preferably with so previous vflice 
experience . 
4 (four ) lo stier Division ( lerks in the scale of pily of Rs. 40-2-505- B 
3-10111- 1-100 ) Applicants must be Matriunletes . 
1 (Ono ? , pist in the coul of pur of Rs. 40-9-50EB - 3.- OE 1-4-100 / -. 
Applicants must be Mutriwulatus and be capill, of typing 40 words per 

minutes . 
All candidates willst appear before the undersigand at 11 A. M. on 30.1.56 along 
with 2 chara ter ce . tificates from two gazotted officers for tlic interview for which 
po further intimation will be sent. No T. A. fur the interview 

No T. A. fur the interview will be rellowed . 

T. Kalachand Singh , 
State Trading Ollicer, Manipur . 


2 . 


3 . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 25 , 1956 . 


NOTICE . 

Imphal, the 12th January , 1956 . 
No. VY -76 : 55 .-Sealed tenders are invited for the supply of the following articles 
Tenders will be received up to 1 P.M. of the 30th Janury , 1956 and will be 
opened on the same day before the tenderers , by the Chief Medicul Ollcer (Veto 
rinary ) Manipur. 

Successful tenderer should supply the articles within 30 days from the date of 
acceptance of his tender and in confirmation thereof he is reqnired to sign an agrcement 
& also to deposit 10 % of the accepted amount , which wil be refunded after coin 
pletion of the supply of the articles . 

Succe- sful tenderer is to supply the articles at the Veterinary Office at Sanjenthong 
for which no transport charge will be claimed . Full particulars of the articles to 
be supplied nay be had from the ollice during office hours . There shall be no 
binding to accept the lowest lender or to assign any reason for acceptance of any 
tender : 
1. Four Alinirahs of Uningthou size : -- 6 x.3.! x1 } ( two for cross Brending Office Staff , 

one for office at Hd , quarter and one for A.l. 

rection at Imphal. 
2. Seven Almirals of Uchan sizo : 4 ! X2 x1 ! (live , for crous Breeding staff two 

for Veterinary lJosipals at Biskunpur s Thoubal 
3 . One officer s table : -- 

Orrlinary size for cross Broeding Officer. 
4 . One oflicer s chair cine sunterl for 

Cross breeding officer : 
5. One table size : 

4x3 x ( for office at Hd quarter ). 
6 . Five ordinary cane seated chairs: ( for cr: 84 lireering staff and one for office at Ha . 

quarter) . 
7 . Five wooden chairs ize : 

2 x1./ X13 for cros ; broeding tatl . 
8 , Hive tabl.8 size : 

f v 2. for cross breeding staff . 
9 . Two licnches size : 

6 xl.! ! for , 
10 . One laboratory lulle size 

8x25x3 ! for 
ul. One asoptic Aland : -- 
12 . One table small size : 

2 x2x220 " for Jroeding 
13 . One Sink : 

20 " X1 " fur 

sichern . 
14 . I wo toule size : 

1 .! * 1 ! 12 ! . 
1 . Ore Dressing Table siz ) : 

12,2! fur key villave srbenie at Tlioubila 
16. Eight Tools Regular size : 

lifir Criss Breezint : SEST and two fur Artificial 
Still . 

Nanda laliu , 
OM . I hofMicul rillicer ( Vity . ), 

Manpur ( Veterinary) . 


> 


. 


NOTICE No. 1 of 19.16 

Imphal, the 23rd Jamry , 1956 
82wunds and 17 seer s of ( Borodhan ) bad rice will lve sold liy pulle auction on 
1. 2. 66 at 10 A. M. in the Jail premises . Into nding purchasir s pre requested to be 
present on the same dilte at the appointed bcur fo . 1.1 : b.se 

ihe said rice on 
playbacut. 

1. C. Tiankham , 
Suput., Jail, Imphal Manipur . 


MANIPUR CAZETTE , TAVUARY 25, 1956 . 


NOTICE . 

In.phal, the lith January , 1900 . 
No. 2- X 55. Applications stating (a ) Education qualification (b ) Age on 1. 1. 66 
(c) prestint addre -8 (d , Hiins address (e) ember cif virs livin .., iſ married are invited 
for a post of Veterinary b - sistant Surpron 0 :3 tho time scale of gry of Rs 101-10 
120 -EB -6-190 -E13-10-250) plus 1). A. ac vidin ; tu rul : 1:34 post is at present t :) 
the end of February , 19 : 0; but is l.kely to be extended Higitur initial piy may be 
given to specially qualified candidates. 
Qualification 

Veterinary Graduate with it least 5 years experience 
essential 

and training in Arifcial Insemination . 
Applicatiuris with certificates in original (which will be returned ) should reach the 
undersigued on or before the 31st January 1950 . 

Other things being muul proference will be given to caoidates kuoring oue or 
more of the local languages. 

Nanda Dubu Roy , 
Offy . Chief Medical Officer (Vetorinary ) . 


NOTICE NU. IS " 933 . 

Imphal, the 10th January, 1956 . 
Applications uro invited for a permanent Assistant teacher of the Toupokpi U. P. 
Schcol in the scale of pay , Is. 55-2-75 -EB - 3-90 - p . m . with 1). A. Applications stating 
honie address, quzlification , experi. nce , presint occupation aud mulier of living wives 
it married will be received by the undersigned on or hefort 28th January , 1956. The 
minimum qualification of the candidate should be a Matriculate and Kovid passed in 
Bindi. The candidates are required to attend the Office of tlic Inspector of Schools , 
Manipur on 31st January , 1956 at 10 a . m . with necessary certificates. Other things 
Leing equal preference will be given to the candidate who kuw s one or 

more of loval 
languages. 

NOTICE Vo . 1 , 5 , 52 . 

Imphal, the 2.?rd January , 1976 . 
Applications stating home address , qualificatio :18 . esperience Age and puwbor of 
living wives are invited for a pist of Lower Division Assistant in the Office of the 
Deputy Inspector of Schools ( Valley ) in the sale of pay , Rs. 49-2-10 -EB.3-8 - EB 
4-100 /- p . m . with D. A. The applications will be ruceived by the undersigned on 
or before 24th January , 1956. The applicants are required to attend the office of the 
Inspector of Schools , Manipur on 31st January , 19 : 6 at 10 A , M. with neces - ary 
certificates for interview . Other things lieing equal prefereucis will be given to the 
candidate who knows one or more of local languages . 

The minimum qualification should be a Matriculate with 2 yers clerical experience 
or an Intermediate passud . 

K.Gor: Singh , 

Inspectur of schools , Manipur . 
Imphal, the 17th January, 1956 
No 9 /JS /II.55-56 . - It is boreby notified for general informasion that pursuant to 
Section 20 of the Societies Registrution Act XXI of 1860 , an 18 oci tion under the 
name and style of Dovalaya Conunittue has been incorporated and numbered as No. 9 . 
of 1985-86 da eil the 17th January of the year one thousand nine bundred fifty 
six Anno Domini. 

U. M. Sinba , 
Registrar , Juint Stock Companies , Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 25 , 1956 . 


NOTICE No. 13 . 

Imphal, the 16th January , 19.6 . 
(General Elections-Preparation of the list of polling stati ins). 
A draft list of rolling stations for the next General elections has been published 
for general information and my lie inspooted in the Election Officeo , Implul during 
office hours upto 20th February , 1.9: 56 . Any objection to and 81.ggestion 

for , the 
draft list may ba inada ti the undersigned within this thus * pecified . 

G. P. Singh , 
Assistant Returning Oflicer, Manipur. 


time 


. 


Imphal, the 9th Janu : ry , 1951 , 
T lie Government of India are going to send in the 1st week of Sapteinl :r, 1956 fifteen 
practical (ndian farmers to Australia for six months pructical training in different fields of 
agriculture . Applicants who are between 30 and 4 years of age having a working know 
ledge of English and who are interested in development works and willing to return to their 
lands after visiting Australia can apply through the Assistant Secretary (WAF ) to the Govt . 
of Manipur on or before 31st January , 1956 in the prescribed application form obtainable 
from " The Foreign Aid Branch , M nistry of Food and Agriculture , i Queen Victoria Road , 
Nrw Delhi. The final selectiou of candidites will be made after an interview in Now 
Delhi, 

The Australia Governmeut will meet each candidate s cost of travel from the port of 
ombarkation in India to Australia and back and also pay hini a suitable allowance to meet 
his living and other essential expenses . 
Further details can be har from the Office of the undersigued . 

L. Udhol, Singh , 
Agricultural Oiticer, Manipur. 


PRESS NOTE . 
Imphal, the luth January , 1956 . 

EI IDEMIC OF HEAPATITIS IT DELN . 
Report has been received that le spatitis b orks out at Delhi. The disease mwy spreal 
to other parts of India through peple who had visited Delhi to seu ludustries Fair , 
Cautiou is necessary in this direoti in . 


Imphal, tho 19th January , 1956. 

JANUARY 26 TO BE A PAID HOLIDAY . 
In pursuance of instructions issued by the Union Ministry of Lalosur on pri vions 
anniversaries of the Republic Day, worhers were permitted to prticipate in the 
celebrations on January 21; without being made to suffer any loss in wages. 

A similiar directive has been issuel this year by the Government of I..dia to 
their officers in cha ge of industrial undertakings and they hope that othor employers 
as well will co -operate with them by declaring this national day as a . paid holiday . 

In view of the great importance of th : occasion , Government believe that inany 
i dastrial under : shing + have already prescribe 1 January 26 as one of their regular 
holidays ; but where this has not been don , they hope employers will trest thu 
day as an additional paid holiday and in it as a substituted holiday . 

Gopendra Sarma , 
Publicity Officer, Manipur. 


8 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 25 , 1956 . 


A 


Implial, the 26th December, 19955. 
Subject :-DAILY RAINFALL RETUGNS FOR TIIE MONTH OF SEPTEMBER , 1955 . 

( at) Stutement showing the total rainfall for each raingauge stations for 
September , 1955. 


. 


( 1) Civil Hospital Raingauge Station 

3.80 " 
( 2) Cantonment area 

8.13" 
( 3 ) Kangchupkhul 

0.16 " 
( 4 ) Tumenglong 

167" 
( 1 ) Number of rainy days i. e . days on which 0.10 " ( 10 cents ) or more has fallen for 
each station . 
( 1) Civil [ Iospital Raingay . Station 

7 dys 
( 2) Cantonment & ron 
( 3 ) Kangchupkhul 

12 days 
(4 ) Tomebylung 

10 days 
(c) Statement showiny rainfall of 0.10" or over with accounts in the proceding 
and following 24 hours during the month . 


7 days 


District , 


statiuni 


Dato 


Amount of pe- ondite in 
ceding day . 

c ) ]. 3 . 


Succeeding 

day . 


Manipur . Civil Hospital. 


1.27 " 


0.11 " 


3-9-55 
li- !l.55 
9-955 

-4.75 
19.1-55 


11.25 " 
13:3 
0.8 .)" 
01.311 " 


0.11 " 


1.16 " 


Cantonment 


11.41" 


0.15 " 


8 - !) - 55 
65.9.15 
111-11-55 
19-9-15 


54" 


0.25 " 
0.94 " 
11( ! " 
11.15 


0.33 " 


Kangchup 

khal 


0.15 " 


( 9.30 " 
() 32 " 
1.7" 


1.50 " 
( ).10 " 

32 " 


-1) ..15 
6-9-55 
9-9-55 
13 9-15 
1 : 1- !li 
2 .-- 4-1,5 
30 .. , - 55 


::;: 


( ), •, 00 * 
li 50 " 
(18 )" 


. 


( 5.12 " 


Tanien long 


4 - 1.5.1 
101-455 
12:10 
103-9-5 


3. :) 
1:31" 
() . 


1.25 " 
2. 2 
0.74" 
11.10 " 
040 " 
dir 


0.42 " 
02 
0.48 " 
0,11 : 35 
0.77 " 


0.70 


- 


7-3-5 .; 


. 


( 1. H. Singh , 
Asstt . Secrulary ( IFAC ) tu thru Govt . of Manipur . 


MA.VIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 25 , 


1959 . 


9 


# 


NOTICE No. of 1955-5.0 . 

Iniphal, the 23rd January , 1950 . 
Is hereby given thitt license for the undermentioned Excise Wholesale and 
Retail shops will be sol.l by auction for the year 1956-37 from the let April, 1956 
to 31st March , 1957 at the Excise Office at I p . m . on the 27th day of February , 
1950 subject to the fol owing conditions. 

1. The license sold will give the right of opening a shop only at the site named in the 
list bellow or on such site within 100 yards thercuf, is may be approved by the D.O. 
Excise provided that the D : ( ./Excise reserves to himself the right to tran - fer any 
retail shop from the locality spccitiid to some other locality in tlie nighsbourhood . 

2. Tie bidder shall have to deposit an eudest nioney of Hr. 100 , - (Rupees one 
l.uodred ) only in the linphal Tre : sury and produce the Treasury Chalan in the time of 
Bale , fwling wlich 110 one will be allowed to bid the sa e , Th . ea nest noncy will 
be refunded in case of unsuccessful bid . er id wil he couverted into a pirt of the 
caution money in ( 89e of the gliccessful bidder . 

3. Acceptance of hid will be su hject to the " pproval of the 1) .C . / ICxcise. Tlie under 
signed is not bound to accept the highest or any bid ; my exclude persons of notoriou.ly 
bird character ind my jefuse any bil deemed to be recklis or purely np cultive . 

4. The purchasır slid) icquired to pay two months fees on the dists of sale ,ce month s 
fou ou tlic date of which the currency of the license legi! s and one inonthi s fre on the first 
of every succeeding month until the ti tal lie du for the license bas been realised . 

5. When the license is kuocked down the purchaser is linile for any loss that may 
accrue to Manipur Gort, in caso it beconies necessary to re -sol fr a lower license 
fie or to re -settle it in consegrence of his failure to pay the mim jayale at the 
time of sile , Eich bidder whose bid is accepted , is bet , this conition in case 
of luis fuillet naka on irł luis bil un / will be lia sle io 

biri his bil unl will be lia le io psy the loss as provided 
in Motion 3.1 of the Westerit Bengal and Assuu Exc.si. Act, 1.9118 

If for any valid reason alienanse nfler its rollos le rrfirsd to the purchaser the 
odvrnil ceps it ris scurity patiel ly hin will be r -fueled in the purchaser . 

7. The lie : m of licons , will commence (TU :n the 1st April., 1995 ; in the purchaser 
is teenirea to op 11 liis shop on the cits his form of lisico31667 rcplinei c er or on such 
data is the. 1. l ! Excise mty oriler , fiiliny whivo his ibiValle deposit or scurity 
psid boy lopu will luci forfitoed ond his livello will be cucellid re - solid at his risk , 
ind se will be liaire fir illiy lease theirt mas acore to Monipur Govt . by the re -sulo . 

8. 11: e li ensee Will det le trin feribile per can it be mutlet without the previous 
sanction of the D. C. Excise . Maniulir . 

9. Ive lic: use will get supply of 1.4110r from tlir Distiller . © 1.12.:- per qri bottle 
auri it will be s ld 1 lit. 2 , - perrt boille . 

10. A fe of annis ./8 . pirere lotte is lovined on this link is of sule for such liquor 
fir Gort . Tine whicles ile Vodor will ship s liyor i thi. Siris - Vendors ar kö. 17 : 3 


per art battle , 


( 4 ) The Rotal Voodor will have to rilce the liquor at 30 , 0. U. p . 
( 13 ) The security deposit will be there 11 : 10 :- per " :TO . 
((!) Only the successful bidder can oppu sherp .: and duslin ( ountiy iquor. 

M.12t: lv tre of 
SI. Vo Site of shops . 

Thaua in whicle situated last sule . 


] . 


Wholesile & Retui ). Vendor 
of liquo : sbnp of Sekmai. 

-vio . -do- Imphal. 


2 . 


Tinplal. 

Hla . 26 / 
Impul. 

Ha . 121 
N. K. Singh , 
I spector of Excisc , Manipur ; 


1 


10 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 25 , 1958 . 


.. 


2 


NOTICE No. IS , 156 , 6 . 

Imphal, the 17th January, 1955 . 
Applications slating educational qualifications, previsus experience, additional qur . 
lifications , if any , nyarness of the cundidates hou e to the school and the number 
of living wives, if married , ( in the cas ; of malo Gandi lates ) are invited for two 
tomporary posts of acting teachers fwr the Singjamei Girls . I .. P. Sohool in the soule 
of pay , Rs. 30-40 , - p.m. with D.A. us admissible under the rules and will be received 
by the undersignéd , during offico bours upto the 4th February , 1956. Other things 
being equal, preference may be given tu fem..lo Matriculates for filling up the vacancity . 

Candidates are required to attend the office of the undersigued for iaterview at 
10 A.M. on the 6th Frbruary , 1956 with necessary certificates . 


Impbal, the 24th January , 1956. 
Sealed Tenders addresso l 10 the Inspector of Schools , Manipur, for the supply of the 
following articles will be received by the undersigued upto 11-30 A. M..of the 3186 
January , 1986 and will be opened up the same day before the tenderors at 12 noon . 
There shall be vo binding to aco.pt the lowos tender or to assigu any reason for 
acceptance of any tender. 

The articles will have to be delivered to tho Hoadmaster of the Moirang Govt. 
High School on or before the 10th of Marsh , 1966 , tu bis satisfaction . All the articles 
must be cf seas ned “ Uningthou ” timber and must be polished and varnished . 

The successful tendorer will have to dopusit an earnest money of Rs. 100, - (Rupees 
one bundred ) only . 


Quantity 
required . 

60 


50 


3 . 


13 


2 


Si. Name and description of the articles. 
No. 

1 . Bonch . Size 3.5 X 11 1 
2. Dusk . 3 } * 27 

Table 3 x 2 x 27 fitted with a small admirab below 

on the right side of size 2 x1} 2 
4. Secretariat Tables 4 x 3 ~ 2 with one small almirah bolow 

right of size 2 x 1 } x 15 aud & drawer on the left titted 

with resim on the top. 
8.• Class room table with one drawer size 3 * 24 * 23". 

6. Aimless chairs strongly built (all wood ) standard size , 
.! 7. Officers chair with arm standard sizo , 
8. Black - Board without frame having not more than 2 pioes of 

planks (41 x 3 } ). 
9 . Almirah flat "topped without cornishes with doors two- thirds 

glazed and one thirds pannel ( 6 } x 41 ~ 1 ) . 
10. Glass room library almirab to be fitted on the wall with 

paunel doors ( 17 x 2 ) 
11, Map hanger for keeping 4 ) . wall maps . 
12. Notice Board with wire.Det protectior 


6 


20 


7 


12 


2 


K. Goura Singh , 
Inspector of Schools , Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 25, 1956 . 


11 


NOTICE . 

Imphal, the 20th January , 1966 . 
No. VY.28 /86. - Sealed tenders are invited for construction of the following Trevis 
and Service Crates of the Veterinary Department and wil be received by the under 
sigoed upto 1 P. M. on the 8rd February , 1956 and will be opened on the Siamo 
day belore the tenderers. Full deails may be hud from the office during office hours. 

The successful tenderer is to .comploto tho construction within 30 days from 
the date of accsptance of his tender and deposit Rs. 50 ,- ás earnost money . 

The 
undersigne does not bird him elf to acce ,it the lowest or any ténder. Exact site . 
and places at which constructions are to be made will be pointed out by the Groga 
Breeding Officer and V.A.S. Thoubal. 

1. Ooo Trevis 
2. Four Service Crates ) At Thoubul Ky Village Areas . 

Five Service Crates at Kangpokpi, Kanglatombi, New Churachand pur, 

Ukhrul and Imphal. 
Particulars . 
Survice Crates . - Drums Fencing 15 in length b in height on one side only . The 
posts of the service crates will be of Sabi Kuhi of 6 " diametre . 

N. B. Ray , 
Offg . Chief Medical Officer (Vety . ). 


aon 


10 


No. Estt /55 , 56 , D. Ç . dated 18. 1. 56 . 
Applications in candidates own handwriting stating (i) address (perminent and 
temporary ) ( ii) Nationality ( iii) educational qualification and office exporienco ( iv ) age 
(v ) number and names of local languages known aud (vi) number of wives living , 
if married , are invited for the temporary posts of 2 Upper Division and 2 Lower 
Division Assistants in the scale of Rs . 100.5-150 , - and 40-2-50 -EB - 3-80 -EB - 4-100 / 
respectively with usual dearness allowance to reach the undersigned on or before 
the 30th January , 1966. The candidates are to appear before the Deputy Commi 
ssioner , Manipur for interview on the 31st Janvity 1956 at 10 A. M. 

Noue need apply who has nut p28.0d the B. A. examinatiou of a recognised Uni . 
Tissity for the Upper Division posts and Matriculation for Lower Division posts. 
Candidates who are in employment should submit their applications through the 
proper channel. 

M. Radherhyam Singh , 

Fishery Officer,. 

for Deputy Commissivner, Manipur. 
CORRIGENDUM . 

Imphal, the 16th January , 1956 . 
No. Estt / 1 / 66 (4 )-10.- Read " and Assistant Secretary (Claims) " for " Claims" occuring 
in the 3rd line of paragraph 1 and the 3rd and 4th lines of paragruph 2 of this 
Administration Order No. Estt : 1,55 ; 4 )-5 dated 13 1-66 regarding the grant of earned 
leuve to Sbri O. Kathipri. 

Imphal, the 2 ! st January 195 
Delet the words and figures with permission to prefix the 14th and 16th of 
January, public holiday and Sunday " occurring at the end of the first paragraph 
of this Administration Order No. Estt! 1,55 -( +). 5.datei 13.1.56 regarding grant of 
leave to Shri O Kathipri . 

By order etc., 

H , R. Singh , 
Asstt . Socrotary (GIL ) to the Govt. of Manipur . 


e 


is 


MANIPUR GAZETTÉ , JANUARY 25, 1969. 


নােটিশ নং Rev /1036/lc. 

তারিখ ১৯.৫ ইং । 
অসিদা ময় ওইদুনা মণিপুরগী এজাপুজা খংহলি । মন্ত্রমদি - খৃষ্টাৰ ১৯৫৫-৫৬ ইংগী লৌ নং . খোলী 
না হৌখিকা হিগ সেটা হয়দি পজিলা সুপা . মাপলগী হিসাৰত , দেখি ষ্টাব্দ ১৯৫৫ ইং ১ লা মনে 
হে লেখৎপা হেতে । এজনা অশি লাক্সি খু: ১৯৫৬ ইংগী মার্চ খাগী তারিখ ৩১ ফাওবা বিশাল 

বিগনি । পাইকাশিংনা মানা মানা এক থােক খাজনা পুক হায়খ মম অলি ও মা ি 
না জিদ দোকপি । 

ক্লিক : ১৯৫৬ ই ১ লা এপ্রিলদগদি মখদা ইরি মেট অলিগ মতুয়া পাট্টা খুদিংগী জরিমানা আদা বা 
লৌগন অদুগা প্রােসেস বা মতুংগদি পাট্টা খুদিগী প্রােসেস ফী হায়না লুপা ১ লৌৎকনি । 

জরিমানালী রেন 
১। লুপা ৫ , মা ফাওবা পুৰা পাট্টা খাদিজা 

• নিকি 
৫ , দগী হেন সুপা ১৫ , ফাওবা পুৰা পাটুাদা 

• মই অা 
• ১৫ দগী হেন ফাওবা বা পাট্টাদা 

৭ শিকিঅহয় । 
৪০ লগী হো পুব পাট্টা খাদিজা 

সুপা ১, অমা । 
নৌ ইংখােল লৈৰিরিবা প্রজা পুমা জরিমানাশিং অসি দিনা মাগী মাগী তহশীল আফিলদা খীফ 
পাখনা লােইনা • থীলোকপিহৌন হয়নি । 
ইন্দাল, ভা , ১১/১৯৫৬ ইং 

এ এস শুরা 

ডিপুটি কমিশনার মনিপুন । 
Notice undor or I. ,. R . 8. C. P. C. 

Munsiff Court Title suit No. 101 
মহা মহিম এল এযুক্ত মুন্সফ আদালতকী কুম, তুই । নোটিশ অসিনা মরম ওইদুনা সলেবন্দ সলাম লৈকাই 
লৈরি । চৌকিদায় মন অং সলাম শাগৈলা খংহপ্পি । 
বারমনি -১ মং । এসলাম অনুসিংহ সাং সগােলৰ সলাম লৈকাই । 

২ নং । ঐসলাৰ ইৰােমশসিংহ সাং কৈশমপী থােকচোম কাই । 
আসলাম অাহলসিং সাং সগোলবন্দ সলাম লৈকাই উক্ত বাদিয়না ইফাল পানা ৯ নং 1 , W. T. সাং শগােল 
শলাম লৈকাইদা লৈ উক্ত বিষাদিন দখন তোৰিবা সম অসি সলাম শাশৈগী মােফমনি ময়ুম মকৈ শিদোকহনবিয়ু বা 
কেশ থাৎ উক্ত বাদি অনি সলাম শাগৈগী মংখিন ওইনা লৌরনা কেশ তৌৰা করি গুঝা য়ানিজ লৈয়ৰণি 
ভাং ৬২৬ ইং ফাওবগী মনুংদা না নানা কেশত যাওনিংবা লৈৱৰ গাওজগে হায়না নগা হয়নি বা পুৰু ইক্ষু 
খাস্থ থারগদবনি । 

উক্ত তা কাণ্ডব মন্দা কনাগুম্বন আপত্তি তৌদ্ৰবদি সলাম শাগৈনা মারে হায়না কোর্টনা লোদুন । উক্ত নিপ 
নি , আমি প্রতিনিধি ওইনা ( কাদি ) সেরা কেশ চথরগনি । 

Munsiff " 

Manipur. 
CORRIGENDUM . . 

* Imphal, the 14+ Januury , 1986 . 
No. APW /CMV/ 21/ 58. - Road XXXIX " for. " XXXXX ” ooourring in rule .(4 ) of 
enlistment of contruotors in the P.W.D). Manipar va paga 0 of Manipur Gazette , 
Jannary 4 , 1956 . 

G , H , Singh , 
Asstt. Seoretary (WAF) 
to the Govt. of Manipur . 


৫ 


. 


। 


। 


+ 


Impbászon Printed and publikoa by so superintendent Government Prous O. 244/25.1-56 


Manipur 


.Gazette 


ÉXTRAORDINARY 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 54 - E - 16 


İmphal, Monday , January 30 , 1956 . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 
Ordors by the Chief Commiwioner . 

NOTIFICATION . . 

Imphal, the 24th November, 1958 . 
No. J / 15 / 54 (d ) .- The Insurance ( Amendment ) Ordinance 1965 published in the 
Gazette of India, Extraordinary Purt II , Section I dated 1. 11. 66 is republished in 
the Manipur Gazette for general information . 

A. K. Ray, 

Chief Secretary 
to the Govt . of Manipar. 


THE INSURANCE ( AMENDMENT ) . ORDINANCE , 1955 , 

No. 6 of 1955 
Promulgated by the President in the Sixth Year of the 

Republic of India 
An Ordinance further to amend the Insuranoe Act , 1938. 
WHEREAS Parlia ment is not in session , and the President is satisfied that 
circumstances exist which render it nccessary for him in tako immediate action ; 

Now , THEREFORE , in exercisa of the powers conferred by clause ( L ) of 
article 123 of the Constitntion , the President is pleased to promulgate the 
following Qrdiance. 

1. [1] This Ordinance may be called the Insurance ( Amen.lment ) Ordi. Short title 
Qanoe , 1955 , 


- 


and como 
menceniant. 


IV FIN 


af now 900 
tion 32BB , 


[ 2 ] It shall come into force at once . 

2. In the Insurance Act, 1938 [ hereinafter referred to as tho principal Insertion 
Act l, aftor section 52B , the following section shall be insertol, namely 

" 52BB . [1] If the Administrator is satisfied that any person " has Powerms of 
røndered himself liable to be proceeded agaiust under section 106, he may, tot respecta 
pedding the institution of proceedings against such person under that sing proper 
soction , by order in writing , prohibit him or any other person from trans- attachment 
ferring or othorwise dis posing of any property whigh , in the opinion of under seo 
the Administrator , would be liable to attachment in procuodings under 
that Rection . 

[2] Any person aggrieved by an order Imade by the Administrator 
under sub- section ( 1 ) may , within fourteun days from the date on which 
the order is served on him , appeal against snoh order to the Central Govera . 
mont, and the Central Government may pass such order thereon as it thinks fit. 

( 3) Aa order made by the Administrator under sub -Bootion (i] shalt. 
nabject to any order made by the Contral Government on appeal, be in 
farce for a period of three months from the date of the order andean , 
before the expiry of the said period , an application is made nnder sub 
section ( 1 ) of "soction 108 to the court compotent to ešeroise jurisdiction 
under that sub -section , and when such so application is made , the order 


MANIPUR GAZETTE JANUARY 30 , 1936 


... 


hall, spbject to any order made by that court, continue in foros m 
it wore an order of attachment made by tuit cuart in propoeding unlar 
that section . 
(4 ). An ordor made by the Administrator under this section shall, 

( - ) in the case of an order affecting a corporation or firm 
ba nervod in the minner provided for the service of summoog. in rule 
2 of Order XXIX or rule 8 of Order XXX , 48 the ABC 18 
in the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Prooedaro , 1908 and 

(b ) in the case of an order affecting i person not being дотро 
ration or . firm , be served on suoh person 

(i) Personally , by delivering or tenderiug to him the order , or 
( ii ) by post, or 

( iii ) where tha person cannot be found , by loaving a copy of 
the order with home adult male member of his family or by af 
xing kuch copy to somo conspicuous part of the promises in which 
he is known to have last resided or carried on businoss or por 

Ronally worked for gain , 
and every such order shall also be published in the Offioial Gazette . 

( 5 ) . If any question ariges whether a purson was duly served with an 
order under sub - section (4 ) , the publication of " the order in the official 
Gazette shall be conclusive prouſ that the order was 80 perved , and a fai 
lure to comply with the provisions of clause (Ⓡ) or clause (l ) of mub see 
tion (4 ) shall not affect the validity of the order , 

( 6 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section , any property 
in respect of which in order has been made hy the Administrator may , 
with the previous permision of the Adininistrator and fuhject to 

suhjeot to mnoha 
torms and conditions as he may impose ; be transferred or otberwise din 
Hosed of 

(7 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time 
: being in force, the transfer or other disposition of any property in con 

travention of any order made by the Administrator under this woction or 
of any terms and conditions imposed by him shall be void . 

( 8 ) For the purpusu of enabling him to form au opinion as to whe 
ther any property would be liable to attachment in proocodings nuder Rec 
tion 106 or for the purpose of euablity hiin tos institute proceedingt under 
that section the Administrator may require any person to furnish informa 
tion on such points or matters as in the opinion of the Administrator 
may be relevant for the purpose, and any person so required shall the 
deemed to be legally bound to furnish such informatiou within the mua 
ning of section 176 of the. I udian Pennl Code. 

(9 ) The " Administrator shall have all the powers of a civil court under 
the Code of Oivil Propudure, 1908 , while trying & suit in respect of the 
following matters, namely : 

(a ) summoning and enforcing the attendance of witnesses and eka 
mining them on oath ; 

(b ) requiring the production of documents ; and 

( c) receiving evidence on affidavits ; 
and any proceeding before the Administrator under thix Radtion shall bei 
duemed to be a judicial proçending within the meaning of section 108 
and 228 of the Iuding Peant Code , 


. 


XLY . 
1860 . 


v al 1908. 


TIV of 
1880 . 


1 


( TO ) Save.am providrd in this tection or in motion 108 ; and notwith 
standing anything coutaimed in any other la 

for the time being 
othier legal proocoding shall die 

shall to in octare 
Bet aside , or 

any order of tho Admiuistrator 
Government mode under this webisa, hud 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 30 , 1956 . 


(h ), no court shall pass any docroe, grant any injunction or make 
any other order which shall have the effect of ualifying or affecting 

in any way any such order." . 
8. la section 52G of the principal Act , ia sub- section ( 1 ), for the words Amorador 
and figures " sections 62A to 520 inclusive" , the following shall be substi. S . 
totod , namely 

" seation 62 A , section 52B , section 52BB or section 52C ." 
4. For section 106 of the principal Aot ; the following sootion shall be, a ti shall 
be deemed always to have been , sutstituted , namely me 


Substitution 


tion for Xoc 
tion 106. 


Power of 
court to or 
redor restora 
Hon of pro 


perty of in , 


compensa 
tlon la car 
tais cases . 


" 106. (11 If , on the application of the Controller or an Administrator 
appointed under section 52A or an insurer or any policy holder or any mombor 
of an insura nos company or the liquidator of an insuranod company ( in the 
event of the ingurance company being in liquidation ) , the court ie satisfied 

( a ) that any insurer (including in any case where the insurer is 
an insurance company any person who has taken part in the promotion 
or any past or present director , managing agent, manager , secretary 
or liquidator) or any officer , employee or agent of the insurer , 

(i) has misapplied or retained or become liable or booom . 
Rocountable for any money or property of tho insurer ; or 

(ii) has been guilty of any misfcasance or vreach of trast 
in relation to the insuror ; or 

(b ) that any person , whether he is or bar beon in any way 
connected with the affairs of the insurer or not , is in wrongful 
ponsession of any money or property of the insurer or having any such 
money or property in his possession wrongfully withholds it or has 
converted it to any use other than that of the insurer ; or 

(c) that, by reason of any contravention of the provisions of 
this Act, the amount of the controlled fund within the uitaning 

of sectiou 27 A has been diminished ; 
the court may examine any such insyror, direotor , managing agent, na 
nager or liquidator or any such officer , employee or agent of the insured 
or such other person , as the cast may be , and may compl him to contribute 
Auch sums to the agrets of tho insurer by way of compensation in respect of the 
misapplication , retainer , mislearance or breach of trust as the court thinks fit , 
or to pay such sum as may be found duo from him in respect of any money 
or property of the insurer for which he is liablo or accumulable or to 
restore any money or prcperty of the insurer or 

any part thereof, as the 
CARA may bo ; and where the amount of the controlle fond løs been dimic , 
nished by reason of any contravention of the provisions of this Avt, the 
court shall have power to ORROKA ther guin by which tho amint of the 
fnod has been diminished and to order the person grilty of wuch contra 
vention to cuatribute to the fund the whole or any part of that sum by 
way of compensation ;- and in any of the aforepaid care s the court shall 
have power to order interest to be paid åt auch rate and from such time 
as the court may deem fit , 

( 2 ) Without prejudice to the provisigns aintained in subanection ( 1) or 
enb -kection (3) , where it iş proved that any money or property of an in 
gurer bag disappeared or has been love the court shall presunt that every 
perega in charge of , or haviug a disposing power .uyer, such money or 
property at the relevant time (whether a director, manager , principal officer 
or any other ( figer ) box become accountable for such money or proximity 
within the meaning of sub -olanse (i) . of clanse ( ) of sub - oction (1 ), and 
#hio provisions of that web -sootion shall apply accordingly , unlesi , suol por 
søn proves that the mouwy or property time vean ntilised , or disponed of in 
the ordinary course of the business of the insura aid for the purpose of 
#bint business or that he took all rousunable topo to prevent the dimppuun 


1 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 30, 1968. 


rance or form of such money or property or otherwiso satisfactorily accounts 
for such cisappearance or 1088 . 

(8 ) Where the insurer is en insurance company ind any of the sota 
referred to in olauses ( a ) , ( b ) and (c) of gub -rection ( 1) has boon commi 
tted by any person , every person who mar at the relevant time , director , 
managing agent, manager, liquidator, Secretary or other offider of the insu . 
rande company , shall, for the purposes çf that sub -section , be deemed to 
be liable for that act in the same manner and to the samno extent An 
the person who beu.committed the act, pn ] ers he proves that the rot man 
committed without his consont or ounuiyance and was not facilitated by any 
nogloot or ommission on big part. 

(4) Where at any stage of the proceedings against say person under 
this section ( hereinafter referred to as the delinquent ), the court is satie 
fied by affidavit or otherwise 

(a ) that a prima facie caso hau been made out against the delia 
quent ; and 

(b ) that it is just and proper so to do in the interests of the 
polioy -holders of an inkurer or of the members of no insurance company , 
the court may direot the attachment of 

(i) any property of the insurer in the possession of the delin . 
quent ; 

(ii ) any property of the delinquent which belongs to him or 
ie deemed to belong to him within the treening of sub -section (5 ); 

( iii ) Any properly transferred by the delinquent within two 
years before the commoncement of proceedivgs vader sub -scotion 
(1 ) or during the pendonoy of such proceeding #, if the court is 
satisfied by affidavit or otherwise that the transfer was otherwiro 

than in good faith and for consideration . 
( 5 ) For the parposes of sub -section ( b), the following classes of pro 
perty shall be deomed to belong to a delinquent, 

( a ) any property standing in the name of any person which by 
reason of the person being connectod with the delinquent , whether by 
way of relationship or otherwiso , or on account of any other relorant 
cirouinstances apports to bolong to the delinquent ; 

(1 ) the property of a private company in respect of the affaire 
of which the delinquent, by himself or through his nomineus , rentives , 
partnera or persons interosted in any wheros of the company, is able to 
exaroine or is entitled to require control, whether direct or indiroct . 

Explanation . For purposes of this seotion a person shall be deemal 
to be • nominee of » delinquent , if , whether directly or indirectly he podagsbes 
on behalf of the delinquent, or may be required to exercise on the direction 
or on behalf of the delinquent , any right or power whion is of such 
nature as to enable tho delinquent to exord[He or to entitle the delinquent to 
acquire control over the company s affnirs , 

(8) Ady olaim to any property attached under this seotion or any 
ohjeetion to such attachment shall be made by an application to the 
court , and it shall be for the claimant or objeotor to addue evidence to show 
that the property is not liable to attachment under this seotion , and the 
court shall proceed to investigate the the . olnim or objection in a summrry 
mioner , 

(7) When disposing of ap applipation ander sub -rection (!), the court 
shall aftor giving all persons who sppear to it to be interested in any property 
attached under this section an opportupity of being beard , mako nuob order 
as it thinks At respeosing the disposal of any such property for the pur.. 
pose of effectanlly anforcing any liablity under this spotion , and we want 
persons iball be doomed to be parties to the proonedingo,upder this monition 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 30 , 1956 . 


slu 


VII of 1913 . 


(8 ) Ip my proudolings nader tbix spetivo the suurt shall have tall 
power ad exclupivo jurisdiotion to droide all y lations of any 

rehatsoever arising therrunder and , in particular , with rempoot tu any pro 
porty attached under this motion , and no other court shall have jurisdiction to 
dooide any such qnestion in way suit or other legal provoading . 

(9) In making any order with rospect to the disposal of the property 
of any private oumpany referred to in alkanu ( b ) of sub - section (5 ), the court 
shall have due regard to the interests of all persops interested in snob 
property other than the delinquent and poreons referred to in that claung . 

(10) This section shall apply notwithstanding that the not is one for 
which the person concerned may be oriminally liable. 

( 11 ) In proceedings ondor tbio section - the court hall have all the 
powors which court has under section 237 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 . 

(12) This votion shall apply in respect of . 00- operativo 801pty as 
defined in Part III as it applies in respect of an insurer , 

( 18 ) Oo and from the commepoement of the Insurance ( Amendment ) 
Ordinance , 1955 , the court untitled to exerciso jarioliption under this sec 
tion shall be the High Court within whose jarisdiwtion the registered 
office of the ipsurer is gituate ( boreinafter roferred to as the High Court ) 
and any proceedings - un fer this section pooding at suola comuengement in 
any court other than the High Court shall , on each commencement, stand 
transferred to the High Court, 
(14 ) The High Cuart may make rulos providing form 

(a ) the manner in which enquirips and praceedings may be held . 
under this guotion ; 

(b ) any other matter for whioh provision has to be made for enabling the 
High Court to effectively exercise its jurisdiotion andør this section ." 
5. In section 107 of the principal Act, in sub - section (1 ), 

( a ) after the words " the Cuatrollor " , the worls and Agaros " or an Admini 
strator appointed unqor seotion 52A " shall be inserted ; 

(b ) for the words, brackets and figures " uny director, marger or other 
officer of an insurer or any person who is liable under sub -section (2 ) of seation 
41" , the words , bracket and figures " way director , managing agent, manager, 
secrotary lior other officer of an insurer or any liquidator or any employee or 
agent of an innurer or any purson who is liable nudler sub -scution (2 ) of section 
41 or any other persoa bhall be substitnted . 

RAJENDRA PRASAD 

President. 


waendaent 

of spotion 
107, 


K. Y. BHANDARKAR , 
Seorotary to the Govt. of India . 


Imphal, the 3rd January , 1966 . 
No. J/ 15 /54.- The Indian statop ( Ameud ment) Act , 1055 is published for general 
information . 

A. K. Ray , 

Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 
THE INDIAN STAMP (AMENDMENT) ACT, 1955 

(48 of 1966 ) . 

An 

Aot 
infant them to amend the Indian Stamp Act , 1899 , 
Bp it enacted ,by Parliament in the sixth Tow of the Republio of 
Indi ma follows : 

1. ( 1) Thing Ache par le meilled the Indian tangap ( me print downton :) Short 
da , 1956 . 


00 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 80 , 1986 . 


of vection 1 


of section s . 


( 21 It shall come into foi ce on such date 88 the Central 
Goveri meni may , by nutilication in the Official Gazette , appoint. 

2. In the ludian Stamp Act, 1899 (hereinafter referred to as Subacitorio 
II o 1899, 

the principal Act) , unless otherwise exprealy provided , for the words of " Indien 
“ the States wherever they occur, the word " India " bhall be sub . Staten " . 
stituted , 

8. Jn section 1 of the principal Aot , for sub - section (2), the Amendment 
following sub-section shall be substituted , namely : 

“ ( 2 ) It extends to the whole of India except the State of 
Jammu and Kashmir : 

P ruvided that it shall not apply to Part B States (excluding the 
State of Jammu and Kashmir ) except to the extent to which the pro 
Visions of this dot relate to rutas of stamp duty in respuot of tho 
documents specified in entry 91 of List 1 in the Seventh Schedule 
to the Constitution ." 

Amendmont 
4. In section 2 of the principal Act, 

( 8 ) after clause (13) , the following clause shall be inserted , 
namely : 

im 

" ( 13.4 ) India inears territory of India escluding the Stato 
of Jawmu and Kasbmir , " ; 
(b) after clause (19), the following clause shall be inserted , namely : 

" [19A ) policy of group insuranco means any instrument cove . 
ring not less than fifty or such smaller number as the Central 
Government may approve , oither generally or with reference to any 
particular case , by which an insurer, in consideration of a premium 
paid by an employer or by an employer and his employees jointly , 
ongages to cover , with or without medical examination and for the 
sole benefit of persons other than the employer, the lives of all the 
employees or of any class of them , determined by conditions pertaining 
to the employment, for amounts of insurance based upon a plan whicb 
precludes individual selection ; 
(c ) clause ( 26) shall be omitted . 

6. In clause (o) of sub- section (2) of section 10 of the priocipal 
motion 10. Act , the words " written in any Oriental language " shall be omitted . 

6. In sub -section (1 ) of section 57. of the principal Aot, -- 

(i) in clause (al, for the words and letter " Part A State " , the 
words and letters “ Part A State or a Part B State " shall be 
substituted ; 

( ii) in olause (b ) , for the word " Ajmer , the words “ Ajmor 
or Vindhya Pradesh " shall be substituted ; 

( iii) in clauko ( d ) , for the words " Bilaspur, Dehli and Hima 
chal Pradesh " , the words " Debli or Himachal I rodesb " shall be 
substituted ; 

( iv ) after clausel (f). the following clause shall be inported , 
namely : 

" ( ff ) if it arises in Manipur or Tripura , to the Eigh Coast 
of Adam " ; 

7. In Schedule I to the principal Act, 
Schedul. I. 

(1) ia entry 13, for item (m ), the following item shall be 
substitutod , napadly 


Amand 

ont of 


ned 


section 57 . 


ngadment 


- 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 80 , 


1956 . 


7 


Proper Stamp- duty 


Vescription of Instrument, 
" (c ) Whuro piuyable al mure than one year after date or sight . 
where the amount does not exceed Rs. 10. 


Two apnas. 


where it exceeds Rs . 


10 


and does not exceed Rs . 50 


Four anpas . 


- 


Ditto . 


60 


Ditto . 


100 


Litt ) . 


100 


Ditto . 


... 


200 


Eight annas . 
One Rupeo . 
Ono rupee eight 
anpas. 


Ditto . 


200 


Ditto.. 


300 


300 


Ditto . 


Ditto . 


400 


Two rupees . 


400 


Ditto . 


... 


Ditto . 


800 


Two rupeau oight 
ADDR . 


Ditto . 


600 


Ditto . 


600 


Three rupeck . 


700 


Ditto . 


Ditto , 


600 


Three rupoos 
eight annas. 


800 


Ditto . 


Ditto . 


Four rupoon. 


700 


1 . 


900 


Ditto . 


Ditto . 


Four rupees eight 


800 


& Odas , 


Ditto . 


1,000 


Five rupoos . 


900 


Ditto . 


Two rupees eight 


and for overy Ro. 500 or part thoroof in excess of Rs. 1,000 


AniD48 , 


3 


( ii) for entry 27 , the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 


Proper Stamp-daty . 


1 


Description of Instrument . 
" 27. DEBENTURE (whethor a mortgage debenture or not ), 

being a marketable security transferable 
(a ) by ondorsement or by a separate instrument of transfer 
where the amount or value does not excoed 

Rs. JO 
where it exceeds Rs. 10 and does not exceed 

Rs. 60 


Threo apana. 


Sir BADAN . 


ditto , 


60 


100 


Ditto , 


ditto . 


200 


· 100 


Ditto . 


Twelve sanns. 
Ono rupee sight 

Sopas . 
Two rupeos four 
anda . 


200 


ditto . 


300 


Ditto . 


*** 


ditto . 


300 


400 


Three rupees . 


Ditto . 


ditto . 


400 


800 


Ditto . 


ditto . 


600 


Ditto . 


500 


Three rupeos 

twolvo annas . 
Four rupeos 

oight annas . 
Fivo rupees four 
Indas . 


4 


- 


700 


ditto . 


Ditto . 


600 


1 


800 


700 


ditto . 


Sis fupewn . 


Ditto . 

. 


800 


ditto . 


900 Six rupeer 


Ditto . 


twelve sapu 


MANIPUR GAZETER JANUARY 80. 1980 


Panonimpebote of Instrument. 


Propon,walam pertemuan 


where it exceeds R 900. und door aut odvod Rs . 1,000 


Seven rxpa 
eight par 


and for spory ka . 600 px port thervol in toplo of Ra ; 1,000 


The map 
tivo e 


( b ) by delivery 
where the amonnt of valus of the oongideration for such debenture 

me set forta thorrin does not exoned Rı. 50 . 


Twelvo DBA 


whore it excondo Rs. 50 


but does not exceed 


Ro . 


100 


Ono fupeo eight 


Annal . 


Ditto . 


100 


ditto . 


200 


Three rupeol . 


:: 


Ditto . 


200 


ditto , 


... 


300 


Rout хороо 
eight sana.. 


Ditto . 


300 


ditto . 


400 


Six rupeed . 


:: 


Ditto . 


... 


400 


ditto . 


500 


Ветер хороо 
eight andas . 


Ditto . 


500 


ditto . 


800 


Nino rapoera 


Ditto . 


600 


ditto . 


700 


Ten rupoos eight 


donas. 


Ditto . 


700 


ditto . 


800 


Dito . 


Twelve rupees 
Thirteen rapon 
eight aDDAL 


800 


ditto . 


900 


Ditto . 


900 


ditto . 


1,500 


Fiftoen rupees . 


and for overy Ro . 500 or part thereof in excess of Rs . 1,000 


Savon rupena 

wight HunAT 


oplanation - Tho tam " Dobentura " includes any interest conpons 

attached thereto but the amount of much coupons 
shall not be ivoluded in estimating the duty . 

Exemption , 
A debentur ia ued by an incorporated company or other 

body corporate in terms of a registered mortgage 
dead , duly stamped in raspoot of the full amount of 
debentares to be insúed thorounder , whereby the 
empuny or body borrowing makes Over, in whole or 
in part, this property to trustbus for the benefit of 
tho debantun cintorn : 
Provided that the debanturno xo issued #ro axpregned 
everything to issued ia terms of the mind. 


doud . 


i 


ficken in antry # 7 , in Division 

to lp tho opluma hengland Diption of Iustimmtes , for the wall painting 
IN MUKANA , the word pats RANCH deOTR 2XTRAS 

HER 21AF05 had to 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , JANUARY 90 , 1966. 


9 


1 


(b ) in the column beaded “ Pro Stamp-duty ", after the table of duties , the 
following note shall be inserted , namely : 

N. B. - If a policy of “ group insurance is renowed or otherwise modified 
whereby the sum insured exceeds the sum previously insured on which stamp 
duty has been paid , the proper stamp must be borne on the 

So insured . " ; 
( iv ) in entry 62 , for clause (a) , the following slause shall be substituted , namely : 


excess sum 


Desoription of Instrument. 


Proper Stamp-duty . 


" (a ) of shares in an incorporatod company or other 

body corporate ; 


Twelve ennas for 
every bunderd 
rupees or part 
thoroof of the 
value of the 
share ." .. 


Repeal and 
Havings. 


8. (1 ) If , immedintely before the commencement of this Act , there 
is in force in any State any law fixing rates of stamp duty in respeot 
of the documents specifind in entry 91 of List . I in the Seventh Schedule 
to the Constitution such law , to the extent to which it is inconsistent with 
the principal Act as amended by this Act , shall on such commencement 
stand repealed . 

( 2) For the removal of doubts it is hereby declared that section 6 
of the Goveral Clauses Act, 1897 , shall apply upon such repeal as if such 
la w bad been an enactment, 


X of 1897 . 


M 


1 


Ion 


Printed and published by the Superintendent Government Preus Q. 223/ 90-1936 


Manipur 


Gazette 


More TuS 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 56 


Imphal, Wednesday, February 8 , 1956 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Pune 


. 


1 to 2 


Part III.- Orders, Notifications, Rules of 

tho Government of India , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Noticos mo. 


Part I.-- Appointments , Poatings , Transfers , Powers, 

Love and other personal noticen , 
Part II . - Roxolutions, Regulations, Ordern , Notifi 

cations , Rules etc. 


5 to 
9 to 15 


2 to 4 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR. 


Orden by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 1st Fubruary, 1956 . 
No. CA44/55 / 43 .-- The Chief Commissioner has been pleased to appoint Shri M. 
Gojendra Singh , M.A. , LI..B., leoturer in the D. M. College, Imphal as temporary Assistant 
Secretary to the Government of Manipur - Education Department in the soule of 
Ro. 250-260-300 (Con )-25-400(EB)-2.1-600 (EB) -23–160 vide Shri L. Manibar Singh , 
B.A., B.Ed. who bas been appointed as Inspector of Schools under this Secretariat Order 
No. C.EH/32/66/1 dated 1st Fobruury , 1936 . 


Iwplal, the 1st February , 1956 . 
No : CEH /32 56 /1.— The Chief Commissioner has been pleased to appoint Shri L 
Manihar Singh , B.d., B.Ed . at present te rporacy Assistant Secretary to the Government 
uf Manipur, Education Department. as Inspector of Sch :jols , Manipur in the soule of 
Rs. 176-16-250-20-360 ( EB )-25-400 /- plus usual dearness allowance vice Shri K. Gouro 
Singh , B. 1. who relinquishes the post on retirement from the foronoon of the first Febru- · 
ery , 1966. Further, the Chief Cumınissioner has been pleased to fix the initial salary of 
Shri L. Manjhar Singh , B.A.,B.Ed . at Rs. 235 /- in the above scals . He will be on probation 
for a period of oue year . 

T. Kirgen , 
Secretary (HD ) to the Gort. of Manipar. 


Imphal, the 2nd February , 1966 . 
No. Regis 2 /54. - The Chiot Commissioner is pleased to appoint Maulavi. Md. Mani 
ruddin Chowdhury, B.A. temporarily as Sub-Registrar in the scale of Rs. 100-10-250 / - with 
effect from 10.2.50 for six months or till a regular appointment is made wbichover is 
earlier , vioo Shri Magachang Raikham . 

H. R , Bingha , 
Asatt . Socy . (GIL ), to the Govt. of Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 8, 1988. 


Imphal, the 31st January, 1956 , 
No. IMD / 38 /85 The Chief Commissioner is plewaed to allow D ... Budhtmanta , M.O. 
Ukbrul Hospital to officiate in the pust of ( hief Medical Odoor, Manipur in thn pay 
Houle of ks. 600-26-700 - EB - 25-900 /- P.M. with vffect frim the 81st January , 1980 
after noua vice Dr. Nandibabu Roy , Offg . C. M. ( . granted Study Leuve in the Manipur 
Government Ordor No. IMD , 182/55 dated the 28th Jan., 1966 . 


By Order eto .. 

K. G. Singh , 
Asalt. Secr . (MVT) to the Govt. of Manipur. 


PART 1 


Imphal, the 3rd February , 1966 , 
No. J, 12/86 : - In exercise of the powers conferred by @ ub -saction (3 ) of Seotion i 
of the Manipur (Courts ) Act, 1955 (Aot 56 of 1966 ), the Obief Comuvissioner boreby 
appoints the 1st day of March , 1956 , as the date on whioh the said Act shall come 
into force iu the State of Manipur. 

T. Kipgen , 
Seoretary to the Government of Manipur . 


Imphal, the 1st February , 1956 . 
No. F - DPC /7 , 55/ B. - The Chief Commissioner is pleased to order the constitution of 
a Block Advisory Board for the National Extension Servioe Blook at Ukhrul Sub - Division 
consisting of the following members, from the date of issue of this order upto the 31at 
March , 1959 . 

1. 8.0.0 . (Rovenue)-Chairman . 
2. B.D.O., Secretary - In his absence on training the S.E.O. detailed for conducting 

preliminary works in the proposed Bluok anda muy act us 

Secretary 
8. Shri Rishang Keishing . M.P., 

Member , 
4. Looal E.C.Mombors, 

-do 
8. O.C., Police Station , Ukbrul 

do 
6. Agrioultural Officer of the Sub-Divisional area -do 
7. Forest Beat ofcor , Ukbrul 

-do 
8. D.I. of Schools ( Triba !) 

.do . 
Tribal Dev . Officer 

-do 
Vety . Asstt. Surgeon Ukhrol Vety , Dispensary. -do 
11. 8.D.O., PWD , i /o Ukhral Sub - Division 

• do 
12. Co -operative Inspootor of the Sub- Division dou 
13. Head Master , Ukbral Govt. High Sohool .doc 
14. Medical Officer , Ukhrul Govt. Hospital 

-do 
16. Four other Presidenta / Bogretarios of village Authorities ( non- oficial - to be filled up 

by the Development Commissioner ). 


T. Kippen , 
Seoretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 8 , 1956 . 


Impbal, the 28th January, 1986. . 
No. B - TP /5,5 ). In continuation of the Manipur Govt . Order No. B - TP /5,51 dated 
24th of ( otobar , 1956, the Chief O mmissioner is plonged to continue the re-employment of 
Shri 8. C. Pallo a Oficer on Special Duty , Manipar Stute Transport for # farthor 
period of three months or till the posting of a regular offiour whichever is earlier. 


A. K , Ray , 
Chlef 8 oretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


Imphal, the 8rd February , 1986 , 
No. R / 4,53-111 -- The Chiet Commissioner is pleased to order the de- reservation 
of 4 Paris of luad as per description below from the Nungoi Village grazing ground 
with efect from 14 Februiry , 1966 , for uso as the Head Quarters of the N. E. 8 . 
Blook , Imphal East : 
North & East 

Grazing ground . 
South 

Ukhrul Road 
West 

Grazing Ground & Compound of Saombung 
Panihiyat . 

T. Kipgen , 
Suoretury to the Govt . of Manipur. 


NOTIFICATION . 

Imphal, the 6th Febi uary , 1956 . 
No.G - TF Misc 3/53. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Seotion 296( 3 ) of the 
Anseln Muniipal Act 1923 (Assam Art 1 of 1923), as extended to the State of Manipur 
by the Government of Indir, Ministry of State Notificat.on No. Y. R (). 147, diced 
the oth Jinuo y 1982 , the Chiet Commissioner is pleased to make the following 
amendments in the Rules made for thy oleotion of Memburs of Muvioip.md Boards in 
Manipur under the said Aot published under this Governinent Notification No. J/ 31 /62, 
dated the 10th November , 1952 in the Manipur Gazette Extra - Ordinary dated tho 
28th November , 1952. The amendments shall take effect from the date of pablioation 
ia tiho Gazette 

A draft of these amendments was published in the Manipur Gazetto Extra -Ordidary 
of the 23rd Januvy, 1954 uuder Notification No. TF /Mi80 /8 /63 dated the 21st January , 
1956 , as required under the Section cited above . 

AMENDMENTS . 
1. After Rille 19 (1) » f the said rules , add the following sub -rule as sub - ralo (TA ), 

Damely 
( 1.4 ) In any Ward or Section Constituencies , where it has been decided that the 
method of voting by ballot boxes shall be followed , the nominutiqu p per shall also 
be accompanied by a declaration that the cindiriate for eleqtiin bns selootrd . Aymbol 
trona tho liat specified in the schedule to thono rules , No candidato in woh Consti 
tuonoioy shall be deemed to be daly nominaled unlun puoh declaration is delivered 
along with nomination paper. 
Such deolanation may be made in Form BB. 
Stor olause all of Rule 89 (1), add the following olute as c !2 @ ne (m ), namwaly 

and the core of method of voting by aymbol : 


+ 


After 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 8, 1986 , 


(*) The Chairman skall provide at each polling statmo ant ballal bou 
ouch of the Capdidates in each inner compartment thereof and the ballot to 
shall be so placed in the compartment that a rotor can insert tale ballot paper 
any of the boxes without being obeerved by any other person. 

( ii) The symbol anrigned to each such candidate shall be printed out the contenido 
of the ballot boxes of the respective onndidates . The ballot box of Bologna 
didate shall also be plearly marked with his name in English , Manipuri or any 
other vernacular languages as many , be decided by the Chairman : 

(ii) Outside and inside each Polling Station there shall be displayed on bonda 
to be provided for the purpose by the Chairman iu bold and clear priat , t 
name of each candidate in English , Manipuri and or any other vernacular Image 
ua zer as may be dooided by the Chairman , the name of the symbol with which 
his ballot box is marked and the symbol itself . 
After Rule 35 of the said rules, add the following rules as Rule 36A , namely 
35. In case of voting by ballot boxuy, the procedure for voting shall be us follows : 

(i) The voter on receiving the ballot paper, shall show the official mark 
thereon to the Polling Officer and forth with proceed into the polling on Innur 
compartment whore he shall put his ballot paper or papers into the ballot boks 
of the candidate or candidates for whom ho dosires to vote . Every voter shall 
vote without undue delay and shall quit the polling station as 4000 as he he 
put bis ballot paper into the bullot box . 

(ü ) If the voter , owing to illiter_cy or infirmity is unable to read the symbol 
on a ballot box the Polling Officer shall put the ballot paper into the ballot 
box according to the direction of the voter. 
After Form B , insert the following as Form BB . 


Form BB . 
Rule FA . 19 ( 14 ) 
DECLARATION . 


I do declare that I have selectud 
the by inbol for my election . 


Signature of Candidato 
$ . At the end of the formas to those rules, add the fullowing Sabedulos, namelya 


1. Boat. 
8. Cart . 
8. Hut. 
4. Hurricano laup . 
5. Palki. 
6. Ploagh . 
7. Saulos , 


Schedule 
LIST OF SYMBOLS. 
Rule 19 ( 1A ) 

8. Umbrella . 
9. Fishing Rod . 
10 , Euman band . 
11. Bioyola . 
-19 . Kodali . 
18. Axe . 


5 


T. Kipgoa , 
Seoretary to the Govt. of Maput. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 8 , 1966 . 


PART 1 


NOTIFICATION . 

Iunphal, the 24th November , 1963 . 
No. Jits 54 C ). The following Centri Adfe me pallixbed in the Cinzette of India Extraordi 
nary Part II Scotion I datud 18. 10. 53 are repnblished in the Manipur Gazette for general 
information . 

A. K Ray , 
Chief Si cretary to the Giovt . of Manipur. 


THE NEGOTIABLE INSTRUMENTS ( AMENDMENT ) 

ACT , 1965 
( 37 of 1936 ) 


А СТ. 


further to amend the Negotiable Instruments Act , 1881. 
Bu it enacted by Parlia incat in the Sixth Yoar of the Republic of India * 
u follows : 
1. «( ?). This Act inay loc callod tbe Negotiable Instruments ( Amendment ) short title 

and cam . 
Aot , 1953, 

mencement. 
( 2 ) It shall cou.c into force on auch date as the Central Government 
may , by notification in the Official Gazette , appoint. 

2. In fection 3 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 ( hereinafter Amendment 
roferred to as the principal Act ), for the definition of the word " banker" , Act XXVI 

of LIOL . 
the following definition shall be substitutod , namely : 

“ Bankur includes any person acting R a banker and any post offio 
paviago bank " . 
3. In seation 20 of the principal Act, in the Explanation , the worlds Amendment 

of section 
New Year s day , Christmas day : if ither of such days falls on a Sun.lay , 

XXVI of 
the next following Malay : Good Friday; " shall bo omitiel. 

100L . 


Act 


THE APTROPRIATION (No. 3) ACT, 1955 . 

( 38 OF 1955 ) 


АСТ . 


Bhart title . 


to authorisu payment and appropriation of cortain further sume frum and 
put of the Consolidated Puurd of India for the marvice of the firuincial year 1955-56 . 

Bu it reacted loy Parliament is the Sixth Year of the Republic of 
India as follows 3 
1. This Act may ho called the Appropriation ( Vo . 3 ) Act , 1955 . 

Ipane o R 
2. from and out of the Consolidated Find of India there maġ be paid 

1,89,84,000 
and applied same ait exceeding those specified in colama 8 of the Suhedule out of the 
amounting in the aggregate to the sum of ong crore sisty -nine lakhs and ted Punde se 
erighty -four thousand rupees towards detraying the everal charges which will India the 

you 1956 
Ho fa gourd of payment during the financial yoår 11155-56, in rexpect of 
toiletben martioso specified in calaran % of the Schedule. 
3. The suns Anthorized to be paid god * pplied from and out of the 

Appropria 
Doarqlidated Hand of India by thio Ast shell - bu . appropriate for the ser 
vietu anda parpore expirenood in the Bobedulo in relation to the said ywer. 


slona . 


were 


MANIPOR GAZETTE, FEBRUAR 


THE SCHEDULE 
( Sar notione ! and 3 ) 


2 


Semau pe 


No. 


Sortiga and purpoten 


Vorbed by Pulla Ohanged to the 

Consolidated 

and 


Bs. 


Ra. 


28 Datordal Ataire 


20,00,000 


. 


. 1,60,000 

8,87,000 


1.80.000 
3,81,000 


R 


8,62,000 


24 | Mincellaneous Exponditare under the Minis 

try of External Affairs. 
23. Ministry of Finance 
6 Miscellanedus Departments and Expenditure 

ouder the Miuintay vſ lIvase Affairs 
107 Capital Outlay of the Ministry of Com . 

merce and Industry 
115 Capital Qutlay on Currency 
119 Other Capital Outlay of the Ministry of 

Finadoo 
138 Other Capital Outlay of the Ministry of 

Works, Housing and Supply 


4,50,000 


4,50.000 
1,82,68,000 


1 32,68,000 


1,000 


1,000 


1,000 


1,000 


Toral 


1,03,34,000 


4,50,000 


1,89,84,000 


THE SPIRITUOUS PREPARATIONS (INTER-STATE TRADE- AND 

COMMERCE ) CONTROL ACT, 1958 

(89 of 1955 ) 


AN 
ACT 


Sbert Miley 
actent and 
dowmenco 


to make provision for the imposition in the public interest of cerlain restrictions on 

inter- State trade and commerce in spirituvus medioinal and tither preparatiewe 
and to proride for mattori connected therparith , 
Bx it enacted by Parliament in the Sixth Year of the Ropublic of India, 
followed 

1. ( 1 ) Thin Aol may be called the Spiritacus Properations (Infør- state 
Trade and Commerce ) Control Act , 1955 , 

( 2) It oxtends to the whole of India , 

( 3) It shall gume into force on suoh date as the Central Gurerament 
muy, by totidoption in the Oficial Gazette , appoint . 
2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise reqa ires, 

(a ) alcohol madaan ethyl alooksl of 499 strength and purity deving 
the chaqical composition 0,1,01 ; 

( 19 presoribwel meluan prenoribed by mules made under this resto 

fo ) prohibition estos means any whioh the Central Govern hale get 
many , by nobcation for tlak Official Gazetten , spesify n being 
which are in many part post which the consumption of mankinthe Higmor #my 
patronany prohibited by 

uy superiore prenda 


Depoitles. 


3 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARYO, LOŠE. 


or 


Opatotoo na 


(4) apy medicina ). preparation dustaining alohol, wether self 
generated or otherwise ; 

( is) any mixtare ox opraponnant of wind with medicinal substances , 
whethor the wine is fortified with spirit or not ; or 

(iii) any other rabatanos notified rader stotion 4 to be a gpirituous 
preparation . 
8. (1) No porqon shall , in the course of inter -stato trade and commerov, - Control 

fal impart into * prubibition State any spirituoas preparation ; or 

(b ) export from any state or transport from one place to evrother or splittuamme 
: ll any spirituous preparation for the purpose of the importation into a 

preparation . 
prohibition State ; 
huyo in scoordance with rules made under sabreotion (? ) and with the con 
ditions of any licence for that purpuse which he may be required to obtmin 
under thome rules , 

(2 ) The Central Govern mont may , by notification in the Official Gazette , 
make rulur regulating much import , Arport, transport or sale , and ench rules 
may preporibe the form and conditions of licences therefor, the authorities 
by which runh licences may be greated and the fres that may be charged 
with rerpect thereto, and any other matter required to render uffcolive the 
control over auch import , export, transport or sale , 

(3 ) Save in so far as may bo expressly provided in the rules male onder 
sub-rection " (? ), nothing in this realiun shall apply to spirituous preparations 
which are the property of the Government. 

4. If the Central Government is satisfied , after making such inquiry in this Other prar 
hehelf as it may think fit and after taking into acquunt nuok reprosentations parations 
** Topy be made in the matter, that contrul of inter-State trado and commerce alcohol a 
in unig preparation containing alooh ıl other than a proparation referred to 

au spirituous 
in sub -olaume (i) or sub-clause ( ii) of clau4e (il) of section 2 is necesary in preparation 
the public interest , it may , hy nutification in the Official Gazette, deolare ench 
preparation to be a spiritpons preparation within thr moaning of this Act wud 
thereupon the provisions of this Act shall apply thereto . 
5. If any person contravenor any of the provisions of this Act or of Penalties 
rules maile thereundur, or the terms and conditions of 

any lioenue 

granted 
under such ruler , he shall , for every such offence , be paninhable with impri. 
nonment for a term whiul may extend to one year, or with fino which may 
extend to une thousand iupees, or with both . 
6. In all trials for offence s under this Act or the rules made thereundor, Procedure 

to be follow 
the niagistrate shall follow the procedure prescribed in the ( nde of Oriminal 
V of 1899. 

Procedure, 1898 , for the trial of summary choos in which an appeal lies . 

r . Notwit batanding anytbing contained in the Code of Criminal Procodoro, Offence 
V af 1808. 1898 , all offences under this Aslanl the rulos made thureun ler shall bu ougnisable . under the 

Aor wignis 


be notiled 


any 


od by manythem 


ble 


8 


(1 ) Any oficer of the department of prohibition , exoise, polioe , reveone Pover tõotor 
or public health authorised iu this bohalf by the State Government, by gene- ter. wmarche 
ral or special order, who has respons to believe from personal knowledge without 
or from information given by any person and taken dowa in writing that warrant anul 
may Apirituous preparation in rempoot of whiol an ofendo punishable andere onderson 
motion has been committed is kept or connealed in any house , building 
of dolored space , or is being transported in any vehiclo , vensel or sitcraft 
the any plqou or is in transio may 

matør at may time by day or by night into may not hoan , bailding 
or walowed space, or vehicle , perkel or uiroratt ; 

( b) in ons al minista pod , bronk opon may door und tamno in many other. 
otomelo to moh @ory 1 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 8 , 1036 


Votation 


dicers oxer 


updor 
he Lot 


hidt 
(c ) noize such preparation and any document or other artiole 
bo bar rensou to believe mey furnish evidence of the complexion of an 
oflonde pilotalable under this Act or the rules made thereunder ;- and 

id ) detail and scach any person whom he ha # rangun to Woliere 
to be guilty of an offencu punishable under this Aot or the ralen mande, 
therrunder, and if Auch purson has ally spirituous preparation in his 
possession and such possessiou appous to him to be anlawfnl, atrest 
him . 

( 2 ) Where an wirer takur down any information in writing ouder muito 
sootiva (1 ), he shall forthwith good a copy thereof to his immodiace wheial 
sapoliur . 

( 9) The State Government may empower any officer of the prohibition 
or axoire departmout to investigate offences under this Act and the rulos made 
thorfuader 

(4 ) AR officer empowered under anb_section (3) shall, in the outdaot of Vo* 1994 . 
such juvestigation , exercise the powers conferred by the Code of Criminal 
Procedure , 1898 , upuu wa uliour in dhaigu uf » police statiou for the investigation 
of coguinalle offencer , 

9. ( 1) Any officor exerriving powers under this Act or under the rulos made 
March , sola 
Due , C , by thereunder whua 
giving pow . 

(a ) without reasonable ground for believing that it is necessary so 
to do , searches op canaes to be searched any house , building or encluded 
place or any vebiole , vergel or Aircraft , 

( 1 ) vexatiously or unnecessarily seizus eny spirituoas preparation or 
suy duoumeut or uther article ; 

(c ) Veratiously or unnecessarily dletaine, staches or arresto any person ; or 

(a) commite , na mnoh officer, any other act to the injury of any person 
without having reason to believe that such act in required for the execution 

of his duty ; 
shell fur etcy ruch udence le panisluble with fine which may extend to two 
thousand ropees, 

(2) Any person wilfully and innliciously giving fala information and 
BO causing an arrost or a warch to be ma le under this Act sliall be punisbablo 
with tino which may extend to two thouraud rupees, or with inapriøunmsat 
for * torin which may extend to one year, or with buth . 

10. (1) If the person committing an offunde unler section 5 is a compsay , 
Odense by every person who , at the time the contravention was committed , wau in obarge 
panies. 

of, and w » . responsible to, the company for the conduot of the business of 
the company , he well as the company , shall be deemed to be guilty of the 
contravention and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished nocordingly . 

Provided that nothing contained in this sub section shall reader any such 
Porson liable to any punixhment provided in this Act if he proved that the 
offence was committed without his knowledge or that be exereined alt due 
diligenoo to prevent the commission of syol of onvo . 

(2 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in anbestion ( !), where an offence 
• vodor this Act bas beon committed by a company and it la pruted that 
the offence has been committed with the Quand of Ovapivados of, or in 
attributable to any negleet op the part of, muy director, manager , begretary 
or other officer of the company , mwok director , tananger , nooretary or abber 
obtiner shall also be deemed to be gailty of that vitendo shall be liable to 
be provended against and punished accordingly . 
Explanation For the parposes of this neation , 

7.Topmpany " w my body corporate , aud inclados y firma og obhet 
Maroviation of individuale , and 

) " dircotør " ln wolation to a firm maana , * partner to the flagrante 


MANIPUB GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 8 , 1956. 


from pos 605 


preparations 


11. Ia trials under thin Act, it may be presumed unless and antil the produmption 
contrary im proved , that the moured has committed an offence ander this Act ston ot 
or the roløk . made thereundor in rempoot, of any - spirituous preparations for the spirituous 
prosessica of which ke fails to acconul retiufactorily. 
12. The Central Government pay , by notification in the Olicial Gazette, of powers 

Deleration 
dirpot that the power to malo rules ander section & shall, subject to such 
conditions, if any , as may be specified in the notification , he exercisable also 
by . State Government. 

13. The Central Government may , by notifiantion in the Official Gazette , 
and subject to Adob conditions as it may think fit to imposé, . axempt any 
epirirnous preparation from al or any of the provisions of this Act on the 
ground that the spirituons preparation is ordinarily required for medicinal, 
sojentific , industrial or such like parposes . 

Oficers 
14. All officers empowered to exercise any puworn or to perform any duties 
ALVof 1860 under this Aot shall be deemed to be publis servants within the meaning this Act to 

be pablo 
of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code . 


Power to 
& xonapt . 


noting under 


kervante 


15. No suit , proxecution or other legal procooling shall lie against any Protection 
officer or person empowered to exorcine powers or to purforna duties un lor taken in 
this Aot for anythiog in god faith done or intended to be done und or this good faith . 
Act or the ruler mmile thereunder. 
18. Nothing in this Act or in the rules male thereu a ler shall effort Saving of 

loon and 
the validity of any Proviarial Aot or a State not for the time being in special leasen 
foroe , or of Ady rule, regalation or order mado tboreander, which impones 
way restriotion not impi sed by or uader this Act , or impones & restriction 
greater in degree than a corresponding rustriotion imposed by or under this 
Act on the traffiu iu any spirítuous preparations within the territories of 
the State . 


PART IV 
TENDER NOTICE 

Iniphal, the 30th January , 1956 . 
Sualod tmnders addressed to the undersigne ), are invited for supply of the follow 
ing office furnitures for use of B. C. G. Depdt. of Medical Office , Manipur, and 
will be received by the undersgined upto 12 a . m . of the 13th February, 1956 and 
the same will be opened on the suine date at i p. m . in the presenos of all ton 
dorers present. Successful tenderer will have to deposit & caution money of Rs. 25% 
which will be refund.d on completion of thy supply . Delivery of the artiolds will 
have to be made withia 2.3 duys from the date of acceptance of the tender, and 
the cost of transport of the articles from the place of workshop to Medical Office , 
Imphal will be borne by the tenderer . The undersigned dues ast biad himself to 
400opt the lowest or any tender. 
Partioular 

Size . 
1 . 1 (one ) Almirab of 480nud 

6 } 4x1 10 " 
Uningthou (having 6 shelves ). 
2. 1 (one ) Oftioe lable with a 

2f x3 x4 
drawer of seasoned Uningtbuu . 
2 (two) Cunu-& rated Chuirs with arms, 

Ordinary size . 
% (tvo) Woodeu File Boxes with odvera. 1 xl xs . 
8 . 1 (one , wooden Slool. 

Ordinary Size . 


N. B. Roy , 
ufig. Chiet Medioul Ofiour , Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTEK FEBRUARY 


to 


TENDER NOTICE 

Impbel, the 18th Junpary, 1986 , 
Salon Denders, addressed to the underrig aed ; are invited for app 
og arttales for the use of the Govt, Tamphasane Girl High 
will be received by the undersigriod . upto 12 noon of 
Puring ottice honra and the same will be opened on the last 
of the tender s Lp. m . in the presence of all the , tendergra.hu 
doret will have to deposit Anm of Rs. 103 - (Rupees one hupdred ) 
money whlob will be refunded after the completion of the w 
mo binding to accept the lowest or any tender, 
Bull partiohlang may be bąd from tho office of the underaigard 
160 Desks of Uuingthou or Vehan . Sixe d alt 
Benches 

G rl z . 
1 Table with drawer of Uningthou . 

# I. Singh , 
Beadmaster, Temptarária Girls High School 

Imphal, 
Imphal, the 21st January, 1980. 
Soaled tenders for supply of the following uniforms are invited and will 16 
Hopeived by the undersigned upto 2 p... of 10-2-66. The suomessful Sønderer shall 
have to deposit sum of Rs. 407 ip cash as Security Deposit for due supply 
wilok will be refundad on satiafactory oumpletion of the supply Tb9 artioles will 
have to be delivered to the office within thirty days from the 

Hookptance 
of the tender , Rates should be quoted Fec each ipoludiog all obargne , 

obargne , le 
other incidental obargos along with the samples of the materials , 

Uniforme ,will be dotton lined and pookets will be provided . 
In all cases of dispute the decision of the Electrical Engineer jů be Opal 
Name of" dresses 

Quantity Rate Tate 
Khaki Cont. 

haki lang pant 
Haversack of Ehaki olath 
Ripree sloth (wkite tolmol 
46.7 * " Yards each ) 

band fubita melan 
8 yards . pach 

B. M. Sharosa , 

Electrical Engineer, Manipur 
Inapbal, the soth Jannary 1966 
Soplad tendera me invited for the supply of one pair of 
Farm under the Industries Department Mus Pander 

gned app 
. Yn of 16.8.18 und the 
on the sange date, The following 


1 


Nos. 


., 


- 


. 


sato 


the bublado 
portionlará 

bound 


DOTONTIN 


org 


FY ? 12 % 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , PEBRUARY 1966. 


11 


YA 


NOTICE 

Trophat, the 27th January , 1956 
Applications stating nationality , go, home district , qualifioations and previous 

ence and addressed to the Principal af igritid for the post of a leptures to 
Botanga i the D. Á . College, Imphal in bohlo suf **. 176-175-16-360-20-954 . plus 0. Ai 

Higher iuitial start may be considered for stooptionally qualified candidates. 
A may be sanctioned for those who come to join doties from outs de Argamo 
Gradidates should be ready to appear for interview at their own expense, and in 
one of selepcion shall be ready to join immediately The last date of appliention 
zboaipt in the 18th February , 1986 . 
Qualificatious : 
Essential At least a second class M. A. or M. So in Botany praferably 

with special paper vither in Myology: mid Plant Pathology 

or Cytogenetios. 
Desirable : - Teaching experience of at least 3 years in a degree oollege . 
Age 

Below 35 years . 
On Nelection a candidate should furnish his antecedents attested by at least os 
gusotted officers not below the rank of a Depaty Magistrate. 


--- 


. 


-- 


1 


N. B. Sinha, 

Pringland, 
D. M. College , Imphal. 


Shrin 


, 


Imphal, this s0th Javnary : 1980 
No. 1S/ 3 -X91/52.- Applications stating age, educational qualifiontions previmus ex 
rience and number of wives, if married, are invited , fir the folliwing posts of the 
Moiraig Government High School to reach the underaigupd on or before the 20th 
February 1996 . 
1. Three fonts . of graduate teachers in the pale of pay of Rg 100-2507 

with noual Dearnets Allowance . 
The post will be temporary in the fist instance . Preference will be given to 

B. Bo for one of the posts . Candidates are required to attend the office of the 
undersiguod fit interviow 00 : the 21st of February , 1968 . 


I 


K. Gourá Singh , 
lospeator of Sobocis , Stanipur , 


. 


--- 


IN 


wie 


Imphal 4th February , 1868 . 
22 It is bem - by to potify for general informaatign that an 49a, mya 
w And B. Legg ( abant Paris Propagod.tq . de resgrup tropa 
Grade Ground lying in the Impal Wiqat Tahsil on the 

an the band 
pour mon into agrlegltural and 
herbalisations to 

apoor 

prilor si obiad 
wadaugned eups the best 
obra 1938 . 


MANIPÖR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY , 104 , 


PROGRAMME FOR PAYMENT OF A. R. M. COMPENSATION MONEY FOR THE 

MONTH OF FEBRUARY , 1986. , 


1 


89 


8.No. Date of payment Naino of village No. of payeon . Amoume 
0 8 

6 
1 . 17.2.88 ( Fri) Kalhang Khulen & Quirol 78 

10,868 
2 . 17.2.86 ( Pri ) Luobai Khunou 

80 

385 
3 . 18.2.56 (Sat ) Sharbung 

36 

3,767 
20.2.56 (Mon ) Pui 

6,743 
Marao 

26 

943 
6 . Loutoi 

2 

100 
7 . 21.2.56 (Tue ) Chingahou ( East & South ) 61 

12,810 
8 . Mahn 

26 

7,840 
9 . Tora Tangkhul & Kuki 

1,608 
10 . 22.2.56 (Wed ) Sangsbuk Khulen & Kounou 

86,348 
11 . Luncha 

1,021 
18 . 29.8.66 ( Thur ) Leisang Kuki 

1,481 
13 . Mawai 

59 

1,590 
14 . 24.2.56 ( Fri ) Phunchong 

38 

1,118 
15 . Choro 

20 

4,967 
16 . Khutuk . 

89 

1,572 


911,80VY 


PROGRAMME FOR PAYMENT OF A. R. M. COMPENSATION MONEY FOR THE 

MONTH OF MARCH , 1986 . 


2 


6 


49 


1 . 1.8.56 ( Thur ) Ukhrul Awungshi 

103 

16,479 
2.8.56 (Fri) May - ingo 

60 

16,813 
Kasom 

76 

16,251 
8.3.56 (Sat) Kbangkhoi 

11 

1,401 
6 . 5.3.56 (Mon ) Ukhrul Phungyo 

201 

54 905 
6,6.56 ( Tue) Sapa Keithon 

85 

9,813 
7 . Maokot 

57 

1,534 
7.8.16 (Wed ) Chassad 

21 

663 
9 . Hundung Goda 

88 

9,220 
10 . Nungabang 

22.884 

1,48,9687 
Basiruddin Akmed , 

Sub - Divisional Officer , Ukhrel . 
Notico No. 58 / Ind, III /86 . 

Imphal, the 6th February, 1966. - 
Soaled tonders for articles of furniture will be received by the undersigned by the 

P. M. of the 2 th February , 1956 and opened at the time to the poemnom 
the tonderers . Thore will be no biading to accept the lowest of any kendar 
asign reason thereof. Haccounfal tenderans will have to deposit caution money 
8 % of the total cost. Details may be und from the offion of the undermigned duten 
attipe boura , inoluding complete list of tarnitum required . 

U. MS 
Director of Laduate 


i 


32 


*) . 


> 


Bohout 
thominik Sobaal : formado 

Marehe 1956 , 

ndidi 
under 
be bota 

10. be eligible 
tik Sohod 

passantbod should nonoh the State Goverannanda 
paliompito paranto guardians ordinarily ronida big " thot 
Candidatos booking Admissiós to the School should not 

brat must not be attained the age of 18 janken 
1000 " limits with not be relatio 
Artipulara Vogurding the course of training , spooinaan guestion paper , the 
pipliention forms can be obtained from the Saprotury ", to the State Govern 
Home Department of the Principal; Sainik School, Dabra Dün . 

By order to 

T. Kipeen , 

Boometimering to the Govt. ot Magipur 
Imphal, the 8th February , 1950 . 
Isaque of Passport 

Caloutto Region 
The Regional Passport Otoo, Ouloutti Ragion Lopated at No. 4 , Beabourne Boud 

it take over the reponsibility for immužang Indian International Paimpo 

Government of Manipur with offect from Wednesday , the 16th Robe 
Table Indo- Pak Passports will continue to be issued by the Goveramoat of Manipu 

An applicant for a Puasport frowe Manipur should complete the premortbed for 
in duplicate and submit together with three copies of photograph to his/her Distulot 
Mügistrate from whom wluo application forms oan be had . The applioation throuk 

soopmapantisd by sithor : 0 ). bortificate from the appropriate Havenyo Aathario 
(not below the rank of .. Tehsildar) giving the walue of any immovable respons 
in the pointensing of the applionat or fi ) moordfonte , from bank giving the period 
during while the applioant has been their client and amount. ut his credit i thin 

Pptlaatio or fit if tha applicant a fixed income only , oprtiome 
Hold of Department, Fira sto giving his monthly income. I an apple 
pripdos none of those partiñcation bio bionidiubmit 

fidanoint guaranto 
ruan in the preporibed tota . 

Whioh : is B. 10 /- for an Inding International" 
ndo Gulon : Pumpor should 

hould the bare omitted by nonay Order 
tagja Handy Onde coupoa the nthath 

the mountai 


1 


ce 


i " 


Hition 


batt 


0 : 0 


ANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARYA, 6 Jose 


RAN 


NOTIOENo . 33/1936. 

Imphat, the oth February 1956 
Sected tnaam are invites tor - upply ok 8500 ( thres thrvasna 
la quality paddy for ihe consumption of prisoners for the 

daraat wooompanied by obanla u for deposit of Rain 
Mer P - Deposit and Aamice , civil Deposit Reverine Depositi, 

nouelved the tendern with notina ples upto I p . m .. or 16.7.56 . Bi bom 
Modian fat the lowest or any tender , 

T.C. Tanth 
Supdt., Manipur Siated 

Imphal, Manipur 
NOTICE No. 1 of 1968. 

Imphal, the 8th February , 1956. 
It f berebi totified for geberal information that underviosable sint 
clothing , motor parts and other misollandous artiol. s will be sold betona 

Office of Manipur Rifles at : 11 a.p. on the 15th February . 
The succesful bidders shall have to pay the full amount in guiah , on 

sale and in case of failure the stores will be resold at the risk of 
bidders . 

Eull particulinsud . list of articles for sale may be bad from the Bon : of 
modersigned during office hours . 

R.N. Singh , 

Commandant, Yonipur Ride 
NOTICE No. Röv /2,86 /D.C . 

।।७२२ 
PRTimittai Rav./i/58/D.C. निक 

समानामा पनियामा बाममा र 
नाबाबमा 

गि परमपनि वाशनि शिला 
बाबिमाना मनासारमा पौवा गाया बडय भारवर बाबा बादर 
पानी में पटना । वा पनिमा 

बधिमा बजाना शनि 01 01.७ कारमा बनाना . 
यूमिनिरनि । कि 


. 


नमावि 


A 


मान, २०७२ 

पनि २०२० 

नवशा पारि बाब विधान योग 
बामालाकि पनि गरे पनि मिनाय ना . नि । 

अपवनि ! : नवरापि , वरान 

नवरानि , पशन बोराविनाम .. 
वापरावनि । निनाव निविपनिमा बरामविना निरपिका 
जान पामारपनि नापी शेत्रमा 

एना आ 


कि 


पि 


Fr 


i , 
কাচেরলৌগনি । চেী লিলি ৰােভা রাঙা পা ( প ) নি । 
XANDPUR GAZETTE PÉBRUARY 8 , 1936 . 

in 
নােটিশ । 

Imphal, the ard February , 1986 . 
Cl : - এ । পুল শংকরী মাছুদি ষ্টেট ফুজি ফিল ইংশােক ১৯৫৬ ফেরারী , খাগ 

. , নি দাদা খলিল 
# অহন ওইগালবনি আর বাড়া আমদা 

( অতি খায় ) 
স , দিন 

সীনি এম সারী চে মশা- উ : লোশী খেপা চেলি 
তেঅভিযালেস ) খুলল গাজৰ য়াৰ স্বাক্ষী ঋৰদ্ৰৰণা না মাওলা সহী ভোদা পলিগলি 
লিগ চেল মুনা ( নেশল অফিসসময়ে । কে মিশে যায় । কেউ খেলা 
কােৰিগৰনি । কলা মীনা সেশল তা : চে গুলিদি 

চে । পৰিয়াদি চে সৌনেই : ( বিতে 


li 


ন 


ময়োনি কখেল".কৈৰেলগী ওইনা মুখাদা নিৰ। গ মশগ মধু , আয় 
কোটি খুলশিংদা লৈবা লেশিংগী অমুক পুঃ ১ { যাপন ) গীচে লো যৌগলি । লো 
বিবি খাশিংগী মণী অখী হো পৰিয়ক অধী দায়ী সিনা পুরোই । 

হেনা, 

ম 
চে গুগল মহিলা ষ্টেট ঐহি আকিব কোৱেংগী বা অকোন অহান, নাইন লেগু 


নি । 


গলৰা না দিকনা মাগী মাগী ভাজি খােক নিয়ে 
সে মৌলৰিয়নি। অরুক পু ( মাগ ) গী অতুল পুৰিৱৰগা দে নৌনেই । পুৰিলিব। 

চেও লো ফাও গাড়ীপা খৰীগৰনি । লৈপাল না খা , আমাের 
এগ লেশমাইল অগো নােটশ অম অমুক দেয়নি । 


: 


। 


। 


৫ 


যদি 


: 


এ -৫৬ 


০ 


-- 


.. 


ܪܕ܀ 


7 


, 


-৫৬ 


• ০ , 


বাজার মমি 
অমলে , হৈশখো , পাঠ 
পুণ্ড, পা , পালাই 
ইপোক , কোং , লি : 
বংশে , অ , আইরিপাক 
নিলে, নিশাে , খোল 

ইনিং, হৈরো , কােন 
ককট , পলেন, ংৈশেইখো 
হিয়াং , লোই, ময়াংকাল 
শাহী , খাই, রাখে 
কী খুলে ফেলে 

শৈলে, ওই 
বি , নিখো কােং 


-৫৬ 


1 


••• 


। 


!! 


R 


¥ 


R 


E 


. 


Manipur 


Gazette 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 57 


Imphal, Wodnesday , February 18 , 1986 . 


Pus 


CONTENTS 

Page 
*** I.- Appointments , Pontiago, Trasfers, Power , 

Lear and other personal potjesu, 
Part 1L - Renolations , Regulations, Orders, Notin . 
cution , Rules etc. 

1 to 9 


1 


Part III.Ordon , Notifications , Rules 

the Government of India, . 
Part IV . - Adrertinonants and Notions o . 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR 


Order by the Clint Commissionmt . 

Imphal, the 6th February , 1986 . 
No. J/ 27 /15 -- The Chief Commissioner is pleased to appoint Shri Y. Jyotindra 
Singb , B. A. LL. B as whole time Assistant Government Advocats and Provocutor 

pay of Rs. 200/- por month plug the usual dearpons allowance for puriod 
of one year with effoot from tho date of his joining duty . 


Imphal, the 7th February , 1961 , 
No. Estt /1 /55 ( 4 )-17. - In rintinuation of this Administration Order No. Estt /1 /66 
( 4) -8 dated 18-1-1956 and subsequent corrigenda issued under Nos. Eatt /1 /66 ( 4) -10 
und Estt /1 /65 ( 4 )-11 dated 19-1-1966 and 21-1-1986 re4pectively , the Chief Commissioner 
is plonged to confirm the sanction of ourned lonvo for 60 days granted to Sbri 0 . 
Kathipri , Amistant Secretary ( Tribal Welfuro ) to the Govt, of Manipur and Eita 
Arsistant Commissioner and Assistant Secretary (Claims) . 

2. The acting arrangement already made will remain 10 it is . 


T. Kipger , 
Secretary to the Govt. af Manipar. 


PART # 


Imphal, the 18th February , 1956 . 
No. CA / 44 /86. In continuation of his order of oven pomber dated 10-11-1968 , 
the Chief Cumminsioner is plea - ed to accord sanction to the extension of the post 
of the additional sosistant Sooretary ( Finance) for another 8 months from 10-2-1966 
to 9-8-1956 . 

The expenditure for the period frora 10-2-1966 to 29-2–1956 will be met from 
the budget sativanten of the Taxes and Duties for the current year and that for 
tihe sepatulog period will be met from the budget estimates of the Team and Datlen . 
for the your 1986,57 . 

By order eten, 

T. Kipgon . 
Sooretary to the Govt . of Maniptar. 


FEBRUARY 


NOTICE 

Imphs , the sth February, 1966 , 
Applioations stating nationality , home district , age, qualifications 
hävited to to conch the Pfincipia big BV.2.1986 for ". 

Bour 

to 
brator Pigation for the D , M College, Inopbal in reale of 

100 % pław Di A. disa fusibile aconrding to : ralen , Oandidat 
it to the number of wire üring . Candidates shonld be toudy to app 
triow i Wety, at their own experB .: Candidates it selected for аррон 
should be ready to join immediately and they should furnish their 
tested by lemat two gasotted officers not below the rak of Depaty 

Qualification Legontinl- At least & B. So, with Physion as one 
in B. do Praterapce will be given Honours graduato in Physics 
Demirable- an experienon of eithor : tongbiag of Demonstrition work in 

in Phiy 
Toast one year. Age below " 80 years . 
Preference will be given to cmndidaton knowing one or more looul langang 

N. B. Sipba ; 

Principal, D. M. College, Imphil 
NOTICE No. 1 , 

Imphal, the 9th February , 1966 . 
Bealed tenders are invited " for the supply of timber ( Upingthon ) of about 109 
bio tt, to the Johnstone High School, Imphal and swing about 5000 squares 
and will be received by the undersigned up to 12 A. M. of the 18th February , 
The nigo of the timbere will be of not less than 20 CFT. each . 


OT 


.. 


Kalachand Bbastri, 
Hondmaster , Johnstone High School 


SI No. 


Imphal, the 11th February , 1956 
PAYMÈNT PROGRAMME OF AIR FIELD COMPENSATION OF 

BISENPUR AIR FIELD , 
Name of Air Field . 

No. of onson . 

Date of partner 
Bishen pur Air- Field . 

28 

20. 8. 66. 
W. Gourmolendra Mingle 

8. D. 0. (Olams) . 


1 


. 


Imapbal.the 13th February, 1966 , 
PAYMENT PROGRAMME OF A.R.M. COMPENSATION FOR MAO-MARAY ARKA. 
Place of Name of 

Total Nos. Senu Now , us Date of monot Total 
payant . village . of p’yeed in paynes as per 

paruoat 

#taunt 
nach Village Babot anad liati 

village 
Nos dia 50 
DO . Lai Nosto 100 

701 
Oto 

No. 105 to 

66,7756 
NO to : 58 

88.8160 
Mathem 161 

No : to 1072 
24.86 9.488 
Bagai 

108 to 161, 96, 9:38 


1791 


ofotatsi 


DROX 


BEVAD 


NOTICE 
apal tho Srd . February, 1963 
Quotation are hardly invited for applyint thao : Wowing 
Om os the arta , Orafo & Cottage Industria . Lisaing -Qam Pro 

will be reggivet by the undermigon upto the 
2 ) Partloulats may had trom the Ombop of the above 


1966 


1 


nation of ortaolon. 


Qty . Required . Ubit ofculanlar 

tion : 


per cft. 


Croup 1. Tenk pood fremsqued ) 
Phank a Tý 19 x 1 . 

19 X 17.x 11 " : 

12 x 9 " x 
Timber of 2 * R *XB " 

19 x 5 " 3 
18 


10 : 
10 . 


. 


SENSUES 


... 


12 


***** 

*** 


800 oft 


@ RA 


Group B. Uningthon timbera . 
12 in length , i to " in brendth . 
And not dode than I in thiokuens 
and having no kinot hand . 
Group C. Uchan bännas of 
14" * 8 * x 20 


J1 beams 


per benim 


@ .. 


1 


N. B. Rates should be quoted both in words & figures , 


1 


K. L. Singh, 
Project Executive Officer 


1 


41 


WIL 


1 


16 


Iniphal; the sth February, 1966. , . 
TOUR PROGRAMME FOR MOBILE DISPENSARY (WEST ) FOR TEE 

MONTH OF FEBRUARY , 1956 . 

.. (CHURACHANDPUR AREA ). 
18-2-88 

Imphal 

Khosabang. 
14-9-56 

Khonabupg Kangwai . 
16 : 2-56 

Hulta 
16 - % -08 . 

Kangwai Saidan . 
17-4-36 

Saidan 

Molwaiphei. 
3 + 2-60 

Molwiiphei Saikot . 
16 , 

Halt. 
Seikot 

Molbom . 
Molbam 

Ngurto. 
Neurbo 

Beipum 
Baiguma 

Lingsiphai 
Lingwiphat 

ghathai. 
Bankai, 


Hengkal 


Ingpha 


BM : ngkas 
Oity : Oliet Medical Oma 


ipa 


دری 


MANIPOR GAZETTE,-FEBRUARY 18 , 1984. 


NOTICE 

Imphal, the 12th Febrnary, 1956 , 
It is notified for the information of all the manual lanseen of twee 
tant in accordance with condition 3 of the annual lause it is not take into a bot 
the Government to renow their annualles any longe . Acontdiagły the 

mm 
lessen skall be terminuted on the 18th F.bruary 1986 - tha Shri Punohumi Day . 
Ipane - bolders will therefore be entitled to enter on the land thereafter.. 

The Government propose to titiliga the lan1 for certain orential publio puepuka 
and any person unauthorisedly entering on the lan ) is liabl ; to be dealt with 
tTerpasgor . 

V. 8 Sundaran , 
Deputy Commissioner, Manipur . 


H 


Imphal, the 7th February , 1953 
No. 9/ F /65-66 . It is hereby notified for general information that puraa wat tan 
Section 59 of the ladian partnership Act IX of 1932 Canohipur Art , Craits and 
Leather Works bus boon incorporated in my whoc and that it is a partnership Firm 
mad pum hered as 9 of 1957-611, dated the 6th February of the year one thousand . 
mine hundred and Afty six Anno Domini. 


Imphal, the 10th February , 1961 , 
No 10 / F /55-56. It is hereby notified for general information that pui surnt to 
Section 59 of the Indian Partnership Act, IX of 1982 Canchipur Oil Industry Works 
has been incorporated in my office and that it is a Partnership Firm and qumbered 
** 10 of 1965-54 , dated the 10tli Webruary of the year one thousand nine hundred 
and fifty six Anno Domini. 


Imphal, the 10th February , 1956 . 
No. 11/ F /11 /56-56 . - It is hereby notified for general information that pursuant 
to bootion 59 of the Indian Partnership Act IX of 1932 M 8 Friends and up fentury 
ama beun inoorporated in my office and that it is a partnership Hiro and numbered 
* 11 of 1965-56 , dated the 10th February up thu year one thousand pine vandred 
and fifty six Anno Domini . 

U. M. Bingb , 
Registrar , Firm , Manipur . 


PRESS NOTE . 

Imphal, the 7th February , 1966 . 
No. C -EH /6 /56 -To ensure chose co -ordination betwvea the Central and Htate 
Sohomes of Scholarships to students belonging to the scheduled Oasten , Schaduled 
Irabes and other Brokward Clagres , it is notified for general infirmiti 19 
whore any studeut is awarded acho arships both by the Central and Stars Govern 
monts , he should take up the Central Scholarships only and tho State Ballantip 
awarded to him being treated m automatically cancelled . In case where the value 
of the Central Sobolarships are how ve found to be levou bna tkant of the Statens 
Boholarship , the question of making good the difference will be considered by the 
Atata ( ovoinmoot. This agtitipation is not intended to ronopod sammen 

har 
students have already rowed theme of the two scholarship Hoparding the 


1 


Gopendra Share 
Publiosty Offione 


MANIPUR .GLE 
, FEBRUARY 15 , 1956 . 


* 


। 


নােটিশ নং ৩৩ । 

২৯ ইং । 
একি মা হল একা গুন হরি। ময়টিজিম নােকা দু লীগা শরণবা গােটা 
ই হল। সে এগ শেললি এফ এসিলা গোযেটকী বু গং আই, এ , আর, ২৪৫৫ 
# ১৯৫৬ ইল ন ই কোণাচাও ইইদা গনৗকা কোৱেই যেতিনি লৌকন সেন গা গুলি চাল 

গলি । 

লাশ অকোই চলগ লি লেগ লিগা ফৌগাকাও ইথাই অসি দিলঅলি পাল পুলিশ 
a c লন পালাইবা শিং, উলটি জোলগ খোপা পেশি শ হেলী মাল এফ এশি । কবিৰ : 
শনি । মাগিপােৎ অনুপ কোৰা পাল অমং কোয়েল মলিদ মন কাইল গগ । ইতি । 


* 


আর, কে , বি , সি , সি 
কোনো অফিসার, মণিপুর । 


Notion under 

Or, 1, R 8 , C. P. 0 , 

Munsiff Court Title Suit No. IUST 
এ নহি আল মুক্ত মুলিক আদালতী হ ম ই নােটল এলিনা শ ওই সাংবিােক তো 
লৈই লৈ চৌকিদার, নথ, অমসুং লৈ খেলা এখণি হয় । 

১ নং নােংশে বাৰ সিহ সাংগৰো ৰে নৈৰা । 
২ ন এতো চৈলৈ সি না । 

৩ নং আনিকা গোয়নি নি সা । 
on bebak themselve and other members of Uripuk Tourangban Loikai 

VA. 
১ নং ৱাই তো কি 

২ নং এ এ মনসিংহ 4. . of Police ( Sadar Thana) গাং 
বিলিয়ন মাখােইপ ইলেপ মমাং (গোপালদেৰ লৈক মহৌশ । লৈর খাে জিগাইলেমংলা 
নীলা অ তোহনা লৈপসি থােগৎভুনা লৈকাইন্স লখী মাংস ভৌরে চায়না বাদিগণনা বিবিয়সী মজা 

শদা হক লৈ লৈকাইন্স মীশিংগ বহুৎশিন ওই লৌয়দুনা কে ভোদা কমি আলিখবা নৈৰণি 
এ ৫৬ ই ফাও মনুংদা নশা নানা কে যাওনি লৈ আগেহয় নলগা এমনিলা প 
না খাত এগৰনি । 

তাং কৰগী শব্দ না অমঙমা আপত্তি তোয়দ্ৰবদি হক লৈ লৈই সীণিংলা একে বলা 
ফোলা লৌবহু উক্ত নিপা গছন প্রতিনিধি ওইনা (কাদি) সৌন কেশ চলনি । 

0. Thambal Singh , 
Mupsiff, Manipur . 

এ0-60 


Turnhala - Printed mad pabliebed by ino Superiwwendunt Gorunment Press O. 346 /15-811. 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 68 - E - 17 


Imphal , Friday , February 17 , 1986 . 


* 


+ 


- 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIUR . 
Ordons by the Child Care 

ammissioner 
NOTIFICATION . 

Impbal, the 6th January , 1956 . 
No. J / 15 /54. - The undermentioned Central Aot published in the Gazette of India 
Extraordinary Part II Section I dated 21-12-55 18 republished for general information . 

A. K. Ray , 

Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 
THE WORKING JOURNALISTS ( CONDITIONS OF SERVICE ) 
AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ACT, 1955 . 

( 45 of 1958 ) 

AN 

ACT 
to regulaie certain conditions of service of working jurnalist and 

other persons employed in nerospaper establishments . 
Bw it enacted by Parliament in the Sixth Year of the Republic of India 
uk follows : 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY . 
1. ( 1 ) This Act may be called tbe Working Journalists (Conditions of 
Service ) and Miscellheous Provisions Act, 1955 . 

12 ) It extends to the whole of India oscept the State of Jammu and 
Kushmir. 
2. In this Ail, unless the context otherwise requiren , 

(a) " Boaril" means the Wage Board constituted under section 8 ; 
(b) " newspaper " means any printed periodioal work containing public 

news or comments on publio news and includes such other clark 
of printed poriodical work as may, from time to time , be potired 

in this behalf by the Central Government in the Official Gazetio ; 
(c ) new paper employeo " monns any working journalist , and in 

cludek , any other person employed to do any work in , or in 

relation to any newspaper establishment ; 
(it ) " nowepa per establishment" meanr an establishment under the 

control of any period or body of persons, whether incorporated or .. 
pot, for the produotion or publiontion of one or more newspapers 

or for oonduoting any news agency or sýndfonto ; 
(oy " proboribed ” memes proeoribed by rülen made under this Arts 
( 1) " working journalist" mewna to person whome principat avocátion 

" is that of a gaúrnalint , and wibo in employed as auch in , or in 
relation to , a my nowspaper blishment, and inolnilor ao editor , 

Jander -writer, nowe editut, webmeditor, feature.writer , empy tarber , 
roportør, correpondant, cartoonist, nows- photographer and proof 
rauder , but do not include spy such person whwa 


Short title 
and 


Dofinitions 


-- 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 17, 1956. 


. 


( 1 


respeot. of 
certairrorses 
of retronoh 
mont. 


(i) is employed mainly in minagerial or administrative 

orpacity , or 
( ii) being employed in a supervisory capacity, performs, either 

by the pature of the duties attached to his office or by ren . 
SOR of the powers Vested in , bim , funotions mainly of a 

managerial nature ; 
(8 ) all words and expressions used but not defiaod in this Act and 

defined in the Industrial Disputes Aet , 1947 , shall have thia XIV of 1917. 
moanings respectively assigned to them in that Act. 

ONAFTER II. 

WORKING JOURNALISTS . 
3. (1) The provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 , as in force 
Aot XIV.of 

XIV of 1947 
1947 to 

for the time being , shall , subject to the modification specified in sub-section 
Apply to (2 ), apply to , or in relation to , working journalists as they apply to , or in 
working 
jout : alists, relation to , workmen within the morning of that Aot . 

12 ) Section 25F of the aforesaid " Act, in its application to working journe 
liatr , shall be construed as if in clause (a ) thoroof, for the period of Dutico 
referred to theroin in relation to the retrenchment of a workman , the following 
perioita of notice in relatiou to the retrenchment of a working journalist bad 
been aubstituted , namely : - . 

( a) six months, in the case of an editor , and 

(b ) there months , in the case of any other working journalist. 
4. Whore at any timo hotween tbe 14th day of July , 1954 , and the Special pro 
i2th day of March, 19955, any working journalist had been retrenched, he visions in 
shall be ontitled tu l aceive from the employer 

( a ) wages for one month at the rate to which he was entitled 

immediately before his retrenchment, unless ho bad been given 

one mouli s uutico in writing before such retrenchment ; and 
( b ) Compeupation which shall be equivalent to Afteen days average 
рау for every completed 

year 

s of service under that employer 
or any part thereof in excess of six monthe . 
5. (1). Where 

Payment of 

gratuity . 
(a ) any working jouroalist has been continuous servioa, whether 

before or after the commencement of thin Aot, for not loss 
than thred years in any uewspaper establishment , and 
(i) his services are terminated by the employor in relation to 

that nowspaper establishmont for any rearon whatsvever, 
otherwise than as a punishment inflicted by way of dircipli 

nary action , or 
( ii) he retiros from service on reaching the age of superannus 

tion , or 
( iii ) he voluntarily resigns from verviệe from that newspaper 

establixhment, of 
(b ) any working journalist dies while he is in hervice in any 

new & paper Catw blishment. 
the working journalist or, as the cußo may be , his heirs shall, without profudios : 

to suy benefits . or righita souruing ander the Industrial Diupatei Act , 1947 , 
** V 1947. be . pail, ou ruch terminatina , retirement, resignation or death , by the employer 

in rolution to thet establishment gratuity which shall be equivalent to ffisen 
days average pay for overy, completed year of service or“ any part thoroof in . 
CXD088 of six months. 

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where a working 
jonroalist in employed in any new paper establishment wherein not more than 

Working journalists : were employed on any day of the twelve months 


- 


2 


1 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 17, 1956 . 


Hours of 
work . 


Leave 


immediately preceding the commencement of this Act , tho gratuity payablo 
to a working journalist employed in any svob nowapa por cstablishment for 
any period of service before such commencement shall bu equivalent to 

(a) three daya everage pay for every nompleted year of service 

or any part thereof in excoes of six months, if the period of 

sach pust service does not exceed tep years ; 
(b) five daya ? sverage pay for every completed year of servire vr 

say purt thereof in exceas of six moothf, if the period of 
sugh past servio , expreds five years but does not exceed ten 

Yoare ; and 
( ) seven day averago pay for every oumplete your of service or 

any part thereof in exOOBS of six months, if the period of - 

nch part porrice exceeds ten years. 
6. (1 ). Subject to any rules that may be made under this Act, no working 
journalist shall be required or allowed to work in any newspaper Betablish 
ment for more than one hundred and forty - four hours during any porio uf 
four consecutive weeks, exclusive of the time for meals . 

( 3 ) Every working journalist shall be allowol iluring any period of 
soven conscontive daye rest for a period of nut less than twenty - four cun . 
socutive hours, the period botween 10 pm , add 6 A.m. being included therein . 

Explanation . For the purposes of this stotivn , week means a perio i of 
soven days beginning at mid -night on Saturilay . 

7. Without prejudica to such holidays , CAKUNI leave or other kinds of 
leave as may bo presoribed , every working journalist shall be entitled trima 

(u) carned loave on full wages for not less than onr - leventh of 

the period #pent on dary ; 
(b ) leave on modioal certifionte on one -half of the wages for not 

less than ono - eighteonth of the period of keivice. 
Constitution S. (1) The Central Government may , by notification in the Official Gazetto , 

constitute # Wage Board for fixing rates of wages in respect of working 
journalists in accordanoe with the provisions of this lot. 

( 2 ) The Board shall consist of an equal number of persons Duminated 
by the Central Government to reprerent employers in relation to nowspaper 
establishments and working journalista , and an indepobient person shall bien 
appojated by the Central Goverumeut ex the Chairman thoreof. 

9. ( 1) In fixing rates of wages in respect of working journalists, tho 

Board shall have regard to the cost of living , the prevalent rates of wages 
| Fixation of 

for comparable employments , the circumstanoes relating to the newspaper in 
dustry in different regions of the country , and to any other circumstances 
whiol to the Board may seem rolovant. 

(2) The Board may fix rates of wages fur time work and for pisoo work . 

(8 ) The decirion of the Board fixing rates of wages shall be communicated 
46 Joon a . practicable to the Ceatral Govora mont 

10. ( ) The decision of the Board shall, within a period of one month Publication 
from the date of its receipt. by the Central Government, be published in such of Board 
madner as the Central Government think it , 

( *) . The decision of the Buard . published under sub- section ( 1) shall come 
into oporation with effect from such date as may kuo specified in the decision , 
madwbare ao date is so specified , it will bome into oporation on the date 
of itw poblimation . 

11. Subject to any rules of procedure whfob may be preseribed , the Board Powers and 

for the porpoan of Axing rate of wages , exercine the same powern , and procedure of 
IIV Af 194 %, follow the same pruenduro wa Industrial Tribunal donstituted under their 

Industrial Diopeter Act, 1947 , xorsires or follow for the parpone of adjadi 
outing an industrial diopato Totterred to it. 


of wage 


Board . 


Wages . 


ol deoisiou 


Add its oota : 
mencecat 


of w . & c . 


1946 to 


nowspaper 


. 


mente , 


relation to newspaper establishments and , every working journalist whall be . Horta 

MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY.17. 1986 . 

IPUF 
12. The desicion of the Board shall be binding on all employers in Decision of 

be bindig 
entitled to be paid wages at a rate which sbull, in no cene , be less than on U 

: employers . 
the rate of wages fixed by the Boarch. 

13. (1 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act , bore the Power of 
entral Government is of opinion that it is necessary go to do , it may, after Governinent 
consultation with the Board , by notification in the Official Gazette , fix iuterim cerim rates 
rates of wages in respect of working journalisi e. 

(* ) Any interim rate of wage ro fixad shall be binding on all employers 
in relation to newepaper establishments and every working . journalist shall 
be entitled to be paid wages at a rate which shall , ia no case, be lors thou 
the interim rate of wagos fijad under sub -section ( 1) . 

( 3 ) Apy interim rates of wages fixed under sub -section ( 1 ) #hall remain . 
in force until the decision of the Board oomes juto -operation under sub - section ( 2) 
of section 10. , 

CHAPTER III 
APPLICATION OF CERTAIN ACTS TO 

NEWSPA PER EMPLOYEES . 
14. The provisions of the Industrial Employment (Standing Ordlers ) Act, 
1946 , a . in foros for the time being, shall apply to evury newspaper extablish ment 

XX of 1946 
Act XX of wherein twenty or more newspaper employees are employed or were empoyol 
apply to .on any day of the preceding twelve months as if ruch newspaper e - tablish 
ostablish 

ment were an industrial establishment to which the aforesaid Act has been 
applied by a notification , uader sub -section (3 ) of soction I thereof , and an 
if & newspaper employee wore a workman within the iraning of that Act. 

15. The Employees Provident Fund Act, 1952 , as in force for thr time 
Aot XIX of bring , shall apply to every , zawspaper establishment in which tweniyor 
apply to more persons are employed on any day , as if such new paper establikdirnent XIX of 1952 
news paper were a factory to which the aforesaid Act hall been supplied by a notification 

of the Central Government under sub -section (8 ) if recrion I thereul; non if 
& new & paper employee were an employee within the meaning of that Act. 

CHAPTER IV 

MISCELLANEOT S . 
18. ( 1) The provisions of this Aot shall have effect uotwithstanding 

anything inconsistent thero with contained in any other law or in ibu terme 
freements of any award , agreement or contract of service , whether inade before or after 
with this Act , the commencement of this Aot : 

Provided that where under any such award , agreement, contract of service 
or otherwise, a newspaper employee is entitled to benefits in rospect of any 
matter which are maure favourable to bing than thure to which he would be 
entitled under this Aul, the newspaper employee shall continue to be entitled 
to the moro favourable benefits in respect of that matter, notwithstanding that 
be recieves benetite in respect of other matters under this Act.. 

(2) Nothing cuntained in this Act shall be construal to precludo ary 
newspaper employee " from entering into an agreement with an employer for 
granting him rights or privileges iu respect of any matter which are more 
favourable to him than those to which ḥo would be entitled under tbis Act. 

17. Where may money is due to a newspaper employee from an employer 
Recovery ander any of the provisivas of this Act, whether by way of compenuation , 
ofmoney .. gratuity or wages, the newspaper employee may , without prejudice to any 
smployds. other mode of recovery , make an application to the State Government for 

the recovery of the money due to him , and if the State Goveri mupt or such 
authority is the- State Government may specify in this bebinJf is sati fiod that 
Any możey is so due, it shall issue a certificate for that amount to the 
collector and the collector vball proceed to recover that amoant in the same 
manner. Not arreur 

ir arroar of the land rovenue. 


1952 to 


etablisb 
monts. 


Effeot of 
laws and 


ad udga 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , PEBRUARY 17 , 1966. 


1 


make fulek . 


18 (1) Iany employar contravene the provisions of motion 6, he whall be penalty. 
punishable with fine whtoh may extend to two hundred mpoor . 

( 2) No court iaforior to that of a prosidonoy magistrata or s magistrate of 
tobre first class skall try say ottonov punishable under this section . 

(3) No dourt aball tako oogaizpace of ra offence under thie, eaction , unters 
the complaint therat in made within vix months of the date on whiol the offance 
is alleged to have buon committed . 

19. . No suit , prouvontion or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Indemnity . 
Chairman or any other monaber of the Board for any thing which is in good faith 
done or intended to be don .. 

20. (1) The Central Govergnent may, by notifiontion in the divial Power to 
Gazette ; muke rulon to oarry out the parposes of this Act. 

(2) In particular and without prejudioe to the gonerality of the foregoing 
power, such rulou may provide for all or say of the following matters , namely : 

(* ) payment of gratuity to working journalists ; 
(b) hours of work of working jobrnalists ; 
(c ) holidays, earned loavo, leave an medioal cortificate , casual leave 

or any other kind of admisible to working journalists ; 
( d) the procedure to be followed by the Board in fixing rates of 

Wages ; 
( c) the manner in which the docision of the Board may be published ; 

(f) any other matter whioh has to be , or tway be , prescribed . 
(3 ) All rules made under this sootion aball, as foon as practioable after 
they are made, be laid bolore both Houses of Paliamont. 

21. Tho Working Journaliste ( Indestrial Disputes ) Act , 1953 is hereby 1 of 1955. 
reposled . 


Repeal of 
Act 1 of 
1955 . 


Langlaufrutud mod publebad by the Supurlanadear Government Porta a . 233 /17- fach 


Manipur 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 59 - E - 18 


Imphal, Saturday, February 18 , 1956 . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 

Orders , by , the Shiel 3Comming ;opf3.5. 
No. F - DPC / 1 / 554 

Daled Imphal, ine 
Subject :-Second Five Year Plan - Preparation of District and Village Plans 

The following instructions are issuel for the guidance of the Officers in charge of 
Development Departments , the Deputy Commissioner , the Revenue Officers subordinate to 
him and others in the preparation of District and Village Plans for the Soc m five year 
Plan of this State : 

2 . Mavipur is & single district State anl, therefore , the Distriit l lan is also in a sense 
the State Plan . But by the term District Plan may be understood the suin total of the Vil 
lage Plans es collated and modified ly the Deputy Commissioner and :4pproved by the State 
Government. The term State Plan may denote the Plan originating at the level of the 
State Government . 

3 . Contents of the Village Plan- In paragraph 7 of the Planning Commisriin s letter 
No. FYIT/CDI/ ! /51 } ulod tlo 28th April , 19.54 fujno items for Village Plins have bron 

Educa 
ope ifiedl , Jo pai agraph of the letter there is a reference to items such as llealth , 
tion , otc . These as elundited in Planning Commission s letter No. FYII /CD1/ 05/5.5 date ! 
February 22 , 1955 will form the contents of the Village Plans. l be attached proforma 
onumeratog the items, Separate instructions for preparation of Plans for Imphal 
Municipality and other sclect oreus inarkedly urban in character will follow . 

Brondly speaking , there are rurious items in the proforma in rest ect of which it is possible to 
achieve substiintial results by self- help and collective offort, i.e., without any contribution from the 
Stale revenues I; such self -help and colleclive " ffort , either in the shape of money or kind , is 
not forthcoming to the extent considered necrszary, it is almost certain that the scope of progress 
in ihoss items will be corresponding y lovs , All concerned with planning shoulil not only var 
this point in mind , but should spare 10 prins t: emphasize it in villagjes, 80 that undue 
expectations may not be raised Kulely on the strength of taryels indicted in the profurna . 

4. Frame-work of District and Village plans In pursuance of the recommendations of 
the Planning Commission in paragraph 1 of the letter of the 28th April , 1954 the Depart . 
ments at the Slatu -cum - District levol should indicate thu general framework of the District 
Plan for the above itons. For this purpose the officers in chargo of Development Depart. 
ments will lour a represontative solection of at least a dozen villogu in euch Tabsil in the 


2 


Plain and one sub- division in the Hills and hold discussions with the concerned local officials 
and as many local learlers as pusrible , particularly from the villages . In the light of these 
discursions , cach Officer in charge of a Development. Dopariment will indicate to the Deputy 
Commissioner the target for his subject for each Ta bril/ Sub - llivision . The Deputy Com 
missioner will, in consultation with these Officers , work out the general framework for the 
District Plan ( with Tabsil / Sub -division -wise breakup ) for the various items enumerated in 
the proforma. A copy of the District framework targeta Talukwise targets for a particular 
district is enclosed for Development Departments only herewith for information and guidance. 
The officer in charge of Development Departments responsil,le for the subjects for which they 
are to fix targets are shown in paragraph 10 below . A list of Planning Tahsils / Sub -divisions 
is also given in para 11. 

5. Machinery for Planning - The Dutrict Framework of the Plan with Tahsil / Subdi 
vision -wise break -up , as compiled by the Deputy Commissioner and as approved by the State 
Government, will be cominunicated to all Development Departments for the information and 
guidance of the officers and other staff of those Departments. It will also go to the Sub 
divisional Oflicere, Subleputy Collectos, Project Executive Officer, Block Development 
Officers, Extension and Supervisory Officers , Village level workers, Kanangus, Annins , 
Jiladars , Mouzadara , Village Chowkidors , Presidents of Village Panchayets and Village 
Development Committees, Members of the Village Adalati Panchayete , Teachers of the 
village schools , etc , why are to le rusponsible for the build - up of the plan at various stages , 

The framework , District and Tahsil/ Subdivirion , will be irrorated into column 3 
of the attached proforma by these officials against cach item before they proceed to elicit 
information on the various items in the proferinit . 

(a ) Plans in Panchayat drras - In villages where there is l c VJlage Panchayats, tho 
l auchayat shall be the committee for village plannings . The villa ( chowkidar , members 
of tlo village Adalati Panchayet, the villageschwol teachers and wherever the village comes 
under the Community Development and National Extension l rogrammer , the Gram Sevak 
will also be members . The members of the Adalati Panchayats and the teachers may be dis 
tributed to different village planning units within the area ferved loy tho Adalati Panchayat 
and the school. This applies to teachers of High Schouls and Middle Schools , if any . 
The President of tho Panchayat or the person who is entitled to exercise the functions of the 
President will be the convener of the Panchayat Planning Committee . 

(b ) Plans in Non - Panchayat Areas -The villages in non - Panchayat areas will have 
Village Planning Committee , one for cach village or convenient group of villages . The 
division of & Tahsil , a Sub -divisior, or a Block area into village planning units should be 
approved by the Sub - Deputy Collector /Sub- Divisional Officer , or where there are Community 
Development Projects and National Extension Service Blocks by the Project Executive Officer 
or Block Development Officer . It may be borne in mind in this connection that a Commu 
nity Development or National Extension Block covers about 100 villages and an averago 
population of 66,000 . The Sub -Deputy Collector/Sub-Divisional Officer , or in the case of 
Project and Extension Blook areas the Project Executive Officer or Block Development Officer 


3 


shall nominate the members of the Committee , which shall invariably contain the Gram 
Sevak , the Village Chuwkidar and a member of the Adalati Panchayat ferving the area , if 
any . The Chowkidar will be the convener of the committee . The total strength of this 
Committee may be from 7 to 1 ] , including the Choukiilar and member of the Adalat 
Panchayet. If it is not possible to include the Circle Amin , the Monmolar and the village 
Fohool teacher in the committee , they should as a rule be invited to the meetings of tho 
committee . The distribution of teachers and members of the Adalnti Panchayats to the 
different village committees will he ag in the case of the l anchayat areas. 

( c ) Plans for Areas with some Urlian Element . - The machinery here will be the same 
as for the villages in Panrayat or Non -panchayat areas , only , the information collected 
will be different in view of the urban element involved . 

6 . Build -up of the Plan : 

(a ) Tho Cliowkidar , the Panchayet Executive , the (iram Sevak , etc , will discuss the 
proforma in their committees and obtain information on the targets already written in and 
on the contribution which each village is prepared to make by way of men , money , 
material, etc. Such of the relevant data us are available in the village recorde mantained 
by Amins and others will also be filled in lig thoni. 

Tho village plan will be prepared in duplicate and they will send up one COP ! 
in original to the Revenue Oficer in large of the Tahsil or Sub - olivision and in the 
case of Project and Extension areas to the Project Exycutive Officer or Blick Development 
Officer as the case may be . 

(b ) Tho S.D.C., Sub- Divisional Onicer Block levelopment Officer etc. will collate the 
village plans, scrutinise them by conducting a low test checkr , kay about 5 per cent and 
also in consultation with the subjicy specialists , such as Agricultural Demonstrator , Veteri. 
nary Assistant Surgeon , Extension Oficers, etc. IIe will explain any substantial modifcations 
made in the general fianirwork . The Tahsildar, Block Development Officer, etc. will 
then send up the Tahsil or Block totalwith the village plans in original to the Deputy 
Commissioner . This set of village plans in original will be returnel to the s.n.c., S.D.O., 
etc. for retention after approval of the Government. 

(c ) The Tahsil, Sub Division anıl the Municipal plans will be collated by the Deputy 
Commissioner into the District Plan and the modifications discusred with the Officers in . 
charge of the Development Departments . The 1 ).C . will then enbmit the District plan to the 
Govt. for approval. We will also send copies of the came to the development Departments 
for scrutiny . 

( d ) The Development Departments will then indicate to the Government portions of 
their state Plan to be implemented in each particu ar Tahril or Block , for example , hospi 
tals and dispensaries , eloctricity extension , road schemer , irrigation schemes , etc , outside 
the Village and Municipal Plans. This together with the Tahsil / Subdivision (District) 
Plan as approved by the Governinent will be the final comprehensive Tahsil /Subdivision etc. 
Plan which will be placed for tho approval of the Tahsil /Subili virion Planning Committee. 
The Tabeil/Subdivision Plans ( comprehensive ) finally approved by the Government of 
India will be published and placed before the peoplo for implementation , 


( o ) The comprehensive State Plan emerging as a result of the consolidation of the State 
Level Plan with the District Level Plan will also be placed for the approval of the Stato 
Planning and Development Committee. 

7 . Training.- For this purpose , somo general instructions will be necessary in planning 
work for the Kana : igur , Amins, Mouzadars , Chowkidars, S.1 Cs./S.D.Os, and Municipal 
Executiver . The D.C. will arrange to explain to the S.D.Cs. , S.D.Os, and Municipal Executivess 
how the work is to be done. The Tahsildars in their turn , will similarly instruct the 
Panchayat Executives , Amins , Mouradars and Chuwkidarg . 

8. Community Development Areas - In the Nətional Extension and Community 
Development Aras , the work of planning will the responsibility of the Block Officials. 
The Gram Sevaks will work at the level of the village committee and the Block Deve 
lopment Officer at the Block level in place of the S. D. C./S . 1) . O , The Project Officer / 
Block De volopment Officer will collate the village plans an :l conduct a few test checks in 
the field of pot less than 5 pc and also fcrutinise them in consultation with the Extension 
Officers . He inay make sucb modifications as may be necessary but he will explain any subs 
tantial modificntions made in the general framework . If the present system of multipurpose 
Zonal Supervisors continues in the Thoubal Community Development Block the Gram Sevaks 
and others at the village level may forward the plans to the Supervisors who may collate 
thom and make the Zunal Plan after conducting a few text checks of not less than 5 p.c. 
The Zonal Plans thus formed will he forwarded to the Project Executive Officer. 

(a ) In National Extension areas where there are no multipurpose Zi nal Supervisors , the 
Gram Sevaks will forward all the village plans of their circlex to the Block Development 
Officer . The Blick Development Officer with the help of the Extension Officers and other 
staff of the Development Departmonts in the area will after conducting a few test checks ! 
of not lost than 5 per cent of cases, consolidate the Village Plans into the Block Plan in the 
mannor laid down in para 6 (b ) abuve , 

9 . In Hill areas the Village Authorities will frame the village plans and the Headmen 
will retain one copy and send up another to the S.N.O. concerned . In the Community Pro 
ject and N.E.S. areas , the B.D.0 , will constitute a village development committee for each 
village including the members of the Village Authority , the Gram Sevak , the village school 
teacher, if any , and not more than three other membere nominated from 

mong progressive 
farmers , educated people od social workers in the village . This Village Development 
Committee will frame village plads, one copy of which will be retained by the Committee 
and the other sent up to the BDO by the Gram Sevak . 

10. Responsibility for fixation of targets — Tle Board /officers mer tioned lelow will fix the 
Tahsil and District targets in respect of the items shown against them : 


.. 


(i) I cal Development Board : Village Irrigation works (excluding Minor Irrigation 

Works which are the responsibility of the Public works 

Departments ). 
(ii ) -do 

Planting of Trees (excluding those which come under the 
purview of the Forest and Agriculture Departmonts . ) 


8 


(iii) Director of Agriculture : ( a ) Use and Production of Improved Seeds . 

( b ) Urc of Mannres and Fertilizers , 
( c ) Reclamation of waste land . 
( 1 ) Contour bunding and soil conservation . 
(« ) Fruits . 
( f) Improved methods of cultivation . 

(8 ) Bee -keeping “ 10 ( ) of the proforma. 
(iv ) Deputy Commissioner : Fisheries 

( Fisberies ) 
( v ) Chief Medical Officer : (a ) Improved cattle . 
(Veterinary ) 

( 1. ) Dairying - 9 (a ) of the proforma. 
( c Poultry . 

( ) Piggeries -- 10 (u ) and 10 (c) of the proforma. 
( vi) Registrar of Co- operative (a ) Co -operative Organisation . 

Suciotics : ( 1 ) Dairying - 9 (b ) of the proforma. 
(vii ) Local Development Board : Village commun c:ation . 
(viii) Inspector of Schools : Education . 
(ix ) Chief Medical Officer : Health and sanitation including maternity Centres . 
( 2 ) Chief Medical Ollicer : Dispensaries . 
( xi) Director of Industries : 

Khadi, 
* ( xii ) Forest Officer : 

Village Forests. 
11. Planning Tahsils /Sub -divisions — The terms Tahsil/Sub - division will for the purpose 
of this order cover the following Talısils and sub divisions : 

1. Imphal East Talsil 
2. Imphal West Tahsil 
3. Thoubal Tahsil 
4. Bishenpur Tahsil 
5. Sadar ( Hill ) Sub - division 
6. Ukhrul Sub -division 
7. Chuiachandpur subdivision 
8. Jiribam Sub - division 

9. Tamenglong Subdivision . 
12 , Timo Schedule : 

( i ) The proforma will be printed and distributed to the Development Departments , 
Deputy Commissioner, S. D. Cr , and S. 1), Os. A few type script copies woulu have been 
despatched earlier to the Development Departments , etc. by the 25th of July , 1955. Sufficient 
number of copies will be printed Loth in English and Manipuri characters for distribution . 
Each Village Committee will get two copies . 
F. N .- * Added as per amendment coutained in Govt. of Manipur Home and Dev . memo No. F - DP0 /1 /54 

Dated 22. 9. 55 
+ Deleted " by the 15th August 1955 " vide memo of cyen no . and dato . 


6 


(* ) Officers in charge of Developmont Departments to form a representative selection of 
villages in each Tahsil /Sub-division as laid down in para 4 above and indicate Tahsil anıl 
District Targets for their subjects to the Deputy Commissioner by the 15th of September, 
1955 . 

(iii ) District and Tahsil framework to be communicated loy the D.C. to all local and 
village officials by the 30th of September . 

( iv ) From the 20th of July onwarile the S ]),Cs / S 1).Os, will go on constituting Village 
Development Committere in non Parichayet areas till they complete the work by the 30th 
September . The 3.D.Cs./S D.06 . will then communicate the District and Tahsil framework to 
the village committocs. This will be completed by the 15th of October . 

( v ) By the 15th of Ncvember all village plans will be sent up to the S.D.Cs./S.D.Os, who 
will scrutinise , and collate the village plans , draw up Tahsil/ Subdivision I lans, and food 
tten up to the Deputy Commissioner. The Deputy Commissioner will forwarıl the craft 
District Plan with Tahsil /Snb - division -wi.e break - up hy the 15th of December, 1953 to the 
State Government with copies of relevant portions to the Development Departments . 

(vi) By the 30th of December the Developmen : Departments will return the District plans 
(their respective portions) to the State G , vernment and the Deputy Commissioner after 
making additions by way of segments of the State Plan in the Tahsil/ Sub -division , 

(vii ) Tahsil / Sub - division Plannirg Committees will discus8 and approve the Tahsil/ Sub 
division Plans by thu 15th January . 

( viii) State Planning Committee will consider the District Plan by the 31st January . 

(ix ) D.C. and S.D.Cs./S.D.Os .will make arrangements for the training described in para 7 
abovo sufficiently ahead . 


By order: 

H. R. Singu 
Assistant Secretary ( Dev .) 
to the Government of Manipur 


গেভর্ণমেন্ট ওফ মণিপুর 

হােম এণ্ড ডিভেলপমেন্ট ডিপার্টমেন্ট 
ওডর নং F - DPC / 0 / 64 

তাং ২৩ জুলাই, ১৯৫৫ 
বিষয় - অনিশুবা চহি মঙাগী প্লান (জিলা অমসুং খুনগী প্লান শেবগী মরম ) 


। 


1 , 


অহম ওইরে । 


মখানা ইৰিবা নিয়মশিং অসি অনিশুবা চহি মাগী প্লনগী মতু ইন্না জিলা অমসুং খুনগ প্লান শেদা 
ডিভেলপমেন্ট বিভাগ পুবা অফিসাৰশিং, ডিপুটি কমিশনর , মহাক্কী মখাদা লৈবা রেভিনিয়ু অফিলারশিং অমসুং 
অতৈ অগৈ সমজিং ওইনবগীদমক ফোংদোকলি : 
২। মণিপুর অসি জিলা অমতন। শাবা ষ্টেটনি । অদুনা রাখল অমদা জিলাগ প্লান অদুনা ষ্টেটকী প্লান 

তৌইগুম্বং খুনগী প্লান ময়াম খোমজিনা অমসুং শেমদোতুনা ডিপুটি কমিশনরনা শাগৎপা 
অমসুং মণিপুর সরকার আর অপুনবা মও , অদুবু জিলা প্লান হায়না খনবা য়াই । ষ্টেট সরকারগ 
ধাগীহৌদোকলকপা প্লান অদুবুনা ষ্টেট প্লান হয়না কৌব। যাই । 

৩। খনগী প্লানদা য়াওগদ মচাক - প্লানিং কমিশনগী চিঠি নং FYIl / CDI/ 1/ 5 $ তাং ২৮ 
এপ্রিল ১৯৫৪ গ ৭ শুবা পেরোফ খুন প্লানা আওগদবা হীরম খর । মশক পঙ্গুনা হায়রি । হায়রিবা চিঠি 
সিগ পেরেগ্রাফ ৯ শুবদা হকশেল, মহৈতম্ব অসিনচিংবা হীরমসু পল্লি । প্লানিং কমিশনপী চিঠি নং FYII/ CDI/ 
6:56 ফেব্রুয়ারি তাং ২২ দা শন্দো তাকপা মতু ; ইন্না হীরমশিং অসিন খুনগী প্লানগী মচাক ওইগনি । মখাদা 
মাওরিবা প্রােফোমদা হিমশিং অদু মখং মখং উলি । অদুগা ইস্ফাল মনিসিপালিটি অমসুং সহরগ মও 
ওইনা তৌবা অখবা লমশিংগা প্লান শেম্বগী মরমদাতোগদবা থবক্তি কোন্না হায়রনি । 

চাউরাঙ্গা হায়বদা প্রােফোর্ম দি উলিবা থবক্কী হীরমশিং অসিগী মনুংদা সরকারদগী শেলগী মতে সুপলো 
সৌদনা প্রজাশিংনা মরয়াই মরাই হােনজদুনা অমসুং ময়াম লিংজেল মান্ননা হােৎনমিদুনা মশক থোকা 
থবক পাথােকপা বা হীম কয়া য়াওরি । মরম অসিন মশা মশাগী চাওখনৰগীদমক অমদি ময়ামগা পু 
চাওখৎনবগীদমক শেল, পােং অমসুং পাঙ্গল মতিক চানা পুথাের বদি হায়রিবা হীরমশিং অসিদা প্ৰজাগা চাওখৎপা 
রাংকনি হায়বসি মশানা তাজবনি । মরম অসিনা প্লন শেম্বদা মাওরিবা মী খুলিংমা বা অসি মক্লিংদা খও বত। 
নত্তনা খুন খুন অদুগা মীশিংদা য়াম্না মুন্না খঙ হনগদবনি । মসি প্রােফোর্ম দি তাকলি টার্গেত ( মৌগে 
আজিৰা পালম) অসিদা ভাতা চেংদুনা সরকার মতে কা হেয়। আশা ভোদনবনি । 

৪। জিলা অমসুং গুনগী প্লান শেমগী ফ্রেম ( খৰী চাউরাপা শকফম ) প্লানিং 
কমিশননা তাং ২৮৪৫০ চিঠিগী ৪ শু পেরোফা তারুকপগী মতুং ইন্না ষ্টেট কম জিলাগী লেভেলদা 
(থা ) লৈবা ডিপার্টমেন্টশিংনা মথা ভাকবি হিমশিং অসিগী জিলা প্লানগা ক্ৰেমৱৰ্ক অদু উৎকদবনি । থেীরা 
অলি পাথােবগীদমক ডিভেলপমেন্ট ডিপার্টমেন্টী অফিসারশিংলা তমপাজী তহশীল খুদিং অমসুং চিংগী স 
ডিভিস খুদিংগী খনগল খুন ১২/১২ দংদি চত্ত না মফম মফম অদুগা অফিশিং সুচিবেশিং থােইদোকপলি 
নগ সুবিশিংগা হিরম অসিদা খন্নগদৰনি । খঞ্জরকপগী মণ্ডং মতুংইয়া ডিভেলপমেন্ট ডিপার্টমেন্ট অমমম পুরি 


৪ 


অফিসারশি না মাগী মাগী খবা টাগে ত অদু তহশীল সব- ডিভিসন খুদিংগী ওইনা পিৎকবনি । ডিপুটি 
কমিশনরনা মরী লৈনবা অফিসারশিংগা তান্নদুনা প্রােফোর্ম দিল মাওরিবা হিমশিং অসিগা ( তহশাল সব - ডিভিসন্ 
বুদিংগা তো তোপ্না ভৰবা ) জিন্স প্লানগী ফ্ৰেমৱৰ্ক শেমগবনি । কৰিগুৰা জিলা অম জিলা ফ্ৰেমৱৰ্ক টার্গেত 
তালুক টার্গেতকী কোপি (নকল) অমা খঙনব। অমসুং লনজীং ওইনবা ওইনা হাপলি [ডিপার্টমেন্টশিংগী দমক্তনি ] । 
ডিভেলপমেন্ট ডিপার্টমেন্টশি ; পুঝিবা অফিসারশিংনা নানা মানা টার্গেত পাগদবা হীরমশিং মােগা তরাত 
পেরেফত উলি । প্লানিং তহশীল অমসুং সব -ডিভিসঙ্গী লিষ্ট অমসু তরামাথেইশুবা পেরোফতা পরি । 

৫। প্লান শাগবা যন্ত্র - ডিপুটি কমিশননা খােমজিল্লবা অমসুং ষ্টেট সরকার আর তহশীল, সব 
ডিভিসনগ টার্গেত আওরুবা জিলা প্লনগী মওং অদু 1..ভলপমেন্ট ডিপার্টমেন্টশিং। পুৰিবা অফিসারশিং 
অদুগী অমসুং মখােইগী ষ্টাপকী খননবা অমসুং লমজীং ওইনবা থারকনি । অসিম্বা 

প্লান অসি 
সডিভিসন পুরি অফিসারশিং, সব -ডিপুটি কলেক্টর, প্রােজেক্ট ইকজেটিভ অফিসার, ব্লোক ডিভে 
লপমেন্ট অফিসার, এটেন্সন অমসুং সুপরভাইজরি অফিসারশিং , ভিলেজ লেভেল বাকরশিং , কাননগুশি , 
আমিশিং, জিলদারশিং, মেজাদারশিং, খুনগী চৌকিদারশি , খুনগী পঞ্চায়েকী অমসুং খুনগী ডিভেলপমেন্ট 
কমিটিগী প্রেসিডেন্টশিং, খুনগী আদালতী পঞ্চায়েৎক । মেশিং, খুনগী স্কুলগ ওঝাশিং অসিনচিংবা প্লান শাগৎলক পদা 
মখল মখাগী দায়িত্ব লৈ মীপুম খুদিংমক্তা থাগদবনি । 

অফিসারশিংনা প্রােফোম দিা য়াওরিবা তোঙানতোঙানব। আইতেমগী মরমদা প্রজাশিংগী । হংবা চলিঙৈদা 
জিলা অমসুং তহশীল সবডিভিসনগী ফ্ৰেমৱৰ্ক অদু -মতুংদা পীরিবা প্রােফোর্ম গিী কলম অমশুদা আইতেম খুদিংগা 
কোমনা ছাপচিনগদবনি । 

( ক) পঞ্চায়েং এরিয়াগ প্লান - পঞ্চায়েৎ লৈবা খুজংশিংগীদি, পঞ্চায়েৎ অদুনা খুঙ্গংগ প্লান শেষণী কমিটি 
ওইগনি । খুনগী চৌকিদার , আদালতী পঞ্চায়েৎকী মেম্বারশিং, খুন ওঝাশিং, কখুনিটি ডিভেলপমেন্ট অল্প 
নেসনেল এঙ্কটেন প্রোগ্রাম কোনবা পুনশিংদদি . এম সেবক মেম্বর ওইগদৰনি । আদালতী পঞ্চায়েৎ অম 
স্কুলনা পুৰিবা এরিয়াদদি মেম্বৰশিং অমসুং. ওঝাহি খুনশী রানিং ইয়ুনিত ময়ামছুর্গ মেম্বর ওইনা মোেৰা 
মাই । হয়ৰিব। অসি হায়দ্ভুল অমসুং এম , ই স্কুলগী ওঝা লৈবামফমদ তৌগদবনি । পঞ্চায়েৎকী প্রেসিডেন্ট 
নত্ৰগা প্রেসিডেন্টকী থবক পরিবা অদুনা পঞ্চায়ে . প্লানিং কমিটি কোনভেনর ( মিটিং কোবা মী ) ওইগনি 

( খ ) পঞ্চায়েৎ এরিয়া নত্তবা মফমগী প্লান * পঞ্চায়েৎ লৈত ধুনশিংগী খুন -খুগী ওইরবসু নৱগ 
খুদোং চাগদবা চেংদুনা খুন ধরা পুনশিল্পগা ওইরবসু ..খুন প্লানিং কমিটি লৈগনি । তহশীল সব - ডিভিসন 
নত্ৰগা স্লোক এরিয়া অমৰু ধুনগী প্লয়িং ইয়ুনিত ময়াম থােকা খায়দেকপ এল ডি সি , এস ডি ও না 

গদবনি ; কমুনিটি প্রােজেক্ট অমসুং এনঃ ই এস স্লোক এৰিয়া ওইরগনা প্রােজেক্ট একজোটভ অফিসার 
নগা ব্লোক ডিভেলপমেন্ট অফিসার মাগদবনি । মতাং অসিদা খঙগদবা অমনা কটি প্রােজেক্ট এক্সি 
নত্ৰগা নেসননেল একাটেনসন ব্লোক অমদা খুন ,১০০ বােম অদুগা মীশিংনা চাওৱা ৬৬ ,•• নােম ৈ 
সব -ডিপুটি কলেক্টরসব- ডিভিসনেল অফিসারনা অমসুং কমুনিটি প্রোজেক্ট নগানেনেল এক্সটেপ " শ্লোক এরিয়া 
ওইরগনা প্রােজেক্ট এজেটিভ অফিসার নগা ক্লেক ডিভেলপমেন্ট অফিসারনা , কমিটি মেম্বর হাপকনি । কমিটি 
অদুদা গ্রাম সেবক , খুনী চৌকিদার , অদুগা লৈবদি আদালতী পঞ্চায়েৎকী শের অমা শোয়লা ওহনগদবনি । 
চৌকিদার অদুনা কমিটি কভেনর ( মিটিং কে বা মী) ওইগনি । কমিটি মেম্বরপ অপু মশিংদি চে কিলার 
অমসুং আদালতী পঞ্চায়েৎকী মোর য়াওনা ৭ অগী ১১ ফাওবা লৈ যাই । কমিটি অদুদা সার্কল আমিন, 
মৌজাদার, অমসুং খুনগী ও মাওইনবা মারােইদ মওৰ লৈরবদি মখােয়র মিটিং বুদিংগী বাৰ্তন তৌধু 
মিটিং ফদা য়াওহনগদবনি । তোন - তোঙানবা খুনগী কমিটিদা আদালতী পঞ্চায়েৎকী মেষর অমসুং ফুল 


ও উহবা শিলােকপগী মও- দি পঞ্চায়েং এরিয়াগদা শিখিবদুগা চপ মান্নগনি । 

( গ) সহরগী মওং ওইনা তৌবা মফমগী প্লান - মফশিং অসিগী কমিটি শেম্বী মও অসি পঞ্চায়েৎ 
লৈ অমসুং লৈবা খুনগ চপ মাগনি । তৌবদৰু খােমজিল্লি পাউশিং অদুদি সহরগী মওং ওইনা তোবা 
মফমনিন । অতৈদগ খেমগনি । 


৬। প্লন শাগপা : 

(ক) চৌকিদার , পঞ্চায়েকী একজেটিভ (খক পুবিলি কাবু) গ্রাম শেবনচিংবা কমিটি মিটিংদা 
প্রােফোর্ম । অ E খমগনি ; হানা ইদুনা লৈবমলবা তার্গেতশিং অদু নৈনগনি । অদু খুন খুদি প্রজাশিংনা 
পাঙ্গল, শেল নগা পোলা ওইরবসু , কদায় ফাওবা মখৈ মতে পীরকপা মগদগে হায়বদুসু খন্নগনি । 
আমিনশিং অমসুং অতৈ অতৈ থম্বা খুনগী অফিস রেকোর্ডত ফংলকপা মরীলৈনবা নচাক পুষমক মখােয়না 
হাপচিনগনি । 

খুনপী প্লানগী কোপি অনিথােকা লেগিদবনি ; কোপি অমনা ( শিনদোকপা নবা ) মম মফমগী মণ্ড 
ইন্না তহশীল অমসুং সব-ডিভিসন পুৰা অফিসার, কমুনিটি প্রােজেক্ট অমসুং এক্সটেন্সন এলিয়া এইরগা প্রোজেক্ট 
একজেটিভ অফিসার নগা ব্লো ডিভেলোপমেন্ট অফিসারদা পাগদবনি । 

(খ ) এস ডিঃ সি , এস : ডিঃ ওঃ , ব্লোক ডিভেলোপমেন্ট অফিসার অসিনচিংবনা খুন প্লানশিং অদু চাদমনগনি , 
মুন্না য়েংগনি খুদমওইনা হায়বদা ইরকলি অদুর্গী চামদা মঙদিদি চুমব্রা লানা হায়বহু য়েংগনি অমসুং 
বিসয়শি:দুগী কুপশিরা খঙলা মী ( শেসিয়েলিষ্ট ) শিংগা হায়বদি এগ্রিকলচরেল ডেমােনস্ট্রেটর , ভেটেরিনারী 
এসিষ্টেট সার্জন , এক্সটেসন অফিসারনচিংবগা তাম্নগনি । থারক্লিৰা প্লান ফ্ৰেমৱৰ্ক অদুদা মরু এইবা হীরমদ । 
শেমদোকপা নলগা হােদোবদি মহাকা মাদুগী মরম পীগৰনি । অদুর্গ মতুংদা তহশীলদার , ব্লোক ডিভে, 
লোপমেন্ট অফিসার চিংবন তহশাল নগা ক্লোক্কী অপুনবা প্লান অদু ধুনী প্লনগী কোপি (শিন্দোপা 
নত্তবা ) লােয়ননা ডি সি দা থাগংকবনি । সরকার যানবা মতুংদা অমুক খুগী প্লাশিং অদু এস ডি 
ও , এস ডি সিঃ নচিংবদা খননগীদমক পীথরনি । 

(গ ) তহশীল , সবডিভিসন অমসুং মিউনিসিপালী প্লানদি ডি সিঃ না যেংগনি অমং ডিভেলোপমেন্ট 
ডিপার্টমেন্ট পুবা অফিসারশি গ । তদুনা শেমদোক দোয়া জিলাগী প্লানদা পুনশিনগনি । অদু মভুদা 
ডি : সিঃ না প্লান অদু গগভর্ণমেন্টদায়াবিনবীদমক থাৎকনি । অদুগ মথা ডিভেলােপমেট ডিপার্টমেন্ট 
শিংদা চেকশিল্পা রেংবগীদমক কোপা গনি । 

(ঘ) অদুগ মতুংলা ডিভেলােপমেন্ট ডিপার্টমেন্টশি -না সরকারদা ষ্টেট প্লানগীদি মনুং চনবা , খুনী অমসুং 
মিউনিসিপাল প্লানগ মনুংদি চন্দ অশাল নগা ক্লোক অমগী মনুংদা পায়খৎকদবা থৌরম হায়ৰদি হােস 
পিটাল অমসুং ডিস্পেনসরি , ইলেকঞ্জি সিটি এক্সটেসন, লীগ থবক , ইশিং খােংনচিংবর্গ থবকাচিংবা উৎকনি । 
পুমনমক অসি য়াউরবা সরকার আরবা তহশাল । সবডিভিসন জিলাগী প্লান অদু মপুং ফারবা তহশাল । 
সভিভিজন । জিলাগ প্লান ওইগনি । অমসুং মাদু তহশীল । সব ডিভিসনগ প্লানিং কমিটিদা আননবা পুথােকনি । 
ভারত সরকার আবিরবা মপুং ফারবা তহশীল । সবডিভিজনগ প্লান অদু ফোদোক্কনি অমসুং থবক পায় 
খৎনবা এজাদা সাহােকনি । 

( ) ষ্টেট লেভেল অমসুং জিলা লেভেল গাননা পুনশি না ওইরবা মপুং ফার ষ্টেট প্লাম অন্তু 
অমুক ষ্টেট গ্লাজিং কমিটি অমসুং ডিভেলােপমেন্ট কমিটিদায়াবিন পুখোনি । 

৭। টেনিং — গান শেষ মরমদা কানন , আমিন, মৌজাদার , চৌকিদার , এস : ছি : সি : / এসঃ ছিঃ 
ও অমসুং মিউনিসিপালগ থৰক পরিবশিংদা চাওরকিপা হীম খরা ডাক্তন খহন দরকারলি । ময়ম 


। 


j0 


- 


৬ ( খ ) গী 


অসিনা ডি সি : না এস ডি ও এস ডি : সি : অমসুং নিউনিসিপালগ বক পুরিবশিংদা মতো করা থবক 
অসি প থােকদগে হায়বসি তদননি । তহশীলদা.. i, মুক পঞ্চায়েৎকী মেম্বারশি , আমিন , মেজাদার 
অমসুং চৌকিদারশিং । তাৰুদবনি । 

৮। কমুনিটি ডিভেলােপমেন্ট এরিয়া নেসলে এক্সটেন্সন সার্ভিস অমসুং কস্যুনিটি 
ডিভেলােপমেন্ট ব্লোক এরিয়াণদি প্লাগ এক অসি ব্লোক । অফিসারশিনা দায় পুগনি । 

এম সেব 
ভিলেজগী ( খুনগী) লেভেলদা বক পুনি, ব্লোক ডিভেলোপমেন্ট অফিসারশিংনা এস ডি সি :/ এস : ডিঃ ওঃ গ 
মহত্তা মােঝী থবক পুগনি । মহাকনা ভিল 

মহাকনা ভিলগ প্লানশিং অদু চাংদমনগনি ল য়িদ। চতুন ইনিশিং 
অদুগ ১০০ দা ৫ দংদি চুমা হায়দু । সেংগনি, অদুগা এক্সটেন অফিসারশিংগ তাল্পনা প্লান অদু মন্না 
মুন্না য়েংগদবনি । 

মহাকা দরকার ওই হায়না খনবা মেদেক শাদোকপা পুষমক মাই অদুবু হান্না লৈ 
রমলিব । প্রবী 

খেওংদা 

মরুইন হোংবগী মরমশিংদুদি শুয়না তারুদবনি । হোজিক যৌবাল কম্মু 
নিটি ডিভেলােপমেন্ট ব্লোক লৈ রিবা মলটিজ পর্ভাইজরশিংগ মও: অসিনা অসুম চংধবা ভাবদি প্রা 
সেবক অমসুং পুংদা থবক তোরিশিং ভিলে প্লান 

প্লান সুপর ভাইজরদা খাগংকদবনি 

মহাকা প্লাশি 
অদু চাংদমনগা , ১০০ গ ন :ংদা ৫ দাদি তদনা পরীক্ষা খরা তে দুন । চেক তৌরগা জোনগী প্লান 
শেনগনি । অসিগুৰা প্লান অদু প্রোজেক্ট একজেটিভ অফিসারদা পারদবনি । 

( ক ) জোনগী মলাটপর্গস সুপভাইজর লৈতা নেসনেল এক্সটেন্সন এরিয়াদদি গ্রাম সেবকশিংনা মাগী 
মাগী এরিয়াগা ভিলেজ প্লানশিং "অ ব্লোক ডিভেলােপমেন্ট অফিসারদা খাৎকনি । ব্লোক ডিভেলোপমেন্ট 
অফিসারনা এক্সটেন্সন অফিসারশিং অমসুং ডিভেলোপমেন্ট ডিপার্টমেন্টক। এতে মেম্বরশংগা তান্নদুনা (ভিলেজ 
প্লান্দা) ইকলি অদুর্গী শরুক চামগ। মনু দা মা ঢংয়েংৰা ওইনা চাংদমনগ। নথী পারা 
মতুং ইন্না ভিলেজ প্লানশিং অদু পুনশিদুনা ব্লাক্কা প্লান শেমগদবনি । 

চীং লমগীদি ভিলেজ অথােরিনি ( খুনগী থবক পুরিবা মকোক ওইবশি না ) ডিলেজ প্ল 
শেনগনি অদুগা লুচিংবা অদুনা + অন লেহেরগা অতােপ্পা কোপী অন্ন মৰি লৈনব এস : ডিঃ ওঃ দা 
থাগৎকনি । কশ্মনিট প্রােক্টে ২ এ : : এস: ব্লেক এৰিদদি ব্লেক ডিভেলোপমেন্ট অফি বিন 
খুন খাদিমকী ভিলেজ ওথোরিটি ম মো : 

কলি 3 ধা লৈরবাদ ওঝা অগা, খুন দুর্গ ক্লোন 
তারবা লৌউবশি , লাইরিকহৈব। রেল কারশিদী থ লকপা মী অহুমদগী হেন্দৰা ভিলেজ ডিজে 
লােপমেন্ট কমিটি অমমম শোগদবনি । অতঃস্ব। ভল ৬ : ভালােপমেন্ট কমিটিনা ভিলেজ প্লান শেমগবনি । 
গান অদুগী কোপি অমা কমিটিন থমহেরগ। কো।ি এমন নথি লৈনবা গ্রাম সেবকনা যােক ডিভেলােপ. 
মেন্ট অফিসারদা থাগদৰনি । 

১০ ; মথী তার্গেত (পাম লেগগী দায়িত্ব : -মখাদা হারবা বাের্ডকী মেম্বারশিংনা মখদা পরিৰ ।হিমশি 
অসিপ তহশীল অমং জিলাগী পাংখোকদবা থবী চাং লেপকনি । 

(১ ) লােকেল ডিভেলােপমেন্ট বাের্ড -খুন , খুনগী ইশিংখােংগী থবক ( পি : ডবলইউ: ডিনা পাংথোকক 
বা ইশিংখো মচ মচাগী থবক মাওদন ) । 

(২ ) উথাবা - ফোরেষ্ট অমসুং এগ্রিকলচর ডিপার্টমেন্টনা তৌগদবা থবক রাওনা ) । 
( ৩) এগ্রিকলচর ( সৌশিংষ্টবগী ) ডিরেক্টর : 

( ক ) অফ মরু শজিল্পবা অমসুং থোকহনা । 
( খ) মেনুওর (হার) অমসুং ২ টিলাইজর ( লৈহাও চেনহরবা পােচ। পিজি । 
( গ ) লমহাংদা লৌ নীন । 


গ্রাম সেবক 


৫ 


ii 


( ঘ ) পন -থিংবা অমসুং লৈহাও ভাকুনগী অবক । 
(ঙ ) উহৈ হৈ । 
( চ) চাওখংপা মওংগী লো - মউ । 
( ছ ) হমিংথােই মােকপা । 

( ফোর্মাগী -১০ ( খ ) দ য়াওরিবা ) । 


কিসরি ( ৪ মােপ ) 


( 3) ডিপুটি কম্মিশনার 

( ফিসরি ) 
(C ) চিহ্ন মেডিকেল অফিসার 

( শ সন ) 


( এ) প্রুভ কতল ( ফংলবা শা শন ) । 
(বি ) ডাইরিইং ( সঙ্গেীমগী থবক ) প্রোফোর্মাগী 

নম্বর ৯ ( ক ) 
(মি ) পােলত্রি ( উচেক মােকপ ) 
( ডি ) পিজেরিজ ( ওকনচিংবা মােকপা ) 

প্রােফোমাগী : ( ক ) অমসুং ১ • ( গ) 


( ৬ ) কো - ওপেয়েটিভ সােসাইটিগী 

রেজিষ্ট্রার 


( 3) লোকেল ডিভেলোপমেন্ট বাের্ড 
(৮ ) স্কুল ইন্সপেক্টর 
( ১ ) চিফ মেডিকেল অফিসার 


( এ) কো - ওপেৰেটিভ সােসাইটি । 
(বি ) ডাইরিইং (শলোমগী থবক ) ফোর্মাগী ৯ (বি ) 
খুনগী লম্বী খাে । 
এডুকেসন ( লাইৱিক লাইশু অম্বা ) । 
হেলথ অমসু; সেনিটেসন হকচাং না যেনা বগী মং 
মেটারনিতি সেণ্টর ( অপা পােকপগী খুদো চাবা মফম 

ও ) 
ডিস্পেন্সৰিজ ( 

(ডাক্তর খানা ) । 
খাদি । 
ভিলেজ রেষ্ট । 


( ১০ ) চিফ মেডিকেল অফিসার 
( ১১ ) ইন্দষ্ট্রিগী ডিবেক্টর 
( ১২) ফোরেষ্ট অফিসার 


:: 


১১। তহশীল অমসুং সব- ডিভিসনগী প্লাঃ – ত শীল । সব -ডি তন হাসবা ৱহয়শিং অসিনা দুকুম 
অসিগ। দমক্তদি মােগা তহশীল অমসুং সব- 

ডিন, এটি খনগনি । 


। ইম্ফাল ইষ্ট তহশীল । 
২। ইম্ফাল ওয়েষ্ট 
| থে বাল 
। বিষ্ণুপুর 
৫। সদর (হিল) সব - ডিভিশন । 
৬। উল 
৭। চুড়াচান্দপুর 
৮। জিরিম 
১। মেংলাে ; 


, 


12 


মানা 


এস : 


১২ : মতম অরে : •• 

( ১) প্রােফোর্থ অগি ছাপ তৌরবা মতুংদা ডিভেলোপমেন্ট ডিপার্টমেন্টশিং , ডিপুটি কমিশনার, এস 
ডি : সি :; অমসুং এস ডি ও শিংদা আগষ্টকী তাং ২৫ দা য়েছােৱনি - টাইপ ন কোপা খরদি হায়না 
শােক ১৯৫৫ গী জুলাই তাং ১৫ দা ডিভেলােপমেন্ট ডিপার্টমেন্টশিং যেকেলগনি । মৈতৈলেন অমসুং 
ইংরেজী লোন অনিমা য়েথােকনবা মতিকচাশ কোপী কয়ামুক নমধােকনি । ভিলেজ কমিটি খুদিংমকনা কোপা 
২২ ফংগনি । 

( ২ ) ডিভেলোপমেন্ট ডিপার্টমেন্ট পুরিবা অফিসারশি না মথী ৪ শুবা পপ (পার ) গা মতুংইন্না 
তহশীল । সব - ডিভিসনগী খুদিংমগী খুঙ্গং কয়ামরুন নহুংশিবা ওইনা খনগংলগা মানা শেমফম 
থােক বিষয়শিংগী তহশীল অমসুং জিলা তাগেট ( তী পাম) লেপ্ত, না শােক ১৯৫৫ গী সেপ্টেম্বর 
তাং ১৫ দা ডিপুটি কমিশনারদা খংকদবনি । 
( ৩) ছিল অমসুং তহশীল গী ফ্রেম ৱার্ক অনু ডিপুটি কমিশনার সেপ্টেম্বরগী ভং 

কমিশনার সেপ্টেম্বরগী তং ৩০ দা লােকেল 
অমসুং ভিলেজগী অফিসাবশিংদা খহনগদবনি । 

( ৪ ) জুলাই তারিখ ২০ দগী হোনা এস ডি সিঃ এস ডি ও: শিংনা পঞ্চায়েৎ লৈ এরিয়াগী ভিলেজ 
ডিভেলোপমেন্ট কমিটি শেদা হেগংকনি অমসুং সেপ্টেম্বর ব্যাগী ভারিখ ৩০ দা পুমলোই লােগনি । 
ভিঃ ওঃ/ এস: ডিঃ সি ; শি না জিল অমসুং তহশীলগা ফ্ৰেমৱৰ্ক অই ভিলেজ কমিটিশিং পিথগনি । থবক 
অসি ওক্টোবর বা তাং ১৫ দা লােইদৰনি । 

নভেম্বর পাগী তাং ১৫ দা ভিলেজ প্লান পুমনমক এসঃ ভি সি :/ এস: ভি : ও শিংদ । খাগলগা 
মখােয়না অমুক ভিলেজ প্লনশিং অদু চাংদমনগা অমসুং মুন্না য়েংলগা তহশীল সব- ডিভিসন প্লান শেমছুনা 
ডিপুটি কমিশনারদ । থগিংকদবনি । ডি ; সি : না শােক ১৯৫৫ ডিসেম্বর তা ১৫ দা ভ্রাপ্ত ডিক্ট প্লান 
( চাউরাকপ। মওং লেদুষ। জিলগী প্লান ) অধু তহশীল সৰ ডিভিসন প্লান লােইন ষ্টেট গােভর্ণমেণ্টত। 
থাগংকলবনি । অদুগা ডিভেলোপমেন্ট ডিপার্টমেন্টশিংনা মৰি লৈন শরু । কোপি থাগদবনি । 

( ৬ ) তহশীল / সব - ডিভিসন প্লান্দা ষ্টেট প্লনগী হাপফম থােকপা শরুকশিং অদু ভােঙান্না 
ডিভেলােপমেন্ট ডিপার্টমেন্টশিংনা ( মখােয় মখােয়না পফা থােকপা শরুক মখৈ ) জিলাগ গানশিং অদু 
স্টেট গােভমেন্ট অময় ডিপুটি কমিশনারদ । ডিসেম্বরগী তাং ৩৮; থাদোবদবনি । 

(৭) তহশীল সব-ডিভিসন প্লান্তি কমিটিশিংনা তহশীল/ সব -ভিভিসনগী প্লানশি অদু জায়ারিগী তা ১৫ । 
পবা লােইদুনা গদবনি । 

(৮ ) স্টেট প্লা নং কমিটিনা জিলাগী প্লান অদু জানুয়ারিগী তাং ৩১ দা খম্নগনি । 

(৯ ) ডিঃ সিঃ অমসুং এসঃ ডিঃ লিঃ / এস; ডি ; ও শিংনা মাংজৌননা মথজী পেয়া ( পপ ) ৭ 
হায় মতুই ত্রেং পিন শলংগদৰনি । 


( ৫ ) 


SECONDFIVEYEARPLAN—1956-1961. 

২৩চহিমাগী(১)প্লান-১৯৫৬-১৯৬১। 


GENERAL মেয়েল 


Panchayat 


Circle সকল 


৪} 


Tahsil:Subdivision 

হণলসন 


।••••- 


} 


NameoftheVillage भूलामिर 


Amin/ChairmanvillageAuthority. আমিতিনঅথরিটিচেয়ামেন 


Panchayatofficer.SubdeputyCollector/SubdivisionalOfficer. পক্ষাঅফিসার 

সবপেটিকালেক্টরসডিভিনেলএৰি ExtensionOfficer.BlockDevelopmentOfficer 
, এনি 
অফিসারব্রেকডিভেলপমেন্টঅফিসার 


VillageLevelWorker 


-- 


Population 


Aroa এবি 


LandunderCaltivation 
কৌ 
উরি 
মন 


LandunderIrrigation েতেলিবল 


LivestockPopulation ना-पनीमेर 


14 


LocalContribution, 


NameofScheme. 


NatureofGovernment 

assistance 
required 
. 
Foto 
971 
:: 
: 
I 


Remarts 
. 


***1999;6,90674FT2:1 


Ivillag Existing|TargetsasVillageopinion 
Position 
per 
Īlistrictjontepossible 

Frame#OI:..physical 
ols 

achievement. DATART 
East 
( 
ra 

8971 
foot 

attstudie Bastaa ( 

agar17:57 477)1 


fast 
so 
: 
I 


! 


: 
II 


Labour, 

970 
3211 


I.and 
. 
Material 
. 
Money 
. 
Tech-Material.Finad 
. 
GE 
. 
I7571 197!!nical. 

5571cial. 163,863 

6921 


1 


2 


сә 


6 


on 


os 


10 


11 


12 


1.Arna 
underimprove.)seeds •9*1**36ta07716781 

( 
39 
) 


-- 


(a)Paddy 


th)Wheat 


(c)Potato 


-- 


- 


--- 


(d)Pulses 


(e)Oilsone s 

mutt 


( 
f 
) 
Sugar- 
cane 


5 


lgVaiza 

চুগাৰু (b)Groundnut 

capota (i)Others 

HTC 


15 


LocalContributions 
. 


NameofSchemo. 


SatureofGovernment 

assistance 
required. সরকারপগবাতেংবংও। 


Remarks 
. 


ফ 
, 
মফগী 
:পা 
এ 
t 
। 


xsitingTar}tsavillageopinioti 
Position 
. 
I 
per 

Hiirinto 
the 
possible 

Fran.ckorh physical হেকিক 

achievement. লৈৰিবলিগী ঃ 

কে 
কিব 
। রাততর্গট। 

গদৰাগৰী (গংগােকমংলাবুং 

বক 


কি 


মষ্টি 
। 


হাগ 


-- 


Land. 


Material 


Labour. 

भदक ধুনা। 


Yatt 
rial 
. 
Mo 
: 
.ey 
. যাক। 

শে। 


Tech- 
Material.Finin nical. চাক 
। 

cial, 
( 
कि.कन् 

শেল। 


{ 


1 


১ 


০ 


০ 


10 


1 


2.Useofmanuresandfertilisers 

হাঅনতিলাইজরখিজিব 
(a) 
Green 
Manure 

পাদপী 
সে 
হার (b) 
Chemicalmanure 

কেমিক 
হার (c 
)Organic 
manure 

শুগনি 
হার 3.VillageIrrigationWorks 

ঈশিং 
বােগী 
ধব 


l 


(a)Cannels 


(i)Improvements 

গহনবগী 
চা (ii)Extensions 

শাংদোগীচ (b)Tanks 


(1) 
Improvements 

গৰগী 
চা (li)Extensions 

পাকােকপাতাগীচা 


16 


Nameof 
Sebere 
. 


Remarks 


ফিগী 
গমিং 
। 


ExistingTargetasVillageopinioiLocalContribtion. 

NatureofGovernment tosition.|perDistrict|onthepossible 

assistance 
required 
. Frameworkphysical 

এফফাগীমীনাঈগদামতে।সরকারদীক্ষাবেংমং। 

achievement. লৈরি 
। 
লিগীনে-| 
খুন্নামিথে। ফিব।|তার্গেটবাধবী 
(পপেরু 
রমনা 
খুংগী 
Labour 
, 
Land 
. 
Mat 
: 
rial 
Money 
, 

Techni-MaterialFinan বক। বকনয়। 
এটাক।শে।cal 

cial. তেকিকে।চাক। । 


ইয়াৰ 


. 


৪ 
। 


1 


|০ 


এ 


৩ 


10 


11 


18 


৪ 


৪ 


১ 


ত 


(c)Wolls 


-- 


( 
i 
) 
Ordinary 

চুমী (ü)Bore-wellsandArtesia. 

অহংকাঅমসুংজHেবাগুহা 


-- 


1.ReclamationofWasteland 

লহালোওধোপা 


-- 


(a)Areaofcultivablewaste 

lands 

লৌউয়াবাবলেএয়া b)AreatobeReclaimed 

লোকিনববাএরিয়া S.ContourBundingandSoilCon 

servation %ি 
অমঃনৈহাওদখলবান 


। 


(a)Area 
subject 
toerosion 

লৈহচেৰািলমগীএরিয়া 
( 
b 
) 
Area 
which 
seeds 
contour 

banding ৭খিগবলগীএয়। 


17 


Viliage 
opinio 


pos:ille 


Name 
of 
Scl.eme. 


Nacireof 
Government 

assistance 
required 
. 
मजकडना 
अमदावार 
| 


Remparts 


ExritingTargets 
asViliageopinio: 

LocalContribution 
. 
Position 
. 

per 

l istrict 
on 
the 

Frameworkphysical होम 

करप्रकारकोशैवारा 
भार। 
arhievement 
. 
i 
शिमला 
: 

alपरनाक 
विद बाद 

श्रानको (नारकामदा२७नमो 

Labour 
. 
Land 
.Material, मदड़)। 
ट। 

घ14. उन। 


Morey 
. 


रनिन 


Tech- 
Material.Firin. nical. 
धमाका 
cial 
. 

(पन् 


न। 


3 


5 


6 


10 


11 


19 


(c)AreaBlabletosandcasting 

লেভাইহানিনাসমসীএরিয়া 


Fruits 
: 


. 


(a)(i)Buddedl.laotstobe 

distributed 

রন।লে,তৌবাচার (ii)Seedlings 

এবিচার (b)Vegetables 

धवा.. (i)Areatobeincreased 

बामाक्षायाममनोनिता (ii)Iodigenous 

रोजानानाता (ili)Evolio 

भागौना 7.Improvedmethodsorcultiva 

tion 
: all1ोनो Implements 


LocalCon:ribution. 


MatureofGovernment 

:sistancerequired. सरकापना18 


Remarts. 


NameofScheme. 


कधीनानाभर। 


ramewr.. 


का 


Existing|Targets«Villageopicon Position.iperiistrictonslcpussi.le 

physic" 

Cinvument. मो.7801 
क्दिन 
। 

व:मकाको ARATबदादूध 

भारद)। 


शिकीका 


Lani.Maerial.Hoo; 


Tech 


. 


La 
our 
.| 

भनक 


251 


।सन् 


isl.rinas 

cial लम् 


|nical. 


13 


9 


11 


8 


7 


6 


5 


--- 


3 


.2 


- 


(8)Numbertobedistributed 

CHIER 


(b)Machinery(Tractors,Oi:. 

EigineseCol बरि.18151 विपिन) 


- 


S.Improvedcaitle: 

चावकृपा 


-- 


(a)Breedingfulls 


(b)Bufaloes 

. 


(c)Sheep 


(d)Gogis 


(0)Pigs 


9.Dairyina 

पोलोपक 


19 


LocalContribution 


Nameof 
Schere 
. 


Saturoof 
Government 

assistence 
required 
. 
मराजा 


Romants 


भारोमेगा 
पर 


शिौ 
पनि 
। 


Existing!TargetasVillageopinia osition,perDistrictthepos-ib!. 
Frame 
work 
.physical 

acbievement 
. बलिदा 

१नापी वित्र।।उपरको AR 

वसापरतो मक। 


Labour 
. 


। 


MaterialMoney.|Techni|MaterialFinan 

पत् cal 

cial. 
पन् 
। 


ना 


- 


4 


5 


6. 


10 


ta 
) 
i 
)1 
Ows 

पपी 


(i)Ruffaloes 

शा ( 
iiiG019 


(1) 
Marketingfacilitiesfor: 

जोबिनालोटा 


© 
Xi 
and 
milk 
produots 

पालो 
বােলা 
পােৎ 
, 


( 
* 
i 
! 
LOUDS 
for 
porobase 
d 

milchcattlo 


तामाबाद 10.Divelopmentofsubsidiers occupations,6.8.: 

वधी 
.101 


( 
a) 
l oaltry 


2 
) 


villa 


LocalContribution. 


NatureofGovernment 

isoistancerequired. मनकामनामश्राRTRRI 


Remarts. 


Name 
ofScbeme. 


करपात्रोऔगत्रपनम। 


ExistingTargetasVillageopipioa position.perDistrictonthepossible 

Famework.Pbysical মৌখিক 

achievement मनिता 
भिना 

दाआश्रीभयावही (नाएकाघबराधात्री परदः 

25. 


| 
मा 
. 


Labour. 


Land. 


Haterial 
. 
Yoner 
.. 

ल 
. 


Tecni 
.Setarial 
.Fidan CaL 

oial 
. का 
हाला 
लम 
। 


9 


7 


10 


स 


8 


3 


11 


(b)Beo-Keeping 

-र 
खास (c)Pigxeries 

पक्वान 


11.Plantingoftrees: 


(a)Fruit 


(b)TImberandFuel 

56:45 (0)Avenue 

नाबाम्नानावा 


12.Khadi: 

शापिउन) 


(a)Productionofvarn 

मरलासदा 


()Plantationoftreecotton 

महिनासोदा 


(c)Improvedcbarkha 


al 


LooalContribution. 


Namo 
ofScheme, 


NatureofGovernment 

assistance 
required. মানাতেং। 


Remarks 


নয়মাগীমীনালগৰমতে। 


কিশী 
। 


LxsitingTargetsasVillageopinion Position.iperDistrictonthepossible 

Frameworkphywical হোকি 

achierenent. 
লৈয়িমিলগাকম 
ফি 
। 

তার্গঃ 

Regmi 

। 


। 


পে। 


Labour 
.Land 
. 
Materia! 
Money.Tech-MaterialFinan. 
, 
। 

nical 
. 
না 
।cial. 
তেকে 
। 

বে 
। 


1 


ন 


6 


৪ 


৪ 


10 


|it 


= 


- - 


(d)Productiono cloth 

কিখােকন 
। (e)Facilitiesrequiredforpro 

daction 
and 
marketing 


-- 


রোগী 
চোর 


13.Co-operativeOrganisat on: 

কো 
- 
পেয়েত 
নাইজেসন: 


- 


-- 


! 

: 


(a)MarketingSocieties: 

পেওবেনসোসাইট: (i 
)Isthevillagecovered 

by 
a 
marketing 
Society 
গেৎ 
রোগী 
দেসাইটি 
অনা 

নিপু?? (ii)Areaserved 

সেস ইটনা 
কোন 
নম 
, 
( 
iii 
) 
Provision 
of 
Marketing 

fit:ance 
কা র 
কৌশলেগী 
শেম 
। 


== 


( 
ivi 
Provision 
of 
God 
. 
wns 

গুদামী 
মোবা 
। 


22 


LocalConiribution. 


Nature!Government 

insistancereqared. वकका९। 


Remarks 


NameofScheme. 


सबकानैन। 


ExistingTargetsavVillageopinion i osition. J Iili-:rict onthepossible 

Framework..physical ess 

achievement. नदिननौ-दू!नाराका विदा।गीत उभरनातक 

सभासदाभद्राका भदक। 

घटा 


जिनगी। 


-- 


श्दा। 


Lakour. 


Land.Materia .Mureza 

मन! 


TechWaterial.Finan! Pca!. 

cial . 

"ना 


काद 


अश्व। 


F 


-1 


11 


18 


5 


نت 


4 


- 


3 


1 


--!-- 


-- 


- 


(v)Processingactivities 

CMमासेवक 


-- 


-- 


(b)WeaversSocieties 

किमनलामा 


(i)Numberofwearerso! 

roll पषितहवाकोमाताकी 


(ii)Numberoflooms 


Throwshuirle 


। 


-Flyshuttle -गजब 


- 


-Loin -बारको 


-- 


[ 


(ii)Production 

लाबाद lin)WorkingCapital 

কয়বানীশেকেল 


--- 


23 


Existin 


LocalContribution. 


NameofScheme. 


Satureof 
Governmentfi; 

assistancerequired. Remarks. क.२९। 

भास 


गरमा 


Esistinz Tar:rtasl illageopinior l ositio .perini.ctonthepossible 

Fra:e...rk.physical s: 

achievement. न न .नि.नामक छन।।सासरनको 

।"मगनयाकी 


17 


मित्रोपनि। 


भद्रा 


1 nd 


Laboar. 

शरद 


" 


जन 


: 
5 द 
। 


Material!MoreyTechni.YatcriolFinan 

cial. कालत 


न 
। 


al 


:: 


( 
न् 
: 


11 


12 


5 


. 


1 


4 


- 


हो 


- 


-- 


- - 


- 


- 


ICE( reditSocieties 

(निशे (i)NumberofVillage corered 

न (ii)Populationserve! 

मामबागीकसरत 

शशिर (ii:)Loanissi:elduringthe 

yearendri30-6-55 ?".".::नाम 

वादभिवान (d)Multipurn.ACC-Ara:::: 

Societies: स्मदिनमानमा (i)Trpesofactivitiesrichi 

haveaspecialneedfor co-operativeorganisation inthe 
area. पत्रिकाकाजिमनाशेड य;विमावामपन्नपदको 


- 


-- 


-- 


-- 


. 


LocalContribution. 


SatureofGovernment 

Assistancerequired. সক রপীগCেংবা৭। 


Nameof 
Schere 
. 


Remarts 


একমগমশাপগবা। 


Ex.stinaTargetasVillageopinion position.purDistrictonthepossible 

Framework! physical হোক 

achievement ‘ন 
:হল য়ে, 
ধুসংগােপা 

বার্ক 
গেট 
।গবি {পেল 
মাফুংগী 
এক 


Meia Lavour,iLand.Va:erial.Jones.|Tecni.Mesarial.Fidan 
চাক 
। 
| 
নে 

cal. 

cial 
ওন 
। 

হেকি 
।। •ক। 

বে 
। 


1 


- 


? 


1 


। 


5 


6 


৪ 


10 


11 


1? 


-- 


•- 


- - 


। 


( 
ii 
) 
Distance 
from 
the 
nerest 

marketing 
ceutre 

পুৱাহাগ 
বন্দেগী 
অৰপণ (iii)People scontributionto 

share 
capital 

Foralargesizedpri marymuliipurpose 
society 
covering 
a 
group oivillagestheminimum people scontributiontico sharecapital 
isRs. 10,000/—Government waycontributeasuu stantialamount.What partoftherequired people scontributioncan thepeop.eofthevillage contribute?) সােমাগীতোপ্রতি 


= = 


T 


--। 


L 


( 
চৌবা 
গং 
করান 
।শ এইমারিএপসগী 

ক্তি 
এনা 
বা 
লুপা 
। ১০••-পুখোকন। মানৰনেনমানামতে 
পিয়াই 
। 
এ 
পুক যাপাশীলায়। নাগুলোআগে:) 


25 


LocalContribution. 


- 


NatureofGovernment 

assistance 
required 
. 
17 
*709 
;T. 
131 


NameofCleme 


Remarks 
. 


179*947sat977 


ExsitingTargetsas Villageopinion Position.perllistrictonthe 

possible 
Frame 
work.physical s 

achievement. 
पता 
हिमानीलम 

talNE 
4 
. (p**<TETETgranquan 

7) 


*ORIE 


Labour 
. 


Land 
.Material 
. 

Money 
. 
7,1 
95 
$ 
1 


Tech.Material.;Finan nical 

5571cial, किम 

cm 


2 


5 


6 


co 


10 


11 


-H 


(iv)Totalworkingcapital 

apdmerbershipofexis tingcoor:perativesocie 
tie 
; 
of 
all 
iy 
pes 

Stara 
-en 
CORES 
( 
FX7k 
; 
ayans 

(TunSIA693% (i)Numberof 

existing 
Mult 
purpose 

200etics proposinganalemalioa gaturalcica sgtsama •কো-পেটভসোসাই 


- 


fort 


--- 


(vi)Their total 

working capital 

atto 
unaal 
CIANI (vii)TheirTotalmember:hip অপু 

of 
1 le)Co-operativeFarmingso 

cieties 
: এন্টিবগীকো 
-পরে 
সােসাইটি (i)Better!armingsocieties 

তোলোউগীসােসাইটি 


} 


1 


26 


NameofScheme, 


Remarks 


त्रिी 
पनि 


Existing|TargetsasVillagoopinion 

LocalContribution. 

NatureofGovernment Position.IperDistrictonthepossible 

assistance 
required. Framework. physical 

मकरसतोनानावजार होक 

मडावनामात्रगरकर। 
achievement. नदिया।नागो-नागका 

बारउद उपनापनको (स्पनपत्रा 

Labour.I.and.Material.,Money.!Tech-Material.,Fir 
भवा 
) 
। 
छ 
। 

का 
सम् |nical. 

काका 
। 

सिन्। 

I 


cial 


3 


6 


४ 


10 


11 


18 


1 


-Numberofsocioties 

मामाकोगिर 


-areatohecorered 

बजिन 


-Totworkingcapital required পুৰচংগাকারাগী 


T 


. 


-- 


-Totalpeople scontri bution 
towards 
working capital জানাগুলােপেনেপা অপু -Numberoftenants! ownersaffected 

(गोमाग/ 
लोलोनि dilTasatfarmingsocie. ties 

वोगावनियो:मामा -Numberofsooietics 

लामात्रगरि 


--Areetobecovered 

पवित 


. 


27 


LocalContribution. 


NameofScherr.e. 


Nature 
of 
Government 

assi- 
tancerequired 
. 
पत्रकावनामनात२९ 
। 


Romarts. 


मक्यकोनममताबर 


मित्र 


ExistingTargetsasvillageopinio Position.perDistrictjothepos-ible 

|Framework.physical কে 

achievement. नदिवा 
मकर 

सनाभाराभाका 

क्षवः 
।ब 

प्रसाद नसभाप्रश्नपत्रो मन)। 

घ 


- 


Labour. 

भनक 


I.and 
Material 
. 
Money 

25 
,का( 
नन्। 


. 


Techni.Watcrial 
Finan cal 

cial. माकन 

लन्। 


मना 
। 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


. 


Totalworking 
capita required मागायो পু।শেপে -Totalpeople srontri 
bution towards workingcapital बागलागे পূনব 
Number 
of 
tepants 
/ ownersaffected. 

लोमान 
31 
/ 
नोलो 
गरि (UI) 
Joint 
farming 

लियामानोख्दा 


-No 
. 
of 
societies 

लामशिनोनित 
Total 
area 
proposed 
for 
consolidation भूमिननानोकरी 
Cost 
of 
consolidarios 
and 
land 
improvement 
लोय 
निवार 
बनवा 
सामना 


28 


LocalContribution. 


Home 
of 
Schema 


NatureofGovernment 

Assistancerequired मागबनानाARRI 


Remarks 


EndstingTargetsasVillagoopinion position.perDistriotonthepossible 

Framework.physical शोषिक 

achievement |नाराका 

सामागे (मारना 


परवमनीगेनामात्रामापास 


सिको 
गरि 
। 


Labour. 


Land.MaterialMoney./Techni-t 
ना 
। 
कार 
। 
लन् 
। 

cal 
हिम् 


arial.Fimo 

cial. 
कारा 


10 


11 


Total 
working 
capital required रनाकारखानाबनून 


-- 


--- 
Total 
peoples 
conari 
. 
bation 
towards 
working carital 

शामिना 
ना 
भूना ( 
- 
Number 
of 
owners 

atc.affected কানুসৰালৌপুচি 

अभिः (iv)Co!lectivefarming 

सनकी 
कार 
( 
लो 


-- 


. 


-- 


-No.ofsocieties लमीर 


1 


-Totalareacovered 


-- 


-Totalartstobere claimed मैनाग 
लोग 
बावरा पदिन 


29 


ErsitingTargetsasVillageopinion 


LocalCoatribution. 


possible 


NatureofBorerntent 

assistarcerequired. मनकामनावाकार: 


Remarks. 


Name 
of 
Selcome 
, 


पायकरतोकागानागर। 


मित्रो 
बलि 


Position. 

per 

Districtonthe 

Framework..physical होस 

Iachievement. 
मजिवा 
!हिना 
लावला 
स्विध पारसहामनापनको 
( 
न 

दिनकी 

२०॥ 


Lahour. 


Land. 


Material 


| 
Morey 
. 


जनक) 


Tech-Material.!Finin nical. 

cial. एक्सिन 


घ 
64 


एका 
। 


2 


5 


6 


7 


8 


11 


9 


10 


13 


। 


- 


- 


। 


- 


Totalworkingcapital required 

भनया जवान 
-Total 
people s 
contri 

bujion 
towards 
wor 
king 
capital 

निना 
ना 
भूनत (मन -Totalcostofreclama 
tion 

andlandim rruvement ( 
नोवो 
बचन 
CM कियाउन्दाल 
- 
Number 
of 
people affected. 

काकरनेपर 14.VillageCommunications: पन्त्रीनबोलर (i)VillageRoads 

बननौ (ii)Inter-t illageRoads 

शुनाएवनानौ 


- 


- 


- 


30 


. 


Localatribution, 


NameofScheme. 


Nature 
ofGoverament 

assistancerequired 
. 
मनवाबना 
अपनगर 
६७ 
। 


Renare 


Existing|TargetsasVillage 
opinion 
Position. 

perl istrictonthepossible Framework.physical 

achievement. माडगा 
नमें 
- 

भूधानका बतउग धनाभको (कताभद्रगमामात्र 


क्याकरना 
नाभया। 


विभो 
रि 
। 


शिवन 


La our 
. 


Land 
. 
Alaterial 
. 
Mouey 
. 


Materi 


15.क. 


- 


(न्। 


Terh 

nical. তেক্লিক 


Material,Finan धमाका।cial 

लन्। 


उनी 
। 


1 


2 


3 


6 


9 


10 


11 


18 


-- 


- 


६ 


a)Improvenient 

अपना1 (b)NewRoads 

बागनी 
लन 
( 
c 
) 
Colverts 
( 
upto 

20feet length 

समिर(२००नानाना) (diBridges 


-- 


- - 


15Education: 

नरेबिकनए: (AsNumberofchildrenofSchool 

going 
- 
age 

लगाडारापिर (b)Numberattendingschoolh: 

नवगनिदारि (c)Numberofschools: 


गर 


(d)Accomodation 


(1)Improvementofexisting 

अबिवलियन 


12 


Local 
Contribution 
. 


NameofScberce. 


Natur 
of 
Government 
assistance 
required 
. 

!R 
मद्रगना 
जाना 
ARI 


सयभाभीबोलनीनाया 
। 


चिसो 
पनि 
। 


ExistingTargetsasVillageopinior l osition.IperDistrictonthepossible 

Framework.physical लोजिक 

achievement. निविदा।किमो- युवानाका हव३।।बकामारवापक्षको 

{"शामनाभबनाजो 

पदद। 


Land 


Labour 
. 

भरका उश्ना। 


Material,Money,Techai-Katerial 

( 
पन् 
। 


महाका 


cal 


cial. 


1 


2 


5 


6 


: 


CO 


9 


10 


11 


18 


-- 


(ii 
)Provision 
fornew 

अनोबा 
भाव (iii)Playgroundandgarden 

मावदूरकरसकानाम (elEquipment 

भरनारे (0)AdultEducationCentres 

হনমতসেই (8)LibraryService 

নইৰে 
খৰ 16.Health 
and 
Sanitation: 

करवालोवर (a)DiseaseControl 

अनास ti) 
Epidemics( 
Smallpoxand 

Cholera 
) बनानाचाहोग। 

हर1 MATण) 
( 
ii 
)Endemics 
(Malaria 
,Fi 

laria,Tuterculosis) 

बाबाकोबारमाहोगे अनि ) 


-- 


- 


. 


32 


NatureofGovernment 

assistancerequired. मनकामनामाया। 


Remarks 


NameofScheme 


सियो 
पनि। 


ExistingTargetsasVillageopinion 

LocalContribution. posision.PETDistrict.onthepossible Framework.physical 

कमपायोमौकानापर Rohievement. महिनाबिना 

नारक किन्दन।राति मलापनका (भागकरनाबमानौ 

Lanour 
. 

Land.Material 
.Voney. 
भरा न 

(जन। । 


Techni.Ma:erial./Finan cal. 

cial. 
किम् 
। 


लन्। 


10 


11 


7 


9 


6 


12 


4 


5 


, 


3 


1 


-- 


• -- 


- 


(b)EnvironmentalSanitation 

बूमनोकरीकरना (i)Drinkingwatersupply 

and 
drainage 

ধনসিংএবংইশ (11)Sanitation(Latrinis) 

पारपर (0)MaternityandChildHealth मौलानदीबरसीपना (i)SkilledMaternityCeatres 

और.जानवोनोबनावदा 


- 


- 


-- 


.. 


a)Midwires 

विदारक b)Dhals 

पारेको (d)Dispensaries 


17.VillageIndustries 

एलोनाकोपद (a)Hand-poundingofriceetc. 

चूनालगेरना 


*13 


-- 


Remarks 


NameofScheme. 


Existing TargetsasVillage 

LocalContribution, 

MatureofGovernment Posit10 ), pxoplistrictonthepossib e, 

usistancerequired. ramewur s.physical1977Fasitona4771 

73773a1163:1513 achievemen. 90 
fost62 

Iw.-31 
izrai 

*Ito €255741fat (547:7447पद्रमा 

Lalour.Land.Material.Morey. TechY.aterial. Finan 
14711 

55;*!i1972!1941|nical. 

*5771cial 391! 

6. 


frafair 


terial! 


Vateriell 


1 


7 


10 


9 


3 


11 


6 


2 


3 


book 


1 


-- 


- 


-- 


(i)(balkiforricepounding, 

grindingofdeurand plus 5**IT91,3 5sayuta! 

ETTE (ii)Ficnowiny fan 

gaisaca (bDilcrushing 

ofte11 (i)Iniprovedghani 

124491.( (c)Sugarcanecru-bingandgus 

making STTsintofois(9541 íj:Improvedcrusher 

ফগান 
চুপকে (d)Saitmanifacturing 


-- 


1 


1 


7:7,1 


le)Learl:er-goodsmaking 

mtag 
Core 
- 71 
! 


34 


LocalContribution. 


NatureofGovernaient 

assistancerequired. मद्रकाबनाभीभावालय| 


Remarks. 


NameofScberce 


श्करकोबौनाअपनामगर। 


ExistingTargetsasVillageopinio Position.perDistrictonthepossible 

|Frameworkphysical बोकक 

achievement. निद्रा।पुन 

शुकासकता कवर।डाकेमाह इशारामनको 

(भगवाबसश्री 

पवन)। 


-- 


जियोपनि। 


Labour. 


Lund 


Material.Money. 

घटाकामन्. 


Techni. cal किन्। 


Material:Finan 

cial. काक। 

न। 


- - 


। 


12 


10 


9 


11 


8 


5 


5 


2 


3 


1 


(i)Pambooandcaneworks ६.अमरनानीलाया 

matmakingfrombamboo, caneandmore, ना..बरःब९४का 


-- 


- 


(5Potterri.c udingmanufac. 

tureoftricks,Tilesand 


pipes 
. 


6,कर1+1बम:.. 

1. (h)Limeburning 

सदना 


--- 


. 


- - 


(i)Placksınithy 

3 


. 


-- 


(j.Carpenter 

है:11 ()Charenal,firewoodcte. 

एकउपाय (1)Tailuring 


-- 


35 


NatureofGorennent 

assistarcerequired. 777ayo???:T::8; 


Rer Remarks |$39791 


NamoofScleme, 


ExsitingTargetsasVilageopinior 

LucalCootribucion Position. 

perIlistrictorthe 

positie Frameworkphysica! 

37:2857.g T:1 eli 

achievement.! Ifearg(Fi 31A *9ahozzaring 

3,917at (impo 

.धूर lahouri01.Material 

Money, 0467ais! 

(91301 


friusiki 


TechWateria:Finn 


- 


nai. 


Tech-Materia, 

2011 12f5a 


cial, (*: 


L 


* 


12 


9 


10) 


7 


8 


5 


6 


(m)Embroidery,knittingcro 

chetandneedlework. f*cora!(+61*31,gaustant 995:egal4771 


--- 


G.P,4./C-4,509. 


Imphali-PrintedandpublishedbytheSuperintendentGovernmentPressC.2/19-56. 


Manipur 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 60 - E - 19 


Imphal, Monday , February 20 , 1956 . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Order by the Chief Commissioner . 

NOTIFICATION 

Imphal, the 6th January , 1956 . .. 
No. J /16 /54. - The undermentioned Central Act published in the Gazette of 
India Extraordinary Part II Section I dated 21-12-55 is republished for general 
information . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 


THE APPROPRIATION (No. 4 ) ACT , 1955 

( 46 OF955 ) 


AN 


АСТ . 
to authorise paymont and appropriation of certain feather suna from and out of the Congo-" 

lidated Fund of India for the sh vice of the financial year 1955-56 , 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixth Yoar of the Republic of India as follows : 

Short titlo . 
1. This Act may be called the Appropriation . ( No. 4 ) Act, 1965 . 
2. From and out of the Consolidated Pond of India there may be paid and applied issue of Rs. 

15,25,12,000 
kums not exceeding those specified in column 3 of the Schedule aglounting in the 00 % of the 

consolidated 
aggregate to the sum of fiftoon ororos twenty - five lakhs and twelve thousand 
tuwards defraying the several charges which will come in course of payment during India for 
the financial year 1955-86 , in respect of the services specified in column 2 of the 

1955-56 , 
Schedulo . 
3. Tho vums suthorised to be paid and applied from and out of thu Consolidated 

Appropria . 

tiun , 
Fund of India by this Act shall be appropriated for the services and purposes expressed 
in the Sobedule in relation to the said year . 


the year 


TH SCIEDULE 
( See sections 2 and 8 ) 


3 


1 


Services and purposes 


Total 


No. 
of 


Sums not exceeding 
Voted by Parlia . 1.Charged on the 
ment 

Consolidated Fund 
Rs . 


Vote 


head 


Rs 


Miscellaneous Departments and Espod . 
diture under the Ministry of Commerce 
and Industry 


5,00,000 


5,00,000 


8,000 


18,000 


Aviation 


1956 
MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 20, 1956 . 


1 


-- 


eo 


1 


1 


Services and purposes 


Total 


No. 

of 
Vote 


Sums not exceeding 
Voted by Parlia- | Charged on the 
ment . 

Consolidated Fuad 


Re . 


Rs. 


1 


-- 


23,48,000 


29,48,000 


22 External Afairs 


37 


Miscellaneous Departments and Other 
Ezponditore under the Ministry of 
Finance 


6,000 


8,000 


21,85,000 


21,85,000 

1,27,000 
6,87,000 


1,27,000 
6,87,000 


... 


Pre -partition Payments 
46 | Ministry of Health 
65 Ministry of Irrigation and Power 
76 Ministry of Natural Resouroes and 

Sciontific Researoh 
82-A Exploration of Oil and Natural Gas 

85 | Ministry of Production 
90 Ministry of Rehabilitation ! 
81 | Expenditure on Displaced Persons 

Charged.Staff , Household and Allo 

wances of the President. 
120 Loans and Advances by the Central 

Government. 
131 Capital Oatlay of the Ministry of 
Production 

Total 


3,50,000 
11,76,000 
4,27,000 

2,93,000 
2,85,00,000 


8,80,000 
41,78,000 
4,27,000 

2,93,000 
2,85,00,000 


.. 


56,000 


56,000 


11,28,49,000 


11,28,49,000 


-In 


1,000 
15,02,58,000 


1,000 
15 , 25,12,000 


22,54,000 


1 


-- 


Imphal Perlated and published by the Sq.purimtuadeat Government Prear & . 282 /2010.06 , 


Manipur 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 61 - E - 20 


Imphal, Tuesday , February 21, 1956 . 


GOVERNMENT.OF MANIPUR . 
Orders by the Chiof Commissioner . 

NOTIFICATION. 

Imphal, the 6th January , 1956 . 
No. J / 15 /54. - The undermentioned Central Act published in the Gazette of 
India Extraordinary Part II Section I dated 21-17-55 is repablished for general 
information . 

A. K. Ray, 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur, 


. 


THE APPROPRIATION ( No. 5 ) 

ACT , 1955 
( 47 of 1955 ) 

AN 

ACT 
to provide for the authorisation of approprialinn of monrys out of the Consolidated Fund 

of India to meet the amounts Painel on certain services during the finansial y pint 
ended on the 3781 day of March , 1951, in excess if the amounix uuthurispit or 

granted for the said services , 
Bx it enacted by Parliament in the Sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows : 
1. This Act may be called the Appropriation (No. 5 ) Act, 1955 . 

. Short title . 
2. From and out of the Consolidate Fund of India , the sums specified in oolumn Issue of Rs. 
3 of the schedule amounting in the aggregate to the sum of four crores, thirty -one out of ihe 
lakhs and ninety -one thousand rupees shall be deemeil to have buen paid and appliou Consolidated 
to meet the amount spent for defraying the charges in re -pect of the services sprci- jadindo fret 
fied in column 2 of the Schedule during the financial year ended 0 :1 the 31st day Curtain 
of Meroh , 1951, in excess of the amounts authorised or gruntod for thuge Bevices for penditure 

for the year 
ended on 
the 31st 

Warch , 1981 , 
s. The sums deemed to have been paid and applied from and out of the Cua- Appropria- . 
solidated : Fond of India under this Act shall be appropriated , and shall be deemed 
to have been appropriated , for the services and purposes expresred in the Schedule 
in relation to the fannoial year ended on the 31st day of March , 1951 . 


that year . 


tion . 


SCHEDULE 
( 866 sections 2 and 3 ) 


3 


1 


2 


Excess 


No. of 


Services and purpoRGA 


Toto . 


Voted Portion . 


Charged Portion 


Total 


Rs. 


Rs . 

13,273 


8. Indian posts and Telegraphs Department . 
28A | Ministry without Portfolio 


3 . 
13,278 

1,097 


1,197 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 21, 1956. 


Excese 


No ; 

ot 
Vote" 


Services and purposes 


Voted Portion 


Oharged Portion 


Tatai 


Rs . 


Rs. 


6,384 


RB , 

6,384 
28,90,744 
28,88,199 
23,52,190 


28,80,744 
28,88,199 
83,52,190 

3,158 
42,729 
6,25,810 

832 


8,158 
42,729 


T 


. 


6,25,810 


882 


40 

Botanical Survey 
51 Agriculture 
5. Salt 
.84 Miscellaneons Departments 
85 Currency 
69 Other Civil Works 
74 Expenditare on Displaced Persons 
78 Defenou Borvioer Non - effectivo . 
80 | Miscellaneous Adjustments between 

the 
Union and the State Governments 
82 Civil Defepne 

83 Pre -partition Payments 
89.A Vindbya Pradesh 

Charged - Interest on dobb , etc. 

Charged Union Public Service Commission 
96 Capital Outlay on Indian Posts and Tole 

graphs ( Not, met from Revenue ) 
99 | Indian Posts and Telegrapho -- Storos suspene . 
es ( Not met from Revenue ) 

Total 


47,864 

8,287 
58,62,358 

2,88,015. 


32,89,050 


47,884 

8,287 
91,61,408 

2,83,049 
1,04,40,054 


1,04,40,054 

43,0.12 


43,012 


30,79,935 


30,79,935 


1,13,72,975 


1,13,72,975 
2,93,58,892 


... 


1,38 , $ 2,108 


4,31,91,000 


Imphis - Perlentang maited published by the"Sizeetatunident Government Prow 0.21 


Manipur WALL Gazette 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


Imphal, Wodnesday , February 22 , 1966 . 


CONTENTS 


1 


Lothapola imato , Poctiagh, Trnanfors, Powers, 

Letr and other personal gotiod , 
mit IL - Resolutions, Ragnlations, Orderi , Norih . 

cutions, Rales atc. 


Part III.- Ordern Notification , Ralar of 

the Government of ladin , 
Part IV .- Advertisements and Nations on to 


1 to 2 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR 


Order by the Chief Commissioner. 

Imphal, the 12th February, 1986 . 
“ No. FA /2 /84.PI..The Ohief Commissioner is pleased to grant Shri Suresh Chandra 
Burdhan , Govt. Advocata , Manipur oirn ,d leave for 22 days froma 27-12-58 to 17-1-1956 

der the Revised Leave Bulus, 1993 as liberalised from 1-2-1949 . 


T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


Imphal, the 14th February , 1956 . 
No. J/27 /55. - The Chief Commissioner is pleared to order that, till further ordman , 
Sbri 8. O. Bard ban , Govt. Advocate to the Govt. of Manipur should also böld addie 
tional charge of the post of Law Secretary created under Govt . of India . Ministry 
of Home Affairs lotter No. 18 /02/55 - Est.C , dated 20th Deceraber, 1958 . 


A. K , Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 


PART I , 


2 


Imphal, the 20th February , 1956 . 
No. R / 7 /54 9) /89 . Io continuation of the order issued under Notificati . Na 
B / 7 /64(9 )/81 dated the 21st October , 1956, the Chief Commissioner is planned to 
sanation the continuadoc of the post of voa temporary 8. D. O. ( Treasury ), fora 
period of ond your trura Ist Maroh , 1986 . 

The Aponditan lavalvnd will be met from tho sapotioned Baiget estimates.com 
the Deputy Commissionur , Maniper , for 1908-51. 

4. K. No , 
Chief Secretary to the Govte of Manipur. 


{ 


11 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 22 , 1986 


T 


NOTIFICATIONS. 

Shillong, the 9th February 1986 . 
No. TM / 10 /55 42. - Attention of all Treasury Officers in Assam , Manipur and Triparn . 
: invited to this office notification No. TM / 10465 / 8 dated the 3rd : June 65 regar 
đing submission of week y statements showing the transncti:: relatiag , to the Firod , 
Robabilitation and Supply Ministrio : of the Govt. of India.. It has, bwever, boen 
noticed that these statements are not being submitted regularly . The Tro.suiry Officer 

so, therefore , again requested to submit the weekly statumeats on the duo data 
Kvon if there are no transactions, the Treasury Officers should furnish wil .. 
maats on the due dates . 

8 . Similar weekly staternents shoull also be furnished separately in respect of 
transactions of the Department of Stationery aid t riuting of the Govt . of India 
as the sopanation of acounts fro :n uudit has teen given effect to in that departm . 
mont as well with effect from 1. 12. 50 . 

8. Pull partioulars regarding all items of receipts should be furnished in the 
statements mentioned above 18 go to enable the accounting authorities to clamsity 
the items correctly . 

H. P. Bhattacharjee , 
Assistant Accounts Offiosr. 


Shillong , the 16th February , 1986 . 
Subject :-Draft correction to the Central Govt. compilation of Troamry 

Rules vol. 1 . 
No. TM.14 /55 / 40. An advance copy of the draft correction to the Central Govt. 
compilation of Treasury Rules vol. I first edition ( Third Reprint ) is published below 

for information of all Treasury and sub-treasury officers and central Heads of 
: Departments. 

T. C. Bhattacharjoo , 
Assistant Accounts Officer. 


Draft correction to Central Treasury Rules vol. 1 first Edition ( third Reprint) 

No. 204. 
Pago 101 Rulo 305 . 

Dolote the words “ destroyed or " occuring in line 6 of this rule . 


-> 


h 


PART D 
NOTIFICATION 

Imphal, the 14th February , 1953. 
No. Elec :3 52 .--- Tho Notifioation issued by the Election Commission , India as pahliga 
and iu tho Gazette of India , Part It Section 3 is published for general information . 

NOTIFICATION 
No. 154/56 ( 24 ). In exercise of the powers .conforred by olau (b ) of rulo 
tha Rupre entation of the Po spla (Preparation of El-sctoral Rolla ) Rutes 1986 , the 
Blection Commission , in consultation with the Government of Mwaipat, baraby point. 
mintos Stri: V. s . Bundarara , Deyvity Commissiner , . Manipiik , - the Chile Electoral 
Omper for that State with effout from the 2nd January 1950 . 


w !, 


K. G. Singh , 
Anoth. Seoretary (MVT ) to the Govt. of 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 22 , 1966 . 


- 


NOTIFICATION 

Imphal, the 14th February , 1946 . 
No. Eloc /3/52. The following Notifiva jon . Nii, 429/24/66 dated 6-2-56 jebued by 
Election Commission , India is hereby republished for geral informati.n . 


NOTIFICATION 

Dated , the 6th February , 1956 . 
No. 429/24 56. - la exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of sertion 
32 uf the treptesentatio I. of tine People Act, 19 : 0 (XLIII of 19 :;0 ), the Election Cune 
mission , in consultation with the Central Govt. hereby desiguates bris. Gurburi 
Singh , Assistant Scrotary in te Hume and Development Department Manipur, to 
bu tue Electoral Registration Officer fus euch of the Council of slates ouwstituencien 
in the State of Mauipar : 

K. G. Singh , 
Asstt. Secretary (MVT) to the Govt . of Manipura 


Imphal, tbe 18tla February , 1958 . 
No. S /2 :53_- The following Order No. 6 dated 2sth January 1986 issued by the 
Goverument vf india , Ministry of Finanoo. (Reveuue Division ), New Delhi is republiebed 
fur general information . 

P. Bose , 
Asstt. Sooretary (Finanon ) 
to the Governmönt of Manipur . 


New Delhi, tl • 28th January , 1956 . 
No. 6 .-- In exercise of the powers conferred by olause (a) of sub- seotion (i) of 
sootiun 9 of the ludina Stamp sot , 18 14 ( Il of 18.19 ), the Central Government diere 
by romits to the extent of 76 % the duties chargeable under Schedule I to the said 
Aot , ou instruments by which properties in any l art C Stato in India are trans 
ferred by foreign Missions (Missivnaries ) to Indian Missions (Missionaries ). 


M. R. Ramacliandran , 
Under Sec.etary to the Govt. of India . 


5 


" Imphal, the 14th February , 1956 . 
No. K IN -63/55. - The fillowing Intler. No. 10( 9 )/ TM & P /56 dured the 1st Nov. 1968 
larged by the Givernment of India , Ministry of Commerce and Industry, New Delhi 
to published for general information . 

H. R. Siogh , 

Asstti Secretary (GIL ) to the Govt. of Manipar. 
Subject :-Coatenary of the Indian Patent nystoin . 
I am dirpoted to say that one bundred " Fonts will have pasand on 

the 28th 
Februnry , 1968, sinoh the first Indian Paleots Act (Act VI of 188A ) for the proteo 
tion and encouragement of inventions came into force. The Government of India 
hanno decided to celebrate the Centenary of the Patent nyatum in India in February 
mest. yoar. The celebration will be held in Caloutta and will commeude on the 
186k Foby , 1966 . 


. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEARUARY 29, 1986 


2. The Ranji Stadium et Calcutta has been tentatively selected to probable with 
for the exhibition . The programme will include an exhibition of patiented machion 
and astioles, registered designs and also pryduods of Indian manufaqbune, nympo 
sinu on patonta by industrialists, ruduaroh scholars, lawyers and patout agunt , sad 
the publiontion of a Souvenit . The Ministry of Commerce and Industry have primul 
• sub - Committee oomponad of their othoers looated in Caloutta and peppesenter 
of otbør Ministries to work out the details of the colebrations. 

8. Appliontions from private firnis - and individuals for space in the exhibition 
site , which will be rented out at Rs. 2)- par sp. ft . should reach the Controller 
of Patents and Designs, 214 , Lower Circular Road , Caloutta , 17 , by the Both Novem 
buv 1968. Arrangement, bare boen made to grant import facilities to oukibinon . 

It is proposed to publish in the Sourvenir articles of Indian and fonsigt 
patent law and praotice and other matters of interest to industrialists and invento 
Advertisements may be inserted in the Sourvenir ag rates approved by the Commission 
Watch are Rs . 140 % . for a full page Ro. 60 /- for x huf page and Ra. 30 / - for 
guarter page . 

5 . A broobure containing information and rules for the guidance of exbibitor 
to being issued shortly by the Controller of Patents and Designs, Calcutta . 

6 . The Govt. of India will be gi stoful if you will give the contenary celebra 
tops the widest possible publicity in your btate and also intimate to the Controller 
of Patents and Designs, the number of copies of the brochure required by you for 
Ohribution . Persons desirous of participating in the exhibition or inserting advertise 
betonts in the Souvenir or contributing articles for inclusion in the Souvenir , normy 
bo adrised to communioate immediately to the Controller of Patents and Danishment 
214, L xwler Circular Road , Caloutta , 17 . 


- Copy of letter No. 1 / 112 /19 /68-PU dated the 22nd Doo. 1058 from the Ofilosr 
to -Charge Indian Patents Centenary Oslebration , Cloutta . 

Kindly refer to your lotter No K /10-63/68 dared the sth Dec. 1965 . 
8. Due to unforeseen circumstances , we have been compalled to change the . 
me and soope of the propoved Patents Centenary Exhibitivn . The Exhibition 
will now be held in the premises of the Patent Office at 214 , Lower Clcaler Romain 
Dalgatta-17, commencing on the 28th Feby. 1966 , and will be confined to the din 
play of models of patented machines and articles , registered designs, posters, obusta 
and graphs. No fees will be charged from the exhibitors who desire to exhibit 
their modela 

3. Under the viroumstances the information booklet originally propored is of no 
are and is not being sout to you . 


No 
1 : 


PART 1 

Imphal, the 18th February . 1956 . 
PROGRAMME FOR PAYMENT OF AR.M. COMPENSATIO 

BISHBNLUR L AHSİL , 
Name al villago . 

N ) , of Cases 

Data of payment 
Yamam Khupow & Keicou . 

Plad , hard , 246 , esth The 
28th & 20th Takeuary , en 

W. Couradits Single 
Bub -Doputy Dotood film ) 

Chont . 

ogle , Itaal 


MANIPUR GAZETOR , FEBRUARY 24 , 1956. 


TENDER NOTICE . 

Ihubal, the l st February , 1906 . 
Buled tenders are invited for supply of the full will furniture for use of the 

bilitation Department Mnapur. T he closing dato of the lenderă 18 1-3-1998 
po 11-4 , A., 4. avd fway, will be opened befura ita , trudoters va the meme day 
The rate should be quoted for each ittim of furniture . The underwigrid ta not 
to rooept the lowerti cor my tender . Doiniled 

Dowiled in orm tiou reg eding de-siga 
they be obtained frum D. Ci s utlice . 

1. Ofhoe tmblo Quvered witb dexine. Size 8 3 x 2 
2. Goud type oftio obair . 
Ad0-41 Wast.do. Tatilu . . $ 
Cuna , sentod , I. Biok Chuir . 
kimirab with shelvos 

Size 8 X 8 x 1 } without oornion . 
6. Stout 
N. B. - All items should be made of well sonsoned Uningthou , wood 

H. M. Řry, 

Robabilitation Officer 
for Deputy Commissionat , monipha. 


8 . 


+ 


+ 


X 


Imphal, the 7th February , 1986 . 
Bouled tenders for the supply of each of the following groups of articles reparately 
in vftod for Boriculitral Farm under the Industrious Ise purttaent, Manipur. Trn 

will be prosived by the under signed upto 1 p.m. of 30.2.56 and the daman 
will be opened bolore the tender : s8 on the same dato. 
Group A. I. 450 bundles of dry atraut « f.5 ft . circumference . 

II . 88 mayods af fire wood ( Anbi). 
Group B. I. Chandraki phul koyds, @ Rs..............per 100 yde, 

II. Reuring Truys. B2 dia , 66 No. @ Rs............. each . 
Byoonpful . tenderers will have to deliver the articles within 7 days from the date 
of signing agreement. 

U. M. Singh , 
Director of 11.dustries , Manipur . 


Impbal, the 16th February , 1956 . 
Boaled Tenden aro inv.tod from registered contractors upto 3-3 ) P. M. on 23.2 1936 
ind aball be opened ou the same day ml P. M. fur thy fo.lowing works. 
Particulars . 

Approximate Earnest lim fuit 
No. 

00wt . 

moirey . completiva 
84 , free printing tulkmes llund 
9-8 . milte ( Collection of Chips 
And we fico painting ) 

19,156 / 480 / 

month 
Construction of Hand Master s 
Ruan * , ut Indubi.. 

13,881/ 348 / 6 ,mophe 
hiweling Tiddim Road 50-63 
miton . 

17,189 . 

4 * y/ 

mom 
de Dieuind plans and specifications but be seen in the offbe of the undergrond 
on may working the within nuttions become Darder Forms online ben bud from the otion 
ndoasigaal payment of ko , 1 / - wach . 

E. Kristain 

Executire koginder , 
Bighway . Division , P. W. D. Maaigut. 


: 


{ 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 22, 1986 , 


NOTICE NO. ME ( M ) 
Imphal, the 9th February , 1966 . 

Final Publication of Yunicipal Rolls . 
It is horoby notified for general intormation that tho oleotoral alla finestra 
Impbal Municipal election have been published under Rule 16 ( 2 ) of the " Holow . tom.tw 
Election of Members of Munisipul Buards in Manipur " and may be iaspoobed with 
in the Election Offios or in the Town Fund Office during office hour . 


.. 


NOTICE NO. ME (L ) 

Imphal, the 9th February, 1956 . 
Notice is hereby giroulated under Rule 19 ( 1) of the Municipal Election Rule 
fur the iufurmation of the publio that candidates desiring to stand in the front 
ensuing Iuphu Municipal election should submit their Nomination Papers to the 
andersigned on or before the 1st March , 1956 within the hours 11 m . m to 8pm . 
on all working days . The number of ouodidates to be elected by the voters of each 
Ward is ne under : 
Ward No. I 

2 Sheets . 
II 
III 

3 
TV 
V 

2 
Nomin ition Papers may be had from thº Head Assistant, Election Office within 
Office bours ou all wo. king days. 


2 


3 


on 


NOTICE NO. ME ( ) 

Imphal, the Sth February 1956 . 
Nomination papers of all candidates for Election received under Rulo 19 ( 1) 
will be surut aised by the Migste ste nl Miron , 1.16 between burs of jo 
a . m . and 3 p . n . Candidates and and other interested persons may be present at 
the Scrutiny. 

T.C. Tiankbam 
Sr. E. A C. & legi- tinte i/ o Municipal Election , 

Imphal. 


NOTICE No. 17 /55-66. 

Implial, the 10th Fobruary, 1956 . 
Applications stating age , educational qu4lifications and previous experi noa, ote . 
ore invited fir one post of lower Division Assistant in thr scale of Rs. 40-8-30 
( EB ) -8-80 ( EB ) -4-101 / -and o le post of Cow -berd in the scale of Rs. 221-287- with 
anual D , À . in the Deparmint of Agri -ulturo , Manipur and will be received apto 
the 25th February , 1976 during office hi arr . 

The candidates who must be Indian citizing should be at least Matriculaton for 
the post of Lower Division Assistant . Preference will be given to those knowing 
jane or more local languages . The candidates are required to state in their appliontform 
whether thoy are married and if so whether they have more than one wife living 
and to furnish character certificates from at least two gazetted Ofiloan 


L. U. Singles 
For Director of Agrioultar , Montpus. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 22 , 1986 . 


NOTICE 

Imphal, the 30th January , 1968 . 
No. 27 /Ind/ 1/56 - t is hereby notified for general information that industrial units who 
reqnire iron and steel for, their industriel purpusou may please contact the undersigned 
with the requited Quotas stating the specifio purposes eto. within 25.2.56 . 


U. M. Singb , 
Director of Industries, Manipur. 


NOTICE NO . 18/84/84 . 

Imphal, the 8th February , 1986 . 
Applications are invited for a temporary teacher of the Keibi L. P. School in 
the scale of pay, Rs. 30-1-35 -EB -411/- p . m . with D A. Applications stating namo, full 
addre - 8 , qualifications, experieuce und number of living wives if married will be 
received by the undersigned on or before 23rd February , 1956. Candidates are 
required to attend the Office of the luspictor of Sobools . Manipur on 27th Fabruary , 
1956 with nedossary certificates for interviow . reterence will be given to the candi 
date who know one or more of local languages . 


NOTICE NO, ED / E / 27 /CDP 

Implial, the 14th February 1986. 
Applications stating educational qurlifications, age, previous exprience, homo ad . 
dress , and number of wives , if married . are invited for 10 additivnal posts of Pandits 
for the following schouls in the Thou al Commuuity Project in the scale of yey , 
Rs. 3!)- 40 / - p . m . with usual D. A. and will be received by the undersigued , during oftio . 
boars , upto the 29th February , 195 ;. 

The minimum qualification should he Matriculate but relaxating will be given 
if there are not Matriculates applicants. 

Candidates are required to attend the office of the undersigned for interview on 
1 , 3. 66 with necessidry certificates, 


NAME OF SCHOOLS, 
(!) Chandrakhong L. P. School , (2) Hankla J. P. School, (3) Arong L. P. School, 
( 4) GregLand L. P. Scbovi, (5 ) keirembikbong L. 1. School, (6 ) Phoubakchao Laiphan 
L. P. School, (7 ) Khangal: ok Makka Leikai L. P. School, (8 ) Kakohing . L umi L. P. 
Soboul, (9 ) Kakching Ivairi L. P. School, (10 ) Thoubal Girls L. P. Schoul, 


L. M. Singh , 
Inspector of Schols , Manipur. 


Imphal, the 16th Febrtiary , 1956 . 
No. 10 / JS 11 / 55-56 . - It is hereby notified for general inforipation that pursuint to 
Bootion , 20 ut the societies Registration Act XXI of 1830 , an Association under the 
name and style of " Soubungkhok Maning Khunja ) Areppa Committee " his been incor 
porated and numbered as 10 of 1955-56 dated 15th February , of the year one 
thousand nine hundred and fittý six Anno Domini. 

U. M. Singh , 

Registrar, 
Joint Stook Companies, Manipur. 


MINIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 2 


- 


NÖTT E SO. EDY 6/2/(1)/15. 


Imphal, the oth : Feliruary , 1986 
Application stating educatioual qualificatio118," age: previous experienos , baina 
And number of wit itt married . ure , nesvites for p mot . of teacher . But 
L. Pi Soboot: Tribák ) in the scale with my , Is. 80-1-33 EB -1 :40 :* ponte": 
D. A. and will be required by the antersigand during office hours : 0g or 

3. Wabuar 1956 . 
Çandidatos are required to attond the otion of the vaders gned for laterview 
bo 2nd Moroh , 1986 * with docosBirry out titicntes, 


! 


1 


onthe 


NOTICE No. ED / 1 /66 
en Maria di Imphal, the 8th February , 1956 , 
ti Applications stating Educational quzlitications , ago . previous experienge and number 

twing uwites if married are hired : fop - tw posta otasjstaut beaphery of 

should ribà an Antorgraduator and the other e Soignon gradnate for the phone 
Harga Bobook Thonbat ko: thaiBaoke-:of peyi Bil . 403-10480 -KB -8-190 -EB - 10-2604 
with D. Ar anok . Appliontions should be mabinetten to the .. undepsigaed on some 
29th February , 1986. Candidates are required to furnish two character oertificat 
guestted ofboon one of which must be attested by the sub -divisional Officer 
jurisdiction they live. Other things , being equal preference will be given to 
andidates who know one or more of looal languages , 

L. M. Singh , I stikli 
Inspector of Soboolo , Manipur . 


IL 


5 


. 


ring 


1 


1 


,, 


. 


PRESS NOTE : 

Imphal, the lath February , 1966. ..... 
CULTURAL SORULARSHIPS FOR YOUNG WORKERS. 
With pion to oncouraging young artistes and as an effort to promotor 
country the talents of these gifted workers which would otherwiring bor divortiod 
more romunrrative but nationally less ouriching channels ," the Government of India 
Instituted in : 968 a soberne awarding art: mire than 100 scholarships to young wor 
ker wbp Laye already peceived their busic , training and shown oyretouding printzise 

different felde ot outtural aptivity - excluding literature. Buon tho dne 

lie , dit ich drama and films. Soventy - two bobolarships havini iliendy bone awarded 
two batehon veta rich the year 1964 and 1968. Applicatioun are now invited for the 
samasining twenty- eight sobolarships availably tur award at present. 

The awards are open to Indian Dutionals of not be than 18 yoni and not more 
than 85 yeuth of age on 6. 3. 1956 , with sufficient general educatinn aud of ont 
standing prum in their cbomou feld The election will be made by the M. 
of Eduvution with the help of molectira Committee. Aftar selection, the pool 
be seguired to work ia . Egoognised institution, and the approved 
the Bold is the country , to by indiented by this nebolor and approved by the Christmas 
out of Indix , Eaobcholtship will be of the value of Rs. 200 /- per mantha 

ble for 

though so sweptional cuts the priod . 
extended by petos 
ppholtion ! 

home the best 
dasutionifor the Generalitat non maniparand should be 

Ednoution (" S " iviniow ) Govern 
monipt of application by the Whiskry Eduaction is Mindry the oth 


TH 


Copromdr 
Publik 


KUA UALETIK , FABLAB1 Ven avon , 


NOTICE 

Thoubs , the 10th February , 1980 
No. CP V - 14 *82.- Quotations am hereby invited from intending suppliers for 

supply of routerials for Blaoksmithy and Frundry , Onrpentry und weaving for 

of the Arts , Crafts an 1 Cottage Industrie- Tra ning-lum - l roduction Contre , Thubal 
und will be received by the undursiguent up to the 28th Feb., 1966, kato af euch 
article sboali be quoted both in words and figures tulputiculars and list of 
materials tou by supplied my bs band fro the superintandout of tne ab vo Training 
Centre , 

K. L Singka , 
Project Executive Officer, Manipur. 


Imphal, t ve 22nd February , 1966. 
Sealed tendors with wonted samples (Exopt in the cas + of fresh items and Browood 
pre invited for the mpply of rativas to the Maaipur Rifl “ during the port from 
1-3-56 to 19-3-57 both days inolosive . 

Separate teador for each grou ) Ho detailed bel , must reach the ( om ds ı lant, 
anipar Rifles on or before 28th February , 1936 ;. tenders for individual itoins may 

offered but the Commandant is not bound to discept thom . 

The secoossful tonderer or banderers will have to nigam contract dood 
push deponit As noted against enoh group of his /their onntract and ho /thoy mount 
ubide by the terms and conditions laid down in the tan lor antice a id the contract 
vod . The Government are not bound to accept the luwost or any tender , 


Groups . 


Items of Ration . 


Approximate qunntity 
required per month , 


Amount of cuoka 

Apr Urity . 


22 md . 
30 


600 / 


B 


Rice (ist ola 18 ) 
Paddy do 
A tta 
Dll 
Veg - table Ghoe (pure) 


38 
88 
12 


Grimm 


8 

8 
19 
16 Spers 
16 


1000 / 


Salt fordinary ) 
falt (Blak ) 
Sugar 
Zir » 
Dbania 
l urn a jo 
( Willies 
C dolinod Vilk 
TMH 
Vogrtuble (fresh ) mixed 


6 ) Tilie ( 14 02) 

3 mds. 
38 mds 
311 Sed & 
30 mnds . 


C. 


Go ger 


2014 


D. 


100 .. 


l otato 
Oni s 
Fire Wood 
Milk (Fresh ) 
Mont ur) SCAIS 
Prosh t ah ( s) fontib ) Fawl 
Chmroom ! 


15 


50 / 


in 


4 


puoh 


170 / - ono 


fr tha wbolo 


R. N. Singh , 
Cummundus, Manipar Rifs . 


10 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 09 , 1956. 


NOTICB NO . ED / E /1 / 1). 

Imphal, the 16th February , 1956 . 
Applications addressed to the Inspector of Schools , Manipur, stating educational 
qualifications, age, previous experience , home address , and number of wivan , if nærried , 
* are invited for a temporary post of teacher for the Awang Ngairangbano Singles to 

oher L P. Sobool in the Soale of pay, Rs. 30-40/ • p . m . with usual D. A. and will 
be received by him , during offion bours , upto the 1st March , 1966. The applicante 
tro required to attend the office of the Inspector of School , Manipur , for interview 
on the 6th March , 1956. Other things being equul preference will be given to the 
oandidate who knows ine or more of local Inngurges. The minimum qualification 
i . Matrioulate but relaxation may be given if there are not Matriculato applicantur 

L. M. Singb , 
Inspector of Schoula , Manipur . 


Imphal, the 16th February , 1956 . 
No. Tex /51/53 B.— The following letter No. 48 ( 19)-I.T./65 dated 25.1.58 from the 
Governmunt of Indir , Ministry of Finance ( Revenue Division ) New Delhi, is published 
for general information . 

R. K. Banubul Singh ; 
Addi.ional Assistant Secretary 

Finance to the Govt. of Manipur. 
Subject :--- Income Deduction from salariés during 1956-56 . Mistakes in the 

lustruotinos- Correction of 
I am directed to invite a reference to this Ministry s letter F. N. 48 ( 10 ).I.T ./ 58 
datr:d the 4th July 19,5 and to say that the currections indicated below may please 
bo made therein : 

(i) In Example -VilI, on page 10 , under the heads " riate8 (per rupee)" and 

" Iacolli - lux " for the words and figures " live " and " 351-8.0 " in the 3rd . 

line the words and figures “ three " and " 351-9.0 " shall be . substituted . 
( ii) In Exam..o IX . on page 12 , for the cnloulatine viven belos • tbe para 

graph The total income on which rento of income-tax and income- tax 
surcharza on account of insurance premis, provident fund cuntributions , 
etc, in admiss.l.le is limited to his 6,210 (one - fifth of Rs. 31,050 )" the 
fullowing calculations shall be substituted : 

Rebate 

Ru . 
" Income tax 5096-4 x 6210 

is equal to 

1,119-14-0 
28060 
Surcharge 254.13 x 6210 

do 

56-0-0 
28060 
Not tax payable : 
Incomo- tex 

8,978-8-0 . 
Surcharge 

198.18-0 . 
Income- tix and " income - tex 
surchargis to be dedooted from 
salary every month . 
Inøgne- tax 
Suroherg 


. 


:. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 22 , 1956. 


T 


PRESS NOTE 

No, cs : / 30 / 
Imphal, the 18th February , 1956 . 

GRANTS IN TEACHER EDUCATION , 
To be awarded by the Departmont of State in Co-operation with the United 
States Information and Educational Exchange Programme - 1955 . 

The United States Edvostion Foundation in Indi: sponsors a programme ia whiob 
16 Indian School Teachers are awarded grant and sent esoh year to the U. S. A. 
for · 6 months to study Amerioan Educational Methods and the Minipur G verament 
is to suggest 2 names for the same. Intending and expsrienced todehors and admi 
nistrators may apply for the said grant to the Assistant Secretary Education ) to 
the Goveroment of Manipur on or before the 25th February , 1956. Applicants shoald 
be under forty - five years of age. 

M. Gojendra Singh , 
Asstt. Sooretary (Edo ) to the Govt. of Manipur. 


নােটিশ । 


ইদান , ভাং ১৭ কেয়ামী ১৯৫৬ 
নং এসঃ চিঃ ওঃ /১১/ ৫ /২৩৭ /৪৫- এ পুক্ত খংহৰি হদি - ষ্টেট ট্রেডি এফিস হোলিগ 
হেী পয়লা নম্বর ফৌ লেী হোঅগনি । লৌগদ ফৌগ মমিজি- বুধীফে , চংলৈ , ফোরেল, ফেীহুম, 
নােইরাকে অমসুং কচংফৌ এসিনি । ফৌদি ফৌৱাৰ চেল , সৈখােৰ গৈনাং তৈদ অমসুং মশা শো 
এইগলবনি । 

১ লা নম্বর ফোগী মমলদি গভর্ণমেন্ট গুদামদ। থাবা বােড় মাওনা লা লুপ • ( সুপ মরি 
যখাই অনা ) নি । বেড় অমদা ফৌ মন ২ ( অন ) হাপদবনি । 

ষ্টেট ট্রেডিং অফিসনা লৌগদবা ফৌগী নমুন। ( সেম্পল ) অফিস থমজরে । ফৌ অৰীগে হায় 
লেমীশিনা অফিতা লাঙ্কনা সেম্পল য়েংবিগলবনি । কনাগু মীনা সেম্পলগ তা ফৌ পুবয়রুব 
ফে লৌজৱােই ( বিজেক্ট তেজগনি ) । 

অফি , অলিগ নোটিশ নং এল, টি , ও,/ ১১ / ৫ তাং ৩ ফেয়ারী ১৯৫৬ তা বাজার অহুম অহুমগী মপদ। 
নােমদা চেং মণ ২০০০ ষ্টেট ট্রেডিং অফিসনা সৌগনি হায়দুনা উৎলিবা দু চে ওইরবসু ফৌ ওইরবসু বিক 
গনি , অল্পদি ওইগা নো মদা পুরকইবা চেংগা ফৌগা অনিগী অপুনবা মশলা মণ ২০ দগী হেনৰ য়ারেই 
হেন মশং লৌজরােই । 
হাগ নােটশতাহাখিব। মওং এতে অতেদি অদুম সৈগনি । 

টি , কালাচাল সিংহ , 
টেট ট্রেডিং অফিসার, মনিপুর । 


Impbello Printed and published by into Superintuadeat Governmeas Promia O. 36 / 13--16 


Manipur 


2012 ! 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 63 - E -21 


Imphal, Friday February 24 , 1956 . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

NOTIFICATION . 

Imphal, the 23rd January 1956 . 
No. J 15 54. - The undermentioned Act , as published in the Gazette of India , 
jixtraordwry , l art II, Section I dated 30-12-55 is republished in the Manipur 
Gazette for general information . 

A. K. Riv , 

Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur, 
THE MANIPUR ( COURTS ) ACT, 1955 

| 56 of 1955 | 

AN 

ACT 
to proride frog the retablishment of a Judicirl. ( ommissioner s 

l ourt and olher Courts in Ilonipur . 
Be it enacted liy l arliament in the Sixth Year of the Republic 
of India as follows : 

Cl! APTER: 1 

PRELIMINARY . 
] . ( 1 ) This Act may be caWed the Manipur (Courte ) Act, 19.05 . 
( 2 ) It ritends to the whole of the State of Manipur , 

( 3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the Chief Commisjoner 
may , ly notification in the Official Gazette , appoint . 
2 . In this Act , unless the context otherwise requires , 

Definitions 
(i) " Chief Cominissioner " means the Chief Commissioner 
of Manipur ; 

( ii) " civil suit " includes every suit of a civil nature not 
expresrly or impliedly classed otherwise by any law for the time 
being in Corce ; 


Short title , 
extent and 
commence 
ment. 


( 2 ) 


( iii " Jistrict court" means the court of the district juilge 
and includes the court of the additional district judge ; 

(iv ) “ hill areas ” mean mic areas in the hill traits of the 
State of Manipur xu the Chief ( ojumlisjoner may , by notifica 
tion in the Official liavelle , rlerlare au lie hill areas ; 

(vi " small cause shit" means a suit of the lature creen 78 
ble lis a court of small ( 4.- 6 s under the Provincial Small Cause 
Court . Act , 1837 ; 

( vi) " Vislues in solation to a suit means the ainuunt or 
value of the subject matter if the suit . 


IX of 1887 


( ll " : 11 


COURT OF THE JUDICIAL COMMISSIONER . 


Establish 

3. There shall be established for the State of Manipur & court to 
lient of the 
Court of the be known as the Court of the Juicial Commissioner for Manipur 
J..icial ( om- which shall consi.t of ihe Judicial Commissiuner and the Addisional 
Jual ( i ministrour, 

if alt : 


isioner 


sioner. 


tho 


ottice 


Appoint 

4 ( 1 ) The Judicial Commissiunes god thor Additional Judicial 
onu 
: Commissioner , if any , shall by appointed lig , and shall bold . flice during 
drial ( um . 
jui - 510ner the pleasure uf , thar l’re - ident . 
and Antoiti 
ona Judicial (2 ) A person shall not lie appoined as Judicial Commissioner or 
l omnis 

uitional Jurlicia ! Commi- sir ner unless low is qualsfimid to love apprinner ! 

a Juage of a High Court 11.r coloring (? ) of article 217 of the 
Constitution or 118.1ess he was, immediately before the corn mencement 

of this Act , the Judic al Commissioner of Hangles . 
Canual 

5 On the vccurrence of : vic:a 3: ( V in ilier office . I the Jwir al com 
Viscancy in missioner , the Auditional Julie , as ) ( omni -sji ner, if any , or if there 
of the Judi 

is no Additional Judicial ( ominasjoner , the senior - munt district julge 
cial Commis 

aliull , pending the appointment of he Judicial (inicni, per , 

the Judicial Commisioner. 
Rank , pre 
cedence and 

6. The Judicial ( mmissioner shall have launch and precolonco 
responsibi 
lity of Judi- linore the addicional Juicial Comm ssioner & .. d shell le responsible 
ssioner . 

for the administra ion of, any generally for the distribution of bursinong 

in , the Court of the Judicial Commissioner . 
Exercise of 
jurisdiction 
by Judicial 

7. Subject to such orders as the Judicial Commissionor may make 
Commissio 

regards the distribution of business between hiinaelf and the 
per and 
Additional Additional Judicial Commissioner , the jurisdiction of the Court of 
Judicial the Judicial Commissioner may be excercised lay the Judicial Commis . 
Commission 

sioner or by the Additional Judicial Commissioner . 


art 


sioner , 


OY 


cial Counni 


an 


per . 


( 3 ) 


$ 10er 


cf 


19SIC 


: IN 


su 


certs . 


111 


Civil and 

Save as otherwise provided loy this Art or any other lair for the 
criminal 
jurisdiction time being in force , the Court of the Judicial Commissioner shall , 
of the ( o rt 
of the J din 

with reference to any civil or criminal piccreding under any law 
( : noun: s for the time being in forre in the State ol llavipur , by the big besl 

peruuterit alipea ) , Irvigion or reference . 

9 (i ) The Jillicjal Cr.minixriner my appoint 
Kegistrar 

a Registrar and 
ແ d ດ າ .s Filed rother ministerial Collier.ro mily loce neppurary fur i loe ardini 
terial 
officers 

nirnarson of juslice liy the Court of the Judicial Commissioner une 
the Court () 

for the exoriju of the powers and the performalire of the rutine 
the Jidvin porediterie ! or imposer 01 the Court by or 

anniler this Act in 
other law for tem 1111! 1 points in forci . 

( 2 ) The Jundirjal ( ..muissioner may makr rules fir dinle coating 
1o 1 z .. Plugi - trir stilo 117" And dations of a julicial, quasi - juic al 
11.011 jandard nalul 

lie links lil ; ariel the 

ministerial ollipops 
shall pieroge such qoristers and perform $ 110h duties of a quasi- juli 

rjal or non - judicial nature as the Judicial ( i mumisriinor HAY direct. 
s pelin in 

10 . !! The grueral sigorintendence and control of all courts 
de ce and 

in 11.0 Stute of Manipur wall vest in , una all liela Pirts will 
۱۳ : nute 

loro rule ili ato try the Cruirt of the Judicial ( opinii - sion.r. 
( ? ) esercise of the 

powers of general superintemmin sirop inil 
1.1111rl pintu 

lolit without prejudic . to this Suprality of such 
( old tofilia llicola ! Commi-Soller irr, 
1: ) all four rennirns 11. ! Hris conta ; 

16 ) lurert the transfer of any suit. prociceeding , qup or app ... ] 
iros Ally ordinite court to any other event of poquial Of Sil 
poes joi joris..joiion : 

rules ini) 

jälle venir ! wire tion ani ? 
for alor regulating practice and pricoming ref robo.siciliate courts : 
di pse.psibe 

firnis in which boobs , 

arlunints 
. : . !. 1, kopot by three wilirds of fil ) 

11. 1 ) 
Rekisins , 

Court ot Judicial Crinitsi . " [11 

hall 

lirli 
I woks . - register .. berikn and 

acounts as may be 116copesial ! für ilprograction 
count , iind 

of the bunu nece of the Court and shall iorward to the Che Cum 
to be hits 

missioner Fuch of these registers , bookt und MO: ( 11 ts und linol, state 
by the Judi 
cial Cun ments of the work done in the Court as way , from time to time , be 
puissioner . 

required by the Chief Commissioner . 

( 2 ) The Court of the Judicial Cominigsioner shall also comply 
whith such requisitions de may lie made by the Central Govern 
ment or the Chief Commissioner for certified copies of, or extracts 
from , the records of the 

Court of the Judicial Commissioner or any 
court subordinate thereto . 


11 it 


W1 - , 


il 


! 11a lino 


proscritor 


and 


را 
: 
1 
م 


Turis 


Tie 


1.pl 


blatcinetto 


( 1 ) 


nor . 


Aucli 


Prucedure of 12 Notwithisiauding 

anything contained in the Code of Civil v of 1908 . 
the Court of 

V of 1878 
the Judicial Procedure , 1908 , or the line of Criminal Procedure, 1898 , the Court 
Commissio 

of the Judicial Comminniones shall record model.ce and judgmente 
in inaruer and 

Jurererile sunde forms 10 boeilseed in proceedings 
Drefore it , is it may direct by rules may bay it with the function of the 
Chef ( !uminissjoner, 

13. (1 ) The Court of the Judicial Commissioner may , fuliguet to 
Admiosion 
and removal such rules 88 it may with the manction of the Chief Coin mirrjuner 
ol advocates , 
vakils and inake , adinit 

proper persons to be advocates, Pakilk and pleaders in 
ploaders. any court in the State of Manipur and may remove or any pen.l from 

practice on reaariselile cause any pry -011 mai mittand and inity Anthorina 
such advocater , vahils and pleadedi le pleine ul Intellis to plead su 
act for parties and acrour an ? piersons. 
( 2 ) Nos 

prel s n other than an : icole , vakil or pleculer shall be 
allowed so plead or tu art for parties illa alullsou i guraso exrep : thai. 
thly party may appeal , pledd 1 :1 act 

( 10 lis ( 1 }u laulf or on behilf uf 
is linther 

s authorinol. 
Court of the 

14 T . Court of the Judicial ( o missioner shall l» a court of 
Judicial 
Commisio locor and shall have all powera vif such could including the priwer lo 
ner to be a 

princil for contemptiliself . 
court of 
record , 


parly if 


Placa of 

15 

The Cint of the Judicial Cissirindes hell sit al Imphal or 
sitting of 
the Court of al such other places ng 

place“ , if any, 14 We Juicias ! ( e mwinyiones 
the Judicial may , with the approcciol of the Chief ( i umi: nister , Tru ! time.cetime , 
Connuussia 

appoint . 


nei . 


( WATU .*: 111 . 


SUBORDINATE COUETS 


16. In qildition to the Court of the Judicial Commissioner and the 
Classes of 
subordinate 

courts of omull aunes antallenbend under then l invincini Smal. Caue IX 0. 1887 . 
civil ouurts . Courth Act , 1887 , and the courts url . l.linha mer any other law for 

the time being in force , there shall be the following classes of civil 
courts in the Siate of Manipur, namely : 

( is the district court ; 
( ii ) the court of sulourdinato judge ; 

(iii ) the court of a munsiff : 
Provided that the conrt of a ruborilinate judge shall be established 
only with effect from such date as the Chief Commissioner may, by 
nutification in the Oficial Gazette , specify , 


; 


( 5 ) 


.. 


district 


17 
Civil dis 

( 1) l or the purdoges of this Chapter, the Chief Commissioner 
tricts and may , by notification in the Official Gazette , divide the State of 
district 
judges . 

Manipur into civil districts and sub -divisions , alter the limits or the 
nuinber of these districts and subdivisions and determine the headquar 
ters of cach district and sub -division . 

( 2 ) The Chief Commissioner shall , after confultation with the 
Judicial Commissioner, appoint as many persona as he thinks neces 
sary to be district judges and shall post one of there persons to each 
district as district juilge of that district : 

Provisert that the same person may , if the Chief Commissioner 
thinks fit , be appointed to be district judge of two or more districts . 

18 ( 1) When the business pending before the court of a district Additional 
judge requires the aid of an additional district judge for its speedy 

judges . 
disposal, the Chief Commissioner may , after consultation wish the 
Judicial Commissioner, appoint such number of additional district 
julgas as may be necessary . 

( 2 ) The ad.litional district judges so appointed shall discharge 
any of the fuctions of a districi, judge which the district judge inay 
assign to them and in the discharge of those functions they shall cser 
cise the same powers as the district judge . 

19. ( 1 ) The Chief Commissioner may , after consultation with Subordinate 
the Judicial Commissioner , fix the number of subordinate julges und judges and 

munsiffs . 
munsiſts in be appointed and if there is a vacancy in that number, 
may , kuloject to the rules , if any, made under sub -section (2 ), appoint 
such person as is noininated by the Juilicial Commissioner to the 
vacancy . 

( 2 ) The Chief Commissioner may , after consultation with the 
Judicial Commissioner, make rules as to the qualifications of persons 
to be appointed as fubordinate juges and inunriffs , 
20. The district court shall be the principal civil court of original District 

cout to be 
jurisdition in the district. 

principal 
civil court 
of original 

jurisdiction . 
21. Save as otherwise provided by any other law for the time Original 
being in force , the district court , shall , subject to the provisions of jurisdiotion 

of distriot 
V of 1908 . 

section 15 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 , have original jurisdio- courts. 
tion in all civil suits without limit as regards the value . 
22. The jurisdiction in original civil suits as regards the value Original 

jurisdiction 
to he exercieed by . subordinate judge or a munsiff shall be deter- of couris of 
mined by the Chief Commissioner in such manner as he thinks fit , subordinate 

judges and 
after consultation with the Judicial Commissioner : 

munsifts . 


( 1 ) 


Anall onuses 


ܘܐܐ 


Provider that in no care shall the jurisdiction of a munsiff be 

without limit . 
Local limits 

23 . ( 1 ) The local limits of tbe jurisdiction of the court of a sub 
of the juris- ordinate judge or a muuriff shall be fuch as the Chief (Commissioner 
diction of 
courts of may , by notification in the Official Gazette , detine . 
subordinate 
jud cs and 

( 2 ) When the Chief Commissioner porte a subordinate judge to 
munəifls . 

& district , the locul limits of the district shall , in the absence of any 
direction to the contrary , be the local limits of his jurisdiction . 

24. The Judicial Commissioner may, by notification in the Official 
jurisdiction Garette , confer within such lucal liinits as he thinks fit , npon any 

IX of 1887 . 
..ate judges district julge , subordinate julge or --iff , the jurisiliction of a 
and nunsiff s jugant of the court of small caures under the Provincial Small Carree 

Courts Act, 1887, for the trial of suite of the nature comizable by 
such couris upites , such valuar not “ xceeding live hundred rupeer , as 

thinks fit and may withdraw any jurisdiction su couforred 
Exercise by 

25. ( 1 ) The Judicial ( um missioner may , luy general or Apecial orilor , 
sal ordinate authorise any kuboremate julge or munsift to take cognizance of, or 
muinsiffs of any district judge to transfer to a subordinate judge or a munsill under 
jurisdiction bis administrative control, any proceeding or class of proveedings spe 
courts in 

cified in such ordor , unei 
certain pro 

XXXIX of 
ceedings . ( ) the Indian Sirocossion Act , 1:20 ; or 

1925 
( 1 ) the (suardians and Warn : Act, 1891 ; or 

VIII of 1890 , 

V of 1920 . 
(c ) the Provincial Ins Ivory Act, 1:20 . 
( 2 ) The district juilge may willraw any ruch proceeding taken 
cognizance of liy , or transferred to , a subordinale julg : or a munsiff 
and may either himselt dispose of them od 11111 - for it fur disposal to 
any other competent could ladder his ilininis rative control 

(3 ) Proceedings taken cgnizance of by , or liauferred to , & fubordi 
nale judge or a muusiffuder this Berol1011 - huld be disposed of by his 
subject to the rules applicable to like proceeuings when disposed of by 
the district judge : 

l rovided that an appeal froin an oriler of the monej I in any such 
proceedings shall lie to the district judge . 

( 4 ) An appeal from the order of the district judge on appeal from 
the order of a munrift under this section shall lie to tlie Court of the 
Julicial Commissioner if a further uppcal from the order of the 
district judge is allowed by the law for the time being in force. 

26. ( 1 ) The Chief Commissioner may , by order , fix a place or 
Place of 
sittings of places at which any court constituted 

under this Chapter is to be 
beld , 


1 


courtu . 


(7 ) 


27 . 


of 1908 . 


use 


courto . 


( 2 ) The place or places so fixed may be beyond the local limits of 
the jurisdiction of the court. 

( 3 ) Save an otherwise provided by an order under this section , 
3 court constituted under this Act may be held at any place within 
the local limits of its juriidiction . 

Subject to the general superintendence and control of the Administra , 
Court of the Judicial Commissioner , the district judge shall have of courts . 
administrative control over all the civil courte under this Chapter 
within the local limits of his jurisdiotion . 

Distriot 
28 . Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Civil judge s pow 
Procedure, 1908 , the district judge may, by written order , direct or to distri 
that any business cognizable by his court and the courts under 
his control shall be distributed among such courts , and in such 
manner , as he thinks fit : 

Provided that no direction issued apder this section shall em 
power any court to exercise any power and deal with any businons 
beyond the limits of its jurisdiction . 

29. Every court under this Chapter shall & seal of suola Serlo ol 
form and dimension as are prescribed by the Chief Commissiuner . 

30. (1) Ministerial officers of the district court shall bo appoin- Ministerial 
ted by the district judge. 

the courts . 
( 2 ) Ministerial officers of civil courts under the administrative 
control of tho district judge shall be appointed by the district judge. 

( 3 ) Every appointment under this section shall be subject to 
such rules as the Judicial Commissioner may make in this behalf . 

( 4 ) Any order passed by the distriot judge under this section 
khall be liable to be reversed or modified by the Judicial commis 
sioner. 
31. The district fudge may , with the previous ranotion of the Delegation 

of powers 
Judicial Commissioner , delegate to the judge of any court under 

of distriot 
his administrativo control all or any of the powers conferred on . Judges and 

district 
district judge by section 27 and section 28 of this Act and on a 

courts in 
district court by section 24 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 , certain 
to bo osercised by the judge in any specified portion of the dis 
triot subject to the control of tho distriot judge. 

32. Save as otherwise provided by any law for the time being Appeals 
in force , appeals from decrees or orders of courts exercising origi- nal decries. 
nal jurisdiction shall lie as follows : 

(a) from . dearse or order of a munsif in any suit and 
of a subordinato judge in suit the value of which does not 


V of 1908 . 


CLICK 


( 8 ) 


exceed five th : 11 : a : d rupec ., to olie conlrt of the district judge ; 
and 

(n ) in ill olier INS, to the count of the Judicial Com . 
minti, nes 


V of 1908 . 


33 . A scr:nd uppeal hasil lie to the , 1 ! rof 1 ly Juici:ul Corn . Appeal 

from 
missioner from an appellat: decoric or older mit is intric curt in 

Q : pallate 
any ground in wird it stamment s Y 0-821 ls under restinni 1: ( of the decrees. 
Code of Civil Pro0.11 . , 1:06 . 


V of 1908 . 


34 In addition to the portions Ciuifereel liyep ! 1.: 115 of ile Revisional 

Powers f 
Code of Civil Procur, 19.8 , the (soprt of live Judional Commis , the Court of 
sioner may, on : ; ; lin.11 . !!! ) in .1 , call four itin l ecrime of the Judicial 

Commis 
cata wlinh hogs lucern irroicle his civil art fubor linato for it and suver. 
in which to appeal lique in ii 

if the Cruirt of the Juiliciul 
Commissirelirer is it ofiileised . That illie is ali ini po stant question 
of 1:11 ( : !" ( liet . ? 

4116687111 puller fmilies se najvieratrend, the 
Court of the Jin..icial Commi-eguner may make Allehrrier in the 

as it thinks til : 


.ܢ.ܐ1 
ܐܢ 


Cse 


Provised that : 


ca 180 


( i) 110 application -21 : 11 lop r mista ! sing the expiration of 
ninety luys from the date of the deci · 11 in inspect of whirh 
the application is male rules the appi... ni sati - fies the Court 
of the Juicial Cromisrii ner til tre horel uitliiient 

for 
nut making application willojit that perio !, 

( ii ) on any such appol cation the Cut if the Julicial Com 
missjoner olimll not l evine live vjersion of the court below ax . 
cepit in ko far an such dorojnion in volsry foglion 

of law or 
custom in respicct if whicii tb .. appleration has been admitted ; 
and 
( vii) when 

alis ruch applications 

hier der 11 

admittari tho 
Court of the Judicial Commissioner shall , -ulj or to clauso (ii) 
of this provjeri, treat the matter of the application as if it wero 
an appeal. 

Explanation 1. - The question of pr colore ou not # quartion of 
law or curion within the 1920sning of this section . 

E.cplanation 2. - In computing to prived of limilation mentioned 
in clausc (i) of this durviso and in all other reports not herein 1x of 1908 . 
specified , the period of limitation of the application shall be 
Govornoil by the provisions of the lodion Limitation Act, 1908 . 


: 


( 9 ) 


i e 


is 


lu 


үхсаас 


ກໍາ 


or 


Court fees 35. (1 ) The court fres payable on applications to the Court of 
payao in 
applications the Judicial Commissioner for the exercise of its jirrisdiction unler 
för revision . fection 34. xhall be much as prescribed by the Chief Commis . 

ejoner in consul: a ! ion with the Judicin ! ( .mn Esioner 

( 2 ) If the Court of the judicial Commissioner , on an application 
in respect of whicle the couro fue pay: lile under rub -section (! ) has been 
peid , Neils asiile or noel ties ar oltcrre or order of th curt below or 
jemands the case for lovilor decision , the Court of the Juicial Com 
missioner may grant to the applicant a artitivate anthurising him to 
receive back from the collection of the district in whicule the court 
Below is sitnipil or fronto -12092 olleer other ils lle ( hiiof commissioner 
may anthriar. l.y lotilipution in the ( ) licial ( 1.2.714 , lhe full amount 
if such forintrt tre ol : 1 1 : at i les prefi 

Ilir ( init of the Judicial 
( !oministruger having regard in the circumstances of the case may 

Think fit . 
Ternporary 

36 . 

event of litli of district julge op of his beirg 
privrillet till perfurning lui: suntions lsy iilusen cititors Culle 
the office of 
district 

of his alo.eller : .0 ?) the rivil district Pili loy" . The additiunill district 
judge. 

jige, ii ani !. inn i ! int riet os ufruire to pro is the artilizimilial listrict 
juilge , tloro senior !!) 0. - t rulo linable julge , vi trie are may be, 
tler genios : 1177, ! :noritt in the listriot th : ll it e111 cliarde of the 
dintrict [ 11.7 virksl in !erruption of his ordinary jurisiction and 
bring so in curge sliall porrforinthe rurier of the district judge 
wich I Cup to, the filing of ruits and appreials , micriving pleadlings , 
execution of propeses , of wrils and the like , and shall 

be 
de- igratoi ils tie ardiliional 

the area: ional dintrict juriye or the subordinate judge 
op the musilf , as the man may be , 

may be , in large of the district and 
shall cortim inn ruch ohn19 until the ottice of the district judge 
hHilveren in sumei ly hum or ass- 1111. or lig iill ftirer duly apprinteil 

theretu . 
Dolcgation 

37. Any idistrici julge living beadınariei s arii proceeding on 
of fones dury to 

iho dineriet my delegato 10 the additional 
of district 
judges. ristrict judo , i tiny , or where there is -1.h additional district 

as the (41) 
jnego , 11 i 11 .. ! 11111er juige or , 

may be, tu & in unsiff 
at the beseley.c.6.d ., then power ut performing such duties vuuinera . 
found in Noli ni as may be emergent and s11h slicer shall be 
designated as the additional sintries juge or the subordinate judge or 

the minn pitf , in the case may be , in chili go of the leselynarier s . 
ſemporary 38. In the event of death , buspension or te in porary abronce of a 

subordinisto jo po oor : munsiff , the district juge may onipower any 
offoc 
of a subor- other subordina e judge or muusiff of the same civil Jistrict to continue 
ir munsift. the duties of the vacated court of the subordinato judge or munsiff either 


l elimin ) 


HV jolilce in 


VOLDcy in 


the 


( 10 ) 


at the place of such court or of his own court but in every such caso the 
registor and record of t ho court shall be kept distinct. 


oourts 


on 


the courts 
of such 


CHAP ER IV 
SUPPLEMENTAL AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
Power to 
confer pow . 

39 . ( 1 ) The Chief Commissionor after consultation with the 
ers of civil Judicial commissiuner nay , by notification in the Official Gazette , 
offoers in invest, by name or in virtue of office , any officor in the hill arens 
Hill Areas 
and proce 

with the powers of any civil court under this Act and upon such 
dure before investiture the provisions of this Act shall , so far as they can be 

made applicabile , apply to him a : if he were a judge of the court 
officers . 

with the powers of which he is invested.. 
( 2 ) 

Where the place at which the court of an officer invested 
with powers under rub -section ( 1) is to be held , has not been fixed 
under Rection 26 , the court may be bold at a ny place within the 
local limits of its jurisdiction . 

(3 ) The Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 , shall apply to all ruits V of 1908. 
and proceedings before the court of an officer inverted with powere 
under sub - section (1 ) subject to the following exceptions , namely : 

( a ) a defendant in a suit may , instead of filing a written 
statement, make an oral statement of his defence which shall be 
recorded by the court ; 

( b ) all applications by parties in any suit or proceeding may 
be made orally beforo the court ; 


( c) no appoa ranca , application or act in or to the court , re 
quired or authorised by law to be made of done by a party in auch 
court shall be made or done by a pleader (as defined in the Code V of 1908. 
of Civil Procedure, 1968 ) bave with the permission of the court ; 

( d ) it shall be sufficiont for the court to niake a memorandum 
of the substance of the evidence of any witness examined by it and 
it shall not be necessary for the court to take down evidence of any 
witness in writing at length unloss the court is , on the applica 
tion of any party or otherwise, satisfied that there is any special 
rouson for so doing . 


oder to 
make rules . 


Power of 

40. The Court of the Judicial Commissioner may make rules 
the Judicial consistent with this Act and any other law for the time being in force , 
Commisal 

providing for all or any of the following matters , namely : 

(a ) the supervision of all courto subordinate to the Court of 
the Judicial Commissionor and thoir inspection ; 


( 11 ) 


(b) the translation of any papers filed in the Court of the 
Judicial Commissioner and the preparation of paper . books for the 
hearing of appeals and the copying , typing or printing of any 
such papers or translations and the recovery from the persons at 
whore instance or on whose behalf papers are filed , all the stepen 
ses thereby incurred ; 

(c ) ho fees to be charged for processos issued by a civil 
court or loy any officer of any such court and the fee payable 
in any suit or proceeding . in any such court ly any party to 
flich suit or proceeding in rospect of the fees of the pleader of 
any other party to such suit or proceeding ; 

(d ) the manner in which the proceedings of civil conrts 
shall be kept and recorded , and the manner in which paper 
books for the hearing shall be prepared and the granting of 
copies ; 

( e) the various matters relating to the officers of the court ; 
( f) the persons to be permitted to act 88 

petition -writers 
in the court suborilinate theroto or act as pleaders clerks ; 

(g ) the issue of licenres to persons referred to in clause (1), 
the conduct of business by them and the scale of fees to be 
charged by them ; 

(h ) the authority hy which breaches of such rules shall be 

investigated and the penalty which may be imposed . 
Presiding 

41. (1 ) The presiding officer of a couri shall not try any suit , 
ofioers of 

proceeding or other case , or hear any appeal, to which he is a party 
courts pot 
to try suits or in which he is personally interested . 
and cases in 
which they 

(2 ) No presiding officer shall hear and appeal from any judg 
are interes- ment, decrce , sentence or order passed or made by himself . 
ted , 

( 3 ) Where any such suit, proceeding , care or appeal as is refer 
red to in sub -section (1 ) or sub -section (2 ) cuines bofore any such 
officer, he shall transmit forthwith the record of such suit , pro 
ceeding , care or appeul as the case may be , to the court to which 
he is immediately subordinate with the report of the circum tancus 
attending the reference . 

(4 ) The superior court may transfor the suit , proceeding , case 
or appeal either to itself or to any court unler its administrative 
control competent to decide it . 

42. ( 1) Where in any suit or proceeding , it is necessary for any 
Certain di 
Olsione tu be coort under this Act to decido any question regarding succession , 
according to inheritance, marriage or caste or any religious Urage or institu 
custom 
portona! tion , any custom ( if such there be) having the force of law , or 
lon , any personal law , governing the parties, or the property of the 


or 


ria ) 


unt 


parties to ench snit or proroplin mhull form the rule of decision 
except in so far 08 Buch rutom or persona ) law har , by legislativo 
edactmount . hein altpool obilichel. 
( 2 ) In CAGAR proviil . fo .: hy l; section 

( 1 ) or tiy any 
other 1* w for the tiirog being in : C.1, the court shall coide the 
ruit or proceeding according to justice , equity and gol conrrience . 
43. ( 1 ) Sulj ct ti 

ti the approval of the Chief Commissioner , the 
Julicial Commissioner hull poreogbe list or days to be olusarve.l 
in mach year as clo .. d holiday in the Court of the Judicial Cons 
nijepioner and the civil Colt“ arbor linate to th : t Cuart . 

( 2 ) Tl.e list of blindeye reall published in thre ( Finl 
Gazetta 


Holidays . 


01 


of 


- 


13 15 : (+8 : 01 


far an 


( 3 ) A Ji icial act lon- by & ( !" 11t on day specified in the list 
shall not bro invalid by rear n only sof its laring been done un 

that day . 
Pending 

44. ( 1 ) Any Aui , procuello , che appel jeni ! rug in * ciurt 
producdings . immrdiairly b.fore tlie MH : rila : Join .io ! shal, up in the 
c . mmeniemen : of this A .. tors dreid to 

b . 

to the 
cruri exercising under this ci jmid ction which (...rirsponds , 08 

may b , to the jurisdicion of th : couil in whiron the sure , 
proroeiing , Clee or apprl was pionline 
!! tirsporlart to which the 
fuit , pärireering , Care oor appoil is cremet tu li t n- ferre fliall 
proceed to try , hvør till ileto:rmine the initie if it had been 
pedding in that court . 
( 2 ) Any a ; pe :il forn a jardnient, 
A jazment, Her hintenee 

pirder 
passed or mind , hry 0.011rt and 

no. Appralei 

inginant Le for the 
codimencement of this 

ilci shull , F11c Cu 111: :( cement , lie in 
the court exercising clorhoog tije Tot juridiction which curre - ponda , 
Ah for AB may br , to the jurirrtition of the condit Wiliich Fucli 
appanl would have lain if this Act hand op been passed and had 
not come into force . 


or 


aft i 


to 


( 3 ) Arry judgment , decrer , Fontelucon 

or order wil 

sport or made 
before the commencement of this Jou hy ny ( 011 t shall be doem 
ed for th .. purpose of " Sucution to have bour soo ! hy court 
constituted under the Act which morresp : 111 , far AG 

may br , 
to the court which parsed or macle the ju lgnent , decreo , sentence 
or order as the care may be : 

Provide ! that nothing crini sinnt in alb section ( 1 ) or sub -8ction 
( 2 ) shall be construed as extending pori d of limitation to which 
any suit, proceeding , case ur appeal may be subj. ot. 


( 13 ) 


Repeals and 

45. 1) Tic Manipur State ( our s Act , 1947 , 4. arron ol by the 
Savings . Manipur State Cuirls ( clinenilmont , Orler, 1931 ), is horeby ropea led . 

(2 ) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything dono or any action taken 
(including any appointment ror delegation maile , order , instrument or 
direction issued, rulo or riculation made under that Art ) Fall be 
doemed to have been done or taken in :lor this corresponding provisions 
of this Act 22.10.1 wlioll onione in force accurlingly unlern und until 
fuperreded loy anything done or any artan taken under the relevant 
prrovisions of this Act. 

46. The Cervietii the Juicial Commissioner Brtablishel under 
Deola ration 
of the Jusjo fection 3 is hereby declared to be a High Court for the purpwires of 

articles 132 , 133 and 134. of the Constitutionis ; and the provisjonik of 

the Judicial commispinners Courte ( Do: ll A ion 8 High Charta ) XV of 1950 . 
High Court 

Court 
Act , 1930 shall apply to th : t 
for cortain 

ffa th y apply in a Jolicial 
Commissioner s Court in existenie at the commenconent of tnis Act. 


cial l on 
missioner s 
Court as 


purposes 


Imphai : 


Printed and pulliebed by the Superla oudert, Guvernment Press , C - 271/ 24-2-56 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 64 - E - 22 


Imphal, Friday February 24 , 1956 . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


on 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal, the 24th February , 1956 . 
No. K - CS 3,55 .-- The following order issued by the Government of India 
21st February , 

published in the Manipir Gazette for gereral 
information . 

B. I. Sirma , 
Assit . Secretary (Co -ordination ) 

to the Cuvi. of Manipur . 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA . 
MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE . 

ORDER . 
New Delhi, dated the 21st February , 1950 . 
S.R.O .- (F.204 ( 1),56 - PY II ). — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
section ( 1) of section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act , 1955 (10 of 1965 ) , 
the Central Government hereby makes the following Order, namely : 


com 


2 . 


Short title , 1 . ( 1 ) This Order may 

boa called the Manipur Food . 
inencement & ap 

grains (Movement ) ( ontrol Order , 1956 . 
plication , 

(2 ) It shall come into force at once . 

( 3 ) It extends to the whole of the State of Manipur . 
Definitions . 

In this Order, unless the context otherwise requiros , - 
( 1) " foodgrains" means rice , paddy and products there 

of and includes Chira , Muri , Khoi, broken rice and 
every article which is the product of paddy except 

husk and Bhusi ; 
( 2 ) “ Stato " means the State of Manipur ; 
( 3 ) " State Government ” means the Chief Commissioner 

of Manipur. 
Restrictions on ax 3. ( 1 ) No person shall export or attempt to export or 

transport abot the export of any foodgrains from any place in the 
of food grains. 

State to any place outside the State except under and in 
accordance with a permit issued by the State Government 
or any officer authorised by the State Government in this 
belialf . 


port & 


( 2 ) 


8 


( 2 ) No person shall transport , attempt to transport or 
abet the transport of any food grains into the area of the 
State lying to the north of thu village of Kangpukpi except 
under and in accordance with a permit issued by the State 
Government in this behalf : 

Provided that nothing contrinca in sub - clauses ( 1 ) and 
( 2 ) shall apply to the export or transport of foodgrains - 

( i ) niit exceeding fire slers in weight in aggregate 
by a bonia - lide traveller 

part 

of his 
luggage ; or 

( ii) on Government inccount ; or 
( iii ) under and in accordance with Military Credit 

Notes . 
Powers of entry , 4. Any Police Officer n t below the rank of Assistant 
bearch , seizuro etc. Sub - Inspector and any other person authorised in this behalf 

by the Stato Government may , with a view to securing 
compliance with this Order or to satisfying biinsell 

that 
this Order bas been complied with -- 
( 1 ) Stop , search or isnt horise any person to stop and 
search any person , boat , motor or any 

vehicle or 
receptacle used or capable of being 118d for the 

transport of ( drrains ; 
( 2 ) enter and se irch or authwrise any person to enter and 

search any place ; 
( 3 ) seize or authorise the seizure of any article in respect 

of which he suspects that it contravention of this 
Order Huis lorell , is bring or is aliout to be committed 
along with the packiges , coverings or recepticing 
in which such article is fuund or the animals , vchi 
cles , Vessels or conveyances 118d in carrying such 
articles and thereafter take or au : horisa tbe taking of 
all the measures necessiry for securing the produc 
tion of the packages, coverings, receptacles or animals , 
vehicles , vessel : or conveyances No seized , in a court 

and for their safe custody peuding such production . 

5 . 
Repeal. 

The Manipur Foodyrsins (Movement) Control Order , 
1955 , issued hy ihm Chief Coinmissioner of Manipur under 
notification of the Government of Manipur No. CS3/55 , 
dated the 31st May , 1955 , is hereby repealud, except 29 
respects things done or omitted to be 

be done before the 
commencement of this Order . 

Sd /- P. N. Thapar, 
Secretary to the Govt . of India . 


t 


Imphal:-Printed and published by iho Superintendent Government Press C. 221 / 24-2-56 . 


Manipur 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 65 - E - 23 


Imphal, Saturday February 25 , 1956 . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Ordors by the Chiof Commissioner . 


NOTIFICATION . 

Imphal, the 23rd February , 1956 . 
No. J/15 54 - The Sales Tax Laws Validation Ordinance 1956 , published 
in the Gazztte of India , Extraordinary Pait, Il, Section I dated 30-1-56 
is republished for general information . 


THE SALES TAX LAWS VALIDATION ORDINANCE , 

1950 . 


No. 3 of 1956 . 


Promulgated by the President in the Seventh Year of 
the Republic of Iudia . 

An Ordinance to validate laws of States imposing, or 
authorising the imposition of, taxes on the sale or purchase 
of goods in the course of inter-State trade or commerce. 

Whereas Parliament is not in session and the President 
is satisfied that circumstances exist which render it neces 
sary for him to take immediate action ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( 1) of article 123 of the Constitution , the Presi 
dent is pleased to promulgate the following Ordinance : 
1. ( 1) This Ordinance may be called the Sales Tax 

Laws Validation Ordinance , 1956 . 
(2 ) It shall come into foroe at once. 


Short title and com . 
mencemont . 


Validation of State 
2. N.twithstanding any judgement, deer: or ordur of 

Laws imposing . Or 
any court no law of State, in 80 for as it iin poses, or authorising the imposi 

tion of taç on sale 
authorises the inpositivu of, a trx on the sale or purchase or purchase of goods 
of any goods where such sals or purchasc took place in the in the course of 

inter - Stato trade and 
course of inter- Stute trade or commerce during the period Commerce . 
butween the 1st day of April , 1951, and the 6th day of 
September , 1953 , shall be deemed to by invalid ever 
to have been invalid merely liy reason of the fact that 
such sale or purchasu took place in the course of inter 
State trade or com nerce ; and all such taxcs levied or col 
lccted or purporting to have been levied or collected during 
the aforesaid period shall, notwithstanding any defect in , 
or iuvalidity of, the enactment under u bich the tax was 
levied or collected , be deemed always to have been validly 
levied or collected as if this Ordinanco wero in force ou 
the dite on which such tax was levied or collected . 

Explanation : - In this section , " law of A State " includes 
any law made by the Logislative Assembly of a State speci 
fied in Part of the First Schedule to the cronsiitution 
and any ntification issued in vxorcise of the powers con . 
ferred by secti n 2 of the l art C States (Laws) Act, 1950 . 


Rajendra Prasad , 

l resident, 


K. Y. Bhandarkar, 
Secy . tu the Govt. of India . 


S. ( . Bardhan , 
Law Secy , to the Govt. of Manipur. 


loopbali- Printed and published by ihe Superintendent Government Press C. 221 /25-2-56 . 


bruary 20, 1938 . 


Potter 


Onter ,: Mesta 


Noticos mas 


3 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR 


lo 


11 


1 


Imphal, the late Južuary, 1968. 
No I-MD / 18 /64. - The Chief Content Malone is planned to appoint notil further ordate 
Shirt Y. Bhagya Singh to the post of Assistant Malaria Medical Officer granted under 
Government Order No. IMD /13/ 6 dated the 11th January , 1956 with offbot frowe 
the And Juntany ; 1956 . 


- 


R 


Imphal, the sand Februar 2000 . 
P / O /EC ).--On hin hornice Batug placid by dlapan.of Manipais con 

u 1988 toro- hipon the Chol Ciamidionat has both plodondo 

Bose Assistant Audit :Oost, dondo . Sertion Mistant Boi 
try ( intrody to the Manipat Adminitritibin frit 11-19se force - book ti to 
mund nonditions of appolatadi will be governed by this paberintotie persoonlinna 
Ministry of Home Audire latbar No 7.418/65- House of the 90th Cotabar , 1960 


Imphal, the 95th Fobruary 1966 
Odial Camminiónar. 18 : plus : 10 


Shri X. No 
the00 

ON b & 0.02 


period Axmout there 


% 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 29 , 1936 . 


NOTIFICATIONS 

Imphal, the 29th February , 1956 . 
No. 1J / 2 /58 / II . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Bub- Seotion ( 1) of Seo 
tion 9 of the Code of Criminal Proo duro, 1898 ( Act V of 1898 ), read with the Noti 
fication No. F.12( 2 ), J/ 11/üb , dated the 26th April, 1955 , of the Government of Ludia , 
Ministry of Home Affairs and in supersegsion of all pravious notifications on the 
subject, the Chief Commissiuner of Manipur is pleased to appoint Shri Sris Cháadra 
Lala , M. A., B. L., District Judge of Manipur , as the sessions Judge of Manipar 
and directs that as such Sessions Julge, he shall exercise jurisdiction in the Court 
of Sessions establishod for the Manipur Sessious Divisions, vill effeot from the 
of March , 1966 . 


Imphal, the 20th February , 1956 . 
No. 1J / 2 /56 , IV . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Sootion 
16 of the Manipur ( Courts ) Act, 1 55 (Act 66 of 1955 ), the Chief Commissioner of 
Manipur is pleased to ostablish Court of a Subordinate Judge at Manipur with , 
effect from ist of March , 1966 and to appoint Sri i . Radha Mohun Singh , appointed 
under the Manipur State Court Act , 1947, to the post of the subordinate judge of 
that court . 

S.C. Bardhan , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur, (L +w ). 


PART II 


N ( TIFICATIONS. 


: 


Impbul, the 29th February , 195ti. 
No. IJ /2 56 I. - In exercise of the powers cpierred by Sub - Sectiin ( I ) of Section 
ng of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898 (Art V of 18:16 ), read with the N : fi 
cation No. F. 12 ( 2)/ J/ 11/66 , dated the 26th April, 1963 of the Gvormwent of India , 
Ministry of Home Affairs , and in superras- ion of all pravime notific.tions on the sub 
ject, the Chief Commissiower of Manip ır iv ; planned to declare that the eutire ares 
eomprised within the State of Manipur shall be a seusions division to be called the 
HOBBions division of Manipur for the purpose of the said section . 

2. The Notification will take effct from the 1st of March , 1956 . 


. 


$ 


. 


In pial, the 29th Februly, 1951). 
No. IJ /2 56 / II.- Io exercise of this 

powers « onferred by Sub -Sections ( i ) and 
( ) of Section .99 of the Code of Criminal Procedur , 1858 ( Act V of 1847 ), 
read with the Notifio tio No , F. 121:2 )/ J / 11 /55, dated the 20th April , 1955 of thº 
Government of In lix , Ministry of lion Affairs , wat in supiransion of all previus 
Notifications on the subject , the Chief Coinmisdinor of Manipur is planned 

( 1 ) to eatablish a court of Session for the sessions Division of Manipar; 
( ? ) to direct that Imphal shall ba ibe place at which the Court of Seasions 

hall ordinarily holdts gettings. 
The Notifiortion . ll take effect from the let of Mørch , 1966 . 


8. C. Bardhan , 
Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur, ( Law ). 


MANIPUR GAZĐTTE , FEBRUARY 29, 1956 . 


NOTIFICATION NO. 1 of 1956 . 

Imphal, the 3:2nd February, 1956 . 
The Judicial Commissioner with the approval of the Chief Commissioner, is pleased 
declare that the following poriod of L NG VACATION & Christmas holidays will be 
observed as closed holidays ja the Court of the Judicial Commissiner , Manipur during 
the year 1H56 in addition to the Gazetted holidays issued by the Local Goveromont 
vide Notification No. SR / 10 /65 / 144 dated the oth Docember , 1985. 
Long Vacation : 

From the 10th September , 1956 to the 

16th November, 1986 inc ! usive of both days . 
Christmas in 

From 24th Decomber, 1456 to 31st December, 
19 : 6 , both days inclusive . 


{ i 


Notification No. 2 of 1958 , 

Imphal, the 22nd February , 1956 . 
Tho Judioial Commissioner with the approval of the Chief Commissione . , is plan sad 
to declare that tbe following perind of LONG VACATION and Christroan holidays 
will be observed as closed holidays in all Civil Courts subordinate to the court of 
the J. C., Manipur during the year 1955 in addition to the Gazetted holdaya inguud 
by the Local Government vide Nitification No. SR / 10 /65/ 144 datud tbe 21th Ducona 
bor . 1935 . 
Long Vacation : From the 1st October, 1956 to 2nd November, 

1956 inchirivo of bo : h days , 
Christmas 

From : 4th Deceniber, 1956 to 31st Dacombe:. 
1956 inclusive of birth days . 


K. B. Singh , 

Registrir , 
Judicial Commissioner s Court , Manipar. 


NOTIFICATION 


Dated Shillonz, the 19th February , 1956 . 
Subject -Abnornal rush of payments towards the close of the Financial your . 

No.TM 2 38 /52 43. --Attention of All the Achuinistrative D - puluania and Herds 
of Departments is invited to the Gov.rument isf Anki, Finance Departwont letter 
No. FE . 10/5:1/2 dated the 24th January 53 vo . " B , 1 1. 54, ! ditted by 19th April 51/ 
Guverdinent of Tripura, Finance Deparemont . • ircular No. F : 2237 ( 2-1 );G . !! 159 :52 
dated the 23rd February 13, Govt . of Vaniou ; Ravinu ) and Finanot Departinent 
Mem . No. F :\/ 97/6/5 dåtid the 24th Fóbruary 53. They are roulosted w ensure 
that the instructions issued by the G » vt . ara sictly ohiarvad 80 18 to avoid hanty 
rush of pıyments towards to the cline of the financial year . The orders requiring 
authority for paymont or hills for pro -audit which are intended to be note i 
* before tha ol se of the Financial Year eh uld be subraitted 87 as tu rosch the Office 
of the Aozuntuot General , Assim before tho lith Marul 56 at the latest . The 
payment of bills arc. receiveri aftur th9, 16th oinnot be guaranteed . 


upou 


1 


H. 8. Samuel, 
Deputy Accountant General ( I), A asam . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 20 , 1960. 


PART 1 

NOTIFICATION 

Impbal, the 24th February , 1986 . 
MS. M /SK / 10 /BBC ). Govt. of India , Midiary of Home Affities Order No. Eu 
$$_ Poftiti, dated ma February, 1968 1. published below for general public infor 


tou . 


A. K. Bayi 
Chiot Sooretary to the Govt. of Manipur . 
ko. F11/ 3/ 65 - Poll . It 
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA , 
MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS . 
Now Delhi, the 2nd February , 1936 . 

ORDER 
In pursuance of clauss (22 ) of Article 386 of the Constitution of India the 
President is hereby pleased to recognise His Highness Maharaja Okendrajit Singh , 
- the Rulor of Mwaipur with effeot from the oth Deoomber, 1958 in loobusion 
to His luto Highposu Maharaja Bodh Chandra Singh . 

V. Viswanathan , 
Joint Secretary to the Gupt. of India . 


PART IV 

Imphal, the 25th February , 1956 . 
PAYMENT PROGRAMME OF A. R. M. COMPENSATION FOR THE VILLAGES 
OF IMPAAL EAST & TENGNOUPAL SUB - DIVISION . 

Imphal East Tahsil. 
Name of village 

No. of Cases 

Amount 

Date of Payment. 
1. Keiki Tarot Khu 

100 10,349 

28 2. 56 
2. Kubi Khullen 

180 12,370 

89. 2. 60 
3. Lamboi Khuo ( Hindu-) 176 

19,628 
do ( Md . ) 61 

3.1146 

lat & 2nd Mar., 86 
Såmom Leikai 

16 

3,406 
6. Uyumpok 

336 34,610 

8rd & 5th Mar., 86 . 
9. Keibi Lousangkhong . 121 

11,499 

13. 8. $ 0 
Tengnoupal Sub- Division , 

Sugau Centre . 
1. Tonpokpi 

1,326 
G bok 

1,110 
3. Komson 

86 | 

982 
Pairau Maghot 

86 %-296 

610 

1. . 56 . 
Kbullen Kouilst 

101 
Lumaplan Chart 

1.895 
7. Limfong Khaojito 

156 
218 

4,199 
2. Kenmbl Maring 

86 8333 ) 

8. S. 68 . 
9. Angpin , 

28 

6 98 
10. Lawa Changing . 

88301 2,5118 

38 . 
11. Lengol Maring 

28,758 


Y. Gourmani Singh , . 
Assistans Beotetary ( Clait to the Gert , 

of Manipur, Imphale 


WANIPUR GA 


FEBRPARY 2. 1999. 


NOTICE No. 18 / 3 - XV1/ 82 . 

Impbal, the 7th February , 1956 . 
Applioations stating age, qualifioations, educational and technical in wouving, pre 
piono experiences and the number of wives, if married are invited for « torpurary 
pont . of a weaving Instruotor for the Moirang Government High School in the soul 
of pay of ks. 100-10-130 -EB 6-180-EB - 10-260 /- p . m . with ugurl D. A. and will be 
received by the andersigned during office hours upto the 7th March , 1956 . 

Preference will be given to a candidate who knows one or more of looul language , 
Candidatos are required to attend the office of the uudersigned for interview on 
the 7th Merob , 1966 . 


NOTICE NO . ED /MUT / 14 /86 , 28 

Imphal, the 16th February , 1950 . 
Applications stating age, qualification , previous experience, homo address and nouabar 
of living wives, il marcot are invited for a tempo ary post of te roher for Thanga 
Toeiband M. E. School in the scals of pay Rs. 75-2 101 ( CB ) -4.13.) P. M. with usual 
1). A. and will loro received by the undersigned upts th : 29th Februiry , 1958 . 
Candidates must have passed the Sormu Tiaining or intermediata Examinations. 
Usher things being equal preference will be given to who can lida - es w120 krov 
one or more Itcıl lunjungos . Candidates are requirud to attend the offios of ths 
la pector of Sqhuols on 2nd March , 1956 at 10 a . m . with neocBortky Gorlition tou fust 
interview . 


NOTICE No.ED E / 2 ( 1 ) / 81 

Imphal, the 18th February , 1951;. 
applications addressed to the luspertor of School , Manipur stating educational 
qualitications, age , homo address , previous experience , and number of wives living 
thof if marriod ) are invited for a temporary post of Psadit for the Sungkai Rirl L. P. 

School in the Ukbrul sul -division in tho soule of pay , fo. 30-1-35 - EB - 1-10 : P. M. 
with usual D. A. and will be regrived hy him , during offion hours , upto the 6th 
March , 1956. Other things being equil . preforóncs will be give to candidates know 
wing one or more of local languages. The minimun jualification should be mutric 
lata , but relaxation will be given if there are no s matriculate applicants . andıdaten 

re required to attend the offic ) of the In - pectur of Schouls , Monip12 for i !lerview 
on 7. 3. 56. with a causa y Oui tificates . 


. ( TICE No.ED / E / 27 /CDP / 38 

Imphal, the 22nd February , 1956 . 
Applications addressed to the Inspoo or of Schools , Manipur stating Educational 
qualificativas, Hone adirese , age, previous experience and no. of wivos living , if mer 
Sied , are invited for me tewpvaly pst of toucher for the Yair pok L. P. wchool in 
Who Loule of pay, Rs. 30-1-36 1.B - 1.40 , - p . m with usun! D. A. and will be received 

biru , upto the qto March , 1956 during ollice la surs. Candidates arw required 
o atiend the five of the Inspector of schools , Manipur for interview on 9-3-06 

th Deocasy certiñoutes . " The minimum qualification abould be matriculate but re 
Sabion will bs given it thore are no mutrioulate applicants .. 

L. M. Singh , 
Ivspec or uf Schools , Manipur . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 20 , 1986. 


NOTICE 


Imphal, the 20th February 1956 . 
No. VY.1/55.- Applications stating age, educational qualification , prevlous oxpe- . 
rience if any, homo addresi, age on 1.2.56, number of wives living if married , ara 
invited for a towporary post of typist -oum -clerk in the senle of Rs. 40-2-50-EB . 
3-81)-EB - 4-100 /- p. m . with usual Dearness Allowance in the Office of the Director 
of Agriculture ( Veterinary und Animal Husbandry ), Manipur. Applications addressed 
to the Director of Agriculture ( Veterivary and Animal Husbandry ) & Fishery, 
Maripur, will be received by the undersigned upto the 9th Mnroh , 1956 , 

Candidates are r.quired to appear before the Director of Agriculture (Vetorinary 
and Animal Husbandry ), Manipur with cortiliustós (in ongioal) for interviow on 
the loth March , 1956 st II A , M. 

The minimum educationial qualification should be a Matriculate with typing speed 
at 40 words per minute . 

Otber things being equal profurence will be given to candidate knowing one 
or more of the local languages. 

S. N. Chatterjos , 
Animal Husbandry Officer , Manipar, 


Imphal, the 23rd February , 1986 . 
Applicationą are invited for the following temporary posts at the pay scale noted 
against their names for one Health Centre „ in the Mad Maram National Extension 
Service Blook and will be received by the undersigned on or before the 10th Marok , 
1986 upto 11 a.m. and interview will be held on the same day. 
Name of post . No. of posts . 

Pay scael p . m . 
Health Visitor. 

Ono 

Rs. 80-6-1201 -EB -6-150 / 
Midwife. 

Three . 

45-2-6.5-EB -66-EB -3-80 / 
Sanitary Inspector. 

Ono 

40-2-70 /-plus Rs. 6 / -as 

special allowance. 
Grado IV servants . 

... One 

22-1-28 / 


B. M. Singh , 
Offg . Chief Medical Officer , Manipur . 


Inphal, the 25th February , 1966 . 
Applications addreased tn this Principal. D. M. College , Imphul are invited for 
the post of a Librarian to the Goit. D. M. Collega; Imphal in scale of Hb. 100-1 . 
160 /- plus D. A. as admissible according to rules so as to reach the Principal by 
10-3-1986 . 

Qualification : - Essential. 
A graduate with a diploma in Library Scionce , 
Desirable : At least 2 years experience with knowledge of organising 

and managing the library of • degree colloge. 
Age - 

Below 86 yosrs. 
Proforonce will be given to candidatos knowing one or moro local languagon , 

N. B. Sinha, 
Principal D. M. College , Imphal 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 29 , 1986 . 


TENDER NOTIOE 

Imphal, the 23rd February , 1956 . 
To nders addressed to Principal, D. M. College, Imphal for supply of 5 ( live ) seer 
of ice on all working days from lat Marob to 81st May, 1956 are invited from 
intending suppliers and will be reosived by the undersigaed upto 3 P. M. on 29-4-1966 

N. B : Sinha . 
Offy . Principal, D. M. College , Imphal 


NOTICE No. EDA-XXII/56 /13 

Imphal, the 9th February , 1959 , 
Soaled tenders for the supply of scholaud Hostel furniture for the Tribal areas 
are invited and will be requived by the undersigned upto 1 P. M of the 29th Feby ., 
1886. Tenders will be ripened on the 24th Foby ., 1956 ut ? P. M. before the attan . 
ding toudečars . The total estimated cost of the furniture, including transport obargan 
to the respective schools and hotels , is Rs. 22,368 /-. Full purticulars may bo bad 
at the office of the undersigned during office buurs . 

R. Luikham , 
Doputy Inspector of School (Tribal) Manipur . 


Imphal, the 23rd February , 1966 . 
Senlod tendors for making twelve Band Dresves for the Manipur Rifles Band aro 
invited and will be received by the undersigned upto 11. 03 A. M. on 5th Maroh , 
1966 . 

Particulars . Approximato cost. Earnest money . Time of completion . 
Wcollen pants and 6,0 / 

100 / 

Ten dxys from the 
Jodhpuri Couts with 

date of work order 
fringes. 

issued . 
2. Full particulars of the work can be had from the Oifice of the undersignod 
on any working day during office hours . 

R. N. Singh , 
Commandant, Manipur Rifles , Imphal 


NOTICE No. T /68 / 55 

Impbal, the 21st February , 1956 . 
Souled tendors will be received from the registered Contractors of P.W.D., Manipur 
apto 12 Noon of 29. 2. 1956 in the Office of the . Es cutivo Eaşiner ( Irrigation 
Dwision ) for the undermuntioned work . Dotuils muy he made available from the offico 
of the undersiyued during officy hours. 

Namo uf work . Estimated cost , Earnest Monoy . Time allowod . 
Construction of Mater 

• He 43,810 / 

Rs. 1,000 / 

6 ( six ) months 
dity and Child Welfaro 
Contre at Civil Hospital, 
Imphal. 

B. M. Sarma, 
Krocutive Engineer (Irrigation Division ) , 

P. W. D. Munipur, 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 29, 1936. 


NOTICE 

Imphal, the 24th February , 1988 . 
No. 3/C8/ 01 /56-56. - It is hereby notified for general information that, parduot to 
mootion 9 of the Co-operative Societies Aot , 1947, the Kebui Naga Vlaying Bombili 
Crashing and Allied Indus rial Co-operative 8 sciety Ltd. has been registered a and 
uumbered as 8 of " 1965,56 dated the 20th February of the year one thousand nio . 
huawed and fifty six Anno Domini. 

P. C. 8. Bordoloi, 

Assistant Régistrat, 
Co operative Societies , Maaipur . 


PRESS NOTE 

Imphal, the 33rd February , 19.30 . 
No. DVC /GEN 163/55 187. - Some Community Receiving sets opérated on dry but 
fery or on mains operation may be available for supply to the villages ni prmferably to 
groups of villages in the Imphal West l absil during the Granoiel your 1956-57. 
The receiving sets many each we mure or less Rs . 300 /-. The villagers who are the 
be benefited by the installation of a 14001ving set ahould by prep.phd to contribute 

substantial portion of the cost thereof which may rungt from 25 % to 40 % of the 
cost and bear themselves thao msinonunce charves 

Village Committees preparod to pause people s contribution and maintain the sot 
in good order on the above baris will please supply to the undersigned , stating the 
type of receiver required (Medium Wale or coiub nid midom s d short wave for 
mains or dry battery operation ), on or befire thin 2 th Fibruary , 1981). The rsquiro 
ments of the villages in other Tahsıls or u -divisions have to he intimited to this 
offico through the Revenue or Duvelopiount office is concerned . 


V. S. Sundaram , 
1 )Avolopnimnt ( onsmissioner , 
(Planning and Development Office) . 


Inpbal the 22nd February , 1956 
No. V.P.Press Pub 56 , III. - The undermentwed pics Note is republished for 
information . 

Gopendra Sharma, 
Publicity Officer , Manipur. 


PRESS INFORMATION BURE IU . 

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA . 
International Law scholarships 

New Delhi, February 11 , 1936 . 
The Hague Academy of Interantimal LAW has offered number of scholarship of 
the value of 300 guilders (ahout Rs . 376 ). Out of these uptu two are to be awarded 
to Indian nationals during 1956 Session (from July 10 to August 11, 1966 ). 

Applications stating the applicant s surname, first marmo, qualifications profumation , 
nationality , place and date of birth , together with #stutemrut of tipes wblok #be 
applicant considers of value for obtaniug & scholarsbip should be submitted by the 
applicant to the Secretariat of the Acaloidy Peace Palaos, The Hague, direct me 
to reach them by April 1 , 1958 . 

Further information regarding regulations, eto . governing these scholarships my 
bo obtained diruot from the Academy, 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , FEBRUARY 29 , 1986 . 


NOTICE . 

Imphal, the 24th February , 1956 . 
No. 4 /CS/ 11/ 55-56 /9. - It is hereby notified for general information that, pursuant 
to Section 9 of the Manipur Co-operative Societies Act, 1947, the Kangla Multipur 
pose Co-operative Society Ltd. has boon this day registered in my Office as Oo 
oporative Society and numbered a8 4 of 1955-56, dated the twonty third February of 
the year one thousand niño hundred and fifty six Anno Domini. 


Imphal, the 24th Feb. 1956. 
5 / CS / 11 /65-56 /2. - It is hereby notified for general information that, pursuant to 
section 9 of the Co -operative Societies Act 1947, the Manipur Hand Pounders Co 
operativo Production & Sale Co- operative Society Ltd. has been registered and num 
Lered as 5 of 1958-66 dated the 24th February of the year one thousand nine hun 
dred and fifty six Anno domini. 


Imphal, the 28th February , 1956 . 
Whereas a case of defalcation of money from the Manipur Co -operative Bank Ltd., 
Imphal by the former Secretary Shri K. Nabakishore Singh has been reported and 
whereas the said Secretary is absconding yet , I have appointed Shri Iswar Chandra 
Dutta , Retd : Govt. Officer Maxwell Bazar, Imphal, to audit the accounts of the 
said Bank and report the position for further steps in the matter. 

It is hereby notified for the information of all members and other constituenta 
interested in the said Bank that all claims and objections should be preferred to the 
above named Auditor , duly supported by documentary evidence on or before the 
7th March , * 1956 . Any claims preferred after that date and without supporting evi 
dento will not be considered . 

P. C. S. Bordoloi , 

Assistant Registrar , 
Co -operative Societies , Manipur. 


Imphal : -Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Press, 1.- 871/ 29-2-56. 


Manipur 


Gazette 


7 . 


EXTRAORDINARY 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 67 - E - 24 


Imphal, Monday March 5 , 1956 . 


GOVERNMENT OF VIXIPIR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 


VOTIFICATION . 

Imphal, the 6th January , 1950 . 
No. J 15 54. --The Abolition of Whippin Act, 1955 is republished for 
yaniril information, 

A. K Ray , 
( hief Sorretary to the ( tovt . of Manipur . 


THE ABOLITION OF VIPPIVO S ( " T . 1 ..). 

( 14 of 9. , 


1 


All 


Art 


to preside for the bali ?zon.f whipping as I punishment by ripealing 
ih N " , pi 

Inrin and forget throm memling the loita is l ri. 
minil Procedure , 1899 . 


Be it enacted loy Parliament in the sixth year of the Republic 
of India AA follows : 


Tor 1909 . 


2 


V of 1898 


of Act V of 
1998 . 


1 . This 101 may lue cal load the Alille ris Whipping Art, 1957. Short title . 

Repeal of 
The Whipping Act , 190 : , is hereby repealed . 

Art IV of 

1009 . 
3 In the Code of Criminal Procedure , 18:48 ( hereinafter roferred Amendment 
to as the principal Act) , 

la in predpind 35 , in suele serion ( l !, the entry " Whipping " 
against item 1. ) shall lips omitted ; 

(6 ) sections 3 : (1 * 3,5 fball he omitted ; 

(c ) in fection 3 : 6 , in sub -section ( 1 ), for the words " fine 
or whipping " , the worils or fine " shall be substituted. 


( 2 ) 


Iy of 1909 


sentences of 


imposed upon 


4. If at the commencement of this Act any sentence of whipping Provision for 
an offender by a Court under the Whipping Act, 

Whipping Act , whipping 
1:09 , has not been executed for any reason , whether wbully or per- pending oie . 
tially , the itfender shall be draft with in the manner provided in commence 

hot boren 

ment of act, 
sertion 395 of the principal Arts if that fiction had 
repraleil . 


In pliathe Irinted doci publiceerd dos 


ne Juliet R10.deni soverument Press ( ! 221.5 3-36 


Manipur 


Gazette 


3 


सयमेव 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 68 


Imphal, Wednesday , March 7 , 1956 . 


CONTENTS 


Page 


Page 
Part 1] ] Ordors, Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of Inella , 
Part IV . - Advertisements and Noticos . 5 to 13 


Part 1 - Appointments , Postings, Transfers , Powers, 

Laavo and other personal notions, 
it IL - Rosolutions, Rogulations, Orders , Norih . 

cations, Rulos otc . 


1 to :) 


2 to 4 


PART I 


GOVEBNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Orders by the Chief Commissioner . 

Imphal , the 15th February , 1956 . 
No. CA 44,55 . - In continuation of his order of even numbor dated 13th Febru 

1956 the Chief Commissioner is pleased to appoint Shri R. K. Sanabal Singh , 
Txution Officer, as Additional Assistant Secretary / Finance in the post for a further 
eriod of three months . 


Imphal, the 1st March , 1956 . 
No. J / I/55-56 / 1 ( F ) 

.On his services being pluced at the disposal of the Manipur 
dministraſion with effect from the 10th of February , 1956 , the Chief Commissionor 
pleased to appoint Shri S. P. Hazırika , Extra Assistant Commissioner , Assam . As 
Extra Assistant Commissioner under the Manipur Government with effoot from 

20th of February , 1956 against the post sanctioned under Manipur Administra 
on Order No. J / I /65 / I ( D ) dated 27th February , 1956 . 

2. Sbri Hazarika will be on deputation initially for a period of six monthis 
Alth effect from the date be joined his appoir.tment in Manipur . The other terms 
and conditions of his deputation . will be regulated in accordance with orders issued 
andor the Ministry of Homo Affairs s letter No. F.4 / 18 : 56 - Estt.C , dated 28th Octo 
bur,, 1955 . 

A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt , of Manipur. 


W 


11 


Imphal, the 1st March , 1966 . 
No. J / 14 /55-56 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 12 and 39 of 
the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898 read with Notification No. F.12 (2 ) J / 11 /85 , datod 
36-4-88 of the Goveroment of India , Ministry of Home Affairs , New Dolbi, the 
Ohiof Commissioner is pleased to invest Sbri 8. P. Hazarika , Extra Assistant Commi. 
wioner with the powers of... niagistrate first 0.858 and to direct that bin Jurisdio 
tion and powers as such magistrate shall extend throughout the State of Manipur. 
This Ordor shall take effect from 20-2-56 . 

S. C. Bardhan , 
Secretary (Law ) to the Gork of Manipur . 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 7 , 1936 . 


Imphal, the 2nd March , 1956 . 
No. J /17 /52. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section of the Otiminal 
Law Amendment Act, 1962 (Act XLVI of 195 :-) , as delegated to him by Notihon tion 
No. 21 / 7 /52 - Police II , Government of India , Ministry of Home Affaira , dated the 6th 
Soptember, 1952, the Chief Commissioner is pleased to appoint Shri Sris Chandra 

al , M. A., B. L., Sessions Judge of Manipur, as the Special Jugo ; to try the follow 
ing offences , namely : 

(a ) an offence punishable under Section 161 , Section 168 or Section 166A 

of the Indian Penal Code ( Act XLV of 1860 ) or Sub -hootlop ( p ) of Sectiota 

of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 (11 of 1947) ; 
(b ) any conspiracy to commit or any attempt to commit or any abatment 

of any of the offences specified in clause (a ). 
His jurisdiction as such Special Judge shall extend throughout the whole of the 
State of Manipur. This notification will comu into effect from the dute of issue. 


T. Kipgon , 
Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur . 


PART I 


Inphal, the 2nd March , 1966 . 
No. F -DPC /62 /55-18-10 .-- In ontinuation of this Adininistration order No. F -DP0 / 
83/56 dated 1st November , 1955 the Chief Commissioner is pleased to extend the 
term of the temporary post of Planning and developrr.out Officer in the Develop 
mont Com missioner s Office from 1-3 56 uptu -8-2-57 and the appoiutment thereto 
of Sbri A. Nilamani Singh . 

The expenditure is debitable to the sanı-tio iod grant for " Staie Eleadquarters " 
under " 63 - B - Community Development Projects, NES and Local Development Worka " 
fur 1956-57 . 


Imphal, the 2nd Marcl., 1966 . 
No. F -DPC /62/ 55 /20-21. – In continuation of this Administration order No. A-PW / 
Misc / 13 /55 - Pt. II dated 30.5.58 the Chief Commissivaur is pleased to extend the terre 
of the temporary of Sub -Divisional Officer (PWD ) froin 1.3.58 upto 23.2.57 and 
the appointment thereto of Shri Kh . Somorendra Singh . 

The expenditure is debitable to the sunotioned grant for " Stute Headquarters " 
under " 68 - B Community Development l rojects, NES aod Local Development Works 
for this Stato for 1956-57 . 


Imphal, the 2nd March , 1956 . 
No. F -DPC /62 /55 / 22-23. In continuation of this Administration order, No. B - DPCI 
2/86 dated 29-10-58 the Chief Commissioner is pleased to extend the term of the 
temporary post of Statistical Officer for Administrative Intelligence fettmobed to the 
Development Commissioner , from 1-8-66 unto 28-3-57 and the ap , bintpptat theretol 
of Shri Haridec Sarma . 

Tho expenditore is debitable to the sanctioned grant for the thing Handguardan 
under • 68 - B - Oommunity Development Projeots , NES and Local Dataloprannat Warko 
for this state for 1966-67; 

T. Kingan 
Secretary to the Gott, a tu 


1 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 17 , 1986 . 


Imphal , tbe 2nd March , 1966 . 
No. F -DPC /62 /55 /26-27._In contiunation of this Administration order No. F -DPC / 
90/69 dated 18-5-55 the Chief Commissioner is pleased to extend the term of the 
temporary post of Block Development Officer , Mao- Maram NES Blook from 1.3.66 
upto 28-2 :57 and the apprintment thereto of Shri K. Obou Mao . 

The exprinditure is debitalle to the sanctioned grant for “ National Extension 
Service" under . 63 -B -Community Development Projects , NES aud Lucal Development 
"Works " for this State for 1956-87 . 


Iviphal, the 2nd March , 1956 . 
No. F.DPC /62/55/ 30-31.-- In continuation of this Administration order No. F -DPCI 
8 /63- Pt/ B Dated 28.12.55 the Chief Commissioner is pleased to annotion the exten 
Bion of the term of the temporary post of Block Development Officer , Imphal East 
N. E. S. Block from 1-3-56 upto 28-2-57 and the appointment thereto . of Shri 
Chandrakumar Sarma . · 

The expenditure is debitable tu the sanctioned grant for " National Extension 
Service" under "63- B -Community Development Projects, NES and Local Development 
Works " for this Stato for 1956-57 . 


he 


Impbal, the 2nd March , 1956 . 
No. F -DPC 62/55 /34-35 . - In continuation of this Administration order No. F.DPOJ 
12756 dated 24-12-50 the Chief Commissioner is plonged to sanction the continuance 
of the temporary post of Additional Block Development Officer for the Imphal East 
NES Block from 1-3-56 uplo 28-2-57 and the appointment thereto of Shri Maga 
chaug Raikhain , 

The expenditure is debitable to the sanctioned grant for “ National Extension 
Service ” under " 83- B Community Development Projects , NES and Local Develop 
mont Works " for this State fur 1956-57. 

T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur , 


Imphal, the 1st March , 1956 . 
No. Regia : 2:54 /I. - In continuation of this Secretariat Notification No. Regis / 2/64 
dated 18-2-85, thu Chief Commissioner is pleased to ranotion the continunnce of the 
post of temporary Sub.Registrar for one year with effect from 1-3-50 , 

2. The expenditure is debitable to the sanctioned budget of the Registration 
Department of this Administration . 


Imphal, the 2nd March , 1956 . 
No. RH / 102 /51 397. In pursuance of Government of India , Ministry of Rehabili. 
tation letter N :s. H.[ -I( 24 )/65 H & U duted the 31st January , 1956 sanotioning tho 
sobienie of rehabilitation of 64 displaced middle olasa families from Anet Pakistan 
in Manipur, the Chief Commissioner is pleased to approve the rehabilitation of spoke 
families at Mantripukhri . He is furtber , pleased to approve the Aization of the most 
ket value of land st Mantripukhri at Rs. 1,000 /- per sors and to order that 20 % of 
titre market talue : 80 fized be realised from the families conqerned . 


H. R. Singles 
Asst . Becretary (GIL ) to the Gerd Manipat. 


? 


- 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAROH 7 ; 1956. : 


Imphal, the 1st March , 1966. 
No. J/ 18 /54 (b ).-- In continuation of his order issued under notification No. J/Mino . 
80/80 ( a ), dated 1-6-15 , the Chief Commissioner is pleased to sanction the conti«su Ance . 
of the post of Additional Munsiff for one year with effect frumq 1-8-56 and to the 
continuance of the existing incumbent in the post of his present termy, 

The expenditure involved will be debitable to the Minor Head- " Civil and 
Semions Court" under the area Duman - Manipur for 1956-77 . 

S. C. Bardhav 
Secretary (Law ) to the Govt. of Manipur. 


Imphal, the 2! th February , 1956 . 
No. R /56 /50/ 99.- Whereas it appears to the Chief Commissioner that improved 
arrangements are required within the area specified in the s hedulo hereunder oom pris . 
ing Vinam Bazar and its neighbourhord for all matters as specified in section 52 . 
of the Assam Municipal Act, 1923 ( 1 of 1923 ) as extended to this state, which 
arua it is not expedient to constitute into # Municipality . 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred upon bim by sub- section (1 ) 
of section 828 of the said Aot, the Chief Commissioner is ploased to deolare tbo 
said area as a notified area , 

Should any inhabitant of the said area desire to objeot to this notification ho 
may within six weeks from the date of publication of this antification submit his 
objection in writing to the Chief Commissioner through the Deputy Commissioner 
for consideration . 

A. K Ray 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur, 

SCHEDULE . 
Commencing from the N. W. corner of the Inkbol under Dag No. 385 runs 
southwards up to the N. W. corns of the Inkliol under Dag No. 280 with the 
oasteromost boundary line of the Tiddiin Road side reservation area as its western 
boundary line , then it turns eastwards along the birthorn buunduries of tbe Ink bols 
under Dags Nos . 280 , 436 and 282 11p to the riddlo portion of the porthern boun 
dary of the 

Inkhol under Dag No. 282, the line turus northwards touohing the 
south eastern corner of the Inkhol under Dag No. 3-1, then it turns westward . 
touching the southers boundaries of lacs Nos. 341 and 462, thence extending north 
ward touching the western boundaries of Dags Nos. 462 , 382 and 380 connecting 
the starting point . 


- 


I ! 


PART UI 

NOTIFICATION. 

Imphal, the 29th February, 1966 . 
No. J/ 1/54 .-- The Notification No. 2/ 1/56 -Judi II duted 15-2-56 issued by the Govorn . 
ment of India , Ministry of Home Affairs, New Delhi is published in the Gazette 
for general information : 

" In pursuance of clause (1 ) of article 239 of the constitution , the President horoby 
directs that the Chief Commissioners of the States of Tripura , Manipur, Kutoh , 
Coorg, Ajmer and Delhi and Lt. Governors of Himanchal Pradesh and Vindhya Pram : 
desh , shall, subject to the control of the President, and until farther orders , axor 
- ciso the powers and discharge the functions of the Central Government, under the 
provisions of Sub -section (8 ) of section 198B of the Code of Criminal Prooéduro, 1999 
( V of 1898 ), in the case of persons employed in connection with the attain of their 
respective statos .” 

8. C. Bardhan . 
Secretary (Low ) to the Gort , of Manipu . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 7 , 1956 . 


PART I 
NOTICE No. ED / E / 31/ 3 . 

Impbal, the 28th February , 1986 . 
Applioations addressed to the Inspector of fichools, Manipur stating educational 
alifioations, Homo address , age, previous experionce and number of wives, if married , 
moto ia vited for the following temporary posts of thuchers in the scale of pay , Re. 
0.1-36EB : 1-40 p. m . with usnal D. A : and will be raonived by him , during office 
pers, upto the 13th March , 1936. Applicants are required to attend his office 

interview the 16th March . 1956 , with necessary certificates. Other things , 
Aniag equal preference will be given to one who knjwa one or more of the local 

guages . The minimum qualifiontiou will be matriculates but relaxation will be 
tron if there are no matriculate candidates . 

(11 ) For Chandapur Single rural L. P. Sobol I No. 
( h ) For Heitup Makhong 

- 1 No , 


on 


L. M. Singh , 
Inspector of Schools , Manipur . 


21, the 29th Februay, 1956 . 
PROGRAMME FOR DISTRIBUTION OF A. R. M. MONEY IN THE OFFICE 

OF TUE S. D. O. CHURACIIANDPUR . 
Dute Time, 
6. 3. 86 1 . ( hurachandpur Mission 

kr. 6718 / 
10 A. M. 2. Thingchorn 

B. 140 / 
3 . Sahuni 

Rs. 100/ 
Laihamolsao) 

Ro. 2041 
5. Sanpangjal 

RA . 4754 / 
6 . Muallum 

RA 7953 , 
Total RA , 21 133 / 


A. 


1.3. 56 . 
10. A. M. 


1. Narapseina Chingphai 
2. Kokvdan Khuno 
3. Kokodin Khullen 
4. Matit Moltam 
6. Hongkot 
6. Khopuilung 


Hla . 

400 / 
HA. 562 / 
Re . . 5600 
Rs. 2527 / 
R. 502 . 

HA . 1800 / 
Total Re , 11,391 / 


3. 3. 56 . 
7. A. M. 


1. Satohhoiroi 
2. Illanbung 
3. Ngairong 
4. Huotak 
5. Ngurte 
6. Chahgpikot 


: 
: 
: 


He. 6913 / 
Ho. 5040 / 
Ka 2200 / 
Hon . 20 / 
Rs. 1044 / 
RA. 403 / 
Kr . 14,800 / 
Rs. 47,32 / 


Total 


Grand Tutal 


K. Kipgen , 
S , D. O. Churachandpar 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 7, 1966 . 


Implial, the 29th February , 1986 
TOUR PROGRAMME FOR MOBILE DISPENSARY EASTERN HILL RANGE 
FOR THE MONTH OF MARCH 1956 . 

Miles 26 
18-8-80 Imphal to Satukoireng 

12 
14-8-56 

Satukoireng to Makokching Janpu 
18-3-86 

Makokching Janpu to Hangoipat 
16-8.66 

Hangoipat to Molkon 
17-8-86 

Molkon to Chavai Tangkhun 
18-3-56 

Halt 
19-3-66 Chavai Tangkhul to Jangooi 

6 
20-3-56 

7 
Janguoi to Chongloi Khulen 
21-3-55 Chungloi Khulel to Gallamthang 

6 
22-3-06 Gallain thang to Changgang 

7 
28-3-86 

Halt 
24-3-56 Chanyang to Khensom 

8 
26-3-66 

khet som to Shongbon 
26-3-56 

Shongbem to Aisan 
27-3-56 

Halt 
28-3-56 Aisan to Imphal 

36 


: 
: 


. 


:: 


Imphal, the 29th February , 1936 . 
TOUR PROGRAMME FOR MOBILE DISPENSARY ( WESTERN HILL RANGES ), 
MANIPUR FOR THE MONTH OF MARCH , 1956 ( CHURACHANDPUR AREA ). 
12-3.56 Imphal to Nalon 

36 Aprx . 

miles . 
13-3-56 Nalon to Phoipi 

12 
14-3-66 Phoipi to Khanpi 

20 
15-3-06 

Halt 
16-3-56 Khanpi to Sanglel 

15 
17-3-56 Sanglel to Lailong 

14 
18-3-56 Lailong to Saichang 

12 
19-3-56 Saichung to Sunting 

9 
20-3-56 

Balt 
21-3-56 Santing to • Maite 

8 
22-3-56 . 

Maite to Thingkou 
23-3.:6 Thingkou to Philan 

11 
24.3-56 Philan to Hiongkot 

12 
28-3-56 Hieng kot to Bijang 

14 
26-3.56 

Hilt 
27-3-56 Bijang to Impbal 

37 


A 


15 


B. M. Singh , 
Offg : Chief Medioal Officer , Manipur . 


Implal, the 28th Fobruary , 1986 . 

No. V. 7. Prass Pub , 55 /IV . 
Sub : - London University Institute of Eduoation Fellowahips 1985-87... 
It is published for luformation that the last date of application meipt 
above scholarship has been oxtended to 10th Marob , 1958 . 

Gopendr . Sharma 
Pablioity Otoep; Manipar. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 7, 1956. 


7 


TENDER NOTICE . 

Imphal, the 22nd February, 1936 . 
No. VY.81/ 6 ... Sealed tendors are invited for the construotion of . Joop garrage 
at the Veterinary and Animal Husbandry office compound at Sapjenthong Imphal. 
Tonders addressed to the Director of Agriculture ( Veterinary and Animal Husbandry ) 
and Fishery , Manipur will be received by the undersigned upto 1. P. M. on the 16th 
March 1966 , and will be opened on the same day before the tenderers. The success 
ful tenderer is to complete the work within 10 days from the date of receipt of 
work order. Sucocksful tenderer will also have to deposit a Caution money of Rs. 50 / 
which will be refunded on completion of the constructions 
Joop garrage — 10 in length , g in breadth, s in height in the front and b in 

height in the back , C. I. Sheet roofiug , O. I. sheet walling on thror 

sides and C. I. sheet door . 
Detailed plans and specifioations can be soon in the Office of the Director of 
Agriculture ( Veterinary and Aniunal Husbaudry ) and Fishery , Manipur. 

M. Kanti Raj, 
Director of Agriculture ( Veterinary and 
Animal Husbandry ) & Fishery , Manipur . 


Imphal, the 3rd March , 1956. 
Sealed tenders are invited from registered contractors upto 3.30 P. M. on 16-3-50 
and shall be opened on the same day at 4 P. M. for the following works . 
81. No. Particulars . Approximate cost. 

Earnest Money. Timo for completion . 
2. Construction of a 

temple, Mandop 
and kitchen at 
Waithoumapal. 

17,160 / 430 / 

6 months. 
2. Extension of the 

existing boys 
Hostel for M.E. 
School at 
Ukhrul. 

19,130 / 480 / 

6 months. 
Detailed plans and specifioations can be seen in the office of the undersigoed on 
any working day within office hours . Tender Forms oin bo had from the office of 
the undersigned on payment of Re.1 /-each . 

E. Krishnan , 

Executive Engineer, 
Highways Division , P. W. D. Manipur . 


Imphal, the 18t March , 1956 . 
No. 6 /CS/ 11/ 55-56 /8. - It is hereby notifitd for general information that, pursuent 
to seotion 9 of the Co -operativa Societies Aut 1947 , the Pishumthong Oinama Leiltai 
Oil Orushing Co-operative Production & Sale Society Ltd. has been registered and 
numbered as 6 of 1955-56 dated the 1st Maroh , of the year one thousand nino 
hundred and fifty six Anno Domini. 

P. C. $ . Bordoloi, 

Assistant Registrar , 
Cooperative Societies , Manipur. 


! 


5. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 7 , 1956 . 


31 


PRESS NOTE . 

Imphal, the 28th February , 1986 . 
No. V. 7. Prose /Pub /65 / 11 .- The Government of India have constitoted # now 
borvico known to the Indian Frontier Administrative Service to fill certain posts in 
the North East Froutier Agonoy , Manipur and Tripura . Seleotion for this worvios 
will be made from : 

(i ) Officers of the Indian Administrative Service, the Indian Foreign Service 

or the Indian Police Service ; 
(ii) Officers who hold or have held permanent short service , temporary or 

emergency commission in the Defence Foroes ; and 
( iii ) Other persons whose applications are forwarded by the Central Govt ., 

the State Govts ., the North East Frontier Agency Administration 

and the Universities . 
2. There are 11 Vacancies of Political Officers in grado I and 7 " vacancies of 
Assistant Political Officers grade II and the time scale of pay admissible to membon 
of the service will be as follows : 

Grado Il- Rs . 350-400-450-450-500-540-30-600 -EB - 3 ()-870-40-950 : - (19 years ) . 
Grade I Rs. 800- (6th year or under )-50-1000-60-1300-50-1800 / - (26 years ). 

The probationery period for those who are directly recruited to the services will 
be one year but the Central Government may , if they think fit , reduce or extend " 
the period of probation in individual cases . According to the existing orders spe 
djal pay of 333% of basic pay with a minimum of Rs. 200 ,- and maximum of Rs. 400 / 
per month will be allowed to those with head quarters in forward Art as . Class I 
Officers · at Shillong will be allowed a special pay of Rs. 150 ,- per month only . All 
Officers in forward areas will be entitled to frce furnished accommodation of a simple 
type on & scale to be decided by the Governor in consultation with Financial Adviser . 
Officers with headquarters at Shillong will be given house rout allowance as allowed 
to other Central Goverument servants stiitioned at Shillong . 

3. Conditions in these areas are totally different from those in the rest of India , 
Inoluding other tribal areas, and require a special type of officer. He must be very 
fit physically and possess special qualities of initiative, imagination , resourcefulness, 
and a broad sympathy for, and an understaudin . of tribal people with an interest 
in their life and customs. Officers will be required to serve in the forward 
in very difficult conditions, as communications ure very poor and social amenities 
bardly exist. They will be expected to live ilmong the tribes, learn their languages, 
manners and customs, and win their confidence and trust . They will also have to 
co - ordinate the activities of the various development departments such as Agricultan , 
Engineering , Health , Education etc. Married Officers, specially those whose wives are 
intorosted in welfare work , will be preferred . 

4 . To the extent suitable candidates are available, upto 20 % of the total autho 
rised strength of the cadre (excluding doputation and leave reserves) shall be filled 
by promotion of offioers belonging to the local services of the North East Frontier 
Agency and the States of Manipur & Tripura on the advice of the Special Saloo 
timp Board . 

8. The last date for submission of application to the Secretary , Ministry at Hx 
ternal Afairs , Govt . of India is 81st March , 1956. Further detaila of the pew marrin 

vill be available from the Secretariat, Home Brunob ; Oor of the Depuy Cami 
maioner, Manipur and Sub- Divisional Offices in the Tribal arous. 

Gopendra Sharma 
Publicity Officer, Manipar. 


a road 


*ANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 7 , 1956 . 


NOTICE 

Imphal, the 1st March , 1956 . 
$wpplications are invited for the fullowing temporary posts in the Public Works 

tment, Manipur in Boules of pay noted - against each plus usual allowances 
able under Rules and will be received in this ofioe upto 31st March , 1966 . 
iounts should state ago, prosent and permanent address, technical qualifications 

and previous experiences if any oto . and must oncluse certifiod copies of 
Hoates of technical qualification and of character from a responsible person . 
or initial pay may be given to sufficiently qualified and experienced persons. 

should also state the minimum salary required and as to when , it given 
antment order , they can be expecte i to join here . 
Name of posts . 

Scales of pay and qualifications. 
( 1 ) Civil Overseur 

120-275 . Minimum qualification . Degree or 

Diploma in Civil Engineering . 
( 2 ) Mechanical Overse:+ r 120-275 . Minimum qualification . Degree or . 

Diploma in Mechanical Engineering . 
(3 ) Survey of 

80.150 . Minimum qualifioation . Passed Matri 

culate with Burveyor s Certificates. 
( 4 ) Draftsipan . 

100-180 . Minium qualification , Diploma in 

Civil Engineering or Draftsmanship . 
( 6 ) Mechanical Foreman , Pay according to qualification and experience , 

should have expərionou of diesel engines. 

E. Krishnad , 
Executive Engineer, Highways Division , 

Public Works , Department 


1 


NOTIFICATION NO. 2 . 

Imphal, the 1812 February, 1956 . 
NOTICE OF SALE OF FISHERIES FOR THE YEAR 1956-57. 
-It is hereby notifit:d for general information , that Govt . fishorice in Manipur 45 
tailed in Annexure I will be sold by public auction , at the ofice of the D. 0 . 
anipur, at Imphal at 11 A. M. on 21-3-56 . for a period of vue year (i. e. from 

-86 to 31-3-57 ) the term of the last settlement buing due to expire on 31-3-86 . 
tending purohasers are invited to be present on the day fixed and bid for the 
Thery Mabals . 

The sale will be nade subject to the following ounditions : 
(1) The officer conducting the sale does not bind himself to accept the highest 

or any bid and reserves discretion to auction the settlement for eitber a lungor 
shorter term than that specified above. Successful bidder will be required to 
roduce a solvency certificate before his bid is confirmed . 

( 2 ) The purchaser shall immediately after acceptance of his bid , where the bid 
Loveds Rs. 100 /- furnish as security & sum equal to one quarter of & year s revenue, 

Rs. 1004- whichever is the greater, and shall require to furnish within 7 days 

the date of sale additional security to the satisfaction of the D. V. 80 us to 
ring up the total amount of the security to one third of the revenue for the full 
forme of the settlement. If the bid is Rs. 100 /- or less , tbe entire bid amount must 
Abe paid immediately after the acceptance of the, bid . 

If he fails to furnish the initial or the additional seourity as prescribed above 
the fishery shall be rosold at his risk in the former cake , forthwith ; in the luter 
OMBO , after issue of the notice prescribed by rule 186, and in other case ho shall 


Visie 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 7 , 1966 


y 


bo bound to make good the difference betweon his bid and the moon 
the subtlequent sale , caloulated on the whole period of settlement 

Brovided that the D.C. may for special reasons, require him to make 
the differenon, between his bid for one year of the settlement and the amou 
tor that period by the subsequent sule . 

© ) " II the purchaser fails to execute a counterpart within one mon 
duto ot austion the fisherg shall be re-sold at bis risk and he shall be bound the one 
the difference between his bid and the amount realised by the subsequent odloute 
on the whole period of settloment. 

Provided that the D. C. many for speeial reasons, require him to make good 
the difference betweon his bid for one year of the settlement and amount 
for that period lay the subsoquent sule. 

( ) If the purchaser fails to execute a counterpart within one month of the dute 
of the auction or be fails to do anytbing which he is required or brand under 
aut-paragraphs (2 ) & ( 3 ) above the D. O. nay further direct that he shall also forfpite 
the security furnished , if any , or any portion of it . 

(6 ) Evory lessee should pay half of one year s revenue on or befure the 16th 
May and the romaining half on or before the 31st July . 

The sum furnished ag security under para ( 2) above shall be adjusted against 
the last instalment payable during the lease (vide Govt. of Manipur Notification No. 191 
of 5-4-00 ) . 

(6 ) In the river fisheries commonly used by the public for navigation no bund 
of any kind may be constructed and use of Mabajal having a rush of less than 87 * 
aquare is prohibited . 

( 7) LORSBLS of bed fisheries should keep the fisheries olear of wator hyacinth . 

( 8 ) Spocial conditions to be observed by the lessons for different fisheries will 
be announced immediately before the sale of the fisheries concerned and will be 
recorded in the bid Begister . 

( 9) Should the lensee or any agent of his infringe any of the conditions of 
bis loano the D. C. may cancell the lease in which case all same paid by the 
LABRIGO on acconnt of the fishery will be forfeited and the longer will be ligble for 
any large jpourred by Govt. in the re-settlemput of the fishery. 
( 1c ) The settlement will be subject to the approval of the Chief Commissioner , Manipur . 

V. S. Sundaram , 
Deputy Commissioner , Manipur. 


- 


-- 


Fishery 

Na 


Namo B Troetion of Fishery , 


Term & priøy for 
which last sold . Boundary . Nom . of 

Kormde witte 
farm . 

1 *** Belle 


Price.. 


NO 


46 


Tandongyan . Theme 


Que your: 11.0 :0 . To be held 

from D.Q. trompro 


olmad 


ber 


Code 


1 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 7, 1966. 


12 


1 


co 


4 


6 


5 
As. 

10 


38 


One year 


10 


No bid 


To be soon 

To be your 
fron D.O s from D.O. 
ofion or 

filoo or 
will be 

prom 

will ba pro 
claimed be- Olaimed be 
for the 

fore the 
male begina. siulo begins .. 


41 


0 


43B 


10 


7 


44 


No bid 


45A 


45B 


10 


Khumbong Itup . 
Awang Jiri Itup . 
Nambol Itup N. R. 
Moitangpok Khunou Tutel 
Lamphelbam Heikrajam . 
Khabikhongbal, Thangtek Meitei 
portion , 
Khubi Khongbal, Thangtek Nage 
portion . 
Khabi Khongbal, Khabi portion . 
Khabi Khongbøl Khaidem village 
portion . 
Nuri Iliden Pathabi N. P. 
Merakhong Kudompokpi 
Thounavja m Itup Waisel Turel 
falling into Akasoi of Leitang , 
Nambul river falling into Yangoi . 
Ireng bam Turel. 


450 


i s 


11 


45D 


12 


12 


No bid 


50 


10 


14 


59 


No bid 


15 


09 


10 


> 


10 


16 


74 


3 ) 


No bid 


17 


75 


Leimaram Turel. 


24 


18 


Dinam Turel falling into Yangoi . 


77 


19 


20 


198 


Heiruk Turel . 


15,50 


19a 


111 


Kumbi Kanguoibi. 


19b 


60 


391 


Turel Phubala , 


Awaligo 


19e 


205 , 
205A , 

206 


Khongjom Turel-Khongjom portion , 
Wangjing portion & Sapem portion . 


145 


80 


199 


Heirol Turel. 


No bid 


w 


21 


207 


Langathol Tarel. 


10 


28 


808 


Keyamgei Turel A hanbi, 


No bid 


28 


811 


24 


331 


Tauthong Tabi . 
Sumairou , Chingkhu . 
Kakching Wairi Louk hong . 
Namthikhong l aorang . 


25 


352 


10 


26 


868 


113 


Hatakpot 


1950 


} 


Wangoo · Villago . 


364 


Lussipat. 


8005 


117 


974 


P 


1 


29 


182 


арhарѕ . 
Leingang - pat 
Khulletpat. Muying Imphal. 


700 


80 


128 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 7, 1958 . 

5 


Ha. 


31 


192 


Oinam pat . 


One year 


230 


. 


32 


16 26 


* 150 


Wangoo Itup . 


To.bw aan 
froin D.O from DOO 
Om 

00 ce ar 
will be prouill be pro 
olalwed by oldim ben 
foto the tore , the 
sale boginn, beglas 


83 


177 


2310 


Kakyai pat . 
Irum Turel Nungoo Spumahi. 


870 


34 


170 


35 


185 


300 


Sekmai Turel near Kakching Wairi . 


86 


209 


Kairembikbok Itop. 


60 


*** 


9 


37 


236 


Poiroupat, 


7660 


S8 


237. 


Poirou Soining . 


255 


... 


89 


286 


305 


Sangkarader Itup , Iril river. 
Waithon Thongkha. 


227 


2400 


229 


Suptuparong . 


41 


231 


Ushoipokpi. 


6110 


42 


150 


Wangoo Itur . 


1526 


43 


123 


Khulakpat. 


... 


700 


205 


Kongjom Turel. 


140 


206 


45 


12 


Kairang Itup, Imphal river. 


.10 


46 


49A 


Sairok Itup 8. R. 


15 


01 


Mamangpat Lourembam . 


600 


>> 


48 


138 


Chabungham Company Itup, Imphal 
river . 


49 


167 


Thongam Dholangpat. 


- > 


215 


50 


174 


Sugau Itup , Imphal river. 


130 


51 


176 


Elungkhang pokpi Maringpat . 


125 


*** 


52 


182 


Hiranmei Turel. 


... 


115 


. 


53 


290 


Irong Nela . 


... 


50 


54 


35 % 


Saganga ba Noongoo . 


280 


55 


342 


Sanamangpat Langjing . 


... 


35 


12 


56 


358 


200 


361 


Mamangpat. 
Uyumpok , Kampoo ypat, Parapat 
Tungjong . 
Toathong Itup. 
Patlelpat Loukhong Avangkhunou . 


57 


811 


60 


58 


876 


32 


N. B. (1) Fisheries from Borial No. 42 to 44 will be sold for the remaining part of the current Ameriut jane 
for non payment of the revenue in fall , 

Cil) Fisherlas from Serial No 46 to 58 have the leaves for the year 1956-57 , la cantine the consen 
their doch instalmente before the date of sale , their sale will be stayed as if they have an buam ad verdwenendo 


Imphal : -- Printed and published by the Superlatendent , Government Press, 0.0177-3.36. 


S. 


Manipur 


Gazette 


1 


सवमा 


re 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


09 


Imphal, Wednesday , March 14 , 1966. . 


1 


Pago 


CONTENTS 

Page 
Apitointments , Postings, Transfers , Powers , 
Leave and other personal notioon , 

1 102 
-Resolutions , Regulations, Orders, Notih . 
ciations , Rulos otc. 


Part III. - Orders, Notifications, Rules of 

the Government of India , 
Part IV .- Advertisements and Noticus 1,0 . 


NII 
to 13 


3 


PART 1 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR. 


Order by the Chief Commissioner. 

Imphal, the 7th March , 1957 . 
c . F -DPC /25 /52-56 . - In pursuance of the orders contained in the late Ministry 
States lettor No. F.65 ( 1)-E 52 dated April 18 , 1953 and No. D.1100 - E /54 dated 

31, 1954, the Chief Commissioner : is pleased to delegate , with immediato 
the powers detail - d in the statement attached herewith , to the Blook Develop 
Officer in charge of the Imphal East National Extension Service Block . 

T. Kipgen , 

Secretary to the Govt. of Manipur. 
POWERS DELEGATED TO THE BLOCK DEVELOPMENT OFFICER , 

IMPHAL EAST NATIONAL EXTENSION SERVICE BLOCK . 


Powerx . 


Extent of powers , 


Powers of the Head of an offic . under 

Full powers , 
F.R , and S.R , and Drawirig an : Diabur 
sing officer for the Proj- et. 
To sanotion expenditure on works. Powers as are enjoyon by an Executive En 

winner of W.D. Wit ! jri the limits of the 

sanctiord etailed uslim tes 
To grnction casual leave. 

Full powers in respect of Government ser 

van s working u der hin . 
To sunctir earned leare including Full pwers in ro - pect of non - gaze - tad . 
leave without pity and allow & lices . Giovernment Hirvents and 7 days at a time 

in ruspect f gazettrd Government servata 

working under him . 
To make appointment to salariot polos . Full pwers in rorprot . of posts ourying a 

pay balo tko mirimum of which does not 
exceed Rs. 6.- p.m. subj.of. t. thx iisual 
course of reuruitment to prescribed by the 

State Government. 
To manatiria sarned incremant sooned . Full powers in respeot of all don gazetted 
ining to pr- soribed rules in respect of Government servante working under bina , 
Bulariod puste . 


) 


1 


2 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 14 , 1958. 


Extent of powere . 


Powers . 


www 


7. To accept resignation of non -gazetted Full powers in respect of Governmart 
Government servants . 

vants holding posts, appointment to whiola 

is made by him . 
With -holding of increments in respect Full powers in respect of Government mor 
of Government servants . 

vants holding posts , appointment to whiola 

is made by him . 
To act as Controlling Officer under 

Full powers in respect of non - gazetted 
Supplementary Rules for travelling Government Servants working noder him . 

allowance claims. 
10. To require medical certificate of fitness Full powers in respeot of all Govt. servants 
bofore return from leave . 

wurking under his control.. 
11. To fix wages of daily rated workers . Upto a maximum of Rs. 4 /- per day . 
12 . 

To discharge or accept resignation of Full powers, 
wurkers on daily rates uf wages. 

Upto a maximum of As. - /4 /-. once overy 
13. To sanction increment of wages to 

6 months provided the total wage after in 
workers , 

crement does not exceed the limit upto 
which he is competent to fix the wage of 

a worker . 
14 . To sanctiun expenditure on mainte Upto Rs. 20 , - for each item of work within 
Dance works. 

sanctioned estimates . 
15 . To sanction contingent expendituro on Upto Rs . 100 /- for a single item of non - re 
items not specifically sanctioned else 

curring nature and Rs. 10 / - per month for 
whore . 

single itrm of recurring Datore . 
16. To sanotion expenditure on advertise Upto i &. 100 /- in a financial year . 

ment charges.. 
17 , To sanction expenditure on derourage Upto Rs . 50 / - for a single cade subject to tho 
charges. 

conditiou that the demurrage charges are 
not due to negligence of any Government 

servant. 
18. To sanction expenditure on local 

Rs 6 /-p.m . in each case subject to a limit 
purchase of stationery . 

of Rs . 50 / - in any financial year. 
19 . 

"to sanction expenditure on . purchase Upto Rs. 100;- par andum . 

of non -official publicatious. 
20. To sanction expenditures on repairs to 

Upto Rs. 200 /- per vehicle per annum . 
motor vehicles. 
To sanction expenditure on purchase 

Upto Rs. 100 /- at a time. 
of Miac . stures for office use , such as 
tumblers , water pots , etc. 
To sauction expenditure on upkeep of At the rate of Ro. 1 /- per mensoma por 
type -writers, calculatiug macbines , eto . 

chine. 
28. To sanotion expendituro on repairs to Upto Rs . 200 /- in each caso of ropairo, eroo 
erection and removal of machinery , 

tion , removal etc. 
equipment and repairs to furniture and 

fixtures . 
24. To sanction expenditure on the por- Upto Rs . 100 /- within sanotioned Detailed 

chase of furniture and fixture - The Estimate . 
limit sball apply t , the cost of furni 
shing one office . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 14 , 1966 . 


PART 0 

Imphal, the Bth March , 1956 . 
No. F -DPC / 2 /53/587-8 . - In continuation of this Administration order No. F - DPOI 
2 / 58 / 267-8 , dated 24-6-55 the Chief Commissioner is pleased to sanotion the con 
tinuance of the temporary post of Project Executive Officer of the Thoubal Community 
Development Block from 1-3-56 upto 31-3-56 and the appointment thereto of Shri 
K. Lamphel Singh for the above period . 

The expenditure is debitable to the sunctioned grant for “ Community Dovelop 
mont Projects - } roject/ Block Head - quarters" under “ 83 - B - Community Development 
Project, NES and Local Developwent Works " for this State for 1956-57 . 


Imphal, the 5th March , 1936 . 
No. F -DPC : 2 53 589 90. - In continuation of this Administration order No. F /DPCI 
2/53, 259-80 , dated 24-5-65 the Chief Commissioner is pleased to sanction the con 
tinuance of the temporary post of Supervisor of the Thoubal Community Develop 
ment Block from 1-3-56 upto 31.3.66 and the Appointment thereto of Shri D. K. 
Home for the above periud . 

The expenditure is dobitable to the sanctioned grant for " l ommunity Development 
Projects - Project,Block Head - quarters” under 63-13- Community Development l rojects 
NEY and Local Development Works “ for this State for 1956-57 . 


linphal, the 5th March , 19:56 . 
No. F -DPC 2 53 591-2 . - 1n continuation of this Adininistration order No, F -DPC 
2,53 / .. 81-2, dated 24-5-55 

the Chief Commissioner is pleased to Banction the con 
tinuance of the temporary post of supervisor of tho Thoubal Community Development 
Block from 1-3-5ti upto 31-3-56 and the appointivent thereto of Shri S. Tombi Singh 
for the abive puriod , 

The expenditure is debitable to the sanctioned grant for " Comuunity Develop 
ment Projects - Projects Block Head - quirters " under " 63- B - Community Development 
Projnots , NES und Local Development Works” for this state for 1976-37. 


T. Kipgen , 
Secretary to the Givt . of Manipur . 


PART IV 


NOTICE No. Compd / Try / Try -21. 

Imphal, the 6th March , 1956 . 
Applications are invited by the undersigned upto 145h March , 1956 at the latest 
Yor adiuission to coinpoundur school, Imphal. Cuudidatos should at leist olass IX 
passed , age must be betweon 17 and 23 years possessing goud health and character . 
The applicants are also required to be prosont at tho office of the underaigned on 
15th March , 1956 ut 10 A. M. to sit in the competitive examination for selejting 
suitablo students and class will start from 19-3-56 . 

The course is for one year and each student should pay & tuition fee of Rs. 34 
( three ) per month . Ten scholarships of Hy. 2 1/- (twenty) each will be awarded to ton 
devorving intelligent students for six months . 

N. C. Bh · wal, 
Chief Medical Officer , Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MAROH 14 , 1988 . 


NOTICE 

Impbal, the 1st March , 1956 , 
Vo. DVC / EST/1 /55 /158 .-- Applications are invited for the following temporary 
poste to the Development Commissioner s Office and will be received in the otalo 
til March 14,1956 . 

( 1) One Upper Division Assistant in the scale of pay of Ra. 100-6-180 / - and 
two Lower Division Assistants in the scale of pay of Rs. 40-2-80 -EB -8-80 -KB - 4-100 ) 
P. m . plus grUHI dearnons allowances as admissible . No one who is not a matriculato 
of reongnised university need apply for the posts . For the post of . U. D. A., 
preference will be given to gradualey with experie 10e in Hooants and for that of 
L. D. As, candiuatus with typing kuowledge and experience in official routine work 
will be preferred . 

Applications should alate : 
(i) Full name and address . 
(ii ) Duto , pluce and district of birth . 
(iii ) Whether married or unmarried , if married , number of wives living and 

children . 
(iv ) Father s name and profession . 
(v ) Educational qualifications ndicating examinations phased , olass or division 

in which passid etc., 
( vi) Previour izpirience , indionting post held salary drawn, period of servioe, 

reasons for leaving the job , and 
( vii ) l etails of experience in rural areas, 
Preforonoo will also be given to candidates who know one or more looal languages. 
Candidates are to attend selection test at thuir own expense if they sro required to . 

V. 8. Sandaram , 
Development Commissiuner , Manipur . 


1 


Imphal, the 10th Marob , 1956 . 
Applications stating general education and technical qualifications, age, pravious 
oxperience if any, Homo nddress are invited frir 2 (two) temporary posts of Surveyors 
in the Irrigation Division ( P. W D.) in the scale of Rs . 80-10-1 0 /- with usual D A. 
and will be thr eived hy the under - igned duriig offive hours upto the 28rd March , 19303 

Other things being equal, preference will be given to persone knowing one or 
more of the local languag s and are familiar with lionl conditions. 

Candidates * te to attend the wffice of the undersigned for interview on the 24th 
Mnich , 1901, with neoekohry certifiotter if there be uny. 

B. M. Sharma, 
Executive Engineer ( Irrigation Division ) , 

P. W.D. Manipur. 


Imphal, thr 12th March , 1986 . 
No. 7.C5,11, 55 56,24.-)! In he why notified for general iatoimation that, parmusut 
to recti 9 of itse Manipur (Co -operative Societies Act , 1947, the Sagalband Silk 
Wouver Production & Sules Co -operative Society Ltd. has been this day regdetared 
in my Offiou as " -riperative Society and numbered as one of 1986-56 , dated olide 
twelve March of the year one thousand niue bundred and ifty six ampo Domiti . 

P. O. S. Bordeloi , 
Asstt. Registrar, Co-operative Soolation , Manipur , 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 14 , 1986 . 


2 


ADVERTIÖMENT . 

Imphal, the 18th March , 1966 , 
No AP /53 /4 ( S )AE .--Applications from bonafide citizens of India are invited for 

teurporary posts of Assistant Engineers under the Manipui P.W.D. in the scale 
my of Ra 200-18-275-EB - 20-876.25-800 /• Plus 178 % dearneks allowance . Suitable 
goe inorements will be given to deserving candidates on the basis of qulifiam 

and experience . Joining T. A , may also be given . .. 
2. Applications with details . of age, qualifications, exporience, copies of certif 
tes and home district should reuob the Executive Eogineer, Highways Division , 

pipur, Imphal not later than 15th April, 1956. Applicants should state the minimum 
hary acceptable and the period within which they will be able to join the post, if appointed 

G. H. Bingh , 
Asstt. Secretary (WAF ) to the Govt. of Manipur . 


Imphal, the 13th March , 1956 . 
Applications stating age , qualification , previous experience , home addregs and 

bor of wives in cree of married applicants are invited for the following posts 
L.P : and M.E. School tuachers and will be received by the undetsigried upto 
th March , 1981. In case of L.P. School teachers matriculates will be preferred and 

M. E. School teacher candidates must have passed the Normal Training or los 
armadi.ste Exininution . 

Candidates are required to attend the office of the Inspector of Sobools on 26th 
arch at 10 A.M. with necessary certificates if any , for interviews. 
No. Samo of school. 

No. of post . 

• Pay sonlo . 
1 . Suwombung M.E. Schonl. 

1 (ons) Rs 75.23-1C0E B - 4-120 /.p.m . witha 

usual D.A. 
2 . Nambasi L.P. Sobool.. 

1 (ona) 

Rs. 30 / - to 40 /- p.m , with usual DA 
8 . Khomidok L.P. School. 

1 (one) do 

.do 
Taron Christian Single Teucher 
Riirul L.P. School . (Quislitica 
tion Minimum Cliss VIII 
passed ) . 1 (one) 

do 
L. M. Singh , 
Inspector of Schools , Manipur. 


19 


do 


Imphal, the 6th March , 1956 . 
Applications stating (i) addresses (permanent and temporary ), ( ii ) nationality, (üi) 
docational and other qualifications, ( iv ) ag s, (v ) number and name of local language 
nown and (vi) number of wives living, if maxiud , ‘and (vii) previous service if 
ny , ia N. O. O. or other similar organisations are invited for the post of Sub- lna 
motors of Police in the scale of Rs . 110 :6-160- E 15-5-2001- to reach the undersigned 

or before 20-3-66 . The candidates will be required to appear before the under 
igned for a test -written and /or viva voce at their own expense . 

None napd apply who has not passed L. A. or 1.8o. examination or othor exa 
Mination of equivalent standard of & racognised University . The candidates must 
not be less than 643" in height and 30 " 14 chante menuurment. 

Subject to . Availability of syitable candidates, 20 % of the vacant poate will begin 
raperved for owndidates belonging to Sohe luled Tribes ani Scheduled Castor who are 
bonafide nativos of Manipur . 

N. C. Glosh , I. P. 8 :, 
Inspector General of Police, Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 14 , 1956 . 


TENDER NOTICE . 


No. VES / IE ,Est /21-56 . 

Imphal, the 1st March , 1966 . 
Sealed tenders superscribed as " Tender for the supply of Furniture for Imphal 
Kast N. E. S. Block Office " are hereby invited for supply of the office furniture and will be 
moovived by the undersigned upto 11 a . m . ( I. S. T. ) of the 16th March 1986 and will be 
opened on the same day . The value of the supply is about H. 1400 / 

Rates should be written both in words and figures. Every Canoellation , arasing , 
overwriting should bear the dated initial of the tendermi. 

Every tender should be accomp snied by a copy of Treysury Chalan depositing 
an earnest money of Rs. 50 /- ( Rupees fifty only ). The eamest money of the 
buccesful bidder will be refunded on completion of the contract. 

Time allowed for completion of the work is 2 ( two ) works from the dato of 
the receipt of written order. The successful tenderer should deliver the furniture at 
the Blook Office at Sawombung . 

The furniture should be of well seasopod Voigtbou timber highly polished . Full 
particulars may be had from the office of the uudersigned during office hours. 
The undersigned does not bind . hinuself to accept the lowest of any tunder . 

Chandrakumar sharma , 
B. D. O., Imphal East, N. E. 8. Blook . 


Iupphal, the 6th March , 1956 . 
Sealed tenders sep rate for, each item or otherwiss are invited for supply of the 
undermentioned items of ration for cunsumption of the prisoners for one year with 
. chalan for doposit of the amount mentioned against ouch item under P - Deposit 
and advances Civil Deposit Reserve Deposit . Tho undersigned will receive tenders 
upto 1 P. M. of 20-3 56 , but he is not bound to accept tho lowest or any tooder . 
8. No. J articulars . 

Monthly requirement Enrnest Lloney . 

• approximate. 
1 . Chicken ( in pucra ). 20 seers . 

Rs. 15 - 
2 . Porom fish ( in pucca ). 1 mound and 2 neers . 

RA. 60 % . 
3 . Salt, Sugar & Sagoo . 2 mds., } md . & respeotively . Rs. 25 / 
Miso . articles . 

KA. 60 / 


T. C. Tiankham , 
Superintendent, Jail Imphal, Manipur . 


Imphal, the 7th March , 1966 . 
PROGRAMME FOR PAYMENT OF AIR FIELD COMPENSATION . 

MARCH , 1956 AT CLAIMS OFFICE 

Air Field Compensation . 

Tnta No , mf CABOS Amount Date of paymrat. 
Name of Air Field 
1. Wangjing 

349 

1 , 0,639 16th , lithuad 17tda 

March , 1938 . 
Y. Gouramani Singh , 
Assistant Secretary (Claims) to the 
. Government of Manipur, Imphal 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 14, 1966 . 


TENDER NOTICE No. 34 . 

Imphal, the 2nd Maroh , 1986 . 
Separate sealed tonders superoribed as “ Tender for 

are invited 
for the exclusive right to extract and trade in lime of the following Lime Stone Quarries 
and will be secuived by the undersigned upto 2 p.m. of 23-3-56. Period of contract 
for Tuishen is three years and for other quarcies — two years . 

Tonderers should firet inspect the quarries and after the sale no complaint will 
be entertained . 

Euch tender must be supported by a Treasury Challan of Rs. ! 00 /- (Rupeos one 
hundred ) for Taupoipi Quiry and of Rs. 23/- (Rupees iwenty five) for other quarries , 
failing which ai teder will be accepted . 

Tbe successful tendører must pay within a week from the date of succeptance 
of tender a security deposit iu Savings Bank Account duly pledged to the Forest 
Offioer Rs. 150 /- (Rupe.:8 ony hundred and fifty ) in case of Taupukpi and Rs. 25 /- (Rupees 
twenty five ) for each other quarries. 

The undersigned is not bound to accept the highest or any tendor. No joint losseo 
will be admitted . 

The name of Lima Quarry to be sold is given below : 

( ) Tungjong ( Above Sugnú ), ( 2) Taupokpi, ( 3 ) Aimonkbunyai ( Near Pallel Nungjeo 
pokpi) - Nungjaopokpi Lime Quarry overlooking Tumitlok , (4 ) Kikobing Khunow . 
( 1 ) Koijam Kunjin , ( wan , Tongow Umang, (7 ) Kakching Khunow Mamang soubom , 
(8 ) Tusuluk Aimon Lime Pit - Herjangpokpi over luckiog Tusulok , (9 ) Sausaks Line 
Quarry (at 37th milestone on Sansuk Road ), (10 ) Tuishen (at about 13 mile away 
from the hill village luishen in Ukhrul at abuut 34 miles on Ukhrul Rad ) and 
(11) Sunurok Quarry on the foot of Gwaltabi Reserve near Sbamusong bill village , 
( 12) Heirang silok Quirry (ab jut 3 and 3 } miles away from Soubon and Kangk banyanbi 
Quurries respectively ). 

Full particulars may be had from the office of the undersigued on any working 
day during offict hours. 

R. K. B. C. Singh , 
Forest Officer , Govt. of Manipur , 


Imphal, the srd March , 1966 . 
12/ F ,55-66.- It is hereby notified for general information that pursuant to section 
89 of the ludian lannership Act IX of 1:33 M /s . Piemchand Jain & Co. , Maxwell Bazar, 
has been jocirporated that it is a Purtnership Firm and vumbered as 12 of 1955-16 , 
dated the 3rd Murch of the year one thuusaud vine hundred and fitty six Anno Dimui 


Imphal, the 3rd March , 1956 . 
13/9/6 -6 ..- . It is bireby vositied for general informatiou that purzuant to Section 
69 of the lidian Prriner - bip Act IX of 1932 M / s . Maipur Builders Associnti su , has 
bmen incorporated that it is a Pnsunership Firm , and wwwberud us 13 of 1955-56 , dated 
the 3rd March of the year ono thousand nine hundred and fifty six Anno Domini. 


OP 


Tuiphui, the 6th March , 1986 . 
14/ F /85-86.- It is hereby notified for general information that pursuant to Bection 
59 of the lasian Partnership Act IX of 1932 M / 8 . Manipur Chemical Works, Uripuk 
Manipur" Imphal, bas been nourporated in my office and that it is a Partnership.firm and 
num hered Hs 18 of 1965-58 , dated the 6th March of the your one thousand aina 
hundred and fitty Bix Anno Domini. 

U. M. Sipba , 
Registrar , Firm , Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 14, 1956. 


NOTICE No.5A of 1955-56 . 

Impbal, the oth March , 1956 . 
Notice is hereby given that license for the undermentioned Ganja Shops will be 
sold by tendor system for the year 1966-87 on the 23rd Maroh , 1956 nabojot to 
the following conditions 
( 1) The loons will give the right of opening a shop only at the site named 

in the list below . The period will be from the lat. April, 1966 to the sia 

·Marob , 1967 . 
( 9 ) The license will be mettlud at a fixed rate of vend tou . 
(8 ) Tender at fixed rate is to be submitted to the Inspector of Etoivo, on 

before the day of the 22nd March, 1986 in the following form iá a nended 
dover . A couptuace of the tender will be subject to the approval of the Deputy 
Comiuinsioner . 

TENDER FOR GANJA SHOPS . 
1. · Name of shop . 
2. Rate of vend fee at which tender is wade . 
S. Namo and address of the tenderer . 
4. Signature of witnesses to the tender. 

( 9 ) 
8. Signature or thumb impression of the tenderor with white . 

Lach tender shall bear # Court fee stamp of Rs. 5 ). Ouly . The rosult of the 
mottlement will be 4.190unoud vn the 23rd March , 1966. Any shop bot mottled on 
the teudor system will be sold by any other netbod as may , be prescribed by thm 
D. Q. The undersigned is not bwuud to acoapt my particular tender or the higbust 
or any bid . 

( 1). The purchaser will be required to pay two monthoºfcos on the date of sale , 
ono month s leo un the date on which the ourrency of the license bogins and one 
month s fou on the first of every succeeding month until the total fee due for the 
license has been realised . 

(6 ) When a license is knocked down or the result of the settlement under the 
tender system is announced the purchaser is liable for any loss thout way 
to Govt. in oase it looum s necessary 10 re -sell it for a lower license for or to ren 
settlo.it in consequence of his failure to psv the sum payaulo at the time of sale . 
Each tender whose tender is accupted , is liable to this condition in case of bia fain 
lure to make good bis bid or tonder and will be liable to pay the love as provided 
in Seotion 38 of the Estera Bengal and Ausuna Exoise Act , 1910 . 

(6 ) If for any valid reas in a license after its sale be refused to the purchaser, 
$ ha surance deposit or security prid by him will be refunded . 

(7 ) The torm of license will coin manos from the 1st April, 1956 and the purchaser 
is required to open his shop on the day his term of license couponoes or on such 
date as the D. C. may order, failing which his advance deport paid by him will 
the forfeited and his license will be cancelled and re -sold at bis ruak and be will be 
liable for any lues that may accrue to Government by ro-bate . 

(8) The license will got be transferable nor will it be sublet without the order 
of the Deputy Coipuissione !”. 
( a ) Ven toe Cost P rice Duty 

Agent s 

Purchase price Ratin 
oomajnsion . from the agent 

prion 
kr. 6/11 Rs. 6 / 18 / Rm 10 /- Ra. 1/ 7 /- excluding vand foe 

Ra, 
par wher per seer 

per seer 

Per 800k 


door 


B. 18 / 8 


jer sear 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 14 , 1986 . 


81. No. 


Tabasil in which situated . 


1 . 
2 . 
3 , 


Site of shop . 
Khwairamband Vipa Keithel. 
Lamlong Pazar. 
Bishenpur Bazar . 
Kakching Bazar . 
Sekmai Bazar, 
Singjamei Bazar. 
Moirang Bazar . 
Kalibari Bazar. 


Imphai West Tahasil. 
Imphal East Tabasil . 
Bishenpur Tabasil . 
Thoubal Tabasil, 
Imphal West Tabasil , 
Imphal West Tabasil . 
Bishenpur Talasil , 
Jiribam . 


5 . 
6 . 
7 . 
8 . 


N. N. Bingh , 
Inspector of Excise , Manipur. 


Imhal, the 10th March , 1906 . 

TOUR PROGRAMME 
FOR N. M. C. P. SURVEY WORK IN TENGNOUPAL AREA . 
Date . 

Namo of villago . 
12-3-66 Imphal. 

Lamkang Khulen . 
13-3-56 Lamkang Khulen 

Lowa Khulen . 
14-3-56 Lewa Khulen 

Yaphow 
1 :1-3-56 Yaphow 

Lamphow Pasapha . 
16-3.50 Liumphow Pasanha 

Firan Khulen 
17-3-56 l iran Khulen 

Anan Rbulen 
18-3-56 Anan Khulen 

Chakpi Kangbung . 
19-3-56 Chukpi Kangbung 

Nunyphoora . 
20-3-56 Nung phoora 

Konsan 
21-3-56 Kopsan 

Anthem Chayang 
22-3-56 Anthem Chayang 

Purum Khulen 
23-3-56 Purum Khulen 

Phunan Sambung 
24-3-66 Phunan Sumbung 

Imphal. 

Bhawal, 
Chief Medical Officer , Manipur . 


- 


On 


Iniphal, the 10th March , 1956 . 
THE BRUSH - ABOE GROUP COMMONWEALTH SCHOLARSHIPS SCHEME 1956 . 

The Brush -Aboe Group of Companies ir the United Kingdom have offered 
Hoholarship for practical training of an Indian national in their factories. The value 
of the scholarship, which is tunable for two years , is about £ 330 per anottun. 
In addition the Group will provide free return passage from the place of resin 
widence to the place of training in the United Kingdom . 

Candidates should have a first class Degree or an equivalent qualification in Mooban 
hical or Eleotrical Engineering and should have graduated in 1965. Graduates 
öf 1953 or 1984 may also be considered if they have exceptionally good practical 
experience in their chosen profession , 

Further information and application forms can be had from the Principals of 
Bytneering Colleges providing Mechanioal and or Elootrical courses or from the 
Hiustry of Ed uontion (scholarships Division - 8.9 ) . The last date for reopipt of applt 

itions in the Ministry through the Houd of the institution . laget attonidad & 814 
Morob , 1956 

Gopendra Sarma, 
Publioity Officer , Manipur. 


10 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 14 , 1966 . 


1 


3 


5 


1 


Impbal, the 10th March , 1956 , 
PROGRAMME FOR PAYMENT OF A.R.M. COMPENSATION MONEY FOR 

THE MONTH OF MARCH , 1986 . 
Hl. No. Date of payment. Naino of village. No. of payees 

Amount . Total 
2 

4 
1 . 12.3.56 . (Mon ) Tushen 

124 

5,739 
2 . 13.8.56 . ( Tue ) 

Somdal 

163 

3,678 
3 . 14.3.06 . (Wed ) Choithar 

106 

13,831 
15.3.56 . ( lbur) Nungshopg 

54 

16,583 
3 . Changa 

13 

414 
6 . 16.3.86 . (Fri) Chingai 

55 

16,642 
7 . Alang 

21) 

1,13 % 
8 . 17.3.56 . (Sat ) Shiata 

26 

6,674 
9 . 19.3.66 . (Mon ) Datum 

18 

2,220 
10 . Kagom T. Marin 

24 

6,884 
11 . Hangkou 

12 

428 
12 . 20.3.56 ( Tue ) Gamnom 

12 

8,106 
13 , Mongkot Cheru 

72 

4461 
14. Nongdam ( T & K ) 

70 

2,197 
15 . 21.3.56 (Wed ) Lushat 

20 

66+ 
16 . 

Tushem Sout 

26 

1,026 
17 . Meiring 

54 

9,975 
18. 22.3.56 ( Thur) Nungou ( T & K ) 

3,633 
19 . Phungtha 

27 

1,737 
80 . Kimong Asbang Khullen 

20 

6 9 
91 , 23.3.86 (Fri ) 

Tolloi 

230 

8,801 
22 . 24.3.56 ( Sat ) 

1,06,560 / 
( Rupees one lakh six thousand five hundred and sixty ) only . . 

Bashiruddin Ahomod , 
Sub -divisional Officor , Ukhrul. 


. 


NOTICE No. 3 . 

Imphal, the 8th March , 1956 . 
Collection of water rate for the year 1956-57 will commence from 1st . April , 1986 . 
Failure to pay water rate befor Ist October , 1958 shall involve payment of a fine . 
of As../8 /- in addition. Persons failing to pay wster rate even before 1st April, 
1967 should be liable to pay a further amount of As.- /4 . on account of process fee. 

R. K. Snahal Singh , 

Taxation Officer , Water Rate Deptt . 
chilas ale 8 

Imphal, the 8th March , 1950 . 
অসিনা না ওই মণিপুর শিং খাজনা থিরি এক্স পুমা খাতুরি । 

Sagb-ga ba fe un 

cafti ofera o for Dry Ben stora tot un 
to lepa so se staatfa o 
Afacetero con un gran utama ne tik many extra i 

Sara tot afeta to w stanari 
नियोका सबमि ( पत्रिवाना my gay firmy toan ) catata lo foffer to the al costata 1 

: : wentare, 
tam ( ut ab ) 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 14 , 1966 . 


Imphål, the 14th March , 1956 . 

1956 MINICIPAL ELECTION IMPHAL , 
Final list of Candidates Maintained under Rule 23 of the Rulos 

for the Election of Members of Municipal Board in Manipur. 
No. of Ward . Name of Candidates 3egistered : 

Symbols assigned : 
Ward No. I. 1 . Abungbam Kabui 

Plough. 
2. Leimupokpum Guni Singh 

Pakki. 
3 . Nameinglei Kabui 

Umbrella . 
4. Namoirakpam Kuala Singh 

Bicycle . 


Ward No. II . 


1 . Ayok pam Birimangol Singh 
2. Kongbrailatpam Bornthakıır Shurma 
3. Liigram Manaohi Singh 
4. Matbiuhom Kabui 


Bicycle . 
Hurricane lamp. 
Human Hand . 
Umbrella . 


Ward No. III. 


... 


1 . Angom Hiramani singh 
2, Haoham Tombionda Singh 
3. Khongbantabam Ibetombi Singh 
4. Korthoujam Kanhai Singh 
6. L simaguin Krishnachandra Sharma 
6 . Laisram Nimni singh 
7. Ningthoujam Ajit Kumar Singh 
8. Nongmaithem Gopal Sing 
9. Salam Gambhi Singh 
10. Takhelsangbam Brajanani Singh 
11. Trilokchand Patni 
12. Yunnam Nilamani Singh 


Boat. 
Plough . 
Bicyole . 
Cart . 
Palki. 
Kodali . 
Hut. 
Axe . 
Human Band . 
Hurricane lamp 
Umbrella . 
Scale . 


: 
: 
: 


Ward No. IV , 


1. Angum Hiramani Singh 
2. Anaipa 
3. Ladulal Jain 
4. Mudan Gopal Bajaj 
5. Ningthoujım Ajit Kumar Singh 
6. Sinum Nodinoland Singh 
7. Trilokchand Patni 
8. Thoupaojam Tonscna Singh 


Boat. 
Kodali . 
Cart , 
Bir ycle . 
Hut. 
Plough . 
Umbre la . 
Human Hand . 


Ward No , V. 


1. Akoijam Birhari Singh 
2. Koijam Chauba Singh 
3 , Karam iaipak Singh 

Kakchingtabam Goverdhon Sharma 
6. Loureinbam Nityai Singh 
6. Longjam Thambou Singb 
7. Thounnojam Ihoyaimu Singh 
.8 . Yumnam Keipha Singh 


Umbrella . 
Plough . 
Kodali . 
Emr cane lamp. 
Bicycle . 
Palki. 
Hut. 
Cart . 


:: 


T. 0. Tian kham , 
Sr. E. A. C. & Magistrate i/o Municipal Election , Imphal. 


-. 


12 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 14 , 1986 . 


PRESS NOTE 

Imphal, the 2nd March , 1956 . 
No. DVC / EST/ 4 /55 / 301. Training faoilitiøs in Tiles Industry ape svailable on 
deputation by the Government of Manipur. Particulars can be obtained from the 
office of the Development Commissioner during office hours . 

Non - employment by the Government is assired , the prospects are that the traingan 
on return after completion of the training , will be ablo to start cottage industri 
for the manufacture of tiles . 

V. 8. Bundaram , 
Development Commissioner; Manipar . 


1 


1 


cation Rev. 86 /D.C . 

or $ 21310 y g 
opfang efirit of: >>>106 a caricat a Rev. 1.56 . D. C. Ble 001 :17 
77: Rev. 2.66 . D. C : 94 afin oric. or affratat 197977 oterant 1791 # Tantra from 
রান্ত .খনােই অমসুং মতন শাংথরয়ােই অদুনা প্রজা পুমা খষ্টা ১৯৫৫-৫৬ ইগ লেী ইংখোলা খাল 
অং ৩১৩৫৬ ইং ফাওগী মং জরিমানা লিংদনা মাংজৌননা ঋলোকপিউ হয়না এ গুম হয়ে । মা 
গী মা অসিম খংহনরি মাদুদি নুংথিল পুং ৩ বা মতুংদা খানা লৌবা মারােই নাম অসিনা প্রাণ 

7 very sado - cy in CO Berator ay নতম চানা মানেনা তা ৩১৩৫৬ ই কাণ্ডব ২ 
কালােপিউ হায়না অমুক হ নিংশিংজরি । 
ইশ্যাল , ফেয়ারি ১২ , ১৯৫৬ 

fo : qoymate , 

fonts forparta , afaceri 
T houbal, the 3rd March , 1966 . 
No..CP / 1-19 /53 . Quotations are invited from intending bidders for supply of one 
Almirah (without kum ) of Uniugthoa well sousoned timbur, plate glass doors 

doors in 
b x4 x21 with five shelves furnished with a prootaotive coat of french polish with 
first class door handle & lock and key complote for the Thoubal C. II. P..H . Qrs , 
Library and will be recoivod be the undersiynet up to the 19th March , 1966 . 

Goods should be supplied within 4 days from the date of order issued at the 
Project H. Qre . 
Details may be had from the Community Projert Office during office hours. 
N. B , Rates should be quoted both in words and figures . 

K. L. Singb . 

Project Executive Offiseur , 
NOTICE No. ME ( P ) 

Imphal, the 8th March , 1956 . 
It is bereby notified for general informatiou that in exercise af the powers con 
ferred upon me by proviso of Rule 48 read with Rule 25 of the Municipal Elpotion 
Rules , I hereby tix the programme of Municipal Election as under : 
Nape of Ward . Polling booth fur Polling bouth for Date of Hours of 

male . 

fimule . 

Election . poll . 
Ward No. I. Tampbadana Girls 

2-3-56 . From 9 I. 
High School. High School, 

to 6 P , X. 
II . Johnstone High Johnstone High 

do 

do 
Solool, 

School. 
III . Public Library . 

Polo Pavilion 

do 

do 
IV . Tombisana High Tomabisana Higla do 

do 
School. 

School, 
V. Girl M. E. School, Girki Aided High do 

do 
Singjamei. 

School, Singjumeix 

T. O. Tiadkhalim 
Sr. 2. A. O , & Magistrate ia . 

Municipal Election , Imphal. 
Imphal :-Printed and fablished by the Superintendont, Govornment Press , A - 311 /14-3-36 


ok 


A w.. 


- 


- 


Manipur 


Sre 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 70 - E - 25 


Imphal, Friday March 16 , 1956 . 


GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR . 


Order by the Chief Commissioner. 


NOTICE No. ME ( Q ). 

Imphal, the 16th March , 1956 . 
Notice under Rule 2812 ) is hereby circulated for tbe information of the 
public particularly of the electors of Ward No. I of Imphal Municipality 
that the votes of the electors in Column 2 of the Scl edulo below shall be 
himecorded in the buoths shown in the 2nd column of the samo schedulo . 


SCHEDULE 


Particulars of voitun 


Name of 
Ward . 


Boutlet wl: crrin Vuie s 
shall be ricorded . 


Remarks , 


2 


3 


Ward 
No. 1 . 


Final Rolls - Male voters from Sl. 
No. 1 to 277 & from Sl. No. 4 0 ) to 
492. 


T. G. High School 

( Bioti :-1) 


· D., - ! Routh - 2 ) 


Final Rolls -females from Sl. No. 1 
to 116 s . from Sl . No. 139 to 262 . 
linal Rolls - 11 & lo voters from Si. 
No. 274 to 489 . 
Final Rolla . Females from Si. No , 
117 to 138 and from Sl. No. 63 
to 305 . 


Chur - chand lich 

Schvol 
(Single Booth) for 
Mal & Female . 


1 


T. C. Tiankham , 
E. A. C. & dlagistrutu ile 
Municipal Election , Impbal. 


12 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 14, 1988... 


4 * 


MANIPUR GAZETI E , MARCIL 16 , 1951 . 


NOTICE No. ME (R ) . 


Imphal, the 16th March , 1954 . 
Notice is herebus circulated for the information of public particularly of 
the electors of Ward No. 1 of Im bal Municipality that there will be ; 
Polling liooths in Ward No. 1 instead of two bruths notified earlier 
The additional houth will be located in Churechend High School. 


8s 


T. C. Tiankham , 
E. A. C. & Magistrate i/c 
Municipal Election , Imphal, 


Imphal Prinie 


ar Dubost o by Lil Sad , Ideat Goull... , 


{ • C. 21 16-3-56. 


1 


-- 


Manipur WUL Gazette 


Dit het ETAN 


1 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 71 


Imphal, Wednesday , March 21 , . 1956 . 


CONTENTS 


1 


Page 


Pago 


1 to 2 


Part I.- Appointments , Postings, Transfers , Powers, 

Love and other personal notions, 
Part II.Rorolations, Regulations, Ordera , Notif . 

cations , Rules etc. 


Part III .- Orders, Notifications, Rules of 

the Governmont of India , 
Part IV .- Advertisements and Notices eto . 


NII 


2 to 3 


-- 


PART 1 
GOVERNMENT OF MANIPUR. 

Orteps by the Chief Commissioner. 

Imphal, the 1st March , 1956 . 
No. DPC , 6 54,679 . - The Chief Commissioner • is pleased to accord sanction to 
the crration of temporary post of the District Social Education Organiser in the 
onle of Rs. 100-10-130 -E B - 6-190-10-25 );- plus a special pay of Rs. 50 /- p. m . in the 
#ducation Department, Manipur with effect from the 1st Marob , 1956 upto the 
od of Februiry , 1967, and to appoint Shri Th. Gouro Singh , Chief Social Edu- . 
pation ürganiser , Thoubal Community Development Bluok, to that post with effect 
From the date of his joining for the above period . 

The expenditure is dobitabla to the sanctioned Education Budget for the year 1956–57. 
Further, in superbession of this Administration Order No. C /HDE /89 /64 /90 datod 
6 56 the Chief Commissioner is pleased to relieve Shri Th. Modbu Singh , Director 
SOATA Youth Welfare , of the duties of the Social Education Officer , 


M. Gojendra Singh , 
Assistant Secretary ( Education ) 

to the Govt. of Manipur. 


Imphal , the 12th March , 1956 . 
-MD / 100 / 55. - The Chiel Commissioner is pleased to appoint Dr. Budhimanta 

Assistant Surgeon Grade I with effect from th : 1st March , 1986 on the 
Ba 20.7-10-250-15-10 ) (EB )-25-500 /- 3 will be in sbage of Pablio Hialth 
( including B , C. G. & Auti Malaria work ), until further ordors. 


is , 


:: 


K. G. Singh , 
Assistant Secretary (MYT) 
to the Govt. of Manipur. 


[ 


et 


„MANIPUR GAZETTE, MARCH 21, 1956 


ORDER No. 2 of 1986 . 

Imphal, the 13th March , 1986 , 
In continuation of my order No. 21 of 1956 dated 24-6-15 , the servion of Shri 
KL Kunjabekari Singh as Registrar in this Court is allowed to continue fur , further one 
year with effoot from 1-3-86 . vice Shri L. Mud hob chandra Ray , appointed as Addi 
tional Munsiff vide Chief Chain ission : r s or.lor N. J/ 18 64 (b ) dated 18t Marob , 1986 , 

Brij Narain , 
Judicial Cowmissioper, Manipar. 


R 


PART 1 

Imphal, the 13.h March , 1956 . 
No. Vety / 2 /53 / (a ).- The Chief Commissioner is pleased to adoord gavotion to the 
extension of the tenure of the temporary post of Animal Husbandry Officer , orosted 
vide Govt . of India s letter No. G.10 )-2,55 -States dated the 6th November, 1956 for 
ODO year with effect from 1st March , 19.16 upto the end of February , 1951. 

The expenditure will be met from the sanctioned budget of the Veterinary Department 
for 1966-87. 

K. G. Singh , 
Asstt. Secy . (MVT) to the Govt. of Manipur . 


NOTIFICATION , 

Dated Shilling , the 14th March , 1956 . 
Subject : - Submission of Annual Establishment Return by Heads of offices . 
No. T.M./30.55/44.-Attention of all Heads of offices /Departments both central 
and state is invited to Rule 119 of the central Gort . coinpilarion of General Finan . 
cial Rules vol. 1 and Rule 158 of the Asian Financial Rulhe as amended by O.S. 
No. 149 and 150 respectively which reqniros that a detailed statement of the ottore 
blishment existing on the 1st April should be prepared by ench Heads of offices/ 
Department and transnaitted to the Audit officer direct as soon possible not 
later than 15th May . It is heruhiy raquisted that suitable tops may kindly be 
taken to ensure the submission of Annual Rebirns of Esta li hment ( including por . 
sonel holding temporary non gazetted posts in superior pensionable services against 
temporay sanctions) as on the 1st April to this ofti sa on or byfora 15th May , 1956 
as required by the Rules, The Returns will have to be sent in duplicato 

H. 8 , Samuel, 
Deputy Accountant General, (I) , A NAM . 


-- 


Imphal, the 16th March , 1966 . 
No. T.7 PressPub /55-56 , III .- The undermentioned document is published for 
general informatiou . 

Gopendra Sharma , 

Publicity Officer, Manipur. 
GOVERNMENT OF UTTAR PRADES II 
PUBLIC HEALTH DEPARTMENT 

MISCELLANEOUS. 
No. 1098 (0) /1098/55.- Wherhag the Governor of the Uttar Pradesh : ja parisfied that 
there is danger of outbreak of infectious distasok at the Ardh Kumbh Mela at Bardwar, 
and the ordinary provisiran 8 of law.for the time being in foroa are insuficient to prevent 
their outbreak and spread . Now , therefore , be is pleased to make the following reguli 
tions under section 2 of the Epidemic VineA8@ 8 Act (Act No III of 1897 ). 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 2i, 1956 . 


3 


ing 


I. 
During the period March 14 tu April, 13 , 1956 both days inclusive, no person , other 
tban military personnel on duty , children below three years of age and persons bolding 
Fermits signed by the Director , l eputy or Assistant Director of Medical and Health Ser 
vice proposing to travel to any of the atutions specified below shall travel by railway , 
or purchase a ticket for travelling by railway to any of the said stations, and be carried 
on apy railway during the afuresaid period unless ho bolds a certificate of having breu 
inuculated against choleru dáted not prior to Januury , 1966 signed by a Medical 
Officer or Medical Officer of Health or Sanitary lospoctor of Epidemic Assistant in 
the service of Government or a local body . 

Northern Railways . 
Bhaksar Dehra Dur. 

Najibu bad - Ballid 

Hardwar- Rishikesh 
Section . Klieri section . 

Section . 
1. Lhaksar. 1 . Bala wali ; 

1. Hardwar ; 
2 . Aithal. 2. Ruisi ; 

2. Raiwála ; 
3. Puthii , 8. Lhaksar ; 

3. Rishikesh ; 
4. Jwalapura . 

4 . 

Daugpi ; 
8. Hardwar. 

5. Landaura ; 
6. Ruiwala 

6 , Roorkee ; 
7. Kansrao . 
8. Diowals . 
9. Harrawala . 


+ 


U. 


During the period March lange to April 13 , 1966 , both days inclusive, no person 
other than military personnel on duty , and children below three years of age shall be 
carried by any vehicle or boat to the ures from Hardwar to Lacbm :injbuls and 
within x radius of ten miles of them unless he holds a certificate of having been 

aoculated against cholera dated not prior to January 1, 1916 , signed by a Medical 
Officer , Medical ( iffic or of Health , Epidemic Assistant or Sanitary Inspector in the 
service of Government or alac: hady. 

III. 
(i) During the period March 14 to April 19, 1956 , both days inclusive, vo per. 
BOU shall enter the Melit areas H8 defined in clause ( vi) below unles ho carrios # 
eartifionte from * Medical Othcar , Medical Othcer of liealtb or Epidemic Assistant or 
Sanitary Inspect r in the service of Government or a local body showing that he 
bus breu inoculated . ugninst cholera on a date vot prior to January 1,1956 . 

( ii ) Every person shall produce such certificate on demand to any member of 
the police and health staff on duty in the mela ares . Provided that if the person 
outering the Mila area is a child below 14 years, the paront or guardian or other 
person in whose charge ho is shall be required to proluce such certificate in res 
pect of the obild . 

(iii) A person who is unable to produce the anti- cholera inoculation certificate 
referred to in clausa ( i) shall get himself inoculated at the inoculation post at one 
of the burriers in the Moli area before he is allowed to pass within the barrier, 

( iv ) Trie di-trict Magistratu , Saharanpur , or the efficer-in -charge of the Mola , or 
any person authorist d by them in this bx half may prohibit from entering into ox 
remaining in Mela area any person who fails to produce a certifioate or refuses to 
get himself inoculated 28 required by clases (ii) or ( iii). 

(v) . These regulations shall not apply to militar y personnel on duty or children 
ander tbree years of age . 

(vi) " Mela area means the area from Hardwar to Lechmadjbula and within m 
radius of ten miles of them . 

By order , 
K , C. Mittal, 

Secretary , 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 31, 1966 


now 


PART I 
TENDER NOTICE No. 88 . 

Imphal, the 9th March , 1956 . 
Soparate sealed tenders are invited for the construation of the tailowing 
Buildings of Forest Departinent. Tenders will be roeived by the endórsigued up to 
RO P. M. on the 28th March , 1955 and will be spened on tho same day in the pret 
herios of the tonderers. The Treasury Chalan for the amnest money dopout whorld 
be enclosed in the tender . Detailed plays and specifioutions can be seen in the 
Forost Office on any working duy within offiou hours . The undersigaod does not bind him 
solf to accept the lowest tender and may reject any tend :r without hasigaing any roupas : 


81. No, 


Particulars of work . 


Approximate Earnest monry Date of som 
Oust. He. depusit , Hill pletion 


1 . 


New construction of a C. I. shret 
roofing , Sahi Kuhi post kitcheu of 
the size of 15 * 9 , fencing of 80 rft 
and a Lutrine at Sekmai . 


70 - 


38 / 


29. 3. 06 . 


2 . 


New construction of a thatoh roof. 
ing , Sahi Kuli Post Kitchen of 
tho siyo uf 15 x 10 and a latrina 
at Sagolmang . 


255, 


29. 3. 56 . 


K. K. B , C. Singh , 
Forest Officer, Govt. of Munipar. 


Imphal, the 14th March , 1956 . 
Sauled tenilors are invited for supply of the following liveries for Grado IV 
employees of D. Jl. Collage , Imphal. Successful tunderer is to deposit 10 % of the 
value settled . Tenders with sample of cloth will be received by the undersigand 
upto 23,3.56 . 
Name of liveries . 

No. of liveries . 
Khaki coat 
Khaki long pants 

28 
White ba t (id yds, long ) 

28 
Khaki baversack 

2 

Nanda Babu Sinha , 
Ofig . Principal, D.M. Odlego, Imphal . 


Imphal, thu 2 1st March , 1956 . 
No. 10 / C $ 11/55-56 / 14. - It is bereby notified for general information that , pur 
suant to Beotion 9 of the Manipur Co- operative Societies Act, 1947 , th . Kongto 
Ksbetri Leikai Weavers Co -operative Society Ltd has beun this day registered in any 
Ofico as Co -operative Broiety and numbered 10 of 1955-56 , dated the twaaby Baumar 
Mapol of the year one thousand nine hundred and ifty slx Apao Domini. 

P. C. 8. Bardola , 

Assistant Registrac , 
Ço.of erative Focietien , Manipulare 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 21, 1956 . 


5 


NOTICE 

Imphal, the 14th March , 1936 . 
No. 8 / CS / II/55-56 / 16. - It is hereby notified for general information that, pursirunt 
to nootion 9 of the Manipur Co -operative Societies Act , 1947, tbe Khangab , k ( o 
operativo Farming Society Ltd. has been rogistered and numbered as of 196 1-66 dated 
the 14th Maroh of the your one thousand nine hundred and fifty six Anno Domini. 


Imphal, the 15th Varcb , 1976 . 
No. 9 /CS/ II 55-56 . - It is boruly nutitind for gever.l information that, pursuant 

Suction 9 of the Manipur Co -operative Nou moins Act , 1947, the Lilong Hlore 
Teavers Co -operative l roduction & als Society Ltd. has been this day ragistert d 
* my Ofico as Co -operative society and numbered as 9 of 1955-56, dated the 
Kreepth March of the your que thousand nine hundred and fifty 81x Auno Domini. 

P. C. S. Bordaloi, 

Assistant Registrar , 
Co- operative Societies , Manipur. 


Imphal , the 19th March , 1956 . 
Applications statiug ( i) adreses (perm inent ani tenporary ), (2 ) nationality , ( 3 ) 
Huoational and other qualificatio nt, (4 ) a " ), (» ) rum ap of wite or vives living , if married , 

names of local languaves known, are invited for the post of Constables of the 

nipur police (Unarmed Branch , in the scale of ks. 23-30 (on com , letion of train 
ing)-1-0 with usual D. A. 

Candidatos must be healthy young men ordinarily betworn the ages of 18 and 
35 having not less than 5 - 3 * in height anl 31" in chatme usur -mert. 

20 % of the vacancies are rescrved for suitable candidates belonging to the scho 
duled Tribes and Scheduled Castey who are bunafide notives in this State . 
Applications should reach the undersign.d by 10th April, 1956 . 

N. ( 5. Ghosh I.P.S., 
Inspector General of Police , Manipur, 


THE ROYAL SOCIETY 
Tropical Research Fellowship (Medical Sciencies ). 

Imphal, the 19th March , 19.56 . 
Applications are invitel by the Council of the Rynl Smciety for a Research 
Fellowship with spooinl refereich to ill haulth in th : tropics Thy Fellowship is 
tonable in any university , hus: ital or medical school or other institution approved 
by the Royal Suciety in thu British CimmunwHalth . The Huco - g « ful ap : lica t who 
Dead nnt nacOqsarily hold a medical 

qinliticalion 

will be expected to spend s me 
part of the period of tenure in the tropics, 

The appointment will be for tw years in the first instance, froin 10 to her 1958 , 
and may be renewed annually up to # tot.l of five years . It will be subjict to 
the conditions governing Royal Soci -ty Rree -roh Appuinm -ats . The stipend will be £ 1260 


per annum . 


Applications which should be made on forms to be obtained from the Assistant 
Secretary , the Royal Society, Burlington House, London , W. 1, should be received 
early as possible , in any case not liter trian , th April , 1966 . 

Gopendra Sharma , 
Publicity ufficer, Manipur. 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 31, 1960 . 


NOTICE . 

Imphal, the 21st March , 1936 . 
No. 11/C3/ 01 /55-56 /8 .-- It is hereby notified for general information that, pursuant 
to Section 9 of the Manipur Co-operative Societies Act, 19 17 the Wabang buma Awang 
Loikai Weavers Co-operative Society Ltd. has been this day esgistered in my Offion * 
As Co-operativo Society and numbered As 11 of 1953–86 , dated the twenty first Marot 
of the year one thousand nine hundre ) and fifty six Anno Domini. 

P. C. S. Bordoloi, 

Assistant Registrar, 
Co -operativo Societies, Manipar. 


CORRIGENDOM . 

Imphal, the 14th March , 1966 . 
Add the words " in addition to his present duties " after the wurds " three montbo * 
acourriag in the 7th line of this Administration Order No. CA / 44 /66 dated 15 2.56 
oirouluted under this Secretariat Memorandum No. CA / 44 56 dated 29.2.56 . 


A. K. Ray , 
Chief Secretary to the Govt . of Manipur. 


THE ROYAL SOCIETY 
Smithson Research Fellowship . 

Imphal, the 19th March , 1956 . 
The Committor representing the Royal Society and the University of Oumbridge 
in vites applications for the Smithson Rosvacch Fellowsh p .. 

This Fellowship is open to British snbjeots , including subjects of the Empire , 
without distinction of sex . 

In nocordance with the begiugh of the Inte M : E. W. Smithan, tho olject of 
.the Fellowship 18 to promote research in natural science, with the view to the dia 
covery of new laws and principles , raiher than the exploitation of what is known . 

Preference will be given to candid ites not more thao thirty - five yourt of age . 
The appointment will be mudo for fur yours from 1 Outobor, 1986, but may 

în 
exceptional ciroumstanos bo ren :wed by. the Coininities for further periods of one 
year each . The stipend will be at the rate of £ 1000 a year and the Fellow will 
be required to contribute to a superannuation scheuna. Normally the Follow will be 
required to carry out liis Tugearch in the University of Cambridge and , if not alrandy 
a memlor of that University . to acquire membership . 

Applications must be received at the offices of the Royal Society not later than 
lat May , 1956." Ench applicaut must state his age und qualifications, the naturo 
of the research in which it is poupsed to engage , and partioulart of any 

Any otibor 
grants or eardowments which he holds. The application should contain the Amma 
of two persons willing to act as reformes wbo can give confidential information to 
the Committee concerning the applio int and his qualifiontions. Applicants frara di 
tant parts of the Empire should , where possible nominate reforced resident in Great 
Britain . Open tostimonials are not dosired and will not be considered . 

Printed copies of the regulations and forms of applioation own be obtained from 
the Assistant Secretary of the Royal Society , Birlington Honne, London , w ... 

Gopendra Shapen , . 
Pablloity Open, Maalpuis . 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 31, 1986 . 


81. No. 

1 . 


Impbal, the leth March , 1956 , 
PROGRAMME FOR PAYMENT OF A.R.M , COMPENSATION , 

BISH ENPUR TAHSIL . 
Namo of village. 

No. of cases 

Dated of payment . 
Ngoikhong Siphai , 

10th , 17th , 19th , 20th , 2 !at, 
Ngrikhoug Khullen , 

659 

22nd , 23rd and 24th Maroh , 
Ngakobrou Pokpi. 

1986 . 

Y. Gouramani Siaga , 
Assistant Secretary (Claimia ) to the 

Government of Manipur. 


Imphal, the 16th March , 1956 , 
No. T. 7. Press /Pub /55-56 IV . --The following undermentioned notice is republished 
or general information : 

Gopendra Sarma , 

Publicity Officer, Manipar . 
BENGAL ENGINEERING COLLEGE , 
P. O. BOTANIC GARDEN , HOWRAH , 

Imphal the 16th March , 1956 . 
The Bengal Engineering College will open next sevgion on July 2 , 1986. The 
College , which is completely residential, prepir- students for the B E. Degree Exami. 
pation of the Calcutta " Unii ersity in Civil Mechanii al, Electrionl and Metallurgioal 
Engineering , aud for the Degree in Architecture ( B. Arch .). 

Admission will be granted on the re- ults of an Admirsien Test consisting of m 
written - examination for all cnr: didates , to be held on May 3 and 4 , 19 : 6 (and also 
on May 5 for Architecture ohudidates ), a. Viva - poon and an Aptitude test , and a medical 
exauinativa , commencing on May 21 , 1956. Applications must be made in the prescribed 
forna . The prospectus and the application form may be obtin ned from the College Offios 
either personally or hy sendi: g all unstamp- d self-addregsed envelope of foolscap si 6 . 
A number of scholarships and atiponds will be awarded to meritorious students on the 
results of the Admission Test . 

Applications will be entertained from candidates who have either previously passed 
the I.Sc. Examination or have appeared in that examination this year with Physica , 
Chemistry and Mathematics. The selection of the later category of oundidates will , howe 
ver, be subject to their pissing the examination this year. I anridates riust not be over 20 
years 

of ago on January 1,1976 , but the ge limit may be relaxed up to 22 years with the 
prior approval of Government in the case of deserving applicants belonging to the edu 
Cationally backward classes and communities . 

A total of Ibirteen candidates may be admitted from the States in which thoro are 
ougineering colleges . These candidates will not be nominated as in previous year, but 
will have to apply to the Principal und apprar for examination and interviow in the 
ordinary way. Separate cautres may be opened in the following Surtes provided there is a 
sufficiont number of candidates for these contres, but suob caudidates who are suO0L88 ul 
at the written test will be required to appear for viva - vooo and Aptitude Tests and 
Modioul Examination at the B.E. Oollege. 

1. Tripurn . 

Orissa . 

3. Manipur . 
Applications must reach the College Office by April 16 . 

8d /- R.G.P.S. Pairbaim , 

Principal, 

Bengal Engineering College, Howrah . 
N.B. Application form , ara avilable at the office of the Assistant Secretary / Education 

to the Govt. of Manipur . 


2 . 


- 


. 


-- 


JIN ! 


MANIPUR GAZETTE , MARCH 21, 1956 . 


{ 


নোটিশ । 

৮৩৫৬ ইং 
শ এল : ও ১১৫৩৭৮৯ - এজ পুঞ্জণ খংছয়ী মাদুদি ষ্টেট ট্রেজিং আফিশনা ইলাে ১৯ 
বেহৌৰ খিীন যথাস ৰিখ অমসুং বাজারগ মতুংইগা ফৌ লেজগনি । তাং ১৬৩৫৬ ইংগী গাে । 
৮ গজ টে লোৱেই । সে অমলদি মণদা পােড়া হাওনা সুপা ৫ ( পা যা নি ) 

মলদি মণ পােড়া হাওনা সুপা ৫ ( সুপ মা নি ) । হে আঙ , গাড়ী 
নং এ শনিবগ কে তোবী ) খরচ ফে ) তাৰ মীনা গদখনি । বোঙালি গহন গনি 
বা মা কে না ? ( গণি ) পদবলি । 

মা ও ( জনি ) ছাপাখলি । ফৌ মী খুদিংমা “লৌউবা মীনি অ কালী 
লাল বা লৌসী থােকপা ফেীনি হাৱনা অইবা চে অমা (ডিকারেশন) গ থাকা আর পা 
না মা র তোলা শগনি। 
স্টেট ট্রেডিং আফিনা ফৌগ নমুনা (সেম্পল) আফিসা থমজরে । ফেী বিগে হায় লোভ শনা অকি 

সেশল মেৰিগৰনি । কলাগুৰ মীনা সেম্পলগ তা ফেী বিয়পি ফৌ লৌজন্নোই (নিজেই তেলি) । 
েলৌৰ মৰৌলি কৈথেল কৈৰোগী ওইনা মখালা পিজলিবা ভারিখ অমসুং পশি 
কেনি খুশিং লৈ লেইবশিংগী অয়ুক ৯ ( মাপলগ) ফৌ লোল ফৌজগুনি । নােম পিসি পিনি 

মণি মণ %ি অংগ হৈ পুবিরকপা অতুল দায়ী অফিলনা পুরোই । এহেন কে মখৈ নেই । 
কে নগদ মীশিনা ষ্টেট ট্রেভি আফিসকী কোদােংগী । মা গাড়ী কোন অহান নাইন লেংনা লৈৰিগৰি 

কে অগদ মী দি’মা মাগী মাগী তারিখ থোকপা সুমিত্তা অরুক পুং ৯ গ মমাংস টে ট্রেচ্ছি আলি 
কে হেবিরবানি । 

৯ (মাপল) গী মত দা পুৰিবক ফৌ লৌজনােই । পুৰিৰিা ফৌ পুনৰু কে 
ঙ্গি ফাওবা গাড়ীদা খৰীগৰনি । লৈপাড়া থানা 

মাৰোই 
ভুল লৌৱমদাইদা অভােঙ্গা নােটিশ অমা অমুক ভৌঝনি । 


বাবগ মমিং 


गिर 
কে 


১৪ 


সমলো , মৈখে , পায়ে 
খাও, শং , গলাই 
মাইপােঞ্চ , কোৰা , ইলি 


••• 


রাখেম , অ • থা য়াইবিপােক 
নিংড়ে , লিলো , দৌৰাল 
তাজিং, হৈয়ােক , খাে’জোম 


ককচিং , পলেল, হৈাংখােইখােথ 
হিয়া খা ”, লোই, ময়া ইশ্যাল 
শেকমাইজিন , বাবগাই, রাইখাে 


ককটিংগুনে , গ , কাকৈথেল 
চালে , মলে এইনাম 
শিপুর মিথেীখো , মোইরা 


০ 


কুশী, গে খােংশংৰী চুরাচালায় 
থামান, গালংৰা, খাল 
শশা , টিং , শেখ 


১৭ 


ট, কালাচা কি , 


Printable and by the Supetiasmadibito upangpalinglisten to you, 


