





(\Z 

mm 

LEGS A OLE LlB.IA.1Y 



^ >•»«•«/• 

4 


8 • 

1 

C*ulg. 



Pri*.... 



I 

— ■ 1 


1962 [SARA 1883 


PART II — Advertisements, Notices 

PrMMlure regarding tending Manuscripts for publication of Advertisements, Notices, etc.. In the 

“Calcutta Gazetto” (Part II). 

1. Manuscripts should bs properly edited and complete in Itself. 

2. Manuscripts should always be typewritten on one slda of the paper. The name of signatory should bo typewritten 
below the signature. 

3. Manuscripts intended for advertisement in the next issue of "Calcutta Gazette" shall be received by Publication Sales 
Office of New Secretariat Buildings, i Hastings Street, Calcutta, up to 3-30 p. m. on Friday and at Head Office at Alipore up to 
1 1 a. m. on Saturday. 

4. All costs shall be paid In advance and deposited along with the manuscripts. 

5. Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING (PUBLICATION 
IRANOH), WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS, ALIPORE. 

The press shall not be held responsible for delay in publloation of any advertisement due to the non-ooservance of the 
nstructions detailed above. r 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 

Central Instructions to oandldatee applying In response to 
advertisements issued by the Commission for recruit- 
ment to posts of "Selection". 

(1) instructions regarding submission of applloatlon. — 

Applications are to bo made on the proscribed iorm which 
|vdl bo available from the office ot the Public Service Com 
[niHsiun, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor), 
Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a large #e\f- 
nddiossed envelope) with stamps suflicient to cover the 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 

copies <ii‘ the proscribed lorm may apply on any similar 
typed (not handwritten) form showing exactly the word 
mg and spacing of the sample form published in the 
‘‘Calcutta Gazette" of tho let September 1955, provided 
the blanks are tilled up in the candidates’ own handwriting. 

(2) Particulars and certificates required. — Candidates 
khould furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
wore than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifying to their pritate 
•bar actor. 

TTie Commission accepts only the age of a candidate as 
recorded m tho Matriculation or the Secondary School 
Pinal /Leaving Certificate, in the case of a lemalo caudi- 
late whose age is not recorded in the Matriculation or 
School Final Certificate, any of the following evidence ol 
kge is accepted by the Commission: — 

1. A certificate from the Headmistress of the school 
which she last attended, showing her exact age as 
recorded in the school register. 


2. An affidavit regarding her age sworn by her father 
or mother or some other person in a position to 
know by having boon present or hoard of her birth 
at the time of occurrence. 

;*■ A certificate regarding her age, from a Member of 
the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who must 
have known the candidate* and her family, indicat- 
ing clearly tho evidence on the basis of which he/ 
she satisfied himself /herself on the point. 

(.1) Fee. Candidates must enclose with their apnlica* 
tions a fee of lie. 5 in the form of a receipted cfialan 
from a Om eminent 'Iroasurj or the Reserve Rank of India 
under the head "XXX VI— Miscellaneous — Receipts of the 
Ihihlic Service Commission, West Bengal". Money order*, 
theqiioN, etc., in lieu of treasury challans are not accented . 
Rest ul order, however, may be accepted from candidates. 

I ht v should he crossed and made payable to "Tha* Secre- 
tary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal". No appli- 
‘•Mtion will he considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application lee. 

Candidates abroad may deposit their application fees 
with tlie Nigh Commissioner ol India or the Embassy, as 
the case may be, ami obtain receipts lor the same, which 
will have to bo attached to their applications to be sub- 
mitted to the Commission. 

Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depositing fee that their applications will be forward- 
ed by their superior officers. In no case will the foe paid 
w i tli the application be refunded. 

The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced person from Pakistan. 






THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


,tPA*T U 



An indigent displaced person ehall, in the firRt instance, 
pay the application fee prescribed lor a gazetted post 
advertised by the Commission but if bo/she is selected for 
and appears at the interview, the tee paid by him/her will 
be refunded afterwards. 

Note.- “(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must lurnifdi with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is bona tide displaced person from Pakistan, e.g , 
refugee registration card, or a certificate from a gazetted 
ntlicer or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original. 

( 11 ) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming ago concession must furnish with his appli- 
cation a certificate iii original from a gazetted officer or a 
Member of Parliament or State legislature belonging to 
the Scheduled (’ante or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 

(m) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion fee must furnish beside# the evidence required under 
Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) lrom a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that ho is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed foe.” 

(•1) Addrets.—Ganilidatos should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address 

(fj) Canvassing. Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
lor appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will he disregarded. 

(ft) Applications from candidates who arc in permanent 
or temporary employment .under nmy Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (eg., Daniodar Valiev Corporation), in 
India will he rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 

Candidates serving under Government or a local or 
Statutory Roily should submit- an advance copy in the pros- 
cribed form. The application lee should in such cases* be 
attached to the advice# copy and not to the original. The 
candidature of such applicants may not however be con- 
sidered if the original applications do not reach the Com- 
mission's office within a fortnight from the closing date. 
Unless applications in original or advance copiivs with 
application Iocs are received within the closing date, late 
applications may he rejected. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West lien gal. 

All pore, the ‘J7th January Lift I . 


Advertisement No. 75 

Award of a State Scholarship for 1061-62 in 
Applied Mathematics 

APPUC \Tl()NS on* united lor a St. it Kchnhii slop io 
be u\Aid><l during 1961-62 for LL.inced Post Graduate 
Study ahm.ul m Applied Mathematics. 

2 The award of this srhohirshm which is tenable for 
Ihiec \ • ’a i 1 , will he subject to iuh^ rcgulatim' tin' award 
of State Scholarship or am otliei rules framed in this 
cnmicclnm hom time to time. 

4. 'Hie scle< *t ed eandidate wil he given a scholarship, 
tlu‘ c\act Aalue ol which will h** fixed according to the 
place ol iie-tnirtioh, \i/. L'.’>00 pci* annum to (lit 1 Scholar 
at Oxford and Guiuhritlgo and L’ISll per annum at other 
universities and :dso an additional sum o) 1‘25 per annum 
yill la* given to pn\ l»u incidental expenses tor hcoks, 
study fours, etc. Resides, the stink nt will hi prn\ ided 
with f roe second c]as*» sea passage both wavs and will also 
he given an equipment allowance of Us 500 Indore depar- 
ture from India. 

4. Government servants holding substantive appoint- 
ment Mid students already abioad are ineligible to apply. 


5. QuallAcatlonss — (i) A first class Master’s degree in 
Applied Mathematics, Or, A first class Honours degree in 
Mathematics with second class Master’s degree in Applied 
Mathematics; <ii) Age not less than 19 years or more than 
of, years t/n the 1st July 1961, the upper ago limit being 
reluct able up to 40 years for candidates with exceptionally 
high qualifications, (ui) Good character; (iv) Good physi- 
que, live from organic defects and bodily infirmity and 
ability to bear tb<' climate ol the country to which the 
’candidate ma> be sent; (v) Domicile oi West Bengal. 

ft. Candidates must submit with their applications duly 
attested copies i/f two testimonials from the authorities of 
the uniNcrsity or institution where they last studied. They 
should also give names of two relerees who must not be 
related fo them and who are in a position to testify trom 
iheir peisonal knowledge* as to the candidates’ fitness for* 
th<* pi oposed course of study. They should also produce 
evidence that since obtaining their degrees they have kept 
up then studies and that they are likely to benefit from » 
course of higher training. 

7. The selected candidate will be required to enter into 
an agreement undertaking to serve the Government of 
West. Bengal foi a period of five years, if required, or to 
take up tor a similar period other comparable employment, 
if so directed by Government on his/her return after 
(ompletion of the com si* oi instruction. 

S. Apply to Secretary w*ith a Treasury C'halan of Rr. 5 
under bead “XXXVI- Miscellaneous— Receipts </i Public 
kernel* ('oinmissioii. West Bengal”, or a Glossed Postal 
Older of Us. 5 payable to “Secretary, Public Service 
( ommission, West Bengal”. Applications are to be made, 
In triplicate, on the prescribed form obtainable lrom the 
office ol the ('ommission, Anderson House- (ground floor), 
Alipoie, GnJcuttn-27, personally or on sending a self- 
addressed envelope with postage stamp of 45 nl\ Those 
win/ intend to take application forms and/or submit t-ho 
applu alums jK'rsonally should do so between 10-Id a.m. 
and 4-00 p.rn on lull working da.ss and between 10-15 a.m. 
and 12 40 p.m. on Saturdays. 

(’jwulidatos in Government si»rviee who are eligible 
slumld make sure helore depositing fee that their applica- 
tions will he lorw aided hv then superior officers. Tn no 
ease will I lie tie deposited he ri'lunded. 

The Gi/nmu>sion may remit, fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and buna tide displaced persons from Pakistan. 

An indigent displuecd person shall, however, pay tlio 
jueserihed application fee m the first instance, hut if be/ 
she is selected foi and appears at the interviews, the fee 
paid liv him /her will he refunded afterwards. 

A displaced person seeking remission of the application 
fee must furnish with his/her application satisfactory 
evidence that he/ she is a hono fide displaced person from 
Pakistan, e.g., retugei registration card or a certificate) 
horn a gazetted (/flicer or a Member ol Parliament or State 
Legislature, m original, as well as a* certificate (in original) 

I mm a District Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member 
ot Parliament or Stan* Legislature to show that hc/Bh e is 
not in a position to pay the prescribed fee. 

9 Candidates must furnish with their application*:— 

(i) A -tat emeu t of the course of studies pursued in India 
in the last exammatn/ns; (iD Two passport size photo- 
graphs, (m) K\ ideniT ot age; (i\ ) Lvuleuce of educational 
qualifications, (v) A certificate from a registered medical 
practitioner t^tifung to their physical fitness and ability 
to hear the lunate ot the country where they propose tt) 
go 


10. Address: — Gandidutes should give their present 
address and should communicate at onco any subsequent 
change oi address. 

■i. 

Closing date— The 22nd January law. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bongal. 

Alipore, the 20th December 1961. 


Pah* II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


3 


Advertisement No. 78 


Advertisement No. 77 


APPLICATIONS arc invited from Indian eitizotis for tho 
following posts: — 

(»•) One Assistant Professor in the Department of 
Arabic, Persian and Urdu of a Government (Arts) College 
in the West Bengal Educational Service (Men's Branch). 

Post temporary. Women unsuitable. Pay: — Us. 250- -20 
- (m() — 25—750 per month plus usual allowances. Higher 
initial pay admissible on age basis up to 45 years, tho pay 
corresponding to that age being Its. 150. Higher initial 
pay up to its. 400 may also be granted irrespective oi age 
on the basis of qualifications and experience. 


APPLICATIONS are invited tnmi Indian citizens for 
the billowing posts: — 

(a) One Deputy Director, State Statistical Bureau In 
the West Bengal Statistical Service, Class I. Post tempo- 
rary. Pay:— Its. 350- 40— 680-10—1,200 plus a. special 
pn\ ot Its. UK) per mouth plus usual allowances. Persons 
having a lien or a conditional hen on u permanent post m 
l lie West Bengal Statistical Service, Class 11, who are 
eligible tor appointment to this post by promotion, are 
ineligible to apply. 


Qualifications: Essential— (i) A first class Master’s 
deg toe, Or, A second class Master’s degree with first class 
Honours in the Bachelor’s degree, Or, A Doctorate degree 
with first class llon</urs or second class Master’s degree 1 , 
o! an Indian University, in Arabic, Or, Equivalent foreign 
qualifications; (n) Two years’ teaching experience in if 
college in the subject concerned, rclaxablc in tbe case of 
candidates possessing exceptionally high academic qualifica- 
tions or having done significant research work, (lii) Ability 
to lecture in Bengali. Desirable— (i) Capacity lor carrying 
an research work in tin* case of candidates who do' not 
possess <i Doctorate degree; (ii) Master's degree in Persian 
and/or Urdu. Age: — Not more than 45 years on the* 1st 
January 1902, relaxahlo in the ease of camlidwtes possess- 
ing exceptionally high qualifications and for persons holding 
substantive appointment in the Education Department, 
West Bengal. 

Closing date— The 31st January 1962. 

# <h) One Assistant Director of Technical Training In the 

Wost Bengal General Service. Post permanent. Women 
unsuitable. Pay: — Its. 500 — 25 - 750 per mouth plus usual 
allowances. 

Qualifications: Essential (i) A degree in Engineering 
ot an Indian or a foreign University or a Master’s degree 
in Technology oi an Indian University oi equivalent foreign 
qualifications; (ii) Eive years’ teaching or administrative 
experience m a technical institution or in an industrial 
organisation ot repute. Desirable — (i) Experience in res- 
ponsible position in an educational or industrial organisa- 
tion; (ii) Hood power of expression in Bengali. Age: — 
Onlumrilv 'between AO and 40 years on tho 1st January 
1002, re taxable tor candidates possessing exceptionally 
high qualifications and tor persons bolding substantive 
appointment in the Education Department, West Bengal. 

Closing date— The 25th January 1962. 


Age concession 

The upper age* limit for all the posts is relaxahlo bv fvro 
years tor Scheduled Castes/ Tribes and up to 15 years for 
displaced persons from Pakistan. 

A candidate win# below* tho 15th August 1917 was 
(let {fined, imprisoned, interned, or oxterned on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of nil offence indicating 
moial turpitude, shall bo entitled to a concession in respect 
of the upper age limit. The concessimi granted will be 
equal to the exact period of detention, imprisonment, 
internment or externment suffered up to a maximum ot 
four years. 


Apply to Secretary with a Treasury Chalan of Rs. 5 
iiTidfT hood “XXX VT Miseellaneou.x— Receipts of Public 
Soi vice Commission , West Bengal”, or a Crossed Postal 
f Jrder ot Its. o payable to “Secretary, Public Service Com- 
mission, \\est Bengal”. Overseus candidates mav deposit 
their application lees with the High Commission' of India 
or the Indian Embassy, as the case mw be. Particulars 
and prescribed application forms are obtainable from the 
ofji(*e oi tin* Comnnssion, Anderson House (ground floor) 
Alipore, ( a I cut ta -2/ personally or on sending a self- 
addressed envelope (size 10* x0") with postage stamp of 
.V) nP and the name of the post superscribed on the 
envelope those who intend to take application forms 
and/or snhmjt the applications pers,mallv, should do so 
between lO-lo n.m. and 3-00 p.m. on full working days and 
between 10-lo a.m. and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. ' 


A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bongul. 

Alipore, tbe 23rd December 1M1, 


Qualifications:— ( 1 ) A Hi si class M.A. or M.Sc. degree 
or a Doctorate degree of an Indian University or an 
equivalent degree ot a torcign University in Statistics, 
Mathematics, Physics, Economics or an allied subject; 
( 11 ) Practical knowledge and experience ol methods of 
collection ot statistics in at least one ol the 
lolloumg branches. (a) Industry and Eactones. 
<b) Labour, (c) Agriculture, (d) Public Health ana 
(e) Sample Surveys, Or, Capacity tor statistical work 
demonstrated by independent studies, published or unpub- 
lished, in K(/me field ot Applied Statistics; (m) Adminis- 
trative experience in a responsible position ot a reputed 
statistical office. Age:- Between 25 and 40 years on the 
1st Eebruary 1902. 

Closing date— The 5th February 1962. 

(b) One Special Officer, integrated 8cheme for Training* 
cum-Production Centre for Wood Industries, under tho 
Directorate of Industries, West Bengal. Post temporary. 
Women unsuitable. Pay: Hs. 550 AO OHO -40 -1,200 
<E.B. jiltor the lOtli and 1 St h stage's) per month pluo 
usufl allowances Higher initial pa.\ up to Us. 050 may 
be .allowed to a candidate spccudly well-qualified or oni ago 
basis up to 55 .tears. 

Qualifications: Essential- -(i) A degreo in Mechanical 
Engineering plus two > ears’ experience in an Engineering 
Workshop, (ii) Eive > ears' expenence in Engineering 
Imlustiies, including one years’ experience in a responsible 
position in jv saw mill or wood working factory; 
(in) Organising ability. Desirable — (i) Experience in wax*! 
processing, (ii) Knowledge of up-to-date technological 
practices in wood industries, (in) Teaching oxpericnee in 
technical subjects; (iv) Eumiluiritv with commercial 
accounts. Age:— Not more than 40 years on the 1st 
Eebruary 1902, relaxahlo m tin* case oj candidates specially 
well-qualified and experienced. 

Closing date— The 5th February 1962. 

(c) Two posts In the West Bengal Statistical 8ervlo# f 
Class III. Posts temporary. Women unsuitable. Person* 
having a lien or a conditional lien on a> permanent jxist 
m the State Statistical Bureau, West. Bengal, who are 
eligible tor appointment to these posts by promotion ar^ < 
ineligible to apply. Pay: —Us. 200—10 —120-15 — 150 per 
month plus usual allowances. 

Qualifications: Essential A first or second class Master** 
digits* or llonouis degree m Statistics, Mai hematic*. 
Physics oi Economics « it an Indian University oi equivalent 
foieign qualification. Desirable Experience ot Statistical 
work in an office or institute of repute. Agj>:- Between 
22 and 40 >ears on tho 1st January 1902 

Closing date— The 29th January 1962. 


Age concession 

The upper age limit for all the posts is relaxahlo by five 
years for Scheduled ( ’antes/ Tribes and up to 45 years Tor 
•displaced persons from Pakistan. 

A candidate who before the 15th August 1917, wne 
•detained, imprisoned, interned, or oxterned on account ot 
his/her activities in connection with the country’s struggle, 
lor independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall lx*, entitled to a concession in respect 
oi tho upper age limit. The concession granted will be 
equal to the exaet period of detention, imprisonment, 
internment or externment suffered up to a maximum of 
jour years. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


[Part II 


4 ‘ 


Apply to Secretary with a Treasury Chalan of Rs. 5 
under head “XXXVI — Miscellaneous — Receipts of Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal”, or a Crossed Pt/stal 
Order oi Rs, 5 payable to “Secretary, Public Service Com- 
nns-uon, West Bengal”. Overseas candidates may deposit 
tbeii application Urn with the High Commission oi India 
or the Indian Embassy, as the case may be. Particulars 
and prescribed application forms are obtainable from the 
office <v! Urn Commission, Anderson House (ground floor), 
Alipore, Culciitln-27, personally or on sending a self- 
nddicsM»il envelope (si zc 10* x6") with postage .'-tamp oi 
(Vi nl\ and the nwne oi the post superscribed on the 
envelop!' U;os< who intend to take npjilication forms 
und/oi submit the applications personally, should do so 
between iU-lo a m. and .MM) p.m. cm lull working days and 
between 10 15 a m and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 


A. (\ ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service* Commission, WVd Bengal 

Alipore, tin' ‘.’Till December 1901. 


Advertisement No. 78 

APPLICATIONS are invited from Indian citizens ior a 
post oi Dairy Engineor in the West Bengal General Servloe. 

Post peinmienl lint, tin 4 appointment will be made on 
tempo ran basis. This cancels Commission's adver- 
tisement No. 70(a) of 1901. Those who previously 
applied I or tins post m response to Commission's advertise- 
ments No, 50(b) oi 1901 and No. 70(a) ol 1901 need not 
apply again, their applications will be considered this 
time abo Pay: Its 350 110 — OMO 40—1,200 pci month 
plus usual allowances. Koi a candidate not already serving 
in tin* mgamsation oi the Director oi Daily Development 
mid Animal Husbandry and ex-t/ffieio Milk Comtnissionei , 
West Bengal, il selected, a higher initial pay will bo 
allowed on the basis ol ago up to 00 yours, the pay cm res- 
ponding to that age being Rs. 050. 


Qualifications: Essential— (i) A first class degree in 
Mechanical / Elect ncal/ Agricultural Engineering trom an 
Indian Cnneisity or equivalent qua lificat ions; (n) A post- 
graduate degiee in Diwry Kngineenng; Or, At least two 
} ears’ piaclical framing in ros|>ect of one or more oi the 
following - (a) Ki act ion and maintenance oi dairy machi- 
nery m a huge milk plant; (b) Large boilers; (e) Refri- 
geration; (d) Work in a production taetoiy or workshop. 
Desirable (0 Kxpononco oi management of labour; 
( ii) Sound knowledge ol Bengali— spoken and written. 
Age: — Ik'l ween 2d and 27 years on the 1st January 19(12, 
the upper ago limit being reluxahlo m deserving eases. 

The upper age limit is also relavable by five 
•years lot N lieduled Cnstes/Tnbes and up to 15 years lor 
•displaced pel sons from Pakistan. 

A eandid.ite who belore the 15th August 1917, was 
detained, imprisoned, interned, or externed on account ot 
his act ) i it M*s m (onuection with the country's struggle for 
independence . not being convicted ot an offence indicating 
moral tu#pii.idc. shall tie entitled to a roiices.uon in respect 
ot tin 1 upper ago limit. The concession granted will lie 
equal to the exact period ol detention, lmpnsonment, 
intemnu'iil or e\ternment suffered up to a maximum ol 
four >ea rs. 

Apply to Secret iry with a Treasury Chalan ct Rs. 5 
umlei hood • 'XXXVI -Miscellaneous — Receipts of Public 
Service Commission. West Bengal”, or a Crossed Postal 
Order ol IN. 5 pnuihle to “Secretary, Public Service Com- 
mission, Wot Bengal”. Overseas candidates mir deposit 
theiii upplicat uni lees with the High Commission* ol India 
>oi tin* Indian Emhass.v, as the ease may he. Particulars 
and prescribed apple it inn forms are obtainable trom the 
office </t the Commi'Kion, Anderson House (ground lloor) 
Alipore, ( alcutta-27, personally or on wilding a self- 
addressed envelope (size 10" xd") with postage stamp of 
35 nP. and the name of the poet •uperncribod on the 


" envelope. Those who intond to take application forma 
and/or submit the applications personally, should do so 
between 10-15 a. in. ami .1-00 p.m. on lull working days and 
between 1(M5 a. in and 12-30 p.m. oil Saturdays. 

Closing date— The 15th January 1962. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 
Alipmc, tin 4 29th December 1961. 


West Bengal Civil Service (Executive) and allied Services 
Examination, January 1962 

I M PORTA NT ANNOUNCEMENT 

IT is notified tor general information that the following 
vacancies in dilleient services and posts will be filled on 
the lesnlts ot this examination. The number of vacancies 
and ri'.sri v ation indicated are liable to alteration: — 

Service or post No. of vacancies 


CROUP A 

West Bengal Civil Service IK) 

( Executive^. 

GROUP B 

Wosl Bengal Police Service 5 


GROUP C 


West Bengal Junior Civil 
Sen ice. 

West Bengal Junior Excise 
Sen ice. 

Labour Officer 

Assistant Employment 
Officer. 

Jailor 

Secretariat Upper Division 


40 (5 reserved for Scheduled 
Caste and 2 tor Scheduled 
Tube candidates). 

4 (1 reserved for Scheduled 
Caste candidates). 

1 (temporary). 

2 (temporary). 


11 (5 permanent and f> 
turn j unary). 


Clerical Service. 

GROUP D 

Deputy Jailor ... 6 


J. C. GHOSH, Dy. Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Anderson House, Alipore, 
Cn leu It :i-27. 

The 2Sfli December 1961. 


CORRIGENDUM 

IN paitinl modification of Cam mission’s advertisement 
No 9* ol 1961 inviting applications for Stipendiary Student- 
ships for 1961-64 for the West Bongal Senior Forest 
Service, it is notified for general information that the 
number of studentships lias since increased to three. It 
is also notified that the age-limits tar the aforesaid 
Studentships should be between 19 and 23 years on the 
1st April 1981 and not on the 1st September 1961 as 
advertised earlier. The application fees of the candidates 
who have already applied and will become underage accord- 
ing to the terms oi this notification, will be refunded. 

Particulars and prescribed application forms are obtain- 
able lrom the office ot the Commission, Anderson House 
(ground lloor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on 
sending a self-addressed stamped envelope (size 10* x6*) 
with postage stamp of 35 nP. and the name of the 
Studontshij s superscribed on the envelope. The last date 
ot receipt ot applications is hereby extended to the 15th 
January 1962. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Alipore, the 26th December 1961. 


jpABT II] 


TIIF. CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


.5 


NOTICE 

APPLICATIONS arc invited for the pewt- of Government 
Pleader, Midnapore. Applicants must have practiced for 
at least five years as Pleader, Vakil, Advocate or Barris- 
ter, and their applications must reach this office hy 7th 
January 1962. Applicants practising in districts of West 
Bengal other than Midnapore must submit their applica- 
tions through the District Magistrates of their district, 
who would forward the applications with their opinion on 
the fitness ot the candidates for the post after consulta- 
tion with the District Judges of the Districts. Applicants 
practising on the Original Side of the Calcutta High Court, 
shall submit their applications through the Advocate 
General, West Bengal, and applicants practising on the 
Appellate Side of the* High Court, or the Small Cause 
Court or the Police Court, Calcutta, should submit their 
applications through the Deputy Superintendent and 
Remembrancer of Legal Affairs, West Bengal, the Chief 
Judge, Small Cause Court, and the Chiot Presidency Magis- 
trate, Calcutta, respectively, who would forward such 
applications to the District Magistrate of Midnapore with 
their respective recommendations. 

Dated, Midnapore, the 20th December 1901. 


B. B. MANDAL, 

District Magistrate, Midnapore. 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, 
BURDWAN 

Insolvency Case No. 5 of 1061 

Md. vSafi Alam 
versus 

liafizar Rahamun 

IT is notified tor general information that the Creditor 
Petr. Md. Safi Alam of Raniguni Bazar, Burdwan, has 
brought the above case against, the Debtor Opposite Party 
Hafizwr Ha»harnan, s/o late Md. Kshahuq of Tentultolla 
Muliulla, Burdwan Town, and that the case is sot down for 
hearing on ihc 8th day of January 1902 or as soon as there- 
after as the business of the Court will permit. Anybody 
interested m the matter may appear before this Court 
through duly authorised agent on the date fixed, otherwise, 
the case will be decided ex parto. 


The 2nd January 1962. 


I. B. BARMAN, District Judge. 

( 12 — 1 ) 


IN THE COURT OF THE MUNSIF OF CHAIBA8SA, 
DISTRICT SINGHBHUM (BIHAR) 

Title suit No. 12 of 1961 

Moti Lai Sao, son of late Lai Chand Sao, of Chaibassa, 
district Singhbbum — Plaintiff. 

versus 

Kanhai.valal Mohta and others — Defendants. 

To it. Gaueshlal AJuhta, son of late Giridharilal Malita. 
5. Gita Devi, wife of Shyiwnsundar Dagar, resident at 
Mali alia Sadar Bazar, Purulia. No. it is the resident 
of Baithakkhana Road, Calcutta-12. 

TAKK notice whereas the ubuvcn&ined plaintiff has filed 
a Title Suit for ejectment from the pucea houso situated 
in Chailnssa under Chaibassa Municipal Ward No. 7, holding 
No. 7 I'M, at Baranimdih under Khu*sniahal holding No. 
68.5, plot No. 2641 and also for realisation of Rs. 36 as 
arrear rent. 

You are hereby directed to appear on 19th January 1962 
failing which the suit will proceed ex parte against both 
of you in your absence 

Given under my hand and the seal of this court the 
18th day of December 1961. 

K. BASU, Munsif. 

( 1 - 1 ) 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUBORDINATE JUDGE, 
2ND COURT, DHANBAD 

Title (Mort.) suit No. 1 of 1961 

Minor Krislinupal Singh - Plaintiff 
versus 

Must. Nnnki Dcbi and (ft hers Defendants 

To (1) Sin. Fulkunum Dcln and (2) Kim Anadi Nath ILm, 
both ol Helm i, pohce-sUitiou Kulti, district Burdwan. 

WIIFBKAS the s!ui\enuniod plaintiff has sued wm and 
otheis in the ahovcuottd Court of recovery of royalty dues 
and other leliets and the suit is fixed tor hearing on the 
19th Janu.H v 1962 \*> u are required to appear m the Couit 
on the said dale and file your written statement m the 
ease. 


Failing that the suit will bo decided ex parti' against 
you. 

Given under my hand and seal ot this Court this the 
22nd day oi December 1961. 

A. K. ISM A 1 LI, Subordinate Judge. 

(Si-1) 


NOTICE 

NOTICF is heroin given that the partnership linn of 
1). S. Industrial Corporation of No. 67/B, Netop Subhas 
Road. Inning its factory at No. 4/6, Kali Prnsanna Smlia 
Boad, Calcutta, has boon dissolved with effect from the 
1st November 1961 and that Shri Dcvnndru* Kcdui has taken 
o\er all assets ami properties thereof and that Shri Lachmi- 
iiarain Tikmauy is now no hmger a partner tlicrool and 
"ill not be liable tor any act done hy the said 
Shri Do vend ru Kudu alter the said date and that 
Shu Dcvondra Kedia is since 1st November 1961 carrying 
on the siwd Imsini'ss as the sole proprietor thcrooi. 

Dated the 18th December 1961. 

KIIAITAN & co., 
Attorneyfe-at-Law. 

IB Old Post Office Stieet, Calcutta-1. 

( 6 - 1 ) 


PK A SANTA Kl MAR BANDYOPADHYA Y, LL.B., 
intends to he enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court. 


(879 — 4) 


SIJIBADAS G1IOSAL, M.A., LL.B., intends to he 
enrolled as an Advocate oi the Calcutta High Court. 


(880 -A) 


SHY AM A PRASAD DUDHWEWALA, LL.B., intends 
to be enrolled as an Advocate ol tho Calcutta High Court. 

(900 — 4) 


6 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


[Part n 


SUNIL RAN JAN MITRA, LL.1L, intends to be enrolled 
us an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 901 - 4 ) 


SUM SANK A It MITKHOPADHYAY, LL.B.. intends 
to be enrolled as un Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 

( 902 — 4 ) 


SAClIiKANTA HAJARI, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 

( 903 - 4 ) 


SATYAJIT HAN KIM KK, M.A., LL.B., intends to bo 
enrolled as an Advocate of tho (Calcutta High Court. 

( 907 — 1 ) 


SHIM It A BIN MAJUMDAR, LL.B., intends to be on 
rolled as an Advocate oi Calcutta High Court. 

( 908 - 4 ) 


SIMM COPAL CHANDRA LAW, LL.B., intends t ( > bo 
enrolled as an Advocate </f Calcutta High Court. 

( 909 — 4 ) 


Slim AJIT KUMAR BOSK. LL B , intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate in the High Court at Calcutta. 

(918- I) 


Slim RAMBIL4S AGARWALA, B.Sc., LL B., intciuK 
to be ( moiled as an Ad\oeate ol the Calcutta High Com I 

(919-1) 


MAN A HI K PRASAD S1IARMA, LL B., intends to 
ho enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta. High Court. 

( 920 — 1 ) 


JANARDHAN, LL.1L, mt* tuls to be enrolled as an 
Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

( 927 — 1 ) 


^ PBAKASll BANDYOPADHYAY. LL.B, intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 928 — 4 ) 


MOM BIirSAN S1RKAR, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 929 — 4 ) 


Slim NILRATAN KHAITAN, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as" an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 930 — 4 ) 


BUOY KUMAR DUTTA. LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 931 — 1 ) 


SUB! BHAGABATI PRASAD BANDYOPADHYAY, 
LL.B , inlands to lx* cm oiled as an Advocate ol the Cal- 
culi. t High Court. 

( 932 - 4 ) 


KRISHNA CHANDRA GHOSH, LL.B , intends to he 
< moiled as an Advocate o| the Calcutta High Court. 

( 933 - 4 ) 


CillTTARAN IAN 0 \NGULL LL B„ intends to be 
emolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(931-4) 


SADHANA NA.NDA MISRA intends to he enrolled as 
n Advocah ol llie Calcutta High Court. 

(93b i) 


SHDIIIR KUMAR SKN GUPTA, B.L., intends to bo 
enrolled a*s an Advocate of the Calcutta High (Jourt. 

( 9 - 4 ) 


1 1)1 r KUMAR MUKHOPAD11YAY, LL.B., intends to 
he emolled us an Advocate ot tho Calcutta High Court. 

( 10 - 4 ) 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


7 


Part II] 


r- 

Name of Company: Indo Tibet Limited (In 
Liquidation). 

Name of Liquidators: Shri K. N. Gutgutia and Shri A. 
C. Bhuteria 

Address oi Liquidators: Central Bank Building, 33 
Netaji Sublias Road, 2nd Floor, Calcutta-1. 

Date of commencement of winding up: 1st June 1961. 

NOTICE TO CREDITOR TO PROVE HIS DEBT 

WE, K. N. Gutgutia and A. 0. Bhuteria, Liquidators 
of tbe said Company, do hereby require you to submit 
proof of your debt or claim against the Company by deli- 
vering to us at our office at the above address cm or before 
the 2otli January 1962 or by sending to me at the above 
address by post so as to reach me not later than the said 
date, your affidavit of proof in tho prescribed form with 
your name*, address and particulars of claim and any title 
[to priority you may claim under section 5110. If you fail to 
| submit your affidavit of proof within the time limited as 
'aforesaid you will bo excluded from the benefit of any 
distribution of dividend before your debt is admitted, or as 
tho ease may be, from objecting to such distribution* 

If so required by notice in writing fre/m me, you should 
attend upon* tho investigation of your debt or claim at such 
time and place as shall be specified in tho notice and 
produce such evidence of your debt or claim as may bo 
required. 

Thc^ 1st day of February 1962 at the said 33 Netaji 
Sublias Road, Calcutta, is appointed for hearing and adju- 
dicating upon the debts and claims. 

Dated tho 21st clay ot December 1961. 

K. N. GUTGUTIA, 

A. C. BHUTERIA, 
Liquidator#. 

( 6 — 1 ) 


Name* ot Company Bharat Fibres Ltd. (In Liquida- 
tion) . 

Name of Liquidator*. Shri K. N. Gutgutia and Shri A. 
C. Bhuteria. 

A dd res* ol Liquidators: Contra! Bank Building, 33 
Netaji Sublias Road, 2nd Floor, Calcutta-]. 

Date of commencement of winding up: 23 th September 

1 % 1 . 

NOTICE TO CREDITOR TO PROVE HIS DEBT 

WE, K. N. Gutgutia and A. (’. Bhuteria, Liquidators 
>f tho mi id Company do hereby tequiro you to submit, 
[uoerf of youi debt or claim against the Company by 
delivering to us at our office at the above* acldicss on or 
before the 23t.h January 1902 or by sending to me at the 
nbovo address bv post so as to reach me not later than 
the said date*, your affidavit of proof in the' prescribed ic/rm 
lyith vour name, acldros.; and particulars of claim and any 
title to priority you may claim under section 330. Tf you 
fail to submit \our affidavit ol proof within the time limited 
M aforesaid you will bo excluded from the benefit uf any 
Distribution of dividend before your debt is admitted, or 

the case may be, from objecting to such distribution. 

; If so required by notice in writing from me. you should 
Ucnd upon the investigation of your debt *r claim at such 
firm* and place ns shall be specified in the notice and 
produce such evidence of your debt or claim as may bo 
required. 

ri '{be 1st day of February 19G2 at the said .‘13 Netaji 
bubhas Road, Calcutta, is appointed for hearing and 
adjudicating upon the debts and claims. 

Dated tho 21st day of December 1901. 

K. N. GUTGUTIA, 

A C. BHUTERIA, 
Liquidators. 

(7-1) 


LOST, STOLEN OR DESTROYED 

THE Government Promissory Note No. 26-1012 of the 
3$ per cent loan of 1900-01 for Rs. 100 originally standing 
m the name of Kumar A run Chandra Singba and Kumar 
Mnninelrn Chandra Singba, pxecntcYrs of Chandrnmohim 
Dassi. and lost endorsed to Lnhnnnya Prova Dasi, tbe 
proprietor, by whom it was never endorsed to any other 
person, having been destroyed, notice' is hereby given that 
payment ot tbe above note and the interest tliere'upon 
have been stopped at the Public Debt Office, Reserve Bank 
of India, Calcutta, and that application is about to bo 
made for the irsue of duplicate m favour of the proprietor. 
Tin* public arc cautioned against purchasing or otheruiso 
dealing with ttic nbovenientioiied security. 

LAB ANN YA PROVA DASl, 
w/o Kalipada Sinlia, 

P.O. Kamli, Jibelbarpara, 
distuct Mursliiduhad (West Bengal). 

( 3 - 3 ) 


CHANGE OF NAME 

I, Fani Blue lum D<*y, of 31 /A, Pandit in Rond, 
( Silent t a 29 bcicby declare* that I write mv name* both ns 
“Fam Hbusban Dey” and also as “Phani Rlnisjiau Do” 
but lie'iiceloi tb I like to write' mv name* as “Phani Bliushau 
Do”. 

(4-1) 


THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA 

Summary of the Minutes of the Proceedings of tho 
Commissioners’ 11th Meeting, held on the 18th Septem- 
ber 1961. 

AT tin* lltli Mending of tbe Commissioners held on the 
IHtli Scd ember 1961 the following business was 
transacted — 

1. Hydraulic Study of the river Hooghly and its Estuary 
and the Haldia Port site— Third Five-Year Plan 

Tin* ( ’onimissioiiers sanctioned, subject to the sanction 
ol Government, ns a charge' to Capital, an estimate of 
Rs. 93 bibbs tor I In* setting up of a llydfuulic Study 
Department with necessary craft and appliances for 
earning out a comprehensive study of the hydraulic mcchn- 
tiimm of the nvci Hooghly on tbe lines suggested by tho 
('hairmun 

2. Replacement of No. 2 Swing Bridge, Klddorpore Docks 
--Third Five-Year Plan 

The ( 'ommissioTicrs sanctieme'd. suhj<*ct to the sanction 
of Governii'eni a*- a charge to Capital, an estimate ol 
Rs 10 lakhs lor the construction ot a now bridge' in 
replacement of No. 2 Swing Bridge at tbe* Kidderporo 
Docks 

3. 'On account’ payment to ‘B’ Category Workers 

Tin* Commi'iMoricrH approved the Chairman's proposal to 
make an ‘on ace omit’ payment to ML Category Workers of 
tin* Tin flic Department against arrears of pav and allow- 
ances on t In * revision of pav scales in tho light, of tho 
Second Pav Cominissiem’s recommendations. 

4. Block proposals 

The Commissioners also sanctioned routine' establishment 
proposals and routine proposals relating to execution of 
works, grant ol leases, purchase ot material, remission of 
charges, etc * 

Tho 23rd December 1961. 

P. C. MITTER, Secretary. 

(8 — I) 



Registered So. C207 


No. 1 of 1962 


SI}? 





PAUSA 14 1 

THURSDAY, JANUARY 4, 

1962 JS AKA 1883 


CONTENTS: 




Fage, 


Calcutta Improvement Trust— Notice 

Howrah Improvement Trust — Notice 

1051 

10ft! 


SUPPLEM ENT-Official Papers 


CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 


The Board of Trustees for the Improvement of 
Calcutta 

NOTICE UNDER SECTION 43 OP THE 
CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT ACT, 1911 
(BENGAL ACT V OF 1911) 

Scheme No. LXXX1 (Muraripukur Road) 

Dated Calcutta, the 16th December 1961. 

1. It is hereby notified under section 43 of the 
Calcutta Improvement Act, that an improvement 
scheme, namely, Scheme No. LXXX1 (Muraripukur 
Road) for the purpose of rehousing bustee dwellers, 
providing building sites, remedying defective ventila- 
tion, creating new or improving existing means ol 
communication and facilities for traffic and afford- 
ing better facilities for conservancy, has been framed 
by the Board of Trustees for the Improvement of 
Calcutta in an area within Constituency No. 13 ol 
the Corporation of Calcutta. 


2. I he area comprised within and affected by the 
Scheme shown within red verge on the plan has the 
jfollowing boundaries:— 

On the North: Starting from a point on the 
eastern boundary of 20 Canal East Road about 
6 ft. 0 inch, on the south from its north- 
eastern corner eastward along the southern 
boundary of No/ 48; -Canal* East Road ’ tert t s^ 


south-eastern corner, then eastward north- 
ward and again eastward along the southern, 
eastern and southern boundary of No. 15/1C, 
Muraripukur Road to a point on the western 
cage ol Muraripukur Road, then eastward in 
a straight line lor a distance of 118 ft. across 
Muraripukur Road and Premises No. 35G, 
Muraripukur Road to a point about 137 ft. 
irom the south-western corner of 35G Murari- 
pukur Road. 

On the East: From this point southward in a 
Mtaight line for a distance ol 532 ft. across 
premises No. }5(J, Muraripukur Road, C. C. 
Road and drain, premises Nos. 41B, 41C and 
411). Muraripukur Road to a point about 
103 it. from the south-eastern corner of No. 13, 
Muraripukur Road. 

On the South: From this point westward in a 
straight line acro»s 411) Muraripukur Road, 
Muraripukur Road and then along the south- 
ern boundary ol No. 1 >, Muraripukur Road to 
its south-western corner; then northward 
along the eastern boundary ol No. 12, Murari- 
pukur Road to its norlh -eastern corner. From 
this point westward along the northern boun- 
daries ol premises Nos. 12 and 1, Muraripukur 
Road to the north-western corner of the 
latter. From this point, northward, westward, 
southward and then westward along the east- 
ern. noithern, western and then northern 
boundaries respectively of premises No. 21, 
Canal East Road to the south-eastern corner 
of premises No. 20, C-an.il East Road. • 

On the West: From this point northward along 
the eastern houndan. of premises No 20, Canal 
•~£asrR.Ta’d to the starting point. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


[Part U 




BIHAR 

In pursuance of the provisions of sub-rule 9 of 
rule 9 of the Central Sales Tax (Bihar) Rules, 1957, 
it is notified for general information that the 
following declaration forms C have been reported to 
have been lost or stolen from the custody to whom 
the form of declarations was issued and are declared 
invalid for the purpose of sub-section (4) of section 8 
of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956:-- 

Serial No. of the Name, address and registration Remarks, 
forms reported certificate No. of the dealer, 
to bo lost. 

1 00-21151 Messrs. Oopi Ram .Jhingan 

Ram Puranigodown, Cava, 

OY-M(Ontral). 

H. P. SHAW, 

Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Bihar. 


In pursuance of the provision of sub-rule 9 o 
rule 9 of the Central Sales Tax (Bihar) Rules, 1957, ii 
is notified for general information that the followinj 
declaration forms have been reported to have beei 
lost or stolen or destroyed from the custody of thf 
dealers to whom these forms were issued and an 
declared invalid for the purpose of sub-section (4 
of section 8 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956:-— 

Serial number Name, address and registration Romarks. 
of the forms certificate number of the dealer, 
reported to be 
destroyed. 

C 016070 and Shri N. K. Kar, Prop., Messrs. 

C 016080. Central Medical Stores, 

Sasaram, R. C. No. Bihar 
SH946 (C). 

K. A. RAMASUBRAHMANYAM, 
Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Bihar, 


In pursuance of the provisions of sub-rule 9 of 
rule 9 of the Central Sales Tax (Bihar) Rules, 1957, it 
is notified for general information that the following 
declaration forms C have been reported to have 
been lost or stolen or destroyed from the custody 
of the dealer to whom these forms were issued and 
are declared invalid for the purpose of sub- 
section (4) of section 8 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 
1956: - - 


Serial number Name, addres* and registration Remark*, 
of the lost do- cortilicato number of the dealer, 
duration forms. 

1 CM, 58,053 Messrs. Baidyanath Rico and Lost and un - 
to Oil Mills, Jhanjhurpur, Dar- tracoablo. 

C-4, 58,075. bhanga, Bihar, DR-288 

(Central). 


H. P. SHAW, 

Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Bihar. 


In pursuance ol the provisions of sub-rule 9 of 
rule 9 of the Central Sales Tax (Bihar) Rules, 1957, 
'it is notified tor general information that the 
following declaration forms have been reported to 
have been lost or stolen from the custody of the 
dealers to whom these forms were issued and are 
declared invalid for the purpose of sub-section (4) 
of section 8 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956: — 

Serial number Name, add mas and registration Remark*, 

of tlie fofms certificate number of the denier, 
reported to be 
lost. 


1 1395 1C to 1 

13975C. | 

| Messrs. Ram Dham Duss Lost during 

2 Bit 1665 1C - Kajendra Pd of Kudra, travelling in 

to 16675C 1 . Sasaram, district Shaba- train. 

bad. 

Registration n rtificato num- 
ber SH- 1 116 C’ 

K. A. RAMASUBRAHMANYAM, 
Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Bihar. 


In pursuance of the provisions of sub-rule 9 ol 
rule 9 of the Central Sales Tax (Bihar) Rules, 1957, 
it is notified for general information that the 
following declaration form C has been reported to 
have been lost from the custody of the dealer to 
whom the form was issued and is declared invalid 
for the purpose of sub-section (4) of section 8 of the 
Central Sales Tax Act, 1956: — 


Serial number Name, address and R. C. No. Remarks, 
of the lost do- of the dealer, 

claration form. 

1 C 328881 . . Messrs. Bhagwan Dass Basu- 
doo, Bhagalpur, BB - 1 1 1 - 
Central. 

K. A RAMASUBRAHMANYAM, 
Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Bihar. 


ASSAM 

No. CST-3/61/ 14052. 13th October 1961.— 
In pursuance of the provisions of sub-rules (9) and 
(10) of rule 8 of the Central Sales Tax (Accounts 
and Procedure) Rules, 1957, read with sub-scction 
(3) of section 13 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, 
it is notified for general information that the 
following declaration forms which are reported to 
have been lost from the custody of the dealer are 
declared to be invalid for the purpose of sub- 
section (4) of section 8 of the Central Sales Tax 
Act, 1956, and Central Sales Tax (Accounts and 
procedure) Rules, 1957: — 


Sorial num- Nairn* and address of the The date Romarks. 
bor of do- registered dealer to whom from which 
claration the forms were issued, the form 
form do- declared 

dared invalid, 

invalid. 


B 162293 to Messrs. Brothers & Co., 22-8-61 Lost from 
—162300. Daily Bazar, Tinsukia. the custody 

of the dea- 
ler. 


R. Z. AHMED, 

Commissioner of Taxes, Assam. 


Part IA] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


3 


No. CST-3 /61 / 14827. — 30th October 1961. — In 
pursuance of the provisions of sub-rules (9) and (10) 
of rule 8 of the Central Sales Tax (Accounts and Pro- 
cedure) Rules, 1957, read with sub-section (3) of 
section 13 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, it is 
notified for general information that the following 
declaration forms are reported to have been stolen 
from the custody of the dealer and are declared to 
be invalid for the purpose of sub-section (4) of 
section 8 of Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 and Central 
Sales Tax (Accounts and Procedure) Rules, 1957: — 


Serial num- Name and address of the The date Remarks, 
her of de- registered dealer to whom from which 


duration 

the forms were issued. 

the form 

form de- 


declared 

clared 

invalid. 


invalid. 

B (>35076 

Shri Lai Ch. Sctliia, prop- 
• rietor of Messrs. Sothia 

22-7-61 Stolon from 

to 

tho custody 

R 035125. 

Bros. G. S. Road, Shil- 

of tho dea- 


long. 

ler. 


R. Z. AHMED, 

Commissioner of Taxes, Assam. 


No. CST-3/61 4767. 12th January 1961. -- In 
pursuance of the provisions of sub-rules (7) and (10) 
of rule 8 of the Central Sales Tax (Account and Pro- 
cedure) Rules, 19S7, read with sub-section (3) of 
section 13 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, it is 
notified for general information that the following 
declaration forms which is reported to have been 
surrendered by the dealer are declared to be invalid 
for the purpose of sub-section (4) of section 8 of the 
Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, and the Central Sales 
Tax (Accounts and Procedure), Rules 1957: — 


iScnul num- Name and address of the The date Remarks, 
[her of form of registered dealer to whom from which 
declaration the forms were issued. the forms 
declared declared as 

invalid. invalid. 


BO 24582 Messrs. Motilal Shew Na- 
i to rayan Bihpuria, dis- 

^50 24(100. trict Luklnmpur. 


1-4-01 Surrendered 
to closure 
of shop. 


ILLEGIBLE, 

Commissioner of Taxes, Assam. 


No. CST-5/59/1728. — 5th May 1961. — In 
>ursuance of the provisions of sub-rules (9) and (10) 
if rule 8 of the Central Sales Tax (Accounts and 
‘rocedure) Rules, 1957, read with sub-section (3) of 
ection 13 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, it is 
lotified for general information that the following 
[edaration forms which are reported to have been 
pst in transit are declared to be invalid for the 
kirpose of sub-section (4) of section 8 of the Central 


Sales Tax Act, 1956, and the Central Sales Tax 
(Accounts and Procedure) Rules, 1957: — 


Serial num- Name and address of the The date Remarks, 
her of form registered dealer to whom from whioh 
of declaration the form were issued. the forms 
declared are 

invalid. declared 

os invalid. 


B 292656 

Messrs. 

Sarda Stores, 

22-6-00 

Lost 


Hailakandi, district. 


transit. 


Cacbar. 




B 1 

—105161 

Messrs. 

Guragobinda 

19-1-61 

Ditto. 

O 

Madhab 

Chandra Das, 



B 

A. T. 

Road, Jorhat. 



—105109 

* 


24-6-60 

Ditto. 

O 

B 

—081296-97 

o J 



3-12-60 

Ditto. 


R. H. SHAW, 

Commissioner of Taxes, Assam. 


No. CST-5/ 59/22883. — 17th March 1961. — In 
pursuance of the provisions of sub-rules (9) and (10) 
of rule 8 of the Central Sales Tax (Accounts and 
Procedure) Rules, 1957, read with sub-section (3) 
of section 13 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, it 
is notified for general information that the following 
declaration forms which are reported to have been 
lost or missing arc declared to be invalid for the 
purpose of sub-section (4) of section 8 of the Central 
Sales Tax Act, 1956, and Central Sales Tax 
(Accounts and Procedure) Rules, 1957:--- 


Serial num- Name amt od< Irani of tho The date Remarks, 
her of forms registered dealer to whom from which 


of declara- 
tion de- 
clared 
invalid. 

the forms were issued. 

the forms 
are de- 
clared as 
invalid. 


B 275251 
to 

B 275275 

Shri Shyum Sunder Agar- 
walia, proprietor of 
Messrs. Gopal Das * 
Co., Gar Ali, Jorhat. 

28-9-57 

The dealer 
left the 

place of 

business 
and his 

whereabout 
is not 

known. 

B 685326 
to 

li 685350. 

Messrs. Economic Stores 
of Naharkatia. 

4-5-60 

Ditto. 

B 463231 
to 

B 463236. 

Messrs. Mangilal Banshi- 
dhar, A. T. Road, ,Jor- 
hat. 

1-4-59 

Lost in 

transit . 


R. H. 

SHAW, 



Commissioner of Taxes, 

Assam. 


MADRAS 

It is hereby notified for the information of all 
concerned that the C declaration form No. J.556329 
under the Central Sales Tax Act issued to Shri 
P. Devany Chchappan, Hill produce merchant, Tiru- 
chur, by Shri A. Kaliyaperumal Padayachi of * 
Kadampuliyur is reported to have been lost in 
transit and it is no longer valid for the purpose of 
section 8(4) of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956. 

T. S. VA1DYANATHAN, 
Commercial Tax Officer. 


4 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


[Part 1A 


List of declaration forms under the Central Sales 
Tax Act, 1956, cancelled. 

BOMBAY 

NOTIFICATION 

Under Sub-rules (12) and (13) of rule 4 of the Central 
Sales Tax (Bombay) Rules, 1957 

Poona, the 22nd September 1961 

No. CD-21 5/4/61 -62/ B-7046. -Whereas it has 
been reported by Shri P. N. Abhyankar, proprietor 
ol business known as Messrs. Shrikrishna Stores, of 
Main Road, Pandharpur, district Sholapur, holders 
of Registration Cert liicate No. BOM-28/L-16, dated 
27th June 1957, issued under the Central Sales Tax 
Act, 1956, that one form of declaration referred to 
in sub-section (4) of section 8 ol the Central Sales 
Tax Act. 1956 (Act No. LXXIV of 1956), in form 
“C”, bearing serial No. D/ 0-012476 issued to him 
has been lost. 

2. I, K. G. Paranjpe, Deputy Commissioner of 
Sales Tax, Central Division, in exercise of powers 
vested in me under sub-rules (12 and 13) of rule 4 of 
the Central Sales Tax (Bombay) Rules, 1957, hereby 
declare that the abovesaid declaration form bearing 
serial No. D/ 0-0 12476 should be considered as 
invalid with effect from 23rd July 1960. 

ILLEGIBLE, 

Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax, 
Central Division, Poona. 

MADRAS 

It is hereby notified for the information of all 
concerned that the following C declaration forms 
under Centra! Sales Tax Act are reported to have 
been lost in transit and that it is no longer valid 
for the purpose of section 8(4) of the Central Sales 
Tax Act, 1956:-- 


Form No. 

Dab' of issin 

' Issm*d by. 

J 1.5 17962 

24 7-59 

Missis Hinny's Kiurma'Ming 



Works Ltd. 

JI.5 18020 

0-4-5!) 

M»'«'naml>akkam, Madras -27. 

Jl. 507 11(1 .. 

IS- 1 00 

to Mossrs. Kiimardlmhi Engg 


Works Limited, Kumardhubi. 


M. SUNDERAMOORTHY, 

Asst. Commercial Tax Officer IV, South 
Madras and Chingleput. 

«r 

Whereas it has been brought to my notice that C 
declaration form bearing No. J. 529 100 issued to Shri 
V. M. Thangavelu Nayagar Son Vellore holding 
R.C. No. 657NARC is said to have been lost; 

Now in pursuance ot rule 10(9) of the Central 
Sales Tax (Madras) Rules, 1957, the Commercial 7'ax 
Officer, North Arcot, hereby notifies for the informa- 
tion of the public and authorities concerned that the 
Said declaration form bearing No. J. 5291 00 is 
declared invalid for the purpose of sub-section 4 of 
jeetion 8 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, and 
lie rules made thereunder. 

M. S. RENGACHARI, 
Commercial Tax Officer. 


By virtue of the powers conferred on me by rule 
10(9) of the Central Sales Tax Act (Madras Rules), 
1957, I, Shri P. Vanamamalai, Commercial Tax 
Officer, Tirunelveli district, hereby declare that the 
following declaration forms issued to Messrs. Pioneer 
Motor Service Private Limited, Marthandam, 
Kanyakumari district, are reported to have been lost 
and they are invalid for the purpose of section 8(4) 
of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956:— 


Name and addross of the doalor 
to whom declaration froniH 
isRuod. 


Rogistration Declaration 
certificate froms lost 
number. 


Messrs. Pioneer Motor Service 3013TNVC! J. 267001 to 
(Private) Limited, Marthan* 267905 

dam, Kanyakumari district, J, 267013 

J. 267014 
J. 267010 to 
,J. 267021 and 
J. 267023 to 
J. 207025. 


NOTIFICATION 

In virtue of the powers conferred on me by sub- 
rule 9 of rule 10 of the Central Sales Tax (Madras) 
Rules, 1957, I, Shri P. Thangavelu, B.A., Assessment 
Commercial Tax Officer II, North Madras, hereby 
declare that the declaration form of the following 
descriptions was lost in transit and it is invalid lor 
the purpose of section 8(4)(a) of the Central Sales 
Tax Act, 1956: — 


Serial number of Name ami address of the Romaikn. 
the C doclara- dealer to whom issued, 
tarn form re- 
ported to bo lost 
in transit 


905S20 Messrs. Oobindmm Murli- 
dhnr jc (V Hardware 
and Tools Merchant, 
37 Vonknt nebula Mudnli 
Street, Madias 3. 


Lost in transit 
when sent to 
Messrs. Atnir- 
wala Indus 
tries, Calcutta. 


It is hereby notified for the information of all 
concerned that the following C declaration forms 
under Central Sales Tax Act is reported to have been 
lost in transit and that it is no longer valid for the 
purpose ol section 8(4) of the Central Sales Tax 
Act, 1956. 

Form Number Date of Issued by 

issue. 

Jl. 510654 .. 2-1-01 Messrs. 3’ he Fuglish Fleet rie Co. 

of India (P) Ltd., Maclroa-27. 
to Messrs. N. Mohan] al <fe Co., 
Bombay. 


ILLEGIBLE, for Jt. Secy. 


Whereas it has been brought to my notice by th< 
dealer in column 4 that the following declaratioi 
in form C bearing the number noted in column 1 
issued to the dealer in column 3 under the Centra 
Sales Tax Act, 1956, has been lost in transit, it i! 
hereby notified for general information of the public 
and the authorities concerned that with effect fron 
the date noted in column 6 against it, the form i‘ 
declared as invalid for the purpose of sub-section 4 
of section 8 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, and 



Part IA] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE JANUARY 4, 1962 


the Central Sales Tax (Madras) Rules, 1957, made 
thereunder: — 

Book No. To whom By whom Juris die When 

rial and form issued. lost or by tiouofthe lost, 

mim- No. re- whom issued OCT. 

bor. ported as with ropis- 

lost. * tration No. 

1 2 3 4 5 6 

1. J/5 252715 Shri Inter. Sri Sales J.C.T.O. 11 3-31 
national Service Harbour 
Bearing Company. II. 

Co. 61, 39, 

Comm]. Tlmmbu 

( IliamborH . Ohett-y 

Mastid Street, 

B under Madras . 

Road, 

Bombay. 

[ILLEGIBLE], Superintendent. 


• KERALA 

No. SRI 0-5620 / 61. — 11th March I961.-In pur- 
suance of the provisions in sub-rule (9) under 
rule 11 of the Central Sales Tax (Kerala) Rules, 1957, 
it is noti.ied for general information that the 
following declaration form is reported to have been 
lost in transit and is invalid for the purpose of sub- 
section (4) under section 8 of the Central Sales Tax 
Act, 1956:— 

Serial No. Date of issue. Name and address of 

of dcolaru- the dealer to whom 

t ion form. issued. 

E. 387519 .. 28-1 1960 Shri M. A. Jacob, Uni- 

versal Radio Sales and 
Service, Mainlikara. 

(C.S.T. R.C.No. J 2/M). 

K. A. KRISHNAN, 

Secretary (Taxes), Board of Revenue, 

Kerala. 

PUNJAB 

It has been reported to the undersigned that the 
declaration forms noted below have either been 
taken away by some unknown person or lost in 
transit. This fact may be given wide public! tv 
among the Assessing Authorities concerned so that 
they may not treat the sales made against these 
deel 'ration forms preferentially: - 

Serial No. of the C To whom issued. 

No. forms. 

1 form E. 1. Messrs. Sita Ram Nand Rain, Bhattu 

No. 722126 Kalan, district Hissar. R. C. No. 

to 722150. HIS.CST.1248. 

2 KO- 336482 to Messrs. Gulati General Stores, Model 

KO-336490. Town, Karnal. R.C. No. KAR. 

CST.2376. 

3 K-650833 . . Messrs. Kundan Lai Durga Djihk of 

Toraori. R.C. No. KAR.CST. 2081. 

4 K-485862 .. Messrs. Kishori Lai, From Sagar, 

KWna. R.C. No. LlJD/CST/14. 

5 404856 to Messrs. Moti Ram Ladha Ram. 

404871 . Bhatinda. R.C. No. BAT.CST* 1 1 34. 

K. L. GROVER, 

for Excise and Taxation Commissioner, 
Punjab. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND 
COMMUNICATIONS 

Department of Transport 
(Transport Wing) 

New Delhi, the 21st November 1961. 
NOTIFICATION 
Ports 

No. 9-PG(84) 61.— In pursuance of sub-section (2) 
of section 6 of the Calcutta Port Act, 1890 (Bengal 
Act III of 1890), it is hereby notified that in accord- 
ance with the provisions of section 15(1) of the said 
Act, Shri M. C. Parckh of Messrs. Khas Jharia 
Collier} Co. (1933) Private Limited, 135 Canning 
Street, Calcutta, has been elected by the Indian 
Chamber of Commerce, Calcutta, to be a Commis- 
sioner for the Port of Calcutta, vice Shri R. P. 
Goenka, who has been granted leave of absence from 
the Commissioners’ meetings for a period of three 
months, with effect from 29th September 1961. 

HARBANS S1NGIL Under Secy. 

DELHI ADMINISTRATION, 

DELHI 

NOTIFICATION 

No. F.l 3(76)/ 61 Press. 2nd December 1961. 
Whereas it appears to the Chief Commissioner, 
Delhi, that the booklet entitled “A Study in the 
Ethics of the Banishment of Sita”, written in 
English, published by “Santa” Magazine, New 
Delhi, and printed at the Delhi Press, New Delhi, 
contains matter, which is deliberately and 

maliciously intended to outrage the religious feel- 
ings of a class of the citizens of India, viz., Hindus 
who regard “Ram” as Autar, by insulting the 
religion or the religious beliefs ol that class, that is 
to say, the matter, the publication of which is 
punishable under section 295A of the Indian Penal 
Code Act (XLV of I860); 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred bv section 99A of the Code of Criminal 
Procedure (Act V of 1898), the Chief Commissioner, 
Delhi, hereby declares to be forfeited to Govern- 
ment every copy of the said booklet and all othei 
documents containing copies, reprints and transla- 
tions of or extracts Irom the said book. 

Bv order, 

K. M. L. GUPTA, 
Under Scev. (Home). 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

Department of Revenue 

New Delhi, the 8th December 1961 
NOTIFICATION 
Income- i ax Fs i ablisiimen i s 

No. 347. -Consequent on his posting as Income-tax 
Officer in the charge of the Commissioner of Income- 
tax, West Bengal, Calcutta, the powers conferred pn 
Shri T. B. Swaminathan by the Ministry of Finance 
(Department of Revenue) notification No. 304- 
Income-tax Establishments, dated 7th October 1961, 
are hereby withdrawn. 

P. S. KAICKER, Under Secy. 




Registered No. C207 



(Ealntttct 





PAUSA 14 ] 


THURSDAY, JANUARY 4, 1962 


l SAKA 18* 


PART IB. — Educational Notices 


DIRECTORATE OF B0ILER8, WEST BENGAL 

1, Hastings 8treet (8th Floor), Calcutta 1 

Dated tho 1-Uli Soplemlior 1 fH» 1 

Tho following candidates are declared to lmvo passed tho Boiler Attendants’ Examination 
imdor tho VVost Bengal Boiler Attendants* Rules, 1958, li< det In tin* l»oaid of Examiners on the 
5th and tith September 1961, at the otTieo of tho Chief Inspector of Boilers, West Bengal, 
1 Hastings Street (8th floor), Calcutta- 1, and have boon awarded certificates of competency 
as under : 


On the 5th September 1961 

* SECOND CLASS CERTIFICATES OF COMPETENT 


Serial 

No. 

Names. 

Addresses. 

1 

Amanmdra Cliandra Roy 

.. C/o. Dredger Bully (C. P. C\), 4 Garden Reach Road. 
Calcutta-23. • 

2 

Modhusudan Saha 

05 Raja Raj Ballnv St root, Calcutta-3. 

3 

Bubulal Kori 

.. C/o ; House of Gluigroo Chowboy, B. L. No. 11, P. O. 
Kank inara, 24-Purgunos. 

4 

Rabindra Nath Das 

. . 8 Kulidas Lane, r. O. Salkja, Howrah. 

5 

nrishikesli Bhattacharya 

. . C/o. Shri A tul Krisbnu Bhattacharya, P. O. Shumnagar. 
21-Pargamis. 

a 

HrishikoHh Dasgupta 

. . C/o. Shri Biron Mukherjee, Basudevjiore Road, Mondal- 
para, P. O. Shamnagar, 24-I’arganas. 

7 

Sanat Kumar Pal 

1 Kapta Para Road, Anthpur, Shamnagar, 24-Parganas. 

8 

Bimal Kumar Chnwdhury 

.. C/o. Kali Ch. Cbowdhury, V ill. Anthjmr, F. 0. Sham- 
nagar, 24-ParganiiK. 

9 

Saruswati Malla . . 

. . C/o. Central Cotton Mills Ltd., 21 2 Girisli Chose Road, 
Belurmath. Howrah. 

10 

Mahabir Ram 

.. C/o. Rahamatulla. Vill. Hospital Basti, P. O. Dum 
Dum Cantt., 2 l-Porgonas. 

11 

Satyaranjan Sircar 

. . C/o. Shri Mohini Mohan Sircar, Bharat Ch. Path, P. 0. 
Shamnagar, 24-Parganas. 

12 

Ram Harat 

.. C/o. House of Saran Darwan, B. L. No. 12, Kankinara, 
24-Parganas. 

13 

Ogra Rajbhar 

• • C/o. House of Jyotisli Baku, Haro Ghose Road, 
Anthjmr, Shamnagar, 24-Parganas. 


2 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


[Part 1 


Serial Names. 

Address's. 

No. 

14 

Sanat Kumar Joardar 

. . C/o. House of Umda Khalifa, B. L. No. 2, P. 0. Jagatdal, 
24 Pargana^. 

15 

Ranjit Kumar Mozumdor 

.. C/o. Shri S. C. Moz und r, Vill. Durdak, Shamnajar, 
24-Parganas. 

10 

Adhir Itanjan Dutta 

. . 28/6 Ram Kamal Street, Calcutta-23. 

17 

Kalyan Rmijan Roy 

1 /88 Azadgarh, 0alcutta-40. 

18 

Molid. Ibrahim 

. . C/o. Kamruddm, G-54/1 Bengali Basti, Garden Reach, 
(falcutta-24. 

10 

Milto Jiajbhar 

C/o. Mulajorn Generating Station (C, E. S. C. Ltd.), 
P. O. Shamnagar, 24-Parganas. 

20 

Jiton Mahat-o 

Office of the Assistant Engineer (P. W. D.), Maidan 
Subdivision, 3/1 St. George Road, Calcutta-22. 

21 

Narayan Chandra Sanyal 

. , C/o. Mulajore Generating Station, (C. E. S. 0. Ltd.), 
P. (). Shamnagar, 24-Parganas. 

22 

Cliowdhuri Meah . . 

.. C/o. Southern Generating Station (C. E. S. C. Ltd.), 
28 Garden Reach Road, Calcutta-24. 

23 

Idu Hossain 

.. C/o. Southern Generating Station (C. K. S. C. Ltd.), 
28 Garden Reach Road, Calcutta- 24. 

24 

Gohm Das 

.. ('/o. Southern Generating Station (C. E. S. • '. Ltd.), 

28 Garden Roach Road. Calcutta-24. 

25 

Riimprnsad Ahir . . 

.. C/o. ,1 amtri Bahar, Lane No. 10, P. O. Kankinara, 
24 Parganas. 

20 

Udi Sahu 

. . 28 Ratneshwar Malia Lane, Howrah. 

27 

Abdul Jubbar 

.. 26/5 Gun Foundry Road, T. 0. Cossipore, Calcutta-2. 

28 

Kadlia Raman Das 

. . 7 Akhil Alistry Lane, Calcutta- 0. 

20 

Mauiudra Kumar Routh 

.. C/o. Harihar Sadhukhan, 34 Watganj Street, Kiddor- 
pore, Calcutta. 

30 

Prosad Chandra Mandal 

.. C/o. Talliih Pumping Station (Boiler House), 71 B. T. 
Road, ( alcutta-2. 

31 

Sk. Ismail 

.. C. E. S. (Quarters, 28 Jhool Roatl, Cossipore, Cal- 

cutta- 2. 

32 

Benov Bliusan Mazuindar 

28 Ekhalporc Lane, Calnutta-23. 

33 

ShfllU l T sman 

C/o. Hara Gouri Rice Mill, 205 Rai A. C. Roy Bahadur 
Road, P. (>. Tollyganj, Caleutta-33. 

31 

Bliola Ram Oownln 

.. C/o. Orient Gas Co.'s Undertaking, 14 Canal West- 
Road, Calcutta 0. 

35 

Jamuna Routli 

, . C/o. Jayer Co., Palta, F. O. Barrakpore, 24-Parganas. 

30 

^rindra Nat h Ghatak 

Vill. Noapara (Raineswar Ghat Road), P. (). Garulia, 
24-PargunuH. 

37 

SU, Dil Mohammad 

.. C/n. •laykuli Rice Mill, Chanak, P. 0. Talpukur, 21- 
Parganas. 

38 

1‘adan rhaudra Naskar .. C/o. Jaduvpur University Power Houho, Calcutta-32. 

On the 6th September 1961 

FIRST CLASS CERTIFICATES OF COMPETENCY 

♦Serial 

Names. 

Addresses. 

No. 

1 

Lnlv*h mi Prasad .. 

.. C/o. M. & S. M. Illy. Talchor Colliery, P. 0. J)er a 
Collierj, district Dhenkunul, Orissa. 

2 

Sk. Sayiduddin Faruqui 

. . C/o. Mulajore Generating Station, Quarters No. 8, P. 0 
Shamnagar, 24-Parganas. 

3 

Biroswar Chattorjoo 

. . C/o. Banorjeeparn Road, T. O. Shamnagar, 24-Parganafl. 

4 

Munm Mahato 

. . C/o. Lansdowne Jute Mills (Boiler House), DakhindArj, 
24 Parganas. 


Part IB] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


3 


Serial Nantos. Addresaos. 

No. 


5 Sit tuiu Mia 

6 Bliupnti Bhusan Chose 

7 M(i. Kasom 

8 Nirmal Kumar Chose 


C/o. House ol Ismail Miu, B. L. No. II, P. O. Kankinara, 
24-Pargana«. 

C/o. Cou repore Electric Supply Co. Ltd., P. O. Garda, 
24-Parganas. 

C/o. IIinduRthan Lever Ltd. (Boilor Hiouso), 03 Carden 
Heach Hoad, Calcutta-24. 

5 Mallick Lane, Cnlcutta-25. 


9 Samsul Hoque 

10 Guru Cliaran Dhusia 


C/o. Dishergarh Power Supply Co. Ltd., V. O. Sitaram- 
pore, district Burdwan. 

C/o. Cossipore Generating Station (C. E. S. C Ltd.), 
28 Jliecl Hoad, Calcutta-2. 


1 

o 

3 

4 


5 


0 

7 

b 

9 

10 

11 


12 


13 

14 

15 

10 


17 


On the 6th September 1961 

SECOND CLASS CERTIFICATES OF COMPETENCY 


Gourunga Kumar Faul 

Biswapati Chakrabarty 

Ohandor Singh Berwal 
Kabir Alimod (II) 

Kalipada Mitra 

Narayan Chnndnr Das 
Mohit Kumar Barman 

Sudhir Kumai Ghosc 

Musafir Singh 

Krislina Copal Saha 

dakhaii Ahjr 

Kandari Charan Jana 

Dor jo Prodhan 
Damodar Bhutia . . 

Gour Chandra, Pan 
Chhog Smgh 
Nankoo 


.. V ill. Amghata, Sliyampore Colony, PohI. Miahoaliganj, 
Nadia. 

Bosepara, Post, Gandalpara, Chandernagore, district 
Hooghly. 

. A/273, See. No. 17, Roworkola-3 (Orissa). 

. C/o. Sroo Kamula Rico Mill, Font. Magra, district 
Hxioghly. 

. . C/o. Kosorutn Rnvon (Boiler House), Post. Navasurai. 
Hooghly. 

. . Vill. Madunporo, Post. Mosanda, district 24-Parganas. 

Quarters No. I 4 L 2/206, Asokc Avenue, Steel ToworHhjp, 
I>urgapur-4, district Burdwan. 

Rishra Government Colony. Plot No. 252, Post. Rishrn. 
Hooghly. 

. Quarters No. EK1, Orient Paper Mills Ltd., IW 
Brajrajnagar, Samhalpore, Onssa. 

19/9 Newton Avenue, “1?” Zone, Durgapur-o, Post, 
and district Burdwan. 

Bangeswan Cotton Mills Ltd., Tost. Rishra, district 
Ilooghlv. 

C/o. (lunges Mnnufanturo Co. Ltd,. Mnzdoor Lino, 
Qunrtorn No. NL-1175, I*. O. Uiin H lx.rio, diHtriet 
Hooghly. 


. . M A. S. M. Rly. Talcher Colliery, Post. l>era Colliery, 
district Dhenkanal (Orissa). 

.. M & S. M. Rly. Talcher Colliery, Post. Dora Colliery, 
district Dhenkanal (Orissa). 

.. C/o Shr ce Krishna Rice Mill. P. O. Salhom, d.st net 
Midnapore. 

. . C/o. Orient Paper Mills Ltd. Powt. BrajrajnaKar. dintriet 
Samhaljiur (Orissa). 

" i^ kt,a 11 Brh “ Post. Kmikinura, 

24-Parganas. 


P. P. CHAKRA BA RT1, 
Secretary, Board of Examiners. 


N.B. — Certificate! will b« distributed on 28th Ssptsmbor 1961, 



4 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


[Part IB 


8TATE COUNCIL FOR ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION, GOVERNMENT OF WE8T BENGAL 

Calcutta, the 16tli August 1961. 

The following candidates are declared to have passed the examination for certificate course in Printing Technology, held in June 

1961. 


Serial 

No. 

Roll 

No. 

Name. 

Division. 

Group Subject. 

Institution. 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

1 

o 

Dilip Kumar Bhattacliarya 

I 

Hand Composition. . 

School of Printing Technology, 
Calcutta-32. 


3 

Nubnl Chandra Ghosh Chaudhury 

I 

Linotype 

Ditto. 

2 

r> 

Jnan Ranjan Das Bnkshi 

1 

Monotype 

Ditto. 

4 

li 

NirmulDo 

I 

Lithography Stone and Pinto- 
making. 

Ditto. 

6 

12 

Dipak Kumar Lohiri 

I 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

6 

19 

Sat \ii Naravan Modak 

I 

Lithography Printing 

Ditto. 

7 

16 

Kartiek Chandra Mujumdur 

I 

Lot tei Press Printing 

Ditto. 

8 

18 

Sibranjim Sen Gupta 

I 

Bookbinding and Packaging . . 

Ditto. 

9 

19 

Nimai Cliand Blmttuchnrya 

I 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

10 

1 

Bislmu Sliaran Singh 

n 

Hand Composition 

Ditto. 

11 

4 

Rathmdu Behnri Ray 

ii 

Linotype 

Ditto. 

12 

6 

Pnrosh Chandra Non 

ii 

Monotype 

Ditto. 

12 

7 

Mukul Roy 

ii 

Letter Press Printing 

Ditto. 

14 

8 

V ldva Nand Tiwnn 

ii 

Bookbinding and Packaging 

Ditto. 

16 

9 

Gopi Nath Nag 

ii 

Photo Mechanical processes 
(Camera operation). 

Ditto. 

16 

10 

Nudliir Chandra Guptu 

ii 

Lithography Art Work and 
Retouching. 

Ditto. 

17 

14 

Leonard Comes 

n 

Lit hography Printing 

Ditto. 

18 

16 

Dehabrnta Bnsu 

ii 

Di tto 

Ditto. 

19 

17 

Amal Kumar Dus 

n 

Linotype 

Ditto. 

20 

20 

Dinosh Chandra Paul 

n 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

A. C. SEN, Secretary, 


State Council for Engineering and Tech- 
nical Education, West Bengal. 

Phone : 22 5119 

GENERAL COUNCIL AND STATE FACULTY OF AYURVEDIC MEDICINE, WEST BENGAL 
8 Lyons Range (2nd floor), Calcutta 1 

NOTIFICATION 

The 26th September, 1961 

It is hereby notified that the dates of commencement of the next Faculty Examinations and for submission of applications wit' 
fees have been f.xed as follows 

Last date for submission of applications and feep 

Dates of commencement , — — — — ^ 

Examinations. of Examinations. (Without late-fee). *(Wit.h lato-foa). 

Language (Sanskrit ) Examinations .. .. 29th November 1961 . . 2 8th October 1961 .. 4 th November 1961. 

Ayurvodtirtlm (A.S.F.) and M.A.S.E. Examinations 28th Decen.bei ltd 1 .. 11th Kom n bei 1901 .. 18th November 1961. 


'{lie. 1 for Language Examination* and Rs. 2 for all other Examinations). 


J. C. BASU, 
Registrar. 



Bart IB] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


5 


DIRECTORATE OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION, 
WEST BENGAL 

Calcutta, the 31st August 1960. 

List of Candidates who passed the Primary Training 
Final Examination for the year 1959 

[Roman figure 1 denotes First Division and II Second 
Division, ‘E’ denotes pass in English (Optional), 
‘P’ indicates private candidates.] 

BANKURA DISTRICT 
Vishnupur P.T. School Centre 

Name of candidate and Division. 

1. Sonatan Chatter jee — II. 

2. Sarojkumar Choudhury— II. 

3. Saktipada Laha — II. 

4. Kajalkumar Singha Roy— II. 

5. Korunamoy Roy— II. 

6. Sadhucharan Mondal — II. 

7. Bimolendu Adhikary — II. 

8. Anathbandhu Bhusan — II. 

9. Bansidhar Dey— II. 

10. Ramgopal Ghose— II. 

11. Badruddin Ahmed— II. 

12. Fakirchandra Gorain — II. 

13. Bhutnath Sarkar— II. 

14. Ramranjan Roy II. 

15. Biswanath Sen — II. 

16. Gourgopal Dey — II. 

17. Aditya Prosad Sen — II. 

18. Provakar Pal — II. 

19. Provakar Pan -II. 

20. Badal Ch. Ghanteswari— II. 

21. Satyakinkar Palit — II. 

22. Nabagopal S. Mahapatra— II. 

23. Dharanidhar Roy — II. 

24. Santosh Kumar Panja — II. 

25. Tarapada Pal — II. 

26. Nerode Baran Banerjee— II. 

27. Madan Mohan Dutta — II. 

28. Sunil Baran Banerjee— II. 

29. Kalipada Chakravarty— II. 

30. Jonardan Mukhcrjec- II. 

31. Sk. Md. Badaruddoja— II. 

32. Ahmed Ajijur Rahman — II. 

33. Pashupati Kundu — II. 

34. Kanailal Ghose — II. 

P35. Bijoy Gobinda Chakravarty— II. 

P36. Tulsidas Roy— II. 

P37. Rampada Sangiri — II. 

HOWRAH DISTRICT 
Amtola P. T. School Centre at Belkulai 

Name of candidate and Division. 

38. Bishnu Pada Maity — II. 

39. Baidyanath Patra— II. 

40. Md. Fakir Ahmad Mollah — II. 

41. Sri Jagneswar Utthasani — II. 

42. Govinda Ch. Mollick — II. 

43. fahar Lai Sen — II. 

44. Kartick Ch. Chakraborty— II. 

45. Murari Mh. Banerjee — II. 

46. Brindabon Maity — II. 

47. Tulsi Ch. Sasmal — II. 

48. Sk. Yeakub Ali — II. 

49. Monmatha N. Ghorai — II. 

50. Pran Kr. Das II. 


Name of candidate and Division. 

51. Jugal Ch. Mondal — II. 

52. Phani Bh. Chatterjee — II. 

53. Karuna Sindhu Sarkar — II. 

54. Chittaranjan Dan — II. 

55. Amulyodhan Samanta— II. 

56. Sk. Muhammed Ibrahim — II. 

57. Bishnu Pada Mabhoi — II. 

58. Bishnu Pada Hazra —II. 

59. Ashim Ch. Ghosh — II. 

60. Khandu Ch. Chakraborty —II. 

61. Jadu N. Misra— II. 

62. Nimai Ch. Banerjee — II. 

63. Bhupati Ch. Manna — II. 

64. Tarapada Mukherjee— II. 

65. Biman Behari Jetti — II. 

66. Krishna K. Debnath — II. 

67. Kalyani Ghosh — II. 

68. Lila Rani Murmu — II. 

69. Ramala Roy— II. 

70. Labanya Chakraborty — II. 

71. Niva Rani Ghosh — II. 

72. Urmila Choudhury— -II. 

73. Biva Chakraborty — II. 

74. Porimal Prova Dutta — II. 

75. Snehalata Guha — II. 

76. Parul Rani Ghosh — II. 

P77. Md. Rouson Janan — II. 

P78. Jiban Kr. Maity— II. 

PURULIA DISTRICT 
Sanka Junior Training School Centre 

Name of candidate and Division. 

79. Gaya Ram Mahato — II. 

80. Kamala Kanta Gope— II. 

81. Sarat Chandra Mahato— 11. 

82. Mahadeb Chandra Mukherjee — II. 

83. Jagabandhu Raut— II. 

84. Sudhir Chandra Mandal — II. 

85. Sanatan Mahato — II. 

86. Salagram Mahato — II. 

87. Sheikh Rahaman — II. 

88. Jitendra Nath Mahato— II. 

89. Surath Chandra Kumbhakar — II. 

90. Gokul Chandra Mudi — II. 

91. Bhusan Chandra Mahato — II. 

92. Renghu Majhi *11. 

93. Upendra Nath Mahato — II. 

94. Sadananda Sarnakar — II. 

95. Guru Pada Roy — II. 

96. Sahadeb Adhikary— II. 

97. Hrishikesh Goswami —II. 

98. Shib Charan Ghose — II. 

99. Dharam Das Mahato — II. 

100. Sibeswar Mahato -II. 

101. Sachi Nandan Majee — II. 

102. Raja Ram Layek — II. 

103. Purna Chandra Patra — II. 

104. Tarani Sen Mahato — II. 

105. Bauri Das Mahato — II. 

106. Pashupati Dass — II. 

107. Dasarath Mahato — II. 

108. Dhruba Lai Mahato — II. 

109. Nasir Ahammad Kazi — II. 

110. Bibhuti Bhusan Mahapatra — II. 

111. Santosh Kumar Pati — II. 

112. Hari Ram Mahato— II. 

113. Data Ram Mahato — II. 

114. Jagneswar Sarkar — II. 

115. Ghanashyam Mahatha— II. 


6. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


[Tart IB 


SB 


Name of candidate and Division. 

116. Prafulla Kumar Mahato — II. 

117. Parikshit Mahato (ii) — II. 

118. Kali Pada Mardana— II. 

119. Rajen Ketiers— II. 

120. Sahadeb Chakraborty— II. 

121. Bankim Chandra Roy — II. 

122. Jyoti Lai Kumar Mahato— II. 

123. Akhoy Mahato— II. 

124. Nepal Chandra Majhi — II. 

Private Candidates — Bihar Syllabus 

.P125. Bhaba Taran Mahato — II. 

P126. Mati Lai Mahanty— 11. 

PI 27. Gaya Ram Mahato— II. 

P128. Nuna Ram Mahato — IT. 

PI 29. Hari Pada Ghosal— II. 

Pi 30. Bibhuddheswar Sahababu— II. 

PI 31. Anadi Nath Hazra-II. 

Pi 32. Murulidhar Scngupta— II. 

Pi 33. Nikunjeswar Sahababu— TI. 

PI 34. Nagendra Nath Mahato — II. 

PI 35. Nil Mohan Mahato— II. 

PI 36. Patal Chandra Mahato- II. 

PI 37. Gour Chand Mondal—II. 

PI 38. Kali Pada Mahato— II. 

PI 39. Judhisthir Mahato II. 

PI 40. Gosta Bihari Chakraborty II. 

PI 4 1 . Bauri Kanta Mahato— II. 

PI 42. Madan Mohan Mandal— II. 

PI 43. Rabi Lochan Mandal— II. 

PI 44. Natabar Majee— II. 

P145. Nathu Ram Mahato— II. 

PI 46. Ganga Narayan Choudhury— IL 
PI 47. Trilochan Kumbakar — II. 

P148. Atul Chandra Mahato— II. 

PI 49. Hangseswar Gorain— II. 

PI 50. Rasaraj Mahato (i) — II- 
P151. Hangseswar Mahato -II. 

PI 52. Mahadeb Mahato -II. 

PI 53. Amulya Ratan Mahato — II. 

PI 54. Trilochan Mahato—II. 

P155. Harekrishna Mahato — II. 

P156. Deb Narayan Singh— II. 

PI 57. Mahendra Nath Mahato — II. 

PI 58. Ambujakshya Mahato — II. 

PI 59. Shree Charan Majhi — II. 

MALDA DISTRICT 

Maid a Government P. T. School Centre 

Name of candidate and Division. 

160. Md. Golam Ian— II. 

161. Raisuddin Ahammed — II. 

162. H aren d ran a th Sa rk a r— 1 1 . 

163. Alimuddin Ahammed II. 

]64.« Md. Saker -II. 

165. Md. Warcsh— II. 

166. Md. Monjur Rahman— IT. 

167. Moslemuddin Mia— II. 

168. Tamizuddin Ahammed— II. 

169. Surendranath Mondal— II. 

170. Pasupati Jha — II. 

171. Dhan Mohammed Mia— II. 

172. Dhananjov Kumar Das— II. 

173. Manmatha Nath Das— II. 

1 74. Kamdeb Choudhury— II. 

175. Bhupal Chandra Das— II. 

176. Harendra Narayan Das— II. 

177. Moslemuddin Ahammed — II. 

178. Naresh Chandra Mandal— II. 


Name of candidate and Division. 

179. Sm. Prativa Sen — II. 

180. Sm. Namita Ray— II. 

181. Upendra Nath Ray — II. 

182. Khagendra Nath Ray Mondal — II. 

183. Sudhir Ranjan Das— II. 

184. Bejoy Krishna Ray— II. 

185. Md. Hafijul Haaue— II. 

186. Jatindranath Sarkar — II. 

187. Debendra Nath Sarkar— II. 

188. Charan Tudu— II. 

189. Md. Sekandar Ali— II. 

190. Habibuddin Ahammed — II. 

191. Lokman Haque — II. 

192. Md. Siddique Hossain — II. 

193. Kshitish Chandra Saha — II. 

194. Ramkishore Dubey — II. 

195. Keshab Chandra Barman — II. 

196. Jarifuddin Ahammed— II. 

197. Biswanath Sarkar— II. 

PI 98. Akshoy Kumar Sarkar — II. 

PI 99. Surendranath Sarkar — II. 

P200. Afajuddin Ahammed— II. 

P201. Abraham Murmu — II. 

P202. Md. Jillur Rahaman — II. 

P203. Bhim Chandra Murmu — II. 

P204. Bhutesh Chandra Goswami— II. 

P205. Sudhir Chandra Adhikari— II. 

P206. Nabin Chandra Sarkar— II. 

P207. Md. Ayub Ali— II. 

P208. Mongal Soren — II. 

P209. Kalipada Sarkar - II. 

P210. Bata Krishna Das -II. 

P211. Bhajo Gobinda Das— II. 

P212. Lai Mohammed — II. 

P213. Nabin Chandra Mondal— II. 

24-PARGANAS DISTRICT 

Diamond Harbour High School Centre — Diamond 
Harbour P. T. School 

Name of candidate and Division. 

214. Anil Baran Mondal— II. 

215. Md. Idris Ali Munshi — II. 

216. Md. Abdul Wahab— II. 

217. Md. Golam Bari— II. 

218. Sambhu Charan Ghosh — II. 

219. Bishnupada San — II. 

220. Md. Akhtorul Islam — II. 

221. Surath Ch. Haidar — II. 

222. Bimalendu Mondal — II. 

223. Md. Abdul .Mannan — II. 

224. Md. Unus Ali— II. 

225. Md. Arfat Ali Jamadar— II. 

226. Md. Raihan Ali Gazi — II. 

227. Barendra N. Banerjee— II. 

228. Bhupal Ch. Mondal II. 

229. Sunil Kumar Mukherjee— II. 

230. Ritendu Bhusan Haidar— II. 

Kulpi P. T. School 

231. Kumud Ranjan Kumar — II. 

232. Saktipada Utthasini— II. 

233. Syed Narul Islam — II. 

234. Syed Sadrul Islam — II. 

235. Nishikanta Pradhan — II. 

236. Ram Pada Bag — II. 

237. Philip Majhi — II. 

238. Md. Fazalar Rahaman Molla — II. 

239. Dulal Ch. Mukherjee — II. 

240. Satyaranjan Mayra — II. 

241. Chandi Charan Purkait — II. 


FART 1UJ 


THU UAJJUUm UABJKJTTJBi, JANUARY 4, 1962 


7 


Jaynagar P. T. School 

Name of candidate and Division. 

242. Prasanta Kumar Mondal — II. 

243. Anshuman Mondal — II. 

244. Sirajuddin Md. Abdul Amir Sardar — II. 

245. Kuntal Kumar Das — II. 

246. Md. Akbar Ali Laskar — II. 

247. Nandalal Naskar — II. 

248. Md. Abdul Hossain Baidya — II. 

249 Jamizuddin Miday — II. 

250. Durgadas Ghosh — II. 

251. Shamsuddin Ahmed — II. 

252. Md. Kader Boksha Haidar — II. 

253. Dulal Chand Ghosh — II. 

Basirhat High School Centre — Basirhat P. T. School 

254. Amiya Kanti Paul — II. 

255. Dhirendra Nath Sarder — 11. 

256. Sukriti Lai Banerjee — II. 

257. Sudhin Kumar Bain — II. 

258. Mcl. Mujibar Rahaman — II. 

259. Sristidhar Barik — II. 

260. Tulshidas Paul — II. 

261. Siba Prosad Hazra — II. 

262. Tarapada Haidar — II. 

263. Baikuntha Nath Maity — II. 

264. Umcsh Chandra Pradhan — II. 

265. Gobinda Prosad Das — II. 

P266. Sm. Kalyani Mitra— II. 

Iswarigacha P.T. School 

267. Tarapada Sardar — II. 

268. Anil Kumar Biswas- -II. 

269. Nanda Kumar Haidar — II. 

270. Sudhir Kumar Sil — II. 

271. Krishnapada Chose — II. 

272. Arshad Ali Mondal — II. 

273. Sk. Abdul Aziz— II. 

274. Sk. Narimuddin — II. 

275. Shyamapada Sutradhar — II. 

276. Md. Karim Baksh— II. 

277. Sanatan Howli — II. 

P278. Kalidas Ghosh— II. 

Ghatboar P. T. School Centre 

279. Nilima Sen Gupta — II. 

280. Anu Sen Gupta —II. 

281. Sephali Bose — II. 

282. Annapurna Sen Gupta — II. 

283. Gayatri Mukherjec— II. 

284. Amiya Mukherjee — II. 

285. Chaya Rani Bose— II. 

286. Rekha Bhattacharya — II. 

287. Priya Bala Banerjee — II. 

288. Bijoya Gupta — II. 

289. Maya Rani De — II. 

290. Sunity Chowdhury — II. 

291. Amiya Dutt Chowdhury— II. 

292. Uma Rani Ghosh — II. 

293. Mira Karmakar — II. 

294. Archana Karmakar — II. 

295. Jhama Rani Roy — II. 


BURDWAN DISTRICT 
Burdwan Primary Training School Centre 

Name of candidate and Division 

296. Khudiram Kundu— II. 

297. Biswanath Modak— II. 

298. Tulsidas Sarkar — II. 

299. Nanigopal Chakraborty —II. 

300. Santiram Batabyal — II. 

301. Balailal De— II. 

302. Sm. Rama Shyam — II. 

303. Matiial Nath— II. 

304. Saktipada Banerjee —II. 

305. Md. Yad Ali— II. 

306. Chandan Kumar Chatterji — II. 

307. Phani Bhusan Banerjee — II. 

308. Anil Kumar Pal- -II. 

309. Nabagopal Patra—II. 

310. Radhashyam Kowar — II. 

311. Mohini Mohan Rej- *II. 

312. Md. Golum Gous — II. 

313. Md. Johad Ali— II. 

314. Sorasipada Mukhcrji — II. 

315. Joygopal Goswami —II. 

316. Pankaj Kumar Nayck — II. 

317. Jamini Kusum Adhikari— II. 

318. Dhananjoy Garai— II. 

319. Dinabandhu Majumder — II. 

320. Gouranga Chandra Das — II. 

321. Mahadev Chatterjee — II. 

322. Chandra Sekhar Ghosal — II. 

323. Basanta Kumar Ganguli — II. 

324. Md. Gahar Ali— II. 

325. Subodh Kumar Ghosh — II. 

326. Rampada De — II. 

327. Tarapada Chatterjee — II. 

328. Bimal Kumar Goon — II. 

329. Satyanarayan Koley— II. 

330. Narayan Chandra Modak — II. 

331. Kalipada Pal- II. 

332. Himangshu K. Chakraborty— II. 

333. Sk. Abdul Waheb — II. 


MIDNAPORE DISTRICT 

Contai Primary Training School Centre 

Name of candidate and Division. 

334. Uma Kanta Jana — II. 

335. Mahadev Das — II. 

336. Gobinda Murmu — II. 

337. Radhashyam Giri — II. 

338. Bonabehari Barman — II. 

339. Jatindranath Sasmal— II. 

340. Profulla Kumar Mahapatra — II. 

341. Balaram Giri — II. 

342. Sudhir Chandra Pahari— II. 

343. Aswini Kumar Sahoo- II. 

344. Satish Chandra Mahata — II. 

345. Prajapati Maity — II. 

346. Lakshmi narayan Acharyya— II. 

347. Bankim Chandra Jana— II. 

348. Jhareswar Das— II. 

349. Bankim Behari Boxi— II. 

350. Bipin Behari Das— II. 

351. Bidhu Bhusan Jana — II. 

352. Sudhir Kumar Pradhan— II. 

353. Rabindranath Paria — II. 



8 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


[Part M 


Name of candidate and Division. 

354. Sasanka Sekhar Jana— II. 

355. Sk. Naser Ali — II. 

356. Dibakar Pradhan— II. 

357. Sashi Sekhar Das— II. 

358. Pradyumna Kumar Bhunia II. 

359. Ajit Kumar Sahoo — II. 

P360. Ananta Kumar Das— II. 

Garhbeta Primary Training School Centre 

361. Surendranath Mahata— II. 

362. Jiban Krishna Mahata— 11. 

363. Paramanda Bilash — II. 

364. Kalipada Giri — II. 

365. Bhutnath Jana— II. 

366. Sasanka Sekhar Rana— II. 

367. Gourhari Dash- -II. 

368. Amulya Ratan Banik— II. 

369. Durgeshnandan Bag Roy 11. 

370. Bejoy Krishna Jana— II. 

371. Sudhir Ch. Mondal— II. 

372. Bibhuti Bhusan Bera— II. 

373. Sanaton Baskey— II. 

374. Ram Chandra Paria— II. 

375. Kedarnath Guria— II. 

376. Satyabhusan Das— II. 

Nimtola Primary Training School Centre 

377. Ratiranjan Singha Roy— II. 

378. Satyapada Chakrabarti— II. 

379. Sankarprasad Adhikari II. 

380. Tarapada Roy— II. 

381. Sukumar Maity— II. 

382. Harekrishna Bera— II. 

383. Santosh Kumar Patra— II. 

384. Sadhan Ch. Chakrabarti— II. 

385. Md. Tofazzar Hossain— II. 

386. Ram Chandra Scnapati— II. 

387. Moni Mohan Samanta— II. 

388. Baneswar Maity— II. 

389. Lakshmi Kanta Khara — II. 

390. Sudhir Ch Das— II. 

391. Rajendranath Mahato— II. 

BIRBHUM DISTRICT 
Suri Primary Training School Centre 

Name of candidate and Division 

392. Sulapani Mondal — II. 

393. Mohini Mohan Das — II. 

394. Subodh Kumar Saha — II. 

395. Subal Chandra Mondal — II. 

396. Pranab Kumar Sen -II. 

397. Rama Prosad Banerjee— II. 

398. Golam Mustafa— II. 

399. Niamatulla Sheikh — II. 

400. Kalipada Sinha— II. 

401. Samuel Tudu— II. 

402. Ananda Mohan Pal— II. 

403. Narayan Chandra Mai— II. 

404. Md. Samsujjoha — II. 

405., Nepal Chandra Rajak— II. 

406. ” Sachidulal Chakravorty— II. 

407. Satya Ranjan Roy— 11. 

•408. Amulya Ratan Mondal — II. 

409. Sripatinath Sarkar— II. 

410. Sadananda Choudhury— II. 

411. Sasanka Shekhar Mondal— II. 

412. Md. Behatar Hossain— II. 


Name of candidate and Division. 

413. Anil Kumar Mondal — II. 

414. Dwarikanath Dutta — II. 

41 5. Abdus Samad— II. 

416. Sk. Danesh Ali— II. 

41 7. Baidyanath Mukherjee — II 

418. Abdur Rob — II. 

419. Pramathanath Sar — II. 

420. Muchiram Roy — II. 

421. Md. Eahia — II. 

422. Prithwi Hembram — II. 

423. Ghanashyam Garain — II. 

424. Narayan Ch. Banerjee — II. 

425. Nakuleswar Mondal — II. 

426. Aswini Kumar Mondal — II. 

427. Giriza Kinkar Dey — II. 

428. Sudhir Kumar Mondal — II. 

429. Lakshmi Janardan Ghose — II. 

430. Brojendra Kumar Sinha — II. 

P431. Kumarish Ch. Mondal— II. 


NADIA DISTRICT 
Krishnagar P. T. School Centre 

Name of candidate and Division. 

432. Ram Ratan Malakar — II. 

433. Dinesh Chandra Saha — II. 

434. Bimalendu Biswas — II. 

435. Md. Iman Ali — II. 

436. Monoranjan Ghose — II. 

437. Hare Krishna Biswas — II. 

438. Narayan Chandra Mandal — II. 

439. Badal Kumar De— II. 

440. Ranjit Kumar Raha— II. 

441. Mihir Kanti Das- II. 

442. Mukunda Prosad Das — II. 

Palashipara P. T. School Centre 

443. Panchu Gopal Chakraborti — II. 

444. Dibakar Chandra — II. 

445. Samarendra Kar — II. 

446. Pashupati Ghose Choudhury— II. 

447. Alauddin Mondal - II. 

448. Bhupendra Nath Sarkar— II. 

449. Kartik Ch. Biswas — II. 

450. Md. Abdul Bari— II. 

Krishnagar Government P. T. School Centre 

451. Rina Adhikary — II. 

452. Juthika Sarkar — II. 

453. Sand Rani Nag — II. 

454. Krishna Kumari Goswami — II. 

455. Mirabati Bose -II. 

456. Radha Rani Guha Mustafi — II. 

457. Parul Sarkar — II. 

458. Bela Das— II. 

459. Kamalini Bain II. 

460. Gayatri Adhikary — II. 

461. Gita Rani Biswas — II. 

462. Smriti Rani Ghosh Roy — II. 

463. A run a Dutta — II. 

464. Renuka Rani Raha- —II. 

465. Brajarama Chakravarty — II. 

466. Monarama Debi — II. 

467. Nikhil Kanta Nag Sarkar — II. 

468. Bhabatosh Majumdar — II. 

469. Sasadhar Chandra Aich — II. 


Pakt IB] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4. 1962 


9 


Name of candidate and Division. 

470. Kali Narayan Bhatta — 11. 

471. Sunil Kumar Biswas — II. 

472. Gita Charan Raha Roy — II. 

473. Jagadish Chandra Saha— II. 

474. Arabinda Kumar Saha — II. 

475. Jagannath Dutta — II. 

476. Subhas Chandra Bose — II. 

477. Jagadish Chandra Biswas — II. 

478. Amalananda Majumdar — II. 

479. Ananda Mohan Ghosh — 11. 

480. Gopal Chandra Khamaria — II. 

481. Rebati Mohan Ghosh — II. 

482. Kishori Mohan Roy— II. 

483. Girindra Lai Bhattacharyya — II. 

484. Kcshab Ranjan Chakravarty — II. 

485. Anil Kanta Chakravarty — II. 

486. Benoy Kumar Biswas — II. 

487. Ananda Mohan Bose -II. 

488. Manoranjan Mukherjee^-Il. 

* Debagram P. T. School Centre 

489. Nagendra Nath Roy — II. 

490. Manindra Nath Das — II. 

491. Prakash Chandra Laskar -II. 

492. Md. Fazlul Haque — II. 

493. Md. Maminuddain Ahmed II. 

494. Md. Osman Gani -11. 

195. Sushanta Kum&r Kundu -II. 

496. Privalal Biswas II. 

497. Md. Abdul Nur- -II. 

HOOGHLY DISTRICT 

Hooghly Government Primary Training School 
Centre 

Name of candidate and Division. 

498. Mudhusudan Maity II. 

499. Rameswar Samanta II. 

500. Sailendra Nath Bancrjce 11. 

501. Sital Chandra Samanta I. 

502. Bada! Chandra Manna II. 

50 1 Dulal Chandra Pramanik II. 

501 Nilyananda Guchait 11. 

505 Mahadcb Paul II. 

>06. Survakanta Paul II. 

5 07. Netai Podo Adhikari II. 

508 Bishnu Pado Pramanik II. 

509. Murari Mohan Acharya - II. 

5 ! 0. Nalini Kanta Panja — II. 

51 1 Gopikrishna Mondal 11. 

Sankai Chandra Hensh 11. 

' I > Cop il Chandra Bhowmik - ]J. 

5M. Keba Bagchi-Jl. 

515. Niva mini Nag — 11. 

516. Arati Bhuttacharya II. 

5*7. Anjali Mukherjee II. 

518 Iva Bhattacharya — 11. 

519 Gceta Chatterjee -II. 

520. Ava Rani Bardhan — II. 

521. Gouri Mukherjee -II. 

522. Mava Rani Chatterjee -II. 

523. Nilima Gautam— II. 

5 34. Kalyani Chakravortv -II. 

5 1 5. Arati Rani Sarkar — II. 

5^6. Kana Sen — II. 

527. Bina Ghatak— II. 

328. Hcmuprova Sen Gupta- -II. 

529. Binapani Chakravorty — II. 

529A. Kin i d Knmini Banerjee — II. 

P530. Kartik Chandra Bera— II. 


llsoba Government Primary Training School Centre 

Name of candidate and Division. 

531. Molla Abdus Salam — 11. 

532. Abdul Hafiz Mondal — II. 

533. Sk. Ansar Ali —II. 

534. karunamoy Bose II. 

535. Sk. Sirazul Haque II. 

536. Sk. Abdul Enami—Il. 

537. Sk. Abdus Samad— II. 

538. Sk. Sahahadat Ali — II. 

539. Md. Anisul Haque II. 

540. Ajit Kumar Chandra— II. 

541. Kamai Krishna Roy— II. 

542. Joydeb Pal II. 

543. Manindra Nath Dey--ll. 

544. Gobinda Ch. Paul II. 

545. Phani Bhusan Chakravorty II. 

546. Jagabandhu Koley — II. 

P547. Jahurul Haque Mallick- II. 

Nalikul Government Primary Training School Centre 

548. Kalipada Bera II. 

549. Bimal Ch. Sasmal- II. 

559. Durluv Ch. Chakravorty 11. 

551. Subodh Kr. Banerjee- 11. 

552. JIarakinkar Haidar II. 

55 3. Sadhan Ch. Das — II. 

554. Sailendra Nath Ghosh II. 

555. Kishori Mohan Chatterjee 11. 

556. Sushil Kr. Basu II. 

557. Dulal Ch. Pan -II. 

558. Kanailal Chakravorty II. 

559. Haran Chandra Chatterjee II. 

560. Panchanan Singha II. 

561. Gourdas Brahmachary II. 

562. A joy Kr. Chakravorty II. 

563. Radhashyam Gharai II. 

P564. Bind n Basmi Sarkar II. 

P565. I laradhan Chakravorty II. 

Gogh at Government Primary Training School Centre 

566. Nilyananda Hazari II. 

567. Sanat Kr. Chatterjee 11. 

568. Jugal Kishore Pal II. 

569. Kamakshya Charan Maji II. 

570. Kashinath Mondal 11. 

571. Basudeb [ana II. 

572. Gour Mohan Maity II. 

573. Prasanna Kr. Pasari II. 

574. Bihhuti Bhusan Chatterjee Ji. 

575. Umapati Ha/ra II. 

576 Sailemlia Nath Roy II. 

577. Jugal Kishore Maitv II. 

578. Baidya Nath Ghosh— II. 

579. Gopal Gobinda Ghosh II. 

580. Bimal Kanti Mukherjee If. 

5.81. Satva Charan Mitra II. 

5.82 Lalit Mohan Chakravorty-- II. 

581. Bibhuli Bhusan Rov II. 

584. Durgapada Misra II. 

Vishnupur P. T. School Centre 

585. Shri Madan Mohan Pratihar II. 

586 Shri A tul Chandra Chose II. 

587. Shri Ranidas Bhanja II. 

588. Shri Bhubon Mohon Choudhury II 

589. Shri Monoranjan Banerjee II. 

590. Shri Kalipada Pramanik II. 

591. Shri Sibaram Roy- II. 

592. Shri Bahrain Choudhury- -II. 

593. Shri Sitaram Majhi - -II. 


10 ' 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


[Part lft 


Name of candidate and Division. 

594. Shri Md. Sadeque Molla— II. 

595. Shri Sunil Baran Mukherjee — II. 

596. Shri Baidyanath Gupta- II. 

597. Shri Purnachandra Paul — II. 

598. Shri Syed Golam Mugni — II. 

599. Shri Balika Bhusan Man — II. 

600. Shri Kshudiram Mukherjee — II. 

601. Shri AdUya Bhusan Pandey — II. 

Shri Toikahari Sarkar — II. 

605. Shri Benny Krishna Biswas— II. 

604. Shri Sakii pad a Choudhury — II. 

605. Shri Kalipada Sarkar -II. 

606. Shri Basudev Karmakar— II. 

607. Shri Kalachand Roy -II. 

608. Shri Manasaram Kundu — II. 

609. Shri Chittaranjan Patra- II. 

610. Shri Sahebram Saren — 11. 

611. Shri Chittaranjan Mukherjee— -II. 

612. Shri Abhayapada Ghosal -II. 

615. Shri Sasthi Charan Roy — II. 

614. Shri Karalikinkar Patra— II. 

615. Shri Biswannth Mondal— II. 

616. Shri Niranjan Kumar Pal — II. 

617. Shri Durgacharan Barat -II. 

618. Shri Pamnjay Patra- II. 

619. Shri Madhmudan Deghoria — II. 

620. Shri Kalipada Singha — II. 

671. Shri Bon Behari Ghosh -IT. 

622. Shri Bholanath Batabyal— II. 

625. Sliri Bibhuti Bhusan Tewari— -II. 

624. Shri Sudhirkumar Bhattacharji — II. 

P625. Shri Anil Krishna Patra— II. 

P626. Shri Bathandas Bancrjee -II. 

P627. Shri Sadhu Charan Choudhury —II. 

BERHAMPUR— MURSIIIDABAD DISTRICT 
Bcrhampur P.T. School 

Name of Candidate and Division. 

628. Uma Mazumdar - II. 

629. Ksluma Probha Saha— II. 

630. Kamala Bhattachcrjce— 11. 

651. Minati Bhattacherjee* 11. 

632. Namita Mukherjee II. 

613. Mnva Rani Sen Gupta— II. 

634. Chayanika Sanval -II. 

6 35. Lakshtni Das II. 

6 36. Joya ( .‘hottopadhaya—ll. 

637. Probod 1 1 Kumar Sin ha Ray — II. 

6 38 Nitai Chandra Ganguli II. 

OR Md. Rezaul Hoque II. 

640. Md ka/emuddin II. 

Ml. Sh.ivamapada Biswas il 
6*12. # Md. Avul) Ilossain 11. 

64 ’A. Bhahatosh Prnmanik II. 

(43. Samsuddin Ahmed !1 
(dk Sul ok ha Rav II. 

6 1 r > Md Rahnddin Mond »l (Ahmed)— II. 

6 16, Dipali Banerjet* II. 

617. IVbi Thakur (B.mdopadhya)— II. 

(*48. Sabi t a Barker II. 

649. Md. Abdur Rashid II. 

650. Mukundalal Sarker II. 

^>51. Hom Copal Biswas II. 

65 L Duhil C’hamlra Mondal II. 

('5 3. Madhusudlum Chose— II. 

654 Ajit Kumar Sarnia Sarker— II. 

655 Chitta Ranja” Das Gupta — II. 

656. Kanti Ram Sarker — II. 


Name ol candidate and Division. 

657. M L Fkramul Hoque — II. 

658. San tosh Kumar Ray — II. 

659. Ranajit Kumar Das— II. 

660. Md. Ekram Ali Mondal — II. 

661. ML Naimuddin — 11. 

662. Probod h Chandra Paramanik — II. 

663. Md. Mansurur Rahman — II. 

661. Subhas Chandra Mondal — II. 

Pratapgan; P. T. School 

665. Md. Mohsin — II. 

666. A/izur Rahman -II. 

667. Md. Mozammel Hoque — II. 

668. Kisinrth Tewari — Ii. 

669. L; kshr.ian Chandra Das — II. 

670. Atml Kasem—II. 

671. Biswanath Sarker— II. 

672. Shyama Kanta Ghosh — II. 

673. Tupan Kumar Sarkar — II. 

674. Probodh Kumar Das - II. 

675. Md. Giasuddin-- II. 

676. Md. Abdul Kuddus — II. 

677. Nap.eivira Nath Ray — II, 

678 Kishori Mohan Das — II. 

67°. M.idan Prosad Cohosh- II. 

P680. Md. Nu nil Hoque II. 

Kandi P. T. School 

681. Habib, r Rah ur.an— - II. 

682. Annada Prosad Mondal -II. 

683. Duksh* Bhanjan Das- II. 

684. I bnaprJa Ghosh- II. 

685. Badruqaman If. 

686. Abdul Gaffar—II. 

687. Murari Mohan Ghosh- -II. 

688. Golok Nath Ghosh- II. 

689. Tampa Ja Chose II. 

690. Monoranjan Dey -II. 

691. Aehinta Pada Ray -II. 

692. Md. \ ad Hocsnhi -IL 

P6 93. Shvani.'p ula Bhnttaeheriec- 11. 

P694. KainaL p,:li Sarker —II. 

P695. Knnui Chandra Pal II. 

P6%. A'duite ih Chakmbartv IL 
P697. Abu! kliaver IL 


Malihati P. T. School 

(»9X. Si ad at Hossain IL 

699. Ram < iopal Chose -II. 

700. Nareedra Nat-h Deb Sinha IL 
701 A^haudtljn Sekh 11. 

0?. Abinash < ii.nuir.i Ray - 11. 

'/ 0 3. Ramani Mohan Das -II. 

704. r li I sb i Ram Karniokar - -II. 

705. Subhas Kumar Thakur 1 1. 

’ 06. A jit Kumar Sarker -II. 

707. Paslnipati Dutta IL 

708 Luther Kuiur- — II. 

709. Narcndra Chandn Aehcrjce- II. 

710. S.ichidulal Chatterjec IL 

711. Mohinuirjnjan Ghosh 11. 


ILLEGIBLE, 
lor Chief Inspector, 
Primary and Basic Education 


Pakt IB] 


TIIE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 




STATE COUNCIL FOR ENQINEERINO AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION, WE8T BENGAL. 

Dated the 17th March 1901. 

The following candidates are declared to have passed the Lioentiate Examination in Civil Engineering held in Deoembor 1960. 


Serial 

No. 

Roll 

No. 

Name, 

Division 

or 

class. 

Name of the Institution. 

1 

30 

Gour Chandra Paul Choudhury 

I 

R. K. Mission Shilpa Mandira, Belur Math. 

2 

31 

Asim Kumar Bera 

I 

Ditto. 

3 

36 

Manab Kumar Bandyopadhyay 

I 

Ditto. 

4 

66 

Bishwa Nath Datta 

I 

Jhargram Polytechnic, Jhargram. 

5 

140 

Dilip Kumar Ghosh 

I 

K. G. Engineering Institute, Vishnupura. 

6 

4 

Bishwa Nath Saha 

II 

Sroo R. K. Silpa Vidyapith, Suri. 

7 

7 

Atul Prasad Datta . . 

II 

Ditto. 

8 

• 8 

Surendra Nath Sarkar 

II 

Ditto. 

9 

9 

Arun Chandra Banorjoo 

II 

Ditto. 

10 

10 

Pinaki Nath Chatterjeo 

II 

Ditto. 

11 

11 

Debabrata Das Gupta 

... II 

Ditto. 

12 

12 

Narayan Kumar Majumdar 

II 

Ditto. 

13 

13 

A jit Kumar Ray Chuudhuri 

II 

Ditto. 

14 

16 

Shambhu Nath Son 

II 

Ditto. 

16 

27 

Shiba Narayon Mondal 

11 

R. K. Mission Shilpa Mandira, Bolur Math. 

16 

33 

Saumyondra Kumar Pal 

11 

Ditto. 

17 

34 

Samarondra Nath Dutta 

ir 

Ditto. 

18 

37 

Samir Kumar Das 

n 

Ditto. 

19 

38 

Pradip Kumar Ray 

ii 

Ditto. 

20 

40 

Apurba Chakrabarti 

ii 

Ditto. 

21 

42 

Dilip Kumar Ro\ 

ii 

Ditto. 

22 

46 

Sribas Chandra Ghosh 

n 

Ditto. 

23 

47 

Ja.N anta Kumar Bandy opad hay ay 

ii 

Ditto. 

24 

48 

Dhirondra Chandra Chakraborty 

ii 

I htto. 

25 

49 

Ashutosh Son 

ii 

DiUo. 

26 

50 

Amarondra Lai Sarkar ♦ 

ii 

Ditto. 

27 

61 

Mrinal Kanti Sarkar 

ii 

Ditto. 

28 

52 

Anif Chattrrjoo 

ii 

Ditto. 

29 

53 

Soamnath Chattopudhyay 

u 

Ditto. 

30 

57 

Sambhu Nath Boso . . 

ii 

Jhargram Polytechnic, Jhargram. 

31 

61 

Doba Prasad Maiti 

Tl 

Di 1 io. 

32 

62 

Prabir Kumar Dutta 

II 

Ditto. 

33 

64 

Sishu Ranjan Sahoo 

II 

Ditto. 

34 

65 

Deliendra Nath Bhuniya 

II 

Ditto. 

35 

72 

Surosh Chandra Doy Sarker 

II 

B. P. C. Institute of Technology, Krishnagar. 

36 

73 

Nirraal Kumar Gho h 

II 

Ditto. 

37 

76 

Ramendra Nath Chakrabarti 

II 

Ditto. 

38 

80 

Monoranjan Biswas 

II 

Ditto. 


12 . 


TI1K CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


[Part IB 


Serial 

No. 

Roll 

No. 

Name. 

Division 

or 

clans. 

Nan.r of the Institution. 

39 

84 

iiuni Kumar Chult .padhyuy 

11 

Purulia Polytechnic, Furulia. 

40 

85 

Supriya Gupta 

11 

Ditto. 

41 

86 

Ajit Kumar Dan 

11 

Ditto. 

4 1 

87 

Deljftbrutu Manor joo 

II 

Ditto. 

43 

90 

Anil Kumar Kundu 

11 

Ditto. 

41 

93 

Jahar Lai Gangopadhaya 

11 

Ditto. 

45 

101 

Subal Chandra Kuudu 

11 

Ditto. 

46 

114 

Subodh Kumar Saha 

II 

Murshidabad Institute of Technology, Berhampore 
(Murnhidabad). 

47 

118 

Santa Kumar Pradhun 

11 

Ditto. 

48 

121 

Sunil Kumar Biswas 

U 

Ditto. 

49 

125 

Kalyan Kumar Mukhorjeo 

II 

Ditto. 

r»o 

128 

Binav Kumar Hajari 

11 

K. G. Engineering Institute, Vishnupur. 

51 

130 

Sukumar Giri 

II 

Ditto. 

52 

132 

Manindra Nath Bari 

II 

Ditto. 

63 

133 

Santi Nath Chakrabortty 

II 

Ditto. 

54 

134 

A dh'uulu Bhusun * hattiTjen 

It 

Ditto. 

55 

138 

Dili Kumai 1 )m-» 

11 

Ditto. 

56 

13 ' 

Amak'inlu Mukho ‘odlivny 

11 

Ditto. 

67 

141 

Shyarmi Pro<nd Bhnttachnrvyn 

II 

Ditto. 

68 

145 

Sanknr Lai Ilapik 

II 

Ditto. 

59 

146 

Kiishmi Kauti Biswas 

T1 

Ditto. 

60 

147 

llirmidru Nat 1) Sant i a 

11 

Ditto. 

61 

149 

Sriiiibash Mitru 

11 

Ditto. 

62 

152 

Kauai Lai S» • n 

11 

Ditto. 

63 

154 

Dipti Prakas Pal 

11 

Ditto. 

64 

158 

Nit\a Rarijan < wuigopudhv ay .. 

11 

IIooghly Institute ol Technology, Rooghly. 

6 • 

159 

Dilip Kumai Mnjumdar 

11 

Dnto. 

6<> 

162 

Prabn Kuu.ir Bayehi 

II 

1 III In. 

67 

R3 

Mukul ( 'ini mpai'liyay 

11 

1 'it 1 o. 

68 

167 

Md. QuamruddiM 

11 

Ditto. 

69 

16s 

Aslns Kumar Sun Gupta 

1! 

Di( lo. 

70 

169 

Pimiundu ! >•* 

11 

Dil to. 

71 

171 

Prohlad Chandra aha 

11 

Ditto. 

72 

• 

172 

Dehutesh Ganguly . . 

11 

Ditto. 

73 

173 

Shyam Sundar Ghosh 

11 

DiMo. 

74 

174 

Samar Kr. Bnnerjeo 

11 

Ditto. 

75 

175 

Dibakar Chandra 

11 

Ditto. 

76 

178 

Tushar Kami Das 

IT 

Ditto. 

77 

179 

Mrinal Kn iti Sarknr 

ir 

Ditto. 

78 

180 

Nirmal Kumar Ghosh 

jj 

Ditto. 

79 

182 

Sankar Lai Roy 

li 

Ditto. 

80 

185 

Suaanta Guha 

ii 

Ditto. 


Part IB] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


I) 


Soria! 

No. 

Roll 

No. 

Name. 

Division 

or 

eluas. 

Name ol the Institution, 

81 

188 

Delias is h Bhattacharjee 

11 

Hooghly Institute of Technology, Hooghly. 

82 

191 

Dobidas Bandyopadhyay 

II 

Ditto. 

83 

194 

Haran Kumar Chaudhuri 

II 

Ditto. 

84 

198 

Bikas Kumar Basu 

II 

Ditto. 

85 

200 

Sisir Kumar Kundu 

11 

Ditto. 

86 

209 

Supriya Ghosh 

11 

Dit to. 

87 

212 

Panclianon Huldar . . 

11 

Ditto. 

88 

215 

Durgadas Chakravart.y 

u 

Ditto. 

89 

217 

Subhosh Chandra Mazumder 

n 

Ditto. 

90 

218 

Shyama Prasad Pramanick 

n 

Ditto. 

91 

245 

Md. Bias All Sircar 

n 

M. B. C. Institute of Engineering and Technology, 
Burdwan. 

92 

246 

Ranjan Kumar Mukhopadhyay 

n 

Ditto. 

93 

247 

Madan Mohan Sarkar 

ii 

Ditto. 

94 

248 

Giri Nath Moitra 

n 

Ditto. 

96 

251 

Sakti Kantha Madak 

ii 

Ditto. 

96 

252 

Sukuniar Ray 

n 

Ditto. 

97 

254 

Harendra Nath Sur 

IT 

Ditto. 

98 

256 

Nimai Chandra Bara 

II 

Ditto. 

99 

262 

Biswa Natl) Bundyopadhyay . . 

11 

Ditto. 

100 

277 

Asok Krishna 1 J ny .. 

II 

Jfllpaigun Polytechnic Institute. Jalpfiiguri. 

101 

285 

Subodh Chandra Kar 

11 

Ditto. 

102 

291 

Copal Chandra Barak 

II 

Ditto. 

103 

292 

Kalyan Kumar Ncogy 

11 

Ditto. 

104 

297 

Mukul Chandra Busuk 

II 

Pit to. 

105 

299 

Bikas Nandan Cliakrabarli 

II 

Pitto. 

106 

300 

Nnlini Jianjnu l)as . . 

II 

Ditto. 

107 

314 

Manas Sundar Mukhopadliyay . . 

11 

Pit to. 

108 

324 

Subal Kumar Biswas 

11 

Jadavpur Polytechnic, Calcutta *32. 

109 

326 

Djpok Kumor Mondal 

11 

Ditto. 

no 

330 

Susan t a Kumar Basil 

11 

Ditto. 

111 

348 

Sisir Kuiiiai Chosal 

11 

Ditto. 

112 

364 

Dobesh Chundra Chowdhury 

11 

Ditto. 

113 

365 

Pwurika Nath Chosal 

11 

Ditto. 

114 

372 

Santos h Kumar Datta 

II 

Ditto. 

115 

379 

Stikumar Mjtra. 

n 

Ditto. 

116 

383 

Said Kumar Chosh . . 

n 

Ditto. 

117 

389 

Ramc.sli (Sandra Kundu 

n 

Ditto. 

118 

396 

Sourcndra Narnyan Pas Gupta 

ii 

Ditto. 

119 

398 

Pobahratn Chosh 

ii 

Ditto. 

120 

401 

Barun Kumar Chosh 

jj 

Ditto. 

121 

406 

Bibhuti Blur- ha n Clmudhuri 

IT 

Ditto. 

122 

408 

Ilarinath Pas 

IX 

Ditto. 



14 


Til K CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


[Part IB 


Serial 

No. 

Roll 

No. 

Name, 

Division 

or 

class. 

Namo of the Institution. 

123 

409 

Auadi Prasad Mukhorjoe 

11 

Jadavpur Polytechnic, Calcutta-32. 

124 

411 

Bimul Kunti Dutta 

11 

Ditto. 

125 

412 

Bibckanandu Chuudhuri 

11 

Ditto. 

126 

414 

Dulal Chandra Chakrabarti 

11 

Ditto. 

127 

419 

Mrinal Kanti Mazumder 

11 

Ditto. 

128 

422 

Bidyut Kumar Bhattaeharyu . . 

11 

Ditto. 

129 

423 

A null Kumor Sen 

11 

Ditto. 

130 

17 

.lagadjs Chandra Saha 

. . Pass 

Sreo li. K. Silpa Vidyapith, Suri. 

131 

19 

Jnauada Prusannu Mukhorjee . . 

. . Pass 

Ditto. 

132 

20 

Prow an to Kumar Daw 

. . Pass 

Ditto. 

133 

21 

Ajit Kumar Roy 

. . Puhb 

Ditto. 

134 

22 

Abanti Bhadury 

Pass 

Ditto. 

135 

23 

Santa iinni < rlmsh 

Pass 

Ditto. 

136 

24 

Jashoda Nundari Dutta 

Pass 

Ditto. 

137 

25 

Sujit Kumar Nag 

. . Pass 

Ditto. 

138 

26 

Biswa Nath ( 'liat turaj 

. . Pass 

Ditto. 

139 

28 

Bijoy Kumar lie 

. . Pass 

R. K. Mission Shilpa Mandira, Belur Math 

140 

32 

Bidhan Kumar Chnkiahorty 

. . Pass 

Ditto. 

141 

35 

Nirmnl Kant i Deb Nath 

Pass 

Ditto. 

142 

39 

Mi nml Chandia Das 

Pass 

Ditto. 

143 

41 

Ajit Xnraynn Jv>ir . . 

. . Pass 

Ditto. 

144 

43 

Suhodh Chandra Saha Bo> 

Pass 

Ditto. 

145 

44 

Man mdia Kumai Das 

Pass 

Ditto. 

146 

45 

Biswa. Natli Chuttopmlhuyny 

. . Tnss 

Ihtto. 

147 

54 

Subha, di Kumar Boy 

Pass 

.Ihargrnm Polytechnic, Jhargram. 

148 

55 

Dilip Kumai Clmkraborly 

Pass 

Ditto. 

149 

56 

Buddha Dev A id i . . 

Pass 

Ditto. 

150 

58 

Amal Kumar < Bioidi 

Pass 

Ditto. 

151 

68 

Molnt Kumai Paliai i 

Pass 

Ditto. 

152 

6!) 

Tamil K a 1 1 < t Band) opadli) uy .. 

. . Pass 

Ditto. 

153 

71 

Naravan Chandra Malmpntin 

Pass 

Ditto. 

154 

S3 

Lakslimi Naia\«m Boy 

Pass 

B. P. C. Institute of Technology. 

155 

117 

Subrat a Kumar (Mia, krabarti 

. . Puss 

Murshidabad Institute of Technology. 

156 

120 

Rubindru Natli Ghosh 

Pass 

Ditto. 

157 

122 

A mntendu Karkar 

Pass 

Ditto. 

158 # 

123 

Dilip Kumai- Bore 

Pass 

Ditto. 

159 

1 29 

Ram Sunder Chat terjeo 

Pass 

K. G. Engineering Institute, Vishnupur. 

160 

131 

Balaram Nandi 

Pass 

Ditto. 

161 

135 

Samarendrn Nath lvumlu 

Fuss 

Ditto. 

162 

142 

Mntyunjoy Nag 

Pass 

Ditto. 

163 

143 

Tavapada Chat tnpadhyny 

. . Pass 

Ditto. 

4 164 

148 

RiMiupmla Mukheijee 

Puss 

Ditto. 

165 

153 

Gobmda Das Shounda 

Pass 

Ditto. 

166 

1 55 

Shumhhn Nath Bnski 

, . Pass 

Ditto. 

167 

156 

Niue' tn Prasat’ MuMiopndhyay 

Pass 

Ilooghly Institute of Technology. 

168 

157 

Sujit. Kum.ir I'm.mi .. 

Pa. . 

Ditto 


PiBT IB] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


15 


Serial 

No. 

Roll 

No. 

Name. 



Division 

or 

class. 

Name of the Institution. 

169 

161 

Dilip Kumar Ghosh 

•• 


Pass 

Hooghly Institute of Technology. 

170 

204 

Amrit Kumar Chakrabarty 


• • 

Pass 

Ditto. 

171 

213 

Mrinal Kanti Banerji 



Puss 

Ditto. 

172 

226 

Ranondra Nath Kundu 



Pass 

Ditto. 

173 

231 

Satyanarayan Bari . . 



Pass 

M. B.C. Institute of Engineering und Teclmglogy. 

174 

232 

Murari Mohan Sen Gupta 



Pass 

Ditto. 

175 

233 

Prithwish Chandra Tarafder 



Pass 

Ditto. 

176 

234 

Manas Hoy Choudhury 



Pass 

Ditto. 

177 

235 

Anil Kumar Chaudhuri 



Pass 

Dit to. 

178 

236 

Manik Lai Ghosh 



Push 

Ditto. 

179 

239 

Basudeb G os warn i . . 



Pass 

Ditto. 

180 

240 

• 

Dcbabrata Hazra 


• . 

Phhh 

Ditto. 

181 

241 

Parinml Kanti Nandi 



Pass 

Ditto. 

182 

242 

Somes Chandra Ray 



Pass 

Ditto. 

183 

276 

Ajit Kumar Bhattaeharya 



Pass 

Julpuiguri Polytechnic Institute. 

184 

279 

Purnondu Bikash Mitra 



Posh 

Ditto. 

185 

282 

Ajit Ranjan Dey 



Pass 

Ditto. 

186 

284 

Ashutosh Paul 



Pass 

D-tio. 

187 

287 

Md. Nurul A lam 



Push 

Ditto. 

188 

295 

Mihir Kumar Sarkar 



Pass 

Ditto. 

189 

306 

Prodyot Kumar Dutta 



Pass 

Ditto. 

190 

313 

Hirendra Sankar Roy 



Foss 

Ditto. 

191 

318 

Sanat Kumar Sen . . 



Toss 

Jadavpur Polytechnic. 

192 

320 

Sadhan Chandra Dutta 



Pass 

Ditto. 

193 

322 

Dipak Kumar Bhadra 



Pass 

Ditto. 

194 

323 

Dilip Kumar Jana . . 



Pass 

Ditto. 

196 

329 

Amalendu Majumdar 



Puss 

Ditto. 

196 

334 

Amrita Kumar Majumdar 



Pass 

Ditto. 

197 

341 

Biman Bohari Chakravarty 



Pass 

Ditto. 

198 

349 

Priyabrata Son Gupta 



Pass 

Ditto. 

199 

368 

Rash Behari Dalai . . 



Pass 

Ditto. 

200 

392 

Prafulla Ranjan Chowdhury 



Pass 

Ditto. 

201 

393 

Samir Kumar Bandyopadhyay 



Pass 

Ditto. 

202 

394 

Sudarshan Kumar Sawhney 



Pass 

Ditto. 

203 

400 

Ram Dulal Bakshi . . 



Pass 

Ditto. 

204 

410 

Nirmalendu Nag 



Pass 

Ditto. 

205 

413 

Madan Mohan Das . . 



Pass 

Ditto. 

206 

424 

Dilip Kumar Dev . . 



Pass 

Ditto. 

207 

425 

Sajalondu Bikash Dutta 


. . 

Pass 

Ditto. 

208 

436 

Brindaban Chandra Mondal 



Pass 

Ditto. 

209 

439 

Debabrata Chakrabarti 



Pass 

Ditto. 

210 

447 

Arabinda Mazumdar 



Pass 

Ditto. 

A. C. SEN, Sony., 

State Council for Engineering and Technical Education, 
West Bengal. 


1G 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


[Part IB 


STATE COUNCIL FOR ENOINEERINQ AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION, WEST BENOAL. 

Dated the 17th March 1961. 

The following candidates are declared to have passed the Licentiate Examination in Mechanical Engineering held in Decomber 1960. 


Serial 

No. 

Koll Name. 

No. 

Division Name of the Institution, 

or 

class. 

1 

23 Monomohan Mukherjeo 

I 

Hooghly Institute of Technology. 

2 

29 Chitta Ranjan Chakravorty 

I 

Ditto. 

3 

2 Dibyendu Mukhopadhyay 

II 

R. K. Mission Rhilpa Mandira, Belur Math. 

4 

3 Rantosh Kumar Mukhorji 

II 

Ditto. 

6 

6 Railaja Kanta Mukhopadhyay a 

II 

Ditto. 

6 

14 Samarendu Bikas Das 

II 

K. G. Engineering Institute, Vishnupur. . 

7 

18 Salil Kumar Das 

II 

Hooghly Institute of Technology. 

8 

24 Dhirondra Nath Ray 

II 

Ditto. 

9 

36 Arun Kumar Cliakraborty 

IT 

B. P. C. Institute of Technology, Krishnagar. 

10 

38 Tapan Chatterjee 

II 

Ditto. 

11 

60 Rajaram Roy Choudliury 

II 

Jadavpur Polytechnic. 

12 

63 Ashit Kumar Mazumder 

ir 

Ditto. 

13 

64 Ramendra Nath Bhattacharjee 

ii 

Ditto. 

14 

1 Biswa Fradip Ren Gupta 

Pass 

R. K. Mission Rhilpa Mandira, Belur'Math. 

ir> 

4 Uday Rankar Bandy opadhyay . . 

Pass 

Ditto. 

16 

13 Manotosh Rasmal 

Pass 

K. G. Engineering Institute, Vishnupur. 

17 

16 ABhish Kumar Kar 

Pass 

Ditto. 

18 

17 Tapan Chandra Ghose 

Push 

Hooghly Institute of Technology. 

19 

26 Soumen Prusanna Mukhopadhyay 

Push 

Ditto. 

20 

37 Rhyama Prosad Rarkar 

Push 

B. P. C. Institute of Technology, Krishnagar. 

21 

39 Gopinatli Mukherjeo 

Pass 

Ditto. 

B 

22 

40 Puritnsh Kumar Chakrabarti 

Pass 

M.B.C. Institute of Engineering and Technology, Burdwan. 

23 

41 Kalidas Chakravorty 

Pass 

Ditto. 

24 

43 Ashoko Kumar Dutt 

Pass 

Ditto. 

26 

61 Bhaskur Mookherjeo 

Pass 

Jadavpur Polytechnic. 

2d 

62 Subodh Kumar Do 

Pass 

Ditto. 

A. C. SEN, Secy., 

State Council for Engineering and Technical Education, 
West Bengal. 




J>ABT IB] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


17 


STATE COUNCIL FOR ENOINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION, WE8T BENGAL. 

Dated the 17th March 1961. 

The following oandidatos arc declared to have paused tho Licentiate Examinut ion in Electrical Engineering held in December 1960. 


-verial 

Boll 

Name. 

Division 

Name of the Institution. 

No. 

No. 


or 





class. 


1 

4 

Bohit Kumar Muity 

rr 

Hoogh ly Institute of TechnoIo;!\ . 

2 

6 

Gour Naray&n Chakravurty 

n 

Ditto. 

3 

7 

Durga Gobinda Choudliuri 

TI 

B. P. C. Institute of Technology. Krishnngnr. 

4 

9 

Sujit Kumar Pandit 

IT 

Ditto. 

5 

10 

Amalendu Chakraborty 

II 

Ditto. 

6 

12 

Amitava Amarendra Das 

TT 

H. K. Mission Khilpn Mandira, Bolur Math. 

7 

18 

Lakshmi Narayan Das Gupta 

TT 

M.B.C. Institute of Engineering and Technology, Burdwun. 

8 

20 

Gadadliar Hati 

TI 

Ditto. 

9 

23 

Ajit Kumar Baksliit 

II 

Ditto. 

10 

11 

Samir Kumar Neogi 

Pass 

B. K. Mission Shilpu Mandira, Helm* Math. 

11 

13 

Kamal Kumar Chakrabarti 

. . Pass 

M.B.O. Institule of Engineering and Technology, Burdwun. 

12 

14 

Nitai Chandra Mandal 

Pass 

Ditto. 

13 

16 

Kali Shankar Mukherjee 

Pass 

Ditto. 

14 

16 

Sankar Prasad Pal 

Pass 

Ditto. 

16 

17 

Ram Krishna Gupta 

Pass 

Ditto. 

16 

41 

Nitai Chandra Moitra 

Pass 

Jadavpur Polytechnic. 


A. C. SEX, Sony., 

State Council for Engineering and Technical Education, 
West Bengal. 


STATE COUNCIL FOR ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION, WEST BENGAL. 

Dated the 17th March 1961. 

Tho following candidates aro declared to have paHsed tho Draughtsmanship Examination held in December 1 990. 


oriftl 

No. 

Boll 

No. 

Name. 

Division 

or 

class. 

Name of the Inst itution. 

1 

2 

Byasdeb Ghosh 

. . Pass 

K. G. Engineering Institute, Vishnupur. 

2 

4 

Bebati Baman De . . 

Pass 

Ditto. 

3 

6 

Salil Bhushan Sarkar 

Pass 

Ditto. 


18 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


[Part IB 


No. 

P.oll 

No. Name. 

Division 

or 

class. 

4 

6 Salya Nuruyan Goswumi 

Pass 

5 

9 Ahatii Kanta C'hattopadhyay 

Pass 

6 

11 A.j it Banjuii Sircar .. 

Pass 

7 

18 Rupendra Kumar Sinha 

Pass 

S 

21 Madan Mohan Ghosh 

. . Pass 

9 

22 Shumbhu Nath De 

. . Pass 

10 

2i> Sh it al Chandra Dus 

Pass 

11 

29 Seikh Abdul Ohub 

Pass 

12 

37 Ganapati Dus Ghosh 

Pass 

13 

38 Ajit Kumar Guha 

Pass 

14 

42 Indrajit Bliadra, 

Pass 


Name of the Institution. 

K. G. Engineering Institute, Vishnupur. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

B. P. 0. Institute of Technology, Krishnagar. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Jalpaiguri Polytechnic Institute, Jalpaiguri. 

M.B.C. Institute of Engineering and Technology, Burdwan. 
.Iftdavpur Polytechnic. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

A. C. SEN, Secy., 

State Council for Engineering and Technical Education, 
West Bengal. 



Part EB] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


BOARD OF APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING, WEST BENGAL 

RmuHs of tht Final Examination of the Mechanical Trade Apprenticoc Couree hold In July ltd. 

Roll Order of Names of Candidates. Workshop attached to 

No. Merit 

First Claes 


38 

1 

Panohannn Das 

63 

\ . 

Kartiok Chandra Mondal 

86 

j 

Puma Chandra Karma kar 

3 

} 4 

Sanat Kumar Mu Hick 

87 

/ 

Bishudhanandn Mondul 

117 

6 

Sant Kumar Ghatak . . 

110 

7 

Sunil Chatterjee 

01 

8 

Nirendra Nath Sarker 

67 

9 

Rafijit Singh Axad 

169 

10 

Pranab Basil 

02 


Hirendra Kumar Gupta 

124 . 

Pradip Kumar Roy 

109 

13 

Narendrn Chandra Sur 

6 1 

I 

y u 

Rajendra Nath Glioshal 

76 

f 

Nariudra Kumar Mahnjiiu 

174 

16 

Arun Kumar Ghosh 

120 

17 

Dipak Ran j an Sen 

127 1 

l 18 

Mriryd Kanti Baau 

161 J 

1 

Suresh Chandra Dutta 

144 

[- 20 

Parosh Kurnar Cliowdhury 

147 J 


Kalyan K. Bliattacharyya 

48 

22 

Amur Nath Banorjee . . 

32 " 

y 23 

Sasanka Sekhar Roy . . 

78 

1 

(lorn Chand Kanrar 

156 J 

1 

Uriah ik<*sh Ghosh 

123 1 

L 26 

Malay Molion Mazumdor 

146 J 

r 

Dulal Chandra Sen 

93 

28 

Subol Chandra Siriha . . 

60 

29 

Mrity unjoy Cbukral >orty 

133 

30 

Brahmanaiida Ganguly 

84 1 
j 

► 31 

Dilip Kumar Basu 

169 ( 

t 


Tripti Nath Mukherjee 

176 J 


Shib Pada Naskar 

23 *| 


Hirendra Kumar Das 

106 y 

34 

Prabhas Kumar Bose 

116 J 


Sasanka Sekbnr Majumdar 

*} 

37 

Tapan Kumar Ganguly 

170 J 


Dulal Chandra Mukherjee 


Pass. 

. . Eastern Railway Workshop. 

Metal Box Co. of India Ltd. 

G uost, Keen, Williams Ltd. 

National Carbon Co. Ltd. 

Howrah Loco, Eastern Railway. 

Eastern Railway Workshop, Kanohra- 
para. 

.. K. P. A. E. Rly. 

National Instruments Ltd. 

Metal Box Co. of India Ltd. 

Saxby A Farmer (Ind.) Ltd. 

- Cl. T. R. Co. Pvt. Ltd. 

Eastern Railway Workshop, Kanclira- 
para. 

Locomotive Workshop, K. P. A, E. Rly. 

Eastern Railway, Liluah. 

C. & W. Workshop, Eastern Railway. 

Saxby A Farmer (Ind.) Ltd. 

Eastern Railway Workshop, Kanohra- 
para. 

Ditto. 

Saxby & Farmer (Ind.) Ltd. 

. . Titaghur Paper Mills Ltd. 

. . JoHsop &. Co. Ltd. 

Ditto. 

East Bengal Engg. Works. • 

Metal Box Co. of India Ltd. 

Saxby A Farmer (Ind) Ltd. 

Eastern Railway Workshop, Kanchra- 
para. 

Fort William Co. Ltd. 

Orient Ooneral Industries Ltd. 

Saxby A Farmer (Ind) Ltd. 

Gondalpara Jute Mills. 

Eastern Railway Workshop, Liluah. 

. . Saxby & Farmer (Ind) Ltd. 

. . Ditto. 

Hindusthan Lever Ltd. 

Locomotive Workshop, K.P.A.E.RIy. 

Eastern Railway Workshop, Kanehra- 
para. 

C & W Workshop, Eastern Railway, 
Liluah. 

. . Saxby A Fanner (Ind) Ltd, . ' 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 19 62 


(Pakt IB 


Roll Order of 
No. Merit 

Names of Candidates. 

72 1 

173 J 

» 

Amiya Bikas Das 

8. Abdus Sobhan 

0 

41 

Ganosh Chandra Bose 

168 

42 

Asit Kumar Das 

1 

43 

Sunil Kumar Chowdhury 

7 

44 

BimAl Kumar Ghosh 

27 ' 

148 

46 

Awadh Bihari Ram 

Birondra Nath Dus 

168 

► 

Japan Kumar Sen Gupta 

162 


Gnnfcpati Nandi 


8«cond Class 


122 


I 

Arno Chansra Roy 

119 *] 

\ 

2 

Ajit Kumar Das 

136 J 

l 


Rama Sunkar Sukla 

14 ' 



Kaiidas Ghatak 

83 


4 

Bnluram Chatterjee 

m - 



Krishna Karraakar 

112 J 



Bhola Nath Mondal ■ ■ 

61 " 



Nani Gopal Dutta 

98 ; 

► 

8 

Samir Banorjoe 

166 J 



Mritunjoy Das 

77 " 


* 

Gobinda Chandra Saha 

90 

► 

11 

Dehabratn C^haki 

162 



Bhabatosli Nandy 

166 J 



Dipak Kumar Banorjoe 

17 " 



Sahadeva Kumar Jatty 

33 

i 


18 

Arun KriHhjnu Talukdar 

76 1 



Bocharam Adak 

1 

80 J 



Biswa Ketu Mondal 

41 ' 



Sheopujan Gupta 

ue 

► 

19 

Kamala Charon Das • • 

1S8 



Aloko Ktimur Bose 

153 J 



Kamal Kumar Bose . . 

44] 

L 

23 

Bibhuti Bhuaan Chakraborty 

163 J 

i 


Thrak Natb Thnkdr . . 

10 1 



Jagabandbu Duh 

' 

49 ] 

i 

► 

26 

Samir Kumar Sarkar . . 

149 



Asit Kumar Ballav 

160 , 

► 

i 


Sukumar Banerjee 


Workshop efttfclhed to 

B. B. J. Consnt. 

Saxby & Farmer (Ind) Ltd, 

Jay Engineering Works. 

Saxby & Fanner (Ind) Ltd. 

Benani Metal Works Ltd. 

Eastern Railway, Liluah. 

Ditto. 

Jeasop & Co. Ltd. 

Saxby & Farmer (Ind) Ltd. 

Ditto. 

Pass 

Eastern Railway Workshop, Kaaohva- 
para. 

Ditto. 

New Contral Jute Milta (Albion). 

. . South Eastern Railway Workshop, 
Kharagpore. 

Eastern Railway Workshop, Liluah. 

Metal Box. Co. of India Ltd. 

Locomotive Workshop, K. P. A. E. 
Rly. 

. . Jay Engineering Works. 

Metal Box Co* of India Ltd. 

Saxby A Farmer (Ind) Ltd. 

Metal Box Co. of Tndia Ltd. 

West. Bengal State Transport, Belghoria 
Depot. 

Stewarts & Lloyds of India Ltd. 

Saxby & Farmer India Ltd. 

Eastern Railway Liluah. 

. . East Bongul Engineering Works. 

. . C & W. Workshop, Eastern Railway, 

Bhartia Electric Steol Co. Ltd. 

. . Eastern Railway Workshop, Lillooah, 

Eastern Railway Workshop, Kanohra* 
para. 

Metal Box Co. of India Ltd. 

Saxby A Farmer (Ind) Ltd. 

. . Jossop A Co. Ltd. 

. . Saxby A Farmer (Ind) Ltd. 

General Elec. Co. of India (ttfg.) 
Private Ltd. 

Saxby A Farmer (Lid) Ltd. 

Jessop A Co. Ltd. 

• • Saxby A Farmer (Ind,) Ltd. 


Fast IB] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


21 



Roll Order of Names of Candidates. Workshop Attached to 

No. Merit* 


58 

151 

154 

8 

11 

47 

65 

111 


2 

79 
100 
113 
176 
81 

137 V 
179 
104 
171 
18 
45 
19 
57 


} 

} 

} 


54 1 

66 V 
86 

128 _ 


20 1 

177 V 

182 J 

29 

25 

11 } 
167 J 

140 

36 

99 

102 

73 



180 


29 


32 


37 


42 


46 

47 

49 


51 


55 


58 

59 


60 

62 

63 

64 

65 

66 

67 

69 


Noinai Chund Dutta 
Aquil Ahmed Khan 
Siba Prasad OoHWami 
AdRy Kumar Paul 
Dilip Kumar Sinlia 
Broja Lai Das 
Sliukdoo Singh 
Khttgon Mookhorjeo 

Md. Israil 

Kamakhya Ranjan Mukherjee 

Nalini Ranjan Das 

Ajit Kumar Chukrabartte 

Suranjan Nuskur 

Copal Prasad Shaw 

Kamal Kumar GIiohIi 

Dob Prasad Motilul 

Cliandidas Mukliopadhyay 

Arun Kumar Roy 

Suhash Chandra Karar 

Nani Gopal Das 

Sunil Kumar Karar 

K. M. Kriahnamurtliy 

Parosh Chandra. Biswas 

Hira Singh 

Rasim Kumar Chakruborty 
Malmbir Sliarma 

Bhabani Ghosh 
Buni Prasad Mukherjee 
Kartick Chandra Mai lick 
Muhammad M ana war Khan 
Kumud Ranjan Mondal 
Arun Kumar Mill lick 
Nimai Chand Dhb 
S anat- Kumar Bhattochcrjoo 
Santosh Kumar Dattu 
Rahimulla Khan 
Kartar Singh Matharu 
Dhrubo Hup Mtikhurjeo 
Asok Ranjan Ray 
Ian D’ Cruz. 

Tarini Chandra Karmakar 


C. A W. Workshop, Eastern Railway. 
Stool A Allied Products Ltd. 

Saxby A Farmer (Ind.) Ltd. 

Kilbum A Co. (P) Ltd. 

Ludlow Jute Mills. 

Jossop & Co. Ltd. 

National Carbon Co. India Private Ltd. 

Locomotive Workshop, K. P. A. f E. 

Rly. 

Brail hwaite A Co. India Ltd. 

Bhartia Electric Steel Co. Ltd. 

Metal Box Co. of India Ltd. 

Locomotive Workshop, K.P.A., E. Rly. 

Saxby A Farmor (lnd.) Ltd. 

Britannia Engineering Co. Ltd. 

Metal Box Co. of India Ltd. 

Saxby A Farmor (Ind.) Ltd. 

K. P. A. Workshop (C. A W.), K. Rly. 

Saxby A Farmor (lnd.) Ltd. 

National Iron & Stool Co. Ltd. 

.lossop A Co. Ltd. 

Eastern Railway, Liluah. 

B. B. J. (Construction Co. Ltd. 

The Calcutta Iron A Stool Non-Kerous 
Metal Works. 

National Carbon Co. (I) P. Ltd. 

Guest, Keen, Williams Ltd. 

Eastern Railway Workshop, Kunchra- 
para. 

Eastern Railway, Liluah. 

Saxby A Farmer (lnd.) Ltd. 

Ditto. 

B. B. J. Constn. Co. Ltd. 

Port Engineering Works. 

C. Cornells A Sons Ltd. 

Saxby A Farmer (lnd.) Ltd. 
irindusthan Electric Co. Ltd. 

Burn A Co. Ltd. 

Metal Box A Co. of India Ltd. 

Garden Reach Woikshop Ltd. 
llinduHthan Motors Co. Ltd. 

Eastorn Railway, Liluah. 

The Metal Box Co. of Ind. Ltd. 

Saxby A Farmor (Ind.) Ltd. 


22 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


[Part IB 


Roll 

Order of 

Names of Candidates. 

No. 

Merit. 


74 1 

► 70 

Bertram Robeiro 

114 J 


Sunil Kumar Dub 

96 ] 

l 72 

Netai Chandra Soor . . 

101 J 

1 

Murari Mohon Doy 

172 

74 

Kiran Sankar Sarkar 

28 

75 

Pravat Ranjan Noogi 

105 

76 

Santanu Cob warn i 

64 

77 

Barun Ranjan Son Cupta 


Workshop attached to 

Calcutta Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. 

Locomotive Workshop, K. P- A., 
Eastern Rly. 

B . Sur & Co, 

Central Workshop, Caloutta State 
Transport. 

Saxby & Farmer (Ind.) Ltd. 

Textile Machinery Corporation Ltd. 

K. P. A. Workshop (C. & W.), Eastern 
Railway. 

National Carbon Co. India Private Ltd. 


N. B , — Other candidates, whoso names do not appoar in the list have failed. 


P. K. SEN, Seoy. 


a 


NOT 10 K 


No. 12041).-- I Hili September 
the Certificate Course in A^r 
Slate Schools of Agriculture 
serially in order of merit: 


IJMi 

1 ura 


l'|„. following students have passed 
I'Aaininalioa held in JfHilMil from the 


t < hinxnr.ih and (Wli Heliar and are placed 


CERTIFICATE COURSE IN AGRICULTURE EXAMINATION RESULTS 

( 1960 - 61 ) 


Serial Roll No. 
No. 

. CH 81 
. CH 12 
CB 15 

3. CB 41 

4 . CB 5 

5. CH 7 
8. CB 71 

7. on 30 

CB 34 

8. CB 48 

9. CB 72 


Name m order ol merit with total number. 

first division. 

Shri Sakti Banerjoo, 822. 

Shn Sushi 1 K. Doogharia, 817. 

Shri Pradip K. Guha, 817 
Shri Monoj K. Bhowmiok, 810. 

Shri Monoj K. Das, 814. 

Shri Mahndev Kundu, 81 1. 

Sliri Haripada Pradhan, 600. 

Shri Achinta K. DftR, 605. 

Shri Dptalondu Mondai, 605. 

Shn Copal Ch. Roy, 803. 

Shn Kedar Ch. Maity, 802. 


SECOND DIVISION. 


10. 

CB 

29 




CH 

66 



11 

CH 

20 



12. 

CH 

10 




CB 

55 


•• 

13. 

CB 

02 


# 

14. 

CP 

67 


•• 

16 . 

C'H fci8 




Sliri Rabindm Nath Sarkar, 598. 
Shri Atm'ini Kumar Das, 598. 

Shri Nirapada Sarkar, 596. 

Sliri Kartick Ch. Kundu, 595. 
Shri Ajanta Kumar Roy, 595. 
Shri Abdul Razzack, 503. 

Shri Nirtnal Krishna Pandit, 592. 
Shri Salil K. Das Gupta, 590. 


Past IB] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


Serial 

No. 

Roll No. 



iVimt* m order ot merit with total number. 

16. 

CB 

19 



Shri Manindra M. Bhowtnick, 589. 


CB 

23 



Shri Abdur Roll man. 689. 

17. 

CB 

10 



Shri Parfrnal Roy, 588. 

18. 

CH 

35 



Shri Ookul Krishna Manna, 587. 


CB 

38 



Shri Bhupondra Nath Sarkar, 587. 


CB 

42 



Shri Gitosh Rnnjan Son, 587. 

19. 

CH 

21 

• i 


Shri Lakshiran Ch. Haider, 586. 


CB 

75 

• • 


Shri Asim Kumar Mitra, 586. 

20. 

CH 

31 



Shri Probliat Kumar Manna, 584. 


CII 

38 



Shri Durgenh Ch. Bhattaohftryya, 584. 


CB 

4 



Shri Ashimuddin Alimod, 684. 

21. 

CB 

20 



Shri Parimal Chandra Son, 683. 

22. 

CH 

76 



Shri Kmimd Bandhab Mandal, 582. 


CB 

28 



Shri Saradindu Datta, 582. 

23. 

CH 

68 



Shri Anil Kumar Mondal, 582. 


CB 

2 

•• 


Shri Jagamiath Hey, 582. 

24. 

CB 

1 

• • 


Shri Narayan Ch. Dhar, 580. 

2 5. 

CII 

75 

• • 


Shri Anil K. Santra, 579. 

26. 

CB 

50 

• • 


Shri Nirmalendu Clioudhury, 578. 

27. 

CB 

44 



Shri Basudev Basak, 577. 

28. 

CB 

36 



Shri Dharani K. Biswas, 576. 

29. 

CB 

40 

•• 


Shri Hhurjati Nag, 575. 

30. 

CB 

74 



Shri Syed Abdul Monazom, 74. 

31. 

CH 

32 

• • 


Sliri Amitava Jana, 573. 


CB 

53 

• • 


Shri Sailes Chandra Kar, 573. 


CB 

58 

• • 


Shri Cliaitanya K. Malakar, 573. 

32. 

CH 

1 

•• 


Shri Sudhansu Sarkar, 572. 

33. 

CH 

24 

•• 


Shri Santi Rain Sarkar, 571. 


CH 

37 

•• 


Shri Manindra Nath Das, 571. 


CB 

65 

•* 


Shri Ran jit Prosad Roy, 571. 

34. 

CH 

34 



Shri Sarat Ch. Maity, 570. 


CB 

14 



Shri Akbil Rnnjan Bhadra, 570. 

35. 

CH 

6 

•• 


Shri Badal Kumar Makar, 569. 


CH 

48 

•• 


Shri Glinnasyam Kundu, 569. 


CB 

47 

•• 


Shri Nuhuddiu Biswas, 569. 


CB 

78 

•• 


Shri Anil Kumar l)utta, 569. 

36. 

CB 

79 

•• 


Shri Jagadisli Chundra Kar, 568. 

37. 

CH 

66 

•• 


Shri Gobardhan Kar, 567. 


CB 

8 

•• 


Shri Phanindra Mohan Bhowmik, 567. 

38. 

CH 

63 

• • 


Shri Balai Chandra Roy, 666. 

39. 

CH 

74 

•• 


Shri Haripoda Dbara, 566. 

40. 

CB 

64 

•• 


Shri Chittaranjan Roy, 564. 

41. 

CB 

6 

. . 


Shri Ganjabir Giri, 663. 


34 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


(Pakt IB 


Serial 

Roll No. 

Name in order of merit with total number. 

No. 



42. 

CB 61 

. . Shri Amiya Kr. Rarknr, 562. 


CB 69 

Skri Bikaah Chandra Das, 662. 

43. 

CH 4 

Shri Satya Ch. Sardar, 560. 


OH 13 

. . Shri Salil Kumar Maity, 660. 


CH 16 

Shri Kalyani Pruned Ghoaal, 660. 


CB 30 

Shri Nirmal Ch.Dobnath, 560. 

44. 

CB 21 

. . Shri Prangour Ohakrabartty, 669. 

45. 

CH 47 

. . Shri Nil Mohan Karar, 558. 


OH C>2 

Shri Saaonka Sokhar Bora, 568. 


CB 54 

. . Shri Babu Ham Pradhan, 658. 

46. 

CH 8 

. . Shri SuBil K. Biswas, 556. 

' 47. 

CTJ 08 

. . Shn Sudhansu Sokhar, 555. 


CB 70 

Shri Asoko K. Houth, 556. 

48. 

CB 33 

Shri Bhupal Krislma Ghosh, 554. 


CB 67 

Shri Aswini K. Ghosh, 654. 


CB 80 

. . Shri Glumasyam Doy, 554. 

49. 

CH 69 

Shri BHdal Ki. Khatua, 552. 

50. 

C H 36 

. . Shri Biboka Nanda Das, 651. 


CH 51 

Shri Mrinal Kuiiti Maity, 661. 


CH 77 

.. Shri Tapan Kumar Majumdar, 661. 


CB 43 

. . Shri Sunil Kumar Tapadar, 551. 


CB 73 

Shri Nirmal Ch. Cliakrabarty, 551. 

51. 

CH 22 

. . Shri Kalipada Choudhury, 560. 


CII 73 

Shri Anil Baran Ghosli, 550. 

52. 

CB 63 

. . Shri Kahudiram Bihwrb, 649. 

53. 

CII 20 

. . Shri Md. Asnpr Ali, 648. 


CH 79 

Shri Md. Nurul Islam, 548. 


CB 37 

. . Shri A run Kumar Ganguli, 548. 

54. 

CB 7 

Shri Nopul Kuiiti Kar, 647. 


CB 48 

Shri Amur Aparwala, 647. 

65. 

CH 29 

Shri Basudev Ghosh, 546. 


CH 54 

Shri Sana! Kumni (lliosli, 646. 


CB 35 

Shri Suroali Ch. Pandit, 546. 

66. 

CH 53 

. . Shri Md. Abdul Wadul VVadud, 646. 


CB 16 

. . Shri Sankar Prosad Culm, 546. 

57. 

CH 11 

Shri Purnendu Manna, 644. 


CH 49 

. . Shri Anil Baran Dhauk, 544. 


CB 32 

. . Shri Nirmal Kanti Doh, 544. 

58. 

CH 14 

. , Shri Md. Azibar Kahnmn, 543. 

59. 

CH 27 

. . Shri Jnanendru Nath Bora, 642. 


Past IB) 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


25 


Serial 

No. 

Roll No. 



Name in order of meirt with total number* 

60. 

OB 

26 



Shri Santi Shokhar Bhoduri, 541. 


CB 

31 



Shri Asutosh Choudhuri, 541. 


CB 

60 



Shri Bhadu Lai Haldor, 541. 


OB 

68 



Shri Laskhmi Kanta Bhuvia, 541. 


CB 

76 



Shrt Jitondra Nath Paul, 541. 


CH 

3 



Shri Nahni Mohan Biswas, 541. 

61. 

OH 

17 



Shri Doraodar Mondal, 540. 


CH 

28 



Shri Provaajan Mondal, 540. 


CB 

52 



Shri Dinesh Ch. Sarkar, 540. 

62. 

CB 

13 



Shri Tarak Brahma Sarker, 539. 


CB 

77 



Shri Adhar Kanti Kar, 539. 

63. 

CH 

44 



Shri Deb Katun Mukhorjoo, 538. 

64. 

CH 

25 



Shri Nanda Kishoro Chatterjee, 637. 


CH 

56 



Shri Nibaran Ch. Dobnatli, 537. 


CB 

17 



Shri Pijus Kanti Datta, 537. 

65. 

CB 

51 



Shri Probhath Kumar Karmakar, 530. 


CB 

59 



Shri Birendra Kumar Paul, 630. 

66. 

CB 

9 



Shri Md. Farqan All, 534. 

67. 

CB 

11 



Shri Paresli Ch. Bhadra, 532. 

68. 

CH 

2 



Shri Isha Bmod Das, 530. 


CH 

71 



Shri Prahlad Cli. Bora, 530. 

69. 

CH 

39 



Shri Bidhu Bhusan .Jana, 528. 


CB 

49 



Shri BhobotOHh Majumdar, 528. 

70. 

CH 

62 



Shri Kanan Krishna Kundu, 627. 


CB 

22 



Shn Nani Copal Paul, 527. 


CB 

25 



Shri Priyanath Ghosh, 527. 

71. 

CB 

27 



Shri Sukharanjan Bhadra, 526. 

72. 

CB 

3 



Shri Bhakti Bhusan Mondal, 525. 

73. 

CH 

43 



Shri Subhas Ch. Choudhuri, 624. 

74. 

CH 

59 



Shri Sisir Kanti Cuba, 522. 


CB 

60 



Shri Manondra Nath Banerjeo, 522. 

75. 

CB 

24 



Shri Anil Ch. Sen, 521. 

70. 

CH 

72 



Shn Kartick Ch. Paul, 51 0, 

77. 

CH 

9 



Shri Satya Kumar Paul, 518. 


CH 

57 



Shri Hari Mohan Boy, 518. 


CB 

12 



Shri Homondra Ch. Dob, 518. 

78. 

CH 

45 



Shri Jagamiath Sur, 517. 

79. 

CH 

5 



Shri Biuoy Ranjan Paul, 516. 


CH 

23 



Shri Nihar Kanti Roy, 516. 

80. 

CH 

18 



Shri Sahadev Ghosh, 514. 

81. 

CH 

61 



Shri Md. Mazammel Haque, 512. 


CB 

45 

• • 

• • 

Shri Nikhileswar Roy, 512. 

82. 

CH 

55 

, . 


Shri Sachindra Nath Ghosh, 611. 


26 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 4, 1962 


[Part IB 


Serial Roll No. 

- . — — : mr„.k i'ari 1 1 "rr-nnui 

Name in order of merit with total number. 

No. 


83. OB 39 

. . Shri Safrhi Kanta Acharjeo, 510. 

84. OH 41 

. . Shri Milnr Kumar Bhattacharyya, 507. 

85. CH 82 

Shri Badal Kumar Son, 506. 

80. OB 18 

. . Shri Kanti Fado Banerjoo, 503. 

87. OH 50 

Shri Sailcndra Nath Paul, 503. 

88. OH 60 

. . . . Nhn Oolok Kumar Chakrabortty, 501* 

89. CH 40 

Shri Durgu Olmran J)ey, 494. 

90. CH 19 

Shri Samnuddm Ahmed, 493. 

91. OH 33 

Shri Dbananjoy Bera, 489. 

92. CH 80 

Shri Amulya Kumar Barick, 487. 

93. OB 56 

. . Shri Monoranjan Bhowmick, 485. 

94. CH 10 

Shri Proknuli Oh. Policy, 483. 

95. CH 46 

Shn Samar Kumar Miikhorjoo, 471. 

96. OH 67 

. . Shri Menu Kumar Ohakraborty, 466. 

97. CH 70 

Shri Subhoa Oh. Singha, 458. 

A. T. SANNYAL, 

Depul .v Director of Agriculture 
^Training and Extension), 

West Bengal. 



THE CALC ITT A GAZETTE. JANUARY 11, 1962 


*>o 



Final Examination- conoid. 


17th Apiil, 

cm2 

(4 uesduy ) 

10- 

30 

a. 

in. 

1 7th April. 

!‘M>2 

(4 uesduy ) 

•> 

■bb 

P- 

in 

1 Nt h Ap? il 

C.U12 

l \\ edi osdiiv ) 

lb 

-3b 

a. 

in. 

1 Sth Aj.i il. 

HM,2 

( \ v edi esduv ) 

- 

•00 

P- 

in. 

Huh April, 

I'M,. 

(4 hui.sd.uy ) 

lb 

3b 

a. 

m. 

1 tlth Apr .1 

1 .‘i)2 

f Thursday) 

2 

bb 

P- 

rn 

Huh V pi il , 

i fit; 2 

(4 hursday) 

2 

,4b 

P- 

in 


English, Paper II. 

Economics. 

Vernacular, Paper I. Allernutn n English. Paper I. 
Vernacular, Paper 1 1 . 

Commercial Geography. 

Moi i ta l Arithmet ic. 

( 'ommore ial Mat lieu miles . 


I Student s of Mi.- Go .ha College of ('oinmnd' and Business Adiniiust ml ion onl\ am allowed to appear at the Pinal E\ami- 
nat ion. Studoiila of t li. Kw-meg ( ’lusses ol GuenU College of C'oimilorce and Business Vdministraf ion, Calcutta, and of institutions 
affiliated to the Governing H,„l> are eligible to 811 lot I he Special ExaminatioiiH on pnwnent ol an exaniuuit ion lee of Rs. .“» for each 
subject . 

o fj umi ji<lr i.mdidatcH are also ponmlted to appear in those Special Examinations and the scale ol fees lixod tor such 

candidate* is in even m.,- < wtl\ double ol what is required to l«» paid by those upper ring from the GoenUu < ullage of Commerce and 
Business Admin isl rat ion «,. horn the affiliated institutions, except, for Shorthand Speed I est at 210 and 220 woid.-t pm- minute m which 
case tin' fees pnyuble an- the same lor all candidates. • -- -- 

3. Bonn fnh privet.- c.mdidateH an* required to obtain sjhvmI permission of the Governing Body ol the College to appW in- tfle 
examination. Special permission is nlso necesmuv bu ed d?d..'m eilhe.r from the Goonka College or Iron) the affiliated institutions who 

are willing to sit for Shoi I hand hp. 'Jests higher than P»b wom\ per minute. The Iasi date lor receiving these applications for pei 

mission is the lOlh ]'• In mn >i 1U(t! 

4. The T\p< writing Ex. miin.it ion w iU consist ol both Speed and 4 ubuluhon Tests. T\pewnfnig mnehmos will lie supplied h\ j 
I | M . ( Vdlege ; but (.uididaloe il flmy mi desne. n,r\ be allowed to use tbeir own machines. I‘K()V LDED PI DOES NOT INTERFERE] 
Ullll 'I HE CROUP 'RR A \GK.M KYI S MADE BY THE AUTHORITIES. 

| u sbor.h. ml a single lee on. il.les a candidate to sit lor t wo consecutive Speed Tmts. /. r., Sb and 100 words. 100 and 120 words 

ami so o . up to J*» i v ,,ids pe. mnu lot S|,,-e<lT.'s1s higher than 100 words per UMiiiib, ho will bn\ e to pay a lee of Bs o for each 

test up to 200 wo. .Is per minute and Hr* lee Bm. 2o lor each tost. at 210 and 220 Words per minute. 

, 0 Xppho.'in in piesenbed lotms available at the Goenka College Office together with the necessary lees as under will bo re- 

eeived horn the e.i ululates Im this olliee on l ho dates and at the hours spoediod below : 

(„) |,„ P| TU| | l^xaninuit ion is Rs. S and it is to be paid on 7th and Uth Maieh 1002, between 12 noon and 2 p m. 

</j) lee Ut < nch subject m Special E mi mi na I ions (or candidates from Goenka College of Commerce >0itl BuKifltfcfr' Adihftiist ration 
i h ! , ,> and is h> be deposited on tin. 7tb and 14th March 1002, iietweeii 2 p.m. and 1 p.m. '•* 

(. i | |,. Mjieh Kiibje, t i i SpiM-iid Examination is Rs. for candidates from the affiliated institutions and Rs. 10 for bona Jidr. 

I H i , Miididui es , and it is to be deposited on 12th and 10th Maieh 1002 between 12 l oon and 2 p.m 

Intend,";; t unlnl.iles lot the J 1 n .,1 and Special Examinations ahoidd pioducc at the tune ol depositing iocs, their original Malrij 
culiitn.il Cert ihciii.K, lining which lees will on no account be accepted. 

t andidnten are re.pm.-d to bung the examination lee receipts with (belli on cadi da\ ol their examinations. 

7. \ II ea all I.iIch an. le.jmred to pav lees lor the mai k hlioot along v. it Ii t ho ox.u.imat ion h*cs at the follow mg rates . 

( io\ eminent < omMi'*ii |.*<H mime sporiul Evmnual ion (. \i linin g Slim I hand ,iml '1 \ p« \imng) .. .. Ko. 1. 

t io\ ernmeiit Coinniei end t oui se linal Examination .. • • • R«- 2. 


P. C. GHOSH, 

Principal < looiikn College ol Commerce and Business Admin istratioi 
and Seeiefaiy (t.r njjjao). Governing Body 


(M MU-/ 01 IDE REGISTRAR, V\ LS I BENGAL 
MADRASAH EDUCATION BOARD 

NOTIFICATION 

Dated the 2nd January 1%2. 

The following d;Pcs have been fixed in connection 
u.lh the High Madrasah, Alim, Fazil and Mumlazul 


Mnhaddeihin F.xammations to be conducted by the 
'Vwt Bengal Madiasah Education Board in J962:~ 

(>) Last date (or receipt of application forms and 
examination fee in the office of the 
Registrar 1 5th March 1962. 

Ui) Date ol commencement of examinations— 
16th April 1962. 

M. HASAN, 
Registrar. 



egistered No. C207 



(Madia 





AUSA 21J 


THURSDAY, JANUARY 11, 1962 


[ SAKA 1883 


PART II— Advertisements, Notices 

rocedure regarding sending Manuscripts for publication of Advertisements! Notices, etc.. In tkie 

“Calcutta Gazette” (Part II). 

1. Manuscripts should bs properly edited and complete in itself. 

2. Manuscripts should always be typewritten on one side of the paper. The name of signatory should be typewritten 
itow the signature. 

3. Manuscripts intended for advertisement in the next issue of “Calcutta Gazette" shall be received by Publication Sales 
flee of New Secretariat Buildings, 1 Hastings 3treet, Calcutta, up to 3-30 p. m. on Friday and at Head Office at Alipore up to 
a. m. on Saturday. 

4. All costs shall be paid in advance and deposited along with the manuscripts. 

5. Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING (PUBLICATION 
IANCH), WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRE88, ALIPORE. 

The press shall not be held responsible for delay in publioation of any advertisement due to the non-ooservancs of tbs 
iructions detailed aoove. «*-*s**=***^^ 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 
Advertisement No. 52 

' l'PLK ATIONS are imbed lor undeimeiit ioned posts 
mu 1 1 1 ( 1 1 :i 1 1 citizens ami persons ol Indian ongin initiated 
an l\Jo .tan uiili intention oi permanent 1\ settling in 
. ji.i oi sni)|ec!s ol Nepal, Sikkim or lnim , T Portiipue^*/ 
in. Ii possessions ill India. Age limits reiaxable 

r Government servants except where otherwise specified. 

>,)( i limits tcluxahle b % \ 5 % \eais toi Scheduled Caste 

id Si beduled Tribes candidates and up to to yeais loi 
placed persons liom Pakistan. No lelaxatmn lor others, 
i i m exceptional ei i eunistam os and w ill in no ease be 
MM ! beyond three years. Qualifications relaxablo at 
mimission’s discretion in case of candidates otherwise 
ill qualified. Particulais ami application forms from 
Mtetaiy, Union Public Service ( ommission, Post Box 

!> 1 MJ* New Delhi. Bequest lor lonns must specify 

him ii| prv.t and should lx* accompanied h\ selt-addiessed 
dumped ( nvelope lor each post at lea-t ol Size X 
theuling thereon name ol posts lor v\hnh forms are 

'juiri'd Closing date loi ro< eipl ol application with 

« i m;, receipt oi crossed Indian Pe-tal Older lor 
i 7.5b nP (1 H7 n P tor Sehcduhd Castes and Scheduled 
M he,- ) the Lilith January 11)02 (12th February 1902 lor 

ipbeanls I rom abroad). Commission may ri'iuit genuinely 
• hireiit and bona fide displaced persons’ lee. Separate 
elicai ion willi separate lee leqimed lor each post, (’an- 
1 lie*, abroad ma\ anply on plain paper if forms ue not 
•oi.elc and deposit lee with local Indian Embassy. 11 
pnicd candidates must appear lor personal interview. 

! Professor of Film Appreciation, Film Institute of 
Poona, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. 

M temporary lor an indefinite period, but appointment 
hi* made on a five-years’ contract basis. Post reserved 
' heduled Castes candidates, if such suitable candidate 


available, tailing which to he trealed as reserved for 
"*'ch<*dn led Tribes candidate, if sueli suitable candidate 
callable, otherwise treated as unreserved. Candidates 
will Mild with their applications copies oi hooks, articles, 
etc., written hv them on films. Pay: Its. 7(X) — 40 — I 1(H) 
jb/2 1.250. Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
ami experienced candidate. Age: Between .‘JO and 45 
\ edi s. Qualifications: Essential (d Degree ol a reeog- 
ni'-i d uinveisity. (ii) Experience in critical analysis and 
r'w lew ol films. (iii) Adequate technical knowledge of 
film making, (i\ ) Knowledge ol Indian History, Art and 
Culture. 


- Statistical Officer, National T.B. institute, Ministry 
of Health. Post temporary but likely to continue 
indefinitely. Pay: |{ s . 700 — 40 - 1,100 — 50/2 — 1,250. 

Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate. Ages Below 05 years. Qualifications: Essen- 
tial - (i> At least 2nd class Master’s or equivalent Honours 
degier in Statistics or Mathematics oi a recognised 
iiiiin ei s 1 1 y . (ii) About five years’ experience of statistical 
vmk pi el era hi \ relating to medical / public health 
problems. 


i One Principal, Janta College, Alipur, Delhi Adminis- 
tration. Post temporary hut likely to he retained on 
permanent basis. Post reserved tor Scheduled Castes/ 
Tubes candidate; if no such suitable candidate available, 

"ill be heated as unreserved. Pay: Rs. U25 — 15 475 

K |t. 20— -575. Higher initial pay to specially qualified 

aim experienced candidate. Ag0:— Below 40 years. Quali- 
fications: Essential — 0) Degree of a recognised University.* 
(n) Degi oe/ Diploma in 1 caching/ Education, or equivalent, 
(im framing and/or experience m community organisa- 
lion work ; and/or Post-graduate degree in social work or 
equivalent. (iv) Knowledge of Hindi. 


JO 


TH H CAUTTTA (JAZKTTK. JANUARY 11, 1962 


[Part 1] 


4. One Lecturer in Chinese, Indian Military Academy, 
Dehra Dun, Ministry of Defence. Post temporary anti 
likely to continue. Post reserved ior a Selieduled (Pastes/ 
Tribes candidate, it available, otberwi.se will be treated as 
unreserved. Candidates selected ior interview may also be 
required to sit lor a vvrilleu test. Pay: Its. 350 25 — 5(K) 
- 30- -050. Higher initial pay lip to 050 may lie planted 
to specially qualified and experienced candidate. Ag8: — 
Jielow 35 ’years. Qualifications: Essential— (i) Degree or 
Diploma in Cbmese Language oi a recognised University/ 
Institution, (m Re idence lor at least one year in a 
country when cbimse language is spoken, (iii) About 
two years’ expenence ol teaching in the language. 

5. One Public Health Engineer under the Coal Mines 

Labour welfare Fund, post temporary but likely to con- 
tinue; reserved ior Scheduled Tubes candidates, il su< Ii 
suitable candidates sue available; otheiwi.se treated as 
unreserved. Pay: K, . 700 — 40 1 ,400 — .00/2 - 1,200. 

Higher initial pay up to Hs. 1,020 per month may be 
granted to specially qualified and experienced candidate 
Ago: — Below 10 wais Qualifications: Essential- (i) Degree 
in Civil Engnieei mg. (pi) Post-giaduate degree or dip- 
loma in Public Health Engineering Irom a recognised 
University /Institution. ini) About A years’ experience in 
ibe held ol Public Health Engmoct mg or about 10 years 
experience in Public Health Engineering Works. 

0. Master in Physics, Rashtriya Indian Military Col- 
lege, Dehra Dun, Ministry of Defence. Post permanent, 
but appointment m be- made* on temporary basis m lien 
vacancy. Post icserved for Sc hod u led Pastes/ Tribes can- 
didate, il such suitable candidate available, otherwise 
tieatetl as unicserved. Pay: — Its. 325— 15 175 -E.B.— 
25- 500 — ;U> --(>1 Ml. Higher initial pay to specially (puddled 
and experienced candidate. Age:— Below .35 vears. Quali- 
fications: Essential (i) At least 2nd class Master’s oi 
equivalent llonoiim degree m Physics ol a recognised 
university, (u) Degree or Diploma in teaching, (in) About 
tin oo years’ teaelimg expenenee in a recognised school. 

7. One Senior Pathologist, Wiliingdon Hospital, New 
Delhi, Ministry o; Health. Post temporary and hkelv to 
eontiiiue. Pay: -Its 700 10- I ,|(M) — .'>0/2- -I 251) (revised). 

Plus 2A per cent . non practising allowance (Private prac- 
tice ol auv kind will not bo allowed). Higher initial pay 
to specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age: 

40 years and below. Qualifications: Essential to A 
Medical qualification included in the First or Second Sche- 
dule oi Part II ol Tluid Schedule to the -Indian Medical 
Council AH, I05( : lit) Post-graduate Degree or Diploma 
in Pathology m Medit me with Pathology as main xulqcct. 
c.g., M.D.. or DC P. (in) About .seven years’ standing 
in the piolessmn vvilli about live* years' practical experience 
in a Pathological Laimi.itoiy oi in a Pathological Depart- 
ment ol a Medical College or Hospital. 

H. Ono Administrative Officer, Integrated Photo Unit, 
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Post, tem- 
porary bill likely to continue. Post resoivcd lor Scheduled 
Onstes/'l films can lidatc. Appbcai ions invited liom Scbe 
duled Castes/ 't ribes candidates only. Pay:— Its 350 20 
— lot) 25 Ho plus special pay ol Its 7b pel month. 
Higher initial pay !<■ '.penally qualified and experienced 
candidate. Age:- Not exceeding lb yeais. Qualifications: 
Essential -(I) Dcgiei Ol a recognised I ■ ti i v 1 1 si t \ 
(il) About (bier vear.s’ e\p(»rienee ol adnnnistr,ii ive 

accounts and establishment work in a responsible cquntv 
in a Hov eminent Minimisation oi public bodie . or in a 
commercial (onccin ol lepule (in) Knowledge o| Hovern- 
moot rules and regulations. 

• 

Ik One Principal, g. B. Pant Polytechnic, Okhla, De|h, 
Administration. IV I lempoury and likch to continue 
Post reserved lor Casles Ti ib, .. candidate; it 

no such suitable (amndatc ava.'able, it will he treated .is 
unreserved. Pay: It.. 000- -|(‘ -f.lon bn l.2b(). ; I j. b* , 
initial pay to spec.jPh qualito d and txpenemod candidate. 
Ages — lb vears and below Qualifications: Essential— 
(i) At least second ( lass degiee in Engineering ol a recog- 
nised Cniversitv. um About eight years’ prob s mmal 
experience ol v hmh about loin* ve:iis should l»e in 
teaching. 

• 

JO. (a) Two Senior Marine Surveyors, and (b) five 
Deputy Marine Surveyors tor the Dredgcr-cum-Survey 
Launch Pool, Ministry of Transport and Communications. 

Post temporary but likely to become permanent. Othm* 
things being equal Scheduled Castes candidates preferred. 


Pay: For (a):- -It*. 700 -40- MOO-bO/2— 1,250. Ft* 
(b) : — Rs. 100- KM) — 450— : JO — (i()0 — :4o — 070 — E. B. — 35. 
050. Hi glic i initial pay to specially qualified and experience 
candidates. Age: -Below 40 years ior (a) and 35 year, 
lot ib). Qualifications: Essential— (i) Degree in Ci# 
Engineering ol recognised Cnivorsity, Or (Certificate oj 
having passed tin* bind Dutterin examination suceesstullv 
(ii) About ten years lor (a) and about five years’ for [L 
practical experience either with the Navy or in CuJ 
Engineering connected with River Surveys or river guugind 
Note: Eoi post (b) ( ’erti lien te ol equivalent sea trniniiij 
requued lor Dutferin Examination with ii\<‘ years’ pruci] 
cal experience, may be considered as alternative to essnu 
1ml qualdnation (i). 

11. One Senior Scientific Officer, Grade I, Research ant 
Development Organisation, Ministry ot Defence. Poi 

tempoiary but likely to become permanent. Pay:— Its. fq 
— bn- 1 .250. Higher initial pay* to specially qualified aut 
exjMiicnced candidate. Ago*. Preferably above 35 yean 
Qualifications: Essential— (i) Degree or Diploma u 

Aeronaut md Engineering ol recognised Vniversity / Institiiij 
or equivalent. ( n ) About live yeais’ i (‘search or develujjj 
uicii t woik in applied Aerodynamics. • j 

12 Ono Senior Scientific Officer, Grade I, Research an 

Development Organisation, Ministry of Defence. IV 

Icinpor.ii v but likely to become permanent. Rost reserve 
lot scheduled Tribes candidate it such suitable candidal 
is available otherwise treated unreserved. Pay: — Its. 7i)0 
btl 1 ,2)0. Ilighci initial pay to specially quablied .tn, 
experience, d candidate. Age:-— Pi clerably above 35 yenu 
Qualifications: Essential (i) Research degiee or first cN 
degiee in Physics. (il) About ten yeaiJ 

exjiei icnee in eomputatioii. design and perionnamj 
evaluation ol precision optical systems. I 

13. Research Officer in the Department of Commeri 
Intelligence and Statistics, Ministry of Commerce « 

Industry. Post permanent, but appointment to be m 
on tempoiarv base m hen vacancy. Post icseived 
St bed u led (astes candidate il such suitable candid 
uv.iil.ihlc othciwise post treated jus .lnrcscrvcd. Pay 
IN. K)U 25 5(K) - 30—5110— E. B. -30- SOU E.B. 30- 
35 00(1. Higher initial pay to specially cpialiiied : 
cxpciicnced candidate. Age: - 35 years and below. Qualifl 
tions: Essential- Ill Mu.-tcr's or equivalent I lonoui s dt'g 
ol a i ecoj’iiised uuivcisity in Economics wilh knowledge 
St.it istns oi in Statistics with knowledge 1 of Economics 
in Mathematics with post-graduate diploma in Economi 
<nl Tiaming and cxpeiicriee iti conducting and organ i 
icse.itch in ecoiioiii ic pioblems involving the use oi st.n 
iie^ Or V f m/I! t two yeni:,’ experience in the eolleetn 
compilation and mt(‘i prei at ion ol economical data h 
( J o v c m 1 1 1 1 1 c 1 1 1 d(‘p. n t incut or any institution oi tepiite. 

1 1 One Research Officer (Central), Ministry of Labe 
and Employment and the Labour Bureau, Simla. Pi 

teiupoi.il v but likely to continue. I’ost lesorvod tor Si I 
dull'd Tubes candidate who alone need apply Those v\ 
applied in icspoiise to the ( '(itiiini'' -noil's adv eu l iscim 
No 15 ikmii No. 12. published oil l!ih Novemhei 1' 
need not apply again. Pay:- IN. H)U KM)- 150- 30 t 
35 - 070— E.B - 35—1)50 Higher initial pay to xpen.i 
qualdicd and experienced candidate Ag6:- Below 
years. Qualifications: Essential to Ai least 2nd <1 
.Master’s oi equivalent I lonoui s degiee in Economics, ( 
merce or S ( m nil woik of a recognised Pnivorsity. (ii) Abe 
tbre< years’ cxpeii(iice in conducting investigation 
..(ifo-ecoiionnc jiiobk-ui*. and prepai.il ion ol note, .i 
icpmts thereon 

SPECIAL CLASS RAILWAY APPRENTICES’ 
EXAMINATION JUNE, 1962 

THE I mon Public Semcc Commission will bobl | 
Mlababad Bangalore. Bbojiul, Bombay, abuiLta, 1)> I 
Hydeiehnd Mad'.m, As <i • • j >i: . . Pnlmla, Patna. Sbilloim :■ 

I’rn andi urn an e%amination on (iih and 7tb June 1002 
"cici t k n ol Special Cia— Appientices toi the Meehan 1 * 
Engmcciiiig and Traimpm t ation (Power), Departnunl 
Indian Railways Age Limits*. — Hi-P) years 
Out Vugimt 1001 Cpper age limit lelax-^ 
in (,i‘o cl Scheduled ('astes. Scheduled I'rib 
bona hde dispbued pci soils from Pakistan, suh|(' | 

ot the State ol Pondic hm ry and candidati’s btdongine ‘ 
the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Qualification: Caini 
data's must have passed in first or second division ti 


1*aut 1 1 ] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 11, 1962 


11 


Intermediate or an equivalent Examination with Mathe- 
matic and ut least one oi the subjects I hysies ami 
Chemistry or possess one ol the alternative qualifications 
prescribed in the Holes. Applications troin candidates 
who have appeared or intend to appear at the quaiining 
examination accept able pro\ isimialK . Application tortus 
and mil partieulars obtainable limit Secret a i>. \ num 

Public Service Commission, Dliokwr House, New Delhi-ll. 
hv remitting Re. UK) h\ money order or on cash Payment 
at the counter. Fvcr> 'candidate must elearlx ^ate mi 
uuniev order coupon ‘SPKCIAL (.'LAs 1 v 1 1 L\\ A ) 
VlMMtKNTK’KK' FA \ M IN VTION , dCNK, I ".'I " an d also 

pivc Ins name and lull met il address m block lettei i > 
p.v.td orders or cheques oi eunviny notes will not be 
;mt opted in lieu oi moimv orders. Completed application 
must /eat h the l nion Public Scivice Commission by Rhl* 
he hi nary RHi 2 (Ath Maieh RK>L\ in case ot candidates 
le.sicimg abroad). 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 
Advertisement No. 1 


available, otherwise to be treated as unreserved. Pays— 
lis. — 25 —500 — A( ) — A9( )~~ K . R. — AD — 800 — F. R. _ AO— 

8A0 — A 5 — :)( 10. llightn initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. Age: - AA years* and below. Quali- 
fications.' Essential — U) Decree oi Diploma in Veteiinan 
Srienee, or Master's decree in /oology. with speculi'a! ion 
in I uiidamental (ienelics ol a recognised utiiwrxitv uisti 
tut ion . (ii) About three years’ rescan h experience oi 
blood grouping work in an established immunogenotics 
laboratory in India or abroad. 

i, One Doputy Government Advocate, Central Agency 
Section, Department of Logat Affairs (Ministry of Law). 

Post permanent and rest-? \ ed tor '■scheduled Tid>es eamh- 
'bite; it no such smtabh candidate ai ailable, will i)0 
treated as unreser\ed. Pay: —Its. 1,100 ---A0 1,100 

Higher initial pay to .special I v quahlmd and experienced 
i a nd i date. Age: — IA \ears and below. Qualifications: 
Essential — (i) A practising Advocate ol a High Court 
(iiiiuT iini with the practice ami pi need lire ol the Supreme 
Court. Or Ail Attorney ot the High Court ol Rombay oi 
Calcutta with pi actual expel ienee in a Solicitor’s firm ol 
lepuie, (ii) Must he eligible tor eiimlmenl as an Advci- 
eate in the Supreme Court under the Supremo Court 
Rules, l PAD. 


A I’RMCATIONS are invited ioi undermentioned posts 
trom InTlian iiti/ens and persons ot Indian oiigin migrated 
trom Pakistan with intention ot permanently setting in India 
or subjects o! Nepal, Sikkim or luthier French ! Portuguese 
possessions m India. Age limits relaxable for Government 
servants except where otherwise specified. Upper age 
Inuiis reh sable b\ A \eais tor Scheduled Castes and Sche- 
duled Tub' s ci mini *te.. No relaxation lor otbeis, save 
in t set ption.il ciri iimstani'es and will in no case be relaxed 
lusoml thee v c,ii s. Qualifications reiaxable at Commis- 
sions discretion in case of candidates otherwise well 
qualified. Pn t iciilais and appliiatum tonus ohunmbh 
I to't* Siuicfaiy, Union Public Service (’oniMibsion, Rost 
15,, v N,. | ; \ ( . u Delhi. Request for boms mud specify 

name ol pod and should be accompanied by selt-addi exsod 
mist. imped cm elope lor e.icli post at least o* .-»i/,e 0 X I 
indmaii" ' ihi'ieoii name oi posts toi wl'mh hums aie 
loqiiit od (", o-.iug date ini tcicipi oi s.pplvatmu with 
ticasiir\ nveipt ot crossed Indian Postal Order Ioi 
Its 7.',!) uP. (1 87 mR. ioi Scheduled Cades and Si h ‘doled 
Tribes, tie Ath lu-hruaiy CM,:? (t'Uli Feb«.m:\ RK*»*d lot 
appluaul 1 trom abioad). Separate apiluatum with 
scpa.MK ,ee MMpiper! lor eaeti post. Oandi la ‘ ''s abroad 
iu.t\ applv on plain paper it ioi ills are not available and 
,h posit i tv uitli total Indian Kmbass\. It. nqmicd can- 
didates * > • u s | appear- *oi personal interview. 

1. professor Of Editing, Filin IrstiUde of India, 

Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Post tem- 
porary . ml is liVelv to continue indefinite] v but appoint- 
ment \\ '! |,e , . > de oi r > uviid leneuablo lomiacl Post 

i . wr\ ed lor m iieduled tribes jailing which tor scheduled 
, :isie, it *- i it h -w.'.dde (amiulah avadiblo uti'i- nor 
heated u n ? e-mi \ eit Pay:--Rs 700 - - 1 * * 1 . 1 ( it > — • .( * / 2 

l, 250 Hmfiei mdial M » x to specially (p. » 1 » r * d and 

expel 'em od laml'dat.* Ago: — Between AD and 15 Tears. 
Ouai'tir.atjOns: Essential hi Degree of a leeog-i'scd 

i:in\ eisit \ . (n) About. sc\ en years’ exjierioneo as a Film 

F, litor > t * a i * 1 1 o t *'d ormMU'.a lion, with tbeojihial and 
;n act mat kimwledL’C <>l Film editing. 

2 . S'ven Assistant Fditors CRcgional Languages), one 
eacr» for Assart:tsc, Bengali, Gujerati, Hindi, Malayalam, 
Marathi nnd Oriya, on the Research (non-Government) 

siefp e. r the fndrnn Conned of AgricidPva) Research. 

I'n- 1 leepoiai; bid likeb to eonhium Other tilings 
h i :*ig ea Mil I «■' In doled ease's/ 1 1 dies i an lulati • p fete, led 

Candidates selected for interview will be rcmuirod to sit 

for written test, details of which will follow, Pay: 

IU inn- '25 5Dh AD - ^150 UR -AD ^*.D Hi lie* mitnl 

m, [\ to spc<**:ill\ qualified and e\pcncmed .;mdid),es. 

Age:— 15 Teats and hhe.\ Oualificatiuns: essential 

(i) Degree ot lccognmed imivc % rsit\ with p'-ofiei* m \ in t Im* 
hum u, urn coneciiud. (n) About tlnce umc f\,M i iem-f ot 
ioiii nalist ie /litei ,m u.'ilc and 'or ,,! |r.insla { * a work from 
t.n L r|p|, to tic* regional langnaue and vicc’.er^a »'e\ idence 
to be loinivlied with annlie.itinn » . 

A Assistant Research Officer (Immunogcnetics), Indian 
Veterinary Research Institute, Ministry of rood and 
Agriculture . Po t im i tnnnen f . but apjiointnuMit to be made 
on temporary basis in lien vacancy. P</st reserved tor Seim- 
(bib'd caste*- 'tribes candidate, il surh suitable candidate 


5 Lecturer in Animal Nutrition, Post-graduate College 
of Animal Sciences, Indian Veterinary Research Institute, 
Izatnagar. I'oh temporai> but likely to continue. Post 
lemoned Ioi M'hoduled east cs / 1 1 ibes oamlidatc ii such 
Miitnh\ i.iudulutc availahlo; otherwise' tn>ated as 
nine ci\od. Pay: Rs A5(t — ‘J.5 --.5(H) - A0- Apt)- -K.R--A0 - 
HDD- F.R.— .AO SAD— A-5 {)()(). Higlur initial pay to 

sp<‘cia(l\ (pmlilu'd and experienced eiimlulate. Age: — Ao 
veais and below. Qualifications: Essential (d .Master’s 
(iegree m Organic (’hcmisti^. Animal Nutrition or Kmchc- 
mislr\ o| a recognised university oi a denre* 1 in Agi mul- 
ture with specialised training in Animal Nutrition, 
ui) Two veins’ research expei ienee in Animal Nutrition. 

<>. Senior Scientific Officer, Grade II (Mathematics), 
Research and Development Organisation, Ministry of 
Defence. Jbmt temporal \ . hut 1 1 Kelx to heroine permanent. 

< )1 hei things la mg equal, scheduled castes / 1 ribes candi- 
lat c prmemsl Pay:— R s . A50— A50— AftO^ A80- A0 -A90- 
F R -AD 7' r i | tD -SAD. Iliglier initial p:i\ to specially 
quaidiod and expel icuccd i and'detc. AgC: PicbTably 40 
\ cii-s and below Qualifications: Essential- R (’scat cb degree 
or first class Master's degree m Mallicmaties tollou cd by 
good rescan h work. 

7. Assistant Research Officer (Virus vaccines), Indian 
Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar. Post lemporan, 
bin likely in continue Post fim'Imm! tor M'liediileil 
rinlc./ ti ibe„ candidate, i) mu Ii suit .lib 1 ciml'datc is nvail- 
abh‘. ollmiwiso ticated as iinresm \ erl Pay:- its A-5D 1?A - 
“DO -AD— ADD- U R — AD -HDD K R AD- HAD - A5 — D00 
Hilbci ifiiti.'l pa\ to specially qiialilicd and c'peiK’mcd 
e‘i ndidat^x Ago- AA \cars ami below Qualifications: — 
Essential — (i) Ihcico or Diploma m Vr'tvnnarv Science oi 
a recognised iiiiimm sit \ / inst it lit ion. (ii) About tliree \ ears’ 
in ait leal exjMiienrr in the inaniilaetiue oi Veteiinarv 
Riologira | pmdiiets esp('.*iall v \i»ic, uierms 

s. Estate Manager, Indian Veterinary Research Insti- 
tute, Izatnagar. Post permanent and reseived im sche- 
duled i asies / 1 • ihe* candid, ite il simli siniable eanrlidale 
available otlu'rwre tfe'itiil as inne^'rv <■< I Pnv: Rs A 5 D 

IT. ADD .ID 5DD- F R - AD HDD F. R AD *A0- F R. 

IDO lindiei imti’d | x to s | M " i 1 1 1 \ qualified and 
f Mierieneed candidate Age: >’IA u*ais and below. Quali- 
fications: Essential n) Dejriee or Diploma in Agiienlhne 
ol a iccovh! o,| n M I \ e l > i t V (il) \ boil I (Wo veal*’ e\peri- 
eoei ol cull »\ ;• i am ot loo h i flops and m nauement oi 
ia: mi animals 

') A?sift?nt Entomologist (Bee-keeping) in the Scheme 
tor Research on Indh'O Honey-Bee at the Botanical Sub- 
station, Pusa (Bihar). Post temporarv bid Id eh to 
lontinne. I’n., re e?*ed for si Iieduled tribes candidate. i r 
such nuliible eandidate available; otlieiuise freah’d as 
uni (‘.served P^y: Rs. A.50— 25 >DD AD AfiD 10 R AD 

(/ |U- **AD A 5- DDD lligliei initial pu\ to 

. pei lally ijualified and e\]»eri<‘ii'*ed eandidate. Age: AA 
x.ai'- and below. Qualifications : Essential — t i > Master’s or 
♦Mpiiv;’ lent Honour*' degree in Zoology with FutomoJogy a-» 


12 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 11, 1962 


[Part II 


a special subject, or followed by jxistgraduate training in 
Entomology oi a recognised university. Or B.Sc or B.Sc. 
(Agn.) with Assoc. J.A.K.I. in Entomology. (ii) About 
three yea lcheurch experience in Applied Entomology, 
prelerably bee-keeping, ns evidenced by published 
papers. 


JO Assistant Research Officer (Inheritance), Indian 
Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar. Post temporary. 

but, lilv<*l\ ! o eon! uni''. Po> 4 > reserved ler scheduled caste.-,/ 
tribes < aixlidati , i! stub suitable candidate^ available; 
ot liei'W IS' * Hc.it, *d a- mi l csci vc;l. Pay! -lls. .loO Jo — oOO 

_dO-->!)0 K.IJ. do -800- E.B. -M- -830—35- 000. Higher 
initial ] »*/ x to spei uillv cpialificd and e\p< i lenced ctfidi- 
date. Age: ;C> >c ( .is and lidovv. Qualifications: Essen- 
tial— (i) At least 2nd class or eqimaleut degree in Statis- 
tics oi iccognisiil unncisity. Or At least 2nd class 
Bachcloi’s dtM'ire in .Mathematics with at least two years 
postgraduate Gaming lnnu a lecogmsed institution in 
statistics < 1 1 ) Urseareh experience in the application oi 
Ftutistns to (Jii.inldatis e Genetics and/or Animal 
Husbandry . 


11. Assistant Research Officer, National Dairy Research 
Institute, Kamal. Post tempoiaiy. and reserved lor sche- 
duled insle i t M hi s candidate 0 such suitable candidate 
uvailahlc; oliienw^e treated as wnicscivcd. Pays— Hs . do0 

‘,oo - do .v.hi — K lu- 30- soo-E. p.-do-Kto— :v>— 900 

ilieher initial pax to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate. Age: do .xeais and below. Qualifications: 
Essential <n Mastci’:, degree in Chcimstn, Bio-ehmnist r\ 
<ir Ghen.n il 1 ci bnologx , oi iceogmscd university 
(u) About two \i.ps experience oi analytical work. 

]‘j Production Officer on the Research (nOn-Gowern* 
ment) side o; the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. 

j>ost tejujMH .u \ , hut l.kclx to continue indefinitely. Otliei 
thtii"s being equal, scheduled castes/ tribes candidate 
prelmred. Pay: IN 700— 10—1,100-- .50/2 — 1,2A0. Higher 
initial pav to speually quahiied ami expenoiieed candidate. 
Age:— Prelerably Id \enrs and below. Qualifications: 
Essential ~(i) liegiee ol recognised University, (it) About 
Iiv(> yi'.'irs’ v jMM-ifm-"* in a responsible capacity in u pnb- 
lisliiiin house or a press ol icpole or Government publicity 
ormtmsation rlealit.e with the prmlui'tum of books nniKa- 
z,nes pamphlets, etc., ol winch evidence .should las lor- 
nishod. (iul 1’iactieal expeneme ol quality printing ami 
production. 

1.?. Two Deputy Drilling Engineers, Geological Survey 
Of India, Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel. Costs tern- 
no, ary hut hi el, lo •oniinue lor an indefinite period 
Posts’ icsencd lot scheduled castes candidate; it no such 
soitahle candidate available, both the posts will be trealed 
as Uiiresenid Pay: -Us 700 -40 -1 .100—50/'.!- -1 ,‘->0 
Higher indial pav to spis-ially qualified and expel letued 
earn l slates. Age: 10 ,ea,s and below Qualifications: 
Essential (I) llevp ee ill Mechanical or Mining Kngmeei 
in., ol a rei-opinseil I niversily. or an equivalent qualih 
i'll? mu (Mt Ti aituiiL' in different methods ol eme-drillliiK 
inrludiii" diamond and rotary drilling, (in) About six 

s’ V'Npei.emr m diilling different lormations with 
various tv pes el h illirip mnebines with diffluent coie 
diameters im'lmhn" aup.le-liole drilling. 


I I One Accounts Officer, Department of Company Law 
Administration, Ministry of commeroe and Industry. Post 
tempura rv hut litelv to eontiuue lor an mdehmte permit 
I’ost resen id tor scheduled castes candidate; d no slid, 
Mhdde candidate available, it wdj he treated as 
n resenad Pay: |?s. 900- 40 -1,100 .4I/‘J- IJoll. Ilnlier 
initial P*. lo specially qualified and experienecd candidate 
Aae'—I') veais and helmv. Qualifications: Essential 
(i) ('ll. ii leie, l Aeeounlant. m) About live years’ oxpenei.ee 
as Chari < m! Aeeonnlanl, prelerulily eonneeted will. Joint 
Stock Company. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WE8T BENGAL 

General instructions to oantfldates applying in rosponao to 
advertisements Issued by the Commission for reorult- 
ment to posts of “Soleotion”. 

(1) Instructions regarding submission of application.— 

Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available trom the office of the Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor). 
Ah poio, Cahutta-2/, personally or on sending a large self- 
aildi eased envelope with stamps sufficient to cover the 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 

copies of the prescribed form may apply on any similar 
typed i not handwritten) form showing exactly the word- 
ing and spacing of the sample form published in the 
“Calcutta Gazette” of the let September 1955, provided 
the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ own handwriting. 

( 2 ) Particulars and certificates required.— Candidates 

should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
trom responsible persons, testilying to their private 
character. 

The Commission accepts only the age of a candidate as 
lecorded in the Matriculation or the Secondary School 
Final/ Leaving (Certificate. In the case of a female candi- 
date wnose age is not recorded in the Matriculation or 
School Final Certificate, any of the following evidence ot 
ago is accepted by the Commission: — 

1. A certificate from the Headmistress of the school 

which she last attended, showing her exact age as 
recorded in the scfiool register. 

2. An affidavit regarding her age sworn by her father 

or mother or some other person in a position to 
know by having been present or heard of her birth 
at the time of occurrence. 

8. A certificate regarding her age, from a Member of 
the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who must 
have known the candidate and her family, indicat- 
ing clearly the evidence on the basis oi which he/ 
she satisfied him self/ herself on the point. 

(A) Fee.- Candidates must enclose with fheir apolica- 
tions a fee of H«. 5 in the form of a receipted clialan 
from a Government Treason or the Reserve Bank of india 
under i ho head “XXXV 1 — Miscellaneous — Receipts of the 
1'ublie Service Commission, West Bengal”. Money <,rden», 
cheques, etc., in lieu of treasury ehallans are not accepted 
Postal order, however, may be accepted from candidates. 
Thej should he crossed and made payable to “The Secre- 
tary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal”. No appli- 
cation will be considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application fee. 

Candidates abroad may deposit their application fees 
with the High Commissioner of India or the Embassy, as 
the case may he, and obtain receipts for the same, which 
will have to he at, Lathed to their applications to be sub- 
mitted to the Commission, 

Candidates in Co\ eminent service should make *ure 
before depositing fee that their ajiplieations will be iorward- 
od by their superior officers. In no case will the fee paid 
with t he application he refunded. 

'1 he Commission may remit fee ip case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced person from Pakistan. 


q SDficial Officer (Basic and Cultural Literature), 
iistry of Community Development and Cooperation. 

d tomiH.Miv. but likely to continue indefinitely 1’ost. 
erved lor scheduled cnstcs/tribes candidate it xn-h 
I iblo candidate avail,. Me; otherwise treated as 
-iLservcd Pay: Its. 700—40- 900. Hijrlier mil ml |>a> 
sneeialh qnalil.cd and , M .erieneed i candidate. Age: 
■leriblv 40 viav, and below. Qualifications: Essential ; 

1 of a i ei •utilised .iniursitv (n> him vear.s 

icrienee in a sn|iemsor> post, tint Kxiienenee of work 
dm* with the inoiluction purchase, and pnntiug of 
>lieatioxi* <*tc. 


An indigent displaced person shall, in the first instance, 
pay t lie application fee prescribed for a gazetted poet 
advertised by the Commission but if ho /she is selected for 
and appears at the interview, the foe paid by him/her will 
be refunded afterwards. 

Note.— “(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, e.g , 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member of # Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original. 


J*a»t II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 11, 1962 


13 


(ii) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with bis appli- 
cation a certificate in original lrom a gazetted officer or a 
Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging to 
the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 

(m) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion fee must furnish besides the evidence required under 
Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or » Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.” 

(4) Address. — Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 

(5) Canvassing. — Any attempt on the jmrt of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
lullnence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
tor appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
jiorsons interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will he disregarded. 

(6) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under ary Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation), in 
India will ho rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 

Candidates serving under Government or a local or 
Statutory Body should submit an advance copy in the pres- 
cribed form. The application fee should in such cases be 
attached to the advance copy and not to the original. The 
candidature of such applicants may not however be con- 
sidered if the original applications do not reach the Com- 
mission’s office within a fortnight from the (dosing date. 
Unless applications in original or advance copies with 
application fees are received within the closing date, late 
applications may he rejected. 

A C. HOY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 
Aliporc, the 27th January 196i. 


Advertisement No. 79 

Examination for recruitment of English Stenographers in 
Schedule B 

\ COM PETITI VE EXAMINATION u ill he hold in Cal 
hula in February 1962 tor recruitment, <>l English Steno- 
graphers in the Directorates and subordinate offices under 
})•■ Government oi West Bengal, mi lulled in Schedule B. 
> ' 1 .' lbs. 100 — 200 plus usual dearnc'.s and oilier allowances. 

Qualifications. — (|) School Final Examination Certificate 
i it- equivalent; (ii) Sliced m Slmiihand Stenography at 
he late ot 100 words per mtnufi ; (m) Speed in T\ pe- 
nning at the rate* oi 00 words poi minute. Age not 
'<eed’mj JO years on the 1st January 1902, the period ot 
mil unions temjini ai y service ol si enograpliei s in Sche- 
lde R (including those noi reennted through the Com. 
ns- io»» > being deducted lm caleub. I ion ol then age. The 
;' r limit i s relava hie hv live wars lot Scheduled Castes / 
^iihos and by three years lor displaced persons troin 
■i ki staii and ciglil years il -ueh a displaced person »*e 
Co of a Scheduled Caste 'Tribe. The am* limit is also 
‘•livable in certain other oims. 

Copies ol detailed notice ami application hum obtainable 
!<1( ' of <osl I mm the office ol tin* Public Service Coiumis- 
NV**st^ Bengal, Anderson House (ground Hour), Aliporc. 
•d( utta-27, personally or on sending a sell -addressed taim* 
'"elopt* (size 10" x 5") with postage - lamps wot th 25 nave 
l,u *‘ affixed thereon. Those who intend to take appli- 
‘'bon 1 orni , etc., and/or submit the applications 
tonally, should do so between 10-15 a.m and J-00 pm 
5 Ml working days and between 10-15 a.m. and 
K-dO p,m. on Saturday*. Application* (with two copi«* 


»i passport size photographs) to be submitted on pres- 
cribed iorm with a (Tossed Postal Order of Hs. 10.1H) 
payable to “the Secretary, Public Service Commission. 
West Bengal*' m a Treasury Chalan lor Rs. 10.00 under 
head “XXX VI Miscellaneous — Receipts ol Public Service 
Commission.' West Bengal". The Commission may remit 
tees ot genuinely indigent and bona tide displaced persons. 
\ candidate seeking remission ot Jees will, however, * ho 
riHpureJ to pay the proscribed fee along with the appli- 
cations. .1 1 ho appears at the examination and satisfies 
flu*' Commission that In* is a bona lido displaced person in 
indigent circumstances who can ill allord to pay the few. 
the amount paid shall he rehmded to him. 

Last date of filing applications 1 7th January 1962. 

A. C. BOY. Secretary. 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 
Mi pore, the 28th December. 1901. 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
IN INSOLVENCY 

No. 14 Of 1960 

He: Alfred Steele 

NO'IICF is hereby given that an Order ol Court was 
made on the 5th September 1901 dim ting that the above- 
named Insolvent be discharged as lrom t Ik* said date. The 
said Order was completed on the 25th November 1901. 

iVl. M. CM AKH ABARTTI, 
Official Assignee oi Caleut.t.n. 

0 Council House Street, Calcutta, 
did January 1902. 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
Original Jurisdiction 

In the matter of the Companies Act, 1950 
And 

In the matter ol the Sree Radhakrishna Cotton Mills 
Private Limited. 

COMPANY PETITION No -09 ot 190] 

ADVERTISEMENT OF PETITION 

NOTICE is heieby given that a petition tor the wjuduig- 
np ol tin nhmenamed company b\ tin* High Court at Cab 
fiitta was on the second da\ ol December One thousand 
linn hundred and sixty -one piexcntcd to the said Court hv 
Mndhah Prosad Goi-nka ot 8 Moon* Avenue, Tollygungo, 
Calcutta-10, a contributory oi tin* said Company, and 
that tin* said petition is diieeted to be hcaid la-tore the 
Court on t h< Filth dav ol heliman |%*J. 

Mn creditor, ( out iiluitorv m o'her person desirous ol 
sii|»poiting or opposing the making ol an older on tin* said 
| <*t it ion should send 1o 1 he pctitionm or his Attorneys 
not ice ol Jus intention signed by him oi ins advo(*aie with 
his name and address, s o as to roach the petitioner or his 
Vtlornovs not lat(*r than 5 days helon- the date fixed lor 
hearing ot the petition, and appear at tin* iir*aiing for the 
purpose m person or by his AdwvaU. A copy of tnc 
pH it ion will la* furnished by tin- undersigned to any credi- 
tor or contributory on payment of tin* proscribed charges 
tor tin* same. 

Aim affidavit intended to he used in opposition to the 
petition should be filed in Court and a copy served on 
tin* pctitionm oi Ins attoihcvs not less than 5 days before 
the date fixed lor tin* hearing 

ORR RIGNAM A CO. 
Attorneys fm Pet itioner, 

29 Net lip * 1 1 » 1 1 : » s Road, Calcutta 

Dated this 5th day of January 1962. 

( 28 — 1 ) 


14 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY II, 1962 


[Part II 


HU YAM A PRASAD DODHWKWALA, LT-.lt., intends 
to be enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 


M PJMKAKH BAXDYf >P \I>HVA Y, LL.B., intends u 
be cnrelb-d a .in Vlvmatc ol the Calcutta High Court. 


(000 4 ) 


(028 - i 


SUNIL, RAN JAN M1TRA, LL.B., intends to bo enrolled 
as nn Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(901-4) 


AIONr BHUTAN SIRK \R, LL.B., intends to be enroll. , 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(929-- 


SHRI SANKAR MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends 
to be enrolled as an Advocate. Calcutta High Court. 

SHRI NfLRATAN KHAITAN, LL.B., intends to &, 
(902 — 4) enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(930 ! I 


SACH1KANTA HAJARI, LL.B., intends to bo enrolled 

an an Advoe&fco, Calcutta High Court. 

( 903 - 4 ) 

BlJOy RIM Alt Di d r A . LL.B., intends to be enroll, 

' 1 ' ■ 1 - - ■ as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(Ml I 

SATYAJIT BANfCIWF.B, M.A., LL.B., intends to ho 
•nrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(907 -4) ~ ’ 


SHRT RABIN MAJUMDAK, LL.B., intends to be en- 
rolled «s an AdwH.ile »>t Calcutta High Court. 

(90S -4) 


S1HU BHULVBATI PRASAD BANDYOPADIh U 
. intend 1 - in he e, Moiled as hi Advocate ol the Ca 

i ut i a II igh ( 'mu 1 1 

(Ml? ! 


SHRI COPAL i IIANDRA LAW. LL.B.. intends t«, he 
enrolled as an Advocate c/f Calcutta High Court. ..... .... , . 

K ':" N ' < II'M'IIA (illosll, I.L.R., i, lien, Is 1( , , 
e.HW- D enrolled .is an \ i! v,..;it <• o| llic Calcutta llich Coml. 

CJIU 


SHRI A JIT KUMAR ROSE, LL.IL, intends U> lie 
enrolled as an Advocate in the High Court at Calcutla. 


(918 lj 


SHRI R AMIRI. VS A (LA RAV ALA, B.Sc., I, LB.. intends 
to be enrolled a-, an Advocate ol the Caleufta High Court 


RH9 -4) 


1 Vi . X '. viMn L|. LL.B , intends to 

enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(Ml 


MAHABIR PRASAD SI 1 ARM A, LL.B., intends to 
he enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(920 -l) 


SADil \\ \ 

an Ad\ ot alo 


\VXD.V M1SRA intends to be enrolled 
"I Ihe Cabaitl.i High Court. 


(93.3- 


JANARDIIAN, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Cnb utta High Court. 


.'■R Dim: KUMAR SEN GUPTA, B.L.. intends to > 
em-illeil IK an \dvm-:ite () | the Calcutta Iligti Court. 

( 9-4 


( 927 — 4 ) 



Part II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 11, 1962 


\ imt KFMXE MUKHOPADHYAY, Lli.H.. intends to 
l,„ Girdled ii s in Advocate nl tlic' Calcutta High Court. 

( 10 — 4 ) 


m fR I XRTPEXDR \KUM.\R PE, R.L., intends to ho 
<>ntnilcd as an Adxucato. C’nh ut ta High Court. 

( 17 - 4 ) 


41IRI Slim SANKAR SARKAR, LL.B.. intends to ho 
enrolled as jn Advocate of the High Court of Calcutta. 

( 18 — 4 ) 


S n R I i \ PAN KUM AR SEX GUPTA, LL.1L, intends tc/ 
|,<> i>ii i < >1 !<*• I .is an \dvocato in tin* High Court at Calcutta 

( 19 — 1 ) 


\\ \\|) MAH Aft \.f. LL.R , intends to he enrolled as an 
Llvocate ol the Calcutta High Couit. 

( 20 — 1 ) 


-,J]K! I>1 1 ARKS CHANDRA SARKAR intends to he 
,n. •n!lod ,'s 2111 Aflvooato ot the Caleiitta High Court. 

(21 4 ) 


SHIM J ASOPA K CM \R ROY, R.L., intends to he 
( moiled as ;m Advocate of Cjileutta High Court. 

( 22 — 4 ) 


OFFICE OF THE DISTRICT BOARD, DARJEELING 

ROAD CESS XOT1 EJ CATION 

THE T > i - 1 1 n * t Bo-ud of Ikinecliiur 2 d ;i Sperml Meeting 
lichl on the doth Pe» einhf'i 190 ! n soiled to levy R9ad 
Cess m the District 01 Darieelm; at the tmiximum rate of 
m\ ]iies (i.e., three aayc paise) only m the Rupee on the 
iMeual value of lands et< ., during the ensuing financial 
.'ear 19024)9. 

A. C. CHATTER JEE, 

Second Vice-Chairman. 


PUBLIC NOTICE 

NOTICE is hereby given to Jill concerned th.it Hie puit- 
ncrship firm ot (iocnkn A Company, constituted ot the 
undersigned as partners theieol. umler a Deed of Partnoi- 
ship. dnte<l the 10th August 1900, stands dissolved hv 
consent ot all the partners with effect tiom the 1st Decem- 
ber 1901. 

From 1st December 1901 Sin. Rama Sundari Dehi as 
Administratrix to tin* estate ot X. ('. (loenka, deceased, 
will carry on business umler the name el (loenka A Com- 
pany as sole Proprietress thereof which she had been 
doing before the partnership business, slat led on the 1f>tu 
August 1900. # 

(1) Dll AXOOLALL ('ll III UMAR, 

(2) PURI SHOTTAMLALL CI11R1M AR. 

Cl) SM. RAMA SUNDARI DEIU, 

Part net s. 

Calcutta, dated 1st day ot December 1901 

(16- 1 ) 


THE COMPANIES ACT, 1956 
Creditors' Voluntary Winding-up 

NOTICE OF APPOINTMENT OF LIQUIDATOR 
PURSUANT TO SECTION old 

Name of Company: The Coal Suppliers Ltd. 

Nat u i e oi Business Supply ol Coal as Commission 

Agent. 

Address ol Registered Office 1/A Yansittart Ron, 
Calcutta-1 . 

Name ami Address ol Lifpmluior . Shn A. I), lkmcriee, 
1/A Vonsitlnrt Row, Calcutta I. 

Date ol Appointment: 21s| Deeemhei IDOL 

By whom appointed : Memhcis and Cieditois. 

Eoi The t'nal Supplieis Lid (In Liquidation) 
A. I). BANEIUEE. Liquidator. 

Calcutta, th» 21st December 1901 

( 13 — 1 ) 


NOTICE 

Calcutta, the 1 7( Ii De<rmhei 190l 
REFORM FOOD PRODICTS RRIVM'K I I.M 'TED. 

hereby gixex notice under section 1K‘» ol the Compauie 
Net, 1940. that the following Spc« n! R< < luitmi v a ■ 
passed at an Ext raoidmaiy General ALviim* ! < Id o,i 2! Mb 
December 1901: 

“That the <ompnny he vojunt aril v wo. ml up L» fied* 
tors’ %‘oluiitary windmg-up) 21 m! Sin G R. \giawul, 
F.C.A.. ol 7 I la dings Street. ( .« L 1 * I ,»- 1 ami 1 - 
licrohv appointed a 1 k| 11 i< I 1 or :» t ,* 'Minim • 'tjen to 
he fixed at the meeting". 

The Liquidator ol the Companx he oil c- In*<le pad 
•a remuneration of Its. 2,000 e\< !\d ii" I puidal mu 
expenses. 

For Reforms Food P'odmus P< I Lid, 
('In Liquidation) 

G. R. AGRAAVAL Liquidatoi 

( 27 - 1 ) 


( 14 - 1 ) 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 11, 1962 


[Part II 


Hi 


NOTICE 


FORM No. 151 


Calcutta, the 29th December 1961 

NOTICE i> herein given to all the creditors ul Vita 
Supplies Corporation Private Limited (In Liquidation) to 
submit ptool oi their debt oi claim against the said com- 
j)an\ as leqmicd bv Jaw by delivering ill the office of the 
Liquidator. 7 Hastings Slice!, Calcutta-1, on or before 
the ‘25th !<ebruar\ 1902. It anybody tails to submit his 
affidavit o! proof within the time limited as aforesaid h** 
may be exclude! Iiom I be benefit of any distribution ol 
dividend be! ore jus debt is proved. 

Lor Vila Supplies Corporation (P.) Ltd., 
(In Liquidation), 

G. P. AGRAWAL, Liquidator. 

(20- I) 


NOTICE 

( 'aleult a. I lie 29th December, 1901 

VITA <|Tp|>LI KS CORPORATION PRIVATE 
LI Mil ED lu*rej»\ gi\e> nonce under sen ion ISA of the 
Companies Act, 1956. that tin* billowing Special Resolution 
was pass'd at :m E\t raordinary General M<etmg field on 
28 111 December 1901 

“That 1 lie company he voluntarily wound up (as eredi- 
tors’ voluntaiv winding-up) and Shri G. P. Agrawal, 
EC. A ol 7 Hastings Street, Caleutta-1, be and is 
herein appointed a Liquidator at a remuneration to 
he ti sed at the meeting”. 

Tlx* Lxpiid-'lor ol tin* Company lx* and is heieby paid 
a renuinei .tiioii ol Its. 561 excluding liquidation excuses. 

Eor Vita Supplies Coipn. 1* vt . Ltd., 
(In Liquidation), 

(I. P. AGRAWAL, Liquidator. 

(25- I) 


FORM No. 151 


(See Rule 111 5) 

COMPANIES ACT, 105(1 

CREDITORS’ VOLUNTARY WINDING-UP 
Notice of appointment of liquidator pursuant to section 516 

Name n! Company — Reloriu Food Products Private 
Limited. 

Nat in r ol business - No business carried on 

Address II, Register ed Office 7 Hastings Street, 
Calculi a-1 . 

Nanie(s) and addiess(es) ol Liquidator(s) ~G. I 1 
Agrawal, MW 7 Hasting, Stieet. Calcutta-!. 

Date ol appoint incut 2:)th Dev*ember 1%1. 

Bv whom appointed P»y the members ami creditors m 
a General Me< ting. 

For Reform Food Products Pvt. Ltd., 
(In Liquidation). 

G P. AGRAWAL, Liquidator. 

Calcutta, tlu* 30th December 1961. 

(23 — 1) 


(See Pule 315) 

COMPANIES ACT, 1956 

CREDITORS’ VOLUNTARY WINDING-UP 

Notice of appointment of liquidator pursuant to section 516 

Name of Company- Vita Supplies Corporation Private 
Ltd. 

Nature of business -No business carried on. 

Addiess of Registered Office — 1 8 Netaji Subhas Road, 
Cnl'utta-1. 

Name(s) and address(os) of Liquidator^— G. P. 
Agrawal, F.C.A.. 7 Hastings Street, Calo.utta.-l. 

Date of appointment- 28th I)eec*mber 1901. 

By whom appointed — By the members and creditors in 
n General Meeting. 


For Vita Supplies Corporation (P.) Ltd. 
(In Liquidation), 

G. P. AGRAWAL, Liquidator. 


Calcutta, the 29th Doccinbci 1961. 


( 21 - 1 ) 


LOST, STOLEN OR DESTROYED 
(AS THE CASE MAY BE) 

THE Government Promissory Note No. GAO 21700 ol 
the 3 per cent, loan of 1890-97 lyr Its. 5,000 originally 
standing in (he name of Amiya Lata Datta, the propi lefress, 
by whom it was never endorsed to any other person, 
having been lost, notice is heroin given that pavilion! oi 
the above note and the interest thereupon have been 
stopped at the Public Debt Office, Reserve Rank ol India, 
Calcutta, and that application is about to ho made* lor tin* 
issue ot duplicate m lavoui ol the proprietress. 1 he 
public arc* vautioned against purchasing or ol hoi wise 
dealing with the ubovementioned security. 


\ Garpar Road, Calcutta-!). 


AMTYA LATA DATTA. 

(15— 3 > 


LOST, STOLEN OR DESTROYED 

THE Gov “nimciit Promissory Note No. 264012 of the 
5J per rent loan of 1900-01 lor Rs. 100 originally standing 
m the name ol Komar Arun Chandra Singhu and Kumar 
Manindra ( bandra Singim, executors of Chandramohim 
Dassi, ami ia*st fudmsed to Lahannya Prova, Dasi, tlx* 
piopnetor, bv whom it was nev(*r endorsed to anv other 
1 ‘cisom, having boon destroyed, notice is hereby given that 
] aymmii ol tin* above note and the, interest thereupon 
have la n .-topped at the Public Debt Office. Reserve Rank 
oi iidta, Calcutta, and that application is ahmit to he 
m.me for the is* ue ot duphonfe in favour of the proprietor. 
The public are cautioned against purchasing or otherwise 
dealing vvn'.i Itui abovomentionod security’. 


LA R ANN Y A PROVA HAST, 
w/o Kalipada Sinba, 

P.O. Kandi, .Tibdharpara, 
district Murfihidabad (West BongaD 

(3—8 


]>art II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 11, 1962 


•17 


CUSTOM HOUSE, CALCUTTA 
Notice 

IT is notified for the information of the Importers whoso names and addresses art* given below, that the goods agaim-t thou names 
have boon lying in the Custom House for more than 4 months. 

They art* hereby informed that under section 88. Sea Customs Act, these goods will in* sold by auction within a week fn>m the 
date of this Gazette. 


Serial 

No. 

Landing 

date. 

Position. 

A/C and Rot. No. 

C 'Note No. 

Importer’s name and address. 

No. of 
packages. 

Description of 
goods. 

1 

8-4*60 . . 

E 

N 727 PA 60/1901 

114604 

American Consulate General, 
Calcutta. 

1 

Newspapers. 

2 

9-4-60 . . 

8/C .. 

VT-DIH 60/1916 

21934G 

Mrs. Roehanawanti, C/'o Mrs. 
Arnold. 14 Judges Court 
Road, Calcutta. 

1 

Prol. 

3 

15-4-60 .. 

p/a .. 

N 728 PA 00/2039 

29514 

►Shri V.K.Poddar, lnt. (Hearing 
Service. 

1 

Film. 

4 

16-4-60 .. 

6/2 

FBO NO 60/2055 

5919593 

Messrs. Victoria Court, 91 -A 
Eliot Road, Suit No. 4, G. H. 
Bros., Calcutta- 16. 

I 

Eartop Browlur. 

5 

18-4-60 . . 

14/C . . 

VT-DHL 60/2098 

343331 

To T. B. Shah & Co. P. Ltd., 
Iude Nivas Lajumpath, 

Katlimundu, Nepal. 

I 

Special fertilizers. 

6 

19-4-60 .. 

9/3 .. 

VT-DRL 60/2118 

393522 

Air India International, Cal- 
cutta. 

1 

Special purtK 

7 

21-4-60 . . 

7/2 

VR-HFK 60/2155 

2186162 

Thai Airways International, 
Calcutta. AR16501-26. 

1 

Machinery parts 

(Spares). 

8 

21-4-60 . . 

B 

VR-HFK 60/2155 

142141 

Cathey Pacific Airways, Cal- 
cutta. 

11 

Wearing apparel. 

9 

21-4-60 .. 

B 

60/2155 

121140 

Cathey Pacific Airways, Cal- 
cutta. 

16 

Wearing Apparel. 

10 

24-4-60 .. 

C 

VT-D1F 60/2162 

075154/257970 Quantas, Calcutta 

1 

Suitcase. 

1J 

24-4-60 . . 

1/B .. 

VE-ITKK 60/2221 

138952 

Messrs. Jankidas Ramgopal, 
48 Canning Street, Calcutta. 

1 

Ginsing Tonic. 

12 

28-4-60 . . 

E 

VR-HFK 60/2297 

112139 

Cathey Pacific Airways, Cal- 
cutta. 

19 

Wearing apparel. 

13 

29-4-60 . . 

H 

VR-HFK 60/2297 

142139 

Cathey Pacific Airways, Cal- 
cutta. 

3 

Wearing apparel. 

14 

4-4-60 . . 

9/2 

VII- EBE 60/1825 

31492 

Radio Nepal, Kathmandu, 
Nepal. 

1 

Magarine. 

15 

9-4-60 . . 

9/C .. 

VH-EBF 60/1907 

1396200 

The Irwina Fabrics, J. C. 
Banorjoo and Sons. 

1 

Press Mull. 

16 

10-4-60 .. 

C 

LN-LMP 60/1938 

179567 

S. A. S. . • 

1 

Personal Effects. 

17 

26-4-60 . . 

4/D .. 

GA-PDI 60/2258 

074974 

Mari bar Paharna, Y64 Panch 
Para Majorpara, P.O. Bartala, 
Calcutta. 

1 

Saroe. 

18 

5-5-60 . . 

9/3 

PH-LKD 60/2443 

4803402 

Bookman, 1550 New Market, 
Block Misc. 11-A, Calcutta. 

I 

Special of Colon i 
Books. 

19 

6-5-60 . . 

15/D . . 

VT-DIM 60/2461 

37310 

G. D. Traders 

2 

Air Rep. Pod in 
flight, etc.* 

20 

24-5-60 . . 

19 

AP-AAC 60/2525 

003977 

Mr. S. Nandy Roy, 1 Rainkumar 
Rakliit Lano, Calcutta. 

1 

Newspapers. 

21 

24-5-60 . . 

19 

AP-AAC 60/2525 

003971 

Mr. S. Nandy Roy, 1 Ram 
Kumar Rakhit Lone, Cal- 
cutta. 

1 

Newspapers. 

22 

27-5-60 . . 

5/B .. 

N 701 PA 60/2872 

613538 

Shri IJma Kanta, Execu- 
tive Engineer, Indian Aid 
Mission, Hari Bhawan, 

Kathmandu, Nepal. 

1 

Binocular. 

23 

30-5-60 .. 

16/A .. 

PH-LKB 60/2933 

4839444 . . 

Phillips, Calcutta 

1 

Vaccine. 

24 

31-5-60 .. 

2/A .. 

VT DJX 60/2946 

73254 

S. L. Sethia, 38 Baranashi Ghose 
Lane, Calcutta. 

1 

Hessian special. 

25 

31-5*60 . . 

7/A .. 

VT-DJX 60/2946 

6119 

G. D. Traders 

1 

Samples. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, IANUARY 11, 1952 


[Part II 


18 • 


Serial 

No. 

20 

Landing 

Dato. 

10-5-00 . 


Position. 

2/D .. 

A/C and Rot. No. 

VH-EBC 00/2000 

C/Note No. 

074530 

Importer’s name and address. No. of 

packages. 

. Quantos Representative, India 1 

and Pakistan Quaiitas, Cal- 
cutta. 

Description of 
goods. 

Newspapers. 

27 

3-0-60 


2/D . . 

VT-DGL 00/3004 

73250 

Messrs. Daulutpur Jute Mills, 

P. O. Town Khalishpur, 
Khulna, East Pakistan. 

1 

Bags. 

2ft 

7-0-00 


18/ .. 

VT-DEM 00/3080 

1357712 . 

. Messrs. Gramophone Co. Ltd., 

33 Jossore Road, Calcutta. 

1 

Records. 

29 

8-0 00 . 


A/1 .. 

DA-LOP 00/3100 

540949 

Chief Controller of Purchase, 
Hindusthau Steel (P.) Ltd,, 
Calcutta. 

2 

Sparo parts. 

30 

10-0-00 


14/B .. 

PH-LKP 60/3134 

4839020 

, . Phillips (I) Ltd. 

1 

Vaccino. 

31 

10-0-60 

. . 

8/A . . 

PH-LKP 00/3134 

4920755 

Phillips (1) Ltd. 

1 

Radio Camp. 

32 

17-O-OH , 


C 

VT-DJ 00/3256 

1113041 

. . A. Bhatfcaoharyya, LN.T.U.C., 

1‘. O. Dibrugarh, Assam. 

1 

Personal offocts. 

33 

19-0-00 


H 

AP-ABC 00/3279 

739099 

To the District Sales Manager, 
Pakistan International Air- 
ways, Calcutta. 

1 

P. M. 

34 

19-6-00 

•• 

D/1 .. 

N703 PA GO/3281 

204122 

. . Pan American World Airways 
Ins., Calcutta. 

1 

Newspapers. 

35 

19-0-00 


Allg. 15 

N 703 PA 00/3281 

373840 

. . Messrs. Soonthim Tannery, T.29 
Mission Row Extension, Cal- 
cutta- 1 . 

1 

Leather. 


19-0-00 


1/C .. 

FB-HBI1 00/3295 

7570889 

, . G. D. Traders 

1 

Lungi. 

37 

19-0-00 


I/C .. 

FB-HBH 00/3295 

7570735 

Mr. J. P. Beissac, C/o F/L 
Sandiiu Squadron Ollicor, Mess 
Kalal Kundu, Khargapur. 

1 

Vitamins. 

38 

22-0-00 


E 

VT-DJ J 00/3319 

047540 

. . Gieta Mukherjeo, 30/3 Goabagan 
Lano, Calcutta-0, 

1 

Personal effects. 

39 

22-0-00 


10/3 .. 

VT-DJ J 60/3319 

389009 

. . Air India International, Cal- 
cutta. 

1 

Contactor. 

40 

20-0-00 


12/1 .. 

VR-fLFK 00/3423 

145350 

. . Union Carbide (1) Ltd., 1 and. 

2 Brabourne Roud, Calcutta. 

1 

.... 

41 

l 7-60 


B/l .. 

VT-DJJ 00/3519 

947848 

Assistant Manager, Ail* India 
International, Calcutta. 

4 

Newspapers. 

42 

4 7-60 

•• 

13/3 ... 

N 705 PA 00/ 

3541. 

194574 

Harcolis Nhhuc, Arun Miikher- 
jee <Sc Co. Ltd. 

1 

Slate Bank. 

43 

10-7-00 

... 

Tin Box 

VT-V1Z 00/3081 

17741 J 

Mr. G . Fague, C/o. M. M. &■ Co., 
Vietuallig Dept t . , 16 Strand 
Road, Calcutta. 

1 

Rice samples. 

44 

1 1 7-00 

• • 

8/4 

N 701 PA 60/3709 

513878 

. . Joseph I>. Florio, The Angus 
Co., 3 Clive Ktroet, Calcutta. 

1 

Hair Tome. 

45 

i 3-7 00 

M 

1/4 .. 

N 715 PA 00/3739 

075070 

. . New India Enterprises, 36 
Sheletollu Street, Calcutta-7. 

1 

Arrosal Insecticide 

40 

13-7-00 

« 

1/4 .. 

VT-DJ1 00/3713 

81000 

. . Union Carbide India Ltd., P. 0. 
Box. 2170, Calcutta- 1. 

1 

Bung Socket. 

47 

* 22-7-00 

•• 

9/2 

GA-PDA 60/3740 

1155401 

Mr. Leong, C/o. Station Mana- 
ger, B. O. A. C. # Calcutta. 

1 

Photo Albam. 

4ft 

31 7-00 

• f 

1/3 .. 

GA PDM 00/4059 

109000 

. . Swiss Air Co., Calcutta 

1 

Steel samples. 

49 

9 8-00 

• • 

2/0 ... 

GA PNP 60/4225 

043899 

.. Nika Corporation, 71 Canning 
Street, Block No. A/203, 
Calcutta. 

1 

Vaceline oil. 

50 

1-8-00 

mm 

1/1* .. 

VT-DIM 60/4080 

349230 

. . M/s. Pradip Lamp Works, P. 0. 
Begumpur, Patna, India. 

1 

Flourescent lumj 

61 

14-8-00 


2/4 - 

AP-AAC 60/4300 

746541 

. . S. Nandi Roy, City New Agents, 
Pak. International Airways. 

I 

Newspapers. 

62 

16-8-60 

- 

2/D .. 

VT-DJD 60/4359 

880834 

.. Fourtaria Industrial Ltd., 15 
Cliittaranjan Avenue, Cal- 

1 

W. Liquors. 


cutta. 


Part II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 11, 1962 


.19 


Serial 

No. 

Landing 

Date. 

Position. A/C and Hot. No. 

0/Note No- 

Importers Name and address. 

No. of 
Pkgs. 

Description of 
Goods. 

53 

30-8-6Q .. 

C 

. . FB-GNG 60/4636 

7030769 

•• 

Air France 

1 

Personal effect*. 

54 

2-9-00 . . 

11/2 

. . VT DJJ 60/4689 

390162 


Kalis (India) Ltd., 16 Haro 

St root, Calcutta. 

1 

Spare parts. 

55 

2-9-60 . . 

F/I 

. . VT-DJ J 60/4689 

1090084 


B. 0. A. C., Calcutta 

1 

Thermometer Spts 

56 

9-9-60 . . 

A/I 

. . VT-DJ J 60/4828 

47917 

•• 

District Manager, Air India 
International. 

4 

Newspapers. 

57 

11-9-60 .. 

1/2 

. . N 724 PA 60/4852 

306909 


M/h. Annapurna Fertilisers 
Sturos, Ranmagar Nivas, India 
Chak, Katmundu, Nopal. 

1 

Spl. Sulphate. 

58 

13-9-60 .. 

H 

.. VT-DJI 60/4898 

99215 

•• 

Messrs. Soortijmal N agar mull, 

8 Dalhousie Square, Calcutta. 

1 

Motor Oil Sptg. 

59 

14-9-60 .. 

10/3 

.. N 717 PA 60/4933 

303381 

• • 

International Clearing Agency 

1 

Droa. 

60 

16-9-60 . . 

9/C 

. . VT-DJJ G0/4967 

7392 


Tho Manager, Air India Inter- 
national, Calcutta. 

1 

Photo matter. 

61 

16-9-60 .. 

E/1 

. . VT-DJJ 60/4967 

47924 

•• 

Air India International, Cal- 
cutta. 

3 

Newspaper. 

62 

23-9-60 .. 

E/1 

.. VT-DJJ 60/5108 

47939 

•• 

Air India International, Cal- 
cutta. 

4 

Newspaper. 

63 

25-9-00 . . 

13/4 

.. FB-HBE 60/5156 

7289131 

• • 

Air Franco, Calcutta ! 

1 

Iron foundry. 

64 

1-10-00 .. 

D/1 

. . VT-DJ K 60/5248 

47944 

• • 

Air India 

3 

Newspaper. 

65 

2-10-00 - 

9/0 

. . SE-CCF 60/5289 

2248071 

•• 

Mr. S. V. Saquinor, Qhirai, 
Grand Hotel, Calcutta. 

1 

Broaching. 

66 

4-10-60 .. 

10/3 

.. 714 PA 60/5316 

927418 

•• 

Hindusthan Safety Glass, 202 
Old China Bazar Street, Cftl- 
cutta-1. 

1 

Glass colours. 

67 

4 10-60 . . 

B/I 

. . KB-IBI 60/5332 

1705500 


Punjab National Bank Ltd., 
Foroign Exchange Depart- 
ment, P. N. B. House, Cal- 
cutta, C/o. Hindusthan Gene- 
ral Electrical Corporation, 12 
India Exchange Place, Cal- 
cutta. 

2 

Elec. Condensor. 

68 

7-10-60 .. 

E/1 

. . VT-DJI 60/5393 

47971 

•• 

District Manager, A. 1. J., 
Messrs. G. D. Traders. 

4 

Newspaper. 

69 

10-10-60 .. 

8/1 

.. VT-DHL 60/5454 

435952 

•• 

J. S. Bodi, J. Bidi & Co. Ltd., 
Residency Road, Nagpur- 1. 

1 

Gift Radio. 

70 

14-10-60 . . 

4/B 

.. VT-DJK 60/5531 

3138 

• • 

Messrs. Vika Corporation, 71 
Canning Street, Block No. 
A/203, Calcutta. 

1 

Acidum. 

71 

15-10-60 .. 

E/1 

. . VT-DJK 60/5531 

47979 


DjhU.. Manager, A. 1. G. D. 

T radors. 

3 

Newspaper. 

72 

15-10-60 . . 

I/I 

. . VH-EBE 60/5548 

284412 


Mr. Irfmail A. Memon, New 
Central Hotel, 90 Ohittaran- 
jan Avenue, Calcutta- 12. 

1 

Rock Salt Special. 

73 

16-10-60 .. 

D 

. . FB-GNB 60/5585 

67105129 


Air France 

1 

Mat Avion. 

74 

21-10-60 .. 

9/C 

.. VT-DJ 1 60/5687 

440839 


Mr. G . M. Pnmlain Oxford Book 
and Stationery Co., 17 Park 
Street, Calcutta. 

1 

Text book % 

75 

28-10-60 .. 

E/1 

.. VT-DJI 60/5836 

47673 


Manager of Air India Inter- 
national, G. D. Trailers. 

4 

Newspapers. 

76 

2-11-60 .. 

10/3 

. . BH-DCF 60/5953 

998352 

•• 

Jydk Motor Stores, Sunn Ship- 
ping Agency. 

1 

Auto parts. 

77 

5-11-60 .. 

9/1 

. . DA-LOP 60/0007 

101755 

• • 

Nepal National Youth Federa- 
tion, Makhan Tole, Mahadev 
Pachhadi, Kathmandu, Nepal. 

1 

Flay. 

78 

18-11-60 .. 

10/2 

.. VH-EAB 60/6226 

781095 

•• 

Mir. W. J. Dofremery, Grand 
Hotel, Calcutta. 

l 

Textiles. 

79 

18-11-60 .. 

E/1 

. . VT-DJI 00/6291 

47965 

•• 

Distt. Manager, Air India 
International. 

4 

Personal effects. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JAJsgjARY 11, 1952 


[Part II 


20 • 


Serial 

No. 

Landing 

Date. 

Position. 

A/C and Rot. No. 

C/Note No. 

Importer’s name and address. 

No. of 
packages. 

Description of 
goods. 

80 

25-11*60 .. 

F/l .. 

VT-DJK 60/6433 

2386635 . . 

Messrs. S. K. Putt & Co., Cus- 
tom House Clearing Agents, 
Custom Houso, Calcutta. 

1 

Colour samples. 

81 

28-11-60 .. 

9/1 .. 

VT-P1M 60/6507 

428109 

Singh Studio, 230 Laxmi ttadan, 
Kutcli Pokhari, Kathmandu, 
Nepal. 

1 

Posters. 

82 

1-11-60 .. 

4/3 

VH-EAM 60/5928 

1526107 .. 

.... 

1 

Needlos and spares 

83 

2-12-60 .. 

D/1 .. 

VT-DJi 60/2582 

047522 

Distt. Manager, Air India Inter- 
national, Stephen House, 4 
DalhouHio Square, Calcutta. 

4 

Newspaper. 

84 

4-12-60 .. 

9/2 .. 

DA-AUD 60/6619 

101756 

All India Studonts Federation, 
186 Bowbazar Street, Gul- 
cutta-4. 

1 

Flay. 

85 

8-12-60 .. 

B/l .. 

PI {-DC A 60/6714 

9046510 

The Scientific Instrument Co., 
Ltd., 11 Esplanade East, 
Calcutta. 

2 

Assembles. 

88 

8-12-60 .. 

F 

PII-DCA 60/6714 

4955571 

Phillip (J) Ltd., 32 Chowran- 
ghee Hoad, Calcutta. 

Out oflO 
packages 
detained 

1. 

Electric, equip 

ments. 

87 

12-12-60 .. 

2/2 .. 

VH-EBD 60/6793 

273710 

Madhublal & Co., P. N. Bhutta- 
ehuryya. 

1 

Sample. 

88 

14-12-60 . . 

2/1 

N 727 60/6814 .. 

851538 

R. N. Roy, C. D. Traderb .. 

1 

Printed matters. 

89 

16-12-60 .. 

F/l .. 

VT-D-TJ 60/6866 

Q47537 

District Managt'r, Air India 
International, St rpheiiHouso, 

4 Dalhousie Square, Calcutta. 

4 

Newspapers. 

90 

16-12-60 . . 

3/3 .. 

VT-DIIL 60/6808 

455923 

An Jndia International, Stephen 
House, 4 Dalhousie (Square, 
Calcutta. 

1 

A i remit partb. 

91 

24-12-60 . . 

3/D .. 

SE-CCA 00/6980 

2304277 

Seauduiav.au Anvays Systini, 
18 Park Stiect, (Calcutta. 

1 

Hills. 

92 

23-12-60 .. 

14/2 .. 

VT-DJK 60/701 1 

7328961 

Partha Kumui Chal terjee, 
4/4 Rum Mohan Rouy Road, 
Calcutta. 

1 

Bonk. 

93 

23-12-60 . . 

11/1 .. 

Vl’-DJK 60/7011 

7328834 

Partha Kumar Chat terjee, 

4/4 Rain Mohan Roy Roud. 
Calcutta- 9. 

] 

Catalogues. 

94 

23-12-60 . . 

B/l .. 

VT-D.IK 60/701 1 

47545 

District Munugcf , Air India 
International, Stephen 

House, 4 Dalhousie Square. 
Calcutta. 

3 

New spa per. 

95 

23-12-60 . . 

11/D .. 

VT-DJK 60/7011 

798194 

S. Ragchi, Indo Swish Trading 
Co. P. Ltd., 14 Cunesh Cli. 
Avenue, Kent House, Calcutta. 

1 

(lift parcel. 

96 

1-1-61 .. 

D/1 .. 

VT-DIL 60/7204 

47556 

Di. strict Manager, Air India 
International. 

4 

Spares. 

97 

6-1-61 .. 

1/D .. 

VT-DJI 61/92 .. 

959982 

M. 1>. Mei cunt ile On., 138 
Canning Street, Calcutta- 1. 

1 

Samples 

98 , 

1 6-1-61 .. 

VI •• 

VT-DJI 61/92 .. 

Q47562 

District Manager, Air Jndia 
International. 

3 

Newspaper. 

99ji 

7-1-61 .. 

9/2 

D-ALAP 61/118 

622482 

Mr. Kainpmnmn. (Ho. Con- 
sulate (Joneral of the federal 
Republic (lermunv. Illaco 
House, 1/3 BrahournoRoud, 
Calcutta. 

1 

Films. 

100 

8-1-61 .. 

7/4 .. 

VT-DCL 61/145 

054992 

V ruled Trade* Union Congress 
Central Othco, 48 Dhar- 
matolla Street, Calcutta-13 

2 

Bros ehuradra. 

101 

11-1-61 .. 

1/1 .. 

DH-DGC 61 /221 

4996030 . . 

K.L.M. 

1 

Machine. 

102 

131-61 . . 

6/D .. 

AP-ABB 61/242 

708580 

United IJners Agencies of (I) 
P. Ltd., 17 Muklierjeo 
Houso, Rrahourno Road, 
Calcutta. 

1 

Culender. 


Pakt II] 


TEE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 11, 1962 


• 21 


Sorial Landing Position A/C andKot. No. C.'Noto No. 

No. Date 

Importer s Name and address 

No. of 
Pkgs. 

Description <6 
Goods 

103 

13-1-61 

. 10/4 

. . AP-ABB 61/242 

708687 

.. Messrs. Eastern 1 ' Banker*. P. 
Lid., 13 Brubourne Kuad, 
Calcutta. 

1 

Pr.nted Forms. 

104 

,13-1-61 

. B/l 

.. VT-DJJ 61/249 

2394386 

6 M« sms. Machinery and Che- 
m i-oIk Ltd., r. O. Box 23, 
.Jamshedpur. 

1 

C.ft parcel. 

m 

13-1-61 

. B/l 

. . VT DJJ 61/249 

54536 

’hade Rej .resent at. jon of the 
Czeohoslax ak Socialist Re- 
public, Calcutta Brunch, 
P-38 Mission Row Extons on, 
Calcuttu. 

3 

Caleiuh i . 

100 

14-1-61 . 

. F/l 

.. VH-EAM 61/271 

444906 

J. C. Bose and Sons 

1 

'Hiermomoter. 

107 

15-1-61 . 

. 9/2 

.. GA-NBD 61/297 

8416 

. District Manager, A. J. 1. 
Calcutta. 

1 

An Trn\ el Trail ic 

108 

28-2-61 . 

10/D 

. . GP-PDE 61/320 

986144 

• E. O. A.C. 

1 

(iift ])arei 1. 

i 109 

i 

17-1-61 . 

. 4 ID 

.. VT-DJJ 61/328 

711511 

Messrs. Suraj\a Bros. J*vt. 
Ltd., 35 Ezra Street Calcutta. 

1 

Spun h 

110 

| 

i 

18-1.6 1 . 

. 10/1 

. . G-APDM 61/337. 

175784 

'(’he Managing Drootor Na- 
tional Newsprint and Pulp 
Mills Ltd., No pn mi gar, 

Madhya Pradesh. 

1 

Sulphide. 

111 

23-1-01 . 

H 

. VT DJI 61/387 . 

1777874 

A. 1 . J . ( -aleutta. 

1 

Canned Food. 

112 

21-1-61 . 

F/l 

. YT-DML 61/408 

7345089 

M. 'ssi s. \anety (Adelines) 

Plot 4(»5 Seheine 47, C.l.T. 
Ruyatuln Ln»o, Calouttu-29. 

1 

Wine. 

113 

24-1-61 . 

E 

. \ M-EAM 61/462 

4679840 

B. O. A.C. 

2 


» 14 

24-1 -6J . 

H 

. \ T-C/W 61/479 

7338250 

3 . A. C., Calf ul ta 

1 


110 

26-1-61 . . 

2/3 

. G-APDF 61/619 

307939 

Mnssis. Agenc.x Sen ices 

Pvt. Ltd., P-48 Kluuroo 
Place of Mission Row 

Extension, Calcutta-13. 

1 

Ante R|>n i*« s. 

11 « 

30-1-61 

A/1 . 

. N7 MPA 61/564 

459456 

Mr. Clyoin Hasliimota Pro- 
sklent, C/n. Mr. 1>. \ uli- 

ahinha. General Secret ar\ , 
MalialKxllii .Society, 4 A 

Ban kiln Cliattorjoe Street, 

( Silent tn, India. 

2 

Personal efleets. 

117 

4-2-61 

9/J l 

AP-A2N 61 672. 

706603 

■Miles Paine Ksf|, 28 Flarringh n 
Mansions, 8 Harrington 

Street, ( 'aleutta- 16. 

J 

Newspaper. 

118 

6-2-61 

9/3 . 

. \ H EBE 61/715 

3290 

The Nepal Motor Works, 

1 <arimpa , K at hmundu , 

Nepal. 

1 

( 'atalogues. 

J HI 

9-261 

11/D . 

\ T-J)1F 61/771 

31624 

An India, ( 'ah uttu 

J 

J'erinrlieals, 

120 

9-2-61 

A /l 

. A T-1)AM 61 //7S 

n;,6K4 

kite Maimger, An India 

International, < ale utta. 

1 

Peru 1 efleets. 

121 

10-2 61 

E/1 

\ T-D3J 61 /797 

(,» 4 7. >99 

J > l -4 ri« 1 .Manngt r. Ah India 

J nternut inrial, ( 'ah ntta. 

4 

News pn pei. 

122 

18-4-61 .. 

,i/l 

\ H-EKi; 61 /808 

31 7286 

The Manager, B. <>. A. (., 

( aleutta. 

1 

Belt !«• Whisky . 

123 

16-2-61 .. 

E/1 .. 

\ T liJJ 61/028 

47603 

An India Ink rnul lonnl 

Calcutta. 

3 

New . pa pei 

124 

17-2-61 

16/4 

\T-lJ3K 61; 939 

439332 

The. United Pakistan Mubarak 
Firm Leather Export De- 
partment Kanina, P.O. 

Box. 121, Dacca-2. 

3 

( 'hoineals. 

120 

19-2-61 .. 

9/2 

N706PA 61/993 

641151 

Konsulute-der Burnley Re- 
public Deiilsehiand 59/C 

Chowringliee Road, Calcutta. 

1 

Pei lei In nli . 

126 

19-2-61 .. 

12/1 

N705PA-6 1/993 

325086 

rinporial Chemical Industries, 

1. C. I. House, 34 Chowrin- 
ghee, Calcutta- 1. 

1 

( 'In jnirfi li . 

127 

22-2-61 .. 

FG 

VT-DJX 61/1021 

375660 

Felurjukoaan, 26 Maharaja 
Nanda Kumar Road, Cal- 

1 

Exposed Filmu. 


outta. 



TTTK CAMTTTA OAZETTE. JANUARY 11, 1952 


[Raw H 


22 • 


Serial 

No. 

Landing 

Date. 

Position. 

A/C and Hot. No. 

C/Noto Vo. 

Importer^ name and address. 

NO. of 
packages. 

Description of 
goods. 

128 

2S-2-61 ■ • 

12/2 . . 

D- A HOC 61/1034 

269105 

Em-oMh Ltd., New Asiatic 
Insurance Building, 31 Chow- 
ringhee Road, Calcutta. 

1 

Personal effects. 

129 

22-2-01 . 

. 13/1) 

VH-EBB 61/1053 

328755 

Messrs. Vika Corporation, 71 
( lanning Street, Calcutta. 

1 

Vitamin samples. 

130 

27-2-61 . 

. E/1 

\ T-DJK 61/1083 

37459 

Air Indiu 

1 

Materials. 

131 

25-2-81 .. 

. 15/1 .. 

VT-DJK 01/1109 

977651 

Mr. Sliohel Yoncda Komatsu 
Engineer Croup, C /o Small 
Arms Factory, Kanpur Kalpi 
Road, Kanpur, U. P. 

1 

Canned Food. 

132 

27-2-61 . 

10/11 . . 

V'T-DHM 61/1148 

1464336 

H. O. A. 0., Mr. David Watson, 
C/o M. R. A., P. O. Box 9, 
Calcutta. 

1 

Periodicals. 

133 

28-6-81 . 

. E 

YT D.IC 01/1167 

718166 

Mr. S. B. tJalun, Asiatic Oxygon 
and Aoetyline, Co. Ltd., 

8 Dalhotisio Square East, 
Calcutta. 

1 

Film Out Machine. 

134 

8-3 61 . 

. H 

vr-DJx 6 I/ 128 S 

42469 

Air India International, Cal- 
cutta. 

7 

Spare parts. 

135 

6-3-61 

.6 

VT-D.IX 01 / I *88 

38118 

Bengal Mica Stock Co., 10/4 
Syed Sally Lane, Calcutta. 

1 

Sample. 

138 

8-361 

.1/2 .. 

PIS-DCB 61/1331 

6216095 

Messrs. P, M. D. Plastic Machi- 
nery, CL D. Traders. 

1 

Transformer. 

137 

10-3-61 

.4/4 

VT-DIO 61/1300 

727406 

Myrtle Hopley, Snow Yiew 
Hotel, Lar input Road, 

Kathmmidu, Nepal. 

1 

Magarine. 

138 

11-3 01 

13/1 .. 

O-APDJ 01/1378 

61076 

Atlantis (East) Ltd., 41 Chow- 
riughee Road. Calcutta- 16. 

1 

Samples. 

139 

11-3-61 

. F. <b . . 

fl APUl 01/1378 

1343743 

Mr. M. (Lip la, C/o. ThoCloarmg 
Agents, lor the Government 
of Nopal. 

1 

Cino Films. 

140 

13-3-61 • 

.11/1 .. 

\T-DHM 01/1427 

482393 

Mr. H ohm, C/o. International 
< Jommittee of the Rod Cross, 
P. O. Box 90, Kathmundu, 
Nopal. 

1 

A/e. Spares. 

141 

16-3-61 . 

. 13/3 

LN-MCD 61/1404 

2540171 

Kiiidiistlmn General Electrical 
Corporation Ltd., Thapar 
House, 25 Brubourno Road, 
Calcutta. 

1 

Condenser. 

142 

21-3-61 . 

11 

VX-DJO 61/1078 

772629 

Chartered Bank of India, Cal- 
cutta. 

1 

Cosuly tisue. 

143 

28-3-61 - 

• -Vi 

\ T-DJJ 01/1630 

1701654 

Mr. Fimik Morgan, c/o. V ibitors 
Mail, The United States 
Consulate, Calcutta. C/o. 
Bysaklanding and Supply 
Agency, 28- A Notaji Subhaa 
Road, Calcutta. 

1 

Prmted forms. 

144 

24-3 61 

4/1) 

\ H-EBC 01; 1046 

996007 

Mr. Hugh Harragm, C/ o. 
B. O. A. C., Calcutta. 

1 

Personal affects. 

146 

26-3-61 . 

• 

D/1 .. 

\ TD.IX 61/1047 

4165242 . 

Mr. Frank Magai, (!/u. Byaak 
Landing and Shipping 

Agency, 28 A Netaji Subhas 
Road, Calcutta. 

1 

Periodicals. 

149 

27-3-91 . 

. 11/3 .. 

\ T-DHM 01/1702 

441100 

Remington Rami ol India Ltd., 
3 Council House Street, 
Calcutta. 

1 

Machine parts. 

147 

30-3-01 

1/2 

\ T-U.I.I 61/1706 

441108 

Remington Rand oi India, 
3 Council House Street, 
Calcutta. 

l 

Accounting. 

148 

31-3-91 . 

.6/3 

. \ T-D.ll 61 1 1776 

395962 

B. N. Bose and Co., 8 Waterloo 
Street, 1st Floor, Calcutta. 

l 

Advertising. 


770—1 






(1) 

V) 

(3) 

(4) 

1957 Jauuarv 

08 4 

94*6 

97-0 

April 

190*5 

98*0 

98 9 

July 

106*9 

105*8 

104*1 

October 

.. 107*6 

ll>7 *0 

105 -7 


(fi) 

(6) 

(7) 

(8) 

<•) 

91 *9 

96*2 

90-3 

107 *3 

99 -4 

95 *5 

97 *0 

93-0 

106 *5 

98 *8 

103 *0 

102*7 

100-7 

111*9 

103 *6 

104 *0 

104-0 

102*3 

108-9 

10C -8 


1958 January 

lu5 0 

101 *8 

103 1 

A pril 

1 06 *!) 

103 -i 

104 -4 

July 

n»9 i 

107 -6 

107 *9 

October 

113 *5 

114 3 

111 *2 


1959 January 

lo3*5 

97 2 

1.12-9 

April 

103*8 

100-9 

105-1 

July 

110-4 

108 3 

109 2 

October 

III *6 

116 0 

113 0 


1960 January 

. . 

110*4 

108 -3 

108 *6 

April 

. . 

110*5 

108-0 

108 -9 

July 

. . 

114*4 

113-9 

112*8 

October 

. . 

114-4 

113-5 

113 2 

November 


112-6 

110 2 

111 -4 

Dumber 

, . 

112-1 

109 -3 

110-9 


98-1 

101*8 

95 -4 

106 -0 

98 -2 

100-2 

103 -2 

97 *9 

107 *4 

99 *5 

104 -9 

106-7 

102 -0 

114-7 

106-2 

113-3 

109*3 

108 *5 

116-2 

107 *6 


95 -5 

102 -7 

94 *6 

112*3 

194-0 

99 -4 

104 -6 

98 -2 

111*9 

103 -6 

106-1 

108-1 

104 *0 

116*8 

108 -2 

113 4 

111 6 

111-0 

119-3 

110-5 


106 *3 

107 -5 

103 *2 

118*8 

110-0 

105 -2 

107 -9 

103 *3 

120 *5 

111*6 

111 *6 

111 -5 

109 *6 

124-7 

115-5 

111*8 

112*2 

110 4 

126 -3 

117*0 

108 -4 

110-7 

107 *2 

126 *0 

116*7 

107*4 

110 -1 

107-1 

124-8 

115*6 


1951 January 
February 
March 
April 
May 
June 
July 
August 
September 
October 


Week ending 

25-U-61 
2-12 61 
9-12-61 
16-12-61 
23-12-61 
30-12-61 
6-1-62 


109*7 105 *0 

110 6 106 -1 

110-9 106-1 

112*2 108-2 

112- 1 107*8 

113- 7 110*1 

116- 2 114*1 

117- 9 116*8 

118- 0 116-4 

119*9 119-7 


119* S 119-1 

119-2 118*5 

119*1 118-2 

117*3 114*9 

116*5 113-8 

11 " 1 1112 

115-3 111*6 


108*7 103*2 

109*5 104-3 

109*9 104-6 

111*4 107-2 

111*4 107*0 

112*7 109*1 

115*1 113*2 

116*6 115*7 

116*6 115*1 

118-2 118*2 


118*0 117*6 
117*3 116*6 
117*3 116*4 
115*6 113*0 
114*8 111*7 
113-5 109-3 
113*7 109*6 


108- 4 102*3 

109 -0 103 -3 

109- 5 103 9 

111*0 106*6 

111*0 106*5 

112*1 108*4 

114*2 112*2 

115*5 114 5 

115- 4 113*8 

116- 9 116-7 


116*5 115*9 
115*9 114*7 
116*0 114*8 
114*4 111*5 
113*7 110*3 
112*6 1081 
112*8 108*3 


125- 6 116*3 
126*7 117*3 
127*5 118*1 
126*8 116*6 

126- 3 116*0 
125*9 116*6 
128*7 119*2 
127*4 118*0 
124*6 115*4 
124*4 115-2 


123*2 114*1 


'Revised series (Bane t 1952-61) and the corresponding converted series. 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 11, 1962 


fi 


CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 

Scheme No. LXXV1 (Broad Street to Palm Avenue 
— Tiljala Lane) 

CORRIGENDUM 

In the notice under section 43 of the Calcutta 
Improvement Act, 1911 (Bengal Act V of 1911), in 
regard to Scheme No. LXXVI (Broad Street to 
Palm Avenue — Tiljala Lane), published in the Supple- 
ment to the “Calcutta Gazette”, dated the 28th Sep- 
tember, 5th October and 12th October 1961, on pages 
779-780. 787-789 and 827-828 respectively— 

Add premises No. *17/1/1’ after ‘17/1’ and before 
‘17/2’ under “Broad Street” in the “List of 
municipal premises proposed to be acquired”. 

K. SEN, Chairman. 

!() Netaji Subhas Road, 

Calcutta-1, 

Dated 3rd January 1962. 


The Board of Trustees for the Improvement of 
Calcutta 

NOTICE UNDER SECTION 43 OF THE 
CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT ACT, 1911 
(BENGAL ACT V OF 1911) 

Scheme No. LXXX1 (Muraripukur Road) 

Dated Calcutta, the 16th December 1961. 

1. It is hereby notified under section 43 of the 
Calcutta Improvement Act, that an improvement 
sJieme, namely, Scheme No. LXXXI (Muraripukur 
[Road) for the purpose of rehousing bustee dwellers, 
providing building sites, remedying defective ventila- 
tion, creating new or improving existing means of 
communication and facilities for traffic and afford- 
ing better facilities for conservancy, has been framed 
pv the Board of Trustees for the Improvement of 
Calcutta in an area within Constituency No. 15 of 
the Corporation of Calcutta. 


' - The area comprised within and affected by the 
cheme shown within red verge on the plan has the 
following boundaries: — 

On the North: Starting from a point on the 
eastern boundary of 20 Canal East Road about 
6 ft. 0 inch, on the south from its north- 
eastern corner eastward along the southern 
boundary of No. 18, Canal East Road to its 
south-eastern corner, then eastward north- 
ward and again eastward along the southern, 
eastern and southern boundary of No. 15/ 1C, 
Muraripukur Road to a point on the western 
edge of Muraripukur Road, then eastward in 
a straight line for a distance of 118 ft. across 


Muraripukur Road and Premises No. 35G, 
Muraripukur Road to a point about 137 ft. 
from the south-western corner of 35G Murari- 
pukur Road. 

On the East: From this point southward in a 
straight line for a distance of 532 ft. across 
premises No. 35G, Muraripukur Road, C. C. 
Road and drain, premises Nos. 41 B, 41 C and 
41 D. Muraripukur Road to a point about 
103 ft. from the south-eastern corner of No. 13, 
Muraripukur Road. 

On the South: From this point westward in a 
straight line across 41 D Muraripukur Road, 
Muraripukur Road and then along the south- 
ern boundary of No. 13, Muraripukur Road to 
its south-western corner; then northward 
along the eastern boundary of No. 12, Murari- 
pukur Road to its north-eastern corner. From 
this point westward along the northern boun- 
daries of premises Nos. 12 and 1, Muraripukur 
Road to the north-western corner of the 
latter. From this point, northward, westward, 
southward and then westward along the east- 
ern. northern, western and then northern 
boundaries respectively of premises No. 21, 
Canal East Road to the south-eastern corner 
of premises No. 20, Canal East Road. 

On the West: From this point northward along 
the eastern boundary of premises No. 20, Canal 
East Road to the starting point. 


3. Particulars and other information relating to 
the scheme, a plan of the area comprised in the 
scheme and a statement of land which it is proposed 
to acquire and of the land on which it is proposed 
to levy betterment fee may be inspected at the office 
of the Trust at 10 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, 
between the hours 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. on weekdays 
and between 11 a.m. and 12 noon on Saturdays. 
Copies of the above document will be delivered on 
application and on payment of the following fees:— 


Re. nP. 

Particulars of the scheme and other 
information relating thereto ... 0.25 

Statement of land proposed for acqui- 
sition and for lew of betterment 

‘ ... 0.25 

Pirn of the scheme (area) ... ] ,0p 


4. Ohieiti ons to the scheme will be received up 
to 20th March 1%2. 


5. Under section 6A of the Land Acquisition Act, 
as introduced bv the Schedule to the Calcutta 
Improvement Act, 1911. as amended by West Bengal 
Act XXXII of 1955, the publication of this notice 
shall have the same effect as in the publication of 
the notification under section 4 of the Land Acqui- 
sition Acf 


K. SEN, Chairman. 


6 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 11, 1962 


NOTICE 

It is hcicby notified under section 43 of the 
Calcutta Imprmement Act, 1911, that a Housing 
Accommodation Scheme has been framed by the 
Board ni Trustees lor the Improvement o( Calcutta 
under section ?9A of the Calcutta Improvement Act, 
19! [, (or the connmclion of flats for the Middle 
tnenm. (’-i uir people on two blocks of land lving 
on th_* oi.roshe sides of Gobinda Addv Road in 
Chet la. 


( 2 ) '1 he mva composed in the Scheme is shown 
within i ed verge on the plan. The land (shown 
with n bYie veyge on plan) measuring 1.3 acres, more 
oi !c' in Ward No. 72 of the Corporation of Cal- 
cutta and mote particularly described below is pro- 
posed to b (> acquired under section 35C(i) clause (a) 
ol the Calcutta Improvement Act. 


The bound’ ; es of two blocks of the area compris- 
ed in the said scheme as well as the said land pro- 
posed to be acquired, are as follows: — 

(a) North Block: 

On the North Premises Nos. 18 and 18/1 
Chetla Road. 

On the East Premises Nos. 17/1 Chetla Road 
and 39B Gobinda Addv Road. 

On the South Gobinda Addy Road. 

On the West Premises Nos. 27C, 27 A, 26/ IB, 
26/1 A and 26 Sabjibagan Lane. 


(b) South Block: 

On the North — Gobinda Addy Road. 

On the East — Premises Nos. 15/2A, and 15C 
Chetla Road, 30E and 30D Sabjibagan Lane. 

On the South— Premises Nos. 30C and 30B 
Sabjibagan Lane, Sabjibagan Lane. 

On the West- Premises Nos. 29, 28A and 28B, 
Sabjibagan Lane, Sabjibagan Lane. 

(3) Further particulars of the scheme, a plan show- 
ing the scheme area and a statement of the land 
proposed for acquisition may be inspected at the 
office of the Trust at 10 Netaji Subhas Road, 
Calcutta, between 1 1 a.m. and 3 p.m. on weekdays 
and 11 a.m. and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 

Copies will be available on payment of the follow- 
ing fees: — 

Particulars and other information of the scheme- 
Re. 0.25. 

Plan of the scheme area -Rl. 1.00. 

Statement of land proposed for acquisition- 
Re. 0.25. 

(4) Objections to the scheme will be received up to 
30th March 1962. 

(5) Under section 6A of the Land Acquisition Act, 
as introduced bv the Schedule to the Calcutta 
Improvement Act, 1911, as amended by the West 
Bengal Act XXXII of 1955 the publication of this 
notice shall have the same effect as the publication of 
notification under section 4 of the Land Acquisition 
Act. 

K. SEN, Chairman. 

Calcutta, 

Dated the 21st December 1961. 


Pi intfil mid published by tie Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal; 
at the W\*m Bengal Government Press, Alipore. 


'stored No. C207 


®i !P 


(Ealnflta 



A 21] 


THURSDAY, JANUARY II, 1962 


[SAKA 1883 


PART V — Acts of the Parliament of India assented to by the President and 
Ordinances promulgated by the President 

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 

Ministry of Law 

* 

(Legislative Department) 

The following* Ad of Parliament received the assent of 
the President on the 6th September, PM>0, and is hereby 
published for general information : - 

ACT NO. 29 of 1960 

THE APPROPRIATION (RAILWAYS) NO. 4 ACT, 

mo. 


(6th September, I960.] 

An At t to tmthoruse payment and appropriation of certwm 
further sums from and out of the Consolidated Fund of 
India for the servo e of the financial pear 1960-61 for 
the purposes of Ifaihcays. 

Be it enac ted by Parliament in the Eleventh Year of the 
Republic ot India as follows ; — 

1. This Aet may be railed the Appropriation (Railways) Short title 
No. 4 Art, 1960. 

2. From and out ol the Consolidated Fund of India iMuoorK*. 
there may lie paid and applied sums not exceeding those 30,00,01*0 
specified in column *‘> cd the 1 Schedule amounting in the °ut of tho 
aggregate to the sum of thirty lakh rupees towards defraying 

the several charges which will come in course of payment oflndlir 
during I he financial year 1960-GI, in respect of the services for the 
relating to railways specified in column 2 of the Schedule, financial 

year 

1960 - 61 . 

3. t The sunns authorised to be paid and applied from and Appropria- 
out of the Consolidated Fund u. India by this Act shall be tion * 
appropriated for the service:, and purposes expressed in the 
Schedule in relation to the said year. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 11, 1962 


THE SCHEDULE 
[See sections '£ and 3) 


1 

2 

3 

No. of 
Vote 

Servioes and purpaawi 

Sums not exceeding. 

Voted by 
Parliament 

Charged on 
the Consoli- 
dated Fund 

Total 

16 

Construe tion of New Lines 

Total 

Rb. 

30,00,000 

Rs. 

Rb. 

30,00,000 

30,00,000 


30,00,000 


[Part v 


R. C. S. SARKAR, Secy. 




Pakt VJ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 11, 1962 


3 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
Ministry of Law 
(Legislative Department) 

Tlie following A cl of Parliament received ilie assent, of 
the President on the HMh May, PM>1, and is hereby published 
lor general information: — 

THE SALAR JUNG MUSEUM ACT, 1961 

Anangement ol Serf ions 

CHAPTER I 

PR Kl A Ml NAH V 

Sections — 

1. Short title and romuicneetneiit . 

Duel a rat ion ol Salar dung Museum together wilh 
Salar Jung Library as an institution of national 
importance. 

d. Definitions. 

CHAPTER II 
Salar Juno Mi slum Hoard 
4. Establishment and incorporation of the Hoard. 
f>. Composition ol the Hoard. 

0. Term of ollice. 

7. Temporary absence ol member. 

K. Duty ol Government nominating persons, etc. 
f). Meeting ol the Hoard. 

Hh Temporary association of persons with the Hoard 
for particular purposes. 

11. Authentication of orders and other instruments of 
the Hoard. 

l: 2. Malt of the Hoard. 

Id. Transfer of service of existing employees to the 
Hoard . 

14. Location of museum. 

CHAPTER HI 

Functions ok tiir Hoard 

16. Duties of the Hoard, 
lb. Powers ol the Hoard. 

CHAPTER IV 

Finance, accounts. Audit and k k torts 

17. Vesting ol property. 

15. Grants by Central Go\ eminent to Hie Hoard. 

If). Fund of the Hoard. 

20. Hudgct. 

21. Accounts and audit. 

22. Returns and reports. 


4 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 11, 1962 


[Part V t 


CHAPTER V 
Miscellaneous 

Sections — 

2d. Power of Central Government to issue directions to 
Board. 

24. Delegation of powers? and duties. 

2* r ). Officers and employees of the Board to he public 
servants. 

2 f). Protection of action taken under Act. 

27. Power of Ccnlral Government to make rules. 

28. Power of Board to make regulations. 


THE SCHEDULE. 


I* MIT V] 


THK CALCUTTA GAZETTE. JANUARY 11, 1962 


Act No. 26 of 1961 

THE SALAR JUNC MUSEUM ACT, 1961 

| 15)11. Mi.y, 15)(il.', 

.1// Art to driftirr the Safar J mu; Must uni toi/cthcr with 
> alar Jinn; Lihntri; ut t / ;;dn atmd to hr an mstit ut inn 
of natiuna I nn fun fnin t' and to jirondc for its ad inun.sl i a- 
turn and certain otlui connrct itf muttirs. 

JJk it enacted I> v Parliament in tin* Twelfth Year of (In 1 
Hepuldic ol India as lollows: — 


(Ml A PTKIl I 
Ph mi.imin utY 

1. (1) This Act may he called I Ik* Scalar Jung Museum 
Act, 19(51. 

C2 ) It shall come into torcc on such dale as (In* (Yniral 
(iovernment may, by notification in tin* Oflnial (Jazelte, 
apj)oint. 

2. It is hereby declared that the Salar Jung Museum 
together with the Salar June Library at Hyderabad in the 
State of Andhra Pradesh is an institution ol national 
importance. 


3. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, - 

(a) “Hoard" means the Itnaid established under 

section I ; 

(b) “l liairman" means the ( haiiman ol flic Hoard; 

(r) “fund" means the fund ret erred to in section 19. 

(d) “member" means a member ot the Hoard and 

includes the (Miairman , 

(e) “museum" means the Salar Jung; Museum together 

with the Salar Jung- Library, declared to be an 
nisi it ul ion ol national importance undei this 

Act ; 

(f) “prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under 

this Act ; 

(g) “State ( lovernnieiit " means the ( iovernment ol 

Andhra Pradesh. 


( II APTKH IL 
K:\i.\k Jtm; Moskum Ho\kt> 

4- (1) A\ r i t li effect from such date as the (Vntral 

( lovernnieiit may, by notification in tin* Official (iazePe, 
appoint, (here shall be estaldislied for tiie purposes of this 
Act a Hoard to he known as the Salar Jung Museum Hoard. 

(LM The Hoard shall be a body corporate with the name 
aforesaid, having perpetual succession and a common seal 
with power, subject to the provisions ol this Act, to acquire, 
hold and dispose of property and to contract, and may by 
that name sue and be sued. 


Short title 
and 

commence- 

ment 


Declara- 
tion of 
Salar J ung 
Museum 
togot her 
with Salar 
•tung 
Library 
as an 

institution 
or national 
impor- 
tance. 

Defini- 

tions. 


Kntablirth- 
rnont and 
incorpora- 
tion of the 
Hoard 



THK CALCUTTA CiA/jfiTTK. JANUARY 11, 1962 


[Part y 


( lompoHi- 
tion of t ho 
Board. 


Term of 
ollioo. 


Tempo* 

rary 

abnonco of 
raoralior. 


( d) ft ui wit list a riding 21 n \ tiling contained in sub-section 
(lA, t lie Hoard shall not, except with the* previous approval 
of the ( V rit.ru 1 Government sell or otherwise dispose of any 
article or thing specified in Part J or Part 11 of the 
Schedule. 

5. (1) The Hoard shall consist ol the following persons, 
namely : — 

(a) the Governor ol Andhra Pradesh, c.r-offi no 

( 'hninnnn ; 

(h) the Imerelmy to the ( Jovernmenl ol India in the 
Minisliy niiKTin d with mallei-’ relating to tin* 
mnseuni , c.i - of/icm ; 

(e) the Mayor oi the ( ’orporat ion of Hyderabad, 

c.r-offi no ; 

(d) the Vice-Chancellor of the Osmania University, 

(’'V- officio ; 

u*) Ihe Aeeountaiit-C ieiieral, Andhra Pradesh, c.r-offino; 

(I) a person to he nominaled by tin* Central Govern- 
nieni, who shall he a member of Ihe family of 
th( i lale ftawah >alar dung Hahadur who died on 
the Lhul day of March, P.M-ff ; 

(g) three persons to lie nominated by the Central 

Government who shall as far as possible be 
persons having knowledge- of, and experience in, 
matters relating to Ihe administration of 
museums and libraries; 

(h) two persons to be nominated by the State 

( lovernment. 

(LA hi very nomination under llus section shall take 
effect as soon as it is notified by the Central (lovmiineiii in 
the Official Gazette. 

6 . (1) The term ol otliee ol nominated members shall 
be such as may he prescribed. 

(‘J) Any nominated member may resign bis office by 
giving notice 111 writing to the Central Government, and on 
such resignation being notified b\ the Central Government 
in the Official Gazette, shall he deemed to have vacated 
his office. 

(d) A casual vacancy created by the resignation of a 
nominated member under sub-section (2) or for any other 
reason may be filled by fresh nomination. 

(4) An outgoing member shall be eligible for 

renominalion . 


7, ( 1 ) It any nominated member is by infirmity or 

otherwise rendered temporarily incapable oi carrying out 
his duties or absent on leave or otherwise in circumstances 
not invohing the \aeatmn ol his office, the Central Govern- 
ment or the State Go\ eminent, as tin* east* may be, may 
nominate another person to net in his place during his 
absence. 

(LM No net of tin* Hoard shall lx* invalid merely by 
mason ol — 

la) any varum \ in, or uehet in Hie eonslilution of, the 
Hoard. or 

(Jt) any detect in the nomination ol a person acting as 
a member thereof, or 

(e) any irregularity’ in its procedure not affecting the 
merits of the case. 



|M<T V] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY U, 1962 


7 


8 . (1 ) Before nominating a person to be a member of the 
Board, the Central Government or the State Government, as 
the ease may be, shall satisfy itself that the person will 
have no such financ ial or other interest as is likely to affect 
prejudicially the exercise' or performance by him of his 
functions as a member of the Board, and the Central Govern- 
ment or the State Government, as the* case may be, shall also 
satisfy itsell from time to time with respect to every member 
of the Board nominated by it that he lias no such interest; 
and any person who is or whom the Central Government or 
the State Government, as the case may be, proposes to 
nominate, and who has consented to be, a member of tin* 
Board shall, whenever requested by the Central or State* 
Government so to do, furnish to it such information as that 
Government considers necessary for the performance by it 
of its duties under this sub-section. 

(2) A nominated member who is in any way, directly or 
indirectly, interested in a contract made, or proposed to be 
made, by the Board shall, as soon as possible, after relevant 
circumstances have conn* to his knowledge, disclose the 
nature of li is interest at a meeting of the Board and the 
disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes of the Board 
and the member shall not take any part after tlie disclosure 
in any deliberation or decision of the Board with respect 
to that contract. 

9 . (1) The Board shall meet, at such times and places 
and shall, subject to tlu* provisions of sub-sections (2), (4) 
and (4), observe such rules of procedure in regard to the 
transaction of business at its meetings (including the 
quorum at meetings) as may be provided by regulations 
made under this Act. 

(2) The Chairman or, in bis absence, any member 
chosen bv the members present from among themselves, 
shall preside at a meeting of tilt* Board. 

(4) If any of the member.-? referred to in clauses (b), (c), 
(d) and (e) of section f> is unable to attend anv meeting of 
tin* Board, he may, will) the previous approval of the 
Chairman, authorise any person in writing to do so. 

(4) AH questions at a meeting of Hie Board shall lx* 
decided by a majority of ilie votes of the members present 
and voting and in tlu* cast* of an equality of votes, the 
Chairman or, in his absence, the member presiding shall 
have a second or casting vote. 


10. (1) The Board may associate with itself in niicIi 
manner and for such purposes as may be provided by 
regulations made under this Act. any person whose 
assistance or advice it may desire in performing any of its 
functions under this Act. 

(2) A person associated with i! by ilie Board under sub- 
section (J) for any purpose shall have Hit* right to lake part 
in the discussions of the Board relating to that purpose, 
but shall not by virtue of this section be entitled to vote. 

11 . All orders and decisions of the Board shall be 
authenticated by the signature of the Chairman or any other 
member authorised by the Board in this behalf, and all 
other instruments issued by the Board shall be authenticat- 
ed by the signature of an officer of the Board authorised in 
like manner in this behalf. 

12 . (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), Ha* 
Board may, for the purpose of enabling it efficiently to 
perform its functions under this Act, appoint such number 
of officers and other employees as it may think fit. 


Duty of 
Govern- 
ment nomi- 
nating 
porsonn, 
etc;. 


Mooting of 
tho Board. 


Temporary 
annuci atj on 
of portions 
with tho 
Board for 
particular 
purposes. 


Authenti- 
cation of 
ordertc and 
other uiH- 
trumentH 
of tho 
Board. 


Staff of 
tho Board. 


8 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. JANUARY 11, 1962 


l Part v 


T runnier of 
Borviro of 
existing 
oraployeoH 
to tho 
Hoard. 


Location of 
muoourn. 


DutieB of 
the Hoard. 


Powera of 
the Board. 


Venting of 
property. 


(2) Tin* recruit in cut mid conditions of service of such 
ofli< ers and employees shall be such as may be provided by 
regulations made under this Act. 

13 . Subject to the provision* of this Act, every person 
employed in the museum immediately before the date of 
establishment of the Board shall, on and from such date, 
become an employee of the Board with such designation as 
the Board may determine and shall hold his office or service 
therein by the same tenure, at the same remuneration and 
upon flic same terms and conditions as he would have held 
the same on such date if the Board bad not been established 
and shall continue to do so unless and until bis employment 
in the Hoard is terminated or until such tenure, remunera- 
tion and terms and conditions an* duly altered by the 
Board : 

Provided that the 1 enure, remuneration and terms and 
conditions of service of any such person shall not hi* 
altered to his disadvantage without the previous approval 
of the Central Government. 

14 . The museum shall lx* located at Hyderabad. 

OITA PT HR 111 

Hi' NOTIONS OF THK BoAKI) 

15 . (1) It shall be the general duty ol the Board to 
manage the museum elliciently and to plan, promote, 
organise and implement programmes for the development 
of the museum and to pcrlnrm such other functions as the 
Central Government may, from time to time, assign to the 
Board. 

(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality 
of the foregoing provisions, the Boaid may take such steps 
as it thinks fit — 

(a) for providing for instruction and research in matters 
relating to museums and libraries and fo,r the 
advancement of learning and dissemination of 
knowledge in such matters; and 
(h) to do all such other things as may be necessary for 
the discharge of its functions under this Act. 

16 . ( 1 ) Subject to such conditions and restrictions ns 
the Central Government may think fit. to impose, the Board 
may exercise all such powers as may be necessary or expedient 
for tho purpose of carrying out its duties under this Act. 

(2) Subject to such regulations as ma\ he made by the 
Board in this behnlt, the Board m:i \ , Iron) lime to time, — 
(a) pun base oi otherwise inquire such articles o” 
tilings as may, in tin* opinion of the Board, be 
worthy of preservation in the museum; or 
(hi exchange, sell, or destroy any such article or thing 
as is purchased or acquired under clause (a); or 
(c) lend within India any mtiele or thing specified in 
Part I or Part II oi the Schedule or lend, whether 
within or without India, any such article or 
things as is purchased or acquired under 
clause (nV 

C HA IT HR TV 

Fiwnce, accounts. Audit and uk pouts 

17 . Tin* properties specified in Harts T, Tl and TIT of 
the Schedule, being properties which by virtue of the decree 
passed in C>. No. l‘T of 1PAK on the file of the High Court 
of Andhra Pradesh vested absolutely in the Central Govern- 
ment, shall, on and from the date of the establishment of the 
Board, vest in the Board, 


T j \nT Y] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. JANUARY 11, 1962 


9 


2 of 1034. 


18 . For the pur] him* ol enabling the Hoard In discharge 
its timet ions efficiently under this Act, tin* Central Govern- 
ment may. utter dm* nppi opriation made by Parliaimnt h\ 
law in this behalf, pa\ to the Board in each financial \ear 
such sums of money as that Government considers necessary 
bv way ol grant, loan or otherwise. 


19 . (1) The Board shall maintain a Fund to which 

shall he credited — 

(a) all moneys paid by the Central Government; 

(b) all fees and other charges levied under this Act ; 

(c) all moneys received, by the Board by way of grant, 

gi ft , donation, benefaction, bequest, subscription, 
contribution or transfer; 

(d) all other moneys received by the Board in any 

other manner or from any other source. 

(2) The Board may expend such sums as it thinks fit for 
performing* its functions under this Act. and such sums shall 
he treated as expenditure payable out of tlio Fund. 

(3) A sum of money not exceeding* such amount as may 
he provided by regulations made under this Act. may be 
Kept in current account with any scheduled bank as defined 
in section 2 of I lie "Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 or any 
other bank approved by the Central Government in this 
behalf, but any moneys in excess of that sum shall be 
deposited in the Rosen e Bank of Tndia or with the agents of 
the Reserve Bank ol Tndia or invested in such manner as 
may be approved by the Central Government. 


20 . (If The Hoard shall, by such date in cadi year as 
may he specified by the Central Government., submit to it 
for approval a budget for the next financial year in the form 
specified by it, showing the estimated receipts and expendi- 
ture, and the sums winch wouM he required from the Central 
Government during flu* next financial year. 

(2) If any sum granted by the Central Government 
remains wholly or partly unspent in any financial year, the 
unspent sum may he carried forward to the next, financial 
year and taken into account in determinim** the sum to be 
provided by the Central Government for that year. 

(3) Subject to the provisions of sub-section no sum 
shall he expended by or on behalf of tin* Board unless tlv* 
expenditure is covered by provision in the budget approved 
by the Central Government. 

(4) Subject to such conditions and restrictions as the 
Central Government may think fit to impose, th° Board may 
sanction any renppropriafinn from one head of expenditure 
to another or from a provision made for one purpose to that 
for another purpose. 


21 . (1) The Board sha'l maintain proper accounts and 

other relevant iceords and prepare an annual statement of 
accounts including the balance sheet in such form as may he 
specified, and in accordance with such general directions as 
may he issued h\ tin* Central Government in consultation 
with the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India. 

(2) The accounts of the Board shall be audited annually 
by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of Tndia and anv 
expenditure incurred by him in connection with such audit 
shall be payable by the Board to the Comptroller and Auditor- 
General of India. 


Grants by 
Central 
Govern- 
ment to 
the Board. 


Fund of 
the Board. 


Budgob. 


Accounts 
and audit. 


10 


THE CALCUTTA UAZKTTK, JANUARY 11, 1962 


[Part V 


Koturnfl 

and 

reports. 


Power of 
( 'entrai 
Govern- 
ment to 
iH8Ue direc- 
tions to 
tho Board. 


Delegation 
of powers 
and duties. 


O dicers 
ami 

omployoos 
of the 
Board to 
ho public 
servants. 

Protection 
of action 
taken 
under act. 


Power of 
Central 
Govern- 
ment to 
make 
rules. 


(•{) T!i<* Comptroller and Auditor-General of India and 
a u\ person appointed by li ini in connection with the audit 
of Ihe accounts oi the Hoard shall have the same rights, 
privileges and authority in connection with such audit as 
I he Comptroller and Auditor-General of India has in couuec- 
tion with the audit of Government accounts, and, in parti- 
cular, shall have the r ight to demand the production of 
hooks, accounts, connected vouchers and other documents 
and papers and to inspect, the office of the Board, and the 
museum. 

(4) The accounts of the Board as certified by the 
Comptroller and Auditor-General of India or any oilier person 
appointed by him in tliis behalf, together with the audit 
report thereon, shall he forwarded annually to the Central 
Government. 

22. ( 1 ) The Hoard shall furnish to the Central Govern- 
ment. at such time and in such form and in such manner as 
the Central Government ma\ direct, such returns, statements 
and particulars as the Central Government may from time 
to time require. 

Without prejudice to tho provisions of sub-section ( 1 ), 
the Board shall, as soon as possible after the commencement 
of each financial year, submit to the Central Government 
within such time as may be specified by the Central Govern- 
ment a report giving a true and full account of tho activities 
of the Board during the previous financial year and an 
account of the activities likely to lie undertaken during the 
current financial year. 

CHAPTER V 
M rscKi j.ankops 

23. (I) In the discharge of its functions under this Act, 
the Board shall he hound by such directions on questions of 
policy as the Central Government may give to it from time 
to time: 

Provided that the Board shall be giveu an opportunity 
to express its views before any direction is given under this 
sub-section. 

<‘2) The derision of Ihe Central Government whether a 
question is oim of policy or not shall be final. 

24. The Board may, by general or special order in 
writing, direct that all or any id the powers or duties which 
may lie exen iscd or discharged by it shall, in such circum- 
stances and under such conditions, if any, as may be 
specified in the order, he exercised or discharged also by any 
member, ollicer or employee ot the Board specified in this 
heh a 1 1 in the order. 

25- All officers and emplovees of the Boaid shall, when 
acting or purporting to net in pursuance of the provisions ot 
this Act or of any rule or legulation made thereunder, be 
deemed to be public sen ants within the meaning of section ‘J 1 45 0 f jyGo. 
of tin* 1 ndian Penal ('ode. 

26. No suit, prosecution nr other legal proceeding shall 
lie against the Board or any member, officer or employee oi 
the Board for anything which is in good faith done or 
intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or ot any rule 
or regulation made thereunder. 

27. (It The Central Government may, after consultation 
with the Board, by notification in the Official Gazette, make 
rules to give Gleet to the provisions of this Act. 




Fart V] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 11, 1962 


(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality 
of the foregoing power, such rules may provide lor all or any 
of the following matters, namely: — 

,n) the term oi >lliee of, and the manner of filling rusiiu: 
vacancies among, the members nominated under 
clauses (G, (g) and (h) of sub-section (1) ot 
section f> ; 

(d) the maintenance of minutes of meetings of tin* 
member other than the Chairman; 

(0) the disqualifications tor membership ol the Hoard 

and the procedure to be followed in removing a 
member who is or becomes subject 1o any 
disqualification ; 

(d) the conditions subject to which, ami the mode in 

which, contracts may be entered into by or on 
helm 1 f of the Hoard ; 

(e) the fees to he le\ ied for admission to the museum, 

(1) any other matter wliieh has to be, or ma\ be. 

prescribed. 


(*!) Every rule made under this section shall he laid as 
soon as may be after it is made bet ore each House of 
Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty 
days which may be comprised in one session or in two 
successive sessions, and if before the expiry of the session in 
which ii is so laid or the session immediately following, both 
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both 
Houses agree flint the rule should not be made, the rub 1 
shall thereafter have effect onlv in such modified form or 
be oi no effect, as the case may b<> ; so however that any 
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice 
to 1 lie validity of anything previously done under that rub*. 


28. (U The Hoard may, with the previous approval of 
t he Central Government, by notification in the Official 
Gazette, make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act 
and the rules made thereunder, for enabling it to discharge 
its functions under this Act. 

^2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality 
of the foregoing power, such regulations mav provide for 
all or any of the following matters, namely: — 

(a) the conditions and restrictions subject to which 

articles and things vested in the Hoard may be 
given on loan; 

(b) the recruitment and conditions of service of officers 

and employees of tin* Hoard; 

(<*) the time and place of meetings of the Hoard, Hie 
procedure to be followed in regard to tlr j trausuc. 
tion ot business at such meetings and the quorum 
neoessan for the transaction of business at a 
meeting ; 

(d) the maintenance ol minute* of meetings of the 

Hoard and the transmission of copies thereof to 
the Central Government; 

(e) the appointment of sub-committees, or the association 

of persons by the Hoard, for the purpose of assist- 
ing or advising it in performing its functions under 
this Act ; 

(f) Hie persons by whom, and the manner in which, 

payments, deposits and investments may be made 
on behalf of the Hoard; 

(g) the maximum amount that may be kept in the 

current account ; 

(h) the maintenance of register* and accounts; 


Power of 
Board lo 
make regu- 
lations. 



12 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 11, 1962 


[Part V 


(i) the compilation of catalogues and inventories of the 
books, manuscripts and other articles and things 
in the museum ; 

(.j) the steps to be taken for the preservation of the 
books, manuscripts and other articles and things 
in the museum; 

< k ) ilie general management of the museum; 

(l) the fees to be levied for purposes other than admission 

to the museum; 

(m) any other matter in respect of which provision is, in 

flie opinion of the Board, necessary for the 
performance of its functions under this Act. 

(d) The Central Government may, utter consultation with 
the Board, b\ notification in the Official Gazette, amend, 
vary or rescind any regulation which it has approved; and 
thereupon the regulation shall have* effect accordingly, but 
without prejudice to the exercise of the powers of the Board 
under sub-sections (1) and (2). 

THE SCHEDULE 
(See section 17; 

Part I 

All the antiques, curios, cabinets, works ol art, statues, 
paintings, furniture and all other articles, included in the 
list marked A annexed to tin* compromise petition dated the 
‘Jnd day of December, IboS filed in C.N. No. V\ of lfihS m 
the High Court of Andhra Pradesh, in terms of which a 
decree was passed in that suit on the 5th da.\ of March, 

Part IT 

'flic entire library including books, qutus and manuscripts 
in all languages whether printed or handwritten on paper 
or other material, included in the list marked B annexed to 
the said compromise petition. 


Part III 

The land admeasuring about L’S.-'tOO sq. yds. described aid 
delineated in the plan marked (I annexed to the said 
compromise petition. 


R. C. S. hARKAR, c'ec.v. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 11, 1962 


13 


Paht V] 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
Ministry of Law 

(Legislative Department) 

The following Act of Parliament received the assent of 
the President on the 9th September, 19(»(), and is hereby 
published tor general information : — 

ACT No. 32 OF 1960. 

THE 1 N TER N ATT ( >N A L DEVELOPMENT ASEOCIA- 
' TION (STATUS, IMMUNITIES AND PRIVILEGES) 
ACT, 19(50 

[ r 9tli September, 1900. ] 

An Act to implement the international agreement jar the 
establishment and operation of the International 
Development Association in an far a* it relate s in the 
status, immunities and privileges of that Association % 
and for matters connect ed therewith . 

IL: i! enacted hy Parliament in the Eleventh Year of the 
Republic of India as follows: — 

1. (It This Act may he called the International 
Development Association (Status, Immunities and Privileged 
Act, 1900. 

(12) Tt extends to the whole of India. 

(8) It shall come into force on such date ns the Central 
(lovernmenj may, hy notification in tin 1 Official Gazette, 
appoint. 

2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, — 

(a) “Agreement” means the Agreement for the 
establishment and operation of tin* international 
bodv known as tin* International Development 
Association ; 

(h) “Association” means the International Development 
Association established under the Agreement. 


3. (I) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary 
contained in any other law, tin* provisions of Article VTU of 
the Agreement set out ill the Schedule shall have the force of 
law in India: 

Provided that nothing in section 9 thereof shall he 
construed ns- 

(a) entitling the Association to import into Tndia goods 

free of any duty of customs without any restric- 
tion on their subsequent sale therein; or 

(b) conferring on the Association any exemption from 

duties or taxes which form part of the price of 
goods sold ; or 

(e) conferring on the Association any exemption from 
duties or taxes which are in fact no more than 
charges for services rendered. 

(2) The Ventral Government may, from time to time, 
by notification in the Official Gazette, amend the Schedule 
in conformity with any amendments, duly made and adopted, 
of the provisions of the Agreement set out therein. 

4. The Central Government may, by notification in the 
Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the purposes 
of this Act. 


Short title, 
extent and 
commence- 
ment. 


Definitions. 


Conte i men t 
of status 
and certain 
immunities 
and privile- 
ges on tk« 
Association 
and confer- 
ment of 
cortuifi 
immunities 
and privile- 
ges on its 
otlieers and 
employees. 


Tower to 
make rules. 


14 


the (ALCTTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 11, 1962 


(Part V 


Xol idea- 
tions uixJor 
Hoct ion 
mkJ rules 
umloi hc^‘- 
1 ion I to 
be placed 
before Par- 
liament. 


5. Every not ificution issued under sub-section (2) of see- 
linn d and every rule made under seel ion 4 shall be laid as 
snnn as ma\ be alter it is issued or made before eaeh Rouse 
ol Parliament while it is in session for a period ot thirty 
da\s v\ 1 1 1 < • 1 1 may be enmprised in one session or in two 
sueeo'-sive sessions and it betoie the expiry of llie session in 
" 1 1 1 ( I J P Is sn laid oi tlie session immediately following- 
both Houses agree* lor making any modifieatinn in the noti- 
tieation, or as tin* eas * may he, in the rule, or hot li Houses 
a^ree that the notification or rule should not be issued or 
made, the notification or rule shall thereafter have effect 
only in such modified form or be of no effort, as the case mav 
be, so however, that an\ such modification or annulment 
shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything 
previously done under that notification or rule. 


Til K sniERrLE 

(See section d) 

Provisions of the agreement whieh shall have force of law 

Alt! I RLE VIII 

Si vn s, Immimtiks and Pujviuwks 
Sr 1 tion i. — Purposes of Article . 

To enable the Association to fulfil the functions with 
which it is entrusted, the status, immunities mid privileges 
provided in this Article shall be accorded to the -Association 
in the territories of each member. 

Section 2.— Status of the Association . 

The Association shall possess full juridical personality 
and, in particular, the capacity: 

( /) to contract ; 

(it) to inquire and dispose of immovable and movable 
property ; 

iiii) to institute* legal proceedings. 

Section d. — Position of the Association with regard to 


Judicial Process. 

Actions may be brought against the Association only in 
courl of competent jurisdiction in the territories of a member 
in which tin* Association lias nn office, has appointed an 
agent for the purpose of accepting service or notice* of 
process, or has issued or guaranteed securities. No actions 
shall, however, be brought by members or persons acting 
tor ot deriving claims from members. The property and 
assets of tin* Association shall, wheresoever located and by 
whomsoever litdd, be immune from alt forms of seizure, 
attachment or execution before the delivery of final judgment 
against the Association. 


Section 4 . — Immunity of Assets from Seizure. 

Property and assets of the Association, wherever located 
and by whomsoever held, shall be immune from search, 
requisition, confiscation, expropriation or any other form of 
seizure by executive or legislative action. 


Section 5 . — Immunity <>4 Archives. 

The archives of the Association shall be inviolable. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 11, 1962 


15 


JMtT V] 


Section G. — Freedom of Assets from Restrictions . 

To the extent necessary to carry out the operation* 
provided for in this Agreement and subject to the provisions 
of this Agreement, all property and assets of the Association 
shall be free from restrictions, regulations, controls and 
morntoria of any nature. 

Serf ion 7 . — Pririlcqv for C omm uni cat ions. 

Tin 1 official communications of the Associations shall be 
accorded by each member the same treatment that it accords 
to the official communications of other members. 

Section 8. — / immunities and V ncilcf/rs of Officers and 

E m }d ouccs. 

All Governors, Executive Directors, Alternates, Officers 
and employees of the Association, 

li) shall be immune from legal process with respert to 
acts performed by them in their official rapacity 
except when the Association waives this 
immunity ; 

(li) not being local nationals, shall lie accorded the same 
immunities from immigration restrictions, alien 
registration requirements and national service 
obligations and the same facilities as regards 
exchange restrictions as arc accorded by members 
to the representatives, officials and employees of 
comparable rank of other members; 

m) shall be granted the same treatment in respect of 
travelling facilities as is accorded by members to 
representatives, officials and employees of 
comparable rank of other members. 

Section f ). — 1 mm unities from Ta.ral ion . 

i a ) The Association, its assets, property, income and 
transactions authorized by this Agreement, shall he immune 
from nil taxation and from all customs duties. The 
Association shall also be immune from liability for the 
collection or payment of any tax or duty. 

(h) Xo tax shall be levied on or in respect of salaries and 
emoluments paid by the Association to Executive Directors, 
Alternates, officials or employees of the Association who are 
not local citizens, local subjects, or other local nationals. 

(c) Xo taxation of any kind shall be levied on any 
obligation or security issued by the Association (including 
any dividend or interest thereon) by whomsoever held. 

(i) which discriminates against sin li obligation or 
security solely because it is issued by the Associa- 
tion ; or 

fii) if t,he sole jurisdictional basis tnr such taxation is 
the place or currency in which it is issued, made 
payable or paid, or the location of nn\ office or 
place of business maintained by the Association. 

(VI) Xo taxation of any kind shall be levied on any 
obligation or security guaranteed by the Association 
(including any dividend or interest thereon) by whomsoever 
held, 

(i) which discriminates against Mich obligation or 

security solely because it is guaranteed by the 
Association; or 

(ii) if the sole jurisdictional basis for such taxation is 
the location of nny office or place of business 
maintained by the Association. 


R. 0. S. SARKAR, Secy. 


Hi- 


Til K ( A LCCTTA GAZETTE. JANUARY 11, 1962 


[Part \ 


Short title. 


Uepeal of 
Tripura 
State 
Municipal 

Act. 


Savings. 


Bengal Act 
XV of 1932 


2 of 1349 
T.E. 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
Ministry of Law 
(Legislative Department) 

The lollowing A< t of Parliament received the absent of 
the President on the 9th September 1960, and is hereby 
published for general information: — 

ACT NO. 31 OF 1960. 

THE TRIE ERA MUMCIBAL PAW (REPEAL) ACT, 

1960. 

[9th September, i960.] 

An Art to pro rule Jor the tv. pad of the municipal laic in 
Joicc in the I'm on territory of Tripura . 

lh% it enacted by Parliament in the Eleventh Year of the 
Republic ol India as iollows: — 

1. This Act may be called the Tripura Municipal Law 
(Repeal) Act, I960. 

2. On and Irom the date on which the Bengal Municipal 
Act, 1962, is extended by notification under section 2 ol the 
ITiion Territories (Laws) Act, 1950, to the Union territory 
ol Tripura, the Tripura Mate Municipal Act, 1649 T . E . , 
shall stand repealed. 

3. (1) The repeal ol the Tripura State Municipal Act, 
1619 T.E., by section 2 shall not affect — 

(a) it he previous operation of that Act or anything duly 
done or suffered thereunder, 

(l)) any right, piivilege, obligation or liablity acquired, 
accrued or incurred under that Act, 

k ) any penalty, torleitnre or punishment incurred in 
respect ol any offence committed against that Act, 
or 

<dj any in\ estimation, legal proceeding* or remedy in 
respect ol any such right, priulege, obligation, 
liability, penalty, torfeiture or punishment as 
aloresanl. 

and an\ ^ueh in\est igation, legal proceeding or remedy may 
be instituted, (unturned or enforced and any such penalty, 
loiefeituie oi pu n iHi meiit may he imposed as if that Act had 
not been icpcalcd. 

(2) Subject to 1 lit' provisions contained in sub-section >1), 
anything done or any action taken (including any 
municipality < mN it tiled, appointment or delegation made, 
notification, instruct ion or direction issued, form, bye-la *v 
nr scheme trained, certificate obtained, permit or licence 
granted oi regisl i ai iou effected, or order ol supersession 
issued) undci the A< t repealed by section 2 shall be deemed 
to have been done ni taken under the corresponding provision 
ol the Bengal Mum ipal AH, J962. extended by notification 
as provided in that ection to the Union territory ot Tripura, 
and shall continue to he in force accordingly unless and until 
superseded by an\th,ug done or any action taken under the 
Act so extended. 

(6) No’* w ithHamtiug the repeal by section 2 of the Tripura 
State Municipal Act, 1649 T.E., the Thief Commissioner 
may, with Hie approval of the Central Government, direct, 
by notification in the Tripura Gazette, whether prospectively 
nr i etroNpeHh ely. that any of the taxes leviable under the 
repealed Act shall rnntiniie to be levied for such time and 
under such conditions as may be specified in the notification, 
and on the issue nf any such notification, the provisions of 
the repealed Act, m so far as they relate to the assessment 
levy, collection and leeovery of such tax and to matters inci- 
dental thereto, shall apply in relation to the tax so continued 
as i{ the said provisions had not been repealed. 

R. C. S. SARKAR, Secy. 


Bengal Act 
XlPbf 1932. 
30 of 1950. 

2 of 1349 
T.E. 

2 of 1349 
T.E. 


Registered No. C207 


No. 3 of 1962 


(Utp 






PAUSA 28 ] 

THURSDAY, JANUARY 18, 1962 



( S \ h A 1883 


CONTENTS: 

Bage. 




8tate Statist ir*l Bureau— Cost of living Indexes, 
Calcutta, and wholesale price index 

for the week ending the 13th January 

1962 

7—8 




Calcutta Improvement Trust— Notioos 

9 — 10 




Corporation of Calcutta — Notico 

10 






SUPPLEMENT— < »f final Paper. 

Issue No. 291 STATE STATISTICAL BUREAU, WEST BENGAL 

TABLE I 

Cost of living indaxes, Calcutta and wholesale price index (week ending 13th January 1962) 

Ali-Indm wholesale 

Cost of living index — Bas« : November, 1950. price index 41 . 

/ — " A " — ■ — * — ■ — • — • — > — — — - — — t t — — - — * — - — - A - 


Period. 



Expenditure level (in Its.) 

- - - -A— 



Butv , 
1052-53. 

Converted 

with 

.November 


1—100 

A - 


1 01 — 200 

201 — 

. . A 

-350 


f 

All 

item*. 

Food. 

^ All Food? 

items. 

( 

All 
i terns. 

Food. 


1 05v> as 
btiM . 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

<+) (5) 

(6) 

a) 

(») 

(6) 

i»54 January 

93*9 

88*8 

94*1 88*4 

91*7 

88* C 



Apnl 

05*2 

90*4 

95 • 6 90*1 

95 • 2 

00-1 

. . 


J uly « 

. 94*0 

89*4 

94*4 89 *5 

94*7 

80*6 



Gotober 

06*3 

61*6 

95*3 91*4 

95-5 

91*3 


* 

''••jf* January 

00*7 

84*7 

91*1 84*4 

91*7 

84*5 



April 

80*0 

83*0 

00 *6 83*7 

91 *2 

84*0 

88*0 

82*3 

July 

91*1 

85*6 

91*6 86-8 

02*0 

85*8 

02*9 

86*0 

UoLobor 

03-7 

89*7 

03*0 80*4 

94*0 

88*0 

00*6 

88*0 

t6 8 January 

90*9 

84*8 

01*0 84*0 

01*2 

83*7 

06*3 

86*3 

April 

96«2 

01*6 

94*8 90*4 

04*6 

89*6 

. 100*0 

92*6 

July 

99*6 

08*0 

98*7 06*3 

97*8 

04*7 

108*6 

06*6 

October 

102*4 

101*3 

100*7 08*0 

00*4 

06*9 

106*7 

98*8 


•Revised aeries (Bee# : 1962-63) end the corresponding converted stria*. 




8 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


All-India wLuicmaio 

Ooec of living index — T3n*i- - November, i960. P r * 1 ’^ i'ulex 

- — — < 


Period. 



Expenditure level (in Be.) 


Base, 

1902-53. 

Converted 

with 


1—100 

J 01— 200 

201— 3S0 
( * 


November 
1960 o« 


Air 

items. 

* 1 1 

Food. 

All I'ood. 

item*. 

All Food. 

iLcmM. 


base. 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) (5) 

(«) (’) 

(8) 

(») 


1867 J ternary . . 98*4 

April .. JW-5 

July .. 106*0 

Motober . • 10 1 *6 


94 G 

97 0 

91 

*9 

98 0 

98*9 

95 

•5 

106 *8 

1()4 *1 

103 

•0 

IJ7-0 

106 -7 

1<I4 

•0 


96 -2 

90 *3 

107 *3 

99 *4 

97 0 

93*0 

106 5 

!»S *fj 

102-7 

100-7 

111*9 

P>3 H 

104 -C 

101-3 

108-9 

lo; s 


1968 January 

. . 

1»j5 *0 

101 -S 

iu3 1 

A pril 

. . 

106 0 

103-1 

104-4 

July 

. . 

109 -4 

107 -6 

107 -9 


. . 

113 3 

114 3 

j ! 1 1? 


98-1 

101 *8 

95 *4 

1 06 -o 

2 

100 -2 

103 *2 

97 -9 

i 07 -4 

99-5 

104 -9 

106-7 

102 *l> 

114-7 

100 *2 

113-3 

109*3 

108 -5 

1 16 -2 

io:-» 


1969 January 
Apm 
July 
Oc to tier 


103-5 

97 -2 

102 9 

95 6 

i 05 8 

lui-0 

106 1 

99 4 

no -4 

108 -3 

10ft 2 

196-1 

i 14 -8 

116*0 

113-0 

113 -4 


102 7 

94 -G 

112 -.7 

1C*4 -0 

104 6 

98 -2 

111 -9 

103 -Ij 

108-1 

104 -0 

116-8 

10S-" 

111 -C 

111 0 

119-3 

* llO-.i 


191)0 January 
April 
July 
Oct >» er 
November 
D* number 


1901 Ja-.uarv 
February 
March 
April 
May 
June 
J illy 
August 
SepJ-emlior 
Ootolior 
Novorulior 


i 10 -4 

108-3 

108 -6 

i or> *3 

no -6 

108-0 

108 *9 

106 -2 

U4 4 

113 -9 

112*8 

ill -6 

114 4 

11' -5 

1 13 -2 

ill -8 

112 6 

i :o -2 

Ml 4 

IDH -4 

H2 1 

109 -3 

no o 

107 *4 


pn 7 

Pi 5 0 

108-7 

i »3 -2 

110 6 

106 A 

109-6 

il l *3 

Hu -9 

106 1 

lol) -9 

! i»4 -6 

112-2 

108-2 

111*4 

107-2 

112*1 

107-8 

111-4 

107 -0 

113-7 

110-1 

112-7 

109-1 

116-2 

114-1 

116- 1 

113-2 

117 9 

110-8 

116 6 

116-7 

J1S-0 

116-4 

116-6 

115-1 

119-9 

119-7 

118-2 

118-2 

120-3 

120-4 

118 4 

118-4 


107 -6 

103 *2 

118-8 

» 1 U -0 

107-9 

103 *3 

120-6 

111 6 

111 *5 

109 d 

124-7 

115*5 

112-2 

l 1 A A 

120 3 

117*9 

lh)-7 

107-2 

126 -0 

115*7 

110-1. 

1U7-1 

124-8 

116 -li 


108 4 

102 3 

125-6 

lie-:; 

109 -0 

P'3 3 

126*7 

1X7-3 

1 09 -6 

103 9 

127-6 

118-1 

111-0 

106-6 

125*8 p 

116-5 

111*0 

106 <6 

126-3 

116-0 

112-1 

108-4 

125-9 

1J6-6 

m-2 

112-2 

12S-7 

119-2 

115 6 

114 5 

127*4 

118-0 

115-4 

113-8 

124-6 

’ 115-4 

116-9 

116-7 

124-4 

115-2 

1 16 9 

116 6 

124 2 

116 0 


Weak ond.ru. 

10-12-01 

117-3 

114*9 

11 -6 

113-0 

114-4 

111-6 

122-8 

113-7 

23-12-01 »• • 

116-6 

113-8 

114-8 

111-7 

113-7 

110-3 


. ■ 

*>-12-61 

11-W 

111-2 

113-6 

109-3 

112-6 

108-1 



0.1*92 

115*3 

111-6 

113-7 

109-6 

112-8 

108-3 

, . 


13-1-82 

114-6 

liO-5 

113-0 

108-4 

112*3 

I07-S 




•Revised eerie* (Base: l 962-63 > onrl the oorregjKmduur converted eerie*. 



9 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA* GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


< -r- = = a = =s= = — : 

CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 
NOTICE 

It is hereby notified under section 43 of the 
Calcutta Improvement Act, 1911, that a Housing 
[Accommodation Scheme has been framed by the 
goard of Trustees for the Improvement of Calcutta 
under section 39A of the Calcutta Improvement Act, 
1911 , lor the construction of fiats tor the Middle 
ln;oine Group people on two blocks of land lying 
on the opposite sides of Gobinda Addy Road in 
Chetla. 

(2) The area comprised in the Scheme is shown 
within red verge on the plan. The land (shown 
within blue verge on plan) measuring 1.3 acres, more 
ar less, in Ward No. 72 of the Corporation of Cal- 
cutta and more particularly described below is pro- 
posed to be acquired under section 35C(i) clause (a) 
of the Calcutta Improvement Act. 

The boundaries of two blocks of the area compris- 
ed in the said scheme as well as the said land pro- 
posed to be acquired, arc as follows: — 

(a) North Block: 

On the North— Premises Nos. 18 and 18/1 
Chetla Road. 

On the East — Premises Nos. 17/1 Chetla Road 
and 39B Gobinda Addy Road. 

On the South— Gobinda Addy Road. 

On the West Piemises Nos. 27C, 27 A, 26 /IB, 
26/1 A and 26 Sabjibagan Lane. 

th/ South Block: 

On the North Gobinda Addy Road. 

On the East Premises Nos. 15/ 2 A, and 15C 
Chetla Road, 30E and 30D Sabjibagan Lane. 

On 1 he South— Premises Nos. 30C and 30B 
Sabjibagan Lane, Sabjibagan Lane. 

0’ die West - Premises Nos. 29, 28A and 28B, 
Sabjibagan Lane, Sabjibagan Lane. 

U) ! urther particulars of the scheme, a plan show- 
's • !<>* scheme area and a staiement of the land 
■ ts.v.s] lor acquisition may be inspected at the 
l‘- M the Trust at 10 Netaji Subhas Road, 

il 'eu.ia, between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. on weekdays 
U II a.m. and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 

Cnpics will be available on payment of the follow- 

1 Kes: 

Particulars and other information of the scheme — 
Re. 0.25. 

P-’n of the scheme area - Rc. 1.00. 

Statement of land proposed for acquisition — 
Re. 0.25. 

'4) Objections to the scheme will be received up to 
* March 1962. 

0 Under section 6A of the Land Acquisition Act, 
introduced bv the Schedule to the Calcutta 
provement Act, 1911, as amended by the West 
UUl Act XXXII of 1955 the publication of this 
!?-' shall have the same effect as the publication of 
nication under section 4 of the Land Acquisition 

^ K. SEN, Chairman. 

Calcutta, ’ 

tod th- 21st December 1961. 


Notice under section 43 of the Calcutta Improve- 
ment Act, 1911 (Bengal Act V of 1911), as 
modified up to 1st June 1956 

1. It is hereby notified under section 43 of the 
Calcutta Improvement Act, that a General Improve- 
ment Scheme has been framed by the Board of 
Trustees for the Improvement of Calcutta for the 
purpose of provision of building sites particularly 
lor the reinstatement of owner-occupiers of houses 
acquired by the Trust and for construction of tene- 
ments with ancillaries for the rehousing of persons 
dwelling in bustees, who may be displaced from 
such bustees by this or other Improvement Schemes 
of the Trust to be hereafter known as Scheme 
No. LXXXIII, on Hossain Shah Road and Deby 
Choudhury Road at Kidderpore within the Ward No. 
73 of the Corporation of Calcutta. 

2. The area comprised in the scheme is shown 
within red verge on the plan. The land (shown 
within blue verge on plan) measuring 6.66 acres more 
or less (excluding a musjid) in Ward No. 73 of the 
Corporation of Calcutta and more particularly 
described below is proposed to be acquired under 
section 35C(l) clause (a) of the Calcutta Improve- 
ment Act 

The boundary of the area comprised in the said 
scheme as well as the land proposed to be acquired 
arc a:, follows: — - 

On the North: Starting from the north-western 
corner of Premises No. 45, Hossain Shah Road 
running eastwards along the southern edge of 
Hossain Shall Road to the north-western corner 
of No. 9C, Hossain Shah Road, then running 
southwards along the western boundaries of 
Nos. 9C and 9B, Hossain Shah Road (musjid) 
and 7. Hossain Shah Road and (hen eastwards 
along the southern boundary of No. 7. Hossain 
Shah Road to the south-eastern corner of No. 7, 
Hossain Shah Road, then running southwards 
along the western edge of the C. C. dram run- 
ning bv .he west of No. 5, Hossain Shah Road 
for a distance of 18 ft., then eastwards across 
the 'J d drain *.nd along the southern boundaries 
of Nos. 5 and 3, Hossain Shah Road to the south- 
eastern corner of No. 3, Hossain Shah Road. 

On the East: From this point running south- 
wards along the western boundary of the 
Calcutta Corporation Children’s playground at 
the junction of Hossain Shah Road and Deby 
Choudhurv Road and the western boundaries of 
N'-s. 12A, 12B and NB Deby Choudhurv Road 
to the south-western corner of No. 14B, Deby 
Choudhury Road, then eastwards along *the 
southern boundary of No. 14B, Deby Choudhurv 
Road for a distance of 13ft. to the western end 
of the common passage running by the south of 
Nos. 14A and 14B, Deby Choudhury Road, then 
running southwards along the -western end of 
the said common passage and the western boun- 
dary of No. 16B, Deby Choudhury Road to the 
south-western corner of No. 16B. Debv 
Choudhury Road, then running eastwards along 
the southern boundaries of Nos. 16B and 16 A. 
Deby Choudhurv Road to the south-eastern 
corner of No. 16A. Deby Choudhurv Road, then 
running southwards along the western edge of 
Deby Choudhury Road for a distance of 106 ft. 



10 


SURE LEM ENT TO TlfE CALCUTTA 


Vo a point on tha eastern boundary of No. 20, 
Deby Choudhury Road, then running westwards 
across Nos. 20, Deby Choudhury Road and along 
the northern boundary of No. 22, Deby 
Choudhury Road, lor a distance of 120 ft. to a 
point on the northern boundary of No. 22, Deby 
Choudhury Road, then running southwards 
across No 22, Deby Choudhury Rond to a point 
on the southern boundary of 22, Deby 
Choudhury Road, situated at a distance of 
103 ft. iron its south-western corner. 

On the South: From this point running west- 
wards. then southwards, again westwards, then 
northwards and again westwards along the 
northern boundary wall of Remount Road staff 
colony of Commissioners for the Port of 
Calcutta to the south-western corner of No. 2A, 
Ismail Ostagar Lane. 

On the West: From this point running north- 
wards along the eastern edge of Ismail Ostagar 
Lane to the starling point. 


GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


J# 

Ol Chapter XIX oi the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1951 
n accordance with the provisions under section 342 
(j )i n modi I jcm lion of the existing rules:-- 

•■The candidate #plving for drainage license should 
deposit me pi esci ibed ice on or before the duo 
Along with the application he must— 

(a) enclose a c. titicate from a licensed pluiubei 

ci u t mg :iu. the candidate has received* 
pmcitcii' Paining under the licence 
plum lx* 1 ' i*’i a period not less than {} lret 
years: 

(b) enclose three copies of his photo of passport 

size. 

The candidate^ aie required to sit for a wrip^j 
1 summation to be held in the Municipal (Mice oi 
Ihe date and nine as will be notified belore. ’fUe 
u,nd idales wdl I >■ examined in respect of the iolkw- 

mg: - 

(ij Preparation >f Plans and Estimates for house 
drainage works. 


Particulars of the Scheme, a plan showing the 
scheme area and a statement of lands proposed for 
acquisition may be inspected at the office of the 
Trust at No. 10, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, 
between the hours 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. on weeic days 
and between hours 11 a.m. and 12-30 p.m. on Satur- 
days. 

3. Copies will be available on payment of the 
following fees:-- 

Paiticulars and other information of the scheme 
- -Re. 0.23 nP. 

Plan of the sehcm» Re. 1.00 nP. 

Statement of lands proposed for acquisition- 
Re. 0.25 nP. 

4 . Objections to the scheme will be received up 
to 10th April 1962. 

3. Under section 6 A of the Land Acquisition Act, 
as introduced by the Schedule to the Calcutta 
Improvement Act, 1911, as amended by the West 
Bengal Act XXXII of 1955, the publication of this 
notice shad ha\e the same effect as the publication 
of notification under section 4 of Land Acquisition 
Act. 

K. SEN, 
Chairman. 

Calcutta, the 2nd January 1962. 


CORPORATION OF CALCUTTA 

NOTICE 

The Corporation of Calcutta at their meeting held 
on the 28th July 1961, adopted the following rules 
framed under section 343 of the Calcutta Municipal 
Act, 1951, for Examination of Plumbers for granting 
Drainage License to act as a Plumber for the purpose 


(ii) Procedure (or obtaining sanction of a iiousu 
drainage plan from the Corporation. 

( ui) Execution ff house drainage works in 

accordance with the provisions of the 
Municipal Act, 1951, and the rules and 
bye laws made thereunder in respect of; 

U) setting nvi < id laying S. W. Pipe Sewers lor 
house drainage; 

(b) construction ot underground chambers aid 

their connections; 

(c) house drainage connection with public 

sewers (pipe sewer and brick sewei); 

(d) ventilation T house drainage. 

(e) use of vuiious kinds of traps, syphon* 

guilds and other adjuncts of hoiw 
drainage: 

(f) use of different classes of pipes and special* 

in house drainage works; 

(g) u:e of ai tides and fittings required in con- 

nection with privies and urinals, bathing 
and washing places; 

(li) trench cutting, shoring and precautionary 
measures to avoid damages to others' 
properties; 

(i) removal of chokages in house drainage; 

(j) septic tank with its connection fittings an 

disposal; 

(k) plan and sections of privy, urinals, septi 

tanks, cesspools, master traps, pits 
sew 7 erJine with all adjuncts of hou< 
drainage W'orks.” 

B. GHOSH, 

Secretary to the Corporate 
Dated, Calcutta the 28th December 1961. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at the West Bengal Government Press, Alipore. 



fitgisttfvd No. C207 



(Halattta 





(jferttr 


PAUSA28] THURSDAY, JANUARY 18, 1962 [ SAKA 1883 


PART II— Advertisements, Notices 


iproosdure regarding sanding Manuscripts for publication of Advertisements, Notices, etc.. In the 
' ^Calcutta Gazette 9 ' (Part il). 

1. Manuscripts should be properly edited and complete in itself. 

. 2. Manuscripts should always he typewritten on one side of the paper. The name of signatory should be typewritten 

[below the signature. 

I 3 . Manuscripts intended for advertisement in the next issue of “Calcutta Gazette” shall he received by Publication Sales 
Office ef New Secretariat Buildings, 1 Hastings Street, Calcutta, up to 3-30 p. m. on Friday and at Hoad Office at Alipore up to 

II s. m. on Saturday. 

4 . All costs shall be paid in advance and deposited along with the manuscripts. 

5 . Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING (PUBLICATION 
BRANCH), WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRES 8 . ALIPORE. 

The press shall n ot be held responsible for delay in publication of any ad vertisement due to the non-ooservance of the 
[iMtrMctiont detailed above. -*»~*«**»«*^^ - 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 


Advertisement No. 2 

APPLICATIONS are invited tor undermentioned posts 
li otu Indian citizens and persons of Indian origin 
tmgruti-il tiom Pakistan with intention of permanently 
settling in India or subjects oi Nepal, Sikkim or former 
trench / Pui tugue.se possessions in India. Age limits 
reiaxable for Government servants exoept where otherwise 
specified. Ppper age limits reluxable by 5 years for 
vlieduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes candidates. No 
ie!axwtii/ii tor others, save in exceptional circumstances, 
i'li' 1 will m no case be relaxed beyond three years. 

Qualifications reiaxable at Commission's discretion ki case 
Df candidates otherwise well qualified. Particulars and 
^'plication tonus obtainable from Secretary, Union Public 
Commission, Post Box No. 180, New Delhi. 

• wiliest t oi lerrnis must specify name of post and should 
1,1 a« (umpained b\ sell addressed unstamped envelope lor 
a '' 1 l M)st ;, t least o* size 9"x4" indicating thereon name 
1m which forms are required. Closing dale tor 
u r#M l, °J application with treasury receipt or crossed Indian 
()r ! lp| , 1(i r R«. 7.50 nP. (1.87 nP. tor Scheduled 
IV ’ 1 " f I n!‘ hcdnler l Trmns > the 12th February 1<X>L> (2«1h 
1I ‘J. 11 f 1 ,v ' (, *r , * Cfv applicants from abroad). Separate 
i'I '" n tri ^ 1 ^ pa rate fee required for each post. 
a V s , , roa , d ma ? a PPl. v nn plain paper if forms are 
[t i f an ^ ■ tlepnsit fee with local Indian Fnihassv. 

* 4 andidates must appear for personal inlerview. 

Mandicraf , A ,a 5L l i ire . otor . <Ex P° rt Promotion),* All India 
Fist tiMinl. 8 Ministry of Commerce and Industry. 

hf-iriir 0(in ..i ' l ]?\ I'koly to Continue. Other things 
Fay:_n.. ’ 7 n !. ° f , Cnsies /Tribes candidate preferred. 

m -dOO, -4/i0 — :U)- -<>00— -35 870 K. B. - 35- 


Huihrr ii 


nrt»d rjl „ f i i 1 ” 1 J lav *«» specially qualified and ex peri 

ions-, Essential!! r\ A T)° ! ^ ■ vo ? rs nnd below. Quallfica- 
-) Degree of recognised University, 


(u) About three years’ experience of export work for 
organisation oi sales work and business management in 
responsible capacity under Government or in a business 
house of standing. 

2 . Four Senior Scientific Officers, Grade II, Researoh and 
Development Organisation, Ministry of Defence. Poets 

temporary but likely to continue and be retained on perma- 
nent basis. One post reserved for Scheduled Castes candi- 
dates; if no such suitable candidate available, all the 
posts will be treated as unresen ed. Pay: — Its. 401) — 40— 
8(10 — AO — 950. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidates. Age: — Preferably below 40 years. 
Qualifications: Essential— For two posts* (n At least 
second class Degree in Tele-communication Engineering, 
Or, in Fleet ncal Engineering with Tele-communication m a 
special subject, Or Second Class Master’s Degree in Physic# 
with Wireless or Fleet ionics as a special subject, or Degree 
in Instillment Technology, (ii) About three years’ experi- 
ence in design, development, manufacture, specification 
testing of instruments both electrical and electronics. 
For two posts: (i) Dovtoiate or First Class Master’# 
degree in Physical Chemistry of a recognised University 
with specialisation m Thermodynamics, (ii) Kesca-rch work 
oi high quality for about 3 years and ability to guide 
research. 

4 . On# Lecturer in Bacteriology, Medical College, 
Pondicherry, Directorate General of Health Servioes. Post 
lempornry hut likely to continue. Pay: — Its. 530 — 30 — 650 
plus nou-praeti ^uig allowance oi -5 per cent, ot pay subject 
to a minimum oi Rs. 150 per month. Private practice of 
am* kind Will not he allowed. Higher initial pay to speci- 
ally qualified and experienced candidate. Age: — Below 15 
years. Qualifications: Essential- (|) A Medical qualifica- 
tion (other than Licentiate qualification) included in the 
First o» «’ond Schedule or Part IT ot Third Schedule to 
the Irnhan Medical Council \ct, 1056. | Pci sons possess- 

ing qualifications lm-Imled in Part II of Third Schedule 


24 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


[Part j 


fthould also fulfil the conditions relating to registration 
specified in section 13(3) of the Act.] (ii) Post-graduate/ 
Research Degree or Diploma, e.g., M.D D.B., or Ph.D., 
or equivalent qualification. (in) About tineo years’ teach- 
ing experience as DemunstraUn in Bacteriology / Registrar/ 
lutor or m an equivalent post m Medicine in a Medical 
( ollege. (iv) Must be jegi.stercd on a Stale Medici*! 
■Register. 

4 . Two Junior Scientific Officers, Research and Develop- 
ment organisation, Ministry of Defence. Posts temporary 
but likely to heroine permanent. ()ne of the posts reserved 
for Scheduled Castes candidate, if such suitable candidate 
available, otherwise both the posts treated as unreserved. 
Pay:—R„ : 350 -25 -oUO- - 30 500- -K H. — :t() -8fM) -K. 13.— 
.10 — ftlO — T5 — 000. Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
and experienced candidates. Age: — Preferably .10 years 
and below. Qualifications: Essential- (i> Master’s (Tech.) 

degree in Kleetronics or a degree in Telecommunication 
Engineering from any recognised Univcrsit \ oi equivalent. 
Or 1st or 2nd class Master’s degree in ()■ eanogi apliy of 
recognised university with three gears’ repeal ch cxpeiiencc. 

5 . One Baoteriologist, Corporation Health Laboratory, 
Munlolpal Corporation of Delhi. Post temporal* but likely 
to be retained or permanent basis. Pay:— Ks. TOO — 25— 
500— K. 11. — 30- (550- TO — HOO jilus othci usual allowances 
and N.P.A. at the rate of 25 ]>er cent, oi pav Private* prac- 
tice of any kind not allowed. Higher initial pay to speci- 
ally qualified and cxpciicnecd candidate. Age:— Below To 
years. Qualifications: Essential— (i) A Mede-id qualifica- 
tion included in the first oi second schedule oi Part II of 
the Third Schedule (other than licentiate qualification) to 
the I . M .< . Act, 1050. Holders ol qualifications included 
in Part 11 of the Third Schedule should also fulfil the 
conditions laid down under section 1T(T) ol the said act. 
(ii) A Post-graduate qualification in Medicine, e.g., M.l). 
with Hnctei mingy as a special subject, (m) About ;> years’ 
practical experience as a Bacteriologist including T years’ 
service in a Public Health Laboratoi y or in a largo 
Hospital. 


6 . One Pathologist, S.J.T.B. Hospital, Municipal Corpo- 
ration of Delhi. Post temporary but likelv i,o be retained 

on permanent basis. Pay:— Kx. TOO— 23- -500 K. R. TO— 

650 — IW) — 800 plus usual other allowances and N.P.A. at 
the rate ol 25 per cent, of pay. (Private pi active ol anv 
kind not allowed.) Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
and experienced candidate. AgO:— Below ,T5 years. Quali- 
fications: Essential — u) A Medical qualification included 
in the first ur Second Schedule or Part II ot the Third 
Schedule (other than licentiate qualifications) to the l.M.C. 
Act, 1050 Holders of educational qualifications included 
in J I art 11 of the Third Schedule should also fulfil the 
condttions laid down under section „f I|,c said Act. 

(ii) A lost-graduate qualification in Medicine eg MD 
with Pathology as a main subject (iii) About o’ years’ 
practical experience as a Pathologist (including throe years’ 
experience in clinical pathology in a large hospital). 


7 . Four Lady Doctors under the Coal Mines Labour 
Welfare Fund Organisation, Dhanbad, Ministry of Health 

louts temporary imt likely to be retained on permanent 
basis One post reserved for Scheduled Castes /Tribes 
(■annulate; if .10 soeli suitable candidate mailable all posts 
treated as unresemsl. Pay: Us. :!l ’6 L*5_5II0— ;«l ..'•‘90 1 
K. II.- -.i 0 -8(10 plus non-practising allowance of 2, r > ner 
cent, ol pav (subject to a iiimmiiiin ot Rs. 150 per month 
and a maximum ot Rs. -OKI per month). Private practice 

k, "‘ it ,u,t 1h ‘ Higher initial pay to 

spenolly qualified and exneneuced ea.ndi.lat.es Age-'-tO 
years and below Qualifications: Essential— (i) a M.'died 
qualification included in (lie First irr Second Schedule or 

M tV i' 1 ^" ld ("tlier than licentiate medical 

qualifications, to the India,, J|. di al Council Act. 1056 
II ersmis possessing qua,, hcati ,ns in, hided in Part. II „f 

Te h Jmtrnt T U * t 1 , 1! ' S " tnlm litmus relating io 

registration specified m section ] :!(;() „| the Act 1 

(11) About two years’ experience as House Surgeon or „ 
private practice or in public health 1,10,1 r ,n 


* .nil .tattoror™’ SSSSS ‘J S Jy.") 

tinu©. fwo pouts reserved for Scheduled Caster l 1 * 
and rme for Scheduled Tribes ‘ . ,T , “ ! 

candidates available, otherwise all posts ”7 

ed. Pay: — Rs. **5-15-17-, I '’j^. <Mted unreaet 

i>.- — o t o (revia 


scale). Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 6 v ru> . 
euced candidates. Ag«:— 35 years and below for all ; J, r J' 
mg Government servants. Qualifications: Essential 

(l) Matriculation of a recognised University, or equivn ? 
(11) Certificate or Diploma in Printing and allied tr&H 
from n recognised Technical Institution in India or ahr ) 

(m) About throe years’ praetieal experience (of 
about two yeais should be in a supervisory capacity) , IK ^ 
Government Press or 1* big commercial printing coiu<. r , n 8 
various branches ot printing Trade, e.g.. Mechanical r 11 
position, Dinden and Warehouse, Machine Printing 1,1 
Or Certificate as a qualified Apprentice after full 4 ’ ett ; 
apprenticeship in a Government of India Press. ’ flr}> 


appro 
0 . 

Pradesh 
continue. Pay: 


Two Headmasters, Basle Training Schools, Hlmaehi 
sh Administration. Posts temporary but hWi 8 

Rs. 250 -25- -550/25 — 750 plus 1u ’ 


cent, as Special Pay. Higher initial pay to speeiall\ U ( , n !7] 
tied and experienced candidates. Age: — T5 years ami l»*] . 
Qualifications: Essential — ( 1 ) Degree of a recognised Uju-?’ 
sit v ( 11 ) Degree in Teaching/ Education of a reco'rr/^ij 
university with basic training. (iii) About five r 
experience of teaching and administration in School v* 1,1 ' 
ferahly 111 Basic Schools. ' l ,n> ' 

10. One Assistant Director (Technical). Cheini B *«J 
Section, Central Sericulture Researoh Station, BuS? 
pore, Ministry of Commerce and industry. Post teiimnr' 
hut likely to continue. Other things being equal, Sclinli.lj ' 
(’astes/ Tribes candidate preferred. Pay: — Rs -l()it in, 1 
m .to. (too- .r, (i7(l-K. R. 40 -950. Higher initial j^i 
h> specially qualified and experienced candidate. As®- ' 

T5 \ears i*ml below. Qualifications: Essential (j) At ||.h' 

Second (’lass M.Sc Degree in Chemistry’ r/r Soil ' S< , 
of a recognised University. Or Assoeiateship 0 f J 
Agnrult iiral Research Instituto in Agricultural ('lirniwJ 
ami Soil Science, or equivalent qualification. (u) \i„‘ j 
tliive lears’ practical ami research experience in rc|J,'IJ 
In Soil Science. ■ 

II One Junior Instructor, National Fire Service Coilog, 
Nagpur, Ministry of Home Affairs. I>ok(. temporal-, W 
likely I,, continue m.lcfimleh . Post jeserverl for SclioilaW 
(aates/ Iribes ch miniate, ,t no such suitable Candida! 

available, will he t.rcatci] as unrcaerveil. Pay: -cy, 

f*K(( — -IP — -ifhl — I',. II.— tiO- 8(K). Higher initial' tnv t 
specially qualified and experienced candidate Am-'-j 
years and below Qualifications: EsMntlal — (i) ' Matrie'iiht 
of a. m-ogmsed. Hoard or Fniversitv, or equiiab? 

(n) Graduate ol the Institution ot Fire Kngineers London 
Iiliw r" Va 7i t ' , 0r n :> ,l,,ma 1,1 Station Officers /Staii 
'"' Se . Nat,l ’! ial ^'’('Service Coll J 
iTuna. (m) About ten \ ears experience in a full tinu 
hire Brigade Service, of which about four years’ ahoill 
bine been as Sub-Officer or higher rank or five veare 1 
r + XI cmZ;;r a <>*• in a higher rarxk i.r tlidv 

eidre. 0nt<,red S<,ni " t - dirwt 

Col iesa ° 1? 9 ^i*ihi r ‘Jl .^“ r . maoy ’ Mlwl * n * A »d MxllaL 
n?, v t?,’.t ^,l i °f h ’ P e,hi Admlniatration. Post tempo 
linsm U »».' i,” < and bp rpt ained on permaticii 

anco of 8 ‘ -*-R* — -TO — 650. (Non-practising allm 

Rs 150 nor m ' r , „ l’?,' - K,, l;.i'“ct to a III in immli 0 

nossessos Al i° n \ l Wl I J-' 1 ’ " °' ve, i i* the selected Candida* 
k ml wOl , ,<1 " 1 ,r al| fi (all V , ” i - 1’fivate prance of J 
(iimlifioil °i ** alhmed). Higher initial pav to special 
quid, hod and experienced candidate. Age:— 45 years ad 

IVI h i*ha?mn ,fiC ? t,0n,! E * s ® n * i ®'— <0 M.Phann.'or M.V 
maceutu ?’’’ tl0S aS ■' subject, or Ph.D in PlJ 

“Z . m ° K11, ;r d ,. University, (ii) About tW 

Ph-irmucv t,'' T" f y* **tlical Collego or in a College < 
li.umuM teaching at least up to Il.Phwm. 

Lecture < r i) in T na„!!? i ° r .. L ^ CtUrer8 in and (II) », 

AdmlnfstratfiS, * o’ , MBB ’ College, A gar tala, Trip? 

and ho*«Jn m*" i P ° StS to m pooary but likely to contui 
ScI]imIuIc,I Tnl*^ ° n ] H!rnUMU ' n< basis. Posts reserved It 
.uadahe w.l Z f ndldate F « no suel, suitable candid 
r “ 2%1 'AuJv, tr r Uidas "“reserved. Fay:-Pos« A 
pe r rnoZi, ) p «.'C 76 , 0 , (o " an 'n>tial pay of Ks i 
Will 1 fa 0 * 4 (,l > ! ft*. 200 — 10 — 420— 1«5— —4o0 (cal 

s^mJirnunbfi!^ Per m . onth >- Higher initial |*H 
venrs Ami V and candidates. Age:-/ 

noxt (ii) Ouaiiifi )r *i PostR an d 35 voars and below f 
» EMential_<|> Sanlor Lecture^ 

m Beniiili «. i xi ^ eaN t Second Clans IMasfei’s ^ 
University * ‘Ji s in Sanskrit of a it’cognwl 

degice iii Km?* ? eoonc * P* ,t! ^ second class Master , 
k 111 »nd Master’* Degree in Engliihofi 


Paht II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


25 


recognised UmrOTiity. (ii) About three years’ experience 
m tern- lung Bengali up to Honours course in Degree Classes 
(tor both the posts), (u) Lecturer: At least second class 
Raster's degree m Bengali of a recognised University. 

14 (Cr,ft "«* G*»0, central insti- 

tute ef Flahertea Education, Bombay, Ministry of Food and 

Agriculture. Post, temporary but likely to continue. Post 
reserved tor Scheduled tastes candidate; if no such suit- 
able candidate available, will be treated as unresen ed 
pay:- -Its. d.,0— 20— 4.50— h: B— 25-575. Higher initial 
pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age: 

—Not less than :10 years. Qualifications: Essential (i) 

Degree ni Engineering of » recognised University or ec.ui- 
\ a lent Or Diploma in Naval Architecture of a recognised 
Instil lit ion. 00 About, two years’ practical experience in 
( iaft and gear technology. 

D «P u ‘y p « b, ' ol ‘» pffleer, Tripura Administration. 

Post- temporary lint likely t„ continue indefinitely. Post 
jpsfrved lor Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidate ’if such 
suitable candidate available; otherwise treated as unreserv- 
I‘d. Fay:— Rx. i*“ <4 — ' r ’ — Higher initial ptiv 

Specially (nullified and experienced candidate Age-- 
:io )•'«>•« and below. Qualifications: Essential— < i > |),.„.'. 0( . 
„t „ recognised linn ersity . (ii) About two years’ e\pori- 
vnee imirnahstic/ publicity /public relations work under 
(.oveimnont nr in a- news agency ,n publicity organisation 
ot standing. ( 111 ) Knowledge of Bengali. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 

General instructions to candidates applying In response te 
advertisements Issued by the Commission for recruit- 
ment to posts of ''Selection”. 

(1) Instructions regarding submission of epplloatlon 

t(jj, lu ations are to be made on the prescribed I arm which 
mil he available from the ofhee of the Public Service <W 
missioii, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floori 
thporc, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a large self- 
Mldrensed envelofm with stamps sufficient to cover the 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtam 

copies of the proscribed form may apply on anv similar 
typed (not handwritten) form showing exactly the word 
mg »ud spacing of, the sample form published in the 
***** ^ of the let September 1955, provided 
tin blanks are filled up in the candidates’ own handwriting. 

(1!) Particular, and oortiftoates required— Candidates 

should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications ami 
evmua extusnence together witii certificates written noc 
lore than one year prior to the date of their applications 
,h.r.cmr SP ' m8 1>t>r8 ° n8 ’ testifying to their private 

'^rded°m m tim ,0 M 0n,V the age ot a as 

«s. “si 

1 A .vhHoV h V at 1 from tbe Headmistress of the school 

h * r *** - 

2 A “ regarding her age sworn by her father 

kUrJv’h.vwT 0 ° ther P ° rBOn in » IMMdtiam to 
at the tim! n^ g be<m p,esent or heard ot her birth 
b u,c tini o of occurrence. 

3 ' A thTlleakTat!'m 8ardinK h * r *"!• from a dumber of 

have lmni^iu 0r •..fitted officer, who must, 
ing ctearlv n th^ C vi ,ldldate ° n . d her fami,T ' indicate 

rtS s?, i:'“ cb ^ 

. 7;. mt — t ondoTO milt their ap.Iin- 

^""‘Govmnn.oni tr«l“ h " f !V™ n of a re ™'P*ed oUlan 
head "XX VVT V iu® r ^ Bank of India 


tef s > e . tc - “ of treasury challans are not accepted. 

4a order, however may be accepted from candidates 
tarv y p!m d u be V ros “od and made payable to “The Secret 
^ L, Pub ru‘ Sen " 0P f ommias '°n. West Bengal’’. No am>li- 

riSSk,-: 

the case may be, and obtain receipts for the same wiii^h 

SrfSr^ swsxts, rt ^ 

ed by their superior officers. In nn Jv \ Vw -J 

w, th the application be refunded. 6 pa,d 

The Commission mav remit fee m „ . , 

indigent and bona lido displaced person from Pakistan! 116 * 

J-ii^X.S'TS' ?• j* 

advertised bv the Commission but if ho/she w selected*^ 

K"X33 hSzSS?"- V..SSK? .'S 

that he is bona hde displaced person trom Pakistan 
o«ce K r e r<,gi M ra K° n c r ai 5 or a certificate from a gazetted 
ongma'r “ Meraber of p »rliament or State Legislature, in 

TriV' ) ) "'ember of the Scheduled Cawte or Scliedulod 
Inbe claiming age concession must furnish with his arn h 

u‘‘” a < 'f rt »“‘t ta ° r,Klnal ir,,m a Knitted officer or a 
the ‘iu t’ f | i a ' larnent or State Legislature belonging to 

.£!«? s: 

State Legislature to show that he is not in a nosTthm ?e 
pay the proscribed fee.” 15 8 P 0!,ltl<m lo 

. j 4 ^ ^ ddress.-— Can didates should give their present 

sssrjriifis* *• »>ds 

(5) Canvassing. — Any attempt on the part of candidate 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will SalTfy them 
tor appointment. Sjiontaneous recommendation from 

STSL wdi r< or otherwi8e k — 

IricUa a win 0 7-, BOr -‘ V * ( j gM 1 T)amf ^ ar v «»o.v Corporation), in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority u( their posts or service. g 

sor , v r|n r, 1,r ‘ (lor Government or a local or 
► iatutorv Body - should submit an advance copv in the pres- 

nffn°J J°+ In xi ,e i a,p l )Ilcatlnn fee in such cases he 

attached to the advance copy and not to the original The 

-f r !i R - l ° h , appHc ; a,Us may nofc however b*e con- 
sidered if the original applications do not reach the Com- 
mission s office wit Inn a fortnight from the closing date 
Imless applications in original or advance copied with 
application fees are received within the closing date late 
apjflications may he rejected. ’ 


A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 
All pore, the 27 th January 196i. 


26 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


[Part n 


Advertisement No. SO of 1001 


APPLICATIONS ar. invited from Indian citizen. for 
the following post#: — 


(«) Nino posts in the West Bengal Agricultural Service 
(Administration). Posts temporary. Persons having a 
lien cit a conditional lien on a permanent post under the 
Apiculture and Food Production Department, West 
Bengal, who ate eligible for appointment to the YVest* 
Bengal Agricull ural Seriice (Administration) hy promotion 
are mehgible to appiv. Pay:-Rs. 2 f) 0 - 20 -(mO-2o- 7 5D 
per month plus usual allowances. 


Qualifications: Essential— (I) A second class degree in 
Agricultuie Or A second class Master’s degree or a second 
class Honours degree m » Science basic to Agriculture 
together w f ith a reasonably high standard of post-graduate 
training in Agronomy, (ii) Sound experience or farm 
management, or Agronomic research or agricultural exten- 
sion or a post graduate degree or diploma in Agronomy. 
Desirable — (i) Administrative experience ; (ii) Knowledge 
of rural conditions and agricultural practices, preferably m 
West Jlcngal ; (iii) Sound knowledge oi 1km gall— spoken 
and written. Age:— Not more than 25 years on the 1st 
.In nun it 10(i2. reliable in the case ol candidates specially 
well-qualified and experienced and tor persons already in 
permanent (Jovernmcnt service. 


<b> On® Tanks Improvement Officer under the Agricul- 
ture and Food Production (T.l.) Department, West Bengal. 

Post temporary. Women unsuitable. Persons having a 
lien or n. conditional hen ou a jmrinnnent post under the 
Agriculture and Food Production Depaitniont, West 
Hen gal, who are eligible for appointment to the post by 
promotion are ineligible to apply. Pay: — Hs. 200-10- 4-0 

IT. - ir»0 (E.B. alter 10th and 18th stages) per month 

plus usual allowances. 


Qualifications: Essential— (i) A degree of a recognised 
University, preierablv in Science; (ii) Adequate adminis- 
trative experience; (iii) Ability to undertake hard touring 
in rural areas prelorence being given to persons with such 
touring experience; (u) Sound knowledge of Bengali— 
spoken, and written; (\ ) Working knowledge of survey and 
settlement upeiations. <••) Working knowledge laws 
relating to tenancy and inheritance. Desirable-— Knowledge 
of one or mop* ol the following' (i) Excavation of tanks 
and bundhs and const nation of masi/nry and olliei embank- 
ments; (nl Agi oecomnnit conditions of rural Bengal; 
(iii) Collection ol statistical da tit. Age:— Oidinarily not 
more than 55 vein's on the 1st January 1962. 


Age conoeselon 

The age-limit for all tlm posts is relaxable by five year* 
for Scheduled Castes /Tribes and up to 45 years loi 
displaced persons from Pakistan. 


Advertisement No. 1 of IBM 


APPLICATIONS are invited from Indian citizens 
the lollowing posts:— 



usual allowances 


Qualifications: Essential -(:) A degree m Mechanic' 
l''n<'iiiri i rmg oi n recognised Lniverat.v or any other quati- 
fi.-al,on ii> Mechanical Knginecrmg exempting a candidate 
from appearing in Sections A and I of the Associate 
Mends*' ship Kxatnination <>t the Institution of Enguiears 
(India*- (ii) Five years’ practical experience in n respon- 
sd,lo position m an Kngmeenng or Automobile concern of 
icimtc (iii) Administrative ability. Desirable — (i) \ 
degi cc * oi diploma in Automobile Engineering from a 
recognised Institute in India or abroad; (u) Practical 
cvnciic.ee in mi Automobile workshop or garage oi repute 
dealing with production, maintenance or repair of heavr 
petrol ami diesel vehicles; (iii) Knowledge of Bengali! 
spoken and wntteii. Age:— Not more than 45 years on 
the 1st February 1962, relaxable in case oi an exrq,. 
tmiinlh (pudified candidate. 

Tim lath February 1082. 


(I,) One Research Officer (Electronics) at the River 
Research Institute, West Bengal In the West Bengal 
General Service. Po*t temporary. Pay:— Rs. 250- 2V 
850 ( E.B. after the 12th stage) per month plus usual 
allowances. Higher initial pay may he granted on the 
basis ol age and qualifications in deserving caBOt*. 


Qualifications: -A second class At .Sc. degree in Radio 
Plivsics or Applied Physics with Communication Engineer, 
mg as the special subject, of a recognised University; Or, 
A Fellowship or an Assoeioteship in Electronic* oi tin, 
Institute of Science, Bangalore (India); Or, A. B.Kt 
degree in Electronics of a recognised foreign Umvonsitv 
Age:-- Ordinarily not more than 27 years on tin* 1st 
February 1962. 

Closing date The 6th February 1982. 


iv) Six Lecturers in Engineering and Heads of the 
Technical Sections attached to Government MultlpurpoM 
Schools in the West Bengal General Service, {Posts tem- 
porary but likely to be made permanent. A panel ol 
suitable candidates will be prepared for future varantm 
Women unsuitable. Pay: — Rb, 250 — 25 — 850 per mcmtii 
plus usual allowances. Higher initial pay up to Rs. 400 
may be allowed to qualified candidates on the basis of iigi 
and experience. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947, was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account ol 
his activities in connection with the country’* struggle Tor 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall he entitled to a concession in respect, 
of the age-hmii Tim concession granted will he equal to 
the exact pci mil .>! detention, imprisonment, internment 
or externmen! ^uttered up to a maximum of four year*. 

Apply to Se< »eUrv with a Treasury Chulnn ot Rs 5 
under head “\"\XY I -Miscellaneous -Receipts of Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal” or a Crossed PoNtal 
Order of Rs. 5 payable to “Secretary. Public Service 
Commission, West* Bengal” Overseas candidates may 
deposit their application fees with the High Commission 
of India or tlm Indian Embassy, as the case may be. Parti- 
culars and piesrnVd application torm., obtainable from the 
office of the Commission, Anderson House 'ground floor), 
Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on ’sending a self- 
addrexsed envelope (size 14" xG" 1 ) with postage stamp of 
;15 riP. and the name ot the post .superscribed on the 
envelope. Those who intend to take application forms 
and/or submit the application* personally, slmidd do so 
between 10-15 n.m. ami 5 00 p.m. on full working days and 
between 10-15 a. in. and 12-.T) p.m. on Saturdays. 

Closing date— The 31 st January 1962. 

A. C. ROY, tfecretarv. 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Alipore, the 29th December 1961. 


Qualifications: Essential— (i) A degree m Engineering 
(Civil or Mechanical or Electrical) of a recognised Univer- 
sity, or iMiv other qualification in Civil or Mechanical or 
Electrical Engineering exempting a candidate from appear' 
mg in Sections “A* 1 and “B” i/f the Associate Membership 
Examination of the Institution of Engineers (India • 
(iii One year’s post-graduate practical training or study 
or research oi practical engineering or teaching experience. 
Desirable— ( j) Technical Teachers’ Training or teaching 
experience; (u) Hood power ol expression in ^ Bengal'" 
spoken and written. Age:— Not more than Bo years o® 
the 1st February 1962, relaxable in the cme ot Candida* 
possessing exceptionally high qualifications and for 9* rs0 . | 
holding substantive appointment in the Education Dep 8 
ment, West Bengal, 

Closing date— The 6th February 1982, 

(d) One Physicist in the West Bengal General WjJj 
under the Department of Health, West Bengal. M 

temporary hut likelv to he made permanent. ** f»y 
Rh. 525- - 5(1—475— ;15— 1,000 (E.B. after 8th and 

stages) inclusive of dearness allowance per ipon 1’ J 
exclusive of house-rent allowance. Higher imt»» ] 
may be ul lowed to a highly qualified candidate. 

Qualifications: Essential— A. second class dp ^j2 
Physics of a recognised University, with X-ray ^ 
paper, Or, Membership of the Institute of Physics ( » J j 
alter graduation in Science. Desirable — (i) N T P° rl 



THE OAEOTTTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY IS, 1962 


21 


pji'f n] 


l , n a Radiotherapy Department of a General or 
^ jm».l I lospitnl ; (ii) Experience of Dose measure- 
and planning of Radium and X-r»y treatment; 

' 1 Kxperiene© of work with Radio-active isotopes and 
l 11 *. ( .|mi(*al application. Age: — Not more than 45 years 

,i lP ] H t February 1902, relaxahle in the case of spec ially 
'wl.So.1 <'i>ntlidatcs. 

dosing date— The 6th February 1662. 

i( one Lecturer in Physical Eduoatien in the West 
J'L-i junior Educational Service. Post temporary. Men 
8 , table. Pay: — Rs. 200 — 15 — 520 — 20 — 500 per month 

l\ 1]Sll al allowances. Higher initial pay may be given 
yjH. lm*is up to 52 years, the pay corresponding to that 
l HM ng Rs. 505. Higher initial pay may also he 
ilnttHl according to qualifications. 

Qualifications : Essential— (i) A degree of a recognised 
“ Vfl rsity plus a degree or diploma in Physical Education 
iVcognised institutK.’n ; (ii) Should be conversant 
^ Ii,,. modern principles and techniques ol physical 
ol children ol the age-group :V — M ; (iii) Fxperi- 
!M ,’ teaching and organisation of Physical Education 
, A n cognised institution, preferably in a* Training School 
• ( ol li’jjc Desirable — (i) Training in Brntachari, N.C (’. 

r Ni.’iPuig; (ii) Good power ot expression in Bengali — 
uoLcn and written; (iii) Proficiency in Art and Craft or 
l| lsl( , (iv) Training in Rhythmics. Age: — Not more 

mm .V> years on the 1st February 19(32, relaxahle for an 
xleptionolly qualified candidate and for persc/ns holding 
ulJianl/ve' appointment under Government. 

Closing date- The 6th February 1682. 

Age concession 

• 

| in i age-1 1 hi it lor all the posts is relaxahle by live years 
i s. ii.-dulcd Castes/ Tribes and up to 45 yours lor 
ju, laced prisons Irom Pakistan. 

1 tandidalo who before the 15th August 1947, was 
,• 1 , lined, i in pt isoned, interned or externed on account of 
i i**i activities in connection with the country’s struggle 
<i independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
i'i i i in jiitude, .thall he entitled to a concession in respect 
: tV uge limit. The concession granted w ill l>e equal to 
lir i Mid period ol detention, imprisonment, internment 
u i'M'm ament '.uflerod up to a maximum of four years. 

i \i»pls to Sen eta rv with a Treasury Clialan r»f Rs 5 
ii'Vi licanl “XWVI M c«< ellaueous Receipts of Public 
pm ii i' Comimssiun, West Bengal”. or a (’rossed Pr/stal 
|ii<! "1 IN jm\ able to ‘'Secretary, Public Service 
!* a mis ,n»n , Wc-r Bengal'’. Overseas candidates may 
(i"Nii then apph at ion lees with tlie High Commission 
t India or the Indian Endaosv. as the case max be Purli- 
(i 1 * * :wul nresciibcd application forms obtainable from the 
p 1 "' 'd the ( onnn issjon , Anderson (louse (ground floor), 
p inic ( alcut tn-27. personally or on sending a selt- 
,M ‘d en\ elope (size 1 0 " x G " ) with postage stamp of 
■il‘ arid the name ol tlie post superscribed on the 
'd" 0 e Those Who intend to take application Ic/rms 
mahout the applications pci sunnily, should do so 
a. in. and 3-00 u in. on full working dnx.s and 
I " w " l!, d5 a. in. and 12-59 p. m . on Saturdays. ' 

! A. C. ROV. Secretary, 

t Public Service Commission, West Bengal.* 

r u ' ! * H ' Gtli .lanuary 19(32. 


Advertisement No. 2 

l l / 1 l!/nu™'a > i',l i (‘22 1 '' itl '' 1 l,,M " 1,ulmn <iU!5p " s " 

th ' recruHnlan* 01 ! af Pane,s of Candidate* in connectic 
r the taS?? *? P ermai *ont posts of Assitsant Masti 
Ixtoi in * 5 ?.' f??i Ct 1 n of t ! ,e Darjeeling Government Hig 
"""• following subjects:— 

i ^vrei, 1 ' . ^KraP 1 '.':. fiiC Civics, (iv) Physic: 
L ' licin'slry anti (vi) Mathematics. 

C l n , ditlat .^ s,10uld spefifv clearly i 

*f^k ect - ,o , r * hloh the * «'*•> to t 

/•th tn u a Hvnn" ^ Sl Vfff— •> — 150 — 10 — .‘150 per mont 
ame increments for persons possessing t 


least Second Class Master’s degree) plus usual allowances. 
Higher initial pay on age basis up to 55 years will be 
admissible to the candidates selected, provided that they 
havo spent most ot their past years in recognised educa- 
tional institutions. Untrained candidates, if selected, will 
draw un ad hoe initial salary in the scale till they are 
trained. 

Qualifications: Essential — (i) Honours degree or Second 
( la«s Master’s degiee ol a rec ognised University, in the 
appropiiate subject, (ii) Capacity to teach the subjects 
through the medium ot Nepali language. Desirable— A 
degree in teaching. Ago:— Not more than 25 vears on the 
Lst February 1962, relaxahle up to 50 years in favour of 
the candidates having two years’ experience in teaching. 
I he ago-limit will not, he applicable to the persons bolding 
substantive appointment in tlie Education Department, 
West Bengal. 

Closing date The 10th February 1962. 

(h) Preparation of Panels of Candidates in connection 
with recruitment to permanent posts of Assistant Master 
anil Assistant Mistress in Government High Schools (Multi* 
purpose) for Boys and Girls respectively. Hope rate panels 
w ] n be prepared leu* men aiul women in tlie subjects as 
specified below: - 


For Men— (o Mathematics, (ii) Physics, (iii) Chemistry, 
(iv) History, (\ ) English, (vi) Geography, (vii) Sanskrit, 
(vin i < ommerce and fix) Bengali. For Women— English, 
t wjdid.it os should specify clearly in their applications the 

subject for which they wish to be considered. Pay: 

R's. 150 5—150 10 — 550 per month (with two advance 

liioretnen Is Im pcrsmis possessing at least Second Class 
Ma.slcr s degree) plus usual allowances. Higher initial 
pav on age basis up to 55 .scars will he admissible to tlie 
< and l dittos selected, provided that they have spent most 
ot their past years in recognised educational institutions. 
I nl rained candidates, il selected, wdl draw an ad hoc 
initial salary in the scale till they arc trained. 

Qualifications: Essential — Honours degree or Second Class 
Master s degree ol a recognised University, in the approx 

pi mte suh|oct. Desirable — A degree in teaching. Age: 

For Assistant Master*— Not more than 25 years on the 
Ut February 1^62, relaxahle up to 50 years in favour of 
Hie candidates hawing two years’ experience in teaching. 
f r Assistant Mistres^Not more than .‘10 years on the 
1st February 1902 The age-limits will not be applicable 
to ihe persons holding substantive appointment in the 
Education Deput tincnl , West Bengal. 

Closing date — The 15th February 1962. 

(c) Preparation of a Panel of Candidates in Conneotion 
with recruitment to permanent posts of Assistant Master 
in Biology in Government High Schools (Multipurpose) for 
Boys. Women unsuitable. Pay:— Rs. 130—5—150—10— 

• voO per month (with tw*/ advance increments for persons 
pressing at least Second Class Mastor’s degree) plus 
usual allowances. Higher initial pay cm *ge basis up to 
•»o years will be admissible to the candidates selected, 
pinvidcd flint they havo spent most of their past years in 
recognised educational institutions. Untrained candidates, 
d selected, will draw an ad hoc initial salary in the scale 
lHI tlio\ aie trained. 


Qualifications: Essential-B.Se. Honours or M.Sc. (Class 
11). m liotiwiv i/r ZooloRv. with Biology at the I. Sc. stage 
or a reioRinseil I'niversitv. Desirable-A degree in Aacli- 
Age:--Nel more than i'i years on the 1st February 
n-iaMihle up to «) years m iavour of the candidate's 
"avinsr two veals’ experience in leaching. The age-limit 
Will not he applicable to the persons holding substantive 
appointment in the Education Department, West Bengal. 

Closing date— The 10th February 1962. 

(<\) Twelve Physical Instructors of Government High 
Schools, Colleges and Madrasahs. Posts permanent. 
Women unsuitable. A panel will also bo prepared for 
future vacancies. Pay:— Rs. 100—5—215 -10—225 (E.B. 
all ci 1 2th stage) per month plus usual allowances. 

Qualifications: — A degree erf » recognised University with 
a diploma in Physical Education of a recognised Physical 
Training Centro or Institution. Age:— Not more than 25 
years on the lst February 1962, relaxahle up to 35 years 



28 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


[Part ij 


in siuHbta ftiWa a i the diacretion of tho Commission. The 
*g<5-lin*it will not bo applicable to the persons holding 
subatantivo appointment in the Education Department, 

Went Bengal. 

Olotkig gate— The lath February 1962. 

(e) Preparation of a Panel of Candidates in connection 
With recruitment to permanent posts of Physieal instruc- 
treee In Government High Schools for Girls. Men unsuit- 
able. Payi—Rs. 100 — 5 —215 — 10 -225 (E.H. after 12th 
stage) per month plus usual alli/wances. 

Qualifications: — A degree of a recognised University with 
a diploma in Physical Education of a recognised Physical 
Training Centre or Institution. Age: — Not more than INI 
years on the 1st February 1962. The age-limit will not 
be applicable to the persons bolding substantive appoint- 
ment in the Education Department, West Bengal. 

Closing date— The 12th February 1962. 

(t) One Horticultural Overseer, Government Cinchona 
Plantation at Darfeollng under the Cinchona Directorate, 

Wait Bengal. Post temporary. Pay t— Ms. 125-5-215- 
10 — 275 (K.B after 12th stage) pet month plus usual 
allowances. 

Qualifications: Essential—- A degree? m a diploma in Agri- 
culture of a recognised PmversiU , Or, A degree in Science 
of a recognised University with Botany us one of the 
subjects, preference being given to those having some field 
experience in plantations. Desirable Expei ienee in the 
management of the la hour. Age: — Ordinarily not more 
than 50 years on the I si February 1902, reluxable in 
suitable ciiNes. 

Closing date— The loth February 1962. 


Age concession 

"I he age-limit for all the pos(s is relaxable by five years 
lor Scheduled ( 'astes/Tnhes and up to 45 years tor 
displaced persons from Pakistan. 


A candidate who helore the 15th August 1917, was 
detained, imprisoned, int-eiucd or externed on account ol 
his/her acliwtu s in connection with the country’s struggle 
lor independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall he utitlod to a ccmcession in respect- 
of the uge-hmit. 'Hie concession granted will he etjual 
the exact period ot detention, imprisonment, internment 
or externment suffered up to a maximum of four vears. 


Apply to Secretary with a Treasury Chalun ol Ms. 5 
under head “XNXVI M lseella neons -Receipts of Piiblu 
Service Commission, West Bengal”, or a. Crossed Postal 
Order of Us. 5 payable to “Secretary, Public Service 
Commission, 5Vest Bengal”. Overseas candidates nmv 
deposit their application lees with the High Commissar* 
of India or the Indian Embassy, as the case may he. Parti- 
eidura and prescribed application forms obtainable irorn the 
ottice ot the Coimnission, Anderscm House (ground floor) 
Alipore, Cab i.lta-27, jiersoniilly or on sending a self- 
addressod envelope (size 10" x6") with postage stamp ot 
.15 nP. iwid the name ot the jiost superscribed on the 
enveJope. Jhose who intend to take application forma 
and/or submit the applications personallv, should do so 
between 10-15 a.m. and 3-IH) p.rn. on full working da\s ami 
between 10-15 a.m. and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays 


^ • U- BOV. Secretary, 

I ublic Service ( oinmission, West Bengal. 
Alipore, the Pith January 19(32. 


IH THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, HOWRAH 

Insolvency Case Ho. 33 of 1961 

TAK.fi notw II, at an apnlirat,.,,, has boon filed („• 
Bishw&natli Klimtan, son nt Knsbi p, as ad KliaiL-m ,,f is 
Mullick KMwl, Calcutta, tor \ |!’ Xl.mif. 

Kngimor aO.A.C . !>,», Dm„, at proaont 
M r - \ A - VVllll r '! nn" 'I'mrtors, Bamangacbi Strict 

T, “' has boon adniu'd 

and fbtod on 12th Febrnnij 1962 for hearing. oU 


ILLEGIBLE. 
District Judge. 

(38—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, HOWRgg 
Insolvency Cm No, 1 of 1102 

TAKE notice that an application lias been , 

Kishan Lai Kothari, son of late Sada Sukh RotW 
residing at 16. Satya-miram Temple Road, Salkia, poW 
station Malipanchghorn, district Howrah, for being adjJj 
ed an insolvent. The application has been admitted aS 
fixed on 3rd Eehruary 1902 lor hearing. nd 

ILLEGIBLE, 
District Judgi. 


IN THE 2ND COURT OF THE ADDL. DISTRICT juner 
AT ALIPORE U8E 

insolvency Application No. 4 of 1961 

hikrama Pn/sml Singh, son of late Klmbaii Singh, reside 
at Good Shed Road. Titngorh, police-station Titianirf 
dislrict 24-Parganas. ® V 

PPHSUANT to a petition, dated the 29th day ot \| ar( ,i 
1961. and on the application of the debtor himself ami on 
leading his petition ami hearing him it is ordered that tha 
debtor he and the said debtor is hereby adjudged insolvent 

It is turther ordered that the debtor do apply for U 
discharge within one year from 12th September *1961 

Dated this 19th day of December 1961. 

A. N. MPKHEIMEE, Addl. District Jml^.j 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT 
ALIPORE 


Insolvency Application No. 25 of 1961 

PFHKP VNT to a petit ion. dated 16th .June 1961, lit 
by Groin Sankai Bhalotia ot 22 Burnishihtala lion 
Behala, Debtor, and on tin* application of the Debtoi Im 
sell and on reading his application and hearing Ins linvji 
it is ordered that the debtor be and the said debtoi 
hereby adjudged insolvent. 

It is further ordered that the debtor do ivpph Im li 
discharge within 31st December 19(33. 

Dated this Sth day ol January 1962. 


N. G. OHAUDHUR], SuMudp 

( 35 - 1 ( 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 

Insolvency Case No. 12 of 1961 

Madan Lai Agaiwala of Asansol Town, Burdwan, Credit 
Applicant. 

In '-Frank A. Holland, working in West Bengal 
ment. Press at 3K Gopal Nugar Road, Alipore, CsiN* 
--Debtor. 

UN the 3rd day of January 1962 it was ordered tf 
the matter ol the petition of the applicant be beard 
the 5th da-v ot Kehruary 1962 and that the «aid appb’ rt 
do attend to be examined by this Court on that date. 

Alipore, the 8th January 1962. 


A. K. SEN, District Jirfl 

( 88-1 


Part H] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


29 


, N THE court of the oistriot judge, birbhum 

InMlvancy Cm* No. 1 of 1661 

NOTICE is hereby given that Shri Bhairab Chandra 
Dutta, son ) a ^ e ftadhatnadliab Dutta, of Sarpahlhana, 
and Chouki Bolpur, U. B. Albandha, district Birhhum, 
"'applied to this court lor being adjudged an in sc/1 vent. 
I'ha lfith day of February 1962, has been fixed for hearing 
{hereof. 

T. BI1 ATTACH ARYY A , 
District Judge. 

(62-1) 


IN THE COURT OF MUN8IF, 2ND COURT. 
KI&HANGANJ (PURNEA) 


II M.8. NO. 73 Qf 1001 

Sarhon Kumar Raj Kumar, registered firm of Kishanganj, 
district Pur non. 

versua 

Hi Dijcii Kumar Anml Kumar Firm. 

(2) Dijcii Kumar. 

,,ii A mu I Kumar, son of Dijen Kumar, bv caste Hindu, 
h\ occupation shopkeeper. 

Residents of Punjipura, P.S. (loalpokher, district 
West Dinajpur. 

WIIKKK the abovesaid plaintiffs have filed the above 
sun against wu for Rs. 991 .1X3 nP. on the basis of 
Arnault Books and whereas 15th February 1902 has been 
hW mi bearing you are hereby directed to appear on trie 
date h\ed lading which suit will be heard and decided 
e\ parte. 

(Jiuai under my band iwid seal of the Court tins the 
lnth du\ oj January 1962. 


IN THE COURT OF MUN8IF 2ND COURT. 

KI8HANGANJ, DISTRICT PURNEA 
II M. 8. No. 72 of 1961 

Sarwan Kumar Raj Kumar, registered firm of Kishanganj, 
district Purnea. 

veraua 

Ala rit oo Kumar Choudhary, son of Diien Kumar Choudhary, 
by c-wKte Hindu, shopkeeper. Resident of Panjipara. 
P.S. Uoalpokhar, district West Dinajpur. 

WHEREAS the abovesaid plaintiffs have filed the above 
suit against you for Rs. 509.97 nP. on the basis of account 
books and whereas loth February 1962, has been fixed for 
bearing you are herewith directed to appear on the date 
iixed failing which the suit will be beard and decided 
ex parte. 

Hi von under my hand and -cal of the Court this the 
10th day ol January 1962. 

R'. N. PRASAD, Munsif. 

(64-1) 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA IN INSOLVENCY 

Summary Cast No. 7 of i960 

Re.: Alan Roger Jobe, ex parte the Debtor 

NOTICE is hereby given that the abovenamod debtor 
having applied for bis discharge, the Court bus fixed 
I uesday. tin* 6th day ol .March 1962, at 12 o’clock noon f*t 
the Court House lor hearing the application. 

Dated the 5th day ot January 1962. 

M. M. CHAKRA PARTY, 
Official Assignee of Calcutta. 


COMPANY PETITION No. 226 OF 1961 


R N- PRASAD, Munsif. 

(6,J — 1 ) 


iTHE COURT of THE MUNSIF 2ND COURT, DHANBAD 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
ORIGINAL JURISDICTION 

In the matter c/t Companies \»*t, 1956 
And 

In the matter ol Standard Paint Works Private Ltd. 
Messrs. Imperial Oil Mills Ltd. — Petitioner. 


Money Suit No. 86 of 1961 

Slnb Shankar Hole — Plaintiff 

versus 

Messrs. D. C. Chose & Co.— Defendant* 

> ( 1) Mess is D. C. Chose & Co., Merchant and ( 

"‘Chi' (^icuu!/^^ lIltHclantftt H|V ‘ " idin fc 15 

’ MW not kno, 

L«ne? cJlrutU. W "‘ ,ent ° f 5 /<’ « 

notice 

*1°* t,,c d 

I lit 1 " 1 notified to app 


S. SINHA, Munsif. 

(40 — 1) 


NOTICE is hereby given that a petition for winding up 
o! the abovenamed company by the High Court, Calcutta, 
was on the 1 Ith day ot December 1961 presented to the 
said Court by Messrs. Imperial Oil Mills Ltd. of 
No. 9, Jiigmohan Mulliek Lane, Calcutta, a creditor of the 
company, and that the said petition is directed to he heard 
before the Court on the 26th day of February 1962. Any 
creditor, contributory or other person desirous of support- 
ing or opposing the making of an order mi the amd petition 
will send to the petitioner or its Solicitors notice of his 
intention signed by him or his advocate with his name and 
address, so as to reach the petitioner or its Solicitors not 
later than five days before the date fixed lor hearing*of the 
petition , and appear at the hearing foi the purpose in 
person or by his advocate. A copy of the petition will 
he furnished by the undersigned to any creditor or crnitri- 
butor.v on payment of the prescribed' charges for the 
same. 

Any affidavit intended to he used in opposition to the 
petition should be filed in court and a copy served on the 
petitioner or its solicitors not later than five da\s before 
the date fixed lor the hearing. 

Dated the 28th day of January 1962. 

NAHAR & DATTA, 
Attorneys for the petitioner. 
IB Old Post Office Street, 
Calcutta. 

( 01 - 1 ) 


30 


THE CAU’WTTA OAZKTTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


[Past n 


COMPANY PETITION No. 225 OF 1961 
IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
Ordinary Original Civil Jurisdiction 

in ilir mailer (li Companies Art . I^oti 
And 

1„ (ho manor of Nil. I’rnportios l’n.alo l.imito.l 
N,U IV.MH.rU> l’uv.,10 l.til.- IVtitio.ior 

Advertisement o{ hearing of Petition 

NOTK'K i> lioroiiy given that » 1^ 

11 m High f.H.rt .It * ” lr I ’ 1 .‘/"..f tin "« '.i. tel <•' »'•“** 

f,% ( ' W .U ho hoard 

oomi'am l">m 1" , , , .. ;,||) .lav 

IkiI'oio I ho ( "in i i •'Kim' 

Oi February 1 5 m2. 

Daii'd this 5 l.b dm nl diwnnirv 1962. 


viv person .utoioHteil in the said Company at a debenture 
I i (l< r i -editor or member thereof, or otherwise, * ho 
v ‘ i.;./ r „ oppose t lie making of an order confirming t} u . 

M i‘ Me-Muon should give notice of his intention and the 
.Mounds Oi bis objection in writing to the Attc/rneya of til „ 
i 'ompanv so as to reach them not later than the 15th d av 
j<fbruM n 1902 and should appear at tho time of tho 
( ,v m person or bv Advocate when he will be hean| 

\ enpv Oi i he said petition will he furnished to any RUf .}j 
mmig it on pigment of the prescribed charge 

ior the same. 

| i ...l this mli tiny of January 1962. 

ORB, DIGNAM & CO. 
Attorneys for the Petition^- 
29 Netaji Subhas Road, 
Calcutta. 

(tiO -1) 


m. \, mini 

At lot 1 1 1 • \ tor the above < ompanv. 

(45 1 ) 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 


Ordinary Original Civil Jurisdiction 

ni\li>\N\ IMVmiuN No. 2.U or 1961 

Mil I !» miili.'i "i tho Coiiipai'n^ G ' 1 1 " f 
And 

III l.lic m.ilti’i I" I .n.irioMin 'Uii (Vmipany I it* 1 '! 

IbH it if#nor. 


Notice of Hearing of Petition 

\OUrK c Inn etc given that a petition w«s on the 
* . . I > m .vii’ U\ \ 19''! iHVM'iiteil to Ine lion In.' lligifc 

't'!n i Hut - 1 l illvmi.i.-d On U . 

,1 oi tb-i Memoianduin m Association oi th 

' b omMll ^ ‘!r ij‘" "hi smn 

tlml .hum.. .! «! Jho ^mnn.mdum |.l A*- 
„| the I iiiii|niii> h«. nll.'H'.i !<•> u tin 

additional «>bje< I ■ as ioliovv s:~ 

“ID To Mihs-n... H'v. nl.solnl-.lv ;-r .•omiiuminlly, 
l, urcha.se oi (i'tfi. i* wise aeipiuc and to hold, dispose 
of >nd deal te shun™. s.orU and M*cimL»es or 
ohhgat ion v ol am other e*>inpiin> whether Indian 
or tomgn. 


“(k) To invest an\ uioncv s o: l he ('ompanv not for 
tiie turn I if i ng leiimreil lor au\ oi the pm poses 
(a the ( on i pan* in Midi nucsimcnls toihei tluni 
s|,., res oi : lock in the Compans ) as max be 
thought pi oper and to hold, sell oi oitionu e deal 
• with such investment-.. 


“(I) To undo”!. ike limwi. ..il and # cun.iu tv i.. 1 ohijpations 
1 1 ansae! ton and opci.mons el all 'metis. 


* * ( ,n > To advan-iv deposit - dh m lend leoerv. seeiiri- 
l.tes and pf.'pe: t \ t<- ic.'-ive man, or giants or 
deports liom the («u\ ei nmem . 

Resolved i'urtl.ei that IV* Ihmi.l ot Oire.d-rs ol the 
Companv l>e and ate l> ( i *bv a-utborised to take ail 
necessary steps 1 m ihe im; '••menial mn of the abnesaid 

alteration ot the Alemn amium t-f Assnciution of the 
('i/rnpam, inclnu«Mg ohiu.i uu the c(miiniiation then'oi 
hv ttie Court, m terms of ».«e nrovivionn •>} the Com- 
panies Aet, 19 *j(T ■ 

And not ce is further given that Hm s ; dd pent ion it 
directed to he heard before me •lodge taking Company 
Matter on Monday, th* 19th day ot February 1902, and 


WEST BENGAL FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
CALCUTTA 


NOTICE 


»T heieliv mitibed that Dr. H. H. Dull of 12 rOurb* 
Piu.-t, ( aiciiu.i-Jt), has been validly nominated fr/r eledf,,, 
a (Ihcm-m ni the < orporation to represent sehediilml 
!md .n, <1 •.ball In* deemed to he elected as Midi a-t the 
-pi'. ia! "eneral meet mg of 1 be Corporation to he held on 
id* :’2m 1 Januan l'bpj or an\ adjournment theteof. tltore 
p. ,„l mil \ mie valid m/minatioii received bv die 
i .it pm ,mon. 

( alcm l i, "Ih dauuiM-v I9C2. 

il. K. ROY, S ‘erelaiv 
ll 


slifil \.l IT K I M \ I? HOSE, IjL. 1L, intemF b. !, 
eto oiled <i.s an Advocate in the High Court at ( ibu'ii 


(918- li 


dlta R VMI.ILW \H\RWALA, B.Se.. LL IL, mj>vi 
it !:■ c tii o' led as an Vdvocate of the (kileutta High ( <»oi i 

(91!)- *i 


PR A> \I> SHARMA, LL.Tl., intends 
.milled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


10 


(DHMIj 

I 


.1 \\ Mil >11 AN, LL IL, intends to be 
CbtK.ile ol the Calcutta High Court. 


enrolled a* 

(927 — 


Sl'I’H AKASH HAN’DAOPADHYAY, LIj.B., intfnJ» 10 
S' I'litulli'd as an Advocate of the Calcutta High C° ur ■ 



l»v«T II J 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


31 


MOM BHUSAN SIRKAJt, LL.B.. intends 
. a, i* Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


intends to be enrolled 


(929—4) 


3HRJ NRIPENDRAKUMAR DE, B.L., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 

(17-4) 


S ll|{| NILBATAN KHAiTAN, LL.B., intends to be 
’,^ 11^1 ah an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(930 — 4) 


sum SI1IB SANKAR SARKAR, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate ol the High Court ot Calcutta. 


(18 — 4 ) 


HI.IOV KUMAR DIITTA, LL 
ls .hi Advocate ol the Calcutta 


LL.B.. intends to bo enrolled 
" High Court. 

(931—4) 


SHIM TAPAN KUMAR SEN GUPTA, LL.B., intends to 
be 1 enrolled as an Advocate in the High Court at Calcutta. 

(19—4) 


SH1U BHAGABATI PRASAD BANDYOPADHYAY, 
jj, |-t intends to be enrolled as an Advocate of the Cal- 

Court. (932 — 4) 


AN AND MAHARAJ, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(20 —4) 


sum BIIABES CHANDRA SARKAR intends to be 

KRISHNA CHANDRA GHOSH, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court, 
enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(933—4) (21 -4) 


nil'ITAH AN.JAN GANGULT, LL.B., intends to bo 
cnmllcd as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(934—4) 


^ Will AN A NAN DA M1SRA intends to be enrolled as 
,m Atlvixatc ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(935 — 4) 


s, 'l>llllt KUMAR. SEN GUPTA, B.L., intends to bo 
""Ui'd ,i,| Advocate of tho Calcutta Higb Court. 

(0 — 4) 


J, '* IT MlMAll MlIKIfOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends to 
10 h'd as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

( 10 — 4 ) 


SHR1 4ASODAKITMAR ROY, B.L., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(22—4) 


A. Q. M. ABU NASER, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of tho Calcutta High Court. 

(29 — 4) 


B1 BliUTl BHUSAN RAY CJIOUDHURY, LL.B., intends 
to be enrolled as a*n Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(30-4) 


S \NKAIt DAS GUPTA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 31 — 4 ) 



.32 


TIIE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


[Part n 


I'RAPHIILUA KUMAIt MA.TUMDAB, LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta* Jligh Court. 

(32-4) 


ANIL KUMAR (UIOSII, LL.B , intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate ol the Calcutta Hiudi Court. 

(h:l- 4) 


1, JAY ANT A M A.I HMD \IL LL IT. mleud to enrol as 
an Advocate ol tin llieli Court, Calcutta. 

(31- 1) 

KKDVR NATII DATTA, B Com., LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate ol tbe Calcutta liijdi Court. 

(on- -1) 


GOVINl) NARAYAN KAKRA, M.A., LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate ol tin* Caleutta lli^b Court. 

(51 -4) 


SAURKNDRA MOHAN ILVSU, ALA., LL.B , intends to 
be enrolled as a*n Advocate e.l tbe Calcutta 1 J ij^li Court. 

(52-1) 


DWIPKNDR A NATII 1)10, LL.B., intends to be enrollod 
as an Advocate of tbe Calcutta llieli Court. 

(53- -i) 


SATYA NARAYAN DANGAlCH, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advotah- of tbe Caleutta High Court. 

(51-1) 


RAM \ BAN.! AN MUKHOPA DTIYAY, LL.B., intends 
to be enrolled as an Advocate of tin* Calcutta Hij*h Court. 

(55 — 4) 


BAM LAL A1LND1TBA, LL.JL, intends to be enrolled 
as im Advocate ol the Calcutta li i^h Court. 

(ofL A) 


SlIBi CYAN ( 'll AND lvASKRA, LT.B., intend, L, be 
enrolled as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High (’cant. 

(37 -1) 


HA HINDU \ KUMAR N \G, LL.B., intends to be 
admitted as an Advocate n tin* High Court at Calcutta 

( 68 — 4 ) 


M UNDR A KU.MAB ADHYA, LL.B., intends to j 
enrolled as a*n Advocate of tbe Calcutta High Court. 

(60—4) 

<?Wl 

wwa I 

JlJffRl \pWsp i 

v'li'-iHi ’i-Oum-.m- SI-IH i h$c®es pi, Hifc-ra v,? ^ |i; 

WliT/Tf 1 *IKt'il ^flftb *I1C*BI td^l ^ 

>]-ICd STGIWG?' 

bjr.ii*| ih.U >id ^ b=41 >Td ^fto J|[r/.j,T 

O^aSI Wlb' v PC r '0 ^14 ^Tdl C4WT ?§fldl <IC* T fFT 3 ^ ^5C<1 I 
Cdhll^ i^r HIT <A$(Sj £R?T d’Cdd, 3TSO Sdlftrd 

*fim i ctw Am =n m ^ 

sum 2ui\5ci «rrtw i aw w 

\513>1W uWK to) A tfad Rfafrj A\ACs> .jp 
CdlTO \d~dra W«TT4 I §Iv»— 

c*ffar? 

o pf’iw 

(*> dT&dT^I 
i*) mjw 
(o) 

( k ) dicrr^ 
ic<) faw-nk 

<ft) 

(q) wtaw 
<\t) TO1T51 
Ha) nl$q*c;te 
(bo) c*t<m 

(**) 

<^0) dil'Efdld ffr&lWST 
( bs j ifimU 

(bft) 

'l f \) 

( bb* ) farfto 

W^lidd’TO 

(^0) 

«5}o) ^?Ki c i c 1^5cT?n 


f^vsfvl 
5j[l 1 


SHU1 MUKUL GHOSH, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(59 1) 



33 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


NOTICE 

.. U K .^mounts standing to the credit of the respective 
| ls gainst which they appear in the list hereunder have 
^'Omhle to he lapsed to the State Government under 
pjiclairned Deposits Act (XXV of 1866), no claim 
J ! ' lllf r been made in respoct of any of these amounts 
l^rinii a period of 20 years or more. 

| [mid rule 50- A, Chapter XXI V (Money Rules) of the 
l i, ia i| Sale Rules of this Court, an application will he 
1)( f, i»v I lie Registrar, High Court, Original Side, Calcutta, 
the llon'blc .Judge taking interlocutory matters on 


iuesday, the 27th day of March 1962, for transferring the 
said sums to the credit c/f the Government. 

Any pci son having n claim in respect of any of the said 
amounts should gi\ e notice to the undersigned of his claim 
on or he! ore the 27th day of February 1<H32, and obtain an 
Order oi Court for payment after proving his claim. 

Dated the 9th .January 1962. 


K. I,. IHTTT. Registrar, 

High l*oii rt , Original Side, (Calcutta. 


List of outstanding amounts in Deposit Account lying unclaimed tor more than 20 years and are liable to be 
lapsed to the Government of the State. 


S»Wlill 


Cause I iMo. 


I 10\. Case F. F. ( V>opor IV L. Adler 
> 1107/33 IVTohiinhil Mukundulal IV Nilvhil Ch. Bono 

■{ 1/31 House of Labours Ltd. I V Steel Corpn. Ltd. 

\ |ti the matter of Pouch Consolidated Coal Co. Ltd. (In Liqii.) 

. (;:p.l/;i2 French Motor Cur Co. Ltd. IV Bjbhuf i Rh. Roso & Anr. 

U s (»o/34 Sm. S. Dobi IV C. C. Nandi 
7 707/28 Ivarnani Industrial Rank IV Laurel Novelty 

s i,, the matter of Arakan Light Railway 
ii j 7 1 fi /2 1 Suudermull <£r Ors. IV J. C. Oulstan 
in 1814/27 M. R.vsnck TV. R. Sudhukhan 
U 7/30 P. F. Thinner IV TI. A. Fhumer 
1 * 2 10/30 R. Charnria IV M. Rliakat 

,; { Arbitration Birla, .lute Mills Co. IV Cbiranji Lai Onkormull 

14 r, 0(1/31 Ka/.lul Karim IV A. R. Mohammed 

i- |,, 1 1 it' matter of Sir R. N. Mookorjoo TV Commr. of Income Tax 
II. 113/32 A. A. Pal Cbowdliury IV N. N. Clmkruvurty 
17 r»o7/23 John Rutt <V Co. IV D. Ivedar Dass .. 

I , ^300/31 n. (Joeiika I’.v R. Goonka 

l*i M to/31 P>. IL Dutt IV Syam Slimier liesc 

y I00O/3I Aruokl & Co. IV Jt. liadrinaraiu 

jl 10S0/3I \rnold & Co. TV Surajmull Onkormull 

'l l l 3130/30 R. Rania TV. JL C. Kundu 

l'.\ I3S/30 M. L. Mullick F.v. R. K. Gbose 

JJ In 1 1 io matter ut K. N. Rotbra 

y J{i> Arbitration P. Sroekisson JV K. Bhutorm 


Amount . 


Securities. 


T otal 


< ’ash. 

Rs. id'. 

500-00 
023 12 
750-00 
257 * 04 
212-50 
33 - 85 
9-50 
035 • S3 
020-47 
38 00 
2 1 • 00 
200-50 
250-00 
500-00 

4.000- 00 
300-72 
400-00 

1 . 000 - 00 
202 • J 2 
405-00 
500-00 

70 ■ 84 
575-75 
071-44 
400-00 

13,830-42 


! standing 
from 


27-4-1035 

20- 7-1035 
13-11-1035 

0-12-1035 

21- 4-1030 
MO-1035 

1031 
27-1 1032 

21- 3-1032 
20-0-1031 

April, 1032 
8-7-1031 
4-8-1031 
20-9-1031 

22- 0-1032 
July, 1033 

17-8-1032 

24-3-1033 

14-8-1033 

0-0-1933 

8- 0-1933 

9- 8-1933 
10-7-1934 

12 12-1933 
14-9-1933 


STATE BANK OF INDIA 


FORM No. 1.51 


Calcutta, January 1, 1962 


NOTICE 


I Hi. billowing appointments on tlic Rank’s staff are 
notified — 


s,iI1 -J N. Datta, Staff Assistant, to he Agent, Burn- 
l'ia branch, as from the 22nd November 1961, vice 
s ‘"i A. K. Ray. 

Sl||I; H. I\ Tiwari to art j*s Head Assistant, Accounts 
department, Calcutta Local Head Office, as irom the 
Nli lb comber 1961, vice Shri S. R. Basil. 

V|1 | \ Bose, Sub-Accountant, to act as Accountant, 
HNBtmngo Branch, Calcutta, a-s irom the 14th 
1)1 'Haa 1901 , vice Khri S. P. Topader. 

ll1 !, N"- Mustaphi, Staff Assistant, to be Agent, 

Branch, as from the 15th December 1961. 
Ur «' s *«ri J. N. Datta. 


By order, 

B. K. K ACKER. 
Secretary and Treasurer. 


(41-1) 


(See Rule 315) 

COMPANIES ACT, 19.30 

MEMBERS’ VOLUNTARY WINDING-UP 

Notice of appointment of liquidator pursuant to section 516 

Name ol Company: llaydan Commercial and Indus- 
trial Corporation Ltd. 

Nature oi Business* General Merchants. 

Address oi Registered Office 17 Sagar Dutt Lane 
Calculi a. 

Name and address ol Liquidator. Shri S. Abbashai 
L Saga*! Dull Lane, Calcutta. 

Date ol appointment: 29tl» December 1961. 

IB "horn appointed B\ an Ext raurdinm \ General 
Meeting held on 29th December 1961. 

(44-1) 



T1IE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


84 


t p A* T j 


LOST 

THE Government Promissory Notes Nos. CA195;^o . 
CA 195300 of the 3 per cent, loan of 1946 for Rj». 1 )()00 
originally standing in tlie name of Sm. Panna Bala Da' 
the proprietress, hy whom they were never endorsed 7 
any other person, having been lost, notice is hereby i 
that payment of the above notes and the interest tLj 
upon have been stopped at the Public Debt Office, j( e ^ 
Bank of India, Calcutta, and that application i 8 al>om ’] 
he made lor the issue of duplicates in favour of nj 
proprietress. The public are cautioned against purely ,3 
or otherwise dealing with the abovementioned securities? 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, 1958 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF A880CIATED CL0THIER8 
PRIVATE LTD. 

(In member*' voluntary windlng-up) 

AT an Extraordinary General Meeting ol the share- 
holders oi the abovenamod Coin puny duly convened and 
held at ‘21 Old Copit House Street, Calcutta, on Saturday, 
the Gth January 1902, the tollowing resolution was duly 
passed : 

“Resolved hy this Special Resolution that the aflairs 
ol Associated Clothiers Private Ltd., Calcutta, ho 
and hereby wound up voluntarily hy the members 
themselves »nd that Messrs. Krishan Singh Malik 
and Ujjal Singh lie and are hereby appointed as the 
Joint Liquidators thereof toi the purpose ol its 
winding up affairs and distributing assets, without 
any remuneration.” 

Calcutta, the 8th Junuary 1902. 

UJJAL SINGH, 
for Self iund Co-Liquidator. 

(40—1) 


COMPANIES ACT, 1950 

MEMBERS' VOLUNTARY WINDING-UP 

Noiioe ol appointment of Liquidators pursuant to 
section 516 

Name of Company Associated Clothiers Private Ltd. 

Nature ol Business: Tailors and Outfitters. 

Address oi Regd. Office: 21 Old Court House Street, 
Calcutta. 

Naums and addiesscs ol Liquidators: (1) Shri Krishan 

’ Singh MMik, 4 Blmgawandas Road, New Delhi, 
(2) Sliri U ijal Singh, 3 Bhagawamlas Road, New 
Delhi. 

Date oi Appointment- 0th January 1902. 

By whom appointed: By the members ol the company 
at an Extraordinary General Meeting held on Gth 
January 1902. 

IUJAL S1NG11, 

Eor Sell and Co-Liquidator., 

(47-1) 


IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 1956 
The Coal Suppliers Limited (In Liquidation) 

AH an extinordinary General Meeting oi the abovenamod 
Company held ut the Registered Office at i/A Vansittart 
Row, Caleulta, on the 21st December 1901, the following 
resolution was passed as a special resolution: 

“That the Company he wound up under the procedure 
of Creditors’ voluntary winding up and that Shri A. 
D. Banoriee of I /A Vansittart Row is hereby 
appointed Liquidator with all the powers given by 
law and in particular the powers under clauses fa) 
to (d) of section 457(1) oi tlm Companies net, 19._»0, 
free of any remuneration”. 

The (V»l Suppliers Limited (in Liquidation). 

A L. BANKUJEE, 

Liquidator. 


Signature of the Advertiser: *f:£JT 3MT ffpil \ 


Residence: C/o Shri Apt Kumar Paul, Pwthak Lane P( 
Chuisura, district Hooghly (West Bengal). ’ ’ 

(42-- 


L08T, STOLEN OR DE8TR0YED 
(AS THE CASE MAY BE) 

THE Government Promissory Note No. CAO 21700 
the 3 per cent, loan of 1890-97 for Ks. 5,000 ongma 
standing m the name of Amiya Lata Datta, the propueur 
hy whom it was never endorsed to any other pet sr 
having been lost, notice is hereby given that paynirnt 
the above note and the interest thereupon him- U> 
stopped at the Public Debt Office, Reserve Bank ol hidi 
Calcutta, and that application is about to he made lot t 
issue ot duplicate in favour of the proprietress ] 
public are cautioned against purchasing or oLlimi 
dealing with the abovementioued security. 


AMIYA LATA DATTA. 

4 Garpar Road, Calcutta-9. 

(IV 


LOST, 8TOLEN OR DESTROYED 

THE Government Promissory Note No. 204012 ol tj 
■H per cent, loan of 1900-01 for lls. 100 originally standi 
in the name ol Kumar Arun Chandra Singha uml frijg 
Manindra Chandra Singha, exeoutors of Chandianiowj 
Dassi, end lust endorsed to Labannya Prova J)asi« J 
proprietor, by whom it was never endorsed to any oljj 
person, having been destroyed, notice is hereby given tot 
payment ol the above note and the interest tliereu|< 
have been stopped at the Public Debt Office, Reserve 
ol India, Calcutta, and that application js nbwiit to C 
imule for the issue of duplicate in favour of the propriety 
The public are cautioned against purchasing or ollw 
dealing with the abovementioned security. 

LAUANNYA PROVA M si 
w/o Kalipada Sinha. 

P.O. Kandi, .Til.dliarpara- 
diatiifit Murahidabad (Wfst UpW 


(43 — 1) 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


35 


THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA 

NOTICE is hereby given under sections 118 end 1 19 of tho Calcutta Port Act, III of 1890. and soctions 55 and 5(i of the Indian 
j.il«'iiys Act, IX of 1890, that tho undermentioned goods if not removed on or before Oth February 1962 on payment* of ell clmrires 
| u0 will be 8«W by public auotion on tho 7tli and 8th Fobruary 1962 at Kantupukur and Oudh North Dump from 9-30 a.m". each day. 

u , tH will remain opon to exhibition for intending buyers between 10-30 a.m. and 2-30 pan. on the 2nd, 3rd, and 6tli February 
902 at t.ho respective points where tlioy are lying. J 

Under no ciroumstanoos should any lot be open to exhibition beyond 5th Fobruary 1962. 

Auction will be hold at Kantupukur irrospoctivo of the location of the lots save and oxcopt ore lots which will be sold on 8th Fobru- 


ry iDliii at Oudh North. 


UNCLAIMED GOODS 


Quantity and description. 


Particulars. 


Consignoo. 


Whoro lying. 


I ] Handle Rubber lloso pipe 
o jo Pi(H!Os Tin Roof Channels 

3l 1 1’kg. M /- DUN 
17. ] Hag Stone 
]]_ 2 Pioeos Logs 

j2 4 Pioces Porcelyno pipes (broken) 


^3. 2 Pin' Extinguisher 


34. 2 Oates (broken) 
ft CoskH M /. C 47, COR 

JO. 2 Bags. M/.CTC 691/20 

55. I Drum Uoul Tar M/-1IOM/103-1C 


!W 2 Drums (empty) 


j!t 2 Cots 

;j Pieros Old G. C. Shoots M/-RGL 85/5 
I )1I AE. 

9ii. 1 Package M/-ASR 3723/ 1C 


1 1 Piece Wooden Sleeper M /- JAAJ / 1 /C . . 


19 Pioeos Pine fi 


Sleopors 


h* 10 B % r « Comont M/-S.K.G. 6120/ 10/C 
^ 309 Bags Whittings 
^3A. i() Drums (empty) 


^ 4G3 Bags Cement 


A. quantify of Gravel 
SfJuROa M/-I. E. W. Madrass 
• 1 Case M /-Raipur R 35 
1 Pioc * Tabular Pole 


0 M/Logs 

60 Rage Kunda 


Unconnoctod 

Unloadod at A, KPD ox Wg. El 25332 
of 14-2-50. 

Unconnoctod 

Unconnoctod 

Unconnoctod 

Unloadod at B, KrD on 16-11-53 ex 
CP Van CR 15844. 

Unloadod at A KFD ox El 38553 of 
15-5-47. 


Unloaded at A KGD ox. Wg. No. NR 
019007 on 14-8-54. 

Unconnected 

Unloaded at A KPD ox. Wg. No. ER 
77371 on 15-9-59. 

Unloaded at A KPD ox. OP Wg. No. 
WR 31778 on 2-1-59. 

Unloaded at A KPD ex. HWH. Van 
No. CR 05017 ori 23-3-59. 


Unloaded at A KPD ox. CP Wg. No. 
CR 52394 on 10-7-59. 

Unloadod at- A KPD ox. CP. Wg. No. 
NR 72352 on 12-11-59. 

Unloaded at A KPD ox. Wg. No. NR 
45237 on 13-2-60. 

Unloaded at A KPD ox. CP Wg. No. 
WR 17632 on 5-3-60. 

Unloadod at 2 GRJ from F. Wg. No. 
ER 34587 ox. J. T. L on 17-4-57. 

Unloaded at B KPD ex. F. Wg. No. 
GIP 17043 on 5-6-53. 


Ex .TNK to Jorhat Town. INV No. 3 
of 7-1 1-60. Ff Wg. No. NR 67990 on 
23-11-60. 

Ex. Unknown in CR 36557 on 18-9-59. 

Unconnected 

Unconnected 

Ex. WB (Bombay) R/R No. 340654 of 
12-10-55 from GRC Van No. CR 
39090 on 28-1-57. 

INV. No. 47/146087 of 12-3-60. F/Wg. 
No. SR 13467 on 29-4-60. 

Ex. SEONI in Wg. No. ER 3588 on 
9-1-56. 


C, KF. 
G, KF. 
G, KF. 
G, KF. 


G, KF. 


G, KF. 
G, KF. 


G, KF. 


G, KF. 


G, KF. 


G, KF. 


G, KF. 


G, KF. 


G, KF. 


G, KF. 


G, KF. 


T, KF. 
LMD, KF. 
LMD, KF. 
2 GRJ. 


GMA, KF. 


THE CALCUTTA OAZKTTH. JANUARY 18, 1962 [p A(tl 


Serial Quantity and dcHeription. 

No. 

Particulars. Consignee. 

Where lying. 

J 1 2 Empty tea Chests 

Unloaded from foreign Wagons under 

LIMA, KF. 

\,inoiiH garden marks and invoices. 


16. Ono wagon Yellow Hand wt 2 tons (approx) Contents of EK 12801) • ■ • ■ • • 

10 KPD. 

65. 1 ling ('/ 1 Jones (excess) 

Ex. Narela F/wg. No. 9158 on 18-9-55 J. Songupta 

• • OMA, KF. 


INN’. 25/918653 of 10 9-55. 


66. 1 Hag 0/ Hones . . 

. . Ex. Kapur F/wg. No. 74355 on 22- 12-57 

GMA, KF. 

18. Ono wagon Sand 

Ex. F/wg. SE SD4 on 3-7-56 - . 

On dh North. 

25. Ono wagon Stone boulders 

F/wg. SK 1 1571 on 3-12-58. . . ... 

Oudh North. 

70. ( )no wagon Logs 

F/wg. No. EH 66771 on 4-7-56. - . 

Oudh North. 

72. One wagon Logs 

. . I'/w'g. No. SE 2 1392 on 6 6-56. . 

Oudh North. 

1 ID. Ono wagon Stone 

. . E\. P/wg. EK 16176 on IS- 10 58. 

Oudh North. 

120. One wagon M/ore 

. . Ex. F/wg. No. El 38291 on 30-5-54. 

Oudh North. 

121. Oim wagon C/oro 

E\. F/wg. No. PA 1 1221 on 15 10 51 

Oudh North. 

122. Ono wagon I /ore 

.. E\. F/wg. No EH 13811 on 10-7-55. 

Oudh North. 

128. One wagon I /ore 

Ex. JJKlt F/wg No. Nil 39425 on .... 

21-7-55. 

Oudh North. 

124. One wagon I /ore 

. Ex. .LIKE F, we. No 89842 on 21-7-55. 

Oudh North. 

125. One wagon I /ore 

. . F/wg. CK 1 6849 on 15-9-55 . . 

Oudh North. 

126. One wagon 1 /ore 

. . F/wg. EH 61157 on 1-12-55 . . 

Oudh North. 

127. One wagon 1 /ore 

.. Ex. .J.1KK F/wg. No. EH 2031 on 

4 12-55. 

Oudh North. 

128. Ono wagon 1 /ore 

F/wg No. SE 29321 on 15-6-56. . . .... 

Oudh North. 

12D. Ono wagon M/ore 

. . F/wg. No. SU 8153 on 12-8-56 . . .... 

Oudh North 

180. Ono wagon T/oro 

. . F/wg. No. SE 21 SHI on 23-1 1-57 . . .... 

Oudh North. 

J 8 1 . One wagon ore 

. . F/wg. No. Nil 39362 on 18-12-57 . . 

Oudh North. 

182. One wagon l/otv 

. . F/wg. No. SE 377 25 on 18 5-58 . .... 

Oudh North. 

183. One wagon M /ore 

. . Ex. K.IM1) F/wg. No EH 91317 mi 

Oudh North. 


29-8-58. 

134. One wagon 1 /ore 

.. E\. Knldia F vg No. \VH 38684 on 

J 3-5 59. 

Oudh North. 

135. One wagon 1 /ore 

F/wg. No. Cll 96147 on 19-4-60 

Oudh North. 

136. One wugon ore . . 

.. Ex. H.IMD F;\vg. No. EH i 9943 on 

18 9. 

Oudh Noith. 

137. Ono wagon ore 

F/ we No EH 9791)6 on 4-5-60 

Oudh North 

138. Ono wagon I /ore 

• • F*- tUKH F,wg No. Eli. 61325 on 

14-6-60 

Oudh North. 

139. One wagon oro 

f 

- . F-wg. No. SH 23824 on 23-6-60 

Oudh North. 

140. Ono wagon oro 

• • F/wg. No. KR 80943 on 15-10-60 

Oudh North. 

144. Ono wagon sand 

. . F/wg. No. EK 02755 on 22-4-56 

Oudh North. 

146. One wagon gravel 

- F/wg No. Cll 23388 on 27-8-60 

Oudh North. 

151. Ono wagon Logs 

• F;\\ g. No CU 39204 on 26-7-56 

Oudh North. 

152. 16 Pieces Logs 

• • F « No. PE 28001 on 5-7 60 

Oudh North 

153, 11 Pieces Logs . , 

• F wg No. SE 1 8163 on 29-7-60 

Oudh North. 

155. 52 Pieces Legs 

■ Fug. No. CK 80283 ex. AOX, on 

19-8-60. 

Oudh North. 

156. 66 Pieces Log;-, . . 

• F/wg. No. Ell 66113 mi 20-8 60 ox 

ADX. ’ 

Oudh North- 



I'.UJT TI] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


37 


^, rul | Quantity and description 

Xu. 

Particulars 

Consignee 

Where ly;ng 

j -, 7 . 2 Piocoa Logs 

. . Ex F/Wg. No. OH 3G345 on 4-S-GO . . 


Oudh North. 

!'()_ 02 Piocoa Logs . . 

. . Ex F/Wg. No. ER 7807G on 3-10-00 
ox c.c. 


Oudli North. 

pjil. 2 Piocoa Logs 

. . Ex HOP contents of NR 34004 (T/,S 
ox F /Wg. 38400) unloaded at 2 O It J 
on 24-2-00. 


Oudh North. 

jO-j. 31)1 Pieces Sleepers 

Unloaded at 2 GRJ from F/Wg. No. 
NW 17153 on 8-1-GO. 


Oudh North. 

47 Pieces Logs .. 

. Ex F/Wg. No. SE 2G4I4 on 30-5-GO . . 


Oudh North. 

Hlj. 2 Pieros Logs 

Ex F/Wg. No. ER 53423 on 22-8-59 . . 


Oudh North. 

llij. a- Pieces Logw . . 

Ex Malwal to Chetla Inv. No. 2 of 
7-5-00 F/Wg. No. CR 54990 on 
31-5-GO. 

Roy iV. Co. 

Oudh North. 

Kill. -17 Pieces Logs 

Ex (4 nr hi umli to Chetla F/Wg. No. 
ER 51082 on 12 7-G0. 


Oudh North. 

in l. A quantity of M/ore 

Contents of F/Wg. No. CR 378G on 
29-8-50. 


JH, KPD. 

iu;>. One Wagon i /ore 

. F/Wg. No. ER 420G3 on 28-0-57 


R, KPD. 

10t> One Wagon 1 /ore 

. F/Wg. No. WR 39G91 on 27-0-57 


B, KPD. 

HIV. One Wagon I /ore 

. F/Wg. No. SE 41538 on 1 7-8-57 


B, KPD. 

7i,. One Hag Sugar .. 

. KtHTW R /R No. 34/420183 of 
5-3-00. F/Wg. No. 45455 on 14-3-00. 


W, KF. 

77 One Hag Sugar .. 

. Ex GRL Inv. 73/002581 of 3! -3-GO 
F/Wg. No. 55452 of 11-4-00. 


W, KF. 

(S. 1 Hugs Sugar 

Ex MW F /Wg. No. 00053 unloaded at 

A, KPD on 24-2-00. 


W, KF. 

vi One Hag Sugar Wt. 2K Nrs. (a]>i»rox.) 

Unloaded at A, KPD from F/Wg. 
No. 74505 on 27-5-00. 


W, KF. 

il 1 Hugs Mum Waste 

Ex KQR F/Wg. No. G0995 on 

J 5-5-58. 


R, KF. 


\- ( t,rr • hnvby gi veil u 1 1 < i < » r Sect ions 118 mid 119 of Urn Calcutta Port, Act TM of 1890 that the undermentioned goods 
[ |I HOI I'-movocl on or Irnimv tlm Gth February 1902 on payment of all charges duo, will ho wold by public auction on tho 7th and 8% 
Fdiniury I ilGl? at. Kimtapukur and Oudli North Dump from 11-30 a.m. each day. 


Quant 1 ty and description 

I'articuhn-H 

Consignee 

Whore lying 

1 1 H.igs M\ mholums 

Ex Stock 


G, KF. 

1 Orm Old Motor 

Ditto 

.... 

G, KF. 

*' Oil" Spring 

Ditto 


G, KF. 

1 - Huirs Holts and Nuts 

Ditto 


G , KF. 

** One Hag Mica Scrap M/Duruka in a block 

S/O Curgo of S/S Troja Voy. Jan. 1 955 

Wooma & Co. 14/2 

G, KF. 



Old China Bazar 




Street. 


^ f l u &ntiby of Horse Burs 

Ex Stock 


G, KF. 

p ' snmll cylinder . . 

Ditto 


G, KF. 

Hue Humlle pipe 

Ditto 


G, KF. 

° ru ^endloM/WHH, BKG Shahmar, etc. 

Ditto 


G, KF. 

Ora- Wooden Package 

Ditto 


G, KF. 

8s l: ‘iiu K ,n u#u .. 

Ditto 


G , KF. 

1 °ui' It.ij. Myrnholum 

Ditto 


G, KF. 

.. 

Ditto 


G , KF. 

*' f)l "- C.i«k Jtiuo 

Ditto 


G , KF. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUAK* 


17V*< 



Consignee 


Whoio lying 


Serial Quantity and doaoription 

No. 

42. Ono Empty Cylinder 

43. ft Gunny bundle** 

44. 5 Bund lew 

86. 2 Bagn Mica Wan to 

87. Ono Bag powder M/-S1R Co/TE/Coohin 
Ono Empty C»ho M/-HLL Cochin 
Ono Empty Bag M/-JRC S. pur 

98. Ono Empty Cano M /-GEO Madras 

101. 21 Bags fortilwer M/-XXXX Hand in 

Shaking U.S.A. 

102. 25 DtuinH (3 partly empty and 4 empty) 

15. Oiu> Drum Morohundiso (<nouUi open) .. 
172A. A quantity of oro 

10. A quantity of oro 

14. 4 Bimdloft BuokotB 

83. A quantity of oro 
A quantity of oro 

57. Ono Hag My rolialani M. Naruyuu SW 14 

84 A. Ouo Bmpt-y On*. M. BM1. Now York 
1724. 

81. A quantity of oro 

82. A quantity of oro 

74. A quantity of Stono oliip». Wt. 05 tons 

approx. 

75. A quantity of Clay Wt. 304 tons approx. 

63 Ono Drum Diamfooting fluid (Leaky) 
M/-NTL- 

64. A quantity of pipe** 

68. A quantity of broken pipoa 

26. 2 Bund los Buckets M/-N d • • 

27. 2 Bundles Black Salt 

73. Ono Package Wheat Grinding Stone 
(broken). 

109. A. quantity of I/oro Wt. 10 torn. 1 Owt. 

3 Qr. (approx.). 

110. A quantity of I/oro Wt. 17 torn. 3 Owt*. 

(approx.). 

111. A quantity of I/oro V't. IS wins (approx.) 

112. A quantity ofM /oro Wt 18 torn. (approx.) 

113. 34 Bales Raw Jute 

113A. 1 Bale Hemp . . 




O, KF. 

Ditto 


G, KF. 

Ex Stock 


G, KF. 

Ditto 


G, KF. 

Ditto 


G, KF. 

Ditto 


G, KF. 

Ditto 


G, KF. 

Ditto 

S/O (largo of s/s Buy Andaman Voy. 
May 60 . 

„ f wk .hw Laxmi Voy. 

S/O Cargo of b/^ 

Aug. 1900. 

DEC of India 
Ltd. 

Mitm Shipping 

(P.) G, KF. 

. . G, KF. 

G, KF. 

Uuoomuiot od . ■ 

S/C Cargo of S/S Chilka Voy. Boo. 1 958 
Content, of 2 pi~» wagonn lying 

M . M • & Co . 

. . 3 KPD. 

T, KF. 


Content* of 1 ptana Wg. lying «»- 
connected. 

S/O Gargo of S/S Haidar Voy. April 
I960. 

Unconnected . . 

Unooimootod . . 

S/O Gargo of S/S Ghyl.asaa 

S/O Cargo of S/S Rxhil.itor 

Ex Stock 

ContontH of 1 PC Wg lying <■«- 
connected . 

Gontonts of 4 PC Wg*. lying »»• 
connected. 

ContontH of 2 PC Wg». lying un- 
oonneoted. 

K/O Cargo of S/S Ind. Common*. Vo.V 
April 1950. 

Unconnected . . 

Ditto 

S/O Cargo of S/S Ray Andamian . 
S/O Cargo of S/S Clan Maobran 

S/O Cargo ol S/S MiUru Maru 

S/O Cargo of S/S Hoogkerk. Voy 
Nov. 1952. 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Contents of 1 PC Wg. lying un- 
connected. 

Uncon. looted . 

Ditto 


LMD, KF. 

]Vf . L. Shrof • • LMD, KF. 

LMD, KF. 
LMD, KF. 
GMA, KF. 
GMA, KF. 

DLT, KF. 
lota, KF. 

Oudh North. 

Oudb North. 

R, KF. 

R, KF. 

R, KF. 

B, KPD. 

M/S James Finlay & B, KPD. 
Co. 

b,kpd. 

B, KPD. 

B, KPD. 

B, KPD. 

B, KPD. 


B, KPIL 
B, KPD. 

A. P. McMAHON. 
Traffic 

(ll- 1 * 


Dated tho 18th February 1902. 



Registered No. C207 






PAPSA 28 J 


THURSDAY, JANUARY 18, 1962 


iSAKA 1883 


PART IA— Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India, and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 
and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India” are onlv 
f republished. y 

USTOF LICENCES ISSUED UNDER THE INDUSTRIE! ■ (DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) ACT. 1951, FOR THE WEEK ENDING 

11 in NOVEMBER 1961. 

Xu,,, ami full mid runs of Urn undertaking (and Arli.-l.-s ot mam. far turn and capacity (and Inc, no. numb.-, and data 
location. tAMki ofliarnmnw. NTT T IK L' fr U II sll. .Vr UU ,UlQ aiiU ’* 


t.ypo of licence i.c. NU/NE/COIi, Shifting). 

Schtf. Ind. No. 7(7) — Transportation, such as Forklift Trucks. 


Mt-8ST8 Curler Poclor A' (’o. 
Pi i vul » ' Ltd., fallout tu (West 
Bi'j^.il). 


I turn of mitnufactmv. 


Present- Annual 

unnual expansio 

installed capacity, 

capacity. 


Annual Annual JL/7(7)/l /61-AE1, 28-10-61. 

expansion installed 

capacity. capacity 

aft.«u 

OX pHJlslon. 


1. DioHt'l and petrol powered 7 S Noh. .. 78 Nos. .. 150 Nos 

Fork lift Trucks. j 

(Diesel and potroJ powered 
Forklift Trunks of 1,000 
Kgs. to 6,000 Kgs. capa- 
city.) 

2. Electric powoiod sfachois Nil .. 150 Nos. 

and pallet, platform typo 

Forklift Trucks (1,000 Kgs. 
to 8,000 Kgs. capacity). 

3. Sparc parts and accessories Jin 3,60,000 Ks. 6,40,000 Its. luhith* 

of such borklift Trucks. worth per worth per worth per 

yoai . yoar. your. 

( Sn bst ant i al E x pans ion ) . 

- OF LICENCES ISSUED UNDER THE INDUSTRI ES IDEV ELOE H E N T AND REGULATION, ACT, ,851, DURING THE WEEK 

Schd. Ind. No. 1A<5)- Equipment for gensration, Transmission, etc. 

Annual ra j tacit if. 

'("It uik, rU 2l' ,,1 NHaji ’■ L,,W V °" a8 ” U I' <' K0 KM ' .. I 11/fl. t’l’-in.fl. 

.^'-"..udouUalWoHt 2. Special purpose uitomators up l» 50 41- Non. p. a. 

KW no Trake sots. 


I ‘ ( I , !A 8 / 1 J ]/ci. p.fl 


3. Switchgear . . . . . . 39,640 Ncs. p. a. 

4. Ekotrio Motors (8. E.) .. .. 36,720 H. F. p. a. 

Sehii. Ind. No. 5(4)— Electrical Lamps 




S'-ti.j, ,s'„u , c ! er Rnuso, annum. (N. TJ.). 

Cal - 


i . ;r, ( l > '« r./ kei ;o i , so- 1 o-6i . 



8 


TJIK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


[Part ia 


The Declaration Forms (Form C) as noted below are reported to have been lost, stolen or destroyed 
from the custody of the dealers to whom they were issued: 


Serial No. of do- Name and address of tho doulor with hi« registration 
No. claration Certificate No. to whom the declaration formH were 
form IohI, issued, 

stolen, tir 
destroyed. 


Nome of tho Officor who issued 
the forms to tho doalor and 
the da to of issue. 


Remarks. 


1 2 


3 


4 


(1) F/l. 050000 

(2) F. 320431 


Messrs. Raj Stores of Go l© -Bazar Bilaapur, R. (*. No. 
BSP/66 (Contral). 

Firm Badri Proaad Khrivoatava & Sons, Fort Road, 
Rown, R. C. No. RW/47 (Central). 


Sales Tax-Officer, Bilaspur, Lost. 

17-12-00. 

Sales Tax-Officer, Rowa, 13-4-61 Lost. 

L. K. C. HINGORANI, 

for Commissioner of Sales Tax, 
Madhya Pradesh. 


Lilt of lit* Rees issued 


under the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951- For the weeks ending 7th October, 

and 21st October 1961. 


14th Octet 


Name and full addn ss of I ho undertaking Articles of manufacture und ‘‘“T^y of Licence numbor aild dat 

(ami local urn) licence, i.e., Nl'/SL/RA /C OB /shifting. 

Scheduled Industries No. 2(1)— Coal, lignite, coke and their derivatives. 


The Administrate! , Durgapur Pioject, Washed Coal 
Government of West Bengal* New Secre- 
tariat Buildings, I Hast.ngb Street, Coke .. 

Calcutta- 1 . 

Coal tar 
Ammonia 

Total Benzol pur© and refined 
S.K. 


Monthly capacity- — 

60,000 tons L/2(l ) /I/O 1 -Chill, 4-10-C1. 

58,340 tons 
2,920 tons 
232 tons 
800 tons 


Scheduled Industries No. No. 5(4)— Electrical Lamps 


Electric Lamp Manufacture ( India) I* Ltd.. 
1 Tnratolla Itonil, Garden Reach, Cal- 
cutta- 24. 


For change of location of glass tube making plant 
from Shikohabad to Calcutta. 

(Shifting) 


L/5(4)/25/KEI/61, 3-10 6] 


Scheduled Industries No. 8 (A-6) Mining Machinery 

The Shah in ar Works Private Ltd., 1 Complete colliery haulages coinpris-ng Mechanical L/8/A-6/8/MKI/61, 6-9-01 
Foreshore Road, post office Shihpoie, poTt on, Electric Motors, Controller and Resistances 
Howrah, West Bengal. * The capacity w ill be determined on the basis of 

first year production. 

NLA. 


Scheduled Industries No. 8 (B.1) Size reduction equipment 

Kusum Engineering (V Lid., 25 Swallow .law crusher and Granulator, Hammer Mills, Coal L/8/B-1 /2/61 /ME! , 29-8*61. 
Lane, Calcutta- 1 . crushers, eic — Capacity to he fixed b^ Government 

after a year on the basis of actual production. 


N.A. 


Scheduled Industries No. 12(2) Hand tools small tools and the like 

Plastic* and Machinery Pint nbutors, 1 Moulds. Dies and 'fools — Capacity will he fixed up one L/12/2/38/MF3 /6J, 23 9-t'l 
Upper Ohitpur Rond, ( ‘aleui ta-7. year after the firm goes into production. 

N.r. 


Scheduled Industries No. 30(4) -Other rubber goods 

Danlop Rubber Co. (India; id*!.. 57 h Free Firt Resistant P .V. C. type Convey or Belting- 133,000 L/30(4)/5/IEJ(B)/Cl, B-lO-fil. 
School Street, Calcutta 16 running feet pier annum on single shift. 

S.E. 

Scheduled Industries No. 36(1)— Plywood 

Andaman Timber Ind-.isti m s Ltd.. 26 Clnmgeof location from 34/1 Bnrruekpore Trunk Road L/36(l)/35/ChIV/61, 25-9 (i1, 
Chittarnnjan Avenue, Caleuttn-12. Calcutta, to village Garn])ur, poJiee-Ktalion Mahes- 1 y '> 1 

tala, near Behala, 24-Parganas, West Bongal. 

(Shifting).; 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


9 


Pabt IA] 


of cancelled declaration forms under the Central 
1 Sales Tax Act, 1956 

In pursuance of the provisions of sub-rule (9) of 
rule 8 of the Uttar Pradesh Central Sales Tax 
tules, 1957, it is notified for general information that 
t k e following declaration forms [in Form C of the 


Central Sales Tax (Registration and Turnover) 
Rules, 1957], are reported to have been lost, 
destroyed or stolen from the custody of the dealer 
to whom they were issued and are invalid for the 
purposes of sub-section (4) of section 8 of the 
Central Sales Tax Act, 1956: — 


Sonf»l number of the declaration form. Name, address and registration certificate number of Whether loM. destroyed, stolen 

the dealer to whom the declaration form was issue d or dec leu d imalid or can- 
celled 


1 


2 


3 


1,1/0.596571 

(3.002 1 88 to M /3-002201 . . 

m/0-ir»l971 to 151975 


p'1.352112 to M/1-352115 
Lt 08/3214 


\[ 170.142 


. . Messrs. Gupta Cycle Stores, Tcliaganj, Mirzupur, MI. 


117. 


Lost. 


. . Messrs. Kanpur Bottling Co. Private Ltd. G. T. Road, 
Kanpur, KR-34. 

. . Messrs. Satya Prakash & SonH, Magina, Bajnor, BJ- 

1011 . 

* 

. . Messrs. Standard Eng. Co. Ghaziabad, GD-905 

Messrs. B. N. Modi & Co., 14/35-Civil Lines, Kanpur 
Kr-1484. 

Messrs. Lalta Prasad Kali Cliaran Kaehona, Hardo> . . 


Lost in trails t. 

Cancelled. 

Ditto. 

Lost in transit. 


Lost.. 


HI 027257 

M-4W04 
II 2-147349 
K 300380 

|lO-3S0007S and M/0-382142 

I 

1-341278 to M/1-341280 . 


. . Messrs. Mahabir Jute Mills Ltd. Sahjarwa, Gorakhpur, Lost in transit. 
GK-56 (Central). 

Messrs. Gita Press .Gorakhpur City , GK-7 (Central) Lost in transit. 

.. Messrs. Allied Stores, Nainital, NT-1 Hi .. .. D»tto. 

. . Messrs. Kedar Nath Shiv PD. General Ganj, Kanpur. Ditto. 

KR-248. 

.. Messrs. Ramji Mai Shiam lal. Commission Agent, Lost. 

Kirana Bazar, Pilibhit. PT-74. 

Mossrg. Universal Eng. Works, Ghaziabad . . Cancelled. 


T)Si:i7 


Messrs. Sri Visliwa Karma Panehall Eng. Co. Fatel Lost. 
Marg, Ghaziabad. 


[ 1-35/ i7(>2 

['3-119800 and M/3-119802 . . 


H7i»:I2 


f-lS92:tl to 189241 

u 


Messrs. National Abrasive Works, Ghaziabad . . Ditto. 

.. Messrs. Gupta Brothers (Cement dealer) Jhijbank, Ditto. 
Kanpur. 

. . Messrs. Sheo Narain Lal Kashi Nath Tanda, Eaizabad Ditto. 

Messrs. Hamson Steel Industries, Moradabad MD-I/ Ditto. 

2022. 

. . Messrs. BliUHhnn Armoury, Budaun BD-99 . . Cancelled. 


W-W and 500245 


7-* (< 4%03 


1 0 to M/0-004350 

^ "‘ia;.5toM/2-!l4J375 


|«r.s«2 

4 'S4. r il to M /0-478475 


Messrs. Kanhaya Lal Ratan Lal, Kirana dealers, Lost in transit. 
Budaun . BD- 9-Central. 

Messrs. Fancy Shoo Stores, Municipal Market, Allaha- Declared invalid, 
hud. 

Messrs. S. D. Chand &. Co., Kunjal Gir Bag, Mirzapur. Cancelled. 

MI -631 (Central). 

Messrs. Madan Studio, Nichibagh, Varanasi. YN-528 Lost. 

(Central). 

Messrs. Bindeshwari Prasad Cycle dealer, Roti Chovk Lost in ti ansi t. 
Gorakhpur City, GK-135 (Central). 


Lost from the custody of Asstt. 
Salt's Tax Officer, Rao Bareli. 


J. P. NAUT1YAL, 


for Commissi ones Sales Tax, Uttar Pradesh. 



10 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


[Part 


NOTIFICATIONS 
Indore, the 4th September 1961. 

No. ST/1CST/ 29(1)4/ 61. —Whereas it has been 
reported to me that the following declaration forms 
referred to in sub-section (4) of section 8 of the 
Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (74 of 1956) (hereinafter 
referred to as the said Act), have been surrendered 
by the dealers specified below of this State registered 


under the said Act, on account of the reason stated 
below, therefore, in exercise of the powers vested 
in me under sub-rule (10) of rule 8 of the Madhya 
Pradesh Sales Tax (Central) Rules, 1957, 1, K. c. 
Tiwari, Commissioner of Sales Tax, Madhya Pradesh 
hereby declare that the declaration forms bearing 
the numbers mentioned below, shall be deemed to be 
obsolete and invalid with effect from the date noted 
against them: 


Serial 

No. 


Sorial Nos. 
of tho decla- 
ration form 
declared as 
obsolete and 
invalid. 


Name, address and Registration 
Certificate No. of the dealer who 
surrendered tile forms. 


Name of tho Date with effect 
Sales Tax autho- from which the 
ritv who issued declaration 

the declaration forms are docla- 
formH t.» the rod obsolete 

dealor and (Into and invalid, 

of issue. 


1. 


2 

3 

4 

5 

1. 

F. 

014735 

Messrs. B. (k Choudhary and Sons, 

SaleH Tax Offi- 

1-4-61 



to 

Satna, R. (k No. tSTA-21 

cer, Satna, 



F. 

014750 

(Central). 

27-6-57 


2. 

F. 

050964 

Messrs. Nanik Pharmacy, Satna, 

Do. 6-11-58 

18-6-59 



to 

R. C. No. STA-263 (O). 




F 

650975 




3. 

F. 

012865 

Messrs. Sunderlal Oulahchiind, 

Do. 20 7-57 

1-11-59 



to 

Satna, R. (k No. ST A - 137 ((•). 




F. 

012875 




4. 

F. 

651756 

MeHsrr. Shn (.hi pal Rameshwar 

Do. 1 1-59 

19-10-60 



to 

Das, Satna, K. (k N<>. STA-216 (C). 



F 

653775 




6 . 

F. 

014522 

Messrs. Dipak Kumar, Surondra 

Do. 26-6-57 

19-10-61 



to 

Kumar, Satna, R. (k No. STA- 




F. 

014525 

37(C). 



6. 

F. 

045985 

Messrs. Chhotabhai Jaabhai,, 

Do. Khar- 

17th March 1961 



to 

Klmrguio, R. (k No. KCrN/112- 

gone, 18-7-57. 



F 

016000 




7. 

F. 

192513 

Mellila Vastu Bhandar, Parpnta, 

Salop Tax Offi- 

30-6-61 



to 

Sugar, R. (k No. SGR/S/146 

cer, Sagftr, 



F. 

192525 

(Central). 

22-7-1957. 



Reasons why tho 
declaration forms 
have been surren- 
dered and declared 
obsolete and invalid. 


ficato cancelled. 


Begistnition Cor- 
tihrato cancelled. 


Komar a. 


K. C. TIWARI, 

Commissioner of Sales Tax, 
Madhya Pradesh. 


Serial 

No. 

S. No. of the 
declaration 
form ‘(V lost, 
stolen or 
desti oyod. 

Name and address to the dealer to whom 
the declaration forms l C were issued by 
the Sales Tax authoiity of this State. 

R. C. No. of the 
dealer. 

Name of the authority 
who issued the declara- 
tion forms to the dealer 
and the date of issue. 

Rmimrkfl. 

1 

o 

3 

4 

f> 

6 

1 . 

K. 349076 
* and 

. 349077 

Messy. Balden Manilal, Chhota Sa r afa, 
Ujjuin. 

U.JN/483 (Central) 

Sales Tax Officer, Ujjuin, 
17-9 57. 

Lost. 

2. 

F. 181536 

F. 460419 
and 

F. 347637 

5 Messrs . Hukumcl and Bulmukuiul, Dowaa 
^ git'**, l jjain. 

j 

CJN /1 14 (Central) 

Do. 29 6-57, 2-5-58 

and 7 11-58 respec- 
tively. 

Lost. 

3. 

F. 349174 

F. 349175 

Messrs. Ftttochand Balabujc, Chhota- 
y Sarafa, Ujjain. 

U.TN /344 (Central) 

Do. 18-9 57 

Lost. 


L. K. C. HINGORANl 
for Commissioner of Sales Tax, 
Madhya Pradesh. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


11 


,tIA] 


S. No. of 
, the doclara- 
* tion form 

J ' >(V lost, sto- 
lon or des- 
troyed. 

Name and oddross of the dealer to whom 
the declaration forma ‘C* were issued by 
the Sales Tax authority of this State. 

Registration certifi- 
cate No. of the 
dealer. 

Name of the authority 
who issued the declara- 
tion forms to the dealer 
and the date of issue. 

Remarks. 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

f/O 355124 

Messrs. Taherali Saifuddin & Co. Fawara 
Chowk, Ujjain. 

TTJN- 141 Central . . 

Sales Tax Officer, Ujjain, 
17-2-59. 

Lost. 

F/O 187783 

Mossrs. Ooverdhan Medical Stores Nagda, 
(Circle Ujjain). 

UJN 366 Central . . 

Do. 27-7-57 

Lost . 

F'O 183189 

Messrs. Shailendra <ft Co., Agar Itoad, 
Ujjain. 

TTJN- 85 Central 

Do. 4-7-57 

Lost. 

f/0 205223 





F 0 458019 

and 1 

F/0 345600 J 

► Messrs. Thakurdas N. Lulla, Free Ganj 
Ujjain. 

UJN- 236 Central . . 

Do. 14-10-59, 1-3-58 
and 14-10-58. 

Lost. 

F|0 202696 

Messrs. Oriental Trading Agoncios, Madhav- 
nagar, Ujjain. 

UJN- 3 Central 

Do. 8-9-58 

Lost. 

F/0 209858 

| 




y 0 103290 

and 

F/0 902630 

^-Messrs. Gwalior Rayon Silk Mg. (Wvg.) 
Co., Ltd., Nagda. 

1 

UJN- 1 Central 

Do, 24-12 59, 7-7-00 
and 5- 1 1-60. 

Lost. 


L. K. C. HINGORANI, 

for Commissioner of Sales Tax, 
Madhya Pradesh. 


No. of decla- 
ration form 
lost, stolen 
or destroyed. 

Name and address of the dealer with his Registration 
Certificate No. to whom the declaration forma wore 
issued. 

Name of the Officer who issued the 
forms to the dealer and the date of 
issue. 

Remarks. 

2 

3 

4 

5 


F ]. 746254 Messrs. H. M. Joslii ,v Sons Naharpura, Rntlam K. C. Salon Tax Officer, Ratlam 21-11 60 Lost. 

No. KTM/105 (Central). 


L. K. C. HINGORANI, 

for Commissioner of Sales Tax, 
Madhya Pradesh. 


K. No. of the 
•Munition 
f>r m V* 

^ 0f, t , stolen 

orriiwtroyod 

Name and address of the dealer to whom 
the declaration forms ‘C’ wore issued by 
the Sales-Tax authority of this State. 

Registration certi- 
ficate No. of the 
dealer. 

Name of the authority 
who issued the declara- 
tion forms to the doctor 
and the date of issue. 

Remarks. * 

o 

3 

4 

5 

6 


Messrs. Harnam Singh Didur Singh, Madho 
Ganj, Lashkar. 

GWL-I/543 (Central) 

Sal os Tax Officer ffu alior, 
23-8-57. 

Lost. 


L. K. C. HINGORANI, 

for Commissioner of Sales Tax, 
Madhva Pradesh. 


12 


THK CAUTTTA UAZET'i I JANUARY 18, 1962 


No. ST / I-CST /29( 1)4/61-4.— Whereas it has been 
reported to me that the following declaration forms 
referred to in sub-section (4) of section 8 of the 
Central Sales Tax Act. 1956 (74 of 1956) (herein- 
after referred to as the said Act) have been 
surrendered bv the dealers specified below of this 
State registered under the said Act, on account of 
the reason stated below, therefore, in exercise of 


the powers vested in me under sub-rule (10) 
rule 8 of the Madhya Pradesh Sales Tax (Centi 
Rules, 1957, I, K. C. Tiwari, I.A.S., Commissio 
of Sales Tax, Madhya Pradesh, Indore, her, 
declare that the declaration forms bearing 
numbers mentioned below, shall be deemed to 
obsolete and invalid with effect from the date no 
against them: 


Burial S. Nob. of Name. address and Registration 
No. the doclara- Certificate No. of the dealer surrend* 
tion fomiB ermg Uu* declaration forms, 

declared hn 
obsolete and 
in valid. 


Xanii* of l bo SaloB Date with Reasons wh> the 

T*,x authority who effect from declaration forms 

issued the doclara- which the have boon Hiirrend- 
t utu forms to the declaration ered and declared 
dealer and date of forms are obsolete and 

iHsue. declared invalid, 

obsolete 
and invalid. 


■Reiiim kj- 


1. F/O. 048801 Messrs Nauhelal Nut hi jr am Rahu BTO, Sagar, 20- 1 1 - « r >7 
to (fonrjliamar TahHil Rohli R. 0. 

048825 No. S<JR'K/3(> (Fentral). 


10-11-58 K. O. Cancelled. 


2. F. 518280 Messrs. Shri Simliii Gramphoiio R. T. ( h, Rewu. 
to House, Fort. Rd. Ri'wa It. C. No. 17-2-58. 

F. 618300 RW 201 (Central). 


1-7 50 Do. 


3. F. 517751 Messrs. Shri Niw.ts Rarntilal l)abli* S. T <>., Rewa, 

to mini. Hewn 1>isH. It. (!. No 0-1 58. 

F, 517775 KW200 RVuiuil) 


23-1-01 The dealer has 
applied for can- 
cellation of Kerris, 
trat ion certificate 
and returned the 
book of declarn 
tion forms . 


4. F* 008370 Sur*'tidia Kumar Ruvndtn S. T. () ltewa,, 

to Kumar ( ihoulmr, Rcwa K. C. No 21-8-57. 

F. 008400 RW 54 (tVntinl) 


1-4 50 R. ( \ cancelled. 


5. F. 00852(5 Messrs. Praka-h Medical Hall ltewa. R T O Rewa, 

to It. C. Ne. RW 13 » (Cm rul). 2(5 8 57. 

F. no^.ViO 


K. C. TIWARI, 

Commissioner of Sales , 
Madhva Pradesh 


The declaration forms (Form *C’) as noted below ne reported to have been lost, stolen or desir*. 
from the custody of the dealer. to whom they were issued: 


Serial S. No. of (he Nan c and udcbvss ef tin- d*>nfci to when 
No. declaration the rleelarnt mr. form w us issued hv the 
form lost, sail ^ tii, \ mil horit \ of this State, 

stolen or 
destroyed. 


11 “Lustration Orti- Name of the Offa cr who 


ffcatc No. of the 
dealer. 


issued the fort i s <o the 
dealer and the date of 


1 . F. (ilR.OOf) Mesns Munj. 'I hiikm Prasad. Fort Rond, ];. W. 10 (Central) Rales Tax Officer, llowfl, hosl . 


2. F. 410530 M. Kusiran Kimum uroc^, Bros ; mer- ONA /202(C) AN 
< h<mt, Ashoknaear. 


Rales Tax Officer, (iuna, he- 4t - 
11-7-1900. 


L. K. C. HINGORANI, 

for Commissioner of Sales T J 
Madhya Pradesh. 



Pabt IA] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


13 


NOTIFICATION 

No. ST/I-CST/29(l)4/61-4.— Whereas it has 
been reported to me that the following declaration 
forms referred to in sub-section (4) of section 8 of 
the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (74 of 1956) (herein- 
after referred to as the said Act), have been surren- 
dered by the dealers specified below of this State 
registered under the said Act, on account of the 


reason stated below, therefore, in exercise of the 
powers vested in me under sub-rule (10) of rule 8 
of the Madhya Pradesh Sales Tax (Central) Rules, 
1957, I, K. C. Tiwari, I.A.S., Commissioner of Sales 
Tax, Madhya Pradesh, Indore, hereby declare that 
the declaration forms bearing the numbers men- 
tioned below, shall be deemed to be obsolete and 
invalid with effect from the date noted against them: 


Serial 

No. 

S. Nos. of 
the declara- 
tion forTllR 
declared as 
obsolete and 
invalid. 

Name, ml dress and Registration 

CVi t ifiente No. of flio deuler 
surrendered Torn s. 

Nan.e of the SaloH 
Tax authority v bo 
issued the declara- 
tion forms to the 
dealer and date of 
issue. 

Date v itli 
eflect from 
which the 
dee la rot ion 
for*! s are 
declared 
obsolete 
and 
invalid. 

Reasons why the 
declaration fern s 
have been surren- 
dered and declared 
obsolete invalid. 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

1 . 

F/o 351799 

and 

351800 

Messrs. Fidu Hussain Yusuf Ali, 
Dnulntgnnj, TJjjnin UJN-651, 
(Centra 1). 

Sales Tax Offieer, 
Ujjain, 30-12-58 

16-12-60 

R. C. Cancelled. 

o 

F/O 352076 
to 

F/O 353000 

Messis. SnnkarJuI Kanbaialul 
Daulalgani, Ujjain, (UJN-657 
(Central). 

Sales Tax Officer, 
Ujjain, 21-1-59. 

:;i-i2 60 

Registration Certi- 
ficate cancelled. 

:j. 

F. 1S98HS 
to 

189900 

Messrs. Ambalal Maboshehandm, 
Daulatganj Ujjain, U.JN-408 
(C). 

l>o. 9-8-59. 

4-1-61 

Ditto. 

4. 

F. 467986 
to 

468000 

Messrs. Rahulal Chhognnlal. Tarana 
U.IX-516 (C). 

Do. 18-9-58. 

16 1-61 

Ditto. 

/). 

F. 098053 

Messrs. Thahurdas N. Lulls 

Free-Ounj, Ujjain, UJN -236(C). 

Do. 22-4-60. 

17-1-61 

Due to cancellation 
of order. 

o. 

F. 928751 
and 

F. 928753 
to 

F. 928775 

Messrs. Miiv Shankar Biscuits, 
Faetorv, Budhwan Ujjain, 

IMN'625 (Ceiitrul). 

Do. 23 4-59. 

19 1-61 

K. C. cancelled. 

7. 

F/O 091887 

Messrs. N. K. Setliia, Xngda tTJN 
257 (Cent nil). 

Do. 17 2-61. 

2-2-6J 

WrongB issued 

twice. 

8 . 

F. J 87792 

M< ,-sis. ( Jn\ erdlum Medical St ores 
N.igde, C. J]\ -566 (Ccntial). 

Do. 22-7-57. 

IS 3-6| 

Due to cancel tal ion 
ol older. 

0 . 

F. 924792 
to 

924800 

Mes-rs. Bl'.ual Oil Hone Indus- 
tries, J >aulat ganj, Ujjain UJN 
601 (Central). 

Do. 15-5 58. 

31-:. 61 

It. C. i anei41( d. 

10 

F. 201398 
to 

F. 201400 

Messrs. Knluram Poonamehnnd, 
Barnagur, CJN - 93 (Central).. 

Do. 25-8-59. 

13-4-61 

Ditto. 

11 . 

F. 467903 
and 

F. 467910 

Messrs. Punjab Motor Oil Stores, 
Mnlgodoun Uoacl, Ujjain 

U.IN-217 (Central). 

Do. 15-9-58 and 
19-8-59 respec- 
tively. 

28-1-61 

Wrongly issued. 


F/O 201009 
and 
200988 





u\ 

F. 049739 

to 

F. 049750 

Sliri Nandlal Dularay, Prop: 

Sbri “Today Bros.” Sagar SGK- 
400 (Central). 

Sales Tax Officer, 

Sugar, 5-12-57. 

3 3-58 

Rusinoss closed and 
K. C. cancelled. 


ILLEGIBLE, 

for Commissioner of Sales Tax, 
Madhya Pradesh. 



14 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 18, 1962 


[Part 1a 


OFFICE OF THE COMMERCIAL TAX OFFICER, MADRAS 

NOTIFICATIONS 


In virtue of the poworo oonferrod on mo by aub-rulo (9) under rule 10 of the* Centrul SsIob Tax (Madras) Rules, 19,77 
T, Shri G. Kasi Raju, Commercial Tax Officer (Admit.), Madurai, hreoby declare that the declaration form of the followup 
d'Honption was lost in transit and ii is invalid for tho purpose of section 8(4) of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956. 


Description of tho *C’ Form 


Name and address of the dealer to "whom 
issued. 


Lost in transit 'while it was set to the 
other State. 


J. 774852 


Messrs. Madurai Mills Co., Ltd., Mnduria .. Messrs. The Central Trading Co., 137 Canning 

Street, Calcutta. * 


J/2. 996627 . . . . Sri M. A. Sooni alias Ramasamv, dealer in Tim- Shri T. V, Ohacko, Manarkkad, Kottayam P<ki. 

her and bamboos, Kalligudi, Timmangalam 
Taluk. 


J. 774496 


Messrs. Madurai Mills Co., Ltd., Madurai . . Meters. Khushaldas and Co., Bombay. 


ILLEGIBLE 
Assistant Secretary. 


Notifications under rule 10(9) of the Central 8ales Tax (Madras) Rules, 1957. 

It is heroby notified for the information of all concerned that the following 'C 5 declaration forms under the Central Sales Tax Act 
are reported to have boon lost in transit and they are no longer valid for the purpose of section 8(4) of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, 

C Norm No. Date sf issue. Issued by. 

J, 657951 to 27-6 58 V. K. M. Vaithilinga Chettiar, General Merchant, 

.T. 557975 Muthuramalinga Emporium, Tiruppapuliyur. 

ILLEGIBLE, 

Assistant. Semotary. (CT). 


It is hereby notified for tho information of all c oncerned that the following *C* declaration forms under the Central Sales Tax 
Act are ro|xirted to have boon loft in transit and that, it is nc longer valid for the purpose of section 8(4) of the Central Bales Tax 
Act, 1956. 

Form No. Date of iHsuo. Issued by. 

J. 3. 165871 .. .. .. .. 24-4-61 .. Messrs. The English Electric Co. ol India (P) Ltd, 

Madras- 27. 

To Messrs. Armstrong Smith Ltd., Bombay. 


ILLEGIBLE, 
Assistant Secretary (CT)* 


Tn pursuance of tho provisions of sub-rule (9) of rule 10 of the Central Sales Tax (Madras) Rules, 1957. it is hereby notified tor 
goner, i\ information that the following declaration form is leported to have l>oeu lost, destroyed or stolen from the custody of the 
dealer to whom tho declaration form wan issued and is invalid for the purpose of section (4) and section 8 of tho Central Bales Tax 
Act, 1956, and tho Central Sales Tax (Madras) Rules, 1957. 

(1) Serial No. of declaration form reported to be lost, stolen or destroyed— J/4. 944223. 

(2) Name and address of the registered dealers to whom issued and from whom hat, stolen or destroyed — Royal Trading Co., 
Dyes and Chemicals merchants, Slievaf»et/, Salem- 2. 

Tho declaration issued in the name of M/s. Tho A till Products Ltd., Atul, is said to have been lost in transit to Mesrss. Paid 
and Sons, 5 Godown Street, Madras. 


ILLEGIBLE, 
Assistant Secretary (CT), 


Whereas it has been brought to rav not.ieo that the *(" declaration form under the Central Sales Tax Act bearing serial No. 
280206 issued to Shri .Tavakumar and Co., Chamundi Hall, Ooty , ladders of R. C. No. 5088/ CBT— N on 27th April, 1961, bus hern 
lost in transit while transmission to Shri Foroke Tile Works, Feroko. Keialo State, on 1st Juno 1 01*1 . 

Now in pursuance of rule 10(9) of the Central Sales Tax (Madras) Rules, 1957, the Commercial Tax Officer, Coimbatore (X)* 
Coimbatore, boro by notifies for tho information of the public and the authorities concerned that the said 4 C* declaration form N». 
280206 is invalid for tho purpose of sub section (4) of section 8 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, and tho rules made thereunder. 


T. S. NATARAJAN, 

Commercial Tax Officer. 


illegible. 

Assistant 5 oe rot ary (C T) 



I’.UlT IAJ 


THE CALCUTTA UAZETIK, JANUARY 18, 1962 


15 


Notification under tub-rule 10 of rule 10 of the Central Sales Tax (Madras) Rules, 1967. 

Whereas it has boon brought to my notice by the doalor in column 4 tlmt tho following declaration in Forn *C During tho numboi 
a otitl in colunui 2 issued to tho dealer in column 3 under the Contra! Sulos Tax Act, 195ft, lum boon lost in transit, it is heiob\ 
, u> Mfutl for tho gonorol information of public und tho authorities ecmooinod that with efliot from tho data noted in column 0 against 
]t tin' form is declared as invalid for tho purpose of Hub-seotion 4 of section 8 of tho Central bales Tax Act, 195ft, und the Central 
Tax (Madras) Kulos, 1957, made thereunder. 


SI. No* Book No. and To whom issued. By whom lost or Jurisdiction ol the When lost. 

Form No. re- by whom issued with D.C.T.O. 

ported un lost. registration numl>or. 

J. J. 129555 .. Kaysoo Electricals, Sliri Bharat Electric J.C.T.O., Kowcarpet Di- 25-3-01. 

Delhi. Company, 7B, Gov- vision. 

induppu Naick Street, 

Madras. 

l!. J. 3024749 .. Apoo Agency, 29, Jal Madras Hing Trading J.C.T O., Sowoarpot II 15 7-01. 

Hoad, Bombay-9. Co., 20 G. N. »St., Division. 

Madras. 

3 J/L. 091700 .. Sri Mardia Metals Com- Sri A. K. Abdullah Boy J C.T.O., Esplanade Di- 1-10 00. 

pany, P. 30, India Ex- & Company, 319 Lin- vision, 

chango Place, 3rd ghi-Chctty St., Maoras. 

Floor, Calcutta- 1. 

M. SUBRAMANIAM, 

Commercial lax Officer (Adnm.) 

ILLEGIBLE, 

S uper ii i tone Ion t . 


MINISTRY OF LAW 
Deparment of Legal Affairs 
NOTIFICATION 

New Delhi, the 24th November 1961 

SO. 2791. In exercise of the powers conferred by 
28 of the Representation of the People Act, 
) > n (43 of 1950), the Central Government, after 
muilpng the Election Commission, hereby makes 
' fvil lowing amendment in the Registration of Elec- 
Rules, 1960, namely: — 

’ • rule 11, in clause (c), for the words “to which 
a symbol has been allotted” the words “for 
which a symbol has been exclusively reserved 
m the State” shall be substituted. 


[No. F.7(31)/61-Elec.] 
R. S. GAE, Jt. Secy. 


DELHI 


NOTIFICATION 

,i !1 P ,Irsu ancc of the provision of sub-rule (a) of 
v T r he Central Sales Tax (Delhi) Rules, 1957, 
>!! not f le " f° r general information that the 
’J’ rms of declarations are reported to have 
Caler-"^^ ace( ^ an< ^ lost from the custody of the 
named below, to whom they were issued 


and are invalid for the purpose of sub-section (4) ol 
section 8 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956. 

No. of lost 

Sorial declaration Name and address of flie Remarks. 
No. forms. douler to whom issued. 

12 3 4 

1. P 01797ft Messrs. Khannu & Co. 

fo Narain Bliavan, Chub 

P 018000. Rabat, Delhi. 

2. P 59076 . Messrs. Northern India 

Tiles ( -orporation, I>ellu 

V. R. BAPA1. 

Commissioner of Sales Ta.x. Delhi. 

NOTIFICATION UNDER RULE 10 OF THE 
CENTRAL SALES TAX (MADRAS) RULES, 
1957 . 

In pursuance of the piovisions contained in 
rule 10 of the Central Sales Tax (Madras) Rules, 
1957, it is notified tor general information that the 
following declaration forms issued to the dealer 
noted against, are reported to have been lost irom 
the custody of the dealer and that they are invalid 
for the purpose of sub-section 4(a) of section 8 of 
the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, and sub-rule (I) 
of rule 10 of the Central Sales Tax (Madras) Rules, 
1957. 

Name and a.dd>ess of 1 ho doalor 
Declaration forms mimlxirs to whom dt'clniul ion forms 
Lost. issued and from whom 

dnchi rat ion forms lost. 

J. 142402 to J. 142475 .. Slin K. Sella ppu ( loundoi . Nine 

Mu ruga n Stores, Doaloi m 
Cloth, lihavam, Coimhatoi o 
district. 

It. <\ No. I519-C 


CBTS/I Jhuvani. 

ILLEGIBLE, 

Superintendent. 



glistered No. C207 



Calrutta 





(jfertt? 


IAGHA fi ] THURSDAY, JANUARY 25, 1962 [ SAKA 1883 

~ — 

PART II— Advertisements, Notices 

ocsdure regarding sanding Manuscripts for publication of Advertisements, Notices, etc.. In the 

♦‘Calcutta Gazette” (Part II). 

1 . Manuscripts should he properly edited and complete In Itself. 

2 . Manuscripts should always he typewritten on one side of the paper. The name of signatory should he typewritten 
iow the signature. 

3 . Manuscripts intended for advertisement In the next issue of “Calcutta Gazette" shall be received hy Publication Sales 
Hce of New Secretariat Buildings, 1 Hastings Street, Calcutta, up to 3-30 p. m. on Friday and at Head Office at Alipore up to 
b. m. on Saturday. 

4. All costs shall be paid in advance and deposited along with the manuscripts. 

5. Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING (PUBLICATION 

RANCH), WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS, ALIPORE. 1 

The press shall not be held responsible tor delay In publication of any advertisement due to the non-oosorvanco of the 
itructions detailed above. 


UNION PUBLIC 8ER VICE COMMISSION 
Advertisement No. 3 

! UTL1CATIONS nro invited for undermentioned posts 
him Imliiiu citizens and poisons oi Indian origin migrated 
niii Pakistan with intention ot permanently settling in 
i ll, i oi subjects ot Nepal, Sikkim t»i former French / 
iiiTuj.Mioso possessions in India. Age limits relaxable for 
overnment servants except where otherwise specified. 
H>< r age limits relaxable by 5 years tor Kelied tiled Castes 
Jii Scheduled Tribes candidates. No relaxation for others, 
io* in exceptional circumstances, and will in no ease be 
lliM'd beyond three years. Qualifications relaxable at 
Dmmission's discretion in case of candidates otherwise 
til qualified. Particulars and application iorms obtain- 
W* b out Secretary, llnion Public Service Commission, 
()s: lfo\ No. 18(5, New Delhi. Reipiest for iorms must 
>!} mum* ol post and should be accompanied by seli- 
ll"ss« (l unstamped envelope for each post at least of 
l{ 11* XT indicating thereon name of posts for which 
n,K ;nc required. Closing date for receipt of appli- 
tioii with treasury receipi or crossed Indian Postal Order 
r 1C 7 .“id nl*. (1.87 nP. for Scheduled Castes and Sche- 
MTnhcs) the 10th February 19(32 (5th March 19(52 for 
'piu-ants from abroad). Separate application with 
[' 1:1)0 lee required for each post. Candidates abroad 
* “Ppl.v on plain paper if forms nro not available and 
Jiosn i(M> wit it local Indian Fmbassy. If required, can- 
f"“‘ s nuist ajipear for personal interview. 

l ^ esearch Officer (Assistant Statistician), Forest 

pwarch institute and Colleges, Dehra Dun. Post tern 
ili«? V’ I* 1 ^ eontinue. Post, reserved for Srhi 

[' ast(>s i if such suitable candidate available, otlier- 
t lp -»Jed as unreserved. Pay:— R*. 350- 25— 500— 30 - 
|t , — 3( h— 800 — E . II . — 3( ) — 81 10 — 35 — 900 . Higher 

L,‘ specially qunlificxl and e\j»erienced camli- 

|U ( y^ars and below. Qualifications: Etsen- 

1 2nd class Master’s or equivalent Honours 


degree in Statistics or Mathematics of recognised univer- 
sity. (n) About three years’ experience in design and 
analysis ot experiments, involving use of statistical 
techniques, and conducting sample surveys (copies of 
original research publications, if any, to be suhmittfxl) . 

2. One Lecturer In Anatomy, Medical College, Pondi- 
cherry, Ministry of Health. Post permanent. Pay: — 
Its. 530 30 — (>50 plus non-practising allowance of 25 per 
cent, ot pay subject to a minimum of Rs. 150 per month. 
Private practice ot any kind will not be allowed. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualiiied and experienced candi- 
date. Age: 15 years and below for all including Govern- 
ment servants. Qualifications: Essential— (i) a Medical 
qualification included in the First or Second Schedule or 
Part II of the Third Schedule to the Indian Medical 
Council Act, 195(3. (ii) Post-graduate /Research Degree or 
Diploma m Anatomy, (iii) Must be registered under the* 
Stale Medical Registration Act. 

3. Seven Assistant Surgeons, Grade I (six male doctors 
and one Lady doctor), Contributory Health Sftrvioe 
Scheme, Ministry of Health. Posts temporary but likely 
to continue and be retained on permanent basis. Posts 
reserved for Sclieduhxl Castes /Tribes candidates; it no 
such suitable candidates available, will be treated as 
unreserved. Pay: -Rs. 325— 25— 500— 30--459O-- E. II. — 30 
MOO plus non-practising allowance of 25 per cent, of pay, 
subject to a minimum ol Rs. 150 per month. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candi- 
dates. Age:- 30 years ami below. Qualifications: Essen- 
tial — (i) A Medical qualification included in the First or 
Second Schedule or Part II of Third Schedule to the 
Indian Medical Council Act, 195(3. I Persons possessing 
qualifications included in Part 11 of Third Schedule should 
also fulfil tin* conditions relating to registration specified 
in Section 13(3) of the Act. 1 (ii) About two years’ 
experii-nee as House Surgixin or in private practice. 


40 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 25, 1962 


[ Part j 


4 Two pilots for Kandla Port, Department of Trans- 
port, Ministry of Transport and Communications. j’okU 
teiimornrv hut likclv to continue ami l-o made permniu-m.. 
Pay:- -Its. HI X ! n; — 1 OOO— 00 — 3 Selected candidates 

will he paid ith. MM) during training period ol <i months. 
On successful completion ol training, they will be brought 
on t|,« above scale and can be considered for three advance 
increments. In addition, unilonn allnwanee ol Rs. 2o will 
1,0 allowed. (The scale oi pav is subject to revision in the 
I ol Ibiy Commission's lecummciidations). Higher 

initial pav I o specially qualified and experienced candidates. 
Age: Mirleial.K below 5u years. Qualifications: Essen- 
tial- ( Vrtilu ate ' til ( oiiipeteiK \ a> Master (Foieign going 
vessels) issued by the (Jovci niiienl ol India 01 an,\ a.ppioyed 
a ut hot 1 1 v . and experience as ( luel Olhecr on a ioieign 
going slop or as an Executive HiJicei m tl»e Navv. 

5 . Four Assistant Surgeons, Grade I, Mica Mines 
Labour Welfare Fund, Ministry of Health. Posts tern- 
poiaiv and likely to continue. Two posts reseivcd lor 
Scheduled ( Jasl os / Tribes candidate; il no sueli suitable 
eandidales available, all po.ds ti rated as umeserved. 

Pay: its. :vjr» 25 500 30— 5<)(l E.B. 30- N00 plus non- 

practising allowance 1 ol 25 per edit, ol pa\ subject to 
a minimum ol Its. loll pci mouth. Private practice oi any 
kind will not be allowed. Higher initial pay to specially 
qualified and experienced candidates. Age:— 35 years and 
below . Qualifications-. Essential d) A Medical qualih 
cation included in the bust or Second Schedule 01 Puri Jl 
ol Tint <1 Schedule to tlu> Indian Medical Council Act, 
|pr>0. | Persons possessing qualifications included in 

MaH II of Third Seltedule should also fulfil the conditions 
rein ling lo rcgi.sti at ion specified in N'etmn 13(3) oi the 
Act. | (ID About two veins’ experience as House Surgeon 
or in private 4 practice. 

C> Senior Marketing Officer, Training in Agricultural 
Marketing Scheme, Directorate of Marketing and Inspec- 
tion, Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Department of 
Agriculture). Most temporary, bill likely to continue 
indclimtcl.N . Most, icseived lor Scheduled Casles/Ti dies 
candidate, it such suitable candidate* available, otherwise 
1 1 oa ted as unreserved. Pay:— Its. 7(H) — 41) — 1 , 1 0( t— 

50/0 1,250. Higher initial pay to specially 

epia 1 1 fn*d and e*x|>ci mined candidate. Age:— Below *10 
years. Qualifications; Essential -0) A Degiee in Agricul- 
tural SfM'iiec ol Eeoiiomn s ell Cnmmoieo <>1 a recogliisesi 
univeisitv e»r equivalent. (ii) About, seve'n years 
e*\pei iciuV oi Agricultural Market mg work and cooperation 
ine luding at least thiee* \ ears’ true lung experience. 

7. One Senior Scientific Officer, Grade I (Mechanical 
Engineering), Research and Development Organisation, 
Ministry of Defence. Most temporarv but likely lo con 
limn* and lie* ictained on permanent basis Pay: Its. 700 

.50 i ,2-50. Higher initial pn.\ to specially epialilieel amt 
experienced e-amlielatc. Age: -Mrelemhly above* 35 years. 
Qualifications: Essential id At least second class Dcgicc 
in Mechanical Kiigineeimg oi a icnigmsed F niv ersity. 
(u) About 1 hi * i* ,\ ears* experience o| labrieating pilot 
jilants and equipments. 

s. One Dredger Commander, Kandla Port, Ministry of 
Transport and Communications. Most tempoiary and likely 
to continue am* be retained on permanent basis. Pay: 
|{s. MOO- 1(1—1,01)0 1,000 -1,0.51) 1,0.50 1,100 — 1 ,100- - 

1,150 -50 — 1 ,300. (Scab* ol pav is subject to revision in 
the light ol Muv Comiiiisooii’s recommendations). Ilighti 
nut i, if pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Ag6: 15 years and below lor all im hiding (Jovernnient 

sonant*. Qualifications; Essential (i) Certificate oi Com- 
potency as Mastei (Foreign going vessels) issued b\ tii«* 
(lovernnieiit ol India or any approved antboiily. (ii) About 
two yea i s’ experience as hirst Mate ol tmeign going 
vessel. 

0. One Chief Engineer, Dredger, Kandla Port, Ministry 
of Transport and Communications. Most i cm pm ary but 

likely to continue ami be i named on permanent basis 
Pay: Ms. 550 -10 — !)50 - 50/2 -- 1.050 plus ('barge 
allowance ot Bs. 100 poi monlli (Seale ol pav is subject 
to revision m the light ol May Commission’s leeoin- 
niendations). Higher initial pay to specially qualified ami 
experienced candidate Age: h-5 veins and below lor all 
including Hovernment sonants. Qualifications: Essential 
(i) First- ('lass Steam M.O.T. Cor tifieate, preferably with 
diesel endorsement, or ‘ombmed First (Mass. (ii) About 
three years’ experience as Second Engineer on a ioreign 
going ship. 


10. Three Assistant Researoh Officers, National pain 
Research Institute, Karnal. Posts temporary. One ot ^ 
posts reserved tor Scheduled Castes /Tribes .candidate, ^ 
such suitable candidate available; otherwise the j)Us , 
treated as unreserved. Pay: — Its. 350 — 25 — 500 — 

E.B. — 30 — 800 —E. B. — 30 — 830 — 35 — 000. Higher initial 
to specially qualified and experienced candidates. Age^ 
35 years and below. Qualifications: Essential— For one 
post (unreserved) — (i) Master’s Degree in Biochemistry 
Chemistry or Chemical Technology ot recognised uimi-i. 
sity. (ii) About two gears’ research experience* in d,ui\ U| 

allied products. For the second post (unreserved), 

(i) Master’s Degree in Agriculture or Degree in |) ; , m 
Seumeo Ol degree in Agriculture with posL-grnduale ,| 1() 
Ionia in Animal Husbamlry or Dairy Science, (ii) At le,m 
two years’ experience in a farm raising fodder and <;,,, 
crops, as well as management of dairy animals. For th( 
third post (reserved): (i) Degree in Dairying, oi Ih-u,,, 
in Silence with Indian Daily Diploma, (n) About, | W( 
\ oars' expei tenre of w oi k in dairy plants and qualm 
emit i ol ol milk products. 

tl. Two Planning Assistants, Central Regional a m 
Urban Planning Organisation, Ministry of Health. J>„ stl 
temporary, hut likely to continue indefinitely. Each p US | 
icserved Vustly tor a Scheduled Castes /Tribes eundidau 
and secondly lor a Scheduled Tribes/Castes candidate, i 
such Mutable candidate available, otherwise both j M ,s T 
ti eat(*d as nmoserved. Pay: — Its. 325 — 15- — 4 75- 1 1 . 
20 — 575. Higher initial pay to specially qualified am 
expei icm id candidates. AgS:— 30 years and below. Quail 
fications: Essential — (i) Master’s or equivalent hc.nom- 
<legie( in Economies, Commcice, Statistics or (ieograjihi 
ol recognised university, (ri) About two years’ expei ienn 
in a Mlanning Oilice. 

12. Statistical Officer, Statistical Bureau, Andaman and 
Nicobar islands, Ministry of Home Affairs. Post km 
poiaiv, but likely lo continue indefinitely. Pay: — Ms. ,\£ 
— I5l_l75_ E.B. —20 575 (plus Andaman special pay to, 
persons recruited from the main land at 33 1/3 per cent oi 
basic pay, subject to review). Higher initial pav t< 
s|w*eially quablied and experienced candidate. Age:— K 
years and below. Qualifications: Essential— (i) Masui 
oi equivalent Honours degree m Statistics or Mathematics 
Economies /Commcice with Statistics as a subject ot reuy 
ii is<‘d u u i \ ( * i s 1 1 y . (n) Some experience in the eollei lun 

.scrutiny and mtei pi elation ol Statistical data. 

13 One Pathologist, Safdarjang Hospital, New Delhi, 
Ministry of Health. Most permanent. Pay: — Us. 4(M» imi 
150 30 (>00 35 - (i70- E. B. -35 — 050 plus nou-pnirtiML 
allowanci* ol 25 jier cent, ol pay, subject to a minmimn 
Its. 150 per month Mriiate practice, including lalioraku 
and consultant practice, will not be allowed. Higher initial 
pav to speically qualified and experienced eamlul.iti 
Age:— 35 vears and below. Qualifications: Essential (i) \ 
Medical qualifieal ion included in the First of Second Sche 
dule or Mart II ol Third Schedule to the Indian M edu a! 
( 'mined Act. 1050. | Persons ])ossc*ssmg qualificam'ii 

included in Mart II ol Third Schedule to the Indian MnM 
Council Act should also fulfil the conditions relating t 
legist nil ion spc'eified in Section 13(3) of the A<‘,| 
(ii) Most -graduate Degree or Diploma in Pathology, ui i r 
Mi'dieine wi t h Pathology as a special subject, (in) Alton, 
five years’ pi ail leal experience in a Pathological labouM 
ui Mai hologieal department of a Medical College # 
1 lospital. 

11. (a) Two Research Assistants (Hindi) (Agriculture); 

(b) one Research Assistant (Hindi) (Zoology); ^ 

(c) one Research Assistant (Hindi) (Fine Arts), Central 

Hindi Directorate, Ministry of Education. Posts F' 11 
porary. but liki'ly to continue. Posts at (a) and th 
u'served lor Selicdul(*<l Castes /Tribes candidates, d ^ IL ‘' 
suit abb' candulal <*s available*, otherwise all the 
Ireafed as unreserved Pay: — Rs. 325- -—15 — (75- E.b 'I 

575. Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
experienced < andidates. Ago: — No age limit, but <;m"’ 
dales below 30 vears piererred, for all including (hw‘ ,rn * 
men! servants. Qualifications: Essential— (i) Degnf m 
Anm-ulture ol n'eognised university for posts at F‘5 
Master’s oi equiv.ilcmt Honours Degree in Zooleg' 1,1 
recognised univc*rsity for post at (b) ; Diploma in l’ :n j 
Arts ol recognised institution for post at (e). (ii) 
knowledge ol Hindi, evidence of which should be fmiu^ 
with the apjdieal ion. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 25, 1962 


41 


JMItT II] 


n Three Senior Inepectorg, Dock Safety, Organisation 
a Chief Adviser of Factories, Ministry of Labour and 
cirtoioywient. Posts temporary but likely to continue, 
pay: -Hs. 700-40 — 1,100 — 50/ 2 — 1,250. Higher initial pay 
Y specially qualified and experienced candidates. Age: — 
Between 30 and 40 years. Qualifications: Essential- - 
, Degree in Mechanical, Electrical or Marine Engineering 
'! ,, r K*ognised university, nr Certificate of Competency as 
.‘.t or Second Class Engineer (Steam and/or Motor 
issued by the Ministry of Transport and Communi- 
lt ! 0 ,m, or equivalent. (ii) About live years’ training or 
,< N j»eiieiice in an Engineering Workshop Or Government 
ijrp.ii I intuit dealing with the Factories Act, Indian Dock 
iJihtnn ci s Act Or as an Engineer Ollieer in a sea going 

s!n]> 

CORRIGENDUM 


One Reader in Forensic Medicine, Maulana Azad Medical 
College, New Delhi, Delhi Administration. In partial 
hkhIiIm’ii lion o| item No. 17 of Commission's advertisement 
\ (l |i) | in I ills lied on 9th December 1901, it is notified for 
if 'ii< 'i al intormation that scale of pav of tbe post lias been 
^,,,.,1 from IN. 500 20 - ,400 to IN. 570-20-4500 -25- 

1,711 E II. 05 — 950. Closing date extended to 5th Kebruarv 
]!H>2. 


SURVEY OF INDIA (CLASS II) EXAMINATION, 
MAY, 1962. 

'I'lie Fnioii Public Service Commission will bold a com- 
in'i ,tivi i examination at Calcutta, Delhi ami Madias com* 
In, ining <m 25th May 15X52, lor recruitment to Survey ol 
J ll( jiii, Class II Service. Age limits on 1st August 1961: — 
General: 20 25 years; For employees of the Survey of 
India Department: 20 — 24 years. Upper age limit relax- 
m ease ol Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, 
jpMilriits ol I he Stale of Pondicherry, residents of the 
l.\ni|;mi}in and Nicobar Islands and repatriates from Ceylon 
juho aie Indian citizens. Qualifications: - IF A. or B.Se. 
jdcgi «•*» with Matbcinatics as one of the subjects or Engi- 
Lrimg Degree or Diploma or it.*, equivalent. Full parti- 
culars and application lorms obtainable from the Secietarv, 
h 'n ion Public Service Commission, Dbolpur II »use, D.1I.Q. 
DM) New Delhi- M. by remit ling Pe. 1.00 by money order 
ti mi cash paymonf at the counter. Candidates must 
Icicarly state on money order coupons “SURVEY OF 
INDIA (CLASS II) EXAMINATION, MAY 1962“ and also 

f ive their names and full postal addresses in CAPITAL 
ETTERS. Postal order* <>i cheques oi currency notes will 
OT lx* accepted m Iumi nf moiiev oiders. Completed 
‘■»pln at ions must reach Seeretai.v. Filina Public Service 
"ii mi v.inii, b\ 12th Mandi 1902 (20th March 15)02 in case 
1 ( uididatcs residing abroad). 


I PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 

genera; instructions to candidates applying In response te 
advertisements issued by the Commission for reorult- 
ment to posts of “Selection". 

. (1 ) instructions regarding submission of application. - 

at inns are to bo made on the prescribed form which 

I 'll he available from the oflieo of tbe Public Service Oom- 
West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor). 
'Hxuv, (’alcutta-27, personally or on Honding a large self* 
Missed envelope with stamps sufficient to cover the 
wla K° affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 

^'f's of the prescribed form may apply on any similar 
n ,r ‘l (not. handwritten) form showing exactly tbe word 
l L ' wk| spacing of the sample form published in the 
Ulnitta Gazette” of the 1st September 1955, provided 
1 ’ ' a n U k are filled ud in the candidates’ own handwriting. 

im"! i ** ar ^ cu * ar * certificates required. — Candidates 

'MHil furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
l01 ! s ^perience together witli certificates written not 
H tfmri one year prior to the date of their applications, 
u ^pensihle persons, testifying to their private 


, ° ni mission accepts only the age of a candidate as 
h ,./i ,Tl the Matriculation or the Secondary School 
to Certiorate . In the ease of a female candi- 

W , T* i aK ? is not recorde<l in the Matriculation or 
Pinal Certificate. any of the following evidence of 
,s wcepted by the Commission:— 


1. A certificate from the Headmistress of the school 

which she last attended, showing her exact age as 
recorded in the school register. 

2. An affidavit, regarding her age sworn by her father 

or mother or some othor person in a position to 
know by having been present or heard of her birth 
at the "time of occurrence. 

A. A certificate regarding her age, from a Member of 
the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who must, 
have known the candidate and her family, indicat- 
ing dearly the evidence on the basis ol which he/ 
she satisfied himself /hersell on the point. 

(A) Fee. Candidates must enclose with tlieir applica- 
tions a fee of Us. 5 in the form of a receipted chstlun 
from a Government Treasury or the Deserve Hank of India 
under the head “XXXVI M iscehaneous — Receipts of the 
Public Service Commission, West Hengnl”. Money order*, 

< hcqucs, etc., in lieu of treasury ohallans are not accepted 
Postal order, however, may he accepted from candidates. 
They should he crossed and made payable to “The Secre- 
tary, Public Service Commission, West. Hengal”. No appli- 
cation will bo considered unless accompanied with the 
icquisito application lee. 

Candidates abroad may deposit their application fees 
with the High Commissioner of India or the Embassy, as 
the case may he, and obtain receipts for the same, which 
will have to be attached to their applications to be sub- 
mitted to the Commission. 

Candidates in Government servico should make ?uro 
bid ore depositing fee that their applications will be forward- 
ed by their superior officers. In no case will the foe paid 
with the application be refunded. 

The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced person from Pakistan. 

An indigent, displaced person shall, in the first instance, 
pay the application fee proscribed tor a gazetted post 
advertised by the Commission but if he 'she is selected for 
amt appears at. the interview, the lee paid by him/her will 
be refunded alterwards. 

Noto. “(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must turnip'll with bis application satisfactory evidence 
that lie is bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, e.g 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer oi a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original. 

(ii) A member ol the Scheduled Ca»ste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his appli- 
cation a certificate in original trom a gazetted officer or a 
Menihnr of Parliament or Ktato Legislature belonging to 
the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 

(m) A displaced person seeking remission or tho applica- 
tion tee must furnish besides the evidence required under 
Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that, he is not in a position to 
pay tho prescribed fee.” • 

(4) Address. — Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate) at once any subsequent 
change of address 

(5) Canvassing. — Any attempt on tho part ol candidates 
t o enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
lor appointment,. Spontaneous recommendation from 
|Hirsons interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will be disregarded. 

((>) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under nny Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., DamodAr Valley Corporation), in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or servico. 



■j ' ll iii cahoijija uAAivrriii, jainuaky iy oz 


imt u 


42 


Candidates serving under Government or a local or 
Statutory Body should submit an advance copy in the pres- 
cribed lorin. The application fee should in such cases bo 
attached to the advance copy and not to the original. The 
candidature of such applicant 4 may not however bo con- 
sidered it' the original applications do not reach the Com- 
mission’s office within a fortnight from the closing date. 
Unless applications in original or advance copies with 
application fees are received within the closing date, late 
applications may he rejected, 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Ahj tore, the 27t h January 11)0 1 . 


Advertisement No. 3 

APPLICATIONS are invited Irom Indian citizens for the 
following poi.ts;- 

(a) One Research Officer (Hydraulics) at the River 
Research Institute, West Bengrl, in the West Bengal 
General Service. Post tempoian. Pay: -Bs. 250 25 H5u 
(E.B. atter 12th stage) per month plus usual allowances. 
Higher initial pay may he granted on the basis oi age and 
qualifications in desemng ta.scs. The incumbent of tin* 
post, il posted in tlu* Smidarhans area smith ol the 
Danpici Hodge’s Line, will he entitled to spe< ml compen- 
satory allowance at 20 per cent ol tin* basic pay plus 
Tentage allowance at IN. 20 per month. 

Qualifications:- A Lust Class dopier in Civil 

engineering. Or, A Lust- ('lass M.So. or a Doctoiale 
degree m Applied Alathcnml m-, or in :i n \ branch ol 
Physic,-.. Age: Ordinarily not more than 27 \ e:\is oil the 
1st Febnmiy, 1902. 

(h) One Assistant Agronomist, Kalyani Foddor Farm 
In the West Bengal General Service. Post pmmamnt hut 
the appointment will he made on tempniaix basis. Pay:- 
|{s. 250-20- 050 2' - T 5* per month plus doainoss 

allow mice. 

Qualifications: Essential— (0 A degree in Agiicullure; 

(ii) KlU' \ €*:* i s’ pi.Mih.il expel ience o| Farming as th* 

Manapei ol a lar_!»' meeliani: ed Lirm umlei Indian eon 
< I it ion Desirable (O Expenencc oi Agricultural prnc- 
i ices m West Peiig.il ; (ii) I N>* 1 -gi adua I c degree oi 
diploma in Farm Management AgC: Between 25 ..ml 
35 yenis on tin* i 1 F< binary 1002. 

(c) One post in the West Bengal Statistical Service, 
Class II. I *oH tempoiary Persons Inning a lien or a 
conditional lien mi a permanent post in I he West, Bengal 
Statistical Seixirc, Class III, who are olmihle for appoint- 
ment, to 1 lie j iost b\ pimnotion are ineligible 1o apply. 

Pay: Its. 2'»0 20 OMI 35- 750 ( E.B. alter 10th ami 

I St h stages) j i« m month plus u uni allowances. 

Qualifications: <0 A lirst or se-ond clas-. M V m 

M.Se. deglee n| an Indian Universil \ or an equivalent 
(h’gree ol a lorcnm ITnveisitv in Stall. ties, .Mai hmn.it ir^. 
Physics, Kemioi.ic’s oi an allied subieet ; ( i * ) Expeie-nte 

ol statistical h* <*aivli m statistical surveys. AgC:- 
Betwcm 22 and do veais on the 1..I Fehruaiy 19(>2. 

(<h Two Instructors for Mining Engineering Depart- 
ment, Asansol Polytechnic, in the West Bengal General 
Service. Po-I- pe»man*nt Women unsuit ible Pay: - 
IN. 275 - 15 -’SO 100 pet men ib pin dearness allowance. 

Qualifications: —(i ) a dip'uinn in Mining Engmeermir 
with Mine Survey oiN Ceilificate ol ( ’ompeteney , 
(ii) Three y ears’ experience. Age: Between 22 and 35 
years on (In* I M Iv’i saiy 1002, relaxahle i.,i excej. 
tinnalK qualified candidates, ;md tor persons holding sub- 
st ant n e appointanent limit r t im criiiucut 

(c) (i) Two Graduate Teachers and (ii) Two under- 
graduate Teacncrs in Spoken English in Government 
Secondary High fchools for Girls. Posts lemprnarv. Men 
uiisuitnhle. Pay: Pm (i) R.s. 200- - JO— 120— 15-450 and 


lor (ii) Rs, 1 50— -4 — 230 — 5 — 250 per month plus usual 
allowances. Candidates who applied for the posts ]f 
response to the Commission’s advertisement No. 03(fj ,,j 
1001 need not apply again. Their previous application, 
will be considered. ,s 

Qualifications: For Graduate Teachers— Essentials 

0) A degree oi a recognised University; (ii) Flair * 1 ^ 
spoken English and capacity to develop amongst students 
coricct, speech habits in English. Desirable — (i) Diploj,,,, 
in Spoken English fiom a recognised institution 
(u) Teaching experience in English medium Schools. 

For Under-graduate Teachers— Essential : — (i) shouj.j 
have passed the Intermediate Examination or its orpin,,, 
lent irom a recognised University; (ii) Flair for spokr',1 
English and capacity to develop amongst students coinri 
speech habits in English. Desirable— Teaching exponent 
in English medium Schools. Age: For all posts:— X 0I 
mon than 35 years on the 1st .February 19(12, rclii xul»|.. 

I oi pel sons holding permanenr appointment under tin. 
Education Depnrtmenl , West Bengal. 


Age Concession 

Tlic upper age* limit, im* all the posts is relaxahle ] n 
(m years for Schedule Castes /Tribes and up to 45 yoai, 
Im displaced persons from Pakistan. 

A candidate vvim before the 15th August 1917 Wa , 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account 0 ] 
ins Aim activities in connection with tho country’s strung!,, 
toi independence, not being convicted of an otl»h<v 
indicating moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a eonm. 
"ion in respect of the upper age limit. Tho concession 
u anted will Ik* equal to the exact period of detention 
impi isonment, internment or externment suffered up to a 
maximum ol tour years. 

Anply to Secretary with a Treasury Chalan of Rs 
umlei head “XXXVI — Miscellaneous — Receipts ol Rubin 
Sm \ icc Commission, West Bengal”, or a Crossed Postal 
Uuler of Rs. 5 payable to “Keoietarv, Public Seivice (W 
"iission, West Bengal”. Overseas candidates may ilepomt 
tluor application ices with the High Commission ol | ndi.i 
< lf ‘ Mic I miian Embassy, as f lit* <*ase may be. Particular, 
and piescnhed application lorms obtainable from :h, 
ollicc ol the Commission, Anderson House (ground tlonn, 
'lipon*, ( ’abut I a 27, personally or on sending a s <!i- 
addre-sed mivelope (si va KFxO") with postage stamp o! 
3. nP ami the name ol th<* post superscribed on tin 
M i' 4 lope. Tlio-e who intend to take application torus 
m I / Hi submit the applications personally slimihl do y 
liilueen Kl-lo a, m and 3 pm on lull woiking days ,m,| 
bi iwemi ID-Io a m. and 12-3(1 p.m. on Satmdays. 

Closing date - The 15th February 1962. 


A. C. ROY, Secret ary, 
Public Service Commission, West. I U-rigal 
Alipoie. flu* 1 5th Januaiy 1902. 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGAN AS 

Insolvency Case No. 1 of 1962 

H A. Wi ll, ol 22/1 Mommpiir Road, -Debtor-Apphmnt 

I ) Bioiulla Kumai Biswas ot 29 Biswas Nursery bn 1 '' 
ami two oihm.s. Creditors. 

OX the* 121 h day of January 1902 it was ordered tlu« 
* I * ' * M| al(«T < »l the petition ol tlu* applicant he licat'i 1,11 
’he lMh day ol Fehniaty 1902 and that the said :ij»|» h ‘ :I ’ J| 
do attend lo he examined by this Court on that dalt 


M. (1. CHAUmiURI, Suh-.lmiL 1 

AhjM‘ 11 *, the 15th January 1902 ,, 

(67-1) 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 25, 1962 


43 


Pak' 1 ’ HI 



|N the COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, HOWRAH 


Insolvents Casa No. 6 of I9tt 


TAKE notice that the order of adjudication, dated the 
V lun0 i960, in the case adjudging Butto Knsto 
i nnidar, son ot late Amulyadhan Majumdar, of 1-3/4 
K Baocrjee Lane, P.O. Bally, PS Bally, dirtnct 
Un 1 an insolvent, has been annulled by an order, 


Uto/r'tUe 8th lleeeiuber 1901. 


ILLEGIBLE, District Judge. 

((Hi — 1) 


, N THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, HOWRAH 
Insolvtnoy Case No. 28 of 1981 

1\KE notice that an application bus been filed by A turn 
\an\:m Sinha, s/o Ban) Chhapit Sinlia, of 9A Jadu 
, (11 ‘iit Road, Calcutta, for adjudging Trevor Albert Henry 
ihils 'i 1 A. Henry, foreman, Gr. 5 Mains, C.K.S.O. Ltd., 
■•iicul In. an insolvent. The applieation has been admitted 
m l liv'd on 17th February 1902 for hearing. 

ILLEGIBLE, Disiriet Judge. 

(70— I > 


SUMMONS FOR DISPOSAL OF SUIT 

(Order V Rules 1 and 5 Cndo ot* Civil Procedure) 

IN THE COURT OF THE MUNSIF, 1ST COURT, 
DHANBAD 

Money Suit No. 229 of 1961 

Sice Bliagwan Kelanka — Plaintiff 
Versus 

K. K. Clialtorjoe and another — Defendants 
To- — Nityu Gopal Chatterjee, father’s name not known to 
the plaintiff, occupation trader, resident of Mira lluzar, 
P.O. Palassy, district Nadia, West Bengal. 

WHEREAS Sree Bliagwan Kelanka has instituted a suit 
against you for recovery of Rs. 700 due as priee of coal, 
you are hereby summoned to appear in this Court in person 
or by « pleader duly instructed, and able to answer all 
material questions relating to the suit, or who shall lm 
accompanied by some person able to answer all such 
questions, on the 14th day of March 10(32 at 10-30 o’clock 
in t lit* forenoon, to answer the claim and as the day lived 
I’m your appearance is appointed for the final disposal of 
tin* suit, vim must ho prepared to produce on that day all 
the witnesses upon whose evidence and all the documents 
upon which you intend to rely in support of >our defence. 

Take notice that, in default oi your appearance on the 
flay belore mentioned, the suit, will be heard and deter- 
mined in your absence'. 

Given under my hand and seal of tho Court, this day of 
I Nth .January 1902. 

DWAR1KA PRASAD S1NIIA, 
Munsif, 1st Court, Dhanbad. 

(75—1 ) 


N THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, HOWRAH 

Insolvency Case No. 34 of 1861 

\K K notice that an application lias been filed by Kashi 
r.Knl V« r ai wala, s/o Ishwar Das Kh.utan, of 9 dug 
|o|i:iu Mullick Tjane, Calcutta, loi ndiuJging Suslumla 
miii, ii Ihswas, Train E\aminf*r Gr II, Cnmitic sionei x loi 
], pmt of Calcutta, an nisoKent The application has 
hn admit It'd and lived on 17th Kehiuary 1902 loi 
f,n mg. 

TLLEG 1BLE, District Judge 

(77 1) 


NOTICE 

NOTICE i s hereby given to the parties who filed 
Mi'iu-nts in cases disposed ot by the Presidency Magis- 
hf nt Calcutta ii p to the year as shown below against 
f ' Hem, stating that such documents will be destroyed 
k ** i hev are a]>p1ied for and taken back within one 
mth trom the date of publication of this notice: 

Pioclamnt ion. Records up to 31st December 1930. 

1 'c-s I Records up to 31st. December 1940. 

f lass J| Records up to 31st December 1953. 

Cass HI Records up it) 31st December 1955. 

(lass JV Records up to 31st December 1958. 

( lass V Rceords up to 31st December 1959. 

petitions decided by tho learned C.P.M. and A.C.P.M. 
n P to 31st December 1959. 

S. P. CHOSE, 

Chief Presidency Magistrate, Calcutta. 


IN THE COURT OF THE 1ST MUNSIF AT CHAPRA 

Execution Case No. 46 of 1960 

(l> Ranisewak Prasad, s/o Padaiath Sail, deceased, 
(2) Ram Prasad Sah, s/o Munilnl Sah, alive, all by 
caste Madhesia Vaisya, b\ prolessimi cultivators and 
trader ol village Tehati, pergana Goa, police-station 
Marhowrnh, at present residing in Mahalla Manna 
Chapra town, pergana Maiijlu, pot ice-si at ion and post 
office Chapra, district Saran — Decree-holders 

versus 

(h Shri Vvika. Kumar Gupta, s/o Jotindra Nal.h Gupta 
alias Pat a I Babu, deceased, (2) Sreemati Manoliara 
|)e\i, \\ f o Jaiimlra Nath Gupta alias Patal Babu, 

deceased <3> Sreejnati Ka.ti Devi, w/o A jit Kumar 
Gupta, decease<l, (1) Sreemati (tuium' not known), 
minor daughter ol Shi i A jit. Kumar Gupta, deceased 
through Shri Abdul Hasan Khan, pleader G.A.L., 
appointed to the court, by caste Vuid.va Brahman, by 
piofession Trader, at. present resident, of 4/11 Ekdalia 
Road. Ballyganj, Calcutta-19, at present No. 87 Basil 
Bihari Avenue Road, Calcutta-19,- — Judgment-debtors. 

NOTICE 

WHEREAS ahovenamed Deereeh older s have filed this 
E> edition Case against the* ahovenamed Judgment- 
debtors, lor realization of Rs. 3,509.45 nP. towards decree 
money with cost .against the decree passed in M.S. 469 of 
195 n passed by the 1st Munsif, Chapra, on the 21th day 
of November 1959, by attachment, and sale of moveable 
properties of the Judgment-debtors as per description 
gi\en below\ 

Therefore ahovenoted Judgment-debtors are hereby 
ordered to appear personally or through thoir pleader on 
or belore 5th day of February 1962 failing which ex parte 
order will be passed. 

Description of the properties of the Judgmerlt-debtors 
which will be put to sale 

One box containing ornaments kept in the State Bank 
of Tndia, Chapra, bv Jilendra Nath Gupta alias 
Patal Babu. ancestor of the Judgment-debtor as 
per receipt No. 21/19, dated 10th December 1945, 
valued Rs. 1,500. 

ROY B. B. VARMA, 1st Munsif. 
Dated the 9th January 1962. 

.(68— iy 


44 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 25, 1962 


[Part d 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
IN INSOLVENCY 

Summary Case No. 24 of 1961 

Re: Sripati Nath Dutt,— ox parte the Debtor. 

NOTICE is hereby given that the abovenametl debtor 
having applied tor his discharge, the Court has fixed 
Tuesday, the 6th day of March 1962 at 12 o’clock noon 
at the Court House for hearing the application. 

Dated the loth day of January 1962. 

M. M. CHAKRABARTTI, 
Official Assignee of Calcutta. 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
IN INSOLVENCY 

NO. 16 Of 1957 

Re: Claranco Lionel D’Cruze 

NOTICE is hereby given that an Order of Court war, 
made on the 12th September 1961 directing that the 
aboveuamed insolvent be discharged subject to his eon- 
sen ting to a decree against him for Hr. 1150 in favour of 
the Official Assignee, payable by monthly instalments ol 
Its. 20 each. 

The said Order was completed on the 28th November 
1961. 


M. M. OI1AKRABARTT1, 
Official Assignee of Calcutta. 


6, Council House Street, Calcutta, 
J6th January 1962. 


COMPANY PETITION No. 222 of 19(31 

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 

Ordinary Original Civil Jurisdiction 

In the Matter of Companies Act, 1956 
And 

In the Matter of Shiva Jute Press Limited, Petitioner. 

Advertisement of petition and list of Creditors 

NOTICE is hereby given that a petition ior confirming the 
reduction ol capital of the above company from Ks. 1,50,000 
(Rupees four lakhs and fiit-y thousand) only to Rs. 2,70,(MK) 
(Rupees two lakhs and seventy thousand) only was on the 
8th day of December 1901 presented to the High Court at 
Calcutta, and by order, dated the 9th day of January 1962, 
the Company having no creditor entitled to oppose such 
reduction, the settlement of the list of creditors has been 
dispensed with. 

The bearing of the application has been fixed for 19th 
February 1962. 

Any person who claims to lie a creditor of the Company 
in respect of any debt, claim or liability must- on or before 
the 17th day of February 1962 send in his name and 
address and the particulars of his claim and the name and 
address of the Advocate (if any) to the undersigned at 
6 Old Post- Office Street, Calcutta, or in default thereof ho 
will be precluded from objecting to the proposed reduction 
of capital. 

Dated this 12fch of January 1962. 

G. C. CHUNDER & CO., 
Solicitors for the Company. 

(8&--1) 


CAUTION NOTICE 

ELECTRIC TRACTION is being introduced on t})(( 
following sections on Eastern Hailway: 

Scaldah - Ranaghat. 

Erection of iron masts for carrying traction wires 0n 
both sides ol the track will start from 1st February 

Public are specially warned not to lean or protrude, u nv 
portion of their body outside the compartments to ;n 01 ’,| 
getting hurt by these masts. 


erWTCRI ^ 

ssrfaw* fBfao* tTCBfri) 

ms* ems mm 

cm cw ^ m cwito*! 

vpjrp«n 5^1, 

^ bc?Nrt ^itcsri 0^ ^ 

tw 3 was crow §®fRn 1 v\ w vim 

^m\ tor, sr?i«n fa*noi m\n 

fff $U 5 *fTKR I v\, mva ©re ©Hm 

c4t$ wra fafa SreT ryihiro 

'zhvz ffTfac* fasTTC 5^ I I— 

TOicwrt’fw 

* I 

* I 

01 efwiffPf?: 

s 1 *r H tercn 
g 1 bntwetw 

0 l 

q 1 

\f I 

^0 1 

«nRT 

** I 
^ I 
*0 1 

^8 I *1*1*181 

I 

^q 1 

JW, CV, 1IT, 


I'lllT II] 


THE CALCUTTA OAZETTE, JANUARY 25, 1962 


45 


C«rt3tp tvtm I 


SliDHIlt Kl' M All SEN (JlTl’TA. H.U. inionds to bo 
enrolled a« iin Advocate of tlio Calcutta High Court. 

( 9 - — 4 ) 


’R^ITOW 0fRH greets CT, ’tlCSTsT 

^K«TT >UC*I4 *T^<H C^TI ^ ^414 

w3l ^n*ricic^ ^pph^ mww zwn 

fajflv 5^n *r ^nt&rs *®it ^tc^t 

^ sn^ *pt'*S 44 *RT CTOW $®rt3I ?IC«rTC*v© $^4 I TOKIf 

^l?n^ Swrai srarc, sfcrar zfim vsi4 

<iraR i C4H 4T4«r sn ff»r^n c*i ppr ^T4 4T4i> 

^<1 4 ^ 4lw<a , W5f 4W qi?4t< ' <m4 w wa ^T4 

ipfl^ $$£4 WK4 WPfTC Wf4 Sl4T trfWl 4T435 5^X4, ^41 

?tTtof %44ra Irotr sfe4 1 


UWT KUMAR MUKllOPADHYAY, UL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Ad\ orate ot the Calcutta lliy;h Court. 

(10 — 4) 


SIIH1 N K 1 P KN I )R A K.UM A R I)K, B.U, intends to he 
ini oiled as an Advocate, Calcutta lliy.li Court. 

(17—4) 


r«rfw 

S ^pPRn» 

t ^ ) ^MTvgl • 

i ^ ) *114,^18! 

( 0 ) 

(H) ^IfoiT^® 

(ft) W*?raifa 

i to ) IbGlI^tHT 

(q) 

\<\n 

CD sfewjfc 

10 ) Ft451R 

► i) 

>u 

n ) dii mw w&lwrei 

► b) 

) ^T dffi 
5 tC y W‘ s 1^ 

>U 

dn 

h'i) 

1°) f*9QH 

^« > nc4t'pn 

^ WWTJIffa 
Z) 


Slim SHIH SANKAR SARKAR, T.I.I5., intends to he 
enrolled as ail Advocate ot the Hiy,h Court ol Calcutta. 

( 18 — 1 ) 


SHRI TAPAN KUMAR SKN GUPTA, LL.H., intends to 
he enrolled as an Advocate m the lliy;h Court at- Calcutta. 


(10-4) 


AN AND MAN A RAJ, 1jL.II., intends to ho enrolhsl as an 
Advocate oi the Calcutta Ilij'h Court. 


( 20 — 4 ) 


SHRI IUIARKS CHANDRA SARKAR intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta lli^li Court. 

(21 — 4) 




SHRI JASODAKUMAR ROY, B.L., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate ol Calcutta lliy;h Court. 

( 22 — 4 ) 


Jispn m ri w^ i 


A. Q. M. ABU NASER, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
ns an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(29 — 4) 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 25, 1962 


4(» 


[Part jj 


BIUHUT1 1SIIUSAN RAY ('ll(KTl)HUltY, LL.B., intends 
to be enrol I imI as 1*11 Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(30-4) 


SANK Alt DAS GUPTA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court 

( 31 — 4 ) 


PRADHULLA KUMAR M AJUMDAR, LL.B.. intends to 
he enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta* High Court. 

(32-4) 


ANIL KUMAR GHOSH, LL.B., intends to ho enrolled 
as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(33 — 4) 


1, .1 AY ANT A MA.1UMDAR, LL.B., intend to enrol as 
an Advocate oi the High Court, Calcutta. 

(34-4) 


KKDAR NATH I) ATT A, R.Com., LL.B., intends to bo 
enrolled us an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 50 -- 4 ) 


GOVINU NABVYAN KAKRA, M A., LL.B., intends to 
bn enrolled as an Advocate* ol the Calcutta High Court. 

( 51 — 4 ) 


SAUUUNDBA MOHAN BASU, M.A., LL.B , intends to 
be eniollcd a 4 :hi Advocate ol the CaJenlta High Court. 

(52 — 4) 


DWI PEN DBA S V r l'H D E, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Adv< ‘ate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(53 — 4) 


K A HINDU A KUMAR NAG, LL.B., intends to \ 
admitted as an Advocate in the High Court at Calcutta 6 


SIIRI JIUKUL ariOSH, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(69-4) 


All INDR A KUMAR ADHYA, LL.B., intends to t )(i 
enrolled as a-n Advocate of the ('aleutta High Court. 

(6M) 


HIMADIH SANKAB MA r J UMDAR, M.A., LL.B 
intends to lie enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Coiut 

(69-4) 


PBATYUSH KUMAH MA.JUMDAB, B.Com., B h, 
iniemls to lie enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High ( Joint 

(70 — 4) 


SI1BI SYAMA KANTA GIIOS11AL, LL.1L, intends i» 
be enrolled as an Advocate ol the. Calcutta High Court. 

(7* n 


SANTIMOY BASU, B.COM., LL B., intends to he ciin.M 
as an Advncite of tin* Calcutta High Court 

(7 tc 1) 


CUBSET,IEE MANACKMEE RUSI ( >M.I EE, LL.B, in 
tends it> he eiirolhsl as an Advocate ol the Cal. High Conn 

(80 I, 


B I PUSH DAN PB \SAI> CHAl DHUBY, LL.IL, intends m 
he enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Comt 

( 81 - 1 ) 


SATYA NAB AY AN DANGA1CH, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


A UGAL KISHOBE .1 ETHAL1A, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 


(54—4) 


( 82 - — 1 1 


RAM.? RANJAX MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends 
to bo onrollod as an Advocate of the Calcutta Hinh Court. 


(5(5 — 4) 


LALTA PRASAD TIWAB1, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court 

(83— i* 


RAM LAL MUNDHRA, LL.B., intends to bo enroll 
as m. Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(56— 


DURGA SANKAR MULLIOK. LL.B., intends to b< 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta, High Court. 

(84-4* 


vSUttl GYAN CHAND KASKRA. LL.B., intends to 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


( 67 - 4 ) 


SWADH1N KUMAR GUPTA, LL.B., intends to 
enrolled as an advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(85-4) 


IMtf II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 25, 1962 


47 


n ,frlU‘d 


SIBAPRASANNA SINHA. ILL , intends to be 
as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 8 (> — 4 ) 


\lU)HEM>rSKKHAK CH A CDFICR!, LLJL. intends 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Courl. 
l> (87 — I • 


STATE BANK OF INDIA 

NOTICE 


(ii) the security to be created by un Agreement of 
Hypothecation of Book Debts and Assets to be 
executed by the Company in favour of the saul 
State Bank of India immediately after the execu- 
tion ol tin' Supplemental Trust Deed ret erred to 
hereunder or as such Agreement ol Hypothecation 
of Book Debts and Assets may he amended from 
time to time thereat ter shall take priority over 
the mortgage and charge and the floating charge 
created by clauses 3 and 4 lespectively oi the aaid 
Ti ust Deed. 

In effect certain alterations m clauses 8 and 4 oi the 
: aid Trust Deed relevant to the modifications above- 
mentioned. 


Calcutta, 13th January ItHili 
V11K following appoint motifs on the Bank's staff are 

} ir jcln notified: 

slin B. JB. Dalai, Start Assistant, held temporary 

charge of l .Liberia Branch from the 12th to tlic 
Ifith^December 19GI inclusive, vice Shri S. C. Sen. 

A. K. Bay, Staff Assistant, to be Agent, Burnpur 
Branch, as Irom the 24th December 1901, vice Shn 
K. N. M u staph i. 

8hn It. C. Ghosh to act is Superintendent, Foreign 

Exchange Department, Calcutta Local Head Oflice, 

as from the -5th Januury 19G2, vice Shri B. It. 
Gadre. 

Shn A. K. Kower, ch*rk. held temporary charge ol 

Kalna Sub-Pay Ollice (under Bui d wan Branch) from 
the loth July to the 2S(h Ocfohoi I DO 1 inelusi\e, 
vice Shri N. S. Banerjoe. 

By Ordei , 

B. K. KACKER. Seci chary and Treasmei 

(71—1 ) 


NOTICE 

THE ALEXANDRA JUTE MILLS LIMITED 

Debenture Trust Deed, dated the 14th Nm ember 1919, 
to seem e a series of 1 ,800 First Mortgage Board 
Debentures of Bs. 500 each ol the abovdiamod Com- 
pany as modified by Supplemental Debenture Trust 
J feeds, dated the 30 th June 1939, and 1 0th Novembei 
1954. 


*» To empower the Tiustecs ol the said Trust Peed In 
concur with (ho Company in executing a Supple- 
mental Trust Demi or Deeds for effectuating the 
modification^ abovement loned in terms of the draft 
to he submitted to the Meeting. 

Note: (i) This notice is issued pursuant to the provi- 
sions ot clause 20 ol the said Trust Deed, dated 
14th November 1919, and accordingly, the respee- 
h*e beaiers oi the Debentuies only will he recog- 
nized and treated as the legal holders thercol and 
entitled to vote m respect thereof. All Debentures 
in respect of which any person claims to vote 
must he piodueed at the Meeting. 

(in The drill t Supplemental Trust Deed reterred to in 
the not he is available lor inspection at the Regis- 
fcicd oflice ot the Company during normal working 
limns. 

D. P. DCNPERDALE, 

C. HOCKLEY, 

Trustees for the Debenture-holders. 
Dated tin* 1 2th January 19G2, 

McLeod House, 

3 Net a ii Subhas Road, Calcutta. 


EX PL A N AT( )B V STATEMENT 1 

I he Company at present has a Cash Credit facility with 
the Slate Bank of India under a diawing limit of its. 55 
lakhs against the security ol an hypothecation b,v way ol 
hi s| ohm go of stocks ol jute, himli, mesta and hemp. 


JVI’ICE is hereby given to the holders ot the 1,200 issued 
LLiituies ol 1 he above -an ies that a General Meeting ol 
lull holders will la* hcbl m nccoi dance w r ith the provisions 
nit. mud m the abovementioned Trust Deed, dated 14th 
" nmlu i 1919, at the Registered Oflice o| the Company, 
Mibcud House”, No. 3, Netaji Suhlias Road, Calcutta, on 
l'»nday, the 5Lh day of February 19(52, at 12 noon lor Hit* 
'"Po-e ol considering and. if thought fit, passing Extra- 
r d i nu i \ Resolutions as defined by (lie said Debent uie 
1 im Deed ussentmg to the following modiiical ions ot the 
'-lit , of tin* Debcnturc-holdei s against the Company and 
' s properly and of the said Ti ust Peed and 1 he said 
klientuics, namely: 

h By providing that 

1 1 > tbe Company shall be deemed to have power ami 
always to have had power to create charges over 
ds stocks of hemp, himli and mesta as from time 
to time existing ranking in priority to the 
mortgage and charge and to the floating charge 
‘■rented by clauses 3 and 1 respectively ol the said 
Hust Deed, dated 1 4th Novembei 1919, and by 
‘oniirmuig that aerordim/ly the State Bank ol 
India by virtue ol an Hypothecation Agreement, 
'hded^ the 21st February 1950, and executes! bv 
the Company in its lavour or as the said Agree- 
ment of Hypothecation may lrom time to time 
nereaJter he amended has and will continue to and 
¥% ' , H have a first eh"-"* over and in respect of, into? 
Mia, the Company *■ present and future stocks ol 
ficmp, bimli and mesta and 


A doubt, having arisen as to whether the Company is m 
a position to give the State Bank an Hypothecation by way 
“t fi»st charge over stocks ol himli, mesta and hemp having 
icgard to the fact that the Debenture f l rust Deed, dated 
the 14th November 1919, creates a floating charge over the 
v' hole ot t fie Company’s undertaking property and assets 
Dom which only manufactured jute goods and jute, both 
law and in process ot manufacture, stores and cadi an* 
excluded, the Bank has requested the Company to take 
steps to have the position chu died by amending the Deben- 
ture Tt ust Deed in such a way that himli, mesta and hemp 
will he excluded irom the ambit ol the elnuges created 
thereby. » 

Apart Irom the foregoing, the State Bank requires that 
the Company m addition to the existing security lor repay- 
ment of the balance from time to time at debit ot the 
Company's (ash Ciedit Account, should furnish the Bank 
with an hypothecation over the Company’s present and 
iuture book debts and assets. As the latter are included in 
the Debenture- holders’ securitv you are being icq nested lo 
agree also to the Debenture Trust Deed, dated the 14th 
November 1919, being suitably modified so that present 
and i ut me hook debts and assets he excluded from the 
security created by the abovementionod Trust Deed as 
modified by Hie abovementioned Supplemental Trust. Deeds. 

Xoiv* ot the Directors is interested in the business to he* 
transacted at the Meeting, hut the Managing Agents who 
hold 133 Debentures may be deemed to be so interested to 
the extent of their holding. 


(74 — 1) 



48 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 25, 1962 


l Part ;j 


NOTICE 

MESSRS. HANUMAN DAS MALL 
A REGISTERED FIRM AT PURULIA 

Dated Puiulia, the Oth No\ ember 19til . 

PLEASE Take notice that the abovoquoted Finn is home 
disolved on the Oth <la\ ot November 1 ( J01 and as such it 
do cease to exist. I tabu Hanurnan T)as Mall as sole pio- 
pnetor stiall beneeloith continue tlie business styled as 
Shn Haminian Das Mall Fum. This is to intorm all eon* 
reined Please also note that Balm Dwmka Ibis Mail 
i etires jroin this day lrom the Firm. 

11ANFMAN DAS MALL. 


8TOLEN 

TDK Government Promissory Note No. CA 027890 ot n 
8 per cent . loan ot 1070*78 lor Rs. 800 (Rupee', f ,^ 
bundled only) originally standing in the name of R t .„ ( * 
Hank of India and last endorsed to Sm. Bholabatt p (Jtlj " 
the proprietiess. by whom it was never endorsed to ull ! 
other prison, having been stolen, notice is heieliv 
that put merit ui the above note and the interest tin*? 
have been stopped at the public Debt Office. Reserve Jj^V 
o! India, Calcutta and the application is about to be n, il( * 
ioi the is-.iie ot duplicate m luvour of the proprietor 
1'lie puhlu lie i a ii honed against purchasing or otin-ius 
dealing with the above mentioned security. 

Signature' oi the Advertiser— -Bholabati Paul. 

Residence— II- \ Dehi En tally Road, Calcutta-14 


(73-1) 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, 1958 (1980) 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF INDIAN PLANTERS 
PRIVATE LTD. 

(IN LIQUIDATION) 

Creditors’ Voluntary Winding-up 

NOTICE CONVENING FINAL MEET INC 

Name oi Company. Indian IManleis Private Ltd. 

(In Liquidation) 

NOTICE is heroin eiven in pmsiismce ol section o()!J ot 
the ( ompaniex Act, IPfiG, that a Gonejal Meeting o| the 
members of the abovenamed Company will he held at I ISA 
Madan Molun Harman Sheet, Calcutta- 12, on the 27th 
day ol February I9(>2, at 2-80 pm. and a meeting ot the 
creditors will he held at the said I1N\ Madan Mohan 
Harman Stieet. Caleutta-12, on the same dale, i.e , the 
27th day ot Fcdiruary 1002, at 8-80 |> in. lor the purpose ot 
having an account laid hetore them showing the manlier in 
'' hit'll the windme-up In'* been conducted and the propel ty 
ot tlie Company disposeti ot and ot hearing any explanation 
that may be given by the Liquidator and the mannei in 
which the hooks, accounts and document of the Com pain 
and n| the Liquidator shall lie disposed of. 

Dated this the Nth day ot /human 1002. 

A. JIT KCMAR ROY, Liquidatoi 

N.B.: The account ol the winding-up to he laid heloic 
• lie meetings shall Ik* availahle loi inspection at the 
otliee ot the Liquidate! dining office bonis.. 


LOST 

THE (»o\ ei iimciit Promissory Notes Nos. CA1953o9 an, 
CA T.tViOD oi the 8 pei cent, loan ol 1916 for Rs. 1 ,000 par] 
ongina'K .-landing in the name of Sm. Parma Bala D asi 
the pin; rnd.iess, by whom they were never endc/isod \ 
an\ ot lit* i pel on, leaving been lost, notice is hereby gn t >i 
that pa n i m *n t ol tlie above notes and the interest then 
u mu hale lie* n Mopped at the Public Debt Office, Reserv 
Daub ol India, Calcutta, and that application is about t 
he made tm* < In- issue of duplicates in lavour ol tii 
pioje k tie* s r ! lie \ uhlic arc cautioned against pun liasjij 
oi otherwise dealing with the above-mentioned securitier, 

Signature oi tin* Advertiser- ^ HI -1T«TT Hi>l I I 

Resuleme C,'o Miri Ajit Kuiiiai Paul. Da-lhak Lain*, P tJ 
Clmi-iin disturb Hooghl.v (West Bengal). 

( 12 J 


LOST, STOLEN OR DESTROYED 
(AS THE CASE MAY BE) 

THE Government Promissory Note Sr CAO 21 7u" , 
Hie 8 per emit, loan ot 1890-97 foi Rs. o, 000 oi igma’ 
landing m Hu name ol Amiva Lata Datta, the piopnr-m- 
by wdjom it was nc\or endorsed to any othei pci*'' 
having been lost, notice is beiehy given that. pay mm . 
the above note and the miriest thereupon luiu 
•stopped at tin Public Debt (Mine, Reserve Bank oi hi". 
Calcutta and 1 hat ajijilieatum is about to he made in- M 
issue ot duplicate in lavom ol the proprieties ! l 
public are cautioned against purchasing oi otlim 
dealing with the abovementioned seeunly. 

AMIYA LATA D.VTM 

I Garpar Road, Calcutta-9. 

(IV- 


(89 -1) 


Registered No. C2/07 


No. 5 of 1962 



(Ealratta 





(SaEi'tt? 



16 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 1, 1962 


All-India wholesale 

Cost of living index —Base -. November, i960. price index*. 


P«nod. 



Expenditure level (in Re.) 

A 



Base, 

1952-53. 

Converted 

with 

November 
I960 m 

base. 


1—100 


101—200 


201- — 350 



All 

item*. 

Food. 

All 

item 

Food. 

" All 
items. 

Food'. 


(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

<4> 

(«) 

(«) 

(7) 

(8) 

(«) 

1957 J urinary 

9-1-4 

94 - 0 

97 0 

91 *9 

90 *2 

90 -3 

107 -3 

99-t 

A; r i 1 

A 

98 •() 

08 9 

95 -5 

07 0 

93-6 

106 -5 

98-3 

July 

.. 10f>'> 

105 *8 

I'M -1 

103 ‘0 

102-7 

100-7 

111-9 

103 .fi 

October 

107-6 

PJ7-0 

1 05 7 

104 0 

104 0 

102-3 

108 -9 

io* - s 


1958 January 

V 0 > 

10 1 v 

lu3 1 

98*1 

101 -8 

96 *4 

106 *0 

9a .« 

April 

106-0 

103 i 

I’M -4 

100 *2 

103 -2 

97 -9 

107 -4 

99-1 

Juiy 

109 -4 

J07 •« 

1 >7^ 

104 -9 

106-7 

102 -6 

114*7 

106 : 

Ov tober 

1 1 3 '3 

i 1 4 3 

ill 2 

113*3 

109»8 

108 -f> 

116-2 

107-6 


1969 January 

i ,v 3-5 

97 2 

1 02 -9 

95*5 

102 -7 

94 -6 

112 *3 

IJl-O 

April 

irr> 8 

ioi.-y 

105 J 

99 *4 

104 6 

98 *2 

111 *9 

103 6 

Juiy 

. no 4 

108 3 

lot* ‘2 

106*1 

108-1 

104 *0 

116-8 

10k 2 

Or tober 

114*6 

116 0 

1130 

113-4 

111 -6 

111 *0 

119*3 

UC-fi 


1960 January 

. . 

110-4 

108-3 

108 -6 

105-3 

107 *5 

103 -2 

118-8 

110 -0 

April 

, . 

110-5 

108*0 

P'8 -9 

106 -2 

107 *9 

103 -3 

120 -5 

III -rt 

July 

, . 

114*4 

113-9 

112-8 

111 -6 

111 -6 

109 -6 

124*7 

11.-7 

October 

. . 

114*4 

113 5 

113-2 

111-8 

112*2 

110 4 

126 3 

n: i 

November 

. . 

1 1 2 -fi 

110-2 

111 -4 

108 *4 

110 *7 

107 '2 

126 *0 

ho ' 

DtHwcuber 

« . 

112*1 

109-3 

110-9 

107 -4 

110 -1 

107 *1 

124 *8 

115-3 


1961 January 

1‘J'J 7 

105-0 

108-7 

103 *2 

108 -4 

102 3 

126*6 

118’.' 

February 

110 6 

100*1 

109-6 

104 *3 

109*0 

103 -3 

126-7 

1 IT* 3 

March 

no •» 

106 *1 

109 -9 

104 -6 

109 *6 

108 -9 

127-6 

118*1 

April 

112-2 

108*2 

111-4 

107-2 

111-0 

106-6 

125-8 

110S 

May 

112*1 

107-8 

111*4 

107*0 

111-0 

100-6 

125*3 

118^ 

June 

113*7 

110*1 

312-7 

109-1 

112-1 

108-4 

125-9 

116-6 

July 

116*2 

114*1 

1151 

113-2 

114-2 

112-2 

128-7 

IKK 

August 

117-9 

116-8 

116*6 

116*7 

115-5 

114-6 

127-4 

1181 

September 

1 IS- 0 

116-4 

116-6 

116*1 

115-4 

113-8 

124-6 

115*1 

October 

119*9 

119*7 

116*2 

118-2 

116-9 

110-7 

124*4 

115* 

November 

120 - 1 

120-4 

1 1 S 4 

118*4 

116-9 

110-6 

124 *2 

1151 


Week ending* 

30-12-01 

115-1 

111*2 

113*5 

109*3 

112-6 

108-1 


6-1*02 

115-3 

111*6 

113-7 

109-6 

112-8 

108-3 

. . 

18-1.52 

114-6 

110-5 

113-0 

108-4 

112-3 

107-3 


20-1 02 

114-3 

110-2 

112-8 

108-2 

112-1 

107-1 


27-1-62 

113-8 

109-2 

112-3 

107-3 

111-7 

100-3 

. . 


Revised series (B nws 1952-63) t»nd the corresponding converted series. 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 1,1962 


17 


CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 

Notice under section 43 of the Calcutta Improve- 
meat Act, 1911 (Bengal Act V of 1911), as 
modified up to 1st June 1936 

1. It is hereby notified under section 43 of the 
Lalcutta Improvement Act, that a General Improve- 
ment Scheme has been framed by the Board of 
nil* tees for the Improvement of Calcutta for the 
1U ipose of provision of building sites particularly 

the reinstatement of owner-occupiers of houses 
Squired by the Trust and for construction of tene- 
ments with ancillaries for the rehousing of persons 
j welling in bustees, who may be displaced from 
,udi bustees by this or other Improvement Schemes 
,* the Trust to be hereafter known as Scheme 
vs LXXXIII, on Hossain Shah Road and Deby 
houdhury lload at Kidderpore within the Ward No. 
q of the Corporation of Calcutta. 

2. The area comprised in the scheme is shown 
a i thin red verge on the plan. The land (shown 
Aithi:: blue verge on plan) measuring 6.66 acres more 

less (excluding a musjid) in Ward No. 73 of the 
. ,rpr, ration of Calcutta and more particularly 
Inscribed below is proposed to be acquired under 
,:ction 35C( 1) clause (a) of the Calcutta Improve- 
;uat Act 

The boundary of the area comprised in the said 
..heme as well as the land proposed to be acquired 

. ^ ;v. follows: - 

On the North: Starting from the north-western 
corner of Premises No. 45, Hossain Shah Road 
ui-mmg eastwards along the southern edge of 
Hossain Shah Road to the north-western corner 
ot N:n 9C, Hossain Shah Road, then running 
souui wards along the western boundaries of 
Nws. 9C and 9B, Hossain Shah Road (musjid) 
and 7, Hossain Shah Road and then eastwards 
along the southern boundary of No. 7, Hossain 
Shall Road to the south-eastern corner of No. 7, 
n.A->a:n Shah Road, then running southwards 
along the western edge o! the C. C. drain run- 
M v., by the west of No. 5, Hossain Shah Road 
tor a distance of 18 ft., then eastwards across 
the said drain and along the southern boundaries 
or N '*.5 and 3, Hossain Shah Road to the south- 
; eastern corner of No. 3, Hossain Shah Road. 

0^ the East: From this point running south- 
wards along the western boundary of the 
Calcutta Corporation Children’s playground at 
hie junction ol Hossain Shah Road and Deby 
ChouJhury Road and the western boundaries of 
N is. 12 A. 12B and 14B Debv Choudhurv Road 
to the south-western corner of No. 14B, Deby 
Chnadhury Road, then eastwards along the 
*ou ‘-hern boundary of No. 14B, Debv Choudhurv 
Road for a distance of 13ft. to the western end 
°t the common passage running bv the south of 
14 a and 14B, Deby Choudhurv Road, then 
r unnino southwards along the western end of 
the said common passage and the western boun- 
dn - rv of No. 16B, Deby Choudhurv Road to the 


south-western corner of No. 16B, Deby 
Choudhurv Road, then running eastwards along 
the southern boundaries of Nos. 16B and 16A, 
Deby Choudhury Road to the south-eastern 
corner of No. 16A, Deby Choudhury Road, then 
running southwards along the western edge of 
Deby Choudhury Road for a distance of 106 ft. 
to a point on the eastern boundary of No. 20, 
Deby Choudhury Road, then running westwards 
across Nos. 20, Deby Choudhury Road and along 
the northern boundary of No. 22, Deby 
Choudhurv Road, for a distance of 120 ft. to a 
point on the northern boundary of No. 22, Deby 
Choudhury Road, then running southwards 
across No. 22, Deby Choudhury Road to a point 
on the southern boundary of 22, Deby 
Choudhury Road, situated at a distance of 
103 ft. from its south-western corner. 

On the South: From this point running west- 
wards. then southwards, again westwards, then 
northwards and again westwards along the 
northern boundary wall of Remount Road staff 
ooi on v of Commissioners for the Port of 
Calcutta to the south-western corner of No. 2A, 
Ismau Ostagar Lane. 

On the W cst: From this point running north- 
wards along the eastern edge of Ismail Ostagar 
Lane to the starting point. 

Particulars of the Scheme, a plan showing the 
scheme area and a statement of lands proposed for 
acquisition may be inspected at the office of the 
Trust at No. 10, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, 
between the hours 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. on week days 
and between Fours 11 a.m. and 12-30 p.m. on Satur- 
days. 

3. Cop.es will be available on payment of the 
followin'' lee>: — 

PaiucaCu? and other information of the scheme 
Re. 0.25 nP. 

Plan 'T Lite scheme Re. 1.00 rP. 

Staten jit of lands proposed for acquisition — 
JC. 0.25 nP. 


4. Object ns to the scheme will be received up 
to 1 Oth April 1962. 


5. I'n.ln section 6 A of the Land Acquisition* Act, 
as intro ’.iced bv the Schedule to the Calcutta 
Improvement Act, 1911, as amended by the West 
Bengal Ac: XXXII of 1955, the publication of this 
notice shed! have the same effect as the publication 
of notifkuin under section 4 of Land Acquisition 
Act. 

K. SEN, 
Chairman. 

Calcutta, dn 2nd January 1962. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Governii..uu Printing, West Bengal 
at the West Bengal Government Pres.*, Alipore. 



Registered No. C207 


No. 4 of 1962 


GJalrutta 







MAGHA 5 ] 

THURSDAY, JANUARY 25, 1962 


[ 8 AKA 1883 


CONTENTS: 

Page. 

11—12 



State Statistical Bureau — Cost of living indexes, 
Calcutta, and wholesale price index 

for the week ending the 20th January 
1962 



Caloutte Improvement Trust — Notices 

13—14 



SUPPLEMENT — Official Papers 


Issue No. 292 


8TATE STATISTICAL BUREAU, WEST BENGAL 

TABLE I 

Cost of living indexes, Calcutta and wholesale price index (week ending 20th January 1902} 

Cost of living index — Base : November, 1960. 


All-India wholesale 
price index*. 
— < 


Period. 




Expenditure level (in Rs.) 

-A- 



Base, 

Converted 



f' i J r 





• ■ ■ » 

1952-63. 

with 



1—100 


101—200 

ft —i 

201— 

a 

-860 


Novemocr 



' All 

Food. 

1 All 

Food. 

All 

Food. 


I960 as 
base. 



items. 


items. 


items. 




d) 


(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(3) 

(6) 

0 ) 

(8) 

<»> 

1854 January 


93*9 

88*8 

94*1 

88*4 

94*7 

88*8 

# m 


April 


96*2 

90*4 

96*6 

90*1 

96*3 

90*1 

# , 


July 

— 

94*0 

89*4 

94*4 

89*6 

94*7 

89*6 


• - • 

October 

- 

96*3 

91*6 

96*3 

91*4 

96*6 

91*3 

- 


1955 Janaary 


90*7 

84*7 

91*1 

84*4 

91*7 

84*6 



April 


86*9 

83*0 

90*6 

83*7 

91*2 

84*0 

88*9 

82*9 

July 


91*1 

86*0 

91*6 

86*8 

92*0 

86*8 

92*9 

86*9 

October 

- 

93*7 

89*T 

93*9 

89*4 

94*0 

88*0 

90*6 

83*9 

i960 January 

w-e 

90*9 

94*s 

91*0 

84*0 

91*2 

83*7 

96*8 

88*2 

April 


95*2 

91*6 

94*8 

90*4 

94*6 

89*6 

100*0 

92*6 

July 


99*6 

98*0 

98*7 

96*3 

97*8 

94*7 

108*5 

96*8 

October 

•• 

102*4 

101*3 

100*7 

98*9 

99*4 

96*9 

106*7 

98*8 


"Revised series (Base : 1962*68) end the corresponding converted series. 


12 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 25, 1962 


All-India wholesale 

Coat of living index — Base : November, i960. prioe Index*. 


Period. 

* 


__ 

Expenditure level (in Rs.) 

JL. 



r- 

1952^53. 

Converted 

Mail. 


1 — 100 
A 


101 — 200 
A 


i 

r 

© 


Willi 

November 
1950 to 
base. 


All 

items. 

Food. 

All 

item*. 

Food. 

‘ All 
items. 

Food. 


(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(*) 

<•) 

(7) 

(8) 

(») 

1967 January 

98-4 

94*6 

67 0 

91 >9 

96 *2 

90*3 

107 *3 

99 4 

April 

100*6 

98 -0 

98 •« 

95-6 

97 0 

93*6 

106 *6 

98*6 

July 

106*0 

106*8 

104 1 

108 -0 

102*7 

100*7 

111*9 

103.(j 

October 

107*6 

107*0 

105 7 

104*0 

104*0 

102*3 

108 *9 

In* 8 


1958 January 

105 -0 

101 -8 

103*1 

98 *1 

101 *8 

95 -4 

106*0 

P8 *2 

April 

106*0 

103*1 

104 *4 

100 *2 

103 *2 

9**9 

107 *4 

99 0 

July 

109*4 

107 -6 

107 *9 

104 -9 

106*7 

102 *6 

114*7 

106 

October 

113-3 

114 -3 

ill -2 

113*3 

109*3 

108 *5 

116*2 

107*6 


1959 January 

• . 

103*5 

97 *2 

102 *9 

95*5 

102 7 

94-6 

112*3 

104 •() 

April 

. . 

106*8 

100-9 

105*1 

99 -4 

104 6 

98 *2 

111 *9 

103 6 

July 

. • 

110 *4 

108*3 

109 *2 

100 *1 

108 *1 

104 *0 

116* 

10b L 

October 

. . 

114*6 

116*0 

113*0 

113*4 

111*6 

111*0 

119*3 

110 6 


I960 January 

110 -4 

iOS -3 

108 *6 

106-3 

107 *6 

103 -2 

118*8 

lit) *0 

April 

110-6 

108 *0 

108 -9 

106 *2 

107*9 

103 *3 

120*5 

111-6 

July 

114-4 

113*9 

112 -8 

111 -6 

111 -6 

109 *6 

124 *7 

115 *6 

October 

114 4 

113*5 

113-2 

111 *8 

112*2 

1 It) *4 

126 *3 

117 0 

November 

112 6 

no *2 

111 *4 

108*4 

110 *7 

107-2 

126 *0 

lib *7 

December 

112*1 

109 *3 

no o 

107 *4 

110 -1 

107*1 

124*8 

113-6 


1961 January 

109*7 

105 -0 

108*7 

103 *2 

108 *4 

102 *3 

125-6 

no-s 

February 

110*6 

106*1 

109*5 

104 *3 

109 -0 

103 *3 

126*7 

117-3 

March 

110*9 

106*1 

109 *9 

104 *6 

109 *6 

103 9 

127*5 

118-1 

April 

112*2 

108*2 

111*4 

107*2 

111*0 

106*6 

126*8 

110-3 

May 

1121 

107*8 

111*4 

107*0 

111*0 

106*6 

125-3 

110 " 

June 

113*7 

110*1 

112*7 

109*1 

112*1 

108*4 

125*9 

11*0 

July 

116*2 

114-1 

115*1 

113*2 

114*2 

112*2 

128*7 

119-3 

August 

117*9 

116*8 

116*6 

116*7 

116*5 

114*5 

127*4 

118-0 

September 

118-0 

116*4 

116*6 

115*1 

115*4 

113*8 

124*6 

1134 

October 

119-9 

119*7 

118-2 

118*2 

116*9 

110*7 

124*4 

115-3 

November 

120*3 

120*4 

118*4 

118*4 

116*9 

116*6 

124 *2 

115-0 

Week ending. 

23.12-61 

116*6 

113*8 

114*8 

111*7 

113-7 

110*3 



30-12-61 

115*1 

111*2 

113*5 

109*3 

112-6 

108*1 



6-1*62 

115*3 

111*6 

113*7 

109*6 

112-8 

108*3 



13-1-62 

114*6 

110*6 

113*0 

108*4 

112-3 

107*3 



20-1-62 

U4*3 

110*2 

112*8 

108*2 

112-1 

107*1 




•Revised 

series (Bose : 

1952-53) and 

the oorrespondinK converted 

series. 




SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 25, 1962 


13 


CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 
NOTICE 

It is hereby notified under section 43 of the 
Calcutta Improvement Act, 1911, that a Housing 
Accommodation Scheme has been framed by the 
Board of Trustees for the Improvement of Calcutta 
under section 39A of the Calcutta Improvement Act, 
1911, for the construction of flats for the Middle 
Income Group people on two blocks of land lying 
on the opposite sides of Gobinda Addy Road in 
Chetla. 

(2) The area comprised in the Scheme is shown 
within red verge on the plan. The land (shown 
within blue verge on plan) measuring 1.3 acres, more 
pr less, in Ward No. 72 of the Corporation of Cal- 
cutta and more particularly described below is pro- 
posed to be acquired under section 35C(i) clause (a) 
jt the Calcutta Improvement Act. 

The boundaries of two blocks of the area compris- 
Lj in the said scheme as well as the said land pro- 
posed to be acquired, are as follows: — 

(a) North Block: 

On the North- -Premises Nos. 18 and 18/1 
Chetla Road. 

On the East — Premises Nos. 17/1 Chetla Road 
and 39B Gobinda Addy Road. 

On the South — Gobinda Addy Road. 

On the West Premises Nos. 27C, 27A, 26/ IB, 
26/1 A and 26 Sabjibagan Lane. 

(b) South Block: 

On the North — Gobinda Addy Road. 

On the East — Premises Nos. 15/2A, and 15C 
Chetla Road, 30E and 30D Sabjibagan Lane. 

On the South — Premises Nos. 30C and 30B 
Sabjibagan Lane, Sabjibagan Lane. 

On the West — Premises Nos. 29, 28A and 28B, 
Sabjibagan Lane, Sabjibagan Lane. 

0) Further particulars of the scheme, a plan show- 
ing the scheme area and a statement of the land 
proposed for acquisition may be inspected at the 
mice of the Trust at 10 Netaji Subhas Road, 
Calcutta, between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. on weekdays 
[nd 11 a.m. and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 

Copies will be available on payment of the follow- 

ill* fees : — 

Particulars and other information of the scheme — 
Re. 0.25. 

Plan of the scheme area -Re. 1.00. 

Statement of land proposed for acquisition — 
Re. 0.25. 

(4| Objections to the scheme will be received up to 
Mi March 1962. 

(5) Under section 6A of the Land Acquisition Act, 
l Produced by the Schedule to the Calcutta 
^P r ovement Act, 1911, as amended by the West 

nj;al Act XXXTI of 1955 the publication of this 
p ice shall have the same effect as the publication of 
P meat ion under section 4 of the Land Acquisition 


Calcutta, 

M the 21st December 


K. SEN, Chairman. 
1961. 


Notice under section 43 of the Calcutta Improve- 
ment Act, 1911 (Bengal Act V of 1911), as 
modified up to 1st June 1956 

1. It is hereby notified under section 43 of the 
Calcutta Improvement Act, that a General Improve- 
ment Scheme has been framed by the Board of 
Trustees for the Improvement of Calcutta for the 
purpose of provision of building sites particularly 
for the reinstatement of owncr-occupiers of houses 
acquired by the Trust and for construction of tene- 
ments with ancillaries for the rehousing of persons 
dwelling in bustees, who may be displaced from, 
such bustees by this or other Improvement Schemes 
of the Trust to be hereafter known as Scheme 
No. LXXXIII, on Hossain Shah Road and Deby 
Choudhury Road at Kidderpore within the Ward No. 
73 of the Corporation of Calcutta. 

2. The area comprised in the scheme is shown 
within red verge on the plan. The land (shown 
within blue verge on plan) measuring 6.66 acres more 
or less (excluding a musjid) in Ward No. 73 of the 
Corporation of Calcutta and more particularly 
described below is proposed to be acquired under 
section 35C(1) clause (a) of the Calcutta Improve- 
ment Act 

The boundary of the area comprised in the said 
scheme as well as the land proposed to be acquired 
are as follows: — 

On Che North: Starting from the north-western 
corner of Premises No. 45, Hossain Shah Road 
running eastwards along the southern edge of 
Hossain Shah Road to the north-western corner 
of No. 9C, Hossain Shah Road, then running 
southwards along the western boundaries of 
Nos. 9C and 9B, Hossain Shah Road (musjid) 
and 7, Hossain Shah Road and then eastwards 
along the southern boundary of No. 7, Hossain 
Shah Road to the south-eastern corner of No. 7, 
Hossain Shah Road, then running southwards 
along the western edge of the C. C. drain run- 
ning by the west of No. 5, Hossain Shah Road 
for a distance of 18 ft., then eastwards across 
the said drain and along the southern boundaries 
of Nos. 5 and 3, Hossain Shah Road to the south- 
eastern corner of No. 3, Hossain Shah Road. 

On the East: From this point running south- 
wards along the western boundary of the 
Calcutta Corporation Children’s playground at 
the junction of Hossain Shah Road and Deby 
Choudhury Road and the western boundaries of 
Nos. 12A, 12B and 14B Deby Choudhury Road 
to the south-western corner of No. 14B, ipeby 
Choudhury Road, then eastwards along the 
southern boundary of No. 14B, Deby Choudhury 
Road for a distance of 13ft. to the western end 
of the common passage running by the south of 
Nos. 14A and 14B, Deby Choudhury Road, then 
running southwards along the western end of 
the said common passage and the western boun- 
dary of No. 16B, Deby Choudhury Road to the 
south-western corner of No. 16B, Deby 
Choudhury Road, then running eastwards along 
the southern boundaries of Nos. 16B and 16A, 
Debv Choudhurv Road to the south-eastern 
corner of No. 16 A, Dcbv Choudhurv Road, then 
running southwards along the western edge of 
D°bv Choudhurv Road for a distance of 106 ft. 


14 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JANUARY 25 # 1962 


to a point on the eastern boundary of No. 20, 
Deby Choudhury Road, then running westwards 
across Nos. 20, Deby Choudhury Road and along 
the northern boundary of No. 22, Deby 
Choudhury Road, for a distance of 120 ft. to a 
point on the northern boundary of No. 22, Deby 
Choudhury Road, then running southwards 
across No. 22, Deby Choudhury Road to a point 
on the southern boundary of 22, Deby 
Choudhury Road, situated at a distance of 
103 ft. from its south-western corner. 

On the South: From this point running west- 
wards. then southwards, again westwards, then 
northwards and again westwards along the 
northern boundary wall of Remount Road staff 
colony of Commissioners for the Port of 
Calcutta to the south-western corner of No. 2A, 
Ismail Ostagar Lane. 

On the West: From this point running north- 
wards along the eastern edge of Ismail Ostagar 
Lane to the starting point. 

Particulars of the Scheme, a plan showing the 
scheme area and a statement of lands proposed for 
acquisition may be inspected at the office of the 
Trust at No. 10, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, 


between the hours 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. on week da\ 
and between hours 11 a.m. and 12-30 p.m. on Satiij 
days. 

3. Copies will be available on payment of th, 
following fees : — 

Particulars and other information of the schem 
— Re. 0.25 nP. 

Plan of the scheme— Re. 1.00 nP. 

Statement of lands proposed for acquisition. 
Re. 0.25 nP. 

4. Objections to the scheme will be received » 
to 10th April 1962. 

5. Under section 6A of the Land Acquisition Aa 

as introduced by the Schedule to the Calcutt 
Improvement Act, 1911, as amended by the We§ 
Bengal Act XXXII of 1955, the publication of tfi 
notice shall have the same effect as the publicatio 
of notification under section 4 of Land Acquisition 
Act. * 

K. SEN, 
Chairman. 

Calcutta, the 2nd January 1962. 


Printed end published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at the West Bengal Government Press, Alipore. 




THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 1, 1962 


f>0 


pitAeduie ui a largo (Rnorniiieiu or industrial organisation, 
(iv) Knowledge of procedure in regard to purchases 
through D.G.S. & D. 

4. Three Medical Officers (Civil Assistant Surgeons, 
Grade I), Central Training Institute for Instructors, Minis- 
try of Labour and Employment. Posts temporary and likely 

to he retained on permanent baflis. Two posts reserved 
for Scheduled < ’antes /Tribes candidates; if no such suitable 
candidates available, all posts treated as unreserved. Pay: 

IPs. 325 -25- r>()l) — :J0— 590- E. B. — 30—800. (Private 
pnwtice ot any kind will not be allowed). Higher initial 
puv t«> spenalh qualified and experienced candidates. Ago: 
-do \ cai s and below. Qualifications: Essential— (i) A 
Medical qualification included in the First or Second 
Schedule or Part 11 ot Third Schedule to the Indian Medi- 
c;vl Gunned Ad, I hoii. [Persons possessing qualifications 
included in Part II (/I Third Schedule should also fulfil the 
conditions relating to registration specified in section 13(3) 
ol the Act. | (ii) About three years’ professional experi- 
ence. (ui) Registration under a State Medical Kogister. 

5. One Examiner of Trade Marks, Trade Marks Regis- 
try, Bombay, Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Post 

tempoi sn \ but likelv to be retained on penuanent basts. 
Pay:- Its. 351) 25-- 500- 30-G50— K. B.— :tf) — 8:10. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age*. — ill) years and below. Qualifications: Essential — 

(i) Degree in Arts or Science of a recognised "University, 
(n) Degree in Law ol a recognised University, (iii) About. 

1 1 \ «« yours’ practice at the bai/live years’ nractice as a soli- 
citor/ live years’ expel leuee ol legal wort in a aolieitor’s 
oHice/teu sears’ service in tin* Trade Minks Registry. 

0. One Instructor in Agriculture, Directorate of 
Extension, Ministry of Food and Agriculture. Post tern 
poraiy but likely to continue. Post reserved lor Scheduled 
Castes/ Tribes candidate if such suitablo candidate is 
available otherwise 1 treated unreserved. Pay: — Its. 350 — 
25 ~50a~:U)- 590- K. B.— 30- 800— E. B . — 8130- -35— -900 . 
v Reused scale). Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
and experienced candidate'. Age: — Below 35 years. Quali- 
fications: Essential -(i) At least second class degree in 
Agriculture of recognised University. (ii) About three 
yews’ experience ol teaching in Agriculture iu a recognised 
Agricultural Institution. 

7. Superintendent of Agriculture (Marketing), Tripura 
Administration. Post temporary but likely to continue 
indefinitely. Other things being equal. Scheduled Castes/ 
Tribes candidate preferred. Pay: — Rs. 250— *20 — 050 — 25 — 
750. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experi- 
enced candidate. Age: — 35 years and below. Qualifications: 
Essential — (|) Degree of recognised university, (ii) About, 
three years’ experience of collection and dissemination of 
marketing intelligence in an Agricultural Marketing Orga- 
nisation of repute, (iii) Good working knowledge of 
Bengali. 

8. One Cfilef Stores Officer, Manipur State Transport, 
Manipur Administration, Post temporary but likely to 
continue. Pay:- Rs. 250— 25- 400— K. B.- 25— 150— 30 - 
(KM) -E. B. 30 — 750. Higher initial pay to specially quali- 
fied and experienced candidate Age: —30 years and below. 
Qualifications: Essential— (i) Degree in Mechanical or 
Automobile Engineering of o recognised University. 

(ii) About five years’ practical experience in mechanical or 
automobile engineering, including about three years’ experi- 
ence' of purchase and stocking oj engineering stores 

0. Qne Stores Officer, Reclamation Department, Danda- 
karanya Project, Ministry of Rehabilitation. Post tempo- 
rary blit likelv to cc/ntiniie for about three years. Post. 
reserved lor Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidate; if no such 
suitable candidate available, wall he treated as unreserved. 
Pay: — Its. 350 — 25 575 plus Project allowance of 20 per 
cent, ot pay, subject to a maximum of Rs, 100 per month. 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate Age: — 35 years ami below. Qualifications: 
Essential — (i) Degree or Diploma in Mechanical or Auto- 
mobile Engineering of a recognised University or Institu- 
tion. (ii) About three years’ experience of purchase, 
maintenance and stocking of engineering stores in a large 
industrial undertaking or a Government Department. 

10. Marketing Offioer, Directorate of Economics and 
Statistics, Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Department 
Of Agriculture). Post temporary, hut likely to continue 


indefinitely. Other things being equal, Scheduled Castes/ 
Tribes candidate preferred. Pay: — Re. 350 — 25 — 500 — 30--. 
500 K. B. —30—800. Higher initial pay to specially quah. 
tied and experienced candidate. Age: — Preferably 35 years 
and below. Qualifications: Essential— (i) At least 2nd class 
Master’s degree m Economics, Agricultural Economics, 
Commerce Statistics /or Mathematics of recognised univer- 
sity or equivalent qualifications. (ii) Training in th e 
application ol statistical methods to economic problems at 
a university oi institute ol training and research or a 
statistical office. (ui) About three years’ experience of 
collection, compilation and analysis of data regarding pn ct!s 
and other marketing intelligence in an economic or market- 
ing organisation. 

ii. One Assistant Engineer (Design), Kandla Port Pro* 
ject, Ministry of Transport and Communications. Post tem- 
porary hut likely to he retained on permanent basis e\eii- 
1 1111*1 Jy . Other things being equal, preference will be given 
to Scheduled Gastcs/ Tribes candidate. Pay: — Rs. 275 — 25 
-500 -K. B. — ;U) 650 — K. B. — 30 — 800. Higher initial pay 
to specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age;J~ 
:r> years and below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) Degnv 
in Civil Engineering ol a recognised University, (ii) About 
time years’ experience in the design construction and 
maintenance ol Civil Engineering works. Or (i) l)i| 

•buna 

in CimI Engineering ol a recognised Institution, (ii) About 
eight years’ experience in an approved capacity in the 
design, coiistiuctmn and maintenance of Civil Engineering 
works 

12 Assistant Works Manager (on probation) / Metailur* 
gist for the Ordnance Factories Organisation, Ministry ol 
Defence [now redesignated as Assistant Manager (on pro- 
bation)/ Metallurgist]. Post penuanent. Pays— Hi:. 4(X)- 
100-150 30-000— 35 -070— F. B. — 35- 950. Higher initial 
paw to specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age: 

-Not less than 20 and not more than 25 years. Jn the 
case ot candidates holding permanent appointments m 
Ordnance Factories, they should be over the ago of 25 
yea i s but not more than 30 years. Qualifications: Essen- 
tial- Degree in Metallurgy of a recognised university. Or 
Associate Membership ot appropriate recognised institu- 
tion. 

13 One Lecturer in Geography (Method and Content), 
D. M. College, Imphal, Manipur Administration. Post 
tempoi ary hut likely to continue. Other things being 
eipnul, preloietice will he given to Scheduled Castes/Tnb^ 
candidate. Pay:— Rs. 225 -15— 300- E. B. — 20-500 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienm] 
candidate. Age:- -30 years and below. Qualification: 
Essential — (i) At least second class Master’s or ♦*quival°nt 
Honours Degree m Geography ol u recognised University 
(n) About tlnee years* teaching experience . 

1 1. Assistant Director of Industries, Tripura Adminis- 
tration. Post temporary, but likely to continue indefinitely 
Other tilings being equal, Scheduled Castes /Tribes candi- 
date pro fern d Pay:— Its. 250 --20 — (350 -25—750. Higher 

initial paw to specially qualified and experienced candidate 
Age: Between 30 and 45 years. Qualifications: Essen* 
tial (i) Degree m Textile Technology of a recognised 
mm ersity or equivalent . (ii) About three years’ adminiv 
trative and field experience in drawing and execution 
phms f oi Hirtidlooni industries preferably in the Industry 
department of a State Government or AH India Hamllnutn 
Board. 

15. Curator, Central National Herbarium, Botanical 
Survey of India. Post temporary-, but likely to become 
pei nianent . Othei things being equal, Scheduled Uastcs 1 
Tribes candidate preierred. Pay: — Rs.’ .‘150—25—500--^)- 

51)0 E B. 30 800. Higher initial pay to speouill} 
qualified and experienced candidate Age: — 35 years .wi 

below. Qualifications: Essential— (i) At least 2nd fl®« 
M.S( or equualent. FTonours degree* in Botany of reeog- 
uised university (n) About two years’ experience 1 
i e 4 - eari'li in Plant I axonninv as evidenced bv pu))]i s M 
papers. 

10. One Technical Assistant (Selection Grade), Dir* 
torate of Extension, Ministry of Food and Agrioultuff- 

Post temporary but likely to continue. Post reserved fa 
Scheduled Tribes candidate; if no such suitable candidate 

available, will lie treated as unreserved. Pay: Rs, ‘$3- . 

15 17*>- E B. — 20 575 (if an officer already in srrvitf 
under State Government is appointed, he may be allow*! 



jUKT li J 


l 


ri CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 1, 1962 


51 


i>uy plus 2l) per cent, deputation pay). Higher initial 
lu ‘ specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age; 
seu rs and below. Qualifications: Essential— (i) Degree 
' Vgricultural or Mechanical Engineering ol a recognised 
11 lVO isity, or equivalent. (ii) About three years’ held 
^riiem'o in Agricultural Engineering/ Mechanical Engi- 

One Chief Instructor, Workshop Wing, Extension 
ducation Institute, Nilokheri, Directorate of Extension, 
Ministry of Food and Agriculture. Dost temporary and 
,*iuh 1 for Scheduled Caste candidate ii such a suitable 
* n-liilale us available- otherwise to be treated as unreseiv- 
pay: -Us. H5U 25 2>uu :i0— E. lb— HO- #uu~ 
p sd( > --H5 — 1HKJ. Higher initial pay to specially 
» 1 1 lift 1 and experienced candidate. Age: — do years ami 
IIm. Qualifications: Essential- (i) Degree m Aguoul- 
V }1 | Kngnieci mg oi a recognised University. (ii) About 
i ^ais' piiK-’tica! experience m use, repair and manufacture 
small agricultural implements and tools, (in) Some 
Lrlnuc. experience in Agricultural Engineering subjects 
aid practice oi speaking in Hindi. 

is Two Assistant Executive Engineers (Radio), Depart- 
ment of Lighthouses and Lightships, Ministry of Transport 
(nd Communications. Post temporary but likely to couti- 
f Posts reserved lor Scheduled Castes candidate's; il 
' ‘ U( .h suitable candidates available, will he treated as 
‘nu-M'i \ I'd. Pay Its. 400- -400- 4r>() — ;U) — H(K) — 35 — 070— 

; Higher initial pay to specially qualified 

im l rxpeiieneed candidates. Age: -HO years and below, 
lualiftcations: Essential — (i) Degree* in Tole-commumeation 
iii^meei mg. or Electrical Engineering with Radio Commu- 
luatum as a special subject, ol a recognised University. 
j U) About two years 1 exjjelience in the wileless held, 
iiclmlmg installation and mamteu.mec ol wireless trails 
[utters and lecturers. 

j id. Deputy Director (General), Ministry of Food and 
Agriculture (Department of Food). Post temporary, but 
hep t<> continue. Post reserved lor Scheduled Pastes 
Ludalate, who alone need apply. Pay:— Its. 700—10— 
[|ih) HO, '2— 1.250 Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
Ll c\pei leiicod candidate. Age: 50 years and below lor 
'll including (Government servants. Qualifications: Essen- 
lal i ) Degrc'e ol recognised university. (n) About live 
ins’ pi art leal experience m a responsible capacity m the 
KiitiiiusL i abion ot lood, such as import, purchase, market- 
L .md inocureiiicnt ol 1‘oodgrains or foodstuffs in a (<ov 
biiMU'iit department or a commeicial film of repute, 
jin) \t liu trust rative experience. 


i a udid.i u*. Age: - Preferably below 50 years for all includ- 
ing (u>\ ornmem m»i units. Qualifications: Essential - 
(i) Research degree in Psychology or equivalent qualifica- 
tions. (u) Research work ol a high order in the field over 
a I airly long period. 

2H. One Assistant Executive Engineer (Lecturer in 
Survey), College of Military Engineering, Kirkee, Ministry 
Of Defence, Post temporary and likely to continue tor an 
mdehmie pel md. Post icservod lor Scheduled Castes 
(.mdidate it no such suitable candidate available, will bo 
UcatC as uiuesei \ ed Pay: -Rs. It H I 100 — 450— 30 -000 

H5 0/0 E. Ik- .15 — 950 Higher initial pay to specially 
<|iuli!ie 1 and expei joined candidate. Age: — .‘15 years and 
in low. Qualifications: Essential-- (i) \t least Second Class 
l)«'giee m Cn i] Engineering ot a recognised university, or 
equivalent i u i Atmut lluee years’ teaching/ practical 
e\pei icnce m smveyiug. 

INDIAN NAVY EXAMINATION, JULY 1962 

THE Union Public Service Commission will hold an 
Examination at Allahabad, llangaloie, Bhopal, Bombay, 
Cid- atta, Cuttack, Delhi, Hyderabad, Madras, Patiala, 
Shillong, Smiagai and Tnvaiidruin commencing on 11th 
July I \ M il? I oi M'li'ction of Special Entry Cadets lor the 
Indian Na\y. Age Limits: — ( ’audidat.es must have been 
born not earlier than ‘2nd July If) 1 H, and not later than 

I si .1 u’ s 1015. These age limits can in no case be relaxed. 
Qualifications : -Intermediate or equnalent. Applications 
timn t.mdidales who ha\c appealed or intend to appear at 
Intel mediate nr equivalent examination acceptable provi- 
sion, ili\ Application forms and full particulars obtainable 
i loin *->.'( id >.| y , t nioii Pubis- Ser\ ire ( ’oinmissioii, Dholpui 

I I mi - e , I) II Q P () , N»>v\ l)cllu-ll, by remitting Re. 1-tH) 
by mone\ older or on easli payment at the count(*r. A 
< mididale miisi (leaily state on moncv order coupon 
“Indian Navy Examination, July 1962“ and also give his 
name and full postal address in block letters. Postal orders 
Ol < lieqnes or (iirrency notes will not bn accepted in lieu 
of nione\ eiders. Application forms and connected papers 
are also obtainable free hum the nearest Naval Oflice. 
Only Unmarried Male Candidates can apply for admission 
to this examination. Completed applications must reach 
• be I'll loll Public Sen ice Commission by 20th March 1962 
t'hli April 1902, in the ease ol candidates tesiding abroad 
oi m 'ndaman and Nieoba«r Islands). 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


:ii Three Junior Scientific Officers, Research and Deve- 
ipment Organisation, Ministry of Defence. Pasts tempo- 
'll but likely tio continue anti be retained on permanent 
i-e Pay:- - IN .150 — 25 — 500 -A0 - 2590— E. H - HO - S(K) — 

. Il HU— <SHU — H5 -900. Highei initial pay to specially 
j-dified and experienced candidates Age: —Below HO 
Mix Qualifications: Essential- For two posts: At least 
Actual Class Degree in Tele-communication Engineering or 
jet 1 1 icu 1 Kiigmccrjng with Tele-communication as a special 
or Sect/nd Class Master’s or equivalent Honours 
e rU»*» iii Physics with Wncless or Electronics as a spt»cial 
ibjeci or Degree in instrument Technology’ For one post: 

) Vt b*ast Second (Hass Master's or equivalent Honours 
in Physics with specialisation in Quantum Meclia- 
< 41 1 1 beniiodynaiiiics. (ii) Research experience ior about 

u \i* ar . 


21 One Principal Scientific Officer, Aeronautical Deve- 
pnient Establishment, Ministry of Defence. Post tempo- 
F' * JUl hkely to be retained on permanent basis even- 
Pays- -Rs. 1,100— 50— 1,200— 400--4, 500. Higher 

!t, “‘ PJ.' to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
: ~J5 years and bolow. Qualifications: Essential — 
Ructorale in Electrical Kngineeriiig/Eled mines ol a 
luiiM'd University, or equivalent qualification. 

.■' ’(‘•it ten years’ experience* in research, design or 
* n l ,,l,l ‘iit work in aviation electronics or in instrunieii- 
,!‘ Ml V i about three years should have been in a 

Visible capacity. 


J 5 ] 16 Frincipal Scientific Officer, Directorate of Fly- 
»afety, Air Headquarters, Ministry of Defence. Post 
)iarv but likely to continue and be retained on per- 
I Pay :— Rs. 1 ,100 -50—1 ,200— 1(H)— 1 ,500. 

1 m, tial pay to specially qualified and experienced 


Genoral instructions to candidates applying In response ts 
advertisements issued by the Commission for recruit- 
ment to posts of “Selection". 

( 1 ) Instructions regarding submission of application. - 

\pplieatiniis are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor). 
Alipeie. (’ub-ul ta-27, personally or on sending & large self 
.i.ldi esseil eu\eh/j»e with stamps sufficient to co\ er the 
postage affixed to it Candidates who arc unable to obtain 

ropu-s ol the pi est-i ibcd form may apply on any similar 
tvped (not handwritten) form showing exactly the word 
mg ond spacing ol the sample form published in the 
“Cab-iiltii (Gazette” of the 1st September 1955, provided 
1 1n* blanks arc' filb*d un in the candidates’ own handwriting 

(2) Particulars and certificates required.— Candidates 

should I imiish evidence a| their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together wotli certificotes written not 
more than one year prior to tin* date ol their applications, 
'mm responsible persons, tesl living to their private 

efiaraeier 

The ('nmmiHsion accepts only the age of a candidate as 
lecorded m the Mat rieulatioii or the Secondary School 
Kinn I / Leaving ( Vrt ifu ate* In the case of a lemalc candi- 
date whose age is not recorded m the Matriculation or 
School Einal Certificate, any of the following evidence of 
ago is accepted by the Commission: — 

1 A certificate from the Headmistress of the school 
which she Inst attended, showing her exact age as 
recorded in the school register. 



Til K CALCUTTA GAZKTTK, FEBRUARY 1, 1962 


[Part r 


na 


2. An affidavit regarding her age eworn by her father 
or mother or some other person in a position to 
know by having been present or heard of her birth 
at the time of occurrence. 

H. A certificate regarding her age, from a Member of 
the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who must 
have known the candidate and her family, indicat- 
ing clearly the evidence on the basis of which he/ 
she satisfied himself /herself on the point. 

(H) Fee.- Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Its ft in the form of a receipted ehalan 
from a Government. Treason or the Reserve Bank ot India 
under the head “XXXV 1 Miscellaneous — Receipts of tht 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal”. Money order*, 
cheques, etc., in lieu ot treasury challnns are not accepted. 
Postal ordor, however, may be accepted Irom candidates. 
They should be crossed and made payable to “The Secre- 
tary, Public Service Commission, West. Bengal”. No appli- 
cation will be considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application fee. 

Candidates abroad may depowt their application fees 
with the High Commissioner of India or the Embassy, ae 
the ea*e may be, and obtain receipts lor the same, which 
will have to be attached to their applications to be sub- 
mitted to the Commission. 

Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depositing fee that their applications will be forward- 
ed by their superior officers. In no case will the fee paid 
with the application be i el u ruled. 

The Commission may remit tee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona lido displaced person from Pakistan. 

An indigent displaced person shall, in the find instance, 
pay the application fee prescribed tor a gazetted post 
advertised h\ the Commission hut if hc/sbo is selected for 
and appears at the niton low, the lee paid by him/her will 
he refunded afterwards. 

Note “(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 

must iurnisli with Ins application satisfactory evidence 
that ho is bona fide displaced person lrom Pakistan, e.g , 
refugee registration card 01 a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member ol Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original. 

(n) A member of the Scheduled Cob to or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his appli- 
cation a certificate m original irom a gazetted officer or a 
Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging to 
the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which fie claims to belong. 

(ni) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion lee must lurmsh besides the evidence required under 
Note (i) above, a eeitifioate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or ft Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a positimi to 
pay the pi escribed fee.” 

(4) Address. — C andidates should give their preaent 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address 

(ft) Canvassing. — Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support o* their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify then: 
tor appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
jHirsons interested m the < undulates or otherwise known 
to them will tie disregarded 

(6) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment, under imy Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Dumodar Valley Corporation), in 
India will iie rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority ot their posts or service. 

Candidates serving under Government or a local or 
Statutory Body should submit an advance copy in the pres- 
cribed form. The application fee should in such cases be 
attached to the advance copy and not to the origiual. The 
candidature of such applicants may not however ho con- 
sidered if tlu^ original applications do not reach the Com- 
mission’s office within a fortnight from the closing date. 
Unless applications in original or advance copies with 
application tees are received within the closing date, late 
applications may be rejected. 

A C. HOY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

All pore, the 27th January 196i. 


Advertisement No. 4 

APPLICATIONS are invited from Indian citizens for 
tol lowing posts: — e 

(a) One Chief Engineer. Corporation of Caloutta. p 0 f 

permanent. Pay: — Rs. 1,500 — 100—2,000 plus a Motor Cal 
allowance of Rs. 150 per month provided the incuinW 
in the pc/st maintains a motor car of his own for Corpora 
Hon work, plus other usual allowances. 

Qualifications: — (i) A degree in Civil Engineering of ^ 
ic ocnised Indian University or an equivalent foreign dog ree 
oi i nrporate Membership of the Institution of Engineer 
(India) oi equivalent qualifications recognised by the iustu 
I ul ion c/I Engineers (India); (ii) Ten years’ experience as 
a«n Engineer in a responsible post or posts under Govern, 
ment or a statutory body, or in a reputed Engineering ur 
const tuclion concern; (iii) Wide experience in the (.ob- 
struction and maintenance of metalled roads, in design and 
constructimi ol sewerage system, sewage disposal tieatJ 
ment plants and water supply system of » large citv 
(i\) Ability to supervise a large office and control labour 
stafi. Age: — Ordinarily between 10 and 50 years on q Je 

1st Match J962. relaxable at the discretion o| the 
Bengal Public Service Commission for » person otherwise 
well -qualified. 

Closing date— The 3rd March 1962. (Em candidate, 
abroad — The 17th March 1962). 

(h) One Senior Assistant Architect under the Public 
Works Directorate, West Bengal In the West Beng« 
General Service. Post temporary. Pay:— Rs. 800-40. 
HOIK) (E. B.) Hi 1 ,200 per month plus usual allow uuecs 
Higher initial pa> admissible on age basis up to HA v ears, 
the pay roritvponding lo that age being Bs. 1,000, provL 
del Lhe candidate possesses at least 7 years’ expem-h^ 

Qualifications: — (i) A degree in Architecture of a 
nned University or Associate ship of the Koval Institute 5 
British Architects; (ii) Throe years’ experience in si 
Architect’s office or with the Architectural (Section oi some 
Public Body or of a Government Department. Age:~ 
Be tween HO and 40 years on the 1st February 1902, th 
up.ier age limit being rclaxable in the ease ‘ of u well- 
qu. Sifii'd a ml o\periem ed candidate. 

The uppei ago limit iy also rexable by five yeaif lua 
Scheduled (’astes /Tribes and up to 45 years for* displmej 
pc.si/ns l rum Pakistan 

V candidate who holme the lfttli August 1047, v,« 
dei ained, imprisoned, interned or extorned on account ii) 
ho activities in connection with the country’s struggle In] 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicate 
movftl turpitude, .shall be entitled to a concession iu ith 
P p t ( d the upper age limit. The concession granted uiif 
he equal Lo the exact period ol detention, iin prison met tl 
internment or extornmeuL suffered up to u maximum 4 
four years. 

Closing date- The 22nd February 1962. 

< ) One Associate Assistant Professor of Applied Meoli 
me* m the West Bengal General Service. Post temping 
W. men unsuitable. Pay:- Rs. 500-4)0—751) per uioril 
pit s dearness allowance. 

qualifications: Essential— (i) A first class Bachelor 
de -J*CC oi a Post-graduate degree m Civil or Mechanic! 

Ei .'mooring o i equivalent qualification; (ji) Five 1 veal* 
expoi lence iu bis specialised engineering field; (iii) Speed 
kn »w ledge ot aiis one or more of the following: AdvaiicJ 
IU ilranlu s , Strength oi Materials; Technical Dvnuuiitf 
I b *nr\ of Structures. Desirable— (i) Industrial expei kW 
<u experience in Uivil Engineering design and const ruetd 
wi; k. (ii) 'reaching and research experience in an mstu* 
turn ol university standard, (iii) Good power of express 
m Bengali, (iv ) Corpoiate Membership of prolessioimJ <( 
lea’ uni societies. Special condition— Willing participate 
in tin' corporate life ol the college by taking part in gw 
ami sports ami social activities and interest in the weM 
of the students The qualifications are relaxable at Ce^ 
mir sion’s discretion in the case of a candidate others 
well-qualified. Age :— Ordinarily not below 27 ycuis on M 
1st February 1962, relaxable in the case o‘f ruiuliibjj 
possessing exceptionally higli qualifications and for new 
liolding substantive appointment in the Education 
ment. West Bengal. 

Closing date— The 22nd February 1962. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 1, 1962 


53 



iv to Secretary with a Treasury Chalan ot --- 
V’ 1 ' * “XXXVI— Miscellaneous— Rewipts of Pubhr 

[Mi' 1 *’ 1 ' ! West Bengal” or a Crossed Postal 

hr‘o Rs 5 payable to “Secretary, Public Ser ™™ 
H e li mi ’ West' Bengal”. Overseas candidates may 
their application fees with the High Commission 
K\^ or the Indian Embassy, as the case may be. 
»i l nc J . . im i ni inscribed application forms obtainable 
’ a,l 7l‘o office ot the Commission. Anderson House (ground 
Vlim/re Calcutta-27 personally or on sending a 
envelope (Mze 10'xCM with postage stamp 
,V ' ami the name of the post superscribed on the 
* 1 ", ' Those who intend to take application forms and/ 
,|U Kmil applications personally should do so between 
,; L r:; b ^ 3 » p.m. on full working days and between 

fts a-m’. and 12-:«> p.m. on Saturdays. 


A. C. ROY, Secretary, 
lie Sen ice Commission, West Bengal 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE, 4TH COURT OF 
24-PARGANAS 

Insolvency Case No. 3 of 1962 

Ihtimdi Busloro of M. C. Road, P.0, and P.S. Hazinagar, 
district 24-Par ganas — A ppl ican t . 

To Chandrama Singh of Halisaher Kona, P.S. Bijpur. 
district 21-Parganas and I others — Creditors. 

()\ the 19th day of January 1962 it was ordered tlmt 
the matter of the' petition ot the applicant be hoard cm 
the 23rd day of February 1962 and that the said applicant 
to attend ti> be examined by this Court on that date. 

Alipore, the 22nd Junuarv 1962. 

N. G. C11AUD1IURI, Sub-Judge. 

(108- -n 


r ore, the 20th January 1002. 

IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE, 4TH COURT OF 
24-PARGANA8 

” Insolvency Case No. 2 of 1982 


ORDER OF A I MEDICATION 


Tills, I). i.i Paul, sou ot late Sure.urlra Nath Paul of 04 
(ioalapara R</ad, P.S. Behala, district 24-Parganas — 
Applicant. 


; P ,ncm 27 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 


V of 1(120) 


To '•divsm Kartiek Prnsnd Sha of 18 Circular Garden Reach 
Road. Calcutta-23 and 7 others -Creditors. 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE, 4TH COURT 
!" AT ALIPORE 

Insolvency Application No. 36 of 1961 

Pl’Ttsr \NT 1.0 a petal ion. dated 17th August M>61 . filed 
, s,l vend.a N.atli Tlishi ol D/X Vicur Park 
f T II. district 21-Pari'anas, Debtor, and oil the 
L|, hul WA»r«b of No. 2. Man,,, is Street 

V la.lii, Creditor, and on reading the applmatam. of 
, , I it ot- and hearuiR his laivyei it is ordered that, the 
, t ,„ i,,. 1 Iln d the said debtor is hereby adjudged insolvent. 

1, ,, further orde.ccl that I lie debtor do apply lor Ins 
sliaige within olli duly P.IC2 

Dim'd this 22nd day ot January 1062. 

N. 0. ( HAUDHUm. Judge. 

(Ill) -1) 


THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE, 4TH COURT OF 
24-PARGANAS 


ON the tilth dm of January 1962 if was ordered that 
the matter ol the petition of the applicant be hoard on tho 
23rd day ot February 1962 and that tlie said applicant to 
attend to be examined by this Court, on that. aato. 

Alipore, the 22nd January 19(12. 

N. G. CHAUDIIURJ, Sub-Judge. 

(109—1) 


NOTICE 
District Howrafi 

IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, HOWRAH 

Insolvency Case No. 4 of 1962 

TAKE notice that an application has boon fded by Kashi 
Prosad A gar wa la, son of late Iswar Das Khfritan, of 9 
Jugmohan Mullick Lane, Calcutta, for adjudging M. 
M endes. Technical Welder, Calcutta Tramways Co. Ltd., 
mauling at present, at Railway quarters, Bamangachi. 
Howrah, an insolvent The application hiss been admitted 
and fixed on 17th February 1902 lor hearing. 

J. N. HORE, 
District Judge. 

(91 — 1) 


Insolvency Case No. 4 of 1982 

la thisfore of M. C Road. P.O. and P.S. Hazinagar, 
di-st ri<t 21-Parganas — Applicant. 

( hand i am a Singh of Halisaher Kona, P.S. Bixpore, 
‘list ru t 21-Parganas, and 8 others Creditors. 

t\ tlu> 19t.h dav of January 1962 it was ordered that 
nmttrr ert the petition of the applicant be hoard on 
Slrd dav of February 1962 and that the said applicant 
■it tend to be examined by this Court on that date. 

the 22nd January 1962. 

N. G. CHAUDHURI, Sub-Judge. 

( 107 - 1 ) 


NOTICE 
Dlstriot Howrah 

IX THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, HOWRAH 

Insolvency Case No. 2 of 1962 

TAKE notice that an application has been filed hv 
Chhedihfl. residing at 18 Mullick Street, Calcutta, for adjud- 
ging Tarit Kumar Gupta, Returned Stockverifier at Mauri 
Project, Ranchi, at present residing at Railway quarters, 
Lillooah, district Howrah, an insolvent. The application 
has been admitted and fixed on 17th February 1962 for 
hearing 

J. N. HORE, 
District Judge. 

( 92 - 1 ) 


54 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 1, 1962 


[Part j 


NOTICE 

Distriot Howrah 

IN THK COURT OF THE DiSTRICT JUDGE, HOWRAH 

Insolvency Case No. 3 of 1962 

TAKE notu-e that an application ln*s been filed by 
Kasliipiosad Agarwala, son of late Iswar Das Kluiitan, 
residing No. 9, Juginohan Mullick Tjane, Calcutta, for 
adjudging David Simon, Super Cargo, Commissioners for 
the Poif of Calcutta, at present residing at Loco quarters, 
Bainuugachi, Howrah, an insolvent. The application h»e 
been admitted and fixed on 17th February 1962 for hearing. 

J. N. HOKE, 
District Judge. 

(9,V-1) 


NOTICE 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA, IN IN80LVEh c 
N otice of Adjudication Order 

No. 1 OF 1962 

Re. Mrs. Cynthia May Gale at present residing 
No. 10/2, Marquis Street in the town of Calcutta an 
working for gam as a Stenographer under 
Imperial Chemical Industries (India) “P” Ltd! ! 
No. IS, Strand Road in Calcutta aforesaid, ex nan 
the dehlor In person. “ 

ON the Hth day of January 1962, an order was w 
by the High Court at Calcutta in its Insolvency Jurindir 
tion adjudging the abovenanied as an Insolvent. J 

Nole — All debts due to the estate should be paid to me 
6 Couueil i Ionise Street, Calcutta, 
this Kith day of January 1962. 

M. M. CHAKRABAJJT 

Official Assignee ol ( "ale utt 


District Howrah 

IN THK COURT OK THK DISTRICT JUDGE, HOWRAH 

Insolvency Case No. 5 of 1962 

T\KE notice that an application haw been filed hy 
Kashi Prosnd Agarwala, son of late Iswar Das Khaitan, 
residing at No 9. .lug Mohf*n Mulliek Lane, Calcutta, for 
adjudging C D. Rozarin, Yard Master, Eastern Railway, 
at present residing at railway quarters, Block No. 5, 
Santraga«chi, Howrah, an insolvent. The application has 
been admitted and fixed on 17th February 1962 for hearing. 

IILLKGIRLK1, 
District Judge. 

(94 -1) 


NOTICE 

District Saran, Bihar 

IN THK COURT OF MUNSIF OF GOP A LG AN J 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA, IN IN80LVENC 
No. 26 of 1984 

Re. Baluram Ladia, Almaram Laclia, Sawalram Ladia 
(Estate- SnmwfBs Ladia & Ors. Firm : Anandram Sn;mwa< 

NOTICE is hereby given that an Order of Cum ws 
made on the 1st August 1961 directing that the hIioti 
mimed Insolvents, viz . Baluram Ladia, Atmarwm Ladia an 
Sawalram Ladia, he dischargetl subject to their consentm 
to a decree being pa-ssed against each of them in l;uo’i 
ol the Official Assignee lor the sum of Rs. i.Vhii 
Rs. 2A,noo and R's. 1(1, (MM) respectively. 

The said Older was completed m flic 2£tb NovcmW 
1901 . 

6 Council House Street, 

Calcutta, the 20th January 1962. 

M. M. CHAKRA PARTY ! 

Official Assignee ol CnkmtJ 


STATE BANK OF INDIA 
Notice 


Title iUit NO. 296 Of 60 

(1) Gulab S;*h, son of Puran Sail, deceased, (2) Mt. Ram- 
ratia, widow ol Puran Sah, deceased, by caste Rauniar, 
occupation cultivation, of village Patkhouli, Pergana 
Kuari, P.O. jwid P.S. Kateya. District Saran — 
Plaintiffs. 

versus 

(I) Jwala Patliak and (2) Kashi Patliak, .sons of Deoki 
Pathak, deceased, by caste Brahaman, oeeu])ation culti- 
vation, of village Patbkouli, Pergana Kuari, P.O. and 
P.S. Kateya, district Sarwn (Bihar), at present No. 1 
IJ.T M. Fittei T. No. 941, Howrah Loco Department 
E A , lesiding at quarter No. 12 B.N.R. quarter Tikiya 
Para, Howrah, at present No. 2 quartet, No. 10 B.N.R. 
quarter, No 19, Howrah, Calcutta, Loco Department. 

WHKRKAS tin' abovenanied plaintiffs have filed a title 
suit against the abovetiamed 2 defendants and A cithers and 
the aho\e two defendants are not appearing in spite of all 
efforts made a ild are reported to he traceless. 

„ notice this notice is given to yon Jawala Pathak and 
Kashi Pathak to appear before this court on 2Ath February 
196*2 personally or through any lawyer failing which the 
suit will he taken up m your absence according to law. 

Given under my hand and the seal of this court this 
39th .January 1962. 

D. P. MUKHARJEE, 
Munsif of Gopalganj (Saran). 

(90-1) 


Calcutta, 19th January 1962 

THE following appointments on the Bank’s stuff 
hereby notified: — 

Shn D Chatter joe to art as Superintendent Htai 
Department, District No. 1, Calcutta Lorn I B 
Office, as horn the 1st November 1961. 

SJni l\l. B. Dutta to act as Superintendent. Hi i 
Department, District No. 2, Calcutta Local R< 
Office, as Loin the 1st November 1961, 

Shn J. S. Vnrslineya to act as Superintendent. Bnu 
Department, District No. 1 , Calcutta Local Hf 
Office, as from the 1st November 1961. 

Shri S D. Gamla to act as Superintendent, Than 
Department, District No. 3, Calcutta Local He 
Office, as from the 13th November 1961. 

Shri K. K. Banerji acted ns Superintendent, Hrau 
Department, District No. A, Calcutta Local Hoj 
O ffice, Irom the 1st November to the 28th 
her 1961 inclusive. 

Shri S. R. Basu to act as Superintendent UrMf 
Department, District No. 5, Calcutta Local 
Office, as from the 29t,h December 1961 vice Shri 1 
K. Banerji. 

By order, 

B. K. KACKER. 

Secretary and TrcaM^r 

(100-lj 


]'vllT TI ] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. FEBRUARY 1, 1962 


55 


c*rpits tsffla | 

TOfifl ^pFf*T?f€p * 

ifla»*naT ^5TT«ra«T^ TOM CT, ^ 

^"cTI bObtt 5fTC*m *64 TO5T^ f C^TT ** *rti>TO 

TWX ’JTOTO 4*TlTO<!f ta*5rfafare STOTT 

faarre st?n >h *:?>&* *nws *srr rf+m $$c$ wra 

^4 sn^ +W'** 4=* *HT WATCH tSfTAT TOHTW5 I AT^TAT 

piffafip tWTT ei5r.N0 5^1 TOH, ^tSTTCH $ AACA ^ffWA ?[5 aT ^T<T> 
iffarX) ^ITCSR I CTO TO«T =TT H*f%T CT CTO <SPF ?TTTO 

2|5ti<i <1^ ^<TCRJ **W A61A^ ®^TO I STTO <W3F CT ARTTA <5IA> 
jftA^ $$M TOP Wa 5 IjTOT HlfW 53tCT, d^<l 

stera htIac? faro ^5 cai 5fo— 

th i, i1*t whrrcp 

c*$ : NpFHim 

(*) dlt/NT^ 

(5) 

(0) U^faTff^t 

(8) mv^s 

in) WfTOrfa 
ib) ^ITOT 
iq) atIwm 

H/) *1K14I\|?1 

«*) srf^w;fc 

io) CHA5IPT 
AfART^ 

'i*> AffTAWn^l 
iO) drtsfTO C?S'r^TMT 
iR) a^iatTa 
<i(D ATT^fi 
'^) *rt'^7A%A 
'^) smfasi 
l ^) V<tctT»i 

TOTsnfara*fT^ 

^0) TO*f^J 
( ^) Micron 
wmrcwrjfa 

l * 0) 


SHRI NR1PENDRAKUMAR DE, B.L., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 

( 17 — 4 ) 


SHR1 SUIH SANKAR SARKAR, L L.B., intends to bo 
enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court of Calcutta. 

( 18 — 4 ) 


SURF TAPAN KTTMAR SEN GUPTA, LL.B., intends to 
he enrolled as ail Advocate in the High Court at Calcutta. 

( 19 — 4 ) 


ANAND MAH A RAJ, LL.B., intends to he enrolled as an 
Advocate of the (Calcutta High Court. 

( 20 — 4 ) 


SIIRI BHABES CHANDRA SARKAR intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate oi the Calcutta High Court. 

( 21 - 4 ) 


SHR! JASODA KUMAR ROY, B.L , intends to bo 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 22 - 4 ) 


A. Q M ABU NASER, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 

•( 29 — 4 ) 


BIBHUTI BHUSAN RAY CHOUDHURY, LL.B., intends 
1c/ he enrolled as }i*n Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(,‘ 10 — 4 ) 


SANKAR DAS GUPTA, LL.B. ; intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate oi the Calcutta High Court 


ST^JSTT filler (,*J£ I 


( 31 - 4 ) 


yji |«; CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 1, 1962 


[Part 


Till 


I’l! \IMfUI.I. ' KUMAR MAJUMDAR, LL.B.. intends to 
l„. ,mm olliti its an AlIvik ate <>r tin- Calcutta. High Court. 

(32-4) 


\MU KUMAR UIIOKli, LL.B., intends to he enrolled 
,\d\ oimIc ol the Calcutta High Court. ^ ^ 


1 , 


.IAYANTA MAJUMDAR, LTj.R., intend to enrol as 
All' oeiite oi tin High Con it Calcutta. (.‘14—4) 


AI1INDRA KUMAR ADHYA, LL.B.. intends to 
‘tii oiled as imi Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 60 - , 


HIM ADR I SANKAII MA,JUMDAR, M.A., LLj 
intt uds to he e in oiled as un Advocate, Cal. High Corut. 

(61)- 


J'RATYI Sll KUMAR MAJUMDAR, B.Com. It; 
int (uidr, to he enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court 

(70- 


KK.DAR NATH DATTA B.Com., LL.B intends to be 
enrolled as an Advoeale of the Calcutta High Court.. 


(SO 1) 


lx 


(jOYivi) n Alt AVAN KARRA, M.A., LL.B., intends to 
> eiimlled as an Aduieate of the < alcutta High Court. 

( 61 — 4 ) 


SI I It I SA AM \ KANTA GHOSHAL. LL.B., intends 
l)t' unrolled ns an Advocate oi the Calcutta High Court. 


(78-- 


-s WTIMOV HAST, B.COM., LL.B., intends to bo entoll 
as an Advocate oi the Calcutta High Couit. 

(79— 


KAURENDRA MOHAN HASH, M.A., LL.B , intends to 
lie enrolled as imi Adtoeate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(52 — 4) 


CURSKTJKK MANACK.IEE RUSTOM.TEE, LL.B.. 
tends to ho enrol led as ail Advoeale ol the Cal. High Con 


(80- 


DWIPKNDBA NATH DK, LL.B., intends to 
u* all VdNuvato ol I he Calcutta High Comt. 


be enrolled 


(53-4) 


HIPPSITIMN’ I’HASAD CH A V 1)1 1 URY, LL.B., mlends 
lie eiii oiled as an Advoeale ol the Calcutta High Court 

(81- 


f H T C \L KHIIOHE dETHALJA, LL.B., intends to 

S\TY\ X \ B \Y \N DANCA1CH, LL.B., intends to be t „ r „||,.d as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court, 
enrolled as' an Aduieate ot the Cah utta High Court. 

(, r i4 — 4) ' “ 


|,\LT\ PRASAT) TIWARL LL.B., intends to be enrol 
avia RAN 1 JAN MUKHOI’ADTTYAY, LL.B., intends as „n Advocate nil lie Calcutta High Court, 

to he enrolled as an Advocate of Hie Calcutta High Court. (&- 

(55—4) 


R AM UAL MUNDI1RA. LL B . intends to lie enrolled 
as Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 


f 


aSHIU CYAN CIIANI) KASKBA, LL.B , intends to be 
cut oiled ns an Achoeate of the ('alcutta High Corurt. 


(57 — 4) 


DTItCA ^\NKAR MELL1CK, LL.B., intends to 
< iirollo ] as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 84 - 


SWADHIN KEMAB GUPTA, LL.B, intends to 
on i oiled as an athoeule of the Calcutta High Court 

( 85 - 


B\P.1NI)R\ KUMAR 

admitted as an Adxoeate 


N AC, 
in the 


LL.B., intends to he 
High Court at Calcutta. 


(58 — 4) 


mBAPB \SANNA S1NHA, B.L , intends to 
fiimbed as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(85- 


SHRI MUKUL GHOSH, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 


\RDHENOl SEKH Alt CHAUDHURl, LL.B.. n» tl 
lo he enrolled as an Advocate ot Calcutta High Comt 

( 87 - 



[MR'i' if] 


57 


THE CAlit’T'TTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 1, 1962 


11 MIR KTTM.AR RAY, LL.1L, intends to ho enrolled as 

„ \dvoe:ite ol the Calcutta High Court. 

•ff * /ini n 


1 ) 1 1,1 j» KUMAR DAS (iUl’TA. UL.R.. intomls to be 
rn rnll<'d ns an Advocate ol the Calcutta Hit;h ( ourt. 

(102—4) 


\ \ { ; \ R M A I, ACKAWMi. 1.1, R . intends to he enrol 1- 
:V s an Ail' oente ol the Calcutta Lilith t'ou.l. 


HIM A Ij KUMAR DATTA, L.U.R., intends to he enrolled 
an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 


DlldP KUMAR MUKHOPADHYAY. M-.H., intends 
nz he enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

HO.-, - It 


M l)\l! NATIl (TIATTOPADIIYAY. R.U . intends to 
,.|o oiled as an Ad'oeate, Calcutta High Com I.. 

(I0G t) 


NOTICE 


[Pursuant to section 485(2)] 

L\ INK MATTFK OK COM PAN IKS ACT 
AND 

l\ TIIK MAT'I KK OK MFCAWO PRIVATK L1M1TFD 
(IN \OLlL\TARY LIQUIDATION) 

liV ,i >i|H>( j a | Resolution parsed on the 22 ml da\ ol 
I uiii.i i \ 1 1n* abovenained Company \m»s put into 

\\> iuIm'I Yoluninn Liquidation and Shn I*. N. MnLlienea 
Mi li Old Post Office Stieet, Calcutta-1, \uis a] >pc/m« cul 
I "litii >j on a fixed remuneration ol 11s. *>IK) only. 

'in ‘J llh Jim miry 1902. 

KAR1NDKA NATH SKN, Du (‘dor. 


[Pursuant to section 516(1)] 

NuTICK is given that ], l\ N. Mukherjca oi 11 Old 
i'<> t oiliiv Street, Calcutta-1, ba\e been appointed Liqui- 
f-P-M at ilit' Kxl raonlimwy Meeting oi tlie Company held 
“ff the 22nd January 1902, and I lieieln give notice to 
’ ,,f ’ f tediiois Unit 1 have fixed the 28th day ol February 
1 A-, un or beloi e which date then debts and /01 t hums 
• i!(J to Ik' pioved, otherwise they will he excluded Irom the 
of distributions made. 

Vl "' 21 th .January 190 2. 

Foi and on helinli ol 


Meeawo Private Limited, 
(In Voluntary Lujuidatmn), 
P. N. M UK II KIM FA, 
Liquidator. 


NOTICE 

NO TICK is hereby given under the piovisions of section 
J - « l thi* Indian P.irnu rslup Ad, 1902, that I rutnp horn 
K uliU ‘-‘lid 1 9 (Sam u at 3 ear 2018) trom the pai Liiei slop 
subsisting between — 

0) Mahaleliand Dugar, 

<2 ) Subh Karan Dugar, 

0») 1 0L1 Ram Dugar, 

(I) liukum Cliand Dugar, and 

Ram Lai Dugar, 

‘ mixing hiisme ,s m partnership at 7/1 Palm l.al Lane, 
dil. nlla ( i lead Office). undci the name and stxle ot 
M.ilid. h.ind Pam Lai ami at Vlipunluai (disti.d Jalpai- 
gun), umlm tin mum* and s t \ 1 « * ol Jethnml M aim 1 . hand. 

I- shall not eonlmue to be personally liable to thud 
parties tor an\ a» 1 done b\ tin* icmammg part mis which 
would h:ne been an ad ol the firm d done holme m\ 
retirement. 

Dated tin.-, 2 ‘)th day ot .lanuary 1002. 

liUKUM ( HAND DIHLVP 


(00— h 


IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 1956 
AND 

»N THE MATTER OF SHREE BISWANATH SWADESHI 
FLOUR MILLS PR. LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION) 

Creditors’ Voluntary Winding up 

M)T!CF TO SI I A K FIJOLDFPS AND CREDITORS 

NOTICE is lieiehv given that pursuant to section odd 
ot Companies Ad, I9o0, a. Final (General Alocting ol the 
* hai oholdors and a« meeting ol t.)i(‘ ereditois ot the above- 
named Company will he held at the office' of tin* under- 
signed at I .Vi Cluttaranian Avenue, Calcutta, on Thursday, 
the 22 nd lelnmuy 1002 at I p.m. and * 1 - 111 ) p.m., respee- 
D'elx, toi the purpose ot having an account hud belorc the 
meeting sinewing liow llie winding up oi the Company has 
been conducted and the propel ty ol the Coinpain has" been 
disputed ot, and lor the puipose ol hearing any esplana- 
lioii'. (hat ma\ he given by the Liquidai 01 , and al,-o lm tin* 
puipoM* ol < onsuh'i mg a*nd il thought lit, ol passing, with 
01 uillio’iit modi tica t ion tin* iollouiug resolution wlinh will 
he pioposed as a Special Resolution, nanielx 

I ha I I In' hooks, accounts and document s of the Cniii- 
pan\ and oi the liUjiiidat 01 Iheieoj he retained 1 1 \ 
tin* Liquidatoi with a direction that they me t ( , h< 
des 1 1 o\ cm i l>\ him a*t Lin' expiration o'l tlnec x cm s 
Irom the dap* ol the dissolution ol the ( ompaiix ” 


D. K S11ROKK, F.C.A., Lmiudalm 

5 1 t 


Dated the Kith .January 11102 


(90-1) 


CHANGE OF SURNAME 

SI 111 IL 11 Keshwar Ram ol 0 / 2 C lhswu Nath Molilal 
Lam*. Calcut t a-12 shall hetieelorward he known as Raj 
Kethwai Singli on the strengtli ol an uffidax " i\mn 
I *i*l ei e the Piesjdciiey Magistrate, Calcutta. 

Dated the 8th .lanuary 1962. 


(98—1) 


(49-1) 


f)A 


THK CAGCITTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 1, 1962 


[Part 


IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 1956 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF THE INSTITUTE OF COMPANY 
SECRETARIES (IN LIQUIDATION) 

Name of the Company: The Institute of Company Secre- 
taries (In Liquidation) 

NOTICE < (LIVENING FINAL MEETING 

NO'IH E is hereby given m pursuance of section . r >09 
i hat a gcucial meeting ol the members of the ubovcnarfiied 
Company v\ill Im* I i < * I f J at 1 Deodar Street, Caleutla-19, on 
the 20ih dav oi Fehruaiv 1902, at 2 o’clock m the after- 
noon and a meeting ol the creditors \ull he held at 4 Deodar 
St i eel. ( alciit l a-1 !), oil the 2Uth day of Fe hr miry 1902 at 
;J o’clock in the afternoon lor the purpose of having an 
account laid holme them shutting the manner in which the 
winding up has boon conducted and Lhe property of the 
company deposed ol and of hearing any explanation that 
mat lie guru lit tin* Liquidator and also of determining 
by a special resolution hv the creditors, the manner in 
which the hooks, accounts and di/rurnents ol the eonipany 
and of the Lnpiulaloi shall be disposed of. 

Dated this Kith day ol January 1902. 

S. RAHA, Liquidator. 

(96 — 1) 


STOLEN 

THE Government Rimnissory Note No. CA 027890 of the 
9 per cent, loan ol 1970-79 tor Its. 500 (Rupees live 
liundred only ) originally s la ruling in lhe name of Reserve 
Rank < ji India and last, endorsed to Sm. Rhotahati Paul, 
the proprietress, hy whom it. was inner endorsed to any 
other person, Inning been stolen, notice is hereby givc»n 
llial payment oi the aho\o not** and the interest thereupon 
have been stopped at the public Dehl Office, Reserve Rank 
o| India, Calcutta, ami the applicat ion is about to he made 
ior the issue of duplicate in favour of the proprieties^ 
The public ne caul min'd against purchasing or otherwise 
dealing with the ahm ('mentioned security. 

Signature ol the Advertiser- Rholabali Paul. 

Residence — Jl-A Dehi Kill ally Rond, Calcut4n-U. 


IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT, i 9S( 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF METAL STONE COMPANY 
PRIVATE LIMITED (IN VOLUNTARY 
LIQUIDATION) 

Notice convening the Final Meeting 

NOTICE is hereby given in pursuance of section 4; 
that a General Meeting of the members ol the ahnvrnaiii 
Company will he held at P-21/ 22 Radliabazw St r ,. 
Calcutta-1, on the 7th March 19(52, at 9 p.m.. i 0r , 

purpu.i oi having an account laid Indore them, s|i,, W] 
the manner in which the winding-up has been con.l, 1( ,. 
and the property ol the Company disposed of ,md 
hearing an\ explanation that may he given hy the I ( , ( , 
dator and for the pmpos 1 * of passing the lollowmg i ( . M| 
lion, with or withu.:t modification, as Special Rcsohmi, 

“Resolved that the hooks, accounts and documents 
the Company and of the Liquidator, he and ate ] 1)1( 
hy givi'n into the custody of Mcs rs. Jain A- (, 
(’bartered Ac couiitanls of P-21 '22 Radii, ilia* 
Street, (alcutta-l, for retention in aecordai'ce m 
section 550 of the Companies Act, 195(3.” 

K. K. JAIN, Liquid, it# 
(97-: 


LOST 

THE Government Promissory Notes Nos. CA195'l5f‘ -u 
C\ 195400 of the J per cent, loan of 1910 for R's 1 »£ 

originally standing in the name ol Sm. Raima Rul.i 1)^ 
lhe proprieties*, by whom they were ne\er ending | 
am oilier person, hawing been los| , notue is h«M < l»x 
that paMiient of the above notes and the in ten-si gir, 
upon have been stopped at the Ruhhe I>('hi OfTice. lh^n 
hank of India, Calcutta, and that application is abmi t< 
he made lor the issue of duplicates in lavom ol tin 
proprietress. The* public an* cautioned against punli.Ni;| 
or otherwise dealing wifh the ahm ementioned sccuuihs j 

Signature* of the Advertiser *UfJ| dic'd ?|71 I 1 

Residence C/o Sliri Apt Kumai Raul, RaThak L.iuc I’l 
Chmsura, district Hooghly (West RoiipaL 

(4: 


(72—9/ 



Registered No. C207 


No. 6 of 1962 



(Ealnttta 








20 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 8, 1962 


Period. 


All*India wholesale 

Cost of living index— Base : November, i960. prioe Index*. 


Expenditure level (in Be.) 

1—100 J 01—200 

— ^ , , — > ■ ■— > 

All Food. All Food, 

items. items. 


201—360 

t — - A — — t 

All Food, 

items. 


Base, 

1962-53. 


Converted 

with 

November 
I960 u 
base. 


(1) 


(2) (3) (4) 


(6) («) (7) (8) 


<») 


1967 January 

. . 

98 -4 

April 


100*6 

July 

. . 

106*0 

October 

. . 

107*6 


94*6 

97-0 

91 *9 

98 "0 

98 -9 

95 *6 

106-8 

104-1 

108 -0 

107-0 

106-7 

104 *0 


96*2 

90*3 

107 *3 

09 m 

97 -0 

93-6 

106 -6 

98 •( 

102*7 

100*7 

111*9 

103-1 

104*0 

102*3 

108 *9 

109-1 


1968 January . • 105 0 

April •• 106,0 

July • • 1°9 *4 

October 111*3 


1969 January .. 103*6 

April . • 1° 6 * 8 

July .. HO *4 

October .. 114*6 


I960 Jannary .* 110-4 

April •* H°- 6 

July U4-4 

October 114-4 

November • • 112-6 

December •• 112*1 


January 

. . 

109*7 

February 


110 6 

March 


110*9 

April 


112*2 

May 


112*1 

June 


113 7 

Julv 


116 2 

August 


117 9 

Bepterobei 


118*0 

i )ctob#*r 


119*9 

November 


■ 2o J 

Duoernbor 


117 *9 


101 *8 

103*1 

98*1 

103 *1 

104 *4 

100 *2 

107 *6 

107 *9 

104 *9 

114*8 

111*2 

113*3 


97-2 

102*9 

96 *6 

100-9 

106*1 

99 *4 

108-1 

109 *2 

106 *1 

118-0 

113*0 

113*4 


108-1 

108 -8 

106*3 

108*0 

108-9 

106-2 

113*9 

112*8 

111 *6 

113 *6 

113*2 

111 *8 

110 *2 

111 *4 

108*4 

109 *3 

110 *9 

107*4 


106*0 

108-7 

103 *2 

100 i 

109*6 

104 *3 

106 1 

1<)9 *9 

104 *6 

108*2 

111*4 

107*2 

107*8 

111*4 

107*0 

110-1 

112*7 

109 1 

114*1 

116*1 

113 2 

116*8 

116 6 

116 7 

116 4 

116 6 

116 1 

119*7 

118*2 

118*2 

12 > *4 

1 18 i 

1 18-1 

114*0 

lib-;; 

112*0 


lot -8 

96*4 

106 -O 

98 4 

103-2 

9/ *9 

107 *4 

99 -I 

108-7 

102 *6 

114 *7 

106 4 

109-8 

108*6 

116*2 

107 M 


102*7 

94*6 

112*3 

104 

104*6 

98 *2 

111*9 

103 

108*1 

104 *0 

116*8 

108 

111 *6 

111*0 

119*3 

lie 


107 *6 

103 -2 

118-8 

no 

107 *9 

103 *3 

120-6 

m 

111 *6 

109 *6 

124-7 

115 

112 *2 

110 *4 

126-3 

117 

110 *7 

107 -2 

128-0 

118 

110-1 

107 *1 

124-8 

lib 


108 *4 

102*3 

126*6 

116 

109 *0 

108 3 

126-7 

117 

109 *6 

103 9 

127 6 

m 

111-0 

106*6 

126*8 

116 

111 0 

100*6 

126*:; 

i!6 

112-1 

108*4 

126*9 

116* 

114*2 

112 2 

12v7 

111' 

116 6 

111 .* 

127*1 

lb 

11 »*4 

Il l* 8 

121*6 

li-i 

116*9 

110*7 

124*1 

11* 

116*9 

I 14. *6 

121 *2 

1 lb 

111*1 

111*1 




Week ending. 


6 1 *o:* 

no*:; 

111*6 

113 *7 

109*6 

112 ’ 

108 3 

13. 1-02 

111*6 

110*6 

113*0 

108*4 

112*3 

107*3 

*20-1 02 

lit-:; 

110-2 

112*8 

108-2 

112*1 

107* 1 

27-1-4*2 

113*8 

109- 2 

112*3 

107*3 

111*7 

100-3 

3-2*02 

113*8 

109*1 

112*3 

107 * 1 

111*7 

100*1 


•Revised series (Base: 1 962-63) and the eoirespoociiu« converted series. 


Printed and published by tbe Superintendent. Government Printing, Went Benga 
at the West Bengal Government Press, Alipore. 



mistered No. C20 7 



(Mnttta 





(fferitr 


iIAGHA 19 J THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1962 [ SAKA 1883 


PART II— Advertisements, Notices 

■rocedura rsgarding sanding Manuscripts for publication of Advertisements, Notices, ate., in t- a 

“Calcutta Gazette” (Part II). 

1 . Manuscripts should be property edited and complete in itself. 

2. Manuscripts should always be typewritten on one side ot the paper. The name of signatory should be typewritten 
slow the signature. 

3. Manuscripts intended ter advertisement in the next issue of “Calcutta Gazette" shall be received by Publication 8 ales 
ifflee et New Secretariat Buildings, 1 Hastings Street, Calcutta, up to 3-30 p. m. on Friday and at Head Office at Alipore up to 
1 a. m. on Saturday. 

4 . All costs shall be paid in advance and deposited along with the manuscripts. 

5. Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING (PUBLICATION 
1RAN0H), WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS, ALIPORE. 

The press shall not be held responsible tor delay in publication of any advertisement due to the aon-aooorvanco at the 
utructioni detailed above. 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 


Advertisement No. 5 


\ppjjl ’ \TIONS till 1 united toi undermentioned posts 
i i >11 1 1 1 ul i.i ii uti/.ein .mil p< rsnns <>l Indian origin migrated 
i»m Paki-tan with nitenunn <>t permanently settling in 
iiili i mi h i ee t s el Nepal. Sikkim or State of Pondiehei r> , 
nd p.'i'son- demit dt‘d in Goa. Daman and Dm. Age limits 
(taxable for Government servants oxeept whore otherwise 
pecified. I pper age limits relaxable by d years 
in 'scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes 
ini In Kites .No relaxation lot ntlieis, sm c in excep- 
I<»n;iI ( in iiiii^timces. and will ill no ease be relaxed beyond 

h i <*» • wats Qualifications relaxable at Commission’s 

Itscret ion in case of candidates otherwise well qualified 
■••diuilai’s and appliea'ion lotnis obtainable from Keerc- 
I' 1 v l moil Public Ser\ it e (oiimiisMim Post Box No. IK<> 

•* u iMbi Request toi torms must speedy name ot post 
I'*' ^ in n i Id be accompanied by sell -addressed iinstaniped 
J'doiM- i < 1 1 each post at IciM ol size 0*x4" indicating 
r'*‘on name ot posts lor which hums are required. 

I,| JX dni< toi i eempt ol application wit Ii tieasiiry receipt 
«* I tat i.i n Postal Older lot Ks 7 dd nP. ( I .H7 nl\ 




Hi 


l|, ‘dul<‘d Castes and Scheduled Tubes) ihe dth Match 
' l‘ , th March 1902 tor applu ants trom abroad), 
(d'iinde a ppheatien with separate lev icquircd lor each 
l amli-datex abroad may apply on plain paper il 

( | II . ,K •*'<' mit available and deposit lee with local Indian 
msv. \ , j) requiied candidates must appear for personal 
ITWCU 


candidate. A §0 : - 4f> yea is and below. Quoitfteatioftt — 
Essential: u) Cert iheate ot Competency as Master (T'or- 
eien Going vessels) issued by tin* Gox eminent ol India 
of any approved authority. (n) About one years’ 
experience as hirst Mate on toreign ^oi ships. 

2. Two Dredger Second Engineers, Kandia Port, Mlnte- 
iry of Transport and Communications. Posts temporary 
but likely to continue and be retained on permanent basis. 
One post reserved for Scheduled Cast es /Tribes candidate; 
il no such suitable eamiul.de a\ailah|c. hotb the posts will 
b<‘ t mated as unreserved Pay - ICs. ddO — 10- -050 — *50/2 
-1,0.>0 (Scale ot pay is subject to lexisjon m the light 
°l ** ilN ( ’ommissmu’s i eeommendal ions ) . Ilighei initial 
pay to s|**eially qualified and exjiei iem-ed candulates. 
Af;e.- id years and below. Qualifications: — Essential: 

(l) Hirst Class Steam M O.T Certificate. (u) About two 
years* expei icnee as Second Kiigincor on ships. 

d Assistant Botanist (Millets), Department of A*ri- 
culture, Himachal Pradesh Administration. Post* tem 

porarx, but likelv to continue. ( H hei things being equal, 
Seluduled ( ’astes / I ribes candidates prclcried Payj_~ 
Hs. 27.(1 2d do0/2d 7 Ad. Higher initial pay to .s peel all v 
qualified and exjMTicneed candidate Age: -Ad years and 
below. Qualifications: Essential -< i ) Master’s deg i ee in 
I lot any oi Arginilt lire with uoikiug knowledge oF Plant, 
Bie'dmg and Genet u s. Or Assoeiateship ol the Indian 
Agricultural Research Institute in Plant Breeding and 
Genetics, (n) About three years’ experience in Plant 
III ceding and Genetics dm Woiking knowledge of Hindi. 


ran ° ne Dred 8er Chief Officer, Kandia Port, Ministry of 

ra nspcrt and Communications. Post temporary but likely 

"I. 1 •‘t‘ , nu‘d on permauent basis eventually. Pay: — 
t ) )> ^ ~h) Odd -2)0/2 1,050. (Seale liable to revision 

I?’ ol Second Pav Commission’s leeommenclations) . 
' J ivl 1,111 ,;t I t" specially qualified and experienced 


4 Four Assistant Engineers, Office af Di root or of 
Reclamation, Dandakaranya Project, Ministry of Rofcatoi- 

litatiOn. Posts tempoiarv. but likely to continue. Uthei 
! hiie/s being equal, preference wdl be given to Scheduled 
Castes candidates. Pay: Its. Add 2d dot) -AtC d.M KB 
— Id WOO— K.B. A0 — KAO- . td -S1UU. plus pi eject allowance 


GO 


THE CALCUTTA (JAZKTTE, FEBRUARY 8, \%2 


[Pm\T ); 


of 20 per rent, oi pay, subp*' t to a maximum oi Rh. 125 
per month. Higher initial pa\ to specially qualified and 
experienced candidates. Age:- 3-> y ears and below. Qualr 
floationt; — Essential — (i) Degree m Mechanical, Auto- 
mobile or Agricultural Kiigineoniig oi a icrognised Univer- 
sity. (ii) About three years' pi actu al field experience in 
maintenance, repairs and operations oi heavy crawler 
tractor, light tractors lor agiieultutul purposes, earth 
moving machinery oi diUeicnt types and diesel ami petiol 
driven transpoit vehicles, (in) Knowledge ol maintenance 
and operation oi mobile field woikhop units. 

5. One interpreter-cum-Transiator in Tibetan, Ministry 
Of External Affairs. J\»s1 temporary blit likely to continue. 
Other things being equal. preteidice w dl be gi\en to Sche- 
duled Oastes/Ti dies candidate. Pay:- IN 32«> 15 L» 

K.B. 20 575. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 

experienced candidate. Age: -35 veins ami below. Quali- 
fications: Essential — (l) Milt nriihit ion ol a iccoguiscd 
University, or equivalent (in Kniwlnl-.e o| Hindi, 
Engbsli and Tibetan. 

(>. Assistant Research Officer (Co-ordination), Indian 
Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar. Post tempo) an. 
but likely to continue. Post icsrued loi Scheduled 
Castes / Tribes candidate, r such suitable candidate avail- 
able, otherwise mated as mucM-.ved Pay: Rs T>0 25 

- -500 30—500- -K. Ii.— 30 -K)0 K. B. .’10-830 15 000 

Higher initial ]>ay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate. Ag®:— 35 yea is and below' . Qualifications: 
Essential — (i) Masters decree in Uhermslrv m llio 
Uheinistry or degree in Agnciiltu.e, or dcgice/dqiloma m 
Veterinary Science ol recognised university /instil ul ion. 
(ii) About 1 111 ee \curs’ practical training /reseat t li evpcii- 
ence in Animal Nutrition in a well organised laboi atory. 

7. (a) One Second Engineer on Dredger, and (b) One 
Marine Engineer, Vishakhapatnam Port, Ministry of 
Transport and Communications. Posts tempormy hut likch 
Lo become permanent. Post*- tcxcixed Ini Si hedulcit 
Unites /Tribes candidates if such suitable candidates aie 
available ntheiwi.se posts 1 rented unreserved Pay: 
Rs. 550 — 40 050- -50/2- 1,050. llighei initial pay to 
specially cj na I i licul and expei mimed candidates Age: - 
lie low 35 veins. Qualifications: Essential ~G) Kir.d (lass 
B.O.T. or M.O.T. Engineer’s (’ei 1 ifieale (n) Must have 
sailed as Second Engineer ol an oi can going steamship 

8. Two Research Assistants (Hindi) (General), Central 
Hindi Directorate, Ministry of Education. Posts tem- 
porary but likely to continue. Posts leserved ini 'sche- 
duled Castes /Tribes candidates ii sm Ii Mutable candidates 
available, otherwise treated as umeseived. Pay: IN. 325 
— 15 — 175- — K.B. -20—575. llighei initial pay to specially 
qualifi«*d and experienced candidates. Age: Pteieiulih 
below 35 years, loi all liieludnig Government sen inis. 
Qualifications: Essential — (i) Master’s or eqim a lent 
Honours Degree, m Hindi with sound knowledge ol 
English. Or Master’s Degree in Sansknt with Hindi as 
electixo subject at the degree stage and sound knowledge 
of English, (u) Adequate mteie.-t m woid studies. 

0. Assistant Director (Physical) (Metallurgy), Govern- 
ment Test House, Calcutta, Ministry of Works, Housing 
and Supply. Post permanent hut appointment to he made 
on n temporary basis in lien vacancy. Pay: IN. 4* Hi l()(i 
— 450-30 000—35 070— K.B. 35 -050 (Reused* Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and expei icnced cand'datc 
Age: Not below 30 years and not aho\e 10 veais Quali- 
fication*: Essential — (i) Degree m eqm\ aleul diploma ill 
Metallurgy ol recocnised university / nn t it ute (in About 
five .years’ experience in testing, inspeet mn oi manulailuie 
of steel and olhei metallic engiTi(*enng mat dials and 
acquauitanee with details ol metnilographieal work and 
technique. 

10 Business Manager on the Research (Non-Govern- 
ment) side of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. 

Post permanent. Other tilings being equal. Scheduled 
Castes /Tribes candidate will be pielened. Pay: -IN. 700 
—40 — 1,100 — 50/ 2- 1,150. Higher initial pay to speenllx 
qualified and experienced candidate. Age:— 15 years and 
below. Qualifications: Essential (i) Degree of a recog- 
nised University, (ii) About five xe.irs’ experience m 
responsible managerial position preferably in n publishing 
house of standing or a corresponding organisation under 
Government, (iii) Should be thoroughly conversant with 


uig jinxing ndcs and distribution of seiontifie litei atu T 
.aid tac hn leal publications, and latest methods oi a ,]^ r 
tiding anti publicity. 

11. One Assistant Chief Adviser of Factories (Ph yS|0 

logy), Central Labour Institute, Bombay, Ministry 0 
Labour and Employment. Post temporary but hkeb 
continue. Pay: - Rs. 7(KI- 40 -1 ,l(K)--50/2— 1,250. u/,,^ 

initial pay to specially qualified and experienced cainJi,] ltU 
Age: - Not more than 40 years. Qualifications: Essen 
tfial- - ( i ) Master’s or equivalent Honours Degree in |‘j lv 
logy ot a recognised Univeisity. (ii) About lixe y, Mj> 
expei lenee in the held ol industrial physiology ol \q n 
about tin e*’ yeais must be* in a responsible position in Uu , 
institute ol repute or Government Department dealing W| ,j 
siimbii problems 

12. Assistant Director (Exhibitions), Ministry of Con, 
merce and Industry. Post permanent. Post reserved tu 
Scheduled Castes /Ti dies eandidute. il such suitable eamj,' 
dale available, other wist* treated as umeserxed. Pay- 
Its. 100 -400 450- -30- 030- -35-070 -E. B. 35 m' i( 
llighei initial pay to specially qualified, and expciim,^ 
candidate Age: Not below* 25 and not above 45 years 
Qualifications: Essential — (i) Degree of a re(*og 11Kw 
university, (ii) About three years’ management experi^i 
in a resjMmsible capacity in a commercial firm or ( Jom i 
inent depui tinent connected with trade /coinineit t» y pu*,; . 
ei tv /pub lie relations. 

13. One Commandant, Central Emergency Rcim 
Training Institute, Nagpur, Ministry of Home Affairs. 

Post temporary but likely In continue. Pay: — Rs I Jin,.. 
50 -1,300- 00 — 1.000. Higher initial pay to specially <|n :i | 
fied and e «,pi noticed candidate. Age : —45 years and bduv, 
Qualifications: Essential (i) Degree of a recognised | P . 
wisity (u) About two years’ expei icnce in si supcm .... 
capacity in si ('nil Defence Organisation, Or About ' . 
years’ experience ol i mining relief camps m rcspuiiH^ 
position mi hiding about two x ears’ adrmmsi u?\ 

< v pci icnce 

It. Five Assistant Ore Dressing Officers in the Indian 
Bureau of Mines, Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel. 

Po3s temporary but likely to become permanent %* 
| lost reserved lor Scheduled Castes candidate it u< h 
Mill ihlc candidate is available otherwise all post*. miYf! 
imicsci xcil Pay:— IN. i(H) UK) 150- -30- Olid T. Cj 
E If 35 -050. Higher initial pay to specially (| uatii'Hfj. 
and exjieiieneed candidates Age: -Below ‘15 years Quallfr 
cations: Essential -Degiee m (’hemical Engineering e 
Alcialhiigv oi Master’s or equivalent Honours d.'gm « 
Chemistix oi Physics or Geology ol iccogiiised Univci'. 
institute (or) diploma ol the Indian School o| \1m«" u 
Applied Geology. 

15 Assistant Works Manager (on probation) m tin 
trade of Chemist [now re-designated Assistant Manawr 
(on probation) in the trade of Chemist] for the Ordnanct 
Factories Organisation, Ministry of Defence. Posi pm* 
nciit . ami teserved loi Sehed tiled (’astes candidati d 3 
smlahlc candidate axadahle, olh(*iwisc tnnh'ti « 
lmicseixed. Pay: IN. U)(J -41)0— 450— 3(1 (>00—3) -U 1 - 
K.B. — 35 1)50. 1 1 iglu»i initml pay to specially q nab’ • 

and expei ieiiccd candidate. Age Not loss than i. 1 * 1 i”' 
.mi iiKne than 25 years lor all including GovcnitK^ 
icivanls. (3l) yeais tor candidates holding permanent " ' 
m Ox h .uuc Kai-toiies). Qualifications: Essential- h « '•' 
ol a recognised UimeiMiv m Cliomunl EnginceriM' 

I cchllolo*»\ ; Or ('oi pm ale Membership ot a leuigioj 
I ic 1 1 1 ul u ol ( ‘hcmical taigiiKM'i.s, Or MasLei's degm 
(‘hcimsliy <»! a i c« ni*.<*d Univeisity or equixalciii ® 
A^sociatc'dnp ot tin* Roxnl Institute ol 1 1 !n , iin s ‘ ’ 
Knglaiid. 

Pi One Government Epigraphist for India, ArchaeefJ 
gicai Survey of India, Ministry of Scientific Research ** 
Cultural Affairs. Post penmmcnl and reserved im N .1 
doled ( list ex / Ti ibes candidatt* ; il no such suitable 1 1,11 
date a*, adatilc, will lie Heated as unicscixcd 
IN. 7im til 1.100 50/2—1,250 plus a sjnci.il 
Rs. 100 pei month. Higher initial pay to spi" !,1, | 

qualified and c\pt*ncnccd candidate. Age: -4.5 yeaF" ,Ui ' 
below Qualifications: Essential — h) Master’s <*r 
lent Honours Degree in Sanskrit or Pali, or the lb 
or Tamil oi Kannada oi Tebmu of a iccognis(*d P T,n ‘ r ^ 
with Bachelor’s Degree m Ancient Indian H i^tni y 



TT1E CALCUTTA OAZKTTK, FEBRUARY 8, 1962 


61 


II] 


duster's or equivalent Honour# Degree in Ancient Indian 
:V torV 0 1 a recognised University with Bachelor’s Degree 
Sanskrit, Pah, the Prakrits, Tamil, Kannada or Telugu. 
mi 'About eight years’ experienee in deciphering and 
jilting inscriptions in ditteront scripts. 


,7 Assistant Works Manager (Chemist) [now re-desig- 
nated as Assistant Manager (Chemist)] for tho Ordnance 
Victories Organisation, Ministry of Defenoe. Post prema- 
mi. pays ,{s - 4(X, “ t(K) ' 4r,() ' ; * () d()0~ 33* -l>70 — E. B. 

n X Higher initial pay to s]jccu»lly qualified ami 

\Vnoiiccd candidate. Age:— Between MO am! 40 years tor 
V including (loverninent servants. Qualifications: Essen* 
t ia |- -(U Hcgiee of u recognised university in Chemit <d 
put- nicer i ng or Technology or equivalent. Or < Topoi ate 
Membership ot a recognised Institute ot (’hemical F.ngi- 
' , s - Or Master's degi ec in Chemistry ot a recogneed 

in»\ er^i t \ or equivalent ; Or Assoeiateship ot the Koval 
Institute o! Chernc-tiy, England, (ii) Post-graduate 
1 1 tMiiiig m the production ol Clienncals in a manutact airing 
( ‘ ( j m ., M i7 o! repute, mi) About tom years’ experience in 
< 'hem, cal jiroeessex on largescwlo production including 
rheIllI< :»| i esearch and lahoiatorv work ot which about 
three wars should have been spent in 11 responsible capa- 
t <n\ tor planning ami eon i ml ot chemical production. 


is One Assistant Director (Mechanical Engineering), 
Central Hindi Directorate, Ministry of Education. Post 
UMiipoi at > hut likely to continue. Post reserved for Scho- 
(iuled Cartes candidate; it no such suitable candidate aviul- 
ihh* will be treated as unreserved. Pay:- K\ 700 — 40 — 
,* 1(10 ’ ill. flier milial pay to specially qualified and expen- 
c.md ida t c Age: Preleiabl.v 15 years and below, tor 
,iil including Cm eminent servants. Qualifications: Essen- 
tial (i) At least Second Class Degree in Mechanical Engi- 
ot a recognised Unnersity, oi eqtn valent. 
,iu Know lisjge of Hindi. 


ID One Inspector of Training, Industries Department, 
Himachal Pradesh Administration. Post tempo: m.v but 
),kd\ to continue Post reserved lor Scheduled Castes / 

Tribes candidate; il no such suitable candidate available 
i mil lx* treated as unreserved. Pay:-— Ks. 250 -25 — 750. 
Higher initial pay to -.penally qualified nod experienced 
• .uVdulaie Age: — 40 \ears and below'. QuallfioatlonS: 
Essential (i) Degree m Mechanical Kngineeiing ot a 
ri'Higmsnl unnersit y , with about three years’ experience in 
„ ^npci\is.»i\ e.i pii<‘i t \ in workshop engager! in production 
Or Drilonia in Mechanical Engineering ot a recognised 
In-On ni ion with about -even veals' experience in a super- 
, i'-oi \ «apacil\ m workshops engaged in p.oduclion 

in IV. k lung t*N per lenee m a recognised technical 
i , i'-t it ill ion. 

J i One Assistant Planner, Town Planning Organisation, 

Ministry of Health. Post temporal \ but likelv to con- 
■ mix Pay: Its :r>() -25 - ‘no- M0^-590 -K It M0— 800 

k II - 50 8M0 Ik*) — 000. Hjghei initial pav to specially 
qn.i i i fi« •! and <*\ pci ieiu cd (andidafe. Age: Mo years and 
h< low Cuahfrcations : Essential <i> Degree or Diploma in 
r l o u 1 1 pi ■nniiej ot A ichitect m e of a rc« ognised University/ 
lust it lit n.n (m About two yeais’ experience in a responsible 
)"• ttinii in a planning oi architectural office. (iir) Must 
1» t u 1 1\ on\ ersant with ai ehitectural design ami/or phvs»- 
*■4 ) d:i n 1 1 1 n l' . 


I One Assistant Cost Accounts Officer in the Ministry 

I Finance (Department of Expenditure). Post Lemporaiy, 
u 1 1 1\ < * 1 \ to (ontmue Post reserved tor Scheduled Caste 

• in, li'la 1 1 Applications invited from Scheduled Caste oan- 
lidates only. Pay: IN 5P0-M0- SM(p M.V-900. Higher 

m,| ul pav to ■.] M’cia II \ (piaiified and experienced candidate. 
^ e ’* ns \e.is and below Qualifications: Essential 

II \ « •« n i : • 1 1 : 1 1 1 1 * \ qualification recognised for enrolment in 
iN'-i lor ot .Mciiihci,-, maintained bv the Council ot tic* 

I !, ^t it ti t < i| Chartered Veommt.mis ol India, or flic Final 
^■nmnal nm <»| the Institute ot Cost and Works Accoun- 
Vnts London, or the Indian Institute ol Cost and Works 
mint ants, (’alcntta. (li) About five years* piaetieal 
. \})**i u‘n r j|, (\, s ( Accounting in a (iovei rinieiit or indus- 
P 1,1 °i - anisat mu including three years in a position oi 
esi»i, n ^ sli.Jit x wit Inn I he organisation or in a professional 
'•I'Hnt \ . 


factor, Indian Veterinary Research Institute, 
^Kteswar/lzatnagar, Ministry of Food and Agriculture 
\ i )ar tnient of Agriculture). Post permanent, and 
Jo,- Scheduled Caste, /Tribes « undid ate. if such 
1 '' candidate available; otherwise treated as 


unreseived. Payr Ks. 1 M>00 — 100 — 2,000 Higher initial 

pav to specially qualified anrl expei leticed candidate. AgOi- 
Preferably between 40 and 50 years tor all including 
Uovei nrnent servants. Requirements: A Netermniy Scien- 
tist oi repute wdio possesses Hie scientific attainments and 
administrative experience as indicated generally hv the 
following essential qualifications: Doctorate ill Veterinary 
Science or F.K.C.V.S or M.K (’ V.S. (with u diplomu or 
equivalent thereof in Veterinary Physiology and Patho- 
logy) with considerable e\periem*e of conducting initiating 
ami guiding i esearch, adequate experience ol i mining an 
impnitani scientific educational institution eitlu»r as its 
head or second in command. 

2M. One Chief Quality Control Officer for the Delhi 
Milk Scheme, Ministry of Food and Agriculture. Post 
temporal >, likely to continue indefinitely. Otliei things 
being equal. Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidate pi et erred. 
Pay: -Ks. 1 ,llK) — oO — Higher initial pay to 
suet tally qualified and experienced candidate. AgOi — 45 
years and below. Qualifications: Essential— (i) M.Sc. 
Degiee in Chemistry / KioclieiniK, i y / Bacteriology , or post- 
graduate degree in Dairying. Or Diploma in Dairying along 
with a degree in science ot a recognised University, 
(li) About 7 years’ experieme ol Chemical and bacterio- 
logical analysis of milk and milk products. 


21. One Physician, V. M. Hospital, Agartaia, Tripura 
Administration. Post temporary but likelv to continue 
ami be made permuuent. Other things lx*ing equul, pre- 
leienee will lx* given to Scheduled Castes candidate. Pay* - 
Ks. 400- 100— 450— .‘JO— €KH) — M5 070- E. I> M5 050. 
Higher initial pa> to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate. Age: M5 years and below’. Qualifications: 
Essential— (i) A Medical qualification included in the First 
or Second Schedule or Part 11 ot Third Schedule to the 
Indian Medical Council Act. 1950. ( Persons possessing 

qualifications included in Part II ol Thud Schedule should 
also fulfil the conditions relating to registration specified 
in section ]M(M) oi the Act). fii) Post-gi aduate quali- 
fication in Medicine, e.g. M.K.C.P. or M.l). ( ii» > About 

three veais’ expei leuce ot wanking in medicrd wards ot a 
icputed Hospital. 


25. Eight Instructors in Rural Sociology and Field 
Studios, Orientation and Study Centree, and Soolal 
Education Organisers’ Training Centres, Ministry of Com* 
munity Development and Co-operation. Post temporary 
and likely to continue till Hie end ot Third Five-Year Plan, 
(hie post leserved toi Scheduled Castes candidate and one 
lor Scheduled Tribes candidate, il no such suitable candi- 
dates mailable, all posts treated as unreserved. Pay: — 
Ks, 125- 25 500— M0— 590 K. B.— MO -800-E. B. - :10— 
8M0 MV 000. ( Uo\ eminent servants may be allowed to 

draw pay in then glade pav plus 20 per emit, deputation 
duty allowance) Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
and expel lcnced candidates. Ago: Not less than M0 and 
not mure than 45 years. Qualifications; ESSOnti&l — 
(i> Degree ill Sociology or A nf In opology oi a recognised 
\ imeisity. ( 1 1 > \boiit five years' experience in a re, spoil- 
sibh capacity in the field ol Kmal Sociology. 


ARMY MEDICAL CORPS EXAMINATION, 1062 

THE 1 niori I ublie Serial* Commission will hold an 
exaniin.it ion at Allaliabad. B.mpaloie, Bbopal, H/uiibayq 
(5ileiitta, Cm tack, Delhi, Hyderabad, Madras, Nagpur, 
Patna, Shillong and Tmandiuin commencing on 24th .Julyu 
1:K»2, for selc<*tion lor i>uc<t Permanent Kcgnlar Cornmis- 
sams oi Slant Service Kcgnlar Commissions in Army 
Mcda al Corps. Women as well as Serving Short Service 
Regular Commissioned Officers eligible to compete. Age 

limits: — Candidates must not have attained the age oi M0 
years on Mist December 1002. Age limit relaxnhlc in 
favour o| candidates possessing Post-Draduate Diploma or 
Higher Medical qualification or having previous CominiN- 
.sioinxl Sri var in Arinx Medical (Vrps. Qualifications: A 
• andidate must possess an Indian or Foreign Medical quali- 
fication recognised by the Indian M<*dical Council, and lx* 
registci ed on any State Medical Kegistei. Application 
forms an<l full iiartieulars obtainable from Swietary, Union 
Public Service Commission, Dholpui House, D H.(). P.O., 
New Delhi-ll, by remitting Ko. 1.00 by money ordei or 
on cash payment at the countei A candidate must 


62 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. FEBRUARY 8, 1962 


[Part ft 


clearly wtate on money order coupon MtBiOOl 09fps 

Examination, 1 062” and alto glue Kit nan* and full pootai 

addraas In blook letters. Postal Order* or chequeK or cur- 
rency notes not acceptable in lieu of money orders. Com- 
pleted applications must reach the Union Public Service 
Commission by 2nd April 19(i2 (Kith April 19(i2, tor candi- 
dates residing abroad). 

STENOGRAPHERS' EXAMINATION, 1962 

IN partial modification ol Commission's udveitisernent 
No. 29 published on the 22nd duly UK>1, relating to the 
Stenogi aphei s’ Kxamniat ion. 19(>2, it is hereby notified 
that I be atoresnid Kxa minat ion which was to be held in 
Felu uai \ /Maicli, KH>2, will now commence on 24th A pi 1 1 
11612. Other tilings remain unchanged. 


TRAINING SNIP “DUFFERIN” 

Merchant Navy Officers Pre-Sea Training Course 
Admission August 1962. 

I Hi?) Training Ship “Dufferm” will hold a written 
examination I mm 4th to 7th dune 1SH>2 at Bombay, Cal- 
cutta. Cutt.uk. Delhi, Krnakulam, Lucknow. Madras. 
Nagpur and Patna, subject to sufficient number oi candi- 
dates at each Centre. 

Age limits; Candidates must he within the age> of 15| 
and 18 yeais on 1st duly 19fi2, i.e., horn between 2nd duly 
1944 and 1st January 1947. 

Age limits can in no case be relaxed. 

Minimum Educational Qualifications: Matriculation or 
equivalent. Applications trorn candidates who have 
appeared oi intend appearing at any such examination will 
be accepted sub|ect to pi mi net ion oi proof ol having passed 
before 1st July l%2. 

Selection: Candidates who quality at the written exami- 
nation shall appeal lor interview i n Bombay during the 
third week m August 1902. 

Fees: Fees including hoaidmg, lodging, tuition and 
uniloim approximately Us. 1 ,U5t) on entry, thereafter 
R,v. API) per term. Total ioi two yeuis course, Its. 2JJ00 
approximately. 

Scholarship*: A large number of scholarships ranging 
from Its. 200 to Its. 780 per year are available for cadets 
under training. 

Piospectus containing the mil particulars ol the tours** 
official Application Korin, specimen question papeis, and 
details ol Ices, scholarships, ate., is obtainable on pre- 
payment ol Its 1.50 by crossed Postal Order/ Money Ordei 
from the Captain Superintendent, Training Ship 
"Duffcrin”, off M&zagaon Pier, Bombay-16. 

Address oi the, sender should be written in BLOCK 
LKTTKltS. 

Applications in the prescribed for in will la* accepted up to 
♦5th April 1902 hum unmarried mate candidates. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMI88ION, WE8T BENGAL 

Qanaral instructions to oamNdatot applying In rotponto to 
advertisements issued by tho Commission for roorult- 
ment to posts of "Solootlon", 

(i) Instructions regonttng tubmistlon of appUoatton. - 

Application^ arq to he made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service C,om- 
in i ssion , West Bengal, Anderson tiouee (ground floor). 
Aiiimrc. CaJ< utta-27, personally or on Bending » large eelf- 
addreBBed envelope with stamps sufficient to cover the 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 

copies of fix' prescribed form may apply on any similar 
typed (not handwritten) form shoving exactly the word- 
ing wad spicing of the sample form published in the 
“Calcutta Gazette” of the let September 1956, provided 
the blanks are filled ui» in the candidates' own handwriting. 


(2) Particulars and oortNtaatoa required. —Candi^ 
should furnish evidence of their age } qualification!) 
previous experience together with certificates written n 0 ? 
more than one year prior to the date of their application 
from responsible persons, testifying to their priv*^ 
character. 

T*h« Commission accepts only the age of a candidate u 
i Recorded in the Matriculation or the Secondary School 
Final /Leaving Certiluate. In the case of a lemale candi- 
date whose agt is not recorded m tho Matriculation 0 j 
School Final Certificate, any of the following evident 0 j 
age is accepted by the Commission. — 

1. A certificate from the Headmistress of the scho„j 

ufuch she last attended, showing her exact agu ^ 
recorded in the school register. 

2. An affidavit regarding her agt* sworn by her father 

or mother or some other person in a position to 
know by having been present or heard ol her birth 
At the time of occurrence. 

H. A certificate regarding her age, from a Member of 
the Legislature oi a gazetted officer, who n, U|li 
have luiow'u the candidate and her family, indicat- 
ing dearly tho evidence on the basis of which ho/ 
she satisfied himself /herself on the point. 

id) Fee. Candidates must enclose with their apnlu^ 
tions a fee of Its. .5 in the form of a receipted chalari 
from a Guvei nmeiit Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India 
under the head “XXXVI - Miscellaneous— Receipts of tht 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal’’. Money order*, 
cheques, etc., in lieu of treasury challans are not accepted 
Postul order, howe\er, may be accepted from candidates 
I hey should be < russet I and made payable to “The Son*, 
tiir.v. Public Sen ice Commission, West Bengal” No apph- 
ratum will bo considered unless accompanied with thp 
requisite application fee. 

Candidates abroad may deposit their application teen 
with the High Commissioner of India or the FIm hussy, u 
the ease ma\ be, and obtain receipts lor the same, winch 
will bate to be attached to their applications to be tuik 
rnittad to the < ommiHsion. 1 

Candidates in Government service should make -ui 
bet me depositing foe that their applications will he forward! 
ed by Liicir superior officers. In no case will the 1 «m> ]taid\ 
with the application he refunded. 1 

The Commission may remit fee in < ase of ^emwielvj 
indigent and bona fide displaced person from Pakintun. J 

An indigent displaced person shall , in the first mstuiiw 
pay the apple ution fee prescribed lor a gazetted just ; 
.id\eitiM*d by t he Commission but if ho/she is sd-wtod for .. 
mid appeals ui the interview, the tee [laid by him/her till - 
be letunded afterwards. 

Note* — “(i) A unplaced person claiming age com cnmud - 
must furnish with bis applieotinn sat isf:u toi \ t*\ uhiuv 

that he is botia fide displaced person Irom Pakistan. t n 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a giizcttsl b 
officer oi a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, in h 
original. r 

(u) A member of the Scheduled Ca»ste oi Soilin' 

1 ribc* claiming age concession must furnish with Im uM'li _ 
a ceitibcate in original from a gazetted officer or * _ 
Member of Pailiament or State Legislature belongwu ti. 
tho Scheduled Caste oi Sdiedulod Tribe, specifying tv 
particului *a>ie oi tribe to which he claims to belong 

(m) A displaced person seeking remission of the ai»ph‘* 
t ion tee in list lurnisli besides the evidence requited ,lD “ ef 
\ote ^i) above, a certificate (m original) Irom a Ihfltrd 
U tlicer or a gazetted ollicei oi a Member of Parliament * 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a position w 
pay tjie prescribed fee.” 

(4) Address. -Candidates should give their P rw< jJ 
address ami should communicate at once anV tmbse<|i# D 
change of address 

{.5> Canvassing.— Anv attempt on tho part of candid* 
to tufmt support of their applications through person* 
ittfluopoe or officials of Government will disqualify ' 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation 
HcrHons interested in the candidates or othcrwbe * n0 
to tham will be disregarded. 


UltT 11] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 8, 1962 


63 


ifi) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
r temporary employment under any Government, a local 
’ statutory Hotly (e.g., Datnodar Valley Corporation), in 
ha will i>e rejected unless they are submitted through 
£ appointing authority of their posts or service, 

Candidates serving under Government or a local or 
atnfcorv Body should submit an advance copy in the pres- 
V 0 ,l form. The application fee should in such cases be 
[taclied to the advance copy and not to the original. The 
indenture 0 f RUC h applicants may not however be ccro- 
dorcd if the original applications do not reach the Com- 
| ls sion's office within a fortnight from the dosing date, 
nlcss applications in original or advance copies with 
nplication fees arc received within the closing date, late 
plications may he rejected. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, WeBt Bengal. 

Ipore, the 27th January 1961. 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANA8 


Insolvency Case No. 2 of 1982 

Slu i Ohircndrn Nath Sircar, residing at .5 A Hevsham Hoad, 
police station Bhowampore, Debtor-Applicant. 

To — Shi i Mihir Chandra Snrhadhikan ot 2*5 A Srinath 
Mukherjoe Lane, Paikpara, Calcutta-3, and 6 others, 
Creditors. 

ON the 29th dav ol January 1962 it was ordered that 
tlie matter ot the petition ot t lie applicant ho heard on the 
ot h day ol M a reli 1962 and that the said applicant to 
attend to Ik* examined by tins ( ourt on that (late. 

A. K. SEN, District .fudge, 
Aliporc, the 30th January 1902. 

(116—1) 


— — — - j 

IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
Advertisemont No. 5 24-PARGAN AS 


APPLICATIONS are invited from Indian citizens lor 
jj<' following posts 

(i ,i One Chemist under the Directorate of Medicinal 
Plants, West Bengal. Post lempoiaty. Pay: — Ks. 2U0 — 
1 1 p_>(i -15 450 tE.B. after the 10th and 18th stage, >) 

in month plus usual allowances. 

Qualifications:- \ second class degree m Pliarmaey, Or, 
\ second class Master's degree in Oigame Chemistry, 
tge: Not more ilian 35 years on the 1st February, 1962 

i in One Bio-assay Assistant under the Directorate of 
Medicinal Plants, West Bengal. Post temporary. Pay: — 
C 2116 -in 126- 15 150 (E.B alter the IDtli and 18th 
it > p< i month plus usual allowance's. 

| Qualifications: —Essential — A second class Honours ot a 
ifumd <lass M.ist(‘r’s degree m Physiology Desirable 
C\|ici iciiee in Bio- assay expe»i uncut al woik in a iveogiii-ied 
alien .litn \ Age: Not more than 35 years on tdio 1st 
•tdiru.ii \ 1962. 


Age Concession 


I’lie .crc-limit lor both t he> posts is lel.ixahle hv five' years 
C 8r|ieduled Castes / Ti ihes and up to to years lot* dis- 
fl.iMd pei sons Imm Pakistan 


\ i .uididate who bed ore the 15th August 1947 was 
l one I imprisoned interned ot e*\terne>d on account ol 
i •> .i<‘t i \ i j ies in connection with the (ountry’s struggle' toi 
irli'uciiilem c, not lie'ing cnimcte'd ol an offence indicating, 
ii ( 'Ul tm pit ude», shall lie entitlee! to a concession in re‘stif'(*t 

[ die age limit. The' concession granted will he eipial to 
h* ‘‘x.iel pe»rioi| o| detention, iinprisonine'nt , internment 
i exteimncnt suffered up to a maximum ol ioui years. 


[ ^I’l'h to Seeietnrv with a J’reasurv Chalau ol Hs. 5 
hidti li(*a < ] “XXXVI - \l iscellane'otis — Rexeupts ot Public 
Commission, West Bengal” or a crossed Postal 
prd#»r t>| |{v, r, payable to ‘‘Se*ere‘tai y , Public Service Com- 
j. Mv,lun * VVest Bengal”. Overseas candidates may deposit 
1,1 lr application lees with the High Commission of India 
11 die Indian Embassy, as the case may lie. Particulars 
Ind pic cubed application lorms arc obtainable from the 
!| < ‘ r »l the ( 'onnnission , Anderson House (giound floor), 
j'j Mllr Calcutta-27 personally or on sending a si'll 
‘'leased envelope (size 10"x6*) with postage stamp of 
‘ "I and the name of the post superscribed on the 
uclnpc Those' who intend to take application forms 
| U| ''Ml unit the applientions personally should do so 
* hl'h> a. in. and 3-00 p.m. on lull working days and 
'een 10-1. > a, m. and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 


Closing date -The 26th February 1962. 


A. C. HOY, Secretary, 

Public Service Com mission. West Bengal 
lh « 2*th January 1063. 


Insolvency Case No. 1 of 1962 

Alls Eileen Smith, wife* ol Mi \\\ J. Smith, ol 220 Lower 
Circular Hoad, police-station Bcniupukur, district 
2 t-Parganas, Debtor- Applicant. 

To .Mi Moliaulal Sharma ot 35 Railway Market. Khu rag- 
put, district Midna|)ore and 14 othcis, Creditors. 

ON the 22nd day ot January 1962 it was ordered that 
the' matte'? ol the* petition ol the applicant he* heard on 
the 26th day ol February 1962 and that the said applicant 
to attend to he* examined hv this Court on that date. 

A. K. SEN, District Judge. 
Alipoie. the 2.5th January 1962. 

< i ir — n 


IN THE 3RD COURT OF THE ADDITIONAL DISTRICT 
JUDGE AT ALIPUR 

Insolvency Case No. 1 of 1961 

Matimalha Nath Roy, Petitioner 

J AKE notice* that the* ahove»name*d insolvent lias applied 
in this emit t tor his discharge* and that I6t.li day ot Kuh- 
nian 1962 at 10 a. in has be'cn fixed tm hearing ot the 
application 

A. K DE, 

3rd Additional District Judge. 

(111-1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, HOWRAH 

Insolvency Case No. 6 of 1962 

JAKE notice that an application has been tiled by 
Bisbw anal h Khaitan, son ot Kasi Piosad Agsuwala. 
residing at 18 Mnlhck Street, Calcutta, foi adjudging 
Denzil Browne, Draftsman, S.A.E (1 )Ltd., 16 St. George 
Terrace, Hastings. Calcutta, at present residing at Loco 
quarters. B16 Santragachi. district Howrah, an insolvent. 
The application has he*en admitted and fixed on 24th 
February 1962 loi hearing. 

(ILLEGIBLE |, 

District Judge. 

(118—1) 



64 


THE CALCUTTA fiAZKT'i E, FEBRUARY 8, 1962 


ir/VRT i 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, HOWRAH 

Insolvency Case No. 7 of 1962 

TAKE not icv t h:» t ;m application has been filed h\ 
Bishwanat h Khnitan son of Kashi Pmsad Agarwala, of IH 
Mu I lick SI loot. ( alcutta, lor adjudging (1) Patrick 
Thomas Tollv doik Traffic Department, ( Vmimissioners 
tor the Pori ol ( \»lf id ta, and (2) J. W. Thomas, Wagon 
(Phaser K Rmluav, Buidwan, both residing at Railway 
quarter Banning, n In, P.O Salkia. district Howrah. as 
iiisob ant s, Die apple. *t ion has heen admitted and fixed 
on 211 h Felniiaiv RM»2 lor hearing. 

ULLEGIBLEj, 

I list i let Judge. 

(lit) - I ) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, HOWRAH 

Insolvency Case No. 8 of 1962 

TAKE notice thal an application has been bled b\ 
Bishwanat h Khaitan son nl Kashi Prasad Agarwala, ol 
IK Mu Hick Street Calcutta, loi adjudging F. X. Da\nl 
alias Francis l)a\id, Laboui Supervisor, Commissioncis lor 
tho Port, ot Calcutta . at present residing at Railway 
quarters, Sant i agnehi, district Howrah, an insolvent r l he 
application has been admitted and fixed on 24th Fehiuniv 
KXi2 for hearing. 

|ILLEGIBLE|, 

District J udgo. 

(120- l) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, HOWRAH 

Insolvency Case No. 9 of 1962 

TAKE notice that an application lias been filed by Kashi 
Prasad Agarwala, son o| late Ishwar Das Khaitan, ol 'J 
Jug Mohon Mullick Lane. Calcutta, lor adjudging E A 
Domingo, Tele])honc Operator, Calcutta Ti a in ways Com- 
pany Ltd., Calcutta, a, I present residing at H/l Jeliap.ira 
Third Rye Lane, Howrah, an insolvent The uppJical ion 
has heen admitted ami fixed on 24th February ltM>2 loi 
hearing. 

1 1 LLEGIBLEl, 

District Judge. 

(121 I) 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUBORDINATE JUDGE AT 
ASANSOL 

f Insolvency Case No. 1 of 1962 

Creditor -Pot.it ioiiei • Madanlal Agarwalla. son o| late 
Mnngtoo Ram Agarwalla, Asansol Town, district 

Rurdwati. 

IT is hereby not died that the ahovenamed Creditor 
Petit. iouei has applied to adjudge one A \\\ Me Donaidi 
(residing at Id Loeo Quarters, Eastern Railway, Asansol), 
nn insolvent The Court has registers! that appheation 
and has fixed 27tli Eebrauix Id(i2 for the hearing thereoi. 

N. C. DFTTA, 

Subordinate Judge. (Insolvency Jinisdiction). 

( 112 — 1 ) 


COURT OF MUN8IF 8EC0ND, 8AMA8TIPUR 

Mortgage 8ult No. 95 of 1961 

Rumehandra Choudhury, Plaintiff 
versus 

Rameshwar Singh and others, Delendants. 

'l*o ( I ) Gopaljee Singh, son ot R. Rameshwar Sir^ 
(2) Chakardhar Singh, minor son of Gopaljee Si U u 
village Bochaba, pergana Balagaohh, polico-statn 
Mohiuddm Nagar, district Darbhanga. 

PI IE plaintiff has filed a suit against you for realist i, 
ni tho mortgage amount Rs. HOO principal and Rs. 7 
interest. In spite of summons you have not uppc.u,. 
You aie hereby notified to appear in person or through 
Pleader on or before Kith February UM52 the date fixed 
the suit, tailing, the suit will be beard ex parte. 

Given under nn hand and the seal of this court, tl 
2did da> ol Januaiy KH>2. 

RAMESH PATHAK Munsil 

(Uo - 


IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL SUBORDINATE 
JUDGE, RANCHI 

Execution Case No. 20 of 1961 

Sheo Prasad Rajgana and otheis — Dccroo-holdci s 
versus 

Mr. A. 1). Maegiegor and otfiers- Judgment -debt ui* 

T< 1 Aslam ‘Manesseh. a Steward and Club Memhu 
R.C. T.C. Head Office at No 11, Russell Street, Calur 

WHEREAS Shen Piasad Raigaria and others haw ji 
an appliealion in llos Court tor execution ol tho dene* 
Title Suit \o It i/o ol 1 ( ) 18-7)2. This is to give \oii no 
that >011 an* to appeal beloio this Court on tin* 27tli <1 
ol Februaiv KH>2 and show cause win execution should 1 
issue 

Gi\oit under my hand and the seal ot t lu ^ Court llu ‘ 
2'Hh day of January JfX52. 

J. P. SINGH. 

Special Subordinate Judge 

<12b 


IN THE COURT OF THE MUNSIF, KATIHAR, 
DISTRICT PURNEA (BIHAR). 

Summon for settlement of issues 

T.S. No. IIS 

Jodtian Jadav, son of Jliari Jadav, d(*eeased resident 
village Sukhasantola, Tigaria, jroliee-st at 1011 15m 

<listriet Puinea, Plaintiff 

\ ersus 

1 Shriiuati Paehia Devi. wile ol Nanku Jadav ol Shim 
hadtola, Bnlw anloli, polo e-stat 1011 Raigunj. 

West Dinajpui. Defendant. 

WHEREAS the jilainfiff has tiled the above suit a pa 
vou and others for certain reliels, you are herein Ll 
moned to appeal in mv court on 27th February 
Iff- JO a.m. to take necessary stops, if any, failing 
1 In* suit will be heard in your absence. 

Given undei my band and the seal of this court I 
day, the 21th day o| Januarv KXi‘2. 

RADHABALLAV SINGH, Afu-i 
(tj;- 


j'Airr IT ] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 8, 1962 


65 


,11 the court of the subordinate judge at 

,ri ASANSOL 

Insolvency Case No. 2 of 1962 

fh'htoi-prtit loner: Budlian Mahato. soil ot late Agha 
Alnhaia, 1>\ caste Hindu. b\ occupation service. 
Holding at Rarntola, Knit i. police-station Knlti. 
It urdu an. 

IT i.s hereby notified that tfie aboveiiarued pi til inner has 
,n|)li(‘d to be adjudged an msulvint. The court has rcgis- 
‘* (V|(M | | im . application fixing 27th February 1992 ior hearing 
tln'i cn I . 

X. C. DATTA, 

Subordinate .liaise ( liisolv enc\ .1 urisdieiion) . 

(113— I) 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUBORDINATE JUDGE AT 
ASANSOL 

Insolvency Case No. 3 of 1962 

pclitor-pei itionci . Ram Xarcsh Singh, son ol Chedi Singh. 
T. No 3929 Blast Furnace Department, Burupur 
VVoi loMdeiit ol Din iijMlanga , Burnpur, police- 
station llirapur, district Bmdwaii. 

IT hereby notified that the uhovenunied petitioner iias 
jijiphed to be adjudged an insolvent. T'hc» court lias regis- 
ii-icd tin* t application fixing l?7t li February 1902 ioi 
lit.milg tbeieoJ. 

N. C. DA r lTA, 

Suboi dmate Judge (Insolvency Jurisdiction). 

(114— 1 ) 


fCompam Petition No. 13 of 1962] 

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 

ORKIINAL JriHSDICTlOX 

In the matter of the Companies Act, 1966 
And 

in the matter of Oriental General Industries Limited 

Diieni Cciieial luduslnes Ltd., Petitioner 


Notice of petition 

} I* 1 *! is Mill under -section 391 (2) ol the ('ompanics Act, 
l,( ’' lul auctioning < ompi omise oi arrangement being the 
l, ‘‘ ,llr (>| Amalgamation ol I lindiislhati Cellulose and 
"UiM Mills Ltd . with the Petitioner company was 
M '<nfei| In Orient (Itneial Industiies Ltd., on the 30th 
I9 <j 2 and the said petition is fixed toi healing 
:,,M ' t be Leai m d Judge taking company matters on the 
'9' 1‘chiti.uj |!K>2 Anv person dcsiious ol supporting or 
'po-m- l lie said petition should send to the petitioner's 
I(nm ' s no ticc ol his intention, signed In him or his 
1 oiiiev of \dvoeate with Ins name and address, so as to 
" 1 the pet it lonei \s attorneys not later than two days 
,,W ’' 9)- date iixed lor hearing oi the petition. When 

v oppose (lie petition, the gi omuls ol opposition 
' ol his aflulavit shall he hn mshed with such 

() ^ '"I*.'’ ot the petition will he Inrnislml In the 

1 J* i •'g-ned {,, anv pm son requiring the same on payment 
u> l n c-<,ihed charges ten the same. 

^ ,l, H I he J0( h dav ot Januaiv 1992 


KHAITAN & CO , 

Attorneys for the petitioner. 

( h > I • M Office Street, Caleui ta-1. 

( 132 — 1 ) 


l Company Application No. 19 ol 1992 1 

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 

OKDlXAin ORIGINAL CIVIL JUR ISDKTION 

In the matter of the Companies Act, 1956 
And 

In the matter of The Kassipur Company Limited. 

The Kassipur Company Limited, Applicant. 

Notice convening Meeting of the members of The Kassipur 
Company Limited 

NOTICE is hereby given that by an order, dated the 
301 h January 1902, the Court has directed a meeting to 
he held oi the members ol the said Company ior the 
pm pose ot considering, and. d thought tit. approving with 
or without modification, the compromise or arrangement 
proposed to he made between the said Company and the 
members ol the said Company. 

In pursuance oi the said order and as directed theiem, 
further notice is hereby given that, a meeting oi the 
members oi the said Company will he held at 4 Clive Row, 
Cfllciiltii-1. on Friday, the 2nd dav ol March 1992 at 
o pm. in the afternoon at which time and place the said 
members are requested fo attend. 

Copies ol the said eouipi omise or arrangement a nil of 
tlic statement under section 393 can he had I roe of charge 
at the legist ci cd oilier* oi the Company at 4 Clive, Row, 
Calcutta, or at the office of its Attorneys Messrs Orr. 
Dignam & Co. at 29 Notajji Subhas Road, Calcutta. 

Persons entitled to attend and vote al the meeting may 
vote in person oi hv proxy, provided that all proxies m 
the prescribed term ire deposited at the said registered 
office of the Company not later than 18 hours before the 
meeting. 

Forms of pioxv can he had at the registered office of the 
Company. 

.Tim Court has appointed Sit J. D. K. Brown and failing 
him Mr. Gudhaii Lai Mehta as Chairman of the said 
meeting. The ahoveinent miied compi omise or arrangement, 
if approved by the meeting, will he subject to the sub- 
sequent appioval of the Court. 

Dated this 1st day oi February 1992. 

J. D. K. BROWN, 
Chairman appointed lor tin* meeting. 

(138-1) 


A. Q M ABU NASFK, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
ns an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 29 — 4 ) 


IUBI1UTI imiJSAN RAY CHOUDHTJRY, LL.B., intends 
to he enrolled as iki Advocate ol the Calcutta High £?ourt. 

(30-4) 


^\NKAR DAS GUPTA, LL.B., intends to he enrolled 
as an Advocate oi the Calcutta High Court 

( 31 - 4 ) 


PRAPrrULLA KUMAR MAJUMDAR, LL.B., intends to 
he enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(32 — 4) 


6G 


THE (*A IjC'JTTTA (iAZKTIK. FEBRUARY 8, 1962 


[Part ij 


ANIL KUMAR Ci HOST1 , LL.B., intend* to be onrolled 
as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(3a— 4) 


I, JAVAN TA M.UUMDAR, LL.B., intend to enrol as 
an Advocate ot tin High Court. Calcutta. 

(34—4) 


KKDAR NATH OATTA. B.Coin., LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(50 --4) 


GOVIND NARAYAN KAKRA, M.A., LL.B., intends to 
he enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(51 — 4) 


SA1THENDRA MOHAN BAKU, M.A., LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as a»n Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(52—4) 


DWI PEN l)R A NATH 1)K, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate ol tin* Calcutta High Court. 


HIM ADR l SANKAR M.UUMDAR, M.A., LL.B 
intends to be cm oiled as an Advocate, Cal. High Corut. 

(bi) -4, 


PRATYUSH KUMAR MAJUMDAR, B.Com., }\.\ t 
intends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Comt 

(70 — 


SHRI SYAMA KANT A GHOSH A L, LL.B, intends 
lie em oiled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(78- -ti 


SANT I MO A" BASU, B.COM., LL.B., intends to be enroll*] 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(79 — 4) 


CUR SETTER MANACKJEE RUSTOMJEE, LL.B., 
tends to be enrolled as an Advocate ot the Cal. High Cmut 

( 80 — 4 ) 


RIPUSUDAN PRASAD OHAUDHURY, LL.B., intends to 
he enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 

(81-4 1 


SATYA NARAYAN DANCATCH, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(54-4) 


RAMA RAN.IAN MITKHOPADII YAY, LL.B., intends 
to he enrolled as an Advocate of tho Calcutta High Court. 

(55—4) 


RAM UAL MUNDIIRA, LL.B , intends to be enrolled 
ns a*n Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(56 — 4) 


SHR.1 CYAN (HAND KASERA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(57 — 4) 


JUGAL KISHORE JETHALIA, LL.B.. intends to h* 
enrolled as an Vdvocate ol the Calcutta High Com I 

( 82 — It 


UALTA PRASAD TIWAR1, LL.B intends to he oniolhd 
as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(83-ii 


DURCA SANKAR MULLJCK, LL.B., intends m Im 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Coutt 

(84- h 


SWADIUN KUMAR GUPTA, LL.B, intends to ‘ 
enrolled as ail advocate of the Calcutta High Comt 

(8M 1 


RABINDRA KUMAR NAC, LL.B., intends to be 
admitted as an Advocate in the High Court at Calcutta. 

(58—4) 


SHRI MUKUL CUOSH, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate ol the Calcutta. Higb Court. 

(59 — 4) 


SHRI SIBAPR ASANNA S1NHA, B.L . intends to k 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta Higli Court. 


ARDHENDUSEKHAR CHAUDHURI, LL.R . mt* u!s 
to be enrolled as an Advocate ol Calcutta High C" ,l,{ 

(87-4 


AH IN DR A 
enrolled as mi 


KUMAR AD1IYA, LL.B., intends to he 
Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 


<ao-4) 


TIM II? KUMAR RAY, LL.B., intends to be 

an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 


enrol l (,, l w 


l’Alt'f 111 


THM CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 8, 1962 


6 ? 


DJL1P KUMAR DAS GUPTA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(102 — 4) 


i‘d 


\.\(L\RMAL AGRAWAL, LL.B., intends to be enroll- 
as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(103—4) 


1RMAL KUMAR DA1TA, LL.B., intends to he enrolled 
, tS an Advocate ot tlie Calcutta High Court. 

(104 —4) 


DILI J* KUMAR MlTKHOPAnilYAY, LL.B., intends 
tu he enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(105—4) 


KKDAlfc NATH ( II ATTOPADHYAY, B.L., intends to 
bo cm oiled as an Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 


(106—4) 


SUKRITl RHUS 1 1 AN NATH, LL.B., intends to ht 
unrolled as an Advocate* ol the Calcutta High Court. 


(128 -1) 


M.WINDR AKUMA R BHAUMllv, LL.B., intends to he 
unrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 


( 120- — I ) 


L \ KSI L\1 IN \ R A Y A N MUKHERJEK, LL.B., intends to 
lie enrolled as :i n Adxoeale ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(130—4) 


MRim.VlOY DAS HUH A, LL.B., intends to he 
eni r»l It'd as an \dvoeale ol I he Calcutta li ig? Ii Com 1 

(131 I) 


SI1IU L\KSNMf N A R A ) AN DA’II’V, iM Com., LL.B., 
iM'inls to he enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court. 

(133—4) 


(d M HI HA.N KIM KK, LL.B , intends to he enrolled 
a ' aM Mhoeale ol Calcutta High Comt. 

(131 \ ) 


TO ALL TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN 

NoriCK Is hcichv given that Khn than Krishna Sen 
'V'i (:,, ' nw,,a S(5n ’ ;,,, d S, 'H Brog) Kislior e Son all 
P,/ Na l,,, ( ’aleutl a , have retued tiom tin 

- iierslnp hnsinesK ot Messis. Wootna Cb.mm S“ii A 
'i’Vm n, d (, hma Ba/ai Street, Calcutta, and the 
8 ' 1 M r* 1 ; Shr , 1 Jj,har Lal S <'" r ’» 132 Old China Baza. 
„ I l. ‘'d' utta, has become the Sole Ihopnetor ol tin 
; i Messrs ^ooma Hunan Sen A Sons and has be conn 

, n( luri.L tt U ‘ V ^ ,a, ' lvi ,U , I l,,d Hade name oi the firm 
th. l( V H ol lm pori Licences, as per terms ot 

will,' J aterl s<h (lnv ( d -Li rm a rv 1962. registered 

ri, / °t ('aleutta on 10th Janua. v 1962 and 

iMKim^ S , h, ir ,Ilhar «<"' * now ‘■“rrv.ng on the 

■ °! Messrs. \\ noma CTiaran Sen A Sons as Sol • 

132 Old China. 


|> n ,. , rv wuomn Charan Sen A S 

JLix V. /” having the principal office at 11: 
■ lJ Stieet, Calcutta. * 


14 Street, Calcutta, 

tlu ‘ Lith January 1962. 


M()\| BAN KRJEE, 
Header for Jahai Lai Sen. 


(124—1 


THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA 

Summary of the Minutes of the Proceedings of the 
Commissioners’ 13 th Meeting, held on the 27th 
October 1961. 

,; Uh Meeting ol the Coinmissionei s held on the 
-/th Octohoi 19ol the iollowmg business was 1 1 ansju ted 

1. Appointment of Chairman: The Gen eminent letter 
regai ding the continuance ot the appointment ol 
Shu K Mitter as Chairman oi 1 he Commissioners 
lor the Port ot Cnleuita was placed on iccuid 


Working of Haldia Anchorage, 1961-62 Season: 

Commissioners approved the Chairman's pro 
m the matter. 


The 
oposais 


S. 


9. 


JO. 


II. 


Extension of the Western arm of King George’s 
Dock for the provision of four mooring berths and 
*«u Ur / epalr berths — Third Five-Year Plan: 

Jho Commissioners sanctioned, subject to the 
sanction ot Government, as a charge to Capiial -m 
estimate of Us. 100 lakhs tor the above work/ ‘ 

Construction of a Hazardous Goods Godown and 
changes In the procedure for handling such goods: 

I lie Commissioners sanctioned, subject to tin* 
Nimi-tinn of Government, ns a charrr |„ (lainlal 
cs "" m,, \ <*,' K*. •1,()7,:«X) for t bo a bm o work 

io. l !„n ,|,|,r, |' < ’ < < ' ,ln "!-, , ‘ s 111 *lio prnmlurr for 

Ini lulling hazardous goods. 

C m«riV Ct i l0n of a r#,a,nln 8 wall at the Bengal 
Distilleries at Bhudrokali -Application from 
Mes rs. Shaw Wallace and Company Limited- 

CirmmxMonors deri I 

(on o Minion t, that, t hr sanction rnpnrcd undn 

lh _° e^l'-uttn l>o,| Art hr arrordrd to 
the execution of the above work. 

Accident to the M. V. "Lossiebank”i The Invest,, 
K.itniK Oflirer s n-romniondnl ion was a]>|novc<l. 

M - V. "Jaiadhruw" : Tin- Invest,- 
^ Oflieei s recommendation was approved. 

Grounding of the M. v. “jaiagopal” : The Inw.sii- 
gating Officer's recommendation was approval. 

Accident to the 8. 8. ’’Happy Seafarer”: The 

'".provY 1 ^ *<-‘romniendation was 

Accident to the S. 8. “Educator": Tin- Inv.-ut 
tinting ( l/firnr’.s irri.imm-mlatmii was apprm ,-d. 

Block proposal: Tin- Commissioners also , RMP . 

*ronos,Vs , "- , 'rV'' St1 ' Proposals and rout, nr 

roposals r,l„t,n K In oxer,, I, on ol works. K r»nl of 

1 l , ""‘h«w ol material, remission ol rliar: 


il'ges, 


M.e If.j February I9(>2. 


B. ('. M riTKR, Secretary. 


(142 - 1) 


THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA 

Summary of the Minutes of the Proceedings* of the 
Commissioners' 12th (Special) Meeting, held on the 
23rd September 1961. 


AT Hie 12th (Special) Meeting n) 
held or, the 23rd September 1961 the 
was transacted: — 


the ( 'ninniKsionei.s 
following business 


1. Incentive Tonnage Scheme: Thr Co„„„iss,n„r,x 
decided on the recommendation of the Deputy 
( h airman, to implement the Incentive Tonnage 
. ehenie as amended by Government with imme- 
diate effect. 


P. C. MITTER, S(‘eretary. 

The 1st February 1962. 


(143—1) 


68 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE; FEBRUARY 8, 1962 


[Part n 


NOTICE 


NORTH DA M I' DA COAL CO. LTD. ht-roby «ive notice 
under section 4K5 ot the Companies Art, 1950; that the 
following special Resolution was passed at an Extra- 
ordinary Oeneial Meeting of the Company hold on 5th 
damnify KM >2 at 21 Rupchand Roy Street, Calcutta^. 

“Resolved that the company he wound up voluntarily 
as a Ci editors’ voluntary winding-up, and the Diree- 
tor.s he and are hereby authorized to take all such 
actions that may h« necessui y therefor according to 
law”. 


For Ninth I>amuda Coal Co. Ltd. 
(hi Liquidation), 

A. N. RAY, 

G. SAHA. 


liquidators. 

Calcutta, the loth January 1902. 


(139—1) 


FORM No. 151 
(See Rule 315) 

COMPANIES ACT, 1956 
Members’ Voluntary Winding-up 

NOTICK of appointment of liquidator pursuant U) 
section 51 G. 

Name of Company: Messrs. Sanbaluik Private Ltd 
Nature of Rumtess: Transport. 

Address ol Registered Oltire: Arainbagh, llooghlv. 

Name and address of Liquidator: Mr. K. L. | 
F.C.A.. 3K Netap Suhlias Road. Calcutta -1. 

Date ol appoint men! • 30th January 19(>2. 

Rv whom appointed* Mcmbeis ol the Company. 

(137- 1, 


COMPANIES ACT, 1956 

Creditors* Voluntary Winding-up 

NOTICE OF APPOINTMENT OF LiqCIDMOItS 
PCRSI ANT TO SECTION 51<» 

Name of Company: North Damuda Coal Co. Ltd. 
Nature ei Business: Coal Factory. 

Address of Registered Office. 21 Rupchand Roy Street, 
Calcutta-7. 

Names and addresses ol Liquidators* (l) Mr. A. N. Ray, 
(> Chinch Fane C.iieut ta-l , and (n) Mr. C. Saha, (i Church 
Lane, Calcutta-"!. 

Dale of appointment: 5th January 1902. 

Ry whom appointed* Members and Creditors. 


For Nortli Dammla Coal Co. Ltd. 
(In Liquidation), 

A. N. RAY, 

G. 8 AHA' 

Liquidators. 

Calcutta, the 20th January 1902. 


(140—1) 


IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT 1956 
AND 

IN TH EL MATTER^OF PRASAD PRINTING AND 
PUBLISHING CO., PRIVATE LTD. 

(IN LIQUIDATION) 

Creditors* Voluntary Winding Up 

NOTICE is hereby given tliat a General Meeting o| the 
Shareholders and n meeting ol ihe Creditors ol the above- 
named Company will be held at the office of the under- 
signed Ht 11-D Arpuli Lane. Calmtta-12. on 12th Man n 
1902 at 10-45 a.m. in order that there will he laid before 
the said meeting a final account ol the winding up showing 
how* the winding up lias hum conducted and the property 
ol l he eoinpam lias been disposed of and lor giving any 
explanation thcrcol and foi parsing necessaiy lesolulimm. 


G 

Dated Ihe Sth Febrnaiy 1902, 


N. ROSE. Liquidator. 


(135-1) 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT 1956 
« AND 

IN THE MATTER OF SANBAHAK PRIVATE LTD. 

(IN MEMBERS VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION) 

THE lollowing special resolution was passed unanimously 
in the ext rani dmarv gemral meeting held on 30th January 
1902, at the registered office of the company at II a.m. 

“It evolved that Sanhuhak Piivate Ltd. he wound up 
voluntarily and that Slui K. L. Tlasii, F.C.A., of 
3S Net an Suhhas Road, Cnlcutta-1, he appointed as 
the liquidator tor t lie winding up ot the company 
arid Shri K. L. Rasn he paid Rs, ,’MH) as lemuuerat ion 
in addition to his actual out o| pocked expenses.” 


K. L. BASIL 

3S Netaji Suhhas Road. Calcutta, 
the 31st January 1902. 


F.C.A , Liquidator. 


(130 — 1) 


NOTICE is hereby given that a meeting ol the ( , r<*Hiioi>. 
under section 195 of the Companies Act, 1950, of M«>vis 
Mudiak Mondal Limited (In Liquidation ) will he held on 
Friday, the 23rd February 1902, at 10 a.m. at the o|| l( ',. 
ot the Liquidator Shri Cl I*. Agrawnl, FC.A., 7 Hasting 
Streid, (*alcutta-l, lo consider the report ot Liquidator 

G. R AGRAWAL, Liqmdalo, 
Calcutta, ihe 22nd January 1902. 

(123 I, 


NOTICE is herein given to nil the creditors of j{ ( m,,,. 
Food Products Pi hate Limited (In Liquidation) to Miluiir 
pi’oo) ol then debt or claim aeai W’l till 1 said ( dll l p.i 1 1 v ,, 
required by* law by delivering at the office ol the Li, ]Ul 
dator, 7 llashims Stiect ( *:i lent ta-l . on or before IbeL’/ii 
March 1902 ll any hudv lails to suhiuit his affid.m! 
piool within the time limited as aloresaid he uwiv ),, 
excluded I rum the benefit of am distrilmtiou ol dividur) 
heloie his debt is pioved. 


Calcutta, 


Foi Reform Food Products Pnvate hi-, 


tlie 22nd 


(In Liquidation) 

G. P. AGRAWAL, Liquid, urn 
Januarv I9(i2. 


(139 


CHANGE OF TITLE 

I. Apiv Kumar Ghosc ol “Hum- Rhavvnn'L 57 IUm, 
MoliaL Bariaekpoie, 2 l-Pargamis. hereby dcclaie th.ii i 
write my name both a-, “Amy Kumai Ghosc”. ‘ Vn 
Kumar Ghost Mondal"’ and also as “Ai<o* Kumar Mmiai 
hut henceloith I iike to wide my name as “A|oy Kim > 
Ghoso”. 

(U\~ ! 


STOLEN 

THE Government Promissory Note No. CA027S90 ol i' 1 
3 pel cent, loan ol 1970-73 toi Rs. 500 (Rupees m> 
bundled only) originally standing in the name ol IP-* 
Bank of India and last endorsed to Sin. Bliolaha'i I’m 
the proprietress, by whom it was never endorsed to aio 
other person, having been stolen, notice is heicbv 
that payment ot the above note and the inteiest tit* ii’iig 
have been slopped at the public Debt Offiet , Reserve Iho 
oj India, Calcutta, and the application is about to be m.n 
lor the issue ol duplicate in lav our of the piopiietie* 
The public ;*re cautioned against purchasing or *»t 1 i»*i wi** 
dealing wit h the abovcmcntioned security. 

Signature ol the Advortnei Bholahati Paul. 

Residence- • 1 LA Delii Kntally Road, Caleutta-1 I. 


The Notice rcgaiding Company Petdion Vn 22»- 
by Nahai A #atta. IB OJd Post Offiie <|n*et C«J« ‘ 1 
appearing at page 2fi cil ihe “C.dridla Gizeftc' (l '’ 
rLmuaiy 1H, 19(12, nicy he treated as cancelled 

S. MPKHKILTEK, 

Supei mlendont . Gov eminent l 1,,|ll: '“ 
AVest Bengal. 


Rcgist stvd No. C207 


(Ealrutla 



No. 7 of 1962 






ilAGHA 2fi ] 


THURtjDM, I Liil'.Li ARY 15, l%2 


[ 8 AKA 1883 


CONTENTS : 


State Statistical Bureau — Cost ol living indexes, 
Calcutta, and wholesale pric© index 
for the week ending the loth Fohruary 
1962 .. .. 

Wholesale Market Prices oi Agricultural and 
\nimal Husbandry Products (average 
quality ) m District doling tin* month of 
September 1961 

Calcutta Improvement Trust — Notice 


Page. 


21 — 22 


23—70 

71 


iiue No. 296 


SUPPLEMENT — Official Papers 

STATE STATISTICAL BUREAU, WEST BENGAL 

TABLE 1 

Cost of living indexes, Calcutta and wholesale price index (week ending 10th February 1962) 
Coet of living index — Base : November, I960. 


All-India wholesale 
price index*. 


Period. 


(1) 

Wd January 
Apnl 
July 
October 


i^5 Janaary 
Apnl 
July 
Oetobar 

January 

April 

July 

October 


1—100 


Expenditure level (in Ba.) 
-200 


101- 


201—860 


Base, 

1962-63. 


Converted 

with 


' All 
items. 

Food! 

' Ail 
items. 

— > 

Food. 

i A 

All 

items. 

Food. 


imt hi 

bate. 

(8) 

(3) 

(4) 

(6) 

(6) 

0) 

(«) 

<») 

93-9 

88*8 

94*1 

88*4 

94*7 

88*6 



96*2 

90*4 

96*6 

90*1 

96*3 

90*1 



94*0 

89*4 

94*4 

89*6 

94*7 

89*6 



96* t 

91*6 

96*3 

91*4 

96*6 

91*3 

•• 


80*7 

84*7 

91*1 

84*4 

91*7 

84*6 



89*9 

88*0 

90*6 

88*7 

91*2 

84*0 

88*9 

82* a 

91*1 

86*6 

91*6 

86*8 

92*0 

86*8 

92*9 

86*0 

98*7 

89*T 

98*9 

89*4 

94*0 

88*0 

90*6 

83*9 

90*9 

84*8 

91*0 

84 *v> 

91*2 

83*7 

96*3 

88*9 

96*2 

CD 

e 

A 

94*8 

90*4 

94*6 

89*6 

100*0 

92*6 

99*6 

98*0 

98*7 

96*3 

97*8 

94*7 

108*6 

96*8 

102*4 

101*3 

100*7 

98*9 

99*4 

96*9 

106*7 

98*8 


Reviled series (Base : 1662*68) and the corresponding converted 



SUPPLEMENT TO TI1E CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


*>Q 


fVnod. 


(D 

1967 January 
April 
•Inly 

October 


1968 January 
April 
l:iJy 
Oeudwr 



Cost of living index — Base 

: November, 

1960. 


All-India wholes^ 
price Index*. 


Expenditure level (in R«.) 



Base, Convert^ 

1962-63. with 

Noveoabtr 
I960 *i 

1 100 


101—200 

A 


201 — 360 
— a 


All 

Food. 

r~ — 

All 

Food. 

All 

Fond. 

b*w*. 

items . 


items. 


itemn. 



fl> 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(•) 

(V 

W (9) 

98 -4 

94*6 

97 0 

91 9 

98-2 

90 -3 

107-3 99 <4 

100*6 

98 *0 

98 '9 

95-6 

97 0 

93*6 

106-6 99 . ( 

106*0 

106-8 

104 1 

108 -0 

102-7 

100*7 

111*9 103| 

107*6 

107*0 

106 -7 

104 0 

104 -ft 

102-3 

108-9 loo 


106 -0 

101 *8 

103 *1 

98*1 

101 -8 

96-4 

196 -U 

Ok i 

106 -0 

108-1 

104-4 

100 -2 

103 -2 

9,-9 

107 -4 

M-S 

109 -4 

107 -6 

107 -9 

104 -9 

106-7 

102 -o 

114 *7 

106: 

118 .7 

114 8 

1 11 *2 

113-8 

109-3 

108 -6 

lift -2 

107 \ 


1969 ^ armm.v 
Apnl 
July 
Ootob^r 


103*6 

»7 -2 

102 *9 

96 -6 

106-8 

100-9 

106-1 

99 -4 

110-4 

108-3 

106 -2 

106-1 

114-6 

116-0 

113-0 

113-4 


102 -7 

94 -6 

112-3 

li ‘ 4 < 

104 -6 

98 -2 

111 -9 

103 € 

108-1 

104 -0 

116-8 

10S . 

111 -6 

111-0 

119-3 

110 > 


I960 January 

. • 

110-4 

April 

. - 

110 -6 

July 


114-4 

October 

. . 

114 -4 


1961 January 

109 -7 

February 

no o 

March 

iln -9 

April 

112-2 

May 

1121 

June 

113*7 

July 

118-2 

August 

117-9 

Bepterobor 

118-0 

< )ot.ol>er 

110-9 

€ November 

i2o 

December 

117-0 


108 -3 

108 *6 

106 

•3 

108-0 

108 -9 

106 

•2 

113 -9 

112-8 

111 

•6 

113-6 

113-2 

111 

•8 


i()6 -0 

108-7 

103 *2 

108-1 

109-6 

104-3 

106 ! 

j09 -0 

! 04 6 

108-2 

111 * 

107-2 

107-8 

111-4 

107-0 

110-1 

112-7 

109-1 

114-1 

116 J 

113*2 

116-8 

lie- 6 

116-7 

1161 

116*6 

116 1 

119*7 

118*2 

118-2 

12 ) 1 

118-1 

118-4 

111*0 

116-3 

112-0 


107 -6 

103 *2 

118-8 

i)U 

107-9 

103 *3 

120 6 

111 « 

111 -6 

109 -6 

124-7 

JIM 

112-2 

110-4 

126 3 

117 j 


108 *4 

102 3 

126-6 

114 : 

109 -U 

103-3 

126-7 

11M 

10* -6 

lo3 9 

127*6 

llh-i 

1110 

106*6 

126-8 

114 ; 

111-0 

106-6 

126-3 

n«i 

112-1 

108-1 

126*9 

116 1 

114 -2 

112-2 

128-7 

no : 

116-6 

114 > 

127-4 

115 ' 

116 - 1 

113-8 

121*6 

lie 

116 9 

110-7 

124 * 1 

in . 

16-9 

1 io 6 

* M24 *3 

Ha -# 

111*1 

111-1 

122-8 

11 / 


Week ending. 


13 - 1*02 

111*6 

110*6 

20-1 62 

in *;; 

110*2 

27 . 1.62 

n - i-s 

into 2 

3 - 2-62 

113-8 

109-1 

10 - 2-02 

114-0 

109-7 


113-0 

108 - 1 

112 3 

IOV -: 

112-8 

108-2 

112 * 1 

107 * 1 

112-3 

107-3 

111*7 

loo -;] 

112-3 

107-1 

111*7 

100*1 

112-7 

108-0 

112*1 

107*1 


•Revised seriee (Base t 1962-68) end the eorreeponding converted aeries. 
♦♦Revised. 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


23 


Wholesale prices of agricultural and animal husbandry products (average quality) in Calcutta 

during October 1961 . 






Dates. 




Aver age 

Avemgo 

( ’oinmodifcy. 







Monthly 

of 

of 

Unit. 






average. 

September 

, October. 



Otli 

13th 

20th 

27th 

— 

1961. 

I960. 



f 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rh. lip. 

Cereals 









Per Md. 

t,c« (Fine) Bliaaamanik . . 

Md. 

23-75 

23 75 

23 76 

24 00 

— 

23 81 

23-50 

26-10 

tu-c (Fine) Rupflal 

ft 

25-50 

26-50 

25 50 

25-50 


25-50 

25 00 

26 • 25 

; I00 (Medium) Nftgra 

99 

23 25 

23 26 

23 25 

23 25 

— 

23 ^6 

22 75 

23 • 75 

t, c o (Medium) Raima 

99 

23-60 

23 ■ 50 

23-50 

23-60 

— 

23-60 

23 50 

24 50 

(it* (Coarse) West Bengal 

•» 

21-60 

21 -60 

21-25 

21-60 

— 

21 50 

21 25 

21 25 

tico ((hoarse) Orissa 

M 

20-60 

20-60 

20 -50 

20-50 

— 

20-60 

20 36 

2010 

; 


3rd 

9th 

16th 

23rd 

30th 




[^heftt (East Punjab) 

Quintal 

64 92 

56 26 

50 -26 

56 -26 

61-62 

57-06 

63 41 

— 

IVheiit (Gk)vt. Stock) 

M 

37-61 

37 52 

37-52 

37-52 

37 52 

37-51 

37-51 

37 61 

tta 

•» 

41 -53 

41 .>3 

41 53 

41 53 

41-53 

41 63 

41 63 

15-50 

ttft (Agmark) 

M 

41 53 

41 53 

41 53 

41 63 

41-53 

41 53 

41 53 

41 63 

Uta (Fair Price Shop) 

99 

40 J 9 

40 19 

40 19 

40 19 

4019 

40 19 

40-19 

40-19 

aula 

I. 

57-10 

57 10 

67-10 

57 10 

57 10 

67 10 

57 10 

21 -31 

huda (Fair Price Shop) . . 

- 

55 76 

55-75 

65-75 

55-75 

55-75 

65 75 

65 -75 

55 -75 

iji 

M 

60 -28 

60 -28 

00 -28 

60-28 

60-28 

60 -28 

60 28 

i 

22 -60 

igo t Cochin) ^ Tapioca 
globules) 

N 

65-00 

05-00 

06 00 

05 00 

65-00 

05 00 

67-00 

30-00 


hth 

13 th 

20th 

27th 

— 




aue (Bihar) 

Md. 

14-00 

13 50 

13 50 

14 00 

— 

13 75 

14 00 

J4-75 

>wnr (U. P.) 

f • 

13-50 

13 00 

13-00 

13 50 

— 

13 25 

14 00 

18-00 



3rd 

9th 

16 th 

23rd 

30th 




IlHOll 

re 

16-00 

10 00 

10-00 

16-00 

42-88 

10 00 

10 00 

17-50 

Irley 


13-50 

13 50 

13-50 

13-50 

36-18 

13 50 

13 62 

15-50 

Pulses (Wholo) 


0th 

J 3th 

20th 

27 th 





Bug (Ordinary) U. P. 

Md. 

18-00 

1 8 -00 

18 00 

18 00 



18 00 

18 80 

19-63 

I»ur (Big) Bhupal 


17 00 

17 00 

17 00 

18-00 

— 

17*25 

17 30 

18-13 

*ur (Small) West Bengal 

M 

15* (X) 

15-00 

16-00 

15-50 

— 

15- 12 

14 00 

1600 

wui (lhg) (Khari) Bhupal 

* i 

21 50 

21 50 

21 -60 

23 00 

— 

21 87 

21 30 

• 

21-38 

»ur (S ma H) (Khari) Weat. 
Bengal 

II 

19-00 

1900 

19-00 

19 00 

— 

19-00 

19-00 

17-00 

l"l IH| K ) (Black) M.P. .. 


21 50 

21 -50 

21 50 

21 50 

— 

21 50 

21 50 

18-88 

S' 1 BSmall) (Black) West 
(Bengal 

” 

19 50 

19 50 

19-60 

20 -00 

— 

19 62 

19 20 

17-00 

f®* 11 (Big) past, Punjab . . 


15 50 

15-75 

15-75 

17 -00 

__ 

16-00 

15 80 

18-00 

Rrn («mall) West Bengal 


14 00 

14-25 

14 25 

15 00 

— 

14 37 

14-35 

16 00 

K(Big) tj. p. 

hr-— 


17 00 ) 

17-00 

17 00 

17-00 


17 -00 

17 -00 j 

! 

17-00 


1 Govoi 


rnnaent. 


ties represent the rate* at which licenced retailerH not their supplies 




‘24 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


Wholml* prim 0ctober H 


Commodity. 

Unit. 

Dates, 

Monthly 

average. 

i 

Average 1 
of 

September, 

1961. 

Av «r HW) 

of 

Gctohtf 

I960, 

6th 

13th 

20th 

27thJ 

— 



lin. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Kb. , lt 

PubM (Whotol— conoid. 










Matar (Gata) . . 

Md. 

16 00 

16 00 

10 00 

16 00 

- 

16-12 

16 00 

l7-i 

Arhar (Big) U. P. 

M 

16 00 

16 00 

16-00 

17 60 

- 

16 37 

16-00 

Pi 1 

Arhar (Small) West Bengal 

ft 

u 00 

14 00 

14 00 

15 50 


14-37 

14 10 

15-1 

Kheeari (Big) M. 1*. 

M 

11-60 

12 00 

12-00 

13 60 

- 

12-25 

11 10 

Hi 

Kiieoari (Small) West Bengal 

99 

10 26 

10 60 

10-60 

11 50 

— 

10 -68 

10 05 

J0-; 

Kulti (Horse Oram) 

99 

14 00 

14-00 

14-00 

) 4 -00 

~ 

14 -00 

14-00 

14 1 

Chora (Barbati) 

99 

60-00 

60 00 

00 -00 

65-00 


56*25 

47 -02 

34 C 

Dal (Split PultM) 










Mung (Ordinary) U. P. 

Md. 

26 60 

26 60 

26 50 

25 -00 

— 

26-37 

25*50 

-"•3 

Masur (Big) Bhupal 

H 

19 00 

19-00 

19 «0 

22 00 


19-75 

18 -80 

Is 1 , 

Masur (Small) West Bengal 


18-00 

18 00 

1800 

19-00 


18-25 

17 20 

is n 

Urid (Big Blaek) M. P. 

„ 

26 00 

26 00 

26*00 

28-00 

- 

26 50 

26 -00 

-• - 

Urid (Small Blank) West 

• f 

26 00 

25 00 

26-00 

26 00 

— 

25-25 

25 -00 

23 (1 

Bengal 

Urid (Big) (White) M. I\ . . 

M 

26 00 

26 00 

26-00 

28-00 

-- 

26 50 

26 00 

25 j 

Urid (Small (White) U. P. 

H 

24-00 

24 00 

24 00 

25 -00 


24 25 

24 00 

23 ii 

Gram (Big) East Punjab . . 

99 

19 00 

19 60 

19-60 

19 00 


19 26 

19-30 

21 3 

Matar (Big) U. P. 


18 00 

18-00 

18-00 

18-00 


18-00 

18 00 

17 7 

Matar (Gata) 

99 

21-60 

21-50 

21 -60 

24-00 

1 

22 -12 

20 50 

2te 

Arhar (Big) U. P. 

99 

23 50 

23 50 

23*50 

23-50 

! 

23 -60 

18 20 

23*2 

Arhar (Small) West Bengal 

r. 

20-60 

20 50 

20 50 

21 00 

1 

20 62 

20-30 

21 <* 

Kheeari (Big) M. P. 

M 

16-60 

1 6 50 

16 50 

16 -00 


13 37 

14-70 

14 1 

Khesari (Small) West Bengal 

99 

13 00 

13 00 

13 00 

16-00 


13 60 

12-80 

13 1 










l’er Mi 

Spice* 










Onion ( Bombay) 

Md. 

N.S. 

21-00 

20-00 

17-60 

— 

19-50 

13 60 

‘i . 

Onion (Bihar) 

» 

19-00 

19-60 

18-50 

17-00 

— 

18-50 

13 40 

in 41 

Onion (Tripuri) 


15-00 

16-50 

18-00 

18-00 

— 

16-87 

12-87 


Garlic 

1* 

28-00 

34-00 

36-00 

36-00 

— 

33 50 

27 -60 

JO fl 

Ginger (Green) 

it 

42-00 

28-00 

26 -00 

26-00 


30 25 

36 -60 

*h £ 

Ginger (Dry) 

M 

70-00 

80 -00 

80-00 

80 -00 


87 -50 

68-00 

75(H 

Tamarind (with seed) 

t» 

16 00 

16-00 

16-00 

16-00 

— 

16-00 

16-00 

J1 

Turmeric (Erode) 

60 Kg. 

72-36 

72 -36 

72 -36 

to 

CO 

— 

72 -36 

68.40 

47 *< 

Turmeric (Madras) 

99 

61 64 

61 -64 

61-64 

61 04 

— 

61-64 

61 -64 

3b ■« 

Chillies (Bihar) 

Md. 

95- 00 

95-00 

95-00 

95-00 

■ 

95-00 

92-00 

9,v0( 


N. S. No supply* 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


25 


WhoteMl* prie*» October 1961 






Dates. 



Monthly 

Average 

Average 

Commodity. 

Unit. 






of 

of 

6 th 

13th 




average. 

Septmiiln*! 

October. 



20th 

27th 

— 

1961. 

1960. 



He. nP. 

Kb. nT. 

Kb. nP. 

Kb. iiP. 

Kb. nP. 

lta. nl*. 

Kb. nl\ 

Kb. nP. 

8piCSS — rancid. 










CliiUioH (Tutioorin) 

Md. 

75 00 

75-00 

75-00 

75-00 

-- 

75 00 

76-00 

72 00 

Ulttck Topper 

- 

165 00 

166-00 

165-00 

165-00 

— 

166*00 

160-00 

217 50 

Aniseed (Mouri) (Cleaned) 

60 Kg. 

00 00 

60-00 

60-00 

60*00 

— 

60*00 

60 00 

40 00 

Anisoed (Mouri) ( line loaned) 

oe 

35 00 

35 -00 

35 -00 

35 00 

— 

35-00 

35 4/0 

30 00 










Per Md. 

Uetelnut (Aloppi) 

»• 

348-40 

348 40 

348 -40 

348 40 

— 

348*40 

240-00 

210*00 

lietnliiiit (Tenant) (Split) 

»» 

31 1 • 70 

341 70 

341-70 

341*70 


341 70 

253 00 

186-25 

Medium 









Uetelnut (Singaporo)Mediuru 

** 

341 00 

341-70 

341-70 

341*70 

— 

341*70 

253-00 

180.25 

Ketolnut (Sundneti Mlu-ed) 

»> 

268 00 

268 00 

268-00 

268-00 

— 

268-00 

200-00 

160 00 

Kailitt (Culo) 

Md. 

1 70-00 

170-00 

170-00 

170-00 

— 

170 00 

170 00 

160-00 

Katha (Singapore) 


4(H)- 00 

400 00 

400-00 

400*00 

- 

400-00 

400 -00 

N.S. 

Kntha idanakpur) (Mack) 

.. 

360-00 

360-00 

300 00 

360-00 


360-00 

360 00 

360 00 

Coiriandor (Dhuniu) 

50 Kg. 

65-00 

55-00 

55-00 

65 00 


55-00 

56 00 

48-00 

(Cleaned). 

('oM'jaiider (Dlimiia) 


32-00 

32-00 

32 • (Mi 

32-00 


32 * 00 

32 • 00 

40-00 

(I’neleaned). 








Cinnamon (Darohmi) 

1 Kg. 

20 50 

20-06 

20-96 

20-96 


29 84 

31 - OS 

N.S. 

('ie\e lJ (Zanzibai) 

** 

33 17 

34-24 

34 ■ 24 

34-24 , 


33 07 

31-94 

242-60 

\ju mi ( I hg) . . 

50 Kg. 

44-00 

44 00 

44 00 

44-00 1 

— 

44*00 

44 00 

28-50 

\ |W uii (Small) 

• • 

30 00 

30 00 

30-00 

30 00 


30-00 

30-00 

21*26 

(iummins<*<‘d (Zoom) (Cleaned) 

- 

122-00 

122-00 

122-00 

122-00 

— 

122*00 

122 00 

8<i • 25 

I'ummniheou (Zoom) (IJn- 

f'leanod j. 

*• 

87 O0 

87-00 

87-00 

87-00 

1 

87-00 

87 00 

70-00 

1^1. i<k < 'uminjn. (Kalu Zoom) 


63 00 

63 00 

03 00 

63 00 


63 00 

63*00 

50-00 

Mel hiHe(.<j 

Md. 

! 48 00 

48-00 1 

48-00 

48-00 

- 

48-00 

48-00 

35-00 

M\rolmlmi (West lioiigal) 

.. 

6 00 

5 00 

600 

5 00 


6*00 

5-00 

5-00 

(Wilamoiu (Eliiuhi) (Liuro) 
Kahmpoug. 

Quintal 

203*68 

201*00 

201-00 

203*68 

.... 

203 68 

202 07 

06 00 

L’im|a mom (Klacln) (Small) 
Mysore. 

1 Kg. 

20 10 

20 33 

20 33 

20 33 


20 27 

20 10 

22*00 

Potato and Vegetables 









Per Md. 

l ’ 0 < ttl ° (Cold StomRO 

Niumtid) 

10 Kg. 

7-24 

8-01 

8-32 

8 32 


7 08 

6*70 

,17-87 

J ° UUo (L)t5H lu Nainital) 

»» 

7-24 

804 

8-04 

7-50 

-- 

7*70 

N.S. 

N.S. 

' otAt °( 1 '. r. (Kound) 


6-17 

6-97 

6*70 

6*17 


6 50 

5-32 

14*12 

f°tato (Madras) 

»» 

7-24 

8-04 

7-77 

7-77 

— 

7-70 

6 til 

17-50 

>wot't Potato 

Md. 

10 -00 

8-00 

8-00 

7 -00 

— 

8-25 

12 40 

8* 87 

>weet Pumpkin 

,, 

10-00 

12*00 

12-00 

11 00 



1 1 • 25 

8-40 

6*50 

(li.niud) 

00 

12-00 

14 00 

24-00 

22 00 



18*00 

18-40 

15 75 

5r| nj«l(Ui, K) 

„ 

0 -00 

0 -00 

22 00 

20 00 

. 

15-00 

12 -20 

1 1 • 75 


0* 

14-00 

20 -00 

25 00 

20-00 


10-75 

19 00 | 

17-50 


N. B.—No supply. 


SUPPLKM ENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


■JO 


Wholesale prices 


Commodity. 

Unit. 

Potato and Vegetables 

— cnncJrt. 


Bittergourd (Karels) 

Md. 

White* FntnpK in 


Bot.t logon id 

•• 

Patal 

•• 

Kftfhu 

M 

Radish 

100 

Cucumbei 

* 

Green Plantain 


Barbati 

M«l. 

papaya ( l 


Jhingu 

•• 

Green Chi lies (Bihar) 

e» 

(jlroen Chi lie-* (L>eshi) 

” 

Cabbage (Darjiling) 


Cabbage (Madras) 

•• 

Cauliflower (Bihar; 

10d 

Peas (Simla) 

Quintal 

Peas (Darjeeling) 

- 

French Beans (Darjooling) 


French Beans (Bihar) 


Tomato (Madras) 

St 

Tomato (NasiK) 


(Carrot, (Madras) 

•• 

Carrot ( N’asiU ) 


Squash (Darjeeling) 


Beetroot (Madras) 

*• 

F/uits (Fresh) 


Banana i v> 'nbri < 

MM) 

Banana (SiuL'aoore) (Medium) 

•• 

Banana (Chan, pa) (Medium) 

•• 

Orange (Nagpur) 

»• 

Orange (Madras) 

• 

Mozambique (Swo»*t hnnej 

ft 

Pomelo 

M 

rinoappie (l\«m ) 

*’ 


October 19$ 


Date*. 

Monthly 

Average 

of 

September, 

1961. 

Average 

of 

October, 

1900. 

Oth 

13th 

20th 

27th 

— 

average. 

Ra. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Rb. uP. 

Rs. ni* 

22*00 

22-00 

32 00 

u 

© 

o 

- 

27-00 

20-80 

10 <10 

0-00 

6*00 

0-00 

6-00 


0*00 

0-00 

5*00 

700 

10-00 

14-00 

13 00 

- 

11-00 

11-00 

N.S. 

30*00 

32 * 00 

35-00 

40-00 

-* 

34-25 

23-20 

27-2o 

12 00 

12*00 

12 00 

12-00 

- 

12-00 

11-00 

7-75 

NX 

N.S. 

5 ■ 00 

3-50 


4-25 

N.S. 

7*00 

7-00 

7-00 

7* 00 

5-00 


0-50 

400 

5 75 

3 O') 

3 00 

3-50 

3 00 

... 

3-12 

3*00 

4 12 

13 00 

14-00 

25-00 

30 00 

- 

20*50 

13-20 

12-1)0 

12 on 

12 no 

14 -00 

13-00 


12-75 

11 *20 

S 5d 

8-00 

12*00 

N.S, 

N.S. 

— 

10-00 

8-00 

11 5u 

28 00 

40-00 

35-00 

40-00 


35-75 

27-50 

hi fio 

2K 00 

40*00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

- 

34-00 

24-40 

N.S 

3r»-oo 

35-00 

40-00 

40*00 

- 

37 50 

32 00 

3s 7,' 

35 • 00 

35-00 

40-00 

40 00 

— 

37-50 

32-50 

33 33 

55-00 

55 00 

oo-oo 

no * oo 

— 

55-00 

04 ■ 00 

45 00 

For Md. 

100 -so 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


100 -SO 

211-05 

70*00 

187*00 

187-60 

B>() 80 

134-00 


107-50 

21105 

55 lid 

NX 

N.S. 

N.S. 

80*40 

— 

80-40 

N.S. 

25 00 

107 00 

107*00 

120-00 

93-80 


107-10 

77-72 

27-50 

75-04 

85*70 

80*40 

07-00 


77-05 

70-95 

*27 50 

NX 

N.S. 

N.S. 

107*20 


107*20 1 

N.S. 

3v33 

07-00 

93* SO 

80 40 

75 *04 

— 

79-00 

04 32 

33 T5 

NX 

N.S. 

N.S. 

75-04 

— 

75*04 

N.S. 

N.«. 

53-00 ; 

53-00 

53 00 

42-88 | 


42 * 92 

51 99 

10 2' 

53 GO 

58-94 

07-00 

07-00 


01-03 

08-33 

1»>-12 

ii r»u 

11 50 

12 On 

11-00 

. - 

11-50 

11-50 

11 50 

4 50 

4 50 

5-00 

4-50 


4*02 

4 50 

7 OO 

3 50 

3 50 

4 O') 

3-50 

- 

3-62 

3-50 

3*-' 11 

1200 

13*00 

14-00 

14-00 

— 

13 25 

N.S. 

5-U’ 

10-00 

12-00 

14-00 

14 -00 

— 

14-00 

15 60 

ii-00 

15-00 

15*00 

20 00 

10-00 

— 

16-50 

14-20 

10 OO 

20-00 

22-00 

25-00 

25 00 

1 

23-00 

17-20 

27 25 

125 00 

| 125-00 

125 00 

90*00 

— 

110-25 

[ 120-00 

91 


N. 8.— No supply. 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1%2 


27 


print Oetobwr 1M1 


Commodity. 

Unit. 

Dates. 

Monthly 

Average 

of 

Average 

of 

6th 

13th 

20th 

27th 

— 

average. 

Septetnbei 

1061. 

r, Ootober, 
1960. 



Rs. nP. 

Re. nr. 

Rs. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Ha. n P. 

Ha. i.P. 

Fruiti (Frath)— concW. 

Md. 

130-00 

120-00 

120*00 

120-00 


122-50 

126-00 

105-00 

jplr (Sintlti) 


130*00 

130-00 

130 00 

150-00 

— 

135 00 

129*00 

N.S. 

IftTH 

tt 

00 00 

60-00 

60-00 

60 • 00 


60*00 

57 00 

32*60 

JB vaa 

» 

1000 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

* 

10*50 

9*60 

N.S. 

me (Sour) 

100 

4-50 

4-60 

4-50 

4 00 


4 37 

4*10 

4-87 

[ 

Md. 

40-00 

40-00 

40-00 

40-00 

— 

40*00 , 

40*00 

60*00 

l 

jftjws (Afganisthan) 

•* 

400-00 

360-00 

350-00 

350-00 


362-50 

358*00 

N.S, 

jcoaiiut (Green) 

100 

22-00 

22*00 

22-00 

22-00 


22-00 

22-00 

19*00 

Fruits (Dry) 


3rd 

10th 

17th 

24th 

3lat 




(«n Hholl (’liftman 

Md. 

326-00 

325 00 

325 no 

325-00 

325*00 

326-00 

331 25 

260-00 

So 1). 

Honda (in nliell ('human 

„ 

270 00 

270 00 

270-00 

270 00 

270-00 

270 00 

266-00 

190*00 

S». -)• 

Jioiuk (without nh.'ll) 


000-00 

600 -00 

000-00 

560*00 

500-00 

584 00 

000 00 

300 00 

Iran). 


0 th 

13tli 

20th 

27 th 






loanut (with ahull) (Hen- | 
;ul) (Medium) 

loo 

32-00 

34 00 

36 on 

36*00 

— 

34 50 

32-00 

26*00 

)ra ( I'lptur) 

Md. 

108-00 

108-00 

108 00 

108*00 


108 00 

108 *00 j 

93*75 

Ira ( Andaman) 

* 

52*00 

52-00 

52-00 

52 *00 


52*80 

62-80 | 

- 



3rd 

10th 

17th 

24 th 

31st 




UmJnut ( 1 )ecort itMlt'i 1 ' 

.. 

42-00 

42- oil 

42-Ot, 

42*00 

42*00 

42 00 

42 00 

43*06 

Bills (PodlUWIl' • 


190-00 

190 00 

190-00 

190-00 

190*00 

190 00 

180-00 

125 00 

Iruit (in kIh’,1 1 ) 


90-00 

90-00 

90 • »)() 

90-00 

90-00 

90 On 

87-50 

80*00 

limi (Kernel; 

.. 

100 00 

190-00 

J 9o-oo 

l 80 • 00 

180-00 

184 00 

187 5o 

150 00 

(Kerne!) 

- 

206-00 

206-00 

205*00 

206 ■ 00 

205-00 

20 6 00 

207 50 

214 25 

i«-oi . . | 


180-00 

180-00 

180 -00 

180-00 

180-00 

180 00 

197 50 

160 00 

* hio (Pesta) 

Seer 

16-00 

16 00 

15 50 

15-00 

15*50 

15-30 

16-25 

20-00 

MHagdml) (Blank ) 

Md. 

16-00 

46-00 

62 00 

50-00 

50 00 

48 40 

45 00 

50-00 

• 

Mllaum) (Red) 

” 

27 • 00 

27-00 

35-00 

33 • 00 

33*00 

31 00 

27-00 

42 • 00 

Eggs. 


4th 

11th 

18th 

25th 





(Agmark) (Medium) 

J ,000 

183-00 

190-00 

190-00 

187*50 

187 *50 

187*60 

186-50 

175-00 

F *W(IVraded) 

.. 

176-00 

176-00 

180-00 

180*00 

180-00 

178*00 

160*00 

143 00 

c (Doslti) 


160-00 

160*00 

150-00 

140 00 

137*50 

145-60 

140 00 

130*00 

1 (Madras) 

** 

160-00 

160*00 

160-00 

160*00 

156*25 

159-25 

150-00 

133-00 

*■ — - - 




' 


i 

1 




N. S.»No aupply. 











SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


•js 


Wholssals priow Oct°li«r 1 *6 


Commodity. 

Unit. 

3rd 

9th 

Dates. 

tilth 

23rd 

30th 

Monthly 

average. 

Average 

of 

September 

1961. 

Averse 

of 

Octobo] 

I%0. 



Rs. nP. 

lia. nP. 

* 

03 

P 

* 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Kh. nr 

Poultry. 










Fowl (Livo weight) 

60 Kg. 

176 00 

200*00 

225-00 

226-00 

225-00 

210-00 

172-50 

215-0 

Chicken (Live weight) 

M 

260 00 

260-00 

250*00 

250*00 

250 -00 

250-00 

250-00 

224 C 

Duck (Live weight) 

99 

150 00 

150-00 

150*00 

160*00 

150-00 

150-00 

150 00 

132 ( 

Pigeon (Live weight) 


300 00 

300-00 

300*00 

300*00 

300 00 

300-00 

300-00 

2<»4 ( 

Meat 










Hoof (Retail Price) 

Md. 

00-00 

00 -00 

60-00 

60*00 

80-00 

64-00 

60-00 

6«-(l 

Mutton (Retail Price) 


140-00 

140 00 

140-00 

140-00 

140 00 

140.00 

140 00 

120 (j 

Goat meat (Retail Price) . . 

tp 

140*00 

140- 00 

140-00 

140-00 

140-00 

140 00 

140 00 

I2n 0 

Pork ( Fresh 1 (Retail Price) 

$ 9 

90-00 

90-00 

90-00 

100-00 

100 00 

94 00 

90-00 

80 -(j 

Milk and Milk Products. 


0 th 

13th 

20 th 

27t,h 

— 




Milk (Cow) 

Md. 

27 00 

45 00 

40-00 

27-00 

— 

34 75 

27-00 

43 ; 

Milk (Buffalo) 


40 ■ 00 

40-00 

40-00 

40 00 

- 

40 00 

40 00 

54 ( 



3rd 

19 th 

loth 

23rd 

30th 




Putter (Bihar) (salted) 

t» 

230-00 

230-00 

230-00 

230-00 


230 00 

230 00 

219 ii 



0th 

13 th 

20th 

27tli 

-- 


i 


Butter (Bihar) (unHulted) . . 

,, 

220-00 

220-00 

220-00 

220-00 

— 

220 00 

220 00 

202 



3rd 

0th 

Kith 

23rd 

30th 




Ghee (ordinary) 


235-00 

235-00 

235 00 

235 00 

629*80 

PerQuintol 

236 00 
(Per Md.) 

236 • 00 

240 0 

Ghee A gin ark (Bihar) 

»» 

235-00 

235 oo 

235*00 

236-00 

629-80 

235 00 

235 00 

22o ii 



Otli 

]3t.li 

20th 

27 th 

— 




Ghee Agmark (U. P.) 

M 

255-00 

255-00 

265*00 

255-00 


255-00 

255 00 

LTm r 



3rd 

9th 

16th 

23 rd 

30th 




Ghee Aginatk (Madras) 

»* 

226-00 

225 • 00 

225-00 

:25 -00 

603-00 

225-00 

225 00 

224 fl 






PerQuintol 

(ror Md.) 

38 00 


Oliliana 


32 00 

40 00 

50 *00 

60-00 

32-00 

40 80 

43 ■ 

' Fish. 







(Per Md. ) 









PorQuintnl 

115-00 


Kalla 

Md. 

110-00 

110 00 

120*00 

110 00 

294 80 

112-50 

1 J 1 ' 

Rohu 


120-00 

120-00 

120 00 

120-00 

321-60 

120-00 

120-00 

llOd 

Hilsa 

*» 

11500 

1 15-00 

115-00 

115*00 

308-20 

115* 25 

115-25 

10) -'I 

Ohingri (Bagda) 

M 

105*00 

105-00 

105*00 

106-00 

281 -40 

105-00 

106-25 

92-5 

Beckti 

•I 

120 00 

120 00 

120 00 

120-00 

321-60 

120 -00 

122-50 

S4-0 

Indian Saimon 

M 

95* 00 

95-00 

105-00 

95*00 

264*60 

95 00 

96-26 

77 «> 

Mullet (Bhangan) 

»♦ 

120 -00 

120-00 

105*00 

190 -00 

32100 

116 -25 

j 

115-00 

93-c 


N. S.=*No supply. 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


29 


Who!***!* prieM October 1961 






Da ten. 



Monthly 

Average 

Average 

Commodity. 

Unit. 






of 

of 

r, October, 

3rd 

9th 

1 0th 



average. 

Soptomlxi 



23rd 

30tli 


1961. 

1960. 



Hs. nP. 

Hs. nP. 

Its. ril'. 

K«. 111*. 

Its. 111*. 

its. III*. 

Its nl\ 

Its. 111*. 

Fish — concld. 










Ph^sIi (Butter fish) 

Md. 

11000 

110-00 

110*00 

110 00 

294-80 

110 00 

110 00 

100-00 



165 00 

165 00 



Quintal 

Per Md. 


Koi 

t* 

166 00 

165 00 

442-20 

165-00 

173 75 

l()0 00 



165-00 




Quintal 

Pit MU. 


Mmrur 

$9 

165 00 

165 00 

165-00 

442-20 

165 00 

176 26 

117 00 







Quintal 

Per Md. 


Dry fish. 










flombav Duck 

Md. 

85 00 

85-00 

85-00 

85 00 

85.00 

85-00 

85-00 

89-00 

Beokti (Small) 

• 9 

70 00 

70 00 

70-00 


70.00 

70-00 


N.S. 

Prawns) (with Shell) 

" 

70 -00 

\mn 

70-00 


70.00 

70 -00 

70 00 

66 00 

Prawns (without Shell) 

99 

100 00 

160 00 

160 00 

160 00 

160.00 

160-00 

160- 00 

N.S. 

Sheep and Goat. 










[; >at (10 seers not woight 
of moat). 

Per head. 

36 ■ 00 

38-00 

40-00 

36 00 

30.00 

37 20 

35 00 

31-20 

>heep(19 hoors net weight of 
meat). 

99 

33-00 

35-00 

35-00 

32-00 

32.00 

33-10 

32-00 

29 00 

Milch Cattlo. 










jnvs (milk yield of 3 hooim u 

IjH> ). 

Per head. 

225-00 

225-00 

225 ■ 00 

225 • 00 

225.00 

226 0D 

225 00 

226-00 

'mi** (u ilk yield of 4 seers a 
day) 


275-00 

275 • 00 

275-00 

275-00 

275.00 

275 00 

275 00 

276 00 

'out, ('tiilk yield of 0 secTH a 
day 1 

- 

1 375 00 

375-00 

375-00 

375-00 

375.00 

376 00 

376 00 

375-00 

luffulo (milk yield of 0 seers 
a davj. 

- 

450-00 

450-00 

450 00 

450 00 

450.00 

450 00 

450-00 

400-00 

lullalo ( milk yield of K seers 
n tiny), 

i 

500 *00 

500 00 

500-00 

500-00 

500.00 

| 500 00 

500 00 

460-00 

Cattle Fodder. 


3rd 

10th 

17th 

21th 

31st 




^ bom limn 

Md. 

8-00 

9 00 

8-00 

8 -00 

10-00 

8 • 60 

7-81 

7-50 

in i' Hi. m 

*• 

2*75 

3 25 

3 25 

3 25 

2-75 

3 05 

2-76 

2*75 

luma IUiiimi (('hum mixed) 

” 

7 00 

7-00 

7 • 75 

7 -75 

8-50 

7 • 60 

7*87 

8-59 

Jilaal i r.husi 

- 

6 -50 

MWi 

7-50 

7 -50 

10*00 

7-80 

6-75 

6-75 

' i,n lOmsi (Chum mixed) 

- 

7 -00 

8-26 

10 -5 0 

era 

12.00 

9 65 

8 50 

7 60 

M.n ( 'luim 


12-00 

12 00 

12-00 

12 50 

18.00 

13*30 

11-25 

13*00 

p *‘ ,lr 1 ’huHi ( Chun i mixed) 


11 00 

11-00 

11 -25 

11 -25 

1 1 . 50 

11-20 

1 1 00 

10*62 

,lf a* ( 'hum 


10 00 

10 00 

10 25 

10-25 

10.75 

10 25 

11 87 

M * 12 

• l|| H ^iiiiw .. 


3 75 

3-25 

3-50 

3 50 

2.50 

3 30 

3* 12 

4 .3 

r ""n Cnihh (Hot ail rrice) 

- 

2-25 

2 25 

2-25 

2-26 

2.25 

2 25 

2-25 

4 00 

Oil Seeds. 


6 th 

13th 

20th 

27 th 





Per Md. 

ri,, ni(|imi (midecnrticated) i 
l«U»r 

^d(srnHll) (Bihar) 

Quintal 

80-38 

58*04 

80*38 

80-38 

66 • 08 

— 

77*03 

81 86 

26*50 

•• 

60-28 

60-28 

58-94 

- 

59-61 

61-08 

23-87 

- 

76 36 

asai 

76-36 

7971 



77 03 

78 -75 

26-37 

(^iKiiiimm) 


112-53 

mi 

197-17 

109-86 

- 

110 52 

122-85 

l 



N. 8.— No supply. 












SUPPLEMENT TO TITT CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1VW 


October IB61 



Dates. 

Monthly 

average. 

Average 

of 

September, 

1961. 

Average 

of 

October 
I960. ’ 

Commodity. 

Unit. 

nth 

13 th 

20th 

27th 

— 



Kb. nP. 

Kb. iiP. 

K«. nP. 

Kh. nP. 

Kh. ni*. 

Rb. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Kh. nl\ 

1 









Per Md. 

Oil 8Md %—eonc.M. j 










i 

MuHtitrd (yellow) (Uuj.i.t) . . 

Quintal 

115-21 

no 21 

117 89 

1 1 7 80 

- 

110-55 

115*75 

37-ki 

MuHt.lt! < 1 ( voll' *'\ ) ( l ' - 1 • j 


104 49 

104 49 

107*17 

112-53 

— 

107 17 

104*49 

34- It; 



91 09 

91-09 

91 -76 

100-47 

— 

93*60 

90-60 

3 i or, 

Hni (U.P.) 












93-77 

93-77 

95 11 

93-77 

•- 

94*10 

94-84 

34-5u 

Knjli (M. 1*.) 













99* 13 

96*45 

100*47 

— 

100 -SO 

95-51 

32 or, 

Lotai (KtiHt, 1‘unjab) 












72*34 

73* 60 

73*03 

79 04 


74-51 

76-36 

25-79 

Mfthua (llihur) 

M 









Oil. 










Castor 

Quintal 

155- 00 

100-00 

155 00 

155 00 

— 

165*00 

180-40 

58 00 



193* 00 

187 00 

187-00 

195 00 


100 62 

208-00 

89-75 

Groundnut 

M 











178 00 

173-00 

172 00 

182-00 

— 

176 25 

182 20 

58 U 

Limteotl (VVu-t Ben-jnl) • • 

»» 











203-00 

201*00 

198 00 

204 • 00 

— 

201 60 

235-60 

88 50 

Til 

M 











262 00 

260 00 

262 • 00 

268 00 

— 

204-25 

262 60 

104 75 

Coeonnut, (Co»*bm) 

»» 











‘>21 00 

220-00 

220-00 

241 00 


227 00 

223-20 

HU 81 

Mustard (\W t d.-m-'..!) . . 

M 











223*00 

221-00 

221*00 

242 00 

— 

226 75 

224*20 

HO M 

Mustard (Annuli 1. j 

*» 









Mfthua (Went Bengal) 

M 

202*00 

200*00 

196-00 

204-00 


200 50 

211*60 

99 62 

Oilcake. 










CftHtor 

Quintal 

27-46 

N.S. 

27-46 

29*46 

— 

28*12 

27*32 

9 OH 



30-80 

36*00 

35 50 

36 17 

— 

35*86 

35-90 

13 oi 

Groundnut 










Luineed (Went Bengal) 

,, 

38-84 

39 00 

38*85 

42*87 


39 89 

32 23 

i3 33 



37 01 

41-00 

37*61 

37*51 

— 

38 38 

37-24 

17 on 

Til 

” 











32 49 

32-82 

32 49 

35*50 

— 

33*32 

32 21 

12 In* 

Mustard (\Vo*d Bon-nl) 

»* 











10 72 

12 73 

10 72 

10*72 

— 

11*22 

10-72 

5 00 

Mahua 










Tobacco. 










Matiliari (Medium) 

Quintal 

330*00 

330-00 

330 00 

336*00 

— 

33(t* 00 

334* 00 

197- 11 

* 


300*00 

300-00 

300*00 

300 -00 

— 

300*00 

295-00 

188* lit; 

Jati (Medium) 











j 

470- 00 

470-00 

470*00 

470 00 

— 

470-00 

475 00 

195 !>1 

Ilingli (Medium) 











800-00 

800*00 

800* 00 

800*00 

— 

800-00 

800*00 

250 00 

Biri Tobacm . .. 










187*60 

187-60 

187*60 

187-60 

— 

187-60 

187-60 

60-00 

Ohowing (Khaim) •• I *» 









Lac. 










Sti-ll LftO (t\ '* I’a'ft**’ 

; Quintal 

93-80 

93*80 

93-80 

93-80 

— 

93*80 

85*76 

35-50 

Stick I.nc (Manhhum Plum) *» 

120 60 

120*60 

120*60 

120 60 


120*60 

115*24 

49-0 (l 


NJ9.-No (apply. 



SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


31 


Wholesale prices October 1B61 


Oomiw'd’.tv. 

Pnit 

1 >at*s 

| Monthly 1 

Averup* 

of 

1961. 

Average 

n f 

0th 

18th 

20th j 

: 

! 

27 <h 

i 


average , 

i 

( MHohei 
i960. 



K«. nil 

Ra. nl\ 

Ks. nP. 

Rh. nl*. 

Ks. nl*. 

Hh riP 

Rh nV 

H». nl’. 

Lac oonold . 


i 







I 'or M« 1 . 

Seed! iac ( Kunmi — N o . 1 ) . . 

guint ftl 

[ 1 8 l ftO 

184 tiO 

184 60 

1S4 00 


184 (>0 

182 24 

73 50 

Seedlao ( Manbhum Bayeaki) 


R<2 76 

152 7 * * 

152 7o 

152 70 


152 76 

Ml 72 

64-50 

X Shellin' 


155-44 

155 11 

155 44 

1 55 • 44 


135 44 

15n 14 

61 50 

Fibre. 










Ju.o iBeiiar) (Jangli) 

(Quintal 

SO 38 

| 

SO 38 

79 04 

79 01 


79 7! 

89 2 1 

133-63 

Jute (Indian Dift.t (Garsat) 
Murshidabad. 

- 

81 7 J 

■S3 00 

S4 40 

81 • 72 


82 72 

9 J • 89 

135-30 

.fuse (Indian Northern) 

< 0 ar hat ) J alpaiguri . 


S* 41 

m3 7 4 

K5 74 

85 74 


80 4 1 

90 98 

135-32 

Juie (Indian Middle) 

(Ultitl ict). 

- 

85-71 

K7 OS 

81-40 

Si - 40 


85 40 

: 

94 37 

141 -66 

.) ue (Assam Middle) 


95 1 1 

:*(,- t.» 

95 11 

95 IJ 


95 H 

100 '4 

I 17-02 

,?u ♦ (Indian Middle) 

(Noi tlvvn). 


95 11 

90 15 

95 11 

95 1 1 


95-44 

loo- 7 1 

145-68 

• uK‘ iIV dm (Garsat) 

24 Palauan. 

- 

93 77 

91 09 

91-09 

91- 09 


91 70 

101 54 

140-52 

V*-riU» dlarwatj (Denhi) 

.t 

MO 82 

79 04 

79-01 

79 04 


79- 3‘» 

95 89 

131-58 

linn l » 

„ 

79-04 

77-70 

77 70 

77-70 


1 78 03 

8.' 41 

131-95 

Sunn -hemp (loose) (Benares) 

Md 

13 00 

h* 00 

45 on 

42-nn 


-l 1 25 

4o 00 

28-00 

Nuon-iiemp (loose) (green) 

\< 2 inark Sunn-hemp (haled) 

( Benares No. 1) 

400 lbs. 1 

40-00 

200 no 

40-0(i 

1 95 ■ • 

h> 00 

195 00 

43 00 

!no-oo 

i 

45 25 

187 5(1 

4 ; - so 

209 -00 ! 

36-00 
100 ll»s 

152 O0 

Agmurk Suun-hemp (baled) | 
(gi Ion undressed ) j 

- 

243 00 

243 OO 

c 

c 

4* 

5N 

230-00 


211 25 

2.» 1 00 

200*00 

Apmark Sunn hemp (baled) 
(preen tow) 

- 

210 <>o 

210 00 

210 no 

213 00 


233 75 

215-00 

180 00 

Anlma! Fibre. 

- P, p Bmatl* 

dorne tail 

1 Kg. 

10-00 

10-00 

4 K • no 

10-00 

48 00 

10 00 

is -00 

10-00 


4<> no 

in oo 

3«> -oo 

1 6-00 

Per lb 

45 00 
1 1 'or seer 
9*73 

-Wae-mane 

- 

12-00 

1400 

1400 

14-00 

- 

13-50 

15-20 

0-00 

Hids and 8Mn. 










"** -we., salted) 

100 lbs. 

105 00 

106 00 

105 00 

J06 00 


105 00 

100 oo 

95-00 

Buffalo (wet, salted) 


75 -00 

76-00 

75 00 

76 00 


c 

o 

1 2 

1 6ft- 00 

70-on 

<!oat (Average) 

100 

250 00 

250-00 

250- 00 

250 00 


250 0o 

250-00 

225-00 

''keep 

pieces- 

200-00 

200-00 

200 -CM 

200 • OO 

— 

200- 00 

180-09 

125-00 

1 


N. S.wNo supply* 



■i2 


SUPPLEMENT Tu THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


WhotoMl* pries* October i# 6l 
















Dates. 



Monthly 

average. 

Average 

Average 

Commodity, 







of 

of 

October 
I960. ’ 


4th 

11th 

18th 

26th 


September. 





1961. 


1 

Re. nP. 

Ka. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Rb. nP 

Ra. nP. 

R*8. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Rb. np. 

MIsetUaiMoui. 




i 





(Per lb., 
22 . 1 m 

Celery seed 

1 Seer. 

SO 00 



30 00 


30 00 


Sugar CaOe 

Pon. 

N.8 

N.8. 

0 00 

000 


0-00 

N.S. 

4-;>o 


■ 

ttth 

13th 

20th 

27tn 

— 




Sugar (Indian) (Medium) . . 

Quintal 

121 04 

116-68 

112- 12 

108-54 1 



114 79 

11212 

Jl2 D 

Ciur (Bheli) (U. 1\) (Medium) 

Md. 

21 60 

21 SO 


21-60 

— 

21 26 

21-30 1 

R«t Md 

21 0(i 



4th 

11th 

18 th 

26th 





Qur (Akhi/ 

Md. 

22-00 


22-00 

22-00 


22-00 


2?-0n 

Dal da (Hydrogenated 

4 Kg. 

IS- 13 

13-13 ' 

13 13 

13-13 


13-13 

1 

14-16 

12-46 
Per lOlbfc 

11 50 

(rrouudnut oil). 

Rasoi (Hydrogenated 


11’ ■ 62 

12-62 

12-62 

12 - 62 


12-62 

12-75 

Groundnut oil) 




| 



Fat mixture 

Md 

76 00 

70-00 

76 00 1 

76-00 



76 00 

72 (hi 

Betel leaf 

1,000 

6-00 

5-00 

5-00 

0 00 


5-50 

6-00 

ft -on 

Firewood (Common — old) 

Cart load 
ofl5Mds. 

52 00 

52 00 

52-00 

52-00 


52-00 

N.S. 

j. 

Firewood Common — new) 

M 

4200 

42-00 

46-00 

45-00 


43-50 

12-00 

N.S, 

Firewood (Split old) 

»» 

46*00 

50 00 

50 00 

45-00 


47-76 

N.S. 

■13 :< 

Fiiowood (Spin- now) 

1* 

42-00 

42-00 

45-00 

42 00 


42-75 

44- 2i» 

A.S 

Bonemeal 

Metric 

Tonne. 

260 00 

250-00 

250-00 

260-00 


260 00 

250- 00 

1V-i ion 

2 fin lie 

Flattened Rice (Chrqa) 

Md. 

32-00 

32-00 

32-00 

32-00 


32-00 

32 00 

3 li* 

Parched Rio»j (Muri) 

ft 

38-00 

SB -00 

38-00 

88-00 


38-00 

38 00 

1 4iKc 



3rd 

10th 

17th 

24th 

31st 




Chirata 


60-00 

64-00 

64-00 

64-00 

52-00 

53-00 

46-76 

29 


NOS. -No Bupply. 


N. C. RAY, 

Joint Director oj Agricultural Marketing , Vi tsi hnga^S 


Wbitkbb' Boildinob, 1/aloutia, 
The JMh November 1961, 












SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


33 


\ holesalc Market Prices of Agricultural and Animal Husbandry Products (average quality) in 

districts during the month of October 1961 

24-PARGANAS 


( 'oinruodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month’s 

Average of 
October, 
1960. 




7 th 

14th 

21 Ht 

28th 

average. 





Kh. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rk. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Kh. up. 

Kh. up. 

Cereals, 











i;ill ) 1 'atnai 

Motiahat 


Md. 

14*50 

14 -60 

14 50 

N.S. 

14-50 

14 -60 

15 50 

,|mm) Patnai 

Ditto 



1400 

13 75 

13 -75 

14-00 

13-87 

13 85 

14 85 

, milium) Tangra 

Kakdwip 



U no 

14-25 

11-25 

14-00 

14-12 

13-66 

N.S. 

rsc ' ) Sfklaraota 

Metiahat 



13 25 

12 -50 

12-50 

12 02 

12-71 

13 26 

13 62 

I I'ftlnfti .. 

Ditto 


- 

21 00 

24 -00 

24 00 

24 26 

24 06 

24 00 

24-80 

hum) Patnai 

Ditto 



23 00 

23 UO 

23 -00 

23 25 

23 00 

23 25 

23-95 

medium) Tangra 

Kakdwip 


»» 

23 25 

23 -75 

23-75 

23-50 

23 50 

23 -00 

24-96 

. mi • ) Sadamota 

Metiahat 


*> 

22 00 

22 00 

21 • 75 

21 60 

21 -81 

21 -30 

21-80 

(irhole). 











• •ulli 

Bongaon 


Md. 

N.S. 

12 50 

12-50 

12-38 

12 40 

1 1 00 

1.V IH 

-•i.i.i 11 ) . • • • 

Ditto 


»* 

N.S. 

10 00 

10-00 

18-00 

18-67 

19-10 

17.34 

himtll) 

Ditto 


t# 

N.S. 

13 00 

13 -00 

13-50 

13 J 7 

13*06 

14-69 

I'dIhI'i nnd ncifrhibJrH. 











1 1 hihrir) 

Ham r hat 


Md. 

21 00 

27 50 

27-50 

27-00 

26-75 

19-40 

11*00 

1’umpUin 

Bomrhut (V) 



8 00 

10-00 

10 00 

11 00 

9-25 

7-30 

7-90 


Deganga (P) 


99 

0 00 

0 -00 

9-00 

9-00 

9-00 

8-37 

7*00 

! i r'iiud ) 

Haruipm (P) 


9 » 

15-00 

19-00 

18-00 

15 00 

10-76 

14 00 

16*50 


Basirhat (P) 


99 

14 00 

17 50 

1 7 -00 

17 00 

10 37 

14-00 

N.S. 


Doganga (P) 


»• 

10 00 

13-00 

10-00 

16-00 

16-25 

13-70 

11 80 

1 

Hartupur (P) 



15-00 

1S-(K) 

i s oo 

15 00 

16-60 

14 -30 

N.S. 


Baruipur (P) 


Poll. 

1*50 

2 -00 

1-75 

1 75 

1 76 

2-06 

2-00 


Doganga (P) 


M 

2-00 

2 00 

2 -oo 

2 50 

2-12 

N.S. 

2*37 

mu , . 

Baruipur (P) 


Md. 

2 ■ 75 

3 00 

3-00 

2 -75 

2-87 

2-80 

• 

2-40 


Busirhat (P) 


M 

4 00 

4-00 

3-50 

1 50 

3-25 

3 60 

3*30 


Doganga (P) 


Pt 

3-50 

3 00 

3 -00 

3 -00 

3 12 

3-70 

3 00 

l’apu\ a 

Baruipur (P) 


M 

8-00 

8-00 

8 -00 

8 00 

8-00 

9-00 

8 30 

.. 

Doganga (P) 


1 

PP 

26 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

25 00 

24-60 

N.S. 

- nurd 1 1 chchho) 

Ditto (P) 


»> 

21 -50 

18-00 

20-00 

20-00 

19 87 

21 -25 

N.S. 

i 

Baruipur (P) 


t» 

10-00 

12 00 

1200 

12-00 

11-60 

11-00 

9*76 

i 

1 Ditto (P) 

i 


PP 

15-00 

18 00 

18-00 

15-60 

16-50 

15-00 

17 00 

r '0cr . . 

| Ditto (P) 


100 

8-00 

15-00 

12-00 

8-00 

i 

10-75 

■ 

790 

N.S. 









•".4 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


Wholesale prices 24-PARGANAS — contd. October i 


Commodity, 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection week* ended Satuiday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

avoi age. 

Last ! 

month’s 

average. 

\\. 

0c 

i< 

7lh 

14th 

21st 

28th 




Rh. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

lis. nP. 

Hs. nP. 

it 

Fruit* [f renh) 










Banana (Kanthall) . • • • 

Baniipiir(P) 

pen 

2-60 

3 50 



2-87 

2-77 


Banana (Champa) •• 

Ditto (P) 


1 -50 

2-00 



1-87 

1-62 


Ooroanut (gremi) 

Amt ala (1‘) 

100 

14 00 

15 -00 


13 50 

14-37 

15*20 



Doganga (P) 

M 

18-00 

14 00 


10-00 

13-75 

18-20 


Guava . . 

Baruipur (P) 

Pon 

5-00 

8*00 

8-00 

N.S. 

7-00 

3*17 


Fruit * {dry). 










Cocoarmt (with shell) Bengal , . 

Puijuln (Pudge Pudge) 

100 

30-00 

33-00 

33 -00 

20-00 

30*50 

26* 30 


Kgy** 










Hon egg (ungraded) 

Canning 

1,000 

140-00 

140-00 

140 -00 

140-00 

140-00 

140*00 


Buck ogg (ungraded) 

Ditto 

»» 

140-00 

140-00 

MO -00 

140 *00 

140-00 

140*00 


Poultry. 










Fowl (live woight. of | «r.) 

Basirhat (P) 

Each 

3 GO 

3 50 

3 50 


3 -50 

3-60 


Duck (live weight of 1} sr.) 

Ditto (P) 


3 25 

3 26 

3 00 

3 00 

3 12 

3-15 


Fi*h . 










Bobu 

Canning 

Md. 

100-00 

130-00 

126-00 

12» 00 

118-75 

120*00 


Katla . . 

Ditto 

*t 

100 00 

130- 00 

125-00 

120-00 

118-76 

118-00 


Chingri (Bagda) 

Ditto 

* * 

110-00 

135-00 

120-00 

110 00 

118-75 

1 IS -00 


Vetki 

Ditto 

»» 

110 00 

136-00 

130-00 

l°6 00 

125 00 

128 00 


Jiol (Magur) 

Dit to 

M 

120-00 

140-00 

140-00 

140 00 

135 00 

139 00 


Jiol (Koi) 

« 

Ditto 

It 

120 -00 

130-00 

130-00 

120 00 

125 00 

130 -00 


Milch CatUe . 










Cow (milk yield of 1 er. a day) 

Backchara (P) 

Each 

103-00 

100 -00 

106-00 

105-00 

105 00 

105 40 


CattU Fodder, 










Paddy straw 

Chandpur (P) 

Kalian 

24-00 

H 

mm 

21-00 

22-00 

20-40 




of 6 mds 







1 

1 


Bongaon (P) 

Kahan 

30-00 

mm 

35 -00 

H , 

36 75 

38 10 



of 8 mds 






i 
















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


35 


yholesale prices 24-PARGANAS — concld. October 1961 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks onded Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

IvBSt 

month’s 

Average of 
October, 
I960. 




7th 

14th 

21st 

28th 

average. 




Rs. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Ra. nP 

Fibres . 










pte (traraat) 

Rongaon 

Md. 

33 00 

33 50 

34 -00 

33 60 

33 50 

36 10 

48 84 


Deganga 

.. 

34-00 

32 -00 

32 00 

32-60 

32 62 

35 36 

38 76 

£ 

Raduria 

9 « 

33-60 

35 -60 

33-60 

31 03 

33*63 

36-01 

45 -78 

stn • ' • • 

Rongaon 

>9 

28-00 

1 

28-76 

28-76 

28-60 

28 60 

31 • 85 

43-66 


Deganga 

M 

30 00 

29 ■ 00 

29-00 

28-00 

29 00 

31 76 

37-00 


Raduria 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

29 -00 

29 00 

N.S. 

44 50 

yn*rc*l*iHGOU*m 










r(niJic) 

! Rndurio (P) 

Md. 

23 50 

23-60 

24 00 

24 00 

23 76 

22-40 

16 35 

ktioned Rice (( hira) 

Am tala 

M 

32-00 

32-00 

32-00 

32 00 

32 00 

31 0b 

34-80 

rhed Rico (Muri) 

Ditto 

• 

38 00 

38 -00 

38 -00 

38 -00 

38-00 

36 40 

37 00 


(?) Indicates primary market prices as against the secondary market price which is the general case. 
N.S. = No supply. 

The unit “ Md. ” moans the standard maund of 82 *2 /7 lbs. 

Tlic unit “Quintal” moans 2*68 mds. 


ST lTM'.M KNT TO TUT (’AI-CUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


‘ It) 


Wholesale prices 


HOWRAH 


October 195 


< \> mi ion lily. 


Cereal*. 

Paddy (fine) UupHiil 
Poddy (medium) Ouhun 
Paddy ((Miill r>«*) Mota 
Kirn (film) KllpHul 
Rim (line) KliuHluilufiniU 

Rico (tine) Hiipsal 
Him (medium) Kalina 
Rico (medium) Nagra 
Rico (medium) Hal.mi 
Rico (course) Rongal Motu 
Rico (coarse) Orissa Supcnu 
Ric,e (coarse) Mota 

Pulses (Whole). 

Mmig (oidimirv) . . 

Masur (big) 

MuMir (small) 

Masur (Idiari, big) 

Masur (IvtmiT, small) 

Grid (big) 

Und (small) 

Gram (big) 
ttram (small) 

Mator (big) 

Mator (small) 

Arhar (big) 

Arhar (small) 

Kbi'sari (big) 

Ivbnsuri ( uiiall) - - 

f'uhes (split). 

Mimg (ordinary) - . 

Masur (big) 

Masur (small) 

Urid (big) 

Urid (small) 

Gram (big) 

Gram (small) 

Mn,*r -hi 2 ' 



l 1 nil. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dat/'d — 

Monthly 

Last 

month 

O' tel* 

N 11 nt«* <d Murlo-t . 


7th 

14th 

21«t 

28th 

ov< nur' 1 . 

average. 

I'll.V) 



Us. nl*. 

tb. 111’. 

is. ni\ 

Us. nl J . 

Us. 11 P. 

Us. 11 P. 

lih. 1} 

Md, 

Links! 11 hat 

Md. 

13-50 

13*50 

13*50 

13*50 

13-50 

13*50 

1.7 ,] 

l)i< t o 

,, 

12* -5 

12*25 

12-25 

12-25 

12-25 

12 25 

15.] 

Ditto 

, f 

12-00 

12*00 

12*00 

12*00 

12 00 

12*00 

111-! 

ItmiilviTslmajMir . . 

Quintal 

04-32 

04-32 

04-32 

64 32 

C)4 • 32 

02*08 

) 

y 37 j 

Ditto 

,, 

03-1)5 

03 05 

03 • 05 

04*32 

03 *81 

02-31 

j 

Itakshihni 

Md. 

22 50 

22*50 

22 • 50 

22*50 

22 -50 

22-50 

2o- 1: 

K.ujikrislmapur 

Dmntal 

02-08 

02 • OS 

02 • OS 

02*08 

02-08 

01 -23 

1 

/■ i!i> ; 

Ditto 


02 31 

02*31 

02*31 

02*08 

02-48 

00-07 

J 

Halvsbiliut 

Md. 

21-25 

21-25 

21-25 

21*25 

21-25 

21 25 

25 ) 

Ramlvii.dmnpur 

Du mini 

57 • 02 

57 * 02 

57*02 

57*02 

57-02 

50 75 

'1 

r -1 1 

Ditto 

ft 

54 04 

5 f- 04 

54-04 

54-04 

54-04 

51*41 

J 

Rakshiliat 

Md. 

20-00 

20*00 

20*00 

20-00 

20*00 

20-00 

**■’ ■ 

Howrah I’ulso Market 

(Quintal 

to 10 

10*10 

40 SO 

42 87 

41 03 

U 70 

h 

Ditto 

M 

41-53 

41-53 

40 SO 

44 21 

42 03 

41 00 

1. 

Ditto 


33*40 

33*10 

31 S3 

34 -83 

34 • 10 

33 05 

1‘ 

Ditto 


01-02 

01-02 

50 03 

58 27 

50 01 

57 47 

2\ 

Ditto 

,, 

52-25 

52-25 

50 01 

52 25 

51 01 

5117 

I'i 

Ditto 

M 

50-20 

50-20 

50-20 

58 01 

50 03 

58 40 

Jl 

Ditto 

t . 

40*10 

40-10 

42-S7 

45 55 

42 20 

41 40 

P ■ 

Ditto 

f> 

42-20 

42 20 

42 53 

41 21 

42 • 78 

13 88 

r 

Ditto 


3S IS 

3S IS 

3S- IS 

3S 85 

38 35 

3S 00 

li 

Ditto 


3s 75 

3S -75 

42 S7 

41 21 

4314 

38 S3 

Jti 

Ditto 

,, 

34 10 

34 10 

3H-1S 

38 25 

30 10 

30) 27 

14 

Ditto 


43 57 

43-57 

41 53 

42 S7 

42 8S 

12 87 

1. 

Dit to 


3S 1 S 

3S IS 

30 52 

40*80 

30-18 

30 00 


Ditto 

a 

33-40 

33-40 

34*10 

35 • 50 

34 10 

32 28 

11 

Ditto 

a 

28-13 

2S-13 

2S IS 

20 47 

28 48 

20 70 

1»» 

Howrah Pulse Market 

1 

Quintal 

02 - 00 

62 00 

64 30 

04 30 

03-03 

01 70 

0" 

Ditto 

a 

52 - 02 

52 02 

51-81 

53-28 

52 * 73 

47 41 

i 1 

Ditto 

a 

40 57 

40 • 57 

50*01 

51*58 

50*40 

48 21 

p 

Ditto 


00 00 

60 60 

74 00 

75-00 

72-08 

00 05 

24 

Ditto 

ft 

05 00 

05 • 00 

00 00 

72 00 

07-70 

04 20 


Ditto 

»» 

51 58 

51-58 

51-24 

51 58 

51 -40 

52 25 


Ditto 

,, 

50-91 

50-01 

x.s. 

x.s. 

50-91 

50 60 

1 ' ! 

Ditto 


41 -53 

41*53 

41*53 

42-20 

1 41 -60 

41-05 



SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


37 


prices HOWRAH-im/d. October 1961 


Commodity* 

Name of Market. 

i 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 

mouth’d 

^ Average of 
October, 


1 

i 

7 th 

14th 

21st 

28th 

average. 

average. 

1900. 




Kh. 111*. 

Km. up. 

Kh. up. 

ltd. nl*. 

Kh. nl*. 

Kh. nP 

Uk. nP. 

wm -‘-•‘'“el' 1 - 

(SlUttlU 

Howrah Pulse Market 

Quintal 

i 

1 

40*00 

40-00 

41-00 

N.S. 

♦0-33 

40 93 

16 46 

[(big) 

Ditto 

M 

04 30 

04-30 

56*26 

57-60 

00-01 

59 • 73 

24-00 

Ditto 

M 

51 58 

51 -58 

48-23 

50 91 

50 57 

40 -04 

19-80 

| 

Ditto 

99 

39 52 

39 52 

41 53 

39-52 

40 02 

37-91 

14-35 

| llllb'lll) • • 

Ditto 

99 

37 51 

! 

37-51 

40 19 

37 61 

■ 38 18 

36 til 

12 *95 

Vegetables. 

1 

Kali Balm's Bazar . . 

Quintal 

48-00 

48 00 

40 00 

45-00 

47-00 

19 00 

18 14 

pumkm • * 

Ditto 

100 

SO 00 

80 00 

80 -00 

80 00 

SO 00 

73 00 

71 00 


Ditto 

Quintal 

75 00 

75 • 00 

75-00 

70-00 

73-75 

N.S. 

N.S. 

\ 

Ditto 

» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

70-00 

70 00 

20-00 

N.S. 


Ditto 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

20*00 

30 40 

Funis ( Dry). 










t (dry) . - *' 

Sankrad tttuf mn Mar I 't 

100 

28 00 

28 00 

29 00 

29 00 

28-50 

20 40 

23-00 

hints [Fresh). 










i (Green) 

Domjui (l‘j 

100 

20 ■ 00 

20 00 

20 00 

20 00 

20 00 

18 00 

13-40 

Ft*h. 

llowmli Bridge Market 

Quintal 

350-00 

350-00 

350-00 

350-00 

350 00 

357-80 

121-00 


Ditto 

99 

345-00 

345-00 

345-00 

350 -00 

340-25 

357-80 

129-00 


Ditto 

9 • 

340*00 

340-00 

340 • 00 

340-00 

340-00 

354 75 

110*00 


Ditto 


350-00 

350-00 

350-00 

350 00 

350-00 

377-00 

107*50 

(hugda) . , 

Ditto 


350 00 

350-00 

350-00 

350 00 

350-00 

377-00 

118*33 

.. 

Ditto 

- 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N,S. 

N.S. 

N.S* 

375 00 

107*00 

It. and Milk Products. 










)w) 

Bandhaghat Klintal . - 

Md. 

32-00 

32-00 

32-00 

32-00 

32 00 

32 00 

£2*40 

uffnlo) .. 

Ditto 

•• 

40-00 

40 • 00 

40 00 

40-00 

40 00 

40 00 

40*40 

Mi hh Cattle. 










^ yield of 1 Boor j»or 

i 

Uluhona 

j 

Kiwli 

N.S. j 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S, 

100*00 

'nttii Fodder. j 

1 









; 

1 

| Sihpur Bit* ha! i (dial . . 

Kalian 
of 10 
mds. 

50 00 

50 00 

50-00 

50-00 

50-00 

l 

40-20 

55*00 






SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


3M 


Wholesale prices HOWRAH— concld. October \\ 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

, , 

7th | )4t)i | Slut | -8lh 

1 1 f 

Monthly 

average. 

Last. 

month’s 

average. 

-W-rfy 

Brin) 

)'«6' 




Rb. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Hs. nP. 

its. 111 *. 

Rs. nP. 

Rb. nl*. 

1U 

Oil Seeds. 










Mustard (Yellow) 

How mb Pulse Market. 

Quintal 

108-51 

108-01 

109 85 

107-17 

108-51 

100-02 

34 

Mustard (Kuril) 

Ditto 

» 

95-71 

95-71 

95 00 

90-41 

95 70 

97-04 

33 

Mustard (Rai) .. 

Ditto 

M 

92-45 

92-45 

92-45 

101 14 

94 <14 

92-43 

3n 

Groundnut (Undecorticated) . . 

Ditto 

99 

60-98 

60-98 

60-98 

00 • 98 

60-98 

65 - 09 

25 

Groundnut (Decorticated) 

Ditto 

M 

N,S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

83-44 

N.! 

Linseed 

Ditto 

99 

78-30 

78-30 

77-09 

8J-37 

78-69 

79 05 

2 1. 

Castor 

Ditto 


00-98 

00-98 

58-04 

58-94 

59-90 

' 

60-82 

24 

Til (White) 

Ditto 

.. 

112 53 

112-53 

107-19 

109-85 

110-52 

125 39 

43 

Til (Block) 

Ditto 

” 

90-45 

90-45 

80 • 38 

88 51 

90-45 . 

! 

117 90 

;ti, 

Oil. 







1 

I 

I 


: 

Mustard Oil 

Kali Balm’s Bazar . . 

Quintal 

235-00 

235-00 

235-00 

235-00 ' 

j 

1 

235-00 , 
j 

88 00 

Tii 

Fibres. 






1 

1 

I 

1 

1 

i 



Jute (Carast) 

Doinjur (P) 

Aid. 

37 ■ 50 

35-50 

30-00 

1 

33-00 1 

j 

35-50 1 

37-80 

4ii 

Miscellaneous. 


( 



1 


j 

j 



Betel Leaf 

llowrub Bridge Maiket 

1 

10,000 ' 

35 00 • 

35-00 

40-00 ! 

15 00 

38-75 

32-00 

n- 



loaves. ' 

30-00 1 







Betel Leaf 

Bagnan Khaloro Market. 

” 


30 00 

35-00 1 

<10-00 

33-75 ' 

27-00 



N.B .— The prioos of Rico at Ranikishnapur and the prices of pulses, oilseeds, Kish, Mustard Oil and Vegetable-? except Sweet pur. 
for the month of October, 1901 and the last month’s average prices except the price* of Mustard Oil and Vegetables have boon -in 
in “Quintal” whereaB the monthly average prices of October, 1 900 have been indicated in “Mnunds” as prevailed then 



SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, H'.BRUARY I S, 1962 


19 


Wholesale prices HOOGHLY October 1961 


Commodity. 

Name of Mai kot. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 

month h 

Average o! 
August, 



7th 

14ih 

21st 

*28ih 

ft\ ej ,1 ' * * * * 

a v enure. 

19 00. 




Its. n]\ 

Its. up. 

Its. ill*. 

Bn. n 1*. 

Kn III*. 

K.* . ill* 

Bn, up 

< ’ereiils. 










IVkM\ (Fine) Dudkalam 

( Mtampadmigu 

Md 

13-00 

13-00 

13 *00 

12-50 

12*87 

13 20 

10-00 

Paddy (Fine) Sitasal 

Bali Dowanganj 

» * 

15-25 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

15-26 

15*00 

N.S. 


Kalipore 


15-00 

N.S, 

N.S. 

N.S. 

15*00 

14 75 

16-50 

i'mJdj (Medium) Nagranal 

Champadanga 


12-50 

12 62 

12*02 

12*00 

12*44 

12 75 

15*30 

Paddy (Medium) J hi nga«ttl 

Bnli Dowanganj 


12-75 

12-50 

13 00 

12 50 

12 09 

12 88 

15 35 


Kalipore 


12-50 

2 25 

12*59 

12 26 

12 37 

12 55 

14 25 

p«dd\ (Medium) Dudkalam 

Bali Dowanganj 

*» 

13 00 

12-02 

12 25 

12 02 

12 02 

13 00 

15*67 


Kalipore 


12 75 

12*50 

12*76 

12 50 

12 02 

12 00 

14 43 

paddy (Coarae) Qardhan 

Champadanga 


12-00 

12 12 

12*12 

11*76 

12 00 

N.S. 

1 4 00 

Paddy (Coarae) Garh 

Bali 1 hnvaiignnj 

.. 

12*50 

12*12 

12 12 

12 26 

12 26 

12 41 

14 25 


Kalipore 


12 25 

12 *00 

12 00 

12 00 

12 00 

12-22 

13 64 

Kiee (Kino) Dudkalam 

( diampadunga 


23-00 

23 215 

23*25 

23 00 

23 12 

33 (10 

20 ■ 00 

Ku c (Fine) Sitasal 

Bali Dowanganj 

ft 

24-50 

24-50 

23 *00 

24-60 

24-12 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Kalipoio 


23-25 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

23 25 

N.S. 

24*05 

ih<-e ^ Medium) Nagraaal 

Cliampadanga 

»• 

22 • 50 

22*87 

22 87 

22*00 

22*60 

22*87 

24*00 

u.. e (.Medium) Jhingusal 

Bali Dowanganj 

99 

22-00 

21*75 

21 0(1 

21-75 

21*02 

20 86 

23-75 


Kalipore 


21 *50 

21*50 

21 50 

22*00 

21 02 

20 50 

22 96 

Ku-e (Mod mm) Dudkalam 

Bali Dowanganj 


22 25 

22-00 

21*75 

22 00 

22 00 

20*72 

23 it 2 


Kalipore 

» 

21-75 

21*75 

21 60 

22 • 00 

21 76 

20 • 55 

23 17 

iiieo (( oaiMo) Gam hid 

Cliampadanga 


21-50 

21-76 

21*75 

N.S. 

21 06 

N S. 

23 00 

ltieo (Coaiho) Garh 

Bali Dowanganj . . 

» 

21 00 

21 00 

21*00 

20*50 

20-87 

19-02 

22 66 


Kalipore 


20 *50 

20-50 

20*00 

20 00 

20 26 

19 05 

21 72 

Pulses ( It hole). 










'Umn ( Big) 

Shooraphuli 

Md. 

N.S. 

I 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

20 00 

Mumut (Small) 

Ditto 

" 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S 

I S 00 

Guhiii (KIi&n, Big) 

Ditto 

.. 

22 50 

22*50 

22*00 

22*00 

22 26 

22*00 

:3 00 

Muhiii (Khan, Small) 

Ditto 

s t 

20-00 

20*00 

19-75 

20 00 

19 94 

19 60 

20 00 

(Khari, Big) 

Malliok Kaaom l£ul 

ft 

24-00 

24-00 

23*75 

23*00 

23 08 

23 2lJ 

23 10 

'.imh (Kluin, Small) 

i 

I htto 


22-00 

22*00 

21*75 

21-00 

21-08 

20*90 

21-10 

'• *mt (Hi K ; 

Shooraphuli 

» 

20 00 

20*00 

19*00 

18*00 

19*..) 

19*30 

10-20 

‘Irani (Small) 

Ditto 

•• 

1700 

17*00 

17-00 

17 00 

J 7 00 

15 75 

15-00 

Pulses (Split) 









. 

Mttiiur (Big) 

Shooraphuli 

Md. 

22-00 

22*00 

19*75 

19*50 

20-81 

19 90 

22*00 

Sl «ur (Small) 

Ditto 

,, 

19*60 

19*50 

19*00 

19*00 

19-25 

19 00 

20*00 

Und (BIrf) 

Ditto 

•• 

27*50 

26-50 

29*50 

28 00 

27-87 

27*25 

24*80 











40 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


Wholesale prices H006HLY — contd . October 1961 


Commodity, 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated - 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

mouth’s 

average. 

A vorap,. fJ , 
Octol* r 

I860. ‘ 

7th 

14th 

21st 

28th 






Rh. ilP. 

Rh. nP. 



Rh. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Rs. 

Pulse* (Split) — conoid. 












Und (Small) 


Sho«*mphuli 


Md. 

20*00 

25-00 


26-00 

20-87 

2010 

22 80 

Gram (Big) 


Ditto 


f 1 

20*00 

20*00 

19*75 

19-00 

19-68 

20 00 

20-00 

Gram (Small) 


Ditto 

• • 

•• 

19 00 

19-00 

19 -00 

18 00 

18-75 

19 20 

18 00 

Gram (Big) 


Mulln-k KaHom JCat 


23 00 

23 00 

22*75 

22*50 

22 81 

21-00 

22-90 

Gram (Small) 


Ditto 


" 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Urid (Big) 


Ditto 


9 9 

28-00 

2 s- 00 

27*75 

28-50 

2S-06 

27-80 

N.S. 

Urid (Small) 


Ditto 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

NS 

Arhar (Hi*/) 


Sheet raphuh 


9 9 

26 00 

26-00 

26*00 

22*50 

25-12 

26 25 

24 80 

Arliur (Small) 


Ditto 



23-50 

23-60 

22-00 

22-00 

22-75 

22-50 

22 80 

Khesari (Big) 


Ditto 



15-60 

15-00 

16-00 

15*50 

15 50 

16 10 

17 80 

Khesari (Small) 


Ditto 

•• 


14 50 

14 00 

15-00 

14*50 

14 50 

14*00 

I'* 40 

Khesari (Big) 


Malliek Ivosom Hat 

M 

IK -00 

18-80 

17-75 

16-50 

17-50 

16*60 

15 90 

Khesari (Small) 


1 M tto 

• • 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Spirt's. 












Onion (Bombay) 

•• 

Sheoraphuli 


Md, 

18 00 

20 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

19-00 

17 60 

8 90 

Onion (Patnai) 

•• 

Ditto 

•• 

ft 

18-00 

20 00 

18 -00 

21-00 

19-76 

12-85 

8 * 90 

Onion (Deshi) 

" 

Ditto 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

7 *00 

Potato and Vegetable s. 










- 


Potato (Nft ini tal) . . 


Sheoraplmli 


Md. 

29-00 

30-00 

29-00 

24 00 

28-00 

25 10 

17*20 



Champadanga 



28*00 

29 00 

28-00 

23-75 

27-19 

24-60 

17* 60 

Potato (Rangoon) . . 


Sliooraphiili 


» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

17*20 



Champndangu 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

17*00 

Sweet Potatcf 

.. 

Sheoraphuli 



N.S. 

N.S. 

14*00 

16-00 

14-50 

N.S. 

7-40 



( Champadanga 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14-00 

15-00 

14-50 

N.S. 

o • or* 

Brinjal (Round) 


Sheoraphuli 


99 

25 *00 

25-00 

23 00 

20 00 

23-25 

i9-og 

18-20 

Brinjal (Kuli) 

•• 

Ditto 


99 

22*00 

24-00 

N.S. 

18 00 

21 33 

17-40 

15-60 

BittergOurd (Karela) 

•• 

Ditto 


99 

23-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

23-00 

23-80 

N.S. 

do (Uehohha) 

•• 

Ditto 


99 

23 00 

28-00 

38*00 

28 -00 

29-00 

N.S. 

N.S- 

Vindi 


Ditto 


99 

23*00 

26*00 

28-00 

20-00 


18*80 

N.S. 

Patal 


Ditto 

. 

99 

30-00 

25-00 

o 

o 

s-l 

25-00 

30-50 

23*00 

30 50 

Sweet Fumpkin 

•• 

1 )itto 


100 

60-00 

62-00 

65-00 

60-00 

01-75 

56-00 

59-00 












SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


41 


tioles al e prices HOOGHLY— corad. October 1961 


Commodity. 

Name of Markot. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — * 

Monthly 

Last 

month's 

Averago oi 
Ootobor, 




7th 

J 4th 

21st 

28th 

average. 

average. 

1960. 





Rs. ul\ 

Kb. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

its. nP. 

Ka. nP. 

Kh. nP. 

Kh. ill*. 

Fruits. 











gftiw (Ohoinpa) 

Sheoraphuli 

•• 

1 1 Pen. 

1-75 

2*00 

2 00 

2 00 

1 69 

1*96 

2*00 

(KothaU) 

Ditto 

•• 

M 

200 

2*25 

2*50 

2*50 

2*19 

2* 19 

3*10 

folk and Milk Products , 











i (Cow) 

Seram pore 

•• 

Md. 

35 00 

40 *00 

40 00 

40 00 

38*76 

35 00 

35*00 

Hu (Buffalo) - • • • 

Ditto 

.. 

»* 

40 *00 

45 *00 

46*00 

45 00 

43 75 

40*00 

40 00 


Ckinaurah 

. . 

it 

36 00 

36 00 

36 00 

36 00 

36 *00 

36 00 

86 00 

luuia (Skimmed) 

Serampore 

•- 

M 

45*00 

66 *00 

88*00 

61 00 

62 50 

46*05 

08 80 

Egg*. 











n Egg (ungraded) 

Pandua llat 


100 

16*00 

16*00 

1(> 00 

16 00 

16 00 

10 50 

13*10 

A Egg (ungraded) 

Ditto 

•• 

>• 

16-26 

16 *00 

16 00 

10 00 

10 00 

16*66 

14*20 

Poultry . 











vl (live weight 1 »r.) 

Pandua Hat 

• • 

Each 

4*00 

4*00 

4 60 

4 00 

4 12 

4 00 

2*90 

:k (live weight 2 htb.) 

Ditto 

•• 


4 00 

3 60 

4 00 

3 60 

3*75 

3*80 

4*66 

Milch Cattle. 











v (milk yield \ nr. a day) 

Mayaporo 

.. 

Each 

55 00 

55*00 

55*00 

62 *00 

54*26 

64 00 

40*00 

* (milk yield l nr. a day) 

Ditto 

• • 

» 

95*00 

95*00 

95 00 

95 00 

95 00 

96 00 

80 *00 

i (milk yield 1 & m*h. a day) . . 

Ditto 

• • 


145 00 

145*00 

145 00 

140 00 

143 75 

J45 00 

120 00 

v (milk yield 1 er. a day) 

Paiidua Hat 

•• 

M 

100* 00 

120*00 

115 00 

120*00 

113 75 

95*00 

71*66 

Sheep and Goat. 











it (live weight 7 ars.) 

Pandua Hat 

• • 

Each 

23*00 

24 00 

25 00 

23*00 

23 76 

23 20 

16*70 

it (live weight 10 sra.) 

Mayapore 


ft 

25 00 

25*00 

25*00 

25*00 

25 00 

26 *00 

20*00 

Oil. 











Btard 

Sheoraphuli 


Md. 

84*50 

85 00 

85 00 

88 00 

85*62 

84*90 

t 82 80 

Oil cakes . 











atard 

Sheoraphuli 


Md. 

12 50 

12*50 

12 50 

1 2 76 

12 *50 

11 75 

12 60 

Jtor 

Ditto 


„ 

10 00 

10*00 

10 50 

10 50 

10 25 

14 00 

11*00 

>und nut 

Ditto 

. . 


14*00 

14 00 

14-00 

14*00 

14 00 

10 30 

13 00 

fltard 

Mallick Kaaem Hat 

1 9 

12*60 

12*76 

13 25 

14*00 

13 12 

12 35 

12*86 

lived 

Ditto 


„ 

14*75 

16 00 

13 50 

10*26 

14 90 

14*65 

13 55 

°'iudnut, 

Ditto 

•• 

II 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14*26 

14*25 

N.S. 

14*20 











ST I’PLKMEXT TO TIIK OAT, COTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 




Wholesale prices HOOGHLY — concld. October u 








1 




Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month’s 

Averaj 

fkitolj 

ioe«! 


7th 

14th 

21st 

28th 


average. 




Kb. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Rb. iiP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Rb. nl’. 

He. 

Cattle Codder. 










Paddy r,trttw — 

Mai lick Kauuxn Hat, 

Kalian 
of 10 
mds. 

44-00 

40 00 

35-00 

36 00 

38 50 

42-40 

M 

Fibers. 










Jute . . 

Klieoruphuli 

Md. 

37 -r>o 

32 -50 

35 00 

35-00 

35 00 

38 50 

P 


('li am pad ang a 

M 

37-25 

32 00 

31 50 

34 50 

34 00 

37 85 

4; 

Mooia 

Sheet nphuli 


33 00 

30-00 

32-00 

20-00 

31 00 

35 00 

4. 


('1mm pad an*.' a 

» 

32-50 

N.S. 

N.S. 

20-00 

30-75 

34 75 

•1! 

Sunlamp 

Nluumiphuli 

- 

3« -00 

35 -00 

38 00 

38-00 

37 25 

41 00 

5* 

M isc ‘lluneoun. 










Cur (.*111101 

Kheoraplmli 

Md. 

23-00 

23 00 

25 00 

23-00 

23-50 

23 50 

-■ 









SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


43 


Wholesale prices 


NADIA 


October 1961 



Commodity. 

Name of Market . 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated - 

Mont lily 
a\ eiugr. 

Last 

month’s 

average. 

Average of 
Octohor, 
1960. 


7th 

1 4th 

21st. 

2Sth 




Kk. nP. 

Kh. nP. 

Kh. nP. 

Kh. nP. 

Kh. ill’. 

Kh nP 

Kh. nl\ 


Cereals . 










(fine) Amau 

Plassoy (V) 

Bid. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Prtddy (medium) „ 

Ditto 

•* 

13 00 

12-75 

12-75 

12-60 

12-75 

12* 10 

13-25 

paddy (coarse) 

Ditto 

99 

12-00 

12-00 

12-00 

11 75 

11-94 

11*20 

13-00 

K,po (lino) Jhingasal 

Krislmagar 

»» 

84-20 

24-25 

24-25 

24-25 

24 • 25 

23 85 

27-00 



Kanaghat 

ir 

25 00 

24-50 

24-00 

24 00 

24 37 

24 00 

20-40 

'llicu (medium) Dudkalam 

Krishnagur 

99 

22*50 

22-50 

22 50 

22 50 

22 50 

22-10 

25 50 



Kanaghat 


23-00 

23-00 

23 00 

23 00 

23 00 

22 00 

34 1)5 

Kioo (coarse) Jali 

Krishnagar 

M 

10-50 

10-50 

19-50 

19 50 

19 50 

19 15 

23 00 



Kunaghat 

• » 

21-00 

21-00 

21-50 

21 50 

21-25 

20 85 

22 30 


Fulse-s (whole). 











lW »r Deshi (small) 

Plassey (P) 

Md. 

11 75 

12-50 

12 75 

14-00 

12 75 

11 so 

15 00 



Kanaghat 


12-50 

12-25 

12-00 

12 50 

12-31 

11 45 

15 25 

t’riil ,, 

Plassoy (P) 

99 

19 DO 

19-50 

19 50 

22 00 

20 12 

19 40 

18-20 



Kanaghat 

99 

10 00 

19-00 

19 00 

20 00 

19-25 

19-40 

17-55 

Irani „ * . 

Plassoy (P) 

99 

14 25 

14-37 

16 00 

15 00 

14-05 

14-25 

15-00 



Kanaghat 

1 

99 

13-50 

14 25 

14 25 

11 50 

14 12 

14-20 

15 05 

Malar „ 

Plassoy (P) 

99 

13 00 

14 00 

14 00 

14 00 

13 75 

11*95 

12*65 



Santipur 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Arliar M 

Plassoy (P) 

99 

14 25 

14-00 

14 00 

15-00 

14-31 

14-25 

13-20 



Kanaghat 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Kheeari lr 

Plassoy (P) 

99 

9*00 

10-00 

10-00 

10-50 

9* 87 

9-20 

9*60 



Kanaghat 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Vegetables. 










Green papaya (Local) 

Chakdah(P) 

Md. 

6-00 

6-00 

6-00 

6-25 

0-06 

6-75 

N.S. 

Sweet pumpkin (Local) 

H&ringhata 

100 

N.S. 

N,S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

45*60 

48-00 


Oilseeds. 











Lnmf*f*f| Deghi 

Plassoy (P) 

Md. 

27-00 

25 00 

25 00 

24-00 

25 25 

26 25 

23-00 

^uBtord „ 

Plaasey (P) 

99 

31-00 

30-00 

30-00 

28-00 

29 75 

30-25 

28-00 



Kanaghat 

99 

30-50 

31-00 

30 50 

32 00 

31 00 

30 70 

27 02 


Fibre. 











^(gareat) 

i’Irkfmm (P) 

Md. 

35 00 

30*00 

30-00 

31-50 

34*02 

35-10 

41 50 



Rnriiurhiit 

.. 

33-00 

34-00 

33 00 

31 -50 

32 * 87 

3 1 - SO 

40-80 



Chftkdah (V) 

" 

33-00 

3100 

32*50 

32*50 

33-00 

34-80 

40-90 


44 


SUITLTMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


Wholesale prices MURSHIDABAD ^ 


(Commodity. 



Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 

month's 

III 




7th 

14th 

2 1st 

28th 

average. 

average. 

JHIO. 





Ra. nP. 

[is. nP. 

[ia. nP. 

[la. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Pa. 

Cereals . 











Paddy (Aman) .. 

Lai bag It 


Md. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

.Jiaganj 

. . 

»♦ 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


1 )bulian 

. . 

»* 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Paddy (medium) » 

Lalbugh 

• • 

99 

13-60 

13 60 

13-50 

13-60 

13-60 

13 10 

N.S. 

.J iaganj 

. . 

99 

13-50 

13 50 

13-50 

13-50 

13 60 

13-36 

N.S. 


Dhulian 


»» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Paddy (eoarae) m 

Lalbugh 


ft 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Jiuganj 

• . 

9 9 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Dhulian 

. . 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Rico (lino) (Bhaairuanik) .. 

Borhainpoie 


99 

23-75 

23-75 

23 75 

23 76 

23-75 

23 75 

26 7; 

Lalbugh 



25-00 

26-00 

26-00 

25-00 

25 -00 

26 -00 

27 11 


Kandi 



22-60 

22 60 

22 -50 

22 50 

22 -50 

22 00 

2*1 U( 

Hioe (medium) (Iianikalma) • - 

Borhainpoie 



22-50 

22-60 

22 -50 

22 26 

22 -44 

22 50 

24 i.( 


Lalbugh 

. • 

99 

23-00 

23 00 

23 -00 

23 00 

23 00 

23 00 

2 j 01 


Kandi 

. . 

»♦ 

21-25 

21 26 

21 -00 

21-00 

21 12 

20 40 

23 3 

Kioe (coarse) (Nona) 

Borhamporo 



20-60 

20-60 

21 -00 

20-00 

20-50 

20-50 j 

22 ij 1 


Lalbugh 


M 

20-00 

21 00 

20 -00 

20*00 

20-25 

10 90 

20 0 


Kand i 


99 

20-26 

20 25 

20 00 

20-00 

20*12 

19 45 

22 4 

Whoat (Tuily) 

Jiaganj 


ft 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

WJioat (Gangajali) 

Dhulian 


M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Harley (Deahi) 

Jiaganj 

•• 

?♦ 

N.S, 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Dhulian 

•• 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S 

Pulses (whole) . 











Masur Deshi (Small) 

Boldanga 

•• 

Md. 

11-00 

11-00 

11-00 

11 00 

11-00 

10-80 

13 


Jiaganj 



12-00 

12-00 

12-00 

12 00 

12 00 

11-40 

16*( 


Dhulian 


99 

12-00 

1200 

12-50 

N.S. 

12-16 

12-00 

i2 : 

Urid Desh* (Small) 

Boldanga 

•• 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S 


Jiaganj 

.. 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S 


Dhulian 


,, 

17-60 

N.S. 

18-00 

19*00 

18-16 

17-60 

Ij 

Gram Deelii (Small) 

Boldanga 


M 

13 60 

13-50 

13-50 

13 50 

13-50 

13-46 

N.S 


Jiaganj 


If 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

15* 


Dhulian 

. . 

ff 

14 -60 

1 

N.S. 

14-75 

14-76 

14-87 

10- 

Matar Deshi (Small) 

Boldanga 


99 

10-60 

IHK 

10-50 

10*50 

10-50 

10-10 

N.l 

i 13 


.J laganj 


99 

13-00 

1 

13 00 

i 13*00 

i 13 00 

12-20 


\ ihulinn 


” 

11-00 

K 

14-25 

12-00 

i 12-31 

10-34 

10 - 











SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


Dolesale prices 


Commodity* 


MUR8HIDABAD — contd. 


Ntime of Market. 


Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
tinted — 


7th Hth 21th 28th 


October 1961 


Last Average of 
Monthly month’s October, 
average. average. 1000. 


Kh. nr. R«. nP. Rh. iiP. Rh. nP. Rb. nP. R*. nl*. R* nP. 


I ‘nines (whole) — conoid. 
iWn (Small) 


Beldanga 
J laganj 


13*50 13 50 13 00 13*00 

14 50 14*50 14*50 N.S. 


12*50 N.S. 


N.S. N.S. 


i Deahi (Small) 


Beldanga 

Jiaganj 

Dhulian 


9-50 9-50 10*00 10*00 
9 00 9 00 10*00 11*00 
10*00 10*00 10*25 10*50 


mon (Doehi) (Small) 
urmenc (Doshi) 


Lalgola 


12*00 12*00 12*00 12*00 12*00 11-00 13*80 

47*50 48*00 48*00 48*00 47*87 47*00 40*33 


(Ungraded) 


. . Lalgola 


1,000 140*00 137*50 137*50 137 50 13812 139*00 118-00 


Poultry. 
i (hvo wt. 14 ch.) 


. . I Lalgola 


Each 2*37 2*37 2 37 2 37 2 37 2 31 1 75 


Potato & Vegetables. 
otato (Doahi-red) 

[whu (Local) 


Md. * N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. 12 *00 

J 7 *25 7 75 7*00 0*50 7 *12 7 95 N.S. 


Milch Cattle . 

(milk yielding 2 Mrs a day) Beldanga 


Each 170 00 170*00 170*00 1 70 00 170 00 H58 00 172*00 


Sheep arid Goat. 
■>'*>(> (live wt. 10 srs.) 
(live Wt. 12 HTR.) 


Beldanga 


Each 30*00 30*00 30 00 30 00 

20*00 20*00 25-00 20*00 


28-40 28*40 

25 20 22*00 


***1 (Doshi) 

Js huil (Doshi) 


Jiaganj 


Mil. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. 

„ N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. 


N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. 


N.S. N.S. 


u; 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 



SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1%2 


4' 


Resale prices BURDWAN October 1961 


(Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Uni! . 

(’oiled ion week a ended Saturday, 
dated 

Mont lily 

Last 

1 unlit Ii’b 

Average «d 
( >d ohor, 




7th 

14th 

21st 

28m 

av oingo. 

average. 

1000. 





Ra. ill*. 

Ra. nl*. 

Rh. nl*. 

Ra. nl*. 

IN. nl*. 

IN. nl’. 

Um. nl*. 

Cereals, 











^lv (nmdmin) Raima 

Burdwan (J > ) 


Md 

13 75 

13 50 

13 50 

13 50 

13 50 

13-70 

14 35 


Nadaiigluit (P) 


i » 

13 35 

13 10 

N.N. 

13-32 

13 25 

13 -05 

13 00 


Gualikara (P) 



13 -50 

1 3 25 

N.K. 

1 3 -25 

13 33 

13-45 

14 -20 

1( ,,.((iu«>) Jhingttflttl 

lv tibia . . 


,, 

24-50 

24 *50 

24 50 

24 -00 

24 -37 

23- 55 

25 05 

l ici-(m ,, dmni) Kiilraa 

Ditto 


.. 

24 00 

24 00 

24 00 

23 -50 

23 87 

23 05 

i!4 00 


Burdwan 



23 37 

23 25 

23 02 

23 -25 

23 37 

23 -05 

21 40 


UuBlikn ra 


,, 

23 12 

23 -00 

N.K. 

23 00 

23 • 04 

22 - 80 

24 -25 

ticc* (courHO) D/lIuaked 

Kulna 



N.K. 

N.K. 

N.K. 

21-00 

21 00 

N.K. 

10 02 

Pulses (whole). 











ung (ordinaiy) 

Burdwan 


Md. 

22-00 

22 -00 

25-00 

25-00 

23 50 

22 -00 

N.K. 

rid (bi«) 

Asanaol 


M 

20 00 

*20-50 

20 50 

22-00 

20-75 

20 40 

23 00 

rid (small) 

Raniganj 



is oo 

18 00 

18-00 

21 00 

18 75 

10 -00 

1 0 50 

ram (big) 

Ivalna 



2100 

22-00 

22-00 

21-00 

21 -50 

21 -10 

lit 50 


Momari 


,, 

17-00 

17-00 

18-00 

10-25 

17-14 

17-30 

17 00 


Raniganj 


, , 

15 75 

15 75 

15 -75 

10*50 

15 -04 

15-05 

17-00 

ram (small) 

Kalna 


.. 

18-00 

18 00 

17*50 

18-00 

17-87 

18-30 

10 00 

lular (big) 

Burdwan 



10 00 

1 0 • 00 

17-00 

18-00 

10-75 

N.K. 

N.K. 

[star (small) 

Raniganj 



1200 

12 00 

12 -00 

12 -00 

12 -00 

11-00 

16-00 

rhar(big) 

Burdwan 


.. 

14-00 

14-00 

10-00 

10-00 

15-00 

11 45 

N.K. 

ix'Hnri(big) 

Raniganj 



12-50 

! 

12 50 

12-50 

1 1 -50 

12 25 

11-20 

1 1 -00 

Pulses (Split). 











ung (ordinary ) 

Momari 


Md. 

28 -00 

28 -00 

N.K. 

20 00 

27 -33 

27 35 

28 00 

asur (bi K ) 

Ditto 


,, 

21 -00 

24 -00 

N.K. 

20 00 

22 *00 

22 05 

22 00 


AnanHol 



20 -00 

20 00 

20 -00 

20 -50 

20 -37 

20 00 

22 00 


Raniganj 



lit -00 

10 -00 

10 -00 

21 00 

10 50 

20-00 

21 50 

• 

^ur (small ) 

Burdwan 


, , 

22 00 

22 on 

20 -00 

20 00 

21 -00 

21 30 

22-70 


AhhhuhoI 



N.K. 

i 

N.K. 

N.K. 

N.K. 

N.K. 

N.K. 

20 00 


Momari 


•• 

22 50 

22 50 

N.K. 

10 00 

21 -33 

21 1 0 

22-20 

^ < h, R) 

Ditto 


.. 

28 00 

28 00 

N.K. 

27 GO 

27 83 

27 -00 

21 It) 

^ (small) 

Burdwan 


, , 

27-50 

27 • 50 

27-00 

27-00 

27 25 

27-45 

23-00 

r «'W bi K ) 

Momari 



22 00 

22 00 

N.K. 

21 00 

21 on 

21 10 

20 HO 

***“ (wnall) 

Burdwan 


l ” 

20 -50 

20 50 

10-50 

10-50 

20 -00 

20 15 

10-70 




SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


48 


Wholesale prices BURDWAN— cmid. October 19 


( 'oiumoiiity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 
mon til’s 

Av t*»V 

Octol*, 




7th 

14th 

21st 

28th 

average. 

average. 

1 080. 





Rs. nl\ 

Rh. ill*. 

Rs. 11 P. 

Rk. nl\ 

Urt. III'. 

Rs. nl\ 

•• id' 

Pulses (Split) — ooncld. 











Arahar (small) 

A Hansel 


Md. 

10 25 

10-25 

10-26 

N.S. 

16 25 

17-10 

20-n 

Khoshari (big) 

Bnrdwan 



17 00 

17-00 

18-00 

18 00 

17 f.0 

17-30 

U-j 

Khoshari (small) . . 

Kaiugan j 


•• 

14 00 

14-00 

14-00 

13 00 

13 75 

12-60 

VS 

Spices. 











Onion (doshi) 

Kalna . . 


Md. 

18 -00 

17 -50 

17 00 

18 50 

17 75 

14 60 

11-90 


1 lord wan 



13-00 

13 00 

18-00 

18 -00 

15 50 

12 80 

9-411 

ChillioH (dry. patnni) 

Katwa 


- 

90-00 

90 00 

100 00 

94 00 

96 50 

101 -00 

!«I-UU 


A«aiuiol 


.. 

95-00 

95-0(1 

95 -00 

96-00 

95 -00 

95 00 

HO *00 


Bnrdwan 


- 

98-00 

98 00 

98 00 

98 -00 

98-00 

98 -00 

102-20 

Potato and Vegetables. 











Potato (Nainital) . . 

ASftllHol 


Md. 

24 00 

24 00 

26 00 

26-00 

25 00 

23 *60 



Bunt wan 


*> 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

17 HI 

Swooi Potato • . • • 

Katwa 


>• 

N.S. 

N.S. 

18-00 

N.S. 

18 00 

N.S. 

S till 


Asansol 


M 

1200 

12 00 

8-00 

8-00 

10 00 

12 -60 

12 Id 


Dalui bazar 


M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12-50 

Brinjal • • • • 

Katwa 

•• 

1* 

NS. 

N.S 

16 00 

9-00 

12-50 

N.S. 

1 

R iiO 


Asansol 


II 

19 00 

22 00 

26 -00 

20 00 

23 25 

19 00 ! 

22 Tv 


Daluihazai 


f * 

17-00 

17 -00 

N.S. 

18 00 

17 33 

16-60 

IT Ml 

Bittergourd 

AsanBol 


II 

19-00 

19 -00 

19-00 

19-00 

19 00 

18-20 

L» tiO 

Chillies (green) 

Katwa 


t» 

27-50 

27 50 

31 00 

42 00 

32 12 

22-60 

■11 6u 


Asansol 

•• 

II 

25-00 

24-00 

24 00 

24-00 

24 25 

25-60 

21! uO 


Dale ibnzar 

•• 

.. 

92 • 00 

34 50 

N.S. 

36 00 

34-50 

29 -20 

as oo 

Gromi Plantain • . 

Asansol 

•• 

100 

6 00 

6 00 

6 00 

6 00 

6 00 

6 10 

4- »o ' 


1 >aiuiba/ar 

•* 


5 00 

5 00 

N.S. 

6 00 

5 00 

G 00 

4 111 

Prints ( fresh). 











Banana (Champa) . . 

A «a oho 1 


100 

3 12 

3 12 

3 12 

1 

3 12 

3 12 

3 12 

A 1»& 


Bnrdwan 


.. 

3 00 

4-00 

4-00 

4 00 

3 25 

3-00 

3 (HI 

Orange (Nagpur) 

Ah annul 


It 

10 00 

16-00 

1600 

16 00 

16 -00 

16-00 

21 ;il 


Bnrdwan 



18-00 

20-00 

16-00 

16-00 

17 50 

18-00 

In Id 

Cnooanut (green) 

Ditto 


- 

22 00 

22-00 

25-00 

22 00 

22 75 

25 00 

20 ,r' 


Katwa 


•• 

21 -00 

21 00 

22 50 

22 50 

21 75 

21 00 

22 40 

Fruits (Pry). 











Oocoaniit (with Bholl) 

1 turd wan 


100 

38 00 

38-00 

35 00 

35 00 

36 50 

37 00 

:ii 40 


AaaiiHol 


• f 

35-00 

35 -00 

35-00 

35 00 

35 -00 

35(H) 

35 no 















SUPPLEMENT TO TIIE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


'19 


Resale prices BUR D WAN — contd. October 1961 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated— 

Monthly 

Last 

month's 

Average of 
Octohor, 





7th 

14 th 

m 

28 th 

average. 

average. 

1 960. 

Egg ft. 




lis. III*. 

Kh. nP. 

It H. III’. 

Kh. nP. 

Us. nl\ 

Its. 111 ’. 

Hh U\ 

(graded) 

Burdwan 


100 

15 00 

15*00 

15 00 

15 00 

15 00 

15 *20 

14*40 

(ungraded) 

Ditto 



11 75 

14 -76 

11 75 

14 76 

14 *75 

14 95 

14 *15 


AsaiiBol 



17 00 

17 00 

17 00 

17 *00 

17 00 

18*00 

10 20 


tiiishkara 



14 -50 

14 -50 

14 GO 

14 50 

14 *50 

14 70 

13 99 

j. I^r i^mcif'd) 

Hurd wan 


.» 

14-50 

13 GO 

13 GO 

13 60 

13 75 

15 -00 

14 *00 

k ).>•» (ungraded) •• 

Ditto 


t9 

14 -25 

13*25 

13 25 

13 25 

13 50 

14 75 

13 75 


AHanfiol 


.. 

18 00 

18 00 

18-00 

18 00 

18. 00 

19 00 

18*00 

Poultry, 

Oushkara 



14 00 

13 00 

13 -00 

13 00 

13 *25 

14 50 

13 50 

! ;!ivo weight) .. 

Domohani 


1 DO lba. 

115-00 

115 00 

115 -00 

115 *00 

115*00 

116 *60 

155 *00 

k (hvo woiglit) . . 

Ditto 


>» 

no oo 

110 00 

110*00 

110*06 

no oo 

110*00 

115-00 

ikon (live weight) 

Ditto 



100 -00 

160 00 

160 *00 

100 *00 

loo oo 

100*00 

105 *00 

Mtlk and Milk Product*. 











(I'uW) 

Kalrm 


Md. 

28 -00 

28 00 

30 *00 

28 *00 

28-50 

28-00 

28 *06 


Katwa 


f f 

20 00 

20 *00 

22 *50 

22 *50 

21 *25 

20 *00 

22 00 


Kurd wan 


»* 

30*00 

30 00 

30 -00 

30 *00 

30 *00 

30-00 

30 *00 

tHuftalo) 

Knlnu 


P 9 

38 -00 

38 -00 

38 *00 

38 *00 

38 -(H) 

38 *00 

35 *00 


Asansol 


ft 

36 *00 

35 *00 

35 *00 

35 *00 

35 *00 

35 *66 

35 *00 


Burdwan 

• • 

M 

35 *00 

35-00 

35 00 

35-00 

35.00 

35*00 

36*00 

mm (unskimmed) 

Ditto 


M 

50 *00 

GO *00 

00 *00 

00 *00 

59 *00 

58 *20 

80 -20 

Fi*h. 

Katwa 


»♦ 

100 00 

100 *00 

135 *00 

130 *00 | 

110*25 

100*00 

09 00 

t» • . • . 

Kalna 


Md. 

120 00 

125 *00 

125*00 

125 *00 

123 75 

116*00 

103*00 


Katwa 


»» 

105*00 

100*00 

102*50 

110*00 

119*37 

123*00 

N.S. 


Burdwan 


»» 

108 *00 

105 *00 

110*00 

110*00 

108 25 

114 *20 

100 *00 

. .. 

Kalna 


M 

125 *00 

135 *00 

130 *00 

130*00 

130 *00 

120 *00 

109 *00 


Katwa 


9P 

120*00 

125*00 

170*00 

145*00 

140 00 

140*00 

N.S. 


Burdwan 


ft 

110 *00 

1 10 00 

115*00 

115 *00 

112 *50 

no 20 

102 00 

Sheep and Goat , 











t (live weight. 10 sra.) 

Bomohani 


Bach 

23 *00 

23 00 

23 *00 

23 *00 

23 00 

23 *00 

# 21 *00 


Pachimdi 

• • 

M 

23 *50 

23 *50 

2D *00 

20 *00 

24-25 

23 50 

20 -no 

‘ n (live weight 12 ara.) 

Domohani 


» 

22 *00 

22 *00 

22 *00 

22 *00 

22 00 

22 *00 

22*00 


Pachundi 


•* 

23*50 

23*50 

24*50 

24*50 

24*00 

23*50 

N.S. 

Milch Cattle, 





i 






’ iicillt yielding 1 Hr. daily) . . 

Lalganj 


Each 

110*00 

110*00 

110*00 

1 10 *00 

110*06 

110*00 

112 00 


Pachundi 



100*00 

loo -oo 

102 *00 

100 *00 

100 *02 

102 50 

78 -(H) 

(milk yielding 3 era. daily) 

Lalganj 


ft 

250 *00 

250 *00 

260 *00 

250 *00 

250 00 

350 -00 

300 00 


Pachundi 


if 

N.S. 

N.S. 

225*00 

225*00 

225-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

— . 


















SUP PI, KM ENT TO THE CAEGTJTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


Ml 


Wholesale prices BURDWAN — concld. October 





Collection weeks onded Saturday, 


Kant 






dated — 



Avitji,,, 

Commodity. 

N amo of Markot. 

Unit. 





Monthly 

month’s 

(M(,L 


7th 

lull 

2 1 st 

28th 

average. 

average. 

KM, 






Its. Id’. 

Km. ill*. 

ID nP. 

Its. ill’. 

Ks nl\ 

ID. id * 

>’■ M 

Cattle fodder. 










1 uddy Btrmv 

Ktiiim 

Kaban 

of 

Hi Mde. 

35 on 

38 *00 

30*00 

38 *00 

35 *75 

32 So 

31 20 

:.i i 


Daluilm/.u 


28 oo 

28 00 

N.S. 

28 00 

28 OO 

M j 


Guahkara 


20 00 

29 00 

N.S. 

29 00 

29 00 

31 80 

M ( 

Oil. 










Mustard 

liurd wan 

Mil. 

88 50 

88 -50 

91 *50 

91 -50 

90 00 

89 10 

Rl ! 


Moniari 

99 

88*00 

88 *00 

N.S, 

91 *00 

89 *00 

88 40 

M < 


lianignnj 

M 

00 00 

90*00 

90 *00 

92 *00 

90 *50 

90 00 

80 v 

Oilcake. 










Mustard . . 

Curd wan 

Md. 

12*50 

12*25 

12 *25 

12 *37 

12 37 

12 *05 

1 J *uo 


M «man 

M 

12 00 

12 -00 

N.S. 

12*25 

12 *08 

11 *60 

1 1 :>;> 


Jtoniganj 

M 

11 *50 

11 *50 

11 50 

11*50 

1 1 -50 

11 50 

hi 70 

Tobacco. 










Motihari * • 

I turd wan 

Md. 

188-00 

190 -00 

170 00 

170*00 

179 50 

186 *00 

ISO (II) 


Katwa 

♦» 

200 00 

200 00 

225 00 

225 *00 

222 50 

175 -00 

i7o (in 


Kanigunj 

M 

150 *00 

150*00 

150*09 

150 *00 

150 00 

150 *00 

145 (i0 

Bidi 

Hurd wan 

M 

100*00 

160 00 

150 *00 

150 *00 

i55 00 i 

158*40 

n.:i mi 


AhjiuhoI 

*. 

200 *00 

200 *00 

200 *00 

200 *00 

200 -DO 

200 00 

i 

jin M- 

Fibre. 










luteT.M.TH. 

Knlrni 

Md. 

33 *50 ! 

32 50 

32*50 

32*50 

32-75 

35*70 

45 K' 


Kllt.WH . . 

t* 

33 ■ 50 

33*50 

34 00 

34 00 

33 75 

35 -00 

1 1 * *'*J 


Momtiri 

99 

35*00 

32*00 

N.S. 

31 00 

32-66 

28 * 00 

r- mi 

MifH'ellaneouft. 










Our (Bholi) 

Kalna 

Md. 

23 -00 

24 *00 

24 *00 

24 *00 

23 75 

26 00 

iw 


Bmiiganj 

t* 

19*00 

1 9 *00 

19 -00 

19 *00 

19 *00 

IS -20 

tii) 


Burdvan 

99 

21*25 

21 50 

20-50 

20 50 

20*94 

22 25 

J 9 H 

Gur (cane) 

Ditto 

M 

22*50 

22 *50 

23 *00 

23*00 

23 00 

22 *20 

L’li Gj 

t 

Kulna 

M 

24 *00 

24 *50 

25 *00 

23 *00 

24 *12 

22 -90 

.3 31 


Katwa 

ft 

19*56 

19*50 

19*00 

19*00 

19 *26 

17 20 

17 s i 

Gur (Oft wat Bnb) . . 

Curd wan 

ft 

6 00 

6 00 

5 00 

5-00 

5 50 

6-00 

12 

}mj’ovu>o<| (Common) 

Kabul 

.. 

2 12 

2*12 

2 *12 

2 *12 

2 *12 

«> . 12 



Burdwmi 

ft 

1*75 

1 50 

1 -50 

1 *60 

1 *50 

2 -35 

2 

Flattened ricH ••• 

Ditto 

ft 

28 *00 

28 *00 

28 *00 

28 00 

28 -00 

28 (10 

ri5 (« 


Uaniganj 

M 

24 -60 

24 *50 

24 50 

24 *50 

24 -50 

24 50 

31 1' 1 

Pm-chod Bice .. 

Curdwan 

»• 

30*00 

30 *00 

30*00 

30 Oo 

30 00 

:.o oo 

37 



KUlMH.lvMKNT TO THF, CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


Wholesale prices 


Commodity. 


BIRBHUM 


Namo of Market . 


Collection weokis ended Saturday, I 

i talc'd — • Kuat Average of 

U nit Monthly month's I Octolw. 

average. average. 

7 th 14th 2 1st 28tli 


October 1961 


Kh. uP. Kh III-. IIh. up. K-. III’. lit*, 'll* "*'• liH - 


p„ld> ((in") (Bwnful) 

^Ul> (medium) (Kahna) 

, iui( jy (coarwo) (Kindurmukhi) 
(fine) (Ramnal) 

^ (medium) (Kahna) 
jpo (ooiirwe) (Sindurinukhi) 


Mil. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. 

13.70 1350 1350 13-02 1350 1330 1315 

NS. N.S. NS N.S. N.S NS. N.S. 

N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S N.S. 

22 50 22 02 22*60 23 00 22 08 22-27 22-77 

N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. 


Pulses (whole). 


21-25 21 00 21 00 21-00 
10-00 10-25 10 12 10-00 


Pulses (split). 


lung (ordinary) 

Iahiir (big) 

Snuu (big) 

Irhar (big) 
denari (big) 


Saintbia 


28-50 29-00 20-25 20-00 
21-00 21-25 21-37 21-37 
23-50 23-25 23-00 23-25 
25-00 25-02 26-60 26-26 
14-25 14-00 14-12 14-12 


)ui(»n (Dcshi, round) 


Ruin purlin t< 


10-60 12-00 12-00 13-00 


Potato and vegetables. 
'otnto (dnshi, round) 

Innjal (dnshi) . , 

E ttbhftgo (dnshi) 
oinato (dnshi) 


RamjHirhat 


21-50 21-50 22-00 23-00 

15 00 15 00 13 00 12-00 

N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. 

N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. 


I n ectrfl 


12-00 1200 1200 12*00 

12-60 12-50 12-60 12*50 


Poultry. 
dive wt,. 1 er.) 
^ dive wt. 1 nr,) 


Cbatra bat 


2-7 6 2*75 2*75 

1-75 1*75 2-00 





SITIM’LKMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


BIRBHUM— concld. 


October 19^ 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection woeka ended Saturday, 
dated - 

Monthly 

average. 

Lost 

month's 

average. 

Average » 

1*160. 

7 th 

14th 

21st 

28th 




Rh. 11 ?. 

Rh. nP. 

Ka. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Rh. 11 P. 

Rm. nP. 

Rh. 

Milcli cult It'. 










Cow yielding 2 hes. of mill* h dnj 

Snmthiu 

10 noli 

185-00 

180*00 

180-00 

185-00 

182-50 

180-00 

1 So in 

Cuttle ftnlthr. 










Paddy straw 

Smnthia 

Rahim 

of 

42 00 

42-00 

42 00 

42-00 

42-00 

42-00 

.7} ii 



18 mds. 








Oil and oil cake , . 

! 









Mustard oil 

Sninthin 

Md. 

83 00 

85-00 

84-00 

85-00 

84-25 

83-80 

Rl-f 




12*00 

12-00 

12-00 

12-00 

12-00 

11 04 

11*4 

Mustard oil oakn . . 

Ditto 









Miscellaneous. 










Our (Volly) 

Sainthift 

Md. 

17-00 

17-00 

10-00 

10-00 

10-50 

lfi-20 

10 1 


Sl : I’l’I.KM i;\T T<> TIIK CAl.iTTTA iiA/1. II!, i‘>, 1%2 


r >3 


olesale prices BANKURA October 1961 


fominodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit . 

Collection weeks muled Saturday, 
dateil — 

Monthlj* 

average. 

lift 
i.iont liX 

■HP** 

Average of 
Oct >bm . 




7th 

Uth 

21st 

,sk, 


a*, era.je. 

1 SI ill. 





lia. nl'. 

lus nl J 

Uh. nP 

Kb. Ul\ 

Uh 111 1 

lib. n P 

Kb. III*. 

Cert- (lift. 











K Vmmi Sit-usa! (fine) 

Hank urn (P) 


i\ra. 

Id 50 

14 00 

14 00 

1 1 • 00 

11 10 

11 OO 

14 45' 


Viahntipur (P) 


.. 

14-00 

11-00 

14 00 

14 00 

14 oo 

1500 

1 1-50 


Kotulpur (P) 



N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S 

X.s 

N.S. 

n*~* 

\-nun Jhingasul (medium) 

Hank ura (P) 



13->(> 

15*o0 

15 0U 

15 00 

15 10 

15-oo 

1 2 s«* 


Viahnupur (P) 


„ 

l2*oo 

12*oo 

12 00 

12-00 

12-oo 

12*15 

15-50 


Kotulpur (P) 


•• 

1J *00 

12 *oo 

12*00 

12-00 

12-00 

N.S. 

15-50 

[ v Annul Nona (uourse) 

liunkuiM (l > ) 



12*50 

12*00 

12*00 

12*50 

12 25 

12 05 

12.00 


^ lalimijMif (P) 



N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

li S5 

15 00 


Kotulpur (P) 



N.S. 

\ 

N>. 

N.S 

N.S. 

11 Mi 

12 75 


1 »an , mu (P) 



X.s. 

X s. 

X s 

10-50 

10 .III 

X s 

0 75 


1 ’•i'-- 1 mijMii ( !') 



N.S. 

0 75 

0-50 

0-50 

0 5 S 

x.s 

0 57 


| r (»(ul|mi (1*) 



N.S 

0 • 50 

0 25 

0-25 

0-55 

N.S. 

0 01 • 

\mmii Siia-al (one) 

1 lankmv ( P) 



2t .>0 

2! 00 

2 l 00 

21 00 

21 1 2 

21 00 

2 1 *.)(» 


Vudumpur (!‘i 



25 oo 

25 ttO 

25 O' 

25 00 

23 00 

22 50 

25 SO 


Ivot iilpm ( 1 ') 


„ 

N.S 

N.S. 

N. t , 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

a.N. 

\» Mi t f lumus-.nl (medium) 

1 hiukur.i ( P) 


» 

22 oo 

2 00 

22 00 

22 0 1 

22 O0 

21 SO 

22 10 


VialmupiM ( r, 


„ 

- 1 -.0 

2 1 00 

21 oo 

21 00 

21 12 

20 70 

22 20 


Kotulpur { I*) 



21-' >0 

20 .»0 

20 50 

! 

20 7.> 

20 (>o 

20 3.) 

21-70 

v'M.m Nona (romne) 

Peinkuru (P) 


„ 

2) ;>o 

2! *00 

2. oo 

21 00 

21 12 

20 SO 

2o oo 


Vmlmupur (P) 



20 00 

20 00 

2o oo 

20 00 

20-00 

10 00 

21-15 


Kotulpui (P) 



‘0 00 

20*00 

20 oo 

20 00 

20 00 

10*00 

20*70 


Ikmturu 


.. 

X S. 

XX. 

x.s. 

10-00 

10 oo 

x.s. 

1 7 ■ S3 


Brduiupur 



\'.s. 

x.s. 

17-75 

IS 00 

17 s7 

x.s. 

17-75 


Kotulpur 



X.S. 

x.s 

17-uO 

i 7 • .>0 

17-50 

N.S. 

17- 12 

1 U t s (// ft 











-Mini (big) 

Haul lira 


Md. 

20 00 

10 5o 

20 oo 

20 00 

10 ^ 7 

10 S5 

» 

20-30 


Vifllmupur 


,, 

10-50 

20 25 

20 50 

2 1 • 50 

20- 1 » 

20*0.* 

2o* l.t 

"•Khun (htiuiII) 

Bankura 


M 

10-00 

10 00 

10-50 

10 00 

10 l 

n 05 

is 10 


Vishnu pur 



N.S. 

N.S. 

10 50 

x.s 

10-50 

10 50 

1 7 - 5( i 

f bll| (l»i|r> . . 

Hank urn 


J* 

20 (10 

20-00 

21 00 

20 00 

20-2. » 

10-00 | 

i S- !u 


Vishnupur 


ft 

20-25 

21-75 j 

21 75 

22 50 | 

| 21 50 | 

20 70 

10*0.* 

(small) 

Hank lira 


,, 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

j N.S. i 

1 N.S. j 

is-oo 

N.S. 



Vishnupur 


- 

N.S. | 

N.S. 

N S. ! 

21 50 | 

21*50 | 

I N.S. | 

! N.S. 



54 


Sl' IM’LKMUNT TO TIIE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


Wholesale prices BANKURA— contd. October i; 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Lant 
month ’h 

Hit; 




7th 

14th 

21st 

28th 

average. 

average. 

IOmi 

Pulses ( split. ), 




Kb. nP. 

Its. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rr. nP. 

Rb. ii P 

i;, 

Arahar ( Big) 

Bankura 


Md. 

20-00 

19-50 

N.S. 

21 -00 

20-17 

20 40 

21 


Vishnupur 


» 

20-00 

19-75 

20-00 

21 00 

20-19 

20-35 

23 

Arahar (Small) 

Bankura 


m 

N.S. 

N.S. 

21-00 

N.S. 

21-00 

19-00 

lv 


Vishnupur 


*» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

. ,s 

Spices, 











Orii‘»ii (Patnai) . . •• 

Bankura 


Md. 

12 00 

14- 00 

16-00 

19-00 

15 -25 

12-10 



V inlinupur 



N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13-10 

N.8. 


Kotulpur 


» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13(i0 

N.^ 

Onion (Madron •• * • 

Bankura 


M 

11-00 

17-00 

16-50 

16-50 

16-00 

11-80 

lo 7( 


Vishnupur 


*» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

'■'•31 


Kotulpur 


ft 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Onion (Bombuy) 

Bankura 


ft 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 



Vishnupur 



N.S. 

N,S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

.S 

\< 


Kotulpur 



N.S 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

\' 

Onion (Dorilii) 

1 Jankura 



N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

V 


Vishnu pr 



N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

W 


Kotulpur 



i\ .S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N N 

Onion (Keggon) small 

Bankura 


«» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

\ t S. 


Vishnupur 


M 

13*00 

17 ■ 00 

1700 

17-00 

16 • 12 

N.S. 

- 


Kotulpur 


•» 

11 *00 

17-50 

17-50 

17-50 

16-62 

N.S. 

\ <\ 

Chillion (dry) (Jarda) 

Bankura 


»» 

so - 00 

95 -00 

93-00 

92-00 

90-00 

81-80 

7J ill 


Vishnupur 



80-00 

95-00 

94-00 

i 

90 00 

89-75 

88-20 

si* if 

Chillies (dry) (Bihar) 

Bankura 



95-00 

100-00 

100-00 

100 -00 

98-75 

88 20 

!0 i) 

Milk and milk products. 

Vishnupur 


M 

83 00 

86-00 

86-00 

84 -00 

84 75 

91 60 

!l] (j 

Ghee (buffalo) 

Vishnupur (P) 


Md. 

230 00 

230' 00 

235-00 

230 00 

231 25 

230 00 

iin 

Chhana (rakimroed) 

Ditto 


>i 

27-00 

27 50 

35-00 

27 60 

29-25 

27-80 

31 « 

Chhaiia (uiiHkimmed) 

Ditto 


H 

75-00 

75 00 

80 00 

75 -00 

76 -25 

75 -00 

M) 

Oilseeds , Oil <fk Oil cake. 











Mustard Aniseed 

Bankura 


Md. 

30-00 

32 00 

34 00 

35 00 

32 75 

32-50 

J!l I 

1 

Vishnupur 


ii 

34-50 

34 25 

34 50 

33 50 

34-19 

31-45 

30 jj 

Mustard oil 

Bankura 


ii 

82-00 

H2 00 

86-00 

87 -00 

84 25 

83-10 

* 

il 


Vishnupur 


»» 

82-00 

82-00 

82-50 

87 -00 

83 37 

83 -65 

SI- 4 

Mustard oil cake 

Bankura 


* » 

11 37 

11 50 

11 -75 

11 76 

11 59 

11 -50 

1! 1 

7 obacco. 

Vishnupur 


ii 

11 25 

11 50 

11-62 

12-00 

11 -57 

11 25 

J1 ' 

Bidi tobacco ( Nopan i) 

Bankura 


Md. 

200 00 

200 00 

200 -00 

200 00 

200-00 

200 -00 

20 " 1 


Vishnupur 

1 

It 

210-00 

210-00 

i 

210 00 

210-00 

210 00 

206 -00 

201' ( 



SUTFEKM KAT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


55 


wholesale prices BANKURA— cvnckl. October 1961 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 


Collection weeks ended Saturday, 1 
dated - | 

Monthly 

Lnet 

month’s 

Average of 
October, 



7th 

14th 

21st 

28 th 

average. 

average . 

lOOo. 




Re. nP. 

Re. 11 P. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Its. nP. 

Lao . 










hack (Baishukhi) 

Kliatra ( V ) 

Md. 

3100 

34*50 

35*50 

50*00 

35 00 

34 • 00 

41* 10 

SUeev and goat . 










nit (He) (8 eeere of moat wt.) 

Kotulpur 

Each 

20 -00 

20 *50 

21 -00 

20 00 

20 37 

20 00 

10 *30 

Cuttle /odder. 










Jtlv straw 

Hide and skin. 

Jhantipahuri 

Per 
Kalian 
of 11 
Mde. 

32 ()0 

N.«. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

32 00 

30 00 

N.S. 

itlttlo Hides 

K hat i n (P) 

Per 

rioeo 

22 00 

21 *00 

20 *00 

10 00 

20 50 

17 00 

13 40 

»» 

Ditto 

M 

0 00 

S 50 

8 *00 

8 50 

8 50 

S 20 

0 70 

wt skin 

Ditto 

99 

2 50 

2 50 

2 50 

2 02 

2 53 

2 30 

3 00 

.4 j, skill 

1 >lttn 

” 

1 12 

1 25 

1 25 

1 25 

1 • 22 

1 20 

l 25 

M meellanrous. 










!\ ,M.r 

Bunkum 

Md, 

21*50 

20*00 

20*00 

20*00 

20 37 

20 83 

20*00 


Viduiupur 


15*00 

10 00 

10*00 

17*00 

10 00 

10 10 

12 33 

III 1 gut 

Bunkum 


15 50 

15 00 

15 50 

15 50 

15*37 

15 00 

14 20 


Vishnu pur 


12*50 

13*00 

13*00 

13*00 

12*87 

13*00 

12*20 

.to 

Bunkum 

.♦ 

40 00 

40 00 

41*00 

41*00 

40 50 

40 10 

40*80 


Vishnupur 


40-75 

41*00 

41*00 

40*80 

40*80 

41*10 

42 40 

/•' ireuvod . 



j 







JIllMUMl Sllld 

Viahmipur 

Md. 

2 25 

2 25 

| 

2 0 5 

2 25 

2 25 

2 * 25 

2*00 


Poardoba 

” 

2 12 

0 12 

2 • 12 

2 12 

2 • 12 

2 12 

2*00 




Kt'lTI.KM KNT TO Til K ( A I.CI TTA 'iA/.FTi F. IFBUUAUY 13, 1962 


Wholesale prices 


MIDNAPORE 


October isei 



13-00 

12 

11 75 

11 

20 00 

20 

20 50 

20 

21 00 

21 

21 25 

20 

22 75 

23 

21 50 

21 


27 00 
20 • 25 
22 00 2 
20 0 » 

19 00 
1700 







SUITI.EMKNT TO TIIK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY T>, 1962 


57 


liolesale prices MIDNAPORE— contd. October 1961 


Commodity. 

Naim* of Market. 

Unit. 

Collect ion weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — • 

Monthly 

Last 
mont Ida 

Average i.f 
October, 




7th 

14th 

21st 

28th 

average. 

average. 

1960. 





Itw. nP. 

Kh. nP. 

Ra. nl\ 

Rr. nP. 

Rh. i) P 

Uh. nP. 

Rs. ul\ 

I’ntitfi* and Vryrlnl'lc/i. 











0 ( \ aiiiit.nl) 

Miiinapnro 


Mil. 

25-50 

20-00 

28 00 

28-50 

27 00 

25-40 

N.S. 


Amlngora 


,» 

25-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

25-00 

24 • 83 

N.S. 


Dudkumra 


•• 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

2o • a 

tto iMudmfl) .. 

Midnapore 



25-50 

20 00 

20-50 

20-50 

20 12 

25-40 

10-30 


Kharagpur 


*• 

25-00 

25-00 

27-00 

27 00 

20-00 

2310 

10*00 


Amlagora 


»• 

25-00 

25-00 

20 00 

20-50 

25-02 

25-20 

15-00 


Dudkumra 


» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Hto (Cold Storage) 

Kharagpur 


ft 

22-00 

22 -00 

24-00 

23-00 

22-75 

20-37 

N.S. 

*t Pumpkin 

Amlagora 


>► 

0-00 

0-25 

7-00 

7-00 

0-50 

6 10 

4-80 


Jhargram 


t* 

0-50 

0-50 

0-00 

5-00 

0-00 

7-50 

8-30 


Dudkumra 


” 

8-50 

11-00 

11-00 

N.S. 

10- 16 

6 80 

7-05 

%r/s- and Poultry. 











I.gg (Ungraded) 

Binpur 


IOONoh. 

1300 

1300 

13-00 

12-00 

12-75 

12-90 

10-00 

p 1 live weight 1 i soors) 

Ditto 


Each 

2-75 

2 75 

300 

3 00 

2-87 

2- 95 

3-70 


Tengm 

•• 

- 

3-50 

4-00 

3-50 

3-50 

3-02 

3 45 

3-95 

Sheep and Goat . 











{•'}> (live weight 12 aeora) 

Binpur 

•• 

Each 

18-00 

18-00 

20-00 

20 00 

19-60 

19 40 

20 40 

hi (live w oight- 14 ws'ih) 

I htto 



23-00 

23-00 

25-00 

25-00 

21 00 

25-00 

20-80 

n (lno woi^lit- 12 soors) 

Tongra 

•• 


24-00 

24-50 

o 

o 

CS 

24-00 

24-37 

23 60 

24-50 

Fruit* (Dry). 











h<*\v (Kernel) 

('on lai (P) 

•• 

Mil. 

130-00 

120-00 

130-00 


125-00 

128-00 

150-00 

Guttle Fodder. 











*l\ (Strnvv) 

Milk and Milk Frodnct ft. 

Rallichak 


Md. 

1*37 

1-37 

2-25 

1-25 

1 • 50 

1 • so 

2 85 

• 

(buffalo) 

Amlngoro 


Md. 

28-00 

30-00 

32-00 

30-00 

31 50 

27-40 

31-70 

u,, ti (Mkirumoil) 

Ditto 

•• 

M 

54 00 

(to Oil 

02 00 


00-25 

53-10 

50-00 

l ** r (KnpuJ) 

(ihatul 

•• 

99 

220-00 

220 00 

220 00 


220 00 

190 00 

198-00 

n, l and Oilcake. 











Mil 

Midnapore 


Md. 

84-00 

84-50 

84-50 

80 ‘00 

84-75 

81-80 

78-90 


Kharagpur 

•• 

»* 

84-00 

84-00 

88-00 

80-00 

85 • 50 

81-00 

81-20 








SITPl’liEM KNT TO THE PA LETT 'IT A GAZETTE. FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


Wholesale prices MIDNAPORE— conrld. October 1 


Commodity. 

Nam© of Market. 

Unit. 

Colloetiun weeka ended Saturday, 
dated - 

Monthly 

Las t 
month’s 

7 th 

MIL 

21st 

2Kth 

average. 

average. 




its. up. 

Its. r.r 

Its. 111*. 

Kb. nP. 

Its 111*. 

Its. nl> 

Oil and Oilralr ronrld. 









Mustard (Jih*id<o 

Ainlju-/*ro . . 

Mil. 

12-50 

12 no 

12 7 n 

12 75 

12-K7 

12-00 


jMidkumrn 


12 00 

12 7 n 

12-75 

13 25 

12 S7 

12 30 


K hu ui 


1 1 • no 

nno 

li no 

12 00 

11 62 

II 07 

li'tbrr*. 









Juto (Ctarsnt) 

Dudkumrn 

Md. 

34-00 

32*00 

33-00 

32 00 

32 75 

35-20 


Kolnjdi.il 

►> 

34-00 

23-00 

32 00 

32 00 

33 00 

33-00 

Mi ' wellon u) n* . 









Gur (Cano) 


Md. 

13 no 

13 no 

i r> -oo 

15 00 

M -25 

12*20 

i' in* wood 

Ditto 

.* 

2 • no 

2 -no 

3*00 

3 00 

2 75 

2*10 


.llnugr » m 

.. 

100 

1-00 

l-oo 

1 00 

1*00 

1 00 

Jiet«l leaven 

Tiiiiilul 

1,000 

Nos. 

2 -no 

2 no 

2 no 

2-50 

2 no 

2*00 




SF1TJ.EMEIVT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1%2 


59 


wholesale prices PURULIA October 1961 


(Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Colleetion weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Mont iil\ 

hint 

month’s 

,\\ emge <>( 

( k-toher, 


7th 

14th 

2 1 Rt 

28 th 

»\ er;|e<\ 

average. 

1900 




Km. nl* 

IN. i,P 

IP nl*. 

Ks. nl*. 

K’i np 

K . nl*. 

Kh nl’ 

( 'create. 










(Sitasal) 

Ptn'iilm 

M.l 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Mnnlm/nr ( 1 * ) 


x.s. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

l» u j,h t M***lmti») (Bahai) 

1‘tmdi.i 


1 l -50 

11 50 

11 50 

11 50 

11 50 

11 65 

! 1 25 


Motiha/ar (P) 


11-00 

11 oo 

11 00 

1100 

11 00 

11-20 

10 SO 

M<ly (CV»ixi*m'0 (LiiU) 

Pumlin 


11 fit) 

11 50 

11-50 

11-50 

11 50 

Il-GG 

11-25 


Manha/nr (|M 


11-00 

1H0 

11 00 

11 00 

11-00 

11-2 / 

10 so 

pirn iFinc) (Sitoflal) 

Pui'nlm 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N .S. 

N S 

(Ilandpoundod) 






N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N S 

>• 

Aliudaizai ( 1’) 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

jinn' (Mori in m) (Btthftl) ,, 

Purulin 


21 -00 

21-00 

21 -00 

21 00 

21 00 

21 40 

18 40 

fP 

Manlat/flr (T) 


20-75 

20-50 

20 50 

20 50 

20 ■ 50 

20 20 

17 25 

iUct* (Coarse) (Lftli) „ . 

Pumh.-i 


20-00 

18-75 

18 75 

18 75 

19 00 

19-12 

17 30 


MniiLm ’•nr (P) 


1 0 -50 

18 50 

18-59 

18 50 

18-75 

IS 82 

10 75 

f'utecH ( Whole). 










lusiir (Khan) (Big) 

Piimhii 

Aid. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

21 85 

n 3 (K lack) (Small) 

Ditto 


28-00 

28-w0 

28 00 

28-00 

28-00 

27 4u 

20-00 

Pulses (Split). 










‘lung (Dal) 

I'lirukn 

Md. 

28 00 

28-00 

28 00 

28- 00 

28 00 

29 4l> 

28 20 

..am \ Dal) 

1/fltO 


18 50 

18 GO 

18-50 

18 Go 

18 60 

19-60 

! 

2o 10 

Oil and Oilcake . 










‘l.i. turd oil 

Pu culm 

Aid 

85-00 

83-00 

S3 00 

83-00 

83-60 

83 00 

80-20 

'ill .I hi 1 1 oilonke 

Ditto 

M 

12 00 

12 00 

12 00 

12 00 

12 00 

11 70 

10-00 

Potato and Onion. 










'nut.. ( lied. Hound) 

Mnnhuzn r (P) 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

JVmi<> (Bihar) 

Ditto 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Potato (Noinital) . . 

Ditto 

.. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N .S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

22-00 

N.S. 

Potato (Madras) 

Ditto 


25 00 

28-00 

28 00 

28-00 

27-25 

23 26 

17-80 

h icm (liitf) (Imported) 

Milch Cattle. 

Ditto 

’* 

10-00 

io*oo 

10-00 

10 * oo 

1 0 • 00 

J2 70 

• 

9 40 

" v; (Milk yield 1 sr. daily) 

Kashipur (I*) 

Kneli. 

105-00 

1 1000 

110-00 

110 00 

108 75 

105 00 

104 00 

v> ’ (Milk yield 2 srs. daily) 

Ditto 

» 

230 00 

230-00 

230 00 

230 00 

230 00 

205 20 

234-00 

,,u (Milk yield 3 srs. daily) 

Ditto 


315-00 

345-nO 

315-00 

346 00 

337-50 

292 00 

354-00 

Poultry. 










" W 1 (hive weight 1 sr.) 

Tvashipur (P) 

Each. 

5 00 

4-75 

4-75 

4 75 

1 81 

4 75 

4 00 

Eggs. 











Kasliipur (P) 

Dozen 

1-50 

1 -50 

1-50 

1-50 

i 

1-50 

1-50 

1*60 

L,m Kkks 

Ditto 


2-25 

2-25 

CM 

[ 

| 

1 


2 26 

2 20 

2-25 


SITN/KMUNT To TIIK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


Wholesale prices PURULIA — concld. October ij# 





Collection wooke endod Saturday, 



~ - 





dated - 


Monthly 

Last 

Avuri^, 

Commodit y. 

Name of Market, 

Unit. 





average. 

month p 
average. 

U<*t»U 

131)11. 




7th 


21st 

28th 







Rk. ill*. 

Rs. ill*. 

Rr. nr. 

Rk. nr. 

Rh. ii r. 

Rk. III’. 

i: * 

M,U . 










Cow 

Kaslftipur ( P) 

M<l. 

25 00 

25 00 

26 00 

25 00 

25 00 

28 00 

3u 

Bullalo 

I lit to 

” 

30 oo 

30 00 

30 00 

30 00 

30 00 

33 00 

, 

Lac <nt<! fihtllar. 










T. N. Shellac 

Balaramjmr (F) 

Mil. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

no 

T. N. Shollar, Slandaid 1 

Ditto 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

7 1 

T. N. Sheila- , Standard 11 

Ditto 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

74 

Yollow Shellac 

Ditto 

ft 

72*00 

72 00 

72 00 

72 00 

72*00 

72 50 

I’d* 

Buttonlao (Best) 

Ditto 

99 

90 -00 

90 00 

90 00 

90 00 

90 00 

90 -20 

SO 

Seedlac Kusu m 

Ditto 

P> 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

6i > 

Seedlac Han pin 

Ditto 

PP 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N. 

Seedlac Baisakhi 

Ditto 

99 

58-00 

58 00 

58 00 

58 -00 

68*00 

49 00 

no 

Stick lac KuHum 

Jimlda 

P 9 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

37 

Stioklac Rangin 

Ditto 

9 9 

18*00 

10*50 

10*50 

10*50 

10*88 

N.S. 

l'7 

Sticklnc Baisakhi 

Ditto 

M 

32*00 

32 00 

32 00 

32 00 

32 00 

34-00 

3| 



SHIMM.KMKNT TO THE ('AU’HTTA GAZETTE. FEBRUARY 15, 1%2 


61 


tolesale prices JALPAIGURI October 1961 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collixition weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

1 average. 

Laat 

month's 

Average of 
October, 



7th 

14th 

2 ltd 

28th 

average. 

1900. 




Kh. nP. 

lis. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Kh. nP. 

Kh. nP. 

Cereals, 










Jv (Fin o) Nunia 

Dhupguri (P) 

Md. 

15 00 

14 50 

14 50 

15 00 

14*75 

14-36 

N.S. 


Samuktala (P) 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

l Mmluiin) Dudkalara 

Dhupguri (P) 


14 00 

13-50 

13-50 

1300 

13*50 

13 55 

14 50 

j v (Modiura) JobIiou 

Samuktala (P) 

99 

14-50 

13-50 

15-00 

15*00 

14-50 

14 10 

14-50 

j v (CofvrBo) Bagra 

Dhupguri (P) 

»♦ 

13*25 

13 00 

13 00 

12*50 

12 94 

12 70 

13*50 


Samuktala (P) 

»> 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14-50 

14 60 

14-50 

13*00 

13*00 

,(Kmo) Nuuia 

Dhupguri 

99 

N.S. 

N-S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Jalpaiguri 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Alipurdu&r 

», 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

(Medium) Dudkalam 

Dhupguri 

99 

24*50 

24*50 

24-00 

23*50 

24-12 

23*80 

N.S. 


Jalpaiguri 

99 

23*50 

23 50 

23 50 

23 00 

23 37 

23 15 

22*70 

(Medium) Joahou 

Alipurduar 


20 ■ 00 

20*00 

to 

6 

o 

20*00 

20-00 

24 80 

24*20 

(Medium) Naybuzar 

Dhupguri 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

23-05 

N.S. 


Jalpaiguri 

M 

21-50 

21 -50 

24*50 

24-25 

24-44 

N.S. 

N.S. 

(Bourne) Bagrtt 

Dhupguri 

*» 

23 • 50 

23*25 

23-25 

23 00 

23-25 

23-70 

23 75 


Jalpaiguri 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

22 *00 


Alipurduar 


25-00 

25*00 

25*00 

25 00 

25*00 

22 35 

23*20 

(i outdo) Chowdhani 

Dhupguri 

»» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Jalpaiguri 

M 

22 25 

22 00 

22-00 

22*00 

22 00 

23-95 

N.S. 

Duls ( split pulses). 










: (Ordinary) (U.P.) 

Jalpaiguri 

Ml. 

20 50 

29 .50 

29 00 

29-00 

1 29-25 

29 00 

29*10 

r (Big) (Bihar) 

Ditto 


21 00 

21 00 

21 00 

21 00 

21 00 

| 21-10 

21 00 

Sfiir.cs. 










i (Big) (Bihar) 

Julpai gui 

Md. 

13-00 

13 50 

13- 60 

10 00 

14 00 

12 40 

11*00 

i ( Kaligang) . . 

Ditto 

99 

13-00 

14 00 

14-00 

17-00 

14 50 

12*70 

N.S. 

'billies ( Bihar) 

Ditto 

99 

OS *00 

98*00 

98*00 

105*00 

99-75 

08-00 

100*00 

hdlios (Kaligang) 

Ditto 

” 

100-00 

100-00 

100 00 

110*00 

102-50 

100 00 

95-00 

• 

Potato and Vegetables. 










o (D©8hi) 

Jalpaiguri 

Md. 

N.S, 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

B (Red Hound) 

Ditto 

M 

24-00 

25-00 

27-00 

27-00 

25*75 

22 10 

10 80 

Mustard seeds . 










sox! (Kajli) Bold other 

Dhupguri (P) 

Md. 

30*00 

30-00 

30 -00 

30-00 

30*00 

29-70 

N.S. 

a yellow). 









Alipurduar (P) 

- 

29-00 

29-00 

29 00 

29-00 

29 00 

30 80 

20-00 


Falakata (P) 

» 

29-00 

29 00 

29*00 

29-00 

29*00 

30*00 

26 -30 



sri'H.KMTNT TO 'I'll K CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


Wholesale prices 


JALPAIGURI — concld. 


October i) 



Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 


Name of Market. 


Milch Cattle . 

Cow (Mlik yield 1$ sooth daily) Samuktala 


Milk and Milk Product s. 
Milk (Cow) • • « 


Mai {ban 


Hide and Skin. 
Cow (Wot -Baited) .. 

Jluilab (Wet- -salted) 

Goat 

Miscellaneous. 
Gur (Bhelli) 


Jalpaiguri 

Alipurduar 

, Dhupguri 
Alipurduar 
Falakata 
Dhupguri 
Alipurduar 
Falakata 

Dhupguri (P) 

Balaecobu 

Falakata 

Alipurduar 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Jalpaiguri 



Pci 

piece oi 

0 lbs. 
Per 

piece ol 
20 lbs. 
Per 
piece. 


Lost Av. r , 

Monthly month Vt 
average. average. j,', 1 


Ks. nP. Ph. n I * | 

09-25 99-00 | i(> 

84 00 31 40 

20 00 25 oo . Jt 

108 75 99 -00 

101 00 112-00 it- 

101-00 114-00 ttev 

110-75 111-00 b M 

100*50 115-00 177 


30 25 31-40 H 

38-50 35 00 -.ii 

29 25 31 00 11 


0 00 0 (Ml ii 


8 - 00 8 00 


2 00 2 -00 


25-02 22 00 





















Sl'lTI.KM KNT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1%2 


61 


Wholesale price* DARJEELING October 1961 



Name ol Market. 

Unit . 

Collection w'ej Handed Saturday, 
dated — 

Menihlx 

l.je.t ^ 
IllDMl llV 

Vvi'iirt <*1 
October. 


7th 

1 1th 

2 1st 

L* ST 1 1 

n\ ••rag «* 

ll \ er.'U’e. 

- s 

i960. 

Certain- 



Rs. nP. 

Rs. up. 

Ks. nl>. 

Rs. nP. 

IvH. nl\ 

Us. III’. 

Rh. „P. 

, (lino) (Kakurjali) .. 

Mutigara 

Md. 

10*00 

10*00 

10*00 

15*50 

1 5 87 

1 1 * 35 

14*30 


Naxalbari 

.» 

it» *50 

It) 50 

it; 50 

1 5 • 7 5 

it; 31 

11 25 

1 3 50 

. rt ,l,lv (medium) (Kalam) 

Maii^ar a 


14*25 

14*50 

14*50 

15*00 

14* .i0 

13 00 

12 05 


Naxalbun 

99 

14*50 

14 50 

14*50 

15*25 

14*00 

13 55 

12 25 

» ltl {,]y (coarse) (Jiajcshi) . 

Mat) pam 

e 

13*75 

13*75 

13*75 

14*75 

11 00 

10-70 

12 • 70 


Naxalburi 

M 

14-00 

11*00 

14*00 

14 75 

14 10 

10 55 

12*00 

i; |( . 0 (lino) (I3angnhihari) . . 

Siliguri 

» 

1C 

c 

o 

25 00 

25 ■ 00 

24*50 

21 02 

23*70 

23 05 

(medium) (Kalam) 

Ditto 

99 

22*00 

22 • 00 

22-00 

22 • 00 

22 • 00 

22*40 

22 30 

L, (course) (Mixod) 

Ditto 

»* 

20 00 

20 00 

20*00 

20 00 

20 00 

20 10 

21 05 

hUuv • * • • • • 

Kalimpong 

»* 

11 00 

11-00 

11-00 

11*00 

11*00 

9 50 

11*00 


Darjeeling 


13 00 

13-00 

15*00 

13-00 

13-00 

13*00 

13*00 

lipw&l. 








• 


[tiulunioni 

Kalimpong 

Md. 

00*00 

00*00 

00*00 

00*00 

00*00 

02 * 20 

8 1 80 


Sonada 

ft 

0 l • 00 

02*00 

02 * 00 

05 • 00 

02*50 

04 • 00 

83*20 

Omp'i .. 

Kalimpoiig 

t. 

9*00 

0 * 00 

0*00 

9*00 

0 00 

8 80 

10 80 

' 

Darjeeling 

- 

10-00 

10*00 

15*00 

10*00 

11 25 

11*40 

15*40 

f'oluto and IV-j fc.tahlvs. 










'< mu- (t able, rod luund) 

! 

1 Darjeeling 

Md. 

23 00 

21 00 

20*00 

30 ■ 00 

27 25 

22 50 

10*20 

1 >i, i ! (table, white Nuimtal) . . 

Ditto 

.. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

1’ 'into N cl (Kalamati) 

Ditto 

ft 

20 00 

22 00 

21 00 

30*00 

21 00 

N.S. 

21 10 

f ‘Into Ami (i’llaniati) 

Ditto 


18 00 

19*00 

21 00 

27 00 

21 25 

N.S. 

18*00 

. IlLlbjig* 1 

Ditto 

t» 

14*00 

10*00 

10*00 

10*00 

15 50 

17*30 

14 20 


Ditto 

tt 

40*00 

40 00 

40 00 

45 00 

45*75 

78-00 

51*00 


Kalimpong 

ft 

50 *00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

50 00 

50-00 

25*00 

1 track Beans 

Ditto 

f » 

10 00 

10*00 

10 00 

10*00 

10 00 

12*80 

6*25 


Darjeoling 

tt 

10 * 00 

23*00 

23*00 

10*00 

18*00 

23*20 

13*80 

Uuhfluwer 

Ditto 

Per 100 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

> 

Eggs. 










in (graded medium) . . 

Darjeeling 

Per 

dozen. 

2*26 

2*37 

2*50 

2*75 

2*47 

2*22 

2*00 

Milk and Milk Products, 

Sukhinpokhri 

Md. 

170-00 

180*00 

180*00 

180*00 

177 GO 

170*00 

177 *00 

i 



SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


Wholesale prices 


DARJEELING— concld. 


October i%i 


Commodit v. 


Name ot Market. 


Collection weeks ended Saturday, 

dated — • LaH J\ r, 

U uit Monthly months Octol** 


7th 14th 21st 28th 


average. average. Hjqq ' 


Shccft and float. 

1’ig (Live weight, i£ mds. each) Naxalbari 


Hs. nP. Hs. nP. Rs. nP. ul 


Pair 160 00 105*00 165*00 N.S. 103*33 162*00 lGi!-ot 


Milch Cuttle. 

Cow (yielding 1 Hr. a day) •• Mali gar a 

Ihitfalo (yielding 2 hi*h. a day) . . Nnxulbari 


Kaeh 85-00 90 00 90*00 N.S 88-33 80-00 !*j , )( 

100 00 195*00 195*00 N.S. 193 33 194*00 11)5 0 


Jute (Loom' CarHWt) 


Siliguri 


Md. 3:2-00 34-00 34 00 34 00 33-50 31-40 48-6 


Animal Fibre. 
Haw wool (white) (Tibet,) 
Kaw wool (grey) (Tibet) 


Ivaliinpong 


Md. I N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. 

I N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. 


Oranges 


Toosta 


1,000 N.S. 


N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S, 


M iticpllaneous . 


Sonadu 


Md. 30*00 35 


-00 35-00 38*00 34-50 28-40 l« r > i 



SUPPLEMENT TO THE CAUTTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


65 


Wholesale prices WEST DINAJPUR October 1961 





Collection weeks ended Saturday, 

| 


1 

| 

Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 


dated — 


Monthly 

average. 

Loat 
month h 

Average of 
October, 
1960. 




7 th 

J4th 



average. 




21st 

28th 






Rs. nP. 

Its. nl\ 

K a. nl\ 

Rh. nP. 

Re. nP. 

He. nl\ 

Kb. ut\ 

Cereals. 










itiue) Darikaoal 

Dhankoil Hat 

Md. 

15* 75 

11-50 

14*50 

14 -00 

I t *69 

11 46 

N.S. 

Paddy (tine) Panihati 

Balurghut Ilat 


13*50 

13-50 

13-50 

13 60 

13 *50 

13 60 

11 86 

Kalam (Mixed) 

Damdtuna Hat 


14*00 

13*75 

13-75 

13-50 

13 75 

13 55 

11 90 

Chonga and Kalam 

Dhnnkoil Hat 


X.S. 

13 75 

13*50 

13 *25 

13-50 

7*70 

14*02 


lalampur Hat 

» 

14 00 

14-00 

14 -50 

14-60 

14 26 

13 90 

13*90 


Dalkhola Hat 

M 

14 00 

14-00 

14*50 

14-50 

14 26 

13 85 

13-00 

Paddy (coarse) 



N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Rk* (fine) Darikaaal 

Dhankoil Hat 

,, 

24.00 

23-25 

23*50 

23*50 

23*66 

23 05 

N*S. 

Rich ( moviiuin) Panihati 

Balurghat Ilat. 

1 • 

23.50 

23 -25 

23-26 

23-25 

23*31 

23 *30 

21 30 


Balurghat, Atwombh 

M 

24 00 

23-50 

23 -26 

23*50 

23-56 

23*20 

21 30 


mg Centre. 








Kalam (Mixed) • • 

Damdama Hat 


24 00 

23-50 

23-50 

23*25 

23 66 

23 -10 

21 -40 

phenga and Kalam 

Dhankoil Hat 

»» 

N.S. 

22-75 

22*76 

22-50 

22 -67 

17 -36 

25-00 


lalampur Hat 

99 

20 00 

20 00 

26 -00 

20 -00 

26 -00 

26 -40 

25 30 


Dalkhola Ilat 

99 

20 00 

25-50 

20*00 

26-00 

26 *87 

24 80 

24*40 

Rico (coarse) Kalam 

Islatnpur Hat 

ft 

23 50 

24*00 

24* 00 

24*00 

23-87 

23*20 

23-00 


Dalkhola Hat 

ft 

23-50 

23-50 

24*00 

24-00 

23- 76 

22 40 

22*60 

Pulses {whole). 




i 






ft id (black, small) — 

Dhankoil Hat 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

' N.S. 

16-47 

Spices. 










Clnllitw (dry, Kaliaganj ) 

Dhankoil Hat- 

Md. 

100*00 

100- 00 

95*00 

100*00 

98-75 

95 60 

90 *30 

Union, ( doflVii, small) 

Ditto 


13 00 

16-50 

15*50 

16 -50 

15-12 

12*25 

16-20 

Oil Seed. 










Mustard (Bold other than yellow) 

Dhankoil Hat 

Md. 

36*00 

30 -00 

36 -50 

36*50 

36 -25 

35 70 

33-56 


Maharaja Hat 

»» 

36 -50 

30-50 

36 -60 

36 50 

36 *50 

36 -60 

34*15 

Fibres. 










lute (Indian, Northern Qarsat ) 

Balurghiit Hat- 

Md. 

27 -50 

27 00 

27-00 

26 00 

26 -87 

32 40 

N.S. 

(olitorious) 

Ditto (Capsularies) 

Damdama Hat 


27-00 

27*00 

27-00 

26*00 

26-87 

32*40 

Bap.45* 60 
43-30 


Dhankoil Hat 


29 -60 

29 -50 

28*60 

28*00 

28-87 

32 *40 

44 -50 


Maharaja Qat 

*• 

29 *60 

30*60 

26*60 

29-00 

28 -87 

32 *05 

45 *40 


Islam pore Hat 


27 -00 

27*00 

26*60 

27 -00 

26 *87 

30 *00 

44-00 


Dalkhola Hat 


27*00 

27*60 

27 -00 

28-00 

27 37 

31*40 

43 -40 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


0 (> 


Wholesale prices WEST DINAJPUR — condd October igg 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month's 

Average o 

October 
I960, ’ 




7th 

14 th 

21st 

28th 

average. 




Ra. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rb. up 

Hide, and akin* 










Cow hide ;wot salted) 

Dhunkoil Hat 

Pieco 

11 *00 

11 -60 

11-60 

11*00 

11-26 

10-70 

8 -87 

Buffalo hide (vv(‘1 salted) 

Ditto 


16*60 

16-60 

16 -60 

16* 00 

16-37 

16 -60 

11 -Hj 

Qoat skin (wot willed) 

Ditto 

*» 

3*25 

3 00 

2-76 

2-75 

2*94 

2 96 

3 511 

MisccllaneouH. 










Bet-ol leaves (common' 

Damdama Hat 

1,000 

Nos, 

3-60 

3*00 

3*00 

3-00 

3 12 

3-60 

2 -r> 

















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


67 


olesale prices 

1 

MALDA 


Octo 

ber 1961 














Collection weeks 

ended Saturday, 








dat ed 



I .Uhl 

A \ ei-age of 

Com modify. 

Nano* of Market. 

tint 





Monthly 

months' 

( )etober. 








a\ eruge. 

a erage. 

1 060 




7 th 

1 Mh 

21st 

2 St h 







Its. nP. 

its r. 

Rh. nP. 

Its. 111 *. 

Rh. nP. 

Its 111 *. 

Us. ill*. 

( c.t pals 










iv Ndirbkalam (Fine) 

Ualmrmu ahganj 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S 

N.s 


Itutanpurhut 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.s. 

N.S. 

N.s. 

N.s. 

lyjhuian (Medium) 

Halianaw alieanj 


i r> :>o 

16 4)0 

15 -50 

15 -50 

1 5 -62 

14 50 

11 05 


Itatanpurhat 

« y 

i :» -50 

15-75 

N.S. 

14 -37 

15-20 

14 02 

1 4 -70 

lv Km lino ( J\1 odium) 

Balia nuwabganj 


If) -50 

16-00 

15 -50 

15 -50 

15-62 

1 1 -35 

1 1 05 


Itatanpurhat 


1.1 -50 

16 -00 

15-50 

14 -75 

15-43 

14 02 

14 -70 

ivi’hcnpa (Medium) 

Bahanawabganj 


15-25 

1 5 -50 

14 50 

14 -50 

l 1 -03 

14 00 

13 -60 


Itatanpurhat 

t* 

15 -25 

15 -50 

N.S. 

15 -10 

15 -31 

14 -16 

14 -15 

jy Hlmdoi (Couiho) 

Bahanawahpanj 


12 37 

12 -37 

N.S. 

12 -75 

12 40 

1 1 -25 

1 1 -00 


Itatanpurhat 


13 00 

13 00 

13 4)0 

12 -75 

12 -03 

11 05 

1 1 50 

Milled Mixed (Medium ) 

English ba/ar 


24 -75 

25 -00 

25 -00 

25 -00 

24 -03 

24 -25 

22 -45 

,4 Dmujpur). 










Ditto 

J > it to 


25 50 

■2i -50 

24 -50 

24 -50 

21 -50 

23 -85 

N.S. 


Itatanpurhat- 


12 00 

12-00 

NS. 

1 4 -37 

12 -70 

11 -00 

N.S. 

I'nhcs (U'fiol(’). 











Itatanpurhat 

Ms. 

16 00 

16-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

16 4)0 

15 -GO 

N.S. 

.il'nrn Muskalai) 

Ditto 


10 -25 

10-50 

20 -00 

20 4)0 

1 0 -68 

20-00 

J7 -40 

i'hlock Kulokulai) 

Ditto 

- 

17-25 

I 7 -50 

18*25 1 

1 

10 1 0 | 

i 

! 

18-01 

17 -25 

17 30 

Sprier ft. 





l 





in (dcslu, small) 

Bahanawahganj 

Md. 

13 00 

13-25 

16 4)0 

1 5 -75 

1 1 -50 

1 3 -35 

14 -00 

Oilseed. 










lard (hold other than yellow) 

Itatanpurhat 

Md. 

34 -00 

34 -00 

34 -00 

32 *75 

33 -68 

33 -70 

33 -00 

Egg*. 









• 

(ungiadod) 

Itatanpurhat 

100 

1 1 -25 

1 1 -25 

12 -50 

12 -50 

11 -87 

1 1 -08 

10-68 

Poultry. 










(liv <* wt, 1 ar.) 

Itatanpurhat 

Each 

2 -50 

2 -50 

2 -25 

2 25 

2 37 

2 -50 

2-10 

Xhee.p and Goat. 










: l,Vr ' Wt. 10 srs.) 

Rat-anpurhat 

Each 

23 -00 

23 -00 

23 -00 

23 00 

25 4H» 

23 10 

21 -00 



SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


Wholesale prices 



Name of Market. 


MALDA — concld. 


Collection woo Its ended Saturday, 
dated— 


7th J4th 21st 28th 


October 


Rr. nP. Rs. nP. Re. nP. Rs. nP. Rs. nP. | Rs. nP. | Rs. nP. | 


Jute (Capsulariea) 
Jute (Olitorious). 










supplement To the Calcutta gazette, February 15, i 96 > 


69 


pricts COOCH BEHAR October 1961 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated - 

Monthly 

average. 

Lust 

month ’a 

Average of 
Oetnbcr, 




7 th 

14 th 

21ut 

28th 

average. 

1960. 

Cereal*. 




Hs. nP. 

Kh. nP. 

Uh. ill’. 

\U. id'. 

Ks. ill*. 

Ba. nl’ 

Its. 111 *. 

P »ddy (*»>• p * krl 

Pundibari 


Md. 

15 -50 

15 50 

1G-25 

15*25 

15-37 

14 4 { 

15 50 

Mathabhanga 


e. 

10 00 

10-00 

10-00 

15-60 

15 • 88 

14 87 

15-25 


Tufangnnj 



N.S. 

15-00 

15-00 

14-75 

14-98 

15-00 

N.S. 

paddy (medium), Josua 

Pundibari 


.. 

15 00 

15-00 

15-00 

15-00 

1G -00 

14 30 

14-90 


Mathabhanga 



15-00 

15-50 

15 -50 

15 25 

1G 31 

14-50 

14 • 85 


Tufanganj 



15 00 

14 50 

14-50 

14-25 

14 Go 

14-44 

15 55 

Paddy (coarse), Depha 

Pundibari 



14 25 

Id 25 

14-50 

14 -GO 

14 -37 

13.81 

14-40 


Mathabhanga 



14 -50 

15 00 

15-00 

14 75 

14-81 

14 10 

14 »2G 


Tufangnnj 



14 50 

14 -00 

14 00 

14-00 

14 12 

13-09 

14-80 

Rice (fine). (Imported) 

Cooch Behar 



20 25 

25 50 

26 50 

26 *25 

26 -37 

25 -80 

25 70 


Mathabhanga 



20 00 

27 00 

27-00 

26-60 

26 • 62 

2t> 00 

26*20 


Dinhata 



2500 

20-00 

25*50 

mm 

26-69 

25 00 

N.S. 

Riee (medium), (Imported) 

Cooch Behar 



24 50 

24 ■ 75 

24 75 

24 50 

24 62 

24 55 

24-75 


Mathabhanga 



25 00 

25 50 

25 -50 

25 25 

25-31 

24 80 

25 40 


Dinhata 



25 25 

25 • 00 

24 -75 

21- 75 

24-94 

24 25 

24 -20 

Rio© (coarae), (Imported) 

Cooch Behar 



23 -00 

23 -00 

23 -00 

22 37 

22 *84 

22-81 

23-30 


Maihubbattga 



2 I • 00 

24 00 

24 -00 

24 • 00 

24 -00 

23 -GO 

23 35 


Dinhata 


” 

22-75 

23-00 

22*75 

22 75 

22 -HI 

22-30 

23 05 

Dais (*pW) 











Hung (ordinary) 

Cooch Behar 


! .M J. 

I 

20 -50 

20 -50 

20 *50 

29 -60 

29 *50 

t 

28-70 

28 -90 

Mamir (big) 

Ditto 


i 

21 -00 

21 00 

21 00 

20 -50 

20 -88 

1 

21-70 

22 *50 

Gram (big) 

Ditto 



21-00 

2 1 -00 

21 -00 

1 

21 -00 

21 *00 

20*30 

21 -30 

Spioes. 



i 


1 






Onion (deshi) 

Cooch Bolmr 


Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

18 -50 

17 -40 

Onion (Bihar) 

Ditto 



14 -50 

21 -00 

25 -GO 

24-50 

22-37 

15*40 

16 *10 

Ory Chilliee (Bengal) 

Ditto 



N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

106 75 

93 -80 

Dry Chilliee (Bihar) 

Ditto 



105.00 

105 00 

106 -00 

108*00 

106-00 

110-00 

• 

101*80 

Potato and Vegetables • 











Potato (Darjeeling) 

Cooch Behar 


Md. 

25 -00 

2(5-00 

2S-00 

28 00 

26-25 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Potato (Bihar) 

Ditto 


ft 

24-50 

26-50 

28 -00 

27 -GO 

25-87 

27*16 

N.S. 

htoto (Assam) 

Ditto 



N.S. 

24 -00 

25 -50 

28*00 

26 16 

23*90 

N.S. 

Fibre* 











tote (bottom) . . 

Cooch Behar 


Md. 

27-50 

28-50 

28*00 

28-50 

2S- 12 

31*00 

43-40 

'«»« (middle) 

Dinhata 


»* 

30-25 

32-00 

34-00 

31 -50 

31-74 

32 65 

! 

46*20 








70 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


Wholesale prices COOCH BEHAR — concld. October iggj 


Commodity. 

\fimA of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

avorago. 

Last 

month's 

<SK” 

1830. ’ 



7th 

14th 

2lBt 

28th 


average. 





R». nP. 

Ka. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Ra. ap 

(Hi ared. 











Mu staid 

Pundibai i 

. . 

Md. 

34-00 

35 00 

35-00 

34-00 


35*40 

28-80 


Tufanganj 


„ 

:i2-oo 

32-00 

32-00 

32-00 


32-50 

28 do 

Mustard oil 

Coooh Bohar 

•• 

»» 

95-00 

95-00 

95-50 

96-00 

95-37 

94-00 

83-00 

Tobacco. 











Matiliari (good) 

Cooch Bohar 


Md. 

100-78 

104 78 

104-78 

102*78 

102 -78 

101-18 

107-80 


Dinhata 


n 

144 • 78 

137*78 

139*78 

135 78 

139-53 

139-58 

184-16 

Matihai i (motliurn) 

Cooch IVhtir 


t • 

94-78 

97-78 

97-78 

90-78 

90-78 

95*78 

153-76 


Dinliala 



99-78 

97*78 

99*78 

90-78 

99*28 

97*18 

173 16 

Mul dun • (< oiwv*>) 

Cooch Bohar 


1 M 

88*78 

89-78 

89 78 

88-78 

89 28 

89*18 

141 56 


Dinhata 


,, 

74*78 

74*78 

74-78 

74*78 

74*78 

77*18 

189-16 

Jati (good ) 

Cooch JJohar 


” 

100-78 

100-78 

100-78 

N.S. 

100 *78 

98*98 

N.S. 


Duiliata 


ft 

194-78 

194-78 

194*78 

181*78 

192*28 

204*78 

254 16 

Jati (medium) 

Cooch Bohar 


M 

94-7 8 

94-78 

94 *78 

N.S. 

94 *78 

93-38 

N.S, 


Dinhata 


♦ * 

144*78 

139-78 

144*78 

139*78 

142-28 

140-98 

209 16 

Jati (course) 

Cooch Bohar 


* » 

88-78 

88-78 

88*78 

N.S. ! 

88*78 

87*38 

N.S. 


Dinliata 


M 

89-78 

87-78 

85-78 

89-78 

88-28 

90 *78 

17s If, 

Jlida and Skin. 











Cow (wet and salted ) 

Cooch Boliar 


Piece 

0-50 

7-00 

7*00 

7*00 

6*88 

6-10 

7-80 

Buffalo (wot and salted) 

Ditto 



9 00 

9-50 

9-25 

9 50 

9*31 

8*20 

11-60 

Goat (wot and Halted) 

Ditto 


" 

1*76 

2-00 

1*87 

2*00 

1-91 

1*52 

3-10 

M ticdlancou*. 











Gur (Bhelly) 

Cooch Bohar 

•• 

Md. 

20 00 

27-00 

20*50 

27-00 

j 20*62 

i 

22-90 

25 10 


Writers,’ Buildings, 
Calcutta, the 4th No\ ember, 1961 


N. C. RAY, 

Joint Director of Agricultural Marktitiun, 
West Beiigul. 













SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALTTJTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


71 


CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR THE 
IMPROVEMENT OF CALCUTTA 


On the South: From this poiut running south- 
westwards in a straight line to the south-eastern 
corner of premises No. 21, Kalighat Road, from this 
point running westwards in a straight line to the 
south-western corner of premises No. 20, Kalighat 
Road. 


Notice under section 43 ol the Calcutta improvement 
Act 1911 (Bengal Act V of 191!) 

Calcutta, the 31st January 1962 

SCHEME No. LXXXV1 (KALIGHAT ROAD) 


On the West: From this point running north- 
wards in a straight line to the south-western corner 
of premises No. 21A, Balaram Bose Ghat Road; from 
this point running along the western boundaries of 
premises No. 21 A, Balaram Bose Ghat Road and 
14/1 A, Kedar Bose Lane to the starting point. 


h is notified under section 43 of the Ca'cuUa 
Improvement Act, 1911, that a Street Scheme lor .he 
pui pose of impioving means of communication and 
facilities for traffic, by winding a portion of Kalighat 
goad, to be known as Scheme No. LXXXVI (Kalighat 
Road), has been framed bv the Board of Trustees for 
the Improvement of Calcutta in the abnvL area within 
wards Nos. 67 and 70 of the Corporation of Calcutta. 

The boundary of the area comprised in the Scheme, 
shown within red verge on plan is as follows: 


The particulars of the Scheme, a plan showing the 
Scheme area and a statement of the lands proposed 
tor acquisition and for lew of betterment fee may be 
inspected at the office of the Trust at 10 Netaji 
Snbhas Road, Calcutta, between the hours 11 a.m. 
and $ n.m. on week days and between hours 11 a.m. 
ami 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 


Copies will be available on payment of the follow- 
ing fees: — 


Rs. 


On the North: Starting ironi the north-western 
erncr of premises No. 14/1 A, Kedat Bose Lane, 
mining eastwards along the noithcrn boundar.es of 
emiscs Nos. 14 /l A, Kedar Bose Lane and 21B 
Balaram Bose Chat Road to the north-eastern corner 
o, the latter; from this point running eastwards m a 
naight line to the north-western ccvnci of premises 
No. 2B, Kalighat Road; from this point running east- 
wards along the northern boundary of premises No. 
2D, Kalighat Road to its north-eastern corner; from 
this point runnmg eastwards for a distance of about 
22 feet along the northern boundary of premises 
Nos. 144A and 144B, Ashutosh Mukherjee Road, to 
a point where the above boundary line bends south- 
wards; Irom this point running eastwards in a 
straight line to the north-eastern corner of premises 
Nos. 144A and 144B, Ashutosh Mukherjee Road. 

On the East: From this point running south 
wds n a straight line to the north-eastern corner 
No. 4. Shvama Prasad Mukherjee Road 


Particulars and other information of 
the scheme 0.25 

Statement of land proposed for 
acquisition or for levy of betterment 
fee 0.25 

Plan of the Scheme area LOO 

Objections to the Scheme will be received up to 
12th May 1962. 

Under section 6 A of the Land Acquisition Act. 
1894, as introduced by the schedule to the Calcutta 
Improvement Act, 1911, as amended bv the West 
Bengal Act XXXII of 1955, the publication of this 
notice shall have the same effect as the publication 
of notification under section 4 of the Land Acquisi- 
tion Act 1894. 

K. SEN, 
Chairman 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, unvernment Printing, West, Bengal 
at the Went Bengal Government Prew«. Aiipore. 




Registered No. C207 







MAGHA 26 ] 


THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


[8AKA IhKJ 


PART II — Advertisements, Notices 

Procedure regarding tending Manuscripts for publication of Advertisements, Notices, oto., in the 

“Caloutta Gazette” (Part II). 

1. Manuscripts should be properly edited and complete in itself. 

2. Manuscripts should always be typewritten on one side of the paper. The name of signatory should be typewritten 
below the signature. 

3. Manuscripts intended for advertisement in the next issue of “Calcutta Gazette" shall be received by Publication Sales 
Office of New Secretariat Buildings, 1 Hastings Street, Calcutta, up to 3-30 p. m. on Friday and at Head Office at Alipore up to 
11 a. m. on Saturday. 

4. All costs shall be paid in advance and deposited along with the manuscripts. 

5. Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING (PUBLICATION 
BRANCH), WE8T BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS, ALIPORE. 

The press shall not be held responsible for delay in publication of any advertisement due to the non-ooservance of tb s 
Instructions deiaHed above. ~ 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 
Advertisement No. 6 

\ IMPLICATIONS arc' invited toi mulct mentioned posts 
I min Indian ciU/amis and persmi*. ol Indian origin migrated 
I mm Pakistan with intention of permanently settling in 
India, subjects ot Nepal, Sikkim or State ot Pondicherry, 
and persons domiciled in (Joa, Daman and Din. Age limits 
relaxable for Government servants except where otherwise 
specified. Upper age* limits relaxable by 5 years for Sche- 
duled Castes and Scheduled Tubes candidates. No relaxa- 
tion for (/thors, save jn exceptional circumstances, and will 
in no case be relaxed beyond three years. Qualifications 
relaxable at Commission’s discretion in case of candidates 
otherwise well qualified. Paitieulars and application forms 
obtainable from Secretary. Union Public Servico Commis- 
sion, Post B(/x No. 186, Now Delhi Request for forms 
mu&t specify name oi post and should be accompanied by 
self addressed unstamped envelope tor each post at least 
oi size 9"x4" indicating thereon name of posts for which 
tortus are required. Closing date for iccojpt of application 
with treasury receipt or crossed Indian Postal Older for 
Us 7.50 nP. (1.87 nP. for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes), the Pith March 1962 (26th March 19(72 for wppli- 
•mts from abroad). Separate application with separate 
ice required for each post. Candidates abroad may apply 

plain paper if forms are not available and deposit fee 
«’th local Indian Ktnhassy. ]f requited candidates must 
appear for personal interview. 

1 Assistant Employment Officer, Deltii Administration. 

1'ost temporary, but likely to continue. Post reserved for 
Scheduled Castes candidate, failing which fer Scheduled 
Irihus candidate, if such suitable candidate available, other- 
wise treated as unreserved. Pay: — Its. 270- 15—435. 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
f _andidntc. Age: — .To years and below. Qualifications: 
Essential — (i) Degree of a recognised university preferably 


in Economics oi Commerce, (ii) About two years’ experi- 
ence in a responsible capacity in Industrial or Uovorniiinnt 
esiahlishmont or ol work connected with organisation, 
employment oi welfare of labour. (id) Ability to spoak, 
read and write* Hindi fluently. 

2 . Two Assistant Station Directors, All India Radio, 
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Posts tempo- 
rary, but likely to heroine permanent. One post reserved 
for Scheduled Castes and the other fur Scheduled Tribes 
candidates, if such suitable candidates available; otherwise 
both posts tieated as unreserved. Pay: — Rs. 100 — 4(K) — 
150 — 30- -600—.% 670- E. B.- -35 -950. Age:— Between 

28 and 40 yeais. Qualifications : Essential— (ij Degree of 
a recognised university, (u) Intimate knowledge of litera- 
ture of at least one Indian language, (iii) Knowledge of 
India’s cultural heritage and of different forms of cultural 
and artistic expression in tho country (evidence' of publish- 
ed work to be furnished), (iv) Administrative knowledge 
or experience, evincing ability and capacity for organisa- 
tion. (v) Knowledge of current affairs. , 

:L Photographic Officer, Photo Division, Ministry of 
Information and Broadcasting. Post temporary, but hkelv 
fo continue Post reserved for Scheduled Castes /Tribes 
candidate, if such suitable candidate available, otherwise 
tieated as unresen ed. Pay*— Rs. 820— 10— 1 ,100-2>()/2 - 
1,17)0. Age: — 40 years and below. Qualifications: Essen- 
tial— (i) Sound general education. (ii) About 7 years’ 
experience in a supervisory capacity in a Photographic 
studio of repute, with proficiency in all branches of photo- 
graphy including news and colour photography, (m) Ado- 
quate knowledge of India’s history and culture and progress 
of planned development. 

4 Assistant Teohnioal Engineer Officer (Radiology), 
Armed Forces Medical Stores Depots, Ministry of Defenoe. 

Post temporary but likely to continue indefinitely. p os t 
reserved for Scheduled Castes candidate if such suitable 


71) 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


l Part u 


(-undulate is available, otherwise floated unreserved. Pay: 
—Its. :iT>{> — 25 -500- :«j — 590 E. B. — AO — 800. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age: — Below ;*5 years. Qualifications^ Essential— 
0) Degree or equivalent diploma in Electrical Engineering 
o) recognised University / Institute, (n) About three years* 
practical experience in the repair and servicing department 
ol a recognised firm dealing in X-ray Electro-Cardiograph 
Machines. 

5. One Modical Inspector of Factories, Delhi Adminis- 
tration. Dost temporary -but likolv to continue and be 
retained on permanent hasia. Post reserved for Scheduled 
Castes /Tribes candidate; it no such suitable eandidato 
available, will be treated as unreserved. Pay:— Its. A75— 
25 — 500 — AO — 590 — E. B. — AO— I3.A0. Private practice ol any 
kind will not be allowed. Higher initial pay to specially 
qualified arid experienced candidate. Age: — )i0 years and 
bohnr. Qualifications: Essential — (n A Medical qualifica- 
tion mclud(»d in the First or Second Schedule or Part IT 
ol Third Schedule to the Indian Modical Council Act, 1966. 

[ Persons possessing qualifications included in Part 11 of 
Third Schedule should also fulfil the conditions relating to 
regisl ration specified in section 15(A) erf the Act. | 
(li) Practical knowledge and experience of Industrial 
Health problems. 

6. One Leoturer in Ophthalmology, Medical College, 
Pondicherry, Ministry of Health. Post temporary hut 
likely to continue and he made nernuinout. Pay:— Its. 5A0 

AO — 050 plus non-practising allowance of 25 per cent, ol 
pay, subject to a minimum of Its. 150 per month. Pnvate 
practice of any kind will not he allowed. Higher initial 
pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age: 
— A5 3 ears and helow. Qualifications: Essential — (i) A 
.Medical qualification included m Hie First or Second Sche- 
dule or Part II ol Third Schedule to the Indian Medical 
Council Ac!. 1950. [Persons possessing qualifications includ- 
ed in Part II ol Third Schedule should also lulfil the 
conditions relating to registration specified in section 1A(A) 
ot the Act. | (ii) Post-graduate/ ^Research Degree or 
Diploma, e g , D.O. or D.O.M.S (in) About three years’ 
expci lence ol teaching as Lecturer / De limns t rater /Registrar 
in Ophthalmology in a medical teaching institution. 

7. Assistant Manager, Central Braille Press, Dehra Dun, 

Ministry of Education. Post permanent and reserved lor 
Scheduled ( 'axtes/ Tribes candidate, it such suitable candi- 
date available; otherwise treated as unreserved. Pay: — 
Its. A50 25 5 75. Higher initial pay to specially qualified 

and experienced candidate. Age: -Between 25 and A5 
y nai s. Qualifications: Essential (i) Degree of a recognised 
university. < 1 1 ) Adequate practical experience ol work in 
a | Hinting press 


s. One Planning Officer, Directorate of Social Welfare, 
Delhi Administration. Post temporary hut likely to conti- 
nue Post reserved for Scheduled ( 'astes/Tribes candidate, 
i! no such suitable candidate' available, will he treated as 
unreserved. Pay:— Rs. A25 — 15- 175— E. B 2(1—576. 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate. Age: — A5 years and below’ Qualifications: 
Essential — (i) Degree of a recognised University in a 
Social Science subject, e.g., Sociology, Ps\ etiology, Econo- 
mics (n) Post-graduate Degree or Diploma in Social Woik 
or Social Administration of a recognised l ni\ ersity/ Instil u- 
tion. Or About three years’ experience of work in a 
supervisory capacity in an institution for social jscrvi'cs or 
sonal welfare (m) Knowledge of Hindi. 


9. One Superintendent, School and Home for the Men- 

tally Retarded Persons, Delhi Administration. Post tem 
porary hut likely to (ontimie Post reservi'd for Scheduled 
Castes/ I rihes candidate, il no such suitable candidate* 
available, will bo treated as unreserved. Pay: — Its. 125 

2o— oUl) AO- ,6S(). Higher initial j»av to specially qualified 
and experienced candidate. Age: — .*15 years and helow. 
Qualifications: Essential — (i) Master’s Degree m Psveho- 
logy with Degree or Diploma in Education of a recognised 
I niversity. Or blaster’s degree in Education (with specia- 
lisation. in Education of the Mentally Retarded), (u) About 
three years’ experience in teaching or administration, pre- 
lerably in an institution for the mentally retarded. 

10. One Senior Scientific OfPcer, Grade I, Research and 

Development Organisation, Ministry of Defenoe. Post tem- 
pfirary hut hkelv to become permanent. Pay: — Rs 700 

50 1,250. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 


experienced candidate. Age: - - Preferably above Af> \>a, Jh 
lor all including (Government servants. Qualifications- 
Essential — (i) At least second class Master's degico in |; 1(J ’ 
chemistry ot a recognised U mvci sit y/ Institution, or 
vah'ut. (ii) About five years’ research exjienence in ^- J(j 
field oi Biochemistry. 

11. Deputy Director, Public Relations, Department of 
Public Relations and Tourism, Himachal Pradesh Adminis- 
tration. Post temporary, hut likely to become periuunciu. 
Pay: — Rs. 500 — 25 — 050 — A0 — 800. Hjghei initial pay - Lu 
specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age: - j; 
yew s and below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) Degree ot fl 
recognised University, (n) About five years’ experience n, 
a responsihh* capacity in a newspaper, news agency oi puj, 
licity /public relations organisation of standing. 

12. Senior Marketing Officer, Directorate of Marketing 
and Inspection, Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Depart- 
ment Of Agriculture). Posl Lpmporurv , hut likely to urnti- 
nue indefinitely. Pay: — Rs. 7(H) 10 1,100 -50/2 — |,25fj 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and expeueiuci! 
< andidaU 1 Age: — 40 years and helow, for all mcliulmc 
(Government servants. Qualifications: Essential — (i) Dcgioc 
in Agricultural Science or Economics or Comme! i c ( ,f 
recognised iniiversit.y , or equivalent. ( 1 1 ) About .-.even 
yeais’ experience ol journalistic / publicity work undei (Go\- 
cj mnciil oi in a news ageuev or pubheitv organisation ot 
standing, including experience ol processing and pieseuuug 
marketnig intc/rmatiou. 

I A. (d) Two Divisional Engineer Consultants (Mechani- 
cal) and (b) two Assistant Engineer Consultants (Mech.), 
Ministry ol Transr>ort and Communications. Posts tempi, 
rury hut likely to toutinue Posts reserved lor Scheduleil 
( asles/Tribes candidates il such .suitable candidate's \hv 
available, otherwise treated umesorved. Pay:-~(a) Rs. 700 

ID 1,1(10—50/2— 1,25(1. (h) Rs -100 — 100 — 150 A0- (KM 

A5 070 E B. ; 15— 950. Higher initial pay to spenalh 
qiifililied and (*xp(‘n<'nc<*d candidates Age: (a) A5 \e.ii> 
and below v h ) Ad yeais and hch/w Qualifications: Essen- 
tial — O) Dogjvc in mccliunnal engined mg of a recognised 
university <u equivalent. (ii) Must have served as an 
appicnticc in Mechanical Engineering w T orks (in) H ( 
\')*»ut 5 veals’ cxpei iciice tor (a) and A years tor (h) in . 
icsponsihlc capacity in the miming and muiiitonam i oi 
iimm hanical < oust i net mi) equipment on big, projects. (2) h.'. 
peiu'iice in large scab' icpan woik and handling ol stmch 

I 1 One Dietician, Safdarjang Hospital, New Delhi, 
Directorate General of Health Services. Post tcmnonii, 
but likely to < out i ii in*. Pay: — Rs A90--20 — 150 -25 1 7 • 

Higher initial pay to specially qualified and expei innvi> 
candidate. Age: A5 years and helow Qualifications: 
Fssential h) At least Second Class Degree in Home Ecu 
nomas or Home Science with Nutiitmn as a special sulijcii 
of a« retogni.ed Umvcisitv in) Post graduate framing and 
about two yeais’ experience m Dietetics Depot t men I of a 
hospital. 

15. One Lady Medical Officer (Assistant Surgeon, Grade 
0, Survey of India Dispensary, Hathibarkala, Dehra Dun. 

Post, temporary hut likely to he retained on permanent 
basis Post resened for Scheduled Castes candidate, if m 
such suitable candidate available, will he treated as un- 
resolved Pay:— Rs. A25- 25 500 - AO 590— E B.— All - 
800 (A suitable mm-practising allowance up to the maximum 
of Rs 150 per month may ho granted’). Piivatc praituc 
of nnv kind will not be allowed Higher initial pay to 
specially uunlified and experienced candidate Age: -55 
years and helow Qualifications: Essential -A Medical 
qualifn at ion included in the First m Second Schedule oi 
Part TT of Third Schedule to tlie Indian Medieul Council 
Ml, 195(5 (Persons possessing qualifications included m 
Part II of Third Schedule should also fulfil the conditions 
i elating to registration speeded in section IA(A) o*l tl.e 
Act. | ( 1 1 > About two years’ experience as House Surgeon 

or m private practice 


16. One Interpreter-oum-Translator in Persian, Ministry 
of External Affairs. Post permanent hut appointment will 
he made on temporary Irakis Post reserved for Scheduled 
Tribes /Castes candidate, if no such suitable candidate 
available, will be treated as umesorved Pay: — Rs A25 - 
15— 475 - E. B. — 20 575 Higher initial pay to special!' 
qualified and experienced candidate. Age:- 10 years and 
below. QualHtoatKtosi Essential— (i) Degree of a recognised 



TI1K CALCUTTA (1AZKTTK, FEBRUARY 15, 1%2 


71 


,ir i 


HI 



^,| N (n) FumdiiHTl y with modern JVrsiau. 

I 1 \ liowi two years’ expeneme in teaching JVrsian or 
j i< uni / ml erpielation work lrum I’oibiaii ink) English 

,i y wc*' eTSii . 

r One Farm Superintendent, Central Mechanised Farm, 
istry of Food and Agrioulture. l\>st temporary but 
n v lu continue indefinitely. i’ost reserved lor Scheduled 
Xnbes candidate if such suitable candidate is avail- 
] 1 (1 }]cn\ ise treated unreserved. Pays Its. 100 lot) - 

II |ji)()_ „.95 — 670 — E. B.— 95 — 950. Higher initial pay 
, t )( ,]K qualified and experienced candidate. Age: — 

^'L„ .5 and 15 years. Qualifications: Essential— (i) 
hi \gt lcultuie ot loeogmsed University. (n) About 
‘ lM ,s’ practical experience in mechanised tanning in » 
or Stale or private Farm. 

:H One Professor of History, Indian Aid Mission, Nepal, 
nistry of External Affairs. Post tempoiary and tin* 
,i ,,| appointment will be two tears in the first 
r pay:— Jis. lKK)-4>0Un,2l)O (Hex ised) plus Nepal 
L sm .,. nl’ Its. -50 per month it married, otherwise 
i tl j ‘,(i nP. per month. Higher initial pay to specially 
,; !n d and experienced candidate. Age: Biddably below 
w . a ,^ Cm all including CJovernmcnt servants. Qu&lifica- 
ps: Essential — (i) Doctorate in Uistorv »f a recognised 

io , | . 1 1 ,\ . (li) About ten tears’ experience oi teaching 
j. ^ladnato studonts and/or research experience. 

|.> two Lecturers In English, Indian Aid Mission, Nepal, 
Lbtry of External Affairs. Post temporary and the 
Ll ot appointment will be two yews in the first instance. 
y : pv, ;ii?5 — 20 1125—25 — 575 plus Nepal allowance ot 

>W per month il married, otherwise Ks. 155 per month, 
fci initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
i,!„j,itrs Age: — >55 > ears and below. Qualifications : 

lential 0) A I least Second Class Master’s or equivalent 

ip, Hi Degree m English o| a recognised University. 

\ limit five a ea i s’ experience ol leaching post-graduate 

5 i ' 


(a> Two T.B. Officers, Coal Mines Labour Welfare 
rt, and (b) two T.B. Officers, Mica Mines Labour 
tare Fund, Ministry of Health. Posts temporary hut 
in lie retained on poinian.ml basis Posts (a) are 
■ id lm Scheduled Uaste'- /Trihe.-s candidate: if no such 
• lc i .i-ndidatc" available. all posts treated as unreserved 
; 925 --25—500—90 - 590— F IF— 90 -800 plus 

"iiHi me allowance of 25 per rent of pay, subject to 
. mi. urn of TU 150 per montli Private practice ot 
'vi»u' will not he allowed Higher initial pav tn speci- 
' i'.tIiIum] ; ht i (1 exporieneod candidates Age: — 90 years 

ii Ihu Qualifications: Fr.scntial (>) \ Medical quali 
m in* hided m the Fit si oi Second Schedule or Part 
>' Tlurd Schedule to tin* Indian Medical (V'uneil \rt, 

I Pei ‘on.*, possessing qnahhrat ions included in Part, 
hind Schedule should a»Fo lulfil the conditions relating, 
21 lr.it nm ^pecjfieil m sc< ! ion 19(9) ol the Act. | (li) 
i t'uee seals’ experience in healment ot Tuhereulosis 
Smjitoiuini or T.B. (Minir. 


One Assistant Plant Pathologist (Mushroom) in the 
moment of Agriculture, Himachal Pradesh Administra- 
t'd temporary hut likelv to continue. Other things 
- '''I'inl Scheduled f 'n»st<*s/ Tribes candidate would he 
"I Pay: Rs 250 — 25 550 25 750 Higher ini- 

io specially qualified and experienced candidate 
: -How 95 a ears Qualifications: Essential 00 
' i rh».*rec in Agriculture of recognised TTniA r ersit v 
ihn! Pathology as a special subject (Or) \ rsnciate 
^ P T in Plant Pathology (ii) About twa years’ 

' ,lM ’ °t research in Plant Pathology. 


i Ar,sls t a nt Editor (Hindi and English), Central 
1 ,, catlon Bureau » Directorate General of Health 

' I nst temporary, hut hkelv to continue Pay:- 
[*' V)0_ 9(K_5nO- E B 50 800. Higher initial 
d' ! iH.v qualified and experienced candidate. Age: 
. lT V :,lfs and below Qualifications: Essential fit 

)\ K hr equivalent Hr/nours degree m Hindi of a recog- 
f l | ll t' 1V °l> S ^ V 9 r ^ r,pn ^ r *^ qualification in Hindi such 
; p f ‘ ;, hia with a T)ogr»e of a recognised nniversitv 
, j 1U< throe vears 1 experience of writing, editing a*nd 
Lv, ri 9°Pular magazine, preferably on technical or 
firW. jL s ^ ll[) T'i^rary ability in Hindi and English 
Hw&ced by published work. 


25. Eight Assistant Surgeons (Grade I), Indian Aid 
Mission, Nepal. Posts tempotaiA hut likeh to couiuiue. 
Pay:— Its 525- 25- -500 90-590- K. B. -’-50- S00 plus 
uon-pruct using allowance of 25 per cent <5 pay , siihject to 
a minimum ol Its 150 per nionih and maximum ol IF. 200 
per month. In addition, Nepal allowance on the tallowing 
lutes will he admissible: — 

Mamed— Rs 250 per meuMiu, Single,— Rs. 155 per 

mensem. 

blamed — Its. 215 per mensem; Singh* Its 110 per 
mensem (for pay between IN 620-800), 

Private practice ol any kind amII not he allowed Higher 
initial pav to specially quulilied ami expcneiucd (undulates. 
Age: — .50 years sml below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) A 
Medical cpialifu atom included m the First oi Second Sche- 
dule or Part II ol I liird Schedule to the Indian Medical 
Council Act, 1956. [Persons possessing qualiiicat ions in- 
cluded in Part II ol Third Schedule should also I wild the 
conditions relating to legistratum specified m section 15(5) 
ol the Act | (ii) About two years’ experience as House 
Surgeon or in private practice. 

21 Ono Director, Anthropological Survey of India, 
Calcutta, Ministry of Scientific Research and Cultural 
Affairs. Post, permanent and reserved lor Scheduled Castes/ 
Tribe* candidate; il no such suitable t.mdid.iie av.nl, ihlo. 
will bo treated as unreserved. Pay: -Rs. 1,900 —60 1,600. 

Higher initial pay to speeialh qualified and experienced 
candidate. Age; — Preterably below 50 years lor all mclud 
mg (Joa eminent sen: mi is. Qualifications: Essential -(H 
Mast ci ’s DegriM* in Ant hropology of a n*cognised Univer 
sit> , oi e<piiA r alent . (ii) Evidence, including published uoik 
of important coni i ilnit ions made m Anthropology (lii) F\ 
perience ol leading large field parties among tribal popula- 
tion. (iv) Administrative experience. 


PUBLIC 8ER VICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 
General Instructions to candidates applying In response te 
advertisements issued by the Commission for recruit- 
ment to posts of “Selection”. 

(1) Instructions regarding submission of application. 

applications are to ho made on the prescribed (orni which 
will ho available from the office of the Public Service Com- 
mission, West. Bengal, Anderson llouoe (ground floor). 
Ah pore, Calcutta^, personally or on sending a largo «o)f- 
addressed enveh/po with stamps sufficient to cover the 
postage affixed to it Candidates who am unable to obtain 

copies of the pi escribed form mav apply on any similar 
typed (not handwritten) form showing exactly the word 
mg «>nd spacing of the sample form published in the 
“Calcutta dazette” of the 1st September 1955, provided 
tin* blanks art' tilled up in the candidates 1 own handwriting 

(2) Particulars and certificates required. — Candidates 

should furnish evidence of their ago, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date ol their applications, 
‘rom responsible persons, testifying to their privnte 
h:ir« oter. 


The Commission accepts only the age of a candidate fcs 
tecordod in the Matnculatimi or the Secondary School 
Final/Leaving Certificate In the , ase ol a lem.de candi- 
date whose ago is not recorded in tin* Matriculation or 
S t hool Final Certificate, anv of tin* following evidence of 
uj'o is accepted by the Commission: — 

1. A certificate from the Hendmistioss of the school 

which she last attended, slic/wing her exact age as 
recorded in the school register. 

2. An affidavit, regarding her age sworn by her Mither 

or mother or some other person in a position to 
know bv having been present or heard of her birth 
at the time of occurrence. 

5. \ certificate regarding her age, from a Member nf 

the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who must, 
hare known the candidate and her family indicat- 
ing clearly the evidence on the basis of which he/ 
she satisfied himself /herself on the point. 


Til JO CALCUTTA CiAZKTTJS, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 




(6) Fee.- Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a tee of lie. 6 in the form of a receipted chalun 
Horn a Government Treasury or the Reserve Rank of India 
under the head “XXXVI— Miscellaneous — Receipts of the 
I’uidic Service Commission, West Rental”. Money order*, 
cheques, etc., in lieu of treasury challans are not accepted 
Postal order, however, may bo accepted from candidates 
They should ho crossed and made payable to “The Secre- 
tin Public Service Commission, West Rental”. No apph- 
cat uni will he considered unless accompanied with the 
mpusito application fee. 

(Candidates abroad may deposit their application fees 
with the High Commissioner of India or the Embassy, as 
the cuse may he, and obtain receipts tor the same, which 
will have to he attached to their applications to he sub- 
mitted to the Commission. 

Candidates in Government service should make •jure 
Indore depositing fee that their applications will be forward- 
ed by their superior officers. In no case will the fee paid 
vuth the application be refunded. 

The Commission may remit lee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced person from Pakistan. 

An indigent displaced person shall, iu the first instance, 
pay the application tee prescribed lor a gazetted post 
advertised by the Commission but if he/she is selected for 
and appears at the luterview, the fee paid by him/her will 
be refunded alterwards. 

Note, “(i) A displaced person claiming ago cun cession 
must iuinirdi with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is bona fide displaced pci, son iiom Pakistan, e.g , 
t chigoe registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original. 

( 11 ) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his appli- 
oatimi a certificate in original from a gazetted officer or a 
Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging to 
file Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 

(m) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion loo must furnish besides tin* evidence required under 
Note (0 above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or a Mom her of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that lie is not, in a position to 
pay tin* prescribed fee.” 

(1) Address.— Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 

(5) Canvassing. — Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneous reroimnendation from 
jiersons interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them wdl he disregarded. 

((>) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under swiv Government, a local 
cu»» Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation), in 
India will he rejected unless thev are submitted through 
tlio appointing authority of their posts or service. 

Candidates serving under Government or a local or 
Statutory Body should submit an advance copy in the pres- 
cribed form. The application fee should in such cases be 
attached to the advance copy and not to the original. The 
candidature of such applicants may not however bo con- 
sidoied if the original applications do not roach the Com- 
mission's office within a fortnight from the closing date. 
Unless applications in original or advance copies with 
application fees are received within the cloaing date, late 
applications may he rejected. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Advertisement No. 7 

APPLICATIONS are invited fioni Indian citizen r 
temporary post ui Special Officer for the Technologies ' 
Fresh Water Grow More Food Scheme under the DirJ 
rate of Fisheries, West Bengal. Women unsuitable p 
— Rs. ;MM) - 30 — IKK) (E.B. after 8th and 16th stages) 
a special pay of Rs. 75 per month. In case ot 
a* person already in service, bis pay will be fixed 
mg to the circumstances of the case. 1 

Qualifications: Essential— (i) At least a second , 
Muster's or Honours degree in Zoology, Pure or \. . 
Chemistry, or Rio-Cheimstry , Or, a degree m p Js i 
Technology of a recognised University; (ii) Three yea 
experience m Culture and Capture Fisheries, Desirabk 
(i) Research experience in applied branches of fish 
lion or Fish Technology; (ii) Administrative 1 c\j )eriei 
and ability; (m) Knowledge of Bengali--- spoken 
written. Ago: - Not more than 10 years on the 
December 1062, rolaxablo for specially well quality t 
experienced candidate. 

The age limit is also rolaxablo by five years for Sclicdu 
Castes /Tribes and up to 15 years for displaced j,< Tm 
from Pakistan. 

A candidate who before the 15th August l!R7 ^ 
detained, imprisoned, interned or ox turned on invount 
his acthiiio.s in connection with file country’s struggp. 
independence, not being convicted ol an offence i ndn at 
moral tuipitude, xh;>ll lie entitled to a entice , ssmiu in r 
pect. of the age limit. The concession gi anted \w\\ 
equal to the exact period ol detention, inipriMnuiiH 
internnient or externment suflerod up to a niuunnnn 
lour years. 

Appl> to Secretary with a Treasury Chalan ni \\, 
under head “XXXV! Miscellaneous - Receipts o' l‘i||j 
Service Commission, West Bengal”, or d (Tossed TW 
Order ot Rs. 5 payable to “Secretary, Pnbln SenJ 
Commissit/n, West Bengal' ’. Ovorsoas candidate^ i 
deposit their application lees with the High 
of India or the Indian Embassy, as the case ni,>\ j 
Particulars and prescribed application forms arc obtains 
from the office of the Commission, Anderson House ( groii 
floor). Allpore, On lent ta-27, personally or on sending 
self-addressed envelope (size 10" x(>") with postage fUJ 
ot 65 nP. and the name of the post superscrib'd mi j 
envelope. Those who intend to take application for 
and/or submit the applications personally, should dol 
lief ween 10-15 a.m. wild 8-00 p.m, r/n full woikmn ill 
and between 10-15 a.m and 12-60 p.m. on Sittiinl.io l 

Closing date— The 3rd March 1962. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West l ,,! 

Alipore, the 61st January 1962. 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE Of 
24-PARGANAS 

Insolvency Case No. 3 of 1962 

Anil Kumar Bose, residing at No. 76/ A, Amhord R 
( alcuUa -Creditor- Applicant. 

To J\otirinoy Nag Chowdhury <vt Arhalia, police sw* 
Bas i rh a t — Debtor 

ON the 5th day ol February 1962 it was ordered i 
the matter of the petition of the applicant he hen* 
the 12th day of March 1962 and that the said apP 1 
to attend to he examined hv this Court on that dab* 

S. SKN GUPTA, Dis ln<l •>"<! 

I 

Ahpore. tne 6tn February 1962. 


Alipore, the 27th January 196i. 


TTI K CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 






u -UP 4TH COURT OF THE 8UB-JUDQE OF 
,N T 24-PARGANAS 

insolvency Case No. 6 of 1962 

1 il \ganvala of No. 2, Marquis Street, Calcutta-] G, 
- Applicant. 

■ pi n < 1 1 ] > Kumar (Julia. (2) Nunda Kiinmr Misra. 
1 |), pt , Bliusan Sen Gnpl a, all ol T)(i, Maharaja 

^' WM | ;| ivumai Hoad, Mamba/ar, police station Ba-raha 
mt Debtor*. 

. -Jtnl dav o| Felnunry I VH>‘J il was ordered tlial 
1 ( ' l(1 , ,,| Die petition ol the applicant he heard on 

,,f M a i di 1M>2 and that the said applicant to 
, . | h ■ examined b\ this Court on that date 

n. g chapdhphi, Sub-Judge 

,, |M , the nth Kebnmrv 11H>2. 

(MS- 1) 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 

Insolvency Caso No. 7 of 1962 

l|in Mu* o| Badhai Khansama’s House, Bansbagan, 
hio-aih. police-station Titagarh, Debtor Applicant,. 

)»„„ 8,,kel Si iijj.1i and 10 others ol A. P. Devi Hoad, 
j.olh e station TtLagath- Cl editors. 

)\' \ lie 2nd da\ of February liM>2 it. wils ordered that 
ni,] 1 1 o i Ol t Ik petitnm ol the applicant lie hoard on 
-■il, ,|:,\ el March PM>2 and that the said applicant 
,,0 1,(1 to tie examined by tins Com I on that da*te. 

N. («. ('ll AH Dll PHI, Sub-Judge 
, ,o tli.< Alii I'ehruarv 1*102. 

(HD- 1 ) 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 

Insolvency Case No. 5 of 1962 

• ,ii| V:Mrw ala ol No. 2. Manpiis Street, Calent ta-lG, 
( H-tlum - \pplieant. 

-lit) A Johnson, (2) Mis C J. /Johnson ol 211/10, 
l,u\\i i < iKidai Hoad, police station Karaya, district 
M i'.u Lianas, I lehtors. 

>\ il,.' 2nd da\ of Kohiuaiy I IK 12 it wsvs ordered that 
in 1 1 1 ei ol the petition ol t la* applicant h<* heard on 
"il- .1;* x of March PK>2 and that the said applicant 
cii nd to he examined by this Court on that du»te. 

N C. CII VUDIUTHI, Sub Judge 

l*«o 1 • . i he Alh February BH>2. 

(1.10- -1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
HOOGHLY 

Insolvency Caso No. 3 of 1961 

^ (| !PT. is hereby given that Shn Dharani Dluvr Ghosh, 
"! I ‘ • i < * Duriodlioia* Ghosh, of Itachuna, police-station 
'■ 1,1 *k distnet llooghly, w is ndpidgod insolvent on 
11 J < h u:i i \ ] <){;*_> and that he has been directed to a-pply 
l|M 'l discharge wit, bin one veai tmm the date nl 

1 ' ’'"it Kill 

A. SY A M , District Judge. 

(144—1) 


c%t® 

-5|W»F5 <?pWftff, CT*ll C*l5fat?l 

vftNg^Hl sfCTOIW.* TOTCdl dll ITT >110-14 aqJI 

ssifa™ esmti v f'TOM'dl >R 

*rrr.«n umi ^ a w i ^ ^ 

01I«,IC‘74 fdMfafaS VttT$W 4dl*M v d 

C^ft^lvb HC*1I 5 ilOij ^>8^" v£1-1n >1H Ntl/ 

CSTTCIffTO <Y<e]\ >TlWd *H«1 H WOT/I* *Ad\ Jih'.v 

Wen ** srf&W Wl t\£ Wd5TO ilPtld’-t 
a^i»n U<m s^itt >r >irc^ y*u ^*,,3 

snb" vst^t-n c-ditc't ^rrai i pi 

$s?raT i 

21^1*1 etw m, ^544 ?itW 

Ci4T wifasi $ s mz 

<i ^tiww *n\m $hus i c^Ut^ 

vriht^ 5 ^: 4 1 m$<\ i>fh cttvs \m chsto 

5f4I ?r“4 >p-^ HI M1W-C4 41J't^W.4 M-iT-l 

'bi^r.'A r.«T«?n hi i ^ - 




^ 1 

Cb\$) CR?, WT 

^ 1 

C TRI < tWn>T 

0 1 

«thi Twt^t 

8 1 

v(Rl kH5lG’l 

A 1 

C*lVwr4l, TOT W*ffTI?T 

1 

tot 

q t 

44TttT4n5l f CTRT 

b 1 1 

°fRT f*RTIlJr 

1 

$m\, tot fwr^T 

^>0 1 

^?1 «T'v5 TOT 

i 

Sr 14^1 *t4oTI, TOTT TbHSdftT 

t 

440RT, TOT T>txtn5; 

^>0 1 

^t«tto c71TT<it^t, ^-ttht Tc-t^ttTi 

*8 1 

C^irT^^, wi Tto;t^i 

^>A 1 

CTOvbl*^, pfRT f*eTTT^T 

1 

TOT fcKSTfrT 

^q i 

51b, TOT f^tH^T^T 

^>1 1 1 

Sn$, «TRT T>l>ol? 

i 

«[RT Wdi l(Jl 

^0 1 

if*! CTO§, ®TTH1 

:?* i 

TOT^fv?, CITHT TTO^rnTT 

t 

TOI ItRCrfr 

^0 1 

tfTf>tTO ^>T, »(RT f^Tbl 

^8*1 

•TdcrHlM, ®TRT ^rib‘1 

^ A 1 

5nfelTT$, «rRT TVIMt^T 

^ 1 

4^C«l^TTOl, ?iht YTO^TtSH 

^q i 

>MT^TO1, TOT faTO id 

t 

-n^lTOT, TOT fwijl 

$«\> t 

^TO'JTI, ^lldl IW : Tl?I 


<ii;i -fl*I 41. 

'-[i 'RlxfPl'f I 



74 


THK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 




[Company Petition No. 16 oi 1962] 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 


ORDINARY ORIGINAL 

In the matter of the 


CIVIL JURISDICTION 

Companies Act, 1959 


And 


In the matter of section 430 of the said Act 


And 

In the matter of The New Theatres Private Limited 


Praha \ Chandra Mitn* and another, Petitioners 


Advertisement of Petition 

NOTICE is hoieby given that a petitiem for the 
u iiiding-iip ol Die abovenamed Company hy tin* High 
Court at Calcutta was on the mh day of January 1962 
presented to tl»e sand 1 Jon’ hie Court bv Shri Prakas 
Clinndia Mitra of No. 22, Cockier Lane, Calcuttft-29, and 
anothei , creditors of the* said (’ompany and that the said 
petition in directed to he heard before the said Court on 
the 19th day oi March 1962. 

Any, creditor, eontrihutory or other person desirous of 
suppoiting or opposing the making of an order on the said 
petition should send to the petitioners or their attorney 
not icc oi his intention signed hy bun or his Advocate or 
Attornc> witii his name and address, so as to reach the 
petitioners m their Attorney not later than 5 days before 
t ho date iixed tor the hearing oi the petition, a-nd appear 
at the hearing tor the purpose in persofn or by his Advocate' 
or Attorney. A copy oi the petition will he furnished hy 
the undersigned to any creditor m contributory on .payment 
o| prescribed charges for the same. 

Anv affidavit intended to he used in opposition to the 
petition should he filed in Court, and a copy served on the 
petitioners or their Attorney, not less than 5 days before 
the date fixed for the hearing. 


AMARENDRA NATH BORE, 
Attorney for the petitioner. 

12/1 Old Rost Office Street, 

Calcutta-1, dated the Utli February 1962. 

(146- 1) 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
(IN INSOLVENCY) 

NO. 7 Of 1949 

Re.: Barkutram Tandon 

NOTICE is hereby given that hy ail Order ,,f ( 
dated the 12th September 1961, the Order of Adpid,,..,/ 
made herein on the 14th September 1948 was annulE,*] 

M. M. CHAKR\!!\i rh 

Official Assignee oi 0 a j n ., 

6 Council House Street, 

Calcutta, the 2nd Eehruary 1962. 


HTMADR1 SANKAR MAJEVDAR, MA, U 
intends to lx* enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High 


(Ol 


l*R ATYUSII KUM AR M AJUA1 DAR, II (’on, , |j 
intends L> he enrolled as an Advocate, ( ‘;i l . High (‘ 1 , 1 , 1 , 

(7(i 


SHKI SYAMA KANTA GIIOSIIAL, LL.B., mi.im. 
he enrolled as an Advocate ol the' CuleuUa lOgh (mum 

1 7 ' 


SANT1MOY BASE. B.COM., I.h II intends i„ 
enrolled as an Advocate oi the Calcutta High Couit 


[Company Petition No 12 of 1962] 

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
ORIGINAL JURISDICTION 
IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, 1056 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF INDIA CYCLE MANUFACTURING 
CO. LTD. 

Kapur Brothers, Petitioner 

NOTICE is hereby given that a petition lor winding up 
of the ahovenanied company by the High Court, Calcutta, 
was on the 18th January 1962 presented to the said Court 
hy Messrs. Kanur Bros, of No. 160, Dharamtolla Street, 
Calcutta, a ci editor of the company and that the said 
petition is directed to he heard before the Court on the’ 
Pith March J962. Any creditor, contributory or other 
person desirous ot supporting or opposing the making ol 
an order cm the mud petition will send to the petitioner 
or its solicitors notice of his intention signed hy him or 
his Advocate with his name and address, so as to roach 
the petitioner or its Solicitors not later than five days 
bo i the elate fixed for hearing of the petition, and appoi- 
nt the hearing for the purpose in person or hy his advocate. 
A copy of the petition will ho furnished by the under- 
signed to any creditor or contributory on payment of the 
proscribed charges for the fiarno. 

Any affidavit in opposition to the petition shall be filed 
in Court and a copy served on the petitioner or its Soli- 
citors not later than five days before the date fixed for 
the hearing. 

Dated I lie 11th day of Fehmary 1962. 

NAHAR A DATTA, 
Attorneys for the petitioner. 

Ill Old Post Office Street, Calcutta. 


(TRSETJ EE MANACKJEE RESTOMJEE, LM! 
tends to he* enrolled as an Advocate n| (lie Cal lligli On 

(8a 


RIP! SUDAN PR ASAD Cl I A U 1)11 U IH . LL IE ink 
to lx* enrolled as an \dvocate ol 1 lie (ahulla High t ■» 

Ol 


JUGAL KISTIORE JETHALIA, LL R., intends O 
enrolled as an Advocate ol the* Caleulla High Coiut 


LALTA PRASAD TIVVAR1, LL.IJ. intends to he run 
as an Advocate ol tin* Calcutta llurh Couit. 


DERGA SANKAR MELTJCK, LL.B., intend-, to 
enrolled as an Advocate ol the (’ahulla limb Comt 

<*1 


SWADH1N KUMAR (SEPTA, UU.R . intends f" 

enrolled as an Advocate* ol 1 he* Calcutta High (cut 

(8V 


(164 — 1) 



p A nr nj 


TUT! CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


75 


SHRI SIBAPRASANNA SINHA, B.L., intends to be 
trolled »s an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 
rt,r (86 — 1) 


MtniTKNnrSEKHAR OH ATOHURI. U,.R.. intends 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 


'PI MIR KUMAR RAY, Id, 11.. intends In be enrolled ns 
.... Advocate <>f the Oaleulta High Court. 

( ini i\ 


DIUP KTTMAft DA ft fJTTpTA. T/L.1L. intends to he 
on rolled its an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court,. 


(102 - 1 ) 


0(1 


N.UJ \RMAL AGRAWAL. LL.TL. intends to be enroll- 
iiH an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(103 


HARLALKA BROTHERS PRIVATE LTD. 

Notioe 

NOTICK is hereby given that an e\ti aordinary genet ail 
meeting ot the Members of the Company will be belli on 
Wednesday the 1 4 tli March 100:2 at 3 p.m. at the Rogis- 
tered Offiee of the Company at No. 7, Ramkumar Hakim 
Lane, Calcutta*, to consider the tollowing 

(1) I'o receive and adopt il approved the statement of 
affairs of the eompanv as at Sth Felnuaiy 1 0< »‘J 
and a list ol rtedilor on that date a*ml the esti 
matiMl amount ol their claims 

(-) That the eouipany is iifiahle to pay its debts and 
that I he! e are no suffi< loll! assets with tin* com- 
pany ;wnl the eoinpam is unable to earn on its 
business and as such the company la' sent into 
eieditors \olmitan winding up. 

Cl) To appoint Liquidator and ti\ up bis remuneration 
for winding up the eouipan\ as a Creditors \olun 
tary winding up. 

(t) To consider any other mat tot that m ;>\ be 

necessary. 


1HM AH KUMAR, DATTA, LL.JL, intends to be enrolled 
•is an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 104 — 4 ) 


DTTJP KITMAR MTTK HOP A DFf A 7 A Y , LL.B., intends 
ii# be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court 

(10f>— 4) 


KEDAH’ NATH CH 4TTOPADHYAV, TLL.. intends 1o 
he enrolled as an Advocate. Calcutta High Court. 

( 100 — 1 ) 


lly order of the Hoard, 
F1TLCH AND HARLALKA, 
Managing Director. 

Dated Calcutta, the 8tb February D(>2. 

Note. - A member entitleil to attend and vote at the 
meeting is entitled to appoint, a plow and the proxy need 
not be a member oi the company. 

(inrun 


HARLALKA BROTHERS PRIVATE LTD. 


S1KHTTI HHUSHAN NATH. hh.Il., intends to in 
enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court 

< 1128 — 1 ) 


MXNINDKAKUMAR HHAUM1K bUk. intends to be 
cm oiled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta* High Court. 

( 120 - 1 ) 


MKftHMINAHAYAN MFKTTFJUEK LL H , intends to 
he enrolled as an Advocate o( the Calcutta High Court 

(130 — 4 ) 


MUITYUNJOY DAS (J I TPTA, LL II . intends to be 
fiiiollrd as an Advocate ol I be Calcutta High Court. 

(131-4) 


WTH LAKSTTMT NAHAYAN DATTA, M.Oom., LL IL. 
'Titonds to he enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court. 

<133 1) 


(iOFRI RANK1UKK, LL.H . inlcnds 1o be emolled 
,ls ui \dvocate of Calcutta High Court. 


Notice 

NOTICE is heieby given that n meeting ol the creditors 
ot (lie iilim enamed company will be held on Werlnesdny 
the Mill day oi March 1002 at 1 p.m at the Rcgisteied 
OHice of the company at No 7, Rami Kumar Raklnt Lane, 
Calcutta, to consider the tollowing — 

<l) To receive and adopt il approved the statement of 
affairs of the company as at 8|h February 10T>2 
and a list oi creditors on that date n*iid the esti- 
mated amount oi their claims. 

12) That the company is imahle to par its debts and 
that there are no sufficient assets with the com 
panv ami! the company is unable to carry on its 
business and as such the compans be sent into 
eieditors voluntary winding up. 

<3) To appoint Liquidator and fi\ up Ins remuneration 
for winding up the compare as a Creditors \oluu- 
tary winding up. 

(i) To consider any other mallei that mr>v he 
necessary. 

Dated Calcutta, the 8t.h February’ 1Bfi2. 

Hv order ot the Hoard, 

FULfTl AND HARLALKA, 
Managing Director 

Note. — A creditoi entitled In alleml and vole at the 
meeting is entitled to appoint a pn/vv and the prow need 
not be a creditor n| i he company 


( 134 - 4 ) 


<157- 1) 


70 


| Part u 


> 1111 .; CAUTTTA ( 1 AZETTE. FEBRUARY 15 , 1962 


THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA 


Summary of the Minutes of the Proceedings of the 
Commissioners’ 14th Meeting, held on the 20th 
November 1961* 

at t i„. ml) ’U.v.tm.' of tlx- Commissi oners hold on the 
2011, November I '.Mil. tlx- lollowion ''IMoim-ss was 
tl ;i nsacted 1 — 

I Administration Report for 1960-61: («> Financial 

Results. Tlir total 1II.OII.O lor t ho .'oar nntler roviou 
it i lo ill ii I •'! to I!'. I I,l2.2‘l,<;xl an. I tin' lolol expemhtme to 
IT, | ", 02 (iit.'- , :>7 >| I.,- yea, 1.1 1 i i - on. loci with a snr|ilns of 

its. .'>i,,2K,s.‘>7. 

(Ill Traffic. — The t./nnnso III laufi wliioh I'asso.l tlirou till 
tho Pori < 1 u r 1 1 1 fj> I ho year was r '.1tll ,7II'.| 'onnor. uri.lor 

ami UKIs.str, tom, os u.i.loi oxpnrtN as nMin.jt th 

noil. import ami expo.t homos ol o.d.U.^l an.t 

4 7 r» 0, 1 1 I tonnes respectively during the previous M* Ar - 

<e) Shipping.-- (0 Tho number ol vessels which entered 
th(‘ poll dump' tlio year was 1.7NG with rwi aggregate 
a, oss tonnam* ol P2,1SL9SJ against 1 .R20 vessels with an 

“ kio.s 10 . 111 , 4:0 of T2.tKt0.1S1 ilnring tho provinm 

yoar.‘ Tho deepest limit ship t.o onto.- tho port dnrinp tho 
soar drew 27’ loi’il an.l alt. 

(„> On tho lSI.li Novomhor 1000, tho Dr. “Lake Fithian” 
tmlonoin" In Jlossis. Anistor.hvniM ho IDIIast Maatsolnippi, 
,l„. , lroi|.>, in r omit motors, eapsized ami sank on ” , 
Point, at a hi in I S 20 pm Tho nninhor ol Inos ‘ 

ilisnslor was 17. ol wlnoli 12 weie Dnlolmion. 1 lmli.ms 
and one ( Vyloneso. 

On) In tin- I’orl. Appnwiehes, tho Italari liar ^"Irnlh'.l 
1 , 1,0 limit or shins lor 211 <h».vs as mtainsl. 21 .. (l.i> • * ittif. 
tlio piovnms \ oar Olhor bars wliioh o.nit rolled tho drat. 
<„ ships MO, o tho Nman for A dav,. Up|,or Nnrpnr. Nnn.ur 
nml Timor Nnrpnr tor 20 days, llopos omssing for .2 days 
and tho Kaslorn Cut fin I dais Tho oontrollm? hai^ 
ivorn (tins h.'lnw Dnmmml Harbour lor dl days .ss 
atutiu'-i. Old da\ s during Hie pievions \ear. 

(,l) Hoogfily Pilotage: Tlio inoomo Irnm Pilotapo donne 
the ainountod t.o Rs. 2«M»7.C,DK ami tho oxpomlilmo 

t .o Its 2(1.7:!. 112 ^howinj: a surplus ol Its. ‘_..)1..,S(, in tho 
“pro liirina" not omit luamtiwnod separately "iidor tins 
Head 

t«0 Port Development Scheme under the Second Five- 
Year Plan: Although the Jlsl March 1901 marked the end 
ol the Second Ki \ e Year Plan period, a number of proiertx 
were m an iik oniplete sta^e ol execution on the Tlst March 
l!l(‘d The position miuht he smnniai e ed a^ lollows 


(i) l*i ojt 1 1 completed It). 

(ii) |*i ojeet ’ in a* final static ol completion 1 
(m) | * ro | ec t s in an mlvanee.i «tmre ol progress 11. 

(i\ ) l*i meet s in a prehininar \ staff of execution- 12. 
Total mimhei ol ju'ojeets <o\ ered h\ the Plan -Mi. 

Ttu‘ delav on the execution ol the projects was primarily 
ttue to f^jiort ape ol loreign exchange in the country and 
the < oii'-'.etpien I ml difli<ult> in commencing w ork on new 
promt t - until <ej»l ember I9d* when a* loan from the World 
Hank was final i ed lor meeting the foreign exchange expen- 
dituie otliei ( out i lhutirig taetors wpiv non-ayailnhilitv ol 
shipbuilding steel in the emintr\ invitation of tenders lor 
sonu' project on -s global hasi . w lii*-h imolved negotiations 
:md deeus.imv and the lime taken for drawing up c P^di- 
cation tor some malt Tn spite oi these difficulties all the 
projects rmered hv the Second Five-Year Plan with the 
exception ol a few, ;rc expected to he completed by the 
dOth Sejilemhei 1902, the last date for the withdrawal ol 
the loan horn the World Hank 


The expenditure incurred during the vemr on tho Second 
Five-Year Plan iirnjeets amounted to IN. (>.20,05,9:19. Of 
this amount , w it lull awals from the World Pank accounted 
loi Hs. 2.9L:t7,or,K 


2. Schedule of Rant charges for the Commissioners 
rentable Warehouses and Buildings: The Commission,.^ 

upjirovod the Schedule of rent, charges for the ( oiium- 
si oners* rentable warehouses and buildings |>rej>ared h\ t} )( , 
Standing Land and Buildings Allotment Committee, 
schedule being implemented in the manner suggested | lX 
the Chairman except that it should be adopted m nil ras^ 
with effect irom the 1st April 1902. 

d Repayment of the por cent, ten-year (1951-61 > 
second loan Of Rs. 150 lakhs: It u;»«s derided to rcroinim 1 ,, 
In (ioyerrirnent that the sanction rerj lined umlei srvlmti »_> 
of (ho Cnlcutla I'm I \cf he aceoidml lo the lloatat ion oi , 
loan oi \{y. |.*i0 lakh*. eaiiNing inteiesl at 1 \ per e'Mil 

1. Accident to the M.V. “Nicobar”: The Imeslm.ii,,, 

Ollicei s n > commenda*l toil was apjtro’v ed, 

d Accident to the 8.8. “jalavikram” : Tin 1m. 

tmg Officer’s recommendations wen* ajrproved. 

0. Collision between the Tug “Lotus” and the s.s. 
“jalamatsya”: The Investigating, Otficer’s reeormiKMifl.i 
turns were approved. 

7. Revision of Schedule of Rent for lands: The Com- 
missioners decided to set up a sma*ll committee to scuiti- 
nixe t lie Schedule of Pont tor their rentable lands. 

s Port Development Scheme— Third Five-Year Plan: 

Tlio progress rejmrt tor the* (juarter ending 1 ho ddth .liim 
P.HJl was recorded. 

9. Block proposals: The Commissioners also sand inno.i 
routine est ahlishmeiit prot»osals and routine prnpn nl 
iclahng to execution oi works, grant oi leases, pmdi.m 
n| matmial, remissinn of charges, etc. 

The drd FolmiaiA 1902. 

P. (’ iMITTFP, Secret ai , 

(17. 


LOST 

THE (lovernment Promissory Note No (’A 129007 ^nt ijm 
three per cent. Conversion Loan oi 1910 tor IT 
ongmalh standmir m tho name of Columhi Chsimlia Di 
and la*st mulorsed to Srn. Lilahati («uha by the -loin! 
Secretary to the (tovermnent oi VYe d Bengal, Puhlw »*rl 
Department , Calcutta, the joopnetor M whom it was n-r 
ih'livered to the alorosaid lady nr, a endorsed to anv other 
person, tuning been lost, not me i', li(‘reh\ given that p.o- 
m en t. oi the ahoy* note and t lie* interest thereupon he. 
been stopped at the Public Debt Office, Reserve B.ml >> 
India. Calcutta, and that ap|»liealmn is about to he mad' 
h»r thr‘ issue oi duplicate in iavour oi iiie Joint Se' ieia? 1 , 
t(,* the (Jovornment. oi West Brunud, Public Works D''p:ir; 
merit. Tin* jmhlic are cautioned against purehnxnm <> r 
otherwise dealing With the ahovemeiit.ioiied s«‘eiirit\ 

I) N. BAN RPJKL 
Joint Seel elan to ill*’ 

(5o\ eminent ot AYesI Beni’iil 
Buhlu Works Deparlmenl 

Dsitcd, the dtli Cehrua r\ 19(i2. 


IN THE MATTER OF HILL TOP TEA CO. LTD. 

(IN VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION) 

NOTICE is hereby given that Meeting oi the Conintv- 
tones and ( ’reilitors oi tlie Ilill lop L*a (o lJ‘1 , * 1l 
\ oluntai v t,i(iu ida turn) w ill he held sM> 122/1N Aloii(. 1 ’'u- 
rmkui Load (2nd floor), Calcutta, on the 12t,h Maidi 
at 11 a. m . and ll-lo a.m . re ,pectivel\ , to j>ass and 
Hie Liquidator’s statement oi account tor 1 he D‘‘ r M> ‘ 
commencing trom 21st April 19(d to 20th October *’ 

K. 1!TTATT\(’I1AIMI T 
Lujuidator , 

Hill Toji Tea* ('o. Ltd 
( voluntary lupiida lien) 

I Tiled, the Si h February 1902 p 



> a bT II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 15, 1962 


77 


FORM No. 151 


(See Rule 315) 

COMPANIES ACT, 1956 
Members' Voluntary Wlndlng-up 

notice of appointment of liquidator 

PURSUANT TO SECTION 516 

Xauie of company: Standard Builders Corporation 

nvato Ltd. 

Nature ot business: Builders and Contractors. 

\ildress ot Registered Office: 7 Jessore Road, 

)u,„ Duni, Calcutta-28. 

Name and address of Liquidator: Shri H. K. Mukhorjoe 
f 7 Jessore Road, Dum Duin, Calcutta-28. 

Py wlurni appointed: By Shareholders at a General 
loot mg of the Company hold on 11th Novomber 1961. 


H. K. MUKHERJEE, 
Liquidator. 

Mtnd, Calcutta, the 29th January 1962. 


(145—1) 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, 1956 
AND 

N THE MATTER OF R. N. SHAW AND CO., PRIVATE 
LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION) 

NOTICE, is hereby given that at a General Meeting of 
ii, :d)o\ eiiamed Company hehl on Thursday, the 8th Feb- 
u.irv 1962, at 61 Eden Ho.pilal Road, Calrutta-12, the 
Icgi-ieiofl Offiee of 1 he Company, the following special 
L'solut ion was passed:— 

“Resolved that the Company he wound up voluntarily 
and that Shri Indu Bhusan Shaw bo and is hereby 
appointed Liquidatoi for the purpose of such winding 
up on a consolidated remuneration of Rs. 200 only.” 

TARA BHUSAN SHAW, 
Chairman of the Meeting. 

tafod, tho 8th February 1962. 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, 1656 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF R. N. SHAW AND CO. PRIVATE 
LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION) 

MEMBERS VOLUNTARY WINDING UP 

(Notice of appointment of liquidator pursuant to 
section 516) 

I. Indu Bhusan Shaw of 61, Eden Hospital Rond. 
Calcutta, hereby give m/tice that T have been appointed 
liquidator ot R. N. Sha*\v A Co. Private Ltd. (in members 1 
voluntary liquidation) hv a Special Resolution of the 
Company passed ou tho 8th February 1962. 

INDU BUTTS AN SHAW, 
Liquidator. 


Dated, the 10th February 1962. 


(152- 1) 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, 1956 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF TOLLYGUNGE IRON AND 
ENGINEERING WORKS LTD. (IN CREDITORS’ 
VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION). 

NOTICE is hereby given in pursuance of section 509 
that a general meeting of the members and creditors of 
tho abovennmed Company will la' held in Room No 115 
(2nd floor) of 11/2 Old Chimihaznr Street, Calcutta', on the 
20th day of March 1962 at 11 a.m. in the forenoon for the 
purpose of having an account laid before them '■liowiim tlie 
manner in which tin* winding up has been conducted and 
the, proper tv of the Compnin disposed of a*iid ol hearing 
anv explanation that may be given by the Liquidator and 
alse of determination b\ a special resolution of I lie Com- 
pany b> t tie members and creditors, the manner in which 
the hooks, account*- and documents of the Company and 
of the Liquidator shall ho disposed of, 

A form of general prow is enclosed herewith Proxy 
to he used must he lodged with tho Liquidator not later 
than 11 a.m. on the 18th day of March 1962. 

KSHETRA MOTION MUKHERJEE, 

Liquidator, 

Tollygunge Iron and Engineering Works 
(In Liquidation). 

Dated the 8th day of February 1962. 


(151-1) 


(158 — 1) 




*> 


PHALGUNA3] THURSDAY. FEBRUARY 22. 1962 


SAKA 1881) 


CONTENTS: 


blute Statistical Bureau — Tost of living indexes, 
(Calcutta, and wholesale pnee index 
for the week ending the 17 th February 
1962 

Calcutta Improvement Tru x Notice* 


Page. 


73—74 

75 


SUPPLEMENT — Official Papers 


Issue No. 296 


STATE STATISTICAL BUREAU, WEST BENGAL 

TABLE 1 

Cost ot living indexes, Calcutta and wholesale price index (week ending 17th February 1962) 

Coet of living index — Base : November, 1960. 


AU-lndia wholesale 
price Index*. 


Period. 

f 

Expend nun' level 

l§n Kh.) 



Base, 

1962-63. 

Converted 
wji h 

November 
19* uu 

1 - 100 


101—2(8) 


201 - 

-A. 

860 


r XU 

Food. 

All 

Food. 

Ail 

Food. 


bun. 


item*. 


lVCCQb 


items. 




U) 

(2) 

(3> 

(4) 

W 

(6) 

H) 

(«) 

10. 

*><) 1 January 

yj-9 


9)* ‘ 

88* 1 

94*7 

88*6 

-* 


April 

95-2 

0d*4 

1K» • *> 

90*1 

96*3 

00*1 



.luly 

94*0 

89*4 

91*4 

89*5 

94*7 

89*6 

•• 


October 

96* J 

91*6 

05*3 

91*4 

96*6 

91*3 

•“ 

. i 

l'Jb& Janaary 

•0*7 

84*7 

91*1 

64*4 

91*7 

84*5 

. . 

. . 

Apnl 

80-9 

83*0 

90*5 

63*7 

91*2 

84*0 

88- 0 

82* 8 

July 

91*1 

86*6 

9i*6 

86-8 

92*0 

86*8 

92*9 

86*0 

October 

93*7 

80*7 

93*0 

89*4 

04*0 

88*0 

90*6 

8.1*9 

January 

90-9 

84*8 

9!*0 

84 v> 

01*2 

83*7 

06*3 

88*2 

April 

96*2 

91*6 

94*8 

00*4 

04*6 

80*6 

100*0 

92*6 

July 

99*6 

98*0 

98*7 

96*3 

97*8 

94*7 

103*o 

06*rt 

October 

102*4 

101*3 

100*7 

98*9 

99*4 

96*9 

106*7 

98*8 


•Revised series (Base : 1962-63) and the corresponding oonverted series* 



SUPPLEMENT 10 'lliE UAEPUTTA UAZETTE, FEBRUARY 22, 1962 




Con, of living index — Bate 

: November, 

1960. 


AU-lndia whoi*^ 
price index*. 

# 

r“ 

Period. 


Expenditure level (in Re.) 


— , — ■ — — > 

Bns», 

1962-53. 

ConvHr^ 

with 

Nnv»niih 

* 

1-100 


101—200 


201—860 



All 

Food. 

r 

All 

Food. 

All 

Food. 


i 


items. 


items. 


item*. 




U) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(6) 

(«) 

U) 

(8) 

l*> 

1967 January 

April 

Jnlv 

08 *4 

100-6 

106-0 

94*6 

98 *0 

106 *8 

97-0 

98 -9 

104-1 

91 *9 

96 -6 

103-0 

96 2 

97 -0 

102-7 

90-3 

93-6 

100-7 

107 -8 

100 -5 

111-9 

91 

91 

10; 

October 

107-6 

107-0 

105 7 

104 -0 

104-0 

102-S 

108 -9 

10 

1958 Januarv 

106 0 

106 '0 

101 8 

103-1 

103-1 

104 -4 

98-1 

100-2 

101 -8 

103 -2 

96 -4 

9# -9 

106 -o 

107 -4 

9 

91 

April 

July 

October 

100-4 

11* S 

101 -6 

114-8 

107 ■» 

111 -2 

104 -9 

113-3 

100-7 

109-8 

102 -0 

108-6 

114 -7 

116-2 

16 

10 

1969 January 

April 

108*0 

106 -8 

110-4 

97 -2 

100-9 

108 -3 

102 -9 

106-1 

109 -2 

96 -6 

99 -4 

10* -1 

102 -7 

104 -6 

108 -1 

94 -C 

98 -2 

104 -0 

112-3 

111 -0 

110-8 

K 

O' 

July • • 

Oetoboi 

114-6 

116-0 

113-0 

113-4 

111 -6 

111-0 

110 -3 

11 

1960 January 

1 10 -4 

HO >6 

108 •* 

108-0 

108-6 

108 -9 

106 -3 

106 -2 

107 -6 

107 -9 

103 -2 

103 -3 

118-8 

120 -6 

1J 

1] 

April 

TmW 

114 -4 

113-9 

112-8 

111 •« 

111 -6 

109 -0 

124-7 

11 

July 

October 

114 4 

113 -6 

113-2 

111-8 

112-2 

110-4 

120-3 

u 

1901 January 

February 

March 

April 

u. v 

109 -7 

110-6 

110-9 

112-2 

112-1 

106 -0 

106 1 

106-1 

108-2 

107-8 

108- 7 

109- 6 

109 -9 

111-4 

111-1 

103 -2 

104 -3 

104 -0 

107-2 

107-0 

J 08 -4 

109 -0 

109 -6 

111-0 

1110 

102 -3 

103-3 

103 9 

106-0 

106-6 

126 *0 

120*7 

127-6 

126-8 

126*3 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

may 

June 

113*7 

1101 

112-7 

109-1 

112-1 

108-4 

126-0 

1 

July 

Auguat 

Beptembw 

October 

• November 

December 

116-2 

117- 9 

118- 0 

119- 9 

120- 9 

117-0 

114*1 

116-8 

110-1 

119-7 

120 1 

114-6 

116-1 

116 6 

110 6 

1J8-2 

118 4 

116-3 

113-2 

116-7 

116*2 

118-2 

J 1 8 -4 

112-0 

114-2 

116-6 

116-4 

110*9 

110*9 

114-1 

112-2 

11 1 -6 

113-8 

lib* 7 

110*0 

111*1 

12 *7 

127-4 

124-0 

124 • 1 

124 3 

**122-9 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

J 

Week ending. 







123-4 


•«n. | «•> 

11 J-3 

110-2 

112-8 

108-2 

112-1 

107*1 


s5U * Ow ' • 

27-1-62 

113*8 

10!)- 2 

112-3 

107*3 

111-7 

100-3 

124-0 


3-2-62 

10-2-62 

17-2*62 

113*8 

114-0 

114-7 

109-1 

109- 7 

110- 3 

112*3 

112- 7 

113- 1 

107- 1 

108- 0 

108- 3 

111-7 

112*1 

112*4 

106-1 

107-1 

107-2 




'Revised series (Bose « 1962-83) sod the corresix>ndiug eooverted series. 

**Revieed- 



SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 22, 1962 


75 


CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR THE 
IMPROVEMENT OF CALCUTTA 

Mntice under section 43 of the Calcutta Improvement 
* Act 1911 (Bengal Act V of 1911) 

Calcutta, the 31st January 1962 

SCHEME No. LXXXVI (KALIGHAT ROAD) 

It is notified under section 43 of the Calcutta 
impiovoment Act, 1911, that a Street Scheme for the 
r uipnse of improving means of communication and 
facilities for traffic, by winding a portion of Kalighat 
i^oad, to be known as Scheme No. LXXXVI (Kalighat 
Road), has been framed by (he Board of Trustees for 
ihc Improvement of Calcutta in the above area within 
vsards Nos. 67 and 70 of the Corporation of Calcutta. 

The boundary of the area comprised in the Scheme, 
shown within red verge on plan is as follows: 

On the North: Starting from the north-western 
corner of premises No. 14/ 1A, Kedar Bose Lane, 
i mining eastwards along the northern boundaries of 
premises Nos. M/1A, Kedar Bose Lane and 21 B 
Balaram Bose Ghat Road to the north-eastern comer 
of the latter; from this point running eastwards in a 
straight line to the north-western corner of premises 
No. 2B, Kalighat Road; from this point running east- 
wards along ihe northern boundary of premises No. 
2B, Kalighat Road to its north-eastern corner; fiom 
this point running eastwards for a distance of about 
22 feel along the northern boundary of premises 
Nos. 14 1A and 144B, Ashutosh Mukherjee Road, to 
,i po.ni where the above boundary line bends south- 
wards: liom this point running eastwards in a 
.Oa'ghi line to the north-eastern corner of premises 
V* KdA and 144B, Ashutosh Mukherjee Road. 

On the East: From this point running south 
wm ’s i ! a straight line to the north-eastern corner of 
premises No. 4, Shyama Prosad Mukherjee Road. 

On the South: From this point running south- 
v.esi waids in a straight line to the south-eastern 
corner of premises No, 21, Kalighat Road, from this 
point running westwards in a straight line to the 
south-western corner of premises No. 20, Kalighat 
Road. 

On the West: From this point running north- 
wards h a straight line to the south-western corner 
ef premises No. 21 A, Balaram Bose Ghat Road; from 
thL point running along the western boundaries of 
premises No. 21A, Balaram Bose Ghat Road and 
14/1 A, Kedar Bose Lane to the starting point. 


The particulars of the Scheme, a plan showing the 
Scheme area and a statement of the lands proposed 
for acquisition and for levy of betterment fee may be 
inspected at the office of the Trust at 10 Netaji 
Subhas Road, Calcutta, between the hours 11 a.m. 
and 3 p.m. on week days and between hours 11 a.m. 
and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 


Copies will be available on payment of the follow- 
ing fees: — 

Rs. 

Particulars and other information of 
the scheme ... 0.25 


Statement of land proposed for 
acquisition or for levy of betterment 
fee ... 0.25 

Plan of the Scheme area ... LOO 


Objections to the Scheme will be received up to 
12th May 1962. 

Under section 6 A of the Land Acquisition Act, 
1894, as introduced by the schedule to the Calcutta 
Improvement Act, 1911, as amended by the West 
Bengal Act XXXII of 1955, the publication of this 
notice shall have the same effect as the publication 
of notification under section 4 of the Land Acquisi- 
tion Act 1894. 

K. SEN, 
Chairman. 


Calcutta, the 2nd February 1962 

Notice is hereby given under section 47(3) of the 
Calcutta Improvement Act, 1911, that the Board ot 
Trustees for the Improvement of Calcutta have 
applied to the State Government for sanction to 
Bustec Rehousing Scheme No. VII 1 at 27/1 A Aliporc 
Road and 19 and 19/1, Pitambar Ghatak Lane, 
Chetla, which was first published in the “Calcutta 
Gazette” and in local newspapers on the 20th July 
]%L 

K. SEN, 
Chairman. 


Dated the 2nd February 1962 

Notice is hereby given under section *17(3) of the 
Calcutta Improvement Act, 1911, that the Board ol 
Trustees for the Improvement of Calcutta have 
applied to the State Government for sanction to the 
Improvement Scheme No. LX XX (Raja Naha Krishna 
Street) which w'as first published in the “Calcutta 
Gazette” and in local newspapers on the 1 7th August 
1961. 

K. SEN, 

Chairman. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at the West Bengal Government Press, All pore. 







•HALGUNA 3 ] 


THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1962 


[ SAKA 1883 


PART II — Advertisements, Notices 


>racfldur« regarding finding Manuscripts for publication of AdvcrtisomcntSp Notices, etc., in the 
1 “Calcutta Gazette” (Part II). 


1 . Manuscripts should be properly edited and complete in Itself. 

2. Manuscripts should always be typewritten on one side of the 


paper. The name of signatory thou Id be typewritten 

»iow the signature, 

3. Manuscripts intended for advertisement in the next issue of “Calcutta Gazette 


1 Hastings Street, Calcutta, up to 3-30 p. m. 


shall be received by 
on Friday and at Head Office 


Publication 
at Alipore 


Sales 
up to 


)fHcs of New Secretariat Buildings, 

1 a. m. on Saturday. 

4 All costs shall be paid in advance and depoeited along with the manuscripts. 

5. Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING (PUBLICATION 


IRANCH), WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS, ALIPORE. 

The press shall not be held responsible for dolay in publication of any 


advertisement due to the non-ooservance of the 


Mtructions detailed above. 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 
Advertisement No. 7 

APPLICATIONS are invited Loi undermentioned posts 
.inn Indian citizens and persons <>l Indian oiigin migrated 
.iDiii Pakistan with intention ol permanently settling in 
|ji,|i:i . . objects ol Nepal, Sikkim or State ol Pondiehei ty, 
Mil" i jicuons dnmicile<l in (Jon, Daman and Dm. Age limits 
relaxable tor Government servants except where otherwise 
specified. I'ppet age limits lelaxable by 5 years lot Sche 
iliilid ( and S< liednled Tubes candidates No lelaxa- 

t mu i > a otheis, save m exceptional < mum stances, and will 
,ii no ia s t . Ik* relaxed bevond three \eais. Qualifications 
relaxable at Commission’s discretion in case of candidates 
otherwise well qualified. Particulars and application terms 
"kliimahlc lrom Secretary. Pnion Public Service Commis- 
nmi | > o t Hox No. ISO, New Delhi. Request tor lorms 
■ii'im spent \ name ol post and should be accompanied to 
f ll-addi cssed unsiamjxd envelope tor eaeli post at least 
1 i/» H'/ 1" indicating thereon name ot posts lor which 

: "nns ,oe t ct| it i red . ( losing date tor icceipt ot application 

v * it li 1 r on si 1 1 _\ receipt or crossed Indian Postal Order lor 
1L 7 An ill*. ( 1.87 nP. foi Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 

the I Pth March 1002 (2nd April 1002 tor applicants 
’• “in abiond). Separate application with separate tee 
"‘'timed tor each post, Candidates abroad may apply on 
I *‘ ,| ii paper it lorms are not available and deposit lee with 
‘ “ Indian Embassy. It, required candidates must appear 
I 1 " 1 personal interview. 

1 Ofhcer-in-charge, Training Courses, Indian Veterinary 
Research Institute, Izatnagar. Post temporary, but likelv 
| uiritinuo Post reserved lor Scheduled (Pastes /Tribes 
' hdate. if such suitable candidate available; otiierwise 

-is unreserved. Pays— Rs. 350-- 25— 51XV- 30- 5<Xv— 
hK 30 --8(H)- E.B. - -30 830—35 000. Higher initial pay 


to special l> qualified and expei leneed candidate Age: 35 
\eai s and below. Qualifications: — Essential — (i) Degree*/ 
Diploma in Veterinary Science ot a recognised I'mversrty/ 
In tit ill ion. til) About three years’ experience in teaching 
a \rtemiarv subject at a recognised institution. 

2 One Lecturer in Pharmacology, Maulana Azad 
Medical Collego, New Delhi, Delhi Administration. Post 
1 “in porn t> both likely to continue and be retained on 
jn*i ui.iiieiit basis. Pay: — H,s. 530- 30- -(>50 plus iioii- 
pia< Using allowance ol 25 per cent ol pay, subject, to a 
minimum ol I?.',. 150 per month. Private practice ot any 
kind will not be allowed. lliglict initial pav to speeiallv 
qimlitied and experienced candidate. Age: -45 years and 
below . Qualifications: Essential — (n A .Medical quahli 

canon included in the first or Second Schedule or Pint II 
ol Thud Schedule to the Indian Medical Coumil Act-, 1050. 

| I'm soils possessing qualilira t ioiu included m I'ait 11 ol 
Third Schedule should also fulfil the conditions relating to 
legist ration specified m section 13(5) ol the Act.) 
til) Post -gi actuate* qualification, e.g., \l D., Pli.l), I). Sc. 
in Pharmacology, or M.K.C.P. or M.D, in Medicine vviih 
Pluu macology a.s a special subject till) Abmil three vears’ 
ten lung experience .is Uegist rai /Tutoi Demons! i ator m 
Ph imiiii olog\ m a Medical College. 

3. Four Subdivislona! Officers (Civil) in Forest Depart- 
ment, Himachal Pradesh Administration. Posts temporal 
but likelv to continue. One post reset veil for Scheduled 
Castes/ Tribes candidate it such suitable candidate is avail- 
able otherwise all jsists t reap'd unreserved. Noto: 
Residents of lluuaehal Pradesh may hr* given prelercnce. 
Pay : |{s. 250 — 25- 550 25 750. Iligbei initial pav to 

speeiallv qualified and experienced candidates Age: 
Tiet w cen 20 and 25 years. Qualifications: - Essential 

U) Degree in Civil Engineering ot recognised I niversitv, 
oi equivalent qualification (u) About two years’ praeLical 
t s pel ieriee. 


80 


THE CALCUTTA (iAZKTTE, FEBRUARY 22, 1%2 


4. Officer-in-charge (Training), Animal Husbandry 
Department, Himachal Pradesh Administration. Post tem- 
porary but likely to eoiitmuc. Other things being equal, 
scheduled castes/ tribes eandidale pivlened. Pays— 
Rs. 250-25 -5-50/25 750. Higher initial ]>ay to - penally 
qualified and experienced candidate. Age: 25 years and 
below. Qualifications: Essential — ( i > Ik^e-e/ Diploma in 
Veterinary Si mice of a lecognisod um\ ei sity /instil utmn. 
(u) About t In ee .veals expi'iienee ill teaching Sheep 
Husbandly, Or About two years’ cxpcticnec ot winking in 
a lei-o^niseil Sheep Breeding Farm. 

5 Eleven Medical Referees, Employees’ State Insurance 
Corporation, Ministry of Labour and Employment. Posts 

temporary, Iml likely to become permanent in due course. 
Two po ts re ci\ed lor Scheduled (lasted ■ amJidutcx and one 
few Scheduled Tidies candidate's il smii i.imlidates are 
available nlhciui.ic ail posts to be treated a, uni eserved. 
( -undidali"' who fjave alieady applied in icxpeuixo to Oim- 
mission’s ailv ei t isement dated l l l Apnl ! 1 K > f need flOf 
apply again Pay: Its. 250 25 500 l\ li 20 HOO plus 
noii-j>i act ism.:, allowance of 2-5 per ecu I oi pay, sul»|ec| (<> 
a maximum oi Its. 150 pel montii (Si ah- likedv to be 
revised as Its :r»(l ~ 250- 380 - -Ml 30 -500 K. B.- 30— 
770 — 10 -H5U). Pi i\ ate practice ol an\ kind will not be* 
allowed. Higher initial pay to specially qualified ami 
oxpone m eel candidates. Ag6: 25 years and below. 
Qualifications:- Essential O) A Medical epialifie at mil 
im luded in the Knsl or See oml Schedule or (hut il ol 
Thud Schedule to tin Indian Medical (untied Act, 1050. 
(u) About live vents’ pi actual experience as Physician in 
any institution ol icpnte oi in a large imbed lial eonecin. 

0. Compiler (Gazetteer), Ministry of Scientific Research 
and Cultural Affairs. Post tempura: v, Imt likel\ to con- 
tinue. / Pay:— Bs 700- -10-1, 100 .511/ 2- -1.2.50. Higher 
initial pay to speiiallv qualified and e\periene(‘d candidate. 
Ago: 15 years ami below . Qualifications: Essential— 

<i) At least- 2nd Class Masters oi i q.-- . ;.l*-,it }i«,ne.m - 
device in Ancient Indma History and Cull me ( 1 1 > Vboiit 
fhiee yeais’ experience ol icscareh ol whit h ev uienee 
should lie furnished 

7. Assistant Research Officer (Sheep Breeding), Indian 
Council of Agricultural Research, Ministry of Food and 
Agriculture (Department of Agriculture). Post temporary, 
but likely to hot ome pel maneiit. Pay: 1C . 2.50- 25 500 

20 500— K l> - 20- S00 K. B. S2n - 25 000. limber 

initial pay te* specially qualified and e\pei imiecd candid. 0c 
Age. -15 years and below. Qualifications: Essential 

(l) Degree in Agneultiiic or Degiee/ Diploma in Vetoimary 
Science oi a recognised university/ uist it utioii (ii) Posl 
graduate training m Animal Husbandly, diii About three 
years’ experience ol research and /or pincLical experience ol 
sheep bieedmg. 

H. Research Officer in the Central Marine Fisheries 
Research Institute, Mandapam Camp, Ministry of Food 
and Agriculture, Department of Agriculture. Post tem- 
porary but- likely to continue iudcfimtclv Posl reset ve. I 
for Scheduled Tsibes candidate, it sueli suitable candidate 
available; otherwise* heated a,- unrcscivcd. Pay: Us. 100 
— 10 —8(H)— 50- 050 Higher initial pay to specially 

qualified and e\ pel icm ed candidate. Age: 25 \eais and 
below. Qualifications: - Essential -o) Musiei's m eepma- 
lent- I fonoui s device m Zoology o| a recognised um\ci tty . 
(n) \hout thiee years' reseaieli expel lenec in prawns 
rescan h 

!) One Administrative Officer, Central Inland Fisheries 
Research Institute, Barrackpore, Ministry of Food and 
Agriculture. Pa -4 pet maneiit, hut appomlmenl a ill he 
made mi tmnpoiviy basts mi lieu vacancy. Post reset ved 
foi Scheduled (5.sti - /Ti ibes candidate. Applications invited 
from Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidates only. Pay: 

Bs. 250 25 — 575, Highei initial pay to specially quuliiicd 
ami experienced candidate. Age:- 20 years and below. 
Qualifications:- Essential— (it Degree ol il recognised 
Dnivoisilv (ii) About, livtv ye;us’ o\| » rienee ol adnnnis- 
tralive. nee omit'- and (‘stable liment week m a ( 5»v criiicent 
depart ment , piel’ei aldy in a Seieiitilit Institution, 
(in) Knowledge ol (im eminent rub's and i egulntmiis 

10 . Two Administrative Officers for Research and Devc 
I op ment Organisation, Ministry of Defence. Posts tem- 
porary but hkel\ to continue and he retained on pcnnunent 
basis. Hilt' po t reserved lot Scheduled ( -a 4es eandidate 


fPART |] 


and the other lor Scheduled Tribes candidate. Appf| c * t , 
invited limn Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidates * i 
Pay:- Bs. 250- 25 500— 20 500 K B. — 30 — 800, u^' 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candid* * 
Age: — 25 years and below. Qualifications: — Essential 8 
(i) Degree ot a recognised l niversity. (ii) About fi 
years’ experience oi administrative, accounts and eq.dji 

ment work m a C»o\ ei nment or s<mii4»overnment orgaii 

tion or in a comineieial concern of repute, of which U / Sa ’ 
three years’ should be in a supervisory eap U( Kut 
(lit) Knowledge ot (bn eminent rules and regulations V 


ii. ui Lwiurur in unemisiry, ior the 0 u 

College, Imphal, Manipur Administration. Posts ’ t 
poi ary but likely in become peimunent. Othei things 
equal Scheduled C’astes/ Tubes candidates ijihJitJ 1 ? 
Pay: B. 225 15 -200 K.B. 20 500. Higher nm.ui * 

i«. speeiallv qualified and (‘xpcnciieed candidates. Age^' 

to veais and below. Qualifications: - Essential -o V 

icast -.eeond la-s M Sc. or equivalent Honoui* d(v f ,, 1 
in Chemist ly ot recognised l-niversity. (ii) About 
yoai\ Icacbing exjM'iicmc m degree classes. 


12. Deputy Dairy Development Adviser, ministry 
Food and Agriculture (Department of Agriculture). j» ( ^ 
permanent, but appointment, to be made in lien vnrauu 
on tempo] aiy basis. Pay:- Bs. 1 ,300- -<)0 — 1,(>(X). H i^h« f 
initial pav to »fK*eially (piaJitied and expei lenced eanduCu, 
Age: 50 years and below lor all including (iovermucu- 
sei \ .1 ui'-’. Qualifications: Essential- (i) Degree oi Ik 
buna in daiiving ot a iccogni.ed university/ institut mu, ,!, 
Degree m Animal Husbandly or Agriculture of renigni S|( j 
mu \ ei si t y (ii) Post graduate ti.iining in Animal 11^ 

handrv or Dairying, (ni) About seven years’ praet i« .;| 
expmieme in a responsible capacity in a | 

( li garusat ion 

12 Reporter in the Tariff Commission. Post pm-mau.-n, 
Post rescued fiistlv lor Scheduled Tribes candidate, .u,- 
‘-(‘cotidly ini Schedules! Castes candidate, ii such nintab 1 ■ 
candidates available othei wise treated as unreseiM.l 
Candidates called lot interview may k‘ required to sit tu> 
slimt band test at a speed ot 180 words nor minute intel to 
tin iisci i Im‘ then not t‘s oil iypew liter witnin spe'eified tun. 
(hdails ol \v h i e ■ h will follow in due course\ Pay: — Bs 27n 
:M Ml 25 - 575. Jligliei initial pay to specially q ualifu^ 
and experienced candidate Age; 35 years and be*lm\ he 
at! iik biding (Imernmeiit servants. Qualifications 
Essential (i) Matriculation oi <*(jui\ ulent (ii) J'rnfu iem- 
in slio. i hand ami 1 y pew i itmg with ability to take- <l.,wu 
pi nceeeJings in Knglisli at a speed ot 180 noils 
minute. 

11. One Planning Assistant, Central Regional and 
Urban Planning Organisation, Ministry of Health 

Post temporal \ and iikelv to continue Pay:— ]{^ 2J" 

1 i-- !7.» K.H.— 20 575. Lliglier initial pay to spe-ci.-il- 

qualified and expeuienceMl candidate Age: — 30 vears ano 
below. Qualifications:— Essential— ( o Mastei’s or equ 
'alent llonoui - Di git e ot a recognised Ctnveisitv a 
Sotial Science sufqcet, e.g , Sociology, Social Woik, Nj* i<*' 
\nt hi opology . (ii) About two yeais’ expeiieiuc iu • 
Planning (Mliee. 

15. Research Officer at the Central Inland Fisheries! 
Research institute, Barrackpore, Ministry of Food and I 
Agriculture (Department of Agriculture). Post pei lmumii 1 
but appoint mem to lie 1 made oil temporary basis in h' n < 
vac.mcN Po»l icsei\cd loi Sebe‘dulc‘d Caste's /Tidies < e n* 1 
< I - 1 1 « H mk Ii '-mtablc candidate .nailable; otheiwnc Him • 1 
as mu esci \ cd Pay: -|> s . 1()() — 10—800—50—050 
initial pay to p< « iall\ qualiJiesl and experienced eanfb' , i J ' 
Age: r» yc.,rs ami below, am! 15 years ten (loveMime’H 

tenant- Qualifications: - Essential— (i) Mastei’s d.-n* 
in Zoolocy of a i (‘cognised university, (ii) About d' ri 
years’ icseanli expenenee in Fisheries Biology'. 

Bk Two Investigating Officers in the Department 
Company Law Administration, Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry. Piets temporary, but likely to become prim** 
nent. Otk‘ post it»si‘rved ior Scheduled Castes candidate, ii 
such suitable candidate available; otherwise both 
treated as unreserved. Pay: — Bs. 325 — 15— 475— K b ^ 

— 575. Age:— 30 years and below for all including govern* 
ment servants. Qualifications: — Essential- -2nd 
M.A./M.Se. degree in Kconomics or Mathematics or StaO-* 
tics ol a recognised university. 


,Pa'T II | 


TIIF. CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 22, 1962 


8 ! 



i~ two Sub-Deputy Collectors, Revenue Department, 
Manipur Administration. Posts lempuiary and likely to 
* uniu , ()in* post res, ned lor St heduled Castcs/Trilm*. 
,,ul *j up-- Jl no such suitii bit* candidate available, both the 
* aI f 1 1 (’at ml as unresen ed. Pay: — Us. 17A |f>-2(>v— 

^ . 1-V- :i40- - K. B. 20 — o(X). Higher initial pay to 
w.callv qualified and cxpei icnccd candidates Ag6: — JO 

^irs and below. Qualifications: - Essential (n Degree 
ieeogniHC‘d Univeisit \ . uO Knowledge o| Matiipun 
i* n*'«i ' uni Tunning m oi evpeiience ol Revenue and 
and Sett lenient work. 

IS Two posts of Assistant Director of Education 
insp*c tor of Schools, Delhi Administration. Post-, inn 
rarv ami likely to continue and be made pel m client 
Post' reserved lor Sciieduled ( 'astc.s / Tribes candidates. 

ADOlications invited from Scheduled Castes Tribes candi- 
dates only. Pay: Us 17-, JV jihi- :iu :m K B --:tn 
W| „, ft li. Sdu dd POO. 1 1 ip ltei initial pav to spenalU 
i u i li tied and experienced candidates. Age: — Below l. r > 

mils Qualifications: - Essential ^i) Seeoml ( la s 
Muster's “i equivalent llonotiis Degree o! a iccugnisccl 
j nneiMtN . (n) I )egree Diploma in 'reaching 1 Kd neat ion ol 

a lerogniscHl Uim i f sity/ Institution, (in) About live jours’ 
<‘\|>oiienie (d teat lung and /nr educational adnnnist r;n ’on 
including ahoni three joins’ expel leiiee in lospnnsible 
.idminiO rat iv e eupaeiiy m; Knowledge oi 1 1 mill. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 

General instructions to candidates applying in response ts 
advertisements issuod by the Commission for recruit- 
ment to posts of “Selection". 

U » instructions regarding submission of application. 

\pphcations are to ho made on tin* presriihed ic/rm which 
will he available horn the office ol tin* Public Service Pom- 
illusion, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground tioor). 

\ iipoi » , ( ah iitta-27, poisonally oi on sending a large «olf- 
jnUiii* f sefl envclnrpo with stumps sufficient to cover the 
postage affixed to it (’andidatos who are unable to obtain 

copies oi the prescribed lorm maj apply on any similar 
typed 4 not. handwritten) form allowing exactly the word 
mjr and spacing ol the sample form published in the 
‘■Calcutta Gazette” of the 1st September 19/57), provider! 
t lie blank) aie filled ui> m the candidates’ own handwriting 

(‘J ) Particulars and certificates required. -Candidate** 

M’n'ihi niniish ov idenee oi their age, qualiiications and 
I'U'Moii". oxpeiienco fogethet a v » 1 1 » certificate'. written not 
'iiorc than one jeur prior to the date ol their applications, 
horn lespousibie pci snip, testifying t<» 1 heir private 

character 

Tim i ornmissmn accepts only the age ol a candidate as 
iccokIimI in the Matriculation or the Secondary School 
Kina I / 1 .os.ving (Vm ili* a t * . in 11. • ease ol i iemnle rarnli- 
f late v uo'C age i- not leeorded in the Matriculation or 
School Kma! < 'ei t ilieate, any oi the following evidence of 
uge is ar-epted by the Commission: — 

1. \ rei til i cute Iron 1 1 he Headmistress of the school 

which .she last attended, showing her exact ago r* 
icnudcd in the school register. 

2. \n idhdavit regarding her ago sworn by her Dither 

or mother nr some ot her person in a posit im to 
know bv having been present or heard ol her birth 
at the time ol occurrence. 

J \ certificate regarding her age, from a Member of 
the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who must, 
have known the candidate and her tamih, indicat 
i rig clearly the evidence on the basis of which be/ 
she satisfied himself /herself on the jioint. 

(d) Fee.- Candidate* must undone with their apnlioa 
tions a fee of Rs. ,*i in the form of a receipted dial an 
from a Gmernment Treasnrv or the Reserve Bank of india 
under the head “XXXVI- Miscellaneous— Receipts of the 


Public Service Commission, West Bengal”. Money order*, 
cheques, etc., in lieu of treasury diallans me not accepted 
Postal order, however, may be accepted trom candidates 
t'liov should be crossed and made payable to “The Score 
tar\, Public SeiMeo Commission, West Beiigal”. No appli- 
cation a ill be considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application tee. 

Candidates abroad may deposit, their application fees 
with the High ( •oimnissioner of India or tin* KmbaHsy, as 
i he ease may he, and obtain receipts tor the same, which 
will lia\e to he attached !,, their agplu at ions to he sub- 
mitted to the Commission. 

( andidatos in Government lerviro should make ‘•lire 
heic/rc depositing fee that their applications will ho torwurd- 
ed by their superior officers. In no case will the fee paid 
with the application be refunded. 

The Commission may remit lee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced person from Pakistan. 

An indigent displaced person shall, in the first instance, 
pay the application fee prescribed lor a gazetted poet 
olvertised by the Commission but it Iic/hIio is selected for 
and appears at the interview, the tee paid by him/her will 
be. i clouded alterwards. 

Note.--“(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must, lui rush with Ins application satislactory evidence 
that he is bona tide displaced person trom Pakistan, e.g , 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member oi Parliament or State Legislature, in 
oMgmal. 

(ii) A member ol the Scheduled Caste or Sciieduled 
J ribe claiininj' age concession must furnisli with his appli- 
iatif /11 a certilicate hi original irom a gazetted officer or a, 
M i*m her ol Parliament or State Legislature, belonging to 
the Scheduled Caste* or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
paitictilar caste or tribe to which lie claims to belong. 

(m) A displaced person seeking remission ot the npplica- 
:mn lee must lurmah besides the evidence recpurecl under 
Dole u> above, u ceitilieate (in original) Irom a District 
(Miiier or a gazetted officer or » Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that be is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.” 

(4) Address. — ("andidatos should give thoir present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 

(3) Canvassing. — Any attempt on the part, ol candidates 
to enlist, support oi their applicathms through persons of 
influence or officials oi Government will disqualify them 
ini appointment Spontaneous recommendation irom 
jh*isoii.h interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will be disregarded. 

((>; Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or tenipoiarj employment, under utiy Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g , Damodar Valley Corporation), m 
India will be re|ei ted unless they arc* submitted through 
the appointing authority ot then posts or service . * 

Candidates serving under Government or a local or 
S La tutor v Both should Mibmit an advance copy in the pres- 
f-nhed form. Tin* a*p]) beat. ion fee should m such cases be 
a 1 taclied to the advance copy and not to the* original. The 
candidature ol such applicants may not however be con- 
sidered if the original applications do not reach the Com- 
missiorf s office* within a fortnight Irom the closing date. 
Unless applications in original or advance* copies with 
application tees are received within the* closing date, late 
applications may be rejected. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Aiipore, the* 27tb January 1961. 



82 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 22, 1962 


I Part 


Advertisement No, 8 

APPLICATIONS are invited from Indian ritizons lor the 
tallowing posts 

(a) One lecturer in Kavya in the West Bengal Junior 
Educational Service (Men’s Branch). Post permanent. 
Women <m ant able. Pay: IN 27* r j |. r >— Aot) 20 — (i">0 per 

month plus house rent allowance as admissible und(»r the 
rules. 

Qualifications; Essential— i d Title examination in Kavva 
and Yvakaiuna in Class 1 01 its equivalent; <ii) Ten 

vcai-’ expenerne in tea< limp in recognised tols Desirable 
(i) Becognisid icscuich work in Kavva and Alarnkara; 
(id Experience in teaching title students in tin* subject • 
(m) A title in anv one branch of Indian Philosophy 
piePnalih \vava an<l Vedanta; Civ) (Hood power of 
< xpicssinn in Bengali spoken and wiitten. Age:- Not 
nmn than l‘, \ears on the 1st March HM>‘2, relaxahle in 
case ol candidate- possessing except lona ll\ high qualili- 
cat ions and lor persons holding substantive appointment 
in the Kdm.it ion I)c*pai I inent . West. Bengal. 

Closing date— The 16th March 1962. 

do One Special Officer (Gangetlo Silt), West Bengal 
under the Commerce and Industries Department, West 
Bengal. Post temporary. Pay:- Its. Am— AO 900 (K.B. 
alter Hth and Kith stupes) per month plus house rent 
allow anre as admissible under the rules. 

Qualifications: Essential -( i ) Second (’lass Honours 
device in Chemistry followed bv (at Second *( Mass Muster’s 
degree m Vpplied Chemistry with Ceiamies as a nppeinl 
jmpei. Or, (b> It. Sc. (Tech.) degiee in Ceramics ol a 
iccogniscd l imci'-itv; ( r i > Three gears’ practical expeneme 
in prod in t ion ot earthenware, pot ten and terracotta etc, 
in a hu ton oi w < ) i K shop ol repute. Desirable (n Research 
i xpenence on the utilisation ol clay and other ceiamic raw 
mateiials, ui) Experu nee m statistical methods and 
< 1 1 1 . 1 1 1 1 \ emit ml Age: Ordinarily not mole than .‘Vi years 
on tin Ci Maih, 19(52, relaxahle up to to years in the 
case ol an except mna II x qualified candidate 1 . 

Closing date The 12th March 1962. 


Age concession 

The age limit Ini both the posts is relaxahle hv five 
years toi S< Instilled Castes/Ti lhes ami up to 4o years tor 
d isphu e<l pei sons 1 1 mil Pakistan. 

A candidaH win* heloie tin loth August M >4 7 w.n 
detained Imprisoned, interned oi exlerued on account ol 
his activities in tenneetiori with the count r,\’s sti apple tm 
independent! . not hemp convicted ol an offence indicating 
moral tin pit mb, shall he entitled to a t nnecssioii in respect 
o| the ape limit the concession planted will lie equal to 
the o\a< t pci md ol detention, impi isonment . internment or 
cxternmcii i ulleied up to a maximum ol tour ycnis 

Apply to Secretary with a Treasury Chilian ol IN. “> 
umler head “\X\YI- M iseelhineoiis Beeeipts ot Public 
Service ( ’online sioii. West Bengal”, ot a (’tossed Postal 
Oidci ot IN "> pavable to “Secret an, Puhln Service Corn 
mission* si Bengal”. Overseas candidates may deposit 
their apple at ion lees with the lliph Commission ol India 
or the Indian Emhassv, as tin* cjim* may he. Particulars 
and piesiiihed applnation tonus arc oblamnhie Imm the 
otlire ol l lie Coiimnssion, Anderson House (proimd llooi ) 
Alipmc, C.ih-ut ta-27 personally or on sending a sell- 
nddressed envelope (size 10"x(»") with postage stamp o| 
A. r , ill*, ami the name of the post super scribed on the 
envelope Those who intend to take application lorms ami j 
or submit the applications personally, should <lo so between 
10- 1 A a m and A-00 p.m. on lull working days ami between 
10 In a m and 1*2 Ml p.m. on Saturdays. 

A. (\ BOV, Secretary, 

Public Service Commissmii, West Bengal. 

Alipore, the Sth February 1%2 


CORRIGENDUM 

IN partial modification oi the Commission's adverts, 
7n< nt No. 2(1) of 1902 inviting applications for one tern 
porary post of horticultural overseer, Government Cinchona 
Plantation at Darjeeling under the Cinchona Directorate 
West Bengal, It is notified tor general information tin’ 
riumhci ol posts is two instead of one as pre< lJ<M1 J 1 
advertised. 

The scale Of pay attached to 1 h<» posts has since 
i evised as i ollovv s ; -- 

IN. 200-10 100 (E.B. after 10th stage) per 

(imlu-ivc ol dearness allowance hut c\< lusiv ( > , 
hoii'-i rent allowance). 

The closing date is extended to the 26th February 1902 , 

A. C. BOY. Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, We t INn^i 
Mipore, the 1 Ot ii February 1902. 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, 
BIRBHUM 


Insolvency Case No. 1 of 1962 

NOTICE I hereby given that Shri Bholanath Mondal 
son ol late H.ui Mondal, ol Dnl.i ajpm . thana and t-iioukj 
Duhraipiir, DM Bnhhiim, has :i ppl um I to this conn 101 
being adjudged an insolvent. The Mth day ol Man h |!)oii 
ha^ been fixed lui healing thereof. 

s. C TAM KDAB, Addl Dist Judge- m-ehil^ 

tl7A I 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUBORDINATE JUDGE, 
ASANSOL 


Insolvency Case No. 4 of 62. 

Petitioner Sew Prasad K until, miii ol late Bam Mini' 
Km 1111, h\ Mste Hindu, bv occupation scr\n,< 1 1* -0 i j 
at S1111 11 Id liovv 1 ah Ixulti, poln e-stat ion Kulti. ilimvLi 
and Sub rep.istiy Asansol, district Burdwau 

I I is heiebv notified that Hu* ahovenumed petilnmci in 
applied 1 c » hr udpnlged all insolvent The eoiilt Jus i»j« 
teii'd that aupluution lixing KMb Man h 1902 toi 1 he 
healing thenol. 

N C IMTTA 

Si 1 1 ir u din. 1 1 e Judge, Insolvency J in 1 diction 

(Hi") I 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUBORDINATE JUDGE AT 
ASANSOL 


Insolvency Case No. 5 of 62. 

Petitioner Aiavvalal Nuriia, >011 ol late Tutor Sunni, <>' 
Cttar Dlndka. police-station Asansol, chowki \sa.n i '»* 
disi i k t. Buidw an. 

IT is herebv not lin'd that the abovenaincd petilm.iei ti e 
applied to b.* adpidged an insolvent,. Tin* court I 111 * 1 
registered tt .it application fixing loth March 19(52 Im d' 1 
heal 11 c thereat. 

N. C. DATTA, 

Subordinate Judge, insolvency Jimsdnoon 

C 160 - - T > 




TIIK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 22, 1962 


83 


,uE COURT OF THE SUBORDINATE JUDGE AT 
M THE U DARJEELING 

„ an cou8 Appeal No. 7 of 1961 arising out of order, 
dated 20th May 1961, of the Court of Munsiff, 
gjljg U ri, in O.C. 8ult No. 15 of 1961 vacating ad- 
interim Injunction granted by that Court. 

Matnndra Nath Roy o| Sdigun — Api*'llant. 

Vcr sus 

Krdainath Prasad and others Respondents. 

IlKItKAS the abovenamcd A ppclluiil lias fill'd an 
' ’ | iU1( | m split' of best efforts tin.' nnf nr of sorb appeal 
^ild n«»t be served on the Pro-Respondent s Nos. 3 Ram 
lll, .|\ .in Piasad and No. 4 Kambalm (Junta. who are now 
.v-.hot-T .it Balua, l\(). Chandpur, polrcc-stat ion Said war, 
wtn( t Ballia (U.P.). and they am heicl»\ noticed to 
Ihm.ii on or before 27th February 1962 in this Court 
i'son.ill> or through a duly instructed lawver to answer 
II mafiuial questions relating to the appeal tailing which 
|j, (l |)|>c;il shall be beard ex oarte. 

S. C. MAJUMDAR, Sub-judge 

( 167 - 1 ) 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
(IN INSOLVENCY) 

Notice of Adjudication Order 

no. :u ok imu 

Kewalram Sharma at present residing at No 59. 
|\it Imringhata Street in the town oj Cult utt-a ami 
i;it id v earning on business at 85/1 I ppei ('hit pm 
Ituad in Calcutta aloicsaid, Kx paOe the Creditm 

•ill in \ Solicitor . Shri N N. Ken 

l\ tin 12th da\ o| December 1961. an oidei was made 
tli* 1 High Court at Calcutta in its Insolvency .him 
M 1 in ad|udguig the ahoveiiained as an Insolvent 

X(*ti Ml debts due to the e Mate should h< % paid to 

hf i'd ibis 6th da.\ ol February 1962 

M. M. CHAKK ABAKTTY, 
Offiual Assignee of Cal* utta 
oiim i! House St reef , ( ’alcut 1 a 


T1MIR KUMAR RAY. bb.H , intends to he enrolled as 
mi Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 

(101- 1) 


DILIP KUMAR DAS (ilT|»T\. LL.B . intends to lm 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(102 - 4 ) 


\\C.\RM\L \(1 R \W VC, LL lb. intends to be enroll- 
ed as an \d\ orate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(103 4 ) 


HIM \U KUM \R D A IT A. LL.B. intends to he enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(104 1) 


DfLTP KUMAR MUKHOP ATHIYAY. LL.B, intends 
to be enrolled as an Advocate' of Calcutta High Court-. 

( 105 - 4 ) 


KKDAR NATH CH \TTOP.VDH Y AY, HU, intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 

( 106 — 4 ) 


SUKIMTI HHUSI1AN WTII hU H , intends to 1 H 
enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court 

(128 \) 


M A MINOR AK ITM A R. BTIAUMIK, fh II intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta* High Court. 

(129 A) 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
(IN INSOLVENCY) 

Notice of Adjudication Order 

NO. 2 OK 1962 

Mis Alma Ceenlia Payne at present ami lately 
residing at No. 8 Wellesley Second Lane in the towui 
"i ( .ilcutta and at present- of no occupation, Kx parte 
die debtor. — Tn person. 

^ the 2nd day ot February 1 962, an order was made 
High Court at Calcutta in its Insolvency .Juris 
l,,n adjudging tire abovenamcd as an Insolvent. 

Hite, A 1 1 debts due to the estate should be paid to 

,;v bd this 12th dtiy ot February 1962 

M. M. C H A K R A B A KTTY , 
Official Assignee of Calcutta. 
Council House Stre^fe, Calcutta. 


I, VhSlIMIN MiAV W Ml KI1KH.1KK 1.1. It . inl- nds t„ 
be < moiled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(130—4) 


MR1TYUN.IOY D \S C! T ITA bh It, intends Ip he 
cm died as an Advocate ot tin Calcutta Higli Court 

(131 4) 


SHUT LAKKHMT NARAYAN DATTA, M.Corn., LL.B., 
intends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court, 


(133 1 ) 


SM 
us an 


COURT BANKKJKE, LL.B . rntendh to be enrolled 
Advocate ot Calcutta High Court. 

(134 — 4) 



84 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 22, 1962 


NAZLA HOB, LL.B., intends t» be enrolled 
Advocate ol the C alcutta High Court. 


as 

( Ka- 


il n 
I) 


M A 1)1 1 UK A B DAVE, LL.IL, intends 
an Advocate oi tin* Calcutia High Court. 


to Ik 1 cm oiled as 

(170 1) 


SHIM AMb KUMAR 1) VITA, LL.IL, intends 
enrolled as an Ad' ovate ol Calcutta Hit'll Court 


to 

(171 


be 

1 i 


AMIYA KUMAR MEKHEIUEE, UU. B.. intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate oi the Cabutta High Court, 

(172 -I) 


NANI CORAH ( HOWDIH RY, HU B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Yd'otaie ol the Calcutta High Court. 

( 1 70— -I ) 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
Original Jurisdiction 

COMPANY APPLICATION No IS Ot 1902 
In the matter oi the Companies Act 1930 
And 

In t he matter ol Hhngnt and Expoi t Import Private 

Limited. 

A nd 

Since Gaucslt Trading Company Pnv.itc Limited. 
Bhagat Export and linpoit Pn\ate Limited Apple ant 

NOTICE CONVENING THE MEETING OE 
SHAREHOLDERS 

NOTICE is herein given that bv an oidei . dated lie 
22ml .la n iiaiy 1902, Lbe Coint has directed a meeting o! 
the shaieholdcis ol the appluanl nmipam lor the purpose 
ol considering. and, it thought lit appiovmg with or with 
out modifim I ion, the (omproiui.se oi arrangement proposed 
to he made between the applicant Company and Since 
Ganesh Trading Company Rnvate Limited. 

In pursuance oi the said Ordei and as dime tod thcieiu, 
iurthei notice is heiehv given that a meeting ol the 
members <>| the applnant < ompanv will he held at it 
registered ofliee at No. II. Shih Thakur Lane, Calcutta, on 
Monday tin* 20th March 1902, at 3 o’clock in the alter noon 
at which tmie and plme the members air requested to 
at U’tul. 

(’opies ol the said cmiipi omise or arrangement and ol 
tin* statement under set t inti 393 can he had tree ol ehaige 
at tljo said legi.stoied ofli< e ol the applicant comparn oi at 
the office o| its Solicitors. Mes.si.s_ Sandersons iV Morgan- 

0 and 7, Netaji Suhhas Road, Calcutta 

Persons entitled to attend and vote at the meeting inav 
vote in pci son oi bv prow provided that all proxies in t lie 
preseubed lorm are deposited at the said rogislcied of fit e 

01 the applicant company not later than 18 hours h< lore 
the meeting. 

forms of proxy '‘an la* had at the said registeied ofliee 
ol the applicant, company 

The Court lias appointed Sim Kali Charan llhagat. and 
tailing him Shri Gaianend Bhngal, as Chairman o| the said 
meeting. The alun ('mentioned compromise or airangement 
il approved by the meed mg will he subieet to the 
sul)se<pient approval ol the Couit 

Dated this 20th day ol Eehiuaiv, J<K>2. 

K. C. RIIAGAT. 

Chan man appointed foi the meeting 

(176 — 1) 


I p ar? I] 



PURULIA DISTRICT BOARD 


NOTIFICATION 

Dated Purulia, the Kith Eehiuary 1 u ij 

THE District Board ol Purulia at its Sperm! \i , 
held mi the 20th .January 1902 resolved that (V SiS 
lev ied in this district dining the ensuing Cess Y',. ;u U 
in.iximum rat<* oi 0.12 (Twelve Nava Paisa > pet p, )( 1 
the annual value ol lands umlei section 40 oi tlu u, 
and Orissa Local Self-Government Act, 1883, , , 1,1 

bv Ihhai Act XI oi 1944. ‘ ' 


l ILLEGIBLE i 
for Chairman 

( 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, i <) &6 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF COLLIERY CONTRACTORS 
PRIVATE LTD. 

NOTICE is lierehv given that a meeting o! tin } l( 
holder- and creditors ol the company shall he hi-fi lt! | 
regisl ei ed office ol the company n 1 \o S, Lvmv |> \ t 
Calcutta, on Mnudav the 12th Maieli 1902, at tdn 
and 3-30 p in respectively, to consider and it though' 

1o pass the subjoined Resolution as Speual R rM “j, , 
with oi without modification. 

“Resolved that it has been proved to the s.m 

ol the Directors that the (ompanv vrun. 1 
icason ol its liabilities eontmm its’bu-in. 

sl »< b the eoiiipanv be wound up vuhm , 
and that Shri.. ... . be apponi', , 

Li<|Uida,foi oi the comp.inv ioi sm h wmdin 
on a remuneration oi R.s.. 

Explanatory note. The I up cpnal ol t|„ ,n 

<I,KI onl ' : ""l hiivo .-ilic.tih s„l|c,c<| ,, I,,. ,.| 

J*' t'.lll II III’. HcskIis till' Colli p.t II V O In nil'll 1,1 
(.Iili.lil IOS lor IN. I l,(Wi:l :il ii P The col ii p'.i ii.\ li.m 
and tie Direct, oi s have decided not to lonlmuv t,.i> 
busme <■ , lienee it is bettm lo wind up voluntanb 

Bv Oidei of t he R. •am 
3. I) LAHA, Direct. a 

8 Lvons Range, (alnitta-l, 
the 14th Eebmarv 1962. 


IN THE MATTER OF INDIAN COMPANIES ACT, 1HI3 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF KEROSENE DISTRIBUTORS LTP, 
(In members voluntary winding up) 

N'O'IK. E is heiehv given that the final meeting ui ■ ■■ i 
memhers ol the eompanv will he held dm 1 It Ma.'ii !'"-j 
at 11 o'clock in the lorenoon at 10 Nimtollaghat " j 
( aleutta, foi laying before it the liquidator s statern- n' 
account lor the period 27th March 1961 to 1 7th FVi.ma 
RK>2, showing the manner in whidi the winding m» ' 
b(*»Mi conducted and the assets ol the company haw 11 
realists! and liabilities have been paid and lor rc'ii'i' 1 
rmv explanations in connection therewith and foi anti’ 
nsjig the liquidator to retain books and records "i I* 
company until such time as he thinks nocesx.m 


M. M. PANBEY, Lit|uidm*«. 


10 Nimtollaghat Street. Calcutta 
the Kith February 1962. 


d 7A — f 1 



I’.tlt'l' II I 


T 1 1 K CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 22, 1962 


85 


RE8ERVE BANK Of INDIA 
Public Debt Office, Calcutta 
Notification No. 1 62, West Bengal Government Loans 

f tl pursuant-" of rule I N of t In- Rule*, oi tin- ( >c \ t i unit nt ol India imdt*r sect mu 2S of tlit- I'nM < 1 >< hi A <■ t . I !'■* I . and pul dished in 

t | lt . ‘*1 in of India’' ni tin* Jot h \pul Ili-lii 1 lie following 1 ist ih herein advet t *Hcd of 1 he \\ est i »t m.ud ( .o\ t ninit ut Nciuihes 

| () vi rt<-. >n respect of which pr.inu facie p i oumh. c \i,st toi helu*\ ng thal the serujrit es li.nr hern lost and that ihr <la.ni of t hr 
i+jiot.. All p»Ts'im other than t lir <. lauimnt named helou who Iihu* an\ rla m upon these mi mines should mnmiuni- 
t( , immediately with llu Alanagei . Keser\ e Tank el I mha , )*id»l < Debt (Jlicc. Calcutta 

i’he list s divided into t w o pm is— “A” he up, t he list oi set unties now ud\ ri list d ft i the hi st 1 in < i i o' I i 1 1 ‘ J 1 1 * I .)«'.* 1 < u 

jus |)lt \ !OUsl,\ mortised 

LIST "A” 

4 per cent Wost Bengal Loan, 1968 

Value III wlnse name Freni w hat tlatt Name el rln manlls) lei Ntiml « i ai < 1 deh <*f 

issued. hearing iiit»*ie:.t . 'ssiie el dupheal* and mi null it ir iimI 

payment of discharge \«ha 

if,.. 

i I •• 1000 State Ihmk ol India Ih d Kept emhei I 057. Ram Duhil ( 'hat tt ijt t < a < N i * L Mnimpn 'b 

Oidei dated 4th 
Oelohel I'.Uil, 

1 I Ofdl 


NlUlthel of 
him iii d.v 


LIST "B M 

Nil. 


Dated ('.ihutta, the 12lh Fehnmry 1902. 


LOST 

TIIK ( itn t nmient Ih onussorv Note No CA12tH)()7 of the 
p ic* | n i t rnt <'on\ersion Loan (/I RMti lor Rs. 501) 
m;, - 1 1 1 . 1 1 1 \ .landing in the name ol Cnl nnla Chandra Das 
id 1 e- 1 embused 1o mii lulahuti (Julia )>v the Joint 
r • t ,i i In the (Jmeiument oi West Helical, Public Works 
D< , ,i ■ i n n'ii 1 Calcutta, the propnetoi h\ whom it was not 
aln, .Ilf! in the aloiesaid lndv nor endorsed to any other 
;m imiii having been list, not at* is herein given that pay- 
-i -i 1 1 o! i la ah )\ • note and the interest thereupon ba»\e 
i<* fit topped at the Rubin- |>eld Office. Rescue Rank ol 
linn. i ( ibntiu and that application is about to ht* made 
t"* the ,*-■ u< o| tl ii plica t e in tavour ol the Joint Seeretarv 
o’ i h< (m\ ei niiM»nt ol West BengaJ, Public Works Depart- 
""‘tit ’I lit' public ale cautioned against purchasing or 
"i tan u i - • dealing wdli the abovemen turned security. 

D. N. BANKRJKK. 

Joint Secretary to tin* 

(Jo\ eminent o| West Rental 
Duhlic Works Department. 
Diio.i, i i< 5th Februan I9(»2 


RCRIJC NOTICK 

NATIONAL SAVINGS ORGANISATION, WEST BENGAL 
REGION 

^ i' not died lor pi ic-ral mini mat ion .hat the icceipt 
,IM ' ^ •' ( ! i«> "»). (1 to Jt ) > and (I to Lb ol H<-< <*i j»t 
\i I' 01)5701? F ORiRSh C 12211 and R 51 MR ol 
h 1 <)<)(), lilt) ,nid *jh (h-nommat ions 'National Plan 

' f ’it tin ate* issued lioin the \sauso| Hea<l this! 
11 11 1,1 "din lfi)endr;i Kuiu.ii Choedlii” \ an authoiisci 
■lunr ( \ \o I I IJ7 ha\e been lost lioin his ei-,iod\ and 
u ' nmeut e| India would not he liable ioi claims 

‘ I ' v ' V ' ' ,M,t ‘J t lansaetioin- made lluouidi tin* lest l.als ei 
’* Itcu.pl Rooks meiitioiud above. 

S. MOOKKRJKK. 

Regional National Savings Oflieei 
West Bengal. 

h,{( ‘ ,! Hie <>th February 1902. 


NOTICE 

NO'I’K I is litM’ohv ^lAon thal Jogomha Nath Ma/annda«r 
has letued with llu* consent of the ol hei pailneis iiom 
1 he parhieiship business ol Autoniatie and Mlied Indus- 
Ines, ol No. 2 Commemal Buildings, Calcuttad, since 
Nth Jnnuan RMi2. 

I)at(*d tin* I5tl» February PJ<>2. 

Youis liHt.hhilly, 

SIIVWI SI * N I ) A R K \J A RI WAR. 
SHYAM NARAYAN SHI VAPOR 1 , 

RM ARAN I (II ARAN MOOKFRJl. 

continuing Parian*! s, 

(177 ! ) 


CREDITORS’ VOLUNTARY WINDING-UP 

Notice convening final meeting 

Naim* </f Com pa m Leather Land Ltd (In Liquidation) 

XOTICK is lieiehy given in puisuance ol section 509 
that a geneial meeting, ol the members of I In- aho\ enamed 
eompanx will b< li<*hl at the office ol the Inpndatoi el I In* 
enmpwix ai 2 ( liiireh Lam*, Caleutta-I. on llu* J(>lh da\ 
ol April RM12 at 1 O’Clock in tin* allernoon and a meet i up, 
</f llu* fieditorv. will In* held at the same place and on I In* 
^nnif* date at 2 O'Cloek in tin* allernoon Ioi j lie purpose 
of having an ae- mint laid helore them showing the nuHiiu'i 
in which tie* winding up lias been ( (inducted and the pro 
peif\ of flu* roinpam disposed of and of heannp any 
('Nplanatiou thal mav he given hv llu* lujindafoi arid aLv 
oj del ermining h\ a special resolution of tin* eompam/li\ 
(he creditors, t >u* manner in which the hooks accounts 
and document s ol t lie coinpanv and of ih<* lupudatm shall 
he disposed 

Dotted tips 16tli chn oi Fehi'iarv IJWJ2 

D N (JLIIA ROV 
Signature of the Lupudator 

(178— J) 



80 


THK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 22, 1962 


[Part h > 


IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 1958 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF BANARAS ART MUSEUM 
PRIVATE LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION) 

NO’IK'K is lii'ii li\ kim ii lliiil *!»'< oil ii'snliilimi ->l 

||, f. HUM nil): 111 till iminliri.s ol (),<• im„h|,hii.\ hi-lil oj, i Loth 
T -tiiii.-i i \ l!N |0 tli«‘ iiixli'i sinmil lias lii'on a|>|wnnt«l the 
lii|iinli. Ini m tin' < 'inn|ian.\ ri‘li’1 it'd 1 o al.i.ve- 
who Inn ini', mtrri'st v. hat soow'r ill thf affairs ol th 
( *■ mi i >:i n > is 1 1 *i j nos I <m | ,o ion fail i h«> "nch'i-sinmM 1 ai the 
add less givon below by Hth Mhi eh Ido-. 


G.U 1(1 SHANKAR 

Room No 1-7, 

(iri'iit K.is.,1'1 it Hotel, 

CiilMitta, (In l-lh I'Vliniury l'HKJ. 


Till PATH I 


- 1) 


I Notn <■ 1 ,, 1 ,'ii.int to si' 1 • mu 1K5 I tin- (Viinpanii'S Art. 

1 ‘ I 956. | 

IN THE MATTER OF SHREE 8ITARAM CO. LTD. 

(IN LIQUIDATION) 

\T a (i.'iii i .i I Mi'i niifi ol (hr alim rnaior l ( ’oliipaii.v hold 
on t hr ‘J 1st da \ ol M.ir.'h !!«.! thr li.ll.mitifi s|>r<ial 
icsolutioii was passed.- 

“Itrsolv i'll till, I hr CoiHliaii.v hr uonml up ' olmit m il.v 
as a r.nlilois N'.ilinitai v WimlaiK >•!> "> v'‘‘ w 

thr tio i that thr I’ompaliJ Is not a P"Mt'on to 
n, rot its liahilit irs anil Unit Shn H. t hhawrhhai i.i, 
K C 1 A ( 'ha ) t (‘i ed Accountant, be mid is neieby 
appointed Liquidator ol the Company on a lemuner.i 
lion ol It' mil and Unit t lie Liquidate! he and is 
hoiibv an. housed to eMUci.se all the powers given b> 
the ('on. p lines Ad, 1956, particularly those 
hv sc. t ion •'» 1 - ol 1 he Companies Ait., Ido 

including a uv Ot the powers g.v en b> Hanses (D to 
(,x) o! all. lion (2) ol section la ol I lie said At 
and that l.c he and is hereby also authorised to 
open and operate upon the hank account ol 1 ho 
Company will. am Hank and smb bank be and •- 
bereb\ cm p«. vw n*d to honoin all cheques, bills ol 
exchange and prnimssoiy notes di..wn, signed, 
accept *’<1 or made on bel.all ol the ( ompany by th- 
liKiuul.ilot and to ait on any institutions given lo 
the Impmiaioi with regaid to any aieonnt or 

transactions ol the ( ompany . 

|i ( )i Sloei Siiiiiam Co Ltd. tin Liquidation) 
H. Cl 111 A WCH II ARIA, Liquidatoi 

Dated CaKuilu, tin St h Fcbiwary 1962. 


(Hit) I; 


I Notice ol appointment ol laqnidatoi puisnant to 
section 5 Hi. 1 

IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 1956 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF SHREE SITARAM COMPANY 
LIMITED (IN LIQUIDATION) 

• (Creditors’ Voluntary Winding up) 

a (ompniN Since Sit ai am Coinpanv Limiled 
( In Liqmdat ion ) 

N.Muic o! l)ii v i ii( u *• . Trading Company. 

Xihlrrs- ol l!ro, -,ri.'<l Oilier. K Miidaii < 'Iml lorjrr liiin>‘. 
Caleutta-7 

Name and \ddiess ol Liquidator. Shii B. Chhaw 
ehharia F C.A.. 91 Netaji Suhlias Hoad, Calcutta-1. 

Date ot Appoint incut 2Kt Manh 1961. 

Hv uluuii appointed Hv members and ci editors of t lie 
l ompany. ^ ClIIJ AWCll H ARIA, Liquidator 

Since Sitarnm Co. Ltd. (In Liquidation). 


Dated Calcutta, the 8th February 1962. 


,( 161 — 1 ) 


NOTICE 

IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 1956 
AND 

IN TLE MATTER OF SHREE SITARAM COMPANY 
LIMITED (IN LIQUIDATION) 

lilt. Cioditois ot the ahoveriamed ('ompany are icquireo 
on oi he) ore the 2Hth day ot February 1962 to send then 
names and addict e*, and the particulars ol their debts ann 
, laims ol the names and addresses ol the Attorney s ( n 
any), to -Mi H. ( hhawehhaiiu ol A9 Netaji Subha.s Rnad, 
( hilcut ia-1 the Liquidator appointed by a Special l6>sohi- 
turn ot tin 1 Company and the Cieditois ot the Coinpanv , , t , 
the 2 1 st day ol March J9(il and it so inquired by note, 
in willing Irom the Liquidators, shall either in person <,i 
by their attorney s prove t licit said debts oi claim > 
.'lull time as shall be specified m smb notice or in d« *t .i u It 
t hei cot they will lie excludeil irom the benefit, ot any <h s _ 
tnbiition made beloie such debts are pioved. Hie ,‘Psi 

day ot Alai eh 19(12 at the said 99 Neiaji Subhas Hoad (; {1 |_ 

< 1 1 1 1 a , is appointed lot the investigation ol debt- and 

< laims 

H ( IIIIAWCIIHARIA, Liquidatoi 
Since Sitaiam Co. Ltd. (In Liquidations 

Dated Calculta the Mb Februaiy 1962. 

(H>2 1 1 


HF .1 H (D H F I A IMtlVVTK LTD. (IN LH)l IDA.’lON. 

NOTICK i.s hereby given in pursuance ol section t*»7 lh.it 
tin* Final Meitme ol the Membeis ol the ahov cunim <’ 
i ompanv will bo held at K/2 lla-Uinps Stieet C.ih uti.i t 
on I7tli Man li 1962 at 2 p.m. lor the purpose ol Ii.*vhil 
an cccouin laid hcioie I hem dinning the maiiuci in w in* it 
the w mdmg up ha been eouduited and t lie piopeily ol tin 
(i.Mijianx deoo-cd ol and ol healing any ixphnatnin ihat 
; i.iv be eiveii l>\ ‘lie liquidatoi an<l aLo ot «L*t< i rnmi mu hv 

spinal u-mh ol tin* (ompany. the inauiu'i in uIim-i 

the book s .uo(.(j|iU and (lociimenl s ol the coinpanv and *>! 
the liquidatoi hall ho disposed ol . 


AI. K PFH. Liquidatoi 


D.iied 191 li Feltiiiaiy J9(i2 


(I6S L 


IT is hen by notified that pal t iMTslup between nii Main 
Dev i. Rhagwaiqi and Krislinaji (lie lattei two hem, 
minus represo«itod t.lirondi then mollici and u.iiwii 
• ntanliaii Sin Mnha Devi ol vill.ip.c Scmaiia, l*() Itohi 1 
gan i , dist iic! Cliapra (Saiati) Hcliai . and ILininath ■sli.'uv 
in the hunne^ ol “Hamnath Shaw t V Haghimalh I’n aid 
tallied on at premises No 9, (Jraut St,ri»el, Calcitt I a- !a 
has het'D dm -olv'sl and I ho '-aid Sm Mol in Dev i alotio vv u 
ln*r two aloio-anl minoi sons lias m> connection witli no 
-nd hiiMiiess I In 1 said business now exclusively holmi^‘- 
to Shn Hamnatli Shaw o| No. 9» (Hant Stri’d, Cat nth) 

RAM NATII SHAW 


9 (Ji ant Si roct , ( lent t a 19. 


( 169—1 1 


CHANGE OF NAME 

C jiro\ioiisly Known as Sanal Ran, pin IJald.u l ,aU 
ibingcd mv name to Auirhan ILddeivN.ithan by A Hidu\ it 
No 'iSlibU ol 12th d anna i.v in the C.F.M. Com t 
now I will use the new name and title. 


A MR RAN MALDKICNATH \N 


21 /A Golap Shastri Lane, Calcutta-14. 


,(164-1 J 



V*n T 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 22, 1962 


87 


THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE FORT OF CALCUTTA 
Notice for Sale under Sections 118 and 119 of the Calcutta Port Act III of 1890 (B. C.) 

VOTICE 18 hereby given that the liability of the Commissioners tor the undermentioned Roods Ex the under- 
ipntioned vessels has in Wins of section 113(2) of the ubovomentiouod Art ceased on the expiration of five clear 
V j n#in tile date of landing. These goods accordingly leinain on the Port Commissioners’ premises at the Import 
\\ ii rehouse (South) Calcutta jetties and underload in wagons, at No. 3 and 4 King Georges Docks (outur 
1 tioruiline) at the sole risk and expenses of the owners and it not cleared on ot before 22nd March 1962 on 
merit ol all charges due will be gold by public auction on the 23rd. 24th, 26th, 27th, 28th, 29th and .‘10th March 
;i t Import Warehouse (South) from 9 a.m. 

The lots marked with asteriks were previously withdrawn and will not he withdrawn any more. Each asturik 
Min ,k indicates one withdrawal. No withdrawal shall l»e allowed later than one woek after the publication of tkia 
notice. 

Lots will be open to exhibition as per schedule below: — 

(1) At Import Warehouse (South) Calcutta Jetties on loth and 16th March 1962 between ten to fitteen hours. 
(*J) At 3 and 1 King Georges Docks outer plalforuilme on 17th March 1962 between ten to twelve houra. 


Steamer’ll Name 

Date of binding. 

1 954. 

Marks and Numbers. 

Quantity and Description. 

Holionfels 

2()th September 

1955. 

No Mark . . . • • 


Bundles rani boards 

lalakanyfl 

22nd Jum* 

RYPCRA. GEC, ChL 

1 

Case Electric Cable. 

dan Marlsy 

25th November 

AIM, Calcutta 

1 

Case Electric Motor. 

t'nmi ih . . 

8th Deceinhei 

1056. 

From Commercial Counsellor VSSK. Raiikok, 
Thailand To USSR Pavilion, Industries 
India, New Delhi. 


Case w heel. 

Tuimu 

261 h .ianuaiy 

KLM1, Calcutta 

4* 

Cylinders Nitrogen Gas. 

MitiIvimU 

10th July 

Nil. 

1 

Package Manila rope. 

stwl Muket 

2nd September 

Nil. 

1 

Ouse niHchtnary parts. 

Hnwnri 

21st, October 

No Mai k 


Coils Iron wire. 

i 0 Khnrtooin 

1 Ht h November 

(’ of K, S. Rly., Calcutta 

l 

Case t r . 1. mnchinur} 
parts. 

s mm Pnner 

1 2t h December 

No innik. 

i 

( !ase Tractor Implements^ 

1 ( ) Liverpool . . 

2Htb December 

Spencer, 1255, Calcutta 

l 

(’at ton earhurator. 

\ olia I 

Rot. 1249/56 

No mar k 

l 

Rag copra. 

Sfinilun 

1 275/56 

No Mark 

9 

Rales writing papei . 

ivmthiH 

1 275/50 

No mark 

4 

Ruudles wood pulp. 


Iml Navigator 

1957 . 

. . 1 0th January 

DM Co. (Cal/MJSC 412, ti V R, Calcut ta 

1 

Case valves and valve 

Kil.iirelit 

ILthJnnumy 

Philips, ( 'alcut ta 

12 

guide. 

Cartons bulbs. 

iHlaknln 

I7thJnnuniy 

.. LFT, Calcutta 

J 

Case nails. 

Marieker k 

1st Febniary 

No mark 

2 

Bundles wore. 

1 such Mnru 

21st Kebruai y 

Coni washing plant etc. 

1 

Case washing machinery 

kli\ ht»r 

. . 24th February 

. . TC & S 6063 

1 

parts. • 

Package personal effects. 

> 6 West Bengal 

18th March 

. . No mai k 

3 

Rags moulding powder. 

bun muter 

17th April 

H 1C, S-87-56, Calcutla. 

1 

Case isopropylttcetate. 

htrtizerifels 

2Hrd May 

ELMJ, ( ‘alcut ta 

1 

( 'ase heat ing elements. 

I’hilosDplicf 

13th June 

SWT, Calcutta 

1 

Case tools and AccaMonss. 

Hnlindur 

1 Htli J une 

No mark 

10 

Bags cal. carbonate. 

hid. Nav igator 

.. 16th July 

TR , Calcutta 

1 

Case rivets with wseher. 

huksang 

.. 24th July 

. . Nigam No 73 in a triangle 

1 

Case eyc-lo chain. 


88 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 22, 1962 


[Part j] 


Steamer’s Name 

, Date of landing. 

Marks and Numbers. 

Quantity and Description. 

Arabra . . 
Eastern-Muse 

1957 

31 fit July 

8th August 

F in a mark 

F in a diamond, Calcutta 

5 

A quantity of marble 
Cases provision, 

C/O Kutch 

30th August 

EA, Cal. or Nil 

o 

Cartons provision. 

C/O Kutch 

30th August 

EES, Calcutta 

1 

Carton cheese. 

Markhor 

1st September 

Director of Cinchona, etc. 

I 

Case Cal. Oxide. 

Omenkerk 

4t.h September 

CSH-SCo 350*** 

1 

Case Porcalmn Ksi„t Mn 

Omenkerk 

4th September 

The Director of Cinchona, West Bengal 

1 

ware. 

Case chloroform . 

Omenkerk 

4th September 

BASF, 525700 

2 

Packages Organ.,- n, on 

Omenkerk 

4th February 

Philips Cal. 

1 

cals. 

Carton merchandise. 

Sunny- Prince 

7th September 

MJ . 5358, Calcutta or Nil 

1 

Case M. V. part.' . 

A. Bertan 

22nd September 

BOH/Cal/221, Calcutta 

2 

Cases steel bushings. 

Kyoto 

1st October 

AKO, 4592 /Cal. 

r 

Case hand saw hladr. 

Kyoto 

1st October 

USAPLtd., Calcutta 

i 

Case ciicular saw 

Macharda 

5th October 

DSL, 4011. Caicutlft or I)SW, 401 7 /Calcutta 

i 

Case tool holdci bits. 

Keyoto 

Taksatig 

10th October 

l IS \ PLtd.. Calcutta 

i 

Case circular saw. 

13th October 

Body m a diamiond BB on top BL below 

i 

Case uncut glass bits 

Socotra 

14th October 

TCI, Calcutta 

*» 

Bags chemical. 

Socotra 

14th October 

C/12/31 /H432/ODBL, around . . 

2 

Cases cuticuin Talcum 

C/O Colchester 

14th October 

(JC <V Co. Ltd., CS2 10 /Calcutta, 

2 

Powder. 

('a see chemical. 

C/O Colchester 

14th October 

(»C /v Co., Ltd. CS211 /Calcutta 

o 

Cases chemical. 

Maidan 

19th Oetohor 

Z in a diamond 

1 

Case medical booklets. 

Mai dan 

10th October 

SC A, (Jo., Calcutta 

1 

Case lead seal. 

O/o Bedford 

26 th October 

R Ltd. Cal 

5 

Cartoons adv. mateoni 

Argenfels 

8th November 

SB J» of C 

] 

( ase medicine. 

Argenfels 

8th November 

BMW (Calcutta or NIL or B N fo. 

o 

Pkgs. automobile 

Kangola . . 

10th November 

Niclomen FLOCK D/20 Rangoon in a block 

1 

bones. 

Case Nylon cloth. 

Kybfels 

29th November 

S Ji around. 

(1K-J! Cambata Industries Pvt. Ltd. C^a 1 . 
otr 

LM 75221 Cal. 

1 

Case Picture and ti/inx 

Kybfels . . 

29th November 

1 

Case chemical. 

Temple Hnll 

9th December 

B 9209 SR 1011 C()ATT> Cal. 

1 

Drum synthetic i,u n 

Polikonda 

1 2th December 

K. N. Sahaya Esq. C/ o Hindustlum Vehicle 

•> 

Cts cutlery. 

Mashoer 

I8th December 

Ltd., Clive Row, (Jiil. 

I nd. Tube Co. 1953 Jamshedpur 

1 

Case chemical. 

Jala Jawahar 

Voy 

Cl 1/9/7104 in a diamond ( J I B L around . . 

] 

C/s Booling Bolts , tl 

Cannaiioro 

. Rot. 17/57 

SKA’ Co. order No. l*/Fll999(i/RP/225(i 

1 

Nuts. 

Case Audio Caret iSvitd 

C/O Yokohama 

Kot. 389/57 

Simlim via Cal. 

J. M & Sons P 24293 Cal. 

] 

Case Spare Reek tui !<v 

Jagsanti 

Rot. 399/57 

VMS or NIL 

2 

Machinery. 

Bundles (’on- iopc* 

Machardn 

Kot. 1001 /5 7 

AEJ/I/1401/ NMK 0373M 

1 

Case electric motor. 


Fleet Bank 

1958 

.. 8th January 

. . No Mark 

10 

Bags Sodium S ubdiot' s 
sweeping. 

Case wealing hj pine! 

Santhia 

.. 13th January 

.. 13-2- 103023 294, 0/c British Cutkha Transit 

1 

Ind. Splendour 

.. 10th January 

Camp., etc. 

2399 INC 1127 m a diamond PKCL mound, 

1 

Case Endless ht li md 

Exemplar 

. . 2nd February 

Cal. 

.. Nd or ADL, Cal. .. 

1* 

motor wheel. 

Drum Pyndu.c b,nc 

C/O Ely .. 

. , 3rd February 

. . No Mark 

3 

Bags Fluoi spat. 

C/0 Ely 

3rd February 

.. Volta* 206/8343 

1 

Case macJiy. pnili. 

(7 0 Ely 

. . 3rd February' 

. . RSN Chowdhury, etc. 

1 

Case Singer Srwmj: 

Riohenfela 

. . 8th February 

.. BE Co Cal. 

IS 

machine. 

Drums phenolic resin 

Tayin V. 

3rd March 

.. Herman Mahato Cal. or Nil 

1 

Case Album. 

Travelyan 

. . 4th March 

. . M of S 1380/15 Cangtok via Cal. 

1 

Cfl'jc Heater Carrier. 

Tamara . . 

10th March 

. . Frutal 

1 

Case Essential oil 

Tamara . . 

. . 10th March 

.. F. K. 13286 Cal. 

3 

Cases pipes and samplt 

Malakand 

.. Kith March 

. . No Mark 

SO 

Show case. 

Bags ehomical. 

Malakand 

16th March 

. . No Mark 

6 

Pch. angles. 

U Vivaldi 

1 9th April 

. . 323 in a diamond S.C. around Cal. or defaced 

1 

Bale paper. 

Rabenfels 

19th April 

.. 07-13540/43,07-13372 

5 

Cases hall bearing a 

Santhia . . 

. . 3rd May 

3S0.17R. K m r diamond, Bhilai 

1 

roller bearing. 

Case maehy . part . 

Frelawney 

. . 9th May 

. . 0954 in a diamond. Calcutta. 

5 

Drums chem.eal. 

Barenfels 

.. 11th May 

. . No Mark 

30 

Pcs. machinery Purls, 

Sangola . . 

, . 12th May 

.. No Murk 

1 

Bdle. Rubhci. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 22, 1962 


stoamor’a name. Date of landing. 


Marks and numbers. 


Quantity 


yh*W n ‘ * 

.Iplftgo Vinci 

H„ql!> I’lllff 

C o Hath 

Mimkoi 

Mflerkerk 

Mnsrkerk 

jalsjftwan 

Indian Navigator 

fhupr* 


7»r«matta 

*nthi* 

lasrsnnt i 

fhoysang 

[ilmdft 

Jaiadhnn 

Knto stone 
( o Kochester 

iiutenfels 

santhifi 
'A nt Ina 
withia 

|*. rt -Lancaster 

hilt ala 

[ ulmlii 

Hv ton 

IFeikork 

“•11 (iratria 

U Nhrowsbary 


16 th May 

7th June 
16th Juno 

14th July 

22nd July 
3rd August 
16th August 
16th August 
6th September 
12th September 
16th September 

16th September 
21st. September 

26th September 
22nd September 
8th October 
14th October 
27th October 
30th October 

1st November 
Oth November 

12th November 
13t,h November 
13th November 
13th November 
20th November 
29th November 
Rol No 455/58 
Rol 532/58 
Rol 1000/58 

1607 

Rol 1635 


The Manager, Oberai, Grand Hotel, 15 
Chowringhoo Road. Calcutta. 

Parry, Calcutta 

The Manager of Oberoi, (band Hotel, Chow - 
ringhee Road, Calcutta. 

Rev. W.M. Kempt on, Royal School, Jam 
shednur, Calcutta. 

SKD Philadelphia 

One Trangle M, E, A around T/553 

No Mark 

H. S. PL. EIV/107SV Saigemel 427 Row Cal 
ELMI Cal 

U. P. c. C. Calcutta 
N. r. Y. W (Calcutta 

N. P. Y. B. Calcutta 
POM Aligarh via Calcutta 

Hindus than National Glass Calcutta 
Astes JR and VR around Calcutta 
UBS AT No. 3 SR W 
No Mark 

RK Tanara lndo-Asahi Calcutta 
AOC 4371 m a diamond O, W. E, around 
Digboi Via Calcutta. 

No Mark 
Nil, orAEl 

P C Ballast. Mfg. O/N 0147SO 
SNXXX Calcutta 
SN/4906 
SN/4729 

HSPL P/E 1V/1 178 Coppers etc. 

C, E, C around in a Triangle Calcutta 
No Mark 
No Mark 
ELMI Calcutta 

Nil 

No Mark 


89 


Description. 


Cases ad\ . matri al. 

Case col n hour. 

Chhc advertising material. 

Ctu. iimga/ nr and books. 

Case Mango Chutny. 

Casa machinery parts. 
Pkgs. machinery parts. 
Case Steel Clamps. 
Cylinder Nitrogen Gas. 
Pcs Auto Rmg. 

Case Nospray milk pow- 
der. 

Case merchandise. 

Case Scientific Instru- 
ment. 

Cose ("hart paper. 

Coil iron wire. 

Bdle. ooir rope. 

Bdln coils wire. 

Case cotton hand glubs. 
Case valve. 

A (juantity of fire bricks. 
Case Potiassium Ferro 
Cyanide. 

Ctn. Battariee. 

Case wearing apparel. 
Cose meohandise . 

Case structural parts. 
Steel cylinder. 

Case machinery parts. 
Stool empty drums. 

Bag dried ginger. 

Case electric. 

machinery parts. 

Drums Rod Oxide paint. 
Bag Calcium Carbonate. 


1 959 


ivnsaiig 

9th January 

1 Green stripping 

1 

.iiidonfols 

.. 13th January 

. . AS 6650 EVRO 9206 Cal 

1 

'arhuinha 

17 th January 

— Mr Tftko Miyoshi Representative of Ishikwasima 
Heavy Industries Co. Ltd. etc. 

1 

Indian Succors 

. . 22nd January 

Pradip Patna via Cal. 

2 

HhUIIh 

20th January 

. . AMKCDF194M Cal. 

*1 

Imping Vang 

. . 27th January 

James Finlay Co. 

■M 

Ill'll rsaho 

6th February 

No Mark 

1 

1) 


Nth February 

No mark 

lilljfl 

13lh February 

Pradip Patnu via Cal. 

2 

Indian Splendour 

23rd February 

190/58 P, T on top A, Co below 

1 

*7 

Barron fils 

6th March 

.. MTC 874681 

Indian Security 

. . 8th March 

.. Tata MareedoH Benz. 56/998/PA -21 35/04/68 
Jamshedpur Cal. 

1 

‘irvoland 

11 t-h March 

No Mark 


van ah 

12th March 

.. IRANI Cal 

16 

o ( 'event ry 

. . 1 4th March 

. . Dalmia iron Steel Ltd. 

*10 

fftuarn . . 

. . 27th March 

Calcutta in a diamond on To]) NT below 

C.L. 

1 

Hereford Beacon 

5th April 

L.E.E. Co New Delhi 

1 

(ton Campbell 

. . 10th April 

S. K. Ghosh 202, Upper Circular Rd. Cal . . 

1 

^Hrikark 

. . 12th April 

. . H.G.E.C.Ltd Calcutta 

1 

N 1) Bristol 

13th April 

No Mark 

1 

T aladhir 

15th April 

.. VPCC, R 1/1287 in a diamond S.W. on 
top Cal. below. 

5 

^toirrlova 

. . 6th April 

. . No mark . . . . 

85 

'to,?jjarga 

. . 2nd May 

Protap in a diamond N.D.K. around Cal 

1 

'^laputra 

. . 9th May 

. . No mark 

2 

Win Thor 

13th May 

. . S & P P. Ltd Cal 

1 

^ii.ikumm-Q 

. . 16tli May 

.. ID Cal 

3 


Pkg. steel strips. 

Case copper tubes. 

Case calendar of 1959. 
Cooes broken glass tubes 
Drum Klin Coat. 

Ctn Chemical wood pulp 
Pcs. stool pipe. 

Pics. Hinnil Billots. 

( 'lions Glass tiil»es. 

Coho Machinery parts 
c/s chloroform B.T\ 

Coho Garrago Tools 

A quantity of Tin cuttin 
c/s cylendnr linerH 
Drums solution of Natural 
Resin 

Case Trayojihana # 

Case maehy. parts 

Suit Case (old books «k 
Pomona I papers). 

Case volume control 

Bag m/diso 

C/« gpann ors sets. 

bogs Hoda Ash sweepings, 
bag merchandise. 

Drms. mineral oil. 
ctn. Cork slab 
C/s Sawing madiino and 
accessories. 


90 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 22, 1962 


(Part j 


Steamer’s name. Dato of landing. 

1959 

Marks and numbers. 

Quantity 

Mitakamaru 

IHth May 

DC Cal 

1 

Du. 

.. IHth May 

Ditto 

9 

Do. 

1 0th May 

24XX Tn a diamond TW C around 

1 

Ind Exporter 

1 9th May 

IC1 Cal 

♦3 

Eastern Saga 

. . 24th May 

Bhatt C. H. & Sons 278 Cal 

2 

Stool Surveyor 

. . 10th Juno 

1) A Co. B 13977 Morox. Bombay 

I 

Dirt Bank 

16t h June 

No mark 

6 

Meerkerk 

17th June 

ELMI Cal. 

2 

Ravanaa 

Jftth June 

No mark 

2 

Socotra . . 

.. 21st. Juno 

PIAV m a triangly BOC around Patna via Cal 
below. 

1 

Ind Renown 

29th Juno 

Adbir Duttn. & Co (P) Ltd. Dalhousia Sqr Cal 

1 

Pemba . . 

. . 2nd July 

Miss Nopn Maitra C/o mrs sontoeh Kr. 
Rohatgi. 

1 

Bengal 

3rd July 

ELMI or nil 

2 

C/o London 

.. 12th July 

NV Cal. 

1 

Towali 

.. IHth July 

ELMI Cal. 

1 

Steel Recorder 

JHth July 

WOS Parimal Mukharjee Cal. . . 

7 

UCKA .. 

.. JOtli July 

D.D. C/o. P.D. Jamshedpur. Tflianagsr. Cal. 

1 

Sist/inn 

. . 31st July 

Tihco, Tata, Ovd. No. 5304/Puref etc;. 

16 

Nnyangu 

4th August 

KM. E 191 Cal. 

1 

Ind. Splendour 

12th August 

KH . < At ' Ltd. around Cal. below 

1 

Malaya . . 

.. 12th August 

Bayer in n circle 

1 

Mundasmv* 

IHth August 

SPWt’al. 

1* 

Morelia . . 

22nd August 

ELMI Cal. 

*7 

Malaya . . 

24th August 

1SV 8508 Cal. 

o 

Ind. Trader 

. . 29th August 

R . Key. or Nil 

1 

Jalagobind 

29th August 

K JS Rjshra or Nil 

2 

JaIago\ ind 

29th August 

No mark . . . , 

1 

Haroford Beat on 

1 st September 

717/21 1 Secure Cal. oi Nil 

2 

Eastern Saga 

2nd September 

No murk 

1 

Golden fels 

. . 2nd September 

Machino Techno (Sales) (P) Ltd. Cal. 

1 

Chopra . . 

. . 7th September 

LACWCal. 

1 

•Tala/ eel . . 

.. Kth September 

No murk 

1 

Kitanja . . 

IHth September 

No mark 

2 

Jaladharati 

24th Soptambei 

0(1 1 Cal. 

12 

Mabanmln 

.'lOth September 

BL Cal or Nil. 

1 

•Ingram . . 

. . IlOf It September 

No mark 

7 

Port. CRuheO 

.. 9th October 

CM Reclaim. Test sample Col. . . 

1 

C/o La n roster 

9th October 

DLF/PCK/5I6/59/BB 331XN 206 Cul. 

1 

Baltyk. . . 

Kth October 

No mark 

4 

Mauler Kerk 

1 7th October 

ELMI Cal. 

l 

Bank urn 

2 ."if h Octohci 

No mark 

1 

Radja. 

. . 2HtJi October 

1343/59. Java Bengal Line P.B. 71 Cal nr Nil 

1 

Steel Vendor 

2Ht b Oetobei 

T'nnair. N. Delhi India Via Cal . 

5 

Do 

. . 2Hth October 

Mr. George Murro 86, Ripoti Street . Cal 16 . . 

1 

Mancbura 

. . 3rd November 

DBC. 247406 Freneli Motor Ci»l. 

1 

Pandiin . . 

. . 23rd November 

No mark 

1 

Honan p . . 

. . 26th November 

P.B.C-1293 

1 

C/o Chicago 

2nd December 

Jacks A t ( to. Cal. 

1 

Ind. Success 

. . 28th December 

Ja> Engineering Co. 

14 

Hoegh Cape 

29tli December 

RGWCal. 

10 

Mnlnneha 

.. Hot 5/5 9 

AFC 6(36 Cal. 

16 

Malancha 

. . Rot 5/59 

No murk 

1 

Loksang 

. . Rot. 

113 '59. 

No mark 

5 

Nankai Maru 

Rot 551 /5 9 

MIT/PM in a triangle KR/Cal. below 

1 

Tnd. Merchant 

.. Rot. 963/59 
. . Rot 876 '59 

STC or Defaced. 

95 

S/O Andhra 

J P in a diamond. Cal 

1 

Marklior 

. . Rot 937/50 

R m a diamond. WPFC around. Cal. 

*> 

On in phi vs 

Rot 1031/59 

No mark 

24 

LoksatiHg 

.. Rot 1076/59 

1C or Nil 

4 

Loksanag 

Rot 1076/59 

Nil. 

o 

N’nrdann 

.. Rot 1286/59 
.. Hot 1397/59 

TRM, Cal. 

34 

Ind. Trader 

0039/58 in a triangle EHC around t Cal. 

1 

Mangola 

. . April 1959 

1960. 

Vov -2501/5 

5 

Tasmania 

17th January 

DOPR. N2661, Cal. 

1 

Chakra t a 

21st January 

Sangharshi, PI 491 

4 

Ohakrata 

2 lit- January 

Sangharshi 

.•> 

Coneral Bern. 

23rd January 

PIMP 347731, Cal. .. 

J 


Dwoription. 


C«w SowiDR mochui,, „ ar , 
C/» Hewing machine ^ 
Case Galv. Iron 8orm , 
cylender Arclon (j ' thH 
Ctns. a quantity 0 f c j wto 
rioratod corks. 

Ctn Motor Horn 
Bags rock phosphate. 
Tapor Drills chemical, 
bags carbon black. 

Case Neon Gastub**, 

Pkg. Printed booklets. 
Pkge oil Painting 

Ctns bras« lamp naps. 
Ca«o hydr«iidic flmd. 
Caao machy parts. 

Ctns used books. 

Case, m/ dice 
Crts. Firebricks 
Case motor part aid 
accessories. 

( ’asc pumice stone. 

Case raw suited skin. 
Drum synthetic rss.n. 
Drums Nit ro cellulonestr. 
C/s Leather, 
pee copper ingot. 

Coils Iron wire, 
reel paper. 

Bdles Tubes 
Drum Palm oil. 

Case Iron pkg. 

Case Lae logon. 

Crate Glass tubes. 

Bdles wood Pulp. 

Coils G. I. Wire. 

Keg Tartane Acid. 
Bdles. nut urn 1 ruhhn 
('use Test Sample of cut 
pi ores rubber 
Case steel sti ps 
Reels paper. 

Case mueb v. Part*, 
pkge Porcelain coronxxir. 
Drum Synthet'c Lien 
Ctns Paper Envelope. 
Case Rice Brnn. 

Case printed booklets. 
Bdle coppci st i ips. 

Bdle Tissue paper. 

Case clutcb covn . 

Drrns. m/dice 
bags chemical. 

("oils, wire. 

Coil wire. 

Drums. Oil. 

Case solvent cement 
Bags sodn ash. 

Bag betolnut. 

Cases machy. parts. 

Bags and a quantity of 
loose copra. 

Bags copra. 

Bags cop? a. 

Bags whiting. 

Case pi ess board. 

Piece* Jron pkgs. 


Case valves. 

Bales paper-. 

Bales paper. 

Case printing ma<h.Y- 
parts. 


ljUKT ii] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 22, 1962 


Steft®**** n * m# 

Date of landing 

Marks and numbers 

Quantity 

Hobi*b 

fAlftHbniv 

l^lsdbruv 

1960 

8th February 

. . HC 351/59, Cal. 

1 

9th February 

Philips, Cal. 

2 

9th February 

Indo Swiss Trading Co. P33, Mission Row 

Ext. Cal. 

1 

^rrford Beacon 
i/iksuop 

I'ftiHsng. 

'|sn Stuart 
klfidbHiina 
tnt | KnH.'ovour 

14th February 

No mark 

20 

. 17th February 

. . SDGW, Cal. or Nil .. 

*3 

19th February 

C1BAPL, 1128/1 1 130 in a triangle 

1 

19th February 

.. RK.W and Co., Cal, .. 

1 

2nd March 

. . No mark 

1 

. 2nd March 

Mohini Mohan Hoy W. B. G. Press Alipore 

1 

;jevanb» 

Vvunba 

^xdaksbmi 

, () West Bengal 

6th March 

3426 in a diamond B.A. on top 

1 

0th March 

Koshoram or N il 

1 

. 10th March 

No mark 

1 

14th March 

No mark 

2 


15th March 

CNMC in a diamond Delhi via Cal. below 

i 

pontflkotti 

praunfcls 

j'iW*ul 

Uparoa 

jpaooa 

Iftpilals 

jndtern Trader 

15th March 

. . LACB, Cal. 

2 

15 th March 

. . AGR, Cal. 

1 

16tli March 

Nil 

2 

20tli March 

. HGKC Lid. 52/50 .. 

7 

. 20th March 

. ETA Calcutta 

3 

. 23rd March 

. . RBF 1341/32 

1 

. 29th March 

. No mark 

3 

^wtern Trader 

Jvton . • 

. 30tli March 

No mark 

o 

. 1st April 

No Mark 

1 

Swansea 

2nd April 

Mr. Frauk J. Potash Bokaio Tharmal power 

1 

Jdlttduhita 

4th April 

Station. 

. . PL N64/986070/149 . . 

1 

lalmlubita 

4th April 

. . PLN04/90G802/119 .. 

1 

lulsduliita 

4th April 

.. PL N 64/965795/ 152. 

1 

UlrtduJiita 

5th April 

. . HOEC Ltd. Imp/239 Cal. 

4 

Phorfrid 

. . 9th April 

. . No Mark 

36 

riiorfritl 

. 9th April 

. . Bata Cal or defaced. 

93 

I Oldoiidrof 

10th April 

. . SV Madras 

, 

tmonoan Mail 

11 tli April 

Bihar cottage Industries 

4 

Batiybryan 

12th April 

.. IBH.Cal. 

1 

Kaciiarda 

14th April 

.. SPJ E873 MP7 Cal. . . 

*4 

ilartm There 

16th April 

. . H.G E.C Ltd. Imp. 64/58 52/59 

3 

?amphyus 

19th April 

.. R. J/31/3 

7 

Kwldrotch 

21st April 

No Mark 

3 

£u*lii retch 

.. 2 1st April 

. . No mark 

1 

fiiwsliora 

. . 26th April 

. . AE1 56/190 Madras 

*1 

laumla . . 

. . 30th April 

SIR WO In a diamond. 

10 

CO I Jeliur 

30th April 

. . Mazda Lamp 12/230/2 10V/400W Gesma/V 

4 

juJ Com me roe 

. . 2nd May 

or Nil. 

. . No mark 

1 

Uyalaxmi 

liipru 

. . 3rd May 

. . No mark 

I 

8tli May 

. . UPC A Agreo/Txxx 437112 

5 

lliupru 

. . 8fch May 

.. 4673 Cal. 

o 

lahout 

. . 12th May 

.. OCICal. 

8 

faipura 

. . 23rd May 

. . NS4<\ Cal. 

3 

tarn 

. . 26th May 

. . BSC 1784 Cal or Ni 

1 

uluvikram 

1st June 

. . F.L.C. Lac crepe yellow or Nil . . 

1 

^Ivikram 

1st dune 

. . No Mark 

1 

-mevorett 

. . 1st Juno 

No Mark 

1 

faltwJuliila 

. . 4th April 

.. PL 3H /905800 / 1 194 
.. TPWCalorNiJ 

1 

fktwti . . 

5th Juno 

20 

WHtoru Saga 

. . 6tli June 

No murk 

8 

"VHlioor 

. . 7 tli June 

LS In a diamond PJ S' .around Cal. 

1 

b^el age 

7th Juno 

Indian Textiles Co. (P) Ltd.. Great Easel rn 

1 

lalarca . , 

. . 10th June 

Hotel, Calcutta. 

. . No mark 

1 

UlaecA . . 

10th June 

.. E. 1R. 091027, 091028 

2 

^warzenfela 

11th June 

Ba\ er Cross LE 86V669 

2 

hneren . . 

. . 12tli June 

. . EIT 3752 Cal. 

1 

■"toplar 

1 3th June 

. . Oly Cal. 

2 

a ft?iwan 

. . 1 5th J une 

. . No. mark 

1 

a Rg>Wan 

. . 15th June 

.. SWP 074 Pal. 

5 

^padma 

. . 19th June 

..NIL 

1 


91 


Deteription 


Case roller bearing. 

C/a. elec?, valve. 

Cartoon m/dice. 

Bags soda ash. 

C/a. Arsenic oxide powder. 
Case chemical 
Case eyelotta brass. 

Case tool and accessories. 
Case fainted books. 

Case valve. 

Coil galv iron wire. 

Rag boric acid. 

Pch. insulator. 

Case titanium dioxide. 
Case lactogen. 

Ctn. printed books. 

C/s empty gas cylinder. 
C/S. Potonoio meter. 

C/s. Ampule Cutter. 

Case Lavaudiu oil. 
hales and a quantity of 
loose paper 
halos paper 

Case machinery parts. 
Case booklets. 

Case ball bearing. 

Case ball bearing. 

Case ball bearing. 

C/s Radio Parts, 
bags Mag. Carb. 
l>ags Mix of Cal Oxide and 
Alluminium. 

Drum m/dise 
C/s. curtain Fabrics 
Ctn. Printed books. 

C/s Cellulose Sheet. 

Cast) Radio Parts. 

C/s. Rayon Fabrics. 

Pom. Synthetic rubber. 
Case diary cum blotting 
pad. 

Case Hirxnatitc 
Rolls Rubber Sheets. 

Otns. muroury. Lamps. 

bag turmaric 
Case welding Rod. 

C/k. Cylinder Liner spare 
parts 

C/s. Eleotrioal parts. 

C/8. Bearing. 

C/s. Gang Condenser. 
Paper bag m/dise. 

Bale raw Rubber. 

Dium Empty 

Pet), broken Zinc Slab. 

Case ball bearing, 
bags Red oxide of Iron 

bags copna. 
drum cocoamit oil 

Case Raw Silk Curtain 
cloth. 

Cose pipo wronch. 

Crates steel rods. 

C/S Chlorivated Hydro 
Carbon. 

Cts Electrodes. 

C/s adv. materials. 

Pee. Round bar. 

( 'oils Iron Wire. 

Bdle Zino Dross 


92 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, FEBRUARY 22, 1962 


l Part 1 


Steamer's name. 

Date of landing. 

1960 

Marks and numbers. 

Quantity. 

Description. 

Maw an a 

25th June 

. HGEC HE 469 Cal. 

2 

C/s Porcelain bases. 

Chakdara 

29th June 

Mr. Brmn Shaw 23, Karnani Mansion, Park 
St. Cal. 

1 

Pkge adv. literal urc. 

Jal&palaka 

29th .Juno 

No., mark 

<> 

Bales cotton waste. 

Uman 

30th .June 

No. mark 

3 

C/sMaeliy. Parts. 

Uman 

30th June 

No. mark 

52 

Pcs. broken zinc 

Ind. Merchant 

7th July 

ELM1 Cal. 

58 

Crates gloss tubes. 

Ind. Merchant 

9th July 

Philips moulding powder or nil . . 

NDT.Cal. 

32 

Drums moulding powder 

Tab shy . . 

17th July 

2 

C/s Ball Bearing. 

Tuhsho . . 

17th July 

mi Ltd. Cal. 

2 

C/s Ball Boarmg. 

Tahshc . . 

17th July 

Philips Cal. 

3 

C/s Electrodes. 

Talishe . . 

17th July 

Philips Cal. 

1 

Case Electrodes. 

Talishe . . 

17th Julv 

N<> murk 

1 

Pkge machy. parts 

Talishe 

17th July 

No. mark and XXXdAU XXXUAS. 

1 

Case copper wue. 

Tali she . . 

17th July 

Voltas CHI90 67 791979 Bangalore via 
Madras. 

1 

Cose chemicals. 

'Pali nltc 

17th July 

206 in a diamond BT on top 
or no Mark 

1 

Bag chemical. 

Express 

23rd July 

TIL in a block 

1 

Case rods. 

Malaya . . 

24th July 

Voltas 21239 Cal. 

4 

Tins Galena lend ore. 

Malnytt 

24th July 

BSS Cram Mesa 

1 

Bag sweeping etnet v 
powder. 

Ind. Resolve 

25th July 

(JSMWAFCal. 

18 

C/h nickel salts ol R (JI 
Acid. 

C/<) Huroford 

26th July 

Hf« EC HE 469 

6 

C/h Porcelain bases. 

Sumatra 

27th July 

Cal. B.M. .. 

1 

Case essential oil 

Madulsima 

30th July 

HO EC HE 469 Cal. 

7 

C/« Porclain Bases. 

Calcutta Maru 

3rd Yugust 

HKS in a triangle B. S. Top. Cal. 

3 

C/s Umbrella clwtli. 

Calcutta Maru 

3rd \ugUH< 

888 in a tnugnle S C- on top 

2 

C/s Umbrella ciolh. 

Calcutta Maru 

3rd August 

888 in a triangle MC-on top Cal. 

2 

C/h Umbrella cloth. 

Calcutta Maru 

3rd August 

888 m triangle PK-on top. Cal. 

1 

Case Umbrella cloth. 

Wonoarato 

5th Augut 

Alkali .. 

«■> 

Paper bags m/dise. 

Wihinapa 

5th August 

Sen Rnliogh W/Jtm/1 /273 in a triangle 

24 

Drums stool wire 

.Jog tar a 

6th August 

FClOal. 

1 

Bale Raw Rubboi 

Indian Industry 

13th August 

No mark 

1 

Drum empty. 

Wihinopa 

lGt-h August 

Philips, Cal 

1 

Ctn machy parts (electric j 

Do. 

1 5th August 

Akashbani A-010/015 etc, in a diamond 

1 

Ctn electrical made, 
parts 

Jalakanya 

1 6th August 

No mark 

9 

Bdls coir rope. 

Chilka 

19th August 

Philips, Cal 

1 

Case Steel Cabinet 

Jnladuhita 

25th August 

No mark 

30 

Rags whit ing. 

Jalagovind 

26th August 

Do. .. 


A quantity of loose unod 
pulp. 

Aageedyk 

28th August 

Philips 25/60, Cal 

1 

Case chart papoi and 
inaey. parts. 

Exemplnr 

31st August 

Polyflim Savara 

9 

Cases Flower bulbs 

Javaxnail 

2nd September 

The Loyal Book Dept, Ludhiana, India 

3 

Ctns printed hooks. 

Protector 

4tli September 

888 in a triangle G-R, Cal below 

1 

Case umbrella cloth 

Jalakanya 

8th September 

No mark 

5 

Bdlos coir yarn 

Makalla 

14th September 

Philips, Cal 

1 

Case Recording paper, etc 

Auray 

17th September 

North Brook in a triangle B9RD, Cal around 

1 

Case (Steel Ring wads’ 

Eastern Maid 

22nd September . . 

PLYY, Cal 

1 

Case Chemical and Marin 
Parts. 

Qutenfela 

24th September 

3560, Cal 

2 

Cases Bricks. 

TV 

24th Soptemls'r 

Philips, Cal 

1 

Case Alluminium Rod* 

Do. 

24th Septemlx>r 

Hind Lamp Shikohabad 

l 

Caso rools carboilium w' ri ’ 

Do. 

24th September . . 

Hind Lamp, Sikohabad via Cal 

14 

Cases Ethyl Silicate. 

Do. 

24th September 

Hind Lamp, Shikohabad 

rj 

Packages Synthetic R^ 111 

Do. 

24th September 

3560, Cal 

2 

Cases Tubes. 

Oanuda 

26th September 

No mark 


A quantity of loose uni 
brclla ribs. 

New WeBt Minster 
City 

28th September 

HGEC Ltd, HE498 Tmp/2/60, Cal 

4 

Cases Porcelain Boars an d 
handle. 1 

Do. 

29th September 

HGEC HE498, Cal .. 

I 

Case Procelain Bases. 

Hongsoilg 

29th September . . 

No mark 

2 

Bags Betolnuts. 

Eastern Muse 

29th Septemlier 

PLW in a diamond, Cal 

2 

Cases Benzol. 

Sangola . . 

3rd October 

India MFC/15, Cal .. 

1 

Case paoking paper. 



, ]>UtT U J 


THK CALCUTTA UAZKTTK, FEBRUARY 22, 1962 


93 


Steamer's name. 


Date of lauding. 


Marks and numbers. Quantity*. Description. 


pindar . • 
ArJeHes • • 

p en takota 

\'ishw*ba 

^kiuuomaru 

Do. 

Misirtm* • • 

lteanvois 
KKlMft • • 

Kallada 

J)o. 

Mshibar 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

l)o. 

jlfthskork 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

]ud t ruder 
Do. 

Mulukand 
Minderkerk 
Minderkerk 
Ardollis 
Mu wan a 
Namangan 
Taknang 
North Hank 
lad Mail 
Do. 
JuVsoor 
Do. 

Do. 

Do 

Cat Mfaru 
Do. 

Carl Lover 
Do. 
Purnou 
Martin Thor 
CCKA 


1960. 

7th October 


Jessara 9708, Cal 

7 

Casas Piston. 

22nd October 


Geatetnor, Cal 

1 

Coho Bushes and bearing 

24th October 


Miss Awollet C/o Great Eastern Hotel. Cal . . 

1 

parts. 

Case inachy. 

19th October 


Gauhati Refiner v Rlv Siding, Cal or Nil 

14 

Bundles coils wire. 

30th October 


XXX BWGH1 

1 

Coil Iron wire. 

30th October 


3086 m a triangle A B on top. Calcutta 

5 

Coils Iron wire. 

4tli November 


\VA or \YT, Cal 

6 

Packages Ruhlior Sheet. 

7th November 


CCL. Cal . . . : 

1 

Cose esse nt ihI oil. 

12tli November 


T Psenson STF/WPM, Cal 

1 

Suit case used wearing 

12th November i960 

Mehta A Das, 15 Pullock St. M.V.D. Cal. 

1 

apparel. 

Pkge. welding Roils 

12th November 


S. Melidi Imam Hasan Manjil, Fraser Road, 

1 

Case personal eflects. 

13th November 


Patna etc. 

HGECImp 45 /GO H K 520 Cal . 

4 

Ciiseg Loud speaker. 

13th November 


Hindustan Motor Ltd. HM 3273 T2458/ 

3 

Cases milled files blades. 

13th November 


A7288 

H G E C Ltd. HE 505 Imp /1 1 /GO 

o 

Cases Procelian Bases. 

J3th November 


HGEC Ltd. Imp 45/60 HE520 

1 

(Vise Loud speaker. 

13th November 


Empire 2509 In a triangle IE on top New 

2 

Ctns. glass tumbler. 

13th Novemlior 


Delhi in Cal. below. 

HGEC Ltd. AC/517 Imp/31/60 Cal. 

1 

Coho Rail 10 parts . 

15th November 


I Ml 3 Cal 

2 

Cases electric resistance 

15th November 


RPC Cal . 

6 

Pkgs. films. 

J5th November 


HH. Maharani Prat iipgur Poona, India 

1 

C/s Porcelain Mare. 

15th November 


SAPE Santiago Valpaliar 

1 

Case packing paper. 

15th November 


P.M. Mohta Alger 6576 

1 

Case cigarette paper. 

13th December 


4855 Cal. 

17 

Cases Reels* Copper wire. 

13 th Decernlier 


Do. 

1 

Case Synthet ie Enamel 

17th December 


OSL around a triangle Cal. 

2 

Copper wire. 

Pkgs. sports equipments. 

17 th December 


Hind Lamp Shikahubad 

1 

Case steel round washers. 

17 th December 


HGEC 4121/3 Cal. 

r 

C/s Radio parts. 

22nd Docombnr 


CD C Cal. 

1 

Case Ball hearing. 

26th December 


AJvC Barrackpore, West Bengal 

1 

Ctn. toys . 

Rot 70/60 


No mark 

5 

Bak's wood pulp. 

322/60 


Do. . . 

9 

Bags steel holts. 

743/60 


Pure Alkali Corprn. Brand 

72 

Bags soda ash. 

767/60 


KAMITTEN Cal. .. 

1 

Paper hag white powder. 

767/60 


VNCo.Cal. . 

1 

Bag Bone Acid. 

786/60 


Jaikali in a diamond or nil 

4 

Bdl« coir rojH' 

786/60 


MJS m a diamond or Nil 

1 

Bdle. coir rope. 

786/60 


TNN m a diamond 

1 

Bdle coir rope 

786/60 


No mark 

1 

Bdle and a qty. coir yarn. 

1014/60 


888 in a triangle SG on top 

4 

C/h umbrella cloth. 

1014/60 


888 in a triangle MC on top Cal. 

2 

C/s umbrella cloth. 

1152/60 


PJC Cal. 

2 

B/s raw rubber. 

1152/60 


No Mark 

5 

Bales raw rubber. 

1301/60 


CNTEC in a block SNOD1841 

1 

Case formaldehyde. 

1503/60 


SlRW 

26 

Bdls. reclaimed Rubber 

1860/60 


BOn/Cal/340 

1 

Case Alluminiuin Sheet. 


UhenlelB 

Do. 

C/o Lancaster 
Jalugopal 
Maipara 
August Leaver 
Do. 
llopHttflg 


1961. 

10th January 
10th January 

14th January 
24th January 
lltli May 
61/61 
61/61 
971/61 


George Dorberth Cal. 

The Hony. Sec. lnd. Rod cross society, Omasa 
State Hank, Cattack. 

KG EC Ltd. 8505 etc. 

SKW Ho] cops in a diamond 
SPJ E877-60 etc. 

Do. 

FG] in a diamond Cal. 

No Mark 


1 Ct.n Boor. 

8 Ctns. jiersonal effects. 

2 C/h * UHO ‘‘‘bell. 

1 Drum cocoanul oil 

1 * C/s Nit i*o Cellulose sheet. 

2 Hags rubber. 

1 Hale rubber. 

1 Crate metal polish. 


Unconnected packages. 

No Mark 
Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. . . 


500 C/h m/dise. 

1500 Hrtgs in /disc. 

1000 Pkgs. m/dme. 

. . A qty. of bundle wire. 

A qty. of mac hv. parts. 

A qty. of m of Iron. 


(A. P. McMAHON), 

Port Commissioners. Traffic Manager, 


l)al< * ri ifith February 196$ 


(125 -1) 



^toured A to. C207 


(Ealrutta 






PHALGUNA 10 ] 


THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 1W2 


L SAKA 1883 


>ART IA — Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India; and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 
and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India” are only 
republished* 


THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS OF INDIA 
New Delhi-1, the 6th June 1961. 


No. 8-C A( 1 ) / 6 / 6 i -62. — In pursuance of clause (3) 
f Regulation 10 of the Chartered Accountants 
filiations, 1949, it is hereby notified that the 


wrial Momberthip 
No. N«». 

1 f)0)4 


Ybiiio wild nddr*«M. 


Certificates ol Practice issued to the following 
members shall stand cancelled during the period 
shown against their names, namely: — 

Period during »hhli the ( VrtilicutoH ahull 
HtiUid cancelled. 


5018 


.Shri Allndi Suln .un. A. A., fit*, Ballygunj Gordon*, Gal- Int June i 5*01 to 34 m li Juno 1 UttJ . 
euttn- ill. 

Shri V. P. Aghoram Ai\io A A., 136-B, Raah Behari Avenue, 20th 1001 t«« 30th Juno 1001. 
Gtilctiiia 20. 


E. V. SRINIVASAN, Secretary. 


New Delhi- 1, the 25th April 1961. 


No. 8-CA(l ) / 2 / 61 -62. -In pursuance ol clause (1) 
1 Regulation 10 of the Chartered Accountants 
filiations, 1949, it is hereby notified that the 

wial MiirahortUiip Nhiimi him! 

SV Nu. 


Certificates ol Practice issued to the following 
members shall stand cancelled during the period 
shown against their names, namely: * 

Period during which iho ( '« rtifirates tthall 

Htuild Clllnr I ici I . 


1 1607 Shri Kunii BikiiH Dnltii. \.C. A. 3l» 1 . Jatin Daw Knud, Oaleuttu-29 lnt April 1961 to 3()th Jiii.c 1061. 

2 3096 Sliri Mandalikn Srinivasa Kno. A. C.A.. Mamin’ Omommant Oflicern’ tut April 1061 to 80th Juno 1961. 

Golony, Mushirnlmd V. (». Hyderabad. 

3 5267 Shri Shaahikant Trimhnk Modak. A. G. A., 50 bong re Bnug, 20tli March 1961 to 30l.li June 196J. 

Bhawanifthanker Koad, badar, Bombay -2 8. 


E. V. SRINIVASAN, Secretary. 


18 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 1, 1962 



New Delhi-1, the 23rd June 1961. 

No. 8-CA(l)/8/61-62. -In pursuance of clause (3) 
of Regulation 10 of the Chartered Accountants 


Regulations, 1949, it is hereby notified that a, 
Certificates of Practice issued to the follow' 
members shall stand cancelled during the pen 
shown against their names, namely: — 01 


Serial Membership 
No. No. 


Nttiuo and address. 


Period during which the Cerlifi, 


stand cancelled . 


H „| 


4374 Shri Siavax Ardewliir Kiuor, A. C. A., 15-17, Mangalore Street, 8tli June 1961 to 30th June 
Ballard Estate, Fort, Bombay. 

5320 Shri Gopaljao Jaiswal, A. ('. A., Junior Assistant Accounts Officer, 7th June 1961 to 30th June 1961. 
Tata Engineering and Locomotive Co. Ltd., Jamshedpur-4. 


B. R. MALHOTRA, Acting Secretai 


New Delhi-1, the 1st June 1961. 

No. 4-CA(l ) / 5 / 61 -62. — In pursuance of Regula- 
tion 12 of the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 
1949, it is hereby notified that in exercise of the 
powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (1) of 
section 20 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949, 
the Council of the Institute of Chartered Account- 
ants of India has removed from the Register of 
Members, with effect from the 13th day of May 
1961, on account of death the name of Shri Thomas 
Orr Miller, 16 Strand Road, Calcutta- 1 (Membership 
No. 1426). 

E. V. SRIN1VASAN, Secretary. 


New Delhi-1, the 23rd August 1961. 

No. 5-CA(l )/4 61-62. With reference to this 
Institute’s notification No. 4-CA( 1)1 3/ *59-60, dated 
the 27th November 1939, it is hereby notified in 
pursuance of Regulation 14 ol the Chartered 
Accountants Regulations, 1949, that in exercise of 
the powers conferred by Regulation 13 of the said 
Regulations, the Council of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India has restored to the 
Register of Members, with effect from the 11th day 
of August 1961, the name of Shri Ranwari Lai 
Mathur, A.C.A., 537 Raja Basanta Roy Road, 
Calcutta-29 (Membership No. 3796). 


E. V. SR1NIVASAN, Secretary. 


New Delhi- 1, the 9th May 1961. 

No. 5-CA(l)/l / 1961 -62. With relerence to this 
Institute’s notification No. 4-CA( I )/ 13/59-60, dated 
the 27th November 1959, it is hereby notified in 
pursuance of Regulation 14 of the Chartered 
Accountants Regulations. 1949, that in exercise of 
the powers conferred by Regulation 1 3 of the said 
Regulations, the Council of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India has restored to the 
Register of Members, with effect from the 27th day 


of April 1961, the name of Shri S. Viswanathan 
A.C.A., C/o. Mr. G. M. Rama Rao, A.C.A., 6-1 
Sebak Baidya Street, Calcutta-29 (Membershii 
No. 3331). 1 


E. V. SRIN1VASAN, Secretary 


New Delhi- 1, the 9th October 1961. 

NOTIFICATION 

No. 8-CA(l)/ 10/6 1-62. In pursuance of clause 
(3) ol regulation 10 of the Chartered Accountant! 
Regulations, 1949, it is hereby notified that th< 
Certificate of Practice issued to Shri P. Padmanabhi 
Sarma, A.C.A., Executive Officer, the Bunk o 
Baroda Ltd., India Exchange, Calcutta-1, Member 
ship No. 5366, shall stand cancelled with effect from 
the 30th August 1961 io the 30th June 1962. 


E. V. SRINIVASAN, 
Secretary. 


New Delhi, the 2nd August 1961. 
NOTIFICATIONS 

No. 5-CA(l)/ 3/61 -62. — With reference to thin 
Institute’s notification No. 4-CA(l)/ 14/60-61, dated 
the 4th January 1961, it is hereby notified in 
pursuance of Regulation 14 of the Chartered 
Accountants Regulations, 1949, that in exercise ol 
the powers conferred by Regulation 13 of the said 
Regulations, the Council of the Institute ol 
Chartered Accountants of India has restored to the 
Register of Members, with effect from the 24th dav 
of July 1961, the name of Shri Chittur Sivaramaier 
Hariharan, A.C.A., 56A Lake View Road, 

Calcutta-29 (Membership No. 2402). 


E. V. SRINIVASAN, Secretary. 


p A RT IA] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE MARCH 1, 1962 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the SOth November 1061 

N«. 28/9/81 -AI8<I) -The services of the following Indian Police Service probationers 
who were appointed on the results of the Combined Competitive Examination held in 1959 
have been placed at the disposal of the State Government with effect from the dates as 
shown below : — 

Serial Name State Date 

No. 


1. 

Shri Gopalan Sundarum 

.. A ml hr a Pradesh .. 

27-10.61 

F.N. 

2. 

Shri Benoy Kumar Mishia 

. . Assam 

27-10-61 

M 

3. 

Shri S. V. S u bra in an i an 

. . Assam 

27-10 61 

„ 

4. 

Shri Man Mohan Sadan&h 

Assuan 

27-10.61 

• 1 

5. 

Shri Sudliir Kumar Jha 

. . Bihar 

27-10-6] 

f» 

6. 

Shri Vijay Pal Jain 

Bihar 

27-10-6] 

M 

7. 

Shri Dinesh Nandan Sahaya 

. . Bihar . . 

27*10-6,1 

99 

8. 

Shri Bhagwant Singh Nimla 

. . Gujarat 

27 JO-01 

99 

9. 

Shri Gut chat an Singh Musafir 

.. Gujuiat 

27-10 64 

»> 

10. 

Shri Haj Kumar Haaisht 

. . Gujarat 

27 10-61 

• • 

11. 

Shri HakUanchat Jayarain Padikkal 

. . Kerala 

27-10-01 

»» 

12. 

Shri JuLondra Naiain Sakssna 

. . Madhya Pradoah , . 

27- 10 61 

M 

13. 

Shri Surendra Singh 

Madhya Pradesh . . 

27-10-6] 

99 

14. 

Shri Baldev Raj Luthift 

. . Madhya Pradesh . . 

27-1(1 61 

*9 

15. 

Shri Days Kishore Arya 

. . Madhya Pradesh . . 

27-10-61 

99 

16. 

Shri Shailandra Nath Misra 

. . Madhya Pradosh . . 

21-10- 64 

A.N. 

17. 

Shri Jagdish Narain Roy 

Madhya Pradesh . . 

27-10-01 

F.N. 

18. 

Shri Swarnabliadran Sripal 

Madras 

27-10-61 

» * 

19. 

Shri Surindai Kumar Seth 

Maharashtra 

27-10-64 

M 

20. 

Shri Mohan Wadhwa 

Maharashtra 

27-10-6] 

M 

21. 

Shri Prafulla Kumar Kanungo 

Maharashtra 

2 7 -|1 0*61 

99 

22. 

Sbri Kalian Padmanabban 

Maharashtia 

27.10.61 

99 

23. 

Shri Ram Sarup Chopra 

. . Mysore 

27.10-61 

99 

24. 

Shri Rfvmalinga Ramalingam 

. . Mysore 

27-10-61 

99 

25. 

Shri Kalyan Kumar Mitra 

Orissa 

27-10-6] 

99 

26. 

Shri Chimney Chakraburty 

Orissa 

27-10-61 

99 

27. 

Shri Prafulla Kumar Mishr/t 

. . Orissa 

27-10-61 

99 

28. 

Shri Sankar Sen 

Orissa 

27-1 0-01 

99 

29. 

Shri Mohammed Fetla ItaBool 

Orissa 

27-10-61 

99 

30. 

Shri Kalyan Rudru 

Punjab 

27-10-01 

99 

31. 

Shri Rattan La 11 

. . Punjab 

27-10-61 

99 

32. 

Shri Dinesh Chandra Pathak 

. . Rajasthan 

21-10-151 A.N. 

33. 

Shri Phool Singh Yadav 

. . Rajasthan 

27*10-61 

F.N. 

34. 

Shri Satya Deo Trivedi 

. . Uttar Pradesh 

27-10-61 

M 

35. 

Shri Hari Dev Pillai 

. . Uttar Pradesh 

27-10-61 

99 

36. 

Shri Hal Krishan Chaiulhary 

.. Uttar Pradesh 

27-10-61 

99 

37. 

Shri Arjunan Rajamohan 

.. Uttar Pradesh 

27-10-61 

99 

88. 

Sljri Ram A Hr ay 

. . Uttar Pradesh 

27-40-64 

99 

39. 

Shri Dbanoshchandra Nath 

. . West Bengal 

27-10-61 

99 

40. 

Shri SubhaMh Chaudei GoHHuin 

. . West, Bengal 

27-10-61 

99 

41. 

Shri Biiondra Kumar Suha 

. . West Hangal 

27-10-61 


42. 

Shri Pranab Prasannu Bis\*us 

. . West Bengal 

27.10-61 

99 

43. 

Shii Binayak Bhattucharji 

. . West Bengal 

27-10-61 

99 



B. N. TANDON, 

Dy. Secy. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 1, 1462 




MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

NOTIFICATIONS 

New Delhi, the 28th December 1961 

G.S.R. 7.— In pursuance of rule 7 of the Indian 
Administrative Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1954, 
the Central Government, in consultation with the 
State Governments and the Union Public Service 
Commission, hereby makes the following regulations 
further to amend the Indian Administrative Service 
(Appointment by Competitive Examination) Regula- 
tions, 1955, namely:— 

1. These regulations may be called the Indian 
Administrative Service (Appointment by Competitive 
Examination) Amendment Regulations, 1961. 

2. In the Indian Administrative Service (Appoint- 
ment by Competitive Examination) Regulations 1955, 
— below sub-regulation (i) of Regulation 4, insert the 
following proviso: 

“Provided that until the State of Pondicherry 
becomes part of India, a person born or 
resident in that State in whose favour a 
certificate of eligibility has been issued by the 
Government of India shall also be eligible to 
compete at the examination.” 

[No. 20/ 17/61 -AIS(I).] 

G.S.R. 8. — In pursuance of rule 7 of the Indian 
Police Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1954, the 
Central Government, in consultation with the State 
Governments and the Union Public Service Com- 
mission, hereby makes the following regulations 
further to amend the Indian Police Service (Appoint- 
ment by Competitive Examination) Regulations, 1955, 
namely: — 

1. These regulations may be called the Indian 
Police Service (Appointment by Competitive 
Examination) Amendment Regulations, 1961. 

2. In the Indian Police Service (Appointment by 
Competitive Examination) Regulations, 1955,- -below 
sub-regulation (i) of regulation 4, insert the follow- 
ing proviso: 

“Provided that until the State of Pondicherry 
becomes part of India, a person born or 
resident in that State in whose favour a 
certificate of eligibility has been issued by the 
Government of India shall also be eligible to 
compete at the examination.” 

[No. 20/ 17/61 -AIS(I).] 

« 

G.S.R. 9. -In exercise ol the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of section 3 of the All India Services 
Act, 1951 (61 of 1951) the Central Government, 

after consultation with the State Governments and 
the Union Public Service Commission, hereby makes 
the following rules further to amend the Indian 
Police Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1954, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Indian Police 
Service (Recruitment) Amendment Rules, 1961. 

2. In the Indian Police Service (Recruitment) 
Rules, 1954 — 

(i) below sub-rule (1) of rule 5, insert the 

following proviso: 


“Provided that until the State of Pondicherry 
becomes part of India, a person born or 
resident in that State in whose favour a 
certificate of eligibility has been issued by 
the Government of India shall also be 
qualified for appointment to the Service.” 

(ii) in the existing proviso below sub-rule (1) 0 f 
rule 5, add the word ‘further’ in the open- 
ing line after the word ‘Provided’. 

[No. 20/17/61-AlSU).] 

G.S.R. 10. — In exercise of the powers conferred bv 
sub-section (1) of section 3 of the All India Services 
Act, 1951 (6i of 1951), the Central Government, 
after consultation with the State Governments and 
the Union Public Service Commission, hereby makes 
the following rules further to amend the Indian 
Administrative Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1954, 
namely: - 

1. These rules may be called the Indian 
Administrative Service (Recruitment) Amendment 
Rules, 1961. 

2. In the Indian Administrative Service (Recruit, 
ment) Rules, 1954— 

(i) below sub-rule (1) of rule 5, insert the 

following proviso: 

“Provided that until the State of Pondichcrrv 
becomes part of India, a person born or 
resident in that State in whose favour a 
certificate of eligibility has been issued bv 
the Government of India shall also be 
qualified for appointment to the Service.” 

(ii) in the existing proviso below sub-rule (1) of 

rule 5, add the word ‘further’ in the open- 
ing line after the word ‘Provided’. 

[No. 20/17/61-AISO).] 
B. N. TANDON, Dy. Secy. 

New Delhi, the 5th January 1962 

G.S.R. 47. -In pursuance of sub-rule (1), and the 
first proviso to sub-rule (2) of rule 4, of the Indian 
Police Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, the Central 
Government, in consultation with the Government 
of West Bengal hereby make the follow- 
ing further amendments in the Indian 
Police Service (Fixation of Cadre Strength), Regula- 
tions, 1955. 

Amendments 

In the Schedule to the said Regulations, under 
West Bengal, the following entries shall be substi- 
tuted: — 

Senior posts under State Government ... 63 
Inspector General of Police ... 1 

Commissioner of Police ••• 1 

Deputy Inspectors General of Police ... 4 

Deputy Inspector General of Police 
C.I.D. and I.B. ••• 1 

Deputy Inspector General of Police, 
Traffic ••• * 

Deputy Commissioners of Police ... 1* 


Pa#t 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 1, 1962 


21 


Assistant, Inspectors General of 


Police 1 

Special Superintendents of Police ... 5 

Superintendents of Police ... 15 

Additional Superintendents of Police ... 11 

Superintendents of Police, Railway ... 2 

Principal, Police Training College ... 1 

Commandant, Eastern Frontier 
Rifles ... 1 

Commandants, Special Armed Police 
Battalions ... 3 

Commandant, Industrial Area Reserve 
Force • 1 

63 

2. Senior postwS under Central Govern- 
ment 19 


82 


3. Posts to be filled by promotion in 


accordance with rule 9 of the IPS 
(Recruitment) Rules, 1954 20 

4. Posts to be filled by direct recruit- 

ment .. 62 

5. Deputation Reserve @ 15 per cent of 

4 above ... 9 

6. Leave Reserve (a) 1 1 per cent .of 4 

above . 7 

7. junior Posts (a> 20.60 per cent of 4 

above ... 13 

p. Training Reserve ((0 10.59 per cent, of 

4 above ... 7 

Direct Recruitment Posts ... 98 

Promotion Posts ... 20 

TOTAL AUTHORISED STRENGTH ... 118” 


| No. 7/21 /61-AISO). | 
B. N. TANDON, Dy. Secy 


New Delhi, the 12th January 1962 

G.S.R. 76.- -In exercise of the powers conferred 
v sub-section (I) of section 3 of the All India 
ervices Act, 1951 (61 of 1951), the Central Govern- 
ment, after consultation with the Governments of 
he States concerned, hereby makes the following 
ules to further amend the Indian Police Service 
Probation) Rules, 1954, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Indian Police 
►erviec (Probation) Amendment Rules, 1962. 

2* In the Indian Police Service (Probation) Rules, 
954 — 

H) for rule 2, the following rule shall be substi- 
tuted, namely: — 

“2. Definitions. — In these rules, unless the con- 
text otherwise requires, — 

(a) ‘Academy’ means the National Academy 
of Administration, Mussoorie; 


(b) ‘Commandant’ means the Commandant of 

the Training College; 

(c) ‘Commission’ means the Union Public 

Service Commission; 

(d) ‘Director’ means the Director of the 

Academy; 

(e) ‘Probationer’ means a person appointed to 

the Service on probation; 

(t) ‘Period of Probation’ in relation to a proba- 
tioner means the period of probation 
specified in rule 3; 

(g) ‘Schedule’ means a Schedule appended to 
these rules; 

ih) ‘Service’ means the Indian Police Service; 

(i) ‘State Governments concerned’ in relation 

to a joint cadre, means the Govern- 
ments of all the States for which the 
Joint Cadre is constituted and includes 
the Government of a State nominated 
by all such Governments to represent 
them in relation to a particular matter; 
and 

(j) ‘Training College’ means the Central Police 

Training College, Abu. 

12) for rule 3, the following rule shall be substi- 
tuted, namely: — 

“3. Period of probation.— <1) Every person 
recruited to the Service in accordance 
with the Indian Police Service (Appoint- 
ment by Competitive Examination) Regu- 
lations, 1955, shall be appointed to the 
Service on probation for a period of two 
years. 

(2) Every person recruited to the Service in 

accordance with— 

(i) the Indian Police Service (Appointment by 

by Promotion) Regulations, 1955, or 

(ii) regulation 3 of the Indian Police Service 

(Special Recruitment) Regulations, 
1957, shall be appointed to the Service 
on probation for a period of one year: 

Provided that in the case of any person 
recruited to the Service in accordance 
with the Indian Police Service (Appoint- 
meni bv Promotion) Regulations 1955. 
any period for which he has been 
appointed to a cadre post, or to a post 
treated as equivalent to a cadre post, 
shall be counted towards the period of 
probation if so recommended by the 
State Government: 

Provided further that the Central Government 
may, in exceptional circumstances of 
any case, after consulting the Commis- 
sion, reduce the period of probation. 

(3) The Central Government may if it so thinks 

fit in any case or class of cases extend the 
period of probation in consultation with 
the Commission. 

(4) Jn this rule, ‘Cadre post’ has the same mean- 

ing as in clause (b) of rule 2 of the Indian 
Police Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954.”; 



22 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH I; 1962 


after rule 3, the following rule shall be insert- 
ed, namely: — 

“JA. Confirmation. — Where a probationer has 
completed his period of probation to the 
satisfaction of the Central Government, 
he shall, subject to the other provisions 
of these rules, be confirmed in the Service 
at the end of his period of probation,” 

(4) to rule 4, the following proviso shall be added, 

namely: — 

“Provided that the provisions of this rule shall 
not apply to probationers appointed in 
accordance with regulation 3 of the 
Indian Police Service (Special Recruit- 
ment), Regulations, 1957 or the Indian 
Police Service (Appointment by Promo- 
tion) Regulations, 1955;” 

(5) for rule 5, the following rule shall be substi- 

tuted, namely: — 

* 4 5. Training. — (1) A probationer referred to in 
sub-rule (1) of rule 3 shall on appointment 
to the Service attend the Academy and 
undergo such training therein and for 
such period as the Central Government 
may direct. 

(2) On completion of the training at the 

Academy a probationer shall undergo 
such further training at the Training 
College and for such period as the Cen- 
tral Government may direct. 

(3) On completion of the training at the Train- 

ing College, a probationer shall undergo 
such further training in the State to 
which he is posted and for such period as 
the Central Government may, in consulta- 
tion with the State Government concern- 
ed, direct;” 

(6) for rule 6, the following rule shall be substi- 

tuted, namely: — 

“6. Attendance at lectures, etc. — (1) A proba- 
tioner referred to in sub-rule (1 ) of rule 1 
shall attend such lectures and undergo 
such tests and exercises as may be pres- 
cribed from time to time. 

(2) At the end of the period of training in th< % 

Training College, the Commandant, taking 
into account such assessment as may be 
made bv the Director of each probation- 
ers record in the Academy, shall also 
assess the record in the Training College 

, of such probationer by awarding him such 
number of marks out of a maximum of 
100 marks as he may, in each case think 
fit. 

(3) At the end of the period of training in the 

State, the State Government concerned 
shall assess the record of the probationer 
during the period of training undergone 
fn the State and forward it to the Central 
Government;” 

(7) for sub-rule (1) of rule 7, the following sub- 

rule shall be substituted namely:— 

“(1) A probationer referred to in sub-rule (1) of 
rule 3 shall at or about the end of the 


[Parti* 


period of training in the Training Colley 
appear at a final examination to be con 
ducted by the Commission;” 

(8) in rule 10, in sub-rule (1) in clause (b) for the 

words “Training College” the words “^ e 
Academy and the Training College” shall be 
substituted; 

(9) for sub-rule (1) of rule 11, the following ^ 

rule shall be substituted, namely:— 

“(l) Every probationer referred to in sub-rule 
(1) of rule 3 shall be under the discipb. 
nary control of the Director while under* 
going training in the Academy and of the 
Commandant while undergoing training 
in the Training College and under the di* 
eiplinary control of the State Government 
while undergoing training in the State and 
shall obey such general or special orders 
as may be communicated to him bv the 
Director, Commandant or the State Gov* 
ernment from time to time;” 

(10) in rule 12 , — 

(a) after the words “discharged from the 
Service”, the words “or as the case mav 
be, reverted to his post in the State Ser- 
vice from which he was recruited” shall 
be inserted; 

lb) after clause (b), the following clause shall be 
inserted, namely: — 

“(bb) if he is found lacking in qualities of 
mind and character needed for me 
Service or in the constructive outlook 
and human sympathy needed in the 
public service generally;” 

(11) for rule 1 3, the following rule shali be sun-! 
stituted, namely: — 

“13. Salary during the period of probation.- 
(1) A person referred to in sub-rule 111 
of rule 3 shall receive salary in the lowest 
stage of the junior time scale applicable 
to the Service during the first year and 
at the second stage of that scale during 
the remaining period of piobation. 

(2) A person referred to in clause (ii) of sub rule 
t2) ol rule 3 shall receive salary m thej 
stage, fixed for him, of the junior or seiv r | 
scale as the case may be, and also dr 
increments which may be due to him 

(1) A person referred to in clause (i) d sub 
rule (2) of rule 3 shall receive salar\ n 
the stage fixed for him in the senior scab 
in accordance with rule 4 of the Indi.it 
Police Service (Pay) Rules, 1954, and alst 
draw increments which may be due to 
him. 

Provided that a State Government shall sanctioi 
the grant of advance increments in the junior time 
scale of the Service in accordance with the p rmi 
sions of rule 7 of the Indian Police Service (Pm 
R ules, 1954, to a person referred to in sub-rule n 
of rule (3), if after joining duty in a State on com 
pletion of training at the Training College, ^ n j 
during the probationary period, he qualifies at sun 
departmental examinations with suen standard 0 
proficiency as may from time to time be specified nj 
the State Government”. _ /nl 

[No. ll/2/60-AlS(W 




THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. MARCH 1, 1962 


23 


G.S.R- 77.- In pursuance of rule 11 of the Indian 
Administrative Service (Pay) Rules, 1954, the Cen- 
tral Government, after consultation with the Gov- 
ernment of West Bengal, hereby makes the following 
amendments in Schedule III appended to the said 
rules. 

2. These amendments shall be deemed to have 
co me into force with effect from 5th October 1961. 


Amendments 

In the said Schedule, 

(1) Under the heading "A-Posts carrying pay 
above the time-scale pay in the Indian 
Administrative Service under the State 


Governments”, against ‘West Bengal’ the 
following entries shall be added: - 

'Transport Commissioner and Ex-officio 
Secretary ... 2150 

Additional Secretary, Finance Depart- 
ment ... 2150’ 

(2) under the heading “B-Posts carrying pay in 
the senior time-scale of the Indian Adminis- 
trative Service under the State Govern- 
ments including posts carrying special pays 
in addition to pay in the time-scale”, against 
‘West Bengal’ following entry shall be 
added: — 

Director of Panchayats’. 

[No. 1/1 34/61 -AIS(II)]. 

C. R. NAIR, Under Secy. 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
Ministry of Health 


New Delhi, dated the 5th September, 1901. 
NOTIFICATION 

G.N.If. 1144.— In exercise of the powers cun ten rd by sub-section (‘2) 
of serf ion 4 and sub-section (1) of section 24 of I Ik* Prevention of Food 
Adulteration Act, 1954 (47 of 1954), the Cent ml Government after con- 
sultation with the Central Committee for Food Standards, hereby makes the 
following niles further to amend the Prevention ot Food Adulteration 
Pules, 1955, the same having- been previously published as required by sub- 
section (1) of section 24 of the said Act, namely: — 

1. (1) These rules may be called the Prevention of Food Adulteration 
(Second Amendment) Pules, 19(11. 

(2) They shall come into force on the first day of October, 1901. 

2. In the Prevention of Food Adulteration Pules, 1955 (hereinafter 
referred to as the said rules), after rule 44-A, the following* rule shall be 
inserted, namely: — 

“41-11. Restriction on sale of yhcc having less l\ei<Ju'rt ralue than 
that sftcei fieri f (tr the area irhe re such ghee is sold. — (1) The ghee having 
less Pcichert value and a different standard tor llutyro-refractometer 
reading at 40°C than that specified foi the area in which it is imported for 
sale or storage shall not be sold or stored in that area except under the 
‘AGA1APK’ seal: 

Provided that such ghee niav be (i) sold loose, after opening the 
‘AO MARK’ sealed container, in quantities not exceeding 2 kilograms at a 
time and (ii) used in the preparation of confectionery (including sweet- 
meats) ; 

(2) A person selling (i) such ghee in the manner specified in sub- 
rule (1) and (ii) confectionery (including sweetmeats) in the preparation 
ot which such ghee is used, shall give a declaration in Form Vl-Tl, to the 
Food Inspector when a sample thereof is taken by him for analysis undci 
section 10 of the Act and also to a purchase! desiring to have the sample 
analysed under section 12 of the ,Aet; 

(4) If on analysis such sample is found to be conforming to flu* 
standards of quality prescribed for the area where it is alleged to have 
been produced, the ghee shall not be deemed to be adulterated by reason 
only that it does not conform to the standard of quality prescribed for tin* 
area where it is sold.” 



u 


TEE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 1, 1962 




3. In Appendix ‘A' of the said rule#, after Form VI-A, the following 
Form shall be inserted namely: — 


“Form Vl-B 

(See rule 44-B) 

Declaration 


I /We on behalf of 


solemnly declare that the ghee sold by me /ns/ on 

behalf of /ghee used by me /us /on behalf of 


in the preparation of 


/Confectionery (including sweetmeats) is/ was from a tin containing ghee 

of origin and having ‘AGMAltK* seal. 

The said tin pertains to batch number and was purchased 

by me /us on behalf of 

from Shri /Shr im ati /K urn a ri / Messrs 


on the as per invoice /cash /credit memo. 

.No * , dated 


Signatv re of t radc r j t rollers . 


Date. 

Place 


4. in appendix B of the said rules, for item A. 11.14, the following 
item shall be substituted, namely: — 

“A. 11.14. Ghee means the pure clarified fat derived solely from milli 
or from curd or from deshi (cooking) butter or from eream to which no 
colouring matter or preservative has been added. The standard of quality 
of ghee produced in a State or Union territory specified in column 3 of the 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 1, 1962 


25 


table below shall be as specified against the said State or Union territory 
in the corresponding columns 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the said table. 


Nanw of Statu /Union 
territory 


THE TABLE 

Percentage of 

/ * •“*- - *• — \ 

Hutyro refracto- Minimum Free Jetty Moisture 
meter reading at Reichert acid as maximum 
40° C value oleic acid limit. 

max. limit. 


1 2 

3 


4 

5 

6 

(1) Andhra Pradesh 

40 0 to 43-0 

.. 

24 

3*0 

0*3 

(2) Assam 

40 0 to 43 0 

• • 

26 

3-0 

0*3 

(3) Hihar . . «. 

40- 0 to 43 0 


28 

3-0 


(4) Delhi 

(5) Gujrat — 

40*0 to 43*0 


28 

3*0 

0*3 

(a) Area* other than the erstw hilt' 
States of Kaurashlra and 
Kutch. 

40 0 to 43-0 

" 

26 

3*0 

0*3 

(b) Territories of erstwhile States 
of Saurashtra and Kutch. 

41 0 to 46 - 0 

•• 

21 

3-0 

0*3 

(6) Himachal Prados h .. 

40-0 to 43 0 


26 

3*0 

0*3 

(7) Kerala 

(S) Madhya Pradesh- 

40-0 to 43 0 


26 

3-0 

0*3 

(a) Areas other than the erstwhile 
States of Bhopal, Vindh.va 
Pradesh and Cotton tract 
areas. 

40-0 to 43 0 


20 

3-0 

0*3 

(h) Territories of the erstwhile 
States of Bhopal and Vindhya 
Pradesh. 

40-0 to 43 0 


28 

30 

0*3 

(c) Cotton tract- areas .. .. 

41-0 to 45-0 


21 

3*0 

0*3 

(9) Madntb 

40-0 to 43 0 


26 

3-0 

0*3 

(10) Manipur 

40 0 to 43-0 


26 

30 

0*3 

(11) Mysore 

(12) Maharashtra — • 

40 0 to 43-0 


26 

3*0 

0*3 

(a) Cotton tract area 

41-5 to 45 0 


21 

30 

0*3 

(b) Other areas 

40*0 to 43*0 


26 

30 

0*3 

(13) Orissa 

(14) Punjab— 

40 *0 to 43*0 


26 

3*0 

(>•3 

(a) Areas other than Mahondragarh 

40 • 0 to 43 • 0 


28 

3-0 

0*3 

(b) Mahondragarh 

(15) Raj as than— 

40*0 t-o 43 0 


26 

3*0 

0*3 

(a) Areas other than Jodhpur Divi- 
sion. 

40*0 to 43*0 


26 

3-0 

0-3 

(b) Jodhpur Division .. 

41*5 to 45*0 


21 

3*0 

0*3 

(1G) Tripura 

40*0 to 43*0 


26 

3*0 

0*3 

(17) Uttar Pradesh 

(18) West Bengal — 

40-0 to 43 0 


28 

3-0 

0*3 

(a) Area* other than Bishnupur 
subdivision. 

40*0 to 43 0 


28 

3*0 

0*3 

(b) Bishnupur subdivision 

Baudouin test shall he negative. 

41*5 to 45 *0 


21 

3*0 

0*3 

E.rnlaiiMiou : Bv cotton tract is meant 

the 

ureas in ill 

e Stotes 

whei 

cotton seed is extensively led to 

tbe cuttle 

und 

so notifle< 

1 by the 

Si a' 


Government concerned. 


KRISHNA BIIIARI, Uy. Secy. 


Til H CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 1, 1962 


[Part 14 


2(1 

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
Ministry of Health 

New Dolin', the 24th October 1961. 

NOTIFICATION 

(i.S.H. I -MO. — In oNorciM* of i lit* powers conferred by sub-section (2) of 
MM lion 4 end sub-section (1; nl soot ion 23 of the Prevention of Food 
Adulteration AH, 1934 (37 of 1934), the Central Govern ment after consulta- 
tion with the Cent nil Committee for Food Standards, hereby makes the 
following rules fuitbei to amend the Prevention of Food Adulteration Rules, 

1 953 1 the same having been previously published .as required by sub- 
mm lion (1> ol sect ion 23 of the said Act, namely: — 

1. These lilies may be called the Prevention of Food Adulteration 
(Third Amendment) Rules. 1961. 

2. In 1 he Prevention oi Food Adulteration Rules, 1953 (hereinafter 
referred to as the said rules; — 

(1) tor rule 22, the following rule shall be substituted, namely: — 


• 

“22. Quant ilt/ nf s nun pi v 
quantity of simple 
or Director for anal 

In be sent to the. public analyst . — The 
of food to be sent to the Public Analyst 
Vsis shall he as specified below: — 

• 

Artielo of 1 • M) f l 

Approximate quantity to 
l>o supplied. 

]. 

Milk 

200 ml. 

o 

( *hon 

130 prams. 

3. 

HuUcr 

130 prams. 

4. 

KllOM 

230 grams. 

3. 

Dwlii 

200 grams. 

o. 

Kdilde oils 

123 grams. 

7. 

Pdible fats 

J23 grams. 

8. 

Tea 

123 grams. 

!». 

At in 

200 grams. 

10. 

Whout flour 

200 grams. 

n. 

(lur 

200 grams. 

i ii. 

Cano sugar 

200 grams. 

13. 

HolU*' 

230 grains. 

14. 

Prepaid food 

300 grams. 

ir». 

Aerated water 

000 grams. 

16. 

Vauuspat i 

300 grams. 

17. 

Spiros 

130 grams. 

is. 

Knot and v e t -i table prod h<*Ih, jams joIIiph and the like 300 grams. 

10. 

Pulses, cereals and the like . . 

230 grams. 

20. 

(1) Asftfoetida . . 

100 grams. 


(2) Compounded auafootidn 

200 grams. 

21. 

Saffron 

15 grams. 

22 

lco*croam and mixed ico- cream 

200 grams. 

23. 

Poods ( not specified) 

200 grams.” 


(2) in rule 30, for the figure 
figures and words “0.2 

s and words “1.5 grains per pound”, the 
grams per kilogram” shall be substituted; 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 1, 1962 


V 


p.UtT IA] 


(3) in rule 32, (i) in the first proviso for the figure and abbreviation 

“2 oz.”, the figures and words “00 grams'’ shall be substituted; 
and (ii) in the second proviso for the figure and words “2 ounces” 
and “4 ounces” the figures and words “00 grams” and “120 
grams” shall respectively he substituted; 

(4) in rule 35, for the words “one sixteenth of an inch”, the figures 

and abbreviation “1.5 mm.”, shall be substituted; 

(5) in rule 30, for the words “one eighth of an inch” wherever they 

occur, the figure and abbreviation “3 mm.” shall be 
substituted ; 

(6) in rule 42(B) in clause (i), in each of the form of declarations (a) 


to (g) ior the brackets, letter and words “(x) pints of 

milk”, the brackets, letter and words “(x) litres of milk” 

shall he substituted; 


(7) in rule 44, in clause (a), foi the words “prepared from”, the woids 

“prepared exclusively from” shall be substituted; 

(8) in rule 50, in sub-rule (7), for the words “hydrogenated vegetable 

oils”, the word “vanaspati” shall be substituted; 

(9) in the Table under sub-rule (2) of rule 57 — 

(i) the entries under the heading “Arsenious Oxide /(As 3 0.,)” in 
column 3, against item 3 ‘^Arsenic” shall be omitted; 
i) in item 3, against entry “(iv) Foods not specified”, the figures 
“1.1” shall be inserted under the heading “Arsenic (AS)” in 
column 3; 

(10) in Appendix ‘A’ of the said rules, — 

(i) in Form 1, for the words “A fee of Tis has been deposited 

in Court”, the following paragraphs shall be substituted, 
namely : — f 

“2. A fee of 11 s. 40 has been deposited in the Court and the. 
treasury elm 11 an for the same is enclosed. 

3. A copy of the memorandum and the specimen impression of 
■ the seal used to seal the container' and the cover are sent 
separately by Registered Post.” 

(ii) in Form IT, after the heading “(Certificate of test or analysis 

by the Central Food Laboratory)”, the words and letters 
“Certificate No ” shall be inserted; 

(11) m Appendix ‘B’ of the said rules — 

(i) in item A. 05. 04, for tin* words “Powdered cinnamon”, the. word 
“Cinnamon” shall be substituted; 

(ii) in item A. 08. 01, in paragraph (5), (ii), for the words “the 
ash” the words “the soluble ash” shall be substituted; 

(iii) iu item A. l(i. 11, for the words “and permitted preservative”, 

the words “and may contain permitted preservatives” shall 
be substituted ; 

(iv) in item A. 18. 04, the following paragraph shall be* added at the 

end, namely: — 

“Besan shall conform to the following standards; 

(a) Total ash — Not moic than 5 per cent.. 

(b) Ash insoluble m J1C1 — Not more than 0.5 per cent..”; 

(v) in item A. 10 — 

(«) for the figures, letters and words “700 I. IT. of synthetic vitamin 
‘A’ per ounce”, the figures, letters and words “25 I. IT. of 
synthetic vitamin ‘A’ per gram” shall be substituted; 

(b) after entry (xi) the following entry shall be added at the end, 
namely : *— 

“(xii) No anti-oxidant, synergist, emulsifier or any other such 
substance shall he added to it except with the prior sanction 
of the Government.” 

[No. F. 14-36/01. | 
KRISHNA B1HARI, Dy. Secy. 


28 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 1 , 1962 


[Part i a 


GOVERNMENT OF UTTAR PRADESH 
Home Department (Police-B) 
NOTIFICATION / (MISCELLANEOUS) 

No. 4094-D/VIII-B-217-B/61.-22nd January 1%2. 

- In exercise of the powers conferred b ^ ec “ on 
nf the Code ol Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act V oi 
1898), the Governor of Uttar Pradesh is o 

declare the books in Hindi entitled ( 1 ) Sikh Mat 
Khandan” and (ii) “Bhoomika Nwam-Sikh Mat 
Khandan”, both written by Harnam Das ^ 
Harnam Singh of Gorakhpur, printed b Y Sumedh 
Kumar Gupta, at the Bhaskar Press, Dehra Dun, and 
published by Harnam Das Sarraf of Gorakhpur and 
every copy of the said books and all other documents 
containing copies, reprints and translates of o 
SU from the sa.d books forte, led » 
on the ground that certain portions of the aforesaid 
books “Sikh Mat Khandan” and “Bhoomika Nazam- 
Sikh Mat Khandan” as specified in the appendix c to 
this notification injure or attempt to mjure the r 
gious feelings of the Sikhs and insult or attempt to 

insult the Sikh religion and the P“ b * ,c “J 10 ^ e W fnJi an 
is punishable under section 295 A of the Indian 
Penal Code, whereas the matter contained in lines 
16 to 22 on page 7 of the book “Sikh Mat Khandan 
creates or attempts to create feelings of enmity and 
hatred between Arya Samaji and Sikh citizens of 
India and the publication whereof is punishable 
under section 153A of the Indian Penal Code. 

APPENDIX 


Book ‘Sikh Mat Khandan’ 

i. r»K e 

4 

2. Pftgo 

43 

3. Pago 

44 

4. Pago 

46 

5. Pago 

47 

Book ‘Bheemlka Nazam 8 

1. Pago 

1 

2. Page 

3 

3. Pago 

4 

4. Pag* 

5 

5. Page 

10 

6. Pago 

13 


Linee 


Couplets 


13-24 

12-19 

3-19 

12-17 

16-24 

3-10 

26-30 

31-36 

42-50 

91-100 

121-129 


By order, 

P. S. TANDON, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 
NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi, the 9th January 1962 

No. 21 /PA/62. To proceed on his leave-cwm- 
retirement Shri M. K. Kirpalani relinquished the 
charge of the post of Ambassador of India, Rio de 
Janeiro, on the forenoon of the 14th December, 1961 
and proceeded on refused leave. 


S. KOCHAR (Mrs), Under Secv. (PA). 


GOVERNMENT OF ASSAM 
Political (A) Department 
NOTIFICATION 

No. PL A. 1 5 / 60 / Pt. VII / 21 . — 18 th December 1961 
— Whereas the Governor of Assam is satisfied rhai 
the pamphlet entitled “Assam Desher Bengali Haty d , 
Kabita” (Poem on Killing of Bengalis in Assam) , r 
Bengali, written by Shri Satyendra Chandra Dei 
Nath of Odaypur, post office Bogram, district W cs 
Dinajpur, West Bengal, and printed at Jatin Dress 
Raygonj (West Bengal), contains matters whicl 
promote or are intended to promote feelings u 
enmity and hatred between different classes o 
citizens of India, viz., between the Assamese and thi 
Bengalees; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conlerrw 
by section 99A of the Code of Criminal Procedure 
1898 (Act V of 1898), the Governor of Assam i 
pleased to declare every copy of the aforesau 
pamphlet to be forfeited to Government. 

By order of the Governor, 

A. N. KIDWAI, Chief Secy. 


GOVERNMENT OF KERALA 
Home (D) Department 
NOTIFICATION 

G.O. (MS) No. 740.— 30th December 1961. 
Whereas the Government of Kerala are of opimor 
V after consultation with the Advocate-General, th< 
the Malayalam book entitled “Oru Pidi Choaru ' d 
P adiyath, published by Sree Narasimhavilasam Boo 
Depot, Thuravoor, Kerala, is a harmful public, 
tion within the meaning of section 2 of the min 
Persons (Harmful Publications) Act, 1956 (C enir. 
Act 93 of 1956), as it portrays certain incidents ol 
repulsive nature which would tend to corrupt your 
persons into whose hands it might fall, 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powei 
conferred by section 4 of the said Act the Goveri 
ment of Kerala hereby declare that every copy . 
the said book shall be forfeited to the Government 

By order of the Governor, 

P. I. JACOB, Secy 


Lilt of cancelled declaration forms under the Central Tax At 
1956 in different States. 


KERALA 


No. SR.KMO-43344/61. - 13th December 1961— I" J u 
suance of the provision,, j„ sub-rule (9) uodor rule 1 ‘ 

Central Sal.* Tax (Kerala) Rule, 195 .it w .not.lio.1 J I ^ 

information that the following declaration form ’ 

havobeon !<*t in transit and is invalid for ‘ho purpose ^ 
section (4) under section 8of the Contral Sales Tax *Vt, 

Date of Name and address of d 
issue. dealor to whom .s™ 1 " 1 

3-9- 1950 Shri M. Eama M 00 ^' 
Raddiar, J’ l ' rrt,a 
Quilon. 

C.S.T. Rogn. No. P’ 12, 
Sd. illegible, 


Serial No. of 
declaration form. 

E-2 16096 


Secy. (Taxed), 
Board of Revenue. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 1, 1962 


29 


>tRT 


BIHAR 

(ST 56/61.- Dooomlior 100].— In pursuance of 

visions of sub-rule 9 of rule 0 ol tho Central SaloH Tax 
*■’ 1 .) J’JiiK'h. 1957.it is notified for general information that tho 
I' i, T declaration forms in form ‘C’ have Ihmmi reported to 
1 '''hool) lost from the custody of tho dealer to whom tho forms 
U issued and aro declared invalid for tho purpose of sub- 
^ yi ( 4) of section 8 of tho Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 : — 

»il No. of the lost Name, address and Remarks. 

** la ratio n form. registration certificate 
J number of the dottier. 


(v L , n54f>3 to Messrs. L. N. Agrawal & Lost. 

(k-295475. Co., Sindri. Dhanbad. 

DH-506 (Central). 

M. ALAM, 

Commissioner of Commercial Taxes. 

ORISSA 

Dated Cuttack tho 4th January 1962. 
j, us notified for the information of dealers and all concerned 
ft t the following declaration forms in form ‘C* issuod under tho 
r jT rftl Sales Tax (R Sl T) Rules, 1957, have boon reported to 
j^on logt by the registered dealer of this State mentioned 
low to whom those wore issuod for use and, therefore, by 
tuo of the powers conferred under clause (i) of rule 6 of the 
mrtil Sales Tax (Orissa) Rules, 1957, framed under section 13 
[(„. ( ’mitral Sales Tax Act, 1956, 1, Shri S.M.H. Rurriev, I.A.N., 
nimissioner of Sales 'fax, Orissa, do hereby declare that tho 
laifthon forms mentioned below Hliall lie deemed to bo invalid 
tIu> purpose of sub-section (4) of soot ion 8 of tho Central 
,* r l ux Act, 1956:— 

, r u*l No. of the Nairn* and address of the Remarks. 
H-larntion forms dealer to whom tho forms 
!„, ricd to have wore issued. 

Imhiii lost. 

-1*44194 to Messrs. Ruwlam General Stores, Lost. 

d *>J420<). Brajarajnngar, Sambalpur, 

SAC— I 500. 

349635 to Messrs. P. L. Sethi, Rourkola Lost. 

H- 349650. VIA'.. 352. 

322 12s . . Messrs. Murahdhar Prakas Lost . 

Chandra, At/p.o. Jharsuguda, 

Samhaljmr, SACI/430. 

S. M. H. BURNEY, 
Commissioner, Sales 'fax. 

MANIPUR 

No Tii v/1 9-10/CST /LE/2/61 -62.— J )ecombor 1 96 1 

pursuance ol tho provisions of sub-rule (4) of the Central 
l*s lux (Manipur) Rules. 1957, road with sub-section (3) of 
: ,; io)i 9 of the Contra! Salt's Tax Act, 1956 if is notified for 
noiul information of the public and tho Authorities concerned 
Rl the Form ‘C’ of declaration bearing the number noted 
low hus been reported to bare been lost in postal transit from 
mhal to Calcutta and is invalid from tlie date noted aguirmt 
lor tho purpose of sub-section (4) of section 8 of the Central 
Iks Tux Act, 1956 

ht »il Serial Name and address Date Remarks, 

ki. No. of the of tho registration from 

declaration certificate Number which 

form of tho doaler to invalid, 

whom issued. 

1 28973 .. Sardar Automobile 7-1-61 Lost in 
Co.. Thangal transit* 

Bazar, Imphal. 

R. C. No. 

CST/M/2. 

S. GOSHWAMI, 

Commissioner of Taxes. 


ASSAM 

No. CN f -3/6 1 /1 8518. - Docemlx'r 1961.— In pursuance' 

of the provisions of sub-rules (9) and ( 10) of rule 8 of tho Centml 
Sakw Tax (Account and Procedure) Rules, 1957, read with sub- 
section (3) of siH-tion 13 of the ( Jon trill Sales Tax Act, 1956, it 
is notified for general information that the follow mg declaration 
forms are declared to l>o invalid for the purpose of sub-section 
(4) of section 8 of the Central Salex Tax Act, 1956, as the dealer 
has closed down his business without surrendering the declara- 
tion form and his w hereabout is not known : — 

Serial Name and address The date Remarks, 

number of of the* registered from 

declaration dealer to whom the which the 
form declared forms were issued. forms 
invalid. declared 

invalid. 

1 2 3 4 

B-447451 to Messrs. C. PuruHho 1-4-61 Tho business 

B-447475. ttomdos Patel closed down 

& Co., Dibrugarh. and whoroa- 

lx>ut of the 

doaler is not. 

known, 

R. Z. AHMED, 
Commissioner of Taxi's. 


No. CST-3/6I/I8536.— 12th December 1001 ]n porsuancoof 

the provisions of sub-rule (9) of rule 8 of the Central Sales Tax 
(Account and Procoduro) Rules, 1957, read with sub-section (3) 
of section 13 of Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, it is notified for 
general information that the following declaration forms are 
reported to have beon lost in transit by tho dealer are declared 
to be invalid for the purposo of Hub-section (4) of section 8 of 
Central Sales Tax Act , 1956 : — 

Serial Name and address The date Remarks. 

Number of of tho registrad from 

declaration dealer to whom tho which the 
forniH declared forms wore issued forms 
invalid declared 

invalid. 

B/O- 113947 Messrs. Lakhmichand 28-4-61 Lost in 
to B/O Amarclmnd, post - transit. 

113948. office, Titabar, 

Assam. 

R. Z. AHMED, 
Commissioner of Taxes. 

MADRAS 

In virtue of the powers conferred on mo by sub-rulo 9 undor 
rule 10 of the Central Safi's Tax (Madras) Kufi*s, 1967. 7, Shri 
(1. Kusi Raju, Commercial Tax Officer ( Administration) MiMurai, 
hereby declare that the declaration form of the following descrip- 
tion was lost in transit and is invalid lor the purpose of section 
8(4) of the Central SaloH Tax Act, 1956 

Description of Name and address of Lost in transit while 
tho *C* form. dealer to whom issued. it w-as sent to. 


J2. 996689 . . Messrs. M. V. M. Messrs. Standard 

Subramania Nadar Vacuum Oil Co., 

& Sons, Thirumanga- Madras, 
lam. 

ILLEGIBLE. 

Asst. Secretary, Commercial Taxes. 


30 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 1, 1962 


IParti a 


In virtu© of the power* conferred on me by sub-rule 9 under 
rule 10 of the Central Sale* Tax (Madras) Rules, 1957, I, Shri 
G. Kaai Raju, Commercial Tax Officer (Administration), Madurai, 
hereby declare that the declaration form of the following descrip- 
tion was lost in transit and it is invalid for the purpose of section 
8(4) of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 : — 


Description 
of ‘C* forms. 


Name and address of Lost in transit whilo 
the dealer to whom it was sent to the 
issued. other State. 


J/4/027860 


Messrs. Fenner Cockill 
Ltd., Madurai. 


The Indus Rubber 
Co., Calcutta. 


ILLEGIBLE. 

AHstt. Seoy., Commercial Tax. 


In is hereby notified to the general public that the decla r 
form with the descriptions noted bolow was lost by 
Bapanaiah & Co., Sydetihams Gardens, Madras- 7, during tr, * 
and, therefore, this declaration form has boon declared , U ? 
for the purpose of soction 8(4) of tho Central Sales Try a 
1950 :■ — 


Name and address of Details of tho 
the dealer. declaration 

form. 


Officer who 
issuod the 
book. 


To *hou 
issued 


Messrs. K. Bapanaiah .1. 501031 for D.O.T.O. 

& Co., Sydonhams Its. 12,449-75. rorambur 
Gardens, Madras- 7. Division. (j 

of 

Lhaii(j f , r 

Madia*' 

Braii.^h 


ILLEGIBLE. 

Superintendent, 


PUNJAB 


No. 207 ST.V. — 


Dated Patiala, the 5th January 1902. 

The following is the list of declarat ion forms in form *(” which have been lost fn the State : — 


Serial 

number 

Number of the ‘C, 
Forms 

To whom issued. 

By whom issued. 

Rcnmik 

1 

K/l/381109 to 

K/l/3811 10. 

.... 

Messrs. Dhewan Chand, Hal win, Kot- 
kapum, district Blmttinda. 

] .Ost . 

2 

K/O/O11051 to 
K/O/O11075. 

.... 

Sohan Lai Nand Kumar, Fatelmhnd 
district , B issar. 

Do. 

3 

K/l -303750 

Messrs. Chaju Ram Miatn, Marwnn, 
Agra. 

Messrs. Aggarwul Rice and FIouj 
M ills, Patiala. 

Do. 

4 

K-931004, K-931005, 
K-931074, K-931075 
and K-931083. 

Messrs. Ii. B. Seth Jeasa Ram Fatah 
Chand 100 Jamun Lai I’a/ar Street, 
Calcutta-7. 

Messrs. Sohan Singh, Bulwn.nl Singh, 
Jullundur City. 

Do. 

5 

K/0-90020 

Messrs. Naehdnvn Lock Company 
Delhi. 

Messrs. Tnlu Ram Tjrlok Clmnd of 
Iloshmrpur. 

Do. 

0 

K/O-94504 


Messrs. Shamlal Ram Nath Khanmi, 
district Ludhiana. 

Do 

7 

K/O-917451 


Messrs. Sohan Lai Hans Raj, Ludhiana 

Do 


MADRAS. 


Whereas it has been brought to my notice by the dealer in column 4 that the following declaral ion m form *('* boai tin nua 
noted in oolumn 2 issued to be dealer in column 3 under the (’mitral Sales Tax Act. 1950, lias been lost ,n tiaiihit. ii i-, lien In n< I 
for tho general information of public and the authorities concerned that-, with effect from the date noted in column 0 against lit. 
forma* declared as invalid for the purpose of sub-section 4 of section 8 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1950, and the Cent ml 
(Madras) Rules, 1957, made thereunder 


Serial 

No. 

Book No. and Form 
No. roported as lost. 

To whom issued. By whom lost or by whom 

issuod with registration No. 

Jurisdict ion 
of D.C.T.O. 

Wli'i 

)o-t 

1 

J/O-043794 

Shri Hindustan General Elecln- The Crompton Engineering Co. 
cal Corporation Ltd., Calcutta. (Madras) Ltd., 2nd Lin J teach, 

Madras. 

Assessment C. T. O. 
I.. North Madras. 

]') 4 1 

o 

J/3-000578 

Shri Krishna Electricals, Nellore, Ditto 

Ditto 

27-U 1 


ILLEGIBLE. 

Asst. Secy., Commercial b‘* ,s 



)> a rt JA] 


THE CALCUTTA CiAZETTE, MARCH 1, 1962 


31 


It is hereby notified for the information of all 
concerned that the ‘C declaration forms, under 
Central Sales Tax Act, containing *C forms J. 553776 
to 553785 (used) and J. 553786 to J. 553800 (unused) 
issued to Siiri D. Balasubramaniam, Proprietor of 
Sri Lakshmi Pharmacy, 15-A Car Street, Tripupa- 
puliyur, are reported to have been lost and that 
they are no longer valid lor the purpose of section 
8(4) of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956. The regis- 
tration number asigned to the dealer is 52. 


ILLEGIBLE, 

Assistant Secretary, 
Commercial Taxes. 



Registered No. C207 


No. 9 of 1962 


(Ealrutta 


3 % 



$3T*iasPlrl 



•HALUUNA 10 ] 


THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 1962 


l SAR A m-.i 


CONTENTS : 


Page. 

Calcutta Improvement Trunk Notices . . 77 78 


SUPPLEMENT — Official Paper* 


CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 


THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR THE 
IMPROVEMENT OF CALCUTTA 

soticc under section 43 of the Calcutta Improvement 
Act 1911 (Bengal Act V of 1911) 

Calcutta, the 31st January 1962 

SCHEME No. LXXXVI (KALIGHAT ROAD) 

It is notified undci section 43 of the Calcutta 
mpicncment Act, 1911, that a Street Scheme lor the 
urpoo o( improving means of communication and 
acihtu*s lor traffic, by winding a portion of Kalighat 
to be known as Scheme No. LXXXVI (Kalighat 
has been framed by the Board of Trustees for 
hi* Improvement of Calcutta in the above area within 
■'ards Nos. 67 nd 70 of the Corporation of Calcutta. 

, Hie boundary of the area comprised in the Scheme, 
" Knsn within red verge on plan is as follows: — 

On the North: Starting from the north-western 
‘‘’ mcr of premises No. 14/ 1A, Kedar Bose Lane, 
unmrig eastwards along the northern boundaries of 
[’ Nos. 14/1 A, Kedar Bose Lane and 21B 
^taram Bose Ghat Road to the north-eastern comer 
s[i l J lv> Hitter; from this point running eastwards in j 
^ t!!< ajd line to the north-western corner of premises 
i - -b, Kalighat Road; from this point running casi- 
ng ?. lon S the northern boundary of premises No. 

" • Kalighat Road to its north-eastern corner; from 


this point running eastwards for a distance of about 
22 leet along the northern boundary ot premises 
Nos. 144A and 144B, Ashutosh Mukherjee Road, to 
a pi i • n t where the above boundary line bends south- 
wards; from this point running eastwards in a 
straight line to the north-eastern corner of premises 
IN os. H4A and I44B, Ashutosh Mukherjee Road. 

On the East: From this point running south 
wards in a straight line to the north-eastern corner of 
('remises No. 4, Shyama Prnsad Mukherjee Road. 


On the South: From this point running south 
awards in a straight line to the south-eastern 
i orncr of premises No. 21, Kahghat Road, from this 
oo ; nt running westwards in a straight line to the 
^nth-western corner of premises No. 20, Kalighat 
Road. 


On the West: From this point running north 
wards in a straight line to the south-western corner 
o( piemises No. 21 A, Balaram Bose Ghat Road; from 
this point running along the western boundaries of 
piemises No. 21 A, Balaram Bose Ghat Road and 
14/1 A, Kedar Bose Lane to the starting point. 

'Hie particulars of the Scheme, a plan showing the 
Scheme area and a statement of the lands proposed 
lot acquisition and for levy of betterment fee mav be 
inspected at the office of the Trust at 10 Netaii 
Suhiias Road, Calcutta, between the hours 1 1 a.m. 
and 3 p.m. on week days and between hours 1 1 a.m. 
and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 



SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 1, 1964 




Copies will be available on payment of the follow- 
ing fees: — 

Rs. 

Particulars and other information of 
the scheme ••• 0.25 

Statement of land proposed for 
acquisition or for levy of betterment 
fee - 0.25 

Plan of the Scheme area ... 1.00 

Objections to the Scheme will be received up to 
12th May 1962. 

Under section 6A of the Land Acquisition Act, 
1894, as introduced by the schedule to the Calcutta 
Improvement Act, 1911, as amended by the West 
Bengal Act XXXII of 1955, the publication of this 
notice shall have the same effect as the publication 
of notification under section 4 of the Land Acquisi- 
tion Act 1894. 

K. SEN, 
Chairman. 


Calcutta, the 2nd February 1962 

Notice is hereby given under section 47(3) of t 
Calcutta Improvement Act, 1911, that the Board 
Trustees for the Improvement of Calcutta ha 
applied to the State Government for sanction 
Bustcc Rehousing Scheme No. VIII at 27 / 1A Alia 
Road and 19 and 19/1, Pitambar Ghatak La 
Chetla, which was first published in the “Calcu 
Gazette” and in local newspapers on the 20th J 
1961. 

K. SEN, 
Chairman. 

Dated the 2nd February 1962 

Notice is hereby given under section 47(3) of 
Calcutta Improvement Act, 1911, that the Board 
Trustees for the Improvement of Calcutta h; 
applied to the State Government for sanction to 
Improvement Scheme No. LXXX (Raja Naba Krisl 
.Street) which was first published in the “Calcu 
Gazette” and in local newspapers on the 17th Aug 
1961. 

K. SEN, 
Chairman. 


Pr atfU and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at the West Bengal Government Press, Alipore. 


Qtgisttred NO. U 2 U 7 





.flALtiUNA 17 J 


THURSDAY, MAIU'H S, 1902 


[SAKA 1883 


j ART IA — Orders and Notifications of the Government of India; Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India; and other Election Notifications published for general information, 
and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India" 
republished. 

js r OF LICKX'CKS LSSVKD VXDKK THK I NDILSTI* I KN (DEYFLorMEKT AND lilAA 1 ATlCX) /( r i 10.“>1 
\V F.K1\ KXDINC 23 HI) SFPTKMm.lt 1001. 

Scheduled Indent No. 12-2 : hand tools, small tools and the like 


\,mir ind full address of tin* undei taking 
(ami local ion) 


mi ili.liit.-d Pm-iimalie tool Co (India) 
1’nx.ih Ltd., < 'nil ill 1»l. (West Bengal). 


Articles ol manufaet m e and capacity (and 
type of licence, i.c . \ l T /S E/NA /( ’f )B / 
Slid t niff). 

Demolition 'Tool- SO Nos. p.a. on 
single shift. N.E. 


Orders 
2 only 

FOB r IM I K 

Licence munlicr and data. 

L/l2-2/:i0/MEI I til, I,)-!U1. 


hi ()F LICENCES ISSUED UNDER THK I X DUSTR I KS (DK VEL< )1*MENT AND PECULATION) At T, 10.7L- F()it TIIK 
WFFK ENDINO 2KTII OCTOBER P.I01. 


\ uni hid full address of t ho 1 1 n < 1« *i taking Ai tieles ol manufaet m e and capacity (and 

(and location' typo of licence, i.e., XU /SE/N \ /(JOB/ Licence number .ind date. 

Shift mg). 

Scheduled Indent No. 8(A/2) Jute Machinery 

>' . t.ii 1 1 1 1 1 j t Engineering Co. Ltd.. 3 Xetaji ‘ Keen’ eoplomlei s- -3000 Nos. p. a. on angle L/S/ \-2/l/0J-.\TEI . 7-10-01 
1 1 » 1 1 . » Road, t ’.limit I m. (West I’eiwal) shift (X. 


Scheduled Indent No. 9 Machine Tools 

Wesmau Engineering Co. (P) Ltd.. Pneumat c Moulding Machines- !M> Nos. L/0 /f>7 'M F I 0 1 . 3-10-01. 
• I L.irwdi CliandiM Avenue, t Jaleut tn- Ft, pci annum on single shift . (X. \.). 

(W'st 1 tcngii I ). 


Scheduled Indent No. 15(2) Industrial Instruments 

11 Conditioning Corporation Ltd., E-2 Fulscope 2430 Xos. L l\ 5(2) 12 /til /LJ J K .\ i. 2 I - I0-0J . 

djIlMiulor House, Nctaji Sublrns Hoad. Flcxotimer 270 Nos. 

t ’u U*ut i ii . (The production of tlic.sc msti unicnts will 

he phased as accepted hi firm’s I cj.tci 
No. DACC : It 7 111 /F. Taylor, dated the 
7th October, IfMil. (N U.). 


Scheduled Indent No. 19(2) Organic Heavy Chemicals 

‘ A Company, 10/1 Elgin Hoad, Pentnerythritol .7ft Puts p.rn. .. L/l !l(2)/l /( ’liV. /0 1 , 24- 1 u -n I. 

f l,( utln, (West Bengal). Hcmiiiiiik' .. .70 1 ons p.m . 


34 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 





LIST OF LICENGK.S ISSUED UNDER THE INDUSTRIES (DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) ACT. 1W51— FOh 
WEEK ENDING IHTH NOVEMBER HMil. J «l 


Name and full address of the undertaking Articles of manufacture and capacity (and 

(and location). type oflicence, i.e., NU/SJ2 / COB / Shifting). Licence number and date. 

Scheduled Indent No. 1A(7) -Other Products of Iron and Steel 

Rinum Pi oducts Ltd.. Bombay Mutual Tin cnntumeiH of 1 K O btie si/.c 10,44,000 L/l A ( 7 ) / 1 2/LFl(B)/til , 2- 1 1 -t,| 
Hull ding*. 9 Biaboiimo Hoad, Calcutta- 1, Nun. p.a. on single sluft. (N. A.). 

( West Bengal). 

Scheduled Indent No. 8B(11) -Power Driven Pumps 

Items of Manufacture. 

Tcealeiiut (India) Ltd., 4 Mahemlru t'lui- (i) Cai Hoists, Wheel Free, Air L/SB(1 l)/2/filFI(M), 1-1 1-4.1. 
ttorjee Lane. Hntally, Calcutta- 14, (West Compiessors, Car Washers. 

Bengal). 

(n) Ancillary Lijuijnncnt : 

(bant Pend i at ing Spiayer, Mobile (hi 
IMiverv I’liit, Washwuy Flooring, 
etc. 

(in) Lubrication Equipment for Industrial 

purposes : 

Automatic Lubrication system for oil. 

Lubrication system for oil, Teealenut 
Biontford, Radial Mcchumenl. 

Lubricators Springfee lubrieatois. 

Hand Humps, Crease ( bins. Loco. 

(iv) Standard Crease Nipples: 

Hydraulic type, r r«t type ( Brass). 

(\ ) Fittings for (.'lease & Oil llund duns. 

Hoses, ( < reuse. Oil Air and Water. 

(vj) Miscellaneous : 

Vressurrnat u control valve, Flexlip 
Blow (lun, etc. 

( vi » ) Automatic Cliassis Lubncntion 

System-. ,\. C. L type "2 lit ivseapucit\ . 

(vm) Oil Burning Kquipmcnt : 

Vuloinu i a Oil Kn mg. ,vt stem, lor kiln*, 
fol oidiliai,\ bricks. l rlaclni a r., 
ceramics Automatic continuous oil 
burners for k i Ins. 

(i\) Foamite File fighting equipment : 

( 'hcinieul Fin* Extinguishers, Tecnlenut 
Nylon Heat and light slublfsed 

tubing. Teralomit High Presume 

Nylon Hose. Teealeinit Nylon Plastic 
Products. ( X . I .). 


Scheduled Indent No. 19(1) Inorganic Heavy Chemicals 

Hindustan Heavy Chemicals Ltd.. Hindustan Caustic Soda .. U.II00 tons p.u. .. L/l9(l)/f>7 SF./Ch(I)/(il, 2-lMil. 

Buildings, 4 Cliittaianjan Avenue. Cal- Chlorine . .VtiOO ton,*, p.a. 

outta- l.'L (W rst Bengal). ilydiochlone n< id 1,980 tons p.a. (S. F ). 


LIST OF LICENCE8 ISSUED UNDER THE INUU8TRIE8 (DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) ACT, 1981— DURING TW 

WEEK ENDING 25TH NOVEMBER, 1961. 

Name imd address ot the industrial Artielos of manufacture and capacity (and Licence number and date, 

undertaking (and location). typo of licence, i.o., NU/KE/NA/COlC 

Shifting). 

Schd. Ind. No. 1A(1)— iron and Steel (Metal) 

Sun Rolling Mills Private Ltd., S Cornwallis Steel Ingots 2,880 tons p.a. (N. t T .) . . L/lA(l)/N.35/01,2.1Ltih 

Street, (Jalcutta-ti, (24-Purganas. West. 

Bengal). 




i n jb - C5LC'C TT A GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 


35 


. nr OE LICEN0E8 ISSUED UNDER THE INDUSTRIES (DEVELOPMENT AND RE6ULATI0N) ACT, 1951 DURING THE 
U8> WEEK ENDINQ 25TH NOVEMBER, 19B1. 


Xiirn< 


tind full address of the undertaking Art icles of manufacture and capacity (and 
(and location). type of licence, 1 NU/8E /NA.COB/ 

Shifting). 


Licence numher and date. 


Schd. Ind. No. 1A(3)— Iron and Stool Castings and Forgings 

I j roll & Steel Works, 392 (Land Cast Iron (Hastings 3.0(H) tons per annum L/ lA(3)/34 ,tilEI(M). 14 11 til. 
U frauk Road (North), Salkia, HoWruh, on single shift basis. (N. l T .). 
t ^\ ( M Bengal). 

,i Iron & Steel Ltd.. 4 Seindia House, Steel castings 3.(100 tons aftor expansion L/lA(3)/35/tllET(M), 31-10 01. 
* Xo" Delhi. (Calcutta, West Rongal). oil tlireo shift Oasis.' (S. K.). 

( unih Iron <fc Stool Works (Private) Ltd., U. (L Iron casting (>00 tons p.a. oil single L/L\(3)/43/t>l E1(M ). (* 11 -(II. 
•jo Henares Road, Salkia. HoWruh, (West shift. (N. A.). 

Hciigal). 


Schd. ind. No. 1 A(5) Iron and 8teel Pipes 

nit.d Metal Industries. 14 Nurmull Lnhia Conduit pipes ami tilting^ 17,44,500 run- L/IA(5)/J /LEl(B)/tiJ , 10-11-01. 
! 'L (Ulciitia-7 (Howrah. West Bengal). nmg find (500 tons) p.a. on single shdt. 

' ’ (C. (). B.). 


Schd. Ind. No. 1B(2) -Semi-Manufactures and Manufactures 

Viitmuors and Closures Ltd., 2 Fairlio J > lace, Metal Closures ( Aluinui mm Roll oil and L/J H(2)/2/JEI( B) /(» 1 . 20- 1 1 (i 1 . 
Calcutta- 1 (West. Bengal). Pilferproof seals) oK,S00,000 Nos. per 

annum on single shift. (C. (). B.). 


1ST OF LICENCE8 I88UE0 UNDER THE INDUSTRIES (DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) ACT, 1961 -FOR THE 

WEEK ENDING 2ND DECEMBER, 1961. 


\,„ n „ ami full address of the undertaking Articles of manufacture and capacity (and Licence numher and date, 
(and location). type of licence, i.n., N C/SE/( 'OB/ Shifting). 


Schd. Ind. No. 1A(3) Iron and Steel Castings and Forgings 

; K. Industries. 144, Cut toll Street ,CaL Cost Iron Castings 3, ISO tons p.u. on single L/l A(3) /4 1 /til E 1 (M). 31 - 10 (>]. 
miu (l.illooah, Howrah). West Bengal. shift hams. (S. K.). 


Schd. Ind. No. 1 A(5) — iron and Steel Pipes 

layman Engineering Works Ltd., Douhlo Spiral Wolded Pipes for oil, (Lis L/l A(5)/l J /OlLT(AI). Li- J j -<;J. 
-J, Ihahoiirno Road, Calcutta-1, (West and Water (exceeding 20* dm) 45,(100 
licngiil). tons p. a. en twn shift basis. (N. A.). 


Schd. Ind. No. 8 (A-2) Jute Machinery 

Inaiital Electric and Engineering Co., Roll winders 72 Nos. p.a. on single aloft L/8/A-2/5/0J -JVIEI, 24-i 1-01. 
.National Tobacco Building, 1 tV 2 Old basis. (N. A.). 

('milt Bouse, Calcutta-!, (West Bengal). 

Items. Capacity p.u. 

Uaunoci) Ltd.. 4 Clive Row, Calcutta- 1 Flame-proof liglit ing liftings 30,000 Nns. 

(West Bengal). Flame prool lighting Tiuns- i,N0O Ni,s. 

lo rmers. 

(single shift). 

(N. A.). 


Schd. Ind. No. 22— Drugs and Pharmaceuticals 

Str "di Stanistroet & Co. Ltd., 18 Convent Caffeine 4,236 kilos p.a. (»S. E.) .. L/22/y5/(i](’hlTI, 23-1 1-(]1. 

Hoad, Calcutta- 14 (West Bengal). 


TJIK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 




:k; 


LIST OF LICENCE8 ISSUED UNDER THE INDUSTRIES (DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) ACT, 1981— FOR THE 

WEEK ENDING 2ND DECEMBER 1961 

Name and full udtlmts of this undertaking Art icIck of manufacture and capacity (and 
(and location). type of licence, i.e., NU/SK/XA/COB/ 

Shifting). 

Schd. Ind. No. 33(4)— Glass Wool 

33 Fibreglass Ltd., (*/(). Messrs. 'I ho Bombay • • • • 

Go. (p) Ltd., •) Wulhieo Street. Horn bay. 1 
( Maharashtra ). (West Bengal). 

jtoni. Animal capacity. Location. 


(a) Insulations Wool Glass Toxtilos : . 

333 tons 

200 tons 

, 1 st stage . . 

1 st stage 

i 


400 tons 

2 nd stage 

► Maharashtra. 


000 tons 

. 3rd stage 



70 tons 

J 

. 1 st stuge 

(]>) IriHulat inn Wool 

333 tons 

. 2 nd stage 

West Bengal. 

(e) Insulation Wool 

. 333 tons (N.U.). 

3rd stage 

South India. 


Licence number and date. 


L/33(4)/2/01-ChlT, 21-11-01. 


LIST OF LICENCE8 IS8UED UNDER THE INDUSTRIES (DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) ACT, 1951 FOR THE 
LIST OF Liutnut. o c W EEK ENDING 9TH DECEMBER 1961 


Name and full address of the undertaking 
(and location). 


Articles of manufacture and capacity (and 
typo of licence, i.e., NU/SK/NA/COB/ 
Shifting). 


Licence number and date. 


Schd. Ind. No. 1 A(7) — Other products of iron and Steel 


Grand Smithy Works, 1 (lirisli Chose Hoad. Box Strappings <1,000 per annum on 

!>.(). Bollurnmth, district. Howrah (West double shilt. (N. V.). 

Bengal). 


L/lA(7)/N-~«io/<il, 7- 111 I»J. 


Schd. ind. No. 12(2)— Hand Tools, Small Tools and the like 

1 Inrbiuihlal M.illmtrii .t Son* IVivnle Ltd. Il.wksnw Uludes I luUi gross per iiimum l./ 12 (J)/ 12 /MKI/ 0 ] , 2!M1 -111 
IS Notuji Kiililun Knurl, Crtleutlu 1 (West (on single shift Ihihis). (S. 10.). 

Bengal). 


Schd. ind. No. 15(1) -Water Meters, Steam Meters, Electricity Meters and the like 


Uailgiw Motor \l!g. t'o., S llurgii t luiritu 
( that ter joe Lane, Calcutta-3 (O mater 
Calcutta, West Bengal). 


House Service Motors single phase -IS, (MM) L/l.»( 1)/- 1 / KKI/01 , 0- 1 1-0 I. 
Nos. p.a. on single shift. (N. l ! .). 


Schd. Ind. No. 30(4) Other Rubber Goods. 


Indian Rubber Manufacturers Ltd., 1 Lyons Printers Blankets 1 , 10,000 s<{. ft. p.n. 
K tinge, Calcutta ! (West Bengal)^ (N. A.). 


L/3h(4)/13 /OlChTV, O-JJ-OL 


LIST OF LICENCES ISSUED UNDER THE INDUSTRIES (DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) ACT, 1951 - DURING THE 
Ll!»T ur liu WEEK ENDING 30TH SEPTEMBER 1961 

Name and address of the Industrial Articles of niniiufact ure mid capacity (and tjjie oi Licence number and date, 

undertaking (and location). licence, i.e., NT SK/NA/ C. O. JL /shifting). 


M/s. Aeronautical Sorviees T-t <1., (’hitta- 
r an jan Avenue, Calcutta (West Bengal.) 


Schd. Ind. No. 7(5)— Automobiles 

Threo-M heeled commercial vehicles 
gross weight). 1,200 Noh. (N.A.) 


(up to 1,1)00 11m. L/7(5)/88/01 -AKT, 25-fl-fll. 


THE CALCUTTA (iAZKTTK, MARCH 8, 1962 


37 


iht 


LICENOES ISSUED UNDER THE INDUSTRIES (DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) ACT, 19S1, DURING THE WEEK 
jT 0 FLie*»v ENDING 16th SEPTEMBER 1961. 


aafl full « fldl0HR of tht3 undertaking 
^ 115, (ami location). 


Articles of manufacl ure and capacity (ami 
type of licence, i.e., Xl T /S E/NA/COB/ 
Shift mg). 


Limin' number anil date. 


Schd. ind. No. 8(A-2)— Jute Machinery 


p,n Manufacturing Co. (P) Ltd., 
f, tab'll. 2i-rarguuo8, (West Bengal). 


•Jute mill machiner} and (»nii't«>phon< noodles- iusttil- 
lml capacity will bo sumo aft or shifting from Calcutta 
to Titagttrii. (Shifting). 


L/H/A-2,3,01 MK1, 7-0-01. 


Schd. ind. No. 12-2— Hand Tools, Small Tools and the like 

, , (*„mpany, Calcutta, Kadomtulla, Hurkt.aw Bludob 711,1200 gnu* per annum on single L/l 2-2/34 /MEl/lil, 31-8-61. 
listru’t Howrah (West Bengal). shift. (N. U). 


IT OF LICENCES ISSUED UNDER THE INDUSTRIES (DEVELOPMENT AND Rl GULATION) ACT, 1951, FOR THE WEEK ENDING 
lIOFUUtnv 2 ND 8EpTE|V|BER 1961 


Vrttne and full address of tho under- Articles of manufacture and impunity (and type of liocnoo. Licence number 

taking (and location). i. o., NU/SE/NA/COB/Sliifting). and date. 


Schd. ind. No. 1A(3) Casting and forgings 

^ Engineering Products Ltd., 21A Spboric dal Graphite Iron Cast ings 2,400 tons p.a. (N.A). L/1A(3)/1 16/ME1/61 , 10-8-61. 
inning Street, Calcutta, Rishro, List, 
jfwghly (West Bengal). 


Schd. ind. No. 6(4)— Radio receivers 

H Manufacturing Co, Ltd., (Calcutta Capacitors 4*32 million Nos. per oiuiiun .. L/6(4)/40/EKI/61. 

i West. Bengal). 


ST OF LICENCES ISSUED UNDER THE INDUSTRIES (DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) ACT, 1961, FOR THE WEEK 

ENDING 16TH DECEMBER 1961 


Nunn* and full address ot the under- 
taking (and location). 


\rtiolcK of nniiiufacture ami rapacity (and type of licence, 
i.e., \ r C/SE, NA /( '() B/Shif'ting). 


Lieenee uurnbei 
und date. 


8chd. Ind. No. 22— Drugs and Pharmaceuticals 

hnriil ( •homical and Pharmaceutical Chlorpiopnmule (N.A.) .. So Kgs. p.m. 

Works Ltd., 6 Cunnsh Chandra Avenue, 

1 'aleiit ta 13 (Calcutta, West Bengal). 


L/22/0K/6] CH. IJT, 
6-12-61. 


Schd. Ind. No. 24(1)P»p»r-Wrlting, Printing and Wrapping 


c t'arrl Board Box Manufacturing Co.. 
‘M'olootola Street, Calcutta -7 (Shankhn- 
na^ar. Dingalhnt, district Hooghly. 
West Bangui). 


(i) Liner paper, Straw 
M.(J. pressing and 
wrapping paper. 

(ii) Tulp. (N.U.), 


paper, 

hrown 


3,000 tons p.n. 


3,000 tons p.u. 


L/24(l )(60)/61 -CH ( 1 ), 
0-12-61. 


Schd. ind. No. 36(1) -Timber Products— Plywood 


tlayshree Plywoods, Prop. M/s. Jay- Plywood 
shrao Tea and Industries Ltd.. India 
Kxohange, Calcutta- 1 (Kharda, Cal* 

°uUr, West Bengal). 


(Barno nisi ailed capacity as it L/36(l ) /37,( hem. I\ 
}>ad before shifting). •• 01. 28-10-61. 

Shifting (change of lor a t inn from 
20 Canal Hast Road, ( aleutta 
to Kharda, Calcutta). 



38 


THK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 


[Part i 


LI8T OF LICENSES ISSUED UNDER THE INDUSTRIES (DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) ACT, 1981, FOR THE 

ENDING 23RD DECEMBER 1961 "U 


Namo ami full addmw of tho undertaking ArticIcH of manufacture* and rapacity (anil Licence number and date 

(and location), type of licence, i.o., NU/SE/NA/BOB/ 

Shifting). 


Schd. Ind. No. 1A(7) -Other Products of Iron and Steel 

Bombay Steel Bolling MiIIh Ltd., 33 Steel Box Strnpp.ngH and Seals and AceesMirie.v 1 , SOU tons j > . u . L/IA(7)/N j;,j, , 

Netaji Suhlias Bond, Calcutta- 1 nut mlly und nuing to ft,. 100 tons per annum, (N.A.) ll-llMil 

(Kalyani, Nadia, West Bengal). 


Schd. Ind. No. 7(5) Automobiles 


Shn Iv. Jt. Bat cl, No. U, Howland Hoad, 
( lalcutta- Jit ((iujarat Stale) (Mysore)/ 
(Delhi). 


Industrial Flexible Hose Lines und F'tt ngs 72,000 to 00,000 Hose L/7(o)0sn i,| w 
Lines p.a. Industrial Self Sealing tioujilmg und Tula* Bend l.‘l-l-(>l. 
Fittings 0,000 to 1— ,000 sealing Coupling p.a. (N.l .). 


Schd. Ind. No. 9— Machine Tools 


Shn Kanadev ( ‘iiaudlmry , .‘14 Ballygunge 
Circular Bead, (lalcutta* 10 (Calcutta). 


Blast ie Injection Moulding Machine and Moulds capacity to be 
dotexminod one year after the production. (N.l .) 


L/0/07 /MU i,| 
J8-n»-t;i 


GOVERNMENT OF BIHAR 
Political (Special) Department 
NOTIFICATION 
Patna, the 30th January 1962. 

No. A/Prs. Ste.-102/62-l 139C. — Whereas it 
appears to the Governor of Bihar that the booklet in 
Hindi entitled “Isai Dharma Granth Bible”, written 
by Shri Harish Chandra Vidhyarthi, published by 
All India Dayanand Salvation Mission, Hoshiarpur, 
and printed at Saboo Press, Ranchi, contains dis- 
paraging remarks against Jesus Christ, Virgin Mary 
and the Bible, which are deliberately and maliciously 
intended to outrage the religious feelings of the 
Christians by insulting their religious beliefs and 
which are intended to promote feelings of enmity and 
hatred between the Christians and Hindus; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
bv section 99A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 
1898, the Governor is pleased to declare the said 
booklet, and every copy of the booklet, all extracts 
therefrom and all other documents containing copies, 
reprints or translations thereof, to be forfeited to 
Government. 

* 

By order of the Governor, 

B. M. P. S1NHA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 
NOTIFICATION 

New Delhi, the 13th December 1961 

S.O. 3008. — In pursuance of the provisions of 
rule 9 of the Indian Power Alcohol Rules, 19^0, the 
Cc.ntral Government hereby makes the following 


fm tlier amendment in the notification ol the Cknun 
ment of India, in the Ministry of Commera m 
Industry No. S.R.O. 1601, dated the 17th Septembe 
1932, namely:— 

In paragraph 2 ol the said notification, to: ih 
words, figures and brackets, "prices payable :u 
supplies of power alcohol by distillers shall ho, 
the rate of Rs. 19.25 (Rupees nineteen and njn 
paise twenty-live only) per hectolitre (100 Mum] 
the following shall be substituted, namely: 

“Maximum price payable for supplies oi p,.i 
alcohol by distillers shall be at the i.i'e 
20 nP. (naye paise twenty only) pet ii 
plus a sum not exceeding «’ nP. in, 
paise eight only) per litre based on i 
actual average cost of the transport 
molasses to the distillery during i 
previous year plus the cost of denutuuti 
in accordance with the specific'? 
prescribed in the Excise Permit". 

S. P. CHABLAN1, Dy. Sect 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Revenue) 

New Delhi, the 3rd February 1962 
NOTIFICATIONS 
Income-tax Establishments 

No. 33.— Shri N. R. Dandekar, Appellate Assisi 
Commissioner of Income-tax, T Range, Calculi 
was granted earned leave for nineteen days from -® 
November 1961 to 16th December 1961 with f 
mission to suffix Sunday on 17th December U6l 1 
the leave. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 


39 


I’.VKT IA] 


i On return irom leave, Shri Dandekar resumed 
, ~j cs as Appellate Assistant Commissioner of 
Income-tax, T Range, Calcutta, on the forenoon of 
iSth December 1961 and aiso took over as Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax, ‘M’ Range, 
Calcutta, on the same date, in addition to his own 
Julies, relieving Shri R. N. Nagwekar, Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax, *C Range, 
Calcutta, of the additional charges. 

No. 34. —Shri R. N. Nagwekar, Appellate Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax, ‘C Range, Calcutta, 
took over as Appellate Assistant Commissioner of 
Income-tax, ‘I’ Range, Calcutta, and as Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax, ‘M’ Range, 
Calcutta, in addition to his own duties, on the fore- 
noon ot 28th November 1961 vice Shri N. R. 
Dandekar. 

P. S. KAICKER, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 
CORRIGENDUM 

Dated New Delhi, the 20th January 1%2 

No. 231. Ministry of Defence, notification 
No. 2173, dated the 1st November 1960, published in 
the “Gazette ol India”, Part 1, Section 3, dated the 
J 2th November 1960/Kartika 21, 1882(S), as amended 
b\ corrigenda No. 2302, dated the 29th November 


1960, published in the “Gazette of India”, Part I, 
Section 3, dated the 17th December 1960/ Agrahayan 
26, 1882(S), No. 480, dated the 25th February 1961, 
published in the “Gazette of India”, Part l. Section 3, 
dated the 11th March 1961 /Phalguna 20, 1882(s), 
No. 803, dated the 13th April 1961, published in the 
“Gazette of India”, Part I, Section 3, dated the 29th 
April, 1961 , Vaisakha 9, 1883(s) and No. 2710, dated 
the 13th December 1961, published in the “Gazette 
of India”, Part I, Section 3, dated the 30th December 
1961/Pausa9, 1883(S), regarding reconstitution of 
the State Advisory Committee tor the Territorial 
Army and Lok Sahayak Sena in the State of West 
Bengal, is further amended as under: — 

under the heading “Members” in the Gdzctte 
notification. No. 2710, dated the 13th Decem- 
ber 1961, published in the “Gazette of India”, 
Part I, Section 3, dated the 30th December 
1961 Pausa 9, 1883(S): 

(i) For “G.O. in-C, Headquarters, Bengal, Bihar 
and Orissa Area, Calcutta.” 

Read “GOC, Headquarters, Bengal, Bihar and 
Orissa Area.” 

(ii) For “G.S.O. 2(TA), Headquarters, Bengal 
Bihar and Orissa Sub-Area, Fort William, 
Calcutta-21.” 

Read “GSO 2(TA), Headquarters, Bengal, Bihar 
and Orissa Area.” 


J. N. GOYAL, Dy. Secy. 



No. 10 of 1962 


leistered No. C207 


©alattia 


2ty? 



Sfci^SPIrl 


PHALGUNA 17 ] 

THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 1962 


[ SAKA 1883 


CONTENTS : 

State Statistical Bureau — Cost of living indexes 
Calcutta , and wholesale prioe index 

for the week ending the 24 th February 
1962 

Page. 

79-80 



SUPPLEMENT— Official Paper* 

UUJ No. 297 STATE STATISTICAL BUREAU, WEST BENfiAL 

TABLE 1 


Cost of living indexes, Calcutta and wholesale price index (week ending 24th February 1962) 

Ah -India wholenale 

< ’oat, of living index - Bus« : Noveml>er, I960. price index*. 


Fenod . 



Expenditure level (in Rg .) 



Base , 

1962 - 63 . 

Converted 

with 

Novemner 
) 96 u as 
bbhV, 


^ 1 — 100 
A 


101—200 


201 - 

-860 


^ Ah 
items . 

Food . 

Til 

items . 

Food . 

All 

items . 

Food . 


( 1 ) 

<*) 

CM 

( 4 ) 

w 

<•) 

H) 

( 8 ) 


I 8 f >4 January 

93*9 

88*8 

94*1 

88*4 

94*7 

48*6 



April 

96-2 

90*4 

9 b * 6 

90*1 

98*3 

90*1 

. . 


July 

94*0 

89*4 

94*4 

80*6 

94-7 

89*6 

. . 


October 

96-3 

91*6 

90*3 

91*4 

96*6 

91*3 

• * 

• 

January 

10*7 

84*7 

91*1 

84*4 

91*7 

84*6 



Apn ) 

89*9 

83*0 

90*6 

83*7 

91*2 

84-0 

88*9 

K > 3 

July 

91*1 

86*6 

91*6 

86*8 

93*0 

85*8 

92-9 

86*0 

October 

93*7 

88*7 

93*9 

89-4 

94*0 

88*0 

90-6 

83.9 

January 

90-9 

84*8 

91*0 

84 *'» 

91-2 

83*7 

96-8 

88*2 

April 

96*2 

91*8 

94*8 

90*4 

94*6 

89*6 

100-0 

92-6 

Jnly 

99*6 

98*0 

98*7 

96*3 

97*8 

94*7 

108-6 

96-8 

October 

102*4 

101-3 

100*7 

96*9 

99-4 

96*9 

100*7 

98-8 


•Revised series (Base : 1962-63) and the corresponding oonverte<i ear ies. 


80 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 


All-India whokati* 

Cost of tiring index— Reae : November, 1950. price index*. 


Period. 




A 





JL ^ 

r 


Expenditure level (in Ra.) 



Base, 

1958-68. 

Coniertai 

with 



^ 1 — 100 


101—200 


© 

l 



^ovembb, 





▲ 


A 



I960 a. 



t — * 

All 

Food. 

All 

Food. 

r All 

Food. 


bass. 



itemR. 


items. 


items. 




(1) 


(2) 

m 

(4) 

m 

(•> 

(7) 

<*) 

(») 

1967 January 


98 *4 

94*6 

97 -0 

91-9 

9«-2 

90*8 

107 -8 

W 

April 


100*6 

98*0 

98 -9 

96 -6 

97 0 

98*6 

106 -6 

98. 

July 


106*0 

106-8 

104-1 

108-0 

102-7 

100-7 

111*9 

108 

October 

« * 

107*6 

107*0 

106-7 

104 -0 

104-0 

108-8 

108 -9 

100 


1958 January 

105 0 

101 *8 

103*1 

98*1 

101 *8 

95-4 

106 -u 

98 

April 

106*0 

108 1 

104 *4 

100 -2 

108 *2 

9V *9 

107 *4 

99 

July 

October 

109*4 

107 *6 

107 -9 

104 *9 

106 -7 

102 -6 

114*7 

106 

118 3 

114 8 

111*8 

113*3 

109*8 

108-6 

116*2 

107 


1969 January 

, , 

103*6 

97-2 

102 -9 

96 *5 

102 *7 

94-6 

112-3 

104 

April 

.. 

106 -8 

100-9 

106-1 

99 *4 

104 -e 

98 2 

111 -9 

103 

• 

July 


110-4 

108-3 

109 *2 

106*1 

108*1 

104 -0 

116-8 

108 

October 

, . 

114*6 

116-0 

113-0 

113*4 

111 -0 

111-0 

119-3 

110 


1960 January 
April 
July 
October 


1961 January 
February 
Maroh 
April 
May 
June 
J uiv 
August 
September 
October 
November 
pecember 


no -4 

108 *8 

J08 -6 

106 -3 

110-6 

108*0 

108 -9 

105 -2 

114*4 

118*9 

112-8 

111 *6 

114*4 

113 *6 

113-2 

111 *8 


109 -7 

106*0 

108*7 

103 *2 

110*6 

106- 1 

109*6 

104-3 

! li. 9 

1H8 i 

lo9 *9 

I >\ 6 

112*2 

108*2 

111*1 

107*2 

112-1 

107*8 

111-1 

107-0 

113-7 

110*1 

112*7 

109*1 

116-2 

114*1 

1161 

113-2 

1 17-9 

116-K 

116 6 

116-7 

118*0 

116 1 

116-6 

116-2 

119-9 

119*7 

118-2 

118-2 

)2o :> 

120 1 

UK t 

118-4 

117*0 

114*6 

116-3 

112*0 


107 -6 

108 -2 

118-8 

lie 

107 -9 

103 *3 

120-6 

111 

111 -6 

109 *6 

124*7 

115 

112 *2 

no 4 

126-3 

117 


108 -4 

102 3 

126 -6 

lit 

109 -0 

103-3 

126-7 

117 

1 3 6 

1< 3 9 

127 6 

llv 

111 -n 

106*6 

126-8 

11 « 

111*0 

106-6 

126 ;> 

116 

112-1 

10K* 1 

126-9 

116 

114*2 

112 2 

12 V 

119 

116 6 

114-0 

127- 1 

11 * 

11.* 1 

113*8 

121-6 

11 ’ 

116-9 

110-7 

124-1 

116 

! ! 6 9 

1 ! C> 6 

124 3 

116 

114-1 

111-1 

122-9 

ns 


Week ending 


27.1-62 

113-8 

109*2 

112*3 

3*2-62 

113 8 

109* 1 

112*3 

10-2-62 

111-0 

109*7 

112-7 

17-2-62 

114*7 

110-3 

113-1 

24 2-62 

114*1 

109*4 

112-5 


107-3 

111*7 

106*3 

124 0 

in 

107 • 1 

111-7 

106*1 

124*3 

< 6* 

108*0 

112*1 

107*1 

124*6 

in 

108- 3 

112-4 

107-2 



107-4 

111-9 

106*4 

. . 



•Revised aerie* (Bb«m 1962-53) and the coireapondintf converted «*eriee. 


Fruited and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 




30 


TDK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 


Roll 

No. 

Nam© of candidate. 

Optional subjeotB. 

2 8. 

Grturdaa Mukhopadhyay. 


31. 

Ilimansu Ray. 


32. 

Hari Narayan Nath. 


33. 

3 uydob ( 'hakrabarti. 


34. 

Jyotindra Nath Mukhopadhyay. 


3f>. 

•Tyotshna Prasad Mukhopadhyay. 


30. 

•Ji tundra Nuth . , .. . . 

Typewriting at 40 words per minute. 

40. 

Moiulul Ahdui* Rahman. 


42. 

Malay Kumar Gupta 

Typewriting at 60 words per minute. 

44. 

MadhuHiidan Ghattopadhyay. 


45. 

Mano Ran jail Daw. 


47. 

Naw Ratna Thirani. 


48. 

Nirinalchaudra Bhattacharyya 

Typewriting at 45 words per minute. 

50. 

Prasad Krisluia Ghattopadhyay. 


53. 

Suprukus Acharya 

Typewriting at 35 words per minute. 

50. 

Ranjitkumar Pal. 


57. 

Kathindranuth Basil ray. 


00. 

Ram Nagina Ram. 


01. 

Syamal Kinnar Uuhu Tliakurta 

Typewriting at 35 words poi minute. 

02. 

Subal Chandra Haidar. 


04. 

Samhhu Natli Halt a. 


05. 

Syamal Kumar Gangopudhyay. 


00. 

Suranjanhilos Songupta. 


00. 

Salil Chandra Nag. 


71. 

Purna Chandra Mukhopudhyuy. 


73. 

Subrata Basil. 


74. 

Syumalkiunar Ghattopadhyay. 


77, 

Salil Kumar Sun Gupta. 


78. 

S u ry anaray an ( 1 liosl i . 


70. 

Sujun Ivumar Ghosh. 



List of successful candidates wl 

u> appeared as Casual Students. 

2. 

Arun Kumar Ghosh. 


20. 

Girjashankar Shah. 


27. 

Go pal Chandra Basu. 


20. 

Horn on< Ira Kumar Chandra 


38. 

Mrityunjay Son. 


30. 

Manik Cliaml Gouti. 


40. 

N al mi i iuu i hai i Bandy o padhv ay . 


40. 

Narayan Das Moliata. 


70. 

Shy am Cliand Das. 



P. C. GHOSH, 

Principal, Goon k a College of Oummerco and 
Business Administration, and Secretary 
{ex officio ), Governing Body. 


PiRl itr i 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 


31 


GOVERNMENT COMMERCIAL COURSE FINAL EXAMINATION. 1901 
List of Casual Students. 


The following students have failed in only one subject which is noted against their names. 
They are, therefore, eligible to appear as Casual Students in tho Government Commercial Course 
Final Examination. 1962. 


Roll Name of students. 

No. 

17. Bikas Chaudhuri 

20. Dhirendra CSujadlmr 

41. Mrityunjay Datta 

80. Sanjay Kumar Mukhopudhyay 


Subject in which failed. 

Book-keeping. 

Book-keeping. 

Economics. 

Book-keeping. 

P. C. GHOSH, 

Pnn(!ipal, Goenku College of Commerce and 
Business Administration, and Secretary 
(ex ojfficio), Governing Body. 


GOVERNMENT COMMERCIAL COURSE SPECIAL EXAMINATION, 1961. 

(Modern English) 

CLASS II 

(Tn order of roll numbers) 

.. Institute of Commerce. Calcutta. 

Ditto. 

. . Ditto. 

. . Suffoc Commercial College, Culeutta. 

. . Private. 

. . Private. 

. . Private. 

P. C. GHOSH, 

Principal, Goenka College of Commerce and 
Business Administration, and Secretary 
(ex ojficw). Governing Body. 

GOVERNMENT COMMERCIAL COURSE SPECIAL EXAMINATION, 1961 

(Advanced Book-keeping and Accountancy) 

CLASS 1 

(In order of merit) 

21. Dasarathi Kur .. .. .. Private. 

CLASS IT 

(In order of Roll Numbers) 


1 . 

Bimalehandra RaychaitdJmn 

Goenka College of Commerce and Business 
Administration. Calcutta. 

4. 

Gopalchundra Saha 

.. Grey Commercial Institute, Calcutta. 

5. 

Dilip Kumar Mukhopadhyay 

Ditto. 

6. 

Nabinkumar Manila! 

D'tto. 

7. 

Sanjib Majumdar 

Ditto. 

8. 

Prana bk anti Ray 

. . Ditto. 

10. 

Nani opal Sail a 

. . Dit to. 

14. 

Biswanatli Das . . 

.. Private. 

17. 

Kamal Krishna Saw 

Ditto. 


P. C. GHOSH, 

Principal, Goenka College of Commerce 
and Business Administration, and 
Secretary (ex-oJficio), Governing Body. 


2. Jugadischandra Ray Chaudhuri 

3. Santikumar Sana 

5. Dhirendra Nath Mondal 

6. Isaac Solomon 

7. Hiranmay Sanyal 

8. Guurmohan Majumdiir 

9. Hajib Sudarsana Rao Narasinga Rao 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 


GOVERNMENT COMMERCIAL COURSE SPECIAL EXAMINATION, 1961 

(Junior Book-keoping and Accountancy) 

CLASS I 

(In order of merit) 


Name of student. 


Institutions* 


7. 

Nila Prasarnia Kar 

. . N & B Commercial College, Calcutta. 

20, 

Narayan Chandra Biswas 

.. Goonka College of Commerce and Business 
Administration, Calcutta. 



CLASS II 


(In order of roll numbers) 

Roll 

No. 

Name of student 

Institutions. 

1. 

Shyamapada Chattorjnn 

. . Goenka College of Commerce and Business 
Administration, Calcutta. 

4. 

Khagendranath Chakrabarti 

Ditto. 

6. 

Ganeschandra Basu 

Ditto. 

8. 

Dobnath Chakrabarti 

N & B Commercial College, Calcutta. 

9. 

Pratima Nag 

. . . . The Central Commercial Institute, Calcutta* 

11. 

Amiya Kumar Nandi 

George Telegraph Training Institute, Calcutta. 

12. 

Asit Kumar Dhar 

Institute of Commerce, Calcutta. 

* 

13. 

Dasurathi Kar 

Ditto. 

16. 

X* 

Biswanath Nandi 

Sourendra Nath College of Commerce and 
Technology, Calcutta. 

17. 

Subhashchamlra Son 

Ditto. 

21. 

Suk uinar Mukhopadhyuy 

Private. 

22. 

Srinitms Patra 

Ditto. 

24. 

Chira Kanjan Sarkar 

Ditto. 

26. 

Mihiiranjan Majumdar 

Ditto. 

27. 

Kabindra Nath Chattupadhyay Ditto. 

28. 

Ajitkiunar Bera 

Ditto. 



P. C. GHOSH. 

Principal, Goenka College of Commerce and 
Business Administration, and Secretary 
(ex ojficio ), Governing Body. 


(JOVERNMKNT COMMERCIAL COURSE SPECIAL EXAMINATION, JttCl 



(Shorthand) 

Roll 

No. 


1 60 words per minute 

CLASS II 

214. 

Manmatlianath Ghosh 

Chinsurali Commercial College, Chinsurah. 



160 words per minute 



CLASS II 

213. 

Sambhuranjan Khan 

Robin’s Fonotik Skool of Shorthand and 
Typewriting, Howrah. 



140 words per minuto 



CLASS II 

211. 

Kamalesh Chandra Dey 

. . The Central Commercial Institute, Calcutta. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 


33 


120 words per minute 

JtoH No. CLASS I 

179. Parimal Kumar Natli . . Private. 


CLASS 11 

(In order of roll numbers) 


168. 

KU& Sengupta 


C <fc M ( Joininercial College, Calcutta. 

160. 

Lulbihan Dutta 


Ditto. 

168. 

Cynthia Peters 


The Park Commercial Institute, Talent t.i 

170. 

Sunilhumar Handyopadhyay 


Balls Institute of Commerce. Bulb. Itutu.ih. 

172. 

Salil Kumar Sarkar 


. Premier Telegraph & Commereial Colli ge. 
Serampore. 

177. 

Sant i prasad Ghosh 


Globe Commercial Institute. Calcutta 

178. 

Bidyut Kumar Ghosli 


Goonka College of Commerce and Busmens 
Administration, Calcutta . 

180. 

Jyotirmoy Biswas 


. Private. 

181. 

Bibha Milra 


Private. 

183. 

Nihnr Kanti Hoy 


. Goenka College ot Commune mid Uii.um'\-.- 
Admin istratmn, Caleutta. 

186. 

Matilal Chakrabarti 


Soureiidra Nath College of Com timer and 
Technology , Calcutta. 

188. 

Manik Chandra \dhikan 


Ditto. 

108. 

Biswanath Sil 


Ideal Commercial Institute', Calcutta. 

194. 

Asoke Kumar Upadhyny 


Ditto. 

200. 

Manindra Nath Biswas 


Institute of Commerce, Caleutta. 

202. 

Birendralal Pal 


Robin's Foxintik Skool of Shorthand and 
Typewriting, Kowrali. 

203. 

Pareshnath Mukhopadhayay 


. Ditto. 

206. 

Arun Kumar Mukherjee 


. Institute of Commerce, Calcutta. 

206. 

Sukharanjan Pe 


1 )itto. 

207. 

Manindra Mohan Kundu 


Ditto. 

208. 

Mutthi Heddi Lakshmann Kao 


The Park (Commercial Institute, Call'd). < 

209. 

Saralkumar Pas 


Commercial Telegraph Tiaiiniig f * db . 
Caleutta. 

232. 

Manoranjan Pathak 

• 

. Salkia Commercial College, Howrah. 


100 

words 

per minuto 



CLASS I 


(In 

order 

of merit) 

144. 

Madhab Chandra Pal 


. Maharaja Cossimbazar Commercial In .t it nl *■*, 
Calcutta. 

198. 

Jnanendra Kumar Ghosh 


Commercial Institute, Naihati. 



CLASS II 


(In order of 

roll numbers) 

2. 

Santiaekhar Maitra 


Goenka College of Commerce and Business 
Administration, Caloutta. 

7. 

Dwipendra Nath BandyopiWthayaya 

Ditto. 

ft 

iMytn Bom* Oho «h 

. 

* Ditto, 


;i4 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 fP ARri{ 


Bull N 

, U 


1 1 

Rut hmdranath Mukliopodhyay 

Goenka College of Commerce and Business 
Administration, Calcutta . 

12 

Bhupnti HhuBha.ii Dalai 

Ditto. 

14. 

Ajitkumor Mnndnl 

Globe Commercial .Institute, Calcutta. 

2ft 

•litondra Chandra Sark or 

. . Salkia Commercial College, Howrah. 

30. 

Himansu Kumar Ghosh 

Ditto. 

37. 

A hit Md. Fazlul Qadcor 

The Park Commercial Institute, Calcutta. 

to. 

Nnndadulnl Sarkar 

. . ( leorgo Telegraph Tra ining Institute, Calcutta. 

42. 

Dulal Miikhopadhyay 

Ditto. 

44. 

Chhnya Goswami 

Ditto. 

47. 

Supravat Das 

Commercial and Telegraph Training College, 
Calcutta. 

50. 

Sudhirkuinar Do . . 

Ditto. 

SI. 

V. G. Joseph 

Ditto. 

04 

Arnulya Kumar Das 

Ghosh & Milter’s Business Institute, Calcutta. 

55. 

N tganiananda Mascha rak 

The North Suburban College of* Commerce, 
Baranagar. 

M> 

Shibsonkar Clink raborty 

Ditto. 

oft 

Mfiuilc Lai Bhattachurya 

Central Commercial College, Calcutta. 

50. 

Hasudm Matma 

Ditto. 

6»» 

l'uran Dhan Dull a 

Ditto. 

6 1. 

Lihnrlnl Hhnr 

George Commercial College, Calcutta. 

6S. 

dagadisc.hnndra Jhiy Chaudlnm 

The City Telegraph and Commercial College, 
Calcutta. 

74. 

Arnulya Chandra Knrmaker 

The Central Commercial Institute, Calcutta. 

75. 

Manna Kumar Cl host* 

Ditto. 

79. 

Nilmtini Handy opadhy ay 

Ditto. 

82. 

\ i ran jail Mandal 

City College Commerce Department, South 
( ’nlcuf t a. 

83. 

1 >imal leant i Ghosh 

Ditto. 

85. 

Kuilnndrumith Munsi 

Ditto. 

S(>. 

Samir Kumnr Glinse 

Ditto. 

SO. 

Krishna Rada Das 

The Premier Commercial Institute, Ranaghat. 

90. 

Pmmpati Lnskar 

Ditto. 

93. 

Dipok Kumar Mukhopadhya^ a 

The Popular Tost ilute of ( 'ommerco, Hurd wan. 

94. 

Birendrnnnth Dnssarma 

C & M Commercial College, Calcutta. 

90. 

Hrajariinjim Bandy opadhy ay 

Gregg Commercial Institute, Hally, Howrah. 

9S 

Asokknniar Hongupta 

Ditto. 

1 28. 

Amulya Ratan Hnsak 

The Lake Commercial College, Calcutta. 

1*29. 

Asit- Kumnr BhattH.charyyR 

Ditto. 

147. 

Xisithkumnr Sahn 

Commercial Institute, Nnihati. 

150. 

Praknsh Chandra Son 

Robin’s Fonetik Skool of Shorthand and 
Typewriting, Howrah. 

151. 

Hikas Chandra Pal 

Ditto. 

159 

Ranu Majumdnr . . 

. . C & M Commercial College, Calcutta. 

101. 

I)oly Mukhopadhyny 

. . Ditto. 

162 . 

Sreeeh Chandra Das 

•«. Premier Commercial Institute, Ranaghat. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 


35 


Past 



Roll No. 

163. T apendranath Bhattacharyya 

165. Gopikrishna Paul 

166. Panchu Gopal Roy 

167. Harilal Bandyopadhyay 

169. Monindra Chandra Mitra 

173. Udaykumar Gulia 

174. Dobiprasad Bhattacharyyn 
176. Narendra Chandra Deb 
182. Samir Kanti Maitra 

190. Shaikh Taber Ahmed 
192. M. A. Parameswaran 

195. Ajitkumar Basu . . 

196. Sukhon Chandra Kar 

197. Prodyote Kumar Sanyal 
199. Mani Mohan Bandyopadhyay 

201. Kripamay De 

230. Nimai Kumar Roy 
234. Niranjnn Roy Chowdhury 


George (Commercial College, Calcutta. 

Central Commercial College, Calcutta. 

The 8 term Coach, Calcutta. 

(Commercial and Telegraph Training College, 
Calcutta. 

Rteno Coach, Calcutta. 

Institute of Commerce, Calcutta. 

Ditto. 

Globe Commercial Institute. Calcutta. 

National Techno-Commercial Institute, Asan- 
sol. 

Suffee Commercial College, Calcutta. 

The Lake Commercial College, Calcutta. 

Ideal Commercial Institute, Calcutta. 

Commercial Institute, Nniliati. 

Ditto. 

Robin's Konetik SkooJ of Shorthand 
Typewriting. Howrah. 

Hooghly Shorthand Sr. Typewriting School, 
Rally, Honghly. 

Private. 

George Institution of Commerce and Tele- 
graphy, Cooeh Bohar. 


80 words per minute 
CLASS I 

(In order of roll numbers) 

101. Pnrimal Sen . . . . N A R Commercial College, Calcutta. 

227. Barendra Kumar Daphtari .. .. George Institution of Commerce and Telo- 

graphy, Siliguri. 

228. Ganesh Chandra Sarkor . . Ditto. 


80 words per minute 
CLASS II. 


(In order of 

1 . Gita Das 

3. Santisekhar Maitra 

5. Aditya Prosad Mukliopadhaya 

6. Malla Rama Rao 

8. Shyama Pada Ghosh 

JO. Anjali Dag Gupta 

17. Chittaranjan Ray 

18. Samir Chandra Bandhyopadhyay 
26. Manojkumar Chattopadhyay 

29. Kartikchandra Bhar 

81 * Man— Krnnar Mukhopadhyay 


roll numbers) 

Goenka College of Commerce and Ruisness 
Administration, Calcutta. 

Ditto. 

Private. 

Ditto. 

Goenka College of Cemmeree and Business 
Administration, ( 'alcul ta. 

Ditto. 

Institute of Commerce. Calcutta. 

Ditto. 

Bally Institute of Commerce, Ballv, Howrah. 
Salkia Commercial College, Howrah. 


Ditto. 


38 


THE (’AliOTTTTA HAZKTTK. MARCH 8, 1962 


fPARTJj 


Koll No. 



36. Jagadish (Sandra Das 


Nityananda Commercial School, Barrackpore. 

38. Meripo Oyrl 

41 . Sambhunath Bhattacharya 


Tho Park Commercial Institute, Calcutta. 

George Telegraph T rain in g Institute, Calcutta . 

43. Jagadindra Chakraborty 


Ditto. 

46. Satya Kanjan Saha 


. . Commercial and Telegraph Training (Allege, 

Calcutta. 

62. Khagendra Nath Sircar 


Ditto. 

57. Awadh Narayan Mishra 


. . Contral Commercial College, Calcutta. 

61. Susilkiunar Bagis 


. , George Commercial College, Calcutta. 

63. Krishnapada Ray 


Ditto. 

76. Dhirendra Chakraborty 


. . The Central Commercial Institute, Calcutta. 

81. Nirmal Kumar Roy 


. . City College, Commerce Department Main 

Calcutta. 

87. Aliindra Kayohaudhuri 

•• 

City College Commerce Department (south), 

Calcutta. 

88. Sekliar Nath Sanyal 


. . Tho Premier Commercial Institute, Ranaghat. 

91. Pradip Kanti Majurndar 


The Popular Institute of Commerce, Burdwan , 

97. Dilip Kumar Fal 


Gregg Commercial Institute, Bally, Howrah. 

100. Pranab Kumar Mukhopadhayu 

N & B Commercial College, Calcutta. 

106. Satyen Sou 


Salkia Commercial College, Howah. 

108. Nandalal Arharvya 


.. National Techno-( k>mmeroial Institute# 

Asansol. 

109. Baidyanath Dan . 


Ditto. 

111. Rabiloohan Chakrabart i 


Ditto. 

115. Minati Bhattacharyya 

•• 

. . Collogo of Commerce and Technology, Tolly* 
gunge. 

117. It. Krishnaswamy 

The Lake Commercial College, Calcutta. 

80 words per minuto — contd. 

CLASS IT 

(In order of roll numbors) 

119. T. N. Roma Swamy 


Tho Lake Commercial Collogo, Calcutta. 

121. Roba Duti 


Ditto. 

122. Shorn bhun ail i Bandyopadhyay 

Ditto. 

124. Urna Nath Ray . . 


Ditto. 

131. Rnjnndroelmndm Ray 


Naihati Chamber of Commerce, Naihatj. 

137. Sachcbidanauda Ookm oihi 


Ditto. 

139. Jyotirmay Bagclii 


Vivokananda Vanijya Vidyapith, Suri. 

140. Sudhir Ran jau Daa 


Ditto. 

141. Rathindra Nath Kundu 


. . Chinsurah Commercial College, Chinsurah, 

146. Gopalchandru Ghosh 


Commercial Inst itute, Naihati. 

149. Kalyankumar baba 


Ditto. 

152. Biahnupada Roy 


Robin's Fonetik School of Shorthand and 
Typewriting, Howrah. 

1 53. Juthika Banorjee 


Ditto. 

220. P. R. Balittiibramaman 


. . The Lake Commercial College, Calcutta. 

237. Bhola Prasad 


Tho George Telegraph Training Institute, 

Asansol. 

238. Amar Nath Rudra 


Ditto. 

241. V. Vaaudevan 


Ditto. 

P. C. GHOSH, 

Principal, Goenka College of Commerce 
and Business Administration, 

•x-effioio Secretary, Governing Body. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. MARCH 8, 1962 


37 


AR' f 


m 


GOVERNMENT COMMERCIAL COURSE SPECIAL EXAMINATION, 1961. 

(Typewriting) 

75 words per minute 

Roll 

No. 


138. 

Asitmohan Bhattacharya 


. . The North Suburban College of Commerce. 
Baranagar. 



70 words per minute 

72. 

Kanailn] Sarkhol 


Bally Institute of Commerce, Bally, Howrah. 

348. 

Katya Narayan Ray 


. . Institute of Comraoreo, Calcutta. 



65 words 

per minute 

247. 

Pubitrakuroar Dobsarkar 


Gregg Commercial Institute, Bally, Howrah. 



60 words per minute 

10. 

Oita Das 

•• 

. . Goenka College of Commerce and Business 
Administration, Calcutta. 

17. 

Bidyut Kumar Ghosh 


Ditto. 

39. 

Sukharanjan De . . 

.. 

. Institute of Commerce, Calcutta. 

213. 

Mntilal Chakrubarti 


Kournndra Nath College of Commerce and 
Technology, Calcutta. 

2*43. 

llarai than Mazumdor 


The Promior Commercial Institute, Kannghut. 



55 words per minute 

22. 

Sin 1 > Chandra Loral 

•• 

. . Goenka College of Commerce and Basilican 
Administration, Calcutta. 

33 . 

Kyainapadn De 

.. 

Globe Commercial Institute, Calcutta 

1 S3. 

Mauor.tujun Pat lmk 


Sal km Commercial < \>lleg«\ Howrah. 

221. 

\-ioUf* Kuomr Ujiadhyay 


Ideal Commercial Institute, Culeuttn. 

293. 

Nurayam li.iiidia Saha 


Cliinsuruli Commercial College, Chjnsurah. 

303. 

Relm Lhatlarharyya 


Ditto. 



50 word'. 

pel minute 

H. 

Dharam Kant a Paul 


Pr \ ate. 

35. 

Narayan Paul 


Globe Commercial Institute, Calcutta. 

38. 

Sluhcharan Ranerjoe 


Ditto. 

41. 

Murarunohnn Rhandari 


Inst i tut o of Commerce, Calcutta. 

51. 

Gobindalal Lha It neharyn 


The City Telegraph and Commercial College, 
Calcutta. 

09. 

Keshah Chandra Chattopadhyay 

Bally Institute of Commerce, Bally, Howrah. 

77. 

Kauai lal Mukhopadhyay 


The Stono Coach, Calcutta. 

90. 

Mutthi Reddi Lakshmana Rao 

The Park Commercial institute, Calcutta. 

no. 

Amlchandra Datta 


. . Commercial and i olograph Training College 
Calcutta 

m. 

Krishna Ray 


Ditto 

146. 

Chitta Ranjan Saha 


. . George Commercial College, Calcutta 

169. 

Gopinath De 


. . City College, Commerce Department (South), 
Calcutta. 

279. 

Raghunath Biswas 


. . Naihati Chamber of Commerce, Naihati. 

292. 

Siddheswar Ghosh 


. . Clunsurah Commercial College, Chmsurah- 

293. 

B'swanath De 


Ditto. 

294. 

Suranjan Sorkar . . 


. . Ditto. 

;}30. 

Karoudraaatli Ch^attopadhyaya 

Hooghly Shbrthaud and Typewriting School, 
Baaaberia. 



:jS THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 lp Aari| 



45 words per minute 


Roll No. 

12. Nimai Chandra Das .. .. Private. 

19. Shyamapada Ghosh .. .. Goenka College of Commerce and Business 

Administration, Calcutta. 

40. Samir Chandra Bandyopadhyay .. Institute of Commerce, Caleuttu. 

47. Dihakar Ghosh .. .. .. Progressive Commercial College, Howruli. 

48. Harakuraar Ghosh . . . . Ditto. 

52. Dhirendra Nath Mondal . . . . The City Telegraph and Commercial College, 

Calcutta. 

52. Nimai Chandra Bhattaoharyyu . . Ditto. 

72. .) i tundra Chandra Sarker .. .. Salkia Commercial College, Howrah. 

74. Arun Prosad Mukhopadhayay . . Ditto. 

70. Mira Mukherjoo . . . . . . Grey Commercial Institute, Calcutta. 

97. Usha Ghoshal . . . . . . Dutta Commercial Institute, Chakdahu. 

99. Araarendranath Pal . . . . Ditto. 

120. Ddipkumar De .. .. .. The North Suburban College of Commerce, 

Baranagar. 

101. Atlanta Kumar Sengupta . . . . Tho City Telegraph and Commercial College, 

Calcutta. 

102. Saradindunath Siddhanta . . . . Ditto. 

1X9. Rahilochau Chakraharti .. .. National Techno-Commercial Institute, 

A Hansel. 

212. Arahiiidakumar Mandal .. Sourendrn Nath Cullego of Commerce and 

Technology, Calcut ta. 

215. Arun Kumar Ghosh .. .. Ditto. 

210. Amt Kumar Bhattacharyyn . . . . The Bake Commercial College, Calcutta 

2 IS. Kali Kanta Kundu .. .. Ditto. 

222. Sautigopal Das .. .. Ideal Commercial Institute, Calcutta. 

202. Puma Chandra Smha .. .. Tho Popular Institute of Commerce Jiurd wan. 

204. Shay an ml Kumar Sengupta .. .. C & M Cornmoiem! College, Calcutta. 

208. Kamilla 1 Ghosh . . . . Ditto. 

282. Biswanath De . . . . . . The College of Wireless and Commerce, 

Calcutta. 

299. Tarapada Datta . . . . . . Chinsurah Commercial College, Chinsurah. 

302. Santoshkumar Chanda . . . . Ditto. 

308. Champaklal Vakhana . . . • The College of Wireless and Commerce, 

Calcutta. 

314. Mohanlal Verma . . . . . . Commercial Institute, Naihati. 

325. Bimalkumar Ghosh . . . . International College of Commerce, Calcutta. 

331. Gopal Chandra De .. .. Robin’s Fonetik Skool of Shorthand and 

Typewriting, Howrah. 

333. Hemchandra Ghoshbiswas . . . . Ditto. 

337. Anil Kumar Sharma . . . . Ditto. 

351. Hridaypada Mallik .. .. Hooghly Shorthand and Typewriting School, 

Hooghly. 

40 words per minute 

21. Siddhartha Som . . . . . . Goenka College of Commerce and Business 

Administration, Calcutta. 

23. Subrat a Bandyopadhyay . . . . College of Commerce and Technology, Tollv- 

' - gunge.. 


24. Jayoari Bisi 


Ditto. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 


39 


]»\RT IWJ 


Roll No. 


30. 

Haradhon Das 

Globe Common- ial Institute, Calcutta. 

34. 

Prnbirkumar Chattopadhyay 

. . Ditto. 

40. 

Pranabkumar Ghosh 

. . Institute of (Commerce, Calcutta. 

50. 

Jagabandhu Chatterjee 

Progressive Commercial College, Howrah. 

55. 

Manomohan Chakrabarty 

. . The City Telegraph and Commercial College, 
Calcutta. 

57. 

Maliadeb DaH 

. . Premier Telegraph and Commercial College, 
Serampore. 

58. 

Soikli Nur Tslam Mondal 

Ditto. 

01. 

Amal Kumar Sinho Roy .... 

Ditto. 

02. 

Anilkurnar Das . . 

Ditto. 

04. 

Rainondronath D<* 

. . Ditto. 

05. 

Anilkurnar Chakrabarti 

Ditto. 

71. 

Rabindranath Sinlia 

. . Bally Institute of Commerce, Bally, Hoviali. 

84. 

Puslipa Mitra 

. . Nityananda Commercial School, Barrack pon . 

85. 

Amalondu Nath Basil 

Ditto. 

86. 

Sudliir Kumar Karmakar 

. . Ditto. 

02. 

Band Baran Ghosh 

George Telegraph Training Institute, Calcutta 

100. 

Bishim pada Mandal 

. Dutta Commercial Institute, Chakdnha. 

101. 

Cliittrt Ran jan Mukharjoo 

. . Commercial and Telegraph Training Collect*. 
Caloutta. 

104. 

Kartikku mar Gangoj >adhyay 

Ditto. 

100. 

Zaliid Hussain 

Ditto. 

183. 

Krishna Duttngupta 

The North Suburban College of Cornu i n t 
Calcutta. 

184. 

Sudi u ilk u mar Do 

Ditto. 

135. 

Maklianlal Datta 

Ditto. 

140. 

l’artha Suratlii Kumar 

Contra] Commercial College, Calcutta. 

1 45. 

Dukli Bliuiijan Prasad 

Ditto. 

147. 

Jahurial Bhar 

. . George Commercial College, Calcutta. 

140. 

Ganosh Chandrs Das 

. . Ditto. 

167. 

Hemendra Kumar Chandra . . 

.. The Central Commercial Institute, Calcutta. 

170. 

Ashimkumar Ghoahal 

. . City College, Commerce Department (South), 
Calcutta. 

175. 

Biswanath Datta 

. . City College, Commerce Department (Main), 
Calcutta. 

176. 

Amarnath Mukhopadhyay 

Ditto. 

196. 

Nilitna Basil 

. . National Techno-Commercial Institute, Asan- 
sol. 

206. 

Saroj Kumar Nandy 

Goenka College of Commerce and Business 
Administration, Calcutta. 

226. 

Prabhatkumar Bhattacharyya 

Naihati Chamber of Commerce, Naihati. 

231. 

Samir Bikash Banerjee 

. . Stenographers’ Concern, Calcutta. 

244. 

Krishna Pada Das 

. . Premier Commercial Institute, Ranagbat. 

251. 

Sudeb Kumar Mu kherjee 

. . N and B Commercial College, Calcutta. 

252. 

Manaskuniar Ghosh 

Ditto. 

258. 

Susan ta Karmakar 

. . Premier Telegraph and Commercial College, 
Chandemagore. 



Roll No. 


259. Susilkumar Ghosh 

. . Tho Popular Institute of Commerce, Burdwan. 

200. Jyoti Prasad Basil Mazumdar 

Ditto. 

291. Indubhushan Sarkar . .. 

Ditto. 

297. Balaram Bhaltncharya 

C and M Commercial College, Calcutta. 

299. Sachindra Nath Kanjilal 

Ditto. 

279. Biswanath Bmidyopndhyay . . 

. . Naihati Chamber of Commerce, Naihoti. 

277. Sihsatva Bhattncharyn 

Ditto. 

278. Narescliandra Desarkar 

Ditto. 

299. Kanendu Manna . . 

Chinsurali Comn-cicial College, Cliinsuiah. 

298. Dilip Kumar Das 

Ditto. 

305. Sandhya Cliaudliuri 

Netaji Suhlmsclmndra Commercial College, 

Calcutta. 

309. Amlendu Bhattacharya 

. . The College of WireloHH and Commerce, 

Calcutta. 

310. BImwani JVosad Mitra 

. . Commercial Institute, Naihati. 

319. Sukhen Chandra lvar 

Ditto. 

332. Dilipkumar Do 

Boltin's Foiietik Skool of Shorthand and 

Ty | lovn ting , 1 1 < twrah . 

339. Gavatri Das Gupta 

Ditto. 

338. Anil Kumar Ghosh 

Ditto 

339. Jutlnka Bn nor joe. 

Ditto 

342. 1'ijush Kunti Basnk 

Ditto 

514. M man Mohan Nath 

Di 1 1 o 

319 Dipt ikuMiar Palit 

Hooghlv Man (hand and Ty pe\u it mg School, 

Banshei la. 

358. Pai itosh Bunerjoo 

George Inst it ution oj Cnmnieiee and Tele- 
graphy, Vhpurduai . 

395. Guitesh Cliandra Sarker 

(ieorge Institution of Commeice and Tek' 
graphy, Siltgun 

399. Niranjan Kay Chuiidhuri 

George Institution ol Colnmerot and Tele- 
graphy, Couch Behar. 

371. .Inyanti Dohi 

Ditto. 

372. Nirnmlaram Ghosh 

Ditto. 

374. Stibodli Kuiuar Mujee 

The George Telegraph Training Institute, 


Asansol. 

35 words per minute 

9. iSudliir Chandra Basu . . . . Goanka College of Commerce and Business 

Administration, Calcutta. 

13. Aswini Kumar Mai .. Private. 

20. Kalyan Kumar Ghosh . . . . Goenka College of Commerce and Business 

Administration, Calcutta. 

31. Asunkuinar Datta .. .. Globe Commercial Instituto, Calcutta. 

45. Tusharkanti Ghosh Institute of Commerce, Calcutta. 

79. Dhirendranath Chattopadhyay Bally Institute of Commerce, Bally, Howrah 

91. Asimkumar Mfljumdar .. George Telegraph Training Institute, Calcutta. 

103. Timir Baran Nandy . . Commercial and Telegraph Training College, 

Calcutta. 

108. Cauranga chandra Datta . . . . Ditto. 

113. Dipti Santra 


Ditto. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 


41 


ict 


IB] 


117. Sabyasachi Chakrabarti 

12/3. Mrigondranath Samanta 

131. Kaligopal Mitra 

132. Mihir Cliakrah&rti 

1 4 1 . Nubin Chandra Shaba 
HI. Awadli Namyan Mishra 
143. Subhashchandra Pal 
187. Pabitrakumar Chattopadhyu 

101. H«*m Chandra Mondul 
107. Siboflchandra Goswanii 
100. Lily Daagupta 
200. Jugadish Chandra Das 
2 1 0. Ilaranc Omndra 1 )e 
214. Saroj Kumar Chutterjee 

220. Suchindrannth Mukhopadhyay 
223. Tushnrknnti Duh 
251. Mohinimolian Chakrabarti 
255. Ajit Kumar Chattapadhyay . . 

271. Dilip Kumar Sur 
282. Harendranath Do 

285. Nandalal Mait.y 
287. Sudhir Rnnjan Das 
207. Basantakumur Sur 
313. Ra jendra Prasad 

317. D hire Das 

318. Nisi thkumar Saha 

320. Parul Prava Sen Gupta .... 
34 1 . Ivanailal Chakrabarti 

355. Nitai Chandra Sinha 

350. Turapada Khanuirii 

300. Amiya Kumar Mukhopudhyay 

308. Jugiibandhu Haider 

370. Dilip Kumar Pal 

375. Kartikchandju Bora 


Commercial and Telegraph Training College, 
Calcutta. 

Ditto. 

Ghosh and Mitter'a Business Institute, Cal- 
cutta. 

Ditto. 

Central Commercial College, Calcutta. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

National Techno-Commoreial Institute, Asan- 
sol. 

Ditto. 

Jadavpur Common' ini College, Belgharia. 
Ditto. 

Nityananda Commercial School, Barruckpore. 
Private. 

Sourondra Nath College of Commerce and 
Technology, Calcutta. 

The Lake Commercial College, Calcutta. 

Ideal Commercial Institute, Calcutta. 

N and B Commercial College, Calcutta. 

Premier Telegraph and Commercial College, 
Sorampore. 

Naihati Chamber of Commerce, Naihati. 

The College of Wireless and Commerce, 
Calcutta. 

Ditto. 

Vivokananda Vanijya Vidyapith, Suri. 
Chinsurah Commercial Collogo, Chinsurah. 
Commercial Institute, Nailiati. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

International College of Commerce, Calcutta. 

Robin’s Konotik Skool of Shorthand and 
Typewriting, Howrah. 

Salkia Commercial College, Howrah. 

Ditto. 

George Institute of Commerce and Tele- 
graphy, Kalitnpong. 

Hooghly Shorthand and Typewriting School, 
ilooghly. 

George Institution of Commerce and Tele- 
graphy. Cooch Behar. 

MahiHmardini Telegraph Commercial 
Institute, Tamluk. 

P. C. GHOSH, 

Principal, 

Goenka College of Commerce and Business 
Administration and Secretary (ex otticio). 
Governing Body. 


42 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 


f P ARl 


GOVERNMENT COMMERCIAL COURSE PINAL AND SPECIAL EXAMINATION, 1961. 
The examination for 1061 of the following candidates are cancelled : 


1. Adhir Kanjan De Roy, 

Roll — F. 4 (Final Examination) 

Goenka College of Commeice and 
Business Administration, Calcutta. 

2. Bonoy Bhuson Chakrahorty, 

Roll — F. 16 (Final Examination) 

Goonka College of Commerce and 
Business Administration, Calcutta. 

3 . Monoranjan Baidya, 

Roll — 24 (Shorthand- Special Examination) 

The City Telegraph and Commercial Collego, 

Calcutta. 

P. C. GHOSH, 

Principal, 

Goenka College of Commerce and Business Administration 
and Secretary (ex officio), Governing Body. 

The result of the undernoted candidate will be doelared when comploto : 

Harondro Chandra Paul, Roll — 352 — (Private) . . Government Commercial Course Special Exa- 
mination in Typewriting. 

P. C. GHOSH. 

Principal, 

Goenka College of Commerce and 
Business Administration and Secretary (ex officio). 
Governing Body. 


pAlit IB] 


TIIE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 


DIRECTORATE OF BOILERS, WEST BENGAL 

Tho following candidates tiro duclarod to have passed tho Boiler Attendants b Elimination 
under tho A Vest Bengal Boiler Attendant Billon. 1958, hold by tin* Boaid of Exnmintii- on 0 o 
5th and Gth December 1901, at tho oilin' of tho Chief Inspector of Boilora. Went Bengal. 1 
Hastings Struct (8th floor), Calcutta.], and have boon awarded certificates of competency 
as uudor — 


On the 5th December 1961 
Second Class Certificates of Competency 


Serial 

No. 

Name 

Address 

1. 

Sk. Ainsiil 

.. C/o. Bengal Chemical and I'lmrmaecut ieal \\ oris. 
Ltd., post oflice Pniulmti, 24 Put game. 

2. 

dokhai 

C/o. C. I3.S.C. Ltd. Southorn Cornual mg Stat ion, 
2S Carden Reach Road, Calcutta — 24. 

3. 

Haradu Cliarun Ha run 

.. C/o. Bangasri Cotton Miilh Ltd., Sodepore, 
24-PargaiuiK. 

4. 

Saroj Molmn Roy 

C/o. Messrs Guest, Keen Williams Ltd., Training 
Department, 97 Andul Road, post oflice Bo- 
tanic Garden, Diisti ict Howrah. 

r>. 

Brumdoo Singh 

C/o. Seram pore Distillery and Chemicals Co. 
Private Ltd., 14 Upper Strand Road, post, 
office Sorampur, district Hooghh . 

<!. 

Ram Siirnat Das 

C/o. Tho Rongal Lnxmi Soup Works (P) LUl., 
27 Akahoy Kr. Mnkliorji Road, Calcutta- 30. 

7. 

Pari tosh ( Bioko 

C/o. Corporation of Calcutta, KntalU W r orksJiop. 
3 Convont Road, Calcutta — 14. 

S. 

Bliabendra Nath Roy 

Ditto. 

9. 

Dulal Chandra Mandnl 

Ditto. 

10. 

Sunil. Kumar Banorjeo 

Ditto. 

11. 

Saroj Kumar Chose 

. . C/o. Sliri Surondra Nath Glioso, Ghoscpuni lane, 
post office Shyamuagar, 24-Pnrgiiniis. 

12. 

( ’iianordoo Roy 

130/5 Narkeldanga Main Road, Calcutta- 11. 

13. 

Sit. Italimuddin Klian 

C/o. B.C.P.W". Construction Dopaitment, post- 
otliee Panilmti, District, 24-PurganuH. 

14. 

Sudhangsbn Bhusnn Sarkar 

Pont, office Bally Ghosepara, distiict Howrah. 

JTi. 

Siilxil Chandra Dob 

.. Santoshpur Government Cofliony, post oflice 
Garden Roach, Calcutta-24. 

ir>. 

Baishuah (Chandra Boharn 

. . C/o. d ad a v pur University, Mechanics'! Labora- 
tory, Calcutta-32. 

17. 

Ram Nath Rajbhoro 

. . C/o. Baldoo Sardar, Haru Chose Road, post 
oflice Shyainnagiir, district 24-Pmpaiiaf-.. 

18. 

Jatin Das 

75 Rail Colony, Tollyganj. Calcutta -33. 

19. 

SopaliiRam 

C/o. Hinmislhan Lover Ltd., 03 Gaid«n Rouoji, 
Culcutts-24 . 

20. 

Shamsul Haquo 

.. 73 CJiingrighatta Road, Calcutta- 15. 

21. 

Murari Prasad desswara . , 

143 Upper Circular Roatl, Calcut ta-15. 

22. 

Rahulal Shaw 

87 B. L. Saha Road, iLalghafa, Tollygungo, 
Calcutta. 

23. 

Kalu Bopari 

. . Post officoTulpukur (Bari aek pore). 24 -Parpanas. 
C/o. *Siva Durga Rice Mill (No. 2). 

24. 

Tushar Kanti Mukliorjoo 

C/o. R. C. Haidar, GO K. N. Gliosal Road, 
Ariadaha, 24-Parganas. 

25. 

Anaida Bar 

C/o. Diamond Paper and Board Mills, 8/1/1 Gu- 
rudas Datta Garden Lane, UJtadaugu, 


Calcutta-4. 


43 


44 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, i 962 


| Part ib 


On th« 6th Dtctmtor 1961 
(i) First Class Certificates of Competency 


Serial 

No. 

Name 

Addross 

1. 

M.ilmdeb Ubose 

.. Banerjoe para Road, post office Shaniuugur, 
district. 24-Pargaiuia. 

o 

Kalipadu Paul 

4/B Belli So ram pore Road, Kntally, Cnlcnf ta*J4. 

:i. 

K.itn Siirnth Tewari 

Room No. 12, Works Quarters, Mu Injure Powoi 
Station, Nhyamnngar. dial net 24-Pnrg»nms. 

1. 

M*|. Jdriy Siddi<|ui 

.. C/o. C.E.S.C. Lid.. Mulajoio Generating Station, 
post office NJiyamiiugar, 24- Pmgunuj . 

f' 

fedo HosMtlil) 

C/o. C.E.S.C. Ltd.. < ossipore General ing Station, 
28 Jheel Road, Calcutta- 2. 

a 

Chinmoy Cliakrubart i 

15 Borulpara Lane, Baranagai, Calcutta MO. 


(ii> Second 

Class Certificates of Competency 

i. 

M tinge j Singh 

. . C/o. Orient Pupej Mills 1 Id. post office Praj- 
rajnagar. district. Sambalpur, Orissa. 


Richardson Edwin Daniel 

A/248, Keel or* 17, post office Rourkelhi-3, Orissa. 


Randhan Mahal o 

Quarter No. H/138, O. P. Mills Ltd., post, office 
Bra j raj via gar, Sambalpur (Oiisna). 

i. 

Debinandan Dalln 

Quarter No. A/240, Sector-7, Rourkollu 3, 
district Simdurgatli (Orissa). 

5. 

Ronald Thomas 

.. 0/ o. Mossrs Kalinga Tubes Ltd., post office 

Choudwur, district Cuttack (Orissa). 

r». 

Mohanlnl Mnkhoijeo 

C/o. Nibbujee Rice Mill, jiost office Nihhujic 
Bazar (Kalna), d inflict. Bnrdwan. 

7. 

Shihani (Dumm Roy 

(Vo. B. C. Roy (Control Engineer), Durgapur 
Project Qr. No. 0. N. 51, post office Duigupur-2 
district Bnrdwan. 

S. 

Bnu jit Kumar Basil 

. . R. C./3-04, Ramkrisbiia Avenue, Ruigupur 
Steel Town, Durgapur-4, district Bnrdwan. 

9. 

Atulya Charan Bhowmik 

Quarter No. G L. 5/165, post office Durgapur-4, 
Bnrdwan. 

10. 

NikJiil Del) Salm 

.. C/o. Bibhuti Bbusan Paul, NaiJmli, Kanlalpani, 
district 24-Farganas. 

11. 

Ni ran jail Singh 

C/o. Associated Power Co. Lfd., Sibpore Power 
Station, popt office Clmranpur, district 
Bnrdwan. 

12. 

•T.iliuUmr Birbanshi 

C/<>* Sree Maluibir Riee Mill, post, offir e Pol] mi, 
district Birblmm. 

13. 

Ashit Baran Dan 

Quarter No. E/L- 3-140, Township ‘A* Zone, 
]io»t office Durgapur- 4, Bnrdwan. 

11. 

Md. Bused Ali 

.. C/o. Manna Engineering Winks, post office 
Punduab, district Hoogbly. 

15. 

Bcncdc Kumar Nath 

.. S. D. Bnrdwan ((b>\eruvnent of West Bengal) 
post office Kulli Lock Gale, district 24- 
I‘a rgi mas. 

10. 

Noel S tttnuel ChappolH 

. . Block 43, Loco Quarters, Asaiihol (E. Rly.), 
district- Bnrdwan. 


P. CHAKRABARTI, Secy., 
Board of Examiners. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 


45 


Paiit IB] 


8TATE COUNCIL FOR ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION, WEST BENGAL 

NOTIFICATION 
Calcutta, the 16th August 1901 

The following candidates are declared to have passed the Licentiate Examination in Printing and Graphic Art held in June 1961. 
Te names of candidates who are placed in the First Diyis on in their respective groups are m order of merit. 


Serial 

No. 

Roll 

No. 

Name 

Division 

Group Subject 

Institution 

1 

3 

Sisir Kumar De 

I 

Linotype . . 

School of Printing Techno- 
logy, Cal. -32. 

•i 

14 

Ajit Kumar Banerjee 

I 

Letter PresH Printing (Platen 
and Cylinder). 

Ditto. 

3 

32 

Samarendra Nath Ghosh 

I 

Photo- Mechanical Processes 

(Camera operation). 

Ditto. 

4 

30 

Nibnani Bhattacharya 

I 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

5 

31 

Golokdeb Chattopadhyay 

I 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

6 

1 

Bibhuti Nath Saha 

II 

Hand Composition 

Ditto 

7 

2 

Pari tosh Chakrabarti 

11 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

8 

4 

Kalyan Kumar Basu 

II 

Linotype 

Ditto. 

9 

5 

Amulya Chandra Bhattacharya 

II 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

10 

6 

Dinesh Kumar Basil 

11 

Monotype (Key board and 
caHter). 

Ditto. 

11 

7 

Harsha Kumar Maitra 

II 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

12 

8 

Dilip Kumar Sen Gupta 

11 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

13 

9 

Kali das Chakrabarti 

II 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

14 

10 

Biswa Nath Glioshal 

II 

Letter PrcHH Printing (Plater 
and Cylinder). 

Ditto. 

15 

in 

Mihir Kumar Son 

II 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

10 

20 

Satyabrata Talapatra 

II 

Lithographic Art work and 
Rotouching. 

Ditto. 

17 

21 

Prem Pal Vasudeva 

II 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

18 

22 

Amal Kumar Bhattacharya 

II 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

19 

23 

Bimal Kumar Das 

II 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

20 

24 

Nikhilesh Son 

II 

Lithographic Stone and Plate- 
making. 

Ditto. 

21 

25 

Pankaj Kumar Mukhopadhyay 

II 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

22 

26 

Aloke Kumar S.nha 

II 

Lithographic Printing . , 

Ditto. 

23 

27 

Jayanta Kumar Basu 

II 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

24 

28 

Sukhendra Nath Chakraborty 

II 

Photo-Mechanical Processes 

(Camora operation). 

Ditto, 

25 

29 

Saroj Kumar Mukhorjee 

11 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

20 

33 

Bijan Kumar Ray 

• 

II 

Photo Mechanical Processes 
(Engraving Etching, Routing, 
Mounting, etc.) 

Ditto. 

27 

34 

Arvind Kumar Singh 

II 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

28 

37 

Mrinal Kanti Pal 

II 

Book Binding and Packaging . . 

Ditto. 

29 

38 

Tap an Kumar Chaudhuri 

II 

Commercial Photography 

Ditto. 

30 

39 

Susanta Kumar Basu 

II 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

31 

40 

Subrata Kar 

II 

Ditto 

Ditto. 

32 

43 

J ayanta Kumar Sen Gupta . . 

. . Pass . . 

Linotype 

Ditto. 


A. C. SEN, Socy. 



Registered JVb. C207 






PHAT/4DNA 24 ] THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 1962 [SAKA 188*1 


PART IA — Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India; and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 


and Notifications which have originally been 
republished. 

MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNI- 
CATIONS 

Department of Transport 
Transport Wing 

New Delhi, the 9th January 1962. 
NOTIFICATIONS 
- Ports 

N<> 9-PG(95)/61- In pursuance of sub-section (2) 

>! section 6 ot the Calcutta Port Act, 1890 (Bengal 
Vet U1 ot 1890), it is hereby notified that in accord- 
ing \Mtli the provisions of section 16 of the said 
^ r , Shri M. R. Das of Messrs. Mackinnon Meckenzic 
< Fo. Private Limited, has been elected by the 
Png'll Chamber of C ommerce and Industry, Calcutta, 
hr commissioner lor the port of Calcutta vice 
). W. Anson resigned. 


HARBANS SINGH. Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 25th November 1961. 

'Vs 9-PG(92)/61. -In exercise of the powers con- 
'^red h v section 22 of the Calcutta Port Act, 1890 
, Act 3 of 1890), the Central Government is 
| ll Msed to authorise the Commissioners for the Port 
i Calcutta to raise on the 29th November 1961 a 
■a bait u re loan of Rs. 150 lakhs (Rupees one hun- 
^ 197 ^ re P a y a hle on the 29th Novem- 


published in the “Gazette of India” are only 


THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED 
ACCOUNTANTS OF INDIA 


New Delhi, the 30th January 1962 

NOTIFICATION 
(Chartered Accountants) 

No. 20-PG(Exam)/M/62. - In pursuance of 
■ egulation 94 ol the Chartered Accountants Regula- 
tions, 1949, the Council of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants ol India is pleased to direct that an 
examination in Management Accountancy Course, 
Part I, under the said Regulations, shall be held on 
the 7th, 8th, 9th. 10th and 1 1th May 1%2. The 
examination will be held at the following centres: — 

(I) Bombay, (2) Calcutta, (3) Delhi and 

(4) Madras. 


Applications for admission to the examination arc 
required to be made on the prescribed form, copies 
of which may be obtained from the Secretary to the 
Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India, Post Box No. 268, Mathura Road, New' Delhi- 1 . 
Each such application, together with the necessary 
documentary evidence and a Demand Draft for 
Rs. 100 payable at New Delhi and drawn in favour 
of the Secretary, must be sent so as to reach the 
Central Bank of India Limited, 70 Janpath, New 
Delhi, not later than the 31st March 1962. 


K. NARAYANAN, Dy. Secy. 


B. R. MALHOTRA, Secy. (Acting), 



42 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 15, 1962 


[Part 14 


NOTIFICATION 

New Delhi, the 30th January 1962. 

No. 13-Exam(3)/62. In pursuance of regulation 21 
of the Chartered Accountants Regulations. 1949, the 
Council of the Institute ot Chartered Accountants of 
India is pleased to direct that the Preliminary 
examination under the said Regulations shall be held 
on the 2nd, 3rd. dth, 7th and 8th May, 1962, the 
Intermediate Examination on 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 
llth May 1962 and the Final Examination on 2nd, 
3rd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and llth May 1962. The 
examination will be held at the following centres, 
provided that sufficient number of candidates present 
themselves for the examinations, at each of the cen- 
tres : — 

(1) Ahmednbad, (2) Bangalore, (3) Bombay, (4) 
Calcutta, (5) Delhi, (6) Ernakulam, (7) 
Hyderabad, (8) Kanpur, (9) Poona and (10) 
Madras. 


Applications for admission to these examination* 
are required to be made on the prescribed forms 
copies of which mav be obtained from the Secretan 
to the Council of the Institute of Chartered Account 
ants of India, Post Box No. 268, Mathura Road, 
Delhi-1. Each such application, together with tlv 
necessary certificates and a demand draft payalv 
at New Delhi and drawn in favour of the Secretan 
referred to above, for the Examination fee of Rs. 2; 
in the case of Preliminary Examination, Rs. 52 in th v 
case of the Intermediate Examination and Rs. 77 fo 
admission to both the Groups or Rs. 52 for adrms 
sion to one Group only of the Final Examination mus 
be sent so as to reach the Secretary to the Counci 
not later than the 15th March 1962. 


B. R. MALHOTRA. Sccy. (acting! 



82 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 15, 1962 


Period. 


( 1 ) 

1057 January 
April 
July 

October 


1068 January 
April 
July 
October 


1060 January 
April 
July 
October 


1060 January 
April 
July 
October 



Cost of living index— Bade 

: November, 

1930. 


All-India whoietala 
price index*. 


Expenditure level (in Ra.) 


‘ ’ ■— ^ 

Baas, 

1952-68. 

Convert#] 

with 

Novambti 
1950 * 

1—100 


101—200 


201—860 
t * 



< ' — 

All 

itema. 

Food. 

r- -- 

All 

items. 

Food. 

All 

itema. 

Food. 


base. 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(«) 

w 

(7) 

(8) 

(») 

98 -4 

100-6 

106-0 

107-6 

94*6 

68-0 

106*8 

107*0 

97*0 

98*9 

104*1 

105*7 

91-9 

95-5 

103-0 

104 *0 

96 *2 

97 0 

102-7 

104-0 

90-8 

98*6 

100*7 

102*8 

107-8 

100*6 

111*9 

108 -9 

96 

98 

103 

IOC 

106 -0 

J06 *0 

109 -4 

118-3 

101 -8 

103-1 

107*6 

114 8 

103 -1 

104-4 

107 *9 

111*2 

98-1 

100 -2 

104 -9 

113-3 

101 -9 

103 -2 

106 -7 

109*8 

96-4 

97 -9 
102*6 
108*6 

106-0 

107 -4 

114-7 

116-2 

93 

99 

m 

1M 

108-5 

105 -8 

110-4 

114-6 

97 -2 

100*9 

108*3 

116-0 

102 -9 

106 *1 

109 -2 

113-0 

96 -5 

99-4 

106-1 

113-4 

102 •> 

104 -6 

108 -1 

111-6 

94-6 

98-2 

104-0 

111-0 

112 -3 

111 -9 

116-3 

119-3 

10 

io: 

10 

li 

110 -4 

110-6 

114-4 

114-4 

108 -S 

108-0 

113-9 

113 -6 

108*6 

108*9 

112*8 

113*2 

105*3 

106-2 

111 *6 

111*8 

107 -6 

107-9 

111 6 

112-2 

108-2 
103 -8 

109-6 

110 -4 

118-8 

120-6 

124 -7 

126 -3 

n 

li 

n 

ii 


1061 January 
February 
March 
April 
May 
June 
July 
August 
September 
October 
November 
December 


109 *7 

110 *6 

110-9 
112-2 
112-1 

118- 7 
116*2 

117- 9 

118- 0 

119- 9 
120 -3 
117-0 


106-0 
106 -1 

106-1 
108-2 

107-8 

110-1 

114-1 

110-8 
116-4 

119- 7 

120 - 1 

114-6 


108- 7 

109- 6 
109 *9 

111- 4 
111*4 

112- 7 
116-1 
116-6 
116-6 
118-2 
118-4 

115-3 


103 -2 

104 -3 
104 -6 

107-2 
107-0 
109-1 

113-2 

115-7 
115-2 
118-2 
118-1 
112-0 


108-4 
109 -0 
109 -5 

111-0 

111-0 

112-1 
1U-2 
115-5 

115- 4 

116- 9 

116-9 

114-1 


102 -3 

103 -3 
103 9 
106-6 
106-6 
108-4 

112-2 
114 5 
113-8 
116-7 
116-6 
111-1 


126- 7 

127- 6 

125-8 

125- 3 

126- 9 

128- 7 

127- 4 
124-6 
124-4 
124 -3 
122-9 


Week ending. 

8-2-62 

10-2-62 

*.7.2-62 

24-2-62 

3-3-62 

118-8 

114*0 

114*7 

114*1 

114-3 

109- 1 
109*7 

110- 8 
109*4 

109- 8 

112-3 

112- 7 

113- 1 
112-6 

112-8 

107- 1 

108- 0 
108-3 

107-4 

107-8 

111*7 

112*1 

112-4 

111- 9 

112- 1 

106-1 

107-1 

107-2 

IOC- 4 
106 -f. 


•Revised aerie# (Base i 

1952-63) «.tid 

the corresponding converted aerjea. 



SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 15, 1962 


CORPORATION OF CALCUTTA 

NOTICE 

Dated the 2nd March 1962 

NOTICE is hereby given for the information of the 
public that the Corporation of Calcutta under powers 
vested unto it, has by its resolution, dated the 29th 
December 1961, prescribed the alignments of two 
30 ft. projected streets, i.e., (a) one running north to 
South connecting Fern Road with a 30 ft. road con- 
structed by Hindusthan Corporation Insurance 
Society Ltd. (now Ekdalia Place) and (b) the other 
running east to west connecting Ballygunge Station 
Road with aforesaid 30 ft. road under section 356 
read with section 363 of the Calcutta Municipal Act, 
1951, as shown in the plan prepared for the purpose 
in Ward No. 61 (old No. 27). 

A copy of plan prepared in this behalf may be 
seen in the office of the Chief Valuer and Surveyor on 
any working day during the hours of 11 a.m. and 
2 p.m. on payment of usual fees. 

P. C. MAJUMDAR, Commissioner. 


Printed and published by the Su^rintendent. Government Printing. West Bengal, 
ut the West. Bengal Government Press, Aiipore. 





ptgiftered No C207 


(fairittta 







0ALGUNA 24 ] 


THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 1962 


[ SAKA 1883 


PART IB. — Educational Notices 


EDUCATION DIRECTORATE 


Office memorandum No. (i756SC/tt/4E-6G/61, dated 
Calcutta, the 26th December 1961. 

1 The undermentioned candidates arc declared to have 
as.scd the Senior Training Examination for Women 
eachers, West Bengal, held in 1961 

N.B. — (1) Candidates securing 45 ])er cent, marks in 
the aggregate are placed in the Third Division, 
55 per cent, in the Second Division and 65 per cent, 
in the First Division. 


(-) The letter or letters affixed to the names of candi- 
dates indicate that they have obtained Distinction 
by securing 75 per cent, marks in that subject or 
subjects. 

CH indicates ‘Child Study’. 

1* indicates ‘Principles of Education and School 
Organisation’ . 

V indicates ‘Vernacular’ (Language Paper). 

NHY indicates ‘Nature Study and Hygiene’. 

M indicates ‘Methods of Teaching’. 

L indicates ‘Lesson Notes'. 

H W indicate* ‘Hand Work’. 

NW indicates ‘Needle Work’. 


S. 66 
S. 51 
S. 77 
8. 47 
S. 48 
S. 21 

s. ;i2 
s. 210 

S. 216 
S. 8 
S. ft 
S. 127 
8. 64 
8. 86 
8. 6ft 
S. 14 
8. 62 
8. 08 
8. 35 
8, 45 

S. no 


Boll No., name of eandidates and Institution from which appeared. 
FIRST DIVISION 


SunMtda Ghosh (L.HW.NW) 
Bani Dutta (L.HW) 

Jhama De (L.HW.NW) 
Anima Biswas (L.HW.NW) 
A rati Swar (L) 

Asha Dev (L.HW) 

Mammala Mitra (HW) 
Tshering Kipa (HW) 
Sulochana Lama» (HW) 

Arati Banerjee (NHY) 
Purnima Nath (NHY) 

Bijoya Chattopadhyay (L) 
.Tnthika Sikdar (L.HW) 
Archana Mukherjee (L.HW) 
Maya Gulia (Basu) 

Arati Dutt (HW) 

Sipra Basu (L.HW) 

Bela Basu (Das) (L.HW) 
Sourovini Mandle (HW) 
ltenuka Chattopadhyay (L) 
ltoba Malakar (HW.NW) 


(In order of merit) 

Vidyasagar Bani Bliahan. 

Vidyasagar Bani Bhaban. 

... St. Mary’s R, C. Training School. 

Vidyasagar Bani Bhaban. 

Vidyasagar Bani Bhaban. 

Brahino Training College. 

Brali mo Training College. 

••• Kalimpong Senior Training School. 

Kalimpong vSenior Training School. 

... Krishnagar Women Teachers’ Training School. 

Krishnagar Women Teachers’ Training School. 

... Saroj Nalini Training College. 

... Vidyasagar Bani Bhaban. 

... St. Mary’s R. C. Training School. 

... Vidyasagar Bani Bhaban. 

... Krishnagar Women Teachers’ Training School. 

... Vidyasagar Bani Bhaban. 

Vidyasagar Bani Bhaban. 

Brahmo Training College. 

Vidyasagar Bani Bhaban. 

United Missionary Training College. 


r/j X 7. X X 7. X X X 


48 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 15, 1962 


(Part 


Roll No., name of candidates and Institution from which appeared. 
SECOND DIVISION 
(Arranged serially) 


1 

Bakulrani Roy 


Knshnagar Women Teachers* Training School. 

o 

Jogmaya Chowdhury 

... 

Krishnagar Women Teachers’ Training School. 

4 

Si la Chattopadhyay 


Krishnagar Women Teachers’ Training School. 

9 

Anjali Bhaduri 

... 

Krishnagar Women Teachers’ Training School. 

7 

Anubha Bose 


Krishnagar Women Teachers’ Training School. 

9 

Jaxasri Debi Bhaiati 


Krishnagar Women Teachers’ Training School. 

11 

Sobha* Mitra (HW) 


Krishnagar Women Teachers’ Training School. 

19 

Tripli Dutta 

... 

Krishnagar Women Teachers’ Training School. 

1G 

Jay anti De 


Krishnagar Women Teachers’ Training School. 

17 

Jyotsna Mukhopadhyay 


Krishnagar Women Teachers* Training School. 

20 

Bina Rt*y Choudhuri 


Brahmo Training College. 

22 

Tapasi Hiatt opadlij ay (HW) 

... 

Brah mo Training College. 

29 

Pus pa Bauerjeo 

... 

Brahmo Training College. 

‘J4 

Satirani Bhowmik (HW) 


Brahmo Training College. 

2'» 

Kal puna Das 


Brahmo Training College. 

28 

Rama Mukhopadhyay 


Brahmo Training College 

29 

A run a Dutta Gupta 

... 

Bialmio Training College. 

90 

Rina Banner jee 

... 

Bralimo Training College 

99 

Ihpali Bhattarharjee 


Bialimo Training College 

91 

Rama Ray (HW) 


Bialmm Tunning College 

90 

(iit a Bhattarharjee (HW) 

.. 

Brulinm Tiaiiiing College 

9K 

Bra tali Sinha (HW) 


Bralimo Training College 

99 

(iita Bose (HW) 


Bralimo Training College. 

10 

Purnima Chakravarti 


Bralimo Training College 

1 1 

Chayu Son Gupta 


Yidjasigar Bani Bhahan 

Id 

Snndlixa Sen Gupta (HW) 


Yuha^agar Bani Bhahan. 

19 

Sw again Paiial (11 W) 


Vulva sugar Bani Bhahan. 

90 

Parul Saha. (Rfov) (HW) 

... 

Yuhasagar Bani Bhahan. 

:»2 

Alaklumhu»la ( ’hakiaborty 


Yuhasagar Bam Bhaban. 

oil 

Jyotsna Das 

... 

Y id va sugar Bani Bliaban. 

;>i 

Provabuti Ghosal 


Yuhasagar Bani Bhaban. 

r i.") 

Rama Paul 


Vidyasagar Bani Bhaban. 

GG 

Purabi Pa! 

... 

Yidvasagar Bani Bliaban. 

•17 

Bidyabaii Das (L.HW) 


Yuhasagar Bani Bliaban. 

•IS 

Sandliya Ta»ra Das 


Yidyasagar Bani Bliaban. 

.19 

Anima Dutta (HW) 


Yidyasagar Bani Bhaban. 

(>0 

Mukti Guha Khasnabis 


Yidyasagar Bani Bhaban. 

(11 

Jndu Samadder (HW) 


Yidyasagar Bani Bhaban. 

df) 

Sumitra (Rinse (Basil) (HW) 


Yidyasagar Bani Bbaban. 

09 

Alorani Das (HW) 

... 

Yidyasagar Bani Bhaban. 

70 

Ndima Sarkar (L.HW) 


Yidyasagar Bani Bhaban. 

71 

Gitasree Roy 


Yidyasagar Bani Bbaban. 

79 

A rati Bagchi (HW) 


Yidyasagar lhmi Bhaban. 

71 

Shcn*tt Ghosal (HW) 

... 

Yidyasagar Bani Bhaban. 

79 

Sister Salvatoru (HW) 


St. Mary’s R. C*. Training School. 

SO 

Shih* Banerjee 


St. Alary's R. C. Training School. 

SJ 

Sr. Alice K. V. (HW) 


St. Mary’s R. C. Training School. 

'S2 

Catherine Mathews 


St. Man’s R. C. Training School. 

S4 

Amina De Bhowmick 


St Mary's R C. Training School. 

89 

Sephali Chatterjee 


St. .Mary’s R. C. Training School. 

87 

Sabi t a Haider 

... 

St. Mary’s R. C. Training School. 

88 

Bhajana Bhattarharjee 


"t Mai.v’s R. C. Training School. 

SO 

Pallahi Chakravorty 


St. Mary’s R. C. Training School. 

99 

Aloklata Sircar (NW) 


United Missionary Training (’ollcge. 

91 

Juthika Das 


United Missionary Training College. 

99 

Bithika Das 


United Missionary Training College. 

90 

Sukla Basil 


United Arissionary Training College. 

97 

Pratima Das 


United Arissionary Training College. 

»W 

Arati Das 


United Missionary Training College. 

99 

Sneliaprova Ghosal 


United Missionary Training College. 


p4(h . IB] THK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 15, 1962 49 



Roll No., name ot candidates and Institution from which appeared. 


g. 100 Latika Biswas (NW) 

S. 101 Iva Banerjee 

S. 102 Mokeda Mullick (NW) 

S. 103 Puraima Mandol 
S. 104 Dipti Chatter jee 
g. 105 Suniti Debnath (NW) 
g. 106 Puspita Bhattacharjee 
S. 107 Sabita Biswas 
g. 108 Arijali Sen Gupta 
S. 109 Jayasri Mitra (NW) 

S. 1 1 2 Sulekha Das (NW) 

S. 116 Minritirekha Das (Nee Sarkar) 

S. 119 It u Basu 

S. 123 Saraswati Chattopadhyay 

S. 125 Shibani Dass 

S. 126 Sabita Das Gupta (Nee Biswas) 

S. 128 Mmati Sen Gupta (HW) 

S. 129 Gitika Sen Gupta (HW) 

S. 130 Anjali Cliattopadhyay 

S. 131 Chhayn Hay 

S. 132 Anjali Son Gupta 

S. 131 Minati Pal 

S. 136 Mallika Basu 

S. 137 Rekha Gangopadhyay 

S. 138 Maya Dhar 

S. 139 ITsba Bani Sliaha 

S. 140 Niru Gupta (Nee Di>s Gupta) 

S. 1 13 Mira Datia Gupta (Nee I)a«s Gupta) (HW) 
S. 145 Lila Dutta 
8. 146 Aninia Sen Gupta 

R. 147 Latika Sircar 

S. 152 Chliabi Sen Gtipta 
S. 153 Sovonu l);»«s Gupta 
8. 155 Seba Sen Gupta 

S 157 Subhrn Datta (TIW) 

8 159 Pliullara rbatto])adbyay 

S. 168 Molly Mitra 

S 169 Amita Dutta 

S 171 Bmita Bagchi 

8. 172 Ohhaya* Sarkar 

8 173 Nibha Basu 

8. 175 Rekha Mullick 

S. 176 .lhariui Clmt/topadhyay 

S. 178 Manjusri Roy 

S. 179 R'aina Brahma 

8. ISO Minu Chakraborty 

8. 181 Sabita. Roy Chowdhury 

S. 183 Basana Bnndopadbyay 

S 185 Ka Irani Ghosh 

8. 186 dayanti Ghosh 

8. 187 Bandana Roy 

8 189 A rati Roy Cliowdhnry 

8 190 Maniata Roy 

8. 192 Reba Da* 

8. 193 .Ibarna Sen Gupta 
8. 195 dyotsna Sen Gupta 
8. 197 Rnma Pramanik 
s - 198 Bani Roy 
8. 199 Bulbul Chakra varty 
8. 200 Namita Ray 

201 •Ibarna* Hani Ranorjeo 
‘8. 206 Abha Kar 
8. 207 Jyoti R’ani Danda 


United Missionary Training College. 

United Missionary Training College. 

United Missionary Training College. 

United Missionary Training College. 

United Missionary Training College. 

United Missionary Training College. 

United Missionary Training College. 

United Missionary Training College. 

United Missionary Training College. 

United Missionary Training College. 

United Missionary Training College. 

Saroj Nalini Tiaining College 
Saroi Nalini Training College 
Saroj Nalini Training College 
Saroi Nalini Training Collego 
Saroj Nalini Training College 
Saroj Nalini Training College 
Saroj Nalini Training College. 

Saroj Nalini Training College 
Saroj Nalini Training (MUego 
Saroj Nalini Training College 
Saroj Nalini Training College 
Saroj Nalini Training Collego 
Saroj Nalini Training College 
Saroj Nalini Training College 
Saroj Nalini Training College 
Saroj Nalini Training Collego 
Saroj Nalini Training College 
Saroj Nalini Training Collego 
Saroj Nalini Training College 
Saroj Nalini Training College 
Saroj Nalini Training College 
Saroj Nalini Training College 
Saroj Nalini Training College 
Saroj Nalini Training College 
Saioj Nalini Training Collego 
Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 
• Calcutta Worm^ti Teachers’ Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers* Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 
( alcutta. Women Teachers* Training School. 
Cnleutla Women Teachers* Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers* Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers* Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers* Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers* Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers* Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 
Calcutta Women Teachers* Training School. 



50 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 15, 1962 


[Part i| 


Roll No., name of 

S. 211 Tarambni Dewan 
S. 212 Firmina Sanling 
S. 213 Yanki Tendup 
S. 214 Enid Fadmawatti 
S. 215 Padma Mamchu 


candidates and Institution from which appeared. 

... Kalimpong Senior Training School. 

... Kalimpong Senior Training School. 

... Kalimpong Senior Training School. 

Kalimpong Senior Training School. 
Kalimpong Senior Training School. 


S. 10 Snigdha Sen Gupta 
S. 12 Sova Gupta 
S. 15 Minati Dutta 
S. 72 Ira Roy (Bhattacharjya) 
S. Ill Anjali Chakravarty 
8. H8 Haimabati Chakrabarty 
S. 124 Sheela Sinha 
S. 141 Usharani Majumdar 

5. 148 A rati Niyogi 

6. 151 Sati Rani Sarkar 
S. 154 Nilima Banerjee 
S. 160 Roma Pebi 

S. 170 Indira Sanyal 
S. 174 Bliarati Chakerbutty 
8. 184 Depali Sen 
8. 194 Roma Sen Gupta 
8. 201 Pumirna Das Gupta 
8. 203 Sandhya Ghosh 
S. 205 Prmnoti Ray Chowdliury 
8. 217 Lerna Helen Shenga 


THIRD DIVISION 
(Arianged serially) 

... Krishna gar Women Teachers’ Training School. 

Krishnagar Women Teachers’ Training School. 
... Krishnagar Women Teachers’ Training School. 
Vidyasagar Bani Bhaban. 

United Missionary Training College. 

... San/j Nalini Training College. 

... Sarc/j Nalini Training College. 

... Sarc/j Nalini Training College. 

Sarr/i Nalini Training College. 

... Sarc/j Nalini Training College. 

Saroj Nalini Training (’ollege. 

Sarc/j Nalini Training (’ollege. 

... Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 

... Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 

... Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 

Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 

Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 

Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 

Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 

... Kalimpong Senior Training School. 


H. The undermentioned ex-students who wore allowed 
on the subject noted against names of the candidates in 
the examination: — 


to sit for the Senior Training Examination held in 1961 
which they failed previously, are declared to have passed 


Roll No., name of candidates, Subject 

S. 18 Chhaya Ghosh, Vernacular 
8. 41 Sankari Bhowmik, Theory 
8. 42 Pusparcnu Mukhopadhyay, Methods of Teaching 
8. 75 Jamuna Shaha (Sikdar), Vernacular 
S. 76 Bithika Das, Vernacular 
S. 90 Gouri Roy, Methods of Teaching 
S. 91 Amita Chowdliury, Methods of Teaching 
8. 114 Sheela Dastidar, Nature Study and Hygiene ... 
S. 161 Bina Rani Sarkar, Vernacular 
8. 162 Bijoli Gangopadhyay, Vernacular 
8. 163 B&santi Majumder (nee Som), Vernacular ... 
8 . 164 Rama Rudra, Methods of Teaching 
8. 208 Parul Chakravarty, Theory 
8. 209 Bela Bose, Theory 


and name of Institution irom which appearod. 

Krishnagar Women Teachers’ Training School. 

Brahmc* Training College. 

Brahma Training College. 

Vidyasagar Bani Bhaban 
Vidyasagar Bani Bhaban 
St. Mary’s R. C. Training School. 

St. Mary’s R. C. Training School. 

United Mission© ry Training College. 

Saroj Nalini Training College. 

Saroj Nalini Training College. 

Saroj Nalini Training College. 

Saroj Nalini Training College. 

Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 

Calcutta Women Teachers’ Training School. 

M. BOSE, 

Chiei Inspectress, Women’s Edurati 
West Bengal. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 15, 1962 


51 


fNERAL council and state faculty 
jp AYURVEDIC MEDICINE, WEST BENGAL 

NOTIFICATION 

The 16th December 1961 

1 The undermentioned candidates are declared 
have passed the Final Language (Sanskrit) 
^nations of the Faculty held in November 

(Arranged in order of merit) 

Roll No. Name and Institution 

18, Shukla, Lai Bihary-f. B. Ashtanga Ayurved 
Vidyalaya. 

16, Sen Gupta, Gopal Chandra— Shyamadas 

Vaidyashastrapith Parishad. 

1, Bhakat, Ramesh Chandra — Vaidyak Pathshala. 

17, Shaw, Bijoy Basant— Shyamadas Vaidya- 
shastrapith Parishad. 

Bhattacharyya, Rammoy— Shyamadas Vaidya- 
\ shastrapith Parishad. 

V Manna, Haripada— Vaidyak Pathshala. 

]3,\Ray, Pijush Kanti— J. B. Ashtanga Ayurved 
\ Vidyalaya. 

6, llhastagir, Biswa Ranjan— Shyamadas Vaidya- 
[shastrapith Parishad. 


3, Z)as, Hari Sadhan -J. B. Ashtanga Ayurved 
/ Vidyalaya. 

10; Pahari, Sahadev Chandra— Vaidyak Path- 
shala. 

11, Pahari, Sasanka Sekhar -Vaidyak Pathshala. 

12, Panda, Monoj Kumar- Vaidyak Pathshala. 

4, Das, Paresh Chandra -Vaidyak Pathshala. 

8, Mahapatra, Brojanatha— J. B. Ashtanga 
Ayurved Vidyalaya. 

15, Sawoo, Surendra Nath — J. B. Ashtanga 
Ayurved Vidyalaya. 

16, 7, Khila, Sudhir Chandra — Ayurvidya 

Pratisthan. 

• The undermentioned candidates are declared 
have passed the First Language (Sanskrit) 
minations of the Faculty held in November 


(Arranged in order of merit) 

Roll. No. Name of Institution. 

2, Paria, Subimal — Vaidyak Pathshala. 

2- Paria, Subimal — Vaidyak Pathshala. 
shastrapith Parishad. 

J. C. BASU, Registrar. 


STATE MEDICAL FACULTY OF WEST BENGAL 

Calcutta, the 3rd February 1962. 

I. The undermentioned candidates are declared to 

have passed the Preliminary Examination for 
the Diploma in Pharmacy held in March 1961: 

Pharmacy Training Centre, Jalpaiguri 

Roll No. Names of the candidates 

2 Mai, Ajitkumar. 

4 Manna, Anilchandra. 

II. The undermentioned candidates are declared to 
have passed the Final Examination for the 
Diploma in Pharmacy, held in March 1961: 

Pharmacy Training Centre, Jalpaiguri 

Roll No. Names of the candidates 

2 Banik, Saileschandra. 

3 Bayen, Chandrasekhar. 

4 Bhunia, Bijaykumar. 

8 Maity, Syamapada. 

1 1 Ray, Bijankumar. 

12 Ray, Ranjit. 

13 Saha, Mohinimohan. 

14 Saha, Narayanchandra. 

15 Samanta, Kshitischandra. 

16 Syed Nawab Ali. 

III. The undermentioned candidates are declared to 
have passed the First Membership Examination 
held in April 1961: 

N. R. Sircar Medical College 

Roll No. Names of the candidates 

1 Acharyya, Panchanan. 

2 Chattopadhyay, Bibekananda. 

3 Datta. Asis. 

4 Kanjilal, Tapankumar. 

5 Ray, Ramapada 

Calcutta National Medical Institute 

Roll No. Names of the candidates 

6 Basu, Mahimranjan. 

7 Chakrabarti, Mihirkumar. 

11 S. Wajid Ali. 

R. G. Kar Medical College 

Roll No. Names of the candidates 

Bandyopadhyay, Pratapnarayan. 

1 5 Basu, Tusharkamal. 

Bhattacharyya, Santoshkumar. 

18 Mukhopadhyay, Ajaykumar. 

19 Sardar, Chandicharan. 

IV. The undermentioned candidates are declared to 
have passed the Final Membership Examination 
held in April 1961: 

Calcutta National Medical Institute 


Roll No. 


Roll No. 
10 

17 

18 
19 


Name of the candidate 
Bandyopadhyay, Nayanranjan. 
R. G. Kar Medical College 
Names of the candidates 
Bandyopadhyay, Ajitkumar. 
Mukhopadhyay, Patitpaban. 
Nandi, Mahadeb. 

Ray, Arunkumar. 


Calcutta: 

The 3rd February 1962. 


S. K. GHOSH, Secy. 



52 


THE CAGCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 15, 1962 



STATE COUNCIL FOR EN0INEERIN6 AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION, WEST BENQAL 

NOTIFI CATION 


Dated Calcutta, the 30th September 1061. 

The following candidates are declared to have passed the Licentiate in Mining Engineering Examination held in July, I9flp^ 


Serial 

No. 

Roll Xo. 

Xanv- of the candidates 



Division 

or 

Class 

Name of the 
Institution 

1 

L 

Kudlur Ranjan Datta 




J 

Asansol Polytechnic, 
post office ARansol, 
Burdwan. 

2 

2 

Jihanamla Singha Chowdhurv 




I 

Ditto 

3 

3 

Ss «*d Mohammed Mohsin 




I 

Ditto 

4 

4 

Dolmhreta Clmtak 




I 

Ditto 

5 

0 

Sushil Kumar Manila 1 




I 

Ditto 

6 

7 

Krishna Lai Sun 




I 

Ditto 

7 

8 

Md. Jalmral Islam 




1 

Ditto 

8 

10 

►Samarendra Singlm Deb 




I 

Ditto 

9 

11 

Ishwari Prasad Sinlia 




I 

Ditto 

10 

16 

Biral Bhranl i Datta 




I 

Ditto 

11 

18 

Mural i Mohan Ray 




1 

Ditto 

12 

20 

Nisith Ranjan l*hatt-aeliar>a 




1 

Ditto 

13 

22 

Dipak Kumar Mukhopadhyay 




1 

Ditto 

14 

28 

Atiiruddha Shonie 




I 

Ditto 

15 

5 

Pradyot Kant a Chakravorty 




11 

Ditto 

16 

9 

Sujit Kumar Chattopadhyuy 




11 

Ditto 

17 

12 

Pham Bliusan Chntttvrjee 




II 

Ditto 

18 

13 

RibhiH i Ranjan Chanda 




II 

Ditto 

19 

14 

Dilip .Kumar Banerjt?e 




II 

Ditto 

20 

15 

Karuna Moy Chakraborty . . 




1J 

Ditto 

21 

17 

Bansi Badan Ray 




J1 

Ditto 

22 

19 

Bijoy Krishna Bose 




11 

Dil to 

23 

21 

Pradip Kuma r Bose 




II 

Ditto 

24 

23 

Aloke Mudhab Cungopadhyay 




II 

Ditto 

25 

26 

Sridhar Chandra Sen Cupta 




II 

Ditto 

26 

29 

Buaudeb Bhattaeharya 




11 

Ditto 

27 

30 

Jyotirmay Chosh 




II 

Ditto 

28 

31 

Kalyan Kumar Biswas 




II 

Ditto 


A. C. SEX, Seoy. 


DIRECTORATE OF BOILERS, WEST BENGAL. 

Dated the 7th February 1962 

The following candidates have been declared to 
have passed in the Boiler Operation Engineers’ 
Examination, held in January 1962. 

Roll No., name and address 

1. Shri Ramgopal Dhar, F20 Anandapuri, post 
office Barrackpur, 24-Parganas. 

2. Shri Ananda Mohan Basak, 34 Narsingh 
Avenue, Calcutta-28. 

6. Shri Dipak Kumar Banerjee, Boscpara Lane, 
post office Gondulpara, Chandernagore, Hooghly. 

7. Shri Baiswanar Biswas, Qr. No. DN/36, post 
office Durgapur Coke Oven-2, district Burdwan. 

8. Shri Sunil Banerjee, P160/1, Block ‘G\ New 
Alipore, Calcutta-33. 

10. Shri Ananda Mohan Basu, Plot No. 8, Block 
‘A’, New Alipore, Calcutta-27. 


13. Shri Vishnu Kumar Sharma, C/o. Messrs 
Orient Paper Mills Ltd., post office Brajrajnagar, dis- 
trict Sambalpore, Orissa. 

17. Shri A. R. Raghunathan, C/o. Bareilv Elec- 
trict Supply Co. Ltd., Bareily, U. P. 

23. Shri Manindra Nath Sengupta, C/o. Qr. N * 
CN-18, Durgapur-2, district Burdwan. 

30. Shri Nitish Chandra Brahma, C/o. Messrs 
Birla Jute Mfg. Co. Ltd., post office Birlapur, 24- 
Parganas. 

3>. Shri Mahadeb Kumar Sarkar, 33/6 Kankul: 3 . 
Road, Calcutta-19. 

36. Shri Samir Kumar Sanyal, C/o Messrs. Indian 
Iron & Steel Ltd., P.E. Department (Iron Section!. 
Burnpur, district Burdwaa 

S. C. ROY. 

Chairman, Board of Examiners 


I#J 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 15, 1962 


53 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 

BENGAL ENGINEERING COLLEGE 

P.O. Botanic Garden, Howrah 

THE Bengal Engineering College will open next 
session on July 2, 1962. The College is a residential 
one and offers courses for the B.E. Degree Examina- 
tion of the Calcutta University in Civil, Mechanical, 
Electrical, Metallurgical, Mining and Tele-communi- 
cation Engineering and also for the Degree in 
Architecture. Admission will be granted on the 
results of an admission test consisting of a written 
examination for all candidates to be conducted bv 
the "West Bengal Board of Examination for Admis- 
sion to Engineering Colleges’’ as per dates given 
below which will be followed by a medical trst and 
viva-voce test. Applications must be made in the 
prescribed form with a crossed Indian Postal Order 
showing deposit of Rs. 12 (Rs. 6 being the registra- 
tion fee payable to the Board plus Rs. 6 payable to 
each College to which admission is sought) pavable 
io the “West Bengal Board of Examination for admis- 
sion to Engineering Colleges” and should reach the 
Mce of the Board, c/o Bengal Engineering Collect 

u a .o« tan TK Ga ^ e , , l’ Howrah ’ on or b ef°re April 
J8, j%2. The College prospectus and requisite 
application forms may be obtained from the college 

' , ?f Ce ^ ,thcr i’ erSOna , lly or sending an unstamped 
self-addressed envelope of 10" X 4}" size on and 
from 26th March 1962. A number of scholarships 
and stipends will be awarded to meritorious 
students on the results of the Admission Test. 
Applications for the Five-year integrated degree 
course under the new regulations of the Calcutta 
University will be entertained from candidates who 
avc either passed or will appear this year in the 


Pre-Umversity Examination of the Calcutta Uni- 
verstty or the Higher Secondary Examination t h e 

rS' f S c ream ,° r the Tech " ical stream of the 

Board of Secondary Education, West Bengal, with 

valenr CS ’ ^ lem, ® tr - v . and Mathematics or its equi- 
valent. The selection of the candidates who have 
appeared in either of these qualifying examinations 
will however be subject to their passing these exami 

I n 9 vears nf IS ^ , Candidates must ^ot be “r 
19 years of age on January 1, 1962. The age limit 

vT of thl aX r UP t0 21 ycars with the Prior appro! 
val of the Government m the case of deserving 

classev ntS r| be ° n8 ' nS t0 the educationally backward 
classes and communities. Further details regarding 
admission, number of seats in different branches’ 

Dates of Admission Test 

Monday, May 21, 1962— 

10 dates)" * P ' m ' Mathematics (for all candi- 

3 P 'wlv 5 “ ',? nglish Composition and Precis 

Writing (for all candidates). 

Tuesday, May 22, 1962— 

l-nTnm l l ’’^"-Physics (for all candidates). 

I2 3 ia,es“ 2 °° Chemistry a „ 

Wednesday, May 23, 1962— 

10 t0 1 p ' m , Free hand Drawing (Archi- 
tecture candidates only). 



Hefl^iered No. C207 


No. 12 of m2 






CAITRA 1 ] 

THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 1962 


I SARA 1884 


CONTENTS: 

Page. 



State Statistical Bureau — Coat of living indexes. 
Calcutta, and wholesale pries index 

for the week ending the 10th Maroh 
1902 

85—86 


SUPPLEMENT -Official Papers 


luuaNo.aee state statistical bureau, west benoal 

TABLE I 

Cost of llvlne indexes, Calcutta and wholesale price index (week ending 10 th March 19 S 2 ) 

All-India wholesale 

Cost of living iiulox — Bane ; Novomber, 1950. price index*. 


_ . -A- , „ . - _ - - . , _ .-A. 


Period. 

r ~ — — 


Expendnur* level (in Re.) 



Base. 

1952*53. 

Converted 

with 

November 


1—100 


Ufl — -Of. 

201 — 

-350 








1950 as 
ba*n. 


All 

Food 

All Foivt 

All 

Pood. 



items 


• tt-tOlR 

items- 




it) 

m 

»3) 

(41 (5) 

<«) 

ri) 

(**> 


W4 January 

93*9 

88*8 

94*1 89*4 

94* 1 

38*0 



April 

95*2 

90*4 

06*6 90*1 

95*3 

90*1 



JuIt 

94*0 

99*4 

94*4 ww» 

94*7 

*9*6 



Onto her 

96*3 

91 *0 

95-3 91-4 

96*6 

91*3 




0*66 January 

•0*7 

84*7 

91*1 

84*4 

91*7 

84*6 

•• 

•• 

Apnl 

89*9 

83*0 

90*t> 

83*7 

91*2 

84*0 

88*9 


July 

61*1 

86*0 

9L*fl 

85*8 

92*0 

86*8 

92*9 

80*0 

October 

9»«7 

89* T 

93*0 

89*4 

94*0 

88*0 

90*0 

•S3*0 


1^50 lan nary 

90*9 

84*8 

»!•<> 

84*u 

91*2 

83*7 

95*8 

88* t 

April 

95*2 

91*6 

04*8 

90*4 

94*0 

89*6 

100*0 

4J.0 

July 

99*6 

98*0 

98*7 

00*3 

97*8 

94*7 

103*5 

05*8 

October 

102*4 

101*3 

100*7 

98*0 

99*4 

90*9 

100*7 

98*8 


Heviaed eerw* (Rase : 1951! *53 1 end the coi eepondmg converter serieb* 


86 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 22, 1962 


Period. 


Coal of living index — Baaa i November, 

-A 

1050. 


All- India 

price iudci*. 





Expenditure level (in Ra.) 



Baae, 

1052 53. 

Convert*; 

with 

Ntwnab^ 
19-V' 44 

1 — 100 


101 — SOO 

A 

201- 

-960 


t — * — 

All 

Food. 

t 

All 

Food. 

r All 

Food. 


baae. 


item*. 

item*. 


items. 




(i) 

(2) 

(3) 

«0 

(») 

w 

(7) 

(8) 

(») 

1057 January 

08 *4 

04*6 

07*0 

01-0 

06 2 

00-3 

107 -3 

09-4 

April 

100*5 

08*0 

08-9 

95-5 

07 *0 

03-6 

106 -8 

98 -i 

July 

106*0 

105-8 

104*1 

108*0 

102-7 

100-7 

111*0 

103-8 

October «*• 

107*6 

107-0 

105*7 

104-0 

104*0 

102*3 

108 -9 

100-3 

1058 January 

105 0 

101 -8 

108 -1 

98-1 

101 -8 

06-4 

106-0 

98-4 

April 

106*0 

106-1 

104 -4 

100 -2 

109*2 

07 -0 

107-4 

W-6 

July • 

100-4 

107*6 

107 -0 

104-0 

106*7 

102-6 

114 -7 

mi 

October 

US'S 

114*8 

111*2 

118-3 

100*6 

106*5 

116*2 

107 4 

1050 January 

108*5 

07 *2 

102 9 

05-5 

102 -7 

04*6 

112 *8 

104-0 

April 

July 

105-8 

100*0 

106*1 

00-4 

104 *6 

08*2 

111-9 

103-6 

110-4 

108 -S 

100 -2 

106-1 

108*1 

104 -0 

116-8 

108 2 

October 

114-6 

116-0 

118-0 

113-4 

111 -0 

111*0 

119-3 

110 i 

1050 .January 

110 4 

108 8 

108 8 

105 -3 

107 *6 

101 *2 

118-8 

110 n 

April 

110*6 

108 *0 

108 -9 

105 2 

107 9 

103 *3 

190 6 

1)1 6 

July 

114*4 

118-0 

112-8 

in -e 

111*6 

100 •« 

m 7 

115 5 

October 

114*4 

118 *5 

111 -2 

111-8 

112 -2 

110 *4 

126 8 

117-0 

1061 January 

100-7 

105 *0 

108-7 

103 -2 

108*4 

102 *3 

125*5 

116*3 

February 

no -6 

106*1 

100-5 

104 -8 

109 *0 

103 *3 

126-7 

117-3 

March 

110*9 

106*1 

100 -9 

104 *6 

100 *5 

103 9 

127*6 

118-1 

April 

112-8 

108-2 

111-4 

107-2 

111-0 

106-6 

126-8 

116-6 

May 

112-1 

107-* 

111-1 

107*<» 

111-0 

106-6 

126 * i 

ua-o 

June 

118*7 

110-1 

112-7 

100*1 

112*1 

108*4 

125-0 

116*6 

•»uly 

116*2 

114-1 

115*1 

1 13* V 

114-2 

118? 

128-7 

110*1' 

Augur 

117-0 

116-8 

116*8 

115 7 

115-6 

114 

127-4 

118-0 

September 

118-0 

116-4 

116-6 

115-2 

115-4 

113*8 

124-6 

115*4 

(Jetober 

119-0 

110-7 

118*2 

110-2 

116*0 

110-7 

124-4 

in* 

November 

120 -3 

120-4 

118-4 

1181 

116-0 

116*6 

124*3 

115 -1 

December 

« 

117-0 

114-6 

116-3 

112- 

114*1 

111-1 

122-0 

J1V* 

Week ending 









10-2.62 

114-0 

100-7 

112-7 

108-0 

112-1 

107*1 

124-0 

116 4 

17-2-62 

114*7 

110*8 

113-1 

108*3 

112*4 

107-2 



24A62 

114-1 

100-4 

112-5 

107-4 

111-9 

106-4 

•• 


3*3*62 • ■ 

114-3 

109* 8 

112-6 

107-8 

112*1 

100-6 



10.3*62 

J 15*0 

111*1 

113-5 

109-2 

112*8 

108-2 




•Revised car 

iaa (Baae 

: 1062-58) and 

the eonuaponding converted aerie*. 




Printed and published by Che Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at the Weal Bengal Government Press, Alipore. 



xggisttred No. C20 7 



(Ealrutla 



(ferttr 


CAITRA 1 ] 


THURSDAY, MARCH 2 2, WHM 


(SARA 1 884 


PART lA~*-<)rders and Notifications of the Government of India; Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India; and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 
and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India’* are only 
i epubiished. 


DELHi ADMIN. STRATI ON, DEI Hi 
NOTIFICATION 

No. F-37/62-C. — 22nd February 1962.— 

vVhcreas the Chief Commissioner, Delhi, is 
satisfied that the book without title in Urdu 
published by Saeed, House No. 1368, Gali Zakirya, 
Phatak Habash Khan, Delhi, and printed at Khanna 
Litho Press, Delhi, contains matters which is deli- 
berately and maliciously intended to outrage the reli- 
g.ous feelings of the Muslims of India by insulting 
their religious beliefs and the publication of which is 
punishable under section 295 A of the Indian Penal 
Code (Act XLV of 1860); 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
bv section 99A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 
i 898 (Act V of 1898), the Chief Commissioner, Delhi, 
hereby declares to be forfeited to Government eve 

T'v of the said book and all other documents con- 
ainmg copies, reprints and translations of or extracts 
from the said book. 

By order, 

K.M. L. GUPTA. Under Secy. (Home). 


GOVERNMENT OF BIHAR 
Political (Special) Department 
NOTIFICATION 
Patna, the 15th February 1962. 

No. A/Prs.Ste-101 /62-C-1796-C. — Whereas, it 
Wears to the Governor of Bihar that the book in 
Hindi, entitled “Chin-Ki-Jhalak“ published from 
foreign Language Publications, Peking 1958, con- 
tains two maps on the inner cover of the book 
Wnch wrongly show practically the whole of 
rifFA, and portions of Jammu and Kashmir, 
Himachal Pradesh, U.P. and Bhutan, as part of 


China, which amounts to questioning the territorial 
integrity or frontiers of India in a manner which 
is likely to be prejudicial to the interests oj the 
safety or security of India, the publication oi whiJi 
is punishable under section 2 of the Criminal Law 
Amendment Act, 1961 (Central Act 23 of 1961); 

Now, therefore, in exercise ol the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (1) of section 4 ol the said 
Act, the Governor of Bihar hereby declares every 
copy of the aforesaid book and all other documents 
containing copies, reprints or translation of or 
extracts from the said book to be forfeited to the 
Government. 

By order of the Governor of Bihar, 
M. SINHA, Dy. Sec> 

MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

NOTIFICATION 

New Delhi, the 22nd January 1962. 

The Central Government, having considered, m 
consultation with the Forward Markets Commis- 
sion, the application for renewal of recognition 
made under section 5 of the Forward Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1952 (74 ol 1952), by the Calcutta 
Wheat and Seeds Association, Calcutta, apd being 
satisfied that it would be in the interest ol the 
trade and also in the public interest so to do, 
hereby grants, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 6 of the said Act, recognition to the k di l 
Association lor *urther period of one year endin'’ 
30th January I ‘>63 in respect of forward contracts 
in linseed in the City of Calcutta. 

2. The recognition hereby granted is subject to 
the condition tint the said Association shall comply 
with such directions as may from time to ome be 
given by the Forward Markets Commission. 

i No. 3T 1 )-T MP FMC >9. 

T S. KUNCHITHANATMAM, Undei Seev 



^ t ggistered No. C207 



(ftalnttta 





(fentr 


CAITHA 1 ] 


THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 1962 


| 8 AKA 1884 


PART IB.— -Educational Notices 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 

BENGAL ENGINEERING COLLEGE 

P.O. Botanic Garden, Howrah 

THE Bengal Engineering College will open next 
session on july 2, 1962. The College is a residential 
one and otters courses tor the B.E. Degree Examina- 
tion ot the Calcutta University m Civil, Mechanical, 
Electrical, Metallurgical, Mining t ,nu ) ele-^ommuai- 
cation Engineering and also foi the Degree in 
Aiehitecture. Admission will be granted on the 
results ot an admission test consisting of a written 
examination for all candidates to be conducted by 
the ‘'West Bengal Board of Examination or Admis- 
sion to Engineering Colleges" as per dates given 
below which will be followed by a medical tisi and 
viva-voce test. Applications must be made in ttm 
prescribed form with a crossed Indian Postal Order 
showing deposit ol Rs. 12 ;Rs. 6 being the registra- 
tion fee payable to the Board plus Rs. 6 payable to 
each College to which admission is sought) payable 
to the “West Bengal Boaid of Examination for admis- 
sion to Engineering Colleges” and should each t!m 
Office of the Board, c/o Bengal Engineering College. 
PO. Botanic Garden, Howrah, on or belore April 
18, 1962. The College prospectus and requisite 
application forms may be obtained from the college 
°flice either personally or by sending an unstamped 
self-addressed envelope of 10"x4$" size on and 
from 26th March 1962. A number of scholarships 
and stipends will be awarded to meritorious 
students, on the results of the Admission Test. 
Applications for the Five-year integrated degree 
course under the new regulations of the Calcutta 
University will be entertained from candidates v»ho 
nave either passed or will appear this year in the 


Pie- University Examination of the Calcutta Uni- 
versity or the Higher Secondary Examination in the 
Science stream or the Technical stream of the 
Board ol Secondary Education, West Bengal, with 
Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics or its equi- 
valent. The selection of the candidates who have 
appeared in either of these qualifying examinations* 
will however be subject to their passing these exami- 
nations this year. Candidates must not be over 
19 years of age on January 1, 1962. The age limit 
may be relaxed up to 21 years with the prior appro- 
val of the Government in the case of deserving 
applicants belonging to the educationally backward 
classes and communities. Further details regarding 
admission, number of seats in different branches, 
examination syllabus, programme, etc. are given in 
the prospectus. 

Dates of Admission Test 

Monday, May 21, 1962 - 

10 a.m. to 1 p.m.- Mathematics (for all candi- 
dates). 

3 p.m. to 5 p.m. — English Composition and Precis 
Writing (for all candidates). 

Tuesday, May 22, 1962 — 

10 a.m. to 12 noon- -Physics (for all candidates). 
12-30 p.m. to 2-30 p.m. — Chemistry (for all 
candidates). 

Wednesday, May 23, 1962 — 

10 a.m. to 1 p.m. — Free hand Drawing (Archi 
tecture candidates only). 



Registered No. C207 


No. 13 of 1962 



Calcutta 





(tecttc 


CAITRA 8 ] 

THURSDAY, MARCH 29, 1962 


l SARA 1884 


CONTENTS : 

Calcutta Improvement Trust — .Notioea 

87 8h 



SUPPLEMENT — Official Papers 


I HU BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR THE IMPROVE- 
MENT OF CALCUTTA 

Notice under section 43 of the Calcutta Improviment 
Act, 1911 (Bengal Act V of 1911) 

SCHEME NO. LXXII1 (AREA BETWEEN PARK 
CIRCUS AND LINTON STREET) 

J I is hereby notified under section 43 of the Calcutta 
Improvement Act, 1911, that a General Improvement 
Scheme (to be known as Scheme No. LXXIII) for the 
put pose of developing the area between Park Circus 
and Linton Street by providing building sites, 
lemedving defective ventilation, creating new or 
impiovmg existing means of communication and 
facilities lor traffic, affording better facilities for eon- 
sen ancy and rehousing bustce-dwellers likely to be 
displaced, has been framed by the Board of Trustees 
loi l he Improvement of Calcutta m the above area 
within Wards Nos. 55 and 37 of the Corporation ol 
( alcutta. 

(2) The boundary of the area compnsed in the 
•Uiemc, shown within red verge on plan, is .is 
Allows; 


this point running westwards in a straight line 
to the south-western corner of premises No. 19], 
Park Street. 

On the West: From this point running noi th- 
westwards in a straight line to the south-wcstei n 
coniei of premises Nos. 26A, B and C, North 
Range; from this point running northwards in a 
straight line to the starting point. 

(3) Further particulars of the scheme, a plan show- 
ing the scheme area and a statement of the lands 
proposed for acquisition and for levy of betterment 
fee may be inspected at the office of the Trust at 

10 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, between th** hours 

1 1 a. m. and 3 p.m. on weekdays and between hours 
1 I a. m. and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 

Copies will be available on payment o( the Mint- 
ing lees: 

Particulars and othci informal ion ol the sclienr* 
Re. 0.25 nP. 

Statement of lands proposed foi acquisition oi 
lor levy of betterment Icc Re. 0.25 riP. 


On the North: Starting from the north-western 
corner of premises No. 55A, Bcniapukui Road, 
winning eastwards in a straight line to the no«th- 
eastern corner of plot No. 35, C.I.T. Scheme 
No. XLIX. 

On the East: From this point running south- 
wards m a straight line to south-eastern corner, 
()1 plot No. 27, C.I.T. Scheme XLIX; from this 
point running south-westwards in a straight line 
to the south-eastern corner of premises No. 3 3C, 
Corachand Road; from this point running south- 
westwards in a straight line to the south-eastern 
corner of plot No. 6, C. I. T. Scheme No. XXXV. 


Plan of the scheme area Rc. J .00 nP 

(4) Objections to the Scheme will be recefved up to 
2nd July 1962. 

(5) Under section 6A of the Land Acquisition 
Act, 1894, as introduced b\ the Schedule to <hc 
Calcutta Improvement Act. 1911,. as amended b. ihe 
West Bengal Act XXXII of 1955, the publication of 
this notice shall have the same effect as the publua- 
(ion of notification under section 1 of the band 
Acquisition Act, 1891. 

K. SEN. 


wards in a straight line to the southern cornet . Calcutta; 

01 remises No. 1 Surhawardy Avenue; Lom * Dated the 16th March 1962. 


Chairman. 


88 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CA1/TTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 
NOTICE 

Calcutta, the 5th March 1962. 

Notice is hereby given under section 47(3) of the 
Calcutta Improvement Act, 1911, that the Board of 
Trustees for the Improvement of Calcutta have, 
applied to the State Government for sanction to the 
Improvement Scheme No. LXXXII (Shy am Bose 
Road, Chetla) which was first published in the 
“Calcutta Gazette” and in local newspapers on the 
6th July 1961. 


K. SEN, Chairman. 


■< mm — ■ m i .. 

Printed and publitbed by the Superintendent. Government Printing. ’West Bengal 
at the *Weht Bengal Go\ eminent Prens, AIipor«. 


mistered No. C 207 



Olalnttta 





ITl! A S ] 


THURSDAY, MARCH ?% I %2 


f SAKA ISM 


PART IB— 'Educational Notices 


UNIVERSITY OK CALCUTTA 


RESULTS OF THE I.A. EXAMINATION, 1960 

Hers by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Calcutta 

".oli.lto I I n 0 so the 21st f i Ills HMiU. 

1. ' !,' wiiii** 1 1114*11 1 i m lod ramlula i o- an 

|>> Hi- ! mi i mi**.! i u t «*■ t ion 

Ii p ! 1 " >■ i 


i |o< l:i r < < 1 1 n 1 1 : i v o 
m \ l t - held im 


* l • ink pi e 1 1 \ < * 1 1 to the name ol a ( aiidnlnte 
t 1 -I t In* ol sill* ha*- obtained lint toss ill, til tlllli 
* If app 1 1 *oa I o nuiiiljoi ol nuiks ;i tul tin* to! lei 
1 I O tli* n.imo oi a eandnlate lmlnate. oi 

*''■4 in* oi s[h ha - obtained not less Ilian ioui- 
1 tin* inaik.*- in t ho siihiect oi siihiorts ) 

"ii 11 " ahhn-v i.it ions have horn used in this 


P'. 

111 !* 

k. . 

% 

n 

in* - 1 

• \ twin ate-. \i nhie. 

I ' :t ^ I mill .ii os V 1 1 oi na 1 1 \ ( Rapei in A s^.i niexo 
1 }' i ii* i i ( a t os \!toniati\< papei m Ikiipali 
j ,l! Uiw Indn.itts V ltorna t ix e papoi in Hindi 
( * I m 1 1 1 a t o s Attorn, it i\ o papoi m I idu 

( \ m 11 I iida a t o \ n t hi opolop \ . 

I j'"' t H<Ht .i f « - lint.Ul>. 

^ | Imwii .«to- ( ’heniM 1 v. 

i ‘ In-ioatos ( oniimi t lal \rithniolio and Klenn-ntH 
I Itonk Iv oepl |]p _ 

| *’ 1,l '* , aios ( ommorc ial (leupinphv. 

[ ''"I'MIWS (’ 

- 1 Into , 

' In 


IV K\s. 

Knphsh. 


i 1 " 111 "es I'doiioh 


jl U'H-iies Ceopraphy . 


H i... 


: 'li*s 1 1 ist oi y . 


U I 


>i'iH a i os Lopir. 


u . " Latin, 

p " I' alo- Mat honia Lie s. 

• j i I’l'ismn 

1 1 , ' -Ill's I*,,!,. 

If. i I * l 'l H -- 1 <‘s ISvcholof/v. 
t *' 1 "" ' (TMilt ulai . 


FIRST DIVISION 


* < j , . 1 'V kindred arranped in oidoi nt moiit) 

\ T ^ 1 aindiha (MCa), Holm Rainhn !ina Mis, -ion 
•mhr. 

^Wwoidhurp S\\ a],n;i <SM>. Ladv Brabmune Col- 

*nTT rsL - 


w> * Hlia 1 1 ,i< hoi \ \ a , Mihiiianian « s i '-an. kill Colbm* 

It I > ; i - ('handia-.olxh.it ( ( 'a i . Ik Ini K.nnkf i.Jm.i Mission 
Y id x a niand 1 1 

in Rax, Imliia <sMi l,ad\ Rt.ibomiio Cullope. 

11 Maliiu ( S ) l.adx Hiahoinn* Coihpo 

12 *( 'li.ikl.ih.il t i, IS.ii.ilktllli.it, Ik Ini Uainkll liila Mission 

Yid> aniaiidii . 

Id Chosli "Malax (<Mi, Rimnhmx (ollopo 
i 1 M n k liopad h x a x Haiidana Ik tlmn* ( oil* **o 

Id M n/./.a in in 1 1 Ahlin-d h-my.io i(a>, S| \axioi\s Col 
lo;-o 

l(> ( ha k i a ha i 1 1 I j* do i n 1 1 .u ha m 1 1 a , \ a bad u i p \ id \ a 

.sap. ii ( ollepe. 

I” Mitia ’I n,ha i k.ani i lk*lui I’amki isliim Mission 
\ id x aniandii . 

I w M nkhop.nlhx ax liadal I 'i i *- id< in . (*»|lopo. 

r> ( 'tiat topadli X ax , s\amil i M i. Ik tin Hanikii-hna 

Mkwuii \ id \ ,i ina nd 1 1 

2<) ( 'handbill i laiaknalh, Ikltn Rainkii.hiia Mi -mn 

\ id x a ni a ndii 

d I IS nk h -.ana Said I.oimo llnii < 

v d i 1 \ a I hi ml i a k n in. i : Hal i it (hot (nlh-po 

-i ( dial I opai I h \ a x SnMa l.idx Hiahotilno (’*dl»*p,o 

d I I’.n in l*u lip. iram lloui 1 1 ■ (.nl* ( nllop* 

'2^ Ha ai (’h in.lana Lo!x Hi.dioiiim (oll«p< 

H h a t t a i h a i x \ a ( - o | * i k a i t n | . i r i I »< 1 1 n I { a n i k ii d i n a 

AI i - - ion \ nix a ma m 1 1 1 * 

S sania|dai , \* iniuian • t a , \ i \ o i ' ( 'oh pe 

LN ( 'll. • I I opadh \ a \ s.inrn 'I* h Hr- i-h'in \ ( nllopo 
2d Rax \ n i ma non < oil. p.iato -I no. nt (Roll Cal K 

\o r.ii) 

dU ( liat t ojj.nl li \ a x \n li.iiu l.adx Ri.jImhiiii' (ollopo 
dl Hha 1 1 a« ha i x x a sniililinnai Ii, Kn-hnapai Collopo 

dd Ha n I x opad h x a x . Hli.it .if i l.adx I'oahomno Colb-po 

l).ot i, Nainlita Ik tlinm* ( .dlo*.** 


\ • • a i Ci hi M a ha I a ja Hu 

I. I * I * * - I < 1* in X Collo<m 


Ml (ian-.mpadhx ax . Maiinlipa. 

Hikiarn ('ollopo 
M nkhop.nlhx a V ".n n d 1- n m a 

MC- Dal la, Asok Mniliapoio ( i.|h*w< 

Alitia. lx r i dni,i , l.adx Hiahoiiino ( oflop<- 
Rax, Aiaknamla l.adx Hiahomm ( oil* ** 

d!» Rax Suhiiknin.il. Holm Rand ii lau Mi 
ma ndir. 

•1!) Hha 1 1 .n dial \ x a , "-ii -.a n t a hit n hail linplih 

Collopo 

( dial topadhx ax Hiatona, Kn nnapai \\ onion' . ( ol- 
io- p*. 

12 Roms Dai.i Mlpadvxala, m m • - I j . » i -■ 1 > .-dmlout, St. 
Xa\ ioi Colh*po. 

’ ’ rw ■ Braluiawuaui%. . 


ion \ id>a 
M*(hsiii 






Ajitkiimw*. Vid^asagar College. 
ge, +» 1 -Plvsulenpy lege. 

Muly HrnMutue College*, 

toaadfcyay, Siwit, CoUegoi / 


58 


ME CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


[Part j 


49 Bhnttarhary.va, Jngajyoti, Cltarpata Raja Peary 
Alohan College. 

Gangopadhyay, Asutosh, Relur Hamki ishna Mission 
VidyainamJir. 

Soiii, Alanikuntaln, Lady Riabourne College. 

52 Kai , Jasobanta, Piesidemy College. 

Saroju Rumahadi an . Loieto House. 

54 Dharu, Rumehundi a (Ca), r raniluk Tamrulipta Mha- 
vidy alaya. 

Ghosh, Pratnua, ( 'handernngoi e College. 

Sen^upla, Rina, Lady Rrahonrne College. 

57 Mukhopadh vay , Rimalkumar, CHarpara Raja Peary 

Mohan College. 

58 Chattopadhyay, Krishna, Lady Rrubourno College. 
Santra, Mina, Lady Riabourne College. 

GO G ango pad by ay , Alnnalkanti (S), Presidency College. 

Itauhiitulhuri, Maui, Lad.v Bra bourne College. 

02 Cliakiahai ti, J)ij»ali. lion llooghly lit ahmananda 
Kesahehandra ( 'ollege. 

Chaki aharii, Kani.dkrishna, Surendraiiat h (-ollege. 
Chuudhuri, Jayanlaknniar, Piesideney (College. 

(>5 Ray, Rirenkisoi, Seth Anandrani daipnna (’ollege. 

66 Dalta, Sipra, Lady Rrahonrne College. 

G7 Chattopadhyay, Anjali, Rethune College. 

G8 Riswas, Rid vannr ay an (M), Basil hat. College. 

Sen, Suhir (S), Presidency College. 

70 Giihamyogi , Dehalnata, Relur Ranikrishna Mission 
Vidyatnandir. 

Kusari, Karaln, Lady Rrahonrne (’ollege. 

Ken ray, Anita, Bindwati Maharajadhiraj Ldayehand 
Women’s College. 

73 Alajumdar, Alula, Kerhampnte (Jills' College. 

Sen, KaJvaii. Piesideney College. 

75 Dalta, Sabyaxaehi, Asniisol Knuwarilnl Rhalotia 
(College. 

70 J)as, Saiulvvipkmnar, Piesideney College. 

Nag, Mohanlal, Ramganj 'I’m enideln Rhalotia Col- 
leg<>. 

Pal, Alaya, Lady Rrahonrne (’ollege 
79 .Biswas, Tupankumnr, Piesideney College. 

Chattopadhyay, Annapurna, Rarraekpur Rastraguru 
Surendranath College. 

Chattopadhyay, Sohha, llowrali Girls’ College. 

82 Lakshmun Singh Dhupia, St. Xawer’s Cnllege. 

llsha Jyengar, Loreto House. 

84 Adlukari, Ushurani, Rerhampore Girls’ College. 
Riswas, Arnbinda, Piesideney College. 

86 Gangopadhyay, Renuka, Lady Riahoiime College 

87 Sengupta, liana, Asntosh (’ollege. 

88 Sen ray, Malalnka, Lady Rrahonrne (’ollege. 

89 Mandai, Asokkuinai . l luhoiia College. 

Som, Alpana, Alipuiduar (’ollege. 

91 (’hattopadhyay, Tirthankar (S), Presidency (■ollege. 
Santa Adya, Loreto House. 

Sengupta, Chit rarekha, L.uly Rrahonrne ('ollege. 

94 Das, Rama, How rail (Jills’ College. 

95 Basil, Supriya, Lady Rrahonrne College. 

(’hakraha? ti, Ralaicliamlra, Presidency (’ollege. 

97 Sheila Shiva Rao, Loieto House. 

98 Mitra, Chhanda, Asntosh College lor Women. 

JVrvesi Dandiwala, non-rollegiate stmlent, St 

Aaorr’s (’ollege. 

100 Bhatlachaiyy a, Ragalapada. Syaiiisundar (’ollege 
De, Snbhashehandi a, Piesideney (’ollege. 

R)2 Ahdul Karim Kamlani. St. Xavier's (’ollege. 

Basil, Jayasn, Rankin a (’hiistian (’ollege. 

Rhat taehary ya, Arunahlia. Seiampore College. 

J05 Pandyopadhy ay , Prandhan, liouinh Naiasinha Dutt 
College. 

llajra, Sandipkumar, Relur Ramkiishna Mission 
Vidyamandir. 

A1 ukhopadhya.v, Jharna, Lady Rrahonrne College. 
108 Gnlia, Karaln, Gokhale Memorial (Jills’ College. 
Konar, Suhrata, P reside nry ('ollege. 

Nandi, Rijanhihari, Rasirhat (’ollege. 

Ill Chakrabnrti, Rliupai, Suiendranath (’ollege. 

Chattopadhyay, Sankar, Raliughat (‘ollege. 

115 Randyopadhyay , Manju, Rai rack pu i Rastr.igwiu 

Surendranath ( Jollege. 

Sen, Rhaskar, Presidency College. 

Sinha, Anita, Rethune College, 
lit; Rhat tachaiyya, Adityakumur. Presidency College. 

117 Randyopadhyay, Asishkumar, Piesideney College. 

Gnrain, Sihsankar, Ban kina Christian College. 

319 Biswas, Sudhansusekhar, Relur Ranikrishna Mission 
Yidy umamlir. 

120 Chattopadhyay, Gita, Lady Brahouine College. 

Sen, Ratim, Gokhale Memorial Girls’ College. 
Sengupta, Gitasrihandana, Lady Rrahonrne Colh'ge. 

123 Md. Ratatullah, Rerhampore Knshnath College. 

124 Bhaduri, Pratinia, Howrah Girls’ (’ollege. 

De, Dulalkrishna, Serampuge College. 

126 Chattopadhyay, Mrinalkanti, non-collegiate student, 
Charuchandra College. 

Senrayehaudhuri, Asimkumar (Ca) , Barisha Viveka- 
nanda College. 

Sita Mehta, uon-collegiato student (Roll Cal. F.N. 


129 


132 


136 


111 

l 13 


1 19 


153 


1 55 


159 


163 


167 

169 

171 

172 

171 

175 


179 


187 


192 


197 


Das. Alokmaln, Rethune 
Mahalur Lai Agai walla. 
(Allege. 


( 'ollege. 

Jjdp.iij'jiri An.imlj r), j 


Mapimdai , Gam i (Mm. (Jlmdil (Mu)) \ i L, t ■ , , , | ( 
lege <i| 1 1 nine and Social St iciiee. 

Chakiuhmti. Nitipad.i, Surendi anat h Colli .. 
Chaudhuri, Chiraniihprasad, Piesideney ( N ,J | 4 ( 
Sen, Sunanda, Women’s Christian College 
Siidhirkmimr .lalan, St. Xa\ ter’s College 
Rasu, Jayanti, Asntosh College tor Women 
Chaki aharii. Amma, Ron-1 looghlv Ib.dm,,,, 

N* ahehandia College. 

Chakrabarii, Apama, Jalpaigmi Pras.um.i |j 

Women’s (’ollege. 

Dat tamajnmdar, Rupasii, Women’s (’lin ^ 

lege. 

Maitia, Rekha, noii-eolh i gmte stmlent, t ( 

I’.X. No. 121). 

Chaki ahart i, llimani. Lady Riahonrne ( 5 . * L ,, 

R ay cha odium , Pianaii, Rethune College 
Aehaiyya, Sa m indi a ju asanna . Suiendi ana' I, ( ,,j| ( 
Adhikau Nilima, Rei h.unpm e (Jills’ Collem 
( hakrahai ti. Biswarnp. Asntosh Col leg# 

Kauak It a m n i k la I Kliaia, Lady Rrahoutm 1( 

Kaigupta, (‘hittai aii|an, Itaelmna Ri|.i\ \, (!l 
Alahav idyalay a. 

Ray. Purahi, Women’s Christian Colh'ge 


Bliatta, Pralima, Nabagtain Hualal Pal ( nil. r, 
Dam, (Jayatri. Ilahra Sinhaitan\a College 
Das. Sailest haudi a, lta< Inina Bi|.iy \.n i\,n, \| ln 
v idyalay a. 

Na/.nuii Mam, Riudwan Ra| College. 


( ’hat topndhy ay , Minati, \sansol M.uum.ili 
College. 

Sengupta, Anupkunuu, Seiampoie ( ’«>!!« 

Rhat taehaiyy a, Rathindia, Itaehuua Rua\ \ >, 
Alahavidy alay a. 

Has, Asitkumai, Kalna College. 

Dalta, Samiikumai, 'laki (Jo\t. Colh'LO 
M uklmpadh.vay , All , nou-( ollesii .1 1 < e\tfind \ in, i 
(Roll Cal. K\t. No. 1655). 

Mitra. Sila, Women’s (’luishan College 
Nath, Paiesehandi a, Sanskrit ('olle.’e 
Sinha, I H'hiprasad, Krishnagar College 
Som, Sudhirk lima i , (Johai dang,a Hindu ( 5 > J 3 < _■ i 


Rhattacliar\y a, Rahuidi ana I h, Xadiat i J| : 
Rankimehandi a Col k g e. 

(liakrahari i, Piiiiuiulu, Pieshleiuy Colh 

Chanditi Mahtaiu St Xai lei s College 
A1 uUhopadliN . Delnk.i, Lady Riahnuim ( . ■ ■■ 

Palehaudhm i. (’Iiliahi Krislinaguir A\ omeii ( . d ■ 
Sur Ria ieiidian.it h, Mipmduai College 
Chat t ojiadhy ay , Rneswai San kill (’olU,< 

(Julia, Chandana, Lady Rrahmnnc ( ollege 

Shankar Lai Poihlai, Cit\ College. 

Randy opadliy ay , Pi adoshkumai , Midnapui 11 

Sen, dharna, r lhai‘giam lt;i| College. 

Sen, Pi a nt nshkiima i , Relui Ikimki rim i Mi ■ 
Yuly amandir. 

Dehnatli. I Mill endi aknniai Krishnagar Cnllt 
Miilniri, Suhodhkumar. Naihati Rishi Rank,! . mu' : 
(’ollege. 

Pramatuk, (Janeseliand ra . S i j >i i r Dinnhandlm 6 
lege. 

Ra<lhesh\am Kejnwal (Ca). St. Xa\ ier5 Cettj' 

Abraham Mutholv, Sonada Sah'sian Colleg, 

Rhat taehai y y a, Chnanjih, Sanskrit College 
Chattopadhy ay , Asnka, A? utosh College loi Tl 

D’souza. Joseph, Sonada Salesian ('ollege 
( Jhoshal , AsitUumar, Sanskrit (’ollege 
Mukhopadiiyay . Nandita, mm-eoilegiate 
Loreto House. 

R. A. Paiasuiaman (Ca), Asntosh College 
l sha Desai, Gokhale Memorial Girls’ Coll' /e 

Datta, Prahirkumar, Kandi Raj College. ^ 

Mandal, Sadendi anat h, ltaelmria Ri|a> N ,,!!l ' , ‘ 
MaliiiN idy alay a. 

Nand Kishore Rawat, City College. 

Ram (Jopal Rajaj, City Colh'ge. 

Sarkar, Alirn, Yihanlal College ot Home *"is 
Science. 


Laha, Mu a, Adetoiia Institution. 

Ray, Saurmdranath, Presidency College. 

Maiti, liidy utkumar, Kharagpur (’olh'ge 
Sury a Piakash Dudhwow ala, Scottish ( ' ,ul1 1 

Tapaswi. Swapankumar, Raishnabghata l>in* l, ' in ‘ 
Andrews College. 

Bhaumik, Anjali, Maharaja Alanindra (handi.i 

lege. cJlrM’ 

Chattopadhyay, Sudinkumar, Rarasat ” oV “; , ' i lt , n 

Ray, Minati, Burdwan Maharajadhiraj ( (1<l 
Women’s College. 

Sarkar, Alpana, Rerhampore Girls’ College. ^ 
Sen, Rabindranath. Bagati Sreegopal Banerji 



P*t!T IB] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


59 


GO 

M 


!»(] 


I'M 

Hit* 

‘M 


No., name and division. 

Agartaia Maharaja Bir Bikram Collage 

ROLL AGAR. 

Makhanlul Jjftnik, Second. 

Kalsankumar Fal, Second. 

I’.mnalal Majuindar, Third, 
l’makpani Gupta, Thud. 

IVahiikumnr Dattagupta, Second, 
t'diaranjan Dasgupta, Third. 

Haiimihaim Da.s, Third. 

Dipukkumur Das. S«'coml. 

>.ulhaiichaii(lra Cliakraharti, Second. 
Mangalmay Chakiaharti, Second. 

^.ilxagop.d Hisssas, Secoiul. 

( handramadhah Hlmmmk, Third. 

IMianmdii* HliaUacliarxs a, Second. 
Nityugopal Hliutt minus x a, SecomJ. 

Vhdtir Kasid, Second. 

.Ixotinndin Hannan, Second, 
lapankanti llhai.idwaj, Third. 

Du ipeiidrainoimn Hhutlnchai \ \ a, Third. 
Mahendrukinnm Hiia 1 1 acha i ,\ \ a , Second . 
Ilai.idhan Hhanimk, Seiond. * 

Sihendi ak imiiir Hhushan, Third. 

Sunilkninar Chakiaharti, Tlmd. 

Hi inah handra Datta, Second. 

Sun it iraujan Dam Third. 

.Inamanjan Cliaudhim, Inist. 

Nahmranjun Khatlacharx.s a, Third. 
(Lulalchundra Khauniik, Second. 

Uiilm Hezzak, Third. 

\ ikiinjahihari Hamk, Second. 

M. it dal Hhanimk, Second. 

Midlnichandra ( hakraharti. Second. 

.1 adugopa I (dial topadhx ,i\ , Thiid. 

Hnhmtpada Datta, Second. 

'I .t|M>ktimai Datta, Second. 

I’amihaI Hhanmik, Second. 

I ; .1 n 1 1 1 k II Mia I Hhattachai \ \a. Second. 
iJn.dal Clmiidhmi, Second. 

V mines I kislmsu ;o . Third. 

I hliplal C’liaki ahart i, 'I’hird 
.la> narayan (’hakraharti. Second. 

>at s a hrata (hakraharti, Second. 
Uiipeiidrakinnar Cliukma, Seiond. 

I * i adipranjan (’haudlmri. Thud. 
lUuipendi aehandi a Dat tabhammk, Second. 
Hisuesuai Majuindar, Fust. 

Sihkinnai Hav, Second. 

ipcndiakmnai Has, Second, 
ihilinhiliai i .Nath, Second. 

I l.iiek rishna Has , Third.’ 
i * u 1 1 1 1 ( ■ ] t a 1 1 1 { i a De’hnath. Third. 

Hiin.i Ichandi a I, mill. Third. 

Milankanti Alnjumdur, Third 
Nmt naiijan Saha, Second. 

I^alii moli. in Dehharma, Thiid. 

Hi|.i\kumar Dchhaimnn, Third, 
han.uilnhai i Debnath, Thiid 

I I iiiiansiiranjan Saha, Tlmd 
Na > cndraclia rulra Deh, Third. 

< hit taianjan Delmat !i. Second 

* 1,1 1 anjan Dehnat h, Third. 

^ dial kan 1 1 Mapimdni, Tlmd. 

Manilas Hakslnt, Second. 

Huy, Second. 

Hahmdranath Hay. Second 
toijiesraujaii Saha, Seiond. 

• niM-ndi aknniar Hiang, Second. 

Sm adesranjan Ihi.t, Second 
^'uevt-handra Hay, Tlmd 
^uiioianjan Hal. Third. 

' lahirkmnar Ghosh. I'hird 
Ntsikantu Deh, Second. 

J 'd i a man i Sinha, Tlnrd. 

Hima ranjan Sengupta, First. 

^•ikhlai Saha, Second. 


ROLL AGAR. F. 

"::r v T n-w, First. 

, Itiisn. Third, 

■ mi na Hhat taeharxya, First. 

Hu»; a n , | 1,1 Ma J»nidiir. Third. 

V u,a >Mnay, TTiircl. 

Sdni ,ta i» <: ! ,aiKlll,,n ' T,,ir < 1 * 

v ri* 1 «*. Second. 

!4 {V ,t - rn * ,,,af<} icharyya. Third. 

Third. ,,J,II,,C ai ’ 1 ^ U ^ n - No - 1; Vk‘k) of 1 958- 

^inri 0l v Mhattacharyya, I'hird. 
s ! M k »K Second.- 
^*nTiu , pf ,a " Third. 

Luc lm li C ii a S abaPti » Second. 
l{ ln ., I IVbharma, Third. 

( ^)^Fi^^t. aiUmda^, 11 (Regn ' N °* 27198 of 1 


No., name and division. 

Agartaia Maharaja Bir Bikram College 

ROLL AGAR. F. 

11 Anita Hay, Second. 

IS Hiuapani .Mapimdar, I (Hegn. No. 27190 ol 1959- 
(>tl). Third. 

•jA DipaJi Sengupta, I’hird. 

• it (Jauri Chanda 'I’hird. 

02 .Ixotsita Dasgupta, Tlnrd 
07 Miimlim Hands npndhx u v , Third. 

72 M ruin la Nath,* Tlmd.* 

79 Helm Mapimdar, Think 

SI M rid u la Datta, Third. 

vSS Haml.uiu Dchhaim.in, Third. 

90 A junta Dhur, Tlnrd. 

HA A upi Hal, Third. 

97 Mira Sengupta, Second. 

HS Lily Dattagupta. Tlmd. 

Hit .Ivotsna Nath. Third 
IHH Gasatn Datta, Thiul. 

IHI^ A run a Taraphdai , Second. 

W7 Fsha Has , Second. 

ins Siinanda Khan. Second. 

inn Sumti Dehharmaii . Thud. 


Alipurduar College 

ROLL ALIPUR 

7 Ssamapadn Sen, Tliml. 

S r J it emit acfiamlra Namasarma. 'I’hird. 
3 1 Hliahaiiihlnishan Sarkar. Tlnrd. 

•AA lvalipada Das, Tlnrd. 

•A7 Si ipal mat h Chakiaharti, Tlnrd. 

•AS Sunilkiimar Halit, Second 
In Siimirkumai Cliaudhim, Second. 

IS Tarasankar Nisogi, Second. 

•IH Hanjit kiiiiinr Mapimdar. First. 

AS Himalchamira Saha, Second 
(>A Su bod lik u mar Kiirirlu. Third. 

(>1 N i kin Iranian Haha, Third. 

Hi) Saioikumat Sum, Tlmd. 

70 Sasmath Isuaisari. Think 

71 'I’apaschandi a Dc, Third. 

7A Amngopal (Josuaim, Second 
Haikiint hanath Ibis, Tlmd. 

7H (dim das Hasii. Thiid 
Sn Hanpt kiimav Sarkar, Second. 

Sd Suhrata Ghosh, Hirst, 
sn Ginndrakumar Naha, Second 
S7 A i iiiikiiinai Cliakraharti. Second. 

SH Kalvankinmn Chat t opadhyav Fir.st. 
HO Hankaikumar Goswaim, Second. 

HI lira lendratiat h Sin First . 

Ho Hradvotkumai Sarkar, Seiond 
07 Hallahkuiiiai Hasii Tliml. 

102 Siiinh-liaiidra Adlukan, 'Jliinl 
[0d Hima Ikiima i HhattacJiars s a, 'l lnul 
01 Dmesehandia Chahiahai t*i. Second 
I0o Hhupciidi akisoi Chaudhuri, Thud 


ROLL ALIPUR F. 

2 Saint ri Cliakraharti, Third. 

•A lids De. 'I’hird. 

■I \njali (Aiaudhun, SecomJ. 

0 Chimin Dhar. Seiond. 

10 Amimi Gosuann, Ahird. 

14 Ha rag Sengnptu. Second. 

15 Scphnli Sarkai, 'Hurd. 
dO Hcha Sarkar, 'J’hinl 

.AS (i i til Hhattach ar.ssa, Seiond. 

AO Hani M ukliopadhs as , Second 

40 Sihatn De, Tlmd! 

41 Manpila Datta, Second. 

4J Dipali Gaugopadlis as , Third. 

45 Hum mm Handopadhs as , Seiond. 

40 Sohlia Hal, Second. 

47 Minati De. Third. 

•'>0 Sila Ha.su, Sei ond. 

51 Anjah Sarkar (Hegn. No. It 05 oj 1950-00), Third. 
f>2 Kamala Dasgupla, 'khird. 

M J*ranita Haksi. Seeond. 

55 Hina Guhamyogi, Second. 

50 Swapna Sarkar, Seiond. 

57 Nihlia Glia Ink, First. 

58 Alpana Soni, First. 

59 Archaua Som, First, 

60 Gayatri Mitra, Second. 

(52 Arati Sarkar, Third. 

RI Anjali Sarkar (Hegn. No. 31601 of 1938-50), Second. 
65 Jharaa Majutudar. Third. 



60 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29 , 1962 


[Part lfi 


No., name and division. 

Amla Ramsaday Collage 
ROLL AMTA. 


No., name and division. 


Arambagh Netaji Mabavldyalaya. 
ROLL ARAM. 


1 Dukshmikantn Klicto, Second. 

3 Samhhunath Das, Tliird. 

4 Ghnndrusekhar Sanianta. Third. 

11 Huddhudch Manna, Second. 

14 Sumhhunalh ('him*. Third. 

19 Hiswanath Karan, Secoml. 

20 Sihnath Majuindur, Third. 

20 AludhtismJan Pandit, Second. 

32 Ni muiiliand ra Dcvasi, Third. 

33 Kenupuda ( ,'hakra baiti , Second. 

30 Silkdeb Saikar, Second. 

.‘18 Sibdas Kakshil, Third. 

39 Ajaykiimui Mitra, Third. 

41 Madunmohun A1 ukhopudliyay, Third. 

42 Tulsi Muhin, Hurd. 

43 Suilcndranal h Hajra, Second. 

49 Hiswanath Manna, Second. 

6*1 Hija> krishna Ghosh, Secoml. 

60 Amlchnmlia Sanianta, Third. 

67 Kasmath Map, Second. 

68 Madamnohnn Ghosh, Third. 

04 Hamcndranat h Bag, 'Hurd. 

05 Gopalchandi a Handyopadhyay, Third. 
<>45 Sainsii/.xaman .Mol la, Third. 

07 Ki ran may Chakra harti, Third. 

09 Kazi Fazlur Hahman, Third. 

71 Cdaychand Alaji, Second. 

72 Nimaichandra Metiva, Third. 

73 Gajendranath Alandal, Third. 

74 Kughunath Maji, Hurd. 

76 Gaugadhar Jasn, Third. 

78 Arunkiian Das, Thud. 

79 Hahiram Parel, Third. 

8U Amiyakmnar Sil, Third. 

81 Hijaykrishna Nandi, Third. 

82 Ha.ikrishna llasu, Third. 

83 .liigannath \laiti. Second. 

81 Kalipada Maiti. Third. 

86 Adhirchandra Maiti, Third. 

80 SiiNilkumar Sasmal, Third. 

87 Prahhatkumar Dalui, Second. 

88 Hiswanath Ghosh, Second. 

89 Nilniam Sanianta, Third. 

90 Manoranjan Adhikun, Thini. 

91 Kurtikchnudin Kola, Third. 

93 Mndhabendu llasu. Third. 

94 Suknmar llasu, Third. 

95 Sunilkumar Das, Third. 

90 Jugahaiidhii llasu, Third. 

97 Ajitkumar Kay, Third. 

98 Samarendranath Pandit, Third. 

99 Sk. Aid. Esraiil, 'Third. 

101 Adwaitacharan lleia, Third. 

103 Lakshnukanta Chakrabarti, Third. 

104 Sailendranat h Curb bait, Third. 

]()<> llalaram Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

107 Hholanatli Clou it. Third. 

108 Ahhaypada Das, Third. 

109 llalaiciiandra Maji, Third. 

115 Kasudeb Ghosh, Third. 

117 S.vatnapada Ilodliak, r Thinl. 

118 Aladanmnrati Kole, Second. 

119 Halaichanil Maji. Third. 

120 Phanindranath Alanna, Third. 

126 Suchif kiiniar Das, Third. 

130 Safiar Kalnnan Aloilick, Third. 

133 Syamalkumai Sarkar, Tliiid. 

134 Nirmalcndu Hatabyal. Third. 

135 Alanorunjan .Jana, Tliird. 

130 Ro/ique Ahammad Alullick, Third. 

137 Samhhunath C’hattopadhyay , Tliird. 

142 Madanchandra Kit, Third. 

143 Sitalchandra Jasn, Hiirtl. 

144 Nirmalkiimar Das, Third. 

148 Scikh Saralat All, Third. 

161 Jagaimath Kanrar, Third. 

162 Hhaktadas Kanrar, Second. 

163 Sanatkumar Sinharny, Third. 

102 Sain ark u mar Khan, 'Third. 

106 Kcsalx handra Patra, Third. 

ROLL AMTA. F. 

1 Mira Chakrabarti, Third. 

4 Sakuntala Patra, Second. 

6 Manisha Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

0 Nihha Kit, Third. 

7 Jvotiprabha Sanianta, Third. 

8 Namita Sengupta, Third. 

9 Sabitri Palodhi, Third. 


Non-collegia u student, Amta Ramsaday Collegs x 
ROLL AMTA. N. 


3 Nabakutnar Alandal, Second. 

4 ditendrakumar Ghandrn, First. 

0 Dinabarulhu Bundyopadhyay, Third. 
10 Ajitkumar De, Second. 

12 Dilipkumar Ghosh, Second. 

13 Saileswar Guchhait, Second. 

10 Hmuwisusekhui Sengunta, Third. 

20 Amiyakumar LLajra, Tnira. 

21 'I'arapada Khanirui, Second. 

24 Hakshnukanta Alandal, Third. 

26 Sainhhiicharan Alukhnpadhyay, Third. 
36 Gopalchamlra Pal, Third. 

39 Ah Mohshin, Third. 

40 Sanatan Das, Second. 

41 Hijaykrishna Ghosh, Second. 

40 Phalgum Chakrabarti, Second. 

51 Asokkumar Ghosh, Seci/nd. 

50 Sihaprasad Aduk, Third. 

05 Nisithkumar Chaudhuri, Third. 

00 Hirendranath Chattopadhyav, Tliird. 
71 Pankajknmar Datta, Second. 

73 Ajitkumar De, Third. 

79 Hiswanath Hajra, 'third. 

8-1 Sahadcb Kundii, Hurd. 

85 Anilkumar Khan, Third. 

87 Muradhan Kundu, Third. 

91 Nandadulal Alandal, Third. 

93 Sk. Kaja Aliah, Third. 

99 Mnhanchundra Patra, Second. 

103 Hararatan Hay, Second. 

104 Shaikh Alohainmod Yeashin, Third. 
112 Alalaykumar Datta, 'Third. 

1 15 Hinaykumar De, Second. 

120 Kasmath De, 'Third. 

120 Amalkanti Ghorai, 'Third. 

140 Nimaichandra Nandi. 'Third. 

141 Sunilkumar Pal, 'Third. 

114 Amlknnti Kay, 'Third. 

1 16 Dehausukumar Kay, 'Third. 

148 Aluranniohan Samui, Secoml. 

161 Suhhashchattdra Ghosh, Tlurd. 

105 Alururimolian Alukliopadhyay, Third. 


Asansol Banwarllal Bhalotia College. 
ROLL A8AN. 


1 Anilkumar Goswami. Third. 

2 'i'upankumar Kay, Seomid. 

4 A purbakrislina Hhaduri. Third. 

5 Aiadhahendia Hiswas, Second. 

0 Syamaikuinar Sengupta Second. 

7 Alilurkumar Kand>opadliyu # v, Second. 

9 Punyajyoti Hhattacliaryya, Third. 

1 1 Dulalkauti Karruakur. Third. 

12 Purneiidiiiianiyan Alukliopadhyay, Third. 
J3 Pranahkiunar Alukliopadhyay, Third. 

14 Alanojpnya < ‘huttopadhyay, 'Third. 

10 Asimkumar Das, Second. 

17 Suhhash Sengupta, Second. 

21 Sibcndranarayan Mukhopadhyay, Second. 
23 Asitbaran Sadliu, Second. 

25 Asitbaran Pa mie. Second. 

29 Alokkumar Chattopadhyay, First. 

31 Kanajitkumar Maji, First. 

32 Angira Gliosli, Third. 

35 Aladanmohan Alaji, Second. 

30 Alanimay Alukhopudhyav, First. 

37 Bidhubhiishun Mitra, Third. 

39 Dasarathi Jherait, Third. 

41 Pariinal Ghosh. Second. 


43 

45 

50 

58 

02 

03 

06 

08 

09 

70 

71 

72 

73 
75 
77 ' 
78 
82 

84 

85 
88 

92 

93 
96 

98 

99 


Hadalkumar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 
Sankaruath Sarkar, Third. 

Pur midland ra Alaji, Third. 
Suhodheliandra Sadliu, Third. 

Nik biles De, Second. 

Bilwamangal Das, Third. 

Satyendralal (’haudhuri, 'Third. 
Asokkumar Ghosh, Second. 

Dioakkumar Som, Second. 

Sanyasachi Datta, First. 

Alokkumar Ghoshal, Second. 
Prakascliandra vSain. Third. 

Batukeswar Ray, Third. 

Nityanarayan Handyopadhyay, Second. 
Adhirkuinar De. Tliird. 
ilireudu Kay, 'Third. 

Narayangopal Sarkar, Third. 
Himanchundra Chaudhuri, Third. 
Syamadas Handyopadhyay, Third. 
Santoshkumar Kundu, Second. 
Kimalkumar Dube, Third, 

Nirendrakumar Handyopadhyay, Second. 
Jagat Narayati, Second. 

Krishna Ball Shaw. Second. 

Syed Abdul Abie 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


611 


'j*T I®! 


No., name and division. 

Asansoi Banwariiai Bhalotla College. 
ROLL. A8AN. 


No., name and division. 

Asansoi Monlmata Girls' College. 
ROLL. ASAN. F. 


101 

11K! 

ItHi 
| nit 


,17 


Ill' 

ill 

in 

|.V 

r.i 

iy 

'oU 


Ukshminarayan Adhikari, Third. 
Narottamdas Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

Krishna AJandul, Third. 

\sish *Uy, First. 

Habindi anath Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
I'niishkiUiti Sengupta, Third. 
HiiKMidriikuinar Chakraharti. Third. 
Kjbikumar Ghosh, Third. 

S.nitiinay Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
>\i)inapada Ciiuttopadhyay, Third, 
pohendrakumar Nandi. Third. 

hintvakumiir Sen, Third. 
Paiosriiandra Ray, Third. 

Husudeh Goswami, Third. 
Siihiinalkntnar Ghosh, Second. 

I [ wn manual Jamidar, Socond. 
^mitkumar Bandy opadhy ay, Third. 
Ntnnkmnar Be, Second. 
fUshnupada R’aychaudhuri, Scccmd. 
Aihtyakuinar Hay, Second. 

S;i<\ iihrata Band.vopadhyay, Second. 
Arunkiiniar Lai Gupta, First. 


Non-Uollegiato student, Asansoi 
Banwariiai Bhalotia College 
ROLL ASAN. N. 

() Sudliamav Baudyopadhyuy, Second. 


Asansoi Manimala Girls’ College. 

ROLL ASAN. F. 

Manjn Sengupfca, Second. 

Gunn Mamial, Socond. 

I ma Motlak, Second. 

s.unllivn Band> opadh.i ay, Third. 

K it ,i Bandyojiadhyay, Third, 
h’elia < hadopadhyav, Koct/nd. 

-I.i\a BamBopadhyay, Second. 

^uMua Biswas, Seemul. 

Mmati ( hakraliarli, 'third. 

Pi.ilihlm Das, Second. 

Dam i Das, Second. 

Si i hi .Mapimdar, Second. 

•I m hika Mitrn, Third 
liu Onndynpadhyny, First. 

\ ml a Bandyopadhyay , Third. 

Nival i Bliaumik, Second. 

Dipl i Basu, Second. 

Bit lu Basiiiaychamihuri, Second. 

Bam < ’hakraharti. Second. 

-Ban < hal topadliyay, Second. 

Sohhaua Ohuudhtm, Third. 

'Iharna Djisjjupta, Second. 

Burn mm Ghosh, TTurd. 

Kalpana Ghoshrny, Third. 

.Mina (»n ha. First. 

Sahita Guhathnkurta, Third. 

A n i n 1 1 Kaliali, Secmid. 

Bnti Mukhopadhvay, Second. 

Mukhopadhvay, Third. 

Alokana Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

• lanah Mukliopadli>ay, Second. 

Aiati Muknopndhyay, Second. 

I npat * Mukhopadhyay, Second 
Bnhi Baitari, Third. 

Hnshnukah l?a.>, Second. 

Diiui Bay, Second. 

Mu a Bay, ’third 
NijKdha H'ny. Second. 

Ddii Bay, Second. 

•'11111 Sen, Second 
Mmati Sen, Third. 

'-tniiami Scngupta, Second. 

\>mta Sen^upta, Third 

• 'Oiiuiika Chattopadhvay, Second. - 

m,a ( ’hoshal. Second. 

'I' 1 1 Ghosh, Second 
^ ^'iha, Third. 

Buhi Kes, 'third 
M'na Sarkar, Second. 


h'.itati Sarkar, Second. 

*'l anTn \r M ’ ,kho P afiil W, Second. 
s uk n a l UL Iu , k . ho l? adh - vft y J Second. 

N n Second. 

& a D Vi' Second. 

May^H ^i ltra * First. 
s >amaH Rh!ff a t hyay > First. 

Hama ^? hatt / Clla ^y a > First. 
Br^L, T m 4 ar - First. 

A ^u adL B 5 nd ? opadh y a y* Second. 

S ^j2s! h ssar y ’ 


77 Kalvani Ghosh, Second. 

78 Bharuti Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

79 Gitu Basu, First. 

SO (Jauri Sarkar, First. 

81 CTiamlaiiu Sen, First. 

82 Mmati Chnttopadh.vay, First. 

83 daparuaya Chnttopadh.vay, Third. 
81 A iij ah Bay, ’J’hird. 

8a Sephalika Sarkar, Third, 

87 Snigdhn Mun.xi, Second. 

88 Bin mum Basu, First. 

89 Jntiudar Kaur Sood, Second. 


Aiutosh College. 

ROLL CAL. 

1T>7! Pnritoshkumar Bus, T'hird. 

1579 Frasantakuniar Sarkar, Third. 

2709 Amnlkmnar Gnngopadhyay, Third. 

3009 Kumarkisor (Tiaudluiri. Second. 

5(570 Amalendu Be, Third. 

5071 Krislinadas Dehnatli, Second. 

5(572 (iohimladas Gnitgopadhyav, First. 

3070 Aumd.vakimiar Basu, Second. 

5(179 An, |an Chaudhuri, Socond. 

5(580 Buiyui krihlina Ciiakraharti. Third. 

5(582 J*raf apehnnd (Jhosli, Second. 

5(585 Bliupalcliaudra Basu, First. 

5(581 ( Tiandankuinar Basu, 'third. 

3085 Bihhut ihhushau Das, Second. 

5(591 dnanahati Das, 'third. 

5(595 Swapankumar Das, 'third. 

5(598 Pipoiidranat h Dalta, TTurd. 

5705 Basudch Basu, 'third. 

5701 Sailcndrakunmr Basu, Thud. 

5700 Asishchandra ( Tiaudluiri, Second. 

5707 Bi m\ anath (Tiaudhun, Second. 

5711 Bmialcndu Chakraharti, Third. 

5717 Anil Ghosh, Socond. 

5720 Amlkiunar Gaugopadlivav, Second. 

5721 Asuitkuinar Gnngupitdhyav. TTurd 

5722 Brahhal kumar Ganjiopadh.v ay, Third. 

5728 Ada aitakuniar Be, Second. 

5751 Sujitkuinar Dasgupta, Third. 

5752 Manoranjau Basgupta, Second. 

5755 Bilipkiimar Dasguptn, Third. 

5759 Suhodhkuiuar Das, Second. 

5741 Binialkumar Chakraharti, 'third. 

5745 Bihhasranjan Chaudhuri, Second. 

5717 J*radipkumar ('haudhuri, 'third. 

5718 Suhodhehamlra Acharvya, 'third. 

5751 Bipinkunuu (-hakraharti, First. 

5755 Api \ kiunar Ghosh, Second. 

5750 Bipakchamlra Be, Socimd. 

5700 Syaiuolkimti Chakraharti, Second. 

5701 Kalynnkumar Batt.a, Third. 

5702 Mmakshahhushan Bus, Fust. 

5705 SatyendranaUi Bus, 'third. 

5700 Sakti Bus, First. 

5768 Kamnpraxad Be, Second. 

5709 Saunnananda (’hattopadhyay, First. 

3770 .7 a ha rial Chattopadhvay, Second. 

3771 Amarendranath Chatlopadhyav, Second. 

3773 Belnprasad Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

3774 Brahirkumar ( Tiatlopadhiay, Second. 

3770 Bijankumai Chattopadhvny, Second. 

3778 Pradipkurnar Chatlopadh.vay, 'Hurd. 

3780 Knmnlkumar Bamlyopadhs av, TTiird. 

3781 Bipakkumar Band.vopadhyay, Second. 

3782 BiNwarup Chakraharti, First. 

5780 Hamendranath Bandyopadhvav, Second. 

3790 Asok Bandvt/padhvav, JI (Keen. No. 9628 of 1958- 

59), Third. 

3791 Amnlkmnar Bhattaeharyja, Third. 

3792 Nimnichand Rami, Third. 

3793 AmiMasudan Bhattaeharyyn. Second. 

3791 Asitkumar Bhatlnehnrvyn, Third. 

3799 Kalisaukar Bhatlacharyya, 'third. 

3802 Sanhindranath Bhattacharyya, Second. 

3804 Tapankumar Chakraharti, Third. 

3808 Asishkumar (’hattopadhyay, Second. 

3809 Tinulal Chattorpadhyay , Second. 

.‘7810 Ajwvkumar Chattopadhvay, Second. 

3812 Dwarkcswar (’hattopadhyav, Second. 

5815 Amiyakumar Baral, Third. 

5819 Asokkumar Biswas. Third. 

.‘7820 Gobinda Biswas, Third. 

3822 Tara pa da Bhaunuk, Third. 

5826 liaaiigopal Basak, Second. . 

5828 Taritkumar Bhatlacharyya, Third. 

5831 Bidhankitmar Bhattacharv>a, Third. 

3835 Dehiprasad Bhattacharyya, Second. 

38.78 K»hmkumar Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

5839 Subrata Bandyopadhyay, 

5842 Bipradas Bandyopadhyay, Third. t 
3844 Tubharkanti Bandyopadhyay, Third. 


02 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


[Past 


No., name and division. 

Asutosh College. 

ROLL CAL. 

381.5 Anilkumar Bandyopadhya*y, Third. 

.3851 An i mesh Bhattacharyya, Third. 

JJ852 Pradipkuinur BhaUinharyya, Third. 

.‘18.5.3 Dwipayankumar Basil, Third. 

.3854 Syumaiik nniar Chnttopadhyay, Third. 

385.5 Arahimla Chakiabarti, Second. 

38.50 (lanesprasad Chattopadhyuy, Third. 

3808 Aru nk uniat Basil, Second. 

3809 Bijitendi amohan Mitra., Second. 

.387.3 J)ehapra*sad Mitra, Second. 

J1870 Amulkutmir Can, Second. 

3877 Dilipkmnar (iliosh, 11 (Regn. No. 9804 of 

Second. 

3878 Asishknmar Uhosh, Third. 

.3879 Rabin Chatak, Tllird. 

.3883 Knmnlkumur Mukhopadhyay , Third. 

3888 Summit h M ukliopadh.v av , Second. 

3890 Nilendu M ukliopadhya-y , Third. 

3891 'ratlin Mitra, Second. 

3892 Bratindranath C»hosh, Third. 

3890 Anandakisor Ohosli, f rhir<l. 

.3898 Suhhahrata Chosh. Third- 
38119 Salilkuniat Cupta, Sect/nd. 

3900 Asiinknmar (Riptachuiidhuri, Third. 

3901 SatMKisok (ihoshal. Second. 

3902 (hipalcliandi a (iuin, 'I’hird. 

3903 Manindranalli Cm, Second. 

390.5 Ranp tkumai (ihorui, Second. 

3906 Asokkuniar Haidar, Second. 

3908 Chanasvam Hnralalka*, Third. 

3912 Siidhansusokhar iM a tidal, Second. 

391 1 Amiyakninar Alandal. Third. 

391.5 Dihaknr .Majuntdar, Third. 

3918 Sa*tvabiata Mukhopadhyay , Second. 

3919 Smiilkmnar Mukhopadhvay, Third. 

3920 Sachidulal Majumdar, Third. 

392! Amntalal Majiinidar, Second. 

392 1 Baines .Majumdar, Third. 

3928 Arnnkumar Mukhopadhvay, Second. 

3929 Bajinl kuniar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

3932 Svamnldas Alaitra, Second. 

3.931 B npendranath Alitra, Second. 

3.930 AJokknmur Mitra, Third. 

393,8 Pnidyutkumar Mitra, 'Third. 

3,939 l*i auahkiimar Mitra, Third. 

3911 SihendriMiath Baiun, 'Third. 

3912 Anilkumar lvandar. Third. 

3913 Suhimal Kar. Second. 

39 1.5 l>(‘liansukmnar Cupta, Second. 

3917 Siisanlakiiniiir Mamlal, 'Third. 

3919 Sumankumar M ukhopadhyay, 'Third. 

39.51 C 'll hn l*i La»l, Third. 

39:52 Dinesli Chandra .Ilia, Third. 

3954 Kant ir .lha, Third. 

39.58 Bathimli anath Mapimdar, Second. 

39.59 Alokkumar Choshdastidar, First. 

3900 Dehkumar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

3902 Sudarsivn A1 ukhopadhyav . Second. 

3903 .latindranath Alifra, Third 
3905 Banajit Mukhopadhyay, 'Third. 

3900 IVnrthanakuniur Ka.val. Thud. 

3907 Sekliat Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

3908 Bi.shnuch:H'an Mukhopadhvay, 'Third. 

3971 Ajitkiimar Saha, 'Third. 

3971 Dilipknmur Kav, Second. 

397:5 Bradipkutmir Ravchaudhuri, 1 (Regn. No, 
1 ! 1.51 )-60 ) , Secon d . 

3970 Kanailal Si, 'i’hird. 

3979 Paiitpahan Sinha, 'J’hird. 

3982 ChaynukutmiT Ravchaudhuri. Tliird. 

3983 Mahadehchandra Ray, 'Third. 

3984 Saniarescluindra Bav, Second. 

3980 i n d rapt Bav, Third. 

3988 Dclmbrata Rav, Third. 

3989 Bluthnni Pande, Third. 

3992 Himnnsusekhar Paruvn, Second. 

3993 Dehescl.andra Pal, Third. 

3991 Asutosh Pal, Third. 

399.5 •Jagujyoti Nayak, 'J’hird. 

3996 Ratneswar Nandi, Second. 

31)97 J*radipkumar Nath, Third. 

3998 Narayarichandra Maulik, Third. 

3999 Paresnath Maiti. Second. 

4001 BalyakriHhna Pal, First. 

4002 Prabhatkumar Pal, First. 

4004 Samarendra Si, Second. 

4010 Parescliandra Sadhukha*n, Second. 

4011 Dilipkmnar Sahu, Third. 

4012 Santwamiehitta Sarkar. Third. 

4013 Sisirkuinar Sarkar, Third. 

401.5 Praphullaktimar Sa*ha. Third. 

( f 4010 Mohimmohan Saha, Third. 

4018 Nimaichand Saha. Third. 

4019 Samarendranath ItaychaudJiuri, Third. 

1 4020 Asok Ravchaudhuri, Third. 

iflQfl u.r Rn.r Unr.nt.rl 


No., name and division. 

Asutosh Col logs. 

ROLL CAL. 

4031 Sadananda Parui, Third. 

4030 Debabrata Pal, Third. 

4037 Asokkuniar Pal, Second. 

4039 Rabindranath Nayek, Third. 

4013 Ahhashranjan Nath, Third. 

4015 Raieharan Mallik, Second. 

1017 Md. Fasdul Honue Sepai, Third. 

4049 Susil kuniar Nath, First. 

40.50 Susantakumar Ray, First. 

4051 Di lip kuniar Ray, Second . 

40.53 Adinath Sarkar, Second. 

1958-59), 4055 Rabindranath Pal, Seecmd. 

4050 Snkeschandra Maiti, Second, 

4060 Somesh Rai Sahgal, First. 

4002 Alangad Prasad Singh, Third. 

4(H) 1 Rama i’rasad Singh, Third. 

4005 Marian Mohan Singh, Third. 

4(M)(> Ram Janam Singh, Third. 

4009 Kami Sengupta, First. 

4071 Prahirkurnar Sengupta*, Third. 

4071 Kamales Sen, Second. 

4070 Sihendukunuir Sengupta, Second. 

1077 Saritkiimnr Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

4078 Pramathes Sen, Second. 

4079 Svamnlkumar Chakrabarti, Third. 

4080 'Taiunkumar Srimuui, Third. 

1081 Piadipkumar Sen, Second. 

4082 Asokkuniar Sengupta, First. 

4084 N irmivlyakumar Sengupta, Third. 

4085 Auialcndu Sur, First. 

4087 M. R Sctliumndhava Kao, Second. 

4089 Bansidhnr Navak, 'I’hird. 

40! M) Baikuiithacharan Dash, 'I'hird. 

1091 Vinav Chandra C. Shah, First. 

1092 Riwnesli Chandra Chhotalal Shah, Third. 

4094 I min Kuniar Neganrlhi, Third. 

1090 Bhanulal H Mehta, Second. 

1097 .lav anti Bhai Sh. Patel, 'I'hird. 

4098 Hasniukhlal Bhaichand Shall, Second. 

17 48 Snntnslikuniar Hor, 'I’hird. 

1710 Saktimav Chosh, Tllird. 

1711 (oMH'schandra Datta, Second. 

47 12 Bircmlranath Rnvehaudliuri, Second. 

4714 Sajalkumar Das, Third. 

1715 Prahhat kuniar Chattopadhviiv, I'hird. 

1710 Anilkumar Bundyopadhyny, 'I'hird. 

17 17 Ma*nopt kuniar Chosh, Second. 

4718 Saiatkiuuar M ukhopadhyay. Second. 

4719 Asokkuniar K'a.v, Second. 

17.50 Ala hadch Datta, Second 
4751 Dibv endralal Sarkar, Second. 

1753 Kirimsankar Civngopadhyay, Third. 

1751 Asitkumar Bamlyopadhvay , Third. 

1700 Binialkuniar Mitrarav, Third. 

1701 Asimranjan Bliat tuehar.vya . Second. 

4702 Mehanchiwan Biswal, 'I'hird. 

4705 Tck Bahadui, Third. 

I7()0 Bhriguiuith i’rasad Sriv T astav r , Third. 

1707 Rama Sankar Bajoria, Second. 

17(>9 Nand Kishor Cupta, Second. 

1772 Shiv Kumar Kapur, Second. 

1771 Deshmukh Abdul Khalujue, Third. 

1777 C. I lnruv engadatn, 'I'hird. 

4778 Krishna Avyar, D., First. 

1780 C Kalidas, Third. 

7204 of 17 s ! (’• Narasimham, Second. 

1783 P. Al. Sankaranarayanan Namhoodiri, Second. 
4781 K. Biwuankut tv. Second. 

478.5 R A. Parasuraman (Ca), First. 

1780 Koovappalh Sreedhnran, 'I’hird. 

4787 I*. Siindaram, 'I'hird. 

1788 K. Copala Pilhu, Second. 

4790 K. R Krishnan, 'I’hird. 

4791 Kamal Kishan Du hey. First. 

4792 Deha.prasnd AI ukhopadhyay, 7'hird. 

4791 Sudeh Chat topndhya.v. Third. 

479.5 Pi a hi rk u mar Ray, Second. 

4 797 Dipakkumar Sarkar, 'I'hird. 

4799 Amu Ik umar Das, 'I'liird. 

4800 Dipakkutnar Sengupta, Third. 

4800 Kaliprasad Deh, Third. 

4809 Dli trend ranarayan Karmakar, Second. 

4810 Audchandra Sarkar, Second. 

4814 Kartikchandra Bhattacha*ryya, Third. 

4815 Dinanath Bhattacharyya, Second. 

4810 Saktisadhan Sarkar, Second. 

4817 A jit Seth, Third. 

4818 Asok Mitra, Second. 

4821 Ratnwprasad Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

4822 Syamalkumar R’ay, First. 

4820 («. Santhanam, Second. 

4827 K. A. Balasubramanian. Second. 

4828 Ponnangi Lakshmayya, Third. 

^829 Ur lam Rrishna*rao,' Second. 

4830 Seshagiri Rao Pappu, Second. 

.4001 a i 1 1 j 


]>(1IT IB] 


T1IE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


63 


No., name and division. 

Asutocti College. 
ROLL CAL. 


No., name and division. 

Atutoeh College. 
ROLL CAL. 


is,j 4 Rnneiulranath Basil, Third. 

j’anchaiian Bandy opadliyay, Second. 
aki; Kamalkrishna Das, Second. 

( handidas M ukhopadhyay, Tliird. 

JK.V’ Hirendrakumar Das, Third. 

4 wVi Sukhenduchandra Chakrabarti, lliird. 
jji-js Kanailal Senehaudhuri, Second. 

Sasankabhusan Deh, Second. 

4^)1 Katikanta Naskar, Third. 

IMil? Siiresoha-mlra Dc, Third. 

1^7 Siiilapftti Bhattachary.va, Third. 

Amulvaratan Chattopadhyay, Second. 

4K ;i A runkutnar Ray 'I’lurd. 

4S;j Ihnnki Rayehaudhuri, Third. 
j„71 Mrmalkanti Pal, Second. 

4^77, J'radyumnakumar J annular, Third. 

4S7(i Kali pa da BhatUeharyya, Second. 

4^77 Uhaskarchandra Bora, Second. 

jes] Buna-lkrishmi Chattopadhyay, Second. 

]s s-J iSitai Pal, Second. 

4ss!) Hhuskarranjan Sengupta Third. 

4H‘)J Prana hkmnar Biswas, Third. 

4111*18 Dipendralal Bamlyc/piulhyay, Third. 
jsiM Smlhansuseklmr Mitn>, Second. 

4KH7 Dobsadiinn Ghosh, Third. 

IS! is Sunilkmnar Basak, Third. 

1<)DI Parescliandra Sarkar, Second. 

1«Mir> Kumarsankar Dasgupta, Second. 

,|;«i7 Vhhijil MukliopatlhyiKS , Second. 

IDUS Sudipkuinir A1 ukhopadhyay, Third. 

4<Hli Suclhansukumar Bandyopadhyay, Second. 
}]>H Suhrata Chattopadhyay, Third. 

U»I2 Dehabruta De, Third. 

4!>r> A.iayprawad Dattaray, Third. 

4'.M5» Kalikrishna Nath, Third. 

I! >'40 Diptuiarayan Rnychaudlniri, Second. 

I!t’l Amalendu Mahal, Second. 

WI'J suiitikumar Mandal, Scccmd. 
j!*L r i Ni Fpctidranath (Jhosh, Third. 

J!L>r Annihumiwr Bandvopadhva\ , 1 (Rcgn. No. 
1050-60), Third.' 


l!*Js Sudarsan Bliatiacharyya, Second, 
ri.li) Paicsnath Sen, Second. 

Id:'.' Sukumar Bhaumik, Third. 

I'M:' Uiplahkutnur Datta, Second. 

JO 18 Bluheschnndra Das, Second. 

!•'» Ihirga* Prasad Slia. Second. 

I'i4c> Mnlar.shan Singh, Second. 

P* P ’ \sitkumar Ray, Second. 

lira icndrakuinar Kun, Second. 

P 1 » I "oi .tdcskumar Chanda, Second, 
l!) > i Kaneschandra Sengupta, Third. 

•‘iVi Mamkkmnnr Basil, Second. 

ID<5 Snnatkiunar Ray, Second. 
r.HiS Sul, rat a Raychaudliuri, First. 

■W*- 'lahndranalii Haidar, Second. 

4!k] A Mm kn mar (Jhosh, Second. 

4 M "5 A runkutnar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

Itahmdi anath Biswas (Ca*), First. 

I>k7 Unshikcs Cliakraharti (Ca), First. 
-Iji7s S\ amalctidu Chaudhun, Second. 

I!k!) (Johmdachandra Karninkar, Second. 
l!Nn Knslinngnmranga Saha, Second. 

‘ ( K J Asil-kuniar Sarkar, Third. 

Pranahkumar Bliatiacharyya, Second, 
lisp llauptkumar Mukhopadhyay Second. 

, ' Anathbandhu Clink rmharii. Third. 

LN'.i Sk .Mohammed Awalia, Third. 

(!;!., {h'dnndranath Bhattucharyya, Third. 
Mdiir Rain, Second. 


15)5)9 
H ) | 

50% 
•Vili, 
old A 
•Vd i 
oil 17, 

od-Jii 

•X’l 
oll'J.t 
ol >'Jo 
oOJn 
oD.il i 
Xi 
oD-ili 
on id 

oil JO 
odl A 
of Mo 
oD U] 
odtw 

oil id 

5<f,o 

i^lol 

'fm 

go.-* i 

P05$ 


Ainnle.schandra Smhnray, Third, 
ilansadhan Nandi, Second. 
Coshthahihan Maiti. Third. 

Mdanranjan Mukhopadhyay, Third, 
dagaha-ndhu Biswas, Second. 
Nagendranath (Julia, Second, 
^arayamhamlra Adhikan, First. 

klin rnay Dasgupta, Third. 

Pchiprasad Cha-ttopadhvav, Second. 

1 rndyotkumar (Jhosh. Tliird. 

Aaiescha ndra Chakrabarti, Second. 

* niitkmnnr Mitra. Second. 

»asad Horen], Third. 

Jfin Smgh, Secr/nd. 
ratiabkumar Sengupta, Second. 

Mnipam Gupta. Third. 
r >d,j r Datta, Third, 
nshikeschftndra Chakrabarti, Second, 
{vnshnalal Das, Third. 

ebahrata Mukliopadbyay, Second. 

\i L d ? s Datta < Second. 

■ hnkumar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

ipendrakumar Datta, Second. 
\ht''T*V' n , Ch *«dhuri, Third. 

Adhi i3 ra clia H ra,:)ar ti, Third. 

Sait C ^ a krabarti, Third. 

Chakrabarti, Second. 
?ha ndra Das, Third. 


i:r»so of 


fl(K>2 'rarunkumar Majmndnr. Second. 

.‘>IKi7 Nunuichand Datta, Kirst. 
oO(»8 Alrmalkanti Majuimlar, First. 
o()70 Prem Sanker Pandey, Second. 
o(l7l Kul Bhushan, Third. 

.01)78 Pradipkiinia>r BaiuBopadhvay, Third. 
bt)7M Kalulas .M ukhopadhyay , Third. 

5)881 Sabujbaran Band\ opadliyay. Second. 
0884 Alrit.viiiijny Bagchi. Third. 

0407 Pranahkumar Bal, Third. 

0115 Asokknmar Raychaudliuri, Second. 
5>.o05 Shridhar Sharma, First. 


868-0 

8077 

8078 
8070 
85)80 
8081 
8082 
8088 

8084 

8085 

8086 
8080 
85)00 
8001 
805)2 
85)5)4 
8006 
8<)0H 
8005) 
1000 
tool 
1002 
1008 
1006 

1007 

1008 
1010 

4011 

4012 
4018 
1017 
4018 
1010 
4022 
4028 
1025 
1080 


1081 


4085 

1086 

1087 


1088 

1010 

ion 


4018 
1014 
4016 
1017 
4058 
4R5 1 
1056 
4060 
1061 
4062 
4068 
4064 
4067 
4060 

4070 
4078 

4071 
4075 


4076 

4078 

4070 

4081 

4082 
4088 

4084 

4085 
4080 

4098 

4007 

4008 

4099 


Asutosh college for Women. 

ROLL CAL. F. 

Sutapn Bhattasali, Second. 

Mandirn Chattopadhynv, Second. 

Dhira Cha-ttopadhyay. Third. 

Reha Chandra, Third. 

Maya Dus, Second 
Sephali Majuimlar. Second. 

Suhhra M ukhopadhyay. Third. 

-lyotsna Pal, Tliird. 

Usha Ray, Thud. 

Blmra»ti Ray, Third. 

Si han i Biswas, Second. 

Blnirat i Datta, Third. 

Savina 1 1 De, Second. 

.Minakshi (Jupta, Second. 

Reklia (Jangopadhvay, S(»cond. 

Archatia (Jhosh, 'I’lnrd. 

I 1 ma Moluwita, Third. 

Mahamayu M ukhopadhyay, I'bird. 

Siprn Mukhopadliyav, Second. 

Snigdha M ukhopadhyay, Serond. 

Bharati M ukhopadhyay, 'I'hird. 

Madhuri Mukhopmliiyay, Third. 

Aruiulliat i M ukhopadhyay, Third. 

Anuta Sen, Third. 

Reklia Basu, Third. 

Swapna Cliaudhuri. Second 
Lakshim Mitra, Third. 

Punimia (Jhosh, Second. 

Piinuma Dattaray, First. 

Mmati Aich, Second. 

Suiatta Sarkar, Third. 

Sriickha, SarhadhikiM'i. Secoml 

Rama (Jhosh, 1 (Rcgn. No :W)-V.)0 ot 1057-58), Third. 
Amnia (Julia, Tliird. 

Lakslinu Smiiaddar, Tliird. 

Alta Chntlnpadlnii'X , 'llnrd 

-Maya Chattopadhyay, I (Rcgn. No. 28082 of J058- 
50) , Third. 

Bamimia (’lmkraharti. I (Rcgn. No. 2JMKW of 1058- 
50), Third. 

Bharati Sengupta, S<‘eoml. 

Chit raleklia Nandi, Second. 

Maya ( 'hattopadh.Miv, 11 (Rcgn No. 28081 of 1058- 
50), Third. 

Main Datta, II (Rcgn No. 28126 of 1058-50), Second. 
Swapna (Jangopa-dhyay, 'I’hird. 

Mamata CJlmsJi, 1, (Rcgn. No. 28180 ot # 1058-50), 
4’lurd. 

Ratna Alukhopa»lh.N a> , Thiul. 

Minna ta Rav, Third. 

(Jita Ray. I! (Rogn. No. 28200 of 1058-55)), Third. 
Pnrnuna Sarkar, Seeond 
Si la Datta, Third. 

Anita- Bhaumik. Second. 

Sohha Chattopadh> av , Third. 

Dipalt Datta, Third, 
limit a Nag, TTiird. 

Nandita M ukhopadhyay, Second. 

Malahika Miikhopndhyay, Third. 

Anita- Bhattacharvi a , Third. 

Mamata Basil. Third. 

Dhira (Jangopadhyay , Third. 

I'shn (Juna. Scct/nd. 

Krishna Brahma, Third. 

Rnlnn Chaudhuri, Third. c 

Puniinia Bhattacharyya, 1 (Regn. No. 28Q16 or 
15)58-55)), Third. 

Dipti (Jhoshchaudliuri, Third. 

Dipali CJhosh, Third. . 

Gita Ghosh, II (Regn. No 28174 of 1958 - 59 ), Third. 
Si pm Ghosh, Third. 

.Minakshi (Jangopudh.vay, Third. 

Alokann (Jangoparlhyay, Second. 

Mmati (Jupta, Third. 

Ruby Das, Third. 

Niluna- Datta. Third. 

Syamali Chattopadhyay, Second. 

Subhra Chattopadhyay, Third. 

Sila Chaudhuri, Second. 

Swsrtia Chaudhuri, Second. 


64 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


[Part ib 


4102 

41011 

1108 

4109 
411 1 
4 1 10 
4 1 22 
412* 
412(5 

4127 

4128 
412*> 

41 10 
41411 

4140 
4148 
41. *15 
4108 
4100 

4107 

4108 

4170 

4171 

1 1 70 

4182 
4 1 s: 1 

4181 

4189 

4191 

4192 

4190 

4190 

4197 

1198 

1199 
4200 
4202 
420:1 
4200 

4200 

4207 

4208 
4211 

421 :i 
4210 
4210 

4217 

4218 

4219 

4222 

4223 

4220 
4234 
4237 

4240 

4241 
4249 
4206 
4257 

4209 
4202 
4263 

4204 

4266 

4270 

4271 

4272 

4274 

4270 

4277 

4278 
42/9 

4280 

4281 

4282 

4283 

4284 
43*86 
'4287 

4288 

4289 

4290 

4291 

4292 

4293 


No., name and division. 

Ashutosh College for Women. 
ROLL CAL. F. 


II (Regn. No. 23050 of 1958 
(ltogn. No. 23041 of 1958-59), 


Third. 


Third. 

No. 


23308 of 1908-59), 


Krishna Ohakrabarti, 

59), Third. 

Dipti Chakriibarti, 1 
Third. 

HVTiuka Chakra ban ti, 

Kubhra Basil, Third. 

Sunandii Basil, Third. f T1»ir»1 

Snhhia Basil , 1 (Regn. No. 23001 of 1 J.j 8-.>9). Third. 
Minati Bandyopadhyav, Second. 

Arnti Bundyopadhyay, Second. 

Krishna Sairkar, 'iliird. 

Nival i Sarkar, Second. 

Chaitnli Sanynl, Third, 
fiila Sur, Second. 

Anpilikn Raychamlhun, 

N audits* Buy, 1 (Regn. 

Second. 

Nam i In Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

Gita Mukhopadhyay Third. 

Bushpa Mitra, Third. 

Baina Naskar. Third. 

Swaipna Nag, Third. 

Bisnnpriva Ka*rkar, Third. 

An jail i Sark air. Third. 

Aniaina Sairkar, Third. 

Krishna Basil, 1 (Regn. 

Second. 

N ilinui Sell gal. Third. 

Nundila Haifa, Second. 

I la I );it la*, Third. 

(dt ai Dal la. Second. 

I iiik shrill < 'hail topadhyay, 

(dt.ai ( 'haiidhun. Second. 

Lakshmi ( haki aiharii , Third. m-u ro\ 

Dipt, nmkrulmrti, 11 (K«'«n. No. 33012 of ItloB.W), 
Third. 

Bai«sn nti Chakraharti, Third. 

Sahila Chakraharti, Second. 

Minati Bagchi. Second 
( Jayatri Bagchi, Second. 

Jharna Basil, Third. 

Manjii Basil, 'Phird. 

Bum Basil. Third 
Krishna Ba*ui, 11 (Bcgn. 

Third. 

Nihlia Bhaduri, Third 
Sipra Baksi, Second. 

(dta Banik, Third. 

Purnima Bluiitacharyya, 11 
1908-59), Third. 

Nan dit, a Bliat lacluirvya. Second. 

Si I a* Bliat taeharyyai, Second. 

Sahila Bamh opndliyu.v , Second. 

Silai Bandyopadhyav, Second. 

Aparna Bandvopadhyay, II 
1908-09) , Tlnrd. 

Aparna Band.vopadhyay, 1 
1908-59) . Third. 

Polli Bandyopadhyav, Third. 

Bithika Bandvopadhyay, Second. 

Si lira De, Second. 


N«. 2298G of 1908-59), 


Second. 


No. 22987 of 1908-09), 


(liegn. No. 2.‘5015 of 


II (Regn. 

No. 

22947 

of 

1 (Regn. 

No. 

22948 

of 


Third. 


JVIanjo Pal. 'Phird 
Arunn Mukhopadhyay, 

Man.pi Mukhopadhyay, sect 
Syamali Mitra, Third. 

Mavu Haidar, Second. 

A rati Ghosh, II (Regn No. 

Prana I? (Jhosh, II (Begn 
Third. 

Manju Gangopadhyay, Second. 

Seba Saha. Third 
Sulekha Sen, 111 (Begn. No. 

Third. 

Anita Ra> ehandlmri, 'Phird. 

Chandnn.i Mnkhopadhyay, Third. 

Buhv Gnha, 'third. 

Amitn (inhal hakurc'* , Third. 

ITma Ba^gupta, l (Begn. No. 

Second. 

Lily Das, Third. 

Nirmala Lakshina nan. Second. 

Sobha Chandra, Second 
Sipia. Bha t taeharvva, Second. 

Kamka Chakraharti, Second. 

Sunanda Ray, Second. 

Sibani Gangopadhyav, Second. 
Chhanda Mitra, First. 

Alokananda Sen, First, 
s.inak* Das, First. 

Sibani Daitagupta, First. 

Chandana Sen, Third. 

Manjula Sen. Second. 

Sumitra Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

TJma Sarkar, Second. 

Sri Sarkar, Second. 

Madhuchhanda Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
Jaysri Mukhopadhyay, Third. 


23169 of 1908-59), First. 
No. 23183 of 1958-59), 


23361 of 1908-59), 


23120 of 1958-59), 


4294 

1290 

1296 

4297 

4298 

4299 

4300 

4301 

4302 

4:103 

4304 

4300 

4306 

1307 

4308 

1309 

4310 

4311 
1312 

4313 

1310 
4317 

1318 

1319 

13 k> 2 
1329 
1336 
1 33S 
1339 
! 110 
13 16 
1317 
1319 

1302 

1303 
1301 

I too 

1307 

1308 
l: 109 
1360 
4361 

1362 

1363 
4361 
4360 
1366 

4367 

4368 

1371 

1372 
13" 3 
437 1 
1370 
4377 
4380 

4382 

4383 

4384 
1380 

4387 

4388 
1389 

4392 

4393 
439! 

1397 

1398 
1101 

4402 
4 100 
4406 
4 107 
4411 
1112 

4110 
4116 
4118 

4422 
4427 
4432 
4 434 
4136 

4438 

4439 
4410 

4111 

4449 

4450 

4451 


No., name and division. 

Asutosti College for Women. 

ROLL CAL. F. 

Kimiitra Mnkhopadhyay, Third. 

Kabita Mitra, Third. 

Purabi Majunidar, Third. 

Sati Ghosbal, Third. 

Putul Clink rabarti. Third. 

Mukti ('hakrabarti, Second, 
lima Debi, Second. 

Krislinasri Ba.su, 'Phird. 
lblia Majunidar, Second. 

Mira Dai t». 'Phird. 

Nandita Kar, Kirst. 

Sibani Guharay, Second. 

Husnav Ara Begum, Second. 

Indira Basil, Third. 

.Jaha Chakra bnrli, Second. 

A nu radii a Clmndhuri, 'Phird 

Nandita Ray. IT (liegn. No. 23309 of 1 .)«j 8-59), lldrd. 
Dipti Bhattachnrvya, Second 

A n in li Datta, II (Regn. No. 23124 of 19 “859), 
Second . 


I (liegn. No. 22906 of im 


Snhrata Gliosh. Second. 

Bandana Gangopadhyay, Second. 

Sahila (Jhosh, Third. 

Krishna Chakraharti, 1 (liegn. No. 23019 ol 1B5S- 
09), Second. 

Sum i Ira Basil, Second. 

Chhanda T><\ 'Phird. 

llama Chnttopadhyay, 'Phird. 

Kalpana Mitra, Third. 

Hina Chiwidlmri, Second. 

Sanlikana (Jhosh, Third. 

Snlckha Mail-ra, 'Phird. 

Indrani Bay, Second. 

Pranati Kongiipla, 'Phird. 

Su pi i Pal. 'Phird. 

Irani Sengupla, First. 

Anjali Songupta. Second. 

4 a\ a nl i Basil, First. 

Chitra Dalit, Second. 

Aruna Bandyopadhyav, 'Phird. 

Bui a In Bliat turbary va, Third. 

Santi Biswas. 'Phird. 

(Jopa Bihsii, First. 

(Jila Bamlyonadhyay, 

09) Second. 

Bahv Das, Second. 

Muninsri (Jlioslml, First. 

J * i*i l i Chakraharti, 'Phird. 

Anunidlm Gupta, First. 

Anna kali Salm*, Second. 

Bani Brahma, Secmid. _ 

Minati Mnkhopadhyay, J (liegn. No 3061)6 ol 19/7- 
08), Second. 

Kama Basil, First. 

Klijasri Basil, Second. 

Namita Bandyopadhyav, Second. 
l T ma. Saherwnl, Second. 

Indira K. (Jidvaney, Third. 

Diishpn Son, TIi i rcl . 

Santa Bay, Third. 

Pnrnima Mukhopadhyay . 

Kanina M ukhopndhvny, 

A pt a Mi Ira. Second. 

Manpi Mitra, 'Phird. 

Bekhn Gha1.uk, Third. , 

Gita (Jhosh, 1 (liegn. No. 30098 of 1907-5M, 'Hunt 
Svamali (Jhosh, Second. 

I In Dasgnpt a, Third. 

Chhaya Chakraharti, Third. 

ITsha Chat loparlhyay , Third. 

Sahita Basil. Second. 

Kohhana Basil, Third. _ e in r 7 

Gita Bandvopadiiyay, III (Regn. No. 30397 of 1 • ' 
08), Second. 

Afirn Bandvopadhyay , Second. 

Dipti Sen, Second. 
iMava Sarkar, 'Phird. 

A rati Chakraharti (Mrs. Sarkar), Third. 

Bnnclana Bay, Third. 

Mini Knychaudhuri, Third. 

Snndhva Bay, Second. 

Mira Midye, Third. e \ 0 Sit- 

fJit.a Mnkhopadhvav, I (Regn. No. 30670 ot 
08), Third. 

Maya Majunidar, Third. 

Jharna Gnha. Third. 

Sabitrirani Ghosh, Third. 

Ba*ni Datta, I (Regn. No. 

Anjali Chakraharti, Third. 

Amita Chakraharti. Third. 

ITma Chakraharti, Third. 

.Tayasri Chaudhuri, Third. 

Kiamala Bharttaeharyya, Third. 

Samp Kaur Bindra, Second. 

Namita Biswas, Third. 

Jayanti Mukhopadhyay. I (Regn. No 
58), Third. 


Second. 

Third. 


30515 of 1957-58), TUrf- 


of I* 7 ' 



65 


j> a ht Ifl] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


No., name and division. 


No., name and division 


44.')J 
4-1.'. I 
4l.><> 

44n7 
4 l-> 
4U>1 

■|M 

4l‘d 

41^ 

417" 

14471 

it; 

[4l7i> 
4177 
417s 
M IMt 
14 !•*- 

Ur.x 1 
4 r* i 

4 !!>•’> 

44'll> 

4 1**7 
1 1'.»* 
41W 
4,MH 
47>i)2 
4MU 
4.)Hl 
47)1)0 
47)(i i 
17)11.^ 

4 '.00 
i * nj 
i ' i - 
4M:i 
47)11 
47)l.j 
6tW» 


Asutosh College for Women. 

ROLL CAL. F. 

Cawitii Chakra bait i. Third. 

Itokiil Ghosh, I bird. 
i) tJ |)ji Guha, i bird. 

Sipiu Adhya, Third. 

Adhya, 'Ihird. 
j, )li;i .J(«irdar, Second. 

nnui Dandyopadh \ ay , I bird. 

<.,U Uia Ilayohaudhuri, Second. 

Dalai. Third. 

( 1 1 1 1 1 1 a N ag , Second . 

Vhonji Ji. lrn odi, Ihird. 

Uliai at' Chaiidhuri. Second. 

Miuiisha Dusu, r l bird. 

P„ 4 U 1 Cliattopudhya.v, Third. 

Gangopadhyay, Third. 

Him (Suhw. Third 
.} a\ asi'i Maitra. I hit cl. 

Mama Ray* 'hud 
M niiilvshi 1 5a.su , t hircl. 

I),I ,1 Chattopadhxftj , -Ihird. 

Sunn Datta, Second 
Tanima Gupta, Ihird. 

Smtakshnnv Kar, Second. 

i) \ ol siia Ramlyopadhyay (Mrs. Majnmdar), 
Knshmi Dalit, Third. 

In, lira Dutel, Third. 

,h„tsna Duiokh. Second. 

.bunder Kaur, Third. 

\ bakshnu, Second. 

Vs,,ka Cliatt opadhyivy, First, 
sudlia DosIm, Second. 

Man i u Dnrekli, Second. 

Wim \ aishnav, Second 
.ImiImui Katnani, First. 

U \ imitliamani. First, 
i; Msnt lull . Second. 

M s Saradha, Second. 

\. N. M sci tluli Chari, Second. 

Di'pali Rhuttucharyya, Third. 


Third. 


ROLL BARI. F. 

r,.' I > i p: 1 1 1 D.mdyopadhyay, Third. 


Bagatl Sreegopal Banerjee College. 

ROLL BAG ATI. F. 

2 'ranirna Rhat tnchnryya, Second. 

;t Syanuvli Bundyopadhyay, Third 
7 Rratnnu Das, Second. 

9 Duspha M ukliopadhyay, 'Ihird. 

11 Gu.Nutn Majnmdar, 'Ihird. 

12 lTatuna Chakrabarti, Second. 


Bagnan College. 

ROLL BAGNAN. 

5 'I'usharUaiit i Ghosh, Third. 

8 Kndhanath Santni*, Third 

II M uramnohait Maiti, Second. 

40 Jagatchandra l*al. Second 
.VI A iiintkiiniar Maiti, Second. 

-14 Madaninohau Ghosh, Second. 

41) Dilipkiimar Da.su, Second 

.Vi ibihncliandra Dora, Sec*ond. 
f,H Dalaram Khanra First. 

00 Sui eschandra Dal, Third. 

74 Nandahil Ghosh, Second 

Ml Anadicharan Mam dal. Third. 

97 Kisornnolian NayeU, 'Ihird. 

11)7 Gopibullabh Dliukta, Second. 

11:; Drasadchandra Khan, Ihird. 

III NiUlulkurnur llait, Second. 

121 Radlinsyani Khanra, Thud. 

147 Surendransith Jana, 'Ihird. 

1 ;VD Aiurnddha Rasut bakin’, Third. 

14.“* Madhusudan Dinda, Third. 

loS Rabindranath Guchhait, Third. 

1 00 dwindle Iowan Maiti, Second. 

Kit) Rabindranath Datta, Second. 

178 Ainiyakumar Dasn, Thud. 

179 Ajitansukumar Ditida, Second. 

182 Kshudiiam Dera, Fust. 

184 Md. D uliool Amin Mullah, First. 
221 Rabindranath Da*l, Second. 

221 Tusharkanti Ghoshal, 'Third. 


ROLL JAL. F. 


ROLL BAGNAN F. 


22 I mil. mi Dliaumik, Third. 

N on-collegiate Students, Asutosh College for 
ROLL CAL. F.N. 

1M7)S .Vim it a Son. 'Third 
2 1 . » (.ami Scnguptii, Third. 


Annua Daschsiudhuri, "Third. 
Cilia Datta, First. 

Women. 6 Dipah Dandyopadliyay , Second. 

0 s,*ti Dasnras chaudhun, 'Third. 
12 T i i ] » t i Damt\opadliya> , 'Third. 
14 Sim ill Rebi, Second. 

14 Delia Rhanja, 'Third. 

20 Anjali Ghoshal, Third. 


Asutosh College of Commeroo. 
ROLL CAL. 

Iblipkumar Das, Second. 


Bagati Sreegopal Banerjec College. 

ROLL BAGATI. 

'} Golmnlhaiihihari Dag, Second. 

•> Niki ip.nta diatlopi.dhx ay, Second. 

^ I has Ah Mondol, Second. 

( i lm la in Mahhuh, Second, 
d Sanat kuniar Mandal, 'Third. 

, l’r;wial)lviiinar Ghosh, 'Third 
* H muidianat h Ghoshal, 'Third, 

*,:! -'hi Mask umar Datia, Third. 
r>‘2 J'aclumli.niath Dhattacliary.va, Second. 
Duui haiullm Sadhuklum. Third 
-Munladulal Ghosh, Third. 

* >u v/ M ‘h ana tli Dandvopadhyav, 'Third 
T. Abdul Ali, Third' 

‘"’Oa-opal Datta, Second. 

' Nfixaimra.van Ghosh, 'Third. 

47 . iU Jhnnoliumlra Mandal, Third, 
li r ,'! n "" -'Itmilul, Tliird. 

Oil 7; Kl,l, "-»»ijaii Dus, Third 
r,l Mukh<.|m<ll,y:.v, Third 

\ h^ lllllJ, r M 11 kho|mdhvay , S('c</il(l. 

.')! s , liiiaUarhai vya,' Sei rtmi. 

S Th’ird° Padhya,y ’ S0C0 " d - 

Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
u ‘ Second 

60 ii“, ,,,,u } rai)a th Sen First. 

62 fc lav Third. 


50 Xnm ,mith Das ’ Third 
Dr.,n'i n J Ur M ”hhopadl. )V ay, 

54) j> A jk umar ,la^, Second 
60 la nu raimth First. 

62 " Dal, Tliird 

65 NcubIpv;™ 1 , 1>B| . Third. 

ft «-palchonara Ghosh, Second. 


Balshnabghata Dtnabandhu Andrews College. 
ROLL CAL. 


: »2* > 8 

:>2.t2 
.428-1 
42.; I 

4247 

4248 

4249 
42 Id 
42 1 1 
42 12 
4214 
424 7 

4048 

4049 
4019 
4011 
4012 
1014 
401 l 
4619 

4660 

4661 
4654 
4057 
4 67*8 

4600 

4601 

4662 
4000 
4668 

4670 

4671 

4672 
9555 


Submit a Gangopadln a*y , Sccoml. 

.1 nciidraiiath ( JangopadliN ay , Second. 
K:i lipao.i Ibsens, 'Third 
Dircuidranath Darmaii. First. 
DakulhiluHi Darman, Thud 
ITpishkaiiti Dasgupt a. First. 

( hanchal Dhnt t acharyya. Sccoml. 
Dadhaki lshna Diadhan, Second. 
Dam‘schandru M :H|uindar, First. 

S\\ apaiikiimar 'lapaswi. First. 
D'alnndraprasad Day, Socc/nd. 
Chitrabhanu Sen. Second. 

Kadhaua 1 1) Da-s, Second. 

Ahhijit Chaudhuri, 'Third. 

Nmnalcndu S«*ngupta. Second. 
Sainucsprasad Ghosh, hirst, 
(birupada Jana, 'Third. 

>»ai opiaraN a-n Misia, Second. 
Manoniohati Mukhopadhyay First. 
Xit \ nitunda Kaiinakiir, Second. 

Dipa kchandra De. Second. 
Subirkmuar Dat ta-gupln. Second. 
Niradbarnn Mandal, Second. 

Sankar Gnngopadliyav , 'Third. 
Tavapada Datta, Second. 

SiW’ndindu (Diosb, 'Third. 

Aklulkiinia r Mukhopadhyay, Socimd. 
Dilipkiimar Simlni, 'Third 
Dayalcliamira Sinha, Third. 

Samares Dhar, Third. 

Dalai Ray, Second. 

Bimalchandra Ghattopadhyay, Tb^rd. 
Dulalchandra Dardhan, Second. 
Sadhanchandra Das, Second. 
Chittaranjan De, Firot. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 




fPARTIJ 


No., name and division. 

Baishnabghata Dinabandhu Andrews College. 

ROLL CAL. F. 

3083 Hum Ghosh, Third. 

3087 Sibaui Sen, Second. 

3089 Lina Alajumdar. Seeond. 

3090 Alanisha Nandi. Third. 

3091 Hulbuli Bhattacharyya, Third. 

3090 Lutika Bhatti*ehnrvya, Third. 

3097 Sihani Bhuttaeharyyu, Seeond. 

3098 rrabharani Alaiumdar. Third. 

53t )G Sikha Guha, Seeond. 

5367 Tina Ghosh, First. 

5.309 Hratiblia Blunt Ucharvya, Seeond. 

5370 Hulti Kargupta, Seeond. 

5371 Alanjula Hliuttaehar.v.va^ Second. 

5372 lima Bamhopadhx u\ , First. 

5373 Silmni Hay, Seeond. 

5374 Indira Chaudhuri. Tlnrd. 

5377 Nmniila Band.x opadhyay, Seeond 

5378 Sihani Ihswas, f Tlnrd. 

5:184 Sabitaram Duwinajumdar, Third. 

5.^5 Gitikn Hay, 'Third. 

5387 Sila Hayehaudhnri , Second. 

5.‘188 Kamala Kar, Sc*eoiid. 

5,389 Sucheta Blunt turbary va. Second. 

5390 Hela ( 'hakrabarti, 'Third 
5392 Anita Hoddar, 'Third. 

5390 Hhanunmti Alajumdar, Third. 

531)7 Nanuta l)el>. Third. 

5100 .Inthika Hhauinik, Second. 

5401 Huina Sen, 'Third 

5104 Sandhya Ga»ngopadh\ ay. Third. 

5405 Hahitra Chawlhun, Third. 

5410 Ahha Hay, 'Third. 

5418 Sipra Alukhopadhyay, 'Third. 

5423 Aparna Bundyopndhx uy , Tlnrd. 

5425 Gita Him ttacinnry.x a, 'Third. 

6420 Dipti Alukhonadh\av, Third. 

5427 May a Nag, Third. 

5429 Hliarati Chakraharti, Third. 


ROLL BALUR. 

Balurghat College. 

1 Ninnalkanti Ala.iunuhnr, Third. 

2 Nircndrakiiiiiar Slnlia, Second. 

3 Hirendranath Alnndal, 'Third. 

4 Asewhknniar ( 'hat topadliyav. Second. 

5 Hasudeh Cliakruhnrli, Second. 

0 Siwitoshknmar Hasak, Second. 

8 San kar Chakraharti, I (H^n. No. 23109 of 1959-00), 

Seeond. 

9 Hiswanath Kiindu. 'Third. 

10 Guncscluindra Chakraharti, Second. 

11 Kantiranjan Tapaswi, First. 

13 Mivlaykuniar Sinharav, 'Third. 

14 Kanakranjan Talnkdar, First.. 

15 I larendranath Sarkar, Seermd 
18 Kumnreschandra Salm, Second. 

20 Hulakeiulu Aeliuryxin, Second 

22 Hisu aranjati Hliat-i aeliaryya. Third. 

23 (iopalehandra Sarkar, Third. 

21 Haihindranath Sarkar, Seeond. 

27 Asokkumui Salm, 'Third. 

3.3 .1 ibankrislina Kundn, Fiist. 

31 w Nimmranjan Saha, Second. 

38 Hanendranat h Sarkar, 'Third. 

39 Atindranatli Hand.\ opadhyay. Second. 

13 Suhratakurnar l)e. Second. 

45 Haricharan M uncial. Third. 

58 Jihankrishtm Das, Second. 

02 Ninnalkanti Ghosh, Third. 

07 Hrajamadhub Saha, 'i’ll ini. 

09 Dilipkiiiuar Hayehaudhnri, Tliird. 

70 Aptkumar Del), Third. 

71 Dukari Mandal, Third. 

74 Dilipkiiiuar Hhauinik. Third. 

77 Ahunikaiitu Sarkai , Second. 

79 Arunkuinar Sanval, Second. 

84 Hrivatosh Hrahtna, Third. 

87 Susilchandra Ghosh, Second. 

89 Anilehandra Haidar, Second. 

93 Adhirkumar Mandal, Second. 

94 Saniayrarijan Rudra, Third. 

98 Sunilkuiimr Basil, Third. 

99 Sukhenduiuohan Chakraharti, Third. 

101 Nihnrendranath Chakraharti. Third. 

104 Du ijendranath Ghosh. Second. 

105 Debansu Biswas Third. 

108 Ciiapalkumar Saha, Second. 

109 Udaysankar Burnk, Third. 

Ill Md Hafiz TJddin Alunshi, Third. 

113 Pranab Ray, Third. 

114 Subhashchandra Majmndar. Third. 

115 Bhabesnarayan Ghosh, Third. 

117 Malaykumar Biswas, Third. 

120 Peb^ichandra Das, Second, 


No., name and division. 

Balurghat College 

ROLL BALUR. 

121 Haoscn Ali, Third. 

125 Aid. Sahiruddin Mian, 'Tliird. 

132 Ajitranjan Hudra, Second. 

133 Gaurangachamlra Sarkar, Third. 
1.38 Aswinikumar Das, Third. 

139 Krishnapada Kundu. Second. 

1 10 Bikasranjati Majumclar, Second. 

141 Sat.vendranath Ghosh, Third. 

142 Sankar Chattopudhyay, First. 

143 Bijankumar Chaki, Third. 


ROLL BALUR. F. 

2 Silk la Dassarma, Third. 

3 Alinati Sengupta, Third. 

7 Kalpann Guha, Third. 

8 Kanika Sarkar, Second. 

9 Sulekha Guha, Third. 

10 Dipali Sarkar, Third. 

Jl Alanjiiri Sarkar, Third. 

17 Hinapani Datta. Third. 

18 Hena Chakraharti, Second. 

20 Nandita Bagehi, First. 

22 Nilima Ray, Third. 

20 Nilima Chakraharti, Second. 

27 Ha ml Lahiri, 'Third. 

28 Nina A! ukhopadhyay, Third. 

29 Hurahi Sarkar, Second. 

30 Mukti Bandyopadh> ay. Third. 

31 Mira Ghosh, Second. 

34 Sabita Alajumdar, Third. 

<10 Mira Lahiri, First. 

41 Gauri Chaudhuri, Third. 


ROLL JAL. F. 

21 Suk la Naha, Third. 


Bangabasi College 

ROLL CAL. 

1 Ajitkuniar Chaiidhuri, Tliird. 

3 Chandrasckbai (.’hakrabarti, Third. 

5 Alihirkunti Basil, Third. 

7 Anantaraiu Buirngi, Third. 

8 Bmialkuinai Chandra, 'Hiird. 

J I Gaiirchandra Haisya, Second. 

13 Sandwipkuinar Bandy opadhyay, Tbiid 
10 .la ha rial Chat topadhyay , Third. 

19 Binuilkuinar Dasgupta, Third. 

20 Saralkuruur Ghosh, First. 

30 Sudhindrunarayan Lahiri, 'I bird. 

31 'Tarapadu Alukhopadhyay, 'i'hird. 

32 Samirkanti Hal, Third. 

34 Nepulchundra Ray, Second. 

35 Hradip Raychaudhuri, Second. 

.‘18 Tapaskuumr Sanyal, Third. 

39 Anathhandhu Sardar, 'J bird. 

41 Hanchuchandra Sinha, 'Third. 

43 IX'haprasad Karmakar, Second. 

41 Ilaripada Ghosh. Third. 

45 Mrinalkanti Sinliarny, Second. 

47 Satyanarayan Hal, Third. 

50 Dehdas Alukhopadhyay, Third. 

01 Juyantakiimar Ghosh, 'Third. 

02 Amarendtanal h Goswnnii, Third. 

05 Harebrahma Niyogi, Third. 

07 Gadudhar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

08 ITtmisankar Bhattacharyya Third. 

71 Kamalkanti Sarkhel, Third. 

74 Hraphullakuinar Haidar, Third. 

70 Sailendrakuniar Gangopadhyay, Third. 
78 Bharutchandra Das, Third. 

80 Tapan Dasgupta, Third. 

83 Sukumar Datta, Third. 

87 Sunilkuinar Chat.topadhyay, Third. 

89 Arabindasekhar Chakraharti, Second. 
93 Mrinalkanti Bhattacharyya, Third. 

95 Gobindalal Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

97 Sannyasicharan Mandal, Third. 

99 Prasantakumar Ghosh, Third. 

100 Aladhusudan Ghosh, Third. 

101 Nirnial Ghosh, Third. 

102 Busudcb De, Third. 

105 Ainivakumar Dhar, Second. 

107 Ditis Kargupta, Second. 

110 Kaliranjan Jadab, Tliird. 

119 Sekhares Ray, Third. 

124 Sarojkumar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

127 Basudeb Biswas, Second. 

128 Sujitkumar Chattopadbyay, Second. 

129 Asutosh Chaudhuri, Second. 
Bhudebkumar Chaudhuri, Third. 

131 Gopalchandra Chattopadbyay, Third. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


6? 


Pakt IB] 


imm 

I. 47 
140 
1 11? 
II.* 
in 
ir> 
147 
1 I* 
1-70 
17M 
17)1 

i.v» 

1 7>7 
1-7S 

him 

Km 

171 

J7:» 

17b 

17!* 

151 

152 
mi 
1S7 
Iks 

IK!) 
l!)(l 
JU.7 
Ji 17 
JIM 
4, J ( ) 
J*57 

J. 7J 
277 
j:><; 

J H 
279 
JfV * 
J<17 
JK7 

JX<) 
j! K ) 

J! * 1 
J!*M 
J ( »l 
jm;, 

J!N 
Ml » J 
MUM 
MU1 
Min 
Ml >7 
Ml IS 
MO!) 
.7.79 
•7< » l 
.70 J 
.700. 
707 
1111 
1 1I J 
MIM 
Mil 
1 120 
IOM!l 
llill 
1012 
10 1M 
1040 
ltd!) 
Kw77 

1 2X7 
I99| 
l!*!*l 
20(H) 
2001 
‘Hnjr, 
2010 
2021) 
20j(; 
2027 
202k 
2020 
20MM 

20.U 

20M7 

2omh 

20M0 

2(M1 

20-45 

2049 
3050 

2050 


No., name and division. 

Bangabasi College. 

ROLL CAL. 

Hi males Patta, Third. 

Sainirkwnar Pas, Second. 

Aotkumar Kapas, First, 

Sunilkumar Mandal, Second. 

Psinchanan Sarkar, First. 

Ajaysankar Handyopadhyay, Second. 
iVhnibakumar I last'll ptu, Second. 
Asitkumar Sciigupta, Second. 

Dilipkuniar Adiiya, Third. 

Alnrariinohuii Chattopadhy ay, Second. 
Simkarprasad Handyopadhyay, Second. 

S\ anialkumar Chakraharti, Second. 
Sitaram Manual, Third. 

Manojknmar Chakraharti, Third. 
Tanuikanti Chakraharti, Third. 
Rhatikchuiulra Patra, Third. 

Samirkiinti Chnudlmri, Second, 
biipkumar Basil, Third. 

Vmalkiniiar Pas, Second. 

Prnrinhkanti Sinhn, Third. 

|» nihli u Nath Prasad, Third. 

Manohar Keswnni, Second. 
Amarendranath Chakrnbarti, Second. 
Sainiiknmnr Basil, Second. 

Sitansu Chakraharti, Third. 

M ukulesehandra Khan, Third. 
Samarendranath Gupta, Second, 
(iopikrishna. Adhikari, Second. 

Ahhirnni Tewari, Second. 

Asokknmar Mukhopadliyay, Second. 
Rabindranath ('haudhuri. Second. 
Taiapada (lan^opadhya.v , Second. 
Dilipkuniar Pas, Second. 

\simkiimar Chakraharti, Second. 
Rakshmipada Pas, Tliird. 

Ilipi \ krishna Pc, 'Hurd. 

Sal varan, jan Pc, Second. 

Swadesranjan De. Third. 

Riasantakumar Ghosh, Second. 

Asulosh Hay, Third. 

Dmeschandra Saha, Tliird. 

N.iliiurunpin Basil, Second. 

Madamnohan Beliara, Tlmd. 
Subhashchandra Handyopadhyay , Second. 
I)asarathi Biswas Second. 

Tiilokes Biswas, Thiid. 

Ai (Idhenduhikas Band, Third. 

•lanardan Chakraharti, Second. 

•I.xlalx handra Hudra. Third, 
liohmdachandra Pas, Third. 

Hu eschandra Bhattaeharya. Second. 
Paachkarilal Ghosh, Second. 

Sihdas Nath, Third. 

Dipakkumar Son, Second. 

Nidhujiopai Pal, Third. 

Prana iik u mar Oita, Second. 

Pranahkuniar Pc, First. 

Satyahrata Ghosh, Third, 

Tamnkmnar Kenijiipta, Second. 
Tarunktumir Maitra. Third. 

Hmayhiishan Pas, Third. 

Santoshk uniar Chakraharti, Third. 
Hamkrishna Pam, Third. 

Sunilkumar Pas, Second. 

Siisilkinmir Pc, Third. 

•Vmijkuimir Peh, Second. 

Pi aphullakumnr Mandal, Third. 
Miliirkumar Kapat, Second. 

Suapank umar Mukhopadliyay, First. 
Panmaykuniar Nag, Third. 

Niranjan Sinhachaudhuri, Third. 
Bimalchandra Ghosli, Third. 
Suhaschandra M ukhopadhvav, Third 
Kumudbandhu Deb, Third. * 

■ ra.iuj>ati Bay, Third. 

S'lkomalchandra Hay, Third. 

•Hanoranjan Bajak, Secoml. 
Hanendrachandra Pal, Third. 
SribuKchandra Pal, Third. 

* ninnnth M ukhopndhvnv, Third, 
^atyacharan Laha, Third. 

iswamohan Bahiri, Second, 
miulkrishna Ghoshdastidar, Third. 
Hajendnuiath Giri, Third. 

• aratkuniar Goswami, Third, 
^'tyanarayan Goswami, Third. 

‘amhanan Ghosh, Second. 
7,i':’’ tlrn , ku "' a !' G1,,wh . Third. 

S n 7 1 r' IUmoh " n Ghosh ' Third. 

Snt; »,li’ k t um s r l)as - Swond. 

H „ iV , r ' lanc,ra Omh, Third. 

Hm«lkumar Das. Third. 

seSS5sssi» 


No., name and division. 

Bangabasi College 
ROLL CAL. 

2057 Krishna Chakraharti, Third. 

2058 Gohtndalal Chakraharti, Second. 

2000 Sibdas Bhaumik, Second. 

2005 Prabhatkiiniar Basu, Second. 

2070 Ajitkumar Bhattachary ya, Third. 

2070 Amarkumar Bandyopadhyay, 'Phird. 

2075 Arunkuinar Bandyopadhyay, Secoml. 

2082 Sankurkumur Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
20841 Suhirkumar Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

2084 Sujilkuimir Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

2080 Muiishi Mahbub Klohi, Third. 

2001 Md. Alum"ir, Thud. 

2000 Kliayrul Anain, Third, 

2000 Bimal Sinharuy, Tlind. 

2100 Sud ha may Si 1 , Third. 

2100 Khagcndrauath Sahu, Third. 

2107 Bijiiykumar Sanyal, Second. 

2111 Binodchundra Sarkar, Second. 

2120 Pululchaiidra Ghosh, Third. 

2124 Dilipkuniar Peh, 'Phird. 

2127 Nityagopnl Pc, 'Phird. 

2128 R a^hoiiath l)c, Third. 

2120 Ratneswar Pe, Second. 

2100 Samirranjan l)c, Third. 

2101 Syainaleridii Pas^upta, Third. 

2102 Adwaitucharan Patta, Third. 

21.08 Gohiiul Ball, Third. 

21 42 Brajahallabh Saha, 'Phird. 

2140 Sehabrata Palit, 'Phird. 

2111 Bipinhihan Pradhaii, 'Phird. 

21 15 Trihikram Mahapatra, Second. 

21 40 Arunkumar Guha, Third. 

2148 Mohitraiijan Phar, Second. 

2140 Bishnupada Palui, Third. 

2152 Satyapriya ( haudhuri, Third. 

2154 Tarakiuuar Chakraharti, Third. 

2157 Boknnth Chakraharti, 'Phird. 

2102 Rabindranath Chakraharti, Third. 

210.0 Gane.xehundra Chat Lopudliyuy, Second. 
2100 Ghuii Shy a in Suit'll, Third. 

2170 Sailasadhan Sarkai , Third. 

217!) Susilkumar J)c, 'lliird. 

218.0 Dulal Cliaudhun, 'Phird. 

2185 Sailendranath Chakraharti, Third. 

2180 Asitraiijan Chakraharti, Second. 

2100 Niirayanchundra Basil, Third. 

2I!U Pnyahrata Mukhopadliyay, 'Phi i cl. 

2107 Nur Narayan Prasad, Second. 

2201 Narahallnv Pcka, Second. 

2202 It. K. Varina, Third. 

2200 Kamalcs Chakra hai ti , Third. 

2208 Sukchand Haidar, Third. 

2210 Gaiieschandru Kar, Third. 

2212 Niranjan Podh, 'Phird. 

2215 Jiitaubiharj Majumdar, Third. 

2218 Asakumar Pas, Third. 

2220 Saiiurbliushaii Pas, Third. 

2222 Syamsiindar Das, Second. 

222.0 Sunilkumar Das, Second. 

2220 Asukendu Dasi'iiptn, Second. 

2228 Gopaldas Datta, 'Phird. 

2200 Manoranjan Datta, Second. 

2202 Sachindranath Patta, Third. 

2200 Sainirkutiiar Chattopadhyay, SiTond. 
22414 'Parapada Chel, 'Phird. 

2240 Uasiidch Chakraharti, Second. 

2212 Dipakrnnpiu Biswas, 'Second. 

22 441 ITneschandru Bhaumik, Second. 

2244 Jibank umar Bhattachuryya, Second. 

2248 Dehi rati jan Basu. Second. 

2257 Sudhirciiandra P radium, Second. 

2258 Santijihan Nandi, Kirst. 

2201 Radharanjan Pal, Second. 

2202 Taraprasad Mukhopadliyay, Third. 

2200 Paresihandra Manila!, Third. 

22<»7 Dilipkuniar Mukhojiadhyay, Second. 

2208 Gobindachandra Mukhopadliyay. Second. 
2200 Nanigopal Mukhopadliyay, First. 

2270 Prithwiraj Mukhopadliyay, Second. 

2271 Santiranjaii Patta, Second. 

2270 Niranjan Dattabanik, Second. 

2274 Gaurangaprasad Pe, Third. 

2275 Nanigopal Pehnath, 'Phinl. 

2270 Anadicharan Phara, Third. 

2277 Sumlrunjan Pharchnudliuri, First. 

2278 Manindranath Gliatak, Second. 

2279 Jitansukumar Ghosh, Second. 

2280 Ksliudiram Ghosh, Third. 

2281 Narendranath Ghosh, Second. 

22&3 Parimal Ghosh, Second. 

2285 Tusharkanti Ghosh, Second. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29 , 1962 


[Part 


G8 


No., name ami division. 

Bangabasi College 
ROLL CAL. 

2286 Brujulul Goswuimi, Third. 

2287 Kitulprnsud Giuhhait, Second. 

228ft Hrishikes Gupta, Third. 

2204 Ajitkiimur Hay, Third. 

22ft4 Guiirpndn Huy, Thiid. 

22ftft Biswanath Saha, Thiid. 

2400 llnriprusad Saha, Thud. 

2.‘H)1 Stiiiilkiiinar Saha, Third. 

2404 Gopalchandra Sarkar, Third. 

2405 Pareschniidra Sarkar, Third. 

2^100 San jit kiiniai Sarkar, Tlmd. 

2407 Aiiilkuniar Sniguptu, Second. 

240?) Bijnykiimai Sengupta, Third. 

2.‘l 10 .layant akuiuar Sengupta, Second. 

2414 Nalmuaiijan Sui , Second. 

2: nr, liuluhhusiuin Topdur, First.. 

2: UO Donat us Darn. Thud. 

241?) N atida Lai ,Jayas\val. Third. 

2020 Mcjfli Hai .losln. Third. 

2021 .Mahahu Prasad Agurwnln. Second. 

2424 Batakrishna Beheru, Third. 

2.424 Sudarsan Saint, 'I'liird. 

2.428 Sarojkiiiiiar Saikar, Second 
2.441 Hat hmdranat h Nan, Third. 

24.42 Pusupati Mnkhopadhyay , Seeoml. 

2.4.45 Nirmalendu Biswas, Thiid. 

2.4.47 Husudeb ILswas, Second. 

2.4.48 Haihitulranarax an llliamnik. Third. 

2.44ft Jhirada Bha ttaclmryya, Second. 

2410 Amal llasu, Second. 

2411 Naniiadaranian Band.vopadhyay , Second. 
4251 Punknjnurnyan Biswas, Third. 

4254 Gaurangahan Chattopadhyay , Second. 
4202 Venkntesaii Srmivusan, Third. 

4284 Dehahrata Majtimdar, Third. 

4288 Gutirungachandra Datta, Third. 

428ft Samircliaiuli a Datta, Second. 

42ft?) Md. Kurus Ali Mullah, Third. 

4404 Anmieshkuniar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
,4408 Sachiiidranath ilaldar, Third. 

4417 Suhliashchamlra Das, Second. 

508?) »7i tendru mi 41 1 Hav, 4 bird. 

50?)l Kesahehandra Das, Third. 

50ft2 A sit ha ran (h.iudhun, Third. 

?)520 Aptkimiar Ghosh. Second. 

0522 Sy a m ka mu Das, Third. 

?)50?) Suhirkiiinai Hay, Thiid. 

ROLL BUR. 

308 Tushaikanti (4inudhuri, Third. 

ROLL CONT. 

400 Susantakumar Das, Second. 

ROLL RANA. 

4?) Bipulranjan Sarkar, Third. 

ROLL RISH. 

88 Sitivisiildiushan Muklmpadliyay, Third. 

8ft Asok Ghattopndhvay, Second. 

ROLL UTTAR. 

274 Prompt Hay, Second. 


No., name and division. 

Bangaon Dlnabandhu Mahavidyalaya. 

ROLL BANG. 

58 Amnroschandra Ghosh, Third. 

5?) Prahhasknmar Biswas, Second. 

01 .Jadahchandra Biswas, Second. 

04 Ki ishnaprasad Chn ttopadhyay, Third. 

07 Nimaichamlra Nath, Third. 

71 Hamprnsad Biswas, Second. 

72 ifurubilns Bain, Second. 

7.4 Diptinath Bandyo])adhyay, Second. 

71 Kalasasi Biswas, Third. 

75 Dhirendranat h Mandal, Third. 

7(i Siidhirchamlra Bain, Third. 

77 Asimkumar Hahlar, Third. 

80 Asutosh Thukur, Third. 

85 Kalosasi Biswas, I, Tliird. 

?)4 Hahihur Hahaman, Third. 

?)5 Prasant akuiuar JM ukliopadhvay, Second. 

?K» Maiiornnjun Maitrn, Second. 

?)7 Kalipada Biswas, II, Third. 

ftft Sailcndramil h Chnkrabnrti, Second. 

100 Bijaylnl Sikdar, Second. 

101 Nareiidranath Mandal, First. 

106 Suinarcndrasckhar Pal, Thiid. 

J07 Haujaiikumar Chuiidhuii, Second. 

108 Narayanprasad Modak, Second. 

117 Santiranjaii Ghosh, Second. 

1 18 1 >hircndrannth Biswas, Third. 

121 Sudhisehandru Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

125 Nityugopal Das, Second. 

140 Sumaicndraprasad Ghosh, Second. 

144 Nahadwip Bhattacharyyn, Second. 

145 Krishtiapada Dan, Second. 

1 46 Susantakumar Saha, Second. 

I 12 Golum Hahman Mandal, Third. 

1 14 Satyaranjan Mandal, I'liird. 

14?) Anantakumar Biswas, Second. 

150 Kumtidranjan Biswas, Second. 

154 Lakshminaiayan Sinha, Second. 

156 Santoshkumar Biswas, Third. 

10.4 Bai Indiana th Mallik, Second. 

108 Dulalchandra Ghosh, Second. 

172 Auwniiil Islam, Tliird. 

180 Narayanchandi a Chattopadhyay, Second. 
18L Sukdeb Bagclu, First. 

18.4 Hiretidruchandru Hay, Third. 

18?) Bimalki lshna Ilaldar, Third. 

1?)| Kami tan Sarkar, Tliird. 

I ft [ Dulalchandra Pal, Third. 

1 ? >7 Kuhodhkumar Mitra, Second. 

200 Praphullaku iiih r Biswas, Thiid. 

207 Pranabkauti Biswas, Thud. 


ROLL BANG. F. 

2 Hckha Biswas, Third. 

4 Nihcdita Mitra, Third. 

6 Ptirnima Bandvopadh.vay , Third. 

7 Bunala Ghosh, Third. 

?) Hekha Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

1 1 Anpili Das, Second. 

12 Manjuruni Sin ha, Third. 

14 Sepliali Biswas, Third. 

1 l Maya Bisw'as, Second. 

15 Pritikana Basil, First. 

16 Gayatri Ghosh, First. 

17 Daya Saha. Third. 

J8 Sohharani Sikdar, Third. 

20 Smriti Basil, Third. 

21 Anima Pal, Third. 

23 11a Bisw'as, Third. 


Non-oollegiate Student, Bangabasi College. 
ROLL CAL. N. 


Bankura Christian College 
ROLL BANK. 


200 Hemjyoti Haidar, Tliinl. 


Bangaon Dinbandhu Mahavidyalaya 
ROLL BANG. 


5 Niranjan Majumdar, Third. 

0 Habimlrakumar Sur, Second. 

11 Pankujkiimar Gohlar, Third. 

12 Naliniranjan Goldar, Thud. 
14 Sisirkuniar Biswas, Third. 
16 Chittnrunjan Bala. Third. 

22 Premdas Pande, Third. 

24 Dimibaiidhu Biswas, Third. 
40 Anilendu Biswas, Third. 


47 Anilranjan Biswas, Third. 

38 Kartike^iaiidra Ghosh, Third. 
42 ^ITianimoliJNJi Sarkar, Second. 
ST Bhupendranatffv Amin, Second. 
4$ Dbananjay Third, 

in Niharendu Bistrms, Second, 

5Q BAmescbandra l\lhosh, Second. 


1 Himansusekhar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

2 Amuletidu Dasgupta, Second. 

7 Tarapada, Chandra, Third. 

?) Sarojkumar Bandvopadhyay, Third. 

11 Madanmohan Kundu, Third. 

14 Subodhchandra Das, Third. 

15 Mahadch Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

1?) Aloknath Sinha, Thiiii. ' 

21 Adityakumar Modak, Third. 

24 Chittaranjan Sinliamahapatra, Third. 
28 Sankarnarayan Dan, Second. 

40 Amalkumnr Khan, Second. 

44 Kiritihhushan Chattopadhyay, Third. 

45 Syamaprasad Sarkar. Third. 

4G Gopalchandra Pal, Third. 

47 Golam Nobi Molla, Third. 

49 Krishnamohan Misra, Second. 

52 Nimaichandra Bajpai^ Third. 

54 Amiyunimai Mahanti, Third. 

58 Rajendranath Pathak, Second. 

62 Samirkumar Chattopadhyay, Third, 

63 Priyabrata Chakrabarti, Second, 


IB] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


69 


Paht 


No., name and division. 

BMkura Christian Co I leg® 

ROLL BANK. 

Bbftjahari Pain, Third, 
sunilkmnar Mandal. First. 
r () sudhakar Daschakrabarti, Third. 

L i} (ialaram Mandal, Third. 

}(• ( 'liaiichalkuinar Bandyopadhyay, Third, 
v'd Halidas Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

^ Bjiniitkuniar Das, Third. 
j. ;{ a sit ha ran Chcl, Second. 

( m; Asolvktnnar Daschakrabarti, Second. 

W Aswiniknmar Mandal, Third. 

]{adlmk«nta Mahapatra, Third. 

<H) llalaram Sinha, Second. 

ill (bui i end ranath Chattopadhyay, Third. 

<ij Pjobodhchandra Kar, Second. 

oil Heniprasad Sinha, Second. 

i);, Suhhashchandra Hajra, Third. 

07 Hidvanidhi Das, Third, 
os Sukha may Layek, Third. 

00 Jn^abandhu Hakshit, Second. 

]ini Kalx ani prasad Sinhacliaudhuri, Third. 

]it> 1*« ill Tudu, Third. 

jnM Ra.-uimay Sinha, Third. 

ji)4 Vin.vkumnr Mukhopadhvay, Second. 

]ik> Kalikmkar Tantubay, Second. 

JD7 (bmamay Barik, Third. 

] Hi ,\s« mikiimar Kundu, Third, 
iil) Sihsankar Garain, First. 

ROLL PURULIA. 

1 l’r advotkuniar Bajpeyi, Third. 

ROLL BANK. F. 




1 Jax.isii Rasu, First. 

U Kabila Chakrabarti. Third. 

Ibit i < Miakra barl i , Second. 

1 Ibi. ii ah Chat lopadliyay, First. 

'> Knslmii Ghosh, Third. 

L 1 pasaiia Nandi. Second. 

7 \ ilima Khan, Third. 

■ v Sipra Gupta, First. 

!' Aticvi Gupta, Second. 

II Max a Gan^opmlhyay, Third. 

I (bixahi Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
Itisanti Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

1 luiulra Biswas, Second. 

■ \ l..iksluui Sahana, Second. 

- kakshini Chattopadhyay, Second. 
I h’ta Das^npta, Second. 

} ih’la Dasjjpiptn, Third, 

1 \ bliaya (Chanda, Second. 

Mini Rhal tacharvya, Third. 
Rianati Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
Vi'fiana |) ( . Second. 

Ib Uia Nlallik, Third. 

A.tJ.xani Chaudbun, Third. 


114 

!].“> 

lb; 

120 

p».) 

122 


2b 

.2(1 

22 

131 

12 (> 

111 

lob 

IV, 

lot 

1 62 
K2 

170 

171 

172 
172 
1*1 
1*7 
107 
200 

203 

204 
203 
20 « 
213 


Bankura Satttmilanl College 

ROLL BANK. 

Suk ha may Das, Second, 
la in pad a Pal, Second. 

Son i end ran a th Mukbopadhyay, Third. 
Aidipadr Riswas, Second. 

^adlian Chattopndhyav, Second. 

^uhofU, Dasmipta, Second, 
n i ink chandra Baba, Second. 

^'>umatb Mandal. Second 
A ^«rwala, Third. 

rcnd.anal h Chat topadhvay. Third, 
n ’ .Chattopndh.Miy, Third. 

K .; ! ; k r r ( Handynpadhvay , Third. 

a .V / 1 Tan Dihay, First. 

Ashrahj] Hoqne, Third. 

\hihh,° ,ftn *' hilU °pndhyay, Second. 

.! L ” n Pat,, a. Third. 

Ki.»T kn P 1 ? P Sarkar > R^ond. 

Third - 

N-in. Iknmar Gnpta. Second. 

|{, n :'( an Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

Deosharia, Second. 

{>Sh^r d fe 8eoond - 

S.dhfr>d th £* tra ’ Krst - 

s T»man;!” d , ra „?» ,ta . Second. 
^nup’df^^atUchwyya, Third. 

Santo ’ ! ar Das. Third. 

Sudhir S &" w P*}, Second. 

er Mukhopadhyay, Second, 


No., name and division. 

Barasat Govt, collage 
ROLL BAR. 

1 Sibapada Sarkar, Second. 

2 Snnatkumar Gangopadh.vay, Third. 

4 Pradipkiiniar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

5 Kumudranjan Mukhopadliyay, Second. 
7 lh>bkumar Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

10 Jitendnmath Dehiswas, Third. 

11 Sanatkiunar Mukhopadliyay, Second. 

10 Shj*»fk|iil A lam, Third. 

17 Md. Golain Hussain Kurdur. Second. 

1H Md. Safi TMla. Seeoml. 

20 Anialendu Barnl, Third. 

21 Kiidiiikumnr Chattopadhyay, First. 

22 Suhhusish Praiminik, Second. 

2d Rnbindrakuruar Aditva, First. 

20 Nirmalyakumar Mitra. Second. 

27 Nircndranath Ghosh, First. 

28 Mahadebchandra Ghosh, Second. 

29 Hi m an Basgupta, Second. 


ROLL BAR. F. 

3 Hen a Raychiiudhuri, Second. 

4 Rcba Dcbi. Second. 

5 Hamala Ghoshal, Second. 

0 Chitra Chakrabarti, Third. 

7 Rani ( 'hal topadhyay, Second. 

8 Rasa n (i Ray, Second. 

II Arati Nivo^i, Second. 

15 Amirndh.i Ra.vcliaudlmri, Second. 
1(» Gitarnni Tapadar, Tliinl. 

20 Ktishiia Das^ujita, Second. 

22 Manju Rayi'haudimri, Second. 

24 Mina Das^upta. Third. 

Da sin am Sadhukhan, Sciond. 
dd Sila Gaiitropadhyay, Third, 
dl Indira Basil, Third, 
do Bharat i Ray, Second. 
dS Kanika Gliosli, Third. 

•19 INfahi ti Mukhopadliyay, Second. 

40 Mira ( that topailhyay, Second. 

41 Ranu RaychamUmri, Second. 

4d Dolly (’hat topa<lliyay. Second. 


Barisha Vfvekananda College 

ROLL BARI. 

4 Sihnatb Basil, Third. 

6 Pancliu^opal Bar, Second. 

9 Kalikinkar Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

12 Someswar Bhaumik. Second. 

14 •laykiituar (diaudhuri, Second. 

Id Asinikuniar Datta, Second. 

17 Amiyahhushan Mandal, Second. 

18 daydchkinnar Mandal, Second. 

19 Sanjayk umar Kar, Second. 

20 Mahadebchandra Kundu, Second. 

2d Kanjanahha Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

24 Syamaprnsad Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

2-5 Niniai Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

28 Aniitabha Sengupta, Second, 
dl Asinikuniar Datta, Second. 

32 Synmaprasad Baychaudhuri, Third. 

,r k5 Lttkshmikanta Ghosh, Second. 

30 Amarnath Mandal, Second. 

37 Ainiyaranjan Patra, Second. 

38 Suhhransusekhar Mukhopailhyay, Third. 
•39 Prantosh Datta, Second. 

40 A si tk u mar Bhattaeharvya, Second. 

41 Sukharanjan Mukhopadhyay, First. 

44 Sunilkumar Ghosli, Third. 

46 Nepalchandra Datta, Third. 

48 Subhashchandra Basu, First. 

49 Kalidas Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

50 Niranian Chakrabarti, Second. 

5] Suhridkumar Das. Second. 

52 Narayanchandra Mitra, Second. 

53 Samarkumnr Mitra, Second. 

54 Asiinkumar Senraychaudhuri (Ca), First. 
56 Pahitrakumar Bhattaeharvya. Second. 

59 Sanatkumar Chattopadhyaj T , Third. 

60 Saibalkumar Dasgupta, First. 

64 Debendranath Sarkar, Second. 

65 Rajendranath Gayen, Third. 

66 Ratischandra Majumdar, Third. 

ROLL BARI. F. 

1 Sandhya Rhattacharyya, First. 

2 Anima Chakrabarti, Second. 

3 Rama Ray, Second. 

4 Nilima Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

5 Prana mi Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

14 Gita Ray, Third. 


70 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29 , 1962 


No., name and division. 

Barlsha Vlvekananda College 
ROLL BARI. F. 

16 Jliarna Dasmaluipatra, Third. 

17 Kajali Gangopadhx ay, Third. 

20 Dipika Chandra, Second. 

21 Anindita Basil, Third. 

22 Kalyani Bairagi, Second. 

23 Mira Dasgupta, First.. 

24 Mandira Gupta, Second. 

26 Sujata Bhaumik, Second. 

30 Tapati Sahakundn, Second. 

31 Sukla Sarkar, Third. 

40 Tapati Chanda, Third. 

41 Sudipta Bhadra, Third. 

42 Kanika Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

41 Bharati Saha, Second. 

46 Sandhva Sarkar, Third. 

. r >0 Dipti Das, Third. 

.17 Sumita De, Second. 

61 Bandana ( ’hakraharl i. Second. 

67 Gif a Sarkar, Second. 

71 Snhhra Saha, Second.* 

72 Dhira M uklmpadhs ay, Second. 

73 llama Dhali, Second. 

70 Bani Sen, Second. 

HO Namifa I)e, Second. 

82 Gif a Nath, Third. 

03 I a pi Dasgupfa Thud 
07 Santi 1M ukhopmihx ay , Third 
101 Arati Ghatak, Third. 

10.1 Namifa Sarkar, Tliitd. 

107 Sumita Bay, Thinl. 

Ill Mira Mi fra. Hind 

113 Baina M nkhopadh vav, Third 

111 Bina Kar, Third 

1M Snirifikana llaldai, Third. 

117 Burmina Datfa, Second. 

118 Sadhana Das, r FI i i i < I . 

120 Batm Giiosli.il, Third. 

121 Bcl.a Gulia, Thud. 

122 Dipti Ghosh, Third 

123 Sephali Ghosh, Thud. 

121 Bnbv Ghosh. ’Ihird. 

120 Ban’ll Bagli, Thinl. 

132 Chhahi Bhadra, Second 
137 Anjali Bhattaohar\ya. Third. 

130 Sihnni Dattacupt a , Second. 

110 Gita Gangopadhyay , Second. 

112 Sucli 1 1 ra Sarkar. Third. 

113 Manpiu Gangopadhx a\ , Third. 

Ml Maiifm-ri Gangopadln a v, Thiid, 

J 16 Uuh.v Dattn, Third 

3*10 Dipali Tapasxxi, Thud. 


Non-ooileglate Student, Barlsha Vlvekananda College 
ROLL BARI. F.N. 

66 Sobliana Das, Second, 


Barraokpur Rastraguru Surendranath College. 


ROLL BARRACK. 


4 

5 

6 
8 

11 

13 

15 

16 
19 
21 
26 

29 

30 
34 
39 
41 
46 
49 
60 
62 

63 

64 
68 
79 
33 


Dilipkumar Ghosh, First. 

Anantalal Mukhopndhvay, Third. 
Nitischandra Chakraharti, Third. 
Gopalchandra Do, Second. 

Amalkanti Bay, Third. 

Md. Sa hi nil Jlaque, Tliird. 
Syamalkumar Dlinr, First. 
Bibekbhushan Maitra, Second. 
Alokkumar Mukhopndhvay, Third. 
Bimnlendu Chakraharti, Second. 
Ihmaprasad Mukhoparlhyav, Tliird. 
Binayhhushan Bhattaeharyya, Third. 
Somnath Bandopadh\ay, TTiird. 
Asokkuiuar Bhattacharvya. Second. 
Kamalkrishna Debnath, Third. 
Dwijendranath Basil, Second. 
Kalyankumar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
Jyoti prasad Chandra, Second. 
Biplabkumar De, Tliird. 

Sunilohnndra Biswas, Third. 

Mnriilal Khan, Second. 

Bari ndrak um ar Basu, Third. 
Alokkumar Ray, Third. 

Debaprakas Chakraharti, Second. 
Perth use r ftthi Pal, Second. 


fPARt U 



No., name and division. 

Barraokpur Rastraguru Surendranath College 

ROLL BARRACK. 

90 Ratankumar Bay, Second. 

94 Anilkrishna Sen, Second. 

96 Dilipkumar Bnyohaudhuri, Third. 

97 Riithimlrannth Chattopadhyay, Third. 

99 Saurindranath Saha, Second. 

100 Saehmandan CTiaiidluiri, Second. 

103 Suiyyakumar Saha, Second. 

104 Mihirknmar As, Third. 

105 Syainaprasad M ukhopadhyay, Third. 

J(H> Aptkunuir Bhattaeharyya, Second. 

107 Asitkumar Bharadwaj, Second. 

• 09 Ahhaykumar Kuntlu, Second. 

112 Sk. Majed Ali, Third. 

113 Sisirkumar Dattn, Third. 

118 Md. Anowar Ali, Third. 

12 1 Sureshchandra Ghosh, Third. 

12-“) Suprakas Chattopadhyay, Third. 

128 Brasanlakumar Ruy, Third. 

130 Dehahrata M ukhopadhyay, Third. 

132 Barifosh Mukliopadh.vay, Third. 

137 Maiiaskunuir Mukho]mdhyay, Second. 

139 Shardanaml Sharma, Second. 

141 Sunilkuniar De, Third, 


1 

3 

4 


10 

19 

25 

31 

37 

38 
40 
43 
17 
50 

54 

55 

56 

57 

58 
61 
62 
63 
72 
74 

77 

78 

79 
82 
a3 
89 
97 

311 

113 

114 
116 
118 
122 
123 
328 
132 
135 

137 

1 38 

139 
1 11 
1 15 
147 
157 

159 

160 
161 
162 

163 

164 

167 

168 
369 

172 

173 
178 
181 
182 


ROLL BARRACK. F. 

Manju Bandyopadhyay, First. 
Bi|aya Chakraharti, Second. 

Dipali Bnmlj opadhyay , Second. 
Nilas] 1 1 a Biswas, First. 

Kalyani dial fopadliyay, Thinl. 
Annapurna ( Tiaf topadlix ay, first. 
Bushpa Das, Second. 

Bela Ramh opadhx aj , Second. 

Si pi a Das, Second. 

Arati Chakraharti, Third. 

Asalata Biswas, TTiird. 

Asima Adlukari, Third. 

.laxasn Bagchi, Second. 

Kalvam Chaki aharti, Second. 
Kalpatia Basil, Second. 

Banpisha Basil, Second. 

Mu a Bhat taeharyya, Third. 

Bina Niyogi, Third. 

Sila Nandi, Second. 

Batna Sinha, First. 

Ira Kumlusaha, Second. 

Gauri M ukhopadhyay, First. 

Si bani Ghosh, Tliird. 

Anima Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
Minakshi Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
Dipali Dntta, Second. 

Bandana Dattaray, Third. 

Sandhya Ghosh, Third. 

Bharati Sengupta, Second. 

Jayanti Sanyal, Second. 

Kshana Goswami, Second. 

Gita Sarkar, Third. 

Chaitali Maitra, Third. 

Parul Kusari, Third. 

Kalyani Mukhopadhyay, Second. 
Anju Sengupta, Second. 

Arati Bay, Second. 

Maya Sengupta, Second. 

Indumati Dehi, Second. 

Smriti Sinha, Third. 

Arati Sen, Third. 

Sandhxa Mukhopadhyay, Second. 
Ma lafi Gangopadhyay, Second. 
Sahita M ukhopadhyay, Third. 

Mina Miindal, Third. 

Chhahi Barnianray, Second. 

Sndesh Narnia, Second. 

Kali Dasgupta, Third. 

Gita Ghosh, Third. 

Bnfikana Bay, Third. 

Anita Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
Bharati Sengupta, Third. 

Anjali Raychaudhuri, Tliird. 
Suhrata Haidar, Third. 

Sephali Ghosh, Third. 

Smriti Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
Chbabirani Sur, Second. 

Pampa Goswami, Second. 

Gita Raychaudhuri, Second. 

Mava Bandyopadhyay, Second. 
Kalpana Das, Third. 

Pushpa Datta, Second. 

Chanarima Chattopadhyay, Second. 
Purabi Bhattaeharyya, Second. 
Subhra Nandi, Thirds 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29 , 1962 


71 


P.ll! 


T IB] 


No., name and division. 

Basirhat College 
ROLL BA8IR. 


Chittaranjan Jotdar, Second. 



1 
IS 
i>o 
:u 
:is 
4<i 
:,i 
.V2 
;,9 
<>l 
(5 
1*9 
71 
TO 
80 
ill 

107 

ins 

no 

in 

n-2 

no 

120 

in 

I 12 
110 
1 10 
1 17 
1 h 
i in 
1 .1 
101 
1 V) 
i')0 
IM 
I0‘» 
100 

170 

171 
171 
17‘) 
M 
ls“. 
N7 

mi 

101 

107 

201 

202 

20.1 

207 

210 

212 

217 

232 

209 
240 

210 
2.58 
200 
200 
201 
200 , 
201 
20S 

O-.) 

271 
2S‘) 
2S 1 

‘Jvw 


Second. 


20,u 
21". 1 

‘111., 

:;iw 

nil 

•‘Hi 

310 

■121 

320 

•127 

.329 

•n-, 

•130 

■Mo 


^ irnvnnchandrn Mandal, Third. 

Mil kumar Sarkar, Third. 

M ,1 Kazlur Hnhaman Shikary, Third. 
Rabindranath Mandal, Third, 
(kikulannnda Misra, Third. 

Nuriil Oani, Second, 
ypi. Kahidullah, Third. 

Kamalkuniar Saha, Third. 

Oln Did Hannan, Third. 

As’uiosh Biswas, Third, 
ilainondranai h Das, Second. 

A. K. M . Kadam Rasul, Third. 
Parainoswar Mandal, Third. 

Kahmdi annth Das, Third. 

Aid Abdul Bari, Third, 
liai ma th Ghosh, Third. 

Ft pal kumar Bandyopndhvuy, Second. 

\ so U kumar Basil, Second. 

,Md A l>dar Bahainan, Second. 

Md A hill Quascin, Second. 

I ndi a lit Kwrninknr, Sceimd. 

Iliiiv anarayan Biswas (M), First. 
Diiiabandhu Das, Third. 

Itsibnuli anath Dalai, Third. 
Aliiiidrakuinar Saha. Second. 
liiliHihihnri Nandi, First. 
lUialiaiii prasad Bamlvopndhyav , 
llisvwinatli (Tiakrabarti, Second. 
Ihdhuhluishaii Mandal, Third. 

Supinrinml Basil, Second. 

Pi asani akninar B.mdyopadhyav, Third. 
Gob.irdlianohandra Mandal, Second. 

Jsu i \ \ a ka lit a Ghosh, Second. 

Kama res Mitra, Second. 

Md Scrawl ill Islam, Second. 

Md Alain! GoMor, Second. 

Tusliai kumar Basil, Second. 

Tmapada. Sarkar, Second. 

Susilkinnar Das, First. 

Swadesranjan Biswas, Third. 

A lit kumar Sarkar, Second. 

Klcaln Bi/kslu> Ahmed, First. 
.Maliadeluhandra Sardar, Second. 
Madliahcha ndra Biswas, Second. 
liaitK'schandra Sarkar ((a), First. 
Tiwaknath Das, Second. 

Narendrannth Mandal, Third. 

Dipt ikuniar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

'I'an may Biswas, Second. 

Amarkrishna Pal, Third. 

Tarapada. Mandal, Third. 

Santoshkumor De. Third. 

Md Nosar Ali, Third. 

Md Abdur Rauf, Third. 
Arcldhondukumar Ghosh, Third. 
Madhusndan Sen, Third. 

Nidhankumar Mandal, Second. 

N’nnni Hfnychaudliuri, Second. 
Bamendramohan Alallik, Third. 

I*ai itoshkumar Bachhar, Third. 
Gaiieschandra Mandal, Second. 

Ni ipemlrnnath Bhattnc haryya, First. 
Dmvakumar Rayehaudhuri, Second. 
Ihylmnpnda. Basil, First. 

Narendranath Gan^opadh vay, Second. 
Md Abdul Ba ri, Second. 

Md. Srrajnl Islam, Third. 

^ukuniar Das, Third. 

Md Khaled, Third. 

S.i mira*n Mandal, Third. 
Miruiinclnmrlia Hnri, Third, 
hcyddal De. Second. 

• i|i|yhknmar Bamlyopadhvay, Secrnid. 
M'l Fakir Ahmed, Third. * 

J 1 Ka sell a ndra Chnkraharti, Second. 
*Y»»ia ut kumar Acharyva, Third, 
•lohanimnd Ahul Kashem. Second. 

dmiosrliandra Biswas, Third, 
v nikrishiia Bhattaoharwa, Third. 
vT^^handrft Das, Second. 
AniMohandra Adhikari, Third. 
Wmndankumar Mitra, Third. 
Jmimchandra Mandal . Third, 
^antakumar Das, Third. 


^marondranath Das, Third. 
M.i^w^har Bandy opadhyay, Second, 
■mi p,i * Wa ?d Ali, Third. 

M2 ;, lan \oshkumar Ghosh, Third. 

**2 AflinJ ,mzan , Ali Baidya. Third. 

359 u rai l ath Sardar, Third. 

884 Te ^H da M l idha . Third. 

Aejendrauath Ghosh, Seoond. 


No., name and division. 

Basiiliat College. 
ROLL BA8IR. 

36G Rabiswar Bandyopadliyay, First. 

308 Sajalkanti De. First, 

309 Pijushkanti Biswas, Third. 

373 Snnilkuiniir Biswas, Second. 

375 Santoshkiumir MandaJ. Third. 

37(> Syjwnnlendii Datla, Third. 

377 Susilendu Datta, Third. 

380 Hanujit-kuimir Ghosh. Third. 

.‘182 .litomlranath Mandal, Third. 

387 .lugannath Karnmkar. Third. 

388 Dtilulcliaiulni Ghosh. Third. 

390 Bhiipa*tirurijan Das, Third. 

391 Kuinmirainaii Soin, Third. 

392 Bis lumped a Ghosh, Third. 

393 Tapan Dasgnpta. Second.^ 

397 Bankimcliaiulra Sarkar, Third. 

398 Ganeschandra .Mandal, Third. 

4 ( K) Bhupu>tichaiidra Baj, Third. 

403 (iurnpada Bachhar, Third. 

409 Mam/t oshkumar Haidar, Third. 

•110 Niranjan Gayen, Thud. 


ROLL BASIR. P. 

1 Sahita Tapaswi, Third. 

2 Nanuta Unmlli>ay, Third. 

7 Maitieyi Majuindui, Third. 

8 Maliainaya Bandvopadhyay , Third. 

18 Kainala Sen, Third. 

19 R-alnma Khatoon, Third. 

21 Mama*ta Ghosh, Third. 

23 Jayasri lla\ chuuTHiuri, Third. 

25 Manju Rayoliaudhm 1 . Second. 

28 Aliha ( ’hail opadhyay. Second. 

29 Aniita Biswas, Second. 

32 Saiulhya Bliattaolnwyya, Third. 

33 \njj;iir l)o, Third. 

:W» Hama Bhat tachurx >a, II (Kct'ii. No. 13720 of 1958- 
59), Third. 

37 Kamka Sen, Second. 


Non-Colieglate Students, Basirhat College. 
ROLL BASIR. N. 

11 Birendranath Mridha, Third. 

14 l*a*!ikaikuinar Das, Third. 

15 Aid. Abdur Rahim, Third. 

17 lladhakanta Mandal, Second. 

19 Pareschandra Baidya, Second. 

21 Diiiabandhu Gayen, Third, 


Belur Ramkrishna Mission Vldyamandlr. 
ROLL BELUR. 

1 Debabrata GuhamyoKi, First. 

2 Dipakkumar T.T k i 1 , First. 

3 Mukulkumar Mukhr/pudliyay, Second. 

4 Amalendu Dattatfupta, First. 

5 Ibjax kumar Ghosh, Second. 

(j Kama dal Gun ^opadhyay, Second. 

7 Nirinalkuniai Mukhopadlivay, First. 

8 Gautainkuinar Biswas, Kirst. 

9 Suhirkuniar Hay, First. 

10 Syamnl Chatl opadhyay (M), First. 

11 *( ’handi asek ha*r Das ((‘a), Kirst. 

12 T'lisharkan 1 1 Mitra. First.. 

13 # Su him slid »a ndra Hav (M(’a), First. 

11 * \ i uriabha Smha ( M< a), Kirst. 

15 Asutosh (Jan} 2 .opadh> ay, Kirst. 

16 Kttlyankumar Basil, Second. 

17 Swarnpkuinar Haifa, Second. 

18 Sandipkiimar Hajra, Kirst. 

19 Bi jay kumar Basil, Second. 

20 .lagatbandliu Medda, Kirst. 

21 Asitkumar Bisi, First. 

22 SudhansusokhsH* Biswas, First. 

23 Prantoshkumar Sen, First. 

24 Bradipkumar Ghosh, First. 

25 *Rajatkumar Ghakraharti, First. 

26 Siddheswar Ghakraharti, Third. 

27 Asokkumar Chattopadhyay, Second. 

28 Debranjan Khanra, Second. 

29 Asishkumar Rayckaudhnri, Second. 

30 Sujayranjan Parui, Second. 

31 Taraknath Chaudhuri, First. 

32 Mrityunjay De. Seccmd. 

3^3 *Sailendranath Bhattacharyya (SCe), Firet. 
34 Gopikaranjan Bhattacharyya, First. 


72 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


LPart ib 


No. f name and division, 

Berhampore Girls' College. 

ROLL BER. F. 

11 Anima Biswas, Second. 

12 Anjali Chandra, Second. 

13 Archana Dasgupta, Second. 

15 Annradha Haidar, Second. 

Hi Aparna Dasgupta, Second. 

17 Bela Maitra, Third. 

IS Debrani Ghosh, Third. 

19 (’hahi Mitra*, Third. 

20 Anjali ( 'hakrahnrti, Third, 

21 Pushpnmala Sinlia, Third. 

20 Key a Ballin’ Second. 

27 Somalia Brunmachari, Second. 

28 Mira Saha, First. 

29 Juthika Maitra, Second. 

.‘10 Santisndha liav, Second. 

01 It'aina Oatta, Third. 

.‘12 Manasi l)atta, Second. 

.‘1,1 Nandi ta Gupta*, Third. 

:14 Santwann Chakraharti, Second. 

.‘15 Jjina Datta,, Second. 

30 Dipti Hagchi, Second. 

07 Mina Bhattacharyya, Third. 

.‘18 Suigdh;* Basil, Second. 

.‘19 Dipali Basil, Second. 

40 Archana Bandyi/padhyay, Second. 

41 Sununda Sengupta, First. 

42 Nandi ta Bhattacharyya, First. 

4.‘1 Sarniishtlun Gupta, Second. 

44 Maya Ghosh, Second. 

45 Clilinbi Ghosh, First. 

40 .lolly Raychuudhun, First. 

47 Badliaram Basgnpta, Second. 

48 AlnkiMianda Hay, Second. 

49 Tlalirani Biswas, First. 

50 Snick ha Majumdar, Second. 

51 Minati (liandra, Second. 

52 Chhaya ( 'liattopadliyay, First. 

55 Prakrit i Hay, First. 

51 llsha*nini Adliikari, First. 

55 Alpana Sarkai , First. 

50 Sephali Dehi, Second. 

58 Anita Majumdar, First. 

59 Prati inn Hay, Second. 

00 Pentium Iliswas, J[ (Regn. No. 10580 of 1959-00), 

Second. 

01 Gavatri Kniigupta., Second. 

02 .layanti ( 'hakrahnrii. Second. 

03 flimnni Mnjmndar, Second. 

01 A trey i Haychaudhuri, First. 

00 Nilnna Adliikari, First. 

07 Kcka Bnndvopadhvny, Second. 

08 Madhuri llarat. Third. 

71 .11* u im* Clinkrabarti, Second. 

72 Niyatirani Gulia, Third. 

71 .1 Imrna Mukliopadliyay, Third. 

75 Gila Datta., Third. 

70 Gauri Sen, Thud. 


Berhampore Krlshnatti College. 
ROLL BER. 

2 Ko^abch»ndra Mandal, Second. 

3 Bimankrishna Laliiri, Third. 

4 Ratiknnta De, Second. 

5 Prabirkumar Bbattacharyya, Second. 

8 Pratipkumar Son, 'Third. 

13 Amitabha Majumdar, First. 

14 Nakulchandra Datta, Second. 

18 Swadosranjan (‘hattopadliyay, Second. 

20 Biswanath Das, Second. 

21 RahindriMiath Chakraharti, Third. 

23 Muralidhar Haidar, Third. 

29 Santikumar Biswas, Third. 

32 Md. Ratatullah, First. 

39 Md. Bavotulla, Third. 

4 1 Klinja Ahmed, Third. 

49 I’rnboflhkumnr Mukhopndhyay, Second. 
51 Sanatkmnar Ray, Third. 

53 Sanknrprnsad Saha, Third. 

67 Muhammad Haristullah, Third. 

09 Muhanuna*d Niazuddm, Third. 

71 Md. Ashraf Hossain, Third. 

76 Khaled Rub, Third. 

81 Dilipkumar Sarkur, Third. 

86 Sarc/jkumar Pal, Third. 

87 Brajendrakumar Pramanik, Second. 

88 Baidyanath Rarv, Second. 

91 Atulkumar Maulik, Second. 

97 Dehabrata Ghoshmaulik, Second. 

101 Mrityunjay Haidar, Third. 

104 Kamalkumar Dasgupta, Second. 

105 BirendranaAh Datta, Second. 

115 Prasantakumar Bandy opadhy ay, Second. 


No., name and division. 

Berhampore Krlehnath College, 
ROLL BER, 

119 Nirmalchandra Chakraharti, Second. 

120 Maitreya Ghatak, First. 

12J Chitrw Gupta, Second. 

123 Ha tin till u shaii Majumdar, Second. 

121 Jibendranarayan Mitra, Second. 

125 Tapaskumar Pramanik, Tliird. 

127 Kajatkumar Ray, Second. 

128 Chandratialh Ray, First. 

129 Ratanlal Saha, Second. 

1 31 Aid. Ahsanullah, Second. 

132 Mohammad Ismail, Second. 

133 Seikli Kamaluddin, Third. 

131 Rea/.uddm Ahmad, Second. 

135 Saurcudrunatli Bandy i/padhyay, Third. 
1 10 Ajaykumar Dusgupta, Third. 


Bethune College. 

ROLL CAL. F. 

1313 IJma Das, Second. 

1314 Dipali Mitra, Second. 

1315 Anjali Do, First. 

1310 Jvaipana Basil, Second. 

1317 Anita l)a*tta. First. 

1318 ,1 liaina Maiuindar. Second. 

1:09 Asrulckha Nag. Second. 

1321 Gita Bandyopadhyav , Third. 

1322 Krishna Mallik, Second. 

1323 ('liandana M ukliopadh\ay, Second, 

J321 Audi Mukliopadliyay, Second. 

1325 Anima Das, Second. 

1320 Sati Kar, Second. 

1327 Rama < 'liattopadliyay, Third. 

1328 Kulpnna Ghosh, Third. 

1329 Gopa Majumdar, Third. 

1331 Pratinia Gatigopadli.va> , Second. 

1331 Bandana Mukhi/padlij ay, First. 

1335 Aloknmla Das, First. 

1330 A rati Kar, Second. 

1337 Suhlia Datta, First. 

1339 Pranati Raychaiidliuri, First. 

1310 Mamatadehi dial topadliya.v, First. 

1312 Manju Mukliopadliyay, First. 

1313 S.irhani M 1 1 ra , Fi rst . 

1314 .layasn Bhattacharvya, First. 

1315 dihnmla. Maulik, First. 

1310 Dipali Sil, First. 

1317 Manjusri Bhattacharyya, Second. 

1318 Bandana Sen, First. 

1319 Bulbul Ghosh, First. 

].‘150 Rita Biigolu, Second. 

1351 .layunti Bhattacharyya, Second. 

1352 Kajal Datta, Second. 

1353 Krishna Sarkar, First. 

1351 Kanan Basak, Second. 

1355 Sm l i Dhar, First. 

1.350 Aparna Gangopadhyay, Second. 

1357 Swapna Chandra, Second. 

1358 Binata Dudhoria, First. 

1359 Minati rani Nandi, Second. 

1300 Iti Sengupta, First. 

1301 Santimayi Datta, Second. 

1 .‘102 Sannta Kengupta, Second. 

1363 Manju lika Dusgupta, First. 

1304 Gauri, Bhadra, First. 

1:160 Suralihi f ‘liattopadliyay, First. 

1367 Krishna Bhattacharyya, First. 

1368 Hakshmismui Ma*llik. Second. 

-1369 Archana. Basil, Third. 

1371 Manjusri Biswas, Third. 

1372 Anita Sinha, First. 

1373 Gita Pandit (Mrs. Mukliopadliyay), First. 

1374 I'ratima (’liattopadliyay, First. 

1375 Anjali Clia ttopadhyay, First. 

1370 Srilekha Datta, First. 

1377 Sabita Majumdar, Second. 

1378 Chimhi Ghosh, Second. 

1379 Matnata Sarkar, Second. 

1380 Amita. Chaudhuri, Second. 

1381 Lipi Mukhopadhyafy, Second. 

1382 Pratima Sasmal, Third. 

1383 Krishna Thaknr, First. 

1384 Polly R;ay, First. 

1385 Hasi Ghosh, Second. 

1380 Bharati Sengupta, Second. 

1387 Annradha Ray, Third. 

1.388 Gitanjali Gangopadhyay, Second. 

1389 Rekha Sanyal. Second. 

1390 Asoka Sen. Third. 

1391 .Tharna Radhukhan, Second. 

1392 Angurbala Das. Third. 

1393 Archana Chaudhuri, Second. 

1394 Namita» Mukhopadhyay, Third, 

1395 Anita Chaudhuri, Second. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. MARCH 29, 1962 


73 


HU 



No., name and division. 

Bethune Collage. 
ROLL CAL. F. 


\i'!u S r#l!' |S ?Koki'>. No- 18:159 Of 1958-59), Third. 

B«>" 'ji! 1 '| ,IU il S aicgn. No. 1899G of 1958-59), Second. 
* 1 |hs„‘ I'lusgupta, Second. 

. Cliukrabiirti, Second, 
ri! n ». Jliini 
v i i Mitni. Second. 

.V" rimltopadhvay, Second. 

1 l.ii-i Hav, Second, 
nnnli (luiltopadhyay, Third. 

. I . (Jliosli, 'Hurd. 

Uand.vopudhyay , Second. 

, Del). Second. 

Mukhopadhyay, hirst 
Kiuidvopndhvay, Second. 

V,";, l hatu.padl.yay (Hegn. No. 10.8.89 of 1959-00), 

second. 

Dm. Hav, Second. 

I {.union* (Jhoshal, Third. 
ll!liU;1 i, llasmlhar, 1< irst. 

\„ lM ia Mukhopadhyay, bust. 

Numlita Duttu, First, 
llan, Pat la. Second. 

\uti (Josvviwm, iiiira. 

( i,l,;uul.i Hush, Second, 
i; miii Ha\, Second. 

N.iliiiin in Hay, First. 

Mn.i ( hat topac'hyay (Kegn. No. 
hi -i 


18892 ol 1958-59), 


ll.mi.i Mukhopndhyny, First. 

V ii mi n Mil ra, Second. 

Hi, K ;> \ , First. 
s.nulli.Mi Das, Second. 

\ niipnuia (liakrnharti, Second. 
M.iliil i Milrn. Second. 

Il.hi I!:i\ , Second. 

\;uma Ikisu, Third. 

lih.iTsit i Guhathakurtn, Second. 

j ml i .in i Haiulvopadhyay, Second. 

M. mdusi Sengupta, Second, 
s.ilnlii < 'hnl topaulhyny , Second. 

Hi. nd.i Mini tacharyya, Third. 
Kiulh.iriini Pattachniidiniri, First, 
knslm.i Miimlyopadhya-y, Second 
k. link, i Das. Second. 

Mil. In IS.mdvnpadhyay, First, 
lii'lu D.itl.i, Second, 
s.niilliv.i Kumlu, Second. 

Illuint i ISlianinik, Third. 

N. wiiii. i I *;i 1 Second. 

> 'il. i I’nnilit . Second. 

'*ini it i s«Mi‘»ii|itn, Second. 

Vumtn Himdvojmdhyav, First. 

Dot la. First. 
kd\c|\ liasu. First, 
hum i (iolia. First. 

''o in i u Dliar, Second. 

I i .1 1 1 ( 'hn-ttopadhyay , First, 
hi I ml i Das Second 
• k i \ 1 1 s 1 1 Pasguptn, Second. 

Di.it i in ;i ltn\ , Second 
M-iniai., Kn\ , Third. ' 

1 > n pi a , Third. 

•ihui ii:i. Hiird. 

d ha rn ;i M ukhopadhyav, Third. 
''■ihui First. ‘ 

'•iim.-i Miira, First. 

S|, l"iMt Sen, Second. 

^akkhn Guha, Second. 


Bishnupur Ramananda College. 
ROLL BI8HNU. 

j;!''" 1 "!' MiMtUal. So. -ond. 

"mkiint,, Kny, Second. 

Hnl Hakshit, Third. 

I’nthak, Third. 

IWoT ,Kar Ohntak, Third. 

.hiiini.i'V""’" ^atra, Third. 

\nilli, ,:ll ' : 'th Adak, Second. 

II, ‘ 1,1,1 Mandal, Third. 
fa! th 'Jandal, Second. 

«*C . , r:r th 1 Kor « First - 

i.ak-h ; ' Ull ' ril Sankhabanik. Second, 
''■lurk. l,,!’" 1 ! l , s ' n hamahai>atra, Second. 
8,,i,|||,. '" I1,r .' '"tra, Second. 

Snwoh" Second. 

Sl 'u limit* 1 ^ ^ lft ridhuri. Second. 

J^hladeh'an i an 5? isrft » 

Sail ^fl r k, ra Mandal, Second. 

Kuuiur Mandal, Third. 


No., na»mo and division. 

Bishnupur Ramananda College. 

ROLL BISHNU. 

27 Ajitknmar Chakraharti, Third. 

28 Kfanptkumar liagchi, Second. 

29 Krishnapada Mandal, Third. 

82 Koliuukuniar Ghattopadhyay, Second. 

88 Aptkuinai Das, I, Third. 

81 ( iiandicharaii ( 'hukrubarti, Third. 

88 ((opnlchandra Pal, Third. 

80 Kshudirain De, Sect/nd. 

87 Mntyunja\ Panda, Third. 

88 Anandtwnohan Nag, Third. 

II liipiychnttdru Shannigrahi, Third. 

4 1 Satyanaiayan Kar, Third. 

81 DoIgoRinda Dat ta. Third. 

An Madhusudan De. Third. 

1»1 dagivlmiidhu Pal, Third. 

<>1 Madanmohan Hay, Second. 

<).“> Kameswar Mahanti, Third. 

70 Hasantakuniar Mandal, Third. 

78 Dwarakanath Saron, Third. 

79 Sasaitkusekhar Do, Second. 

88 Hholanath Ghosh, Second. 

8/ Smlhamax Adhikuri, 'I'hird. 

88 ('hittaranjan Hakshit, Third. 

91 Kauai la-1 Hakshit, Second. 

98 Hmaychandra Saikar, Second. 

99 Gmrnin Kiindu, First. 

100 Kanailal Mandal, Second. 

107 Kintibhushan Masanta, Third. 

108 Mada<nchnndra Pal, Second. 

109 lhswaiiath Manvan, Second. 

110 Sankarprasad ('liaudluiri, Second. 

111 Shorasisankar Ghntak, Second. 

112 Santirain Pramamk, Second. 

I 18 Ihrendranat h Goswami, 'I'hird. 

Ill Mahadch Sinlia, First. 

115 Kanailal Kumlu. First. 

I 10 lhinsig(/pal Hay, First. 

72H Niniaicharan Kumlu, First. 

121 N lklnli jHipin Smhahahu, 'I'hird. 

1215 Alokkiiinar Haim, Third. 

129 Kimadhar l)e. Third. 

180 Sankarprasad ( 'hatidhuri, 'Tliml. 

I 81 ( 'handicharan Mahanti, Second. 

I. 84 A in i f \ a ran pin Msvndal, 'Third. 

185 Siharam Smhaniaha|mtra, Second. 

180 Gangadlinr Satpati, Third. 

188 Siidiiirchandra Maji, Second. 

189 Hmnjilkutnar Maji, 'Third. 

II. 8 Hamsalya Do, Third. 

1 17 Hnjihlochati Misrn. Second. 

118 Snsheneliandra Kiindu, Third. 

1A0 SuUinnar Pratiliar, 'Third. 

I A I ( hit tarnujnn Santra, Second. 

158 \sokkmnar Kay, Second. 

1 54 (jlopsulniohan Mandal, 'Third. 

Ifil Cliil taranjan Shannigrahi, S<*con«l. 

I (Hi Apurhakrislina Hay, Second. 

109 Ajit.kiiniai Pam, Second. 

170 Niradharan Mandal, Third. 

171 llmigopal Pal, Third. 

172 K rislmagopa*! liasu, 'Third. 

178 lit, pi vchnndrn Panda, Second. 

171 Aplkumar Kole, Second. 

1 7 0 Alulkrislma Panda, Third. 

188 ( h/|)alcliandra Deh. Third. 

18A Adilyakumar Kaiti, 'I'hird. 

IH(» Sndhansnsekhar Sakha, Second. 

188 Sukuniar Hnndyopadhyay, First,. 

190 Sainirknmar llhattachary.va, First. 

191 Kintibhushan Hay, Second. 

192 Narahari Misra, Second. 

198 lihaskarcliandra Ghoshal, Tltird. 

197 Annndarnolian Mandal, Third. 

199 Dluraichandra Mandal, Third. 

208 Snpada Patra, b'irst. 

207 Nilyananda Mandal, Second. 

210 Knshnachandrn De, Second. 

218 Tlalaram lihattacharyya, Second. 

21 I ( luntniuaiii Patra, Second. 

2l(i Sundkimiar Dhattopadhyny, Third. 

217 Mahnnumid F/.ad Alandal. S<»cond. 

218 Phanihlnishan Kay, Second. 

220 Sadhucharan Datta, Third. 

228 Satyakinkar De, Third. 

224 Muhammad Sadaqne Hossain Mridhn, Second. 
280 Nilkantha Panda, Third. 

282 Sankarlal Daruka, Second. 

284 Ilharasaram Hhattacharvya, Second. 

2.T5 Nirmalknmar Mnkhoparihyay, Third. 

236 llibhabasu Karmakar, Third. 

287 Tarapada Kar, Second. 

244 Ha, jib Sinhamabapatra, Seccmd. 

245 Sumlkanti Ghosh, Third. 

247 Uobindaprasad Ghosh, I'hird. 

248 Swadhinkumar Sanyal, Third. 

249 Himansukumar Mahanta, Firnt. 



74 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


I Par 


No., name and division. 

Btshnupur ftamananda College. 
ROLL BI8HNU. F. 

1 lima Debnath, Third. 

2 Kabitri Ray, Second. 

1 Smgdha Sengupta, Third. 

5 Anusn Mandal, Third. 

0 J’ratiina Kar, Second. 

7 Rijaylakshmi Datta, Second. 

10 Arunn Sarkar, Second. 

12 Rimka Sural. Third. 


Non-uollegiate Student, Blstwiupur Ramananda College. 
ROLL BISHNU. N. 

12 Riahmamay Chattopadhyay, Third. 


Bogoola Srlkrlshna College. 
ROLL BOG. 

1 Ranchamui Biswas, Second. 

2 JVI nnalkanti Datta Second. 

3 Siidhirkniuar Ghosh, Second. 

4 Pranknshna Mandal, Third. 

5 Sachindranath Ray, II, Third. 

0 Amiyaknmar Gangopndliyay , Soeond. 

7 Sunitikuinar Sarkar, Second. 

11 Ramprasad Ray, Third. 

12 N mnalchandra Ray, Tliird. 

1 5 Marasi.itkmnar Pal, Third. 

10 Narcndranath Mandal. Third. 

28 >■ itynnnnda Biswas, Third 

33 Pntitpaban Riswas, Second. 

30 Runmelmndra Biswas, Second. 

38 Annilyakumar Biswas, Second. 

39 Dulalcliandi a Pal, Third. 

10 Dipak Sanval, Third. 

42 Dehcschandra Sarkar, Third. 

43 Gadadhnr Sadlmkhan, Second. 

17 Suhikos Ray, 'Phird. 

10 Sat.wirnnjan Ray, Second. 

00 liakshniankinuar Sarkar, Tliird. 

07 SuMlkumnr Ra\ , 'Phird. 

OS Ailikmnar Pramanik, First. 

00 l\ it\ ananda Pal, Second. 

70 ( ’lnl taranian Sarkar, First. 

71 llnshikes Mahaldar, Second. 

72 Bliubatiehandra Mallik, Sc»cond. 

71 SiisilUumar Das, First. 

77> l*i aiiahkumai Chakrnharti, Third. 

77 .1 a 1 indranath Bhakta. Second. 

78 A sitha i an Thakur, Second. 

81 Lankeswai Sarkar, Second. 

80 Mulknslma Saha, Third. 

80 ,1 ihanknslina Poddar Second. 

00 Gnpnlk nslina Mnddlui, Second. 

OS I lemaei akumai Marik, Second. 

00 .1 aeada na uda Maiuiiidai , Tliird. 

I0O Suhliaslicliandra llaohidar. Second. 
102 Siirendranal h Das, 'Phird. 

100 Aliindrakmnnr ( ’liandhiiri, Second. 
100 Mahadeb Bala, Phird. 

100 A mrilakumar Biswas, 'Phird. 

110 '’Dihpkiimar Biswas, 'Phird. 

112 ( lam align Bhattacharvyn, Second. 

111 Ajilkmnar Basil, 'Phird. 

121 Dhaiiaiijay Acliarv.va, Third. 


ROLL BOG. F. 

2 Pritikana (ioswami. Second . 


Bolpur College. 
ROLL BOL. 

1 Syaniasadliari But, Third. 

2 Alakananda Randyopadhyay, Second. 
4 Anuyakuiiiar Datta, Second. 

f» Rujkumar Bandyopadhyay , Third. 

7 ( ’hittaraiijan Bhandari, Second. 

12 Nisithkumar Sengupta, Second. 

13 Narayancliandra Mandal, Third. 

1 1 Salt am kuniar Saha, Second. 

10 Pruabrata Bhattaeharyya, Second. 

22 Umacharan Mukhiypadhyay, First. 

23 Bimalkumar Randyopadhyay, First. 
25 Gopmath Gupta, Second. 

29 Samar Nayek, Third. 

31 Dehkumar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

34 Sk. Abdus Sam ad. Second. 

41 Kalipada Sain, Third. 


No., name and division. 

Betpur College. 

ROLL BOL. 

45 Subrata Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

46 Manoranjan Ghosh, Third. 

48 Harihar Sinha, Third. 

50 Kasinath Pal. Second. 

57 Srishtidhar Bhandari, Third. 

03 Sam many Mallik, Second. 

00 .lardisli Mandal, 'Phird. 

07 Bhakta pada Sinharay, Second. 

08 Mir Nalmat Hussain, Third. 

73 Diuatisith Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

70 Amitahha Dasgupta, Third. 

81 Phatikchaiidra Ghosh, Third. 

83 Susilk uinar Debnath, Tliird. 

ROLL BOL. F. 

1 Kalpana Sengupta, Third. 

2 Anjali Das, Second. 

3 Archana Majumdar, Second. 

5 Sandhya Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

9 Anjali Ray, Second. 

11 Anjali Chakrabart i. Second. 

13 Manju Pal, 'Phird. 

Bon-Hooghly Brahmananda Keshab Chandra Cone) 
ROLL CAL. 

2821 Subrata Talukdar, Third. 

2820 Sudhirkumur Saha, 'Phird. 

2828 Prenitoshranjan Das, 'Phird. 

2830 .1 avail takumar Gangopadhyay , Third 

283.3 Tupusktimar Ghosh, Second. 

2834 Dehut.osh Gupta, Third. 

283*) Prnkas Mukhojmdhyay. Second. 

2837 Suklieiidu Bliaunuk, Third. 

2838 Amalkumar Bhaumik, Third. 

2839 Sat.ischandra Biswas, Second. 

2810 Gaurgnpnl Clinkrahnrti, 'Phird. 

2812 Nitaipada Chattopadhyay , 'Phird. 

2813 Snnkaritosh ( ha ttopadhvay. Third. 

2811 Milnrkuinar Bandy</padhy av , Third 
2845 Asoknath Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

28 17 Biswanalli Saha, First. 

2818 Pradvoi kumar Bhatlacharyya, Second. 

2819 Sainhhunatli Bandyopadhyny, Second. 

2850 Sa«mirkumar Bandyopadhyny, First. 

2853 Prana hk lunar Maitra, Third. 

2855 Rrnsnntakumur Sengupta, Third. 

2858 Sudharanpin I lor. Second. 

2859 Dipakkumar Gupta, 'Phird. 

2801 Pradipkumar ('liakraharti, 'Phird. 

2802 Phamlal ('lunula, 'Phird. 

2803 iMaiushkumar Datta, Second. 

2801 A nmcliandrn Deb, Third. 

2805 Pralnrkuniar Mallik, 'Phird. 

2807 Ajitkumar (■liakraharti, Second. 

2809 Sihaprasml ('liakraharti, 'Phird. 

2870 Sv\ elan susek liar Maliata, Third. 

2871 Kauailal Karniakar, Second. 

2871 Madhahnarayan Das, Second. 

2877 Syainalkumar Ray, First. 

ROLL CAL. F. 

2530 Alaka Bamlvopadhya v, 'Phird. 

2531 Mira Das, Third. 

2539 Ira Kargupta, Third. 

2513 Kamka Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

2515 Sukla (Ioswami, Second. 

2518 Nandita J)as, Third. 

2549 Pratibha De, Third. 

2553 Krishna Ghosh, Third. 

2557 Manjusri ( 'hakrabarti, First. 

2501 Gituruni Bhattaeharyya, Third. 

2505 Dipali Biswas, Third. 

2500 Debika Chakrabarti 'Phird. 

2572 Mamata Bliaunuk, Third. 

2579 I la Ray, 'Phird. 

2580 Kamala Itovy, Second. 

2581 Chliaya Chattopadhyay, Second. 

2582 Gauri Debi, Third. 

2583 Maya Ray, Second. 

2581 Sabitri Chaudhuri, Third. 

2585 Kalya n i Bhat.ta, Third. 

258c Putul Ohattopadhya.v, First. 

2589 A rati Chattopadhyay, Third. 

2591 Siprakana Ghosh, Second. 

2592 Kalpana Guha, Second. 

2593 Santi Mukhopadhyay, Second 

2594 'Pnpti Bardhan, vSecond. 

2595 Khelna De, Third. 

2598 Malhka Ray, Third. 

2599 Ha Saha, tfhird. 

2601 Aratirani Sikdar, Third. 

2(502 Krishna Raha, Second. 

2605 Asa Sengupta, Second. 


Part IB] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


75 


No., name and division. 

Bon-Hooghly Bratomavumda Keshab Chandra Collage. 
ROLL CAL. F. 


No., name and division. 

Burdwan Raj College. 
ROLL BUR. 


Sohhana Pal, Second. 

Krishna Goswann, Second. 

Maiijusri Chakrabarti, Third. 
r, t) l I Sipra Sengupta*, Second. 

:, () U Anima Chakraharti, First. 

,“ ( jl j Dipali Chakrabarti, First. 

Mira Roy, Third. 

Scphalika Pebi, Second. 
o (i l 7 I tu kill Do, Third. 
o,,ls Bihha i)e. Second. 

Subha ( 'huttopadhyay, Third, 
r, <;•_>! Kama Ray, Second. 

Manjari JMaulik, Second. 

^ila Bhattacharyya, Second. 

7, ( j Si la Bandyopadhyay, First. 

Ahunjuli Acharyyu, Third. 
r, () r, () Anjali Da tin, Second. 

" n _>S Suchitra Bandyopadhyay, Second, 
jij.jo Sila Senguptu, 'Hurd. 

"'(i’ll Mava has u, J’hird. 

Kama Sengnpta, 'Hurd. 

;,Si»2 A Jit a Ranchi, Second. 

Non-Collegiate Student, Bon-Hooghly Brahmananda 
Keshab Chandra College. 

ROLL CAL. F. N. 

■jl |o Krishna Ghosh, Third. 


Burdwan Maharajadhiraj Uday Chand Women’s College. 


(i 


in 

1 °. 


'.ii 

-I 


.1 




t.i i 
02 
(,5 
<•7 
t>‘.» 
7<i 
71 

t ‘J 

7.4 
71 
i 7 
7s 
su 
*1 


j.-, 

S’! i 
ho 
*»i 


ROLL BUR. F. 

Nihcdita Baksi. Second. 

Kalita Mitra, Second. 

Minati Kivy. First. 

Anita Sen ray. First. 

Kckliurnni Sd, Second. 

Suiata Sanya I, Second. 

Miinjnlikii Chattopadhyay , Third. 
Kamnla GangnpiKlhyay Third. 

I' inn M nkliopadhyay , Third. 

I apiit i Nag, Third. 

K a Ip; i mi Ray, Second. 

1 1 1 1 \ Sen, Third. 

Mandira Sarkar, Third, 
hidpatm Gliosli, Second. 

< hundana Basil, Second. 

I > 1 1 1. 1 1 1 |);il In (Mrs. Ray), Second. 
\ i*u tin I'iil, Third. 

Muslim Mukhopadhyay, Second. 
^i;i Saikar, Second. 

Siinanda Pal, First. 

Krishna* Nag, Second. 

Max a G hosli . Second. 

Namita Kay, Third. 

Minna Kay, Third. 

Mu Kav, Third. 

Hiiinli Mitra. Third. 

Sani.irani ( 'haudlm i i , Third. 
Swastika C’haudlinri, Second. 

Mijali K'av, Second. 

Mnma Acharyya, First. 

Nam it, a Ghosh, Second. 

.\purna Ghosh, First. 

I npti Bandyopadhyay, Second. 
Kami! a Ray, Secr/nd 
Svamali Ray, Second. 

Miasu\a Pebi, Third. 

Fuslipa Kaksi, Second, 
lia k ul Chakrabarti, Fi~st. 
s aid,a Chakrabarti, Third. 
Sandhvji.rnni Konar, Second. 
S'lshainnr.ini Pc. Third. 

•mania Mnkhopadh.Nav, Second. 
7 ,'ldia Sinlia, Third. * 

' laknti Ghosh, First. 

’I'hra Sarkar, Second. 

I*ma Rav, Second. 

^'pia Itasu. Second. 


Burdwan Raj College. 


l 


1 

<’) 

k 

10 

U 

17 

1R 

at 

25 




1 k'hnsis Randvopadhyay, Third. 

■ "iviipada Kimur. Second. 

I! n!’i , or Bhattacharyya. Third, 
i ; nk’nkar Bit, Third. 

I» r SWftr Chttudhnri, Third. 

" ^narayan Chattopadhyay, Tliird. 
Kr.l'h , Gh °sh. Third. 
Nl,7, 1 , akm , k i lr Majumdar, Third. 

^? nda Jli Thirt - 

Binn.n Ab edm, Third. 

mnar Bandyopadhyay, First. 


20 Arildhoudusekhar Bhattacha-ryya, Second. 

27 Swapanknmar Biswas, First. 

28 Shashtlnhhnslian Glu/sb, Second. 

29 Kamalkanta Konar, Second. 

;k4 Suhhashchandra Chattopmlhyay, Third. 

.‘k5 Saniaiendra Chakrabarti. Seen ml. 

44 'J’apaskiiinar Gangopndhyay , Third, 
i 1 Snhlia.slichandra Ghosh. Second. 

.51 Siijitkumar llati. Third. 

,5.4 Prasantakumar 4 as, 'J’liird. 

5,5 Dilipkuimir Konar, Tliird. 

70 Narayanchandra Pas, Second. 

71 Mohiuil»l Gangopadhyay. Second. 

72 S> amapadii Ghosh, TJurct. 

70 Kal>ankumar Ghoshal, Second. 

74 Knlmadu Gnnta, Second. 

77 Krishnachandra B:\ndyopad I iya»y, Third. 

79 Nimaichand Pe, Third. 

HO Umaprasad Bhattacharyya, Second. 

81 K'amaprasad Chanidhun, Third. 

84 Bhuguhutkumar Ghosh, Third. 

84 Nimaichandra Gliosh Third. 

85 Nirmalendu Mitra, 1 (Regn. JNo. 7750 of 19.59-00), 

Second. 

8(> Pehaprasad M nkliopadhyay , Third. 

87 J’ratulkuniar Chattopadhyay, Second. 

88 Nalmkisor Konar, First. 

90 Ganapati M nkliopadhyay , Third. 

97 Nilkantha M ukhopa<TTi> a*> , Second. 

98 Rarumohan M nkliopadhyay. Second. 

100 Ainiyakumar Gliosli, Third. 

104 I'arasankat Ghosh, Second. 

104 Arnnknmar Chakrabarti, Second. 
lOo Panchannn Dandyc/padhya.v, Second. 

100 Baniprasad Bhattacharyya, Thinl. 

107 Balaichandra P.is, Thir l. 

111 Manikgopal Manila I, Third. 

112 Bhugirutli Ghosh, Third. 

121 Sk. Fakir Mohammad, Third. 

124 Pilipknmar Sain, Second. 

121) Purgapada Saha, Third. 

127 Bamapada Bay, Second. 

128 JLuripada* I’al, Third. 

129 (’liapales M nkliopadhyay , Third. 

142 Keiinpadu Man dal, Third. 

1.4.5 < ’hi Llurun jati Konar, Third. 

140 (hiuladlmr Maji, Second 

148 Unu»pada Malianta, Third. 

149 Bijayanauda Karmakar, 'Third. 

I 10 Santosldviimar Gulia, Second. 

1 12 Kasmath Gliosli, 'Third. 

144 i)aulata’aiu Gangopadliya.N , 'Third. 

14.5 Snhodlikiiinar l><*, 4’hird 
118 J’rangopal PaLLa, Third. 

1.50 Snhraiakuinar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

1 .55 Snprahhal C’hakraharti, 'Third 
1.50 J’rahhat Chakr;»harti, Second. 

101 Gopallal Sethi, Second 

102 Aimyaknmar Ta. Second. 

10.4 Si/hrah Ali, Third. 

107 Snnilknmar Sarkar, Second. 

109 Mohinnnolian Sam, Third. 

174 rrahirkumar Sin ha ray, Second. 

17.5 Pilipkumar Mukhopadhyay , Third. 

181 Mahadch Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

182 Snnilknmar Mukhopadlix a> , Firs!.. 

188 Nimaichandra Gan, Third 

191 Bamaprasad Patta, Second. 

191 Riswanatli Patta, Third. 

19.5 Bmialkiimar Pas, Second. 

199 Namgopal Pan, Third. 

2(K) Bipndhlianjan Chniiflliiiri, Second. 

201 Muktiranjan Chakraharti, Sc»emid 

202 Snkumar ChattopmOiyav, 'Third. 

201 Gohinda ( Hiakraha rti. Third 

200 Ramanatli Bhat 1 acha iy> a , 'Third 

208 Prasantaknmar Saluwm, Second 

209 Heniendranarayan Rav. Second. 

211 Pilipknmar Nag, 'Third. 

212 Muhammad Nurul Alain, 'Tliird 

21.5 Naztnul Alam, First,. 

210 BiRMidch Sarkar, SfM*cm«l . 

217 Mamklal Bhattacharyya. 'Third. 

221 Abu Maniruddin. Third. 

22.5 Snldheswar Ray, Second. 

220 Snsantakuinar Cliattopadhx ay, Si'cond. 

227 H arisrwlhnn ^Bandyopadhyay, Second 

228 Himansnkiimar Bandyojmdhyay, Third. 

2.4.5 Md. Nil rnl TJooda, Third. 

2.47 Mol la Safikar Kuhnian, Second. 

240 Abdul Ohid, Second. 

24A Seikh Rafique Alam. Third. 

2*50 Sankarkrishna Chakraharti. Third. 

260 Bhagbat chandra Ray, Second. 

201 S.vamalkanti Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

202 Ajitkumar Pal, Third. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. MARCH 29, 1962 


| Part ijj 


70 


No., nanio and division. 


20 I 
207, 
l!07 
278 
2S1 

28 7 
29A 

29 1 

21 IS 
A()1 
ABA 
AIM 
A»r> 

ado 


Burdwan Raj College. 

ROLL BUR. 

\ I m iul Dliwl Molltt, Fust. 

Amu All Alallik, 'J lut'd. 

Kn*uLiruu|au Basil, Second. . 

Chow dhury llasano/. Hainan Haidar, Second. 

Seiajul I -Jam, iliirii. 

Amlkumui Sam.mia, Second. 

A rddlicndii Buy, Second. 

( hit t.m anjan Ba\ , Tlimi. 

Bunihdu i*swi. Third. 

Sun ilkiitnur Nandi, Second. 

Sunillvuniai A1 ukhopadhyay , 

.M din k lunar Nath, 'Hurd. „ ,. n . 

Ai unkuniHi Snikai, I dli'nn. No. (KH ol l.»o.M>0), 
Second. 

Asi slihamlhu Sarkai, 'Mill'd. 


Second. 


Central Calcutta College. 
ROLL CAL. 

OAO Arunoliandra* Da 11 a, Third. 

0A7 Molla Aid. Amsur Bahman, 'Ihitd 
0A8 Md. Mat i n r Bahman. Miird. 

0A9 Sankannitli 'lliaknr. Second, 
did Turd ( hattopadhyay, 'Miird. 

(ill Sk Amur All, Second, 
did Nnnsar llossswn. Third. 

(ill Sania i (Mid i ana til Misra, Second. 

045 Suptknmar Mitra, Third, 
did Bajkumar Basil, Third. 

(» IS A I iry.n A lain I Hamid, Second. 

(ltd Sk. Vasin. 'Mill'd. 

dad Qna/ii Hussam Imam, Second 

07, | M i niidkaiit i (iuliamallik. Second. 

(m2 Md A/aznl llaqm , First. 

07.A Dchkumar M uklmpadhvay , First. 

I’m I \ I*' M. Moslch Dddin, Scrimd. 

07,7, A I m 1 1 1 1 I 4 at tah Mullah, Second. 

05i> Ki ishnapt nsnd De, l 4 list.. 

057 Kalvanknmar Basil, Second. 

07>S Si ha tosh ( Miak i aha 1 1 1 , Second 
(i,V.) Asok Ba*ndyo|»adli\ ay, r Mnrd. 

OOO Saranknmui Basil, Second. 

(>( id Samir Bay, Third. 

000 Kama I llvdor Siddi(|ne, Second 
6d7 Md. Abdul Maniuin, Thud. 

(ids SliaiU B ahii il I IsKjue. First. 

009 Md. Kanin Boksh. Second. 

(»7d N ihari anj. in Cluiki -diarl i. First. 
d71 ' Syanudkumar ( 'ha ttopadhyay . Second 
072 Asitkiimar De. Second. 

(>7:; dayantakuniiii Bhadra. Second. 

(J7 I Dim escliandra Sen. Second. 

077) Sw npankumnr De, Third. 

070 Kwnpnnk nmar < ’hakrahart i. Second. 

(17S lapankanti Mitra, Second. 

079 Dhnd»a*lo(“han Ba.1, Second. 
dSd Dhananpiy Maiti, First. 

(3H1 Biswana i It Bliat tacliaryyn , Second. 

(iS2 Banemli .math Bhnttnchnrvy a. Second. 
(iSd Sai ojksHil i Basak, First. 

087) Aim Savced Mohammed Abram. Second. 
(iS7 Santakmnai Band vopadhy ay, 'Miird 
('►89 Ayuh Hussam. 'Miird. 

090 ( 5>kul gohmda Biswas, First 
till! Arahimla. Hhosh, Second. 

092 .1 avail takuma-r Bandyopadby ay. Second. 

09A Shahhir Ahmed, First.. 

091 Md Haidci. Second. 

097 Hauler Ali Khan, 'Miird. 

(JDS A/. am Mohammed Amelia, Second 
099 Ziaul Qamar, Second. 

7o| Sh.dii,u(‘ Ahmed, Si‘cond. 

702 Md. Alushtmpie Ahmed, First. 

701 Mohammed Fa rhat.nl lab. Second. 

70A M. H. Abdul Hakim, Third. 

700 Md. Khuisliidid Hasan, Second. 

70S Ashrat Kalnm, Third. 

71() Abdul Unfiqiic Khan. 'Third. 

71 A Mohammad Kamil, Third. 

7ir> S. AI. Shnmin Ahmad, Third. 
tl(> Abdul Bari, Second. 

717 Ma/.lia-r Jamil Siddirjui, Second. 

719 Md. Zcauddin Malliek, Second. 

721 A(|il Akht.ar Kiddiqui, Second. 

722 Syed Ah mod itassa, First. 

721 Klmrshid Anwar, Second. 

725 Nusrat .Inmeel, Second. 

727 Md. Shahid Iqbal, Third. - 

729 Aid. Shnrfuddin Ashraf, Second. 

7A0 Irshad Ali, First. 

7.‘U Sved Alnnal Shah Alcpiadri, Second. 

7H‘2 Nirodkumar D$b, Third. 


No., name and division. 

Chandernagore College. 

ROLL CHANGER. 

J Nimai Smharay, Third 
2 Harinarayan Das, Soeuud. 

4 Karunumu.v BhaLtacharyya, Third. 

8 Arupkumar liuy. Third. 

12 Aninkumar Chakrabarti, Second. 

Id Amarendrumith Alnkhopadhyay, Third. 

10 Dehu.ii ayan Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

17 Bidyutkiran M ukhopadhyay, Second. 

IS Asokkumar ( Tiakrabarti, Second. 

19 Aninkumar Das, Third. 

22 Asitkuniar Khan, Second. 

2 A Asokkumar 11 ay, Third. 

20 Baluram Pal 'Third. 

A0 Dilipkumar Datta, Second. 

AJ Hohindachatidra Aiandul, Third. 

AA (jiaurgopal Das, Third. 

A7 Knslinachaitany a Kuiidu, Second. 

•AS Kisorimohan Laha, 'Miird. 

A9 Kunailal Ivundu, Third. 

11 Madlmstidan Bakshit, Second. 

40 Indranuth Das. First. 

4< Sajalkumai Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

50 San ti ram Chosli, Second.-* 

7>.» Samurchamira Chandra, Third. 

51 Sitalprasad Kundu, Third. 

7>5 l niasaukar Chuttopadhyay, Third. 

7)0 .sanatkuimir Alnkhopadhyay, Second. 

7)7 Syamsundar Mukhopadliyay First. 

7>s Banmarayan Nandi, Third. 

7)9 Banjitkumar Baychaudhuri, 'lliird. 

04 I'aukajkuma r Bay, Second. 

07 Banpl Dcsarkai, Second. 

08 BasmohiHi M ukhopadhyay, Second. 

09 Siidhansukumar Bhar. 'Miird. 

70 Sibnath Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

7A Sarojkumar Chattopadhyay , 'Third. 

77> Amarnnth Bandyopadhyay, 'Third. 

77 'Tarapada Kundu, Third. 

78 Bati kan ta ( Ihakraharti, Third. 

80 Bainchandra. Das, 'Third. 

8 1 Pratapiiarayan Bay, Third. 

82 Tnplikumar Bandvopa<ilhyay, Second. 
87> Bcmmopal Bay, 'Third. 

ROLL CHANDER. F. 

1 Maiijula Nandi, Second. 

2 Ivatpana Alitia, Second. 

A 4 ill inkaram Saikar. Sccamd. 

1 Archamn (Biosli, First. 

8 Niti Alnkhopadhyay, Third. 

17) A rati Basil, Third. 

18 Bijavlakshmi B'ay, Second. 

21 Bana in Pal, Third. 

2A Anjati (Jhosh. 'Third. 

21 \soka Sur. Second. 

2-’> Arati Das, S<*cond. 

27 Ira Kumar, Second. 

28 .Inthika Djks. Second 

*»(* Kalian Adlnkari, 'Third. 

A7 Annua Das, 'Third. 

AS \nima Alnkhopadhyay, First. 

A9 Anjali ( Aiattopadhvay , 'Thiid. 

11 Chamcli Kumar. Second. 

10 Kanikahala Nandi. Second. 

17 Lina Sur. Second 

7)0 Nilima Sarkar. 'Third. 

7>l Archana ('hattopadhyay, Second. 

7)2 Bela Fhaudhuri, First. 

7)1 Arati (’hatt.opadh.vay , l 4 Trst. 

7>7 ) PnSimn Uhosh. First. 

7)0 Se])hah Bliat t acharyva. Second. 

01 Smritikana. Nandi. Second. 

(»7 Padharam Alnkhopadhyay, Second. 

09 Syamali Kumar, Second. 

7 1 Swnpna Sur. Second. 

77) Purnit;p Basil. Second. 

78 Sima Chakraharti. Second. 

81 Suhrata Afaulik, Second. 

82 Siichaiidrn Bandyopadhyay, Third 
8A Sohliana Basil, Third. 

80 Bam Alapimdar, Second. 

87 Katun Alnkhopadhyay, 'Third. 

88 Prntima Das, Second. 

90 Sunanda Alnkhopadhyay, Third. 

9 A Mini Alitra, Third. 

97 A Mima Bandyopadhyay", Third. 

9!) (Miitritn Alunsi, Third. 

Charuchandra College. 
ROLL CAL. 

597) Piiushknnti Mitra*, Third. 

590 Kalidas Chakrabart-i, Third. 

0(K> Amarnath Pathak, Second. 

002 Tarapada Mct^, Third. 

OIK! Sunilknmar Mukhopadhyay, Tliird. 



T11E CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


77 


I'aII'I IHJ 


lilt 

or» 

«ir 

|r,r.» 

M- 

io-jr 

igis* 

Ml 

M3 

;t'»J 

:v><) 

:0 

:V>f» 

{i;o 

'M 

!<A 

W 

c: 

|7l 


(i. 

Ml!" 
in'» 
4 :i 


No., name and division. 

Cfiaruchandra College. 

ROLL CAL. 

I’litiraiijiwi Datta, Third. 

^uajiankiiinar Gupta, Third. 
Rnbmdraehandra Chanda, Soeond. 
j'jabhutkumar Sen, Third 
yiihirkanti Chaudhuri, Third. 

Shiniklal Naekar, Third. 

Aiitkuinar Nayak, Third. 

Kunilkumur Banik, Third. 

1 Mulas Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

Wiamhil Ghoshal, Second. 

Dliircndninath Biswas, Soeond. 
j)(‘b;il Da*sgupta, Third. 

(I’nneschandrn Bandvopadhyay, Second. 
I’rnbliaschandra Purkait, Third. 
Aniamidrniiath Lahiri, Second. 
Milnrkumar Sen, Third. 

Komeswarn* Rao Mandaleeka, Second. 
Hiiuiiran Basu, Second. 

Ilxraknshna Nath, Third. 

Knainakuinar Jana, Third. 

AM Kumar Mitra, Second 
sjjhodhchandrn Datta*, Third. 

A nmi eii dm nath Majumdar, Second. 
Kibapadn Clmttopadhyay, Third. 

Mok Bhattacharvya, First. 

^.in.hhiinath Gnngopndhya.v, Second. 
Miiranmohan Majumdar, Third. 

I h man sum nj an Hay, Third 
I'.mtnsh Taraphdar, Third. 

Kal.Muikuniar Mitra, Second. 
s;u \iipi a*kas Chakrabarti, Second. 
Manikkuniar Chakrabarti, Third. 
I'anioslx-handra Achar.vya, Third. 
Ihimchiindra Bandvopadhyay, Third. 
Ilmia-ikuinnr BataSyai, Third, 
liad.ilchnndra Karbagna, Third. 
I'l.inairivuimir Das, Third. 

\iuml.mmlini) Ghosh, Third. 

"sij iiatu l;i Ghosh, Third. 

\ “'ll Kumar Chat topadhx ii.v, Third 
■* dedmai Singh, Third.’ 

' • 'I. in. uni Jha, Third. 

( s \ enka l<Mi at an. Fust. 

IWinf.mai li Dhar, Kirsf. 

Dnn.in.dh Pandit . Thud. 

\ i unknni.H Bandy opmllix a\ , Thiid 
' 1 1 1 1 1 , 1 1 \ ; dv u n , a i Basu, Third. 

• In* m ( hat topadlivav, Tlnul 
ihhushan Pal’, Third 
' ii imli .mmliaii Ra\ . Third 
,!l "■math Ghosh, 'Sm.iul 
PijMkkittuar H;n. Thud 
‘ ,v dimiiiaiaymi Bandyopadhvav, Third 
\ H m k 1 1 1 1 1 ; 1 1 Mitra. 't hird ’ 
l , ' i|>lin , laraii|an l) ; ,s. Tliml. 

:m:it h Smha. Second 
Jhii.»r|h: l i l Datta, Third. 

■ n ifnallilnishan Das Second. 

'-liiiadlian Biswas, Third. 

v MU 1 , I " {,r Ihitia. Second 

^»>i.»lk;.iH, |)o. Second 
'^".math Pavchaiidlinri, Third 
'‘■‘'jhKiiinar Kiimlu, Second. 

pi'V ,W,, , h, ! t h ( ’haudhary Second 
'■htlui . Second. 

N »la|Mlln, Third. 

t p'!! ' ’* ,r;it *‘ Mnulik, Second. 

" v,l, nnr Datta, Second. 

> Bn hit "T Ma .iunidar, Third. 

! s ' ;u kr,s| 'i‘»‘ ^Ghnnd.a, Third. 

■ H ««1 VV M!,, i Second. 

■ J'* , ' , V! ,, * ,ra Ghoshrav. Third 

ICTn (i, !!’ shal ' Second '• 

1 

Third - 

p,. , r Basu, Third. 

't'dilMui,!.!"' 11 ’? S 5, Km * 1 ' Third. 

“■"irisa t.? d S’ T V’ S "’ Sri'nnd. 

* n,; if | r :,' » an ' , '’"P^hyc.v. Second. 

N ' kt 'l’;,dVrh b B «n<lyopadh.vaj-, Third. 

„ ' f hakrabarti. Third. 

^"'.' l,; 1 ?. ,ll "i dar ' Third. 

r ni*. D « ra 5? rkar ' Third - 

Mr ">^kant T Pa S' yay ' Third - 
Sa, 1 | t ,r nl ' ^ araphdar , Second. 

;b"kka.nar K n 2| ho, ' ad J t ,yay ’ Second. 

^' J, naiichandr 1 f p y ? pa «hy a .y^ Second. 

p »ta„k u ^ r « *al, Second. 

ar Mukhopadbyay, Third. 


Hi, 7 
II, ! 
'4?< 
1 7*i 
S. 
S; 
M 


t; 


2.W, 
2(»02 
2(»0J 
2< iOA 
2(UK> 
2(;()8 
21)12 
21>l!) 
21J22 
2(>2J) 
27(H> 
II M 
1 J 1/5 
41 ID 
1120 
4127, 
1128 
4120 
4 1 JO 
1 1 41 
4132 
1133 
4131 
1 1.4A 
1130 
1140 
4148 
1151 
1 1 50 
4102 
I Ilk) 

I Hi!) 
4171 
1171 
1170 
1177 
117k 
4 Mil 
1103 
1207 
4215 
4218 
4210 
1221 
1223 
1221 
1220 
1213 
1250 
1201 
4200 
127.3 
1278 
4287 
124)2 
1205 
120(> 

1207 
1302 
0*» 1 7 


No., name ami division. 

Ctiaruohandra College 
ROLL CAL. 

Dipak (’hakrahait i. Third. 

Tinurha ran Dhairav, Sci ond. 
Rathindranath 1M ukhopadhyay. 4’hird 
Sasaiikasekhar Das, Third.’ 

Sukumar Majumdar, Second. 

Dwitendra Chakrabarti, Third 
Haraprasad Hay, Third. 

Ninnalkanti Das, Third. 

Dipakkuiimr Sen^upta, Third. 
Gaurchaitdra Ghosh, Second. 
Samircharidra Bareli i, Third 
Tapankumar Gan^opudlivay, Third 
l ranessckluir Sarknr, 'I’hird 
Bitmyhhushan Bhattacharvva, Third 
Hamemlranath (4ial,topadliyai , Third 
ihpukuntar Datta, Third. 

Dilipkuniar Basu, Second. 

Ganeschaiidra Hay, Third. 

Bidyut Oiattonadhyay, Si’rond. 
Mndulkanti Ghosh, Third. 

Salil Seiij'upta, Third, 
itajat k dinar Basu, Third. 

Gopat (Chakrabarti, Second 
Jupunendu Pramanik, Third 
Guptadhan Chaudhuri, Tliinl 
Sauriiidraiuohan ( 4iattopadhyav, Second 
Hanjitkuniar Ray, Second. 

Kankankumar Baksi, Third 
Mamklal Batabyal, Third. 

Siullim, »,ik„ mar llaml.yo|.a.lh.yn.v, Third. 
Mamklal Sarkar, Third. 

Madlm.sudan Patwari, fhird. 

I arcschandra ]»al, Thiid. 

Paiikajk lunar Talukdar, Second. 

A rahitida Sinha, Second. 

A,|il k lima > Sen^upta, Third 
Smliiansusfkh.ir Ghosh, Second 
Nirnaichandra Pal, Second. 

Ajitkmnar Chakrabarti, First 
Sunilkiunai Ray. Second. 

SaJiikumni Datta, Second. 

A sok k u mar Ghosh, Think 
Mamskuina r ( hatlopadhyai , Third 
I a pa nk uniar Chakrabarti, ' Second 
A|a\knslma Kar, 4'Jiird. 

Kamalcs Ghoshal, Thud 
Raiiiesohamlru Saikai, 'third. 

J arcschaiulra Chakrabarti, Second 
Jiijankumar Hindu, Third 
Suhhashchandra Pal. S<*cond 
A.iaykuuiai M ukhojiadhyay, Thin! 
Asitkuiuar (Jhoshal, Second 
CJiandi ahhushan M ukhopadhyay . Second 
Sukumar Das, Second. 

Since Ram Singh, Second. 

» BaJaraman, Tlmd 
IVnllu'.saruthi Son«U|'.(.a, Second. 
Makhanlal Sarkar, Second. 

Malay ra nj an (Chaudhuri, Third 
Kumlkumar Nag, Second. 


1035 

1012 

2013 

2011 

2018 

2019 

2025 

2027 

2030 

2037 

2041 

2048 

2044 

2046 

2047 

2048 
2050 

2054 

2055 
2002 
2004 
3294 


ROLL CAL. F. 

Sarbani Dasgupta, Third 
Dipalisikha Ray, Second. 

Sobha Ray, Third. 

Maya may i Das, Third 
Nibedita Das, Third. 

Kalpana Ghosh, Third. 

Ami Chattopadhyay, Thinl. 

I ratihha Chat topadhvay, Third. 
Arati Brahmachari, Second. 

Bily Ray, Second. 

Pratima Ravchaudhuri, Third 
■Tagadamba Ghosh, .Second. 
Kanak Bhaumik, Third. 
Triptimava Ray, Third. 

Santi Sengupta, Third 
Hndharani Biswas, Third. 

Bma Fihattacharv.va, Second 
Hajlakshmi Haidar, Third. 

Hina Dasgupta, Third. 

Beh, Sengupta, Third 
Nilinift Ghosh, Second. 

Chandi Bandvopadhyay, Third. 


Non-oollegiate Student, Charuchandra College 
ROLL CAL. F.N, 

2055 Pratibha Haidar, Third. 



78 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


21.3 
21 I 

215 

216 
‘JIM 
220 

229 

230 
2: 14 
236 

an 

380 


2725 
2727 
2735 
3120 
3132 
3434 
31.35 
3430 
3130 
31 10 
3157 
.3158 
1075 
1679 
10S3 
1085 
I0H7 
4700 
1701 
1705 
1707 
1710 
1712 
171 I 
4715 
1710 
1720 
4723 
1732 
078") 
0780 
0700 
0702 
0705 
0707 
0700 
0803 
0808 
0820 
0821 
0822 

0823 

0824 

0825 
0811 
C>812 
08 43 
08 15 
08 40 
0847 

0851 

0852 

0856 

0857 

0858 
0803 

6865 

6866 
6870 
6872 
6874 

6877 

6878 

6884 

6885 
(>887 
680(4 
6892 
6894 
6896 
6807 
6906 
0908 
6909 
6911 
6919 
6921 


No., name and division. 

N on-collegiate Students, Charuchandra College 

ROLL CAL. N. 

Amiyakuiili Sinlia, Third. 

'Tupnnkumur Rav, Third. 

Dipiikkumur Ghosh, Think 
Saiitoshkuniar Saha, Third. 

Amitahha Brahmachari, Third. 

Mrinalkanti ( ’hattopadhya.v, First 
Siinl oshkuniai ( 3ia I topadhya.v . Third. 

Saileswar Sarkar, Second. 

Anilkumur A1 ukhop;»<lh\ a> , Second. 

Snln ai aknmai M iikhopadhyn.v, Second. 
PraHuntakuniar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

Shiva Nara>an Ojha,. Third. 


City College 
ROLL CAL. 

Hi ajcschandra Sinha. Third. 
Dchcudrachnmlra Hal. Second. 

Biswa Nath Karat', Second. 

Jest a ram II. Palau, Second. 

Sithir Bhattuc1i:ir>yn, Semin!. 
Dijiakkutnar Hay, Second. 

Suhii knmar Saha, Sccoml. 
Suhhashcliandra Hay, Think 
Pradipkmnar ( ’hnkr aharti, 'I'hiid. 
Dmgadas Band\ opndli.\ a\ , 'I’hiid. 
Alohanlal Ghosh, Second. 

Slid ha ns uk n ma r Hand \ opadliyay , Second. 
Amiyakumar ( ’liaki aharl i, Third. 

Sum I kiimai Bliattncharvya, First. 
Smiilkiiin.ir Bandyop;ulh\ a\ , Second. 
Hipulkant i Ghosh. Thud. 

Vptkiiiuar Datta, Second 
Hidh n 1 >h it - h ;i u ( ’hakrahai 1 1 , Sim ond 
Piliishk.ini i Da-.. Think 
Saniares Glio'di. Thud 
Bhubaneswar Milia. Tlnid 
Hija\ ktmiar S.in\a,k Thud. 

Kamales Sinha. 'Think 
Dilipkuniar Datla, Second. 

Dihyendu ( ’hat topadhya.v, Second. 
Guurchamlra Gnswami, r Thmk 
Ja\ dchktimat Das, 'Third. 

Gopinath I)e, r rhinl. 

Sisirkumar Handyopadln ay , 'Think 
Since Vallahli Goidani. Second. 

Prasautak lunar (Ihosh, 'Think 
Asokkumai C’hakraharti, Second. 
SiMlhasindhu Maiti, Scm-oikI. 

Sasankasekliai’ C’hakraharl i, Sccoml. 
Rajktiniar Das, First. 

Hamchandra Chaudhuii. Second. 

Dclmath Bandyopudhyu\ Think 
Saflhanchandra Deh. ’Third. 

Ddipkauti Das, Third. 

Sana! knmar Daskui makar. Third 
Durgapadn Gangopadln a v. Third. 
Mtirariinohnn (ihosh, 'I’lnnl 
Jogctidranath Jana, Second. 

Sisirkumar Dt*. Second 

Susan! akmuar ( ’hat! opadh\ a\ , Fust. 

Dchkmnai Dan, Second. 

Tuslia i kan! i (’haudhuii. Third 
Dmgasada\ Aditx achaudhuri. 'Think 
Uapiarayan Das, Sccoml. 

Nalrikiiuiar Das, Hirst. 

Kalipada Giiosh, Third. 

C’h uraiu.ini (Jliosh, Second. 

(iopivlchandra Ghosh, Second. 

Arunkanh Ghoshak Second. 

Samar Ghoshal, Second 
Sanihhupada GuhabiswuB, Third. 
Sisirkumar Kundu, Second. 

Sanatkurnar Kundu, Third. 

Radharaman Mallik, Third. 

Kishanlal Dhar, Second. 

Amalchandra Gangopadhyay, Second. 
Syamalchandi a Dasgupta, First. 
Swadespriya Dasgupta, Third. 

Aloknath Datta, Third. 

Hupcliand Datta, Second. 

Debapriya Desarkar, Third. 

Jyotichand Baral, Second. 

Radhnnath Basak, Third. 

Bhaskar Bhattacharyya, Third. 
Bimalchandra Bhattacharyya, Second. 
Pradipkumar Chakra barti, First. 
Mndhahcharan Chattopadhyay, Third. 

Sa mares Chnttopadhyay, Third, 
Jayantakumar Bandvopadbyay, Second. 
Prabhatkumar Bandy opadhyay, Second. 
Chinmay Datta, Third. 

Dilipltumar Datta, Third. 


No., name and division. 

City College. 

ROLL CAL. 

6926 Sailcmlranath De, Second. 

6927 Sankar Do, Third. 

6929 Baruiikumar De, Third. 

(>9,30 Nukulchamlra Dhar, Second. 

6931 Habindranath Gangopadhyay, Third. 
6934 Kalyan Basil, Second. 

6952 Pijushkanti Das, 'Third. 

(>957 Ala mi bendrnk limn r Das, Second. 

(>958 Suhrata Ghosh, 'Tlunk 

6959 Bimanranjnn Gangopadhyay, 'Third. 

(>963 Sukumar Das, Third. 

6964 Mat hurmohnn Das, Third. 

6965 Ohittaranjan Das, Third. 

6908 Kamalkuirmr Das, Second. 

6969 Asokkumar Ghosh, Third. 

6971 Asitharan Ghosh, Second. 

6974 Prahhaskumar Ghosh. Third. 

0976 Dilipkuniar Mallik, 'Third. 

(>977 Tapnnkumar Mallik, 'Third. 

6981 Ajitkiimar Afnji, Third. 

6983 Dilipkuniar Majumdar, Second. 

6986 dm Prakas Makin, Second. 

6988 Bisliuiipada Basil, 'Third. 

6989 AmaJkumur Bhattacharyya, Third. 

6992 Salilkumar Bhattacliaryya, 'Third. 

699-5 Sant oshcliamlra Basak. 'Third. 

7(1(11 Amnrnath Cliakruburti, Third. 

7007 Dilipkuniar Ghnkraharti, 'Third. 

7>108 Asokkumar C’liakraharti. Second. 

7011 Asokkumar Gudiluiii, 'Think 

7012 Hariiikumar Ghosh, Second. 

7015 Biknschamlra Ghosh, Third. 

7018 A pin hakuiuar Garni, Think 
"021 Jagat h.imlhu Ghosh, 'Think 
7026 Hahimlr.nia! h Biswas, Second. 

7028 Pialul Biswas, Second 

7031 \ mi.\ akiimar ( ’ha 1 1 npadh.va\ , Think 

70 12 Amu up ( Jiakrahart l , Sccoml 
7051 Praia pk miiar Vdhikari. Tliml. 

7057 Timirkiiniar Ghat! opadhyay. Second. 
7059 Kainalkumar Mallik, 'Third. 

7071 Salilkumar Ilajra, Third. 

7073 Pannalal Guhal hakurta. Second. 

7076 Dipak Barwh opadhya v. Third. 

7086 Diiipkiimai De, Think 

7092 Gauichandia Saha jioddai , Second. 

7093 Asimkuinar Seiigupta, Second. 

7101 Xmitkumar Basil 'Tliink 
7117 Amdahha Sanval, 'Third. 

7119 Kanailal Sil, Think 

7126 Saiadindu Sinharay, Second 

7127 Parinial Sen. 'Third 

7128 Kama I Sen. Second. 

7129 M riua Ikant i Sen, 'Third. 

71-50 Dwi jendranath Sen, Thini. 

7131 Sa mirk u mar Sen. Third. 

7136 Amalkanti Sarkar. Think 
7138 Samhhunath Saha, Third. 

71l(> Bipulkmnai Saha. Third. 

7153 Suhratak umar Saha, Third. 

7157 Dilipkuniar Sarkar, Third. 

7158 Xtahiuda Sarkar. Third 

7159 'Taiunkanti Milia, 'Third. 

71(52 Malaykiiiuar Mitra, Thud. 

7167 Sanloshkiimar Mitra, Second. 

7169 Susanlakuimn Mitra, Second. 

7170 Hatanmani M ukhopadhyay , Second. 
7173 Nitvagopal M ukhopadli\ a\ , Thini. 

717 4 Snbratakumar M ukhopadhyay , Second. 
7170 1 siinohandra M ukhopadhyay, Third. 

7181 Bajntkumar Nandi, Third. 

7187 Nimai Ra\ , Second. 

7188 Dhruhajvoti Ray, Second. 

7203 Sibaprasad Pramanik, Second. 

7208 Arunchandra Rudra, Third. 

7219 Rabindranarn.van Ray, Third. 

7220 Samhhunath Ray, Third. 

7223 Anupam Ray, Second. 

7224 Dilipkumar Ray, Third. 

7225 Ranjankrishna Ray, Third. 

7228 Ajaylal Pain, First. 

7236 Anadikumar Mukhopadhvay, Second. 

7237 Ansu AI ukhopadhyay, Third. 

7246 Anilchandra Sarkar, Third. 

7248 Gopinatli Saha, First. 

7253 Asokranjan Saha, Second. 

7255 Subbashchandra Sen, Third. 

7258 Arunkumar Sengupta, Third. 

7263 Sanjaykumar Nandi, Second. 

7266 Sukumar Som, Third. 

7269 Ranikrishna De, Third. 

7271 Debendranath Sinha, Second. 

7272 Kamalakanta Sinharay, Second. 

7274 Akter TTddin Ahmed/ Second. " 

7276 Rabindranath Chakrabarti, Third. 

7279 SibapraBad Bandyopadhyay, Second, 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


79 


,* \KT IBJ 


7‘Jfl 
7-' 1,1 
7*ww» 
7.’. I" 
7 12 5 
7 >,.tl 
7 *,r» 
7 ',11 
7:11 5 
7 171 


rii.i 
■ ;< , l 1 

-?7n 

:i y l 

M\ 

"Ml 

.*% 

I’M 


"hm; 

"107 

-in 

-in 
-||5 
1 1 ; 


:r.i 
71 to 
71 s 
7 no 
7llo 
7 r>7 
r iv* 

; n;t 

710, 1 
7 On 
7177. 
7170 
717“ 
7M 
71 y J 
7 l y 1 
7 I'M, 

7 10“ 

7 O''* 

; vio 

7')07 

77,mg 

77.10 
7,7. )•> 
7r2 1 
7 W) 
7v}<; 
77>l>0 
7 no 

r.\\ 

77.-12 
7V{.; 
7.535 
77: 
7711 
77.1l> 
77 r; 
77. 1.7 

77.10 
77,10 
7070 
77)7 P 
7-770 
777 1 
7777 
77-7 
77n 
7535 
77Ro 
7^7 
77, Rr 
7001 
7500 
7005 

7007 

7010 

7014 

7r,*)*> 

;OL>i 

7o e 2r, 

7«2fi 

|7627 


No., name and division. 

City College 
ROLL CAL. 

<aktidas M ukhopadlrwiy, First. 

K a lan jay Sil, Second 
Prabodhkunuir Ita^Mulin, I bird. 

Mart liapnitim Das, Thud. 

\sokkmuar Basil, Thud. 

^iikmnar Datta Third 
Kasinath Datta, Third. 

(l.isianchand Sil, Third. 

\hf Nnrul Hilda Alollnh, Tliird. 
Malavkaiil i B:i\, First. 

(iojiiimth Ibmdvopadhv ay . Third. 
Tushar Bin cliaudhun, Third, 
saumycmlu Ghosh, Thiid. 
sk 1r 1 1 is Mohammad. Third. 

Mrasaiit akuniar Sen, Third. 

Waked Ahmed. Third. 

Mohammed Zatai Hamid. Second 
Uaiendrn Kumar Narang, Second. 

\ ’ 1 1 s>y Kumar Harsh, Third. 

Sure’iidra Nat avail dha, Second. 

Ma liendra Singh, Third. 

\w ad lies h Kumar Sinha, Third. 

Ihslnui Deo .Tha “Vinii”. Third. 

Awadh Italian Lai Shrivastvn, Third. 
Masupati Simi, Third. 

Kesahcliandrn Saha, Second. 
Siihhashehandra Ghosh, Second. 
\sokkiimar Chattopadhvay , Third 
Sakt ipada Ghorui, Third. 

Vnipkmunr Ba*gehi, Third. 

Manopnohan Nandi. Second. 

\|.n Uiiiuur l\d, Third. 

Ddipkmuar Das, Third. 

Miliirkumar Biswas, Third 
Ulmpendrana tli Das, Second. 

Mohanlal Das, Third. 

P»irendram*th Das, Seei/nd 
Marilosh Datta. Third. 

Dilipkmnar Ihiral, Third. 

Xniukumur Basil, Third 
Sam irk 11 mar Chattopadhvay, Second. 
Gopaial ('hat.topadhv.Ty, Third 
\tnalprusad Chakrabarti , Third. 

1 icl,a sisli Gupta, Third. 

\malkanti Das, Second. 

Pradipkumnr Basil (CnA, Second. 

Shvnni Sunder .Thunjhnnwalla, Second. 
K.ilish Prasad Gupta, Third 
Dm Prakash Sharma, Second. 

I*i“lnva Natli Sharma, Third. 

Dliohn K'am. Third. 

Moliommed Naseimi, Third 
Zalncl AH. Third. 

(hiumdra Parida. Tliird. 

Sue lam Cliarnn Das. Second. 

B Kulat.hu Iyer. Third. 

Navnit, Kumar Vi Barekli. Second. 
Kantibil Girdliarlal Kotluwi, Third. 
Daugarnju Banisetty, Tliird. 

Augustine Francis, Third. 

Blnitiahnt kinnar Bandhu. Second. 

Sant 1 ku mar Baisva, Second. 

X silk sun ti Das, Second. 

L(»lakchnnd Datta, Third. 
Nrinondranaraynn Mandal, Second. 
KintiMiushan Mukhopadhyny , Second. 
Hanpada Sarkar, Third. 

Alilnrdhiwi Datta. Second. 

Sii^ilrliandra De. Third. 

Davas.i nk ar Chnudlniri. Third 
Snchindraknmar Ghosh. Tliird. 
Aaravanchandra Pal, Third. 

( Candidas Mallik, Third. 
narlhoshYwn Goenka, Second. 

■ hvainji Valji Chowhan, Third. 

Lok Nath Ohoudharv, Second. 

«-niiit Singh, Second. 

, at, sh Kumar Talwar, Third. 
i <axmi Narayan Sharma, Second, 
^tarwu Glipta. Third. 
n 'li ^ ^ Murari .Tain, Second. 

S ,t ‘ hh Tain. Third. 

1v firn Sunder .Than war, Second. 

Pfc Kanodia, Third. 

' andra Prabsli Dhandhia*, Third. 
n ika Prasad Choudhury, r rhird. 
k'hammed Siddioue. Second. 

Ahmad, Third. 

Rll ^nne. Third. 

Minrad Chandra Mehta, Third, 
kivt n ”^ akn ^] 1 oan Iyer, Second. 

Metier" J\ a * E atwa ri, Third. 

A ban,* I 1 ^ ata k» a * Second. 


"rd. 


No., name iwul division. 

City College 
ROLL CAL. 

7030 XiiiiilUuinar Alitia, Second. 

7f>32 IJemntitnkumar Mallik, Third. 

703 I Asitkiunnr Pramanik, Third. 

7030 .logeselumdrii Saha, Third. 

7 < V 10 Flit emli auath Saha, Third. 

7<> 1 1 Prasant akuimcr Saha, Second. 

70 12 Anm akuniar S.nnanta. Third. 

7011 Mniialknnti Sen, Third. 

7(1' 15 Go pcs war Swi, Second. 

7010 Supinamindan Tliakur. Second. 

70 IK Anilkmnar Biswas, Third 

7(> ID •Madnnmnhan Chat t opndhv a\ . r l T hird 

70.50 Anilkanti Biswas. Third. 

7057 Biswanath Basil, Tliird. 

7058 Prat ikkumar Bhattacharyya, Tliird 
7050 Alanoranjan Bandvopadhvav , Third 
7001) Bisvvamvnda Bandvopadhvav. Third. 

7001 Samhhnhliiishan Bhamlari, Third. 

7001? Baidvanatli Chakrabarti, Third. 

7005 Alarnklal Dc, Third. 

701)5 Manojkuniar Datta, Third. 

7000 llnshikcs Datta*. Second. 

7007 Satisehandra Haidar, Third. 

7071 Manojkuniar Saha, Third. 

7(>7 I llasatit akuniar Sinha, Third. 

7070 Mil. Abdul Hamid, Third 
7077 Biitialkumar Aga*rv\ alia, Third. 

70K<) Uainesh Kumar Kapur, Third. 

70S I A mar Dnud Tam soy. Third. 

7(>K‘J Bam .la riant Towan. Second. 

70K5 Kislian Ball Ojha, Second. 

70»K1 Bajrang Bal Ma*roo, Second. 

7()t)0 Sajankuniar .1 him jhunw ala , Second. 

7001 Baingopal rmmdia, Second. 

701):; Sureshkiimar Mehra. Tliird 
70‘)7 Birendrakumar Singh, Third. 

7001) Badha Kishen Bahotv. Third 
7702 B:i|kuma*r Agarwal, Second 
77^5 Batneshwar Tiwary, Third. 

7700 Gin raj Bat an Sadani, Second. 

7708 Badheshyaiu Sharma, Third. 

7710 1 la ri Narayan Singh, Tliird. 

7712 Siihh Olmndra .Tlia, Third. 

7710 Md Akhtar TFussain, Third. 

7721 1' Tt Sankaran Kuttv Menon, Third 

77 >, ‘; Bala n Paramhath, Second. 

772 J Bamaehaudran O. P., Third. 

7725 George Varugheso, Third. 

772S Xsitkiimnr Seth, Second. 

7750 Arundeh Baiidyopmdhynv, Second 

7751 Satansu CFiakrabarti. Tliird 
7755 Bat liindranat h Datta, Third 
7758 Asokkumar Das, Tliird. 

7715 Balaikrishna Kar. Second. 

7718 dnannunian Mandal, Second. 

77 10 Tatilal Mandi. Second 

7750 Samhhunath Kundu, Third. 

7751 Ha 1 1 kislian Mohafa, Third 

775° Kanhaiva Lai Mehrr/tra. Second. 

7755 Sliyainsumlar Mislira, Third. 

7751 Afidiendra Kumar Melit.a, Tliird. 

7755 Bam Gopnl Afanlrv Second. 

7757 Bamvarilal Lohia, Second. 

7758 Deokishan Kothari. Second. 

7702 Dm a Shankar Khandelwal, Third. 

7705 Mohan Lai Jnshi, First. 

7701 Chain Boop Hitawa*!. Second. 

7705 Sajan Kumar Goenka, Third 
7708 Bam Awtar Goenka. Second 

7700 Bam Gonal Gattnni. Second. 

7770 Bliim Sain (5arg, Second. 

7775 Sri Nath Daga ((*a*L First. 

7770 T>ooti Kara nr Dana, Second. 

7770 Puran (5iand Chopra, Second. 

7781 Badhesvam Bairngra, Second. 

7787 B’arn Goi>al Baia*j First. 

7780 Gokul Chand Bagri, First. 

7701 Gnjanand Agarwal, Second. 

7702 Atma Bam Acrawala Second. 

7703 Shoo Lai Agrawala*, vSecnnd. 

7704 Shankar Lai Agrawala. Second. 

7705 Dm Prakash Agrawal. Tliird. 

7707 Afal Chand Snmani, First 
7808 Bamawa*t,ar Ginodia., First. 

7800 Mohd. Naseem, Second. 

7811 Kanaivalal Harichand Mehta, Third. 

7812 Bharatkumar Tnlakchand A-lehtn First. 
7810 Chamna*klal Bnchnbbai Cliohra. Second. 

7824 Surinder Singh Paul. Third. 

7825 Manock Dhanjishaw Vendrowalla, Second. 
7820 Ahdiir Rahim, Third 

7820 S M. Kamaluddin. Second. 

7831 Afr/hd. Haroon Rashid. Second. 

7832 Mohammed Solaiman, Third, 

7834 Mohammad Zaki, Second. 


so 


TIIK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


I PAKr IB 



No., name and division. 


No., name and division. 


City College 
ROLL CAL. 

7825 Mukhtar Ahmed, Third. 

7826 'I'. N. Gopulukn.slman Nair, Third. 

7811 Chundrakunt Nundlul Kheth, First. 

78 12 Anil Kniil .1. Kheth. Thud. 

7* Id ( humlruknnl .1 Sheth, Third. 

7811 Ghanshyamlul Chnndulal Sheth, Third. 

7815 .Ma-hemliii Kumar Umedehand Shall, First. 

78 16 Bipin Chandra Gmlharlal Shah, Second. 

78 17 Lulitkuiiiar Devidas Shah (C’a), Soeoiid. 

7 H5 ( ) Imlidul Harilal Patel (Oa) , First. 

7859 Moot ('hand Bagn, First. 

78(10 Moti f hand Bi*gri, Third. 

7862 Slianti Lai Jam, Third. 

7 8( Jo Dharam ('hand Jain, Second. 

7800 Nand Kishore ITurkat, Second. 

7870 Brijkishon* limkat. Second. 

7877 Baietidra Ptasad Bharadia, Second. 

7870 Ra»i Pal At ora. Third. 

7885 (iopi Knslntn Agarwal, Third. 

7880 Mohanlal Agrawal, Second. 

7888 Pesbarmal Aganval, Third. 

7880 .faddish Prasad Agrawal, Third. 

7800 Krishanlal Gupti*, Third. 

7808 Dilip Singh Golchha, Second. 

7807 Durga Das Damuni, Second. 

7808 Mndnn (’hand Daga, Second. 

7800 Mohan Lull Daga, Second. 

7000 Purushotfam Dalmia*. Second. 

7001 Smemlra Mohan Dliawan, Third. 

7002 Bishwaimth Didwunia, First. 

7001 Bhagwan Das Chnmlak, Second. 

7007 Puran Chandra Clnsturvedy, Second. 

7008 Prabhudayal ( ’howkhany, Third. 

7011 Kainiman Prasad Choudhury, Second. 

7021 Balkishan Churiwala, Second. 

7028 Madan Copal Agrawal, First. 

7020 Naravan Prasad Agravval, Second. 

70:i4 Oiii Prukash llimatsingka. Second. 

7028 Cmirdhnn Prasad (Cal, Second. 

7058 Susliil Kumar Manucha, Second. 

7055 Sam pat Bam, First. 

7058 llari Ralan Chandak, Second. 

7007 Couri Slmnker Tibrewala, Second. 

7008 Omprakash Tihrewal, IL (Regn. No. 21801 of 1958- 

.50), Second. 

7075 Shn Nath Dpadliyav, Second. 

7070 Kailash Kumar Vaidya, Second. 

7078 Gancsli Naravan Vvns, Second. 

7081 Nawal Kislmre Smoka, Second. 

7082 Raglm Nandan Sliarma, First. 

7082 Krishna Lai Singhi, First. 

7085 Shrco lihagawswi Saraff, Second. 

7080 La \m i Naravan Saraf, Second, 

7087 Deoki Nandan Saraogi, Second. 

7088 Shankcr Lai Saraogi, Second. 

7080 Matuk ( hand Shall . Second. 

7991 Vislnvaiiath Poddar. Second. 

7002 Pina Shankcr Poddar, Second. 

7002, Ramawatnr Poddar, Second. 

7001 Shankar Lai Poddar, First. 

7005 Vogemlrn Prasad Poddar. First. 

7000 Jaaahar Lai Shrimali, Third. 

8000 Pradtp Kumar Sett, Second. 

8002 \nmkumar De. Third. 

8002 Mokkumar Pattn, Second. 

8000 Adit \ asankar Sharangi, Second. 

8010 ( ’lnraraujan Sinharay, Second. 

8012 1 1 itendranat h Karon, Third 

801 1 Tarasankar Samanta, Third. 

8015 Biswanath Saha, Third. 

8017 Kart ik chan dr a Palye, Second. 

8018 Rchntiranjan Raha, Second. 

8010 Pijushkanti Bav, Third. 

8020 Snhasrhandra Rav, Second. 

8021 Maniklnl Poddar. Third. 

8022 Prahhaskumar Mukhopadhyav , Second. 

8021 Santaknmar Pal, Third. 

8028 Tulsi Das Sharrna, Third. 

8022 Mahendia Kumar Shrtrma, Second. 

802.2 Knligrain Sharrna. Third. 

8025 Mohan Lai Murarka, Second. 

8020 Lakshin an Mchtani, Third. 

8028 Muiari Lai Mittal. Second. 

8020 Parmeshwar Lnl Modi, First. 

8040 Bam Prasad Nopan v. Second. 

8011 Rama Kumiran Pandey. Second. 

8012 Ratanlnll Parakh, First. 

8017 Gouri Shankar Poddar, Second. 

8018 Punishottam Poddar. Second. 

8050 Khri Nivvas Rater in. Second. 

8057 Khsan tBIalx Khan, First. 

8058 Rridlii Clinnd Kothari. Second. 

8050 S u raj Batan Kothari. Third. 

8061 Kishan La»l Malani, Second, 

8062 Shew Rat.an Murda. Second. 

8070 Triloki Nath Khejtry, Third, 


City College 
ROLL CAL. 

8071 Basil Dew Khaitan, Second. 

8072 Nagur Mall Kanoi (Ca), Second. 
807 1 Mohan Lai Kanodia, Second. 

8075 Kaih>sh Nath Kapoor, Second. 

8070 Katun Kumar Kanoi, Third. 

8077 Kumala Kant Mislira, Third. 

8078 Prabhu Dayal Dammani, Third. 

808J Murli Dliar Dhanuku, Second. 

8092 Manna Lall Sureka, First. 

8096 Santosli Kumar Tihrewal, Second. 
8100 Raj Kumar, Third. 

8111 P\ arc Lai Sehgal, Third. 

81 16 Md. Azhar, Third. 

8122 Loknath Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

8121 Biioiulrakumar Mandal, Second. 

8126 Sanutkuinar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

8127 Samirkumar Basil, Second. 

8128 Sankarprasud Bundyopadhyay, First. 

8129 Bahncliandra Das, Second. 

8120 Rumcsclumdra Das, Second. 

8122 Bahinkumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

8 1 22 Nimaicharan Sadhukhan, Third. 

8121 Ta pan ku mar Ray, Second. 

81,2.5 Tridibes llav, Second. 

81.26 Kiwiugopal Majumdar, Second. 

8127 Anutahha Ghosh, Second. 

81.28 Ranjitkumar GhosaL Second. 

81.29 Sambhunath Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

8141 Sanjihkuniar Mukhopadhyay. Second. 
81 12 Madhu.sudan Kar, Third. 

8142 Haradhiwi Karmukar, Third. 

81 16 Narayanchandra De, Scorn id. 

8147 Radhamadhah Dchnath, Third. 

8 1 18 Asitkumar Datta, First. 

81.50 Bagalamvnda Ghosh, Third. 

8151 Asitkumar Ghosh, First. 

8151 Aimyakumar Ghosh, Third. 

8155 Sukumarchandra Ghosh, First. 

8156 Amalkumar De, First. 

8159 R'unipruxad Chatlopudhyay , Second. 

8 1 60 Gobmdala4 (’hat l.opadhyay, Second. 

8161 Biswanath Chakrabarti, Second. 

8162 Asiitosh Raychaudhuri, Second. 

8167 Ajaykuinar Basil, Second. 

8169 Balnram Batidynpadhvay, First. 

8175 Asithuran Ra\, Second. 

8170 Bnankumar Chattopadhvay, First. 

8177 Ktihiiushchandra Pal, Third. 

8178 Radhcshyniu Darolia, First. 

8179 Nand Kishore liawat, First. 

8180 Bhagwivn Sampat, Second. 

8181 Parincshu ar La 1 1 Saraf, Second, 

8 1 82 Bmial Chandra Saraogi, Third. 

8182 Kanailal Sen, Third. 

8 1 8 1 Saiish (’handra Sliarma, Third. 

8188 hide r (’hand. First. 

8189 Radhey Sin am Poddar, First. 

8191 Ihiij Nath Mull, Second. 

8192 Krishna. Kumar Kanoria, Second. 

8192 Binoy Kumar Kapoor, Second. 

8191 Dina Shankcr Khetmi, Second. 

8195 Khree Bam Giri, Third. 

8196 Bam Narain Chaubey, Second. 

8198 Naravan Das Bajoria, Second. 

8199 Ram Prasad Banka (Ca») , First. 

8200 Devi Prosad Agarwal, Second. 

8201 Otn Prakash Agrawal, Third* 

8202 Omprakash Seth, Second. 

8206 Sharnsundar Sharrna, Second. 

8210 ShiMikcr La 11 Khetan, First. 

8214 Gmlhar Lai Jhawar, Third. 

8215 Shyam Bihari Choudharv, Third. 

8210 Rnnihuksh Soni (C’a>, First. 

8218 Ramriksh Pal Agrawal, Third. 

8219 Raicliand Bengani, Third. 

8222 Krishnachandra- C. Dani, Third. 

8224 Md. Mr/tiur Rahman, Third. 

8225 V. Anandan, Second. 

8228 Tapaskumar Chakrabarti, Third. 

8226 Biswanath Datta, Second. 

8228 Jnladkurmur Datta, Third. 

8246 Amiyakumar Ghosh. Third. 

8252 Mohanhansi Kundu, Third. 

8257 Ranajitkumar Majumdar, Third. 

8261 Md. Nazal Ali, Second. 

8262 Anilbihari Pal. Second. 

8264 Kamalaka-nta Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

8265 Naravanohandra Haidar. First. 

8266 Rathindrakumar Basn, Third. 

8268 Mihirkumar Mitrn, Second. 

8269 Nilkamal Mandal, Third. 

8270 Javantakumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
8272 Suhir Guha, First. 

8277 Dhimankumar Ghosh, Third. 

8278 Hridayranjan Bhattacharyya, First. 


i 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


81 


'art ml 



No., name and division. 

City College. 

ROLL CAL. 


No., name and division. 

City College. 

ROLL CAL. 




. \ IS 

ur.» 

Ml 

.;*jl 


ri 

R7 1 
5" 
^2 

r- 

>7 

;i:»7 

400 

l'*i 

in*j 

f||N 

4Ki 

411 

m 

41 °, 

414 

415 

mr, 

in: 

422 
42 I 
42:. 

4 n 

4lh 
441 
417 
M 
47)2 
4i;“. 
141,1 
4;o 
471 
474 
47r, 
47s 
474i 
4»0 
4*1 
48:* 
4s J 
>4R<j 
490 
141)1 
141)2 

ton 

4 % 

soil 

bob 

Bll 

B12 

B]R 

to 

fei 

to 

to 

to 

to 

to 


Paresrhandra Sur, Third 
ihilalchandra Karmakar, 'Jhird. 

K.mailal Karmakar, Second 
\iTii|})tii)dbu Chakraharti, Second. 
iUuVondranalh Ray. Second, 
i) ikhalcliandra Chakraharti, First. 

\,,irer Ali Mollah, Third, 
s idliuudhun Adhikari, Third, 
lbicscliaiidra Uandyopadliysix , Third. 

jiiMViumth Bhattaeharyj* 1 ., T'liird. 

.s.ii \riidranath Ilium, ia, Third. 

\ { ||nrkumar ( 'hakraharti, Second. 

\iii;t Iciidu ( lluikrabarti, Second. 

I J o li.t 1 1 bL u ii i a r Chattopadhyny , Second. 

(,\*l)iii(lalal ChuUopudhyay, Third. 

15 mia|chandra Pas, Third. 

Ib.iKasehandra Patta, Second, 
sjiiiioshkuinar Patta. Third. 

7 KiiMnatli Pc, Second. 

Dipakk urn.tr Chnltopudhyay, Second. 
riiis (, npt < ‘hak i ahiwti. Second. 

(laii'ia prasad Busak, SiR'oud. 

Pci cr ( 4 nines, I'hird. 

.vunpopal Bliattaehsiryya, Second. 
fVliahrata Pjks, Second. 

\dli.u r, handra Patra, Second. 

Pia.santukuinar Gangopadhyay, Third. 

Nit:»p-lia ndn Gangopadhyay, First. 

*»ank liana tli Patta, 'I'hird. 

Saicshunmr Paschandhuri, Second. 

,J:i\ deli Chattopadhyay, IT < Regn. No. 19919 of 1958- 
.V.)), Second. 

AmiyaUumar Brahma, Third. 

\hainkuinar Pc, 'I'hird. 

’1 ( i pan l.u mar Patta, Thinl 
\illm clnindra Sarkar, Thinl. 

\iii.niiath Gc/swuim, Third, 
samil.umar Kumar, Third. 

I’.itmalal Mitra, Second. 

\nm akuinar Mitra, TJiird. 
li.nhmarnyau Prasad, Second. 

k i ipada Ray, 'I’hird. 

"iMikumar Ray, Fust 
'laniiikuniar Ra vchaudluiri, Second. 
lianadar.iTijan Saha. First. 

Midatnkumar Sen, Third, 
lb a-la\ Kumar Sinharay. Third, 
lismsidluir Seth, SocothI. 

Ilmuilkumar Mitra, Third 
lb .ihirkinnar Gupta, Third. 

J;»\<lt’l> Ghosh. Third. 

(htm>scli;uan Pc, Second. 

ITuras.mkar Pc, Third. 

' s \amalkunii*r Patta, First. 

Ihlipkumar Saha, First. 

^ulirata Sarkar. 'I'hird. 

Hihckhandhii Pal Second. 

■^luawaii Kumar 'I'odi, Second. 

-higal Ki shore Saraf, Second, 
lliuendrai Bajoria, Second. 

•bigdish Prasad Patodia (Flin.), First. 

"'atva Narayan Kanoria, Second. 

Matadin Kcdia, Second. 

Ihulhc'- h\ am Chaudhary, Second. 
iMiaiam ('hand Bhutoria, Third. 

Fuaslni Ram Singh, Third. 

Suic'.h Ohander Gupta, Second. 
i> l 1 ?*! ^all Goenka, Third. 

■ r l'. Kunhirania Variar, Second. 

' Hivatkara Panicker, Second. 

Miakki Vcetil Sreedharan, Third. 

; a. sude van, Second. 

J, Narayana Nair, Second. 

'■ P. Narayana Pisharoti, Second. 

(•ulsibchand Shah, Third. 

■ urondra Kumar N. Jani, Tliird. 
p ^ os * no Athaide. First. 

i, Ramanayya, Second. 

‘ • FCondala Rao. Third, 
inida Kumar Nayak, Third, 
ousljchandra Mabantv. Third. 

z il k * r »a. Third, 
vf; Fl £a Tiossain, Second. 

car Nath Singh, Second. 

‘ JKuH Narayan Rov, Second. 

2^** Jaiswal, third. 

T» n ara h | Gliand Kochar, First. 

Bii?i } a ? n Pandey, Second. 

Ham u ^ atawari,’ Second. 
v** 1 Prasad Singh, Third. 

San?::^ Tewari, Third. 

ShaJJ* < T ,nn ^ Third. 

S})>L tl Banthia, Second. 
vrar^ ai ! t Choudhary , Firat. 

Goenka, Seoond. 


8632 Manik Chand Kochar, Second. 

86341 Rajendra Prasad, Second. 

8636 Raj Kumar Sharma, Second 

8638 M. P. Rama Kimiaran, Third. 

8639 Juga«L Narayan Singh, Third. 

8643 Subramanyam Iyer, Second. 

8549 Surcridra Kumur Balasaria, Third. 

8666 Ananta Oharaii Pas, Third. 

8657 Ganosh Prasad Nayak, Third. 

8565 Iiulradulal Ktieari, Second. 

8567 Nisitkumar Saha, Third. 

8668 Rafikuddin Sarkar Si'coud. 

8569 Sudlinnsusekhar Ghoshal, 'I'hird 
8571 Manoinohau Adhikari. 'I'hird. 

8, r >72 J*ra>nabkuniar Band\ opaillivay, 'I'liird. 
8573 Pebondranath Randyopadhyav, I'hird. 
8575 Sunilkumar Bhal tacharyya, 'L'hird. 

8676 Suhalkumar Basil, Third. 

8578 Giypalchandra Baid.va, Second 

8579 Giwiesohandni Bahadur. Tlurd. 

8580 .Fagadischandra Bluimuik, Second. 

8582 Amiyakumar Biswas. Third. 

8.584 A lakes Chakrabarli, 'I'hird. 

8585 Sisirkumur Chakraharti, Tliird. 

8586 Bij ay narayan Chattopadhyav, Third. 

8589 Kalipada Chakraharti, Third. 

8590 Riiilondranatli Cluil topadhyay , Second. 
8592 Pulalkanti Pas, Tliird. 

8595 l^akshmikanta Pas, Third. 

8596 Sukumarchantlra Patta. Tliird. 

8597 Rabindranath Patta, Tliird. 

8598 Gaurmohan Patta, Second. 

8600 Pobendranath Pcsarkar, Third. 

8601 Bimalkumar Gangopadhyay, Second. 

8603 'Aiitkumar Ghosh, Second. 

8604 Samarondranath Ghosh, Second. 

8605 Achint.vakumar Ghosh. Tliird. 

8607 Kalipada Ghosh, Third. 

8609 Biswanath Kar, Second. 

8613 Sisirkumar Mukhopadhyny, 'I'hird. 

861.6 Saritkumar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

8616 Kalikinkur Mukhopadhvav, 'I'liird. 

8617 Ohandranath Mukhopadhyay. Third. 

8618 Nilmadhah Mukhopadhyay Third. 

8620 Niradbandliu Mniumdnr, Thiid 

8621 Tapendranath Miira Second. 

8624 Aruukumar Mitra, Third . 

8625 Rathindranath Mandal, Second. 

8629 Asitkumar Nath. Third. 

8634 Gohardhan Pal. 'I'liird. 

8685 Paritosh Pal. Second. 

8639 Kami Sarkar, Second. 

864 1 Suhridkumnr Saha, Third. 

8642 Samiran Saha, Third 

86-44 Kesahchandra Samanta, Second 

8646 Pilipkumar Son, S<*cond 

8647 Phircndranatli Sikdar, I'liird 

8648 Amalcndu Cliakiaharli 'I'hird 
8651 Shiw Prasad Marda Thiid 
8653 Ranjit. Kumar Naliata Third. 

8f»54 Ram Nandan Prasad. Thiid 

8662 Nnnd Kishore Sinpli. Third. 

8663 Ram Akhal Sinha, Second. 

8665 Gaursundar Karmakar, Thir<l 
8<>()0 Manik Bandvopadhva.\ , Second 

8667 Sankarprasad Bhattacliarvvn . Third. 

8669 Gaurharan Challopadhx a v, I'hird. 

8(570 Raniitkumnr Clialtopadhyav Sci-oml. 
8671 Samarondranath Pas Third. 

8676 Tusharkanti Hajra. Second. 

8678 Sukatnalchamlra 'Maiumdar. Third. 

8680 Sukdch Mandal, Third. 

8683 Sunilranjan Salia. Third. 

8684 Surendrakumar Soil. Second. 

86R5 Pipakkumar Sinha, Second. 

8686 Ramcschandra Sutar Third. 

8691 Ataaihhushan Basil, Second. 

8692 Pranavkumar Basil, I'hird. 

8693 Baidyanath Bhattacharyva, I'hird 
8696 Prantoshranian Bliaumik, Second. 

8698 Aiitkumar Chakraharti, Second. 

8703 Priyatosh Chakraharti, Second 

8704 Samarnath Chakraharti. Sccoml. 

8706 Prasantakumar Ohnttopadhvav. Second, 
8708 Prabhatkumar Chattopadhyav. Second. 

8710 Arunkumar Chaudhuri, Second. 

8711 Samhliunath Chaudhuri, Second. 

8712 Manindranath Barman. Second. 

8714 Alokkumar Bandvopadhvay. Second. 

8716 Gaurangachandra Pe. Third. 

8717 Asimkumar Mitrn, Second. 

8721 V. R. Balaehandran, Third. 

8722 R. Eaiwara Ayyar, Second. 

8726 Varghena Pappachan, Third. 

8727 C. v7 Venketeawaran, Third. 



mTTi? „ \ a t ni^rrrr A n 4 7T?.TT17. XiADfU 1 QA7 rpi». 



8728 
874 1 
8712 
8744 

8714 

8715 
8719 
8719 
87.10 
8752 

875.4 
8750 
8757 
8794 
8700 
8797 

8799 
8772 

8774 

8775 
8770 
8781 
8782 

878.5 
8788 

8700 

8701 
8704 
8701 
8700 
8708 
8700 
8802 
8804 
880 1 

8800 
8808 
8812 
8814 
8810 
88 1 8 
8810 
882( I 
882 L 
8822 

8824 

8825 
8827 
8820 

8840 

8841 

8842 
88114 
8845 
8840 
8810 
8811 

8814 

8815 

8847 

8848 
88-10 
88.50 
8852 
88-54 
8855 
8850 

8857 

8858 
8800 
8801 
8802 
8804 
880.5 
8800 

8807 

8808 


8878 
8880 
8884 
8884 
8807 
8!K)4 
8000 
8007 
8000 
8011 
SO] 4 
8014 
8915 
8010 
8921 
8920 
8928 


No., name and division. 

City College. 

ROLL CAL. 


V . K. Vergliese. Third. 

S. lluriliaran. Third. 

S. ('Iiinidrnseklinrari, Second. 

K. Balasulw aiuaiuan , Second. ^ 

|< animal ha n Aravainudhan, Second. 
S. \“ isw'anat linn, Third. 

K. H. Ana tit a Narayanan, First. 

It. I’uiirhapokcsaii, Second. 

K Lakshim Kanthan, Third. 

V ( iopalak i ishnan. Third. 

V. A iiantharaman. Second. 

Dliamai Prasad, Third. 

H.imnwtar ( h»>\\ dhury , Second. 
Dilipkumar l>har, Third. 

Sara! kumar Bamlyopadhyay , Ihirn. 
Mnham handra llera, Third, 
i 1 nslnkcs llhatt acharvya, Third. 
Asitahha Si I , Second. 

Sauries Sen. Third. 

Santo, shi anian Saikai, Second. 

Hamit kumar Sarkar, Third. 
SulKKlh<]»amlra Hay, I’hird. 


Mukulkrishuu Pal. Second. 

Amarkmnai Maiumriai, Second. 
HaiuMidrauat h Mitra Second. 

N.ircndi ak mnar M ukhopadbyny. Second. 

Nit i -.chaiuli a Mukhopadli\ ay , Second. 

A iii.i I kanl i Kar. Second. 

Itadhapopal (losuaim, Thnri. 

Dipankar G.ingoparihyay , Jhnd. 

Su, sail! a kumar Ghosh, Second. 

Dilipchandi a De, Second. 

Mnhaiil.tl Da .yiiptn^ Tliird. 

Ariinkumar Datta, Third. 

.lagmohan Sawhney, Second. 

Krishna Ganesh, Third. 

Syamalanpaprasad ( ha t toparihyay , Second. 
C. S. \ enkatesan. Second. 

Sulu atnam.i S\\ ammatlwiii, Second. 

H. Sulu anianian. Second. 

V. Sunkaranara> a nan , Second 
V. Haja Han, Second. 

II. Hainan, Third. 

K. G. H amamooi tliN , Second. 

H. Hamanioort h\ , I'hird. 

V. Haniaseshan, hirst. 

.1 . N. Ha.iai.mi Second. 

A. Pranat hart liiharan. Thud. 

S. K. Lakshmaiiani, First. 

K. S. Ka.su aiiiiin, Second. 

Venkatchalam Hajam lver, Second. 
Suhraiiiatiia her ( handrasekaran, Second. 
K. Sved lhrnhun. Second. 

A. Gopnlam, Second. 

K. V. V i sn anal han, h'irst. 

It. Y< nkatcsw a ran Second. 

I*. T. Mndlmx.i Ymnii. Second. 

P, S. Siibraniiiniiiii, IDrst. 

C. H. Hamakridmnij, Thud. 

T. S. Hujagopalan, I’hird. 

4. Hnjugopaluu. ’I'hird. 

M. Itadhaki islitian. Second. 

K. II. Hajngopahin, Third. 

(*-. Kunju Na\ai, Third. 

F. Hhaskaiau Pilhn I'hird. 

M. Knnhi Human, Second. 

A. Narayanan Kuttv, Second. 

H. Suhramoma hoi, Second. 

H. (lanapati l\ei\ 'I’hird. 

K. Gopinathaii. Fust. 

P. S. Gopalakrishmm, Third. 

Sachimlr anat h Basil lliird. 

( lauraii^aclmndra Hhattacharyya, Third. 
Sunitkumai Sen, Second. 


Hircndranat h Smigupta, Third. 
Ha nj it kumar Seugupta, Second 
Franabkuiiiur Rnychatirihuri, 1 


(Kegn. No. 18094 of 


1958-59), Third. 


Dlurendrachandra Sarkar, Third. 

Pi angobinda Pal, Second. 

Dilipkumar Ghosli, Third. 

(’hanchalkumar Banriyopadln ay , Third. 
Mrnialkant i Mitra, I’hird. 

Dwa lakes Ghosh, Tliird. 
tiiralal Hhatift, ’I'hird. 

Snreiidramolian Lai, Second. 

K. Habmdranat luiu, Third. 

Futhanathu Chacko George, Third. 

C. G. Varugliese, Second. 

K. V. Viswanatlian. Third. 

P. Gopala*krishnan Na:r, Third. 

V. (). Alexander, Second. 

T. V. Ramanathnn, lliird. 

Puthutyde Narayuna Iyer Krishnan, Seconds 
A. Si /a Sankaran, Third. 


No., name aoid divisiaf 

City College. 

ROLL CAL. 

8941 V. Rainachandran, Second. 

8942 K. Rangarajan, Third. 

8944 T. R. Sarangappani, Second. 

8949 R. Harihuran, Third. 

8947 K. Govindarajan, Third. 

8949 S. Sivakumaran. Third. 

8944 K. V. Raman, Second. 

8947 S. Krishna Kumar, Second. 

8950 R. Vedanarayanan Iyer, Second. 

8951 Nirmnlkumar Nayak, Third. 

8952 Ajit Nam, First. . 

8954 Bina.vhhu shall M ukhopadh.vay , I bird. 
89-5.5 Suhodhchandra Kar, I'hird. 

8957 Taritk mnar Bandy opadliyay, 1 hud. 

8959 .layantadeb Raychaudhun, Third. 

8900 Dilipkumar Maitra, Third. 

8991 Kajalkumar Basu, Tliird. 

8902 Syamalkumar Basu, Third. 

8994 Dibakar Bhattncharyya, Second. 

8905 At ulkrishna Hhattacharyya, Third. 

8<Ki9 Basitfleh Bhattacharyya, Second. 

8908 Samirkumar Bandyopadhyay, third. 

8971 Hanmchandra Ben i a, ^ Third. 

8972 Timirbaran Bhawal, I’hird. 

8974 Sibsankar Bhadra, ’I’hird. 

8977 Dcbnath ( ’hakraharti. Third. 

898] Siiniti Chat I opadliyay, Second. 

8984 Ainiyakuniar Chuttoparikyay, lhird. 

8994 Dulalchandra Das, Second. 

8995 Lakslnnikanta Das, Third. 

8997 Tliakurjihan Dasgupta, Third. 

8998 Farima Ik lunar, De, ’I'hird. 

9000 Anandamohati Desarkat, Thnri. 

9(K)2 Sudliarikumar Gangopadliy ay , Second 

9004 Si Ixl as Gnyon, Second. 

Mil Fiadyutktimar Ghosh, Third. 

9005 Babul kumar Ghosh, Second. 

9008 Frabhuscliaiirira Ghosh, Thud. 

9009 Tarim Dasgupta, Second. 

9010 Svamalkanti <Juha, Thud. 

9011 Abhascliaiidra Seugupta, Second. 

9014 Alakkumar Gupta, Third. 

9015 Asitkumar Mukhopadhyay, J him. 

9019 A runk utnar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

9017 Tapaiikumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

9025 Prasantakumar Mitra, Third. 

9027 Bhngupada Mandal, Second. 

9028 Panchuram Mandal, Third. 

9042 Ariinkumar Nath, 'I'hird. 

9049 Panchugopal Pal. I'hird. 

9044 Debasish Hay, Third. 

9015 An i an Raychaudhuri, Third. 

9017 Tarunkanti Sanphui, Third. 

9048 Ranjit kumar Sanyal, Third. 

9049 Prabirkumur Sarkar, Third. 

9052 Narcndra Ko.va, Second. 

90.54 Na ray a n Mukhopadhyay, Thud. 

9055 Sukdeb Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

9<X>0 Tapaiikumar Srimani, Third. 

9075 Pareschandra Deb, Third. 

9088 Sudbansukumar Ghosh, Second. 

9089 Somnath Ghoshal, Second. 

SJ090 Asokkumnr Ghoshal, Third. 

9092 Pradipkuniar Guha, Third. 

9094 Asimkumar Gulia, Second. 
fKM)4 Sudipkumar Gupta, Third. 

9095 Sukhum ay Gupta, Second. 

9099 Phanibhushan llaldar, Third. 

9097 Sibaprasad Haidar, Second. 

9100 Nirmalcliandra Majhi, Second. 

9101 Paresnath Malik, Third. 

9104 Syamalkumar Mandal, Third. 

9109 Pradyotk mnar Mandal, Second. 

9108 Sudhirkumar Mandal, I’hird. 

9112 Bikasananda Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
9114 Swapankumar Mukhopadhyay, Second 
9114 Prasantakumar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 
9119 Dilipkumar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 
9117 Chin may Nandi, Third. 

9119 Paritosh Naskar, Second. 

9124 Brajalal Pal, Third. 

9125 Biswanath Pal, Third. 

9129 Sanatkumar Pal, Third. 

9127 Kart ikehandra Patra, Second. 

9129 Tarapada Pramanik, I’hird. 

9130 Rameschandra Roy, Third. 

9131 Milankumar Ray, Third. 

9142 Kanailal Ray, Third. 

9144 Sarojkumar Ray, Third. - 
9135 Asokchandra Ray, Third. 

9139 Ranjitkumar Rudra, Third. 

9140 Saratkumar Ray, Second. 

9141 Amitabha Ray, Second. 

9142 Alokkumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

9143 Debabrata Mukhopadhyay. Second. 

9144 Raj at kumar Mitra, Second. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. MARCH 29. 1962 


83 



Sukmniir Sarkar, Kirxt. 

; Sankarkumar Bandyopmlhyay, Second. 

, Su a pan Bamlyopadhyay, Second. 

\ lunkuinar Bamlyopadhyay , Third. 
\\\ Djhnkar Bandx opadliyav , Second. 

|| () Suro,i<*mlra Bamlyopadhyay . Second. 
|>ra<lipkumar Baksi, Second. 

„ - i Pipishkanti Bhattaeharsya, Second. 
ui-(, Sanatkuinai Bhat tacharyya, Third. 
ql "7 Pi usaiit akumar Bhattacha ryya. Third. 
t) L 'i Ncpalchandra Bliaumik, Second, 
ills. - , Kan jitkuina r Cliakrahart i. Second. 

Ills; Asitkumar Cliakrahart i. Third. 

; )[s < Mamklal Chukrabarti, First. 

„|s(| G.uiranga Biswas, Second. 
j,j«Vj M miaJkanti Baml\ opadh\ay, Second. 
K.ihindranath Datta, Second. 

Mai Ian Ball Agarwal, Second. 

Kahn Lai Agrawall, Second. 

|w s Balakrislman, Second. 

( ,.j ( is a nia i sankar (. hattopadhyay, Thiid. 

<|.>|(i (bines Cliakrahart i. 1 bird. 
i,: M l Aiavknmar Chakrabarti, Third. 

;r>[(, Smay Chanda, 'I’lnrd. 

qo.j-j Saph Dasgupta. Third. 

i,]-}/, S;idliaiichamlra Dnsgupta, Tlmd. 

I Idd"! Dipaklal Dutta, Second. 

!ijj; Kahindranath Datta Second. 

\|M I )att agupt a. Second, 
irj.ll) >ulendrakumar Do, Second. 

. | )il i |>lv U Him Ghosh. Second. 

')‘J,;7 .s.tinnciuli anat h Ghosh Second. 

NLmoranian Ghosh, I hu d. 
f rj 1 1 Mihirknan Ghosh. Thud. 

'rjlL’ >11111 Ik 11 inn i Saikui, Third. 

; rj | s kasin.it h Samaplar, First. 

•i‘j ,o IVini Gangopadhs a\ , Second. 

! rj | |)ni^cscliandra Gangopadh> a\ , Third, 
t cj. »*J Siidliatisti'ckhn i Datta, Second. 

; rj ') \ Taiagi anjau Das, First.. 

'ijhl kisorknmar Sanyal, I'liird. 

'siiniantra Sarkar, Second. 

! )'J( >t > >u In i Sen, Tlmd. 

'I'M >7 -mii. in |an Si'iicuptii. Second. 

Dlnra Iranian Sengupta, Third. 

‘ *‘J7i i Twlakondu Sengupta. Third. 

"J s l Dehdiis M ukhopadln a\ , Tliinl. 

Kahmdianath Poddar, Secoml. 
f ‘l* t •: » .Ja\ ant akumai Sen, Thud. 

K.unalohamlru T.ipadai, Second. 

IMi.l s Vim ana than, Second. 

'MIL* \ Sundaram, Seeoud. 


I >i 1 1 pk ii ina i Italdai, I hint. 
(h>|iendrakiiinai Biswas. Second, 
(i.iimsankar Ghosh, Second. 
Dipalvknniar Nandi, Secoml. 

1‘anmal Chaki ahni ti, Second. 

-'iid lianiaA Biswas, Third. 

Kal\ anknmai Ihij, Third. 

Ihaimh Bu.\ . Third. 

I’ Six a]»at ha m , I’liird. 

I’cma at h n in hi pi 1 1 n l W ija\ arat nain, Tliii 
s Natar.ijan, Third. 

Naiam Sohrainamam Shankar, Third. 
\uica Mohan .Malhotra. Second, 
t Intti" aniaii Das, 'I'hird. 

I hlipkminir Bayehaudhun, 'I'hird. 

Bat Iranian Dt*. Third. 

Anipratan Gupta, Tlurd. 

Kant hankant i Biswas, Second. 

I peiidi anath .M ukhopadhyay , Third. 
s,, -> J »nt a Bay, Second. 

\ it nialendn Chanda, Second. 

Bhaiat Patsani, Second. 

IhdvMtknmar Do, I’hird. 
liu'unkuinar Mitra, Third, 
^'•tnoschandra Sanyal, Second. 
■ S uhasehnndra Ghosh. Second, 
^'^initakumar JVlitra. 'I’hird. 

B Kajanayagam, Third. 

< Iwnvdhurv Abdul Alim, Second. 

• utkiimar M ukhopadhyay , Second. 

’ K ' :,s Bamlyopadhyay, Second. 

I, 1 ] M< » h «n Agarwala, Tliird. 
jV a heiulra Kumar Uawla, Second. 

W y Varum, Third. 
s 1 , 1 '":' $*•! *«rao K i, Third. 

J'lAn* 1 4 i ra,van Kuchimnnehi, Third. 
Tin 1 11 ak,lniai ' Deb, Second. 

Ki/i ,,k rlL lar Da ndyopad by ay , Second. 
Hi n u hftn(Jra Rath, Third. 

TOra - 


Ho 7 1 Tariinkumai Das, 'I’liird. 

1)7)70 Han pa da Alaiti, Second. 

0570 Kart ikehandra M uklmpadln ay , Third. 
Ho 7 7 Bunty blmshan Majumdur, Second. 

0578 Sukrit ikuinai Ghoslidast idar. Second. 
0580 Fdaysankar Bhat t acha i a \ a . 'Third. 

H-“»81 .M i inalkant i ( ’hat topa<lhya\ , Third. 


ROLL RI8H. 

87 Ja^.ulisehandra .M ukhopadliv a> , Second. 


ROLL CAL. F. 

l?o2S Sohhana Ghosh Secoml. 

IHAH Alaka Baink, Thiixl. 

IHin Kiimkum Alukhopa<lh\ ay, Tliird. 
IHU Anpihprahha Debi, Thml. 

IHt(» Sandhva Bamlyopadhyay, 'I’hinl. 
1HIS Dipt i Bacilli. Second. 

IH|!) I la Bay, 'Third. 

IH.VJ Nii nut a Dhai , 'I’hird. 

I Hob Lila Misra, Second. 

•IHoH Piiihhati Senjiuptii, Thud 
IlHi'J Pianati ( ’hakraliai 1 1 Second 
11 m;| Kalpiimi ( ’hakrahai 1 1 , First. 

IHtio Manunala Basil. Second. 

1H<)8 Dchika Sen, Si'nmd. 

IHTiH (hhahi Das. Secoml. 

IH7o Bluirati Sanxal, 'I'hird. 

IHHl Kiishna (ihosh Third. 

1HHS Sinuti Bamlx opadhs a> , Thud. 

1HHH >cplndi Gupta, riurd. 

“XMIO Ghitra Pain. Ihird. 

7*007 Fslni AchsiiAxa, Tlurd. 

7»010 Kcha Das, Tlurd. 

7iOl I (Jita Diis. Third 
7)010 Sant warm Bay. Third. 

7)01 I Sandhva (Julia 'I'hird. 
oOlK Aparapta Matuimhir, 'Third 
7*020 Leela Sm^li. 'Third. 

7)021 Itehmal S. /aril. Second. 

7)024 .Iharna Ghosh. 'Thud. 

7*02H Arati ('hakraharti. Second. 

7)02H Piatinm Basil Secoml. 

A002 Bra tilt i Sarhadhikari. Second. 

7)000 Sinaia Guptii, Second. 

7)004 Band.'imi ( Omt t opiidhx a.v , 'Third. 
7)00(> SnijLjdha Basak. Third. 

7)010 Anita Dasjziipta, 'Third. 

7)041 Aninli Bakshit 'Third. 

7)0 10 Nanuta Dalai. Third. 

7*017 Supti Bam!> opadhx a\ , 'Thinl 
*>018 I’niii Goswnmi. Thiid 
7)010 .Maitnwi Sen, Second. 

7)0 "iO •fliarim ( Omk i a hart i. Second. 

7)07)1 Sublm Chat t opadhyiiA , Second. 
7)07)0 Gann Das^upta. Secoml. 

7)07i7 Pushpasri l):is«i;uptii , Third. 

7)07)8 Doll> Cliakrahart i. Second. 

7)0<)0 Bauasri Bay. 'Third. 

7)0(51 Polly Datta, 'Third. 

7)002 Mamata C’lmki iihai ti. Second. 

7>( M 5 1 .Madhuri Ghosh, 'Thinl. 

•V H H> Tarn Mitra. Third. 

7)007 Mamata Alitm. 'Thinl. 

^HjH Puma Guptiichaudhun , Third. 

7)072 Nila Kamdat. Secoml. 

7)077, Chamlaim Misra. Second 
7)078 Miiripi Kar^upta, 'Third. 

7)0?H Kamik lllmttiK harysii, 'Third. 

7)080 Behii Band\ opsulhv a.\ . Secoml. 

7)082 I la Senjjcupta, Third. 

0088 Mini ha hi Chat topadln a> , Second. 
AOIHI Chhayarain M ukhop;nlliv;i\ , Thinl. 
7)0H2 \ m nia Band\ opadh.x ay , Second. 

7)101 Bitii Miijmmlai. Tliinl 
A102 Gitaii|:ili Biswas, Second. 

7>|O0 Lakshmi Daseujitii. Secoml. 

7>l07 Archuim Sarkar, Thinl 

o!l(> Manika Band> opadhva\ , Second. 

5117 Aruna Baechi, 'Tliinl. 

7>118 Sant i Gtiha, 'Third. 

7)1 IP Sankari Bhat taeharyya. Third. 

5120 Batna Das^upta, 'Third. 

5120 Sushama Chamlra, Second. 

5128 M uk ti Mitra, Third. 

5100 Bijaya Bhwwal, Third. 

5104 Sobha Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

5100 Manju Sen, Third. 

51 OH Mira Sengupta, Third. 

5175 Bani Sengupta, Tliird. 

5181 Mira Das, Third, 


84 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


[Part IB 


No., name and diviaion. 


City College. 


ROLL CAL. F. 

5193 Auiina Hand yopadhyuy, Third. 

5194 Chhandu Mi tm. Third. 

5195 Smriti Majmndau, Third. 

;*> 1 ? IH rand i a Hasak. Thud. 

5201 Sadhana Malta, Third. 

.5202 Ham Bhattacharyyu, Third. 

5200 I hillyt ani Bhattachaiyya, Third. 
.5211 Mira Hasu, 'i’hird. 

5210 Bitlnka Dasgupta, Third. 

.5217 Snigdlia Mitra, Third. 

.5219 lla M wkhopadlix ax , 'I’hird. 

5221 Kamala ('liakialaii ti, 'I’liiid. 

•5225 Amnli ( dial topadhvay , r lhird. 

5230 Manpi Gangopadh.vay . Third. 

.52:18 Lila Guhathakm la, 'Plnrd. 

5239 Rcmikn Gomes, Third. 

52*12 Si pi a Mitra, Third 
5217 Ratlin. ( >hakt ahai 1 1 , Third. 

.5248 Saswali Hand vopadh.vax , Secoud 

5250 Ham Cliaudhmi. Thiul 

5251 Mu a Sengupta, Thud. 

5252 Si la Ghushal, Third. 

5253 Durgaiaiu Mitra Second. 

5250 Laltka Hasak, Tnud. 

5204 Santwana Raychaudhuri. Second 
.5201 > Manju Guhat lirikiu la , Second. 
5207 Mila Majumdar, Seeond 

5200 Kapil M nkhopadhyay , Seeond. 
5270 Babv M tikhopadhyu.x , 'Third. 

5272 Rratima M ukhopadhyax , Third 
5275 Aiipili Ma|iundnr, Third. 

5274 lla Mukhopadhx ax , 'Third. 

5277 Aparna M ukhopadhx ay, 'Third. 
.5280 Man.|n II a pa. Second. 

5281 r l.votsna Khan, Second. 

5285 Rnma. Gupta, Second. 

5281 Siham Gupta, Third. 

5280 dharna Gungopadhya.x , Second. 
5287 Rinu Gupta, 'Third. 

5280 ( 'lihanda Gangopadhx ax , 'I hud 

5205 Man.pi Ghosh, Third. 

5205 Santa Ghoshehaiidhuri . Thud. 
5200 Naimla Goswaini, Thud. 

5207 da\ anti Guha, 'Third. 

5208 Minati Ghosh, 'Third 
5504 lla Gangopadhx ay , Thud. 

5508 Tina I) e, 'Thud. 

5510 Max a Datta, Third. 

551 1 Haudana Dasgupta, 'Third. 

5510 Saint a Dasgupta, 'Third. 

5517 Gann Dasgupt a , 'Third. 

5510 Gita M ukhopadhx ay, 'Third. 

5520 Nanuta Mukhopadhvax , Thiul 
5525 Rupasri Dasgupta, Tliinl. 

5521 Kalpana Das, 'Third 
.5325 An.iali Majtiindai. 'Thiul 
5527 Jayanti Haidar, Second. 

5529 Nairn! arani Daschakladar, Second. 
5.550 Katna Dasgupta, Second. 

5551 Ka<lpta Dasgupta. 'Third. 

5555 Manjula Ghosh, 'Third. 

555") Amina M nkhopadhyay. Second. 
5557 Si I a Datta, Third. 

5540 lla Ghosh, Third. 

5541 Uma Dattagupta, First. 

5J445 Tapati M nkhopadhyay. Second. 
5540 lla Deb, Third. 

5547 Sipra* Guha, Third, 

5:448 Katna Khushalani, Second. 

5349 Kyamuli Mukhopadhyay, .Second. 

5550 Purahi Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

5551 Tripti Ghosh, Second. 

5552 Bijaysri Das, Third. 

5554 Arati Das, Third. 

5555 Sipra Guha, Secoud. 

5550 Gita Datta, Second. 

5557 Subrata Datta, Second. 

5558 ‘Sunanda De, Third. 

5500 Reba Hajra, Second, 

5362 Sabitri Mukhopadhyay, Tliird. 
5:105 H. Parvatbi, Second. 

5564 Riiina Mukhopadhyay, Second. 
5365 Supti Gupta, Second. 

5453 Chhanda Sengupta, Third. 

54:44 Indrani Bagohi, Third. 

5436 Krishna Rayehaudhuri. Third. 

5439 Sr anti Baeu, Third. 

5440 Maya Mukhopadhyay, Second. 
5442 Nandita Gangopadhvay, Third. 
6444 Aaima Bharadwaj. Third, 

5451 Manasi 8en, ThirJl. 

5459 Arati Sengupta, Third. 


No., name and division. 

City College. 

ROLL CAL. F. 

5 15 1 Kusuin .lit Kour Batra, Tliird. 
.5150 Reba Dasgupta, 'Third. 

5159 Sakinabai Taherbhoy, Soccmd. 

5 401 Shantha Subramanian, Second. 

5165 S. Lakshmi, Third. 

5105 H. Sankari Ivor, Second. 

5175 Sobha Luliiri, Second. 

5171 Kajal Handyopadhyay, Second. 

6177 Suhhra Hasu, Third. 

.5178 I'ratnmi Hhamnik, Third. 

5180 Hharati Hasu, Second. 

5181 Suiritikana Datta, Second. 

>|S5 Pi n Inna Cliamlhuri, Second. 

5 MM I ( 'hliaya Bhattaeharyx a, Secoud. 

5 191 Ihania Handyopadhyay, Third. 

.5191 Tapati Hasu, Second. 

5195 Sijira Mitra, 'Third. 

5199 Garni Raychaudhuri, Third. 

55R3 Nandita Chaudhuri, Third. 

.5501 Shelly Hasu, Second. 

5512 Kalpana Handyopadhyay, Second. 
5.514 Kabila Chanda. Third. 

5515 .lavati Ghosh, 'Third. 

.5510 Piahhat.i Ghosh, Second. 

.5517 Latika Ghosh, Soconu. 

5.518 Nanuta Gulin, 'Third. 

5.519 Sunanda* Hhauniik, Third. 

5.523 Maniusri Handyopadhyay, Third. 
.5.515 Minati Ray, 'Third. 

5.510 Kanakprahha Kant. Second. 

.5551 Madhuri Sen, Third. 

5 5 5( » Max a J*al, 'Third. 

550(1 Kudina Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

5.501 Radlia Alahalanabis, Third. 

5502 Kamka Majumdar, Second. 

.550 l Suhha Gupta, 'Third. 

5505 Sila Ghushal, 'Third. 

5.500 Nanuta Hi>ndyopadhvay, Second. 
5507 Mamka Haudvopadhyay t First. 

5509 Reuuka Das. 'Third. 

.557:1 Helena Chattopadh.vay, Third. 

5575 Kalvam Datta, 'Third. 

5570 Alaka* Datta. Second. 

5578 Csha. Bedajna, Tliird. 

.5583 Mamka Hasu. Third. 

5588 Max a rani Haudvopadhyay, Second. 
55x9 fhliahi Rax, Third. 

5.590 Ch hay a Raychaudhuri, Third. 

.5591 A? pita Sanya!, Third. 

5.59 I K a 1 a 1 Biswas, Th i rd . 

5590 Sunn I i Kar, Second. 

5005 Aparna Hhattacharyya, Second. 

5007 Rina Da*s, Tliird. 

5010 Aipah Chattopadhyay, Third. 

5013 Bandana Chakraharti, Third. 

5015 lla Chakraharti, Third. 

5017 Rat , hr Chakraharti, Second. 

5622 Anupama Gangopadhyay, Soeond. 
5023 ( hliaya Glic/sh. Tliird. 

5021 A mail Das, Third. 

5027 Pratuna Kar, Second. 

5032 Saint a His was. Second. 

5031 Ra*lna Chattopadhvay, Third. 

50.55 Batisari Handvonadhyay, Third. 

5030 Arati Hisxvas. First. 

5037 \ 11 usuva Hasu, Third. 

5038 Mira Hhadra, Second. 

5012 Ruhx Ray, 'Third. 

•5013 Tla, Ghoshdastidar, Third. 

5647 Doilv Das, Third. 

5050 Dipti Datta*, Third. 

5058 Santi Datta, Third. 

5660 Anita Hhattacharyya, Third. 

5001 Indrani Basuray, Third. 

5003 Man pi Talukdar, Third. 

5604 Manju Joardar, Third. 

5072 Aninin« Bhaumik, Third. 

5077 Silpi Sen, Third. 

5078 Smriti Hhaumik, Second. 

508] Chitra Ghosh, Second. 

5082 Sumitra Majumdar, Third. 

5083 Anjali Nath, Second. 

•5080 Swapna Sengupta, Third. 

•5088 liily Hasak, Third. 

5689 Jharnn Hhattacharyya, Third. 

5690 Na*mita Handyopadhyav, Second. 

5691 Phalguni Chaudhuri, Third. 

5693 lla Sengupta, Second. 

5094 Manjula Sengupta, Third. 

5095 Sunanda Sen, Second. 

5090 Sunanda Ray, Third. 

5704 Anjali Chakraharti, Second. 

5706 Jay anti Mnkhonadhyay, Second. 

5707 Arati Nandi, Third. 

5709 Krishna Rtey, Third. 

6710 Sulekha Sengupta, Second. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


pAttT 


1B1 


57 

5718 

5719 
57*' 
57*1 
57-- 
57*1 

u'JO 

uM 

57:1.5 

57:17 

5749 

57-10 

5711 

5741 

574<> 

5717 

r,7t>u 

5704 

577:1 

577* » 

5778 
5770 
5780 
58‘jO 
5«:iS 
5S57 
5H>4 
5 Mi / 


*J< >< - 
4.51 1 
.{.5 V 
.{(•(• 
if. l 
it, 1 
{(*, 
‘Mi 


No., name and division. 

City Collage. 

ROLL CAL. F. 

.Nandi ta Sanyai, Third. 

Sandfaya Raychaudliun, Second, 
purnima Ray, Third. 

Tuinnakana Ray Second. 

Oa\atri Mitra, Third. 

Si la Mitra, Third. 

Gayatri Saha, Second. 

K am ala Sen, Second. 

,l H iva Mitra, Third. 
l»urahi Mitra., Tlnrd. 

I mu Parekh, Second. 

Kiislma Uaychaudhuri, Third. 

Kumala It ay, Second. 

Mndula Sen, Third, 
jprntnua Nay, Third. 

.Jutluka Nandi, Third. 

\ 1 (luma Pal, Second. 

Lb] in Sen, Third. 

JJandana Sen, Third. 

Piiitiinu Sinha, Third. 

( bit 1 u Sen, Second. 

Chundriniu Sarkur, First. 

Miprit ikanu Jtay, Second. 

Bharat i Manliarlal Parekh, Third. 
Zohm Taherbhai Vadnagerwala, Third. 
Pralihha Shah, Second. 

Sukla Ghosh, Third. 

Krishna Ghosh, Third, 
lliiali Rut La, Second. 

N 1 lima Das. Third. 

A rat i Ghosh, Third. 

ROLL SI LI. F. 


•j Mira Maj unidar (Mrs. Sen), Third. 

Non-Coliegiate Students, City College. 
ROLL CAL. F. N. 

Jilt; 1 1 : 1 Sarkur, Third. 

2117 Kama Nnndan. Third. 


I 

4 

•5 

6 

7 

ft 

12 

t:i 

15 

16 
17 
20 
21 
26 
27 
:t(i 
•il 
■12 
:i:t 

:r, 

:it; 

H7 

:»< 

.ft 

41 

42 

44 

48 

50 

ol 

57 

r,u 

60 

62 

64 

7(1 

71 

7tt 

74 


ROLL CAL. N. 

Md Mxlul Alain Khan, r l'hird. 

I*i anahcmlranal h San.val, Third. 

Thm 1 Sukh Tnpalhi, Third. 
Nagnidrakuninr Gmnka, Third. 

Kind Iranian BhaUaohuryya, Third. 

K.n unknniar Suikai, First. 
Mailliahohamlra l)c. Third, 
k S. Swa\am Prakasam, Third. 

K Madhavau, Third. 

Contai Prabhat Kumar College. 

ROLL CONT. 

-Mi uiankasekhar Manna, Third. 
Nmiaichaian Bhunia, Second. 
8iilJiusliehaiidr;t Maiti, Second. 
PuMicndusekhni Das, First. 

Suk uriia r Ghakrahart i, First. 

Dim cndrannth Maiti, Second, 
l’niak iranjan Pradhan, Third. 

I'm nendnhikas Manda>l, First 
Anilkiimar Dag, Second. 

Alanoran |an Maiti, Second. 

4a\ Krishna .Inna Second. 

I i niiansiisekhnr Dora, Second. 

Dutipuda Misra«, Third. 

A( hmt\ akumar Jana, Third. 

1 1 rishikes Gin, Third. 

Dehahratu Panda, First. 

cinhalhihh Chakrabarti, Third. 
MirendriMiath Das, Third. 

'iiuihihari Das, Second. 

^•unhhucliaran Ghorai, Second, 
•pianhihari Dera, Second. 

1 nni r ha ran Maiti, Second. 


J nitia I end 11 Maji, First. 

* 'I'ankasekhar Misra*, Second, 
’•anapsiti Patra, Second. 
it!! 1 1 k/imar Jana, Second. 
P l0 ! ,(,r t V iath Nayak, Second. 

I.. 1 cshkiima* 1 * Misra, Second. 
•'lUuiinuth Dora, Third. 

J nikasohandra Maiti, Third, 
li t'T\ r Pradhan, Third. 

^ an da. Second. 

A!j,r;' ( handr * Ber “- Thirt. 

Pirn!! ,JarUl - ^GCOnd. 
^ameswar Dera, Third 
\ " , ;®"' ,, 'andra Oiri, Second. 
s '; V" nar M >tra, First. 

S J> chnndra Das, Second 

Aswiniw^ 1 ^ an( lal, Second. 

^ri emW ar u JPanda > Third. 

nienduprakaa Gol, Third. 


No., name and division. 

contai Prabhat Kumar Collage. 
ROLL CONT. 

7(S Suinarendranath Das, Second. 

77 Asokkumar Maiti, Second. 

78 Juyantuk uniar Gin, Third. 

79 Pusupwt 1 Tripathi, Third. 

80 Prahhatkumar Chandra, Third 
82 Jlarihar Nanda, Second. 

84 Manorutijan Acharyya, Third. 

81 PantosLikumnr Maiti, Second. 

8.5 Shan k Mochni limitary, Third. 

.Mi Mrity unjay Giri, Third. 

89 Subodhkimiar Maiti, Third. 

91 Dholanatli Maiti, First- 
9;t Dananmli Das, Second. 

94 Drihasputi Mandal, Second. 

95 indiihhuslian Misra, Third. 

9G Sukumui Miwti, Third. 

98 Parasurani Maduli, 'Hurd. 

99 Kaiiichandra Naiulagoswaini, Second. 
105 t haitanyachandia Das, Third. 

107 Sudhansusekhar Chakrabarti, Third. 

109 Amulyakuniar Gurya, Second. 

Ill Srunanlakmnur Das, Third. 

1L1 Anandadulal Das, Third. 

115 A uantakumur Das, Third. 

110 Anialkumai Maxti, Third. 

117 liunpuda Jana, 11, Third. 

121 Sasabitidu Gm. Third. 

141 DiJipkumur Maiti, Third. 

140 Pi ukaschandra liana, Third. 

111 Heram ha>kutnar Maiti, Third. 

142 Jnaneiidraiiath Paiiari, Second. 

147 Direndranath Das, Third. 

J51 Dishnupudu Panda, Third. 

154 Saralktimar Ghosh, Third. 

155 Sudhasindhu Patras Third. 

157 Kalipada Manna. Third. 

LG0 Syamliari Das, Third. 

161 Samareiidi akumar Ray, Third. 

102 Ranajitkumar Basil, Third 
10 J D i nay k uniur Giri, Third. 

165 Siiniibaraii Patra. Third. 

107 Shaikh Abdul Gani, 'Hurd. 

170 Kshudiram Samanta, Third. 

174 Dishnujiada Kar, Third. 

17 4 Anilkumar Nanda, Second. 

177 ( iosht hahihari Maiti, Third. 

178 Jhaioswar Pahari, Third. 

179 Anadinaiuhm Pradhan, Third. 

184 Amalcndu Maiti, 'Hurd. 

181 Katiojkiiniar Ra\ chaudhim. Third. 

185 Bum a pa da. Pahari, Third. 

180 Himansusekhar Pradhan, 'I’hird. 

L8S \ marcndramitli (’liandi. Second. 

191 Salxaranjan Maiti, T'h i rd. 

194 Baiendrunath Jana, Third. 

194 ( liHiniJHvkuniar Maiti. Third. 

190 Anilharan Maiti, Second. 

197 Prabirkiiniar Maiti, Third. 

198 Sudhansusekhar Giri, Third. 

199 Dhirendranath Manna. Second. 

200 Ijakshmancharari Jana. Second. 

202 Suhr«*takumai Ga>en, Third. 

205 Sujaykrishna Dar. Third. 

208 Saehinkuniar Maiti. Thud. 

212 Dyomkes Nanda. Third. 

217 Sasadhar Mandal. Third 
22 J San t os hk umar Giri. Third. 

224 Dishnupada Acharyya-, Third. 

220 Aswmikninar Acharyya, Second. 

229 Sisirk uniar Dar. Third. 

247 Arnharisli Dar. Third. 

249 Kanailal Darik, Third. 

24-1 Aptkuniar Jana, 'I’hird 
247 Dipmhiliari Pa»tra, Third. 

219 Dishnupada Das, Second. 

250 Jagadischandra Jana, Second. 

254 Sk. Ainanulla. Second. 

250 Sankarsehak Mitra, Third. 

258 Rabindranath Patra. Second. 

260 Jladhnirobinda Das, Third. 

209 Bihckananda Pattanayak, Second. 

275 Suhimalkumar Patra, MJiird. 

27(i Nikunjahihan Datla, Third. 

280 Radhasyam Das, Third. 

281 Nilkamal Nayak, Second. 

282 Sudhansusekhar Das, Second. 

285 Amalkumar Ma*iti, Second 
287 Biswaranjan Maiti, Third. 

290 Dibckananda Maiti. Second. 

291 Siddhipada Misra, Third. 

292 Pareschandra Das, Second. 

294 Manojkiimar Maiti, Tliiid. 

290 Tuhinbaran Tripathi, Second. 

297 Radhakanta Giri, Second. 

2418 Nilotpal Purkaib, Third. 

299 Dhudehkrishna Ray, Tliird. 

402 Anindasundar Ghosh, Third. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


No., name and division. 

Contai Prabhat Kumar College. 

ROLL CONT. F. 

Manasirani Sinha, Second. 

Namita Das, Second. 

Pritisri Marti, Second. 

Abharani Dmgal, Third. 

Minati Maiti, Second 
Prakriti Sasmal, Third. 

Minati Pradhan Third. 

Nilirna Jana, Second 
S .>1.1 Misra, Second. 

Siklia Das, Second. 

Dipali Hera, I’hird. 

Tnpli R’aychaudhiit i. Second. 

Abharani Manna, Third. 

Siuli Deh, Second 
Baby Nanda, Third. 

Angur Dhara, Thud 
Anjana Da smi>j Hindu r, Second. 

Mnnalini Panda, Second 
Aral! Das. Third. 

A nil radii a Sasmal, Second 

Santi Pal, Second 

Minaii Pnik, Third 

Angur Kola, Third 

Madina Sarkar, Third 

Nannta Bandyopadhyay , I lurd 

Smritdai.a Chandra, 'I’hird. 

Araiiram Maiti, Third. 


No., name and division. 

Cooch-Behar Victoria College. 

ROLL COO. F. 

Jay anti Debi, Third. 

Siuli Biswas, Third. 

Mukti Bhaduri, Third. 

Nirmalara>ni Ghosh, Third. 

Ban sari Chattopadhyay, First. 

Aruna Das, Second 
Anita Basu, Second 
Annapurna Chattopadhyay, Second. 

Si la Pal, Third. 

Sami la Sarkar, Second 
Kajal CliaLtopadhvay, Second, 

Bina Chnudlmn, Third. 

Chandnna Basil, Third. 

Kalpana Dasgupta, Second. 

Dipti Debi, Third 
Juthika Kar, Third 
Maya Kutidu, Third. 

Gautami Talnkdar, Second. 

Kanjitu Talukdar, Third. 


ROLL CAL. F. 

5802 Kajal Gangopadhyay (Mrs. Bandyopadhyay) Thi 

ROLL DIN. F. 


1 Swa*pna Guhaniyogi, Third 


Cooch-Behar Victoria College. 

ROLL COO. 

3 Bidhankumar Chakra h»rti, Second. 

4 Binayak De, Second. 

9 J'ratikranian Bandyopadhyay, First. 

I () Arunkiimar A<harv\a. Fust 

II Amulchandra Bha-dor, Second 
15 Satischandra M a Want a. Third 
17 Ramesehandra Su i kar, Third 

19 Bircndralal Saha First.. 

20 Siibratakumar Datta, Third. 

2J Dinesehandi a Adhikan, Third. 

23 Buddliadeh Bamivop.idli\ ay , I'hird. 

21 Gautam B.md\ opadh \ ay , Second. 

30 NitiSfhandra Basil. Third 

32 Nikhilkumai Bhattacha*r\ va, Third. 

33 Suliaschandra < ’hakrahari i, Third. 

35 Ajitgopal De, ’I'hird 

.38 Suhhasln a man (Julia, I'hird. 

43 Saileschandra Kar. II (Kcgn No. 7373 oi 1959-60). 

Third. 

44 Jogendranarnyan Konar, Third. 

45 Aminul link Khandker, Third 

46 Ttisharknnti Ni\o;M. Third. 

49 Asutosh Pandit Second 

52 Sailondrneliandi a l‘:n , 'I’hird 

53 Satyendrana th Ka\. -Wond. 

54 Bmavhlnislian Kant, Third. 

57 JagiKlisehandra Sarkar, Third. 

59 Prad vrdansnidsi Saikai. Third. 

60 ScKhai ktimar Sarkar, Second. 

61 Yunus Third. 

62 Asutosh Barik, Third. 

63 1*1.1 n*- lil. ;i n I i (’hatiopadhvav. Second. 

61 Syam.il (Juha*tliak u 1 1 a , Second. 

65 Privadarsi Ghosh, 'I’hird 

66 AkliilKumnr Mitra, Third. 

67 Sak Lidas Muklmpadhyax , First 

69 Nnrnyanchandrn Pal, 'I'hird 

70 Maniskiitnai Ra*\ . Second. 

71 Anntahlia Sanyal, Second. 

72 Praliladk uinar Sarkar, First. 

74 Gurudns Chaudhuri, Second. 

75 Kamlngan Prasad. Second. 

77 Asinikumar Bhamnik, Third. 

79 Pratipkiimar Majumdar, Third 
82 Bipimhandra Barman, Third. 

85 Pritliwisgobinda Biswas, Third. 

86 Karischandra Bhattacharvya*, Third. 

91 Arunkmnar Das. Third. 

93 Anilchandra DaLLa, Second 

96 Nirmalendu De, Third. 

97 Smllurkumnr De. Third. 

99 Birendramohan Goswami, Third. 

102 Md. Mazibui Ha*que, Third. 

110 Bakbalranjan Sinha, Third. 

113 Premamay Sinha, Third. 

118 Purnen du Kay , Third. 


ROLL HOW. F. 

513 Saswati Baksi, Second. 


Non-Collegiate Students, Cooch-Behar Victoria College 

ROLL COO. F. N. 

5 Sand by a Sengupta, Third. 

12 Bani Majumdar (Mrs. Sen), Third 
14 Clihabi Datta, Second. 

22 Aruna Debi, Third. 

23 Abba- Ghosh, 'I'hird. 


Darjeeling Govt. College. 
ROLL DAR. 

61 Darn her Bahadur Pradhan, Third. 

62 Suhas Dewan, Second. 

63 Rewat Kuiiiar Kalikote, Second. 

64 Satya Prakash I tin. Second. 

66 KaifA> Singh Pradlian, 'I'hird. 

68 Thalaram Chhetri, 'I’hird. 

69 Karma Wangcliu Luma. Third 

79 Madanmohan Miikhopadhvay, Second 

85 Syamapada Basu, Third. 

86 Bam Prasad Shrestha, First. 


ROLL DAR. F. 

23 Hem Lata Tamang, Tliird. 

28 Pushpa Latla Singh, ’I’hird. 

29 Nermit Silling Puzo. Second. 

Ji() Gnyatree J)evi Gurung Third. 

31 Surjiwuaya Gazamere, Second 
,‘14 Prannta Das, I’hird. 

36 Jay anti Mukhopadhyuy, Second. 

38 Swapna Ghosh, I’hird. 

39 Mala Sen, Second. 

40 Binapuni Bay, Second. 

43 Sipra Datta, Second. 

44 Bani Clink rabarti, Second. 

45 Reklia Basu, Second. 

Darjeeling St. Joseph’s College. 
ROLL DAR. 

7 Sukhamay Basu, Tliird. 

9 Subratakumar Mukbopadhyay, Second. 

10 Buddhiman Suhha, Second. 

11 Jaipratap Tamivng, Second. 

12 Krishna Kumar Sharma, Second. 

15 Dilli Bahadur Rai, Third. 

16 Ram Kumar Pradhan, Second. 

17 Man Singh Gurung, Third. 

18 Sheo Shankar Gupta, Third. 

20 George Raphael. Third. i 

21 Kalyan Kumar Thapa, Third. 

22 Janardan Prasad Aoharyya, Third. 

23 From Kumar Allay, Second. 



Paht IB] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


87 


•ji'< 

.1(1 

52 

% 

57 

10 

12 

15 
1 1 
15 
10 
17 
•IS 
•111 
'.I I 


:.l 

r>o 


No., name and division. 

Darjeeling 8t. Joseph's College 

ROLL DAR. 

Jlrmchandra Go rung, Second. 

Dhanraj Lama, Kirst. 

Kamal Tbapa, Third. 

Suk Bahadur Suhhn, Second. 

Isaac Dolip Singh, Third. 

Gabriel Rana, Third. 

Phan Kumar Pradhan, Third. 

Ilikrnni Kumar Niraula, Second. 
Vishwauibhar Lai Lakhotia, Kirst,. 
Indra Pal Kliilani, Second. 

Ualehand Agarwula, Second. 

Kedarnatli Agrawal, Second. 

Bharni Kisliore Dev Varman. Kirst. 
Vncnder Krishna, Kirst. 

Michael A. Smith, Second. 

Nlcra Shurn Slier liana. Second. 

Tojo lmlong. Third. 

Y at indra Singh, Third. 

Chandra Bhakta dosi, Kirst. 

William Kianeis Alvaros, Third. 

Son am Kyibuk, Third. 


ROLL DAR. F. 

•j Mmgimi Doina Dukpa, Third. 

U Bmila Bant., Second, 
vs ||isiic> Lhamii Atuk, Third. 

!» Agatha Bakhrin, Thiid. 
in Kina Bradhan, Third. 

11 Tara Pradhan, Third. 

12 Kllennor Mukhia, Kirst. 

15 l tin ilia Larna, Third. 

I*, \ilinui Raichoudhmy , First. 

|<> Kosamma K. B., Second. 

17 Valya Singh, Kirst. 
pi Bhagawati Moktan, Third. 

2n An pi 1 1 Kar, Second. 

.’I Clntra C -lint topadliyav , Second. 


D-J'l 

Dill 


D |S 
DIP 

I ’ll t 


• ii ; "i 

dd7 

DCS 

DDP 

d7d 

d77 

D7!» 

♦iH: i 

OM 

DS‘> 

(.‘•7 

I 

I.S'I 
DIM 
hi is 
7oi 
7oo 
707 
7lo 
7 1 *J 
71 i 
7' I 
71.% 

710 
721 

720 

721 
7:s 

740 

711 

741 
7*1* i 
"51 
752 
7 55 
757 
7 r*8 

771 

772 
H00 
m\ 


Deshbandhu College for Girls 
ROLL CAL. F. 


28555 nt 1958-59). Third. 


I (Bcgn. No. 28520 ( 1 1 1958- 


ll.tMidlia Ghoshal. 'rim'd. 

Halhalri Mitm Third. 

■Mini itra .Mitra, Third. 

(ianri Basil I (Bcgn No 
( hha \ a Chaudhnri, Third. 

I la Basil i ay, Third. 

■Midha Ray, Second. 

Sdhha Bay, Third. 

Binapani Ghosh, Third. 

.lam Ghosh, Third. 

Bijuli Samaddar, r K h 1 1 <1 . 

Kamala Bamh upndh\ a\ . 

59), Third. ‘ 

Sukla .Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

Alanin ( Omgopudhy ay . Third. 

Mahna Goswumi. Third. 

Suriila Biswas, r Tli i i*<l . 

•I llama Gop, Third. 

Bihha Das, Third. 

Bithika Dehrav, Second. 

B.mast i Biswas, Third. 

A n i ji 1 1 Tapaswi, Second. 

Xmta ( ‘hakraharti, Second. 

Alaka Gupta, Second, 
d a \ asri Misra, Tliird. 

Xpania Gupta, 'third. 

Mandira Maulik, Third. 

Ihpali Ray, || (Regn No. .‘150 29 of 1957 58), Third 
Bma Dasgupia, Third. 

Vniana Ghattopadhyay , Third. 

•Hiunt urani Gulia, Third. 

Anjana Ghosti, Second. 

Maya Basil, Third. 

Kalpana Datta, Third. 

Brntiina Mapundar, Tliird. 

KrishnaniHyi Bandyopadhvay, Third. 

^antwanat Dasgupta, Third. 
j "faht Basil, Third. 

Luti Bat. Second. 

Binapani Kole, Third. 

A n tali Bhattacharyya, Second. 

5 liarna Ghosh, Third. 

V? Ghakrabarti, Second. 

\isiku Chanda. Third. 

Mira Mallik, Second. 

Ulan Ghakrabarti, Third. 
vV uU Second. 

A ,ira Bebi, Third. 

Mit ra , Third, 
ieba Ghoshal, Third. 

J hpah Ambuli, Second. 


No., name and division. 

Deshbandhu College for Qirls 
ROLL CAL. F. 

804 -Mavn Mitra, II (Regn. No. 2788 ot 11)58-69), Third. 

805 Minati Basil, Third. 

807 Anjali Chaudhuri, Third. 

80S ALinjiisn Das, Third. 

812 May a Bhattacharyya, Second. 

SI 1 Ranjanu Suiha. Second. 

S|5 Maya Mitra, I ( Regn No. 1007 of 1958-59), Third. 
810 Bithi Palit. Second. 

825 Aiati Basil. Thud. 

S2G N aunt a Ghatak, Third. 

828 Rina Basil, Third. 

852 Baby Datta, Second. 

1958 Swapna Das, Third. 

1059 .Iliai tie Rayehaudhun , Second. 

1910 A n.i all M ajumdar, Second. 

PUS Smnitra Mukliopadhy ay. Third. 

1919 Minuti Ray, Second. 

1951 Kanmlrenu Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

1955 Tapati Smha, Second. 

N on-collegiate Students, Deshbandhu College 

ROLL CAL. F.N. 

Sagankn Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

Biitul Ghoshdastidar, Third. 

I la Basil, Thud. 

Nibedita ( 'hattopadhy ay , Thiid. 

Manika Dasgupta, Third. 

Sila Bamlyopa<lliyay , Second. 


Diamond Harbour Fakirohand College. 
ROLL DIA. 

2 Bhimcharan Maiti, Third. 

0 .) lhanknshna Haidar, Second. 

7 Madanmolian Mandal, Third. 

11 Milnikiimai Chnttopadhyay, Third. 

12 Dulah handra Haidar, Second. 

I') Reajuddin Molla, Third. 

|8 Nilkamal Bandyopadhyay , Third. 

20 Md. Sap'dul Haque Molla, Third. 

28 Dibakar Mukhopadhyay, Sc*cond. 

29 s.ikl ipi asnd Bami, Second 

5n A nukiilchamlra Bnulliau, Thud. 

51 Biilakranian Lodh, Second. 

52 Sw apaiikumat Dehsaikat. Third. 

57 Rahiudrana I Ii Bramanik. Third. 

•AO Sankarkumai Purkuit, 'rhnd. 

51 Md Molazzcl llossain Satin, Third. 

55 Blianihiiiishaii Bairn, 'Blind. 

*)0 Md. Ahdur Rahman Sarder 'Blind 
02 Bihckananda Bana, 'Bliiid, 

OI Ahlnrain Kamar, 'I’hird. 

05 Nitaiehciiid Das, Third. 

«>7 ( Mutt ai anjan llahlar. Third. 

OS Soli 1’ddin Ahmed, Second. 

09 Dchknmar ( ‘hat t opadhy ay , Third. 

70 Dipakkumai ( dial topadhyay, Second. 

71 Bholanath Mandal, Second. 

72 ( lilt t aranpin Alai, Third. 

75 Bharatcliandra Mandal. Second. 

77 Basiideb llahlar, ’Bhird 

78 Kanailal Mandal, Third. 

79 Biaiahimxl Kami, 'Bhird. 

82 Brabhatkiran Das 'Bhird. 

85 Md. Vhdul Latil Khan, Second. 

81 Dilipkiimar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

80 Alanoranian Mandal. Third. 

>8 Bi ahhan lankuina i Mamlal, 'Bhird. 

89 Rabindranath Mamlal, Second. 

92 Xhaiumohan Saphui, 'Blurd. 

95 Mahadch Mamlal, 'Blnrd. 

91 Sihapada Mamlal, 'Blind. 

95 Bauchananprasad Haldat, Second. 

90 Raymoiian Misti i. Third. 

97 IVanballahh Malik, 'Blnrd. 

98 Sannrkumar Mandal, Third. 

99 Manoraiipin ( lianlc, 'Bhird. 

101 Gainliarj Naskai, Second. 

102 Aluinibhushan Haidar, Thiid. 

10 1 Barindranath Das, Kust. 

105 (iaurchandra Das, Third. 

108 Debiprasad Bandy opadhyay, Third. 

109 Balaraui Mandal, Second. 

110 Amaremli anal h Kunji. Second. 

111 Asitkumar Arnab, Second. 

112 Nazeni All Gayen, Second. 

1 I 1 Manikehandra Haidar, Second. 

110 Acbyiitananda Naiya, Second. 

117 Kamalcs Haidar, Second. 

118 Ramendranath Mandal, Second. 

120 Rinodbibari Mayra, Third. 

121 Ajitkumar Mandal, Second. 


2082 
2( 185 
2( )80 
2t )87 
2( )S8 
2092 



88 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. MARCH 29, 1962 


[Part jj 


No., name and division. 

Diamond Harbour Fakircband College 

ROLL DIA. 

122 Mrityunjay llaldar, Second. 

124 Sukiiinur Naskai , Second. 

120 Md. A md Ali Shaikh. Third. 

127 Sachchidanundu Pin kail. Third. 

130 Bijankunint Haldai, Second. 

1*12 Aditvakumar Saha. Third. 

1114 M ahimchandru Mandal, First. 

137 Paroschandra Chniidhun, Third. 

138 Shaikh Fazlui Bahaman, Second. 

139 Mridiilkittiiai Haklar, Second. 

140 Jugadischandra Sainanta, Third. 

141 Md. Said’il I toque Molla, Second. 

142 Suhiinalkumar Maiti. Second. 

143 Sanatan Marik, Third. 

144 A jay Ghosh, Third. 

145 Sannvasicharan .Mandal. Second. 

148 Molla Giusuddiu Ahmed, Thiid. 

150 Sarnhlmnath Pal, Second. 

151 Kangalnl llaldar, Tlnr^. 

153 Prahhaschandra Nath. Third. 

155 Sarnareiidranath Mandal, Second. 

150 Sudhirchundru lie, Third. 

101 Amarprasnd Das, Second. 

102 Mihiilal Bhnttacharvya, Third. 

1(13 Sankarkmnar Kayal, Third. 

105 Durgadas llaldar. Second. 

100 Dulalchaitdra Mandal, Tliird. 

107 Sk. Md. Samsnl Alain, Thiid. 

170 Sankarlal Das, Third. 

172 Asokkumar Ray, Third. 

173 Sarojkumar Tikadar, 'Hind. 

175 Tridibeschandra Mandal, Thud. 

177 Md. Ashral Ali Lasker, Second. 

179 Sudarsanehandra Naskai, 'rinid. 

180 Mrinalkanl i Pal. Third. 

187 Jyotirinay Kayal, Third. 

190 Sribasehandra Mandal, Third. 

191 Amarendranath Barman, Third. 

193 Amareschamlra Kayal, Thud. 

194 Asamanjakninar Mandal, r Plt i > < 1 . 

197 Panchaiuin Pal, Second. 

198 Dibakm Panjn. Third. 

202 Punchanan Ghosh, Third. 

204 Hiswanntli Bhat tacharyya, Thud. 

210 Syamapada Naskar, Thiid. 

211 Brujagopal .Ihulki, Third. 

212 Sudhirkumar Das, Thiid. 

214 Nikunpihihai i Ghorai. Thud 

215 Saurendranath Sikdai, Third. 

218 Kanankanti Das, Third. 

219 Ainareschandra Mandal. Think 

220 Md Kaquh Ali Khan, Semnd. 

222 Suk u mar llav, Third. 

223 Madanniohan llaldar, Thiid. 

225 Madanchundra Mandal, 'I'h mi 
220 Subodhkumar Mandal, Third. 

228 Asitkumar Dandapat, Second. 

229 Sanatan Mandal, Second. 


ROLL DIA. F. 

1 ApaVna Das, Second 

2 Reha Ray, Third. 

4 Dwipika Desarkar, Third. 

5 Anuradha Maiti. Second. 

0 Sundhva M ukhnpadhyay. Second. 

7 Gopa t’hakraharl i. Third. 

8 Purniimi Haidar, Second. 

9 Prahhahati Chaki aharti. First. 

10 Ptirnima Purkait, Second. 

11 Hanalatn Ghosh, Thinl. 

12 Nilima Sikdar, Thinl. 

14 Snick hn Mandal, Third. 

18 Manikn Raychaudhin i. Third. 

19 Dipti Mitru. Third. 

21 Mira Mandal, Third. 

23 Mamata Bhattacharyya, Third. 

24 Jharna Mandal, Second. 

25 Sipra Dutta, Thirds 


Dlnhata College 
ROLL DIN. 

20 Md. Ahdus Sohhan, Third. 

22 Krishna Prasad Singh, Third. 

28 Haridas Sarkar, Third. 

41 Kanukrishna Goswami, Third. 

42 Binay Goswami, Second. 

49 Kshanikkumar Biswas, Third. 

53 Ajitkuuifir Bhattachgryya, Second. 


No., name and division. 

Dlnhata College 
ROLL DIN. 

55 Dilipknmar Bhatta, Third. 

•57 Pankajknmai Saha. Second. 

02 Binaykuinar Sarkar, 'I'liird. 

70 Pimiuchandra Das, Third. 

71 Kshirodcliandra Dam, First. 

71 Pratigaur Chakrabarti, Third. 

79 Gajendranath Brajabasi, Second. 

85 Sumer ('hand Jain, First. 

80 Haridas Saha, Second. 

92 Achintyakumar Biswas, Third. 

93 Aniarciidrakisur Biswas, Third. 

98 Praphuila Chakrabarti, Third. 

100 Haridas Debnath, Second. 

105 Rat hindrukumar Das, Third. 

112 Md. Kashem Uddin Meah, 'Third. 

118 Hiralal Ray, Third. 

123 Anilkumar Saha, Third. 

12-5 Day a Idas Saha, Think 

127 Gopalchandra Sinhu, Second. 

128 Mihirkiuuar Sarkar, 'I’liird. 

130 IT day Chanel Sotiiam, Second. 

132 Luxnu (’hand Bihani, Second. 

134 Sukhendukiimur Gangopadhyay, Tliird 
145 Syamapada Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

I IK Anilkumar Nag, Third. 

1.55 Snkumar Chuudhuri, Third. 

105 Utpalkanti Sarkar, Third, 

1(50 Suhndkumar Bhaumik, Third. 


ROLL DIN. F. 

2 Si nil Dasgupta, Second. 

1 Sadhana Saha. Third. 

10 Minati Datta, Third. 

I I Purinma Bhattacharyya, Second. 
17 Kaipana Debi, Third. 


Dum Dum Matijhil College 
ROLL CAL. 

1071 Dipakkumai Das. Secomk 
1078 Arunkimiar Kumlu. 'Third. 

1(580 Madhusudau Modak, Second. 

1(>81 Nirodmay Pa lit. Third. 

1082 Rashihan Pal, Second. 

1(583 Azi Zar Bahaman, Second. 

I OK I Amit kumar Ray, Second. 

1(58.5 Mridiilehamlra Sarkar, Third. 

1080 Haraprasad Sen. Third. 

1(587 Subhashchamlra Sengii[>la, First. 

1703 Samir Chattopadbyay , Third. 

1705 Sainirkumar Das, Second. 

1707 Prithw iskumar Ghosh, I'liird. 

170K Sunilkiimar Ghosh, Second. 

I7<H) Biinankanti Gulin, 'I’hird. 

1711 Asokkumar M uklmpadhyay. Second. 

17J2 Madanchandra Ray, Second. 

1711 Hcmaiitakumar Ray, Second. 

1715 Sr idam chandra Saha, Second. 

1717 Suhodh Sengupta, Third. 

1718 Samirkanti Sengupta, Third. 

1722 Subhashchamlra Acharyy asarbajna, Secomk 

1723 Syamapada Chakrabarti, Third. 

172.5 Santosh ran jan Deb, Third. 

1727 Anantakumar Haidar, Third. 

1730 Xiharknnti Uav, Second. 

1731 Dilip Sarkar. Think 

1732 Susanta Sengupta. Second. 

J740 Sankarrhandra Bhattaehnry.va, Thinl. 

1711 Sudhansukumar Biswas, Third. 

1713 Suhir Guha, 'I'liird. 

1715 Malaykumar Ray, Second. 

1719 Suhratakumar Guha, Thinl. 

1750 Birendrahijay Dasgupta, Third. 

1752 Runajitkumar (Chakrabarti, Second. 

17-53 Satyagopal Saha, Thinl. 

17-5(5 Apurhakuimir Guha, Third. 

17.57 Sibcnlal Gangopadhyay, Third. 

17(50 Dilipknmar Chakrabarti, Third. 

1701 Santoshkumar Bhadra, Second. 

1702 Mihirkiimar Sengupta, Third. 

1701 Bhupatihhushun Chuudhuri, Third. 

1 7(KJ Arddhendu l>atta, Third. 

1707 Manatosh Goswami. Second. 

1770 Ranjitkuinur Basu, Third. 

1772 Kanailal Sen, Second. 

1773 Bipul Ghosh, Third. 

1775 Susilchandra Das, Second. 

1777 Basudett Sen. First. 

9562 Mi lank anti Gupta/ Second. 


THE CAtCTTTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


89 


Part 


IB] 


No., name and division. 

Dum Dum Matljhll College 
ROLL CAL. F. 


No., name and division. 

Oum Dum Sarojinl Naitfu College for Women. 
ROLL CAL. F. 


]8D 

1^0 

|s|< 

1 S ">* ' 

N»'J 

IMrJ 

N».7 

]Hi'4 
;l>71 
i J -77 

t l‘HH. 
f |«WlS 

!HJt» 

!'»•> 

■>77> 


Dipikn Bnndyopadhyay, Third. 

( ; , 1 a lUv, Second. 

Bli.irati Mallik, Second. 

|{<mi uka Gliosli, Second. 

Dasgupta, Third. 

Iht Ink a Das, Third. 

X mall Sardar, third. 

.holloa Surkhcl, hirst, 
sunlit ra Kay, Third. 

Mi Hiula Sengupta, Third. 

Ki i -Ima M ukiiopadhvay , Third, 
sijua ihunl.vopadh.yay, Third. 
(;.,u n M ukiiopadhvay, Third. 
Mini Dattrt, Third. 

K u n ut I >at I a, M, Third. 

.hotsiia ( 'haudhuri, Second. 

|> u hi liasu. Third. 

Miinisha Sengupta, Third. 

| ndrani Gupta, Third. 

Swapna Kay, Third. 


Non-collegiate Student, Dum Dum Matljhll College 
ROLL CAL. F.N. 

•>l y.] |)ipti Datta, Third. 


ion 

H‘J 
In 5 
im, 
!»>s 
100 


IN 

v:\ 

I '2'2 
1- 1 
1 L>\ 

l:r, 

157 

I.N 

112 

IU 

r,i 

im 

n.i 
IM 
| 171 
1 1 S 
17 !) 
1W) 

M 
: 1^2 
N> 
1W7 
NO 
; »:>.>, 
ji ( d 
i 1!)7 

l!i<l 

200 

201 

»M 

2ir> 

207 

212 

213 

,214 


Dum Dum Sarojini Naidu College for Women 

ROLL CAL. F. 

I turn Das, Third. 

Miitwiuia S<'n jin pt a, Third. 

(«<i\ ;it 1 1 Kay, I (Kc^n. No. Id! ) of 1059-00), Third 

M . i n 1 n si i I Jliat tacliar\ ya , Third. 

Bna\a Sengupta, Third. 

kd.i Jlliattacliary.va, Second, 
sub, min Ray, First. 

'-..unit a Gangnpadhyny , Second. 

I*nt i Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

\,oidda Sen «»;u pt a, Second. 

Itiip.isri l)eh, Third. 

Niicdha Smha, Second, 
suuk.m Barnh opadln ay, Second. 

I*i. man (Tiamlhnn, Sirond. 

\laka llliatt acharyya (S), Fiist. 

\l»liii Gangopadh va> , Second. 

Mclusnuta Gliosli, Second. 

'Miapna Gupta, First, 
sinuitu Sen, Third, 
tiiliahi Barman, T'hird. 

Bahia Ghosh, T'hird. 

N. ibila Das, Third, 
kumkum Pal, T'hird. 
t-.imi Niuigupta, Second. 

Mu a M ukimpadliyay, Third. 

d ut ii i Uti t’hnkrabarLi, Second, 
hi i -iluia Sans a I, Third. 

Nat I liana ( ‘haudhuri, Third, 
hanak Pali!,, T'hird. 
h.ii\am Debiimjuindar, Third. 

M.mdiia Him < 1 \ opadh.vay , r,n: ** 

Gitaniali Ghosh, Third. 

I mil i a ('haudhuri. Second. 

Ikhi Suhauahis, Third, 
liulu Ray, T'hird. 

Jk‘la Chattopadhvay, Third. 

Ikiina Mitra, Third, 
iv.t i \ ;t ti i Mitra, Second. 

Samira Rush, Second. 

Amti Chakrabarti, Third. 

.’ ,lil Majuuidar, Third. 

M't.a Basil, J ( R 015,1. No. 1707 of 1959-00), Sccc 
h 1 idma Ray, Second. 

•Mora in Sanyal, Third. 

Dattai ay, T'hird. 

•Miiah Bagchi, Third. 

-Mi iuh llhattacharwa, Second 
r ? u,lll i Gbakrabartij Third. 

Milana Sengupta, Third. 

° »aa Gangopadhyay, Third. 

(Tiakrabarti, Third, 
h V' ‘^° n ^ u Pfa, Second, 
i/’ ,l ’ iif ii Mukhopadhyuy, Thiid. 

,la Mukhopadhyay, Third, 
tav. Third 


Third. 


ota Ray, Third. 

Mm* 0111 ..^“ttopadhyny. Third. 
Pilln 11 ^luidhuri, Third. 

lau,sha Chakrabarti, Third. 


217 Binita De, Third. 

21 8 Man (lira Das, Second. 

220 Krishna Band) opadh.vay , Second. 

222 Krishna Gangopadhyay, Third. 

225 Nina Sarkar, Third. 

200 Dalia Sengupta, Second. 

202 Kalyam llor, Third. 

200 Ratna Sengupta, Second. 

20 1 Kamala Sengupta, Second. 

205 Annapurna Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

207 dharna Band\ opadlo uy, First. 

2.* 18 Gopa Sen, First. 

200 Krishna Run chaudhuri, Third. 

240 Si la Maiti, Third. 

211 Arati t'hattopadhya.v, Third. 

212 Naniita t'hakraharti, T'hird. 

210 Krishna Guiigopndhyu> , Second. 

211 T'apali Ray, Third. 

240 AnasiiNa Ghosh, Third. 

217 liulrani Gupta, Third. 

218 \rchunu Guha, Third. 

210 Swagata Biswas, Second. 

2.50 Sda Basil, Secoiul. 

251 Dipali Ghosh, 11 ( Rcgn. No. 1844 of 1050-00), Third- 
250 l lua Pandit, Second. 

25!) I la Ray, First. 

200 Sibam Ghosh, T'hird. 

200 Krishna Saha, First. 

201 Sukla Dasgupia, Second. 

205 Sipra. Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

200 Maiipi Bundyopadh\ a n , Secoiul. 

20)8 A ii i nisi Sen, Third. 

272 Radharani Poddar, Fust. 

275 Apaina Batnl> opadh.vay , T'hird. 

280 Maya Mukhopadh.\ ay , Third. 

281 I la Gupta, Second. 

280 Reharam Kundu, Second. 

287 Mira Bliat Lacharv.vu, First. 

288 Dipali Das, T'hird. 

28!) Kauti < Twfckrahurti, Third. 

201 ('bandana Kar, Second. 

2!>t A junta Saha, Second. 

2!)0 S(/bba Bha ttacliaryya, T'hird. 

2!)7 Syamali (Tiakraharl i, Third. 

208 Gita Gungopmlhyu.v , T'hird. 

800 Mmati (Tial/topndhyay, Second. 

1020 Puslipa Ghosh, Third. 


ROLL BAR. F. 

41 Arati Sengupta, Third. 

45 Manju (Tiakiabarti, Second. 

ROLL KHARAG. F. 

01 Giutru Bandyopadh v ay, Second. 


Garhbeta College. 

ROLL GARH. 

5 Sachinandan Nayak, Second. 

0 t’hittaranjan BandyopiKlh vny, Third. 

7 Kainendraiiath Sengupta, Second 

8 Panchanati Masanta, Third. 

10 Siihhashchandra Biswas, Second. 

14 Syiwnapada Kar, First. 

10 S\ainsumlar Kay, Second 
20 Nepalcliand Ghosh, Third. 

22 Suntipada Naiula, Second. 

25 Syamsu ndar Goswami. Third. 

20 Nabakumar Misra. Tliird. 

‘15 Santoshkumar Sinnainahapatra, Third. 
40 Sukurnar Sarkar, Third. 

50 Sarbeswar Panda, Second. 

52 Kadharainan Sinbamabapatra, Third. 
50 MadiHiniolian Kundu, Second. 

58 Ahalakanta Mahapatra, Third. 

00 Biswarmth Ghosh, T’hird. 

01 ( 'bandubaran Pal, Third 

05 Dinahandliu Ghosh, Seioinl. 

00 BansihjKbm Pal, Third. 

72 Satyamirnyan Bun, Second. 

8.5 T’apanendranath Patra, T’hird. 

86 Nirmalendu Panda, Second. 

04 Nalinirnnuwi Smhababu, Third. 

95 Durgasankar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

90 Samares Mandat, Third. 

97 Niranjan Pal, Third. 

102 Niranjan Goswami, Third. 

100 J»gannath Datta, Third. 

106 Bhriguram Giri, Third. 



90 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


No., name and division. 

Garhbeta College. 


ROLL GARH. 


119 Gunadbar Bardhan, Second. Id*} 

122 IJeniantukuinar Kinlialmbu, First. 165 

134 Pitnmbardas Chakraburti, Third 170 

136 Sunilkumar Kolo, Third. 171 

137 Kartikcbiwidra San, Socond 172 

139 Niinaichurau Pulru, Third. 177 

142 Adliirkumar Bandyopadhyay, Second. 178 

144 Jnanranjan Cliakrabarti, Second. 180 

145 Kalipadm Niyogi, Third. 1H1 

147 Prabhakar Maliapatra, Third. 181 

148 Gitendranath lie, Second. 192 

149 Sankarprasad De, Third. 193 

151 Sitalchandra Bhiwimik, Second. 197 

152 Snkanta Bradhan, Third. 199 

158 RamnarcH ITpadhyay, Second. 202 

163 Kartikehandra Goswami, Third. 203 

167 Sanibhonath Pal. Third. 201 

168 Saiyaranjan Upadhyay, Second. 205 

169 Jugalkisor Manna, Secoiul. 

171 Harisadhan Maiti, Second. 


ROLL GARH. F. 1 

2 

1 Kamala Mukhopadhyay, Second. 5 

7 Jayasri Das, Second. 6 

8 Bela Mt»iulal, Third. 9 

12 

13 

10 

Gobardanga Hindu College. 20 


ROLL GOB. 


1 Kalikinkar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

5 Kanailul Mandal, Secimd. 

6 Gohindapada Das, Third. 

7 Asmijyoti Mandal, First. 

12 Md. Jam shed Ali Mondal, Second. 

13 Uathindranath Chattopadhyay, Third. 

24 Gunendranath lhswas, Second. 

26 Praphtillukumar Biswas, Second. 

27 Kalipada Mandal, Third. 

30 Mukulranjan Biswas, Third. 

32 Durgapada Mistri, Second. 

34 Samtnohan Hay, Third. 

37 Kainalkumar Biswas, Third. 

40 Kujalkuniar Chakraharli, Third. 

44 Bimalcndu Biswas, Second. 

47 Ratneswar Das, Socond 
52 Md. Jahangir J slant. Second. 

56 Md. Kslia Haque, Second. 

67 Md. Anisur Rahaman, First. 

68 llanpada Bagchi, Third. 

66 Phanibhushan Majuindur, Third. 

70 Narendrnnath Biswas, Third. 

73 Anilkiinuvr Mitra, Second. 

76 Suranjan Sarkar, Third 
80 Md. Abdul Halim. First. 

82 Anilkumar Mandal, 1 (Rogn. No. 367 18 of 1959-60), 

Third. 

83 Ramendranaravnii Sil, Third. 

86 Arunkumar Das, Third. 

87 (iopalkHshua Biswas, Second. 

89 Chandrasekhar Mandal, Third. 

90 KanU/shkumnr Das, Second. 

92 Praphullakumar Ghosh, lj (Rogn. No. 169 of 1958- 

59), Second, 

93 Pulakkuinar Kanjilnl, Second. 

95 Rameschamlra Mukhopadhyay, Tliird. 

96 ilanpada Dins, Second. 

102 Saclunniav Ghosh, Third. 

105 Md. Raft Kul A lam. Third. 

110 Sahab Ahmed, Second. 

114 Bholanath Sarkar, Third. 

116 Krishnadas Mandal, Second. 

119 Narondranath Biswas, Second. 

120 Santoshkumar Das, Second. 

133 Phanibhushan Bay, Third 

134 Susilkumar Bandyopndhyay. First 

135 Matioranjan Biswas, Second. 

137 Amalkanti Biswas, Third. 

340 Kshirodbilunri Biswas, Second. 

141 Adhirkumar Mandal, Third. 

142 Rakhalcliandra Sarkar, Second. 

143 Sunilkumar Mandal, P'irst 
145 Susilkumar Datta, Second. 

147 Santoshkumar BiswaR, Second. 

148 Sudhirkumar Som, First. 

160 Mihirkumar Taraphdar, Third. 

152 Abanibhushan Das, Third 

154 Syamsundar Banikchaudhurij Third. 

166 Sureschandra Maiumdar, Third. 

156 Nanigopal Gain, Second. 

167 Bidyutknmar Pal, Second. 

158 Chittaranjan Saha, Second. 

161 Baghmnath Haidar, First. 


L' i 

29 

30 

31 


3 

4 

5 


8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 
IS 

19 

20 
21 
22 
23 
26 
27 

29 

30 

31 

32 

33 

34 

35 

36 

38 

39 

40 

41 
12 
43 
41 

45 

46 

47 

48 

49 

53 

54 

55 

56 

57 

58 

59 

60 
61 
62 


[Parth 

No., name and division. 

Gobardanga Hindu College. 

ROLL GOB. 

Ranjitkumar Purohit, Second. 

Sukamal Datta, Second. 

Sasankaseklunr As, Second. 

Kabindranath Sardar, Second. 

Sunilkrishna Thakur, Third. 

Jayuutukumar Smha, Second. 

Siidhirkumar Biswas, Secoud. 

Aid. Mubarak Ali, r rhird. 

Manask innar Baidya, Third. 

Subliashkumar Das, Third. 

Pareschandra Das, Third. 

Dayalchaudra Nath, Second. 

CluLtarunjun Chaiidhuri, Third. 

Baidyanath Ghosh, Third. 

Nirmalk utnar Sarkar, Second. 

Piasaiitakumar Mitra, Third 
Sutnlchamha llajra, Third. 

Ah/kratan Mitra., First. 


ROLL GOB. F. 

Minnl/i Mnschatak, Tliird. 

Bijan Chaudhuri, Second. 

Nanula Mnjmndnr, Third. 

Saila Mujuimhw, Tliird. 

Gauri Do. Third. 

Gita Ghosh, Thud. 

Namlmi Bandyopndhyay, Second, 
Krishna Datta, First. 

A rati rani Sarkar, Second. 

Sand by a Bay, Tliird. 

Basanti Bhattacharvya, Third. 
Sobha Bal, Third. 

Mira (Miaudliiin , Third. 

Pranati Bhattacliaryva, Second. 
SiMidhya Mukhopadhyay, Second. 


Gokhale Memorial Girls’ College. 

ROLL CAL. F. 

Hans.i Kcslia \ lal Sheth, Second 
Piyiisha Daliyalai Mehta, Second. 

Maitreyi Son, Second. 

Pushpa Ghosh, Third. 

Nandita Maitra, 1 (Begit. No. 16093 </l 1959 69 
Tlurd. 

Bamhwia Sengupta, Second. 

Gay at ri Ghosh (Mrs. Mitra), Third. 

Chandra Basil, Second. 

Sant « km Basu, Third. 

Niyati Ghosh, First. 

Mriduht < liatui v edi. First. 

Sadhnna Bhausali, First. 

C. R. Indira Devi, Second. 

Sakiiia A. Khumilla, S(*cond. 

Mohmi Gurbuxani, Second. 

Durga Moll la. Second. 

Sushma Sharma, Second. 

Kamlesh Sharma, Third. 

Fslia Desai. First. 

\ eeua Bani Chaddh;>, Second. 

Saroj Bala Mehta, Second. 

Sum an Lata Gupta, Second. 

Vipla Sareen, Second. 

Preetinder Kaur, Third. 

Batnaui Mahadeviwi, third. 

Anjana Kohli. Tliird. 

Surmt-ra Misra, Second. 

Mitra Chattcvpadhyay, First-. 

Chhanda Bundynpadhyay, First. 

Beklia Datta, Second. 

Dipa Nandi, First. 

Deblina Sarkar, Second. 

Batna Sen, First. 

Clihnrida Das, Second. 

Karahi (Julia, First. 

Nupur Ray, Second. 

Alntha Gupta, Third. 

Anjali Sa»rknr, Second. 

Lila Daga, Second. 

Santi Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

Tapati Sarkar, Second. 

Aruna Sen, First. 

Sipra Basumallik, First, 

Krishna Sarkar, Second. 

Mira Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

Indrani Sil, Second. 

Nandita Gupta, First. 

Atreyi Gangopadhyay, Third. 

Manjnla Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

Subhrasri Mukhopadhyav, Second. 

Dipti Bandyopadhyay, First. 

Dipali Basu, Third. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29 , 1962 


91 




No., name and division. 

Qokhaie Memorial Girls’ Col lego, 
ROLL CAL. F. 


No., ntwno and division. 

Habra 8rl Chaitanya College. 
ROLL HAB. 


Aditi Pain, Second. 

Mr alula Karat, Second. 

Chandra Saha, First. 

Mila Mukhopadhyay Second, 
kalvani Hay, Second. 

70 Dijili Mitra, Third. 

Dintirani Biswa*, Second. 

I'!; .Maiijusri Has... 'fU.rd. 

'W s. Lalitha, First. 

'wjlO llama Mujumdar, Third. 

N audita Cliattopadhyay, Second. 

'11,4-* Mukti Mitra, Second. 

' U ill Anju Mitra, Third. 

'uO Padina Iyengar, Second. 

' {( j c SuKla Gangopadhyay, Second. 

Rat mi Joardar (Mrs. liasu), Second. 
' W ,I 7 llsha Kirnn Singh, Second. 

- 7 ^ 5 j .Maitreyi Chakraharti, Third. 

7 , 7*13 Si ilekha Sarnia, Third. 

7 „s 7 Indira Bhaumik, Second. 

Tma Sengnpta, Third. 


Habra Sri Chaitanya College. 
ROLL HAB. 

I IS ihurkanti Bhaumik, Sectmd. 

1 Ihmalondu lihatt acharyya, First. 

Vimhinda Chattopadhyay, Second. 

1 ; Misantakuinar Nath, Third. 

7 Sainai Dusgupta, Second. 

Ihshimpada Mujumdar, First. 

<) IS idhuhlmshan Gain, First. 

Id I * r nnuhkanti Ghosh, Third, 
pi Kai tikrlnwidru Cuba, First. 

II MukLipada Pathak, Second. 

J7 Narayanehandra Suknl, Third. 

Jd Sundkuinar Dalta, Second. 

JJ Muuiklul Haychandhnn, Second. 

24 Adhirkunmr ( ’ha«ki abarti. Second. 

Jo .Siiianjau Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

'> Tajmu llaychaudhun. Second. 

Jd Ktishnadas Chattopadhyay, Second. 

• id .\it \ aranjan Das, Second. 

41 iNinnalananda Sengnpta, First. 

,11 Ihrualkumar Alajumuur, Second. 

:P> A inn I vara tan Band\ opadhyay, Third. 
->(► Dipakkumar Bagchi, Second. 

■17 S.ninndi akniuar Mujumdar, Second. 

4 1 Duhdchatidra Ghosh, Second. 

4.) Ihjnxgopal liiswas, Third. 

4d ,1 aanraiijan Basil, Second. 

>d .Maimjkuinar liiswas, Second. 

>1 Snhliashchandra Datta, First. 

Sujitkumar M tikhopudhyay, Third. 

( bn ta>i an jail Biswas, Second, 
hd lhasanlakuinar Gliatak, Third. 

*d Babitrakumar Das, Third. 

,t; | Mutilal Ha \ , Second. 

la])an Jiliat taeliarvi a», Second. 
ss Vihai kant i Lodli, thud. 

*;J \mritalul Datta, Third. 

4J Siihodhkumar Bliattachar.vya, Second. 
S ; it\ anwijan Hay, Third.'* 

• + I lasantakuniar M ukhopadhyay, Seeonc 
in r dteiulranath Sntradhar, Third. 

V Jyialikanti Mallik, Second, 
r Ijarendrulal Ghosh, Third. 

' uuntriiiiolian Mitra, Third. 

^ Taiiiiialchandra Glmsh, Third, 
in Joibodhehandra Ohakrabarti, Third. 

; l «nidas Banik, Third. 

7 ? IFswaiiatli Muklu/padh vav, Second. 
Jandadulal Saha, Third 
^dkumar Das, Third. 

;*► j amt rakuuuir Chanda, Third. 

• Beha pmsad Acharyyu, Second. 

'• ^r.skuinar Saha, Third. 

Mi v d'nyswar Buudyopadhya v. First. 
i,*7 *>«maie handra Pal, Second. 

As i^^ntlrakumar Mukhopadhyav, First 
L.v .1 i, ‘ , n i ( ; ha,,dra Ciiak ra harti. Third. 

(id • Bhattacharyya, Second. 

01 ‘ HJ'lkninar Sen, Second. 

(U h'n^V nn i ( 5 a krabarti, Tliird. 

60 U a U P atta > Second. 

% \il , Sarkhel, First. 

Ici SePOnd - 

175 Tbird ‘ 

176 Third. 


178 Sailendranath Saha, r l'hird. 

179 Snsilkuniar Dehnath, Second. 

182 Tapankumur S 0111 Second. 

18A Birk umar Chakrubarti, Third, 

185 Binayblmslian Chakraham, Third. 
1 8(5 Munojkumar Basil, Second. 

188 Diiipkuinar Ghatak, Second. 

ROLL HAB. F. 

4 Mira Raha, Third. 

5 Hina Ghosh, Third. 

0 Mavarani Gangopadliyay, Second. 

7 Gita Mukhopadliyay, First. 

8 Gayatn Dam First. 

11 Miinju Chanda, Third. 

14 Purahi Haychandhnn, Second. 

15 Sandhya Sen, Second. 

10 Sandhya Haychaiidhuri, Seeond. 

17 Sima Nag, Second. 

18 Sima Dusgupta-, Second. 

B) Silmni ('hattopadhyay , Second. 

.‘il Sandhya Bavchandhun, Third. 

.‘Pi Sarrmstha Nlajumdar, Second. 

:V> Hama Basil, Third. 

41 Mmuti Hay, Third. 

47 Pntnlrani Chaudhuri, Third. 

5 A Ha tn a Sen, Third. 

54 Swagata Smilai, Third. 

(>0 BV‘kiia Sengnpta, Third. 

(>7 Mira Gupta, Third. 

08 Sohliarani Jtay, Seeonrl 
71 Smntikana Chiwnla, Seei/nd. 

8.1 Gauri Ghosh, Third. 

85 Kiln Chakraharti, 'Third. 

100 Mi nnt 1 Sarkar, Tliird. 

102 Bela Das, 'I hird. 

110 Jyotsna llandyopudhyay , Third. 

111 Mira Dasgupta, Third.* 


Hetampur Krishnachandra College. 
ROLL HETAM. 

2 Siluias Bnndyoimdhyay, 'Miird. 

A M utiirchundra Bandyopiidh vav , Tliird. 

I Biswanath ('liaudhun, Thml. 

0 SiidliiMisuknniar (’hattopadhyay, Third. 

7 Anandakumar Chakraharti, 'Fliird. 

0 Ainiyabhushan Das, Third. 

JO Tarusnnkar Datta, Third. 

11 Jaydeh Datta, Second. 

1 A Ainhnja>kslia De, Second. 

10 Harnmrayan Ghosh, 'llnrd. 

2A Jagannatli Alahata, Third. 

27 Mihirkumar Nandi, Thud. 

AO Bahindi anaravan Hayelinudliuri. Third. 
AA Sk. Fatick, Third. 

41 Golakhiliari Munda], Third. 

44 AJanik(*haiidru Barai, Tliird. 

45 Munik BandyopiKlhyny, S<‘cond. 

50 Niinaikrishna Bandyopadhvav, Third. 

55 SudliftiiMiblmshan Alisra, Third. 

5G Priyahrata M ukhopadhyay, Third. 

59 Brajagopal i’a.!, Third.* 

(>() Rabindranath Hay, Third. 

02 Dnrgadas Seth, Second. 

OA Armikumar Upadhyay, Third. 

61 Md. Was lour Haliaman, I'hird. 

(k-> Abdul Mat lib. Third. 

08 Sk. Niamat Ali, Third. 

72 Sk. Syphul Islam Mondal, Tliird. 

7A Afnnikuniar Bandv opadhyay, Third. 

74 Harakumar Chatti/pnilhyay, Third. 

77 Tndrajit Das, Second. 

78 Biswanath Arukhojmdhya>y, l^irst. 

79 Baidyanath Mandal, First. 

81 Bhairahchandra Senra, Second. 

82 Sihananda (jlaugopndhya>y^ Third. 

90 Baridharan Bandyopadhyay, 'I’lurd. 

95 Anilkuniar Mukliopadhyay, Third. 


Howrah Girls* College. 

ROLL HOW. F. 

15 Nebula Basu, Second. 

10 Bulbul Sarkar, First. 

19 11a Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

21 Amiya Deb, Second. 

23 A rati Sarkar, Second. 

24 Pratinia Haychaiidhuri, Third. 

25 Kabita Sarkar, Third, 

28 Dipali Hay, Second. 


92 


LttE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


[Part jj 


No., name ami division. 

Howrah Girls' College 

ROLL HOW. F. 

29 Dharitrirnni Patra, Second. 

MU Chhaya Chat topadhyay, Second. 

Ml Ruin Rasu, Third. 

M2 Rijali (Jliosli, Second. 

MM Hharali M ukln/padhvay, IL (Rogn. No. 10222 of 
1959-GO), Thud. 

M4 Barna .M ukhopadlivay , Second. 

Mo Anjuli 'lalukdai, Third. 

MG Annapurna .M ukhopadlivay, Third. 

37 Min.it i Dal la, 1 (Refill. No. 271)17 of 1958-59), 
Third. 

41 Arehana Biswas, Third. 

42 Rina Ghosh. Third. 

4M PutuI Sotn, Third. 

■15 knlita Pa>l, Third. 

48 Sipra Chaki aharli, First. 

5U Sundlixa Basil, Second. 

5M Rama* Das. First. 

5G riatnna M ukhopadlivay , 1 (Refill No. 28035 of 
1958-59), Th irt I 

57 Sila Bandit., Second. 

58 SnmtiUnnni (Mull lopadhyav, Third. 

59 Tapati Rand vopadhyay , Third. 

GO Parbati I'ramamk, Second. 

G1 Kalpana Uundxopndhyay, 'Ihird. 

GM .Ihiirna Chmidlum, 'Third 

G8 (Jiia ( ’hat I opadhyay, ill (Refill. No. 278GG of 195.3- 
59), Second. 

G9 Chandra Dan, Second. 

70 Rithika Chakrnharti, Third. 

77 Arat.i Rasu, Third. 

78 A rati Kundu. Tliud. 

79 A rati Clink raha»rt i , Second. 

80 Aloka De. 'Third 

81 Minati K’ay , I (Refill. No 28088 ot 1958-59), Second 
8M Minati Chat topadhvnv. Third. 

81 Mma De, 'Third. 

85 (Ota M nkhopadhyny, Third. 

9M Krishna. Sinfui, Second. 

9G 'Trip! i Adhya. Third. 

97 'I'm i dm Das, Third. 

98 Sri la Sarkar, 'Hurd. 

100 Sohha Gnngopndhvnv, 'Third. 

102 Siklia Ghosh, First. 

105 Sandhya (Unit lopadhvay, 'Third. 

10G Saint a Datta, 1 (Refin. No. 27929 of 1958-591, 
Second. 

I1M Rama* Ray, Second. 

118 Nilirna, Kar, 'Third. 

121 Mira Ravchaiidhui i, II (Refill. No. 28095 i/f 1958- 

59), Third 

122 Nandi I a Ray. Third. 

12M Nelly Mitrn. Third. 

121 Diirfia Do. Third. 

12G Buhl Arnnb, Third. 

127 Kalpana Majumdar, Second. 

128 dharns> Ghosh, Second. 

1M4 Rithika Rasu, Second. 

1M7 Arati Rasu, Thinl. 

110 Minati Chattopjwlhvav 1 (Mrs, Al ukliopadliva\ ) , 
(Refill. No. M9M27 of 1958-59), Third. 

115 Kahita Mandal, Third. 

15M Khukurani Das, 'Third. 

158 Sat 1 ! Maitra. Third. 

159 Reha R'av, Third. 

1GG Minati Ray. If (Rofin. No 191M2 of 1950 57), Third. 
1G9 Jharna Borlhak, Third. 

172 Mridula M ukhopswlhyav, Third. 

17M Smritirekha Maitra, Third. 

177 Rela Mukhopadhvav , Third. 

179 Javanti Dntta, 'Third. 

181 (Jauri Dasfiiipta. Second 

184 Aloka Gaiigopadhvny, Third. 

185 Jyotikana Pal. Second. 

192 Ratna Sen. Second. 

19M Mira Lahiri. Thud. 

191 .Tvot snn Rliattacharvyn, Third. 

197 Anjuli Mukhopudhx n y. 1 (Refill. No. 19M90 of 195G- 
57), Third. 

200 Ranalatn Rhnttachai x vn. Third. 

202 Ohhnnda Glioshal, Third. 

201 Radharani (Jatifiopadhyny, 'Third. 

209 Scphali Ray, Third. 

212 Purniina Ray. Third. 

215 Satirnni llatuh opadhvn v. Third. 

222 Kanmla Ghosh, Third. 

22M Madhabi Pandit. Third. 

225 Minati Mukhopadhvav, Third. 

228 Aniiua Mitra, Third.' 

229 Anjnli Mitra, Second. 

2M4 Alakananda Gnngopadhvay , Third. 

2M7 Pratima Mukh opadhyay, IV (Regn. No. 33142 of 
1958-59). Third. 

239 Ruma Basu, Third. 

&41 Santa Bhattacharyya, Third. 


No., name mid division. 

Howrah Girls' Collage 
ROLL HOW. F. 

211 Rela Pntra (Mrs. Maji), 'Third. 

218 Rhint Raychamlhuri, Third. 

219 Dollan Rundyopadhyay, Third. 

252 Manjulika Ghosh, Third. 

251 MndiiJn Gupta, Third. 

25G (Jit a Biswas, 'Third. 

2G1 M anjuli Ray, 'Third. 

2GI Kiishnu Ray, 'Third. 

2G8 Kamala Rasu, 'Hurd. 

270 Arati Das, Thinl. 

279 Sr i 1st 1 a Mukhopadhyuy, Third. 

281 Kukl.i Rasu, Third, 

284 Suhhn De, Third. 

280 Si la Ghosh, 'Third. 

288 Sxamnli M ukhopadlivay. Second. 

290 Saraswati Rasumallik, Think 

291 Scphali M nkhopadhyny, Second. 

292 Saluta M ukhopadlivay, 'Tliiid. 

29G Rckha Nag, 'Third. 

299 Piatima Mukhopadhvav, III (Rogn. No. lt/Mn 
1959-GO), Third. 

M0] Pratima Karak, 'Third. 

M02 Rratnna Maitra, 'Thud. ( 

MHS Rmaparu Bandx opadhvav, Tliml. 

M1M Rela De, 'I'iunk 

.315 Raiiam Rasu, I (Refill. No. 2779G of 1958-55] 
Third. 

MIG Ram Randvopadhvay, I (Regn, No. 277GO ol l«»5s 
59), Third. 

MI9 Ram Mitra, 'Third. 

M20 Randivriii Datta, Third. 

M2 1 Randana kahiri, 'Third. 

M22 Arat.i M ukhopadlivay. Third. 

M25 Aparua Rhat taehnryx a (Mis. Ray), Third. 

M2G Aparua Datta. 'Third, 

.328 Arpana Das, Setoud. 

M29 Ainiya Miikhnpndhyiiy 'Third, 

MM 1 Mira Ghosh (Airs (Julia), Second, 

M1M Ritluka (Jatifiopadhyax , Second. 

MIG Arati Nandi, 'Hurd, 

.351 Sohhana Randvopadhvay, I (Refin. No 1'iMld ol 
1958-59), Third. 

MG I Jharna M ukhopadlivay , Second. 

MG2 .lax anti M uklmpadhx ay , 'Third. 

MGI Imlua M ukhopadhvax , 'Third 
MG7 I la Das. Third. 

Mi 18 I >i | >1 i Risi, Third. 

2.70 (Jayalri Raiidyopadliyny, 1 (Rcfin. No. 27701 ni T>X- 
59), Second. 

M71 (Jaxatn Mitra, I (Refin. No. M9M29 ol 
Third. 

M7 1 Chha.xa (Jhosli, Third. 

M75 Chliahi Bandx opadhyay, Second. 

M79 Rharati Rhat tacliarva , Second. 

Ms 2 Arati (Jliosli, 11 (Refill. No. 27952 of 1958-59), Thml 
M8M Asima (Julia, Second. 

M8(> R'unu Bandyopadhva x , 'Third. 

MS 7 Krishna Sen, Second. 

MSS Durfia Rhola, Third 
390 Mnnpisii Sarkar, Third. 

M91 .lava Adhxa, 'Hiird. 

M92 dliumka Dnsgupta, Third. 

M9M Dill-fin Datta, Second. 

M9.5 Rina Chattopadhyav, Tliird. 

M9G Chhandasri Sarnia, Second. 

M97 Aparua (Jhosli, 'Hurd. 

.“>99 Kalyani Samaddar, Third. 

40M Randana (Jhosli, Second. 

401 Smnaiia (Juba, Second. 

105 Manpisri Songupta, Second. 

4(H> Rcharani Saha, Second. 

407 Smliaiita Pal, Second. „ , 

408 Aparua M nkhopadhyny, T (Regn. No. 2S)k> 0 

195)8-59) . First. 

410 A si nia Mitrn, 'Third. 

41.3 Rela Das, Third. 

411 Rina M ukhopadlivay. Second. 

4 15 Rina Dasfiiipta, 'Third. 

41G Purnhi Sarkar, Tliird. 

419 Cliitra Rasu, Second. 

421 Gauri Ray, Second. 

422 .layati Niyofii, Second. 

423 Kalyani Rasu, Third. 

42G Ch ha hi rani Chakrnharti, Third. 

428 keen a Basil, First. ... c 10 '^ 

429 Gita Baridyo|)adhya.v, II (Regn. No. 277G5 o. l - ,,L 

59), Second. 

4.3M Manjnri Mukhopa<lhyay, Second. 

4M1 Mukul Bhaumik, 'Third. 

455 Aparna Pal, Second. 

4MG Sahita Gangopadhyay, Third. 

4M7 Scphali Ghosh, Third. 

445 Bakul Jana, Second. rr . ;r/ i 

440 Aparna Das (Ilegn. No. 27885 of 1958-59), Tbiw- 
447 Sucharita Bhaduri, Second. 

449 Annapurna Datta, Second. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


93 




IB] 


t>! 

f>4 

|H> 

It >7 

in 1 ' 

i:»> 

rj 

i; i 

I7U 


No., name and division. 

Howrah Girls' College. 

ROLL HOW. F» 

Hina Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

( ioctali Mundle, Third. 

Iw.tsna l)o, Second. 

Push pa rani Pa mi. First. 

| il.a Basil, Third. 

L, j,| % ti Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

|i;,- alii Basil, Second. 

Al.-m pi Laliiri, Third. 

K.imala Pal, il (Kej.ni. No. 28061 of 1658 50), First. 
Dipnli Majtnndar, Second. 

<,,l,lua Taraphdar, Second. 

, ,. Iil i l) „ia Mit.ii, 11 (Kogn. No. 28011 of 1958-50), 

Sc< olid. 

Sda Chakrabnrt i. Second. 

( ’hal topadhyay, First, 
hvkha Chat topndhyav, Third. 

W.wn B;md\ opadh.N av , Third. 

tuna la Pal, Third. 

I )< 1 1 ! \ Dasgnptn, Second. 

Ajuina Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
snl. klui Smlia, Second. 
snn,m<la Smlia, r Fli n<l. 

Lil\ Basil, Third 
Cn.lhiili Sinha, Third, 
pi . 1 1 1 1 n a I Iliad uri , hirst. 

11,-1 N.iskai, Secontl. 

K i!p ina M ukhopadhy ay, Thinl. 

| >, Ink. i \dhikari, Second. 

s, |, mi llhal laeliary \ a, 1 (Kegn. No. 27880 of 10.58 
,V*i Second. 

\,an Ka 1 , Third, 
s, i kiint.il a Dasgupta. Second. 

1*, iimu Ghosh, Third. 

\n tali M ukhopadhy ay , II (Kegn. No. 28018 of 10.58- 
V.n Third. 

M . auk. i Bandy o]>adh\ ay, Tliiid. 


t'i- 

fM 

IK. 

111 IS 

;n i 
f. l 
:ts 

Pji 

ll'l 

[>.i- 

Vjs 
li!<» 
111 
\\: 
in i 

m 

Hi 

Jls 

K;-_> 

I'-i 

|f,i 

I*.; 

I7it 

171 

17- 

I7'» 

*‘i 

h 

K\ 

M 

Si, 

IK 

!*. 

! li- 
ft 
LM 
27 
3», 
37 
Sfi 
If; 

51 

52 
>7 
ift 

Jo 


Howrah Narasinha Dutt College 

ROLL HOW. 

I >. i moda i ( Miakrahart i, Second. 

Is mI.i i nat li Ghosh, Second. 

Dilijikmnar Saikar, First. 

1‘ia-aiitakmnar M ukhopadhyay, Second. 
IMiak 1 1 I 1 I 1 nshai) Chukrahnrti, Third. 

It . hi pi kninnr JM ukhopadhy ay , Second, 
^mni t'lnli anath Kundu. Second. 
Nnipknmar Chattopadhyay, Third, 
's.inkai prasad Sarkai, Second. 

Oia lilt it kuma r Baidya. Third. 
Nini.iicliandra JVJudi, Third. 

8ulialf liandra Seth, Second, 
s.uutkumni ‘Kundu, Second. 

I «.t irl \ mutt h Khamaru, Second. 

Mtthammed Stiiatidditi, Secoml. 

"Nlolut iiitihnn ( Chattopadhyay, Second, 
'siilmdlifliaridr a Smlia, Second, 
hunnlal Bandvopadhvay , Secoml. 

\Ii tinlkani i Dalui, Tliird. 

K ini.ilkiiniar Mitra. Third. 

Mull mnar Hapa, Third. 

( liamli math Gnngopadhyay , Second. 
Haiaillain Dhara, Third. 

^•uiiiiankuniai M ukhopadhyay , Third. 

’ "i hi Kumar Chakrabarti, Second. 


>u 'aiulrunath Pal, Third. 

1 * ' ! » 1 ii inn i Mai, First. 

^1‘kimi.n Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

U H ( 'hakraharti, Second. 

"-ant .ikiimar Sarkai, Second. 

D«s, Tliird. 

■u\ ankuniar Bhattaeharyya, Second, 
"'••lani.m Kandvopadhvay, Second, 
^■'"‘dhan Manna, Second.' 
k •»! Hpkiimar Bandvopadhvav, Second. 
>« l-.rdipti Wadadar, Third. 

. 1 ''Mnkuinar Gnswami, Second, 
‘•''-nnhandra Sarkar, Third, 
y^'kinuar Sarkhcl, Third. 

, 1 ' l,| l , k innar Ghosh al, Third. 


•'M ni ! i k' u 11 1 a 1 JKhatlaoha r v y a , 
ihlhnir] r 


Third. 

Third. 


miar Dasgupta, Third. 

Sun , 1 1 " J,nat ! ^ukhopadhyay, 

" Third. 

T. n ,L k:,r Dalta . Second. 

Co n n Vh”q r - Sinh - a > ^°J ld * 

Sarm.i h Snmani, Third. 

■"arinil" m! ' r Ma H*k, Third. 
Nira?' k f ," niar Mandal, Third. 

Arm!. da Pramanik, Third. 

City 1 l l * '*• TfcW. 

IHr Bandyopadhyay, Third. 


No., name and division. 

Howrah Narasinha Dutt college 
ROLL HOW. 

464 Tulsidas Chattopadhyay, Third. 

467 Kusuf Ali Midday, Third. 

468 Biswanath Mandal, Second. 

469 Mahabub Rahanian Molla, Third. 

472 Gaiitam Mukhopmlhyay, Third. 

488 Chittaranjan Chakraburti, Second. 

480 Batiianjun Sinha, Second. 

1!K) elaydcl) Bhaltaehurvya, Second. 

462 Prnudhnn Bandyopadhyay, First. 

168 Biswanath Bel a, Second. 

401 Aiiinkinnar Scngupta, Second. 

46(» .la\dch Bandvopadli \ ay , First. 

501 Narav.mehamli a Dalta, Third. 

7»05 Sa hi 1 1 kuma r Datta, Third. 

507 Sanihhunat h Dhara, Third. 

511 Kamalapati Chattopadhyay, Third. 

512 (Johmdaiiarayan Chakrabarti, Second. 
518 Nisithkumai Ghosh. Siaamd. 

511 Amivaprasml Chakrabarti, Second. 

516 Asishkusnm Chattopadhyay, f I4ord. 

517 Bharat kuniar Ku\, 'I’lnrd. 

518 Bidy ill bat an ( Mia 1 1 opnd h\ ay , Third. 

7)20 Kdasehandra Bliat tachar>ya, Thinl. 

7)21 S.imaicndi auat h Bhal I achai \ya, Third. 
522 Kaiiailal Bank, Second. 

521 Kakhahaii Samadd.n. Srrond. 

7)27 I'aritiudcliandi a Dt*. Third. 

.580 Nikhiles Dalta. Second. 

7»88 Siindaipopji.1 ( Mi.iki ahart i, l im’d. 

.580 Amivakmuar Mitra. Third. 

7>87 Mihiikmnar Kundu, Second. 

7)86 Sihnaravan Das, 'Flu id. 

542 Bmaykiiniar Samanta, Tliird. 

518 .1 \ ot iprasad M uk liopadh.N ay, Third. 

7)14 Mnnalkanti Mandal, Third. 

516 Bandharan Glioshal, Thinl. 

517 Nahukumai Dalui, Thinl. 

518 Kcd;ii nutli Ghosh, Third. 

516 Nilmaiii Ghosh. r l Ti i i*« 1 . 

.V)2 Biswanath M ukhopadhyay. Third. 

55| Sisitkiunar Chat t opadln av. Third. 

55< ; Samlihiichandi a De, Thud. 

•57)7 Pasupati Nag, Second. 

.5.58 Kesahchandra Santra, Second. 

556 N ilia tan Bliat t ncharyya. 'I’hird. 

.561 Bilascliandia M ukhopa<lh> a,> , Thinl. 

•568 Baidxanaih Das. Thinl. 

7>61 A |a.\ kuma r Ghosh, Second. 

.56.5 Kasmath (Biosh, r rhird. 

7)66 Ktihhnshchnndrn Adak, r l'hird. 

568 Mungohimla Das, Third. 

56)6 Anilkumar Sant,ra, Third. 

570 A lulus Salam Jiaskar, Tliird. 

571 Prabodhehandra Misra, Second. 

7)75 Samirkiimar < ’hat 1 opadhyay, Second. 

576 Madhusmlan Biswas, Third. 

577 SiKirkuinar Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

578 Aptkuniar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

588 Chandicharan ]*al. Third. 

586 Gopalchandra Das, Third. 

560 Lakshmikanta Kar, Second. 

561 Svainalkumar Sen ray. Second. 

565 Nitisnarayan Biswas, Third. 

6t)H Maniklal Chandra, r Fl 1 1 rd . 

611 Barendrachandra Sen, Second. 

612 dagneswar Chakrabarti, Third. 

618 Prasanfakumar Maji, Third. 

ROLL HOW. F. 

2 Pushpa Majumdar, Third. 

4 Gita Bandyopadhyay, First. 


Hughll Mohsfn College 
ROLL HUG. 

1 Mrinalkanti Mandal, Third. 

2 Pankajkanti Chattopadhyay. Third. 

8 Chira ran jau Gungopadhva v, Second. 

4 Sukdeb Bhattacharyya, r J'hird. 

5 Manindranath Chakrabarti. Second. 

6 Sunilkanta Chakrabarti, First. 

7 Kartikchandta Mukhopadhvay, Second. 

8 Basantakmnar Das, First. 

0 Debaprasad Datta, First. 

10 Gunidas Chakrabarti, Second. 

12 Susnntnkumar Chakrabarti, Second. 

15 Sunilkumar Chattopadhvay, Second. 

18 Dilipkuniar Nath, Third. 

20 Si sirk innar Dobniandal, Second. 

28 DipaklAl Saha, Third. 

27 Maliammad Amir Hosen, Second. 

28 Ma hi tosh Datta, Second. 


94 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


fl*ART n 


No., name and division. 

Hughll Mohtln College 
ROLL HUG. 


No., name and division. 

Hughll Women*! College. 
ROLL HUO. F. 


29 Diljan Ali, Second. 

HO Tarapada Goswanii, Third. 

33 Subodhkuniar Sarkar, Third. 

34 Swapankumar Dasgupta, Second. 

35 Sankurnath Ghosh, Second. 

36 Agnibarna lihaduri, Second. 

;18 Subhushranjan Sen, Second. 

40 Asishkmnar Mukhopa<Ih.va.v, Second. 

41 Brasantahumar Bhattacharyya, First. 

42 .layaniakumar (-hakraharti, Second. 

46 Asitiikntnar Biswas, Second. 

17 Kasinath Biswas, Second. 

49 Haradban Datta, Second. 

7)0 Mriimlkanti Ghosh, Third. 

51 Bimalananda (Juba, Second. 

52 Alokkumar Datta, Third. 

AH Svamalchandra Ray, Second. 

57 Ni man-hand Pal, Second. 

00 Arabinda Ghosh, Third. 

62 Boghunath Bhar, Second. 

63 Nisithkumar Saha, Secoml. 

64 Dcbabrata Bhar, Third. 

(X> Sailcndranath Ghosh, Third. 

67 Ajitkunmr De (Cn), Second. 

(58 Balaram Bhattacharyya, Third. 

70 A.sitkumar Si, Third. 

7H Na i cschamlra Ghosh, Third. 

74 Syarusundar Datta, Hurd 

75 Pianaxkanti Majunidar, Hurd. 

76 Sudbansukuinar iMaliik, Second. 

78 Sudiiansukiiniar Sd, Second. 

82 Ranaiilkiimai Gungnp.idln ay , Second. 
8H Asilkmnar IMaliik, Third. 

8 I Nilugopal ( 'hakraharti , 'l'hird. 

85 I iafi/.uddin Mandal, Third. 

80 Sa limit rasankar Dasgupta, Third. 

*7 1 1 imansuktimar Datta, Second. 

88 Sckhai kuniat Sadhu, Second. 

89 Nitaichand Datta, Second. 

90 Sk. Ansar Ali Mondal, Third. 

92 Ranajit kumar Ghosh, Third 
9H Pmaprasad Majunidar, Third. 

94 Bra.suuf akmnar Mukhopadhyay , Second. 

95 Badanku'iiar Bamlyopadliyav , Third. 

90 Pamnalki ishna Datta, Second. 

97 Pa hit raranian Saniaplar, First. 

98 Mohammad Israil, Second. 

99 Amir Hussain, Second. 

100 Dincskmnar Das, Second. 

102 Somnath Sniha, Second. 

ROLL MID. 

1H9 Susuntahhushan Bhattacharyya, First. 

ROLL HUG. F. 

2 Asoka Adhya, Third. 

8 Pun i pa Das, Third. 

Hughll Women’s College 

ROLL HUG. F. 

1 Gauri Sen, Second. 

11 Rita Sinha, Second. 

>2 Sumita Mitra, Second. 

1H Tripti Bandvopadhyay, Second. 

15 Purabi Pal, Second. 

17 Rekha Sil, Third. 

18 Indira Som, First. 

19 Jharna Das, Second. 

20 Gita Raychaudhuri, Second. 

21 Mamata Bandvopadhyay, First. 

22 Gita Ghosh, First. 

23 Lila Ray, Second. 

24 Tapati Saha, Second. 

26 Minati Basu, Third. 

27 Kana Mitra, Second. 

28 Jn.vati Ohaudhuri, Third. 

29 Tusliarkana Datta, Third. 

HO Snlila Datta. Second. 

HI Suchitra Ohakrabarti, Second. 

H2 Chnmeli M ukhopadhyay, Second. 

HH Na ml ini Band.vopadhyay, Third. 

.'k> Bithika Sinha, Second. 

37 Pranati Goswanii, First. 

38 Madhabika Dasgupta, Second. 

39 Sumita Biswas, First. 

40 Sadhana Goswami, Third. 

43 Ila Mandal, Third. 

44 Manika Sengupta, Third. 

46 Subhra Bhattacharyya, Third. 

49 Manju Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

60 Rina Bhaduri, Third. 

61 Pranati Ray, Third. 

65 Nan.ita Datta. Second. 

66 Mira Kus&ri, Third. 


67 Manika Ghosh, Third. 

68 Dipali Bhattacharyya, Second. 

69 Nilima Nandi, Third. 

71 Ahha Das, Third. 

7H Lina Sengupta, Third. 

74 Mira Sarkar, Second. 

75 Sucheta Bmidvopiidhyay, Second. 

79 Kanika Sarkar, Third. 

80 Nila Nag, Second. 

81 Nibedita Bay, First. 

82 Kalpana Mitra, Second. 

83 Tunu Bhattacharyya, First. 

84 Mira Biswas, Second. 

85 Ira Bhar, First. 

86 Archana Chattopadhyay, Second. 

87 Khana Ghosh, Second, 

88 Kalyanirani Mitra, Third. 

89 Sipra Bandvopadhyay, Second. 

90 Oayatri Ohnmlhuri, Third. 

92 Java Dasgupta, Third. 

93 Ila Mallik. Second. 

94 Miiva Ghosh, Third. 

97 Pratibha Mallik, Third. 

98 Anjali Ohaudhuri, Second. 

99 Manimala Ohaudhuri, Third. 

100 Manika Modak, Second. 

101 Bijali Majumdar. Second. 

102 Batik a Nandi, Second. 

JOH Anjali Poddar, Third. 

101 Oh hava Bay. Third. 

105 Annapurna Ghosh, Second. 

106 Alpana Mitra, Second. 

107 A rati Pal, Third. 

108 Cliitrn Scngupta, Second. 


Itaohuna Bljay Narayan Mahavldyalaya 
ROLL ITA. 

2 Gnpalchnmlra Modak. Third. 

3 Sukumar Kumar. Third. 

4 1 larittiohan Das, Third. 

6 (Johinda Batahval, Second. 

11 Nisithkumar Bainlyopadhyav. Third. 

12 Suryvanaraynn Chattopadhyay, Second. 

1 I Satyahrata Bandvopadhyay. Third. 

15 Sadnnanda Chattopadhyay, Second. 

16 Madanmohan Kumar, Third. 

18 Kn/.i Moinul Hofjue, 'third. 

21 Subnlchnndra Kole, Third. 

23 Siddheswar Ghosh, Second. 

24 Jagahandhu Ghosh, Second. 

26 Jugalkisor Raychaudhuri, Second. 

28 Amiyakumar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

HI Abhavpada De, Third. 

32 Abdui Jalil Mamlal, Second. 

33 Ramian Ali Mallick, Third. 

35 Murnrimohnn Chattopadhyay, Second. 

37 Dehendranath Chattopadhyay, Tliird. 

39 Md. Abbas Ali, Third. 

42 Kali pra sad Nandi, Third. 

45 Javdebkuniar Guin, Second. 

47 Sankarkumar Dattarny, Second. 

48 Sk. Abdut Rahman, Second. 

51 Adityacharan Datta, Third. 

52 Prasnntakmnar Sengupta, Third. 

53 Asokkunmr Gangopadhyav, Third. 

55 Nirmalchandra Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

58 Md. Nurul Islam, Second. 

59 Sk. Md. Solaiman Molla, Second. 

60 Brajendranath Bera, Third. 

61 Durgapada Ray, Second. 

62 ITjalkuniar Sarkar, Third. 

65 Ekkari Pal, Third. 

69 Fdaysankar Pal, Third. . _ n£ . f intfUJOt 

71 Gopalchandra Ghosh, I (Regn. No. 246-4 o 
Second. _ . , 

76 Krishnachandra Chattopadhyay, Third. 

80 Dilipkurnnr Ghosh, Third. 

83 Gaurmohan Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

84 Kenaram Sarkar, Second. 

86 Madanmohan Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

87 Shair Abdullah, Third. 

89 Trilokbihari Samanta, Third. 

93 Nepalchandra Sinharay, Second. , 

94 Ranendranath Bhattacharyya, Third. 

96 Syamapada Chattopadhyay, Second. 

98 Dipakkumar Bhattacharyya, Second. 

100 Manindranath Ghosh, Second. 

101 Harendranath Lanka, Second. 

102 Sukumar Mukhopadhyay, First. 

103 Anilkumar Pal, Second. 

104 Sailendranath Mandal, First. 

105 Nepalchandra Ghosh, Second. 

106 Kartikohfcndra Pal, Second. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


95 


Pakt 


TB] 


No., name and division. 

Itaohuna Bijay Narayan Mahavidyalaya. 
ROLL ITA. 


107 

1U W 

III!) 

11<I 
111 
1 18 
111 
115 
lib 
117 
II!* 
l'JO 
121 
1 22 
125 
1-7 
l'. N 

ni 

i:r> 

l.K> 

1-17 


Thittaranjan Kargupta, hirst, 
saroikumar Palit, Second. 
NTrmalehandra Mukhopadhyuy, Third. 
|{al liindra Bhattachiirvya, First. 
Tiinlkumar Ghosh, Third. 
Hariharprasad De, Third. 

Niktipadu Dhale Second 
(kinganarayan Manual, I bird. 
Siiih'Mhandra Das, First, 
(ianganarayan Uakshit, Second. 
Satvakinkar Kumar, First. 
Kamakhvaprasad Chaudhuri, Second. 
Nnnaikumar CTinttopadhyay . Third. 
Malmdeh Das, First. 

.laharlal Ghosh, Third. 

\ptkmnar Haidar, Third. 
Svamaprnsnd Chakraharti, Second, 
llamnarayan Ghosh, Third. 

Sihcha ran Ghosh, Third. 

(Jopalchandra Ghosh, Second. 

Sam n an Bandyopadhyay, Second. 


0 

l‘J 

Ih 

Hi 

•JD 

*21 

.10 

.11 

.17 

in 

II 

17 


71 

T'i 

•'O 

K> 

si 

8.5 

S7 

X!> 
!><> 
!)7 
!)!> 
1(H) 
1IT) 
112 
nr, 
117 
12 5 
I'lfK 

l:il 
1 42 
1.17 
ills 
140 
1-M 
152 
15H 
157 
150 
hil 

ir,i 

'(it 

1H5 

VC 
ir,s 
17.1 
1 7f> 
177 
IWi 
1S4 


jalpaiguri Ananda Chandra College 
ROLL JAL. 

Pradyot kuinar Bhattacharyya. T'hird. 

Mahnhir Dal Agarwalla, First. 

SiOcmluprasad Bagchi, Third. 

NitiscMidu M tikhopadhyny, Third. 

Ihittaranjan Pal, Second. 

\sitkwmar Chakraharti, Second. 

Ihna vknshna Biswas. Third. 

\sokkiimar Kay, Third. 

Muiat iiuoliati Saha, Second. 

Sihaprasad Majumdar, Third. 

Dipak Dasgupta, Third. 

Dipt is Rn\, T'hird. 

Kamalcndu Mukhopadhyny, T’hird. 
lliknschandra Ghosh, Second. 

Asokknmar Basil, II (Regn. No. 17880 oi 10o0(»0), 
Second. 

Ninnalkuinar Ghosh, T'hird. 

\ markumar J)c, T'hird. 

Ihiavnnrayan Chakraharti, T'hird. 

Itaniaiikumar Basil, Third. 

Kanaiitkiiniar T’araphdar, T'hird. 
kanendranat h Mit ramajunidar, Third. 

Simicsi handra Chakraharti. Second. 

Pi.muh Bandyopadhyay. Third. 

I*i anahknmar Biswas, Third. 

Matiask iitnar Ban<l.\ opadhvay, Second. 

SiidhiK handra Ghosh, Third. 

Dihpkuniar Das, Second, 
sjuiuirondranat h Datta. Third. 

Dipakkuinar Biswas, Third. 

Pi ahhntchandra Bhatimik, Secc/nd. 

Kahindranath Sarka*r, Third. 

Prnblmschandrji Basil. Sc»oond. 

Aumkumnr Knndn, Third. 

Am i tosh Ray, T’hird. 

Sank a rial Agarwnbi. Third. 

^h\ a m Suuda»r Kinghi, Second. 

Snptk.itnar Nandi, Second. 

Hatneswar Biswas, Third. 

Ihmanknmar Mitra, Second. 

Kn ancliandra Chakraharti, Third. 

Jhinalkiimar Sen. Third. 

IJaliHchandra Datta, Second. 

Svamal Chakraharti, Third. 

Anal ha ran Chaudhuri, Second. 

mpkuniar Sinharay, Third. 

^ainalknmar Chakraharti, Second. 

•h-akurdns Basak, Third. 

Kamalkrishna Sen, Second, 
endranath Karmakar, Third. 


Na 


!V ,M mia may Ray, Second. 

i igankasekhar Bhadra, Second. 
Sniondrakuniar Sarkar, Third, 
jjninehandra Mukhopadhyav, Second, 
anehal Bandyopadhv»v, Third. 
H'^kimiar Ghosh, Tfiird. 


4 lil V 01 ""own, i nira. 
l«o Mitra, Third, 

in* J? hu Pcndranath Das, Second. 
ls 7 */*$*?*** Saha, Third. 

1*8 v[L‘ V fa r Ali, Third. 

1% Arimir kuma ' r Bakaigupta, Second. 
197 RaJP 4 - Um ? r **bosh, Second. 

Agarwala, Second. 
kan^r kui ^ Ar Bhattachc.ryya, 

Hen! ai J] an Second. 

201 Hr?I"r dhrtb P? 1 ' Second. 

j sranjan Goswami, Second 


First. 


No., name and division. 

Jalpaiguri Ananda Chandra College. 
ROLL JAL. 

202 Dehdas Maitra. Second. 

20.' l Mnkulkanti Dch, Second. 

201 Sailendra Chanda, Third. 

21(i Rajat niohan IUnittsKhar v ya, T’hird. 

221 Pi a nahkmnar Chat topadhynv , Third. 

228 Bikas (Tiandhnn, Thud. 

288 Mukulesuar Bliat tacharyyn . T'hird. 

211 Suhodhkunuvr Sen, TTiird. 

212 Sa< lngopal Bandyo])adhyay , Third. 

247 K'anajjitkuniai ('haltopadhyay, Third. 

2 tP Kainalkanti Rhaumik, T'hird. 

2-52 Digemlralal lLvy, Third. 

2 A 8 Kaniehnndru Das, Third. 

2-5.5 Saurendranat.h Sil, Third. 

2.57 Asokknmar Baml\ opadliyav, Second. 

288 Lukes Saikar, Second. 

2.50 J)ipak (Tiandhnn, T'hird. 

2(50 Clia-ndan Bhattacharyvn, T'hird. 

2(51 Ajitkumar Mitia. T'hird 
2(58 Gautam Ghosh. Second 
2<J<5 Bikascliaitdru Maid l*. Second. 

2(58 Rat hmdranath Mniumdar, Second. 

270 Bi jahhlnishan M ukhopadli\ a*\ . TTiird. 

288 Muuojknmar Gangopadhyay, Second. 

284 Ladly Ray, Second. 

28(5 Dipak Bandyopadhyay , Second. 

287 Pranabendi ana*ra\ an llhnt tacharyyn. Third. 

280 Pipishkiimar Das, TTiird 

202 Prapliullakumar Slitra, T'hird. 

20.5 Anmiul llaipie Sarkar. Thud. 

801 Smiilkumar Glmsli, T'hird. 

802 Suhirkumar Ghosh, Second. 

808 Said Dasguptn, T'lmd. 

80 1 T'iHa<Tiaud Das T’hird 
810 Paritoshkumai Basu, T’hird. 


ROLL JAL. F. 

4 Nmipnma Chakiaharti, Third. 

7 Kanika Pandit, Third. 

10 Sipra* Chaudhuii, T'hird. 

20 Dipti Sen, Second. 


Non-Collegiate Students, Jalpaiguri Ananda Chandra 
College. 

ROLL JAL. F. N. 

87 Sephali Pal, Thiid. 

88 Lmn Ghoshdast idai , T'hird. 


Non-Collegiate Student, Jalpaiguri Ananda Chandra 
College. 

ROLL JAL. N. 

0 Dilipkuniar Sikdar, Second. 

Jalpaiguri Prasannadeb Women’s College. 

ROLL JAL. F. 

• 

27 Sati Clin ttopadhya v, T'hird. 

28 A1 ina*ti Chakrahai 1 1 , 11 iRcgn. No. 12090 of 1957-58), 

Second. 

20 Hasi Basu, Second 

8.5 Gnyatn Mitra, Tlnid. 

8(5 Minati R‘a\ , Second. 

.‘18 Dohi Ghosh, Second. 

80 l)oll\ Pat ha k Second. 

40 .lliarna Sen. T’lmd 

41 Sarmishtha Guha Second. 

48 Pratmia Ragrlii, 1* irst . 

41 Ka*l>ani De, T’hird 

47 Chitra Adlnkan. Second. 

48 Manpisri Basil, Second 

;52 Mania (7ang</padli\ ay , T'hird. 

58 Dipti Rn\ , TTiird. 

.54 Miivu Band vopa<Ui vav, 11 (Rogn. No. 12073 of 1957- 
58), Third. 

5.5 Sipra Sengii]»ta, Third. 

5(5 Sipra ra»ni Basu, Third 
.57 Anima De, Second. 

58 Maya Mitra, Third. 

50 Reba De. Second. 

52 Swapna Ray, Third. 

(>4 Jayasri Chakraharti, Third. 

(56 Anjali Misra, Third. 

67 Gita Sa»rkar, Third. 

70 Kink ini Sen, Third. 

71 Rina Bhal tacharyya, Third. 

78 Mira Biswas, Third. 

75 Ruby Guha sarkar. Second. 

76 Cliarusila Basu, Third. 



96 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


[Part u 


No., name and division. 

Jalpaiguri Prasannadeb Women’s College. 

ROLL JAL. F. 

77 Bekha Bundyopadhyay, Third. 

7H Manisha Ghosh, Third. 

79 Gita M ukhopadhyay, I (Begn. No. 22793 of 1959- 
00) , Second. 

HO Ela Dasgunta. Third. 

82 Mira Nanai. Third. 

87 Dipali Bamlyopadhyay, Second. 

93 Ha P»l, Third. 

97 Latika Basu, Third. 

99 Purnima Datta, Third. 

100 Sejihali De, Thirtl. 

101 Mita Datta, Third. 

102 .lliarna Nandi, Third. 

103 Gauri Chaudhuri Third. . 

1116 GiU Ghosh, ir (konn. No. 22769 of 1959-60), Third. 
108 Aichamwmii lJandyopadhyay, Third. 

1051 Bifclii Majmridar, Third. 

11 5 Bitlii Ghosh, Third. 

118 Sipra Sen, Third. 

119 Prasadi Ghosh, Second. 

121 Purnima Sarkar, Second. 

125 Sipra Chaudhuri, Third. 

120 Basantiku Basil, M'hird. 

131 An hana Ghosh, I'lnrd. 

132 Gitanwii B’a.v, Third. 

139 Arati ( Juhasarkar, Third. 

1 11 Arati Bliatt acliaryya, Second. 

1 13 Bhnrati Baluit, Second. 

Ill Kalpana Chntlopadhyav, Second. 

I 15 Sudipla Cliakraharti, First. 

1 4<* Mina Cliakraharti, First. 

1 17 Nupur Guhnmyogi, Second. 

150 Aparna ( Mmkrnharti, First. 

151 Archana Clmkrnburi i, Second. 

152 'lliarna Bhamnik, Second. 

153 Mona Dashiswas, Second. 

151 Anuhha Bay, First. 

155 Debikanwii Sadhya, Second. 

15(> Lina Bhadra, Third. 

158 Chhunda Bay, First. 

100 Batna Guhaniyogi, M'hird. 

101 Dalnna Mitra, Third. 

102 Jutliika Sengupta, Second. 

103 Santwana < Mia-ttopadhvay, Second. 

167 Aparna Ghosh, Third. 

108 Nupnr Sarkar, Second. 

170 .lliarna Bay, Third. 

173 Bandana Pal, Third. 

171 Namita Bay, MMnrd. 

176 Beha Niyogi, Third. 

178 Gita Datta, Third. 

181 Anima Sengnpta, Second. 

182 Niyati Sanyal, Third. 

183 Ihlia Majumdar, Second. 

184 Prana ti Bagchi, M'hird. 

185 Bandana Basak. Second. 

180 Minati Gangopwlhyav, Third. 

188 Buhv Cliakraharti, Second. 

189 Santwana Chaudhuri, Second. 

190 Prilj Ghosh, Second. 

193 Chhanda Brahma, Second. 

195 Kumkmn Bay, Second. 

190 1 1» SoTiehnudiiuri, Third. 

197 Badlian Da»s, Socond. 

198 Doll*, Datta, M'hird. 

199 Si la Datta, Second. 

200 B'adhnrani Datta. Socond. 

201 Sima Bay, First. 


Janglpur College. 

ROLL JANGI. 

1 Md. Ahdul Mozid, Third. 

2 Asokkumur Bay, Third. 

3 Ahwdian Ali, Third. 

5 Nikhfleschandra Bay, Third. 

0 Girijasankar Chaudhuri, Third. 

8 Mohammad Saidul Hoque, Second. 

9 Haghunath Das, Third. 

10 Aid. Belal Hossain, Second. 

10 Abu-Bakkar Siddik, Second. 

20 Pamchandra Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

21 Chandrakumar Mukhopadhyay v Second. 
25 Sisirkumar Afukhopadhyav, Third. 

28 Jaykrishna Sukul, Second. 

29 Bijankumar Sen, Third. 

33 Md. Mojammel Hoque, Second. 

41 Madanmohan Das, Second. 

42 Sa-idul Islam, Second. 

44 Amalkumar Sarkar, Second. 

47 Mahammad Alojammel Hak, Third. 

57 Amarendranath Chakrabarti, Third. 


No., name and division. 

Janglpur College. 

ROLL JANGI. 

67 Nanda Chattopadhyay, Seccmd. 

68 Dili])kumar Das, Second. 

69 Madhutnangul Pal, Third. 

70 Pranahananda Chaudhuri, Third. 

71 Sam sudd in Ahmad, Second. 

74 Md. Bani 1 brail, Third. 

75 Mozallar Ali, Third. 

89 Dipuknarayan Khan, Third. 

136 Sasankasekar Alarjjit, Second. 

Ill Sibsankar Goswauu, Third. 

155 Saumyendukumar Pandit, Second. 

176 Alidus Sattar, Third. 

185 Humayun Kabir, Second. 

188 Mohammad Zahiruddm Alollah, Third. 

189 Prabhakar Alandal, Third. 

ROLL JANGI. F« 

8 Pnutiina Saha, Second. 

9 Aiiandaniayi Das, Second. 


Jhargram Raj College. 
ROLL JHAR. 

1 Dwijcndralal Satpatlii, First. 

2 Ajitkumar Satpatlii, Second. 

6 lhvarknnath Achnr a >>a, MMurd. 

7 Gndadhar liera. Second. 

8 Chandrasekhar Satpatlii, Second. 

9 Chanduimshun Alahata*, Second. 

11 Pradyuniiiakiiniar I lota, M’hird. 

12 Dibenduhikas llota, First. 

16 Khagcndianatli Patra, Second. 

17 Bhu))aiihhiisliau Ghosh, Second. 

18 l>aya*sankar Duhe, TTiird . 

19 Ninnalchaiidra llansda, Third. 

20 llarondranatli Pani, Third. 

23 Alanindrauath Chaudhuri, Third. 

21 Alatioranjan Ghosh, MMnrd. 

26 Sudhakiwita Pratihar, M'hird. 

30 liulitluimar Alahanti, M'hird. 

31 Sat Indiana tli Pat icliaudlmri, Second. 

36 Dhi rend rana tli Alahata, Second. 

37 Kintihhushan Alahapa*lrn . M’hird. 

AS Manikchamlra Alahanti, M’hird. 

39 Rashihan Alahata, Third. 

40 Sahhapati Sinhn, Second. 

41 Ilarcndrtwiath Das, First. 

46 Birajasundar De, M’hird. 

48 Babitidranath Bay, M’hird. 

52 Asitkumar Sarkar, M’hird. 

55 .Tagannath Poddar, Second. 

56 Narendrunath Bluvt.tacharyya, Second. 

57 Mnnojkuniar Bamlyopadhyay, First. 

58 Kailaschandra Alahata, Second. 

ROLL JHAR. F. 

1 Swap tin Ghoshdastidar, Third. 

2 Sandhya Sen, First. 

3 .lharna Sen, First. 

4 Sunanda l)asgu]ita, First. 

6 Anjali Majumdar, Second. 

7 Anima Bhattachar\ya, M'hird. 

8 Gita Bhattachnr\ya, M'hird. 

9 Snlekha Chaudliuri, Seci/nd. 

10 Sinuuili Sinlia, Second. 

15 Bella Mukhopadhyay, M'hird. 

22 Sukla Gupta, M'hird. 

23 Suhhra Gupta, Second. 

24 Ilarani Datta, M'hird. 

26 Gita Gangopadh.yay, Second 

27 Amiradha Biswas, Third. 


Jiaganj Srlpat Singh College. 
ROLL JIA. 

2 Swf*lhin Gupta, First. 

3 Ahindrakumar Chaudhuri. Third. 

4 Khagendran»*th Mandal, Third. 

5 Sachigopal Pal, Socond. 

7 Dilipkumar Das, Second. 

8 Banamali Goswami, Second. 

9 Chandicharan Sanyal, T’hird. 

11 Niharancha*ndra Ghosh, Third. 

12 Sasankasekhar Sarkar, Second. 

13 Suranjankumar Saha, First. 

14 Sudhendu Bhaumik, Third. 

19 Birendranath Pal. Third. 

25 Saurendrakumar Dhar, Second. 

26 Sarojkumar Biswas, Second. 

28 Santoshkumar Bhattacharyya, Second. 


Hin n^j 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


97 


No., name and division. 

J lagan j Sripat 8lngh College. 
ROLL «ll A. 

^.nuirkumar Sanyal, Second. 

HjinajiLkuinar Sain*, Third, 
xigsii’chandra Das, Third. 

,, 1'iahii kuinar Chakraharti, Third. 
l' (> Mil Aituhuddin, Third. 

I ,| imltii Mimriu, Third. 

> I i|ii|>K um;ir Randyopiwlhyuv, Second. 

|):n.ih:indhu Ghosh, Second. 
hl , ihlipkumiir Chakraharti, Third, 
i ,* t Vnipkiiinar Sinharny, Third. 

.i \niukumnr Sanyal, Second. 

;’l Apurhakmnar Kar, Second, 
fj \i ii>akuinar Sinharay, Third. 

~ir 'Mihrata Rhattaehary.ya, Third. 

»i v.njM^clMindra Pay, Second. 
h, <u ;u\la Rasguptu*, Third, 
pi pi a -.int a nath Lahiri, Third. 

:>j l'li.n ingohandra Das, Third. 

Ml M.unklal Dliar, Third. 
m| hanmasimlhu Mandal, Third, 
i » r (nipalchuudru TMallik, vSeoond. 
ms Dul.dhan Das, Third, 
pm ( intlntanjan Ghosh, Third, 
in I Amlkmnar Das. Tith'd. 

I ■' l Ihka^ariauda Ray, Second. 

IN 'Mihhu.shk mnar Ohattopadliyay, Tliird. 

1,,. K.i/.liii Uaipie, Third. 

IT. Mil Novvshed Ali, r rinrd. 

s.Hikarkumar Biswas, Tliird. 

M DclMpn\a Lahiri, Third. 

I in M inoranjun Chaudhuri, Third. 

Ill \i lpcndranarayan Mukhopadhyny, Second. 
Ill Diil.dkwmar Paso. First. 

:i I* M s.wilakiimnr Chakraharti, Third. 

' i Mariikcha ml Das, Third. 

;; T.mtkinnni' Sarkar, First. 

!‘ Nuinalkumar Datta, Third. 

' 1 1'icmlia Singh Diidhnnn (Ca), Second, 
it .1 .i \ n«n ! dal Pande, Second. 

■: l kiLi.i iichandni. Datia, Third. 

I 1 - I Lm 1 v ana tli Saha, Third. 
ii 1 ' \ 'iik kuinar Uand.vopadliyay, Third 
\nmkumai Sinha., Third 
1 1 • ''nh'.ila Rhnttaehnryyn, Third. 

1 d \ <n ii m;i \ Sinha, 'third. 


ROLL JIA. r. 

’ L'p-'h G'uptu. Second. 

7 Mmah Ray, Second. 

: I » 1 1 Inka IMnvni, Third. 

* hiiulan.i Pal, Second. 

1 s 'imum ra Rav, Second. 

" M.ivaiam Sinha, Third. 

! ' | kan | u filial tacharvva. Third 
I**M" ( liakinharti, Second. 
M t.i Rhnt Larharyva Third. 

1 '*'".1(1 |);,s, Third. 


Kadasahar Ramkrishna Mahavldyalaya. 

ROLL KAILA. 

^ m pern! rach nil clra p 0 Third. 

^'dihasranjan liny. Third. 

J'jniijopai Adhikari, Second. 

\M=w.i< J in1i liny. Third. 

ni'attiKliar.vva. Soroml. 

■'"'‘iiiki ishna Uni, Third. 

"""inlrnkumar liiswan, Third 
mmnsubikas Cliaudhtiri, Third. 

\ I r , . k VM a T Chakraharti , Third. 

J, .' v ' 1 CJinkmbarU. Second. 

, :N, ' har AH, Third. 

Uneii k'. 1 ' i* l^ljktnchar.i’yn, Second. 

Ni l k, "' hna I alit - Third. 

I- 1 n."V , " t, 1 Tlhakrabarti, Third. 

■vik !., "o.‘ l,a , Chanda, Third. 

P :n ,’, "hftttneharyyn, Second, 
v ,k i ,,mnr „ Ra y. Second. 

sst^'sak’isai. 


No., name and division. 

Kgllasahar Ramkrishna Mahavldyalaya. 

ROLL KAILA. F. 

1*2 Niia Deb, First. 

14 Gita Pail, Second. 


Kalimpong g. u. M. College. 

ROLL K ALIM. 

1 Deoinnni Suhba, Third. 

A Narendra Prasad ltai, Third. 

4 Narad Mam Shnrma, Socond. 

Man Ihihadur Yony.one, Second. 

7 (ivsMiendra Kumar Rmigong, Second. 

5 f)il Kumar (*1111111*5, Second. 

■J Ronjamin Pundip Rai, Second. 

Id Ri|ov Kumar Kumal, Third. 

14 Lain Chandra Sharma, Third. 

17 Suhlias < Miami ra .lain, First. 

15 Rhuohiing Rhtilia, Tfnrd. 


ROLL K ALIM. F. 

2 I ndira lilial Lwliaryya, Second. 

A 4 shoring Non zoom Rlmtia, Second. 
S Kamala Rasnet, Third. 


Id 

IK 

in 

2*2 

27) 

27 

41 

42 
10 
11 
07) 
HI 
82 
si 
so 
01 
on 
01 
on 
oo 

OH 

101 

ion 

in 
1 1*2 
117 
128 

l. 42 
140 
148 
140 
1 10 
111 
1 14 

mo 

m. 4 


1. 


Kama College. 

ROLL KALNA. 

Rabindranath Chatiopadliyay, Thin 
lliseKWur Ghosh, Third. 

Samar ninth Rhattacharvya, Third. 

Sun iti Kumar Mallik, Second. 
Dilipkumar Malik, First. 
Prannhkunmr Gosnamj, Socond. 
Rasudeh Chat-1, opadhyay, Second 
Jagahamlhu Pal, Third 
Aid. Aber, Third. 

DchkuintM* Basil. Second. 

Abu Syed Shaikh, Third. 

Aid. Safiet Ali Shaikh, Second. 
Sudhatisukumar Rasu, First. 
Canrcliandra Carai, First. 

Seikh Rahim Pakso, Third 
MiMiomohnn Do, Second. 

Si ba prasad Chatto'padiiyay, Second. 
Arahinda Das, Second 
Snhiinul Datta. Third. 

Asitknmar Das, First. 

La k shm i Nara.van Agimvalla, Second 
Ivasamay Dhali, Second. 
Dipondrakumar Ooswiimi, Third. 
Sankarprasml Hor, First. 

Nit 1 tosh Mukhopadhyav, Second. 
Kathindnwnohan (’haiullmri, Third 
Amivakumar Randyopadhyav 'third 
Sudlurkumar Pal, Second. ' 

Su rath kuinar Mukliopadhvay Third 
Sat, varan pm Rliaumik, Tliird.’ 

Suktimar Dais Second. 

Anadiranjan Bnndvopadliyay, Stwond 
Radalchandra Son, Third. 

Harihar Ray. 'I’hird. 

Prahhakar Pan do. Third 
Ibssudeh Nath, Third 
Dilipkumar Mukhopadhvnv, Second 
Susilkumar Lafiiri, Third.' 

Stikumar Mamlal, Third. 

A ini a Pam Sharma, Second. 


ROLL KALNA. F. 


0 

il 

26 


Sandhva Mallik, Third 
Alanmta Ray, Third. 

S;d»ita Rhattacharvya, Second. 


N on-Cel leglate Students, Kalna College. 
ROLL KAT. N. 

17 Kftmalkrishna Ohattopadhyay, Tliird. 

20 Girindranath Deyasin, Third! 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


US 


I Part 


No., name and division. 

Kandi Raj College. 

ROLL KANDI. 

2 Shaik Samsinsuha, Third. 

4 Dipakkumar Sarkar, Third. 

5 Mo. Aktar Ali, Third. 

6 Mangalarharan Dat>, Third. 

7 Dinabandhu Ghosh, Second. 

8 SasankaseUliur Miijumdur, Second. 

9 Khondekar Fasslo Kindi 1 , Second. 

12 JVIolianiined Sycd, First 

18 Aiiaiuladulal Mukliopadhyay, Second. 
14 Jashodanandan Sarkar, Third. 

|T> Nmnalendu Mukliopadhyay, r l bird. 

J7 Mohammad Amir Hussain, Second. 

18 llanuiHamhhu Ghosh, Third. 

20 iVlai nun mad Nuruddin Second. 

22 Baulyanath Ghosh, Second. 

28 A Him k uniat* Pathak, Second. 

24 Asokknmar Mukliopadhyay, Third. 

27 Sitalchandra Bandyopadhyay, Second. 
20 Sihananda Ghosh, Third. 

82 Biroswar Sarkar, Third. 

88 Kasmath Mandal, Third. 

86 jVld. Nimil Huq, Second. 

80 Mohammad Nural idoquo, Third. 

87 Siikhemluhikas Mukliopadhyay, Third. 
;tK Md. Ntwsrul Islam, Third. 

40 Md. Yunus Ali, Third. 

42 Orainhakumar Das, Third. 

48 Khomlakar Anower llossain, Third. 

45 Kiidrunuth Jlati, Third. 

|(i Sumtkiimar Majumdar, Second. 

47 Guurisankar ChatLopadhyav, Second. 

48 Gauriprasanna Sinharay, First. 

40 Baidyanath Das, Second. 

50 Asitkumar Ghosh, Second. 

51 Pankn jktimar Kundu, Second. 

52 Nakulchandru Chattopadhyay, Second. 
58 Kamaleschandra Mandal, Second. 

54 Ihpadhlianjan Saha, Third. 

55 it an aj it Chattopadhyay, Third. 

50 Prahirkumar Datta, hirst. 

58 Biswanath Saha, Third 
(>] Saktipodu Gliatak, First. 

08 Taramkant.a Sinha, Second 
01 Mahadcb Saha, Second. 

08 Satyahrata Ghosh, Second. 

00 Pnyabrata Ghosli, Second 
70 Ali Asgar, Third. 

70 1 1 aladlia r Glmsh, Second. 

81 1‘rahhavkumar Das, Third. 

82 N dial Kumar Chattopadhyay, Third 

88 Abdul Jlntnul, Second. 


ROLL KANDI. F. 

2 Bitlnka. Sinha, Third. 

.» Sinuitra Sarkar, Second. 

4 Kalyani Bhnttaehnryya, Flint. 

5 Aparajita Sinha, Third. 

0 Dipika Sinha, Second. 


Katwa College. 

ROLL KAT. 

1 Mahimaranjan Sinha, Third. 

2 Baulyanath Sarkar, Second. 

10 Atulkumar Rabahi, Second. 

11 Lakshin mu ray an Pandit, Third. 

10 Nitaicliandra Mukliopadhyay, Third. 

21 Ratlliasyam Garni, Second. 

28 Satyanarayan Rudra, Third. 

25 Md. Golain Zelani, Third. 

28 Golam Mustafa Mandal, Third. 

20 Manir Ahammad, Third. 

81 Kamadacharan Bandyopadhyay, Second. 
88 Bithindranath Sarkar, Third. 

85 Ihiluichand Tliakur, Second. 

80 Rabindranath Chaudhuri, Third. 

14 .Inn Raksh Mallick, Third. 

46 Santiprasail Chandra, Third. 

40 Apurhakumar Mallik, Third. 

51 Sheikh Imanutnlla, Third. 

52 Snsankasekliar Chakraharti, Third. 

51 Himansusekhar Hengupta, Second. 

61 Suhodlikumar Saha, Third 

07 Smarajit Mukliopadhyay, Third. 

70 Sibakumar Chattopadhyay,^ Third. 

71 Nripendranatli Saha, Third. 

72 Barunchandra Dasmietri, Third. 

75 Harugopal Rudra, First. 

77 ^in\picharan Datta, First. 


No., name and division. 

Katwa College. 

ROLL KAT. 

80 Patitpaban Bhakat, Second. 

81 Saumendranath Barman, Second. 

82 Akshaykumar Das, Second. 

8-3 Rabindranath Chandra, Third. 

87 Shaikh A bul HaBhem,^ Third. 

01 Kartikchaiulra Ray, Third. 

08 Nirmalkanti Aich, Third. 

108 Ajoykumar Ghosh Second. 

10J Md. Alsiuddin Datader, Second. 

109 Debabrata Das, Third. 

1 10 Sliamsuddin Ahamed, Third. 

1 12 M uliam m:i(l Sira] ill lloque, Third. 

115 Suehiuandan Pal, Third. 

124 Sanurkunmr Chakrabarti, First. 

127 Nityananda Bhattacharyya. Third. 

120 Kaiaeliand Mallik, Soconi. 

180 Basantakumar De, Third. 

182 Gurupada Das, Second. 

184 Pundarikaksha Sinha, Third. 

188 Baulyanath Chattopadhyay. Third. 

149 Md. Ahdur Raliim Khan, Third. 

156 Asuranjan Debnath, Second. 

157 S\ umulakanta Tha?kur, Third. 

158 Asishkumar Datta, Third. 

165 Ghausyam Dasbairagya, Third. 

166 Bliolanath l>ashairajj;ya, Second. 

167 Sainarendranath (Hmttojiadhyuy, Tiiird. 
160 Jyotirnmy Adhikari, Third. 

170 Madhurmilan Sarmasanuwita, Second. 
172 Prabirkuinar Das^upta, Second. 

178 Samaiendranath Mitra, Third. 

174 Kariinamay Mandal, Second. 

175 Khondakar Hyder Ali, Second. 

176 Mihirkunuir Das, First. 

180 Narayandas Datta. Third. 

187 Siddheswar Ray, Third. 

188 SaktisJidhan ( Haiti npadhyny, Second 

100 Panrhkari Saha, Second. 

101 Aii!iny;adeh Bandyopiidhyay, Second. 

108 Dulalkumar Mukliopadhyay, Socoucl. 

200 II rida.M'anjan Hatm, Third. 

201 ItaiiiLptkumar Ghosh, Second. 

208 Katyapada Saha, Third. 

208 Ajit Kumar Datta, Second. 

211 Saiusul lloda, Second. 

217 Prasantakimuir Datta, 'rhird. 

222 Kdiudiiiim Haidar, Second. 

228 Itathindrsikimiar Mukliopadhyay, Thud 
226 Kasinut h M ukliopadliy ay , Third 

220 Nirnudemiu Chaudhuri, Third. 

221 N Iranian Setigupta, Second. 

282 Dfhnn'th Bandyopadhyay, Second 
288 Santoslikumar Kundu, Third. 

281 Bi|.iy^>;opal Ghosh, Third. 

286 Anilkumiir Sinha, Third. 

288 Jyntmnay Datta, Second. 

280 .la<rahnndhu Saha, Second. 

218 Mohammad Zakria, Third. 

211 Bliircndranath Dewan, Third. 

217 Amitkiiiuar Mallik (Ca), First. 

218 Itiipakkuniar Chaki, First. 

258 Tapankumat Mukliopadhyay, Second. 
256 Krislinnchaudru. (Hiattopadliyay, Third. 
201 Ranajitkumar Itay, Third. 

2(H Bnnipnya Ghosh, Second. 

265 Nmnalendu Mukliopadhyay, Third. 

266 Rabindranath Sinha, Second. 

268 Saiireskumar Mandal, Second. 

270 Susilkumar Sinha, Second. 

275 Ridyulkunmr Sain, Third. 

276 Kiwi Md. llazanuz Zaman, Third. 


ROLL KAT. F. 

1 Ihini Chattopadhyay, Third. 

2 Chlinya Mukliopadhyay, Second. 
8 Santa Mukliopadhyay, Third. 

1 A rat i Mukhopadliyay, Second. 

5 Bi link a Gupta, Third. 

10 M msil i Ihindyopadhyay, Second. 

11 Madhahi Biswas, Third. 

12 Sadluina Mukliupadhyay, Third. 
12 Gauri BlmttacTmry.ya, Third. 

14 Anjali Nandi, Second. 

15 Olihubi Bandyopadhyay, Third. 


Non-Col leglate Students, Katwa Collet- 
ROLL KAT. N. 

17 Kamalkrishna Chattopadhyay, Third. 

20 Girindranath Deyasi%, Third. 



|>*i?r IB] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1692 


99 


No., name and division. 

Kharagpur Collage. 
ROLL KHARAG. 


No., name and division. 

Kharagpur College. 
ROLL KHARAG. 


I Faresnath Datta, Second, 
o Jvulipada Das, First. 

~ } Dhirendranath Giri, Third. 

[, Saktipada Misra, Third. 

; Gaurbari Guchhait, Third. 

^ Bidyutkumar Maiti. First. 

<,) Gurusaday Datta, Second, 
lii K. Jagannatha liao, Second. 

II Tilnk Bahadur Rai, Second. 

IS Itamosh Chandra. Second. 

•>n Hans Narayan Sikaria, First. 

•jl Gulab Ohand, Second. 

22 G. Viswanadham, Second. 

•j.; Swilhirkumar Das, First. 

5;, Kadhe Shyam Agnrwal, Third. 

Anjankumar Ghosh, Third. 
o<i Sankinrsaran Das, Second. 

\V> Clianchal Datta, Third. 

U Sui)odhkumar Sarkar, Second. 

,17 Sudursun Cliakraharti, Second. 

.M Asokkumar Chaudhuri, Third. 

II Lakslimikanta Pahari, Second. 
j:i llanjitkumar Karsinha Second 
1 1 Surcndranath Sinha, Third. 

47» Kanialkumar Sen, Second. 

17 iManotosh Sarkar, Second. 

IS Sudhansusekhar Sam, Second. 

4<l Ihjayknshna Samaddar, Second. 

7)0 Dilipk lunar Sarkar, Second. 
r , 2 Amitahha Ray, First. 

Til Sibsundar Baeuray, Third. 

7)7) Susilkumar Ray. Second. 

7>i> IVubirkuinar Saiiu, Second. 

7>7 Asmikumar Pal, First. 

:>9 Bhiitnatli Fatra (Ca), Second. 

(ill Suhirkutnar Mitra, Second. 

<> 1 Biswnnatli Misra, Third. 

M Xiwulsilal Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

<m Saileskumar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

I>7 Asokkumar Nag, Second. 

<1S Hiremlrnnath Nanda, Third. 

<> ( .i liimalendu Maiti, Second. 

71 Sju iidmdubikas Mallik, Third. 

^1 N.ibnkuinar Knndu, Second. 

77 Dingeskumar Guba, Second. 

Ihpivkiirnar Dob, Second. 
u 2 halipada .Do, Second. 

^ } I’jircsclnnulra Damlapat, Third. 
s ’i Naiimkanta Dins, Second. 

I,() I >m\ endutiikas Bhuiyan, Second. 

•*' l Numulkumar Cliakraharti, Second. 

'6 Mainkchandrn Bora, Second. 

'*7 Kiibrndranalh BandyopsKihvay, Second. 

K ( hittaranjan Basil, Second. 

,,(| Vnmakmnar Gangopadhyay, Third. 

,IMI \sokkumar Ghosh, I (Rogn. No. 28628 of 1959-60), 
Second. 


102 
Mm; 
I'M 
III) 
III 
I I- 
I 17. 

111 
M7, 
in; 

117 
l is 
l ID 
1 21 
122 
12.1 
I2li 
12S 
1 21 1 
I'll 
i;u 
i.ii 
i.ir, 
i it; 
M7 
I is 
Ho 

1 12 
Ml, 

118 
Mil 
Md 

154 

157 

159 

1B0 

1(12 

16.1 


Tupaskumar Palit, Second. 
Sjwlliucharan Fatra, Second. 
Sankarprasad Ghosh, Second. 
Oudalkutnar Gangopadhyay, Third. 

A su tosh De, Second. 

Giinrangacharuii Datta, Second. 
Manonwijan Dasmahapatra, Second. 
Sisirkumar Basil, Second. 

Manoranjan Baksi, Second. 

H miansusekhar Bera, First. 

Maurliari Mandal, First. 
Bratapchaiidra Sit, Third. 
AniiilyiMiliaran Maliata, Second. 
Hahmdranatli Sahu, Third. 
-Mokkiiiruu- Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

Dhirendranath Datta Third. 
Sisirranjan Mukhopadhyay, Second. 
Dinpkiiiiiar Ghosh, Third, 
yikuinar Das, Third 
Xa*t.yoiidranath Sinha,' Third, 
^ankarkuinar Sarkar, Third, 
■v-iilikinkar Raj, Second. 

J7 r, inkiiinar Frnmanik, Second, 
^■niinlkuniar Fatra, Third. 
Kaliprasanna Pradhan, Third. 

V ll.'kumar Fradhan, Second, 
auhinchnndra Nayak, Third, 
ihinsirlliar Faira, Third. 

J»widhar Mahata, Third, 
nrodharan Mahapatra, Second, 
■lanim .Tana, Third. 
i>'i'".ntakumar Jana, Third. 
& knsl ? na Gh°»hal, Third. 

^ ''"undan Qhoshal, Second. 
u?'N» De, Third. 

K,“ !T? n l“n ^Baudhuri, Third. 
Anai7.7 .iP,?, ttopad,lyay ' Second. 

K. , th Bhui . Third. 

"wisankar Bl.attach.ryya, Third. 


164 BaJailal Bhattaehary> a, Second. 

1GU N nan jan kumar Ghara, Second. 

107 Akhilranjun Maiti, Third. 

108 Mrityunjay Maiti, Third. 

109 Fhatikciiandra Fatra, Second. 

170 Sk. Zubod Hussain, Third. 

175 M. Ram Chandra R'ao, Second. 

177 Viucit Behara, Second. 

178 Nirinalcliandra Dae. Third. 

179 D. Suryanarayau Patnaik, Third. 

189 Amhansh Mahapatra, Third. 

190 Manoranjan Bhuiyan Second. 

190 Binuwibihuri Datta, Third. 

195 Anilkuinar Ghosh, Third. 

198 Susilkumar Sarkar, Third. 

199 Bimalchanilra Maiti, Third. 

298 Suhhenduhikas Haidar, Third. 

205 Nisikunta Maiti, Third. 

207 Frouiendrukuinar Mitra, First. 

208 Malay endu Ghosh, Second. 

210 Mir/.a Abdul Rahaman Begg, Third. 

212 Nirmalendu Cliaudhun, Second. 

21:1 Dhirendranath Das, Second. 

21 1 Rumkisor Bhattaeharyya, Third. 

210 Asutosh Cliakraharti, Third. 

217 Bilipkuniftr Saha, Third. 

219 Amines Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

220 Fulakkumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

221 Biretikutuar Mandal. Second. 

226 Hirdaynath Sinha, Third. 

281 Kartikchandra Ojha, Third. 

200 Dhirciidi swiuth Setua, Third. 

2.88 Lakslimikanta Jana, Second. 

241 Biswanath Aicli, Second. 

240 Frasantakuinar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

249 Bahindranath Ra-kslnt, Third. 

250 Sihuath Saha, Second. 

259 Guutihoyina Fundu Ranga R'ao, Third. 


ROLL KHARAG. F. 

1 BiLtnka Nandi, Second. 

2 Anjali Gupta, 'third. 

1 Barn Ray, First. 

5 Bijali Fatra, Third. 

7 Maujula Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

8 Gceta Chopra, Second. 

9 Cyan lndcr Kaur, Second. 

JO Amaijeet Katir Kandoia, Second. 

11 Jyotsna Bandyi/padhyay (Mrs. Paladin), 'third. 

12 Kartai Kaur, Second. 

15 llargimiar Kaur, Second. 

14 Rama Ghosh, Second. 

17 Bupali Garigopadhyay, 'third. 

18 Ha Datta, Thiid. 

19 Alorani Das, Third. 

21 Nannta Sengupta 'Third. 

22 M. Fadmavatlii Sastri, Second. 

25 Dipali Biswas, 'third. 

21 Brahma Acharyya, 'third. 

25 Salnta Cliakraharti, Second. 

27 Ivy Baksi, Third. 

.‘16 Dulali Cliakraharti, Second. 

57 Kalyam Basil, Second. 

58 Mira Basil, Tliird. 

40 Mira Gangopadhyay, 'third. 

41 Smritikana Mukiiopmllivay , Third. 

44 Aninia Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

45 Luna Datta, Third. 

47 Saibahni Do, Second. 

48 Mira Ghosh, Third. 

19 Minu Datta, Third. 

51 Anita Ghosh, Second. 

59 Alaka Bliaduri, Third. 


Krishnagar College. 
ROLL KRI. 

5 Bipulkanti Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

1 Dilipkuniar Bhaumik, Second. 

6 J'alntrak uinar Biswas, Third. 

7 Sunirmal J. Biswas, Third. 

12 Kisorimohan Chauilhuri, Second. 

18 Frasantakuinar Cliakraharti, Second. 
17 Mrinalkanti Ghosh, Third. 

19 Binaykrishna Haidar, Third. 

21 Dihyendukumar Maitra. Third. 

22 Agapit Mondol, Second. 

28 Jiban Kumar Mondol Third. 

30 Mihirkumar Sarkar, Second. 

81 Surescha<ndra Sarkar, Third. 

82 Santoshkumar Chattopadhyay, Second. 
X Mothy Sorkar, Second. 



No., name and division. 

Krlshnagar Collage. 

ROLL KRI. 

;ifj Mil. A raj Ali Mandal, Second. 

47 Subimal Chandra, Third. 

.‘18 PrabhaKranjun Biswas, Second. 

49 Dilipkwinar Bhattueharvya, Third. 

10 Kanuilkanti Baiidyopadhyay, Third. 

12 Sdmprasad Brnwas, Third. 

hi Tulsidas (Julia, Third. 

47 HeUnmt All Khan, Second. 

.40 Sumlkuimir Pramanik, Second. 

.44 JHamemlnwiat h Baiidyopadhyay, Second. 
.44 l*i aldmlkii an i ‘hakraharli. Third. 

50 Biiiodtanpui Chakraharti, Second. 

•49 Pulitpulmn Das, Third. 

04 KadascluMidra Mandal, Second. 

0 1 Cliamlrasagar Nandi, 'I'hird. 

0.4 PrakaHchamlra Pal, 'Third. 

07 Saktipada Ray, Third. 

08 Swapankimia-r Bay, Second. 

72 Dehiprasad Srnha, hirst. 

74 Pi anahkuinar Chattopadhyay, Second. 

75 Aimtahha Sanyal, Second. 

70 Satindranath Cha*krubarti, First. 

77 Samhlninath Bhat tacharyya, First. 

78 Mrityunjay Gum, Second. 

79 Suhhasiichandra Biswas, Third. 

80 Sukhcndu Chattopadhyay, Third. 

81 Asitkumur Chandra, Second. 

82 Pranahkiumir Haidar, Third. 

81 Tapaiikumar Pramanik, Second. 

80 SanUarprasad Biswas, Second. 

80 Panmnlkmuar Saha, Third. 

90 Ahhi.pt Chattopadhyay, Seciynd. 

9.4 S. M. Kanialuddin, Third. 

91 .latindranatli JhswaH, First. 

97) Dliiremlrakumnr Dehnath. First. 

90 I hircndrunath Biswas, "Third. 

97 Kchixt unman Biswas, Third 
102 Sanjay Warkar, Second. 

10.*) Santoshkiunar Samaddar, Second. 

1 ( H i Similkumar Biswas, 'Third. 

109 Saiuarjitkiimar Biswas, 'Third. 

110 IhrannisH Basil, Third. 

Ml Sachindrana I h Chakraharti. Third. 

114 Smnraplkumai Basil, Third. 

1 I 1 Daniel Susil Sarker, Second. 

1 14 Kamgopal Bajalc, Second. 

121 .liiga-nnath Italia, First. 

121 .1 itcndrarcith Achar.vya, Second. 

120 Nisnnnth Chaudhuri, 'Third. 

140 Barindranath Saha, Second. 

141 Ainnlyaratnn Sarkar, Third. 

142 SiHriiarcndrannlh Biswas. Second. 

144 SmlaniKrtUha Biswas, Third. 

1 .44 Aptkiimar Bhaduri, Second. 

140 Nimaichandra. Chniidhuri, Second. 

147 Gopnlchandrn Majiimdnr, Third. 

148 Pra.lipUuinar Snrkiw, "Third. 

149 Sant sekh.ir Sarkar, Second. 

112 Santoshkumar Goswatni, 'Third. 


ROLL JAL. 

424 h^ihliashkuniar Ghosh. Second. 


ROLL RANA. F. 

1 Nihharani BnJ, Third. 


Non-Collegiate Student, Krlshnagar College. 
ROLL KRI. N. 

14 'Tapankanti Mallik, Second. 


Krlshnagar Women's College. 
ROLL KRI. F. 

1 flcna Chattopadhyay, First. 

2 Minnti Datta, Second. 

4 Blu>rati Sinha, Second. 

4 Anita Bay, Second. 

5 Anima Mitra, First. 

0 Chhabi Palcliaudhuri, First. 

7 Sati Mitra, Second. 

8 Kamala Saha, Second. 

9 Chandi Gangopadhyay, Second. 

11 Santa Pramanik, Thira. 

12 Anjali Bhattacharyva, Second. 

14 A rati Sanyal, Third. 

*6 Manjusri Rudra, Second. 


No., name and division. 

Krlshnagar Woman's College. 
ROLL KRI. F. 

18 Sununda Sarkar, Third. 

22 Manjita Maitra, Second. 

24 Gauri Maitra, Third. 

27 Sadiiana Ray, Third. 

28 Mira Datta, Third. 

29 Suinitra Gum, Second. 

42 Dolly Biswas, Second. 

44 Manisha Saha, 'Third. 

4 1 liidram ('hakraharli. Second. 

.40 M a ruMiiina \ . C., Second. 

47 Nil i nia Basil, "Third. 

49 Hast Gangopadhyay, 'i’hird. 

4tt Miuati Deb, 'Third. 

12 Lina Das, Second. 

<1 1 Piirniina Biswas, Third. 

44 Kckha Basu, Third. 

49 Krishna Haidar, Third. 

47 P ura In MuJlik, Second. 

IS Alai trey i Chandra, Second. 

19 Sipra Sarkar, Second. 

40 Padtmi Mandal, 'Third. 

41 Scholastica Al. T., Second. 

7)2 Pratmm Chattopadhyay, First. 

41 Sohha Das, Second. 

7)7j Kama Mitra, Third. 

7»7 Khaim Majumdar, First. 

7>9 Kulpana Saha, First. 

00 Mira Sanyal, Third. 

til Mamuta Goswtwni, Second. 

(54 Alanjula Bhattacliaryya, Third. 

()l Dipnnwita Basu, Third, 
titi I la l)e, Third. 

07 Parul Ghosh, Third. 

(i8 Arclmna Mitra, Third. 

<)9 Kckha Chakraharti, Third. 

71 Sohlmna Chakra harti, 'Third. 

72 D,, »ti Biswas, Second. 

74 liulrani Nandi, Third. 

7 1 Kami Pal, Second. 

78 Gayatri Dehi, Third. 

79 Anpili Chattopadhyay, Third. 

50 Chha.N a. Ghoshul, 'I’liird. 

81 A rat i Taraphdar, Second. 

82 A pallia. Maitra, Second. 


Kstiudiram Bose Central College. 
ROLL CAL. 

9109 Prascn.pt Dattaray, Third. 

<>172 Suhrata Chaknvbiiru, Second. 

0174 Saurindrainohaii Mallik, Second. 

0191 Pranahananda Pal, 'Third. 

0417 Salilkumar Gangopadhyay, Second. 

0418 Saiiremlranatli Sarkar, 'Third. 

0M9 Piantusli Ma.pumlai , Third. 

0420 Bhiipomlranath Chakraharti, Third. 

04:* 1 Panolnwmn Chakraharti. Third. 

0448 Al iliirharan Bhattacliaryya, Third. 

0472 Nnyanranjan Bhattacharyyn, Third. 
(*494 Kasaranjan De, Second. 

0011 .lagadiKcliandra Das, 'Third. 

0010 Suhhasish Songupta, Second. 

0t)21 Chintamani Das, Third. 

9021 Sarojkuinnr A'lukhopadhyay, Second. 
(>020 I limadnsckhmr Alukhopadhyay, Second 
942.4 Nityaiiaiula Chaudhuri, Second. 


Non-Collegiate Students, Kshudlram Bose Central CoIIobb 

ROLL CAL. N. 

217 Dehahiat.n Ghosh, Third. 

241 Maheswar Ghoshal, Third. 

24(> Asokkuinar Nathkhan. Second. 

201 Anandalal Bera, Third. 


Lady Brabourne College. 
ROLL CAL. F. 

1020 Kannk Kamnikla] Khara, First. 
1022 Hamer .Lilian Begum, First. 

1024 Aklitan Ahmed, First. 

1021 Alary am Saleh. First. 

1027) Shaista. Shoaibi, First. 

1020 Kalymni Rakshit, First. 

4027 Sipra Datta. First. 

4028 Reba Ghosh, Second. 

4029 Nainita Bandyopadhyay, First. 

40.10 Jiatnabali Ghosh, Second. 

4641 Niisim Aklitar, Second. 

4042 Sajeda Khatoon, Second. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


101 


r* |ir 


IB] 


No., name and division. 

Lady Brabourne Collage. 
ROLL CAL. F. 


No., name and division. 

Lady Brabourne College. 
ROLL CAL. F. 


tu-R 

fil'd 

I'i"' 
(().■{( ■ 
rn;7 

W V" 

ll.ll) 

lull 
H« I- 

i<m ; 
lull 
li.lli 
j , 
M' 4 S 
I * » l * * 
i 

Hi* i 
I"}'-' 

4‘"! 
Hi <■'» 

!i *.*>7 

'i, 

lo V 

jr.i," 


*i.i, ! 


Basu, Second. 

Mokananda < liattopadhyay, First. 
Knslma Mitra, First. 
lluiiHiii Cliakraharti, hirst. 

Amali Sontfupta, First. 

Kcnukn Gangopadhyay, r list. 
*\\mxu Guha CS), First. 
j>j itikana Raychaudhuri, Second. 
Prahluv Mitra, First. 

Ill ui rati Handy opodhy ay. First. 
An'iana Chattopadhyay, First 
Maya* Pal, First. 

Dipali Das, First. 

Chattopadhyay (S), bust. 

A Minima Bandyopudhyay, First, 
lima Sengupta, First. 

I’adiui Chanda, First. 

(’I. a ml mi a Basil. First. 

Poddar, Second, 
na Baiidyopadh.vay, First. 

I ) 1 1 »;i 1 1 Nsm. Third. 

.ijiMiMi Bbattacharyya, Second, 

Kin d Cliakraharti, First. 

'Milii id a Tiiihiri, Second. 

Ihi.ih Halt a. Second. 

di Handyopadhyay, Second. 
<um i tula Raw First, 
r 1 i.i run M iikhopadhyay, First. # 

( lntrarckha Sen^upta, First. 

Mum Sant i a. First. 

\i- lmna Chattopadhyay, First. 
"iiiL'dlia Scrkar, First. 


, M.i \ a. Kinrhaudhuri, Fitst. 

|i t;7 \ l.i kn Be, First. 

Mi- (hi. i Mitra, First. 

UrfiP Knslma Ray, First. 
n ;70 .him Sen"upta, First. 

!<7! Mmakslii Dalai, Second. 

\u, 1 Malahika Senrav, First. 

1». 7 1 (i.ivatn < 'baknvbarti, First. 

It, 7 1 Ihrhitrita Setijrupta, First. 

11,77 l T tna (Julia, Second. 
n.7' . Mail rev i De, Second. 

I* .77 Katun Biswas. First. 
v.7- Siilntii Na", First. 

!• 7" (’hamlana (Julia. First. 

tJita M.itimudar, Koccmil. 

't"l <\ aina Salia, First. 
l'*-J Sima Bardlian, Second. 

KS ; <u,ipna .M iikhopadhyay , First. 

*'>'-! Sen. First, 

I 1 '"*' Imlira (Ja nnopadln a\ , hirst. 

'Hi'iitwana Maoimdat, Fiisl 
,, ''“7 'lapati Ghosh, First. 

: 1 » ^ ‘•nibhra Chnkr.ibari i , Second 

11 t *Swaj»na Ita veliiindlmi i t‘"'M), First. 

Behika M nkliopadln ay. First. 

,,,f ‘l * I min a Kay (SM), First . 

!l,,, V Manikimtala Sum. First. 

( IiimkI nm.i Band\ npadli vay. Second. 


•*.M| 

',T> 

.(/♦7 
H f ' a. 

!( ( > f i 

1700 
!7'»! 
!7d > 
i7ll", 

oil I 

I7i»:, 
17 * in 
17117 

t7H<* 

1710 

1711 
17 III 
I71{ 
1717 

1717 
171s 
1710 
172(1 
1721 
17 l J2 
172't 
1724 
1720 
4727 
-172K 
17‘J0 
47:i) 


Kama Basu, Second. 

Inna (Julia First 

Ren. i Mul.hopadliyav, Second . 

\ • * i : 1 1 1 Majumdar, First. 

Kamk,. Pathak, Second. 

Nm.i Majumdar, First. 

Manika. (’hattopadliyav, First. 

Bin Gupta, First 

Kliarati R a vehniidliuri , First. 

s uhhra Mitra, First. 

Fall >ana Songuptu, First. 

Krishna Cliakraharti, Second. 
•Mujhha Mitra*, Second. 

Dim ina ni Dattu, Second 
Mmtu Das, First. 

B’l'tka Bhattacharvva, First 

Kaial Basu, First 

Jipra Bhaumik, Second. 

‘T^priva Basu, First. 

K'Uivhi Kusari, First. 

Ki'taki Das, First. 

’ Iunda Dasgupta. Second 
,' ra Pna Bandyopadhvav, First, 
7 Vai,, «li Mitra, First, ’ 

''I" Chakrabarti, First. 

'il'* Laskar, Second. 

ICnrlhq, FirRt 

JN’Mi Pal , First. 

n ; iti Dattachaudhuri, First, 
^’jhrata Bir, Second. 

•psli Knndii, Second. 

| Basu, Third. 
r f lmna Basu, Second. 

M llomena Gomes, Third. 

ls " na Mukhopadhyay, Second. 


17- M Ihv Sainal, Secoml. 

174V (Tiaitali Dasjaipta*, Second. 
1744 Mainata Saha, Second. 


1741 

Manika Ghosh, Second. 


1745 

.1 hurna Maitra, Second. 


1740 

Satlii t’liaudhuri, Second. 


t7.‘18 

Katpana* Bandy opadhy ay, 

First. 

1740 

A rati De, Socond. 


1710 

Ar.iti M ukhopadhya.N , I 
50), Second. 

(Ro*i;u. No. 48J80 

1741 

Prathama Sen, First. 


171V 

Suptaram Kar, First, 



4744 Tapati Basil, Second. 

1744 Bliarati Kundti, First. 

4745 Mandira* Ghosh, First. 

47 l(i Lipika Beliura, First. 

1717 Malati Tliakur, First. 

17 IS Gitanjali Das. Third. 

17 IP Sun "ham lira Das, First. 

177)0 Sandhya Saha, Second. 

1751 Dolly Das, Second. 

17 52 Nilinun Chakrabarti, Second. 
175.4 Gila Chat topadhyav. First. 

1751 Knslma Chattopadlivnv, First. 
1755 Indrani Dasj/Aipta, First. 

1750 A j an La Kar, First. 

1757 * IV1 a 1 in i Basu (S), First, 

1 758 Sibani Rayc hand luiri, First, 
1750 Katun Chakrnharl i. Second. 
17()0 Aluknanda Ray, First. 


ROLL BARRACK. F. 

1H5 Mira M iikhopadhyay , First. 


ROLL BASIR. F. 

II Randan;* Sarkar, First. 


ROLL DIA. F. 

V0 San la Dob, Second. 


ROLL KHARAG. F. 

00 ‘Jila ( liaki nharti, Second. 


ROLL SI LI. F. 

1 ( Jil .iM iliandana Scn"iipta, First. 


Loreto Houso. 

ROLL CAL. F. 

50 i Sudlia (Jupt.i, First. 

501 Saiopi Ka-nnil>;idi an. First 
.505 Santa \dliya. First, 

.501) Ka| Kuniaii \if"aiwal, Seccnid 
<1)7 Its. n I hi'- . Seeond. 

•50S Kanial Cliawal. Fn.-t. 

50! » R'eklia .lain. First. 

.510 Kduina (Jeoi"e, Second. 

511 Sa*dbona (Jaii"idi, First. 

51V Sheila SI in a K.to, First. 

51 J> Thelma Violet Katson, Seeond. 

515 Branati Rav, Second. 

517 'I’apati < ’hat I opadhvay, Second 
5 1 S Sucbitia CJliosli. Second 
510 Dslia 1\ enear. First. 

5 V0 Kukhsana Said, Fii*st, 

5V1 Ka*jal M iikhopadhyay. Second. 

5VV Rubv (Janjiopadhyay, Second. 

5V4 Beulah Irene Rossett, Secoml. 

5V1 Maya Sippv, Soci/nd. 

5V5 Pi a Ray, First. 

520 Marie Holmes. First. 

527 Wendv Ann A viot. Second. 

.528 Pushpa Paniekar, Second 
520 Shirley Ann Locke, Second. 

541 Kukla Gnjita, Third. 

542 Akhatarunesa Ali, Second. 

5.T4 Tapati Bhadra, First. 

55 1 Riddhi Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

5817 Sudha Jalan (Mrs. Kanoria), Second. 


19.58- 



102 


lH.h UAIjUUHA i7U4. 


' r ^r IE 


No., name and division. 

Non-Col leglate Students, Loreto House, 
ROLL CAL. F.N. 

1998 Sunanda Hay, First. 

1999 Mahua Mitra, Second. 

2000 Oi Yean Lai, Second. 

2001 Asha Rani Shankar, First. 

2002 Kwugata Basu, First. 

2003 Am nU Malik, Third. 

2(K)4 Silla INirter, Second. 

2000 Kuku Tulwar, Second. 

2007 Nilima Walia, Second. 

200H Pamela Hlandine Jlaslam, Second. 

2009 Shahnaaz Husain, Second. 

2010 Tliritv Antia, Third. 

20 J 1 A nnhha Chaudhuri, Second. 

2012 Sukla* Dhar, Second. 

2014 Hharati Pal, First. 

2015 Duru Mansnkhani, Seeoml. 

2016 Duo Chung Leong. Second. ' 

2017 Naseem Gangjee. Second. 

20 IS Suraj Aldnwalia, Second. 

2019 Klizabeth Joliannes, Second. 

2020 Hel^a Francos Norton, Second. 

2021 .li'iiniier Plies, Second. 

2022 Nandita Mukln/padliyay, First. 

20214 Fslia Gupta, Second. 

2024 lltapla Chattopadliyay, First. 

2025 Kva Gupta, First. 

2026 Pushpa Munglaiu, Third. 

2027 Mario Lewis, Second. 

2028 Krishnalekha Hoy, First. 

2029 Gops* Hay, Second. 

2030 Hu pa Misra, Second. 

20; 41 Shohha Periwal, First. 

20142 llcmlutu Iyer, Second. 

2128 Asoka Datta, Second. 


Maharaja Manindra Chandra College. 
ROLL CAL. 

016 Ssit.Niwiarayan Basil. Third. 

1418 Asitkuniar Biswas, Third. 

.419 Ahanikunuir Biswas. Tliiid. 

022 Pratiaykumar Blind ra, Seeoml 

323 Suhhashc’handra Bhnttnehary ya, Third. 

.‘421 Arunkuimw Bhattuehary\ a, Third. 

026 Dehdas Bhatt acharyya, Sc»eoncl. 

028 Sailendranath Bandyopadhyay, Second. 
000 Dilipkumar Bandyopadhyay, First. 

0.01 Sokharranjnn Bha*t-t acharyya. Third. 

004 .Jaydebkuniar c Oiakraharti, Third. 

005 Asok COuikrahnrl i. Third. 

.‘4.* 46 Man i na th a Chaknibarti. Third. 

011 Bijay hhushiwi Chakra barti, Third. 

010 Sunilkiiinar < Ointtopadhyay, Second. 

018 HouMMidracli.imlra Das. Third. 

050 Suhirkumar Das, Third. 

051 ianinKwmar Das, Third 

052 Sunitkumar Das, Third. 

.‘151 Swiwlosninjan Das, Tlnrd. 

.‘4.57 Kanaihil Das, Second. 

.‘4:58 Anilk lunar Das, Third. 

062 Manotosh DcK Third. 

065 Pnrcsehandm Deh, Third. 

072 Madhusudan Das, Second. 

.070 Ajilkumar Das, Third. 

075 llariprasad ( ’lnvkraharti, I'hird. 

077 Bansidhar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

085 Amalendubikas De, Second. 

090 Amalchandra Dhar. Second. 

092 NaroHamchandra Djmi, Third. 

095 Sam i rial Ohattopadhvay, Third. 

401 Krishnachaitanya Adhikari. Third. 

Ill Atulchandra Ghara. Second. 

412 Siidhirkumar Gangopadhyay, Second. 

410 Nityagopal Guharay, Third. 

419 Debendramith Mnklionadhyay, Third. 

424 Achintyakumar Pal. Third. 

425 Dulalkumar Pal. Second. 

426 .Tugalchandra Pandit. Third. 

127 Bha«ktikumar Hay, First. 

428 Aladhahehandra Datta. Second. 

400 Rebatimohan Datta. Third. 

401 Manoranjan Etoy, Third. 

435 Dilipkumar Pain, Second. 

406 Suhliashchandra Pnnja, Second. 

409 Batakrislma Pal, Third. 

440 Gokulchandra Nandi. Second. 

441 Narayanchandra Manna. Second. 

446 Sukumar Mitra, Second. 

449 Prfrsantakumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
452 Dulalkumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 


No., name and division. 

Maharaja Manindra Chandra College 
ROLL CAL. 

4.54 Binaykrishna Kundu, Third. 

159 Maniklal Khan, Second 

462 Tarunkumar Ghosh. Second. 

160 Pratiabkumar Ghosh, Second. 

461 Manoranjan Ghosh Second. 

465 Sandipkumur Ghosh, Third. 

466 Samarendranath Ghosh. Second. 

471 Pradipkumar Ghosh, Third. 

472 Apurbakumar Guha. Third. 

474 Jagannath Gangopatlhvay, Third. 

47G Susilkumar Mukhopadhyay. Second. 

177 SiiKantakumar Mitra, Third. 

478 Knshnakisor Mitra, First. 

480 Ranjitkuniar Hay, Third. 

482 Kasmath Datta. Third. 

480 Gaurgopal Goswami. Third. 

490 Jyotirma-y Nandi, Third. 

495 Binialkuniar Mukhopadhyay, Second 
500 Asokkumar Ghosh, Third. 

,500 Pranahendranath Gupta, Third. 

506 Anangamohan Mitra, Third. 

508 Ajaykuinar Mitra, Third. , 

509 Kart ikehandra Majmndar, Second. 

522 Anilranjan Samajdar, Second. 

520 Pahitrakuiuar Sensarma, I'hird. 

528 Mukulknshna Sikdnr, Second. 

507 Silhhadra Hakshit. Second. 

541 Narendramnlh Hay, Second. 

517 Bhaskar Hay, Third. 

549 Salil Sitiha, Second. 

550 Prasantakumar Sinha, Second. 

550 Jagadiscliindra Saha, Third. 

558 Mrnuvlkanti Haysarkar, Third. 

711 Pralnrkuniar Mandal, Second 

712 Arunkuiuar ( hakiaharti, Second. 

J 10 llanimohan Kundu, First. 

711 Asok Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

715 Somnath Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

717 Svanial Mukhopadhyay, First. 

755 Prahhaslviunar Chanda, Second. 

7.56 Sanjibkurnar Ghosh, Second. 

759 Krislinakisor Baksi, 'I'hird. 

760 D\\ ipalknslina Bliattacharyva . Second. 

761 SiMuirkuinar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

762 Nirnialendu Bhattacharyya, Second 

760 Sihapada Bhattacharyya, 'I'hird. 

761 Saiikarkumar Bhattacharyya, Second 
766 Anallinatli Basil, Second. 

781 Susiiiikumar Mitra, Second. 

7SC, Pradc/shkanti Chattopadliyay, Third. 

790 Asokkumar Do, Second. 

795 Bliujutngamolmn Ghorai. Second. 

798 Swapaiikinnar Basil, Tliird. 

799 Bat aiikiiiuar Basil, Second. 

*00 Diirlahhkuiuar Basil. Third. 

801 Rabindranath Busu, 'Pliird. 

•802 Aiaykuinar Bhattacharyya, Second. 

805 Kasidas Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

806 Alokchaml Bandy r opadli,vay r , 'I'hird. 

808 Dchaprasad Chattopadhyay, Third. 

810 Ba-siuh'h Gangopadhyay, Second 
816 Basudeh Dasgupta, Third. 

820 Mihirkaiiti Biswas, Second. 

822 Haradlian Bandyopadhyay, Second 
820 .layantakuinar Bhattacharyyai, Third. 

825 Kamales Basu. Tliird. 

826 Dipankar Bhaduri, 'I'hird. 

827 Birajkanta Bhuiyan, Third. 

801 Kamaflkumar A l anna, Third. 

807 Hanjitkumar Ghosh, Third. 

Sll Sisirkumar Das. 'I'hird. 

851 Smulkuinar Pal, Second. 

850 Sanibliiiuath Pal, Second. 

854 Pannalal Nath, Third. 

855 R'atankumar Nath, Third. 

8-59 S.varnalkumar Mukhopadliyay, 'I'hird 
861 Tapankumar Mitra, Third. 

866 Nimaichandra Mandal, Third. 

882 Dilipkumar Biswas, Second. 

886 Amalendu Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

897 Amalkumar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

899 Sachohidananda Dasgupta, Third. 
tWIO .Ta ha rial Datta, Third. 

902 Sihsankar Chaudhuri, Third. 

900 An, Jan Senrhatidhuri, Third. 

906 Mrinal Chaudhuri, Second. 

910 Nnbakumar Basu, Third. 

911 Nikhilranjan Basil, First. 

914 Malay Bhaduri, Second. 

916 Pabitrakumar Bagohi, Third. 

919 Sankn*rkumar Ghosh, Second. 

926 Tusharkanti Das. Tliird. 

900 Lakshmikanta De, Third. 

903 Debabrata Das, Third. 

937 Anilkumar De, Second. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


103 


j>akt in i 


No., name and division. 

Maharaja Manindra Chandra College 
ROLL CAL. 


No., name and division. 

Maharaja Manindra Chandra College 

ROLL UTTAR. 


(« in 

iM-J 
‘Ml 
9 | 7 > 
9l'-> 
<rd 
*.»7>2 

<>:> i 
0.V) 

90-5 

.7 

970 

979 

iMi 

os; 

(i<»7 

im^ 
111 Ilf 
lll-J.3 
1 1 128 
1 ( i: t: 1 
liuii 
]!>:’>' 
Iiriti 
1 1 1 1 <> 
in 17 

in in 
HIM 

nr»o 

Hi >7 
in:,.- 
i h:,! i 
HUM 
lltli! 

I 1.50 
I I '.I 
! 13’. 

I III 
I IIH 
I I I* 
27 19 
277»i i 
7 ‘i( » 
27.58 
27.50 
2701 
l’7 ()!.' 

;;o > 

i’7(il 

l'7hh 

1’7H7 

l’7i-- 

J7<)H 

L’771 


2738 

2?i| 


L’7'l ( i 
II ! 
1NH1 
My 
*J5| 1 1 
lNi »:> 
2m H i 

*.’8i 151 

-M-5 

l’m<; 

511x7 

um:, 

'mas 

wwo 

'•'in 

<*43 


Sundabanaa Sraman, Second. 

Tsuraprasanna Pal, Second. 

Hambhunath Pal, Second. 

.lnanabrata Sanyal, Third. 

Snntoshkumar Bhar, Third. 

Vpiykumar Bhattacharvya, Third. 
Bhabendranarayan Bhattacharyya, Second. 
Suasikumnr Bhukta, Second. 

Maiuisranjan Kunduchaudhuri, Second. 
Xnilkumar Manna, Second. 

Sundar llayinukhopadhyay, Third. 

HosihaH Sovan, Third. 

Miliirkunw Sinlia, First. 

A sokananda Thakur, Second. 

I'anchanan Sarkar, Second. 

Moiiinimohan Chukrabarti, Third. 

Kanchan Chut topadhvay, Second. 

Sivnnrk lunar Be, Second. 

Samirkuniar Das, Third. 

Dipakkuinar Basil, Third. 

Saradindu Pandit, Third.^ 

Snbhaslichandra Ray, Third. 

Asimkiimar Ray, Third. 

Tapau Rnychnudhuri, Third. 

Amaiendu Saha, Second. 

Bvnmkes Sokhar, Second. 

Ruhiukumar Basil, Second. 

Barunkuinar Gliosh, Third. 

Anilehandra Pal, Tliird. 

Praphullakumar Pin!, Third. 

Nil anjai? Saba, Third. 

Xniarendraiiatb Saba, Third. 

Debcscliandra Sarkar, Second. 

Dilipkiimar Sen, Second. 

Sankivr Sengupta, Second. 

N.ikimiI Islam, Third. 

Praxantakumur Sinlia, Second. 
K.inajilkiiinar Som, Second. 

Sankarprasad Ray, Second, 
riiavsinknina-r Gatigirparih.vay, Tliird. 
Tapasknmar Bhattaeliar.vya, Third. 
Prasantiikumar Mnnsi, Third. 

Pipakran jail Ghatak, Second. 
SiMikarprusad Adhikari, Third. 

Bimalbiluiri Basil, Third. 

A nil km nar Do, Second. 

Mibhransusckbiir Maitra, Second. 

I h ma! k anti Ghosh, Second. 

Dulalkanti Datta, Third. 

Sam irk uinar Basil, Third. 

R.ilumlriMiath Basil, Third. 

Tusliai kanti Basil, Third. 

Mil. Rafiqual Islam, Third. 

Si ikes K’ay, Second. 

Santa nu Nandan, Second. 

Phunihhiixhan Khan, Second. 
Tanmendranatli Datta , Third. 

1 1‘ rudy otk uniat* Deb, Third. 

Santa rnnjan Chukrabarti. Second. 
-Iminondranuth Biswas, Third. 
Madan^opal Ghosh, Second. 

Siikanial Chattopadhyay , Third. 

\ uiiaieliand Bandyopadh.\ay , Second. 
Kaninanidhan Ghosh, Third. 
Syanialkumar Gautam, Second. 
Niradbaran Majumdar, Third. 
Saiuhhucharan l)as. Second. 

I’ranint hannth Malaknr, Second. 

-I itcndracliandra Gupta, Second. 
Lakshmunchandra Pramanik, Third. 
Xabakiiinar Datta, Tliird. 
dairjulis Dalai, Third. 

Sankarlal Chakraharti, Third. 

Bhapihari Sasmal, Third. 

Dipankar Saha, Second. 

Santipada Ray, Third. 

8>udhirkumar Pal, Third. 
lUinendranarayan Chakraharti, Second. 
Kamalapada De, Second. 

^anioshkumar Datta, Third. 

I apaskumar Gupta, Second. 
"Mtyendranath Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
A'sitkuinar Band.vopadnyay, Second. 

^ najitkumar Chattopadhyay, Second. 

•I ay deb Chaudhuri, Second. 

'nandamohan Basil, Second. 

'bl’Pkumar Pal, Second, 
wulbaran Sinha, Third, 
dayantakumar Sen, Second. 

Jmbindanath Datta, Third. 

' ls, b*bandra Bandyopadhyay, Second, 
nadhapada Sarkar, Third. 

•V , 1 . Raychaudhuri, Second. 

Chaudhuri, Third. 

1 rad *pkumar Datta, Third. 


270 BliiuU’h Bamlyopadhya> , Second. 


ROLL CAL. F. 


83.5 Sila Basil, Third. 

}s:57 Basantika Bandyopadhyay. Second. 

8t0 Bithika Bliat tacliaiyyu, Third. 

Hll A n jah Biswas, Third. 

842 Mint Chattopadhyay, 'Third. 

843 Supai na Chattopadhyay, Second. 

841 M i mala Chattopadhyay, Second. 

8.V2 Sadhana Bandy opa<lh> ay , Third. 

87>3 Keya Band> opadh> ay, Second. 

87>< Aniali Chattopadhyay, I lin’d. 

8 ’>8 Pranati Basak, Second. 

Hot) Smut i Bhar, Third 
871 Anjali Bhauuuk, Fiist. 

87-4 Lakshimsri Chattopadhyay, Third. 

871 Priti Chattopadhyay, Third. 

870 Aparna Ba^clii, Third. 

880 Abba Bhattachary>a, Third. 

8H7> Tripti Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

013 Mridula Basil, Second. 

017 Muiia Basu, Hurd. 

010 Madhabi Biswas, Third. 

925 Prumila Bhar, Tliiid. 

920 Puruhi Burnt, Tliird. 

027 Anita- Hugcli i. Second. 

020 Reha Chattopadhyay, Third. 

033 Ira Chattopadhyay, Third. 

0.34 Rama Chattopadhyay, 'Thud. 

037 Clutra Datta, Second. 

038 Minati Ghosh, Second. 

Oil) Pratihha. Dcbi, Third. 

011 Rani De, Third. 

012 Duluti C-lmkrabarti, Third. 

951 Kanchan ( -liakrabai ti. Third. 

Ool Javasri Pas^upta, 'Third. 

OAO Chutidrulckliu Ghosh, Second. 

000 Susniita Datta, Tliird. 

903 Mira. De, Third. 

001 Madhabilnta Do, Tliird. 

072 f \ harna Ghosh, 'Thinl. 

080 Padina Chaudhuri, Second. 

007 Lila Chaudhuri, 'Third. 

1003 Surama Das, 'Tliird. 

10|7> Mumka Datta, 'Third. 

I027> Arcliana Ghosh, 'Third. 

10-50 Klinkurani Palcliaudlmri, Tliird. 

1000 Amnia Tal, Tliird. 

1007 Saiidliy a ram Nainli. Thinl. 

1071 Dehinim Mitra, Third. 

1072 Sihani Mitra, 'Third. 

1073 Krishna Majumdar, Third. 

I07H Sandhya Majumdar, Third. 

1070 Sahita Majumdar. Third. 

1081 Busan ti Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

1088 Maya Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

1080 Maiinaruiii Kundu, Third. 

1000 Syainali Kundu, Third. 

1001 Sahita Kundu, Third. 

1002 Miraram Kundu, Third. 

1003 San t i Kar, Third. 

1008 Pranati Gupta, Third. 

1100 Ratna Niyogi, Second. 

1101 Lina Mitra, Third. 

1102 Daisy Mitra, Third. 

1104 Mundira Maitra, 'Third. 

1100 Ruby Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

1100 .Iharna Ghoshal, Thinl. 

1111 lndrain Ghatak, Third. 

1114 Malabika Mukhopadliyay, Third. 

1117 Jhaina Mitra, 'iliiiil. 

1118 Suhhra Maulik, Second. 

1121 Britain Mandal, Third. 

1122 Santi Nath, Second. 

1123 It lima Ghoshal, Third. 

112-5 Madhabi Mukhopadhyay, Second 
1120 Jharna Mallik, Third. 

1132 Krishna Mitra, I (Regn. No. 22770 

Third. 

1133 Manju Guha, Third. 

1134 Syamali Gupta, Third. 

1135 Padma Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

1138 Bidyut Poddar, Third. 

1140 Bipula Gupta, Third. 

1142 Jharna Kundu, Third. 

1147 Nilima Pal, Second. 

1140 Radharani Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

1153 Bit hi Ray, Third. 

11.54 Mukti Ray, First. 

1155 Nila Ray, Third. 

1156 Ira Raychaudhuri, Second. . _ 

1158 Jayanti Rakshit (Mrs. Sarma), Third. 


ot 10-58-59) 



104 


THU CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


! Part 


No., name and division. 

Maharaja Manindra Chandra College, 
ROLL CAL. F. 


No., name and division. 

Mahisadai Raj Collego 
ROLL MAH 1. 


1 MJ1 1 T ma Kay, 'I lord. 

1102 Kalpatia Ray, Third. 

1101 Arcliana Ra.v, Third. 

1 105 Kulputm Sehamibis, Third. 

1171 Aditi Ray, Second. 

1 172 Claim Ray , Thud. 

J1H| Kalyani Ray chamlhuri, II (Rcgn. No. 1134 ol lDoO- 
00). Third. 

1 1X0 Ihirain Rayehaudhuri, Second. 

1100 Ratii Ra\, Second. 

J | !>!l M a ti |ii.si'i Sanya I , Second. 

1200 Nam lit a Ray, Third. 

1203 Kalpana Saha, Second. 

1201 Mmaiani Saha, Second. 

1213 A him Saha, 'Hurd. 

12! A R<ba Seth, Thud 
1220 Alo Saikai, Third. 

1 235 Mmati Sin , Thud. 

1230 \ ihharani I hakui , Second. 

1210 -J hai ii;< Sd, Thu <1. 

1218 I )i pah Xinha, 'Ihiid. 

12 Mnlahika Sinha. Fiist. 

J25I Manpda Sinha, Think 
1001 Krishna Ghosh, Second. 

1005 Pratibha kahi. Sccoml. 

1000 Dijiti Ihunk, Third. 

200 1 A m iv. i Basak, Second 
T/^2 Saint a ( dial lop.ulhyin , Third. 

358 1 Amina ( 'li 1 1 ♦ opadh\ ay , Second. 

3">xo Ram ( ’ha 1 1 opadh> ay , 'Third. 

3 *>00 Gluti.i Ray, Second. 

350 1 Anpdi Dnsgupta (Mrs Ray), Second. 

.T>02 Smgdlia Ghosh, 'Third. 

2507 Hihharam Saikar Thud. 

2001 Asrukana Rakxhit, Second. 

2002 Mal.it it ani Rah Third. 

2()05 Nihlni Datta (Mis. Kudia), Third. 

2000 Mira Da.s, Second. 

2007 Sadhana ( 'haiidluu i. Tlnrd. 

2000 M imu ani Bhattaeharyyu, Thud. 

2012 (iita M ukhopadliMiy, Third. 

2022 A ii | u Bandy opadhya.v, Third. 

2028 Anpili Guhathakurta, 'Third. 

2022 Sila Sill, 'Third. 

5852 Anpdi IM iikhopadh.\ ay , Third. 

5852 Sima Basil, Third. 

Non-collegiate Students, Maharaja Manindra Chandra 
College. 

ROLL CAL. N. 

202 Sanatkumai Ghosh. 'Third. 

202 Samainalh Guha. Second. 

20 1 vSiMieiidramoh.ui Ba\ ehamlhnri, 'Thud. 

Mahisadai Raj College 

ROLL MAHI. 

1 Xmlhaian Das ThirW. 

2 Saf hmand. in Adlnkari, 'Thud. 

2 Dt'hsadhan Baitalik 'Ihiid. 

-I Ranipaiia Beta, 'Thud. 

5 Sanatkmnar Bhati acharvya, 'Third. 

O Sit»iial.li Das, Second. 

7 Bliinic hai in (tin. Second. 

0 l*i ahodhkumar -I.iii.t, Thiid 
12 Tnsankukiiniar Pah Second. 

12 Siihhashchandra Seth, Sccornl. 

II Miitvunpiy Dalla, Thud. 

15 Siikumar Mandal, Second. 

10 1 1 .i i cschandra Bhuiyan, Second. 

IS \ swi n i k ii in a i Sahn, Third. 

10 Raiihlochan Misra, First. 

2l 1 B.mcswai .lana Second. 

21 A okkumai Boia, First.. 

21 Bipiy Ruwnnha patra, Second 
25 A i Oku mar Mai, Third. 

20 A< hintyakuniar Manna, Third. 

27 \ahakanta Misia, Second. 

28 Manoranian Pnh Third. 

20 Autkumar Path Second. 

30 Manoianpin Pradhan, Third. 

21 Guurhnri Pranianik, Second. 

32 Gajemli sinath Pranianik, Third. 

33 Satyanarayan Samanta, Second. 

31 Pnnchan.m .Tana, Second. 

35 Pasupati Maiti, Third. 

37 Niranjan Sanianla, First. 

38 Prahhntkumar Midva, Third. 

41 Matihil Bera, Third. 

42 Prannhkninar Bera, 'Third. 

43 dliittarnnian Jana, Third. 

41 Dobendranath Saxmah Third. 

45 Anantakuniar Sahn, Second 

46 Nagendranath Samanta, Third. 

47 Mrigendranath Panda, Third. 


48 Aknlcnduktimar Mandal, Third. 

10 Ksrlipada Maiti, 'Third. 

.52 Subhaslichandra Gayen, Second. 

5-1 J)ehahrata Basil, Second. 

57 Madaiunolian Karan, Second. 

58 Ranajitki islma Jlina, Third. 

50 Ardderidusokhar Gin, Third. 

02 Sk Fazlul Haquo, Third. 

03 Diirlahhchandra Sahu, Second. 

0-1 Dharrnadas Pradhan, Third. 

05 Jagadischandra Patra. Second. 

00 Bhimaclmran Patra, Second. 

07 Bansidhar Parya, Third. 

08 Aniruddha Panda, Third. 

71 Niranjankiunur Mandal, Third. 

72 Pranabkumar Maiti, Second. 

74 Basudeh Maiti, 'Third. 

75 Alokuaiii Maiti, St‘con<|. 

82 Sukhamny Dhar, 'Third. 

83 Nit \ ananda J>as, Third. 

02 Ramhari Raua, Third. 

03 Bidhiibliuslian Bhuiyan, Second. 

01 Ranajitkumar Samanta, Third. 

05 Saktipada Betal, Third. 

00 Purnachaudra Mai, J liird. 

07 Mauoraiijan Si, Second. 

100 Ramcswai Chaki aharti, Third. 

(01 Pasiipat icharan Bans a, 'Third. 

102 Pi lthwn an pin Samanta, Second. 

103 I’adiualochuii Samanta, Lliird. 

110 Sudhamusokhur Map, Third. 

I 12 Kcnntum Jana. Sccoml. 

I 15 Sukumar Ghorai, 'J'hird. 

I It) kiMti'iiiiolinn Das, Second. 

I 10 Suharicliaran Bora, Second. 

120 Siuyyakiiinar Bhaumik, Second. 

121 Bharatchamli a Khatun, Third. 

122 Banamali Sinha, 'Third. 

123 Gaurlmri Sahu, 'Third. 

121 Gaiirknsluia Samanta, 'J’hird. 

125 Sailcndratiath Ray, 'Third. 

127 ISIadhiiMidau Pal, Third. 

130 ( ’hittaranjan Maiti, 'Third. 

132 'I iisha rkatit i Jana, 'J’hird. 

133 Utpalkuiuar Das, Third. 

135 Nai aynuchaudra Maiti, Second. 

138 Sk. Saul ill Islam, 'Third. 

1 10 Sk. Abdul Barck, 'Third. 

1 12 Miranjankumar Sen, 'Third. 

I 13 Bandhaian Sarkar. 'Third. 

1 II Paiichanan Sana, Third. 

1 10 Manoi anjan Ray, Second. 

I 18 Ramchandra Patraharman, Third. 

152 Banahihan Mandal, Third. 

15. Piilinhelian Maiti, Third. 

151 Ppushkanti Jana, 'Third. 

I .0 ( * ana pat i Jana, TJiiril. 

I 58 Katiailal Das, 'Tliinl. 

B. I \idkumar Bcia, 'Third. 

105 Buiayhhu.sliaii Barman, Third. 

100 kakshmaiichandra Bhaumik, Second. 

107 M .idnnmohau Gayen, 'Third. 

100 Aialnnda Sanlra. Second. 

172 Anilkumar Mandal, Third. 

177 Bilwapada Das, Second. 

178 'Tapatuiath Bora, 'Third. 

170 Annndamolian Bcra, Thud 

180 Gobmdaprasad Barai, Third. 

1 8 1 Snbha.shcliandra Patra, Second. 

182 Bhabadisehnmlra Maji, Third. 

183 Rabindranath Maiti, Second. 

185 Durgapada Dindn, Third. 

180 Ansusekhar Bag, Second. 

187 Rabindranath Achai.vya, 'Third. 

188 llaripada Santra, 'Third. 

ISO Sachinaudan Sana, Second. 

100 Kalipada Sahu, Second. 

101 Sukumar Ray, Third. 

105 llaripada Kuila, Third. 

100 Chittaranjan Khatua. Third. 

108 Kshitischandi a Kamila, Third. 

200 Nikhilkuinar Das, Third. 

208 Sasadhnr Chaule, Second. 

210 Dipenkumar Bej, Second. 

211 Paritoshkumar Bera, Third. 

212 Benimadhab Bera, Second. 

213 Bimalchandra Bag, Third. 

216 Naromlranath Mandal, Second. 

218 Phanindranath Dinda, Third. 

ROLL MAHI. F. 

6 Madhuhi Pahari, Third. 

II Minati Basil, Second. 

12 Rama Das, Third. 

14 Manasi Pradhan, Third. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


105 


Nd., name and division. 

M*HUi College 

ROLL MAL. 

\tA Entaj Ali, Second. 

Sibsankar Pande, Third. 

B.irischandra Das, Second. 
a hdul Hamid, Second. 

Bjrcndrak uinar Sarkar, Third. 

«*iikhendu Kundu, Third. 

Ainnlkumar Mallik, Third. 

Nannuddin Ahmed, Second. 

Mtl Finish, Third. 

^ Naimuddin, Third 
Mathuranath Pal, Third. 

Md Saiful Alam, Second, 
jj.ila Sunileskumar Sinha, Third. 
Ndtunjaranjan Barman, Third. 

Jaytosh Bandyopadhyay, Second. 
Mrinalkanti Sinha, Third. 

Mfilininmad Saifnddin Second. 
Naiajanchandra Das, Tliird. 
Habindranath Biswas, Second^ 

Md Jiaullah, First. 

Paritoshkumar Chakrabarti, Second. 
Hathindi anarayan Banik, Third. 
Madanlall Agarwala, Second. 

Abdul Kabir Dewan, First. 

Santarkumar Misra, Second. 
Saurendrauath Das, Second. 

Punka j Sarkar, Second. 

Phanibhusban Das, Third. 

Hi rend ran ath Poddar, Second. 
Karunakanta Ray, Second. 
lUmkinkar Kundu, Second. 

Anjankumar Das, Second. 

Sunilkumar Das, Third. 

Asjtkumar Sinha, Third. 

Santoshkumar Das, Third. 

Hikaschundra Majumdar, Third. 
Siihrutakumar Chaudhuri, First. 
SvHinalkmnar Chaudhuri, Second. 
SwdhHTisujyoti Ray, Second. 

Mnnalkanti Ghosh, Second. 
Parthasarathi Majumdar, Second. 
Ilutilitrhandni Mandal, Third. 
Hmmnsukumar Poddar, Second. 
Swaininath Ram, Second. 

•Tnnnendrannth Misra, Third. 

Pwijupada Das, Second. 

Banknnchandra Misra, Third. 

Panchannn Misra, Second. 

Md. Ainul Hoque, Second. 

Buddhu Sheikh, Second. 

Zohui Ahmed, Third. 

Sundchandra Niyogi, Third. 

Hi males Ray, Third. 

Makhul Hosaiti Ohaudhuri, Third. 
Atmdranath Das, Second. 
Alumlranarn.van (Ohaudhuri, 'third. 
Giasuddin Ahamed, Third. 

Md Anisur Rohaman, Swond. 

Md. Voiisof Ali, Third. 

Tndihbihari Gupta, Third. 
I'laphullakumar Nandi, Second. 

Md Afsar Hossain, Third. 

A eh Inn Hossain, Third, 
dud h u pal Mandal, Third. 

Aladanmohan Sinha, r rhird. 

Taslimuddin, Third. 

Basudeh Basil, Third. 

‘Sisirk i! msir Samaddar, Third. 

Bd ask u mar Gupta, Third. 

Arahindu Majumdar, Third. 
Kumarisehandra Sarkar, Second 
Aaicndranath Pal, Second. 

> d Khorshed Ali, Third. 

Jjd Abdus Sattar, Third. 

Winirehandra Misra, Second. 

• ayamakriNhnH u anc jy 0 padhyay Third. 
1 tpalkumar Majumdar, First. 


ROLL MAL. F. 

L'*l»ut i Khan, First. 

Janiahj Palchaudhuri, First. 
n « Ghoahal, First. 

Second. 

^adakshmi Das, Third. 

Sarkar, Second. 
Am! 1S,a J a «’ Second. 

It? v* ^ hatun > First. 

Klimiu > Second. 

JuthJil A g arwala > Third, 
ffi ^/andi, Second. 

Serf. *.- Second. 


^Kundu’ x^ 80 - I * 0 ' 18088 of »»■«»» Second. 


No., name and division. 

Malda Collage 

ROLL MAL. F. 

42 Banasri Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

44 Anjali Das, I (Regn. Ko. 31172 of 1957-68), Third. 
46 Sephalirani DaR, Second. 

54 Rekha Sarkhel, Second. 

55 Sunanda Sen, Second. 

56 Kalyani Debi, Second. 

58 Manjulika Mukhopadhyay, Second. 


Non-oollegiate Student, Malda Collage 
ROLL MAL. F.N. 

28 Mira Bhattacharyya , Third. 


Mldnapur College 
ROLL MID. 

2 Amulyacharan I)e, Third. 

3 Anandaprakas Guhathakurta, Third. 

4 Arunabha Datta, Second. 

5 Balaichandrn Ghosh, Third. 

6 Phanindranatli Chattopadhyay, Third. 

7 Priyaranjan De, Third. 

9 Samarendrabijay Misra, Second. 

10 Sasankasekhar Sinhamahapatra, Second. 

11 Syanialkumar Datta, Third. 

12 Amiyakumar Panda, Second. 

13 Arabinda Maiti, Third. 

14 Asitranjan Chakrabarti, Third. 

15 Asokkumar Sil, Second. 

17 Gaurhari Santra, Second. 

20 Niyatiranjan Panda, Third. 

21 Pradoahkumar Bandyopadhyay, First. 

23 Sanjit>kumar Misra, Second. 

25 Ajitkumai Sinha, Second. 

26 Arjunkumar Rajak, Third. 

30 Asokkumar Maiti, Third. 

35 Himulanandu Mandal, Third. 

36 Biswannlh Dc, Second. 

39 Chittaranjan Ohaudhuri, Third. 

40 Debalkumar Blut/t acharyya, Third. 

43 Gaurkrishna Giri, Third. 

51 Manikprasad Bhakat, Second. 

.53 Milankumar Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

55 Mrigendranath Chakrabarti, Second. 

57 Nalinchand Datta, Second. 

62 Paresnath Rudra, Third. 

(>3 Parthasarathi Datta, Third. 

04 Prabhaschandra Basil, Second. 

65 Prahhatkumar Santra, Second. 

66 Rabindrakumar Chabri, Second. 

70 Ramranjan Ooswami, Third. 

76 Ruhhashchandra Dinda, Third. 

77 Suhodhchandra Ghosh. Third. 

79 Syatnsundar Das, Second. 

81 Radhaballabh Ray, vSecond. 

82 Saik Tsrail, Second. 

83 Bijaykrishna Khatua, Third. 

81 Dwijapada Mahanti, First. 

87 Sankarprasad Sinhasahasray , Second. 

88 Mukulranjan Ray, Second. 

89 Sasankasekhar Sa manta, 'third 

90 Medinisankar Ohaudhuri. Second. 

91 Smritikumar Chattopadhyay, Second. 

92 R.ambhadra Mukhopadhyay, First. 

93 Akhilehandrn Bhauinik, Third. 

95 Biswanatli Samanta, Seeond. 

96 Gaurhari Chattopadhyay, Thir<l. 

97 Asok Basil, Seeond. 

98 Bimalkumar Mukhopadhyay, Seeond. 

99 Alakananda Bhauinik, Second. 

1(K) Kanailal Das, Seeond. 

101 Madhiisudan Pahari, First. 

103 Kalyankumar Datta, Third. 

104 Dilipkumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

107 Ratnnehandra Mahapatra, Second. 

108 Ramkinkar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

110 Nakuleswar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

111 Niranjsn Bhuiyan, Second. 

112 Rakhahari Karan, Second. 

113 Sainarendranath Adhikari, Third. 

116 Bijaykumar Bhakta, Second. 

120 Narahari Nayak, Third. 

123 Paresnath Pramanik, Third. 

126 Ramsankar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

130 Subhashchandra Mahis, Third. 

132 Sudhansusekhar Bhuiyan, Third. 

133 Tarunkumar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

136 Amarendranath Bhattacharyya, Second. 


ROLL A8AN. 

166 Asok Datta, First. 



1 Gita Chattopadhyay, Third. 

8 Bharati Chakrabarii, Second. 

6 Dipti Ray, Second. 

8 Sudeshna Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

9 Anjana Bhattacharyya, Third. 

12 Gita Som, Third. 

16 Pratima Nag, Third. 

18 Sarajju Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

19 Aloka Chaudhuri, Third, 

20 Antibha Ghosh, Third. 

22 Chitra Pratihar, Third. 

24 Jayasri Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

26 Kanan Bandyopadhyay. Sewnd. 
30 Sila Sinha, Second. 

32 Tara Misra, Third 

33 Chitra Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

34 Ratna Chaudhuri, First. 


Midnapore Women's Collage 
ROLL MID. F. 

36 Maitreyi Basu, Third. 

36 Sankari Rakshit, Third. 

37 Niyati Maiti, Third. 

38 Dipti Mahapatra, Second. 

39 Jaba Basuray, Second. 

40 Kalpana Jana, Third. 

41 Sandhya Mahapatra, Third. 

42 Anima Ray, Third. 

44 Anjali Sen, Second. 

46 Uma Majumdar, Second. 

46 Masuda Begum, First. 

47 Kalpana Kundu, Second. 

49 Anita Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

60 Bakulrani Ray, Third. 

61 Sephali Pal, Third. 

66 Nirmala Ray. Third. 

57 Bina Das, Third. 

69 Kanchan Sen, Third. 

61 Sandhya Ray, Third. 

62 Santi Chakladar, Second. 

63 Bithika Ray, Third. 

64 Basanti Basu, Third. 

65 Sumitra Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

67 Pratima Dhara, Third. 

68 Bibharani Sarkar, Second. 

69 Archana Ray, 11 (Regn. No. 849 of 1969-60), Third. 

71 Binapani Chakrabarii. Third. 

72 Abharani Jana, Second. 

76 Krishna Basu, Third. 


ROLL JHAR. F. 

30 Archana Ray, I (Regn. No. 848 of 1969-60), First. 


ROLL KRI. F. 

84 Tusharkana Bhattacharyya, Second. 


Muralidhar Girls' College 
ROLL CAL. F. 

2069 Rina Chanda, Third. 

2072 Mira Chakrabarii, II (Regn. No. 14106 of 1968-69), 
Third. 

2078 Manju Basak, Second. 

2080 Hena Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

2084 Rama Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

2091 Pushpa Basu, Third. 

2092 Rama Basil, Second. 

2098 Priti Biswas, Third. 

2102 Dipali Chakrabarti, Third. 

2106 Lekba Chakrabarti, Third. 

2113 Chhabi Datta, Third. 

2116 Ila Datta, Third. 

2117 Sipra Biswas, 1 (Regn No. 24989 of 1958-69), Third. 

2123 Maniulika Datta, Third. 

2124 Sumitra Chaudhuri, Third. 

2126 Gauri Basu, First. 

2126 Arundhati Bhattacharyya, First. 

2127 Dipti Bhaduri. Third. 

2129 Maya Aich, Third. 

2131 Anjali Basu, Second. 

2132 Sahana Basu, Third. 

2135 Arati Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

2137 Biiali Chattopadhyay, Third. 

2138 Bulbul Bhattacharyya, Second. 

2140 Samap* Chakrabarti, TTiird. 


2146 Jayasri Bhattacharyya, Second. 

2147 Mahamaya Chakrabarti, Third. 

2148 Hasi Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

2149 Annapurna Chaudhuri, Third. 

2150 Rebarani Chaudhuri, Third. 

2151 Minati Ohattopedhyay, Third. 

2162 Sibani Basu, Third. 

2153 Kaberi Bisi, Second. 

2156 Maya Bhattacharyya, Second 
2158 Chhabi Bhattacharyya. Third. 

2160 Manju sri Datta, Third. 

2162 Bandana Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

2163 Pranata Basil. Second. 

2164 Bandana Basu, First. 

2165 Sima Datta, Second. 

2166 Dipali Datta, Third 

2168 Namita Mukhopadhyay. T (Regn. No. 251., 7 lo 

59), Third. 

2170 Kalpana Mukhopadhyay, Third 
2174 Sunita Mitra, Third. 

2181 Mina Kunduchaudhuri, Third. 

2188 Subhra Ghoshdastidar, Third. 

2191 Jharna Ghosh, Second. 

2192 Chhaya Ghosh, II (Regn. No. 25099 oi lO.vt;, 

Second. 

2200 Mili Deb, Third. 

2203 Sabita De, Third. 

2205 Sipra Dasgupta, Third. 

2213 Rama Dattaray, Third. 

2217 Krishna Lahiri, Third. 

2220 Oargi Gangopadhyay, Third. 

2221 Reba De, First. 

2223 Maya Ghosh, Third. 

2225 Sila Guha, Third. 

2226 Anjali Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

2229 Sima Das, Second. 

2236 Gita Ghosh, Second. 

2237 Hena Ghosh, Third. 

2238 Bandana Mitra, Third 
2240 Keka Goswami, Second. 

2246 Anjali De, Second. 

2250 Dipti Das. Second 

2252 Biiali Lahiri, Third. 

2253 Banani Ghosh, Second 

2254 Sabita Ghosh, T (Begn Nn 25108 M 

Second. 

2255 Man a si Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

2256 Kanan Dasgupta, Third. 

2257 Manju De, Second. 

2260 Minakshi Mukhopadhyay, Second 

2261 Dhira Mitra, Second. 

2264 Tin Ghosh, Second. 

2269 Dipti Guha, Third. 

2270 Tapati Chakrabarti, Second. 

2275 Purabi Lahiri, Third. 

2276 Prabliati Majumdar, Third. 

2277 Archana Rayehaudhuri, Third 

2278 Kalpana Chattopadhyay, Third. 

2282 Dipali Chandra. Third. 

2283 Gauri Das, Third. 

2286 Satyabnti Mukhopadhyay, Second 

2290 Mina Ray, Second. 

2291 Jyotsna Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

2296 Sanghamitra Rav, Third. 

2298 Mira Saha, Third. 

2301 Namita Rayehaudhuri, Third. 

2302 Jut-hika Rayehaudhuri, Third. 

2308 Padma Ray, Second. 

2311 Rekha Pal, Second. 

2314 Jayasri Ray, Second. 

2315 Gita Pal, Third. 

2325 Sikha Dasgupta, Third. 

2326 Subrata Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

2329 Apama Ray, Second. 

2331 Kanika Singhi. Second, 

2334 Asa Sen, Third. 

2336 Sabita Sur, Third. 

2336 Fva Sengpta, Third. 

2338 Ohandana Ren, Third. lrt . c 

2339 Dipti Sengupta, T (Regn. No. 25220 <•! 

Third. 

2340 Maniulika Sarkar, Second. 

2341 Bandana Samanta, Third. 

2342 TTma Sengupta, Second. 

2317 Supriya Sengupta, Third. 

2355 Mamata Sen, Third. 

2363 Maya Sengupta, Second. 

2368 Rekha Basu, Second. 

2370 . Gopa Basu, Second. 

2371 Shelley De, Tliird. 

2372 Gitika Chakrabarti, Third. 

2373 Gita Datta, Third. 

2375 Mira Biswas, Third. 

2376 Putul Dm, Third. 

2880 Saraita Das, Second. 



Paiit rB] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


107 


No., name and division. 

Mnralltfhar Qirfr Conaga. 

ROLL CAL. F. 

Debi Bardhan, Second. 

‘J388 Bela Patta, Second. 

5*11*3 Sankari Bhattacharyya, Tliird 
2 j()l Jharna Chakrabarti, Third. 

2401 Archana Chaudhtiri, Third. 

.}40:. Jolly Chaudhun, Third. 

2409 Rita Dasgupta, Third. 

21)0 Sipra Dasgupta. Third. 

211.4 Parbati Patta, Third. 

2420 Smriti Gangopadhyay, 'third. 

242H Reba Majumdar, Third. 

2120 Mira Ghosh, II (Regn. No. 2736 
Third. 

440 Chhaya Kuhiraj. Second 

2441 Bharati Majumdar, Third. 

2145 Pipnli Majumdar, Third 
2140 Mmati Majumdai , Thud 

2439 Sipra De, Third. 

2440 Sephali Dhar, Third 

2442 Anjali Ghosh, Thiid 
2444 Malina Ghosh, Third. 

2448 Rekha Ghosh, Third. 

2449 Sukla Ghosh, Third. 

2450 Meghamala Guha, Tliird. 

2452 Minati Goswami, .Second. 

2454 Hasi Hore, Third. 

2-102 Sanjukta Mitra, Third. 

2465 Nandita Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

2407 A rati Pal, 'third. 

2475 Pratibha Saha, Third. 

24 SO Bithika Sin ha, Third. 

24SJ Rama Ohattopadhyay, Second. 

21 SJ Minati Thakur, Third. 

2 1S5 Gauri Bhaumik, Second. 

21S7 Anjali Pas, Third. 

2 INS Tra Roy, Second. 

2190 Nibcdita Haral, Third. 

2197 Reba Ray, Third. 

2500 Mill Bhattacharyya, Third. 

2.501 Nandita Sen, Second 

2502 Mnnjusri Kenguptii, Third. 

2501 Suk la Rav, Third. 

2,505 Marnata Sanati, Third. 

440K Ranihhaharu Chakrabarti. Third. 

"•411 Sikla Raychaudhuri, Third. 

9414 Pi pika Chakrabarti, Second 
9921 Namita Chakrabarti, Second. 

‘922 Sipra Ghosh, Second 
9425 Reba Mitra, Third. 

9920 Dipa Sen, Third. 

9927 Aruim Basu, Third. 

•429 M an j ii la Cliaudhuri, Third. 

9940 Sandhya Chakraluirti, Third. 

4444 Manjari Raymukhopadhvav, Third. 
Santi Bhatt acharyy a , Second. 

Anjali Dasgupta, Third. 

; ,V slta Bhattacharyya, Third. 

Hama Mandal, Third. 

*l«.vnnti Bhattacharyya., Second 
9404 Akhiarun Nessa, Sworn! . 

:!;!!!' j™ Karmakar, Third. 

44KO JJ an B™ Bhattacharyyii, third 

s S a S n Chakrabarti, Third. 

;U70 Polly pas. Third. 

1 Basanti Patta, Third. 

u 1 ^ o ag ’ Third - 

t \!" ftengupta, Third. 

Bandyopadhyay, Thud. 

& 1 * 11 Nf,nrli ‘ Third. 
m £J u,troyi ‘ S ™> Third. 

: • v, Manjula Basu, Second. 

9995 t m i k /‘ Baral > Third. 

44^; w a bhattacharyya , Third. 

94(K) nft'I" p bhattarhai^>ya. Second. 

4405 !| Bhatt acharyy a, Third. 

4414 ( ^‘ ltlo V adhvay ’ Third. 

4-1)7 t», Chinidhuri, Third. 

:i {'"jnna Das, Third. 

4419 i Us ^ a Da *, Third. 

542] Rind y ^ Das ’ Third - 
5427 dasgupta, Third. 

4144 Se n g«Pta, Third. 

34% A r r a „ Sarka r, Third. 

4147 d rat !. * s «?n, Third. 

4448 Sen K»Pta, Third. 

4159 M?/» a Sen # llpta » Second. 

' Mi7 Heml«^ n S& ud J ,uri ' Second. 

as v-SV: 

1*8 SS^'SEL. s«.Trf. 

*» ^dSSWS!^ 


1958-59), 


No., name and division. 

Murattdttar Girls* CoR#*t. 
ROLL CAL. F. 

4472 t -hi tra Gangopadhyay, Third. 

5477 Manjusri Ghosh, Second. 

5470 Rum a Ghosh, Third. 

11481 Aruna Guha, Third. 

4485 Manika Gupta, Third. 

3486 Pratima Goswami, Second. 

5402 Swati Dasgupta, Third. 

3301 Sukla Patta, Second. 

Ii502 Rekha Dasgupta, Second. 

3*509 Jayasri Mukhopadhyay. Third 
3511 Knshna Mukhopadhyay , Third. 

3515 Sunanda Mukhopadhyay, 'third. 
5514 Abba Pal, Second. 

•3*524 Sathi Ray, Third 
3526 Asima Saha, Third. 

3533 Smriti Ray. Second 

3534 Mom Raychaudhuri, Second. 

3539 Krishna Ray, Second. 

3541 Gauri Raychaudhuri, Third. 

3551 Anjali Saha. Second. 

4567 Parnika Maitra, Third. 

3574 Si la Majumdar, Third. 

3576 Kla Maitra, Second. 

3579 Sunanda Lahiri, Second. 


Navadwip Vidyasagar Collage 

ROLL NABA. 

2 Anilkumar Pas, Second. 

4 Rakhalchandra Poddar, Third. 

0 Ganeschandra Pal, Second. 

U Anandakumar Patta, I'hird. 

14 liokendrachundru Chakrabarti, First. 
14 Baiaram Ghosh, Second. 

21 Debabrata Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

22 Sukuinar Ghoshal, Third! 

23 Gopcswat Pal, Second. 

25 Kunilkumar Naskar, Third 
27 Krishna pada Biswas, Second. 

31 Suba ichandra Sark nr. Third 
49 Byomke.s (Chakrabarti, Third. 

•59 Biriwanath Gum, Third. 

54 Krishnanath Goswami, 'I'hird. 

57 Bankasyam Kundu, 'third. 

58 Haraprasad Ghoshal, Second. 

65 Satyendranath Saha, Second. 

/5 Guriendrakumar Saha, First. 

78 Niimnlal Saha, First. 

80 Bnnalkanti Patta, Third. 

82 Atuulburan Saha, Second. 

92 Manmiohan Mandal, Second. 

105 Susilkumiir Mandal, I'hird. 

106 Niiuaichandra Ghosh, Second. 

Ill Nazal Hague Mallik, 'Third. 

s *t'y< ?,, dranath Biswas, Thir<l. 

122 Debipraand Rudra, Second. 

132 Parimnlkumai Ghosh, Third 
144 Gaurgopal Haidar, Third. 

14*5 As u tosh Ghosh, 'third. 

163 Sitanath Sinharay, Third 

164 BrajagopaJ Saha,' Third. 

168 Satyendranath Chakrabarti, 'thud 
184 Cauigopal Karmokar, 'Third. 

191 Rabindranath Pal, Third. 

198 Umasankar Aditya, Second. 


ROLL NABA. F. 

1 Rekha Chanda, First. 

4 Nilima Sanya I . lirst. 

5 Binita Kundu, Second. 

6 Gauri Debi, Second. 

7 Jharna Gupta, Fiist. 

8 Priti Ray, Second. 

10 Anima Biswas, Third. 

16 Niliniarani Chaudhun, Third. 

17 Chitralekha Saha, Third. 

21 Sipra Sen, Third. 

27 Mira Bhnumik, 'third. 

29 Jogamaya Sidhanta, Third. 

34 Mira Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

37 Bftsanti Patta, Second. 

43 Manisha Ohattopadhyay, Third. 
46 Anjali Goswami, Third! 

61 Krishna Ohattopadhyay, Second. 
64 Renuka Saha, Third. 

69 tChampak Goswami, Third. 

70 Padma Saha, Third. 
n N««i Ghosh, Third. 


106 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


[Paht ib 


No., name and division. 

Non-oollegtate Students, Nabadwlp Vltfyasagar Collage 

ROLL NASA. N. 

9 Abanunohan Datta, Third. 

10 Debkumar Mandal, Third. 

12 Bimalkumar Gangopadhyay, Second. 

Id Mohanchandra Ghosh, Third. 

14 Arabindunath Das, Third. 

Nabagram Hiraial Pal College 

ROLL NABAGRAM. 

4 Saroikumnr Das, Third, 

8 Pradipkumai Chattopadhyay. Third. 

10 Badrinarayan Chattopadhvav, Third 
12 Nazimuddin Mallik, Third 
Id Dihpkumar Das, Thud. 

16 Brindabanehandta Ghosh, Third. 

18 Tusharkanti Das, Third. 

29 Pramodchandra Biswas, Third 
d0 Nandadulal Chattopadhyay, Third, 
dl daydcb Ghosh, Third. 

35 Gobindachandra Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

37 Amiyakumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

40 Pasupati Manna, Third. 

41 Asokkumar Ghosh, Third. 

44 Nabftkumur Ghosh, Second. 

4 5 T'usharkanti Saha, Third. 

48 Jitendranath Mallik, Third. 

54 Anandakumar Nandi, .Second. 

50 Maniklal Maji, Third. 

57 Gopalchandra Majurmlar, Second. 

58 Gopalchandra Nandan, Third. 

59 Kasinatli Ghosh, Third. 

72 Sarasikuinar Maiti, T’hird. 

73 Pratapranjan Majra, Second. 

76 Banjankumar Char, Third. 

79 Pranabkumar Bliar, Socoiwl. 

80 Asifkunutr Pal, Third. 

81 Ajayktunar Pal, Third. 

86 Dukarilal Baksi, T'hird. 

89 Kamalkutnar Guharay, Third. 

94 SihHankar Manila, Third. 

96 .1 agatkumur Bandyopadhyay, Thud. 

97 Kalyankumar Mitra, Third. 

98 Mrinalkanii Dat.tagupta, Third. 

104 Kartikchnndra Das, Third. 

109 Nirendu Chakrabarti, Second. 

115 Pantosh Hasu, Third. 

122 Ranujitkurmu Batidyopadhyay, Third. 

129 Bhanudeb Laha, T'hird. 

134 Ramcndraprasad Basil, Third. 

136 Siteschandra Bhat tueharyya. Third. 

137 Bimalkumar Pal, Second. 

147 Nakulcswar Chakrabarlithakur, Second. 

149 Gaurischandra Chakra ha rti, Second. 

150 Pariinalkumar Mukhopadhyay, First. 

151 Panchanan Das, Second. 

153 Dipak Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

154 Jitendranath Mukliopadliyay, Third. 

150 Sukdeh Ua.v. Thir<l. 

157 Susilranjaii Pal, Second. 

158 Nirmalendu Pali, Third. 

159 ( 'hamlranath (Tiattopadhyav , Second 
161 Tapaskumar Datta, Second. 

169 Sura^ijan Ghoshalchaudhuri . Second. 

171 Sanatan Si, Second. 

172 Dchdns Chakrabarti, Second. 

IH4 Barcndranatli Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

187 Sanntkuinar Hasu, Third. 

188 Anathkutnar Pachlial, S«H*ond. 

190 Sasankasckhar Datta, Thir<l. 

192 Praiittbkumar Naha, Third. 

196 Md. Kkramul Haq f Second. 

198 Benubhushan Chakrabarti, Secoml. 

200 Anandakumar Das, Second. 

202 Prahhatkuinar Basil, Third. 

203 Phanigopal Majurmlar, Second. 

204 Apurhakumar Sengupta, Third. 

205 Hiraial Das, Third. 

207 Satiranjan Das, Second. 

209 Nandagopal Majumdur, Second. 

210 Sisirranjan Dasgupta, Second. 

211 Gaurisankar Ghosh, Second. 

212 Jayantakumar Datta, Second. 

214 Rabindranath Dp, Third. 

217 Pranabkumar Sinharay, Third. 

218 Kanina th Kole, Second. 

219 Ramesehnndra Biswas, Third. 


ROLL NABAGRAM F. 

2 Samita Chattopadhyay, Third. 

9 Purnima Chattopadhyay, Third. 

10 Geuri Datta, Second. 

11 Gita Chattopadhyay, Third: # 

12 Abha Bandyopadhyay (Mrs. Mukhopadhyay), Third. 


No., name and division. 

Nabagram Hiraial Pal Ootiege 

ROLL NABAGRAM F. 

19 Rcba Ambuli, Second. 

21 Gita Dasgunta, Second. 

23 Dipali Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

28 Minakshi Nag, Third. 

30 Chinn Das, Third. 

31 Sunanda Senguptu, Second. 

33 Bithika Chakrabarti, Second. 

37 Sobha Das. Second. 

39 Bithika Mukhopadhyay, Second 
44 Guyatri Dasgupta, Second. 

46 Prabha Bhattacharvya , First. 

47 Indira Chakrabarti, First. 

48 Purahi Kar, First 

50 Mira De, Thirrl. 

51 Dakshmi Ghosh, Second. , 

52 Sadhana Bhattacharyya, Third. 

53 Annapurna Sengupta, Second. 

54 Sankari Ray, Second. 

55 Prat.ima Bhatta, First. 


Naihati Rishl Banklmohandra Coliaga 
ROLL NAI. 

1 Kai tikchandra Das, Third. 

2 Abhaykumar Biswas, Third. 

6 Santimay Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

9 Pelab Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

11 Prahhatkuinar Bhattacharyya, Second. 

15 Manindraehandra Das, Third. 

16 Manabendra Das, Third. 

20 Arunkumar Chakrabarti, Second. 

21 Diptendu Chakrabarti, Third. 

28 Santipada Chakiaharti, Second. 

30 Dipak Chakrabarti, Thud. 

31 Anutosh (tiattopadhyav, Third . 

.‘10 Sihapadn Chat topadhva.v, Third. 

37 Subunalchnndra Chattopadhyay , Second. 

38 Mihtrkiuuar Chattopadh.\ ay , Third. 

39 Dilipkuniar C'hattopadh.N ay, Third. 

10 Sisirkumar Chaudhun, Third. 

43 Bholanath Das, Third. 

Hi Amalkumar Biswas, Second 
53 llcmsankar Bhatt.mhary.VH, First. 

51 Santoslikumar Bhaumik, Second. 

55 Dipakkumar Bhaumik. Second. 

59 Niranjan Bhattacharyya, Second. 

(>0 Raimi it Bhattacharyya, Third. 

63 Kalidas Bhattacharyya, Second 
65 Randip Bhattacharyya, Second. 

70 Samarclmnd Basuray, Third. 

71 Suk umar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

73 Sasankasckhar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

74 Dayalchandra Bairagi, Third. 

77 Prasantnkumar Basil, Third. 

79 Suhhaschandra Basil, Third. 

80 SiiKilkunipar Hasu, Third. 

81 .latindralal Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

82 Sanjitkuniar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

87 Nirinalkanti Bandyopadhyay, Thiid. 

91 Sarhadarsan Chakrabarti. Second. 

92 Sibnath Aeharyya, Third. 

93 Gopalchandra Adhikari, Third. 

94 Siniilkiunar Bhattacharyya, Second . 

90 Asitkumar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

97 Niranjan Aeharyya, Second. 

98 Bimanhhushan Chakrabarti, Second. 

99 I’aritosli Das, Second. 

101 Nikbilrnnjan Das, Third. 

1(>7 Sakti prasad Mitra, 'third. 

109 Sunilkunti Mitra, Second. 

110 Ratnnndranath Mitra, Second. 

113 Bholanath Mitra. Second. 

121 Nimaichandra Ghosh, Second. 

122 Sunilkunmr Ghosh. Third. 

129 Prabhatkumar Ghoshal, Second. 

134 Sambhunath Haidar, Third. 

136 Balaichamlra Haidar, Second. 

139 Suryyakimuir Karmakar, Third. 

144 Ranendralal Kundu, Third. 

146 Sunilkninar Gahiri, Second. 

150 Praphullakuiiiar Gangopadhyay , Second. 
150 Snntikumar De, Socond. 

158 Sachindranath De, Third. 

159 Rnnendrakumar De, Second. 

160 Santoshkuinar De, Third. 

1(>4 Bijaygobinda Das, Third. 

167 Nityaranjan Das, Third. 

168 Jadunandan DaB, First. 

169 Narendranath Das, Second. 

170 Subhashchandra Dasray, Second. 

171 Nripendranath Datta, Third. 

172 Samirkumar Datta, Third. 

181 Sunilkumar De, Second. 

186 Asokkumar Ghosh, Second. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


109 


Pa»t 


IB] 


188 

189 

193 

197 

201 

207 

210 

213 

217 

219 

221 

224 

22f> 

230 

233 

234 
285 
230 
243 
2*14 
240 

247 

248 

252 

253 
250 
201 
m 
200 

207 

208 
274 
270 
279 
282 
283 

291 

292 

293 

302 

303 
307 
311 
313 
328 
332 
335 
340 
317 
352 
351 
358 

;u>o 
im 
Mb, 3 
301 
383 
:184 
388 
391 
397 
399 
405 
408 

413 

414 

415 
410 

417 

418 

421 

422 
425 
428 
432 
430 
437 
4:18 
410 

443 

444 

445 
440 
418 
45 ! 
458 

401 

402 

403 
401 


No., name and division. 

Naihatl Rlshl Banklmehandra collage 
ROLL NAL 

Gurupada Goswami, Second. 

Smirkuiuar Datta, Second. 

Panchanan Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
Kiranansu Maitra, Third. 

Sobhankwmar Ghosh, Third. 

Kakulchandra Ghosh, Third. 

Sundhyaaamir Ghosh, Third. 

Sunilkumar Manna, Second. 

Amarendra Majumdar, Third. 
Suutoshbihari Goswami, Third. 
Aclnntyakumar Goswami, Third. 
Amalranjan Das, Third. 
i)ilipkumar Das, Third. 

Sunilkamar Daa, Second. 

Benimadhab De, Third. 

Purimalkumnr De, Second. 

Smritimay Deray, Third. 

Sarojkanti Deb, Third. 

Bliahaniprasad Biswas, Third. 

Asimkuinar Biswas, Second. 

Susilkumar Bhadra, Second. 

Auadicharan Bhattacharya, Third. 
Kamalapuda Bhattacharyya, Third. 
Nirmalondu Bhattacharyya, First. 
Buddhudeb Bhattacharyya, Third. 
Pilipkutnar Bhattacharyya, Second. 
Parimalchandra Chakrabarti, Third. 
Chittaranjan Ohakrabarti, Third. 
Anilkuinar Chattopadhyay, Third. 
Prabhatkumar Chattopadhyay, Third. 
Amulkumar Chattopadhyay, Third. 
Kurtikchandra Bukundi, Third. 
Harinarayan Adhikari, Third. 
Rabindranath Bundyopadhyay, Third. 
Bidyutkumar Basu, Third. 

Jianjitkumur Haidar, Third. 

(Rteskumar Son, Third. 

Bikaschandra Sen, Third. 

Asok Sengupta, Third. 

Ajitkumur Sarkar, Third. 

Kamalkrishna Nandi, Third. 
Samirankumar Kundu, Third. 

Nundadulal Pal, Third. 

Susantakumar liana, Second. 

(Jatmingu Majumdar, Second. 

Vmalkanti Nath, Second. 

Lakslmnnarayan Nandi, Second. 
Jyotiriuay Pal, Third. 

Khagendranath Pramanik, Third. 
Subodlikumar Ray, Third. 

Saukarkumar Ray, Second. 

Amnkrishna Rayohaudhuri, Third. 

Pa tit pa han Sadhu, Third. 

Pradipkumar Saha, Second. 

Kalidas Saha, Third. 

Bi.swanath Saha, Third. 

Rabindranath Sengupta, Second. 
Pranabkumar Sensarma, Second. 
Hubindranath Sikdar, Third. 

Pradipkumar Taraphdar Third. 
Ramcndusuudar Chakrabarti , Second. 
Sarnirkumar Gangopadhyay, Third. 
Jtaiiendrumith Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
Oilipkumar Sarkar, Third. 

Vtpalkumar Sikdar, Second. 

Dilipkiiiuar Saha, Second. 

Sambhunath Mitra, Second. 

Ruualchandra Ray, Third. 

Nupurchandra Pal, Second. 

Miiurkumar Saha, Third. 

•libankrishna Saha, Second. 

Rklyutkumar Sarkar, Second. 

Subrata Bhattacharyya, First. 

Suprakas Ghosh, Second. 

Rumendrakumar ChAkrabarti, Third. 
Santoshkumar Barik, Third. 
Subhashkumar Sarkar, Third. 

Mihirranjan Datta, Second. 

Rcbdas Majumdar, Third. 

Satyanarayan Sinha (Ca), First, 
impal Deb, Third. 

Satrajit Tewari, Third. 

51 ah boob Hussain, Third. 

bn chandra Baksi, Third. 

Janjakumar Ohakrabarti, Second. 
Radliamohan Datta, Second 
•;>Kendranath Sarkar, Third. 

,V "Wtiranjan Basu, Second. 

‘bhpkumar Chattopadhyay, Third. 


i. “ • M " tkumar Third. 

47 1 V. llll 'kurnar Dob, Second. 

472 jV^Prasaima Ray, Second. 

473 P^ J Ji nika , nta Bhattacharyya, Third. 

474 S? akumw Biswas, Second. 

475 i mar Bhattacharyya. Third. 
Wanaskumar Ghoshal, THrd. 


No., name and division. 

Naihatl Rlshl Banklmehandra College 
ROLL NAL 

476 Kalisaran Bhattacharyya, Third. 

478 Prabirkumar Chaudkuri, Third. 

479 Kalyankumar Bhaniachaudhuri, Second. 

480 Syamalkisor Ray, Third. 

481 Gaurisankar Patra, Third. 

483 Iudulekha Bhattacharyya, Third. 

484 Tapankumar Chaudhuri, Second. 

485 Sitalkumar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

486 Prunabkumar Sarkar, Second. 

487 Asimkumar Ohukrabrti, Second. 

490 Madanmohan Pal, Third. 

493 Salilkumar Bandyopadhyay, First. 

494 Sadananda Sikdar, Second. 

496 Arabinda Chattopadhyay, Third. 

497 Rupendubikas Barua, Second. 

499 Chandicharan Nath, Second. 

503 Sumitkumar Ghosh, Third. 

507 Pijushchandra Biswas Third. 

510 Satyendrakumar Kundu, Second. 

511 Pranabkumar Kundu, Third. 

525 Subalehandra Bhattacharyya, Second. 

536 Sunilkrishna Datta, Third. 

537 Asokkumar Pal, Third. 

542 Bisweswarkumar Biwas, Third. 

543 Anuntakumai Bandyopadhyay. Third. 

544 Samarendra Bhattacharyya, Third. 

647 Sukumar Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

548 Samar endranath Ray, Third. 

551 Bunalchandra Nath, Third. 

552 Gobindadas Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

553 Susilkumar Mandal (llegn. No. 22775 of 1957-58), 

Third. 

554 Susilkumar Mandal (Regn. No. 365 of 1957-68). 

Third. 

555 PaNupati Mallik, Second. 

559 Tapankumar Niyogi, Third. 

560 Sukharanjan Kar, Third. 

566 Krishnachandra Ghoshchaudhuri, Second. 

569 Gaunnohan Ghosh, Third. 

573 Basantakumar Ghosh, Third. 

575 Subrata Datta, Third. 

576 Gopidulal De, Third. 

578 Pradipkumar Sen, Second. 

586 Santoshkumar Bhattacharyya, Second. 

587 Mohitkumar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

590 Pipendra Sinharay, Second. 

693 Sadhanchandra Sarkar, Third. 

594 Santiranjan Sil, Third. 

595 Bholanath Raychaudhuri Third. 

597 Sanjibkumar Sengupta, Third. 

600 Nitaichandra Pal, Second. 

604 Ganeschandra Pandit, Second. 

605 Satyaranjan Panda, Second. 

606 Gokulchundra Mitra, Third. 

607 Becharam Mandal, Third. 

610 Gaurangaohandra Karmakar, Third. 

614 Swapankumar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

617 Dilip Ohakrabarti, Third. 

618 Anandakuinar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

623 Syamalkumar Pas, Second. 

626 Abhaypada Gangopadhyay, Third. 

627 Samareschandra Chaudhuri, Second. 

628 Ohiraranjan Chanda, Third. 

6.32 Santigopal De, Third. 

633 Tusharkanti Datta, Second. 

634 Subodhhikas Datta, Third. 

636 ManikJal Chattopadhyay, First. 

637 Narayanchandra Cliattopadhyay, Third, 

639 Trilochan Chattopadhyay, Second. 

640 Sunilchandra Banik, Third. 

643 Susan takumar Biswas, Third. 

644 Bimalendu Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

645 Samarkumar Bandopadhyay, Third. 

646 Sudebkumar Ohakrabarti, Third, 

647 Dilipkumar Chakrabarti, Third. 

648 Salilkumar Das, First. 

649 Mohanchandru Das, Second. 

650 Nirmalkumar Das, Third. 

652 Sudarsankumur B.battuoharyya, 'Third. 

653 Rabindranath Bhattacharyya, First. 

654 Raniitbikas Das, Second. 

655 Anilkumar Ghosh, Second. 

656 IPjwalkumar Mallik, First. 

658 Qarekrishna Das, Second. 

659 Dilipchandra De, Second. 

660 Biswanath Chakrabarti, Second. 

661 Haranchandra Sarkar, First. 

662 J Kesabchandra Bhattacharyya, Second. 

664 Diptikumar Palit, Second. 

665 Dhireschaudra Ghosh (Ca), First. 

666 Subodhkumar Muhuri, First. 

667 Amalkiran Maulik, Third. 

668 Mrityuniay De, First. 

669 Santoshkumar Ghosh, Third. 

670 Pankajkumar Basu, First. 

677 Sunilkumar Gangopadhyay, First. 

685 Balaram Mridha, Third. 


110 


THE* CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


[Part )| 


No., name and division. 

Nattiati Rlshl Banklmohandra C*Hege 
ROLL NAI. F. 

G Dipti Scngupta, Third. 

8 Gita Chaudhuri, Third, 

9 Gi tan jali Majumdar, Third. 

12 Madhabilatu Debi, Third. 

15 Bandana Bhattaeharyya, Third. 

17 Gauri Bhattaeharyya, Third. 

18 Anita Chaudhuri, Third. 

19 Jayati Chaudhuri, Third. 

20 Rani Chakrabarti, Third. 

28 Anuradha Kar. Third. 

29 Dipti Lahiri, Third. 

37 Juthika Saha, Second. 

38 Nibedita Taraphdar, Third. 

41 Mira Ghosh. Third. 

42 11a Bhattaeharyya, Third. 

43 Chhaya Aich, Second. 

47 Minati Biswas, Third. 

48 Arati Chaudhuri, Third. 

49 Sujata Chattopadhyay, Third. 

50 Mira Ghosh, Third. 

51 Priti Gangopadhyay, Third. 

52 Chhaya Kar, Third. 

55 Kalyam Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

59 Sibani Sarkar, Third. 

Gl Santi Ghosh, Third. 

G4 Mainata Chaudhuri. Third. 

65 Manju Dasgupta, Third. 

66 Jay anti Dastidar, Third. 

68 Krishna Gupta, Third. 

71 Utpala Pal, Second. 

72 Jyotsna Pal, Second. 

78 Padma Chakrabarti, Third. 

83 Pranati Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

84 Hasan ti Ray, Second. 

85 Arati Bandyopadhyay , Secoud 

86 Srilekhu Bhattaeharyya, Second. 

87 Arati CTiakrabarti, Third. 

88 Chhaya Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

CIO Sulekha Chattopadhyay, Second. 

91 Anindita Ray. First. 

92 Bithi Bhattaeharyya, Second. 

90 Gauri Goswami, Third. 

97 Swagata Mitru, Second. 

98 Pranati Deehaudhuri, StM-oml. 

99 Sakuntalu Chakrabarti, Third. 

100 Sandhya Datta, Third. 

10J Miranmi Sinha, Third. 

102 Gauri Bluit.taeliaryya, Third. 

106 Nibha Sen, T'hird. 

108 Jharim Bandyopadhyay, T'hird. 

109 iru Hay, Second. 

111 Mukti Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

112 Gauri rail i Datta, Second 

114 Manju Pal, Second. 

115 Sandhya Pal, Second. 

116 Reba Pal, T'hird. 

117 Mira Hay, Third. 

118 Ratna Sengupta, Second. 

119 Bishnupriya l)c, Second. 

120 Malati Das, Third. 

126 Pranuti Kanjilal, Second. 

127 Sahitri Mukhopadhyay, Third 
129 Dipti Mukhopadhyay, T’hird. 

131 Dali Seiigupia, Second. 

132 Sohlia Hay, Second. 

144 Chhaya Mitra, Second. 

145 Mira Bhudra, Second. 

146 Purnima Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

348 Chanda na Chakrabarti, Third. 

149 Sikha Chakrabarti, Third. 

154 Binu Chaudhuri, Second. 

155 Kamala Datta. Second. 

159 Chhaya Das, Second. 

160 Ira Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

161 Maya Dhar, Third. 

164 Kasturi De, Second. 

165 Gita De, Second. 

166 Gita Biswas, Third, 

170 Santa Biswas, Third. 

171 Lily Bhattaeharyya, Second. 

172 Gauri Bhattaeharyya, Third. 

182 Jharna Samaddar, Third. 

191 Usha Ray, Third. 

192 Suchhanda Ray, Second. 

193 Siuli Ghosh, Second. 

197 Reba Das, Third. 

199 Anjali Das, Second. 

200 ChitraJekha Chakrabarti, Second. 

202 Sandhya Chakrabarti, Second. 

204 Mukul Majumdar, Third. 

205 Manju Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

~206 Reba Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

207 Namita Ghosn, Third. 

208 N&ndini Chandhurani, Second. 

219 Ithar Sinha, Third. 


No., name and division. 

Nalfiat* Rlshl Banklmchandra College 
ROLL CAL. F. 

3580 iudrani Basu, Third. 

3581 Gita De, Third. 

Non-oollagiata Student, Naihati Rlshl Banklmohandn 
Collage 

ROLL NAI. N. 

6 Dilipkumar Khasnabis, Third. 

7 Virendra Bahadur Singh, Third. 

Narkoldanga Gurudas Collaga 
ROLL CAL. 

1452 Basudeb Chakrabarti, Third. 

1453 Ramsankar Mitra, Second. 

1454 Dilipkumar Ghoshdaatidar, Second. 

1455 Baiayanath Datta, Third. 

1 456 Panchugopal Sarkar, Second. 

1460 Satyabrata Chakrabarti, Second. 

1461 Narendranath Saha, Second. 

1462 Jagatsundar Lahiri, Second. 

1464 Asishkumar Basu, Second. 

1466 Nirmal Chakrabarti, Second. 

1467 Asok Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

1471 Rabindranath Jana, Second. 

1472 Yeasin Ali Mollali, Third. 

1475 Himansusekhar Gupta, Second. 

1476 A8okkumar Biwas, Second. 

J 477 Pranabkumar Ray, Third. 

1478 Snehamay Sunyal, Second. 

1479 Debaprasad Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

1480 Manoranjan Pal, T'hird. 

1483 HimanHiikutuar Ray, Third. 

1485 Kalisankar Chakrabarti, Third. 

1487 Debabrata Chakrabarti, Second. 

• 492 Amalkumar De, Thiid. 

1494 Dhireskumar Sarkar, Second. 

1495 Kesablal Chakrabarti, Third. 

1499 Samirkuinar Pal, Third. 

151X) Mihirkumar Sarkar, Third. 

1505 Md. Sahajahan, Third. 

1509 Arupratan Dasgupta, Secoud. 

1510 Biman Basu, Third. 


ROLL ALI PU R 

j 10 Nikhilranjan Goswaini, Second. 


ROLL CAL. F. 

1255 Mukul Chakrabarti, Second. 

1256 Jamuna Nandi, Second. 

1257 Sunita Chattopadhyay, Second. 

1258 Prabha Karmakar, Second. 

1260 Kabita Basu, Second. 

1261 Smritikana Sinha, Third. 

1262 Si or a Ray, Second. 

1264 Sibani Mitra, Second. 

1266 Sipra Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

1267 Anita Poddar, Third. 

1271 Mira Chaudhuri, Second. 

1274 Rama Dasgupta, First. 

1277 Pranita Chattopadhyay, Third. 

1278 Sandhya Raychaudhuri, Second. 

1283 Arati Basu, Second. 

1287 Jahnabi Datta, First. 

1288 Subhra Chattopadhyay, Second. 

1293 Gayatri Majumdar, Third. 

1295 Nandita Ray, Second. 

1296 Anita Dasgupta, Second. 

1300 Snigdha Basu, Second. 

1301 Sandhya Basu, Second. 

1305 Reba Chakrabarti, Third. 

1307 Sila Ghosh, Second. 

1309 Rekha Ghosh, Third. 

2243 Kamala Ghosh (Mrs. De) , Second. 

2244 Latika Chakrabarti, Third. 


Presidency College 
ROLL CAL. 

1514 Purnendu Chakrabarti. First. 

1515 Mrinalkanti Gangopadhyay (9), First. 

1516 Prasantakumar Mukhopadhyay, First. 

1517 Ajay Sengupta, First. 

1518 Subir Sen (S), First. 

1519 Sunilkumar Mukhopadhyay, First. 

1520 Panchugopal Bhattaeharyya, First. 

1521 K&ly&n Ben, First. 

1522 Jasobanta Ksur, First, 

1524 Arupananda Ray, First. 


rtiTT+i rvrrrtvn A rii 


in 



Asishkumar Bandyopadbyay, First. 
Ajaykumar Bandyopadbyay, Fiist. 

Prabhat Qhosb, First. 

Asokkumar ltay, First 
•Amritananda Daa (S), first. 

Subrata Konar, First. 

Dilipkumar Ghosb, First, 
i Bimalendu Ghosh, First. 

| Sandwipkumar Das, First. 

riubhasnchandra De, First. 

; Malay Ghosh (SM), First, 
i Tapankumar Biswas, First. 

- sainardeb Chattopadhyay, first, 
j Maliabir Prasad Hanoi, Second. 

) Balaiohandra Oiakrabarti, First. 

) Mridulbandhu Niyogi, First. 

[ Bhabatosh Saha, Second. 

I Pradipkumar Ghosh, First, 
i Sinjit Chattopadhyay, First. 
i Adityakumar Bhattaeliaryya, Fust. 

> Jaydeb Karmakar, Second. 

; Bhaakar Sen, First. 
j Somriath Bandyopadbyay, Second. 

1 Kisor Ghosh, Second. 

[) Saurindranath Hay, First. 

[) Sekhar Dasgupta, First. 

2 vSrikumar Ghoshal, Second. 

4 Biswajit Chattopadhyay, Second. 

•i Sali lranj an Datta, First. 

G Badal Mukhopadhyay, First. 

7 Asokkurnar Sinha, Second. 

8 Arijit Ghosh, Second. 

9 Jayantakumar Chaudhuri, First. 

{) Arabinda Biswas, First. 

12 *J*rutap Mukhopadhyay (SH), First. 

13 Tirtliankar Chattopadhyay (S), First. 
y \ Cliiranjibprasarl Chaudhuri, First. 

15 Birendruprasad Bagchi, Second. 

Purulia Jagannath K I shore College. 


2 Adhirkumur Datta Third. 

3 Sitaruin Sikchi, Tliird. 

4 Mahadebkumar Sarkar, Third. 

8 Santoshkuinar Pal, Second. 

2 2 Syamalendu Sarkar, First. 

2(> Sainbhunath Saha, First. 

27 Jitendranath Sarkar, Second. 

28 Ranujitkumar Sarkar, Second. 

40 Ajaykrishna Sen, Third. 

40 Praphullukumar M a tidal, Second. 

48 Swupunkuutar Bandyopudhyuy , Third. 
r>2 Dwiiendranath Ha> , Second. 

55 Pranir Ray, Third. 

50 Phaniudruiiatli Sinha, Third. 

57 Dinescliundra Ray, Third. 

02 Nik hi lranj an Guha. Second. 
Hafizuddin Ahanied, Third. 

05 Arunkumar Ilor, Third. 

00 Pranabkumur Chattopadhyay, Thud. 

09 Ramesehandra Sen, Third. 

71 Sankarkumar Ktindu, Third. 

72 Prasantakuinar l)e. Sworn] . 

74 Pritischandra Chakiabarti, Second. 

75 Sujitchandra Guha, First. 

80 Pallubkumar Sarkar, Third. 

82 Mrintnay Goswunii, Third. 

87 Md. Mokhtar Ali Harder, Second. 

88 Nikhilkumar Chukrubarti, Second. 

80 Pankajmohan Sinha, Second. 

91 Baidyanath Bandyopadbyay, Third. 
93 Subhashcliaiidra Pal, Third. 

05 Jogendranath Sarkar, Third. 

90 Sainarendrakuiuur l)eb. Third. 

102 Naimuddin Ahamad, Third. 

105 Manojmohan Chukraburti, Second. 
100 Nitaichandra Ghosh, Third. 

1 10 Pijushkanti Basu, Second. 

122 Sripatichandra Barman, Third. 

120 Karuulkuiili Sarkar, Third. 


ROLL PURULIA. 


8 SoniPHwar Chakrahnrti, Second. 

44 IJesba rid hu Sab is, Third. 

02 llaradhan Mandal, Third. 

<>4 Anantalal JVIahata, Thiid. 

ti(> Arupkumar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

09 Satischandra Pathak, Third. 

98 Amalkantn Kisku, Second. 

120 Aswinikumar Pathak, Third. 

12^ Saktipada Goswami, Second. 

131 Mihirkuinar Mandal, Third. 

hill Asiinkurnar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

1115 Suktipuda Patra, Third. 

150 Narasinha Daskarmakar, Third. 

158 Uobinda Mahata, Third. 

100 Ahanikanta Mandal, Third. 

102 Nitvananda Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

105 Ajitkumar (Chattopadhyay, Third. 

173 Burgados Mandal, Second. 

178 Santoshkumar Das, Second. 

184 r lagabandhu Bandyopadbyay, Second. 

190 llmeschandra Mahata, Second. 

193 Braj Gopal Mahata, Second. 

205 Lakshmancharidra Chatlopadliyav, Third 
207 Aiunkumar Mahata, Third. 

21 1 Dhrubeswar Rati, Third. 

213 Duhruj Sing Sardar, Third. 

217 Nibarancharnlra Pande, Third. 

224 Asutosh Mahata, Thircl. 

225 Asokkumur Mahata, Third. 

229 Radhanath De, Third. 

238 Dilipkumar Daripa, Third. 

239 Mathancliandra Mahata, Third. 

247 Sunilbaran Rajowar, Third. 

2o0 danardankisor Majhi. Second. 

2>4 Gautarn Kumar Khedia, Second. 

ROLL PURULIA F. 
b Has anti Rishi, Second. 

Purulia Nlstarini College 
ROLL PURULIA F„ 


Sunanda Mitra, Third. 

Sima Mitra, Third. 

Inpti De, Second. 

Maniu Mitra, Third. 

8»ilokha Bandyopadbyay, Third. 
Gauri Chattopadhyay, Third. 
Jjandana Raychaudhuri, Second. 
Kalpana Chattopadhyay, Third. 
Karuna Sarkar, Third. 

Anima Ghoshal, Second. 

Jknshna Mukhopadhyay, Third, 
^jjaujula Chattopadhyay, Third. 
Madhulika Ch&kraberti, Third. 


ROLL RAI. F. 

2 Bela Chaudhuri, Third. 

5 Si la Raychaudhuri, Second. 

7 Reba Biswas, Second. 

8 Push pa Ray Third. 

19 Krishna Guha, Second. 

23 Sandhya Mukhopadhyay, Second 

24 Gita Datta, Second. 

35 .Jharna Das, Third. 

37 Krishna Songupta, Third. 

38 Supriti Sengupta, Third. 

40 Swapna Ray, Second. 

42 Clma Ghosh, Tliird. 

47 Prnnati Datta, Third. 


Rampurhat College 
ROLL RAM. 

7 Golam Rasul, Third. 

8 Swapanprasaima Ray, Second. 

9 Abu Sufian, Third. 

10 Golam Mostala, Third. 

21 Rasul Mahammad, Third. 

23 Paritoshehandra Das, Third. 

2-5 Giridliari Mandal, Second. 

27 Fozlul Hoque, Third. 

30 Abdur Rafique, Third. 

32 Narayanchamlra Bandy opadhy ay. Third. 

33 Md. Tain jar Ali, Second. 

34 Mrinalkanti Ray, Third. 

30 Adinath Chattopadhyay, Second. 

40 Muhammed Mohasin, Third. 

41 Golam Muztuba, Second. 

42 Fazley Haquc Khan, Thir<l. 

49 Abdus Sam ad, Third. 

50 Bidvutkumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

51 Radhasyam Mandal, Third. 

(>4 .Jagatpati Bandyopadbyay, Third. 

70 Sibsankar Pal, Third. 

71 Dhrubajyoti Maitra, Second. 

73 Arupananda Pal, Third. 

84 Kalyankumar Mukhopadhyay, Tliird. 

90 Aniikuinar Mandal, Third. 

93 Paramaiianda Bandyopadbyay, Second. 

103 Syed Enamul Kabir, Second. 

104 Mohammad Younush Ali, Second., 

108 Tapaskumar Mandal, Third. 

112 Santoshkumar Chattopadhyay, Third. 
114 Gopal Prasad, Third. 

121 Robert Rabindra Kumar Das, Third. 
126 Abdul Shaikh, Third. 


112 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


No., name and division. 

Rampurtiat Collage 
ROLL RAM. 

138 Amalkumur Chakrabarti, Second. 

142 Md. Banwar Ali, Third. 

144 Mohammad Salim, Third. 

145 Lut Fur Hahaman, Second. 

146 Amarnath Bandyopadhyay, Second. 
148 Rasamay Majumdar, Third. 

153 Lalmohan Das, Second. 

165 Dulalkali Chattopadhyay, Third. 

157 Srinandan Pal, Third. 

158 Ratinath Ray, Third. 

169 Adhirkumar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

160 Baidyanath Ghosh, Second. 

161 Krishnadas Sukul, Third. 

162 Niradbaran Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

163 Dinabundhu Bhattacharyya, Second. 
165 Manikchandra Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

ROLL RAM. F. 

1 Jayanti Phauzdar, Second. 

2 Asoka Chattopadhyay, Third. 

10 Anastia Ghoshal, Second. 


Ranaghat College 
ROLL RANA. 

1 Bi mulch andra Joardar, First. 

3 Nimaichand Saha, First. 

4 Rabindranath Joardar, Second. 

15 Samar Daschaudhuri, Second. 

17 Mrinalkantj Ukil, Third. 

19 Nimaichandra Raychaudhuri Third. 

20 Anathbandhu Biswas, Second. 

22 Debnaraynn Sadhukhan, Third. 

23 Asishrunjan Mitra, Third. 

26 Syamaprasad Bhadra, Second. 

28 Nirmalk umar Dus, Third. 

29 Dulalchandra Saha, Second. 

31 Gopidas Karmakar, Third. 

ROLL RANA. F. 

3 Dolly Datta, Tliird. 

4 Rama Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

6 Basanti Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

6 China Mukhopadbyay, Third. 

8 Gauri Mandal, Second. 

9 Arati Dam, Second. 

12 Pushpa Sen, Third. 

13 Reba Ray, Second. 

19 Chitra Guha, Third. 

22 fJaya Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

29 Sabita Dhai , Third. 

32 Subhra Goswami, Third. 

33 Gayatri Kundu, Third. 

35 Menaka Datta, Third. 

36 Dayamayi Sarkar, Third. 

37 Gita Gangopadhyay, Third. 

39 Menaka Do, Third. 

40 Nftima Deb, Third. 

42 Pushpa Pal, Third. 

45 Nibha Sinha, Third. 

46 Durga Poddur, Third. 

48 Gauri Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

60 S&ndhya Chakrabarti, Second. 

54 Bijaya Pramanik, Third. 

59 Arati Biswas, Third. 

60 Prabha Bhattacharyya, Third. 

62 Bibha Majumdar, Third. 

63 Sulekha Chakrabarti, Third. 

64 Bhakti Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

65 Diptikana Basil, Third. 

66 Sadhana Das, Second. 

67 Sukla De, Third. 

68 Dipti Bhattacharyya, Second. 


Raniganj Trivenidebl Bhalotla College. 

ROLL RANI. 

4 Nawal Kishore Bazaj, Second. 

7 Binode Kumar Kalotia, Second. 

10 Gurusaday Ray, Second. 

11 Maniklal Addi, Third. 

12 Amity agopal Ray, Second. 

13 Tulsidas Mukhopadbyay, Second. 

15 Arunkumar Nandi, Third. 

18 Arabinda Dikshit, Third. 

19 Sachikumar Sarkar, Third. 

28 Mrity unjay Das, Third. 


[I* art 



No., name and division. 


Raniganj Trivenidebl Bhalotla college. 

ROLL RANI. 

23 Byomkes Misra, Third. 

26 Bibhaschandra Chaudhuri, First. 

28 Rabindranath Karanjai, Second. 

29 Nitindrachandra Dasgupta, Third. 

31 Bisadbhushan Sarkar, Second. 

33 Paritosh Chanda, Second. 

.‘18 Suhridkumar Majumdar, Second. 

39 Mohanlal Nag, First. 

42 Sunilharan Bhattacharyya, Third. 


ROLL RANI. F. 

2 Alo Basu. Third. 

5 Krishna Mitra, Second. 

6 Bijaylakshmi Mukhopadhyay, First. 
8 Krishna Bandyopadhyay, First. 


Rishra Bidhanohandra College 
ROLL RISH. 

2 Haridas De, First. 

3 Kasinath Manna, Second. 

6 Birendranath Sanbui, First. 

9 Forhad Hossain Akonjee, First. 

10 Ranajitmohan Ghatak, Second. 

11 Mrinalkanti Pal, First. 

12 Golapchandra San, Second. 

13 Satyaranjan Malakar, Second. 

14 Tamalkanti Dattaray, Second. 

15 Jamal Ilddin Mallik, Second. 

1 ; Parimal Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

17 Bhabesch andra Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

18 Sankarnath Nandi, Second. 

19 Salilkumar Lahiri, Second. 

20 Mantulal Pal, Second. 

21 Ranjitkumar Sur, Second. 

23 Ajitkiimai l*al, Third. 

24 Praphullachandra Ghosh, Third. 

26 Gauranga Deb, Second. 

27 Subhashchandru Gangopadhyay, Second 

28 Manaskumar Gangopadhyay, Third. 

29 Haradhan Chattopadhyay, Second. 

30 Bholanath Sen Tliird. 

31 Syamalkumur Ghosh, Second. 

32 Silalprasad Chakrabarti, Second. 

33 Biswanath Bag, Second. 

34 Bibekananda Gupta, Second. 

35 Samir kumar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

36 Ratio Ahmed Third. 

37 Ajayxumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

39 Ramchaiidra Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

40 Hiranmay Ghosh, Second. 

42 Kamalkanti Saha, First. 

43 Malay kumar Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

44 Niharendu Dasgupta, Third. 

45 A mu lend u BatabyaL Second. 

48 Ran jit Samaddar, Third. 

49 Sankarprasad Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

50 Bishnupada Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

51 Santiranjan Hajra, Third. 

52 Sunilkumar Sarkar, Third. 

53 Gopimohan Ghosh, Third. 

54 Nnpendranath Nandi, Third. 

55 Praphullakumar Debnath, Third. 

56 Biswanath Pal, Third. 

57 Kamaluddin Ahmed, Second. 

59 Nirmalk umar Pal, Second. 

61 Guruprasad Mukhopadhyay, Tliird. 

62 Paresnath Nayek, Third. 

63 Saikh Enayet Hossain. Second. 

64 Krishnalal Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

65 Kantilal Gangopadhyay, Second. 

66 Dhiraj Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

67 Paramos Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

68 Pranabkumar Ghosh, Tliird. 

69 ltabindrakumar Sal. Third. 

72 Pasupati Bhadra, Second. 

73 Sribatsa Ghosh, Second. 

74 Krishnachandra Maitra, Second. 

75 Ramendranath Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

76 Padmanabh Chattopadhyay, Second. 

77 Gopalchandra Ghosh. Second. 

78 Bholanath Gangopadhyay, Second. 

79 Debaprasad Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

80 Samirkumar Das, First. 

81 Mihirkumar Hajra, Second. 

82 Niraalkumar Chattopadhyay, Second. 

83 Dwijapada Kar, Second. 

84 Quasim Ali, Third* 

85 Radhey Shyam Gupta, Third. 


p,Kf IB] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


113 



No., name and division. 

flithra Bidtianofiandra College, 

ROLL RI8H. F 

I Siisinita Sen, Second. 

I .layanti Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

4 Sarama Chattopadbyay, Second. 

Helm Saha, Second, 
t) Silu Sengupta, Second. 

; Smgdha Dutta, Second. 

I * .lliurna Balm, Second. 

Nibha Bandyiypudhyuy , Second. 
r bipali Bandyopadli.Miy, Second. 

I<, Krmhna Mukhopadh>ay, Thud. 

..I, Lakshini Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

Anuta Bagchi, Second. 

.1j Jala Chakrabarti, Third. 
r N Bela Kundu, Thira. 

U Hunjita Sum, Third. 


1*0., name and division. 

8antipur College 


ROLL 8ANTI. F. 


1 Prutima Maitia, Third. 

3 Namita Maitra. Third. 

4 Dipali Datta, Third. 

7 Puruhi Ray, Third. 

11 Tnpti Biswas, Third. 

22 Kalpana Sanyal, Third. 

20 Anuta Mukhopadhyay , Second. 

2 1 Sobhu Ghosh, Tlnrd. 

25 Chhaudu Cliattopudhyay, Kirst, 
20 Sila Pal, Third. 

27 Dipika Do, Third. 

20 A rati Do, Third, 
dl Santi Do. Third 
->_ Mridula* Do, Third. 


8anskrlt College. 

ROLL CAL. 

7,71 Saktipada Bhni.tachar.vyft, Kirst. 

;,7J ltiieswar Chtttlopmihyay , First. 

;, 7 *; Miuumlnikumar Majumdar, First. 

7,74 ’Milumiujaii BhatLaoharyya (S), Kirst. 
7,77, Cliuunjib BhaUaeliat yya, Kirst. 

7 , 71 , Niimwehandra Biswas, First. 

.,77 8 ; mkur Chakrabarti, Kirst. 

7,7> A riinkumur Chatlopadhyay , Second. 

7,7.) Nuioltam Pandoy, First. 

7, si » Ihjankuiiia r Cbakrubaiti, First, 

7,s | Aru fiend u Mukhopadhyay, First. 

7,s-j iJelaprasad Chattopadbyay, Kirst. 

7,^ 4 sanloshkumar Ghosh, FirBt. 

7 >M Paiescbandra Nath, First. 

7,S5 Am trail pin Sarbadliikari, First. 

7M, Dihpkumar (Miakraharti, Second- 
's Vimyakumar Pal. Socoiul. 

.>■*1 Vnilehandra Bhattacharyya, Fust. 

Mu i Asitkimiar Ghoshal, First. 

7*1 Dehdas ( 'hakrabiuLi , Second. 

Piaiiahkiwiti Chaudhun, Second. 


Santipur College 


% 

I 

!)‘l 

1)4 

UK) 

Kt» 

BJCI 

104 

107 

Ho 

117 

im 

122 


ROLL 8ANTI. 

Ihhpkiimar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
Kalulas Gungopadhyay, Second. 
I’nuiuhkumar Datta, Second. 
Ihieri(lnicha>ndra Das, Third 
Kesahkanti Sarkar, Third 
Sultan Ahanied, Second. 

Ihasantak mnar Bhattacharyya, Third. 
Nit\unandu lUiaumik. Second. 
Mmialkanti Gulia, Thiid. 

Hauptknmar Das, Second 
h.ikshmiknnta Ghosh, Third 
Kutinhiimar Basil, Second. 

Kii.karkuniar Biswas, Third 
Wlhirkunnvr Datta, Third 
Saul i ku mar Ghosh, Second, 
fhiurangapada Das, Third. 

Sainirknuiar Biswas, Third, 
Achintyaprasad Mukhopadhyay, Second. 
Khedcr Ali, Second. 

\ninkanti Datta, First 
la^annath Do, Third. 

Himadriprasun Nath, Third, 
hanaknath Biswas, Third. 

Beheiidranath Ghosh, Second. 

J ankajkumar Chakralmrti, Second, 
warm th Sarkar, Third. 

11 ' Mi n jay Khan , Second. 

Aijuuieliandra Biswas, Third. 

• hhakar (Tmttopadliyav, Second. 

vagopal Sarkar, Third. 
iJibyetidubhushan Biswas, Second, 
Banajitkumar Datta, Third, 
junilkumar Saha, Third, 
impkinnar Pramanik, Third, 
a nia rnath Biswas, Third. 
ftiM ,a ?L? mar Chaudhuri, Third. 
s.,, ut, , bhush ^ Saha, Second. 

ar ^i Un,ar Chattopadh.vay, Third. 
Dewan ji J Third. 

Sn« , n llc ^ an ^ ra ^ as ’ Second, 

^silkumar Nag, Third. 

Jukumar Kar. Third. 

Iwliwnmad Aiem Ali, Second. 


Scottish Church College. 
ROLL CAL. 


I5HA Banajitkuinnr Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

1584 Suhrata U'ay, Second. 

1580 S\umsundur Goswunii, Second. 

I AH 7 Tapaskuinnr Ghoshal, Second. 

15X8 Dihpkiunar Nandi, Second. 

1 58! ) Harcndriwiatli Kanjilal, Second. 

1590 Ainitahlia «lana, Second. 

I .*>1H Supriya Sen, Second. 

1595 Satvanarayan Mandal, Second. 

1590 Barunkumar Datta. Second. 

1 .55 1 7 Sana tku mar Ray, Second, 
lulls Baridfiaran Mandal, First. 

1 Til ID Asokkniuar Santra, Second. 

KitlO Unniiplkumnr Pan, Third. 

I (JO I Sannlkumnr Nan, Second. 

1002 Amivniaiijuti Mill a (Cal, First. 

1001 Sannrkumar Ghosh, Second. 

1605 Rahindrannth Gho.-di, 11, Second. 

1000 Prabircliaiulra Ghosh, Tliird. 

1007 KalyiMikuniar Gupta, Second. 

IOOS Anilkuinnr Das, Third. 

1009 Asokknshna Deb, First.. 

1010 Samarkumar Sarkar, Third. 

101 2 Taruntupan Gliosh, Second. 

101 A Rathiudra Ghosh, Third. 

1011 Nisanath Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

1017) Itu’Mjitkumar Debsarkar, Third. 

1010 Tarunkumar Sen, Second. 

1017 Aninkumnr Sarkar, Third. 

I01H Sut.Midco Mabaraj, Second. 

Kill) Surya Prakasli Dudh wewala, First. 

1020 Kama! Singh Mini, First. 

1022 Naiemlra* Kumar Gordbandas Knlyani, Second. 
I0‘2A Hameslndiandra M. Mehta, Second 

1021 Haines Chandni Hatilnl H uparelia , Third. 

1025 Ahmed All Mgeni, Second. 

1027 Lukheshe Soma, Third. 

1028 Debnath Dan, Second. 

1 021 » Asokkumar Rmdra. Third. 

10H2 Sulakhmi Singh, Third. 

2000 Pradyotkumar Basak, 'Pliird. 

2(>07 Prakaschandra Basak, Thiid. 

200S Biswanath Datta, Third. 

2009 Sujitkurnar Gupta, Third. 

2(M1 Siinirnial Ba<su, Second. 

2010 Bunalcudukumar Datta, Second. 

2()4(i Raneiidranatli Basil, Se<*ond. 

2017 Amitkuniar Bag, Second. 

2018 Ramkant Duhey, Second. 

2049 Sailakumar Dhar, Third. 

20. r »U Susan ka-sek liar Kundu, Second. 

2052 Alokkumar Mitra, Seei/nd. 

2050 Hum Chakrabarti, 'Pliird. 

2051 Tulsi Goswami. Third. 

2059 Pranabkumar Chattopadbyay, Third. 

2000 .lyotirmay Bandyopadhyay , Second. 

2001 Hanjankumar Bandvojiadhyay, First. 

2000 Arunkumar Chakrabarti, Third. 

2001 Asitkimiar Bandyojmdh\ ay, Second. 

2005 Miliirkumar Ba«u, Second. 

2008 Dipakkumar COiaudliuri, Third. 

2671 Michael Khan gin on, Third. 

2(372 Stopshon Sunn, Second. 

2675 Sujitendu Chaudhuri, First. 

2677 Taraknath Bhar, Second. 

2078 Somnath Basu, Second. 

2679 Syamalkrishna Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

2681 Jihananda Chattopadbyay, Second. 


114 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29 , 1962 


[Part ib 


No., name and division. 

SoottlBti Church College. 

ROLL CAL. F. 

1727 Sushiln Abraham, Fiist. 

17^1 ScphaJi Ghosh, Third. 

17.17 Swupanu Das, Third 
1 7;i<> Buhj Bandyopudhyav, Third. 

1 74 li Ju\ anti Chandra. Third. 

17 4.4 Sninitra Basu, Second. 

1744 Supnli Seugiintii. Third. 

1740 Arnita Sen, Third. 

1740 Kul pan a Hhuttaehniyya, Thud. 
1752 Santi (Miakrahnrii, Second. 

1754 .Manidipa Buiid.vopadhyuy, J bird. 

1755 Annhlia ( ’hukrabu*rti . I* irst. 

1750 BiUnka Biswas, Third. 

1758 Si nl i ( 'lin Uralmrti, Second 

1759 IMiluivhharaii Bhadnri, Tlnrd. 

1700 Snkla Bui nianray , Third. 

1704 Javauti Ba*.su, Third. 

1702 11 ii rani Band.vojmdhyay, Third. 

17(14 (hnatri Basak, 'llnrd. 

17(11 Si |)ra Chakruharti, Second. 

17115 Jharna Bundyopndhyny , 'Hurd. 
17(18 Aparna Gliattopadhyay, Third. 

1709 Biirninta Datta, Third. 

1774 Anjali l)e, Third 
1771 Milani Gum, Second. 

177(1 Shirley Mansukhani, Third. 

1779 Krishna Guha, Second. 

1781 Ciimmo*yi Mukhopadhyay , Second. 
1785 Manju Das, Third. 

1789 Suhhra Mitra, Second. 

1794 Snkla Majunular, Second. 

1795 Sri rii pa Nandi, Third. 

179(1 Namila Mukhopadh> ay. Third. 

1797 Dipika Dasguptu, Second. 

1798 A rati l)as. Second. 

1802 .Min a Sarkar, Second. 

1804 N audit a Sen, Third. 

1804 dolly Das, Third. 

1805 Gauri Desarkar, Third. 

18( K1 Padmabati Pal, Second. 

1807 .1 hama Pal, Second. 

1808 Mava Guharav, Third. 

1809 (lli lira Mitra*, Second. 

1810 Man, pi Datta, Second. 

1814 Sat lii Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

1815 Suhhra Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
1810 Mil Sen, Third. 

1820 Sita Hay, Third. 

1824 Sunanda Sengupta, Third. 

1826 Bum Sliarma*, Second. 

1827 Deanna Tang, Third. 

4050 Suinana Hay, First. 

40 ’>8 Huna Sarkar, Second. 


ROLL NABAGRAM F. 

57 >ukla Bamlyopadhyay , Second. 

8erampore College. 

ROLL 8ER. 

2 A. *1*. Hanatunga, Second. 

1 Kumarkanti Saha*, Second. 

5 Sourindra Mohan Das, Second. 

7 Duhiikrishna De. First.. 

8 Nisithharan Pal, Second. 

9 Prahhatkumar Sarkar, Second. 

11 Ariinahha Hlia»ttacharyva, First. 

12 M ridiilkiunar Handyopadhyay , Second. 

14 Jaydehkumar Bamlyopadhyay, Second. 

14 Svanudkmnar Chattonadhyay, Second. 

15 Suiitkuiriar G»ngopaahyuy, Third. 

16 Gnurchnndrn Ghosh, First. 

22 Anupkuniar Sengupta, First. 

25 Nmnaiehandra Basu, Second. 

24 Chandrakunta Cliakrabarti, Second. 

25 Basudeh Bivsurnv, Tliird. 

47 Sainarendu Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

:18 A sit Mitra, Second. 

41 Siheharan Pal. Second. 

45 Barunkuinar Dobgupta, Second. 

47 Byomkes Bamlyopadhyay, Second. 

54 Ni hares Chattopadhyay, Third. 

59 Jihankrishna Debnath, Second. 

62 Mrigendracliandra Das, Third. 

68 Nitailal Goswami, Third. 

71 Samarkumar Ghosh, Third. 

72 Nrishinhapraaad Haira, Third. 

75 A&okknma*r Lahiri, Third. 

77 Prasantakumar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

78 Anitkumar Maitra, Second. 

80 Gangadhar Panda, Third. 

81 Krishnadhan Pain, Second. 


No., name and division. 

Serampore College. 

ROLL 8ER. 

8 4 Nandadulal Saha, Second. 

92 Ajitkuuiai Malty. Third. 

94 Bancndranath Pal, Third. 

94 Suphalclnwidi a Kole, Second. 

96 Ftpnl Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

98 Jugaiinath, Chukrubarti, Second. 

99 Pianahkumai Basu, Third. 

101 Muhammad Ahdul Hannan Mondal, Third. 


ROLL SER. F. 

1 An jaii Hay, Third. 

2 Usha Ghosli, Second. 

4 Umarani Bandyopadhyay , First. 

5 Parul Nath, Third. 

6 Jolly Gupta, First. 

7 Kanika Dutta, Second. 

8 Suchitra Bandy opadhyay. Second. 
14 Kalyain Chakrabiwti, 'third. 

1 1 Bella Cliakrabarti, Second. 

18 Gita Kanjilal, Third. 

20 Manjula Mitra, Third. 

21 Krishna Nag, Seci/nd. 

24 Manasi Ghosh, Third. 

21 Suleklun Bhattacharyya, Third. 

25 Dipali (’halt opadhyay, Third. 

26 Aparna Chattopadhyay, Third. 

27 Sukla De. Second. 

2S Cliliaya De, Second. 

29 Nainita Ghosh, 'third. 

44 A i ati Majmndar, Third. 

45 Dipti Mitra, Third. 

41 Siprm Bhar, Second. 

45 Bimi (limit opadhyay. Second. 

49 Hama Clmudliuri, Second. 

54 Man pi Dasgiipta, Third. 

60 (Jita Ghosh, third. 

62 Alaka Pal, Third. 


Seth Anandram Jalpurta College. 
ROLL CAL. 

2878 Chandrasekhar Das, Third. 

2889 Bireiidianath Bhattacharyya, Third. 

2881 Sihapadn Ghosh, Second. 

2882 Paiichaiian Bera, Third. 

2889 Jadn bend rana ray wn Das, 'J'hird. 

2890 Bi.su ururi pm Cliakrabarti, Second. 

2891 N’ikhilbija\ Ghakrabarti, Second. 

2892 Sailendranath Ohakrabarti . Second. 

2894 Ddipkumar Cliakrabarti, Second. 

2895 Ainareiidranath Hay, Third. 

2900 Banjitkiiinur Bay, 'J’hird. 

2901 Sarnhhunath Pal, Third. 

2911 Biinalkuii>a*r De, Third. 

2912 Mm ariinohan De, Third. 

2914 Amalkrishua Derav, Second. 

2915 Gaurhhushaii lias, 'J’hird. 

2917 Sachindranatli Das, Second. 

2920 Dilipehandra Das, Second. 

2942 Mailliahnara.van Bhaduri, Third. 

2946 Pulakkuinar Chaudlmri, Third. 

2941 Jaliarlal Mukhopa*dhyav, Third. 

2915 Nntyagopal Mai, Third. 

2917 Narayangopal Kundu, Second. 

2951 Asoklvuiuar Sarkar, 'tliird. 

2954 Banuipada Sa*luina, 'third. 

2955 Bislmupada Saha, 'tliird. 

2959 Amulyakrishna Gangopadliyay, Third. 
2961 Taraknath Ghosh, Third. 

2901 Habindra*natli Gliosh, Tliird. 

2965 Manojkumar Cliakrabarti, Third. 

2971 Biswunath Chattopadhyay, Third. 

2972 Kamaleswar Cliakrabarti, Third. 

2974 PriMiabkninar Bandyopadhyay, Tliird. 

2975 Harimndhab Das, Third. 

2976 Hanjitkunuir Dasray, Third. 

2977 Matiojmohan Datta, Second. 

2978 Nunaichandra Das, Second. 

2980 l)ohahr»ta Ghosh. Third. 

2981 Asimkumar Ghosli, Second. 

2985 lCanjannarayan Mitra, Third. 

2995 Si ha go pal Basak, Second. 

2999 Maniklal Banik, Third. 

4000 Pasupati Bag,* Third. 

4001 Niharranjan Atarthi. Third. 

5007 Anilkumar Ray, Third. 

5008 Nirmalkumar Sarbajna, Third. 

5010 Sarojkumar Upadhyay, Second. 

4015 Niranjan Ray, Third, 

3021 Jyotiprakas Saha, Second. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


115 




113] 


vrJJ 

.tlL't 

{lit! 

:<n.D 

a*w. 

y> 

•{ill 1 
V4 • 
>0 1 1 
>11# 
;iuO 
,V)'I 

nr*i 

,{IWN 

,ior»i 

.ion 

w;j 


{im> 

IH-L* 

JlK» 

.MM 

Mlt 

MW 

\m 

tin:* 
.1111 
UK. 
'M 17 
i! N 
II :M 
illN 
ii'j; 
V‘>< 


tl:w» 
:<1 :: 
UN 
IN! 
K f:> 
ii r. 
1! IK 
UN 
;r.i 
II M 
’.IV, 

\ i ’>< 

. ii'ii i 
lKt» 
IK, I 
'>17° 
117.; 
1171 
:i;s 
117!) 
usi 
;m:> 
■in-, 

11 Vf; 
Us; 
•*;is< 

U>'> 

:ti<u 

»l9.“ 

IKK 

'!:»u ; 

•I'JIJ 

'*n 

***“8 


No., name and division. 

Seth Anandram Jaipur la College. 

ROLL CAL. 

DiKvemlu Son, Second . 

\ s o*kcliandra Sen, Second. 
i;.,njitcliandra Bagclu, Third. 

| ’ j a d i ok u in a r Ha ml vn j iadh v av , Secon d. 

,la\ ants* Chattopadln ay. Second. 

|iiM\analli Saha, Second. 

Msnlluihondrakiimnr Mifcra, Third. 

Vniitrkumar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

Mnkulchnndra Na-th. Thud. 

( haniinnkuniar Hal, Third. 

Habimlranath Gungopadhyay, Third. 
s.irojUumar Gnngopadh\a> , Third. 

|>i;iv;mliikumiir Ghosh. Third. 

Jjivantaknmar Datta, Second. 

Dipak Bhnttacharyyu, 1 1 (ltegn. No. 11)551 of 1958- 
.V.)) , Second. 

Ihkaspvoti Hay, Third. 

Dipakkmnar Sen, Third. 

'saty anwijan Pal, Second. 

\imiJyaralan Patra. Second. 

Iblasranjnn Hay, Second. 

Itirenkisor Hay, First. 

Ilitialkuinar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

C.wmprasad Mukhopadhyay , Second. 

|{jiinara> an Datla. Second, 

Dilipkumar Goswaim, Third. 

Susilkmnar Salm, Third. 

\ mania Lh Do, Secc/ml. 

Illiagwati Prasad Bluwuika, Second. 

(iumesliwnr Pal Hoougta, Third 
Pieni Hat an Pugnlm, Third. 

Hiiklian Pal Mumllnwu, Second. 
mi mo i Mai Nahat.a, Second. 

Mtn Ham Mehra, Second. 

Sudarshan Kumar Kapoor, Third. 

Itliom Singh Kotliari. First. 

Kiiiaiani llarlulka. Second. 

Mamk ('hand Sliarma. Third. 

Km Narain Goonka, Third. 

Hook I Nandan (lupta, Second. 

Si t a Ham Dujan, Third. 

Dilipiunjnn Chn«ttopadbyay, Third. 

Ihaiuna Deo Singh, Third. 

•lay. Ham Singli, Third. 

.1 isliruikant Tliakur, Third. 

Jugnnnutli Tliakur, Second. 

Kaiendra .Tha, Second. 

"mi rend ra .Tha, Third. 

Ham Bikitsh Sharma, Second. 

•lagdish Hai, Third. 

^nshil Kumar Hihani, Second. 

'-Knee Pal Hmani. Third. 

Deo Kumar Sarai, Third. 

Po\ md^ Prasad Pal, Second. 

> h« , o Kumar Kajaria, Third. 

^ s k«>k Kumar Clm-turvedi , Second. 

It. dm Pal Hlmgat, Second. 

• la^.it Smirli Chopra, Sc»cond. 

Nopilal Hhansali. Second. 

Ha tan Bag roe. Second. 

Pan Pal HaTietv, Second. 

Shy.im Similar Batin, Third. 

Su i a | Hal Atri, Seecrnd. 
italhu Prasad Agniwal, Third. 

•in gad is h Chandra Agnrwitla ,(Ca), First. 

V'Ku Singh, Second. 

[an Shankar Gupta, Third. 

Dtnosj) Kumar Mehrotra, Second 
Na hmnuv Chakraharti, Third. 

^adliftnlal Ghosh, Third. 

Dohondranath Hasu. Third. 

ainulkuniar Hhattaeharvva, Third. 

>‘iMa»c!,amlra De, Third.' * 
uiiarnath Goswami. Seeond 
'antinmjan Mandal, Third. 

Jtalu, id ra natli Mitra. Third. 

-uidkiirnar Pain, Third, 
uadhagovinda Hav, Third 
^okkmnar Saha, ’Third. 

-yahinda Hivndyopadhvav, Third. 

1 ^nni Tibrewaia,' Third. 

H' vvanath Butolia, Third. 

la hoc Pall Doognr (Ca). Seeond. 

. 11:1 Dhnrewa, Seeond. 

•JPdiendni Kiiinmr Jain, Third. 
r ’^ al Kinhor Agrawal. Second. 

J ari Kn'uhan Harsh, Third. 

P^nhnya Ball, Seeond. 

an. 1 hand Mimani, Second. 

^“nrsundar Ghosh, Third. 
ur ^kmn»r Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

^ampatlal Jain, Third. 
ftr unkninar Ray, Third. 


No., name and division. 

Seth Soorajmall Jaian Girls' College. 

ROLL CAL. F. 

195S Asha Arora, Second. 

19.59 Mu minima Dehi Slmmu*, Second. 

HUM) \eena Devi 'l’alwar. Second. 

1952 Prim I Kapot/r, Second. 

19(U Indira Chmiaiilal Patel, Socond. 

PHi.5 Ha Kapur, Second. 

I!K>S CJita Handyopadh\ ay. Third. 

1959 Vslm. Hanthui, Second. 

1970 Piohha Bagla, Second 
1975 Amipiiina Shah, Fust. 

1974 Saiidh\a Mi^ra, Second. 

1975 Palita Singh, Third. 

1975 Sharda Kuniari Khaima, SiM-ond. 

I9^< X'idya Kumnn Jlmn.ihunwala, Soeond. 

197S Ham Devi Chawla, Seeond. 

1979 Meena Nandwaiu. Third. 

19S2 Nmnala Agarwal, Third. 

1985 Prnula Garg, Second. 

1984 Janki Bharaney. Third. 

1985 Kanchim Kumnn Kochai, Third. 

19S(> Dipti Haidar. Third. 


K 

10 

12 

15 

17 

I!) 

20 

21 

25 

27 

2K 

29 

51 

;w 

55 

58 

40 

41 

42 
15 
15 
45 
17 
50 
r * 

55 

58 

50 

51 
ti(> 
57 

71 

72 

75 

77 

SO 

S5 

84 

K5 

87 

88 

89 

90 
97 

105 

10(> 

115 

lift 

117 

120 

155 

157 

141 

115 

145 

147 

151 

152 
157 


8ib|iur Dlnabandhu College. 

ROLL HOW. 

Ajitkiimar Chakraharti, 'Phird. 

Smlhaiisukunm r Dalta, Third. 

Byomkos Misra, Second. 

Anilkuniar Das, Second. 

Pnriinalnnijan Senguj»Ui, Third. 

Vasin Ali. Third. 

Gopalchandra Khan, First. 

Pakshinikaiita Bliattachary va, Third. 

Pnwlipkumar Ghatnk, Third. 

As i« < hn l V.ll , v r L ^ ,,k, '»Padhyay, 1 (H'egn. No. 11229 of 
19.)9-t)0), Second. 

Asitkumar Bera, Second. 

Syam.su min r Das. Second. 

Bishnupadu Gangopadliyav, Second. 

Sihnnlh Ghosh, Third.* 

Basudeh Kole, Second. 

Dilipkumar Ghoshal, Second 
Auuyakuma.r Bandyopadhyay. 'Phird. 

Ganeschamlra Pramanik. First. 

I anmkmna r Sarkar, Second. 

Sujitkumar Bandyopadhyay, Second 
.Mariojkuinar Ghosh. Second. 

Rashhihuri Pa-Iai. Third. 

A rd hendulal Pahiri. Sec*ond. 

Gopalchandra Hay, Third. 

Satyendramith (Bic/shal, 'Phird. 

Baninkiiniar Majumdar, Second. 

Khagcmlram>th Bhattaclmryya 'Phird. 

Santosh fiop. Second. 

Xitaichandra Cihosli, Third. 

Samhhupada I lands opadhyav, 'Plurd. 

Dihakai Ghosh, Second. 

Sunilkmnar Bandyopadhyay, Thud 
NiniiMdlian Tlaira, 'Phird. 

Ainarcridninuth Khan. Third. 

Alokkumar Hay, 'Phird. 

Hana.pt kiiniar Sarkar, Second. 

Matuidrakisor Chakraharti , Third. 

Ahhik Sanya 1, Third 

A iu- k 7Ti! l,lk 1 l '' l| ”' lll, '" v - 11 <K*’Kn- No. 2210.1 of 
ivw)n-»)9 ) . J lord. 

Amaremlranath Bern, Sc*eoml. 

A lulkumar Dalta, Second. 

Gopalchandra Gangopndhyay , Second. 

Uinapada Bhaduri, Third. 

Chit tanwi.jun Bhannnk, 'Phird. 

Asitkumar Bhatlachar>ya, I (Regn. No 2192^ ol 
19o8-59), Seeond. 

Ajitkmnar C’hat topudhvav, Thiid 
Arunkumnr Das, Third. 

Sana tun Chattopadhyay, Third. 

Amitabha I*alsnin. Third 
Samarendranath Mai Ilk, Third. 

Gaiirnngasundar Hay, Third. 

Hadhahallabli Goswami, Third. 

(iopalchandra Mukhopadlivav, * Third 
Gohindachandra Mukhojiadhyav, Third 
Panchanan Mahata, Third. 

Jav deb Prntihar, Third. 

Saktiprawad Basu, Third. 

Parimalchatidra Das. Third. 

Sitanath Mukhopadhvay. Seeond. 

Ajitkiimar Pal. Third. 

Amaremlranath Samanta. Socond. 

Subhjfcshchondra Das, Third. 

Panchanan Chaudhuri. Third. 

Biswanath Chattopadhyay, Second. 

Bhanusekhar Bhattaeharyya, Third. 



llfi 


T11K CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


[Part 


No., name and division. 

glbpur Dinabandhu college. 

ROLL HOW. 

1 1)2 Dhirajtuohan l)attw, Second. 

1(5 1 Iiiduhhushan Pandit, Second. 

109 Sachindranath Pal, Third. 

171 Maiundrunatli Da tin, Sectynd. 

17*2 Dilipkiiimtr Datta, Third. 

150 Suptkmnar Hay, Second. 

151 Pras.intahuinar Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

JM2 Dilipkiiimii Mukhopadhya.\ . Third. 

Us.i Sitansu.sekliui Smharay, Second. 

18. » M urai imolian BlnRtaehar.vya, hecond. 

190 Clmimay Huyrhuudhuri, I hird. 

191 Punku|kumar < 'haki aharti, third. 

10*2 Rabindranath Mitra, f l'hird. 

Li):}, 'Tiisliarkanti Bera, First. 

101 Alokkmmw Gangopadhyay Second. 

108 Apurhondu Khahiiabishandyopadhyay, rirst. 

200 Durgasankar Golui, Third. 

201 Dlu rendi ana th Chakrabarti, I hird. 

203 Kanaklal Sil, Second. 

204 Binaykumai Da*tta, Third. 

205 Dilipkurnar Hay, First. 

207 Dihakar Mallik, First. 

211 Nirodharan Mitra, Second. 

212 Prahhaschandra Do, Thinly 

217 Turupuda Giwigopndhyay , Third. 

221 A yodh.N a Prasad Singh, Second. 

222 Sidh Nath Prasad, Socond. 

223 Kumar Swami Ampolu, Third. 

221 Lochutichandrn Karak, Third. 

227 llennnudhinh De, Third. 

231 Saiiian ndranalh Miiklmimdhyay, J hird. 

233 Sisu Kuimv* Nag, Second. 

2: Ci Kamales Bhat tncharyya, Third. 

2*11 Tapan M ukhopadhyay, Third. 

242 Bholanath Sarkar, Second. 

247 Lakshmikanta Ray, Third. ^ 

249 Saniares Sarkar, Second. 

250 Kama 1 inula Das, Second. 

253 Sailenkuinur, Chattopadhvay, Third. 

255 Sunil Band,\ opadhyay , Third. 

250 Gaurisankur Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

257 KiijkiinuM* Bnnik, Third. 

259 Binayhhuslui'i De. Third. 

20 1 Kaimilakanta Bag, Third. 

202 Tapaskumar Ghosh, Third. 

200 Bala icha mint De, Third. 

207 Saimwendrakumar Hasu, Third. 

209 Prahhaskanti Ghosh, Third. 

271 Sankar Nandi, Third. 

275 Dilipkurnar Nandi, Third. 

278 A runk uinar CTiaudliuri, Second. 

282 Kariikelittndra Mandal. Third. 

283 Debahratakuniar De, First. 

281 Abhijit < Tiakrabarti, Second. 

280 Tnpanktiiiuir Dasgupta, Second. 


Sllkgurl College. 

ROLL SI LI. 

2 Dehaprasad Ghosh. Thud. 

4 Anadinipth Bay, Third. 

5 Ranajitkuimir (Tiakrabarti, Second. 

0 Dwi.jendranatli Ghosh, Third. 

8 Dhirajkuittar Datta. Third. 

18 .Jaikishan Kalyani, Third. 

19 Binayehandra De, Third. 

24 Kamal Mitra. Third. 

25 Ihjushkanti Dhar, Third. 

20 .lagudish C handra Agarwala, Second. 
29 Sudliindrannra.xan Ghosh, Third. 

.‘10 PrasiMitakuimir Sikdar, Third. 

33 Dipakkuuiar (Tiakrabarti. Third. 

35 Dipendrakumar Palohaudhuri, Third. 
37 Bidliiiblnishaii Sarkar, Third. 

.38 Chaudan (Tiamlhuri. Third. 

40 Banajit Bay, Second. 

41 Sibajyoti Chnudliuri, Third. 

42 Bfam (Tiandra, Third. 

43 Anilkumar Pal, Second. 

44 Pankaikumar Palcliaudhuri, Third. 

45 Mamndrakumar Ruyohamdhuri, Third. 
40 Bhupendranath Kundu, Second. 

47 Nirmalendu Bhadra. Third. 

48 Ni ran jan Mandal, Third. 

58 Gaurangachandra Ghosh, Third. 

60 Pra santa Kundu, Third. 

01 Jay deb Ray, Third. 

07 Pranab Ghosh, Third. 

68 Tarakcswar Chattopadhyay, Second. 

69 Ganeschandra Ghosh, Third. 


No., name and division. 

glllguri Collage. 

ROLL gILI. F. 

3 M unjust) a Chakrabarti, Second. 

4 Krishna Guha, Second. 

6 Minati Raychaudhuri, Third. 

12 Kuinkum Bhattacharyya, Third. 

13 Marijuln Deh. Third. 

1 1 Kami Dasgupta, Third. 

17 KuUuiii Bhattacharyya, Second. 

18 Bijay lakshmi Chanda. Third. 

19 Nairn La Sikdar, Second. 

23 Bhara>ti Ghrjfsh, Third. 

35 Anita Bhaduri, Third. 

30 Bharat i Datta, Third. 

37 Relm Datta, Second. 

39 Santwana Sengupta, Third. 

40 Rekha Sinha, Third. 

41 Manjiili Majumd»r, Third. 

47 Bakul ( hsiknibarti (Mrs. Bhattacharyya), Second, 
59 Snsita Chattopadhyay, Third. 

61 Pratiblm Datta. Third. 

02 Priti Ghosh, Third. 

03 Rctiuka Kundu, Second. 

05 Tapati Deh, Third. 

00 Rekha Cliaki, Second. 

07 Chha.va Chuiidhuri. Third. 

08 Maiuata Chuudhuri, Third. 

09 Anuta Kundu, Third. 

71 Latika Sengupta, Third. 


Sonada 8aleslan College. 
ROLL DAR. 

1 Abraham Mutholy, First. 

2 Devasia Augustine* Kodiamkunnel, First. 

3 Kuunumpurain J. Augustine, Second. 

I Joseph, D’Souza, Firat. 

5 Madden Jocelyn, First. 

0 S. Lucas Sirkar, Second. 


South Calcutta Girls 1 College. 
ROLL CAL. F. 


299 Archnna Deh. Second. 

303 11a Ghosh, II (Begn. No. 32490 oi 1957-58), Tliira. 

301 Ku»jali Mitra, Third. 

310 Aparna Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

312 Nandita Mujumdar, Third. 

313 Purnirna Raychaudhuri, Third. 

314 Anita Maitra, Third. 

315 Sila Biswas, Third. 

310 Amita Bay, Third. 

317 Gayatri Son, Third. 

320 (Tina Ghosh, r l'hird. 

321 Jayasri Gupta, Third. 

320 Saiiita Biswas, Third. 

327 An liana Ray. Second. 

331 Sahita Dus. r riiird. 

333 Arnti Bandyopadh.\a.v, Third. 

331 Sadhana Ghosh. Third. 

335 Snnchaita Sengupta, Third. 

337 Sima Sarkar, Tlnril 

339 Surnbhi Sural. Third. 

311 Malina Hor, Third. 

342 Krishna Sengupta, Second. 

340 Anuradhu Das, Third. 


.347 

352 

357 

359 

378 

380 

.‘185 

402 

405 

407 

108 

420 

423 

125 

431 

432 
4. ‘14 

436 

437 

439 

440 
444 


Sakti Bay, Third. , IM . 

Sa»hita Sen, T (Begn. No. 18552 of 1958-59) 1 hue 

Minakshi Sen, Third. 

Gita Bhattacharyya, Third. 

Sanjukta Sen, Third. 

Manjubina Sengupta, Third. 

< 'll i n it Bhattacharyya', Third. 

Sandhva De, First. 

Indira Rayoliaudliuri, Third. 

Maya Hajra, Third. 

(Jit a Mitra, Second. 

(Jita Nag, Third. 

Suehitra R'av, Third. 


Amita* Chanda, Second. 

J liar nn Ghosh, 1 (Regn. No. 1R480 ot 


1 <>58-591 


Second. 


Sila Mitra (Mrs. Basu), Second. 


Jayasri Ray, Socond. 

Gita Mukhopadhyay, Second. 


Kalpana De, Third. 
Arati Datta, Third. 


Nira De, Third. 

Mivnisha Chakrabarti, Third. 


446 Gopa Sengupta, Third. 

447 Tapati Sengupta, Third. 

448 Sakuntala Sengupta, Third. 
452 Anjali Bhattacharyya, First. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


117 




I»J 


No., name and division . 

South C*loutta Gins’ College. 
ROLL CAL. F. 


No., name and division. 

Sri Shikshayatan College. 
ROLL CAL. F. 


£ U | liana Ghosh, Third. 

Uai.j.isri Sengupt*, Third. 

Chattopadhyay, Second. 

K ilpana Datta, Second. 

(I'r.lna Sengupta, Second, 
snimtra Baeu, Second. 
h.H Das, Third. 

Tannna Sen, Second. 

u 0 ia Dandy opadh y ay ^ Ihird. 

Kai>ita Ravchaudhun, Second. 

1 all De, Second. 

\,aM Dandyonadhyay, Third. 

\niulita Ghosh, Second. 

1 la Ghosh. I (Wn. No. 18479 oi 1958-59), Second. 
iVnt nsi Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

\%nlnla> Mitra, Second, 
sunntft Sengupta, Second, 
galnana Ray, Second. 

Manjusri Mitra, Third. 

Kamilla Das, Third. 

Kal van i Sen, First. 

I {a.m Sen, Second, 
habanva Saha, Third. 

Ihnitii Handy opadhyu.v. Third. 
hVklm Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

Kaiuka Adhikari, Third. 

(hi a Duksi, Third. 

KalpiMia Chattopadhyay, Third. 

.luthika Sen. Third. 

.hot.Mui Datta, Third. 

"Miiiati Mukhopadhyay , Third. 

RuMioda Begum, Second. 

M.imi Ghosh, Third. 

Man | ilia Ray, Second, 
liliakt 1 Ghosh, Third. 

IJliiiiatj Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

Malancha Dasgupta, Third. 

I'lanaii Chattopadhyay, Third. 

\int:i (’hakrabarti, Third. 

\lukla Chanda, Second. 

II(.n\ Kh/aiheth (Jasper, Third. 

\ m.ili llhattacharyy a, Third. 

Mimiusn Thakur, Third. 

\im:i purna Doh, Third. 

Vihlia Sen, Third. 

Mu a Laluri, Third. 

K.ilpauu Sengupta, Third. 

Anmdliati Sarkar, Second. 

Mpia Basu, Third. 


ii;*i 
N.l 
H.L» 
v , ; 
M 

lln 

11)1) 

KIT 

H)S 

Kilt 

i;u 


w; 

►77 

'i).; 

'bl 

■V* 

"(V, I 

77(i 

771 


>> 

'^7 

}4k 

p*i 

>> 

ITftH 

N 


Sri Shikshayatan College. 

ROLL CAL. F. 

Hull /.a Zamal Hossain, Third. 
Ikmtlana Basil, Third. 

K a kalj Gupta, Second. 

Gita Mallik, Third. 

8 \ miala, Third. 

N cena Kapur, Second. 

Man i u •Tajodiw, Second. 

M. ulhw Talwar, Second. 

Kama Ifs Agarwal, Third. 

Annapurna Agrawal, Second. 

Ihmi Bhutia, Third. 

s a\itii Dudhoria, Second. 

Mundlira, Second. 

Ihahhn Singh, Second. 

Ga \ at li Singh, Second. 

Mu /-a Kassamali, Second. 

A* rid u la. Sicka, Second. 

1 1 cinlal a Suraiya, Second. 

„ M>, hi R. Shniiani, Second. 
oliiigMaiti Ojha, Second, 
hunayanti Prithwani, Third. 

'i ,( lru M. Bhawnani First. 

N, m:| G Dasgupta, First. 

^'sitileUha Chakrabarti, Second. 

■ l l ,,,, ‘ Dasgupta, Second, 
h'inia Bagchi, First. 

■Aalpaim Hajra, Th ird . 


'ivasri Majumdar, Third. 

,lk ‘J Alaitra, Third. 

Ba nd.vopadh y ay , Third. 
Vi,' u '''itlopadhyay , Second. 

^ ; ,r d;i Gliadha, First. 
v!; , " ,4 \ ,ssar > Second. 

Sh, n ? T; llwar » ^ond. 

Kumari Khanna, Third. 
» J «?fie, Third. 

W S Khemlani, Third, 
v"* §akshi, Second. 

£ a P°or, Third. 

Xirm^i T %. uriah * Tliird. 

Sa r T [ & Chu ^ Third - 
0J Kumari Sethi*, First. 


1809 .Taya Aiyar, Second, 
is 1.4 Shobha Sardana, First. 

4814 Mocnin Gharpure. Third. 

1815 Sushi la Kejariwal, First. 

181 ti Mira Hiniatsmgka, First. 

1S17 Asha Khanna, Second. 

4819 I’sha Kumari Khaitan, Second. 

4820 Biiiila Khanna, Second. 

4821 Santosh Duggal, Second. 

4822 Fain* Singhania, Third. 

4824 Yinod Sachdeva, Second. 

1824 Hina Jajodia, Second, 

4825 Pushpa Kumari Agarwala, Second. 

182(4 ludrn Kumari Melira, Second. 

1827 Himla Kumari Sethi**, Second. 

1828 .lasbir Kaur, Second. 

1829 l ' sha Mehra, First. 

4840 Savitri Kejriwal, Second. 

1841 Himla Pathak, Second. 

48.4,4 Indu Yerma, Third. 

18:16 Madhulmla Rohatgi Third. 

18.47 Suslnla Uampuria. Third. 

4840 Pushpa Dhandhania, Third. 

18 41 Madhuri Chokliany, Second. 

1812 HuLiand A kilter, Second. 

4845 Sharda Sonapal, Third. 

48 Hi Chandrika .Toshi, Second. 

48 48 Turlika Ganeshdas Shall, Second. 

4850 V. Padma. Third. 

4 85 1 Davindor Kaur, Second. 

5791 Sarla Toolsidas, Second. 


Non-Coiiegiate Students, Sri 8hik*hayatan College. 
ROLL CAL. F.N. 

2154 Ymdri Chandiram Lnlwani, First. 

2 1 5 1 Kajasii Thakur, Tliird. 

21. Vi Anjatia Datta, Second. 

2157 Saleh a llatnid. Second. 


St. Paul’s Cathedral Mission College. 
ROLL CAL. 

4421 A pa resell a nd ra Hhattaeliarvyas Second. 
4427 Pradipkumur Gupta, Second. 

4128 Itimal Kumar .Jhajliaria, Second. 

4429 Bihhaschandra Mitra Second. 

4410 Tapaskumar Lahiri, Second. 

4441 Gaurangacliandra Saha, Third. 

44.‘15 Rabindranath Chattopadhyay, Second. 

4,440 Nikhilkumar Sardar, Third. 

4147 Nabaktnmw* Datta, First. 

4449 Anandagopal Ray, Second. 

44 U Nepalchandra Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

4.445 Santoshkumar Pal, Ihird. 

4440 Prasanta Majumda>r, Secmul. 

4447 Suhodhchandru Dhara, Third. 

4448 Samarchandra Hnsu, Second. 

4419 AinineKhkuimir Gulia, Second. 

4450 Himalendu Giri, Second. 

4451 Ajitmohan Pal, Second. 

4.452 Nandadulal Das, Third. 

4*155 Pradvotkumar Dhar, Second. 

44.40 Jagivdischandra .Tana, Third. 

4:157 Katanknnti Basu, Second. 

4:158 Pranahcs Bandyopadhvav , Second. 

4459 Hrishikes lliswas. Third. 

4400 Saurendranal h Dasgupta, Second. 

4102 (’hit tarsinpwi Sadlniklian, Third. 

4404 Aniiikumar Das. Second. 

4404 ALumi Sarkar, Second. 

4400 Delia prasad Mukhopadhyay , Second. 

4408 Matmr Rahman, Third. 

4:109 Bisweswar Baidya, Second. 

4*170 TiiKh^rkanti Sarkar, Third. 

4471 Aid. Ram, tan Ali Laskar, Third. 

4174 Manimay Chakrabarti, Third. 

4475 Arunabha Ray, Third. 

4477 Chandranath Ghosh, First. 

4478 Pilipkiimar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

:t:i80 Supriya*knmar Gii]>ta, Second. 

4481 Sudhindranarayan Bagchi, Third. 

4‘182 Sujitkiitnar Sengupta, Third. 

4184 Ajit.kumar Sarkar, Second. 

4484 Anadinaravan Ghosh, Third. 

4185 .lasaprakas Gangojiadhyay, Second. 

4*187 Snrajitkumar Cliakrabarti, Tliird. 

4*188 Susantakumar Tanadar, Third. 

4496 f4umahan Basu, Third. 

4406 Adrijmoha'n De, Second. 

3407 Pranabkuinar Ghosh, Second. 

4416 Sibabrata R*ay, First. . 

3417 Jagadish Narayan Smgb, Third. 


118 


T1IE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


3100 

iiil 

o it Y2 
3103 
0 103 
3ioo 
3107 
310* 
311,9 
a 170 

3171 

3172 

3173 
.117 3 
3177 
317* 
3179 
31*0 
34*2 
3 I S3 
3 1S4 
3 I S3 
3 ISS 
3 190 
3 191 
3 193 
3197 
3 I9S 
3199 

3301 

3302 

3303 
331 ) I 
;i3t >3 
3307 
33( IS 

3309 
3.310 
331 1 
3313 
331 1 
.3.313 

3310 

:v.3 1 7 

33 1 S 
3,319 

332 1 

3322 
3,323 
’32 I 
'1.320 

3329 

3330 
3.3 \\ 
3,333 

3331 
3,333 
33 17 
1339 
33 10 
33 1 I 
33 12 
3313 
33 | 1 
:13 17 
33 IS 
33 19 
33 ">0 

333 1 

3332 

3333 
3331 
3333 
3330 
3337 
3339 

3300 

3301 

3302 

3303 
3301 
3303 
3300 
:1307 

33 OS 
3309 

3370 

3371 

3372 

3373 
3371 
.3373 
3370 
■v,77 
3.578 


IPakt 


No., name and division. 

8t. Xavier’s College 
ROLL CAL. 

Asokkumar An Second. 

Fete i Dilip Kumar Surkar, First. 

!*i txliplviimai Smlia. Kirst. 

Supt kmmir Ghush, Second, 
liiiankiiimu Sai Uni , Third. 

Alilu .Mapimdur. Second. 

F.iij'C’iu* ito/.ano, Third. 

Dehkisoi Sen, .'m • colic! . 

Amit Hay, Second. 

A sit k u mn r Sen^upta. Second. 

M i m.tlkant 1 lkinn. Third. 

Suhluajxoti Sxam, I lord. 

I ) el>a<hi a t a SciiKUpta, Third. 

J) «l lesch.indi a ( ’haUopudhx a> , Second. 
Suhashiiiin l Sen^iijiLa, Tliiid. 

Dehmwiii Gupta, 'I lord. 

Mocjhul \hined Molla. I lord. 

Kasmath Bandx opadhyay, Second. 

Sam cncli ana 1 h Basil. 'I hud. 

Saihapt ( hat t oputlh v a\ , ’hirst. 

Asimratan Samaidar K a), First. 

Aiahinda De, Second 
Amainath Blu>t taeharyya, Third. 

Faul Gomes. T >i i rd . 
i’liiakijnasacl ( ’liaki aharti, Second. 

Ban plkunuu Mitra, Third. 

Bat hmclranai h llap'u*, Second. 
l*i nnahpratn p Mitra Seec/nd. 

Cedric Muhael De Sem/.a, First. 

Sxamnlemlu Das^upta, Second. 

\ r N. A tit Kumar, Second. 

Dmka-i ai \ \ as. Second. 

Anthom .Jo«oph Alvaros, Second. 

K isliore .1 Kripalam, First. 

Finest Baxmond Fen is, Second. 

\isar Husain, Second. 

I’roiiow hand Mahatah, Sc»eond. 

A nipiiiiniMin Chamllniri, Kirsl 

Noornioham nied I’ll inoha mined Ha-ssam, r l*h i rd 

C. Krishna ltao. Second. 

Sji i hapt Bax . Second. 

S.iiirinath Mwkhnpadhxax Thud. 

India Mohan Khosla, Second. 

*\\ apaneluMiih a Chaudhiin, hirst. 

Michael hold Second 

l*ioni K lima t Mehta. Second 

. I o:t < ( 1 1 1 1 1 1 \nlhoin Mene/cs, Third. 

I hi I Kishan ^haiafl, Second. 

Kills Cohen. First. 

Y V. S Bi.isad, Second. 

Moliammed Osman, Second. 

( 'handi 11 Maha*tani, First. 

Dm Fiakash Sml, First. 

Bamlolph Wmholt .lark^ou, First. 

I ndar Fa I Chopra. Second. 

Faivey Snklat, Second. 

Ka isei Sanmd, "third. 

Suhu kiiniicr B'ay, Fust. 

Deuiek ( , i cm * n , Second. 

(Arus Ycxalunln, Third. 

Bullokumai Batman, Second 
Masood HAeler, Second. 

Midul Kamn Kamlam, First. 

*’Arifl Moliammed Moclan, Tliird. 

Kyav . A \ on h. Second. 

Mu/'/ammil Mimed Feio/ie (Ca), First. 
Bashii Knud I ShoiiH', Second. 

A limed Be/a, Second. 

Shamim \hinecl. Second. 

Mnmr lloosein Karmallx . Second. 

.1 Knslmamoe/rt liy. Second. 

K. K i ishnamoort hv, Second. 

Yaradraia Suhratuanuin Third. 

Frafulla* Chandra Deo. Third. 

Thori^mm Brindahan Sinsxh, Third. 

Sit i nd rami t h Ba\ ehandlmri. First. 

Bat lundi anmlnm Mandal, Fust. 

Francis Snrehw, Third. 

Bantov Bose. Second. 

Fi i thu i rat B . i x . First 
Banna hnndia Mandal, First. 

Fa it ha Datta. Fust. 

A run Basil. Second 

Sit ihhuslia.il Datta. Second. 

Dilipkiimar Basil. First. 

S\\ apanknmar De. First. 

Samares Ha vehaudlturi. Third. 

Alokkumar Rasu, Third. 

Nitindrachaiulra Ghosh, Second. 

Krishna Kunuvr Mangalore, Tliird. 

Kanak Chattopaelhvay, Second. 

Bp ay Kumar Tulshan, Third. 

Dirieshwar Singh, Seccvnd. 

( , iridhanlal Khemka. Third, 

J’rithviraj Gulati, Second. 


No., name and division. 

St. Xavier’s College 
ROLL CAL. 

2,379 Slieo KniiuH* Singh, Third. 

33*0 Shut ail Boge, hirst. 

33*1 Sa rah.pt Singh. Second. 

33*2 Santo-di Kumar Maliesliwari , First. 

,i3s 1 A i mi lviiiuai .lajodia. Second. 

•*.3.-3 Mahemli.i Kumar Sanwigi. Second. 

33a<» \ ish \ alia lli "laima, Second. 

33*7 Jugal 1\ isliore Bharat, hirst. 

33 AS Kakshman Singh Dhupia, First. 

33S9 (>m Fiaka-di Goenkn, Second. 

1.39(1 Siidhii Komar .lalan. First. 

3391 F ma Miankai Saiaogi, First. 

.1392 Badhcshx am Kcnnwal K'n), Fu st. 

1393 KailaMi Fivli Chokhanv . Seecmd. 

339 1 Kishan Lai Agarxval. Scs-ond. 

1393 Vacant Kumai Baickli, First. 

339A Bimal Kumai Foddai, Second. 

33FJ Copal Fiasad Mon*. Second. 

3(>U<) Xu mal K 1 1 in ci i I kfhriu al , I hire!. 

‘.GUI Sa l \ a Naraxan Kihora, Second. 

.K,()2 Mum Kumar Gap in. First. 

3003 ()m Fiakash Khaitan, First. 

. lf )< ) 1 Ha tan lad Fa sari. First. 

3003 ( • a nesli Fiasad Singh, Second. 

.loot. La lit Kumar Kliainm. Second. 

3007 Slu i Kiishmi Saiat Second. 

300s ^uic'sh t liaelha. hirst. 

3009 \ ii.ix Kumar (’liadha, First, 

. It , I ( > V -sheik Kimuw Yiimam, First. 

3, 01 ! > h a s h i Kant ILnpal, Fust. 

1012 Mul Kumai Faiekli SeeoncL 
li,l 3 ^Iin am Amndei h’ogla. h’irst. 

(Oil Satxn Fiakash Bavaria. Third. 

3rMG \ i mi Kumar Muiarka Second. 

•GlS hulcluKid Bald, Third. 

3019 < >m Fi akash A^arwal, Third. 

1020 Fni shot tarn Kanoiia. I’lurd. 

31,22 Baieudia Kumar Bina, Tliird. 

»02(, Boopu.ir.lv an Fat wan. Second. 

3(,',l A j i \ a u i ^nuclei Ba|oria* Sec-mid. 

'10 1 1 \iun Kumar ^arall, I Inrd. 

3,i,3, | Sa a I osli Kumai Nop.mx , Third. 

10 10 Yidiunii.il ii .1 humluinwalla Third. 

3c, 37 Bpax Kumai Neinain, Second. 

K,ll \ ipix Kumai Kanodia- h’irst 

3.0 12 Nnlul Kumai Bliartrnv a Seecmd. 

1(»I3 Ishuan I’rasad Kama. Thud. 

It, 19 Bhunuiesh Nandan siiilui, I’lnrd. 

‘?(,32 \ ishv. a N a 1 h Saiml, Secoiicl. 

1031 Hiankai Lull Sadani, Sc-eoncL 
3,03(i Bauaim Lai Mmaika, Sicond. 

.103? ^i ip.tkash Bln, opal. Second 
h‘,3 9 Bluipat Bai Fopihllnl Shan»ihvi. Second 
l(,0O .la \ ant Kumai Bli.ma. Second 
’,(•01 Bakul Ktim Bale slu Sc>eond. 

3.001 N. ix iu< handi a Dahxahhai Fated. I hild 
:U,0S Msulhui * x apra-sacl Barooah. 'I'hud. 

9,90 Mu!„, Bamatli Fllah, Second 


Non CoMer.Udr St i t!rr ts, St. Xavier s Collet 

ROLL CAL. N. 

2 A, 3 (An I Joseph Dc-shruslais, First. 

2A I Bene/, Daiulixxala h’irst 
2 A3 Foru-, Dara Olpadxvala First. 

2^0 S.i.pi Ikn null* Datta, Second. 

2S7 \.t/ir .lilan Hussain T)ossam, First 
2 AS h’.lliv Baxmond Moses. Second. 

2A9 Ba'diunath Srinixasan, First. 

290 Allxx van do ha in llv-Hst, hirst. 

991 Zaheei Ahmad, First, 

202 Alaiiniohan Khosla, First. 

293 Sa*nknr Basil, First. 

291 Bnrinikumar Baksi, St»eond. 

203 Bentamin Laurence Frunklin, Second. 

JOG (’hand Xuin.nui SahjiaL Third 

207 Ashraf /amian. Third. 

29 A Bal hi r t hand Seh^uL Second. 

299 Klim, Benidict DT ruze, Second. 

300 1 1 >rry Hsin Yok Aw, First. 

301 Yezdi Naval Dastnr, Second. 

302 John Samscm David, First. 

303 Sytni Manzur Elahi, Second. 


I’.wrr 111 ] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


119 


No., name and division. 

Surendranath College 
ROLL CAL. 

( .ihi Manabeiidranuth Chukrabarti, Third. 

“ ,I.j \ i ahinda Ku'iisabunik, Third. 

Sndliunkuiiiar Gliorai, 3 birth 
n-j .luy.uipudu Sen, Second. 

, n 1 1 sohhnnUunuir Brahma, Third. 

1 1 , . > Arunkumar ( hakrabart i, Third. 
i,)< Jhlipkuiuar ( 'ha»kraharti , Second, 
r * i .Ivotilal riiukrahai ti. Thud. 

1 7 Alanigopal Ghakrabftrti, Second, 
j -j ] Mndnl Chukrabarti. Third. 

Paritosh Chakraharti, Third. 
i|l N’lrao midas Chandra, Second. 

, , j ■, Dehapada Bhattncharv' a, Third. 

Sauinx cudranat h Bhatt achnry\ a. Third. 
l( 8\ a ina 1 kan 1 1 Blunt Uichuryya, Third. 

-j-,H Arunkanti Bhaiimik, Third. 

',]( 1 Manoran pm Bhmuiuk, Second. 

Mrmalkanti Bhauimk, Third. 

;,1PI \marendianaUi Biswas, Tliird. 

,]!,<; Dilipkmmir Biswas. Second. 

MihHikanti Biswas. Third. 
i# 1 7 1 Sainai krishna Biswas, Third. 

I 7 f ; llimankiiinar Basil, Third. 

7 # 1 77 Bueswar Basil, Second. 

,:oi siihhashranjan Basil, Third. 

-|M,, Binakipiasad Baksi, Thud. 
i ,7 A d 1 1 > aha*i an Baud' opadhyay, Second. 

1 'v A ruuk itinar Baud' optulh.' a,' , II i Kv^n. No. 10171 of 
1059-00), Third". 

-», r,ln>lanat li Baud' opadh.> a # \ , Second. 

■Ji i) I )i! ipk.imar Band' opadli' a.' , 11 (Ue«zn. No. 203:M'> oi 
10.59 (SO), Second. 

•’|n I >i il :i Ichandra Bandyopadh' ay , II (llc^n. No. 10101 
of 197)9-60) . Third. 

YJlii saelimdranath Baud' opadh\ a.' , Third. 

;»jj | l nwalkiimar Band' opadli' av, Third. 

■J ’8 s., ni Iranian Baud ban, Thud. 

V ; | \ i mu an pm Bhadra, Third. 

Yj 1 i Biinulkinnar Bhadra, Third. 

VI ; Bhupendi anat li Bhatt acharvya, Second. 

,*j!| >:ini\iM pmsad Band' opadli' ay, First. 

..’15 Knkaputi Band' opadhya' , Third. 

, *17 Bipiachai an Blni*l t aelin i \ vn . Thud. 

,‘i M- ( Mot 1 aran.jan Biswas, Second. 

1 *MiKiiniiH Blnit I aehary' a . Second. 

Blmpal Chakrahsiili. First 
‘J * Kainalkaiii i ( liaki aliai ti, Second, 
i 1 i' \ il ipada Chaki a hart i, First. 

“» *» I K.uudeh Biswas, Third 
■ ‘i 5 \arcmlriwiaf li Biswas, Second. 

. \-itknniar Bhatl acharyya. Second. 

'• . 7 “■" amalk nshna Basak. Third. 

sisiikiiinai Band,' opadhyax , Second, 
liana pt kuinar Ba«nd\ opadhya' , Tliird. 

•’ 7 ‘ V .1 iheiidi anuth Jhind.N opadhvav, Tliird. 

’7 Pnrtswai Bandyopadli.' st' , Second. 

-'“‘i ^nnilkuniai Adliikari. Second. 

2’ »’> s\\ adesi a n pin Kav. Second. 

•*"■ ’( l A in i ' a'kiinin r M nkhopadh' a,' . Third. 

»f'7 Pam Idem i M nkhopadh.' a' . Second. 

■ 12 .Manas ( i uhnr;n chandhiiri. Second. 

O'* I >i 1 1 pk i j i n ;i i* Kayal, Second. 

• d Manikumar Do, I’hird 

Ai I fineschandra Datta. Seec/nch 
’.'I \ a*ra' ai ichandra Datta, Third. 

> j’’"> Balnilal ( ’ha I topadh.vnx , Third. 

1 1 iran in ay Das, Second. 

• \ -ninkuinnr Das^upla, IT (Kopn. No 20111 of 4959- 

00), Third. 

’ ’’i B»pi' kuinar Das, Second. 

•■■O Bipnlehandra Ghosh, Third. 

■0j "vailosrhandnv Deb. Third. 

J 11, \ar Sm^h Prasad Pawley, First. 

V j' ( 1 Suhrata Hayehaudhuri , Second. 
yd‘* Gahiuda Gunjiopadhyav. Second. 

;J M I ushiirkanti Chandhiiri. Third. 

IMiivnibhushan Dwnri, Tliird 
r ’ j ( d \mnkumar Do, Third. 

^antoshkuninr Gupta. Seeomi. 

‘ ^ Ndiai ranian Chandhiiri, Third 
. Midi handra Saha, Third. 

, ‘/J' Nmnehandra Deb, Third 
Mitkuinai Deb. Third. 

- I*! ^uhnnalkiirnar Das, Second. 

‘ ^ Mitannkuniar Dns, Second. 

1 ^aktipada Das. Second. 

’ 1 BaJnndi anal h Das, l (K'o^n. No, 10478 of 19o0-G0>, 
Second. 

' til* v 1 1 a n i a n Da s , Second. 

Mir ^ ; ncsehandra Das. Second. 

*., K ! ''fdanniohan D»s, Second. 

■,n- b ;, nmkhvalal Das. Third 
i ,/i V^dmadhah Das, ITiird. 

■,‘i. ' n,l 'dmndra Das, Third. 

■>]'>*, ' l,, ; , Jkumar Das, Second. 

^udhansusekbar Chaudhuri, Third. 


No., name and division. 

Surendranath College 

ROLL CAL. 

A l‘J7 Namanai avail Chandhiiri, Kirst. 

■ > I'J^ Nalinn aii.pin (ihaiidhuri. Third. 

AJAJ Saniendrakuiuai Chat Lopadhyay, Second. 

A 1.12 S' ania«l Chattupadhyay , Third. 

A|.‘»l Itahimli akuinar Cliat i.opadh.' ay , Second. 

Alll .I'otinnn,' < ‘hat topadli> ay . Third. 

A IA0 Basudeh < 'hattopadhvay , 'I'lnrd. 

A IAS Kshmliram (Biosh. 'I'lnrd. 

A 1 7A Asutosh (ihosh. Third. 

A474 Asimkuinar Ghosh, Third. 

A 181 Snsilkumar Ga*njz;opadh,vay, Third. 
olS.'i S.dilkninar Ganpopadliya.' , 'Third. 

AliM Sankai kuinar Datta, Second. 

A 199 llaradlian Datt ». Second. 

AAI2 Batlundi akiwita Dhar, Serond. 

AA1(> Snsilkumar De, 'Third. 

AA1S Sumlchandra Dc. ’I lord. 

AA10 Sudhirkuinar Dip Second. 

AA27 MrmaJkanti De, 'Tliird. 

AA,‘12 Bishuupada l)e Third. 

A7> |(» Aj it kuinar Maui, 'I bird. 

AAI7 liana pt kuinar .Malta, Third 
AAIS AU/kkumar Ma'iumdar, Second 
7>AA(» M allot aujan Kar. Second. 

AAA9 (iohindasunilai Kannakar, 'Third. 

.’>1)2 Bikaskumai Kole, Scioml 
A‘>GA Kaliila.s Kiniiai Second. 

AA(*G I’ramat liiHi.it li Kumar, Second. 

•V>77> Kal.' aukuinar Gupta, I I (Kegn. No. 2017)1 ol 4059- 
GU), 'Third. 

.V)8G l)w ipemli a na i a\ an Goswann, 'Third. 

A~>S^ Mamkranian (loswami. Second. 

.V>0.i S\ ama Ipra-sad (iulia, ’Third 
7>7)D | KiraiiMaukai (iiiliarav. Third. 

7)‘»97 l*i ahliat kuinar (iliosli. Second. 

A.‘)0S l*i akaschamlra (ihosh, 'Third. 

7iGn:t S;e*hi mlra ti. 1 1 li Ghosh, Second. 

At ill I SiHiman Gliosli Second. 

7)1 »i I.*) >aukarpi ieail (»hosh. Third. 

AGl 2 'Tusha rkant i (iln/sh, II (Kej-u. No. lOGAAot 10A9-G0) , 
'I hit il. 

AtilO Biswniiiitli ( i hoshdnsl ulin , 'Third 
7)021 'Tusliai kant i Mapinidar, Second. 

.')t)2A Sailenchaudi a .Ma*lakar, 'Thud. 

7)G.‘T4 Asokcliundrii. Mitra, Second. 

7)4 »|0 Viuruddha Mandal, Second. 

A(>V) Bareschandi a Mandal, 'Third. 

7>(C)7 Sadhankuinur Miwnlal, I’hird. 

’Witil ’Tilakianian Mandal, 'Third. 

A Gt/O A sun kuinai M nkhopadh' ay , I (Ke^n. No. 0870 of 
107)8-7)01, I hi ul. 

7>G70 Binialkuinai M ukhopnilh,' a\ , Second. 

5071 Basudeh M ukhopadli' in' . Second. 

A072 Dehlvumar M uUliopadhya' , Tlunl. 

7)07'*' 1 liirailiian M uk hopadli' a' , Second. 

■>0s2 M : 1 1 1 1 n a 1 1 1 Mukho) adli' a> , Third. 

7)080 Nepal* handia M ukltopiwlli' a,' , Third. 

*>0S7 Ninnalkanti M ukhopadii \ ay, 'Thud. 

7)(i0A Sauihlmnalli M ukhopadii' a.' , 1 (Keen. No*. 10.800 of 
I0A0 (it)) Second. 

5008 Suhodlit ha mil a M ukhopadii.' a \ ’Third. 

7>7(H ’I a pimkuiiiiH K.i' I lord. 

7*702 Bliakt l In at. i K'm hai dlian. Second. , 

7)7(18 \iiHiknmai K.i\ cliaudhui i Thud. 

7)705 Mimadii Ka\ chaudlmri 'Third. 

A700 Biadipl' iimai K.i' ch.Hidhun Second. 

.5 7 O'* 1 K •: t li i ndt a na t h ){;i\ ' li.uidli u n . Second. 

.57 1 1 Kamdiilal Kurolnl, Third 
7)71 A Balnilal l‘aiu, 'Thud 
57 1 ^ ' ndkiini.il Kh' 'I lord 

.572 s ' .l.i' ant ..•kumai Ka>. 'Third. 

A 7 20 I Ian pa da K;i' . 'Thud 
A7I8 I ndra nioh.in N.ci. 'Third. 

.5750 Prahliasi handra Nap, Third. 

.5751 Kai t ik'-handi a Nim'h, 'I hud. 

.5750 I lai cknshna Nandi 'Third. 

7)7-57 kakslmiam handra Naskiu , Second. 

•570A Dipakkiiniar Nan, Second. 

5708 Alokianjan Pa-1, Second. 

.5700 Bhiishnnrhandra Pal Second. 

.5770 Madnnmohan P.d Thud 

A77A Nil mall.iuiiar I’al I « Kec.it No 10027 oi I950-G0), 
Thud. 

7.780 Swadc^i aiipiu Pal. Th'rd 
A7s1 SnniPviimiH Pal 'Thud. 

->7 < 7 Dilio Senchaudloii i , >econd. 

.5788 Mantoshknniai Son 'Think 
.5780 Badah'handra Sen. 'Hurd. 

.5701 Siidlnnkurnar Sarknr Seccmd. 

.5702 Kamsaraii Sarkar, First. 

AH00 Aiitkumar Sarkar, II tKe^n. No, 11036 of 1959-GO). 
Third. 

5804 Prndipkumar Sanva l. First. 

7»800 liiswnnatli Santra, Third. 

.5807 Aitiikumnr Sanpluii. Second. 

.5811 Panmal Sehanahis, Third. 



120 


T1IE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. MARCH 29, 1962 


[Part ib 


No., name and division. 

Surendranath College 
ROLL CAL. 

5812 Sunni kununr Saha, Third. 

5816 Madanmohaii Saha, Second. 

5825 Barendrannth Saha, Second. 

5828 Binitchamlra Sarkar, Second. 

5851 Punka*jkmimr Salm, Second. 

5852 Thakurdiis Saha, First. 

58.*18 BihhutihluisTnin Sengupta, Second. 

5850 Bidyutkunmr Sengupta, Socond. 

5815 Manuhendranath Sengupta, Second. 

5850 Arunkumar Sikdar, Second. 

5855 Bal;ira*rri Si I, Socond. 

5855 Sibil a th Si l. Third. 

5864 I’aniiial Smha. Third. 

5866 Rathindraimth Sinha, Third. 

5858 Dulalchandni Sur, Second. 

5875 Pradipkuniur Talukdnr, Third. 

5871 Kana*kkanti Taraphdar, Second. 

5875 Piiriiciulukumar Sinharav, Second. 

5880 Karimamay Sengupta, Second. 

5882 Sunnder .loot Singh, Second. 

5005 Sk. Saretul Islam, Third. 

5010 Suhliashchatidra Sarkar. Third. 

51)15 A. K. Motnajjed Ahmad Faruque, Kecimd, 

5!) 1 5 Ammdi Sheikh, Tliird. 

51)58 Dchasish Sen. Third. 

5D5D Itnnalkuniar Sengupta, Third. 

51)12 Sadhankumar Sinha, Third. 

5045 A. M. Fa/.lur Rahman, Third. 

51)54 Gnu tarn Songupia, Second. 

51)50 Dolinbrata Bal, Second. 

505 J Pn*rimalohamlra Band.vopadhyn v, Third. 

5065 Praln rkumar Bundyopailhyay , Tliird. 

5068 Samhlmnath Banik, Tliird. 

5060 Ajitkumar Basil, Second. 

51)71) DehapraKiid Bhattacharyva , Third. 

51)82 Sisnknmar Blia-t tacharyya. Third. 

5085 Siidliansnkumar Bhattacliarvva, Third. 

5085 Ahinaschandra Bhaumik, Second. 

5087 Nimaichaiid Bhunia, Third. 

5000 Mahendrnnath Biswas, Third. 

5007 Bmaykninar ( 'hakraharti, Third. 

5000 ( 'hittaranjan Chakrabarti, Tliird. 

5001 Bnnamali Bbattacbaryya, Third 

5002 Naroshchundru Bliftit.ncha»ryyn, Second 
5005 Ammeshchandra Bandvopadhyay, Third. 

5011 Sy iimalkumur ( ‘bakraharti, Second. 

5015 Amalknina-r Chattopadhyny, Third. 

5017 Bimalendn Chat topadh.vay. Third 

5018 Mihirkumar Cliatbopadh.yay, Third. 

5020 Sanatknmar Chattopadhyay , Third. 

5021 Sihmith Chattopadhvav, Third. 

5022 Snsilknmar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

5025 Raiijiikiimar Chandhnri, Third. 

5020 Dipnk Dasgupta, Third. 

5050 Kullolkumar Dnsgupta, Third. 

5051 Bugahikumar Re, Third. 

5055 Pa ritual i Re, Third. 

5058 Snnirmal Re, Third. 

5015 Asok Gaiigorpadhyav, Second 
5010 Ajaykuinar Chaudhuri, Tliird. 

5050 Achintyakrishiia Chat topadhyuy , Second. 

5052 Mmlhusudan Chanda*. Tliird. 

5050 Bi.ju\ Unmar Bandyopndhva.v, Tliird. 

5051 Rebdas Bnmlvopadhyay, Third. 

5055 Doha prasacl Tbiidvara-v, Third. 

5075 Samblinnat li Bhattacharvya, Third. 

5071 Santirnnjan Bhatt m-hnrvya*. Third. 

5002 Narendi aknninr Rns. Second. 

5005 Nirmalknmar Ras, Third. 

5007 Amaromlnvnath Bbattacbaryya, Second. 

5008 Anamlnrnm Biswas. Third. 

5101 Suptk limn r Rns, Third. 

5102 Binaykrishna Bbamnik, Third. 

5101 A sit Chakra hart i, Third. 

5105 Amodkumar Agrnwal, Second. 

5112 Samirkanti Re, Second. 

5115 Suhlia*slichandrn Re. Third. 

5120 \malcmln Gangopadhyay, Third. 

5125 Susobhan Gangopadhyav. Third. 

5125 Pranabknmar Gbat-ak, Third. 

5120 Biptlibbiisban Gliodi. Third. 

5151 Maniklnl Ghosh, Third. 

515.") Tusharkn*nt i Ghosh. 4 (Regn. No. 10652 iff 1950-60), 
Third. 

5155 M a n ora n jun Ghoshal, Third. 

5140 Anilknmar Hor, Second. 

51 12 Bibhntibhnshnn Kolve, Tliird. 

6145 Ramescbnndrn Knndn, Third. 

6144 Satiprasnd Lahiri. Third. 

6152 Sitaram Gnptft, Third. 

6155 Hari pra®ad Goyal Achal, Second. 

6154 Nigamranjan Mohanty. Third. 

6155 K. P. Gopalakrishna, First. 

6156 Antony K. V. Kulangara, Fimt, 

6157 Krishnnlal Mitra, Second. 


No., name and division. 

Surendranath Collage 
ROLL CAL. 

5100 Mantoshkumar Ghatak, Third. 

5151 Anilknin&r Ghosh, Second. 

5152 Asitknmar Ghosh. Third. 

5158 Re ha hr a ta Ghosh, Second. 

5175 .fndnhchandra Ghosh, Third. 

5180 Atdiaypnda Ghoshal, Second. 

618 1 Jagannuth Haidar, Third. 

51 85 Xalinikanta llaldar, Third. 

5100 Asokknmar Aliwtra, Second. 

5100 Pradipkumar Alitra, Second. 

5207 Nirmalyaprasad Pal, Third. 

5215 Narayanprasad Mukliopadhyay, Third. 

5218 Nripeudranath Nandi, Third. 

6225 Syainalkrishna Poddar, Third. 

5220 Kisorimohan Pramanik, Tliird. 

5257 Paritoshhihari Bay, Second. 

( >258 Prahbatknmar Ray, Third. 

5250 SadhanchsMidra Ray, Second. 

5245 Bimulkrislina Saha, Second. 

5248 Batakrishna Sanphui, Third. 

5250 Phnnihhnshan Sarkhel, Third. 

5255 Alilurkanti Sarkar, Second. 

6250 Sudamcliamlra* Saha. Second. 

(>285 Snsilknmar Ray, Second. 

(5201 Bnnjitknmar Sarkar, Third. 

6501 Molln Abdnl Mannan, Third. 

5505 Aid. Rahmatnllah, Third. 

5515 S. Sekandar Abbas Mnsawi, Third. 

5510 Ha*[lhakrislmaii R'amasiibrarnniiyan, Second. 

5525 Snbnlchandrn Ratta, Second. 

6524 Asitkumar Chakrabarti, Third. 

1*526 Sanrindraprasanna Acharyya, First. 

(>527 Kamalknshiia* Chakrabarti, First. 

(>'128 Kami Idas Ghosh, Second. 

(i 120 'rnhinkanti llera. Third. 

5 150 Ribakar .Tha, Third. 

5552 Satyemlranath Haidar. Third. 

5555 Rilipknmar Ratta. Third. 

6551 Mnknmhclal Bhattacharvya, Second. 

5550 .lagatbiindhu Bandyopadliyay. Third. 

5512 Xamlalal Chakrabarti, Socond. 

6511 Bathindraiiarayan Chakrahiirti, Third. 

6557 Prabhatknmar (Joswnmi, Third. 

6561 Baiisibndan Alandal, Socond. 

6562 Rmi.voilhan Alandal. Third. 

64(U Aa-gadischandra Alandal, Third. 

6555 Taharmohan Rasguptn, Third. 

5566 Knslimigopul Ha,iru, Tliird. 

6560 Vijay Kumar Khanua, Third. 

5572 BircHchamlrn Bliattaeliaryyn*, Third. 

6575 Sunirmalkumar Rav, Second. 

6571 Atindranath Manna. Second. 

6577 Sudbansukumar Sarka*r, Third. 

6578 Sa mares Nag, Second. 

5570 Narny anchnndra Ras, Third. 

6580 Alalayktimar Rasgupta, Third. 

OAK 1 Sailemlnvnath Ratta, Third. 

6587 Paritosh Sarkar, Second. 

6488 Mad hu sudan Kom. Third. 

6505 .hot.inmln Mitra, Third. 

6501 Bhaniiprnsnd M ukhopadliyay , Third. 

6508 Aruiikumar Ray, Third. 

6102 Aruiikumar Sarkar, I (Rogn. No. 4050 of 1050-60). 
Third. 

6105 Bameswivr Sin ha ray. Second. 

6101 Aid Shahnhnddin. Second. 

6114 Alokkiimar Alukhopadhyiiv, Second. 

6110 Rann iitkiimar Bandyopndhyav , Second. 

6120 Banajitknmar Runri, Second. 

6121 Gopah-handra* Naskar, Third. 

5 122 K rishna kali Pal. Thinl. 

612.4 B'aniitkumar Banrlvopftdhvay, Third. 

6121 Satyanaraynn Chakrabarti, Second. 

6420 Ln*ksliininara.vnn Basak, Third. 

6452 Snkumnrcliandra Re, Third. 

6154 Prithwiswar Kan sari. Third. 

61.48 Samirknmar Poddar, Second. 

6140 tlimansiikumar Ran, Third. 

6111 Paranchandra Saha, Third. 

6117 Aid. Tivzul Tslam, Tliird. 

6151 Prabi rkumar Ray, Rwond. 

6451 Siirya Nandan Prosad, First. 

6161 GbolniTi Rasul. Third. 

6462 Gbohnn Afustnfa. Tliird. 

0400 Amalkumar Bandvopadhyay, Third. 

0111 Pi asantakumar Ray, Third. 
n 415 Arunharan Ras, Third. 

0116 Rilipkumar Ras, Third. 

0417 Putinhihari Ratta, Second. 

0410 Suehitkuinar Majumdar, Third, 

0420 Sambhunath Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

0426 Tarunkumar Chakrabarti, Third. 

9427 Anadinath Basil. Third, ^ 

9429 Arunkuntar Bandyopadhyav, I (Regtt. No. 
1958-59), Third, 

9452 K. Narayanawami, Third. 



THE CAIA3UTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


121 



No., name and division. 

Surendranath College 
ROLL HAB. 


>((|t( jKbkiinmr Chakrabarti, Third. 


ROLL NAI. 

^ Viiilmrsimdar Nag, Third. 


ROLL UTTAR. 

(jdkulthandra Manna, Second. 


»i‘.i 

3.51 

8<5‘> 

i,Vi 

;W’'» 

I’M i*_ ) 
}>1M -’i 
Hi 

iit ; *. 

.VI I 




;;; m 

;;; *i 


II 


PmI.'I 


Vm'K 

Mil, 

|;m >•) 

. '■ji i 
Mlil, 
Mj't 

.‘H(, 

?KVJ 

f'-M 

Sw;i 

‘N*. 

?K: 

fK-. 

fF7(i 

8k7*i 

i^H 

SVKiT 

aap 

s*n*j 

!*>r, i - 
" r )!!i 

r*'Ji 

I'^r, 

I't'hV) 

-?*5 

|f%) 


ROLL CAL. F. 

\ nit ii Ghosh, Second. 

I ma Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

Knshnn Dsitta, Second. 

I > , , 1 1 1 ;i Clmndhuii, 11 (Rogn. No. 131455 oi 1957-58), 
Third. 

Hrhsi Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

K.dpnna Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

Mum Basil. Second. 

Pratima Chakrabarti, Third. 

Miiiiisha Lahiri, Third. 

>.1(11011111 Raychuudhwri, Second. 

ablia Bandyopadhyay, Third, 
pr.itima Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

\nima Bagchi, Third, 
smluira Rsiyclmudhuri, Third. 

!*.i 1 1 ( J liosh, Third. 

|).ili (Jliosii, 'riiircl 
( .,1 u 1 1 (liisuami, Third. 

M.inoi.una (Blush. Third. 

M;iva Saikar. Third, 
i.iui S.iikar, Third 
s.nllmna Bay, Third. 

Ih-li. i (* liosh. Third. 

N 1 1 1 ma Ghosh, Third. 

Mnuti Ghosh, Third. 

.lut h i U a Datta, Thud. 

Biilnka Dr. Third. 

1 1 elrii ChaUraharii, f Piii l <! . 

■'■up.nna Basil, Third. 

Mamii Ghosh, Thiid. 

^uMinlii Ghoshnn , Third 

Hi. inm Ibil, II (Uegn. No 6476 o| 1959-60), Third 
C lii.iji.n Bill. Tlnnl. 

( *1 1 1 ia \ ’i Rakshit, 'I’hird. 

I lima Ba>, Third. 

N Mina Saha, Third. 

Oita S.irkai , Third 
Br.lnsim Snr, Third 
Namhtii Tluikurtn, Third. 

Malhka ( 'ha itdhuri , Second 
;i Cli.nidlmn, Thiid. 

Duma Das, Third. 

Ibislipa D.es, Thiid. 

^>l,i Dasgupla, Third, 
ndiabi Duttr*, Third, 
ikon (ihosh. Second. 

ID Ghosh Third. 

I'm lipiii ,mi Khan, Second. 

Ih , b:i liiihiri. Thud 
I *»lia Mitra, Third. 

''•nili Maitra. Kef ond 
bii'Mi M ukhopiulliyay , Third. 

'bin. i M ii k lif >pa rill \ ay , 'I'hird. 

Min, i M ukhopiidlix a,\ . Third. 

‘ mi. • Saha Third. 

Dim Chanda, First 
iidir.i Mukhopadliyay, Sceond. 

I m i Niyogi, Second. 

Duma Gaugopadhyay, Third, 

A nu si la Bay, Third. 

‘Milan rani Bhamnik, Third. 

M;ir\ Biswas, Second. 

ohai ati Chattopadhyav, Third. 

,n ' n Guha, Third, 
oinika Majumdar, Second. 

Mmat, Pal, Third. 

Bay, Third. 
v lp, i* rival. Third. 

Ghosh, Second. 

•ni»a Ohaudhuri (Mrs. Das), First. 

•'Midi Mukhopadhvav, Second. 

,; ona Pal, | (Begn No. 0475 of 1959-60), Third, 
^ndl.va (handa. Second. 

Mue" »," ha ’ So, ' or,<1 - 

p., 1 pbnttachnryya, Third. 

Ihi‘i\ ,St \ ^^MiUacharyyn. Third. 
ikl (1 '^ittopadlivay , Second. 

Jliuina Dnlta? Thir.l, 


No., name and division. 

Surendranath college 
ROLL CAL. F. 

13941 Abha Dattachaudhuri, Third. 

.1947 Kalyani Dus, Second. 

;3949 Ahuti Sengupta, Third. 

13950 Beba Sil, Second. 

9954 Bibharani Mitra, Second. 

9955 Manjun Chattopadhyay , Third. 

9958 PutuI Bakshit, Third. 

9959 Namit.a Gangopadliyuy , Second. 

3962 Sila Ghosh, Second. 

9909 .Jyotsna Gupta, Tliird. 

3965 Sarbani Raychaudhuri, Third. 

9907 Manisha Bay, Second. 

9974 Lily Dasgupta, Third. 

NOn-ooliegiate Student, Surendranath College 
ROLL CAL. N. 

907 Sunilkumar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

908 Chowdhury Miiharnnmd Mohsin, Third. 

921 Prangopal Das, Third. 

929 Biuiulendti Glioshray, Third. 


8uri Vidyasagar College 
ROLL BIRB. 

1 Kalisunkar Tliakur, Second. 

9 •luguthaudhii Malakar, Tliinl. 

4 Urnnsankar Ailhikari, Second. 

( j Bnihhat Kumar Datta, Third. 

12 N and ad u la] Mandal. Tliird. 

I l Aumlkumar Ghosh, Tliird. 

15 Rctmpndu llajra, Second. 

IS Saktipadn (ihosh. Third. 

B» Anantailch Bandyopadhyay. Second. 

2<> Siisilkuiuar (iarai, First . 

21 Aiuulvai atari (inrain. Second. 

22 Anuyakmuar (Sliatak, Third 

29 l*m tiachamlra Mukhopadliyay , Second. 

21 Paresnath Mitra, Second. 

27 Aruukuniar Batidvopadln ay , Thiid. 

28 Buga la prasad Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

29 1’iisha rkaut i M ukhopadhyax , Third. 

90 Bit hindraldiiisaii Mandal, First. 

92 Aiuainath Sa.rkar. First. 

99 Anmkmiiai Sengupta, First. 

91 (Jangadhar Mandal, First. 

90 Bhiijangahhusan Ghosh, Thiid. 

97 (ihanasyarn Mukhopadliyay, S<*i*onil. 

99 Bitaykuniar Mandal, Second. 

II Sk A Iml Kiisern, Tliinl. 

19 Ahdul Kanin, Second. 

50 Jayanta Ghaudhuri, Thud. 

51 N irina lendu Bandyopadhyay, 'I'hird. 

55 Manoinnliaii Das, Third. 

56 Masudai Balianiau, Sceoml. 

57 Dilipkumar ( !hat topadhyay , Second 
.59 Bnndahan Datta, Second 

62 Dinnhaudhu Karinitkar. Third. 

69 Mahamniad Alxlullah, Sceoml. 

61 t,)ua/.i Korhan Ali, Sceoml. 

66 Bakshakar Mandal, Second. 

69 Baiiicliandra Dhar, Thiid. 

71 Saratkumnr Bishnu, Second 

72 Lakshmanchairdm Das, Sciornl. 

79 Kanailal Datta. Thiid. 

85 Prasantak lunar Sen, S(‘coml. 

86 Xsishkiirnar Sengupta, Second. 

99 Nitaiehandra Pal, Third. 

95 Manornnjan Mandal, Second. 

99 Nirmalkuniar Mukhopadln nv, Second. 

101 Sunilkumar Mandal, Second. 

104 Kslureswar Mandal, Tlnnl. 

105 Apurhakuinar Das, Second. 

106 Nahagopal Pas, Second. 

10!^ Bamchandrn De, Second. 

115 Bijanhihari Chakrabarti, Second. 

116 Kamalakanta Chakrabarti, Third. 

117 Tarapada CUiaudhuri, Second. 

119 Sailendrachandra Das, Third. 

121 Muktisank3i Bishnu, Third. 

129 Kantinath Bandvopadhvay, Tliird 
124 Mukulchandra G a rain. Second. 

126 Badalchandra Ghosh. Second 
129 Nilmani Bhattacharyya Third. 

190 T>ipakkumar Bhattacharvva, Second. 

191 Krishnagopal Bandyopadhvay , Second 
139 Nttyanarayan Pramanik, Third. 

142 Garigadhar Bhattacharyya, Third 
149 Nitaiehandra Girin, Third. 

145 Parthasnrathi Ghosh, 'Phird. 

1 17 Shaikh Seki'iidar Hossain, Third. 

149 (ihulani Rahman. Second. 

153 Sk. Fatik, I (Regn No. 4979 oi 1969-60). I bird. 

154 Shaikh Ali Hossain, Second. 



THK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


122 



No., name and division. 

8uri VWyasagar Collage 
ROLL BIRB. 

100 Debi prasad Maharaj, Third. 

1<V4 Sashthidus M ukhnpadhyny, Third. 
107 Anamlagopal Mamlal, Third. 

|(>H Prabirkuiiiar Mamlal, 'Third. 

170 Amivakurnar Mamlal. Thud. 

171 i I imaiisusok hai Mamlal, Second. 

172 llaridas Kandi. Third 
17d Basudeh Mamlal, Second. 

170 Bhubaneswar Ray, Third. 


ROLL BIRB. F. 


1 (Ihhahi Mnkhopadhyav, Third. 

2 Naniita Dehi, Second. 

7 Anmadha Hay. Third. 

S Sadhana Chnudhiin. Third. 

0 (’haiidana Adhikan, Ihird. 

10 dhania Ghosh, Second. 

!l Hetiuka Hha 1 1 aeharvya . Secom 
12 Prat miii Mitra, Second. 

14 A < 1 1 1 1 Mukhopadhyay, II (Kegii. No 
00), Secomi. 

10 ( Milan a M ukhopndhx ax , Second. 

18 San t u ana Hand vopadh> ax Tliird. 

21 Kalvani Das, Tlnrtl. 

21 Kalp.ma Senj.’iiptu , Second. 

25 Ai cliana Sarkar. Secomi. 

27 Bulbul Hay, Thud. 

28 Mira Nath, Third. 

40 Sipia M ukliopadb va\ , Sciond. 

42 (la hit M ukhopndhx a> , Tliiiil. 

Ill Suhhra M ukhopadhx ay. Third. 

;?“> Bihha Ghosh, 'Third. 


4042 ol l!>od 


Syamsundar College 
ROLL 6Y AM. 

1 Suhlicmln Mukhopndhynx , Third. 

0 .1 ay kali Sarkar, Thml. 

14 Susan! oshkninar Das. hirst. 

1 1 Amalkrishna dhattopadhyav, Second 
| r, Bagnhtpada Bhattachary.va First 
10 Harisankar Betal. hirst. 

17 Kart-ikchandra Adhikari, Third. 

18 Mahadch Soil). Second 

10 Rat hindranat h Mukhopadhyay, Second. 
28 1 1 miadrikumar Datta, Second. 

,40 Manojkumar Rax, 'Third. 

42 Tushtupadn Namli ’Hurd. 

44 Aladhusiidan Medda, Third. 

44 Syamsundar .las, 'Third. 

40 Hamaprasad Sil. Thud. 

40 Sudlnrkuinar Kinidii, . Third. 

. r >4 Syamsundai Datta, Third. # 

AS 'Tarunkumai Bnmlvopndhyax , Third. 

50 Mir (Miami Ah, llnrd. 

04 Pranabkumai Haksi, Third. 

0 1 Hiswanath Naxak, ’Thud 
00 Shaikh Abdul (,)uddus. 'Tliird. 

08 Madhailal Kbaii, Second. 

00 Ja^abamlbu Map, 'Third. 

70 Gokulchandra Mamlal, Secomi. 

74 Madanniohan Sinha. Second. 

74 Sk. Ahdul Halim, Tliird. 

70 Alnhadoh Samanta, Third. 

77 Sachcliidananda Samanta, Third. 

51 Taiapada Hay, Third. 

82 Kamalakanta Hay, Second. 

88 llansadhan Kiimlu, Thirtl. 

80 Promananda Konar, Third. 

00 Jihandhan Kmiai , Third. 

01 Gan^adhar Karmakar, Third. 

07 Haradhan Band.vopadhyay, Third. 

100 Saktipada Kaipha, First. 


Taki Govt. College 
ROLL TAKI. 

1 Samirkumar Datta, First. 

2 Pradipkumar De. Second. 

A Sripati Haidar, Second. 

(f Bhaheschamlra Dalai, First. 

7 Md. Sadequo All, Thirtl. 

0 Md. Ahdul Khnlek. Third. 

11 Pasupati Bandyoiiadhvay, Third. 
14 Ajilkiminr Raycliaiidhuri, Third. 

1,5 Md Fnish Ali, Third. 

10 Dilipkumar Das, Third. 

18 Md. Azi/ail Hnque. Third. 

10 Md. NaoHer All, Third. 

20 Ajaykumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

21 Jaykuroar Santra, Second. 

22 Abanibbusban Mabanti, Third, 


No., name and division. 

Taki Govt. College 

ROLL TAKI F. 

4 Nihcditu Bhattacharyya, First. 

A Sankari Kundu, Third. 

0 Dipti Basu, Second. 

ROLL BAR. F. 

40 Mira Ruypaladhi, Second. 


Tamluk Tamralipta Mahavidyalaya 
ROLL TAM. 

1 Paramcsvxar Pramaiiik, Second. 

2 Gaurhari Pramaiiik, Second. 

4 Godithabihari Maiti, Second. 

1 Mailt iilal Pradhan, Third. 

7 Ivartikcliamlra Bijjli. Third. 

0 Bishnupada Giri, Second. 

II Bnlaidas Hsiv. Second. 

14 Apt k u mar Mandal, 'Third. 

10 Aswinikuinar Das, Second. 

27 Sat ischandra Him ix an, -Third 
20 Praphullakumar Maiti, First. 

40 Asutosh Das. First. 

41 N it \ ana m la Maiti, Secomi. 

42 Kumarnai avail Panda, Secomi 
41 Adhirehamlra Kar 'Third. 

4 A Hamcliamlra Dhara (Ga), First. 

40 Aswinikuinar Gh.ita, Second. 

40 .In^adischamlra Das, 'Third. 

40 Haripada Maiti, Second. 

11 \mulyaratau .Maiti. Second 

14 Prahhatkumar Khania. Thiid. 
j.A Prabodhchandra Das 'Thirtl 
10 Supabitra Das, Third. 

18 Dhucmlranatb Maji, Third. 

4 1 > K.ripasimlbu Had, First. 

A 4 Gaurisankar Manna. Second. 

AA Nayani anpin Manna, 'Third. 

A 7 Adbarcliaiidra Samanta Second. 

00 Badalkumai Bora. Second. 

01 Haranaraxan Dhara. Second 
04 Sacbindranal b Namla, Third. 

04 Sureschandra Gin, Secomi. 

(iO Mohinirnnpm Mamlal, Second. 

07 ( Tiittarama n Bern, Second. 

08 Haiipada Bliamnik. Third. 

00 Habimlranal ii Mamlal, 'Third. 

70 Taramkanta Bern, Second. 

72 Sukumar Satpati. Second. 

74 Satxaranian Das Second 
74 Bimalkuimir Haysinha, Third. 

70 Mi it.x unpiv Paria, 'Third. 

78 (iopinath Mamlal. Secomi. 

70 M anmathanat h Das. Second 

80 Tulasicharau AdJnkari. Third. 

81 Harckrislma Samanta, Second. 

82 Sukumar Maiti 'Third 

HA Ratanehnndia Maiti, Third. 

.80 Dulalchandra Maiti. Second 
.87 Sukumar Das. Second 
88 Paritnsh Karmokar, Tliird. 

80 Gopnlchandra Goswnim, Third 

01 Bhnratehamlrn Pradhan, Third. 

04 Suha Ichatidra Pinmanik, Second 
0A A i link a id i Mitra, Third. 

00 Hanjitkumar Das. Third. 

08 Puranian Chanda. Second. 

00 Shasht Indus Mamlal. Second. 

100 Rajijdkuniar Dhar, Second. 

101 Asishkuinar .lana. Third 

102 Manindranath Bhakta, Second 
lot Hana jilkumar Samanta. Second 
105 Bnnnnialieharan Khatua, Second. 

100 Gaurhari Haira, Second. 

100 Jitendranath Mnndal. Second. 

110 Ban^ahhushan Khanra, Third. 

III Harekrishna Samanta, Second. 

112 Santoshkumar Das, Second. 

115 Mn/.a Ohidur Bnhamnn Bog, Secomi. 
110 Dulalchandra Bern, Second. 

110 Pmakiranian Maiti, Second. 

121 Bank imehandrn Patlanayak, Second. 

122 ( Ti inma.v kurnar Maiti, Second, 

1 1*4 Susilkiirnar Santra, Third, 

121 Manasranian Jann. Third. 

125 Bishnupada Nayak, Third. 

127 Saehindranath Maiti, Second, 

120 Sudarsan Das, Third. 

130 Sagarchamlra Gurya, Second. 

131 Saurindramolian Jana, Second, 

134 Mrityuniay Sinha, Third. 

137 Haripada Tripathi, Third. 

143 Bibekananda Gborai, Second, 



\'\Hl IB] 


THE OAI^CTJTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


123 


^ — — 

No., name and division. 

Tftmluk TamraHpta Mahavldyalaya 
ROLL TAM. 

ill Dhirendranath Das, Third. 

II* ( 'hittaraiijan Sasmal, Third. 

1 | t ; Kalipuda Ghosh, Second. 

I 1 7 Nani nopal Sasniul, Second. 

I |- Pnsupati Puhnri. Third. 

I'd Sarojkiunnr ('hakrubart i, Third. 

].*,| GhiLtarunjan Maiti, Secoml. 
l’-.j (iaurhari Pattanayak. Second. 

I Gaurunga Maiti. Third. 

I , ; .litcndrakuniar Kay. Second. 

1., (i Saro.ikumar Panu, SccoikI. 

|i,*j Kanailal Maiti, Third. 

1.. ] Prabhatkumar l>as. Second. 

|i, ( , Kishnnpada Maiti, Second. 

H,7 Kisorirainan Mandal, Second, 
i 71 1 SisirUtimar Khauniik, Secoml. 

,71 IJahindranntli Das, Second. 

I7j Sudhansusekhar Pradhan, Third. 

1 7", Snkuniar Maiti, Secoml. 

177 (iaurhari Maih. Third, 
j x | A|itkuma.r Mallik, Secoml 
]v > Snmnaii llap a. Third. 

|s7 Gaiurndhnr Pradhan, Third. 

|S" ( lMiidramohan Mandal. Secoml. 

|sj Gobimlaprasad Mandal, Second, 
mi Snuih'ischamlra Patra. Third. 
l‘i;i Dihakai Achary\a. Third 
iw- Itadalchandra Maji, Third, 
jol Maricharun Das, Second. 

•ji * ’ M a noiiiohan Chakraharti Third. 

.’iii Suhalchamli a Adhikari. Second. 
ju‘, Phudehchandra Misra, Secoml. 

•ji>7 Sk Kaliuiuddm, First, 
jus ll.ilaieharaii Mandal, First. 

•jlu Pam hanan Maiti, First. 

•J1 1 Kipi \ ki ishna Gm hhait. Second, 
jpj Aliantikinnar Nanda, Second. 

*j 1 (iaurhari Pars a. Third 

JI 1 II imansusekhar Maih, Third. 

Jls Nepal Chakrabarti. Third. 

JJU Paiikaihlmshan Hera, I'hird. 

JJI Kt'islmaprasad Piadhan, Thud. 

JJ ’> Pimlx otkumar Das, Third. 

JJI 1 larckrislina Maiti, Second. 

JJ7 sakiipuda Maiti, Third. 

J , ’f> Pr:ihladkun>ar Naynk. Second. 

JJ* Uadhanath Guchhait. Second. 

JJb Saihalkmnar Maiti, Third. 

J W* Pai cm hamli a Khauniik. Second. 

J i‘i (Jam hari Maili, Second. 

J>1 •lammikantu Maiti. Third. 

J I’ • Sasankasckhar Sil, Third. 

J ‘.7 Mukundaraiu Kandar, 'I'hird. 

Pasupati Jana, Second. 

‘-Mb Nuaiiian (ihosh Second. 

‘-’ll P id 1 11 hi hari Mandal. Third. 

JI7 \111.1lesku1uar Maili, Second 
*T' Hadahhandra Maiti. Second. 

-> lk "'iikdch Map, Secoml. 

-J- M.ihadch ( 'liaki aharti, Second. 

- » '• l.akslnnikanta Piadhan. Second. 

-»i Turn 1 h.n an Kay. Second. 

- ’ 1 A males .lana. Second. 

S' amelia i an Maili. Second. 

J j Subalsakha Pradhan, Second. 

^ S' Anilkumar Sainanta, Second. 

7 1 ' ’ Fkadasicharan Alaiti, Second. 
Ihhekananda Giri, Second. 

^««hi.»< hamira Pranianik, Second. 
Kahindranat li Sainanta, Second 
7,-., Ihl'I'k iiinar Adhikari, Second. 

Nsejemlranath liana. Third. 

7," Ihiiabandhu Jana, Third. 

''Uia vku mar Khauiuik, Second, 
^latmdranath Mai, Second. 

1 Susilkiiinar Das, Third. 


ROLL TAM. F. 

Maniust i Giri, First. 

'■•inn Sarkar, Third. 

' ahna Das, Third. 

AI nn;i hm Ghorai, Third. 

Das, Third. 

Maiti, Second. 

!, ,' a Ghakrabart i, First. 

'inn a .la mi. Second. 

Jiarkana Das, Second. 

' hhaya DaHadhikari, Third. 
PMiuka Giri, Third. 

Nhan, Maiti, Second. 

1 Tti Dasgupta, Second, 
i-f 11 C: hakrabarti, Third. 

-«ma Nayak, Second. 


No., name and division. 

Tamluk Tamralipta Mahavldyalaya 
ROLL TAM. F. 

22 Kijaylakslimi Ghoiai, Third. 

2d Nandita K.iy, Second. 

24 llela Jana. Third. 

J/> Krishna Kora, Seiond. 

28 l ttara Ghakrabarti, Tliiid. 

2b Gauri Setipupta, Second. 

;«> Sobhaua Kl.aumik, Fust. 

JI Madliabi Kliatua, Thud. 

,‘U Sila Munsi. Thud. 

:F» Kenuka Maiti. Second. 

:47 Saibalini N mda, Second. 

;IS llaripnya Khuyian. Third. 

11 Kalpana ( ‘liaki abarti. Third. 

12 Kidyut Paliai i, Secoml. 

U Jyol sna Manna. Thud. 


Tangrakhali Bankim Sardar Coiiego 
ROLL CAL. 

1781 Phulcliand Mandal, TliirJ 
I 7S 1 Nakiilcliumli a Mandal, Secoml, 

170U D.inmdai liablar. Third. 

I 7t> 1 Narayaiichumlra Das, Second. 

1 75 Hi Samirkanti Mahanta, Third 
1708 Saiuit kujuai Khakla, Third. 

|S02 Kanptkumai Mandal, Sc**oml. 

ISO I M adhahchandi a Smha. Set mid 
I8tl<‘> N iraiijaiikiimar Saiiphni, Second 
1SU7 I laranchamlra Mandal, Tim'd. 
bSl I Gopaleham h a liar. Thud 
ISIS Kijuykuina i Naskar, Thud 
1S2J Siklndhvvai Pal 1 anayak . Second. 

1S2(» lliramkuinar Mandal, Third. 

182b Kmayki ishna Ka\ , Third 
lSdl lihiipendraiial h Aj'uyui, Third, 
is: 12 Shasld liieharan Mandal Third. 
iSdd Madhusmbm Kiswas, Second. 

I s:J7> Kua,\ kiiniar Datta, Second. 
jSd(» Makhanlal Das, Second. 

18.‘17 Khajjprnlh Mandal. Third 

IS.' lb ( Tamil akanl a Hat Second 

IS If) Soimiath M nkhopadh> ay , Secoml. 

1 S lb Prahhatkiran llaldai, Third. 

1 S7)0 Ganapati Mandal, Third. 

I S.*» 1 Kanailal Kav, Second 
4 SoS Susilkumar Kiswas. Second 
18(11 Dihakai Pali a. Second. 

1S72 Suhalehandra Sainanta, Second. 
lH7o Khnsilal Mandal. Second. 

187(5 Sachchulananda Kaval, Third. 

IS77 Gopikanta Santra, First. 

1S7S Sadhancbandra Mandal. Second. 

IS 7b Ataykumar M a-nilal , Second. 

1HS0 < 'hit! nrnnjan Haidar. Third 
lSsj Sneharati Das. Third 
18875 Aiitkmnar Haidar, Second. 
lKbl Aswinikurnar Patra, Secoml 
lSb:l Asvviniknniar Miwidal, Secoml. 
jwov Kanailal Mapimdar, Secoml. 
l v< »b Kanailal Haidar, Third. 

1 bO 1 Arulkiiniai Das Third 

IbOd llihhntihhuslian Haidar Third 

101 I Haiamhamlra Sardai, Thirtl. 

Ibl‘1 Pniaineswar Pali a Third 

P'l 1 Hirnaiisiisckhar Harman, Second 

lbl7 Snliadehchamii a Miiiman. Tlnnl. 

1010 Piilinchamlra Hail. Third. 

1020 Dehnprasad Haidar. Thinl 
1027 Ha sail I akuma i Mandal Second 
102S Gurupada Sardar Thud. 

1020 Anadiknmai Kamhu sc»coml 
Ibdl Siiikiiniai (Javen Third 
lbdl Aptkumar Sirdn. Second 
1012 Sanka riprasad Haidar Second. 

Ibid Nirapada Haidar. Thud 
Ibid Dhil endi anatli Purkail. Thud. 

IblS Knnsarilnl Aland'd, Second 
lboH Hansarnnohan Naskar. 1'lmcl 
IbTid Satischamlra llhanja Third. 

1 bod Stidarsnn Mandal. kirst. 
lbJ7 Nisi kail I a Sardar, l 4 brst 
irr>S Ganeschandra Mandal, Sccoii'l 
Ibdb Tarapada Sanpni, Sec*ond. 

Ibdl ( 'haudhurimoha n Naskai. Second. 
lb(}*J Hrishikes Patta, Third. 

1 f If Jo llidvuikumai Haidar Thud 
IbdH Nimaichand Sardai. Third, 
lbdb Nisikanta Haidar, Third 

1070 Aniritalal Mislri. Second. 

1071 Prasanl aknmai Haidar, Second. 

1075 Sudhansu^ekhar Maji, Second. 

1078 Prahodhkumar Mandal. Third. 

1979 Jyotishchandra Haidar, Third 

1980 Kartikchandra Mapdal, Second- 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


fPMU IB 


121 


No., name and division. 

Uluberia College 
ROLL ULU. 

3 Krishnapada Si, Third. 

4 Kusadhwaj Klianra, Third. 

5 Sucl h 1 1 kumar Sarkar, Third. 

0 Sarmtkumar l’alui, Second. 

0 Par t ha prat iin M ukhopadhyay, Third. 

10 Nmiaiehundra Kolc, Second. 

15 Pankajkanti Kan|dal. Second. 

1 I I la nsadhan Bhat tachary.vu, Second. 

15 Kainalakanta Panda. Second. 

17 Sukuma? Pradhan, Thiid. 

18 Taivah All Mallick, hirst.. 

20 Dipakkumar Ghosh, Second. 

22 Sanat kumar Denie, Third. 

dO ,N arend ranaili Mandal. Third. 

:r» Dehahrata Chakraharti, Third. 

38 Dihakar Haidar, Second. 

30 Mil Surat All Molds a, Second. 

40 Sa^mkasekhar Patra. Second. 

11 Su In a I a Ghosh, Third. 

Id Dhiieiidtanaih Das, Third. 

47 Kliamlakar Ahul Fa k» 1, Third. 

IS Saioikuinar Mandal, Thiid. 

40 Sachmdranal h Ghosh, Third. 

50 Sukitmai GhoMi, r rinr<l. 

08 Bamgati Das, Third. 

71 A uuileiidulnkas Bag, Third. 

7t> Golwitdachandni Mandal, Tliird. 

77 Niruialchnndi a Khatua. Third. 

51 Padmanahha ( ‘h.ikrabarti , 'Third, 

Sd Biswanath Parai, 'Third. 

«S7» Sa umeml w.sumlai Khali, 'Third. 

S7 I >a midranat h Manila. Second. 

SS Shaikh Nnainat All, Sei ond. 

00 MiiualUanti f laua. Second. 

02 Asokkumar Mamlal, First. 

Od S\ amaprasad Datla, Third. 

100 M.tdnimiohaii Ghnnta, 'Thud. 

101 A nadii'hai an Adhikuti. Thud. 

100 Sarojkuiuar Maiti, Third. 

110 Suphalchandra Das, 'Third. 

112 Mohammad Baduu Zairian, Third, 
lid Snpali ( ’link i ahart i, First. 

11 I Jonescliandi a Kar, Second. 

1 1 5 Sudhansukurnar Pay, 'Third. 

110 Sk. Aid. Ahul Kalani, Third. 

MS .1 a gut pa 1 1 Das, Third. 

122 Ak. Saliajalian Alallick, Sc*coii<i. 

1 2d J I imansusckliar Ouria, Third. 

I2<> A I >d ul Malek Mol lick, Second. 

127 I latent Ali Mallick, Secoml. 
ldl M. mask ii mar Sail, Third. 

Idd M riniilkanti Mandal, 'Third, 
ldl Sk. Solatium Sardai, 'Third, 

Ido Sk. T’a/.lur Bahmnan, 'Third. 

Ids Pa mesehandra Psahrata, Thu d 
Ml Susrlkumar Dc, Third. 

112 Samiyusicharan Jana, Third. 

14o Mukuudalal Chakr ahart i, Third. 

117 Pircndr anath Manna, Third. 

1 IS Sa-u tun. is Sarkar, Third. 

110 Pranahcnduriat h iMaiina, 'Third 
152 liakshmaiichandra Mamlal, 'Third. 
ir>7 Svv a pankumar Das, Third. 

IAS A i (Mheiidusckhar Das, Thud. 

17)0 Sli.iluu Pahaman Khan, Second. 

]T>d Mritsuniay Maiti. First. 

1GG Pathunlraiuohan Gangopadli>ny, Third. 
J07 Kiriualkuiit i Ghosh, Third. 

170 Aptkumnr AJandal, Third. 

170 A jit kumar Maiti, Third. 

174 Ani lk umar Bhattaeharyya, Second. 

178 Prahladchandra lluj jra, Third, 

170 Jagannath Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

ISO Aptkumai Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

IS] San tuna y Ghosh. Third. 

182 Daihnkinandan Adhikari, Third. - 
ISO Goiachand Ghosh, Third. 

181 Prtajihan Sarkar, Second. 

18. r > Sudhaususekhar Maiti, Second. 

187 Alnkpiakas Ghoshal, Third. 

18s Ni rad ha ran Das, Third. 

180 Gnpalchaiidra Dalui, Third. 

10! Dihpkiniun Sarkar. Third. 

102 Painsadbari Maiti, 'Third. 

103 Madaticliandra Bhuriya, Third. 

199 Jitendranath Bhaumik, Second, 


No., name and division. 

Uluberia College 
ROLL ULU. F. 

1 Push pa Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

2 Kalvani Chattopudhyuy, Second. 

0 Anita Chandra, Second. 

G Krishna Bhattaeharyya, Third. 

8 Manjukana Ghosh, Third. 

11 Asoka Chandra, Third. 

11 Dipali Ghosh, Third. 

15 Bununi Gupta, Third. 

18 Sohlm Kar. Second. 

10 Juhanara Begum, Second. 

20 Mira Pay, First. 


Uttarpara Raja Peary Mohan College 
ROLL UTTAR. 


2 Samarkiimar Ghosh, Third. 

4 Dhirendranath Jrlalder, Second. 

5 Suhhnshchandra Knndu, 'Third. 

G Sasankasekhar Maiti, Second. 

10 Prumatheshehandr.i Mmilik, Second. 

11 Hiresaat Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

12 Pantoshkuniar Paha, Third. 

11 Sihsankar Pal, Secoml. 

15 Ahimlranatli Pa> , Second. 

10 Pradoshkumar Saha, 'Third. 

10 Sulnata Dlnir, Second. 

20 Tarunkum.u Dntta, Second. 

2d Dehendrunatli Das, Second. 

21 Biswnmbhar Das, Second. 

27 Jiboschaiidra ( Jiakrabarti, Second 
do AlaiiasUiimar Chat topadhyn\ , Third 

11 ( Jiandi asekluir Batik, Secoml. 

12 Kainalakanta Summit a, I (Pcpn No 25 

00), Second. 

11 Pahmdranath ('haudlruri, First. 

51 Sakt i may Bandyopadhyay, Secoml. 

55 Siniihliimath De, First. 

50 Asimjyoli Gangopndhya.v, Second. 

.57 Chiraujib Uangopadh va> , Third. 

01 Arunkumar Datla, Secoml. 

02 Sunirmal ( Uiaudhu ri , Second. 

<►1 Bhudhar Goswanu, 'Third. 

Of) Dilipkuinar Ghosh, Secoml. 

70 Bimalkumai Ghosh, 'Third. 

71 Dinuhandhu Kole, Second. 

72 Sauiiiycndranat It Konar, 'Third 

70 Dinabnndhu Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

77 Kanailal Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

HI M ihirkuniar Palchamlhuri, Second. 

82 Prahladchandra Pradhan, 'Third. 

Sd Kisorimohsm Pay, Second. 

81 Tripurari M ukh<»padh\ ay , Secoml. 

8(> Dilipkuinar Paychamlhuri , Third. 

88 Md. Chinnier All Shaikh, Secoml. 

1)0 AJanunohari Si. Second. 

01 llijanhihari Sarkar, Third. 

02 Pradipkiimar Untigopadhyay , Second. 

01 Sunilknmar Chat topadhvay , 'Third. 

0(J Dhruhes Bhaumik. Tliird. 

07 Dilipkuinar Bhattaeharyya, Second. 

1)8 llaradhan Bhar, Thiid. 

10G Dchakinamlan Pakshil, Secoml. 

100 Asimkumar M ukhopadlo ay, 'Third. 

110 Ahdul Hakim Mallick, Second. 

1 1 I Nakulehandra Kole, Third. 

112 Tarapada Kolc, Second. 

111 Nitaiehandra Ghosh. Third. 

117 Jyotirmay De, Third. 

110 Afohanlal Datta, Third. 

121 Hanjitkumar Goswami, Second. 

123 Dineschandm Deb, First. 

124 Biswanath Seth, Second. 

125 Animes Haidar, Second. 

12G Syamaprasad Sarkar, Second. 

127 Amalkumar Sinharay, Second. 

130 Svanialkumar Mukho]»adhyay, Third. 

133 Swa pankumar Saha, Second. 

135 Bimalkutnar Mukhopadhyay , First. 

13G Alukulehandra Chaktabarti, Second. 

138 .Tagaiyoti Bhattaeharyya, First. 

140 Gopalchandr.i Bhattaeharyya, Second. 

141 Shayak Hossam, Third. 

142 Alihirehandra Dasgupta, Third. 

145 Bipulrnnjan Dhar, Second. 

150 Biswanath Pay IT (liegn. No. 34758 

Third. 

151 Kshudiram Bay. 'Third. 

153 Tarakchandra Samanta. Second. 

154 Madhusudan Saikar, Third. 

155 Alokkumar Sen, Second. 

158 Dilipkumar Sinha, Third. 


ol I 


of 1D57-5S) 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


125 


}>*RT 



No., name and division. 

Uttarpara Raja Peary Mohan College 
ROLL UTTAR. 

Smritikmnar Mukhopadhyay, Second, 
iiuiaic haran Nandi, Third. 

J !., ^irmalkunti Chakrabarti, Second. 

I, ‘J |{ ; ibmdrunath Ghattopadhyay. 11 (Re^n. No. 3059 of 

" VJ57-58), Second. 

u th >;iinirkmnar Bandy opadhyay. Third. 

I siidhir Ghattopadhyay, Second. 

\blnkumar Datta, Second. 

-j, (biurantra Datta, Third. 
i;i KMiitischandra Biswas, Third. 

Amalendu Chakrabarti, Second. 

.*>|j Nnnaichandra Ghosh, 'Hiird. 

Pankajkumar Ghosh, Third. 

•sank nr prasad Ghosh, Second, 
jf; M.ihadeb Hajra, Third. 
i;w Tusliarranjan Dor, Third. 
l~<i Kunjabihari Kanjilal, Third, 
j 4 | i \marcndranath Khunuirn, Third. 
js| Mumnanjan Maiti, Second, 
imi Hidyntkanti Nandi, Second. 

1^7 Baliuchnmlra Pal, Third. 

I^s Pulalranjan Pal, Second. 

u ;) Hamkriahna Pal, Third. 

jMu si nlharnarayan Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

I'll’ r.ilasranjan Bhuttachnryya. Second. 

],i.{ Piintoshkumar Bhaumik, Third. 

] i| Satyay^opal Datta, Third. 

|T, Kart ikciiandra Bandyopadhyay, Third, 
i > 17 Bislmuprusad Bandyopadhyay, Second, 
ji it t Cuiuprasad Ohnttopndliyay, Second. 

•>n| Aiiikinnar Ghattopadhyay, Second. 

'h rj ]’i .ihhnkar Mukho]>adhyay, Second, 
jut Vmdsidulal Mukhopadh.vay, Second, 
jiil (hnncliaiidra Mitra, Third. 

J* i.5 Kiiilasclmndra Gupta, Third. 

■Jim i N.ibakmnar Bhatt acharyya, Second. 

J«i7 Ibinandusekhar Basil, Third. 

Ji ^ N’epalchandra Pali a, Second. 

JTi susilkmnar Mukhopadhyay , Third. 

J!() M ukundaniurari Sarkhel. 'third. 

Ji7 h.unalakantu Sa manta, 11 (Regn. No. 17405 ol 1957- 
5S), Third. 

:* i ^ \ .okkumin Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

-T> \ditkumar Mnmlal. Third. 

JJ" ( Ini laranjan Maiti, Third. 

JJl Bhiuliesnar Lej, Third. 

:’JJ llilw .math Bhat tacharyya, Second. 

* l*iins}|M;oj>al Bauik, Second. 

- 11 1 Niiunjaii Ganp,o]mdhyay . Third. 

■ ' 1 ^x.imapiasud Ghattopadhyay, Third. 

’to I ipalkuinar Majumdar, Secoml. 

• G Hanpt kunui Gosvvaini, 11 (Kcgn. No. 2.5080 ol 1059- 
<>in, Third. 

- S I’h, it ikciiandra Bhat tacharyya. First,. 

• Oahmdranath Pal, Second. 

!U) I’admaloclian Surangi, Third. 


ROLL UTTAR. F. 


I 

II 
17 
:< ; 
u 


!)'* 

Hi] 

HU 

liw 

no 

m 

nr 

ha 


Basanti Bhat tacharyya, Third. 

N, ipti Ghosh, Second, 
sil.i fJdswutiii, Third. 

ban i Datta. Third. 

I'm ikana Das, 'third. 

Illi'ii at i Bandyopadhyay, First. 

Maitn Bhattacharyya, Third. 

N, 'hrata Bhattacharyya, Second. 

^'dat a Bhattacharyya, 'third. 

Kiimalu Gan^opadhyay , Third, 
iia Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

Muta Adhikan, Third. 

Ih' Datta, First. 

i n inh (in ha, Second. 

hand ana Rhiittaeharyya, Third. 

hrislma Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

^'•imali Dangupla, Third. 

Mmina Bhattacharyya, First. 

^•I»ia Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

' Ii| Chanda, Second. 

■»■»* nut i Goswami, Third. 

h.unpa Ghattopadhyay, First. 

Aiita Datta, Second. 

. , ’ Ghattopadhyay, Secoml. 

• 'cliana Raychaudhuri, Second, 

J' 1 Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

1 ■ ‘‘taswati Misra, Third. 

i? VV ,,NI i Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

/ h! la Mukhopadhyay, It <Re K n. No. 25106 of 1959- 
Third. 

Jfay, Third. 

Vi U Second. 

S;,l1 dhya Si, Firat. 


No., name and division. 

Uttarpara Raja Peary Motian College 
ROLL UTTAR F. 

127 Kainala Raychaudhuri, Second. 

128 Kulyani Mukhopadhyay, 'thud. 

150 I’dita Sen. Third. 

KM .1 harna Sen, Second. 

1 AS Krishna Mukhopadhyay, 1 (Re^n. No. 34711 of 
1957-58), Third. 

130 Krishna Mukhopadhyay, 11 (Ucgn. No. 7(M>4 of 1958- 
50), Third. 

Ill Aditi Ghosh, Third. 

1 10 I Jena Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

150 Pushpa Basil, Third. 

152 Amittama Bhattacharyya, Third. 

155 Gita Chakrabarti, Third. 

157 Manju Ghakraharti, 'third. 

158 Aruna Chandra, Third. 

150 Kami Ghattopadhyay , Third. 

161 Bela Datta, Third. 

105 Rekha Sciigupta, Third. 

108 Pratuua Mitra, Third. 

100 Gita Rav, Third. 

171 Kanina Chakrabarti, Third. 

172 Maya Chatt opadhyay, 'third. 

171 .lyotsna Clinkraharli, Second. 

175 Alanju Bhaumik, Third. 

170 Smli Barman, Third. 

178 Khukurani Dc, Third. 

170 Siham Maitra, Third. 

180 Namita Majiiiudnr, Third. 

182 Dchika Baml> opadhyay , Second. 

181 Dehulma Mitra. Third. 

J 80 Rekha Ghosh. Third. 

180 Syamali Ray, Third. 

100 ,1 harna Gupta, 11 (Rejzn. No. 25613 of 1059-00), 

Second. 


Victoria Institution 

ROLL CAL. F. 

1471 Durga Dc, Third. 

1 175 Siham Datta, Second. 

1170 Mukti Cliaudhiin, 'third. 

1178 Dipti Ghakraharti, Second. 

1180 Bamaiain Basil, Third. 

14SJ Gitikana Basil, Second. 

I 182 Kahita Bamlyopadl»\ ay , Second. 
1183 Santi Bamlyopa<thya> , 'third. 
1480 Manju Bauds opadhyay , Third. 
1187 Gauri Bhat tachai.v\a. 'third. 

I 188 Anuya Biswas, Second. 

1 100 Maniusii Arhury.va. Third. 

1 193 Diptirani Bat, Third. 

1101 Mua Bhattacharyya, 'third. 

1 105 Maya Bandyopadhyay , 'third. 

1400 .lyotsna Bhal t achai vya. First. 

1107 Bam Bhatt mini r\\ a, Second. 

1108 Ahha ( liakrahart i, Secoml. 

1100 Bandana Chaudhiiti, 'third. 

1500 A rati Datta, Second. 

1501 Hama Datta, third. 

1502 Dipa Dhol, 'Hurd. 

1503 Dipika Dc, Second. 

1501 Kiishna Basu, Secoml. 

1500 Kalpana Gtiakrahai ti. Second. 

1507 Kajalrckha Ghaudhuii, Thud. 

1508 Sarhani Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
1500 Mnnalini Doshi, Second. 

1511 Pramila Agarwal, 'third, 

1512 t. Vatsala Acharya, First. 

151 1 Krishna Chaudhuri, Second. 

1515 Champa Das^upta, First. 

1517 Anita Biswas, Third. 

1510 Aditi Basil, Third. 

1523 Gita Ghakraharti, Second. 

1526 Sikha Das, Second. 

1527 Tamisra Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

1528 Smlhana Bhattachar>ya, 'third. 

1530 Al]>an:i Ghattopadhyay, Second. 
1532 Pratima Chatt npudh\ ay . 'I’hinl. 

1 5.‘!3 Mua Ghattopailhvay , Second. 

1531 Manju Das, Secoml. 

3 535 Susmita Ghaudliuri, Second. 

15,3(i A rati Basu, Second. 

1 5.‘18 I hhu Biswas, Third. 

1540 Santi Datta, Third. 

J541 Suleklia Datta, First. 

1542 Sunauda Datta, Third. 

1544 Rama Das, Third. 

1545 A rati Das, Second. 

1546 Maya Dattaray, Second. 

1547 Papiya Ghattopadhyay, Second. 



THE CALCUTTA CJAZETTU, MARCH 29, 1962 


i Part jj 


120 


No., name and division. 

Victoria Institution 

ROLL CAL. F. 

1551 ln» Arnub, Third. 

J.VW i’ui alii Chakra barti, Second. 

] 5.04 Krili Basak, Second, 
l 5 i< >t> Sublira Bandyopadhvay, Third. 

1550 Sujatii Bandyopad by ay, Third. 

1557 Mira Bandyopadhj ay, Third. 

1 558 Mania Bandyopadhyay, Kwotid. 

1500 Samlbya Chakrabarti, Second. 

1502 Jliarna l)e. Second. 

1505 Dipti Datta, First. 

1500 Sibani De, Second. 

1507 Lila Ciiaudburi, Second. 

1508 Alo Basil, Second. 

1500 Chitra Basil, Third. 

1575 It ('ha Ghosh, Third. 

1577 111m rati Haidar. Second. 

1581 Rina M ukhopndh.vay , Third. 

1587 Amnia Hayc haudhuri, Third. 

1501 I >i pal i It aha, Second. 

1502 Krishna Seiigwptn, Third. 

1501 (Ota Ray, Third. 

1505 Quanirunnessa, Second. 

1500 Hhnrali Pal, Third. 

1507 Mukh Nap;, Second. 

1500 Maniusn Mitra, Third. 

1000 ltini Mukhopadliyav. Third. 
jr>()2 Maya M ukliopadliyay , Third. 

1003 Dipti Jana, Third. 

1001 Mmati Goswami, Second. 

1000 Sandh.Na Ghosh, Second 

1010 Basana G.ingopadhyay , Third. 

1018 Bithika Ghosh, Second. 

1010 A puma Guha, Third. 

1021 Santwana Scngupta. Second. 

J022 .lulhika Sen, Third. 

1025 Iteklia Pnddar, S(M*ond. 

1028 .1 hama Itay, Third. 

1020 Sila Itav, Second. 

1 ( k t( ► Itasesvvari Bal, Second. 

1031 Mira Lahn, First. 

1052 Clutnta lta.\, Sc'cond. 

10.55 ItcnuUa N i \ ogi, Second. 

1051 Manisha (liioshal. Thud. 

1055 Suimta Gangopadhya> , Third. 

1050 Snmitra Ghosh, Third. 

1057 Dipika S<‘»ipnpta, Third. 

1058 Ban i Mini hi, 'Third. 

1050 Hindu Lahn, Second. 

1010 Sahila Nandi, Second. 

104! M mat i Milra, Third. 

B>15 Snick ha Garni, Third. 

ION Suclntia M ukliopadliyay , Second. 
1015 Anublia Milra, First. 

1040 Sohlia Bain, Third. 

1047 Bntpal Kaur, Second. 

10-10 Siisimta Itay, Second. 

1050 Manpisii Ghosh. 'Third. 

1051 Kamala Ghosh, Second 
1055 Sinntikana Sen, Second. 

1050 Jayanti Ita.i, Second. 

1050 Alasi Scupupla. 'Third. 

1000 Si ha u i Sinha, 'Tlind. 

1002 Aujaua Nap, Thud. 

1005 llasina K hat nil, 'Thiid. 

100-1 SaVtai K.im , Second. 

1005 Sheila Goldsimt li , Second. 

1000 Sujntn (Juba, Second. 

1008 Tup! i M ukhopadliN u> , Third. 

1070 Minati Ghosh, Second. 

1072 Bum Sarkar, Second. 

1075 Sila Taraphdat, 'Third. 

1074 Santosh Tnndoii, First. 

1070 Rama Basil, 'Third. 

1078 Snrama Knndu, Second. 

1085 Gunn Bhadun, Second. 

1080 Fshaiam Majumdnr, Third. 

1087 Sandhya Naha, Second. 

108S Chitra (Ihosh (Mrs. BasiO, Second. 
1005 Briti Sarkar, Second. 

10JH1 Mndnla Sarkar, Second. 

1000 Jyotsna Malkhandi, Tliinl. 

1704 Itckha Bhaumik, Second. 

1705 Lovely Smharay, Third 
1700 l’urnbi Das, Third. 

1708 It nnn Biswas, 'I'hird. 

1710 A Hindi (a Saha, Second. 

1715 Siiehc'ta Sarkar, Second. 

1717 Sankari Saha, First. 

1718 Alpana Son, 'Third. 

1710 Sudeshua Sinha, Second. 

1722 Suchitra De, Third. 

1724 Amita Ray, Second. 

5807 11a Nandi, Third. 

5808 Manika Chandra Third. 

5810 IT tiara Sengupta, Third. 

5813 Gita Chukrnbarti, Second. 


No., name and division. 

Vidyasagar College 
ROLL CAL. 

1003 Sunilkumar Mandal, Third. 

1075 Tarunkumar Poddar, First. 

1077 Sureselmndra Bhattaeharyya, Third. 

1087 Bishmipada Mukhonadhyay, Second. 

1002 Haines Paul Pasriolia, Third. 

1005 Haradhan Patra, Third. 

1005 I'apan Chakrabarti, Third. 

1000 Ranjitk uinar Barman, Third. 

1008 Harendralal Ghosh, Third. 

1 1 ( K) Sutyanandu Das, Third. 

1104 Sheo dunam Rai, Third. 

1112 Anilkumar Chuttopadhyay, Second. 

1114 Itahindranath 'Taraphdar, Second. 

1118 Bijuykumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

1120 Aiunranjan Chaudhuri, Third. 

1122 Ilirinchipada Datta, 'Third. 

] 125 Shree Krishna Paiuley, Third. 

1 150 Nirmalkrishna De, Third. 

1150 Birendra Kumar Gupta, Second. 

I 150 Sisirkumar Itay, Third. 

1142 Mudun Gdpal Srivastaw, Second. 

1117 Nit anjankumar Dasadhikaii, Second. 

1118 Arunkumar Sanyal, Third. 

I 154 danardan Prasad Mislira, Second. 

115)8 Supriyakuuiar Munsi, Second. 

J 150 Gopaichandra Sarkar, Third. 

1101 Subhasis Goswami, Second. 

1100 Iliralul .Jaiswal, Second. 

1108 Ramesh Kumar Singh, Second. 

1170 Smyyaprasad Itaymanlik, Sc'cond 
1177 Nilinani Nandi, 'I'hird. 

1170 Biilinkumar Jtaha, 'Third. 

1181 Lakshminai ayan Misra, Second. 

I 101 Rniiikishnrc Sinha. 'Third. 

I 102 Stireudra Kumai Jhuniliiiiiwnllu, Third. 

1101 Adhirkuniar Bandyopadhyay, 'Thud 
I 105 Asiilmran Si I , Second. 

1201 Itabimli anatli De, Second. 

1205 Bi ahliat Umnar Das, Second. 

1201 Nirmalkmnar Manna, Second. 

1205 .lagauriath .Ilia, Second. 

1200 It :iiii Narnyun .Ilia, Second. 

1208 Kamil Datta, 'Third. 

1200 Piemansii Datta, 'I'hird. 

1211 Saiiaikiitnai llaldar, Second. 

1212 Asiikuniar Adliya, Second. 

1211 lien ii hi 1 J*oddar, Second. 

1215 Chovvclhiiry Nun> A lam, Second. 

1218 Alokkmmir Batliak, Sc*eond. 

1224 Syamalk mmir Bal, Second. 

1225 Dihycmlu Haidar, 'Third. 

1220 Nisitlikumar De, Second. 

1252 Anilkumnt Goswami, Second. 

1258 Snkant akuniar Ghosh, 'Third. 

1240 Rabindranath Bhaumik, Second 
1250 Itahindranath Mall.k, 'Blind. 

1258 Mihirkumar Kar, 'Third. 

1250 Bhaimnlrai hundi a Itay, Second. 

1200 .I.Notirmay Daspupta. Second. 

1 2 ( >5 Bircmlra .Ilia, First. 

1207 Asimrauian Bhattachaiyya, Second. 

1208 Onkar Nath Duho> , 'Third. 

1275 Nnrayanchuudra Bal, 'Third. 

1282 Manila I D<', Second. 

I28(> M adhiisiidan Bhattaeharyya, 'Third. 

1500 Siisantakumar Bal, Thiid. 

1505 Vod Brakash Gupta, 'Third. 

1500 Amratlal Galnlhliai Patel, Second. 

1508 Arunkumar Himatlal Chlmpin, Second 
1515 Dipakkumar Pal, Third. 

1510 Ttataiikumar Daspupta, Third. 

1517 Saiitakumar Gliosh, Third. 

1521 Haridhan Aclmrvya, 'Third. 

1522 Ahhayeharan Bliar, Third. 

1525 Gopaichandra Ganai, 'Third. 

1520 Dharni Narain, Third. 

1550 Arunabha Das, Third. 

1552 Tej Narayan 4 ha, Second. 

1555 Bijnnkumnr Chakrabarti, Third. 

1538 Sujitkumar Mitra, Second. 

1540 Dipak ltaychaudhuri, 'Third. 

1517 Sisirkumar Sarkar, Second. 

1518 Arddh('ndukmiiar Pal, Third. 

1554 Suhhcndu Nandi, Second. 

1501 Ajitkumar Basil, Second. 

1505 Sunitikumar De, Third. 

1304 Himunsuhhu.shan Bhattaeharyya, Second 

1305 Balaichand Niyogi, Third. 

1308 Pranabendranath Nag, Second. 

1375 ltadhakrishna Giri, Third. 

1378 Gaurpada Maiti, Third. 

11480 Kantibikas Pal, Third. 

1381 Purnendubikas Das, Third. 

1385 Dilipkutnar Chandra, Third. 

1388 Aniioltandra Bera, Third. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


127 


|>\irr 1U] 


No., name and division. 


I N' 

1 t‘"> 

1 ml 
l.VK! 
I.Hl 
l ;*»"» 

| «H» 

i mi 
1 tin* 

i m: 

I I Mi ► 

I ‘urn 
*J7 1 1 
1 ii>7 
til I 
mi; 
ru!» 
rni 
mm 
mm 
i wi 
i.nt 
i:r»7 
I.IVJ 
UnO 

i.kj 

Mt » I 
I it. 7 
! i(i'» 

! ;7<> 

1 i7S 
! M 
I s.t 

I.M 

i m', 

I N> 

I m » 
l M!' 
iim 
mi 
. 1 1 "» 
1 1:' i 


mu 
; ; 1 1 


Third. 

Ill (Pcgn. 


Third. 
Third 


ill* 


i li. I 

I I7u 


I K7 
1 mu 


1 t'i. 1 

1 mi 

1 m ; 
ii'H 
1 ‘.1 1 1 
r>ir, 

1 ■.( i< 
i'ii i* i 
1 tin 

m 1 
r»in 

IV>«i 

ivji 

IVM 

IVJH, 

IV27 

'*»:«) 

1 ■» v.\ 

r..i? 

IV.i) 

»M‘J 

t-tl 

1-.47 

-r,m 

lilo 

V ->i ii j 

n<,i 

4 

•pm. 

Bit >7 


No., name and division. 

Vidyasagar College 
ROLL CAL. 

Pulmkumar Dali a. Third. 

Pdipkumar Ghosh, Second. 

Ainarnath M ukhopadhyav, Third. 
Alokkumar Dhar, Third.. 

Sanalkuniar Ghakrabni ti. Third. 
Bimalkumar l)e. Third. 

Ainalkntmir Mandal, Third. 

Mahesh Prakash Gupta, Second. 

Ln\nmi Prasad, Second. 

( haiulra llhushan Duhey, Third. 

|{sa iviiiiklal Panaehnnd Pnrrkli, Third. 
Sukmnar Mallik, Third. 

Nisithrnnjnn Basil, Third. 

Dhireschimdni Dhar, Third. 

Iladhikaraiijan Panja, Thud. 

Sanatan De, Second. 

Susantakuniar Daita, Second. 

N ilia rendu Basil, Third. 

Samarnath Pal, Third. 

Govindram Agarwala, Third. 

Uidhkaran Paid, Second. 

I)al Cham! Soma in. Second. 

Pi sisantakuinar Biswas, Third. 

Baghunath Bhaiinuk. Second. 

Ajitkinnar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 
Malavkumnr (’hattopadhy ay , Third. 
Sadendranath Basil, Third. 

Syainsundar Nandi, Second. 

Pwralal Lodlia, Second. 

Asokkumar Pay, Third. 

\nijitkumar Pal, First. 

( liittaianjan Das, Third. 

S.mkarnai li ( diattopadhyav , 

I lipakkuniar Mukhopadh.va,\ , 

ol 1050-00), Third. 

Sisirkumai Banlhan, Second 
dngnnnntli Alamlal. Third. 

K isoiamolian Nandi, Third 
I '1 aphul Ink 11 mar Pat tana ik, 

Tapunkumnr ( ’hat topadhyn.v 
sidu idiiiohau Audi, Second. 

IP layknslina Daita, Second, 
s.-ninrk lunar Phut tacharyya, Secoml. 

Sjjt \ aranjan Kayal, Third. 

I\i 1 hat mat h Das, First. 

Banaliihan Phtman, Third. 

I In akkiunai Dasgupta, Third. 

I nduhhiishan Achaiyya, Third. 
Mohammad Badrul Alain, Thinl. 

I ’. 11 as N at h (’lioiihey, Second. 

( handrn Maui Ppadhvay, Second. 

K 1 lslinachandra ( dial topadhyav , Second. 
Asunkuinar Ghosh, Third. 

Bahmdi ana! h Das, Secoml. 
I’radyotkuniar Pal, Second. 

Bahindialal Deh, Second. 

Bmianchandra Kutidii, Thinl. 

\ai a\ anpi asad ( 'hakrahai t-i. Second. 
Mmalidhai ( 'hall opadhyay , Second 
>amhlnnialh Bagchi. Second. 

•lawaiinalh Inili.i. Second, 
r.it.dchandra Nag, Sccoml. 

\niankuiiiai De, Third. 

\isdkuinar Bhattacharyya, Tliiid. 

N 1 ipeiidranat h M ukhopndhyny , Second. 
\iurit ngopnl Pal, Second. 

Gilbert Dungdung, Third. 

Paikash Abiaham Tirkey, Second. 
Nmioshkumai Dattn, Third. 

I'i ahhasranjan Ghosh, Second. 
Vhhiniainn ./ana, Third. 

I I n annisiN Biswas, - Second. 

^asiuikasekha r Mandal, Third. 
Ihhliutihhushan Bhunia, Third. 

I’i jihhatkunmr Haldai, Second. 
Siisilkiintar llaldar, Third. 

S.umrkuinar Mitra, Thiid. 

A miyakanti Pathak, Third. 

Vsiuhindu Hay , Third. 

Ihahhaskanli Pakshit, Third. 
Sudhirkmnar De. Second. 

Aiahindn Daita, Second. 

Goiachand Mitra. Third. 

(•.ineschandra Phattacharvya, Third. 
P'l^skumar Majnmdar, Third. 

\ sit ran jan Pal, Second. 

1 'areschandra Biswas, Third. 

8:unbhunath Basil, Third. 

Pilipkmnar Itay, Second. 

^okkuniar Biswas. Third. 

^ ! »ntkmnar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

l >si/k umar Chattopadhyay, Third. 
Miihananda Khan, Third. 


No. 14 170 


No., name and division. 

Vidyasagar College 
ROLL CAL. 

4o7 1 Sarheswar De, Third. 

1572 Sailenkumar Gupta, Second. 

457.1 Phanudeh Nath, Second. 

4574 Pimalkumar Mukhopadhyay. Third. 

1577 Guuranga Sen, Thinl. 

4578 Saiikarnath Pal, Thinl. 

4580 Paimluuulra Das, Second. 

1582 Nikhilhhusan Pal, Third. 

4585 Suhhashclmiulra Pavchaudhuri, Third. 
1587 Tarak until Kumlu. Second. 

4580 Sihcharan Pntra. Third. 

4505 Pishwanath Pam Kesun. Second. 

4500 Mahanand Gupta, Third. 

4507 Lull .Ilia. Second. 

T508 Pishwanath Jujhai singka. Secoml . 

4001 Gird liar Gall Pat hi. Se<ond. 

•1002 Synialchandra Bandvopadhyny, Second. 
4008 Badri Narayan VVarshncy. 'Phird. 

4000 Suresh Chandra Sharma, Third. 

4000 Krishnndas Biswas, Third. 

1015 Asiitosli Paha, Third. 

1028 Badhc Shyam Agarwaln, Third. 

1080 Pdaya Shankar Ojha, Second. 

1088 Kanhaiya Lnl Choraria, Third. 

0888 Girija Nand Singh, Thinl. 

0587 Ajitkinnar Ghosh, First. 


ROLL N A I. 

080 Snntoshkiiiuai Phut 1 :»< hai .v.va Sccomi. 

ROLL RISH. 

00 Sisii k lunar Mitra, 'Phird. 


Vidyasagar College for Women 

ROLL CAL, F. 

201 1 Pehn Basil. Second 
2018 .Milan Phaunnk, Third. 

2058 ,1 ha ma filial tacharyya, 'Phird. 

2050 Sail Bandyopadhyay, Thinl 
2057 ('bandana Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

2000 Chandralekha Clmt topndhyay , 'Phird. 
2070 Nnniita Chattopndhyay , Thud. 

2077 Maya Paksi, 'Phird. 

2081 Nandini Basil, Thinl. 

2(>H.'> Baku) Basil, 'Phird. 

2002 Bela Arharvya, Thinl. 

2700 Anjali Basil, 'Plunl. 

2708 Miia Bhattacharyya, Third. 

2700 Aniali Bhattacharyya, Third. 

2710 Sruti Basil, Sccoml 

2714 Parhati (’hakrahai 1 1 , Second. 

2710 Fma ( ’hat I opadhyay , 'Phird. 

2718 Maya llhadra. Thud. 

2722 Siimcdha Bamlyopailhy ay. 'Phird. 

2728 Sukla Bandyopadhyay , Second. 

2721 (iitanjali Bliat t achai \ ya . Second. 

2728 Apaina Chakiaharti, 'Plunl. 

2780 Sohha Jiasu, Third. 

2781 C-haitali Basil. 'Phird. 

2787 Manju C/hosh, S«*eond. 

27 If) Mmati llaldar. 'Phird. 

2741 Sandhvn IJajra. Second. 

2715 Pakhi Gupta, 'Phird. 

2702 Kamala Das, Second. 

27 (VI Dipali Dasgupla, Thinl. 

2707 Bijali (ihosh. Second 

2708 Zita Gomes. Third. 

2771 Bnnast l Gupta, Second. 

2772 Pehn Kumar, Third. 

2775 Sadhana Kundu. Thinl. 

2777 lhha Kumlu, Third. 

2781 Antipn Giilmray. Thinl. 

2782 Pama (ioswami, 'Phird. 

2788 Smnti Gangopadhy ay . Thiid. 

2780 Bharat i Dehi. First. 

2701 llharati Deh ray. Third. 

2702 Monika Datta, Third. 

2705 Manjusri Datta, Third. 

2708 Bela Dasgujita, Third. 

2802 Archana Das, 'Phird. 

2808 Moly De, Third. 

2804 Bandana De, Third. 

2800 Jayanti Chaudhuri, Third. 

2807 Prat ini a Datta, Third. 

2800 Suchitra Das, Second. 

2814 Krishna Gangopadbyay, Secmj- 
2810 Siuli Dhar, Third. 



Til K CALCUTTA (JAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


[Part iB 


1 *28 


No., name and division. 

Vidyasagar College for Women 

ROLL CAL. F. 

2X1 X Reha Das, Thud. 

2X20 Suhita Rut t may, Third. 

2X21 Dipti Gan^opadhya} , Second. 

2822 Nara>am Goswaim, Seeond. 

2X24 I’ratima Dehi, Til ini. 

2X25 Sipra De, Second. 

28 2( > Pratihha Dehi, Sciond. 

2X27 Pr.ibha Gour, Second. 

2X44 Supaina Datta, 'nurd. 

2X45 Aparna Datta, i'hird. 

2840 ( nhayarani Ra.v, First. 

2X41 Kanan Ray, Seeond. 

2812 .l\otsna Rain, Seeond. 

2X44 Sumita Maitra, Fust. 

2X15 Lina Sarkar, II (Jtr^n, No. 20787 ot 1050-00), Third. 
2X50 Ainiya Saha, Thud. 

2X51 Mmati Ra.\, 'I'hird. 

2X50 Sant i Ralehaudhui i, T'hinl. 

2X55 Anita Pal, I'hird. 

2X50 Kalpana ,M ukhopadhyay, Third. 

2X5X llasiram Mapinular, Seeond. 

2X00 Maitleyi Sen, First. 

2X01 Suhha Sil, Second. 

2X0X Asuna Maulik, Third. 

2X75 Jiitluka Sil, i’hird. 

2XX0 Pianali Ra\ , Seeond. 

2X00 liliarati Ray, Third. 

2X00 Satidhya Pal. Tin t cl. 

2012 Sunita Mitra, Third. 

2010 liit luka Mitra, i’hird. 

2017 Silk la Rudra, First . 

20 IX Nannta M ukhopadhyay, Second. 

2010 Sandhya Na^chaudhun, Second. 

2021 iia Ram, Seeond. 

2022 Mira Pam, Third. 

2025 Rupa Mapimdai, i'hird. 

2020 Dipt i Ray, Thud. 

2045 Mira Das Second. 

2040 Santa M ukhopadhyay , Seeond. 

20 40 .lo^amn\a Chakraharti. Second. 

20IJ liandaiia Bhattachar.\ya, Third. 

2014 Sipra Sen, Seeond. 

2917 Anma Samajpati, iiiird. 

2054 Kalpana Kaujilal, i'hiicl. 

2051 Mini ula Mitra, Second. 

2055 Kamka Mitra, i’hud. 

2057 Sephali Rasjjpipta, Third. 

205S llithika Das^upta, Third. 

2000 llasi Das, Thud. 

200-1 Sephali Chakrabaiti, Second. 

20X0 Rma Sen, Second. 

2001 Aiehana Nandi, Third. 

21)05 (jit i liasumallik, Seeond. 

200X Kamka Dhol. Thud 

2999 Amnia Rmnl\ opndh\ av. Third. 

4000 Sanlnta Datta. Thir<l. 

4000 Sipra Majumdar. i'hird. 

4007 Anuya J)as, Sctoud. 

4000 ,laha Mitra. Second. 

4010 Mira M ukliopadhyax , i’hird. 

4017 Anita ( iiakrahat 1 1 , Seeond. 

401!) 1 1 a Datta, i'hird 

4021 Latika Ra\, Thud. 

4024 Rekha Saidai, Second. 

4021 Kalyam Sarkai, First. 

4020 Krishna Mitra. i'hird. 

4027 Ja.Misri Gupta, Stsoml. 

4020 Snihi (lohmdram Thaw am. First . 

4042 Ranpin Ratel. Thud. 

4010 Louisa Mandal, i’hird. 

4041 I tola ILn. Third. 

4012 Manpi Ra\, Third. 

4014 Maya Raychaudhuri, Third. 

4015 Dipali S\am, i'hird. 

401!) Mua Dat ta^upta. Third. 

4050 Florence domes. Thud. 

4051 Kahcii liamlx opadhya\ . Third, 

4051 Ratlin Baiidyopmlhx ay, Third. 


Non-coilegiato Students, Vidyasagar College for Women 

ROLL CAL. F.N. 

2101 .lharna dhosh, Third. 

21 10 Kalpana Majumdar, Third. 


Non-oollegiate Students, Vidyasagar College 
ROLL CAL. N. 

222 Prana hkumar Ghosh, Third. 

224 Niharendu Uayehaudhuri, Second. 


No., name and division. 

Viharllal College of Home and 8ooial Science 
ROLL CAL. F. 

2500 dauri Majumdar (Mrs. Ghosh) (Mu), First. 

2510 Manjulika Gupta, First. 

2511 Kakah Mitra, First. 

2512 Sadhana Ramlyopadhyuy, First. 

2514 Mini Sarkar, First. 

251 1 Gita M ukhopadhyay, Seeond. 

2518 Sujata Datta, Second. 

2.51!) .latri liand.\opadhyay, Second. 

2520 Mua Joardar, Second. 

2521 Nandita C’hattopadhyay, First. 

2.521 R a Ina Ghosh, First. 


Vijaygarh Jyotlsh Ray College 
ROLL CAL. 

(>010 Kirtihimshan Sur, i'hird. 

0050 ('lut tai aujan Kundu, Third. 

0051 Madhahchandra Kundu, Third. 

00.54 Parimalkanti Das, Third. 

0050 Rimalehamlra Ray, Third. 

005X .lo^esehamtra Pal, Third. 

( it >00 . Nikhilraiijan Das, i’hird. 

0004 Md. Aynul ilo(|Ue, Second. 

0075 Mamudrauath Maikap, Seeond. 

<>077 Suhhashkaiili Das^upta, Second. 

0078 Prcniaii.su Ray, i’hird. 

0079 l*i ainathanat h Pal, Seeond. 

00X0 Suja.x kumar lluj'chi, Third. 

00X7 Amaleiidu M ukhopadhyay , Third. 

0701 Kanuraujan Datta, Second. 

<>700 Alokkumar Songupta, Seeond. 

0708 Ratluudrakisor Chakraharti, Third. 
(>710 Mihirkumar Guha, i'hird. 

071 I A limit a kumar Sarkar, i'hird. 

<>712 Syamal Mapinular, Second. 

<>714 Taiakdeb Him rati, i’hird. 

0710 Samares Majumdar, Second. 

0719 Nauijiopal Chat topadhyay, Third 
(>721 Dihpkuimu Ghosh, i'hird. 

072!) 'Jahaihil Das, i'hird. 

<>740 Ratanial Das, Third. 

0741 Rinialchandra Pal, Third. 

0749 Rasudeh Dc, Seeond. 

0748 J*ranaykumar Ghosh, Third. 

075-1 Aniaieskanti Roddar, Third. 

(>755 Asilruiijan Dattaray, i'hird. 

(>702 Smlarsan Chakraharti, First. 

0708 Mayukhanarayan Datta, Third 
070!) Bnnalchundra Satiyal. Third. 

5)540 Aja\ kumar llandyopadhyay , Third 


ROLL CAL. F, 

1.520 Rharali Rhaumik, i'hird. 

1521 Mamka Band.\ opadh.N ay , Thud. 

1.524 Slant ikana Datta (Sirs. Do), Third 
1521 Rratmia Kai , Third. 

1525 Dipti Sarkar, i'hird. 

1520 l la Dehi, i'hird. 

1545 Arati De, Third. 

1547 Anima < 'hattopadhyny , Second. 

■I .54 1 Kalyaui Rasu. i'liird. 

1512 Namita Rasj'upta. Third. 

•1.544 Maya Randyopadhyav , Second. 

4554 Sikiin Ray, First. 

4.555 Santa Sarkar, Third. 

•1502 Rsharani Dehi, i'hird. 

4001 Sankan Ghosh, i'hird. 

1000 Manjulika Rasu, Third. 

1011 i’npt uaiii Datta, Third. 

1014 Anima Chaudlmri, i’hird. 

4019 Rarul Ghosh, Third. 


Non-collegiate Students, Vijaygarh Jyotlsh Ray College 
ROLL CAL. F.N. 

2112 Jana Das^upta, Second. 


ROLL CAL. N. 

449 Praphullakumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
454 Prasunkumar Chattopadhyay, Third. 



THE CALOtTTlA. GAififTi, MaACH 29 . 1962 


121 


[«r I»] 



No., name and division. 


ROLL CAL. F. 


7<i 

$ 

|M 

IK» 

IV'II 

3.a 

3!U 

i«n 

?<XI 

ftm 

2w 

I! 1 2 

2l!i 

Sl.> 

SfK. 

21; 

hiii 


i:](i 

1.12 

!fc; 

24(» 

212 

■Ml 

*52 

‘'c, 

i!r ( 


^,1,-klni Biswas, Third. 

M ilckhn Mnkhopadhyay, Second, 
supti Son, Second. 

I) r hi;mi Sarkar, Third. 

\,ati T)e, Second. 

Al.itllnnhhnndu Ghosh, First. 

( } 1 1 r 1 1 1 Dharulinrttlhiiri, Second. 

>i Biswas, Second. 

I’nti Hay, Third. 

Hu,., Mnkhopadhyay , Third. 

H;mi Gangopadhyay, Third. 

IP-Klia Dosarkar, Third. 

Miimida Dasgupta. Third, 
surlntra Hal. Second. 

Ikmanti Ghosh, Third. 

\raii Mallik, Second. 
sa!>h.i (hattopndhyay, Third. 

(hakrabai li. Second. 
hi | a >i Basil, Third. 

Dchrani Mnkhopadhyay, Second. 
Hili.mda Brahma, Third. 
|,il,ik:»mal ( hakrahurti, Second. 

( 'hhiinda Mitra, Second.. 

(iit.i Gangopadhy ay. Third. 

.la\ asri Dehi, Third. 

Ilam (Tinttopadhyuy, Second 
siihJira Bhnttacharvya. Third. 
Dipali Bay, Third. 

Kudina Bhattacharyya , Second. 
Pushp.i l)c Third. 

I la ( 'hat topadhva.v. Third. 

M.iviiii Basil, Third. 

Midlianuiyi Chaudhuri, Second, 
naliit r i Bugchi, Third. 

Dipali Ghosh, First. 

liiiloi rhattopadhyav, Third. 

Ihhh.i Saha, Second. 

M.hIIium Chnkrahut 1 i. Third. 

I’i an, i li Bhar, Third. 

\na Basil. Third 
Ihihika Kuiidu, Third, 
llama Bay, Third. 

Haniu Gupta. Third. 

Mmali Datta, Second. 

Imliia Basil, Third. 

Bcha Nandi, Third, 
llama Hav, Third. 

Vimta Bnsnk, Tliird. 

Ba\ at n Mnkhopadhyay, Third, 
•laxasri Dasgupta, Third. 

Mam Mainmdar, Third, 
lhidipa Mnkhopadhyay, Third. 
Muktikana Das, Third. 

Mu a Bundynpndhyay. Third. 

Bit a (hattopadhyay, Third, 
llama Guha, Third. 

Muali Mnkhopadhyay, Tliird. 
Sihliana Bhar, Second. 

Manmsn Mitra, Second. 

Bandana Bhattacharyya, Second. 

1 urn Bandyopadhyny , Second. 
Vsima Mnkhopadhyay, Third, 
liipasi Bandvopadhyay, Third. 
s ulilia Gangopadhyay , Third. 
Bitluka Tnlukdar, Third. 

8mianda Basil, Third. 

Mamslui Ghosh, Third. 

Mu all Saha. Second. 

( lutia (hattopadhyay. Third. 
Bchiram Pal, Third.' 

^•uiiu Das, Hurd. 

Debi, Third. 

Klmkurani Tapadar, Third. 
s 'iil<kha Chaudhuri, Second. 
y rn Hay. Third. 

^'I'klia Mnkhopadhyay, Third. 

Gliohluil, Third. 

:! ,,u Hay, Third. 

Madhabi Basu, Third. 

' MK,h Sariya 1, Third. 


Non-oolieglata Studwu, 

ROLL CAL. F.N. 

' Third * 

Bundy opadhyay , ThtM 


No., name uttd division. 

chmtm onnm 

ROLL CAL. F. 

4852 Sephali Mnkhopadhyay, First. 

4853 Kabit.a Sen, First. 

4854 Sila Chaudhuri, First. 

1855 Pratima Salin, Thiid. 

485(1 Arati Kisku. Third. 

4857 Binoti Muiidle, Second. 

4858 Maikjuli Bhaiimik, Second. 

4800 Ha sana ra Ahmed, Second. 

4801 Sukla Do, Second. 

48(>2 Tiisharkana Bhaumik, Second. 

48(13 Sahita Ghosh, Third. 

4804 Swastika Dasgupta. Second. 

48(55 Sahita Naskar, Second. 

48<»(i Namlita Mapumlar, Third. 

48(57 Su mitra Mitra, Third. 

4808 Zinin Datta, Third. 

48(19 Arati Mnkhopadhyay, II (ftegn. No. 9584 oT 19R9 
(>0) , Third. 

4870 Mira Chakraharti, Third. 

4871 Sunandn Mitra. Second. 

4872 Bandana Duhiit, Second. 

4873 Sandhya Nath. Third. 

4874 (hhaln Banih opadhy ay , Second 

4875 Anjali Basil, Third. 

487(1 Milu (Julia, Second. 

4877 Bupasri Dat tam.ijunidar, Fit si. 

4878 Purahi Chaudhuri, Second. 

4870 Lily Baskcy Second. 

4880 Sipra Sarkar, S<*eond. 

4881 Usha Saha, Second. 

4882 Mnnju Chattopadhyay, Second. 

4883 Tapati Mitra, S<*oond. 

4884 Pina Bakshit. Third. 

4885 Dina Sen, Third. 

488(1 Dolly Chakraharti, Third. 

4887 Chitrn Basuruychaudhuri, Second. 

4888 Mira Basil, Second. 

4880 Bithiku Baychaudhuri, Second. 

48tH) Minati Dasgupta, Thiid. 

4891 Subhra Basil, Second. 

4802 Sujata Sengupta, Second. 

4800 Anjali Guha, Second. 

4801 Abha Giri, Second. 

4805 Krishna Pal, Third. 

480(1 Animlita Ba.v, First. 

4897 Sunanda Sen, First. 

4808 Anjana Gupta, Second. 

4800 Mira Mnkhopadhyay, First. 

4000 Pratima Bay, Second. 

4901 Sila Mitra, First. 

4002 Sunanda Ghosh, Second. 

4900 Krishna Sengupta, Second. 

4901 Gauri Sengupta, Sis-ond. 

4905 Rina Ba.v, First. 

490(1 Bandana Majhi, First. 

4907 Purahi Bay, First. 

4908 Panna (Tiaudhuri, Second. 

4909 Diptima Basil. Second. 

4911 Susharna Sen, Third. 

4912 Tla Biswas. Third. 

4910 Gopa Chanda, Second. 

1911 Decpali (hrostien, Sec*ond. 

4015 Jay anti Bagchi, Second. 

491(> Kankan Sen, Third. 

4917 Basana Baychaudhuri, Third. 

4918 Jharna Basil, Second. 

4919 Sadhana Mnkhopadhyay, Third. 

4920 Santwana Chattoraj, Second. 

4921 Bijayasri (Tiaudhuri, S€s*ond. 

4922 Minaksin Bhattacharyya, Second. 

4920 (hhanda Bal, Second. 

4924 Maniaha Mitra Second. 

4925 Arati Ghosh, Third. 

492(1 Sandhya Mnkhopadhyay, Second. 

4927 Aditi DaaguptA, Second. 

4928 Jayati Bandy opadhyay. First. 

4929 lla Chaudhuri, Third. 

4000 Dhira Basil, Second. 

4001 Sabitri Bhattacharyya, Second. 

4002 Anjali Das, Second. 

4904 Ohhanda Sarkar, Third. 

4905 Dipika Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

4937 K. S. Savaradan, Second. 

Non-collegiat* Stutfantt. 

ROLL ARAR. F.N. 

7 Ucnukann (hakrabarti, Third. 

39 Gita rani Bhaumik, Third. 

55 Amna Lodh, Third. 

ROLL ALIPUR F.N. 

3 Lily Bhattacharyya, Third. 

6 Iteba Sen, Third. 



180 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


No., name and division. 

Nen-ooUeglata 8tud*nts. 
ROLL- ARAM. F.N. 

1 Rntnamala Bhattaeharyya, Third. 

2 Hina Das, Third. 

ROLL A8AN. F.N. 

12 .Jayauti Basu, Second. 

18 Purabi Ohakrabarti, Thirtl. 

10 Ma)» Ha\, Thinl. 

22 Minati Mitra, Second. 

24 Datika Ghosh, Thiid. 

25 Alo Chattopadhyay , Second. 

27 Manjusri Chattopadhyay, Thiid. 

84 Krishna Sarkar. Second. 

,‘15 Dipt i Mitra, Third. 

42 Manika Mukliopadhyay, Second. 

40 Sophali Sarkar, 'I'hird. 

50 dayanti Gupta, Third. 

51 J)ipti Biswas, Third. 

50 Namita Datta. Second 
02 Beklia Kay, Third. 

<>3 A rati Lahiri, Second 

08 A rati Bandyopadhyuy . Thud. 

73 Vctikn tusubrainuninu Giiiia, 'I’hird. 


ROLL BAG ATI. F.N. 

1 Annapurna Modak, Third. 

2 Sahita Saha, Third. 

ROLL BALUR. F.N. 

8 A rail rani Sarkar. Third. 

0 Nihharani Matnlal. Thiid. 

IM Gayatri Das, 'I'hird. 


ROLL BANG. F.N. 

4 Kalpana Datta, Third. 


ROLL BANK. F.N. 

3 Kama ( •haiidhuri, Third. 

IM Anita Mukliopadhyay, Third. 

Id Anjnli Hajra, Third. 

21 Archana Bandyop.idh.vu.>, First. 

2d Chnniparani Mukhopadlivay, Second. 

24 Tripti Mitra, Third. 

27 Snehalatu Das, Kirst. 

dt) Santa Chattopadhyay, Third. 

d2 Vaghela Manjula Kumari Manila I, Second. 


ROLL BAR. F.N. 

Id Sahita Dasgupta, Second 
15 Mira Mitra, First . 

25 Santa Kay, Third. 

ROLL BARI. F.N. 

8 Gitarani Gangopadh.vay . Second. 

II Kalvani Dchi, I'hird. 

18 Sutianda Bay, Second, 
dl Manjuri Nag, I’hird. 

07 Namita Ghosh, Third 

ROLL BARRACK. F.N 

Id Mira Kundusaha. Second 
10 Bela 1M nkhopadhvav. Second. 

27 Gita M ukhopadlnay , Third. 


ROLL BASIR. F.N. 

1 .Tyot.sna Sengupta, Thud. 

2 Dipti Das, Third. 

d Gita (’haiidhuri Third. 


ROLL BER. F.N. 

4 A rati Bhattaeharyya. Third. 

5 Sahita Sengupta, Third. 

7 Ahharani Datta, Second. 

11 Manjulika Dasgupta, Ihird. 

14 Dipti rani Biswas, Third. 

1(> Sandhyaruni Biswas, Second. 

10 Xilima Saha, Third. 

21 Kajalkana Bhattaeharyya, Second. 
24 Sephali Majmndar, Third. 

34 Pnti Basu, Second. 

38 Ha Basu, 'third. 

40 Sukla Bftndyopadhvay, Third. 


No., name and division. 

Non-ooliegiate Btudents 

ROLL BIRB. F.N. 

2 Anita Bay, Third, 
d Bandana Mitra, Second. 

4 Tugurptahha Bay. Third. 

0 Pruhhati Basil (Mrs. Pal), Second. 


ROLL BISHNU F.N. 

4 Dipali M ukhopadhy ay , Second. 


ROLL BOL. F.N. 

I liiihimiiiiliiir Bogaui. 'I'hird. 

10 Mira Sa rkm. 'llurd 

11 \sita l)e, 'Third 


ROLL BUR. F.N. 

S Sahita ( ’li.it topadliyay, 'Third 
Id I )hnt if am ( ’link r.i hai i i 'Third. 

14 Sahilar.ini Dasgupta Second. 

15 .lyotiram Die. Seioiid. 

25 Sandhi ai aiii ( ’haki ahai ti, Tliml 
28 Beha Manila I. Second. 
d2 Morani Mukliopadhyay, 'Thiid. 

J18 Sant u ami Saikar, 'Third. 

47 llasyuimaM Mukliopadhyay', 'Third. 


ROLL CAL. F.N. 

d ludulekha Das, Third. 

5 Clihaya ( ’ha t t-opadliy ay , Third. 

0 Mukul Gupta, Third. 

8 Sad run Nessa, Second 
12 Sunanda Dasgupta, Si com!. 

22 \nima Mapimdar. Third. 

2d Krishna ( 'liatl op.ulhy a v . 'Thiid 
25 Lakslum Maiumdai 'I'lmd. 

28 Gargi Bay (Mrs M ukhopadhy ay ) 'Mind 
dl Gita. Dohi, 'Third 
d2 Krishna Devi Mold a Scioud. 
dd Maya ( ’hakrahui 1 1 , 'Third, 
dl Krishna Maiumdai. Second. 
d5 lima Kshctri, 'Third. 

.‘Wi Maya Das, Third. 
d7 (’hayana Mukhopadlivay, 'Third. 
dO Persees Dnecha, Second. 
tO F.sha Biswas, Second. 

42 Gayatri Chaudhuri, Third. 

45 Mu a I>e (Mrs. Nandi), 'I’hird. 

51 Suleklia Chattopadhy ay , First. 

52 Manju Sengupta, Third. 

53 Mamata Bakshit, 'Third. 

.54 Iti Bar<1haii, 'Third. 

50 Tla Mukliopadhyay, 'Third. 

50 Bania Tapuiia, Third. 

00 Madhuri 'Tapuria, Second. 

02 Beha Latim, Third. 

71 S. B Sanpa, Second. 

77 Bita Fainando. 'Thiid. 

81 Pratima Pan 'I’hinl, 

85 Manika B ay , Third . 

8!) ( Mi liny ai am Ghosh, Third. 

01 Tulimkana Mitia, 'Third. 

03 I la Sarkai (Mrs. Guhii), Third, 

01 .lilt h i k ;i Sikdar, Third. 

100 Basanti ( ’liaiidliun , Thud. 

101 A pa i mi ( ha ttopadhy ay , ’Third. 

101 Anuradlia Guha, Second. 

105 .Dotiram D.mda 'I’hird. 

108 Supita M ukhopadhy a\ , Second. 

Ill Mi/luiu ( liandu annum, Second. 

115 Dipti Chaudhuri, 'Third. 

116 Sonalj M ukhopadhy ay, Second. 

118 M uia Ghosh, Second. 

110 Boe hello Fa elyn Clarence, Second. 

120 Ititluka Mukliopadliva v, 'I’hird. 

122 Krishna Bardhan, Thud. 

124 Rekha Maitra, First. 

120 Krishna Sengupta, Second. 

128 Dipa4i Guha, Third. 

142 l’h hay a Basu, Second. 

143 Anjali Mandal, Third. 

144 Sukt.i Mukliopadhyay, Third. 

145 Ira Bhattaeharyya, ThiM. 

147 Gauri Baudyopndhyai , Third. 

148 Iraui Smtia, Third. 

150 .Jamuna Sen, Second. 

I«i8 Ira Dasgupta, Third. 

107 Debiprabha Sarkar, Third. 

169 Gitarani Saha, Third. 

176 Bihharani Ghosh, Second. 


Paki IB] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


131 



No., name and division. 

Non-oollftgiate Students. 
ROLL CAL. F. N. 


No., name and division. 

Non-ooliegiate Students. 
ROLL CAL. F. N. 


1 71* 

l^n 

1 s. i 
],<•) 
Ill] 

|<IS 

jt)<> 

•jo I 
J{» 
•Jl 1 
•J J I 



•h>\\ 

•j w> 
•Jl! 
212 
jn 


ji" 

210 



jsr, 

J'HJ 


J ( '7 
' '! I 
;i ii i 
iiil 
'.Hi 
(1)7, 
JO* 
tri 
M«» 
j.jn 
:i22 

I'uiJ 

:ni 
:U7 
Ms 
:ilJ 
.Ut 
*u i 
• U7 
AM 

‘«>U 

U1J 
.u; ( » 
.17 j 
'171 
!7i, 


Annua Datta, Third. 

San Li Chattopadhyay (Mrs. Bandyopadhyay) , lhird. 
Niliina Sen, Second. 

Auuya Bhauinik, Third. 

Gita (Jhattopadhxuy, Third. 

I’ ina It a-ni Gupta. Second. 

Sati Nandi. Third. 

ALindua Bandy opadhy u> , Third. 

La Ushnii Vedutfiri, Second. 

Bijita Basu, Third. 

Indira ( haiidhui 1 , Third. 

Manju Ghosh, Second, 
liasanii Mukhopi*lli\a\ . Ilmd. 

Mat i.| u I a Clinttopadhy ay, Third. 

Manju Sen, 'Third. 

Pranati Bhatl acharyy a. Tliird. 

Clihahi Ghosh, Thud. 

Sabita Chwttopadhy ay , Third. 

SuHimta Basu, Thud. 

Put ul Bay (Mrs. Mandah, Second 
(hum Baral, 'Third. 

(hitra Scn^upt.a , Second, 
ha In am Basil, 'Tliird. 

Sila ChaUra*barh , Second. 

ILuna Seuguptu. Thud. 

Suraiya Jamal Ma/.aYi, Second. 

Lakshim Songiiptii, Second. 

Si la ( hakraharti, 'I'hird. 

Anluwia Das, 'Third, 

Mikla Basil. Second. 

"iichiilsla Biswas. ’Third. 

1 ina < haudhiiri, 'Third. 

\lan|iisri .M uklmpadh s ay Olrs Band * opadh.\ ay ) . 
Second. 

M a ry George, Tluru. 

Barn Gangopixlhyay, Second, 
lamasa Basil, Third. 

( iit.i M ukhopadhyay, Third. 

’Tusliui kana ( ’hat input ’In av (Mr.*. Bandy cp.ullm*y ) , 
Second. 

Padhaiatii Milra, 'Third. 

Lila Niyogi, Third. 

Bijay a Das, Third. 

P'eklia Sa<rkar, Third 
Sa hi ta Pal. Third. 

Mi hhi. i ( 'liaudhuri, Second. 

Saint a Ghoshal, Third. 

Jutluku SaiKar, Second. 

Bum Blianrnik, Third. 

Barn M ukhopadhyay , Third. 

\ i ivt i >uihn. Third 
’Ta pa ti Biswas, First. 

Siklia Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

Tupuli Mitra, Second. 

Sipra, ( hat topadlivay , 'Third. 

I la Gulia, 'Third. 

Binapam Das, Third. 

Ni \ ati < Tmk ra hart i, Tliird. 

Sun i ti ( Tmkrahnrti, Second. 

Mira Si *ii , Third 

Pita Dasgupta, Third 

Bharat i ( Jinkrahurti , 'Third. 

Mniinti 'Talukdar, Third. 

Pemika Basak, Third. 

"nlekha Saha, Second. 

Gitasri Datta. 'Third. 

• Maiijiiliku iMukhopadh.va v. Third 
Ka mala Ba nd\ opa-tlh \ay , Third. 

> Konialax alii Narasimlian, Thud. 

1 Mi hit a Pa Mink. Third. 


:»( H) Chhayarani Bhattacharyya, Third, 
oik) Dipun Datta, Second. 

7 >00 La k slu ill Debi, Third. 

7>l >7 Siuriti Sen, 'Hurd. 

,>US Dipti Laluri, Third. 

010 Dipti Dasgupta, Third. 

7)17 Mnmi-1 Datta, Third. 

7>22 Kal pa n a Lahiri (Mrs. Majiimdar), Second. 

7)21 Bum Som, First. 

7»27» Mna M u klmpadlty ay , Third. 
o.’U (uta Das, Third. 

7>.U Mancha Bliat tiachai >y a , Third. 

.).>(> Anja-li l)as, 'Third. 

7>|0 Pa ni I Ray , Third. 
o 1 2 .lay anti Ghosh , 'i'hird. 

011 Bandana Gaugopiulliyay , Third. 

7*10 ( hliaya Chakraharti (Mrs. Biswas), 'Third. 

7>PJ Lrmila Bamurse, Second. 

.V)l Miiiipin Dasgupta, Second. 

Ao 1 Anjali Pin (Mis. Chnudhuri) , Third. 

7)0 1 Anjali ( Imkraharti (Mis. Bandyopadhyay ) , Second. 
7,01 Mira < 'liakratia»rt i , Second. 

7>0H (‘hliamla Basil, lhird. 

7> , O Amina Nalimuy, Third. 

7»7l Mridula Barua, Second. 

7*77) Muriel Maria Sylas, 'Third. 

:,7s lla Basu. Third 

,,<0 A i at, i Mukhopudhy ay Third. 

’»H1 Knshna Bundy opadhy ay , 'Third. 

.Mill Bhahani Basumajuindar (Mrs. Gulia), Third. 

«)i)J Vrati Ghosh, 'Tliird 
7)0 J Malati Das, Third. 

■V. K > A u,i ii 1 1 ( ’hat tupudhy ay , 'Third. 

7>07 Gitswijali Karplia, 'Thud. 

000 Dipa < 'haudhiiri. 'Tluid. 

00:4 Pekha Bhauuuk, 'Third. 

OOO Meeiiamhal Sriimasaii, Second. 

o07 Bhakt limn i Dasgupta (Mrs. Sen). Third. 

old Dm gu Basu, 'I hirci. 

nil \ mil .>• Ba.su . I Ini <1 

017) Dt/ia Gulia 'Tim cl 

OK* Pvklia liny , Thud 

021 Swiisti Samaddar, Third. 

024 (jji ta Basu (Mis. Mitra), Second. 

1)27) lla Dclmn , 'Third. 

020 \njali Mukhopadhyuv, Third. 

027 Pat raleklia* M uklmpadhyay , Second. 

028 Smgdlia ( liatl o; adlniu , Second. 

Of) Dolnku Saikai, Tluid. 

(•JO Pushpa De, 'I lunl. 

Oil Soph. i hka ('luik i aha i ti. Second. 

(ill Kalpana Ma*juimlar, Tlnrd. 
o IS Jliartm Mitra, Third 
07)4 Anita Gupta, 'Third. 

«*>f:7 Anuta < ‘ha ttopadhvay , 'Third. 

007> I > i ] » 1 1 Dasgupta, 'i'hird 
(K>7 Pnhi Laluri, Tim’d. 

071 A ii mi Ii Sarkar, Secuiul. 

07(j M;’«ii!sli.i Saha. Tliijd. 
oS2 Panil Dns. 'Third. 

OSs Bliaiati Dasjiupt.a, 'Third. 

000 Prahiiat.i Gupta, 'Third. 
ti*J7 Niluna < 'li.iki abarti, 'Third 

000 Mainntn ( ha 1 1 opadlmn 'Third 

1 01 Binapam Pa\ , I bird 
707, Kama la Basil, Second 
717 Mninuln Das Third. 

72 t Patna ( Om'iopjwlliynv. lhird. 

721 Namita lia\ (Mi> Paviha mlhuri ) , Third 
72') Sila Sarkai I liini 


•* « i * ».n nay , uiim. 

Lila Bamlx (/pmlliyay , 'Third. 

Bmanti Bhat tacluirvya , 'Third. 

Biua 'Tapaswi. Third. 

'"anti Barul.vopadliyiiv , 'Tliird. 

I aii kslmi i Bhatt:K-liar\ya , Third. 
s ’0ata De, Third. 

Mina* Sen (Mrs. Dasnupta), Seemiri. 

S( ’phali Chattopadh.N ay. Third. 

Ma.\a Al ukhopadliyax , Third. 

^ a .l i n a Sa.m i , Second . 

Mira Chaudhuri, I'hird. 

Dehika Guhn (Mrs. Alajumdar), Third. 
'•»tu1 Kundu, Tlnrd. 

Duma 1‘arbat, 'Tiiird. 

Suharna Sen, Tliird. 

'•aiiri Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

Vn]a*li Pal. Second. 

Bandana Ghoshal (Mrs. Bhattncharvya) . 
Jhnita Sinharay (Mrs. Blios) . First. 

Bella Barman, Second. 

Jj.uoiar Bej^um, Second. 

. Nuzhat Ara Be«nm, Second. 

Kalpana Sen, Second. 

Krishna Sahani, Third. 


i 20 Main M ukhopailhvay , 'Third. 

/.)! Mini ulu Gulia, 'Thinl. 

70.7, It 1 1 1 )\ D.iseuptm. Kirst 
7J0 Mum ('hall opadliv a> , 'Third. 

< U Siiii 1 1 ikatm Ba\ « liaudhuri, 'Third. 

7 10 StiMiana \i\o*»i (Mrs. Gupta), Third 
<7)7i "ialntri Das. Third 
/<)(» \ int i Nafh Second. 

,n:i Kurkhondeh Kasham. First. 

707 Namita- Datta, 'Third. 

772 Diptirani Sen^upLa, 'Third. 

777 Sandhva Basu, Third. 

7H1 (iauri "'cnminta. Third. 

<S2 M ma Chandliuii (Mrs. Dasmiplat, First 
7S:i Kama Ba mlyo| adh> ay , Scccmd. 

7«^ r » Supti Giihatha)kiirla, Third. 

7 SO X Aiemiakshi (Airs. Narayan), Kirst 

S02 \nuriipa (ioswami. Thirl 

SO. 4 Gavatri ( ’hattopudhvay , Third. 

^OA Mauika De, Second. 

S07 Atlili Chaudhuri, Third 

808 Mamu Basil, Third. 

809 Kahita* Bandyopadhyay (Mrs. Chattopacinyay), 

Third. 

810 J.votsna Ghosh, Third. 



132 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


No., name and division. 

Non-coliaglate Students 

ROLL CAL. F. N. 

812 NihedRa Gupta, Third. 

81.' ) li a lika Ihisu, Thinl. 

HIT. Blmrnti Chaudhuri, Third. 

SI 7 Manjuri Maulik, Third. 

825 Ma.va Chakraharti, Third 
829 Aparnn* Goswumi, Third. 

8:11 Hckha Gangopadhyay, Second. 

8.16 Anjnli Sengupta, Third. 

5.17 Aparna Haidar, Third. 

S:is Siikiiuia Mukhoimdhwiy, Second. 

811 Tulurani Kabi, Third. 

Hit Dipali (tiattopadhyav , Third. 

856 I iidu Mclira, Second. 

857 Sit a Mehta, First. 

860 .1 nthika Dasguptn, Thud. 

S(»l I him Biswas, Third. 

8(18 Gitanjali Aich, Third. 

87.t Rienukn Rudra, Third. . 

871 (Tma Majuindar (Mrs. Hnycha-udhuri) , Hurd. 

880 Prat ima On*. Third. 

881 Hubv Basil. Third. 

8K.t Lekiiarani Pal, Second. 

886 Taragauri llarilal Juni, 'Third. 

800 (Tslm Kiriwi Sarda, Second. 

802 Kva Mukhopadhvay, Second. 

808 Dali Oasjrupta, Third. 

001 Prni ima Hhattacharvya, Second. 

OOA (ilia Ha su. Second. 

008 Swapna ( ’hattopmihyay , 'Third. 

OJ 1 Hum Raw Third. 

018 iVI mat l Hasu, Third. 

020 Manishn Or, Third. 

022 Dipt i Gupta, Third. 

025 l Tslm Son, Third. 

026 Prat ima Mukhopadhyay , Second. 

920 Amina Chaudhuri (Mrs. Hhuttacharyjn), Third. 
000 Krishna Chakrnbarti, Third. 

Odl Hit hiktt Oas, Third. 

OdO Krishna Aclmrvva, Third. 

040 Mira Tarnphdar, Third. 

041 lla Sen (Mis. Gupta), Third. 

052 Hum* Giilmmajunidar, Third. 

055 Hani Hn.w Third. 

050 .Minnrani DeTTi, Third. 

050 Chliava Biswas, Third. 

<H>1 Mira Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

060 Kim tala Chattopadhyay, Third. 

070 Helm Hn>, Third. 

081 Put nl ( tiakraba rii , Third. 

082 Gituipali Hay, Second. 

080 Mira Ha.v, Third. 

002 Oollv Haw 'Third. 

000 Hanpta (Tiattopadhvay, Hurd. 

000 Manjm am Hasu (Mrs. Harkar), Second 
1001 Hi la De, Third. 

1(K18 Kubita Oehi, Third. 

1010 Kalpana Chaudhuri, Third. 

1011 (Tihaya Nandi. Third. 

1018 Kalvam Das, Third. 

1021 Rashida Begum, Third. 

1021 Sunanda Pul. Third. 

1020 .)oll\ Hasu, Third. 

1027 Mirii Ghosh. Third. 

1028 .1 ava-ti Ghosh, First. 

10:U» Helarani Hasu. Third. 

1011 Manpisri Bhart taehary yn, Third. 

1012 Soh ha (Tiakraharti, Second. 

1015 Sati Oatta. Third. 

1017 (ida Hhattacharyya, Second. 

1018 Hckha Bavclmmlhuri, Third. 

10.51 Suharua Hudra, Third. 

1057 Mamuri Sen, Second. 

1(K»0 Madhuri Handvopadhyay, Second 
1062 Reha Nivogi, Third. 

106:1 Heklm- Niyogi, Third 
1068 K. R. Rajalakshim, Third. 

1071 Anjnli Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

1070 Suiekhn TTlfldar, Third. 

1077 Tnilimn Rliy, Third. 

1070 Nam it a Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

1080 Sipra Hodhchaudhuri, Third. 

1084 Him* (Tmmla, Third 
1089 Aniina Chakrnbarti, Third. 

1001 Mira Chakrnbarti, Second. 

1(19:1 lla Oatta. Second. 

1102 Gitaiani Mukhopadhyay. Second. 

HOT M a n.i u rani Ray, Third. 

1110 Ara-ti Hasu. Second. 

1114 Anita Oas, Third. 

1115 Prnimln Oe, Third. 

1116 Manika Ray. Third. 

1117 Mamatn Hasu, Third. 

1121 Hekhn BAndyopadhyay, Third. 

1122 Pratibha Sarkar, Third, 

1124 Heba Ray, Second, 


No., name and division. 

Non-oolTeglaU Student* 

ROLL CAL. F. N. 

Sublira Sen, Tiiird. 

Sarhani Heiigupta, Third. 

Hisakha Das, Third. 

N i lima Hlmttacharyya, Third. 

Sohhii Bha*ttaehary>a, Third, 
lbhn M ukliopadliyay, Third. 

Mamka Pal, Thml. 

Kauika Pal , Third. 

Gita Chattopadhyay, Third. 

Maya Rav , Third. 

Kamabi Ray, Third. 

Supriya Soni. Thinl. 

Sudha Ghosh, Tiiird. 

Santa ana Bliattarharyya, Third. 

Hijava Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

Prakrit i Oas, Secimd 

Pushpa Lata Nijhawan, Third. 

Ziwar Sultan (P), First. 

Fsiia Ghosh , Second. 

Mava Mupumlargupta, Second. 

Hckha Aich, 'Hind. . 

Piiniinia Handvopadhyay, Third. 

Pushpa Tandon, Second. 

M a ml ira> (tiakraharti, Thinl. 

(tihaya Chattopadhyay, Third, 
lla Gangopadhyav, Tiiird. 

Snhnnn Dasguota- (Mrs. Sengupta) , Second. 

.lava nt i ( tiaudhiiri, ttiird. 

I Iasi Chakraharti , Second. 

Siham ( Mianda, Third. 

.Iharna Seuguptn, Third. 

Samita* Oastidar. Third. 

Mira Mitia, Second. 

Sadliana Datta, Third. 

Manpisri Achary.yachaudhuri, Second. 

.1 avail ti Gupta. Second. 

Saint a Ghosh, Third. 

I hi Ghosh, Third. 

.lay a nt i Chattopadhyay, Third. 

Gitasn Ghosh, Third. 

Prana ti Hliai tacharv ya. Second. 

Xilmia Chaudhuri, Third. 

Hi him Gupta, Third. 

(tiitra Oatta. Third. 

.lava nt i Oas, Third 
Hama* (tiakraharti. Third. 

ITnm (tiakraharti, 'Itiird. 

Srilckha Majuindar, Second. 

Hani Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

Mina Gala, Third. 

.1 avail 1 1 Ghosh, Third. 

Hhaiati ( tiwttopndh.vay, Third. 

Mn a Das, Third. . 

I In Chattopadhyay (Mrs. Mukhopadhyay). Third 
M ukt akana Senchaudhiiri, Third, 
i Alo Maulik, Third. 

1 IT. Mathura Hai, Second. 

(ticllu'imuul V., Second. 

1 ml i ilia la Thaverdus Raikundha, Second. 

I H'atnn (tiaudhiiri. Third, 
i Ahala Sikdai. Third. 

’ Ira Hhattacharyya, Third. 

* Triptikana* (tiakraharti. Third, 
i Maya ram Kundu, Third. 

* Manjii Hhammk, Second. 

) A rchana Kundu, Third. 

I Utua T)ns (Mrs. Mukhopadhyay), Second, 
i Nihedita Maitra, Third, 
i Manjii Ghosh, Third. 

) Gita Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

L Krishna M ukhopadhyay, Third. 

I Anjnli Mitra, Third. 

S Madhuri Sanyal, Third. 

) Abhralekha Datta, Third. . « 

\ Dhriti Handvopadhyay (Mrs. Chattopadhyay), 1 111 
1 Namita Hh Attach aryy a, Third. 

) Anjnli Handvopadhyay, Third. 

1 Gita Ghosh, Third. 

) Hatna Mitra. Third. 

I Manjii Ghosh. Third. 

I .Tyotsmi Guharay, Tiiird. 

) Nila Ratnanlal Gmulhi, First. 

1 Mira Raychaudhuri, Third. 

I Kana Ghosh, Third. 

1 Nihnm Datta, Third. 

5 Mridula Ghosh, Third. 

7 G. Rajalakshmi, Third. 

i) Rekhn Chakraharti, Third. 

2 Anjali B»su, First. 

4 Diptikana Ray (Mrs. Ghosh), Second. 

8 Asima Daschaudhuri, Third. 

6 Aloka Basil, Third. 

9 dolly Seth, Second. 

1 Sudesh Knmari, Third. 

2 Snigdha Sengupta, Second. 


THE CALCUTTA GAfflfTfi, MARCH 24, 1462 


m 


m 


No., name and division. 

Non-ootieglate Students 
ROLL CAL. F. N. 


m. 


No., name and division. 

Vtsvi-ooltsgtsts Students 
ROLL CAL. F. N. 


Third. 


Du, .»li Ghosh, Third. 

M .in i n Hasu, Third. 

, I,.. Hhattacharyya, Second. 

vs, . nil D<\ Third. 

\ ]lliml Handyopadhyay, Third. 

Madhuri Basil Third, 
i.na IGidra, Third. 

v t, imsi Mu khopadhy ay , Third. 
tZ .loaidur (Mrs. Pnwn.mk), 
it i hi Gupta, Third. 

' ' Ma.tra, Third. 

> 1 j. l Diiattachuiyva (Mrs. Handyopadhyay), Third. 

\ i ( liana Gnpl®, Third, 

lin In < J "P ta . ,P ,ird v. • , 

a ( haudhuri. Third, 
a lluyehandhnri, Third. 
s ilM 1 1 Sctli. Third. 

|{;ini.i Ihisu, Third. 

i, M .i ( » hi/sh , Second. . 

Mjilma Ihswax (Mrs. Ha\\ ) . Third. 

Koma Hhavnani, Third. 

Dmjra Saha, Third. 

M ,,;7 Ghosh, Third. 

K-ikila Ahhnvalia, Third. 

^ pluli Ghatak, Third. 

1 1 1 1 :i ( hamlhuri. Third. 

I ! i ' 1 1 1 i k a* Kay, Third. 

Kiiiuna Ghosh, Third, 

< *i\ a iiiii 1 1 Datta, Third. 

\ ii i m.i Hay, First. 

Kaiiilii Ka.\ , I lin’d. 

P.hImIi Datta, Third. 

\ a it. i Na«. Third. 

Kliat 1 1 a* llashim, First. 

snk la Miinsi (Mrs. Ghosh), Third 

Kit a ItmvMi, Second. 

Mm i Handyopadfiyay, Third. 

Manmsn Sarkar, Third. 

M.idhim Chnkrnharti, Third, 
li.-klia Ihisu, Third. 

I'l.-lili.-liat i Lain, Third. 

t»a I* rad han, First 
I i.'iiika Sni kai , Third. 

\lmali Gliosli, TTiird 

\< ; ii I u !.i Smichaudlinri, Third. 

Ih.u ima Chukrabarti, Third. 

» !’ Iiaiula I lisWifs, TTiird. 

Il.'ii mK.i ( hattopadhvay. TTiird. 

I • a - . 1 1 1 1 1 M iikhopadh,\ a\ , Smiml, 

M 1 n m^ri Datta, Third. 

Iko.mti < Tiakraharti (Mrs. Ihwiduipadliyay) , Third. 
I'li. ii.m ( 'haUopudhyuy , Ttnrd. 
h.ui'k.i Dr. Third. 

s ni h I .a In n (Mrs. Hhaduii), Second 
iilialn |)e, Third. 

Mini Ghosh, Third. 

I<'\ anii Goswanii, TTiird. 
sum it i Ha.su, Second. 

I * •> tiki IMiat taebaryva, Third. 

M a \ a t padhyav, Third. 

Haii Datta, Third. 

( ' 1 1 a (Tiakrnharti (Mrs. BhattiwTiarvvn). Third. 

hejinti Gupta, TTiird. 

s 'ulihta Handyopadhyay, Third. 

Ha Ikmdvopadhyay, Third. 

S'nti Itudrn (Mrs. Bitsu). Third 
l ’ 1 iin;i M iikhopadhyay, Second. 

I'm luma (Tiakrabarti, Third. 

■hnapnni Guharay, Third. 
s, ‘|*liali Goswanii* Third. 

^jdnta Haidar (Mrs. Mandal), Third. 

n CTiakrabarti, Third. 

V-*'a (Tiakrabarti, Third. 

Hajra, Third. 

nahann Son (Mrs. Guha*), Third. 

handyopadhyay, Third. 

Ma . v « N T ath, Third. * 

! )| l ' al1 Hiattopadhyay, Second. 

» u ,an ' Sinhft, TTiird. 

Guh a. Third. 

■ ,m d.Hin Khaumik, Second. 


Nath, Third. 

2? ^arctiaudhuri, Third, 
r i /)hikhopadhyay, Third. 

\i, J ( ^sikraharti, Third. 
i ; * r ' Vl , SonRupta, Third. 

»m n ,a Sarkar ’ Th ''- J 
s ’ Das Kupta, Third. 

T>ehi, Third. 

K;' a . I '" n - Third. 

\C"u K '" Basu, Third. 

An*; r /^ rs - Bandyopadliyay), Third. 
• 1 lalapatra, ‘ ‘ 


Xilim«, l o apatl 15r Third. 

ibhL?iK Ba ;' i '3 ird - 
°* °hoah, Third. 


1820 Hasi Chukrabarti, Second. 

1827 Gita Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

1829 Ilium Ghosh, Thira. 

1840 Atasi Hay, Third. 

1842 Shirley Ghoshal, Third. 

1845 Si la Handyopadhyay, Third. 

184(3 Tarumani i)e. Third. 

1851 Hralthharnni Biswas, Third, 

1855 Sakma Ahmed, TTiird. 

1858 Hharati Bagehi, Third. 

18(>U Ndima Dasguptn, Second. 

18(38 Pratimu dn*ttopftdh.vu\ , Third. 

1874 l J ilia l)ebi, Third. 

1878 Malina Datta, Third. 

188 4 ArnLi CTiattopadhyay, Third. 

18811 Madhukanta H. Thacker, Third. 

1892 Ira Biswas, Third. 

183)5 Sniritikana Hay, Thira. 

183)7 Dehika Sengupta, Second. 

183)8 (Tiarunnlmi Hnychaiidhuri, Third. 

13)11 .Tyc/tsna Ghosh, Second. 

13)10 Anpih Havchaudhuri, Second. 

13) IS Durganini Haidar. Second. 

1 020 A rati Saha, Third. 

13)21 Him ih» Saha. Third. 

13)21 Bitliika Datta, Third. 

13)51 Aparna Sen, TTiird. 

13)52 Madliuii Biswas (Mrs Niyofgi), Third. 
I3KK3 Bam < Tiaudhnri. Third. 

13)11 Hetiuka Biswas. Third. 

1 3) 1 1 Del ice Nora H'tiiiinoii^. Third. 

13)50 Arcliita Bandy onadhy ay, Third. 

1951 Kalyani Rmha, Third. 

1 3)55 Uma Dattagupta, Third. 

13)5(> Kami in Karnath, First. 

13)58 Aniturani Maiti, Tlnnl. 

1900 Sant i Bandvopadh\ ay. Third 
1970 Dipalika Hay, Second. 

1977 Sati Haidar, Second. 

13)78 Heba Ghosh, Third. 

13)73) Mann Pod da i (Mrs. Kundu), Second. 

13)82 Hein CTiaudhuri, Third. 

13)8(3 Parul (Tiaudhnri, Third. 

20:15 Gauri Hasu. Second. 

2042 Sihani (Tiaudhnri (Mrs. Ghosh), Third. 
204 4 Anjali Sen (Mrs. Mukhopadhyay), Third, 
2018 Maya Malialnnahis, Second. 

2052 \l. I.ftkshmi Ayyer. Third. 

2051 Mrinalini (Tiaudhnri , Third 
20(52 Siitianda Gupta, TTiird. 

2000 Mint Konar, Third. 

2103) Hi uhma<Tu»rii)i Malmmaya, Third. 

2111 Huhy Ghosh. St*eond. 

2127 \</rali ( 'minors. First. 

2159 Pushpaiani Das, Third. 


ROLL CHANDER. F.N. 

8 Helm (Tiattopadhvay , T'hird. 

1(3 Anita Seiigiipta, Second. 

II Hama St»n, Third. 

10 Naniitn Hkil, Third. 

17 Lbha Chandra. TTiird. 


ROLL CONT. F.N. 

2 Jyotsnarani Alisra, Tliird. 

7 A rati llhaumik. Second. 

9 Prakriti Basu, Third. 

10 Hina Pntlanayak, Third. 

14 Pnshpa Basil, Third. 

17 Syamali Sinha, Second. 


ROLL OAR. F.N. 

11 Sudharani Pradhan, Third. 

17 Laxmi Maya Niraula, Third. 

19 Man Kumari Clhettri, Third. 


ROLL DIA. F.N. 


5 Mira Datta, Second. 

7 Hasan ti Ha«n, Third. 

9 Abliarani Mitra, Third. 
12 Manjulika Ghosh, Third 


ROLL QARH. F.N. 

3 S.ph.li Sinha (Mr». Datta), 8*xmd. 



134 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29 , 1962 


[P-'ifi 


No., name and division. 

Non-CoJleglata 8tudents. 
ROLL QOB. F.N. 

3 Kithikarani Sarkar, Second. 


No., name and division. 

Non-ool legists 8tudent. 
ROLL KALNA. F.N. 

1 Syamala Maulik, Third. 


ROLL HAB. F.N. 

2 Amina Chakraharti, Third 
8 liasanti Dasgupta, Third. 

13 Jyntirmayi Ghoshal, Third. 

16 Uina Chaudhuri, Third. 


ROLL HETAM. F.N. 

2 Dipti Adhikari, Third. 


ROLL KANDI F.N. 

1 Arati Mukhopadhyay (Mrs. Chattopadhvav) c 

2 Minati Sinha, Third. 1 

6 Namitnrani Debi, Third. 


ROLL KHARAG. F.N. 

3 Bithika Datta, Third. 

5 lla De, Second. 

6 Nilima Ray, Third. 


ROLL HOW. F.N 

15 Sachirani Ghoshal, Second. 

28 Bina Chattopadhyay, Third 
36 Chhanda Saha, Third. 

45 Anima Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

47 Sn eh a lata Biswas, Third. 

53 Gita Munsi, Third. 

59 Asrulekha De. Third. 

62 Narni ta Chattopadhyay, Third. 
65 Matmxta Datta, Third. 

71 Champa Chandra, Third. 

84 Bela Maitra, Third. 

99 Gita Pal, Second. 

108 Gayatri Ghosh, Third. 

109 Ira Chakraharti, Second. 

Ill Latika Ghosh, Second. 


ROLL KRI. F.N. 

4 Mmati Chakraharti, Third, 
fi Niluprabha Chaudhuri, Third. 

7 Ua St>n, Third. 

13 Phulrenu Dehi. Third. 

15 lla Ray, Third. 

10 Gita Sanyal (Mrs. Patranahis) , Third 
29 Santirani Karmakar, Third. 


ROLL MAHI. F.N. 

2 Tarn lata Hera (Mrs. Maiti), Second. 

3 Jhurna Samanta, Third. 

4 Padinaruni Bent, Third. 


ROLL HUG. F.N. 

2 Ktvlpana Chakraharti, Third. 

4 Aratika Pal, Third. 

7 Kalpana Bhattacharyya, Third. 

17 Sukla Dattagupta, Third. 

38 Dipuli Baiulyonadhyay, Third. 

43 Mivnorama Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

44 Nihedita Sell. Third. 

52 Anita Chattopadhyay, Third 


ROLL ITA. F.N. 

I Gayatri Chattopadh vuy, Third. 

5 Tundra Das, Third . 

7 Krishna Alajmndar. Second. 

8 Bnkul Chakraharti, Third. 


ROLL JAL. F.N. 

6 Usha Guha, Third. 

16 Anjali Chakraharti, Third. 

24 Sulata Dattachaudliun, Second. 


ROLL JANGI. F.N. 

6 Mina Sanyal, Third. 


ROLL JHAR. F.N. 

4 Rnbu Basu, Third. 

7 Rcnukat Maiti, Second, 

8 Usharani Sen, Third. 

10 Abha Mandal (Mrs. Maiti), 'third. 


ROLL MAL. F.N. 

7 Prutitna Chakraharti, Third. 

17 llihharani Kundu, Third. 

22 Sad liana Sanyal, Third. 


ROLL MID. F.N. 

2 .lagaddhatri Paik, Third, 
lu Aniinu Sil, Third. 

13 Salehu Khatuu, Third. 

15 Mira Mukhopadhyay, Third. 


ROLL NASA. F.N. 

10 Sephali Ghosh, Third. 

IS Beha Ray, Third. 

22 Auuna Chakraharti { Mrs. Bhattacliaivv.il 

34 Santiniayi Goswami, Third. 

35 Sinriti Sanyal, Third. 

.'18 Bihha Bamlyopadhyay , Third. 


ROLL NABAGRAM F.N. 

11 Basanti Ghatak, Third. 


ROLL NAI. F.N. 

12 Anita Nag, Third. 

19 Keba Chattopadhyay, Third. 

20 Suniti Bhattacharyya, Third. 

21 Maya Chakraharti, Third. 

24 Kshanika Bur, Third. 

29 Asrukana De, Third. 

38 Binapani Aditya, Third. 

46 Manjusri Das, Third. 

47 Latika Debi, Second. 


ROLL JIA. F.N. 

1 Nihedita Kar, Third. 

ROLL KAILA. F.N, 

3 Shelley Bhattacharyya, Third. 

7 Binapani Bhattacharyya, Third. 

ROLL KALIM. F.N, 

3 Debjwil Ghosh, Third. 


ROLL RAI. F.N. 

8 Minati Dasgupta. Third. 

13 Gitarani Basu, Third. 

14 Nandita Sen. Second. 


ROLL RANA. F.N. 

6 Mira Chakraharti, Third. 

16 TTsharani Deb, Third. 

24 Putul Gangopadhyay, Third. 

38 Abha Biswas, Third. 



$HE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


135 


Part t$1 


No., name and division. 

Non-oolleglate students. 
ROLL RANG. F.N. 


No., name and division. 

Non-oollegiato Students. 
ROLL UTTAR. F.N. 


0 Meba Das, Third. 

8 Mamata Barua, Third, 
i) Shakuntala Devi Sarma, Third, 
li) Manjusha Majinndar, Third. 

12 Mira Das, Second. 

]3 A rati Chakrabarti, Third. 

]8 Narinder ltaj pal, Third. 

20 Krishna Mohmi Narnia, Third. 

21 Mrudula Shah, Second. 

23 Savi rider Kaur, Third. 

24 Kanjit Kaur Soni, Second, 
go Saroj Omprakash, Second. 

2(1 Molirun Nisa, Second. 

27 Kainla Chhabra, Second. 

34 Mirarani Pal, Second. 


ROLL RANI. F.N. 

I Sukla Mitra, Third. 

> Sikta Deb, Second. 

> Susmita Sen, Third. 


ROLL RI8H. F.N. 

2 Sephali Gungopadhyay , Third. 

4 .Iharna (loswatni, Third. 

Alma Chaudhuri, Third. 

(1 .futhika Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

10 Dhirarani Gupta, Third. 

]| Nil min Mukhojmdhyay, Third. 

13 Bela Basil. Second. 

14 Gita Ba^chi, Third. 
p> Mnkta Nandi, Third. 

17 Alaka Pal, Third. 

10 Pratuna Basil. Third. 

31 Dipu Datta, Third. 


ROLL SANTI. F.N. 

3 Kamala Pramamk. Tliird. 

4 Bithika Chakrabarti, Third, 
o Pialima Ka>, Thud 


ROLL SER. F.N. 

•< «»! i.i 1 1 Second. 

•'» Tripti I *ii.l , Thiid. 

Mira Gliosli, Third. 

* Biinva Kay, Se< ond. 

10 Anjali Ghosh, Third. 

11 Aparmi Sarina Third. 

14 Dipali Surma, Third. 

<•’» dayanti Mitra. Second. 

17 lauhnii Mitra, Third. 

-I Sadhana Deb, Third. 

30 IValima Chattopadhya.v, Tliml 

33 Manju Mitra, Third. 

34 Hasi Mitra, Thud. 

W Arch an a Sen, Third. 

II Minati Bandyopadhyay , Third. 
40 Chayna Bandyopadhyay, Third 
Ml Purnima Ghosh Third. 


2 llmarani Das, Third. 
r> Bijanprutima Maiti, Second. 

(> I la Sengupta, Third. 

7 .Jayasri Chattopadhyay , Second. 

8 Syamali Ghosh, Third. 

10 Gita Biswas, Third. 

11 Chhaya Maiumdar, Third. 

1(1 Sephali Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

17 Sankari Ghosh, Third. 

18 Manjusha Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

20 Manjuiika Bhaumik, Third. 

21 Sulekhu Chnttnpudh.Miy (Mrs. Bandyopadhyay ) , 

Third. 


ROLL AGAR. N. 

1 Santiram Sen, Second. 

2 Muhendrakuinar Bal, Second. 
f> Nirmalchandra Pal, I’hird. 

10 Sunilbaran Chakrabaiti, Second. 

12 Sanilutauanda Kanjilal, Thiid. 

M Dhircndrakumar Des.it kar, Tliml 
1(1 Dmsechandrn Bliatt ncharyy a, Third. 
10 Pulmbihari Saha, Third. 

2o .Juaneiidra Adhikmi, Third. 

30 Diiieschnndra Deh, Second. 


ROLL ALIPUR. N. 

1 Nirunjan Desarkar, Third. 

3 Sudhirchandra Sarkar, Third. 

4 Anilchandra Goswaim, Third. 

ROLL AMTA. N. 

0 Kalyaneswar Kay, Third. 

ROLL ARAM. N. 

;"> Sk . Kahial lloquo, Third. 

ROLL A6AN. N. 

L Phelaram Mahata, Third. 

3 Aditynsadhun Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

4 Madaninohnn Bhattaoharyya, First. 

II Din^ada^ Ghoshal, Second. 

ROLL BAGNAN N. 

1 SnchendubhiiRhan Mallik, Third. 

2 Bidhuhhushan Samanta, Third. 


ROLL BALUR. N. 

2 Sukhcnduhikas Sarkar, Third. 

4 Siuikarnaravan Bhaumik, Third. 

6 Kadlieseliandi a Ohattopndhyay, Third. 
0 do^cschandra Das, Third. 

1(1 Dmcschandra Biswas, First. 


ROLL BANG. N. 

4 Ahhimanyu Biswas, Third. 
f> Bhuktipnda Mukhopadhyay, Third. 


ROLL 8ILI. F.N. 


ROLL BANK. N. 


£ Bushpa Datta, Third, 
lo Narnita Mahalannbis, Third. 
Sand h.v a Chakrabarti, Third. 


ROLL TAKI. F.N. 

? Santwana Datta, Third. 

” Mukti Bhattaoharyya, Third. 


ROLL TAM. F.N. 


1 

3 


11 

12 
13 


Manjari Bhaumik, Third, 
mrinala Maji, Third. 

Mukti Chattopadhyay, Tliird. 
Anhana Chakrabarti, Third. 

* ash pa rani Misra, Third. 
Burabi Kay, Third. 

Maya Basu, Third. 


ROLL ULU. F.N. 

6 B*ai Chakrabarti, Third. 


1 datindranath Pani, Third. 

6 Atuindaitmlian Mahata, Second. 

0 Manascliandra Bandyopadhyay, Second. 
8 Durgapada Patliak, Second. 

10 Ajitkiimar Patra, Second. 

13 Santoshkumar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
J5 Haridas Bandyopadhyay, Thir<l. 

17 Muktipada Akhuli, Third. 

18 Kakhahari Chakrabarti, Third. 

10 Adityaprnsad Mahapatra, Third. 

23 Suktipuda Mukhopadhyay. Third. 

26 Santimay Biswas, Second. 

2C> Sacliehidananda Haidar, Third. 

30 Sukhamav Hhandari, Third. 

3f> Sudhirkumar Kar, Third. 

37 Dinendranath Guha. Third. 

13 Biri’tidrakumar Pal, Third. 

40 Adityakumar Sinha, Third. 

52 Parimal Chattopndhyny, Second. 

69 Binodhihari Acharyya, Third. 

70 Parimal Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

71 Nariigopal Das, Third. 

72 Biswanath Aditya, Third. 

74 Kalipada Panda, Third. 

76 Phakirchandra Sinhababu, Third. 





THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


f P art flj 


m 


No., name and division. 

Non-Col legiate 8tudonts 
ROLL BAR. N. 

3 Sk. MoDhur Ahamniod, Third. 


ROLL BARRACK. N. 

1 Madhusudan Hay, Second. 

2 Sudhansusekhar Chakrabarti, Second. 


ROLL BA8IR. N. 

2 Hadhakrislina Pal, Second. 

5 .Jagatbandhu Das, Third. 


ROLL BER. N. 

1 Gaurhari Datta, Third. 

3 Adhirkumar Pandit, Third. 

4 Bhaskarananda Chakrabarti, Third. 

0 Sudhirkumar Datta, Third. 

9 Ajitkumai Das, Third. 

11 Sndhakar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

2J Hiinalchandru Chakrabarti, Second. 

22 AbinuHchandra Bhattacharyya, Second. 
27 Ti ibhangamuiuri Chakrabarti, Third. 


ROLL BIRB. N. 

1 NalmkiiTmir Pal, Second. 

3 Kshitischandra Chakrubarti, Third. 
5 Shaikh Salem Mohammad, Third. 

10 Damodarpi usad Dattu, Third. 


ROLL BI8HNU. N. 

5 Pi aphullnchamlra Ghosh, Third. 

8 Svamsundar Das, Third. 

9 Sisirharnn Konar, Second. 

11 Kiritibhushan Chakrabarti, Second. 

34 Gopalchandra Kundu, Second. 

19 Prnhhat kuinar Handy opudliy ay. Third. 

21 Dina band hu Karmakar, Third. 

22 Hiswanath Konar, Third. 

23 Kalikrishna Chattopadhyay, Third. 

20 Ohittaranjan Mandal, Third. 


ROLL BOL. N. 

5 Nripendranatli Mukhojmdhyay, Third. 

8 Shashthigopal Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

9 Adhirkumar Dasbairagya, Third. 


ROLL BUR. N. 

1 Satyapada Datta, Second. 

*1 Knshnakumar Goswami, Third. 

10 Bidhtihhushan Sadhu, Second. 

17 Sudhirkumar Ghosh, Third. 

23 Ha la ram Handyopadhyay, Third. 

28 Narayandas llajra. Second. 

30 Sudhn kunmr Mandal, Third. 

35 Mrityunjay Chakrabarti, Second. 

39 .lyotirmny Bandyopadliyay, Third. 

40 Sk. Motiar Hahaman, Second. 

43 Pramal hanath Ghosh, Third. 

49 I'mapati Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

51 Bihhakar Pnhi, Third. 

57 Tarapada Sarkar, Second. 


No., name and division 

Non-cotlaglate 8tud*nts 
ROLL CAL. N. 

36 Susilkumar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

41 Santoshkumar Haidar, Third. 

44 Prahlad Mishra, Third. 

45 Lalitkumar Khilari, Third. 

46 Saktipada Mandal, Third. 

51 Pan oh u go pal Pramanik, Third. 

52 Gaurmohan Das, Third, 

53 Noor Alum, Second. 

55 Dehaprasad Haychaudhuri, Third. 

58 Dhirendramohan Bhattacharyya, Second. 

59 Panchkari Mandal, Second. 

61 Nir:idharnn Bhattacharyya, Second. 

68 Annndalal Ghosh, Second. 

70 Anilchandra Saha, Third. 

71 Suriilbaran Man<lal, Third. 

73 Anilkumar Datta, Second. 

76 Gohardhun Bandyopadhvay, Third. 

78 Munshi Abul HasliPtn, Third. 

79 Anathbumlhu Ray, Second. 

94 Bhadreswur Nandi, Third. 

95 Sunilranjan Guha, Second. 

99 Ajitkumar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

101 Dronacharan Ghosh, Third. 

109 Pijushkanti Handyopadhyay , Second. 

Ill Suhalchandra Dolai, Second. 

116 Sarnirkuiiiar Ghosh, Second. 

119 Rabindranath Kaha, Second. 

125 Ainarendrauath (Chakrabarti, Third. 

130 Gobindncliaudra Ghosh, Third. 

135 Bi.jaykri.shna Chattopadhyay, Second 
140 Swadeshundhu Datta, Third. 

143 Sat.vahrata Ghosh, Second. 

146 Sukumar Datta, Third. 

148 Nirmalkumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

151 Bankubihari Datta, Second. 

1 53 Dasarathi Mandal, Third. 

155 Kanakjyoti Handyopadhyay, Second. 

160 Sankarnath Ray, Third. 

161 Sk. Sadaruddin, Third. 

164 Abhimanyu Mandal, Second. 

107 Panchugopal Chattopadhyay, Third. 

108 Adhirehamlra Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

174 A hu tosh Paladhi, Third. 

177 Sudhirchaiidra Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

188 Ranjilkumar Guha, Third. 

190 Sannrendra Chakiabarti, Second. 

191 Privatosh Bliattacliuryya, 'Third. 

197 Syamaprasanna Mukhojiadliyay , Thiid 
226 Bibckcliandi a Das, Second 
305 Si si t*k ii n lit i Chattaraj, Second. 

344 Nuaniankuinar Blnuyan, Second. 

345 Akhilk umar Ghosh, Third. 

391 Niranpiu Malmpatra, Third. 

399 Bimalchatidra Pan, Third. 

41K) Tapendrakumar Mitra, Third. 


ROLL CONT. N. 

1 Madhusudan Maiti, Third. 

3 Alokhanm Maiti, Third. 

14 Dm i_akinkar Hera, Third. 

10 Bhiiniibhiishaii Banda, Second. 

15 Bmandar Kar, Third. 

1 9 .Jau.idisehamlrn Payra, Third. 

20 Anmlyachaian Bora, Third. 

21 Bihhutihhushan Tola, Second. 

23 Nitnicharan Sau, Second. 


ROLL COO. N. 

2 Birendra Sinliaghosh, Third. 


ROLL CAL. N. 


ROLL DAR. N. 


5 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

16 

18 

20 

21 

22 


Bishupada Das, Third. 

Alexander Ashe, First. 

Desmond Kugene Murray, First. 
Hasudeh Rajpandit, Second. 
Bananiali Samanta, Second. 
Gnpinath Ray, Second. 
Ppendrannth Das, Second. 
Nartdadulal Ray, 'Third. 
Raiijitkumar Majumdar, Third. 
Phanibhushan De, Second. 
Mohanchandra Mandal, Third. 
Hirulal Guha, Second. 
Adharchandra Manna, Third. 
Bijaykumar Hay, Third. 
Santidhan Bhattacharyya, Third. 
Santosh Bhattacharyya, Third. 


1 1 Sliiwjeo Prasad Gupta, Third. 


ROLL DIA. N. 

3 Snsnnkasekliar Mandal, Third. 

4 Aksbavkumar Khamaru. Second 

7 Gaurhari Mai, Third. 

8 Md. Mobarok Ali, Third. 

15 Md. Didnr Bux Nasker, Third. 
29 Hatneswnr Haidar, Third. 

34 Amiyarnnjan Bora, Third. 

35 Gorachand Mandal, Third. 

36 Pankajkumar Gayen, Third. 

37 Khagendranath Parua, Third. 
40 Md. Muchha Ali Shekh, Third. 



THE CAIiCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


137 


►iBT IB] 


No., name and division. 

Mon-ootmiata Students. 
ROLL DIN. N. 

i >ld. Kapir Uddin Mia, Third. 

3 Kantikumar Basu, Third. 

4 purnachandra Debnath, Third. 


ROLL GARH. N. 

1 Gahnohan Chattopadhyay , Third. 
3 pbanibhushan Hajra, Third. 

J< Janakinath Kundu, Third. 
j 7 Sankarpada Ghosh, Third. 


ROLL GOB. N. 

] Ajitkumar Acharyya, Third. 

0 Atindranath Misra, Third. 

H Narayanohandra Biswas, Third. 


ROLL HAB. N. 

3 Mamklal Guha, Third. 
f> Kamalesehandra Gangopndh.vay, Second. 

H Anilkumar De, Second. 

t» Suchintyakuinar Bnndyopadh.vay, Second. 


ROLL HETAM. N. 

1 N'irmalchaiidra Das, Third. 

2 Prabodhkumar Sen, Third, 
t; Sarojkumar Hajra, Second. 

12 Aswinikumar Duttu, Third. 

lfi Manabendranath Thakur, Third. 


ROLL HOW. N. 

2 Kumalkmnar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
5i Abamkuniar Sarkar, Third. 

H Sukumar Jana, Third. 

II Nimaichand Basu, Third. 

21 .Juanabrata Chattopadhyay, Third. 


ROLL HUG. N. 

1 Ranichandra Ghosh, Third. 


ROLL ITA. N. 

1 Purbaticharan Datta, Third. 

^ Machinandan Bairagi, Third. 

7 Goptswar Das, Third. 


ROLL JAL. N. 

^ ditendranaih Mohunta, Third. 

■} Ramaprasanna Niyogi, Third. 

’ Syamsankar Talukdar, Third. 

7 Rabindranath Chakrabarti, Third, 
i,. ^udhirebandra Hay, Third. 
u Ntisilchandra Bhattacharyya, Second. 


ROLL JHAR. N. 

^ Katyeudranath Ghosh, Third, 
in kadhanchandra Das, Third. 
iJ ^ntimav Goshthipati, Third. 

4 ^^'aiftschandra Kar, Third. 


ROLL JIA. N. 

^ Uas ^*mali Biswas, First. 


ROLL KAILA. N. 

4 ? ra PhuUakumar Majumdar, Third. 
Ul pendraohandra Ray, Third. 

ROLL KALIM. N. 

Kulpraaad Rai, TWd. 


No., name and division. 

Non-ooliegiate Students. 

ROLL KALNA N. 

1 Gurupada De, Third. 

5 Lak nminarayan Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
11 Samirkunmr Bandy opadliy ay. Third. 

14 Kanailal Nandi, Third. 


ROLL KANDI. N. 

1 Subhead ukumar Nath, Third. 

2 Gopiranjan Sinhu, Second. 


ROLL KAT. N. 

4 Debprasad Chattopadhyay, Third. 

5 Dibakar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

7 Gurucharan Sar, Third. 

8 Durgapada Das, Third. 

9 Basudeb Bandyopadhyay , Second. 

11 Bam&padu Ghosh, Second. 

12 Kamakshyueharan Das, Third. 

22 Sulochan Das, Third. 

20 J&ygopal Sinhu, Third. 

27 Madhusudan Das, Third. 

29 Gorachand Mundal, Third. 


ROLL KHARAG. N. 

5 Achintyakumar Hath. Third. 

9 Sibapraaad Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
12 Gaurisankar Mukhopudhyay , Third. 
14 Bihaspati Bhaumik Second. 

16 Archchanaranjau Maiti, Third. 


ROLL KRI. N. 

1 Anathkumar Biswas, Third. 

2 Ninnalendu Saha, Third. 

7 Ohittaranjan Bhuuimk, Second. 

12 Susantakumur Sihi, Third. 

13 Nanigopal Karmakar, Third. 

14 Achyutananda Biswas, Second. 

10 Pyarimohan Ghosh, Third. 

17 Mohitkumar Joardar, Third. 

19 Bhar&tkumar Biswas, Third. 

23 Ramgopal Biswas, Third. 

27 Gopenarak uinar Mandat, Third. 

28 Sunilkanti Chakrabarti, Third. 

29 Jibendrakumar Bhaumik, Second. 

30 Mir Solaiman, Third. 

32 Nanigopal Brahma, Third. 

35 Ranajitkumur Biswas, Third. 


ROLL MAHI. N. 

2 Radhakrishna Maiti, Third. 

3 Manmathanath Bhuiyun, Third. 

7 Shaikh Aaizur Hohoman, Third. 

8 Sachindranath Das, third. 

10 Harckrishna Dasadhikari, Third. 

11 Purnachandra Muiti, Third. 

10 Dululchandra Nath, Second. 


ROLL MAL. N. 

J Kanuchandra Das, Second. 

3 Niranjankuniar Misra, 'third. 

12 Mohammad Shahahuddin, Third. 
20 Sue! hi rk lunar Dus, Second. 


ROLL MID. N. 

12 Gunadhar Sau, Third. 

21 Bishnuhari Bhuiyan, Second. 

23 Satyeswai Bhattacharyya, Third. 

24 Satyasankar Chakrabarti, Third. 
28 Umeschandra Mahata, 'Phird. 

31 Asitbaran Nag, Third. 

35 Bimalacharun Misra, ThinI 
37 Atulchandra Mandat Second. 

39 Jaynarayan Sharangi, Second. 


ROLL NABA. N. 

2 Gopeachandra Acharyya, Third. 

7 Satyahari Chattopadhyay, Third. 
18 Gaurgopal Goswami, Second. 


138 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


[Part u 


No., name and division. 

Non-eollegiate Students 
ROLL NABAGRAM N. 

1 Danischandra Das, Second. 


ROLL NAI. N. 

1 Amitkumar Maliik, Second. 


ROLL PURULIA N. 

] Umasankar Mukhopadliyay , Third. 

2 Nirmalchandra Ray, Second. 

3 Sripatinath Chattopadhyuy, Second. 

5 Gopalchandra Banayopadhyay, Second. 

6 Gadadhar Mitra, Third. 


ROLL RAI. N. 

1 Dineschandra Jourdar, Third. 

2 Nilratan Gupta, Third. 


ROLL RAM. N. 

1 Ahammad Hussain, Third. 

5 Sayed Badroddoja, Third. 


ROLL RANG. N. 

3 Mrinalkanti Bhattacharvyu, Third. 

5 San ti pad a Chaudhuri, Third. 

7 Asokkumar Biswas, Third. 

9 Nibarranjan Chakraharti, Third. 

12 llanjit Chakraharti, Third. 

13 Dilipkanti Nath, Second. 

14 V. Murugappan, First. 

15 S. S. Khan, First. 

16 Lakshmi Pathy, Third. 

17 S. Muthu, Second. 

20 V. Subramanian, Second. 

21 J. Abdul Kader, Second. 

22 M. Somu Pill ay, Second. 

23 S. Gopala Krishnan, Third. 

24 M. A. M. Jawher, Third. 

25 Jainul Abdoen, Third. 

26 Mohammed Hussain Guny Third. 

27 Karuppiah Palsamy, Third. 

29 Ve. Rajamanickara, Second. 

30 T. Veeriah, Third. 

34 Mahasukhlal Mehta, Second. 

35 Mahendrakumar Chandulal Shah, Second. 

36 Manharlal Modv, Tfiird. 

JIB Navinchandra Thukker, Third. 

39 Gautam Prasad, Third. 

40 Lai Abuja, Third. 

42 Pranlal Bhanabhi Patel, Second. 

43 Omprakash Basawatia, Second. 

44 Navinchandra Shall, Second. 

45 Bishwanath Dhandhania, Second. 

46 Mohan Lai Lhila, First. 

47 Bhola Prasad Pathak, First. 

48 ShyamlaJ Lhila, Second. 

52 Hero Tejoomal Vaawani, Third. 


ROLL RI8H. N. 

1 Rasbihari Demi, Second. 

2 Bidhubhushan Bandyopadhyay, Second. 


ROLL SANTI. N. 

1 Banajaksha Biswas, Seccmd. 


ROLL SER. N. 

1 Gopinath lias. Second. 

4 Prayagdas Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
13 Sanatkumar Chaudhuri, Second. 


ROLL 8YAM. N. 

3 Debsadhan Samanta, Third, 

4 Basudeb Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

6 Sibaram Acharyya, Second. 

17 Bhushanchaodra Ghosh, Third. 

28 Anadibhushan Bandyopadhyay, Third. 


No., name and division. 

Non-coiiegiate Student*. 
ROLL TAKI. N. 

1 Anantapada Biswas, Third. 


ROLL TAM. N. 

1 Nagendranath Samanta Third. 
3 Ramchandra Samanta, Third. 

12 Sudhirchandra Kar, Second. 

17 Bankimbibari Jana, Third. 

19 Sheikh Makram All, Second. 

21 Chittaranjan Ghorai, Third. 

24 Bhimcharan Panda, Third. 

25 Sitaichandra Patra, Third. 

28 Nagendranath Sasmal, Third. 


ROLL ULU. N. 

3 Prasaddas Bandyopadhyuy, Third. 
5 Sridamchandra -Tana, Third. 

7 i'rabhatkumar Samanta, Third. 

8 Krishnacharan Pal, Second. 

9 Rampada Das, Third. 

11 Kalipada Kapat, Second. 

16 N a ray an chandra Ghanta, Third. 

29 Asimkumar Samanta. Third. 

33 Gunadhar Maiti, Tlurd. 


ROLL UTTAR. N. 

1 Nilkamal Mitra, Third. 


Non-Collegiate External Students. 

ROLL AGAR. EXT. 

7 Prabhaschandra Dhar, Second. 

9 Haradhan Datta, Second. 

14 Gopalchandra Chakraharti, Third. 

17 Sudhirchandra Datta, Third. 

21 Makhanlal Chakraharti. Third 
25 Pram odch and ra Das, Third. 

29 Mrinalkanti Datta, Third. 

32 Hiranmay ltay, Third. 

33 Krishnadas Pal, Second. 

.‘16 Agnikumar Acharyya, Second. 

40 Pratwpaditya Majunuiar, Third. 

45 Murarimohan Nath, Third. 

49 Syanial Chakraharti, 'third. 

50 Samarondrachiindra Datta, Second. 

54 Rareschaudra Buuik, Second. 

69 Manindrachamlra Bhattacharyya, Third. 

60 Phanibhushan Ra.v, Third. 

61 Haripada Chakraharti, 'third. 

64 Amarendranath Rakshit, Second. 

69 Sudhindrabhushan Ray, Third. 

70 Sunilkumar Pal, Third. 

72 Sankarhrata Dhar, Third. 

76 Subodhranjan Chakraharti, Second. 

77 Suhimal Bhattaolmryya, Third. 

88 Hariprasanna Chaudhuri, Third. 

93 .Jyotirmay Ghosh, Third. 

95 Rakhalchandra Ganchaudhuri. Second. 
Ill Nisikanta Debnath, Third. 

120 Khageskumar Debbarman, Second. 

124 Kumudbihari Baidya, Third. 

125 Paritosh Dasgupta, Third. 

137 Gopiballabh Chakraharti. Third. 

138 H arid as Deb, Third. 

139 Sudhirchandra Saha, Second. 

140 Dipakkumar Bhattacharyya, Second. 

147 Asitkumar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

150 Satyabrata Sengupta, Second. 

151 Samarendranarayan Datta, Third. 

154 Sasankasekhar Guha, Third. 

158 'taranikanta Chakraharti, Third. 

161 Nisikanta Sarkar, Third. 

163 Dineschandra Das, Third. 

165 Nityaranjan Basu, Third. 

173 Paresehandra Biswas. Second. 

171 Ranjitlal Saha, Third. 

177 Asutosh Bhattacharyya, Third. 

178 Dineschandra Saha. Third. 

185 Nripendrachandra Kar, Third. 

187 Pareslal Rav, Third. 

200 Haripada Chakraharti. Third. 

213 Prapnullakumar Chakraharti, Third. 

215 Kalipada Datta. Third. 

228 Smarajft De, Third. 

229 Nirenkumar Bhattacharyya, Second. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


139 


P*rt IB] 



No., name and division. 

Non-Colleglate External Students. 

ROLL ALIPUR. EXT. 

j Dilipkumar Mitra. Third. 

<3 Haripada Biswas, Third. 

•3 Miliirkumao* Majumdar, Third, 
u Manoranjan. Das, Third, 
oo Sachchidananda Taraplidar, Third. 

7y> Han jit Sinharay Third. 

jMiambhuBhan Majumdar, Third. 

■jl Sa*smdrakumar Kar, Third. 

•p Satyaranjan Das, Third. 

4* Molntranjan JDas, Tliird. 

44 Dhirondranath Das, Third. 

4 y Amalendu Nandi, Second. 
r,o Manoranjan Chanda, Second. 


ROLL AMTA. EXT. 

'2 Sankarkumar Bhattacharyya, Second. 
10 Subodhgopal Mukhopadbyay, Third. 


No., name and division. 

Non-Colleglate External Students. 
ROLL BAGNAN EXT. 

1 Sisirkumar Chaudhuri, Third. 

4 Baukunohandra Maiti, Third. 

5 Hrisbikes Jana, Third. 


ROLL BALUR. EXT. 

4 Basudeb Dasgupta, Second. 

0 Narayanchandra Karuiukar, Second. 
10 Arunkumur Dasgupta, Third. 

Id Bidyutkumar Nag, Second. 

20 Rabindranath Datta, Third. 

44 Utsabkumar Mukhopadbyay, Third. 

51 Sunilkumar Ray, Third. 

52 Sambhunath Chattopadbyay , Third. 
59 Naresohandra Debnatb, Second. 

G7 Debdas Gangopadhyay , Tliird. 

70 Sujitkumar Das, Third. 

87 Narendranath Majumdar, Thud 
89 Chittaranjan Karmakur, Second. 


ROLL ARAM. EXT. 

2 llarondranath Adak, Third. 

7 Uaurmohan Jana, Third. 

1U Nanigopal Bandyopadhyay, Second. 
13 Santmath Pratihar, Third. 

12 Bhimcharau Chanak, Third. 

03 Ramkrishna Adhikari, Second. 

71 Gubindagopal Uoswaim, Third. 

10b Gobinducliandra Ghosh, Third. 


ROLL ASAN. EXT. 

Ahhijit Sinhadattaray, Third. 
Subhashchandra Mukhopadhyay, Second. 
.Nuru> an prasad Bhattacharyya, Second. 
Sasiwlhar Bliaumik, Third. 

Purest i a Ih Chattaraj, Second, 
l’hanibhuslian C'hattopadhyay, Third. 
Rabindranath Sarkar, Third. 
Dliiremlraliari Datta, Third. 
AmalendubhuKhan Das, Third. 
Manoranjan Malkhandi, Third. 
Satyakinkar Nayak, Third. 

Muktipada Bandy optnlliy ay, Tliird. 
Nunigopal Misra, Third. 

Sachmdranath Sarkar, Third. 

Kanailal Mukhopadbyay, Third. 

Sat\ akinka*r Bandyopadhyay , Second. 
Hiiankumar Chattopadhyay, Third. 
Sihsankar Ray, Third, 
bipradas Sarkar, Second. 

Hiswunath Mukhopadbyay, Third. 

Arunk lunar Saha, Second. 

Maniklal Mandal, Third. 

Saritpati Mukhopadbyay, Second. 
Sudhirkinnar Ray, Third. 

Senanikmnar Bhattacharyya, Third. 
Samirkumar Bandyopadhyay, Second 
Md. Ayyuh, Second. 
hadlmkiHor Adhikari, Second, 
hsliitischandra Mahata, Third. 

Subodii Andrew Baroi, Third. 
Dlmvndranath Mandal, Second. 

Ik'babrata Dan, Third. 

Motischandra Majumdar, Third. 

Oliolii Prasad, Third. 

M-imndrachandra Baruli, Second. 

Beni prasad Bhattacharyya, Third. 

• ndurkumar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
a as i Hath Lahiri, Second. 

1 1 juiurkuniar Datta, Second. 

Miiui Ray, Third. 

^^mrunjan Sukul, Third. 

'iiKhahari Gangopadhyay. Second. 

< nualkiimar Ghosh, Third. 

•‘ibanisankar Mukhopadhyav, Third. 
Murendralal (’haudhuri. Third. 


ROLL BAGATI EXT. 


I '' tt 't^«apraaad Kundu, 8oc«nd. 

« Mnn ag0paI Nl yogi, Third. 

noranjan Bandyopadhyay, Third. 


ROLL BANG. EXT. 

1 Sudhirranian Biswas, Third. 

2 Praphullakumur Maitra, Third. 

7 Gopalchaiidra Debnath, Third. 

11 Dilipkumar Jlaldar, Second. 

12 Gaurpadu Sarkar, Third. 

19 Pranabkumar Datta, Third. 

21 Dilipkumar Ghosh, Second. 

24 Rupcudranarayan Saha, Second. 

26 Nirmalkumar Pal, Third. 

.‘12 Dulalchandra Datta, Third. 

33 Apurbakumar Chattopadlivay , Third. 

39 Niharkanti Ghosh, Second. 

40 Bimalchandra llasu, Third. 

44 Gurupada Debnath, Second 

48 Bidyutkumar Ohakrabarti, Second. 

52 Sumanta-kumar Biswas, Third. 

G2 Kalidas Basu, Third. 

G4 Narayanchandra Ghosh, Second. 

75 Nirmalendu Dhali, Third. 


ROLL BANK. EXT. 

8 Parimalchandra Ray, Third. 

11 Sisirkumar Ghosh, Third. 

13 Gunakar Mandal, Third. 

17 Satyarunjan Guha, Third. 

20 Bhabatosh Mu sib. Third. 

21 Madanmohan Mukliopadliyay, Second. 
23 Bankinichandra Giri, Third. 

31 Bhabanipada Kutnbhakar, Third. 

32 Bholanath De, Second. 

34 Bibhutibbu shall Mandal, Third. 

38 Sasankasokhar Patra, Second. 

41 Sagarchandra Porel, Third. 

42 Asishkumar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

62 Haripada Kundu, Third. 

68 Ldamay Mukhopadbyay, Second. 

70 Guru doe Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

73 Sudhirranjan Ray, Third. 

75 Prabhatkuraar Mukhopadbyay, Third. 
78 Bhabaniprasad Nandi, Third. 

81 Prabodhchandra Pal, Third. 

82 Ajitkumur Mukhopadbyay, Third. 

83 Kanmlaka»nta Ohakrabarti, Second 
113 Binaykuniar Dhabal, Thiri. 

129 Narayanchandra Kar, Third. 

130 Gopalchandra Das, Second. 

135 AhauihliushfMi Biswas, Third. 

136 Krishnugt/pal Lai, Second. 

141 Durgadas Mandal, Third. 


ROLL BAR. EXT. 

3 Susilkumar Raha, Third. 

5 Binaykumar Chattopadhyay, Third 
10 Baidyanath Mukhopadbyay, Second. 
23 Hrishikes Gangopadhyay, Second. 

27 Arunkumar Chattopadhyav, Second. 

28 Parimalkumar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

41 Animeshchandra Ukil, Third. 

42 Tridibendu Sen, Second. 


140 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


'Part jj 


No., name and division. 

Non-Collegiate External Students. 

ROLL BARI. EXT. 

2 Krishnamohan Patra, Third. 

13 Satyagopal Samanta, Third. 

22 Prabhansukumar Dasghosb, Second. 

.‘14 Tapankumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

42 Tulsicharan Malik. Third. 

.50 Tarapada Pal, Second. 

78 Prasantakuma r Bandy opadhyay, Third. 
86 Niranjankumar Pal, Third. 

99 Uriah ikes Baidva, Third. 

100 Nisithkumar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

112 Durjay Basil, Third. 


ROLL BARRACK. EXT. 

1 Karunakumar Biswas, Third. 

5 Dilipkumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
10 Binaykiimar Acharyyn, Third. 
i:i Ratankumar Bisiyas, Second. 

14 Akhilkumar Ray chaudhuri, Third. 
16 Ajil Singh, Second. 

19 .libanbiliari Ray, Second. 

26 Nandalal Biswas, Third. 

29 Hatyagopal Ghosh, Third. 

35 Atnarendramohan Chaudhuri, First. 


ROLL BASIR. EXT. 

.5 PurnendubikaN Mandal, Second. 

8 Santoshkumar Basil, Third. 

9 Barunkumar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

11 Harananda Biswue, Third. 

14 Sachidiilal Chaudhuri, Third. 

16 Md. Abdul Karim, Third. 

21 Dilipkumar Maiti, 'Fhird. 

26 Makhanlal Nath, Tliird. 

27 Kalidas Bandy opadhyay, Third. 

28 Hemendranath Acharyya, Third. 

.‘10 Kartikchandra Bhattacharyva, Third. 
.Ml S. K. Gul Mohammad, Third. 

38 Bimalchandra Nath, Third. 

40 Nityaranjan Das, Third. 

48 Anilkumar Mandal, Third. 

49 Sukumar Chakrabarti, Second. 

.52 Bimalkumar Gliosli. Third. 

53 Md. Abdul Khwlaque, Third. 


ROLL BER. EXT. 

6 Puahpendukumar Rav, Third. 

9 Dilipkumar Sarkar, Third. 

11 Pnyanath Sarkar, Third. 

19 Sunilkumar Das, Second. 

27 Binaykrishna Modak, Third. 

M3 Ajitkumar Sarkar, Third. 

4.5 Amiyakumaa* Thakur, Second. 

34 Mahadebchandra Das, Third. 

7M Cliittaranjan Mukhopadhvay, Third. 

74 Sachindranath Chattopadhyay, Second. 
80 Dhirendrakurnar Bag, Third. 

87 Pranabkumar Bagehi, Second. 

88 Himalakanta Nath, Third. 

91 Rakhahari Ghowh, Tliird. 

94 Kamaruddin Khan, Second. 

Ill Debikumar Chattopadhyay, Second. 

121 Gangadhar Pramanik, Third 


ROLL BIRB. EXT. 

6 Sadhanchandra Chakrabarti, Second. 
16 Amalkmnar Basu, Third. 

19 Gurupada Datta. Third. 

20 Kanajitkumar Ray, Third. 

2.5 Nirmalkumar Bandyopadhyav. Tliird. 
27 Bidyutkumar Das. Third. 

31 Mathurkumar Ray, Third. 

33 Susantaknmar De. Third. 

37 Sudhaoisusekhar Sinharay, Third. 

42 Narayanprasad Bhandan, Second. 

43 Bijankumar Mukhopadhvay, Third. 
48 Sunilkumar Datta, Third, 

56 Md. Ruhul Amin, Third. 

66 Amiyakumar Bhattacharyya , Third. 

70 Mahadeb Chattopadhyay. Second. 

71 Rampada Lala, Third. 

72 Binaybhushan Das, Third. 


No., name and division. 

Non-CoUeglete External Students. 
ROLL BI8HNU. EXT. 

1 Satyendralal Bandy opadhyay. Third. 

2 Pnthwiraj Ray. Third. 

3 Shaikh Abdul Quddus, Third. 

6 Nitaichandra Dasadhikari, Third. 

8 Debisadhan Bandy opadhyay. Third. 

13 Ramapada Ghosh, Second. 

15 Raj at ha ran GhoBh, Third. 

16 Madanmohan Ghosh, Third. 

21 Prasantakurnar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

23 Anilkumar Ghosh, Seccmd 

24 Bishnugopal Chattopadhyay, Second. 

25 Sadhanchandra Datta Third. 

31 Suphalchandra Mandal, Second. 

34 Susilkumar Sarkar, Third. 

35 Gaurhari Ran a. Third. 

39 Raghunath Gayen, Second. 

40 Sukhamay Sen, Second. 

44 Digbasan Chakrabarti, Second. 

46 Debaprasanna Mitra, Second. 

47 Debsadhan Biswas, Second. 

51 Gaurharan Chattopadhyay, Third. 

53 Nandadulal Palodhi, Third. 

63 Nandagopal Goswami, Third. 

64 Bhaskarchandra De, Second. 

75 Knshnachandra Manapatra, First. 

77 Kamalakanta Smhamahapatra, Second. 


ROLL BOQ. EXT. 

2 Habanyamohan Chakrabarti, Third. 

8 Upendranath Biswas, Third. 

9 Manaskutnar Dasgupta, Third. 

11 Nirmalkumar Das, Third. 

14 Nirtmjan Datta, Third. 


ROLL BOL. EXT. 

2 Ramknshna Sarkar, Second. 

6 Nityanarayan Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
12 Sibsankar Bandy opadhyay, Third. 

14 Saktipada Ghosh, Third. 

18 Naravanchandra Mandal, Second. 

19 Baridburan Ghosh. Third. 

21 Jibankrishna ChaLtopadhyay , Third. 
24 Mrityunjay Ghosh, Second. 

32 Umasankar Mitra, Third. 

43 Pranabk umar De, Third. 

59 Saikh A1 m1.i 1 Hye, Third. 

69 .logmidra Natli Kapoor, Third. 


ROLL BUR. EXT. 

2 Sudhakar Bag, Third. 

3 Syamsundar Ghosh, Third. 

4 Gurudas Haidar, Third. 

7 Narendranath Sarkar, Third. 

8 Abdul Malek Ansary, Second. 

10 Gopalchandra Bhattacharyya, Tliird. 

11 Amarendranath Chakrabarti, Third. 

12 Samir Dasgupta, Third. 

14 Aiitkumar Biswas, Thtrd. 

19 Bimanbihari Sarkar, Second. 

25 G ob i n dacha ml ra» Rakshit, Third. 

31 Surajit Majumdar, Second. 

.‘16 Praphullakumar Do, Tliird. 

45 Anandamohan Pal, Third. 

52 Sujaykrishna Haidar, Second. 

5.5 Ahhimanyu Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

61 Nandadulal Mitra, Second. 

63 Salilkumar Chaudhuri, Seccmd. 

77 Bishnudas Chaudhuri, Third. 

79 Nityananda Adhikari, Third. 

86 Syamaprasad Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

87 Mohanbenu Mukhopadhvay, Third. 

88 Niharkanti Ray, Second. 

90 Satyaranjan Mitra, Third. 

92 Sudhansusekhar Goswami, Third. 

93 Rameschandra Bhattacharyva, Third. 
97 Mahadeb Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

126 Quazi Shamshul Quader. Second. 

130 Mahammed Ilias, Second. 

132 Gangadhar Basu, Second. 

138 Mrinalkanti Dan, Second. 

141 Apurb&kumar Ray, Third. 

142 Kartikchandra Mallik, First. 

144 Patalchandra Mukhopadhvay, Third. 

145 Murarimohan Laha. Third. 

168 Nimadpada Ray, Third. 

179 Bhaskarananda Bhattacharyya, Third. 
181 Anilkumar Ray, Third. 

185 Anilkumar Chakrabarti, Second. 

194 Gedadhar Bear*. Third. 

199 Mayapada Das, Second. 


THE CATiCTJTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


141) 




IB] 


|i7 

hll 
1 01? 

! 10 
U'> 

n:» 

1 10 
rjn 
L’l 

1-j-j 

LM 

12.5 

!‘j<; 

ui 

u: 

IMS 

no 
i m 

m 

i:>o 

152 

101 

102 

171 

170 

is:; 

l*l 

185 

188 

180 

mi 

iw 

'jni 

2U1 
200 
21 1 
212 
215 
217 
210 
220 
221 
22 ° 
■>•»<! 

221 

225 

220 

228 

2‘12 

2:ii 

2.35 

-17 

212 

25M 

2>0 

250 


J4o., name and division. 

Mon-Collegiate External Students. 

ROLL CAL. EXT. 

Ammeshchandra Majumdar, Third, 
fimaybhushan Ghoshdastidar, Third. 
Sj»nkarlal Ghosh. Third, 
fiaurgobinda Sarkar, Second. 

Aptnath Chattopadhyay, Third, 
surosf handra Chakrabarti. Third. 
Sasankanath Ghosh, Third. 

|leowma*th Mukhopadhyay . Third, 
[jn.shikes Gangopadhyay, Third. 
Madhabcbandra Bairi. Third. 

Arunkumar Biswas, Second. 
Jnyaritakiimar Ghosh. Third. 

(Onniuav BiswaH. Second. 

Tanvkchandra Sarkar. Third. 

^nroskanti Gangopadhyay, Third. 
Nctramohan Das. Second. 

Ramapati Ghosh. Third 
Xi Ini tan Ghosh. Third. 

Jagadish Prasad Somani. Second 
Si*rojkumar Chattopadhyay. Third. 

Pehdas Sengupta. Third. 

Ilimiybbushan Chattopadhyay, Third. 
Amarendranath Bhattacharyya. Third. 
Xiharchandra Chi/sh. Third. 
Sukheiidukuinar Sengupta*, Third. 

A ptkumar Mandal. Third. 

Kupert Gomes. Second 
Samarendraknmar Dasgupta, Second. 
Sarojkanti llarua. Third. 

Swadeskumar Mukhopadhyay, Second, 
(’ha-nrhalkumar Simlai. Third 
llitkumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
Xa-ravanchandra Acharyya (Ca), Second, 
llirendranath Sikdar. Third, 
lampada Pal, Second. 

(i huhvrri Flasnain Khan, Second, 
(iaurgopal Das, Third 
Sirajul Haque, Third, 
llpuunadhab Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
Amarendranath Saha, Third. 

Zahoor Ahmed, Second. 

Tusharkanti Saha. Third. 

Atmdranath Chattopadhyay, Second. 
Amtkumar Ghosh. Second. 

Narondranath Bhattacharyya, First. 
Sudhischnndra Kay, Second. 

Aiavkumar Bandvopadhyay, Third. 
SachimlranaLh Mukhopadhyay, Second. 
Dohaprasad Datta, Third. 

Sihakumar Bhattacharyya, Third. 
Gopalchandru Maulik. Second. 

Ihslmujmda Patra, Third. 

Palntrumav Sengupta, Third. 

Binui hhnshan Khaskel. Third. 

Pebabniti* Chakrubarti. Second. 
Sat.vasunkar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
Nripendramith Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
Akliilbamlhn Bay, First. 

Sunirnml Gangopadhyay, Third. 
Svamalchnndra Hay, Second, 
llarhhanjan Singh, Second. 
jNaiayanchandra Biswas, Third. 
•UotiKhchandn* Do, Third. 

ITanprasanna Majumdar, Second. 
Ihmcridrak umar Saha. Third. 

I'm Mcurlonath Bhattacharyya, Third. 
HiroiidrakumjM' Bhaumik, Third. 

Samaios Gupta, Third. 
hoflihmuTi Singh Murmu, Third. 

^miilki ishna Pal, Third. 

\nimcshchandra Bhattacharyya, Third 
Anandagopal Bhattaehwryya, Second. 
Binahandhu Dhar, Third. 

^■ild ibhushan Das, Second. 

S'ddliisiinknr Chakrabarti, Third, 
inrunchandrai Basu, Third. 

Basudoi, Sit, Third, 
piintoslikumar Ghosh, Third. 
Lnkshrninarayan Ghosh, Third, 
rasnntakmnar Chattopadhyay, Third, 
y-uiendrananth Majumdar, Third, 
haialkumar Raychaudhuri, Third. 

May Kumar Bangur (Ca), First, 
•;«;lendra Nath, Third. 

J'hpkumar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

•arc snath Pal, Third. 
ant,»,s!ikumar Pramanik, Third. 

• ati mdramohan Lahiri, First, 
huiiondrakrishna Ghosh, Third. 


272 

276 

287 


p VTiiunn, 

Datta, Second, 
"^ndrnnath Biswas, Third, 
h i i imar Bandyopadhyay. Third. 
^Umdrakumar Basu, Third, 
p “jalkumar Basu, Second, 
fin ^L tl r? n i an Chakrabarti, Third. 
b °P«ballabh Naskar, Third. 


No., name and division. 

Non-Col legists External Students. 
ROLL CAL. EXT. 

290 Suhhendranath Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
294 Parimalkumar Ray, Third. 

299 A mines h Bhattacharyya, Third. 

300 Prabhatkumar Saha, Third. 

.10.3 Ppondranath Taraphdar, Second. 

305 Hijaykrishna Poddar, Third. 

.307 Ramkrishna Haidar, Third. 

308 Siibhnshchandrn Kundii, Third. 

.1U9 Prwtu Ichandra Chattopadhyay, Second. 
315 Barindrakuraar Haidar, Second. 

318 Hirendrabandhu Sarkar, Third. 

319 Khagendranath Dandapathak, Third. 

322 Chittaraniwn Das, Third.. 

325 Indubhusnan Datta, Third. 

326 Ranenkumar Biswas, Third. 

327 Biharilal Misra, Third. 

328 Ranendranath Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

.3.32 Nurendramohwn Ghosh, Third. 

3.35 Syed Mohammed Quameriah, Second. 
3.37 Syed Khurshid Ahmed, Second. 

3.39 Ai'tab Alam, Second. 

340 Bidyutkumar Mitra, Third. 

341 Asitkiimar Bagchi, Third. 

344 Santoshbijay Bhattacharyya, Second. 

,349 Santikumar Ghosh, Third. 

351 Chunilal Bhattacharyya, Third. 

360 Priyaukar Chattopadhyay, Second. 

361 Sukumar Sengupta, Second. 

367 Santoshkumar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

369 Subodhchandra Dhar, Third. 

.371 Santiranjan Paitimajumdar, Second. 

.372 Privabrata Basu raychaudhuri. Third. 

373 Sisirkumar Do, Second. 

.375 Paritosh Chakrabarti, Second. 

377 Nanigopal Basu, Second. 

.379 Gaibinath Gangopadhyay, Third. 

380 Rameschandra Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
382 Hitcmdranath Sarkar, Third. 

.‘18.3 Nripcndranath Bharadwaj, Third. 

.‘18.5 Paresnath Ghosh, Third. 

.‘188 Narayanprasad Ravsarma, Third. 

715>1 Man jit Kundu, Tliird. 

39.3 Bimalkrislma Saha, Third. 

404 Chandrasekhar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

405 Si bap rn sad Ghosh, Third. 

411 Nirendrnnath Guha, Third. 

412 Sanjaykuiiiai Majumdar. Third. 

414 Jagatbandhu Chakiaharti, Third. 

416 Molianlal Bern, Third. 

417 Ramapra sauna (iliosh. Third. 

418 Gaurangachandra Sum, Second. 

419 Radharaiuu.il Dhuhul, Tliird. 

420 Chittaranjan Ghallopadhyay, Third. 

421 Sukharanjan Dnttaiay, Second. 

427 Chandrasekhai Bandyopadhyay, 'Phird. 

430 Mukulkanti Hor, Third. 

431 Dipakkumar Dasgupta, Thud. 

432 Apares Sarkar, Third. 

134 Rainendranath Ghosh, 'Phird. 

436 Mohammed llossain. Third. 

437 Md. Nawsher Ah, Second. 

439 .1 agadindraprasad Baychandlinn , Thud. 

1 10 Madnnchandia Dehnath, 'Phird. 

4 46 Asishranjan Senbiswas, 'Phird. 

119 Chittaranjan Ha\. 'Phird 
4-50 Bhaktipndn llhaiumk, 'Phird. 
l'»2 Bamanath Mukhopadhyay, Second 
.5.5.1 Pijushkanti (ihosh. Third. 

156 Amitranjun M.ipinidar, Second 
459 Saiitfishkuniai llasak, 'Phird. 

160 Kasinath Mitra. Second. 

161 Phalguni Das. 'Phird. 

4t>2 Baj Kumar Bur man, 'Phird. 

465 Pniphullaohandra llhatt achaiyya , Thud. 
4(H> Nagendranath Sdsarma, Secoml. 

467 Pankajkumai Sengupta, Secoml. 

170 Sihanath llisv\as. Secoml. 

172 Durgada.s Bantlyopa<lh>as . Tliird. 

47.5 Parimalkumar Bagchi, Second. 

176 Sukesranjan Bay. Third. 

478 dadiilal Datta, Second. 

487 Jitemli akuruai (^hattaraj, Third. 

492 Arunehandra Guha, First. 

193 Pareschandra Ghosh, Third. 

49! Dulalchandra Do, Third. 

49.5 Atnarondranaih Sen, Third. 

497 Prabodhkumar pal, Third. 

198 Gopalchandra Pal, Third. 

501 Suhodhkrishna Ghosh, Third. 

503 Sambhunath Das, Scvund. 

508 Sambhunath Datta, Tliird. 

509 Hukumchand Ghosh, Third. 

515 Balailal Adak, Third. 

519 Satischandra Das, Third. 

520 Debajyoti Dharguota, Third. 

521 Saumendranath Bnanja, Tliird. 



142 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. MARCH 29, 1962 


'.Part 


No., name and division. 

Non-Col legist a External Students. 

ROLL CAL. EXT. 

52*1 Aaiinkumar Ghosh, Second. 

526 Haripada Chanda, Third. 

530 Gobindalal Ghosh, First. 

531 Kisirkmnar Ray , Third. 

534 Kanliranjan Do, Second. 

536 Asinichandra Sen, Second. 

545 Hrajariulnl Miikhopadhyay , Third. 

MO Piju* likmil i Majiundar, Third. 

547 Prangopal Dhar, Second. 

54!) Nirmnlkumnr (Jhat topadhyay, Third. 

553 Priuuihkmuar Basil, Second. 

555 Tamil kiunar FRiattacharyya, Second. 

557 A|itkmmir Dasgupta, Third. 

558 Manoranjnn Miikhopadhyay, Thud. 

.559 Subodhcbandi a Sil, Third. 

565 Tapankuinar Maitra, Third. 

566 Phruhapadu Maiti, Second. 

573 Suiyyaprakas Rhansa.1i, Second. 

574 Pankfijlal Bandyopadhyay, Third 
577 Abdiis Subhan, Third. 

580 Prnhladchandra Do, Third. 

583 Huti ui r Kar, Second. 

584 Sarbaranjan Datta, First. 

588 Rowan I Punish Sal»iki, Second. 

589 Ilarihar Haidar, Second. 

590 Surcsclmndrn Das, Second. 

594 Manzurul Ilasan, Third. 

597 Sainaikumar Raychaudhiiri, Third. 

598 Sal yoschandra Bagelii, Third. 

599 Sucihirchandra Saha, Third. 

600 Snkalyan Bttgchi, Third. 

614 Arupbikas Dasgupta, Third. 

615 Rabiprasad Mukliopadhyay, Second. 

616 Nitaiehandra Datta, Third. 

619 Dcbasish Bhattacharyya, r Ihird. 

620 Manojitkumar Maitra, Third. 

624 Saurondranath Chaki, Third. 

632 Gohindachandra Das, Third. 
ti33 Amulyaratan Das, Third. 

635 Pranahananda Chat topadhyay, Second. 
<>37 Asiitosh De, Third 
640 Manoranjan Pal, Third. 

646 Lab-hand Mallik, Third 
t4S Aswinikumar Ghosh, Third 

6.50 Rani itkimiar Majiundar, Thud 

6.51 Nripendranath Kumar, Tliird. 

656 Kama Icschandra Acharyyu, Thud. 

660 Siddheswar Ray, Third. 

662 Dilipkmnar Niyogi, Third. 

671 Samareschandra Adhiknri. Second. 

674 Kulikrishna Miikhopadhyay. Third. 

675 M ana bond rnnatb Gupta, Third. 

690 Rakhalchandra Sinharay, Third. 

694 Ranjitnarayan Sen, Second. 

695 Arabinda Ghosh, Second. 

697 Sadhankumar Ghosh, Second. 

703 Susilkumar Nandi, Third. 

7(M Sairihhunath Mitra, Third. 

705 Subratakuimu Dasgupta, Third 
710 Sntyaranjnn lihattneharyyn. Third. 

714 Gaurkisor Chattnpadhyav, Thiid. 

716) Asitkumar Sark a r. Third. 

719 Indranath Hhattacliar.vya, Third. 

720 .Tngal kalx an Dehray, Third. 

722 Manoranian Karmakar, Third. 

72.5 Nakulcliandra Mandal, Third. 

726 Sankar Chakrabart i , Third. 

728 Gokulchandra Ghoshal, Third. 

731 Girijansankar Chandhuri, Second 

732 Bhimrhandra Mandal, Second. 

733 Am ahm du Das, Second. 

736 Arddhendu Biswas, Second. 

737 .Tayaritilal It. Pnrekh, Second. 

738 R am endra chandra Guha, Third. 

746 Asokkumar Rav, Third. 

747 .Fogeschandra Nandi, Second. 

750 Gaurisankar Das, Third. 

751 Sukhamay Bhattacharyya, Sei-ond. 

753 Nirmalchandra De, Third. 

754 Bimalcndu Mnjumdnr, Sworn! . 

756 Kalyankumar Chakrabarti, Second. 

758 Manoranjan Pal, Third. 

759 Md. Nasi m Ali, Second. 

765 Sisirchundra Bhaumik, Third. 

767 Birendranath Sarkar, Third. 

770 Gaursundar Das, Second. 

783 Santiranjan Hawladar, Third. 

789 Amalendukrishna Ghoshohaudhuri, Third. 
792 Mrityunjay Bhattacharyya, Third. 

801 Tridibendu Lnhiri, Third. 

808 Dulalchandra Chattopadhya^s Second. 

814 Rabindranath Das, Third. 

818 Sukumar Indu, Third. 

820 Dibakar Mukliopadhyay, Third. 

825 Kalyanbrata Ghosh, Third. 

829 Nirmalendu Nandi, Third. 


No., name and division 

Non-Collegiate External Students, 

ROLL CAL. EXT. 

827 Mih irk lunar Ghosh, Third. 

831 Ajitkiimar Bha<lun. Third. 

S32 ,Ia\ nannan Bhattacharyya, Second. 

833 Balaiam Datta, Third. 

8.16 Surend ran a th Ray, Third. 

846 Rancnrh anath Saikar, Third. 

847 Aiitkiintai Barman, Second. 

818 Kamalkrishn.i Pal. Third. 

850 Sukumar Hajra, Second. 

853 Bidhuhhushan Majumdar, Second. 

85.5 Mrityunjay Ghosh, Third. 

859 Da ud Kumar Minimi, Third. 

H(>6 Panic, swar Chukraharti , Second. 

865) Suhimalkanti Basil, Third. 

876 Binaybliushan Sraman, Second. 

878 Aiiuilkumar Rav, Third. 

879 Ohittaranjan Chakrabarti, Third. 

883 Krishnachandra Cliattopadhyay, Third. 
88!) Siikhendukuinar Deb, Second. 

891 Nripendranath Dasgupta, Second. 

893 Kamalprasad Chandhuri, Second. 

894 Kesahchandra Rav, Third. 

897 Nitaisundar Mukliopadhyay, Third. 

8!)8 Prantosh Ttidu, 'Hurd. 

899 Banin kumar Ray, Third. 

!H)2 Sachindrakumar Das, Second. 

905 Rahindrakiimar Deh, Third. 

908 Syed Nurun Nabi, Third. 

909 Bireswar Chakralmrti, Second. 

!)1 1 Sucihirchandra Biswas, Second. 

913 Baidyanath Saha, Second. 

916) Raghunath Ghosh, Third. 

919 Kanailal Bhattacharyya, Third. 

923 Adhirranjan Ohamlhuri, Third. 

924 Taixidhan Bhattacharyya, Third. 

925 Subrata Sen, Third. 

!)29 Sanatan Chat topadh.vay, Third. 

932 Manoranjan Chakrabarti, Second. 

935 Asimkumar Gupta, Second. 

938 Ajitkuiu.ii De, Third. 

939 Arunkumar Chakrabarti, Third. 

943 Sara I chandra Chat topadhyay , Third. 

915 Nitai Basak. Third. 

!* 4t> Prahhasc-handra Miikhopadhyay, Third. 
948 Dhirajkanti Pal, Third. 

! ) 1!) Ramcndranat li Chandhuri, Second. 

951 Mircndi anarayan Bay, Kirst. 

953 Bupcndrnkrislma Ray, Second. 

!)51 Bnnalkuinar Majiundar, Third. 

957 Dayalkrishna Haidar, Second. 

°59 Amalkrishna Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

961 Sankar Pal, Third. 

962 Amp Bandx opadhyay , Third. 

5)6.3 Pradoslikinnar Das, Third. 

!)64 .Tugalkisor Parva, Third. 

968 Arupkurnar Basil, Third. 

969 Dilipkmnar Nandan, Second. 

!)80 V nil ha ran Saha, Third. 

5)81 Brihaspati Manna. Second. 

982 Rabindranath Mandal. Third. 

983 Dilipkmnar Chat topadhyay, Second. 

985 Vlokkmnar M ukhnpadhyny, Third. 

98t; Ramkrishna Nandi, Second. 

990 Narayanchandra De, Second. 

995 Dipakkanti Biswas, Third. 

!)96 Ganeschandra D'atta, Second. 

1000 Nilurnnian Chat topadhyay . Second. 

1001 Tapankumur Rautli, Second. 

1002 Asutosh Das. Second. 

1007 Gopalcha ndra Mukliopadhyay, Second. 

1008 Dehkumar Chakrabarti, Third. 

1012 Brajagopul C'hakraharti, Third. 

1013 Mrinalkanti Basu, Third. 

1016 \riinkmmir Ghatak, Third. 

1017 .laharlal Ray, Third. 

1019 Sitalprasad Chakrabarti, Third, 

1026 Uinaykumar Guha, Third. 

1028 Suhodh Basu, Third. 

1037 Dulalchandra Miikhopadhyay, Third. 

10 41 \rupkanti Das, Third. 

1043 Sujankmnar Dasgupta, Third. 

1046 Praimithariinjan Ray, Third. 

1053 Suhhendu Haidar, Third. 

4055 Atis Miikhopadhyay, First. 

1057 Gaurmohan Naskar, Third. 

1077 Manahendranath Ray, Third. 

1078 Dilipkumar Poddar, Third, 

1080 Braj agonal Saha, Second. 

1085 Swapankumar Raychaudhuri, Third. 

1087 Bodhiswatta Basu, Second. 

1097 Anupada Datta, Third. 

11(X) ShamsuKzaman, First. 

1101 Nanigopal Adhiknri, Third. 

1107 Tusharkanti Sinha, Second. 

1116 Nirmalendu Datta, Tliird. 

1117 Banamali Bandyopadhyay, Third. 


THE CATATCTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


143 




No., name and division. 

NM-Oollcglate External Students. 
ROLL CAL. EXT. 


n Achmtyakumar Pramanik. Second, 
ou Slanabcndranaih Adit.va, Third. 

^ukhendunath Datta, Third. 

^ Kimalendu Sengupta, Third. 

Saniirkumar Sanyal, Third. 
ms Sibnpwla Thakur, Third. 

, ■ < \hmojkumar Sarkar, Third. 

V» Sukesrhimdni Bhattacharvya, Second. 

IV) Dilipkumar Datta. Third. 
h; \ \irmalkanti Basil, Third. 

K,(; Asiifcosh M ukhopadhyay, Second. 

sMinlkupiar Bhattacharyya, Third, 
if.i rinl taranjan Ghosh, Third. 

I7S Mndul Band lopadh.vay , Second. 

,71, | Iharanidhnr Basil, Second. 

1 sil»ji prasad Basil, Second. 

\<\ Madankumar Ghosh, Second. 

I si, Bmialkanti Basu, Third. 

, S (, Prasantakuimir Chattopadhyay, Second. 
I \y 2 Rumdulal Mukhopadhyay , Second. 

Pasupati Bhattacharyya, Third. 
liKi Khugemlrachamlra Sarkar, Third. 

>IK) Madnnniohnn Mukhopadhyay. Third. 
oik) kisorimohan Mandal, Second. 

’>|(i Syed Si raj ill Haque, Third. 

J>li) Sam.iremlranath Sanyal, Third. 

">•>() Sudhirkuniar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

, | at Indiana th Bhattacharyya, Third. 

007 Hhnhcschandra Raychaudhuri, Second. 

Balm Bhattacharyya. Third, 
o’cj Ainitabha Chattopadhyay, Second. 

2,17 Bishnnpuda Das, Third. 

‘J.P Kartikchandra Brahma, Third. 

5„ L*i iinahkrishna Chakrabarti, Second. 
iMJ Haraprasad Chattopadhyay, Third. 

‘Jts Rahisw.ir Bandyopadhyay , Second. 

12', I \1narend1anaU1 Basil, Second. 

12 V) sudliHiiMikumar Da il l a, Second. 

I2V> Dilipkumar Saha, Thud. 

2M> R an 1 a n Nag, Third. 

'1 Mpui acharau Bandyopadhyay, Thud. 
I:»#i ; Saclichfda nanda Sd, Third. 


Iiw, 

l-jf/i 
1271 
127 1 
1270 


l‘2M 

12"m 

12*7 
12^ 
12! >2 
1 12!i:> 


u\ 

■t»7> 
<H) 
.1)7 
if is 
Us 
ii!> 
121) 
V>» 
V2!> 
W2 
LV| 
kia 
<f>> 

170 

472 

■m 

471 
47 *> 
:1k2 
1 : wr* 
lllhS 

iani 

IliOfc 

I.WI 

1407 

UOK 

Unn 

BU 

B12 

41 " 

1421 

422 

424 

1425 


dal nidi anat h Malakar, Thud. 

Mohammed Yoiinus, Third, 
rsharanjan Bay, Third. 

R 1 rend nil a I Chakrabarti, Second. 

Kastidch Chat topadhyay, Third, 
hurgasankar Ghosh, Third. 

I’am hanan Modak, Third. 

Rasiidch (Chakrabarti, Second. 
Pankajkiimar Chakrabarti, Third. 
Ri'-wamith Sen, Third. 

\ sit ha ran Chat topadhyay. Third. 
Ruthindruchandra Ghoshal, Second, 
•hicndranuth Barman, Third. 

Bimalendii Sarkar, Third. 

Maxataru Mnhinta, Third. 

Sankarprasad Chakrabarti, Third. 
(Jopalchandra De, Third. 
Ihapliiilhichundra Baykarmakar, Second. 
Riimchandra Bej, Third, 
liucudarchandru Saha, Thud. 
Siidhirkiimar Ghosh, Third. 

Yn nmlkiimar Pal, Third. 

Kamalkiishna Kardar, Second, 
t Bin id as Ghosh, Third. 

Nimiran Datta, Third. 

Bngankakumar Saha, Second. 
I'hsnibhushan Banin. Third. 
Sauremlrannt-h Ray, Third, 
hasmohan Dehnath, Third. 

Siimitkumar Mandal, Third. 

N’mmiehand Ghosh, Third. 

Bopalchandra Bhaumik, Second. 
Ainalkumar Ghosh, Second. 
ArrMhendusekhar Ray, Second. 
IVaneschandra Hay, Third, 
nrdiarkanti Basu, Third. 

Anangamohtin Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

• apaskiiniar Raychauuhiiri, Second. 

I Mushkanti Majumdar, Third. 
Aninkuinar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
Atindranath Sarkar, Third. 

Mmaiehandra Goswami, Second, 
buhhendiik umar Pal, Third, 
ml taranjan Majumdar, Third. 

•‘k uuarchandra Sar, Second. 
ft?. 1 * Sarkar, Third. 

hittaranjan Bhattacharyya, Third. 
Rebahrata Guha, First. 

^alku mar Datta, Second. 

; u Jdkumar Deray, Third, 
^nondrachandra R*y. Second. 
aI a> ; kl,mar Datta, Third. 

’'nkumar Chakrabarti. Third. 


No., name and division. 

Non-Collegiate External Students. 

ROLL CAL. EXT. 

1 I.H 11 Piuldintkumar Nandi, Third. 

1401 Surrsoliaiidi a Dehnath, Third. 

1432 Mrityunjay Burgi, Third. 

1 433 Dipakkiimar Dasguptn, Third 
1431 Madniimohan Pntrn, Third. 

M37 Amlhiii ,111 Chanda, Second. 

MRP Mihirlmran Rax. Secoml. 

Mil Narayanchmulra Mandal. Third. 

I I id Giiurangachaiidra Majiiiiiriar, Third. 

1 1 1 "> Ratneswar Das, Third. 

I 1 lev Brajemlrakisor Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

MI7 Satyabra ta Basu, Second. 

! I l!i Imliihhiisiiaii Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

1 I Vi IMiulcmluhlmshan Bhaumik, Third. 

I Mi I P.isiipatinatli Bhattacharyya, Third. 

1 I(i3 Arahmda Haidar, Second. 

1 400 Susilkumar De, Third. 

1 107 Nilmanilnl Guin, Third. 

I 108 I’ranahkiunnr Majumdar, Third. 

1 473 Bijendraehandra Pal, Third. 

1 477> Tnritkiunar Mnitra, Third. 

1478 Asiinratan Gangonadhyay, Third. 

1 481 Gaurisankar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

1488 Ajitendranat h Kanjilal, Third. 

I 190 Asunchamlni Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

1492 Suhhu.slicliandra Basu, Third. 

1493 Gakulehandra Poddar, Second. 

I49"> Manojitkumai Kundu, Third. 

1 498 Brajadulal Haidar, Third. 

1 .V)‘J Dehidas Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

1 ">()."> Itanjit kumar Ata, Third. 

lot Hi Sudhansiisekhar Bandyonadhyay, Third. 

IA07 Kanjankumar (iangopadhyay , Second. 

1. r >1 1 .logsadhan Pal, Third. 

lol2 Ranisj itkrislina Mukhopadhyay (Ca), FirBt. 

I ol l Siidhirknmar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

1 o‘2o Bochuram l)as. Third. 

IA2(i Madhabchandra Saha poddar. Second. 

1.V27 Dipakkiimar Pal, Third. 

I-V29 Sukhendii Gangopadhyay, Third. 
loRO Sitansiikiimar Das, S*M*ond. 

1 oA.'l Niharkanti Ghosh, Third. 

I H I la rend rami t h Ghosh, Third. 

17* Mi Loknath Majumdar, Third, 
loot) Kuprnkas Ray, Third. 

|.V>2 Murarimolian Pal, Third. 

I Vi;l Adhirranjan Mukhopadhyay. Thirvl. 
loV> Harihilas Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

1 AVi Guruprasad Sinharay, Third. 

1 008 NaiiihhiisluiTi Chakrabarti, Third. 
lo.">9 Abdul Majid. Second. 

l.Vil Sukanti Ghosh, Third. 

] o(5A Kshetranath Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

1 o(vl A mares Chat topadhyay, Third. 
lVi*) Hakhalehandra Bhaumik, Third. 

I At H i Jyotirma.v Mukhopadhyay, Third, 
lot i9 Gaurisankar Majumdar, Second. 

1A7I Prana hk 11 mar Sanyal, Third. 

1 ‘>77 Parhat ipada Chakrabarti, Third. 

1 088 Prabirranjan Basil, Third. 
lo92 Satyaranjati Ray, Second. 

1-V»7 Dhirendranath Sarkar, vSecond. 

IA98 Dihvendii Chakrabarti, Third. 

1 < it I7» Santirarijan Sarhajna, Second. 

I < >07 Sunilknmar Ghosh, Third. 

Ri()8 Sukharanpiu Pal (f’a). First. 

KilO Sanatkumar Biswas, Third. 

Hill Madanmohan ("hattopadhyay, Second 
1014 Sat.yaranjan Chattopadhyay , Third. 

Bill) Pranahkuinar Ray, Third. 

1017 Nanda na ray an Sur, Second. 

1019 Sainhhiinnth Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

1024 Satvakam Ray. Second. 

1020 Suramilh Lahiri, Third. 

1027 Radhagobinda Das, Second. 

1028 Bholanath Mukhopadhyay, Third 
10.* lo Niharendii Datta, Second. 

1040 Mukulranjan Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

1040 Dipakkiimar Sinlia, Second. 

1018 Mrmalkanti Basu, Secoml. 

107)0 Amarkmnar Pal, Third. 

107»9 ( f hittaranjan Rav, Third. 

1001 .latanchandra Chattopadhyay formerly .Tatanchandra 
Simlai, Third. 

B»(j4 Anilkumar Mullik, Third. 

1005 Sudhansukuniar Ray, Third. 

10(W> BiniHlkrishna Sainaddar, Third. 

1009 Samarendranath Ray, Third. 

1071 Rabindranath Mitra, Third. 

1072 Biswanath Saha, Third. 

107*1 Sitalchandra Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

1075 Sunitkumar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

1670 Sunilendu Bhattacharyya, Second. 

1679 Santoshkumar Chakrabarti, Second. 

1090 Mahaprabhu Ray, Third. 

1695 Samirkumar Chakrabarti, Third. 



14 4 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


[Part \\ 


1697 

1699 

1704 

1710 

1711 

1715 

1716 
1727 
1731 

1735 

1736 
1746 
1749 
1757 
175R 
1759 
1761 
1765 
1768 
1778 
1781 
1787 
1791 
1795 
1808 

1809 

1810 
1816 
1817 
1819 
1827 
1833 
1&34 
1844 

1847 

1848 

1852 

1853 
1857 
1862 

1874 

1875 

1876 
1882 
1886 
1888 
1891 
1895 

1897 

1898 

1899 

1901 

1902 

1903 
1908 
1912 

1924 

1925 
1929 

1949 

1950 

1951 

1957 

1958 

1960 

1961 
1974 
1979 
1982 
1984 
1986 

1989 

1990 

1993 

1994 
1999 

2005 

2006 
2008 

2014 

2015 

2019 

2020 
2021 
2022 

2023 

2024 

2032 

2033 
2038 

2042 

2043 
2045 

2051 

2052 


No., name and division. 

Non-Colleglate External Students. 
ROLL CAL. EXT. 

Debprasad Sardar, Second. 

Biswanath Chakraharti, Third. 
Karojkumar Basil, Third. 

Nirmalkumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

A mar Raychaudhuri, Third. 

Gadadhar Daha, Third. 

Asitkumar Biswas, Third. 

Sanwarmal Singliania, Second. 

Asutosh Acharyya, Third. 

Sasadhar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
Saibalkanti Chaki, Third. 

Adwaituchandra Das,^ Third. 

Mrinalkanii Ray, Third. 

Gohindachamlra Haidar, Second . 
Radhaballabli Ghosh, Third. 

Nanigopal Detalukdar, Third. 
Sudhansuhimal Sarkar, Third. 
Biiiaybhiishaii Chakraharti, Second. 
Santinath Mitra. Second. 

Dilipkumar Chuttopadbyay, Third. 
Nirmalkanti Dechaudhuri, Second. 
Sukliamav Chakraharti, Third.^ 
Girijahhiishan Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
Sant-iranjan Mahinta, Second. 
Bimalkrishna Poddar, Third. 
Nirinalchandra Das. Third. 

Syamadas Lahiri, Third. 

Gopinath Saha, Second. 

Harieharan Nath Third. 

Sunilkutnar Biswas, Third. 

Bhabaniprasad Bhattacharyva, Third. 
Anmlyanarayan Ray, Second. 

Nanigopal Chakraharti, Second. 
Tapankumar Basil, Third. 

Bibhaschandra Sarkar, Third. 

Bhabadeb Pal, Second. 

Madanmolian Raykarmakar, Second. 
Dilipkumar Bandyopadhyay, Second. 
Bhupendranath Bnndyopadhvay . Second. 
Pramodhandliu Bhnt tacharyya , Third. 
Dulalehandra Das, Third. 

Sudhirkunmr Das, Third. 

Krishnndhar Bhadra, Second. 

Sacliigopal Modak. Third. 

Diptikumar Ghosh, First. 

S.vod Abdul Mofiz, Second. 

Dilipkumar Chakraharti, Third. 
Asokanandu Hajrn, Third. 

Tarapada Das, Third. 

Haridas Ghosh, Third. 

Bimalkumar M and nl. Second. 

Sumamath Ray, Third, 

Amiyahhushan Chakraharti, Third. 
Mukulranjan Ragchi, Second. 
Satyaranjan Do, Third. 

Dilipranjan Ohattopadhvav, Second. 
Rabindranath Mandal, Third. 
Manaskumar Chakraharti, Third. 
Nirondranath Guha, Third. 
Supriyachandra Das, Second. 

Sujit Dn( tagupta, Second. 

Kalipada Pnnjal, Third. 

Ranendranath Bhnr, Second. 

Rajkuniar Datta. Second. 

Bires Raychaudhuri, Third 
Lilamny Sanyal, Third. 

Kristi nagobindn Chaiidhuri, Third 
Syamapada Kar, Third. 

Sachmdranath Cliati opudhyay. Third 
Ganesprasad Brahmachari, Third. 
Samirankumar ("hat topadhyay, Second. 
Nrisinhaprasad Pramanik, Third. 
Asitwanjan Dehnath, Third. 

Sitalprasad Sengupta, Third. 
Ranaiitkumar Datta, Third. 

Sunilkumar Ghosh, Third. 

Suresehandra Saha, Second. 
Praphullaranjan Sen, Third. 

Gopinath Chattopadhyay, Third. 
Hnrigopnl Ray, Third. 

Sasadhar Chattopadhyay, Third. 
Barunkumar Bhattaeharyya, Third. 

IT m ana th Ray, Third. 

Janakiprasad Sen, Second. 

Asimkumar Bandyopadhvay, Third. 
Taraehaml Murinu, Third. 

Sunitkumar Ghosh, Third. 

Balaichandra Chaudhuri, Second. 
Tapaskumar Acharyya, Third. 
Dhirnjkumar Datta, Third. 
Chanchalkumar Basu, Second. 
Syamalehandra Ghoshdastidar, Third. 
Himansukumar Ray, Second. 
Sudhansuranjan Ghosh, Thiid. 
Kisorimnjaii Das, Third. 


No., name and division. 

Non-Cotlegiate External Students. 
ROLL CAL. EXT. 

2054 Mihirkumar Bandyopadhyay , Second. 

2059 Tarapada Chakraharti, Second. 

2060 Kalaehand Sanyal, Third. 

2068 Salilendu Bhattaeharyya, Third. 

2071 Somnath Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

2072 Sanjibgopul Guhathakurta, Second. 

2075 Prantoshkumar Chaudhuri, Third. 

2070 Pa riuialkiiniar Gaiigopadliyay , Third. 
2077 .Tavdch Biswas, Third. 

2085 Asokkumar Majumdar, Third. 

2087 Nikhilranjan Bhaumik, Second. 

2088 Haradhiin Chattopadhyay, Third. 

2089 Malayranjan Gangopadhyav, Thiid 

2096 Kamalkanta Bandyopadhyay. Third. 

2097 Saktipada Bhattaeharyya. Third. 

2100 Prahirkumar Mnpnndar, Third. 

2102 Ramaprasad Guha, Third. 

2106 R.ohinikanta Chakraharti, Second. 

2109 Sisirkumar Ray, Third. 

2111 Nirmalkumar Do, Third. 

2112 Dulalranjan Bhattnehniyya, Third. 

2114 Dilipkumar Do, Third. 

2117 A ban is Chaki. Third. 

2118 Kanailal Bandyopadhyay . Second. 

2122 Ramendranarayati Das, Second. 

2128 Niranjan Mukhopadhva\ . Third. 

2129 Tuhmkumar Basil, Third. 

2130 Satindranath Bhattaeharyya, Thud. 
2134 Nanigopal Chaki a ha Hi, Third. 

2136 Tapesehandra Basu, Third. 

2137 Ramosehandra Mitra, Second. 

2138 Nilmadhah Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

2143 CThaitanvakumar Biswas, Third. 

2145 Satindranath Sikdar, Third. 

2149 Rabindranath Chaudhuri, Third. 

2150 Baidyannth Sinha, Third. 

2154 Niradranjan Bhadra. Third. 

2159 Bfttuklal Dedliin, Third. 

2164 Rabindranath Chakra Wt i , Second 
2168 Ramchandra Pal, Thud. 

2171 Sankarkumar Kundu. Third. 

2187 Sisirranian Mukhopadh.va\ . Thud. 

2189 Dttain Das, Second. 

2193 Gurudas Chattopadhyay, Thiid. 

2194 Somendraniohan Chakrahnri i . Second. 
2206 Sekharnath Raychaudhuri, Thinl. 

2210 Dilipkumar Nairn, Third. 

2214 .Tibankrislina Chaudhuri, Third. 

2216 Subimalchandra Guha, Third. 

2220 Arunkumar Chakraharti, Tliird. 

2222 Rirendranath Putntimda. Thiid. 

2224 Saktiranjan Som, Third. 

2227 Prasantaknmnr Scngu]>ta. Second 

2228 Prabhatkumor Mitra. Third. 

2230 Dhirendrakumar Dehnath, Third. 

2231 Harendranath Kundu, Third ^ 

2232 Ajitkumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

2235 Chittaranjan Samaddar, Third. 

2239 Kalidas Bandyopadhvay, Third 

2251 Pranahrntan Ghoshalchaudhuri, Thud. 

2252 Amarendrakumar Chaudhuri, Second 

2253 Man ora nj an Sikdar, Third. 

2258 Arup Mukhopadhyay, Second 

2259 Md. Abdul Burek Molla. Third. 

2263 Baidyanath Sengupta, Third. 

2264 Amivakiimar Bandyopadhyay, Third 
2267 Asokkumar Bhattachary va . Third 
2275 Asitranjan Chattopadhyay, Third. 

2281 Sailendrakumar Chaudhuri. ThuM. 

2287 Kshetramohan Gangopadhyav, Third. 

2294 Talav A lam. Third 

2295 Sk. Noor Ahmed, Third. 

2301 Shashthirharan Mitra, Second. 

2311 Nilendrakumar Bandyopadhyay, Thinl. 
2318 Lakshmikanta Ghoshal. Third. 

2325 Basudeb De, Second. 

2326 Bhntnath Mukhopadh\ av, Second. 

2331 Asishkrishnn Basil, Second. 

2332 Arupkumar Majumdar, Third. 

2337 Sukuinar Basu, Third. 

2339 Rasnmay Gangopadhyny, Third. 

2341 Menhaj Uddin Laskar, Third. 

2342 Ajitkumar Rrngupta, Third. 

23411 Nimai Sarkar, Third. 

2350 Jagatjyoti Kar, Third. 

2351 Ohittaranjan, Ray, Third. 

2352 Sasankasekhar Kar, Third. 

2354 Bhaktipada Mandal, Third. 

2360 Sujitkumar Mitra, Third. 

2366 Pankajkumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

2367 Sudhansukumar Sarkar, Third. 

2369 Arindr&jit Palchaudhuri, Third. 

2372 Biswanath Palchaudhuri, Second. 

2377 Raghunath Jana, Second. 

2378 Sy&mabrata Ray, Third. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1692 


145 


i v nr nil 


•mho 

•US? 

•0<4l 

•MS.^ 

•UH7 

jtfil 

”;iih 

jirs 

2JD! 

„*!(*< 

'jus 

•JI.VJ 

•JUI 

:MU! 

jus 

•jtv 

ji;o 

•jin 

•ji^ 

•JIN 

L-1SS 

f Ji f r{ 
i-jl't'i 

jvil 

J*i! I 


JVl'i 

J(iMl 


i ;u, 
>10 
*.1 
.VI 
V» 
w 

!»•{ 

<;'/ 

74 

7* 

'HI 

HI 

l>4 

II', 

111 

Jl| 

•)■* 

2*1 

il 

’III 

>J 

7 17 


!7te 

!S):} 

»r« 

^lf) 

*12 

*17 


No., name and division. 

Non-Collegia te External Students. 
ROLL CAL. EXT. 

1 1 n rad ha n Bandvopadhvuy, Third. 
Kiimalprauad Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
Aiitkumar Tapadar, Third. 

Piirhalinath Chandra^ Second. 
Hahindraneth Pal, Third. 

Haniitkumer Sarkar, Third. 

Keshan Lai, Third, 
f’ulmbihari Pradhan. Third. 

Maheswar Bhattacharyya, Third. 
Kakhalohandra Chakrabarti, Third. 
Sanknr Chakrabarti, Third. 

Aiitkumar Rana, Third. 

Nirendranath Mitra. Third. 

Uudhabdas Baau, Third. 

Piamihkumar Bhnttaeharvya, Second. 
Aiitkumar Basil, Third. 

Ammi’sh Basu, Third, 
smlhindrakumar Das, Third. 

Ilirajmohan Bandy opadhy ay, Third. 
Sudhirkumar Saha, Third. 

M.-ikhanlal Chakrabarti, Third. 

\<dshdhati Biswas, Second, 
flholnnath Ghosh, Second. 

S.uiatkuiiiar Bhattacharyya, Third. 
Sukumar Niyogi, Third. 

Kshitischandra Das, Second. 

Tapaskumar Chattopadhyay, Second, 
sibemlrakumar Sen, Third. 

V mna Ichandra Haidar, Thiid. 

\mbarish Baba, Second. 

Bilipkunia»- Chakrabarti, Second. 
Vmulkiimar Bhattuchar y\ a, Third. 

Pi asaiitakuinar Sur. Third. 

K ii pend nuia ra> an Chattopadhyay . Third, 
Siintiraniau Pal, Third. 

Sautinafh Cliaudhuri. Third, 
saniaremlranatli Bhattaeharyya, Third. 
S.niendrahijay Bay, Third. 

Haiurikumar Burnt, Third. 

Minin' end rana tb Chattopadhyay, Second 
M.miklaJ Kusari, Third. 

M. uionitijnu Bay, Third. 

I{.imendnmath Das, Third. 

\iunkumar Chakrabarti, 'I’hird. 
Tarakmitli Datta, Third. 

Muianmohan Mamin I, Third. 

•smiilehaiidra Das, I’hird. 

Hariinkumar Chat topadhyay , Third. 
IliiatiNakumar Das. Third. 

Ihiaysankar Dnsgtipin. Third. 

3n\del» l*al, Third. 

Nmlosbkuinar Scngupta, Third. 

Miswajit Bandyopadhya> , Second. 
Durgachurnn Ghosh, Third. 

Himpada Bhattaeharyya, First. 
Miimihendrananiyan Bhaduri, Third. 
Vsokkmmir De, Third. 

•l.iumtakiimar Gupta. Third. 

Nuadlmran Dus, Third. 

Bimanknshmi Chat.topadh> ay. First. 
Dtfipkumar Chattopadhyay, I’hird. 
Submllikuinar Pain. Third. 

Bmavkrishna Gangopadhyav, Third. 

N. iziruddin [I ossa in, Second. 

Sihnatli Ghosh, Third. 

Maliitosh Ghosh, Third. 

Jhlipkiimnr Blianja. Second. 

*h.id\ of kutna r Chandra, Second. 
Nihalehandra Santra, Third. 

• hnabandhu Chattopadhyay, Third. 
s nt' anarayan Mukhopa<lh.vay. Third. 
Kmiialkrishiin Biswas. Third, 
^maprasanna Scngupta. Third, 
jiiui nngnchaiidni Das. Third, 
^'idhuvhamlra Basu, Third, 
daiiieiulrachandrn Das. Third. 
Aamiueschamlrn Bhattaeharvva, Second. 
"".Mkumar Datta, Third. 

! »nabkumar Basu, I’hird. 

1 .uaiiehamlra Ghosh, Third, 
t ,’ as Samajdar, Second. 

,tk '»mnr De, Third, 
jueswiir Majumdar, Third. 

' *-‘Mintakumar Chattopadhvav, Third. 
^ f "l'handr a Pal, Third. ' 

"•'Muanath Datta, Third. 

■Ntikuinar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

. 1,r kumar Mukhopadhyav. Third. 
*" r U(>liaran Adhikari. Second, 
ii minsujyoti Datta, Third. 

P.t ’ >rw, . n P 1Tl Bhattaeharyya, Third. 
pZ:& Um » r J?».^haudhuri, Third. 


M^ bk ^ mar Second. 
Maul U l uda ? Third, 

’nkchandra Sadbukhan, Third. 


No., name and division. 

Non-Colleglete External Students. 
ROLL CAL. EXT. 

2820 Hhimacharan Maiti, Third. 

2821 A mill Chakrabarti, Third. 

2820 Prabirkunmr Chakrabarti, Second. 

284144 Sukhendukumar Gangopadhyay, Third. 
2836 Biswauath Ghosh, Third. 

28448 Asokkiimar Majumdar, Second. 

28-441 Kalisada.v Kongiipta. 'third. 

284 l Dilipkumar Samajdar, Third. 

2847 Sulxxlhknmar Mitra, Second. 

2852 Debabrata Basu, Third. 

2858 Nirmalkumar Datta, Third. 

28(541 Parinuilchnmlra Kundu, Third. 

2864 Manotosh Mitra, Third. 

2H7(t Biswauath Bumlyopadhyay, Third. 

2874 Amhujaksha Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

2884 Kaujitkiimar Mandal, Third. 

*4eHd Harcudranuth Daeguptn, Third. 

2889 Klmgcndrauath M 11 kli opadhy ay. Third. 
2895 .fyolsnamav Chattopadhyay, Tnird. 

2905 Pradyi/tkumar Cuba, Third. 

2910 Kauai Raychaiidhuri. Third. 

2915 Biswauath Sarkar, Third. 

2910 Pulakkumar Mitra, Third. 

2925 Batuknath Bhattacharyya, Third. 

2917 IVanabkumar Mukhopmlhyay, Third. 
24)50 KhugendranaUi Mukhopadhyav, Third. 
2951 Nmualcndu Bandyopndnyay, Second. 
2956 (ouirmohau Glmsh, Third. 

29(52 Kalyankumar Bandyopmlhyay, First. 
2965 Blianuchnrnn dana. 'third. 

2965 Asad Ullah Khan, Third. 

29(57 Pratajikumar Ghosh, Second. 

29(58 Amaranth Chaudhuri, Third. 

29741 l*i mioshraiijan Chakrabarti, Third. 

2991 Adliirknmar Mukhopadhyny, Second. 

2991 Naranarayim Dattachaudhuri, Third. 
2997 Svamaprasiid Bandyopadh.vav, Third. 
<1005 Md. Aim Bakar, Third. 

5009 Mohammed Irshad Ali, Second. 

41018 Kapil prasad Singh, Second. 

.1019 Ajitkuumr Bhattaeharyya, Third. 

410244 Bradipkumar Mitra, Third. 

41021 Sy a in a lk anti Sarkar, Third. 

'10*10 Asokkiimar Nag, Third. 

410416 Tridipcliamlra Bandvopadliyny, Third. 
410141 Itamoada Ghosh, Third. 

41051 Swadesranjan Ghosh, Third. 

41078 Sudhirkumar Band.vopadhya.v, Second. 
4WK)2 tndrajit Sinhara.v, Second. 

5105 Siidhirr»njai) Pal, Third. 

41105 Dilipkumar Chakrabarti, First. 

5117 Sailcndranat.b Nnskar, Second. 

5119 Sachindralal Dattahanik, Third. 

■1120 Dcbidas Blmttachoryya, Third. 

5121 Samirkiimar Sen, Second. 

41122 Taraknath Smharay, Tliird. 

•4125 Saradinduhikas Bay, Third. 

45127 Manindranatli Bumlyopadhyay, Third. 
5128 (hthindannrayan C^hattopadhyay, Third. 
4H29 Kaltpada (’hakrabarti, Second. 

<4140 Asimkumar Do. Third- 
<41.12 JitendriHiath Pakira, Second. 

51415 Sailendrahltushan Majumdar, Third. 

31416 Mantukumar Hait, Third. 

31.48 Siisilkuniur Blivchnudhiiri, Third. 

51.49 Tapodhir Dob, Third 

44140 Anukulchnndrn Haidar, Third. 

314.4 Bajendranihtli Pal, Third. 

3147 Manoranjan Datta, Third. 

3149 ,Tai Govind Agrawal, Third. 

3151 Kasinath Saha, 'third. 

31 55 llannarayan Ghosh, Third. 

3157 Pra>( iilchandra Chakrabarti, 'third. 

3158 Mnmkhil Chakrabarti, 1’hird. 

44160 Anilkumar Ba.y, Second 

3170 Lakshminiolmn Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
3174 Nikhilranjan Pal, Third 

41175 Sarojktituar Bhattwharyya. Second. 

41176 Bansarilal Nath, Third. 

3177 Ban jit Ray. Third. 

411 79 Subrata Chakrabarti. Third. 

41184 Ratanlal Niyogi, Third. 

41194 Brajondralnl Chattopadhyay, Third. 

.4196 Ghazi Md. Gholnm Noor. Third. 

■420 1 Bimalkiimnr Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

3208 Suprahhat Siddhanta, Third. 

.4213 Kausikiprasad Mukhopadhyay, Second. 
3214 Abhaykumar Sarkar, Third. 

3221 Kanailal Kundu, Second. 

44225 Kupendrakumar Kundu. Second. 

3226 Nabakumar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

3227 Padmanath Bhattacharyya. Third. 

3230 'J’a-rapada Bhaumik. Second. 

3231 Anilkumar Raba, Third. 

32412 Matindranath Bhattacharyya, Third. 

32443 Kalimohan Saha, Second. 


J4ti 


THE CALCUTTA 0 AZETTK, MARCH 29, 1962 


L Part ] 


No., name and division. 

Non-Collegiate External 8tudente. 
ROLL CAL. EXT. 

M2M7 Kai vanK iiniiir Sarhadhikari, Second. 

M2MK Kshirodlal Bluittacharyya, Third. 

M2M9 1 1 ai akali Das, Third. 

M2 12 Pranahkumur Das, Third. 

M211 i)a.M*ldas Bandvopadhyay , Second. 

M2 I A Kamupuda Chakraharti, Third. 

M2 If) Amlrliiindra Cliaiidliuri. I bird. 

M249 llaradhan Do, Second. 

M251 Mam/jit Biswas. Second. 

M2 At) Kunpllunmii K'udniv Third. 

M20I Siiniii'kumiir Baudyopadhyay, Third. 

M20M Mandal Das, Third. 

M270 Sagnrchand Das, Third. 

M277 .IriaTiananda Bhwtt-achary.va, Second. 

M2KO Lnlmohari ( Miakraharti. Second. 

M2HM Bholanath Saha, Third. 

M2HA Saihmdrakumar Dalta. Third. 

M2S0 SiHitmia.v Mitra, Third. 

M2SS Djpak Chakraharti, Second. 

M291 Anilkumar Bar, Third. 

M297 Anilkumar Majuindar, Third. 

M290 Bankuuchandra Chattopadhyay, Tlnrd. 
MMOM lliinhiii (’hattopadhyay, Third. 

MMOA Anilkumar Kay, Second. 

MMOS Kcsahninjan Pal, Third. 

MM1 I Lakshminanixan Bandvopadhyay . SetHind. 
MM12 Kalidas Bliatlacharvya, Third. 

MMI7 Kahindrunath Ghosh, Second. 

MMIS Anilkumar Mauhk, Second. 

MM20 .1 agn th:t ndhu Salia, Third. 

MM22 Nirmalkuniiir Biswas. Third. 

MM21 Dipakkiimar M uk liopadhjy ay , Third. 

MM27 Sur:i|iMvinna r Dc, Third. 

MMM1 Bunalkuimir Kay, Third. 

MMMO Liikshmiknnta Das, Third. 

MMM7 Kanjiikumar Kakslnl, 'I’hird. 

.TIMS Suhrischandni Oluvikopadhyay, Second. 

MM 1 1 Anilkumar Sen, 'I'lurd. 

MM1M Punclnigopal Ghosh, Sec< mil 

MM 1 I Delnprasiid Chattopadhyay, Third. 

MM 17 I’rnhhnt.Uumur Sarkar, Third. 

MMIS Niliatan Ghosh. Third. 

MMAO Suhir M ukliop;wlh\ a v, Thinl. 

MMAM Himansusekhai Tliakur. Thud 
MM.V> A hiimkanl.ii Nandi. Third. 

MMAO Kagliumith Prasad Chawrasta, Third. 
M.*1A7 Nikhilchiimli a Gangnpadhy»\v, Third. 

M.’lAs Sainii kumar M ukhopadh vny, Thud. 

MMAO Siumikunnir Basil, Third. 

MMfJI Sal vaianpin Das, Second. 

MM(>(> BiulalcluMidra Kuiidu. Second. 

MM72 Kama, prasad Sinha, Second. 

MM7M Pyarimohan Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

.‘IM7 1 Syiimalkumar Sarkar. Second. 

MM7A Siimn kumar Siwkar, Third. 

MM7S IVahha tchnndra Basil. 'I lord. 

MM79 I lira hi I Sil, Third. 

MMSU Amarninjan Sum, Third. 

MMS2 Bhahcschnndi a Datta. Second 
MMS I SnhhcndranaTh Ghosh, Third. 

MMSA Bisuanalh Chat topndlu av, Third. 

MMOI Barindralmndhu Ohcfsh, Third 
■ MOM Malavkumar Sengupta, Second. 

MMOI .Miiuikprasad Ghosh, Third. 

MMOA Tritnarayivn Basil, Third. 

MMOO Smarajitkumar Bay, Third. 

M 100 Sanliranjan Datta, Second. 

M If 12 Suhrata Bhattacharvya, Second. 

MIOI Dulalluvnti Bandvopadhyay, Third. 

Ml 12 Nupur Sen, Second. 

Mill A nut kumar Mukhopadhyay, Third 
Ml hi Samirendrnkisor Kliv, Third. 

MI2S Bijavknshna Mandal, Third. 

M-IM7 Prasantak iimar Pnt.riv, Second. 

Mild Kami i Ini Basil, 'Hurd. 

M14S Mnnabendu Biswas, Third. 

MtAit Gobindnchandra Ralia, Third. 

M 1M2 Hi valid Chattopndhyav, Third. 

M I AM Kan jitkuniar Chawlhuri, Tliird. 

' 1AA Bimalendu Dasgupta, Third. 

Midi Kamriulal Mitra, Third. 

M172 Hnnpada Sarkhcl. Third. 

3475 Adhirkumnr Ghosh. Third. 

M 179 Santiranian S:*rkhel. Third. 

.4100 Atulehamlra Acharvvn. Third. 

3193 Bimalendrakrishna fWha, Third. 

MAO 1 Sudhisehandra Ghosh, Third. 

.‘loOG Nilratan Basil. Third. 

.‘4507 Jatindranwth Kay, Third. 

MAIM Arunkanti Dasgupta. Second. 

MAI 7 Sisirranjan Gupta, Third. 

3524 .Tibankrislina Majumdar, Third. 

3525 Kamalahrasanna Mukhopadhyay, Second. 
3527 Himansubhushan Ray, Third. 

3532 Abdus Subhan, Third. 


No., name and division. 

Non-Collegiate External Students. 
ROLL CAL. EXT. 

:iAMA Pritiranian Chakraharti, Third. 

:1AM 7 Prados hk urnar Sarka>r, Third. 

M5 MO Jlaripada Pal, Third. 

MAI 2 liirend rum oh an Gului, Third. 

35 44 Panloshkumar Chattopadhyay, Second. 
3518 Amalkmnar De, Third. 

3AA2 Amiyakant.i Saikar, Third. 

MAAS Syed Mohammed Masud, First. 

M 550 Mohammed Sayoed, Third. 

M505 Murarimohan Bhadra. Tliird. 

MAOS Sudhindranatli Kay, Third. 

MA78 An jail Dasgupta, Tliird. 

MAPI Mir Idris Ali, Third. 

MAOM Miikuiraujan Ghosh, Second. 

MiAOO Sama-rkumar Kundu, Third. 

MOUO Prnphullakumar Gulia, Third. 

MOO I Md. Serajul Jlaque, 'Phird. 

:Ui02 Saralendu Ghosh, Third. 

M001 Bahuchundra Do, Third. 

MO I I Dulalchandra Daldar, Sneond. 

M0I“) Siinilkmiiu-r Pal, Third. 

MOIO M nt.\ utility (Miatlopadhyay, Second. 

MO I 7 'J'aMUiknmar Ghosh. Second. 

MO IS Amriialal Das, 'Phird. 

M02I Namgopal De, Third. 

3022 Kenarain Panja, Third. 

M02 1 Mt malkanf i Sen, Third. 

M02S Pit i esi'luMidra Mandal, f Phird. 

MOMO Dipakkumar M iikhopadh.\ ay , 'Phitd. 

MO' 5 1 Amaichnnd Biswas, Second. 

:*»oM<> Suhraiii ( Mull topndli vay, Second. 

.10 17 Suhrata Mandal, Third. 

MOMS Ki islinaka-mal Kusari, Seemul. 

MO I I Nepalchandr ;i Barman, Tliml. 

MO 17 S\ a malkumar Bandvopadhyay, Third. 

Mo 10 Apt. kumar Ghosh, r l lord. 

MOA 1 SamhUiiuat.il Khasnahis, Third. 

I0AA \ruiikumar Salni, 'Phird. 

• 10A0 Dilipkumar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

Mo.'iS Saileiidraeluiudra Ghakrahnrti, 'Phird. 
M002 \runkjinli Band\ opadhya> , Second. 

MOOM 'Paniukanti Baud> op;wlii> ay, 'Phird. 

.1000 MnnalUani.i Gulia 'Phird. 

1007 Samiraii ( 'ha K ralia rl i , 'Phird. 

*1072 S;i i la |a i a ii|:i n Nandirav, 'Phird. 

10 ^’2 K;hii prasad Mitra, M’liird 
MOS'i Malilal ( ’Ini k i aha i I i . '1’hird. 

MUST Kalipatla Goswnmi, 'Phird 
:170(» Arumatiin Biswas, Third. 

M7U1 A lok kumar Aditva, I'lurd. 

:?7lO K'alniidriiiiiith M ukhopmlliva*y , Tied. 

M7M.S Bi|a\ Krishna Seusarma, Second. 

.1717 Sukharnay B;mdvop:idhyay, Sisond. 

M.7A0 Dilipkumar Bhattacharvya, 'Phird. 

.‘1771 llima*1kumar Chat topadlu a v, Thiid. 

M777 Sk. Md. Yusuf! . Third.' 

M770 Haieudi akumar Gipitahluiya , Second. 
37KI Suiilkumiii 1 iomehaudhuri. Second 
3702 Bhut.iiatii !)(', Third. 

* *707 Susilkumai Ba'-u, 'Phird. 

3SM2 Suinlkumar (Miakraharti, 'Phird. 

MS0.-J Nai «\ anclia*ndra Phau.plar, 'Phird 
“ISOS Atiihiuda Maiti, Tlmd. 

381)0 A m ales Das, Third. 

MS 10 Amiyaranjan Das, Third, 
is 17 llaradhan Datta, Third* 

•‘ISIS Pradipkuuuw Acharvya, Third. 

MS20 Kammdrachamh a Kay, Third. 

MS2M Sihchandia Knrmakar, Third. 

MS20 Bimaljihan Ghosh, Tliird. 

• 1S27 Hndiivkumar Basil, Third. 

MS IM Da nil \/,ad Jhirka-it, Second. 

MHj | Nit \ arniijan Gulia, Seoi/nd. 

MS 17 lli\ri])ada (Muikraharti, 'Phird. 

MSA I Maui>sh Bandvopadhyay, Second. 

.1870 Domingo Mohon Gomes, Third. 

MS7S Silmprasad Pal it, Third. 

MS 70 Svanialkumar CMiaudhuri, Tliird. 

Msso Salilkumar Nandi, Third. 

1SSO llarisadhan Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

: '»8 y 7 Kshnunisehandra (Miaknuharti, Third. 
MS'sO Bikas Ohakrabarti, Third. 

MSOO Sainai endranat b ATukhopadhyHy, Second. 
3S01 Salilkumar Datta, Second. 

M000 'Pa«pankiimar Das. Third. 

MOOO Chit tarnnjnn De, Third. 

3007 Birendranalh Datta, Third 
M011 Suhrata Ghosh, Third. 

3019 Snehindramohan Sarkar, Third. 

3023 Kaghunath Basak, Third. 

3031 Birendnwiath Ray, Third. 

3940 Mamklal Basn, Third. 

3941 Binayknmar Ghosh, Second. 

3913 Jyotischandra Bhattacharj\ya, Third. 

.‘1947 Pulinbihari Bhaumik, Third. 

3948 Dwijendrakumar Chanda, Third. 


THE CAI/CUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


1 




No., name and division. 


No., name and division. 


Non-CoJiegiate External Students. 
ROLL CAL. EXT. 


Non-Collegiate External 8tudents. 
ROLL CAL. EXT. 


Sukuinar Naauli, Third. 

), | - ( j j lihabatosh Sarkar, Third. 

’ -I, Aninmay Kay, Third. 

Ji.V, Ddipkuniar Muulik, Third. 

lianinath Pal, Third, 
j,, ' \nilkumar Bhuttn-charyva, Third. 
h,*u ( Inttaranjan Biswas, Third. 

1 'ihJ .Meghnad Ghosh, Third. 

Dwjpomlranath CluUtojmdhyay, Third, 
i; 11,0 Hnshikes Dassarma, Third. 

-Otalclumdra M ukhc/padhyay, Second. 
Suiiiurcndranath Ghosh, Third. 

Ji;,, Ihuijimkuinar Chandhuri, Third. 

!i ;7 \ it i t kiitnnr Hhuttaeharyya, Third. 

17^ IPimciikisor Clmttopadhyay, Third. 

H.vj ^ulilinsht haiulra Chattopadhyay, Third 
ik(, riasnntaknninr Chandhuri, Third. 

•mou Madhusudau Datta, Third. 
j*r» l Mniinriwijun Dhar. r (’liird. 
lii.i.s Sudliinhnndra Patra, Third, 
inn ! sujavUnshna Biswas, Second. 

•I iff, Sa 111 k lunar Sen, Second. 

ini h > It a l>i in 1 1 anal li SaiUar, Third. 

join llatmdranatli lKvy, Second. 

lull < ' I i 1 1 1 1 1 ui \ Das, Third. 

ini’, | t i.i'»ani.nkinnar Sarkar, Third. 

lull. I'i atapchamlra Bam1yopadh\ ay. Third. 

in. 1 ! h.iiianhiliari Gh<*di, Third. 

I l i in K i ishinikanta Sarkai, Third. 


'ii:| Ih-w anatli Ghosh, T'li i rrt. 
r.l 8;inatkumar Kantra, Third. 
i \ lniikiiiiiar Som, Third, 
i \ iimalkrislma Nag, Second, 
ill \ m.ilcmlukwmar Pad , Third, 
i! : Ihmalkumar Chandhuri, Thud. 

: 1 7 ^anatkumar Chuttopndliyay , Second, 
i'll \.u ayanehaudra Nay;, Third 
i iii Dilipkumai Mukhopiwlliyay, Third. 

"2 V.ihnhiata M ukhopadliyay , Thiid. 

M.» . N 1 1 a ic ha iid t it Basil, Third. 

17 '. "•aileudi anatli Poddar, Third. 

' v '> Midiil Halim, Second. 

I "-’ l»na \ ki ishna Biiehnia, Soccnid. 

K 1 Ihmalkumar Basil, Second. 

"I v ul>.ilkumar Blial laeharv\ a, Third. 

• ’i Mm at imolian Bhaitacharv^a, Second. 
"' ,l ' \ Until Bhndui i, Third. 

il " K.Hiiiiiiiiiiu Biswas, Second. 

1 s >aiimkumar ( ’haUopadhyay , Second. 
fl ’■ 8k Pave/. .Mi. Second. 

(|1 Nmnalemlu Ghosh, Second. 

,N Mamial Chakiaharti, Third. 

I- llatankanti Ray, Third. 

^ I’a-’-itoshknmai Nandi, Third. 

‘M lhas;niiapat.i Pramanik, Third. 

-! I.n.ikiialh Chakraharti, Third. 

7 ’• \siiharan Deh, Third. 

*J daL-annnlh Kav. Tliird. 

•7' Hopidchandra Mamial, Third. 

I di. mki ishna Sinharav, Third. 


:i in 
ill* 

il 

nil 
n r, 
n in 

117) i 
,r '7 

| ! i * 1 

•in 


n;<> 

ns| 

11 S-, 

nun 

llT.i 

k'.'l 

kv: 

J.’w, 
k’M 
5 -Ms 
I -Mo 

■Ka 

^7 

k’r/-, 

%•; 

427^ 


1^7 


•ki ' .i iita kmnar Seth, Third, 
kuruchaian Ghosh, Third. 

Ihpakkumar Basu, Third. 

I leinchdrnkisor Ka>. Third. 

IM ahliatkinuar Clunttopadhyaj , Second 
Nandan Upadliyay, Third. 
Aimilliaran Das, Third. 

•Goiinndra Maiumdar, Third. 
Raujankumar Blnwlra, Second. 
1'iiankrishna Bandyopadhyay, Third, 
^ninlkanta Saha, Third. 

I'l^aanajli Chandhuri, Third. 

M’lkumar Basu, Third. 

Mamkla.1 Band.vrrpadh.vay, Third. 

;»p(‘s Sarkar, Third. 

> oilrtiram Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
Id'upatiranjan Pal. Tliird. 
p :,|1 ian Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
•.'i"atosh Raychaudhuri, Second, 
’•hapriva Maulik. Second. 

^ lokendii Sarkar, Tliird. 

'wnnlkimiar Chattopadhyay . Second, 
•nr liuyropal Mitra, Second. 
j N,|I '»iknmnr Haidar. Third, 
s 1 1* 1 1'! n * Jl Chattopadhyay, Third. 
'M'llihushan Chakraharti. Tliird. 
'‘•imikivnta Das, Third, 
im" , * Caravan Varma, Third. 

jpkinnar Sinharay, Second. 

*/* »in Das, Second. 

■Miialendn Bhattaeharyya, Third, 
o. * ,rfvn .ian Ghosh, Second. 

P *i m \ ar Bhaumik, Third. 

£ ; d V? tak uinar Mitra, Third. 

Ghosh, ( Third. 

^'hsohandra Chakraharti, Third. 


4278 Aptkumar Dattaray. 1’liird. 

4279 Suhratakumar Rnycluvudhuri, Second. 
I28ii Riitliiiulraiiath Sengupta, Second. 

4292 Suilciidrakumar Das, Second. 

I21».‘» Dhriil)e^kumar Band> ojiadhyav. Second. 
121*9 Dilipkuiunr Chakraharti, Third. 
h’Kl.'t Ainalemlu (ioswaim, Secoml. 

47kl8 Ntviidalal Chattoj'auhyay, Third. 

17109 Ranieiilal Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

1410 Siidliiudrachamlru Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
4422 Praphullakumar Mamial, Third. 

4424 Sudliamay Sen, Third. 

1440 Na^emli anatli Sarkar, Third. 

I. 4.41 Sauraiisu (Oiosli, Third. 

1442 Rniucndraprasad Sarkar, Second. 

1444 Sukmnarraiijaii Das, Third. 

1444 N awakes Chakra hurl i. Second. 

0140 .laydehkunuM* Datta, Third. 

0449 'I'ampada Saha, Second. 

0412 Chandra Sekliar Suinh, Third. 

04H Raniahatar Saksaria, Third. 

04 IS PliaiuhhushiMi ('haki nharti. Second. 

047)7 JMiainhhu.shan Pal, Third. 

0U)4 Kri.Nlma Kumar Gooika, Third. 

OUm Adil\ anarayan ’l\ovari. Third. 

0400 Atuulcndu Mukhepadhva^ , Secoml. 

0171 Kaliprasud Bama, Third. 

0472 S\ .imalkinnai Bimu, J lurd. 

I 0 1 .1 aydchchamlra Datta. Second. 

»470 Sai|<»n Cli.iki .i*0ai 1 i, 'J'hird. 

!47s Samareiidra Bamlyopadliyny, MMurd. 

0482 I hi rum liaiidi a Majumdar, Second. 

0480 Tapankinnar Bandyopadli.M»,v, 4'hird. 

0497 SuMihhau Chakraharti, Second. 

0498 .laydeh Sil. Third. 

1100 (O)p(Midranatli («hosh, Tliird, 

I I in Uaii|itkuuiar Bhai lacharyya, Third. 

1117 (Miittiwanj.il) ( haUopadhyay, Third. 

1120 K i lshnahari liana. Second. 

1124 Bunalendii Samaiita, Third. 

1 I2.j Sihaprasad (-an^opaillix ay , Second. 

1127 SantosOkuinar Sen^upta, Second. 

1129 Somnuth Da*^y;upla, M'liiid. 

1141 Sitaram (ilu.'sh. 'Tliird. 

I047» Maniklal (ian^opadhyay , Second. 

1 047 Mohitkumar Polio, Third. 

II. 48 Kamnarayan Sinha, Tliird. 

1 I 04 Sunitkumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

•1 1 14 Ainalkumar Sur, Third. 

I 1 in Bimal Bliat lacharyya, f l'hird. 

1110 A ma rnal h (OviijiopadhyuN . Tliird. 

I 1-M Ramaprasad Sen, Second. 

Il.no Sunilkumar BliaUacluwy^a, Second. 

110.) .Mai.ilal Bliadnitdiamlhuri, Third. 

11^1 Pnhitrnkumar Bhaumik, Second. 

1177) Cliitlaratiiaii Majumdar, Third. 

I 178 Snsaitikasckiiar Band.vojiadhyny, Third. 
I1SO Aiahmda Bhat 1 n< har\ > a. Second. 

1 I87» MaUlianlal Dohiiath, 'Third. 

I 189 Kamalesr*)iandra. Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
1199 IV.-Miahk umar Bliadrn. Second. 

1)07 SukiiinaiTaniau Das, 'Third. 

|7>M Sankarkumar Das, Third, 
lo 17 Susilkuniar Sen, Second. 

17)20 Nani«;opal Dewnnji, Third. 

4.V29 N'aderchaud Si I, Second. 

47747 Ani.il Cliattopadhya\ , Third 
17)11 Suhlira*nsunarav»in lhi^chi, Third. 

On 10 Suhodlikiiniar Ghosli, Sccc/nd. 

O' 49 Aplktimar (Miakraharti, Third. 

0}.n.4 Dnlahhandi a Biswas, Third. 

47)7)0 Prasanl a k umar ( haUopadhyay, Tliird. 

1A 04 Sihsankar R;>kshit Third. 

0^01 Sasankasckluir Bliattaeliaryva , Third. 

47»07, Kalipada Chattopadhr ay , Third. 

4.)00 Pra hhascluHidra Chat Inpadhyav , Second. 

On 09 Chandi Bora (Cu), First. 

47)72 Bakshminara> an Sinha. Third. 

1774 Samir PnO M’lurd 

17)89. Slixam Stimlnr Blim\alka, Second. 

17,90 Sat varjwijan Biswas, Third. 

17)91 Gridhari Taill Seksana. Snrond. 

17,99 Anan^asundar Nasc, Second. 

1002 Go], ina th Do, Third. 

4001 Nrit \ a^opal ('handlmri. Third. 

4008 Rami krishna Bandyopadliyarv. Third. 

4017 Svamalranjan Dal tachaiidhuri, Third. 

4019 Hinaykrishna Sil. Third 

4021 Sukdeh Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

4022 Srifropal Aichray. Third. 

4620 Chittiwanjan Pal, Third 

4040 Krishnadap Chattopadhyay, Third. 

1041 .Tihankrishna Barilhan, Second. 

40:12 Biswanath Pal, Third. 

4044 Narayanchandra Mitra, Second. 

4640 Sushenkuma«r Dhar, Third. 



14H 


TIIK CALCUTTA (iAZKTTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


l Past l] 


No., name and division. 

Non-Colleglate External Students. 

ROLL CAL. EXT. 

4649 Kunilichaiun Ghosh, Second. 

4613 Nilnuiui Pal, Second. 

46 44 Sohhnnkumar Majumdar, Third. 

4647 .r.votiriua.v Handyopadhyay, Third. 

1656 Bmaykrishna Chakraharti, Third. 

4657 Nitvarmndu Gupta, Third. 

1658 Prusniitakumar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

4665 Pranahen Mitri*, Third. 

4677 Tulsidas Ray, Third. 

4680 Sudliankur Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

4686 Somondrakumar Ghosh, Third. 

1089 Nit \ anniida Hhaltacharyya, Third. 

4601 .1 si p;;l< I i k1 i Narayan Todi, Second. 

4701 Asokkumai M itra. Second. 

4714 Sihaprasad (hattopadhyay, Third. 

4761 Xnantakumar Kundu, Third. 

4704 .Inganuuth Milra, Second. 

474‘1 Asimkurnar Khtwi, Third. 

4710 Nikhilchandra Ghosh, Third. 

4751 .Maiiindrachandra Hhattacliaryya, Third. 

4756 Hunan Rav, Third. 

4757 M ihirkmnnr Dasgiipta. Third. 

4700 S» t\ omlraiurth llasu, Third. 

4708 iO-atulaminda Sensm-inn, Second. 

477 1 Achmtvakmnar Majumdar, Second. 

4781 I mlrajit kumar Datta, Second. 

4786 Nahanihhushtwi Saha, Third. 

4787 Aptkmnar Basumallik, Scccynd. 

4791 Sankai prasad Ghoshdastidar, Tliird. 

480.1 Suhimalchandra Ray, Third. 

4810 Rabmdrakumar Bhwttaeharyya, Tliird. 

4811 Arunodav Mitra, Second. 

4812 Maniklal Gangopadhynv, Third. 

481.1 Sadananda Saha, Third. 

4814 Nirniipwi Palchaudhuri, Second. 

4715 Sisirkumar Ghatak, Third. 

4817 Sant.auiikumnr Das, Third. 

4828 Sk. Sliamsudditi Ahmed, Tliird. 

18.' 16 Ntmatkumar Gangopadhyay, Tliird. 

4 8: IS \malchandra Dasgiipta*, Third. 

!H;10 Samirkinnar Cliattopadliyny, Third. 

181.1 Hihhiitihlnishan Sarkar, Second. 

IS |5 S.\ama|cndu Mukliopndhyny, Third. 

1840 Dilipkumar Das, Second. 

1851 Susilchtwidra Sarkar, Second . 

4856 Nilnirranjan Rliyrhnudhuri, 'Third. 

4867 Ama rend ranath Diissarma, Third. 

1872 A hanihandlin Handy opadhy ay, Third. 

4878 Asunkuinar Rakshit, Third. 

4888 Aehiiityakuniar Raychaudhuri, Third. 

4800 Sunilkumar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

4807 .Mrinalkaiiti Chaudhuri, Second. 

4000 Swadesranjan Datta, Third. 

1002 Nunaipada Sinha, Third. 

4005 Sunilkumar Ray, Third. 

1008 Sultan Ahmad, Second.' 

4012 Madanmc/lian Mallik. Third. 

40l;l Sarhehidananda Handyopadhyay, Tirst. 

1011 Deshandliu Chakraharti, Secoml. 

1017 Suhahhandra Handyopadhyay , Tliird. 

1021 Supra kas ( 'hakrabarti, Thinl. 

10:10 Santoshkumar Nandi, Third, 
to! 14 Sacluudralal Ray, Third 

104.1 Dhirendranath Biswas, Third. 

4044 .Jalmlkumar Ghoshal, 'Hurd. 

4018 Dwipendrananiynn Hhattacliaryya, Second. 
405,‘l .lihaukumar Chukralmrti, Third. 

1062 Abdus Sat tar. Second. 

4075 Arunsnnkar T)»vs, Second. 

1078 Somnath ('hattopadhyay. Third. 

4087 Durgaclas ('hattopadhyay. Third. 

4088 \riincliamlra Ghoshdastidar. Third. 

4000 Amulvakumar Snnnwita, Second. 

1001 Dilipkumar Nandi, Third. 

5000 I hllolkuinar Sarkar, Second. 

5002 Aninkiumir Chattopadhyny, Second. 

5016 Gurudas Datta, Second . 

5019 .lyntirnmy Hliar, Second. 

5020 Apt kumar La*ha, Third. 

502:1 Arunsaukar Chakraharti, Third. 

5025 Rathiiulranath Mnitra. Second. 

50:15 Harekrishna Pal, Third. 

5011 Santoshkumar Poddar, Third. 

5051 Susdkumar Na-haray, Third. 

5055 Dilipkumar Gangopadhyay, Second. 

5057 Kahn-hand Pal, Second. 

5060 Sndhirkiunar Biswas. Third. 

5066 Asok Chaudhuri, Third. 

5072 Rabindranath Hav, Second. 

507-4 Mannskumar Sarkar, Second. 

5075 Santiranjan Chakraharti, Second. 

5076 Rameswar De, Second. 

5080 Du rga prasad Dobe, Third. 

5085 Bijankanti Dastidar, Second. 

5087 Ranjitkumar Chakraharti, Third. 

510:1 Sukhainay Handyopadhyay, Third. 


No., name and division. 

Non-Colleglate External 8tuclentt. 

ROLL CAL. EXT. 

5105 Joguhrata Sarkar, Third. 

511:1 Sk. Ahmed Ali, Third. 

5116 Amal Sengupta, Third. 

5122 Dilipkumar (’hattopadhyay, Third. 

5125 Kalyjwikiiinar Ghosh, Second. 

51:12 Gaurpada Kundu, Third. 

51.17 Nirmalkumar Chakraharti, Third. 

51.19 Asutosh Pal, Third. 

51 14 Pradyotkumar R*ay, Third. 

5151 Parimalkanti Basil, Third. 

5152 Mndhusudaoi Chakraharti, Third. 

5155 Manihhadra Thakur, Third. 

5157 Dasarathi De, Third. 

5159 Hhaktihrata Ray, Tliird. 

5166 Pnnchugopal Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

5182 Purncndu Chakraharti, Third. 

518:1 Pralmdhkumar Cliakrabarti, Third. 

5189 Dcbkumar Hbattacharyya, Second. 

5190 Gauripadu Gangopadhyay .Third. 

5191 Dilipkumar Cliakrabarti, Third. 

5191 Dipak Bhattacharyva, Third. 

5195 Jagarinatli Nath, Third. 

5200 Sudhirkumar Chaudhuri, Third. 

5207 Mihirlal Das, Third. 

.5208 Kalikinkar C hattopadhyay, Second. 

5210 Pradipkuinar Ray, Third. 

5217 ’Pridibkumar Sen. Third. 

5218 Ph rimalkumar Raychaudhuri, Third. 

5224 Is Invar Chandra Singh, Second. 

5225 Santoshkumar Sa*tnaddar, Second. 

52:14 A sit ha ran Hiswas, Third. 

5247 Manihil Hhattacliaryya, Third. 

5251 Rabindranath De, Second. 

5260 (iiiruprasad Datta, Third. 

5265 Hrnli in adattn Chaudhuri, Second. 

5274 Dilipkumar Muusi. Tliird 
5277 llliahaniranjan Thakur, Thinl. 

5295 Swadeshliuslian Gupta, Third. 

5297 Kariinanuiy Ray, Third. 

5:11 I Sudhakar Ray, Third. 

5416 lliswaiiath D»s, Third. 

5.419 J’rahbatchandra Dehnuth, Third. 

5428 Mnnalkanti llasu, Third. 

54.44 Kshauniscliandra Handyopadhyay, Thud. 
54.47 Stidhir Kundu. Third. 

5414 Himalkrishna Sil, Thinl. 

5411 Arunkuniiw Hiswas. Third. 

5.4 16 Nan i nopal Ray. Tliird. 

5.‘1.52 Bircndramvth Basil, Second. 

.5.4,56 Vkshaykumar Rajhansi, Second. 

5:158 Dilipkumar Cliakrabarti, Third. 

5:159 Saiiikumar Das, Third. 

5.403 Md. A 1ml TTashom, Third. 

5466 Asutosh Ma-jumdar, Third. 

5.467 Himalkaiiti Majumdar, Third. 

5469 Suk ha ranjan Bhattacharyva, Second. 

5.470 Hibhutihhushan Bhattacharyva, Third. 
5475 Sukc/mal Chat topiKlhyay , Third. 

5477 Mokmadhah Gangopadln ay. Third. 

5480 Suhhashcliandra Na\nk. Third. 

5494 AiiiiiIcikIii llhat tacharyyu . Third. 

.5101 Amiran pin Haml> opadliyav, Second. 

5106 .1 ayantakuniar Pal, Tliird. 

540S Sudliatnay Ray, Third. 

5109 Si id hir ran jan Das sarkar, Third. 

.5114 Mohitmohan Sur, Third. 

5117 Ranajitkuiuar Santra, Third. 

5419 Ranicndrasundar Chakraharti , Second. 
.5122 Tarapada Hajra. Thinl. 

5426 Ncpalchandra Kar, Third. 

.5427 Samarcndra Majumdar, Third. 

5428 Nirupam Dc. Third. 

5140 Suhriclkumar Majumdar, Thinl. 

514.4 Madliahchamlra Hiswas. Second. 

5499 Raniii kumar Gupta, Second. 

5111 Gopnlchandra Handyopadhyay, 'Pliird. 
5416 Dchiprasnd Manna, Second. 

5117 Kalikrishna Sarkar, Second. 

54 49 Hyoinkcs ('hattopadhyay. Second. 

5 457 Aptkumar Hanclyo}>ndhyay, Third. 

.5466 Anilkuniar Manrlal. Second . 

5167 Satvaranjan Chakraharti, Third. 

5 168 Sudluinsiihhushan (''hattopadhyay, 'I bird, 
5469 Santoshkumar Majumdar, Second. 

5175 Hijaysankar Chakraharti. Third. 

5481 Amalkanti Das, Third. 

5190 Sarojkuma r Chattopadhyny, Third. 

5 499 Lutfal Hacpie, Second. 

55(X) Parimal Majutndar, Third. 

5514 .lajnoschandra Das. Third. 

5518 V. Rauganothan, Second. 

5525 Jayantamay Bhattacharyya, Third. 

5534 Paraniananda Bharati. Second. 

5542 Pinakilal Chaudhuri, Third. 

5543 Sachidananda Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
5548 Pradyotkumar Raychaudhuri, Third. 



v > pabitraniohan He, Third. 

' j),»hkumar Mukhopadhyay, I lnr<i. 
Duiukhandra Gangopadhyay, Third. 
>f ,ntoshkuuiar Songupta, Third. 

>k. Mohammad Ghori, Third, 
s iti'inlal Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

L*., (}aurungumohun Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

\ai eii dr a noth Nath. Second. 
s 'i ^ukharanjan Das, Third. 

Kaliknshna Chattopadhyay, Second. 

52 Arnnkumar Mujunular, Third. 

^ Siimhhunath Pramanik, Second. 

( M ‘ ; Kminilkumar Dhar, Third. 

J fjH Pvasdeb Chattopadhyay, Third. 

J,j [)t‘hkumar Chattopadhyay, Second. 

K).) (iopakdiandra Mukhopadhyay . Second. 

>0] Nitynbrata Gulia, Second. 

0) Sihakinkar Das, Second. 

,]i) Somcswar Palit, Third. 

,)ii .Maniklal Datta, Third. 

M Amainath Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

,};> N lrodranjan Sarkar, Third. 

£>; Ourupadu Mallik, Third. 

joh s\ ainm-huran Mukhopadhyay , Second. 

Mimantakuinar Biswas. Third. 

,{n MitMichandra Ghosh, Thiid. 

,j.-5 Dilipkuniar Bandvopadhyuy , Second. 

,jji; suhulchandra Chakrabarti, Third, 
ij;, I'mhirkumar Bhammk, Third, 
ioj suktiprusud Kar, Third. 
rf,-j ^untiranjun Bhattachary\ a, Second. 

,711 sukumar Majumdar, Third. 

;7I Suhirkumar Biswas, Second. 
i7‘j sumlknnti Chakrabarti, Third. 

M saureudrnnath Chattopadhyay. Second, 
fly .Iilmiikuiuar Mitra, Third. 

:jM Clnmrhnlkumar Nag, f ITiird. 

!W» santoshkinnar Bern, Third. 

IM ^urcMchandra Goswunn, Third. 
iM7 siikmiiai Biswas, Third. 
j c i!i \ its aranjan Guha, Third. 

.Mamkchundra Muji, Second. 

"Us I iliruhaprasad Baybaruian. Third. 

■|i' hiuiendranath Sil, Third. 
ri -4 Manoikuniar Sinha, Second. 

:D I > i h \s anath Gangopudhya.v, Third. 

7 l'.> l’i i.vai anjan Das, Tliird. 

?J(i Dchiiprasnd Chakrabarti, Third. 

72 *> IhiiiHlendubikas Sen, Third. 

I >cl»iprasad Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

7 *'U Suhodliehandrn Chattopadhyay, Second. 
7'»7 r l ulsulas Chaudhun. Third. 

7 Hi '-nUasadhnn Hay, Second. 

7 IJ \swinikiunar Biswas. Third. 

'j’> ilimansukurnar Dattaray, Third. 

B.mikanla Guugopadhyuv, Third. 

17'] Aiitkrishna Sarkar, Second. 

17 ' Vti a\ aitclianilni Das. Second, 
l‘£ Kartikchumlru Hay, Third. 

2 " *Bolipiasad Bandyopadliyay, Second. 

Hf ihi;iramdhar (iayen, Third, 
it! VuiiKopal Sil, Third. 

11' (Jopalcliandra Ghosh, Third. 
l‘ :i Vmndramohun Basil, Thiid. 

V 1 1 1 kumar Chattopadhyay , Third. 
Jhnodchandia Goswami, Second, 
i;, { •‘uiulchundra Deh, Third. 

[*• ahu kumar ('hakrabarti, Second, 
h'kshmitiarayan Ohattopadhyay. Third. 

‘ h*‘kshmikanta Bera, Second. 

:; ,0 ^kuinar Maiti, Third. 
ihl i > ] 1 n( hpkumar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

Iku *' Mon lhanath Mitra, First. 

, l iniu 'K»pal Mukhopadhyay, Second. 

Utj- , ‘iriprasad Bhattacharyya, Second. 
J^'kshinikiinta Bera, Third. 

^Tuhhandra Samanta, Third, 
kin i, ll , va ^°Pal Ghorui, Second. 
m; ./“ytrakuinar Ohakrabarti, Third, 
'ulmkiniiar Ghosh, Third. 
iai iiitlrabhushan Ghosh, Third. 


1 Krishnachamlra Bhattacharyya, Second. 

3 Hamchandra Misra, Second. 

8 Hamcschandra Dus, Second. 

10 Pitamhar Bh uiya. Third. 

18 Krishnakesah Das, Second. 

19 Kalipada Nancla, Third. 

23 Parameswar Gayen, Third. 

24 BhahnOclu handru De. Third. 

2d Muktmuth Ghosh, Third. 

37 Kshudiruiii Adhikari, Third. 

39 Bikraiujit Das, Third. 

45 Sudhircliandru Das, Third. 

50 Susilkumar Mid.va, Second. 

5(> Santoshkiiiiiar De, Third. 

57 Chatiirbhuj Maili, Third. 

04 Satischaiidrn Patru, Third. 

(m Dharanidhar Manna, Third. 

08 Anilranjutt Sasmal, Third. 

70 Anantakuniar Maiti, Third. 

74 Srideh Acharyva, Tliird. 

85 Kunn.jitkuiuar Maiti, Second. 

80 Bimai kumar Pradhan, Second. 

90 Harckrislma Misra. Second. 

103 Xuheiidukanti Das. 'Phird. 

110 Bliudehchaiidra Pradliaai, Third. 


ROLL COO. EXT. 

13 Bircndrakumar Ri*y, Third. 

31 Harendrachaudra Pal, Third. 

32 Hahindranaf It Sarkar, Third. 

34 Suhirchandra Bhaumik, Third. 

40 Parcschundra Goswami, Second. 

4 1 Stiuilkuimir Bhaumik, S<*con<l. 


ROLL DAR. EXT. 

7 Raj Bahadur Pradhan, Third. 

19 Ham Katun Gupta, Second. 

22 Arjun Sinu[li, Second. 

4.‘> Soiinm Tsi.ei inula. Third. 

49 Nmnnl (-handra Khalin^, Third. 
58 Dhanhahadiir Tanning, Third. 

(>2 Krishna Bahadur Piadhnn, Third. 


ROLL DIA. EXT. 

1 I’amhknri Sardar, 1’hird. 

2 Huhiil Amin Molla, Third. 

3 Ana<lihhiishan Das, Third. 

0 San rend rami tli Dehsarkar. Secoml. 
13 Niranpinkiimar Saphui, Second. 

19 Anilkumai- Ghosh. Sccomi. 

28 Kabmdranath Kaval, 'Phird. 

13 Dinabandhu Sana. 'Phird. 

53 Bihhu])rasad Haidar, Third. 

59 Mtirarimohan Haidar, Third. 

09 Pratulkiimar Purkait, Se(‘ond. 

79 Surescliandra Bay r Phird. 

80 Hamsiindar Mukhopudhyav, Third. 
82 Md. Abdul Goui Naskei , Third. 

101 Pritirunjan Misra, Second. 

129 Manoraiijan Mandal. Thinl. 

13 1 Santoshkumar Mallik, 'Phird. 

13."> Anilkumar Naskar, Third. 

DMj Harudlian Das. 'Phird. 

138 Kamulkanti Bhuiyan, Sc<*ond. 

142 P 11 .su pat i Das, Third. 

144 Sanjayketan Jana, Third. 

1.71 Nilkantha Kay, Second. 

100 Mrityunjay Bhaumik, Third. 

173 Parimalkumar Maiti, Third. 

177> Nripendrachandra Biswas, Third. 


ii ^‘iuntyak 


ROLL CHANGER. EXT. 

umar ^dhikari, Second. 


u . {luiuKun, owunu. 

14 Chattopadhyay, Third. 

15 p U 'u ur . liar Dechaudhuri, Third. 

28 J^patieharan Da a, Third. 

p r ,,, 1 , )a ^ un !)»»> Second, 
tt An,, li J ) k uniar Datta, Second. 

i lU i nar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

r tlkchandr» RannirnnA/lhvflv Third. 


ROLL DIN. EXT. 

1 Sukumar Sen, Third. 

2 Surertdrachandra Datta, Second. 

4 Kanjankumar Ohakrabarti, Third. 

8 Anilkumar Ghosh, Third. 

9 Hathindralal Baral, Third. 

17 Sunilchandra Das, Third. 

21 Raghuprasad Adhikari, Third. 

22 Arunranjan Bhadra, First, 

23 Priyatosh Hay, Third. 


THE CALCUTTA UAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


iP.vir 


150 


No., nanio and division. 

Non-oollegiate External Students. 
ROLL GARH. EXT. 

12 SaktiKankar Bhuiyun, Third. 

10 Chittaninjan Son, Third. 

40 Muktipada l*atra, Third. 

ROLL GOB. EXT. 

J1 I’jjHulkuniar ( 'huliopadhyay, Second. 

12 Ku'.iuchumii a l>ai, Thiiu 
i Vi Kuutaikumui Dus, Second. 

25 Punmui Bakslut, Thud. 

20 Sankai prasad Mitra. Thud. 

44 Suplialkumar Mandal, Third. 

44 Mungopal Mallik, Third. 

45 Kosahohundra ltiswas. Third. 

57 llanpa<la Biswas, Second. 

ROLL HAB. EXT. 

7 Nirinalomhi Bhattachuryya, Second. 

8 Asishkutnar Mm, Second. 

11 Kui Likchandru Do, Third. 

12 Biuavsankar Sarkhel, Second. 

10 Sat.varanjan Dighal, Third. 

.14 Bajcmli anaiayan Bhattacharyya, Second. 
45 Dhirendranat h Bepuri, Second. 

40 Manoranjan Basil, Third. 

45 Sarojkanti ilaldav, Third. 

48 Saktikanta Mnjumdai , Second. 

50 Saluirahha Scngupla, Third. 

50 Bainkiimar Sinharuy. Second. 

57 .1 ihankrislina Saha, Third. 

(si Syamalkanti Muklmpadhyay, Third. 

ROLL HETAM. EXT. 

1 Sudhirkuinar Biswas, Third. 

2 Nabanidhar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

5 Piabhatkumar M ukhopadhyay. Third. 

10 Syamapada J)c, Third. 

5 I Dcbkumar ( Ihattonadhvay , Third, 
i. r ) Dchnhnita Mandal. Third. 

20 Patitpabun Das, Third. 

ROLL HOW. EXT. 

2 Sunilkiiniar Patra, Third. 

I Asokkumar Pal, Second. 

S Nai ayamhandra Bandyopadhvay, Third. 
0 Ninnalkanti Chakrabarti, First. 

10 (lauiiuohaii Chattopadhyay , 'Third. 

11 M i igatikasokhar Dc, Third. 

12 Nmiaichand Chakrabarti, Thud. 

IT) Jagunuath Sarkar, Tliinl. 

10 Nirmalcndu B:i\chaiidlnin. Third. 

21 Anupkmnai Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

22 Han Basil, Third. 

27 Kaindas Bandvopadhyay. Third. 

20 Niniialkuinai Chattopadhyay . Third. 

41 Sukdch Chattopadhyay, Third. 

17 Tasupati Das, Second. 

40 A hhaypada Mitra, Third. 

58 Arnnprakas Dul l a, Third. 

01 Thamranjan Pul, Third. 

02 Satyaraujan Saha, Third. 

01 Sitadchuudru Datta, Third. 

71 Sihuprasad Ghosh, Third. 

72 Gohmdulal Kannakar, Third. 

71 Bipul Sarkar, Third. 

80 .la bmdruchundra Bisw r as, Third. 

88 Sukuinar Datta, Third. 

80 Munwnnohan Sainanta, Third. 

04 Kanaichaiidra Das, Third. 

04 Bamandas Bandvopadhyay , Third. 

10! Ainiyakumar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

102 Knshnakuma>r Basu, Third. 

704 Kartikchnndra Chakrabarti, Third. 

108 Dinabandhu As, Third. 

112 Ajitkumar Ilay, Second. 

114 Sajalkumar Bandvopadhyay, Second 
116 Tarnna-lkumar Sarkar, Third. 

118 Biswanath Chakrabarti, Second. 

1 L0 Subalchandra Lahiri, Second. 

120 Anilkumar De, Third. 

127 daynarayan Sinha, Third. 

141 Gopalchandra Mitra, Third. 

142 Sudhirchundra Bhattacharyya, Third. 

135 Jaynarayan Dasgupta, Third. 

147 Asimkuniar Pal, Third. 

140 Samblmnath Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

144 Ajaykurnar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

145 Sambhucharan Chattopadhyay, Third. 

151 Sambliunath Gangopaahyay, Second. 

152 Asokkumar Raychaudhuri, Third. 

154 Ajitkumar Ghosh, Third. 

161 Dilipkumar De, Third. 

166 Dwijendraoath Ghosh, Third. 


No., name and division. 

Non-oollegiate External Students. 
ROL1 HOW. EXT. 

170 Salilendu Sengupta, Third. 

171 Bhumendranatli Ghosh, Third. 

174 Nimaichand Basumallik, Third. 

177 Cluttaranian Mitra, Third. 

181 Gohiiidalal Mukhopa-dliyay, Third. 

102 Asitianjan Chattopadhyay, Third. 

101 Niliarraiijan ( 'hakrabarti, Third. 

108 Saktipada M ukhopadhyay Second. 

206 Asokkumar Manna. Third. 

2(»i Indrujit Kumar, Third. 

220 Bunalchandra Ghosh, Third. 

247 Syamaprasad Bhattacharyya, Third. 

248 Sihaprasad Datta, Third. 

210 Dilipkumar Mukhoiiadhyay, Third. 

242 i'raiiahkiimar Smha, Third. 

24 4 Amalendti Bhattacharyya, Socond. 

248 Paresnath Poddar, Second. 

262 Ajaykurnar Kundu, Third. 

264 Makhanlal Das, Third. 

200 Dobiprasad Bhattacharyya, Third. 

270 Biswanath Mitra, Socond. 

270 Ranjitkmnar Datta, Third. 

200 Biswanath Ghosh, Third. 

402 Nikliilranjan Saha, Third. 

.401 Subha slichandru Samanta, Second. 

405 Hiniansusekliar Biuidyopadhyay, Third. 

406 Sk. Abdur Koul, Second. 

512 Patitpahan Bay, Third. 

2d 1 Banipada Bhuttacharyya, Socond. 

HI0 Pantiyshchandra Das, Third. 

420 Kalyankumai* Basil. Third. 

424 Siitiilknnti Ghosh, Third. 

ROLL HUG. EXT. 

4 Kuril nadiAud Mallik, Third. 

6 Mil. Zamiruddin. Third. 

12 Bamoudranath Chattopadhyay, Second. 

17 Tapnnkumur Nath, Third. 

.*18 Manmatlianuth Ghosh, Second. 

42 Dcdtahrata Bhatt acharvya. Third. 

44 Dehakikiimar Basu, Third. 

46 Naroschandra Das, Third. 

56 Banendranath Chandlmri, Third. 

01 Gopaldas Bhattacharyya, Third. 

04 Bumemlrakumur Sen, Third. 

06 Sundarnarayan Chattopadhyay, Thiid. 

ROLL ITA. EXT. 

3 Ni tv a nan da Sadhu Khan, Third. 

4 Md. Yasuimollah Third. 

8 JLalitmohan Ghosli, Second. 

12 Sailendnwiuth Mandal, Third. 

21 Kanialkuiuur Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

28 Batuendranarayan Biswas, Third. 

:tS Ajitkumar Bandyopadhyay Third. 

48 Dihakar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

ROLL JAL. EXT. 

4 Sadhaii Basu, Second. 

4 Dchahrata Basu, Second. 

7 Bnmuniiiiohau Sutradhar, Third. 

Hi Samhhunath Gangopadbyay, Third. 

11 Amnrondrajit Bhattacharyya, Second. 

12 Anilkumar Do, Third. 

L4 Bidyananda Mitra, Third. 

11 Bijanbihari, Kar, Second. 

18 Niraujan Chakrabarti, Third. 

25 Sankarkumar Kay, First. 

40 Sat.vmranjan Kakshit, Third. 

48 Santoslikumar Mukliopadhyay, Third. 

50 Subodhkumar Ray, Third. 

56 Santoslikumar Ghosh, Second. 

64 Bimalkrishna Bliauinik, Third. 

<>8 Dinesdas Maulik, Third. 

72 Dulalkrishna Chakrabarti, Third. 

81 Jagannath Mukhopndhyay, Third. 

84 Upendranath Basak, Third. 

84 Tarasankar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

89 Pranahkanti Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

92 Onkarmal Kshetri, Third. 

95 Haridas Sarkar, Second. 

95 Anadibhusha-n Chakrabarti, Third. 

97 Ajitkumar Ghosh, Third. 

ROLL JANGI. EXT. 

1 Madangopal Sarkar, Third. 

10 Biswaranjan Sinharay, Third. 

12 Asokkumar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

20 Sunilkumar Maitru, Third. 

21 Mohammad Mohiuddin, Third. 

28 Alakkumar Sanval, Third. 

Mfci Sirajuddin Shaikh, Second. 

37 Nakulchandra Ghosh, Third. 


■ A «r I«J 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


151 


No., name and division. 

Mon-Collegiate External Students. 

ROLL JHAR. EXT. 

Jvotiprakas Dab. Third. 

7 vsitkiimar Datta, Third. 

1U Nagendranath Alahapatru. Third. 

•i] Hhimsen Dandapat, Third. 

Smlhansusekhar Day, Second. 

41 A tules* ar Datta, Third. 

4 > piiniiichamlra Mahatu, Third. 

17 Sukhendubikas Suu, Third. 

ROLL JIA. EXT. 

1 Siiuinendrnkunuir Gupta, First. 

;i (I uruprasad Dus, Third, 
ii Sukiimur Biewas, Third. 

U, ('hand Mai Jain, Third. 

17 Subnlchundra Sinha, Third. 

2 (j Pra-biiatkumar Chaudhuri, Third. 

Md. Manwar Hossain, Third. 

41 Sukannilendu Biswas, Third. 

iirajainohan Nasipuri, Third, 
ol Md Abdur Ktozaaque, Third. 

ROLL KAILA. EXT. 

lOapliullukimmr Nutli, Third, 
ii Ihkus Kilikdar, Third, 
p* Mosmddm C’howdhury, Second. 

•*» Xikhdhlmsluwi Chauuhun, Second. 

'0 ill], slllk es Nug, Third. 

,**.» l mupiidu Bhutlurhuryya, Third. 

ROLL KALIM. EXT. 


No., name and division. 

Non*Colleglate External Students. 

ROLL KHARAQ. EXT. 

2 Dipakkumar Ray, Second. 

10 Sarnirkumar Senguptu, Second. 

Id Mnnoranjau Saha, Third. 

14 lii cndranatli Bhattacharyya, Third. 

10 Nityununda Pal. Third. 

10 Dorai Rajti, Third. 

20 K. Kashi Ran, Second. 

2 8 Suhhreudu M ukhopadhyay, Second. 

.1.1 Chinniay liamlv opadhvoy, Second. 

•Vi MuLliurahihari Mandal, Second. 

1") Dihycudu Chuudltun, Second. 

10 Dulalchnudru Punch ri. Third. 

50 Aniiilyakiunar Khatuu, Third. 

5 1 Ajitchandra Atartlu, Second. 

52 Bhahatosh Rhuttacharyya, Third. 

50 Ujju alkumar Chakrabarti, Second. 

57 (Ihanasyam Prainanik, Third. 

58 Abadhyotakiunar (Ihosh, Third. 

02 Sripjiticlia ran Maiti, So ond. 

65 Madhabendu Pal, Third. 

04 Pulinbihnri JM a tidal, Third. 

05 Pushpuranjan Chakrabarti, Third. 

07 Nikhilranjan Maiti, Third. 

72 Suren dranath Sarkar, Third. 

70 Sasankasekhar Jana, Third, 

KS Maiiorunjan Sarkar, Second 
80 lMururidus De, Third. 

00 Auandagopul Prainanik, Third. 

01 Clam lsankar BhnM aeharyya, Third. 

02 (O/palchumlni Sain, Second. 

00 Xiradbaian Das, Second. 

118 Katneswar Kundu, Second. 


t> Thomas Mukhia, Third. 

01 I’abitrakumar Ray, Second. 

Jl AJingma Tsering Lama, Third. 

10 SiisiJchandru Chakrabarti, Second. 

ROLL KALNA. EXT. 

1 Sukumar Bandy opadliy ay, Third. 

2 Kasmath Bhuttnoharyya, Second. 

.1 (laiiesehandra Sarkar, Second. 

21 \iiiiikuniar M ukhopadhyay, Second. 

1 liivndr ucliandra Ray, Second. 

.11 -iMUMiakuinar Majumdar, Third. 

I"* lhswanath Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

17 hi iHgendranath Sarkar, Third. 

7 s Suchintyakumar Mukhopadhyay, Second. 
5 1 Smlliirkumar De, Third. 

7)0 Manojkuinar Mukhopadhyay, Third, 
cl Saniaicndrasokbar Chakrabarti, Second. 
<ji Maliunnpuda Chattopadhyay , Second. 

1 1 Sunihliuprasad Adhikari, Third. 

Sam bhuciiu ran Mandal, 'Hurd. 

(<) A mlkuinar Rana, Third. 

v ’ i * .iagudiscbandra Kundu, Third. 

S J Malmdeb Bandyopadhyay, Second 
Saiitmiay III i alia chary ya, Third, 
j’l Seik Samsuddm, Third, 
be KaUnukiimar (Ihosh, Third. 

Ibuialcbandra Kur, Third. 


ROLL KANDI. EXT. 

^ lb)a>\ krishna (Ihosh, Seer/nd. 

\ KshitiKcbandra Mandal, Third. 

; Nani> anchandra Kansubanik, Third. 

;; Sun tk lunar Ray, Third. 

: t \ Similchandra Das, Second. 

77. Sukhwnay Ray, Third. 

7)~ Abdul Kahir, Third. 

J b»l ikehandra Kuyehaudhuri, Second, 
ih ;'^ ll,l,, anjan Dattachaudlmri, Third. 
>luinaiijay Sen, Third. 


i 

oi 

■)2 

$1 

go 

62 

OS 

74 

So 

y< 


ROLL KAT. EXT. 

■jaktidas Bandyopadhyay. Second. 

itvakumar (ihosh, Third, 
blipkumar Datta, Third. 

* 1 mdahan Mandal, Third. 

Amarnall, Datta, Third. 

Ran das Sarkar, Third. 

^plchandra Ghosh, Third. 
pV 1 - Foale Rob, Third. 

Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
Oitkumar Ilaldar, Third. 

l asm l (1 * r Mukhopadhyay, Third. 


woosh, 
I)a», Second. 
t,ar Rahman, Third. 


ROLL KRI. EXT. 

4 SibendraiUKt.li l)e. Second. 

(i Dilipktimar Chattopadhyay Third. 

0 Dilipkmnar Biswas, Second. 

10 .Tagadischaudra Deb, Second. 

12 Sunilkiunar (Ihosh, Second. 

17 Sukhendu Mondol, Third. 

20 Sunt kuinar Mondal. Third. 

21 Pnyula I Aicli, Third. 

20 Dilipkumnr Sarkar, Third, 

27 Bnnalkrishna Mandal. Third. 

M2 Narnyarichandra Sil. Second. 

55 Sukumar Mandal, Third. 

12 Rabindranath Chattopndhyny, Third. 

48 PijiiKhkanti Bandyopadhyay* Third. 

51 Upondraohandra Sarkar, Third. 

65 Manoranjan (loswaini, Third. 

00 Bimalcndu Bhattacharyya, Third. 

07 Sarnirkumar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

08 llrisliikes Biswas, Third 
72 Arunkiran Alai Ira, Third. 

70 (It/paldas Maitra Second. 

78 (lopalcliatidra Tnlapntru, Third. 

70 (iohimlasankar Chakra harti. 'I'liird 

81 Samarondranaf.h Chaudhuri, Second. 

82 Saritoshkumar Biswas, Third. 

8:1 Nripendranatli Saha, Third. 

81 Jiimalchandra Sarkar, Third. 

88 Manmatlianath Kar. Third. 

0:1 Jagannath Biswas, Second. 

07 Prabliatkmnar Mait.ra, Third. 

08 Mahadehchandra. Ray, Second. 

90 Paritoeh Aeharyya, Third. 

107 Siinilkmnar (’haudhuri, Third. 

110 Sainarranjan Ba-iulyojiadliyay, 'Hurd 
112 Subodhehandra Sarkar, Third. 

122 Jyotishchandra Salia, Third. 

12M Ganrchandra Dehnatli, Third. 

127 H irendranath (’hattopadhyay. Second. 
110 Jtatankmnar (Ihosh, Third. 

151 Ashislikumai Sengupta. Thii<l. 

155 Kamales Biswas, Third. 

150 Prasantakumar Biswas, Second. 

1 0M .Jasasekhar Kundu, Third. 

100 Bimolendu Das, Second. 

107 Bhagiratli Pramanik, Third. 

100 Kalidas Ray. Third. 

170 Pradipkumar Piplai, Third. 

ISO Tarapada Jas, Second. 

181 Khaunischandra Bandyopadhyay, Third. 


ROLL MAH I. EXT. 

14 Pulinbiliari Raut, Third. 

10 Sisirkumar Jana. Third. 

21 Kshitischandra Das, Third. 

22 Ramprasad Das, Third. 

25 Samirankumar Moiti, Second. 

25 Kisorimtyhan Das. Third. 

55 ltameschandra Manna, Third. 

42 Arabinda Dhara, Second. 



152 


Til K CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


[Part ib 


No., name and division 

Non-collegiata Externa! Student*. 

ROLL MAHI. EXT. 

43 Bimalendusekhar (Jin, Third. 

45 Subhransu.sekhar Sa-nbighna, Third. 

4G Prahodhkumar Manna, Third. 

62 Bhrtguram Purkait, Third. 

63 Ntrapada Mamial, Third. 

GO Sudhansvist'khar Samanta, Second. 

G2 SivtiHchandra Samanta, Third. 

71 Seraju! Khan, Third. 

72 Taradas Bayal, Third. 

89 Uaurhun Sam, Third. 

91 Satyaranjan Das (Oa), First. 

106 Saikh Latifur Rttharnan, Second. 

109 Arnalendusekhnr Panda, Third. 

110 Hemantukumar Das. Third. 

111 Barendranath Santra, Third, 

115 Niranjankumar Maiti, Third. 

117 Rampada Das, Third. 

!21 Clohindraprasad Bhnuinik, Third. 


ROLL MAL. EXT. 

1 Bhaheschandra Chakrabarti, Third. 

2 Mm pen dram*th Goswami, Third. 

21 Auilkumar Sarkar, Third. 

30 Nirinalendu Datta. Third. 

32 Binialbhushan Acharyya, Third. 

37 Bijayehandra Ghosh, Third. 

45 Gaurkmhna Goswami, Third. 

61 Satnuiranath .Ilia, Third, 

G2 Saktnnay Basak, Second. 

63 Sujitkumar Bugchi, Third. 

70 Bratindranarayan Sinha, Third. 

8,3 Satyendra mi tli Sarkar, Second. 

91 Niwnitkiimar Gujita, Third. 

97 Biswnmbhar Chaudhuri, Third. 

113 Anishkmnar Ray, Third. 

115 Bebdas Chattopadhyay, Third. 


ROLL MID. EXT. 

8 SusilranjaTi Gulmthakurta, Second. 

9 Dehendranath Das, Second. 

12 Fustace Reis, Second. 

13 Bhohmath Das, Third. 

27 Binodbihari Chaudluiri, Third. 

30 Binnyhhushan Khan, Third. 

48 Banndranath Jana, Third. 

66 Sunilkumar Maiti, Third. 

68 Sarajuprasad Sinha, Third. 

69 Sa,p*ikuniar Ray, Third. 

67 Tantprnkas Ghosh, Third. 

68 Tnnipada Das, Third. 

81 Bireskuniai Chakrabarti, Third. 

97 Deluprasad Maiti, Third. 

98 Satis<4iaudra Jana, Second. 

99 Sisirkumar Das, Third. 

100 Niranjankumar JVlnndal, Third. 

109 Milanprasad De, Third. 

Ill .) item! rana ill Bhakat. Third. 

116 Basatit»kumar Manna. Third. 

127 Baripikshu Nanda, First. 

133 llatanchandra Dalai, Third. 

138 Pushpendubikas Sahu, First. 


ROLL NASA. EXT. 

1 Haridas Pnl, Third. 

3 NitnaichfMidra Das, Second. 

6 Byomkes Chakrabarti, Third. 

9 Nilmani Ray, Third. 

31 Sankarpada Das, Third. 

33 Jaminikanta Biswas, Third. 

:i9 Apurbakurnar Ghosh, Third. 

43 Mana*tosli Debnath, Third. 

46 Asitkumar Das, Third. 

61 Prahladchnndra Ray, Third. 

62 Priyagopal Chaudhuri, Third. 

84 Bliupeschandra Bit, Third. 

85 Rabindrachandra Nath, Third. 

87 Pa*upati Mandal, Third. 


ROLL NABAQRAM EXT. 

4 Kiranlal Bhatta, Second. 

9 Suphalchandra Patra, Second. 

11 Pabitrakumar Biswas. Third. 

17 Biswanath DatCa, Third. 

28 Pmbhartkumar Sil, Third. 

46 Abdur Jtajak Khandekar, Third. 


No., name and division, 

Novt-ooltegiate External Students. 
ROLL NAI. EXT. 

2 Basantakumar Pal, Third. 

3 Svamapada Ray, I'hird. 

13 Susilranjan Pal, Third. 

22 Ram Niwidan Shaw, Second. 

27 Annntadeb Chattopadhyay, Third. 

2H Sadhankumar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

39 Uamondrakumur Ghosh, Second. 

47 Nimaichandra Msiumdar, Second. 

48 Amalranjan Sen, Third. 

52 Dipakranjan Gupta, Third. 

55 Sankarprasad Bandy opadhyay, Second. 
65 Dighijay De, Third. 

78 Ranetidranath Kar, Third. 

81 Phanibhuslian Majumdar, Third. 

90 Krishnakamal De, Third. 

97 Satycndranath Datta, Third. 

1(H) Manaskumar Bliattacharyy®, Second. 

101 Tulsidas Sanyal, Third. 

104 Pradvotkumar Saha, Third. 

105 Rajendra Prasad Mishra Second. 

106 Surendra* Pratap Singh, Third. 

108 Amalcndu Majumdar, Second. 

110 Dilipkumar Bhaitucharyya, Third. 


ROLL PURULIA EXT. 

1 Satveiidranath Maitra, Third. 

10 Santoshkumar Chattopamlhyay, Third. 

11 Sadananda Mitra, Third. 

12 Chaiulramolnin Nath, Third. 

15 PraphuLlakumar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
17 Bihhutibliushan Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

23 Mrinalkanti Ghosh, Second. 

24 Rabindranath Mukhopadhyay, Third. 


ROLL RAI. EXT. 

3 Suslik umar Ghosh, Third. 


ROLL RAM. EXT. 

3 Ranaptkumar Adhikari, Third. 

5 Nityunuudu Ray, Second. 

7 SaJilkumar Chattopadhvay , Third. 

9 Md. Kudratullah ChiMidhuri, Third. 

19 Antimsakha Dhar, Third. 

21 Amalchaml Barman, Third. 

26 Srikmnar Chattopadhyay, Tliird. 

30 Kaileudranath Pal, Second. 

39 Santoshkumar Bhattacharyya, Third. 

40 Samhhunath Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
47 Santikuinar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

51 Malm mined Kudrat Ali Molla, Third. 
57 Jagannath Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

80 Nmuuclmntn Praimwnik, Third. 

81 A lx 1 u i Roll, Third. 

87 Sulmschundra Dassarkar, Third. 

91 Ajitkumar Ray, Second. 

92 Prahhatkumar Pandit, Third. 


ROLL RANA. EXT. 

1 Tulsiprasad Lu-hiri, Second. 

3 Sachindranatli Ghosh, Third. 

11 Pankajlal Goswami, Third. 

13 Saktisadhan Mukhopadhyuy, Second. 

14 Prasanta Chanda*, Third. 

15 Pankaidulal Thakur, Third. 

42 Ranjitkumar Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
45 Bimalkumar Kar, Third. 

49 Drripkumar Bhaduri, Third. 

50 Siteschatidra Nandi, Third. 

55 Sunilkumar Chaudhuri, Third. 

58 Krishnaranjan Chakrabarti, Third. 

59 Loknatli Sarkhel, Third. 

64 Pariinalkumar Biswas, Second. 

67 Girinchandra Biswas, Third. 

77 Kasida-s Chakrabarti, Third. 

82 Ranjitkumar Chanda, Third. 

«K> Sat.vendranath Karmakar, Third. 

114 Susilkumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
123 Pankajkumar Biswas, Tliird. 

126 Kama I pa da Biswas Second. 

128 Bikascliandra Kunmi, Third. 


ROLL RANG. EXT. 

2 T. Raja Manickam, Second. 

3 Pabitrakumar Bardhan, Third. 

4 Kamalendu Barua, Third. 

9 Am ares Chakrabarti, Third. 

10 Utpal Basu, Third. 

22 Asitkumar Kanungo, Second. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


153 


\K r m 


No.; name and division. 

Non-Collegiate External Students. 
ROLL RANI. EXT. 

I liijiivkuinar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

; Molntmohan Chattopadhyay, Second. 

,j lihuhanikumar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

<.» itiirtmi Basely Smart, Third. 

I* Sihadas Bandyopadhyay, Second. 

17 Sukuinar Bandyopadhvuy, Second. 
Aswinikumar Ghosh, Third. 

Sunilkumar Ray, Third. 

Vi Kebab rata Handy opadhyay. Second. 

■is Adityakumar Sinha, Third. 


ROLL RISH. EXT. 

Asmikiunar Chattopadhyay, Third. 

(1 Si bap i a sad Chattopadhyay, Third. 

,s (Jopalchandra Bandyopadhyay, Third, 
in sukuinar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

11 sMiTiiiilkuinar Karmakar, Third. 

1 - sal varanjan Bandyopadhyay , Third. 

•jo Rabindranath Kar, Second. 
j 4 (’iiinmay Bagchi, Second. 

>_N < liniidramohan Das, Third. 

Vj Diilalchandru Kanrar, Third, 
in Arunkuniar Bliattacharyya, Third. 

4 ^ India rkanti Sinha, Third. 

;,u Subliendukumar Barman, Third. 

Katanchnndra Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

> Sat\ anarayan Das, Third. 

,,‘,i (iaunsankar Sen, Third. 

(,u \sokkumar Chnknibarti, Third, 
till Mudaiichiuulru Das, Third. 

(,7 Manimlrakuniar Khntt acharyya. Third, 
(ill Itaiijitkiunar Sen, Third. 


ROLL SANTI. EXT. 

Aimiabha Gi/swami, Second. 

7 Kiih.idh All Shaikh, Third. 

Hi \hanihhiishan Haidar, Second, 
h Sii|;i\kumar ( 'hakraharl i. Second. 

I'i 8u<lhniiduhikus Ghosh, Third. 

-ii \|itkumar Bandyopadhyay , Third. 

.'7 Dehaluata ( ’ha ttopadhy;H> , Second. 

V (iiarerulraiiatli Nalh, Third. 

* s \ I ulchamlra Chakraharti, Third. 

W llisaapati Datta, Third. 

I ’. I l.iifiidranat h Laliari, Third. 

II I'aiicli ugopa I Chattopadhya\ , Third. 


ROLL SER. EXT. 

- J’.mchkari Mitra, Seeoml. 

{ Suktikiinini Chattopudhx ay, Third. 

• I'iuicharian Ray, Third. 

' s x aniadas Gupta, Third 

I S;itym*haran Santra, Third 
l Akhilehandrn Sarkar, I’iiird. 

\banindranath Pamgrahi, Third. 
k Nnrendrakumar Pal, Tnird. 

1 ^auiar Ghosh. Second. 

I Kapilmaiii Do, Second 

^Innalkanti Bandyopadhyay. Second, 
'■uikrishna Mukhopadhyay, Second. 
Gobindnpada De, Third. 

“ Sengupta, Second. 

J ( hifctaranjan Sarkar, Third. 

! Adwaitanath Bar. Third. 

* ^ubindaehandra De. Third. 

^ ■\nmkumar Ray, Third. 

fJ ^ubnnal Chaudhuri. Third. 

‘ wanajitkumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

Murarimohan Goswami, Third. 

0 1 unchanan Pal, Third. 


ROLL 8ILI. EXT. 

^•santakumar Sarkar, Third. 
y*nirKankar Chakraharti. Third, 
'p'lsantakinnar Mukhopadhyay, Third, 
•yrendra Sarkar. Third. 

>f«rojondu Sen, Third. 

^dchandra Das, Third. 
obn| >a ^ os | 1 | <;uniar j) as> Second. 
-Jibratakumar Bhatta chary ya, Third, 
-l.anikehandra Das, Second. 
“ ,s nnupada Bandyopadhyay, Third. 
*j a hdas Majumdar, Second. 
r abitraranjan Bhaumik, Third. 


No., name axnd division. 

Non-Col leglate External Students. 
ROLL SYAM. EXT. 

1 Kukuniurohandn* Surkar, Third. 

2 Madangopal Sarkar, Third. 

5 Asutosh t Chakraharti. Third. 

0 Matiorunjau Bakai , Tliird. 

14 Suktipada Dattop, Second. 

Jo Biswauath Chattopadhyay, Third. 

HI Jvurulikiiiuur Kar, Second. 

20 Nahiikuniar Rnv, Second. 

21 Dilipkumar Mukhopadhyay, Third. 

20 Chandieharuti Balia, Second. 

52 Ajilkiiniur Bandyopadhyay, Third. 

ROLL TAKI. EXT. 

3 Nimaichandra Chattopadhyay, Third. 

ROLL TAM. EXT. 

2 Satischandra Jana, Third. 

15 Chandrasekhar Munsi, Third. 

It) Akshaykunmr Bhamnik, Soccmd 
18 Kamalkrishtia Nayak, Third. 

10 Sudarsan Pahan, Third. 

20 Sat.varanjan Ghosh, Second. 

21 Gnhindaprasad Kuilu, So(‘ond 
25 Harekrishna Pal, Third. 

21 Gunadhar Barui, Third 

27 Anjankumar Pradhan, Third 

28 Amiilyakiuuar Manna*, Tliird. 

50 Mrityunjay Das. Second. 

52 Annadasankar Jana, Third. 

50 Phunihhusliun Das, 'Hurd. 

57 Saphalyaehuudru Sutradhur, Third. 

11 Chit taranjau Mai, Second 

15 Siulhirchaiidru Gunya, Second. 

10 Kunjnnkumnr .Inna, Tliird. 

50 Pulmhihari Hera, Third 

01 Gaurlinn IVainanik, Third 
70 Maiioniohan Ghosh. Third 

ROLL ULU. EXT. 

1 Gunadhar Maiti, Third 
1 Alokkumar Das, Third. 

5 Auilkurnar Mandal, Third. 

12 M uiarimolian Das, Second 
I I Kalipada Das, Third 

IS Kaii;i*iikumar Amin, Second. 

21 Arupcliaiidra Saha, Second 

22 S.d.x anaia \ an Das, Second 
27) lliishikes Ghauta, Third 

20 I lareiidrauath Bhaumik, Third. 

27 Chittararijan Jana, Second 
55 Suinikiimar Guna, Tliird. 

51 A i aluiida Ghosh, Third 

55 Bishnupada Mandal, Second. 

15 Dilipkuniat Muklnypatlliyay , Third. 

•55 N i rnialchaudra Byaburta, Second 
.57 S:t<d:iii:iuda Maji, Second 

00 Siidliansukumar Ghosh, Third 

01 Asutosh Das, Third 

05 Siihhashcliandra Dalapati. Second 

01 Mrityunjay Nayak, Tliird 
08 Ni ran (an Gayen, Third. 

8 1 Santipada Biswas, Third 
85 Bijayknmar Datta, Third 

02 Itahmdranath Bhattachary.va, Third. 

KM) Smiamehandra Das, Third. 

100 DasaraLhi Basu, Third. 

100 Adwaitakurnar Manna, Third. 

115 Sapihan Ali Bhunya, Third. 

118 Saileschandra Ghoshal. Third. 

110 Madanmohan Mallik, Third. 

127 Jaharlal Das, Third. 

131 Madanmohan Samanta, Third. 

ROLL UTTAR. EXT. 

1 Sambhunath Mukhopadhyay, Second 

3 Amalkumar Basu, Third. 

5 Nimaichandra Das. Third. 

7 Anilkumar Maitra, Third 
0 Biswanath Santra, Third. 

13 Asitkumar Basak, Third. 

14 Nanigopal Saha ray. Third. 

10 Narayanchandra Mukhopadhyay, Third. 
17 Pradipkumar Sur, Third. 

23 Kalidas Majumdar, Second. 

27 Tripiireswar Bliattacharyya, Third. 

46 Sa eh indrawn a th Pan. Second. 

47 Ajitkumar Pal. Third. 

10 Badalchandra Pal, Third. 

52 Rabindranath Datta, Third. 

61 Gangadhnr Chakrabarti, Third. 

62 Susilkumar Das. Second. 

63 Anilkumar De, Second. 

65 Jagadischandra Chattopadhyay, Third. 

06 Susilkumar Maitra, Third. . 

73 Asitbaran Saha, Third. 

74 Dilipkumar Dasde, Third. 


154 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


' Part j] 


1 1 . The undermentioned candidates who were allowed 
to appear at the I. A. Examination, held in March, 1060, 
in one subject or more are declared to have passed in the 
subject or subjects noted against their names: — 

The following abbreviations have been used in this 
connection. 

A denotes Arabic 

II denotes Bengali Vernacular 

C»i denotes Commercial Arithmetic and Book- 
keeping. 

Cg denotes Commercial Geography 
E denotes English 
G denotes (Geography 
li denotes History 
Hin denotes Hindi Vernacular 
E demotes Logic 
N denotes Nepali Vernacular 
l J denotes Persian 
S denotes Sanskrit 

No., name a»nd subject 

Non-Coilegiate Students 
ROLL BANG. SP. F.N. 

I Suhitu De, II. 

ROLL BUR. SP. F.N. 

1 Mina Scngupta, L. 


ROLL CAL. SP. F.N. 

1 Bcbn Sen (Mrs Dasgupta), B 

2 Mamka Cliaudbun, B Cg. 

I Maya Gulia, II. 

it .llutrua Bbattiwlmryya, il 
7 Nira Sen, Cg. 

1.1 Santa Do. B 

1*1 Laksbint Gatigopndhyay , U 

16 Kamala Basil, B. 


ROLL HOW. SP. F.N. 

L Sipr.t Bh.Hiinilv, 11. 


ROLL KALIM. SP. F.N. 

J Pa^anii l)e\i Gurung, E N. 


ROLL MID. SP. F.N. 

Suruchi Kilikdar (Mrs. Das), B 


ROLL UTTAR. SP. F*N. 

1 Sabita Chakrabarti (Airs. Bhattacharyya), Cg 


ROLL AMTA. 8P. N. 

1 Nandadulal Chattopadhyay, b 
3 Mozammal Hossam, B. 


ROLL ARAM. 8P. N. 

2 Ramkrishna Debnath, H. 

3 Lalitmohan Bera, B 


ROLL BARI. 8Pt N. 

X Bisw^swar Majumdar, B. 


No., name and subject 

Non-Coliegiate Students 

ROLL BA8IR. 8P. N. 

2 Satvapnwsad Mandal, B. 

-1 Karim lloksha Laskar, B. 
a Madiireliandra Mandal, B. 

6 Bijaykrishnu Mandal, H. 


ROLL BER. 8P. N. 

1 Nepalchundn* Mandal, H 

6 Duryyodlian Biswas. 11. 

7 Aid Abu Nayeem, 1\ 


ROLL BI8HNU. 8P. N. 

1 Nitaicbandra Basalv, 11. 

2 Dhrubahari Nandi, B. 


ROLL BOG. 8P. N. 

J Plianindraiiiohan Bamlyopadhyay, B. 


ROLL BUR. SP. N. 

1 Nawa.1 Kislior Shukla, llin. 

2 Maiioranjun Basil, B. 

3 Anautuk iiiuar Mamlal, Cg. 

•1 Muhammad Yah.va, A 

6 Panchjvari Bay, B. 

9 Bihwunatb Sarkar, H. 


ROLL CAL. SP. N. 

I ( 'luntaharau Saha, K 
K Mil. Karam Ali, II. 

9 Nilmani A dak, B. 

10 BiremlranaHi Karan, H 

11 Dbanauiav Mamlal (llegn. No. H297 o| I9:u.«n 
16 |)|,aiiai»ja> Mamlal (llegn. No. 11922 oi PJl'JaO) 
16 Bimaicliandra Konar, B. 

19 Paiicbugopal Ghosh, B. 

20 Kasisw.w Samaildar, B 

22 Saileschamlra Bhat taeliarv \ a, B, S. 

26 Tejemli alal Ihswas, (’a. 

21* Nara.\ anchandra Goswami, B, 

2.0 Antln/nv Dinuhandliu llajra, K 

21 Tulsicliaran Mandal, H. 

22 Kiranprusad Datta, H. 

.32 Sarojranjan .Mandal, 11 

27 Srihari Saliu, B. 

2S G irindrachandra* Bhattacharyya, 1J 
29 Clot tarunjun Pattanavak, B. 

*10 Bhuhamsunkar Das, L. 


ROLL CHANDER. 8P. N. 

1 Dhirondranath Maji, B. 


ROLL CONT. 8P. N. 

1 Santikumar Maiti, H. 

3 Asokkumar Panda, B. 


ROLL DAR. 8P. N. 

1 Thakur Singh Toor, Cg. 

2 Josaphat Rai, N. 


ROLL DIA. SP. N. 

4 Gaurhari Gharami, S Ca. 

6 Ribhutibhushan Naskar, H. 

7 Manimohan Modak, H. 

8 Sunilbaran Jana, H. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


155 


I’akt JH] 


No., name and subject 

Non-Coliegiate 8tudenu 
ROLL HOW. 8P. N. 

1 Uopidchandra Chattopadhyay, 8. 

•j Sridbar Sanuyuinat, B. 


No., name and subject 

Non-colleglate Students. 
ROLL RAI. SP. N. 

2 Mil. Abu l K buyer, II. 

3 Nujihuddin Ahmed, 11. 


ROLL HUG. SP. N 

] Nuicndnikrishna Das, B. 

ROLL ITA. 8P. N. 

1 Dcbnarayan Pal, B. 

'> Sitalchandra Mukhopadhyay, H. 


ROLL RAM. SP. N. 

1 Sunnyu.sik lunar Muklmpudhya} , B. 

ROLL RANA. SP. N. 

1 Kumalukantu Munsi, B. 

3 Mukondraekandra Mandal, B. 


ROLL JAL. 8P. N. 

I .1 itemlranuth Basak, B. 

*2 Sliahiruddui Akained, B. 
,l>otiscliandra Chaki, B. 

ROLL JHAR. SP. N 

1 .Ma 1 1 os war Punigrahi, B. 


ROLL SANTI. SP. N 

1 Ardhcndubhuskan Maitra, II. 


ROLL TAM. SP. N. 

] Bakluilekandra lludait, B. 


ROLL JIA. SP. N. 

I .Mil. lshuqiie llossain, II. 


ROLL KALNA. SP. N. 

1 Tarakcswar Bairagya, 11. 

U Lakshmikanta Samamia, B. 


ROLL ULU. SP. N. 

1 Naudalul Sa manta, 11. 


III. Tlic undermentioned candidates who appeared at 
tin* l.A. Examination, held in March BKH), under section 
4C (Com purtmen till Buies), Chapter XXXI (l.A.) of the 
University Regulations are now declared to have passed the 
J.A. Examination: — 


ROLL KANDI SP. N. 

2 Sk Mims ur Ali, H. 

ROLL KAT. SP. N. 

! Mil. Nasiniildin, B. 


ROLL KHARAG. SP. N. 

I Kcdarnath Pahari, B. 


ROLL MAH I. 8P. N. 

I Maiiibhushan Das, 11. 

~ Sriskumar Maiti, II. 

’’ Mahadeb Maiti, H. 

I Subhashchandra Sahu, B. 

’ Pwlinbihari Jana. B. 


ROLL MAL. 8P. N. 

Xalinikanta Saha, Cg. 


ROLL MID. 8P. N. 

- ^nschandra Das, B. 

: Amulyaratan Chaudhuri, S. 

- ^jagendranatb Chaudhuri, B. 

' Prankrishna Kar, B. 

gifcorimohan Jana, B. 

1 Haladhar Mahanta, Cg, 


No. and name. 

Asansol Manlmala Girls* College. 
ROLL ASAN. COMP. F. 

1 Indira Ghoshnl. 


City College. 
ROLL CAL. COMP. 

1 Paresehandra Basil 


Howrah Girls’ College. 
ROLL HOW. COMP. F. 

1 Maya Das. 

2 Aparna Debi. 


Raiganj College. 

ROLL RAI. COMP. F. 

1 Archana Rudra (Mrs. Ghosh). 

Non-Coliegiate External 8tudents. 
ROLL BOL. COMP. EXT. 

1 Yusuf Ali Khan. 


ROLL CAL. COMP. EXT. 

3 Bimalondu Bhattacharyya. 

4 Prithwisehandra Biswas. 


ROLL RAM. COMP. EXT. 

ROLL NAI. SP. N. 1 Niradbaran Sarkar. 

I S h **z aT p »'» ®. 

«abmdran«th Deb, B. ROLL RANA. COMP. EXT. 

1 Sahayram Dm. 

ROLL PURULIA SP. N. 

^sirkumar Bandyopadhyay, S. 
ft rayanchandra Mukhopadhyay, B. 


1 

2 


N. C. ROY, 

Controller of Examinations, 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


[Part ft 


ir»{; 


. . f , , Vice-Chancellor and 32 Bishnupaila Pus, Roll Cal. No. 7424, Regn. No. ftjrjg.- 


SviHllCilTG wmn w *. 1(kftn 

i,i connection with the T A. Examination, 1960. 

(i) Tli.' examination ol I960 of the following candidates 
is cancelled- 

1 Kvamapuda Pal, Roll Cal. No. 54. Regn. No. 18707 

■ ol 1956-57, Batigubusi College. 

2 Sold.ei.du Nandi, Roll Cal No. (.1, Itegn. No. 18688 

ol 1956-57, Bimgabasi College. 

;» l masankar Pal, Roll Cal No. 487 Regn. No. 225fKi 
ol 1958-59, Maharaja M. C. College. 

1 Noorul Islam, Roll Cal. No. 707 Regn. No. 396115 
ol 1 958-59, Central Calcutta College. 

5 ll.reiidrn.inth Patra. Roll Cal. No. '^l. Regn. 

No. 12070 ol 1958-59, Maharaja M. C. College. 

0 llinayk.isl.na dana. Roll I Cal. No. 1271, Rogn. 

No. 29011 ol 1959-00, Vidyasagar College. 

7 ll.madri Ghosh. Roll Cal. No 1278, Regn. No. 2888 

ol 1959-60. Vidyasagar College. 

8 \t indrakuina r Raychaudhuri. Roll Cal. No. 1647, 

Regn. No. 22261 of 1958-59, Bangabas. College. 

<> Ram Gava Prasad. Poll Cal. No. 2198, Bangaha.si 
College. 


10 


II 


12 


Aniitkuniar Maitra, Roll Cal. No- ' 2 * 27 ' Rcpn * 

No. 98786 ol 1958-59, ( haruchandra (/ollego. 

Rinavkrislma Kundu Roll Cal. No. 

No. 91159 of 1958-59, Maharaja M. C. Colkgi. 

Rahimlianath Ghoshai, Roll Cnl. No 1 

No. 20916 of 1954-55, Maharaja M. G. ^oll»gt, 
Evening Depai Intent. 

i:i Aiitknnmr Sen. Roll Cnl. No. 2876 R«gn No. 23.V18 
(if 1959-6(1, Bralimaiiamla Kcsab (dmndi.i Colls g . 

)4 Ai inkuniHr Ghosh. Roll Cnl. No. MW, 

No. 81156 nl 1959-60, Hangaluisi College. 

15 R :t! K» '*I»I S ! V>n8-rrf»! ' Hi . Palira^totliidral Missmn 
College 

Hi Naravan Prasad Aplsana. Roll Cal. No 3596. Regn 
No'. 11166 of 1958-59, Si. Xaviers College. 

17 Rajk.iinar More, Roll Cal No 3597, Regn. No. 14318 

ol 1958-59, St Xavier’s College. 

18 lOnasankar Kheinka, Roll Cal. No. 9025, Regn. 

No. 14902 of 1958 59, St. Xaviers College. 

19 Giiureh.indra Das, Roll Cal- No. 9690, Regn. No. 6972 

ol 1959-60, Asutosh College. 

20 Hiinntlal Uhagwao Patel, Hoi Cal. No. 4093, Reg... 

No 7177 of 1959-60, Asutosh College. 

21 davwn tukumar ChaUopadhyay, Roll Cal. No 4318, 

Regn. No. 14989 ot 1959-60, Vidyasagar College, 

Com. Dept. 

22 Krishnagopal Basak, Roll Cal. No. 4462, ReiSU* 

No 14917 of 1959-60, Vidyasagar College. Com. 

Dept. 

23 Nanigopal Mukliopadhyay , Roll Cal. No. 5347. Regn. 
* No K 10826 of 1959-60 Surendranath College ot 

Commerce. 

04 Saurendranath Ghoshal, Roll Cal. No. »>®*4» Re S n - 
~ 4 ’ No. 10658 of 1959-60, Surendranath College ot 

Commerce. 

25 Banabihari Dasmahapatra, Roll Cal. No. 6151, 

2 Regn. No 8615 of 1959-60, Surendranath College of 

Commerce. 

26 Nikhilranjan Rav, Roll Cal. No 6296 Regn 

26 " No 1934 of 1957-58, Surendranath College of 

Commerce. 

27 Homan! akumar Pnrkait, Roll Cal. No. 6278 Re K n 

No. 10956 of 1959-60, Surendranath College ot 
Commerce. 

28 Praphullaranjan Das, Poll Cal. 6836, R-egn. 

No 22482 of 1959-60, City College. 

29 Asokkumar Datta, R oil Cal. No. 6924, Regn. 

No. 10054 of 1959-60, City College. 

30 Sanjibkumar Chattopadhyay, Roll Cal No. 7033, 

Regn;) No. 10032 of i959-60, City College. 

31 Ranjitkilmar Sil, Roll Cal &>. 7125, Regn. 

No 22068 of 1959-60, City College. 


32 

33 
31 

35 

36 

27 

38 

39 

40 

11 

12 

• 13 


15 


16 


Madhabchnmlra Basu, Roll Cal. No. 7429, \{^ n 

No. 12689 of 1958-59, City College. 

Suk umar De, Roll C’al. No. 8239, Regn. No .Hi pi* 
ot 1958-59, City College, Commerce Dept. 

Wasim Pddin, Roll Cal. No. 8504, Regn. N.» ^ 
ol 1958-59, City College, Commerce Dept. 

S Kalvana Sundaram, Roll Cal. No. 8717, It,.-.,, 
’.No. 2( Hj5 of 1958-59. City College, Comment l) ( .,, t 

Anihanian Saha, Roll Cal. No. ^77'). 

No. 18098 of J 958-59, City College, l omnn« ru . 
Dept., South Calcutta Evening Seetion. 

Oinprakash Maheswari, Roll Cal. No. 9397, Itegn 
Nc 22 3( >4 ol 1957-58, Vidyasagar College, Com- 
merce Dept. 

Akrani Ah Shaikh. Roll Cal. No. 9456, R L .rr n 
No. 13417 of 1959-60, City College. 

Pratima Sinha, Roll C’al E. No. 2878 lC<r n 

No. 38681 of 1958-59, Vidyasagar College i„ r 
Women. 

Gita Nath. Roll Cal. I-'. No. 3082, Roan Nu 212'SI 
ol 1 958-59, Diriahandhu Andrews College. 

Sihila Gatigopadhvav, Roll C’al. E.N. No I, "Hi? 
Regn. No. 28217 ol 1958-59. 

Madanniohan Saiuanta, Roll Cal. N. No 1. Ilegn 
No 33391 ol 1958-59, 92 Nask.u r.uu I him' 

Ghusuri, llowrah. 

(Biolam Husain Mohammed Amolia. Roll C.il Km 

No. 217, Regn. No. 16179 ol 195< ->S, .» \ mj .iWijU 
Lane, ( ’aleutta-1. 

G.inesehandra Sasmal. Hull Cal. I'M. No. 1012 H'-i; 
No :uc»c »5 ol 1958 - 59 , 108 kumarparn Lane, < .«l- 
enlia- 31 , Vill. Birendi anagnr, P.O. Sinhet, 9 kI 
Howrah 

E\l No lit^i 

Meiflecai l *:i rn* 


48 


49 


50 


5.3 


54 


56 


57 


58 


59 


Anilknshna Talukdar, Roll Cal. 

Itegn No. 3622 ol 1958-59, 4 

Bum I >iiin Cab wt.ta.-2K. 

Kuinares Sin Roll Cal. Ext . No J ViV AlV-lmr* 
No. 2311 ol 1955-56, Asutosh ( ollege, i/I 5 Aluliai, 

Dutta Street, Calcutta-23. 

(loiprakiish It.igaria, Poll Cnl.l'Xt No I'-' 11 

No. 7! I2. r > of til*. 11/1) Hamak.iulii J""» 

Street, C’aleutta-3. 

.lugiilkumar Bamlyopadhyay Hoi] I Cal I|aI . No f ® 
Ri'Uii. No. 9633 ol 1958-7.9, 41/16A C hain 
Tolly gunge, Caleutta-33. 

Sukumar Bandvopadhyay , Roll Cal. Ext. No 
Regn. No. 15028 ol 1958-59, 3A Raja B .- ^ { 

Road, Calcutta-26, Vill. and P.O- Ann*, 
llughli. 

Hi, mi Sarkar, Roll Cal. Ext. No. 1438, llj^ 

No. 29073 (it 1! >50-7.7, 8/3 Shib Krishna 9' 1 ' 
Lane, Calcutta-1 1 . 

Amulyakumar Sen, Roll Cal. Kxt. No. -C" 

No. 11093 ot 1956-57 , 86A JaCin Has 
Oalcutta-29. 

Sisiikumar Mitra. Roll Cal. Ext No 2^ 1! 
No. 8216 of 1947-48, 59B Baghbazar Stiset. 
cutta-3. 

Gobinda Datta, Roll Cal Ext No. 2200' 

No. 8638 of 1957-58. 110 Adhar Das Ko.»> 
Budge, Dust. 24-Parganas. 

Sunilkumar Chnkraharti. Roll Cal. ®. x *. 

Been. No. 25121 of ia54-55, 3 Khudiram 

Road. P.O. Nahagram, Dist. Hughli. ^ 

Ranptkumar Sengupta, Roll Cal. v,m<„,u'h. l’° 
Regn. No. 8535 of 1959-60, 4/23 Viia.'O' 1 ’ 
Jadavpur, Calcutta-32. 

Adhii chandra Das, Roll Cal. h aJ1,? 

No. 357(H) of 1957-58, 29E Anthony 
Calcutta-9. 

Nirinalchandra Chakraharti, Roll Cab ^.^', an arfly a3 
Regn. No. 9531 of 1956-57, 3.» D* 1 * 

Tagore Street, Calcutta-6. 

Manasranjan Basu, Roll Cal. ^2o n dra CJ* 1 ^ 

No. 5509 of 1958-59, 43 Mabendraibai 
Road, Ghughudanga, Calcutta -30. 



>Al<T 


1B1 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


157 


i>i» 


M 


, tlkumar Chakrabarti, Roll Cal. Ext. No. 2932, 
^ HeiiTi No. &39 of 1966-57, Vill. and P.0. Jyangra, 
Mil Rajarbat, Dist. 24-Parganas. 

lUniDondranath Gliosh. Roll Cal. Ext. No. 3008, 
\o 25026 of 1&57-58, 127/1/ A Rowhaaar Street, 
Caicutta-12, Vill. Syamgrain, P.O. Harinkhola, 
p'ist. Hughli. 


p-.iesohandra Gliosh, Roll Cnl. Ext. No. 3050, Regn. 
\(» 9810 of 1958-59, 63A Kalighat Road. Caleutta- 
Vill. Riya, P.O. Bhurkundn, Dist. Hughli. 


h.t 


Id 


^ , tl1 it kumar Chakrabarti, Roll Cal. Ext. No. 3062, 
■» .jr,,. No. 8338 of 1958 59, 566 Madhusudan Raner- 
|( , t . Road, P.O. Omn Ouiii, Rirati, Caleutta-28. 


T-ir»kiinth Chattopadhyay. Roll Cal. 
II, *g,i . No. 6249 ot 1958-59, 2C S. 
j >u m Hum, Calcutta-28. 


Ext. No. 3069. 
K. Dob Road, 


- I jahar. Roll Cal. Ext. No. 3070, Regn. 

No ‘29290 of 1956-57, 6 Ranishankar Ray Lane. 
1 (ulcutta-ll, V ill . Berugram, P.O. Nanoor, Dist. 
Birhhmn. 


i Mmisilkimiar Ghosh, Roll Cnl. F^xt. No. 3076, Regn. 
No 35807 of 1958-59, Room No. 9, 36 Amherst 
Street, Calcutta-9, C/o. Late Jogesehandra Gliosh, 
\ ill. lialurgdla, P.O. Sirajganj, Dist. Pabna. 


- S1 i ;l |{am Shaw, Roll Cal. Ext. No. 3613, Regn. 
1 \ 0 H608 of 1959-60, 1 School Row, Calcutta-25, 

Vill. Anihari, P.O. Nimir, Dist. Monghyr. 


■ s Pi .ihhatkumai Bandyopadhyay, Roll 
No 3903, Regn. No. 5516 ot 1954-55, 
IoIIji Street, C ■nlcutta-5. 


Cal. 

32/111 


Ext. 

Aliiri- 


ci /hniuh akiimar Sil, Roll Cal. Ext. No. 4082, Regn. 
No 16830 of 1954-55, 291) Ilirpara Lane, Calcutta- 


d Dilipkiuuar Sen. Roll Cal. Ext. No. 4759, Regn. 
No. 8225 of 1958-59, 16 Creek Row, Calcutta-14. 

■| Bolieiidrabiiav Dasgupta, Roll Cal. Ext. No. 4827, 

Regn No. ‘33233 of 1959-60, C/o. Shri ,T. M . Das- 
iriijitji. Room No. 12, Royal Barrack, Rum Dum 
Cant . Calcut ta-28. 

J Piilanchandi ;» Naskar. Roll Cal. Ext. No. 5398, 

Regn. No 26527 of 1957-58, C/o. Shri Rajaniknnta 
Naskar, Vill. <V P.O. Garia, Dist. 24-Parganas. 

7. Annkulehandra Ghosh, Roll Cal. Ext. No. 5501, 

Regn No. 5960 of 1918-49, Vill. A' P.O. Kalikapm , 
\ ia Calcut la-32, Dist. 21-Parganas. 

H llimalcndu Chakrabarti, Roll C'al. Ext. No. 554G, 

Regn No. 3757 5 of 1959-60, 61/1 Suren Karkar 
Road, Calcutta-10. 

"•’> S.iioikumar Sengupta, Roll C’al. Ext. No. 5551, 

Regn No 39478 ot 1959-60, 78 Nilratan Mtikhei 
|ee Road, Sibpur, Howrah. 

Nimaiki islma Ghosh, Roll Cal. Ext. No. 5646, Regn. 
No , Signal Section, No. 10, Wing, A.K., 

•loihnt C/o. Shri Gaurhari Hal t a, Ridlianpalli, 
IM> Madtiyaiugram, Dist. 21-Parganas. 

Raiendi apmsad Ray, Roll. Cal. Ext. No. 5761, 
Regn No 14542 ol 1951-55, Vill. and P.O. Raja 

• ampin, Dist. Alidriapur. 

8.mmyemui Bhattacharyya, Roll Agar. No. 84, Regn. 
No. 26985 of 1 959-60, Mnharapi Bn Hikram Col- 
lege 

1 Lwarolmndra Debnatli, Roll Agar. No. 127, Regn. 
-No. 27112 of 1959-60 Agartala M.R.B. College. 

I*mam;manda Bandyopadhyay, Roll Asan. No. 122, 
•h'gn No. 35515* of 1957-58, Banwarilal Bhalotia 
College, Asansol. 

1 Hili.n ilnj .Jalan, Roll Asan. No. 1<>2, H.'nn. No. 1823:1 
<>t 1957-58, Banwarilal Bhalotia College, Asansol. 

Bihpkimiar Basil, Roll Bagnan No. 70, Regn. 
* N °- 20190 of 1958-69, Bagnan College. 

Alaiul Mabud Mallick, Roll Bagnan No. 134, Regn. 
Ao. 5511 of 1959-60, Bagnan College. 

•higathschandra Santra, Roll Bagnan No. 140, Regn. 
i><0 * 20387 of 1958-59, Bagnan College. 

Sk Sainuddin, Roll Bagnan No. 205, Regn. 
Ao. 20374 of 1958-59, Bagnan College. 

S yamalkrishna Ghosh, Roil Bagnan Ext. No. 9, Regn. 
No * 18134 of 1954^55. 


87 

88 

89 


90 


91 

92 

93 

94 


95 


96 

97 

98 

99 
100 
101 
102 
103 
101 

105 

106 

107 

108 

109 
1 10 
111 
1 12 
113 
111 

115 

116 
117 


Swades Gulia. Roll Balur, No. 86, Regn. No. 23181 
of 1959-60, Balurghat College. 

Gopcndrakrishna Gulia, Roll Balur. Ext. No. 85. 
Regn. No. 40588 of 1959-60, Vill. Chakvrigu, P.O. 
Balurghat, Dist. West Dina j pur. 

Ainiyakanti Ray, Roll Bank. Ext. No. 30, Regn. 
No. 9413 of 1959-60, “Sripati Nihas”, Rampur, 
P.O. and Dist. Bankura. 

Synmaprasad M ukhop.idhyuy , Roll Bar. No. 33, 
Regn. 25303 ot 1957-58, Siireudi uuath College, 
Calcutta. 

Jyotirmayi Raychaudhuri , Roll Run. E. No. 148, 
Regn. No 20385 ol 1957-58, \ r ivckananda Col- 
lege. 

Rebendranath Ghosh, Roll Barrack. No. 36, Regn. 
No. 28237 ol 1959-60, Rastraguru Sin cudruuut h 
College. 

Nikhilkiimnr Saha, Roll Barrack. No. 56, Regn. 
No. 28257 of 1959-60, Rastraguru Surendraiuith 
College. 

Chunilal ( 'hakrahart i. Roll Barrack. No. 120, Regn. 
No. 35071 ot 1957-58, Rastraguru Surcndrunuth 
College. 

Arat.i Ghosh, Roll Barrack. F. No. 171, Regn. 
No. 35107 ot 1957-58, Barrackpoie Rastraguru 
Surendranath College. 

Aid. Ahsar All, Roll Basil*. No. 22, Regn. No. 29743 
of 1959-60, Basirhat College. 

Taludur Rahman. Roll Basil*. No. 190, Regn. 

No. 38861 of 1959-60, Basirhat C’ollege. 

Shaikh Way, oh Ali, Roll Basil*. No. 269, Regn. 

No. 29778 ol 1959-60, Basirhat College. 

Aid. Romjan All Alondal, Roll Basil* No. 370, Regn. 
No. 3 4231 oi 1958-59, Basirhat College. 

Alanoratijaii Das, Roll Basil*. No. 406, Itcgn. 

No. 29638 ol 1959-60, Basirhat College. 

Ahdur Hahaman, Roll Birh. No. 87, Regn. No. 4809 
ot 1959-60, Sui i Vid.vasagai College*. 

Moliaminod Ilossain, Roll Birh. No. 148, Regn. 

No. 28022 of 1957-58, Suri Vidyasagar (College. 

Rnnadaprusad Ghosh, Roll Bur. No. 46, Regn. 
No. 76>l ol 1959-60, Bimlwan Raj College. 

Asokkumar Saikar, Roll Bur No 110, Itcgn. 

No. 3391 ol 1958 59, Butdwaii Raj College. 

Nut ul Ahsar Choudhury, Roll Bur. No. 283, Regn. 
No. 7585 ot 1959-60, Burduau Raj College. 

Santana Chnudhim. Roll Bur. F’.N. No. 37, Regn. 
No. 30332 ol 1956-57, noil-col leguvte student, C/o. 
Shri Alanoranjnn Chaudliiin , Kalita Road, P.O. 
and Dist. Buidwan. 


Ronhihari Ghosh, Roll Bur. Ext.. No. 156, Regn. 
No 9671 ol 1959-69, C/o Shri Saiuhhiinat h Ghosh, 
B.L., Khoshhagau, Bimlwan, C/o. Shri Gnstlia- 
hihari Ghosh, 11, Barahagau Lane, P O. Seram- 
p u i , I list, i luglili. 

Dipahrani Band> opadh,\ ay , Roll Chandcr. F\ No. 90, 
Itcgn. No. 36065 ot 1957-58, Chundci tiagore Cok 

Prahii'kumar Das, Roll (’out, No. 100, Regn. 
No. 38175 ol 1959-60, Contai P. K. College. 


.1 iteiidrunutli Pal, Roll Coo. No. 5, Regn. No. 7101 
oi 1959 60, Cooeh Rebar Victoria College. 

Anilkmnar Pal, Roll Coo. No. 6, Regn. No. 7102 of 
1959-60, Cooeh Behai* Victoria College. 


Ahdur Rahman, Roll Coo No. 50, Regn. No. <268 
ot 1959-60, Cooeh Beliar Virtona College. 


Paresehandra Nag, Roll Coo. No. 116, Regn. 
No. 7391 of 1959-60, Cooeh Behai Victoria College. 


Binapaui Ray, Roll Coo. E. No. 44, Itegn. No. 28581 
oi 1957-58, Cooeh Behai* Victoria College. 

Anilkumnr Das, Roll Dia. Ext. No. 1^5, Regn. 
No. 2342 of 1959-60, Cttarliazipur (Naiyn Para;, 
P.O. Diamond llurboiir, Dist. 24-Parganas. 


Jitendranuth Saha, Roll P* n * J*o. 60, 
No. 18947 of 1958-59, Dinhata College. 


Regn. 


Niharendu Nath, Roll Garb. No. 57, 
No. 3 5385 of 1957-58, Garhbeta College. 


Regn 



158 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


I Part ^ 


118 

no 

120 

121 

] 22 

120 

124 

125 

120 

127 


Rajiblorhan Satupathi, Roll Garh. No. 108, Regn. 
No. 17025 ol 1050-00, Garh beta College. 

Pasupati Saiminta, Roll Garb. N. No. 10, Regn. 
No. 13800 ol 1050-51, n on-ool legiate student, V ill. 
ami 1M). (Joaltore, Dist. Midnapore. 


Niinaiehandra Re., Roll Garh. 
No. 104 8)1 ol 1054-55, Vill. 
Dist. M ulna pore. 


Kxt . No. 31, Regn. 
and P.O. Garh bet a. 


At, nr Rahman, Roll Gob. No. 55, Regn. No. 30570 
ol 1050-00, Golmrdanga Hindu College. 


Niliarranpin Datta, Roll Gob. hvt. No. 13, Regn. 
No. 25171 ol 1050 00, .300 Kataganj Govt. Colony, 
|\<). Kataganj (l>ist. Nadia). 


Muhammad Sayeed, Roll Detain. N. No. 11, Regn. 
No. 5278 ol 1047-18, Vill. Rarashija, P I). .Tiwe, 
Gist. Hirhhurn. 

Anuntakumar Mupuwlnr, Roll Mow. No. 120, Regn. 
No. 1122.3 ol 1050-00, Shibpur Dinobundhoo Col- 
lege. 

Anilkumar Das. Roll How. No. 130 Regn. 
No. L 1187 oi 1050-00, Shibporn Dmobundhoo Col- 
lege. 


Samaremlra Ra veliaudhii, i. Roll How. No. 1.11, Regn. 
No. 11240 ol 1050-00, Sbibporc* Dinobundhoo Col- 
lege. 

Sandipkanta Rhanmik, Roll Jal. No 21, Regn. 
No. 17)177 ol 1050-00, .lalpaiguri A. C. College. 


128 Dliirendruehnndra Sarkar, Roll Jal. No. 11.3, Regn. 
No. 17000 ol 1050-00, .1 alpaigm i A. C. College. 


120 ITmapada Senmajumdar, Roll 3al. No 133, Regn. 
No. 3.3070 ol 1057 58, .lalpaiguri A C. College. 

130 Rrasantalal Ray, Roll Jal. No 102, Regn. No. 28-175 
ol 1050-57, .lalpaiguri A. C. College. 


1.31 Tapas Cha krabarti. Roll Jal. No. 250, Regn. 
No. 17112 ol 1050-00, .lalpaiguri A. C. College. 


132 

1.3.3 


134 


135 


130 


1.37 


138 


139 


110 


111 


142 


143 

144 


Sunilran pm Sat War, Roll Jal. No. 200, Regn. 
No. 17008 ol 1050 00, .lalpaiguri A. C. College. 

Kumar Svamalendra Debraikut, Roll Jal. Kxt. 
No. 73,' Regn. No 28-110 ol 1950-57, Raikutpara , 
Jalpuiguri. 

\ nutabba Sarkar, Roll Jnngi. No. 135, Regn. 
No. .37.321 ol 1057-58, Jangipui College'. 

Asokkiimai Das. Roll .Tangi. No. 1 10, Regn . 
No. .38.3 ol 1050-00, Jangipui* College. 

Apt kumai Rav, Roll Jnngi No. 104, Regn. No. 400 
ol 1050-00, Jangipiir ( ’ollege. 

Muza Md Giastiddin, Roll Jangi. No. 107, Regn. 
No. 480 ol 1050-00, Jangipui* College. 

Asokkumar Cliattopadhyay, Roll Jangi. Kxt. No. 11, 
Regn. No. 3100 ol 1951-52, P.O. Raghnnathganj, 
Dist. M urshidabad. 

Prangopal Goswami, Roll Kaila. No. 20, Regn. 
No. 11200 of 1050-00, Ramkrishna Mahavidyalaya. 

Raikiunar Nath, Roll Kaila. Kxt. No. 37, Regn. 
No. 41742 ol 1050-00, Vill. and P.O. Radhapui , 
Dliiirinaiiagar, Tripura. 


Rinodkunta Smha, Roll Kaila. Kxt. No. 41, Regn. 
No 17000 of 1057-58, Vill. and P.O. Halhuli. 
Tripura (Dist.), Vill. Jit urdigliirpar, P.O. Paintur 
Haz»r, Kaila shahnr, Tripura. 


Nripendranath Gh*J», Roll Kalna. No. 23, Regn. 
No. 15517 of 1050-00, Kalna College. 


Jaydeb Majlit, Roll Kalna No. 50, Regn. No. 15551 
of 1959-60, Ralna College. 

Durgagati Ray, Roll Kalna No. 71, Rogn. No. 15618 
of 1959-60, Kalna College. 


115 


140 


147 


148 


140 


150 

151 

152 


15)1 

151 

155 

150 

157 

158 

150 

100 

101 

102 

10)1 

104 

105 


100 


107 


108 


100 

170 


Nripendrachandra Das, Roll Kalna No. 103, 
No. 2(X)G9 of 1058-50, Kalna College. 


Re K n 


Jitendranath Handy opadhy ay, Roll Kalna N. N 0 y 
Regn. No. 15503 ot 1051-52, non-collegiate h U( | ‘ 
Toralpur K.P. School, P.O. Harwa AI ah«*sV 
Hurdwan, Vill. and P.O. Manteswai, D )v 
Hurd wan. 

Murarimohan Sarkar, Roll Kalna Kxt. No. 7. 

No. 20171 of 1958-59, Lakshmanpai n kal?,,, 
Hurdwan. 

Krishnaehandra Mukhopadhyay, Roll Kalna | At 
No. 10, Regn. No. 11840 ot 1057-58, MoluMi,<,i ( j| ln . 
tala, Kalua, Hurdwan. 

Prat u Ik um a r Gon, Roll Kalna Ext. No. 21). 

No. 3)1800 of 1058-50, Vill. ami P.O. lk,^ 
Hurdwan. 

Biialibhusan Pal, Roll Kalna Ext. No. 52. |{^ 
No. 33240 of 1950-00, Vill. Kamra, P.O. Kumuh. 
gram, Dist. Hurdwan. 

Gaurinohan Ppadhyay, Roll Kalna. Kxt. .‘)j 
Regn. No. 11880 ol 1057-58. Vill. Pjpli, JMi 
Sashadanga, Dist. 24-Parganas. 

Haidyanatli Ghosh, Roll Kalna Kxt. No. 05 Ro-r. 
No. 10154 ol 105-1-55, Vill. Gobindabnti P u 
Goda Annada, Dist. Hurdwan. 


M.uiikehamlra Sadlmkhan, Roll Kalna Kxt. .\i> 01 
Regn. No. 11800 o| 1950-57, Vill Patilpai.i I'd 
Haid^apm. Dist. Hurdwan. 

Akshaykumar Chamlhuri, Roll Kat. No 10 ID-gi. 
No. .3177)1 ol 1058-50, Katwa (’ollege. 

Hasaiitakumar Glial ak. Roll Kat No is 
No. .31855 ol 1958-59, Katwa (’ollege. 

Similrait jail Das, Roll Kat. No. 83, Regn. No 41311 
ol 1058-50, Katwa College. 


Kasiitalh Hhatt.aeharyya, Roll Kat. No. 101, Regn 
No. .317)11 of 1058-50, Katwa College. 


A rimntianda Thakur, Roll Kat. No. 200. lb til 
Rogn. No. 32015 ol 1058-50, Katwa College 

Nihaikninar Cliakrahai ti. Roll Kal. Kxt N" •*>- 
Regn. No. 17510 ol 1057-58, Vill. Atkul.i J " 
Sarnohati, Dist. Murshidnhad. 


Pannalal Saikar, Roll Kharag. No 0* Hr'ti 
No. 28830 ol 1959-00, Kharagpur College. 

H iinatisukumai Hliakat, Roll Khaiag. Nr 0-' 

No. 28717 oi 1058 50, Kharagpur College 

Dilipkiunar llamlv opadhyay , Roll Kn No 

Regn. No. 308.30 ol 1057-58, Krishnagai ( 

Paiikajkumar Saha, Roll Kri. No. 1-1*. 

No. 2(Hk>4 oi 1957-58, Knshnagar College. 

Prahirkuuiar Datta, Roll Kri. Ext. No. 

No. 12880 oi 1057-58, Vill. Suravisihan » 
Hadkulla, Dist. Nadia. 


Syamalkanti Maitra, Roll Kri. Ext. No. 
‘No. 30080 of 1057-58, Golap Klmn 
Knshnagar, Dist. Nadia. 


110. Regn 
Lam, l ,n 


tana jit kuniar Sanyal, Roll Kn. Ext. No- 1 
No. 30132 of 1050-00, C/o Shi i Nagen ■» 
Sandal, Goari Sastitala Para, P.O. 


Asinikumar Maulik, Roll Kri. Kxt. No. IK* 
No. 30105 ol 1050-00 , 21 New* Road, 1 n 
nagar, Dist. Nadia. 


Regn 

Knsli 


A ma resell a ml ra llis was, Roll Kri. Kxt. i( n p, 
Regn. No. 11000 of 1^54-55, Vill. -J^ 1 * 
Mahutpur, Gist. Nadia. 


S udhan.su sek bar 
No. 14830 ot 


Giri, Roll Mahi. No. % >1 , 
la^O-OO, Mahishadal Raj Col,a 


v , f r ppgD. 

Anilchandra Sinha, Roll Mai, No. ** J ' 

No. 18165 of 1969-60, Malda College. 



Part IJ 3 ] 


THE CAI/CUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


159 


-"T- 

171 

Sanatan Chaudhuri, Roll Mai. No. 58, 
No. 15699 of 1956-57, Malda College. 

Regn. 

172 

Sripati Goswami, Roll Mai. No. 124, 
y 0i 18804 of 1959-00, Malda College. 

Regn. 

174 

lagati Narayan Ram, Roll Mai. No. 218, 
\\n. 2047 of 1 957-58, Malda (’ollege. 

Regn. 

171 

1 iloiidrakuinar Saha, Roll Alai. Ext. No. 54 
* No. , Vill. La la para, P.O. Bui Bui 

, Regn. 
Cimndi, 


|)i»t. Malda. 


Rabindranath Has, Roll Mai. Ext. No. 104, Regn. 

' No. 9547 ol 1954-51, Vill. and 1M). Shcrsahi, 

l)i*t Malda. 

i"(, Iknmdranatli Saha, Roll Mid. No. 44, Regn. 

‘ No. 20894 oi 1 959-00, Midnapore College. 

Snhalchaiidra Chakrabarti, Roll Mid. Ext. No. 142, 
n |{ ( ^n. No. 22014 of 1951-55, Ballavpur, Midna- 

pore. 

I7S Kashimali Chaudhury, Roll Naha. No. 84, ltogn. 

No. 27777 of 19.59-00, Nabadwip Vidyasagur 
College. 

17!) Amiyaprakas Sarkar, Roll Naha. No. 118, Regn. 

No. , Nabadwip Vidyasagur Colhge 


Mi Madlmsudan Mukhopadhyuy , Roll Naba. Ext. 
\o. 42, Regn. No. .41780 of 1959-00, C/o. Shri 
\ C. M ukherj jee, Al.E.M. Disision, D.V.C., P.O. 
:md l)ist. I luzarihagh, Riliar, C/o. Sliri N. C. 
M uklieriee, Teglianpai a, P.O. Nabadwip. Dist. 
Nadia 


h i Rabindranath Chakruhui 1 1. Roll Nai. No 24, Regn. 
No 24884 oi 1959 00, Rishi liankimrhandi a Col 

lege. 

hi.’ Rancndia Guharaju, Roll Nai. No. 144, Regn. 
No 21040 ol 1959-00, Rishi Buiikimehniidru Col 

logo. 


1 . 8 , lxanailal Kai Roll Nai. No. DIK, Regn. No. 21048 
oi 1959 00, Risbi Rankiuadiandra College. 

hi lb .ililial kmuar Majumdar, Roll Nai. No. 215, Regn. 
No 2171 ol 1958-59, Risbi Itunkiniehundru Col- 
lege. 


I s » Adhn kuinar Riswas. Roll Nai. No. 211, Ih'nn. 
No 44142 ol 19.58-59, Risbi Rankimobamlra Col- 
lege. 


I v( » ihmalendu Rasu, Roll Nai. No. 470, Regn. No. 2418 
nl 1958-59, Risbi Jiankiimdiandra College. 


195 Satyanarayan Brahma, Roll Nai. No. 641, Regn. 
No. 19990 of 197»9-60, Risbi Bankimchandra 

College. 

190 Biinalkiiniar Biswas, Roll Nai. No. 642, Regn. 

No. 19975 ol 19.59-60, Risbi Baiikimcliandi a 

College. 

197 N ugetidrunut b Majumdar, Roll Nai. No. 071, Regn. 

No. 2177 of 1958-59, Risbi Bank mu-haiidra Col- 
lege. 

198 lliswuiiuth Prasad Tewury, Roll Nai. Ext. No. 21. 

Regn. No. 1408 ol 1957-58, Rislu llankimehandra 
Road, I’.O. Naihati. Dist. 2 l-Pui guuas, Vill 
Alierunka Lilian, P.O. Suebi, Dist. Rae Bareli 
(P.P.). 

199 Nirnialknmar Bhattueharyyn, Roll Nai. Ext. No. 63, 

Regn. No. 11200 ol 1957-58, Vill. and l\t>. .latia, 
Dist. 24-Parganas. 

200 Girindrnehandra Debnath, Roll Rni. Ext. No. 29, 

Regn. No. 24471 of 1959-00, C/o. Shri Sliynma- 
ehnran Debnath, Vill. Tulsitala (near Janerdon 
Tank), P.O. Raiganj, Dist. West, Dinajpur. 

201 Bipiykiiinur Ray, Roll Rain. No. 89, Regn. 

No. 28781 of 1958-59, Kampurhat College. 


202 Ainab'saiianda Pramanik, Roll Ram. No. 102, Regn. 
No. 40140 ol 1959-60, Rampnrhat College. 


204 Sisirkmnat Biswas, Roll Rain. No 140, Regn. 

No. 29900 oi 1959-00, Rampwrbat College. 

201 Kbandeker AIiuiihmI Rezu. Roll Ram. Ext. No. 40, 
Regn. No. 15194 oi 1957-58, Vill. and JVC Mar- 
grain, Dist. Birbhinn. 


205 Krisbnakinkar Mandal, Roll Ram. Exl No. 48, 
Regn. No. 7271 ol 1954-55, Vill. Chliatmut. P.O. 
Khurhona, via Rampnrhat, Dist. liirbbiim. 


200 Si la Datla, Roll Risli. E. No. 29, Regn. No. 16296 
ol 1959-60, Rislira Bidbatiebandra College. 


207 

( Mill 1 aranian Datta, Roll Santi. 
No. 11193 oi 1959-60, Santipiir 

No. 

College 

1, 

Regn. 

2< IS 

Nazir Ahmed, Roll Santi No. 14, 
ol 1957-58. SautipUl (’ollege. 

Reg,, 

No. 

20925 

2( 19 

A mil aliha Sengupta, Roll Santi. 
No. 11519 ol 1959-60, Santipiir 

No. 

College 

52, 

ILgn 


1<s < ll.isudharanjnii Chakrabarti, Roll Nai. No. 452, 
Regn. No. RU) ol 1 9.5 7 -.58, Rishi Bankimeliamlra 

College. 


210 Ni ipeiidranath Ghosh, Roll Santi. Exl. No. 24, 
Regn No. 4069 ol 1 955-541, Nasrapara, Sarnia 
lbira Lane, P.O. Rnnughat, Dist. Nadia. 


^ >s ^niiilkiimai Datta, Roll Nai. No. 459, Regn. 
No 07 L2 of 1958-59. Rishi Bankimehandi a Col- 
logo. 


211 Dlirubaknmar Samanta, Roll Syam. No. 49, Regn. 
No. 49884 oi 19.58-59, Syainsnndar College. 


s '* s ‘'tvendiakuinar Majumdar, R’oll Nai. No. 482, 
Regn. No. 358 oi 1957-58, Rislu Bankimehatidra 
< 'allege. 

* M| -M.oiiklal (loswiiiru, Roll Nai. No. 492, Regn. 
No 6532 oi 1958-59. Rislu Bankimchandra Col- 
lege. 


212 llarisa<lban Daskarmakai , Roll Syam. No. 56, Regn. 
No. 49786 ol 1958-59, Syainsnndar College. 

214 Arpmkumar r Jana, Roll Tam. No. 47, Regn. 

No. 15800 oi 1959-60, Tamralipta Mahuvidya- 
laya. 


* 'I Ihbpkiimar Acharyya, Roll Nai. No. 522, Regn. 

N(j. 24777 oi 1959-60, Risbi Rankimeliandra Col- 
lege. 

1,J '8*i k ii in;! r Haidar, Roll Nai. No. 562, Regn. 

No. (>750 o| 1958-59, Risbi Bankimchandra Col- 
lege. 

I £* 

^ Rabindranath Mukhopadliyay, Roll Nai. No. 613, 

Regn. No. 20186 of 1959-60, Rishi Bankiiu- 
% ^mndra College. * * 

pj , “ m * 

’^‘"“Prasad Das, Ro|l* Nai, No. 635, Regn. 

No. 2tXK>l of 1959-flu 7 Rishi Bankimchandra Col- 
lege. 


214 Dwi tend rain* th De, Roll Tarn. Ext. No. 60, Regn. 

No. 6287 ol 19,58-59. Settlement Olhee, P.O. 
Mahisadal ( M idnapore) , “.limn lihahan", Milan 
Park, P.O. Cana, Dist. 21-Paiganas. 

215 Shyani Sunder Goenka, Roll Cal. No. 7767, Regn. 

No. 24027 ol 1957-58 ORy College. 


216 


Ram Prasad Drolia, Roll Cal.* No. 7771, Regn. 
No. 23547 of 1957-58, City X)# liege. * '' 


217 Shiw Kumar Dalmia, Roll Cal. No. 7773, Regn. 
No. 21595 of 1958-59, City College. 



1(50 


THE CALCUTTA. GAZETTE,- MARCH 29, 1962 


[Part ib 


(ii) The examination of 19G0 of the following candidates 
is cancelled and they are debarred from appearing at any 
examination ot this University in 1961: — 

1 Asimkumar Sain, Roll Cal. No. 3342, Regn. 

No. 34399 of 1958-59, St. Paul’s Cathedral Mis- 
sion College. 

2 Timirranjan Das, Roll Cal. No. 3689, Regn. No. 6989 

ol 1959-60, Asutosh (College. 

3 Samiram Desikdar, Poll Cal. No. 7415, Rcgn. 

No. 20414 ol 1956-57, City College, (’ommeree 
Dept. 

4 Sukomalchandra Rir, Roll Cal. Kxt. No. 3032, Regn. 

No. 4481 o| 1952-53, 10/32 Netaji Nagar, P.O. 
Regent Park, Caleutta-40. 

5 Nirmalkumar l)e, Roll Cal. Kxt. No. 3903, Regn. 

No. 24854 of 1 950-57 , 156 Upper (Circular Road, 
lllock No. K/16, Caleutta-6. 

6 dyotirmay Rath, Roll Cal. Kxt. No. 5687, Regn 

'No. 34770 of 1958-59, C/o. Shri D. P. Clmkrabartu 
112/ 4 Rlv Qrs., P.O. Chakradharpur, Dist. 
Singhhhum (Bihar), Vill. and P.O. Maitana, 
Dist. Midnapore. 

7 Haripada De, Roll Bagnan No. 197, Regn. No. 20237 

ol 1958-59, Bagnan College. 

8 Narayanehandra Chaltopadhyay, Roll Bank. No. 84, 

Regn. No. :18342 oi 1958-59, Bankura Christian 
College. 

9 Maheswar Misra, Roll Bank. Ext. No. 48, Regn. 

No. , Olliee of the Superintendent of Agri- 

culture, P.O. and Dist. Bankura, Vill. and P.O. 
Dehari Anamlporo, Balasore (Orissa). 

10 Subhashkumar Chakraharti, Roll Barrack. No. 135, 

Regn. No. 28217 of 1959-60, Rarrackpore Rastra- 
guru Surendranath College. 

11 Md. Ayuh Ali Sardar, Roll Basil*. No. 49, Regn. 

No. 38860 ol 1959-60, Basirhat College. 


12 Gnurdas Mukhopadhvny, Roll Basil*. No. 160, Regn. 
No. 15070 of 1959-60, Basirhat College. 


13 Hharati Mukhopadhyay, 111, Poll How. F. No. 245, 

Regn. No. 20075 oi 1957-58, llowrah Girls’ College. 

14 Tusharkanti Maitra, Roll Hug. Ext. No. 52, Regn. 

No. 29692 of 1958-59, 37 Malapara Road, P.O. 
(lari fa, Dist. 24-Parganas. 

15 Brindalmnkumai Achar.vya, Roll dangi. No. 133, 

Regn. No. .‘ill of 1959-60, dangipur (.College 


16 Prahirkumar Ravchaudhuri, Roll Knt. No. 196, Regn. 

No. 28386 oi 1959-60, Kafwa College*. 

17 (lautam Chattopadhyay, Roll Kri. Ext. No. 125, 

Regn. No. 30918 o| 1957-58, Nedeipara, P.O. 
Krishnagar, Dist. Nadia. 

18 Arahindanafh Haidar, Roll Kri. Ext. No. 159, Regn. 

No. 32644 of 1958-59, Nutaupully, l .O. Krish- 
nagar, Dist. Nadia. 


19 Hrishikesh Sinha, Roll Mahi. N. No. 22, R eBn 

No. 9698 of 1947-48, non-collegiate student, Kp^m'i 
Teacher, Amratala Maktab, P.O. Amratala, Dj st 
Midnapur, Vill. and P.O. Birulia, Dist. Midnajxm, 

20 Dulalchandra Sarma, Roll Nai. No. 378, K(. L , n 

No. 24188 of 1959-60, Rishi Bankimohandra (U 
lege. 

21 Rakhalchandra Barman, Roll Rana. No. 25, R^m,, 

No. 18213 of 1959-60, Runaghat College, 

22 Lina Majumdar, Roll Rish. F. No. 30, Ruga 

No. 16124 of 1959-60, Rishra Bidhanchandra 
College. 

23 Paritoshehandra Bhattacharyya, Roll Santi. No «r 

Regn. No. 211653 of 1958-59, Santipur Colley 

24 Bibekananda Das, Roll Tam. No. 275, Regn. No [\\)\ 

ol 1958-59, Tainralipta Mahavidyalaya. 

25 Nirmalkanti Ghosh, Roll Cal. No. 5595, IWn 

No. 10629 of 1959-60, Surendranath College. 

26 Bahlu Ghoshdastidar, Roll Cal. No. 5615, Roir t , 

No. 10679 ot 1959-60, Surendranath College 

27 Nunigopal Pal, Roll Cal. No. 7080, Regn. No. Idiot 

of 1959-60, City College. 

28 Bhahaniprasad Manna, Roll Cal. No. 7681, Regn. 

No. 12848 of 1958-59, City College. 

29 Sitara Lai Agarwala, Roll Cal. No. 7090, Berm 

No. 22384 of 1959-60, City College. 

30 Syumalkumar Majumdar, Roll Cal. No. 7097. Regn 

‘ No. 13494 of 1959-60, City College. 

31 Sunilkumar Ghosh, Roll Cal. No. 7099, Regn. 

No. 37310 of 1959-60, City College. 

32 Ajavsaiikar Ghosh, Roll Cal. No. 7101, Regn 

No. 22523 ot 1959-60, City College. 

33 Haradhan Das, Roll Cal. No. 7109, Regn. No. Rllft! 

ol 1959-60, City College. 

(lii) The examination ol 1960 ol the following candidates 
is cancelled and they are debarred from ap])(*ai*mg at nn\ 
examination ol this University in 1961 and 1962: — 

1 Pahiirasankar Deb, Roll Cal. No. 3725, Regn 

No. 7016 ol 1959-60, Asutosh College. 

2 Sayan Bit Pai, Roll Dar. No. 71, Regn. No 2(1 WM 

ol 1959-60, Darjeeling Govt. College. 

3 Satrajit Sarkar, Roll dangi. No. 112. IR'gn 

No. 39058 of 1960, dangipur College. 

4 Salilrnujaii Sengupta, Roll dhar. No. 10, R"n ,s 

No. 27598 of 1958-59, dhargram Raj College. 

5 Dipakkumar Ray, Roll Nni. No. 500, Regn. No 202 M 

of 1959-60, Rishi Bankimehandra College. 

6 Rahindrannth Basil, Roll Rana. No. 30, 

No. 18221 of 1959-60, Ranaghat College. 


Senate House, ARUN RA\. 

(Calcutta, Controller of Examinations 

dated the 8th November 1960. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 39, 1962 


161 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 

BENGAL ENGINEERING COLLEGE 

p.O. Botanic Garden, Howrah 

tuf Bengal Engineering College will open next 
1 nn on July 2, 1962. The College is a residential 
sci f nd oilers courses for the B.E. Degree Examina- 
oaC of the Calcutta University in Civil, Mechanical, 
FW-trical, Metallurgical, Mining and Tele-communi- 
k finn Engineering and also for the Degree in 
a - hitecture. Admission will be granted on the 
■ nits of an admission test consisting of a written 
lamination for all candidates to be conducted by 
,h'“West Bengal Board of Examination for A’mis- 
t0 Engineering Colleges” as per dates given 
? ;, ow which will be followed by a medical tzst and 
l 'iva-vocc test. Applications must be made in the 
described form with a crossed Indian Postal Order 
Showing deposit of Rs. 12 (Rs. 6 being the registra- 
tion fee payable to the Board plus Rs. 6 payable to 
each College to which admission is sought) payable 
to the “West Bengal Board of Examination for admis- 
,' irl c . Engineering Colleges” and should /each the 
Office of the Board, c/o Bengal Engineering College, 
PO. Botanic Garden, Ilowrah, on or before April 
lii, 1962. The College prospectus and requisite 
application forms may be obtained from the college 
office either personally or by sending an unstamped 
self-addressed envelope of 10" X 4 size on and 
i trom 26th March 1962. A number of scholarships 
and stipends will be awarded to meritorious 
I students on the results of the Admission Test. 
Applications for the Five-year integrated degree 
course under the new regulations of the Calcutta 
University will be entertained from candidates who 
have either passed or will appear this year in the 


Pre-University Examination of the Calcutta Uni- 
versity or the Higher Secondary Examination in the 
Science stream or the Technical stream of the 
Board of Secondary Education, West Bengal, with 
Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics or its equi- 
valent. The selection of the candidates who have 
appeared in either of these qualifying examinations 
will however be subject to their passing these exami- 
nations this year. Candidates must not be over 
19 years of age on January 1, 1962. The age limit 
may be relaxed up to 21 years with the prior appro- 
val of the Government in the case of deserving 
applicants belonging to the educationally backward 
classes and communities. Further details regarding 
admission, number of seats in different branches, 
examination syllabus, programme, etc. are given in 
the prospectus. 

Dates of Admission Test 

Monday, May 21, 1962 — 

10 a.m. to 1 p.m. — Mathematics (for all candi- 
dates). 

3 p.m. to 5 p.m. — English Composition and Precis 
Writing (tor all candidates). 

Tuesday, May 22, 1962 — 

10 a.m. to 12 noon — Physics (for all candidates). 
12-30 p.m. to 2-30 p.m. — Chemistry (for all 
candidates). 

Wednesday, May 23, 1962 — 

10 a.m. to 1 p.m. — Free hand Drawing (Archi- 
tecture candidates only). 



!alsU rJNo. C2$7 



(Ealrulta 



PHALGUNA 10 ] 


THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 1962 


[ SAKA 1883 


PART II — Advertisements, Notices 


proctdura regarding rending 


Manuscript* tor publication of Advertisements, Notices, 
('Calcutta Gazette” (Part II). 


in th# 


Manuscripts should be properly edited and complete in itself. 


1, Manuscripts snoum on pruponj ... 

i i Manuscripts should always bo typewritten on one side of the paper. The name of signatory should be typewritten 
below ths signature. 

i Manuscrlots intended for advertisement in the next issue of "Calcutta Gazette" shall he received by Publication Salw 
.1 Hsrilcretariat^ Buildings, 1 Hastings *tr.st, Calcutta, up to 3-30 p. m. on Friday and at Head Office at Aliporo up to 
1 a. m. on Saturday. 

4 . All costs shall be paid in advance and deposited along with the manuscripts. 

Manuscrlots and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING (PUBLICATION 
{RANCH) WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS, ALIPORE. 

The press shall not bo held responsible tor delay in publication ol any advertisement duo to the non-oosorvanco of the 
nitructions detailed above. " ~^***«^^ 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 


Advertisement No. 8 

UTUCATIONS are invited for undermentioned posts 
i n[ji Indian citizens and persons of Indian origin migratod 
mm Pakistan with intention of permanently settling in 
udiii, subjects of Nepal, Sikkim or State of londicberry, 
aid jhm suns domiciled in Goa, Daman and Dili. Age limits 
elaxabie for Government servants except where otherwise 
specified. Upper age limits relaxable by 5, years ior 
Mutinied Castes and Scheduled Tribes candidates. No 
<Li\;ition tor others, save in exceptional circumstances, 
niti will m no ease be relaxod beyond three years. 

Qualifications relaxable at Commission’s discretion In oase 
j| andidates otherwise well qualified. Particulars and 
dl'lication forms obtainable from Secretary, Union Public 
vi\](r ( ’oiiimissioii , Post Box No. 18b, New Delhi. Request 
*«»i ms must specify name of post and should be 
pan ied by self addressed unstamped envelope for 
post at leivst cvf size 9"x4" indicating thereon name* 
posts tor which forms are required, ('losing date? for 
[' f, ’pt of application with treasury receipt or crossed 
Postal Order for Rs. 7.50 nP. (1.87 nP. for Scho- 
jJjM Castes and Scheduled Tribes) the 26th March 1962 
\pnl 1062 for applicants from abroad). Separate 
^I'phc.itHjH with separate tee required for each post. 
an, »»<lates abroad may apply on plain pa«|)er if forms are 
|'." 1 uailahlr and deposit tee- with local Indian Embassy. 

’ r "(ini(-<l candidates must appear for personal interview. 

bin ° ne Le cturer In English, D. M. College, Imphal, 
«n»pur Administration. Post temporary and reserved for 
Pastes /Tribes candidate. Applications Invited 
. 1 .,? che ? u led Caste*/ Tribes oandldates only. Pay:— 

fc -° -360— E.B. — 20 — 500. Higher initial pay to 


specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age: — 35 
years and beh/w. Qualifications: Essential — At least second 
Class Master’s or equivalent Honours Degree in English of 
recogiu sod U n i versity . 

2. Twentytwo Divisional Engineers (Roads) /(Bridges), 

Ministry of Transport and Communications. Posts tempo- 
rary hut likely to continue. Eight posts reserved ior 
Scheduled Castes and two for Scheduled Tribes if such 
suitable candidate available, otherwise treated unreserved. 
Pay:— Rs. 700 10 -1,100— 50/2 — 1,250. Higher initial pay 

to specially qualified and experienced candidates. Age: — 
35 years and below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) Degree 
in ( n il Engineering of a roeoguised univorsity or equiva- 
lent. (ii) \ Don t 5 years’ experience in aotuul road con- 
struction and maintenance including bridge construction, 
reinforced concrete, proficiency m design of structures of 
co’iicretc and steel. 

3. One Additional Consulting Engineer (Bridges), 
Ministry of Transport and Communications. Post tempo- 
rary but. likely to continue. Pay: — Rs. 1,800 — 100 — 2,000. 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified a«nd experienced 
candidate. Age: — 50 years and below. Qualifications: 
Essential — (i) Degree in Civil Engineering of a recognised 
university or equivalent, (ii) Specialisation in the design 
and construction of m»jor bridges of different types. 
um) Wide and varied experience in general Civil Engineer- 
ing with wide administrative experience. 

1. Two Controllers in the Import and Export Trade 
Control Organisation, Ministry of Commeros and Industry. 

Posts temporary but likely to continue indefinitely. One 
pest reserved for Scheduled Gustos and one for Scheduled 
Tribes if such suitable candidates available otherwise both 
flic posts treated unreserved. Pay: — Rs. 650—30—770— 
E.B. — 40 — 850 (subject to revision on Pay Commission’s 
recommendations). Higher initial pay to specially qualified 


96 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 1, 1962 

X i 


* 


[Part u 


and experienced candidates. Age: — 15 years and below , 
Qualifications; Esaantlal— (i) Degreo of a recognised Uni- 
vorsity, uv cquhalent. (ii) About 7 years’ experience in a 
responsible supervisory capacity in Government service or 
business concern. 


5 One Assistant Horticulturist (Olive and Pomegra- 
nato), Hlmaotial Pradesh Administration. Post temporary 

hut likelv to continue. Other things being equal Scheduled 
Unites /Tribe. candidate would bo preferred. PAyi— 
Its. 25( >—25 — 550 — 25 — 760. Higher initial pay to specially 
qualified and experienced catulioatc. Ag6:— .15 years and 
below. Qualifications: Essential— (i) Masters degree in 
Botany or Agricultural Botany or Agriculture or Horti- 
culture (or) Assoenrteship of I.A.It.l. m Horticulture, or 
m Genetics and Plant Breeding. (u) About two years 
experience ol research work in Horticulture including breed- 
ing and propagation ol truit trees as evidenced by publi- 
shed papers. 


G One Deputy Technical Adviser, Nutrition Division, 
Ministry of Food and Agrloulture. Post temporary. Pay: 

Its 700 - 10 — 1,1 (K) —50 / 2 — 1 ,250 (subject to revision m 
the light of Pav Commission’s recommendations to scienti- 
fic scale). Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. Age:— 40 years and below. Quali- 
fications: Essential— (j) Waster’s degree or equivalent in 
Chemist rv or Biochemistry or Degree in Medicine with spe- 
cialisation in Biochemistry, (ii) About five years research 
or equivalent practical experience in the field of nutrition 
nml applied nutrition. 


7 Two Lecturers in Tibetan, School of Foreign Lan- 
guages, New Delhi, Ministry of Defence. One post perma- 
nent, and the other temporary. Both the posts are reserv- 
ed lor Scheduled Oastes/Tribos candidate; if no such suit- 
able candidates available, will be treated as unreserved. 
Non-Indians are also eligible to apply. Pay: — Rs. 350— 2o 
500 — 30- Got). Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
and experienced candidates. Age:— 45 years and below. 

Qualifications: Essential— (i) High academic qualifications 
in the Tibetan language, (ii) Good working knowledge of 
English. 


8 . One Senior Mechanical Engineer In the Delhi Milk 
Soheme, Ministry of Food and Agriculture. Post temper 
rary but likely to continue indefinitely. Post reserved for 
Scheduled Caste/ Tribe candidate if such suitable candidate 
is available, otherwise treated unreserved. Pay: — Rs. 1,800 
— GO — 1 ,G0O. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. Age: — 85 years and below. Quali- 
fications: Essential — (i) Degree in Meehan icajl Engineering 
oi recognised University or equivalent, (ii) About ten 
years' experience in mechanical engineering in a large 
mechanical engineering workshop ol repute. 


9. One Reader in Venereal Diseases and Dermatology, 
Medical College, Pondicherry, Ministry of Health. Post 
temporary but likely to become permanent. Pay: — 
Rs. 570-30—000 — 35 — 07 0- . E. B. — 85— 950 plus non-practis- 
ing allowance of 25 per cent, of pay subject to a minimum 
oi Its. 150 and a maximum of Rs. 400 per im/ntli. (No 
private practice or private tuition of any kind will la*, 
allowed). Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate Age:— Preferably below 45 years 
tor all including Government servants. Qualifications: 
Essential — (|) A Medical qualification included in the First 
or the Second Schedule or Part 11 of the Third Schedule 
(other than licentiate qualification) to the Indian Medical 
Council Act, 1956. (ii) Post-graduate/ Research Degree or 
Diploma - M.J). or M.R.C.P. (iii) About i years’ teaching 
experience us Lecturer or in an equivalent post m Venereal 
Diseases and Dermatology in a Medical teaching institution. 


10. One Assistant Botanist (Rice) in the Himachal 
Pradesh Administration, Department of Agriculture. Post 
temporary but likely to continue. Other things being equal, 
preference will be given to Scheduled Castes /Tribes candi- 
dates. Pay i — Rs. 250 — 25 — 550 —25 — 750. Higher initial 
pav to specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age: 

-35 years and below\ Qualifications: Essential — (i) 
Master’s degree in Agriculture of a recognised university 
or Assoeiateship of Lndian Agricultural Research Institute 
with specialisation in Plant Breeding and Genetics, 
(ii) About two years’ experience in breeding of crop plants. 


11. Eight Assistant Architects, Military £ nBl _ 
Service, Ministry of Defenoe. Posts temporary but u 1 
to continue indefinitely. One post reserved for Sk*h«S 
Castes candidate if such suitable candidate is ava4.u 

otherwise all posts treated unreserved. Pay: ii„ 

25 — 500- -410 — 590 - E. B.-4M)— 800—E. 

Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experiT* , 
candidates. Age: — >15 years aaid below. Quailftfiatu 01 
Ewantial— (i) A.tt.I.B.A. or degree in Architecture 
recognised University /Institute (or) G.D. Areliit#*c-tu r » ° 


mu* 


J.J. School of Arts (or) National Diploma in Archite* 
of the All India Council ui Technical Education, (fi) \ 
three \ ears’ experience of drawing office or in ArchitJJ' 
firm. * ct 


12. One Cytogeneticist Hi the Division of Botany inriii. 

Agricultural Research Institute. Post permanent hi 
appointment will he made on temporary basis i« i 
vacancy. Pay :-Rs, 700-50-1.250. Higher initial )av 7 
specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age-L.c 
years and below. Qualifications: Essential— ( i ) m u ^ ( , - 

degree oi recognised University in Botany, Agriniltiu! 
Botany or Agriculture with specialisation in Cytology * 
Cytogenetics as special subject. (Or) As social ship 

I.A.It.l. in Cytogenetics, (ii) About 7 years’ rcsearH 
experience in Cytology or Cytogenetics as" evidenced 
published work. 

13. (a) Lecturer in Physios; and (b) Lecturer in Math* 
matlos, Indian Aid Mission, Nepal, Ministry of Extenu 
Affairs. Posts temporary and the period of appointinen 
will be two years in the first instance. Pay: — Rs. :V2,V-0| 
— 125 — 25 — 575 plus Nepal allowance of Rs. 300 per Tiiontl 
if married and Rs. 225 per month if unmarried. lIigh P 
initial pay to speciallv qualified and experienced candidate 
Age: — ;15 > ears and below. Qualifications: Essential— [\ 
At least second class M.A. or M.Sc. degree in Physicsj 
Mathematics of recognised University. (ii) At least twi 
years’ teaching experience. 

14. Twelve Assistant Inspectors of Mines In the 0fiic< 
of Chief Inspector of Mines, Ministry of Labour and Em- 
pioyment. Nine posts permanent and three temporary liuj 
likely to become permanent. Of the permanent posts oiphl 
are reserved for Scheduled Castes and one for Scheduler 
Tribes candidate if such suitable candidates arc available 
otherwise all posts treated unreserved. Pay: — Its .riO-* 
25 - 500 — 30 — 590 — E. B. — 30 — 800 — K. B.~ 83(1 M-m 
(Higher initial start of Rs. 590 to those possessing 2n< 
class Mine Manager’s Certificate of Competency will U 
given). Higher initial pay up to 475 to others ii I hey ,m 
specially qualified and possess necossarv experience Age 
— 35 years iwul below. Qualifications: Essential- -Dcgioc o 
equivalent diploma or other equivalent qualifications i: 
Mining Engmeeiing of recognised University /Institution 

15. One Assistant Professor In Electrical Engineerin 
(Electrio Machines), Delhi Polytechnic, Delhi. Post pemii 
nent. but- appointment will be made on temporary hums i 
lien vacancy. Post reserved for Scheduled Castes /Trita 
candidate if such suitable candidate is available othorwii 
treated unreserved. Pay: — Rs. G00 40 — 1,000 50/2 J .15 
(subject to revision in the light of Pay Commission^ t econi 
mendations). Higher initial pay to specially qualified an 
experienced candidate. Age:— 40 veara and below Quail! 
cations: Essential — (i) Degree in Electrical Enginccrm; 
preferably m first class, <yf recognised university or equna 
lent, (ii) About five years’ teaching and/or proforma! 
research experience in a responsible position. 

16. One Professor of Ophthalmology, Maulana A*a 
Medical College, New Delhi, Delhi Administration. P« 

temporary but likely to become permanent. Post reserve 
for a Scheduled Tribes candidate /Scheduled Caste rand 
date; if no such suitable candidate available, will b< ,r ^ 
ed as unreserved. Pay:— Rs. 1,100 — 50—1,400 plus n»»n 
practising allowance at 25 per cent, of pay subieot 
minimum of Rs. 150 per month and a maximum nf IB $ 
per month. (Private practice of any kind will not 
allowed). Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
experienced candidate. Age: — 45 years and below QU al 
fications: Essential — (i) A Medical qualification included i 
the First or Second Schedule or Part II of Third Srhedu 
to the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956. (ii) Post- 2 r;«d»*j 
riualifications in Opfhalmologv and Surgery, c.g.. F"( l 
or M.S. with D.O. or D.O.M.S. (iii) Teaching expend 
m Assistant Professor/ Reader /Lecturer for at Icavl 5 yetf 
(10 years in the case of Lecturer) in a Medical College. 


97 


Part II? T1IE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH I, 1962 


» 



r (a) Eighty Assistant Executive Engineers (Civil), 
( 0 ) thlrtyftve Assistant Engineers (Civil), General 
Msrve Engineer Feroe, for the Border Roads Development 
Mlnsatry of Transport and Communications, Posts 
T«»i*irarv but likely to continue. Pays — For (a)* Rs. 400 

B.—35— 950. For (b)i 
— HD-^590 — K. B. — 30 — 800 — E. B.— 30— 830 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
^.jieiiccd candidates. Ages — 46 years and below. Quali- 
fications: Essential — For (a) (i) Degree in Civil Engineer- 
^ 0 ) recognised University . FOr (b) (i) Diploma in Civil 
puginooring of recognised University or Institute, (ii) 3 
u> .^' experience of works. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WE8T BENGAL 

General instructions to candidates applying In response te 
advertisements Issued by the Commission for reorult- 
ment to posts of “8efeetlon M . 

{ [) instructions regarding submission of application. - 

Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the oiiice of the Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor). 
Alijiorn, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending » large eelf- 
idiiicssetl envelope with stamps eufficiont to cover the 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 

copies of the prescribed form may apply on any similar 
typed (not handwritten) form showing exactly the word- 
ing {Mid spacing of the sample form published in the 
“Calcutta Cassette” of the 1st September 1966, provided 
the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ own handwriting. 

U) particulars and certificates required.— Candidates 

should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one .year prior to the date of their applications, 
irom responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character. 

The Commission accepts only the age of a candidate as 
i .Horded in the Matriculation or the Secondary School 
Final /heaving Certificate. In the case of a female candi- 
date wnose age is not recorded in the Matriculation or 
School Final Certificate, any of the following evidence of’ 
ai:t* s accepted by the Commission: — 

1. A certificate from the Headmistress of the school 

which she last attended, showing her exact age an 
recorded in the school register. 

2. An affidavit regarding her age sworn by her father 

or mother or some other person in a position to 
know by having been present or heard of her birth 
at the time of occurrence. 

A certificate regarding her age, from a Member of 
the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who must 
have known the candidate and her family, indicat- 
ing clearly the evidence on the basis of which he/ 
she satisfied himself /herself on the point. 

U) Fee.— Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Re. 6 in the form of a receipted cfialan 
from a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India 
the head “XXXVI — Miscellaneous — Receipts of the 
i unlio Service Commission, West Bengal”. Money erden*, 
J'^ues, etc., in lieu of treasury challans are not accepted 
o*»tal order, however, may he accepted from candidates. 

, - ? should be crossed and made payable to “The Secre- 
lfi ry, Public Service Commission, West Bengal”. No appli- 
will be considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application fee. 

^didates abroad may deposit their application fees 
tn the High Commissioner of India or the Embassy, as 
win < u W0 may be > and obtain receipts for the same, which 
, ni4i j av ® to be attached to their applications to he sub- 
‘ ,llttod to the Commission. 

Government service should make *ure 
*}<i h* fee that their applications will be forwvd- 

with^u ,r 8 1 ,, P er *°r officers. In no case will the fee paid 
ltl the application be refunded. 


The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced person from Pakistan. 

An indigent displaced person shall, in the first instance, 
pay the application fee prescribed tor a gazetted poet 
advertised by the Commission but if he /she is selected for 
and appears at the interview, the fee paid by him/her will 
be refunded afterwards. 

Note. — “(i) A uisplaeed porson claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, e.g 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original. 

(ii) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with bis appli- 
ratum a certificate in original from a gazetted officer or a 
Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging to 
the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 

(m) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion lee must furnish besides the evidence required under 
Note ( 1 ) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.” 

(4) Address. — Candidates should give their preeent 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address 

(6) Canvassing. — Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
tor appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
IKirsons interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will he disregarded. 

(6) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation), in 
India will he rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 

Candidates serving under Government or a local or 
Statutory Body should submit an advance copy in the pres- 
cribed form. The application fee should in such cases be 
attached to the advance copy and not to the original. The 
candidature of such applicants may not however be con- 
sidered if the original applications do not reach the Com- 
mission’s office within a fortnight from the closing date. 
Unless applications in original or advance copies with 
application fees are received within the closing date, late 
applications may be rejected. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Alipore, the 27th January 196i. 


Advertisement No. 9 

APPLICATIONS arc invited from Indian citizens for the 
Inflowing posts: — 

(a) One Works Manager, Calcutta Transport Fleet In 
the Directorate of Transportation under the Food, Relief 
and Supplies (Food and Supplies) Department, West 
Bengal. Post permanent. Pay: — Rs. 326 60 — 476 — 35- 
1,000 (E.B. after 8th and 16th stages) per month plus 
house-rent allowance as admissible under the .rules. Higher 
initial pav up to Rs. 610 may ho allowed to a candidate 
specially qualified and experienced. 

Qualifications: Essential— (i) A degree ill Mechanical 
Enginoorn<.r with two years’ experience in a responsible 
pr/sifinn in an Automobile Workshop of repute; Or, A 
diploma in Mechanical nr Automobile Engineering plus five 
\ ears’ experience in a im ponhiblo position in an Automobile 
Workshop o! jopute; (n> Administrative ability. Desirable 
— Knowledge of stores accounts. Age:— Not more than 45 
years on the 1st March 1962, relaxable for candidates 
otherwise well qualified. 

Closing date— The 22nd March 1962. 


I’HE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 1, 1962 


< [Part u 



(I,) One Assistant Professor of Textile Chemistry, 

l, ) One Assistant Professor of Textile Technology, 

td) One Assistant Professor of Mechantoal y^ E l ec t rl- 

cal Engineering, all at the College of Textile Technology, 

meT P W«t U Senga| he S^porary. Pay.-Rs- M0- 

8th -jJ imj. sta.es) j--* 

the ImMK ol special qualifications, or on age basis up to 
!V5 years. 

Qualifications: For Assistant Professor of .Textile^Che- 

“ ,! a,?l\,,l“rr'morsity or'a diploma in Textile Ohemistry 

7,1 II luversitv or its equivalent; (i. Adequate 

research establishment. Desirable— (») M.Sc j j 

Tr.vtih* ( ’hcimsh'v of a foreign University or its equivalent 
iPm, InXn University r <.i) Teaching expenenco; 
(ill) Knowledge ol Bengali. 

For Assistant Professor of Textile Technology: Essential 

— (i) n Sc (Tech.) in Textile Technology ol an Indian 
University 01 a diploma in Textile Technology of a foreign 
l Z "rsilv or ds equivalent; (ii) Adequate practical expe- 
nenee in' Weaving Oepisrtment of ^tdc mil s and Ol 
textile research establishment. Desirable— (l) M.. 

Teel ) in Textile Industries of a foreign University or its 
e ( ,oi!„le„, of an Indian University ; (ii) Teaching expen- 
ciht: (iii) Knowledge ot Bengali. 

Tor Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Electrical 

Engineering: Essential— (i) A degree in Mechanical or 
Electrical Engineering of a recognised Indian or tu'P'K' 1 
Univerxitx or any other qualification in Mechanical oi Elec- 
tneal Engineering exempting a candidate from appearing 
m Sections A and I) ol the Associate M . e T m lT': shl) ’ ^ t Ade 
nation «f the Institution of Engineers (Tndin) , ( 11 ) Ado- 
, uaU ..xi.eriei.ee ... a reputed commercial firm, workshop 
or 111 textile null. Desirable— Teaching experience. 

Age: (for all the posts)— Not more than .Y> years on the 
1st Maicli J tid'd , relax a hie for otherwise well qualified 
candidates. 

Closing date -The 22nd March 1962. 

(„) one Dairy Technologist, Central Livestock 
Researcti-cum-Breeding Station, Harlnghata In 1 the West 
Bengal General Service. Post permanent bnt . the j 
menl will be made on 11 temporary basis. Pay.— Its. -iw 
;tO — fKW) (E.ll. irfler 8th and 16th stages) per month. 

Qualifications: (i) A degree or diploma in Animal Hus- 
l.imln Agriculture, Veterinary Science or Dairy Silence 
with i'ccopnised Post- graduate specialised training in dairy- 
,i,„. (i,, Pra.ti.nl experience of managing 1 * modern liquid 
„!nk plant. Age. — Between 35 and :«5 years on the 1st 
March liKi'J. rein sable in suitable cases. 

Closing date— The 17th Maroh 1992. 

0) One Lecturer in Geology (Post temporary hut like- 
h to lx 1 made permanent) , 

one Lecturer in Statistics (Post temporary), 
in the West Bengal Junior Educational 8orvloo (M«nj 
Branch). Women unsuitable. Pay:— Rs. -7*»— lo .' ,o) 

q;,0 per month plus house-rent allowance as admissible 
und.'r the rule.. HTgTier initial pay up to Rs. .loO may ho 
«i| i.ntcd m mi it able eases. 

Qualifications: For Lecturer in Geology: Essential— 

\ Him class Ma..1er's degre.-. Or, A second class Master s 
, with frist, class Honours in the Bachelor’s degree 

Or" \ Doctorate degree will, a first class Honours or second 
class Master's dcgicc. in Ecology of an Indian University; 

Or 

E.iim islent loreign qualifications; 

Or, 

ft „ cm ndiflnie has dhenvise si good academic record, a 
iMond Master’s degree with second class Honours 

in the Bachelor’s decree in Geology plus five years teaoh- 
pw experience in a recognised college as a wholetime 

Uehor ill the suhieet. The period of teaching experience 
may be relaxed at ttie discretion of the Commission. 


For Lecturer In Statistics: Easentlal--A first cl** 
blaster's degree in Statistics, Or, A second class Master’s 
degree in Statistics with first class Honours in the BacW 
lm \ degree 111 Statistics, Mathematics, Economics or 
JMivhies, Or, A Doctorate degree in Statistics with a first 
class Honours in Statistics, Mathematics, Economics 0 r 
l>l, v sies. or with a second class Masters degree i n 
statistics; 

Or, 

Equivalent foreign qualifications; 

Or, 


Honours in uie nuniwm o w&sw *** wwwv.»wv B , iuemienia. 
ties, Economies or Physics plus five years teaching expert, 
cnee in a recognised college as a wholetime teacher in the 

subject. The period of teaching experience may be relaxed 
at the discretion of the GommiMlon. 

Desirable -(ior both the nosts)— Good power ot expres- 
sion in Bengali — spoken anti writton. 


Age:— (for both the posts)— Not more than do years 
the 1st March 1902, relaxablo for specially qualified cam 

. . - _ I : i 


' on 

th»' 1st March 19t>2, reiaxame ior spevmuy qutuiuea candi- 
dates’ ;,nd fc/r persons holding substantive appointment m 
tin' Education Department, West Bengal. 

Closing date — The 17th Maroh 1962. 

<h) One Junior Bengali Mistress, Dow Hill Girls’ 
School, Kurseong, in the West Bengal General Servioe 
(Education). Post temporary. Men unsuitable. Pay:- 
Its. 225- - 1 0 525 -15 475 per month (for trained gradu- 

ates with Honours or Master’s degree); lis. 175 — 7 — 245— 

S ;t-J5 per month (for trained graduates). 1’ree furnished 
quarters will be piovuled; occupier’s share of Municipal 
Tn\ and the cost of electric current consumed being pay- 
able by the incumbent. 

Qualifications:-^) A degree of a recognised University 
w i (,|) Bengali tvs a subject, pri'ferably with Honours in 
Bengali , (ii) A degree in Teaching or Education oi a 
recognised University; (iii) Two years’ teaching experience 
in a recognised Secondary School, preferably m an Englidi 
medium (/fie. Age:— Not more than AO years on the 1st 
March 1902, rdaxable in ease of candidates possessing 
exceptionally high qualifications and for persons holding 
‘-ulfstaiitive appointment in the Education Department. 
West Bengal. 

Closing date The 10th March 1962. 

Age Concession 

The upper age limit for all the posts is reliable bv five 
years for Scheduled Castes /Tribes and up to 45 ymus tor 
displaced persons iri/in Pakistan. 

\ candidate who before the 15th August 1947, was 
del .-lined, imprisoned, interned or externed on account ot 
lns/hcr activities in connection with tho country’s struggle 
lor independence, not being convicted of an olleiicc indi- 
cating moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession nj 
respect ot the upper age limit. The concession granted will 
be equal to the exact period of detention, imprisonment 
internment or extornment suffered up to a maximum 0 
toui years. 

Aiq.lv to Secretary with a Treasury Chilian of Rs 5 
under ' liea.l “XXXVT-Miscellaneous— Receipts of l.i» 
Ken i> e Ci.inmihsmli, West Bengal”, or a CrnHScn • _ 
Oi-iler o! Rs. 5 payable to '‘Secretary., Public Sor \'" 
rommissmii. West Bengal”. Overseas candidates ' 
deposit, their application fees with the High Commis. 
of India or the Indian Embassy, as the case , 

Pm I molars and prescribed application forms obtains 
from tlm office of the Commission, Atidersim House (gr 
floor). Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or ( m seiuhn. • 
sop addressed envelope (si/e 10" x6") with postage sW - 
of ;r> u P. and the nann 1 of the post superscribed o 
envelope. Those who intend to take application forms 
or submit the applications personally should do so nei 
in- 15 a.m. and .TOO p.m. on full working (lays and net** 
10-15 a.m. and 12-^0 p.m. on Saturdays. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary. 

Public Service Commission, AVest B (rlu 


Alipore, the 17th February 1962. 


II] t 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 1, 1962 


99 


M T 


Corrigendum 

T modification of Commission’s advertisement 

0 f 1962 inviting applications for recruitment to a 
>° 1 !«• post of Research Officer (Electronics) at the 
Researoh institute, West Bengal, in the West Bengal 

RWvJj Service, it is hereby notified for general informa- 
tiie qualifications for the post have since been 
tl0n AM 

rf .visecl as 

coml class M.Se. degree in Radio Physics or Applied 
\ " c w ith Communication Kngineering as the special 
W™': n r o recognised University; Or, A Fellowship or an 

HllbjOi * ( M Vln/itinniAn m!' TnLi^l^nl A rtf QniAtlOA 

HanK»l f,r< * 


•itosliip in Electronics of the Institute of Science, 
lore (India); Or, B.Se. degree in Electronics of a 


H^nised foreign University; Or, B.Teeli. (Hons.) degree 
FP Klprtronics and Communication Kngineering of any 
,n r ‘ nlsP 6 Institution, or its equivalent qualifications. 


Klectronics ^ » 
reeogn. 

Particulars and proscribed application forms are obtain 


^r>uml lloor), Alipore, Calcutfca-27, personally or on send 
;V a selt-addressed envelope (size 10" xd") with postage 
Him of 35 ftpd the, name of the post superscribed on 
T, Invclope. The last date of receipt' of applications is 
hereby extended to the 1st March 1962. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


the office of the Commission, Anderson House 


Alip«»re 


the 14th February 1902. 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 

Insolvency Case No. 4 of 1962 

in, Uumukli Ball Aganvalla of 10/4/C, Nepal Bhatt»chary.ya 
Street, police-station Bhowanipore — Debtor-Applicant. 

I’d Messrs Kauai Oil Mill of H6/ 1 , Canal West Road, Cal- 
cutta, and eight, others-— Creditors. 

ON the l.lth day of February 1962 it was ordered that 
in matter of the petition of the applicant he heard on the 
Oili <la\ </l March 1962 and that the said applicant to 
* leiul to he examined by this Court on that date. 

ilifiie. t lie 171 li February 1962. 

S. SEN (JUPTA, District Judge. 

(186-1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE MUNSIF AT MOTIHARI 


Title Suit No. 146 Of 1961 


Khumsuddin Mian alias Dina Mian, Plaintiff 
versus 

Inayet Mian and others, Defendants 

t*/ (1) Inayet Mian, C/o. Hukumchand, Pueca Line 
Mu 9, Basft No. 40, P.O. Haj inagar, district 24-Parga- 
uas, Calcutta. 

NN HER KAS the abovenamed plain tif!' has filed the afore- 
, Mut against you in respect ot hxmls measuring IS 
a| lms in dimes, in village Math Gajadhar, Tap pa Sirauna, 
j l| ^!l Uu l' Mlelisi, police-station , Patahi, district Chumpuran. 
, J0 oh March 1962 has been fixed for your appearance in 
tils court. * 


I 1,11 . 111,1 hereby directed to appear either personally or 
u 7* H llv authorised and duly instructed pleader to 
s ( ‘ r »11 material questions relating to the above suit. 

J t n A'K 11 ^ (, t‘ your apnea ranee on the aforesaid date the 
1 he heard and decided cx-parte against you. 

U\ ' n? 1 p U i ( * er m * v lumd and tho seal of this court, the 8th 
f 5 01 1' ehruary 1962. 


ILLEGIBLE, 


Munsif, Motihari (('hamparan ) . 


(182—1) 


SUKHITI BHUSHAN NATH, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(128 — i) 


MAN1NDRAKUMAR BHAUM1K, LL.B., intends to bo 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(120- 4) 


he 


LXKSHM1N VKAYAN MUKHERJEE, LL.B., intends to 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(130—4) 


M IUT Y UN JOY DAS GUPTA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(131-4) 


SHIM LA ICS II Ml NARAYAN DATTA, M.Oom., LL.B., 
intends to be enrolled us an Advocate, Cal. High Court. 

(133-4) 


SM. GOU1M BANERJEE, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
us an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(134 — 4) 


N AZLA ROB, LL.B., mtends to he enrolled as an 
Advocate of tin* Calcutta High Court. 

(169 — 4) 


MA 1)1 1 UK AR DAVE, LL.B., intends 
an Advocate o| the Calcutta High Court. 


to 


he 


(‘ii rolled as 
(170—4) 


SHIM ANIL KUMAR DATTA, LL.B., 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High 


intends to he 
Court. 

( 171 — 4 ) 


AM1YA KUMAR MUKHERJEE, LL.B., intends to he 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Cahuttu High Court. 

(172 -4) 


NANI COPAL CHOWDIIURY, LL.B., intends to he 
cm tilled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


( 179 - 4 ) 


A RUN MUKHERJEE, LL.B., intends to he enrolled as 
an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 


( 185 - 4 ) 


100 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 1, 1962 


fPARtll 


IN THE MIOH COURT AT CALCUTTA 


Ordinary Original Civil Jurisdiction 


In the matter of the Companies Act, 1956 
And 

In the matter of Tri-sure (India) Private Limited 
Company Petition No. 38 oi 1JG2 

Company Application No. 28 ol 1962 
Tri Sure India Private Limited, Petitioner 
NOTICE OF HEARING OF PETITION 

NOTICE is hereby given that a petition was, on the 
19th February 1962, presented to the Court by the above- 
named Company i to confirm the alteration oi the Mem - 
randuin of Association of the said Company resolved on by 
a Special Resolution of the Company passed at the ^neral 
meeting of the said Company held on the .10th September 
1961 as follows : 

“Resolved that subject to confirmation by Court, 
the registered office of the Company he transferred 
from the State oi West Bongol to the State of Maha- 
rastra, and accordingly, the words ‘State ol Maha- 
rastra” he substituted for the words State ol West 
llengal”, in Clause II of the Memorandum of Asso- 
ciation of the Company”. 


AND NOTH' B is further given that. the said petition is 
directed to be heard before the Court on the 20th March 
1962, and any person interested in the said Company as a 
debenture holder, creditor or member thereof, or otherwise, 
who wishes to oppose the making of an order confirming 
the said alteration should give notice of his intention and 
the grounds of his objection in writing to the attorneys of 
the Company so a*s to reach them not later than the 17th 
March 1962 and should appear at the time of the hearing 
in person or by Attorney or Advocate when he will be 
heard. A copy of the petition will he furnished to any 
person requiring it on payment of the prescribed charges 
for the same. 

Dated the 21st day of February 1962. 


KHA1TAN S: CO., 

Attorneys for the Petitioner, 

111 Old Post Office Street, Calcutta. 

(189-1 ) 


LOST 


THE Government Promissory Note No. CA129007 of the 
three per cent. Conversion Loan of 1946 for Rb. 500 
originally standing in the name of Gobinda Chandra Das 
and li*sfc endorsed to Sm. Lilabati Guha by tho Joint 
Secretary to the Government of West Bengal, Public Works 
Department, Calcutta, the proprietor bv whom it was not 
delivered to the aforesaid lady nor endorsed to any other 
person, having been lost, notice is hereby given that pay- 
ment of the above note and the interest thereupon have 
been stopped at the Public Debt Office, Reserve Bank oi 
India, Calcutta, and that application is about to he made 
for the issue of duplicate in favour of the Joint Secretary 
to the Government of West Bengal, Public Works Depart- 
ment. Tim public are cautioned against purchasing or 
otherwise dealing with the abovementioned security. 

D. N. BANERJEE, 

Joint Secretary to the 
Government of West Bengal 
Public Works Department. 


STATE BANK Dt INDIA 


Notloa | 

Calcutta, the 15th February 1962 

THE following appointments on the Bank’s staff 
hereby notified:— n 

Sliri N. It. Choudhury, Staff Assistant, held temnoran 
charge oi Barrackpore Branch from the 26th No Veit ; 
her to the 26th December 1961 inclusive, vice Shri \ 
K. Bliattiwharya. 

Shri J. D. Sharnia, Staff Assistant, to act as Account, 
ant, Asansol Branch, &b from the 3rd January 19(jo 
vice Shri D. C. Ganguly. 

Shri B. B. Dalai, Staff Assistant, to he Agent, (w 
Debar Branch, as from the Cth January 1962, 

Shri A. K. Gupta. 

Shri K. K. Deb to be Assistant-in-Charge, Bilk Sub 
Section, Calcutta Local Head Office, as from the 8tJ 
January 1962, vice Shri A. C. Roy Chowdhury. 

Shri M. N. Kholey, Staff Assistant, to act as Seeon< 
Accountant, Netaji Subhas Road Branch, Calcutta, * 
Irani the 1 7th January 1962. 

Shri R. P. Malhotran to act as Agent, Park Stree 
Branch, Calcutta, as from the 14th January 1902, vie 
Sliri FI. S. Majumdor. 

Shri IL G. Bose, Staff Assistant, to act as Accountant 
Sham bazar Branch, Calcutta, as from the 21st Jani] 
ary 1962, vice Shri A. P. Maitra. 

Shri S. S. Das, Staff Assistant, to act as Accountani 
Bhownnipore Brandi, Calcutta, as from the 21st Jam] 
ary 1902, vice Shri A. K. Kundu. 

Shri J. R. Basu, clerk, held temporary charge c 
Naihati Pay Office (under OhinBurah Branch) from tli 
1st to the 18th November 1961 inclusive and agai 
from the 3rd January to the 2nd February 1962 inch; 
aive, vice Shri S. De. 

Shri A. K. Dutta, clerk, held temporary charge c 
Habra Pay Office (under Burra Bazar Branch, Ca 
eutta) from the commencement of business on the KHlj 
November to the close of business cm the 11th DereJ 
ber 1961, vice Shri A. R. Chatterjee. 

Shri 1*. K. Mukerji, Sub-Accountant, held temporal 
charge* ot Behai a Pay Office (under Bhowanipori 
Branch, Calcutta) from tho commencement of husinesi 
on the 27th to the commencement ol business on tfo 
30th November 1961, vice Shri S. K. Basu. 

Shri N. S. Banerjee to be Clerk-in-Charge, Kalna Sub 
Pay Office funder Burdwan Branch), m from the 3ri 
January 1962, vice Shri A. K. Kowor. 

By order, 

B. K. KACKEU, 
Secretary and Treasurer, 


NOTICE 


NOTICE is hereby given that Shri Kishori Molmn R< 
lias retired Irani the firm of lloy & Roy of 1/l/fJ ^ 
Prosnd Mukherjee Road, Calcutta-25, on and from i 
Baisak I .‘167 B.S. and as such has ceased to be a part® 
thereof from the said date. 

1/11) G&nga Prasad Mukherjee Road, Calcutta-25. 
Dfttod tho 21st February 1962. 


For Roy & Roy- 
MANABENDRA NATH R° 
Partner. 


Dated, the 6th February 1962. 


Part ttl 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 1, 1962 


101 


NOTICE 

RS>! outt Estate Limited (In Voluntary Liquidation) 

PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that a General Meeting of the 
mipanv will be held on Saturday, the 17th day oi March 
1062 ' at* 9-30 a.m. at No. 13/1, College Square, Calcutta, 
under the provisions of section 209G of the Indian Com- 
panies Act, 1913. 

j>l f ase attend and oblige. 

l lie 21st day of February 1962. 

A. K. DEY, T. BANERJ1, 
Liquidators. 

(187 — 1) 


NOTICE 

Re.: Dutt Estate Limited (In Voluntary Liquidation) 

PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that a Meethig of the Credi- 
tors of the Company will be held on Saturday, the 17th 
( la\ <>1 March 1962, at 10 a.m. at No. 13/1, College Square, 
Calcutta, under the provisions of section 209G of the 
Indian Companies Act, 1913. 

Please attend and oblige. 

The 21st day of February 1962. 

A. K. DEY, T. BANERJ], 
Liquidators. 

(18S - 1) 


IN THE MATTER OF THE INDIAN COMPANIE8 ACT, 

1956 

AND 

IN THE MATTER OF TRAN8PORT NADIA PRIVATE 
LTD. IN LIQUIDATION 

Members’ Voluntary Winding-up 

Section 197, Rule 329 

Notice convening final meeting 

NOTICE is hereby given in pursuance of secliou 497 
that a General Meeting ot the members of the ubovenamed 
Company will he held at Registered Office at Krislinagar, 
Xudia, on the 2nd day c,*t April 1962, at 2-30 o’clock in the 
noon tor the purpose of having mi account laid before them 
showing the manner m which the winding-up hus been 
conducted and the property of the Company disposed of 
and ot hearing any explanation that may he given by the 
liquidators and also of determining by a special resolution 
of the Company, tin* maimer in which the hooks, accounts 
and documents of the Company and of the liquidators shall 
be disposed of. 

Dated this 20th day of February 1962. 

For Transport Nadia Private Ltd. 

(In Liquidation) 
BIRENDRA NATIl ROY, 

N ILK A NTH A SING HA ROY, 
Liquidators. 


(183 — 1) 





104 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE^ MARCH 8, 19^2 jp^ 


degree in Civil Engineering; of recognised University, 
(iii) About seven years’ experience in a responsible position 
in a planning or architectural office, (iv) Familiarity with 
Planning Administration and Law. 

4. One Leoturar in Russian, National Defence Academy, 
Kharakvasia, Ministry of Defence. Post temporary hut 
likely to continue and be made permanent. Post reserved 
tor Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidate; if no such candi- 
date available, will be treated as unreserved. Candidates 
selected for interview may also be required to sit for a 
written test details of which will follow in due course. 
Pay:— Us. 4 ( KJ — 4( )0- 4f$0 — 30 — 000 — 36 — 670 — E . B.— 35- 
-- 950. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. AgS: — Below' 35 years. Quali- 
fications: Essential— (i) Degiec or Diploma in Russian 
language, (ii) Must have resided for about one year in a 
country where the language is spoken, (iii) About tw r o 
years’ experience ol teaching iii the language. 

r>. One Physician, Civil Hospital. Imphal, Ministry of 
Health. Bovt temporary but likely to continue on long 
term basis. Pay:— Bs. 400 — 4CK) — 450 — 30 — GOO — 35 — 670 
— E.B.— 35- 050 plus non-practising allowance at the rate 
of 25 per cent, ol pav subject to a minimum of Rs. 150 per 
month ami a iimmiiiiiiii ol Bs. 400 per month. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age: — 35 years and below. Qualifications : Essential — 

(i) A Medit.d qualification (other than licentiate qualifica- 
tion) includ* d in the first or second Schedule or part 11 ol 
Third Schedule to the Indian Medical Council Act, 1950. 

(ii) Post-graduate qualification in Medicine e.g. M.D. or 
M.R..C.P. (iii) About five years’ experience as Physician 
in any institution of repute or professional experience lor 
about five yeais. 

0. One Additional Legal Adviser, Special Police Estab- 
lishment (Headquarters) Ministry of Home Affairs. 

Post temporal > and liktlv to continue. Pay: — Bs. 1,100 — 
50—1 ,31)0—00- - 1 .<?i )0 — 1 00 — 1,800. Higher initial pay to 
specially qmdilifil and experienced candidate. Age: — 45 
years and h« low. Qualifications: Essential— (i) Degree in 
La.v in a reci gnised University, or Bar-at-Law of recog- 
nised Inn ol (’curl of England or Eire, (ii) About ten 
years’ ol active practice at the Bar on the Criminal side, 
(in) Adequate knowledge of Hindi. 

7. One Superintendent, Home for Able and Disabled 
Male Beggars, Delhi Administration. Post temporary but 
likely to continue. Post reserved for Scheduled Tribes/ 
Castes candidate; if no such suitable candidate available, 
will be treated as unreserved. Pay: — Bs. 425 —25 — 500 — 30 
080. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. Age: — 35 years and below. Quali- 
fications: Essential — (i) Degree of a recognised l T ni versify 
in a Social K< lence subject, e.g. Sociology, Economics, 
Anthropology, or Polities, (ii) Diploma in Social Work of 
a recognised University / Institution, (iii) About fn c years’ 
experience ol social work. 

8 . One Executive Engineer (Meohanioal), Department 
of Lighthouses and Lightships, Ministry of Transport and 
Communioations. Post temporary but likely to continue. 
Post icscrved for Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidate if 
such suitable candidate is available otherwise treated aN 
unreserved. Pay Bs. 700-40—1,100 — 50/2 — 1 ,250 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate. Ago: — 40 years and below.. Qualifications: 
Essontial—ti) Degree in Mechanical Engineering: of recog- 
nised University or equivalent, (ii) About 5 years’ 
experience in responsible capacity in reputable mechanical/ 
eleH,ri* , al workshop m installation and maintenance of 
internal combustion engines, generators, motors and 
associated electrical machinery. 

9. Agricultural Economist, Himachal Pradesh. Post 
temporary but likely to continue. Other things being 
equal, preference will be given to Scheduled Castes /Tribes 
candidate. Pay:— Rs. 250—25-550/25—760. Higher 
initial j>ay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Ag0i—35‘ years and below. QuallftoattonSi ElMntMl- 
(i) M.Se. (Agriculture) in Agricultural Economics or M.A. 
in Economics with specialisation in Agricultural Economics 
of a recognised university, or equivalent qualifications, 
(jv), About three years’ experience in planning and manage- 
ments of (arms. 


10. One Assistant Director (Chemical). Govam^ 
Tbst Mouse, Aliporo, Directorate General of 8uimifa l * n 

Dtfeptsait. Post pehnanent but appointment will bo / ? 
on temporary basis in lien vacancy. Pay:_R s< jr M) 7;^ 
450—30-000 — 35 — 670— E.B. — 35 — 950. Higher 

to specially qualified and experienced candidate, a an. Pa 
years and below. Qualifications : Essential Mu.w 
equivalent Honours degree in Chemistry (pure 01 a ,, u , ’ 
or Industrial Chemistry or Chemical Technology (or) 
or equivalent diploma in Chemical Engineering 
nised University/ Institute, (ii) About five yo Hrs ' 
tieal experience in Industry or laboratories deahrw 1 M 
analysis and investigation of paints, enamels, L U1U lli 


varnishes, etc. 


II. One Lsoturer In Dairy Miorobloiogy, Dairy gci^ 
CoWAge, National Dairy Research Institute. p 0 m 

porary but likely to become permanent. Post reserve*! 
Scheduled Tribes/Castes candidate if such suitable vmui 
date is available, otherwise treated unreserved. Paw. 
Bs. 325 — 15 — 475 — K.B. — 20—575. Higher initiay pai * 
specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age; 
years and below. QuillflcationS : Essential — Master s de^ 
m (’hemirtry/ Biochemistry /Microbiology / Agiii ultural 
1 ms try/ Food Chemistry (or) degree in Science with 
graduate degree or diploma in Food Technology and <1 
least one years research or laboratory experience \] 
iui( rohiology of milk. 


12. Four posts In Hlmaohal Pradesh Forest Servioi 
Class I. Posta temporary but likely to become permanent 
One post reserved for Scheduled Castes/Tribes candidate 1 
such suitable candidate is available, otherwise all post 
Ueated unreserved. Note. — Other things being equal 
bona fide lesidents of Himachal Pradesh would be pi el erred 
PS*!— Its. 3.50-40—750—40 — 950 — 50 — 1,200 Ihgke 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidates 
Ago: — 35 years and below. Qualifications: Essential 
(1) Associate Diploma of the Forest Research Jiistitun 
and Colleges, Debra Dun or equivalent, (ii) About 3 years 
exerience m a .gazetted post in a ioiest department. 


13. Two Photographers, Photo Division, Ministry 0 
Information and Broadcasting. Posts temporary, bu 
likely to continue. Both the posts reserved tor Schedule* 
Ca Ntes/ Tribes candidates, if such suitable candidates avail 
uhle; otherwise treated as unreserved. I11 addition u 
interview, candidates may be asked to give pun la a 
demonstration of their skill in photography details ot wind 
will tollow in due course. Pay: — Bs. 400 — 25 — 500— 3M 59f 
— E.B. — 30 — 800. Ago:— 40 years and below. Quaiifi 
cations: Essential — (i) Good general education, (ii) Alum; 
three years’ experience in various branches ol photogmpm 
including experience m press photography in a news o: 
publicity organisation of standing, with good tlieorolica 
and practical knowledge ol dark room work. 

14. Two Junior Arohltoots in the Military Enginet 
service, Ministry of Defence. Posts temporary but likeh 
to continue indefinitely. One post for Scheduled 

and one post for Scheduled Tribes candidates rose? veil » 
such suitable candidates ure available, otherwise ueaiei 
unreserved. Payr — Rs. 700 — 40 — 1 ,100 — 50/2 — l.-W 
Higher initial pay to sjiecially qualified and cxpeiienm 
candidates. Age:— 45 years and below. Qualification: 
Essential — (i) A.R.l.B.A. or equivalent qualification (or ; 
degree in Architecture of recognised Unhersity (° r 
Government Diploma in Architecture of J. J. School 0 
Arts (or) National Diploma in Architecture of All Inuu 
Council of Technical Education, (ii) About fi\c u‘» rs 
experience of drawifig office or in architect’s firm. 


15. Forty-five Assistant Engineers, Ministry «f R,K ; 
ways. Posts tertptwery but likely to continue. Six pu* 11 
reserved for Scheduled Caste* . anti three lor Scheduled 
Tribes if auch suitable candidates are available. WfT 
Rs. 400 — 400 — 4 50 — 30 — GOO — 35 — 070-rE . B. — 35 - 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experirnta 
candidates. Agei— Between 25 and 35 years for ” 
including Government* servants. QtiaMicaMmS: 

(i) Degree in Civil Engineering of recognised University 
equivalent qutfliftmions. <ii) 1 About 3 year>’ cxi^rifn 
as a Civil Engjtt«8r. ' . 



105 


1UB . r ii] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 



•H ' 


one 0urfct*r (Civilian) In the Ministry of Defence* 

j U^manent. Pay:— Rs. 4C)0— 400^50— 3(>-M300^^ 
— 950. Higher initial pay to specially quail- 
K'Tind experienced candidate. AgSi— -35 years and below, 
^liftoatlonei Eteewtlal— (i) Degree in Engineering or at 
second clans Master’s or equivalent Honours degree 
Mathematics or Physics or Geology or Geography, 01 
lfl ' n , s ed University, (ii) About five years’ experience ot 
rCC ^ov work /map or chart compilation. 


r Five Ataiatant Directors of Training/ Vloe Principal, 
*Vmi Training Institute for Instructors In the Dlrec- 
General of Employment and Training, Ministry ot 

Labour and Employment. One post permanent but will be 
■Vj UIl temporary basis as the incumbent is on deputation 
i "four oo9ts temporary but likely to become permanent. 

uost is reserved tor Scheduled Caste /Scheduled Tribes 
ndidutes. Pay* — Its. 700 - 40 - 1.1CH) - .50/2 - .1.150 
V, V, r initial pay to *periall> qualified and experienced 
“StetSl Age i— Below 4.5 y.-ars. Qualification. « Easan* 

tial- 

ot 

know 

. nttn 2 c and / c. I l 

AKLKirience subMeiiuent to gra<luation in a supervisory 
^uacity in a workshop or tuctorv or concern of repute 
n^aired in production or about five years’ teaching 
experience in a recognised Technical Institution. 


I /j\ Degree m technical and/or Electrical Engineering 
^cognised University or equivalent, (ii) Working 
owledge cl engineering and building trades preferably of 
and/or small scale industries.' (iii) About 5 years’ 


Corrigendum 

junior Field Officer (Plywood) in the Devolopmont Wing, 
Ministry of Commeroo and Industry. In partial modifier 

lion of item No. 6 of Commission’s advertisement No. 4# 
of 2nd December 15X51, it is notified for general information 
that- the number of posts has increased to six. Other con- 
ations remain unchanged. Closing date extended to 20th 
March 1962. Candidates who applied in response to above 
advertisement need not apply again. 


Corrigendum 

Eleven Medical Referees, Employees’ State Insurance 
Corporation, Ministry of Labour and Employment. In par- 

mhI modification oi item No. 0 ot Commission’s advertise- 
,, 1 -nt No. 7 published on 17th February 1962, it is notified 
ot general mlonnaiinn that the scale ot pay of the post 
nul flu* rate ot non-practising allowance have been revised 
is indicated below: — Scale Rs. 400 — 25 — 500 — 60 — 590- • 
K It —60- 800 — K. B. — 60—860 — .‘15 — 900 plus non-practising 
1 1 Iowan ce of 2*5 per cent, of pay subject to a minimum ot 
IN 150 and maximum ot Rs. 400 per month. Closing date 
•'tended to 2nd April 1902. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WE8T BENGAL 

Benerai instructions to candidates applying In response to 
advertisements issued by the Commission for reorult- 
ment to posts of “ Selection". 

(l) Instructions regarding submission of application. - 

Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
ffl ll he available from the office of the Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor), 
Alipore, Calcuua-27, personally or on sending a large self- 
uidressed envelope with stamps sufficient to cover the 
Wage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 

copies of the prescribed form may apply on any similar 
typed (not handwritten) form showing exactly the word- 
wd spacing of the sample form published in the 
Calcutta Gazette” of the let September 1955, provided 
the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ own handwriting. 


Co mmis s io n accepts only the age of a candidate as 
recorded in the Matriculation or the Secondary School 
Final /Leaving Certificate. In the case of a female candi- 
date whose asm u not recorded in the Matriculation or 
School Final Certificate, any of the following evidence oft 
age *s accepted by the Commission: — 

1. A certificate from the Headmistress of the school 

which she last attended, showing her exact age as 
recorded in the school register. 

2. An affidavit regarding her age sworn by her father 

or mother or some other person in a position to 
know by having been present or heard of her birth 
at the time of occurrence. 

H. A certificate regarding her age, from a Member of 
the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who must, 
have known the candidate and her family, indicat- 
ing clearly the evidence on the basis of which he/ 
she satisfied himself/ herself on the point. 

(3) Fee.- Candidates must enclose with their apolica- 
tions a fee of Re. 5 In the form of a receipted ohatan 
from a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India 
under the head “XXXVI — Miscellaneous — Receipts of the 
Puhlic Service Commission, West Bengal”. Money order*, 
cheques, etc., in lieu of treasury challans are not accepted 
Postal order, however, may be accepted from candidates. 
They should be crossed and made payable to “The Secre- 
tary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal”. No appli- 
cation will be considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application fee. 

Candidates abroad may deposit their application fees 
with the High Commissioner of India or the Embasey, as 
tb* <*** may he, and obtain receipts for the same, which 
wi» have to be attached to their applications to be sub- 
mitted to the Commission. 

Candidates in Government service should make «ure 
before depositing fee that their applications will be forward- 
ed by their superior officers. In no case will the fee paid 
with the application be refunded. 

The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced person from Pakistan. 

An indigent displaced person shall, in the first instance, 
pay ; the application fee prescribed for a gazetted poet 
advertised by the Commission but if he/she is selected for 
and appears at the interview, the fee paid by him/her will 
be refunded afterwards. 

Note. — “(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, e.g 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature in 
original. * 

(ii) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Soheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his appli- 
cation a certificate in original from a gazetted officer or a 
Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging to 
the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(iii) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion tee must furnish besides the evidence required under 
Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.” 

(4) Address.— -Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address 


it *1 , Fartl °ularg and certificates required.— Candidates 

would furnish evidence of their’ age, qualifications and 
Wious experience together with certificates written not 
o f e than one year prior to the' date of their application*, 

■ “Sponsible persons, testifying to their private 


(5) Canvassing. — Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify titim 
for appointment. ’ Spontaneous recommendation "Mm' 
lidftoin 'inUfrfesMd* In th% candidates or otherwise know* 
to tfcrem will be disregarded. * 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 


10(i 


[Part ]] 


(6) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation), in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 

Candidates serving under Government or a local or 
Statutory Body should submit an advance copy in the pres- 
cribed form. The application fee should in such cases be 
attached to the advance copy and not to the original. The 
candidature of such applicants may not however be con- 
sidered if the original applications do not reach the Com- 
mission's office within a fortnight from the closing date. 
Unless applications in original or advance copies with 
application fees are received within the closing date, late 
applications may be rejected. 


A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Alipore, the '27th January 1961. 


Advertisement No. 10 


Award of a State Scholarship for 1961-62 in Applied 
Mathematics 

APPLICATIONS arc invited tor a State Schplai '■hip to be 
awarded during 1901-62 lor Advanced Post-Graduate Study 
abroad in Applied Mai hematics. 

‘2. The award of this scholarship, which is tenable (or 
three years, will be subject to rules regulating the award 
of State Scholarship oi any other rules framed in this 
connection I min time io time, 

3. The selected candidate will he given a M'hulai ship, 
the exact Milne of which will he fixed according to the 
place ot instruction, viz., €100 per annum to the Scholar 
at Oxford ami Cambridge and £400 per annum at other 
universities and also an additional sum of £25 jut annum 
will he given to pay for incidental expenses tor books, 
study tours, etc. Besides, the student will bp provided 
with free second class sea passage both wavs and will also 
he given an equipment allowance ot Rs. 500 beioro depar- 
ture from India. 

4. Government servants holding substantive' appoint- 
ment and students already abroad are ineligible to apply. 

5. Qualifications:- (i) A first class Master’s degree in 
Applied Mathematics. Or, A first class Honours degree m 
Mathematics with second class Master’s degree in Applied 
Mathematics; (ii) Age not less than 19 years or more 
than 25 years on the 1st July 1961, the upper age limit 
being rehixahJo up to .‘10 years for candidates with excep- 
tionally high qualifications; (iii) Good character: <iv) Good 
physique, free Ironi organic defects and bodily infirmity 
and ability to hear the climate ol the country to which the 
candidate may he sent; (v) Domicile of West Bengal. 

C. Candidates must submit with their applications duly 
attested copies ol two testimonials from the authorities of 
the university or insitution where they last studied. They 
should also give names of two releiees who must not be 
related to them and who are in a position to testily ironi 
their personal knowledge as to the candidates’ fitness tor 
the proposed course oi study. They should also produce 
evidence that since obtaining their degrees they have kept 
up their studies and that they are liklv to benefit ironi a 
course of higher training. 

7. The selected '‘amlidate will be required to enter into 
an agreement undertaking to serve the Government »i 
West Bengal mr a period of five years, if required, or to 
take up for a similar period other comparable employment, 
il so directed bv Government on his/her return alter com- 
pletion of ihe course ot instruction. 

8. Apply to Secret:! i y with a Treasury Cbalan oi Rs. 5 
under head “XXX VI -Miscellaneous— Receipts of Public 
Service Commission. West Bengal’’, or a Crossed Postal 
Order of Rs. 5 payable to “Secretary, Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal”. Application* art to bo motfo, In 
triplicate, on tho proscribed form obtainable from the office 


of the Commission, Anderson House (ground fl 
Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a °°V’ 
addressed envelope with postage stamp of 35 nP. Those u 
intend to take application forms and/or submit the ai l 
cations personally should do so between 10-15 a m ! • 
:l-0n p.m. on lull working days and between ](Vk’ 
and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. a,ln 


Candidates in Government service wdio arc eligible «}, f i ■ 
make sure betoie depositing f<e that their applications 
be foi warded by their superior officers. In no case w ,n .j 
tee deposited be refunded. 1 l|,< 

The Commission may remit fee in case of genum 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons Ironi Pakistan 

An indigent displaced person shall, however, p Wv 
prescribed application foe in the first instance, but ii \ 
she is selected tor and appears at the interviews the 
paid by him/her will be retunded afterwards. ’ ( 

A displaced person seeking remission of the applied, 
lee must furnish with his/her application satisfacton 
evidence that he/she is a bona fide displaced person i n , 
Pakistan, e.g., refugee regulation card or a eertiflm! 1 
horn a gazetted officer nr a Member ot Parliament or Si-V 
Legislature, in original, as well as a corticate (m origin * h 
from a District Officer or a gazetted officer or a Me t .ih M 
ol Parliament or State Legislntuic to show that be/she 
not in a position to pay the prescribed ice. * 

9. Candidate* must furnish with their applications ^ 

(i) A statement of the course ol studies pursued in In*],, 
m the last examinations; (ii) Two passport size phot,! 
graphs; (iii) Evidence oi age; (iv) Evidence of edm-, 
tional qualifications; (\ ) A certificate from a registered 
liiedical practitioner testifying to their pbysica 1 fitness *»-] 
ability to bear the climate ot the country wheie thm 
propose to go. 


10. Address: — Candidates should give thiir pivsnii 
address and should communicate at once any submuicn* 
change of address. 


Closing date— The 23rd March, 1962. 


A. C. ROY, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Jlr-ng.nl 
Alipore, the 20th February, 1902. 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
HOOGHLY 

Insolvency Case No. 6 of 1961 

NOTICE is hereby given 1 lint Sbri Rabmdra Nath HImi 
son oi late Purna Chandra Bhar. of Serjmporc, distnc 
Hooghlv. was adjudged irisohent on 6(h February 19(52 an 
that he has been directed to apply for final discharge al’tn 
six months Ironi the date of adjudication. 

A. SYAM, District Judge. 

4 (191-J) 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE, 4TH COURT, 
ALIPORE 

Insolvency Application No. 27 of 1061 

PURSUANT to H petition, dated 16th June 19T.1, fiM 
against Soinendra Kumar Ghosh of 11A Sarat Gliosh 
Street, police-station Entally district 24 -Parganiitf, 
debtor, and on the application of Gajadhar Agarwalla o< i 
Doyhatta Street, Calcutta-?, creditor and on reading thr 
application of the creditor and hearing his lawyer it is 
ordered that the debtor be and the said debtor is heiobv 
adjudged insolvent. 

It is further ordered that the debtor do apply for 
discharge within 31st January 1963. 

Dated this 26th day of February 1962. 

N. G. CHOUDHURI, Sub-Judge. 

(194-1) 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 8, 1962 


107 


p,*jtT HI 


ROAD CE88 NOTIFICATION 

.j i* district Board of Murshidabad at its Special Meeting 
, ll Du the 24th February 11X>2 resolved, under section 46 
, i]n» Bengal Local Sell-Government Act, to levy road 
,! v ,ii the district of Murshidabad during the year 1962-63 
l '\i„ jiiaxitinun rate ot six pies in the rupee on the annual 

falw 1,1 lan ' 1 ''' CtC - 

S. M. GHOSH MAIUK. Chnirmnu. 
M.nainuoie, the 24th February 1962. 

’’ / I Cm \ »>\ 


♦ 

HAMXUATAR AGARWALA, LL.U., intends to be 
enrolled ns an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(203—4) 


SHR1 A IU'N KUMAR RUTTA, ULIU, intends to be 
enrolled ns nn Advocate of the High Court at Calcutta. 

(204— 1 1 


\\\ZLA ROB, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
tilt orate of the Calcutta High Court. 

* UI ‘ (169—4) 


MAUIirKAR DAVE, LL.B. ? intends to be enrolled as 
.in Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 
an (170—4) 


H 1 ANIL KUMAR DATTA, LL.B., intends to be 
♦ , milled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court 

(171—4) 


\M1YA KUMAR MUKHERJEE, LL.1L, intends to be 
. o, nulled as an A<lvocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(172 — 4) 


Y\\L UORAL CHOVVDU URV, LL.B., intends to be 
in ,)1 li d as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(179—4) 


\l!l\\ MUKHERJEE, LL.1L, intends to be enrolled as 
,i \d vacate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(186 — 4) 


ini, (O)BINPA BANER.IKE, LL.B.. intends to ho enrolled 
n an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 

(197 — 4) 


OhOK NATH DAN, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
'h«K!ite of the Calcutta High Court. 

(198-4 ) 


4RAL CHANDRA DAS, LL.B., intends to he enrolled as 
a Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 199“-4 ) 


^AV KUMAR BANDYOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends to 
f l ‘ n,, °lled as a. i Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

' (200—4') 


(41 AX DR A DAS, LL.B., intends to be enrolled ns 
‘dvocate of the Calcutta High Court,. 

(201 \) 


A LI, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
jr ' ,le the Calcutta High Court. 


Company Petition No. 225 of 1901 
Company Application No. 229 of 1901 

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
Ordinary Original Civil Jurisdiction 

In the Matter of the Companies Act, 1950 

And 

Ji» ihe Mat t«u ol Xiti Properties Private Limited. 

\nd 

Xm Properties Private Limited, Petitioner 

NOTICE is hereby given that tin* Ordei of the High 
Court at Calcutta, dated the 5th day of Fchruuiy 1902, 
continuing reduction oi tlm capital of the uhovennined 
Company from Rs. 5,(X),()00 divided into 500 shares ol 
Rs. l.tKX) each, to Rk. .50,000 divided into 500 shares ol 
R'* 100 each, and the minute approved by the Court 
showing, with resp<x*t to the share capital oi tin* above- 
Company as altered, the several particulars required by the 
nlmve Act, were registered by the Registrar o| Companies 
on the 1st day ot March 1902. 

Dai C4 1 this 1st day of March 1902. 


M. L. DHUR, 

Attorney lor Xiti Properties Private Limited. 

(205 — 1 ) 


Coin puny Petition No. 5 ot 1902 

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
Original Jurisdiction 

In i ho Matter of the Companies Act, 1950 
And 

In the Mailer oi D. C. Dhimau ,md ItriJheis (Pmalu) 
Limited. 

NOTICE OF PETITION 

A PETITION under section 133 ot the Companies Act, 
1950, tor winding up of the ahovcuanicd company was 
presented by Dharam Chand Dhiman, Duector, on the 9th 
day ol January 1902 and the said petition is tixed for 
hearing before the Company Judge cm the 2nd April 1902. 
Any person supporting or opposing the said petition should 
send to the petitioner's Achoeatc, notice ol his intention, 
signed by him or his advocate with his name and address, 
so as to reach the petitioner's advocate not later than 
(i\c days hetorc* the date fixed tor the healing ot the 1 
petition. Where he seeks to oppose the petition, in. 
grounds of opposition or a copy ot his affidavit shall he 
I urn i shed with such notice. A copy ol’ the petition will he 1 
hi rni. shed by the undersigned to any person icquiring the 
aim* on payment ot the* prescribed charge’s ioi the same. 

Dated the 28th February 1962. 


S. I). DUBE 

Supi emc Coiirl Advocate tor tin* petit miiei 
“Salisbury House” 

3/1 Bankshall Stroc*t, 2nd Hour. 
Calcutta. 

(206 — 1; 


103 


Till v C ALCUTTA UAZKT'IK. MARCH 8, 1962 


; Pait ■ 


NOTICE 


FARMEN AND CO. PRIVATE LTD., (IN LIQUIDATION) 

NOTICE K Iicn'liv riven m ii'irsii.imc ol t''»' l,t lii; ' 
ComiMiiio-. Art, litVi, that a Onicial .Mftl ny <>• tli ■ shan 1 - 
laildi-rs anil a Ilifrt ini' ol ciflilt.i- of the ( >ou. irv wil '>'* 
hold at !) (iariahat Road. CalrnlU. on Oilin'. the- l-Rii 
April !0f>2. at N si. in and II 00 a.tn. respect i\ eh ioi the 
(>ii! post 1 ol bmiitf list* account Mote the hum Imps anJ 
oivino any explanation tbeipol. 

K L, P.WDEY, Liquid. .tor . 


1R Do\c r lame, Calcutta, 
The lOt li February 1002. 


( 1 93 — 1 ) 



IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, i 95e 
AMO 


SMALL SCALE TAR DISTILLERS' ASSOCIATION 
LlP/i ITED. 

\T ti i n 1 < neet li: o' the* cum hms <*f the ,l> i ( r ,,, 

i,, p c "i ' end ..Cl a; ’ ‘ F K. P.i’d Axi-r • . V* 

• « , at. u .'a 1 i m l' r’cai \nr\ r K\l, t'e 
it ' ' «• i' a 1 v\ p ■ • ( !. 

, > i h • t V* C - ti . » 'i:v lv \* aunu n ,> -- 1 

, . p - i ’’mi . r ' v, itdir." up *i a ■ t th t ( si 
s - , . 'ha if j v . 1 Anouut'mt, cl '■/'! t y j’. 

• ti < • , i tt' I Li* appoint'! L p i ;loi < ; ( 

i ]t j ( 1 1 y ■: i ■( ’ *' n (1 J”. i » cs ii\ c hii*t |r, | , 

..,11 t . , a n* r « *■ for t h“ \\ lc! n * up \, , j t A \\ 

p " !r ii i U 1 *37 el the ( o up ’lues A( t i ; 

. v ■ .ii ,v f.*’ lc!) XX Ji Jlll’J lip." 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT 
AND 


IN THE MATTER OF MEHTA INDUSTRIES 
PRIVATE, LTD. 


(In Voluntary Liquidation) 

I JTH m AXT TO SECTION 48:, (JM 

HY a Special Resolution passed on the 1st day ol March 
llK)2, tlie aUnenanicd Company iue pnt mio Mfonheis 
Voluntaiv Liquidation and Sim l*. N. Mukeiiea of OI<i 
Post Office Street, Calcutta- 1, was appointed Liquidator on 
a fixed remuneration ot Its. 100 onh 


The 2nd Match 1002. 


M. d. MKIiTA, Duet tor. 


j PTRSIANI to SKtTlON ‘3100)1 

\<)TICK is ei\ en i hat I, P N Mukei iea ol 11 Old Tom 
( mice Street, Calcutta, have heeii appointed Liquidator at 
the Kxt i a-Oidinarv Meeting of (lie Company held on the 
1st dav of Maid, 1002. and l heiehy +i\cn notice to the 
Creditors thai t haxe lived the 2nd day ol April 1002, on 
in he'n! (* \x Inch date their debts and/or cluim are to he 
pimed otherwise the\ will he excluded Horn the henelit m 

distrihutions made. . 

For and on hehall oi 
Mehta Industries Pmato Ltd 
(In Voluntary Liquidation) 

P. N. MTKEIUKA. Liquidatoi. 

The 2nd Mai eh J0h2 


R 11. 11AN KIM F.R, Clnunmu, 

; fif Is. *1 i\ oi Maidi 1002. 


( 1IA 


MEf'DEP :i* VOLUNTARY W IN o-ING UP 


Entire. «* \ppuirdmcnl of Liquidator pursuant to 
Section t>t6 


Vh, V «• 

tun pan;. . Small Seat 

• Tai I > ' 

■stdi. f X 

' 1 . 1 If 

•i Limited. 




\ J. 1 111 c 

.» R.t ,nie- s ■ 

Hux 'l*; 1 

nd I). • 

Ou'm ( 

1 nil 1 

'i . 1 1 and ull.ed 

p I n t ! 1 h Is 

aiM..ii;i-i 

t Ik :ik"m 

/whh.” , 

oi ilejjisteied 

Ofll'-'*. 1 

A0 L L 

Paul Ao 


Calculi h 

X;,; lU . mi-: Addiess ot Liquidatm' Amid) Sj.m >, 
20/1 Lid IL i St i eel, Calcutta-1. 

Date of appointment 21th t chrua i \ L)0- 

Hy whom appointed : Coinpun.N 


(192 -It 



I tegtstsfvd No. C207 






flALGUNA 24 ] 


THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 1962 


[ 8AKA 18*3 


PART II— Advertisements, Notices 


irofiodure regarding sending Manuscripts for publication of Advertisements, Notices, cte., in the 

“Calcutta Gazette ' 1 (Part II). 

1. Manuscripts should be properly edited and complete in itself. 

2. Manuscripts should always be typewritten on one side of the paper. The name of signatory should be typewritten 
tlow the signature. 

3 Manuscripts intended for advertisement in the next issue of l( Calcutta Gazette” shall be received by Publication Sales 
ifflce of New Secretariat Buildings, 1 Hastings 3treet, Calcutta, up to 3-30 p. m. on Friday and at Head Office at Aliporo up to 
1 a. m. on Saturday. 

4 . All costs shall be paid in advance and deposited along with the manuscripts. 

5 Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING (PUBLICATION 
RANCH), WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS, ALIPORE. 

The press shall not be held responsible for delay in publication of any advertisement due to the non-oosorvanco of the 
iriitructions detailed above. 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 

Advertisement No. 10 

^PLICATIONS are invited for undermentioned posts 
ti mu Indian citizens and persons of Indian origin migrated 
1 1 miii Pakistan with intention of permanently settling in 
India. Milijccts of Nepal, Sikkim or State oi Pondicherry, 
.'•mi |>ci .-.on,', domiciled in Cion, Raman and Din. Age 
limits relaxable for Government servants except where 
otherwise specified. Upper age limits relaxable by 5 years 
ini' Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes candidates. No 
ihLuiLmui loi others, save in exceptional circumstances, 
mid will m no c<?se be relaxed beyond three years. Quali- 
fications relaxable at Commission's discretion in case of 
candidates otherwise well qualified. Particulars and appli- 
1 -‘I “''ii loiinx obtainable from Secretary, Union Public Ser- 
uu* ( ominission, Post Pox No. 18(3, New Delhi. Request 
hu lonns must specify name ol post and should hi* 
aoompanied by self addressed unstamped envelope ior 
l 'at h post at least of size 0" X 1 " indicating thereon name 
“ r h'ts lor which forms are required. Closing date for 
u °i|'l oi application with treasury receipt or crossed 
I udm n Postil Order for Rs. 7.50 nP. (1.87 nP. for Sche- 
'luJcd rustic and Scheduled Tribes) the 0th April 10(32 (23rd 
10(12 lor applicants from abroad). Separate applica- 
|! on *dii separate lee required for each post. Candidates 
U)h,af l may apply on plain paper if forms are not available 
a ' 1 " 'I'posit f ( »(‘ Aitli local Indian Embassy. If reipiired, 
'"aulid.iteA must appear for personal interview. 

* Two Junior Research Officers, Armed Forces Head- 
quarters, Ministry of Defence. One* post permanent and 
’'H' 1 porn rv but likely to become permanent. Teni])orarv 
r l '^ened lor Scheduled C’astes/ Tribes candidate if such 
I 1 ; i' J ^ ' amlidate is available otherwise treated unroserv- 

r Pa V;- IK 550—25 — 5(H)— 30— 590— E.B. — 30—800 E.B. 
C" j ' “-HRR — :to —900. Higher initial pay to specially quali- 

( u ml experienced candidates. Age: — 35 years and 


below. Qualifications s Essential — (i) Master’s or equiva- 
lent Honours degree in Mathematics of recognised Univer- 
sity. (ii) Research experience in any branch of Pure 
Mathematics. 

- One Assistant Physiolst (Instruments) at the Indian 
Agricultural Research Institute. Post temporary bub like- 
l\ to continue. Post reserved for Scheduled Tribes candi- 
date il such suitable candidate is available otherwise 
l rested unreserved. Pay: — Rs. 350 25—500 30—59(1— 
E. R. — 30 — 800 E.B.— 830— 35— 900. Higher initial pay to 
specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age: — 35 
> mirs and below Qualifications*. Essential — (i) Master’s 
degree in Physics or Applied Physics with specialisation in 
Electronics or Radio Engineering. (ii) About two years’ 
experience ol working in electronic workshop. 


3 . One Development Officer (Training and Social Edu- 
cation), Hlmaohal Pradesh Administration. Post tempo- 
rary. Other things being equal, preference will be given to 
Scheduled Castes/ Tribes candidate's. Pay:— -Rs. 250 — 25 — 
500. Higher uiitiaJ pay to specially qualified and oxperi- 
« need candidate. Age: — 35 years and below. Qualifications! 
Essential — Diploma in Rural Service's ol a recognised 
Institution. Or Degree in a Social Science, subject of a 
recognised University, e.g., Sociology, Social work, etc. Or 
Degree* oi a recognised University with special training in 
Social Education or in training of officials and non-officials 
lor Community Development work. 

4. One Research Officer (Artificial Insemination), Indian 
Veterinary Research Institute, Ministry of Food and 
Agriculture. Post permanent but appointment will be 
made on temporary bu#is in lien vacancy. Post reserved 
tor Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidate if such suitable can- 
didate is available otherwise treated unreserved. Pay: — 
Rs. 7(H) — 4(> — 1,100 — 50/2 — 1,250. Higher initial pay to 



110 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 15, 1962 


[Part q 


specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age i-— 45 
years and below. Qualifications: Essential— (i) Post- 
graduate degree in Airmal Genetics, Physiology or Bioche- 
mistry, or degree in Veterinary Science, or equivalent, 
(li) Post-graduate training in Artificial Insemination, 
(m) About five yews' experience of artificial insemination 
work. 


5. One Senior Technical Officer (Sugar Technology) for 
the National Sugar Institute, Ministry of Food and Agri- 
culture, Post temporary but likely to continue for about 
three years. Post reserved for Scheduled Tribes candidate 
if such suitable candidate is available otherwise treated 
unreserved. Pay: — Rs. 700- 10 — 1,1 HO — 50/2— 1,250. High- 
er initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candi- 
date. Age:— 45 years and ladow. Qualifications: Essential 
- (i) Master's or equivalent Honours degree in (’hemistry/ 
(’hemical Engineering or (’hemical Technology or Agricul- 
tural ('hemistry oi nvo -nisetl University. Or Associatesbip 
ot l.A.R.l. in Agrici.ltmal Chemistry. Or Degree or 
diploma iti Sugar Technology from recognised llnivorsity/ 
Institute. (ii) About live years’ practical experience of 
work in a sugar tueWrv. 

(j. One Minor Forest Produce Officer In Forest Depart- 
ment, Himachal Pradesh Administration. Post temporary 
but likely to become permanent. Other tilings being equal 
Scheduled Castes/ Tribes candidate would be preferred. 
Pay* — Us. 250- -25— 550- 25 — 750. Higher initial pay to 
specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age: 35 
years mu] below. Qualifioations: Essential— (i) Master’s 
degree in Botany or Agriculture, or equivalent, (ii) About 
three years’ experience of, or specialisation in the cultiva- 
tion of medicinal plants and herbs. 

7. One Senior Scientific Officer, Grade 1, Ministry of 

Defence. Post temporary, but likely to be retained on 
permanent busis. Post reserved for Scheduled Castes can- 
didate; if no such suitable candidate available, will be 
treated as unreserved. Pay: — Us. 700— 50 — 1,250. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age: — Preferably above A5 years Qualifications: Essen- 
tial — (i) Research Degree or 1st Class M.Rc. Degree of a 
recognised University in Pharmacology followed by high 
class research. Or A degree in Medicine' of a* recognised 
University, (ii) About three years’ research experience/ 
training in Pharmacology. 

8. One Lecturer for the Institute of Armament Studies, 
Ministry of Defence. P<M temporary but likely to become 
permanent. Post reserved for Scheduled Castes /Tribes 
candidate if such suitable candidate is available otherwise 
treated unresened. Pay: — Us. 400 — 10—800 — 50 — 950. 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate. Age: — Prelerablv 40 years n«nd below. Qualifi- 
cations: Essential — (i) \t least second class Muster's 
degree in Mathematics of recognised University or equiva- 
lent. (ii) About, two years’ teaching experience. 

9. One Junior Instructor (Communications and Relief 
Operations) Central Emergency Relief Training Institute, 
Ministry Of Home Affairs. Post temporary hut likely to 
continue indefinitely. Pay: — Its. 050- 25 -575. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age: — 15 .> ears am] below. Qualifications: Essential-— (i ) 
Degree, preferably in Science, of recognised University. 
(Rola>\abl<* in the case ot Commissioned Officers /. I .('.O.'s 
or equivalent rank in the Defence Services with at least 
5/10 years’ experience icspectively to their credit), (ii) 
Should have qualified at a recognised Signal /Communica- 
tions Course in both Wireless and Tunc Comnmnicniirrris ol 
the Defence Services/ Police Traminu Establishment 


10. One Junior Teohnlcai Officer (Chemical Engineering), 
National 8ugar Institute, Ministry of Food and Agriculture. 

Post temporary but likely to continue. Post reserved lor 
Scheduled Tribes candidate if simh *uitable candidate is 
available otherwise treated unreserved. Pay: — Its 850 — 
25 — 500 — 110 — 590 -E.B. -80 8(H) E. B. --80 -880- .‘15— 
900. Higher iniLial puv to specially qualified and experi- 
enced candidate. AgO:- 85 years and below. Qualifications: 
Essential — At least second • lass degree in Chemical Engi- 
neering or Master’s degree in Chemical Technology of recog- 
nised University. 


11. Chief Financial Resources Section of the Economy 
Division, Planning Commlgfton. Post temporary* but lik« 
]y to continue. Pays-Ks. ] ,(>00—1 00-2, 000. flight 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate 
Age:— Preferably below 50 years for oil including Govern- 
ment servant.:. Qualifications:’ Essential — (i) At least 2nd 
class Master’s degree in Economies of a recognised univer- 
sity. (ii) About ten years’ experience of conducting and 
guiding research in a responsible capacity in university, o r 
institution ot training and research and/or Govermncni 
office in the field i/f economic and financial problems ( fm ^ 
1 1 silt'd papers to be submitted as evidence of research). 


12. Agricultural Statistical Officer, Himachal Pradesh 
Administration. Post temporary, but likely to continue 
Other tilings being equal. Scheduled Castes/ Tribes cand,. 
dates will be ] -inferred. Pay: — Rs. & r >() • 10- —(530 — 40— H7(j 
Higher initial pay to specially (pialified and experienced 
candidate. Age: —85 \ ears i*nd below. Qualifications: 
Essential- (i) At least 2ml class Master’s degree in Statis*. 
ties, or Mathematics (with Statistics), or Agriculture ol 
recognised university, or equivalent. (ii) Post-gnuluntc 
training in Agricultui.il Statistics. (iii) About live ycaiV 
experience in col lection, analysis and interpretation 
Agi icultwral Statistics. (iv) Working knowledge of Hindi 


18. One Professor (Mechanioal Engineering), Naval 
College of Engineering, I.N.S. Shivaji, Lonavla, Ministry 
of Defence. Post ] cinancut. Pay: — Rs. 1,100 -50—1.2011 
— 100 -1.5(H). Highei initial pay t> specially qualifier! und 
experienced eandidat ' Age: — Not less than 85 years 
Qualifications: Essential -(i) Degree of a recognised’ I’m. 
vcrsity in Marine/ Met li.i*ni< al Engineering or Nauil A rein, 
lecture. (ii) Teaching '•x'lencnce up to Degree standard 


1 1 Director, Development Centre for Musical instru- 
ments, All India Handicrafts Board, Post temporary hut 
!ikel\ to continue. Othei things being equal. Scheduled 
i asles/Ti die*- candidate will be preferred. Pay: — Hs. 700 
40- | .101) 50/2 - 1,2V) Higher njiti.i-1 pay to sppcuilb 
(pialified and r-xnerienird can-l'date. Age: — 15 a ears and 
below'. Qualifications: Essential -u) Degree or Dqdoiiia 111 
fudiau AJusie of a recognised university/ institution (id 
\dequnte experience in production, development and 
research of musical iustn.ments i/t high precision. (mi 
Original work in the art oi Indian Music. 


15. Head of the Division of Microbiology, Indian Agri- 
cultural Research Institute, New Delhi. Post t«*nipi»i,m, 
but likely to continue Pay: — Rs. 1,800—60 — 1 000 Hi Din 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate 
Age: — 15 years and ‘below. Qualifications: Essentia* - i 
Doctorate based <>’ii work in any oi the major brand. •- ,.i 
Vgrieultuial Miciobinlogy. (ii) About t('M years’ ie i .*inli 
experience in one or more of the maioz branches ot \</n< n| 
lutal Microbiology , as evidenced bv published paper 


16. One Botanist, Soil Conservation Research Demons- 
tration and Training Centre, Ministry of Food and Agricul- 
ture. Posh temporary, but likely to continue indct.nitch 
Post reserved lor Scheduled Castes/Tribes candidate* r *:»li 
suitable candidate is available otherwise treated imicscfepftl 
Pay: -Its. 250—10- 800— 15— 150—25/2— 500 (sulqcct t« 
i evision m Hr* light of Pay (V/mmission’s recoinne ndutieno 
plus foreign allowance to Indian National as nndei 11 
posted at (’)intra (Nepal) Rs. 800 per month io M'uiml 
Officers; Rs. 225 per month to Single Officers. Hivtar 
initial pav to special ly qualified and experienced nwulid.ite 
Age: -Below 80 years. Qualifications: Essential oj 
Degree in Botanv or Agricultural Botany <f\ 

Unit ersitv. (u) About, two years’ practical e\perien<< 1,1 
Systematic Botany 


17. Otic Research Officer (Physics) in the Central W<u?r 
and Power Research Station, Poona, Ministry of Irrigation 
and Power. Post, permanent but appointment will )><' ""‘I 1 * 
on tempoiary fyasis in ben vacancy Post resen ed b* 
Scheduled Tnb(»s /('a -lies candidate if such suitable mut 
dale is available otherwise treated as unreserved Payr- 
Hs. 100- -10 800- 50—950. lligbi'i initial p*y to 

(pialified and experienced candidate Age: — 85 years .»«• 

below. Qualifications: Essential- (n At least secern! ,|:l ^ 
Master's di'greo in Physics with a special paper in trie lIlJ ' 
nicH, of recognised University or equivalent.. (ii) 
three years’ experience in Electronics, preferably m l ‘ (,,iue( ‘ 
t ion with Electrical Analogue Methods. 


Ill 


\ts uj 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, .MARCH 15, 1962 


CompHtr (Gazetteer), Ministry of SolentMo Research 

^'cultural « Affairs. Post temporary, but likely to con- 
M pay s— Rs. 700— 40— l,10ff^60/ 2—1,250. Higher 
U' u *‘; .. to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 

years and below. Qualiflcatlonsj Essential — (i) 
l * # , J ^r\>nd Class Master’s 


or equivalent Honours Degree 


it (ii) About three years’ experience of research 


;l K< on 4 ° n t 1 v j j enoe ' yliould be furnished. 


l * 


tan* 


Ten inspectors of Mines in the Office of the Chief 
'nflctor Of Mines, Ministry of Labour and Employment. 

n (M* permanent but apomtment to five nests will be 
^ I l°nii temporary basis in lieu vacancies and the rest on 
'' tncnt basis. Two posts each reserved tor Scheduled 
lint j Scheduled Tribes candidates if such suitable 
lMS are available, otherwise all ptvsts treated un- 
■^ncd ' pays— K*s. 90R--4B 1, 100— ,50 — 1.4(H). Higher 

' ' ij ( i \ to specially cpialitied and experienced candidates, 
lafl- lU'lovv 40 years for all including Government servants, 
luallftcations: Essential — (i) First class Mine Manager’s 
’ rtifieift e of Competency, (ii) Degree or Diploma in 
ihniHK °l recognised University or Institution, (iii) About 
UJ]1 rs’ mining experience including two years in a res- 
ioihilde capacity as Manager or Under-Manager. 


NOtiOO 


1. A certificate from tie Headmistress of the school, 

which she last attended, showing her exact age as 
recorded in the school register. 

2. An affidavit regarding her age sworn by her father 

or mother or some other person in a position to 
know by having been present or beard of hor birth 
at the time of occurrence. 

3. A certificate regarding her age, irom a Member of 

the Legislature or a gazetted officor, who must 
have kmnvM the candidate and her family, indicat- 
ing clearly me evidence on the basis of which he/ 
she satisfied himselt /herself on the point. 

(d) Fee.- Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of He. 6 in the lorm of a receipted chalan 
from a Government Treasury or the Reserve Rank of India 
under the head “XXXV 1 Miscellaneous — Receipts of the 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal”. Money order*, 
cheques, etc., hi lieu oi treasury challans are not accepted. 
I’ostal order, however, may he accepted from candidates. 
They should be crossed and made payable to “The Secre- 
tary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal”. No appli- 
cation will be considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application tee. 


Compiler (Gazetteer), Ministry of 8olentmo Research and 
Cultural Affairs. It is notified that item No. 6 of Commis- 
1( ms amcrtihcnient No. 7 published on 17th February 
Lilias been cancelled. Application fie will be refunded 
!< due course. 

Corrigendum 

One Senior Mechanical Engineer in the Delhi Milk Scheme, 

linistry of Food and Agriculture. In partial modification 
• Con. mission’s advertisement No. 8, item No. 8, pub- 
dud on 21th February 19(j2, it is notified for general 
'nimalioii that Hit age limit for the post is 15 years i>nd 
iow . jmuI not 55 years and below. Other conditions remain 
ncha ngt'il Closing date extended to 2nd April 1902. 


Candidates abroad may deposit their application fees 
with the High Commissioner of India or the Embassy, as 
the case may ho, and obtain receipts tor the same, which 
will have to he attached to their applications to be sub- 
mitted to the Commission. 

Candidates m Government service should make «ure 
hetore depositing fee that their applications will be forward- 
ed by their superior officers. In no case will the fee paid 
with the application he refunded. 

The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced person from Pakistan. 


Corrigendum 

Tag investigating Officers in the Department of Company 
aw Administration, Ministry of Commerce and Industry. 

' } mi ial modification ol Commission’s advertisement No. 

, in-in No. Ki. published on 17th February 19(52, it is 
oulu' l lor general information that age limit, for these 
dsI- is ivhixnhlo lor Government servants. Closing date 
\t i -in I* •( l t </ 2nd A pi il MK>2. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


iinerai instructions to candidates applying In response ts 
advertisements issued by the Commission for recruit- 
ment to posts of “Selection**. 


d) instructions regarding submission of application. - 

ipMj'-auon.s are to be made on the prescribed ti/rm winch 
In* a*, a liable irom the office of the Public Service Com- 
p ,0, b W°- St Bengal, Anderson House (grou/.d floor). 
; ! j ,on '’ Haleutta-27, personally or on sending a. large self- 
uuits^d envelope with stamps sufficient to cover ihe 
n a ^ a ®xed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 

|" e I‘ ot ^ K ‘ prescribed form may apply on any similar 
P ( . r,ut handwritten) form showing exactly the word- 
‘ s Pacing ot the sample form published m the 
V 11 ” 1 Gazette” of the let September 1955, provided 
, " MI s are filled ui> in the candidates’ own handwriting. 

lu!,i? r ‘ icu , lar8 and certificates required. - Cn ml uia to. 

cvi.il, " n “ s 1 ev,llenc ® «f tlieir age, qualifications ana 
3r „ t| s e: d>«rience together with certificates written not 
m\ one year prior to the date of tlnur applications, 
aractJr pOIISlhle l ,er80n *b testifying lo their private 


Tho r 

lurly’,'""'! 8810 ' 1 rxcepts only the age ot a candidate a a 
ir.nl / 1 the _ Matriculation or the Scromlarv School 
lit H'l ( aV111 ^ Certificate. In the case ot a U-n.alc candi- 
M h'm i a /f ll -,. not record ed in the Matriculation or 
Me ar-iJl * ‘hcate, any of the following evidence of 
r *<epted by the Commission:— 


An indigent displaced person ehall, in the first instance, 
pay the application fee prescribed for a gazetted post 
advertised by the Commission but if he/ she is selected for 
and appears at the interview, the foe paid by him/her will 
he refunded afterwards. 

Note. — “(i) A displaced person claiming age contusion 
must lurnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that ho is bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, e.g , 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member of Parliament or State Legislatuie, in 
original. 

(u) A member of the Scheduled Cmste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming ago concession must furnish with his appli- 
cation a certificate m original from a gazetted officer or a 
Member of Pailiament or State Legislature belonging to 
the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 

(in) A displaced person seeking remission ot the applna- 
i Kin fee must furnish besides the evidence required under 
Note (i) nho\e, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or » Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not m a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.” 

(O Address. — Candidates should give t.heir present 
address and should communicate at once any sulp:e<pient 
change ot address 


(5) Canvar sing. — Any attempt on the part, of (-and. dates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify thorn 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation I mm 
fiorsons interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will he disregarded. 

(0) Applications f roin candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment, under ativ Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation), in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 



112 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAK <JW l>, IVW 


Candidates serving under Government or a local or 
Statutory Bodv should submit an advance copy in the pres- 
cribed form. ‘Tho application fee should in such cases be 
attached to the advance copy and not to the original. The 
candidature of such applicants may not however be con- 
sidered if the original applications do not reach the Com- 
mission’ s office within a fortnight from the closing date. 
Unless applications in original or advance copies with 
application fees arc received within the closing date, late 
applications may be rejected. 


A. (’. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


[Part 



candidate from appearing in Sections ‘A’ and ‘B’ nf 

iannninin Ilf ahi lift. . i( SlvOTnin odinn rtf a C*,, _ . • . . yi 


Associate Membership JSxamina<tion of the instituting 
Engineers (India). Ditirablfr—Experieiice of sinking k°* 
diameter Irrigation Tubewells. Age: — Not more than oS 

years on the 1st August 1962, relaxable in the case of 
candidate who has been in employ of the Central or+k 1 
State Government or of the D.V.C. or any other statute 
body recognised by tho Government for the purnnsu Tv 


cognised by ino uovernmemi ior tne purpose a 2 
who is not mit of such employment for more than a v 
on the said date, to the extent of the actual period si** 1 
continuously in such employment. The age limit is a i^ 
relaxable in the case of candidates who are otherwise vr*! 
qualified. e ‘ 


Closing date— The 31st Marsh 1962. 


Alipore, the 27th .January 196 1 . 


Advertisement No. 11 

APPLICATIONS are invited fiom Indian citizens for the 
lollmving posts 

(a) One English Mistress (Senior) Dow Hill Girls’ 
School, Kurseong, In the West Bengal General 8ervioe 

(Education). Post permanent. Men unsuitable. Pay: — 
IN. 325- -.10 - 175 35—1.000 per month. Question ot 
granting higher initial pay may bo considered in excep- 
tional cases. Free partly furnished quarters will be provid- 
ed; <><•( upici s share ol municipal lax and cost ol electru 
niricnt consumed being payable b\ tin* teacher. The 
in< ii in 1 k ii i to the post will be in charge ot a library and 
will he required to do the usual duties ol teachers in a 
hoarding school 

Qualificalions:--(i) A second class Honours or Master’s 
degree in Kn-lisli ol a recognised University; (ii) A 
diploma m Teaching; (in) Capacity to inspiie, organise and 
direct the teaching of English Com so m the School; (iv) 
lnt(»rest m drama' and debating. Ago:— Not more than 
30 years on the 1st April 1902 lehxnble in the case ot 
candidates possessing except lonallv high qualifications and 
also in the case of persons holding substantive appoint- 
ment m the Education Department W«H Bengal. 

Closing date- The 7th April 1062. 

(b) One Headmistress in the West Bengal Educational 
Service (Women's Branch). Post temporary. Men un- 
suitable. Pays— Its. 325—30 -475- 35-1.000 per month. 
Higher initial pay up to Its. 475 may be allowed on the 
basis ot quail lieu* ions and experience 

Qualifications: Essential — (i) A second class Honours 
degree ci a second class Master s dcgico ot an Indian 
University or equivalent foreign degree, (ii) A first class 
degree in Teaching, provided that candidates possessing » 
second class degree in Teaching will he eligible, if they 
possess a Inv4 class Honours or a first class Master’s degree, 
provided hut her that candidates possessing, a second class 
degiee in Teach him may he < onsidered by the Commission 
at it- disci cl ion, it they possess exceptional teaching expe- 
rience, paiucdaity in a icsidential school; (ni) A satisfac- 
tory recoid ol live years' teaching experience in a recog- 
nised institution* (iv) Capacity tor d(‘veloping the 
corporate In c* <>! a school a*nd ot power ot maintaining 
discipline and tamdianly vv it li the latest de\ (dopments in 
Secondai \ Kdmation, (\ ) Gi/od power ot expression in 
Bengali -spoken and written. Desirable - A post-graduate 
degree in Kdmation or evidence ot higher training in 
educational rde <iiistralioii. Age: \ >t more than 15 
yeais on the Hi March 1902, relaxable in tho ease of a 
candidate possessing exceptionally high qualifications and 
for perams holdnig substantive appointment in the Educa- 
tion Depan I nient , West Bengal. 

Closing date— The 31st Maroh 1962. 

(C) Seventeen Assistant Engineers under the Agricul- 
ture and Food Production Department, West Bengal. 

Posts temporan. Pay:— Rs. 325—30 175 35 -1,000 (E.B. 

alter 8th and Kith stages) per mouth. 

Qualifications: Essential —A degree m Civil Engineering, 
Mechanical Engineering or Agricultural Engineering of a* 
recognised University or any other qualification in Civil 
or Mechanical or Agricultural Engineering exempting a 


(d) One Assistant Director of Industries (Statistic 
West Bengal, in the West Bengal General Servioe. ?! 

temporary. Pays — Its. 300 — 30 — 900 (E.B. after 8th and 
10th stages) per month plus house rent allowance w }> er a 
admissible under existing rules. The question ot grantiJ 
higher initial pay may fie considered in exceptional caj 

Qualifications: Essential — (i) A second class Master’s oi 
Honours degree of an Indian University or an equivalent 
degree of a foreign University in Mathematics, Statistics 
Economics ot an allied subject; (ii) A diploma in Statistics 
or practical training in Statistics in case of those who do 
not possess a Master’s degree in Statistics; (iii) Adnnniij. 
trative experience in a Government office or in indus- 
trial or Commercial concern. Desirable — (i) Knowledge oi 
Industrial Quality Control; (ii) Knowledge of maintenance, 
presentation and interpretation of cost data and figures 
Mil) Knowledge of Bengali — spoken and written. Age;J 
Not more tlia-n 30 years on the 1st March 1962, relaxable 
for a specially qualified and experienced candidate. 

Closing date—The 31st March 1962. 

(e) One Leoturer In Mathematics in the West Bengal 
Junior Educational Servioe (Women’s Branch). Post tem- 
porary. Men unsuitable. Pay: — Rs. 275 — 15— 350 _ 2o_ 
650 per nu/nlli plus house rent allowance a* adiinsMide 
under the rules. Higher initial pay up to Rs. 350 may be 
granted in suitable cases. 

Qualifications: Essential — A first class Master’s degree, 
Or, A second class Master’s degree with first class Honours 
in the Bachelor’s degree. Or, A Doctorate degree with a 
(irsl clas- Honours or second class Master's degree. <>( an 
Indian University, in Mathematics; 

Or, 

Equivalent toreign qualifications; 

Or, 

It a candidate has otherwise a good academic rm/nl, 
second class Master’s degree with second class Hoimuf 
in tin' Bachelor's degree in Mathematics pins tne uar 
touching experience m :i recognised College as a wlioh 
time teacher in tin* subject. The period ol teaching e\pt 
lienee may tie relaxed at the discretion of the Co’innnxsHii 

Desirable — Good power of expression in Bengali- spoke 
and written. Age: — Not more than 35 years on 1 lie h 
Mar<4i 1962. relaxable in the case of specially qnalifie 
candidates and lor persons holding substantive npl 11 ”^ 
nient in the Education Department, West Bengal. 

Closing date—The 31st March 1662. 

it) Two Commercial Accountants in the West Bengj 
Subordinate Service, under the Finance (Audit) Depan 
ment, West Bengal. Posts temporary but likely to L' 111,111 
permanent. Pay:— Rs. 300— 30— 900 per month pin ■ I' 0 ’ 1 ’ 
rent allowance as admissible under the existing nilf? 
Uiglier initial pay up to the extent of five advance iti« r ® 
meats is admissible according to qualification a 1 
experience. 

Qualifications:- -Membership of the Institute ot 
ed Accountants in India or equivalent qualifications * ‘ 
may entitle a ca-ndidatc tc/ the Membership ol tfi <l 1 
on application. Age: —Not more than 40 yeni" on llir 
March 1962. 

Closing date—The 26th March 1962. 


TIIE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, ' MARCH p, ivoz 


A A 




II] 




Age Concession 


tnoor eg® limit for th* posts is relaxable by five 
H» e f V Scheduled Castes /Tribes ami up to 15 years for 
persons from Pakistan. 

ndidato who before the loth August 1947, was 
A ( ’ a \ lin prisonod, interned, or externod on account of 
festivities in connection with the country’s struggle 
r Ipuendence, not being convicted ot an o Hence ltuli- 
io r in ‘ J ()r al turpitude, shall lie entitled to a concession in 
r atnm 1 j U pp Gr a ^ ( . limit. The concession granted will 
P'spcct ^ exact period <yf detention, imprisonment, 
k L ^ l } J]eli t or oxtornnient suffered up to a maximum of 

|:r>- 


App‘y, 

miller 


to Secretary with a Treasury Chalan of Rs. 5 
head “XXXVl— Miscellaneous — Receipts of Public 
o 1lder , , Commission, West Bengal 1 or a Crossed Postal 
^ rVlct o l 5 payable to “Secretary, Public Service Com- 
^ lI ? West Bengal’’. Overseas candidates may deposit 
cation toes with the High Commission of India 


il,r Indian Embassy as t lie case ma\ be. 1 
1 prescribed application forms are obtainable 


Particulars 

i pj-f»scnueu ttuwu j.»j. ...r. irom the 

u • ol 1 lie Commission, Anderson House (ground floor), 
iV/rc Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a self- 
-‘^cd envelope- (size 10" x6") with postage stamp of 
t nl’ and the name of the post superscribed on the 


['•■(•lope*" 'Those who intend to take application forms and / 
^'snhnPt the applications personally, should do so between 
!! p ’., in ,uid 3-00 p.Tii . oni full working days and between 
and 12-110 p.m. on Saturdays. 


[dd. 

[u.],-) a. in 


A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service (’ommission, West Bengal. 


iljporc, the 1st March 1902. 


Advertisement No. 12 

Pl’UCA'l IONS are invited lrom amongst the students of 
lie School ot Piinting Technology, Jadavpur, Calcutta, for 

cvniiimcut of seven Apprentices in the West Bengal 

lovernment Press, Alipore, and the Secretary to the Gov- 
rnor's Press, Calcutta. The candidates must apply 
hrough the Principal of the said School and should furnish 
itti their applications certificates of responsibility and 
daracter from him. The number of apprentices for the 
ram lie* of the Presses will he as follows: — 

[ame of the Press and Branch Number of vacancies 

(A) West Bengal Government Press, Alipore: — 

Hand Composing ... 0 

(h) Secretary to the Governor’s Press, Calcutta: — 

Hand Composing ... 1 

7 

f 'unlnl.it cs should state clearly in their applications 
telow item 20 on page 4 of the prescribed form) in which 

Y ' ss they desire, to be trained. If more than one press 
indicated, the order oi preference (subsequent change 
ill not he entertained) should be given. They need not, 
iwevor, submit separate applications or pay separate fees 
r jldhrcnt presses. An apprentice should not be ordi- 
* n *' transferred after appointment from the branch in 
hi'h ho accepts initial appointment to any other branch. 

tyj-Each of the apprentices shall be given an ad-hoe 
‘pend oi Its. 100 per month during the- period of one year 
wiing (ho Presses. 

Qualifications: — (l) Must he a citizen ol India as defined 
art 11 of the Constitution of India. (ii) Must he a 
1( cnt of mid must have successfully completed two years’ 
'i M ' m I he School of Printing Technology, .ladavpur, 

. ' , Age: — Not below 18 years and above 2d years 
lh( ‘ 1st January 1962. 

Tl i 

?it!r J )Pr,0< ^ ,°f apprenticeship training shall be one year, 
i sn?J, Profif'ioney will be awarded to all apprentices 

tel t Cfm, ph?tion of training on the results of ft 

\ at held by a Board of Examiners. Apprenti- 

i ’ 110 timo, shall have a claim as a matter of right 

' a PP°iutmont under Government. An apprentice 


may, if vacancies exist in the Section of the Press in which 
he served the apprenticeship and if he passod the test 
after suceesslul completion of the training, ho absorbed in 
the temporary or permanent establishment of the Press as 
a Distributor in the Hand Composing Section on a scale 
of pay of 11s. 100 — 3 — 136 — 4 — 140 per month. 

If no vacancy exists in the temporary or permanent 
establishment on the termination ot period of apprentice- 
ship, the apprentices will he discharged. In regard to 
apprentices who have satisfactorily completed the full 
course of training but cannot bo ubsorbeu immediately <m 
completion of their training, preference shall bo given to 
them over outside candidates while filling up futuro vacan- 
cies occurring within the next three years. 

Prior to joining, a selected candidate shall he required 
to furnish a security deposit of 11s. 100 in cash to be for- 
feited by Government in the event of his desertion or dis- 
charge before completion of his training in the Press. The 
security deposit shall, however, he refunded on completion 
of training period. 

Age Concession 

The upper age limit is rclaxahle by li\e years tor 
Scheduled Casles/Trihes ami up to Id years for displaced 
persons from Pakistan. 

A candidate who helore the loth August 1947, was 
detained, imprisoned, interned, or externed on account of 
his/her activities in connection with the country’s struggles 
tor independence, not being convicted ot an offence indi- 
cating moral turpitude, shall he entitled to a concession in 
icspcet, oi the upper age limit. The concession granted will 
he equal to the exact period cyf detention, imprisonment, 
intoninmnt or externment suffered up to a maximum of 
four years. 

Apply t» Secretary with a Treasury ('halan of Rs. 6 
under head “XXXVI — Miscellaneous— Receipts of Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal”, or a Crossed Postal 
Order ot Rs. 5 payable to “Secretary, Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal”. Overseas candidates may deposit 
their application fees with flu* High Commission of India 
or the Indian Embassy as the case may be. Particulars 
and prescribed application forms afro obtainable from the 
office ot flic Commission, Anderson House (ground floor), 
Mipi/rc Culrutta-27, personally or on sending a sell- 
addressed envelope (size 10" x6") with postage stamp of 
’.5 nP. and the name of the post superscribed on the 
envelope. Those who intend to take application forms and/ 
or submit the applications personally, should do so between 
10 15 a. m. and 3-00 p.m. cm full working days and between 
10-15 a. m. and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 

Closing date— The 4th April 1982. 

A. C. ROY, Sorrel ary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 
Alipore, the 7th March 1962. 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
IN INSOLVENCY 

Notice of Adjudication Ordor 

No. 3 OF 1962 

Re. Kannvalal Monghraj at present and lately residing at 
27 Marquis Street in tho town of Calcutta, at present 
having no occupation and formerly carrying on business 
under the name and style of Knnayalal Monghraj as 
noth Merchant in Calcutta, Ex parte the debtor. 

Suhodh Kumar Uhaftocharyj a Debtoi’s Advocate. 

ON the Of J i day of February 1962 an order was made by 
tin* High Court, at Calcutta in its Insolvency Jurisdiction 
adjudging i lie ahovennmed as an Insolvent. 

Note — All debts due to the estate should be* paid to me. 
Dated this 2nd day of March 1962. 

M. M. CHAKRA B ARTY, 
Official Assignee of Calcutta, 

6 Council House Street, Calcutta. 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA IN INSOLVENCY 
Notice of Adjudication Order 

No. 5 OF 1962 

Nathaniel William Spenccf at present residing at 
No. 10, Park Lane, police-station Park Street, in the 
town of Calcutta, nnd lately residing at 59 Park 
Mansion, Park Street in Calcutta, aforesaid and work- 
ing for gain as an Kngine Driver under the Eastern 
Railway, Ex parte the debtor. 

Debtor’s Advocate— Sliri (i. N. Nandi, Supreme Court 
Advocate. 

ON the 19th dav of February 1962, an order was made by 
the High Court at Calcutta in its Insolvency Jurisdiction 
adjudging the abovcmamed as an Insolvent. 

Note— All debts duo to the estate should be paid to me. 

Dated this 6 th day oi March 1962. 

M. M. CHAKRA HARTY, 
Official Assignee of Calcutta, 

6 Council House Street, Calcutta. 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
IN INSOLVENCY 


up of the Company. On the 6 th March 1962 the r 
ordered that notice c/f the said application should bp 
to the creditors of the Company as at 15th February 
The hearing of the said application has been fixed { QT $ 
March 1962. Any person desirous of supporting or opnos 
the said application should send to the Company’s \+t 
neys notice of his intention to do so signed by him 'orJT 
Attorney not later than two days before the date 
for the hearing of the said application. Where lie s<Hs? 
oppose the application the grounds of his opposition or 
ropy of his Affidavit must be furnished with such n 0 tj , 1 
A ropy of the Company’s application will be supplied U 
the Company’s Attorneys Messrs. Orr, Dignam & Co u 
any person requiring the same on payment of the p re l 
cribed charges therefor. * 


29 Netaji Subhas Road, 


ORR, DTGNAM A C() 

Attorneys for the Company, 


Calcutta, 7th March 1962. 


(2PM j 


ROAD CESS NOTIFICATION 

THE District Hoard of Murshidabad at its Kpeciul Meetim 
}i(‘ld on the 24th February 1902 resolved, under section 4 ! 
oi the Hen gal Local Kell-Gm eminent Art. to hv\ j 0; , ( 
cess in the district of Murshidabad during the jear \%U h 
at t lie maximum rate of six pies in the rupee on the nnnn., 
value of lands, etc. 


No. 21 OF 1961 

Re.: Hari Sankar Lai 

NOTICE is hereby given that by an Order of Court, dated 
the 28th November 1961, the Order of Adjudication made 
herein on the 8 th August 1961 was annulled. 

6 Council House Street, 

Calcutta, the 5th March 1962. 


M. M. CIIAKRABARTTl , 
Official Assignee of Calcutta. 


S. M. (illOSII MAULIK, Clumnu,, 


Herhamporc, the 21th February 1962 


( 100 « 


NAZLA ROB, LL.H., intends to bo enrolled as ai 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(1W -4 


an 


MADHUKAH DAVE, LL.H., intends to be enrolled n 
Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(170 — 4 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 

Ordinary Original Civil Jurisdiction 

In the matter of the Companies Act 1956 
And 

In the matter of The Kassipur Company Limited 

Company Petition No. 53 of 1962 connected with the 
Company Application No. 19 of 1962 

The Kassipur Company Limited, Petitioner. 

ON the 5th March 1962, a petition was presented to the 
High Court at Calcutta under section 891(2) of the Com- 
panies Act, 1956. for obtaining sanction oi the Court to a 
Scheme of Arrangement whereby the entire undertaking ol 
The Kassipur Company Limited (hereinafter called “the 
Company”) with all its assets, property, rights and powers 
should without lurther a 4 or deed stand transferred to nnd 
he vested in Diamond Products Limited as from the close 
o| business mi the 81st day of March 1962 and Diamond 
Products Limited should allot and issue to the ordinary 
shureholdei* of t h« Company 18.5 ordinary shares of Rs. 5 
each in Diamond Prcwlucts Limited credited as fully paid 
up for each ordinary share of Rs. 100 held by him in tin* 
Cnmpniiv. in the said petition the Company also applied 
for an order under section 891 of the said Act for transtori - 
ing and \ eating without further act and deed the entire 
undertaking of the Company to and in Diamond Products 
Limited with effect from the elose of business on the 81st 
day of March 1962. and tor the dissolution without winding 


SI 111 I ANIL KUMAR DATTA, LL.H., intends to 1 , 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(171—1 


AMIYA KUMAR MUKHERJEE, LL.H., intends to k 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 172-1 


NAM GOPAL CHOWDHURY, LL.H., intends to 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Comt. 


(H 


Ti- 1 


AIUJN MUKHERJEE, LL.B., intends to be enrolled! 
m Advocate «»L the Calcutta High Court. 


|)( Hi GOHINDA HANERJEE. LL.1L, intends to he enroll? 
as. an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court „ ^ 


COLOR NATH DAN, LL.H., intends to be enrolled ^ !l 


Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(19M 


Par t iA J 


115 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 15, 1962 


CHANDRA DAS, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

,n ' (199—4) 


rI V\Y KUMAR BANDYOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends to 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(200 — 4) 


m llAh CHANDRA DAS, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
- advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(201 — 4) 


JM.irsil KAXTI 1)HAR, LL.B., intends to be enrolled m 
nn Advocate ol the Calcutta Higli Court. 

(221—4) 


SUNIL KUMAR BIJADRA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
ns an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

( 222 — 1 ) 


SHREK PH AXINDRA NATH SEN intends to be enrolled 
as au Advocate in the High Court at Calcutta. 

(223 — 4) 


j(\/l AHAMKD A LI, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
\ilvonite of the Calcutta High Court. 

(202—4) 


KAMABATAR AGARWALA, LL.B.. intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(203—4) 


SHHI AREN KUMAR DUTTA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as ail Advocate of the High Court at Calcutta. 

(204—4) 


SHIM 1). X. CHAKLADAR intends to-be enrolled as an 
Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(207—4) 


FORM No. 1 M 

Companies Act, 1956 

MEMBERS 1 VOLUNTARY WINDING-UP 

Notice of appointment of Liquidator pursuant to section 516 

Name of Company: Fairlio Pla*ce Securities Private 
Ltd. 

Nature ol business. Investment Holding Company. 

Address ot Registered Office: 1 Lyons Range, 

Calculi a- 1. 

Name(s) and address(es) (it Liqiudat(yr(s) : Messrs. 
J. S. F. Gibb, A. M. S. Fergie, J. C. Laing, P. 
Niyogi and S. K. (jlangiily, all of the firm of Messrs. 
Lovelock & Lewes, 4 Lyons Range', CaJcutta-1. 

Date of appointment: 1st March 1062. 

By whom appointed. The Company. 

(208-1) 


nWUMKA PRASAD AGARWAL, LL.B,. intends to bo 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(212—4) 


IVlh KUMAR CH01TDHITRY, LL.B., intends to be en- 
as J«ri Advocato of Calcutta High Court. 

(216-4) 


KUMAR SAHA, LL.B., intends to be 
in Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


enrolled as 
(217—4) 


'SI I KUMAR. BANDYOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends 
, Mr(), l'‘d as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(218-4) 


AXfl.\ 

*lkd 


CHAKR-ABARTI, LL.B., intends to ho 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(219 — 4) 


^Vdloo-H? A jL, S : ’ A tendB to bo Gnrolled 

nof,4te of the Calcutta High Court. 

(220—4) 


IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 1956 
AND OF 

FAIRLIE PLACE SECURITIES PRIVATE LTD. (IN 
LIQUIDATION) 

NOTICE is hereby given that at a General Meeting of the 
Members ol the abovenamod Company, held at 2 Fairlio 
Place, Calcutta*, the Registered Office of the Company, cm 
I hursday, the 1st day ol March 1962, the following Special 
Resolutions were passed: — 

(a) “RESOLVED that the Company he wound up 
voluntarily as a Members’ Voluntary Winding-up and 
that Messrs, .John Stewart Fyfo Gibb, Alhwi Mac- 
Gregor Smith Fergie, •lohn Cuthbert Laing, Premanjan 
Nixogi and Su4nl Kumar Ganguli, (’bartered Account- 
ants of l Lyons Range 4 , Calcutta, bo and they are 
hereby appointed tin* Liquidators of t he* Company for 
the purpose of such winding-up with joint and several 
powers and that, they he remunerated at their usual 
scale of charges.” 

(b) “RESOLVED that the Liquidators he and they 
are hereby authorised to exercise all or a*ny of the 
powers given bv clauses (a) to (e) of sub-section (1) 
and clauses u) 1o ( ix ) of sub-sect, ion (2) of soofi</n 4o7 
ol the Companies Act, 1966.” 

(c) “RESOLVED that, on obtaining a good and suffi- 
cient indemnity from the persons to whom tin 4 assets 
are disti dinted Ihe Liquidators he and they are hereby 
authorised to disfrihiite m specie or, kind ammigst (he 
shareholders of the Company or their nominees, tho 
Company's ass<‘fs.” 


Fairlie Place Securities Private Ltd. 
(In Liquidation). 

•T. S. F. GIBB, 

For Self and Co-Liquidators. 

4 Lyons Range. Calcutta. 


6th March 1962. 


(209—1) 


115 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 15, 1962 


[Pari j 


THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF 
CALCUTTA 

Summary of the Minutes of the Proceedings of the 
Commissioners' 1 5th (Special) Meeting, held on the 
6th December 1961 

AT the I'jih (">)»<•< ml) Mod mu;, held on the 6th 
Decornbei 1951 iln* lullovvmg business was transacted: — 

1. The Late Shri R. K. Mitra, I.C.S., ex-Chairman 

T he Commissioners placed on record their bense of deep 
sorrow and irgiot on I ho >iti! imely death of Shri 
II. K. Mitra who had served as Cliaiiman of the 
Commissioners tor the Port o! Calcutta for four 
years retiring m January I960. 

They further decided to send a message of condolence 
to the members ol his bereaved iamily. 

2 . Cutting a new channel over the Balari Bar-Third 
Fivo Year Plan 

The Commissioners sanciioned, sublet to the sanction 
ot Government as a. charge to Capital, an estimate 
oi Its. On lahlis l oi the abo»e work and confirmed 
the plat ement oi all older Jor the work with Messrs. 
N. V. Aiti-vlcidamscbc Ballast Maaischappij. 


The 9th March J962. 


P. C. MUTER, Secretary. 


KANORIA GENERAL DEALER8 PRIVATE LIMITED 

NOTICE 


NOTICE is hereby given that Shri Sunil Ghose <jf tar 
Monoharpukur Road, Cnlcutta-29, is no more in 
employment oi the Company and its associates with eft 
from the 1st of March 1962 and ho has no longer a^ 1 
authority to represent the Company and its associates or V 
deal with any one for them or on their behalf from fi 
said date. 1,18 


Kanoria General Dealers Private hta 
1«‘13 Canning Street, 
Calcutta-1. 

Dated, the 5th March 1962. 


(214-1) 


IN THE MATTER OF MANTRI AND COMPANY LTn 
(IN CREDITORS VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION) 

NOTICE under sections 4f)7, 509 and 550 of Companies Act 
is hereby given that a* General Meeting of the Share-holders 
and a meeting of Ihe Creditors will be held at the Offi,! 
of P. I). Himatsingka and Co., No. 6, Old Post ()$<.« 
Street, Calcutta, on Wednesday, the 18th day of April 1962 
nt 6 p.m. and 4 p.m., respectively, for receiving the report 
and account of the Liquidator in respect of final dissolution 
wid also for the purpose of the disposal of books and mu*** 
of the Company. 

Dated the 5th March 1962. 

RAMESHWAR PRASAD, 

Liquidator. 

( 211 - 1 ) 


(224-1) 


flsW*d No. C207 1 



(Ealrutta 





(ferttr 


jtba 1 ] 


THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 1962 


[ 8 AKA 1884 


PART II — Advertisements, Notices 

Jura regarding sanding Manussripts lor publication of Advertisements, Notices, etc., In the 

"Calcutta Gazette” (Part II). 

. Manuscripts sheuM Se properly edits* and complete In itself. 

> Manuscripts should always ho typewritten ea one side of the paper. The name of signatory should he typewritten 

the signature. 

Manuscripts intended tor advertisement in the next issue of “Calcutta Saacttc” shall he received hy PuhUeatten Sates 
•I New Secretariat Buildings, 1 Hastings Street, Calcutta, up to 3*30 p. m. on Friday and at Head OMee at A li p e r e up to 
n. ea Saturday. 

, All costs shall ho paid In advance and deposited along with the manuscripts. 

. Manuscripts and postal remittances shall hs addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, 80VERNMENT PRINTING (PUBLICATION 
I0H), WEST BENBAL GOVERNMENT PRESS. ALIPORE. 

m press shall net he held responsible ter delay In publication el any aduorthomoat due to the non eeeervauee el the 
etiens detailed above. 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 
Advertisement No. 11 

,|( \TIO\K an* invite cl Ini wmlerment nuied po*ds lion, 
Mitizrns and poisons ol Indian oiuni migrated limn 
mu with intention ol permanent ly settling in Itidni. 
ts m| Nepal, Sikkim or Statu ol Pondii lion \ , ami 

h (Iniiiii ded in VjJou, Daman ami Dm. Age limits 
ible for Government servants except where otherwise 
ied. I ppm* apt* limits reluxnhlc bv o \cais i oi- S< In* 
l Vic** .mil Scheduled Tubes enndidulev. No iela\a- 
')i nt 1 1 « * i s, ham in except ioit.il cin uiiist.iin us. and will 
lx- i claxed beyond ilnu .vea« •». Qualification? 
ible at Commission's discretion in case of candidates 
Vise well qualified. Particular and application lorm- 
mbit • t rout Secretary, l nion Public Sort n t* (amnios 
IVl li<>\ No. 1S(), New Dcll.i. IL*‘piesl I oi loinis 

s l )(, <il\ name ol post and should be accompanied ir 
dh ■t**s*»e »e | mist ain|)cd envelope lot each post at least ,n 

I ‘ ‘ ’ uidieat in«* tliereon mum s ol pn-is lot wlmii 
•m tupnred. ('losing dale lor icreipt ol application 
'"mmu\ ivrcipt oi crossed Indian Postal (Infer loi 

nP ( 1.87 nP tor Scheduled Castes and licdiilt d 
v| d»ili April PM>2 (IWMli April hM»2 toi apph- 
‘diioudi. SupiiMito application with 'cpalulc In 
ln * • .icli (Hist Candidate- abroad m.A apply on 
P a I M * r d l«»rms are not available and deposit let* with 
n< i*:i n Kmbassv. If, ivi|iim*(l candidates in l« ^ I 

II 101 personal interview. 

“If Librarian, Films Divieion, Ministry or 
list n ar ** Broadcasting, post permanent. Pays 
-otK) r >;^0-r,9(J 7 -K. B.- -.lit — kihi — K. JC— .SO— 
r '', Higher initial pin to >pecnl!v ipialified and 

candidate. Agti — 40 years and below. Quail* 
1 essential — (i) Degree ot a recognised University. 


(JD Degree / Diploma in Library Science ol a recognised 
l ill versity / Institution. (it) About five years’ experience 
m a responsible cupuciD in a Library ol standing. 

2 . 8tatistioai Investigator (Typo *B') in tho Army 
Statistical Organisation, Ministry of Defence. Post tern* 
pnr.it ( \ , but likely to (oiitimie. Post reserved for Sche- 
duled Castes /Tribes candidate, it such suitable candidate 
available, otherwise treated as umeserved. Payj *Rs. .{*2/> 

1 ) 17-V K.R.- -20“ oTo. Higher initial pay to specially 

<)U.ililied and experiemed uuididiLe. Age: 40 years and 
below . Qualifications: Essential (it 2nd Class Degree 
(with Mat henmt ics or Statistics or rhvsies u.s a subject ol 
"Muivk oi a iccugiiised ilniveisity. (u) Tlioi ougli know- 
ledge ol t In* operations *>| Mu haiiical I'abiilations | Punched 
C aids t equipment, and experience ol phummg and super- 
'iMiig work on such equipment. 

' One Lecturer in Sugar Engineering in the National 
Sugar institute, Ministry of Food and Agrioulture. Pom 

temporary but ukcl.\ to become permanent . Post reserved 
h»r hediilcd Caster candidate 0 such suitable candidate 

available otherwise- treated as imieseived. Pay: Its. ,in0 

2 ."* oOO — :$0- ~r*H) K. B. - :vi — *oo F. B. :io- s;to :tr» - 

>0. Higher initial pay In qieciallv (|i;alifi«*d ami 
«\ pern neid candidate. Age: :io o*nrs am! below. Quail* 
heat ions: Essential: - (ij Degiec m Mt < haiiM-nl Knguiceiing 
hom lecogirsed Univmsitv oi equivalent. (ii) Suitable 
experience in a huge workshop, preferably ot sugar maim- 
tiieuiriiig machinery or in a large sugar factory or recog- 
nised sugar institute. f 

I. Four Marketing Officers, Directorate of Marketing 
and Inspection, Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Depart- 
ment of Agriculture). Dm* oi the posts peimatient but 
appointment to be made on temporary basis in lien 
vacancy; other three jmsts temporary, hut likely to eon- 
ttime indefinitely. One of the posts reserved for Scheduled 


118 




Castea/ Tribes candidate, if such suitable candidate avail- 
able; otherwise all the four posts treated as unreserved. 
Ply:— Its. .‘150— 25 — 500 — :«>— ^59« U- -K.B. - -.‘10— 81 K). Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidates. 
Aga: — 35 years and below. Qualifications; Essential — 
(i) Degree in Agricultural Science, Commerce or Econo- 
mics of recognised university or equivalent, (ii) About 
two years’ experience of Agricultural Marketing or Agri- 
cultural Extension work including co-operation. 

5. One Dentist foMfeftt* *»n, HWINimoAmI Hospital and 
Nursing Horns, Now !•*!, OlNOtwitpifiiilral of Hsalth 
gorvioes. Post permanent* but appointment will be made 
on fem|M»rary basis in lien vacancy. Ply:— Rs. 300 — 25 — 
50(L— E. B. — 30 — (550 — E. H. — .‘10—800 plus non-practising 
allowance of 25 per cent, ol pay. subject to a minimum of 
Its. 150 pei month. (The ‘•rale ot pay is subject to 
revision in the light of Pay Com mission’s recommendations). 
Private practice of anv kind will not be allowed. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age: 35 years and beiow. Qualifications: Essential- (i) A 
qualification included in the Schedule to the Dentists Act, 
1918. < ii ) About one year’s post-graduate training in a 
recognised Dental institution, (iii) About three years' 
experience it dental work in a Hospital or in private 
practice. 

<>. One Medloai Offiotr, Trieull Hydel Project, Nepal, 
Ministry of HeSlth. Post temporary but likely to con- 
tinue. Pay: — Us. J15B— :150— :180~* 38(>-JlO— 590--E. U.-3U 
— 770 -4(1-850 plus Nopal allowance of Its. .‘150 per month 
{if married), and Its. 200 per month (if single) will be 
admissible. Scale of pay and allowances are subject to 
levision. Private practice of any kind will not be allowed. 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate. Ago:— 35 years and below. Qualification* t 
Essential — (i) A Medical qualification (other than Licen- 
tiate qualification) included in the First or Second Schedule 
or Part il of Third Schedule to the Indian Medical Council 
Act, <1956. (Persons possessing qualifications included in 
Part, II ot Third Schedule should also tultil the conditions 
relating to registration specified in section 111(3) of the 
Act.) (ii) Post-gradual e qualification in Medicine/ 
Surgery, e.g., M.T). or M.R.C.P., M.S., F.R.C.S., 
F.A.C.S. or equivalent, (iii) About five years’ experience 
as Physician or Surgeon in any institution ot repute. 

7. One Reader in Modern History, Indian Aid Mission, 
Nepal (Ministry of External Affairs). Post temporary, and 

the period of appointment will hi* two years in the first 
instance. Pay:— Rs. 590—30 — 830 ~35 900 plus Nepal 
allowance of Rs. 230 per month if married, otherwise 
Rs. 155 per month. Higher initial pay to speeinlly qualified 
and experienced candidate. Agei — Preferably 45 years 
and below, for all including Government servants. Quali- 
fications: Essential — (i) First Class Master's degree in 
Modern History of a recognised University. (ii) About 
five years’ experience of teaching Post-graduate Classes in 
History. 

8. Assistant Dairy Davalopmant Advltar (Dairy Econo- 
mics), Ministry of Food and Agrioulturc (Department of 
Agriculture)* Post temporary, hut likely to continue. Post 
reserved for Scheduled Castes candidate, ii such suitable 
candidate* available, otherwise treated as unresolved. Pay: 
—lls. 700- -40- -1,100—50/2 — 1,250. Higher initial pay to 
specially Qualified and experienced candidate. Age: — 45 
years ami below. Qualifications: Essential— (i) Master’s 
degree m Agricultural Economics/ Economics /Commerce ol 
a recognised university, or equivalent. Or Degree in 
Animal Husbandry /Agriculture with Post-graduate training 
in Dairying. Or Diploma in Dairying with Degree in 
Science preferably with Mathematics, Physics or Chemis- 
try or Degree in Dairying, with about two years’ experience 
in a Dairying Plant, (ii) About file years' experience in 
conducting surveys in production, marketing and prices of 
commodities preferably farm nr dairy products. 

9. One Leoturer In Ear, Note and Throat, Medical 
College, Pondicherry, -Post temporary but likely to be 
retained on jierimment bssis. Pay:- Rs. 530- -30- (550 
plus non-practising allowance o) 25 per cent, of pay subject 
to a minimum ut Rs, 150 per month. Private practice ol 
any kind will not lie allowed. Higher initial pay to 
specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age: — 45 
years and below. Qualification*! ElBOntlal— (i) A Medieal 
qualification (other than Licentiate qualifications) included 


in the First or Second Schedule or Part II of Tl a 
dule to the Indian Medical Council Act, 19r>o T?, ^ 
possessing qualifications included in Part 11 { >t ; j‘j , , r< 
dule should also fulfil the conditions relating l** 1 ^ 
t rat ion specified section 13(3) ot the AotJ (° ,v 
graduate qualification in the diseases ot the E \ t ^ 
D.L.O. or equivalent qualification, (iii) About ' 
years' exjwrience in teaching institution as » , 
Tutor. Demonstrator, or in an equivalent post m 


vne mm vonwrvacion uvneer Itngineenn&i u 
Soil Conservgtlen Reaearoh, Dafnonitrotlon and t, * 
Oontro, Control Soli Conservation Board, Ministry T? S 
and Agriculture. Post temporary hut likely 1 * 
indefinitely. Other things being equal Schedule r Ul 
Tribes candidate preferred. Pay:-U«. GUO -40 ,TJ 
1.000 — 1 ,1)5(4-- 1 ,050 — j ,100— -1 , 1(H) — 1 ,150 ( M ,bj w .j ~ 1,11,1 
sion m the light ol Pay Commission’* recomiiKMidl/ 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and i.v,,. , 
candidate. Age:— 40 years and below. OuaifficJ*? 
Eieential— (i) Degree in Civil or Agricultural 
of recognised University or equivalent, (ii) t \| " m 
years’ practical experience in Civil/Agrieulluul ?' 
nee ring of width live years should be in soil const.] v . ^ 


1J. Farm Superintendent, Indian Council of to, 
turai Research, Ministry of Food and Agriculture! 

temporary, but likely to become permanent. Pavi _i> 

- 100 — 450- - E B .— GlX) — .15—070— E . B.-445-.-n* ) [’’;] 

initial pay to specially qualified and experienced i/S 
Age:- 45 years and below. Qualifications: Essentia 
(D A degree or diploma in Veterinary Science/ 1),,^,, ' 
a degree m Agriciiltuie of recognised university /‘in u 
tion. (ii) Post -graduate training in Animal lliishaD 
(in) About fix o > oars’ experience in managing piv|,|rl 


Corrigendum 

Twelve Aaeletant Inspectors of Mines in the ofh« 
Chief Inepeotor of Mines, Ministry of Labour and Em 
ment* In partial modification ol Commission'*-: adver 
!'"•!" N<»; H, itcii No. M, published on 21 ih Keliruarv 1 
it is notified for genera! information that I’mbatim 
Assistant Inspectors on joining service won id Inn 
execute a bond to the effort that they would soi 
office of Chief Inspector of Mim s lor' at least , 
either in grade ot Assistant Inspector or in am hi' 
grade in the office lo winch they may lx impum 
Further, ol tlu* posts advertised only two pmiianciu » 
are icsoncd tor Scheduhd Castes and not imdit Oi 
conditions i email: unchanged. Closing date vWvih'h 
2nd April 19(52. 


INDIAN ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE, ETC., 
EXAMINATION, 1962 

THE UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION wall h 
at Ahmedahad, Allahabad, Bangalore, Bhop.d l!o:Ji 
Calcutta, Cuttack, Delhi. Hyderabad, Jaipur, Mudi 
Nagpur, Patiala, Patna, Shillong, Trivandrum :md Lon 
a competitive examination commencing on tlu ij 
October 1962, for recruit ment to three categoric,'- oi vui 
as follows:- ^ 1 

Category l 

Indian Administrative Set vice, and 
Indian Foreign Service; 

Category || 

Indian Police Sen ice. and 

Delhi and Himachal Pradesh Police Service. \ urn 

Category ill 

Indian Audit ami Accounts Service, 

Indian Customs and Cent ml Excise Sen ice 
Indian Delence Accounts Service, 

Indian Income-tax Service (Class I), 

Military Lands and Cantonment Service, Class 1 

Indian Ordnance Factories Service. Class I 
Managers - Xon-Technical ) , 

Indian Postal Service, (’lass l. 

Indian Railway Accounts Sendee, 


j\OlT tl] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 22, 1962 


11* 


Transportation (Traffic) and Commercial Departments 
* ol the Superior Revenue Establishment of Indian 
Railways, 

Ontrul Secretanat Service, Section Officers’ Giade, 
Class II, 

Custom* Appraisers’ Service, Class IT, 

Drlhi and Himachal Pradesh Civil Service, Class II; 
and 

Railway Board Secretariat Seivice, Class IT. 

ACS limit# on 1st August 1082* Indian Police Service 20-24 
“ r ^. other Services 21-24 years, candidates, other than 
'^Milled Castes or Scheduled Tribes or residents ol 
. mid French settlements or of Andaman and Nicobar 
uhnds, not eligible to compete more than two times lor 
J } tl V the thiee categories of Services, this restriction 
* effective from the examination held hi 19(51 onwards, 
i npcr age-limit reluxable in iavoui of Scheduled Caste*, 
^•hc diiled Tribes, residents of the former French sottle- 
' ts u hich have now become part of India, candidates 
i' in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, repatriates from 
r ..ion u ho are Indian citizens and certain categories of 
(Jovernmont Servants. QtllllflcltlOrtSi — I.A.K. and J.F.S.-— 
V (h giee in Arts, Science (but not a science degree in 

hnologv or Chemical Engineering) , Commerce, Agrieul- 
lul(1 or in Civil, Mechanical or Electrical (including Tele- 
communication) Engineering or its equivalent; Law Degree 
l’ooim, (iujerat and Karnatak Universities (Revised 
( Oui'M* 1 acceptable. Law Degree Bombay University 
(Reused Course) with certain reservations and B.L. Degree 
oi \ ml lira University also acceptable. Other Service# — A 
, j 0 or its equivalent. Full particulars and application 
foRns obtainable from the Secretary, Union Public Service 
Commission, Dholpur House, D.H.Q. P.O.. New Delhi-11, 
h\ remitting Re. 1.00 by money order or cm cash payment 
at the counter. Candidates must oleariy state on money 
order coupons “INDIAN ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE, 
( m., F.X AMI NATION, 19(52“ and also give their names and 
full postal address In block letters. Postal orders or 
cheques or cuireney notes will not he accepted in lieu ol 
money orders. Completed applications must reach the 
l nmn Public Kemeo Commission bv 14th May 19(52 (28th 
M.i\ I ! H )2 in case ol candidates residing abroad). 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


General instructions to oandldatas applying In responsa to 
advertisements issued by the Commission for roorult- 
ment to posts of “Mtetlofi”. 

(\) instructions regarding submission of application. - 

Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will he a*. nilnhlo from the office of the Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor), 
Alipore, Culeiitta-27, personally or on Bending a large self- 
a<li|ie.sH*d envelope with stamps sufficient to cover the 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 
topics (»i tin* prescribed form may apply on any similar 
typed (not handwritten) form showing exactly the word- 
mu and spacing ot the sample form published in the 
“Calcutta Gazette” of the 1st September 1966, provided 
the blanks are filled ui> in the candidates’ own handwriting. 

(ii) Particulars and cartlftoatas required.— Candidates 

should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
tmrp than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
,r °m responsible persons, testifying to their private 
diaraeinr. 

T ho Commission accept# only the age of a candidate as 
•worded in the Matriculation or the Secondary School 
Final / 1 .caving Certificate. In the case of a female candi- 
(lau ‘ w nose age is not recorded in the Matriculation or 
^houl Kinal Certificate, any of the following evidence of 
*8° is accepted by the Commission: — 

1 A certificate from the Headmistress of the school, 
which she last attended, showing her exact age as 
recorded in the school register. 


2. An affidavit regarding her age sworn by her fathef 
or mother or aome other person in a position U» 
know by having been present or heard of her birth 
at the time of occurrence. 

R. A certificate regarding her age, from a Member at 
the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who must 
have known the candidate and her family, indicat- 
ing clearly the evidence on the basis of which he/ 
she satisfied himself/ herself on the point. 

(.1) Feo.- Candidates must enclose with their spolia- 
tions a fee of Its. 6 in the form of a receipted clialan 
from » Government 'I reason or the Reserve Batik of India 
under the head “XXXV 1— Miscellaneous— Receipts of the 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal”. Money order*, 
cheques, etc., m lieu of treasury challans are not accepted. 
Postal order, however, may be accepted from candidates. 
They should he crossed and made |>ayahle to “The Boers- 
tan. Public Service Commission, Wost Bengal”. No appli- 
cation will lie considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application fee. 

Candidates abroad may deposit their application fees 
with the High Commissioner ol India or the Embassy, as 
the case may he, and obtain receipts tor the same, which 
will have to he attached to their applications to be sub- 
mitted to the Commission. 

Candidates in Government, service should make ®ure 
before depositing too that their applications will he forward- 
ed by their superior officers. In no case will the foe paid 
with the application be refunded. 

The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced person from Pakistan. 

Aii indigent displaced person shall, in the first instance, 
pay the application tec prescribed for a gazetted post 
advertised by the Commission but if he/ she is selected for 
and appears at the interview, the fee paid by him/her will 
he refunded atterwards 


Note, “(i) A uisplacod person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is bona lido displaced person from Pakistan, e.g 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original. 


(li) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming ago concession must furnish with his appli- 
cation a certificate m original irom a gazetted officer or a 
Mem her ol Parliament or State Legislature belonging to 
the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(m) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion lee must furnish besides the evidence required under 
Noto (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.” 

(4) Address. — Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address 


(6) Canvassing. — Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
lor appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
liersons interested m the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will be disregarded. 

(6) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under atiy Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Volley Corporation), in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


'120 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 22 , 1 962 


[Part 


Candidates serving tinder Government or a local or 
Statutory Body should submit an advance copy in the pros- 
cribed form. The application fee should in such cases be 
attached to the advance copy and not to the original. The 
candidature of such applicants may not however be con- 
sidered ii the original applications do not reach the Com- 
mission's office within a fortnight from the closing date. 
Unless applications in original or advance copies with 
application Ices are received within the closing date, late 
applications may he rejected. 

A. C. ROY. Secretory, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Aliporc the 27 t.h .lanuary 196i. 


Advertisement No. 6 

WEST BENGAL SECRETARIAT CLERKSHIP 
EXAMINATION, JUNK, 1%2 


Advertisement No. 13 


APPLICATIONS arc invited from Indian citizens fnr 
following posts:— 10r th * 


(a) One Commercial Accounts Offioer in the West 

•al Service, under the Flnanoe HampImi*.* .™l 


General Sarvioa, under the Flnanoe Department, ' yu Bt( 
Bengal. l’o*t temporary but likely to be made Dorni im!. 
Fay: — Rs. 7()0 — 5() — 750 — GO — 1,360 per month plus | l(l , ' 
rnii. allouaniv as admissible under the rules. 


KlU.,0 


Qualifications;— (l) Membership of the institute , i 
Chartered Accountants in India or equivalent qualified’ 
which may entitle a candidate to the Membership ot th 
Institute on application; (ii) At least 10 years’ oxperieni* 
in Government Departments and/or big cominerciul r 0 'u 
reins. The period ol experience may he relaxed at th . 
discretion of the Commission for candidates otherwi l 
considered exceptionally suitable. Age*— - Not more iL.'/ 
45 years on the 1st April 19(52. * u 


A COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION will be held 
simultaneously in Calcutta, jalpalguri and Asansoi in 
June, 1962 for recruitment to the Lower Division Clerical 
Service in the West Bengal Secretariat, Directorates and 
certain other Offices. Scales of pay* (i) Secretariat — 
Rs. 100 — 5 — 250 plus house rent allowance if admissible, 
(ii) Directorates— Rs. 125 — 15—110 — 4-* 200 with higher 
initial start at the 4th stage ol the time-scale, i.e., Rs. 134 
plus house rent allowance if admissible*; (iii) other 
Offices IL 125—3 — 110—4 — 200 plus hou^e rent allowance 
it admissible; and (iv) Sub-Jailor — Rs. 150- *5 — 250 plus 
house lent, allowance if admissible. 

All candidates who qualified at the last reciuitment 
examination held in 1901 aie being allotted lor 
appointments. 

Prospect of Promotion: 50 per cent, vacancies in the 
upper division of the Secietariat (scale Rs. 225—10- 325— 
15 — 175) .ire filled by promotion I rom lower division. All 
upper division vacancies in the Dina torn tes and other 
Offices are ordinarily tilled by promotion Irom the lower 
division. 

Qualifications: Candidates must have passed the School 
Final (oi equivalent) examination and must be not less 
than 18 and not more than 23 years of age on 1st June 
1902. The upper age limit is relaxablo for candidates 
belonging to Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, bona 
tide displaced persons from Pakistan and for certain othei 
categories ol candidates. 

Subjects and Papers: The examination will consist of 
tour papers ot 1U0 marks each — (l) English, (ii) Bengali 
(Hindi, Urdu oi Nepali in case oi those whose mother- 
tongue is not Bengali), (iii) General knowledge and 
Current Allans, (iv) Elementary Mathematics. 

Detailed particulars and application iorm obtainable 
(free ot cost ) irom the office ot the Public Service Commis- 
sion, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor), 
Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a self- 
addressed largo envelope* (size 10" x 5") with postage 
stamps worth 25 naye paise affixed thereon. Those who 
intend to take application form, etc., and/or submit the 
applications personally, should do so between 10-15 a.m. 
and 3-00 p.m. on full working days and between 10-15 a.m. 
and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. Applications (with two 
copies oi passport size photographs) to he submitted in 
the preset ihed form w T itb a Crossed Postal Order of 
Rs. lO.(K) payable to “The Secretary, Public. Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal”, or a Treasury Chalan lor Rs. 10. 00 
under head “XXX VI— Miscellaneous — Receipts of Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal”. The Commission may 
remit fees of genuinely indigent and bona tide displaced 
persons. A candidate seeking remission of fees will, how- 
ever, be lcqiuml to pay the prescribed fee along with the 
application. It he appears at the examination and satisfies 
the Commission that he is a bona fide displaced person in 
indigent ciicumstances who can ill afford to pay the fee, 
the amount paid shall he rclunded to him. 

Closing date— 30th March 1962. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary. 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Alipore, the 15th February 1962. 


Closing date— The 17th April 1982. 

(b) Two Assistant Directors of Industries (Vocational 
Training), under the Commeroe and Industries Denari' 
ment, West Bengal. Posts temporary. Pay: — p 8 TV* 
30 — 17.5 — 35 1,000 (E.B. after 8th and Kith stages) Mi- 
llionth plus other allowances as admissible under tl« 
rules. 

Qualifications * — (i) A degree in Mechanical or Electrical 
Engineering or in Technology or any other qualification ln 
Mechanical or Electrical Engineering or m Technology 
exempting a candidate Irom appearing in Sections A mid jj 
ol the Associate Membership Examination ot the Insti- 
tution or Engineers (India) ; (ii) Organising capacity and 
administrathc ability; (iii) Three years’ experience sub- 
sequent to graduation ir» a supervisory capacity in wink- 
shops engaged in production, or three gears’ teaching 
experience; (iv) Working knowledge of * u number o( 
Engineering and Building trades oi of Cottapi and Saudi 
Scale Industries. Ages — Between 30 and 45 >eais on the 
1st April 1902, relaxahle in case oi a candiduU i.iherwu* 
well qualified 

Closing date The 11th April 1962. 

(t) One Geologist under the Directorate of Mines and 
Minerals, West Bengal. Post temporary. Women unsmt 
able. Pay:— Ks. 300— 30-4)00 (E.B. at 8th and Kith 

stages) per month plus other allowances as admissible 
under the rules. Higher initial pay up to Rs. 450 may he 
allowed on account of academic attainments or technical 
or research experience oi on age basis up to 35 years 

Qualifications* Essential— (j) a second class M St 
degree in Geology Irom a recognised University or Diplmiu 
in Applied Geology from the Indian School o) Mines, 
(ii) Three years’ experience in prospecting and/or mining 
Desirable — Experience in mining and drilling Age: - 
Between 25 and 40 year*; on the 1st April 1902 

Closing date— The 6th April 1962. 

Ml One Lecturer in Commercial Mathematics in the 
West Bengal Junior Educational Bervioo (Men’s Branch). 

Post, temporary. Women unsuitable. Pay: Ks. 27.i 15 

350 20 — 050 per month plus house rent allowance ie 
admissible under the rules. Highei initial pa\ un i" 
R.v 350 may he granted in suitable eases. 

Qualifications: Essential -A first (lass MasteiV degree 
Or, \ second class Master’s degree with first el tss Honour 
in the Bachelor’s degree, Or, A Doctorate degree with m sl 
class Honours or second class Master s degree of an Indian 
Uimeisitv, in Mathematics. 

Or, 

Equivalent loreign qualifications; 

Or, 

11 a candidate lias itherwise a good academic icrord 1 
second class Master’s degree with second das*' Ibmemj 
decree plus five years’ teaching experience in a recogne-w 
College as a whole-time teacher in Mathematics. 
period ot teaching experience may be relaxed at 
discretion of the Commission. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 22, 1962 


121 




II] 


Knowledge of Statistics; (ii) Good power 
in Bengali— spoken and written. 

Sot more than do years oil the 1st April 1W.J, 
A8*‘, r a specially qualified candidate and for persons 
IjssW’ . t ntive appointment in the Education Depart- 
Bengal. 

Closing date — Thf 6th April 1062. 

nne Lecturer, David Hare Training College, m the 
»■* p ene ai junior Educational Service. Post temporary, 
dt ® ^27.V -15 — 350 — ‘JO — <>50 per month plus house 
P " llowancc as admissible umler the rules. The 
f in ot granting higher initial pay may he considered 
Optional cases. 

qualifications: — (i) A first class Master’s degree ot an 
i Ini versify in a subject other than Education with 
''oml class B.T. degree or a diploma in Teaching of a 
vign I ni' ersity ; 

second class Master’s degree ot all Indian University 
* ^uhjtM t other than Kducation with a first class B.T. 
;J ei . or a diploma in Teaching of n toreign University ; 

stroiwl class Master’s degree in Kducation of an 
„ |’ui\ersity or a Master’s degree in Education of a 
| lf|l Pnhersity with second class U aster’s degree and/ 
luncnrs degree in a subject other than Education of ati 
an V Diversity ; 

,1 Teaching experience in a Training (College or 

rt „ls,n School; (iii) Capacity to lecture through the 
„t Bengali. Age:- -Not more than 35 years on 
l^t April 1962. lelaxahle in the cast of specially 
tn.-d candidate's and for persons holding substantive 
nntmoiit in the Education Depart incut. West Bengal. 

using date— The 5th April 1062. 

, Forty-Three temporary posts in the Subordinate 
Icultural Service, Class 1 (Exooutlve) under the Direc- 
ts or Agrtottlturte, West Bengal. Pays -Rs. 250 — 15-- 
iK Ii ,i ! t e: !0th stage) per month, dearness allowance 
% merged with pav. 

ualifications: Essential A degiee in Agriculture, 
table Knowledge of Bengali— spoken and written. 

; — \ol. more than 25 years on the 1st April 1902, 
uhle lor candidates specially well qualified and 
iietimk 

osing date— The 7th April 1062. 


i One Supervisor (Livestock Management) for Cattle 
Ion, under the Directorate of Dairy Development and 
Ml Husbandry, West Bengal. Post tempoiarv. Pay: 
ziHi- 10—400 (E.B. after 10th ,-tago per month. dea» 
dlm\.oicc being merged with pay. 

jalifications : Essential — (;i A dogie** m diploma in 
\mg or Veterinary Science, or a degree in Agri- 
lro * Oil Practical experience ut a well-run farm in 
in .‘inurement ot cattle Desirable Tt uining in a 
" m y ,f l Animal Husbamlry course'. Age: Not more 
oars on the 1st April 1902. lelaxable tor eandi- 
s Mwrially well qualified and experienced. 

*** date- the 7th April 1082. 


Age concession 

^ 'I'pcr jgc limit for all the* posts is lelaxable by five 
^ l() j Si-lied uled Castes /Tribes and up to 15 years lor 
ft,< ) pn sons I rom Pakistan, 

"ho before tin 15th August 1947. was 

l 1 " '"mrisoned, interned, ui ixterned on aeeount of 
' 1,h Duties in conneetiuii with the country s struggle 
|( 'pendence, not being convicted oi an offence 

^‘ n K moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a eon- 
Pi] n r5J s l H ‘ (, f of the upper age limit. Tin concession 

ly he equal to the exact period of detention, 

' ll ' n V internment or e^ternmept suffered up to a 
P um °i four years. 


Apply to Secretary With 4 TreMftry Chalan of Rr. 5 
under head “XXXVI— MiSeellftrieous — Receipts of Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal”, or a Crossed Postal 
Order ot R«. 5 prtyabfe to “SctTtstafry, ISlblie Service (Com- 
mission, West Bengal ’. Overseas caudklates may deposit 
their application h*es with the High Commission of India 
or the Indian Embassy, as the ease may be. Particulars 
and prescribed application forma are obtainable from the 
office of the Commission, Anderson House (ground floor), 
Aliporo, Calcutta-27, |>eraonally or on sending a sell- 
addressed envelnjw <si*e 10* x6") With postage stamp ol 
35 nl\ and the name ot the post sti|K»rscribed on the 
envelope. Those who intend to take application forms 
and/or submit the application* personally, should do so 
between 10-15 a. in. and 3-00 p.m. on full working days and 
between 10-15 u.m. and 12-30 p.in. on Saturdays. 

A. (I. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 
Alipore, the 7th March, 1902. 


IN THE 4TH COffWT OP tW* 8UB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANA8 

Insolvency Case No. 44 of 1001 

Sailendru Naraiti Sinhn alias H. N. Sinha of P40/B /Block C, 
New r Alipore, TVS. Alipore, Petitioner-Creditor 

versus 

To Apt Chandra Sen Gupta, at present residing at 37 
Dr. Rajendru Road, Culo.Utta-20, Debtor. 

ON tin 1 2nd day of March UK>2 it Was ordered that the 
matter ot the petition of the applicant be heard on the 
Oth day of April 1962 and that the said applicant to attend 
to he examined by this Court on that date. 

N. G. CHAUDHimi, Sub-Judge. 
Alipore, 1 he (>th March 19(52. 

(22(i- -1 ) 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PAftQANAB 

insolvency Cm No. to of 1002 

Sk lainool Mia ol lla/iiiiagar. P.S. N.iihati district 
21-Parganas, Debtor-Petitioner 

To Phnndrumii Singh of Halisahar Kona, P.S. Bizpore, 
district 24-Purganns and 4 others. Creditma. 

ON the 2nd day ol March 1962 it wii> ordered that the 
matter of the petition ot the applicant lie heard on the 
Oth da\ nl April 1962 and that the said applicant to attend 
to be eufinined by this Court on That date. 

X. G. CNAUDHf HI. Sub- Judge. 
Alipore the 7th March 1962. 

<227 -1) 


IN TNE 4TH COUNT 0T THE SUB-JUDGE OF 

2*+’AW«fttr*S 

Irvtoivonoy cm Hi. if 0t UNtt 

A. I. IVtai ot 19B Sambhudas Lane, P.S. ttowbax.ir, 
Calmt la-12, Creditor-Petitioner. 

To- W. Kemandez, lesiding at 5 /IB Momirtpore Hoad. 
IVS. Ekhalporc, Khidderporo, district 24-Pargamis, 
Debtor. 

ON the 2nd day ot March P.N52 it Was ordered that the 
matter of the petition of the applicant Ik* heard on the 
6th day ot April 1962 and that the Haiti applicant do attend 
to he examined by this Court on that date. 

N. G. CHAUDHURI. Sub-Judge. 

Alipore, the 7tli March 1902, 


(228—1) 


122 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 22, 1962 




IN THE 4TH COUNT OF THE SUR'JUOQE OF 
M'PARQANAS 


IN THE «TH COURT OF THE SUR*JUDQE n e 
24-PAROANAS of 


Insotvanoy Cast Ho. 12 of IMS 

Megbraj Bubna of 20 '1, Grey Street. Oulcutta-5, Creditor- 
Applicant. 

To — Nubodh Kuril ar Kar of No. 66, Kalinath Munshi Lam*, 
P S. Baranagorc. Calcutta-36, Debtor. 

ON the 2nd day ot March 1VG2 it was ordered that the 
, natter t»l’ the petition of the applicant be heard on the 
6th dav ot April 1962 and that the said applicant to attend 
to be examined by thin Court on that date. 

N. G. CHAUDHUR1, Sub- Judge. 

Alipore. the 7th March 1902. 


Insolvency Cast No. IS of isos 

Messrs. Snrajnittl Kheo Sankarlal of 95 Lower 

Hoad, Calcutta-7, Creditor-Applicant. 1 

To— Niiteu Banorjee. carrying on business under th» i, 
and stylo of Krishna Oil Mill at 62 Chetla Hoad, 
Alipore. Calcutta-27, Debtor. 

ON the 12th day of March 1962 it wan ordeied that 
matter of the petition of the applicant be heuid o„ 
13th day of April 1962 and that the said n l>]>lira m 
attend to be examined by this Court on that date. 

N. G. CHAUDHUIU, SuMml ft 
Alipore, the 14th March 1962. 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARQANA8 

Insolvency Case No. 13 of 1002 

Mrs. I«\ Moore at present residing at 45/6 Braunfeld 
How, P.O, Alipore, Petitioner-Debtor. 

To- — Chandra Nath Sukla ol \ Graut Street, Calcutta- 1 3 
and six others. Creditors. 

ON the 2nd day ot March 1962 *t was ordered that the 
matter of the petition of the applicant be heard on the 
6th day of April 1962 and that the said applicant to attend 
to be examined by this Court on that date. 

N. G. CHAUDHITRI, Sub-Judge. 

Alipore. the 6th March 1962. 

(230-1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DI8TRICT JUDGE OF 
HOOGHLY 

Insolvency Cass No. 1 of 1981 

NOTH K is herebv given that Shri Kartick Hu,,, 
Moira, son ol Purna Chandra Moira, of ISfuiay anpj 
|\S. Polha, district Hooghly, was adjudged insolvent 
;ird Februarv 1002 and that he has been directed to a|, 
lor hnal discharge on the expiry ot a period ol mu a 
Ihiiii the date of adjudication. 

A. SYAM, District Judge 
CJ44 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDQE OF 
24-PARGANAS 

Insolvency Cass No. S of 1BS2 

Sudlnr Chandra Porel of Ohundanpuktir, Ghoshpara Road. 
P.S. Titagarh, district 24-Parganas, Debtor-Applicant. 

'|*o — Hamdas Singh. Ovcnpura. police-station Titagarh, and 
lour others, Ci editors. 

ON the 9th day ol March 1962 it was ordered that the 
matter ol the petition of I he applicant he heard on the 
I3tli dav ot April 1962 and that the said applicant to 
attend to he examined hy this Court on that, date. 

N. G. CHAPDll DR], Sub-Judge. 

Alipore. the ldth March 1962. 

(233- i) 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 

insolvency Cass No. 14 of 1SS2 

Kashi Prosad Agarwalla of No. 9 .Tagtnohati Midlick Lane, 
( a lent ta , Cred it -or- A pplicant . 

To— .1. A. Hotel ho Mias John Alexander Botelho of 5 /IB 
Mominpore Road, Calcutta-23, Debtor. 

ON the 9th day of March 1962 it was ordered ihal the 
mattei ol the petition of the applicant be heard on the 
13th dav of April 1962 and that the «aid applicant do 
attend to he examined hy this Court on that date. 

N. G. OHOWDHURI, Sub-Judge. 
Alipore, the 13th March 1962. 


IN THE COURT OF THE MUN8IF, 2ND COURT, 
ARRAH. 


Mortgage No. 8 of 1981 

Abdul Mai Khan, Plaintitf. 
versus 

G Haifa r Hussain Khan and others, Dclend.uit*. 

Notice- (I I GluiH.ir Hussain Khan alias G haloor Kill 
Knginc Driver, ICast ern Railway, quarlcis N<> l| 
Hoorn No. D. P.O. Handel Junction (Hooglilvi 

(2) A/, liar Hussain, s/o. Ala Hussain, e/o Glialfar Hu^sl 
alias Ghafoor Khan, Kngine Driver. Hast era Itaiw 
qua tiers No Hi2. Hoorn No. I), Bandel Jun<t! 
(Hoogldv). 

(3» Abdul Hassan. s/o. Meluh Hassan, deccnM’d, r >> M 
Hussain alias Ghaloor Khan, Kngine Driver M 
H .61 wav . (planer No. 102, Room No. M 
Junction fHooghlv). 

WHKHKAS the abov(*named plaintiff has brought tii<M 
suit for the realisation ot the mortgage money on the >1 
of the mortgage deed, dated 11th August 1951, « ,xtM ™ 
by Wall Hussain Khan, deceased, in his favour. 

The hearing of the above case has been fixed on ^ 
March 1962 at 10-30 a.m. Hence you are reqn'r^i 
appear m person or through the pleader with a 
documents in which you rely on the above duo* ’ 
(oiirt. otherwise the case will be decreed as ex l' lir ( ■ 

Given with seal ol this court and iny signature. 

AMAR NATH SINGH 
Munsif, 2nd Court, Arrnli 

Dated the 5th /12th March 1962. 


(234—1) 


P*ht II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 22, 1962 


123 


THE court of the subordinate judge at 

iN A8ANSOL 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
IN INSOLVENCY 


Insolvency Case No. 8 of 1962 


p.titiont-rs: Gour Hari Bouri alias Maji, son of Khoka 
n JJouri alias Maji, by caste Hindu, by occupation 
<.ervice, residing at Upper Kulti (Kulti village) , Kulti, 
1>.S. Kulti, Chowki and Sub-Registry Asunsol, district 
Hurd wan. 


rr i* hereby noticed that the abovenamed petitioner has 
nnlied to be adjudged an insolvent. The court has regis- 
t,<rnl that application fixing 13th April 1902 tor hearing 


thereof . 


N. C. DUTTA. 

Subordinate Judge, Insolvency Juiisdiction. 


(225 — 1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE, RANCHI 

Mortgage Suit No. 75 of i960 

Lilc Insurance Corporation of India, Plaintiff 
versus 

Itbadaui Brothers Ltd., having registered office at the 
premises No. 15. Netaji Subhash Chandra Road, 
('aim It a and others. Defendants. 

Nntne to- 
ll) Blue lam Brothers Ltd., a Oompunx. having its 
registered office at 135 Canning Street, Calcutta. 

CM Si eeinati Pankraj Dehi alias Sroeniati Pankajini 
Debi. widow ol late Gurusaran Lai. 

CM Mural) Alanohar Prasad, son of late Gurusaran Lai, 
both residing at Krishna Villa Extent ion, Gaya. 

(h Krishna Prasad, sem of late Gurusaran Lai, residing 
at Blmrkunda*. P.S. Ramgarh, district Hazaribagh. 

(5) Sivcmnti Madliurhhasini Debi, widow ol late Arjun 
Pi nsad. 

Hi) Siiram. 

(7) Gourisiiafikar, 

(K) Knmal, 

minor sons of late Arjun Prasad. 

PM Men a minor daughter ol late Arjun Prasad, 

Defendant Nos. 5 to 1) residing at premises 
No 1/2, 1 1 indust loin Road. Calcutta, in flic State 
ol West Bengal. 

IAKK not let* that the above -unt lor realization ol 
lb M5 0.31M nP lias been filed against y mi which is lixtd 
,(| i iliopo^al on 3lltli Vfareb 1902 

Lm am directed to appeal on tin* said dale ai IB-30 a. in. 
take necessary steps. In ease you tail to do so. the 
will hr heard ex parte. 

•I. P. SINGH Sub-Judge. ILinehi. 

(252 -1 ) 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
IN INSOLVENCY 

No. 3 Of 1957 

R&: Laolimaiidas Bazaz also known as La< hmundas. 

^d|J( K is hereby given that an Order of Court, was made 
Pith July BH)l suspending the discharge of the 
^"v cnanied Insolvent uutil a dividend of not less tlian 
'Uinas in the i upee has been paid to the creditors. 

* *" ‘ sj,, d Order was completed on the 1th January 1902. 

^ bnuiicii House Street, Calcutta, 

1; >th March 1962. 


M. M. CHAKRA BARTY, 
Official Assignee of Calcutta. 


NO. 3 OF 1939 

Ret jogendra Nath Barua 

NOTICE is heicby given that an Order ol Court was made 
on the 2nd January 1962 directing that the abovenamed 
Insolvent be discharged subject to his consenting to a 
decree being passed against him in favour of the Official 
Assignee tor the sum ot Rs. 400 only to be paid by monthly 
instalment of Rs. 20 each commencing from the month of 
January 1902. 

The said Order was completed on the loth February 
1902. 

0 Council House Street, Calcutta, 
the 10th March 1902. 

M. M. CH AKR ABARTTY, 
Official Assignee ot Calcutta. 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
IN INSOLVENCY 

Notloe of Adjudication Order 

NO. 0 OF 1902 

Ra. Kenneth Kdwin Pearson, residing at No. 115, Dhur- 
niofolla Street in the tmvn ot Calcutta, and laiclv 
working tor gain as ail Assistant Sh'p Repair Manager 
under Messrs. Hoogblv Docking and Fngmeering Com- 
pilin' of No. 0. Howrah Hoad, Salkea, Howrah, and at 
present iiik mployed — Fa ])arte the debtor. In person. 

ON the 28+h day ot February 1962, an order was made 
by the High Court at Calcutta in its Insolvency Jurisdic- 
tion adjudging the abovenamed as an Insolvent. 

Note — All debts dm* to the estate should be paid to me. 

M. M. CHAKRABARTY, 
Official Assignee of Calcutta. 

0, Council House Strict, Calcutta. 

Dated this 10th day ot March 1902 


ROAD CE88 NOTIFICATION 

1 ilF District Board of Miduapore at its special meeting 
held on 12th January 1902 resolved that Rond (Vs** Ik* 
fixed at the maximum rate ot six pies (three nave paise) 
on each rupee of the amount value of all lands, etc., in 
the district of Midnnporo tor the year 1902-03. 

The 12t li Aland. 1902. 

M. MAH AT A . 

Chairman. District Boaid, Miduapore. 

(251- 1) 


HOWRAH DI8TRICT BOARD 
NOTIFICATION 

THE District Board ot Howrah nt its Special Meeting held 
on 2Hth Febiuary BMi2 decided under section 40 of the 
Local Self-Government Acr to lew road toss in the 
Howrah district during tin* ensuing cess year (1902-03) at 
the maximum rate of six pies in the rupee on the annual 
value of lands, etc. 

M. L. BAST, 

Chairman, Howrah District Board. 

(232 — i ) 


124 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 22, 1962 


[Bart I, 


COMPANY PETITION NO. GO of 1962 

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
Original Jurisdiction 
In th« matter of Companies Act lo.io 

And 

In the matter ot The C^ah utta Agency Private Limited, 
Petitioners. 

Notice of the Hearing of Petition 

NOTICE is hereby given that a petition was, on the 2()th 
day oi Febrmitv 1962, presented to the Couit by the 
aboveiuimed Company, to eonfinn the alteiatum of the 
Memorandum oi Assoc iation ot the said ( oinpany lesolvid 
on by a Special Resolution ot the ('oinpany passed at the 
Extraordinary General Meeting oi the said ('ompany held 
on the 10th day ot January 1902 a* follows:— 

“RESOLVED unanimously that the Momoiandum ot 
Association oi the ('oinpany la* altered by adding alter 
sub-clause :Ri) as separate sub-clause as follows:— 

“To guaiantee the repayment ot loans taken by any 
other Company or Association of which the Company 
shall be tlie Managing Agent or Agent”. 

And Notice is iurther given that the said petition is 
directed to hr heard before the Court on Monday, the Mb 
day ot April 1 962, and any person inteiest'sl in the said 
Company as a debent urc-holdei ci editor or member thereol, 
or otheiwise, who wishes to oppose the making ol an 
Order confirming the' said alteration should give notice ot 
his intent ion and the grounds ol his objection in writing to 
the Solicitors ol the ('ompany so as to leach them nor 
later than two days before the date fixed lor hearing and 
should appear at the time ol hearing in person or by an 
advocate wluii lie will he heard. A copy ol the said 
petition will he turnishul to any such person requiting it 
on payment ot the prescribed charges lor the same. 

Dated tins 12th da> of March 1 0(52. 

C. C. ('1 IDNDER A CIO. 

Solicitors lor the ('ompany. 

(2.17 -1 ) 


NOTICE 


STATE BANK OF INDIA 


Calcutta. March 9, 1962. 


THE billowing a|>pointmeiits on the Rank s staff am 
hereby notified: 

Shri A. K Kumlu. Stall Assistant, Acting Ac< ountanl, 
llhowa mpoi e Brunch, Calcutta, to he Agent ot that 
branch in addition to his own duties, as horn the I'Hh 
•laiiuai \ 1962, n«v Shri K. I*. Das Gupta. 

Sliri (J. C. Ihswas Stall A^si.dant. t) he Agent, 
Bhowampore Rtainh. Calcutta, as I mm the IDh 
danuan I9<>2. Nice Sin i \. K. Kundu. 

Shri r. ( dim Slafl Assistant, to he Agmt, Bamptij- 
l,i, t Rianch. as liom the 22nd Febmarv 1962, vice 
Shri R. ('. Topnder 

Shri K. I* Das Gupta. Slatl Assistant, to he Agent, 
Rhow aiiipon Branch, Calcutta as from the *th Eeh 
man 1 9i >2 vice Shri (i. C. Riswas. 

Shri l\ Sen, Mih Act o.mtaiit . held tcmporaiy charge 
ot Maun ktala Pav Office (under Shambn/.aai Rranch 
Calcutta! !rt»m the 2f*ih to the Alst Janunrv 1962 
inclusive, \ue >}ih A. K. Sen(ff). 


Shri S. L Sark.u clerk held temporan eliaigc ol 
Kalvam Sub IV Office i under Ranagliat Branch) Irom 
the 'close nl business on the Sh to the commencement: 
of husimss on the 12th Eehruary 1962, vice Shri I). P. 
Mukherjee. 

Ry order, 

R. K. KACKER. 

Secretin > and Treasurer. 


( 231 — 1 ) 


ARUN MUKHERJEE, LL.R. f intends to be enrolled » 
nn Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 11 

( 186 — 4 ) 


DOL COBINDA BANKRJEE, LL.B., intends to he enroll*! 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 

( 197 - 4 ; 


OOLOK NATH DAN, LL.U., intends to be enrolled as „ 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. ' 1 

(198—4) 


COPAL CHANDRA DAS, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
^n Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(199-4) 


BIN AY KUMAR BANDYOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends p, 
be eni oiled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(200-4) 


SCRAL CHANDRA DAS, LL.B., intends to be entailed 
i\n Advocate oi 1 hi' Calcutta High Court. 

( 201 - 4 ) 


KA/d AHAMED AL1, LL.B., intends to be enrolled ns un 
Advocate ot the (Calcutta High Court. 

^202 -4) 


KAMABATAR ACARWALA. LL.B.. intends to bt 
i'nrollcd as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(203 4 1 


SHRI AR I N KUMAR DRTTA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate ol the High Court at Calcutta 

(204- i> 


SHIM D. N. CHAKLADAR intends to be enrolled a: aii 
Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(207 -1) 


DWARIIv \ PRASAD AGARWAL, LL.B^ intends to br 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(212 — R 


ANIL Kl : M Alt ('HOUDHURY, LL.1L, intends to he en- 
rolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(216-D 


A LAY KUMAR SAHA, LL.B., intends tn be enrolled as 
i Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 217 - 4 ) 


piltT Hi 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 22, 1962 


1/5 


ct’BHASH KUMAR BANDYOPADHYAY. LL.B.. intends 
io be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High ( mirt 

(218 — 4) 


i>\*NGA NATH CHAKRABARTI, LL.B., intends to be 
^rolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(219 — 4) 


KUMAR SARKAR, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

J (220—4) 


plJl’SH KANTI DHAR, LL.B., intends to be enrolled a® 
’ Advocate of the < Calcutta High Court. 

“ ‘ (221 — 4) 


KUMAR BHADRA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
ns an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(222 — 4) 


NOTICE 


NOTICE is noreby given that an Extraordinary Genorul 
Meeting of the Shareholders of Messrs. Central Kankanet 
Collieries Pvt Ltd., will be held at 65 Panehanantoiln 
Road, Howrah, on 11th April 1902, at 3 p.m. to conside: 
and if thought fit to pass with or without modification the 
following Special Resolution:— 


“RESpLVED that as no useful purpose is being served 
by running Messrs. Central Kankanoe Collieries Pit 
Ltd. the Company be put into Members’ Voluntary 
Winding-up and that Shri P. C. Mukherjec of 65 Pancha 
nantolla Rond, Howrah, be appointed the Liquidator at 
a remuneration of R$ 100 (Rupees One Hundred only, 
for such winding up and that he be empowered to 
exercise the power conferral by sections 457 and 494 m 
the Companies Act, 1956 ’’ 


Explanatory Statement 


As there is no hope tur mining am finance tn iuu tin* 
Company it is desirable that the* Company be wound up 
bv Members Voluntary Winding-up. 


•WUKE PHANINDRA NATH SEN intends to be enrolled 
.jj au Advocate in the High Court at Calcutta. 

(223 — 4) 


DHARM RAJ SINGH, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(235 — \ ) 


SHRI CHARAN BARAL, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
a* an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(241 — 4) 


SATINDRA NATH BISWAS, LL.B , intends to be enrolled 
us an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(240—4 i 


RAN A TIT Kt MAR MANUAL, LL.B., inumds to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(247—4) 


HARJ PRASAD CHA UDHVR1, M.Com., LL.B.. intends ,o 
be enrolled as an Advocate o| the Calcutta High Court, 

(248-4) 


PRAMATIIA NATH PANDIT, M.A.. LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocato of the Calcutta High Court. 

(249—4) 


SHRI AJITCHANDRA MAJUMDAR, LL.B , intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


By order of the Board, 

K. (\ MDKHERJ EE. Hired m 


Dated the 15th March 1962. 


(24(4 1 i 


LI&I ur rum. I CATIONS DURING THE MONTH 


Acts 


DECEMBER, 1901 


1 West Bengal Act IV ol U)61 (The West 
Bengal Appropriation Act, 1961) 

2 West Bengal Act VI of 1961 [The West 
Bengal Appropriation (No. 2) Act, 1961] 

o W B. Act XXXTTT of 1951 

Reports 

4 Tin Indian Law Reports, Calcutta Series 
1959, Vol. II, July 

5. West Bengal Legislative Assembly Proceedings 
Vol XXTT, No. 1, (Feb. -March, 1959) 


6 . 


Quarterly Legislation 
(April June, 1960) 


Recorder, No 46, 


A : ts and Audit Rules for Oram and Anehal 
Panchayet (in Nepali) 


Available at 


Price 

Rv 

0.12 

0.12 

6.00 


2.00 


10 no 


4.25 


00 


' 1 ‘ West Bengal Government Presa, Publication Branch 
48 Gopalnagar Road, Calcutta-27. 


(250 — 4) 


NOTICE 


NOTICE is hereby given to the members if the public tl 
*™ a ^ u * a * Mukherjec erstwhile four annas Purtr 
0 Messrs. Howrah Forging and Trading Co,, having 
leistered Office at 8/1 Ramkrishna Mandir Path, Howrt 
Jt* *l° ^ aWft y ^is right title and interest in the same 
for i Partner Shri Sunil Kumar Dey of the an id concc 
nf .. T i u , 1® consideration by executing a registered dc 
tin* t’ ^ a tcd 2nd March 1962 and has severed his comni 
O0T ,V roin the said partnership. The undersigned arc t 
°»tmuing partners of the* said concern. 


RENTTKA DEY, 

SUNIL KUMAR DEY, Partners, 
Howrah Forging and Trading Co. 

nlfe? k Er Bhn f Mandir P»th, Howrah. 

1 March 1962. 

( 236 - 1 ) 


(2) Publication Sales Office. 

1 Ha. stings Street, Calcutta (Loeul Cash Sales mi U > 

(3) Das Gupta & Co. (P) Ltd., 

54/3 College Street, Calcutta-12. 

(4) Ohuckervertty. Chatterjee & Co Ltd 
1; Coliege Square, Calcutta-12. 

(5) S. O. Sarkar & Sons (P) Ltd., 

1C College Square, Calcutta-12. 

(6) S. K. Lahiri & Co. (P) Ltd., 

College Street, Calcutta. 

(7) Orient Book Co., 

9 Shy am a Charan De Street, Calcutta-12. 

(8) M. C. Sarkar & Sons (P) Ltd., 

14 Bankim Chatterjee Street, Calcutta-12, 

(9) Oxford Book Stationery Co., 

17 Park Street, Calcutta-16. 

(10) Firma K. L. Mukhopadhyay, 

6/1A Banchharam Akrur Lane, Calcutta-12. 



glstered No. C207 



Oklntfta 







[TJIA 8 ] 


THURSDAY, MARCH 29, 1962 


[ SARA 1884 


PART II— Advertisements, Notices 

Mdure regarding sanding Manuscripts for publication of Advertisements, Notices, oto., in the 

“Caleutta Gazette” (Part II). 

1. Manuscripts should be properly edited and complete in itself. 

2. Manuscripts should always be typewritten on one side of the paper. The name of signatory should be typewritten 
w the signature. 

3 Manuscripts intended for advertisement in the next issue of “Oalcutta Gazette” shall be received by Publication Sales 
* of New Secretariat Buildings, 1 Hastings Street, Calcutta, up to 3-30 p. m. on Friday and at Head Office at Aliporo up to 
i, m. on Saturday. 

4 . All costs shall be paid in advance and deposited along with the manuscripts. 

5 Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING (PUBLICATION 
INCH), WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS. ALIPORE. 

The press shall no t be hol d responsible for delay In publication of any advertisement due to the non-oosarvancc of the 
actions detailed above. 


UNION PUBLIC 8ERVICE COMMISSION 
Advertisement No. 12 

MiM ’ \ l IONS are invited for undermentioned posts 
i Indian citizens and persons oi Indian origin migrated 
t i'iihislaii w itb intention oi permanently settling in 
,> subjects of Nepal, Sikkim or State id Pondicherry, 
domiciled in (ion, Dunum and Diu. Age limits 
table for Government servants except where otherwise 
ified. rppei age limits ivlaxnble by 5 years for Sehe- 
; 1 ( asteh and Scheduled Tribes candidates. No relaxi*- 
>•>1 others, v:ne in exceptional circumstances, and will 
11 ‘.e.c |,c rcl.iNcd beyond three years. Qualifications 
^bie at Commission’s discretion in case of candidates 
rwise well qualified. Particulars and application forms 
l,,!, hlc i mm SecietniN, LTnion Public Service Commis- 
P*»'i Ko\ No ISO, New Delhi. Request for forms 
> unine oi post and should be accompanied by 

• iitiii*. unstamped envelope lor each post at least 
1/(1 ' r a |" indicating thereon name of posts for which 
s 11(1 icquired. ( losing date lor receipt of application 
t" iMin ieceipl or cn/ssod Indian Postal Order for 
' (I w ill*, for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 

. m n^pei t ol Item No. 1 only ‘21st, May 19(52 (4th 
for applicants from abroad) and for all Other 
* -*h(l Apnl 1 962 (7th May 1962 for applicants from 
' a ‘ Separate application with separate fee required 
'' M ' 1 l ,0s t. Candidates ahinad may apply on plain 
1 fcrnis are not available and deposit fee with local 
J 11 Embassy. II, required candidates must appear for 
,0 «al inlei view. 


«r 8 1? Sen * or F ®Nows and (b) 44 Junior Fellov 
fiins i o inl8tr y of D® f a«oo for researoh and advanoc 
ctr2»il n s i\ ,enco and Engineering subjects, viz., Physio 
wta* Chemistry, Metallurgy, Mathsmatios, Statistic 


Engineering (Chemical, Electrical, Mechanical and Aero- 
nautical), Instrument Technology, Physiology and Psycho- 
logy. The fellows on appointment will be imparted train- 
ing in the Defence Research Laboratories and Development 
Establishments where they will be given a course not only 
on tile general background of the Research and Deveiop- 
mem Organisation and on the broad nature oJ del once 
science problems but also advanced training and/or research 
problems pertaining to the above subjects. Their training 
ma> ulso include temporary attachments to field units/ 
wens. The period oi Fellowships will be one year in the 
fiist instance extendable lo 2 years depending upon the 
subjects efficiency attained and requirements. Pays — Tlie 
value of Junior Fellowship will he Rs. 250 per month and 
that ol Senior Fellowship Rs. 400 (R's. 500 in specialised 
subjects). On successful completion of the training, the 
fellows will he considered lor admission to the Defence 
Research and Development Organisation in one of the 
following grades: (a) Senior Scientific Officer: Grade 11 
( seal * : Rs. 400— 400— 800— 5(1—' 950). (b) Junior Scientific 

Officer : 4 (Rs. .‘{50- 25—500—40- 590- K. B . — 30 — 800 — E . B . 
—.30 -830 — ■35— 900). Ag6: — 30 years and below as on 1st 
June 1962 for alt including Government servants. Qualifi- 
cations: Essential — (i) At least, second class Master’s 
degree in Physics, Chemistry, Electronics, Mathematics, 
Statistics, Physiology, Psychology (or) second class degree 
in Metallurgy or Instruments Technology or in Engineering 
(Chemical. Mechanical, Electrical or Aeronautical) of recog- 
nised University. Note: Candidates who have appeared in 
the Current University examination will also he eligible to 
apply lor Junior Fellowships. At the time of interview 
they will he required to produce documentary proof of 
having passed in the examination in the required class/ 
division, (ii) For 8enlor Fellowship only: About, two years’ 
researoh experience. 


128 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


[Part i 


2. Two Directors, Grade II, 8mall Soale Industries 
Organisation, Ministry of Commeroe and Industry. Posts 

temporary but likely to continue. Pays— Re. 1,100 — 50— 
1,400. Higher initial pay to specially, qualified and experi- 
enced candidates. Agas — 45 years and below. QuaJIAca - 
Nonas Essential— (i) Master’s Degree preferably in Com- 
merce, Economics or Business Management of a recognised 
University or equivalent qualification. (ii) About seven 
years’ experience in a responsible administrative capacity 
in a Government Organisation, Statutory Body, or well- 
established industrial or business concern of nepute. 

3. Five Civil Assistant 8urgeons, Grade I (Including one 
for laboratory work and one for Radiology), Central 
Research Police Hospital, Neemuoh, Ministry of Health. 

Posts are temporary but likely to continue. Tests are 
reserved for Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidates but if no 
such suitable, candidates available, all poBts will be treated 
as unreserved. Pay:— Us. 325 — 25 — 500 — 30— 590— E .B.— 
30-8LK) plus non-practismg allowance of Rs. 150 per month 
(fixed). Private practice of any kind will not be allowed. 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified aud experienced 
candidates. Ages — 30 years ami below. Qualifications: 
Essential — (i) A Medical qualification included in the First 
or Second Schedule oi Tart II of the Third Schedule (other 
than Licentiate qualifications) to the Indian Medical 
Council Act, 1950. 1 Persons possessing qualifications 

included m Tart 11 of Third Schedule should also fulfil the 
conditions relating to registration specified in section 13(3) 
of the Act. | (ii) About two .Years’ experience as House 
Surgeon or in private practice. 

4. One Deputy Adviser in Soil Conservation (Engineer- 
ing) in the Department of Agriculture, Ministry of Food 
and Agriculture. Tost temporary hut likely to become 
permanent. Pay:— 11s. 1.000- 50—1,400 plus special pay 
of Rs. 150 per month (subject to revision on the baeis of 
Pay Commission's recommendations). Higher initial pay 
to specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age: — 
Treforably below 50 years for all including Government 
servants. Qualifications: Essential — (i) Degree in Civil 
Engineering or Agricultural Engineering of recognised 
University m equivalent, (ii) ^bout ton years’ experience 
ill a responsible capacity of winch about five years should 
be in soil conservation engineering. 

5. Nine Meteorologists, Grade II, In the India Meteoro- 
logical Department, Ministry of Transport and Communica- 
tions. Tests temporary but likely to continue indefinitely. 
One post reserved for Scheduled Castes candidate if such 
suitable candidate is available otherwise treated unreserv- 
ed. Note: Sixteen additional vacancies are likely to occur 
in this grade c/f which 2 for Scheduled CaBtes and 1 for 
Scheduled Tribes candidates will be treated as reserved if 
such suitable candidates are available otherwise all posts 
would be treated unreserved. Pay: — Rs. 4fK> — 40 — 800 — 50 
—950. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experi- 
enced candidates. Age:— 32 years and below. Qualifica- 
tions: Essential — (n First class Master’s degree in Physics 
or Applied Physics or Geophysics or Radio-physics or 
Electronics or Physical Chemist rv or Mathematics or Statis- 
tics or Meteorology of recognised University or equivalent. 
(Or) First class Master's degiee in Astronomy or Astro- 
physics with experience oT management of astronomical 
telescopes and ancillary apparatus at well established astro- 
nomical observatory and research work in Astronomical 
Spectroscopy. (Or) First class degree in Electrical Engi- 
neering. (ii! Adequate research experience and capacity 
to undertake* independent, research. Note: A candidate 
with Master’s degree in Physical Chemistry or Mathematics 
should have read Physics up to B.Sc. standard. 

6. Two Ctiain Commanders, Department of Lighthouses 
and Lightships, Ministry of Transport and Communications. 

Post temporary but likely to continue indefinitely. Other 
things being equal, preference will be given to Scheduled 
Castes /Tr, lies candidates. Pay:* Rs. (>00—40—1,000—1,000 
7-1 ,050- *1 ,050—1 ,100—1 .100 - 1 ,150. (Scale of pay is liable 
lor revision in the light, of Pay Commission’s recommenda- 
tions.) Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experi- 
enced candidates. Ago:— 10 years and below. Qualifica- 
tions: Essential — (i) Degree in Radio Engineering, or 
Electrical Engineering with Radio Communication as a 
special subject, of a recognised University, (ii) About five 
years’ experience in a responsible position in the wireless 
field, including installation and maintenance of wireless 
transmitters,' receivers, automatic relay systems and a good 
background in Mechanical Engineering. 


7. One Ophthaimlo Surgeon, School Medical 
Municipal Corporation of Delhi, Ministry of Health i? 

permanent. Pay* — Rs. 300 — 25 — 500 — E.B. — C5U JVvrS 

plus 25 per cent, of pay as non-practising allowance i 
usual dearness and c/ther allowances. (Scale of r JU y p 1 
allowances are subject to revision in the light of 
mission’s recommendations.) Private practice of any k 
will not be allowed. Higher initial pay to specially qn a u 
and experienced candidate. Age: — Below 35 years 4 iw 
fioations*. Essential — (i) A Medical qualification included 
the First or Second Schedule or Part II of Third KchJi 
to the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956. [Persons p ()ssp 
iug qualifications included in Part II of Third ft bed* 
should also fulfil the conditions relating to 
specified in section 13(3) of the Act.] (ii) About five Veai 
experience m the speciality m any institution ol i ejiu te 

H. Five Lecturers in Engineering in the Directorate 
Marine Engineering Training, Ministry of Transport », 
Communications. Two posts permanent and three teniu 
iaiy but likely to become permanent. One j>ost is rCspr yJ 
ior Scheduled Castes candidate if such suitable candid! 
is available, otherwise all posts treated unreserved Pawl 4 
Rs. 90l>~~40 — L J 00 — 50 — 1 ,400 — 50/ 2 — 1 ,500. Higher info 
pay to specially qualified and experienced candidates. Aki 
— 10 \eais and below. Qualifications: Essential— (i) 
ficate </l Competency as Extra First Class Engineer, r 
I Those who possess only Certificate of Competency ’a# p, rj 
( lass Engineer, M.O.T. (Motor and Steam) will also { 
considered, but on their selection they will be required i 
obtain Certificate of Competency as Extra First Cla< 
Engineer within a reasonable time.] (ii) Experience as 
Second Engmeei and/or Chief Engineer in Foreign g«i D 
ship in the Merchant Navy. 

9. Thirty Assistant Signal and Telecommunication Em 
neers, Ministry of Railways. Posts temporary but hkd 
to continue. Seven posts reserved for Scheduled Tastes 
three for Scheduled Tribes if such suitable candidates ar 
mailable. Pay:— Rs. 100-400 -450—30 *600 35 -67(u 
E.B. — 35 950. Age:— Between 25 and 35 years, for a 
including Government servants. Qualifications: Essentii 
— (i) Degree in Mechanical or Electrical Engineering o 
Degree in Telecommunication Engineering or eqimalm 
diplomas of recognised Universities and insf.it ui urns, (n 
About three years’ professional experience. 

10. Parasitologist in the Entomology Division, India 
Agricultural Research Institute, Ministry of Food an 
Agriculture, (Department of Agriculture). Post temporary 
but likely to continue. Pay: — Rs. 700* -50— 1,250. Highei 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate, 
Age: 45 years and below. Qualifications: Essential n| 
M S’ d egiee m Zoology or Agriculture with spocialisalio 
in Entomology, or m Entomology or Asxocinteship (j 
I.A.R.I. in Entomology. (ii) About seven years’ rrstwi 
experience in Taxonomy ol Parasitic Hymen njitera J 
evidenced by published papers. ( i i i ) Experience o) Mirvci 
collection and identification of parasites and piednlor ■ 

11. Junior Parasitologist, Entomology Division, India? 

Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi. Pest tempi 
rary. Post reserved for Scheduled Castes candidate, 
such smf able candidate available, otherwise treated M 
l eserved Pay: — Rs. 400 — 100 — 450- 30 — <>( HI — :U> -07 l1 

E.B. - 35— 950. Higher initial pay to specially qualilicd m 
experienced candidate. Age: — 10 years and below Qtwl 
flea t ions: Essential — (i) M.Sc. degree in Zooh/g\ or 
cull ure with specialisation in Entomology, or m Eutom 
logy, or Assnciateship of I.A.R.I. in Entomology, b 
About three years’ research experience in the inv</noin' < 
parasitic Hvmcnoptera as evidenced by published papers 

12. Entomologist, Directorate of Plant Protect 

Quarantine and Storage, Ministry of Food and Agriculttf 
Department of Agriculture. Post temporary, but hM rl 
become permanent. Pust reserved for Scheduled (’n^ 
Tribes candidate. WHO ALONE NEED APPLY. W* 
Rs. 350—25 — 500 — 30 — 5<ML E. B- 3(V 800--E B 

830—35 — 900. Higher initial pay to sjieciallv (pinlified a® 
experienced candidate. Age: — Between 25 and 40 year 
Qualifications: Essential— (i) B.Sc. with Zoology or ^ 
cultural Zoology as one of the subjects, or B.Sc. degree! 
Agriculture, (ii) About three years’ experience of rescarj 
on insect pests and their control and three years’ 
enoe cyf plant protection or plant quarantine work. 


Part W 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


129 


On* AMltUnt Engtowtr (Civil) In the Public Works 
flwarttnent, Tripura Administration. Post temporary but 
•'■v. w , continue. Other things being equal, Scheduled 
S Tribes candidate would be preferred. Pay: — Rs. 

or^V-^iW-K. B.— 25— (575— E. B. — 25 — 850. Higher 

■ Muf nav to specially qualitied and experienced candidate. 
aes:— y<* ars ant ^ below. Qualifications: Essential — 
' 0 m Civil Engineering from recognised University or 
iivttleut. (Or) Diploma in Civil Engineering from recog- 
^ed Institute with about eight years’ experience in 
jesign i construction and maintenance of civil engineering 
works. 


14 One 8ubtfivlsional Officer (Assistant Engineer), 
Electrical, In the Public Works Department, Tripura. Post 
jponiry but likely to continue. Other things being 
iniil Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidate would be prefer- 
"*j Pay: Ks. 250 -25- 175--E. li. — 25 — 075— E. B.— 25— 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experi- 
Hurd candidate. Age: — .‘15 years and below. Qualifica- 

tions! Essential — Degiee in Electrical Engineering from 
rm»giiisc>d University or equivalent. (Or) Diploma in Elec- 
tucfll Engineering from recognised Institute with about 
eitfht years’ experience in the line. 


CORRIGENDUM 

One Assistant Agricultural Commissioner on the Adminis- 
tration (Govt.) side of the Indian Counoll of Agricultural 
Research. In nartial modification of item No. 19 of the 
Commission's advertisement No. 29 published on 22nd duly 
19(11, it is notified for general information that in place of 
one jxist of Horticulturist on the Research (Non-Govern- 
ineiu) side of the Council, one post ot Assistant Agricultu- 
ral Commissioner, l.C.A.it., has been created on the 
Administration (Government) side in the revised scale of 
Its. 700 — 50 1,250 requiring the same qualifications, viz.. 

Essential: (i) M.Sc. (Agriculture) with specialisation in 
Horticulture or M.Sc. in Horticulture ot recognised Univer- 
sity or Associateship of T.A.H.I. in Horticulture or equiva- 
lent, (ii) About live years’ research and practical experience 
in Horticulture work particularly in relation to limits. 
Desirable: Post-graduate traiuing in Systematic Pomology. 
Age: - Below 45 years; relaxable for Government servants, 
as before. Fresh applications invited up to 19th April 
19ii2. Those who applied for the post of Horticulturist in 
response to Com mission ’.^advertisement. No. 29, dated 22nd 
duly 1901 need not apply again. 

NOTICE 


15. One Export Promotion Officer (Senior) / Controller, 
Export Promotion, Directorate of Export Promotion, Minis- 
try of Commerce and Industry. Post temporary but likely 
to continue. Posl reserved for Scheduled Castes /Tribes 
candidate it no such suitable candidate is available, will 
be t rented as unreserved. Pay: — Rs. 740 — .‘50 — 830 — 35-- 
900 Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experi- 
fjii t‘d candidate. Age: — 45 years and below. Qualifications: 
Essential — (0 Degree of a recognised University, or equi- 
valent 00 About seven years’ experience in responsible 
Biipeivisory capacity in Government Department, or Corpo- 
ration or business concern of repute. 


IG One Export Promotion Officer (Junior)/ Assistant 
Controller, Export Promotion, Ministry of Commerce and 

ndustry. Post temporary and likely to continue. Post 
(•served for Scheduled Castes/Tribes candidate. Applioa- 
lons invited from Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidates only. 

•ay:- Its. 100 25— 500-30— 590— E. B 30 — 800. Ifigher 

wind pa' t<> specially qualified and experienced candidate, 
iger 15 .\cars and below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) 
ol a recognised University, (ii) About five years’ 
Npri iciice in a responsible supervisory capacity in Gov- 
1 1 > men L Department, Corporation, or business concern of 
Hpute. 


17 One Principal Scientific/ Technical Officer, Directo- 
ate of Technical Development and Production (Air), 

fiwstry of Defence. Post temporary but likelv to bo 
ci:ii tied on permanent basis eventually. Pay:— Rs. 1,100 
-ji) --1 2'K)— 1(K)— 1,5()0. Higher initial pay to specially 
[Uahht’d and experienced candidate. Age: — 15 years and 
lo, j idl including Government servants. Qualifications: 
ssential-(i) Master’s degree with research /design experi- 
n ; 51 Doctor’s degree in Aeronautical Engineering or 
f l'n\ a cut qualification, (ii) About 10 years experience m 
*’ design and development of aircraft, of which at 
‘ M ‘ * u ‘ a,s should have been in a responsible capacity. 


•inutru nf T u B ;,. ( t ffloe 1 r 1 ’ Coa| M,ne * Lab °ur welfare Fund 
y of Health. ] ost permanent and reserved fo 
^.WTriW o^.lidntP; if no such snitabl 
(, .'Jj. n '*dnhJe, will he treated as unreserved. Pay:- 

;V ° tt( f; 1 - •1 ,M> -‘)0— .590—K. B. — .TO — 800 — E. B.-V 

n , . P* us non* practising allowance of 25 Tier cent 

^,7,’ ’ 7'''' t<)a minimum of Rs. 150 per month. Privat 
,a\ i„ k»i;l w^h not be allowed. Higher initil 

-illl , . qualified and experienced candidate. Age 

WedicaV I ;':., r • , Qualification*: Essential— (i) , 

hih- ji;-- 1 'bc’atnm inchnled in the First or S<-eond Sc he 
^ V °. , 1 l, I " r «( Schedule (oilier than Eieentiat 
JVrs,, :' Ul1 ' '"‘ .'an M.xlirul Council Act, 1950 
third S ( .l l !' h,i7‘ ! .' 1 n " included in Part II o 

,e »stiatu„, *! s -!'.’ 111 u so the conditions relating ti 
V-vra'i’i* 1 ’ 0 ' .- fifif ' tlon 13 W of the Act.] (ii 
1111 r’ ( l ,,a hfieation in Tuberculosis, e.g., TDD 
f.Tuhereulo^ ^ Pr^tiea. 1 experience /n the treatmen 
U ,lr pnZl ", San “ tor, um or in a large Hospi 

I "essional experience in treating T.B. patients. 


IT is notified lor general information that recruitment to 

the posts ot Two Junior Research Officers for Armed Foroes 
Headquarters, Ministry of Defenoe, advertised in Commis- 
sion’s advertisement No. 10, item No. 1, which appeared 
on 10th March 19(52 has been cancelled. Application fee 
paid hv candidates will he refunded in duo course. 


PUBLIC 8ERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENQAL 

General instructions to oandldates applying in response to 
advertisements issued by the Commission for recruit- 
ment to posts of M 8eleetlon M . 

(1) Instructions regarding submission of applloatlon. - 

Applications are to be made on the prescribed toim which 
will ho available from the office of the Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal, Anderson House (giou/id Hour). 
Alipore. Calcutta-27, personalty or on sending a large eell- 
udd tossed envolc/pe with stamps sufficient to cover the 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who arc unable to obtain 
copies of the proscribed torin may apply on any similar 
typed (not handwritten) form show tug exactly the word- 
mo and spacing ot the sample form published in the 
“Calcutta Gazette” of the 1st September 1955, provided 
the blanks are tilled up in the candidates’ own handwriting. 

(2) Particulars and certificates required.— Candidates 
should furnish evidence o) their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
Horn responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character. 

The Commission accepts only the age of a candidate? as 
locorded m the Matriculation or the Secondary School 
Final /Leaving Certificate. In the case of a lemnle candi- 
date whose age is not recorded in the Matriculation oi 
School Final Certificate, any of the following evidence ot 
age is accepted by the Commission: — 

1. A certificate from the Headmistress of the school* 

which she last attended, showing her exact age as 
recorded in the school register. 

2. An affidavit regarding her age sworn by her father 

or mother or some other person in a position to 
know by having been present or hcaid of her birth 
at the time of occurrence. 

3. A certificate regarding hei age, Irorn a Member of 

the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who must, 
have known the candidate and her family, indicat- 
ing clearly the evidence on the basis of which he/ 
she satisfied himself /herself on the point. 

(.1) Fee.- Candidates must enclose with their spolia- 
tions a fee of Re. 6 In the form of a receipted cfialan 
from a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India 
under the bead “XXXVI-^Miscellaneotis — Receipts of the 



130 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. MARCH 29, \%2 


Public Service Commission, West Bengal'’. Money orders, 
cheques, etc., in lieu of treasury challanu are not accepted 
Postal order, however, may be accepted lrom candidates. 
Tbe> should be crossed and made payable to “The Secre- 
tary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal". No appli- 
cation will be considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application fee. 

Candidates abroad may deposit their application fees 
with the High Commissioner of India or the Embassy. a* 
the caeo may he, and obtain receipts lor the same, which 
will have to he attached to then applications to he sub 
mittod to the Commission. 

Candidates in Covornment service should make "ure 
bet ore depositing lec that their applications will be forward- 
ed by their superior officers, in no case will the fee paid 
with the application he refunded. 

The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona lide displaced person from Pakistan. 

An indigent displaced person shall, m the first instance, 
pay the application foe prescribed tor a gazetted post 
advertised by the Commission hut if he/sho is selected for 
and appears* at the interview, the tee paid hv him/her ail! 
be refunded atterwards. 


Note.— “(1) A Misplaced person claiming age concession 
must turnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is bona tide displaced person limn Pakistan, eg 
refugee registration card or a certificate lrom a gazetted 
officer or a Member ot Parliament or State legislature, in 
original. 


(li) A member of the Scheduled CV.te or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his appli- 
cation a certificate m original from a gazetted officer or a 
Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging lo 
the Scheduled Cantu or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 

(in) A displaced person seeking i emission of the applica 
tion lee must furnish beside# the evidence required under 
Note (i) above, a certificate (in original 1 Horn a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or » Member ni Parham* nt m 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a poAiinm to 
pay the proscribed fee.” 

(4) Address. -Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 

(5) Canvassing.- -A n v attempt on the pari of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials ot Government will disqualify then 
tor appointment. Spontaneous ie* mmneiidation lime 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will be disregarded. 

(t>) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under atiy Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Vallc\ Corpniatuin), in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their post* or service 

Candidates <er\ mg under Government or n local or 
Statutory Bodv should submit an advance copy in the pres- 
cribed form. The application fee should in such cases be 
attached to l he advance copy and not to the original. The 
candidature of such applicants may not however be con- 
sidered if the original application* do not reach the Com- 
mission’s office within a fortnight from the closing date. 
Unless applications in original or advance copies with 
application fees tiro received within the closing date, late 
applications may bo rejected. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Alipore, the 27th January 1W1. 


[Part n 


AdmrtteMMRt No. 14 r - 

APPLICATIONS are invited from Indian citizenR f or **„ 
temporary posts ol Asalstant Prof.soor of Physioi in 
West Bengal Educational Service (Men’s Branch). Wom«« 
unsuitable. Pay* — Rs. 32/S — 30 — 476 — 36 — 1,000 per month 
Higher initial pay up to Re. 475 may be allc/wed on th< 
basis ot qualifications and experience. 

Qualifications: Essential— (i) A iirBt class Master’ 
degree, Or, A second class Master’s degree with first da* 
Honours iri the Bachelor’s degree Or, A Doctorate degr* 
with a second class Master’s or first class Honours degree 
oj .n Indian university, in Physics, Or, Equivalent toie^, 
qualifications, m) Two years’ teaching experience In , 
< ml**;;*' in the subject, relaxable in the case of candidate 
possessing exceptionally high academic qualifications 0 
having done significant research work; (iii) Ability t 
lecture in Bengali. Desirable-^ Capacity for carrying 01 
research v ork in the case of candidates who do not posses 
a Doctorate degree. Age: — Not mc/re than 35 years on tin 
1st April 1962, relaxable in case of candidates possessinj 
exceptionally high qualifications and tor persons holdinj 
sti b, stall 1 1 \ e appointment in tlie Education Department 
West Bengal. 

The age limit is also relaxable by five years for Schedtili 
Gustos/ Tribes and up to 45 years for displaced person 
lrom Pakistan. 

A candidate who before the 35th August 1947, wa 
detained, imprisoned, interned or oxtorned on account u 
Ins activities n connection with the country's struggle f 0 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicatin 
moi-.d turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession in respec 
nt the age limit. The concession granted will bo equal t 
the exact period of detention, imprisonment, internment o 
externment suflored up to a maximum <>! four >eais 

A ]>j >1 \ to Se letary with a Treasury Cliahin of Ks. 
ui'dci head “XXXVI- -Miscellaneous Receipts ol Puhli 
vmco ( oitiinission, West Bengal’’, or a Crossed Posti 
Oidei ol Us. 5 pavable to “Secretary, Public Service Loir 
mission. West Bengal’’. Overseas candidates mnv depas: 
l hen application Ices with the High Commission t) f Imli 
or the Indian Embassy, as the case may he. Particular 
and prescribed application forms obtainable from the offi< 
ol Hie Commission, Anderson House (ground floor), Alqiort 
Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a soli-addressr 
envelope (size 10" xO") with postage stamp ol 35 nl*. :in 
tin* name of the post superscribed on the envelope. Tims 
who intend to take application, forms and/or submit tb 
applications personally should do so between 10-15 n.n 
;,i>d .LOO ]).m. on lull working davs and between 10 15 n n 
and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 

Closing date -The 16th April 1062. 


A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Com mission. West Benya 

Alipore, the 14th March 1962. 


Advertisement No. 15 

iPPLICVriOXS are invited from Indian citizens hu d 
following po«ts* — 

la) One Professor of Economics In the West B® n & 
Senior Educational Service. Post permanent. Worn* 
unsuitable. Payi-Ks. 500 — 5(> — 1,500 (E.B. after Kill «* 
K.tli stages) per month. Higher initial pay ‘O' 

, 750 inav be granted on the hasis ot (iualifien1in ,,s n 
c'\|i*’rti me. 

Qualifications: Essential— (i) A first class >hider 

degree, Or, A Doctorate degree with first class Honoim 
si- ond class Master's degree, of an Indian IT rii * 
Kconr/inies or Politics (preferably Economies), Or, m ‘ ^ 
lent loreiirn qualifications; (ii) Evidence of having ^ 
ducted significant research work in the subject, ur » 
standing abdits to teaeli the subject at the l * on ‘ M1 ' \ 
Post-Graduate stage. Desirable— (i) Experience nt * . 
inr Honours or Post-Graduate classes; (n) Good , 
expression in Bengali- -spoken and written. Special 
tlofl— Willing participation in the corporate hm 1 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 


131 


pun in 



^ , rt , },v taking part in games and sports and social acti- 
and interest in the welfare of tho students. Ages — 
i'^miiom* than 45 yours cm the 1st April 1962, relaxable in 
^i. (use el candidates possessing exceptionally high quali- 
lt t oil'' and tor persons holding substantive appointment 
]i \)w Education Department, West Bengal. 

Closing date — The 28th April 1962. 

, , One Registrar (Technical Examinations) and ex- 
-.L Assistant Secretary, State Council for Engineering 
2d Technical Education, West Bengal, in the West Bengal 
'flfieral Servloe. Post permanent. Women unsuitable. 
! y .— |?s 500 — 25 - 850 per mc/ntb plus usual allowances. 

I Vsrulc ol pay is likely to be revised to Ks. 5(H) — 50 — 1,000 
^ month inclusive of dearness allowance. 

Qualifications: — (i) A degree in Engineering of an Indian 
• or any other qualifications exempting a nwidi- 

| )t m from appearing in Sections A and B of the Associate 
jLiherslup Examination of the Institution of Engineers 
lndiiO , »>i) Experience of work connected with Council 
|{ ()i inl Meeting and of conducting examinations, Or, 
f, , 1 ,‘liinu experience or administrative experience in a 
fK-o^m^ed Icclmicul institution. Age;: — Not more than .15 

tlJI ^ on the 1st April 1962, relaxable for an exceptionally 
candidate and for a person holding substantive 
pjiuint mt'iit in tho Education Department, West Bengal. 

Closing date— The 18th April 1982. 


i() One Assistant Professor of Fuel Chemistry, Bengal 
mgineering College, In the West Bengal Educational 

fcrvice. Post permanent. Women unsuitable. Pay:— 
| s :£>.*) :>0_ 175 — ‘15 — l,0fK) per month. Higher initial 
up to Rs. 475 may be allowed on tho basis of quahflca- 
lQ $ and experience. 

« 

Qualifications: Essential — (i) A first class Master’s 
[egret' in Pure or Applied Chemistry, Or, A second class 
IiiMitV degree* in Pure or Applied Chemistry with first 
lii$s Honours in Chemistry, Or, A Doctorate degree in 
■un* oi Vpplied ('liomistry with a second class Master’s 
( *gr< *i 1 in Pure *»r Apidied Chemistry, :*s the case may be, 
i a\ 1 1 1 1 a first class Honours in Chemistry, Or, Equivalent 
uieign <| ii;il i fica lions ; (ii) Two years’ teaching experience 
i <i col logo, relaxable in the ease of candidates possessing 
\rr|itmnall.\ high academic qualifications or having done 
jiii'ln-.int research work; (lii) Ability to lecture in 
vtig.ili Desirable— Research experience in Fuel Cliemis- 
' Special condition —Willing participation in corporate 
it ol I ho college by faking part in games and sports and 
n;d activities and interest in the welfare of the students. 
W:~\of more than .15 years on the 1st April 1962, 
l;i\,ddo in the ease of a candidate possessing exceptionally 
‘di fpiiditioations and tor persons holding substantive 
>l><unLiiioiit in tlie Education Department, West Bengal. 

Closing date— The 23rd April 1982. 


fd> Five Assistant Professors of Chemistry In the West 
engal Educational Service (Men's Branch). Pc/sts tem- 
l, ' ,,x Women unsuitable. Pay:— Its. ,125— 30 475— 

iH*i month plus house rent allowance as admissi- 
' imd« , i the rules. Higher initial pay up to Rs. 475 may 
idmwnl on the basis of qualifications and experience. 

Qualifications: Essential— (i) A first class Master’s 
Or, A second class Master’s degree with first class 
"nours degree, Or, A Doctorate degree with a second 
^ 'meter’s degree c/r first cIjksh Honours degree of an 
l 'y}} ‘ idler sit.v, in Chemistry, Or, Equivalent foreign 
■jii'it'iil mns ; (ii) Two years’ teaching experience in a 
p ^’ in Chemistry, relaxable in the case of candidates 
Hosing exceptionally high academic qualifications or 
,n * ,,on “ significant research work; (iii) Ability to 
sp UI .i 111 ^ on ^i- Desirable — Capacity for carrying on 

. arc 1 ' V(>r k in the case of those who do not possess a 
t io’? roe * Not more than 35 years on the 

lf J^ 1 . relaxable in the case of candidates possess- 

„ '“T'dlv high qualifications and for persons hold- 
f est appointment in the Education Department, 

c,# »tag data— The 23rd April 1962. 


UrtctiMi*! , J*g® otin 8 Onioer, Elect rlolty Duty, under the 
JyTlp t8 ,°* Electricity, West Bengal. Post permanent. 
K " 325.-30.-475—36—1,000 (E.B. after 8th and 


16th stages) per month. Higher initial pay up to 
Rs. 475 may he allowed on the basis of qualifications and 
experience. 

Qualifications: ( 1 ) A degree in Electrical Engineering 
or any other qualification in Electrical Engineering 
exempting a candidate from appearing in Sections A and B 
or the Associate Membership Examination of the Institu- 
tion of Engineers (India); (ii) Two years’, Post-Graduate 
training or experience in Electrical Engineering; (iii) 
Exnerieiiee in the metering of Electrical Circuits and in 
Electrical Installation work and ability to calculate the 
energy used by lights, fans, etc.; (iv) Tact and initiative 
for dealing with the* general public. Age: — Not more than 
85 years on the 1st April 1962. 

Closing date— The 23rd April 1962. 

(f) One Assistant Director of industries (8tatlstlos), 
West Bengal, In the West Bengal General 8ervloe. Post 
temporary. Pay: — Rs. 300 - 30 900 (E.B. after 8th and 
lbth stages) per month plus bouse rent allowance where 
admissible under existing rules. The question of granting 
higher initial pay may be considered in exceptional cases. 
Those* who hove already applied in response to Commis- 
sion’s preiious advertisement No. 11(d) for a similar post 
nnod not apply again; their cases will be considered for 
this post also. 

Qualifications: Essential — (i) A second class Master’s or 
Honours degree of an Indian University or an equivalent 
degree of a* foreign Unnersity in Mathematics, Statistics, 
Economies or an allied subject (ii) A diploma in Statistics 
or practical training in Statistics in case of those who do 
not possess a Master’s degree in Statistics; (iii) Adminis- 
trative experience in a (Government office or in an Indus- 
trial or Commercial concern. Desirable — (i) Knowledge of 
Industrial Quality Control; (ii) Experience of Statistical 
research or statistical survey; (iii) Knowledge of Bengali 
— spoken and written. Age: — Not more than 30 years on 
the 1st April 1962, relaxable for a specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. 

Closing date— The 18th April 1982. 

(g) One Instructor for Mining Engineering Depart- 
ment. Asansol Polytechnic, In the West Bengal General 
Service. Post, permanent. Women unsuitable. Pay: — 
Rs. 225- -10—325- 15—475 per month. 

Qualifications: — (i) A diploma in Mining Engineering 
uitli Mine Surveyor’s Certificate of Competency; (ii) Three 
years’ experience. Age: — Between 22 and 35 years on the 
1st April 1962, relaxable for exceptionally qualified candi- 
dates and for persons holding substantive appointment 
under Government. 

Closing date- The 18th April 1962. 

(Ii) One Supervisor (Livestock Management) for Goat 
section, under the Directorate of Dairy Development and 
Animal Husbandry, West Bengal. Post temporary. 
Pay: Its. 206 10- 400 (E.B. after 10th stage) por 
month plus allowances as admissible under tlie rules. 

Qualifications: Essential — (i) A degree or diploma in 

Dairying or Veterinary Science, or a degree in Agriculture; 
(ii) Practical experience at a well-run farm in the manage- 
ment of goat. Desirable — Training in a recognised Animal 
Husbandry course. Age: — Not more than 25 years on 
the 1st April 1902. relaxable for candidates specially well 
qualified and experienced. 

Closing date The 17th April 1962. 

Age concession 

The upper age limit for all the posts is relaxable by five 
v<*ars for Scheduled Castes /Tribes and up to 45 years for 
displaced persons from Pakistan. 

A candidate who before the 15th August 1947, was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his/her activities in connection with the country’s struggle 
for independence, not being convicted of a<n offence indicat- 
ing moral turpitude, shall he entitled to n concession in 
respect ol the upper age limit The concession granted 
will he equal to the exact period of detention, imprison- 
ment. internment, or externroent. suffered up to a maximum 
ot four years, 


THE CALCUTTA (JAZETTE* MARCH 2 % 1962 


1 32 


[Parx^] 


Apply to Secretary with a Treasury Chalan of Rs. 5 
umlor head “XXXVI — Miscellaneous — Receipts of Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal”, or a Crossed Postal 
Order c/f Rs. 5 payable to “Secretary, Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal”. Overseas candidates may deposit 
their application fees with tbe High Commission of India 
or the Indian Embassy, as the case may be. Particulars 
and prescribed application forms obtainable from the office 
of the Commission, Anderson House (ground floor), Alipore, 
Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a self-addressed 
envelope (size J0"x6") with postage stamp of .T> nP. and 
the name of the post superscribed on the envelope. Those 
who intend to take application forms and/or submit the 
applications personally should do so between 10-15 a.ra. 
and ,‘MK) p.m. on full working days and between 10-15 a. in. 
and 12-110 p.m. on Saturdays. 


A. 0. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Alipore, the 16th March 1062. 


ORDER OF ADJUDICATION 


fSection 27 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, V of 1920.1 

IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE AT 
ALIPORE 

Insolvency Application No. 9 of 1961 

PURSUANT to »i petition, dated Mth September 1961, 
filed agumst D. N. Hall of 117 Mominpore Road, P.S. 
Kk hnl pore, district 24-Pargimas, Debtor and on the appli- 
cation ot India ial Agarwala of No. 2, Marquis Street, Cal- 
cutta-16, Creditor and on reading the application of the 
creditor and hearing his lawyer it is ordered that the debtor 
be and the said debtor is hereby adjudged insolvent. 


It is further ordered that the debtor do apply for bis 
discharge within 20th August 1962. 


Dated this JOtli day of March 1962. 


S. SEN GUPTA, District Judge. 


(258 -1) 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE 8UB-JUDGE OF 
24»PARGANA8 


Insolvency Case No. is of 1962 


Kashi ProHHd Agarwalla, residing at No. 9, Jugmohan 
Mullik Lane, Calcutta, Creditor-Applicant. 

* ° A F Gomez, residing oi No. 5/ IB, Mominpur Road, 
Khiddcrpore, Calcuttu-23, Debtor. 


ON the 16th day of March 1962 it was oi derod that the 
matter of the petition oj the applicant be heard on the 
~/th dav of A pul 19<>2 and that the said applicant to 
attend to be examined by this Court on that date. 


Alipore, the 19th March 1962 


N. G. CHAUDHURI, 

Sub- Judge. 


IN THE 4TH OtURT OF THE 8UB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 

Insolvency Case No. 18 of 1962 

Nandlal Agarwalla, residing at No. 6, Peary Mohan p. 
Lane, Calcutta, Creditor-Applicant. 

To Slinslia-iita Kumar Biswas, residing at No. 1), |j ra 
field Row, Khiddcrpore, district 24-Parganas, 

ON the 16th day of March 1962 it was ordered that tl 
matter of the petition of the applicant he heard on 
27th clay of April 1962 and that the said apph,- an) ' 
attend to b(‘ examined by this Court on that dato. 

Alipore, the 19th March 1962. 

N. G. OH AUI)IIU]»| 
Sub- Judge. 

(2.V, l 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 

Insolvency Case No. 17 of 1962 

Haiidas Bose, lesiding at A. T. Roy Road, J\S r l’il ogai h 
district 21-Rarganas, Debtor-Applicant. 

To Basdeo Missir, Talpukur Biisti, B. T. Roiwl, P.S Uta 
garb, district 21-Parganas and 6 others, ( ' t < m(u i> t ^ 

ON the 16t.h day of March 1962 it was ordered Hint ih< 
matter of the petition of the applicant he heard on thi 
27th day of April 1962 and that the > aid applicant u 
attend to be examined by this Court on that date. 

Alipore, the 19th March 1962. 

N. G. OHAUDHUIM, 
Sub-Judge. 




IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 

Insolvency Case No. 19 of 1962 

lndralal Agarwalla, ot No. 2, Marquis Street, < 'm but ta, 
Creditor- Applicant. 

To Himangsbu Bhattaebarjeo ot No. 6-B, Iswnr (ianguh 
Street, P.S. Bhowaniporo, district 24- Parganus. Dcldor 

ON tbe 1 Bih day ot March 1962 it was ordered that if* 
matter of the petition oi tho applicant he heard on tin 
27th day of April 1962 and that the said applicant t» 
attend te be examined by this Court on that date. 

Alipore. the L9th March 1962. 

N. G. CllAUDHURl 
Sub-Judge 

VSu 1 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUBORDINATE JUDGE A 
ASANSOL 

Insolvency Case No. 7 of 1962 

Petitioner: Masudan Mondal, son oi Gorelal Mondal, T. 
T/405 Indian Wagon Company Ltd., Burnpur, 
oi Dhurupdanga, Burnpur, P.S. Hirapur, di^tue 
Burdwau. 

TT is hereby notified that the abovenarned petitioner 
applied to be adjudged an insolvent. Tin* Court w 
registered that application fixing 28tb April 1962 for lieaimi 
thereof . 

N. C. DUTTA, 
Subordinate Judge 
Insolvency Jurisdirt'on 


(254 — 1) 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTl, MARCH 29, 1962 


133 


>TrT HI 


the HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA 
(Civil Appellate Jurisdiction) 

MISCELLANEOUS APPEAL No. 3 OP 1901 

,„jt ot an order, dated the lOth December 1960, 
irN passed m Title Suit- No. 5 of 1958 of the court of 
Luhoi’dinuto Judge, Jamshedpur. 

I > l,.i 1 1) h lUii Trades A: Industries Limited, Appellant 
versus 

.Mohammad Kamgarh Shall ifc ors., Respondents 

,,i- VS it lias nc/t been found possible to secure the 
o| summonses issued in the abovenoted appeal in 
jj|, l)I( |inarv way in the appeal matter on 

I* i> s.ihehxadi walla Jehan Begum,. widow of the late 
IhniiaNim Reza Choudhary, residing at 18B Sved 
\ in ir All Avenue, Park Circus, Calcutta. 

j; .Mosstt. Bashir Begum Saheha, widow of the said 
Pi hum* Mohammad Bukhtvar Shall, deceased, residing 
,n No. 9 Bower Circular Road, Calcutta. 

U | Sahcbzadi Akhtiw Jehan Begum and R. 5 Saheb- 
y.adi Debra Jehan Begum, both daughters ol the said 
lb nice Mohammad Bukhtvar Shah, deceased, both 
i r iding at No 9, Lower Circular Road, Calcutta. 

K o Most. Moti Mirzft, the widow' of the lato Sultan 
Muza, 7 Jamil Mirza, 8 Sliakil Mirza — Nos. 6 to 8 
lesnlmg al No. 11, Circus Avenue, Calcutta, 9 Minor 
scKhaudar Mirza, 10 Minor Amin Mirza, 11 Minor 
Siiitar Mirza and 1 2 Minor Selim Mirza — Nos. 7 to 
l*j being son of Sulbmi Mirza since deceased, 
!, Mim/i Siddique Jeluui Begum, 11 Minor Bibpns 
Jeh.ui Begum, daughters ol the said Sultan Mirza, 
ilci All the aloresaid minor respondents Nos. 

m i * II nie under the age of 18 years and living 
undei the guardianship ol their mother Most. Moti 
Mn /.» .it'd they arc represented by their guard i a n- 
.id-litem mother Most. Moti Mirza, residing at 9, 
l.ow ci Circular Road, Calcutta, with whom the 
nii.iidi.iu has no conflicting interest. 

!'» I'ckcli.Ftid Agarwalla carrying on business under tbe 
name and style of “Dlialbhum Garb Gravel Supply 
Vgeiirx” and residing at Narsingarh, P.S. Ghatsila, 
IV i ana Dhalhlmm in the district of Singhbhum. 

I‘» l*o mn Sluwrna, s/o Balden Sharma, resident ot 3b 
i m nit House \rea, Jamshedpur, P.S. Bistupur iu 
i lie town ot Jamshedpur, district Singhbhum. 

b b.iKshini Naiayan Panda, s/o Krishna Chandra 

Pandev, employee ol the said Sahobzada Md. 

Kamgaih Shah, residing at Ghatsila, Pargana l)hal- 
hliijin, district Singhbhum 

|s < ha'mu La? Sagrwrnal, father’s name not known, 

1 out r actor. National High Way, Chakradharpur, 

' i i lift Singhhlunii, now working and residing at 
td.ats la. PS. Ghatsila, c/o P.YV.T)., S.D.O., 

bh.M m la . 

Ram Chandri Prasad, father’s name not 
• now n , contractor, National High Way, Seraikchi, 
, , ls,n <i Smglihhuiii, now working and residing at 
J; halsila, P.S. Ghatsila, c/o P.W.D., S.D.O. 

(diatsila. 

Jhj ila 1 Agarwalla, Railway contractor, father’s name 
M known, Jugselai P.S. in the district of 
mglihhum. 

^ Jhirhdiiai Agarwalla, lather’s name not known, 
win way contractor, Galudih, P.S. Ghatsila, district 
'^Khhhum. 


*24 Shivji Naran Lai Jndav, father’s name not known, 
bv c.irite Hindu, contractor, Guladih, P.S. Ghatsila, 
district Singhbhum. 

23 M /Vs. S. 'IV i A Co., contractors. National High 

W»y, 51 Kocl Road, Sakchi, P.S. Sakchi in the 
town ot Jamshedpur, district Singhhhum. 

2 I Bn id* math Bnncrjcc, father's nrnc not known ; con- 
1 1 actor, hv caste Hindu, t lia*kr mlharpur, district 
Singhbhum. 

2"i SiJien Lai Punjabi, Railway contractor, by caste 
Hind i. Golmlih, P S Ghatsila. district Singhbhum. 

2(> .latimtra Nath Gope, father's name not known, con- 
tractor. KuraMidih, P.S. JugM»lai in the district of 
Smghblium. 

27 Dlincudia Nath Gojie, father’s name not known, 
contractor, In caste* Hindu, residing at Karandih, 
PS. Jugselai, Pargana Dhalhlmm, district 
Singhbhum. 

Narcsh ( hakraharty. lather’s name not known, con- 
Dactoi. by Caste Hindu, couttaelors Area, Bistupur 
in I lie town ol Jamshedpur, PS. Bistupm, Pargana 
Dhalhhum, district Singhbhum. 

29 Lnlta Singh, father’s name not known, contractor, 
h\ C.i te Hindu, resident ol Jugselai, P.S. Jugsehw, 
Pargana Dltalhlunii, district Singlihhum. 

■19 Benox Krishna Pa lit, s/o Saehmdra Natli Paht, by 
caste Hindu, resident ot Hnliidpukur, IBS. Put-ka, 
Pa rg.Mia Dlialbhum, district. Singhhhum. 

31 M K. Bn 'Was, father's name not known, contractor, 
Hindu by caste, resident oi Sand June Road, Sakchi, 
P »'*'• Sakchi in the town ot Jamshedpur, district 
Singhhliuni. 

32 Jamil Muza, s/o laic* Mr Sultan Mirza, a Musitlman 
b\ laitli, of Glint 1 liila. J* S. Glmtsliihi, Pargana 
Dhalhhum m the district of Singlihhum in the State 
ol Bihar, now residing a»t No. If. Circus Avenue, 
Calcutta. 

•H Kahir llossain, s/o lati* Md. Hossain ot Sari«a 
I’aliai i P.S Chn kunda, district- DJiatihad. 

•*•*» Abdul liakint, lather’s name not known ol Gluttsila. 

JO Mauim ! In*. sain, father’s name not known, resident 
of (ihatsila, P.O. and P.S. Ghatsila, district 
Singhlilium. 

•h (topal Krishna Clmmlliary, s/o late Aswini Kumar 
Chaiidhaiy of Tamakpal, ol P.O. ami P.S. Ghatsila, 
district Singhhhum. 


38 Bhudcv Mukherjoe, s/o late Nirmal Mukherjee of 
village Kusidn, P.O. and P.S. Ghatsila, district 
Singhhhum 

19 B K Soiii s/o Sin i Mnlukrai Soni oi Gopalpur, 
PS. Ghatsila, district Singhhhum, respondents in 
Hie ahoM mentioned appeal, 

notice is lieieln given that the 17th Ajiril 1902 has been 
set down lot tin hearing ol the aloresaid appeal, and tba»b 
if no ap; • a r. m »* is made on hchalt oj 1 he said respondents 
on oi holme tin date lived the appeal will he heard and 
dei itled c\ p.Mle l heir absence notwithstanding. 

sealed and signed by order of the Court this tho 
day ol March, 1902. 

Bv order of the High Court, 
M. YAHYA, 

Deputy Registrar. 

(263— l) 



134 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. MARClf 29, 1962 


li'Atn | 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
(IN INSOLVENCY) 

NO. 6 Of 1958 

Re.: lit 1 1 1 a 1 Mott* also known as Brijlal Aganvalla, ex parte 
the Debtor. 

NOTICK i s hercliv given that the abovenanied debtor having 
applied lot bis discharge, the Court has fixed Tuesday, 
the 1st day of May 1962, at 12 o’clock noon at the Court 
House tor heating the application. 

Dated the 19th day of March 1962. 

M. M. CHAKRABARTTY, 
Official Assignee of Calcutta. 


DWARTKA PRASAD AGARWAL, LL.B. intends to i 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court * 


( 212 . 




AML KUMAR CIIOUDHURY, LL.B., intends to bo. 

... A 1 . t* _ i jl i _ it? __v G 


rolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High CouH. 


(21C-. 


MALAY KUMAR SAHA, LL.B., intends to bo enrolled 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(217 — , 


DHL (iOHLNDA HANKR.IKK, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate ol lhe Calcutta High Court 

(197 1) 


SUBHXSH KUMAR BANDYOPADHYAY, LL.B., inten 
to la* enrol led as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Com 

(218-. 


COLOR N \T1I DAN, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(198—4) 


\ N A N (I A NATH CHAKRABART1, LL.B., intends to 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(219- 


(iOPAL CHANDRA DAS, LL.B., intends to be enrol loci as 
an Advocate of tlic Calcutta High Court. 

(199—1) 


XML KUMAR SARKAR, LL.B., intends to he enroll 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 220 - 


BIN W KUMAR R WDYOPADHYAY, LL.B , intends to 

he eiii oiled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(200—4) 


SURAL CHANDRA DAS, LL.B., intends to he enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(201—4) 


KAZ1 All \JMKD ALL LL.B., intends to he enrolled as an 
Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(202—4) 


RAMABATAK UJARWALA. LL.B.. intends to be 
enrolled* as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(204—4) 


PLI USH KANT! DHAR, LL.B., intends to ho enrolled 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(221 


SUNIL KUMAR BHADRA, LL.B., intends to be enroll 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 222 - 


SlIRKK PIIANINDRA NATH SPIN intends to he enroll 
as an Advocate in the High Court at Calcutta. 

(2211 


DHARM RA.7 SINGH, LL.B.. intends to be enrolled 
an Advocate o! the Calcutta High Court. 

(2:u - 


SIIHI (’IIAHAN BANAL. LL.B , intern!* to <‘i |r ‘’ 11 
as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 


SHR1 A RUN KUMAR DUTTA, LL.B., intends to fr' 
enrolled a* an Advocate' ol the High Court at Calcutta. 

(204—4) 


SATIN OKA NATH BISWAS, LL.B., intends to bo enroll 
as an Advocate oi the Calcutta High Court. (G 4 (g- 


SHRi D N. CHAKLADAR intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


B ANA TIT KIMAB MANDAT., LL.B, intends to 
enrolled ns an Advocate of the Calcutta High Conn. 


( 247 - 


(207 — i) 



THE CALC UTT A i G AZETTfe, MARCH 29, J962 


135 


|T IX] 


,»r ph ASAD CHAUDHUR1, M.Com., LL.B., intends .o 
luolh’d :ts an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


( 248 — 4 ) 


AID. ALLA BUKHSH, LL.B.. intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta tiign Court. 

( 275 — 4 ) 


\ \i \'l I J ■V NATH LAND IT, M.A.. LL.B.. intends to he 
)i«d cs an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(249 — 4) 


DUBABBATA MAITRA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate ot the C alcutta High Court. 

( 276 - 4 ) 


A HTCHANDRA MA.IDMDAIL LL.B.. int**nds in be 
’, LS all Advocate of the Calcutta Higli Court. 

(250 — 4) 


u \iL KUMAR DAS CHAIJDHURI, LL.B.. intends 
V, ('urollcd as nu Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(2G1 — 4) 


M,:i 

.hi 


kikanmay 

\d\ocatc oi 


G1IOSL1, LL.B., intends to he enrolled 
the Calcutta High Court. 

(262—4) 


* ■» I II1N f)HA KUMAR SARKAlt, LL.B., intends to be 
np , nu Advocate of tho Calcutta High Court. 

(267—4) 


list THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 1956 
AND IN THE MATTER OF 
MESSRS. DURGA STEEL PRODUCT8 (P) LTD. 

(in Creditors voluntary winding up) 

NO TICK is hereby given m pursuance of section 509 that 
a geueuJ meeting oi the members and a meeting of the 
< ledituis el the abovenumed Company will bo held at 20 
British Indian Stmit, Calcuttivl, in tho office of Messrs. 
Nilarpima, .lajodia & Co., Chartered Accountants, on 
Tuesihn, Hie 2 itli April 1962 at 6 p.m. and 4 p.m. respec- 
tiveis lor the purposes of having an account laid belore 
them, showing the nuMiuor in which the winding up has 
been conducted and tin* property oi tho Company has been 
disposed ol and ol hearing any explanation that may be 
gnui l<v the liqr.'dah/r and also ol determining by a special 
icm.I it mn ol the Company, the miMiuer in which the books, 
accounts and documents ol the Company and of the liquida- 
tor shall he disposed of. 

I’D British Indian Street, Calcutta-1. 

Dated loth March 1962 

R. P. SALARPURI A, 
Liquidator. 

(259 -1) 


v |i| ell \ND MOHTA. LL.B., intends to tie enroll- 
\d\ a-ate ( | the Calcutta High Court. 

4,1 / r»/»r» a \ 


; i \i \T1 S A D 1 1 A N A SARICAR, LL.B., intends to he 
,{ .is an Ad \ oca to ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(269—4) 


VUIAVJAN HA HI GHOSH, LL.B., intends to he 
>il,‘(i as .m Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(270—4) 


1! KAMA R MUKIIOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends to- he 
file., : - all Advocate, of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 271 - 4 ) 


<>li l'ROKASH SADHUKHAN, M.A., LL.B., intends 
1,1 enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 272 — 4 ) 


1HSWAS. LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
of the Calcutta High Court. 

(278—4) 


' ll!l SHANKAR BEHANI, LL.B., intends to be enroll- 
:ui Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(274—4) 


NOTICE OF APPOINTMENT OF LIQUIDATOR 
Creditors' Voluntary Winding up 

Name. Colliery Contractors Private Ltd. 

Nature of business: To carry on the Trade or business 
of Colliery Proprietors and Coke Manufacturer by 
acquiring mines, mine rights, etc., and take raising, 
j omitting or other contracts and run and manage 
the business. 

Address oi Registered Office: 8 Lyons Range, 

Calcutta-1 . 

Name and address of Liquidator: N. N. Das, F.O.A., 
8/ 2 I Iasi mgs Street, Calcutta-1. 

1 bite of appointment: 12th March 1962. 

B.\ whom appointed: By Creditors of the Company. 

( 200 — 1 ) 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, 1958 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF 

BARHAJ NATIONAL METAL AND IRON INDUSTRIES 
PRIVATE LTD. 

(IN VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION) 

Notice of Creditors' Meeting given under section 500 

XOTICK is hereby given pursuant to soction 500 of the 
Companies Act, 1956, that a Meeting of the Creditors of 
the abo'venamed Company will he held at the registered 
office at T92 G. T. Road (North), Salkia, Howrah, on 29th 
day o) .March 1962 at 8 o’clock in tho afternoon. 

GUL \B OH AND JAISWAL. 

Director, 

Barliaj National Metal & Iron Industries Private Ltd. 
Howrah, the 2nd March 1962. 

( 278 — 1 ) 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MARCH 29, 1962 



IN THE MATTER OF CENTRAL HOTEL (PRIVATE) 
LIMITED (IN VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION) 


H INDU8TH AN NATIONAL CORPORATION Ltd, 
Notioe under section S00 of the Companies Act, 1954 


NOTICE is hereby given in pursuance oi section 497(2) of 
the Companies Act, 1956, thLt General Meet.ng of the 
members r/f tlm abovonamod Company will be held at 82B 
Kansan I’ara Road, Calcutta, on lhurs V, p 

of May 1962, at 11 o’clock in the forenoon for the purpose 
Of laving » m account lard before them, showing the 
manner nr which the winding up has been conduct^, and 
tin, nronortv of the Company disposed of and ot nearing 
any explanation that may be given by tho Liquidator and 
„Ko of determining by extraordinary resolution * l| e ni»nnei 
which the hooks, accounts, and documents ol the Com- 
i,aii.\ and of tin* Liquidator therec/l, shall be disposed of. 


Dated the iMtli day of xMarcb 1962. 


notice: is hereby given that a meeting of tho Croditoi 
ot the above Company will be held cm Slet day of M arc 
1!K)2 ai I o’clock in the afternooii at the registered 
of the Company at No. 13 Armenian Street, Calcutta 
lor the pm pose of considering and if deemed fit, passii 
tlic umlernoted resolution with or without modification: 

“Resolved that the Company be wound up voluntari 
in mow of the fact that the Company is not in a posits 
to meet ite liabilities and that H. C. Jain of (52 N a i, 
Sett Road, Calcutta-?, be and is hereby appointed Liqi 
dator for tlie purpose of such wiuding up. 

, H. L, SOR \()( 

DIRECTOR. 

1 \iincnian Street, 


R. N. GANGULI, Calemta, 5th March 1962. 

Liquidator, 

Central Hotel (Private) Limited. 


( 265 - 


(279—D 


| PURSUANT TO SUCTION 485(2)1 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT 
AND 

MAROKHANA INDUSTRIES LIMITED 
(In voluntary Liquidation) 


jt Y ;; Special Resolution passed on the 24th day of March 
1962, the abovenumod Oomjiany wae put into J J en l b ® rs , 
Voluntary Liquidation and Shri P. N. Mukonea of 11 Old 
I'.mt Office Street, Calcutta-1, was appointed Liquidator on 
a fixed remuneration of Rs. 300 only. 


The 24tb March 1962. 


G. B. SANTRA, Director. 


| PURSUANT TO SECTION 516(1)] 

NOTICE is given that 1, P. N. Mukerjca of 11 Old Pcyst 
Office Street, Calcutta, have been appointed Liquidator at 
the Extraordinary Meeting of the Company held on the 
24i h day of Mari-li 1962, and 1 hereby give notice to tho 
Crcdiiors that I have fixed the 2,5th day of April 1962, on 
or bcloie which da-te their debts and/or claims are to bo 
proved, otherwiso they will bo excluded from tho benefit ot 
distributions made. 


T he 2 J th March 1962. 

For and on behalf of 
Marokhana Industries Limited 
(In Voluntary Liquidation) 

P. N. MUKERJEA, 
Liquidator. 

(264-1) 


NOTICE 

NOTICE is hereby given that meetings of the members a 
credit of s of Bilas Singh & Co. (Private) Ltd. will be h 
on 29tli March 1962 at 2 and 3 p.m., respectively, at 
Old Post Office Street, Calcutta, to pass the follow] 
resolution as special resolution: 

“As if lias become impossible to continue the busin 
oi the Company due to heavy liabilities a<nd want of wo 
it is resolved that tho Company bo wound up”. 


Dated Calcutta, tho 1st March 1962. 

By order of the Bos 
BILAS SINRII. 
Managing Director. 

( 266 - 


THE COMPANIES ACT, 1956 

CREDITORS VOLUNTARY WINDING UP 

Notice of Appointment of Liquidator pursuant to section 

Name of Company: Calcutta Potteries Ltd 
liquidation). 

Nai lire of business: Financing Potteries. 

Address of Registered Office: 8 Lyons Range, Calm 

Name and address of Liquidator: Shi i P. R. Star 
S Lyons Range, Calcutta. 

Date of appointment: Cth January 1962. 

By whom appointed: Members and Creditors. 

Dated Die 28th January 1962. 

P. R. SIIARMA, 
Liquidator, 

Calcutta Potteries Ltd. (in liquid 

( 277 - 


Registered No. C207 



No. 14 of 1962 


dalmtta 





(Bazrttr 


CAITRA 15 1 


THURSDAY APRIL 3, 10,2 


| KARA 1884 



CONTENTS: 

Page. 




State Statistical Bureau — Cost of living index©*, 
Calcutta, and wholesale price iudex 

for the weeks ending the 17th and 24th 
March 1962 

89—90 




Wholesale Market Prices of Agricultural 
and Animal Husbandry Products (average 
q uu lit.' ) in Calcutta during the month of 
November 1902 

91— 100 




Calcutta Improvement Trust — N otioes 

101 



SU PPLEMEN T — Official Papers 

Issue Ncs 300 and 301 STATE STATISTICAL BUREAU, WEST BENGAL 

TABLE I 

Colt ot living indexes, Calcutta and wholesale price index (week ending 17th and 24th March 1982) 

Ali-Jndia wholesale 

Coat uf living index — Base : November, 1950. price index*. 


l'«inod. 

t — 

Expenditure level 

. . • -A— 

(in Its.) 


— — 

r~ 

Base. 

1952-53. 



Converted 

With 

November 
l96u as 
base. 


1--100 101—200 


2hl — 

a 

-850 


f All Food! 'All Food, 

item.,. items. 

An 

items. 

hood. 


a) 

(2) (3) (4) 

(6) 

(«) 

<1) 

(») 

(») 

954 January 

93-9 8b*8 94-1 

88*4 

94*7 

88*0 


. . 

April 

95*2 90*4 95*6 

90-1 

95*:i 

9<»* 1 

. . 


July 

04 "0 89*4 94*4 

89*5 

94* 7 

89*6 

. . 


Oo tolier 

95*3 91*0 95*3 

91*4 

95*5 

9i *3 




i'idf* January 

. 

*0*7 

84*7 

91*1 

84*4 

91*7 

84*5 

• • 

. . 

April 


89*9 

83*0 

9o*5 

83*7 

91*2 

84*0 

88*9 

82*3 

July 

. . 

91*1 

85*6 

9 1 • 6 

85*8 

92-0 

86*8 

92*9 

80*0 

October 


93*7 

89*7 

93*9 

89*i 

94*0 

88*0 

90*0 

83*0 


W56 January 

90*9 

84*8 

91*0 

84* J 

91*2 

83*7 

95*3 

88«* 

April 

95*2 

91*6 

94*8 

90*4 

04*6 

89*6 

100*0 

92 -0 

July 

90*6 

98*0 

9* *7 

96*3 

97*8 

94*7 

108*5 

93 

October 

102*4 

101*3 

T00*7 

98*0 

99*4 

96*9 

106*7 

98-* 


•Revived series (Base : 1962*68) and the no responding converted nwm 



90 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 5, 1962 


Period. 


( 1 ) 

1967 January 
April 
July 

October 


Cost of living index — Baee : November, I960. 


Expenditure level (in Km.) 


1 - 100 


All 

items. 


( 2 ) 


08 *4 

I'Kl-fi 
10# 0 
107-r, 


Food. 


( 3 ) 


94 • fi 
08 0 
106 8 
ic7-0 


]0J — 200 


All 

items. 


w 


08*9 
1 04 ♦ 1 
i05- 1 


Fch>c1. 


( 5 ) 


91-0 
05 -5 

103 0 

104 0 


201 — 860 


Ail 

iu*mh. 


(«) 

90 2 
97 0 
102*7 
1 04 0 


Food. 


(?) 

90-3 

93*6 

100*7 

102*3 


All-India wbuleflate 
price index*. 

_ . . 


Base, 

1952-63. 


Converted 

with 

November 
1950 M 
base. 


( 8 ) 

107 *3 
106 ’6 
111*9 

108 l* 


(») 

99 

98 •« 
103 •»> 

100 8 


1968 January 
April 
July 
October 


k .6 *0 

106 0 
109 *4 

113-3 


101 *S 
103 1 
107 6 

114-3 


103-1 
104 -1 
107 -0 
11 ! *2 


98 1 
100 2 
104 9 

113-3 


101 -8 
103 2 
106 7 

109-3 


95 4 
9< *9 
102 -6 

1< 8 6 


lt/6 -o 
107 -4 

114-7 

116-2 


98 -2 

99 *5 
106 2 
107 t 


1969 January 

April 

July 

October 


103 *5 
106 -8 
110 4 
114 6 


97 2 
i< 0 9 
108 3 
1 16 0 


102 9 

105 1 
109 2 

113-0 


96 5 
99-4 

106-1 
113 -4 


102 -7 
104 6 
108 -1 
111 0 


94*0 
38 -2 
104 -0 
111 -0 


112 3 
ill -9 
116-8 
119-3 


iiM 0 
103 •« 
10 * 2 
Ui-6 


1960 January 
April 
July 

October 


110-4 

no -f> 

114 4 
114 4 


jOS 3 
10H U 
113-9 
J13-6 


108-6 

108-9 
112 8 
113 2 


105 3 

106 2 
111 -6 
111 8 


107 6 
107 -9 
111*5 
112 2 


103 2 
103 3 
109-6 
110 4 


118 8 
120 6 
124 -7 
126 3 


1 10 -tt 

111-6 

115-5 
117 0 


1961 January 
February 
March 

April 

May 

June 

July 

August 

September 

October 

Novomber 

December 


I 09 -7 
110 *6 
no -9 

112-2 

112-1 

113-7 

116*2 

117- 9 

118- 0 

119-9 
120 3 
117*0 


105 - 0 

106 -I 

106- 1 

108-2 

107-8 

110-1 

114-1 
116-8 
116-4 
119-7 
12) *4 

114-5 


108- 7 

109- 5 
1U9 -9 

111- 4 
111*4 

112- 7 
116- 1 
ne e 
116-6 
118-2 
118 4 

115-3 


103 -2 

104 -3 
104 -6 

107-2 
107-0 
109-1 

113-2 

115-7 

115-2 
119-2 
118-4 
112-6 


108-4 
109 -0 
109 -6 

111-0 

111-0 

112-1 

114- 2 

115- 6 

115- 4 

116- 9 
116*9 
114-1 


102 3 

103 3 
lo3 9 
106-6 
106-6 
108-4 
112-2 
114 5 
113-8 

116-7 

116-6 
111-1 


125- 6 

126- 7 
127 6 
126-8 

126- 3 
126*9 
12S-7 

127- 4 
124-6 
124-4 
124 3 
122-9 


116- 3 

117- 3 

118- 1 
116 5 
116 0 
116-6 
119-2 
118-t 
115*4 
115-1 
116 1 
113*1 


1962 January 


114-4 


110-1 


112-8 


108-8 


112-1 


107-0 


123 - 


1 J 4 * J 


W eek ending 

17*2*62 

24*2*62 

3-3*62 

10-3*62 

17-3*62 

24-3*62 


114-7 

114*1 

114*3 

115*0 

116*0 

116*8 


110-8 

113-1 

108-3 

112-4 

109-4 

112-5 

107-4 

111-9 

109-8 

112-8 

107-8 

112-1 

111-1 

113-5 

109-2 

112-8 

112-0 

114-5 

110-8 

113-7 

112-2 

114-3 

110-4 

113-4 


107*2 

106*4 

106*6 

108*2 

109*8 

109*2 


'Keviaed series (Beset 1962-53) eud the oonespoDdiug oonverted aeries. 



SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 5, 1962 


91 


# holesal# prices of agricultural and animal husbandry products (average quality) in Calcutta 

during November 1961. 






Dates. 




Average 

Average 

Commodity. 

Unit. 






Monthly 

of 

of 






average. 

October, 

November. 



3rd 

10 th 

17th 

24th 


1961. 

1960. 

_____ 


Ba. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Cr.aU 









Per Md % 

<* (Fine) Bhnsemnnik .. 

75 Kg. 

46*80 

46-80 

46-80 

46*80 

— 

46-80 

23*81 

24*50 

„» (Kin.) Bupaal 

»» 

50*25 

50-25 

50 25 

50*25 

— 

50*25 

26 *60 

26*25 

ice (Medium) Napra 

M 

46 75 

45 76 

45 75 

45 75 

— 

45 76 

23 *25 

22*50 

ic e (Medium) Kabna 

99 

46*23 

46-23 

46 -23 

46*23 

— 

46*23 

23 *50 

24-00 

Jce (Coarse) West Bengal 

M 

42*76 

42-76 

42*75 

42*75 

— 

42 -76 

21 *60 

20 00 

liw (Coarse) Orissa 

99 

41-26 

41-25 

4* -25 

41-25 

— * 

41*25 

20 50 

19*81 



6th 

13 th 

20th 

27th 

— 




fteet (East Punjab) 

Quintal 

61-62 

61 -62 

58-94 

61 -62 

— 

69*61 

57 -06 

— 

(Vhest (Govt. Stock) 

99 

37*62 

37 52 

37*52 

37*52 

— 

37*52 

37*61 

37 61 

ttft 


41 *53 

41 -53 

41 -63 

46-90 

— 

42-89 

41 63 

15 50 










Quintal 

tta (Agmark) 

• • 

41 -53 

41 53 

41 -53 

41 53 

— 

41 53 

41 -53 

41 *33 
Quintal 

Bta (Fair Price Shop) . . 

»* 

40 19 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

— 

40 19 

40*19 

40*19 

Quintal 

fluids (Fair Price Shop) . . 

9i 

66*75 

65 -75 

55 -76 

55-75 

— 

56 75 

66-75 

65*76 

iji 

II 

60-28 

60-28 

N.S. 

N.S. 

— 

60 -28 

60 -28 

22 50 

ign f Cochin) (Tapioca 

M 

65*00 

65-00 

65-00 

65-00 

— 

65-00 

65*00 

26*25 

globules) 


3rd 

10 th 

17th 

24th 

— 




wzo (Bihar) 

** 

35*51 

36*61 

37 62 

37 62 

— 

36 61 

13 75 

14*43 

jw»r(l T F.) 

.. 

36*51 

35*61 

36-85 

37 62 

— 

36-34 

13 26 

18-60 


! 

6 th 

13 th 

20th 

27th 

— 




blHOll 

•» 

42-88 

■12 -8s 

42-88 

53 60 

— 

46 81 

16 00 

17*60 

'.V 

M 

36*18 

30-18 

37 51 

37 51 

— 

36-84 

13 60 

16*81 

Puliet (Whole) 


3rd 

10th 

17 th 

24th 

— 



Per Md. 

; (Ordinary) U. P. 

(Quintal 

48-24 

18-24 

49 -58 

sn 

00 

— 

48 67 

18 00 

19-75 

r (Big) Bhupal 

99 

46*90 

46-90 

53*60 

60-92 

— 

49*58 

17*25 

18-12 

T (Small) West Bengal 

99 

40*19 

10*19 

45*66 

42*88 

— 

42*19 

16 12 

15*75 

r (Big) (Khari) Bhupal 

9. 

58 -94 

58 -94 

64-32 

61 -64 

— 

60 96 

21 -87 

21*50 

(Small) (Khari) West 
ngal 

(Big) (Black) M. P. .. 

99 

50*92 

60* 92 

56*28 

66*28 

— 

53*35 

19*00 

20*25 

99 

60 -28 

60 -28 

60 -28 

58 -94 

— 

59 95 

21 50 

19*50 

(Small) (Black) West 
iQgftl 

n (Big) East Punjab . . 

99 

66 2s 

56-28 

57-62 

56-28 

— 

56-96 

19-62 

17*25 

•ft 

45 56 

45-56 

46 *90 

45 56 

— 

45-89 

16 00 

18*12 

Q (Small) West Bengal 

#9 

40-19 

40*19 

41 -60 

40-19 

— 

40-54 

14 37 

15-25 

*(Big)U.p. 

99 

46 23 

46-23 

46 90 

45-56 

— 

46 23 

17 00 

17*75 


•Controlled commodity. The prices of coptr° n ^ commodities represent the re tee et which licensed retailer# get their supplies 
0 Comment. 










92 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 5, 1962 


WholMala priew 


Nov«mb« in 


Commodity. 


DUm. 

Monthly 

Average 

of 

at 

Unit. 

3rd 

10th 

17th 

24th 

— 

average. 

October, ] 
1961. 

oi 

fovsmt, 

I960. 



Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

R«. a] 

PultM (Wholal— eoncld. 









PerM 

Matar (Gata) . . 

Quintal 

41-88 

42-88 

44 22 

42-88 

— 

43 88 

16-12 

16- 

Afhar (Big) U. P. 

M 

44 22 

44-22 

46-66 

44-22 

— 

44-77 

16 37 

16 

Arbor (Small) West Bengal 

M 

38 86 

88-86 

41 60 

40 19 

— 

39-87 

14 87 

16- 

KhM&ri (Big) M. P. 

M 

MM 

34 84 

38-86 

36-18 

— 

36-17 

12-26 

U: 

Khesari (Small) West Bengal 

M 

38-82 

80 *2 

33-60 

32-16 

— 

SI -87 

10 -6S 

10- ; 

Kulti (Horse Gram) 

M 

37 §2 

37 62 

37-52 

37-52 

— 

37 -62 

14-00 

13 : 

Chora (Barbati) 

M 

160*80 

160 80 

160 80 

134 00 

— 

164-10 

66-26 

33' 

Dal (Spilt Puliw) 










Mung (Ordinary) U. P. 

Quintal 

69 -68 

69 68 

69-68 

67 -00 

— 

69-01 

26*S7 

26 

Masur (Big) Bhupal 

ii 

62 20 

62-26 

66-28 

64 94 

— 

63 92 

19-76 

18- 

Masur (Small) West Bengal 


48 24 

48 24 

60 92 

60-92 

— 

49-60 

18 25 

8 • 

Urid (Big Black) M. P. . . 


75 02 

76 02 

79-04 

77 70 

— 

76 -i 9 

26-60 

i! 

Urid (Small Black) West 
Bengal 

Urid (Big) (White) M. P. . . 

»» 

72 36 

i: 3« 

72-36 

69 68 

- 

71 69 

25 25 

22 

• » 

72 36 

72 36 

76 -34 

76 02 

— 

74 02 

20 50 

2fi 

Urid (Small (Whito) 11. P. 

M 

69 68 

69-68 

N.S. 

N.B. 

— 

69 08 

24-25 

22 

Gram (Big) East Punjab . . 

M 

62-26 

62 26 

52-26 

60 92 

— 

61 92 

19-25 

20- 

Matar (Big) U. P. 

M 

49-68 

49 58 

49-68 

48-24 

— 

49 24 

18 00 ! 

18 

Matar (Gata) 

91 

68-04 

6s- 94* 

68-94 

68-94 

— 

68 -94 

22 12 

- 

Arbar (Big) U. P. 

M 

69 -98 

62 98 

64-32 

61 64 

— 

64 34 

23-50 

21- 

Arhar (Small) West Bengal 

ft 

64 94 

64-94 

56-28 

64-94 

— 

55 27 

20-62 

20 

Khesari (Big) M. P. 

f • 

42-88 

42 88 

44 -22 

42-88 

— 

43 21 

16 37 

14 

Kheeari (Small) West Bengal 

ft 

40 19 

40 19 

41 60 

40-19 

— 

40 54 

13 60 

13 

8picoi 








Ter Md. 


Onion (Bombay) 

10 Kg. 

4 44 

4-44 

4*82 

4-82 

— 

4 63 

19-50 

10- 

Onion (Bihar) 

M 

3 62 

3 62 

4-02 

4-29 

— 

3-88 

18-50 

8' 

Onion (Tripuri) 

99 

4-29 

4-29 

4-29 

4-70 

— 

4-39 

16-87 

N.i 

Garlic 

40 Kg. 

33 00 

33-00 

36 00 

32 -00 

— 

33 5o 

33 -60 

20 

Ginger (Green) 

M 

26 00 

26 00 

19-30 

21-44 

— 

28-18 

30-26 

od 

Ginger (Dry) 

Quintal 

214*40 

208 04 

208 -04 

208-04 

— 

209 63 

87 -60 

72 

Tamarind (with eeed) 

ii 

42-88 

42-88 

48-24 

42-88 

— 

44-22 

16-00 

23 

Turmeric (Erode) 

60 Kg. 

73 70 

77 -72 

77-72 

77 -72 

— 

76 -71 

72 36 

47' 

Turmeric (Madras) 


61 64 

60-30 

60-30 

60*33 

— 

60-62 

61-64 

38 

Chillies (Bihar) 

H 

127-30 

127-30 

127-30 

127-30 

— 

127-30 

95-00 

88' 

Chillies (Tutioorin) 

*» 

100-60 

100-60 

113*90 

113-90 

— 

107 -20 

75-00 

93 

Black Pepper 

1 Quintal 

442 -20 

428-80 

428-80 

428-80 

— 

432-15 

165-00 
Per 50 Kg. 

207 

4« 

Aniseed (Mouri) (Cleaned) 

50 Kg. 

60-00 

60-00 

ea*oo 

60*00 

~ 

60*00 

60-00 


N. S.^No supply. 










SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 5, 1962 


93 


jftaUMtopHwt November 1M1 


* — 




Dates. 




Average 

Average 

Commodity. 

Unit. 






Monthly 

of 

ol 

3rd 





average. 

September 

November, 



10t.h 

17 th 

24th 

- 


1961. 

1990. 



Re. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

K*. nl\ 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Spice* — conoid. 










ipeed (Mouri) fUnoleaned) 

50 Kg 

35 00 

35 00 

36 00 

35 00 

— 

35 00 

36 00 

32 76 

lelnut (Aleppi) 

M 

348*40 

348 40 

348 40 

348 40 

— 

348*40 

348-40 

212-60 

t*lnut (Penang) (8plit) 

Medium 

M 

348 40 

348 40 

348 40 

348*40 

348-40 


348 40 

341 70 

210 SO 

telnut (Smgapofe)Medium 

- 

348-40 

348-40 

348*40 

— 

34840 

341-70 

215-00 

telnut (Sundned sliced) 

• * 

208 00 

273 36 

273 38 

273 36 

— 

272*02 

268-00 

172-69 

tha (Cule) 

t» 

227-80 

227- 80 

227-80 

227-80 


227*80 

170-00 

160-00 

tha (Singapore) 

M 

686-00 

539 00 

536 00 

536-00 

— 

536 00 

400 00 

N.S. 

tha (Janakpur) (Black) 

ft 

482-40 

482 -4n 

482-40 

482-40 

— 

482*40 

860 oo 

350 00 

rriander (Dhania,) 

»» 

SO- 00 

53-50 

63-60 

53 50 



62-62 

55 00 

60-00 

Cleaned). 

-dander (Dhania) 

Uncleaned). 

ft 

32*00 

2S- 89 

28-89 

28-89 


81-22 

32-00 

35 00 

mamon (Darohini) 

1 Kg. 

28 89 

28- 89 

28-89 

28-89 


28-89 

29-84 

N.S. 

ve« (Zanzibar) 

•• 

32-10 

32-10 

32-10 

32*10 


32-10 

33-97 

780-00 

vim (Big) 

60 Kg. 

40-00 

42 . 80 

42-80 

48 80 

» 

42*10 

44 00 

30-00 

van (Sy iball) 

» 

30- 00 

26-75 

26-75 

26-75 

- 

29-18 

30-00 

22 00 

nmmseed (Zeora) (Cleaned) 

M 

122-00 

117-70 

117-70 

117 70 

— 

120-92 

122 00 

90-00 

mminfieen (Zeera) (Un- 
leaned). 

»» 

87*00 

86*60 

85-60 

85-60 


36-65 

87 00 

70 00 

tok Cummin (Kala Zeera) 

thisoed . . 

»» 

63*00 , 

63 00 

63*00 

63-00 

— 

63*00 

93-00 

48-60 
Por Md. 

M 

48*00 

42*80 

42 • 80 

42-80 


44*10 

48-00 

3-1*00 

mlmlan (West Bengal) 

Quintal 

13-40 

13*40 

13*40 

13-40 


13-40 

6- 00 

5 00 

damom (Elachi) (Large) 
^alimpong. 

damom (Elachi) (Small) 
fyeoro. 

»• 

203*68 


211*72 

227*80 

- 

211 60 

203-68 

92 26 

I Kg. 

20 *33 

20 33 

20-33 

20-33 

— 

20 33 

20-27 

21-25 

Potato and Vegetables 









Per *Sear 

ato (Simla) 

10 Kg. 

N.S, 

N.S. 

N,S. 

6 -43 

-- 

6 43 

N.S. 

N.H, 

ato (IT. P. (Bound) 

M 

6-89 

6*15 

5-89 

6*62 

— 

5*88 

6-50 

N.S. 

* to (U, p, Nainital) .. 

M 

7*24 

8-04 

8-04 

6*70 

- 

7-60 

N.S, 

16-25 

ato (Madras) 

M 

7*50 

7*24 

6*97 

6*43 


7*03 

7-70 

16-37 

*t Potato 

Quintal 

16-00 

21 • 41 


21*44 


21-17 

8-25 

6*26 

Pumpkin , B 

M 

36-00 

40 20 

48-24 

32-16 

*— 

38-90 

11-26 

7-00 

“toy Beans 

M 

N,8- 

N.S, 

KS, 

64*30 


64-30 

N,S, 

26 -00 

( Bound) 

»• 

63 -60 

53 -60 

42-88 

40-20 

— 

47*57 

18 00 

10* 00 

AjalfLong) 

I* 

60-00 

42 *88 

32-16 

32-16 


39*30 

16-00 

7-50 

‘"fgourd (Uchhe) 

Md. 

76*00 

80-38 

42-88 

67-00 

— 

66-31 

N.S. 

24*66 

^ourd (Kerala) 

M 

80*00 

85*76 

48-24 

75-02 


72-25 

27-00 

N.S. 

'** Pumpkin . . 

M 

13*00 

■ED 

■D 

21-44 


19-33 

6-00 

5-00 

*kgourt| 

M 

26*00 

18-76 

18*76 

16-08 

*- 

19-90 

11-00 

7*66 

VI 

_ " 

•e 

! 

93*00 

90*40 

80-38 

134-00 j 


99-44 

34-26 

22-00 




















17 th | 24th 


Potato and Vogotablto 

— condd. 


B». nP. Rb. nP. Ko. nP. R«. nP. R»- “ p - *»• nP - "** **' ^ 


Quintal 


Radish (Deahi) * • 100 

Cucumber • • ” 

Green Plantain • • •* 

Barbati • • 

Papaya (Green) • • >* 

Green Chillos (Bihar) 

Cobbage (Local) • • ** 

Cabbage (Darjeeling) • • Quintal 

Cabbage (Madras) 

Cauliflower (Bihar; • * 100 

peas (Darjeeling) •• Quintal' 

Peas (U. Jfc\) • • 

French Boans ( Darjeeling) 

French Beans (Bihar) • • »» 

Tomato (Bihar) • • *» 

Tomato (U, P.) 

Tomato (Madras) • • ” 

Tomato (NasiU) 

Carrot (Madras) • • ” 

Carrot (Nasi k) 

Carrot (Darjeeling) 

Squash (Darjeehng) 

Beetroot (Madras) • ■ *» 

Beetroot (C, P,) ** ’* 

Turnip (L* P») 

Turnip (Bihnr) 

Fruits (Frssh) 

Banana ^’abn) 100 

Banana (Singapore) (Medium) » 

Banana (Champa) (Medium) „ 

Orange (Nagpur) 

Orange (Madras) • * " 

Orange (Darjeeling) 

Mozambique (Sweet Lime) » 

Pomelo • • * * 99 


147*40 


No 8,»No supply. 




05 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 5, 1962 


pri«M NovMnbar 1M1 




Commodity. 

Unit. 

Da toe. 

Monthly 

average. 

Average 

of 

Average 

of 

3rd 

10th 

17th 

24th 

— 

October, 

1961. 

November 

1960. 

** 


Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Re. nP. 

w (Frith) — ooneld. 

pple (Kow) 

100 

85 00 

85*00 

85.00 

85*00 

_ 

86.00 

110.25 

78. 75 

^Kashmir) 

Md. 

180 00 

130-00 

130*00 

120*00 

__ 

180-00 

122*50 

107-50 

, (Simla) 

M 

120*00 

120 00 

130 00 

130-00 

— 

125 00 

135*00 

N.S, 


H 

60 00 

60*00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

— 

60*00 

60-00 

36-00 

08 

»• 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14*00 

— 

14*00 

10*50 

N.S. 

(Sour) • • 

100 

400 

4*00 

4*00 

4*00 

— 

4 00 

4*37 

5*00 

^ ( Kip®) 

Md. 

40 00 

40*00 

40 00 

40*00 

— 

40*00 

40*00 

43*75 

0 (Afganisthao) 

»* 

350*00 

850*00 

360-00 

360-00 

— 

350*00 

302*50 

125*00 

gnuiat-e (Bedaha) .. 

»> 

N.S. 

N.S. 

NJ3. 

400*00 

— 

400-00 

N.S. 

83 *75 

nut (Green) 

100 

22*00 

22-00 

22-00 

22-00 

— 

22*00 

22*00 

20-00 

Fruits (Dry) 


8th 

14th 

21st 

28 th 

— 



PepMd 

odd (In nliell Ohaman 

50 Kg 

435 00 

436-00 

435*00 

442-20 


437*05 

326 00 

268-00 

nJli (in shell Chaman 

t 9 

301 80 

361*80 

361*80 

375*20 


366 15 

270-00 

204-00 

. -)- 

nd* (without shell) 

in). 

•• 

750 80 

750*80 

750*80 

777 00 

- 

767 5U 

584-00 

371-00 



3rd 

10th 

17 th 

24th 

— 




inut (with shell) ( Iton- 
) (Medium) 

100 

30*00 

36 00 

30*00 

36*00 

*~ 

36 00 

34*50 

25*00 

i (Tiptur) 

GO Kg 

144*72 

150*08 

160 00 

144*70 

— 

147 *39 

108 *00 

90*00 

i (Andaman) 

• 

— 

09*08 

72*30 

72 *30 

— 

71*40 

52*00 

50*00 



8th 

14th 

21st 

28th 

— 




iiiut (Decorticated) 

»» 

50*28 

50 28 

56*28 

66*28 

— 

50*28 

© 

o 

41*60 

a (Peshawar) 

tt 

254*60 

254*00 

254*60 

254*60 

— 

254*00 

190 00 

121 00 

t (in shell) 

>t 

120 00 

120*00 

120*00 

120*60 

— 

120*00 

90-00 

80*00 

t (Kernel) 

ft 

241 20 

241*20 

241*20 

241*20 

— 

241 20 

184-00 

102*00 

v (Kernel) 

tt 

274 00 

274*00 

274*00 

274*60 

— 

274*60 

205-00 

215*00 

it 

tt 

241-20 

241*20 

241*20 

241*20 

— 

241*20 

180*00 

154*00 

hio(P6Hta) 

1 Kg 

16*05 

16*05 

16*06 

16*05 

— - 

10*05 

15*30 

20*00 

(Bagdad) (Black) 

60 Kg 

07*00 

07*00 

07*00 

67*00 

— 

07*00 

48 40 

55*00 

(Basra) (Red) 

tt 

44*22 

44*22 

44*22 

46*90 

— 

44*89 

31*00 

39*00 

Ent. 


6th 

13th 

20th 

27th 





'88 (Agiuark) (Medium) 

1,000 

105*00 

183 00 

190*00 

180*00 

— 

187*00 

187*00 

102*00 

S S (Ungraded) 

tt 

180*00 

180-00 

180*00 

170*00 

— 

177 *50 

178*00 

140*00 

% (Deshi) 

>• 

150*00 

150*00 

155*00 

155*00 

— 

152*50 

145*50 

147*50 

(Madras) 

tt 

156*00 

150*00 

155*00 

155*00 

— 

154*00 

159*25 

| 152-50 


K. 8,»No npply, 










SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 5, 19fi2 


96 


MMMkr 


-\ 


Commodity. 

m 

Datee. 

Monthly 

average. 

Average 

of 

Ootober J 
1961. 

Aver* 

of 

fovetafc 

I960, 

6th 

18th 

20th 

27th 

1 

1 



Ha. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rh. o 










(Pori 

Poultry. 









lbs 

Fowl (Live weight) 

60 Kg. 

226 00 

226*00 

220-00 

220-00 

— 

222*60 

210-00 

202-i 

Ohioken (Live weight) 

>» 

260 00 

260*00 

226*00 

226*00 

— 

250*00 

250-00 

212-1 

Duck (Live weight) 

»» 

160 00 

160-00 

166*00 

166*00 

— 

167-50 

150-00 

13o-i 

Pigeon (Live weight) 

99 

300*00 

300*00 

276-00 

276*00 


287-50 

300*00 

200*i 

MmL 









PerB 

Beef (Retail Price) 

Md. 

80*00 

80*00 

70*00 

70*00 


75*00 

64 00 

60* 

Mutton (Retail Price) 

99 

140 00 

140*00 

140*00 

140*00 

— 

140.00 

140-00 

120* 

Goat meat (Retail Price) • * 

99 

140*00 

140 00 

140-00 

140*00 

— 

140*00 

140-00 

120* 

Pork (Freeh) (RetaU Price) 

99 

100 00 

100-00 

100-00 

100-00 


100-00 

94*00 

90' 

Milk ami Milk Preduct*. 


3rd 

10th 

17th 

24th 

— 




Milk (Cow) 

Md. 

30*00 

66 00 

27*00 

83-00 

— 

34-00 

34*75 

27 

Milk (Buffalo) 

99 

40- 00 , 

45-00 

36-00 

36-00 



38-75 

40 00 

41 



6th 

18th 

20th 

27th 

— 




Butter (Bihar) .(Malted) .. 1 

Quintal 

616-40 

616-40 

616*40 

616-40 


616-40 1 

230-00 

225 



3rd 

10th 

17th 

1 

24th 

— 




Butter (Bihar) (unaalted) . . 

»» 

) 

589*60 

i 

689*60 

1 

689-60 

689-60 


689-60 

220-00 

210 



6th 

13th 

23th 

27th 

— 




Ghee (ordinary) 

99 

616*40 

616*40 

603 00 

603-00 

— | 

009-70 

235 00 

237 

Ghee Agmark (Bibar) 

99 

629 * 80 • 

629-80- 

629*80 

616-40 

- • 

626-05 

235-00 

220 



3rd 

10th 

17fch 

24tb 

— 




Ghee Agmark (U. P.) 

it 

670*00 

670*00 

696*80 

670-00 

— 

670-70 

265 00 

252 



6th 

13th 

20th 

27th 

— 




Ghee Agmark (Madraa) 

99 

603*00 

603*00 

603*00 

603*00 

— 

603-00 

225-00 


Ohhane 

• 9 

40 00 

32 00 

32 *00 

27*00 


32-75 

40-80 

32 

FUh. 










ICatla 

Quintal 

i 308-20 

294 • 80 

294-80 

294-80 


298-15 

112-50 

lm 

Bobu 

*» 

321*60 

321 60 

321*60 

321-60 

- 

321 60 

120-00 

111 

Hike 

99 

268*00 

308*20 

308*20 

308-20 

— 

298-16 

116-00 

■ 

Ohingri (Bagda) 

99 

281*40 

281*40 

281*40 

281-40 


281*40 

106-00 


Beokti 

99 

321*60 

821*60 

321*60 

321*60 

— 

321 -60 

120*00 

■ 

Indian Salmon 

99 

264*00 

264-60 

254*60 

264-60 

— 

264*60 

95-00 

1' 

Mallet (Bhangan) 

99 

321 *00 

227*80 

281*40 

282-40 

— 

278 -06 

116-25 

o! 


N. 8.—K0 .apply. 








SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 5, 1962 


97 







Dates. 




Average 

Average 

^ammacUty. 

Unit. 






Monthly 

of 

of 






average. 

October, 

November, 


6th 

■Hth 

20th 

27th 

- — 


1961. 

1060. 



Ha. nP. 

Ka. nP. 

Its. nP. 

Its. uP. 

Rs. nP. 

R a . nl*. 

its. nP. 

Rh. n P. 

Fieh — ocncld. 









Por Md. 

Pangash (Butter fish) 

Quintal 

294-80 

294-80 

N.S. 

N.S. 

— 

294-80 

110 00 

96 00 

Koi 

*» 

442 *20 

402 00 

348-40 

348 -40 

— 

435*25 

105 -00 

122 50 

Mugur 

h 

442-20 

428 80 

402 00 

402 00 

- 

1 

105 00 

140 00 

Dry tlsti. 










Bombay Duok 

Md. 

80 00 

80 00 

85-00 

85-00 

— 

82-50 

85-00 

85-00 

Beckti (Big) • • 

M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

72-00 ' 

72-00 

— 

72-00 

— 

75 00 

Beokti (Small) 

• e 

70-00 

70 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

— 

70-00 

70-00 

N.S. 

pmwns (with Shell) 

M 

70 00 

70-00 

70-00 

70 -00 

— 

70 00 

70 00 

65-00 

Prawns (without Shell) 

« 

160 00 

120-00 

12<P00 

120-00 

— 

130-00 

160*00 

120.00 

SIimp and Goat. 





i 

\ 





Goat (10 seers not weight 

Per head. 

30-00 

38-00 

38-00 

38-00 

— 

37-60 

37-20 

31-26 

of meat). 

Sheep (10 seers net weight of 

M 

32 • 00 

.33 00 

33-00 

33 00 

— 

32 75 

33 40 

29-00 

meat). 










Milch Oftttle. 










Cowb (milk yield of 3 hoops ft 

Per head. 

225-00 

985-00 

225-00 

225-00 

— 

225.00 

326 00 

226-00 

day). 

Cows (milk yield of 4 sooth a, 


275-00 

275-00 

275-00 

275-00 



276.00 

276-00 

275 00 

dayj. 

(Wh (milk yield of 6 seers a 


375 00 

375-00 

375-00 

375-00 ' 

.. ,, 

375.00 

375-00 

375*00 

day). 

Buffalo (milk yield of 0 seers 

19 

450 00 

475-00 

475-00 

475-00 

_ 

468.75 

450 00 

400-00 

a day). 

Buffalo (milk yield of 8 seers 


500 00 

550 * 00 

550-00 

550-00 

.... 

637.06 

500*00 

460-00 

a day). 










Cattle Fodder. 


Sth 

14th 

21st 

28 th 

— 




boat, Bran 

55 Kg. 

14-74 

14-74 

14-74 

14-74 

— 

14-74 

8-60 

7-60 

co Bran 

,, 

4*79 

4-79 

4-07 

4-07 

— 

4*43 

305 

2*76 

wmr Bhusi (Chuni mixed) 

,, 

12 54 

11-77 

13 25 

13 -25 

— 

12-70 

7-00 

8-25 

lioaari Bhusi 

,, 

14-74 

11 04 

14-74 

14 -74 

-- 

13-29 

7-80 

7-00 

hosuri Bhusi (Chuni mixed) 


17 -71 

12 -54 

10 -23 

16-23 


15.67 

9-05 

7-50 

■am Omni 

,, 

20-51 

10 23 

14-74 

14-74 

-- 

18.05 

13-30 

12-80 

liar Bhusi (Chuni mixed) 

»» 

10-09 

1601 

1G-23 

10 -23 

— 

16.51 

11-20 

10-80 

Mg Chuni 

»» 

15-84 

16 .>9 

10-23 

16 23 

— 

16 32 

10 25 

10-60 

wldy Straw . . 

Md. 

2 50 

2-50 

2-50 

2 -50 

- 

2-50 

3-30 

4 60 

Crass (Retail Pric5e) 

M 

2 25 

2 • 97 

2-25 

2-25 


2-43 

2-26 

3 40 

Oil Seeds. 


3rd 

10th 

17th 

24th 

— 




r( mndn ut ( imdeeor ticated ) 

Quintal 

72-34 

72-34 

72-34 

75*02 

— 

73 01 

77 03 

77-18 

Wt° r 

ft 

58-94 

00-95 

02-96 

02-96 

— 

61 45 

59-61 

64-30 

(small) (Bihar) 

99 

80 05 

80-38 

85-73 

84-73 

— ! 

82-72 

77 03 

71-22 

^(^wunun)) . . > 

•• 

109-85 

113 87 

113-87 

111-19 

— 

112 19 

110-52 

110-52 


N. 8. —No (apply, 











08 


SUPPLEMENT TO TIIE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 5, 1962 


WholMate prtoM 


1H1 


Oates. 

Monthly 

average. 

Average 

of 

October, 

1961. 

Av ® r *g» 

of 

Noaember, 

I960. 

3rd 

10th 

17th 

24th 

— 

R a. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Its. nP. 

Ha. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Hs. up. 








Per Md, 

117-89 

119 23 

123 25 

120 57 

— 

120-23 

116-66 

109-ls 

109-85 

111 19 

115 21 

112 53 

-- 

112 19 

107-17 

100 81 

100-47 

101-47 

107-17 

101-81 

-- 

102-71 

93 60 

93 77 

99-13 

103-15 

107 17 

101-81 

— 

102-81 

94-10 

98 • 84 

102-48 

106-50 

108-51 

104-49 


105-24 

100 80 

96-77 

79-04 

78-37 

83-05 

83-72 


81*04 

74-51 

09-40 

155-00 

i 

155 00 

157-00 

155 00 


166-50 

156-00 

166-00 

207-00 

1 209-00 

| 

211 00 

208-00 

— 

208 76 

190-62 

78-10 
Per Md. 

187-00 

188-00 

196-00 

194-00 

— 

191-00 

176-25 

108 00 

220*00 

220 00 

227 -00 

220-00 

— 

223 26 

201 60 

86 25 

267 00 

268-00 

272-00 

272-00 

— 

269-76 

264 26 

280-00 

238-00 

247 00 

264-00 

262-00 

— 

260-26 

227-00 

80-00 

240-00 

250- 00 

206- 00 

266- 00 

— 

252 75 

226-75 

237 33 

209 00 

209 00 

215-00 

218 00 


212 75 

200-50 

71-00 
Per. Md. 

29-47 

29-47 

30* 14 

30-14 


29-80 

28-12 

24 80 

36-17 

36-17 

36-17 

36-17 

— 

36- 17 

35-86 

84 m 

42-87 

42-87 

44-21 

42-87 

— 

43-20 

39-89 

35 07 

37 51 

37 51 

37-51 

37-61 

... 

37-61 

38-38 

41 53 

35-50 

35-50 

36-17 

33-49 

— 

35-17 

83 32 

33-15 

10 72 

10-72 

13-40 

13-46 


17-07 

11 22 

13 4* 

324-00 

320-00 

i 

312-00 

294-00 



312-60 

330-00 

184-91 

300*00 

300-00 

290-00 

290 -00 

— 

295-00 

300-00 

170-16 

460 00 

460-00 

460-00 

460-00 

— 

460-00 

470 00 

183 60 

800-00 

800-00 

800-00 

800-00 

— 

800-00 

800-00 

250 00 

187-60 

187-60 

187-60 

187-60 

— 

187-60 

187-60 

60 00 

91 00 

91-00 

91-80 

91-00 



91-00 

93*80 

34-25 

118-00 

118-00 

118-00 

118-00 

— 

118-00 

120-60 

48-00 


Commodity. 


Oil 8atdl — conoid. 
Mustard (yellow) (Gujrat) 
Mustard (yellow) (U.P.) 
Rai (U.P.) 

Kajii (M. P.) 

Lotni (East Punjab) 
(Bihar) 


Oil. 

Castor 

Groundnut 

Linseed (West Bengal) 
Til 

Cocoanut (Cochin) 
Mustard (West Bengal) 
Mustard (Agniark) 
Mahua (West Bengal) 

Oilcake. 

Castor 

Groundnut 

Linseed (West Bengal) 

Til 

MuBtard (West Bengal) 
Mahua 

Tobacco. 

Matihari (Medium) 

Jati (Medium) 

Hingli (Medium) 

Biri Tobacco . . 
Chewing (BThaini) 

Lac. 

Stick Lao (C. P. P»M 


Unit. 


Quintal 


Quintal 


Quintal 


Quinta) 


Quintal 


Stick Lae (Maabhum Plum) „ 


N3a- 


No supply* 








SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 5, 1962 


99 


prioM November 1061 






Dates. 



Mpnthly 

1 

Average 

Average 

Commodity. 

Unit. 






of 

of 






average. 

Ootober, 

November, 



3rd 

10th 

17th 

24th 


1961. 

i960. 



Ry. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rr. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rr. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP 

L3C - ooncld . 









Per Md . 

| !sM lvi*n>»— No. 1) ■■ 

Quintal 

174- 00 

174 00 

174-00 

174 00 

— 

174-00 

184-60 

70-50 

ji 8C [Manbhum BaysaUi) 

» 

145 00 

145-00 

14500 

145-00 

— 

145 00 

162-70 

65 50 

; shollno 

99 

150 00 

155- 00 

155 00 

151-00 

— 

152 75 

155 44 

62-00 

Fibre. 










j(ljehar) (Jangli) 

Quintal 

70-36 

73-68 

72 34 

68 32 


72 67 

79-71 

120-65 

N Indian 1>»*M (Cminat) 

[ursliidabftd. 

f > 

80 38 

75-02 

73-68 | 

69-66 


74 -08 

82-72 

120-43 

„ (]ij !iari Nurlheili) 

irtiMU , Jalpaiguri. 

H 

86- 74 

84 40 

83-00 

79*04 


83-00 

80-41 

132*78 

,, ( luriiuu Middle) 

M 

81-72 

80-38 

79-04 

75-02 

— 

79 02 

85 -40 

136*04 

>. i.ictj. 










t {Ahtuun Middle) 

»» 

92 44 

92-44 

91*10 

87-08 

— 

90 76 

95 44 

141-07 

P (Indian Middloj 

V.Htl 0: Ti) 

»* 

92 -44 

92-44 

91-10 

85-75 

— 

90-48 

95*44 

140*00 

d J>"ddj (Garflat) 

»» 

88 -41 

88-41 

88-41 

84-40 


87-40 

91*70 

184*96 

I t'a f gttoika. 










ittd.urmii ) (Deshi) 

»» 

79 04 

80-38 

79*04 

72 34 

— 

77*70 

79-30 

128*97 


*» 

75-02 

75-02 

73-68 

69-66 

- 

73 34 

78*03 

121*76 

letup ^loose) (I Sonar oh) 

Md. 

! 40-00 

40-00 

39-00 

39-00 


39 50 

44 25 

80*00 

iomp d'>o8r) (green) 

»* 

41 uo 

41-00 

40-00 

40 00 

— * 

40-50 

45*25 

40-00 

rk Suiiii-hon.p (haled) 
.uriM N v». 1). 

400 lbs. 

100-00 

180-00 

160-00 

160-00 

-- 

100 00 

187*60 

225 *00 

rK Sunn-hemp (baled) 
on uudmased). 

" 

220-00 

220 00 

220-00 

220-00 

— 

220*00 

241 25 

300-09 

rk Sunn hemp (baled) 
eu low) 

M 

215-00 

215-00 

215-00 

21600 

— 

215*00 

233*76 

226 00 

Animal Fibre. 










natld 









Per lb. 

1KR- 

48-00 

48-00 

48-00 

50-00 

— 

48-50 

46*00 

46*00 
Per «eer. 

U*d 

M 

16-00 

16-00 

16-00 

18-00 

— 

16-50 

16*00 

9*00 

loaue 

1* 

14-00 

14-00 

14-00 

14-00 

— 

14*00 

13*60 

0-00 

Hid * and Skin. 


( 








w *i. suited! 

100 lbs. 

119-00 

119-00 

110-00 

110-00 

— 

114-60 

105-00 

106*00 

waited) 

IF 

75-00 

75-00 

75-00 

75-00 

— 

75-00 

76-00 

75*00 

(Average 

100 

pieces. 

250-00 

250-00 

250 00 

260 -00 

— 

260-00 

250*00 

260-00 

• • 


200 -00 

200-00 

200-00 

200-00 

— 

200-00 

200*00 

150*00 












N. b.—No supply, 











SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 5, 1962 


UK) 


wh„imu a* 



Unit. 


niOinS 


H 

Commodity. 

1 

1 







1st 

8th 

15 th 

22nd 

1 

Ha 

m 



Ks. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

Ru. i»P 

Ks nP. 

Kb. ul’. 

Re. nP. 

Hh. n j 

Mitctllaneout. 







6 00 

6-00 

(Per 1| 

Sugar Cane 

I0U 

n 00 

o-oo 

0-00 

0-00 

6-00 

4m 



3rd 

10th 

1 7th 

24tn 





Sugat (Indian (Medium) .. 

Quintal 

los 54 

1 10 55 

108-54 

109-21 

— 

109 21 

114-78 

112 j 
Pot U 

Cjur (Bheli) (U. 1’.) ^Meilmin) 

Md. 

54- 04 

53-00 

(>1 • (14 

(il ■ (U 

— 

57 86 

21*25 

22 < 



1st 

8th 

15th 

22nd 

29 th 




Uur (Akhiy 

Quintal 

5 8* 00 

02-98 

117 00 

07 00 

07-00 

04-00 

22 00 

21 •« 

JDalda ( Hydrogenated 

4 Kg. 

13 13 

13-13 

13 13 

13-13 

13 13 

13-13 

13 13 

12- 

Per loit 

Groundnut <>d). 

Hanoi (Hydrogenated 

»» 

12-24 

12-24 

12-24 

12-24 

12-24 

12-24 

12-02 

if 

Groundnut oil; 

Fat mixture 

Aid. 

85-00 

85-05 

85 • 00 

85-00 

85-00 

85 00 

76-00 

74 

Betel leaf 

1,000 

0-00 

0-00 

0 25 

0 25 

0-00 

0-10 


6 - 

Firewood (Common-- old) 

Cart load 

52 00 

52 00 

47-00 

48-00 

43-00 

49 • 50 

52 00 

40- 

Firewood Common — new) 

oi'l&Mds. 

»» 

42-00 

45-00 

43-00 

43-00 

43-00 

43 20 

43 • 50 

N.S 

Firewood (Split— old) 


55-00 

55-00 

48 00 

48-00 

48-00 

50-80 

47-75 

41 

Firewood (Split- — now) 

ft 

45-00 

45 00 

43-00 

43-00 

43 00 

• 

43-80 

42-75 

AJ 

Bonemwu 

Metric 

250-00 

M.c. 

M.c. 

M.c. 

250-0 0 

250 00 

250-00 

25f- 


Tonne. 








Pei 5 

Flattened ltice (CWa) 

Quintal 

85 71) 

85-70 

85-70 

91 04 

91 -04 

87-87 

32-00 

34 

Parohed Kite (Muri) 

»» 

101-84 

101-84 

101-84 

101-84 

101-84 

•-T 

X 

o 

38 00 


• 


8 th 

14th 

21st 

28th 

— 




Chirata 

»> 

52-00 

52-00 

50-00 

70-00 

— 

57-50 

53-00 

as 


N.S.^No supply. 


WSITKBS ’ BUILDINGS, CALCUTTA, 

Th‘ nth January 1UG 2. 


N. C. HAY, 

Joint Direc^n oj Agriculiu -ai M arketiwj . 0 ' 





SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 5, 1962 


iOl 


CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 

: BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR THE IMPROVE- 
MENT OF CALCUTTA 

ice under section 43 of the Calcutta Impnmmcnt 
Act, 1911 (Bengal Act V of 1911) 

iEME NO. LXX1II (AREA BETWEEN PARK 
CIRCUS AND LINTON STREET) 

s hereby notified under section 43 of the Calcutta 
irovement Act, 1911, that a General Improvement 
eme (to be known as Scheme No. LXXIII) for the 
pose of developing the area between Park Circus 
Linton Street by providing building sites, 
cdying defective ventilation, creating new or 
, roving existing means of communication and 
lities for traffic, affording better facilities for con- 
rancy and rehousing bustee-dwellers likely to be 
, laced, has been framed by the Board of Trustees 
the Improvement of Calcutta in the above area 
iin Wards Nos. 55 and 57 of the Corporation of 
:utta. 

!) The boundary of the area comprised in the 
shown within red verge on plan, is as 

;)ws : — 

On the North: Starting from the north-western 
corner of premises No. 55A, Beniapukur Road, 
running eastwards in a straight line to the north- 
eastern corner of plot No. 35, C.I.T. Scheme 
No. XLIX. 

On the East: From this point running south- 
wards in a straight line to south-eastern corner, 
of plot No. 27. C.I.T. Scheme XLIX; from this 
point running south-westwards in a straight line 
to the south-eastern corner of premises No. 33C, 
Gorachand Road; from this point running south- 
westwards in a straight line to the south-eastern 
corner of plot No. 6, C. I. T. Scheme No. XXXV. 

On the South: From this point running west- 
wards in a straight line to the southern corner 
of premises No. 1 Surhawardy Avenue; from 
this point running westwards in a straight line 
to the south-western corner of premises No. 191, 
Park Street. 


On the West: From this point running north- 
westwards in a straight line to the south-western 
corner of premises Nos. 26A, B and C, North 
Range; from this point running northwards in a 
straight line to the starting point. 

(3) Further particulars of the scheme, a plan show- 
ing the scheme area and a statement of the lands 
proposed for acquisition and for levy of betterment 
fee may be inspected at the office of the Trust at 

10 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, between the hours 

11 a.m. and 3 p.m. on weekdays and between hours 
11 a.m. and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 

Copies will be available on payment of the follow- 
ing fees: — 

Particulars and other information of the scheme 
— Re. 0.25 nP. 

Statement of lands proposed for acquisition or 
lor levy of betterment fee— Re. 0.25 nP. 

Plan of the scheme area — Re. 1.00 nP. 

(4) Objections to the Scheme will be received up to 
2nd July 1962. 

(5) Under section 6A of the Land Acquisition 
Act, 1894, as introduced by the Schedule to the 
Calcutta Improvement Act, 1911, as amended by the 
West Bengal Act XXXII of 1955, the publication of 
this notice shall have the same effect as the publica- 
tion of notification under section 4 of the Land 
Acquisition Act, 1894. 

K. SEN, 
Chairman. 

Calcutta, 

Dated the 16th March 1962. 

NOTICE 

Calcutta, the 5th March 1962. 

Notice is hereby given under section 47(3) of the 
Calcutta Improvement Act, 1911, that the Board of 
Trustees for the Improvement of Calcutta have 
applied to the State Government for sanction to the 
Improvement Scheme No. LXXXII (Shyam Bose 
Road, Chetla) which was first published in the 
“Calcutta Gazette” and in local newspapers on the 
6th July 1961. 

K. SEN, Chairman. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at the West Bengal Government PresB, Alipore. 




egistertd No. C207 


SThr 





IAITRA 15 J 


THURSDAY, APRIL 5, 1962 


[SAKA 1884 


‘ART IA — Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India ; and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 
and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India” are only 
republished. 


PRESIDENT’S SECRETARIAT 
NOTIFICATION 

New Delhi, the 18th January 1962 
No. 7-Pres./62. — The notification reproduced 

x’lovv is to be substituted for the notification bearing 
lie same number and date published on page 236 of 
Part 1, Section 1 of the “Gazette of India", dated 
Saturday, the 14th October 1961. 

"PRESIDENT’S SECRETARIAT 
Notification 

New Delhi, the 30th September 1961 

No, 45-Pres./61. -The President is pleased to 
approve of the institution ol an award to be 
Jcsignated the “JEEVAN RAKSHA PADAK” in 
ilitec giadcs, namely, Class One, Class Two and 
Class Three and to make the following regulations: - 

1'ii'sthj. The decoration shall be in the form of a 
Model, and styled and designated the “JEEVAN 
RAKSHA PADAK” (hereinafter referred to as the 
medal). 

Secondly. -The medal shall be circular in shape 
7 °l o thickness of 3 mm. The geometrical pattern 
shall consist of two raised circles, inner and outer, 
^ in the representative drawing in the annexure. 
‘he diameter of the outer circle shall be 58 mm. and 
:? the inner circle 50 mm. At the top there shall 
ocji rectangular projection 22.5 mm. in length and 
• J mm. in width. At the bottom there shall be 
ivriih r pr °) cction ^2.5 mm. in length and It) mm. in 
•si .a ec *S es of these projections also will be 
-ms ' 9 n obverse of the medal shall be 
in th Ssed in the centre a band in the “Abhai Mudra”. 
j v u PPor projection there shall be embossed the 
Misknt letters “an and in the lower projection 

Hindi^T v°f the medal “JEEVAN RAKSHA” in 
of \ j hand, the Sanskrit letters and the name 

1 m^Hol oVt^ll 1 i I 


surface of the medal shall be toned to constitute a 
plain background. On the reverse shall be embossed 
the State Emblem in the centre with the motto 
u STCRf ’ in the lower projection. A scaled 

pattern of the decoration shall be deposited and kept. 

^ Class One of the Medal shall be made of gold, 
C lass Two of silver and Class Three of bronze. 

Thirdly . -The medal shall be suspended from the 
left breast by a red coloured silk riband 32 mm. in 
width, edged with light blue stripes each 4 mm. wide, 
and shall in the case of — 

Class One ~ have one green vertical stripe I mm. 
wide down the centre; 

Class Two— two green vertical stripes, each I mm. 
wide and 4 mm. apart, in the centre; and 

Class Three— three green vertical stripes, each 

1 mm. wide and 3] mm. apart, in the centre. 
Hie colours red, light blue and green denote fire, 
water and life respectively. 

Fourthly. -The medal shall be awarded for 
meritorious acts or a scries of acts of a humane nature 
displayed in saving life from drowning, fire and rescue 
operations in mines, etc. The extent of the meritori- 
ous acts of a humane nature to determine the class 
of the award shall be as follows: ~ 

Class l of the medal shall be awarded for con- 
spicuous courage under circumstances of very 
great danger to the life of the rescuer. 

Class II of the medal shall be awarded for courage 
and promptitude under circumstances of great 
danger to the life of the rescuer. 

Class III of the medal shall be awarded for courage 
and promptitude in saving life under circum- 
stances of grave bodily injury to the rescuer. 

Fifthly. — The medal may be awarded posthumously. 
_ Sixthly . — The decoration shall be conferred by the 


40 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, 


Seventhly. The names of those persons, jP™ , 
on account of whom the decoration may be ’ 

shall be published in the “Gazette of India . and a 
Register thereof maintained under the direction 
the President. 

Eighthly. -Persons of either sex in all walks Ricos' 
other than the members of the Fighting . ‘ * 

Police Forces and Fire Brigades if the act is . per 
formed by them in the course oi duty, shall dl 
eligible for the award. 

Ninthly. -If a recipient ol the medal of anv of the 
three classes shall again perform such an a 
humane service as would have made him 
eiieible to receive the medal of the same class, such 
further act of humane service shall be re ^°R nis ^ ^ 
a Bar to be attached to the riband by which the medal 
is suspended and, for every subsequent act of human- 
service, an additional Bar shall be added and su h 
Bar or Bars may also be awarded posthumously. 
For every such Bar, a replica of the medal in minia- 
ture shall be added to the riband when worn alone. 

Tenthly .— If a recipient of the medal ol any of the 
three classes shall again perfoi m such an act ot 
humane service as would have made him or he 
eligible tor the award of a meda, o. a class different 
from the one already received, such furthei act ol 
humane service shall be recognised by the award ol 
another medal of the appropriate class. On those 
occasions, when only the riband is worn, an additional 
riband pertaining to the appropriate class shall also 
be worn. 

Eleventhly. -The miniature medal which may be 
worn on cei fain occasions by recipients shall be hall 
the size of the medal, and a sealed pattern ol the 
said miniature medal shall be deposited ana ktp . 


Twelfthly .— The President may cancel and annul 
the award of the medal to any person and thereupon 
the name of such recipient in the Register shall be 
erased and the recipient shall be required to surrender 
the insignia; but it shall be competent for the 
President to restore the decoration when such 
cancellation and annulment has been withdrawn. 


Easily. The notice of cancellation or restoration 
in every case shall be published m l ho <la::eHe "I 
India. 

ANNfcXiwt; 

JEEVAN RAKSHA PA DAK 
OBVERSE RFVERSI: 



A. V. Pm, Secy, 
to the President." 
V. J. MOORE, Under Secy. 


APRIL 5, 1962 [Part i* 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 
NOTIFICATION 

New Delhi-2, the 25th January 1962. 

G.S.R. No. F. 14-64/ 59-PH. -In exercise ol u, e 
powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 1 
sub-section (1) of section 23 oi the Prevention 0 | 
Food Adulteration Act, 1954 (37 of 1954), ^ 
Central Government alter consultation with ^ 
Central Committee for Food Standards, hereby make; 
the following rules further to amend the Prevent® 
oi Food Adulteration Rules, 1955, the same havim 
been previously published as required by sub-sect® 
(1) of section 23 ol the said Act, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Prevention 0 
Food Adulteration (Amendment) Rules, 1962. 

2. In the Prevention of Food Adulteration Rules 
1955, in Appendix B atter item A 1 1.04, the followmj 
item shall be inserted, namely . 

“A.11.04.0J. Double Toned Milk means il, 
product prepared by blending milk with 

(a) tresh separated milk; or 

(b) separated milk reconstituted from spra 

dried skim milk powder; or 

(c) by partial abstraction of lat thiough skiinnmi 

or separation of milk; 
and containing not less than 1.5 per cent. < 
milk fat and 10 per cent, of milk solids othi 
than milk fat. 

KRISHNA BJllARl, Dy. Secy. 


GOVERNMENT OF ASSAM 

Orders by the Governor 

Political Department 
NOTIFICATION 

Dated Shillong, the 10th February 1962. 

No. PLA.8/62/6.— Whereas the Governor 
Assam is satisfied that the leaflet entitled “Bangl 
Bipunna Hindu Sabdhan” in Bengali written by SI 
Mahendra Kumar Ghose, B.L., contains matie 
which are likely to promote or are intended 
promote reelings ot enmity anu halied betiw 
different classes of citizens of India especially betvve 
the Hindus and the Muslims. 

Now, therefore, in exercise ol the powcis conien 
bv section 99A oi the Code of Ciimmai Piocalu 
I gun (Act V of 1898), the Governor ol Assam 
pleased to declare every copy ol the alon-smcl Fat 
to be forfeited to Government. 

A. N.KID'VAI, 

Chief Secy, to the Govt, ol A.,>a 

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS 

Now Delhi, the 28th February l%2 
No. PFG(63)-Admn./53. The services "I 
N. C. Sen Gupta, I.C.S., Joint Secretary l<> the ^ 
eminent ol India, Ministry ol Finance Dcpadrne 
Economic Affairs have been placed at tin' <■ ' s r 
ol the Mimslrv of External attains vmIIi rl u 
the jllernoou oi ihe 19th February, 19h2. 

P. GANGUl El.. T'- v 


CORRIGENDUM 

In i hi F.\ '.inordinary issue of Ihc 
Gazetti-", Part 1A, dated the 26th Octo c ^ 
n-ad “K. V. Vcnkatachalam” in pi** 01 
Benkatachalam” in both the notifications. 

s. mukherjel 

Supdt., Govt. Printing, Wcb *■ 1 



dklnttta 


(HIjp 





(Sa^ttr 


CATTRA 15] 


THURSDAY, APRIL 5, 1962 


[SAKA 1884 


PART IB. — Educational Notices 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 

BENGAL ENGINEERING COLLEGE 

P.O. Botanic Garden, Howrah 

IHE Bengal Engineering College will open next 
esMon on July 2, 1962. 'I he College is a residential 
, nc and oilers courses lor the B.E. Degree Exarnma- 
ion of the Calcutta University in Civil, Mechanical, 
Metrical, Metallurgical, Mining and Tele-commum- 
ation Engineering and also lor the Degree in 
\rchitecture. Admission will be granted on the 
■csults ot an admission test consisting of a written 
lamination for all candidates to be conducted by 
;he “West Bengal Board of Examination for A-'mis- 
lion to Engineering Colleges” as per dates given 
x-low which will be followed by a medical test and 
uva-voce test. Applications must be made in the 
described form with a crossed Indian Postal Order 
■bowing deposit of Rs. 12 (Rs. 6 being the registra- 
;ion fee payable to the Board plus Rs. 6 payable to 
’uch College to which admission is sought) payable 
;o the “West Bengal Board of Examination for admis- 
uon to Engineering Colleges” and should reach the 
Mice of the Board, c/o Bengal Engineering College, 
P.O. Botanic Garden, Howrah, on or before April 
18, 1962. The College prospectus and requisite 
application forms may be obtained from the college 
office either personally or by sending an unstamped 
self-addressed envelope of 10"X4|" size on and 
from 26th March 1962. A number of scholarships 
:;R d stipends will be awarded to meritorious 
students on the results of the Admission Test. 
Applications for the Five-year integrated degree 
course under the new regulations of the Calcutta 
university will be entertained from candidates who 
ave either passed or will appear this year in the 


Pre-University Examination of the Calcutta Uni- 
versity or the Higher Secondary Examination in the 
Science stream or the Technical stream of the 
Board of Secondary Education, West Bengal, with 
Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics or its equi- 
valent. The selection of the candidates who have 
appeared in either of these qualifying examinations 
will however be subject to their passing these exami- 
nations fhis year. Candidates must not be over 
19 years of age on January 1, 1962. The age limit 
may be relaxed up to 21 years with the prior appro- 
val of the Government in the case of deserving 
applicants belonging to the educationally backward 
classes and communities. Further details regarding 
admission, number of seats in different branches, 
examination syllabus, programme, etc. are given in 
the prospectus. 

Dates of Admission Test 

Monday, May 21, 1962 — 

10 a.m. to 1 p.m. — Mathematics (for all candi- 
dates). 

3 p.m. to 5 p.m.— English Composition and Precis. 
Writing (for all candidates). 

Tuesday, May 22, 1962 — 

10 a.m. to 12 noon — Physics (for all candidates). 
12-30 p.m. to 2-30 p.m. — Chemistry (for all 
candidates). 

Wednesday, May 23, 1962 — 

10 a.m. to 1 p.m.— Free hand Drawing (Archi- 
tecture candidates only). 




<£azrtt? 


Sfglstettd So. C207 



(Ealortta 





MTRA 15 ] 


THURSDAY APRIL 5, 1962 


[ SARA 1884 

— — — a saa 


PART II — Advertisements, Notices 


jwctdi 


P*P* r - Th» namu of ii(natory ihould bo typowritton 


uro rogarding sending Manuscripts for publication of Advortlsomants, Notices, otc., in tho 

"Caleutta Qazetto" (Part II). 

1. Manuscripts should bo properly edited aad complete la itself. 

1 Manuscripts should always ba typowritton on cue sMs of tho 
Stow the signature. 

3 . Manuscripts Intended for advertisement in tho next issue of "Oalcutta Musette" shall be received by Publication Sales 
m si New Secretariat Buildings, i Hastings Street, Oaleutta, up to 3-30 p. as. on Friday and at Hoad Office at Alipore up to 
I mu. on Saturday. 

4. All costs shall be paid in advance and deposited along with tho maauocripts. 

5. Manuscripts and P^tri remittanm shaH bo ^ffianod to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING (PUBLICATION 
RANCH), WE8T BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS, ALIPORE. 

Tbs press shall not bo bold responsible for delay la publication of aay advertisement duo to the non-oosorvanco of the 
ftticfoni detailed above. 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 


Advertisement No. 13 


h’iill'ATlONS are invited lor undermentioned posts 
piu Indian citizens and pel sons of Indian origin migrated 
Ijiii Pakistan with intention ot permanently settling in 
dia, subjects of Nepal, Sikkim or State ol Pondicherry, 
id persons domiciled in (loa, Daman and Diu. Age limits 
taxable tor Government servants except where otherwise 
pcified. Upper age limits relaxable by live years for 
Muled Pastes and Scheduled Tribes candidates. No 
fixation lor others, save in exceptional circumstances, 
Id will in no case he relaxed beyond three years. Quali- 
itions relaxable at Commission's discretion in case of 
ndWates otherwise well qualified. Particulars and appli- 
tum tonus obtainable irom Secretary, Union Public 
Commission, Post Box No. 18b, New Delhi. Request 
rkums must specify name ot post and should be uccom- 
minl by self-addressed unstamped envelope tor each post 
'least ot size 9"x4" indicating thereon name of posts for 
l lor,,,s arc required. Closing date lor receipt of 
Jl 1 H'atuiii with treasury receipt or crossed Indiun Postal 
lor Its. 7.50 nP. (1.87 nP. for Scheduled Castes and 
Muled Tribes) 30th April 1002 (14th May 1962 for 
i * rom . a broad). Separate application with 
V ate lee required for each post, Candidates abroad 
boAif on . pl a i n P a I>er if forms arc not available and 

ndidat > W ^ * wca * ^ nt ^ ul1 -Embassy. if, required 
must appear for personal interview. 


• N ( , a .L°? 6 ®i 00heml8t . and (■»> °nu Bactarloiogist, at 
it llk ™ Recearoh Institute. Posts temporary 

r SHii, , /^Dnuo for about five years. Posts reserved 
/Tribe s candidates if such suitable 
‘ available otherwise tn»ated as unreserved. 

B.~0(^0a~-E. B.- 
1 * -Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
M*nenced candidates. Agci-35 years and below. 


Qualifications! Essential (i) M.Sc. degree in Chemistry/ 
Biochemistry ior post (a) and Biochemistry /Bacteriology / 
Microbiology lor post (b) oi recognised University or 
equivalent, (ii) About two years’ research experience m 
Biochemistry for post (a) and in bacteriology lor post (b) 
as evidenced by published papers. 

2. Two Assistant Soil Conservation Officers (Forests). 

Soil Conservation Research, Demonstration and Training 
Centro. Central Soil Conservation Board, Ministry ol Pood 
and Agriculture. Posts temporary but likely to continue 
indefinitely. Other things being equal Scheduled Castes/ 
Tribes candidates would be prelerred. Pay: - Ks. 350 
.150— 380- -30 590 — E. B. -30 — 770 — 40 — 850. (Subject to 

revision in the light ol Pay CominisHion’s recommenda- 
tions). Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidates. Age: — 35 years and below. Quaii- 
hoatiOni: Essential — Diploma of Superior Forest Service 
Course, Dehra Dun. Or Degree in Forestry of recognised 
University. Or Degree in Science with Certificate of the 
Banger’s College of Dehra Dun or Coimbatore with about 
eight years’ experience on Soil Conservation works in a 
post not lower than that ol u Hunger in a State Forest 
Department. 

3. Drawing Officer, National Atlas Organisation. Minis- 
try of Scientific Research and Cultural Affairs. Post tem- 
porary, but likely to continue. Post reserved ior Sche- 
duled Castes /Tribes candidate, if such suitable candidate 
available; otherwise treated as unreserved. Pay: — Ks 4uu 
-400- - 450 — 30 — 600 — 35 — 070 — E. H. _ 35 — 960. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
AgC: Preferably below 40 years, for all including Govern- 
ment servants. Qualifications: Essential— (i) Degree with 
Geography as a subject ol u recognised university. Or 
Diploma in Draftsmanship with training in map drawing 
from a recognised institution, (ii) Adequate experience in 
running a Drawing Section, with working knowledge of 
various operations of printing office in general. 


138 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 5, 1962 
■ =* * ■ ■ 


4. One Legal Adviser, Munloipai Corporation of Delhi. 

Post tempo* ary but is expected to be retained on perma- 
nent basis. Pay* — Rh. ],10(N-2>0 — 1,300 (50 1,000. 

Higher initial pav to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate. Age:— No age limits prescribed. Qualifica- 
tions: Essential — (i) Degree in Law of a recognised 
University, (ii) About 12 years’ experience as practising 
lawyer in Civil Courts. 


5. One Senior Research Officer at the Forest Researoh 
Institute and Colleges, Dehra Dun, Ministry of Food and 
Agriculture. Post temporary but likely to continue 
indefinitely. Pay; -Rs. 400 —400—450 — 80-=-CO() — 3^>- — ^>70— 
B.B.— 35— 4)50. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. Ago: — 35 years and below. 
fioations; Essential— ID Master’s degree in Botany with 
Mycology us a special subject of lecognised University or 
equivalent, (ii) At least three years* experience /research 
in Mycology, preferably oi mythological investigations, in 
connection wilh the iorest plant diseases and their control 
in field. 


0. One Research Officer, Optical Laboratory, in the 
Department of Lighthouses and Lightships, Ministry of 
Transport and Communications. Post temporary but likely 
to continue indefinitely. Post reserved for Scheduled 
Castes candidate il such suitable candidate is available 
failing which treated as reserved for Scheduled Tribes 
candidate if such suitable candidate is available, otherwise 
treated unreserved. Pay:--lts. 400 — 400 — 450—30 — 600 
35— 67(1— E.B. - -35— 950. Higher initial pay to specially 
qualified and experienced candidate. Age:* 35 years and 
below. Qualifications: Essential— (i) M.Sc. degree in 
Physics or degree* in Mechanical /Electrical Engineering, at 
recognised University or equivalent, (ii) At least two 
years’ experience oi conducting research in technical optics 
and spectroscopy in a reputed Laboratory or University. 



U. One Junior Medical Officer (Orthopaedics 
ment), Safdarjang Hospital, Ministry of HeaithTp,*' 

temporary but likely to continue. Pay: Rh. 

450 — 30 — 600 — 35 — 670 — E. Ii. — 35 950 plus 25 p, T 
pay subject to a minimum of Rs. 150 per month an Ji u 
maximum of Rs. 400 pur month. Private practice ot 
kind whatsoever is not allowed. Higher initial i ia « !* 
specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age'll 
years and below. Qualifications: Essential — (d \ Mi-d,? 
qualification included in the first or the Second Kchuluk * 
Part II of the Third Schedule (Other than Licent n ?' 
qualification) to the Indian Medical Council Act, p)-]' 
(ii) Post-graduate qualification in Surgery, e.g., M S J 
F.R.C.S. or E.A.G.S. or equivalent, (iii) About Inc \^ r 
experience in the speciality ot Orthopaedies. 


12. Two Assistant Surgeons (Team Leader for Survn 
Unit), National Tuberculosis institute, Bangalore, Ministn 
of Health. Posts temporary but likely to be retained J 
permanent basis. One post reserved lor Scheduled Tribe, 
Castes candidate ■ it no such suitable candidate ava ilabk 
both the posts will be treated as unreserved. Pay;-[{ s 
— 25 — 500 — 30 — 590 — E . B.- -30— 800 plus m>n-pra< w 

allowance of 25 per cent, ol pay, subject to a minimum,] 
Rs. 150 per month. Private practice of any kind will uu 
be allowed. Higher initial pay to specially qualified an ( 
experienced candidates. Age: 30 years ami below. Qug|| 
ftcations: Essential — (i) A Medical qualification (OUh 
than Licentiate qualification) included in the First 0 
Second Schedule or Part II ol Third Schedule to the India, 
Medical Council Act, 1956. I Persons possessing quaht, 
cations included in Part II of Third Schedule should ulv 
lulfil the conditions relating to registration specified u 
Section 13(3) of the Act.| (ii) About two years’ standm 
in the* profession, or about me* vein's internship m J 
recognised Hospital, or about si\ months’ experience (! 
B.C.U. work or T.I3. Suivey work. 


7. Two Senior Research Officers (Processing) in the 
Central Fisheries Research Station, Ministry of Food and 
Agriculture. Posts temporary but likely to continue 
indefinitely . Pay:— Rs. 7(H)— 50- 1,250. Higher initial pay 
to specially qualified and experienced candidates. Age: — -45 
years and below. Qualifications:- (i) Master’s degree in 
Chemistry /Biochemistry/ Food Technology, or equivalent, 
(ii) About live years’ research/ practical experience in 
processing, preservation, freezing and utilisation oi 
fisheries and allied products. 

8. (a) One Senior Research Officer (Craft and Gear) 
and (b) One Research Officer (Craft and Gear), in the 
Central Fisheries Technological Research Station, Ministry 

Of Food and Agriculture. Posts temporary but likely to 
continue indefinitely. Post at (b) reserved Tor Scheduled 
Castes candidate if such suitable candidate is available, 
otherwise both posts treated unreserved. Pay: - (a) Rs. 700 
— 50- - J ,25< ). (b): Rs. 400— 40- -800— 50- 950. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidates 
Ago: — 45/40 years and below respectively. Qualifications: 
Essential: (i) Master’s degree in Science nr equivalent 
(or) degree in Naval Architecture/Mechanical /Electrical 
Engineering of recognised University or equivalent, 
(ii) Research/ practical experience in craft and gear 
technology /designing and construction of boats, ol about 
five years for (a) and of about three years for (h). 

9. One Research Officer (Processing) in the Central 
Fisheries Technological Research Station, Ministry of Food 
and Agriculture. Post temporary hut likely to continue 
indefinitely Post reserved foi Scheduled Tribes candidates 
if such suitable candidate* is available otherwise treated 
unreserved. Pay:— Its. 1(H) — 40—800 — 50 -950. Higher 
initial pa,> to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
AgO; — 40 years a rid below. Qualifications: Essential: 

(i) Master's degree in Chemistry /Biochemistry / Food 
Technology ol recognised University, or equivalent. 

(ii) About three years’ research practical experience in 
fish processing. 

10. Assistant Editor on the Research (nOn-Government) 
side of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. 

Post temporary, but likely to continue indefiniwdy. Other 
things being equal preference given to Scheduled Caste.*./ 
Tribes candidate. Pay:--Rs. 400— 25— 500— 30— 650— E.B. 
— 30—800. Ilighc. ini tin] pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. Age: — 45 years and below. Quali- 
fications: Essential: — (1) Degree of a recognised university 
with Botany as a subject, (ii) About three years’ 
experience of editorial work and/or writing preferably on 
technical subjects (evidence to be furnished with 
application) . 


13 One Reader in Medicine, Mauiana Azad Medics 
College, New Delhi, Delhi Administration. Post tem 
porarv but likely to become permanent. Pay: Its 570 
30- 600 — 15- — 670 — E. B. -35 - 950 plus Tioii-pnirtisjfc 
allowance at- the rate ol 25 per cent. o| pay, suhjeci tu. ; 
minimum of Rs. 150 per mouth. Highei initial j»a\ :< 
specially qualified and experienced candidate Age: 
years and below'. Qualifications: Essential (1) A M <‘da*,i 
qualification included in Ihe First or Second Schedule » 
Part 11 ot the Third Schedule to the Indian Mcdiea 
(Council Act, 1956. (ii) Post-graduate/ Research Degree -a 
Diploma, e.g., M.D., M R.C.P. (hi) About three \e:,o 
teaching experience as Led urer ■/ Demonstratm /Kogistia 
in Medicine in a Medical ( lollege/ Hospital. 


14. (i) One Dairy Chemist and (ii) 10 Quality Contro 

Officers, Delhi Milk Scheme. Posts temporary but hkeh u 
continue indefinitely. Dost (1) icseivcd lor Sciicduler 
Castes /Tribes candidate. Posts (ii) 2 reserved loi Sdie 
< 1 11 led Castes and i for Scheduled Tribes. Ii sm h suit aha 
candidates are not available, all posts will he tieah*c! 4’ 
nrneserved. Pay:- (i) Rs. 350- 2 V 500— 30 590 KIN 
30— 8()()> -E.B— 30— 830 35 900. (11) IN. 325 - 15 

K.B. 20 -575. Higlier initial pav to specially qualified mi 
experienced candidates. Age: — 35 years and below) 
Qualifications: Essential— For both posts: ( 1 ) B.nj 11 
Dairying or M.Sc. in Chemistry/ Biochcuusti > /Dan) 
Chemistry / Food Technology oi a recoguised unneisit.i l| ! 
equivalent. Or Assoeinteship m Fafs and Oils <>l tW 
Hareourt Butler Technological Institute, Kanpur 
(ii) Special training anil /or adequate expci leim* 1 
analysis of milk and milk products. 


1.-,. Assistant Entomologist, Malaria Institute of ln<M 

Delhi. Post permanent; but appointment to be 
temporary basis in a l ; en vaennev. Pay*. - IN . 

500 E.B.— 30— O50-- E.R — 30- 800 (suhied to H*visHm 1 

the light ol Pay Commission’s recommendations). ‘N, 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced rimu- ! 
Age: — 35 years and below. Qualifications: Ess 1 

(a) (i) Master’s or equivalent Honours degice in <’< j 
witli specialisation in Entomology of » recognised j 

sity. (ii) About three years’ experience in the * ] 

Malaria /Filaria Research or Control. Or (D A < ; J 
Zoology (with Entomology) of a recognised an , 'j 
(ii) About five years’ experience in the hel<l d v 

Filaria Research or Control, (b) Training m '' \i ( . ( ] 1 r j 

(c) Teaching and research experience JM 
Entomology. 

1C. Two Assistant Administrative Offiosrs, 0> t n e d 5 
karanya Project, Ministry of Rehabilitation. “• " 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 5, 1962 


139 


abt 11 3 


likely to continue for about three years. 1 osts 
for Scheduled Castes candidates. Applications 
sen T from Scheduled Castes candidates only. Pavs - 
05 —, 575 plus Project allowance of 20 pei 


Pays 

per cent, of 


s ' a uiaximum of Hs. 1 CX) per month. Higher 

rJrL to specially qualified and exuei icnced candi 
titl’d P'v ^ v^m*.. 1 


. expei icnced 

- 1J years and below. Qualification*: Essen- 

i^ s - .. Oejrree of a recognised University, (ii) About 
experience oi administration and establishment. 
^ J e xll h Government Department or Corporation, 
“j knowledge ol Hmigali. 

- one Osputy Director (Youth Programme), Ministry 
^nmifiunity Development and Co-operation. Post tem- 
* C ° m ,nd likely to continue Post reserved lor Scheduled 
pr ! ! T Vnrididate ; if 110 such suituble candidate available, 
•11 be treated as unreserved. Pay:— Hs. 7tM>- 10--1 UH>- 
:1 m 1 049 Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
^pneiiced* candidate. Age:— 40 years and below . Quali- 
Nations' Essential— (i) Decree ot a recognised University. 

^ About three years’ experience of working m oiganised 
nlivpnu'iits of social or youth service. 

m seven Assistant Controllers of Imports and Exports, 
.J^irts and Exports Trade Control Organisation, Ministry 
icommerce and Industry. Posts temporary and likely to 
" ,; nnf > Poor posts reserved for Scheduled Castes and 
tor Scheduled Tribe* candidates. Applications 
ll ,L f j pom Scheduled Castes l '\ Vibes caml'datcs only. 
'-av^-Hs 1 f 10 — 24 — 5( )( )-- -41 t 590 — K.B. — 40 — S(M). 1 1 ighcr 

^■iTdsiv to special I v qualified and experienced candidates. 
g e L:C)‘ years ami below. Qualifications: Essential:— 
) Drgie/* oi a recognised University. (ii) About live 
cars’ experience! in a responsible supervisoiy capacity m 
icveniment Department , Corporation or in n business 
oncern ol rejiute. 


iq one Junior Field Officer (Chemical) in the Develop- 
nent Wing, Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Post 
Hn I unary hut likely to continue. Post rescued lor Sehe- 
lukil I'astes/Tiibes candnlate 11 such suit aide candidate is 
nailable otherwise treated unreveued Pay:- Hs. 425 — 
|,V .I7.V-K.H-- 20 575. Higher initial pn\ to q>e» uilly 

U ;,ljj, (M j :hk 1 experienced eandidale Age:- 40 years and 
Joiow Qualifications: Essential: (i) Master’s device in 
Jn y brail' ll of Chemistry or equivalent. (Or) LVgiee in 
4iVhiiral Kngmcei mg or Chemical Technology. ( 11 ) About 
in,, yrars’ < xperienee o| pioduelion or design work in a 
dii'niii'td Imtoiy, post-graduate icseareh or development 
Muk in the field ot chemical industries in a Government 
liquid merit. 


22. One Woman Medical Oifioer, Rural Health Training 
Centre, Najafgarh (Delhi), Ministry of Health. Post 
permanent hut appointment will be made on temporary 
basis in hen vacancy. Pay:— Rs. 425 - 25 — 5(K) — 40— -590— 
KB— 40 — 800 plus non-practising allowance of 25 per cent, 
of pay, subject to a minimum of Rs. 150 per month. 
Private practice of any kind will not be allowed. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age: — 40 years and below. Qualifications: Essential : — 1 i ) 
A Medical qualification included in the First or Second 
Schedule or Part II of Third Schedule (other than licentiate 
qualifications) to the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956. 
| Persons possessing qualifications included in Part II of 
Third Schedule should also lulfd the conditions relating to 
registration specified in Section 14(4) of the Act. 1 (ii) 
About two years’ experience as Home Surgeon or in 
private practice or in public health. 


PUBLIC 8ERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 

General instructions to candidates applying in response to 
advertisements issued by the Commission for recruit* 
mem to posts of “Selection". 

(1) Instructions regarding submission of application. - 

Applications are to be made on the prescribed form wlucb 
will be available from the office of the Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor). 
Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a laige self 
addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to cover the 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 
copies of the prescribed iorrn may apply on anv similar 
typed (not handwritten) term showing exactly the word* 
nig and spacing of the sample form published in the 
“Calcutta Gazette" of the 1st September 1955, provided 
the blanks are tilled up in the candidates’ own handwriting. 

( 2 ) Particulars and certificates required. — Candidates 

should furnish evidence ot their age, qualifications ami 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, test dying to their private 
character. 

TTie Commission accepts only the age of a candidate as 
lecorded in the MatrieuJatnm or the Secondary School 
Final/ Leaving Certificate. In the case of a JeniaJc candi- 
date whose age is not recorded in the Matriculation or 
School Final Certificate, any of the following evidence of 
age ia accepted by the Commission:— 


One Lady Assistant Surgeon, Grade I (Anaesthesia), 
Safdarjang Hospital, New Delhi, Ministry of Health. Post 
lem porarx anil 1 1 L « ly to continue. Post reset veil for 

S'liKlulcd ( ’ast.es/ Tribes < amlidates, il no such suitable 
UHiditlate available, will he treated as unreserved. Pay: — 
Rs.lAV 24 51 M) 40 590 KB— 40 800 plus non pracl w»mg 
iillf/u aiice o] 25 pci rent, of pav, subject to a minimum of 
IT loll per month. Private practice ol any kind will not 
fo* allmml. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
f'Y|it‘rienced candidate. Age: 40 vears and below. Quali- 
fcatwns: Essential:— (i) A Medici.! «,ualWi<a« ion (other 
tliau licentiate qualifieal ions) included in the First or' 
Schedule or Part II of Third Schedule to the Indian 
Medical Council Act, 1956. [Persons possessing qualificn*- 
t, " ,|s whaled in Part II of Third Schedule should also 
‘1 the "onditions relating to registration specified ill 
110,1 14(4) o| the Act.] (ii) About two years’ 

e* li'ii' *** ,|, the spci-iiihiv of Anaesthesia in a Hospital. 

1 Three Lady Assistant Surgeons, Grade I, Safdar- 
8 Hospital, New Delhi, Ministry of Health. Post 
q>ora j*\^ and likelv to continue. Pay: — Hs. 425 25 — 

^•10 -490— KB —40 — HIM) plus non-practising allowance 
-j !>cr cent, of pay, subject to a minimum of Hs. 150 per 
• Private practice of any kind will not he allowed. 
Jy‘ r •nitial pay to specially quafified and experienced 
ulatos. Age: — 40 years and below. Qualifications: 

tiat : — ( i ) a Medical qualification included in tin* First 
uuml Schedule or Part II of Third Schedule (other 
t up!! 1int( ' qualifications) to the Indian Medical Council 
, r J x\'"\ [Persons possessing qualifications included in 
( a . <)j Third Schedule should also fulfil the conditions 

to registration specified in Section 14(4) oi the 
ni'e.” 1 ) ^out two years’ experience in the Obstetrics 
u»am>h)gy Department of a large Hospital. 


1. A certificate from the Headmistress of the school 

which she last attended, showing her exact age as 
recorded in the school register. 

2. An affidavit regarding her age s worn by her father 

or mother or sume other person in a posit 1 m to 
know by having been present or heard of h»*r birth 
at the time of occurrence. 

4. A certificate regarding her age, from a Member of 
the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who must 
have known the candidate and her family, indicat- 
ing clearly the evidence on the basis of which he/ 
she satisfied himself / herself on the point. 

(4) Fee.— Candidates must enclose with their npnlicn 
turns a tee of Re. 5 in the form of a receipted chttlan 
from a Government Tiensury or the Reserve Bank of India 
under the head “XXXV 1 - -Miscellaneous -Heeeipts of tin- 
Publio Service Commission, West Bengal". Money r.rderw, 
cheques, etc., in lieu ot treasury challans are not accented 
Postal order, however, mnv be accepted from candidates. 
I hey should he crossed and made payable to “The Secre- 
tary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal" Mo appli- 
cation will he considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application tee. 

Candidates abroad may deposit their application fees 
with the High Commissioner of India or the Kmbassy, m 
the cose may be, and obtain receipts tor the same, which 
will have to be attached to their applications to he sub- 
mitted to the Commission 

Candidates in Government service should make •ure 
Indore depositing fee that their applications will he forward- 
ed by their superior officers. In no case will the fee paid 
with the application be refunded. 



140 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 5, 1962 


[Part a 


The Commission m*y remit fee in ceee of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced person from ►tfakistan. 

An indigent displaced person shall, in the first instance, 
pay the application fefc prescribed for a gazetted 
advertised by the Commission but if he / she is selected for 
and appears at the interview, the fee paid by him/her will 
be refunded afterwards. 

Mote. “(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 

must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is bona fide displaced person trom Pakl f t *“’ * ® 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazett 
officer or a Member of Parliament or State legislature, in 
original. 

(ii) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his appli- 
cation a certificate in original from a gazetted officer or a 
Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging to 
the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, the 

particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 

(ill) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion fee must furnish besides the ev.dence required under 
Note (D above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or » Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.” 

(4) Address. — Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 

(5) Canvassing.— -Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of tbeir applications through persom i of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
jairsons interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will be disregarded. 

(6) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corp^ation) m 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 

Candidates serving under Government or a local or 
Statutory Body should submit an advance copy m the pres- 
cribed form. ‘The application fee should in s '>oh caHcs bc 
attached to the advance copy and not to the original. I he 
candidature of «uch applicants may not however to «m- 
sidered if tbo original applications do not reach the < om- 
mission’s office within a fortnight from the closing date 
Unless applications in original or advance . cop.es w b 
application fees are received within the closing date, late 
applications may be rejected. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Alipore, the 27th January 1901. 


Advertisement No. 16 


appointment to the post by promotion 
apply. Pays— Rs. 400—26 — 450 — 30 — 600 
quarters will be provided. 


per month, p 


gible ^ to 
Free 


Qualifications!— (i) Skilled manufacturer, qualified to 
superintend the manufacturing department in all 
branches, e.g., carpentry, smithy, weaving, carpet niakin* 
bamboo and cane works, etc.; (n) Adequate mechauiii 
and electrical qualifications and knowledge in the machi 
aeries oi the Jail. Age: — Ordinarily between 30 and as 
years on the 1st April 1962. 


(c) Three Lecturers in English (Men’s Branch) aiM 


(d) One Lecturer in Hindi (Women's Branch), 

In the West Bengal Junior Eduoatlonal Service. p U8ts 
tenipmnry. Women unsuitable for posts in the M ea \ 
llranch and men unsuitable for the post in the Women’, 
It ranch. 


Pay (for both the categoriat) Rs. 276— 15—3,50 — 20^ 
650 per month plus house rent allowance as admissible 
under the rules. Higher initial pay up to Rs. 650 niuy be 
granted in suitable cases. 

Qualifications: Etsontial- -A first class Master’s degree 
Or, A second class Master’s degree with first class Honours 
in the Bachelor’s degree, Or, A Doctorate degree with a 
fit si class Honours or second class Master’s degree, m 
English or Hindi, as Ihe case may be, of an Indian 
Iniversity ; 

or, 

Equivalent, foreign qualifications; 

Or, 

[| a candidate has otherwise a good academic record, a 
second class Master’s degree with second class Honour, m 
tlir Bachelor’s degree in English or Hindi, as the case may 
lie, plus five years’ teaching experience in a rt*eognisi«d 
college as a whole-time teacher in the subject. The period 
of teaching experience may be relaxed at tl|e discretion of 
the Commission. 


Desirable — (i) Good power ol expression in Ucngsili 
spoken and written. ( l i ) (lor one oi the jmsts ol Lecturer 
in English) Good power ol expression in l ulu spoken 
mid written. Ag6: Not moie than 65 years on the U\ 
April 1*102, relaxable lor specially qualified candidates and 
lor persons holding substantive appointment m the 
Education Department. West Bengal. 

Age Concession 

The upper age limit I nr all the posts is iclaxablc In 
five .'ears lor Scheduled Castes /Tribes and up to 45 years 
lor displaced persons from Pakistan. 

A candidate who bcloie the 15th August 1947 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account ul 
Ins /her activities in connection with the count rv's 
struggle for independence, not being convicted ui an 
e Hence indicating moral turpitude, shall he entitled to a 
concession in respect of the upper age limit. The conm* 
sum granted will be equal to the exact period ol detention 
imprisonment., internment or exteinment xufieivd up to a 
maximum ot four years. 


APPLICATIONS are invited Irom Indian citizens 1m I he 
following posts: - 

(a) One Assistant Horticulturist in the West Bengal 
Agricultural Service (Research). Post permanent but the 
amjoint ment will he made on temporary basis. Pay:- 
Ks! 300 -30 —900 (E.B. alter 8th and 16th si ages) pel 
month. 

Qualifications: Essential <i) A second class degree in 
Agriculture, Or, A sc oml class Master’s degree ill Botany ; 
(if) A reasonably high standard oM’ost-Graduaie Training 
in ’ Horticulture. Desirable -G> Kxper.ence o. Keseurel, 
work in Horticulture; <n> hxperience ol Gw-lniig, 
(iii) Familiarity willi agricultural problems ol West 
Bengal Age: — Not more Ilian 2a years on tin; 1st Apt 

1962? relaxable in 111 - ease ol candidates specially we I- 
qualified and experienced and lor persons alie.idy m 
permanent. Government service. 

One Deputy Superintendent, Presidency Jail, under 
the Home (Jails) Department, West Bengal. Post perma- 
nent. Women unsuitable. Persons having a lien or a 
conditional lien on a permanent, post under the Home 
(Jails) Department, West Bengal, who are eligible tor 


Apply to Secretary with a Treasury Chalan m IB •> 
under head “XXXVI- Miscellaneous— Receipts el P'lblir 
Serv ic<* Commission, West Bengal”, or a crossed ■ 4, "| a 
Order ot Rs. 5 payable to “Secretary, Publu Service* 
Commission, West Bengal”. Overseas eandidates nia\ 
deposit tlieir application fet*s with the High Comimsxian 
ot India or the Indian Embassy, as the case may H ' 
Particulars and prescribed application forms obtuma^ 
Irom the office of the Commission, Anderson l * ,s . 
(ground floor), Alipore, Caleutta-27, personally or on 
mg a self-addressed envelope (size lfPxO") with P 0 \j 1 ^ 
stump of .35 nP. and the name of the post supersen a* 
on the envelope. Those who intend to take appi'i* 1 
lorms and/or submit the applications personally snaan 
so between 10-15 a.m. and 3 p.m. on full working < 
and between 10-15 a.m. and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 

Closing date — The 23rd April 1962. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary. 

Public Service Commission, West 
Alipore, the 20th March 1902. 


>AflT II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 5, 1962 


141 


Advertisement He. 17 


»PLJCATI0NS are invited from Indian citizens lor the 
JowitUi 

Qm speoial Offioer (Gangetlo Silt), West Bengal, 
the Commeroe and Industries Department, West 

'Seal. Post temporary. Pay* — Rs. 300 — 30 — 9 (X) (E.B, 

• 8th and 16th stages) per month plus house rent 
as admissible under the rules. 

n gljftyatlons* Essential — (i) Second class Honours 
” in Chemistry followed by (a) Second Class Master’s 
, r » in Applied Chemistry with Ceramics as a special 
S or, (h) B .Sc. (Tech.) degree in Ceramics of a 
^otimsed University; (ii) Three years’ practical experience 
mix luet ion of earthenware, pottery and terracotta, etc.. 
11 ^ n factory or workshop of repute. Desirable— 
n Research experience on the utilisation of clay and other 
1 raw materials; (ii) Experience m statistical 
^tl'ods and quality control. Ages —Ordinarily not more 
hiii 'T> years on the 1st April 1962, relax able up to id 
eau> m the case an exceptionally qualified candidate. 

dosing date— The 30th April 1962. 

(h > one Assistant Professor of Veterinary Surgery in 
1 west Bengal veterinary Service. Post- temporary, 
ay:- Us. 300“ —30 -900 (E.B. after 8th and Kith stages) 
lM p, until plus house rent allowance as admissible under 
be rules. 


Qualifications: Essential — (i) Membership of the Royal 
ollctft 1 of Veterinary Surgeons or M.Sc. (Veterinary 
rinl( f) ; Or, (ii) A degree or recognised diploma iii 
pUnnuiv Science plus five years’ Clinical experience m 
’rteunary Surgery in a teaching Veterinary Hospital, 
lesirable — (i) R ('search experience in Veterinary Surgery; 
in Teaching experience preferably in a Veterinary 
lollege ; (in) Knowledge ot Bengali spoken and writteu. 
ige i— Ordinarily between 2d and 3d years cm the 31st 
lf><fnibpr 19(52, relaxable in the case of candidates 
osscssing exceptionally high qualifications or for persons 
olding substantive appointment under the Central or a 
tate Government. 


Closing date- The 26th April 1962. 

in One Lecturer in Geography in the West Bengal 
unior Educational Service (Women's Branch). Post 
•nipoiHi \ . Men unsuitable. Pay: - Its. 27d- Id 350 — 20 
pci month plus house renl allowance as 
liiiissililf* under flu* rules. Higlici initial pay up to 
f> -Til) may be granted in suitable cases. 


Qualifications : Essential A first class Mattel's degree 
r » ' class Master’s degree with first class Honours, 

r » A Kocforate degree with firsf class llonours or srnmd 
Bss M.im (.' i ’ s degree in Geograph\ , of an Indian 
niversity ; 

° r , 

Kqim«ilrnf lorcign qualifications; 

Or, 

11 ' undid. if o lias otherwise a good at adciuc reemd, a 
Wl class Master's degree with set end c Lid Honours 
; 1,1 KcograpliA , plus five yea is* fe.,< him experience 
- ^‘cuginsed college as a w hole! hue I ea< bei in t lie 

hi! j. e P 0ri °d of teaching experience may be relaxed 
ne dl8 cretion of the Commission. 


fbiocl power of expression in Bengali spoken 
,1 HwiJ 0, _ AgOr -Not moro than 35 years on t-hc 1st 
nor**' 1 , W 1 ! 10 * or s pociallY qualified eandidates and 
,. 1)flrt son , s . holding substantive appointment in the 
t,fm Department, West Bengal. 

teslng d *te— The 26th April 1962. 

» R n .L A ”u ist ? nt R ®* e arch Officer (Statistics) in the 

gal Ganem We8t Ben 8 al > in ‘he West 

7??; losi ‘' f ‘ I,l l ,0,i, r.v. Pay: Its. 275— 
uh nliii! (^*B. alter 8tb and 16th stages) per 

\ house rent allowance as adiuis idle undor the 


Qualification*! — A first class Master’s degree, Or, A 
Doctorate degree, Or, A second class Master’s degree w r ith 
a first class Honours degree, in Statistics or in Pure or 
Applied Mathematics. Age: — Ordinarily not more than 27 
years on the 1st April 1962. 

Closing date— The 26th April 1962. 


Age Concession 

The upper age limit for all the posts is relaxabte by 
five years for Scheduled Castes/ Tribes and up to 45 years 
for displaced persons from Pakistan. 

A candidate who before the 15th August- 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externod on account of 
his/her activities in connection with the country’s 
struggle for independence, not- being convicted of an 
offence indicating moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a 
concession in respect of the upper age limit. The conces- 
sion granted will be equal to the exact period of detention, 
imprisonment, internment or extern inent suffered up to a 
maximum of four years. 

Apply to Secretary with a Tieasur.v Chalan of Rs. 5 
under head “XXXVI— Miscellaneous — Receipts of Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal”, or a crossed Postal 
Order of Rs. 5 payable to “Secretary. Public. Service 
Commission, West Bengal”. Overseas candidates may 
deposit their application fees w’it-h the High Commission 
of India or the Indian Embassy, as the case may be. 
Particulars and prescribed application forms obtainable 
from the office of the Commission, Anderson House 
(ground floor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on send- 
ing n self-addressed envelope (size* 10" x 6") with postage 
stamp of .35 nP. and the mine 1 oi the post superscribed 
on the envelope. Those who int< nd to take application 
forms and/or submit the applications personally should do 
so between 10-15 a.m. and 3 p.m. on lull well king days 
and between 10-15 a.m. and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 


A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West- Bengal. 


Alipore, the 23rd March 1902. 


APPLICATIONS are united from Indian citizens for the 
post of a Foreman in t-hr Non-gazetted service for the 
Government Saw Mills, Sihguri, undor the Forest- 
Directorate, West Bengal. Pay scale: Rs. 400 25 — 450—30 
— 600. No Dearness Allowance is admissible. Qualifica- 
tions:— (a) Must possess nc/t less thaai l, on years’ experience 
in servicing and maintenance of machineries in electrically 
run Sawmills; (h) Must have acquired good knowledge 
about different types of machineries in such Sawmills; (c) 
Must also he able to teach subordinates in picking up 
maintenance work of different kinds of machinery in Saw- 
mills. Age: — No limit. Condition of Service: — The apoint- 
mont will be on contract basis for a period of two years from 
July 1962. Candidates rausi he of sound health, good 
physique and active habits, tret' from defects or bodily 
infirmity and capable of putting in hard work expected of 
an employee of the Directorate. Candidature of those 
found endeavouring to enlist support of persons of influence 
or of officials of Government or spontaneous recommenda- 
tions from persons interested in or otherwise known to the 
candidates will automatically he disregarded. Candidates 
will have to appear before a Selection Committee 
for interview and selecticm, — the date, time and venue of 
interview being notified later to the applicants. Applica- 
tions along with attested copies of certificates, must reach 
the Chief Conservator of Forests, West Bengal, Waiters 1 
Buildings, Calcutta, by April 30, 1962. 



142 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. APRIL 5, 1962 


LPart ii 


Notioo to creditors of the dato of tioartag of an 
Insolvency petition 

(Section 19 of the Provincial Insolvency Act V of 1920) 

IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, 
MIDNAPORE 


Insolvency Case No, 3 of 1962 

WHEREAS Kalidas, son of late Sree I tarn hi, resident ot 
Mathurakati Apprentice Quarters, P.K. Kharagpur, 
district JVlidnapore, has applied to this Court, by a petition, 
dated the 20th February 1902, lor being declared an insol- 
vent under the Provincial Insolvency Act V of 1920, this 
is to give the creditors notice that the Court has fixed Mie 
28th day ot April 1962, for the hearing ol the aforesaid 
petition and tho examination of the debtor. 

J. SARMA BARKER, District Judge. 


Dated the 19th March l%2. 


(280—1) 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 

Original Jurisdiction 

In tho matter of Companies Act, 1950 ; 

And 

In the matter of Messrs. Howrah Iron & Steel Scrap 
Dealers’ Association (P) Ltd. 

Company Petition No. 42 of 1962 


Marcandy Prasad Radha Krishna Prasad Private Ltd. 

Petitioner. 

ADVERTISEMENT OF PETITION 

NOTICE is hereby given that a petition for the winding-up 
of the above-named Company by the High Court at Cal- 
cutta was on the 2(ftli day of February 1962 presented to 
the said Court by Messrs. Cham Ohundra Bosu, Solicitors 
for Marcandy Prasad Radha Krishna Prasad Private 
Limited, of No. 65, Grand Tiiink Road. Salkia, Howrah, 
a creditor of the abmemuned Company and that the said 
petition is directed to be heard before the Court on tho 
3f)th day of April 1962. 

Any creditor, contributory or other person desirous of 
supporting or opposing the making of an order on the said 
petition should send to the petitioner or its attorneys notice 
of his intention signed by him or his advocate with his 
name and address, so as to reach the petitioner or its 
attorneys not later than five days before the date fixed for 
the hearing of the petition, and appear at the hearing for 
the purpose in person or by his advocate. A copy of the 
petition will be furnished by the undersigned to any 
creditor or contributory on payment of the prescribed 
charges for the same. 

Any affidavit intended to he used in opposition to the 
petition should be filed in Court, and a copy served on the 
petitioner or its attorneys, not less than five days before 
the date fixed for the hearing. 

CHARTJ GHUNDRA ROSE, 
Attorneys for Petitioner. 

9 Old Post Office Street, Calcutta. 

Dated 27th March 1962. 


(301-1) 


COMPANY PETITION NO. 40 OF 1962 * 

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 


Ordinary Original Civil Jurisdiction 



In the Matter of Economic Paint Mart Private Ltd 
And 


in the Matter of an application under section 4,‘V,) h, 
aaid Act. 

NOTICE is hereby given that a petition lor the winding 
of the ahovenamed company by the High Court 'll 
Calcutta was on the 16th day of February 1962 present*} 
to the said Court by Shn Nripendra Nath Saniadder i 
No. 17/1, Cliandi Ghosh Road, Calcutta-, as a creditor of 
the said Company and that the said petition is directed t 
he heard before the Court taking Company matters on 
30th April 1962. m 

Any creditor, contributory or othei person desirous „i 
supporting or opposing the making of an order cm the said 
petition should send to the petitioner or his attorneys 
notice of his intention signed by him or his Advocate or 
Attorney not later than five days before the date fixed for 
the hearing of the petition and appear at the hearing for 
the purpose m person or by his Advocate or Attorney. ^ 
copy of the petition will he furnished by the undersigned 
to any creditor or contributory on payment of the 
prescribed charges for the same. 

Any affidavit intended to be used in opposition to the 
petition should be filed in court and a copy served o n the 
petitioner or his Attorney, not less than five days before 
the date fixed for the hearing. 


R II ADR A & BRAHMACHARI, 


Attorneys for the petitioner abon 
named IB Old Post Office Street. 
Calcutta. 


Dated the 30th March 1962. 


( 30 , 1-1 


IN THE COURT OF 2ND MUNSIF, 
SAMASTIPUR 

Mortg. Ex. Case No. 96 of i960 


Most. Bibi Sayera Khatoon, w/o V v Yusuf All, Gudri Bazar 
Samastipur (Parbhanga), Decree-holder. 

versus 

Md. Idris and others, Judgment debtors 

1. Md. Yunus, son of Arjuniaml Ali, Harin Ban LarU 
No. 6, Calcutta’. , 

It is notified that the Decree-holder has filed execiitioj 
case noted above against you for the realisation of Rs 
the decretal amount besides interest and cost of tjj 
execution case. He has prayed Hint tho suit land be soli 
in s»tisfacti(/n of tho decree money. 

Therefore you are informod through this notice to »PP® 
personally or through any pleader on 6th April Bpi 
6-30 a.m. before this court* to show cause why execution t 
not proceeded against you, failing the property will be 
to sale. 

Given under my hand and the seal of the court this 1J 
day of M»rch 1962. 


gftrnr w* \ 

I/ch. Munsif 2nd court, Snmastipn 
(311-1 


Pa» t 11 1 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 5, 1962 


143 


. COMPANY PETITION NO. 37 OF 1962 

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
Original Jurisdiction 

In the Matter of Companies Act, 1956 
And 

jn the Matter of Hindus than Minerals A* Quarries 
Private Ltd. 

And 

|n the Matter of section 439 of Companies Art, DAO. 

V()TtC 4 K is hereby given that a petition for winding-up <»l 
thp abovcnained company by the High Court at Calm! la 
ttHS on the 7th February 1962 presented to the said Cow i 
bv the Registrar of Companies, West Bengal, and the said 
nrtition is directed to be heard by the Court on the lllji 
$ of May 1962. 

\n v creditor, contributory or other person desirous oi 
supporting or opposing the making of an order on the 
said petition should send to the petitioner or his attorney 
notice oi his intention signed by him or hv his attorney 
W ith his name and address, so as to reach the petitioner 

Ins attorney not later than five days before the date 
}!\ed for hearing oi the petition and appear at the hearing 
lor the purpose in person or by his attorney. A copy ol 
the petition will be furnished by the undersigned loans 
creditor or contributory on payment of the prescribed 
charges for the same. 

Any affidavit intended to be used in opposition to the 
petition should be filed in Court and a copy served on 
the petitioner or his attorney not later than li\e days 
before the date fixed for the hearing. 

- Dated the 20th March 1962. 

ft. D. PYNE, 

Attorney for the Petitioner. 

IB Old Post Office Street, Calcutta. 


COMPANY PETITION NO. 29 OF 1962 

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
Original Jurisdiction 

In t ho Matter of Companies Act, 1950 
And 

In the Matter o| section 439 of the said -Act 


And 

In the Mattel of Alfa Agency Private Ltd. 
Suburban Stores Supply (Jo, Petitioner. 

Advertisement of Petition 

NOTICE is hereby given (hat. a petition lot (ho winding up 
ol the abovem. mod company of the High Court at Cal 
cull, a was on the 19th <lay ol February 1962, ptosculc.i 
(he said Hon tile Couit In Messrs. Suburban Stores Suoplv 
(i.mpany ol No. 7G. Cine How, Calcutta, creditors ol t be 
said Company and that the said petition is directed to be 
heard betore the said Court on the 2nd day ol April l!Mi2. 

A n\ creditor, contributory or other person desirous of 
supporting or opposing the making of an order on the 
said petition should send to the petitioners oi their 
attorney notice 0 | his intention signed by him or his 
advocate or attorney with his name and address, so as to 
teac h the petitioners or their attorney not later than five 
days before the date fixed for hearing of the petition, ami 
appear af the hearing tor the purpose in person oi h\ hi* 

a , t , aUo, "r v - • A ,«W of tho lotion Will be 

luinished by the undersigned to any creditor or contri- 
butory on payment of the prescribed charges for the same. 

. ny affidavit intended to he used in opposition to the 
; s hould be filed in Court, and a copy served on the 

.etn loners or their attorney not. less than five days belore 
i in cl .itii lixeu lor t lit* hearing. 


(283 -1) 


COMPANY PETITION NO. 39 OF 1962 

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
Original Jurisdiction 

In the Matter of Companies Act, 1950 
And 

i thf Mutter ot Chandiberia, Krishuapur Punarlia.saf i anc 
Krish? ftamity Ltd. 

And 

In the Matter of section 439 ot the said Act. 

iOTICE is hereby given that a petition for winding up o 
bo abovenamed company by the High Court at Calcutta 
s ,£ n o P February 1962 presented to the said (‘our 
tie Registrar of Companies. West Bengal, and the said 
Btition ,s directed to he heard by the Court on the lllii 
ol May 1962. 

innli'p*- " ''ontribut.ory or other person desirous ol 

!P<irtit,g „r opposing the making of an mder on tin 
,tJ !°. n "hould send to the petitioner or his attorney 
th h.J * lntpn J Ion i signed by him or by his attorney 
his Lii ‘ m< “ a " d ? ddress - 80 118 to reach the petitioner 
^ for b«r V n0t P ,ater than f,v(> fla .vs before the date 
Mho ni.ro ng ° f the Petition and appear at the hearing 
» petiS Ifui’v P r rH0I l , or b y ,lis attorney. A copy ol 
editor or ,.„Li u° / urnis * K 'd b - v the undersigned to anv 
ar Ws f or the'same* 0 ^ °" ,> ” vment ol thp proscribed 

''i ^houM I wf n fii d , to 'j? usod in opposition to the 
? Petitioner or fd * « m Court and a copy serv ed on 
ore the date lator than five days 

n , , aate nxed for the hearing. 

* the 20th March 1962. 

S. D. PYNE, 

Attorney for the Petitioner. 

IB Old Post Office Street., Calcutta. 


P. L. KEDIA, 

Attorney for the Petitioner, 

6 Old Tost Office Street, Caleutta-1. 

Dated the 12th March 1962. 

( 2Ho— | ) 


-nii,. iv. v HAM, ADAH intends tc 
Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 


(207 4) 


DWAIUKA 

enrolled as 


PRASAD AOARWAL. T,I,.B., intends to 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


be 


( 212 — 1 ) 


ANIL KUMAR CHOUDHITRY, LL B 
rolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High 


intends 

Court. 


to be en- 
(21G -4) 


MALAY KUMAR SAHA, LL.B., intends to b 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


enrolled as 
(217-4) 


u ,, i ‘ ADtlYAY, LL.B intends 

to be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(218 — 4) 


A NANG 
enrolled 


A NATH CIIAKRABARTT, LL.B., intends to he 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


1 \ 


144 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. APRIL 5, 1962 


[Part u 


ANIL KUMAR SAR'KAR, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
hs an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(220—4) 


PUTUSH KANTI PHAR, LL.B., intends to be enrolled a* 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court.. 

(221-4) 


SUNIL KUMAR BHAPRA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(222 — 4) 


SHREE PTIANINPRA NATH SEN intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate in the High Court at Calcutta. 

(223-4) 


DHARM RAJ SINGH, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(235—4) 


SHRI CHARAN BARAU, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(241 4) 


SATINDRA NATII BISWAS, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calouttu High Court. 

(240 — 4) 


RANAJIT KUMAR MANUAL, LL.B , intends to he 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(247 — 4) 


RATHINDRA KUMAR SARKAR, LL.B., intends to 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court ^ 

(287-^) 


KKSHARI CHAND MOHTA, LL.B., inlands to be 
ed as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. r ° ‘ 

( 268 ^ 4 ) 


KHRIMATJ SAPHANA SARKAR, LL.B intends to b 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court ^ 

(269-4; 


MONORANJAN HARI GHOSH, LL.B., intends to l 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(270-4) 


AJIT KUMAR MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends tube 
enrolled ns an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(271-4) 


.1 YOTl PROKASFI SAUHUKHAN, M.A., LL.B., intend 
to he enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(272-4) 


SUKUMAR BISWAS, LL.B., intends to he enrolled as a 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(273 — 4 


PYART SHANKAR BEHANI, LL.B., intends to be enroll 
ed as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(274-4; 


HARJ PRASAD Oil AUDHUR1, M.Cotn., LL B , intends in 
he enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

<24* -4) 


MU. AULA BUKHSH, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as ar 
Advocate of the Calcutta Hign Court-. 

( 277 )- 4 ) 


PRAMATHA NATH PANDTT, M.A., LL.B., intends to bo 
enrolled ps an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(240 -4) 


SHRI AJTTCII ANPRA MAJUMPAR, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(250-4) 


SHRI ANIL KUMAR. PAS CHAUDHURI, LL.B.. intends 
to be enrolled as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

( 261 — 4 ) 


SHRI KIR AN MAY GHOSH, LU.B., intends to be enrolled 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


DEBABRATA MAITRA, LL.B,, intends to be enrolled an 
an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(276-4) 


SUNIL KUMAR BISWAS. LL.B., intends In he cni"U< 
as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(281 - 


SANTI RAN,! AN Oil AKIIABARTI, M C-ni. i- 1 ' 1 ' 
intends to he enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High i-ourt 

(2 82 


SHRI H1MANOSHU MOHAN BANEKJEE. R 
to be enrolled as an Advocate ol Calcutta High 


It., iiitr^ 1 
( Viurt. 


SHRI HRATINDRAMOHAN RAY, LB.lS. n'lf"* 1 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(iiM- 


(202—4) 




THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 5, 1962 


145 


AGRAWALA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA 

a rtf fno rolnnt.fo Rurn Paiii4 


ciTARAM AGRAWALA, LL.B., intends 
Jp Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(295—4) 


crRBNDRA SINGH MALIK, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(290— 4) 


CAlhEN SEN, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 

(297 — 4) 


Summary of the minutes of the Proceedings of 
Commissioners’ ieth Meeting, held on the 18th 
December 1961 

At the 10th Meeting of the Commissioners held on the 
I8th December 1901, the following business was 
transacted: 

1. Audit Note on the accounts of the Commissioners 
ior the Port of Calcutta for the year 1959-00: 

It was decided to send a communication to Govern- 
ment in terms ot the Chairman’s draft ‘Comments on 
the above Audit Note. 

2. Construction of two Pilot vessels— Third Fivo-Yeai 
Plan: 


jjglU PRAB1R KUMAR SARANGI, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court at Calcutta. 

(305 — 4) 


MK. MB. ABDUL HAKIM intends to he enrolled as an 
advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(306 — 4) 


PRANAB KUMAR GANGOPADHYAY, LL.B.. intends to 
bi enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(307 — 4) 5. 


lhe Commissioners sanctioned. subject to the 
‘■auction of Government, us a charge to Capital an 
estimate oi Rs. 180 lakhs for the above work. 

3. Application for a loan of Rs. 1 crore from Govern- 
ment for financing Third Five-Year Plan projects 
(comprising carried over projects from the Second 
Pive-Year Plan and new projects): 

.. ^ om mission or s deckled to apply to Government, 

tor the grant of a loan ol Its. 1 crore. for financing 
certain projects covered by the Port Development 
Scheme under the Third -Five-\ear Plan. 

4. Recommendations of the Classifies! ion and Categori- 
sation Committee and the Second Pay Commission — 
Application ot the revised pay scales to employees who 
have ceased to be in service: 

The Commissioners sanctioned, subject to the 
sanction of Government, the Chairman’s proposal in 
the matter. 

^ rv * ( ‘ e (Recognition of Service Association) Rules, 


rANDTTRANG SHEORAM BAGATHEY, LL.B., intends 
to be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(308 — 4) 


Jo'JENDUA KUMAR BHASIN, LL.B., intends to bo 
niiiilU*d as an Advocate of tlu Calcutta High Court. 

(309 — 4) 


&RI DURGA DAS KUNDU, 
wirolJod a-s an Advocate in the High 


LL.B., intends to be 
Court at Calcutta. 


(310—4) 


CHANGE OF NAME 

ciient shrw sMwkisha 
tatta f” of 23 Kali Krishna Tagore Street. Oa 

Radhakishan Rati 
lansc 0 t Kathi shall m future he known by th 

«t nhiwkishan Jainarain Mohta only. 

^ Ca,c «tta. this 26th day of March 1962. 


B. M. BAGARTA, 

Attorney for the said Shiwkishan Jamaiain Mohta. 


The Commissioners sanctioned, subject to the 
sanction of Government, the proposal to amend the 
Holes and the Finance, Establishment and Traffic 
Committee’s recommendation in regard to the 
definition of the term ‘employee’. 

6. Annual examination of Sinking Fund, 1960-61: 

. ^ Chairmans report on the annual examination 
ot the Sinking Fund was recorded. 

7. Election of a Port Commissioner: 


It was decided to appoint Shri M. C. Parekh who 
had been elected as a Port Commissioner, vice’ Shri 

Stores Committee 0 * member ° f tho L »“ d 


W J lt„ C “ mn,is8i ." , c rS . app J rovod the Chairman’s proposal 
for the issue of final order on the basis of the views 
of Government, m the matter. 

9. fenders for the construction of two diesel Homier 

barges— Second Five-Year Plan: il0ppor 

'I’ho Commissioners sanctioned, subject to (he 
sanction of Government, as a charge to Capita a 

rioTof twnT^/u HS - l’ 18 ’ 00 - 000 the eonstri.e- 
tion of two diesel hopper barges in supersession of the 

estimate previously sanctioned and the placing of an 
order with Messrs. Simons-Lobnitz Ltd*, the lowest 
tenderers, at an estimated cost of Rs. 97,99,333 nav- 
j emK niade for the actual work done at P the 
tendered rate or rates mutually agreed upon. 

10. Block proposals: 

Comim.ssioners also sanctioned routine establish- 
ment proposals and routine proposals relating to 

mnfeH'd 11 ° • W0rk ''' ^ ri ' ant of leases, purchase of 
inaU riaJ, i emission oi charges, etc. 


The 23rd March 1962. 


P. C. M 1'ITElt , .Secretary. 


(287—1) 


(286—1) 


146 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 5, 1962 


[PART II 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, 1958 
MEHTA INDUSTRIES PRIVATE LIMITED 

(In Members Voluntary Liquidation) 

NOTICE is herby given in pursuance ot section 497 tnat 
a Final Meeting of the Members of the abovenamed Com- 
pany will be held at 3 Ailenby Road, Calcutta, on the 4th 
day of May 1962, at 1 p.m. for the purpose of having an 
account laid before them showing the manner in which the 
winding-up has been conducted and the property ot the 
Company disposed of and for hearing any explanation that 
may be given by the Liquidator and also for determining 
by a Special Resolution of the Company the manner in 
which the books, accounts and documents of the Company 
and of the Liquidator shall be disposed oi. 

P. N. MUKERJEA, Liquidator. 

The 3rd April 1962. 

(288 — 1) 


IN THE MATTER OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES 
1913 

AND 

IN THE MATTER OF CHINA COMMERCIAL fin 
(PRIVATE) LTD. u ‘» 

(IN VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION) 

NOTICE is hereby given that a meeting of the membe 
of the Company will be held on Wednesday, the 9th M rs 
1962, at 1-15 p.m. at 23A Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta^ 
for consideration of Liquidator’s accounts to 7th Jun 
1961 and the final accounts to 9th May 1962, disposal «? 
books of accounts and to wound up the affairs of the Com 
pany finally with effect from the date of the said ineetm 


S. M. SEN, Liquidator. 


(299-1) 


IN THE MATTER OF 8HREE HANUMAN INVESTMENT 
CO. PVT. LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION) 

(Pursuant to section 485 of the Companies Act, 195<>) 

NOTICE is hereby given that the following social resolu- 
tion was passed unanimously in an Extraordinary General 
Meeting of the members of the above company held on the 
26th March 1962 : — 

“Resolved that tho company namely Shree Hanuman 
Investment Co. Pvt. Ltd. be wound up voluntarily and 
that the winding up he a members’ voluntary winding up 
and that Shri B. L. Lohia of 489/1 Grand Trunk Road, 
Sibpur, Howrah, be and is hereby appointed Liquidator 
ot the company with powers for winding up the affairs 
ol the company and distributing the assets of the com- 
pany and that the remuneration of the said liquidator be 
and is hereby fixed at Rs. 1,100 in addition to his out-of- 
pocket expenses.* ’ 

B. L. LOHIA, Liquidator. 
Calcutta the 26th March. 1962. 

(289—1) 


IN THE MATTER OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT 
1913 

AND 

IN THE MATTER OF 8ULTANGUNGE 
BAIDYANATHDHAM LIGHT RLY. CO., LTD. 

(IN VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION) 

NOTICE is hereby given that a meeting of the member, 
of the Company will he held on Wednesday, the 9th Al.i\ 
1962, at 1-30 p.m. at 23A Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-], 
for consideration of Liquidator’s accounts for the year 
ending 14th March 1961 and the final accounts to 9th Mn 
1902, disposal of books of accounts and to wound up th** 
affairs of Company finally with effect from the date of the 
said meeting. 

S. M. SEN, Liquidator. 

( 300 - 1 / ; 


IN THE MATTER OF THE WESTERN STATES 
TRADING CO. (P.) LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION) 


;n the matter of companies act, ms 
AND 


(Pursuant, to section 485 of the Companies Art, 195C) 

NOTICE is hereby given that the following special resolu- 
tion was passed unanimously in an Extraordinary General 
Meeting of the members of the above company held on 
the 27th March 1962. 

“Resolved that the company namely The Western 
States Trading Company (P) Ltd. be wound up volun- 
tarily and that the winding up be a members’ voluntary 
winding up and that Shri B. L. Lohia of 489/1 Grand 
Trunk Road. Sibpore, Howrah, be and is hereby 
appointed Liquidator of the company with powers for 
winding up the affairs of the company and distributing 
the assets of the company and thaff the remuneration of 
the said liquidator be and is hereby fixed at Rs. 100 
(Rupees one hundred only) per month in addition to his 
out-of-pocket expenses.” 


IN THE MATTER OF HARLALKA BROTHERS 
PRIVATE LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION) 

CREDITORS’ VOLUNTARY WINDING UP 

(Notice of appointment of Liquidator pursuant to 
section 516) 

I, HAMESH KUMAR MANPUR'TA, of 20 Muktaram 
Street, (3rd floor), Calcutta, hereby give notice that 1 
been appointed liquidator of Messrs. Harlalka Brotne 
Private Limited (in creditors voluntary liquidation) ny 
resolution parsed at the creditors meeting of the Compafl 
held on tho 14th day of March 1962. 


RAMESH KUMAR MANPU* 1 ' 


B. L. LOHIA, Liquidator. 


Liquidator. 


Calcutta, the 27th March 1962. 


Dated the 27th March 1962. 


( 302-1 


(291—1) 


147 


i*T W 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 5, 1962 

. * ' 4 ' * '■ 


FORM No". 151 
(See Rule 315) 

COMPANIES ACT, 1956 

members* voluntary winding-up 

Matte* of appointment of liquidator pursuant to 
” section si 6 

Home of Company: Shree Hanuman Investment Co. 
** pvt. Ltd. (In liquidation). 

jfrtftre of business: Investment. 

Address of Registered Office: 178 Mahatma Gandhi 
A Road, Calcutta-7. 

Kamo an d address of Liquidator: B. L. Lohia, 489/1 
^ Grand Trunk Road, Sibpur, Howrah. 

Pate of appointment: 26th day of March 1962. 

Tjv whom appointed: By special resolution of the 
* members of the company. 

B. L. LOHIA, Liquidator. 


UNIVERSAL COMMERCIAL AGENCIE8 (PRIVATE) 
LTD. 

Notice to Shareholders and Creditors 

NOTICE is hereby given that an Extraordinary General 
Meeting of the Creditors of Cniversal Commercial Agencies 
(P) Ltd., will lie held at its registered office at 31 Barada 
Basak Street, Calcutta, on Friday, the 13th April 1962, to 
consider for voluntary winding up of the company as a 
special resolution and to appoint liquidators. 

By order of the Board, 

I. N. THAKUR, Chairman. 

31 Barada Basak Street, Calcutta-36, 

The 28th March 1962. 

(298 — 1) 


jcutta the 27th March 1962. 


(290 — 1) 


NOTICE. 


FORM No. 161 
(See Rule 315) 

COMPANIES ACT, 1956 

MEMBERS' VOLUNTARY WINDING-UP 

Notioe of appointment of liquidator pursuant to 
section 516 

Name ol Company: The Western States Trading 
Company (Private; Ltd. 

Nature of business: In investment. 

Address of Registered Office: 178 Mahatma Gandhi 
Road, Calcutta-7. 

Name and address of Liquidator: B. L. Lohia, 489/1 
Grand Trunk Road, Sibpur, Howrah. 

Date of appointment: 27th day of March 1962. 

By whom appointed: By special resolution of the 
members of the company. 

B. L. LOHIA, Liquidator. 

leutta, the 27th March 1962. 


NOTH' K is hereby given that a meeting of the Shareholders 
and Creditors of the Company is to be held on 26th April 
1962 at 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. respectively at the office of 
Messrs. P. Mukkopadkyay & Co., Chartered Accountants, 
of 12B Netaji Subha s Road. Room No. 11/44, Calcutta-1, 
to consider and to pass the undermentioned Resolution 
which has been passed by the Shareholders as a Special 
Resolution in the Extraordinary General Meeting of the 
Shareholders held on 24th of March 1962. 

“RESOLVED that in view of the present difficulties 
of the Company, it is not possible to continue the 
business of the Company and as some of the Creditors 
are pressing hard for the payment of the demand and the 
Company is not in a position to meet it, the Company 
be closed and the liquidation proceedings of the 
Company be started forthwith and Shri Gopal Chandra 
Mukherjee of Messrs. P. Mukhopadhyay & Co. be and 
is appointed as a Liquidator of the Company at a lump 
sum remuneration of Rs. 250 and Rs. 250 as the cost of 
liquidation proceedings." 

“It is further resolved that Shri Bimal Kumar 
Chatterjee he and is requested to call a meeting of the 
members and creditors of the Company by necessary 
notice by publication in the “Calcutta Gazette" at an 
early date to finalise the above resol utiem." 

Dated, Calcutta, the 28th March 1962. 


(292 — 1) 


(304 — 1) 



gg ; istertd No. C207 


No. IS of 1962 


Gilt? 








OAITRA 22 ] 

THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1962 


[ a AKA 1884 


CONTENTS: 

State Statistical Bureau — Cost of living indexes, 
Calcutta, and wholesale prioe index 

for the week ending the 31st March 
1962 

Calcutta Improvement Trust — Notices 

Page. 

103—104 

105— I0G 





SUPPLEMENT — Official Paper* 

,eNo. 302 8TATE STATISTICAL BUREAU, WEST BENGAL 

TABLE I 


Cost of living indsxei, Calcutta and wholesale price index (week ending 31st March 1962) 


All-Indie wholesale 

Coat of living index — Base : November, i960. price index*, 

r . * ■ — — * * — —"i 


Period. 




Expenditure level (in Kb.) 





Base, 

1952-53. 

Converted 

with 

November 
1950 as 
base. 



1—100 

A 


101—200 

A 

" mmm m 

201— 

JL 

J 

•850 



All 

items. 

Food. 

All 

item*. 

Food. 

Ail 

items. 

i i t 

Food. 


(1) 


(*) 

(3) 

(4) 

m 

<•) 

0 ) 

(8) 

w 

>4 January 


98*9 

88*8 

94*1 

88*4 

94-7 

88*6 

, , 

w 

April 

... 

96*2 

90*4 

95*5 

90*1 

06*3 

00*1 

. . 

. , 

July 

tmm 

94*0 

80*4 

94*4 

89*5 

04*7 

80*6 

. . 

. « 

October 

mm 

96*3 

01 >6 

95 • 8 

91*4 

95*5 

91*3 


m 


55 January 

n. 

00*7 

84-7 

91*1 

84*4 

91*7 

84*5 

, . 

. . 

Apnl 

ass 

89*9 

88*0 

90*5 

88*7 

91*2 

84*0 

88*9 

82*8 

July 

• • 

91*1 

85*6 

91*6 

85*8 

92*0 

86*8 

92*9 

86*0 

October 

a* 

98*7 

89* T 

93*9 

89*4 

94*0 

88*0 

90*6 

88*0 


( 56 January 


90*9 

84*8 

91*0 

84*0 

91*2 

88*7 

•6*8 

8S*S 

April 

... 

95*2 

91*6 

94*8 

00*4 

94*6 

89*6 

100*0 

92*6 

July 


99*6 

98*0 

98*7 

06*3 

97*8 

94*7 

108*5 

95*8 

October 


102*4 

101*3 

100*7 

08»9 

99*4 

96*9 

106*7 

98*8 


•Revised series (Base : 1962-68) and tbe corresponding converted aeries , 


m 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APJUJ, 12, J£62 


Con of living index — B am : November, 1000. 


Expenditure level (in Re.) 

- ■ ■ , ■■ 

101—200 


201—800 


All-India whoUt%u 
price index*. 


■S&. °*w* 

Nov«ob8r 




All 

Food. 

All 

Food. 

All 

Food. 


•MTOU || 

KbSa 



items. 


item#. 


items. 




(1) 


(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

m 

<«) 

( 1 ) 

(8) 

(») 

1957 January 


98 *4 

94*6 

97*0 

91 *9 

90-2 

90*3 

107 *3 


April 


100*5 

98*0 

98*9 

95*0 

97*0 

93*6 

106 -5 

vp *4 

98 f 

July 

— 

106*0 

100*8 

104*1 

108 *0 

102*7 

100*7 

111*9 

108 *0 

October 

*"• 

107*6 

107*0 

106*7 

104 -0 

104-0 

102*3 

108 -9 

IOC 8 

1908 January 

e e 

100 -0 

101 *8 

103*1 

98*1 

101 *8 

96 *4 

100 Hi 

98-2 

April 

e • 

100*0 

103-1 

104 -4 

100 *2 

103 *2 

9V *9 

107 *4 

99 -6 

July 

*> a 

109 *4 

107 -6 

107 -9 

104*9 

100*7 

102*6 

114-7 

104-2 

October 

tie 

113*3 

1 1 4*3 

111 *2 

113-3 

109*3 

108 *5 

110-2 

107 *0 

1909 January 


iu'W» 

97 -2 

102 -9 

95 -5 

102 *7 

94*6 

112-3 

104 -0 

April 

* m 

105 -8 

i00*9 

105*1 

99 -4 

104 -0 

98 -2 

111-9 

103-6 

July 

• • 

110*4 

108 *3 

106 -2 

106-1 

108-1 

104 *0 

116-8 

108 2 

October 

• • 

114-6 

110-0 

113-0 

113-4 

111*6 

111 *0 

119-3 

110-6 

1900 January 


110 -4 

108-3 

108 *0 

106 *3 

107 -5 

103 *2 

118-8 

no -6 

April 

. • 

110*5 

108-0 

108*9 

105*2 

107-9 

103 -3 

120-5 

ill -6 

July 

.. 

114-4 

118-9 

112*8 

1)1 *0 

111*5 

109 *0 

124 -7 

D6-6 

October 

. • 

114-4 

113-5 

113-2 

111 -8 

112 -2 

110-4 

126-3 

117 0 

1901 January 


109 -7 

105 -0 

108*7 

103 -2 

108 *4 

102-3 

125*0 

110*3 

February 

. • 

110 0 

106-1 

109*0 

104 -3 

109 -0 

103 *3 

120*7 

117*3 

March 


110-9 

100-1 

109 -e 

104 -0 

109 -0 

108 9 

127-5 

118-1 

April 


112*2 

108-2 

111*4 

107-2 

111*0 

106*0 

125*8 

110-5 { 

May 

. . 

112-1 

107-8 

111*4 

107-0 

111*0 

106*5 

126-3 

116*0 j 

June 


113*7 

110-1 

112-7 

109-1 

112*1 

108-4 

126-9 

110-0 

July 

. . 

116*2 

114-1 

115*1 

113*2 

114*2 

112*2 

128*7 

110*2 

August 

.. 

117*9 

110*8 

116*0 

116*7 

115-0 

114-5 

127*4 

llb-0 

September 


118*0 

116*4 

116*0 

116*2 

116*4 

113*8 

124*0 

115*4 

October 

. . 

119*9 

119*7 

118*2 

119*2 

116*9 

110*7 

124-4 

116*2 

November 

. . 

120 -3 

120*4 

118-4 

118-4 

116*9 

116*6 

124 -3 

116*1 

Deoember 

* • 

117*0 

114-6 

116*3 

112*6 

114*1 

111*1 

122*9 

113-6 

1902 January 

•• 

114*4 

110*1 

1)2-8 

108*8 

112*1 

107*0 

123*2 

114*1 1 

Week ending 










3-3-02 

. . 

114*3 

109*8 

112*8 

107*8 

112*1 

106*6 

124*2 

116*0 

10-3 '02 

e • 

115*0 

111*1 

113*0 

109*2 

112*8 

108*2 

124-7 

115*5 

17-3-02 


116*0 

112*6 

114*5 

110*8 

113*7 

109*8 

B # 


24-3-02 

. . 

115*8 

112-2 

114*3 

110*4 

113*4 

109*2 


. . 

31 3.62 

. . 

115*6 

112*0 

114*1 

110*2 

113*3 

109*1 




•Revised eerie# (Base i 1902*08) end the corresponding oonverted eerie # . 


105 


SUPPLEMENT m THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 12, 1962 



CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 

H E BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR THE IMPROVE- 
MENT OF CALCUTTA 

[oticc under section 43 of the Calcutta Impronment 
Act, 1911 (Bengal Act V of 1911) 


Copies will be available on payment of the follow- 
ing fees: — 

Particulars and other information of the scheme 
-Re. 0.25 nP. 

Statement of lands proposed for acquisition or 
lor levy of betterment fee Re. 0.25 nP. 

Plan of the scheme area— Re. 1.00 nP. 


; C H£ME NO. LXXI11 (AREA BETWEEN PARK 
CIRCUS AND LINTON STREET) 


(4) Objections to the Scheme will be received up to 
2nd July 1962. 


j j S hereby notified under section 43 of the Calcutta 
improvement Act, 1911, that a General Improvement 
jeheme (to be known as Scheme .No. LXX1II) for the 
jurpose oi developing the area between Park Ciicus 
ind Linton Street by providing building sites, 
^motiving defective ventilation, creating new or 
improving existing means of communication and 
facilities lor traffic, affording better facilities for con- 
servancy and rehousing bustec-dwellers likely to be 
displaced, has been framed bv the Board of Trustees 
[or the Improvement of Calcutta in the above area 
Mthin Wards Nos. 55 and 57 of the Corporation of 
Calcutta. 


(5) Under section 6A of the Land Acquisition 
Act, 1894, as introduced by the Schedule to the 
Calcutta Improvement Act, 1911, as amended by the 
West Bengal Act XXXII of 1955, the publication of 
this notice shall have the same effect as the publica- 
tion of notification under section 4 of the Land 
Acquisition Act, 1894. 


Calcutta, 

Dated the 16th March 1962. 


K. SEN. 
Chairman. 


(2) The boundary of the area comprised in the 
heme, shown within red verge on plan, is as 

Hows: - 

On the North: Starting from the north-western 
corner of premises No. 55A, Beninpukur Road, 
running eastwards in a straight line to the noith- 
eastern corner of plot No. 35, C.T.T. Scheme 
No. XLIX. 

On the East: From this point running south- 
wards in a straight line to south-eastern corner, 
of plot No. 27. C.I.T. Scheme XLIX: from this 
point running south-westwards in a straight line 
to the south-eastern corner of premises No. 33C, 
Gorachand Road; from this point running south- 
westwards in a straight line to the south-eastern 
corner of plot No. 6, C. I. T. Scheme No. XXXV. 


SCHEME No. LXVII (BACHBAZAR STREET TO 
GALIFF STREET)- -REVISED 

1. The Board of Trustees for the Improvement 
of Calcutta, hereby give notice that Scheme 
No. LXVII which was first published under section 43 
of the Calcutta Improvement Act in the “Calcutta 
Gazette” on the 29th July 1954 and advertised in 
the newspaper has been revised under section 50 of 
the Calcutta Improvement Act and the following 
modifications have been made. Save as altered here- 
inafter the scheme as published under section 43 of 
the Calcutta Improvement Act as aforesaid shall 
remain in force. 

(a) The following properties which were scheduled 
for acquisition in Scheme No. LXVII are now 
excluded from acquisition: — 


On the South: From this point running west- 
wards in a straight line to the southern corner 
of premises No. 1 Surhawardy Avenue; iiom 
this point running westwards in a straight line 
to the south-western corner of premises No. 19], 
Park Street. 

On the West: From this point running north- 
westwards in a straight line to the south-western 
corner of premises Nos. 26A, B and C, North 
Range; from this point running northwards in a 
straight line to the starting point. 


• L Further particulars of the scheme, a plan show- 
’ ‘ e sc heme area and a statement of the lands 
, sec3 J or acquisition and for levy of betterment 
ay be inspected at the office of the Trust at 
_ a )i Subhas Road, Calcutta, between the hours 
* • and 3 p.m. on weekdavs and between hours 
ara * and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 


Name of Street and No. of Municipal Holdings. 
Gopal Mitra Lane — 5. 

Nandalal Bose Lane- 19, 21 A, 23. 


(b) The following properties which were scheduled 
for acquisition in Scheme No. LXVII are now 
excluded from acquisition but scheduled for levy of 
betterment fee under provisions of section 78A of 
the Calcutta Improvement Act: 


Name of Street and No. of Municipal Holdings. 

Durga Charan Mukherjee Street— 23, 23 /1 23 /2A 
23 '2B, 24 1 \ A, 24/ IB, 25/1 A. 25 MB,* 25 '1C 
25 ID, 25/IE, 25 /IF and 25/1G. 

Gopal Mitra Lane -4, 6A, 7A, 7B and 7C. 

Haralal Mitra Street- 19, 21 A, 21 B, 21 C, 21D, 
21E, 21F, 2 1 G, 21H, 21J, 21K, 2JL and 21 M. 

Nandalal Bose Lane— 25. 



SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AP&IL12, 1962 


(c) The following properties are scheduled for levy 
f betterment fee under the provisions of section 78A 
f the Calcutta Improvement Act due to the widening 
f a portion of Uma Charan Mitra Lane (old Harala 
litra Lane). 


Name of Street and No. of Municipal Holdings. 

Uma Charan Mitra Lane (Old Haralal Mitra 
Lane)— 1 A, IB, 2, 3A, 3B and 15. 


2. Particulars of the revision, the revised scheme 
lan and the list of properties excluded from 
cquisition and that of properties scheduled for levy 
if betterment fee under section 78A of the Calcutta 
mprovement Act, on account of this revision may 
ie inspected at the office of the Trust at 10 Netaji 
lubhas Road, Calcutta-!, on week days between 


11 a.m. and 1 p.m. and copies of such documents' 
may be obtained on payment of the following fee?:-. 

Particulars of the revised scheme — Re. 0.25 nP. 

Plan of the revised scheme— Re. 1.00 nP. 

Statement of land excluded from acquisition and 
that of land scheduled for levy of betterment 
fee on account of this revision— Re. 0.25 nP. 

3. Objections to the levy of betterment fee under 
section 78A of the Calcutta Improvement Act on 
account of this revision will be received up to 16tii 
July 1962. 

K. SEN, Chairman. 
Calcutta, the 23rd March 1962. 


suasss S2 



(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

w 

SI. Particulars of Debenture Loans. 

No. 

Amount invested 
during the year 
1960-61 under 
section 101 of 
the Act. 

Date of last 
investment. 

Aggregate 
Amount of 
securities held 
bv the Trustees 
(Fact' Value). 

Aggregate 
amount applied 
under section 
102 of the Act 
towards repay- 
ment of loans. 

Aggregate 
amount paid 
into the sinking 
funds up to the 
end of 19(30-61. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Its. 

L 4% C.I.T. Debenture Loon of 1934/ 
G4 for Its. 50 lakhs. 

1,18,823-90 

17th February, 
19G1. 

41.21,600 

Nil 

38,37,978-113- 
2,61,100-00 
(in sminlios). 

5 . 3i% C.I.T. Debenture Loan of 1935/ 

65 for Rs. 35 laklis. 

85,160-07 

6 th February, 
1961. 

29,44,700 

Nil 

27,23,771-774 
2. 12,7)00 -nit 
(in st'fump M 

h 3% C.I.T. Debenture Loan of 1936/ 
66 for Rs. 30 laklis. 

74,210-30 

JOtli March, 
1961. 

24,47,800 

Nil 

22, 32. 030 •;{(!' 

1 ,5 1 ,800 -Oil 
(in 

a qo/ c.I.T. Debenture Loan of 1937/ 
62 for Rs. 50 lakhs. 

1, 34.10S -55 

1 5th February, 
1961. 

49,50,900 

Nil 

44,1 8.300- SO j 
4, 1 5, 100*00 
(in seeuritio], 

k < 10 / n IT. Debenture Loan of 1938/ 

' 68 for Rs. 20 lakhs. 

54,402-75 

10th March, 
1961. 

18,10,800 

Nil 

] 0,00,314 MM 
1,40,000 0d 
( ji l st-rnrituM. 

3. 4% C.I.T. Debenture Loan of 1952/ 

62 for Rs. 80 lakhs. 

1,65,814-45 

29th December, 
1900. 

67,36,600 

Nil 

50,03,813 111- 
14, 4 2, 800 ■Od 

(in s<viinti<*4 


4 of c.I.T. Debenture Loan of 1956/ 

68 for Rs. 102 laklis. 

1,44,284-99 l Oth March, 

1961. 

38,52,700 

Nil 

L’lui-umn-uo 

( 111 s»’( uritiebj 

41 % c.I.T. Debenture Loan of 1958/ 

1 68 for Rs. 75 lakhs. 

2,86,670 • 47 8 th February. 
1961. 

1 K, SO, 600 

Nil 8,02. 4S5 • 58< 

9,00.000 ’00 
(in ,-»«*<• uritH 

4J% C.I.T. Debenture Loan of 1959/ 
74 for Rs. 65 laklis. 

Nil 16th November, 

1959. 

3 , 20,000 

Nil 

3.20,000 OO 
(in securities! 

Sd /- ILLEGIBLE, 

Accountant General, 

West Bengal. 

1-12-61. 



ILLEGIBLE 
Secretary, Govt, of V Vst 

Bengal, Finance Dept 1 . 

” 1-2-61. 



rfg/etwd No. C207 






TBA 22 ] THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1962 [ SAKA 1884 

£T IA— Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India; and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 
and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India’* are only 

republished. 

ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1962. 

NOTIFICATION 

No. 82/19/62. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (I) of 
section 86 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election 
Commission hereby publishes a copy of the Election Petition No. 19 of 
1962 presented to the Commission on the 2nd April 1962, under section 81 of 
the said Act, by Shri Jagannath Chatto (ah/Hs Jagannath Chattopadhyav), 

P.O. and village Deulpur, Elaka No. 3 Purbapara, police-station Panchla, 
district Howrah, calling in question the election to the Legislative Assembly 
of the State of West Bengal from the Panchla Constituency, of 
Shri Apurbalal Mazumdar, (No. P.114, Beneras Road, Belgachia, P.O. 

Dasnagar, district Howrah. 

Citation Petition No. 19 of 1902 

BEFORE THE ELECTION COMMISSION, NEW DELHI 

In the matter of an election petition under the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 

And 

♦ In the matter of purported election for the Panchla 
Legislative Assembly Constituency, Howrah, 

West Bengal, held on the 19th day of 
I'ebruary 1962 

And 

In the matter of Jagannath Chatto ( alia* 

Jagannath Chattopadhyay), residing at P.O. 
and village Deulpur. Elaka No. 3 Purbapara, 
police-station Panchla, district Howrah, 

Petitioner 

versus 

(1) Apurbalal Mazumdar, residing at No. P.114, 

.Beneras Road, Belgachia, P.O. Dasnagar in 
the district of Howrah, 

(2) Manilal Basu, residing at No. 13, Debi Mandir 
Lane, Lillooah in the district of Howrah and 

(3) Sushil Bandyopadhyaya, residing at No. 19, 

Hem Banerjee lime, Sibpur, Howrah, 

Beappndeuts. 


48 


TtfE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 12, 1962 


The humble petition of the abovenained petitioner 
Mont respectfully sheweth : 


[Pam 14 


1. Your petitioner is a citizen of India and a person whose age was 
at all material times more than 25 years. Your petitioner is an elector as 
defined in clause (e) of section 2 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951 (hereinafter referred to as “the said Act”) and is not subject to any 
of the disqualifications mentioned in section 16 of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1950. Your petitioner’s name is entered as Serial No. 208 in 
Part No. 102 in the electoral roll of the No. 146, Panchla Legislative 
Assembly Constituency in West Bengal. 


2. On the 19th day of February 1962 the general election of the matter 
of the State Legislature from the Panchla Legislative Assembly Constituency 
to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly took place. 


3. The names of the abovenamed Respondents were included in the 
relative or appropriate electoral roll as electors. 


4. The Respondents were candidates for election as a member of the 
West Bengal Legislative Assembly from the said Constituency. The symbols 
chosen by and allotted to the Re^pondonls under the Conduct of Election 
Rules, 1961, framed in exercise of the powers conferred by section 169 of the 
said Act, were as mentioned hereunder: — 


Respondent 'No. 1 — Lion. 

Respondent No. 2 — Two bullocks with yoke on. 
Respondent No. 3 — Star. 


5. On the 27th day of February 1962 the Returning Officer of the said 
constituency declared the result of the said election and 
returned the Respondent No. J as duly elected. In the return 
of election and in the final result sheet, 17,886 valid votes were shown to 
have been polled in favour of the Respondent No. 1, 17,867 in favour of the 
Respondent No. 2, and 1,255 in favour of the Respondent 'No. 3. The 
Respondent No. 1 purported to secure 19 votes more than those cast in favour 
of the Respondent No. 2. 


6. Your petitioner states that the purported election of the Respondent 
No. 1 is void, and liable to be set aside inter alia on* (he ground that the 
result of the said election, in so far as it concerned the Respondent No. 1 
has been materially affected by the improper reception of some votes and/or 
(he reception of votes which are void: — 


Particulars 


(a) The list of tendered votes in Form 15 prescribed by the Conduct of 
Election Rules, 1961, shows that some persons had posed themselves to be 
the real electors and personating the latter had cast voted, for which 41 
tendered votes of the real electors had not been or could not be counted for 
ascertainment ai*d declaration of the result of the election. The said 41 
bona fide electors, your petitioner understands and believes, have cast their 
votes in favour of the Respondent No. 2. 

(b) As far as your petitioner has been able to discover some persons had 
also personated for at least 18 dead electors and had purported to cast votes 
falsely representing themselves to be the voters on the electoral roll. Such 
votes your petitioner understands and believes have been cast in favour of 


Part LA.] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 12, 1962 


49 


the Respondent No. 1. The names of the said dead voters and their serial 
number in the electoral roll are mentioned hereunder: — 


Part No. 

Serial No. 

Name of Voter. 

139 

95 

Aclia Hoque Porey. 

139 

737 

Laksinan Porel. 

139 

818 

Sannyasi Barik. 

139 

866 

Saraswati Dasi. 

154 

1091 

Pear Ali Mullick. 

148 

541 

Jabed Sliaik. 

148 

1157 

Kadharani Audliicary. 

155 

589 

Bhola Mondal. 

155 

152 

Kali Cliaran Seat. 

156 

735 

Sivaram Qhosh. 

155 

913 

Sudbir Chouley. 

84 

1027 

Hochen Box. 

83 

317 

Hachena Bibi. 

79 

179 

Isuf Ali. 

90 

563 

Majid Sliaik. 

121 

144 

Amir Shaikh. 

121 

156 

Yead Aii Mullick. 

121 

357 

Joynal Mullick. 


Tour petitioner craves leave for discovery and inspection of the said list of 
rendered votes for this purpose, and will thereafter furnish further 
particulars in this behalf. 

7. In the premises your petitioner states that the Respondent No. 2 had 
in fact received a majority of tho valid votes, and .that but for the votes 
obtained by the Respondent No. 1 due to false personation by his supporters 
as stated above the Respondent No. 2 would have obtained a majority of the 
valid votes. 

8. On the 27th day of March 1962 your petitioner has deposited in 
accordance with the provisions of section 117 of the said Act Rs. 2,0(10 in 
the Government Treasury at Jlowrah in favour of the Election Commission 
as security for costs of this petition. The relative treasury receipt for the 
said sum is annexed hereto in original. 

Your petitioner therefore prays that it be determined and declaied 
that the Respondent No. 1 Apurhalal Mazumdar was not duly elected 
or returned and that his election and return were and are wholly 
void, and that Respondent No. 2 the said Manilal Basu was duly 
elected and out to have been returned. 

And your petitioner, as in duty bound, shall ever pray. 

Verification 

I, Jagannath Chatoo alias Jagannath Chattopadhyay, the petitioner 
abovenamed do hereby declare that the statements contained in paragraphs 
1 to 5 and 8 of the foregoing petition are true to my knowledge, those 
contained in paragraph 6 [except .the particulars in clauses (a) and (b) 
thereof] and 7 are submissions and those in clauses (a) and (b) of paragraph 
6 above are true to my belief. 

I sign this verification at P.O. and village lleulpur, district How all, 
on the 30th day of March 1962. 

JAGANNATH CHATTO 
(alias Jagannath Chattopadhyay). 


By Order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 



i fgtsttnd Mo. C207 


(Calrutta 



AITRA 22] 


THURSDAY, APRIL 12, j 962 


PART IB. Educational Notices 


[SARA 1884 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 

BfcNGAL ENGINEERING COLLEGE 

P.O. Botanic Garden, Howrah 

1HE Bengal Engineering College will 0D en next 
session on July 2, 1962. The College is a ScnS 
anc and offers courses for the B.E. Degree Exa n no 
ion of the Calcutta University in Civil vi',„u d " in 1 

tion Engineering and also for the Degree hi 
Architecture. Admission will be grants t, 1 
esults of an admission test consisting of a written 

?S"BiLl‘'l, Can , did , a, | s 10 “ 

sim tn Fnrr ga - Bod £ d of Examination for A '’mis- 

ris-re ,ssv s a s£r,j& 

«'£'• A PP Uca 0on=> must be 3. i ‘S= 

XV ,T?| ed P “''' Ordt 

“ te 3 t *' LL‘ R /- f 1 “S”S «he regtsm- 
«h College to which ad£d«i? U * Rs ‘ 6 .Payable to 
the “West Bengal Rn^fc 0 ” 1S sou § ht > payable 
ion to Engineering rJu of ., Exa mination for admis- 

'ttiee of the Board 8 c/rPlP 5 i^ shouJd ''each the 
’0 Botanir r a c /° Bengal Engineering College 

S. l^The Col 1 !^ ?° Wrah ’ ° n ° r before ApS 
plication forms mav 8 h<. P ni!f’ Ct j S - and requisite 
ffice either rlcll m ?, y be obtained from the college 

°® 26th March 196 ? a 10 , x4 i s *ze on and 
,d stipends will be ^wa^ded* to schaIarshi P s 

en,s on the a yarded to meritorious 

'^tio- w of the Admission Test. 

,,vV r '?ho h F,ve *year mtegrated degree 

ir -:,t v , v ,n npw regulations of the Calcutta 

“ ' packed TST* fr ° m . candidat «s who 

M ■' ®PP«r this year in the 


versiiy or ft e HhhTsecnZ °' ^ Calcutta Uni- 
Science strean, S the TeH ry - E f amination in the 
Board of Secondly Educating Str u eam the 
Physics, Chemistry and ' West Bengal, with 
valent. The selection of ^thematic* or its equi- 
appeared in either oi thecl^ candidates who have 
will however be subiect tn liy ‘" g exaill!1 ations 
nations this year Candid PaSS “ 8 these exami- 
19 years of age on MoS® tT* bc -? vcr 

®ny be relaxed up to 21 year's with th The . age " mit 
val of the Governmen/i' n ^ th the pnor a PP r °- 
applicants belonging to thf o* 6 Case of deserving 
classes and communities F,f r rh Cat, , 0nal,y backward 
admission, number of seats £ e 8 ardin K 

examination syllabus D ™L n different branches, 
the prospectus. P 8 m ®e, cfc. are given in 

Dates of Admission Test 

Monday, May 21, 1962— 

da?es)° 1 P-®-— Mathematics (for all candi- 

3 P Wrif?ng 5 jff" dfc 8 andMat 0 eT Siti0n ^ ^ 

Tuesday, May 22, 1962— 

12-30^.171° 1 to n ^OO ^m 1 C ^€h° r 31 1 candidates )- 
candidates). ° P®-— Chemistry (f or all 

Wednesday, May 23, 1962— 

10 SoJe° L P did^ re ^ I y ) and Drawifl g fArchi 



-i mistered No. C207 



(Ualnttta 







vacancy. One post (for Applied Mechanics) reserved foi 
Scheduled Tribes candidate ii such suitable candidate is 
available otherwise all posts treated unreserved. P^f! 
Its. 350—350 — 380 — 380 — 110 — 590— K B.— 30-7 <(>--10— bod 
(subject to revision in the light of l’ay (loromiss on s 
recommendations). Higher initial pay to specially qua) bed 
and experienced candidates. Age i— 35 years and below. 
Qualifications: Essential i—(i) Degree in Mechanical BnRi- 
neering preferably in first class, (Heat Engines/ Hydraulics, 
or Engineering Drawing and Design or Applied Mechanics) 
of recognised University or equivalent, (u) About three 
vears’ protessioiml and teaching expenenco. Professional 
"experience may be waived in the case of those who possess 
a post-graduate qualification or research experience. 

i. One Lecturer in History, Indian Aid Mission, Nepal 
(Ministry of External Affairs). Post temporary and the 
period of appointment will be two years in the first 
instance. Pay:-Ks. 326-80-425 - 25-575 plus Nepal 
allowance of Hs. 230 per month il married, otherwise 
Its 155 per month. Higher initial pay to specially 
qualified and experienced candidate. Aget— 35 years and 
below. Qualifications: Essential:— (i) At least second 
Hhbs Master's or equivalent Honours Degree in History ol 
a recognised University, (ii) About live years’ experience 
of teaching Post-graduate elasses. 

r, Three maintenance vacancies in Grade I, of the 
Central Information Servloe, Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting. Posts temporary, but likely to become 
permanent. One post reserved for Seheduled Castes and 
another for Scheduled Tribes candidates, if such suitable 
candidates available, otherwise they will be treated as 
unreserved. Candidates possessing the prescribed quail - 
tications will be required to sit for a written test to be 
Held at Delhi /New Delhi, the scheme of which will he as 
follows: — 


fa) Part l 

Huhjeets. 

0) General Knowledge of Current Affairs 
(ii) One paper to test the professional com- 
petence ol the candidate 
(m) One paper on Indian History and Culture 
(iv) One paper oil an Indian language 


Marks. 

1(H) 

... 160 
... i50 

.. 100 


(b) Part II 

A personality test for such candidates as may ntt a i n 
minimum standard (to be prescribed at the diso^ 
tion of the Commission) in the written test tor | M » m 
called for interview, carrying 200 marks. 

N0t6 1 — Candidates will lie arranged in order oj , ne , 
as disclosed by the aggregate marks finally iiuanl,, 
to each candidate. 


pay : — Its. 350 — 25 — 600 — 30 — 590 — E.B. — 30 800. H ii/hi 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candid^ 
AgO: — Candidates should have attained the age of 25 ye a 
but must not have attained the age of 30 years on Julj 
1962. Qualifications: Essential:— (U Degree ol a lvco 
nised University, (ii) At least three years’ jourmi!^ 
experience in a newspaper or news agency or public 
organisation of standing. 


7. Four Listener Research Offioers, All India Radii 
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Posts tm 
porary but likely to continue indefinitely. One j*, 
reserved for Scheduled Tribes candidate, if such suitah 
candidate available, otherwise all the posts treated i 
unreserved. Pay* — Its. 530— 30 830 35 900 Agd;-~ 

y ears and below. Qualifications: Essential s— (i) At \ n 
a second class degree of a recognised University, pieiorah 
with Sociology, Psychology, Economics, Anthropoid 
Statistics as a subject, (ii) About three years’ cx|wrn'!i, 
of collection and analysis of Social Statistics, uiclmlu 
public opinion polls and/or social service research /ma 


8. One Director (Soil Conservation), Central water ai 
Power Commission (Water Wing). Post temporary b 
likely to continue. Pay:- — Hs. L300-- 00 —1 ,(>U0. Iligh 

ini» i\l pay to specially qualified and experienced i*.*ndidai 
Age:— Between 35 and 50 years. Qualifications: Esse 
tiai: — (i) Diploma in Superioi Forest Service Uouisc 
Debra Dun. (Or) Degree m Forestry oi (’imI Fnginciri, 
ol recognised University or equivalent (ii) A hunt l 
years’ experience in a responsible capacity ol which aim 
five years should be. in afforestation woik on soil const 
vation projects or m soil conservation engineerin''. 


500 


(b) Part II 

A personality test tor such candidates as may attain a 
minimum’ standard (to be prescribed at the discretion 
of the Commission) in the written test for being 
culled for interview, carrying 200 marks. 

Note: — Candidates will he arranged in order of merit as 
disclosed b.v the aggregate marks finally awarded to 
each candidate. 

Pay: -Hr. 700— 40— 1,100— 50/2—' 1,250. Higher initial pav 
to specially qualified and experienced candidates. Age:- 
Candidates should have attained xhe age of 27 years but 
must not have attained the age of 35 years on fluly 1, 1902. 
Qualifications: Essential:— (i) Degree of a recognised 
university, (ii) At least five years’ experience in a respon- 
sible capacity in a newspaper, news agency or publicity 
organisation of standing. 

6 . Three posts in Grade III of the Central Information 
Service, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Posts 
temporary, hut likely to continue indefinitely. One post 
reserved for Scheduled Castes and another for Scheduled 
Tribes candidates if such suitable candidates available, 
otherwise they will be treated as unreserved. Candidates 
possessing the proscribed qualifications will be required to 
sit for a written test fo be held at Delhi /New Delhi, the 
scheme of which will he as follows*- — 

(a) Part l 

Subjects. 

<i) Current Affairs 

(ii) Translation from English to an Indian 
language 

iiii) Translation from an Indian language to 
English 

(iv) Essay in the Indian Language concerned 
(v) Indian Hislorv and Culture 


Marks. 

... ion 

... 50 

r.n 

... loo 
... 100 

400 


9 Assistant Soil Chemist in the Division of Soil Scion 
and Agricultural Chemistry, Indian Agricultural Researi 
Institute. Post temporary hut likHv to continue l J u 
reserved for Seheduled Tribes candidate if suc-li smtiili 
candidate available; otherwise treated as unroscived Pa] 
Hs. 350—25— 5(H)— 30- 590— E B — 30 - -800- K Ii 
830 - 35 — 900 Higher initial pay to specially qualified ail 

experienced candidate. Age:- 015 veins and below Qu3l 
fications: Essential: — (i) Master’s degree in ( lieinisi r\ i 
Soil Science or Agricultural Chemistry or Agi leiiliure »ui 
specialisation in Soil Science/ Agriculture oi AssoniiirM 
of I A.R.I. in Soil Science and Agricultural Um'imstr, 
(ii) About two years’ experience ol research wmk <»n mu 
and fertilizers as evidenced by published papers 


10. Professor of Microbiology, Division of Microbiolog 
Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi. [«» 

temporary, but likely to eontiime. Pay: Hs 9(H) 
1,250. Ilighei initial pay to specially qualified ■» 
experienced candidate. Age: — 45 years and below V 
fications : Essential:— (i) Master’s degree in ' 

Botany or Agriculture with specialisation m Alien) hi* i 
or in Microbiology, or Assoeinteship ol UAH' i» * 
biology, (ii) An outstanding record o] original resci 
Microbiology and also experience of post-gradual »* 
over a period of about ten years. 


11. Two Conciliation Officers, Labour Commission" 
ffice, Delhi Admlnlatratlon, Delhi. Om* post i"" 

it appointment, will be on temporary 
iciincv ; the other post temporav hut likely to . 
id be made permanent. TostH reserved lot . ' 
astes/Tribos candidate; ii no such mil" •' ‘ ‘ 
nailable, both the posts will be treated as 
ay:— H r. 590— 30-830—35- 900. Higher 

leeittllv qualified and experienced earKlula es- , 

pars and below. Qualifications: Essential: m r S<Ki 

recognised University, preferably in Ec<>nm . Vr or k in 
ciences. (ii) Successful training m s,K ‘ ,a 0 f s«H 

cognised Institution such as the Tata Inst oth 

eiences or the Kashi Vidyapitli, Banaias ^ t j,r 

.-.in..*: TTniv^rnities. U 11 ' ' 



P** T tf] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 12, 1962 


15H 


8 > experience in labour problems in a responsible capa- 
in a Government establishment or in industry or in a 
[|Sde union organisation. 

io two Medical Assistants, central Retearoh Institute, 

tfslliulit Ministry Of Health. Posts permanent, but appoint- 
will be made on temporary basis. Pay: — Rs. 3G0— 
^500—30 — 590 — E. B. — 30 — 800 — E .B . — 30 — 830 — 35 — 900 
f^Tkind of private practice including laboratory practice 
*7 admissible. Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
nd experienced candidates. Age: — 35 years and below. 
Salification* i Eaaantlali — (i) A Medical qualification 

/other than licentiate qualifications) included in the First 
r Sec° ,ld Schedule or Part II ot Third Schedule to the 
Indum Medical Council Act, 1950. [Persons possessing 
aglifications included in Part 11 ok Third Schedule should 
Vq f u jfil the conditions relating to registration laid dowu 
\ Section 13(3) of the Act.] (ii) Training and/or research 
Jgpenence in Bacteriology and Pathology. 

; y) One Lecturer in Pharmacology, Medical College, 
•ondioherry, under the Ministry of Health. Post perma- 
nent. Post reserved for Scheduled Gustos /Scheduled Tribes 
candidate, but if no such suitable candidate available, will 
to treated as unreserved. Pay: — Rs. 530 — 30 — 050, plus 
non-practising allowance of 25 per cent, of pay subject to 
a minimum of Rs. 150 per month and a maximum of 
Rs 400 per month. No private practice or private tuition 
ot any kind will be allowed. Higher intial pay to specially 
Qualified and experienced candidate. Age: — 45 years and 
below. Qualifications: Essential: — (i) Medical qualification 
(other than licentiate qualifications) included in 
ibe First or Second Schedule or Part 11 oi r l*hiid 
Schedule to the Indian Medical Gouneil Act, 1950. 
(u) Post-graduate / Research Degree or Diploma — M.D., 
Fli.J). D.Sc., in Pharmacology, or M.D. in Medicine or 
M.r/'.P*, with Pharmacology as special subject, (iii) 
Teaching experience as Demonstrator in Pharmacology or 
Medicine lor about three years in a Medical College. 


14. Two Leoturers (in Senior Scale) in Civil Engineering 
-one each for Communication and Drawing and Design, for 
the Delhi Polytechnic, Ministry of Scientific Researoh and 
Cultural Affairs. Posts temporary. Pay: Rs. 350 — 350— 
J8l)_4lHO— 30--590 -KB- -30—770 ‘40—850 (subject to u-vi- 
lion in the light of Pay Commission's recommendations), 
iigher initial pay to specially qualified iwid experienced 
jondidntes. Age: 35 years and below. Qualifications: 
Essential: (i) Degree, preferably in first class, in Civil 
Kngimwnng (Communication or Drawing and Design) of 
ecofinisod University or equivalent, (ii) About three 
ews’ professional and teaching experience. Professional 
vpeneuee may he waived in (he case of those who possess 
postgraduate qualification oi research experience. 


In Junior Planner in the Central Regional and Urban 
tanning Organisation, Ministry of Health. Post tempo- 
ar .v ' but likely to continue indefinitely. Post reserved 
irstly lor scheduled castes candidate, and secondly for a 
wteduled Tribes candidate, il such suitable candidates 
Mutable, otherwise post treated as unreserved. Pay: 
s .m_ 25— 500 - 30— .m -KB- -4 M) — 800 — EB — 30 — 830 — 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
ttpprmiKvd candidate. Age: 35 years and below, 
iuailfications: Essential: (i) Master’s or equivalent 
onours Degree in Economics or Commerce of a recognised 
Hi) Knowledge /experience of statistical 
‘ . ‘V Hieir application to social and economic pheno- 
!Da m India. 


L2L #l ! r * Mistarlt Parasitologist*, Indian Agricultural 
ten ^ < * ns M ,| t*» New Delhi. Posts temporary. Posts 
ndifL 01 Se * u \ d,ded Cast ‘s candidates, if such suitable 
tervnii S n llvui a otherwise all posts treated as un- 
ff *?*'• 350 — 25 — 500 — 30 — 590 — EB — 30 — 800 — 

lalifu.i , , ^ Higher initial pay to specially 
'low ft»aiL 0X r, tir,encGd candidates. Age: 35 years and 
tel y ual, fi® a t ons: Essential: For one post: (i) Marter’s 
e v Or \f • AK , r !°! llt,lire Wlt)l specialisation in Plant Patho- 
WoJv 7 x?! 0gy i?.°. r Associat ^ip of I.A.R.I., in Plant 
ith PIiL ii T c t roblalo sy ; 0r Master’s degree in Botany 
*rs’ re JJ * “bhology as one of the subjects, (ii) Two 
f inserK ^ 10 * 1 experience in the disease causing organism 
*sti: (|\ . s evidenced by published papers. For three 
Zoo, °^ or Agriculture with 
>8ociate R hii \ n r f^tomology, or in Entomology, oi 

sxi,,. i "i I -' A ' E ' 1 '’ E n to mol °8y- <«) About tw< 
i leiioe m research work on parasitic. 


17. 8tatlstioai Officer (industries), Tripura Administra- 

tion, Agartala. Post temporary, but likely to continue. 
Other things being equal, Scheduled Castes /Tribes candi- 
date will be preferred. Pay: Rs. 200- 10-— 420—15 — 150. 
Higher initial pay to spmally qualified and experienced 
candidate. Age: 35 \ ears and below. Qualifications: 

Essential: (i) Degree of a recognised University with 
Economics, Statistics or Mathematics as a special subject 
and post-graduate training at a recognised Statistical Insti- 
tute. Or Master’s or equivalent Honours degree in 
Statistics or Mathematics/ Economics (with Statistics) of a 
recognised University, (ii) Should he able to icad, write 
and speak Bengali. 

18. One Assistant Director in the National Buildings 
Organisation, Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply. 

Post temporary but likely to continue indefinite!}. Post 
reserved for Scheduled Tribes/ Castes candidate if such 
suitable candidate is available failing which treated as un- 
reserved. Pay: Rs. .350 - 25 -500— 30— 590- KB- 30 -800 
— EB — 3D— 830 -.‘15 — 900. Higher initial pay to specially 
qualified and experienced candidate. Age: .30 years and 
below. Qualifications: Essential: (|) Degree m Civil Engi- 
neering of recognised University or equivalent ui) About 
three years’ experience as Civil Engineer. 

19. MicrobiologiBt (Algae), Division of Microbiology, 
Indian Agricultural Researoh Institute, New Delhi. Post 
temporary ? but likely to continue. Pay: Rs. 700—50 - 1,250. 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate. Age: 45 years and below. Qualifications: 
Essential: (i) Master’s degree in Botany or Chemistry or 
Biochemistry or Agricultural Chemistry or Agriculture with 
specialisation in Agricultural Chemist ly nt lecogmsed 
University, or Associates! ip ot I.A.R.I. in Soil Science and 
Agricultural Chemistry. ( ii ) About seven years’ research 
experience in Algae preferably wiib special icfcrcnce to 
liitrogeiimetabolism of blue yreen algae evidenced bv pub 
lished papers. ( 1 1 1 ) Knowledge of model n methods of 
investigations and evidence of capability to initiate and 
guide research. 

20. One Executive Officer, Directorate General of 
Shipping, Bombay, Ministry of Transport and Communica- 
tions. Dost temporun. but likely to continue. Post 
reserved for Scheduled Castes/'l i ibex candidate. Applica- 
tions invited from Sohet’uled Castes /Tribes candidates only. 
Pay: Rs. 5 < .K> — 30 — 830 35 900. Higher initial pay to 
specially qualified and ex| crienml candidate. Agi: 35 years 
and below. Qualifications; Essential: (i) Degree of a 
recognised University. ( 1 1 > About three years’ experience 
in a responsible capacity in a Government office. shipping 
company, or a mercantile firm. 

21. Educational Adviser in the Films Division, Ministry 
or Information and Broadcasting. Post temporary, hut 
likely to continue. Pay: Rs. 530 -30 830- .35 900, 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate. Ag6: 45 wars and below. Qualifications: 
Essential: (i) Master’s or equivalent Honours Degree of a 
recognised University, (ii) About three years’ experience 
of teaching and/or educational administration, f iii) 
Training and/oi experience in t h<* field of ;iu amlin-visu.d 
education, preferably in the production and use of films 
and film strips. Or Experience of dramatics, including 
writing and/or producthm of pin vs. ( i v > Sound knowledge 
of at least one Indian language. 

22. Assistant Public Relations Officer, Armed Forces 
Information Offioe, Ministry of Defence* Post temporary 
but likely to continue indefinitely. Pay: Rs. 350 — 25— 50*0 
— 30 — 590 — KB- 30 — 800 (initial pay of Rs. 375 per month 
for a person with three \ ears’ journalistic experience). 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and exnereneed 
candidate. Age: Between 25 and 35 years. Qualifications: 
Essential: (i) Degree of a recognised University, (ii) 
About three years’ experience in journalism on a newspaper 
or news agency, and/or publicity /public relations wrtrk 
under Government or any organisation of standing. 

23. Deputy Registrar, Co-operative Societies (Civil 
Supplies), Himaotial Pradesh Administration. Post tempo- 
rary, but likely to become permanent. Other things being 
equal, Scheduled Tribes /Castes candidate will be preferred. 
Pay : Rs. 250—25 — 300—30 — 5 1 ( ) — 3(1— 600 — 40— 8( )() — 50 — 
8f>0. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. Age: .‘15 years and below. 


152 


THE CALCUTTA QAZETTE, APRIL 12, 1962 


L^ARt [| 


Relaxable lor Government servants up to five years. 
Qualifications: Essential: (i) Degree of a recognised 
University. (ii) About live years’ experience m a 
responsible post m Co-operative and/or ( vil Supplies 
Department under Government. 

24. Two Senior Technical Officers (Aero Engine*) in the 
Researoh and Development Organisation, Ministry or 
Defence. Post temporary but likely to become permanent. 
Other things being equal Scheduled Castes/ Tribes candi- 
dates would be preleir»‘d. Pays—Rs. 700 — 50-*- 1,250. 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidates. Age: — 40 veuis and below. Qualifications: 
Essential: — (i) Master’s degiee or preferably a Doctorate 
degree, in Aeronautical oi Mechanical Engineering oi 
equivalent qualifications, ui) At least three years’ experi- 
ence in research, design and development of jet engiues / 
propulsion systems in ge neral. 

25. One Medical Officer (Lady Doctor) for M.l. Room 
and Hospital at Pawal, Bombay, Minstry of Defence. tVu 

temporary but likely to contmue and be retained on perma- 
nent basis. Pay:— Us. .12 V- 25 — 500 -30 — 590 — K. B .— HU — 
800 plus 25 per cent, oi pay as non-practising allowance. 
Private practice of any kind will not be allowed. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age: — 40 years and below. Qualifications: Essential: — 
(i) A Medical qualification included in the First or Second 
Schedule or Part 11 oi Third Schedule Lo the Indian Medi- 
cal Council Act, i05(>. [Persons possessing qualifications 
included in Part II ol Third Schedule should also fulfil tin 
conditions relating to registration specified in Section 1H(3 > 
of the Act.] (ii) Diploma m Gynaecology and Obstetrics. 


Corrigendum 

Reoruitment of Deputy Dairy Development Adviser, 
Ministry of Food and Agriculture. In partial modification 
of Commission’s Advertisement No. 7, item No. 12, pub- 
lished on ,17th February P)(»2, it is notified lor general 
information that the age is relaxable for permanent Govern- 
ment servants. Other conditions remain unchanged. 
Closing date extended to 23rd April 1IW>2. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 

General instructions to candidates applying in response to 
advertisements issued by the Commission for reoruit- 
ment to posts of “8elsotlon M , 

(1) Instructions regarding submission of applloatlon. - 

Applications are to be made on the prescribed farm which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor). 
Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a large self- 
addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to cover the 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 
copies of the prescribed form may apply on any similar 
typed (not handwritten) term showing exactly the word- 
ing »nd spacing of the sample form published in the 
“Calcutta Gazette” of the 1st September 1955, provided 
the blanks are filled ud in the candidates’ own handwriting. 

(2) Particulars and certificates required.— Candidates 

should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testitying to their private 
character. 

TTie Commission accepts only the age of a candidate as 
recorded m the Matriculation or the Secondary School 
Final/Leaving Certificate. In the case of a lemale candi- 
date whose age is not recorded in the Matriculation or 
School Final Certificate, any of the following evidence of 
age is accepted by the Commission: — 

1. A certificate irom the Headmistress of the school. 

which she last attended, showing her exact age as 
recorded in the school register, 

2. An affidavit regarding her age sworn by her father 

or mother or some other person in a position to 
know by having been present or heard or her birth 
at the time of occurrence. * 


3. A certificate regarding her age, from a Member * 
the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who* 
have known the candidate and her family, indul? 
ing clearly the evidence on the basis of which h 
she satisfied himself / herself on the point. 

(3) Pee.- Candidates must enclose with their apolir. 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 in the form of a receipted etial 
from a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of 
under the head “XXXVI- -Miscellaneous — Receipts of thl 
Public Service Commission. West Bengal”. Money crdeiv 
cheques, etc., in lieu of treasury challans me not aocpnnj' 
Postal order, however, may be accepted from candidate* 
They should be crossed and made payable to “The Soor* 
tary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal”. No apuh 
ration will be considered unless accompanied with th« 
requisite application fee. 

Candidates abroad may deposit their application fa. 
with the High Commissioner of India or the Embassy 
the case may be, and obtain receipts tor the same which 
will have to be attached to their applications to be 8 „k 
nutted to the Commission. 

Candidates in Government service should make jum 
before depositing fee that their applications will be forward, 
ed by their superior officers. In no case will the fee paid 
with the application be refunded. 

The Commission may remit fee in case of genumel , 
indigent and bona fide displaced person from •tfakistan. 

An indigent displaced person shall, in the first instance 
pay the application fee prescribed for a gazetted post 
advertised by the Commission but if he /she is selected for 
and appears at the interview, the fee paid by bun /her will 
he refunded afterwards. 

Note. — “(i) A uisplaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evident 
that he is bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, e.g 
relugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member oi Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original. 

(ji) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his apph- 
cation a certificate in original from a gazetted officer or « 
Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging to 
the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 

(lii) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion fee must furnish besides the evidence required under 
Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a posithm to 
pay the prescribed fee.” 

(4) Address.— Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 

(5) Canvassing. — Any attempt on the part of candidate* 
to enlist euppoi t of their applications throng!) persons oi 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment Spontaneous recommendation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise know: 
to them will be disregarded. 

(6) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under aaiy Government, a w* 
or Statutory Body («.g., Damodar Valley Corporation),* 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted througi 
the appointing authority of their posts or service 

Candidates Rerving under Government or a 
Statutory Body should submit an advance copy m the p 
oribed form. The application fee should in such c * se *L 
attached to the advance copy and not to the original, 
candidature of such applicants may not however he h 
sidered if the original applications do not reach th* 1 n 
mission’s office within a fortnight from the dosing 
Unless applications in original or advance 
application fees are received within the closing da » l 
applications may be rejected. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary. 

Public Service Commission, West Bs B « l 

Alipore, the 27th January 196l. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 12, 1962 


153 


P A *T II] 



Advertisement No. 18 


i A pp i, [NATIONS are invited from Indian citizens for the 
| 0 |W in £ posts:— 

i } One History Master, Victoria Boys’ School, 
rurssong’ ln the West Bengal General Service (Education). 

> t permanent. Women unsuitable. Pay: -Rs. 325 — 30— 

.000 per month. Free furnished quarters will 
" vided, occupier’s share of municipal tax ami charges 
electric current consumed payable by the incumbent. 

Qualifications: Essential — (i) A second class Master’s or 
.J* olir K degree in History; (ii) A degree in Teaching or 
iV]iicati°n or equivalent foreign qualification; (iii) Fiv« 
Ipars’ experience as a teacher in Secondary Schools, prefer- 
l| v , n residential institutions. Desirable — Ability 10 
| an isf and conduct extra-curricular activities like 
luting, scouting, etc. Age: — Not more than 30 years on 
1st April 1902, rolaxable in the case of a highly 
i ua l,fied candidate and for a person holding substantive 
[ppointment in the Education Department, West Bengal. 

(h) One Superintendent, Boot, 8hoe and Leather Goods 
liking at the College of Leather Technology, Calcutta. 

>ost temporary. Pay:~.Rs. 300—30 — IKK) (E.B. after 8th 
jid Kit-h stages) per month plus house rent allowance a* 
(dinissiblo under the rules. Higher initial pay up to 
| s [50 may he granted, according to qualifications and 
sperirnto, to persons not already in Government service. 

Qualifications: Essential — (i) A diploma or its equivalent 
n Leather Technology of a recognised Institute, Or, A 
lppm> in Leather Technology of a recognised University ; 
iii Experience in Boot. Shoe and Leather Goods mnnulae- 
orc ; (iii) Administrative ability. Desirable — (i) Certifi- 
ate fi om Borough Education Commit lee, Northampton, 
England: (ii) Experience in training of students. Age: — 
frdin.mlv not more than 35 years on the 1st April 1902 
disable in the case of candidates otherwise well qualified 
ml experienced and for permanent Government servants. 

(r> Eighteen Veterinary Assistant Surgeons in the West 
taigai Subordinate Veterinary Service, Class l|. Posts 
pmpnrnrv. Three* posts arc' reserved for Scheduled Oa*tc 
tml one post is reserved for Scheduled Tribe candidates. 
hi: Ks. 200— 10— 1()0 (E.B. after 10th stage) per month 
[lus allowance's as admissible under the rules. Higher 
pitial pay of Its, 2^50 per month in the seale is admissible 

> the candidates possessing a degiee in Veterinary 
nonce. 

Qualifications: -<i) A dene** or diploma in Veterinnrv 
fionrc ot a recognised University or Institution, or 
pnvalen t rpialifica t ion , (ii) Knowledge of Bengali— 
wkcii and written, except in case of hillmen who should 
we knowledge of Nepali - spoken and written. Age.* — 
ot more than 28 years on the 1st. January 1902. 


Age concession 

Tlic ago limit tor nil the posts is rolaxable by live years 
|r Schod nled Castes /Tribes and up to 15 years for 
^plaeerl persons from Pakistan. 


( f, 'Uuh(late who before the 15tb August- 1947 was 
Pained imprisoned. interned or c\l«*rncd on aceount 
ms her activities in connection with the country’s 
ueglo I oi independence, not being convicted of an 
h nre ln <lba f Mig moral turpitude, shall hr* entitled to a 
r .^ ss ' 0M . i 'f 11 respect of the age limit The concession 
toniL l)t ‘. or l ,,a ^ period of detention, 

ht;»! inn,n< internment or externment suffered up to a 
• ximuin of Jo,ir years. 


hill! y ( \ ferret a rv with n Treasurv durian of Rs. 5 
XXX VI — Miscellaneous — Receipts of Public 

1 ep f ^ '^mission. West- Bengal”, or a Crossed Postal 
sion vv r> J^nyable to “Secretary. Public Service Com- 
t Bengal”. Overseas candidates may deposit 

t I IlMcahon fees with the High Commission of Tndia 
nri»»p •v! r 'i «« the case mir be. Particulars 

fiic p ec application forms obtainable from the office 
>o ro f ? n ] ’ Tn,KS ' (m ' Anderson House (ground floor), 
a K‘utta^27, personally or on sending a self- 
fnvelop© ( h\zq 10'* x6*) with postage stamp of 


0.35 nP. and the name of the post superscribed on the 
envelope. ITiose who intend to take application forms 
and/or submit the applications personally should do so 
between 10-15 a.m. and 3-00 p.m. on lull working days 
and between 10-15 a.m. and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 

Closing date— The 30th April 1982. 

A. C. ROY, Sccietary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Aliore, the 2 w 4h March, 1962. 


Advertisement No. 18. 

APPLICATIONS arc invited from Indian citizens tor the 
lolloping temporary posts at the College of Textile Techno- 
logy, Benhampore, under the Commeroe and Industries 
Department, West Bengali— 

(a) One Vice-Principal, 

(b) One Lecturer in Physics, 

(c) One Lecturer in Chemistry, 

(d) One Lectuicr in Economies. 

Pay: For Vice- Principal— Rs. 300 -30 -IKK) (E.B. after 
8th and 16th Stages) per month. Higher initial pay up to 
Rs. 150 may be granted to a deserving candidate, not 
already in Government service, oil the basis of qualifications 
and experience. 

For Lecturers — Rs. 250 -15 — 550 (E.B. after 10th stage) 
per month. I light ' initial pay up to Its. 325 may be 
granted to a desc \ mg candidate, not already in Govern- 
ment service. </n the ba<sis of qualifications and experience. 

Qualifications: For Vloe-Princlpal — Essontial— (i) A 

Master’s degree in any branch of Science or Technology of 
a recognised Limmsity; (ii) Five years’ practical 
experience in am 'textile Research Organisation; (iii) 
Administrative ability. Desirable — (i) M.Se. (Tech.) in 
anv textile sufciect oi a foreign University; (ii) Teaching 
experience; Gin Knowledge of Bengali. 

For Lecturers: Essential— -A first class Master’s degree, 
Or, A second dash Master's degree* with first class Honours 
in the Bachelor's degree, Or, A Doctorate degree with firBt 
class Honours or second class Master’s degree, of an Indian 
University in the inquired subject (viz., Physics. Chemistry 
or Economics, as tin* case may be) ; 


Or, 


Equivalent foreign qualifications; 


Or, 


Candidates having otherwise a good academic record but 
possessing a second class Master’s degree with second class 
Honours in the BaHielnr’s degree in the required subject 
(viz.. Physics, Chemistry or Economies, as the case may be) 
ffius three \ ears’ teaching experience in a recognised 
College as a whole-time teacher in the subject, concerned 
arc also eligible. The period of teaching experience Is 
reiaxable at tho discretion of the Commission. 

Desirable — (i) Goml power of expressirm ill Bengali - 
spoken and wiitten: (ii) (|or Lecturers in Physics and 
Chemistry onlyi Expenenee in research on Textile 
Physics or Textile Chemistry, as the case may he. 

Age: (for all the posts) — Not more than 35 years on 
the 1st April 1962, telaxable lor otherwise well qualified 
candidates 

The ago limit foi -ill the posts is rolaxable hv five years 
for Scheduled Cn«stex/ Tribes candidates and up to 15 years 
lor displaced persons fiom Pakistan. 

A candidate who hetoie the 15th August 1917, was 
defamed, imprisoned interned or e\ term'd on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence . not being convicted of an c/ffenco indicating 
moral turpitude, shall he entitled to a concession in respect 
of the age limit- The concession granted will be equal to 
the exact period of detention, imprisonment, internment or 
externment suffered up to a maximum of fmir years. 



154 


THE CALCUTTA UAZETTE, APRIL 12, 1962 


[Part 


Applv to Secretary with a Treasury Chalan of Rs. 5 under 
hoad ‘ ‘"XXXVI — Mi scellaneous — Receipts of Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal” or a Crossed Postal Order of 
Rs 5 payable to "Secretary, Public Service Commission, 
West Bengal”. Oversows candidates may deposit their 
application fees with the High Commissic/n of India or the 
Indian Embassy, as the case may be. Particulars and 
prescribed application forms obtainable from the office of 
the Commission, Anderson House (ground floor), Alipore, 
Calcufta*-27, personally or on sending a self-addressed 
envelope (size 10" x 6") with postage stamp of 35 nP., and 
the name of the post superscribed on tho envelope. Those 
who intend to take application forms and/or submit the 
applications personally should do so between 10-15 a.m. and 
3-00 p.m. on full working days and between 10-15 a.m. and 
12-M0 p.m. on Saturdays. 

Closing date — The 30th April 1962. 

A. <\ ROY, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Alipore, the 31st March 1962. 


Corrigendum 

IN partial modification of Commission’s Advertisement 
No. 15(a) of 1902 inviting applications for the post of 
Professor of Economics in the West Bengal Senior Educa- 
tional Service (scale: — Rs. 500 1,500), it is notified lor 

general information that the post is permanent hut the 
appointment, will he made on a tcmpoiarv basis at present. 

Particulars and prescribed application tonus obtninabh 
from the office of the Commission, Anderson House (ground 
door), Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a 
soil-addressed envelope (size 10"xf>'') with postage stamp ot 
35 nP. and the name of the post, superset bed on the 
envelope. 

Closing date— The 28th April 1962. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary. 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Alipore, the 28th March, 1932. 


HIGH COURT, APPELLATE SIDE, CALCUTTA. 

NOTIFICATION 

No 3427A., dated Calcutta, the 6th April 1062 

APPLICATIONS are invited I mm amongst the members of 
the Bar who have put in at least, three years’ continuous 
practice and are now in active practice, for selection to the 
West Bengal Civil Service (.Indicia!) by the High Court, 
Calcutta. The number of vacancies to be filled up by 
selection is nine. 

2. The attentum of the intending candidates is drawn 
to the rules regarding recruitment, to the West Bengal Civil 
Sorvico (Judicial), published with the Government of West 
Bengal, Judicial Department notification No. 1713-J., dated 
the 31st March 1951, at pages 782-783, Part. T of the 
“Calcutta Gazette”, dated the 12th April 1951, as sub- 
sequently amended bv the Government of West Bengal. 
Law (Judicial) Department notifications No. 3674-J., dated 
the 1st May 1959, and No. 10587-J/ J4J-29/59, dated the 
1 7th December 1959, published at pages 1813-1814. Part 1 
of tho “Calcutta Gazette”, darted the 14th May 1959, and 
at pages 4434-4435, Part I of the said Gazette, dated the 
24th December 1959, respectively. For the required quali- 
fications candidates are referred to the amendments of the 
rules as published in the “Calcutta* Gazette”, dated the 
11th May 1959, mentioned above. 

S. Applications for selection must reach the under- 
bign«d not later than the 26th Mav 1962, in the form 
prescribed for the purpose copies whereof may be had free 
«>f cost, from the office of the undersigned on application 
which must, he accompanied bv an attested copy of the 
Matriculation Examination Pass Certificate or its equivalent. 


4. Only those candidates .whose age is not less than 5 
years and not more than .32 years on the 1st January 
will be supplied with ftzrniB of application. 

5. Endeavour, in any form, to enlist support f or l 
candidature will render a candidate ineligible for select^ 
and no candidate will be interviewed by the undersign 
prior to his being called upon, if necessary. Intervj ft , 
will not be granted, also, by the undersigned to the parent 
guardians or well-wishers ot prospective candidates. 

6. Those who have already applied in pursuance of u 
Court’s notification No. 7086A., dated the 28th Novemh 
1961 , need not apply again. 

1L N. DUTT, Rostra 


ORDER OF ADJUDICATION 

f Section 16 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, V of 1920 

IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUBORDINATE JUDfi 
AT ALIFORE 

Insolvency Application No. 35 of 1961 

PURSUANT to n petition, dated 5th August 1961, fil* 
against W. H. Xavier of No. 15. Strand Road, Calrutti 
Debtiir, and on the application of Madanlal Agarwak ( 
18 Mullick Street, Calcutta, Creditor, and on reading at 
hearing his lawyer it is ordered that, flic debtor be and tl 
Haid debtor is hereby adjudged insolvent. 

Lt is further ordered that the debtor do apply for h 
discharge after 31st December 1962. 

Dated this 28th day of March 1962. 

N. G. CM AUDflURI, Suh-Judg 

( 312—1 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
24-PARGAN AS 

Insolvency Case No. 5 of 1962 

Clnttaraiyan Gliosli, residing a*t, 22/4 Mayerput Rcra 
Chetla, P S. Alipore, distort 2 1 -Pargnnas, Dehto 
Applicant 

To Comniissionei ol Sales Tax at * I Belia ,r hata Mam Him 
C alcutta*, and 6 others, Creel- 1 us. 

ON the 26th dav ol March 196° it wa,-, ordered that tj 
matter of the petition of the a dirnnt be heard on ti 
30th day ot April 1962 and that the said applicant 1 
attend to he examined by this ( nut on that date. 

S. SEN GUPTA, District Judg 
Mipore, the 29th March 1962. 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
24-PARGAN AS 

Insolvency Case No. 6 of 1962 

Raj Kumar S. Preston of 3.5!) .lessnre Road, Dam Dm 
district 21-Parganas, Debtor Applicant 

To Income-tax Officer, District III (1), Calcutta, C rodit-c 

ON the 26th da.v of March 1!>6'2 it was ordered that tj 
matter of the petition of the applicant, be heard 
2)0 th day of April 1962 and that the said «PP 1,C 
attend to he examined by this Court oil that date. 

S. SEN GDPTA, District .To* 
Alipore, the 29th March 1962. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 12, 1962 


155 


rT II] 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARQANAS 

Insolvency Case No* 20 of 1062 

j^, r tfusfore of JVI. C. Road, P.S. Nailm-ti, district 
^pl’urganas, Debtor-Applicant 

Huindrrwr.a Singh of Halisahar, Kona, P.S. Bizpore, 
district 24-Parganas and 6 others, Creditors. 

the 3(>th da«y of March 1962 it was ordered that the 
i»tter of the petition of the applicant be heard on the 
th da.\ of May 1962 and that the said applicant to attend 
0 bo examined by this Court on that date. 

N. O. CHAITDHIJ IM, Sub-Judge, 
jipore the ‘list March 1962. 

1 (31 5- L) 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 


Insolvency Case No. 21 of 1962 

lugilal \giprwahi. residing at 136 Cc/tton Street, Calcutta-7, 
Creditor-Applicant 

o (». K. Monin, works for gain in British Overseas Airways 

Corpoiation, Du in Dum, district 24-Parganas, Debtor. 
)N the 30 th day of March 1962 it was ordered that the 
natter of the petition of the applicant be heard on the 
th day of May 1962 and that the said applicant to attend 
o ho examined by ibis Court on that date. 

N. G. CHAUDHURT, Sub-Judge. 
Iipore, the a 1st March 1962. 

(316-1) 


IN TH L COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE. 
BHAGALPUR 


Money Appeal No. 2 of 1961 

ppral from the decree passed on 1st December 1960, in 
Monev Suit No. .‘Ill of 1964 by Shri Md. Abul Hoyat, 
Munsii ot Banka in the district of Bhagalpur (Bihar) 

‘press Auto Service Ltd., Duinka, through Shri Ramjiwan 
Hunatsmgka, Managing Director, Dumka, Dial riet 
antlml Parganas, Appellant. 


h'hn Manohar Jha and another, Respondent 

■iwpHk (ioneriil Insuranco Company Ltd., 15 I’olhwl 
Oaluitta. 

\KK 

le oLv >tlt 0 i] r Ai a ^ )0V0 HPPPftl Bus been preferred In 
Mav lor?, 11 ! ^Pellanf in this court and that 5th d;«; 
’ ’ has been fixed for hearing oi the appeal. 

W hi* formed to make appearance in iJn 

*ard inA i • I 1 ®* 0 . fixeci filing which the appeal will hi 
decided in your absence. 

th A’ l o^M“^h h m2 aT,d Sea ^ of court > this the 


ft. ftTNHA, District Judge. 

(325-1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
CHAMPARAN AT MOTIHARI (BIHAR) 

Title Appeal No. 21 of 1961 

Fidel is Solomon of Bettiah, Appellant 
versus 

Anthony Mathew Das and others, Respondents. 

To Mosst. Kalensa, daughter of late Bandit Dass and 
wife of Joseph Osta, resident of Christian quarters, 
Bettiah, district Champarun, at present Chaili Dhanga, 
Asansole district, Burdwan. 

WHEREAS the abovenamed appellant has preferred an 
appeal against the judgment and deem*, dated 23 rd 
December 1960 and 9th January 1961 respect ively passed 
by the Munsit of Bettiah in T.S. 24 of 1958 and 27th 
April, 1962 is the date fixed in the appeal for hearing. 

You are hereby directed to appear personally or thiough 
your duly authorised agent on 27th April 1962 at 
6-JO a. m. failing which the appeal will be henrd and 
determined ex parte in your absence. 

Given under my hand and the seal ol this Court, this 
27th day of March, 1962. 

ILLEGIBLE, District Judgo-in -charge. 

(322- 1) 


DISTRICT NADIA 

IN THE COURT OF DI8TRICT AND SESSIONS 
JUDGE, NADIA, AT KRI8HN AGAR, ARBITRATOR 
# UNDER ACT XXX OF 1952 

Arbitration oaae No. 6 of 1961 

Nanihala Pal and others, Claimants 
versus 

The State of West Bengal, Opposite Party 

IN the matter of application for the determination ot the 
amount of compensation payable for the acquisition ol the 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 43, 46, 52 . 55 , 57 , 59, 61, 62 
73, 272, 276, 277, 368, 369, 370, 371, 373, 389, 290, 
51, 63, 64, 278 and parts of cadastral survey plots 45, 56, 
70, 72 of Mouza Dharmabati, jurisdiction list No. til, 
police-station Cliakda, district Nadia, alleged to have 
belonged to abovenamed claimant on the dates ot acquisi- 
tion and requisition: 

1. Trustees to the estate ot Saraswnti Trust estate of 

Ghoshpara Kachari, police-station Chakdah, dis- 
trict Nadia. 

2. Kalikrishna Pal, Nimai Krishna. Pal, Kudhir Krishna 

Pal, sons of fturendranath Pal of 55A Middle Road, 
Calcutta. 

3. Raghunandan Boalia, Jadunandan Boaha, sons of 

Jiten Boalia of Kantipur, police-station Santipur, 
district Nadia. 

TAKE notice that the above case in which I have h*. cn 
appointed Arbitrator for the determination of the amount 
ot compensation payable for the acquisition on the pro- 
perties mentioned above as per notification No. HUM, 
dated Calcutta, 7th September 1960, Government oi Wc.J. 
Bengal, Land and Land Revenue Department, Requisition 
Branch, has been set down on the 7tli May 1962 at 
10-30 a.m. for appearance and for filing statement as 
what is the fair amount of compensation for the proper* v 
involved in this case or objection, if any. to the claim and 
in default of your appearance either in person or hv 
representative on the said date the case \vi 1 1 he proceeded 
with in your absence. 

Given under my hand and the seal of the Court this the 
4th day of April 1962. 

K. -I. SEN CHITA. 

District and Sessions Judge Nadia, 
Arbitrator under Art \\\ n( 

( 321 — 2 ) 



156 


THE CALCUTTA UAZETTE, APRIL 12. 1962 


[Pari 5 


DISTKKT NADIA 

IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT AND SESSIONS 
JUDGE, NADIA AT KRISHNAGAR, ARBITRATOR 
UNDER ACT XXX OF 1952 

Arbitration Case No. 5 of 1961 

Shrimoti Nirmalababi Pal, Sntyasih Pa*|, Busanta. Kumar 
Ghosc, 1 Suhal Chandra lainc. Calcutta, Claimants, 

versus 

The Stato of West. Bengal, Opposite Party. 

In the matter of application for the determination of 
the amount of compensation payable ior the acquisition ot 
the cadastral survey plot Nos. 101, 099, 729, 737 , 804, 
820, 881, 882, 898, 901, 900, 910, 957, 947, 980, 987. 

1012, 1025, 1021, 1011-1046, 1049, 1051, 10.52-1062, 1069/ 
1788, 1070-1075, 1075, 1081, 1082, 1081, 1080, 1088-1091, 
1096, 1099, 1101, 1101-1100. 1108, 1109, 1111, 1114, 
1116, 1164, 1179, 1187, 1191. 1195, 1205, 1205, 1287, 1289, 
1291, 1550, 1526. 1415, 1146, 1541, 1555. 1607, 1609, 
and 1765, and cadastral survey plot Nos. 97, 709, 825, 862, 
904-914, 991, 1025, 1050, 1069, 1087, 1106, 1105, 1110, 1125, 
1248, 1489, 1555, 1558, 1578, 1650, 1055, 1720. 3762, 3765 
and intei medmrv rights and interests undej toussi Nos. 
154, 135, 156, 159, 562, 650, 658 of nmuza Muratipur, 
jurisdiction list Nos. 154, 015, 150, 159 , 502 , 050. 058 of 
mr/uza Muratipur, jurisdiction list No. 51, police-station 
Chakdah, district Nadia, alleged to have belonged to above- 
named claimant on the dates of acquisition and requisition. 

1. Matindranatli Banerjee, son of -litendrana-th Baner- 
joe, 2. Saraimi Banerjee, wile ol Mritymijoy Banerjee. 
for self and guardian mothei of minor sons Debipada 
Banerjcc, Sibapada* Banerjcc. Knktipadn Banerjcc, 
sons of Mrityunjoy Banerjcc ol Palpara, police-station 
Chakdah district Nadia, 5. Anitnbala Dcbi for self 
and motlicr of Kalida*s Banerjcc of Palpara, police- 
station Chakdah, distnet Nadui, 1. Sailendranatli 
Chatteriee, 5. Upendrmath Chatterjee, son of Tarak- 
nath ChuAtorjee of Muratipur, police-station Chakdah, 
district Nadia, (». Smehand Gharaini, son of Kaclii- 
muddin Glmrami ol Cliandmari, police-station 
Chakdah, district Nadia. 7 Kasinath Banerjee son 
c/f Surendranath Bancrice, 8. Umasashi Dchy a. wife 
of Surendranath Bancrice of Sivakhah, 9. Hajari 
MondnJ, son ol Kador Mondal, Clmndmaii, 10. Sunnat 
Bibi, wife of Moksed Biswas, se.lt ami guardian of 
sons and daughters Monsur Biswas, .Taliera Bibi of 
Chandinari, police-station Chakdah, 11. Moti Biswas, 
sou ol Soiram Biswa.s of Birpara, police-station 
Chakdah, 12. Kudrat All Mondal, son of Arjun 
Mondal, 15. Jlahhani Mondal, 14. Babainat Mondal, 
son of Kailash Mondal, Hawadhnm, Rnnnghal. 15. 
Gourchandra Ghosh, son of Sristidhar Ghosh, llaift- 
dham, police- station Banaghnt, 16. Profnlla Kumar 
Banerjee, son ot Harimohiwi Banerjee of Mirat-ipur, 
17. Monindra Nath Ghodi, son of Amhika Charan 
Ghosh of Sankarpur, Chakdah, 18. Moliamava Behi, 
wile oj Khitish Chandra Chatterjee, 19. Radharaman 
Chatterjee, son of Khitisli Chandra Chatterjee, 95 
South Sithi Road, Bum Burn, 20. Mritvunjoy 
Bliattucfiarjcc, son of Bidfiuhhusan Bhattaeharjee, 
21. Sastliifihusan Sil. 22 Chandra Kumar Sil. 25. 
Prohhat Kumar Sil. 21. Sitanath Sil. 25. Sudhir 
Chandra Sil, son of Rakhal Sil, P.O. Somrata, 

Hooghly, 26. Sanat Kumar Chatterjee, 27. Monindra- 
kumar Cha*t4erjee, 28 Sukumar Chatterjee, 29. 
Problmt Kumar Chat ferine, son of Mondal Chatterjee. 
50. Sailendranath Rov. Pi old. id Kumar Ro\ , sons o* 
Bankiin Ch Roy. 21 Knliproxnd Banerjee Lane, 

Howrah, 51. Samhhu Chandra* Roy, son of Jitendrn 
Kirnar Rov, 52. Prohlad Kumar Roy, son of 

Surendia Kumar Roy, 55. Joganniya Belli, wife of 
Krishna Chandra Ro\ Scrampore. 51. Suharna 

Kim»a*ri Behi, wife of Kntv.vuiti Mukhenee, Hajari- 
hagh. 55 Biresuar Roy Banerjee, son of llemchandra 
Roy Banerjee, 56. Hi ronmoyce Behi, 57. Labonyabala 
Behi, wife i,*f Hem Chandra Rov Bam»r|ee, 58. H’enu 
pada. llajra*, 59. Sntycudrannth Sur. 40. Nanigopal 
Ganguli, 11. Kahprosanna Nandi, Trustees to the 
estate of Sarawati Trust Estate, Ghoshpara, 42. 
Jvotish Chandra Ghosh, sou of Bwriawari, 45. Bono- 
mali Ghosh, Churamoni Ghosh, minors Gopal Ghosh, 
son r/f Boendra Ghosh. selt and guardian mother 
Subodh Bala Pal of Mathurapur, Knmargaclii, dis- 
triet Ifooghlv, 44. Kalikrishna* Pal, 45. Nemai Krishna 
Pal, 46. Sudhir Krishna Pal. son of Surcndra Nath 


Pal, 5«5A Middle Road, Entally. Calcutta, 47. Sa a 
Bagdi, son of Protap Bagdi, Modhusudanpur, ptf 
Nasra*, 48. Nilmoni Rajbanshi, son of Nani RujIuh, p ' 
19. Bacharam Ghosh, son of Dasarath Ghcrsh. v,ii l ’ 
Putia, Taheria, 24-Parganas. 

TAKE notice that the above rase in which I ha<\e ) 
appointed Arbitrator lor the determination of the 
of compensation payable for the acquisition on the 
lies mentioned above as per notification No. 12152 ( \.V] 
Calcutta, 29th July I960, Government of West "ih*nn. 
Land and Land Revenue Department, Requisition R r „,r?’ 
has been set down on the 7th May 1962 at 10-50 p 
appearame and for filing statement as to what is the f!° r 
{.•mount of coin | ensation for the property involved j r , */ ,,r 
ease or objection 0 any, to the claim and in default '! 
your appearance either in person or by represent nfuo 0 
the said <late, the case will be proceeded with m , ’ n 
absence. r j 

Given under my hand and the seal of the Court tW u 
4th da\ ol April 1962. t,le 

K. J. SEN GUPTA, 
District iwid Sessions Judge, W, 
Arbitrator under Act XXX of ]\)ft 

642:U2) 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUBORDINATE JUDGE tr 
A8AN80L 

Insolvency Case No. 8 of 1962 

Debtor Petitionci : Garilm Koiri, sou of Sakln Koin 1 
east e Hindu, hv occupation service, residing at P lm 
Knlti P.S. Kulti, district Burdwan. 1 

I I hereby m/tiiiod that the abovenamed petitioner In 
applied to he adjudged an incolvant. The (Joint hi 
registered that application fixing 14th May 1962 lei hcani 
Iheieof. 

N. C DUTTA 
Subordinate Judge. 
Insolvency junHicimi 


cm-i 


COMPANY PETITION No. 54 0|< 1962 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
Original Civil Jurisdiction 
In the matter ot Companies Act, 1956 
And 

In the matter of Cawnpore Rolling Mills P?r.,ilc I id i 
Company incorporated undci the Indian ('oinpjnm 
Vet. 1915. and having its registered office at No 714 
Amherst Street in the town oi Calculi a within till 
jui isdietion aim esaid. 


Notice of Petition 

A PEP mo N under sections 155 and 159 ol flu Od 
panics Act, 1956, lor winding up was presented by Hadia i 
hil Stool Roiling Mill's ol Kojgaddi Hatia, P.O. C *;iw up * h 
on flic 19th February 1962 and the said pet H ion u Im* 
lor hearing hclore tiie Company Judge on the Bth Ap 
1962. Ami person desirous of supporting or ojipos au 
said petition should send to the petitioner's AtBn nevt 
not u o of Ins intention, signed by him or his Attoino witj 
his name and address, so as to reach the pel umnui I 
Attorneys not later than five days before 1 ho dale fiu w Cj 
the hearing ol the petition. Where ho seeks to opi» MM ‘ lf 
petition, I lie grounds of opposition or a copy of a 
aflida\it sliall be furnished with such notin' A "’l'-'’ 
Hie petition will he lurnished hv the undei signed 9' *J 
person requiring the same on payment of the l’ ir 1,111 
Bated Hie 19th March 1962. 


Bated the 19th March. 1962. 

KHAITAN A CB. 
Attorneys for the H'Utm* 

IB, Old Post Office Street. 

(212-J 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 12, 1962 


1 5 7 


COMPANY PETITION NO. 49 OF 1962 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 


Original Jurisdiction 

la the Matter of Companies Act, 1956 
And 

fn the Matter of section 433 of the said Act. 
And 

]n the Matter of Batty & Co. (Private) Ltd. 
ADVERTISEMENT OF PETITION 


\\) r l ICE is hereby given that petition for the winding up 
ubovenamod company by the High Court at Calcutta 
^, s „ n 22nd day of February 1962, presented tty the said 
„, r t by Daulal Phumra of No. 5G, Burtolla Street, Calcutta 
, of the said company and that the said petition is 

J -,vi o 1 to be heard before the Court on the 7th day of 
May 1962. 

Any creditor, contributory or other person desirouB of 
importing or opposing the making of an order on the said 
pei. lion should send to the petitioner or his advocate notice 
[,1 } lls intention signed by him gt his advocate with his name 
jni | address, so as to reach the petitioner of his advocate 
jmt Liter than five days before the date fixed for the hearing 
Ui the petition, and appear at the hearing for the purpose 
iu j 1 or by bis advocate. A copy of the petition will 
l, t . i flushed bv the undersigned to any creditor or contri- 
butory on payment of the prescribed charges for the same. 

\n> affidavit intended to be used in opposition to the 
petition tliould be filed in Court, and a copy served on the 
fcetiuuncr or bis attorneys not less than five days before 
I) (into (ixed for the hearing. 


P. C. GHOSE & Co., 


Attorneys for the petitioner. 
8/2 Hastings Street, Calcutta. 

lut'd the 31st March 1962. 


(331 — 1) 


SHRI AJ1TCHANDRA MAJUMDAB, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(250 — 4) 


SHRI ANIL KUMAR DAS CHAUDHITRI, LL.B., intends 
to he enrolled as an Advocate ot the Culcutta High Court. 

( 261 — 4 ) 


SUHI KIlfcANMA\ UHOSII. LL.B., intends to bo enrolled 
as an Advomtr ■>: the Calcutta Hi^h Court. 

( 202 — 4 ) 


RATHINDHA KlTMAlt SA11KAR, LL.B., intends to bo 
enrolled an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(267 — 4 > 


K En I LA It 1 C HAND MOHTA, LL.B., intends to be enroll- 
ed as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(268 — 4) 


SilRTMAli SADI I ANA SARKAR, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled a., an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(269 — 4) 


MONO!! VNMAN HARI GHOSH, LL.B., intends to be 
enroll .1 as an \dvocate nf the Calcutta High Court. 

(270—4) 


H\H.M I1A.T SINGH, LL.B. intends to be enrolled as 
[i Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(235— 4) 


AJll KUMAR MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends to bo 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(271-4) 


11111 CHAR AN BARAL, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
h IUJ Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(241—4) 


ITINDll A NATH BISWAS, LL.B., intends to bo enrolled 
lau Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(246—4) 


lANAUT KUMAR MANDAL, LL.B., intends to be 
“oiled as an Advocato of the Calcutta High Court. 

(247—4) 


t n'iuA SAD CHAUDHURI, M.Com.. LL.B., intends 
'•"roiled as an Advocato of the Calcutta High Court. 


1 l) 


(248 - 


.1 YOTI PROKASH SADHUKHAN, M.A., LL.B., intends 
to he enrolled as au Advocato of the Calcutta High Court. 

(272-4) 


SU KlTMAR BISWAS, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(273—4) 


I YARI SHANKAR BEHAN1, LL.B., intends to be enroll- 
ed as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(274-4) 


Ml). ALLA BUKHSH, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
\dvocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(275-4) 


^iatiia x 


Alii PAN DIP, M.A., LL.B., mi ends 
\d\ orate oj the Calcutta High Court. 


tv) 


in' 


(249—4) 


DEBABRATA MAITRA, LL.B. ; intends to bo enrollod as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(276—4) 


168 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 12, 1962 


>A5ri, 


SUNIL KUMAR BlSWAS, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(281-4) 


SANT! It AN JAN CHAKRABARTI, M.tom., LL.H, 
intends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court 

(282 — 4> 


SHRI DURGA DAS KUNDU, LL.B., intends to w 
enrolled m an Advocate in the High Court at Calcutta * 

(310^j 


All AN r MOHAN UAI CHAUDHURY, LL.B., intends t 
he enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court U 

< 319-41 


SHRI HLMANGSHU 

to bo enrolled ns an 


MOHAN BANERJEE, B.L., intends 
Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 


(293 — l i 


SHRI BRATINDRAMOHAN RAY, LL.B. intends to re- 
enrolled as au Advocate of Culcutta High Court. 

(294—4 . 


SIT A RAM ACIR.VWALA, LL.B., intends to he enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(295—4) 


RAM DAS CHATTERJEE. LL.B., intends to bo enrol)*; 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 00 

(320-4) 


SHRI J1TENDRA CHANDRA SEN, intends to j* 
enrolled as an Advocate oi the Calcutta High Court. 

(321 — i 


KALI KUMAR CHAKRABARTI, LL.B., intends tot 
enrolled a, m Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(334 — ^4 


ARYYA KUMAR SARKAR, LTi.B., intends to bo enroll® 
as nn tdvocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(335 — 4 


SIRENDRA 
enrolled in nn 


SINGH MALIK, LL.B., intends to 
\ilvoo.ito of the Calcutta LliRh Court. 


be 


(290- -H 


PR \YAfi D VS DAGA. LL.B., intends to bo enrolled as ai 
\d veeate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(336- 1 


SAIL KN SEN LI 1L. intends to he enrolled as an 
Advocate r»f the Calcutta Ifi^h Court 

(297—4) 


SHRI 1‘RABIR KUMAR SAttANGI, LL.B., intends to he 
enro!h«i is an Advo-ate of the High Court at Calcutta. 


MR. Ml) ABDUL HAKIM intends to be enrolled as an 
Vivo, ate «>f ;h«> Calcutta High Court. 

(306- 4) 


SHRI NIIR ABDUL GONI, M.A., LL.B., intends to lx 
admitted as an Advocate in the High Court at Calcutta. 

(337 — 41 


SYAMANAND \ MUKHOPADH YAY, LL.B., intends to b 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(338 — 4! 


SAMARENDRA NATH BASU, B.L., intends to be enroll* 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta* High Court. 

(339 J 


PR A NAB KUMVR GANGOPADHYA Y, LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled -is an \d\ orate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(307—4) 


SHYAM SlTNDAlt DHANUKA intends to be enrolled as « 

Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. „ . 

(.340 A 


PANDURANG sill ORAM BAGATHEY, LL.B. intends 
to be enrolled .i. \d\ orate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(308 — 1 * 


S11YAM SUNDAR AGARWAL intends to he enrolled 
Vd’ oi ate Uim Calcutta High Court. 


•TOGKN DBA KUMAR BHAS1N, LL.B., intends to bo 
enrolled •>< nn \iLornte (.1 tbn Calcutta HiRh Court. 

(309 — 4) 


NillYAMA CHARAN G ANGOPADHYAY, LL.B-. ‘j*'" 
to 1 enrolled us an Advocate of tho CaJcuttn Hip* 

(. 142 -' 


TIIJK U ALU U IT A UAZJISITJ!., AFK1L 12, m2 


159 


tftrrrr 


NOTICE 


MTK’E ^ ere ^y K> ven that Sbri Mangilal Bhojnagarwalla 
r«tirt'd from the partnership firms known as “Deokaran- 
Gulraj & Co." and “Mangilal Nathmal” both of No. 
J?i| strand Rtoad, Calcutta, with effect from 6th Novem- 

Jr i«l- 

MANGILAL BHOJNAGARWALLA. 


)at (d the 29th March 1962. 


(318-1) 


NOTICE 


tfOTlCK i» hereby given that on retirement of Shri Chitta- 
^ • Kundu, eon of Late Surendra Mohan Kundu from 


fanjan 


a 0 firm “Mudranika** on 2nd April 1962, Messrs. Akhil 
Sandra Kundu, Nikhil Chandra Kundu and Basudeb Dey 
Kjll become the only partners of the firm “Mudranika” of 
m/3 Nirmftl Chunder Street, Calcutta, Bince 2nd April 

[ 962 . 

AKHIL CHANDRA KUNDU, 


NIKHIL CHANDRA KUNDU, 
BASUDEB DEY. 


Dated, the 2nd April 1962. 


(326—1) 


aL 


NOTICE UNDER SECTION 486(1) #F RESOLUTION TO 
WIND UP VOLUNTARILY. 

In ttie matter of Companies Aot, 1066 

And 

In the matter of 

BARHAJ NATIONAL METAL AND IRON INDU8TRIE8 
PRIVATE LIMITED. 

At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the abovenamed 
company duly conveyed, and held at 3§2 G. T. Road North, 
Salkie, Howrah, cm the 28th day of March 1962, the follow- 
ing resolution was duly passed as a Special Resolution: 

“Resolved that the Company he wound up voluntarily 
as the Creditors voluntary liquidation under section 488(5) 
and section 500 of the Companies Act, 1956. 

And at the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 28th 
day erf March 1962 Shri A run Kumar Mukherjee of No. 37, 
Indra Biswas Road. Calcutta-37, was appointed liquidator 
of the Company and his remuneration be fixed at Ks. 500 
(Rupees five hundred) only and the actual costs incidental 
thereto would be paid by the Company, for the purpose of 
the winding up. 


For Barhaj National Metal & Iron Industries 

Private Ltd. 


Dated the 30th March 1962. 


GULAB CHAND JAISWAL, 
Chairman. 


(330-1) 


COMPANIES ACT, 1956 

MEMBERS* VOLUNTARY WINDING UP 

Notloe of appointment of liquidator pursuant to 
sootion 616 

Name of Company: The Gauhati Electric Supply 
Corporation (1927) Limited. 

Nature of business: Generation and distribution of 
electricity. 

Address of Registered Office: 135 Prinsep Street, 
Calcutta-13. 

Name and address of Liquidator: Mr. Kiron Kumar 
Roy, 31 Chittaranjan Avenue, Calcutta-12. 

Dato of appointment: 30th March 1962. 

H) whom appointed: Members and Creditors. 


IN THE MATTER OF DHANUKA AND COMPANY 
PRIVATE LIMITED 

AT a general meeting of the abovenamed company, duly 
oonvenech and held at No. 180, Chittaranjan Avenue, in the 
town of Calcutta, on the 23rd day of March 1962 the follow- 
ing Special Resolution was duly passed: 

“RESOLVED that the Company be wound up 
voluntanly and that Mr. J. S. Lodha of IB Old Post 
Uiiico Street, Calcutta, be appointed Liquidator for the 
purpose of such winding up at a remuneration of Rupees 
one thousand.* * 

PANNALAL BANERJEE, Director. 

Dated the noth March 1962. 

(332-1) 


COMPANIES ACT, 1966 


(327—1) 


IN THE MATTER OF THE GAUHATI ELECTRIC 
8UPPLT CORPORATION (1927) LIMITED 

^ an extraordinary general meeting of the abovenamed 
convened and held at its registered office 
' “7 * "," 8 «P Street, Calcutta-13, on the 30th day of 
3 ”, ls ™2, the following resolutions were duly passed as 
Solutions, viz: — 

RI.n \ VET) i }» a t the Company bo wound up voluntarily 
, 1:i members* voluntary winding up and the Direc- 
wra be and are hereby authorised to take all such 
actions that may be necessary therefor according to 

RESOLVED FURTHER lhat Mr. Kiron Kumar Roy of 
I tar k lttaranjan Avenue, Calcutta-12, be and is 
| . ^ appointed as a liquidator of the Company at 

j » remuneration of Rs. 500. 


KIRON KUMAR ROY, Liquidator. 
lll>i l1 *' 2ud April 1902. 


MEMBER8’ VOLUNTARY WINDING UP 

Name of Company: Dhanuka A Company Private Ltd. 
Nature of business: Investment. 

Address of Registered Office: 180 Chittaranjan Avenue, 
Calcutta. 


1*!, Address of Liquidator: Shri J. S. Lodha, 
IB Old Post Office Street, Calcutta. 

Date of Appointment: 23rd March 1962. 

By whom appointed: By the members of the Company. 

(33&-1) 


u loouiwiiTlON OF PARTNERSHIP 

Service Company carrying on business 
ui 10 Tp a ?T ni w g Calcutta-1, with Shri P. L. Shah and 

Hhri D N Modi, ae Partners has been dissolved with effect 
from 31st March 1962. In future the right to carry on 
business in tho above name shall be of Shri P. L Shah 
only. 


Dated the 31st March 1962. 

Partners: P. L. Shah and D. N. Modi. 


(328—1) 


(344—1) 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL U, i'fbZ 


JtiO 


COMPANIES ACT 1956 

CREDITORS VOLUNTARY WINDING UP 

Notice ol appointment of Liquidator Pursuant to section 
616. 

Nttmr „f Company. Himlusthan National Corporation 
(i\) Ltd. 

Nature ol Imsim-sm General Merchants and Cominis- 

Sion Agents. 

Adcli i". . of n.-Kd<T.'d Office: 13 Armenian Street, 
Caloutt«-l 

Name ami addics^ of Liquidators: H. C. Jain, 62 
Xiflim Suit Hoad, Calcutta-7. 

D.tii ol appoint incut . Hist March 1902. 

Uv whom appointed Members and Creditors. 

Hindus!, nan National Corporation (P.) Ltd. 

H. C. JAIN, Liquidator. 

( 345 — 1 ) 


NOTICE UNDER SECTION 485(1) OF THE COMPANIES 
ACT, 1956. 

In the matter of Hindustan National Corporation (P.) 

Ltd., (In Liquidation). 

AT nn Kxtnwirdniary General Meeting of tho Company duly 
convened and held at the Registered Offiee of the Company 
on the Hist .Mutch 19(12, tho tollowing resolution was duly 
passed as a special resolution- — 

“Resolved that the Company be wound up voluntarily, 
and Mr. H. C. Jam of No. 62, Nalim Sett Road, 
Oalcut til-7, bo and is hereby appointed Liquidator for the 
purposes of such winding up at a fixed remuneration of 
R's 1(K) (Rupees one hundred only)”. 



IN THE MATTER OF THE INDIAN COMPAQ 
ACT, 1956 

AND 

IN THE MATTER OF U. T. C. PRIVATE LTD. ( iN 
LIQUIDATION) 

NOTICE under sections 497, 509 and 550 of the Conq, ani 
Act, 1956, is hereby given that a General Meeting 0 f , 
Shareholders and a meeting of the Creditors will }>p ^ 
at 11 Old Post Office Street, Calcutta-1, at 2 p.m. a , 
3 p.m., respectively on Wednesday, tho 16th day 0 t M 
1962. lor receiving tho report of final dissolution and a] 
for the purpose c/f the disposal of the books and pa nets 
the Company. 

Dated the 7fh April 1962. 

R. K. MTTRA, Liquids 


IN THE MATTER OF THE INDIAN COMPANII 

ACT, 1956 

AND 

IN THE MATTER OF ORES DEVELOPMENT C 

PRIVATE LTD., (IN LIQUIDATION) 

NOTICE under sections 497, 509 and 550 of the Compan 
Act, 195(5, is hereby given that a General Meeting of 
Shareholders and a meeting oi the Creditors will Ik h 
at 11 Old Post Office Street, Calcutta-1, at 2 pm i 
H p.m . , respectively on Wednesday, the 16th day of } 
1962, tor receiving the report of final dissolution am! a 
tor the purpose of tho disposal of the hooks and papm 
tho Company. 

Dated the 7th April 1962. 


H. I j . SARAOGT, Director. 

(346 - 1 ) 


R. K. MITRA, Liquida 
(348- 



U red No. C207 


APPENDIX TO THE 


(EalntiUt 





(fei'tti* 


THURSDAY, APRIL, 12, 19(51 


[ SAKA 1884 


Special Jury List 

1 st of persons liable to serve on Special Juries in the High Court at Calcutta for the year 
ensuing from 1st May 1962 pursuant to Act V of 1898 

lV „. / Kitui-s in names and d«*senp 1 inns ran be corrected on communication to the oilier of the (dork ot the Slate 
o|ir pnliin at ion of the revised list < n 2 f‘>th Apnl RM> 2 . Any person w ho deems hiius< Ifloi an\ reason wiongK meluded 
iijni should on or before the I St h April RM >2 address the Clcik ol the Stale on iJie subject as the levied list will lie 


Names. 

A 


Style or calling. 


Residence nr place of 
business. 


vi.iM.ir 

\ : >i .ilmiii A I >e Joseph . . 

Vli'.iiumi M 

\iu.ili.ijn Alis . . 

\« lot . \ \ a it JN , MA 

Vduivxi. Senapur Vain liming .. 

Vlu.i ( 'li. mdia Sekhar 

\liUu Nihar Kumar, BA,BL 

\dili-un Scott, James M. 

AHnLii Amarnath 
Vdh ik;t i \ Si shil Kumar, BCom 
XlH'ojn A HR 

N.uain Lakhasingh 

V.l M V( lil'A 
V- MUilli.i M \1 

-V.Miu.il ikdkrislman BALLB A CA 

1 L'iikI . 


Asstt. Kilburn & C<> Ltd 
1 >it t o 

Asstt Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Sob Fditor. Statesman Ltd 
Prof Surendra Nath College 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Asstt Burn & Co Ltd 

Assistant Senior Officer, Life Insurance Corporation 
of India, Eastern Zone. 

Director, Bird & Co. pte Ltd 
Si Acdt E R I v 

Indian Asstt, Mercantile Bank Ltd 


2 Fairlic Place 
Ditto 

12 Mission Row 
4 Chow rmgliee Square 
2 1-2 Mahatma Candhi 
Rd Cal-h 
4 Bankshall Si 
i 2 M ission Row 

4 Chit taranjari Avenue. 

Chartered Bank Buildings 
I hti o 

5 Netaji Suhhas ltd 


Comnn rcial Fngr Associated Ehetrieal 
( I nd) Rtf* Ltd 

Sales Engineer, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 
Dv Ch Signal & Tele Com Engi I 1 ] Rly 
Asstt, Rricewa'ter house Peal & Co 


IndiivuHS 1.4 Rajiiidia Nath 
M Ilk hei jee Road 
31 Chouringhee, Road 
. . Se.dda h K 1 1 1\ 

B-4 < dllandei ILouse 


s I*., ROom, LDH, A( 

Ai!us1 , Ti 0. 

Alunci 1 Jlunitaz 
Aikut |! R 

A'.Vf-r, |). s. 

A'.jui H \. T{A aUISAK'Wj 


Assistant, Price W aterhouse* Peat, ft Co 
Asstt, 10 1 (Pte) Ltd 
Asstt, Palmer Lavvric Si < V>, Lt d 
Asstt MacNeill ft Barry Ltd 
Assistant Personnel Officer, E. Rly. 

J )itto 


R4 Gillander House*. 

34 Ohowringlieo Road 
21 Netaji Suhhas Road 
2 Fan-lie Place 
Seaklah, E. Rly. 

Dit 1 o. 


^ Akdni MA 

■ Hedavet, MA. 

P ( aiso, W. Eu st race 
i UlM ^ ^ (Chem Kngg) 
l,ln Frank Norman St John 

A^ml. i), MA (Rcotl) 

. ■Anshnun, 1* Cl 

'wi-a.huanavan T K 
feSTMAlftanjIil ACCS 
AnijoTk 

R. 


ii 


Prof St Xavier 's College 
Lecturer, Montana A '/.ad College 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace ft Co, Ltd 
Sales Manager, Indian Alluininium Co Ltd 
Asstt SaU*s Engi Associated Electrical Industries 
find) Ptde Lt (1 

Officer, Karam Oh and Thapar X Bros Pte Ltd 

Br Salt s Managr Hindusthan L v(*r Ltd 

Personnel officer, E Rly 

Asstt Rallis India Ltd 

Sec Officer Tata Tron ft Steel Co Ltd 

Stoftee A-Bfilt Bropko .Bond India, PteXtd 



>man Jmperi&l Tobacco Go of Jlpdia 


S Wellesley Street 
4 Bankshall Street, 

31 Chow rmgliee Rd 
Ditto 

25 Brahourne Road. 

1 ft 3 Brahourne Roa<l 
E Rly House 
lb Hare St rect 
23B Netaji Suhhas Road 
2 Met cafe St „ 

34 Chowringhee 
34'Chowringhee. ^ * 

1 ft 3 ^raboftme Koad 
37 Chowringhee. 



2 


Names. 

Antia, M E ,BCow 
Ad van i G N, BA 
Appodurai, R 
Arnold, C. I. Morris 
Asoka, K. 

Aston A B 

Atal, N arondra Nath 
Atherton, John Bramall 
Attwood, T. M. 

Ayres, MAH 

Ayrton, S. S.» B8c, DFH(Lond) . . 
Ayyar, P. P. 


B 

Baelmiaim JO 

Badyal, H. R. 

Bag, Dhirendranath, ma 
B agehi, H 

Bagai, J. C.mba. (Mioh) 

Bagehi, N. B. 

Bagehi, Pratul K, msc ll.b. 

Bachi, Pinaki Ranjan, BOom 
NDOom 

Bagehi, Soiirondm. N, mao 
Bagehi, Sukumar, MSe 

Bagga, V. 8., BOom 
Bahadweji, SC 
Baijal, T. N., MCoin, LLB 
Ballet i, D K, MALLB MBA 
Bajpaye A 

Bakslii, Sudhir Ran jan 

Ba! Arjya Kumar, MSe 
Bala, II. G-, BA 

Bala, Mahadeva Subramaniam, 
MA, LLB. 

Balasubramani, M. 
Balasuhramanian Sri vast a va 
Balakrishnan, P. K. 

Ball, Gajondranath, msc 
B ammi, JR 
Bailor ji, AC 
Banerjee Ajit Kumar 
Banerjee, Ajit Kumar 
Banerjoe, Ajit Kumar, mso pIid . . 
Banerjee, Ajoy Chandra, MA 
Banorji, Amarendra Nath, MSe . . 

Banerjee, Amarendru Nath, MA 
LLB 

Banerjee, Amiya BLusan, ma 
B anerjee, Anil Baran use, 
be (Cal). 

Banerji, Anil Kumar, msc 
Banerjee, A R 
Banerjee, B 

Banerjee, B. C., BSe. BL 
Banerjee, Bijoy Bhusan, MA, DPhil 
Banerjoe, Birendra Nath 
Banerjee, Bisweswar, MA ^ 

Banerji, Biswanath, B«?c, be 
Banerjee, B K 

, Banerjee, Ghandi Charan, msc . . 
Banerjee, Ghittaranjan, MA 
Banerjee, Dobendra NatJ^ MSo 
Banerjee, Bilip Kumar * * . . 


Style or calling. 


Residence or pb, 
business. 


Ditto 

Officer, Karam Chand Thaper & Co Ltd 
Administrative, Guest Keen Williams Ltd 
Director, Shaw Wallace & Co, Ltd 
Engr, Macneill & Barry 

Acting Dr & Engr International Comvustion 
Pte Ltd 

Assistant, Balmer Lawrie & Co, Ltd 
Director, G. Atherton & Co (Private) Ltd 
Aoctt, Chartered Bank 

Mercantile Asstt Mackinon Mackenzie X Co Ltd 
Engr, The English Electric Company Limited 
Dist. Com. 8updt, E. Rly 


. . Ditto 

25 Brabounu 1>„ 
. . 41 Chowringh<>(> 

. . 4 Bankshall 8 In* 

. . 2 Fairlie Place 

(1) 101 Park Street 

.. 21 Netaji Nubhaj 

. . 4 Mission Row. 

. . 4 Netaji Subhas 

16 Strand Road 
. . D3 Gillander Hoi 
. . 3 Koilaghat. Str 


Asst t Oil Dept Board & Co Pte Ltd 

Sales Engr, Indian Iron & Steel Co 
Prof. City College 
Asstt Acctt officer A G Bengal 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson, Ltd 
Statistical Officer, E. Rly 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Asstt, Acctt State Bank of India (Park St Br) 


Chartered Bant 
ings 

1 2 Mission Rom- 
102-1 Amherst S 
Treasury Buildn 
4 Clive Row 
E. Rly. House 
39 Sanker Chose 
Ditto 


Professor, Surendranath College 
Asstt, Bird & Co (Pte) Ltd 

Offtg Asstt Oontr, Reserve Bank of India 
Ditto 

Officer, Karam Chand Thapar Bros Pte Ltd 
Asstt Secy Indian Alluminum Co Ltd 
Asstt Opeartion Supdt E Rly 
Dy Assr Assessment Dpt Cal Corpn 

Ditto 

Dy. Asstt, Iron & Steel Controller 
Asstt, Bird & Co (Pte) Ltd. 


24 Harrison Ron 

Chartered Bunk 
Buildings. 

Reserve hank. 
Ditto 

25 Brabmirne R 
31 Chovmnghcc 
3 Koiln Ghat St 
5 Surendra J\’at 

jeo Road 
Ditto 

33 Netaji Suhlm 
Chartered bankl 


Inspector of Accounts, Port Commissioners 
Br Acctt Hindusthan Lever Ltd 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson, Ltd 
Prof, St Xavier’s College 
Asst t , Macneill & Barry Ltd 
A P 0 E Rly 

Branch Asstt Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 
Inspector of Accounts, Port Commissioners 
Prof. Presidency College 
Lecturer in History, St. Paul’s College 
Professor, Surendra Nath College 

Jr Ex officer, Bengal National Chamber of Commerce 

Lecturer, Moulana Azad College 
Asstt Mains Engr, C E S C Ltd 

Lecturer, City College 

Asstt, Slialimar Paint, Colour & Varnish Co Lid 
Ditto 

Asstt Supdt, Central Tea Board 

Dy Contr of Examinations, University of Calcutta . . 

Sub Acctt State Bank of India (Park St Br) 

Professor. St Xavier’s College 

Jr Asstt Architect, Works and Buildings Dept 

^sstt I C I (India) Pte Lgd * 

Prof, Vidyasagar College ^ 

Prof Bangabasi College * 

Prof City College (Evening) , 

Mg. Director, A. W. Figgis & Co Privajfie Ltd 


15, Strand Road 
J & 3 Brabounu 
4, Clive Row 
30 Park Struct 
2 Fairlie Place 
E Rly Rohm 
2 Metoalle Si 
15, Strand Road 
86-1, College Str< 
33/1 Amherst St 
24/2, Mahatma 
Road. 

XM1 Minion R 01 
•ion 

8, Wellesloy btr< 
Victona House, 
ghee Square. 
102-1, Amherst ^ 
6 Lyons Range 

Ditto 

27 & 29 Brahoun 

Senate House. 

Queens Ala'*' 011 
30 Park 

Writers’ Builds 
34 Chowrincaee 
39, Sarkar ^hose 
« 26-1 Scott La“® 
102-1 Amherst o 
D6 GiUandor 
rwlnuttad* 



Names. 


Banerjee, Dhirendra Nath 
Banerjee Gauranga Nath, MA 
Banerjee, Gobinda Chandra mso 
Banerjee, Hari Charan 
Banerji, Haricharan, ma 
B anerjee, Hamanta Kumar, BCom 
Banerji, Himangsu, msc 
banerji. Jnan Ranjan 
Banerjee, Jogondra Kumar 

Banerji. J. M. 

Banerjee, Jyotish Ranjan ,BABT 

Banerjee, K. C 

Banerjee, K K 

Banerjee, Kalipada, ma 

Banerjee, Kamalakanta 

Banerji, Kalyan Kumar, ma 

Banerjee, Kamal Ch, MCom 

Banerji, Kanak, ma 

Banerjee, Keshablal 

Boner, j i , K iranmay , am jc k , b e r 

Banerjee, M., ma. in Economics 
banerjee, M.. BA 
Banerjee, Makhanlal, msc 

Banerjee, Malay, MA 
banerjee, Manindra Bhutan 
Banerjee, Manindra Nath ma, Lnn 
Banerjee, N. B. 

Banerjee, Nani Gopal, mso 
Haucrjoo, Nilkanto, Boom 
Bnwrjee, Nirmal Ch, BCom 
CAIIB. 

Banerji, Nirmal Chandra, ma 
B auerji, Nripendra Kumar, 

BE(Cal.), amie mksji (Lond) 
am Inst. F. (Loud) 

Banerjee, P. C. 

Banerjee, P. C 

Banerjee, Phanindra Nath, be . . 

Banerjee, Probod h Ch 
Banerjee, Pra santa 
Banerjee, Prasid Kumar, MSc 
banorjee, Pratap Kumar, BCom 
Banerjee, P N 
Banerjee, R C 

Banerjee, Rabipada, BSc BT 

Banerjee, Rajendra Kumar, MA, 
LLB, ACWA. 

Banerjee, Ram Sundar, msc. 

Banerji, Ran jit Kumar 

Kanorjoe, R N 

Bauorjoe, R 

Banerji, R. R., ba 

BanerjiH.!, S C 

Banerjee, S. K. 

Banerjee, ». K., ba . . . 

t, BME AMME 

,BCom 

^oerjee, S N BSe 


S. 
(India ) 


Style or oalling. 

Asstt, The Indian Standard Wagon Co Lt 
Dy License offr License Dept Corpn of Cal 
Prof, Bangabasi College 

Supvr Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corpn 

Prof, Bangabasi College 

Staff Asstt the Chartered Bank 

Lecturer, Presidency College 

Inspector of Accounts, Port Commissioners 

Asstt Mains Engr, OESO Ltd 

Dy Chief Com Supdt 
Manager Orient Lougmans’ Ltd 
Div Engr, E. Rly 
Asstt Acctt officer, A-G Bengal 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Asstt Sales Dept Indo Burmali Petroleum Co Ltd 
Stall Asstt, State Bank of India 
Supdt (Offtg), R. B. of In .ia 
Professor, Scottish Church College 
Asstt Calcutta claims Bureau 

Engineer, Associated Electrical Industries 
(India), Ltd 

Assistant Accounts Officer, Iron and Steel Control... 
Asstt Acctt Officer, iron & Stool Control 
Lecturer, Calcutta Technical School 

Lecturer EcnA, St. Paul’s College 
Asstt, 3 u to Mills Pcptt, Bird & lleilger 
Professor, City College (Commerce) 

Dy Controller of Stores E. Ply. 

Lecturer in Mathematics, St Paul’s College 
Sujxlt, Reserve Bank of Trnlia 
Supdt , R B of India 

Professor, City College (Com Dept) 

Inspector of Boilers, W Bengal 

Asstt Controller of Stores, E. Rly 

Asstt P Officer, E. Rly 

Dist Engineer, Mains Peptt, C E »S C Ltd 

Asstt Harrisons & Crosfield Ltd 
Sub Editor Statesman Ltd 
Lecturer, Presidency College 
Staff Asstt St ate Bank of India 
Asstt Engr, Supdt E Rly 
Asstt Shaw Wallace & Co Lid 

Spl Offir for education of Backward (Masses Pine 
torate of Education W Bengal 
Accounting Asstt, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 

Lecturer, Presidency College 

Director, Imi>erial Tobacco Co of India, Ltd 

Asstt 1 C 1 (Idnai) Pte Ltd 

Asstt, I C I (India) Pte Ltd 

Acctt, Reserve Bank of India. 

Asstt Com Supdt E Rly 
Asstt, I C I (India) Pte Ltd 
Credit, Manager, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Engineer, Indian Aluminium Co, Ltd 

Dy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports 
Controller of Imports and Exports 


Residence or place of 
businoss. 

12 Misson Row. 

5 S N Banerjee Road 
19 Scott Lane 
.‘11 Dallmusie Square 
19, Scott Lane 
4 Netaji Subhas Rd 
80-1, College Street 
15, Strand Road 
Victoria House, Chow- 
ringhoo Square 
Eastern Rly House 

17 Chittanuijnn Avenue 
E. Rly House. 

Treasury Buildings 
39 Sankar Ghose Lane 
Gillander House 
3, Strand Roiul 
8, Council House Street. 
3, Cornwallis Square 
f> & 7 Netaji Subhas Rp 
6, Mission Row 

33 Netaji Subhas Road 

33 Net a ji Subhas Road 

1 10 Sureiulra Nath 
Banerjee Road. 

33/ 1 Amherst Street . 
Chartered Rank Buildgs. 

13 Mirzapur Street 
Eastern Railway House 
33/1, Amherst. Street 

8, Council House Street 
S, Council House St reet. 

13, Mirzapore Street 
1 , Hastings Street 

Eastern Railway House 
E Rly House. 

Victoria House, Chow- 
ring] lee Square 

0 Church Lane 

•1 Chuwringhee Square 
80/1 College Street.. 

3 St l and Road 
10 Rly House 

4 Banhsliall Street 

1 Ha stings St n <4 

0 Church Lane. 

86/1 College Streot. 

37, Cliowringhoe Road 

34 ( Mmwringhee 
34 fMiowringhee. 

8, Council House Street 

3 Koilaghat Street 
34 Chowringhee. 

6, Church I/inc 

31 Cliowringlmo Road 

4 Esplanade East 
Ditto 



Names. 


Banerjee, S. N. 

Banerji, Sailendra Nath, ass, 

A1EK, A Tnflt P, MSC 

Banerjee,* Salil Kr, MSe 
Banerjee, Sankari Prasad, MA . . 
Banerjee, San tosh Kumar 
Banerjee, Santi Sekhareswar 
Banerjee, Santosh Kr, MA 
Banerjee, Satchidananda 
Banerjee, Satyendra Nath 
Banerji, Satish Chandra, ma 
B anerjee, Sudliir Kumar, BCom 
Banerjee, Sudhindra Nath 

Banerjee, Siihas Ranjan, msc 
Banerji, Sukumar, msc 
Banerjee, Sukumar, MA 
Banerjee, Susubhan, msc 
Banerjee, Sukhamoy, bee, 
jbme. 

Banerjee, S 11 

Banerjee, Sunil Chandra, G.I. 

Mech (Loud) namie (India). 
Banerjee, S 0 

Banerjee, Tapan Kumar, ma 
B anerjee, T. K., 

Banerjee. Japonath, MA 
Banerjee, Ikslianath, MA 
Baptiste, E R 
Bapty, A F 

Boral, Mohan Chand, MSe 
Baral, C 
Bn rat ,N K 
Barham, H. L. 

Barker v F. R. J. 

Barrett, Arthur Hugh 
Barry, P St •! S 
Barsah J K 
Bartley, I ) .1 

Barua, Barindra Nath, ba 
Basaek, Abani Kumar. DEE 

Basak, Bijov Shankar, MSe 
Basak, Rabin dra Nath 
Basu, A 
Basil, Abhijit 

Bose, A. K. 

Basil, A K 
Bose, A. K, MSe 
Basil, A. K., MA, BL, CAllB 
Basil, Amal Kumar, MA 
Basu, Amarendra Kumar, Dip 
Elect. Engr, AMIE. 

Basu, Amiya, MA LLB 
Basu, Amiya Nath, BSc, BE 
Basu, A. L., aca 
Basu, A. R., msc 
Basu, Amujaksha 
Basu, Anil Kumar 
Basu, Anil Kumar, Boom 
Bose, Arun, ma 
Basu, Asananda, BME 
Basu, Asim Kumar, ma., llb. . . 
Basu, Asliim Kumar 
Basu, Ashim Kumar 
Basu, Ashit Kuraar, BCom, 
Chartered Acett. 

Basu, Arya Bhusan 
Basu, Atindra Nath, MA 
Basu, Atindra Kumar, BCom 
Basu, Basanto Kumar, bso 
Basu, Bhupendranath, BA, ACA 
Basu Bhupendra Nath 
Basu, Bibhuti Bhusan, MAAIIB 
Basu Bimal K, IACAUB 
Bireah Chandra, ma 


4 

Style or calling. 

Diet Engineer, E. Rly. 

Asstt Engineer, Associated Electrical Industries 
(India), Ltd 
Ditto 

Section Officer, Tata Iron & Steel Co Agent’s Office 
Sub Acett State Bank (Park St Br) 

Asstt Engr, Cal. Tramways Co Ltd 
Ditto 

Asstt Babcock & Wilocox of India Ltd 
Asstt Burn & Co Ltd 
Prof, Bangabasi College 
Asstt , Bank of Baroda Ltd 

Supdt Shipping Associated Electrical Industries 
(India) Pte Ltd 
Professor, Vidyasagar College 
Prof, Bangabasi College 
Prof Bongabasi College 
Professor, Vidyasagar College 

Engineer-in -charge, Associated Electrical Industries 
(India) Private Ltd. 

Asstt 1 0 I (India) Pte Ltd 

Inspector of Smoke Nuisance, Directorate Smoke 
Nuisance. 

Asstt Oil Dept Bird & Co Pte Ltd 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Administ rative, Guest Keen Williams Ltd 
Ditto 

Prof. City College (Evening) 

Ditto 

Asstt Rhe South Brit lush Insurance Co Ltd 
Ditto 
Ditto 
Ditto 

Asstt, Jardino Handerson Ltd 
Director, A. W. Figgis & Co. Private Ltd. 

Asstt Balmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Asstt A W Figgeis & Co Pte Ltd 
Ditto 

Office Asstt Advert ising Deptt Imperial Tobacco Co 
of India Ltd 
A A 0, A-G’s Office 

Electrical Inspector, Directorate of Electricity ... 
Bengal 

Asstt Prot, Presidency College 
Asstt Macniell & Barry Ltd 

Mercantile Asstt Maekinon Mackenzie & Co Pte Ltd 
Asstt personnel Advertising Deptt Imperial Tobacco 
Co of India Ltd 

Superintendent, Bengal Chamber of Commerce and 
Industry. 

Asstt Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Prol, Surcndra Nath College 
Ranking Officer, Reserve Bank of I ndia 
Asstt, Tata Iron & Steel Co Agent’s Office 
Mains Engr, CESC Ltd 

Dev Officer, State Bank of India 
Deputy Ch Engr, Martin Burn Ltd 
Asstt, Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co, Ltd 
Asstt Controller, Stationery Office 
OiTtg. A.T.M., H.O., Port Commissioners 
Asstt B B & J Constrn Co Ltd 
Asstt, London & Lancashire Ins Co Ltd 
Prof, Bangabasi College 
Engr Babcock & Wilcox of India Ltd 
Officer, Lloyds Bank, Ltd. 

Acett John Thompsi n (1) Pte Ltd 
Acett John Thompson (Ind) Pte Ltd 
Asstt Acett, Indian Cable Co Ltd 

Acctts Asstt International Combustin (I) Pte Ltd 
Ditto 

Asstt Indo Burraah Petroleum Co Ltd 
Assistant, Gillanders Arbuthnot & Co, Ltd 
Asst, Gillanders Arbuthnot & Co Ltd 
Acett, Anderson Wright. Ltd 
Indian Asstt Mercantile Bank 
Sub Aoctt R B of India 
Professor, City College (Com Dept) 


Residence or place of 
business. * 

Eastern Railway Il 0Ua 
6, Mission Row 

Ditto 

23B Netaji Sublms R„ a 
Queens Mansion 
P4 Mission Row 
Ditto 

l & 3 Bra bourne R<| 

12 Mission Row 
19, Scott Lane 
India Exchange 

13 Raj end ra Nulli Mi 
khorjeo Rd 

39, Sankar Ghose Lane 
19 Scott Lane 
25/1 Scott Lane 
39 Sankar Ghose biiuo 
6 Mission Row 

34 Chowringhee 
60B Chowringhee Rom 

Chartered Bank Binldin 
39 Sanker Gh< >se Lane 
41 Chowringlict 
Ditto 

102/1 Amherst Si 
Ditto 

10 Netaji Suhlias IM 
Ditto 
Ditto 
Ditto 

4 Clive Row. 

D6 Gillanders I louse 
21 Netaji Si i bl i as lid j 
D-0 Gillander House 
Ditto 

37 Chow ringing 

Treasury Buildings 
1 Harisli MuUkt|<c lit 


80/1, College StrM. 
2 Fairlie Plac^ 

Iff Strand Road 

Dllln 

Royal Exchaiiyr 

12 Mission Row 
24/2 Harrison Ud 
8, Council House Sin’ 

23 B Netaji Sul)ktisK 
Victoriajlousc 


3 Strand Rd 
Mercantile Building 
Iff, Strand Rornl 

3 Church Lane 
15 Strand Road 
P-13 Mission Row E v 
2 Fairlie Place 

19 Scott Lane 
Ditto 

29 Netaji Sulduw 

4 Fairlie Pla«*r 
4 Fairlie Blare 
9 Hare Street. 




5 


Names. 

t 

jjjuiu, Bires Chandra, Boom., 
pip. sw.. Cal., AMIIA., 
a sje., FBBcon. s. (Lond.) 

J*a.su > Birendra Nath (Dr.) msc 
n.Phil. 

Chittaranjan, msc 
Basil, Chittaranjan, bsc., BE., 

amie. 

Basu, Dwipendra Kumar, msc 
Basu, Harendra Nath 
Basu, Homendra Nath, MSo 
Basil, Hemanta Kumar 
Basil , Harishkesh 
Basu, Jagat Kishor© 

Bash, Jatiprasad, Mcora 
Basil, Jitondra Nath, MA 
Basu, K. C. 

Basu, Kalidas, ma 
Basu, K K 

Basil, Kamal Kumar 

Basu, Kumar Sankar 
Basil, L K ,BA 
Basil. Mono jit. ,MA 
Basu, Mihir Kumar, msc 
Basu, Mihir Ranjan, RA 

Basu. Mukul Ran jan 
Basu, Murari Mohan, BOom 
Basu, Narendra Nath 
Basu, Nildari, K. 

Basu, Niroj K, BCom ACA 
Basu, X V K 
Bose, Prabir Kumar 
Basu, R K 
Basu, R K 

Bose, Tiabindra Kumar, use*, 
dfh (London), amiee, 

Basu, Rabindranath 
Basil, Rashbohari 
Babu, S. 

Basu, S 

Basu, S. N., MSe 

Bose, Sailendra Nath, bsc, 
amie (Ind.) 

^asu, Salil Kumar, BEE 
^asu, Salit Kumar 

W Sam 

Basu, Samarendra Krishna, ma . . 

Basu, Samir Kumar, BCom ACA 

B ^°* Sanjit Kumar, DFH 
braduat© IEE 

S&uransu, ba, aca 
fcsu, S K 

Basu ' -S. K., MA (Com) , BA 
^asu, Saroj Kumar, msc 

Sarajendu 3Sc 
Satyapriya 
Sbyam Sunder 


Style or calling. 

Asstt., Bengal Chamber of Commerce 


Ash it Professor, Presidency College 

Lecturer, Surendra Nath College 
Inspector of Boilers, Directorate of Boilers 

Prof. City College 
Asstt, Bird & Co, Ltd 
Prof City College (Evening) 

Supervisor HongKong & Sanghai Banking Corpn . . 
Head Clerk Metal Doptt Martin Burn Ltd 
Asstt, Balmer Lawrie & Co, Ltd 
Professor, City College (Com Dept) 

Auditor, Eastern Railway 
Dy Financial Adviser, E. Rly 
Asstt. Professor, Presidency College 
Asstt Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 

Asstt Engr, Braithwaite Burn & Jessop Construc- 
tion Co Ltd. 

Asstt Calcutta Claims Bureau 
Asstt, Iron & Stool Contoller 
Asstt T)r of Publicity, Homo (Pub) Dept 
lecturer. Presidency College 
T)y License Officer, Corpn of Calcutta 

Engr Babcock & Wilcox of (Ind) Ltd 

Indian Asstt Mercantile Bank Ltd 

Supervisor, Rallis India Ltd 

Asstt, Macnoill & Barry 

Partner Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 

Mercantile Asstt Mackinon Mackenzie & Co Pte Ltd 

Asstt, Shaw Wallaco & Co, Ltd 

Dist Com Supdt E Rly 

Asstt 1CI (India) Pte Ltd 

Regional West Main Dept. Engineer, O E S C Ltd . . 

* 

Accfrt, international Combustion (India) Pte Ltd . . 

Asstt Industrial Deptt, Bird &■ Hedgers 

Asstt, 1(11 (Pte) Ltd 

Asstt Jan lino Henderson Ltd 

Prof, Surendra nath College 

Shift Charge Engr, C E S C Ltd 

Asstt., Mains Engr, C E S C Ltd 

Asstt Engr Associated Ele ctrical Industries (India) 
Pte Ltd 

Coach Drawing Office, Jessop & Co 
Professor, Vidyasagar College 
Asstt A/os officer Lt Rly Martin Burn Ltd 
Asstt Sub Station Engr 

Assistant, Gillanders Arbuthnot & Co, Ltd 

Com Publicity Officer, E Rly 

Asstt, Supdt, Central Tea Board 

Lecturer, City College 

Supdt of Surveys Cal Improvement Trust 

Asstt Macneill & Barry Ltd 

Asstt Burn & Co Ltd 


Residence or place of 
business. 

6, Netaji Subhas Road 

86-1, College Street 

24, Harrison Road 
1 Hastings Street 

102-1, Amherst Street 
Chartered Bank Building 
102/1 Amherst St 
31 Dalliousei Square 
12 Mission Row 
21, Netaji Subhas Road 
13, Mirzapore Street 
1 6 Strand Road 
E Rly House. 

86/1 College Street 

12 Mission Row 

PI 3, Mission Row Extn. 

5 & 7 Netaji Subhas Rd 

33 Netaji Subhas Rd 
Writors’ Buildings 
86-1, College Street 

f> Surendranal h Bancrjce 
Road. 

1 & 3 Brabourne Rd 
8 Netaji Subhas Rd 
16 Hare Street. 

2 Fairlie Place 

B-4 Gillander House 
16 Strand Road 
4 Bank shall Street 

3 Koilaghat Street 

34 Clio wring! mm* 

Victoria House, Chow- 
ringlieo Square. 

101 Park Street. 
Chartered Bank Bldgs. 
34 Chowringhce Road 

4 Clive Row 

24/2 Harrison Road. 

Victoria House, Chow- 
r inghee Square. 

Victoria House*. 

13 Rajendra Nath Mu- 
k her joe Road 
63 Netaji Subhas Road 

39 Sankar Ghose Lane 
Mercantile Buildings 

Victoria House, Chow- 
ringhee 

Clive Buildings 
Esplanade Mansion 
27 & 29 Brabourne Road. 
102-1 , Amherst Street 
10 Netaji Subhas Rd 
2 Fairlie Place 
12 Mission Row 



No. 


Names. 


6 


Residence or |,i u<t 
business. 


Style or calling. 


» 


Basil, Snehondu 
Basu Sudin Prakash, B»Se 
Ba.su Sudhandu Kumar 
Basu, Sujit Kumar, MSc 
Basu, Sunil Chandra, msc, 

Basu, Umashankar 

Basu, Suskilkumar, msc 

Basu, T K ,MA 

Basu, Tapan Kumar, MSc 

Basu, Sunil Kumar, BA 

Basu Chowdhury, Debiprosad MSe, 

Batabyal, Kumareiulra Natii 

Batabyal, Santosh Kumar, MA . . 
Batturst, CM A 
Batra, P. N. 

Baxi, Gopal Ch. 

Baksi, Sunil Kanti, bsc, oa, 
nB 

Bavdakar, Ramesli Shripad 
Beddoe EC 
Bolchar, A R 

Bennett, William Malcolm 

Bauntoa, CK 
Belchar, VC 
Bora, Sibram, msc 
B es, J. E. 

Bett, W. D. L. 

Bertram, R. G. H. 

Bhadra, M. K., ma 

Bhaduri, Param Nath, msc (Cal.) . . 


Asstt, Jardine Henderson & Co., Ltd 
Aoctt ITnited Bank of India 
Jr Asstt Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 
Lecturer, Presidency College 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Ditto 

Prof, Bangabasi College 
Prof St Xavier’s College 
Lecturer, Moulana Azad College 
Asstt Ditto 

Lecturer in Chemistry, St. Paul’s College 
Asstt Accounting Supdt, The Imperial Tobacco Co, 
Ltd 

Prof, City College, Com Dept. 

Dircotor, Shaw Wallace <fc Co Ltd 

Offg 2nd Asstt Conservator, Port Commissioners . . 

Inspr. of A/cs., H.O., Port Commissioners 

Sub -Accountant, Chartered Bank of India 


4, Clive Row 
67A Netaji Sul,l Ms 
4 Fair lie Place 

86/1 College St„, Tt 
39 Sankar Chose p 
Ditto 

19, Scott Lane 
30 Park St reel 
8 Welledy Slieet 
Ditto 

33/1 Amherst Stm- 
37, Chowringhee 

13 Mirzapon Stive 
4 Bankshall Niivi-t 
15, Strand Road 
15 Strajid RoaJ 
4 Netaji Sublia.sk, 


Mangr, Ideal ly & Gresham Ltd 
Ditto 

Asstt Jardine Henderson Ltd 

Covenanted Officer National & Graindlays Bank . 
Lloyds Branch 

Acett Imperial Tobacco Co of India 
Mains Jointer C ESC Ltd 
Professor, Vidyasagar College 

Secy, Chief Acctt. Associated Elect Industries . 
Pte Ltd 

Actg Acett, Eastern Bank Ltd 
Asstt, 1 C i (Pte) Ltd 
Professor, Bangabasi College 
Professor, Presidency College 


31 Chittanmjjui Au 
Ditto 

4 (dive Row 
29 Net aji Subli;i ( . |>, 

37 Cliowirimrlici 
Victoria 11 <mim 
39 Sankar Chose La: 
6, Mission R.)\\ 

14 Neta ji Suldias U, 
34, Chowriiigiur ko.] 
19 Scott Lane 
86-1, College Ntn t 


Bhagat, Kamal Narain 
Bhagat Vimal 
Blianduri, B. 

Bhandari, Sripal Chaml 
Bhandari Capt S L 
Bhandari, J. M. AS1AA 
Bhandari, S S 
Bhanja, S S ,BA 
Bhur Dwijendra N 
Bhar, J N 

Bliargava K. K., (Dr.) MS( >, PhD 

Bhargava, Kailash Prasad 

Bliargava, Katuesh Prasad 
BAACA (Lond)(lnd) 

Bhaskaran, S. 

Bhat, Keshab Datt, ma 
B bat, V. S., BSe (Bombay) 
Phatia, Inder Nath 
Bhatiani, A. S. 

Bhatnagore, G K 
Bhatnagar, S S, BSe MSc 
Bhatnagar Sharda Bhusan 

Bhattacharjee, A., MA 
Bhattachorjee, Achintapriya, MA 

Bhattacharjee, A K, DSE D Phil 
PRS 

Bhattacharjee, A. K. 

Bhattacharjya, Amal, ma 
B hattacherji, Amal Kumar, MSc 
JJhattaoharjya, Amiya Charan, ba 


Asstt.. Corritt Moran & Go. Private Ltd. 

Asstt James Warren & Co Ltd 

Asstt, Bird & Hedgers 

Asstt, Macneill & Barry, Ltd 

Cargo Supdt Seindia Steam N alligation Co Ltd 

Acett, Maekinon Mackenzie 

Asstt Kilbmn A r Co Ltd 

A AO, DAG P & T 

Suprr Hong Kong A: Shanghai Banking Corpu 
Asstt Indian Iron &. Steel Co Ltd 
Hd. Sugar Technologist, Karani Chand Thapar 
& Bros Pte Ltd. 

Director & Secy, International Combustion (India), 
Ltd 

Partner Price Waterhouse 
Peat Co 


9 Mission Row j 

3 1 ( 'hew riuy her Hit j 
Chartered Rank 1)1 
2, Fairhe Place 
33 Net ajj Swhlue I! 
](>, St I', Old lb >ail 
2 Fail-lie plan 1 
7 KoiliigJi.g. Stmt 
31 Dr liioiiM*’ Sc|iw 
12 Mission lk>" 

25 Braburnl lh»am 

101, Park Street 

11-1 (illlillldcl ll.iu*| 


Journalist, Statesman 
Professor, St Paul’s College 
Sec Officer, Tata Iron Ar. Steel 
Asstt, Bird & Co, Ltd 
Asstt Engr, E. lily 
Asstt Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Operation Asstt Standard Vaccum Oil Co 
Asstt Engr Associated Electt Industries (Ind) Pte 
Ltd 

Prof, Surendra Nath College 
Prof City College Evening 
Prof Surendranath College 

Assessor, Assessment Deptt, Corpn of Calcutta . . 

Asstt Professor, Presidency College 
Acctt, State Bank of India 
Sub-Acctt, Reserve Bank of India 


4, Chow mu' her >‘f 

33-1, Amherst Sti 
23B NGaji Sublias 

Chartered D^nk 

ings E Rly 
Ditto 

6 Chuu k Lane 
13 Rajendra 

kherjee Load 

24 Harrison R oa ^ 
102/1 Amher&t Stfl 
24/2 Mahatma 

Rd 

5 Suendranatb ^ 
RiOud • 

86-1, College street 

Queen’s Man^, 

8, Council Ho« s, °j 



Names. 


7 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place 
business. 


jSliattaoharjeo, Ananthanath, ma 
jtfhattacharjya, Anil Kumar, ma 
jjhat lacharjee, Bhabadeb, ma 
Bhatlaeharyya, Bidya Bhusan 

BME AMlE(lnd) 
ffhat tacharyya, Bhibhuti Bliusan, 

M Sc- (Cal) AM1E 
Bliattacharya, Bishnupada, ma 
ffli.it tacharyya, Budhadeb, Mtte 
ff hat Lacharjee, Debesh, MA 
ffluit lacharjee D N 
ffliattacharjee, Gouri Kanta, msc 
ffliattacharjee, Guru Das, ma 
ffliattacharjee, G. K. 
ffhM lacharjee, Haripada 
Bliat I acherjee, Harsh Nath 
Bhat tacharyya, Jagadish, ma 
]51int lacharjee, Jagabandhu, BA 
ffhMtacharjee, Jibesh, MA 
Bli.it tacharyya, Jibesh Cli, MSc . 
Bli.it tacharyya, K 
Blial lacharjee, Kailaslmath (T>r.), 

M A, D. PHIL (CAIj.) 
ffhattacharjya, Katyanidas, ma 
Bh.it lacharjee Kalidas, BA 
Bhi»t tacharyya, Kshitipati 


Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Professor, Presidency College 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Lect. Calcutta Technical School 

Eugr & Salesman H rally Gresham Ltd 

Prof, Bangabasi College 

Demons St Xavier’s College 

Led- Gocnka College of Com & Business 

Secy to G M E lily 

Professor, Vidyasagar College 

Professor, Scottish Church College 

Asstt, 1C1 (Pte) Ltd 

Jr Asstt Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 

Asstt Calcutta Claims Bureau 

Prof, Bangabasi College 

Eire Supdt Caledonian Insurance Co 

Prof, City College, Com Dept. 

Prof City College (Evening) 

Mareant ile Asst t Maekinon Mackenzie Co Ltd 
Asstt l^of, Presidency College 

Asstt Prof, Presidency College 

Sr Hd Asstt Dept of Health W B Medical (Br) 

Asstt Industrial Dept Bird & Co Pte Ltd 


Bhat ta'-haryya, Malin Kumar, BA. 
ffhattacharjoe, Manindra Nath, ma 
lihal lacharjee, N 
Bli.it lacharjee. Nirmal 
Bli.it lacharjee, Nirmal Krishna, 
BME (Hons), G 1 Moeli E (Loud). 
IJliat.tacharjya, Noni Gopal, ma . . 
Blmtt.aenarjee, P K 
Bhat lacharjee, Paroshnalh, ma . . 
Bliat lacharjee, Paramesh Oh, msc 
Bli;t! t.icliarjee, Pashupnti, BA 
Bhattacharjya, Patanjali, ma 


Bhattiicharjya, Phanindra Natli, 

MA 

Bhat lacharjee, Prithwish, BBom 
ACA 

Bli.iltacharji, liam Kumar, msc 
Blial tacharjya, Kam Kishore, 
licom 

Bhat tacharyya, Ham Kishore 
Bhatlacharya, Ham Prosad, msc 


Bhat tachorjee, Ran jit Moll on, bme 
Bhat tacharyya, 8 
Bh.d lacharjee Sailesli Ch, ma 
Bhu tacharyya, 8ailendra Nath 
B A 

MuUurtiarjoe, Sarabhu 
llli.u hu-licirjci!, Samir Chandra, 
llNc 

llh.iUiirharjeo, S. K. BA. 
JUiattacharjoo, S. K. 

“Imt tacharyya, 8 N 
li'ili.icharjoo. Santosli Kumar, 
HEE 

jlli.ittacharjya, Satchidananda . . 
it lacharjee, S P 

'■■I •* lacharjee, Shyamadas, MSc 


Hut. tacharyya, Shyamapada, msc 
wtacharya, Sibaprasad, MA, . . 
r >. pbil 

S’ lUa, liarjce, S N 
“ui. lacharjee SC 
ltta( 'baryya Sitanath ,BSc . . 


B \lA a ° haryya> Sourendra Natl 

fc^-jya, Sukumar, ma 
W af , a< ‘ al 'J ey . Subodh Ranjan 

Bhat tacJ!arji S s^“ Kumari 




Sub-Acctt, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt. Audit officer, Eastern Railway 
Asstt Labour Commissioner West Bengal 
Asstt James Warren & (Jo Ltd 
Engr, J. H. Fenner & Co (India) Ltd 

Professor, St Paul’s College 
Ditto 

Asstt Prof, Presidency College 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Asstt Audit Officer Eastern Railway 
Bengali Translator to the Government of Most. 
Bengal. 

Professor, Surendra Nath College 

Asstt Price Watershouse Peat & Co 

Professor, Surendra. Nath College 
A-sstt, Lovelock and Lewis 

Asstt Maeneill and Barry Ltd 

lecturer in Chemistry, St Paul's Cathedral Mission 
College 

Ixjc, Cal Tech School 
Ditto 

Lee, Moul&na Azad College 
Indian Asstt Mercantile Banks Ltd 

Sub-Acctt, Reserve Bank of India 
Ditto 

Manager, Agency Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Ex. Engr., H.O., Port Commissioners 
Administrative Guest keen, Williams Ltd 
Inspector of factories W B Directorate* of Factories 

Accountant, Burmah -Shell O S & D Co of India, Ltd 
Asstt Acotts officer AG Bengal 

Tech Maria gr Calcutta Industrial Chemicals end 
Minerals Co Pte Ltd 
Prof, Bangabasi College 
Prof, Bangabasi College 

Asstt I C I (India) Pte Ltd 
Asstt Controller of Stores, E Rly 
Demonst of Physics St Pauls Cathedral Mission 
College 
Ditto 

Asstt, Lovelock and Lewis 

Sub Acctt State Bank (Park St Br) 

Professor, City College (Commerce) 

Dist Eng (P L), E Rly 


39, Kankar Chose Lane 
86-1, College Street 
Vidyasagar College 
110 Surendra Nath 
Bancrjce Hoad 
31 Chitturanjan Avenue 

11), Scott Lime 
JO Park St 
210 Boxvhazar Street 
E Rly House 
39, Shankar Gboso Lane 

3, Cornwallis Square 
34, Chowringhec Road 

4 Fairlic Place 

5 & 7 Nctaji Subhas Hd 
19, Scott Lane 

B-J (iillandcr House 
13 Mirzapur Street. 

102/1 Amherst St 
16 Strand Hoad 
86/1, College Nt.ieet 

86/1, College Streot 
Writers Buildings 
Chartered Bank Build- 
ings 

8, Council House Street. 
16, Strand Hoad 

1 Hustings Nt reet 
31 Chowringhec Rd 
Mercantile Bldgs, Lal- 

bazar. 

33-1, Amherst Street 
Ditto 

86 /J , College Street 
39, Shankar Chose Lane 
16 Strand lid 
Writers’ Buildings 

24 Harrison Road 

B-4 Gdlauder House 

24, Harrison Road 

4, Lyons Range 

2 F airhe Place 
33/1, Amherst Street 

J 10, S N Bauer jee Rd 
Ditto 

5, Wellesley Street 

8 Nctaji Subhas Rd 

5, Council House Street 

Ditto 

6, Church Lane 
15 Strand Road 
41 Chowringhee Rd 
New Secretariat* s Builds 

Hong Kong House 
Treasury Buildings 
43 Dharamtolla tttree* 

19, Scott Lane 
19 Scott Lane 

Chowringhee 

Ditto 

33/1 Ahnicrst Street 
Ditto 

4, Lyons Range 
Queens Mansion 
13 Mirzapnr Street 
38 Chowringhee Road. 



No. Names. 

Style or calling. 


Residence or pi^ 
business. 

UhoHC, P 

Asstt l C I (India) Pte Ltd 


34 Chowring}) ce. 

Bhosc. Tarun Kumar 

Asstt Burn &. Co Ltd 


12 Mission Row 

Bhowmiek Bojon 

Asstt James Finleys & Co Ltd 


2 Netaji Subhas J{ () 

Bhowmiek, J H, Mttc 

Prof St Xavier’s College 


30 Park St 

Bhowal Rabindra. Nath 

Mechanical Drawing Office Jessop & Co Ltd 


63 Netaji Subhas R u 

Bhowmik, Copal, MA 

Public Relation officer Home (Pub) Dept 


Writer’s Buildings 

Bhowmie, Nil Kainal, ukk, 

AM1E 

Asstt. Mains Engineer, C E S C, Ltd 


Victoria House, q 
ringhce Square. 

Bliowniio, Nirmalya Prasad, msc, 

DII SC, A MIRE. 

Ast.t. Engr, Associated Electrical Industries 
Ltd 

(India), 

6, Mission Row 

Bhowmie, Prabodh Kumar, msc 

Piof, Bangabasi College 

. . 

19, Scott Lane 

Bhuniya, Swadesh Bhusan, MA 

Prof, City College (Evening) 

. . 

102/1 Amherest Stive 

Bhusrey Prannafti 

Sr Sales Asstt, GE(- 


6 Chittaranjan Avenu 

Bir, G, 

Asstt Supdt, The Bengal Chamber of Commerce . . 

Royal Exchange 

Birla, Gajanan 

Birla Brothers Ltd. 


8 India Exchange 

Bissa, K. M. BCOM, LLB 

Indian Chamber of Commerce 


23B Netaji Subhas Kc 

Biswas, A. B. 

Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 

. . 12 Mission Row 

Biswas, A. Iv. 

Asstt, Turner Morrison & Co Pte Ltd 


6 Lyons Range 

Biswas, Abani, MA 

Prof, Bangabasi College 


25/1 Scott Lam* 

Biswas, A. K., BA, 

Ofl’r., United Bank of India Ltd 

•• 

67A Netaji Subhas llo 

Biswas Ashutosh 

Asstt, Burn & Co Ltd 


12 Mission lhm. 

Biswas, Birondra Nath 

Asstt. Aoctt, Associated Electrical Industries (India) 
Pte Ltd 

13 liujeiidm Xt 

Mukherjee Read 

Biswas, Biswanath 

Civil Engr, Mackintosh Burn, Ltd 


8, Netaji Suhluis lload 

Biswas, Dilip Kum u\ ma 

Asstt Prof, Presidency College 


86/1, College Si reel 

Biswas, TI. 

Jr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 


4 Fairlie Place 

Biswas, Jagadiswar 

Asstt Acett, Associated Electrial Industries 

(India) 

13 Rajemini Nath 11 ul 


Pto Ltd 


orjee Road. 

Biswas, Leslie, ma 

Professor, St Paul's College 


33-1, Amherst Street 

Biswas, Muni Bhusan, BA 

Supdt, R B of India 


8 Council Bouse Strut 

Biswas, M rinal Kumar, ma (com) 

Asstt, Lovelock & Lewis 


4, Lyons Range 

Biswas, Pronoto Kumar MOT 

Engr, Babcock & Wilcox of (lnd) Ltd . . 


1 & 3 Bra bourne Kojd, 

Biswas, Sauren 

Asstt. Engr Dept, Bird & (Jo Pte Ltd . . 


Chartered Bank JtoiW* 
ings. 

Biswas, 11. N. 

Asstt Com Supdt, E Rly 


3 Koilaghat Street, i 

Biswas S. N. 

By Controller of Stores E Rly. 


E. Rly. House 

Biswas, Susanta Kumar, msc 

Lecturer, St Paul’s College 


33/1, Amherst Street 

Blackburn, R. 

Asstt, Water & Chemical Pte Ltd 


Ditto. 

Blanchette, Lennard Eugene 

Engr International Construction (India) Pte Ltd . . 

101 Park Street 

Blight, J.W. 

Asstt, Industrial Dept, Bird & Co Pte Ltd 


Ditto. 

Boal, Pravin, BCOM, CA 

Asstt Acctt, Allahabad Bank Ltd 

. . 

14 India Exchange ^ 

Bondville, H. V. 

Asstt, James Finlay & Co Ltd 


2 Netaji Subbas ^ 

Bouft'aer, Philip George 

Asstt, Jardine Henderson, Ltd 

•• 

4, Olive Ro’v 

Brahmachari, Gopal Krishna, 
MSC 

Prof, Bangabasi College 


25/1 Scott Lw 1( ' 

Bowie, J. C. A. 

Asstt. Jardine Henderson Ltd 

. . 

4 Clive Bow. 



Names. 

Broughton, B. E. Peroival 

Branch Ronald Edward 

Brewster, lan Alfred 

Brown Charles Aurtlier aaoca, 
f ccs(UK) aios (India) 

Brock John Callingwood 

Bromley, Robert Carl 

Broom, W. S. 

Broughton B. E. P. 

Brown, Hugh 

Bruce James 

Bryans, J. W. 

Bur man, Narayan Chandra MSC 
Burroughs, W. A. 

Burt, VV. 

C 

(’anion >n, Andrew James 
Lipstick, Herbert Gordon 

Lira pint, Stephen 
(ampiot, T. A. 

Login, D. F. 

Cargill, Cecil Edwin 
Carter, 1). H. M. 

Carter, L. 

Carver, George Albert, bso, 

AMIMii 

Casey James 

Chadha Mohan Lall, ba aca 
Chaki, Manindra Chandra 
Chaki, ltabindra Nath 

Chaki >, 1. G. 

Chakra varty, A. K. MA 
Chakravarti, A K, ma 
f'hakraborty, Am»l Kumar MSC 
^hakravwty, A. C. 

^akravartty, A. C., BCOM, 
ASAA, ACA. 

Ajit Kumar, 

BCOM.ACA 


9 

Style or calling. 

Director, Graham Trading Co (Pto), Ltd 
Chief Acctt Gestetner Duplicators Pte Ltd 
Cal Director, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Dirootor, Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 

Director Brooke Bond (India) Pto Ltd 
Director, Alfred Herbert (India) Private Ltd. 
Asstt Kilbum & Co Pto Ltd 

Shipping Manager, Turner Morrison & Co Pto Ltd . . 

Wagon Drawing Office, Jossop & Co. . . 

Director Stewards & Lloyds of India Pte Ltd 

Mg Director, A W Foggis & Co. Private Ltd. 

Loot, l*roaidoncy College . . . . .... 

Administrative & Liaison Officer, Brooke Bond 
India Pte Ltd 

Asstt Stewarts & Lloyds of India Pto Ltd 


Asstt, Williamson Magor & Co, Ltd 

Manager, Merchandise Deptt., Associated Electrical 
Industries (India) Private Ltd. 

Manager C & ¥ Dept, James Warren & Co Ltd 

Sr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 

Asstt, Oit Dept, Bird & Co Pte Ltd 

Member, Board of Management, Jossop Co, Ltd . . 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 

Asstt. Turner, Morrison & Co Ltd 

Asstt Gillandors Arbuthnot & Co Ltd 

Asstt, Jute Mills Deptt, Bird and Hedgers 

Asstt Bird & Co (Pto) Ltd 
Lecturer, Calcutta University 
Elect Engr, Octavious Steel Co Ltd 

Ex Engr, Port Commissioners 
Prof Surendra Nath College 

District Sales Manager, Standard Vacuum Od Co 
Lect, Presidency College 

Partner, S. R. Batliboi & Co, Ltd. • • 

Prof, St Xaviers College . . • • — 

Asstt, Prico Waterhouse Peat & Co •*» 


Residence or place of 
business. 

6, Lyons Range 
9A Esplanade East 
4 Bankshall Street 
2 Metcalfe Street 

2 Metcalfe Street 
13/3 Strand Road 
2 Fairlio Place 
6 Lyons Range 
63 Netaji Subhaft Road. 
41 Chowringhee Road 
D-6 Gillander House 
86/1 College St 
2 Met calfe Street 

41 Chowringhee Road 

4, Mangoe l^ano 
6 Mission Row 

31 Chowringhee Road 
4 Fairlio Place 
Ditto. 

63, Netaji Subhas Roads 
4 Bankshall Street 
6 Lyons Range. 

Gillander House 

Chartered Bank Build- 
ings. 

Chartered Bank Budding 

Senate House 

14 Old Court House 
Street. 

15, Strand Road 

24 Harrison Road 

6, Church Lane 

86/1 College St 

IB, Old Post Office 
Street. 

30 Park Street. 


B-4 Gillander House 



No. 


Names, 


10 

Style or calling, 


Reeidenoe or pl^ 
business' 


Chakra vartty, Anutosh, ma, llb 
C hakraborty, A run Kumar MA 
Chakra borty, Arun 
Chakraborty, Arun Kanti, 
B COM 

Chakravarti, Ashutosh, ma, caitb 
Chakraborty, Arun Kanti 
Chakra vartty Beduin, ma 
( Jhakravarty, Biblmti Bhusan 
( 'hakra borty, Bibhuti Bhusan 
Chakraborty, Bilap Kr., MSC 
Chakraborty, Biros war, MSC 
Chakravarty, Dilip Kr, ma 
Chakravarty, Durgasaran, ma 
(Triple), IjIjB 

Chakravarty, Gangesh, MA 
( 'hakra borty, Copal Chandra 
Cliakraborty, Copal Krishna 
BMW 

Chakra vartty, Copal Lai, ma 

Chak ra vartty liar ipada, ma, uu 
C hakravarty, llem.mta Kumar, 
MA, UJi 

Cliakrabort v, Ueramba Chan- 
dra, MA 

Cliakraborty, ILrishikcsh, BCOM 
CAJIB 

Chakravarty, ILrishikcsh, moom . . 

( iiakra borty, J . N. 

Chakraborty, Jnancndra Copal 
MSC OBI 11 L 

Chakravarti, Kalipada, msc 
Chakraborty, Ka-lvan Kumar, 
MA 

Cliakraborty , Iv. ( ■. 

Cliakraborty, K. L. ma Boom 
Chakraborty, M . C. 

Chakravarti, Madhusudan, MS e . . 
Chakraborty, Manilal, MA 
Chakravarty, Manmdra Kr, ma . . 
Cliakrabarty, Manindra Math, 
ii, Mecii e. 

Chakravarti, Nalini Mohan, ma 
(Phil). ma (Eng). 

(Cliakraborty, Nurendra Chandra 
Chakravarti, Narcsli Chandra, MA 
Chakravarty, Nirunjan 
Chakraborty, N. K. 

Chakravarti, Nirendra Ch. 

Chakra vartty, Nirednranath he 
AMI E 

Chakraborty, N. it. 

Chakravarti, Panchanan, ma 
Chakravarti, Panchanan, ma 
Chakravartty, Parbati Pada amie 
Chakravarty, Phani Bhusan BE., 
CH. 

Cliakrabarty, Ik N. 

Chakravartty, Pravat Nath msc 
Chakraborty, Prasanta Kumar 

I\rsc, MS EE (CSA) 
Chakravartty, Priyabrata bee 
(Hons) 

Chakravarti, Puma Chandra, msc: 
Chakravarty, P. C., ma 
Chakravarti, Kabindra Nath, ma 
Cliakrabarty, Kabindra Natli 

Chakraborty, Kabindra Nath, 
BEE 

Chakravarti, Kabindra Nath, mso 
C hakravarty, Kamakaiita, MA 
Chakravarti, Ramendra Krishna, 

BA 

Chakravarty, Rameslichandia, ma 
Chakraborty, S. K. 

/ 


Lecturer, Goenka College of Commerce 
Sains T)opt, Tndo Burma Petroohim Co Ltd 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Sub-Acett, The Chartered Bank 

Sub-Acett, Reserve Bank of India 
Sub Acctt, The Easern Bank Ltd 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Accountant, Jessup & Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Burn & Co Ltd 
Dornonst, City College 

Deiiionst, St Paul’s Cathmlral Mission College 
Prof, City College (Com Dept.j 
Professor, Vidyasagar College 

Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Shipping Manager, Upton’s India Ltd 
Chief Service Engr, Babcock & Wilcox ol (ln<l ) Ltd 

Asstt Professor, Presidency College 

Commercial Asstt.., Voltas Ltd 
Professor, Vidyasagar College 

Prof, Bangabasi College 


210 Bowbazar Street 
Gillander House 
4 Bankshall Stio<>t 
4 Netaji Subha, s f ( 

8, Council House jj t 
14 Netaji Subhah ];, 
39, Sankar GhosJ, i 
03, Netaji Sul,I l;iiS j 
12 Mission Rn w 
102/1 Amherst ,Sn, T 
33/1 Amherst Street 
13, Surya Sen Strep 

39, Sankar Ghosh La 

39, San far Ghosh La 
9 Weston Street 
1 & 3 Brabouiue 1 ;, 

80/1 College Street 
8 Netaji Nuhlu,, Itoa 
39, Sankar Ghosli La 

25/ 1 Seott Lam* 


OiTr, Central Bank of India Ltd 

Prolessor, (htv (College (Commerce) 

Asstt-, I C l (India) IMe Ltd 
Prof, Bangabasi College 

Lecturer, Stirondra Nath College 
Lect, St Paul’s Cathedral Mission College 

Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Asstt Supdt. ('central Tea Board 
Asst f, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Prof, City College 
Jjoeturer, Moulana Azad College 
Prof, City College 

Sr Engr, Paterson Eng Co (India) Pte Ltd 

Professor, City College (Commerce) 

Seey, Airways India Ltd 
Prolessor, Presidency College 
Genl Works, Jessup & Co, 

Asstt, Kilburn & Co Ltd 
Professor, City College (Commerce) 

Elec Insp, Directorate of Electricity 

Mercantile Asstt-, Maekinou Mackenzie & Co Ltd 

Pn dosser, City College (Com Dept) 

Lecturer, Calcutta University 
Inspector of Boilers, West Bengal 
Asstt Engr, Calcutta, improvement Trust 


10 Lindsay St net 

13 Mir/apur Stm t 
34 Chowrmghcc 
25 ; 1 Scot t Lane 

24, Harrison Road 
33/1 Amherst Stmt 

12 Mission Row 

137 & 29 Bnihoimud! 

4 (-live Row 

102- 1 , Amherst Street 

5 Wellesley Shin*! 
102/1 Amherst SI. 
21 Theatre Road 

13 Mirzupur Street 
31 Chit taraiij.in Awi 

80- 1 , ( loiiogr Mivr* 

03, Ne.tti.ji Suhlias U 
2 Pair lie Plan' 

13 Mirzaj)ur Stmt 
1 HarishMukhcrjrtR 

lb Strand Road 

13, Mirzapmo 
Senate llou.se 
1 Hastings 8tn*ct 
10, Netaji SuLbiiS I*'’ 


Assistant Indian Explosive Ltd . . 34 Chowring] ice 

Professor. Bangabasi College . . 19 Scott Lam . 

Dist. Engr Mains Dept-, Calcutta Electric- Supply Victoria lloii^ 1 
Corpn Ltd 

Asstt Mains Engr, C E S C Ltd . . Victoria 

Professor, City College (Com Dept) . . 13, Mir/.apore StrwV 

Asstt, Purcliase Dept, Indian Aluminium Co, Ltd 31, Chovvringm’ ( 
Professor, Surendra Nath College . . 24, Harrison UHl 

Contract Engr, Associated Electrical Industries 6 Mission Lov* 
(India) Pte Ltd , 

Eloc Ins, Dir of Electricity . . . . 1 Harish MuL 1( 


Lecturer, St Paul’s College 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 

Prof, Vidysagar College 
Asstt, Macneill & Barry Ltd 


.. 33/1 Amherst 

. . 39, Sankar OhodP 

. . 8, Council House d 

.. 39, Sankar Glw*’ 1 '*' 

% Fairlio Piace 



Names. 


11 

Style or oaliing. 


Chakravarti, Sailendra Nath, ma, 
rhD. 

Chakraborty, Santi Ranjan MA 
Chakraborty, Saileiulra Nath, ma 
(D acca) 

Chakravarti, Satindranath, ma . . 
Chakraborty, S. C., BA 
Chakravarti, Satyeah Chandra, ma 
Chakravartty, Sourindra Nath 

Chakravarti, Sudhansu Cooinar 
HE, CE 

Chakraborty, S. K. 

(hakravartty, S. M. 

Chakravarty, Sudhangsu Ranjan, 
BMW A.M.I.E. (Lond.) 
Chakraborty, Sushil Kanjan 

Chakraborty, Sukhamoy 
(Chakravarti, Tarakumar msc run 
Chakravarti, Tarapada, ma 
Chambers, 1\ D. Huxford 
Chakravarti, Tridib Kanjan 
Chant ly, Joseph 
Chandra, A. N. 

Chandra, D K. 

(Chandra, Dilip Kumar he 
C handra, Kali Sadi 1 an, mso 
Chandra, Balia Nolin, ba 
Chandra Sekliar, Chongat Go*, ind, 

MA 

Chundra Shahani m com llb 


Asstt Professor, Presidency College 

Asstt Secy, Bengal National Chamber of Commerce 
Asstt, Tata Iron & Steel Co Ltd Agent's Office 

Professor, Oily College 
Asstt Supdt, Tea Board 
Asstt Prof, Presidency College 

Jr Officer, Life Ins Corpn of India, Hindus! ban 
Co-op Ins Society 

Assistant V T aluer, Calcutta Improvement Trust 

Engr Guest Keen Williams Ltd 
Asstt, I C 1 (India) Pte Ltd 
Inspector of Factories, West Bengal 

Circle Asstt, Sales Dept, The Imperial Tobacco Co of 
India Ltd 

Prof, Presidency College 
Locturor, Presidency College 
Professor, City College (Com Dept) 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co. Lid 
Engr, Babcock & Wilcox of (Ind) Ltd 
Aeett Balmer, Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Asstt Kilburn, & Co. Pt e Ltd 

Asstt, Alkali & Chemical Corporation of India, Ltd. 
Mains Engr, C E S C, Lid 
Professor, Surondra Nath College 
Asstt Audit Officer, E Rly 

Asstt Secretary, Indian Chamber of Commerce 
Asstt, Burmah Oil Co India Trading (Ltd) 


Chandra, Kabindra, MSC 
Clumrasekar, Ganji Gunto 
( Chandrasekhar, Pushpagiri 
Yaidvanath. 

Chandra Sekhar, M. 

Chanduwadia Jehonbux 
Shavksha, b com ka asaa 
Chandax arkar, K. P. 

Chari, R. S. 

Chan, B. K. 

Chaiy, Trivengada Srinvausa 

Chaturvedi, Girisli Chandra, 
MA, LLB 
Chat terjee, B 

Chat t. raj, A jit Kumar, ma 
Chatter ji, Amalendu, h com aca 
ChaUerjec, Amalesh, msc, i> Phil 
Chat tor joe, Amarendra Nath 
Chat terjee, Ainiya Bhusan 
Cluilterji, Anil 


Guitiorjee, Anup 
CJ (Mech), E (Und) 


Kuma 


Giattorjee, A. N., BME AMME 

Chatter joe 


Ciatmrjee 
Cliatlcrjoo 
^ hut t <>i|oe 


’joe, Arnab Nath 


Ban Bohari 
Banshidhar 
Baidyanath, BEE 


»at Baranashi 
^•uitt(Tj(M*, B. Jv 


. Balai 

Birendra K., MA 
dhandra Nath 


( ’liatt.erjf»o, 

CiattnrjfH*, mr 
bhatterj,, Char 
Chat tori oe I) 

nittf *rji , Dhirondra Nath, msc 
u Debi Prosad, MA 
Cl V ^ ^^ na ^ an dhu 

f^'Utam, MA 

C’h Gurupras^d 

^attrrjcie, Q. S 


MS0 

ih Haripada, msc, di 


dphil 


Demr., Presidency College 

Engr, Associated Electrical Industries (India), Ltd. 
Asstt- Mains Engr, G JO S C, Ltd 

Personnel Officer, E Klv 
Aeett, Scindia Steam Navigation Co Ltd 

Mercantile Asstt, Maokinon Mackenzie \ Co 
Personal Offioor, E. Kly. 

Asstt, Burn & Co Ltd 

Contract Engr 1 , Associated Electrical Industries (Ind) 
Pte Ltd 

Asstt , Dunlop ltubbor Co (India) Pte Ltd 

Meeh Engr, E Kly 

Professor, Suren dranath College 

Professor, City College (Commerce) 

Professor, Vidyasagar College 
Asstt, Burn Co Ltd 
Asstt Prof, Presidency College 

Asstt Engr, Associated Electrical Industries (India), 
Ltd. 

Inspector of Factories, West Bengal 

Engineer, Indian Aluminium Co, Lid. 

Imperial Tobacco Co, India Ltd 
Asstt, James Warren & Co Ltd 
Engr, Babcock tV Wilcox of (Ind) Ltd 
Inspector of factories. West Bengal 
Actg Aeett , Bank of Baroda. Ltd 
Asstt 1 C 1 (India) Pte Ltd 
Administration, Guest Keen William Ltd 
Left, Goenka College of Com & Business adnin 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson, Ltd 
Asstt , Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Dist Mcch Engr, E Kly 
Asstt Prof, Presidency Collego 
Prof, City College 
Supdt, State Bank of India. . 

Prof, Surendranath College 
Chief Aeett, Anderson Wright & Co 
Asstt I C I (India) Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Prof Suren dra Nath College 
Lecturer, Presidency College 


Residence or pl&oe of 
business. 

86-1 College Street 

P/1 l Mission Row Extn. 
22 B Netaji Subhas Road 

1 02- 1 , Amherst Street 
14 Brabourne Road. 

80-1 College Street 
1 Chittaraujan Avenue 

It), Netaji Subhas Road 

41 Chowrnghoo 
24 Chowrignghee 
1, Hastings Street 

27 Chowringhee 

SO/1 College Street 
80-1, College Street 
12, Mirzapore Street 
L Bankshall Street 

1 & 2 Brabourne Load 

21 Netaji Subhas Road 

2 Fairlio Place 
24 Chowringhee 
Victoria House, 

21, Harrison Road 
10, Strand Road 

22B, Netaji Subhas Rd, 

-8/20 India Exchange 
Place 

80/1 College Street 
0, Mission Row 
Victoria House, Chow- 
r higher Square. 

E, I My House 

22 Ni‘taji Subhas Road 

1 6 St rand Road 
Eastern Railway House 
12 Mission Row 
12 Rajendra Nath Mu- 
kherjee Road 
. r >7B Free School Street. 

E Kly House 
24, Harrison Road 
12 Mirzapur Street 
Vidyasagar College 
12 Mission Row 
80/1 College Street 
0, Mission Row 

1 Hastings Street 

21, Chowringhee Road 
27, Chowringhee Road 

2 1 Chow ringhee Road 
1 X’ 2 Bra ho u rne Road 
I Hast ings St reel, 

Tndia Exchange Calcutta 

24 < Ihowringhoo 

41 Chow ringhee Road 
210 Bow 'bazar Street 
4, Clive Row 
12 Msission Row 
E. Rly. House 
NO 1 , ( -ollege St let fc 
102/1 Amherst Street 

25 Strnad Road 
24 Harris *n Rond 
7 Wellesley Place 
24 Chowringhee 

4 Clive Row' 

24 Harrison Road 
86-1, College Street 



Namee. 


12 


Rtaidenoe or p]^ 
business. 


No. 


Style or calling. 


Chattarjee, Hemendralal, ma 
C hatterji, Herambanath, ma 

Chatterjee, J. 

Chatterjee, Jagadish Ch. 

Chatter joe, Jyotiprakash 
Chat terjee, K. C. 

Chatterji, Kali Narayan 
Chatterjee, Kanailal 
C'hatterjee, Kanan 
( Tat ter jee, Krishna poda, MSO 
Chatter joe, Ksliet ra Gopnl, MA . . 
Chatterjee Lakshmi Narayan 
BCom A C A 
Chattel jee, M 

Chatterjee, Manindra N., MA 
Chatterji, Naliniranjan, MA 
( -hatter jee, N. (J. 

Chatterjee Nani Copal ba (Hons) 
lnr sw. 

Chatterjee, Nani Gopal 
Chatterjee, N. K. 

Chatterji, Nilratan, ba 
C hatterjee, Ninnal Ch, MA 
Chatterjee, Ninnal K., ma 
Chat terjee, Pankaj 
Chatterjee, Phalli Bhusan 
Chatterjee, Phunizuadhab, BSe 
(Cal) BSc (Eng'G) (B1LU) amik 
(India). 

Chatterjee, Phatik Chandra (Dr) 
MSc, DPhil 

Chatt el jee, Prabir Kumar, MSC . . 
Chatterjee, Priya Kuinar, BCOM 
rhatterjeo, Profnlla Prusun, msc 


Prof, City College 
Lecturer, Sanskrit College 

Asst Accts Officer, E Rly . . 

Asstt Ex Engr H O Port Commissioner 
Asstt, Vanghar Bush Crane Co Ltd Martin Bum Ltd 
Asstt, Com Supdt, E Rly 
Acctt Hoare Miller & Co Ltd 
Legal Asstt, Brooke Bond India Pto Ltd 
Asstt, Burn & Co Ltd 
Prof, Bangabasi College 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Acctt, Paterson Eng Co (India) Pto Ltd 


102/1 Amherst St. 
IB, Bankim Ch a tt 
Street. 

E Rly House 
1 5 Strand Road 
Mercantile Building 
3 Koilaghat Street 
5 Eairlie Places 
2 Metcalfe Street 
12 Mission Row 
10 Scott Lime 
30 Sankar Gho.sl, U 
21 Theatre Road 


Asst Engr., Port Commissioners 
Prof, St Paul’s Cathedral Mission College 
Prof.. Bangabasi College 
Asstt P Officer, E Rly 
Labour Officer, Labour Commissioner 


15 Strand Road 
33/1 Amherst, Street 
10 Scott Lane. 

E Rly House 
New Secretariat 


Asstt, M E Doptt, Martin Bum Ltd 
Asstt Acctts, Officer, A G Bengal 
Sub- Acctt, Reserve Bank of India 
Lecturer, Presidency College 
Lecturer, Moulana Azad College 
Asstt, James Finlay & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Burn & Co Ltd 
Inspector of Factories 


Mercantile Buildup 
Treasury Building 
8, Council House Stroe 
80/1 College St nvt 
8, Wellesley Street, 

2 Notuji Subhas Re.ul 
12 Mission Row 
I Hastings Street 


Asst. Prof., Presidency College 


80/1, College Street 


Loot, Presidency College 
Tax Expert, Lovelock & Lewis 
Lee, Calcutta Technical School 


80/ 1 College St m*t 
4 Lyons Range 

1 It), S. IS . LillU I MV ][, 


D 1'HIL 

Chatterjee, Pulin Behari 
("hat. ter jee, II. 

Chatterjee, R. N. 

Chatter joe, llabindra Chandra, 
MA 

Chatterji, Radha Kanta, Bt^om 
CAIIB 

Chatterjee, Ram Narayan 
Chatterji, Ramosh Chandra 
Cliatterjee, Raj Kumar 

Chatterjee, S. C. 

Chatterjee, S- C., MSc 
Chatterji, S. K- 
Chatterji, Santi Kumar, mso 
Cliatterjee, San tosh Kr., MA, 
LLB 

Chatterjee, Sarol Kumar, MA 
Chatterjee, Sat chit Kumar 
(flatter jee, Sashi Kumar, MA 
Chatterjee, Satyabrata, MSC 
Chatterjee, S. N., BA 
Cliattorji, Satyasaran, ma 
Cliatterje. Shayamal Kr, MA 
Chatterjee, Siulhakar, MA, 
D.Phil 

Cliatterjee, Sujit Kumar, BA 

( )} i a tt erj < , Sek harendra M < >han , 
MSC! 

(flatter jee, Sukumar, BCOM 
( 'hatter jee, S. N. 

Chatterji, S. P. 

Chatterjee, S. R. 

Chatterji, Taraknath, ma 
Chatterjee, Tarun Kumar, MSC 
Chaturvedi, S. C. BCOM 


A/1 Head Office, Port Commissioners of Cal 
Asstt-, Shalimar Paint, Colour & Y'arnisli Co Ltd 
Chief Cashier, E Rly 

Jr Ex Officer, Bengal National Chamber of 
Commerce 

Supdt (Offg). R B of India 

Asstt Engr, B B & J Construction Co Ltd 
Sr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 
Asstt to Personnel Director, Imperial Tobacco Co 
of India Ltd 

Asstt, J Thomas & Co Pto Ltd 

Asstt Acctts Officer, Office of the Sr D A-G, P & T 

Dist Signal & Tele Cum Engr, E Rly 

Prof, Bangabasi College 

Prof, City College (Evening) 

Prof, St Xaviers' Collego 
Coach Drawing Office, Jcssop & Co 
Staff Asstt, Bank of India 
Lecturer, Moulana Azad College 
Dy Labour Commissioner, West Bengal 
Lecturer. Geonka College of Commerce 
Lecturer, Moulana Azad College 
Asstt Prof, Moulana Azad College 

Asstt Acctt, National & Grindlays Bank Ltd, Lyods 
Branch 

Prof, City Collage (Evening) 

Asstt-, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 
Asstt Accts Officer, E Rly 
Dy. Chief P. O., Eastern Rly 
Asstt Controller of Stores, E Rly 
Professor, City College 
Lect, St Paul’s Cathedral Mission Collego 
Asstt Acctt, Allahabad Bank Ltd 


Chaturvedi, M. . . Dist Com Supdt, E Rly 

Chaudhuri, Ajoy Kumar, msc . . Lecturer, Calcutta Technical School 

. . Asstt, Bum & Co 


15 Strand Ro«ul 
0 Lyons Range 
Eastern Rjy, IIoum* 

I*- 11 Mission Row 

8, Council House Strec 1 

I*- 13 Mission How Kit 
4 Fair lit* Place 
37 Chowringlioe 


8 Mission Row 
7, Koilaghat Street- 

Eastern Rl) • 1 lease- 
11), Scott Lane 
102/1 Amherst Street- , 


30 Park Street, 

03 Netaji Su hlui* b ()ii 
3 Strand Ib»-d 
8, Wellosly Str^ 
l Hastings Nimot 
210, Bow bazar Street 
8, Wel!es!\ Stiect 
8 Wellesley S f iuot 


29 Netaji Suhlutf & 

102/1 Amherst 

B/4 Gillandcr H” 0 * 
E Rly House 
Eastern Rly House 

E Rly House 

102-1, Amherst bt 

33/1 Amlmrst- 8H 
14B India ExeJiaflfc 

Place . 

o street 


Chaudhuri, Anilendra Nath 



Karnes. 


13 


Residence or place of 

business. 


Style or calling. 


(Iiaiidhuri, Ashoke Deb 
[luiiidhuri, Atindra, BCOM, AC A 
gjuiiidhuri, Asit Baran 
['haiidhuri, B. 

(jhaudhuri, A. R. 

(’haudhuri, Abani Kanto, MSC, 
BL( Patna) 

rhaudhuri, Bhudov, MA 
(’liaiidhuri, Bibhuti Bhusan, MA 
pjiaudhuri, Bijoy Kumar 
("luiudhuri, Birondra 
(Iiaiulhury, Biswanath Hazra 

Oiandhuri, Debaprasad, MA 
(’haudhuri, Girindra Kumar, 
BCOM 

CluuidJmri, Hirendra 

rhaudhuri, Kmmid, MA 

('haudhuri, K. K . 

I’lxmdliiiri, Labanya Kumar, 

lkk, n*r, AE. 

ChouJhiiry, Manas Kumar, ma . . 
rliaiiilliury, Mannrnn jan , MA 
Oh.iudhuri, Monindra Lai, msc . . 
CluHidhiiri, Nanigopal, BEE 


Prof, City College 

Asstt Price Waterhouse Peat & Co. 

Road Plant Office, Jessop & Co 
Asstt, Kilbum & Co Ltd 
Asstt Indian Explosive Ltd 
Cons, Atty, Tata Iron & Stool Co Ltd 

Asstt Prof, Presidency Co I lege 
Prof. City College 
Asstt, Balmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Works Purchase Office, Jessop & Co. 

Asstt Engineering Foreman, Imperial Tobacco Co 
of India, Ltd 

Prof, City College (Evening) 

Asstt, Bank of Baroda Ltd 

Dy Asstt, to the Seey, Associated Electrical Indus- 
tries (Ind) T To Ltd 
Prof, Bangahasi College 

Asstt A cel ts Officer, E Rly 

CoinmJ Engr, Associated Electrical Industries 
(T ndia), Ltd. 

Professor. Bangahasi College 
Prof, Vidynsagar College 
Engr, Englisli £ lei ‘trie Co, Ltd 

Elec ins, Directorate of Electricity, West Bengal . . 


(Hioiidhury, Nripendru Kishore, 
msc • 

(’haudhuri, Prana h Kumar 
(’haudhuri, Prasanta Kumar 
(iuimlluiri, R. G. 


Professor, Bangahasi College 

Asstt, Burn & Co 
Hi Aceft, Airways (I) Ltd 
Partner, S R Batliboi & Co Ltd 


(’haudhuri, R. N., ma 
Cimudhuri, R, BSe, bee 
(’fioudluiry. R. K . D. 

(’haudhuri, Sadhana Kanta 
(’ii.uidhun, Kailendra Nath, use 
(Pal) use (Eng’g) Lojul & aim ik 
(bid) amie (Mecb.) 

Pfioudhuri, Halil Kumar, MSC 
(iiMuhduri, Sumir Kanta, BCom 
(Cal) 

(’haudhuri, Sourindranath , i*sc 
(1 Lons), Dip use 
(’haudhuri, Sudhir Kumar 
Pittmdljiiry, Ta]>as Kumar, msc 
\ ton, Marik John 
f ii.urinan, K. J., BA, BCOM 
(’hml-auioni, p. 


Hick ey, p. K., BCOM, ECA 

Cfx ipra, Motilal 
f liojjra, S. K., ma, BOorn 
s (’hum, A. L. 

Cirvunse V. R. (Dr) MA, mi), 
mi‘a (Horvard) 

C| arke, L. R. 

(iarko. O. A. 

* jark, Robert Wilson 


l^eith Robertson 
Gilford, C. B. 

L*H,. U K ran j i Ainsile 
E. E. 

( J M »lw 1 J. E. 

M. C. Mossyey 
^nsf«i)| <s j () j lri Lyburn 
C. D. Michael 
}> vv > Michael Charles 
Wm. Raymond 
P ni1 * » Arthur William 
^ <| urton ay> i>. W. 

B. M. 

Robert John 

tu Unss. ^.u 


Officer, Karam Chanel Thapar & Boss I He. Ltd. - . 

Engineer, English Electric Company, Ltd 

Asstt, MacnoiJl & Barry Ltd 

Per Officer Liplon Ltd 

Inspector of Factories, West. Bengal 


Prof, City College (Evening) 

Asstt Tata Iron & Steel Co Ltd 

Engineer, Associated Electrical Industries (India) 
Private Ltd 

Engr B B & J Construction Co Ltd 
Prof, Vidyasugar College 
Asst, Williamson Magor & Co, Ltd 
Controller of Imports & Exports 

Office Asstt (Supplies), Imperial Tobacco Co of 
India Ltd 

Partner, Price Waterhouse Peat *Sr Co 

Asstt, Iloare Miller & Co Ltd 

Officer, Karam Ohand Thappar & Bros Pie Ltd 

Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 

l)y Dir Olfg, R B of India 

Asstt, Genl Dept Bird & Hedgers 

Asstt, Bird and Hedgers 

Chief Engr, Jessop & Co Ltd 

Manager, Macmillan & Co 

Mains Jointer, C E S C Ltd 

Director, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 

Asstt, I C 1 (India) Pie Ltd 

Dist Reservations Manager, Air India International 
Asstt Aectt, Mercantile Bank Ltd 
Sr Asstt , Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 
Asst Accounting, imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Asstt, Balmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Dev Engr, Union Carbide India Ltd 
Asst , iShaw Wallace & Co, Ltd 
Circulation Manager, Statesman Ltd 
Officer, National <& Grandlays Bank 
Director, A. M. Mair & Co. Pte. Ltd. 

Structural Drawing office, Jessop & Co Ltd * • 


102/1 Amherst- Street 
B 14 Gillander House 
6.2 Notaji Suhhas Road 
2 Farlie Place 
114, Chowringhee 
2.2B Notaji Subhfts Road 

N6/I College Street 
102/1, Amherst Street 
21 Netaji Subhas Road 
0.2 Netaji Suhhas Road 
.‘57, Chowringhee 

102/1 Amherst Street. 
India Exchange 

12 Rajondra Nath 
M ukherje Road 
2:7/ 1 Scot t Lane 

E I My House 

0, Mission Row 

1 0 K< ott Lane 
JO Shankar Ghosc Lane 
1 >-3 Gillander House 

1 llarish Mukherjeo 
1 1 < »;*.< 1 

10 Scott Lam* 

1 2 Mission Row 
.21 Cliittaranjan Avenue 
I-B Old Post Office St 
2 f>, Brabourno Road 
I >-.2 Gillander House 

2 Eairlie Place? 

0 Weston Street 

1 , 1 lasting;, Street. 


102/1 Amherst Street 
2.2B Netaji Subhas lid 

0 Mission Row 

PI3 Mission Row Ext-n 
.20 Satikar Ghoso Lane 
■I , Mange >e Lane 

1 Esplanade Ea.st, 

27 ( ’howringhee 

B 1 ( «i llaiuler House 
f> Eairlie Place 
2f> Brabourne Road 
4 ( Hive Row' 

<S Council House Street 

Chartered Bank Bldgs. 

I >itto. 

0.2 Netaji Suhhas Road 
L»0 ! liow bazar Stivel 
Victoria House 
.27 ( -how ringheo 
,24 Chowringhee 

4 Ddlliousie S< glare (East) 

5 Netap Suhhas Road 
4 Kairlie Place 

.27 ( 'how nngheo 
21 Netaji Subhas Rd 
I Brabourne Road 
4, BanlvshalJ HI i eel 
4 Chowringhee Sijuare 
41 Chowringhee 
14 India Exchange Place 
63 Netaji Subhas Read 



Namea. 


Style or calling, 


D 


ttaridenOe at piaon ( 
business. 


Dagft, Basanta Kumar 

Daga, Mohan Lal f BCOM, ACA . . 

David, Lionel Joseph 

D ’Costa, L. M. 

D. Cadwallader 
Dan, Kamalkinkar 
Daniel, E. 

Davis, D. G. 

Daniel, Sydney Wilfred, bsc 
(Hons). 

Darrel, C. L. G. 

Daru, Sushi] Kumar 
Das, Ajit Kumar, ma 
D as, Amamath, BEE, AMIE 

Das, B. 

Das, Basanta Lai, ba 

Das, Bimal Kumar, msc 
D as, B. I\ 

Das, Bishnupada, bmk amik 
D as, Debajyoti, mso 
D as, H. 

Das, Himanshu 

Das Gupta, Indu Bhusan, BCOM 
Das, Jagudish, MA 
Das, J. P. 

Das, J. L. 

Das, K. K. 

Das, Kama! Loehan, BA 
Das, Kaliprosad, BA 

Das, Kshudiram, ma 
D as, Kumud Sankar, msc 
D as, L. 11., bso 
D as, Madhusudan, ma 
D as, Milan Kr. 

Das, Monmohan, bsc 
D as, Mukul Ch, msc 
D as Gupta, Bhanu, BA 
Das Gupta, Nani Gopal, msc 
D as, Niladri Chandra, bsc 
D as, Prana b Kumar 
Das, Promotho Nath, bsc. Boom 
Das, R. N. 

Das, Rabindranath, ma 
D as, Rabindra Nath. MA 
Das, Ramendra Kumar, msc 
Das, 8. 

Das, S. K. 

Das, S. R. 

Das, Samir Kumar, BSC, BCOM 
ACA 

Das, Satgur, ba, CAiB(Lond) 

Das, Satyendra Kumar, ma, phn 
Das, Satyendra Prosanna 

Das, Subir Chandra 
Das Sunilangshu, bcom 

Das, Suraj Lai 
Das, Suryya Kanto, msc 
Das, Thakur, mcom, llb 
Das, S. C. 

Das, Uma Sankar 

Das, Upendra Mohon, boom 

Das Gupta, A., MSC 
Das Gupta, Anil 
Das Gupta, Angsupati, ma 
Das Gupta, Asit Kumar 


Asstt, A W Figgis A Co Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 
Asstt, Labour Dept Bird & Co Pto Ltd 

Office Asstt (Supplies), Imperial Tobacoo Co of India 
Ltd 

Asstt, Turner, Mossiron & Co Ltd 
Traffic Asstt, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Asstt, Bum & Co 
Asstt, J Thomas & Co Pte Ltd 
Asstt to Secy., Associate Electrical Industries 
(India), Ltd. 

Sales Dept, Tndo Burmah Petroleum Co Ltd 
Personnel Mangr, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Professor City College (Com Dept) 

Asstt Elec Engr & Maintenance, Supdt, Home (Pub) 
Dept 

Administrative, Guest Keen William Ltd 
Director Calcutta Industrial Chemicals & Minerals 
Co Pte Ltd 


D-6 Gillander I{ ()Us 
B-4 Gillander H nUs 
Chartered 
Buildings 
37 Chowringhee 

6 Lyons Range 
37 Chowringhee 
12 Mission Row 
8 Mission Row 
6, Mission Row 

Gillandors House 
37 Chowringhee 
13, Mirzaporo Stn*t 
Writers’ Buildings 

41 Chowringhee* 

43 Dharamtalla Sire 


Prof, Bangabasi College? 

Asstt Turner, Morrison A Co Ltd 
Insp of Factories, West Bengal 
Lecturer, Presidency College 
Asstt, Indian Iron & St el Co Ltd 
Asst t, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Staff Officer, The Chartered Bank 
Leet, Goenka College of Corn & Business Adman . . 
Asstt, Oil Deptt, Bird A Co Ltd 

Asstt, 1 C I (India) Pte Ltd 
PRO, E Rly 

Asstt, The Patterson Engineering Co (India) Pte Ltd 
Sales Exucutive, Orient Longman's Ltd 

Asstt Prof, Moulana Azad College 
Professor, Surendra Nath College 
Aeet, Martin Burn 

Lecturer, Goonka College of Commerce 

Asstt, Mains Engr, C E S C Ltd 

Sec Officer, Tata Iron A Steel Co Ltd 

Lecturer, Presidency College 

Staff Asst t, The Chartered Bank 

Prof, St Xavier’s College 

Sales Chemist, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 

Structural Estimating Office, Jesosp & Co Ltd 

Asstt, Martin Bum, Ltd 

Asstt, I C I (India) Pte Ltd 

Professor, Vidyasagar College 

Asstt Prof, Moulana Azad College 

Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Asstt, I C I (India) Pte Ltd 

Asstt, I C I (India) Pte Ltd 

Asstt Acctt Officer (Constn), E Rly 

Asstt, Martin Burn Ltd 


19 Scott Lane 
6 Lyons Range 
1 Hastings Street 
86/1 College Street 
12 Mission Rm\ 

12 Mission R<>\a 
4 Netaji Suhhas !i<« 
210 Bow hi tzar Stilt 
Chartered [\ 

Buildings 
34 Chowringhee 
Esplanade* Mansion 
21 Theatre' Rowd 
17 (’hit tun 

Avenue 

8, Wellesley Street 
24, Harrison Road 
12, Mission Rov 
210, Bowbazar Stree 
Victoria House 
23B Netaji Sublms] 
86/1 Coffege Street 
4 Netaji Suhluis lluu 
30 Park Stieet 
6 Church Lane 
63 Netaji Suhlias Ik 
12, Mission Row 
34 Chowringhee 
39, Shankar Glioso L 
8 WellesL-y Street 
Ditto . 

34 Chowringhee 
34 Chowringhee 
38 Chowringhee lid 
12 Mission How 


Asstt, Davenport & Co, Ltd 
Lecturer, Calcutta University 
Chief Engineer, Civil, The Braithwaite Burn & 
Jessop Constn Co, Ltd. 

Asstt, James Finlay & Co Ltd 
Ditto 

Mg Dir, Stewarts & Lloyds of India Pte Ltd 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Officer, Karamohand Thapper & Bros Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Stores Purchase Deptt, Bird A Co Pto Ltd 

Asst, Martin Bum 

Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 


6, Church Lane 
Senate House 
P-13, Mission R° w * 
tension 

2 Netaji Subh«* 

1 Hastings Stieet (W 


floor) 

41 Chowringhee 
39 Shankar Gho«e h 
25, Brabourne W** 
Chartered 


Buildings 
12, Mission Bo w g 
8, Council Hou?e » 


Prof, St Xavier’s College 
Civil Engr, Mckintosh Bum, Ltd 
Prof, Surendra Nath College 
Asstt, Mather A Platt Ltd 


treet 

Snbliasf 



IS 


ttanteft* 


Style or calling* 


Residence or place of* 
business. 


p as Gupta, Binode Kumar, . . Asstt, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 

MA(Com), IXB, ASAA, AOA 

Pas Gupta, Bepin Behari . . Engr, John Thomson (T) Pto Ltd 

j ):lS Gupta, Bhagabat, MSO . . lecturer, Presidency Collogo 

j )as Nalini Bhusan, BA . . Supdt C •/(.-, The Central Bank of India 

])iis Gupta, Chidananda . . Manager, Advertising Deptf , Imperial Tobacco Ce> 

of India Ltd 

Pas Gupta. Chitrajit, beb . . Mains Engr, CESC Ltd 

pasgupta, D. . . Personnel Officer, E Rly 

]), IS Gupta, Deb Kumar, boom Asstt, Bird & Co (Pto) Ltd 

A ( ’A 

Pasgupta, Jotirindra, ma . . Prof, St Xavier’s College 

pas Gupta, Kalyan Kumar . . Lecturer, Sanskrit College 

pasgupta, Kanak Ranjan bso Asst Sub-Station Engineer, C E S C Ltd 

(Cal)BSO (Tech) 

pa* Gupta, Kumar Kanti, . . Asstt, Engr., Dept. Bird & Co. Pto Ltd. 

pas Gupta, Niranjan, bee . . Elec Insp, Directc of Electricity 

Pas Gupta, M. C. MCOM . . Prof, Surcndra Nath College 

pas Gupta, Nirmalendu, BEE . . Elec Ins, Directorate of Electricity, West Bengal . . 

Pas Gupta, Nirmalendu, ma,aoa Asstt Prof, Gocnka College 
pas Gupta, Nirmal Kanta, BA . . Asstt Aeett, C E S C Ltd 
p a; , Gupta, Nisikanta, msc . „ Professor. Bangalmsi Collogo 
pas Gupta, Pabitra Kumar, BCOM Asstt, Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Das Gupta, Phani Bhusan, BCOM, Asstt, Price Waterbouse TVat & Co 
At 1 A 

Pas Gupta, Promatlia Nath . . Insp of A/Cs, II O, Port Commissioner 
|>as Gupta, Pravir Kumar, ma . . Staff Officer, Chartered Bank 
Das Gupta, Promtosh . . Assistant, Shaw Wallatio & Co, Ltd 

Pas Gupta, Protip Kumar . . Asstt, Maeneill & Barry, Ltd 
Pasgupta, R. C. . . Dist Engr, (f> Cell), E Rly 

Pas Boy, Bijoli Bhusan BCOM . . Supdt, The Central Bank of India 
CA, 11B 

Pasgupta, Rajendrakumar, msc Prof, Bangabasi College 
Pas ( Ju])t a, S. . . Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 

Pas Gupta, Kailondra Nath, MA Asstt Dr of Publicity, Home (Pub) Dept 
Das Gupta. Santi Kumar, M A .. Loot, City College 

Pas Gupta, Satya Ranjan, boom, Supdt (Offtg), R B of India 
caub. 

bey, Devdatta, MA . . Prof, Surendra Nath College 


Das Gupta, Sib Prasad, BA (Hons) 
Das Gupta, Subrangsu K., bcom 
Das Gupta, Sudhansliu Bhusan, 
ma, boom 

bus Gupta, Surendra Kumar 

Das Gupta, Sujit Kumar, msc 
D.is Nharina, A. K. 

Da* Nliarma, Tl. 

Pavar, M. S. 


Asstt, Dunlop Rubber Co (India) Pte Ltd 
Supdt, R B of India 

Asstt Mngr, Scindia Steam Navigation Co Ltd 

Acctg. Su])dt, The Imperial Tobacco Company of 
India, Ltd. 

Asstt Prof, Presidency College 
Jr Asstt, Glasdtone Lyall & Co Ltd 
Asst t Personnel Officer, E Rly 
Partner, S R Batliboi & Co 


Davrigp »*, Alfred John 
Ilavin, G. C. 

Davies, A. W. It. 

Davies, Bryan Campbell 

Davidson, W. R. 

Dawes, J.S. 

Daya 1, p. 

D (l , Ananda 

Ajit Kumar, oaiib 
AloUe 

D( y, Asim Kumar, BA, BCOM 
A(2A 

^T. AtuJ Chandra, msc 
be, A. 

b * V ’ ^has Ranjan, msc 
e y. Bishuupada, msc. 

Dunbar 
Dulu Bhusan 



Asstt, Williamson & Magor & Co Ltd 

Much Engr, E Rly 

Sub-Acctt, The Chartered Bank 

Covenanted Officer, National & Grindlays Bank 
Ltd, Lloyds Branch 
Sub Aeett., R B of India 
Mercantile Asstt, Mackinon Mackenzie & Co 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Asstt, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Sub-Acctt, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Maenill & Barry Ltd 
Chief Aeett, T E Thomson & Co Ltd 

Prof, City College (Com) 

Sub Editor, Statesman Ltd 

Lecturer, Presidency College 

Supdt, Bills Inward, Central Bank of India 

Asstt, 1 C I (India) Pte Ltd 

Sales Engr, Asociated Electrical Industries (Ind) 
Pte Ltd 

Prof, City College (Com Dept) 

Asstt, The Alkali & Chemical Corpn of India Ltd . . 
Asstt Engr, B. B. & J Construction Co Ltd 
Lecturer, Calcutta University 


B4, Gillandor House 

4, Fairlie Place 
8b/ 1, College' Street 
33 Netaji Subhas Road 
37 Cliorw inghee 

Victoria House 
E Rly House 
Chartered Bank Bldgs 

JO, Park Street 
Sanskrit College 
9b Pr incop Street 

Chartered Bank 

Buildings 

1 Harish Mukherjee ltd 
24/2 Mahatma Gandhi 
Road 

1 Harish Mukherjee 
Road 

210, Bowbazar Street 
Victoria House 
1 9 Sc ott Lane 

14 India Exchange Place 
B-4 Gillandcr House 

15 Strand Road 

4 Netaji Subhas Road 
4, Bank shall Street 
2, Fairlie Placs 
E Rly House 
33 Netaji Subhas Road 

19, Scott Lane 

12 Mission Row 
Writeis' Buildings 
102/1 Amherst Street. 

8, Council House' Street 

24/2 Mahatma Gandhi 
Road 

57-B Free School Street 
Ditto. 

33 Netaji Subhas Road 

37, Chowringheo 

80-1 College Street 
4 Fairlie* Place 
E Rly House 
IB, Old Post Dili co 

Street 

4 Mange >e Lane 

38, Chowringheo Road 
4 Netaji Subhas Road 
29 Netaji Subhas Road 

8 Council House Street 

1 b Strand Road 
4 Clive Row 

37 Cliowriiighre 
8, Council House; Street 

2 Fairlie* Place 

9 A Esplanade East 

13 Mirzapur Stree t 

4 Chowringheo Square 
86/1 College Street 
33, Ne*taji Subhas Road 

34 Chowringhe'C 

13 Rajendra Nath Mukh- 
e*rjee Roael 
13 Mirzapur Street 
34 Ch o wringh ee 
P-13 Missiem Row Exin 
Senato House 



No. 


Named. 


Style or calling. 


Hettidenoe or pj aoe 
business. 


Dey, M. G. 

Do, Nabadwip (3 ? nclra 
Do, Nagendra Nath, MA 
I)o # Nirmalendu, bso (Eng) 

Dey, N. N. 

Dey, P. 1*. 

Do', P. K. 

Do, Prakash (dial alia, MA 

Do, Ttaghunat h 
Do, Uam Hari, MA 
Do, K. P. 

Do, Sukumar, use 

Dey, S. N. 

Deaws, Alan Cliarlos 
Doh. A. 

Dub, Asit Kr, mso 
Deb, Asliit. Kumar 

Dol), Shandil\n, K. MSI 1 
Dolmalh, Alul Ch, MSC 
Debnath, Aha\ ini Kumar, msc 
D eb Roy, Gopalendu, msc 
D eei holts, liOOll 
Domol rius, H . 

Demetrius, St John 

De Sa, liailon (Dr), i»so 
Desikan, J\, BA 

Dereek, damns D 'Rath 

Dosai, D K 
Dosai, N. K. 

Dosai, V. D., DCOM 
Dus 1 1 Pandr. K. M. 

Desikan S. V., ma caiiii 
D evlin, 10 

Dewar, fan George Stephen 

Dewanji, R. B. 

Do, Wilson G. B. 


Asstt, Indian Iron & Stool Co Ltd 
Aectg Suj>dt, The Imperial Tobacco Co. of India, Ltd 
Prof, Bangabasi College 

Asstt Engineer in-charge, Comm., Associated Elcctl. 

Industries (India), Ltd. 

Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel C > Ltd 
Asstt, Marneill & Barry Ltd 
Dist Signal <fe Tele-coin -Engr, E Illy 
Insurance Official, Commercial Union Assurance Co 
Ltd. 

Asstt, Iloarc Miller & Co Ltd 

Olx Asst t,, Bank of China 

Asstt Ex Engr, Port Commissioners’ Offiee 

Partner, Talbot & Co 

Asstt, 1 C 1 (India) Pto Ltd 
Asst, d aid ii o Henderson Ltd 
Asstt, d anlino Henderson Ltd 
Lecturer, St. Paul’s College 

Asstt Engr. Associated Electrical Industries (Ind) 
Pto Ltd 

Staff Officer, State Bank of India 
Loot , Presidency College 
Pro I, Bangabasi College 
Prof, St. Xavier’s College 
Sr Asstt, Gladsone Lyall & Co Ltd 
Asstt, dardinc Henderson Ltd 
(’bartered Aectt, George Read & Co 


Prof, St Xavier’s College 

Officer, National & Grnadlays Bank Ltd, Lloyds 
Brandi 

Asstt,, OctavioiiH Steel & (Jo Ltd 

Asstt, Jardino Henderson, Ltd 
Asstt-, Kilburn & (Jo Ptt^ Ltd 
Asstt, Bank of Baroda Ltd 
Asstt. I (' J (India) Pto Ltd 
Supdi, e e, Central Bank of India 
Asst, Macneii <S i Barry 

Engineer. Associated British Machine Tool Makers 
(India) Ltd 

Asstt Acels Officer, A (J Bengal 

Asstt, Staff Manager, Imperial Tobacco (Jo of India 
Ltd 


12 Mission Row 

37, Chowringhoo 
25/1 Scott Banc 
6, Mission Row 

12 Mission Row 

2 Fail lie Place 

38, Cho wringing i» 0 
32, Dalhousie Squm 

5 Fairlic Place 
15 Brabourne llo il( j 
15, Strand Road 
Tower House, (J|, 0AV 
ringhee Square 
34, Chowringhce 
4, Clive Row 
4 Clive Row 
33/1, Amherst St m .j 

13 Rajcudiii ; 
Mukherjcc U<>a<] 

3 Strand Bond 
HO/ 1 College Sheet 
Iff, Scott Banc 
30, Park Street 

4 Fairlic Place 
4 Clive Row 
Avenue Hi him ( ’how 

ringhee Square 
30 Park SI reel 
2ff Netaji Sublias lln, 

14 Old (Joint, ll-ii 
Street 

4, (Jive Row 

2 Fairlic Place 
India Exchange, Cafe 

3 1 Chow i mghre 

33 Netaji Sublias 11 
2, Fairlic Place 
0 Old J , ost Olker St 

Treasury BiuMiiit's 
37 ( ’howi i iighcc 


1)’ Rnzario, G. 

1) ’Souza, A. 

D’Souza, Anthony, ma, bt, 
fro s (Loud.) 

I) Souza, l. A. N. 

D Souza, G. M. 


De’Souza, Joseph, use, lions 
D’Souza, r l\ E., A( J 1 1 
Dhar, Mukul (Jh., MA 
Dhar, K. P., MS(’ 

Dhar, Parimal Kanti, BSC 
Dhar, Saehindra Nath, MSC 
Radhika, Prasad, MS(J 
Dh a wan, An and Kumar 
Dhawan, Jagadish 
Dliawan, K., bcom, aca 
D liar, Nirmal Chandra, BSC 
Dhir, A. S. 

Dickinson, Stanley 

Didierserre, Terrence B. 

Doig, D. A. 

J)ol])hiii, A. C. Ifemilla 
Deogar, Ashoke Kumar 
Doshi, S. R., bsc, ms 
D oslii, P. A. 

Doss, J. Rana 

Dolivala, P. K., blb (Bombay) 
Dors, F. 0», ba 


Asstt, Place, Siddons & Gough (Pte) Ltd 
Asstt Meeh Engr, E lily 
Prof, St. Xaviers College 


. . f» T A'ons Kaniie 

. . 3S, Chowringlicr 

. . 30, Partk Si reel 


Aectt, National & Grandlays Bank Ltd 
Asstt Water & Chemical, Bird *Kr (Jo Pte Ltd 

Asstt, Bengal Chamber of Commerce 
Asstt, Northern Assurance Co Ltd 
Jr Ex Officer, Bengal National Chamber of Commerce 
Prof, St Xaviers’ College 

Sales Asstt , Metal, Martin Burn Ltd 

Lect , Moiilaua Azad College 

Prof, Bangabasi College 

Aeett, .James Warren & Co Ltd 

Br Manager, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 

Asstts Aectt Dept , Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 

Asstt, Audit Office, Eastern Railway 

Mech, Eng, E Rly 

Asstt, Industrial Deptt, Bird & Heilgers 

Asstt, Labour Deptt, Bird & Hcilgors 
Asstt Editor, Statesman Ltd 
Asst. Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
General Works, Jessop & Co Ltd 
Mangr Retail, Standard Vaccuum Oil Co 
Asst, ICI (India) Pte Ltd 
Asst, Macneill & Barry 
Sec Officer, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 
Banking Officer, R B of India 


0 Church Banc 
C’harlcred 
Building 

G, Netaji »Suhhas K 
7 Tlare Street 
P-11 Mission ^ 
30 Park Stn el 


Lission How 
loslev Street 
colt 

iow ringhee 

[)W'finL r l»ee 

mwringhee 
and Koecl 
House 

rt-il Hank ® 

ri'd Bank*"* 
HTinirlii'i' 

ikshall St ret-t 
tuji Stil>l‘ ,is 
irrji I^ nc ' 

rlie Place 



Names* 


Ranch, K. J. • * 

1 >JM kc*, J. Alexander 
])rewith, D. F. 

X)ua, Krishna Lai 
Dube. B. K. 

Dudley, D. C. 

Dmiwadkar, D. N. 

Duncan, John Mcnicoll 
Duiiliill, B. D. C. 

Duckworth, Bt. Sir R. Dyee 
Duckworth, Horace Edward, be 
Dullard. Norman Gay 
Dutt, A. K. 

Dustoor. P. T. 

Dutta, A. K. 

Dutt, Ainiya Kumar, msc 
J) utt, A soke, be (Cal) 

Dutta, Ashim K., ma 
Dutt, Be joy Kumar , ami Mec.E, 
amie (ind), amiia (Lond). 
putt a, Bhuban Mohan, MA 
Dut t, Benode Behari, msc 
Dutt, Bhabotosh, ma, PHD (Dr.) . . 
Dutt, Bidyut, msc 
Dutta, Birinehi Kumar, msc 
Dutta, Birinehi Kumar. MSC 
Dutt, Bhabatosh. MA 
Dutt, B. K. 

Dutt, Chandi Ch. 

Dutt, Dhimidra Chandra 

Dutt, Dhirendra Nath 

Dutta, Chittatosh, msc 

Dutt, Dhruba Kumar 

Dutta, Dighbijoy, msc, dphil 

Dutta, Dulal Chandra 

Dutt, Girija 

Dutt, Hriday Kr, msc 

Dutt, Tndu Bhusan, bcom, aca . . 

Dutt, Jatindra N, m. com 

Dutt Jiban Chandra 

i > 11 1 la, .T. 

Dutt. Jyotish Chandra 
Dutta. Kali Kumar, (Dr.) 

Dutt, Kanailal 

Dutt, Kaiiailal, ma (Com) 

Dutt, Karuna Kanta, ba 
Dutt , Keshav Ch. 

Dutta, M a ha.de v* MSC 
Dutta. Mob it Kumar, BSC 

Dutt . Mrinul Kant i 
1 hit t . Man j u Bhusan, MA, BL . . 
Dutt, Nagendra Chandra 
Dutta. Narendra Mohan, MSC 
Dutta Nimai Charan, msc 
l>ott Ninnal Ch, BA 


Dutta. Nirmal Chandra, ma 
Dutt, p C 

Dutt, Nripendra Nath, ma 
Dutt, 1>. K. 

Dutt, Prafulla Kumar, Mse 
putt., British Chandra, msc 
putta, Punya Brata 
Dutt, R, ma 

Dutta, Rabindra Nath, msc 


Dutta, iWlhoyshyam, MA 
! utt , Ranajit Kumar, ba 
utt.. Rash behari 

Rathindra Nath, MA, B' 
Dutt , S B, BSc 

* Jutt Sachindra Nath, ma, 

^ fca, PSAA. 

S K 

Samarjit 

n., Namir Ranjan, ma 
tta > Sambhu Nath, msc 


17 

Style or o&lling. 


Asstt Turner, Morrison & Co Ltd 
Asstt Acctt, Mercantile Bank Ltd 
Asst, 1CI (India) Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Mineral Doptt, Bird & Heilgers 
Asstt J Thomas & Co Pte Ltd 

Maintenance Dept, Indo Burmah Petroleum Co Ltd 
Architect , Mackintosh Burn & Ltd 
Asstt, Jute Mills Deptt, Bird & Heilgers 
Mng Director, J ardine Henderson Ltd 
Br Manager, James Warren & Co Ltd 
Asst, Williamson Magor & Co Ltd 
Asstt, James Final y & Co Ltd 
Administrative, Guest Keen & Williams Ltd 
Asstt Acctt, Statesman Ltd 
Asstt , Kilburn & Co Pte Ltd 
Lecturer, Presidency College 
Contr Engr, C E S C 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Inspector of Factories 

Lec.t. City (College 
lecturer, City College 
Professor, Presidency College 
Prot, Surendra N College 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Prof, City College (Evening) 

Asstt Prof, Presidency College 
Asstt, I C 1 (India) Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Bird & Heilgers 
Asstt, James Warren & Co Ltd 
Indian Asst t , Mercantile Bank Ltd 
Asst. Prof, Presidency College 

Asstt personnel. Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Prof, Vidyasagar College, 

Engr, Babcock & Wilco of (lnd) Ltd 
Acctt, Lipton Ltd 
Prof, Surendra Nath College 
Asstt Acctt, Brooke Bond. India, Ltd 
Prof, City College, Com Dept 
Civil Engr, Mackintosh Burn Ltd 
Sub-Editor, Statesman Ltd 
Asstt, Burn & Co Lid 
Asst Prof, Sanskrit. College 
Asstt Mains Engr, CES C, Ltd 
Prof, City College (Com) 

Asstt, Place Siddons & Gough 

Sale Room Asstt, Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 

Professor, Bangabasi College 

Engr, Babcock & Wilcoce ol (lnd) Ltd 

Administrative, Guest Keen & Williams Ltd 

Supdt., State Bank of India 

Sr Office Asstt, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Lt3d 
prof. City College (Evening) 

Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Jr. Officer, Life Insurance Corporation of India, 
Hindusthan Co-operative Insurance Society 
Lee, St. Paul’s College 
Asstt, I Cl (India) Pte Ltd 
Asst t Acctt, Central Bank of India Ltd 
Dist Contr of Stores (Cons), E.Rly 

Assti Professor, Presidency College 
Professor, St Xavier’s College 
Asstt, James Warren & Co Ltd 
Professor, St Paul’s College 
Asstt, Bird & Co (Pte) Ltd 

Prof, City College (Evening) 

Jr Actt, Associated Electl. Industries (India) Ltd 
Supvr, Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Asstt, Dunlop Rubber Co (India) Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Secretarial Dept, India Aluminium Co Ltd . . 
Asstt, India General Navigation $ Railway Co Ltd 

Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Inspector of Acctts, Port Commissioners 
Asstt, Scottish Union & National Insurance Co 
Prof, St. Xaviour’s College 


Residence or plaoe of 
business. 

6 Lyons Range 
8 Nctaji Subhas Road 
34, Chowrinliee 
Chartered Bank Buildings 
8 Mission How 
GilLander Hous 
8 Nctaji Subhas Road 
Chartered Bank Buildings 
4, Clive Row' 

31 Chowringhee Road 
4, Mangoe Lane 
2 Nctaji Subhas Road 
41 Chow ringhee Road 
4 Chowringhee Square 
2, Fairlie Place 
86-1, College Street 
Victoria House 
39, Shankar Ghose Lane 
1 , Hastings St reet 

102/1 A nih rest Street 
102-1, Amherst. Street 
86/1, College Street 
24, Harrison Road 
39, Shankar Chose Lane 
102/J Amhrosl Street 
86/1 College Street 
34, Chowringhee 
Cliartere Bank Buildings 
31 Chowringhee* Road 
8 Netaji Subhas Road 
86-1 , College Street 
37, Chowringhee 
39, Shankar Ghose Lane 

1 & 3 Bra bourne Road 
9, Weston Street 

24, Harrison Rood 
Brooke House 
13. Mirzapore Street 
8 Nctaji Subhas Road 
4 ChowTinghee Square 

12, Mission Row 
Sanskrit. College 
Victoria House 

13, Mirzupur Street 

6, Lyons Range 

2 Metcalfe St 
19, Scott Lane 

1 & 3 Brabourne Road 
41 Chowringhee Hoad 

3 Strand Rd 

7, Chowringhee 

1 02 /l A m 1 1 rest. S t rret 
39, Shankar Ghose Lane 

4 Chittaranjan Avenue 

33-1, Amherst Street 
34 Chowringhee 
33, Netaji Subhas Road 
E Rly House 
86-1, College Street 
30, Park Street 
31 Chowringhee Road 
33-1, Amherst Street 
Chartered Bank Bui1» 
dings. 

102/1 Amherst St- 
6, Mission Row 
31 Dalliousie Square. 
f>7B Fern School Street 
31 Chowringhee Road 
4, Fairly Place. 

12 Mission Row 
15, Strand Road 
6, Lyans Range 
30, Park Street 



IS 


No. Names. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or 
business. * 


Dutta, Saktipada 
Dutt, Santi Hikaali 
Dutta, S P 

Dutt, Katya Ran j an, bsc, aoa 

Dutta, Satyendra Kumar 
Dutt, Satyendra Nath 
Dutt, Shyainapado, BCom, P & I 
oi'IIB. 

Dutt, Shyamal Kumar 
Dutta, Suhhas Chandra, MSC 
Das, Subhas Chandra, MSc 
Dutt, Subhemlu, msc 


Secy, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 
Manager, James Finlay & Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 

Accountant, Associated Electrical Industries 
(India), Ltd 

Sub Editor. Statesman Ltd 

Asstt, Burmah Shell O S D & Co of India, Ltd 

Supdt. (offg), R. B of India 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Professor, Bangabasi College 
Lect, Presidency College 
Lecturer, Calcutta Technical School 


Dutt, Siidhir Kumar 
Dutta, Kubodh. ma 
Dutt, Subhrojyoti, BCom, ACA . 
Dutt, Sudhamoy 

Dutt, Subodh Kumar 
Dutt, Sukumar, bsc 
Dutta, Sunil Kumar, ma 
Dutt Gupta, Ajit llanjan, ma 

Dutt Gupta, Nagesh Ch., msc 
Dutta Gupta, ltanjit Kumar, 
BCom 


Staff Asstt , State Bank of India 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Asstt, Price Water House Peal & Co 
Chief Valuer & Swererger, Port Commissioner of 
Calcutta. 

Supvr Hongkong k Shanghai Banking Corpn 
Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 
Staff Asstt, State Bank of India 
Deputy Secretary, Bengal National Chamber 
Commerce. 

Prof, Bangabasi College 
Asstt, Harrisons k Orosfield Ltd 


of 


Dutta Roy, B . . Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 

Dutt Roy, Birendra Sankar . . (vent Engr, G E C 

Dwyer, Gerald Bertram . . Asstt, James Finleys k Co Ltd 


4, Fairly Pku* 

2, Netaji Sub| lajj ] 
12 Mission L< nv 
6, Mission Low 

4 Chowringli (H . g 
Hong Kong \u m 
8 Council House Sti 

4, Bankshall 8tree 
19, Scott Lum, 

86/1 College StivH 
110, Sureudut ^ 
Bauer joe Koud* 
3 Starnd 3 toad 
39, Sankar Uhuso { 
B-4 Gillander House 
15 Strand Load 

31 Dalhousie Square 

5, Counci 1 lloiiMoStj 
3, Strand Load ' 

i 1 - 1 I , Mission ttovv 

tension. 

19, Scott Lain* 

0, Church Lam* 

12 Mission How. 

6, Cliittaranjaii Aveiij 
2 Netaji Sublias KoJ 


E 


Eaddy, C R . . Director, Bankline (I) Pto Ltd . . 6 Lyons Lange 

Eardley, R S, ACII . . Manager, Norwitch Union Fire Insurance Society 6* Lyons ILimfi*; 

Ltd 


Easdon, A J 

Easson, William Gordon 

A.C.W.A. 

Easson, J. W., ca 
E astwood, «J . A. 

Edic, Jhon Ramsay 
Edwards, J D 

Edwards, H D 
Edwin, VV. J. 

Edy Peter Edward 

Ekaubaram, S 

Elias, Moses Sassoon, ma 

Elloy, D. A 

Elsey, V T 

Esplen, James Leslie 

Evans, C. 

Evans, J W 

Evans, 1. W. 

Evers, K. E. 

Evrall, Roger 
Eyes, N. W. 


Jr. Asstt, Glad shine Lyall & Co Ltd . . 4 Fabler i'i.ur 

ca., Chief Acctt, Bird & Co, Ltd . . Chartered Bank V>\u 


, . Asstt, Gillanders Arbuthnot & Co Ltd 
Asst, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Asstt, Acctt, Mercantile Bank Ltd 

Acctt, National & Grindlays Bank Ltd, Lloyds 
Branch. 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
. . Administrative, Guest Keen Williams Ltd 
. . Civil Engr, Mackintosh Burn (Pte) Ltd 
. . Dy. Ch. Mech. Engr. E. Rly 

. . Principal, Elios Meyer Free School & Talmud Torah 
Journalist, Statesman 
. . Jr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 

Managing Director, Place Siddons & Gough (Pte) 
Ltd 

. . Chartered Secy, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
. . Asstt Production Manager, Imperial Tobacco Co 
of India Ltd 

P A to Erection Supdt, English Electric Co Ltd 
. . Mg Director, J Thomas & Co Pte Ltd 
. . Mg Director, Alfred Herbert (India) Pte Ltd 
. . Asstt, Norwich Union Fire Insurance Society Ltd ... 


Gillander Moiw 
4, Clive Urn* 

8 Netaji SuMw- s ft 
29 Netaji Subluw* J! 


4 BaiiksliaH St« v: 
41, Ohuwrm'-la*' 

8, Netaji .Siil.ii>*' 
E Rlv Helix* 

50, Bowbazar Street 

4, Chowniteft'r ‘ s, p 
4 Fairlce Blare 
6 Lyons I kings 


4, Clive Kew 
37 Choivrinj,'li«i' 



Names. 


19 

Style or calling. 


F 


Falconer, W C . . Acett, Mercantile Bank Ltd 

Fergie, Allan Macgregor Smith . . Partner, Lovelock and Lewis 
Ferguson, Ian Gilmour . . Architect, Mackintosh Burn 

Fernandez, Leo Menino, be Sales Engr, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
(Mech), M Tech 

Furrier, J • • Asstt, Macneill & Barry Ltd 

Ferris, Nissien . . Jr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 

Fielder C. J. • • Chief Technical & Executive Officer, Shalimar . 

Tar Products (193f>) Ltd 

Fitzgerald, Haughton Keane . . Sr Executive, Balmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Fitzgerald, George Dennis Mang Director, Avery & Co of India Pte Ltd 
Augustine 

Fondekar, V K . . Dist Elec Engr, E Rly 

Forage, Ronald Charles . . Asst. Supdt, Construction Dept, C ESC Ltd 


Forbes, R 

Forman, John Henderson 
Fordwood Donald, o.a,a.c.a. 
Forsyth, A. C. Williams 
Foster, William Kenneth 
Francis, .1 

Franks, Rodney Jack Ktonely 


Asstt, Macneill & Barry Ltd 
Asstt, Balmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Assistant, Jardine Henderson, Ltd 
Asstt. Carritt Moran & Co Private Ltd 
Genl Mangr, Sales, Imperial Tobacco Co of India 
Assistant, Turner Morrison & Co, Ltd 
Mg Director, A W Figgis & (k> Pte Ltd 


Fraser, G, J P 
Frederick Donald Collins 


Asstt Acett. National and Grind lays Bank Ltd 
(Lloyds Branch). 

Acett, Oetanius Stool Co Ltd 


Frederick, Ceorge Lawrence 
Fost Foster, M M 
Fmgtneit , C 1) 


Acctts Dept, Jessop & Co Ltd 

Office Asstt, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 

Asstt, Hau re Miller & Co Ltd 


G 


(iabriel, Austin Leon 

Fadre, Bhaskar Ramchandra, mho 

(linger, E. E. 


banapathi, S 
banguli, A K 

banai, Arnarendra Kr, MA 
banda, Sukdeb, MA 
Giiric Uii, Shir Chandor 
bauguli, Ajit Kumar, msc 
banguli, Anil Ranjan, MCom, ACA 
banguli, Amrita Lai, ma 
bang.di Bijoy Kmnar, msc, Phil 
baiignl i , Hirendra Chandra, msc 
b^nguly, Hemanta Kumar, ma 

banguli^ ip 

Gan Kulv, M K 
b^nguli, Nemai Chandra 
^ Parboty Charan, aca . . 


Asstt, South British Insurance Co, Ltd 
Suptd, State Bank of India 

Manager, Calcutta Office, Associated Electrical 
Industries (India) Private Ltd 
Asstt, .Jardine Handerson Ltd 
Asstt, Indian Iron and Steel Co Ltd 
Lect, Moulana Azad Collegia 
Sujxlt, Static Bank of India 
Acett, Balmer Lawrie <& Co Ltd 
P.of., City College 

Asstt Regr, Office of the Regr of Companies 
Professor, Vidyasagar College 
Prof, Bangabasi College 
Asstt Professor, Presidency College 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Asstt, Macneill & Barry Ltd 
Asstt Acctts Officer, A G Bengal 
Asstt Mains Engr, C E S C, Ltd 
Asstt, Acett Dept, Bird & Co (Pte) Ltd 


Residence or place of 
business. 


8 Netaji Subhas Road. 

4, Lyons Range 
8 Netaji Subhas Road 
6, Church Lane 

2 Fairlie Place 

4 Fairlie Place 
6, Lyons Range 

21, Netaji Subhas Road 
Avery House 

E Rly House. 

Victoria House, Chow- 
ringhee Square. 

2 Fairlie Place 
21, Netaji Subhas Road 
4, Clive Row 
9, Mission Row 
157, Chowringhee 
6, Lyons Range 
1)6, Gillanders House, 
Cal-1 

29 Netaji Subhas Road. 

14 Old Court House 
Street . 

62 Netaji Subhas Road 
27 Chowringhee 

5 Fairlie Place. 


10, Netaji Subhas Road 
2, Strand Road 
12, Rajendra Nath 
Mukherjee Road. 

4 Clive Row 

12 Mission Row 

5 Wellesley Street 
2 Strand Road 

21 Netaji Subhas Road 
102-1, Amherst Street 
27 Rrabourne Road 
29, Sankar Chose Lane 
2f>/l , Soot* Lane 
86 1, College Street 
29, Sankar Chose Lane 
2 Fairlie Place. 

Treasury Buildings. 
Victoria House 
Chartered Bank Buildings 



ivo. 


20 


Names. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or p 
business. 


Ganguly, P 
Ganguli, P N 
Ganguli, Pashupati, ma 
G anguly, Profulla Ch, bsc, be, 
amie 

Ganguli, U L 
Ganguli, SK 

Ganguly, S N, G G I Final pt I of 
ITB. 

Ganguli, Salil Kumar 

Ganguli, Subrnta, MA 

Ganguli, Sudhamoy, ma, bt 

Gantzor, HD 

Ganguli, Hudhainay, MA 

Ganguli, Sushi! Kumar, bsc, Boom. 

Ganguli, T. N., ma 

Gangwal, Kaporehand, Benin 

Gurewal, B S 
Gates, Reed G IT 
Gates. W G 


Administrative, Guest Keen Williams Ltd 
Asstt, Com Supdt, E Rly 
Prof, City College (Com) 

Inspecting officer, Electry Duty, Directe of Electricity 

Officer, National & Grindlays Bank Ltd, Lloyds 
Branch . 

Asstt, Mech. Engr, E Rly 
Sub Acctt, R B of India 

Lecturer, St Paul’s College 

Jr Ex-officer, Bengal National Chamber of Commerce 
Prof, City College (Com) 

Asst, James Finlays & Co Ltd 
Prof, City College (Evening) 

Partner, Lovelock & Lewis 
Prof, Surendra Nath College 

Manager, Asiatic Oxygon & Acetylene Co Ltd 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Asstt, Turner, Morrison & Co Ltd 
Engr, Lipton India Ltd 


41 Chowr inghee I 

3 Koilaghat St 
13, Mirzapur Str e 

1 Harish Mukherjj 

29 Netaji Sub}, as 

E Rly House. 

8 Council House S 

33/1, Amherst Stn 
Pll Mission Ko Av j 
13, Mirzapur Strec 

2 Netaji Nubias 
102/1 Amherst Sti 
4, Lyons Range 
24/2 Harrison R () 

8, Dalhousie Sq r 

4 Clive Row 

6 Lyons Range 

9 Weston Street 


Gain , P C, use, ma, lt.b 

Gay, I) W 

Gazder. N. D. 

Geilatly, K. M. 

Gemmell, Micliml John 
Georgia, PC Bsc (Eng.) 

George, P T 

Goorgc, T \ r , HA, ACA 

Ghatak, Anantamov, dkh (Loud) 

GLEE. 

Ghatak, Ca.pt Bhupendranat b 

Ghatak, Promotha Kumar 
Ghatak. Nakulesvvar 
Ghatak, Nirmal Chandra 


Purchase & Traffic Manager, Indian Aluminium Co 
Ltd 

Asstt Manager, Chartered Bank 
Asstt, l.C.I. (India) P & E Ltd. 

Asstt, Turner Morrison & Co, Pte Ltd , . 

Asstt, Balmer Lawrie & C*o Ltd 

Chief Engineer, Indian Aluminium Sl Co Ltd 


31, Chowringhee 
Calcutta- ]b 
4, Netaji SubhasR 

34, Chown uglier It 
6, Lyons Range* 

21 , Netaji ftubUs 1 
31, ChoWTingliee 
Calcutta- lb 


Asst, Macneill & Barry 
Acctt, Martin Burn Ltd 
Asstt Mains Engr, CESC Ltd 


2, Fairlie Place 
12 Mission Bow 
Victoria House 


Cal Marine Supdt, Noindia Steam Navigation Co 
Ltd. 

Sub Acctt, State Bank (Park St Br) 

Sr Asstt, Acctt. Port Commissioner of (Calcutta 
Jr Asstt., Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 


33, Netaji Siiblmsl 

Queens Mansion 
15, Strand Bond 
4, Fairlie IMsiee 


Ghosal, Amalendu, bmk, lUTech, 
amie (Did). 

Ghosal, Amitava 

Ghosal, Gautam 
Ghose, Debabrata, MA 
Ghosal, Hirendra Natli BA 
Ghosal, Kalidas, Msc 
Ghosal, Araiya Kumar MCom OA 

Ghosal, Kumaresh, bsc, lee 


Lecturer, Calcutta Technical School 

Asstt., Engr, B B & 3 Construction & Co Ltd 
Asst t , Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Staff Asstt, St ate Bank of India 
Asstt Audit Officer, Eastern Railway 
Pr ifusMor, Bangabasi College 

Jr Officer, Life Insurance Corporation of India, 
Unit, Sunlife of Canada. 

Comm. Engr, Associated Electrical Industries 


Ghosal, Madhusudan, msc 1 
Ghosal, N K 
Ghosal, R. N. 

Ghosal, Ramesh, Kr MA 
Ghosal, Samarendra Nath, msc, 
phd 

Ghosal, Sibendranath, MA, dpiiil 
Ghosal, Upendra Nath, bsc (Loud.) 

Ghose, A. K. 

Gliose, Aloke Kumar, dfh, 


Prof, Surendra Nath College 
Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Asstt, Turner Morrison & Co. Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Martin Burn Ltd 
Professor, Presidency College 

Prof, Bangabasi College 
Professor, Presidency College 
Dist Opp Supdt, E Rly 
Asst Mains Engineer, C E S C Ltd 


A I E K 

Ghose, Amitava, B('om, ca 

Ghose, A K 
Ghose, A. K. 

Ghose, A K 

Ghose, Amalendu Nath, boom, 
ACA 

Ghose, Amiya, MSe 
Ghose, Arniya Kumar, bsc, gieb 
GJiose, Apurba Kumar, MSe 
Ghose, Arun Kumar, ma (Double) 


Asst, Allahabad Bank Ltd 

Land Manager, Port Commissioner of Calcutta 
Asstt, I C 1 (India) Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 

Acctt, Steel Bros & Co Ltd 

Lect, Calcutta Technical School 

Asstt Mains Engr, CESC Ltd 
Lect, Presidency College 
Prof, City College 


1 10, S. N. lUiitTjii* 

P-13, Missmn Unw 
37, Chow !‘i nglior 
3, Strand U.uad 
10 Strand Bond 
25/1, Scot t Lanr 
23B Net aj i Sul>hasi 


13, RajeudraNa-th M 
kharjoe Keatl 
24/2, Harnsou 
12 Mission Bow 
0, Lyons Range 
12 Mission Ku" 
80-1, fV.lk-Ht' Ktrerf 



21 


Nome*. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or piaoe of 
business. 


(ihnsc, Arun Kr, Mac 
; (ijjose, Asit Kumar, ma, aca 
(L ond) 

| (jhoso, Asish Kumar, 
i (Jhosc. A R 
Ijl, Awoke Kr, ma, 

(ihosc, Atal Behari 

Oho, sc, B. B., ma 

Obese ' Baidyanath 

( 'hosli, Balaram. boom, asha 

(;hosc. Barindra Nath, BA 

Barindra Kumar, msc 

(Jhosc, Bliolanath, MSc 
q] 1 ( ,s(‘, Bidhu Bhusan, ma 
(those, Birendrn Chandra, bk, 

ahojs 

. ;h')se. B K 
Oliose, B K, MMGI 
(jhase, Bholanath, ma 
Ohose., Bhupendra Nath, 
licom, on A 

(jliosii, Birondra Nath, ma 
( those, Braja Copal, iimk 

: (those,, C. 

j Ohose, ( 'hitt.i ranja n . ma, pus 
! dhoso, Dibyondu 
Gliosc, Dovaprosad, bee 
liluisc, Dhirondra Nath, BSc, BK, 
CE, AMIE. 

(iliose, Dilip Kumar, MA 

Ohose, Dilip Kumar 

Ghose, Gopal Ch, ( * J Much E . . 

(JiOiid). 

I illOKC, ( \ 1 ) 

(those, It. M., MA, l)i}> SW 

Ohose, llaridas, BA 

Miosr, .lagannath, ma 

(those, .hteudra Nath 

(those, Kamalesli, ma . . 

(those, Kamalaprosad, ma 

(IIloso, Kamal Kr, 

(those, Kauailal 

Ghosc, Kanak, use, Brom, aca . . 
(those, Kartiek Chandra 
(lli«>s|i,Khagondra Bhusan. HA, bsom 
( those, Krishna Ch, msc 
(» hosu*, Kuniud Bandhu 


(Jhose, Lakshmi Charan, MA, AS, 
MA, ACA 

ftlios* Lai it Kumar, msc 
Ghose, Madan Mohan, MA, BL . . 

(•host iMohini jvfohnfi, use? 
hliost*, Maimjmoy, bsc, djipc 


^ 'hose, Monorail jan . . 

( 'hose, Nanda Rulal 
Miose, Nanda la l ma, d rhil 
r,1()iS( -> Naresh Ch. 

Gh()Se > Nripondra Nath, BA 
hhostt, Nirmal Chandra 
*liOvSt‘, Nirmalya Prosad 

hhoso, P 

('host*, Nitondra M 
r ^o } Pa,liay Kumar, Bcom, aca 


^•dip Knawr, itee 


Lact, Maoulana Azad College 
Asstt, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 


8 Wellesley Street 
B4, Gillander House 


Structural Engr, Jessop & Co Ltd 
Asstt Com Supdte, E Rly 

Professor, Bangahasi College 
Aectg Supvr, Standard Vacuum 
Asstt Controller, Stationery Office 
Asstt, dames Warren & Co Ltd 
Aoct, C.E.S.C. Ltd. 

Asstt Mangr, Orient Longman s Ltd 

Protessor, Bangahasi (College 

Loot, St Pauls Cathedral Mission College 

Asstt Prof, Maulana Azad College 

Dy Cliief Valuer, Calcutta Improvement Trust 


63, Netaji Subhas Road 
3 Eoilaghat Street. 

25/ 1 , Scott L«uie 
6, Church Lane 
3, Church Lane 
31 Chowringhee Road 
Victoria Home 
17 Chittaranjan Avenue 
25/1, Scott Italic' 

33/1 Amherst Street 
8, Wellesley Street 
10, Netaji Subhas Road 


Internal Auditor, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 

CM E, Coal Board 

Lecturer, Presidency College 

Audit & Aeett Officer, Calcutta University 


31, Chowringhee Road 
1 Council House Street. 
86/1, College Street 
Calcutta University 


Professor, Bangahasi College 

Engineer, Associated Eleetl Industries 
(Lndiah Ltd 

Asstt I . C. J. (India) Private Ltd 
Professor, Scottish Church College 
Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Jr Engr Associated Elctl Industries (India) Privt Ltd 
Project Engr, Planning, Planning & Dev Dept, 
Corporation of Calcutta. 

Prof, Suren dr a Nath College 
Asstt, James Finlays & Co Ltd 
Lecturer, Calcutta Technical School 

Asstt, Kilburn & Co Ltd 
Asstt Labour Commissioner, West. Bengal 
Sales Asstt, Metal Dept, Martin Burn Ltd 
Aeet, Marlin Burn 
Supervisor. Rail is India Ltd 
Lee, Maulana Azad College 
Prof, Vidvasagar College 
lnsc of Ac s Hd Office Port Commissioners 
Asstt, Metal Dept. Martin Burn Ltd 
Asstt, Ac( tt Deptt Bird & Co 

Asstt Acctg Supdt, Imperial Tobacco Co of India . . 
Accounts Asstt., Indian Cable Co, Ltd 
Professor, City College 

Asstt Aeett, Associated Electrical Industries (India) 
Private Ltd. 

Asstt, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 


25/1 Scott Lane 
13 Rejondra Nath Mu- 
kherjee Road 
34, Chowringhee 
3 Cornwallis Square 
12 Mission Row 
6, Mission Row 
5 S N Banerjec Road, 

24/2 Harrison Road 
2 Netaji Subhas Row 
110, Kurendra Nath 
Banerjec Road. 

2 Fairlie Place. 

New Secretariat Bldgs. 
12 Missoii Row 
12, Mission Row 
16 Hart 1 Street. 

8, We lies ly Street 
311, Sankar Chose Lane 
15, Strand Road 

12 Mission Row 
Chartered Bank Bldgs 
37, Chowringhee 

11 Hare Street. 

102-1, Amherst Street 

13 Raj end r a. Nath Mu- 
joe Road. 

B4 Cillandcr House 


Asstt in Math Presidency College 

Labour Adviser, Bengal Chamber of Commerce 

Professor, City College 

Jr Engr Associaed Elctl Industries (India) Privt Ltd 

Dept Sup* It , The Eastern Bank Ltd 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Professor. Presidency College 
Inpr of A (V s Hd Office, Port Commissioners 
Staff Offr, State Bank of India 
Traffic Asstt, Calcutta Tramways Co Ltd 
Jr. Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Asstt, T<k*1i Dept, Associated British Machine Tool 
Makers (India) Ltd. 

Asstt, Tech Dept, Associated British Machine Tool 
Makers (India) Ltd. 

Prof, St Xavier’s College 

Works Mhgr, Martin Bum Ltd - • 

t>ect, Bf Pauls Cathedral Mission College 
(jdntt*oll8f of Import** and Exports * * 

Prof* Butigabati OUeg* 


86/1, College Street 
6, Netaji Subhas Road 
102/ I^Amhe.isi Street 

13 Rajendr i Nath Mn- 
kherjee Road 

14 Netaji Subhas Bead 
4 Bankshall Street 
86-1, College Street 
15, Strand Road 

3 Strand Road 

P-4 Mission Row E>ktu 

4 Fairlie Place 
12 Mission Row 

6 Old Post Office Street 


6 Old Post Office Street 


30, Park Street 
VI Mission Row 
33 1 Amherst Street 
4 Esplanade East 
26/1 stoott Lam* 



22 


No. 


Names. 


Ghosh, Rakhal Chandra, MA 
Ghose, Rabindra Nath, MOom - • 
Ghose, Rabindra Nath, BCom, ACA 

Ghost*, R C 

Ghose, Ramesh Chandra, MA,Phu 
(Loud). 

Ghose, Ram Krishna, M8C 
Ghose, R. K. 

Ghost*, Sachindranath 


Style or calling. 


Professor, Bangabasi College 
Com Asstt Voltas Ltd 
Asstt, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 
Asst Engr, Port Commissioner Offioe 
Asstt Prof Presidencey College 

Professor, St Xavier’s College 
Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Asst, lira wing Office, Jos sop & Co Ltd 


Ghose, Sachindranath, 

CA11B, AIB 
Ghose, Sachindra Nath 
Ghose, Saileti Chandra, B8C, BEE, 
AMIK 

Ghost*, S K 
Ghose, 8 K 

Ghose, Sailendra Kumar 
Ghose, Saohinandan 
Ghose, Sai lent ira Natn 
Ghoso, Sail I Chandra, MA 
Ghose, Samir Kumar, MSc 
Ghose, Sainirendra Kumar, BA 
Ghose, Sanjib, MSc 
Ghose, Santanu Kumar 
Ghose, Santosh Kumar, BE(Mech) 
(Calcutta) amif (Lond) amie 
(India). 

Ghose, Saral Kumar 
Ghose, Satyabrata, ACA (Loud) 
Ghose, Shibaprosad, Boom 
Ghose, Sisir Kumar, bsc 
Ghose, S K, BSe (Engg) 

Ghose, 8. B- 

Ghost*, S R. MCom • ♦ 

Ghose. Srutiraj, bsc, bsc (Loud) 
Ghose, Subhransu 

Ghoso, Subas ( -h. 

(ihose, Subhas Kr. MSc, DPhil . . 
Ghosts, Subhas Chandra, bme 
Ghose, Sudeb Bhusan, MSc 
Ghose, Sudhendu Narayan, msc, 
<3 DA. 

(ihose, Sudhindra Nath 
Ghose, Sudhir Kumar, ACA 
Ghose, S M, BA, BL 
Ghose, Sudhir Mohon, Msc, boom 
(ihose, Sudhangsu Ranjan, ma . . 
Ghose, Sukumar, ma 
Ghose. Sukumar. MA, LLB 
Ghose, Sunil Chandra, BSc, DFH 
(Loud) 

(ihose, Sunil K inner 

(ihose, Sydney Salil Kumar, msc 
Ghose, Tamil Kumar, bsc (Cal), 
bsc (KR Engr) bso (Meeh) 
Ghosh, Tejomaya, mso, fla 
Ghose, Ushanath, MCom 
Ghose, Barman, Ajit Kumar, baa 
Ghost? Pa-stldar, J. B.,MA, ACA 
(India) 

Ghose Dastidar, S 
Ghose Dastidar. K C, BA 
(Jhose Majumdar, Subhendu, MSc, 
DPhil 

BA 


BSc, Sub Aoctt, The Chartered Bank 


Asstt Engr, Cal Tramways Co Ltd 
Asst Mains Engl , C E S C Ltd 

Asstt, Commercial Supdt, E Rly 
Asstt, Time Table Officer, E Rly 
Sub-Acctt, Reserve Bank of India 
Genl Asstt Birla Bros 
Ch Hmmmnei Officer, C. E. S. C. Ltd 
Staff officer, Chartered Bank 
Prof, St Xaviour’s College 

Supdt, R B ol India 
prof, City College (Evening) 

Asstt, Bird & Heilgers , XT 

Lisp of Smoke Nuisance Dicte, Smoke Nuisance 


Residence or p] aCf 

business. 

26/1 Scott Lam: 

15, Strand Road 
86/1, College Street 

30, Park Street 
12 Mission Row 

63, Netaji Subhas % 
Calcutta- 1 
4 Netaji Subhas H ()a( ] 

P4 Mission Row Extn 
Viotoria House (\ 
ringhec Nquaio 
3 Koilaghat Stm-i 
E Rly House. 

8, Council House Sire 
. 8, India Exchange p 

Viotoria House 
. 4 Netaji Subhas Ko, 

. 30 Park St reel 

8 ( Vnmeil Hons* St n 
102/1 Amheivt Sim 
. ( ■hartered Bank lhul( 

60B, Chou nnghiT ] 


Giani, N. S 
Gibbs, J F 
« lidley, A G 
Gidwani, G 


M. 


Gidwani, N M, BSc, BE, MT, 
AMIE 

Godonho, DE 

Goenka, Narayan Prosad, MA 


Asstt, Mains Engr, C. E. S. C. Ltd 
Asstt, Price Warehouse Peat & Co 
Staff Officer, The Chartered Bank 
Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 
Engr, Indian Aluminium (Jo Ltd 
Asstt Accounts Officer, E Rly 
Prof, St Xavier's College 

Chief Inspector, Smoke Nuisance Dina t orate . . 
Enginoer-in-oharge, Associated Electrical Industries 
(Tndia), Ltd. 
lilt Auditor, Jessop & Co 
Asstt/ Prof, Maulana Azad ( Allege 
Insp of Boilers, Director of Boilers 
Prof, Bangabasi (College . . . . / 

Asstt, Accountant, Associated Electrical Lndustiies 

(India), Ltd. 

Acctt. Lipton Lndia Ltd 
Asstt, Gillanders Arbuthnot & Co Ltd 
Welfare Officer, DAG. P <K: 1 
Professor, Vidyasagar College 
Lecturer, St Paul’s College 
Professor, St Xavier’s College 
Prof, City ( Allege (Com) ^ 

E H T Engr, Mains Depit, C E S ( 

Asstt Engr, Associated Electrical Industries (ind) 
Pte Ltd. 

Assistant, Gillanders Arbuthnot & Co, Ltd 
Asst, Sub/St.n, Engr, C E S C Ltd 

Actuary Life Inse. Corpn Eastern Zone 
Staff Officer, State Rank of India 
Lecturer, Surendra Nath College 
Acctt, C E S C Ltd 

Asstt Acctt s Officer. E Rly 
Asstt, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 
Prof, Bangabasi College 

Dy Asstt Controller, Iron & Steel Controller 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Secy, Martin & Burn Ltd 
Dy Chief Acctts Officer, E Rly 
Operation Mangr, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 

Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 

Asstt, Octavius Steel and Co Ltd 


Victoria House 
B4 Gillander Huiim 
4, Netaji Subhas ho 
8, Council House St 
3J Chowringhoe les 
E Rly House 
30 Park St reel 
BOB, Chowringln** 1 1 
13 Rajendra Nath 
khorjee Road 
63 Netaji Subhas 
8 Wellesley Street 
1 , Hastings Street 
26/1 Scott Lane 
13 Rajend ,, a N.tth 
klierjee R >ad 
0 Weston St i eel 
Gillander House 
7 Koilaghat Hoad 
39, Shankar Chose 
33/1, Amlu i »>t Sim 
30, Park Street 
13 Surva Sen St i eel 
Victoria House 

13 Rajendra Aatl 
klierjee Hoad, 

Chve Building* 

96, Prince]) Street 

Hindusthan Ihnldii 

3 Strand Road 
24, Harrison Rnact 
Victoria House 

on. w.' yr 

31 Chowringlu^ 
25/1 Scott Lane 

33 Netaji Subhas 

4 Clive R°" 

]2, Mission R<‘ vV 
E Rly H°nsc 

6 Church Lane 

4 Clive R^'- 

14 Old Court Hot*" 



No. 


Ninei* 


23 

Style or calling. 


Goonka, Madhav Prosad 
G«>ho. Ratan Chand 
Gomes, Albert, moom 

Gonsalves, MR 
Goldsmith, William Nicholas 
Gomes, A J, MA 
( ;omes, BE 
Gomes, B C 

(Jomcs, Francis, ba 

(Jollies, L, MA . . 

Gomez, Bertram Laurence 
Goinczr, R D 
Goineze, R. S. 

Gopal Krishnan, C R, BA 
( jnjiri I Ivrishnan, P V, BA 
(jo re, Natish Jaswant, BSc (Lond), 
A (Hi I 

(ionsalvcs, I A L 
G madia, P 

Gn.swa.mi, A N, MCom 
(Joswami, A joy Kumar, ba 
(Joswamy, P N 
(Joswami, C C 

(Joswami, Praniathanath, mso 
(J oswami, R G, MCom 
(Joswami, Rabindra Nath 
Goswami, Satyendranath, mso . . 
(Joswami, Srikrishna, ma 
Goswaini, U. 

(Jovindaranjan, MT, BL, Chem . . 
Engg. 

(Jraham, K. E. 

Gracias, Luis 
Grant, D. A. 

Grantham Douglas Fardan 
(i ray, James 
Gray, Richard Neil 
(Jrccn, Bryan McDonald 
Green, Gilbert Harold 
< Jnllit hs, Glauville 

(Griffiths, Michael John 


Asstt, Octavius Steel &> Co Ltd 
Asstt, Personal Dept, Bird A Co Pte Ltd 
Asstt Bengal Chamber of Commereo 
Asstt Tuner, Morison A. Co Ltd 
Director, Carrit A Moran A Co, Private Ltd 
Prof, St Xavier’s College 
Administration Officer, Statesman 
Sr Office Asst t (Supplies) Imperial Tobacco Co of 
India Lid 

Ill-Charge, Shipping Dept, Alfred Herbert, India, Ltd 
Prof, St. Xavier’s College 
Chief Wagon Estimator, Jessup A Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Agencies Dept , Martine Burn Ltd 
Asstt., Burn A Co Ltd 
A A O. D A G, PA T 
A A O, D A (J, P AT 

Mngr, Paterson Engineering Co (India) Pit Ltd 

Indian Officer, Hongkong A Shanghai Banking Corpn 

Asstt, J Thomas A (Jo Pte Ltd 

Secretarial Dept, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 

Sub Acctt, Reserve Bank of India 

Asst Audit. Officer, F RIy 

Sr Asstt Financial Adviser, E Rlv 

Prof, Bangabiisi College 

Asstt, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 

Wagon Drawing Office, Jessop A Co 

Lee, Maulana Azad College 

Prof, Vklyasagar College 

Asstt, Mackiimon Mackenzie & Co, Ltd 

Asstt, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 

Asstt Opp Supdt, E RIy 
Asstt, Rallis (India), Ltd 
Asstt, Jan lino Henderson Ltd 
Sr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall A Co Ltd 
Aeelt, Lipton India Ltd 

Saleroom Asstt. Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 
Ch Acctt, Heatly & Grasham Ltd 
Asstt, Mather & Platt, Ltd 

Director and Technical Manager, George Spencer 
Mant-on A Co Pte Ltd. 

Asst, Williamson Magor A Co Ltd 


(Julia, Arun Kumar, be (Elect) . . 
amice Grade. Ins. Prod. E. Lond. 
Cuba, Bishnupada, MSc 
Cuhit, Benutosh 
( dih a, Biswajit, MSC 
Cuba, Jaharlal, ma 

Gum., J K, MA 

Guha, Dr. Mritunjoy Prosad, 

MSc DPhil. 

Giilui, Prabir Kumar 
Guli.c Prabhas Kumar 
Guha, Promode Ranjan 
Guha, S R 

Gulnt, Sudhir Ch., BA 


Constr. Engr, C E S C Ltd 

Prof, City College 

Prof, City College (Com Dept) 

Professor. Bangabusi College 

Lecturer, Goenka College of Commerce & Business 

Adm. 

Asstt, Dr Pub, Home (Pub) Dept 
Asstt Prof Maulana Azad College, 

Asstt, Janies Finlay A Co Ltd 
Jr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall A Co Ltd 
Asstt, Stewarts & Lloyds of India Pte Ltd 
Asstt, I C I (India) Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Burmah Oil Co (India Trading) Ltd 


(iiilm, s K, MA 
•uha Roy, Nirmal Kumar 
."liii, Thaknrta, Amal Kun 
<J Uin, S. 

J;»n, Atindra Mohan, ma 
J*upta, Arabindu 
Gu Pta, A. K. 

Ajit, BA 

Gu P to . Dilip, MSc 
G «pla, D N 
Gu Pta, A L 

G «Pta. Hirendra Nath, me 
Joy m, 


Dy Chief Controller of Imports A Exports 
Asstt, Bird & Heilgers 
Asst, Shaw Wallace A Co Ltd 
Asstt, Turner Morrison & Co Pte Ltd 
Asst t Professor, Presidency College 
W & T, S Calcutta Improvement Trust 
Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 
Dy Dr Pul) (Dev A Planning) Home (Pub) Dept . . 
Prof Vidyasagar College 
Asstt, Macneill A Barry Ltd 
Dy Ch Operating Supdt,. E Rty 
Lecturer, St Paul's College 
Controller of Stores Maine Dept, G< E. S« C« Ltd . 


Residence or place of 
business. 

14 Old Court House St. 
Chartered Bank Builds. 

6, Netaji Subhas Road 
0 Lyons Range 

9, Mission Row 
JO Park Street 
1 . Clm wring bee Square 
37 Chowringhee Road 

13/3, Strand Road 
JO. Park St i eel 

03, Netaji Subhas Road 
1 Mission Row 

12 Mission Row 
7 lvm highlit Road 

7 Koilaghaf Road 
21 Theatre Road 

J I Dalahoiisie Square 
S Mission Row. 

J 1 ( Chowringhee Road 
8, Council House Street 
Iff, Strand Road 
Eastern RIy House 
2.7 1 Scott Lane 
31 Chowringhee Road 
93 Netaji Subhas Road 
8, Welles Jy Street 
39, Sankar Ghose Lane 
16, Strand Road 
31 Chowringhee Road 

E RIy House 
10, Hare Street 
4 Clive Row 
4 Fairlic Place 

9 Weston St reel. 

2 Met calfe St root 

31 Chittaranjan Avenue 

7, H are Street 

II A 12 Esplanade, 
Mansions. 

4, Mangoc Lane, Cal- 
eutta- 1 

Victoria House, Chow- 
ringbee Squero 
1 02- 1 , Amherst Street 
13. Nmya Sen Street; 

2.7/1 Seott Lane 
210, Bow bazar Street 

Writers' Buildings 

8 Wellesley Street. 

2 Netaji Subhas Road 
4 Fairlic Place 
41 Chowringhee Road 
34 Chowringhee 
28-20 India Exchange 
Place. 

4 Esplanade Fast 
( 'harteredBank Buildings 
4, Katikshall Stieet 
ff Lyons Range 
86/ i College Stiert 

10 Net a ) i Subhas Road 
12, Mission Row 

Writers' Buildings 
39 Shankar Ghose Lane 
2 Fairlic* Place 
E RJy House 
33/1, Amherst Street 
Victoria House 



Names. 


Style or calling. 


Gupta KL 

Gupta, Milan Kumar, MSO 
Gupta, Mriual Kanti 
Gupta, Mriual Kanti, ma 
Gupta, Nripendra Nath, MA 
Gupta, K 
Gupta, Sahdev 
Gupta, Shibadas, A C A 

( iiipta. S K 

Gupta. Shyainal Kumar, MSo 
Gupta, Sudhansu Kumar, ma 
Gupta, Tapan Kumar, BMP] 

Gupta Sarma, Kshetro Gopal, ma 


H 

Haider, Dhruba Kumar, hme 
Halbert. John Stanley 

Hall Edward Berney, ARCS, BSc 
Halliday, Stanley Arthur 
Hammond, A F 

Hundignc, N K 
Henderson, A. K. J. 

Henderson, Ian Malcolm 
Hardy, H 0 

Harihar, P »S 

Hariharan K, BSc, (‘A, 11 B 
Hareourt . S J L 
Harris, DM 
Harris, J. 

Harrisson, A C M 
Han ison, P l>, ACA 
Harper-Smith, P] M 

Hartlv, K J H, F C A 
Harvey, J G 

Mali ram, Pesi Dadibar, BA, ACA 
Hawkins, Jack 
Hayworth, EC 

llazra, Ajit Kumar, bme 
AMIE (India), 
llazra, B I> 

Hazra, Basudev 
Hazra, Rajendra Oh (Dr) 

Hazra, Sanat- Kumar 
Heath, Ronald Harding 

Hebb. K 

Henimad, G S. BM E 
Heridgc. F I ( 5 
Higham, G P 

Hill, R R 
Hindmarsh, F W 

Hockaday, 1) J 

Hollander, TR 


Asst Engr, Port Commissioners 
Leo, Presidency College 
Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Professor, Bangabasi College 
Lect in English, St. Paul’s College 
Asstt, Maepcili & Barry Ltd 
Director, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
C A George Read & Co 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 

Asstt, Elec Eng Depatt, Martin & Burn Ltd 

Professor, City College (Com Dept) 

Lect, Calcutta Technical School 

Professor, City College 


R«rid«ao8 or pUc e o, 
business. 

15, Strand Roatl 
86/1, College Street 
12 Mission Row 
25/1 Scott Lane 
33-1 Amherst Street 
2 Fairlie Place 
37 Chowringhee 
Avenue House, pj^ 
ringhee Square. 

4 Bankshall Siren 
12 Mission Row 
13, Mirzapur St reft, 
110 Surendra Nath Bar 
Bauer jee Roarl 
1 02-1, Amherst Street 


Lecturer, Calcutta Technical School 
Manager for India, Associated British Machine Tool 
Makers (India) Ltd 
Asstt, Bird & Co (Pte) Ltd 
Stores Asstt. Brooke Bond (India), Ltd 
Officer, National & Grindlays Bank Ltd, Lloyds 
Branch. 

Asstt, B B Si. J Construction Co Ltd 
Dir, .James Waren & Co 
Ch Aectt, James Waren & Co 

Chief P]ngr & Director, Associated Elec. Industries 

Mech Engr, E Rly 
Prob Asstt, RB«i India 
Asstt, James Finlays & Co Ltd 
Secy, Statesman Ltd 
Engr. Babcock & Wilcox 
Asst, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Acctt, Makcuiron Machenjus Co 
Sub-Manager, National & Grindlays Bank Ltd, 
Lloyds Branch. 

Partner, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 
Financial Aectt, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Territory Auditor, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Asst Genl Works Jessop & Co Ltd 
Manager, Supply Depatt, Imperial Tobacco Co of 
India Ltd. 

Lecturer, Calcutta Technical School 

l)y Asstt, Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel, Iron 
and Steel Control. 

Asstt, B B & J ( •onstruction Co Ltd 
Prof, Sanskrit College 

Sales Engr, Babcock & Wilcox of (lnd) Ltd 
Asst Commercial Manager, C E S C Ltd 

Asstt Supdt Engr, British India Steam Navigation 
Co Ltd. 

Asstt, Gillandcrs Arbuthnot 

Sub-Manager, Mercantile Bank Ltd 

Covenanted Officer, National & Grindlays Bank, . . 

Ltd. (Lloyds Br) 

Asstt, I C I (India) Pte Ltd 

Chief Manager’s Asstt, National & Grindlays Bank 
Ltd, Lloyds Branch. 

Asstt, James Warren & Co Ltd 

Mg Divootor * J Thomas A Co Flo Ltd * • 


IK) S. N. Banerjee Kd 
6 Old Post Ollier Smi 


CharteredBank Buildinj 
2 Metcalge Streel 
29 Netaji Niihhub II oat 


P-13 Mission Row E*ti 
31 Chowringhee Road 
31 Chowringhee Road 
13, Rajendra Nath 
Milk her jee Road 
E Rly House 
8 Council House Nurd 
2 Netaji Su blurs Rond 
4 Chowringhee Squarr 
123, Braboune Road 
4, Clive Row 
16 Strand Rood 
29 Netaji Suhhas Road 


B4 Gillander Hoiac 
37 Chowringhet Road 
6 Church Lane 
63, Netaji Suhhas R"» 
37 Chowriiigln e Road 


1 JO, Surendra W 
Banerjee Road 

33 Netaji Suhlms Roan 


13 Mission Row E^ 
ynskrit College 
& 3 Brahourne R (,at 


ringhee Square 
16 Strand Road. 


GilJender House'. 

8 Netaji Suhhas Road 

29, Netaji Subha* R° a 

34, Chowringht* 

29 Netaji S'O.ha^ R" 

81 ChowTi'ngh^ 

t He« 



Name*. 


25 

Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business 


Hormasji, A J 
Hornigold, James 
}{a I ton, W. D. 

Hor. Ajit Kumar 
Horberry Timottey Clifford 
Houghton, David Allan 
llowitt, George Edward 
HuU-hins, H R 
HuUhcws, W M 
Huttheson, D C 


Seoy, Turner Morrison & Co Pte Ltd 

Br Engr, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 

Asstt, Bird ft Hedgers 

Asstt, Burn & Go Ltd 

Engr, Lipton Ltd 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace ft Co, Ltd 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 

Personal Manager, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Br Manager Sales, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Asstt, Thomas Duff & Co (Ind) Ptc Ltd 


6, Lyons Range 
37, Chowringhee 
Chartered Bank Buildings 
12 Mission Row 
9, Western Street 
4, Bankshall Street 
4 Bankshall Street 
37 Chowringhee Road 
37 Chow ringhee Road 
3 Clive Row' 


I 


hnpett, P. W. 

Inch's, Dudley Stanley 

Ismail JVhl. use (Edin) ce 
Italia, K S 
Iyengar, IVt K N 

Iwn-jir Uamakrishan ns-; (Ecoid 
Ivor, NS 
Iyer, K R 


Dist Op Supdt, E lily 
Mains .Jointer, G E S C Ltd 

Asstt Engineer Cal Improvement Trust 

Chartered Aectt, Thomas Duff ft Co (India) Pte Ltd 

Asstt, Burn & Co I Ad 

Secy Avery ft Co 

Asstt, I C I (India) Pte Ltd 

Administrative, Guest Keen William Ltd 


K Rlv House 
Victoria House, Chow- 
riughee Square 
13, Netaji Subhas Road 
3 , ( 'live Row 
12, Mission Row 
Avery House 
34, Chowringhee 
41, Chowringhee Rd 


J 


.Jacob, ,7 K 

•Jacob, M p 

Jackson, W H 

Jacques, J W 

•I affray, D M 

-him, A P, BCom, ACA 

Jam. Kamcsh Kumar 


Jalundlrwala Ramanlal Cldiatalal 
B(JOM, fsaa 
James K C, MSc 
James Ahrander Moore, CA 

Januvull. Dal jit Singh 

Jaaliar, OK 

Jayaram, H, ACA 

Jay aka r. K P 

Jayavant. Deopak Anaut 

Jarvir,, J 0 

Jcs.sop Eric 

•|rtmalnmi. Sunder Das BSe(Moeh 
"«• 1> R <:a, aca 
, a - Murari Lai, BA, BL 
, an "‘ ai „. MA, BKiMecli) 

H L 

,,r >hn, p e 

■Tohn^on, Malcolm 

John*! 11 ’ ,^ 0 ' >er ^' Love Holmes . . 
,7 H ie Boyer 
Mn Williams ^ 

J °oanneB, Norman 

J°hri, j B 


Asstt, Jardine Henderson, Ltd 
Asstt Engr, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Mangr, Mercantile Bank Ltd 
Asstt, J Thomas & Co Pte Ltd 
Director, Turner, Morrison ft Co Ltd 
Asstt, Price Waterhouse Peat ft Co 
Jr Engr, Associated Electrical Industrial (lnd) Pto 
Ltd 

Dy Mg Scindia Steam Nav Co Ltd 
Prof, St Xavier’s College 

Finance Director, Dunlop Rubber Co (India) Pie 
Ltd. 

Asst t , Octavius St eel ft Co Ltd 
Asstt, J Thomas & Co Pte Ltd 

Internal Audit/ Deptt, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd . . 

Asstt, Raffia India Ltd 

Asstt, Balmer Lawrie ft Co Ltd 

Asstt, Shalimar Paint, C & V Co, Ltd 

General Manager, Gestetner Duplicators Pte Ltd 

Manager. I R P, Dunlop Rubber Co (India) Pte Ltd 

Asstt, Jardine Henderson Co. , Ltd 

Asstt Mngr, Scindea Steam Nav. Co Ltd 

Asstt Controller, Stationery < ffice, Govt, of Ti dia 

Asstt, Baboock ft Wilcox 

Asstt to Finance Director, Imperial Tobacco of India 
Ltd 

Asstt Aoctt, Mercantile Bank Ltd 
Director, A M Mair & Co Pte Ltd 
Actg Aectt, Hongkong ft Shanghai Banking Corpn 
Chief Engr (Bridges), B B & J Construction Co Ltd 
Asst, Williamson Magor ft Co Ltd 

Affftt, The Indian Iron ft Steel Co Ltd 


4, Clive Row 

37 Chowringhee Road 
Mercantile Bank 

5, Mission Row 
(> Lyons Range* 

B4 Gillander House 
13 Rajemlra Nath Mu- 
jee Road. 

33, Netaji Subhas Road 


30 Park Street 

57B Free School Street 

14 Old Court House St. 
8 Mission Row 
3J Chowringhee Road 
1 6 Hare Street 
21 Netaji Subhas Road 
6, Lyons Range 
9 A, Esplanade East 
f>7B Free School Street 
4, Clive Row 
33, Netaji Subhas Road 

3, Church Lam 
123 Bmbowne Rd 

37 Chowringhee Road 

8 Netaji Subhas Roas 
14 India Exchange Placo 
3 1 , Dalhousie Sq 
P13, Mission Row Extn. 

4, Mangoe Lane, Cal- 
cutta-1 

12, Mission Row 



26 


No. 


Names. 


Style or oaUing. 


Residence or p] aQe 
business. 


Joseph, Anthony M 
Jones, J 

Joshi, 1) 11, BA, BL 
Joshi, G R M, BA, LLB 
Joyoe, W F 
Judge, M S 


Sup Acctt, State Bank (Park St Br) 

Asstt, Turner Morrison & Co Ltd 

Secy & Treasurer, State Bank of India 

Asst, Indian Chamber of Commerce 

Asstt, Bengal Chamber of C. mmeTce 

Asstt, Shalimar Paint, Colour Varnish Co Ltd 


Queens Mansion 
G Lyons Rang*, 

J , Strand Road 
India Exchange }% 
0, Netaji Suiiiid.s |;, 
6 Lyons Rang M 


K 


Kalra, Rabindra Nath 
Kalyanaum, S 
Kalyanvzla. J F N 
Kanhomva, MA 
Knnango, Bijayauanda 
Kapur, Bisweswar Nath 

Kapoor, A 
Kapoor, I > K 
Kapur, 1 )urga Narain 
Kapoor, Jagmohan 
Kapur, J K 

Kapur, Kailash Nath 

Kapur, UN 

Kar, Aslioke Kumar, MSr 
Ka.r, Monora.n ja-n, M \ 
lvar. Nisi tli Ranjan, ms<\ Plid 
(Gottn) 

Kar, S 
Kar, S K 

Kar, Subodh Kumar, BSe BA 
AS A A ISA ( I ms Ace! I ) 

Kar, Tapash Kumar, B Tech 
Karkoon Amalkumar, BA, CAIIB 
Karma kar, Haripado, MCom 
Karmakar. i'rafulia Chandra, msc 
Kama! , I) I), BA (Cant ah), BA 
(Hons) (Bom). 

Kar Roy, Ramendra Narain, BSc, 
BChE, M( JhE (IT S A) 

Karnik, B B 
Kathuri, NS 
Katariya, M N 
Kashokar, Y L 
Katre, W K 

Katiyar, Hr R N, Msc, PhD 
Katoch, B S, BSc, MA 
Kaul, Promode Kumar 
Kaui a., Sl\ 

Ked.ia Banarasi Prosad 
Kolkar Y I), Msc (Tech) 

Kelly Prank James 

Khaitan, S 8 

Khanna, S C 

Khan, Abbas Ali, ma 

Klian, F S, BA 

Khan, ma, BCom, Ac a (Eng) 

Khan, Neaz Aliiued, ma 
Khanna, B C 
Khanria, Kamal 
Khanna, Kailash Chandra 
Khanna, MM 
Khan, M AT, bk (Mech) 

Khanna, R C , LLB 
Khanna, Ram Murfci 
Khauna, Ramesh Nath 
Kichlu, V Iv 

Killiek, John Neil Charles 
Kinkead, W VV, BA 
Kingsley, A B 
Kirkus Curthbirt Nail 
Kishore, K 


Director, G Atherton & Co (Pte) Ltd 
Asstt, I C I (India) Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Turner Morrison & Co Ltd 
Staff’ Officer State Bank of India 
Asstt, Industrial Dept. Bird & Co Pte Ltd 
Sr Asstt, Allahabad Bank Ltd 

Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Asstt, Kilburn & Co Ltd 
Managing Director, Place, Siddmis & Gough (Pte) Ltd 


Asstt, Bengal Flour Mills 
Asstt, Bird & lleilgers 

Asst t Managing Director, Placid, 
(Pte) Ltd 

Asstt , Macncill & Barry Ltd 
Lect, Presidency College 
Prof Bangabasi College 
Prof, Presiden<*y College 


4, Misson Row 
34 Chowringoo 
G Lyons Range 
J Strand Road 
Chartered Rank H u j] r 
14 B India K.Vi-lian 
Place. 

4 Clive Row 
Fair lie PKum ? 

G Lyons Range 
Sibpur, llow ran 
Chartered ] 

Buildings 
Siddons & Gough G Lyons Range 

2 Fairlie Place 
. . SO /1 ( College Si IM | 

. . IP, Scot 1 Ljuh* 

80/ 1 College Street 


Asstt, 1 C I (India) Pte Ltd 
Asstt Com Supdt, E Illy 
Prof Vidyas g r College 


3*4, ( 'lim\ tanglier 
J Koila (ili.it Mrit»t 
3h, Sliankai CWliL. 


Engr. Paterson Engineering Co (India) Pte Ltd 

Stall Officer, ( Chartered Bank 

Supdt (Ofltg), R B of India 

Lecturer, Presidency College 

J)y Sales Manager, Tata Iron & St. eel Co Ltd 


2], Tliealre Road 
4 Nota.j i Su blu-' iKi 
8, Conned House Nn 
SG/I Collect Nml 
23 B Notuji Sulih.b]! 


Chemical Engr, Paterson Engineering Co (India) 
Pte Ltd 

Asstt., Shalimar Paint., Coulour & Varnish Co Ltd . . 
Asstt., Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Asstt, 1(11 (India) Pte Ltd 

Jt Sales Manager, Brooke Bond Lidia Pte Ltd . . 
Cal Engr Supdt, Scindia, Steam Navigation Co Ltd 
Sr Asst t. for Insect Sect ion, Zoological Survey of India 
Asstt, Production Dcptt. Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 
Asstt, Williamson Magor & (Jo 
Asstt, Mac in dll & Barry Ltd 
Direct' r. Anderso • Wr.ght Ltd. 

Asstt Director (Shipping), Ministry of Steel, Mines 
& Fuel, Iron <fe Stool Control. 

Ch Acctt, Lipton Ltd 
Asstt, A W Figgis & (Jo Pte Ltd 
Asstt Acctt N.».( innal G in 1 * la.y J s Bank 
Asst Prof, Maulana Azad College 
Asstt Sales Manager, Tata Iron &. Steel Co Ltd 
Acctt A <fc .J ma r & C*» 

Lee, Maulana A/. ad College 

Asst t Com Supdt., E Illy (Catering) 

Asstt, James Warren <fe (Jo Ltd 

Taxation Acctt, Imperial Tobacco Co of India, Ltd 

Asstt, Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co, Ltd 

Asst, Production Dept, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd . . 

Sales Deptt, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 
Assistant, Macncill & Barry, Ltd 
Sr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Turner Morrison & Co Ltd 
Goal Mangr, Steel Bros & Co Ltd 
Mangr, Avery & Co of India Pte Ltd 
Mug Dire, J Thomas & Co Pte Ltd 
Director, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Asstt, I C I (India) Pte Ltd 


2] , Theatre Bowl 


G Lyons Range 
4 Clive Bow 
34, Chew rii.nl i re 
2 Met, i lt<‘ Sr not 
33 Netaji Siil'li. I 

34 C Mi it tai.iMjaii \\ 

3 l , Chow MliL-lirr Rea 

4 Mango* Bam* 

2 Faii’ln* Plan* 

7 Welled Pl.w 
33 Nota.j i Stikli-i" 1 


i Street 
[r [i *1 Hnas 1 

* St 

i SiiRh ;ls 
S..I.I. Kd 
r St 

li.It Si'g 

jlgoe l* ,,(l ' 
•mgliee. K' ia 

1 Vi 

ringh^ h< 

a-16 n | 

nghee 



Names. 


27 

Style or oalling. 


Knox John 

Kochhar, Sundarshan Kumar . . 
Kochhar, S L 
Kohli, JN 

Kothari, Bejoy Singh 
Krishnamurthy, R, 

Krishna Murthi, Tumuluri, ha, 
aca, boom 

Krishnaswamy, S, ba 
J vrishnsawamy, T It, ma 
K rishnan, C K 
Krishnan, LN A 
Krisnan, N S 
Krishnan, R G 
K undra, K K, BSc (Mooli) 

Kudva Nandaliko Madhara 

Krishnan, T It 
hulkarni, S R 
Krishnan, T N 
Kumar, Ashoke, BA 
Kumar, Madan Mohan, ma 
K umblo, DSN 

Kit uanani, I\f«>li Ilardirenan, .. 
HA, BCOM 

Kundu, Bimalondu 
Kuiidu, Chintaha ran, boom . . 
Kundu, Madan Mohan 
Kundu, Nilmony, BA, LLB 
K hi it hi . Nirmil ( 'h.iudrn, ma, 
ns ic Dip sw 
Kundu, Sambhu Nath 
Kundu, S K 

him, N'anda Kumar, MSC 
Kunc\]la, 1 


Marine & Miso Asstt, Insurance Deptt, Bird & 
Heilgers 

Asstt, Balmer Lawrio & Co I Ad 

Asstt, I C I (India) Vie Ltd 

Dy Ch Operating Nupdt, E Rlv 

Asstt, Hanro Miller Co Ltd 

Asstt 1 C I (India) Pte Ltd 

Asstt Acctt, Brook Bond (India) Pte Ltd 

Asstt Aeetts Officer, Office of the Sr D AG P A T 
Asst Secy, Indian Chamber of (Commerce 
Commercial Asstt , B B & .1 Constrn Go Ltd 
Inspector of Aeetts, Port Commissioners 
Administration, Guestkoen Williams Ltd 
Asstt Engr, E Rly 

Asstt, Production Deptt, India Aluminium Go Ltd. . 
Co Engr, Associated Electrical Industries (Inti) Pte 
Ltd. 

Asstt, Kilburn & Go Ltd 

Asst t, Balmcr Lawrio & Co Ltd 

Asstt , Rallis India Ltd 

See Ollieer, Tata Iron & Steel Co Ltd 

Asst, Prof, Presidency College 

Asstt, Shaliruar Paint, Colour Varnish ( k > Ltd . . 
Asstt Burma!) Oil Co (India) Tr,.d,i g Ltd 

Asstf, Gladstone Lvall & Co Ltd 

Acctt, Scottish Union & National Jnsco. Co 

Supervisor, Rallis India, Ltd 

Asstt, Duulop Rubber Co (India) Ltd 

Asstt Labour Commissi* »i <*? , W B 

Asstt, Rallis India Ltd 

Asstt/ Controller of Stores, E Rly . . 

Prof, St Xavier's College 
Asstt, 1 V 1 (Jndia) Pte Ltd 


L 


Laha, Kailash Ch, bee, amje 


bahiri, Anil Kumar, use 
baliiri. Ashoke Chandra, MA 
Lahiri, G C, BA 
Lahiri. (4 C 
Lahiri, J C 

Lahiri, N trend ra Natli MA 
Lahiri, Saehindra Chandra, bsc 
Laluri. Sukhamoy, msc 
Hilnri. Tarun Bikash, MSO 
Using, I M 

kaing »l ohn Cuthbert 

Lakhanoy Ram Part aprai 

LaUu, P N, ma 

Lak .hmi Narayan, S 

Lull D S p 

La 11, B B 

La If iMahendra 

Lai, Menohar, BA 

I^ll, I'urshotam, ma 

La 11, S 

Lama. J B 

j jiUlf T Lawrence Eric 
Liuigrana N N 


A'iskar, Probodh Chandra, MSc 
Last , C A J 
mior, J (J 

Law Terence George 
bawrie, Alistair 
■rfX) Harold Grrdon 
Lt * ( Wq, A. F. V. 

Loi3 Emery, William Brian 
r U ' s ' ^-rwick Alexander 

r"V‘i; sU r, O. K. 

Liddle, T. A. 

Logwood Norman 
Wio r, H E 
Lobo, J. 


Inspecting Officer, Electricity Durv, W Bengal 
Directorate of Electricity 
Engr, English Electric ('Jo, Ltd 
Prof, City College (Evening) 

Dy Asst.t, Iron & Steel Controller 
Divl (Join Dupdt, E Rly 

Administration. Guostkoon Williams Ltd . . 

Assistant, Scottish Union National lose Co. . . 

Asst t, MeLood & Co 
Asstt Prof, Presidency (Jollcge 
Leetmvr, Prt sidcncy College 
Asst t , •Tardino Henderson Ltd 
Partner, Loveloi-k & Lewis 
Asstt, B B & J Constrn Co Ltd 
Asst t Supdt, Tea Board 
Asstt, Macncill & Barry Ltd 

Asstt, Shalirnar Paint, Colour & Varnish (Jo Otd . . 
Mach Engr, E Rly 

Member, Board of Management, dessop & (Jo Ltd . . 
Asstt, Eastern Bail way 
Professor, St Xaviers (Jollcge 
Asstt, Bird & Heilgers 
Sub Ediror, Statesman Ltd 
Ch Engr, Lmperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Asstt, Rallis India Ltd 
Professor, Surondra Nath College 
Mercantile Asstt, MacKinnon Maekengie & Co 
Asstt, Mae noil I & Barry Ltd 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Visiting Agent, Balmer Laurie & Co Ltd 
Asstt Offr, Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corpn 
Manager, South British Insurance Co Ltd 
Manager Insurance Dept, Bird <fc Co, Ltd 
Asstt, The Angus (Jo Ltd 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace A: Co Ltd 
Asstt, J Thomas & Co Pte Ltd 

Engr, International Combustion (India) Pte Ltd . . 
Asst, Shalirnar Paint Colour & Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Turner, Morrison & Co Ltd 


Residence or place of 
business. 

Chartered Bank 

Buildings 

21, Netaji Subhas Road 
24 Chowringhen 
E Rly House 
5 Fairlio Place 
24, (Jhowr in ghee 
2, Metcalfe Stnvet 

7, Koilaghat Street 
22B, Netaji Subash Load 
P-12 Mission Row Extn 
lo, Strand Road 
41 ( Jhowrringhee Rd 
2tt Chowriughoe Rd 
21 Ohowringhoo Rd 
12 Rajendra Nath Mu- 
kherjen Rd. 

2 Fairlio Place 
21 Netaji Subhas Road 
lb 1 [are Street 
2,2 B Netaji Subhas Rd 
SO/1, College St 
b Lyons Range 
20-20 India K ' ch;n gc 
Pla.ee 

4 Fairlio Place 
b, Lyons J tango 
lb, 11 are Street 
f>7P Free School St 
New secret anal 

I b 1 la l*e St/l*oet 
10 Rly House 
20, Park Street. 

24, Chowrmghce 


1, Jlarish Mukh(‘rji Road 

D-2, Clive Puddings 
102, 1 Amherst Street 
22, Netaji Subhas Road 

2. Koilaghat Street 
41 ( Jhowringhoe Rd 
b, Lyons Range 

2, Netaji Subhas Road 
Sb-I, College Street 
Sb- 1 , Colli go St reef. 

4 ( Min e Row 
4, Lyons Range 
P-12 Mission Row Extn 
14, Brabourne Road 
2 Fairlio Place 
b Lyons Range 
JO Rly House 
b.2, Netaji Subhas Road 
J b, St rand ltoad 
20, Park Street 
Chartered Pant Puddings 
4 Chnwriiighoo Square 
27, ( Jhow rmghco 

1 b 1 la, re St root 
24, Harrison Head 
lb St rand How 

2 Kairlio Place 
4, Olive Row 

21 Netaji Subhas Road 
2J Dalhousie Square 
JO Netaji Subhas Road 
Chartered Bank Puddings 
2 (’live How 
4 Pank.sliaJI St reel 
IS Mission How 
1()1 , Park Street 
6, Lyons Range 
6 Lyons Range 



28 


Names. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 

business. > 


Lonsdale, Norman . . Asstt, James Warren & Co Ltd 

Longmate B, . • Asst, Allahabad Bank Ltd 

Loughram, Cyril . . Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 

Lour, David Graham . . Sub-Acctt, The Chartered Bank 

Lov<‘, B. L. J. . . Time Table Officer, E Rly 

Louis, Paokiam Maria . . Asstt, Agency Dopt, Bird & Hoilgors 

Ltinib, L. C. . . Sub Editor, The Statesman Ltd 


31 Chowringhee r vn;u i 

3 Srand Road 

4 Bankshall Street 

4 Netaji Subluis K 0;it i 
E Rly House 
Chartered Bank BuiJ ( ]j n) 
4 Chowringhee S<[u are 


M 


Majuinder, Macintosh Donald 
Macknjte Iver Campbell 
Madan, J. E. 

Miwlluik, Inder, BA 
Maj i , N. N. 

Mahadevam, V. K. G. P, BA 


Asstt, James Final ys & Co Ltd 
Director. Carrit & Morn & Co Private Ltd 
Asstt, 1 C 1 (India) Pte Ltd 
Manager, Steel Bros &- Co Ltd 
Dist Com Supdt, E Rly 
„Ch Acctt, State Bank of India 


Mahajan, Av inash Chandra 


Dist Sales Manager, Air India International 


Mahajan, O P 
Maithal. V. P. 

Ma ti, A jit Kumar, ma 


Maiti, Ashutosli 
Maitv, Gostlia Boliari, ma 
M aitra, A. K. 


Mailra, Amar Kumar 
Maitra, Atulendra Nath, boom (C 
Maitra, A. 0., Btech 


Maitra, Bikash 

Maitra, Dhirendra Kr. ma, bt 
Maitra, Ganganarayaw, ma 
Maitra, N C 

Maitra, Sitansu, ma, D Phil 
Maitra, S. K. 

Majumdar, Amal Kanti ma bl . 
Majumdar, Amal Kumar, msc . 
Majumdar, Anil Ranjan 
Majumdar, B 

Majumdar, Benu Bhusan, ma, bb 
Majumdar, B 0 
Majumdar Debabrafa, BME 


Asstt Op Supdt, E Rly 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 

Lecturer Geenka College of Commerce & Businas 
Admn 

Secy, Walford Transport & Co 
Prot, Vidyasagar College 

Asstt Sales Manager, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Asstt, Tata Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Struct- Engr, Karam Chand Thapar & Co Lid 
Sale Room, Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 
Professor, City College (Com Dept) 

Professor, City College (Com Dopt.) 

Dy Sales Manager, India Iron & Steel Co 

Professor, Bangabasi College 

Asstt, I C 1 (India) Pte Ltd 

Asstt, Acctt Dept Bird & Co, Ltd 

Lecturer, Presidency College 

Acctt, Lipton Ltd 

Asstt, Kilburn & Co Pte Ltd 

Asstt Secy, Cal Stock Exchange Assn Ltd 

Asstt Com Supdt, E Rly 

Leotrer, Cal Technical School 


Majumdar, d n 

Majumdar, Harondra Kumar, bsc, 
BMJS 

Majumdar, Indu Bhusan, be, ce 
Majumdar, J 0 
Majuinder, Joy Narayan 
Majumder, K. L. 

Majuinder, M. 

Majumdar, M. K. 

Majumder, N. BSC(Met) 
Majumder, N. N., MA 
Majumdar, Ni ranjan 
Mazumdar, Nirmal Kanti, ma 
M ajumder, P. C. 

Majumder, Prasanta Kumar 
Majumder, Promode Charan, MSC 
Majumder, Pulin Bebari 
Mazumdar, Rabindra Nath, MA . . 
Majumder, Kadhabiuode, MA 
Majumder, Satyendra Kumar 
Majumdar, Subimal Kumar, ma . . 

Majumder, S. M. 

Makhijaei, Lalchand Gulabrai, 
BSe, AMCT 

Mazumdar, Sudhindra Kr, boom, 
ca, IIB 

Majumder, Suhrid Ch, 

Majumdar Su jit . MCom 
Mazumdar, Tapas, ma, phd (Lond) 
Malaviya, M. P., MA, LLB 
Malhan, R. C. 

Malkani, T M 
Malik, Aahok 
Mullic 1 ^ A. N. 


Administrative, Guest Keen Williams Ltd 
Insp of Factories 

Asstt. Engr Calcutta Improvement Trust 
Asstt Controller of Stores 
Jr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 
Asstt-, Kilburn & Co Lid 
Administration, Gest. Keen Williams Ltd 
Dy Com Nypdt, E Rly 
Production Deptt, lhdian Aluminium Co Ltd 
Controller of Imports & Exports 
Asst t Editor, Statesman 
Asstt Prof, Presidency College 
Asstt, Kilburn Co Ltd 

Chief Traffic? Office, Calcutta Tramways Co Ltd 
Prof, Bangabasi College* 

Shipping Asstt, Brooke Bond “ndia Pie Ltd 
Lecturer, Maulana Azad College 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Structural Drawing Office, Jessop & Co Ltd 
Auditor, Development of Industries (India) Private 
Ltd 

Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Sales Mannger W H Hart* n & Co Ltd 

Staff Officer Chartered Bank 

Asstt, Bird & Co 
Prof City College (C< m) 

Asstt Prof, Presidency College 

Asstt, Personal Sept, Bird & Co 

Asstt, I C I (India) Pte Ltd 

Ch Engr, Port Commissioners 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 

Merdantile Asstt, Mackinotn Mackenzie & Co 


2 Netaji Sublms p ( , u j 

0. Mission R< av 

34 Chowringhee 
Gillandcr House 

3 Koilaghat Street 

14 India Exclaim. 
Place 

4 Diilhou.sio Sf.iiar 
East 

E Rly House 
4 Bankshall Street 
2M) Bo bazar .Sinh 


71, Park Strum 
31), Sankar Chose Lain* 

1 2 Mission Row 
1 2 M ission Low 

23 B, Netaji Sublias Uo«a 
2 f» Briiboiirne Poud 

2 Metcalfe St i eet 
13, Mirzapur Street 
1 3, Mirzapm Sheet 
12, Mission Row 
25/1 , Soott Lane 
34 Chowringhee 
Chartered Bank Huildinp 
Sb-1, College St red 

0, Weste r n Street 

2, Fairlie Plan' 

7, Lyons Range 

3, Koilaghat. Street 
HO Sure .dhj Nat 

Bauer ji I load 
4 1 , Chowringhee 

1, Hastings Street 


10, Neta ji Sublias Roal 
Eastern I My House 
4 Kairlei Plan* 

2 Fairlie Place 1 

41 ( JJiow ringhec 1 C * uid 

3 Koilaghat Street 
31 Chowi inghee Ibwd 

4 Esplanade Last 
4 Chow ringliee S<| 

80-1 College Street 
2 Fairlie Place 
P-4 Mission lb w 


25/1 Scot italic 
2 Metealle Select 
8, Wellesley Street 
30 Sankar Chose U"' ' 
«3 Netaji Siihhas K u ‘ 
135 Prinsep St. 




Names. 


29 

Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


Malli^k, Bomkesh, BSC, AS, AA, 

aca 

Mallik. Pasupati, ma 

J. !*•> MA 

Maffick, Krishnagopal 

Maffick, Prosanta Kumar, BOOM 


CA 

Miilli<‘k, R. N. 

Maffick, Rabindra Nath, bmf 
M affick, Sudhan.su Kr 


Prof, City College (Evening) 

Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Controller of Imports & Exprts 
Sub Editor, Statesman 
Asstt, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 

Asstt Aect-tf, Officer, A (1 Bengal 
Inspector of Factories W Bengal 
Asstt, Octav ius Steel & Co Ltd 


Mall ink, Sudhindra Ch, ACA 
Malhek, Suhrid Kumar Dey 
Manalar, M P 
Maim, William Henry 
Manuel, J . K. 

Malison, Donald 
Mansukhani, T J, BE 
Mara w ala, S, H., CAT IB 
Marsh, A. H. 

Marlin C. J. 

Massie Taylor Hugh 
Marl in, (J. A. 

Master, N F 

Mathur, Dedamea Nath 
Matlmr. K. B. 

Matlmswami. Narayanswami, BA 
Mat nir Rahman, MSC 
Matthfti, Ravi John 
Mat lieu, Philip K. 

Mathrani, R. M. 

Manlik, It S., MSC" . . 

Maulik. Rishindra 
Mauhk, Tapendra Nath, MSe 
Maxwell, John Edward 
Mayhew, Arthur James 
McCarthy, Cordon Alexander 
Mr (’ay, J. H. S 
M< Purl is, G. S. A.. 

M (Cowen, Jam (\s 
McRregar, W. I). 

Me ( II I lull oh P. D. 

Mr I ’u l luck, Charles 
McLarein, G H 
Mr lent l N.M. 

yr Moh an A P C 

McDonald, Norman Osmond, aca 

McFee, Frederick 

Medela, A jit Kumar, MSC 1 

Mrhra. Rliolanath, BCOM, ACA 

Melirn Durga Prasad 

Mrlira, Mahendra Dev 

Mdira, B. S. 

Mehra, ttartaj Kishen, ba 


Elec Engr Asstt, G blunders Arbuthnot & Co Ltd . . 
Asst. Secy, Balm or Lawrie & Co Ltd 
A P O, E Rly 

Engr, Babcock &- Wilsoce of (Ind) Ltd 

Jr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 

Secy, Balmer Lawrie & (Jo Ltd 

Asstt, Sales Mangr, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 

Supdt, Central Bak of India Ltd . . 

Advertisement Manafer, Statesman 

Sr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 

Sab* Room Asstt , Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 

Asstt Supdt, Bengal Chamber of Commerce 

Partner, S R Batliboi & Co 

Asst , James Warren & Co Ltd 

Dv (’h Personnel Officer, E lily 

A celt. Managerm Standard Vacuum Oil Co 

Prof, City College (Evening) 

Asstt, Macneilj & Barry, Ltd 
Jr Asstt, Gladstone* Lyall & Co Ltd 
Asstt. Kilburn & Co Ltd 
Prof, St Xavier's College 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Loot in Math, St Paul’s College 
Mnthods Aectt, Brook Bond (India) Pte Ltd 
Asst, Engineer Jessop & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Balmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Asstt-, Place Siddons A r Gough Pte Ltd 
Asstt, James Finlays & CozLtd 
Asstt, Bird &, Hedgers 

Asstt Aectt, National & Grindlays Bank Ltd 
Br Aectt, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Axxtt. The Charterec Bank 
Aocountant, Statesman 
Sul) Aectt, The Eastern Bank Ltd 
Ofltg T M IT O Port commissioner 
Asst, Williamson Magor & Co Ltd 
Sub Aectt, The Chartered Bank 
Prof. City College (Evening) 

Engr Asstt, Gil landers Arbuthnot & Co 
Asstt- Agent, Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Aectt, Heatly Gresham Ltd 
I list Conti* of Ntorcsm E Rly 
Asstt, Burmah Oil Co (India Trading) Ltd 


Mehrotra, Sri Narain 
Meht a , (J.R.B, 

Mehta, Jal Rustomjee 
Mehta, Jeewan Singh, Ma 
** ta. K. B.. BA 
? t a - Itahindra NaUi 
Mehta, s. L. 

Mehta. T. X. 

Mynozi^ J v 
S. L. 

*■“««*. K (} 

vT 1 ' A - ACA - aicwa 

Clement, Whoar 
chai«l. Lawrence Bcxon, 
lOxon) 

Si kx As 

1 2|V c o j 

i^Vkp.bcom 

■if' 8 * 


Sr Asstt, Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Asstt, Mamie! 1 & Barry Ltd 
Asstt, Rail is India, Ltd 

Assistant Secretary, Indian Chamber of Commerce 
T)y Manage 8 , Scindia Steam Navigation Co Ltd 
Sale ronun Asstt, Broke Bond India Pte Ltd 
Cal Director, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Asstt , Scott & Sareby 

Br Manager, Cal North, Brooke Bond Ihdia Pic Ltd 

Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 

Asstt, (tunny Export Dept Bird & Co Pte Ltd 

Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 

Supdt Engr. Octavius Steel & Co Ltd 

Managing Director, Dunlop Rubber Co (India) Ltd 

Asstt Officer, Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corpn 
Asst, I 0 I (Pte) Ltd 
Asstt Acctts Officer, E Rly 
Professor, Vidyasagar College 

Section Officer, Tata Iron & Steel Co Agents’ Office 

Controller of Imports and Exports 

Asst, I C I (Pte) Ltd • • 


102/1 Amherest Street 

30, Sankar Ghose Lane 
4 Esplanade* East 
4 ( -howringhce Sej 
B-4 Gillaiular House 

Treasury Buildings 
] , Hastings Street 
14 Old Court House, 
Street 

G blander House 

21, Netaji Subhas Road 

E Rly House 

1 & 3 Brabourne Road 
4 Fairlie Place 

21, Netaji Subhas Road 
0, Church Lane 
33 Netaji Subhas Road 
4 ( -howringhee Sq 
4 Fairlie Place 

2 Metcalte St rect 

0 Netaji Subhas Road 
1-B, Old Post Offict* St 
31 Chowringhee Road 
E Rly House* 

0 Church Lane* 

102/1 Amhcre*st Street 
2, Fairlie Place 
4 Fairlie Place 
2 Fairlie* Place 

30 Park Street 
4 ( 'live Row 

33-1, Amherst Street 

2, Metcalfe Street 

03, Netaji Subhas Rd 
21, Netaji Subhas I toad 
0 Lyons Range* 

2 Nctaji Subhas Road 
Ch stored Bank Buildgs 

31 Chnwringhcc Road 
37 ( 'how ringhee 

4 Hastings St rcet 

4, Chowringhee Sq 

14 Netaji Sul thus Road 

1 5 Si rand Road 
4, Mangoo Lane 

4 Hastings St rent 
J02 I A inheres! Street 
Gilhmeler House* 

14 India Exchange Place 
31 Cliattaranjau Avenue 
E Rly House 
28-29, India Exchange 
Place 

14 India Exchange Place 
2 Fairlie Place 
10, Hare Street 
23B, Netaji Subhas Road 
33 Netaji Subhas Road 
2 Metcalte Street 
4 Bankshall Stre*-ct 
Chargcred Bank Buildings 
2 Melculfe Street 
4 Clive Row 

Chartered Bank Bldgs. 
4, (-live Row 
14 Old Court House St. 
.77B Free School Street. 

31 Dalhoiisic Square** 

34, Chowringhee Rd 
E Rly House. 

39 Sankar Ghose Lane 
23, Netaji Subhas Road 

4 Esplanade East . 

34, Chowringhee Rd 



30 


No. Names. 


Mital, B L 

Mitchel, Alexander Hume 
Mitchell, A 
Mitra, Amn Komar 
Mitra, Ashim Kumar 
Mitra, A C 

Mitra, Achyutananda 
Mitra, A jit 
Mitra, A jit Bhusan 
Mitra, A joy Kumar, BSc, BL 
Mitra, A N 

Mitra A run Kumar, BCOM AC A 
Mitra, Barun Kumar, MSC 
Mitra, Bhabatosli , B( om, CAJ1 B 
Mitra, Buren Kumar 
Mitra, Blmpendra Nath 
Mitra, Bijoy Kumar, MA 
Mitra, Birendra Kumar, Bse, be, 
ce 

Mitra, D, bsc (Eng) 

Mitra, I) K 
Mitra, DN 

Mitra Gunendra Nath, BECE 

Mitra, Haraprosad, ma, i> phil . . 
Mitra, Heinomlra Prosad, ba 
M'ilra, Hanmdra Nath, BE 
Mitra, Harihar, MSe 

Mitra, Hirendra Kumar 
Mitra, lslian (Hi, MA, ACA 
Mitra, Joggnswar 
Mitra, K K, MA 

Mitra, Kama! Kumar 
Mit ra, Lai it Kumar 
Mitra, Manas Kumar, MSe 
Mitra, MaJijndra Nath. MSe 
Mil ra, Manindra Nat h.MSC 
Mitra, Mukul, bee 
Mitra, Pari tosh, MSe 
Mitra, Provat Kumar 
Mitra, Prafulla Kumar, BCOM, 
ACA 

Mitra, Prafulla, ma 
M itra, P K 
Mitra, UK 

Mitra, Ruthindra Kumar 
Mitra, Uamgopal, BSe, AM IE 
Struct 

Mitra, Salil Kumar, use bcom, 
aca, ASA a (Lond). 

Mitra, Samir Kumar 
Mitra, Santosh Nath, BA 
Mitra, Saral Kumar, moom 

Mitra, Saroj Kumar, BCOM 
Mitra, Sisir Kumar 
Mitter, Suhimal 
Mitra. Subimal 
Mitra, Saumendra Nath MSe 
Mitra, Sujit Krishna, MA, 1)SVV 
Mitra, Sunil Chandra, Bcom, AoA 
Mitra, Sun it K . . 

Mitra, Siishil Kumar, BA 
Mittal, Avtar Krishnan 
Modak, Oovin Kanti 
Mondal, Harahallav 
Montgomery, Colin Gordon 
Monte Bello, Konal Louis 
Montogomery, M 
Mogal, K F, BSC 
Mohan, C J (Commdr) 

Mulk, Raj Chhabra, ACA 
Momen, Golam 
Mondal, Haraballav 
Motilal, Bimal Kumar 


Style or o&lling. 


esidenoe or pi*, 
business. 


Offg Asst Consvr, Port Commissioners 

Member, Board of Management, Jessop & Co Ltd . . 

Sub-Aeott, The Chartered Bank 

Assistant, Balmer Lawrie & Co, Ltd 

Asstt, Balmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 

Asst, I (J I (Pte) Ltd 

Engr, Lipton Ltd 

Coach Drawing Olliee, Jessop & Co, Ltd 

Sr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co, Ltd 

Fire Supdt, Norwich Union Fire Insurance Society Ltd 

Asstt- Macneill and Barry Lid 

Accit, Electric Supply Depth Martin Burn, Ltd 

Asstt, Metal Deptt, Martin Burn, Ltd . . 

St; rfl Asstt (hrrtcicd Bai k “f li clia 

Spl Staff, Honkong Si Shanghai Banking Corpn 

Asstt, Bird & Co, Ltd 

Prof, City College (Evening) 

Lecturer, Calcutta Technical School 

Asstt Manuger, Plant Sales l)ivn, English Electric 
Co, Ltd 

Asstt, Martin Burn. Ltd 
Asstt, Indian Iron <fc Steel Co Ltd 
Lecturer, Cal Technical School 

Prof, Presidency College 
Acet-t, Martin & Burn, Ltd 

Ti'sp of Fa(t(<-r<es W Bengal . . 

Asstt. Contro, Stationery, Govt, of India Stationery 
Olliee 

Acet-t., B B & J Construction Co Ltd 
Asstt , Price Waterhouse Peal & Co 
Sul) Acet-t., Reserve Bank of India 
Staff Asstt, State Bank of India 


15, Strand Rd 
63, Netaji Su|,h as p 
4 Netaji Sithh^p 
21, Netaji Suhli^j.' 
21, Netaji Sul, has it 
34, Chowriiigh^ 

9, Weston Sin^t 


63 Netaji Suh| la , i, 
4 Fairlee PJ U( 1 


6 Lions liaiigi‘ 

2 Fairlee Phur. 

12 Mission how. 

12 Mission Low 
4, Netaji Suhl,;t s }* ( ] 
31 Dalhousic t s (|ll , lr 
Chartered Bank Build 
102/1 Ainlicihi Si li ,4 
110, Surendia ^ 
Bancrjee I toad * 
X)-3, ( Jive Building? 


12 Mission Wnw 
12 Mission how. 

1 10, Suren % ^ 

Banerji P< ad 
86/1, College S«i 

12, Mission how 
I IL'Ntn'gs S | [•(•({ 

3, Church Lane 


P-13, Mission lion Fjj 
B4 Gillandn lion.** 
8, Council 7 louse St* 
Queens Mansion, Pa 
Street 


Clenl Mangr, B B & J Construction Co Ltd . . P-13, Mission llov Eij 

Prof, City College (Com Dept) . . 13, Surva Sen Sr 

Professor Bangahasi (College . . 25/1, Sc It Lain 

Pr less* r Vidyasag;' i* C‘ liege . . 30 Sant ar Chose Lui 

Lecturer, Moulana Azad (College . . S Wcllesle\ Mierf 

Hd of Elect Dept, Cal Tech School . . 110, S N BanerjeePd 

Oh Acett, Acct-t.n Deptt, Corpn of Calcutta . . 6, S N Liiiiri )i Itond 

Sr Supvr, National & Griudlays Bank, Ltd . . 31 ( how MiiL'Iiri lit 

Asstt, Price Waterhouse Peal Si Co . . . . B4 Gillandei Hmise. 


Prof, Banga has i College .. 10 Seotl Lane- 

Asstt, Kilhurn Si Co Ltd . . . . . . 2 Fairlee I ‘hire. 

Asstt, 1 C I (India) Pte, Ltd .. .. 34 Chow made v. 

Sr Asstt, Gladstone* Lyall & Co Ltd . . 4, Fairlie Plan' 

Engr, Heatly & Grasham Ltd . . 31, (hittaranjan hen 

Acctt, C E S C, Ltd . . Victoria IIuu»e f 


Asstt-, James Finlays Si. Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Allahabad Bank, Ltd 

Lecturer, Goenka (College of commerce of Business 
Administar tion 
Asstt, Bank of (hina 
Prof, Sanskrit College 
Supervisor, Rallis India, Ltd 

Sr Office Asstt Acctg Imperial Tobacco Co of India 

Prof, Bangabasi College 

Asstt Labour Officer, Labour Commissioner 

Asstt Acctt, Brooke Bond India, Ltd 

Asst t, Indian Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 

Asstt Mgr, Scindia Steam Navigation Co, Ltd 

Soc3', B B & J Construction Co Ltd 

Loot, Presidency Col lege* 

Asstt, Shawwallace & Co, Ltd 
Sr Executive, Balmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
AsHtt, James Finlays & Co, Ltd 
Asst-, Macneill & Barry 
Sr Sec Officer, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 
Dy Conservator, D C, Port Commissioners 
Chief Financial Acctt-., Dunlop Rubber Co(India) Lt* 
Asstt, Carri t & Moran & Co Private Ltd 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Lecturer, Sanskrit College 


•taji tSuhhn^ ll<>< 
alia E\riiiiiuri’J 
Ilow bazar Sire 

-rabouriie U* »a<l- 
krit Collegi* 
[arc St reel. 

howringbee L" 

, Scott Law* 

• Secretariat 
[cl carp Street- 
Mission h >( »"* 

Ictaji * uhl,A> t 
Mission h’°" r 
’('l.llcfM' Slnr ! 

uiksl.-tJI Strecl 

sTot.iji Su |lha ^ 
■tnji 

tin'll-' Oil-'*' ^ 

Net ;ji Sul-1">' 

sass* 

trit College 



Names. 


Morgan, Geoffrey 
Morris, D E 
Morris, G C 
Morrison, KH 
Morris, John 
Morriss, IF 
Moore, 1> T 

Momlgill, M M, BSC (Cliem Engg) 
Moult, G 

Moire Fraeis Haugli 
M ukherjee, A, MA 
M ukherjee, A K 

Muklierji, Acliintya Kumar (Dr) 
MSc, MB, DPhil (Cal) 

Muklierjee, Ajit Kumar, BA 
Muklierjee, A K, MA 
Muklierji, Amal Kumar, ma, bsc, 
BCom 

Muklierjee, Amal Kumar, MSC . . 
Muklierjee, Amal Krishna, Mse . . 
M ukherjee, Ambuj Kumar 
Muklierjee, Amiya Gopal, mso 
M uklierjee, Anil Kumar 
Mi'klietjea, Anil Chandra. 
Muklierjee, Anil Kumar, BSC, 

AMI E 

Mukheijee, A N 
Muklierjee, Arun Kumar, ma 
n rin r. 

Muklierjee, Arun Ch 
Miik herjee, Ashim. Kumar 
Mul.herji, Asis Kumar, ma 
M ukluu jue, A N 
Muklii'i jee, Banin Kumar 
Mulhrrjre, Rejoy Kumar 
Muklierjee, B iijlA 
Muklierjee, Reiioy Klmsan, ma . . 
M ukherjee, Benny Bhusan, MSe . . 
Muklierjee, Bholanath 
Muklierji, Biinal Charan, ma, asaa 
Muklierji, Binmlendra Kail la, 

BCom (Cal) 

Muklierjee, Del) Kumar, MKC 
Muklierjee I ) ( i 
Muklierji, Dev Kumar 
Muklierjee, Dharaui Mohau, ma 
Muklierjee, DhirendraMohan, MSI* 
Muklierjee, Dhirendra Nath, BCom 
IT A’ 

Mukhei jee, Dilip Kr, MSC 
Muklierji, Dwijendra, Nath, MCom 
Mukherjee, Dr Govinda Gopal, 
MA., I) Phil 

Muklierji, Gourdas, msc (All) 
Muklierjee, H 

Muklierjee, J Lira prasad, MA 
Muklierjee*, UK 
Muklierji , liaridas, ma 
Muklierjee, Harihar, 1V1A 
Muklierji, Harish Cliandrn, bk, 

ri ‘k KIUOS, AMlK 

dukhe.rji, llari Shanker, bso, a & a 
(rkistie), London 
Muklierjee, Heinen, MSe 
^ukhrrjeo, TIimaugshu, BA 
'Ukherjee, Hitendranath, mso . . 
*Uukherj<*e, Kaliprosad 
■'Hildierjee, Jyotirmoy, MSc 

K N, BA 

\i U , v ! u,r J l ‘e, Kanailal, MSc 
jHiklierjee, Kahindra Ch, B Com 

Muklierji, Keshab Chandra, ma 

^(Com) 06 ’ Kishori Mohon, MA 


31 


Style or calling. 


Asstt, Williamson Magor & Co, Ltd 
Asstt Acett, Mercantile Bank, Ltd 
Sub-Aeett, Mercantile Bank, Lid 
Asst, Macneill & Barry 
Asstt, Thomas Dull’ & Co (Iiul) Ptd, Ltd 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 

Asstt Acett, National & Grindlays Bank, Ltd (Lloyds 
Branch). 

Production Deptt, Indian Aluminium Co, Ltd 
Area Manager, Imperial Tobacco Co of India, Ltd 
Asst W illiamson Magor & Co Ltd 
Prof, St Xavier's College 
Asstt, op Supdt, E Illy 
Prof, Presidency College 

Asstt Personal Oilieer, Voltas, Ltd 
Dy Dr Pub, Home (Pub) Dept 
Acett, Martin Burn, Ltd 

Lect, Presidency College 
Lecturer, Presidency College 
Asstt Acett., Mackintosh Burn (Pte) Ltd 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Asstt Acett , Port. Commissioners of Calcutta 
Asstt , Octavius Steel Si Co, Ltd 
Dist Kngr, Mains Deptt, C E S C Ltd 

Asstt., I C 1 (India) Pte, Ltd 
Lecturer, Presidency College 

Asstt, Agendas Deptt, Martin Burn, Ltd 

Asstt, L C I (India) Pte, Ltd 

Prof, Bangahasi College 

Asstt , Jardine Henderson 

Wagon Drawing Office, Jessop & Co, Ltd 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co, Ltd 

Controller of imports and Exports 

Professor, Surendra Nath College 

Professor. V T idyasagar College 

Asstt, Stewart. & Lloyds of India Pte Ltd 

Accountant, Calcutta Improvement. Trust. 

Asstt , Tata Iron & Steel Co Ltd 


Lecturer, City College 
APO, Fitly .. 

Assistant, James Finlay & Co, Ltd 
Hd Master, Metropolitan Inst (Main) 

Prof, Bangahasi College 
Chartered Acett. George Bead and Co. 

Lecturer, Moulana Azad College 
Professor, City College (Com Dept) 

Asstt Prof, Sanskrit College 

Professor, St Paul's College 

Asstt , Jaridne Henderson 

Lect, St Pauls Cathedral Mission College 

Asstt., 1C 1 ! (India) Pte, Ltd 

Lecturer, Moulana A/.ad College 

Prof, City College (Evening) 

Chief Valuer, Calcutta Improvement Trust 

Sales Engr, Alfred Herbert (India), Ltd 

Lecturer, Presidency College 
Staff Asstt, State Bank of India 
Prof, St Xavier’s College 
Br Admn Asstt, Hindus! ban Lever Ltd 
Employee’s Relations Manager, Standard Vacuum 
Oil Co 

Asstt, Martin Burn Ltd 
Prof, Cjty College (Evening) 

A^stt, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 

Asstt Seoretary, Bengal National Chamber of Com- 
merce and Industry 
Asstt, Price, Waterhouse Peat & Co 


Residence or place of 
l usiness. 

4 Mangoe Lane. 

8 Netaji Subhas Hoad. 

8 Netaji Subhas Road. 

2, Fairlic Place 
!( Clive Row . 

4, (.live Row 
29 Netaji Subhas Road. 

21 Chowringhee Road. 

27 Chowringhee. 

4, Mangoe Lane 
20 Park Street-. 

E Rly House. 

86- 1 , College Street 

8 Netaji Subhas R oad 
Writers' Buildings. 

12, Mission Row 

86/1 College St reel . 

86- 1 , ( College Street 
8, Netaji Subhas Road 
20, San bar Chose Lane 
If) St rand Road. 

14 Old Court House St. 
Victoria House. 

24 Chowringhee. 

86-1, College Street 

12 Mission Row. 

24 ( -how ringhro. 

2f>/ 1 , Scott Lano 
4 ('live* Row . 

62 Netaji Subhas Road. 
4 Bankshall Street. 

4 Esplanade East. 

24, Harrison Road 
20, Sankar G.'.ose Lane 
41 . Chowringhee R 
10, Netaji Subhas Road 
22-B, Netaji Subhas Jld 

102/1 Amherst Street. 

E Rly House. 

2, Netaji Subhas Roaa 

29, Sankar Chose Lint 
25/ 1 Scott, Lane. 

Avenue House Cfow- 

ringee S(j. 

8 Wellesley Street. 

12, Mil za pore Street 
Sanskrit College 

33-1, Amherst Street 
4 C Jive Row . 

33/1 Amherst Street. 
34Chow ringliee. 

8, Wellesley Street 
102/1 Amherst Street. 

10, Netaji Subhas Road 

13-3, Strand Road 

86/ J, College Street. 

3 St rand Road 

30, Park St 

1 & 3 Bra bourne Road 
6 Church Lane 

12 Mission Row 
102/1 Amherst Street 
23B Netaji Subhas Road 

P-11, Mission Row Extn 

B4 Giilander House 



No. 


$2 


Namfts. 


Style or eaUStig. 


Residence or plac^ Q 
business. 


Mukherjee, Krishna Das, BA 
Mukherjee, Krishna Kumar 
Mukherjee, K.K.M,eom LLB. 
Mukherjee, Muni 
Mukherjee, N., B A 
Mukherjee, Nilambar, BA, BL . . 
Mukherjoe, Narayan Ch. MA 
Mukherjee, N K 
Mukherjee, P K 
Mukherjee. P N, BL 
Mukherjee, PK 

Mukherji, Prabhat Kumar, ma,pkb 
Mukherjee, Promodejanjan 
Mukherjee, Pmtap Ch, BSe 
Mukherjee, Prasun 
Mukherji, Pratul Chandra, msc . . 
Mukherjee, Priva Lai, AM IE (Ind) 
Mukherjee, P 1> 

Mukherjee, Rabindrn Nath 
Mukherjee, Ratul Kumar, MSe 
CA (Scot) 

Mukherjee, R N 

Mukherj(M\ Bam Chandra, MA . . 

Mukherjoe, Robin 

Mukherjee, S K 

Mukherjoe, 8 N 

Mukherjee, S K 

Mukherjee, Naehindrn Prosnd. boom 
Mukherji. Sailendra M, mho 
MukherjtH', Sadananda 
Mukherjoe, Salil Kumar 
Mukherjee, Santanu 
Mukherji, Santosh Kumar, MA . . 
Mukherjoe, Santosli K, msc 
Mukherjee, 8 R, MA, DSW 
Mukherji, Santilal, ma 
Mookherjee, 8. 8. 

Mukherjee, Satindra Kumar, MA, 
PhD 

Mukherji, Satimohan, ma 
M ukherjee, Shirendra Nath, MA 
MukherjtH', Shyama Prosad, MSe 
Mil khcrjee , 8 1 lyamasat i kar , it m k 
M ukherjee, Sou rendra Nath, BEL 
BME 

Mukherjee. Stibimal, BA 

Mukherji, Sulxxlh Chandra, rk, ck 
Mukherji, Sudhangsu Kr, msc, 
d ph in 

Mukherjee, Sujoy. MA 
Mukherji, Sukumar, bsc 

Mukherjee, Sukumar, ma, hhb . . 
Mukherji, Suprokash, BA 
Muklierjee, Sunil K 
Mukherjee. Suniti Kumar, B Com 
Mukherjee, T C 
Mukherji, Tara pada ma 
Mukherjee, Tarapada, BCom, CA 

11B 

Mukherjee, Tarun Kumar, BSc, 
BE (Cal.). 

Mukherji, Trambak Prasad, ba, 

OAIIB 

Mukherji, Visvapriya, msc 
Mullanferoze, F C, D Com, LCO . . 
Munshi, Sunil Kumar, ma 
Munsif. D R, BSe (Eoom) (Loud) 
Munnuria, Ram Copal 
Murray, John Edwin 
Murthy, B K, MSe (Pat) 

Murthy, G V S K 

Murty, P B K 
Murti, V G K 

Murtough Henkey Albert 
Mustaphy, Suryya Kumar BSc . . 


Asstt Acctt, C E S C Ltd 

Dept Supdt, The Eastern Bank Ltd 

Asstt, Acctt. R. B. of India 

Asstt, Burn & Co, Ltd 

Dy. Asstt. Iron & Steel Controller 

Asstt i, Bengal Chamber of Commerce 

Prof, City College 

Asstt , Mart in Burn Ltd 

Asstt, Shalimar Paint, Colour & Varnish Co, Ltd . . 

Ch ( Jashier, Martin Burn Ltd 

Asstt Elec Engr, E Railway 

Professor, Vidvasagar College 

Station Acctt," Air India International 

Trail io Supdt, Lt Rly Martin Burn Ltd 

Asstt, Martin Burn Ltd 

Prof, Presidency College 

Sab's Engr, Balmer Lawrie A Co, Ltd 

|)ist Com Supdt, E Rly 

Struct u ral Drawing Otlice, Jessop A Co, Ltd 
Asstt. Price Water Rouse Peat A Co. 

Asstt, Corn Supdt, E Rly 

Loot, Ooenka College of Com A Business Admn 

Asst t . Martin Burn Ltd 

Asstt Acctts Officer, E Railway 

Asstt Aects Officer 

Asstt, Kilburn & Co, Ltd 

Staff Asst t, State Bank (Part Street Branch) 

Asstt Prof, Presidency College 

Asstt, Minerals Dept, Bird A Co, Pte Ltd 

Asstt. Indian Iron A Steel Co, Ltd 

Asstt, Rallis India Ltd 

Dy. Sc *ey., Orient Longmans Pte. Ltd. 

Prof, City College (Com) 

Asstt Labour Commissioner, West Bengal 
Professor, City College* (Com Dept) 

Asstt ., Turner Morrison A Co., Pte. Ltd. 

Lent, St Pauls Cathedral Mission College 

Prof, Bangabasi College 

Prof St Xavier's College 

Leeturer. Presidency College 

lnsp of Boilers, Dicte of Boilers 

Engr, Babcock A Wilcox of India, Ltd 

Regnal National Savings Officer, National Savings 
Organisation 

Asstt Engr, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
Prof, Surendra Nath College 

Loot , Goenka College of (bin A Business Admn 
Marine Underwriter, London & Lancashire Insc Co, 
Ltd 

Professor, Vidyasagar College 
Sub Acctt, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Martin Bum 
Sub- Acctt, Chartered Bank 
Asstt, Kilburn & Co, Ltd 
Professor, Presidency College 
Sub-Acctt, R B of India 

Asstt. Mains Engr.C. E.S.C.Ltd 

Sub- Accountant. Reserve Bank of India 

Professor, Scottish Church College 
Officer, Central Bank of India Ltd 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Prof, St Xavier’s College 
Asstt, *1 allies Finlay A Co, Ltd 

Asstt., Bird A Heilgers . . • • • • 

Sales Development Engr, Indian Allummium Co, Ltd 
Chairman A Jt Sales Manager, Brooke Bond 
(India), Ltd 

DiBt Manager, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd . . 

Asstt, Macneill A Barry Ltd 

Asstt. Hoare Miller A Co. Ltd. . . 

Accountant Carritt Moran A Co. Pte* Ltd. • • 


Victoria House 
14 Netaji Subhas R 0a 
8, Council House St re , 
12 Mission Roan 
33, Netaji Subhas 
6 Netaji Subhas R< m( 
102/1, Amherst St 
12 Mission Row 
6 Lyons Range 
12 Mission Row 
E Rly House 
33, Sank&r Chose La n 
4 Dalhousie Square E 
12 Mission Row 
12 Mission Row 
86-1, College Street 
21 Netaji Subhas \U K 
3 Kailaghat Street 
63 Netaji Subhas Km 
B4, Gil lander House. 

E Rly H ouse 
210 Bow Bazar St roc 
12 Mission Row 
E Rly House 
Eastern Railway Horn 
2 Fairlie Place 
Queens Mansion 
86-1 , College Street, 
(’bartered Bank R]d<ri 
12 Mission Row 
16 Hare Street 
17, Chittaranjfin Aven 
13, Mirzupur Street 
1 Hastings Street 
13, Mirzapore Street 
6, Lyons Range. 

33/1 AmluTst Street 

25/ 1 , Scott Lane 
30 Park Street 
8(5/1, College Street 
1 , Hastings St 
1 A 3 Braboume Uo;u 


Hindusthan Building 

10, Netaji Subhas Hot 
24, Harrison Road 

210 Bow Bazar Sim* 

2, Fairlie Place 

39, Shankar GIkwc h 
8, Council 
12, Mission Row 
4 Netaji Huhims Rum 
2 Fairlie Place 
86-1, College Street 
8 Council House Sin 


Victoria House. 

8, Council House Stre 


,, Cornwall^ Sq 
dsay Street 
hankar Ghose 
,rk Street 
taji SiiHlias R<’» 

-id Bank Boil* 



Names . 


N 


Nag, AC 

Nag, Chandra Kumar, Mcom 
Nag Chabindralal, MA 
Nag, D. C. 

Nag, Hemendu Bikash, ba 
N ag Khagendra Chandra 
Nag, Samarendra 
Nag, Sunil Ch., MA, B Corn 


Naharwar, P P 
Nair, A H V 
Nair, K R 

Naismith, D J l 

Nalkur, NKN 
Nair, Rairoth K 


Nanda, P C, BA 
Nanda, Dilip Kumar, M Sc 
Nandi, Dincndra Kumar 
Nadliam, IV 

Nandi, G. C. 

Nandi, Heramba Kumar 
Nandi, Mathurendra, ma 
N andi Majumder, Arun Chandra, ha 
Nandi, Rabindra Nath, me 


Nandi, S K, MSc 
Nandi, Subir 

Nandi Sudhir Kr., M A,l) Phil . . 
Nandi, Sukhomoy, msc 
Narsingham, S 

Na rasiinhan, Sekharipweam 
Hnhramanium, MA, FC11. 
Narasinuhan, K. 

Narasinham, K. I. 

N a ray an Ram 
Nani van, S S ,BSc 
N a ray an, G A 
Nuriclvala, PM 

Nanelvala, P M, BA (Hons), LLB, 
FCA, FSAA (Loud) 

Nat a raj an, ({opal Krishna 
Xatarajan, J 
Xatarajari, K 
Natesan, Subramania 
Nath, HK 
Nathan, John Lewis 
Nat hen S V It, GDA 
NVamo, I)A 
Nathani, S H 

Noman i, Banwarilal, Boom, ACA 

Notlo, P I, ma 

Now soil, A P 

Nioholls Peter Bras ted 

Nioholls, R. J. G. 

N isrh(‘l Chaman Lai 
Nilakantan, P R, BSc, ACA 
Nij.ps, V C 

Niomillohit K, BCom, ACA 
Nivogi, Preman jan, bsc, Boom 
^|y () gi, Prithwis Chandra, ma 
N ing! , 8 P bsc, (Eng) bsc, (Col) . . 
Noble, John Andrew McBoath 
^ool, Clarenoe William 
Nowaz Kadcr, BA, DSW 


n, B, i cn - N A, MA 

°so, s. M. 

0za ’ Bh arat Xanta,, bs< 

n , (USA). 

0 M ay , h. H. 

( John H. 

Uv erton, CGW 


S3 


Style or calling. 


Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 
Professor, Suren dra Nath College 
Lect, City College 
Asstt., Supdt. (Telegraphs) 

Asstt, Iron & Steel Control 
Asstt Acctt, C E S O Ltd 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 

Asstt. Sr. Officer, Life Insurance Corpn. of India 
Unit Oriental Govt. Security 
Asstt, J Thomas & Co, Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Cant Moran & Co Pte Ltd 
Asstt, I C I (Pte) Ltd 
Asstt, J Thomas & Co, Pte Ltd 
Asstt, I C I (India) Pto Ltd 

Sales Asstt, Associated Electrical Industries (Ind) 
Pte Ltd. 

Dy Chief Controller of Imprts and Exports 
Prof, Surendra Nath College 
Mech Drawing Office, Jessup & Co, Ltd 
Asstt Branch Manager, Calcutta North, Brooke 
Bond India Pte Ltd. 

Asstt., The Indian Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. 

Supervisor, Rallis India Ltd 
Prof, City College 
Asstt Audit Officer, Eastern Rly 
Lecturer, Cal Technical School 

Demonstrator, St Xaviers College 

Structural Drawing Office, Jessup & Co, Ltd 

Lecturer, Maulaua Azad College 

Prof, City College 

Traffic Asst. Macneill & Barry 

Asstt. Br. Mngr., Northern Assurance Co. Ltd. 

Personal Officer, E. lily. 

Asst, Bird & Hoilgors 
Acetts Dept, Jessop <fe Co, Ltd 

Production Manager, Indian Alluminium Co, Ltd . . 
Sr Acctt, India Genl Navigation & Rly Co, Ltd 
Partner, S R Batliboi & Co Ltd 
Prof, St Xaviers College 

Acctt, Octavius Steel & Co, Ltd 

Asstt, 1 C I (India) Pte Ltd 

Asstt Acctt, National & Grindlays Bank Ltd 

Accountant, C E S C, Ltd 

Asstt Aects Office*!*, A G Bengal 

Asst, Bird & Hoilgors 

Engr Asstt, Gillaiulers Arbuthnot & Co, Ltd 

Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 

Asstt., Jardine Henderson Ltd 

Secy, Air Condtg. Pte Ltd 

Prof, St Xavier's College 

Store’s Buyer, Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 

Managing Director, Williamson Magor & Co, Ltd 

Asstt. Meckinon Mackcngio & Co. Ltd. 

Br Sales Mangr, Hinelusthan Lever Ltd 

Secy &. Ch Acctt, Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 

Asstt, J C 1 (India.) Pte* Ltd 

Asstt, Price Waterhouse* Peat & Co 

Partner, Lovelock <fe Lowes 

Prof Bangabasi College 

Asst, Martin Burn 

Asstt. Jardine Henderson, Ltd 

Asst Mains Engr, C E S C Ltd 

Dy Labour Commissioner, W B 


Prof, St Xavier College 
Asstt. Contr. of Stores, E. Rly 
Chief Engr, Air Condtng Pte Ltd 

Supdt. Engr., British India Steam Navigation Co Ltd 

Asst, Bird & Heilgers 

Manager, Elec, Furnace Div Pte Ltd 


Residence or plaoe of 
business. 


12 Mission Row 
24/2, Harrison Road 
102/1 Amherst Street 
E. Rly. House. 

33, Netaji Subhas Rd 

Victoria House 

4 Clive Row 

2 Clive Row. 

8 Mission Row 
0 Mission Row 

34, Chowringheo 
8 Mission Row 
34 Chowringheo 

13 Rujendra Nath 
Mukherjec Road 

4 Esplanade* East. 

24/2, Harrison Road. 

03 Netaji Subhas Road 

2 Metcalfe Street 

12, Mission Row. 

It) Han* Street 
102/1, Amherst Street. 

10 St rand Road 
110, Surendra Nath 
Bauer jee Road 

30 Park Street 

03 Netaji Subl i as Road 
8, Wellesley Street. 

120-1, Amherst Street 
2, Fair lie Place 

7, Hare St reet . 

E. Rly .House. 

(/bartered Bank Bldgs- 

03 Netaji Subhas Road 

31 Coworinghoe Road 
4, Fairlie Place 

IB, Old Post Office St 
30 Park Street 

14 Ol Cdourt House St 
34 ( -ho wringl ice 

0 ( ’hureh Lane 
Victoria House 
Treasury Buildings 
Chartered Bank Bldgs. 
Gil hinder House 

4 ( ’live Row 
4 Clive Row 

E2, Gillander House 
30, Park St 
2 Metcalfe Street 
4 Mangoe Lane 
10, Strand Road. 

1 & 3 Brabournc Road 

2 Metcalfe Street 
34 Chow rmgliee 
B4 Gillander House 
4, Lyons Range 

2~> j Scott Lane 
12, Mission Row 
4, Clive Row 
Victoria House 
1 Hast ings Street 


30 Park Street 
E. Rly. House 
E2, Gillander House 

16, Strand Road. 
Chartered Bank Bldgs. 
13 Rajendra Nath 
Mukherjce Road 



No. 


34 


Names. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or pl aoe Q 
business. 


P 

Pai, K J 
Pai, S A 

Pain, Jyotsna Kumar, msc, ht . . 

Pain, Pulin Behari 

Painter, B G 

Pal, Anin Kumar, MSC 

Pal, G C 

Pal, Gopal Oh., MS© 

Pal, llaranulh, MA . . 

Pal, .Jatindra Mohan 

Pal, Khagondra Oh, ma 
Pal, Krishna Chandra, BA 
Pal, Labanya Ranjan, ije,amijc 
(Ltd) 

Pal, Muraridhar, msc 
Pal, P. K., BA (( -antah) 

Pal, Basanta Kumar, MA 
Pal, Dr Ni ranjan, msc, lU'iiiL 
Pal, S 0 

Pal ( Miow dhur\ , K N 
Pa lit, I. K., BEE 
Paid , Prohlial Kumai.MA 
Pal it, It K, msc 
Pa.lit, Sushi I Kumar, BIS 10 
Pande, Bankcy Behari, MA 
Pande, Kheyali Itam, BA 
Pandey, Narmada Prasad 

Pandit, Madanlal, MA 

Pandit , B N 

Pandit, Wasudeo Bamehandra, 

BA, UiB 

Pandya, Jagdixh Prosad 

Punk hurst , V K 

Pardiwalla, S. B., MA 

Parik, Shi\ K umar 

Parish, P. K. O. W., (). B. E. . . 

Parekh, llarish Maia klal 

Parckh, V. V. 

Parthasarath y, KB 
Patel, 1» Rambhai 
Patel, 0 G. 

Pal, N J 
Patel, D B 
Pathak, S K 
Pat term >n, .1 V J 
Pattison, AT 
Patterson, John 
Patra, Gopal Cli, M ABT 
Pauli, E J 
Pearson, A II 
Pearson, D N 
Pearson, II O (Cap! ) 

Pearson, II N 

Papys, Peter Andrew Leslie 
Penefat her, K H J 

Pereira, A. L., DFii (Bond) 
NMIKE. 

Pereira, R W 
Peieira, 1 )ouglas Charles 
Pereira, Lawrence, MA 
Peters. .1 L 

Petlygrow, Clarence Reginald 

Pew, Bertram, MA 

Philip, Modal© Chacko. bsc (Eng) 

ACGl 

Phillip, George 
Pil Kington, David Charles 
Bethune, OBE. 

Phillips, P. E. 

Pillai, Krishna Kumar 
Pillai, P N K, BA, bl 
Pike, J G R 
Pinto, F X 


Asstt, I C I (India) Pte, Ltd 
Asstt, I 0 I (India) Pte, Ltd 
Professor, St Paul’s College 
Sales Asstt, Martin Burn, Ltd 
Acctt, Gcstetner Duplicator*! Pte, Ltd 
Prof, City ('allege (Evening) 

Asstt,] Cl (India) Pte, Ltd 
Asstt. Prof. Presidency, College 
Lett, Presidency College 

Asstt, Acctt, Assoc iated Electrical Industries (Tnd) 
Private, Ltd. 

Asstt Prof, Maulana Azad College 
Asstt, Audit OfliccT, Eastern Rly 
Lecturer, Cal Technical School 

Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Asstt. Secretariat Deptt Indian Aluminium Co. Ltd. 
Prof. City College 1 (Evening) 

Lecturer, Maulana Azad College 
Asstt, I C 1 (India) Pte, Ltd 
Mercantile Asstt, MacKinnon Mackenzie Co 
Engr., The English Electric Co. Ltd. 

Lect, St Pauls Cathedral Mission College 
Asstt, Sales l)opt, Indian Aluminium Co, Ltd 
Asstt.. Mains Engr., C. E. S. C. Ltd. 

Sec. Officer, Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. 

Asstt, Allahabad Think, II O, Cal 
Asstt. Mangr. Supply Dept. Imperial Tobacco Co of 
(India) Ltd. 

Labour Welfare Officer, Karan Chand Tlmppar & 
Bros Pte Ltd. 

Asstt Controller of Stores, E. Rly 
Sr Asstt, British India General Inse Co, Ltd 

Production Magr, Imperial Tobacco Co of India 
Member, Board - of Management , Jcssop & Co Ltd 
Sub Agent. Central Bank of India 
Acctt, Birin Bros Pte. Ltd . . 

Mg Director, Gil landers Arbuthnot & (Jo Ltd 

Asst t . Octavius Steel & ( o. Ltd 

Mg Dir J, Thomas <Sr Co Pte Ltd 

Asstt, I C 1 (India) Pte*. Ltd 

Asst , Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 

Engr International Combustion (India) Pte Ltd 

Asstt, I C I (India) Pte*. Lid 

Branch Sales Mngr, II inclusthan Lever. Ltd 

Asstt, Turner Monison A Co, Ltd 

Asstt, Jardine Henderson, Ltd 

Audit Manager, Imperial Tobaeeo Co of India, Ltd 
Asst, .lames Finlay & Co 

lnsp. Social Welfare, Education Diete of W Bengal 
Sanitary Engineer, Mackintosh Burn, Ltd 
Asstt See> . Complaints, E Rly 
Asst, James Finlay A Co 

Cargo SiijxlL Brit ish India Steam Navignt ion Co Ltd 
Asstt Signal and Com Engr, E Rly 
Aeett. Harrisons & Gosfield Ltd 

Acctt, National & Grinding s Bank Ltd (Lloyds 
Braneli). 

Regional Engr (North), Mains Deptt CESC 


34 Chowringhee. 

34 Chowringhee*. 
33-1, Amherst Street 
12, Mission Row 
9 A Esplanade* Bum 
102-1 Amherst 
34 Chowringhee 
80/1, College Street. 
SO -1 College St i u i 
13 Rajendra N.uh 
kherjee Road. 

8, Wellesley Street 
10 Strand Road. 
110, Suren dr a ^ 
Bancr ji ltd 
39, Sankar Chose* J iU 
31, Chowringhee p, (l 
102-1 Amherst Si i n 
8, Wellesley Street 
34 Chowringhee 
1 0 Strand Road 
D-3, Gillander 11 mum 
33- i Amlic i si St m i 
31, Chowringhee Bui 
Victoria House. 
23B, Nc*ta|i Suhhas 1 
14, India Evlumgi 1 
37, Cliowriimhee. 

25, Braboume. J to.ol 

E R 1\ House 
Norton Buildings 
Court Jl OHM' ( 

37, Chowringhee 

03 Nets ji Suhlias lh 
33, Net, a |i Su l)Ji;e> h 
S India Km h.ingc I 1 
Gillandei lions© 

14 Old < '(Mil 1 llellM 
8, Mission Row. 

34 Chowi Higher. 

4, Banlvshal! SI 
101, Park St u*el. 

34 ( Miowrmghec 
J -j 3 lira hen i lie le 

() Lyons Rang* 

4 Cli\ <* Bow 
37 Chow rini'hic 

2, Nehiji Suhhas TM 
J Hastings Si u rt 
8, N(‘ta ji Suhhas lb 
E Rly H (tiise. 

2, Nelaji Su'b.is IM 
10 St l and Bead. 

E Rly Iimi* 

0, Church Lane. 

29 Net a j i Nuhhai* lh 

Victoria, lloii. e 


Asstt, Hoarc* Miller & Co, Ltd 
Chief Mechanical Estimator Jcssop & Co Ltd 
Prof St Xavier's Colle ge 
Asstt, J Thomas & Co Pte, Ltd 
Asstt. ,Hoar Miller & Co Ltd 
Professor, St Xavier’s College 

Comm. Engr, Associated Elect! Industries (India), 
Ltd 

Asstt, Bird & Hielgers 
Mg Director, Bird & Co (Pto) Ltd 

Engr., International Construction India P*e, Ltd . . 
Asstt Sales Dept, Imperial Tobacco Co of India 
Personal Manager, Indian Aluminium Co, Ltd 
Mercantile Asstt, Mackinnon Mackenzie Co 
Asstt, Rallis India, Ltd 


f> Fairh Pl«" r 
(>3, Nelaji Suhh.cs b 
30 Pai k Sheet. 

S Mission Bow . 

5, Fair lie Floei*. 

30, Park Sircet 

13 Rajcaulra, N' lth 
khorjeo Ro<uh , 
Chartered Jfc>nk |; 1 ] 
Chartered 

dings- 

101, ParV Street 
37, Chowriiignee 

31, Chow* mgbeel 

ftfrand K<' ad ' 



35 


Names. 


Style op calling. 


Reeidenoe or plaoe of 
business. 


Pinto, J J > 

pinto, Peter, BCOM 

poddar. Nikhil K, ma 
Pudtlar, Sailondra Sundur, MA . . 
j>ohit, Chittaranjan 
Poison Cyril Anbyn 

Poiinan, B, BA BL . . 

Poonewalla, It M 
Pooiievala, KM 
Porter, FB 
Pui irons, John 
Pmkash, Narain Ha knar 
Pnnnaniek, Jagabandliu, BSC, 
AKICS 

Pramaniek, Rabindra Nath, mom 

PnmproKdd 

Prasad Romesh 

1'rosad, I ndrr, I5SC . . 

pulley, R. W. H. B., MA (O.von) 

Pun P» K 

pun. Sat inder 

Pun. Vidyart hi Denial, MA LL1> 
Puri, Ramesh 
1‘llsw‘N , 3 W 

P\k«’. L*wis Needham, ST* 

J * \ nr, Nantosh Kumar, MSe 


Professor, St Xavier’s College 

Asstt, Burmab Oil Co (India) Trading, Ltd 

Prof, City College 
Loot. Moul ana Azad College 
Plant Engr, OEC 

Merchandise Dept. Associated Electrical Industries 
(India) Pte Ltd. 

Asstt Acetts Deptt, Indian Aluminium ( i «> 9 Ltd 

Asstt, Kilburn & Co, Ltd 

Asstl, Rallis India, Ltd 

Asst t, Jardine Hend(*rson 

Asstt, Marine Supdl, Bankline (1) Pte, Ltd 

Direct or, Dunlop Rubber Co (India) Ltd . , 

Valuation Officer, Calcutta Improvoneiit Trust 


30, Park Street 

28-2!) India Exchange 
Plaee. 

102/1, Amherst Street 
S Wellesley Street. 

0, Chittaranjan Avenue. 
(>, Mission Row. 

31 Chow ringhee Road. 

2 Fairlee Place. 

J 0 Hare St reet. 

4 (’’live Row. 

0 Lyons Range. 
f>7B Free School Strict. 
10 Nctaji Sublias Road. 


Sub-Aeett, Reserve Bank of India 
Senior Executive, Bird A Co Pte, Ltd . . 
Asstt, Carritt Moran & Co Private Ltd 
Ry Sales Manager, 'Pat a Ijoii Sled Co, Ltd 
Asstt Manager, Oxford University Press 
Asst, Maeueill & Barry 
Asstt, .James Finlays & Co, Ltd 
Prof, City College (Coin) 

Administrative, Guest Komi Williams Ltd 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Ravceport & Co, Ltd 
Lecturer, Presidency College 


S, Council House Street 
Chartered Bank Bids. 

1), Mission Row 
23B Nctaji Sublias Rd. 
Mercantile Ruildings. 

2, Fairlie Place 
2 Nctaji Sublias Road. 
13 Surya Sen Street. 

41, Cliowringhee. 

4 Banksha II St reel . 
o j 7 N S Road. 

Sb/1, College Street. 


Q 

(juuilan, J B 


Asst , Turner Morrison A Co Pte Ltd 


(*>, Lyons Range' 


R 


Riiherio, A E 

Kadinall, William G eorge 
iLiilun an, (’ V 
Rag,lia\ an, V P, BCOM, BL 
RaCmhan, V. S. V. A.M.I.E.E. 

AM] (ILoeo) E. 

IkiL'Iiahan. R \ r . . 


Ralia, Tnrapada, ma 
» kiliainan. MCOM 
kahacuui Majbur, MA. . * 

^",a M K. MA ( Eeon) 
Raf«L r opalan, M. 1). 

R«pu;di. S B .J 
| va jkiimar, Srivastava 
w, .M'ljali, Rukmangathiah, m 
( I L»us) 

{‘'il.aiii, ltlmpi-mlra Nulli, B E 
r k ' h " Sn.lHir Ch, msc 
'"U il-lll. s V 

lpltllll.,1, N \' 

murti, AS 

; llr »;u„„rt,, v, iia 

•‘nuJiHndmn, VA 
a »ianan, p G V, BA BL 

iw!" ,U , han ’ K ’ BA B L 

aQ Uyeahan, P, S. 


Asst, Macncill & Barry 
Engr, Jessoj) & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Marne ill & Barry, Ltd 

Secretarial Asst t , Babcock & Wilcosc of(lnd) Ltd 
Engr, The English Electric Co. Ltd. 

Const Acctt, B B & .J Const rn Co, Ltd 
Professor, Surendra Nath College 
Prof’, St Xaviers College 
Asstt Prof, Mon I ana Azad College 
Officer. Karam Cliand Tliaper & Co. 1,1 d 
Asst t, Burn & Co 
Ry Controller of Stores, E Rly 
Dist Sales Manager, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Engineer, Associated Electrical Industries 
(India), Ltd 

Elec Ins Directorate of Elect ri< it \ , W Bengal 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co, Lid 
Asstt, .1 Thomas & Co Pte, Ltd 
Asstt, Macncill and Burn . Ltd 
Asstt Acetts Officer, P & T 
A AO, DAGP&T 
Aetg. Assistant, Standard V acuum Oil Co 
Research Officer, Iron & Steel Control 
Asstt Acetts Officer, P & T 
Asstt, Babcock & Wilcox 

Asstt, Acetts Deptt, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 

Indian Asstt Acctt, Mercantile Bank, Ltd 
Asstt Tata Iron & Steel & Co Ltd 


kata 


. -Hswami, B S 

^wami.MNayak 
^kriahna, Chittor Subram; 


amer 


Elect Engr, Ovtavius Steed & Co, Ltd . . 

Chief Aoctt, Air Survey Co of India Private Ltd . 

Estimating Office, Jessop & Co, Ltd 


2, Fairlie Place 
t>3, Netaji Sublias Rd 
2 Fairlie Place. 

1 f 3 Brahoiirne Road. 
R-3, Gillandor House. 

P-13 Mission Row Extn. 
24, TIarrison Road 

30 Pa i k St reel . 

S Welleslcx Street. 

2o Braboiiriic Road. 

12, Mission Row. 

E Rlv House. 

(), Church Lane 
ti, Mission Row 

1 Ilansh Mukhcijic Rd. 
39, Shankar Ghose Lane 

4 Ranksha II Slice! . 

5 Mission Row. 

2, Fail lie 1 Mace 

7, Kailaghal Street 

7 Koilaghat Street. 

0, Church Lane 

33, Netaji Subhas Road 
7, Koilaghat Street 
IcV 3, Bra bourne Road 

31 Chowringbce Road. 

8 Nctaji Subhas Road. 
23/B, Netaji Subhas 

Road. 

14 Old Court House St. 

31, Chittaranjan Avenue 

63, Netaji Subhas Road 



No. 


Names. 


86 

Style or oalling. 


Ramkrishnan, K S 
Ram krish nan . S I 
Ramamritam, S. 

Ramnath, PR 
Kama nut h, C K 
Rana, Jagadis Janardan, MA 
LLR. 

Rai Iranian i. I 1 S, BA 

Rangaswamv, D 
Rangaswamv. S 


Shifting Asstt, Imperial Tobacco Co of India, Ltd 
Assistant, James Finlay & Co, Ltd 
Diet Contr of Strs, E Rly . . 

Asstt. Shalimar Paint Colour & Varnish Co, Ltd - . 
Saleroom Asstt, Brooke Bond, India Pte, Ltd 
Asstt Joewanlal (1929) Ltd 

Asstt, Aoct-ts Deptt, Indian Aluminium Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Shalimar Paint Colour & V arnish Co, Ltd . . 
Asstt, Shalimar Pain Colour & Varnish Co, Ltd 


Rao, A K 
ltao, A. R. S. 

Kao, Ram Chandra, R S 


Asstt, Jardine Hnedorson . . 
Divl Engr, E. Rly 
Asstt Engr, E Rly 


Rao, B M, BSo, (Osmania) D.F.H. Engr, English Eloctric Co, Ltd 
BSc, (Eng) (Load) A 

Rao 1). lv. 1 J • • • * Br Engr, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 

Rao! T) S, use (Hons), i> n sc . . Engr, English Eloctric Co, Ltd 

Rao, (1 V K, LLB, DIR . . Asstt. Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 

Rao, Hatiangadi Kalidas . . Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co, Ltd 

Rao, Peri Bhaskara, MSe (Matha) See Officer, Tata Iron & Steel Co Ltd . . 


Ran, P. S. B., BCom, LLB (Cal) 

Rao, RN, A C. A. 

Rao, S Rajagopala, BSc., DiTSc. 

Rao, ^ L, BA 
Rao, T R C 
Rashid, A /* H, MA 
Ray, A jit lvumar, ma, bl 

Roy, A jit Kumar 

Roy, Amal Sinha 

Ray, Ambika Prasad, msc 

Ray, Arnalendu 

Ray, Amarendra Nath, MSe 

Roy, Auupam 

Ray, Arun Kumar, msc 

Ray, Arun Cli, MSe*. . 

Ray, Asis Kumar, MA 
Ray, Ashim, msc 

Rav, Ashim, MSe 
Ray, Asimkumar, BSc 
B Arch All A. 

Ray, B 

Ray, Baidyanath, MCom 
Ray, Bhabatosh, be, ce 
Ray, Bhabani Prasad 
Ray Bijiianaiianda 
Ray, B K 

Ray, Birendra Nath, BCom 
Ray, Chandrika, BCom 
Ray, D .. 

Ray, D K 

Ray, Pebabrata, MA BCom 
Ray Dilip Kumar, mcom, aca 

Ray, Dipak 
Ray, DP 
Ray, Gopal Ch 
Ray, Ilimansu Kr., ma 
Ray, J C 

Ray, Jatindranatli, msc 
Roy, Jatiranjan, MA, aiib 

Ray, K , BL 

Ray Kalyan Kumar . . 

Ray, Kamal Kumar 
Ray, K K 

Ray, Kumud Bandhu 
Ray, Lakhan Ch 

Ray, Manindra Oh, bmegibe 
(Lond) 


Sec Officer, Tata Iron & Steel Co. 

Acctt, Bird & Co, Ltd 
Engr, English Electric Co, Ltd 
Dy Manager, Bank of Baroda Ltd 
Ditto 

Led. Moulana Azad (College 
Assistant, Gillanders Arbuthnot & Co, Ltd 
Inspector of Acctts, Port Commissioners 
Prof St. Xavier’s College 
Engr, English Electric Co, Ltd 
Ditto 

Asstt- Sr Officer, Life Insurance Corpn of India, Unit. 

— IJindusthan Co-operative Insurance Society. 
Asstt Indian Iron & Steel (Jo Ltd 
Astt. Pof, Presidency College 
Loot Moulana Azad College 
Prof, Bangabasi College 
Lee, Cal Tech School 

Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Asstt Arclit, Office of the Govt Architect 

A P R O E Rly 
Asstt Acctt, (’ESC Ltd 

Asstt, Valuer, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
Sr Office Asstt Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Professor, Bangabasi College 
Asstt Aects Officer, A G Bengal 
Supdt, R B of India 
Asstt Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Asstt Acctts Officer, E Rly 
Asstt Jan line Henderson Ltd 
Ditto 

Asstt Br Acctt, Voltas Ltd 
Asstt J, Thomas & (Jo Pie Ltd 
Asstt A W Figgis & Co Pto Ltd 
Staff Asstt, State Bank of India 
Professor, City College (Evening) 

Asstt Controller of Stores, E Rly 
Lecturer, City College 

Ind Asstt Accountant, Mercantile Bank, Ltd 
Ex Engr Cal, Improvement. Trust 
Sr Asstt Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 
Asstt James Warren & Co Ltd 
Asstt KilBum & Co Ltd 

Aoctt & Cashier, Associated British Machine Tool 
Makers (I) Ltd. 

Office Asstt Imperial Tobacco Co. of India Ltd 
Sales Engr, Standard Vacuum 

Shipping Asstt. Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd * * 


Residence or pW . 
business/ 0 *^ 


37 Cho wringing 
2f Netaji Subhas Jfo 
E Rly House 


(> Lyons Range. 

2 Metcalfe Si r, 
31, Netaji SubJu^ 


:U Chowrintrl,,,. j., iil(1 

t) Lyons Range. 

(» Lyons Range. 


4 Clive Rom . 
E Rly House. 
E Rly House. 


1 1-3, G blander Hou.-'g 


37, Oho wring} ire. 
D-3, Gillander House! 
31 Cliowringhct KcJ 
4, Bankshall Stun 
2*1 B, Net it j I S u || 

Road. 

Ditto 

Chartered Bank BinMjj 
D-3, Gillundcr Umiy 
India Exchang ( ,drq| 
Ditto. 

Ditto ' 

'’live. Buildings 
lf>, Strand Load 

30 Park St reel 
D-3, Gillandci I loti* 

Ditto. 

1 Ciiil <anin|.m A win 

1 2 Mission Row . 

80-1, College Street, 
Ditto. 

2d, Scott Lan' 1 
1 10, S N Ittuc’jo R'l 

39, Slia nk.n < » hose L 
Writers’ liuiMimg 

Esplanade M.msioU. 
Victoria IIoim* 

10, Netaji SuMi.is Ik 
37 Chow rjuglii’c l‘" :4 ' 
2d, Scott Lane 
Trasurv OniMm^ 

8, Council 1 1 f >i *s < ■ 
Uln-h.i 

H Kly ll'"i <t! 

4 Cli\ c Row 

Ditto. , 

8, Netaji 
8 Mission H"" 

D-f) ( Jilliiii'lcr 

3 Strand K< 

102/1, Amlic 
E Rly H'»>* 

102-L Amis* 1 
8, Net; iji Sul 
10 Netaji Su 

4 Fairho l’^ 

31 Choiring 

2 Fairlie I 1 !* 1 

6 Old JW- 

Ditto. 

6, Church 

2 Metcalfe 


rst 


s t Sn ,fl j 

ilms lk*j 

,<r ‘ M 


lu* 


Oflitf 


* 



No. 


Named, 


37 


Style or calling. 


Roy, M N, ba 

Ray, Mrinal Kanti, BEE 
Ray, Mural if lhar 


T)y Controller , Stationery Office, Govt of India 

Elec Insp, Directorate of Electricity, W Bengal 
Engr, B B & J Construction Co Ltd. 


Ray, M. R. - . . . . Asstt OP Niifxlt, K Illy 

Jtay, Narendra Nath, BA (Hon) Sr Aectt, E Illy 
Jtay, Narosh Chandra, Msc . . Professor, Vidyasagar College 
(Double) 

]>«,y, Nirinal Chand . . . . Jr Asstt Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 

Jtay, N K . . . . Asstt Acctts, Officer, A G Bengal 

Ray, Nisith Ranjan, MA . . Professor, St Paul’s College . . 

Ray, Nrijiendra Nath, ma, bl .. Auditor, Lovelock Lewes, (/bartered Accountants .. 
Ray, Nripendra Prasad . . Mg Director, A VV Eiggis G Co Pte Ltd 


Ray, Parimal Kumar, BSc 
Ray, Prabuddha Nath, MA 
Ray, Prahhat K inner, MA 
Roy, Pradip Kr, MA 
Ray, PS 
Jlay, R. N. 

R,ov, Prosanta Kumar, ma 
Ray, R. N. 

Ray, R N 

Rav, Ramakanta, BCom 
Ray, Samar Kumar, BSc 
Ray, Santimoy, ma 
jlay, San tosh Kr, msc 
I lay, S. N 
Ra\ , Subodh 
R.ay, Sunil Ch, MSc BT 

hay, S. K., BSc, LLB 
Roy, S K, M Com 


Engr Babcock & Wilcox of (Ind) I^td . . 

Lecturer, Moulana Azad College 
Prof City College (Evening) 

Loot. Moulana Azad College 
Asst t Scall Sc, Saxby 
Asslt Acctts Officer, A G Bengal 
Professor, Surendra Nath College 
Asstt Contr of Stores, E Rly 
Asstt Aectt Port Commissioners of Calcutta 
Asstt . Bank of Baroda Ltd 

Secy The Patterson Engineering Co (India) Pte Ltd 
Lecturer, City College 
Professor, Presidency College 
Asstt Ageucies Martin Burn Ltd 
Sub Aectt, State Bank (Park St Br) 

Dip. in Education (Edin) I)y Ch Jus. Secondary 
Education Dicto. 

Oflicer, Karain chand Thappar & Bros Pte Ltd 
Prof Surendra Nath College 


Uo\ , S P 

Roy, S K 

Pay, Sunil Singh 

Roy, S. K, n.rc.E, amik (Ind) 

Ray. S N, MA DSW 
I hay, Subhas Sindian, ma 
R ay Subodh 


Administrator, Guestkoon Williams Ltd 
Asst t- Mech Engr, E Rly 
India Asstt Aectt. Mercantile Bank Ltd 
Asstt Director, Iron & Stool Control 
Dv Labour Commissioner. W B 
Prof, Surendra Nath College 
Aectt Oetavious SU*el & Co Ltd 


Roy, Suk u mar, BME 
Ray, Sukumar Chandra, BSc 
Ray, Sunil Ch, MSc, BT 
Pay, Sunil Kimar, MA 
Pay Supriya, Msc 
Ra>,TS, BA 

Ray, Tapas Ranjan, BCom, ACA 

Ray Chaudhury, A K 

Rav Chaudhuri, Amit Kumar, 

MSc 

Ray Chaudhuri, Amal Kumar, 

MSe 

P^iii Choudhuri, Amal Kumar 
Rai Chondhuri, Anil Kumar MA 
Pa\ Chaudhuri, Hcnieudra Ch . . 
Ray Chaudhuri, Jyotirbasu, 

BCom, MA 
ll,, y Chaudhury, L M 

Ray Chaudhuri, Murari Mohon, 
ma 

ID Chaudhuri, Nareah Cli, MA 
Kai Clioudhuri, Nirmal Ch. MA, 
lta i’ Chaudhury, NN 


^>y Chowdhury, Prithis Ch, ma 
|D Chaudhuri, 8 . . 

Chaudhury, S, Mso * . 


Sales Engr, Strandard Vacuum 

Director, Dev of Industries 

Dy C 1 S E, Directorate of Public Instruction 

Led St Pauls (Cathedral Mission College 

Loot St Pauls Cathedral Mission College 

Asstt Controller, Stationery Office Go\ t of India. . 

Asstt Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 

Asstt Com Supdt, E Rly 
Prof, St. Xavier’s College 

Asstt, Bird & Co (Pte) Ltd 

Prof, Presidency College 
Prof Bangabasi College 
Ex Engr, B B &. J Construction Co Ltd 
Dy Ch Aectt, W Sc S Acctts Deptt, Corpn of Cal- 
cutta 

Vigilance Officer, E Rly 
Asst Professor, Presidency College 

Lecturer, Maulana Azad College 
Asstt Prof Presidency College 

Com Engr Lighting Div Associated Electrical 
Industries (Ind) Pte Ltd. 

Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Asstt Ex. Engr Part Commissioners of Calcutta . . 
Prof, Surqpdra Nath College 


Residence or place oi 
business. 

3, Church Lane 

1, Harish Mukherjee Rd. 
P13, Mission Row . 

Extension 
E Rly House. 

E Rly House. 

39, Sankor Gliosc Lane 

Ditto. 

Trasury Building. 

33/1, Amherst Street 

4, Lyons Range 

I)-(>, Gillander House 
(’all. 

1 & 3 Brabourne Road. 

5, Wellesley Street. 

102/1 Amharst Stmd . 

S Wellesley Street. 
Chartered Rank Building 

Trasury Buildings. 

24, Harrison Road 
E Rly House 
15 Strand Road. 

India. Exchange Calcutta 
21 Theatre Road. 

102-1, Amherst Street 
80-1, College Street. 

12 Mission Row. 

Queens Mansion. 

Writers’ Buildings. 

25, Brahourne Road. 

2 L2 Malin.t ma( land hi 

I l» )<H 1 . 

4 I ( !h< Miringliee I load. 

E Illy House. 

S Netaji Subhas Hoad. 
33, Netaji Subhas Road 

I Hast mgs St red . 

24 Harrison Road 

II Old Court House 
St root. 

(>, ( 4mrch Lane 
J35 Princep St . 

Writers’ Buildings 
Ditto 

33 1 Amherst Sfr<*el 

3 Chai'eh Lower. 
l>-4 Gi Hander llouse- 

3 Koilaghafr St retd 
30 Park Street. 

Chartered Bank Buil- 
dings 

Sti I College S tree 

25 I Scot t Pant*. 

P-B Mission Row E\1n. 

5 S N Banerjee Road 

K lily House. 

80-1, College Street 

8, Wellesley Street 
80 ( I ( Villege »S t.reet . 

13 Kajendra N. Mukher 
jee Road. 

39 Sankar Ghost* Lane 

15 Strand Road. 

24 Harrison Road 



Named. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place 0 f 
business. 


Ray Chaudhuri. Sailendra N 
Roy Ohowdhury, Sisir Kumar, 

BE,OE, AMTE 

Ray Chaudhuri Sudhindra Kumar 
Ray Chaudhurv, Sudhir Kumar 
Ray Ohaudhury, Sunil Kr, MA, 
Phi) (London) 

Ray Ohaudhury, Sunil Oh. 

Ray Chaudhnri, Sushi l Kumar, ma 
R azdan. BL 
Roove Tlonry Charles 
Reginald, Hubert Brown 

Reid-diek, JO 
Rego William Terrance, MSc 
Renga, Kajan J 
Revawa-la Punamchand Pocha- 
bhai, MA 

Ribbins, Oeorge William 

Riddey, WO 
Rikliyc, Rajeswarlal . . 

Kitehi, J 

Roach. Joseph Desmond 
Robertson, G K 
Robertson, Ronald 

Robertson William Stewart 

Robindranath K R, MA 

Rabinson, E D 
Robinson, James Gordon 

Robinson, James Richard 

Rocher, HE 
Rodewald, C N 
liadgers, RA 
Bose, ED 

Rowe, David Leslie Vivian 
Reewe, SB 
Ruddock, M N Scott 
Rudra, Bikasli Kumar 

Rudra, Jitondra N, msc 
Rudra, Sachindranath, msc 
Rugson, C C 


Dy License OfPr License Dept Corpn of Calcutta . . 5 S N Banerjee Road. 

Engr, Calcutta University . . Calcutta University 


Internal Auditor, Walford Transport Ltd 
Dept Supt, The Eastern Bank Ltd 
Asstt Prof, Maulana Azad College 


71 Park Street. 

14 Netaji Subhas Load 
8 Wellesley Street 


Asstt Martin Burn Ltd 

Professor, Bangabasi College 

Asstt Male mill & Barry Ltd 

Director, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 

Asstt Octavious Steel & (Jo Ltd 

Asstt Minerals Dept Bird & Co Pte Ltd 
Planning Co-ordinator, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Secretary, Carrit Moran & Co Pte Ltd 
Asstt- Seindia Steam Navigation Co Ltd 


12 Mission Row. 

19, Scott Lane 
2 Fairlie Place. 

37 Chowringhee 
14 Old Court House 
Street. 

Chartered Bank Bids 
6 Church Lam*. 

9 Mission Road. 

33 Netaji Subhas Ri> a ,| 


Sr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 

Traffic Manager, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Asst t Williamson Magor & Co Ltd 
Dy Genl Matigr, Allahabad Bank Ltd . . 

Asstt Hoare Miller & (Jo Ltd 

Asstt Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Asst- Personal Officer, CESC Ltd 

Manager, Printing, Imperial Tobacco Co of India 
Ltd. 

Dy Ch Auditor, Eastern Railway 

Marine Supdt, India Genl Navigation & Ry Co. Ltd 
Mg Director, Brook Bond (India) Pte Ltd 

Mangr. Lighting Div Associated Electrical Indus- 
tries (Lid) Pte Ltd 
Jr Asstt Gladstone Lyoll & Co Lt d 
Dir, Turner Morrison & (Jo Pte Ltd 
Asstt Macneill & Barry Ltd 

Asstt to Personnel Director Printing, Imperial To- 
bacco (Jo of India Ltd. 

Dir, Bird & Co Pte Ltd 

Civil Engr, Mackintosh Burn (Pte) Ltd 

Asstt James Finlays & Co Ltd 

Com Engr Lighting Div Associated Electrical 
Industries (lnd) Pte Ltd. 

Asstt Professor, Presidency College 
Trof, Bangabasi College 
Security Officer, E Rly 


4 Fairlie Place 

37 Chowringhee Road 

4 Mangoe Lam*. 

14 India Exchange lM.u-e 

5 Fairly Place. 

4 Clive Row'. 

Victoria House, ('how. 

ringhee Sq 
37 Chowringhee Road 

Jf> Strand Road 

4 Fairlie Place. 

2 Metcalfe Street 

13 Kajcndru X Miiklm* 
jee Road. 

4 Fail lee Plain* 

6 Lyons Range 
2 Fairlie Place 

37 Chowringhee Road 

Charterd Rank Buildup 
8 Netaji Subhas Road 
2 Netaj i Subhas ll-oad 
13 Rajcndr.i N Muklier- 
j in* Road 

80/1, Collegia StlOet 
2o, Scott Lane 
E Rly House. 


S 


Sabharwal, A L, BA 
Sadka, S 

Saha, A; it Kumar, msc 
Saha, Bfti kiui Chandra, ma 
S aha, Brojendra Lai, ma 
Saha, BN 

Saha, Haran Chandra 
Saha, K C 

Saha, Kamalkrishna, msc 
Saha, Narayan Chandra 
Saha, Narayan Chandra 
Saha, Nripondra Mohan, msc 
Saha, Panchugopal, BA, BL 
Saha, Ramesh Chandra BE 
(Mech), CE 
Saha. Suresh Chandra 

Saha, S K, MCom 
Saha, Upendralai, msc 
Sahay Sachehidanand 
Saigol, J P, MA, AM (USA) 

SalgoVC L P 

Sain, Kamalakanta, MA 

<n Ti_n — Trn — ™ fs TO ItitTirimm 


Genl Manager, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 
Asstt Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Asst Prof, Presidency College 
Professor, St Paul’s College 
Prof, Bangabasi College 
Asstt Acctts Officer, E Rly 
Asstt Engr, Cal Tramways Co, Ltd 
P O E Rly 

Prof, Bangabasi College 
Lecturer, Maulana A^ad College 
Prof, City College, Com Dept 
Asstt Professor, Presidency College 
Asstt, Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Inspr of Boilers, West Bengal 

Mech Dra wing Office Jessop & Co Ltd 
Controller of Imports & Exports 
Lecturer, Surendranath College 
Sub Editor, Statesman Ltd 

Employee Relation Manager, Standard Vacuum Oil 
Co. 

Supdt State Bank of India 

Lect St Panls Cattebeal Mission College 

Tjirdmn Chamber of Commeroe, , « 


31 (JhowringluM lhuuk 
4 Clive Row . 


86/1 College St. 

33/1, Amherst Street 
19 Soott Lane 
E Rly House 
P4 Mission Row Extn. 
E Rly House 
19 Scott Lane 


llesley St n»t 
rzapur Street 
Collage Streep 




63 Netaji Sublms ' 

4 Esplanade 

24, Harrison R (Wl( * 

4 Chowringhee S(i« ar( * 
6 Church Lane 


3 Strand Road. 
33/1 Amherst W*** 
23B Netaji Subhas 



Names. 


Style or oalling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


, i Kamalesh K., MA 
fuLtna, R A, BSc (Hons), MS 
•manta, NB . • 

, 11V | V s- 1 aimsdaine, J ’atriek 

Inkaran. L 

^nm'-N Biwitl Francis 
%ui\al, Amarendra N, ma 
j.uivil, Asliutosli, MA 
, inv .,|. Blurpcndra Nath, MSo 
Smval Sudhindra Kumar, mso 


Asstt Acott, R B ol Tndia 
K It Asstt, Standard Vacum Oil Co 
l)ist Engr (Project), E Rly 
Asstt Williamson Magor & Co Ltd 
Sr Accounts Officer, (Con) 

Sales Engr, Heat ly Gresham Ltd 
Prof, Surendranath College 
Professor, City College (Evening) 
Prof, Oily Ooilege (Evening) 
Lecturer, Calcutta Technical School 


Samwldar, Sudhangsu, bee 
SaTiit my cr, (lanapati 
ion:vrayn.n, N . . 

frjrbadliikari, B 0, MA 
fiarbridhikari, Tirnir ltanjan, 
fi;u<l«ir. Sceta Nath 
ftnUr A K 

Karkar. Ajit Kumar, D.F.H. 


tSai'kai , A joy Kumar, ma, lUj . . 
iSarkar. Anilkumar, MSC 
Lsarkar. Arunendii 
k’n-kur. As'ioke Hari, BSc, Boom 
lr kai, At.nl Ch, MrOM 
nLu- Balai Chandra 
jilur Bani Shankar, MA 
t (i k;ii , Beno\ endra, ma 
nival Ik BA 
irkar, B K 
ukai , |) I*, MSe 

it On depend ra Prasanna, BEE 

irkar. Harimohan, MSc 
irkar dagadish Ch, MSc 
irkar. Dr .lat.il Ch, MA,nm 
irkar, Kalipada, MSc 

ickai Kanial Krishna, BA 

irk n i Manabendra 

rll k.ll , M !U 

d! i, a i . M N, MSC 

‘irkar, Niranjati, ma,tjji 

•"k.u. V G, MSc 
atkar, I‘ 1\ 

■irkar, Plumindra Nath, BEE . . 

arkai, pritiman, MSc 

arkar Ramatosh, MSc 

•"Ivai, Rebut iranjan, mA 

;lf kai. Pclmti Raman, MA 

■'irkar. Up 

•irkfit RR 

:u ‘kai, y N # MA 

ar kar, San jit Kumar 

■ ark, ‘r • s uuat K, MSc 

S.mt.(sl) Kumar. MSc, 

UlM.il. 

virhnc. Snl.liiiH, ma 
'• irkar, Susliain, BA 

,ilr Ur. Su.lliirulra, 


l k r ' S U > M ‘ A - (Harvard 
*■ * Shankar, msc 
^nkin , Tarim C|, ,BA 

y" 1 ' 1 A N .ba 

aSma l’ ^ n ^di Krishna, bme 

V^tri, p << 

S** 0 - B.L.C. 

te Sikr 11 ' (l)r) 

U ,ti a ' u : A x > BCom', LLB 
^athan, V , BA (Hon.). » 

«kar.SB 

Ndfis, I) j 

P't.PA 


Lecturer, Calcutta Technical School 
Asst t Rngr, B B & J Construction Co, Ltd 
I >y Ch Elec Engr 

Sub-Agent, Central Bank of India Ltd 

Lecturer, Presidency College 

Asstt Engr, B B & j Construction Co, Ltd. 

Asstt, Burn <V Co Ltd 

Asstt Engr, Associated Electrical Industries (India) 
Pte Ltd. 

Staff Officer, The Chartered Bank 
Prof, Banga.hasi College 
Prof, Vidvasagar College 
Taie Ex f»crl Lovelock & Lewes 
Asstt Registrar of Companies, West Bengal 
Acctt , Lipton Ltd 
Prof, City College* (Com Dept) 

Lecturer, City College 
A A O, 1 PA G P & T Office . . 

Olfg Ex Engr, HO Port Commissioners 
Prof St x aN ieur’s College 

Elec Insp, Directorate of Electricity West Bengal 
Lecturer, Presidency College 
Lecturer, Presidency College 
Asstt Prof, Maul ana Azad College 
Prof, Surendra Nath College 

Asstt Bank of China 

Wagon Drawing Office, Jcssop & Co Ltd 
Asstt ,Com Supdt E Rly 
Asst (Controller, Stationery Office 
Prof, (City (College (Com) 

Asstt Acctt. Iron & Steel Cold roller 
Acctt, Octavius Steel & (Co, Ltd 
Asstt Mains Engr, (C E S C Ltd 
Lecturer, Presidency Ooilege 
TiO.ct in Math, St Paul’s College 
Professor, (City College (Com Dept) 

Prof, City College (Evening) 

L)y Contr of Stores, E Rly 

Qnt y Surveyor. Port Commissioner, (Calcutta 

Asstt Acctt, Officer, E Rly 

Asstt, Bird & Hedgers 

Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Prof Surendra Nath College 

Prof, Surendra Nath College 
Asstt, Martin Burn Ltd 

Dy Ch Valuer, Chief Valuncr & Surveyor's Dept 
Oorpn of Cal. 

Asstt, Sales Doptt, Indian Aluminium Co, Ltd 
Prof, Bangahasi College? 

Asstt, Metal Doptt , Martin Burn Ltd 

Supdt State Bank of India 
Lecturer, Calcutta Technical School 

Sales Director, Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 

Dy Ch. Op ‘ Supdt, E Rly 
Principal, Sanskrit College 
Prof, Sanskrit College 
Asstt, J Thomas & Co Pte Ltd 
Officer, Karam Chand Thaper & Co. Ltd 
Asstt Acctt, National & Grindlays Bank Ltd 
(Lloyds Branch) 

CALL B-Supdt Central Bank of (I) Ltd 
Personel Offr, James Warren & Co Ltd 
Asstt Kilburn & Co Ltd ... 


S Council House St. 
f> Church Lane. 

,‘J8 Chowringhee Road 
4 Mangoo Lane. 

38 Chouringhoe. 

*11 Chittaranjan Avenue. 
24 Harrison Hoad 
102/1 Amhorest, Street 
102 I Amherst Strreot. 
110 Surendra Nath 
Banerji Road 

1 10 S. N. Banerji Rd. 
PH Mission Row Kxtn. 
E Rly House. 

33 Netaji Subhas Road 
80/1 College Street 
PH Mission Row Extn. 
12 Mission Row. 

H Raj endra Nath Mu- 
kherjeo Rd. 

4 Netaji Subhas Road 

2f> Scott Lane 

.‘{9 Shankar Glume Lane 

4 Lyons Range. 

27 Brabotirno Road 
0 Weston Street. 

12 Mir/.a]mr Street 
102-1 Amherst Street. 

7 Koilaghat Street. 

15 Strand Road 

20 Park Strict. 

1 Parish Mukhorjoe Rd. 
86/1 College Street. 

80/1 College Street 

8 Wellesley Street 
24 Harrison Road 

l. r > Bra bourne Road. 

02 Netaji Subhas Rd. 

2 Koilaghat, Street. 

2 Church Lane 

12 Mirzapur Street. 

22 Netaji Subhas Rd. 

14 Old Court House St 
Victoria House 

80/1 College Street 
22 /I Amherst Street 
12 Mirzapur Street 
102/ I Amherst Street. 

E Rly House 

15 St rand Road. 

E Rly House. 

Chartered Bank Bldgs 

39 Sankar Ghose Lane 
24 2 Mahatma Gandhi 

Road. 

24 Harrison Rd 
12 Mission Row. 

5 S N Bauer jee Road. 

31 Chowringhee Road 
2 f> Scott Lane 
12 Mission Row . 

3 Strand Road. 

110 Surendra Nath Ba- 
il or ji Road 
2 Metcalfe Street. 

E Rly House 
Sanskrit College 
Sanskrit College 
8 Mission Row . 

25 Brabourne Road. 

29 Netaji Subhas Road 

33 Netaji Subhas Rd. 

31 Chowringhee Road. 

2 Fairlie Place. 



No. 


N*m«w. 

Scott,, T r 

Sch linker, Charles Victor, M I.E.E. 

(Lend), A. M. I. 

Scoll Ian Camp boll Graham 

Scott , KC N 

Seal, Panehkari 

Seal , Nirmal Kumar, BA 

Sebastian, AT P, MSc 

Sen, A, MA 

Sen, A K, BA 

Sen, A K 

Sen, Aliii idra Nath 
Sen, Aj it Lai 

Sen, A run Kumar. Bt’orn AC A 

Sen, AC, BSe 

Sen, Amar Math, BA 

Sen, Amalenclu 
St‘11. Ashoke ( Chandra 
Sen, Ba.eliaram 
Sen, Bijou, At A 
Sen, Bir Singh 

Sen . Bisw a jit 

Sen, Bah lya Nath 

Sen, Brojesh Oh, ms e 
Sen, t> 

Sen, J >eba.hrata, MA 
Sen, Badal 

Sen, Debi Brosa-d, ATA 
Sen, Dili]) Kumar, AA 
Sen, Dilip Kumar, B Dorn, ADA 
Sen, Dwipendra Nath. MSe 
Sen, HA 

Sen, Dipti Kumar, MSe 
Sen, Jit on 

Sen. Jyoti Prukash, ATA 
Sen, K N 

Sen, Kalika Brosad, BSc, BE . 

Sen Kiron Oh, msc 
Sen, Alihir Kumar ma, mm 
Sen, Monilal, BSe 
Sen ATrinal Kanti. BSe 

Son N * * 

Sen, Nihar Kanta, ATSe 

Sen, N B, B Com 

Son, NK 

Son, Nanilal, MA 

Sen, Nirmal Sehandra, BA 

Sen, Nripendra Brasanna 

Sen, BO 

Sen, Bab itra Kumar, BE (Civil) 
AMI (Struct) E (UK) 

Sen, Bankoj K, msc 
Sen, Bari tosh * • 

Sen, Brabir Chandra, BCom 

Sen, Bravat Sankar 
Sen, Bra till hi Kumar, BSe 
Sen, Brafulla Sankar, ma 
Sen, Bremballav, ma 
Sen, PS 

Sen, R hi AME Meeh E 
Sen, Rabindra, Nath mso - • 

Sen, Rabindra Nath, MA, LLB, 
BCom (bmd) ASAA, ICA 
(Bond & Ind.) 

Son, Rahul, BA (Cal), CA (UK) 
Sen, Ramendra K. 

Son, RK 
Sen, S 


40 

Style or calling. 

Manager, Imperial Tobaceo Co of India Ltd 
A salt Manager, English Electric Co, Btd 

Alangr, Steal Bros & Co Ltd 
Asst.t James "Finlays & Co Ltd 
Dept Supdt, The Eastern Bank Ltd 
StufTp Asst.t, Chartered Bank 
prof, St Xavier’s College 
Prof St Javier’s College 
I)y Asstt, Iron & Steel Controller 
Asstt, Aee.tts, (.) Hie.er, A G Bengal 
Accountant, CESC Ltd 

Jr Asst t, Gladstone Lyall &, Co Ltd 
Asstt. Regr, Office of the Regr of Companies W B 
A A O, DAG L* Sr. T Office 
( kty Supdt, Galondoniati Insurance Co 
Engr Asstt , < inlanders Arbuthnot. &. Co LLl 
Asstt Prof, ITesideney College ;; * 

Sr Office Asst.t , Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd. 

Production Offr. Home (Pub) Dept 
Asst , James Finlay & Co 

Asst.t . ATaeneill Sr Barry Ltd • • 

Sr lid Asstt , Health Dept (Medical Br) W L 

Lecturer, Presidency College 

Asst.t Industrial Dept, Bird Sr Co Pte Ltd 

Leet . Moulana Azad (College 
Suh Editor, Statesman Ltd 

Asst.t, Prof, Presidency College 

Qut.y Surveyer, Port (Commissioner, (Calcutta 

Asstt, Bird Si Co (Pte) Ltd 
Asstt, Martin Burn Ltd 

Mercantile Asstt, Maekinon Mackenzie & Co 
Lecturer, Presidency College 
Suh Editor, Statesman Ltd 
Officer-in-( •barge, Martin Burn Ltd 
Ex Engr, Port Commissioners 
Asstt Mains Engr, C E S C Ltd 
Asst Prof, Presidency College 
Professor, Vidyasagar College 
Statistic Engr, C E S C Ltd 
Mains Engr., C E S C Ltd 

Asstt., Com Supdt, E Rly • - ; * 

()ffieer-in -Charge, Share Dept. Martin Burn Ltd 

Aectt. R B of India . 

Mercantile Asst t , Maekinnon Mackengio cN ( o 

Professor, Bangabasi College 
Officer, Seindia Steam Navigation Co I Ad 

Asstt, to Sales Director, Imperial Tobacco Co of 

India Ltd. . s n 

Mercantile Asstt. Maekinon Maekcnze & Go 

CTivil Engr, Patterson Engineering Co Pte Ltd 

Vice Principal, Cal Tech School 
Inspector of A/C, HO Port Commissioners 
Asstt, Allahabad Bank Ltd - * 

Asstt, Place Siddons & Gough Pte Ltd 
Asstt. Aectt, James Warren & (Jo Ltd 
Asstt Prof, Mau la na A/. ad College 
Prof, Bangabasi College 
Sub Editor, Statesman Ltd 
Sales Engr, Jleatly & Grasham Ltd 
Lecturer, 1 'residency College 
Partner, Price Waterhouse Peat & Go . . 

Aectt, Brook Bond (India) Pte Ltd 
Prof, City College (Com Dept) 

Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Asstt, Soott & Saxty 


Residence or 

busine*^ ,, 

37 ChowringliDf. 
D-3 Gill an rlo r ]j n ^ 

Gillander 
2 Net.aj i Suhlias ft, 
14 Net.aj i Kuhl lfls f 
4 Netaji S'ubh^p 
30 Park Street 
30 Park Strew. 

33 Netaji Swl,i, us 
Treasury Buildup 
Victoria House, rjj, 
ghee St j 

4 Fairlit 4 Place, 

27 Brabourne R,> a «; 
7 Koilaghat Sim-t 
B-3 Gillander Tl ()l] 
Gillander House 
SO/1 ( loll eg. - Sii'iTt 
37 Chow I Uigliee 
Writers' I Hiihlmg. 
2 Netaji Siiblm.s R 
2 Fairlee Place 
Writers' Hnilding* 
SO/1 ( \> liege St fee 
Chartered P>,mk I 

5 Wellesle\ Sthet 
4 ChowTinglice Ss| 
SO /I College StriH 

. ] 5 St rain ! Pom*! 

Chartered Rank J 
12 Mission Low 
]0 Strand I >. i • 1 
SO/1 ( 'nl]t‘L"‘ St re* 
d ( Ihow nngliei Si 
12 Mission Pew 
]5 Strand Bel 
\'ie.t oria IIoUm 5 

SO/1 College St 
30 Sankar <Hio-e 
\'iet oi ia 1 L* ui"*t 
Victoria 1 1 ( 'iix- 
3 Ivoila.gli;* I StM r 

12 M is ."*' 1,1 1 *°"* 
S Council 1L >usc 
]0 Strand IL»aii 
2o, Scott Laiu' 

33 Net oi .Siihiiic 

37 Clmw rmglicr. 

l(i St rand L n ^- 
21 Theatre 

IHkSNKmcrjo- 

15 Strand 
14 India R N(,l,a 
Place. 

. . o Ly‘ ,1,s 

:n ch * rnir 1 
’ * 8 Wellesh 

25 Scott Laii c ^ 

*. 4 (Hit)" 1 1,! h ‘^ji 

’/ 80/1 College ^ 
•u.4 i.hd }Ul(i 


ealfe^ 


2 Met c-a-- £ 
13 Sur>^ 

12 

Chartend J* 

dings* 



Names. 


41 


Sen, S 

Sen, S K, BA (Hons) 

Sen, Saohindra Kumar, MA 
Sen, Sailendra Kumar, ma 
Sen, Sailendra Kumar, msc 
Son, Sakti Sankar, ACA 
Sen, Santiranjan, ma 
Sen, Saroj Kumar, ma 
Sen, Subhas Ch, B Com 
Sen, Subodh Ranjan, BEE 
Sen, Sunil Chandra, mso 
Son, Sunil Kumar, MSc 
Sen, Sushil Chandra 
Sen, Sushil Kumar, ma 
Sen, Tapan, MSc 
Sen, Tarak Nath, MA 
Son Choudhuri, Laksmi Kant, 

MA. 

Sen Chaudhuri, Paresh Kishore, 

MSO 

Sen Gupta, Ashim Kumar 

Sen Gupta, Ashulosh 

Sen Gupta, Bijoy Bhusan BA . . 

Seng apt a, Bijan Kumar 

Sen Gupta, Bimalendu BCom BL 

Son Gupta, Deb Kumar, MA 
Sen Gupta, Hirondra Jyoti 
Sen Gupta, H N, BSc (Hon) 

Sen Gupta, K P, MA, MCom 

Sen Gupta, Kiron Cb 
Sengupta, Nirmal Kumar 
Sengupta, Pabitra K, bme 
Sen Gupta, Pinaki, B Coin, ACA 
Sen Gupta, Phani Bhusan, ACA 


Sen, 1 ‘radii* Kumar, BE 

Sen Gupta, Prithri ltanjan 

Sen Gupta, Proinothanatb, msc 

Sen Gupta, Rabindra Nath, msc 

Sen Gupta, Rajendra Dal, mso, 
PHI) t . 

Sen Gupta, Ramanath, bo 
S engupta, Ran jit, msc 
Sen Gupta, S 

Sengupta, Sanjoy Kumar, dfh . . 


S(*n Gupta, Sanjoy Ranjan 
Si n Gupta, San tosh Kumar, BA 
See Gupta, Saroj Kumar, BSc 
(Engg), Elect Mech (BHU) 

Sen Gupta, Saroj Kumar, MA 
Sen Gupta, Satya Prasad, MA 
Sengupta, Sisir Kumar, MA, ACA 


Sengupta, Sudhir K, ma 
Sen (iupta, Sudhir Ranjan 
Sen Gupta, T 

Son Ray, Amit, BCom, ACA 
Sen Roy, Dibyendra, BSc 
‘Sen Sarma, Priyadarsan, msc 
Subhas 
A joy Chand 


«eth, Ayodya Nath, BA 
8ett - J K, BSc 

a!!; ' , j. ban Krishna, MA 

MA.LLB.DPA 
JJah, C A, B Com, LLB 
h, Hariram, boom, llb 
hah, Magbul Ahmed, MA 
“hah, R H, BSo 


Style or oolling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


Asstt, Bird & Heilgers 
Dy Chief Controller of Imports & Exports 
Asstt, Dunlop Rubber Co (India) Ltd . . 
Asstt Professor, Presidency College 
Asstt Prof, Maulona Azad College 
Acctt, Bird & Co, Ltd 
Professor, City College 
Professor, City College (Com Dept) 

Supdt (Offg), R B of India 
Electrical Inspr, Directorate of Electricity, W 
Asstt Professor, Presidency College 
Loct, Presidency College 

Vice-Principal, Government College of Art & 
Lecturer, City College 
Prof, City College (Evening) 

Professor, Presidency College 
Asstt, Share Dept Martin Bum Ltd 


Bengal 

Craft 


Chartered Bank Bldgs 
4 Esplanade East. 

5 7B Free School Street. 
86/1, College Street 
8, Wellesly Street 
Chartered Bank Buildings 
102/1, Amherst Street 
102/1 Amherst Street. 

8 Council House Street 
1 Ilarish Mukerjeee Rd 
86/1, College Street- 
86/1 College Street. 

28 Cliowringhee Road 
102/1, Amherst Street 
102/1 Amherst Street. 
86/1, College Street 
12 Mission Row. 


Asstt Prof, Presidency College 


86/1 College Street 


Asstt, James Finlays & Co Ltd 
Prof ,City College 

West Bengal Provincial Co-operative Bank Ltd 

Asst, Share Dept, Martin Burn 
Asstt Share Dept. Martin Burn Ltd 

Lect, St Pauls Cathedral Mission College 
Asstt, Mather & Platt Ltd 
Engr, The English Electric Co Ltd 
Prof St Xavier’s College 
Administration, Guest Keen Williums Ltd 
Prof, City College (Com. Depart) 

Inspector of Factories 

Asstt, Bird & Co (Pte) Ltd 

Diroctof of Administration , Dunlop Rubber Co 
(India) Ltd. 

Engr, Babcock & Wilcox of (India) Ltd 

Asstt, Burn & Co. Ltd 
Professor, Bangabasi College 

Lecturer, Surendra Nath College 
Professor, Presidency College 


2 Netaji Subhas Road. 
102/1 Amherst Street. 
16 Old Court House 
Street. 

1 2 Mission Row 
12 Mission Row. 

33/1 Amherst. Street . 

7 Hare Street 
D-3 Gillatidor Bouse. 

30 Park SttToet. 

41 Cliowringhee Road. 

J 3 Surya Son St 
1 Hastings St 

Chartered Bank Bldgs 
57B Free School Street. 

1 & 3 Brabourne Road. 
12 Mission Row. 

25, Scott Lane 

24, Harrison Road 
86-1, College Street 


Officer, United Bank of India, Ltd 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Asstt, Macneill & Barry Ltd 
Asstt, Mains Engr, CESC Ltd 

Asstt Acctt, CESC Ltd 
Officer, Oxford University Press 
Engineer, Indian Cable Co, Ltd 

Prof, City College (Evening) 

Prof Vidyasagar College 

AsBtt Acctt, India Genl Navigation and Railway Co. 
Ltd 

Prof, City College 
Acctt, Banner LawTie & Co Ltd 
Asstt., Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Asstt, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 
Sub-Acctt, The Chartered Bank 
Prof, Bangabasi College 

Saleroom Asstt, Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Accounting Ins Deptt, Imperial Tobacoo Co 
of India Ltd. 

Sub-Acctt, State Bank (Park St Br) 

Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Prof, St Paul's Cathedral Mission College 
Officer, Karam Chand Thapar & Bros, Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Jewanlal (1929) Ltd 
Asstt, Davenport & Co Private Ltd 
Lect, Moulana Azad College 
Asstt Magr, Soindia Steam Navigation Co Ltd 


67 A, Netaji Subhas Roa.1 
39, Sankar Gho.se Lane 
2 FairJit* Place. 

Victoria House, Chow- 
ringhee S(| 

Victoria House. 

Mercantile Buildings. 

9 Hare Street 

102/1 Amherst Street. 
39 Sankar Ghoso Lane. 
4 Fairly Place 

1 02/1 Amherst Street 
21 Netaji Subhas Rd. 

4 Clive Row. 

B-4 Oillander House*. 

4 Netaji Subhas Road. 
25 Scott Lane 

2 Metcalfe Street. 

37 Cliowringhee. 

Queen’s Mansion. 

6 Church Lane 

33/1 Amherst Street. 

25 Brabourne Road 
31 Netaji Subhas Road 

5 & 7 Netaji Subhas Rd 
8 Wellesley Street. 

33 Netaji Subhas Road. 



No. 


Names. 


4Z 

Style or oalling. 


Shah, Rajendra Santilal 
Shahatii, Naraindas Chandiram 
Sharma, Anand Mohan 

Sharrna, Balak Ram 
Sharma, B V 
Sharina, I D, BA 
Sharma, Kali Charan, BSe 

Sharma, Promswarup 

Sluirma, P N, BA Com, LLB,ACA 
Sharma, Sada Nand, BA 
Sharma, Sasld Sekhar, B Com . • 
Sharma, Shaut ilall 


Sharman, D A, AC, DS 
Shaw-ILamilton, C F 
Shearer, William Wallace, M I 
(Structural) E 
Shenoy, HD 

Sherarton, E ; • * 

Shett.v, Marakada .1 inraj, BEME 
(PH), AMJLE 

siiorne. PK, MA, BE CATTB .. 
Shrivashab, Shih Naravun 


Asstt Baimer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Indian Asst Acctt, Mercantile Bank Ltd 
Labour Adviser, Imperial Tobacco Co of 
India, Ltd 

Asstt, Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Acctt, Lipton Ltd 
Adm Officer, Tea Board 

(Chemist, The Patterson Engineering Co (India) Pte 
Ltd. 

Engr, Associated Electrical Industries (lnd) Pte 
Ltd. 

Asstt Acctt , English Electric Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Sr Oflicer, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 
Mangr, Factory Supplies, Imperial Tobacco Co of 
India Ltd 

Asstt Acctt, Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 

Mangr, Steel Bros & Co, Ltd 

Genl Mangr, A & J Main & Co, Ltd 

p G Trainee, Associated Electrical Industries (lnd) 
Pte Ltd. 

Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 

Sr Engr, Paterson Engineering Co (India) Pte Ltd . . 


Asstt Acctt, Central Bank of (lnd) Ltd 

Cliief Traffic Officer, Calcutta Tramways Co Ltd . 


Shroff, Dorab S 
Shukla, Loknath 
Sidhanta, N K 
Simpson, J B 
Sidditjui, Fakruddin, MA 
Sidney, Charles Farmer 
Simms, Philip Charles 
Sil, Jagauath 
Singh, Balram 
Singh, llarjit 
Singh, (•hand Kumar 
Singh, Amrik 

Singh, G, MA, B1 
Singh, Kunwar Anand, ncioin 
(London) 

Singh, K K, BSe 
Singh, Rainawatar, mA 
Singh, Rama Shankar, BCom 
Sinha. Amitava, M^ 

Sinha, Anil lv, BA 

Si nil a, Biplab Kumar, BSe, MCom 

Sinha, R N BSe 

Sinha, R S 

Singh, Sardar Avtar, BA, LLB . . 

Sinha, C C 

Sinha, II S 

Singh, Prodip, MA 

Sinha, Ranvir 

Sinha, Shashi Kumar 

Singh, Ram Vyas, MA 

Singh, Ram Narayan, MA, LLB 

Sinha, Satyabrata, MSc 

Sinha, Shivaprasad, ma 

Sinha, T D, BA, BL 

Sinha, Nirmal Kanti, ma 

Sinha Ray, Arun Kumar 

Sinha Ray, Ram Krishna . • 

Sinha Roy, S K 

Sinha Ray, Sisir K 

S ha ram, H K, bsc, be 

Sitaram, K R 

Skinner, E W 

Smith, A A 

Smith, A V 

Smith, David Duncan 


Asstt, Macneill & Barry Ltd 
Sr Asstt, Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Asstt, Turner Morrison & Co, Pte, Ltd 
Acct, Nat ional & Grindlays Bank Ltd 
Lent., Moulana A/ml ( Jollege 
Asst t , Oetoarius Steel & Co Ltd 
Asstt Baimer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Asstt , James Warren A t ( •<> Ltd . . ^ 

( Allied' Personnel Officer, Baimer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Asstt Personnel Officer, Baimer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Asstt Pearson nel Officer ,Biluner Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Jr Engr, Associated Elctrical Industries (lnd) Pte 
Ltd. 

Prof, St Xavier’s College 
Auditor, Lovoloek and Lewes 

Op Asstt , Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Professor, City College (Com Dept) 

Asst t Acct t , Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Leet in English, St Paul’s College 
Asstt, Agencies Dept Martin Buru Ltd 
Asstt, Dunlop Rubber Co. (India) Pte Ltd 
l)ist Sales Manager, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Asst t, Turner Morrison & Co, Pte, Ltd 
Officer, Karam (‘hand Thaper & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Op Supdt , E Rly 
Truck Supply Officer, E Rly 
Lect,St Paulis Cathedral Mission College 
Asstt Personnel Officer, Baimer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Asstt Personnel Officer, Baimer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Prof, Bangabasi College 
Prof, City College (Evening) 

Prof, City College (Evening) 

Prof, City College (Com) 

Secy, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 
Asstt, Prof, Presidency College 
West Bengal Provincial Co-operative Bank Ltd 
Asstt , Agencies Dept Martin Brun Ltd 
Asstt Engr, E Rly 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Asstt, Mains Engineer, C E S C, Ltd 
Administrator, Guest Keen Williams Ltd 
Asstt, James Warren & Co Ltd 
Supd Eng, Barkline (India) Pvt Ltd 
Acctt John Thompson (I) Pte Ltd 
Secy, Hoare Miller & Co, Ltd 


Residence or place of 
business, 

21 Netaji Subhas R ( | 
8 Netaji Subhas p v(uu j 
37 Chowringhee Road 


14 India Exchange pj 
9 Weston Street ^ 
14 Brabourne Road 
27 Theatre Road 


13 Rajendra Nath 
Mukherjee Road 

D-3 Gillandcr- H, )U ^ 

14 India Exchange p| (Ul 
23B Netaji Subhas R ,‘ d( j 
37 Chowringhee 

2 Metcalfe Street 
Gillandcr House 
16 Netaji Subhas l { m j 

13 Rajendra Nath 
Mukherjee Road 

4 Clive Row . 

21 Theatre Road 

33 Netaji Subhas Jh, ; „i 
P-4 Mission Row 
Extension. 

2 Fairlie Place 

14 India Exchange ]% 
6 Lyons Range 

6 Church Lain*. 

8 Wellesley St i eel. 

14 Old Court. H oust Si 
21 Netaji Suhliaslhl 
31 Chowringhiv Road 
21 Netaji Subhas ltd. 
2J Netaji Subhas ltd 
21 Netaji Subhas ltd. 
13 Rajendra Nath 
Mukherjee Read 
30 Park Street 
4 Lyons Range 


6 Church Lane 

13 Mirzapui Street 

14 India Em Iim litre 11# 
33/1 Amherst Street 

12 Mission Row . 
f>7B Free Si l»ool Stm 
6 Church Lane 
6 Lyons Range 
25 Brabourne Road. 

E Rly House 
E Rly House. 

33/1 Amherst Street. 
21 Netaji Subhas ltd. 
21 Netaji Subhas Kd. 


25/1 Scott Lane 
102/1 Amherst Street. 
102/1 Amherst Street. 
13 Mirzapur Street 

31 Chowrhinghee Ro# 
86/1 College St. 

16 Old Court HcUhe* 
12 Mission Road. 

E Rly House. 

4 Clive Row 


)lise 

Vhee*** 
,rhw H l,sd ' 



Names. 


43 

Style or calling. 


o.iih James, Binny 
Smith James, Oellatly 

Sll «tl.. Mark Hcury 


Smith Gilbert 

Smith, John 
mith, Malcolm 


m itU, V It 

mith, W Me Dougali 
mil),, Stanley Mackay 

iiaith, W 

Im.vthe, hi 
Inolgrove, J U 


U)(lllij ^ iiin 

Mtli.il, Ninuijan lvumar, A11B 

;<)|nmoiu F T, ACA - . 
m iiidl u ’ D E> BA, LLB 


MK’irs. C M 
•iiiiskias, A M 


vijiinmii. D 
Srinivasa n. 
SrmivasMii, 
Sriuivasan, 
Snnivasaii, 


G 

l, BCom, LLB 
K V Iyer, be ami 
M K, MA 


Sriuivasan , Raguvacliary , 
(lions). Grad TEE 
Sriuivasan, R 
Sriuivasan, V, MSc 
Snvasthava, B P 
Si i \nsl a va, K C, BSe*. 

Sri vast av a, Mritunjoy Prosad 
Stark William Johnstone 
St auli ton, W 
StlMIl, 0(1 

Stephen, I ) G 
Stcphi'n, W J 

Stc\ enson, Thomas Goon*. 

SI evens, B r P • ■ 

Stroii*; Henry Patrick 


Asstt, Thomas Duff & Co (Ind) PU' Ltd • 

Chartered Acctt, Thomas Duff & Co (Ind) Pte Ltd 
Asstt Acctt, National & Grindlays Bank Ltd 
(Lloyds Brandi). 

Asstt, Bird & Heilgers 

a /.ni f r rtio Rank . . 


Acting Manager, Tea tstates Dept, James Warren 
& Go. Ltd. 

Asstt, Turner Morrison & Co Ltd 
Asstt,’ Maokneil & Barry 
Mg Director, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Sr Asstt, Allaliahad Bank Ltd 

Planning Mangr, Lipton Ltd 

Asstt Marine Supdt, British India Steam Naviga- 
tion Co Ltd. 

Asstt, Sha Wallace & Co. Ltd 

Indian Asstt Acctt, Mareentile Bank Ltd • 

Manager, Taxation, Dunlop Rubber Co (India) Ltd 
Officer, Karam Chand Thapar & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Sales, Imperial Tobacco Co India Ltd 
Asstt South British Insurance Co Ltd 

Asstt Controller of Surch, E Rly 

Asstt , Shalimar Paint Colour & Varnish Co Ltd 
Purchase Deptt, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 
Structural Engr, A &• J Main & Cx> Ltd 
Jr Officer, Life* Insurance Corpn, Hiudusthaii Co-op 
Ins Society (Unit). 

Asstt, Mains Engr, CESC Ltd 


Dy Ch Aeot s Officer, E Rly 

Loot in Chem, St Paul’s College 

Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd -• 

Asstt, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 

Asstt, Allahabad Bank Ltd 

Production Mangr, Lipton Ltd , » 

Asstt Acct t , Imperial Tobacco Co India Ltd 
Asstt, Tractors Engr Dept, James Warren & Co 
Ltd. 

Asstt, Kilburn & Co. Ltd 
Jr Asst t , Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Sha Wallace & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Rallis (India) Ltd .. * 

Asstt, Gonl Ad mil, lndo Burma Petroleum Co Ltd . . 


Sulibu Kao Kesiraju, ASAA, ACA 

Sulim, M C H 


Asstt Acctt, Brook Bond (India) Ptc Ltd 
Asstt, B B & J Construction (Jo Ltd 


iuluiimanian, D, BSe 
iuhraiminiam, A R G 
hilmimanian, N P, BA, ACA 
Subramanian, PS 
iuhramanium, Rainier 
Mihramanian, Kamaiy( > r 

^ukul, Benode Sankar 
Sukumaran, P P 
•Siindarcsati, N 

Sundaram, B Kalyana, ma, llb, 
Sukhtankar, A R 
bimdarasan, R, MA, CAIIB 
Sibaprosad, MSc 

butradhar, Madan Gopal, MSc . . 
bwami, K R N, BA . . 
bwamy, R n 
Swa ine, Derek 

Swaminathan, T R, Bcom, aca . . 
7 a “n , J A K 

Nilotpal, MSc, LLB 


Demonstrator. St Xavier s ( College 
Acctt, Lipton Ltd . . 

( <h Acctt <fc Secy, Orient Longmans Pte Ltd 
Sr. Assistant Accountant, Port Commissioners 

Coach, East Office, Jcssop & Co Ltd 
Engr, Associated Electrical Industries (Ind) Pte 
Ltd. 

Asstt, Balmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 

Sales Director, Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 

Asstt Secy, to O M, E Rly 

Asstt Secretary, Indian Chamber of Commerce 
Asstt, Supdt, Bengal Chamber of Commerce 
Prob Asstt, R B of India 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Asstt, Bird & Co (Pte) Ltd 
Asstt, Iron & Steel Control 

Asstt, James Warren & Co Ltd 

Asstt, James Warren & Co Ltd 

Asstt, Accounts Dept, Indian Aluminium Co, Ltd 

Staff Asstt, State Bank of India 

Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Asst, Macneill & Barry Ltd 


T 

a *t Tpreruy Williams 


•ft Eric: 


Asstt Officer, Hongkong & Shanghai Banking 
Corporation. _ , 

Sales Manager, Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Baimer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Supdt, State Bank of India 


lie side i ic or place of 
business 

3 (-live Row. 

3 Clive Row. 

21) Netaji Subhas Road. 

Chartered Bank Bldgs 

4 Netaji Subhas Road. 

31 Cliowringhec Road. 

0 Lyons Range 
2 Fairlie Place 
4 Bankshall Street 
14 India Exchange* Place 
9 Weston Street 
Iff Strand Road. 

4 Bankshall Street. 

8 Netaji Subhas Road. 
57B Free School Street . 
25 Brabourne Road. 

37 Cliowringhec. 

10 Netaji Subhas Road. 

E Rly House, 
ff Lyons Range 1 . 

31 Cliowringhec Road. 

16 Netaji Subhas Road 
4 Chittaranjan Avenue. 

Victoria House, Chow- 
ringhee Scj 
E Rly House 
33/1 Amherst' Street; 

4 Clive Row. 

B-4 Gillander 1 Foust*. 

14 India Kxchungc Place 
0 Weston Street* 

37 Chowringhco. 

31 Chow nglieo Road. 

2 Fairlie Place*. 

4 Fairlie* Place. 

4 Bankshall Street. 

Iff Hare Stre*et. 

Gillander House, Netaji 
Subhas Road 
2 Metcalfe Street 
P-13 Mission Row 
Extent sion. 

30 Park Street. 

0 Western Stree t . 

17 Chittaranjan Avenue 
15, Strand Road 
63 Netaji Subhas Road. 

13 Rajendra Nath 
Mukhcrjee Road. 

21 Netaji Subhas Road. 

2 Metcalfe Street . 

E R,y House. 

23B, Netaji Subhas Road 
ff Netaji Subhas Road. 

8 Council House Street 
39 Sankar Chose Lane 
Chartered Bank Bldgs 
33 Netaji Subhas Road 
31 Chowringhco Road. 

31 Chow ringhee Road. 

31 Chowringhee Road 

3 Strand Road. 

39 Shankar Ghose Lane 
2 Fairlie Place 


31 Dalhousee Square. 

2 Medtcalfe Street. 

21 Nataji Subhas Road. 
/ 3 Strand Road 



Name. 


No. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or pj. 

buKim-* 


Taragi, J S 

Taraporvala, Minoo Cooverji 
Taylor, A J 
Tailor, Donald James 
Sellis, G A 

Tewari, Anil Baran, ma 
Tiaoari, B P B 
Thakar, A S, MA (E Con) 
Thomas, Abraham, MSe 
Thomas, Kenneth James 
Thomas, Matthew 
Thomas, Veembu Katlu Abraham 
Thomas, X K, BA,BCom, CA . 

Thompson, Arther James 
Thompson, JAW.. 

Thornton, Anthony William 


Tims, Alpan Joseph 
Thorpe, Leonard Horace, use 
(Punjab) 

Tiruvadainaruthur, R V, BA 
(Hons). 

Tiwari, B, BA 
Tocher, J W 
Tod, AW 
Townshend, D W 
Tripathi, Amalesh, ma, llb, am, 
PHD 

Tucker, C I) 

Turner, William Selwyn 


Asstt, James Warren & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Macneill & Barry Ltd 
Asstt, James Warren & Co Ltd 
Sanitary Engr, Mack i nosh Burn Ltd 
Office Asstt, Registration, Imperial Tobacco Co In- 
dia Ltd. 

Prof, Surendranath College 
Hd Asstt, State* Bank of India 

Officer, Karam ("hand Thappar & Bros Pte Ltd . . 

Prof, St Xavier's College 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace Co Ltd 

Asstt, Balmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 

Acctt, Balmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 

Asstt Acctt, A & J Main & Co Ltd 

Officer on Special Duty, Jessop & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Macneill & Barry Ltd 
Asstt Acctt, National & Grindlays Bank Lid 
(Lloyds Branch). 

Asstt, Share Dept, Indo-Burmah Petroleum Co Ltd 
Asstt to Manager, Associated Electrical Industries 
(India), Ltd 

Asstt, Acetts Dept, India Genl Navigation & Rly 
Co Ltd. 

Asstt, Iron & Steel Controller 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Sub-Acctt, The Chartered Bank 
Asstt, J Thomas & Co Pte Ltd 

Asstt Professor, Presidency College 


31 Chowrinuh e( . p 
2, Fair lie Place ^ 
31 Chowringh n . u 
8 Netaji Subh.u j { ‘ 
37 Ohowring}„ v 

24 Harrison U ( ] 

3 Strand Ro.ul 
25 Brabourite h„ ;i( i 

30 Park Sturt 
4, Badkshall Strut 
21 Netaji 8ul)l»as ] 
21 Netaji Sublm* H 
16 Netaji Subhasii, 
Cal-1 

63 Netaji Nubbin fc 
2 Fairlie Place 
29 Netaji Nubhas It 

Gilhmdei Hun M 
6, Mission Row 

4 Fairlie Place 

33 Netaji SuMia.s 1 
4 Clive Row. 

4 Netaji Nubh US It 
8 Mission I*o\\ 
86-1, College Street 


Asstt, Kilburn & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Macneill & Barry Ltd 


2 Fairlie Place. 
2 Fairlie Place 


U 

Udeslii Vi jay Singh Chainpashi, 
B Com, LLB 
Utihala, Pestonji 
Underwood, U 
llnni Nayar, M K, 


Asstt, Scindia Steam Nav Co, Ltd 

ln-charge of G A Dept, Hindusthan Li ver Ltd 
Asstt, Shalimar Paint (Colour & Varnish Co Ltd 
Sr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 


33 Netaji Nubli.u 1 

I & 3 Ih’aluiunic I! 
6 Loyos Italic 
4 Faii’ln* Place 


V 

Vakil, KM 

Vaislmav, A C, BCom 
Vallint, L D 
Varghese, V V 

Varma, BN 

Varma, Jagadish Chandra. 

Varma, M K D 
Varma, V R, ba, llb 
Varma, Rabinder 

Varshneya, Jagdish Shoran, Moom, 
LLB 

Vasudeva, Nandlal 
Vemban, V S, MSc 
Veitch, C 
Vembu, NS 

Venkata Krishnan, NS, MA, LLB, 
BF.CWA 

Venkataraman, A, BSc (Eng) 
Venkataraman, Nataranjan, MA, 
BL 

Venkataramanan, S S 
Venkateswarian, Nilkantan 
Venkit, M N 

Venn, Gouravaram 
Venugopal, S, BL 
Verghese, Thomas 


Sr Acetts Officer (Ve), E Rly 
Asstt, Bank of Baroda Ltd 
Asstt, Turner Morrison & (Pte) Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Macneill & Barry Ltd 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson, Ltd 
Asstt, Balmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Asstt, J Thomas & Co Pte Ltd 
Officer, Karam Chand Thapar & Bros 
Sr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co, Ltd 
Staff Assistant, State Bank of India 

Gr. Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd . . 
Prof St, Xavier’s College 
Asstt Supdt, Bengal Chamber of Commerce 
A P 0, E Rly 

Asstt, Jardine Henderson, Ltd 

Engr, English Electric Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Bird & Co (Pte) Ltd 

Dist Controller of Stores, E Rly 
Asstt, Bird & Heilgers 
Asstt, James Finlay & Co Ltd 
Accountant, Mackintosh Burn, Ltd 
Asstt, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 
Construction Engineer, CESC Ltd 


E Rly House. 
India Hxelnm^e ('a. 
6 Lyons Range 
2 Fairlie Place. 

4, Clive Row 
21 Netaji SiilihnH 

8 Mission llo\\. 
25, Brabournelid 
4 Fairlie Place 
3, Strand Road 


4 Fairlie Plan* 

30 Park Street 
6 Netaji Subhas K» 

E Rly Hmue 
4, Clive Row 


D-3, Gil lander 

Chartered Bank B 



Names. 


45 


Wrtaunes, G W S 
Yesuvala, D N, MA . . 

Vibart, George Meredith 
Vidyarthi, Ram Dularay, ma, 
b com, PHD, (Econ) 

Viji Vaduvur Sundaram, BSc, FCA 

Viswanatb, Nateson 
Yiswanathan, N, MA 
Yiswanathan, P, BSc, BCom 
Yiswanathan, T 
Vlasto, Michael 
Vohra, Madal Lall 

W 

Watlsl ay, MI 
Wada, G S 

YVngle, G M, MA, CAIIB 
Wahi, HD 
Walker, R. S. 

Wallace, Donald Bruce 
Wallace, J. M. 

Walton, J M 
Walsh, E J 
David, Frank 
Watson, Donald Ross 
Watson, J P 

Whit, chouse, Henry Frederick 

Whitman, John 
Whitworth, Robert John Eve 
Wickens, J 
WilcoHe, R W 

Wilson, F S 
Wilson, N J M 
Will, (MN 

William, Henry Gardiner Baird . . 

Williamson, Patrick Hay 

Wilson, I C 

Willis, Eric Gordon 

Winsor-Oundeil, M ('J 

Winter, Joseph Robson 

\\ oul, N E 

Woods, W G 

Woodward, Ii S 

Wool lain, W G 

Wright, E J 

Writer, M J 
Wykle, D E 
Wynd, Phillip 

Y 

YiuUva, Ramhit, BCom 
i a Jnik, A. S. f MCom 
^anhag, Toon 
v oun g» Hugh Richardson 
' J A D 
Y(| ung, SR 

z 

i» ® a ijid Kishoar Hussain 
4a ckana, SR 


Style or calling. 

Mangr, T & D Dept, James Warren & Co Ltd 
Indian Officer, Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corpn 
Genl Mangr Heatley & Grasham Ltd 
Asstt Secretary, Indian Chamber of Commerce 

Secy, Williamson Magor & Co, Ltd 

Mains Engr, C E S C, Ltd 

Prof, St Xavier’s College 

A A C, D A G, P & T Office 

Asstt, T & D Dept James Warren & Co Ltd 

Mangr, Rallis India Ltd 

Progress Officer, Jessop & Co, Ltd 


Asstt, Place, Siddons & Gough (Pte) Ltd 

Asstt Aectt, Imperial Tobacco Co Ltd 

Asstt Acctt, R B of India 

Asstt, Maeneill <fc Barry Ltd 

Asstt, Bird & Heilgers 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co, Ltd 

Director, J Thomas & Co Pte Ltd 

Asstt Stores Manager, Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 

Asstt , Turner Marrison & Co Ltd 

Director, Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 

Mg Director, Sinclair, Murray & Co Pte Ltd 

Merketting Controller, Lipton (lnd) Ltd 

Director, Gladstone Lyall & Co, Ltd 

Sr, Asst, Gladstone Lyall & Co, Ltd 
Mangr, Harrisons & Cros field Ltd 
Administrative, Guest Keen Williams Ltd 

Asstt, Minerals Dept, Bird & Co Pte Ltd 

Engr, International Combustion (India) Pte Ltd 

Asstt, J Thomas & Co Pte Ltd 

Asstt, Macniell & Barry Ltd 

Managing Director, Octavius Steal & Co Ltd 

Mg Director, Williamson Magor & Co Ltd 

Sub-Aectt, The Chartered Bank 

Director, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 

Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 

Asstt, Balmer Lawrie & Co Ltfl 

Asstt, Maekneill & Barry 

Br Acctt, Imperial Tobacco Co Ltd 

Actg Chief Manager's Asstt, Lloyds Bank Ltd 

Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 

Asstt, Norwich Union Fire Insurance Society Ltd . . 

Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Asstt Op Supdt, Eastern Railway 
Asstt, Bird & Heilgers 


Asstt, Allahabad Bank Ltd 

Accounts Asstt, Thomas Dufi & Co (India) Pte Ltd 

Asstt Engr, B B & J Construction & Co Ltd 
Secy, Alfred Herbert (India) Private Ltd 
Asstt, Turner Marrison & Co Ltd 
Mercantile Asstt, Mackizon Maekcnino & Co 


. Asstt, Balmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
. Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 


Residence or place of 
business. 

31 Chowringhee Roud. 
31 Dalhousie Square. 

31 Chitt&ranjan Avenue 
23B Netaji Subhas Road 

4 Mangoe Lane 
Victoria House 

30 Park Street. 

7 Koilaghat Street. 

31 Chowringhee ltoad. 

16 Hare Street 

63, Netaji Subhas Road 


6 Lyons Range. 

37 Chowringhee. 

8 Council House Street. 

2 Fairlie Place. 

Chartered Bank Building 
4 Bank shall St 
8 Mission Row 
2 Metcalfe Street. 

6 Lyons Range. 

2 Metcalfe Street, 

14 India Exchange Place 
i) Weston Street. 

4, Fairlie Place 

4, Fairlie Place 
6 Church Lane 
41 Chowringhee 

Chartered Bank Build- 
ings. 

101 Park Street 
8 Mission Row. 

2 Fairlie Place. 

14 Old Court House St. 

4 Mangoe Lane. 

4 Netaji Subhas Road. 
37 Chowringhee 
4 ( -live Row. 

21 Netaji Subhas Road 
2 Fail he Place 
37 Chowringhee. 

29 Netaji Subhas Road 
4 Clive Row. 

B4 Gil landers House, 8 
Netaji Subhas Road 
4 Clive Row 
Eastern Railway House 
Chartered Bank Buildings 


14 India Exchange Place 
3 Clive Row 
P-13 Mission Row Extn. 
13/3 Strand Road 
6 Lyons Range. 

16 Strand Road. 


21 Netaji Subhas Road. 
4 Clive Row. 


S. a BAN ERJEE, 

Clerk of the State 



40 


Common Jury List 


List of persons liable to service on Common Juries in the High Court at Calcutta 
far the year ensuing from 1st May 1962 pursuant to Act V of 1898. 


Remarks —Errors in names and descriptions oan be oorreotod on communication to the office of the Clerk of 
State before ihe publication of the revised list on 26th April 1902 Any person who deems himself lor any „ 
wrongly included in the list should on or before the 18th April 1962 address the Clerk of the State on the m.bjot a 

revised list will bo final. 


No. Names. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place 
business. 


A 


Abraham, K K, MA 
Acharya, Kalipada, MA, BT 
Acharji, Manindra Lai, BA 
Adak, Jatindra Nath, Mcora, BL 
Adhikarv, Animosh Ch, BSC 
Adhikary, Bibhuti Bhusan, MA . . 
Adhikary, Haradhan, Brom 
Adhikari, Manindra Chandra, BSc 

Adhikary, Matilal, ma 
Adhikary, Nitya Gopal, BA 
Adhikary, Saktiprasad, ma 
Adhikari, Sudhir Ran j an, ma, bt 


U D C, D A G, P & T 

Asstt., Master, Scottish Church Collegiate School 
UDC, DAG, P&T 
Clerk, Tata Iron & Stool Co, Ltd. 

UDC, DAG, P&T 
Ditto 

Asstt, Land and Land Revenue Department 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Asstt, I T office, W. Bengal 

Clerk B, CESCLtd 

Auditor, A-G, WB 

Asstt Master, Hindu School 


Agarwal, Surajprokash, BA 
Ahemed, Tufi'ail, ba 
Aiyah, V, BSC 
Akhtar, Jamil, MA 
Ali, Md Hossain, BA 


. . Acctt., A-G, Bengal 

Inspector, Collection Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 
. . Asstt., Acctt. Dept, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 
. . UDC, Telegraph Check Office 
Ditto 


7 Koilaghal St root 
73 Cornual I is Stmt 
7, Koilaghat Stm t 

23B, Netaji Sul > has 
7, Koilaghat Street 
Ditto 

Writers* Buildings 

Treasury Buildings 

P-7 Chowringliee ,S 

Victoria House 

Treasury Building 

IB, Bank i m Chat' 
Street 

Treasury Buildings 
5, S N Bailor | ct* Kc 
31 Chowringliee lt<> 
33 Dalhousie Ncjiiar 
Ditto 


B 

Bagchi, Amal Kumar, msc 

Bagchi, Bhuhan Molian, BSC 
Bagchi, Jogosh Ch, ba 
Bagchi, Paresh Ch, BSC 
Bagchi, Paritosh, Boom 
Bagchi, Rishindra Nath, BSc 
Bagchi, Satyabrata, ma, bl 
Bagchi, Si tosh Chandra, BCom . . 
Bagchi, Mohit Kumar, ma, llb ... 
Bajaj, Krishna Kumar, ba 
B akar, J Abu, BCOM 
Bal , Nirode Chandra, Boom 
Bala, Anil Kr., ba 
Bajasubramanian, S R, BA (Hons) 
Banerjee, A B, BSC 

"lWflTi Mlti TttirVTtTHTTl _ - 


J D Clerk, Office of the Ch Auditor, Eastern 
Railway 

Senior Assistant, Education Directorate 
Sr. Asstt, Education Directorate 
UDC, Office of I T 

Asstt, Stewarts & Lloyds of India Private Ltd 

U DC , I T office, W Bengal 

Asst, Adm. office, Geological Survey of India 

U D C, D A G, P & T 

Auditor, A-G, WB 

Acctt, A-G, WB 

UDC, Office of the Commissioner of Income Tax 
L D Asstt, Iron & Steel Control 
U D C, I T offioe, West Bengal Dt 1(1) 

Acctt., D A G, P & T 
UDC, DAG, P&T 
Store Gtorik. Williamson Manor & Co 


16, Strand Road 

Writers’ Budding* 
Writers’ Building*’ 1 
33 Netaji Sublms 

41, Chowringhee Bo 

3 Govt. Place West 
27, Chowringhee 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Build" 1 -' 
Treasury Builds 
p_13 ( 'he'U'ingli" 
33, Netaji Subhof ® 
3 Govt, naoe 

7 Koilaghat Street 
7 Koilaghat Stn* 1 



47 


Names. 


Style or calling. 


Reeidenoe or place of 
business. 


uierjee, Ajit Kumar, MA 
morjee, Ajit Kumar, Boom 
■jnorjee, Ajit Kumar, BA 

|iner jce, Akshoy K, B COM 
ancTjeo, Amal Chandra, BA 
ianerjee, Amal Chandra, BSC . . 
lanorji, Amal Kumar, Boom 
Uierjee, Ajit Lai, BA 
lanerjce, Amur Chand, BSC 
■kinerjee, Amiya Kumar, ma, bl ... 


Asstt., Teacher, Oriental Seminary 
Auditor, A-G, WB 

UDC, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 

U D C, 1) A G, P & T 
V D C, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 

Hd, Asstt, Geological Survey of India 
Clerk, State Bank of India 

Asstt, Secy, (Exam) Board of Secondary Education 
Sub Head, T A Office E Rly 
Office Mngr, Avery & Co 


336 Upper Chitfuir ltoad 
Treasury Buildings. 

32 Dalhousie Square, 
South 

7 Koilaghat Street 

32 Dalhousie Square 
South 

27 Chowringhee 
Queen’s Mansions 
77/2 Park Street 
E 

Avery House, Waterloo 
Street. 


[{auorjoe, Amiya Kr, MCom 
Piim rji, Amitava, BOom 
Buncrjoc, Amulya Kr, BA 
Banerjee, Anil Chandra, Boom . . 
Banerjee. Anil Kumar, BOom . . 
|tsvm*rji. Anil Kumar, Boom 
Bauor ji, Anil Kumar, I, ms.: 

B.'inorji, A run, ba 
Bauer joe, Ashutosh, ba (com) 
Bauerjee, A shim Kumar, MCom 
Bauerjee, Asia Kumar, BSC 
Bauer ji, Asoke Kr, ma 
Batierji, Asoke, bhc (III) 

Biuierjee, Ashoke Nath, BA . • 


Sub Head E, Rly 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
Sub Head E Rly 

IT D Asstt, Medical Br. Health Dept 
IJ 1) 0, Telegraph Check Office 
Asstt, Stewarts and Lloyds Ltd 

Clerk, Accts Dept, Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co 
Private Ltd 

Clerk, Gr IT, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
IT DC, 1)AG,P&T 

IT D ( /, Office of the Commissioner of Income Tax 
U D Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Field Inspector, Slate Trading Corpn of India Ltd 


Banorj i, B C, BRe BL 
Bauerjee, Balaram, BCJoni 
Baucrjee, Balaram Chandra, BA 
Banerjee, Bejoy Ranjan, BA 
Bauer jee, Benoy Beliari, BA 
Bauerjee, Benay Beliari, ba 
Bauerji, B, BSe 

Bailor ji, Bhajan K, brc (Distn) . 

Banerjee. Bibhuti Bbusau, BA . 

Bauorjc‘e, Bibhuti Chandra, ba . 

Bancrji, Bijoli Bh, ba 

Bauerjee, Bimal Kumar, BA 

Bauerjee, Birendra Kumar, BA, 
BT 

bauerjee, Birendra Nath, BSC 
Banorj i, Bireswar, bsc, Boom 
Banerjee, Bishnupnda, BCom 
B e »erji j Biswanath, ma (com) 
Bauerjee, Biswanath, M Com 
Bauerjee, Biswaranjan 
bancrji, Chandi Pada 
Bauerjee, Chittaranjan 
Banorj ee, Chittaranjan, MSC 
*•***», dk, bso 
Banerjee, Debidas, BSC 


Asstt Su]>dt, Tea Board 

Inspector, Collection Dept, Corpn ol Calcutta 

Clerk, C P O S Office, E Lly 

Auditor, A G Bengal 

Clerk, Grade Tl, Reserve Bank of India 

U D Asstt, Education Dept 

Asstt, Imperial Chemical Industries Private Lid 

IJ D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 

Asstt, University of Calcutta 

Suptd (Exn), Board of Secondary Education 

U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office, 

U D C, I) A G, P & T 
Asstt. Master, Hindu School 

Clerk A, C E S C, Ltd 
U D Clerk, Tea Board 
U D C, Telegraph Check Office 
Clerk, Kilbum & Co Private Ltd 
U D C, D A G, P & T 
. U D C, D A G, P & T 

Hd Clerk, Macneill & Barry, Ltd 
U D C, Office of the Commissioner of Income Tax 

Acctt., D A G, P & T 

. L D Clerk, Tea Board 
. UDC, DAG, PAT 


Eastern Rly House 
8, Council House Street 
Eastern Rly House 
Writers* Buildings 
33 Dalhousie Square 
41 Chowringhee l*d 
16, Strand Road 

8, Council House Street 
8, Council House Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 
3 Govt. Place West 
Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 

32 Dalhousie Square 
South 

:>7 & 26 Brahourne Rd 
5, S. N. Banerjee Road. 

17 Netaji Subhas Road 
Treasury Buildings 
8, Council House Street 
Writers’ Buildings. 

34 ( ’howringiiee 
7, Koilaghat Street 
Senate House 
77-2 Park Street. 

. 7, Koilaghat Street. 

7 Koilaghat Street 

IB Bankim Chatlerjee 
Street 

Victoria House 
27 & 29 Brahourne Road 
33 Dalhousie Square 
. 4, Fairlie Place 

. 7 Koilaghat Street 

7 Koilaghat Street 
. 2, Fairlie Place 

P-7 Chowringhee Hq r 
. 7 Koilaghat Street 

27 & 29 Brahourne Raod 
7 Koilaghat Street 



No. 


Names. 


Banerjee, Debkumar, BA 
Banerjee, Pebi Prosad, msc 

Banerjee, Phircndra Lai, BSC 
(Dwt) 

Banerjee, Dhirendra Nath, ba . . 
Banerji, Dilip Kumar, BCon. 
Banerjee, Pilip Kumar, BSC 
Banerjee, Pipti Sankar, BSC 

Banerjee, Pwipendra Narayan 
Banerjee, Copal Chandra, BSC . 
Banerji, Gopi Jiban, ba (Pistn) . 
Banerji, Guru Prowul, ma 
B anerji, Haradhan, ba 
Banerji, Hari Bhuaan, bsc 
Banerjee, Hari Har, bsc 

Banerjee, Hemondra Nath, MOom 
Banerjee, Hirendra Nath, ba 
B anerjee, Hironmoy, ba 
Banerjee, Jayanta Kumar, BA . 
Banerjee, Jiban Krishna 
Banerji, Jiianabrata, BCom 
Banerjee, Janardan, BA,BT 

Banerji, Jitasankar, ba 
Banerjee, Kalipada 
Banerjee, Kanmlapati, BA 

Banerjee, Keshab Chandra, MA 
(Com) 

Banerjee, Khetra Gopal, ma 
Banerji, Kish or i Lai, ba 
B anerji, Krislmadas, MCom 
Banerjee, Loknath, BSC 

Banerjee, Madan Mohan, BSC 
Banerjee, Malay Kumar, brc 
Banerji,* Manick Ch, ba 
Banerjee, Mohan Gopal, BA 
Banerji, Mrintunjoy, BSC 
Banerji, Nadialal, ba, bt 
Banerjee, Nandadulal, BA 

Banerji, Nani Gopal 
Banerji, Nandalal, BA 
Banerjoe, Nandadulal, BA 
Banerji, Naresh Ch, ba 
Banerjee, Nihar It an j an 
Banerjee, Niranjan H, BSC 
Banerjee, Nirmal Kumar, MA 
Banerji, Nirmal Ch, Bcx>m 
Banerjee, Nirmalendu, bsc 
Banerji, Nkmalendu, ba 
Banerji, Nirupam, BA 
Banerjee, Nishitendu, MA 
Banerji, Nitai Ch, bsc 


48 


Style or calling. 


ltesidenoe or 

busineaa. ( 


Asstt., University of Calcutta 
Auditor, A-G*s Office, West Bengal 
Inspector of Income Tax, Office of the Commissioner 
of I T 

Auditor, A-G, WB 
Asstt, Lovelock & Lewis 

U P C, D A G, P & T 

Inspector of Income Tax, Office of the Commissioner 
of I T 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Auditor, A-G, WB 
U P Clerk, 1) A-G, P & T Offioo 
U P Clerk, P A-G, P & T Office 

U I) Clerk, P A-G, P & T Office 

U D Clerk, P A-G, P & T Office 

Jr Hd Asstt, Medical Br. Health Dept. 


Senate House 
Treasury Buildj ngs 

P-7 ChowriuRhot. Sq, 

Treasury Building* 

4 Lyons Range 
7 Koilaghat Street 

P-7 ChowringheeXqu 

4 Bankshall Street. 
Treasury Buildings. 
7, Koilaghat, Street 
7, Koilaghat Street 
7, Koilaghat Street 
7, Koilaghat Street 
Writers* Buildings 


U P C, I T Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G, WB 

Hd Cl, Collection Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 
U P C, P A G, P & T 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 

Asstt, Imperial Chemical Industries Private* Ltd . . 
Asstt. Master, Hindu School 

Clerk, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
Asstt., Directorate of Agriculture 

Inspector of Income Tax, Office of the Commissioner 

of I T 

U PC, Telegraph Check Office 


3, Govt. Piano West. 
Treasury Buildings. 
5, S. N. Banerjeo Stn 
7 Koilaghat Street 

4, Bankshall Street. 

34 CliON I lliirlire 

IB Bnnknn Cli;itirT]i 
St rent 

10, Netnji SuMwisl! 
Writers' Buildmi!' 
P-8 Brahnurm 1 haul 

33 Palhoiisn Stjnare 


Acctt, A-G, WB 

Supdt. Geological Survey of India 
Auditor, A-G*s Office 
IT P C, State Trading Copn of India Ltd 


Treasury Building. 
27, Chowrmghee 
Trensiin Minldin^ 

32 Palhoiihie SijtiHif 
South 


U D C, P A G, P & T 
Auditor, A-G, WB 
Clerk, Gr 1, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt., Agricultural Marketing, West Bengal 
Supdt, Stationery Office 
Asstt Master, City Collegiate School 
Judl. Hd Asstt., Commissioner's Office, Presidency 
Division, West Bengal 
Asstt Master, Hindu School 
Clerk B, C E S C, Lid 
Asst t., University of Calcutta 
U P Clerk, P A-G, P & T Office 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
IJ P L PA G, P & T 
U I) C\ P A G, P & T 
Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 
U P C, I T Office, West Bengal 
Aoott. P A-G, P & T Office 
H C, Stationery Office 
UPC, State Trading Corpn of India 
L P Clerk, Government of India Stationery Office 
ITT PHH Tfll'e^aioh Check Office 


nt Street 
Buildup- 
i House St 
kidding 
t banc 
Shi Strict 
Subha*' ft 

in ChatW 


Street 

St^ 

•{trcct 



HUM*. 


jtancrji. Nripendr* N, MCom . . 
haiierjee, Nripendra Nath, MA . . 
par^rji, Pabitra K, Boom 
lianerji, Panchanan, bsc (Hons). . 

I 

Banorji, Parameswar, Boom 
p alirr jtv, Pareshnat h , Mdoin 

Banerji, Paritosh, MA 
Banci jec, Partha Sarathi, Mcorn 
norji , Patit Paban, ba . . 

Banerji, Pranab Kalyan, BOom . . 
banerjiw, Pranab Kumar, 15< -om 
^anerjee, Prasad, ba . • 

biinrrjcr. Promodc Kumar, 15 A . . 


Janorji, Prosanta Kr., Boom. 

Junerjee, Purnendu, bsc 
J anrrjeo, Rabindra Nath, ba 
J anorji, Rabindranath, ba 

iaiKTjoc, Ramohandra, ma 
Jancrji, Ram Chandra, ba 
biu'rji, Ramhari, ba 

Janrrji, llamcsh Chandra, ba 
(Hons) 

tanorjcc, Uameswar, BSC- 
litiKMjot', Ram Ranjan, 15 A 
inner jee, Kan j an Kr, RA 
inner ji, ltohati Mohan, ma, bl 

aiicrjoc, S C, BSC 

anorji, Saolnndra Nath, ba 


auerjcc, Sambhu Nath, MA 
ftniTji, Samir, bsc 
anerji, S K, ba 


fl'iK r.jcf' Sambhu Nath, BSC 


|anerji, Sanat Kumar, bsc 

••'aunt. Kumar, BSC . . 
6n, ' r i'> Simjit Kr, bsc 
knerjcc, Sankar Kumar, msc . . 

Sankari Prouad, BA . . 
P'rjee, Saulosh Kumar, MA . . 


aner ji, iSaradiudu, ma 

ftller ji, Saroj Kumar, BSC 
tr j ee> Sarojo Kumar, booiu . . 


kllcr | w ’ Kumar, BSC 
“ ler ii, Karat Chandra 
““ er iec. Katya Gopal, BSC 
I W)ee > Satya Ranjan, lose 

taer| l J e 8 ^ endra Mohan - M 
I , Satyendra Nath, B, 

BcJm’ Sat y en dra Prosann. 

fefc diaNath - Bi 

W - Sh ’bKrtohna f >4 


49 

Style or palling. 

Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 

Asstt., Teacher, Bangabasi College School 

Clerk, Gr IT, Reserve Bank of India , . 

Clerk, Telegraph Check Offioe 

Clerk, Williamson Magor & Co Ltd 
Sr. Asstt., Board of Secondary Education 
IT D Clerk, 1> A-G, F & T Office 
Auditor, A. -CPs Offioe, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
L I) Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept 
IT IMS, DAd.PAT 
Acctt, A-G, WB 

Asstt., West Bengal Provincial Co-operative Bank 
Clerk, Allahabad Bank Ltd 

Inspector, F. S Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 
U D C , I T Office, West Bengal 

Sec. In-charge Directorate of Registration, West 
Bengal. 

Sr. Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G s Offioe, West Bengal 
Clerk, Grade 1 1 , Reserve Bank of India 

IT D C, Education Directorate 
IT D C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
Clerk B, C E S C Ltd 

U D Asstt, Animal Husbandry A Vetenary Services 
Dept. 

Chemist, W B Public Health Laby 
Asstt, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
Asstt., Teacher, Oriential Seminary 
Accountant, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Inspector, Tea Board 
U D G, DAG.P&T 
Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 

S. G. Clerk, State Trading Corpn of India 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G, W B 

Actt, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 
Teacher, Surcndra Natli Collegiate School 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A.-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Hd. Clerk, Administrator Genl and Offl Trustee, 
West Bengal. 

U D C, Telegraph Check Office 

Asstt, Martin Burn, Ltd 
U D C, Telegraph Check Office 
Examiner, Stationery Offioe 
Teacher, Scottish Church Collegiate School 
U D C, D A G, P to T 

Asstt, Law (Judicial) Dept * • 

Clerk, Grade I, fceeerve Bank o* India 

Ckrk, Grade I, Beeerre Bank of Ikdla 


Residence or plaoe of 
business. 

7, Koilaghat Street 
8/1 Santosh Mitra Sqr 

8, Council House Street 

33, D&lhousio Square 
South . 

4 Mango© Lane 
77/2 Park Street 

7, Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings. 
Treasury Build mgs 
Writers* Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings. 

1(5 Old Court House 
Street. 

Allahabad Bank 

Buildings. 

5, S. N. Banerjee Road. 

3, Govt Place West. 
Writers* Buildings 

77-2 Park Street. 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 

8, Council House Street 

Writers’ Buildings 
33 Dalhou.sie Square 
Victoria House 
Writers’ Build mgs 

Chittaranjan Avenue 
10 Netaji Su bints Road 
336 Upper Chit pur Rd 
Treasury Buildings 
27 & 29 Braboiune Road 
7 Koilaghat Street 

6 Church Lane 

32 Dalhousie Sq. South 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings. 

32 Dalhousie Nq South 
24/2 Mahatma Gandhi 

Rd 

Treasury Buildings 

Treasury Buildings 
1, Hastings Street, 10th 
Floor, Calcutta. 

33 Dalhousie Square 
12 Mission Row 

33 Dalhousie; Square 
3 Church Lane 
73, Cornwallis Street 

7 Koilaghat Street 
Writers Bldgs 

8, Couni j 1 House Street 

Bi Cottneil Houee Street 



tfV 



Banerjee, Shyam Madhab, BA 
Banerji, Shibendra Nath, Mcom . . 

Banerjee, Sitalaprosad, BA 
Banerjee, Somondra Nath, MA . . 
Banerji, Somnath, ba 
Banerji, Stibarna, bsc 

Banerjee, Subhas Chandra, Boom, 
Banerji, Subhas Chandra, MA 
Banerjee, Kueharu, BSC 
Banerjee, Sudhanshu Kumar, BA 

Banerji, Sudhir Kr, BSe 
Banerjee, Sukhomoy, BCom 
Banerji, Sukumar, ma 

Banerji*!*, Sunil Kumar, BCom . . 
Banerjee, Sushil Chandra, BA 
Banerji, Swaraj Kumar, ma 
B anerjee, Tarak Nath BCom 
Banerjee, Tarapada, Boom 
Banik, N, mso 
B ar at, Biawadeb, BA 

Bardhan, Benoy Ran j an, MCom 
LLB 

Barman. Nirmal Chand. BA 
Barman, Kanta Charan, ba 
Barori, Narayan Chandra, BCom 
Barma, A soke Ranjan, use 
Barua, Nihar Baran, ba 
Barua, Suilhansu Bunal, MA 
Banirv, Kumud Ranjan, BA 
Basak, Amulya Kumar, bsc 
Baaak, Anup Kumar 
Basak, (Jour ( j-opal 
Basak, Jaladhar, ma 
B asak, Naha Kumar, Boom 
Basak, Nanda Gopal, ba 

B;isak, Nandalal, BSC 
Basak, Nirmal Kanti, MCom 
Basak, Nityagopal, MA 

Basak, Sailendra Nath, ba 
Basak, Shib Narayan, BRe 
Basak, Sudhindra L, BCoiu 
Basu, A. K., ma 
Basu A jit, bsc (Dist.) 

Bam, A jit K, 11, bsc 
Basu, Ajit K, ba 
B asu, Ajit Kumar, BSC 
Basu, Ajit K ba 

Basu, Amal Kumar, BCom 
Basu, Arnalendu. BSC 

Basu, Amalendra N, bsc 

Basu, Arriar Nath, BA 

Basu, Anadi Ranjan, BSC, BCom 

Basu, Anil Chandra, ba 

Basu, Anil Kumar, Boom 

Basu, Ardhendu Bhusan, BA,LLB 

Basu, Arun Bikash, bsc 
Basu, Arun Narayan, Boom 


Auditor, A-G, WB 

Clerk, Ac/s Dept, Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co. 

Private Ltd. 

Acctt, I) A G, P & T 
Sr. Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
U D Clerk, Toa Board 

U D Asstt, Home Deptt (Poll C. R.) 

Auditor, A-G's Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, B, C E K C Ltd 

Officer, Central Bank ol India Ltd (New Market 
Branch) 

U D Clerk, Government of India Stationery Office 
Asstt, L A Branch, Land & Land Rev. Dept 
U D Clerk, Tea Board 

U D 0, D A G, V & T 

Hd. Asstt., Geological Survey of India 

Auditor, AGWB 

U D C, Telegraph (-heck Office 

Inspector, Collection Department, Cal. Oorpn. 

Asstt, Stationery Office 

Field Inspector, Gi\ 2, State Ti ailing Corpn ol l mb a 
Ltd. 

Ins, I T Office 


Treasury Building, 
16, Strand Bead 

7 Koilaghat .Street 
77-2, Park Street 
7, Koilaghat Street 

2 Lad & “* ** 

Writers’ Buildup 
Treasury TSuilrtings 
Victoria Hoiirp 
10 Lindt. ay Str^i 


3, Church i jruiB 
Writers’ BuiMjr^ 

27 & 29 , Brahouae 
Road 

7 Koilaghat Siren 
27 Chowringli<’(. 
Treasury Biuldm a 
33 DallioiiMc Sf|ii; 1!f 
f>, S. N. Bancrjcr J| 
3. Church Lane 

32 Dalhousic Sijiijui 
South 

P-S Brahounie Ikat 


UDC, l) A (J, PAT 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Clerk B, C ESC, Ltd 

Actt, A-G’s Office, West- Bengal 

U D C, I T Office, West Bengal 

Asstt.. Teacher, St. Xavier s Co llrgialt- Srli.H.l . 

Aoctts Supdt, Geological Survey ol India. 

Inspector Sr, C E S C, Ltd 
Asstt, Directorate of Agricult ure 
Asstt, Directorate 4 ol Agriculture 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G, WB 
Accountant, All -India Radio 

Foreman Gr 2, C E S C Ltd 
IT D C , I T Oil ice 

See. Hd, Life Insurance Corpn of India. Oriental 
Govt, Security Life Assurance Co 
Supdt (Exn), Board of Secondary Education 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
IT D C, Telegraph Check Office 
Asstt, Imperial Chemical Industries, Ltd 
Inspector, F 8 Dept, Corpn of Calcutta. . 

Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
U D Clerk, D>-G, P & T Office 
Acctt, A G Bengal 

Asstt, West Bengal Provincial Co-operative Bank . . 

Asstt Adm Officer, Geological Survey ot India 
Demonos, Surendra Nath College 

U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept 
Hd. Clerk, Commerce & Industries Dept 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U D C, I T Office, West Bengal 
UDC, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 

Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 
Clerk-Typist, State Bank of India 


7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 
Victoria Houm- 
Treasury Building 
P-8 Brafnimie Itwi 
.‘>0 Paris Si km 'I 
27 Chownnulier 
Victoria House 
Writers* Building 
W riters BiuJdiii^. 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
All India Radio, E 
Garde n. 

Victoria House 

33 Nctaji SuMicis Kd 
2 Clive Rm\ 

77-2 Park StroH. 

7, Koilaghat Ktrwt j 

33 Dalhonrtii' Square | 

34 Chowringliec 

5, S X Banerjcr ft* 
7, Koilaghat Stn* 
7, Koilaghat St.n-ct 
Treasury BmMin^ 
16 Old Court 
Street . 

27 Chowringher 
24-2 Maliatiaa 
Road . 

7, Koilaghat Stre^ 
Writers' Building 5 j 
4 f, Benesh Ch-& 

Treasury Build^ 

32 Dallu.nsie 

Konth • gnr.S 

33, Palhousw ^ 

Queen-, Mm*# 1, 



Names. 

J*aau, Asit Kumar, bsc 
Basil, Asoke Kumar, ma, bl 
Basu, Balai Chandra, BA- 
Rjisu, Bholanath, BSC 
Basu, Bidyut K, bsc 
Basu Bhabani Pr, BSC 
Basil, Bijoy K, ncorn 
Basu, Bircsh ran j an 
Basu, Bircswar, BA 
BaMi, Brindaban, BSC 
Basu, Charu Mihir, bsc 
Basu, Chinmay K, ma 
Basu, Ohittaranjan, BOotn 
Basu, Dakshina Charan, bsc 
Basu, Debrabrata, B('om 
Basu, Debidas, BA, LLB 

Basu, Dilip Kumar, bsc 
Basu, Dwarika Nath, Bcxmi 
Basil, Hemendra Nath, msc 
Basu, Hirendra Nath, MA,BT 
Basu, Jagadish Ch, Boom 
Basu, .lagadish Chandra, ma, bb 

Basu, Jugal Kishore, bsc 

Basu, Jyotirmoy, ma 

Basu. Jyotirindra Narayan, ba, 

JiLB. 

Basu, Knbindra Sokhar, BA 

Basu, Halidas, ba 

Basu, Kamakshya Prosad BA 

Basu, Karunamoy, Boom 
Basu, Kisliori Mohan, BA 
Basu, Krishna Kr, BCom 
Basu, Kshetra Mohon, ma 
Basu, Lalmohon, BA 
Basu, Makhanlal, Boom 
Basu, Mukul Kr, ma 
Basu, Naha Copal, Boom 
Basu, Nalini Kanjan, MA,BT 

Basu, Narayan Prosad, BSC 

basu. Naresh Kumar, ba 

Basu, Nirmal Kumar, ma 

basu, Nirmal K, ba 

basu Nityaranjan MCom 

basu, Nripati Nath, MA 

basu, Nrisingha P, Moom 

basu, Pabitra Kumar, ma, Boom 

basu, Prabhat Kr, ba 

basu, Promode Nath, BA 

basu, Promotha Kanjan, BSC . . 

basu, Pranab Kumar 

basu, Prasanta Kumar, bsc 

^asu, Ramesh Chandra, bsc 

Basu ’ b'amprosad, BCom 
Ba * u ’ b-anjit Kumar, bsc 
Rabindra Nath, ba 
a ‘ SU) Sachindra Nath 
J** 1 ' Sachindra Nath, bsc 
***’ Sa besh Chandra, MSC 


Style or oaUing. 

Auditor, A-G, W B 

Sr. Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
U D O, DAG.P&T 

II J) C, Office of the Commissioner of Income Tux 
IT 1) Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
U I) C, D A G, P & T 
Clerk, Gr 11, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Commerce & industries Dept 
Assistant, National Fire & G1 Inse Co, Ltd 
Sub Heart, E Klv 
l T D O, I T Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, Gr 1, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk Gr. II, Reserve Bank of India 
lii8j>eetor, Collection Dept, Oorpn of Calcutta 
C 1) C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
1 1 D (J, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 

II D Clerk, income Tax Office 
Clerk, Gr. II, Reserve Bank of India 
Examiner, Stationery Office 
Supdt, Geological Survey of India 
Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
Head Asstt, West Bengal Secretariat, Educat ion 
Department. 

Acctt, D A-G, P & T Office 
Clerk, Grade 11, Reserve Bank of India 
Sr. Clerk, Associated Electrical Industries (India) 
Ptc Ltd. 

Asstt, Agricultural Marketing, West. Bengal 
HD Clerk, IT Office 

Asstt, Land Acquisition Branch, Land & Land 
Rev. Depart. 

Clerk, Gr. I, Reserve Bank of India 
Sub Head, E Rly 
IT DC, Telegraph ('heck Office 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Asstt, University of Calcutt a 
IT D Asstt, Edu cation Department 
U I)C,1T Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G, W B 
Asstt Master, Hindu School 

L D Asstt, Health Dept (Medical Br) 

U I) C, Commissioner of Income Tax Office 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
U D C, I) A G, P & T 

Asstt Teacher, Metropqlition Institution (Mam) 

Clerk Gr II, Roserve Bank of India 

Auditor, Lovelock & Lewis 

Auditor, A-G*s Office, T F, West Bengal 

IT D C, D A G, P & T 

IJ 1) C, Office of the Commissioner of Income Tax 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
U D C, Income Tax Office 

Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

Auditor, A G Bengal 
U D C, I T Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G,WB 
Hd Clerk, Macneill & Barry, Ltd 
U D Asstt, Education Directorate 
Statistical Officer, Planning 6 Development Dept, 
Corpn of Calcutta 


Residence or place of 
business. 

Treasury Buildings 
77-2 Park Street, 

7 Koilaghat St reet 
P-7 Chowringhee Sqr. 

7, Koilaghat. St root 

7 Koilaghat St root 

S, Council House Strict 
Write! .*■>' Buildings 

Eastern Railway House 
b, Govt Place West, 

8, Council House St reet 
8, Council House Street 
f>, S. N. Bauer jee Road. 
Mb Dalhousic Square 

b2 Dalhousic Square 
South 

b. Govt Place, West. 

8, Council House Street 
b, Cl lurch Lane 
27 Chovvringhee 
8, Council House Street 
Writers' Buildings. 

7, Koilaghat Street 

8 Council House Street 
0 Mission Row 

Writers, Buddings 
P-7, Chowringhee Square 
Writers' Buildings. 

8, Council House Street 
Eastern Railway House 
bb I lalhoiisie Square 
Treasury Buildings 
Senate House 
Writers' Buildings. 

P-7, Chowringhee Square 
Treasury Buildings. 

IB Bankim Cluitterjee 
Street 

Writ its. Buildings 
1, Hasting Street 
Treasury Buildings 
7, Koilaghat Street 

7 Koilaghat St nit 

bb Snnkar Ghosh Lane 

8 Council House Street 
4, Lyons Range. 

Treasury Buildings 

7 Koilaghat St reet 
P-7 Chow img I ice Square 
4, Bankshall Street. 

b. Government Place 
Wes* 

bb. Dalhousic Square, 
South 

Treasury Buildings 
4. Hastings Street, 
Treasury Buildings. 

2, Fairlie Place 
W liters’ Buildings 
5 8. N. Banerjec Road 



No. Name*. 

Basu, Sakti Kumar, Boom 

Basu, Salil Kumar, ba 

Basu, Samarondra Mohan, BCJom 

Basu, Samarondra Nath, bsc 
Basu, Samar Kanti, MA 

Basu. Sambhu Gopal, BA 
Basu, Sankar Kumar, Bse 
Basu, Sankar Lai, ba 
Basu, Katya Oharan, BSC 
Basu. Satyendra Nath, BS( ' 

Basu, Satyaranjan, MA 
Brtsu, Si ha Prasad, Bse 
Basu, Shyirialendu, ba 
Basu, Sripati Bhusan, MSC 
Basu, Subodh (Chandra, BA 
Basu, Sudhir Hanjan, BA 

Basu, Subhendu Kumar, BA 
Basu, Suhas Ch, Moom. 

Basu, Sunil Kumar, (1), BA 
Basu, Sunil Kumar, BA 
Basil, Supra vat, Bcom 
Basu, S. K., msc 
Basu, Swapan Kumar, Bcom 
Basil, Tapan Kumar, BSC 
Basu. Tarakali, MA 
Basu Mulliek, Amit. Kumar, bsc 
Basu Mulliek, Sarajendra Ch, 
Boom 

Basu Roy, I Jc ha, prosad, BSC 
Basu Roy, Lai Mohan, ba 

Basil Sarhadhikary, Jagat Kumar, 
BSC 

Bntabyal, Nanda Kishore, Boom 
Balahval, Saileudra Nath, BA . . 
Baur, Subal Chandra, ba 
Bora, Aviram 
Bera, Bibhuti Bhusan, ba 

Bhadra, Rabindranath, ba 
Bhaduri, Anil Kumar, BA 
Bhaduri, Ashoko Kumar, ba 
Bhaduri, Bhupendra Chandra, ba 
Bhaduri, Sadhan Kumar, ba 
Bhaduri, Sudhansu, ba 
Bliakta, Satish Chandra, ba 
Bhanja, Sudhansu Sekhar, ba (H) 
Bhar, Debaprasad, ma 
Bhar, Krishna Kishore, bsc 

Bhar, Ramondu, ba 
Bhar, Saehindra Nath, BSC 
Bhatnagar, Giredave Krishna 
Bhatia, Bangsidhar,MSe 
Bhatta, Chandi Charan, BA 
Bhatt, Sitarani, BCom 

Bhattacharjee, Abinash Chandra, 

BA. 

Bhattacharji, Achal, Moom 

Bhattacharji, Ajit Kumar, Boom 

Bh&ttafch&rjee, Araal Kumar # 

ICOom 


Style or calling, 

. Asstt, Home (G.A.) Department 
. Clerk, Gr II, Reserre Bank of India ... 

U D C, Income Tax Office 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Research Asstt, Animal Husbandry & Vetennary . . 
Services 

Auditor, A-G,WB 
Asstt Inspector, C E S C, Ltd 
Steno, Gr l, Reserve Bank of India 
IT DC, Telegraph Cluck Office 
U D C, D A G, P & T 
Auditor, A G, Bengal 
IT D C, I T Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
S G C, Telegraph Check Office 
Asstt, University of Calcutta 

Asstt, Life Insurance Corpn of India Oriental Go\ 
Security Life Assurance Co 
Ins, I T Office 
U D Clerk, Tea Board 

U I) C, D A G, P & T 

Auditor, A G, Bengal 

Auditor, A*(T,WB 

Asstt, Indian Alluminium Co Ltd 

IT D 0, 1 T Office, West Bengal 

IT D C, I) A G, P & T 

IJ D C, Telegraph Check Office 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Clerk, Gillanders Arbuthnot & Co, Ltd 

U J) C, I) A G, P & T 

Clerk, Standard Vaucuum Oil Co 

IT D Asstt, Medical Br, Health Dept 

Inspector, Collection Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 
U I) C, D A G, P & T 
U D Asstt Home (Poll-CR) Dept. 

Acctts Supdt, Geological Survey of India 

U D Asstt, Department of Agriculture and Food 
Production 

Acctt, D A-G, P & T Office 
IT D C, D A G, P & T 
Auditor, A-G.WB 
U D Asstt Forest Department 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G,WB 
IJ D Clerk, D A-G, P& T Office 
Auditor, A-G,WB 

Gr II Clerk, Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation 

U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
U D 0, D A G, P A T 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Sr Asstt, Board ol' Sccoudary Education 
Clerk, Branches, Central Bank of India Ltd (New 
Market Branch) 

Offg Asstt Collector, Collection Dept, Corpn of 
Calcutta. 

U D C, Income Tax Office . * 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India * « , . 

UDC.DAG, P&T 


Raddanoe or pl&oe 0 £ 
business. 

Writers’ Buildings. 

8, Council House Street 
. 3, Government Pi acp 

West 

. Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 

Treasury Buildings. 
Victoria House 
. 8, Council House Street 

33 Dalhousie Square 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 
3, Govt Place West. 
Treasury Buildings 
33 Dalhousie Square 
Senate House 

2 Clive Row 

3 Govt Place WVs! 

27 & 29, Brabournc Road 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings. 

31, Chowringhee Road 
P-13 Chowringhee Square 
7 Koilaghat Street 
33 Dalhousie Square 
Treasury Buildings 
Clive Buildings 

7 Koilaghat Ntieel 

6, Church Lane 
Writers' Building 

5, S. N. Bauer jee Road. 

7 Koilaghat Street 
Writers’ Building 
27 Chowringhee 
Writers’ Buildings. 

7, Koilaghat Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings. 
Writers’ Buildings. 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings. 

7, Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings. 

31, Dalhousie Sqimro 

7, Koilaghat Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 

4, Bankshall Street. 
Treasury Buildings 
77/2 Park Street 
10 Lindsay St reet 

5, S. N. Banwjw Road. 

3, Government 

8, Ocmoacil Hons® Bit** 

7 KoilAftoi titrert 



Names. 


63 

Style or calling. 


Bhattacharjee, Amulya Bhusan, 
BSo. 

Bhattacharjee, Amulya Kr, BA . . 
Bhattacharjee, Amulya Katun, 

BA, BT. 

Bhattacharjee, Anil Kumar, BA 
Bhattacharjee, Dinataran, BA 
Bhattacharji, Arun Kumar, ba 
Bhattacharji, Arun Kumar, ma 
B hattacharjee, Arun Prakash, 
MA 

Bhattacharji, Ashutosh, ba 
Bhattacharjee, Ashira Kr., BA 
Bhattacharjee, Abhik Kumar, BA 


Demonstrator, Suren dra Nath College 

Inspector, I T Office 
Teacher, Hindu Academy . . 

U D C, D A G, P A T 
S G Clerk, Telegraph Chock Office 
Auditor, A-G*s Office, West Bengal 

Assistant, Editor Geological Survey of India 
U D Asstt, Medical Branch, Health Dept. 

Auditor, A-G ’s Office. West Bengal 
Clerk, Eastern Railway 
U D 0, State Trading Corpn. of India Ltd. 


Bhattacharjya, Baidyanath, ma Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

Bhattacharjee, Barun Kumar, Asstt, Accounts Dept., Life Insurance Corpn. of 
BOOM India, Sun life Assurance Co of Canada. 

Bhattacharjee, Basudev, BOOM Asstt, Commerce and Industries Dept. 

Bhattacharji, Benoy Bhusan, ba Clerk, Grade 1, Reserve Bank of India 
Bhattacharji, Benoy K, II, ba . . U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 

Bhattacharji, Bliabadov, bsc . . Auditor, A-G’s Offioo, West Bengal 
Bhattacharji, Bholanath, scorn . . Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Bhattacharji, Bhupatinath, scorn IT D Asst, Home Dept (G A) 

Bhattacharji, Bibhuti Bhusan, Clerk, tirade IT, Reserve Bank of India 
BA. Ll/B 


Bhattacharji, Bidyadhar, ma . . Hd Asstt, Board of Revenue 
Bhattacharjee, Bidyut Kr, BSC . . UD C, l T Office, Dt 1(1) 

Bhattacharjee, Birondra Kumar Asstt. Administrative Officer, Geological 
BSc. of India. 


Bhattacharjee Biswanath, MCOM 
Bhattacharji, Biswanatli , (ii) ba . . 
lattacharji, Chanda n Kumar ba 
lattacharjeo, Debaprasad, MA 
L'lltucharjec, Debvanjan, MA . . 
ImUaeliurji, Dhiraj Kumar, 

BA 


U D C, D A G P & T 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

U D Asstt, Education Dept , West Bengal 

U D C, D A G, P & T 

U D C, I T Office, Dt V(l) 

Assistant, Finance Department 


Survey 


lattacharji, Dhircndra Mohan, Sec Leader, Associated Electrical Industries, Ltd 
boom 


lattacharjee, Dhirendra Nath U D C, Telegraph Chock Office 
MA. 


Imtturharjee, Dilip Kr, BA 
liattaeharjee, Dinendra Ch, BA 

luittadiarji, Dwijendra Nath, 

MA 

hattacharjya, Dwijesh Chandra, 
ba 

kittacharji, Dulal Ch, boom 

hattaeharjoe, Gopal Chandra, 
BSc. 


L D C, I T Office, Dt V(l) 

Head Clerk, Mpl. Dept., Commissioner’s Office, 
Presidency College, West Bengal. 

Jr Clerk, B C E S C, Ltd 

Clerk, Gr II, Roservo Bank of Inida . . 

Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt., Commerce and Industries Dept. 


lattacharji, Gopal Chandra MA 
lattacharji, Gopi Nath, BA 
bhattacharji, Gouranga, Boom . . 
‘Wtacharjeo, Gouranga K, MA 

lattacharji, Gouri Kanta, BA 
^ttacharji, Gouri Pati BA(Hons) 

iha Ua<harjee, Govinda, BSC . . 
lattacharji, Haradaa, ba 

J^taoharji, Hari Dm, ma 


Auditor, A-G’s, W B 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Asstt, Life Insurance Corpn. of India, Oriental 
Govt. Security Life Assurance Co. 

Inspector office of C I T, W B 

Office - Superintendent Comercial Intelligence and 
Statistics. 

UDC, DAG, P&T 

Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 


Residence or piaoe of 
business. 

24/2 Mahatma Gandhi 
Road. 

P-8 Brabourne Road 
50 Amherst Street. 

7 Koilaghal Street 
33 Dalhousie Square. 
Treasury Buildings 
27, Chowringhee 
Writers’ Buildings. 

Treasury Buildings 
Eastern Rly House. 

32 Dalhousie Square 
South. 

8, Council House Street 
23B Netaji Subhas Road 

Writers’ Buildings. 

8, Council House Street 

7, Koilaghat Street 

Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 

Writers’ Buildings 

8, Council House Street 

Writers’ Buildings 

3 Govt Place West 
27 Chowringhee Road 

7 Koilaghat Street,. 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Street. 

P-7 Chowringhee Sqr. 
Writers’ Buildings 

ft, Mission Row 

33 Dalhousie Square. 

3 Govt Place West 
1 L Netaji Subhas Road 

Victoria House 

8, Council House Street 

8, Council House Street 
Writers’ Buildings. 

Treasury Buildings 

7, Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 
2 Clive Row. 

4, Hastings Street. 

1, Council House Street. 

7 Koilaghat Street 

77/2, Park Street 
Road 

8, Council House Stseat 



64 


No. Names. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or pi^ 

business. ^ 


Bhattacharji, Haridhan, Boom . . Clerk, Tata Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Bhattacharji, Harikanto, Boom Auditor, A G W B 
Bhattacharji. Hariprosad. ma . . Acctt, D A-G, P & T Office 
Bhattacharji, Himangshu, Pr. BA Supdt, Board of Secondary Education . . 
Bhattacharji, Jaladhar, MCOM UDC, Telegraph Check Office 
Bhattacharji, Javanta, bl . . Salesman, T E Thomson & Co, Ltd 
Bhattacharjee, Jiban Kanta, BSC U D C, DAGP&T 
Bhattacharji, Jibananda, ba . . U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 

Bhattacharji, Jyotirmoy, bsc . . Auditor, A G W B 

Bhattacharji, K P, ba . . Inspector, Tea Board 

Bhattacharji, Kanai Lai, bsc . . Acctt, D A-G, P & 1 Office . • 

Bhattacharji, Khudiram, ba . . Assistant, Co-op Directorate 

Bhattaeharjya, Krishnapada, ba Clerk, Or II, Reservo Bank of India . . 
Bhattacharji, Madliab Ch. ma . . Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Bhattacharjee, Manick Gopal, Hd Asstt, Geological Survey of India .. 

BOOM 

Bhattacharjee, Manindra Nath, U D C, D A G P & T 
BA(Hosn) 

Bhattacliarj ee , Manmotha Nath, Asstt Teacher, Oriental Seminary 

MSc BT 

Bhattacharjee, Monoranjan, BA Sub Head, E Rly 

Bhattacharjee, Miikunda Mohan, U D C, DAGP&T 
BSC 

Bhattacharjee, Nani Gopal, BA . . Auditor, A G, Bengal 

Bhattacharji, Nani Gopal, BCom Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank Of India . . 

Bhattacharjee, Narondra Lai, BSC Inspector, T T Office 

Bhattacharji, Nikhil Bandhu, Arcs Clerk, Indian ("able Co (Tndia), Ltd 
BCom 

Bhattacharjee, Nirinalendii, BA , . L T) Asstt, Medical Br, Health Dept 
Bhattacharji, Nrijiendra Nath, bsc Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Educat ion 
Bhattacharji, Ranch u Gopal, BA IT D C, D A G V & T 

Bhattacharji, Parosh Ch, ma .. Inspector, Collection Dept, (\>rpn of Cal 

Bhattacharjee, Pari tosh, BA . . U D C, DAGP&T 

Bhattacharji, Phani Bhusan, ma U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 

Bhattacharjya, Phanindra Kish ore. Auditor, A Gs Office 
MA 

Bhattacliarj i, Piyush lvanti, ba Aoctt, A G W B 

Bhattacharji, Prahhati, bsc , . Auditor, A G W B 

Bhattacharji, Prasanta Kumar, Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 
MSC 

Bhattacharji, Premanshu, bsc Asstt Land Revenue Br, Land & Land Rev Dept 

Bhattacharji, Prifchis, ba . . Inspector, I T Office, Dt. 1(1) W B 

Bhattacharjee, Rabindra Nath . . Asstt, Directorate of Agriculture 

Bhattacharji, Ramesh Chandra ma Asstt, Land Acquisition Dept 

Bhattacharjee, Ramprosad, Security Clerk, Central Bank of Tndia, Ltd (New 

BCOM, LLB , Market Br). 

Bhattacharjee, S, BA . • Clerk B, C E S C Ltd 

Bhattacharji, SachindraN, Boom Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India .. 


23B, Netaji Suhh as 
Teasury Building 
7 Koilaghat , Strict 
77/2 Park 
33 Dalhouuio 
9 A Esplanade Kost 
7 Koilaghat Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Building? 
27 & 29, Brahoume 

7 Koilaghat Street 

New Secretariat 
ings 

8 Council House S 
Treasury Building 

27 Ohowringhor. 

7 Koilaghat St, root 
330 1 1 1 ) | > !T* ( *li it pd 

3 Koilaghat Snwi 

7 Koilagli.il St nvt 

Treasun Kui Id mg 

8 Counci) JIouso Mt 
P-7 ( -howriugh*^ 

9 Mare Si.reel 

Writer, 1 ih 1 mg‘ 

77/2. P.’trlv 
7 Ktnlagli.it Sirol 

f>, ,S N liaru*r|<r 11 
7 Koilaghat Stivei 

7 Koilaghat Strcrt 
Treasury building 

Treasury Building 

Treasury ILiihlinj-' 

8 Council House St 
Writers’ Huilditiu.' 1 
3 Uovt l'U* 
Writers’ Ituilriings 
Writers’ J>uil<l ,n f p 

10 Ijin.ls.iy 
Victoria Hon*'- 

8 Council 



Names. 


66 


Reeidenoe or plaoe of 
business. 


No.* 


Style or calling. 


Bhattaeharjee, S C, BSc 
Bhattacharji, Sadasib, ba 
Bhattacharji, Sailendra Bejoy, ba 
Bhattacharji, Samarendra, ma 
Bhattaeharjee, Santi Ran j an, BA 
Bhattacharji, Santosh Kr, ba 

Bhattacharjeo, Santosh, BA 
Bhattacharjeo, Sarada Gopal, BA 
Bhattacharjeo, Saroj Kumar, BA 
Bhattacharji, Satindra M, scorn 
Bhattacharji, Sisir Kumar, msc . . 
Bhattacharji, Soumendra Mohon, 

BSC 

Bhattaeharjee, Sripati Ranjan, 
BA. 

Bhattacharji, Subhas Chandra, bsc 
Bhattacharji, Sudhansu Ranjan, 
BL 

Bhattacharji, Sudhindra Mohan, 

MA 


Chemist, West Bengal Public Health Laboratory . . 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Offioe 
UDC, IT office, W B Dt. 1(1) 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Head Asstt., Geological Survey of India 

U D Asstt, Dept of Agriculture & Food Production, 
W Bengal 

IT D C, D A G, P & T 
U D C, D A G, P & T 
U I) C, D A G, P & T 
Clerk, Burmah Shell O S & D Co, Ltd 
Clerk, Burmah Shell O S & D Co, Ltd 
Auditor, A G W B 


Chittaranjan Avenue. 
7 Koilaghat Street 
3 Govt Place West 
Treasury Buildings 
27 Cho wring hoe. 
Writers’ Buildings 

7 Koilaghat Street. 

7 Koilaghat Street.. 

7 Koilaghat Street. 
Hongkong House 
Hongkong House 
Treasury Buildings 


U T) C, DAG.P&T 


7 Koilaghat Street. 


Clerk, State Bank of India 
Auditor, A-G’s Offieo, West Bengal 


Queen's Mansion 
Treasury Buildings 


Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 


Treasury Buildings 


Bhattaeharjee, Sunil Kumar, MA, Accountant, T) A G, P & T. . 

I /LB. 

Bhattacharji, Suranath, Boom . . UI) Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Bhattaeharjee, Sukomal, BSc . . U D C, State Trading Corpn. of India Ltd 


Bhattacharji, Surja Kumar, ba Clerk, Cal Improvement Trust. 

Bhattacharji, Sushil Kumar, ba Clerk, Jr, C E S C, Ltd 
Bhattaeharjee, Sushil Kr., BA . . U D C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
Bhattacharji, Sushil Kr, ma . . Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Bhattacharji, Swadesh Ranjan, ma Auditor, A-G’s Office. West Bengal 
Bhattaeharjee, Taradas BSc . . U D 0, Telegraph Cheek Office 
Bhattaeharjee, T, BSo . . Asstt ., (Purchase) Indian Aluminium (Jo. Ltd 


Bhattacharji, Tarapada, ba 
B hattacharji, Tarapada, use 
Bhattacharji, Tushar Kanti. use 
Bhattaeharjee, Hrishikesh, BA 
Bheual, Arnarendra N, BSc 
Blmwal, Sudhir Chandra, bsc 
Bhamnik, Bilas Chandra, BA 
Bhowmiek, Bishnupada, ba 
Bhowmiek Jadav Chandra, Boom 
Bh.iwinick, Jyoiirmoy, Boom 
Bliow mik, Madhabondra, BSc . . 

Bhowmiek, Prasanta Kumar, 
Hoom 

lili.jwmick, Rabindra Nath, BA 
bhowmiek, Ranajit, ba 
bhowmiek, Sasanka Sokliar, bsc 
Hlmwmick, Syamapada, MSc 
Bhowmiek, Sitanath, ba 
bhowmiek, Sunil Kumar, ma . . 

huyau, Nirmalendu, Mrom 
“ iw4s . Ajit Kumar, ba 
B'xwas, Amritalal, Boom 
'! swati . Anil Haran, Bcom 
*swa.8, Arunodaya, ma(ooiu) 
wwae, Asoke Kuniar, ba 
w »a s , Bhupati Ranjan, 


Asstt, Education Directorate 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
L D Asstt, Board of Revenue 
Head Asstt., Geological Survey of India. 

U I> C, Telegraph Check Office 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West. Becigal 

U D C, D A G P AT 

Clerk, Burmah Shell 0 S & 1) (Jo, Ltd 

Auditor, A G W B 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West. Bengal 

U D C, I) A G, P & T 

Auditor, A G W B 

Auditor, A G W B 

Auditor, A G’s Office, West Bengal 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

S G Clerk, Telegraph Check Offioe 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Auditor, A G W B 

Auditor, A G W B 

U D Assistant, ITome Dept (Political) 

Clerk (Jr), C E S C Ltd 

Sr Clerk, Election Dept. Corpn of Cal 

Auditor, A G W B 

L D Asstt, Board of Revenue, West Bengal 
Inspector, C I T, Office W Bengal 


7 Koilaghat Street . 

7, Koilaghat Street 

32 Dalhoiisio Saqure 
South 

10, Netaji Subhas Load 
Victoria House 

33 Dalhousie Square. 

8 Council House Street 
Treasury Buildings 

7 Koilaghat Street. 

31 Chowringheo Road. 

Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
27 Chowringliee. 

7 Koilaghat. Street. 
Treasury Buildings 
7 Koilaghat. Street.. 
Hongkong House 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Street. 

Treasury Buildings 

Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
33 Dalhousie Square. 
Troasiiiy Buildingr 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
Victoria House 
f> S N Bauer jee lid 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
3 Govt Place West 



Names. 

Biswas, Bibhuti Bhusan, ba 
Biswas, Bimalendu, BA 
Biswas, Bin ode Bohari, BA 
Biswas, Bipradas, BSC 

Biswas, Bireswar, ba 
Biswas, Bishnu Pada, bsc 
Biswas, Biswanath, bso 
Biswas, Ohittaranjan, bhc 
Biswas, Dob Kumar, MOOM 
Biswas, Durges Naravan, Boom 
Biswas Girish Chandra, booiii 
Biswas, Gourpada, BCom 
Biswas, Harendra Nath, ba 
B iswas, Homendra Kumar, bsc 
Biswas Himanshu Kumar, bsc . . 
Biswas, Hrisliikesh, bsc 
Biswas, Jadab Chandra, ba 
B iswas, J. K, ucoin 

Biswas, J N, ba 

Biswas, Jadunath, ha 
Biswas, diban Kumar, BSC 
Biswas, Jogesh Chandra, bsc 
Biswas, Kamala Kanta, ba 
Biswas, Lakshin an ( -Bl, ba 
B iswas, Mani Kanta, BA 
Biswas, Monmoth Nath, bsc 
Biswas, Mihir Kanti, LLB 
Biswas, N C, BCom 
Biswas, Nalin Kumar, MABT . . 
Biswas, Nirmal Kumar, ncom 
Biswas, Panchanan, ma 
Biswas, Phatik Ch, BA . . 

Biswas Prakash Chandra, B(Jom 
Biswas Pramode Ran j an, ba 

Biswas, Pro vat Kr, bcjoiii 
Biswas, llabindra Nath 

Biswas, Rabindra Natli, ba, tj«b 
Biswas, Raj Kumar, bsc 
Biswas, Rampada, ba 
Biswas, Ranjit Kumar, bsc 
Biswas, Rasaranjan, BA 
Biswas, Santosb Kumar, bsc 
Biswas, Santosh Kumar, ma, bt 
Biswas, Sarat Ch, B( X)M 
Biswas, Saroj Kumar, ba 
Biswas, Srinath, ba 
Biswas, Siibhendu, BSC 
Biswas, Sudarsan Chandra, bsc 
Biswas, Sujan Bikas, MA 

Basu, Usharanjan, Bcoia 
Bernard, D’Souza, bsc, Boom 

Brahma, Purnendu, ba 
Brahmachan, Bhupendra Krishna, 
BSC, »L 

Brahmachari, Rebati Mohon, BSC 
Burman, Dilip Kumar, Bcom 
Burxnan, Samarondra Lai, BSC . . 
Burman, Ray Radha Gobinda, 
bso 


Style or palling. 


R—t d enoe or pUo*.# 
business. 


Auditor, A G W B 

U D C, I T Office, Dt V(l) . . 
U D C, Telegraph Check Office 
Ins, I T Office . . 


. . Treasury Buildings 
. . 3 Govt. Piacs, VViHt 

. . 33 Dalhousie Square 

. . 3 Govt Plaoe, West. 


Clork, Telegraph Check Office 
Clerk, Telegraph Chock Office 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Auditor, A G W B 

U I) C, Offl Trustee & Adm Gonl of West Bengal . . 
Asstt, Requisition Br, Land & Land Rev Dept 
Auditor, A G W B 
Clork, Gr IT, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A-G’s Office 
Auditor, A G W B 
Auditor, A G W B 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, A C 1 
U. D. Asstt, Commerce and Industries Dept 
Asstt, Imperial Chemical Industries (India) 
(Private) Ltd 

Clerk, B C ESC, Ltd . . 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

III) C, DAGP&T 

Ul) Asstt, Medical Br. Health Deptt 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

S G C, D A-G, P A T Office 

Hd Clerk, I T Office 

Auditor, A-G’s Office 

IT D C, D A G P & T 
U D Clerk, Tea Board 

Asstt Master, Scottish Church Collegiate School 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Inspector, C 1 T, W Bengal 
Jr Ac c tt, E Rly 
Auditor, A G W B 
Auditor, A G W B 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Asstt, Directorate of Agriculture 

Asstt, Local-Self Govt Dept 
IT D Clerk, Iron & Steel Control 
IT D C, C 1 T, W Bengal 
I)y Asstt Valuer, Improvement Trust 
UDC, DAGP&T 
Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 
Teacher, Scottish Church Collegiate School 
UDC.DAGP&T 
Clerk, Grade IT, Reserve Bank of Tndia 
Auditor, AGWB 
UDC, Telegraph Check Office 

Auditor, AGWB 

D A Marketing Officer, Agricultural Marketing, 
West Bengal. 

Clork Gr II, Reserve Bank of India . . 

Asst, Lovelock & Lewes 
Auditor, AGWB 
Clerk, A, C E S C, Ltd 


33, Dalhousie Squar<- 

33, Dalhousie Square 

7, Koiiaghat Street 
Treasury Buikii n g H 

1 Hastings Street. 
Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 

8, Council House Stn 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Biuiaings 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 

34, Chowringliee 

Victoria House 

Treasury Buildings 
7 Koiiaghat Street. 

Writers' Buildings 
Treas ury Built lings 

7, Koiiaghat Street 
P-7 Chowringhoe Siju 
Treasury Buildings 

7 Koiiaghat Street. 
27 & 29, Brahourne R< 
73 Cornwallis Street 

8, Council House Strt 
3, Govt Place West 
Eastern Riilway 11" 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
33, Netaji Sub has Itoa 

3, Govt Place West 
10, Netaji Nubhas It 

7 Koiiaghat Street. 

8, Council House Strt? 
73, Cornwallis Strict 
7 Koiiaghat Street. 

8, Council House Stn 
Treasury Bu i Iding* 1 
33 Dalhousie Square. 
Treasury Building* 
Writers’ Building*- 

8, Couricial House Sri' 

4, Lyons Rang* 5 
Treasury Budding* 

Victoria House 


UDC, DAGP&T 

Aduitor, AGWB 

Office Supdt, CPO’s Office, E RJy 

Auditor, AGWB 



57 


Names. 


Style or oalling. 


Residence or plaoe of 
business. 


C 

CI,:il;ral>oi’l'y> Ahwiiiulra N, BA . . 
Cliiikravarti, Ajit, Kumar, use . - 
('liA rcihorty, Ajit K uiimr, BSi- . . 
Clmkriivarty Ajit lUujan, ma 
C li (knilxirty, Amal Kumar, BCOM, 
CliakravarU, Amar Nath. Boom 
Cliiikravarti, Amalanaiifla, ma . . 
Cliakravnrti, Amaron<ira Natli, 
mcoin. 

Chakrnbarty, Amulya Bliusan, 

MA 

Phakravarti, Ananga Kumar, ba 
Chakra varti, Anil Chandra, ma . . 
Phakrabart.y, Anil Kumar, ba . . 
Chakra varti, Anuktil Chuudru, BA 
Pimkra varti, Arun Molion, ba 
Cliukraborty. At ul Chandra, BSe 

( 'hakra varti, Basudeb, Bcom 
Chakra. varti, Benoy Bhusan, ba 
( hakra \ arti, Benoy Kr., ma 
C lmkravarti. Bhabani Prosad 
nsc 

(’Imkraborty, Bhabani Prowad, BSe 
( hakra. varti, Buddhajiban. ba. . . 

( halo a hort\ , Biblmti Bli. BCOM 
Chakra varti, Biblmti Bhusan, ba 
( hakrabarty Bimal Chandra, 
ncom 

Chakra I ><>rty, Bimalendu, BA, BL 
Chakrabarty, Bireiidra Nath, ba 
< hakra \ arti, Bircndranath, No. 2 , 
aemn 

Chakrabart a , Biswanath, ba 
t'hakiaborty. Biswanath, BA 
Chrikiahorty . Bi\ ash, BA 
(•hakravart i, Brojogopal, ba 
C lukra \ arti, ( ’hittaranjan, Beam 
Clmkravarti, Ohittaranjan, ma 
(’ iiiikra v arti Delmprasad. BA 
< ’ha kra hurty, Dilip Kumar, MA . . 

< 'Imkraborty, Dinendra. Nath, BSe 
Cliakrahnrly , Dinesh ( 1 i., MA 
Chakrabartv, Ganeshlal, ba 
C liiikrax art i, ({opal Krishna, BSc 
Cliakrahorty, ( {opinarain , BA 
* kakt.ivarti, Guru Pr, Benin 
blukuhoily, Haradhaii, MA 
1 ’hakra varti, llimaiigshu Lab MA 

^kakravarti, Himansu Kumar, 
(Hoiih) 

( k«ikrahnrty, Hitanshu Lai, MA 
CbakfH varti, Jiban Krishna, ma 
^‘. ikravarti, Jibananda, ba 
1 { *kral>arty , Jibendra Kr., ba 
^hakravarti, Jyoti Bhusan, ba . . 
^krivarti, Jyobirmov. ma 


IT 1) O, Telegraph Chock Office 
Auditor, A-G*s Office, T 0 I 
IT 1) (■, Kd lira lion l)opt. 

U I) Asstt. Home (Political). West Bengal 
Asstt., Commerce and Industries Dept. 

Clerk, Shaw Wallaoe & Co, Ltd 
Supdt, A. -G’s., Office West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, 1 G II, West Bengal 

Inspector, I T office, W B 

Clerk. Williamson Magor & Co 
Acctt, A G’a Office, West Bengal 
U D C, I T office, W B 
Auditor, A G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A C’s Office, West Bengal 
Asst t ., Commerce and Industries Dept. 
Asstt., Land Reforms Branch 
Assistant, Finance Department 
Auditor, Standard Vacuum Oil Co. Ltd 
Asstt., Land Acquisition Branch 

Asstt , Office of I T 0, S I B 
Auditor, A.-G.’s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, B, C E S C Ltd. 

Auditor, A. -G’s Office, West. Bengal 
Auditor, A G W B 

Jr. Asstt., Board of Secondary Education 

U J> 0, I T office, \\ B 

Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 

Auditor, A G W B 
C 1) C, D A G, V & T 
Auditor, A. G’s Office, West. Bengal 
U. D. Clerk, D. A.-G. : P. & T. Office . . 
Auditor, A O s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A.-G.’s Office, West Bengal . . 
Auditor, A G’s Office, West Bengal 
C I) 0, 1) A G, P & T 

0 I ) Asstt, Medical Br., Health Dept. 

S. G. Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

lid 01, 1 T office, W B 

Clerk, Gr II f Reserve. Bank ot India 

U D C, I) A G, P & T 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India. 

Asstt , Office of 1 T O, S I B 
Auditor, A G w Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 

Asstt, 1 T Office 

Auditor, AGs Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, Gr 11, Reserve Bank of India 
U D 0, I T office, W B 
Asstt, Judicial Deptt, West Bengal 
Auditor, A G’s Office, West Bengal 


J3 I >alhouste Square. 
Treasury Puddings 
Writers’ Buildings. 
Writers’ Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings. 

. . 4, Bankshali Street 

Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Puddings 

4, Hast ings Street 

4, Mangoe Lane 
. . Treasury Buildings 

P-7, Ohowringheo Square 
. . Treasury Puddings 
Treasury Puddings 
Writers’ Puddings. 
Writers’ Buildings 
Writers’ Buddings 
(h Church Lane 
Writers' Buildings 

P-7 Oho writ lghee Square 
Treasury Buildings 
Victoria. House. 

Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 

. . 77 2 Park Street. 

4. Hastings Street 

.. S, Council House Street 

Treasury Buildings 
7 lv» > dag hat Street . 
Treasury Buildings. 

7, K oil a ghat Street 
Trea.su i\ Buildings 

. . Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
. . 7 KoiUghat Str«»ot. 

Writers’ Buildings. 

. . Dalhousie Square. 

;i , ( Jovt Place West 

5. ( 'on ncil House Street 
7 Koilaghat Street. 

S, Council House Street 
P-7 ( Miowi inghcc Square 
. . Treasury Buildings 

S, Council House Street 

p- J ( Jim wringing Square 
.. Treasury Building® 

8, Council House. Street 
P-7, Chowrmghce Squar. 

. . Writers ’ Building® 

. . Treasury 



58 


Ko. 


Names. 


Style or oalling. 


Residence or 

buBinesfi^ 1 


Chakravarti, Jyotirmoy, bsc. 
Chakra varti, Kalidas, booth 
Chakravarti, K L, ma, Boom 
Clutkravarti, Kedareswar, BCom 
Chakravarty, Keshablal, ba 
C hakraborty, Kuntal, BA 
Chakravarti, Lai it Mohan, ba 
Chakravarti, Mamndra Kumar, 
BOoin 

Chakraborty, Manju Gopal, BA 
Chakravartv, Maninotha Bhusan, 
BA 

Chakravarly, Mihirranjan, ba 
Chakravarty, Naresh Chandra . . 
Chakravarty, Naroshwar, Boom 
Chakraborty, Nopal Ch, BA 
Chakravarti, Niranjan, booth 
Chakravarti, Nirendralal, Boom. 


Assistant, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
Inspector I T Office W. B. 

Asstt Supdt, Tea Board 
Asstt, Lovelock Si Lowes 
Inspector, Election Dept, Corpn'of Cal 
Auditor, A G’s Office, West Bengal 
C. J). Clerk, D A <1, P & T Office 
Auditor, A -G’s office. West Bengal 

V D C, 1) A G P & T 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Auditor, A G W B 

Secy, Airways Ltd 

Auditor, A G B W 

U D Asstt, Homo (Passport) Dop 

Auditor, A G’s office, West Bengal 

L D Assistant, Office of the Board of Revenue 


Chakravarty, Nirmalendu, msc . . 
Chakraborty, Nitya Gopal, BCOM 
Cnakra varti, Nripendra Kumar, 

BA 

Chakravarti, Nripendra N, ba 
C hakraborty, Pabitra Ki\ BCOM 
Chakraborty, Pabitra Kumar, BA 
Chakravarti, Paresh Ch, Bf’om 
Chakravarti, Paresh Chandra, 

MA 

Chakravarti, Parimal Kumar 
Chakraborty, Phanindra I>all, BA 
Chakraborty, Probodh Ranjan, BA 
Chakravarti, Pramatha N, ba 
Chakravarty, Pran Kumar, ba . . 
Chnkravartty, Frith wis Oh, bsc 

Chakravarti, Prosanta Kr 
Ohakrabortv, Pul in Behari, BA . . 
Chakravarti, Punnalal, bsc, Bcom 
Chakravarti, Rabindra Ch, ba 


Auditor, A G W B 
IT D C, TelegraMi Check Office 
Assistant, Bengal National Chamber t>f Commerce 
and Industry 

Clerk. Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
U D C, Telegraph Check Office 
Asstt, W B Provincial Co-op Bank Ltd 
U D Asstt, Board of Revenue, West Bengal 
Head Clerk, State Bank of India 

P. W. Inspector, K G D, Port Commissioners Office 

Asstt, Octavius Steel & Co, Ltd 

Supvr, I T Office 

U D Clerk, D A-G . P & T Office 

Clerk, IC1 India, Ltd 

IJ D Asstt, Dept of Agriculture & Pood Production, 
W Bengal 

Auditor, A-G’s office, West Bengal 
Ins, I T Office 

Accountant, A-G's office. West Bengal 
Clerk, A C E, S C, Ltd 


Chakraborty, Rabindra Nath, Clerk, E Illy 

MCOM 

Chakravarti, Raniendra Ch, ba Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank ot India 


10, Netaji Nubhm 

3, Govt Place, \v t 

27 and 29, Brubo, 

4, Lyons 

5, S N Bancrj h 
Treasury liu,l,i IIlf . 

7, Koilaghat 
’J'reasury Btiil.ii^ 

7 Koilagliaf Sir..,.. 
Treasury Buildu,., 

Tearsury B u i| ( } 4l 
1 , Hastings M 
Treasury Build, u 
11A F rec Sri mol s 
Treasury limldm: 
Writers 1 Kmbimgi 
Treasury Buildjn 

33 I )alb<Misir ,s ( |i 
P-11, Mission 
Extension 

8, Council House i; 
33 1 billion, Mr S.ji 
l(j ()l«l Com I 11. 

Writers’ Bmldm^ 
Queens Mansions 

15. Strand I load 
14 Old Court Bon 
P-7 ( Ihowniudi 1 1 
7, Koilaghat Slur 
34, Clmw ringing 
Writers 1 Biuldm 

Treasury Buildin; 
3 ( Ic >\ t Plan* W •• 
Treason Buiblin: 
Victoria House 
Eastern lluilwu; 

8, ( loinicil Hoiim 


Chakraborty, Raniendra Nath, MA 

Chakra varti, Ralisli Chandra, ba 
Chakravarti, S., ma. 

(3iakra\ art i, Sachindra, Natli, MA 
Chakraborty, Sachindra. Mohan, 

BA 

Chakraborty, Sailondra Mohan, 

BA 

Chakravarti, Samit K, bsc 

Chakravarti, Santipada, Boom . . 

Chakraborty, Santosh Kumar, BA 

Chakravarty, Satyendra Nath, 

BSO 

Chakravarty, Satyaranjan, Boom 

Chakravarti, Sishu Gopal, ma 

Chakraborty, Sliamalondu, BA . . 

Chakraborty, Sisir Kumar, BCOM 

Chakravartty, Snehangsu Mohan, 
Boom 

Chakravarti, Suhas, ma 

Chakravarti, Subodh K, ba 
Chakravarti, Subodh Ranjan, ba 
'Chakravarty, Sudhendu, bsc 


Asstt, Home (G A) Dept . . 

Clerk Commmissioiuu* of Excise Office 

U D Clerk, Tea Board 

Staff Asstt, Reserve Bank of India 

Dist Organiser, National Sa\ itigs Organisation 

H(1 Clerk, R G Dept Commissioner's Office, Presi- 
dency Division, West Bengal. 

Audit Clerk, Price Waterhouse Peat Si Co 

Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Office of I T O, S I B 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 

Auditor, A G W B 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bongal 
U D C, D A G P & T 
U D 0, Telograph Check Office 
U D Asstt, Medical & Public Health Deptt 

U D Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 
Sales Tax, Standard Vacuum Oil Co . . 

Aoctt, D A-G, P Sc T office 
Auditor, AGWB 


Writers’ Mnihling 

Writers Built but. 
27 & 29 Bn l>( mu 

8 , Council lleie* 
Hindus! Irm bm |,! 

II Nctiljl SltklM 


B4, (JilUudcr ih 

8, Coins il P ,MH 
p-7 Cliow riiigb*‘ r 



Names. 


50 


Chakra varti, Sunil Kan to, bsc . . 

Chakrabortv, Sunil Kumar, MA 
BL 

Chakraborty, Sunil Kr., BA 

Chakravarti, Sunil Kumar, BOOM 
Chakravarti, Sunil Kumar, MA . . 
Chakravarti, Sunil Kuinar, BSC, 
BT 

( Jhakra varti, Sushil Kumar, BCom 
Chakraborty, Sushi 1 Kumar, MA 
Cjiakravarti, Sushil Ch, Boom 
Chakravarty, Sushil K, ba 

Chakravarty, Surondra, MA 
Chanda, Ash is, BA 
Chanda, Benny Krishna, BA 
Chanda, Paramewh Chandra, ba. . 
Chanda, It K, ba 

Chandra, Bhupati Mohan, Bcx>m 
Chandra, Bimalananda, BCOM . . 
Chanda, Bimalondu Narayan, 
MA 

Chanda,. Peary Mohan, Boom 

Chanda, Rarnesh Kr, Boom 
Chanda, Subhas Kr., BA 
Chanda Kay, Ilaiiendra Mohan 
MS<\ BT 

Chandra, Nritva Copal, bsc 
Chandra, Sailcndra Sekhar, bs 
Chat t<*r|<a\ Abani Kuinar, BA 


Chat t erjee. Aditya Ranjan, MCOM 
Chiilterjee, A joy Kr., BA 
Cliatt erjee, Amarendra N., MSP 
Chatter ji.Arnar Kumar, ma 
Chatt erjee, Amal Chandra BA 
(Chatterjee, Amar Krishna, ma 
( rom) 

( ‘hat lerjee, Atniya Kuinar, BA . . 

(Chatterjee, Amiya Bhusan, bsc 

Chat 1 erjee, Anath Bandhu, BA . . 
Chatterji, Anil, ba 
^ hat t erjee. Anil Kumar BA, BT. . 


Chatterji, Arun Kr, BCom 
Chatterji, A run Kumar, ba (Hen) 
(Chatterji, Ashim Kumar, BCom . . 


( hat ter ji, Barid Baran, ba 
C hatterjee, Bakulev, BA(H) 
(Chatterji, Banipada, ma 

Chatterji, Benoy Bhusan, ba . . 


Chatterji, Benoy Bh, ba 
Umtt erjee, Bhudev, MSC 
hat t erjee, Bhupendra Nath, MA 
hat, erjee, Bimal Krishna, ba 
( hatterjee, Biman 


Chatterji, Chandi Prosad, Boom 


Chatterji,Ohinmoy, Boom 
Chatterji, Debdas. Boom 
Chatterji, Dilip K, Boom 


batterjee DiHp Kumar, MA 
terji, Durgada8 t bsc, Room 
^ attorji, Girindranath, ba 
Chatterjee, Gobinda Ch. BSC 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


Auditor, A G's office, West Bengal 
Asstt, Octavious St-oel & Co 

Clerk, E Rly 

Ins, 1 T Office 
Asstt, Finance Depft 
U i) C, L) A G V & T 

(Clerk, Oracle IT, Reserve Bunk of India 
Inspector, 1 T Office 
U 1) (Clerk, I) \-G, P & T office 
U D Clerk, J) A-G, P <fc T Oil ice 

U 1) C, I) A c; P & T 

U I) Asstt, A (Ps office. West Bengal 

U 1) (\ I) A (i P & T 

Auditor, A (i s office. West Bengal 

Asstt, I C I (India), Ltd 

Clerk, Burma Shell O. S. A IX (Co., Ltd 

IT 1) (C, Telegraph Check Office 

l T I) Asstt, Home (Social Welfare) Dept 


Treasury Buildings 

14 Old Court House 
St reel 

Eastern Railway 

Mouse ^ 

.‘1 < i< >\ t Place West 
Writers' Buildings 
7 KoilagluU Street 

S, Council Mouse Street 
3 ( io\ t Place West 
7, Kojlaghat Street 
7, Koilaghat St reet 

7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 
H4, (Chowringhee 

Hongkong Mouse 

Daliiousic Square 
Writers’ Buildings 


Clerk, Or II, Reserve. Bank of India 

Dy Acctt, Stationery Office 
U D C, 1) A (i P & T 

Asstt Master. Scottish Church Collegiate* School 


S, Council Mouse Street 

it, Church Lane 
7 Koilaghat Srteet 
13 ( ornwallis Street 


Clerk, Grindlays Bank Ltd 
Auditor, A G, W B 

Security Clerk, Central Bank ot India, 
Branch) 

Auditor, A (i Bengal 
U D C, I T Office 
Teacher, Mitra Institution 
U D Clerk, 1) A-G, P & T offie< 

Ins, 1 T Office 

A F S O, F S Dept , Corpn ol Cal 


(>, Ch un;h Lane 
Treasury Building •. 
(New Market 10 Lmdsa\ Si i ret 

Treasury Buildings 
P-S Bra bourne Road 
(50- B Suiya Sen Street 
7. Koilaghat Street 

S Bra hoi i rue Road 
5 S N Baiierjee Rd 


Dist Organiser, National Saving- organisation, HmdiisHian Buildings 
West Bengal 

Auditor, A G, W B . . Treasury Buildings 

Auditor, A G Bengal . . Treasury Buildings 

Stenographer, Caledonian Insurance Co .. B-3, (■live Buildings 

Asstt, Teacher, Sliyamlm'/ar Yidyasagar School . . (»S Bhupendra. Bose 

A\ enue 

U J) Clerk, D A-G, P A T nftiee . . 7. Koilaghal Street. 


Reader, B Translator’s office, W B . . Writers* Buildings 

Clerk, Grade IT, Reserve Bank of India . . 8, Council House Street 


U D C, Stationery Office 
U 1) C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

File Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil (Jo 


JJ, Church Lane 
33 I )alhousie Square 
Treasury Buildings 

6, Church Lane 


Clerk, Or L Reserve Bank of India 
Demonstrator, St Paul’s Cathedral Mission College 
U 3) C 1) A G V A T 
Auditor, A G, W B 

Asstt Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 


8, Conned Hoiim Street 
33 I Amherest St reel 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Tn »a si i r y B u 1 1 d i j igs 

4 Bank shall Street 


Clerk, Harrisons A Canstield, Ltd 
Clerk, Williamson Magor & Co 
Clerk, Burma Shell O S & J) Co, Ltd 
Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank ot India 

Asstt, University of Calcutta 
Sr Austt, Board of Secondary Education 
Auditor, A G’s office, Wost Bengal 
U D C, Telegraph Check Office 


. . (>, Church Lane 

. . 4, Mangoe Lane 

. . Hongkong House 
. . 8, Council House Street 

Senate House 
. . 77/2, Park Street 

. . Treasury B uilditiga 
33 Dalhousie Square 



No. 


60 


Names. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or plaoe ^ 
business. 


Chatterji, Gour Kinkar, ma 
Chatterji, Hemanto Kumar, BA, 
BCorn 

(Ohatterji, liirendraiiath, bsc 
C hat torjeo. Hrishikesh, BL 
Chatterji, Indu Bhusnn, R**om . . 

( Miatferjee, J BA 
(ohatterji, Jagadiswar, ma 
Chatterji, Jngannath Prosad, 
Boom 

( That toijee, Jngneswar Supra, 

BA 

Chatterji, Jamini Kumar, bsc . . 

( Thattcrjec, Jamini Mohan, BSC . . 

( Shatter joe. Janaranjan, BA 
Chatterji, Jaiindra Nath, bsc . . 
Chatterji, Jitendra, N, jins 
( Thaller j i , J nanananda. Boom .. 
Ohat.tiorji, Jyotish Ch, ba 
Chatterjee. Kalidas, ma, bl 
( T harterji. Kaniakshya P, hsc 
C hatterjee, Kamalrsh, BA 


Asstt Master, Scottish Church Sc hool 
IT. ]). C. Telegraph Check Office 

Auditor, A G's office. West Bengal 
SCO, D AGP AT 

Clerk, B I Acts Dept, Maekiimon Mackenzie 
Private Go 

Asst t, Acclts Dept, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 
Asstt Teacher, Mitra Institution 
Clerk, I C I (India), Ltd 

U 1) C , I T Office 

U L) Clerk, D A C, P & T Office 
IT 1) Asstt, Dept of Agriculture & Prod notion, West 
Bengal 

V D C, D A G V & T 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 

Clunk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
V D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Asstt. Clerk, Income Tax Office 
Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 
S G C. {State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 


Chatter ji, Kamal Kumar, ba . . 
Chatterjee. Kashinath. BS( 
Cliatterji, Keshab (Chandra, BCom 
Chatterji, Krishna, Behari. MA,bt 

Chatterjee, Kmnarish Ch., BA 
Chatterji, Madan Mohan, ma 
Chatter ji. Madan Mohan, Bcojn 
(flatter ji, Makhanlal, BCom 
( That t erjee. Man j<>< >gopal. BBC 
Chatterjee, Mohit Mohan, BSC • • 
Chatterji, Monoranjan, bsc 

Chat terjee, Monormjan, ba . . 
Chatterji, Mukut. ma 
C hatterjee. Mukul Kanjan. BSC 
Chatterji. Naiidadulal, BA 

( Jli.it 1 ei j i , Nan a alia Nath, ba 
C hattel-joe Nemai Uatan, BA 
Chatterjee Ni ha ran Chandra, MA 
Chattel jee. Nirmal Kanti, BCOM 
( ’hat let jee, Nirmal Kanti, lisc .. 
( 'hat 1 erjee, Nnpeiidra Nath, BS( 
Chatterjee. ( hikarnath, M( -om 


Clerk, tirade II, Reserve Bank of India 

V 1) C, 1) A G V AT 

Audit or, A-G’s Office, West. Bengal 
Asstt Master, Hindu School 

V DC. Telegraph Cheek Office 

U I) Clerk, Controller of Coal Accounts 
(Jerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, (Jr 11. Reserve Bank of India 
C 1 ) C, Telegraph ( 'heck Office 

Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 

L D Asstt, Dept. of Agriculture A Food Production, 
W Be ngal 
Auditor, A G, W B 
Auditor, A G’s office, West Bengal 
IT DC, D AGP A T 

U 1) Asstt, Dept of Agriculture & Food Production, 
\V Bengal 

Asstt, Lovelock & Jicwes 
r DC, IT Office 

Asstt Teacher, St Kaviei s ( ’ollegtate School 
Clerk B, C K S C Ltd 
Aectt, A G, W B 
C D C, D A G P A T 
Inspector, L T office, W B 


C\ latterjee, Prakasii Ch, ma (iccoii) Inspector, 1 T office-, W B 
( ,'hat (.oi jcc. t’rakash K . , MS( ! . . Domonos, Surondra Nath ( lollog.; 


Chatterji, Prafulla Kumar, ba . 

Chatterjee, Prit iranjan, BCom 
Chatterji, Pronoh Kumar, ncom 
Chatterji, Pronob Nath, ba 
Chatterjee, Proteep Kumar, Boom 
Chatterji, R N, ma 


Asst, Ministry of Industry A Supply, Iron & Steel 
Control 

(T I) C, l T office, W B 
Clerk, Hongkong A Shanghai Bank 
l T . D. C. Telegraph Chock Office 
Asstt, Lovelock A, Lewes 
U 1) Clerk, Tea Board 


Chatterji Kabindrn Nath, MA, . . 
Chatterji, Radha Kanta, BCom 
Chatterji, Iiajib Loclian, BCom 
Chatterji, Rakhaliari, BCom 
Chatterji, Rama Prasad, ba 
Chatterjee, Rtfhjit Kumar, BSC. . 


Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal . . 
Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India . . 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
U. D. Asstt, Education Directorate 
Head. Asstt, Geological Survey of India 
Chemist, West Bengal Public Health Laby 


73, Cornwall is Str^t 

33, DalhoiiHio Square 

Treasury Building 
7 Koilaghal Si i* <M q 

tr>, Strand I ’one! 

31 Chownnglirc ^,j 
60B, Surja Sen Street 

34, Chowrmghee 

4 Hastings Si reel 

7, Koilagluit Street 
Writers’ BuilduiL'h 

7 Koilaghal NIivh 

8, Council Utilise Ktree 
S, Council House Strr* 
8. Council House Sinn 

7, Koilaghat Street 
P-7, Chou nnglire Stp 
S, Council 1 1 ohm Stm 

32 Dalluuisie Sqi 
Soul li 

8, Council House Stree 
7 Koil aghal St i eel 

Treasury Biiildiiius 
IB, Bank n u Chaiterji 
Si ree* 

33 I )a I lu uisie St | ii. u t* 
1 , ( Toil ti<*il House Sire 
S. ( Toi 1 1 1 < * 1 1 I louse Strt 
8, Couiu i! House Sin* 

33 Dalhousn Si|iiu?c 
. 77 2 Pai k St I eel 

Writers limUm^ 


Treasury « »ui It lam 
Troasun Buildim.'" 

7 Koilaghat Stieel 
Writers’ BiiiMm^ 

4, Lyons lianuc 

P-S Bra.htiiirne I :.<>»• 
30 Park Street 


Victoria House 


Treasury BiuU'ii^ 
7 Koiliigli-i' ‘ s, " rl 
3 (Jovt L’lix' 1 ' 'V<>t 


3 Govt Pliur ' Vt,sl 


24-2 Main mm 
Road 
33, K< 1»J« 


(ii 


>vt !*l<‘ UV ’' 
'tolllollM 
,)all.ousir Sfl ^ 1 
yoJis Pallid 
and 3!), I''^ 

fX.oa.tl 

wiry l {llll ' lm(; “ 

Min'd Hou*- 
mined 11"^ S1 
tors’ B>‘d< ll,, « s 
3hoividig l1 ^ 
LtaniltD 11 



Names. 


61 


fo* 

( hatterjee, Sailendra Nath, bhc 
rhattterji, Sailondra Nath, bsc . . 
rhatterjee, Sailcsh Chandra, BA. 
(’hatterjee, Saktipada, ma 
( ji tatter ji, Sambhunath, bsc 
(' haurthuri, Sanat Kumar, BA(H) 
Chatterji. Sanat Kumar, ba 
rhatterjee, Sanat Kumar, BSC . 
Chntterji, Sankarlal, ba 
( H iatt crji, Santi Ram, ma 
C hatterji. Saroj Kumar, bsc 
( li.it t ci jee, Natyabrata, BA 
( 'luiitcrji, Satya Ranjan, ba 
C hatterji, Nhyamtosh, bsc 
(' hatterjee, Si Uil Prosad, BA 
Chatterji, Sitangshu Deb, Bcx>m 
Chatterji, Subrata, ma 
rhatterjee, Sudhir Chandra, ba 
C hat ter jee, Sunil Chandra, Boom 
Chatterji, Sunil Darsan, ba 
C li.it tcrjec. Sunil Kr., BA 
Cli.it tcrji, Sunil Kumar, bsc 
t 'hattcrji, Tara Sankar, ba 

('li.ii h*r|cc, Topendra Kr.. BA 
( ’li .it i cr |cc, IMay Shankar. BSC 1 . . 
Chaudhuri, Aditya Kumar, ba 

Chinidhuri, A jit Ranjan, B('otn . . 
('h.uitlhury, Amal Chandra, msc 

Cli.cnllmri, Amarendrn Kr.. 
:\T< ()\T 

t 'liiim linn i. Amritlal, BA 
Ch.mdlmry, Ainuly (Chandra, Bsc 
Chain llmry, A uadi ProHad, ba 
( haiidtuiri. Ardhendu. BSC 
CIu!i<m|im* Aninananda, BS( 1 
t'liiMidliur,, Arim Kumar, ba 
< 'haudhun, Arun lvumar, ba 
C himdhnri, Asoke Kumar, bsc, 
Aicnrn 

( ’haudhuri, Bhahesh Ch., BA 
t'li.mdhuri, Bhanujyoti, ba 

t hmullmri, Bibhas, ma 

(1|,nU| llmri, Bibhuti Bhusau, BA. . 

( •'■"ulliuri Birendra Nath. BA, 
IJJS 

Uiuudhuri, Biswajit, bsc 
^ Imiidhuri, Chittaranjan, BA 

( haudlmri, Dhiresh Chandra, 
BCOM 

C'haiirlluri , Dipti Bhusan, BA 
CLuu dhuri, Gancgh Chandra, ba 
niau dl>uri, Gurupada, MCOM . . 

ttironmay, MA, BT . . 

Jjl'iMiilliiiri. Kalyan Kumar, B8C 
b.ttidluiri, Kalyan Prosad, MA . . 
Aiw.lbun, Manindra Prosad, ba 
bt'oM ^ ara ^ an Amritamaya, 
l'l | *udhuri, Nihar Kumar, ba 
_ wu'Hmn, Nisharanjan, BA 
^udhuri, Pankaj Kanti, BA .. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


Auditor, A G, W B 
Clerk A, C E S C Ltd 
Sr Asstt. Board of Secondary Education 
Inspector, I T office, W B 
Aectt, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
L D C, Directorate of Fisheries 
Supdt, Stationery Office 

l T D C, DALP&T 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Sr Asti, Board of Secondary Education 
Supvr, 1 T Ofliee 

IT I) Asstt, Board of Revenue, West. Bengal 
Asstt, Local Sell -Gov eminent 

U D 0, Telegraph Check Office 
Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

V I) 0, I T office, W B 

1 1 D Asstt, Education Dept 
Steno, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 

V I) C, 1) A G P & T 

IT D Asstt, Hovne (Special) Deptt 
U D Clerk, 1) A G, V & T Ofliee 
IM)(MT Office 

Jr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 

Asstt, Land Reforms Branch , Kind Ar Kind Kevcmic 
Dept 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Inspector, l T ofliee, W B 
l T 1) (\ Telegraph Check Office 

C DC.IT Office 

Auditor, A G’s Ofliee. West, Bengal 
U l) Clerk, Govt of India Stat ionery Office 
Asstt. Office of 1 T O S 1 B 
Asstt. Law (Judicial) Kept 
Clerk, (Jr 11, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Asstt Secy (Finance), Board ol Secondary Education 


Treasury Buildings 
Victoria House 
77 2 Park St n*et 
R-H Bra bourne Rd 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers' Building 
3, Church Lane 

7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
77/2 Park Street 
P-8 Brahi xirnc Road 
Writers’ Buildings 
Writers' Buildings 
33 Ualhousie Square 
H. Council House Street 
S, Council House Street 
3 Govt Place West 
Writers’ Buildings 
(>, Church Lane 
7 Koilaghat St r«*et 
Writers’ Buildings 
7, Koilaghat Street 
S Brahourne Road 
77 2 Park Street 
Writers Buildings 

Treasury Buildings 
3 Govt Place West 
33 1 >a Ihoiisie Square 

P-S Bra, bourne Road 
Treasu r y B u i Id i i igs 
3 Church Lane 
P-7 ( Ihowrmghee Square 
Writers* Buildings 

8, (I amcil House Street, 
Treasury Buildings 
77, 2 Park St 


U I) (\ Govt of India Forms Press 

Asstt, Land Belonns Braneh, Land Ar Land Rev. 
Dept 

Auditor, AG, W B 
Asstt. Office of I T O S T B 
Ins. I T Ofliee 


I Temple Street 
Writers* Buildngs 

Treasury Buildings 
P-7 Chowringhoe Square 
3 < Jovt Place West 


Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Sr Asstt. Board of Secondary Education 

Asstt, Land Acquisit ion Bi , Land & Land Revenue 
Dept, West Bengal 
Auditor, A G, W B 

Hd Asstt, Finance Dept 
V I) (\ State Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd 

Asstt Teacher, Oriental Seminary 

U I) C, 1) A G P & T 
IT D C, I) A G P & T 
Clerk Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Kind Revenue Br 


Treasury Buildings 
77/2 Park Strict 
Writers’ Buildings 

Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
32 Dalhoiisjc Square 
South 

33(1 Upper Chitpur 
Rd. 

7 Koilaghat Stnvt 
7 Koilaghat, Street 
8, Council House Street 
Writers’ Buildings 


Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal . . Treasury Buildings 

U 1) C, J T Office • • 3 Oo\ I, Pla.ee 'Vest 

U D C, Dept of Agriculture & Food Production . . Writers’ Buddings 



No. 


Names. 


Style or calling, 




Residence or pUoev 
business. * 


Chaudhuri, Praja Ranjan, ba 
Chaudhuri, Prasantakumar 
Chaudhuri, Prasim, B Corn 
Chaudhuri, Pronov Ranjan BA, 
LLB 

Chaudhury, Prosenjit Kumar, ba 
Chaudhuri. Pumondu Bikash, ba 
Chaudhuri, Raghabinda ba (Hons) 
Chaudhuri, Tlatnondra Kishore. 
BC< )M 

Chaudhuri. Ranendra Nath 
Chaudhuri, Samir Kanta 
Chaudhury, Samir Kumar, bsc 
Chaudhuri, San tosh Kumar, bsc 
Chaudhuri, Sripati Ranjan, 
MCOM 

Chaudhuri, Subodh Ch, BCom 
Chaudhuri, Sukomal N, BA 
Chaudhuri, Sunil Behary, MA 
Chaudhuri, Sunil Kr, bsc 
Chaudhuri, Tara Nath, ba 
C haudhuri, Thakokrishna, BA 
Chaudhun, Tinkari, MA 
Chidanandam, I), BA, MBA 


U D Asstt, Tron and Steel Control 
Chief Aeett, Airways India Ltd 
Inspector, 1 T office, W B (Range I) 

Auditor, A C Bengal 

Auditor, A-G’s Office 
Ins, I T Office 

Hd Clerk, Smoko Nuisance Directorate 
Asstt, West Bengal Provincial Co-operative Bank 
Ltd 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Assistant, Tata Tron & Steel Co 
Auditor, A-G’s Office 
Auditor, A-G *s Office, T K I, West Bengal 
Ins. I T Office 

Staff Asstt, Reserve Bank of India 

Hd Asstt, Geological Survey ofTndia 

Auditor, A G Bengal 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

IT D Clerk, Commissioner of Excise office 

V \) C, Telograh Chock Office 

Auditor, A G Bengal 

Asstt, Purchase Dept, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 


33, Netaji Subhas 
I , Hastings St 


R<mi 


3, Govt Place West, 
Treasury Building*' 


Treasury Building 
3 Govt Place West 
(iO-B arnwringh,,. ){( 
](» Old (nu rt ^ 


Street 


4, Bankshall St 
23 B, Netaji Suhlias 
Treasury Buildings ^ 
Treasury Building* 

P-S Brabourm Rd 


H, Council 1J < mi. sc gthn,t 
27 Chowringhec 
Treasury Buildings 
8, (Council House Street 
Writers' Buildings 
33 Dalhousie Sfjuarv 
Treasury Buildings 
31 Chowringhec ltd 


D 


Dakshi, Satyendu, BSC 
Dalui, Santosh Kumar, bsc 
Darn, Bbabondra Narayan, ba . 
Dam, Sunil Kumar, BSC 1 

Darn Chaudhuri, Nirmal (Hi, BA 
Das, A jit Kr., MSC 
Das, A j it Kr, BSe 
Das, Amulya Chandra, Boom 
Das, Anath Nath, I5S( T 
Das. Anil Oh., MA. LLB 
Das, Anil Kumar. BCOM 
Das. Anil Ivumar(l), BA 
Das, Anukul Chandra, ba 
Das, Asoke Kr, B Com 

Das, Aswini Kumar, ba 
Das, Bankim Chandra. BA 

Das, Burindra Kumar, ba 

Das, Bijan Kumar. BSC 

Das, Boni Madhab, BA 

Das, Bhairat Kr., BSC 

Das, Bhabaranjan, BA 

Das, Bhowani Oh, use 

Das, Bhupondra Nath, BSC, LL 

Das, Cliarupada, BA 

Das, Bikash Chandra. BA 

Das, Chittaranjan, use 

Das, Dliarmanarain, MA 

Das, Gonesh Chandra, BCom 

Das, Copal Chandra, BSe 

Das. Gouranga Behari, BA 

Das, Gour Copal, BA 

Das, Jahar Lai, noom 

Das, Jitendra Nath, MCOM 

Das, Jyotirmoy, BCom 

Das, Jyotish Ch, Bt om 

Das, Kalipada, ba 

DaB, Kaloratan, ba 

Das, Kalyan Kumar, MOotn 

Das, Kama laranj an, BA 
Das, Kartick Chandra, ba 
D as, Khagendra Nath, ba 
D as, Kshetra Median, 


Asstt, Directorate of Punchayats 
Auditor, A-(Ps Office, West Bengal 
U D Asstt, Medical Br, Health Dept 
IT D 0, State Transport Corpn of (I) Lid 

0 DO, 1 T office, WB 
. V l> < f . D A G P & T 
Inspector, I T office W B 
Hd Asstt, Registrar of Co-operative Societies 
0 D O. Telegraph Chock Office 
1 T D (\ I) A C ; P & T 
Auditor, A G Bengal 

Sr. Asstt., Board ol Secondary Education 
IJ 1) Asstt, 0o-< operative Directorate 
IT D Asstt, Animal Husbandry & Veterinary 
Services. 

Clerk, Macncill and Barry, Ltd 

D A, Marketing Officer. Agricultural Marketing. 
West Bengal 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 

V l) 0, Telegraph Cheek Office 

L 1) Asstt. Medical Br, Health Dept 

V 1) (\ DAfJP&T 
IJ DC, IT Office 

Auditor. A-G b office, West. Bengal 

V I) 0, D A G P & t 
S upvr, I T Office 

V D C, D A G V & T 

Hr Asst t, Board of Secondary Education 

V DO, D AG P& T 
Asstt, Lovelock & Lewes 
S A S, A-G, W B 

U D C, I T Office 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Clerk, I C I (India), Ltd 
IT J) O. D AOP&T 
Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade 1, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, ACES C, Ltd 

IT D Asstt, Dept of Agriculture & Food Production, 
W Bengal 

Asstt, Directorate of Panchayats 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
8 (SC., D A-G, P & T Office 
Auditor, A-G’s Office 


\\ l iter's Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buddings 

32 Dalhousie N<|um 
S outh 

3, Govt. Place West 
7 Koilaghal Street 
3, Govt Plare West. 
New Secretarial Diuldingi 

33 Dallioush S> j uai r 
7 Kidlaghat Shed 
Tivsijsry Buildings 
77, 2 Bark Si led 

Nov\ Secretariat Umklingil 
Writers’ Build mil's 


2, Fairlie Place 
Writers’ Buildings 


8, Council House Street 
33 Dalhousie Square 
Writers’ Buildings 
7 Koilaghal Stm t 
P-7 Chow ringliee SqiiM* 
Treasury Buddings 
7 Koilaghal Mrcet 
P-7 Ohov\ ringhd* Square 
7 Koilaghal Stm-t 
77/2, Park Street 
7 Koilaghal Street 
4, Lyons Range 
Treasury Bids 
P-S Brahourue Read 

7, Koilaglmt Street 
34, Chowringhec Jk wwl 

7 Koilaghal Street 

8, Council House Stree 
8, Council House .Street 
Treasury Building* 
Victoria House 
Writers’ Building* 


Writers’ Building* 
Treasury Building* 
7, Koilaghat Street 

Treasury Build"* 





Name*. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or plaoe of 

business. 


1)A8i Kshitish Chandra, 

Pas, Maldian Lai, bsc 

p. is Manindra Nath, BA 

pas. Manga 1 Kumar. BA 

Pas. Monorail jan, BA 

pas. Monoranjan, MCOM 

Pas, Moiioranjan, BOOM 

p as ’ Mukul Kanti BSC 

j)J, s ' Nakshatra Bhusan, MA 

j)as, Nani Gopal II, BSC 

j)a S N.iresli Chandra, use, caiib 

Pius, Netai (.hand, BA 

p a s, Nirinal Kantj, MA 

pa.., Nitya Gopal, BA 

]>as. Parish Chandra, ha 

j)as, parimal Oil, Ba 

pas, Pari tosh, bsc 

pas, Pnd u Ha Kama!, BA 

pas. Pranab Kumar, bsc 

Pas, Piasanta Chandra, BA 

|)as. Prosanta Kr.. BSC 

Das, Provash Ch, BA 

Pat>, Rabuidra Nath, Boom 

Pas 1 la« Ilia Mohan, BA 


Pas. Piwlhasam, BA . . 

Pas, Ramgopal, bsc 
Die lhtineudra Ch., BA 
: Pas, Ramendra Nath, ba 
D ie*. Da mesh Chandra, MA, LLB 
! Pas, Rudreswar, ba 
; Das, Salil Kr., BA 
Dus Samar-jit, BSC 
Das Siimblm Nath. MA 
! Das, Samir Kumar, BA 
I Das Sunt i Bhusan. MSC 
I Da- N.is*mka Mohan, BSC 
| !>•«- Sai \ ra ( *1 1 . . M(*OM 
j D.i/. SI i hapada. BSC 
j D.is Sid< Ihesw ar, Bsc 
Dus, Snhodh Kumar, Boom 
\ Das, Sulumal, MA LLB 
iji.is, Siidlunshu Mohon, BA 
lUs Siidlm Chandra III, BCOM 
has .Siidlm* Kanti, BA 
has, Siidlm } {A 
has, S-fL'I.i j t i; A 


h;^ S.iirsh Chandra, BSC 

has, Susliil K, ma 

hus, Sustiil Chandra, bsc 

P Hs * V.n.ithu Molian 

1>a * Sul, has Kusu 

BS( 1 

Ijw Ciidiullmry, Jadmiatli, bcoi 
p A jit Kr, B A 
“s Gupta, Ajit .Shankar, ba 

Amiya Kumar, BOC 

fcji" 1 "'" Ardhondu, BSC 
L ( ' Ul)l:l Asish Kumar, MA 
K Ashil K “mar, BSC.: 

P'. 1 "" Kr. Boom 

bas/*' ,,,t l ’ Beno, l° Hanjan, Bfr 
^ n '' l,a ’ Kiraj Bhuaan, bsc 

( '|' it taranjan, ma 
tasGuni ' J lyarl ' BSC 

u Pta. B 


Prog Secretary, All India Radio 

Auditor. A-G’s office, West Bengal 
U D C IT Office, W B . . 

Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept 
IT D C.DAGF&T 

Auditor, A (J Bengal . . 

Hd Asstt, Registration Directorate 
Auditor, A-G, W B 
Auditor, A-G, W B 
Acctt, 1) A G P & T 
Clerk, (trade IT, Reserve Bank of India 
L R Cl, Chief Engrs Office, Corpn of Calcutta 
U 1) C, DAGP&T 
U 1) C, Telegraph Check Office 
Utility Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
11 J) Asstt, Education Directorate 
Assistant, Co-operative Directorate, West Bengal 
U I> C, D A G P & T 
LI) C. Commerce & Industries Deptt 
Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
IT T) C, Telegraph Check Offite 
U D Clerk, Govt of India Stationery Office 
Ledger Keeper, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 
Head Clerk, Associated Electrical Industries (India), 
Ltd 


All India Radio, Eden 
Gardens 

Treasury Buildings 

4, 1 1 ust mgs St root 
YVnters Buildmgs 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 

Writ oi s' Buildigns 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buidings 
7 Koilaghat Street 

5, Council House Street 
o, S N Banerjee Road 

7 Kodaghat Street 
33 Dalhoiis.c Square 
b, Church Lane 
\\ i it< i s Buildings 
New Scott Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Writers' Buildings 
77 '2 Park Street 
*1*1 Dallioiisic Square 
3. Church Lane 
B4, GiJ lander House 
(>, Mission Row 


Clerk, Burmah Shell O S & 1) Co, Ltd 

Asstt, L R Branch, Land and Land Revenue 

IT D C, Income Tax Office 

l T I) Asstt, Education Directorate 

L D Asstt, Home (Passport) Dept 

Asstt, Land & Land Revenue Deptt 

L DC.DAGF & T 

II D C, D A G P &. T 

Ins, Income Tax Oil ice 

Auditor, A-G, W B 

II I) C, D A G P & T 
II I)C\DAGP &■ T 
L 7> < \ Govt of India Forms Press 
U DC, Telegraph Check Office 
L D O, (hmm(*rw‘ & Industries Deptt 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Inspector, I T Offices W B 
Clerk, E Rly 
IT D C. DA G P & T 
Supdt, Board of Secondary Education 
U D CU rk. D A-G, P & T Office 
C D Assistant, Animal Husbandry & Yetenary 
Services, West Bengal 
L D C, Income Tax Office? 

Sec Head, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 


Hongkong House 
Writers' Buildings 
P-7 ( 'how ringhee Square 
Writers’ Buildings 
MA Free School St 
Writers' Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Street 
7 Kodaghal Street 
3 Govt Place* West 
r l ’re *a s u ry Bui ldings 

7 Kolaghat Ntm*t 
7 Koilaghat Street 
I Temple Street 
33 lialhoiisie Square 
Writers' Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
‘1, Govt Place West 
Eastern Rly House 
7 Koilaghat; St.reet 
77/2, Park SI reel 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Writers' Buildings 

P-7 ( 'how ringhee Square 
b, Church Lane 


L D Asstt, Co-operation Dept, West Bengal Writers' Buildings 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd . . 4, Bankshall St 

Asstt, West Bengal Provincial Co-operative Bank lb Old Court House 
Ltd Street 


Asstt Secy, Board of Secondary Education 
Asstt, Court of Small Causes of Calcutta 
Auditor, A-G’s Offioe, West Bengal 
Security Clerk. Central Bank of India Ltd (New 
Market Br) 

U D C. D A G P & T 
Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Ed ication 
U |> (', D A G P & T 
Clerk Grade ff, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Burmah Shell O S & D Co, Ltd 
Clerk, Burmah Shell O S & I) Co, Ltd 
Clerk, Imperial Chemical Industries (India), Private, 
Ltd 

U D C, Income Tax office 
U D C, D A G P & T 
U D C, Income Tax Office 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 


77/2, Park Street 

2, Bankshall Street. 
Treasury Buildings 
lb Lindsay Street 

7 Koilaghat Nt.r<**t 
77/2, Park Street 
7 Koilaghat Street. 

S, Council House Street 
Hongkong House 
Hongkong House 
24, i 'how r inghee 

3, Govt Place, West 
7 Koilaghat Street 

3 Govt P (act* West 

Treasury .Building# 



No. 


Name*. 


u 


Style or oalling. 


Reeidenoe or pL, 
business. 


Das Gupta, Jyotirmay, BA 
Das Gupta, Kamal Kanti, BSC 
Das Gupta, Kanti Priya, BSC 
Das Gupta, Miliir Kr., BA 

Das Gupta, Mrinal Kanti, BSC 

J>as Gupta, N 
J )as Gupta Mrinal K, bsc 
Das Gupta, Nirojbnhari, bsc 
Das ( riipta, S, Boom 


U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
IJ D C, Education Directorate 
Acctt, D A G P & T 

Hd Clerk, J, A Dept, Commissioner’s Office, Pre- 
sidency Division. VV Bengal 
XT D Asstt, Dept of Agriculture & VmA Production, 
W Bengal 

A M(Teeli) Govl of India. Forms Press 
Clerk Gr 1, Reserve Bank of India . • / 

Accl t, A-G s Office, West Bengal 
IJ D Clerk, Tea Board 


Das Gupta, Santosh Kumar, Boom 
Das Gupta, Sadhan, BSe 
Das Gupta, Satya flan jail, BSC .. 
Das Gupta, Satya Ranjan, Boom 
Das Gupta, Sukanti Charan, bsc 
Das Gujita, Subimal, BSC, LLB 
Das Gupta, Sunil Kumar 
Das Gupta, Sunil Kumar, ma 
I >as Gupta, Taraknath, BA 
Das Roy, Rabindra Chandra, Boom 
Das Sarnia, Hem Chandra, ba 
Das Sharma. Moiiotosh, BSC 
J>as Sinha, A r un (Chandra, BA . . 

Dastidar, Kamakhya Kumar, bsc 

Dawn, Saroj Kumar, use 

l)e, A jit Kumar, ba 

De, Ajit. Kumar, ba . . 

j*-, Amiya Kumar, BSC 

De, Arun Kumar, ma 

De, Ashutosh, MA (Com) LI-B . . 

De, A v anti Bhusan, ma 

|)e, Bunkim Chandra 

De, Bhupendra Ch. ba 

Bimal Kumar, MA,BT 
De, Chitta ranjan, BA 
De, Deb Narayan, BSC 
De, Dhirendra Nath, ba 
|)e. Diptimoy. BSC, BE 

|)e, Dulal Krishna, Boom 

De, Dulal Chandra, BCOM 

De, Gopi M, Boom 

]>e, Harendra Nath, bsc 

De, llarihar, BA 

De, Jatindra Lai, msc, bt 


Clerk, Grade IT, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade 11, Reserve Bank of India 
Supervisor, C E S C, Ltd 
Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 
U D Asstt, Education Directorate 
L D (\ I T Office 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace &> Go Ltd 
Auditor, A-G’a Office, West Bengal 
IT D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, ( /lass II, Controller of Coal Accounts Office . . 
[T D C. D A G P K T 

Hd Gnk, Rev Dept, Commissioner's Office, Presi- 
dency Division 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Acctt, D A-G,P & I s Office • • 

Super, D A-G, P & T Office 
Clerk, Grade 11, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, ( ’ommerce & Industries Dept 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Inpseetor, C 1 ’fax Office, W B. . 

Eaxminer, Gr 11, Reserve Bank of India 
Asst t, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Statistics Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Asstt Teacher. St Xaviers' Collegiate School 
IJ I) Asstt, Education Dept 
U D Asstt, Education Dept 
Supdt, Geological Survey of India 
Asstt Engr, (Civil) Planning & Dev Dept, Corpn 
of Calcutta 

IT I) Asstt, Home 1 )eptt, Transport 
Asstt, Commerce A Industries Dept 
Clerk, Gr J 1 , Rescr\e Bank ol India . . 

V D Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

V l> (\ Telegraph Check Office 
Asstt Master, Hindu School 


7, Koilaghat Ntr^ 
Writers’ Binldni L r. 

7 Koilaghat Stn-n 
11 Net-aji Suhhas 

Writers’ Buildup 

1 Temple St i <-«*t 

8, Council lion < sti^ 
Treasury Building 
27 and 2!t 

Road 

8, Council House Strt 
8, Council Roust st^ 
Victoria House 
8, Council House ^ 
Writers’ Bui Id mgs 
P-7 Chowrindin 
4, Bankshall Street 
Treasury Building 

7, Koilaghat St reel 

8, Council Houm- Strn 
1 , Council Houn Slid 
7 Koilaghat Sum 

1 1 Netaji Salih, i . Iin.ii 

8, Council Houm' >S trn 
7, Koilaghat Sturt 

7, Koilaghat St, h-m 

8, Council House Nit 
Writers* Buildm ■ 
Treasury Bwilduu/s 
4, Hasting Street 

8, Council IIoiin N.'i 

4, BaiiAshal Si n*t*' 

6, Church Bant 
30 Park Street 
Writers 1 Buildup' 
Writers' Buildime 
27, Chow nut: her- 
f> S N Banei |ec 

Writers' BiiiMm^ 
Writers Building 
8, Ceuta n H<>um ^ 
33, Dalhousic Sipiait 
33 DalhouMc Sqai' v 
IB, Bankim M }llt 
Street 


De, Jogcsh Ch, BCOM 
De, Kalipada, ba, bl 
De, Kali Prasad, ba 
J>e, K ana i la I, MCOM 
Do, Manaliendra Nath, bsc (H) 

De, Matilal. BSC 1 
De ; Milendra Chandra, BA 
De, Monoranjan, BA, LLB 
De, Naresh Chandra, MA 
De, Nemai Gopal, ba 
Do, Nil Mohan, Boom 
De, Niranjan Bikash, ba DIP, LLB 
De, Parimal Kumar, ma, Boom 


Asstt, Directorate of Panebayats 
Cal (dilation Clerk, Rallis India, Ltd 
S G C Clerk, D A-G, V & T Office 

V D C, 1 T Office 
Acctt, Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 

V D C, I> A G P & T 
Hd. Asstt, Geological Survey of India 
U 1) 0, C l Office, W B 

D'.st Organiser. National Savings Organisation, W B 
Clerk, Burmah Shell 0 S & D Go, Ltd 


Writer s building 

16, Hare Street 

7, Koilaghat Street 
3 Govt Plan* " rhl 

7 Koilaglwd Stnet 
7 , Koilagl».‘d Smet 
27, Chowrintrlie** 

4, Hastings Street 

Hindus' ' Bu “' 


Hong K° n t r 


lions* 1 


Accounts Clerk. Alkali & Chemical Corpn of Indift 1/1 p u il« 8 

4, Lyon 8 I*"#® 


J" 


,lr. Tech. Asstt & Librarian, Secretariat library 
Asstt, Lovelock & Lewes • • 



No. Names. 

Do, Prafulla Kumar, BA 
De, Pravash Chandra, BSC 
De, Rajballav, bsc 
De, Ramapati, BSc 

De, Ranjit Kumar, bsc 
De, Rases war, ba 
1 >e, Sachindra Nath, ficom 

I) e, Sahadev, BSC 

Do. Santoah Kumar, b< om 
De, Sudhin Chandra BA(H) 

D<\ Sudliindra Nath, BSC 
De, Sukhundu Bikash, Bcom 
De, Sukumar, BA 
De, Sunil Kumar, 
i)e, T K, bsc 

De, Tarak Nath, ba 

J) e, "J’ us ha r Kanti, msc 
De Sarkar, Mihir Dal, ba 
De Sarkar, R C 

De Sarkar, Shvamai Kr, BCOM . 

Deb, Hrishikesh, ma 

Deb, Nihar Chandra, ba 

Deb, Sukumar, ba 

Deb, Suresh Chandra, BSC 

Deb Biswas, Abhijit Ranjan, BSC, 
LLB 

Deb Gupta, Samarendra Nath, 
Boom 

Debnath, Banamali, MCOM 
Dcbnath, Dhirendra Kumar, BSC 
Debnath, Gopal Chandra, BOom 
Dcbnath, Nagendra Chandra, MA 
Debnath Nirmalendu, MCOM 
Deb Rai, Sunil Baran, BSC" 

Dhar, Aloke Nath, ba 
Dhar, Auiruddha, Boom 
Dhar, (lour Chandra 
Dhar, Phani Bhuaan, BA 

Dhar, Pijush Kanti, use 
Dhar, Sudliindra Nath, MA 
Dhole, S autos h Kumar, Bcom 
l>utt, A, Boom 
Butt,, A B, bsc 
ButUi, Aehal Kumar, BCOM 
Butt, Aliindra Lai, BSC 
Butt, Ajit Kumar, ba 
Butt, Ajit Kumar, BCOM 
Butt, Amar Kumar, ba 
Butt, An u^rem Ira Nath, BA, BT 
Butt, Amitabha, Moom 
Butt., Amritalal, ba, 

Butt, AmmeaYv Chandra , MA 
Butt, Anath Nath, ba 
Butta, Anil Baran, bsc 
Butta, Ardhendu Narayan, BSC. . 
Dutt > Ashoke Kumar, MA, LLB 


65 

Stylo or calling. 

. U D C, D A G P & T 
. UDC, DAGP&T 
. S G C D A-G, P & T Office 
. U D Clerk, Tea Board 

. Clerk, Burmah Shell O S & D Co, Ltd 
. Clerk, Burmah Shell O S & D Co, Ltd . . 

Audi tor,' A-G ’s Office, West Bengal 
UDC, DAGP&T 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Dist Organiser, National Savings Organisation, W B 
L D Asstt, Home (Passport) Dept 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U D C, I T Office 

Clerk, The Hongkong & Shanghai Bank 
L D Clerk, Tea Board 

Asstt., Local Self-Govt Dept, West Bengal 
Clerk, Burmah Shell O S & D Co, Ltd . . 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt Engr, Drainage Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 
Clerk B, C E S C Ltd 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Finance Dept 
Ledger-Keeper, Brooke Bond India, Ltd 
Clerk B, C ESC Lid 
IT D C, I T Office 

Clerk, Burma Shell O S & D Co, Ltd . . 

U D C, I T Office 
13 D Asstt, Education Dept 
Clerk, Grade 1 , Reserve Bank oi India . . 

Acctt, A-G, W B 
UDC, DAGP&T 
Ins, I T Office 

Order, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, James Finlay & Co 
Acctt, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 

U 1) Asstt, Home Deptt (Transport) 

U D C, D A G P & T 
Clerk Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt Accountant., Tea Board 
Chemist, I C J (India), Ltd 
Asstt Secy, Board of Secondary Education 
U D C, 1 T Office, W B 
Clerk Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Ref Clerk, A-G, W B 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Payroll Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co, Ltd 
Clerk Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

\3 I) C, D AGP &T 
Auditor, A-G’b Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U D Asstt, Home (Poll) C R Dept 
L. D. Clerk, Administrator-General and (Ml. 
Trustee, West Bengal 


Residence or plaoe of 
business* 

. 7 Koilaghat Street 

7 Koilaghat Street 

7, Koilaghat Street 

27 and 211, Braboun 
Road 

Hongkong llou^e 
Hongkong House 
Treasury Buildings 
7 Koilaghut Street 

8, Council House Street 
Hhulusthan Buildings 

1 1 A Free School Street 
Treasury Buildings 
1" 7 Chowringheo Square 
.‘11 , Dalhousie Square 

27 and 21), Brabourn 
Road 

Writers’ Buildings 
Hongkong House 
8, Council House Street 
f>, S N Banerjee Road 
Victoria House 
8, Council House Street 
Writers* Buildings 
2, Metcalfe Street 
Victoria House 
J Govt Place West 

H ongkoi ig 1 louse 

P-8 Brabourne Road 
Writers’ Buildings 
8, Council House Street 
Treasury Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Stroot 
P-8 Brabourne Road 
0, Church Bane 
8, Council House Street 

2, Notaji Subhas Road 

32 Dalhousic Square 
South 

Writers’ Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Street 
8, Council House Street 
27 & 21), Brabourne Rd 
34, ( Iiowringhee 
77/2 Park Street 

3, Govt Place West 

8, Council House Street 
Treasury Buildings 

7, Koilaghat Street 
♦5, CJmi eh Lane 

8, Council House Street 

33, Dalhousie Square 
South 

7 Koilaghat. Street 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers' Buildings 
I Hunting* Street, iOtib 
Floor, Calcutta 



Names. 

Dutt, Banbehari, BA 

Dutt, Bejoy Krishna, BA 

Dutta, Benoy Krishna, BSC, BCOM 

I)utta, Biswanath BSC 
Dutt, Bikas Kumar, BCOM 
Dutta, Dub Ran j an, MA 

Dutta, Dibynndu Bhusan, BSC . . 

Dutta, Chunilal, BCOM 
Dutta, Dubkumur, BSC 
Dutta, Dwijondra Nath, BSC 
Dutta, Dilip Kr, BSC 
Dutta, Gangadhar, BSC 
Dutta, Gopi Ballav, BA 

Dutt, Hiranendu Kr, ba 
Dutt, Hrishikesh Nath, BA 

Dutt, India Pada, BSC 
Dutt, Jibendranath, use 
Dutta, Jitondra Kumar, BA 
Dutt, Kalipada, ma 
Dutt, K. K. 

Dutt, Kalya n Kumar, ma 
Dutt, Kamal Kumar, BOom 

Dutt, Kauai Lai, ucom 
Dutt, Karunapada, MA 
Dutt, Lakshin i Narayan, RSe 
Dutt, Lai it Mohon, IT, bhc 
Dutt, Madhusudan, ba 
Dutt, Manindra N , bl 
D utt, Monoranjan, bsc 
Dutta, Mrinal Kanti, BSC' 

Dutt, Nabo Kumar 
Dutta, Nanda Lall 
Dutt, Nirmal Chandra, Bcx>m 
Dutta, Nirmal Kr., BSC 
Dutt, Nirodo Baran, ma, bl, 

Dutt , Nityananda, BSC 
Dutta, Nri}H‘iidra Nath, BSC 
Dutt, Paresh Nath, bsc 
Dutta, Pro tap, BA 
Dutta, Probodh Chandra, MA 
Dutt, Rabindra Krishna, Boom 
Dutt, Rabindra Nath, MA 
Dutta, Rajendra Mohan, MA 
Dutt, Sailetidra Prosad, Boom 
Dutta, Sanat Kumar, BSC 
Dutt, Santosh Kumar, BSC 
Dutt, Santosh Kumar, ba 
Dutta, Saroj Kumar, MCOM 
Dutt, Satish Chandra, ba 
D utt, Saumondra Bh, boom 
Dutt, Shanti Gopal, ba . , 


66 

Style or ca l l i ng. 


Residence or pl&oe of 
business. 


Inspector, Election Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 
Auditor, A-G, W B 
Asstt, I T Office 


. . 5 S. N. Banerjee Road 

. . Treasury Buildings 
. . P-7 Chowringhoe Square 


UDC, D AG P & T . . . . 7 Koilaghat Street 

Auditor, A-G, W B . . . . • • Treasury Buddings 

Offioer, Central Bank of India Ltd, Now Market 10 Lindsay Street 
Branch 


Asstt, A/C Dept, Life Ins Corpn of India, Sun Life 
Life Assurance Co of Canada 

Insepotor, I T Office 
UDC, DAGP&T 
U D C, Telegraph Check Office 
UDC.DAGP&T 
Ins, I T Office 

Clerk, Central Bank of India Ltd, New Market 
Branch 

Clerk, Turner Morrison A Co, Private Ltd 


23B Netaji Kuhl lJt[ , 
Road 

P-8 Brabourne Road 
7 Koilaghat Street 
33 Dalhousio Square 
7 Koilaghat Street 
P-8 Brabourne Road 
10 Lidsay Street 

b, Lyons Range 


Cor Cl., Chief Engr’s Dept, Corpn of Calcutta . . 5, S N. Banerjee Road 

Hoad Asstt, West Bengal Secretariat, Education Dept Writers' Buildings 
Auditor, A-G's Office, West Bengal . . . . Treasury Buildings 


U I> C, D A G P A T 


7 Koilaghat Street 


Clerk Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 


8, Council House Street 


Asstt Engr, Drainage, Corpn of Cal 

Inspector, Income Tax Offic*o 

Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 

Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank ol India 


5, S N Banerjee Hoad 
P-7, Chowringhoe Squan 
8, ( 'oimcil House St red 
8, Council House Street 


IT D C, Office of C I T, West Benga' . . 

Asstt Valuer, Calcutta Improvement Trust- 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P A T Office 
Ledger Keopcr, State Bank of India . . 

U I) 0, Stationery Office 
Clerk Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
IT D C, Telegraph Check Office 
Asstt, James Finlay A Co 
A M (Adm), Govt of India Forms Press 
Asstt, Iron A Steel Control 
U D C, I T Office 
Asstt, Iron A Steel Control 
Inspector, Collection Dept, Corpn of Cal 
UDC, Telegraph Chock Office 
S D C, D A-G, PAT Office 
U D C, I T Office 
Ins, I T Office 

Clerk Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A-G, W B 

Asstt Master, Scottish Church Collegiate School 
Clerk, Burmah Shell O S & D Co, Ltd . . 

UDC, DAGP&T 
Auditor, A-G, W B 
U D Asstt, Home (Poll) Deptt 
Hd Asstt, Geological Survey of India 
Clerk, Baimor Lawrie A (To, Ltd 
Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 


7, Chowringhoe Square 
10, Netaji Subhas lluad 

7, Koilaghat Street 
Queen’s Mansions 
3, Church Lane 

8, Council House Street 
33 Dalhouse Square 

2, Netaji Subhas Howl 
1 Temple Street 
33, Netaji Subhas Hoad 
P-8 Brabourne Road 
33, Netaji Subhas Road 

5, S. N. Banerjee Road 
33 Dalhousie Square 

7, Koilaghat Street 

P-7 Chowringhee Square 
3 Govt Place West 

8, Council House Street 
Treasury Buildings 

73 Cornwallis Street 
Hong Kong House 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
27 Chowringhoe 

21, Netaji Subhas r,o-l 

6, Church Lane 
Treasury Buildings 



Names. 


07 

Style or oalling. 


p u tt, Shyamapada, Boom 
puli. Shayama Prasanna ba 
l)utt, Somendra Nath, bsc 
P utta, Sobodh Chandra 
p u tta, Subodh Kumar, BS ( .) 
Dut-t, Subrata, BSC, Boom 
putt. Sudhanshu Ratijan, BSc 
putt. Sudhindra Molian. ba 
putt. Sudhir Kumar, Boom 
Put tu, Sudhir Kumar, BA 

Putt, Sudhir Ranjan, bso 
P utt, Sukumar, Mcom 


Clerk, Grade I. Reserve Bank of India 
Hd Clerk Income-tax Office 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Directorate of Agriculture 
U D C. DAOP & T 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
IJ 1) Asstt, Income-tax Office 
S G Clerk. Telegraph ( -heck Office .. 

Clerk Gr. IJ, lit s< rve Bank of India 
Asstt, National Savings Officer, National Savings 
Organisation, \V B 
Home Deptt (Poll) Dept 
Clerk, Allahabad Bank Ltd 


putta. Sushi 1 Kr., BSC 
Putta, Sushil K, BA 
Putta, Tushar Kant.i, BSC 
putta Clioudhuri, Huron Chnadra, 


U D C, D A G P & T 
U D Clerk, Toa Board 
U D C, I) A G P & T 
Porg, Secy, All India Radio 


putta Gupta. Ashitava. BSC 
putt Gupta, Debabrata, Boom . . 
putt, (hipta, Nirode Kumar, ba 
P utt (hipta, Samiran, MA, BOOM 
Putta Roy, Chittaranjan, bsc 
putt Kay, Raines!) Chandra, ba 


Asslt . Office oi 1 T O, S 1 B 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Shellac Clerk, Rallis India, Ltd 

Auditor, Lovelock & Lewis 

Asstt- in -charge, Iron & Steel Control . . 

Steno, Standaid Vaeinnn Oil Co, Ltd 


G 


(him , Bareudra Nath, MA 
Ganguli, Abhayapada, ba 
Gangiili, A mal Kumar 
Ganguly, Arun K, ba 
U anguli, Asim Kr, ba 
Gauguli, A soke Kumar 
Ganguli, A soke Kr, bsc 
Ganguli, Basanta Kumar, ha 
GcUilmiIi. Baxudev, MCOM 
Giuiguh. Bojoy Kr, Moom 
Ganguli, Bejoy Kr, ba 


Ins, Income 'Tax Office 

U D Clerk, l) A-U, P & T Office 

Asstt . Directorate* of Agriculture 

IT Tf Clerk, D A-G, V AT Olhce 

U D Clerk, Tea Board 

Asstt, Directorate ol Agriculture 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Hd. Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept 

V D (\ D A G P & T 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

IT D Clerk, Telegraph Chock Office 


Ganguh, Bimala Prosad, Mrorn . . 
Gangijli, Bis \n a jit, BA 
Ganguh, Dlii ubajyoti, BCOM 
Ganguli, Gouranga Sundar, MCOM 


Ganguli, (Jour Gopal, BCorn 
Gauguli, Haridas, BSC 
Gauguli, Hariprosad, BSC 
^anguli, Jagadiswar, bsc 
Giiiguli. Kalidas, ba 
( * iuruh Kauai Ch., BSC 
Ganguli > Son jit Kumar, ba 
( ' a nguh, Keshablal, BA 


bwiguli, Khagendra Kumar Boom 
^nguli. Manindra Bhusan, MA 
G-uiinih. Mihir Kumar, bsc 
fnguli Mukunda Kumar, ba . . 
gauguli, Nanda'lal, Boom 
:’ an Kuli, Panchu Gopal, ba 
; ; an guli, Pranahcsh, MA, BL . . 
Rajeswar, ba 
Naehidulal 
Sachindra N., BSC 
Sankar Kr., MCOM 
Santimay, BCOM 
Sarit Kumar, MSC 
Saroj, Kr., BA 
ftekharendra Nath, MA. . 
Sisir, BSC 


C; 

c 

gauguli, 
Ganguli, 
ganguh, 
7 a ^uli, 

: an «uH, 
^Kuli, 
^nguli, 
Gar 


Clerk, Grade 11, Reserve Bank of India 
IJ I) Clerk, I) A-G, P & T Office 
U 1) C, Telegraph Chock Office, 

L 1) Asst t, Agriculture of Food Production Dept, 
West Bengal 

Clerk, Acctts Dept, Brooke Bond India, Ltd 
Jr Aeett , E Rly 
IT D Asstt, Education Dept 
U D Asstt, Medical Br. Health Dept 
Auditor. A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
IT D C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
U D C. Govt of India Forms Store 
Asstt, Life Insurance Corpn of India, Oriental 
Govt Security Life Assurance Go 
Sr. Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
Acctt, A-G, W B 

U D Asstt, Medical Br 1 lealtli Dept 
Clerk, SVPC, Martin Bum, Ltd 
Clerk Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Inpsector, I T Office, W B . . 

U D Asstt, Home (Poll) Dept, West Bengal 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
U D C, Telegraph (’heck Office 
Clerk, E Rlv 
U D C, I T Office, W B 
Auditor, A-G, W B 
Clerk A, 0 E S C Ltd 
U I) C, Telegraph Check Office 
Clerk A, C E S C Ltd 


Residence or plaoe of 
business. 

8, Council House Street 

7, Chowringhee Square 

8, Council House Street 
Writers' Buildings 

7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 

3, Govt. Place, West. 

33, Dallnmsio Square 
8, Council House Stm-t 

HindustJian Buildings 

Writers’* Buildings 
Allahabad Bank 

Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Street 
27 iNr 2b, Brabourne Rd. 

7 Koilaghat Street 
All India Radio. Eden 
Gardens 

P-7 Chowringhee Square 
Treasury Buildings 
lb, Hare Street- 

4, Lyons Range 

33, Netaji Subhas Road 
t>, Church Laaie 


4 Hastings St red 
7, Koilaghat Street 
W riters' Buildings 

7, Koilaghat Xtroei. 

27 & 21), Brabourne Rd. 
Winters' Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Strict 
Treasury Buildings 
33, Dalhousio Square, 
South 

8, Council House Street 

7, Koilaghat Sticct. 

33 Dalhousie Square 

Writers’ Buildings 

2, Metcalfe Street 
Eastern Rly House 
Writers’ Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
33 Dalhousie Square 
MU), Dhara in tala Street 

2 (’live* Row 

77/2, Park Street 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers* Buildings 
12, Mission Row 
8, Council House Street 

8, Council House Street 

3, Govt Place West- 
Writers’ Buildings 

4, Bankshall Street 
33 Dalhousie Square 
Eastern Rl\ House 

3, Govt Place W r est 
Treasury Buildings 
Victoria House 
33 Dalhoitsh Square 
Victoria House 



68 


No. 


Names. 


Style of calling. 


Residence or pW 
busing * 


Ganguly, Subrata BCom 
Ganguli, Sudhansu Mohan, ba . . 
Ganguli. Sudhir Chandra, BA 
Ganguli, Sukumar, boom 
Ganguli, Sunil Kumar, bsc 
Ganguli, Sushi 1 Kumar, BA 
Ganguli, Sushil Kumar, bs«* 
Ganguli, Sushil Kumar, MCOM . . 
Ganguli, Tarapada, ba 
G anguli, Tarun, Mcom 
Garai, Ajit Kumar, Boom 
Gayen, Khagendra Nath, BSC, BT 


Asstt, Lovelock & Lewes 
Jr Hd Asstt, Medical Br., Health Dept 
XT D Asstt, Education Directorate 
Clerk, Grade IT, Reserve Bank oi India 
Clerk Or. II, Reserve Bank of India 
U D C. I) A G P & T 
Clerk, Grade 11, Reserve Bank ot India 
L D Asstt. Home (Passport) Dept 
U D Clerk, D A-G, F & T Office 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 
V 1) C, I T Officer 


4, Lyons l; aj 
Writers* Kmldnl 
Writers' Buildup 
8, Council 
8, Council 1 1 oust S 
7 Koilaglun Sin'ct 
8, Council House S 
1 1 - A Frn ■ s,.j„ „,| 

7, Koilaghst Street 

8, Council House S 
8, Council House* S 
Income Tun i 

VA 


Ghatak, Akhil Bamlhu, BSC 
Ghatak, Panelm Gopal, BA, LLB 
Ghosal, Anan ta Kumar, ba 
G hosal. Araliinda, BA 
Ghosal, Batagopal ba 
Ghosal, Durgadas, BSC* 

Gliosal. Hirendra Nath, MA, BT 
Gliosal, Hi ran Kumar, BA 
Ghosal, Jibandhan, ba 
Ghosal, Joyanta Kumar, ba 
G hosal, Kanailal, BSC 
Ghosal, Narayan Padn, BA 
Ghosal, Pravash Chandra ba 
Gliosal, Kan jit Kumar, BSC 

Gliosal, Shvamal, MA 
Ghose, Abani Mohan, msc 
Ghose, Ajit K, bsc 
Ghose, Ajit Kumar, Boom 
( JhoHC, Akhil Kumar, MA 
Ghose, Amal Kr, BCom 
Glume, Amiya Kumar, MA 
Ghose, Amulya Chandra, bsc 
Ghose, Amulya. Ratan, msc 
Ghosh, Anil Kumar, bsc 
Ghose, Anil Kumar, ba 
Ghose, Anil Kumar, ma 
Ghose. Arabinda, BSC 
Ghose, Arabinda, Boom 
Glmse, Arun Kanti, BSC 1 
Ghosh, Arun Kumar, msc 
Ghose, Arun Kumar, ba, bl 

Ghose, Ashim Raujan, BA 
Ghose, A sit Ranjan, be, ce 
Ghose, Asia Kumar, Boom 
Ghose, Asok Bhusan, ba 
Ghose, A soke Kumar, BA 
Ghose. Asoke Kumar, BA 
Ghosh, Bansa Gopal, ma 
G hosh, Bana Bohari, bsc 
Chose, Be joy Ranjan, bsc 
Ghosh, Benoy Krishna, ba 
( ilio.se, Bhutesh Chandra, BSC 
Gh os li. Bijou Kr, ba 
Ghose. Bipradas, BA 
Ghose, Bimal Kumar, BSC 
Ghose. Biman Ranjan, BA 
(those, Beilin Krishna. BA 
Ghose. Birendrn Nath, MA,BT . . 
Ghost', Bireswar, BCom 
Ghose, Biswanath, ma (com) 
Ghose, Biswanath babt 

Ghose, Biswanath, ba 
G hose, Bisweswar, BCom 
Ghose, Chaitanya Charan, BCom 

Ghose, Debabrata, ba 
G hose, Debabrata, bsc 
Ghose, Debaki Kumar, BA 


Asstt, Requisition Br, Land & Land Rev Dept 
HIM 1 . DAGP&T 
Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
U D C, L) A G P & T 
U 1) C, D A G P & T 
Head Asstt, Home (Press) Dept 
Teaeher, Mit.ru Institution 

U D C, D A G P & T 

Clerk, Calcutta Improvement Trust 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Inspector, Collection l)ept, Corpn of Cal 
Ch Clerk, 0 P (VS Office, E Rly 
Hd Asstt, Commissioner of Excise Office 
F Inspector, Gr 11, State Transport. Corpn c>T ludiu 
Ltd 

IT DC, IT Office 
Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Land & Land Revenue Dcptt 
Supdt, Geologiea 1 Survey of India 
U D Clerk, Tea Board 
Auditor. A G Bengal 

Statistical Asstt, Office of the Labour Commissioner 
Clerk, Grade II. Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, Standard Vacuum Oil Co, Ltd 
Accountant, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, A 0, West Bengal 
IT I) C, 1 T Office 

U D Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 
U D C, 1 T Office 

Dy Asstt Valuer, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
Dealing Asstt, Joint Chief Controller of Import & 
Export 

CDC, DAGP&T 

Dy Asstt Engineer, Calcutta Improvement Trust . . 
Auditor A-G-’s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk Grade II, Reserve Bank ol India. . 

U D C, I T Office, W B 

IT D O. D A G P & T 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 

Clerk, Gr. II, Reserve Bank of India 

Ch Clerk, CE SC Ltd 

IT I) O, L T Office 

, IT D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Jr A celt., E Rly 
U D C, l T Office, W B 
U D C, T) A G P & T 
UDC. DAGJP&T 

Asstt Secy, Board of Secondary Education 
Auditor, A-G’s office, West Bengal 
Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 
Assistant Maste, Shyambazar Vidyasagar School . . 


Writers 1 Ruddm^ 
7 Koilairhnt Ntm*| 
77/2 Part Str m 
7 Koilaghai Siivm 
7 Koilagli.ii Stmt 
Writers 1 Buildup 
(10 B, Mil /ttpur St i ( 
7 Koilaghut Ntm*j 
10, Netaji Suhhas 
Treasury Building 
5, S. N. Banerjtr ] 
17 Netaji N’ltnli.i, 
Writers’ Building 
32 Dullmieie S( 
South 

P-7 (ln'W 1 inuk'-i v 
8, (Vnineil H Si 

5, Council lb him- S 
Writei s’ Building 

27 ( ’h<>\\ i it ijj lu 1 

27 20 Krahounir 

Treasury Km Id ue-j 
1, Hustings Street 
8, Council Home 

6, Church Lime 
Treason Buildup: 
Treasury Buildnm? 
3 ( io\ 1 FI. a '■ W ' ■" 
33, Dallioiisic Sqr 
P-S Kent* an li* H" 
10, Netaji Suhlias 
4, Esplanade Kmt 

7 Koihiuli.il ' M|M 
10 Netaji Snihli-e I 
Treasury Bui Id nun 
8, Council 

7, Koilaghai Strtn* 
7 Koilaghai MmtI 
Treasury 1 *i lildnig 

8, Council lh>iw * 
8, Council House 
Victoria Home 

p.7 Chow ringin'** 

7, Koilauhid Stn 
Eastern Kailw*»> 
3, Govt Plan 
7 Koilaghai SUtm 
7 KoilajrlMi N"" 1 
77/2 I’tnl, Mi"' 
Treasury 
8, Council H«»sc . 
08, Bhupen (lni 

Avenue 


Auditor, A-G’s Office 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, Acs Dept, Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co 
Private Ltd 

Ref clerk, A-G’s office West Bengal 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
F Inspector, Gr II, State Transport Corpn of India 
Ltd 


Treasury K ,l,1(l1 '^ 
Treasury Buildup 
16, Strand Koad 


Treasury 


Kuildi^ 


8, Council 

32 Dalhousie 

South 


|h»u^ c 





Names. 


Style or oalting. 


Keaidenoe or plaoe of 
business. 


Gbose, Debiprosad, BOom 
Ghose, Debiprosad, BA 

Ghose, Dhananjoy, ba 
G hose, Dhirendra Kr, BA 
Ghose, Dhirendra Lai, BA 
Ghose, Dilip Kumar, boom 
Ghose, Dinendra Nath, BCom 
Ghose, Dinesh Kumar, BA 
Ghosh, Dinesh Ranjan, ba 
Gliose, Diptendu, boom 
Ghosts Girindra Nath, BSc 
Ghose, Gokul Chandra, ba 
Ghose, Gour Chandra, ma 
Ghose, Gourhari, ba 
Ghosh, Gunendra Nath, bso 
Ghose, G S, ba 

Ghose, Harisadhan, ba 

Ghost*, Hi ron Kr, BA 
Ghost?, Jagahandhu 
Ghost*, Jagahandhu, MSC 
Ghose, Jagahandhu, MA 
Ghose, Jagadish Ch, BCOM, LLB 
( chose. Jagannath, BA 

Ghose Jamini Kumar, ba 
Ghose, Janardan, ma 
C hose, J\anti Kumar, ba . . 

Gliose, Jyotish Chandra, BOom, 
LLB 

Ghose, Kalipada, ba 
Ghose, Kangali Charan, use 
Ghose, Kartik Chandra, BA 
Gliose, Keshah Chandra, use . . 
Ghose, Krishnadas, ba 
Ghosh, Krishnadas, ba,bl 
Ghosh, Krishna lvumai , ba 
Ghosh, K L, boom 
Gliose, Lakslimi Narnyan 
Glume, Lalit Kr, MA, LLB 
Ghosh, Munich (-hand, boom 
Ghose, Moliit Lai, ba 
G hose, Mrigendra Chandra, ba . . 
Ghose, Narendra Kumar, ma , . 
Ghose, Nepal Chandra, boom 
Chose. Netai Chandra, boom 
Ghosh, Nirode Baran, BA 
Ghose, Nripendra Nath, bsc, bt 
Ghose, Panchugopal, boom 
Ghosh, Panna Lall, ba 
Ghose, Parimal Kumar, BA 
Ghose, Phakir Chandra, ma 
Ghose, Phani Bhutan, BA 
Ghost?, Prakash Kumar, 13 Sc 
Ghose, Priyabandhu, BA 
Ghose, Pravat Kumar, BSc 

Ghosh, Prodyot Kumar, ba 


Asstt, P H S Dept, Life Ins Corpn of India, Sunlife 
Assurance Co of Canada 

Asstt, Land Refoitns Branch, Land & Land Revenue 
Department 

Hd Clerk, C&loutta Improvement Trust 

U D C, D A G, P & T 

Inspector, Election Dept, Corpn of Cal. 

Clerk, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 
U D C, Telegraph Check Office 
Acclt, 1) A G, P & T 
Steno, Standard Vacuum Oil Co, Ltd 
Clerk, Williamson Magor & Co Ltd 
V I) C, 1 T Office 
Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Accountant, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, Kilburn & Co, Private Ltd 
IJ D Clerk, Tea Board 

U X) Clerk, Telegraph Cheek Office 

Sub Head, E Rty 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 

Inspector, F S Dept, Corpn of Cal. 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, Lovelock & Lewis 

Sec Hd, Life Insurance Corpn of India, Oriental 
Govt Security Life Assurance Co 

Auditor, A-G*s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U D Asstt, Income-tax Office 
U 1) V , Home (Poll— C R) Dept 

Clerk, Aoctts Dept, Brooke Bond (India), Ltd 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U D C, I T Office, W B 
Sr Clerk, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
Order Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co, Ltd 
L D Clerk, Tea Board 
Asstt , Directorate of Agriculture 
Inspector, 1 T Office 
Clerk, Gr. II, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Ledger Keeper, Martin Bum Co Ltd 
Clerk, Burmah Shell O S & D Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Jeewanlal (1929) Ltd 
Clerk, Burmah Shell 0 S <fc D Co, Ltd 
PaA Roll Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co, Ltd 
Asstt Master, Hare School 
Asstt, Caledonian Insurance Co. Ltd 
Clerk, Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industry . . 
U D Asstt, Fisheries Dept, W Bengal 
Supdt, Commercial Intelligence and Statistics 
Asstt I T Office 
Acctt, T) A G, V &. T 
U D Asstt, Education Directorate 
Asstt, Land Revenue Branch, Land & Land Revenue 
Department 

Asstt, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 


23B Netaji Subhas Road 

'Writers’ Buildings 

10, Netaji Subhas Road 
7 Koilaghat Street 

5, S. N. Banerjee Road 
23B, Netaji Subhas Road 

33 Dalhousie Square 
7 K lilaghat Street 

6, Church Lane 
4, Mangoe Lane 

P-7 (’h iwringhee Square 

7, Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury BuildingH 
4, Fairlie Place 

27 & 29, Brabourne 
Road 

33, Dalhousie Square, 
South 

Ea stein Rly House 

4, Bankshall Street 

5, S. N. Banerjee Road 
Treasury Buildings 

4, Lyons Range 

2 (’live Row 

Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 

3, Govt Place, West 
Writers' Buildings 

2, Metcalfe Street 
Treasury Buildings 

4, Hastings Street 

23 B, Netaji Subhas Road 

7, Koilaghat Street 
77/2, Park Street 
b, Church Lane 
27&29 Brabourne Road 

Writers' Buildings 

3 Govt Place. (West) 

8, Council House Street 
8, Council House Street 
31, Chittaranjan Avenue 
Hong Kong House 

31, Netaji Subhas Road 
Hong Kong House 

0, Church Lane 
87, College Street 
B3, Qillander House 

6, Netaji Subhas Road 
Writers’ Buildings 

1 , Council House Street 
P-7 Chowringhee Square 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Writers' Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 

23B, Netaji Subhas Road 



70 


Reeidanoe or plaoe of 
businew. 


STo. Kuum. 


Styfe or —Bing. 


Ghose, Profulla K. ma, Boom . . Legal Section, Standard Vaonum Oil Co 
Ghosh, Promodo Ranjan, BA . . Statistical Asstt, Office of the Labour Commissioner 

Ghose, Pronob K, BOOm . . Audit Clerk, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 

Ghose, Rabindra Kumar, BSc, U D C, Income Tax Office 
BCom 

Ghose, Rabindra Kumar, BA . . U D C, D A G, V & T 

Ghose, Rabindra Mohan, MA . . U I) C, Income Tax Office 

Ghose, Rabindra Nath, ba. bl. . . Supdt, (Finance) Board of Secondary Educantion 

Ghose, Rabindra Nath, bsc . . Auditor, A-G’s office 

Ghose, Rabindra Nath, BSc . . U 1) C, Telegraph Check Office 

Ghose, Rabindra Nath, BSc, LLB L D O , Income Tax Office 

Ghose, Pranabendra Nath, ba . . Inspector, Col lee. Dept Corpn of Cal 

Ghose, Radhashyam, ma, bt . . Asst Master, Hindu School 


<6, Church Lane 
1, Hastings Street 
B-4,Gillander House 
P-7 Chowringhee Sqi 1H r e 

7 Koilaghat. Street 
4 Hastings Street 
77/2 Park Street 
Treasury Buildings 
33 Dalhousie Square 

4 Hastings Street 

5 S. N. Banerjee Road 

IB, Bankim Chat ter jee 
Street 


Ghosh, Rajat Kumar, boom 
Ghose, Ram Krishna, LLB 
Ghose, Ramendra Lai, BA 
Ghose, Ranjit Kumar, ba 
Ghose, Rutindra K, ma 
G hosh, Sat 'hind iv Nath 
Ghose, Sachindra Nath, Boom 
Ghose, Sambhu N, bsc 
Ghosh, Samirendra K, ba 
Ghose, Sannt Kr (T), BCom 


Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 
IT D C, D A G, P & T 
IT I) O, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 
Clerk Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
(Tlerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Head Clerk, Transport 1 )ont. f Maeneill & Barry. Ltd 
Clerk, Burma Shell Q S & D Co, Ltd 
Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 
U T) C, Telegraph (-heck Office 


8, Council House Strict 
7 Koilaghat Street 

32 Dalhousie Nqr, South 
8, Council House Street 
8, Council House Stric t 
2, Fairlic Place 

Hong Kong House 
6, Church Lane 
8, Council House Street, 

33 Dalhousie St|uare 

South 


Ghose, Santiram, BA 
Ghose, Shankar Narayan, BA 
Ghose, Saroj Kumar, BA 
Ghose, Satehidananda, Brom 
Ghosh, Satyabrata, MA 
Ghose, Satyabrata, BCom 
Ghosh, Sat\ end ranath, BA (Hons) 
Ghose, Satyendra Narayan, bcom 
Ghose, Shyarnal Kumar, use 
Ghose, Sisir Kumar, ba 
Ghose, Sisir Kumar, boom 
Ghose, Subodh Kr, Boom 
Ghose, Subhas Chandra, Boom, aoa 

Ghose, Sudhamoy, bso 


Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept 
Supdt, Geological Survey of India 
Aectt, State Trading Corpn of India Ld 
Burmali Shell O S & I> (To, Ltd . . 

Auditor A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
L D Asstt , Commerce A Industries Dept 
Sr Clerk, Tata Iron & Steel (To, Ltd 
Asstt, Home (G A) Dept 
Auditor, A-G’s Office 
Clerk, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
IT. D. Clerk, Telegraph ( ’heck Office 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 

Sr Technical Asstt, Office of the Registrar of 
Companies 

U. D. Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 


Ghose, Sudhindra Kumar, BSc* . , 
Ghosh, Sudhindra Nath, bsc 
Ghose, Sudhir Ranjan, Bcoin 
Ghosh, Sukhendu B, bsc 
Ghose, Sukumar, BA 
Ghose, Sukumar, BSo 
GhoBe, Sunil Kanti, Mcom 
Ghose, Surajit, MCom 
Ghose, Nuresh Ranjan, BA 

Ghose, Sushanta, bsc 
Ghose, Sushil Kumar 
Ghosts T’apan Kumar, BA 
Ghose, Tarak Nath, BA 
Ghose Ohaudhuri, Salil Kr, BA . . 
Ghosh Mazumdar, Purnendu, BSc 
Ghose Roy, Amiyo Krishan, bso 
Gomes, Lazarus, BA 
Gopalan, S S, ba (Hons.) 

Gope, Sukhendu Bikash 
Goral, Dhananjoy, BA 
Goswami, Ananta Deb, MCom 
Goswami, Anup Nath, ba 
Goswami, Amiya, ba 


Asstt, Income Tax Office 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U. D. Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 
U. D. Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Hd Asstt, Geological Survey of India 
Asstt Head Master, Oriental Seminary 
Asstt, I C I (India), Ltd 
IJ D C, D A G, P & T 

Ledger Keeper, Central Bank of India, New Market 
Branch 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Directorate of Agriculture 
L D C, Income Tax Office 
U D C, D A G, P & T 
U D C, Income Tax Office 
Clerk, I C I, Ltd 
Burmah Shell O S & D Co Ltd 
U D C, Telegraph Check Office 
Acott, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
UDC, DAG, P&T 
L D Asstt, Home (Poll) Dept 

Clerk, Officers Dept, Maekinnon Mackenzie & Co . . 
U D Clerk, Conservator General of Forests Office . . 


Writers’ Buildings 
27 Chowringhee 
32 Dalhousie Square 
Hong Kong Hoes'* 
Treasury Buildings 
Wrileis’ Buildings 
23J>, Notaji SubluiK lioad 
Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
10, Netaji Subhas Rea l 
33, Dalhousie Square 
8, Council House Street 
P-29, Mission Row Extn. 

33, Dalhousie Square 
South 

P-7 Chowringhee Square 
Treasury Buildings 

33, Dalhousie Square 

7, Koilaghat Street 
27 ChowringluM 1 

336 Upper Ohitpur Rd 

34, Chowringhee 

7 Koilaghat Street 
10 Lindsay Street 

8, Council House Street 
Writers’ Buildings 

4 Hastings Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 
P-8 Brabourne Road 

34, Chowringhee 
Hong Kong Hosse 
33 Dalhousie Square 
Treasury Buildings 
4 Bankshall Street 

7 Koilaghat Street 
Writers’ Buildings 
16, Strand Road 
Writers’ Buildings 



71 


(io^vaini, Banamali, bso 
QoaH'ftini, Bankim Chandra, ba 
Jopwaini, Bhagabat i Clia ran 

BCom, 

iJoswuini, Bibhuti Bhusan, BOom 


I'uMwaini, Biswabinod, BA 
OancHb Cli, BA 
(' l0S vi uni, Gobinda K, ba (Hons. 
Jo^aini. Jugal Kish ore. BA 
GuHWfiini* Jagat Krishna, BA 
^*\vaini, Madliusudun, BA 
jliimwaini, Mohan Lai, BOom 
Llnswami, Narendra N, BA 
(joUajni, Radharaman, BA 
(j u h,.i Ridlian Chandra, BA 
(Julia, B C, ma (com) 

Gulia. Bnrid Baran, BCotn 
Gulia. Jlhupendra Mohan, BA 
Gulia, Bijoy Kumar 
(Julia, Pliirendra Kumar, uoom 
Gulia. Dmesh Ch, BSc* 

Gulia, Dwijondra Lai, ma 
G ulia, Kalipada, BA 
(Juba. Kanina Kumar, BA 
i (Julia, Mrinal Chandra, BSc 
| (Julia, Nihar Ranjan, ba 
IGhIiu Mukundn Bhusan. BSc 
j Guli’i 1‘ivmotpal, BCom 
Gulia Ikinmdra, BSc 
Gulin ll.tLihahcndra, BA 
(Julia. Sankar Narayan, Ha 
G ulia, Santi Pada, Mcom 
Gulia. Subhondu Bikas, bsc 
G ulia, Sudhangsu Kumar, ba 
G ulia, Sudhir Kumar, ma, bl 
(J ulia Si.dliir Ranjan, BA 
(Julia, Sunil Chandra 
Gulia, Nuprasanna, ba 
G ulia, Sus mift Kumar, BA(Distn 
<riih.ua |a Krishna, MSC 
Gulia Tlmkurtn. Do bend ra Nath 
II A 

kilin LJui Asok<* Kumar, BA 
Gulia Tlmkurta, Bimalendu, ba 
G ulia Tluknrta, Han jit Kumar, 

n>c 

Gupta Amalendu, BA 
Gupta, Anil Chandra, ba, bl 
G upta P> B. BA 
Gupta, Bcjoy Kumar, Boom 
Gupt.u l»li;i hat osh, BCom 

Gupta Ui I >h u Hanjan, BA 

Gujita, IGswanatli, bsc 
p U l n 1 { G it.tarnuj.ui, BA 
Wta. Dincndra Prosad, ba 
;' l Pta, Eh inanta Kumar, ba 
^ ipta, ITrishikesh, bso 

J'W, II \\ BSC .. 

Indu Bhusan, Boom 
Bhusan, BA 
G.\ot irmoy , BSc 
‘ u Iki, K.inti Prasad, BCom, ca , 
IIB 

Cl Ranjan> BSc (D) • 

Gant. ’ V- ur ’ BOOM • • 

Gil K Nath, BA 

f 4 a v''" 1 ' Bhusan - BA 

t; a - ' Wat, BSC . . 

Cl' L' ran K, ' ishna » B9C 
<C a r man Kumar 

Gm,,!*' jj ,um <>8h Chandra, ba 
G u{, to ’ u i ln J ,ro81AC i, bsc 

C, ^ lll ; , ' flh Kr, MA (Com) . 

K'v u J haran i an * MA 

?K , S omal ’ Bsc 

V ^ukumar, ba 


Style or calling. 


IT D Assistant Home (Special) Dept 
Asstt, Local Self -Govt Dept, West Bengal 
Sr Asstt , Boa i d of Secondary Education 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
U D C, I) A G, P & T 
U D C, T) A G, P & T 
U D Asstt, D A-G, P & T Office 
Asstt, Income Tax Office 
V DC. DAG, P & T 
Supvr, Income Tax Office 
Clerk, Grade Jl, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Agricultural Marketing, W Bengal 
U 1) C. Income Tax Office 
Asstt, Law (Judicial) Dept 
Asstt Accountant, Tea Board 
Tnsfieetor, I T Office 
Stores Asstt , Geological Survey of India 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India. . 

U T) C, DA Ch V & T Office 
Asstt, Finance Dept 
IJ DO, I T Office 

IT D O, State Trading Oorpn of India Ltd 
IT D <\ D A G. V & T Office 
Offg. IT D Asstt W B Sectt Home (Poll— C R) 
Foreman, Gr (IV 7 ), O E S C Ltd 
IT D C, Telegraph Check Office 
Auditor. A G. W Bengal 
I T I) O, Telegraph Cheek Office 
Stono, I T Office W B 
U D Clerk, Contlr of Coal Acctts Office 
U D Cle rk, D A-G, P & T Office 
UD Clerk, Controller of Coal Accounts Office 
IJ D (Jerk, Iron and Steel Control 
Marketing Officer, Agricultural Marketing, W 
U D Asstt, Education Dept 
U D Clerk, Controller of Coal Accounts Office 
Acctt. 1) A-G, P & T Office 
IT T) (\ I T Office 
U DC, DA G, I* & T Office 

Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
U I) Clerk, Controller of Coal Accounts Office 


Residence or plaoe of 
business. 

Writers' Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
. . 77/2 Park Street 

. . 8, Council H<m vie Street 

7 Koilughat Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 

7, Koilaghat Strict 

P-7 Chowringhee Square 
7 Koilaghat Street 
P-7 Chowringhee Square 

8, Council liou«e Stieet 
Writers’ Buildings 

P 7 ChowringhiM* Square 
Writers* Buildings 
. . 27&29 Bra bourne Road 

P-K Braboiirne Road 
.. 27 Chowringhee 

4 Bankshall St reet 
. . 8, Council House Street 

7 Koilaghat Street 
. . Writers’ Buildings 
4 Hast ings St reel 
.. 32 Dalhousit* Sijf, South 

7 Koilaghat Stieet. 

Dept Writers' Buildings 
\ icioria Hoi.m* 

33 Jhilhousie Square 
Treasury Buildings 
33 Dalhousic Square 
3 Govt Plaee West 
1, Council House Street 
. . 7, Koilaghat Street 

1, Council House Street 
33, Netaji Subhas Roail 
Bengal Writers* Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
1 , Council House Street 

7, Koilaghat Street 

P-7 Chowringhee Square 
7 Koilaghat Street. 

Writers’ Buildings 

8, Council House Street 
I , Council House Street 


Asstt, Secy. Board of Secondary Education 
Clerk, Burmah Shell O S & D Co, of I, Ltd 
C D C, I ncome Tax Office 

Asstt Teacher, Metropolitan Institution (Main) . . 
Bill Clerk, Central Bank of Tndia Ltd, New Market 
Brandi 

Invest igating Officer, Agricultural Marketing, West 
Bengal 

Clerk, Grade IT, Reserve Bank of India 
II D Cieik, Income-tax Office 
Librarian, Central Tea Board 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Asstt. Superintendent, Tea Board 
Clerk, Burmah Shell O S & D Oo, Ltd . . 

Acctt, D A G, P & T Office 
U D O, D A G. P & T Office 
Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 

V T) C, I) A G, P & T Office 

Clerk, Grade II. Reserve Bank of India 

Clerk, Calcutta Improvement Trust. 

UDCJ T Office 
Clerk, Grindlays Bank Ltd 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, W M See, West Bengal 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, Burmah Shull O S & 1> Co, Ltd . . 

Asstt. I T Office W B 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Auditor, A G W B 

Hd Asstt, Labour Commissioner’s Office 


77-2 Park Street. 

Hong Kong House 
P-7 Chew ringhee Square 
39 Sankar Ohose Lane 
10 Lindsay Street 

Writers’ Buildings 

8, Council House Street. 

3, ( Jo vt Place, \\ est 
27d*29, Brabourne Road 
8, Council House Street 
Treasury Buildings 
27 & 29 Brabourne Road 
TIong Kong House 
7 Koilaghat Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 
8, Council House Street 

7 Koilaghat Street 
8, Council House Street 
10, Netaji Subhas Read 
P-7 Chowringhif* Square 
6, Church Lane 
Treasurv Buddings 
4 Bankshall Street 
Treasury Buildings 
Hong Kong House 
P-7, Chowringhee Square 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
I, Hastings Street 



No. 


72 


Names. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or pt 
business, Q 


H 

Hait, Santiram, ba 
Haidar, Arniya Kumar, ma 
Haider, Arniya Gopal, ma 
Haidar, Amritlal, msc 
Haider, Atul Krishna. Ba 
Haider, Bo pin Behari, Boom 
Haider. Be joy Kumar, BSe 
Haider, Gohindaram, BCom 
Haidar, Hein Chandra, ba 
Haider, Kumud H, ba 
Haidar, Mohini Mohan, Boom . . 
Haidar, Narayan Ch, ma 
Haidar, Provat Kumar, bsc (Hon) 
Haidar. Suharna Ch, BA 
Haider, Subhas Ch, BSe 
Haider, Tarapada, BCoin . . 

Hansda, Man Singh, BCom, BT . . 
Har, Phanindra ( Ihandra, MA 
Hati, Uday Chandra, ba, ij,b 
Hazra Anania Kumar, BA . . 

Hazra, Bidur Mohan, ba 
H azarikn. Khirod Chandra, BA . . 
Hazra, G C, ba 
Hazra, Kunja Behari, ha 
Hazra, Bro.sad Ch., ba 

Hazra, Saehipati, bsc 
Hazra. Sushil Kumar, BA 
Hussain, Md Zahid. BA 

I 

Islam, SlianiHid, ba .. 
lyar, Subramania, ba 
l\rr, SB 


J 

,la l)l)iir Kh AIhIiiI (I). BS<‘ 

. 11 ) A lx 1 ii 1 Bari. BA 

K 

Kanjilal, Arun Kumar, bsc 
Kanjilal. Manicklnl. BA 
Kanjilal Ratilal, BA 
Kar, Ajit Kumar, ba 
Kar, Arun Kumar, ba 
K ar, Banipada, BSe 
Kar, Nikunja B, Bse 
Kar, Pratulla Kr. mcom 
Kar. Bam Krishna, BA 
Kar, S mill ii* Kumar, BS<* 

Kar Gupta Jitendra Nath, ba 
Kar, Salil Kumar, bsc 
Kar, Siidhansu Bliusan, MCom 
Kar, Tamil Kumar, BSe 
Karar, Jaidev, BSc 
Karmakar, Anil Kumar, 

BA 

Karmakar, Anil Kr, BCom 
Karmakar, Haripada, Boom 
Karmakar, Sushil Kumar, ba 


Kayal, Kauai Lai, BCom, Bl. 
Kazimi, K H, BA 
Khan, Jb Alniur Raficjue, ma 
Khan, Biros war Narayan, bsc 
Khan, Prafulla Kumar, ba 

Khan, Prakash Chandra, BA 
Khasnobis, S K, bsc 
Koley, Ajit Kumar, Boom 
Koshi G Mohan Das, ba 


Auditor, A-G’s OfTice, T A Sec • • 

Hd Cl, I T Ofliee W B 

Local Purchase Clerk, Indian Cable Co, Ltd 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U 1) Clerk, Income-tax Office 
U 1> C, I T Oihee 
Auditor, A G, W Bengal 
Stenographer, Registration Directorate 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Jr Aeett, Finance Deptt 
S, G. Clerk, I) A-G, P & T Office 
V D Clerk, (Commissioner of Income-tax Office 
IJ D ( \ 1 T Office 
UI)(M T Offiee 
U J) A sett. Forest. Department 
Inspector, J T Office 
U J)(1, IT Office 

(Appt.) U D Clerk, Commissioner of Excise 

Asstt, West Bengal Provincial Co-operative Bank Ltd 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of Lndia 

Jr F Officer, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 

U 1) Clerk, Tea Board 

Clerk, Burmah Shell O S & J> Co of 1, Ltd 
IT J) Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Sr Asstt , Board ni Secondary Educ ation 
T T DC, D A G. P & T Office 


Clerk. Grade IT, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade IT, Reserve Bank of India 
Assistant., Martin <fe Burn, Ltd 


II |) C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
IT 1) C, Income Tax Office 


Asstt, Home (G. A.) Deptt 
L D C, Income Tax Office 

V D C, I) A G, P & T Ofliee 

U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
IT 1) C, 1 T, W B 
IT I) C, Telegraph Check Ofliee 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
U D Clerk, I) A-G, P & T Office 
( J*rk, Sales Tax, Martin & Burn Co . . 

Inspector. Income ’Tax Office 
Inspector, Collection Dept Corpn oi Cal 
U D 0, Office of IT, WB .. 

U I) (\ State Trading ( -orpn of India Ltd 
IT T) C, D A G, P & T Office 

V J) C, D A G, P & T Office 

Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 

XT D (I, Telegraph Cheek Office 
Clerk, (Trade I, Reserve Bank of India 
U D Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

U D Asstt, Education Directorate 
F Insjjector, Gr 11, State Trading Corpn of (T) Ltd 
Inspector, IT, WB 

Auditor, A-G ’s Office, West Bengal . . . . 

Commercial Investigator, Offg, Commercial 
Intelligence and Statistics 
U D C, D A G, P & T Office 
U D Clerk, Tea Board 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk* Burmah Shell 0 S & D Co, Ltd. . • 


Treasury Building 
P-7 Chowringhee ^ 
9, Hare Stret t 1 
Treasury Building 
Treasury Building 
P-8, Brabourne j> oai 
P-8 Brabounir 
Treasury Building 
Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 

7, Koilaghat Str^i 
J, Govt. Plau W (*1 
P-7 ChowringliH Sq 
P-S Bra bom in lioa< 
Writers' Buildings 
P-8 Brubomne kaw 
P-7 Chowriiiglicc S(| 
Writers' Buildings 

Hi Okl ( bun JLldiiM 

8, Council House 8tr 
32 DalhnusK 8ij! Si 
27 & 29 Bru. bourne 
Hongkong lb nisi 
.‘13, Dallmusio S(ji 

South 

Treasury Building* 
77 / 2 Pai L St m l 
7 Koiluglmi Si m i 


8, Council House Str 
8, Council House Sir 
12, Mission Low 


33 Dal hoi is ic S.|inr 
4 Hastings Si h-h 


Writers’ Buildings 
4 Ilasl mgs Si red 
7 Koilaghat Sued 

7, Koilaghat Street 

33, Netaji Sublm" k 
33 Dalhoiisic S<jiiai' 

8, Council House Slt 
7, Koilaghat Silent 

12 Mission K<>u 
I T ()llu> . I'- 
5 , S. N. Bam i'Jt' 1 ' Kn 
3 , Cjjov't Place Wwt 
32 DuIIhiiiM' 

7 Koilu*t ,u " St lift 
7 Koilttfili;" ‘ su,rl 
77/2, Park Stn-et 


.oiM- S ,r 
if Ni lllir ' 

,iJii)(?' 

IcS'l' 

\\ t'<t 

uMuiP 1 

oum-S" 

St n j c I 



No. 


Names. 


73 

Style or calling. 


Kundu, Ahit Kumar, MA, LLB . . 
Kundu, A jit Kumar, BA (H) 
Kundu, Balaram, MA 
Kundu, Bibhuti Bhuaan, MA, LLB 
Kundu, Bidliu Bhutan, MA 
Kundu, I mill Bhutan, Btte (H) 
Kundu, Jnanendra Nath, BA 
Kundu. Madan Mohan, nc<>ni 
Kundu, Phani Biuisan, ma, 

BCOM 

Kundu, Pijush Kanli, MA 
Kundu, Pran bn Haw BA 
Kundu, Prasanta Kumar, boom 
Kundu, Pra\at Kumar, MA 
Kundu, Santipada, bsc 

Kundu, Sukumar, ma 
Kundu, Tapan K, bsc 
Kusary, Sailcndra K, ba, bt 

L 

Lab a, Panehugopal, ra 

Laha, Ajoy Kumar, bsc 
Lilia, Prosanta Kumar, boom 
Labiri, Ashim Kumar, MA 

Labiri, Banian Das, MA (Loin) . . 
Lahiri, Hemendra Nath, ba 
Labiri, Harendra Mohan, BSe 
Lahiri, Kamalesh, bcom 
Lahiri, Mohon Lai, Room 

Lahiri, Punyabrata, Bsc 
Labiri, Ranjit Kanta, ra 
Lahiri, Subhendu Molion, BA 
Lahiri, Sudarsan, ba 
Lahiri, Sunil Kr. ra 
L ihiri, Sunil Chandra, ba 
Lahiri, Suresh Chandra, ba 
Lahiri, Sushanta Kumar, bsc 
Lahiri, Tulshi Charau, MA 
Lall, Iswar, BSc 
Liskar, Rad ha Nirmal, BCom 
Lawrence, Horaoo Karnest, bsc 

M 

Malm jan, Sukliendu Bikash, BA 
Maithal, Yod Prakash 
Maitra, Amiya Kumar, MA 
Maitra, Arun Kumar, BSc 
Maitra, Bhabapati, ma bt 
Maitra, Provash Chandra, BA 

Maitra, Satyabrata, boom, llb 
Maitra, Sitansu Sekhar, ra 
Moitra, Sukumar, ra 

Maitra, Satyendra Nath, BA 
Maity, Asoko. ba 
Maity, Debendra Nath, BA 
Maity, Jiban Krishna, BA 
Majid , Jatindra Natli, bsc 
Majid, Abdul (1), BA 
Maji, Krishna Pada, Boom 
Majumdar, Abani Mohan, BA, LLB 
Majumder, Ajit Kumar, BSe 
Majumdor, Amarcndra, BCom 
Mazumdar, Amulya Kumar, ba . . 
Majumder, Aloke Kumar, MCora 
Majumder, Anil K, BSo 
Majumder, Asit, M.Sc.LLR 
Majumder, Anil Chandra, BA 
Majumder, Debesh Chandra, BA 
Majuind*r, Kara 4 han, ba « i 
Masusadar, Nath, w 


Inspector, Income Tax Office 
U D C. Telegraph Check Office 
Asstt Teaeher, Oriental Seminary 
Inspector. Income Tdx Office 

V T) CM) A G, P & T Offioo 
Acct t , D A G, P & T Office 
Statistical Asstt, Labour Commissioner 
Produce Clerk, Rallis (Indio), Ltd 
Auditor, Lovelock Lewis 

L 1> C. Govt o! India Forms Stores 
Vuditor, A G, \\ T Bengal 
Asstt, Home (G A) Dept 
U DC 1 , Govt of I ndia Forms Stores 

V 1) Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

Auditor, A G W B 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Hd Asstt, (kirmnerco and Industries Dept 


Stat istical Asstt, OflFg., Commercial Intelligence & 
Statistics 

Auditor, A-G’s Office 
I )itto 

Teacher, Surendra Nath Collegiate School 

1 nsj eetor. Income Tax Office 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Loral Self-Govt and Panchayats 
Clerl , (Jr II, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk. A / Cs Dept, Mackinnon Mackenzie Co, 

Pri vate Ltd 

Auditor. A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
dork, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
Head AsHtt, Geological Survey of India 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Librarian, A-G’s Office, West Bengal . . 

Sales. Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
IJ I) Asstt , Kducation Doptl 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Asstt H<vid Master, MetrojH>litan Institution (Main) 
Asstt , liogn Br, Land & I^nd Revenue Dept . . 
IT T) C, D A G, P & T Office 
Foreman 2, C E S C, Ltd 


V D Clerk, Commissioner of Income -tax Office 
Asstt, Shaw W allace & Co Ltd 
U DC. IT Office 
IJ I) C, D A G, P & T Office 
Asstt Teach, Bangabasi Collegiate School 
Security Clerk, Central Bank of India Ltd, New 
Market Branch 

Sales Clerk, Indian Cable Co Ltd 
Steno, Office of 1 T Office, W B 

U T) Asstt, West Bengal Sectt, Kducation 
Department 

Steno, Industrial Tribunal 

U D Clerk, Income-tax Officio 

Asstt Treasurer, Home (Passport) Dept 

U D C, D A G, P & T Office 

Auditor, AGWB 

U D C, Telegraph Check Office 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 

Asstt , Talbot & (Jo 

U D C, D A G, P & T Office 

Asstt-, Law (Judicial) Dept 

Asstt, Calcutta Improvement Trust Office 

U DC, National Savings Organisation, W B 

XJ D C, DAG.P&T Office 

Inspector. Income Tax Office 

ROC (Cashier), State Trading Cqrpn of India Ltd . . 
AsFttf, Agricultural Marketing. W Behgal 

Audi for, AGW» 

StatiiUcaV A Imho ur Gtmsn*' *u 


Residence or plaoe of 
business. 

4 Hastings Street 
Jill Dalhonsie S(]iiare 
33ft I p,' *r Chit pur Rd 
l r r Offire, Disi \ A 
7 Koil.igha I St r< et 
7 Koibigbat St in et 
I , Hast ings Street, 
lb, II jut Street. 

4, Lyons Range 

Iftft Db.muntallu Street 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers' Buildings 
Iftft Dliai amt alia Street 
33, l)alhousie Square 
South 

Treasury Buildings 
8, Council House Street 
Writers' Buildings 


1 , Council House Street 

Treasury Buildings 
Ditto. 

24/2 Mahatma Gandhi 
Road 

3 Gn\ 1 Mace West 
S, Council House Street 
Writers’ Buildings 
8, Council llnu^<* Street 
10, Strand Road 

Treasuiy Buildings 
S. < 'miiicil House Street 
27 < 'bow rmgbee 
Treasury Buildings 
Ti ejj.su ry Buildings 
ft Church Lane 
W l iters’ Buildings. 
Treasury Buildings 
30 Sankar Cho.*e Lane 
Waiters’ Buildings 
7 Koilaghat St, rent 
Victoria House 


P-7 Chnwrmghee Square 
4 Bankshall Street 
4 Hastings Street, 

7 Koilaghat. Street 
S/I Santosb Mitra Sq. 

10 Lindsay St, reel, 

!) f 11a re Sti eet. 

3, ( bn t . IMaoe WVst 
Wri tens' Buildings 

1 , 1 hist ings Street 
3, Govt. Place West 
J L\ Km* School Street 
7 Kodaghat Street 
Treasury Building 
33 Dalhonsie Si|iiaro 
S. ( •oiiiieil House. St reet. 
Tower Ilmise, < aleutta, 

7 Koil.ighat Strait 
Writers’ Buildings 
10. Netaji Subhas Road 
Ilindiistlian Bu ildings 
7 Koilaghat Street 
1 T Offiee, District VA 
32 Dalhonsie »Sqr, South 
Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Hastings 8trcw* 



Names, 


74 

Style or nailing. 


Mazumdar, Jyotirmoy, ma 
Majumdar, Jitendra Nath, ba 

Maj Hinder, Kanti Ranjan, BA 
Majumdor, Nagendra Mohan, 
B( \un 

Majumdor, Nagendra Nath ba 
Mazumdar, Nandagopal, ma 
Mazumdar, Nepal Chandra, Boom 
Majumdar, Pan chan an, ba 
Majumdor, Panina I Kr, BCom 
Majumdor, r»ntoah Kumar ha 
Majumder, Pram at ha Ranjan, 

IlL. 

Majumdar, Pronmnanda, Boom . . 
Mazumdar, Pulin Bchari, bsc . . 
Majumdar, Rabindra Kumar, ba 
Mazumdar, Rabindra N, BCom . . 
Majumdor, Kadhikaprosad, BA . . 
Mazumdar, Ramaprosad, bsc 
Maiumdar, Rameah Chandra, Boom 

Majumdar, Rathindra Nath, boom 
Majumdor, San jib Prasanna 
Majumdor, Satyendra Nath, BA, 
BL 

Majumdor Sukumar Kanti, BSo , . 
Majumdor, Sushi l Kumar, BSc 
Mazumdar, Tara Kumar, ba, bi, 
Mallick, Kalahari, BA 
Mallick, Dwarka Nath, bsc 
M alii ok, Copal Chandra, ba 
M allio-k, Cokill Krishna, BA 
Mallick, Harkins, BSo 
Mallick, Panohu Gopal 
Mallick, Paros! 1 Chandra., m om . . 
Mulliok, Puiulorick . . 

Mallick. S;u hindra Nal , MSr 
Mallick, Tan in Kumar, flsr 
Mallick Cho\\dhuri,L>urgapada, BA 
Manila!, Anil Krishna, BCom 
M a ii( la I, Anil Kumar, BA 
M initial, Ara!)inda, ba 
Mandal, Basudov, bsc 


Marketing Clerk, Standard Vaeoum Oil Co 
Auditor, AOWB 
U D C, I T Office 

1J S in Civil Engineering — Chief Valuer and Surveyer’s 
Dept, Corporation of Calcutta 
Asstt Secy, Board of Secondary Education 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G ’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office 
Iiihj lector, 1 T Office 

Supdt (Accts) Board of Secondary Education 
Inspector — Collection Dept, Corpn of Cal 

Asstt, Home (G A) Deptt 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A G W B 
Jr Steno, Tea Board 
Sub Head, E Rly 
Asstt, Iron & Steel Control 

Ch Clerk, CSV & Loans, Sun Life Assurance Go 
of Canada 

U D Clerk , Tea Board 
Asstt Directi irate of Agriculture 
Dist Organiser, Nat ional Savings Organisation. W B 

UDC, Office of IT, W B. 

Asstt, Agricultural Marketing, W B 
U D Asstt, Iron and Steel Control 
U D C, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 
Auditor, A-G’s Office 

U D Clerk, Controller of Coal Accounts’ Office 
U D C, Telegraph Che«*k Office 
Auditor, A-G. W. B- 
Asstt, James Finlay & Co . . 

Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 
Acctt, A G, W B 

Hd Clerk, Kilhurn & Go, Private Ltd. 

Clerk Grade II, Reserve Bank of Iudia 
LI 1) C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
V 1> (\ 1) A C, P & T Office 
UDC',DAG,P & T Office 
UD Asstt, Medical Br, Health Dept, 

U D Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 


Mandal, Bo joy Ranjan, bsc 
Mandal. Bidyaratan, BA 
Mamlal, Chittaranjan, ma,llb 


Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U D C, Income Tax Office 
Pub Assistant, All India Radio 


Mandal, Dhirendra Nath, BA 
Mandal, Jagadish Ch, BSc 
Mandal, Kalipada. BA 
Mandal, Kalipada, BCom 
Mondal, Kartick Chandra. BA 
Mandal, Khetra Mohan, BA 
Mandal, Narayan, BSc 
Mandal, Nikhil Kumar. BA 
Mandal, Phani Bhusan, ba 
M andal, Ranjiteswar, ma 
M andal, Saraj Kumar, BSc 
Mandal, Shibapoda, BCom 
Mandal, Sudliansu Sekhar, ba . . 
Mandal, Surendra Nath, BA 
Mangal Kshitindra Kumar BSc . . 
Manna, Ainarendra Nath, ba « • 


IT DC, Income Tax Office ? 

UDC, Income Tax Office 

Head Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept. 

Auditor, A G, W B 

IT D Asstt, West Bengal Fire Services 

Auditor A G, W B 

Auditor, A G, W B 

U D C, D A G, P & T Office 

Clerk, Turner Morison & Co Private Ltd 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U D C, D A G, P & T Office 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Asstt, Education Directorate * . . 

UDC, Office of IT, WB 
Asstt, Local Self-Govt A Panchayats 
Supdt, Stationery Office « • 


Residence or place of 
business. 

6, Church Lane 
Treasury Building 

4 Hastings Street 

5 S N Banerjee Road 

77/2 Park Street. 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
3 Govt Place West 
77/2 Park Street. 

5 S. N. Banerjee Rd. 

Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings. 

27 & 29 Brabourne lUi 
Eastern Railway Hou<e 
33, Netaji Subhas Road 
23 B, Notaji Subhas Road 

27 & 21), Brabourne Ruud 
Writers’ Buildings 
11 ndwsthan Buildings 

3 Govt Place West 
Writers’ Buildings 
33, Netaji Subhas Road 

32 Dalhousie Sqr, South 
Treasury Build*? .gs 

1, (Viu noil Horae Strr*l 

33 Dalhousie Square 
Treasury Buildings. 

2, Netaji Subhas Roml <• 

5, Council House Stm*l 
Treasury Building 

4, Fii,ii lie Place* 

8, Council House Street 
33 Dalhousie Squaie 
7 Koilaghafc Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Writers* Buildings 
33, Dalhousie Squaie. 
South 

Treasury Buildings 

P-7 Chowringhee Square 

All India Radio, Eden 
Gardens 

1 T Office, District \ A 
P-7 Chowringhee Square 
Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Building? 

13D Free School Street 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Street 

6, Lyons Range 
Treasury Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Building? 
Writers* Buildings 
3 Govt Place West 
Writers’ Buildings 

3, Church Laaa* 



75 

Style or oalling. 


Manila, Kriahnapada, ba 
jliiiuia. Malay Kr, BSo 
iloiii, S B S, Boom 
Markajidan, K O, BSc 
Master, John, BA 
Matlnir, OK, ba 
\J aihur, Y S, BA 
Mrlita, Prem Kagar, BA 
\lohta, Sumer ('hand, BCoin 
\Ii4ira, Balban, BCom, LLB 

Misra, Saiikar Narayan, MS(;, 
A\bV 

Mitra, Alii Bhiisan, ba 
Mitra, Amal Kr f BA . . 

Mitra, Amal Chandra, BA 
Mitra, A mala Charan, bsc 
Mitra, Amar Kumar, bso 
Mitra, Anadi Prosad, BSo, BA . . 
Mitra, Anil Kumar, bsc 
Mitra, Asoke Kumar, ba 
Mitra, Bibhas Ch, MA, BT 
Mitra, Bibhas Chandra, MA 
Mitra, Birendra Pr, BA Dip in 
Journ 

Mitra, Bidyut Kr, BA 

Mitra, Namarondra Nath, BA 

Mitra, Debi Kumar, BSc 

Mitra, Dchabrata, BCom 

Mitra, Cora Chand, MA 

Mitra , Jlirondra Kumar, BOoni . . 

Mit .i, Tlircndra N, Boom 

Mitra, Jagadish Ch, Boom 

Mitra, Kalipada, BSc 

Mitra, Lakshinor&yan 

Mitra, Miliir Kumar, boom 

Mitra, Murari Mohan 

Mitra, \ T arondra Ch, BA, bl 
Mitra, N D, Boom 
Mitra, Nirondra Nath, ba 
Mitra, Nrityagopal, BSO 


Clerk, Williamson Magor & Co, Ltd 

U1)C, State Trading Oorpn of India Ltd 

Stenographer, Iron & Steel Control 

U D C, D A G, P & T Office 

U D C, J) A G, P & T Office 

Estate Manager, Soorjmull Nagarmull 

F Ins Gr III, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 

Acett, AGWB 

Acett, Daven]>ort & (to Ltd 

Security Clerk, Central Bank of India Ltd (New 
Market Brandi) 

D F O, Utilisation Divn, Directorate of Forests 
Clerk (B), C E S O, Ltd . . 

U D Assistant, Animal Husbandry & Veterinary . . 
West Bengal 

U D clerk, offioc of Income Tax West Bengal 

U D Clerk, I> A-G, P & T Office 

Clerk , Grade II , Reserve Bank of India 

IJ I> C, 1 T Office 

Acett, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Clerk, Grade II, Rosorve Bank of India 

Asstt Head Master, Mitra Institution 

U I) C, I T Office 

Jr Asstt, Board of Secondary Edu cation 
U D C, I T Office 

Asstt Acett, Office of the Municipal Magistrates 
Audit- Clerk, Price Waterhouse Peat A Co 
U D C, Telegraph Check Office 
Auditor, A G Bengal 
Asstt, Lovelock & Lewes 
Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 
U D C, D A G, P & T Office 
Clerk, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
U D Clerk, Office of Income Max W B 

Acett Clerk, Braithwaite Burn & Jcbsoij Construction, 
Ltd 

U D Clerk, Iron & Steel Control 
Asstt Accountant, Tea Board 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
IS G Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 


Mitra, Pravas, B8c, 
totra, I'rofuUa Kr, MCom 
litra, prosad Kumar, bcom, llb 


Mltra . Purnendu Kr, ba 
^ tra » ^ l bindra Lai, boom 
,^ tra - P^mchandra, BSc 
: tra ' Pamkrishna, bsc 
‘ tra ’ ^dlondra Nath, ba 
tr n, S HIll b] lu Nath, Boom 
tra ) Sanat Kumar, ba 
^tchida Hari, bso 
f ra » Matyendranath, Boom 
fe Wta -A- M. (Tech) 

^.bhibn»th,BSo 

Shibdaa, na 


U D Clerk, I T Office 
U D C, Telegraph Check Office 
Income-Tax Clerk, Administrator Genl & Offl 
Trustee of West Bengal. 

Accounts Clerk, Eastern Rly 
Asstt - in - Char ge , Iron & Steel Control . . 

U D C, I) A G P & T Office 
Clerk, I C I, Ltd 

Acett, Stewarts and Lloyds of India Private, Ltd 
Clerk, Shaw Wallace & (k*>, Ltd 
Chief Supr, Election Dept, Corpon of Cal 
Auditor, A G, W B 

Billing Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Govt, of India, Forms Press, 

U D C, I T Office 

Clerk, Tea Dept, Meekixmon Maelceoaie A Co, Private 
Ltd. 


Resklenoe or plaoe of 
business. 

4, Mangoe Line 
32 Daiiiousie Sqr, South 
33, Netaji Subhas Rd 
7 Koilaghat Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 
K Daiiiousie Square Eaut, 

32 Daiiiousie Sqr, South 
Treasury Buildings 

0 A 7 Netaji Subhas Rd 
10 Lindsay Street 

Writers’ Buildings 

Victoria House 
Writers* Buildings 

3, Govt Plaoe West 

7, Koilaghat Stieet 

8, Council House Street 
P-S Bra bourne Road 
Treasury Buildings 

8, Council House Street 
f>oB Surva Sen Street 
3 Govt Place West 
77/2 Park Street 

3 Govt Place West 
Town Hall 
B 4. Gillander Home 

33 Daiiiousie Square 
Treasury Buddings 

4, Lyons Range 

8, Council House Street 
8, Council House Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 
10. Netaji Subhas Road 
3, Govt Plaoe West 
P-13, Mission Row Extn 

33, Netaji SubhasRoad 
27 & 29, Braboume Rd 
8, Council House Street 

33, Dalhousie Square 
South 

3, Govt Plat** West 
33 Ikiihousjo Square 

1 Hastings Street, 10th 
Floor, Calcutta. 

3, Koilaghat St 

33, Netaji Subhas Road 
7 Koilaghat Street 

34, Chowringhee 

41, Chowringhee Road 

4, Banks] laii Street 

5, S. N. Banerjce Road 
Treasury Buildings 
t>, Church Lane 
l Temp leStrnnt 
3 Govt Place West 
16, Strand Road 



Names. 


N* 


70 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


Mitrft, Shibapada, ba 
Mitra, Shyamapada, bcom 
Mitra, Sudliir Chandra, bhc 
Mitra, Sudhirondra, BA 
Mitra, Sudliir K., bsc 
Mit.ra, Sukumar, Moora 
Mitra, Sukumar 
Mitra, Suprakash, ba 
Mitra, Surondra Lai 

Mitra Bay, Sudliir Kumar, bcom 
Modak, Siiud Kumar, BA 
Modak Nag, Sisir Kumar, ba 

Maitra, Budhoiidu .Jyoti, ba 
Maitra, Samarendra Nath, BA . . 
Mukherjee, lndu Bhusan, BA 
Mohammed, Abu, BCom 
Maulik, Bholanath , BA 
Moulik, Sftlil Kr, ba 
Mukherji, Abani Bhusan, bsc . . 
Mukherjee, Acliin Kumar, BA 
Mukherji, Ajit K, BCora 
Mukherjeo, Ajoy Kumar, ba 
M ukhorjw, Ajitendra, BCmn 
Mukherji, Amal Bhusan, boom . . 
Mukherji, A K, Beom 
Mukherjee, Amal Kr, MCoin 

Mukherjee, Amarendra Nath, BA, 
BL 

Mukherji, Amarendra Nalh, ba 
Mukherjee, Amar Prosad, MSc . . 


Clerk, Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co, Privato Ltd 
Inspector, Collection Dept, Corpn of Cal 
Executive Officer, Controller of Import & Export 
IT D C, D A G, P & T Office 
U 1) Clerk, Govt ol India Stationery Office 
Clerk, Or II, Reserve Bank of India 
Hd Clerk, Contract Dept, Statesman 
Section Hoad, Martin-Burn Ltd 

Clerk, Fire Department, The South British 
Assurance Co, Ltd 

Auditor, A G, W B 
L D Asstt, Home (Poll — C 11) Dept 
Asstt, Local Self-Govt. & Panchayats Dept., West 
Bengal 

Auditor, A G, W B 

IT D C, Income Tax Office 

Auditor, A G Bengal 


16, Strand Road 
6, S. N. Banerjeo ^ 

4, Esplanade 
7 Koilaghat 

3, Church Lam 

5, Council lhiusp stn 

4, Chowringlu^ 

12, Mission Row 
10, Netaji Sublm* 

Treassary, Building 
Writers Building 
Writers’ Building 

Treasury Building 
4 Hastings St ivh 
T reasury Building 


IJ D C, Telegraph Check Office 
V D C, D A G P & T Office 
L D Asstt, Board of Revenue 
Ditto 

E Ins Gr III, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

Auditor, A G, W B 

U J> C, Govt of India Forms Stores 

Clerk, Grade TI, Reserve Bank of India 

II D Clerk, Tea Board 

Clerk B, O E S C Ltd 

Jr II A, Home (Passport) Dept 


33 Dalhousie Squar 
7 Koilaghat. Nt.m»t 
Writers’ Buildings 
Ditto. 

32 Dalhousie N)i . v 
S, Council House h 
Treasury Building 
166 DhurumtnU St 
8, Council House Si 
27 & 2b, Brahourin 

Victoria House 
11A Free School S 


Stock Veritier, Controller of Coal Accounts 
Demonos, Surondra Nath College 


1, Council House S 

24-2 Mahatma < 
Road 


Mukherji, Amiya Gopa), use 
Mukherji, Amiya Jiban, ba 
Mukherjee, Ananda Mohan, BA . . 
Mukherjee, Anil Bhusan, ma bt . . 
Mukherji, Anil Krishna, Boom 
Mukherjee, Anil Kumar, BSe 
Mukherji, Anil Kumar, ma, bt . . 
Mukherjee, Anu Ranjan, bsc 
Mukherjeo, Aparesh Chandra, ba 
Mukherji, Arun Kumar, ba 
Mukherji, Arun Prosad, ba 
Mukherjee, Arup Kumar, MA . . 
Mukhorji, Ashira Kumar, bsc . . 
Mukherjee, Ashutosh, BSe, BCom 
Mukherjeo, Asit Baran, MA 
Mukherji, Asit Kumar, ba 
Mukherji, Bamandas, ba 


Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Local Self-Government & Panchayats 

IT D C, D A G, P & T Office 

Asstt Teacher, Metropolitan Institution 

Aoott, A G’s Office 

D & W Br Clerk, Commissioner of Excise 
Assfct, lm])©rial Chemical Industries (India), Ltd 
U D Clerk, Office of I T Offioe, W B 
Jr Clerk, Coal Board 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, T H IV, West Bengal 
U D C, D A G, P & T Office 
Asstt, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
L D C, Home (Transport) Department 
Clerk, E Rly 

U D C, Chief Auditor’s Offioe, Eastern Rly 

Asstt Sttpdt* A-G # s Ofiaa*'B K Saa t * • 


8, Council ■He"''!' • 
Writers’ Buildings 


7 Koilaghat Stiwi 


39, SanJ< nr Cli<>«’ 

Treasury Buildinc 

Writers’ Budding 1 


34, ChoHringdw 

. 3, Govt. Pla.*’ W 

. 1 , Council Hon* 


Treamin 8u' |,ll,lf 
. Treasury l Jllll,lulf 

. 7 Kailagkat N rt '' 



Name*. 


Stylo or calling, 


Residence or plaoe of 
business. 


Mukherjee, Basudev, MA 
Mukherji, Benode Behari, ba 
Mukherjee, Benny Bhusan, BA . . 
Mukherji, Bharat Kumar, ba 
Mukherji, Bhowani P, ba 
Mukherji, Bibhu Dob, ma 
Mukherjee, Bidyut Kumar, BA . . 
Mukherjee, Bijoly Bhusan, BSc . . 
Mukherjee, Bijoy Kumar 
Mukherjee, Bimal Kumar, Boom. 
Muklierji, Bimalananda, ma 

Mukherji, Bimalendra Kanta, 
Boom. 

Mukherjee, Bankim Behari, be . . 
Mukherjee, Birondra Bejoy, BA 
Mukherji, Birondra Nath, ba 
M ukherji, B K, bsc 
M ukherjee, Bishnupada, BCom . . 
Mukherji, Biswanatli, ba 
M ukherjee, Biswanath. BSe 
Mukherji, Biswanath, ba 
M ukherjee, Chanehal Kumar, BA 
Mukherjee, Chitta Mohan, BSe . . 

Mukherjee, Chittaranjan, MCom 
Mukherji, D, ba 
M ukherji, Day am ay, bsc 
M ukherji, Dobnath, ba (Hons) . . 
Mukherji, Debidas, Ma 
Mukherji, Devapriya, ma, oa, 

UL.B 

Mukherjee, Dhruba Kumar, ba . . 
Mukherji, I )hwajadhari, ma 
Mukherjee, l>ilip Kumar, BSe 
Mukherjee, Dili]) Kumar, bsc 
M ukherjee, Dilip Kumar, BSe 
Mukherji, Durgadas, bhc 
M ukherji, Fatick Ch, ba 
M ukherji, G B, bsc 
M ukherji, Girindradev, ba 
M ukhreji, Go})i Mohan, mcoiu 
Mukherjee, Gora ('hand, MCom . . 
Mukherjee, Harakalj, BSe 
Mukherjee, JIara Kumar, BSe . . 
Mukherji Harendra Nath 
Mukherjee, Hari Charon, BCom . . 
Mukherji, Haripada, ma 
M ukherjoc, Hirendra Nath, MA . . 
Mukherjee, Hiron Kr, BSe 
Mukherjee, Hrishikesh, BA 
Mukherji, Jagarmath, ba 

Mukherji, Janardan, ba 
M ukherjee, Jatindra Nath, BA . . 
Mukherjee, Jayanta Kr, BCom . . 
Mukherji, Jyotirmoy, Boom 
Mukherji, Jyotena Nath, ba bt 

Mukherji, Kali Dhan, bsc , , 

Mukherjee, Kaliprpg&d. PA 


U D C, Income Tax Office 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U D C, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 
Asstt, Eastern Bank, Ltd 
Ledger Koeper, Standard Vacuum Oil Co, Ltd 
Supdt, Board of Secondary Education 
Sub Head, E Rly 
Acctt, D A G, P & T Office 
Asstt Shaw Wallace & Co, Ltd 
Clerk, Williamson, Magor & Co, Ltd 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Assistant, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 

Asstt Engineer, Martin-Burn, Ltd 
U D C, D A G, P & T Office 
Supervisor Clerk, C E S C, Ltd 
L D Clerk, Tea Board 
U DC.DA G, P & T Office 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
U D C, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 
L D Asstt, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
IJ D C, D A G, P & T Office 
Demonos, Surendra Nath College 

Inspector, Income Tax Office 
U D Clerk, Tea Board 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A G’s Office, West Bengal 
Staff Asstt, Reserve Bank of India 

Supdt, Board of Secondary Education 

Acctt, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Inspector, Income Tax Office 

Auditor, A G, West Bengal 

Chemist, West Bengal Public Health Laby 

Supdt, A-G’s Office, A C 11, West Bengal 

U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 

U D Clerk, Tea Board 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Clerk, Gr 11, Reserve Bank of India 

Clerk B, C E S C Ltd 

IT D C, D A G, P & T Office 

IT D C, D A G, P & T Office 

Hd Clerk, Macneill & Barry, Ltd 

Inspector, Income Tax Office 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, T H IV, West Bengal 

UDC,DAG,P&T Office 

U D C, Income Tax Office 

*Tr Hd Asstt, Medical Br, Health Dept 

S G Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

L D Clerk, Tea Board 
Auditor, A G Bengal 
U D C, Telegraph Check Office 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Asstt, Teacher, Hindu School 

Accounts Clerk, Alkali & Chemical Corpn of India 
Ltd. 

Clerk^E Rly 


P-7 ChnwriugluH* Squar 
Treasury Buildings 
32 Dalhousie Nqr, Noutl 
14, Notaji Subhas Road 
0, Church Lane 
77/2, Park Street 
Eastern Rly House 
7 Koilaghut Street 

4, Bankshall Street 
4 Mango© Lane 
Treasury Buildings 

23B, Notaji Subhas 
Road . 

Mercantile Buildings 
7 Kailaghat Street 
Victoria House 
27 & 29, Brabourn© Rd 
7 Koilaghat Street 

5, Council House Street 

32 Dalhousie S((r, South 
’Freasury Buildings 

7 Kailaghat. Street ) 

24/2 Mahatma Gandhi 
Road 

P-7 Chowringhee Square 
27 & 29, Brabourne Rd 

7, Koilaghat Street 

8, Council House Street 
Treasury B 1 1 i 1 d ings 

8, Council House St reet 

77 /2, Park Street 
Treasury Buildings 
3 Govt Place West 
Treasury Buildings 
( *h i t ta ra n j an A v ei i u e 
Treasury Buildings 
7, Koilaghat Street 
27 & 29, Brabourne Rd 
Treasury Buildings 
8, Council House Street 
Victoria House 
7 Koilaghat Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 
2, Faii lie Place 
P-7 Chowringhee Square 
Treasury Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Street 
P-7 Chowringhee Square 
Writers’ Buildings 

33, Dalhousie Square 
South 

27 & 29, Brabourne Rd 
Treasury Buildings 

33 Dalhousie Square 
7, Koilaghat Street 
1-B, Bankim Chatterjee 

Street. 

34, Chowringhee 


Eastern Rly House 



78 


No. * Names. 

Mukhorji, Kalyaii Kr, ba 
Mukherjeo, Keshubranjan, BSe . . 
Mukherji, Kirau Chandra, bnc 
M ukherji, Krishna Kanta, BCom 
Mukherjec, Krishna Mohan, BSc 
Mukherji, Kshetra Mohan, ba 
Muklierji, Lakshmi M, ba, bl 
M ukhorji, Lai Copal, Bsc 
Mukherjec, Madlnismlaii, BA 
Mukherjeo, Makhan Lai, BSc, BL 
Mukhorji, Manash Kumar, ba 
Mukherjeo, Manudas, MBT 
Mukhorji, Milan Chandra, BA . . 
Mukherji, Mohini Mohan, ba 
IMukherji, Monoranjan, BA 
Mukherjec, Mrinal K, BSc 
Mukhorji, Mritvimjoy Tl, ba 
Mukherjeo. Murari Mohan, BCom 
Mukherji, Naiini Banian, ba 
Mukhorji, N. R., ma (Com) 
Mukherjeo, Nilraiau, BCom 

Mukhorji, Nirapada, use 
Mukherji, Nirmal Kumar, Bi;om. . 
Mukherjeo, Nirinal Kumar, BSc 
Mukherji, Nirinal Kanti, Boom . . 
Mukherji, Nirmalendu, ma 
Muklierji, Nirmalendu, ma 
Mukherji, Nishapati, Boom 

Mukherjeo, Pannalal, BA 
Mukherjeo, Paritosh, BSe 
Mukhorji, P K, Boom 
Mukherjeo, Parbati Nath, BA 
Mukhorji, Parbati Sankar, Bcom 
Mukherjeo. Paresh Chandra, MA 

Mukherjeo, Pashupati Nalh, MA 

Mukhorji, Pash u pat 1 , it a 
Mukherjeo Prabir Kumar, BCom 
Mukherjeo, Pranab Kumar, MA 
Mukherjeo, L'romode Kr,|BCom .. 
Mukhorji, Pravat Kr, bl 
Mukherjeo, Kahiitdra Kumar, MA 
(( Join) 

Mukherji, Babindra Nath, ba 
Mukherji, Babindra Nath, Muoin 
Mukhorji, Badhapada, ba 
Mukherji, Badha Raman, BOom 
Mukherji, Raj at K, Boom 
Mukherjeo, Bam chandra, BA . . 
Mukhorji, Bebati Banjaii. bso 
Muklierji, Saehindra N, bsc 
Mukherjeo, Sachohidananda, MSe 
Muklierji, Saiiendra Nath, bl 
Mukherji, Sailesh Ch, ba 
Mukherjeo, Salil Kumar, BHc 
Mukherjeo, Sanat Kumar, MA 
Mukherjeo, Sanat Kumar, BA . . 
Mukherjeo, Samir Chandra, BSc 
Mukherji, Sanjit Kumar, bsc 
Mukherjeo, Sankar Lai, MA 


Style or calling. 

Clerk, Grade II, Boserve Bank of India 

U D C, Telegraph Cheek Office 

SGC, I) A-G, P & T Office 

Clerk, Grade Tl, Reserve Bank of India 

Hd Asstt, Deep Sea Fishing, Board, West Bengal . . 

U D C, D A-G, P & T Othce 

Marketing Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 

Asstt, Local Self-Government & Panehayats 

U I) C, D A G, P & T Office 

Inspector, Election Dept, Oorpn of Calcutta 

U D Clerk, Controller of Coal Accounts Office 

Asstt Teacher, Oriental Seminary 

Inspector, Collection Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 

Clerk, Lloyds Bank, Ltd 

Clerk, Improvement Trust 

U D C, D A G, P & T Office 

II D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 

U D 0, D A G, P & T Office 

U 1) Asstt, Home (Transport) Dept, West Bengal 
U D Clerk, Tea Board 

Hd Clerk, Associated Electrical Industries (India) 
Pte Ltd. 

11 A, Government of India Stationery Office 
Ul) Clerk, Income Tax Office 
U 1) C, Income 'Pax Offic e 
Clerk, Grade Tl, Boserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade II, Boserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U D Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

II D (J, D A G, P A T Office 
Auditor, A-G, West Bengal 

V D Clerk, Tea Board 
[!])(', Income Tax Office 

1 1 D Asstt, Home Dept, Press, West Bengal 
Accounts Cl, Avery & Co 

Teacher, Surendra Nath Collegiate School 

Clerk, Williamson Magor & Co 

Auditor, A-G. W. B- 

IJ D C, D A G, P & T Office 

V 1) (J, Telegraph Cheek Office 

Clerk, Mills Dept, Jardine Henderson, Ltd 

V D (\ D A G, P & T Oftice 

Hd. Assistant, Geological Survey of India 
tJ D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Clerk, Gr I, Boserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Gr 11, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A-G W. B- 
Clerk, Jr C E S C, Ltd 

LDC, Government of India Stationery Office 

U D C, Income Tax Office 

Court Chirk, Calcutta Improvement Trust 

Financial Acetg, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 

UDC, Office of CIT, West Bengal 

Auditor, A G Bengal 

Asstt, Office of I T O, S I B 

U D C, D A G, P & T Office 

Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 

U D C, Office of Income* ‘ — 


Residence or place of 
business. 

8, Council House Stn* 
33 Dalhousie Squats 

7, Koilaghat Street 

8, Council House Stu*et 
33 Chittaranjan A\e J11Ja 
7, Koilaghat Strict 

(>, Church Lane 
Writers’ Buildings 
7 Kailaghat Street 

6 S N Banerjec ltoad. 
1, Council House Street 
336 Upper Chitpoiu 

5, S.N. Banerjee Boad. 
—51, Nctaji Subha s U„j M 
10, Netaji Bubble Head 

7 Kailaghat Sired 
7, Koilaghat Sti *eet 
7 Kailaghat Street 
Writers* Building-,. 

27 & 20 Brahourne Bom 

6, Misson Bov . 

3, Church Lam* 

P-8, Brabowrnc I L>:id 
4 Hast ings Street 
S, Council Noun* Sluvt 
H, Council House Stmt 
Treasury Buildings 

33, Dalhousie Square, 

» South. 

7 Kailaghat Hired 
Treasury Buildings. 

27 & 29, Brahmins* IM 
4 Ilusl.iltgs Slier! 
Writers’ Buildings 
Avery House, \\ at <*i lt«» 
Street. 

24/2 Mahatma Camlli- 
Hoad 

4, Mangoc Lane 
Treasury Buildings 
7 Kailaghat Street 
33 Dalhousie Sqn.in* 

4, Clive Bow 

7 Kailaghat Si reel 

27, Chowringhee 

7, Koilaghat Si reet 

7, Koilaghat SI red 

8, Council House Street 
8, Council House Stn'l 
Treasury BuiUmsw- 
Victoria House 

3, Church Lam 1 

l>-7 Chovvringlici 

10, Netaji Sul •ha* }4, ’ llJ I 

«, Church Buie 

P-7, Chowringhcc «•/«»'’ 

Treasury Builrt |n - S 

P-7 Chowrinirhec |S| I ' a> 

7 Kailaghat St 
77/2, Park ' Srrt ' H 
3, Govt. Pl“ te Mcsl- 



Named. 


Mukherji, Santa Gopal, Boom 
Mukherji, Santimoy, Boom 
Munsi, Masiruddin, BA 
Mukherjee, Satinath, BSc 
Mustafy, Debabrata, BA 

Mukherjee, Sasanka Mohan,MCOM 
Mukherjee, Sudhansu Slink liar, 
Mukherji, Satish Ch, ba 
M ukhorjee, Satish Chandra, B.A. 
Mukherji, Satya Ch, Boom 
Mustafy, Deb Kumar, BA 
Mukherji, Satya Ran j an, ba 

Nag, Subrata Kumar, BA 

Mukhorjee, Sbibapada, MOom . . 
Mukhorjee, Shibram, BA 
Mukhorjee, Shyama Charan, bso 

Mukherji, Shyamadas, msc, bt 
Mustafy, Suprabhat, MCOM 
Mukherji, Sisir Kumar, Boom 
Mukherjee, Satya Narayan, BSC 
Mukherji, Surendra Nath, Boom 
Mukherji, Subhoranjan, Boom 
Mukherjee, Sudhangshu Kumar, 
use 

Nug, Pariinal, BSC 
Mukherjee, Sudhanshu Sekhar, 

BA. 

Munshi, Suprasauna, BA 
Mukherji, Sukhamoy, ma 
Mukherjee, Sarit Kumar, BA 

Mukherjee, Sunil Chandra, BCOM 
Mukherjee, Siddheswar, B.A. 
Mukherji, Sunil Kumar, ma 
Mukherjee, Sunil Krishna, BA 
Mukherji, Surath Kumar, ba 

Mukherji, Surja Kumar, Boom . . 
Mukherji, Suresh Ch, bso 
Mukherji, Susanta Kumar, ba 
M ukherjee, S P, BCOM 
Mukherjee, Saroj Kumar, BA 
Mukherjee, Swapan Kuman, BA 
Mukherji, Tapan Kumer, ba 
Mukherji, Tapan Mohan, bsc* 
Mukherji, Taraknath, BCom 
Mukherji, Taramohan, bcoiu 

Mukherji, Tarapada, ba 
M ukherji, Tulshi Narayan, ba . . 
Mukherji, Tridib Kumar, ba 
Mukherjee, Umaprasad, MCOM . . 
Muldioty, G N, bsc; 

Mundi, Jogeswar, ba 
Mukhorjee, Sudhir K, BSC 
Mukherjee, Sisir Kumar 
Murshed, Sy<*l Mutlab, BA 
Muklitsrjw, Santi Kumar, MCOM 
Mukherjee, Swadesh Ranjan, BA 
MukherjiHj, Sushil Kumar, BA . . 
Muklierji, Sukharanjan, BA 


N 

fanab Wahidar, BSc 
Dhruba Ran j an, Boom 
: v a k r , -hil ad Baran, BCom 
Vr^’ Mrigendra Natli, BCom 
a g, Nalini Kanto, ba 
^uthuswami, V, BA 

v ag> ^anab Kumar, ba 

Sukumar Chandra, BSC . . 
H> Shyamal Kumar, ba 


79 


Style or calling. 


Senior Machine Operator, C E S C Ltd 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

Dist Organiser, National Savings Organisation, W B 

U D C, Office of C I T, West Bengal 

U D C, State Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd 

U D C, Income Tax Office 

Asstt Master, City Collegiate School 

L D C, Government of India Stationery Office 

Ins, Income Tax Office 

Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 

Clerk B, C E 8 C Ltd 

Clerk, B I Accts Deptt, Mackiimon Mackenzie 
& Co, Ltd 

D A Marketing Officer, Agricultural Marketing, W 
Bengal 

Auditor, A-G, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G, W r ast Bengal 
Demonstrator, Surendra Nath College 

Asstt Master, Scottish Church School 
U D C, D A-G, P & T Office 

Stores Clerk, Alkali & Chemical Corpn of India Ltd 

Clerk B, C E S C Ltd 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

Bill Clerk, Stewarts & Llyods of India 

Clerk, Shaw Wallace & Co, Ltd 

Toucher, Hindu Academy 
Auditor, A-G, W 7 est Bengal 

Hd Asst t, Geological Survey of India .. 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
F Ins Gr III, State Trading Corpn of (1) Ltd 

U D C, D A-G, P & T Office 
U D 0, T) A-G, P & T Office 
Nupdt. Geological Survey of India 
Auditor, A-G, W'est Bengal 

Clerk, C S V & Loans, Sun Life Assuranee Co of 
Canada 

Section Hoad, Martin-Burn, Ltd 
U 1) Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Asstt, Finance Dept 
Acott, Govt of Tndia Forms Press 
Auditor, A-G, Bengal 
l» J) Asstt, Education Dept 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Surveyor, Land Acquisition Branch 
Asstt. Finance Dept 

Clerk, Acts Dept, Maokinnon Mackenzie & Co., 
Private Ltd. 

Clerk, Bengal Chamber of Commerce 

IJ D Chirk, D A-G, P & T Office 

U 1) Clerk, Chief Auditor’s Office, Eastern Rly 

U D C, Income Tax Office 

L D Clerk, Tea Board 

Auditor, A-G’s Office 

IT I) C, Telegraph Chock Office 

U D Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept 

Asstt Supdt, Hogg Market Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 

Dist Organiser, National Savings Organisation, WB 

Clerk B, C ESC Ltd 

Offg Hd Cl I, W B Fire Service 

Steno, State Trailing Corpn of (T) Ltd 


Sr Cl, Contrl of Stores, Copn of Calcutta 
Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, The Mercantile Bank of India, Ltd 
Auditor, A-G, West Bengal 
Dy Asstt Valuer, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
S G C, State Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd . . 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Inspector, Income Tax Office •• y 

Accts Asstt, Stewart & Lloyds of India Private Ltd. 


Residence or place of 
business. 

Victoria House 
8, Council House Street 
Hindusthan Buildings 
P-7, Chowringhee Square 
32, Dalhousie Square 
South 

4, Hastings Str»*<t 
13, Surya Sen Street 

3, Church Lane 

4, Hastings Street 

8, Council House Street 
Victoria House 
Hi, Strand Road 

Writers* Buildings 

Treasury Buildings. 
Treasury Buildings. 

24/2, Mahatma Gliandhi 
Road. 

73, Cornwallis Street 
7, Koilaghat Ntiwt 
34, Chowringhee 
Victoria House 

5, Council House Street 
41, Chowringhee Road 

4, Bankshail Street 

50, Amherst Street 
Treasury Buildings. 

27, Chowringhee 
Treasury Buildings 

32, Dalhousie Square 
South 

7, Koilaghat Street. 

7, Koilaghat Street 
27, Chowringhee 
Treasury Buildings. 

23 B, Notaji Subhas Hoad 

Mercantile Buildings 
7, Koilaghat Street 
Writers’ Buildings 
1 , Temple Street. 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings. 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Building 
Writers' Buildings 
lb, Strand Road 

«, Netaji Subhas Road 
7, Koilaghat Street. 

Iff, Strand Road 
3, Govt Place West 
27 & 29, Brabourne Rd 
Treasury Buildings 

33, Dalhousie Square 
Waiters’ Buildings 

5, S. N. Banerjee Fid 
Hindusthan Buildings 
Victoria House 

1 3D, Fr<ie School Street 
32, Dalhousie Square 
South 


5, S. N. B uner jee Road. 

S, Council House Street 
Mercantile Bank Buildings 
Treasury Building' 

10, Netaji Subhas Road 
32, Dalhousie Square 
South 

Treasuiy Buildings 
3, Govt Place West 
41, Chowringhee 



80 


No. Name®. 


Style or calling. 


ttaidenoe or pl^ 
business. 


Nag Chowdhury, Hemendra 
Prosad, MA 

Nair, Sukurnaran, BSC' 

Nandi, A joy Kumar, MA 
Nandi, AmuJya Bhusan, BA 

Nandi, Bibhuti Blmsaii, Boom . - 

Nandi, Biswanath, ba 

Nandi, Ohittaranjan, BA 
Nandi. Horamba Kumar, BCom 

Nandi, Jitendra Nath, ba 
Nandi, Nrityagopal, ma 

Nandi, PashiV|>ati, BOom 
Nandi, Piyus Kanti, BSC 
Nandi, Rama Pro sad, ma 
Nandi, Satya Gobinda, BSC 
Nandi, Satya Saran, ma(ooiii) . . 

Nafidi Majumdar, Tarun Ch. bso 

Narakrishan, C S, BSC' 

Narayan, PH, BA, BCOM 

Naskar, Ajit Kumar, ba 
Naskar, Kamal Cli, BA * • 

Nath, D M, bsc 

Nath, Dwijendra Nath, BA(H) . . 

Nath, Harendra Chandra, bso, . . 
BCom 

Nath, Haro Krishna, ba 
Nath, Manindra Kr, ba 

Nath, Manoinolian, ba 
Nawn, P C, ba 
N o< >gi , H irendra N » th , m sc 
N eogi, Ajit Kumar, b(h>w 
Niyogi, Ajit Kumar, ba 
Niyogi, Anil Chandra, ba 
Neogi, Haripada, BCOM 
Neogi, Pabitresh, BSC 
Neogi, Sib Kumar, BSC^ 

Neogi, Sunil Kumar, BSC' 

Newaz, M Khoda, MA 


Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India . . 8, Council Rou^ g 

Aeott, D A-G, P&T . . . . • • 7, Kailaghat 8t re *. 

U D C, D A-G, P & T . . . . • • 7, Kailaghat 8tr*, 

Asstt, Life Ins Corpn of India Oriental Govt Security 2, Olivo Row 
Life Assurance Co 

Clerk, Actte Dept, Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co 16, Strand Uofwj 
Private Ltd. 

Clerk (Books Dept), The Hongkong & Shanghai 31, Dalhousie Sq Uj 
Banking Corporation 

Hd Clerk, Income Tax Office . . . . P-7, Chowringhep ! 

P/Goods Clerk, Rallis (India), Ltd . . . . 16, Hare Struct 

Accountant, Martin Bum, Ltd . . • - 12, Mission Row 

Inspector, I T Office, West Bengal . . -4, Hastings Strict 

Clerk, Lloyds Bank Ltd . . . . • • 29, Netaji Subhas 

U D C, Telegraph Check Office . . . . 33, Dalhousio Squ 

Clerk, Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd . . 23B, Netaji Subhas 

UDC, DA-G, P&T .. •• 7 , Kailaghat 8tr« 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India . . 8, Council House 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India . . . . 8, Council House 

U 1) C, D A-G, P&T . . . . • • 7, Kailaghat Kttv, 

F Ins Gr III, State Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd . . 32, Dalhousic 

South 

Auditor, A-G, West Bonsai - • . Treasury Buil.lm 

UDO, DA-G.P&T .. .. •• 7, Kai labial Sin, 

L D Clerk, Tou Board • • 27 & 2!), Uialssm 

Acctt, 1) A-G, P&T . . • ■ • • 7, K.ailagliat ,Sti„ 

U D Clerk, Income Tax Office • • 3, Govt. Place Ww 


Acctt, A-G ’s Office, West- Bengal 

Dealing Clerk, Joint Chief Controller of Import and 
Export 

Clerk, Gr I, Reserve Bunk of India 
IT D Clerk, Tea Board 

Investigator, (Commerce & Industries jJupjtrtment. 
Supdt, Board of Secondary Education 
Clerk, Gr I, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
Inspector, Income Tax Office 
U I) CM) A-G, P&T 
Auditor, A-G, Bengal 
UDC, DA-G, P&T .. .. 

l^aw Asstt, Commissioner of Wakls, West Bengal . . 


Treasury Buitdmj 
4, Esplanade has 

8, Council Housr 
27 & 29, Braboiir 
Writers' Buildup 
77/2, Park Street 
8, ('our toil House 
10, Netaji Subha 
3, Govt Place Wi 
7, Kailaghat Stre 
Treasur\ Buildmj 
7, Kailaghat Strw 
6/2, Miidan Stive 


P 

Pakraslii, A run Kr, BCom 
Pal, Balai Ohand, ba 
P al, Bareiulra Narayan, bsc 
P al, Bhabendra Chandra, ma 
P al, Biswanath, Bse 

Pal, Haradhone, bcom 
Paul, Hrishikesh, BA 

Pal, Indu Bhusan, BCom 
Pal, Jiban Krishna, BSC 
Pal, Jitendra Nath, BCOM 

Pal, Jitendra Nath, ba, oa, li.b 

Pal, Joydeb, BA 

Pal, Kanai Lai, ba 


Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Education Directorate 
Auditor, A-G’a Office, West Bengal 
Auditor. A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, 1 C I (India), Ltd 

Clerk, Balmer Lawrie & Co, Ltd 
U D C, D A-G, P&T 

Clerk, Gr I, Reserve Bank of India 
U D C, D A-G, P&T 
U D C, D A-G, P&T 

Clerk, Gr I, Reserve Bank of India 

Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 

Jr Technical Asstt, Office of the Registrar of Com- 

TMininfi 


8, Council Hou# 

Writers’ Buildm 


Treasury Baildik 
Treasury Builds 
34, ('hov\Tiiigl lt>e 


21 , Netaji 
7, Kailaglud M 1 



8 , Council Hcutf 
77/2, Park Street 

P29. Mi«u° D ^ 



Names. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


p a l, Kodar Nath, ba 

p a l, Kishori Mohan, ba 

pal. Lakshman Chandra, BA 

Pal, Lalit Mohan, ba 

p^ Madhusudan, Mcom 

pal, Manoj Kumar, BSC 

Pal. Monoranjan, BA 

Pal, Monoranjan, boom 

Pal. Monoranjan, BA 

Pal, Nadior Chand, MA 

Pal, Narayan Chandra, Boom 

Pal, Nilmony, BCOM 

pal. Paresh Chandra, BA 

pal, Pmsanta Kumar, MA 

Pal, Kamesh N, bsc 

> a l, Han jit Krishna, BSC 

Paul. Saktipada, BA 

pa), Shy am S, Boom 

Pal, Subhits Kumar, BSo 

pal. Subodh Krishna, bsc 

Pal, Sudhir Itanjan, booiu 

Paul dim udhuri, Anil Kumar, 

BSc, BOorn. 

Pal ('liaudlniri, Sudhir Kr, BSC . . 

Palit, A. K., ba 

Palit. A j it Kumar, BSc 

pain, Nagondra Nath, BA 

Pancluman, Ashim Kr, MA 

Paiukya, Kara Sewak, MAs 


Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 
UI)C, Stationery Office 

Asstt, Land Acqn Br, Land & Land Revenue Dep 

Asstt. Land Acquisition Branch 

Asst, Lovelock & Lewis 

U T) C, I T Office 

U D C, Telegraph Check Office 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Clerk, E Rly 

U D C, Govt of India ForniB Stores 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

UI)C, Telegraph Check Office 

U I) C, I) A-U, P & T Office 

Asstt Teacher, Oriental Seminary 

Clerk, Gr 11, Reserve Bank of India 

U D C, D A-G, P & T Office 

Asstt, Requisition Br, Land and Land Rev Dept 

Audit Clerk, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 

U 1) C, I T Office, West Bengal 

IT D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 

Inspector, Collection Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 

U DC, IT Office 

Selection Grade, U D Clerk, Tea Board 
U J > Asstt, Education Deptt 
U D C, Telegraph Check Office 
U D C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
Asstt Teacher, St Xavier’s Collegiate School 


Pandit, Bhupendra Narayan. ba 
Paiija, H K, BA 
PaiijiJL, Murari Mohan, BA 
Partlwisarathy, R, BOom 
Palltak, At ill Ch, BSc 
1‘athak, Ham Kumar, ba 
Piithuk, Sushil Ranjan, MOom 
Patra, Hajendra Nath, ba 
Paul, Basn dev Charan, BSC 
Paul. B. K. 

Paul, Pul in Behari, BSC 
Piplai , Chittaranjan, BSC 
P'ddar, Ksliitish Chandra, ba 
Pttidar, Monoranjan, BSC 
ftddar, Had ha Raman, Boom 
Puddur, Sridhar Kumar, BSc . . 
-Po:al, l»ravat Kumar, BSC 
^uianiok, Kliagendra N, BA . . 
^nauick, Ramakanto, ba 
^nick, Ratan Ch, ma 
Lilian, Manimoy, BA 
Lilian, Motilal, bsc 

Bejon Behary, 

^bittaranjan, bsc 
F**. Sailendra N, Moom . . 
i * Ajit Kumar, MCOM 


Asett, Education Directorate 

SG C, State Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd . . 

Hd Cl, I T Office, West Bengal 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

IT D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 

Clerk, The Indo Burma Petroleum Co . . 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 

U D C, I) A-G, P&T Office 

Asstt Eugr, Drainage, Corpn of Calcutta 

U D C, D A-G, P&T Office 

U D AhhU, Medical Br, Health Dept 

Clerk, Gr IT, Reserve Bank of India 

UI)C, D A-G, P&T Office 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

U D C, I T Office, West Bengal 

U I) C, D A-G, P&T Office 

Clerk B, C E S C Ltd 

Asstt, Calcutta Improvement Trust 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

U D C, Telegraph Check Office 

U D Clerk, D A-G, P&T Office 

L D C, Home (Transport) Dept 

Auditor, A G’s Office 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

U D C, D A-G, P&T Office 


8, Council House Street 
3 Church Lane 
Writers' Buildings 
Writers* Buildings 
4, Lyons Range 
3, Govt Place West 
33, Dalhousie Square 
Treasury Buildings 
Eastern Railway House 
166 Dhuramtalla Street 
8, Council House Street 
33, Dalhousie Square 
7, Kailaghat Street 
336 Upper Chitpore Road 
8, Council House Street 
7, Kailaghat Street 
Writers’ Buildings 
B4, Clive Buildings 
3, Govt Place, West 

7, Koiiaghat Street 

8, Council House Street 

6, S. N. Banerjee Road 

P-7, Ohowringhee Sqr 
27 & 29, Braboume Road 
Writers’ Buildings 
33, Dalhousie Square 
33, Dalhousie Square 
30 Hark Street 
Writers’ Buildings 
32 Dalhousie Square 
3, Govt Place, West 
8, Council House Street 

7, Koiiaghat Street 

8, Netaji Subhas Road 
8, Council House Street 
8, Council House Street 
7, Kailaghat Street 

6 S. N. Banerjee Road. 

7, Kailaghat Street 
Writers’ Buildings 
8, Council House Street 

7, Kailaghat Street 

8, Council House Street 
3, Govt Place, West 

7, Kailaghat Street 
Victoria House 
10, Netaji Subhas Road 
8, Council House Street 
33, Dalhousie Square 

7, Koiiaghat Street 
Writers’ Buildings 

Treasury Buildings 

8, Council House Street 
7, Kailaghat Street 



82 


Mo. Name*. 

R 


Style or nailing. 


R**idenoe or pj^ 
buBiuoai 


Rah a, Pros&nta Kr 
Raha, ttantosh Kumar, ba 
Rahman, Janab Fazlur, BL 
Rahman, Khalilur, BA 
Rahaman, Manjur, ba 
Raja Gopalan, R, BA 

Rajaraman, G V, BA 
Ramanathan, V, BSC 
Rakshit, Krishna Pada, bsc 
Ramamurthy, V N, Boom 
Raman, Sunderam Vonkat 
Ramarao, P, BA 

Rana, Bo joy Kumar, BSC 
Rana, Kunja Behari, Bcom 

Rao, P S B (Boom, bl) 

Ratnam, M K, BA 

Ray, A jit Kumar 
Ray, Amal Chandra, ba 
Ray, A. K., ba 
Ray, Amitananda, BSc 
Ray, Amiya Kumar, ma 
Ray, Amiya Kumar (2), MCom 
Ray, Anil Krishna, M.A 
Roy, Anil Kumar, ba 
R ay, Anil Kumar, ba 
R ay, Animesh, BSC' 

Ray, Anupam, BCom 
Ray, Arun Gopal, ba 
Ray, Ashoko (Chandra, MA 
Ray, Asliokr Kumar, BSC' 

Ray, Asoko Kumar 
Ray, Ashoko Kr, BA 
Ray, Atalendu, MA 
Ray, Bansari Lai, ba 
Roy, Barindra Kr, ba 
R ay, Bonoy Kumar, BA 
Ray, Benoy Krishna, BSC 
Ray, Biman Kumar, MA 
Ray, Bharat Ch, BA 
Ray, Bharat Chandra, BA 
Ray, Bikash Chandra, bsc 
Ray, Bimalananda, ba 
R ay, Biinal Kumar, ma 
R ay, BimalChandsa, BA 

Ray, Bimal Krishna, BA 
Ray, Bimalondu, BSc 
Ray, Bipul Chandra, Boom 
Ray, Birendra Nath, Boom 
Ra}% Bishnupada, msc 

Ray, Biswanath, ba 

Ray, Brahmapada, BA 

Ray, Brahmendu, ba 

Ray, Braja Ballav, ba 

Ray, Brojendra Kumar, BA, LLB 

Ray, Dakshina Ranjan 

Ray, Dobabrata, ma, Boom 

Ray, Deb Kumar, Boom. 

Ray, Debranjan, BA 
Roy, Deb Prosad, boom 
Ray, Dhirendranath, ba 
Ray, Dilip Nar&yan, MCOM 
Ray, Dinesh "Kumar, Boom 
Ray, Dwijendra Lai, BA 


U D Clerk, DA-G.P&T Office . . . . . . 7, Koilaghat Str m 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal . . . . Treasury Buildup 

A F S O, F S Dept, Corpn of Calcutta . . . . 5, S. N. Banr r , (M . j 

U D C, Telegraph Check Office . . . . 33 Dalhoush* s t p lai 

Asstt, Home (G A) Department . . . . Writers’ Buildup 

U D C, State Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd . . 32 Dalhousn* a 

South 

Acctt, D A G, P & T Offico . . . . 7 Kailaghar Stn^j 

U D 0, DAG.I’&T Office . . . . 7 Kailaghat Str« 1 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India . . 8, Council Hoiis.^ 

Clerk, Gr IT, Reserve Bank of India . . 8, Council Ih>u M .^ 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co, Ltd . . 4, Bankshal Ktr»*t, 

U D C, State Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd . . 32 Dal In »usi»* « 

South 

Foreman Gr (V), C ESC Ltd . . . . Victoria lhm, N * 

Sr Clerk, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd . . 23B, Netiiji g 

Road. 

Asstt, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd . . . . 23B, Netaji S 

Road. 

S G C, State Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd . . 32 Dalhousir i 

South i 

Accounts Dept Clerk, Brooke Bond India, Ltd . . 2, Metcalfe Sim«t 

Supdt., Reserve Bank of India .. .. 8, Council Houv s 

Asst Supdt, Tea Board . . 27 & 2B, BrabourJ 

Auditor, A-G, West Bengal . . . . Treason Riiildms 

Auditor, A-G ’s, Office, Wet- 1 Bengal .. . . Treasun Bmldmi 

Auditor, A-G, West Bengal .. .. Treasun Biuldmp 

Inspector, Collection Dept, Corpn of Calcutta . . 5, S. N Uanor|e K 

Sr. Asstt, Board of Secondary Education . . 77/2, Park Nr<ri 

Supdt. Reserve Bank of Lndia . . . . 8, Council Houm ^ 

U D C, Income Tax Office, SIB . . 3 Govt Place Uni 

Inspector, Election Dept, Corpn of Calcutta . . f>, S. N .Bam*r|o ] 

Meeting Clerk, Calcutta Improvement Trust . . 10, Netaji Nuhha« 

Auditor, A-G, West Bengal. . . . . . Treasury Building 

V 0 C, Income Tax Office, SIB . . . . P-8 Brah«.urm Kr 


Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Income Tax Office, SIB 
U 1) C, I) AG, P & T Office 
IT D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
IT D Clerk, Iron & Steel Control 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U I) C, Income Tax Office, SIB 
Auditor, A-G, Bengal 
U D C, Telegraph Chock Office 
U 1> C, I) A G, P & T Office 
U D Asstt, Rome Dept (Transport) 

Clerk, Gr I, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Hd Asstt. Dept of Agriculture & Food Production, 
West Bengal. 

U D C, Telegraph Check Offico 
Asstt, L A Branch, Land and Land Rev Dept 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Passage Dept, Maekiimon Mackenzie & Co, 
Private Ltd 

Clerk, The Mercantile Bank of India, Ltd 

U D C, Telegraph Check Office 

U D Assistant, Reqn Br, Land & Land Rev Dept. 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Asstt, Directorate of Agriculture 

Acctt, Elec, Co, Martin Bum Ltd 

Ledger Keeper, Grindlays Bank, Ltd 

Asstt Supdt, A-G, West Bengal 

U D Clerk, Iron & Steel Control 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Clerk, ERly .. 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

UDC,D AG, P&T Office ... .. 


4, Banksliall St 
P-7 Chou ringing 
7 Kailaghat Stwt 

7, Koilaghat Stive! 
33, Netaji Su bhas 
Treasury Buildingl 
P-7 Chou ringing 
Treasun Biul'iiutf 
33 Dalhoiisei S»|uaJ 
7 Kailaghat 

Writers’ BiuMn^ 

8, Coum-il Hoiw* 
Treasury lluiidmgi 
Writers' Building 

33 Dalh(»usi(‘ Si]»i 
Writers’ Jinildings 
Treasun Buildup 
8, Council 1 » use SL 
Hi, Straii'l B«»«d j 

Mercantile 
33 Dalh.Hisu‘Ni«j 
Writers' Bulling 

Tw^asury BuiWi 
Treasury 
Writers' HuiU"j 

12, Miss"' 1 B°" 
fi Oharoh 1*®* J 

Treasury.^ 

33. Neatj. « 
Tre^uryB 11 ^? 

3 

Treasury 
7 KailftS lmt 



33 


Names. 


Style or calling. 


Residenoe or place of 
business. 


Kav, Gobinda. ba 

Kay, Gopal Chandra, Boom 

Kay, Gauranga Deb, BA 


Clerk, Grade T1 , Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
V D C, State Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd . . 


8, Council House Street 
8, Council House Street 
32 Dailiousie Square 
South 


Kay, Haripada, ba 

Kav, Hari Sankar, bsc, Boom. 

Kay, Homendra Nath, BA 
Kay, Himadri Bhusan, MA 

Kay, Hirendra Nath, BCOM 
Kay. Hiran Prakash, MA 
Kay, Hrisliikosh, MA 
Kay, J K, ba 
K ay, Jitendra Nath, BA 
Kay. Jogesh Chandra 
Rav, Jogesh Kumar, ba 
Kit v , Kali Kumar, ma (com) 

Kay, Kamal KrI, BA 
Kay, Kamalendu, bk, of. 

Kay, Kauai, BA 

Kav, Kashinath, B Se Boom 

Kay, Kedar Nath, B Sc, LLB 
Kav, Kcshab Chandra, MA 
\ {u \ f Khagenctra Nath, ba 
R av, Kumud Bandhu, bsc 
K ay, Madan Mohan, BA 
Kay. Mad hu sudan, MA 
Ray, Midati Bhusan, Mcom 
Kay. Miliir Kumar, BSC 
Kav , Mrinal Kanli, BCOM 

Kav , Nulini Kanta, bsc 
Kav. Nalini Ranjan, BA 
Kav, Nalini Ranjan, Boom 
Kay, Narayan Cliandra, bcoju. . . 
Kav, Nemai Chandra (1), MA 
Kav , Nirmal (Chandra, ba 
Kay, Nripendra Mohan, ma 
Kav . Nityaranjan, MA 

Kav, Prabodh Chu BA 

Kay, Prasanta Kumar, MA, BT 

Kay, Priyalai, BA 

Kav, Pronob Nath, ma . . 

Kay, Provash Ch, BA 
Hay, Rabindranath, ba 
H ay. Rabindra Raj, BA . . 

lUty, Ramaprosad, ba 

Huv , Iiamendra Nath, bsc 
H ay, Ranajit (II), BSC 
Hay, Raimolian, BA 
Ha\ , Sailcihh Kumar, ma 
H a\ , Sailendra Madhab. bso 
Hav . Sainareiulra Narayan, MA 
Hay, Samir Kumar (2)* BA 
Hay, Sankar Prosud, BA 

Ra .V, Santosh Kumar, B Sc 
Hay, Sashi Shekhar, BA 

r Ky, Saroj Gopal, bsc 

Jkiy, Satyabrata, BSC 
f a .v, Satyendra Ch, ba 
&ebak Krishna, BA 
Ra y> Sisir Kumar, bsc 
j^y, Sourendra Nath, BCOM 

Sourendra Kumar, BCOM, 

aca 

Ra V, Subinoy, B Sc 

, Sudhir Kumar, ma 


Clerk, Gr. II, Reserve Bank of India . . 

Asstt, Lovelock & Lewis 
U I) C, 1) A G, P & T Office 

Asstt, West Bengal Provincial Co-o]>erative Bank 
Ltd 

U D C, 1) A G, PAT Office 
Auditor, A-G, W B 
Sr Asstt, E Rly 
U D Clerk, Tea Board 
Acctt., A.-G., W B 

Estimator, Planning & Dev Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 
Sr. Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
Clerk, (Tirade 1 1 , Reserve Bank of India 
U D C, 1) A G, P <& T Office 

Supdt, Design Drawing Office, Calcutta Improve- 
ment Trust 

Inspector, Collection Dept., Corpn. of Calcutta 
L.D. Asstt., Director of Veterinary Services, W. 
Bengal. 

U D C, Office of T. T., W. Bengal 
Auditor, A-G, W B 

Supdt, Board of Secondary Education 
Clerk, (bade 11, Reserve Bank of India 
IT 1> 0, T) A G, P & T Office 
Asstt Teacher, Oriental Seminary 
U D C, Commerce & Industries Department 
U DC, DAG, P&T Office 
IT I) C, J) A G, P & T Office 

Stores and Purchg Officer, Geological Survey of India 
Auditor, A-G, W B 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, George Reed & Co 
Auditor, A-G, W B 
Clerk, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
Supervisor, Williamson Magor & Co, Ltd 
U I) C, Income Tax Office . . 


8, Council House Street 
4, Lyons Range 
7 Kailaghat Street, 
l(> Old (Tourl House 
Street, 

7 Kailaghat Street, 
Treasury Buildings 
Eastern Railway House 
27 A 29, Brabourne Rd 
Treasury Bids, 
b S N Banerjee Road 
77/2, Park Street 

8, Council House Street, 

7 Kailaghat Street 

10, Netaji Subhas Road 

f>, S N Banerjee Rd. 

New Secretariat 

Buildings. 

P-7, (Thou riugee Square 
Treasury Bids. 

77 /2 Park Street 
8, Council House Street 
7 Kailaghat, Street, 

33b Upper Chitporo Road 
Writers’ Buildings 
7 Kailaghat Street, 

7 Kailaghat Street, 

2T , Chowringbee 
Treasury Buildings 
8. Council House Street 
Avenue House 
Treasury Buildings 
10, Netaji Subhas Road 
4, Mangoe Lane 
P-7 Chowringhee Square 


IT D Asstt, Office of the Labour Commsr 
Asstt Master, Hindu School 

Clerk, A, C E S C, Ltd 
Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

U D C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
17 I) C, Telegraph Check Office 

Asstt, Annuity Department, Sun Life Insc Company 
of Canada 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West, Bengal 

U D C, Telegraph Cheek Office 

Auditor, A-G, W B 

U D Asstt, Co-operation Department 

Budget Clerk, Commissioner of Excise Office 

Acctt., A-G, W B 

Auditor, A-G, W B . . 

Investigating Officer, Agricultural Marketing, West 
Bengal 

Auditor, A-G, W B 
S G C, State Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd 

Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

U D C, D A G, P & T Office 
Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 
Jr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U D C, D A G, P & T Office 
Asstt, Octavius Steel & Co Ltd 

Auditor, A-G, W B 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 


1, Hastings Street 
IB Baukim Chatterjee 
Street 

Victoria House 
33, Dailiousie Square 
South. 

33 Dailiousie Square 

7, Koilaghat Street 
33 Dailiousie Square 
23B, Netaji Subhas 

Road 

Treasury Buildings 
33 Dailiousie Square 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 

‘Treasury Buildings 
32 Dailiousie Square 
South 

33, Dailiousie Square 
South . 

7 Kailaghat Stn-ot 

8, Council House Street 
77/2 Park Street 

Treasury Buildings 
7 Ki lag hat Street 
14 Old Court House 
Street 

Treasury Buildings 
Treaauiy Building# 



No. 


Naum. 


Style or calling. 


Betfdonoe or plaoe. 
business. 


Ray, Suhas Kumar, BOom 
Ray, Sukhendu Bikash, BCom 
Ray, Sunil Kumar, ba 

Ray, Sunil Kumar (1), BSc, 

B Com. 

Ray, Sunil Kumar (2), BA 
Roy, Sunil Kuinar, ba 

Ray, Susanto Kumar, Boom 
Ray, Kusil Kr, BA(Hons) 

Ray, Sushil Kumar, BA 
Ray, Sushil Chandra, MA 
Ray, Tarapada, ba . . 

Ray, Tarun Kumar, BA, LLB 
Ray Chaudhuri, Amarendra, bsc 


Clerk, Rallies (India), Ltd . . 

Auditor, A-G, West Bengal 
V D Assistant, Home Department 
West Bengal 

Auditor, A-G, West Bengal, . 


. . 16, Hare Street 

. . Treasury Buildings 
(G A), Writers’ Buildings 

. . Treasury Buildings 


Auditor, A-G, West Bengal. . 

Asstt- in -Charge, Iron & Steel Control 

Clerk Grade II . Reserve Bank of India 

TId Asstt, Direct* irate of Panchayets 

Auditor, A G, West Bengal 

Auditor, A-G, West Bengal 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India . . 

Dist Organiser, National Savings Organisation, WB 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 


Treasury Building, 
33, Netaji Subhas I 

8, Council House sti 
Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
8, Council House Stn 
Hindusthan Ruildinj 
Treasury Buildings 


Ray Chaudhuri, Amiya Ran j an, 

BA 

Ray Chaudhuri, Anil Kr. ba (H) . 
Rai Chaudhuri Artin Kt. BSC 
Ray Chaudhuri, Bhupal, ba 
Rax Chaudhuri, Bimalendu, ma 
Rai Chaudhuri, Birnan Kumar, BA 
Roy Chaudhuri, Gaganendra N., 

BKO 

Ray Chaudhuri, Ganapati, BA 
Ray Chaudhuri, Gouri Sankar 
Rai Chaudhuri, Hitendra Kishore, 
BSC, BL 

Ray (<haudhiiri, Kamal Kumar, 
BCOM 

Rai Chaudhuri, Manabendra Lai, 
MCOM 

Rai Chaudhuri, Manindra, MA . . 
Ray Chaudhuri, Nalinakshya, ma 
Rai Chaudhuri, Nihar Ran j an, BA 

Rai (chaudhuri, Narayan Chandra, 
BA 

Rai Chaudhuri, Nripendra Kr, BA 
Ray Chaudhuri, Prafulla Kr, MA 
Rai Chaudhuri, Prosanta Kumar, 

Rai Chaudhuri, Prosanta Kr, BSC 
Rai Chaudhuri, Pran Kumar, 
Ray Chaudhuri, Ramesh Chandra 
Rai Chaudhuri, Schindra, BSC . . 
Ray Chaudhuri, Sahasrangshu 
Kumar, BA. 

Ray Choudhurv, S K, Boom 
Rav (Chaudhuri, Sailendra N., 

* BL. 

Ray Chaudhuri, Sailendra Nath, 
Boom 

Rai Chaudhuri* Shyamal Kumar, 
MA 

Ray Choiulhury, Siba Prosad, BA 
Rai Chaudhuri, Shibani, MA 

Rav Chaudhuri, Subodh Kumar, ba 
R ai Chaudhuri, Subodh Ranjan, 
BCOM 

Rai Chaudhri, Triptiinoy, BCOM 
Rodrigues, John, ba 


S G Clerk, I) A-G, P & T Office 


7, Koilaghat SI rm 


S G Clerk, D A-G, P & T Offioe 
Clerk. — E. Rly 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G.’s Office, West Bengal 
U D 0, D A G, P & T Office 
H C, Stationery Office 

IT T) C, D A G, P & T Office 
Clerk, I C I (India) Ltd 
Administrative Officer, West Bengal Dor 
Board 

V T) C. T) A G, P & T Office 
U i) C, J) A G, P & T Office 


. . 7, Koilaghat Street 

Eastern Rly Hou^ 

. . Treasury Buildingn 
Treasury Building., 

7 Kailaght. Stioci 
3, Church Lam* 

7 Kailaghat Ktrm 
. . 34, Chowringhoc 

p sea fishing 33 ChitLi ranjan \\ 

7 Kailaghat Si red 
7 Kailaghat S»rw*i 


Jr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education . . 77/2 Pari; Street 

U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office. . . . . . 7, Koilaghnt Street 

Sec TTd, Life Insurance Corpn of India Oriental Govt 2 Clive Row 
Security Life Assurance Co 
U 1> C, State Trading Corpn of India, Ltd 


U I) C, J) A O, P & T Office 
Inspector, Income Tax Office 
U 1) 0, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 

U I) C, Telegraph Chock Office 

Asstt Engr, Planning Dev Dept Corpn of Calcutta 
Asstt, James Finlay & Co . . 

IT D C, Telegraph Check Office 
Sr Cl, Election Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 

Cashier, Central Tea Board 

Tnsjieotor, Collection Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 

Auditor, A-G's Office, West Bengal 

U D Asstt, Home (Passport) Dept 


32 Dalhousic Niji 

South 

7 Kailaghat Street 

4 Hastings St reel 

32 Dalhousic Sc 
South 

3 Dalhousic Square 

5 S N Bauer jeo Low 
2, Netaji Suhhas Uo 

33 Dalhosic Square 
f>, S. N. Bancr|cc 

27 & 29, Brahournt* 1 
5, S. N. Banerjcc Hoi 

Treasury Buildings 

11A Free* School Str 

Writers' Buildings 


U 1) Asstt, Education Dept 
Asstt National Savings Officer, National Savings Hindusthan Buildini 
Organisation, W B 

Clerk, Calcutta Improvement Trust . . 10, Netaji Subhas K 

IT D 0, Telegrah Check Office . . . . 33 Dalhousic Square 


IJ D C, Telegraph Check Office 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 


33 Dalhousic Square 
7, Koilaghat Street 


Roy Mitter, Tapon, Boom 
Rudra, Deb Kumar, BSC 
Rudra, Kala Chand, ba 
R udra, Nripendra Ch, BA 

Rudra, Purnendu Kumar, ba 


Audit Clerk, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co . . B4, Gillander House 

. . U D C, Telegraph Check Office . . . . 33 Dalhousic Square 

. . Statistics Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co . . 6, Church Land* ^ 

. . Oevrseas Correspondence Asstt, J E Thomson & Co 9A Esplanade hash 
Ltd 

. . File Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co . • . . 6, Church L* ne 



Names. 


85 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


s 


g^lann, Jojit Singh, Boom 
j*ha, Ambika Prosad, ba 
^ a( l} lU , Atindra Nath, ba 
5 a( j| ltli Janendra Nath, Boom 
^lhuUian, Monmotha N, BSC . 
5,iha. Ajit Kumar, bso 

A uuil Kumar, BCom 
Am ulva Ratan, BSC 
BahM, Anil Kumar, ba 
ftoha, Bala rain, BA .. 

Halm, Hanku Boliari, BSC 
Slim Burcndra Nath, BA 


Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A-G's Office, West Bengal 
Acctg Section, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
U T) C, D A G, P & T Office 
Pay-Roll Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 

UDC, CT, WB’s Office 

Inspector, Income Tax Office 

Sr Asstt. Secondary Board of Education 

HY1 Asstt , Geological Survey of India . . 

U D C, 1) A G, P & T Office 

UDC, IT Office 


8, Council House Street 
Treasury Buildings 

6 Church Lane 

8, Council House Ntroet 

7 Kailaghat Street 
b, Church Lane 

3 Govt. Place West 
II Govt Place West 
77/-, Park Street 
27 Cliowringhee 
7 Kailaghat Street 
Incomc r rn\ Office, l)t 
VA 


H.dm. Kenoy Bhusan, bsc 
Buh. i Biivmlra Chandra, BA 
Jhshnupada, BCom 
S.iliM, lhojo Bhusan, BA 
Nilia limjogopal, ma, Boom 
Slim (raurunga Ch, BCOM 
Nih;i (hiiirpada. BA 
,s,iha (rniiranga Kumar. BA 
INilm, H L. worn 
jSaha, Hiralal, (1) Boom 
jNihii llindal (2), BA 
kih:i .Jwgapada, BA 
klm. Kali Prasanna, bsc 
Nilm. Kali Prasanna, ba 
N ih.i Kt shah Gopal, BA 

Si!m Krishna Chandra, BA 
Km. i Miidlmsudan, BA 
Silm Muitnda Charan, BA 

Sih.i Nikhilcndu Kr, BSC 


Acctt., I) A-G, P & T Office 

Hd Asstt , Geological Survey of India .. 

Divisional Acctt, A-G, West Bengal 

UDC 1 , DAG, P& T Office 

Auditor, A-< i's Oftiro, West Bengal 

Asst I Land Rev Br Land and Land Revenue Dept 

U DL DAG, P iV T Oilier 

lid Asstt, Geological Survey of India . . 

Audit Clerk, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 


7, Koilaghat Street 
27 Chowringheo 
Treasury Buildings 
7 Kailaghat St reel 
Treasury I hi i Mings 
Writers* Buildings 
7 Kailaghat Street 
27 Clmw ringhee 
B4, Gillendcr House 


Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U D Assistant, Commerce and Industries Dept 
IT D Asstt, Education Directorate 

L 1) Asstt, Land Rev Br, Land and Land Revenue 
Dept 

IT 1) (\ I) A G, P fll T Office 
Clerk, E Rly 
IT D C, I T Office 


II I) C, I T Office 


Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
Writers' Buildings 
Writers' Buildings 


7 Kailaghat Si reek 
Eastern Rl\ House 
Income Tax Office, Dt 
VA 

P-7 Chowringhoe Square 


haha, Marendra Nath, ba 

Kiha Nagcndra Nath, MA 
Kdia, Nityananda, ba 
^lia. Mit yanaiida, BSO, BT 
Kdut, Notai Chand, Boom 
balm, Padiimlochan, BSC 
Pnnchu Gopal, MA 
baha, Praia]) Chandra, BSc 
Puma Chandra, ba 


^Ka, Kajendra Lai, MA 

^h. Kamlal, BCom 
^iha, S (J, ba, BCom 
Sat chid ananda, ba 
hdlia ’ «lhhendra Nath, MA, BT . . 


^ha, Sisir Ranjan, MA 
vSuhhas Ch, ba 
Suhhomaya, ba 


Nukhendra, BSc 
,^ Ul ' ^ Us har Kanti, Boom 
‘ ^ *Sardar Prabir Kr, BA 
J u ’ A i it( Kumar, bso 
8 ^ ^umuihar, BSo 
\* h 'Iftgannath, BA 

S a( lflcr, Jnanendra Nath, ] 
Amalendu, BSC 
Profulla Kumar, 


Assistant, Education Directorate, D P 1, West 
Bengal 

Inspector, I T Office 

Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 

Teacher, Hindu Academy 

Jr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 

Asstt, Local & Self Govt &. Panchayats Dept 

Clerk, Grade 1, Reserve Bank of India 

IT D C, 0 T I, West Bengal’s Office. . . 

S G Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

U D Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

Auditor, A G, West Bengal 
Proh Asstt, Reserve Bank of I ndia 
Section lncharge Diiectorate of Registration 
Asstt Teacher, Oriental Seminary 


Writers’ Buildings 

P-N Brahournc Road 
77/2 Park Street 
f»0 Am hoi st St 11*01 

77/2 Park Street 
Writers* Buildings 
8, Council House Street 
P 7 ( -liowi inghee Square 
33, Dalhousie Square, 
South 

33, Dalhousie Square 
South 

Trasary Buddings 
8, Council House Street 
Writers* Buildings 
338 Upper Chitpore 
Road 


Asstt, Land Reforms Branch, Land & Land Rev 
Dept. 

Asstt Sales clerk, Stewarts & Lloyds of India Private 
Ltd 

Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
Auditor, A-G, West Bengal 


Writers’ Buildings. 

41, Clio writ ighec Road 

77/2, Park Street 
Treasury Buildings. 


Asstt, Land Acquisition Branch 
1IDC,CIT, Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
UDC, In- come Tax Office, West Bengal 
F JLns Gr III, State Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd 

U D G, D A G, P & T Qffico 
L D Asstt, Heme (Poll C R) Dept 
Asstt Master, Hindu Sohooi 


. . Writers’ Buildings 
. . 3, Govt Place West 

6, Church Line 
. . 3, Govt Place West 

32 Dalhousie* Square 
South 

. . 7 Kailaghat Street. 

. . Writers* Buddings 

IB Bankim Chatterje 



86 


No. Names. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or 
business. 


Samajdar, Raman i Kanta, BA . . 

Samantha, Amalesh Kr., BCom . . 
Sana, Monorail jan, BA 
Santhana, K V, Boom 

tganyal, Amalondu Mohan, ba 
Sanyal, Biswanath, Boom 

Sanyal. Dhireiulra Lai, bso 
Sanyal, Himangshu Kr, Boom 

Sanyal, Kalyan Kumar, ba 

Sanyal, Monoj, bsc 
Sanyal, Muktipadn, BA 
Sanyal, Nirmal Kr, ba 
Sanyal, Prafulla Kumar, bsc 
Sanyal, Rad ha Gobinda, BA 

Sanyal, Sachindra Saran, bsc 

Sanyal, Saroj, Boom 
Sar, Itabindra Nath, BSO 
Sardar, Prafulla, Kr, MA 

Sarkar, Amal Krishna, MA 
Sarkar, A jit Kumar, ba 

Sarkar, Ajit Kumar, BCOM 
Sarkar, Ajoy, ba 
Sarkar, Amal Krishna, BSC 
Sarkar, Amal K u mar, r BCOM 
Sarkar, Anil Kumar, BSC 
vSarkar, Arun Kanti, BCOM 

Sarkar, Amulya Ratan, Boom 

Sarkar, Arun Kumar, BA 
Sarkar, Ashit Kumar, ba 

Sarkar, Be jay Krishna, BA 
Sarkar, Bional Ch, scorn 
Sarkar, Bimalendu, Boom 
Sarkar, Bankim Chandra, ba 
Sarkar, Bi'rendra Kumar, ma 

Sarkar, Bvomkesh. BA, BT 
Sarkar, Debidas, BSc 

Sarkar, Deb I)utta, ba 
S arkar, Devabrata, Boom 
Sarkar, Dilip Kumar, BSc 
Sarkar, Gopal Chandra, BA 
Sarkar, Hrishikesh, ba 
Sarkar, Islam Ali, BA 
Sarkar, Jayanta Kumar, MA 
Sarkar, Jnan Mohan, BA 

Sarkar, Jyoti Bikash, BSC 
Sarkar, Jyotish Chandra, BA 
Sarkar, Jyotish Chandra, BA 
Sarkar, Jyotish Chandra, ma 
Sarkar, Kalipada, BCOM 
Sarkar, Kamal Krishna, BA 
Sarkar, Keshab Chandra, Boom . . 
Sarkar, Krishna Behari, BA 
Sarkar, Manindra Nath, msc . ? 
Sarkar, Manindra Nath, BA 
Sarkar, Nagendra Nath, ba, Bn . . 
Sarkar, Nanda Lai, ba 
Sarkar, Nirmal Kumar /BSC 
Sarkar, Nirmal Kumar, ma (Boom) 

StffvTfWn* Nnrwmi^gvJLam^Ti _ TRST! 


Ledger Cl, Central Bank of India Ltd (Now Market 10 Lindsa\ Xu 
Branch) 

U D Asstt, Education Dept . . . . Writers’ 

U D C, D A G. P & T Office . . . . 7 Kailaghut S tr « 

Typist, Tata Iron & Steel Co Ltd . . . . 23B, Nctaii 

Road 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal . . . , Treasury Build, , 

Clerk, British India Steam Navigation Co 16, Strand 

Ltd. J 

Statistical Asstl, Office of the Labour Commr . . 1, Hastings Xim 

Jr Technical Asstt, Office of the Registrar of Com- P29, Mission ]; (J 
ponies 

Sales Asstt, Stewarts and Lloyds of India Private 41, Chowriiudi,-. 
Ltd 

Demonstrator, Surendra Nath College . . . . 24, Mahatma C, , 

IT DC, DAG, P&T Office .. .. 7 Kailaglmi S,,, 

U D C, Stationery Office . . 3 Church Lane 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal . . . . Treasury Bmldi 

Dist Organiser. National Savings Organisation, Hiiulusthan Hi 
Bengal 

Supdt, lleservo Bank of India . . 8, Council Hon* 

U D Clerk, Controller of Coal Accounts . . 1, Council lions 

Asstt, Income Tax Office .. .. .. P-7 Chowim^ 

U 1) C, Telegraph Check Office . . . . 33 Dallioioi. 

V D C, D A G, P & T Office . . . . 7 Kailaghm n.« 

Auditor, A G’s Office, West Bengal . . Treasury Buildm 

U D C, D A G, P & T Office . . . . 7 KailaglmH.Mi, 

Clerk (Jr), C E S C, Ltd . . . . Victoria House 

IT D C, Income Tax Office . . . . . . P-7 ( 'Imwiiid-i 

IT D C, D A G, 1 > & T Office . . . . 7 Kailuglmt Si-h 


U 1) Asst t , Dc])t of Agriculture & Food Production 

Asstt, West Bengal Provincial Co-operative Bank 
Ltd 

Clerk Gr 1, Reserve Bank of India 

U I) C, Telegraph Check Office- 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

U I) C, D A G, V & T Office 

Clerk, Jr, C E S C, Ltd 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

Hd Asstt, Geological Survey of India . . 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 

Offg Hd Master. City Collegiate School 
Auditor, A G, West Bengal 

U D C, Stationery Office 
Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A G, West Bengal 
U D C, Income 1 Tax Office 
Asstt, Education Directorate 
Ins, Income Tax Office 

U D Asstt, Fisheries Department . . , . 

Auditor, A G, West Bengal 

Asstt. Local & Self-Govt & Panchayats 
U D C, D A G, V & T Office 
Hd Asstt, Geological Survey of India 
Stores Assistant, Geological Survey of India 
U I) C, Telegraph Check Office 
Auditor, A G, West Bengal 
Clerk (Jr), C E S C, Ltd 
Ins, Income Tax Office 

Examiner, Government of India Stationery Office- 
Auditor, A G, West Bengal 
Jr Clerk, C E S C, Ltd 

U D Asstt, Home Dept (Transport), West Bengal 
Hd Asstt, geological Survey of India 
Jr Teohtrioal Asstt, Office of the Registrar of Com- 
panies 

Aottfcfc. ID A IP T Office • • 


Write! s Biiliuili; 

Hi Old < <mn 
Si r«*et 

8, Council House 
33 I >a I lu»w, m< Nji 
Treasury Buddin 
7 Kailaglial N n 
V ictoria House 
8, Council Ho in 
27, Chow rmghee 
8, Council House 
13 Sun a Soli Sir 
Treasury Bmldirn 
3, Church haiu* 
8, Council Houtf' 
Treasury Thiildm, 
P-7 (Miow i inyli'T 
Writers' Buildm; 
P-7 Chow? malice 
Writers' Bmld’H- 
Treasu ry 
Writers* B'liW 
7 Kailagiia^ StM 
27 Chow rim-'l 1 ** 1 

27, Chow'nnu 1 '^ 
33 I.)alliou^‘ ^ 
Treasury Buildup 

Victoria House 

p.7 CIm.wiu 1 ^' 
3, Church L 1Ilf j 
Treasury 

Victoria Hou* se 

Writ ei s’ 

27 rimwringl*V 
P2(), Wi«>i 011 W 

7 KaUagh» c 



Name. 


Style or oalling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


Sarkar, Nishit Ranjan, bsc 

Sarkar, Pabitra Kumar BA 
Sarkar, Paramananda, ba 
Sarkar, Prabhat Kumar, BA 

Sarkar, Pradeep Kr, ma 
Sarkar, Prank rishna. ba 
Sarkar, Prantosh, ba 
Sarkar, Punya Brata, BSC 
Sarkar, Rebat i Kumar, BA 
Sarkar, Sailendra Mohan, bsc 
Sarkar, Saktibrata, Mcom 
Sarkar, Samarondra Nath, ba 
Sarkar, Santosh Kumar, BCom . . 
Sarkar, Saroj Kumar, Moom 
Sarkar, Saraj Nath, ba 
Sarkar, Saureudra N, bs© 

Sarkar, Subodh 

Sarkar, Subodh Chandra, BA, BL 
Sarkar, Susil Kumar, BA 
Sarkar, Uday Kumar, BA 
Sarkar, U S, ba, Bcom, aca 
Sarkar, Ctpalendu, MA 

Sump, Saeliehidananda, BA 

Seal, Adhir Chandra 

Seal, Gour Lai, Bcom 

Seal, Nirmal Kumar, ba 

Seal, Ramesh Ch., Bcom . . 

Sen. Abani Moban, BA 

»Sen, Ajit Kumar, ma 

Sen, Ajoy Kamal, bsc (Distil) 

Sen, Anil, ba 

Sen, Anil Kumar, ma 

Sen Anupam, ma 

Sen, Arindam, ba 

Sen, Arun Kumar, ma 

Sen, Arun Kumar, MCom 

Sen. Anil Ranjan, BSC 

Sen, Ashis Kusum, Boom 

Sen, Ashoke Kr, ba 

Sen, Birendra K, ba 

Sen, Brojondra Kumar, BA 

Sen, Chandi Das, Boom 
Sen, Charu Chandra, BA 

Sen, Chitta Prasanna, ba 
Sen, I >andhudas, MA 

Sen ’ Dcbashis, BSC(Hons) 

S ( ‘n, Dijiak Mohan, MA 
Son, Hwariknath, Boom 
Ganeah Chandra, bso 
Copal Krishna, bsc 
^ en » Hem Gopal, ba 
‘V Hriflhikesh, BSC 
7* 11 ’ ’l.votirmoy, BA . . 

Kalyan Kumar, BSC 
‘ er '. Kamal Kanti, BSC 
k* 1 ’ Madhmradan, bso 

M &nafce*ds* Nath MA, BSo 


Jr Technical Aastt, Office of the Registrar of Com- 
pancies 

Auditor, A G, West Bengal 

Clerk, Or I, Reserve Bank of India 

IT I) C, State* Trailing Corpn ol (1) Ltd 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Clerk, Improvement Trust 

Chemist, West Bengal Public Health Leby 

Auditor, A-G, Bengal 

L D Clerk, Commerce & Industries Deptt 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Asstt. Education Directorate 

Auditor, A G, West Bengal 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

TAR, Standard Vacuum Oil Co, Ltd 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace and Co. Ltd 

S G C, Telegraph Chock Office 

UJ) Asstt, Forest Dept 

Auditor, A G, West Bengal 

Sr Aectt, Tea Board 

Asstt, Wist Bengal Provincial Co-operative Bank 
Ltd 

Jr F Officer, State Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd 

Junior Head Asstt, Animal Husbandry & Veterinary 
Servic.es. 

Asstt, Bank of China 

Staff Asstt, Chartered Bank 

Clerk, Lyods Bank, Ltd 

Ins, Income Tax Office 

Asstt Teacher, Metropolitan Institution 

U D Clerk, D A-G ; P & T Office 

IT D Clerk, Tea Board 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, WohI Bengal 

U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 


P29 Mission Row Extn 

Treasury Buildings 
8, Council Houhc Street 

22 Dalhousie Square 
Sent h 

Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
10, Netaji Subhas Road 
Chittaranjan Avenue 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers' Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
8, Council House Street 
8, Council House Street 
8. Church Line 
4 Bankshall Street 
88 I )alhousie Square 
Writers' Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
127 & 29, Brabonrne Rood 

JO Old Court House 
Street 

22 Dalhousie Square 
South 

Writers’ Buildings. 

15, Brabourne Road 
4, Netaji Subhas Road 
29, Netaji Subhas Road 
8 Govt PI a re Wc st 
89, Sankar Ghose Lane 
7, Koilaghat Street 
27 & 29, Brabourne Rd 
Treasury Buildings 
7, Koilaghat Street 


Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 


Treasury Buildings 


Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U T) C, I T Office, West Bengal 
Chemist, Went Bengal Public Heal < h La by 
Clerk, Grade 1, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
Aectt, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 

Audit Clerk, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 

Asstt, Life Insurance Corpn of India Oriental Govt 
Security Life Assurance Co 
U D Clerk, Iron & Steel Control 

Market Research Officer. Agricultural Marketing, 
West Bengal 

U D C, D A G, P & T Office 

IT 1) C, D A G, P & T Office 

Asstt, Cledonian Insurance Company 

Clerk, Williamson Magor & Co 

U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

Asstt, Requr Br, Land & Land Revenue Dept 

U D C, Income Tax Office . . 

Chemist, West Bengal Public Health La by 
U D C\ D A G, P T Office 
L D C # Income Tax Office . . 

Bales £1, Indian Gable Co, Ltd 


Treasury Buildings 
2, Govt Place (West) 

Chit taranjan Avenue 
8, Council House Street 
8, Council House Street 
8, Council House Street 

22 Dalhousie Square 
Soul h 

B4, Clive Buildings 
2 Clive Row 

22, Netaji Subhas Road 
Write) s ’ Buildings 

7 Kai Inghat Street 
7 Kailagliat Street 
B2 Gil lander House 
4, Mangoe Lane 

7, Koilaghat Street 

8, Council House Street 
Writers' Buildings 

2 Gov< Place West 
Chittaranjan Aw, line 
7 Kailayjfliat Street 
3, Government Place 

n TLHV-Mk ~ ‘ 



No. Names. 


88 

Style or calling. 


Sen, Manindra N, BA 
Sen, Manindra Nath, BA 
Sen, Milonmoy, MA 
Sen, Mohon Lai, ma . . 

Sen, Naresh Chandra, ba 

Sen, Naresh Chandra, BA 

Sen, Nepal Chandra 

Sen, Nit-mu 1 Kumar, BSC 

Sen, Prana b Kr, BA 

Sen, V R, MA 

Sen, Rabimlra Nath, ba 

Sen, Rabindra Nath, ma 

Sen, Sadhu Ch, ba 

Sen, Namarcndra Mohan, BCOM 

Sen Sanjit Kumar, BSC 


U D Clerk. D A-G, P & T Office 
U D C, T) A G, V A T Office 
Jr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
IT 1) Clerk, T) A-G, P & T Office 

Clerk, Acts Dept, Mackinnon Mackenzee & Co 
Private Ltd. 

Auditor, A 0, West Bengal 
Asstt, James Finlay & Co . . 

IT T) C, D A G, P A T Officer 
U D (\ T) A G, P A T Office 
Sub Head, K Rly 

Clerk, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
Asstt Masker, Scottish Church School 
U D Clerk, 1) A-G, PAT Office 
l T T)<\ I) A G. P & T Office 
C I) C, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 


Sen, Sankar Prasad, Boom 
Sen, Sankar Gopak BA 
Sen, Sant i rimy, ba 
S en, Saral Kumar, ma 
S en, Sibeswar, BSe 
Sen, Saurendra Nath. BCOM 
Son, Smriti Kumar, bmo 
Sen, Sublias Oh, Boom 
Son. Subodh Kumar, BA 
Sen, Sudhir Kr, ba 
S en, Sudlurendra Nath, BA 
Sen, Sukumar, ba 

Sen, Sunil Chandra, B Com Dip 
Lib (Cal). 

Sen, Sures Proaaima use 

Sen, Sutcndra Nath, bsc 

Still, Tarak Das 

Sen, Tejomoy, BA 

Sen. Tridiv Kumar, BA 

Sen Gupta, A jit M, bsc 

Sen Gup! a, Ajit Kumar, BSC 

Sen Gupta, Ajit Kumar, boom . . 

Sen Gupta, Ajit Kumar, BA 


Clerk, Gr 11, Reserve Bank of India 

V 1) C, J) A G, P A T Office 
Clerk, State Bank of India 
Asstt, Imveloek A Lewes 

Inspector, Election Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 
Aectt. l> A G, P A T Office. 

Auditor, A G’s Office 

Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 

Auditor, A-G, Bengal 

Clerk, 1 C I, Ltd 

Auditor, A G, West Bengal 

Dealing Asstt, Controller of Import A Export 

Junior Technical Assistant, Secretariat Library 
Branch, W B (Home) Dept. 

Clerk, State Bank of India 
Asstt, Iron A Steel Control 
Clerk, Turner Morrison A Co Private Ltd 
Auditor, A G West Bengal . . 

V DC, 1) A-G, P A T Office 

U D Clerk, 1) A-G, p A T Office 
U 1) C, D A-G. P A T Office 
Clerk, Grade II , Reserve Bank of India 
IT I) C, Income Tax Office 


Sen Gupta, Arun Kumar (2), BCom 

Sen Gupta, Arun Kr, BSc 

Son Gupta, Asit Ran j an, Boom . . 
Sen Gupta, Bala rain. BA 

Sen Gupta, Bejon Kumar, 
ma (Com), LLB 
Sen Gupta, Bhahani, Boom 

Sen Gupta, Bhujauidra Nath, BSC 
Sen Gupta, Bimanendra N, BA , . 

Sen Gupta, Binode Ran j an, 
Boom 

Sen Gupta, Biswajit Kumar, BA 

Sen Gupta, Biswanath, ba 
S en Gupta. Chnndi Das, BSC 
Sen Gupta, Dilijiendu 
Sen Gupta, Dilip Kumar, BCom 
Sen Gupta, Gopika Raman, BA . . 
Sen Gupta, Jitendra Nath, MA . . 
Sen Gupta, Jyotiranjan, MA 
Sen Gupta, Kali Krishna, bso . . 


Dealing Clerk, Joint Chief Controller of Import A 
Export 

U I) Asstt Agriculture A Food Production Dept, W 
Bengal. 

Sales Asstt, Stewarts A Lloyds of India, Private Ltd 
Asstt. Agricultural Marketing, West Bengal 
Asstt, Share Dept, Martin Burn Ltd 

Clerk, Telegraph Cheek Office 
Chemist, West Bengal Public Health Laby 
I) A Marketing Officer, Agricultural Marketing, West 
Bengal 

Fire Dept, Scottish Union National Inso Co 

Dist Organiser, National Savings Organisation, West 
Bengal 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U I) C, D A-G, PAT Office 
Asstt, Directorate of Agriculture 
Acctt, A G .West Bengal . . 

U D Asst t^ Cal collect orate 

Auditor, A-G, Bengal 

Auditor, A G, West Bengal 

Clerk, Telegraph Check Office , * 


Residence or plaoe 
business. 

7, Koilaghat Street 
7 Kailaghat Street 
77-2 Park St reel 
7, Koilaghat Street 
Iff, Strand Road 

Treasury Buildings 
2, Netaji Subhas R 0 a<| 
7 Kailughat Sturt 
7 Kailaglml Sireet 
Eastern Railua\ H„ Uk 
10, Netaji Subhas ifo* 
73, Cornwallis Street 

7, Koilaghat Street 
7 Kailaghat Sheet 

,12 f)alhou.sie Snu^i 
South 

8, Council House Street 
7 Kailaghat Stiei-t 
Queens Mansions 

4, Lyons Range 
fi S. N. Baiie.rjec Ko.ui, 
7 Kailaghat St nri 
Treasury Buildings 
8, Council House Street 
Tieasui \ Buildups 
34, Chowringhee 
Treasury Buildings 
4, Esplanade Hast 
Writers' Buildings 

Queens Mansions 
33, Netaji Subhas Koad 
ff, Lyons Range 
Treasury Build ni!> 

7 Kailaghat Si m-h 

7, Koilaghat Street 
7 Kailaghat Sinn 

8, Council House Strie 1 
Income Tax ntho 1 

V A 

4, Esplanade East 

Writers’ Buildings. 

41, Chowringhee hoad 
Writers’ Buildings 
12, Mission Bow 

33. Dalhousie Sqr Sou# 
Chittaranjan A\cnu# 
Writers' Buildup 

6, Lyons Range 

Hindus! Im" J'.m'tW 

Treasury Building* 

7 Kailn^bai Si root 
Writers' Budding* 
Treasury Buildings 
1J Netaji Siilibus 
Treasury Buddie 
Treasury BuiWW*^ 
33, Dallioiwie W 

Ur Hh (0r^ 



Names . 


Son Gupta, Maiiish Chandra, BSc 
Sengupta, Monoranjan, ma 
S m Gupta, N. H. 

S«*n Gupta. Nirmal, BSC 

Sen Gupta, Nripendrn Kumar, ma 

Sen Gupta, Parosh Ran j an, neom 

S ( .n Gii]>ta, Part Imran |an, BA . . 
S,. n Gupta, Prabir Kr, BSC. Id Ji 
Sen Gupta, Probodh Ran j an, ba 
S en Gupta. Sailon. bsc 
Shi Gupta. Saktimoy. BCOAJ 

Shi Gupta. Sail I Kumar. BA 

Shi Gupta, Saroj K, B«om 
Shi ( riipt a, Sat \ a Han |an BS( ' . . 
S, i, Gupta. Nisir Kumar. BA 
Shi Gupta. Suhir Kumai. BA 
S<*n Gupta. Siidhir Hanjan. BSC 
Sen Gupta, Sukriti Hanjan, ba . . 
Sen Gupta, Sunil Chandra, ba 
Shi < rii pi a , Sunil Kr . BS( 1 
Sen (itipt.i. Sunil Madlinh. BA, BL 

Son Gupta, Sushil C)i., ba 

Sen Gupta, SukIiiI Kumar, BSC. 
HI 

Sen Gupta, Swata Kotu, Boom . . 
Shi Surma Amu I v a Gopa I . BA .. 
Son Sauna, Jagadish Chandra, ba 
S en Sarma, F’rodosh Kumar, Boom 
Sotli , Smith Kumar, JV1A, LLB . . 
Shah, Sukhlal Shivraj 
Shimna. Balwantaraj. MA 
Shanua, Manindra- Lai, RA 
i'hanu .1 ( Miaudlnu i , < Jnpa I 
( h mdia. BS«- 

Mu tf\ , K Ramananda, Bumi 
Shnmi*, A sit Kumar, Room 
s lu>in<- NksIij Kanin BS( ' 

Plianmdra Sekliar MCOM 
Sliunie, Satyadas BA 
^hnin ■ Nom-rndra Nath, MCOM 
SikGar. KFiugendra N. BSc 
( Hons) 

s il'd;u, N K. BSC 
s 'l BainandaH. BA 
S >1. Saha I Chandra, BA 
kimlai. Si sir Kumar, ba 

s, Mh.i Uamrsli (Mnmdra, MA 
^inha. Adhir RrisFma, ba 
^inha. Anil Baran. BA 

Badri Narayan. BA 
Bidhubhusan, BA 
S|, ^ la B»jon Kumai-, BA 
^ t Ul li Jl Biplab Kumar, Bdrni 
Kyomkesh. BSc 
Ohandidas, ba 
J'urgtt butt, MCOM 
‘^riha, Dwijendra Nath, ba, bl' 
& a rakinkar, MA 
®toha, Hriahikaah, ba 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


Acott, A G .West Bengal 

Asstt, Board of Secondary Education . . 

Asstt Engr Drainage. ( -orpn of Calcutta 

V I) C. I) A-G. I* & T Otliee 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West. Bengal 
Clerk, Allahabad Bank, Ltd 

V DC. 1) A G. P & T Office 

Asstt. Office ol I T O. S IB 
Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Asstt. Finance Deptt * 

West Bengal ( \>-operat i\ c. Provincial Bank Ltd 


Treasury Building* 

77/2, Park Street 
5 S N Bauer jee Road 
7 Kailaghat St red 
Treasury Buildings 
Allahabad Bank Build- 
ings 

7 Kailaghat Street 
P-7 Chovvringluv Nipmret 
6, Ohureli Lane 
Writers' Buildings 
l<> Old Court House 
Street 


C DC liieoiue Ta,\ Office .. 

Clerk, (Jr 11, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt. Law (Judicial) Depl .. 

C I ) ( \ Si at <‘ Trading ( Wpn of ( I ) Ltd 
C DC. D A-G, P & T Otliee 
Sr Hd Asstt. Home (Passport) Dept 
Asstt, Finance Deptt 
Auditor, A-(J\s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, E Ply 

Dist Organism. National Savings Organisat ion. West 
Benga I 

Jr Technical Asstt, Office of the Registrar of 
Companies 

Asstt Mast cm*, mdu School 

Asstt, Lovolooiv & 1 Ai wc;H 
L«*ct imir, < rovl College ol‘ Ai t X (hafts 
Auditor, A-G’s Ollioc, r .r E 1, West Bengal 
Br Clerk, Commissioner of Excise Office 
ILd Clerk. Office ot I T Office, West Bengal 
Assistant , Joe wanlal (H12P), Ltd 
Acett, A (J, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-(J's Office, West Bengal 
Auditor A <J West Bengal 


Income Tiix Otliee 1) 
V A 

S, Council House Street 
Writers' Buildings 
32 Dulhousie Sip- Sout h 
7 Kailaghat St rt , et 

1 1A Tree Seliool Street 
Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 

Eastern Railway House 
Hindus! lain Buildings 

P2t>, Mission Row Extn 

IB Bankim Chat ter jee 
Street. 

4, Lyons Range. 

2S Chowringhee Road 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 

2 (Jovt Place. (West) 

ill, Netaji Subhas Road 
Treas 1 1 rv Bu i Id i ngs 
'Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Building > 


Clerk, Gi II, Beserxe Bank of India 
Clerk, Martin Burn A Co, Ltd 
lb-monos. Smvndia/Nat h College 

l* DC. I) A-( J, P .V TjGll.er 
(J D Clerk, D A-tJ, P &. r L’ Office 
C D < D Adi. P <V T ( )ffiee 
V D C, 1 T Office. West Bengal 


X, Council House Street. 
12, Mission flow 

24-2 Mahatma Gandhi 
Road 

7 Kailaghat St i eel 
7, Koilaghat. Street. 

7 Kailaghat Street 
3 (Jovt. Place (West ) 


V DC J> A-( J. J* A T Office 
( Mark. E RJ\ T POV Office 

V DC, D A-(J. P & T Office 

Ci )rk, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 

Asstt Teacher, St Aa\ icr’s Collegiate School 
U 1> C, Stationery" Office 

V D (\ Home ("Transport ) Dept 
r T> C, D A-G. P & T Office 

Inspector, Collection Dept, Corpor of Calcutta 
Asstt Rcqnr Br, Imiul y Land Revenue Dept 
Asstt, Lovelock & Lewes 
U D Asstt, Educat ion Department 
Clerk, Gr 1, Reserve Bank of India 
Inspector, Income "Tax Office 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Asstt, Board of Secondary Education . . 
Clerk, Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd 


. . 7 Kii ilaghat Si reel 

.. 17 Net a |i Suhliav Load 

. . 7 Kaiiaghal St nn 

.. 23B, Netaji Kulihas 

Road 

. . 3( I ] 4 a rk St i •-* -l 

3, Church Lane 
Whitcis BmldiUL’s 
7 Kailaghat Street 
. . 5 S. NT. Bancrjcc Road 

Writers Buddings * 

. . 4, Lyons Range 

. . W riters' Buildings 
. . S; Council House Street 
4 Hastings Street 
. . Treasury Buildings 
. . 77-2 Park Street 

. . 236, Netaji Suhitatf 



90 


Mo. 


1 


Name*. 


Style or nailing. 


fteaidenc* or pj, , 
businoig * 


Sinlia, Jyoiish Chandra 
Sinha, Jyotiprokash, bcojl» 
Sinlia. Kalipada BA 
Sinha, Kainala Kania, ba 
Sinha, Kshitisli Chandra, BA 
Sinha, Mali Lai, BA . . 

Sinha, Nalinakshya, ba 
Sinlia, Narayan Oh 
Sinha, Nil K atari, ba 
Sinha. Rabindra Lai, bsc 
Sinha., Rama Shankar, mcom 
S inha. Sana iika Mohan. BA 
Sinlia, Sasanka. Sokhar, Boom 
Sinha, Sibaprasad, Boom 
Sinha, Nirmrajst Kumar, MA 
Sinha, Sonina th, MA, i,i.b 
Sinha, Subliabrata, BA 
Sinha, Tara Kanta, ba 


AhrH , Diiect oi.ifo ol Agriculture 

Clerk, Telegraph Check Oifico 

V DO. I> A-G, I* A: r r Office 

Postal Clerk, Rallies (India), Ltd 

l T I) C, !) A-G. P A’ T Office 

Acctt, A G ,West Bengal 

U I) Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 

Clerk* Standard Vacuum Oil Co 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

Asstt Valuer-, Calcutta Improvement Trust 

Accountant, Allahabad Bank, Ltd 

U DC, Income Ta.\ Office .. 

Clerk, Grade 1 1, Reserve Bank oi India 
Auditor, A-G*s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor. A ( J ,West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A G, Went- Bengal 
Clerk, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 


Sinha, Tarapada. BOOM 
Sinha Ray, Anil Kumar, bsc 
Sinha Roy, Satyabrata, BA 
Sitaranmiurl In. \ , 1>A 
Solainmn. Mr! BA 
Srinivasan, K alyana sundaran i 
Subramanian, M, ma 
Snbramanian, PA, MA 
Subramanian, V A, bsc 
Sur, Netai Cliand BSC 
S> cd, Abdul link mi . . 


V I) (\ Telegraph Check < )ff i <*<* 
Asstt, Finance Dept 
U 1) C, 1 T Of! ice, W B 
r i) c, i) A-G p fa r r office 

C 1)0. Telegraph Cheek Office 
Olerk, Grindlays Bank, Ltd 
Prob Asstt, Reserve Bank of India 
Acell. D A-G, P & T Office 
Clerk , Gr TT, Reserve Bank of India 
l T DAssll Home (Spo< ml) Dept 
Assll Diic<toial< ol Agi iciilturt 


Writci-B’ fi'uMm,,, 
33, Dalhousif* x* j j 
7 Kailaghai ,s 1|M , 
16, Hare Strata 
7 KaiJagha i s, MfJ 
Treasury Bu,|,i m , fi 

7, Koilaghal St re<* 
6, Church Lane 

8, Council House; 
10, Netaji SuM^ 
Allahabad Bank L 
P-S Brnhoun,,. |; () 
8, Council Hnus ( j 
Treasury BmlHing 
Treasury Buildup 
Treasury Buildup 
Treasury Buildup, 

23B, Neta 31 i 
Road 

33 Da lit Mr S' j i{, 
Writers’ Buildup. 
3 Govt Plac* 1 (\\r 
7 Kailaurh.ii S» r* < t 
33 I )a I houM< ,•> )ii ( i 
6, Churdi L;uie 
. S, Council 1 1 on, sc 
7 Ka ihii’h.il S, ■ « 1 1 
8, Council Holier 
Will C Buduii.^ 
Widen l’i'iU ( 'i'j 


T 

Taliei Ka/.i Abu, BA 

l DC Telegraph Gluck Office 

. . .33 1 ».i lin.'ii i. .m, ii 1 

Tagore, Semoy Kumar, MA 

Audit. Cl, Lovelock fa, Lewis 

4 Lyons fLurji 

Talukdar, Dumndra Nath. BA 

D DC, IT Office, West. Bengal 

. . P-7 Clio * .M‘dic» O' 

Talukdar, Surlhansu Kumar, Boom 

Auditor, A-G’i< Office, West Bengal 

. . Trea. urv Hmlding 

Tara Ida r San pi Kumar, B< ’OM 

Sen ii i( \ Cl C< lit mil Bank ol (1) Ltd (New Market 

Br) Id Lind? a; Sin < 

Thakur, Liman Beha.r\, BA 

Slate Trading Curpn o( India Ltd 

33 D.ilfuuiM' 

South 

Thakur, Lalit Mohan, ba 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

. . Treasury Building 

Tudi. M Anu.'n Khan BSC 

Acctt. D A-G P faT Office 

7 KailfUili.il S- m - 

Trips! hv, Ram Pi osar 1 MSC Dip 

Asstt Teacher. Si NavierV Collegiate School 

30 Pm k Mm 1 

l<M 

Tudu Hindu, BA 

l 1 D <\ Telegraph ( ‘hcck Office 

. . 33 Dalhon.Mi 


U 


IJpadhya Sunil Kumar 


Clerk, Ac.etts Dept, Brooke Bond (India), Private 2, Metcalfe Mn* 1 
Ltd 


V 

Vankaleshwar. R. A.vyagaru, 
bcjoiu 

Vardhan, HarsK 

Varik, Kumar Narayan, ba 
Viswanathan, K ly ^r, bsc 


Audit Clerk, l^rice Waterhouse Peal fa Co 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace fa Co, Ltd 
/ 

Physical Instructor, Sanskrit College 
Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India . . 


B-4, OiCnMer U“' 

4 BankshMl Street 
1, Banking Cbatt^ 
8 , Council Hous* 

West 






(Ealrutta 







CAITRA 29 ] 


THURSDAY, APRIL 19, 1962 


[8 AKA 1884 


PART 1A— Orders and Notifications of the Government of India; Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India; and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 
and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India” are only 

republished. 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 
NOTIFICATION 

No. 82/36/62. llth April 1962. In pursuance oi 
the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 86 of the 
Representation oi the People Act, 1951, the Election 
Commission hereby publishes a copy of the Election 
Petition No. 36 of 1962, presented to the Com- 
mission on the 7th April 1962, under section 81 of 
the said Act, by Shri Nakul Chandra Sahis, mauza 
Bhutam, P.S. Puncha, P.O. Bhutam, district Purulia, 
calling in question the election to the Legislative 
Assembly of the State of West Bengal from the 
Jaipur constituency of that Assembly of Shri Adwaita 
Mandal, mauza Haludkanali, P.S. and P.O. 
Ranibundh, district Bankura. 

BEFORE I HE ELECTION COMMISSION, 
NEW DELHI 

In the Mattel of an election petition 
under the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 

And 

In the Matter of purported election 
for Jaipur Legislative Assembly 
Constituency No. 203, Purulia, West 
Bengal, held on the 21st day of 
February 1962 

And 

In the Matter of Nakul Chandra Sahis, 
residing at mauza Bhutam, P.S. Puncha, 
P.O. Bhutam in the district of Purulia, 
Petitioner 

versus 

(1) Adwaita Mandal, falsely alleged to 
be a resident of mauza Haludkanali, 
P.S. and P.O. Ranibundh in the district 
of Bankura, but actually and ordinarily 
residing in mauza Sirishgora, P.S. 
Bandwan in the district of Purulia. 


(2) Prahlad Bauri residing at Munsif- 
danga in the town of Purulia, district 
Purulia. 

(3) Bishnu Charan Das, residing in 
mauza Nadiara, P.S. Purulia, P.O. 
Nadiara, in the district of Purulia. 

(4) Keshari Rajowar, residing in mauza 
Dumdum, P.S. Purulia, P.O. Chharra 
in the district of Purulia. 

(5) Jajneswar Das, resident of Alanngi- 
danga, P.O. and P.S. Purulia, 
Respondents. 

The humble petition of the above- 
named petitioner 

Most respectfully sheweth: 

1. Your petitioner is a citizen of India and a 
person whose age was at all material times more 
than 25 years. Your petitioner is an elector as 
defined in clause (e) of section 2 of the Representa- 
tion of the People Act, 1951 (hereinafter referred to 
as the “said Ad”), and is not subject to any of the 
disqualifications mentioned in section 16 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1950. Your 
petitioner's name is duly entered in the electoral roll 
of the Manbazar Legislative Assembly Constituency 
in the district of Purulia. Your petitioner possesses 
all qualifications for membership of the State 
Legislatures as prescribed by or under the 
Constitution of India or any law made by the 
Parliament. 

2. On the 21st day of February 1962 the general 
election of a member of the State Legislature from 
the scat of the Jaipur Legislative Assembly 
Constituency (reserved for Scheduled castes), to the 
West Bengal Legislative Assembly took place. 

3. Your petitioner and the respondents were the 
only contesting candidates for election as a member 
of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly from the 
said Constituency. The symbols chosen by and 


62 


THE CALCUTTA (iAZETIE, APRIL 19, 1962 


lPart^ 


allotted to your petitioner and the respondents under 
the Conduct oi Election Rules, 1961, framed in 
exercise of the powers conferred by section 169 ol 
the said Act were as stated hereunder:— 

Your petitioner- Two bullocks with yoke on. 

Respondent No. I - By-cycic. 

Respondent No. 2 Ears ol corn and sickle. 

Respondent No. 3— Scales. 

Respondent No. 4 — Tree. 

Respondent No. 5 — Flower. 

4. On the 26th day ol February 1962 the 
Returning Officer ol the said Constituency declared 
the result oi the said election and returned the 
respondent No. J as duly elected. In the return of 
election and in the final result-sheet as prescribed by 
me Conduct ol Election Rules, 5,324 valid votes were 
shown to have been polled in favour of your 
petitioner and 7,853 votes in iavour of the respondent 
No. 1. Ihe respondent No. 1 purported to secure 
2.529 votes more than those cast in your petitioner’s 
Iavour. 

5. Your petitioner states that the purported 
election oi tne respondent No. 1 is void and liable 
to be set aside inter alia on the ground that on the 
date ol his election the returned candidate was not 
qualified, and/or was disqualified, to be chosen to 
fill the seat under the Constitution of India or the 
Representation of the People Act, 1962. 

Particulars 

The seat in the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly from the Jaipur Legislative Assembly 
Constituency No. 203 in the district ol Purulia, 
West Bengal, was reserved under the provisions 
ol Article 332 of the Constitution for the 
Scheduled Castes as defined or described in 
Article 34J of the Constitution. In the list ol 
Scheduled Castes contained in the Constitution 
(Scheduled Caste) Order, 1950, as amended by 
the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes 
Lists (Modification) Order, * 1956, issued in 
pursuance of section 41 of the States 
Reorganisation Act, 1956, and section 14 of the 
Bihar and West Bengal (Transfer of Territories) 
Act, 1956, Sunri (excluding Saha), is not a 
Scheduled caste in the district of Purulia undo 
tlu* provisions oj Article 341 of the Constitution 
m relation to the State. The respondent No. i 
is ordinarily resident in mauza Sirisligoru, 1\S 
Band wan in the Bandwan Legislative Assembly 
Constituency and his name was duly iceordecl 
as an elector in Serial No. 4, Part 409 (B) of the 
Flcctoral Roll duly prepared lor the Bandwan 
l egislative Assembly Constituency in the district 
ol Purulia; but with the ulterior object of 
contesting the said election as a member of the 
Scheduled Castes from the Jaipur Legislative 
Assembly Constituency No. 201, the respondent 
No. I got his name falsely or fraudulently and 
illegally recorded or entered in Serial No. 261 
of Part 156 in the Supplementary Electoral Roll 
o! the Ranibundh Legislative Assembly 
t onstitucncy in the district of Bankura though 
m fa* t he was not ordinarily resident in the said 
Constituency in Bankura or a resident in mauza 
Haludkanali. The respondent No. 1 had 
fraudulently and in utter breach of the provisions 
of section 17 of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1950, caused his name to be entered 


in the Electoral Roll of the said Ranibundh 
Legislative Assembly Constituency purporting 
show that he being a sunri was a member t 
the Scheduled Castes in relation to the State 
ot West Bengal, and as such was entitled to 
contest the election of a member ol the State 
Legislative Assembly from a seat reserved l0r 
the Scheduled Castes, though as stated above 
Sunn is not specified in the Constitution 
t Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950, as amended bv 
the Scheduled Castes and Tribes List! 
(Modification) Order, 1956, to be a Scheduled 
Caste in the district of Purulia. Your petition 
states that regard being had to the provisions oi 
Article 341 of the Constitution read with tu e 
Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950, as 
amended by the Scheduled Castes and Tribes Lists. 
(Modilication) Order, 1956, so far as the district 
oi Purulia is concerned, Sunri is not a Scheduled 
Caste and as such the respondent No. i being 
not a member of any Scheduled Caste mentioned 
in the said order was not entitled in law or 
qualified to be chosen to fill a seat in the 
Legislature of a State reserved for the Scheduled 
Castes in the district of Purulia. The respon- 
dent No. 1 is also disqualiiied under section 5 
of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, 
and liable to be imposed with penalty under the 
provisions of Article 193 of the Constitution, tor 
he knows that he is not qualified lor member- 
ship of the State Legislature from a seat reserved 
for Scheduled Castes. 

6. Your petitioner states that in fact your peti- 
tioner received a majority of the valid votes. In any 
event, but for the votes obtained by the leiurned 
candidate (who was and is disqualiiied as utoiesaidi 
and/or the votes obtained by the returned candidate 
by corrupt practices, the petitioner would haw 
obtained a majority of the valid votes, in the 
premises your petitioner prays that your petmonei 
may be declared to have been duly elected hom the 
said Constituency. 

7. Your petitionei has duly deposited in thi 
Reserve Bank of India in favour ol the Election 
Commission a sum of Rs. 2,000 as security ior cosb 
ol this petition and the relative Government licasun 
loceipt is enclosed hereto with si\ attested copies <" 
this petition is requiied under Ihe Rub's 

Vouj petitjonei, thcrcfoic, puns tha f 
be determined and deei ud that ttu 
lespondent No. 1 Adwaita M-ukIjI 
not duly elected or returned, tint hr 
election was void, and tfn " 1UI 
petitioner be declared to haw l** 01 ' 
elected and returned. 

And I oi this your petitioner as in duty hound Hiall 
ever pray. 

Verification 

1. Nukul Chandra Sahis, the petitioner ahnvej 
named, do herebv declare that the statement "i 
the paiagraphs in the foregoing petition are ? * l,,> 
my knowledge. 

I sign this verification on the 4th day 
!%2 at No. 50jj Chowringhee Rojd, Calcutta 

NAKUL CHANDP^ SAHIS 
By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Scc> 


MlsurtJ No. C207 


(Halrutta 





CAITRA 29] 


THURSDAY, APRIL 19, 1962 


PART IB.— Educational Notices 


[SARA 1884 


TENERAL council and state faculty of 

AYURVEDIC MEDICINE, WEST BENGAL 


8 Lyons Range, (2nd floor), Calcutta-1 
NOTIFICATION 


IV. The undermentioned candidates are declared 
to have passed the First Ayurvedtirtha (A. S. F.) 
Examination of the Faculty held in December 196): — 

(Arranged in order of merit) 

Roll No., Name and Institution. 


The 24th March 1962 

1 The undermentioned candidates are declared 
to have passed the Final M.A.S.F. Examination of 
the Faculty held in December 1961: — 

(Arranged in order of merit) 

Roll No., Name and Institution 

1 Bangde, Waman Balaji, J. B. Ashtanga Ayurved 

Vidyalaya. 

2 Chakravarty, Nani Gopal, J. B. Ashtanga Ayur- 
ved Vidyalaya. 

li. The undermentioned candidates are declared 
to have passed the First M.A.S.F. Examination of 
the Faculty held in December 196T. — 

(Arranged in order of merit) 

Roll No., Name and Institution 

j Patro, Bellana Krishna Chandra, J. B. Ashtanga 
Ayurved Vidyalaya. 

f> Tripathy, Amulya Chandra, J. B. Ashtanga 
Ayurved Vidyalaya. 

4 Das, Sitikantha, J. B. Ashtanga Ayurved 
Vidyalaya. 


HI- The undermentioned candidates arc declared 
to have passed the Preliminary M.A.S.F. Examination 
of the Faculty held in December 1961 : 


(Arranged in order of merit) 
Roll No., Name and Institution 


Mahapatra, Brojonatha, J. B. Ashtanga Ayurved 
Vidyalaya. 

1 Banerjee, Saurav Kumar, J. B. Ashtanga 
Ayurved Vidyalaya. 

\rl F al ’ Radhashyam, J. B. Ashtanga Ayurved 
viayalaya. 

4 Patnaik, Behara Krishna Mohan, J. B. Ashtanga 
Ayurved Vidyalaya. 


1 Bhatta, Bhagirathi Prasad, Shyamadas Vaidya- 
shastrapith. 

2 Bhattacharyya, Ashok Kumar, Shyamadas 
Vaidyashastrapith. 


V. Die undermentioned candidates are declared 
lo have passed the Final Ayurvedtirtha (A. S. F.) 
Examination of the Faculiy held in December 
1961: — 


(Arranged in order ol merit) 

Roll No., Name and Institution. 

4 Gulhane, Vasant Krishnarao, J. B. Ashtanga 
Ayurved Vidyalaya. 

6 Joshi, Krishna Kumar, J. B. Ashtanga Ayurved 
Vidyalaya. 

8 Mishru, Banamali, ). B. Ashtanga Ayurved 
Vidyalaya. 

9 Roy, Dusyanta Kumar, J. B. Ashtanga Ayurved 
Vidyalaya. 

12 Tripathy, Amulya Chandra, J. B. Ashtanga 
Ayurved Vidyalaya. 

7 Khastagir, Biswn Ranjan, Shyamadas Vaidya- 
shastrapith. 

2 Biswas, Cliaitanya Kumar, Nabadwip Ayurved 
M aha vidyalaya. 

5 Gupta, Jagadish Prasad, J. B. Ashtanga Ayurved 
Vidyalaya- 

3 Dcbnath, Purnes Chandra, J. B. Ashtanga 
Ayurved Vidyalaya. 

1 Bhattacharji, Bhabanidas, Nabadwip Ayurved 
Mahavidyalaya. 


J. C. BASU, Registrar. 


1G8 


THE CALCUTTA GtAZETTE, APRIL 19, 1962 


EDUCATION DIRECTORATE 
NOTIFICATIONS 

No. 6477Sc./G. — 12th December 1961. - The 
following student is awarded a scholarship of the 
monthly value of Rs. 10 only on the result -of the 
Alim Examination, 1961. The Scholarship is tenable 
for two years, with effect from 1st June 1961. 

2. The scholar is entitled to free tuition in the 
institution mentioned against his name subject to 
the consent of the Governing Body of the institution 
concerned. He shall not ordinarily accept any 
additional emoluments or privileges equivalent there- 
to without the previous sanction of the Director of 
Public Instruction, West Bengal. 

3. The charge will be met from the provision 
under the head “General— Miscellaneous— Expendi- 
ture from the fund for promotion of education of 
educationally backward classes — Scholarships” in 
the 37- Education Budget. 

Name of the candidate- Md. Yusuf Ali. 

Institution from which passed-' Arabic Depart- 
ment, Calcutta Madrasah. 

Where tenable— Calcutta Madrasah. 

No. 6478S c./G. — 12th December 1961. — The 
following students are awarded scholarships on the 
results of the High Madrasah Examination, 1961. 


[Part jj 



The scholarships are tenable for a period nf 
years, with effect from 1st June 1961. 1 ^ 

2. The scholars arc entitled to free tuition in 
institutions mentioned against their names sur 
to the consent of the Governing Body 0 f *5 
institution concerned. They shall not ordin a 
accept any additional emoluments or privil* 
equivalent thereto without the previous sanction 86 ; 
the Director of Public Instruction, West Bengal ° 

3. The charge will be met from the provi^ 

under the head “General— Miscellaneous -Expend 
ture : ’rom the fund for promotion of educat' 
amongst educationally backward classes -S^hni° n 
ships in the 17 — Education Budget. w dr ‘ 

(I) One scholarship of Rs. 16 a month. 

Name of Candidate. Infltitut ; on from Where tenable 
which passed. 

(1) Md. Nurul Abaar. Pandua Sultania Jangiporo (Viiw 

High Madrasah, Murshidab^’ 
Hooghly. 

(II) One scholarship of Rs. 10 a month. 

(2) Muhammad Abdul Hooghly Madrasah. Mnlda ( ollepp 

Wahhab. Malda. ' 

D. M. SEN, 

Director of Public Instruction. 


GENERAL COUNCIL AND STATE FACULTY OF AYURVEDIC MEDICINE, WEST BENGAL 

NOTIFICATION 
Dated the 16tli March 1962. 

It is hereby notified that the dates of commencement of the next Faculty Exnminatitns 
and for submission of applications with fees have been fixed as follows: — 



J. C. BASU, 
Registrar. 



1C2 


THE CALCUTTA* UAZETTB, APRIL 19, 1962 ID ^ 

lUR T | f 


recognised university /institution, (ii) About three years’ 
field experience in a responsible capacity in conducting 
surveys in Animal Husbandry or Dairying in rural and 
urban areas. 

5. Thirty-nine Professional Assistants in the Indian 
Meteorological Department. Posts temporary but likely to 
become permanent. Fifteen posts for Scheduled Castes and 
seven for Scheduled Tribes candidates reserved if such euit- 
able candidates arc available otherwise all posts treated 
unreserved. Pay:— Rs. H2f>- I /V— 475— K.B.--20 -575. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidates. 
Age:— 25 years and below. Qualifications; Essontial —At 
least second class Master’s or equivalent Honours degree 
or first da is Honours degree in Physics or Applied Physics 
ct Physical Chemistry or Mathematics or Statistics or 
Meteorology or Geophysics or at least second class Bache- 
lor's degree in Mechanical or Electrical Engineering or 
equivalent. 

Not® i— -A candidate with Physical Chemistry or Mathe- 
matics in M.A./M.Sc. should have passed B.A./B.Sr. 
examination with Physics as one of the subjects of 
study. 

6. Deputy Statistical Officer, Statistical Bureau, Manipur 
Administration, Imptial. Post temporary, but likely to 
continue. Pays— Its. 175 — 175 — 200 (conj— 15— 275— E‘.B.~ - 
15 — 350— E.B.— 20- —450 — 25 — 500. Higher initial pay to 
specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age: — 30 
years and below. Qualifications: Essential— (i) Bachelors 
degreo of a recognised university and about five years’ 
experience of statistical work in a Government office or any 
recognised university. Or Master’s or equivalent Honours 
degree in Statistics /Mathematics /Economics with Statistics 
of a recognised university, and about two years’ experience 
of Statistical work in a Government office or any recognised 
institution, (ii) Knowledge of Mauipuri. 

7. Senior Scientific Officer, Grade I, Research and 
Development Organisation, Ministry of Defenoe. Post tem- 
porary, but likely to become permanent. Post reserved for 
Scheduled Castes candidate, if such suitable candidate 
available; otherwise treated as unreserved. Pay: — Rs. 700 
—50 — 1,250. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. Age:— Prclerahly above 35 years. 
Qualifications: Essontiaj — ■Research degree or 1st class 
Master s degreo in Statistics followed by high el»*ss research 
work over a fairly long period. 

8 . Technical Assistant (Production), Publications 

Division, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Post 
temporary, but likely to continue. Post reserved for 
Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidate, if such suitable candi- 
date available; otherwise treated as unreserved. Pay: 

R‘s. .125 — 15--475— K.B. — 20 — 575. Higher initial pay to 

specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age: 35 

years and below. Qualifications: Essential— (i) A licentiate 
in printing technology or a graduate from a recognised 
university, (ii) About three years’ practical experience in 
a press of repute and good acquaintance with production 
of all types of books, magazines, folders, etc., and parti- 
cularly those of high artistic merit. 


11 

Test House 


Throe Senior Physical Assistants in the c flWM 
Jouse, Directorate General of Supplies mm dSNI 

Posts temporary but likelv to become permanent if 111 * 
reserved for Scheduled Tribes candidates if such ^ 
candidates are available failing which treated as ,? Ult4 ^ 
for Scheduled Castes candidates if such suitable 
are available, otherwise treated unreserved Pav. » at <* 
— 15—475 — E.B. — 20 — 575. Higher initial pav iT* 
qualified and experienced candidates. Age:_4o 
below. Qualifications: Essential— (i) M.Sc. or M Srrr ^ 
degree m Uadiophysics and Electronics or dcg rop ‘ 
equivalent in Electrical Communication Engineerin',, i° r 
post; Degree or its equivalent in Textile Tech 
2nd post; and M.Sc. degree in Applied Physics ^ 
Ceramic Technology or equivalent qualification ini u !*, 
post, (ii) Specialised training in testing of radio r M> 1 
and components lor one post; High Polymeric nnJ, 1 V\ vty 
textiles, rubber, plastics, etc., for 2nd 'post !U h 1 ^ 
materials for the 3rd post, (iii) About three veins' N ' n 
eiico in Radio or relevant Technical Testing 
or works of repute. )rat <»nei>j 

12 Two Assistant Technical Advisers in the Dunam* 
of Food, Ministry of Food and Agriculture. 

rary but likely to continue. Pay: — Rs. 400 — im ’ 
^--4)7(1— E.B.- 215— 950. Higher initial 

specially qualified and experienced candidates Am. ? 
years and below. Qualifications: Essontial— in \i .'ff 

degico in Organic Chemistry, Food Technology , )r 
( hemistry or equivalent, (ii) About two years’ reseiml , 
practical experience in (i) food processing or food 

Sgutf /or (,i) the Lld ot nutr ' iL 

13. One Junior SoientiAe OfAoer for Armed r„.„. 
Medical Service Depot, Poona, Ministry of D^t. Vl 

temporary but likely to become permanent. Pay Tic itv 
-_4» SIX)— 50— 050. Higher initial pay to sponaih 
lie, I and experienced candidate. Ago:— Prclciai.lv dl™ 1 
year,. QuaiiAoations, Essential— (i) 

Engineering or Electronics or equ.vulc.it (or) T 
second class Master’s degree in Physics with Electronic j 
special subjects or equivalent qualdication of re,™, 2 
Oimersity. ( 11 ) Aptitude for research and development 


ENGINEERING SERVICES (ELECTRONICS) 
EXAMINATION 

THE UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION ,, 
a. combined competitive examination at All, dial, ml 
lore Bhopal, Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi, Hyderabad,') 
Shillong and Trivandrum commcnciui' on t’SUi \ m . , , - 
lor recruitment of: — 

(i) Deputy Engiiioer-in-Cha rge (Hass T) and 'Minin 

Assistant, (Class 11- Non-Gsizoti od) in tin. (M 
seas Communications Service, Mimstt\ oi Tun 
port and Communications, ‘ 

(ii) Engineer (Class f) in the Wireless, IM.inmiig J 
Co-ordination Branch and Monitoring Or^anM^I 
Ministry ol Transport and Communications, 


ill half 
Hard 
l.idi J 
! I, Hi 


9. One Chief Psychologist, Research and Deveiopmen 
Organisation, Ministry of Defence. Post temporary, bui 
likely to be retained on immanent basis. Post reserved foi 
Scheduled Tribes candidate; if no such suitable candidal, 

available, will bo treated as unreserved. Pay: Rr. 1,300— 

? cale . likfi| y to 1,0 revised to Rs. l’,000_ 
UJU— l.aOO). Higher initial pay t„ specially qualified »nc 
experienced candidate. Ago i- Preferably below 50 years 
Qualifications: Essential (|) Dec.toruto in Psychology fron 
a, recognised University or equivalent qualification.' (ii) 
Research experience of high order over fairly long perio, 
including about five years’ experience of planning am 
guiding research in the field oi psychology. 

J"; 0n ® Profwor In Mechanical Engineering, College of 
Military Engineering, Klrkee, Ministry of Defence. Post 
temporary but likely to continue, for an indefinite period, 
lost reserved for Scheduled Castes candidate; if no such 
suitable candidate available, it will be treated as unreserved. 
Pay i-r? S * 1 *4(K). 1 1 iglier initial pay to specially 

qualified and experienced candidate. Age*:— Preferablv 
below ,)0 years. Qualifications: Essential— (i) At least 
second class degree m Mechanical Engineering of a rococ- 
msed University, or equivalent, (ii) About ten ycW 
practical experience as Mechanical Engineer, including 
teaching experience. * 


(iii) Assistant Technical Officer (Class III in ti 
Department of Civij Aviation, Almistn ot TrW 
port and Communications, 

(iv) Senior Scientific Officer (Clas- I) <(Jr, ■•<!<* Ih 4 
Junior Scientific Officer (Class H) m the MmMf 
of Defence, and 

(v) Assistant Engineer ((’lass II -Non (iozet ten < i 
the All Tndia Radio, Mmistiy ot I n I t»i mat i«>n 
Broadcasting. 

Age limits on 1st August 1962: 20 -25 v-ais (p 
age-limit relaxable in favour of Sehedulcfl histi" ^ 
duhxl I rihes, residents of the former Krcin h Setting 
uhich have now become part of India, cnmhdiito tmmi 
Andaman and Nicobar Islands, repat nates lioni (' TJ 
who are Indian Citizens and certain categories 
mental candidates. Qualifications: A degree in Hh- 111 ' 
mg or a pass in Sections A and B ot A.M.I.K 
equivalent. Master’s or equivalent Honours tew**. 
Wireless Communication, Electronics, Radio lMivsnr. WJ. 
Engineering or allicnl subjects, or a pass m tin* ( ,rBl 1 
Membership Examination of the Institution of IVMvOT 
meation Engineers (India), or a pass in the 
Membership Examination ot the British IndnuW 
Radio Engineers, London, held after Novcmki, H , *'M 



1>akt MI 


jL 


f u|p Graduate Membership Examination of the 
^^chlnstitution of Radio Engineers, London, hold prior 
^November 1959 is also acceptable subject to certain 
t° ,+; ons . Full particulars and application forms obtain- 
from* Secretary, Union Public Service Commission, 
f^Mnur House, D.H.Q. P.O., New Delhi-11, by remitting 
n 100 by money order or on cash payment at the 
” 9 ' tor Candidates must clearly state on money order 
c0U Son» “Engineering Services (Electronics) Examination, 
j^iauit 1962 " and also give their names and lull |»ostal 
tdresses in blOOk letters. Postal Orders or cheques or 
rienev notes will not be accepted in lieu ol 
1,ir ' orders. Completed applications must, loaeh tin* 
r'inri Public Scivice (Commission by 4U» Juno 19G2 ( I St h 
j 1 |(KJ2 in the case of candidates residing abroad). 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 

leneral instructions to candidates applying in response to 
advertisements Issued by the Commission for recruit* 
ment to posts of “Selection". 

(t) instructions regarding submission of application. - 

k indications are to be made on the proscribed t</rm which 
n j| available from the office ot the Public Service i?om- 
niasion, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor). 
Uipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a large self- 
iddressed envelope with stamps sufficient to cover the 
>ostage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 
opies of the prescribed form may apply on any similar 
yued (not handwritten) form showing exactly the word- 
ug and spacing of the sample form published in the 
Calcutta Gazette" of the 1st September 1955, provided 
he blanks are filled ud in the candidates’ own handwriting. 

(2) Particulars and certificates required. — Candidates 

diould furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character. 


The Comtnisaion may remit fee in case of genuinel 
indigent and bona fide displaced person from Pakistan. 

An indigent displaced person shall, in the first instance, 
pay the application feo prescribed for a gazetted post 
advertised by the Commission but if he /she is selected for 
and appears at the interview, tho fee paid by him/her will 
be refunded afterwards. 

Note. — “ (i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
I hat he is bona iide displaced person from Pakistan, e.g , 
let ogee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or n Member of Pat Lament or State Legislature, m 
original. 

(li ) A member of the Scheduled Gaato or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his appli- 
cation a certificate ui original irom a gazetted officer or a 
Member ol Parliament or State Legislature belonging to 
tlie Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 

(m) A displaced person seeking remission ol the applica 
turn foe must furnish besides the evidence required under 
Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or i* Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that, be is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee." 

(4) Add rats. — Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 

(5) Canvassing.— Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons oi 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
lor appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
Itorsons interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will be disregarded. 

(G) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation), in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


The Commission accepts only the age of a candidate as 
worded in the Matriculation or the Secondary School 
Final / Leaving Certificate. In the case ol a female candi- 
date whose age is not recorded in the Matriculation or 
School Final Certificate, any of the following evidence ot 
ige is accepted by tho Commission: — 

1. A certificate from the Headmistress of the school 

which she last attended, showing her exact age as 
recorded in the school register. 

2. An affidavit regarding her age sworn by her father 

or mother or some other person in a position to 
know by having been present or heard ot her birth 
at the time of occurrence. 

Jl. A certificate regarding her age, from a Member of 
the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who must 
have known the candidate and her family, indicat 
ing clearly tho evidence on the basis of which he/ 
she satisfied himself /herself on the point. 


Candidates serving under Government or a local or 
Statutory Body should submit an advnnce copy in the pres- 
cribed form. The application fee should in such cases be 
attached to the advance copy and not to tho original. The 
candidature of such applicants may not however be con- 
sidered if the original applications do not reach the Com- 
mission’s office within a fortnight from tho closing date. 
Unless applications in original or advance copies with 
application foes arc received within the closing date, late 
applications may be rejected. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

All pore, the 27th January 196i. 


Advertisement No. 20 


(5) Fee.- Candida tee must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Its. 5 in the form of a receipted chalan 
from a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of india 
under tho head “XXXV l— Miscellaneous — Receipts of Hit 
Public* Service Commission, West Bengal". Money order*, 

' hequog, etc., in lieu of treasury challans are not accepted 
1'oKtal order, howover, may be accepted lrom candidates. 
Du\v should be crossed and made payable to “The Score 
Jar .\ Public Service Commission, West Bengal". No nppli 
tttum will be considered unless accompanied with the 
r^imsite application fee. 

Candidates abroad may deposit their application fees 
w, th the High Commissioner of India or the Embassy, as 
the case may be, and obtain receipts for the same, which 
have to be attached to their applications to be sub- 
J nitte<l to the Commission. 

[ an( hdntes in Government service should make ‘Mire 
oro depositing fee that their applications will bo forward - 
J by their superior officers. In no case will the fee paid 
*tn the application be refunded. 


A IMPLICATIONS arc* invited lrom Indian citizens for the 
billowing posts: — 

<u) One Assistant Professor of Bio-Chemistry, Bengal 
Votermary College, in the West Bengal Veterinary Service. 

Post permanent. Pays Its. :m :tt) 900 (K.B. after Hth 
and lGtli stages) per month plus house rent allowance. 
Higher initial pay c*i age basis up !o I la* age of M5 years 
may he* granted to a Candida I e specially qualified and 
o\j»enoncod. 

Qualifications: Essential— (i) A second class Mnster’s 
degree* in Bio-Chemistry or Physical Chemistry or Organic 
Chemist iv or Applied ('homed ry ( i i > Two years’ research 
experience in Bio-Chemistry , (iii) One year's teaching 
experience in a Veterinary or Medical or Science College. 
Desirable — (i) Physiology one ol tho subjects in flu* B.Sc. 
course; (ii) Kth/w ledge, of Bengali — written and spoken. 
Age: — Between 25 and J5 years on the .‘list December 1902, 
relnvahlo for a candidate possessing exceptionally high 
qualifications and also lor a person holding substanti\e 
appointment under the Central or a- State Government. 



164 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 19, 1962 


[Eart n 


(b) One Assistant Professor of Applied Art, Govern- 
ment College of Art and Craft, Caloutta, In the West Bengal 
Educational 8ervioe (Men's Branch). Post temporary. 

Women unsuitable. Pays — Rfs. 325 — 30-—475 — 35 — 1,000 per 
month plus house rent allowance as admissible under the 
rules. Higher initial pay up to Rs. 475 may be allowed 
on the basis of qualifications and experience. 

Qualifications: Essential — (i) A diploma or a degree of 

recognised School of Art; (ii) Three years’ experience »s 
a practising artist having distinction in the field of Com- 
mercial Art and Industrial Art; (iii) Ability to express in 
Bengali. Desirable — Experience ot teaching in the field ol 
Commercial Art. Age: — Not more than 35 years on the 
1st May 1902, relaxable in the case o| candidates possess- 
ing exceptionally high quali (nations and ior persons hold- 
ing substantive appointment in the Education Department , 
West Bengal. 

(e) Fifteen Lecturers in Chemistry in the West Bengal 
Junior Educational Service (Men's Branch). Posts tempo- 
rary, Women unsuitable. Pay: — Its. 275— 15— 350 — 2() — 
050 per month plus house rent allowance as admissible 
under tin* rules. Higher initial pay up to Rs. 350 may be 
granted on the basis of qualifications and experience. 

Qualifications: Essential — A first class Master’s degree, 
Or, A second class Master's degree with first class Honours 
in the Bachelor's degree, Or, A Dwtorate degree with a 
first class Honours or second class Master’s degree, of an 
Indian university, in Chemistry; 

Or, 

Equivalent foreign qualifications; 

Or, 

If a* candidate has otherwise a good academic record, a 
second class Master’s degree with second class Honours in 
tlie Bachelor’s degree, in Chemistry, plus five years’ teach- 
ing experience in a recognised college as a wholotimo 
teacher in the subject. The period of teaching experience 
may be relaxed at the dieoretlon of the Commission. 

Desirable — Good power of expression in Bengali — spoken 
jmuI written. Age: — Not more than .35 years on the 1st 
May 1962, relaxable in the case of specially qualified candi- 
dates and for persons holding substantive appointment in 
the Education Department, West Bengal. 

Age concession 

The upper age limit for all the posts is relaxable by five 
years for Scheduled Castes/ Tribes and up to 45 years for 
displaced persons from Pakistan. 

A candidate who before the 15th August 1947, was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account ol 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall he entitled to a concession in respect 
of the upuer age limit. The concession granted will be 
equal to tin* exact period ol detention, imprisonment, 
internment or externment. suffered up to a maximum of 
lour years. 

Apply to Secretary w r ith a Treasury Chalan of Rs. 5 
under head ‘‘XXXVI— Miscellaneous— Receipts of Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal” or a Crossed Postal 
Order of Ks. 5 payahle to “Secretary, Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal”. Overseas candidates may deposit 
their application fees with the High Commission of India 
or the Indian Embassy, ivs the case may he. Particulars 
and prescribed application forms obtainable from the office 
of the Commission, Anderson House (ground floor), Alipore, 
Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a self-addressed 
envelope (size l(Px6") with postage* stamp of 35 nP. and 
the name of the post superscribed on the envelope. Those 
who intend to take application forms and/or submit appli- 
cations personally should do so between 10-15 n.m. and 
3-00 p.m. on full working davs and lie tween 10-15 a. in. and 
12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 

Closing date— The 4th May 1962. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public* Service Commission, 
West Bengal. 


HIGH COURT, APPELLATE BIDE, CALCUTTA. 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 3427A., dated Calcutta, the 6th April 1962 

APPLICATIONS are invited from amongst the members f 
the Bar who have put in at least three years' continued 
practice and are now in active practice, for selection to 4 i 
West Bengal Civil Service (Judicial) by the High Court* 
Calcutta. Tho number of vacancies to be filled m> h 
selection is nine. * v 

2. The attention of the intending candidates is drawi 
to the rules regarding recruitment to the West Bengal Civ I 
Service (Judicial), published with the Government of VVest 
Bengal, Judicial Department notification No. 1713-J. 

the 31st March 1951, at pages 782-783, Part, l’of it 
“Calcutta Gazette”, dated the 12th April 1951, as 
sequently amended by the Government of West Bengal 
Law (Judicial) Department notifications No. 3074-J da+J 
the 1st May 1959, and No. 10587-J / J4J-29/59, dated iC 
17th December 1959, published at pages 1813-1814, Part I 
of the “Calcutta Gazette”, dated the 14th May 1959, un .i 
at pages 4434-4435, Part 1 of the said Gazette, dated t| )e 
24th December 1959, respectively. For the required quuh. 
ficatians candidates are referred to the amendments of the 
rules as published in the “Calcutta Gazette”, dated th* 
11th May 1959, mentioned above. 

3. Applications for selection must reach the under- 
signed not later than the 26th May 1962, in the form 
prescribed for the purpose copies whereof may be had free 
»i cost from the office of the undersigned on application 
which must bo accompanied by an attested copy of the 
Matriculation Examination Pass Certificate or its equivalent. 

4. Only those candidates whose age is not loss than 27 
years and not more than 32 years on the 1st January 1902 
will he supplied with forms of application. 

5. Endeavour, in any form, to enlist support for his 
candidature will render a candidate ineligible lor selection 
and no candidate will lie interviewed by the undersigned 
prior to his being called upon, if necessary. Interviews 
will not be granted, also, by the undersigned to the parents, 
guardians or well-wishers ol prospective candidates. 

6. Those who have already applied in pursuance of the 
( ourt’s notification No. 7080A., dated the 28th Novenihei 
1961, need not apply again. 

R. N. DUTT, Registrar 


ORDER OF ADJUDICATION 


f Section 27 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, Y ol 1920, 1 

IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUBORDINATE JUDGE 
AT ALIPORE 

Insolvency Application No. 41 of 1961 

PURSUANT to a petition, dated 2nd September 1 Mi- 
ll led by Shri Gobinda Kumar Biswas ol Mitrapara, ]>oliee- 
stalion Naihat.i, debtor ami on the application <>t tie 1 
debtor himself and on reading the application of the debtor 
and hearing his lawyer it is ordered that the dehtoi h* 
ami the said debtor is hereby adjudged insolvent. 

It. is further ordered that the debtor do apply f» r h,s 
discharge after 31st December 1962. 

Dated this 9th day of Apiil 1902. 

N. G. CHAUDHTTRI, SuV.TudfS' 
(349—1) 


Alipore, the 4th April 1962. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 19, 1962 


165 


i,rt 


II] 



DISTRICT NADIA 


, uf 0 0UBT OF THE DISTRICT AND SESSIONS 
' UOGE NAINA AT KRISHNAOAR, ARBITRATOR 
UNDER ACT XXX OF ISM 

Arbitration Caao No. S of 19B1 


son of Upendra Ghosh, self and guardian mother 
Subodh Bala Pal of Mathurapur, Kumargachi, die- 
triot Hooghlv, 44. Kalikrithna Pal, 45. Nemai Krishna 
Pal, 46. Sudhir Krishna Pal. son of Surendra Nath 
Pal, 55 A Middle Road, En tally*. Calcutta, 47. Sasthi 
Bagdi, son of Protap Bagdi, Modhusudanpur, P.O. 
Nasra, 48. Nilmoni Rajbanshi, son of Nani Rajbanahi, 
49. Bacharam Ghosh, son of DaBarath Ghosh, village 
Putia, Taberia, 24-Parganaa, 


,i Nirmalabala Pal, Satyasib Pal, Basanta Kumar 

' r "".° 1 Subal Chandra Lane, Calcutta, Claimants, 

(Ihosc, *■ 

versus 

ThP State of West Bengal, Opposite Party. 

,i matter of application for the determination of 
l„ the I,!a, f compensation payable for the acquisition of 
11 a!11 |'.', l , r rai survey plot Nos. 101, 699, 729, 7.17 , 804, 
w Z? M 898 901, 900, 910 937, 947, 980, 987 

*'■ ? ?,:,-, i0‘)41041-i046, 1049, 1051, 1052-1062, 1069/ 
l*W. 070 1073 1075, 1081 1082, 1084, 1086. 1088-1091, 
i°iw) lioi 1104-1106, 1108, 1109 1111, 1U4, 

*6. ]^? 9 ’ 1]7 q ii87 1194, 1195, 1203, 1205, 1287, 1289, 
n«. },'?!’ Vw 1445’. 1446. 1541, 1553, 1607, 1609, 

' ] cadastral survey plot Nos. 97 , 709 825 , 862, 
001 1025 1050 1069, 1087, 1166. 1103, 1110, 1125, 
Hr 1489 1555, 1558, 1578, 1630, 1635, 1720, 1762, 1763 
24 ?' tcrniediarv rights and interests under tousa Nos. 
iml , V19 362 636, 638 of mouza Muratipur, 

:U - i Vnn '^ist Nos 134, l:is, 136, 139, 362 , 636, 638 . of 
ifisibction list Jr jnris(lk . Uon list No 51, police-Htation 

Sldslf district Nadia, alleged to have belonged to abovo- 
n h ro«r dahnant on the dates of acquisition and requisition . 

1 Mntimlranat.il Banerjoc, son of Jitendranatli Banor- 
2 Sarajini Banerjcc, wile ol Mrityunjoy Banerjw, 
Fur self and guardian lnotber of minor sons Debipnda 
Hnneriee. Sibapada Banerjoc . Snktipada Banerjee, 
„ ms (/ Mrityunjoy Banerjcc ol Palpa tn, iioliee-statioii 
< hakdah district Nadia. 3. Amtabala Debt for self 
and mother of Kalidas Bmierp-e of Pnlpara. police- 
stntion ('hakdah, district Nndia, 4. Sailcndranatli 
( liattorioe, 5. Upendranatli Chaltcrjoc, son of larak- 
)m t|i ( 'liat ler joe of Muratipur. police-station (hakdah. 
district. Nadia, 6. Saiclinml Gharunu, son ol Kaclu- 
inudilin (Sliarnini of Clinndinnri, police-station 

( hakdah. district Nadia. 7. Kissmntl. Bancrjco son 
(,f Siirendranath Bnnorjco, 8 IJinasashi Dehya, wife 
of Siirendrnnnth Bmurico of Sivnkhali, 9. Hajari 
Mnnda.1 son or Kader Moiulal, Cliandmari, 10. Siinnat 
Kiln, wife of Mokwil Biswas, self and guardian of 
sons and daughters Monnur Biswas. Jahora. Bjhi or 
Chaudnmri, police-stat ion Chakdah, 11. Moti Biswas, 
son of Soirnm Biswas of Birpiura, police-station 

(hakdah, 12. Kudrat Ali Mondal, son of Arpin 
Mnndal 13. Rahhani Mondal, 14. Bali a mat Mondal, 
son of Kailash Mondal, llarndham, Ranaghat. 15. 
Oonrchandra Ghosh, son of Sristidliar Ghosh, Tiara- 
clham, police- station Ranaghat. 16. Profuua Kumar 
Ranorjee, son of Harimohftn Banerjee of Miratipur, 
17 Monindra Nath Ghosh, son of Arohika C haran 
Ghosh of Sankarpur, Chakdah, 18. Mohamava Debi, 
wife of Khitish Chandra Ohatterjee, 19. Radharaman 
rhattorjee, son of Khitish Chandra (’’hatter jee, 93 
Soutli Sithi Road, Pum Bum, 20. Mrityunjoy 
Rhattacharjee, eon of Bidhubhusan Bhattaoharjee, 
21 Sasthibhusan Sil, 22. Chandra Kumar Sil, 28. 
Probhat Kumar Sil. 24. Sitanath Sil, 25. Sudhir 
Ghandra Sil, son of Rakhal Sil, P.O. Somrata, 
Hooghly, 26. Sanat Kumar Chatter jee, 27. Monindra- 
kumar Cbatterjee, 28. Sukumar Chatterjee, 29. 
Probhat Kmpar Chatter jee, son of Monilal Cbatterjee, 
30. Sailendranatli Rov, Prohlad Kumar Pot, sons oi 
Rankim CK. Roy, 21 Kaliprosnd Banerjee Lane, 
Howrah, 81. Sambhn Chandra* Roy, son of Jitendra 
Kumar Roy, 32. Prohlad Kumar Roy, son of 
Suren dr a Kumar Roy, 88. Jogamaya T)chi, wife of 
Krishna Chandra Roy, Serampore, 84. Subarna 
Kuma*ri Dehi, wife of Satyapati Mukherjee, Hajari- 
hagh, 35. Bireswar Roy Banerjee, son of Hemchandra 
Rov Banerjee, 86. Hironmoyae T)ehi, .87. Labonyabala 
Gobi, wife <yf Hem Chandra Roy Banerjee, 88. R’enu- 
Pada Hajra*, 89. Satyendranath Sur, 40. Nanigopal 
hanguli, 41. Kaliprosanna Nandi, Trustees to the 
V tate . of Sarawati Trust Estate, Ghoshpara, 42. 
a Ghosh, son of Banawari, 43. Bono- 

Ghosh, Churemoni Ghosh, minors Gbpal Gbosb, 


TAKE notice that the above case in which I have been 
appointed Arbitrator for the determination of the amount 
of compensation payable for the acquisition on the proper- 
ties mentioned above as per notification No. 12152, dated 
Calcutta, 29th July 1960, Government of West Bengal, 
Land and Land Revenue Department, Requisition Branch, 
has been set down on the 7th May 1962 at 10-30 a.in. for 
appearance and for filing statement as to what is the fair 
amount of compensation for the property involved in this 
case or objection if any, to the claim and in default of 
your appearance either in person or by representative on 
the said date, the case will be proceeded with in your 
absence. 

Given under my hand and the seal of the Court this the 
4th day of April 1962. 

K. J. SEN GUPTA, 

District «»nd Sessions Judge, Nadia, 
Arbitrator under Act XXX of 1962, 

(.823—2) 


DISTRICT NADIA 

IN THE COURT OF DISTRICT AND 8E88ION8 
JUDGE, NADIA, AT KRI8HN AGAR, ARBITRATOR 
UNDER ACT XXX OF 1952 

Arbitration case No. 6 of 1961 

Nanibala Pal and others, Claimants 
versus 

The Stale 4 of West Bengal, Opposite Party 

IN the mailer of application for the determination of the 
amount of compensation payable for the acquisition of the 
cadastral surve\ plot Nos. 43, 10, 52, 55, 57, 59, 61, 62, 
73, 272, 276, % 277, 308, 369, 370, 371, 373, 389, 390, 
51, 63, 01, 278 and parts of cadastral survey plots 45, 56, 
70, 72 of Mouza Dharinabati, jurisdiction list No. 64, 
police-station Chakda, district Nadia, alleged to have 
belonged to abovenamed claimant on the dates of acquisi- 
t ion and requisition : 

1. Trustees to the estate of Kurnswnti Trust estate of 

Ghoshpara Kachan, police-station Chakdah, dis- 
trict Nadia, 

2. Kaliknshna Pal, Nimai Krishna PaJ, Sudhir Krishna 

Pal, sons of Surondranath Pal of 55A Middle Road, 
Calcut ta. 

3. Raghunandan Boalia, Jadunandan Boalia, sons of 

J i ten Boalia of Kaniipiir, police-station Santipur, 
district Nadia. 

TAKE notice that the above case in which 1 have been 
appointed Arbitrator for the determination of the amount 
of compensation payable for the acquisition on the pro- 
perties mentioned above as per notification No. 14104, 
dated Calcutta, 7th September 19(30, Government of West 
Bengal, Land and Land Revenue Department, Requisition 
Branch, has been set- down on the 7th May 1962 at 
10-30 a. in. for appearance and for filing statement as uo 
what is the fail’ amount, ol compensation for the property 
invoked in this case or objection, if any, to the claim and 
in default, of your appearance either in person or by 
representative on the said oate the case will he proceeded 
with in your absence. 

Given under my hand and the soul of the Court this the 
4th day of April 1962. 

K. J. SEN GTJPTA, 

District and Sessions Judge, Nadia, 
Arbitrator under Act XXX of 1952. 

( 324 ’ 4 ’$) 



166 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 19,1962 


[Part 


DISTRICT NADIA 

IN THE COURT OF DISTRICT AND 8E8SION8 JUDGE, 
NADIA, AT KRI8HNA0AR, ARBITRATOR UNDER 
ACT XXX OF 1958 

Arbitration Caao No. 7 of 1991 

NirroaJabala Pal and others— Claimant* 
versus 

The State of West Bengal— Opposite Party 

In the matter of application for the determination of the 
amount of compensation payable for the 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 107, 108, 14 ?> 14 «> 1 ’ 

151-153, 154, 155, 150, 157, lo», 100, 16.V105, 

229*, 

245, 

203, 

279, 


167, 

220 , 

237, 

250, 

274, 

289, 

322, 

345, 

401 


108, 

221 , 

239, 

257, 

275, 

291, 

325, 

340, 

403, 


174, 

220 , 

240, 

259, 

270, 


170, 

227, 

242, 

260, 

277, 


179, 

228, 

244, 

202 , 

278, 


208, 

230, 

247, 

207, 

283, 


210 , 

231, 

249, 

266, 

284, 

312, 


211 , 

232, 

252, 

268, 

285, 

315, 


160, 

219, 

234, 

255, 

272, 

287, 

320, 

344, 

399, 


218, 

233, 

254, 

270, 

280 

29;i-:t00, ' 305-306, '311, 312, 315, 316, 

;i;u 337, 338, 340, 342, 

350.' 353, ’ 360, 363, 364, 391, 396, 398, 

$ 407 409, 410, 404, 400, 401, 411 of mouza 

Dukshin ChoshpiMa, jurisdiction list fio. 63 of police-station 
ri nl .la . district Nadia, alleged to have belonged to 
i.!‘t^ed daimauts ’on the dates of acqu.s.tion and 
requisition. 

Names of the Interested parties: 40. Shrnnati Umaraiii 
Mukhcrioe wile of llilihuti Bhusan Mukjierjec, 
11. Saiitiiiu/y Mukherjee, son of lltbkuti Bhusan 
Mukhorjoo of Guptipara, Hooghly, 43. hital Chandra 
Ghosh, 45. Laksmikanto Oh use, soil of vSat J rac, ^^ i 11 
Oliose of Swapara Lane, P.O. Bhadroswar, 46. Kali- 
krishna Pal, 47. Nimaikrishna Pol, 48. Sudhirknshna 
Pal son of Kuromiranafh 1 al Debmohunta of *>>A 
Middle Road, En tally, Calcutta, 49. Trustees to the 
(‘state ot Kwaraswati Trust Estate of Gkc/shpara, 
58. Katvendranath Ganguli, 59. 1 romathanath 

Ganguli, 60. Saeliindranath Ganguli ol Bijpur, 
district 21-Parganas, 51. Krishnakali Itenov 
lee 52 Durgadas, son of Nabin Chandra 

Baneriee Suremlranath Banerjee, son of 

KiMuuidiiirnn Bnnorjee of Ghoshpara, 61 Ramaehit 
Jilii'ilii of Chnkdah, 63. Khokaram Mondal, son °t 
Ramoswar Momlal, Ranuband, Nawpara Nadia, 
04 Kathubala Dasi, wife of G irish Bagdi of Lfrlpur, 
Clunkdah, 65. Tulsi Maji, sirn of Uday Majhi, 

36. Prafulla Kumar Neogi, 30A Kiranbala Dasi, 

37. Topshi Majhi, son of Uday Majhi, 37 A. 

Kan to Das, son of Brojonath Das of Daksbm Ghosh- 
pan>, <50. Hajari Lai Das, son of Banowari Das of 
Roydanga, Madanpur, police-station Chakdah, 
(>7. Haridas Bhattacharjee, son of Nalini Bbattaeher- 
ieo of Hatisala, 08. Nikunjabehari Mukherjee, 69. 
Biinal Bhusan Mukherjee of Halisahar, Barendra 
Gate, 70. Haridas Basil and others, 71. Kameruddin 
Munslii and others, 72. Takaruddin a*nd others, 73. 
Jnanendra Ghosh and others, 74. Krishnakali Baner- 
jee, eon of Nalini Chandra BanerjCe of Muratipur, 75. 
Jugalkumar Do, son of ‘Rfaikumar De of Andulberia, 
P.O Jibannagar, 70. G'opikanta Roy, son of Nilkamal 
Roy of 0 Dearson Lane, Calcutta, 77. Jogindranath 
De, son of Gopalna-th De of Jessore Town, 78. Lala 
Satish Chandra Singha, son of Rameswar Singha of 
8 Ramkanto Mitra Lane, Calcutta. 

TAKE notice that the above case in which I have been 
appointed Arbitrator for the determination of the amount 
of compensation payable for the acquisition on the proper- 
ties mentioned above as per notification No. 15198. dated 
Calcutta, 11th October 1960, Government of West Bengal, 
Land and Land Revenue Department, Requisition Branch, 
has been set down on the 7th May 1962, at 10-30 a.m. for 
appearance and for filing statement as to wh*t is the fair 
amount of compensation for the property involved in this 
case of objection, if any, to the claim and in default of your 
appearance either in person or bv representative on the 
sand date the case will be proceeded with in your absence. 

Given under my hand and the seal of the Court this the 
4th day of April 1962. 

K. J. SEN GUPTA, 

District and Sessions J udge , Nadia, 
Arbitrator under Act XXX of 1952. 

. . . (324A — 2) 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
(IN INSOLVENCY) 

Notloe of Adjudication Order 

NO. 8 OF 1962. 

Re.: Mrs. Colleen Una Scott, residing at No. 8 W ..11 , 
2nd Lane in tho town of Calcutta, Ex parte* < 
debtor in person. 1 * 

ON the 23rd day of March 1962, an order was nia j 
the High Court at Calcutta in its Insolvency J Un ! e , 
adjudging the abovenamed as an Insolvent. ut 

NOTE — All debts due to the estate should be paid to nie 

Dated this 3rd day of April 1962. 

M. M. CHAKRABAKTY 

Official Assignee of Calcutta, 
0 Council House Street, Calcutt 


SHRI ANIL KUMAR DAS CHAUDHURI, LL.B, intei 
to be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Cot 

(261- 


SHR1 KIRANMAY GHOSH, LL.B., intends to be enro 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(262- 


RATHINDRA KUMAR SARKAR, LL.B., intends to 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(267- 


KESHARI CHAND MOHTA, LL.B., intends to be enr 
ed as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(268- 


SHRIMATI 8ADHANA SARKAR, LL.B., intend* to 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 269 - 


MONORANJAN HARI GHOSH, LL.B., intend* to 
enrolled a* an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(270- 


AJIT KUMAR MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B.. 
enrolled a* an Advocate of the Calcutta High 

( 871 - 



Part W 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 19, 1962 


167 


tvnTl PROKASH SADHUKHAN, M.A., L3 
^, X be enrolled as an' Advocate of the Calcutta 


LL.B., intends 
High Court. 


(273 — 4) 


31 TAR AM AGRAWALA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(225-4) 


-T * i. j * u SITRENDRA SINGH MALIK, LL.B., intends to be 

tfJKUMAR BISWAS, LLJ3., intends to be enrolled as an enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 
A^rnrste of the Calcutta High Court. 

Ad '° C (273—4) (296 — 4) 


PYARI SHANKAR BEHANI, LL.B., intends to be enroll- 
ed as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. ^ 


SA1LEN SEN, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(297-4) 


MD ALLA BUKHSH, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


SHRi FUABIR KUMAR SARANGI, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court at Calcutta. 

(305-4) 


MR. MD. ABDUL HAKIM intends te be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

PEBABRATA MAITRA, LL.B. ? intends to be enrolled as (306 — 4) 

an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(276—4) 


— PKANAB KUMAR GANGOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends to 

be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(507—4) 

SI 'NIL KUMAR BISWAS, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
ah an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(281-4) 

PANDURANG SHEORAM BAGATHEY, LL.B., intends 
to be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

~ (305—4) 


SANT! RAKJAN CHAKRABARTI, M.Com., LL.B., 

intends to be enrolled m an Adveoete, Cal. High Court. 

(283 — 41 JOGRNDRA KUMAR BHA8IN, LL.B., intends to b« 

enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(800— i) 


i®? 1 HIMANGSHU MOHAN BANERJEE, B.L., imtenda 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(296—4) 


SHRI DURGA DAS KUNDU, LL.B., intend* to bo 
enrolled as an Advocate in the High Court at Caloutta. 

(315—4) 


«»wlld B « ATIN Pl lAM0HAN RAT > LL B • klt ®" 4 

a. an Advocate ef Caloutta High Oowt. 


ABAN1 MOHAN RAl CHAUDHURT, LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of the Caloutta High Court. 


(304—4) 


(819 — 4) 


<58 


THE CALCUTTA QAZETTK, APRIL 19, 1962 


l Part n 


, . . SHYAMA CJtARAN GARGOPADHYAY, LL.B., 

UM DAB OHATTERJEE LL.B. intend, to be enrolled to bo enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Cou n . 

,s an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 2Q __ 4) 


( 342 - 


•WTM JITENDttA CHANDRA REN, intend, to be 
Sed a. an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(321—4) 


G WES CHANDRA BASIL LL.B., intends to be t-nioll, a 
— . A.i.-ovate of the Calcutta High Court, 

( 353 — 1 ; 


as an 


KALI KUM ARCHAKRABA^ to be 

enrolled as an Advocate of the Laicima m R u 

(534—4) 


cnvir Kl'MAH SEN, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate ot the Oalcuttfi High Court. 

(M-Ai 


ARYYA KUM AH HARK AR, LL.B. ^intend, to he enrolled 


Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(336—4) 


l'RAYAG DAR DAGA, LL.B.. intend. to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. (33(>_-4) 


S ', IU L N ,’ r . R d vocate^ ^in ’ ttfe ^ifi ^iWt'^I^Cklcutta!* 


ndmitted as an 


(337—4) 


IIKWANATH BANDYOPADHYAY, M.Cotn., LUi., 
intends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High 


riii yam SPNDAH PATODIA, LL.B., intends to l> 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Conn. 

( 350—1 


SlTAK \M SH.Ul, LL B.. intends to be eniolled as a 
Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. , 


riUHAS CHANDRA HASH, LL.B intends to be enrullc 
as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. ^ . 


(388 — 4) 




< 359 - 


SAMARENDRA NATH BAKU, B.L., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High ou . ^339 4) 


RANTISF.KllAR Ml KHOPApmAY LL B Coun 

be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta b 

( 360 - 


SHYAM SDNDAH DHANUKA intends to he enrolled a. an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. (340. — 4) 


HARINARAYAN PANDEY. LL.B. intemu to be enro 

as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. (36 i_ 


RHY Aid SUN»AR A8ARWAL intend, to be enrolled a. an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


/«J1 A\ 


SHRl RABINDRA NATH GHOSH. R £ Coiiit 
enrolled as an Advocate oj the Calcutta H S ^ 


Part Ml 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 19, 1962 


169 


l , ril'>t’ ANT TO SKCTION 


NOTICK 


|N the matter of the companies ACT, 10S6 

AND 


MAYFAIR ESTATES PRIVATE LIMITED 
m (IN LIQUIDATION) 


Nmriul Resolution passed on Tuesday, the 10th day 
I’A '* j 1 ^Xi2. the Members ol the abovenamed Gmnpanx 
" V *7 to voluntarily wind-up the Company and Mi. K. M. 

, M | 1 end 2. Old Court House Corner. Calcutta-! 
,h) t Appointed Liquidator on a fixed remuneration ol 
• / Min mil.' • 

N II ELIAS Direct oi 


, li( pjth dav ol April 1962 


(304 l> 


COM PAN IKS ACT, 1950 

MEMBERS’ VOLUNTARY WINDING-UP 

Notice ol appointment of Liquidator pursuant to 
Section 516 

ui the Company Mayiair Estates Private Ltd 
iln Liquidation!, 

\aiiuc of business Holding; Land and Buildings. 

o| Registered OfHee : 1 and 2 Old Court Hous- 

Corner Caleutta-l. 

and address ol Liquidator: Mr. KerHasp Muhtar 
Dasinr, 1 and 2 Old Court House Corner. Calcutta- 1 

I ):i t < ui appointment • 10th dax of April 1962. 

i; v i i ( , i 1 1 .i pp.nn 1 erl rhe meniners. 

M a., I air Estate's Private Limited. 

(In Liquidation) 

K M. DASTPR, Liquidator. 

( 365 - i i 


STEEL AND STORES PRIVATE LIMITED 
(IN LIQUIDATION) 

Notioe under Motion 485(1) 

OflC’L h- hereby given that the following spce.al 
•uil.u ion was passed m ail Extraordinaiy General Meeting 
t!ie iia-ushers of the Company held on 28th March 1962: 

“ Resolved that t he Company he wound lip voluntai iy 
* on -iiber volentaiy winding up under a*et, -n 
ol the ( drtpanies’ Act, 1956, and Lint din Iv. 
I‘ 8 1 rat. B.Cor A.C.A., of Messrs. K. Pra-sad & Co., 
'»! <5L' Nab.ni Sett Bond, Cnlcutta-7, he and is hei.'hv 
u,j|mm ntc'd liquidator for the purpose oj such winding up 
'' di .d the poxxeis gi\en hy the Act to Liquidator »u 
AT • * i " 1 s* * i voluntary winding up at a remuneration of 
H bin ptu month”. 


By order of the Board, 

Cm H QOFNKA D ec+or 


7i Ive ^kat Street, Calcutta 
the 28th March 1962 


(351- 1. 


STATE BANK OF INDIA 

Calcutta. April 3. 1962 

THE following appointments on the Bank’s staff are hen hx 
notified : — 

Shi i B. N Mukheriee, Stafi Assistant, to art as 
Aeeoiintant. Netaji Stihhas Hoad Branch. Calcutta, as 
from the 30th .l.muarv 1962. vice Shri P. Kotaiah. 

Shn B. S. Bhattaeharva to be Assistant-m-Chargc, 
Bills Suh-Sectum. Accounts Department, Calcutta 
Local Head Office, as Irotn the 1st March 1962, vice 
Shri K. K. Deh 

Shn A K Ghosh to be Axsistant-in-Charge, Bills Sub- 
Set turn, Accounts Depattmenf, Calcutta Local Hoad 
Office, as from the 5th March 1962, vice Shri B. S. 
Bhattaeharva. 

Shn B. C Topadei . Staff Assistant, to he Agent, 
♦Tadaxpui Cnix^ersit-x Branch, as man the 7th March 
1962. vice Shn N N Mukheriee 

Shn 1*. K. Mitra(l) to he A ssiRt ant-in-Charge, Bills 
Sub-Section, Accounts Department, Calcutta Local 
Head Office, as from the 19th March 1962, vice Shi i 
\ K Ghosh. 

Shri S. N. Misra, Staff Assistant, to be Agent, Ram- 
puihat Branch, a* trom the 21st March 1962, vice 
Shri V. C. tlha. 

Shri S. Das Gupta, clerk, held temporary charge of 
Sanisi Sub-Pav Office (nndei Malda Branch! from tin 1 
i. »: h to the 30th October 1961 inclusive, vice Shri B. C. 
Clial terjec. 

Shn R P. (Biositl, clerk, held temporary charge ot 
diayani Pax Office (under Berhampore. West Bengal, 
Branch ! from I lie 2Kth Novemhei 1961 to the 27lh 
Fehruarv 19(52 ui diisi , .* vice Sliri .1 C Chakra borty. 

Sim S K Muhin-nee Ocik Meld temporary chin go ol 
Sainthia Pay Office i under Sun Blanch) from the 
close of business on the 8th to the commencement of 
hns-m-v-- on the 13th Eehruaix 19(52 \ ice Shri ( S. 

Pan dev 

Shr \ K. Mukheriee, ilirk. held temporary charge ot 
Sihpui Pay Office (under Howrah Branch! from tin 
doso of business on the 21st to the commencement ot 
business on the 23rd February 1962, vice Shri A. K. 
Ghosh. 

Shn B \ Stnha, Sub Accountant held temporary 
chnnv oj Cossipore Pay Office (under Shamhuzar 
Brairdi ! on the 4th and 5th March 1962, vice Shri 
M M Ro\ Choudhury 

Shn P K Mukerii. s uh \ccountani held temporary 
rhnige o! Helm In Pax Office (under Bhoxvanipo'e 
Branch) fiom the commencement oi business on the 
l9;h to the eommem < merit ol business on the 22nd 
M»*r!i 1962 vice Shri s K Bisu 


Bx order , 

B K KACKER, 

Secretary and Treasurer. 

( 888 — 1 ! 




[Jj gist*T9d No. C207 


(Ealrutta 





No. 16 of 1962 




aitra 29] 


THURSDAY, APRIL 19, 1962 


[ SAKA 1884 


CONTENTS: 

Page. 

State Statistical Bureau — Cost of living indexes. 

Calcutta, and wholesale price index 
for the week ending the 7th April 


1962 .. .. .. 107 — 108 

Oaloutta Improvement Trust — Notioes . . 109 — 11 q 

Calcutta Improvement Trust — Notification . . 110 

Corporation of Calcutta — Notice . . 110 


SUPPLEMENT-Offidal Papers 

m n Q .m state statistical bureau, west benqal 

TABLE I 

Cost of living Indsxes, Calcutta and wholesale price index (week ending 7th April 1962) 


All-India wholesale 

Cost of living index — Bane : November. 1950. price index 9 . 


Period. 

i 


Expenditure level (in Rs.) 

-A. 




r— — 
Base. 
1952-63. 

-*■ -u 

Converted 

with 

November 
1960 ae 
base. 


r— 

1—100 


101—200 


201 — 

-350 * 


All 

items. 

Food! 

AH 

items. 

Food? 

9 

All 

items. 

Food. 


(1) 

W 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(«) 

0) 

(8) 

(3) 

M January 

93*9 

88*8 

94*1 

88*4 

94*7 

88*0 

eee 

- 

April 

^ 95*2 

90*4 

95*6 

90*1 

95*3 

90*1 

e e 

.. 

July 

~ 94*0 

89*4 

94*4 

89*6 

94*7 

89*0 

eee 

•*4 

Ootober 

M 95*3 

91*6 

95*3 

91*4 

95*6 

91*3 

- 

ewe 


M January 

mm 

eo*7 

84*7 

91*1 

84*4 

91*7 

84*6 


.. 

April 


89*9 

83*0 

90*5 

83*7 

91*2 

84*0 

88*9 

82*3 

July 

e e 

91*1 

85*6 

91*6 

85*8 

92*0 

86*6 

92*9 

86*0 

October 


98*7 

89*7 

93*9 

89*4 

94*0 

88*0 

90*6 

83*0 


January 

e e 

90*9 

84*8 

91*0 

84*0 

91*2 

** #7 e 

96*9 

88*9 

April 

• e 

95*2 

91*8 

94*8 

90*4 

94*6 

89*0 

100*0 

92*6 

July 

• • 

99*6 

98*0 

98*7 

96*3 

97*8 

94*7 

108*5 

95*1 

October 

e » 

102*4 

101*3 

100*7 

98*9 

99*4 

96*9 

106*7 

98*8 


•Revised series (Base : 1962-59) and the corresponding converted series . 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA 


Co«t of tiring index — Base t November, 1950. 


Alt-Indie wboWu 
Price ind^T** 


Expenditure level (in He.) 
~~~ 101—900 


201—860 


1962-68. 


Coa?*^ 






All 

Food. 



All 

Food. 

All 

Food'. 


I960 * 
U*. 



items. 


items. 


items. 




(1) 


(2) 

(«) 

(4) 

<«) 

(•> 

(»> 

(8) 

(»> 

1967 January 


98*4 

94*6 

97*0 

91*9 

96*2 

90*8 

107 -3 

99- 

April 


100*5 

98*0 

98*9 

95 *5 

97 *0 

93*6 

106 -5 

98. 

July 


106*0 

105 *8 

104*1 

103 *0 

10** 7 

100*7 

111*9 

101- 

October 

- 

107*6 

107*0 

105*7 

104 -0 

104-0 

102*3 

108 -9 

lot. 

1968 January 

• . 

106-0 

101 *8 

103 *1 

98*1 

101 *8 

96-4 

106 -o 

98-: 

April 

• e 

106 *0 

103 *1 

104 *4 

100 *2 

103 *2 

9# *9 

107 *4 

99 -j 

July 

aa 

109*4 

107 -6 

107 *9 

104 *9 

106 *7 

102 *6 

114-7 

108* 

October 

via 

113*8 

114*3 

111*2 

113*3 

109*8 

108*6 

116-2 

107- 

1969 January 


108*5 

97 *2 

102 *9 

95 *6 

102-7 

94*6 

112-8 

104 

April 

• • 

106*8 

100*9 

106*1 

99 *4 

104 -6 

98 -2 

111 -9 

108 

July 

a s 

no *4 

108*3 

109 *2 

106 *1 

108 *1 

104 *0 

116*8 

108 

October 

e • 

114*6 

116-0 

113-0 

113*4 

111 *6 

111*0 

119-3 

110< 

1960 January 

• c 

no *4 

108 *3 

108 *6 

105 *3 

107 *5 

103 -2 

118-8 

110 

April 

e • 

110*5 

108*0 

108*9 

105 *2 

107-9 

103 *3 

120-6 

111- 

July 

m 9 

114*4 

113*9 

112*8 

111 *6 

111*5 

109 •« 

124-7 

118 

October 

•• 

114*4 

113-6 

113*2 

111 *8 

112-2 

110 *4 

126 -3 

117 

1961 January 


109 *7 

105-0 

108*7 

103 *2 

108 -4 

102 -3 

126-6 

118 

February 


110*6 

106-1 

109*5 

104 *3 

109 -0 

108 -3 

126-7 

117 

March 

.. 

110*9 

106-1 

109 *9 

104 -6 

109 -5 

103 9 

127-6 

118 

April 

. , 

112*2 

108-2 

111*4 

107-2 

111*0 

106*6 

126-8 

118 

May 


112-1 

107-8 

111*4 

107-0 

111*0 

106*5 

126-3 

118 

June 


113*7 

110-1 

112-7 

109-1 

112*1 

108*4 

126-9 

lid 

July 

. . 

116-2 

114-1 

115-1 

113-2 

114*2 

112-2 

12S-7 

119 

August 

. . 

117-9 

116-8 

116-6 

115-7 

115-6 

114-5 

127-4 

118 

September 


118-0 

116-4 

116-6 

115-2 

115-4 

113-8 

124-6 

11C 

October 

, , 

119*9 

119-7 

118*2 

1J9-2 

116-9 

116-7 

124-4 

116 

November 

. . 

120 -3 

120- 1 

118-4 

118-1 

116-9 

116*6 

124 -3 

116 

December 


117*0 

114-5 

115*3 

112*0 

114*1 

111*1 

122-9 

113 

1962 January 


114*4 

110*1 

112*8 

108*8 

112*1 

107*0 

123-2 

114 

February 

• • 

114*3 

109*7 

112*8 

107*7 

112*1 

106*6 



Week ending 










10*3-62 

• • 

116*0 

111*1 

113*6 

109*2 

112*8 

108*2 

124-7 

lid 

1 1 i 

17-3-62 

. . 

116*0 

112*6 

114*6 

110*8 

113*7 

109*8 

123-7 

1M 

24-3-62 


115-8 

112-2 

114*3 

110*4 

113*4 

109*2 

•• 

• # 

31-3-62 

. . 

115*6 

112-0 

114*1 

110*2 

113*3 

109*1 

•• 

1 

7-4-62 

. . 

118*0 

115*9 

116*2 

114*0 

115*1 

112*6 

•• 



'Revised series (Base i 1962-68) ft ad the corresponding eooverted series. 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 19, 1962 


109 


CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR THE IMPROVE- 
in MENT OF CALCUTTA 

islntice under section 43 of the Calcutta Improve ment 

* Act, 1911 (Bengal Act V of 1911) 

QfHEME No. LXVII (BAGHBAZAR STREET TO 

* GALIFF STREET) -REVISED 

]. The Board of Trustees for the Improvement 
of Calcutta, hereby give notice that Scheme 
No. LXVII which was first published under section 43 
of the Calcutta Improvement Act in the “Calcutta 
Gazette” on the 29th July 1954 and advertised in 
the newspaper has been revised under section 50 of 
the Calcutta Improvement Act and the following 
modifications have been made. Save as altered here- 
inafter the scheme as published under section 43 of 
the Calcutta Improvement Act as aforesaid shall 
remain in force. 

(a) The following properties which were scheduled 
for acquisition in Scheme No. LXVII are now 
excluded from acquisition: — 

Name of Street and No. of Municipal Holdings. 
Copal Mitra Lane — 5. 

Nandalal Bose Lane — 19, 21 A, 23. 

tb) The following properties which were scheduled 
for acquisition in Scheme No. LXVII are now 
excluded from acquisition but scheduled for levy of 
betterment fee under provisions of section 78A of 
the Calcutta Improvement Act: 

Name of Street and No. of Municipal Holdings. 

Duma Charan Mukherjee Street- 28, 23 /1, 23 2A, 
23/2B, 24/1 A, 24/IB, 25/1 A, 25 IB, 25 1C, 
25 ID, 25/IE, 25 / IF and 25/1G. 

Copal Mitra Lane A, 6A, 7A, 7P> and 7C. 

Haralal Mitra Street— 19, 21 A, 21 B, 21 C, 21 D, 
21E. 2 IF, 21G, 21 H, 21J, 21K, 21L and 21M. 

Nandalal Bose Lane — 25. 

(c) The following properties are scheduled for levy 
betterment fee under the provisions of section 7SA 
oi the Calcutta Improvement Act due to the widening 
of a portion of Uma Charan Mitra Lane (old Haralal 
Mitra Lane). 

Name of Street and No. of Municipal Holdings. 

Lma Charan Mitra Lane (Old Haralal Mitra 
Lane)— 1 A, IB, 2, 3A, 3B and 15. 

-• Particulars of the revision, the revised scheme 
plan and the list of properties excluded from 
acquisition and that of properties scheduled for levy 
betterment fee under section 78A of the Calcutta 
approvement Act, on account of this revision may 
°ffi ce of the Trust at 10 Netaji 
has Road, Calcutta-1, on week days between 
m f'P 1, a t n( f. 1 P-m* and copies of such documents 
be obtained on payment of the following fees: — * 

Particulars of the revised scheme- Re. 0.25 nP. 
Plan of the revised scheme— Re. 1.00 nP. 

Statement of land excluded from acquisition and 
nat of land scheduled for levy of betterment 
Iee on account of this revision— Re. 0.25 nP. 


3. Objections to the levy of betterment fee under 
section 78A of the Calcutta Improvement Act on 
account of this revision will be received up to 16th 
July 1962. 

K. SEN, Chairman. 
Calcutta, the 23rd March 1962. 


SCHEME No. LXXXV (SUBHAS SAROBAR) 

1. It is notified under section 43 of the Calcutta 
Improvement Act that a General Improvement 
Scheme to be known as Scheme No, LXXXV 
(Subhas Sarobar) for the area ol Scheme 1VM 
(Supplementary) in Constituency No. 36 of the 
Calcutta Corporation, to provide for a lake, parks 
and gardens, open space and playgrounds and pro- 
vision therein of recreation building and structures 
and other necessary aids to field and aquatic sports 
including a swimming area and a swimming pool, 
a boat-house, construction of roads, pathways and 
cycle track and other developments, has been 
framed by the Board of Trustees for the Improve- 
ment of Calcutta. 

2. The boundary of the area comprised within 
and affected by the Scheme shown within red 
verge on the plan is as follows: — 

On the North: Starting from the north-easterrt 
corner of 75 Narkeldanga Main Road running 
eastwards along the southern edge of Narkel- 
danga Main Road, western, southern and eastern 
boundaries of premises No. 81 Narkeldanga 
Main Road, again eastward along the 
southern edge of Narkeldanga Main Road, 
to its eastern end where it meets the western 
boundary of Calcutta Corporation pumping 
station on New Cut Canal surplus land. 

On the East: From this point running south** 
ward along the western boundaries of canal 
surplus land to a point where it meets the 
western edge of Radhamadhab Dutta Garden 
Lane. From this point running southward 
along the western edge of Radhamadhab Dutta 
Garden Lane to the north-eastern corner of 
No. 58, Suren Sarkar Road. Then westward 
and southward along the northern and western 
boundaries of the said premises to its south- 
western corner. 

On the South: From this point running west- 
ward along the northern edge of Suren Sarkar 
Road, the eastern and northern boundaries of 
45B Suren Sarkar Road, northern and western 
boundaries of 45A Suren Sarkar Road and again 
along the northern edge of Suren Sarkar Road 
to a point situated at a distance of 56 ft. from 
the north-western corner of 21/1 Surah 3rd 
Lane and then running south-westward across 
Suren Sarkar Road to the north-western corner 
of 21/1 Surah 3rd Lane then along the western 
and southern boundaries of the said premises 
to its south-eastern corner, then southwards 
along the western edge of Surah 3rd Lane to a 
distance of 320 ft. then westward to a point 
on the eastern boundary of plot 56 in Scheme 
IVM, situated at a distance of 20 ft to the 


110 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 19, 1962 


south from its north-eastern corner, then north- 
ward along its eastern boundary to its north- 
eastern corner, then westward along the 
northern boundary of plot 56, eastern and 
northern boundaries of plot Nos. 53, 48 and 47, 
Scheme IVM respectively, and the northern 
boundary of plot No. 45, Scheme IVM, then 
across 100 ft. C.I.T. Road to a point on the 
eastern boundary of 38 Badan Roy Lane, at 
a distance of 80 ft. to the south from its north- 
eastern corner, then to its north-eastern corner 
and then westward along its northern boundary 
to the point where it meets the eastern edge 
of Badan Roy Lane. 

On the West: From this point running north- 
ward along the eastern edge of Badan Roy 
Lane to its northern end where it meets the 
southern edge of Suren Sarkar Road, then 
eastward along the southern edge of Suren 
Sarkar Road to a distance of 244 ft. then across 
Suren Sarkar Road northward along the 
eastern, northern and again eastern edge of the 
Calcutta Corporation passage to its northern 
end, and then across it and along the eastern 
boundaries of Premises No. 34G, 34F and 14E, 
Suren Sarkar Road and 75 Narkeldanga Main 
Road to the starting point. 

3. Particulars and other information relating to 
the Scheme and a plan of the area comprised in the 
scheme may be inspected at the office of the Trust 
at 10 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, between 11 a.m. 
and 3 p.m. on weekdays and between 11 a.m. and 
12 noon on Saturdays. 

All lands required for execution of the scheme 
have already been acquired in connection with 
Calcutta Improvement Trusts Scheme No. JVM 
(Supplementary). 

Copies of the above document will be delivered 
on application and on payment of following fees: — 

Particulars of the scheme and other informa- 
tion relating thereto — Rs. 0.25 nP. 

Plan of the scheme area — Re. 1.00 nP. 

4. Objections to the scheme will be received up 
to 21st May 1962. 

K. SEN, 
Chairman. 

Calcutta, 

The 9th April 1962. 


NOTIFICATION 

Repayment of three per cent. Calcutta Improve® 
Trust Debenture Loan of 1937, dated the tn.1! 
July 1937. U,h 

The three per cent. Calcutta Improvement T„ . 
Debenture Loan of 30th July 1937 for Rs. 50 00(S 
is repayable on the 30th July 1962 from which d? 
interest on it will cease. Holders of Debenture* 5 
this loan should tender their Debentures at the in ° 
Authorities Loan Section, State Bank of ]„£! 
Calcutta, at least three weeks before the due date S 
repayment with the following endorsement on thi 
back of each Debenture: — 

"Received payment in full of all demand f or 
principal and interest hereon. 


Signature of Holder. 
K. SEN, Chairman. 

10 Netaji Subhas Road, 

Calcutta-!. 

The 23rd February 1962. 


CORPORATION OF CALCUTTA 
NOTICE 

Notice is hereby given for the information of the 
public that the Corporation of Calcutta under 
powers vested unto it, has by its resolution, dated 
the 5th May 1961, prescribed the alignment of a 
30 ft. projected public street joining Ram Mohan 
Bcra Lane with Gobra Gorosthan Lane crossin 1 
As gar Mistry Lane under section 361 read with 
section 356 of the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1951, m 
Ward No. 56. 

A copy of plan prepared in this behalf mav b.' 
seen in the office of the Chief Valuer and Survev.tr 
on any working day during the hours of 1 1 a.m. and 
2 p.m. on payment of usual fees. 


P. C. MAJUMDAR, Commissioner. 

Central Municipal Office, 

The 31st March, 1962. 


rrintea ana putuisnea oy ine ^superintendent, Government Printing West Benca! 

at the West Bengal Government Press, Alipore. 3 ‘ b 


legist*** 


CEaXrutta 





VAISAKHA 6 ] 


THURSDAY, APRIL 26, 1962 


[ SARA lSh'4 


PART II — Advertisements, Notict\s 

Procedure regarding sanding Manuscripts tor publication of Advertisements, Notices, etc.! in the 
1 Calcutta Gazette” (Part II). 

1. Manuscripts should be properly edited and complete in itself. 

2. Manuscripts should always he typewritten on one side of the paper. The name of signatory should he typewritten 
wiow the signature. 

3 Manuscripts intended far advertisement in the next issue of “Calcutta Gazette” shall he received hy Publication Sales 
ones of New Secretariat Buildings, 1 Hastings Street, Calcutta, up to 3-30 p. m. an Friday and at Head Office at Alipore up to 
1 a. m. on Saturday. 

4. All costs shall be paid in advance and deposited along with the manuscripts. 

5 Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING (PUBLICATION 
IRANCH), WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS, ALIPORE. 

The pros* shall n ot bo held responsible for delay in publication of any advertisement due to the non-oosorvanco of the 
utryctions detailed above. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


ieneral Instructions to candidates applying in response to 
advertisements issued by the Commission tor recruit* 
mem to posts of “Seleotlon”. 

(i) Instructions regarding submission of application. - 

implications are to bo made on the prescribed torrm which 
bill be available from tbo office ot the Public Service Com- 
Hussion, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor), 
Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a large self 
iddre&sed envelope with Btamps sufficient to cover the 
Katage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 
opies ot the prescribed form may apply on any similar 
Jped (not handwritten) form showing exactly the word- 
Pg and spacing of the sample form published in the 
Calcutta Gazette” of the 1st September 1955, provided 
fee blanks are filled ud in the candidates' own handwriting. 

.(-) Particulars and certificates required.— -Candidates 

Nuld inrmsh evidence of their age, qualifications and 
frwous experience together with certificates written not 
r ° re than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
^actle^ 0118 ^ 6 P er8ons » testifying to their private 

Commission precepts only the age of a candidate as 
fmai/t ln Matriculation or the Secondary School 
L Reaving Certificate. In the case of a female candi- 
Scbnr age 18 no ^ recorded in the Matriculation or 
F *mal Certificate, any of the following evidence ot 
* 1 ace ®Ptod by the Commission:— 

* * rom hhe Headmistress of the school 

w mch she last attended, showing her exact age as 

recorded in the school register. 


2. An affidavit regarding her age sworn by her father 
or mother or some other person in a position to 
know hy having been present or hoard ot her birth 
at the time of occurrence. 

A certificate regarding her age, from a Member of 
the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who must 
have known the candidate and her family, indicat- 
ing clearly the evidence on the basis ot which he/ 
she satisfied himself /herselt on the point. 

(A) Fee.- Candidates must enclose with their apoiica- 
lions a fee of 11s. 5 in the lorm of a receipted chelan 
from a Government Treasury or the Reserve Rank of India 
under the head “XXXVI— Miscellaneous- Receipts of th« 
1'ublic Service Commission, West Bengal”. Money order*, 
cheques, etc., in lieu of treasury challans are not accented 
Postal order, however, may be accepted from candiaates. 
.They should be crossed and made payable to “The Socre- 
inry, Public Service Commission, West Bengal”. No appli- 
cation will he considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application tee. 

Candidates abroad may deposit their application fees 
with the High Commissioner of India or the Embassy, as 
the case may be, and obtain receipts for the Bame. which 
will have to be attached to their applications to he sub- 
mitted to the Commission. 

Candidates in Government service should make *ure 
nefore depositing fee that their applications will be forward- 
ed by their superior officers. In no case will the fee paid 
with the application be refunded. 

The Commission may remit fee in case of genuine 
indigent and bona fide displaced person from Pakistan* 


172 


THK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 26, 1962 


An indigent displaced person shall, in the first instance, 
pay the application fee prescribed tor a gazetted poet 
advertised by the Commission but if he/ she is selected for 
and appears at the interview, the fee paid by him/her will 
be refunded atterwards. 

Note. — “(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must lurnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is bona lido displaced person from Pakistan, e.g 
retugeo registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original. 



of tlm students. The qualifications are relaxahi 
discretion of the Commission in ease of candidato at fin 
wise well qualified. Age:— Ordinarily not beW V th * 

on the 1st May 1962, relaxable in the case oi ,.„7\ 
possessing exceptionally high qualifications and 
holding substantive appointment in the Educii 
n lent, West Bengal. 


lor 


Ufl «lidi 




u,f) » 


Closing date— The 12th May 1962. 


(b) One Lecturer in Political Science (Women’s 

(Men unsuitable), 


Branch] 


(li) A member of the Scheduled Cwste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his appli- 
cation a certificate in original Irom a gazetted officer or a 
Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging to 
the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 

(m) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion lee must tumish besides the evidence required under 
Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or » Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.’’ 


(c) One Lecturer in Geography (Men’s Branch* ,«• 

unsuitable), ' "Wi 

(d) One Lecturer in Economic Theory and 
Problems of India (Men’s Branch) (Women 

(o) One Lecturer In Accountancy Gram ,vr 

unsuitable), P (Uo ^ 

<0 One Lecturer in Banking and Current n 

(Women unsuitable), y 

(g) One Lecturer in Secretarial Practice tw 

unsuitable). ( 'Wi 


(4) Address. — Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 

(5) Canvassing. — Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
inlluence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
lor appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
imrsons interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will ho disregarded. 

(6) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Daraodar Valley Corporation), in 
India will be rejected unloss they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 

Candidates serving under Government or a local or 
Statutory Body should submit an advance copy in the pros- 
cribed form. The application fee should in such cases be 
attached to the advance copy and not to the original. The 
candidature of such applicants may not however be con- 
sidered if the original applications do not roach the Com- 
mission’s office within a fortnight from the closing date. 
Unless applications in original or advance copies with 
application fees are received within the closing date, late 
applications may be rejected. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Alt pore, the 27th .January 196i. 


Advertisement No. 21 

APPLICATIONS are invited from Indian citizens for the 
following posts : — 

(a) Two Associate Assistant Professors of Electrical 
Engineering in the West Bengal General Service. Posts- 
One permanent and the other temporary. Women 
unsuitable Pay:— Rs. 100— 15- 85() — 50 — 1 ,:&0 (E.B. 
alter Stb ami Kith stages) per month. Higher initial pay 
up to Its <>25 max be granted on the basis of qualifications 
ami experience. 

Qualification: Essential — (i) A first class Bachelor’s 
degree or a Post-Graduate degree in Electrical Engineer- 
ing or equivalent qualification , (ii) Five years’ experience 
in the field ot Electrical Engineering; (iii) Special 
kiuAvledge ol any one or more of the following: --Electrical 
Machines, Electrical Measuring Instruments, Industrial 
Electronics, Control S\ stem Engineering, Power Generation 
jhkI Transmission. Desirable- (i) Industrial experience; 
(u) leaching and research experience in an institution, of 
University standard; (iii) Good power of expression in 
Bengali; (lvi Corporate Membership of professional c/r 
learned societies. Special condition — Willing participation 
in the coporato life of the College by taking part in games 
a»nd sports and social activities and interest in the welfare 


In the West Bengal Junior Educational Service 

temporary. Pay:— Rs. 275 -15 -350— 2D— 650 
plus house rent allowance a*s admissible under i| )0 
Higher initial pay up to Us. ,‘150 may bo granted 
basis of qualifications and experience. 


Post: 

IllDlllj 

iuKj 

oil llj 


yuaimcduofis; ror Lecturer in Political Sclent 
Essential — A first class .Master’s degree m ,, ' 
(Group B) / Political Science, Or, A second class Vpw 
degree m Eoeouoimes (Group B) /Political Scierne within 
class Honours m Economics in Bachelor's d,.,r lv ,. Or 
Doctorate degree in Poiilical Science with |, M ,j,J 
Honours m Economies or soec/ud elrws Master's dcim*.-7 
Economies (Group B) /Political Science ut u „ 
Univeisitv; 1 

Or, 


Equivalent foreign qualifications; 


Or, 

If n candidate lia.s otherwise a good academic im, r 
second class Maslei’s degree m Economics <(hini|i It 
lolitieal Science with second (buss Jlonouis m k,i,i,o- 
111 Hu> Bachelor’s degree, plus h\*> \ear^’ tc.nKr 
cxpcneine in a iccognised College as a whuhi'i 
I earlier in the subject The period of teaching cxperiem 
may be relaxed at the discretion of the Commission. 

Far Lecturer in Goograpny: Essential V Ihm t i,e 

Muster’s degree, Or, A second class Mattel's dcgrci* wii 
first class Honours in the Bacheloi's degrn Or,. 
Doctorate degree with a first class llonouis m second 1 Lo 
Masters degree, in Geography of an Indian nmvcmin. 

0r , 

Equivalent foreign qualifications; 

Or, 

If a candidate ha«s otherwise a good acadciiin rmim j 
second class Master's degree with second cbis- Hoiimii' i, 
the Bachelor’s degree in Geogiapliv, plus iiu* uari 1 
teaching experience in a recognised College a uliolr-tiu 

teacher in the subject. The period of teaching experien^ 
may be relaxed at the dlsoretlon of the Commission. 

For Lecturer In Economic Theory and Economic Probiw 
of India: Essential— A first class Master's 
Economics or Commerce, Or, A second Mastcj 

degree in Economics with first class Kntiouis 1,1 
Bachelor’s degree in Economics, Or, A second class 
degree in (’ommerce with first class in H t om , Oh 
Doctoral e degree with first class Honours I ‘•econa - 
Master’s degree in Economics, Or, A Doctorate de^er n 
first class in B. Com. /second class Master's degret {. _ 
Commerce; 

° Tf 

Equivalent foreign qualifications; 

Or, 

If a candidate lias otherwise a good academic 
second class Master’s degree with second H»ss | 
in Economics or a second class Master’s 



I\UIT II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 26, 1962 


173 


Comin®^® "i t , U( , 0 j n a rpeogniged College as a whole-time 
1 i!«r in the subject. The period of teaching experience 
he discretion of the Commission. 


with second class in 11. Coin., plus five years’ 


.gclipr in the snbjee 

may 


be relaxed at he discretion of the Commission. 


Lecturers in Aooountanoy Group and in Banking 
w Currency Group: Essential — ii) Membership of the 
? t t uti' of ( bartered Accountants of India or qualifica- 
entitling a person to be a member ol the Institute on 
application ; 

Or f 

/,,] (a) A first Hass Master’s decree m Commerce, Or, A 
class Master’s degree in Commerce with first Hass 
M ( 0 m., Or, A Doctorate degree with first class in 
1} tutu or second Hass Master’s degree in Commerce; 

Or, 

Equivalent foreign qualifications; 

Or, 

jf ;i candidate? has otherwise a good academic record, a 
Ha»ss Master’s degree in Commerce with second 
rhiss m 11. Com., plus five years’ teaching experience in a 
imrmised College as a whole-time teacher in the subject. 

The period of teaching experience may be relaxed at the 
discretion of the Commission. 


(h) (For Lecturer in Accountancy Group) Auditing as 
one ol (be optional papers in the Master’s degree course; 
(For Lecturer in Banking and Currency Group)— 

Ik, liking and Currency as one of the optional papers in the 
Master’s degree course. 


For Lecturer In Secretarial Practice: Essential— (h A 

In isf class Master’s degree in Commerce, Or, A second class 
Master’s degree in Commerce with first Hass in 11. Com., 
Or, \ Docl orate degree with a first class in II. Com, or 
smmd class Master’s degree in Commerce; 

Or, 

Equivalent fmcign qualifications, 

Or, 

It a candidate lias otherwise a good academic record, a 
'Miiinl ( lass Master’s degree in Commerce with second Hass 
in It Com., plus five years’ teaHiing experience in a 
nrugmsed College as a whole-time teacher in the subject. 

Tho period of teaching experience may be relaxed at the 
discretion of the Commission. 


(n» business Organisation as one of the optional papers 
1,1 (he Master’s degree course. 


Desirable (for all the posts)— ( local power of expression 
in Bengali -spoken and written. 

Age (for all the posts): — Not more than 35 years on the 
M J '1 n ' 1B62, rolaxahle for specially qualified candidates 
i.7 '° r persons holding substantive appointment in the 
Much t ion Department, West Bengal. 

Closing date- The 9th May 1962. 


Age Concession 

Hu' upper ago limit for all the posts is rolaxahle hv five 
,\.'V , r s< ‘heduled Castes /Tribes and up to 45 vears ferr 
'^Placed persons from Pakistan. 


. who bGforc the l*Mh August 1947, w 
1iw/|ip- Poisoned, interned, or extornedf on account 
for mJi n °tivities in connection with the WiTntry’s strugg 
nw, ‘'Pondence not being convicted of a«n offen 


ependence not being convicted of a*n offe 
m rpsnl .? T ra J turpitude, shall he entitled to a concess 
tiiII ^ ( the upper age limit. The concession gran 
rnp nt inf lal to exa °t period of detentiem, impris 
of four year iment ° r externmei3 t' suffered up to a maxim 


Applv to Secretary with a Treasury Chalan of Rs. 5 
under head “XXXVI —M iseellnneous — Receipts at Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal”, or a Crossed Postal 
Order of Rs. 5 payable to “Secretary, Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal”. Overseas candidates may 
deposit their application tees with the High Commission of 
India or the Indian Embassy, as the case may be. 
Particulars and prescribed application l onus are obtainable 
from the office of the Commission, Anderson House 
(ground tioor), Alipoie. Calcutta-27, personally or on 
sending a self-addressed envelope (size 10" xG") with 
postage stamp of 35 ill', and the name ot the post 
superscribed on the envelope. Those who intend to take 
application forms and/or submit the applications personally, 
should do so between 10-15 a. m. and 5-00 p.m. cm full 
working days and lad ween 10-15 a.m. and 12-50 p.m. on 
Saturdays. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, 

West Bengal. 

Aliporo, the 7 ill April 1902. 


Advertisement No. 22 

EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT OF BENGALI 
TYPISTS 


A COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION will be hold in 
Calcutta in dune 1902 lor recruitment ot Bengali Typists 
m the West Bengal Secretariat and in certain other 
Government offices. Pay: Rs. 125— 200 plus house rent 
allowance it admissible. 

Qualifications: School Final Examination Certificate or 
its equivalent. Age below 25 years on 1st July 1902, 
provided that— (a) il the candidate is holding a permanent 
jnist under the Government ot West Bengal his age oil that 
date shall not be more than 50 years; (b) if a candidate is 
temporarily holding a post ot typist on the results of a 
recruitment examinatn/u held by the Commission his age 
on that date sha»ll not exceed 25 years by more than tho 
period of lus continuous temporary service in such a post. 
Tho age limit is also rolaxahle by live years tor Schedule 
Castes/ Tribes and by three years tor displaced persons 
trom Pakistan and bv eight, years if such a displaced 
person be also of a Scheduled Caste/Tribo. The age limit 
is also rolaxahle in certain other cases. 

Copies ol detailed notice and application iorm obtainable 
tree ol cost on and from 25rd April 1902 trom the office ot 
the Public Service Com mission, West Bengal, Anderson 
House (ground floor), Alipore, Culeuttu-27, personally or 
on sending a self-addrcsod large envelope size (10" xo") with 
postage stamps worth 25 nnye paise affixed thereon. Those 
who intend to t*»ke application torn), etc., and/or submit 
the applications personally, should do so between 10-15 a.m. 
and 5-00 p.m. on full working days and between 10-15 a.m. 
and 12-50 p.m. on Saturdays. Applications (with two 
copies ol passport size photographs) to be submitted on 
prescribed form with a Crossed Postal Order of Rs. 5.00 
payable to “the Secretary, Public Service Commission, 
West Bengal” or a Treasury Chalan for Rs. 5.00 under 
head “XXXVI— Miscellaneous- Receipts of the Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal”. The Commission may 
remit fees of genuinely indigent and bona fide displaced 
persons. A candidate seeking remission of fees will, 
however, be required to pay the prescribed fee along with 
the application. If he appears at the examination and 
satisfies the Commission that he is a bona fide displaced 
person in indigent circumstances who can ill afford to pay 
the fee, the »mount paid shall he refunded to him. 

Last date of filing applications— 14th May 1962. 

A. C. R0Y r , Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, 
West Bengal. 


Alipore, 

The 2nd April 1962. 


174 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 26, 1962 


Advertisement No. 23 

APPLICATIONS are invited fium Indian citizens for the 

following posts: — 

(a) One Professor of Veterinary Physiology and Animal 
Nutrition, Bengal Veterinary College, In the West Bengal 

Higher Veterinary Servioe. Post permanent but the 
appointment will be made on temporary basis. Pays — 
Rs. 100 — I A 850—50—1,350 (E.B. alter 8th and IGth 

stages) per month plus lurnse rent allowance as admissible 
under the rules. 

Qualifications: Essential:- (i) Membership of the Royal 
College ol Veterinary Surgeons or a University degree in 
Medu mi* or a high Master’s degree in Physiology or Bio- 
chemistry with Physiology as one oi the subjects in B.Sc. ; 

( 1 1 ) At least live years’ experience ol the teaching of, or 
ol icseaicli in, Animal Physiology or Animal Nutrition or 
Bio-Chemistry. Desirable — vi) Post-CGruduate degree or 
diploma in Animal Physii/logy or Animal Nutrition or Bio- 
Chemistry ; (n) Experience ot the teaching of Veterinary 
students; (in) Ability to conduct and guide research as 
evidenced by published original w r ork ol high order; (iv) 
Administrative ability. Age: -Between 25 and 45 years 
on the 51st December 1962, relaxahle in the ease of 
candidates possessing exceptionally high qualifications and 
for persons holding substantive appointment under the 
Central or a State (Government. 

Closing date The 12th May 1962. 

(b) One Assistant Research Officer in the West Bengal 
General Service (Class III) under the Scheme for the 
Development of Mutton Breeds of Goats in West Bengal.— 

Post temporary. Pay: Rs. 250 — 15— 550 per month. 

Qualifications: Essential — (i) A degree or diploma in 
Veterinary Science or Dairying or a degree in Agriculture 
ol a recognised University </r Institute; (ii) Kxperionce of 
management, feeding and bleeding of livestock in a live- 
stock farm. Desirable — (i) Training in Animal Husbandry 
and/or in Animal (Genetics in a recognised Institution; (ii) 
Knowledge 1 oj Bengali - spoken and written. Age: — Not 
more than 35 yeais on the 51st January 1062, relaxable in 
llio case ol an exceptionally qualified candidate and also 
for a person holding substantive appointment under 
(Government. 

Closing date— The 10th May 1962 

(e) One Kindergarten Mistress, Dow Hill Girls' Sohool, 
Kurseong, in the West Bengal General Servioe (Education). 

Post temporary. Men unsuitable. Pay:— Rs. 225 — 10 — 
525 — 15 — 175 per month. Free furnished quarters will be 
provided; occupier’s share ol Municipal Tax and the cost oi 
electric current consumed being payable by the incumbent. 

Qualifications: Essential — A full course of training in a 

recognised Training College for the training of teachers for 
Kindergai ton work, relaxable for a candidate having 
adequate experience as Kindergarten Teacher in English 
Medium Schools. Desirable — ( 1 ) Ability to take classes in 
drawing and handwork; (ii) Experience of teaching young 
children iind knowledge ol Music. Age: — Not imrre than 
•W) years on the Isf May 1962, lelaxahle in the case of 
candidates possessing exceptionally high qualifications and 
lor persons holding substantive appointment in the 
Education Department, West Bengal. 

Closing date— The 12th May 1962. 

(d) Two Lecturers hi Physios, 

(e) Two Lecturers In Mathematics, 

In the West Bengal Junior Educational Servioe. Posts 
permanent. Women unsuitable. Pay? — Rs. 275 — 15 — 350 — 
20- 050 (F.B. after 8th and 16th stages) per month. 
Higher initial pay up to Rs 350 mav be granted on the 
haul’s of qualifications and experience. 

Qualification: Essential— For Lecturers In Physios:— A 

first class Master’s degree in Pure and/or Applied Physics, 
Or, A second class Master’s degree in Pure and/or Applied 
Physics with first class Honours in Physics in the Bachelor’s 


f Past j; 



degree, Or, A Doctorate degree with firBt class Hcrnoui- 
Physics or with second class Master’s degree in p Ur rs j® 
or Applied Physics, of an Indian University; an< * ; 

Or, 

Equivalent foreign qualifications; 

Or, 

U a candidate has otherwise a good academic record 
second class Master’s degree in Pure an /or Applied Ph\ 
with second class Honours in Physics in the Bache/ 1 ^ 
degree plus live years’ teaching experience in a m'oijn,*!! 
college as a- wholetinic teacher in the subject. The Dertart 
of teaching experience may be relaxed at the discretion 
the Commission. n or 

For Lecturers In Mathematics:— A first class Ma N [ 0r 
degree in Applied Mathematics, Or, A second class Master S 
degree in Applied Mathematics with first class Honours u 
Mathematics, Or, A Doctorate degree with first f <J u / 
Honours in Mathematics or with second class Muster’s 
degree in Applied Mathematics, oi an Indian University' 

Or, 

Equivalent foreign qualifications; 

Or, 

li a candidate has otherwise '•* good academic record a 
second class Master’s degree in Applied Mathematics With 
second class Honours in Mathematics plus five years’ 
leaching experience in a recognised college as a whole-tune 
teacher in the subject,. The period of teaching experience 
may be relaxed at the discretion of the Commission. 

Special Condition (for all the posts)— Willing participa- 
tion in the corporate life ol the College by taking part in 
giwnes and sports and social activities and interest m tht 
welfare of the students. 

Dosirable (for all the posts)- (Good power ol expression 
in Bengali — spoken and written. 

Age (for all the posts): — Not more than 55 yeais mi lb 
1st Max 1962, relaxable in the case of specially qualilii'il 
candidates and lor prisons holding suhst.mlivc appoint 
ment in the Education Department, West Bengal. 

Closing date— the 12th May 1962. 

Age Concession 

The upper age limit lor all the posts is relaxahle hy live 
years lor Scheduled C astes/ Tribes and up to 15 years lor 
displaced persons from Pakistan. 

A candidate who before the 15fb August 1947", was 
detained, imprisoned, interned oi extemed on arcmim oi 
his/her activities in connection with the country's st i ugglc 
tor independence, not being convicted ol an oil no e 
indicating moial turpitude, shall be entitled to a conrcsiioii 
in respect of the upper age limit. The concession gtantef. 
will be equal to the exact period ol detentiun. imprison- 
ment. internment or externment suffered up to a niixiniuin 
oi four years. 

Apply to Secretary wifh a Treasury Chilian oi IB 
under head “XXX Vl- Miscellaneous — Receipts of fhiblu 
Set vice Commission, West Bengal” or Crossed I osial 
Order of Rs. 5 payable to “Secretary, Public Serv ,( ‘c 
Commission, West Bengal”. Overseas candidate^ ,na ' 
deposit their application fees with the High Commission or 
India or the Indian Embassy, as the case mav jjc 
Particulars and prescribed application forms oblainn < 
from the office of the Commission, Anderson House (groan 
floor), Alipore, Cnlcutta-27, personally cn on sending a 
self-addressed envelope (size 10" x 6") with I’° s , :a * 
stamp ot 55 nP and the name of Uu* jiost supcisrruicd o 
the envelope. Those who intend to take application * ,,r ^ 
and/or submit the applications personally should do > 
between 10-15 a.m. and 3-00 p.m. on Mill working f * a . vs 3 
between 10-15 a.m. and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission 
West Bengal. 

Alipore, the 10th April 1962. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 26, 1962 


175 


pUtT 


II] 


HIOH COURT, APPELLATE SIDE, CALCUTTA. 

NOTIFICATION 


No 3427 A., dated Calcutta, the 6th April 1962 

irA TIONS are invited from amongst the members of 
u liar who h»ve put in at least three years’ continuous 
1 an j are now in active practice, lor selection to the 
w' l Bengal Civil Service (Judicial) by the High Court, 
fa leu tta* The n 1,111 her vacancies to he filled up by 

Section is nine. 


o The attention of the intending candidates is drawn 
the rules regarding recruitment to the West Bengal Civil 
service (Judicial), published with the Government of West 
ulnoiil Judicial Department notification No. 1713-J., dated 
!|i ’list March 1951, at pages 782-783, Part I of the 
‘‘Calcutta Gazette”, dated the 12th April 1951, as eub- 
seiiuentl.v nmonded by the Government of West Bengal, 
law (Judicial) Department notifications No. 3674-J., dated 



of the ■'V.'ttll’lltun. , ,»wi/vu 1/110 null ****** 

at pages 44.34-4435, Part 1 of the said Gazette, dated the 
J4th December 1959, respectively. For the required quali- 
fications candidates are referred to the amendments of the 
rules as published in the “Calcutta Gazette”, dated the 
14 th May 1959, mentioned above. 


3, Applications for selection must reach the under- 
signal not later than the 20th May 1962, in the form 
proscribed for the purpose copies whereof may be had free 
ot cost from the office of the undersigned on applicaticm 
which must bo accompanied by an attested copy of the 
Matriculation Examination Pass Certificate or its equivalent. 


4. Only those candidates whose age is not less than 27 
lours and not more than 32 years on the 1st January 1962, 
will he supplied with IV/rms of application. 


•V Endeavour, in any form, to enlist support for his 
candidature will render a candidate ineligible for selection 
and no candidate will be interviewed by the undersigned 
prior to Ins heing called upon, if necessary. Interviews 
will not he granted, also, by the undersigned to the parents, 
gumdians or well-wishers ol prospective candidates. 


d. Those whr/ have already applied in pursuance of the 
f mitt’s notification No. 7086 A., dated the 28th November 
l‘ H ’d, need not apply again. 


U. N. DTTTT, Registrar. 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
PURULIA 


Insolvency Case No. 1 of 1958 

^|v ,na j !*’ r "I Until. Mo him Das, son of Sarnda Prasad 
( hristian hv religion, by profession service, 
JiK ! nt Ad™. D. S. Kasftipur, district Purulia, 


hereby given that the abovettumod insolvent 


^ITICK 

i;k annli, I i ' i * 7 ****»'« vunv i»m; uiiuveiiuiiieu insolvent 

that n °! absolute discharge on 16th March 1962 and 

sod apphl.Htion mS flX ° d 191,1 M " y 1962 f,,r 1,0firin « tho 


Kith April 19B2. 


S. K. SEN, 
District Judge. 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, COOCH 
BEHAR 

Insolvency Case No. 1 of 1061. 

NOTICE is hereby given that Kshiranya Kumar Sarkar, 
son of late Surya Nath Sarkar, of Taluk Knljani, police- 
station Kotwalt, district Cooch Beliar, who was adjudged 
insolvent under the Court’s order, dated 6th January 1962, 
has applied at the Court for his discharge, and that the 
Court has fixed the 9th day of May 1962 at 10 o’clock for 
hearing the application. 

Cooch Beliar, the 12th April 1962. 

N. C. MUKHERJl, 
District Judge. 


(366 ~1 ) 


IN THE COURT OF THE MUNSIF, 2ND COURT, 
OHANBAD 

Money Suit No. 38/17 of 1060/61 

Messrs. Manhhum Coal Syndicate (P) Ltd., Plaintiff 
versus 

Union of India, Defendant. 

To Messrs. Ahmedpur Co-c/perative Society Limited alias 
Ahmedpur Co-operative Store Limited having its office 
at Ahmedpur. 

WHEREAS the ahovomontioned Money Suit has been 
filed in the above court against the aforesaid defendant, 
and the date fixed in the above suit is 30th April 1962: 

The aforesaid defendant is hereby notified to appear on 
the aboveincnticmed date and lake necessary stoj>N 
personally or through lawyer, failing which the suit will no 
heard ex parte. 

Dated the 11th April 1962. 

SU KUMAR SINHA, Munsif. 

(367—1) 


COMPANY PETITION NO. 148 OF 1961. 

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
Ordinary Original Civil Jurisdiction 

In tin* Matter of Companies Act (1 oi 1956) 
And 


In the Matter of Eagle Plywood Industries (Private) Ltd. 
(in Liquidation). 

Petitioner: Pri/vat Kumar Dutta. 


NOTICE is hereby given that a |K»tition lor winding-up of 
the ahovenamed Company on the I 1th day ol August 1961 
presented to this Court by its creditor Provai Kumar 
Datta ami that the said petition is directed to he heard 
he lore this Ct/url on 14 th May 1962. 

Any Creditor contributory or other persons desirous of 
supporting or opposing the making of an order </n the said 
petition should send to the pctitic/nei ’s Solicitor, notice ot 
his intention signed by him or his Advocate with the name 
and address so us to reach the petitioner’s Solicitor not 
later than five days before the date fixed for the purpose in 
person or by his Advocate. A cop\ of the petit-urn will be 
furnished liy the undersigned to any creditor or contribu- 
tory on payment of the prescribed charges for the same. 

An affidavit intended to he used in oppt/sition to the 
I sd it ion should he filed in CourL and a copy served on the 
Solicitor of the petitioner not less than five days before the 
date fixed for hearing. 


Dated the 16th April 1962. 


IT. K. M1TTER, 
Solicitc/r for the petitioning 
Creditor. 

9 Old Post, Office Street, 
Calcutta. 


(380—1) 


(383 — 1 ) 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 26, 1962 


170 


DISTRICT NADIA 

IN THE COURT OF DISTRICT AND SESSION8 JUDGE, 
NADIA, AT KRISHNAGAR, ARBITRATOR UNDER 
ACT XXX OF 1052 

Arbitration Case No. 7 of 1061 

Nirmalabala Pal and others— Claimants 


versus 

The Stale ol Wed. Denial -Opposite Party 


111 

1 li< * 

ii;0 (< r 

of a 

IMihc, 

turn for the 

detft 

rmination ol 

the 

a III O 

mi 0 

cnlUj 

M’ll.idtlOII 

>ayabl 

0 lor 

the acquisition oi 

the 

( ; 1 1 1 : i 

>t ral 
53, 

sill Vc\ 

Jilut 

Nos 

107, 

108, 

147, 

148, 141), 

150, 

131- 

154, 

55 

1 5(», 

157, 

158, 

100 

1(18-11)5, 

iOo, 

167, 

ids. 

171, 

1 76, 

179, 

180, 

208, 

210, 

211, 218, 

219, 

L'JU, 

22 1 . 

226, 

227, 

228, 

229, 

230, 

231, 

282, 2SM, 

234, 

) < , 

‘MO 

210, 

212, 

24 1, 

245, 

247, 

249, 

252, 254, 

255, 

.'36, 

257, 

250, 

260, 

262, 

263, 

267, 

266, 

208, 270, 

272, 

•»7 1, 


276, 

277 , 

278, 

279, 

283, 

284, 

285 , 280, 

287, 

•> ), 

20l', 

20 \ . 

{i 10, 

305 

Km;, : 

111, 

112, 

:(15, 816, 

320, 

322*, 

{25, 

333, 

331 

. 330. :137, 3:18, 340, 1442, 

344, 

315, 

316, 

350. 

353, 

300, 

363, 

364, 

391, 

.‘HKS, :s!)8, 

399, 

102, 

103, 

107, 

109, 

410 

401 

4(H), 

401, 

411 of mouza 

l)al\f> 

.lim (< 

I Imshpi 

ivra, i 

in isd 

iclion 

list N 

n. 63 

of police-station 

Cl, ill 

.dull. 

distrn 

1, Nadia, 

alleged to 

have belonged 

to 

nhovi 

1 mum 

•d cln 

iman 

,s on the 

dates of 

acquisition 

and 


reqm uLion. 

Names of the Interested parties: 40. Shrimati Uraarani 
Mukherjee, wife of Bihlmti Bhusan Mukherjee, 
41. Santmio'v Mukherjee, son of Bibhuti Bhusan 
Mukherjen of Guptipam, Hooglily, 43. Sital Chandra 
Ghosh, 15. Laksnnkanto Gf.oso son of Satyacharan 
Chose of Swapara Lane, P.O. Bkadreswar, 46. Kali- 
krishiiM Pal, 17. Nimaikrishna Pal, 48. Riidhirkrishna 
Pal, son of Surendninatli Pal Debmohanta of 55 A 
M i ihllt' Road, Entally, Calcutta, 49. Trustees to the 
estate of Swaraswati Trust Estate of Ghoshpara, 
58. Sal\emlranuth Ganguli, 59. Promathanath 
Ganguli, 00. Saehindr&nath Ganguli of Bijpur, 
district 21-Puiganas, 51. Krishnakali Baner- 
joe, 52. Durgadas, son of Nabin Chandra 

Uanerjee, 53. Su rend ran ath Banerjee, son of 
Samaelianm Banerjee of Glioshpara, 61. Ramachit 
Majhi of Chakdah, 63. Khokaram Mondal, son of 
Ramesvur Mondal, Ranaband, Nawpara, Nadia, 
61. Kathuhala Dasi, wife of Girish Bagdi of Lalpur, 
Chakdah, 65. Tulsi Maji, so m of Udav Majhi, 

36. Praiulla Kumar Neogi, 36A. Kiranbala Dasi, 

37. Topshi Majhi, son of tlday Majhi, 37A. Laksmi 
Kanfo Das, son of Brojonath Das of Dakshin Ghosh- 
purii), 66. Hajari Lai Das, son of Banowari Das of 
Roydamia, Madanpur, police-station Chakdah, 
67. Hnridas Bhattacharjee, sc/n of Nalini Bhattacher- 
jeo of Hatisivla, 68. Nikunjabohari Mukherjee, 69. 
Bnmil Bhusan Mukherjee of Halisahar, Barendra 
Gate, 70. flariclas Basil and otlicis, 71. Kameruddin 
Mutislii and others, 72. Takaruddin and others, 73. 
Jnniioiulrn Ghosh and others, 74. Krishnakali Baner- 
jee, son ol Nalini Chandra Batierjee of Muratipur, 75. 
Jugalkmnar De, son of Rajkomar De of Andulberia, 
P.O. Jihnmmgar, 76. Gopikanta Roy, son of Nilkamal 
Boy of 6 Dearson Lane, Calcutta, 77. Jog i ml ran all i 
De, son of Gopaltuvfh De of Jessore Town, 78. Lala 
Satish Chandra Singha, son of Rameswar Singha of 
8 Ramkanlo Mitra Lane, Calcutta. 

TAKE notice that the above case in which I ha*ve been 
appointed Arbitrator lor the determination of the amount 
ol compensation payable for the acquisition on the proper- 
ties mentioned above as per notification No. 15198, dated 
Calcutta, lltli October 1960, Government of West Bengal, 
Land and Land Revenue Department, Requisition Branch, 
has been s**t down on the 7th May 1962, at 10-30 a.m. for 
appeal anre and for filing statement as to what is the fair 
amount of compensation for , the property involved in this 
cam of objection, if any. to the claim and in default of your 
apj ea ranee either in person or by representative on the 
said date the ease will be proceeded with in your absence. 

Given under my hand and the seal of the Court this tho 
4 th day of April 1962. 


K. J. SEN GUPTA, 

District and Sessions Judge, Nadia, 
Arbitrator under Act XXX of 1952. 

[( 324 A - 2 ) 


I Part jj 



SUNIL KUMAR BISWAS, LL.B., intends to l, e ! 
as an Advocate of tho Calcutta High Court. enr °ik<l 


(281^ } 


SANT1 RANJAN OIIAKRABART1, M.Com r Tl 
intends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. Uj^h (^j), 

(282 4 , 


SIIRI HIM ANGSHII MOHAN BANKIUEE, H 1. mt , , 
to he enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High (7 (1If * ll, ' s 

(206—4) 


SIIRI BUATINDR AMOHAN RAY, LL.B, intends to h. 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court 

(21)1-4, 


S1TARAM AGRAWALA, LL.B., intends to be, enrolled 
tui Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(205- 4) 


SU KENDRA SINGH MALIK. LL.B., intends t«, h, 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Q’mnt. 

wilt, 4,1 


SA1LKN SEN, LL.B., intends to bo 
Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court 


eurnllcd as n 


(207-1 


SIIRI PRABIR KUMAR SARANGI, LL.B., intends to b< 
enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court at Calcutta 

(BOV— 4 


MR. MD. ABDUL HAKIM intends to he enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

<30G-4> 


I’HANAB KUMAR GANGOPADHY AY, LL.B.. intends to 
bo otirollod as an Advocate of tlio Calcutta H iy.B Uenrt 

(907— D 


BAN DU RANG STIKORAM BAGATIIEY, W-B intend' 
to bo enrolled ns nil Advocate of the Calcutta Ili^n t 

(909— B 


.)()(; KNUR A KUMAR BHA81N, LL.B. intend 9 t° h 
onrollod as an Advocate of the Calcutta High ton 

( 90#- 11 


SIIRI DTJUG'A DAS KITNDU, I,L B , intends 
nrollud as nil Advocate in tho High Court a 


tu 11 
ilcuttn 

(SlM 1 



1'AitT II] 


TTTE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 26. 1962 


177 


„ lWr MOHAN RAI CHAUDHIJRY, LL.B., intends to 
^ rolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

^0 enrtm* 7 '* 

(319—4) 


SHYAMA CHAR AN GANGOPADHYAY, LL.B., intend® 
to be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(342-4) 


*. nig CHATTERJEE, LL.1L, intends to he enrolled 

1 Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

:is an 1320— 4) 


G V N 1',^ ( HAN DBA B \SI , LL.B., intends to he enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court.. 

(333 1 ) 


sHHl J1TKNDRA CHANDRA SEN, intends to be 
h, i oiled* as an Advocate of the Ouleutta High Court. 

(321 4) 


SUNIL KVM Ml SEN, LL.B , intend:, to he enrolled as 
.in Advocate ot the Calcutta High Com l 

( 354 — 4 ) 


K AL1 KUMAR CHAKR'ABAKTT, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of tlio Calcutta High Court. 

(334 — 4) 


BISWAN ATI! B ANDYOPA DH YA Y, M.Com., LL.B., 

intends to he enrolled us an Advocate, Cal. High Court. 

(355—4) 


\UYYA KUMAR SARKAR, LL.B., intends to ho enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(336-4) 


SH YAM SENDAI? PA TO 1)1 A, LL.B.. intends to be 
enrolled ns an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(350—4) 


SITARAM SFTAPI, LL.B . intends t.o be enrolled ur an 
PKAYAG DAS DA (51 A, LL.B., intends to bo enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

Ad\ooate of the Calcutta High Court. (357—4) 

(336 — 4) 


SUIT AS CHANDRA BASH, LL.B., intends to he enrolled 
j<HRl NITR ABDUL GONI, M.A., LL.B., intends to be as an Advocate of the Calcutta Hipth Court. 
admiHod as an Advocate in the Hijth Court at Calcutta. (.loH— 4; 

(*37—4) 


I’ll A III I AT KUMAR Clf ATTOPADIfYAY, LL.B., intends 

to l><» enrolled ns an Adxoialo ol I lie Calcutta High Court . 

SVAMANANDA MTJK1IOPADH YAY, LL.B., intends to be (3.W-4) 

rolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(338-4) — 


AMARKNDRA NATH BASH, B.L., intends to be enrolls 
Advo<, nto of the Calcutta. High Court. 

(S39-4 


SAXTISEKIl.AB M UKflOPADFIY A Y, LT^.B., inlcnds to 
he < moiled as an Advocate ol the* Calcutta High Court. 


(360-4) 


ANI'KA intends to ho enrolled as an 
ate ,,f t*'o Calcutta High Court. 

(340—4) 


II AKIN ABA YAN PAN DEV, LL.B.. intends to he enrolled 
as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(361 — 4 ) 


^ v ocate^of^.P A 5i AGAHWAL intends to be enroll* 
01 Calcutta High Court. 


SIIK1 IMBINDRA NATFF GHOSH, B.L., intends io F>e 
cniollcd as an Advocate oi the Cahuttn High Court. 

(362-1) 



178 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 26, 1962 


i Part ii 


SATYARANJAN SEN, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. (368—4) 


RAMABTLAS GOSWAMT LL.B. intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. (m _ 4) 


('ll H ATAR. 1 SINGH HI11AWAT, LL.B., intends to bo 
enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

/ nMA A \ 


PUBLIC NOTICE 



.lain ana nirmiHi -*- onu»» V — Pandva 

and Sikarilali Pandya on the 14th of August 1955, had been 
revoked by a Registered Deed of Revocation executed on 
5th October 1961. 

MANGILALL PANDYA. 
HUKUMCHAND JAIN nil(l 
H1RALALL PANDYA. 

62 Nalini Sett Road, Calcutta 7. 

(*74- -D 


(jjOl'AL CHANDRA MUKHOP ADJTY 
to be enrolled as an Advocate oi the 


AY, LL.B., intends 
Calcutta High Court. 


(1171 — 4) 


SHRI BIDESHI RAM, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 


/ own i \ 


SHRI SASANKA SEK11AR MTTKHERJEE 
intends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. 


, M.A., B.L., 

Hi^h Court. 
(373—4) 


PUBLIC NOTICE 

IT is notified for all concerned that the partnership firm 
Messrs. Suraj Bros, of lift Monohardas Street, Calcutta 
between Om Prokash Jain and Surai maf Jain stands 
dissolved, with effect from the 9th April 1962, in as much 
as Om Prokash Jain has left the business since 11th 
November 1958. 

Surajmal Jain will hereafter be deemed to be the 
Proprietor and will he entitled to carry on the business 
either alone, or jointly with somebody. 

113 Mc/nobardas Street. 

Dated Calcutta, the 9th April 1962. 

SURAJMAL JAIN 

(1175-1) 


SAL1L KUMAR KAIt. LL.B., intends to ho enrolled as 
i.n Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


MR M ATI A It RAHMAN TAR A FDA R 1 LL.B. , intends to 
our died as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 


(385—4) 


SHKO SHANKAR S1NG1I, LL.B., intends to he enrolled 
as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. ^ 


ARUPKUMAR RAY, LL.B., intends to 
Advocate ol the Calcutta High ( ourt. 


be enrolled as an 
(387—4) 


KAL1DAS 
enrolled as 


Bll ATTACH A RYYA, LL.B., 
uti Advocate ol the Calcutta 


intends to lie 
High Court. 

(388—4) 


NOTICE 


To The Creditors ol Messrs. Ramanand & Co. Private Ltd, 


AN EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of the 
abovanamed Company has been called for the purpose of 
passing a Special Resolution to the effect that the Company 
cannot by reason of its liabilities continue its business and 
that the Company be wound up voluntarily under tin* 
provisions of section 484(1 )(b) of the Companies Act, 19rt. 


Notice is, therefore, hereby given pursuant to section 
(H)(1) of the Companies Act, 1956, that a Meeting of the 
Creditors of the ahovenamed Company will be ' held at 
Sikdar Para Lane, Calcutta, on Iriday, the 18th day <>■ 
Jav 1962, at 12 forenoon, for the purpose ol considering 

■ ■ a l. la 4*. f ' Al 


il._ 4* 11 linn Jllfllin* 


“THAT the Company cannot bv reason ol ib 
liabilities continue its business and that the ( ompan. 
be wound up voluntarily under the provision of w*rti° 
484(1) (b) of the Companies Act, 1956 ; and that n 
Bhupesh Ran jail BaLsi of 8/2 Hastings Stieet. < aW**' 
he oud is hereby appointed Liquidator lor the pur| <■ 

1. .... u oaHlafl I'Mm mil O'H. 1,101 1 Ol ii'8* 


Dated this 16th day of April 1962. 

liy order ol the Board, 
M. PODDAR, Director, 

For Messrs, lLnnannml A ( 0 
Private Ltd. 


SHRI SASANKA 
hi' enrolled as ail 


BIIUSAN GHOSH, LL.B., intends to 
Advocate of the Cs^lcutta High Court. 

(392 — 4) 


Mtiiii qyaM A PRASANNA RAY CHAUDHURY, LL.B., 

SE* 'l, i .. » «• 


CHANGE OF NAME 

HEREBY declare that henceforward 1 shall ^ k J^, 
shir Nariman Ardeshir instead ot rN0 \. ! , ]stri u.‘ 
ndiwalla, by order of the Chief Presidency 
urt, in my public and private life. 

NOSHIR NARIMAN ARl> fcS 

(382— 1 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 26, 1962 


179 


J'UlT ll] 


ue MATTER OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT, . CENTRAL KANKANEE COLLIERIES (P) LTD. 
IN THc 1913-36 ON LIQUIDATION) 


AND 

, ue MATTER OF THE LEYLAND AND BIRMIN- 
IN t . H H am RUBBER CO. (INDIA) PRIVATE LTD. (IN 

LIQUIDATION) 

hereby civeii [.ursu&nt to soction 208D of tbo 
S0 ,T IC r n mo*nio 8 Act VII of 1913 that a General Meeting 
to** £ a m^ers of the abovenamed Company will be hold 
of 4th May 1962, at 10-30 a.m. at B4 Gillander 

O F « d Caloutta, when the Liquidators will lay before the 
an account of the acts a.nd dealings and ot toe 
o!?.t of the winding up during the year from 22ml 
vi v on to 21 t t February 1962 and a statement in the 
F ,!h'eti form containing the prescribed particulars with 
f^ppot to the position of the liquidation. 

.. pms 0 f General Proxies can be had at the office of tee 
, f Tiers Proxies to be used at the meeting must be 
Sod with the Liquidators not later than 10-30 a.m. in the 
I'lrenoon on the 2nd May 1962. 

Hj (.illander House, Calcutta-]. 

Tf'“ - nd A,,ri ' 1002 R. N. SEN. 

for Sell & Co -Liqi.iu.” n» n 

($77— 1) 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, 1956 

Maroktiana Industries Ltd. (In Members’ Voluntary 
Liquidation). 

OTK'K »s hereby Riven in pursuance o| section 497 that 
Final Meeting of the Members of the abcyvenanied 
omimiiy will be held fH 11 Old Post Office Sti»'°t, ( alenttii. 
nthp 20th dav of May 1902 at 12 noon for the purpose 
t bring an account laid before them showing the manner 
\ ^hich the winding-up has been conducted and the 
ropoit\ of the Cr/mi imv disposal ot and for beamm nnj 
\] lunation tlia-t nun b« civen by the Liquidator am 1 also 
M iloternuning by a Spomal Resolution of the Company 
lip manner in which the books, accounts and documents ot 
tp { 'wipunv and of the Liquidator shall he disposed of 

hr 2-" tli \ pril 1962 

* P N MUKHFRTFA 
Liquidator 

(37* ) 1 


TAKE NOTICE under section 51(5 of the Companies Act. 
1956, that I, Shri P. C. Mukhorjoe, of 65 Pauchauantolla 
Hoad, Howrah, have been uppointed a Members’ Volun- 
tary Liquidator by a Special Resolution of the above Com- 
pany, dated the 11th April 1962. 


P. C. MTJKHERJEE, Liquidator. 


Howrah, 13th April 1962. 


1 — 1 ) 


FORM NO. 151 


(8ee rule 316) 

Companies Aot, 1050 

CREDITOR8’ VOLUNTARY WINDINQ-UP 


Notloe of appointment of liquidator purauant to 
saotlon 516 

Name ol company: Barhaj National Metal and Iron 

industries Private Limited. 

Nature of business: Traders of iron goods. 

Address of Registered Office: 392 G, T. Road (North) 
Salkia, Howrah. 

Name and address of Liquidator. Shri Arun Kumar 
Mukherjee, B.Com., F.C.A., Chartered Accountant, 
No. 37, Indra Biswas R'oad, Oaleiitta-37. 

Date of appointment: 28th day of March 1962. 

By whom appointed: By Shareholders in Extra- 
ordinary General Meeting held on 28th March 1962 
and adopted in Creditors 1 General Meeting held on 
29th March 1902. 


ARUN KUMAR MUKHERJEE, Liquidate! 


Dated the 16th da> of April 1962. 


(390 -h 


IN THE MATTER OF NATIONAL CABLE WORKS LTD. 

NOTH’ K is herein given tiun l»v an order ol tie* H h 
^ourt of Calcutta in the almvc dated t*'o 2nd day of A i ril 
UhVJ. the cajctid ol Rs 5,90,(100 I he ;i» l wc ^ 'i * i j any 
imdrd into 50,000 share's ol R-. 1 0 chc|. was n d >«»d to 
1.25,000 divided into 50,000 ‘ha re* ot IT, 2 nP 
torh 

1 SAMBHLNAl * 7 CHUNPER 

Attorned for the 
abovenamed 

17+h 1962 


BILAS SINGH AND CO. (PR.) LTD. (IN VOLUNTARY 
LIQUIDATION) 


In their meetings, dated 31st March 1962, the Creditors 
and members of Rilas Singh Co. (IV). Ltd., contractors, 
of 11 Old Post Offie Street, Calcutta, lia-ve put the 
Com pan v in voluntary liquidation and have appointed J B. 
Maulik,* M.A., F.C A., of 11 Old Post Office Street, 
Calcutta, as the liquidator 


Dated the 18th April 1962 


J B. MAITLIK, 
Liquidator 

<881-1' 


ivr. a 




No. 17 of 1962 




AISAKHA 6 ] 

THURSDAY, APRIL 26, 1962 


[ SAKA 1884 


CONTENTS: 

Pago. 



State Statistical Bureau — Cost of living indexes, 
Calcutta, and wholesale prioe index 

for the week ending the 14th April 
1962 

Ill — 112 



Calcutta Improvement Trust — Notices 

113—114 


i 

Calcutta Improvement Trust-— Notification . . 

114 



SUPPLEMENT — Official Paper* 

B , No. 304 STATE STATISTICAL BUREAU, WEST BENGAL 

TABLE I 

Coot of living indues, Calcutta and wholesale price index (week ending 14th April 1962) 

All-India wholesale 

Cost of living index — Base : November, 1950. price index*. 


Period. 

t — — 


-A-_ 

Expenditure level (in Rs.) 

. 


— - n 

t 

Base, 

1952-53. 

— 1 

Converted 

with 

November 
1950 as 
base. 


1—100 


101—200 


201- 

r ■' rr > 

-350 


All 

items. 

Food. 

All 

items. 

Food. 

f 

All 

items. 

> 

Food. 


a) 

w 

(3) 

(4) 

(») 

<«) 

0) 

(8) 

W 

January 

93*9 

88*8 

94-1 

88*4 

94*7 

88*6 

. • 


April 

96*2 

90-4 

95*5 

90*1 

95*3 

90*1 

... 


July 

94*0 

89*4 

94*4 

89*5 

94*7 

89*6 


•» 

Ootober 

95*3 

91*6 

95*3 

91 • 4 

95*5 

91*3 

— 

ws# 


>55 January 

« . 

90-7 

84*7 

9W 

84*4 

91*7 

84*5 

• • 

• • 

Apnl 


89*9 

83*0 

90*5 

83*7 

91 *2 

84*0 

88-9 

82*3 

July 

, , 

91*1 

86*6 

91*6 

85 • 8 

92*0 

85*8 

92*9 

86*0 

October 


98*7 

89*7 

93*9 

89*4 

94*0 

88*0 

90*0 

83*0 


January 

.. 

90*9 

84 •« 

9J *0 

84*0 

91*2 

83*7 

96*3 

88*1 

April 

# m 

95*2 

91*6 

94*8 

90*4 

94-8 

89*6 

100*0 

92*6 

July 


99*6 

98*0 

08*7 

96*3 

97-8 

94*7 

108*5 

95*8 

October 

• e 

102*4 

101*3 

100*7 

98*9 

99*4 

96*9 

106*7 

98*8 


’Revised series (Base : 1952*53) and the corresponding converted series 


112 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA UAZbilfc, atku- 26, 1962 


Co»» of living index — Bose s November, 1000. 


▲11-Indie whoW 

price index* 


Period. 


Expenditure level (in Kb.) 


1—100 


101—200 


201—860 


Ban 

1962-58. 


(1) 

8967 January 
April 
July 
October 


8968 January 
April 
July 
October 


1969 January 
April 
July 
October 


8960 January 
April 
Juty 
October 


1968 January 
February 
March 
April 
May 
June 
July 
AugUBt 
September 
October 
November 
December 


8962 January 
February 


Week ending 

17-3-82 

24-3-G2 

31-3.62 

7*4*62 

14*4-62 


i* — ^ 

Ail 

items. 

Food' 

r 

All 

items. 

Food. 

r 

All 

items. 

Food. 


(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(6) 

(«> 

(7) 

(8) 

98 *4 

94-6 

97*0 

91 -9 

99 -2 

90 *3 

107 -8 

100*6 

98*0 

98-9 

96 *5 

97 *0 

93*6 

106 *6 

106*0 

106 *8 

104-1 

108 -0 

109-7 

100*7 

111*9 

107*0 

107*0 

106-7 

104 -0 

106-0 

102*3 

108 -9 

106 -0 

101 *8 

103 *1 

98 *1 

101 *8 

95*4 

106 -u 

106-0 

103-1 

104 *4 

100 -2 

103-2 

97 *0 

107 -4 

109*4 

107 *6 

107*9 

104 -9 

106-7 

102 *0 

114*7 

113-3 

114-3 

Hi -2 

113-3 

109-3 

108-0 

116*2 

103*5 

97 *2 

102 -9 

96 *6 

102 *7 

94*0 

112*3 

106 -8 

100-9 

106*1 

99 *4 

104-6 

98 *2 

111 9 

110*4 

108*3 

109 *2 

106-1 

108 -1 

104 *0 

116*8 

114*6 

116*0 

113*0 

113*4 

111 -6 

111 *0 

119-3 

110 *4 

108 -J 

108-6 

10C -3 

107 *6 

103 -2 

118*8 

110*6 

108*0 

108-9 

106 *2 

107 *9 

103 -3 

120-6 

114*4 

118*9 

112*8 

111-6 

111*6 

109 >6 

124*7 

114*4 

113 *6 

113*3 

111*8 

112*2 

110*4 

126 -3 

109 *7 

106*0 

108*7 

103 -2 

r08-4 

102 *3 

126*6 

110 *6 

106-1 

109*6 

104 *3 

109 -0 

103 *3 

126*7 

110-9 

106-1 

109 *9 

104 *6 

109 -5 

103 0 

127 6 

112*2 

108-2 

111*4 

107*2 

111*0 

100*0 

126*8 

112*1 

107*8 

111*4 

107*0 

111*0 

100*6 

126-3 

113*7 

110*1 

112*7 

109*1 

112*1 

108*4 

126-9 

116*2 

114*1 

116-1 

113*2 

114*2 

112*2 

128*7 

117*9 

116*8 

116-6 

116-7 

116*6 

114-6 

127*4 

118*0 

116*4 

110*6 

116*2 

116*4 

113*8 

124*6 

119*9 

119*7 

118*2 

119*2 

116*9 

116*7 

124*4 

120 *3 

120*4 

118*4 

118-4 

116*9 

116*6 

124 -3 

117*0 

114*6 

116*3 

112*6 

114*1 

111*1 

122*9 

114*4 

110*1 

112*8 

108*8 

112*1 

107*0 

IO« . 

114*3 

109*7 

112*8 

107*7 

112*1 

106*6 

124*3 

116*0 

112*6 

114*6 

110*8 

113*7 

109*8 

123*7 

122*6 

116*8 

112*2 

114*3 

110*4 

113*4 

109*2 

116*6 

112*0 

114*1 

110*2 

113*3 

109*1 


118*0 

115*9 

116*2 

114*0 

115*1 

112:6 

• • 

118*6 

116*9 

117*1 

115*4 

116*0 

114*4 

• • 


Convert^ 

with 

November 
1950 u 

base. 


»> 

w* 

W-l 

10U 

10C-8 


m 
at -6 
m-j 

107 •« 


104 i 
1014 
108 1 
110-i' 


1104 

1114 

1144 

117 -a 


lit' 3 

117- 1 

118- 1 
not 
1100 
1104 
116-2 
118-0 
115'* 
115-2 
115 1 
113-8 


114- 1 

115- 1 


114-8 

113-8 


•Reviaed aerie. (Baa. « 1862-68) and the corresponding converted eeriea. 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 26, 1962 


113 


CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 

ar BOARD of trustees for THE IMPROVE. 
THE B0AKU MENX of CALCUTTA 


under section 43 of the Calcutta Improvement 
NOt Act, 1911 (Bengal Act V of 1911) 


crHEME No. LXVII (BAGHBAZAR STREET TO 
SCHEME, galiff STREET) _ -REVISED 

i The Board of Trustees for the Improvement 
t Calcutta, hereby give notice that Scheme 

I XVII which was first published under section 43 
Calcutta Improvement Act in the “Calcutta 
f jzette’’ on the 29th July 1954 and advertised m 
the newspaper has been revised under section 50 of 

Calcutta Improvement Act and the following 
m difrations have been made. Save as altered here- 
after the scheme as published under section 43 of 
the Calcutta Improvement Act as aforesaid shall 
remain in force. 

,,, The following properties which were scheduled 
, c ; acquisition in Scheme No. LXVII are now 
excluded from acquisition:— 

Name of Street and No. of Municipal Holdings. 

Gopal Mitra Lane — 5. 

Nandalal Bose Lane- -19, 21 A, 23. 

i'Vi The following properties which were scheduled 
for" acquisition in Scheme No. LXVII are now 
deluded from acquisition but scheduled for Jevy of 
betterment fee under provisions of section /SA of 
the Calcutta Improvement Act: 

Name of Street and No. of Municipal Holdings. 

Durga Charan Mukherjee Street— 23, 23 '1. 23/ 2 A, 
23/2B, 24/1A, 24/IB, 25 '1A. 25 'IB, 25 1C, 
25 / 1 D, 25 / IE, 25/ IF and 25/1G. 

Gnpal Mitra Lane — 4, 6A, 7A, 7B and 7C. 

Haralal Mitra Street — 19, 21 A. 21B, 21 C, 21 D, 
21 E, 21F, 21G, 21 H, 21 1, 21K, 21L and 21M. 

Nandalal Bose Lane — 25. 


(c) The following properties are scheduled for levy 
of betterment fee under the provisions of section 78A 
of the Calcutta Improvement Act due to the widening 
of a portion of Uma Charan Mitra Lane (old Haralal 
Mitra Lane). 

Name of Street and No. of Municipal Holdings. 
Uma Charan Mitra Lane (Old Haralal Mitra 
Lane) — 1A, IB, 2, 3 A, 3B and 15. 

- Particulars of the revision, the revised scheme 
P*an and the list of properties excluded from 
acquisition and that of properties scheduled for levy 
of betterment fee under section 78A of the Calcutta 
Improvement Act, on account of this revision may 
oe inspected at the office of the Trust at 10 Netaji 
^jibhas Road, Calcutta-1, on week days between 
" a>rn - and 1 p.m. and copies of such documents 
be obtained on payment of the following fees: — 
Particulars of the revised scheme— Re. 0.25 nP. 
Plan of the revised scheme — Re. 1.00 nP. 
Statement of land excluded from acquisition and 
that of land scheduled for levy of betterment 
fee on account of this revision — Re. 0.25 nP. 


3. Objections to the levy of betterment fee under 
section 78A of the Calcutta Improvement Act oir 
account of this revision will be received up to 16th 
July 1962. 


K. SEN, Chairman. 
Calcutta, the 23rd March 1962. 


SCHEME No. LXXXV (SUBHAS SAROBAR) 

1. It is notified under section 43 of the Calcutta 
Improvement Act that a General Improvement 
Scheme to be known as Scheme No. LXXXV 
(Subhas Sarobar) for the area ot Scheme 1VM 
(Supplementary) in Constituency No. 36 of the 
Calcutta Corporation, to provide for a lake, parks 
and gardens, open space and playgrounds and pro- 
vision therein of recreation building and structures 
and other necessary aids to field and aquatic sports 
including a swimming area and a swimming pool, 
a boat-house, construction of roads, pathways and 
cycle track and other developments, has been 
framed by the Board of Trustees for the Improve- 
ment of Calcutta. 

2. The boundary of the area comprised within 
and affected by the Scheme shown within red 
verge on the plan is as follows: ■ 

On the North: Starting from the north-eastern 
corner of 75 Narkeldanga Main Road running 
eastwards along the southern edge of Narkcl- 
danga Main Road, western, southern and eastern 
boundaries of premises No. 81 Narkeldanga 
Main Road, again eastward along the 
southern edge of Narkeldanga Main Road, 
to its eastern end where it meets the western 
boundary of Calcutta Corporation pumping 
station on New Cut Canal surplus land. 

On the East: From this point running south- 
ward along the western boundaries of canal 
surplus land to a point where it meets the 
western edge of Radhamadhab Dutta Garden 
Lane. From this point running southward 
along the western edge of Radhamadhab Dutta 
Garden Lane to the north-eastern corner of 
No. 58, Suren Sarkar Road. Then westward 
and southward along the northern and western 
boundaries of the said premises to its south- 
western corner. 

On the South: From this point running west* 
ward along the northern edge of Suren Sarkar 
Road, the eastern and northern boundaries of 
45B Suren Sarkar Road, northern and western 
boundaries of 45A Suren Sarkar Road and again 
along the northern edge of Suren Sarkar Road 
to a point situated at a distance of 56 ft. from 
the north-western corner of 21/1 Surah 3rd 
Lane and then running south-westward across 
Suren Sarkar Road to the north-western corner 
of 21/1 Surah 3rd Lane then along the western 
and southern boundaries of the said premises 
to its south-eastern corner, then southwards 
along the western edge of Surah 3rd Lane to a 
distance of 320 ft. then westward to a point 
on the eastern boundary of plot 56 in Scheme 
IVM, situated at a distance of 20 ft. to the 



114 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, APRIL 26, 1962 


south from its north-eastern corner, then north- 
ward along its eastern boundary to its north- 
eastern corner, then westward along the 
northern boundary of plot 56, eastern and 
northern boundaries of plot Nos. 53, 48 and 4/, 
Scheme IVM respectively, and the northern 
boundary of plot No. 45, Scheme IVM, then 
across 1 00 ft. C.l.T. Road to a point on the 
eastern boundary of 38 Badan Roy Lane, at 
a distance of 80 ft. to the south from its north- 
eastern corner, then to its north-eastern corner 
and then westward along its northern boundary 
to the point where it meets the eastern edge 
of Badan Roy Lane. 

On the West: From this point running north- 
ward along the eastern edge of Badan Roy 
Lane to its northern end where it meets the 
southern edge of Suren Sarkar Road, then 
eastward along the southern edge oi Suren 
Sarkar Road to a distance of 244 ft. then across 
Suren Sarkar Road northward along the 
eastern, northern and again eastern edge of the 
Calcutta Corporation passage to its northern 
end, and then across it and along the eastern 
boundaries of Premises No. 34G, 34F and 14E, 
Suren Sarkar Road and 75 Narkcldanga Main 
Road to the starting point. 


3. Particulars and other information relating to 
the Scheme and a plan of the area comprised in the 
scheme may be inspected at the office of the Trust 
at 10 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, between 11 a.m. 
and 3 p.m. on weekdays and between 11 a.m. and 
12 noon on Saturdays. 

All lands required for execution of the scheme 
have already been acquired in connection with 
Calcutta Improvement Trust’s Scheme No. IVM 
(Supplementary). 


Copies of the above document will be delivered 
on application and on payment of following fees:- 

Particulars of the scheme and other informa- 
tion relating thereto — Rs. 0.25 nP. 

Plan of the scheme area — Re. LOO nP. 

4. Objections to the scheme will be received ud 
to 21st Mav 1962. b 

K. SEN, 
Chairman. 

Calcutta, 

The 9th April 1962. 


NOTIFICATION 

Repayment of three per cent. Calcutta Improvement 
trust Debenture Loan of 1937, dated the 30th 
July 1937. 

The three per cent. Calcutta Improvement Trust 
Debenture Loan of 30th July 1937 for Rs. 50,00,000 
is repayable on the 30th July 1962 from which date 
interest on it will cease. Holders of Debentures ot 
this loan should tender their Debentures at the Local 
Authorities Loan Section, State Bank of India. 
Calcutta, at least three weeks before the due date of 
repayment with the following endorsement on the 
back of each Debenture: — 

“Received payment in full of all demand for 
principal and interest hereon. 


Signature of Holder. 
K. SEN, Chairman. 

10 Netaji Subhas Road, 

Calcutta-1. 

The 23rd February 1962. 



Printed and published bv the Superintendent. Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at the 'West Bengal Government. IVevs, Aiipore. 



itsrod No. C207 


APPENDIX TO THE 


(Halnitia 





(iazrttr 


,KHA 0 


THURSDAY, APRIL 26, 1962 


l SAKA 1884 


Special Jury List 

st of persons liable to serve on Special Juries in the High Court at Calcutta for the year 
ensuing from 1st May 1962 pursuant to Act V of 1898 

•mark * .-—Persons claiming exemptions should communicate their dams* and grounds thereof to the Clerk of rhe 
,s soon as possible after service of the summons, and persons summoned and unable to attend for any cause should 
uist', so that if sufficient pause is shown, t lit* Sheriff may l>e directed to summon other Jurymen. 


Names. 

A 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


\bU»t V 

\braham, Abe Joseph 
Vbraham M 
Uiraham Alis 
\clmryya, R N, MA 

Vi lmryva, Senapur Pandurang . . 

V<ldi <’l laud ni Sekhar 

Adilya Nihar Kumar, BA, BL 


Addison Scott, .James M. 
■Vtlliikary. Amarnath 
Vdlukan Sushil Kumar, Bfoin 
M) ('mn A1IB 
Ativan i . Narain Lakhasingh 


Aga, ma(uk) 

Agaiual Kalkrishnan BALLB ACA 

(bond) 

•Wal, S. p., BC'om, LLB, ACA 
Vst, H. 0. 

Atim(-<1 Mumtaz 

Aikat, R M 

Ali Alidiil. MA 

Ali, Iludayet, Mi 

Alphonso, W. Euatraoe 

A>»m R K Mae (Chem Engg) 

‘ " u " Prank Norman St, John . . 


7 aud ’ MA (Econ) 
. Uanttt Krishnan, P G 
^antharam N R 
' llal, »ttpadmanavan T ] 

B T MA(Con 
Aodrews, ]) A 

Anija T R 
4? li,A - R. 

Dara Piraaahak 
^•'wy Allan ArtSmr 


Asstt, Kilburn & Co Ltd 
Ditto 

Asstt Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Sub Editor, Statesman Ltd 
Prof Surendra Nath College 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Asstt Burn & Co Ltd 
Assistant Senior Officer, Life Insurance 
of India, Eastern Zone. 

Director, Bird & Co. Pte Ltd 
Sr Aoett E lily 

Indian Asstt, Mercantile Bank Ltd 


. . 2 Eairlie Place 

Ditto 

12 Mission Row 
4 Chowringhoe Ncpiare 
24-2 Mahatma Gandhi 
lid Cal-!) 

4 Bankshall St. 

12 Mission Row 

’orporation 4 ( 'hittarnnjan Avenue. 

Chartered Bank Buildings 
Ditto 

. . H Netuji Suhhas lid 


Commercial Engr Associated Elect rieal 
(Jnd) Pte Lt d 

Sales Engineer, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 
Asstt , Priccwaqer house Peat & Co 


Industries 13 Rnjendrn Nath 
Mukherjee Road 
31 Chowringhoo Road 
B-4 Ci I lander House 


Assistant, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 
Asstt, I C 1 (Pte) Ltd 
Asstt, Balmcr Lawrie & Co, Ltd 
Asstt, MaeNeill & Barry Ltd 
Prof St Xavier’s College 
Lecturer, Moulana Azad College 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co, Ltd 
Sales Manager, Indian AJluminium Co Ltd 
Asstt Sales Engr Associates! Electrical Industries 
(Ind) Ptde Ltd 

Officer, Karam (.hand Thapar & Bros Pte Ltd 

Br Sales Managr Hindusthan Lever Ltd 

Personnel officer, E Rly 

Asstt Rallis India Ltd 

Sec Officer Tata Iron & Steel Co Ltd 

Stores Asstt Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 

Asstt I C I (India) Pte Ltd 

Assistant I. C. I. (India) Pte Ltd • • 

Director, Union Carbide India Ltd 
Asstt Engg Foreman Imperial Tobacco Co of India 
Ltd 


B4 Giliander House. 

34 Chowringhoe Road 
21 Netaji Subhas Road 
2 FairJie Place 

30 Park St reet. 

8 Wellesley Street 
4 Bankshall Street 

31 Chowringhoe Rd 

Ditto 

25 Brabournc Road. 

1 & 3 Brabourne Road 
E RJy House 

1 f> Hare Street 

23B Netaji SublniH Road 

2 Metcafe St- 
34 ( 1 h>wj* inghee 
34 Chowringhoe. 

1 & 3 Brabotrme Road 
37 ChoWringhee. 


No* Name*. 

34 Antia, M E ,BCoiu 

35 Advani G N, BA 

36 Appadurai, R 

37 Arnold, 0. I. Morris 

38 Asoka, K. 

39 Aston A B 

40 Atal, Narendra Nath 

41 Atherton, John Brain all 

42 Attwood, T. M. 

43 Ayres, MAH 

44 Ayrton, S. S. # BNc, DFH(Lond) . . 

45 Ayyar, P. 1\ 


B 

40 Buehmauu J C 

47 Badyal, H. R. 

48 Bag, Dhirendranath, ma 

49 Bagchi, H 

50 Bagai, 3. 0. mha. (Mioh) 

51 Bagchi, N. B. 

52 Bagchi, Pratul K, msc ll.b. 

53 Bachi, 1‘inaki Ranjan, BCoin 

N 1) Pom 

54 Bagchi, Sourendra N, mao 

55 Bagchi, Sukumar, MSc 

50 Bagga, V. S., B('om 

57 Bahudweji, SC 

58 Baijal, T. N., MCom, LLB 

59 Bahoti, D K, MALLB MBA 

00 Bajpave A 

01 Bakshi, Sudhir Ranjan 

02 Bal Arjya Kumar. MSc 
63 Bala, H. G., BA 

04 Bala, Mali ad ova Suhramauiam, 

MA, LLB. 

05 Balasubramani, M. 

00 Balasubramanian Srivustava 
07 Balakrishnan, P. K. 

OS Ball, Gajendranath, msc 
09 Bainrni, JR 

70 Bancrji, AC 

7 1 Bancrjcc A jit Kumar 

72 Banerjee, Ajit Kumar 

73 Bancrjcc, Ajit Kumar, mso PhD . . 

74 Banerjee, Ajoy Chandra, MA 

75 Banorji, Amarendra Nath, msc . . 

70 Bancrjcc, Amarendra Nath, MA 
LLB 

77 Banerjee, Amiya Bhusan, ma 

78 Banerjee, Anil Baran bsc, 

be (Cal). 

79 Banerji, Anil Kumar, msc 

80 Banerjee, A R 

81 Banerjee, B 

82 Banerjee, B. C.. BSc. BL 

83 Banerjee, Bijoy Bhusan, MA, DPhil 

84 Banerjee, Birendra Nath 

85 Banerjee, Biawes war, MA 

86 Banerji, Biswanath, B«c, BE 

87 Banerjee, B K 

88 Banerjee, Chandi Charan, msc . . 

89 Banerjee, Uhittaranjan, MA 

90 Banerjee, Debendra Nath, MSc 

91 Banerjee, Dilip Kumar 


Style or oalling. Residence or pU^ of 

business. 


Aset Engg Foreman Imperial Toboco Co of India Ltd Ditto 


Officer, Karam Chand Thaper & Co Lid 
Administrative, Guest Keen Williams Ltd 
Diroctor, Shaw Wallace & Co, Ltd 
Engr, Macnoill & Barry 

Acting Dr & Engr International Cmnvustion 


. . 25 Bra bourne R„ H<1 

. . 41 CliowringliH*. 

. . 4 Bank shall Street 

.. 2 Fairlie Place 

(1) 101 Park Street 


Pte Ltd 

Assistant, Baltner Lawrie & Co, Ltd 
Director, G. Atherton & Co (Private) Ltd 
Acctt, Chartered Bank 

Mercantile Asstt Mackinon Mackenzie & Co Ltd 
Engr, The English Electric Company Limited 
Dial. Com. Kupdt, E. Rly 


21 NetajiSubhus Ko a , 

4 Mission Row. 

4 Netaji Suhhas l{ u;lll 

H> Strand Road 
1)3 Uillander House, 

3 Tvoilaghat. Street. 


Asstt Oil Dept Board & Co Pte Ltd 

Sales Engr, Indian lion & Steel Co 
Prof. City College 
Asstt Acctt officer A G Bengal 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson, Ltd 
Statistical Officer, E. Rlv 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Asstt, Aeett State Bank oi India (Park St Br) 


Chartered Bind \\ u \ 
ings 

1 2 Mission Row 
102- 1 Amhemt SthM't 
Treasni \ Bmiduaa 
4 Clive Row 
E. Rly. House 
39 ttanker Ghost ban,, 

1 >il t <* 


Professor, Suroridranath (College 
Asstt, Bird A Co (Pte) Ltd 

Offtg Asstt Contr, Reserve Bank «>{ India 
Ditto 

Officer, Karam Chand Thapar Bros Pte Ltd 
Asstt Secy Indian Alluminum Co Lt<l 
Asstt Opeartion Supdt E Rly 
I>V Assr Assessment Dpt Cal Corpn 

Ditto 

i>y. Asstt., Iron & Steel Conlrollei 
Asstt, Bird & Co (Pte) Ltd. 


21 Harrison lioad 
Ch.irtered Bank 
Buildmus. 

Reset vc Bank. 

Ditto 

25 Brabourne J3u<l 
31 Clmw i Higher ILmo 
3 Koila ( riiat Sinrl 

5 Siuvndr.i Natli Dam 
)<*<• I toad 
Ditto 

33 Netaji Sufilia Kiui 
( I harlrM (| Bunk BiuI.ii^ 


Inspector of Aeeounts, Port Commissioners 
Br Acctt Hindusthan Leaver Ltd 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson, Ltd 
Prof, St Xavier’s College 
Asstt, Maoneill & Barry Ltd 
A P O E Rly 

Branch Asstt Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 
Inspector of Accounts, Port ( dmmissionors 
Prof. Presidency College 
Lecturer in History, St. Paul’s College 
Professor. Surendra Nath College 

Jr Ex officer. Bengal National Chamber of Coinmeree 

Lecturer, Moulana A/ad College 
Asstt Mains Engr, C E S C Ltd 

Lecturer, City College 

Asstt, Shalimar Paint, Colour Varnish Co Ltd . . 
Ditto 

Asstt Supdt, Central Tea Board 

Dy Contr of Examinations, University of Calcutta . . 

Sub Acctt State Bank of India (Park St Br) 

Professor, St Xavier’s College 

Jr Asstt Architect, Works and Buildings Dept 

Asstt I C I (India) Pte Ltd 

Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Prof Bangabasi College 

Prof City College (Evening) 

Mg. Director, A. W. Figgis & Co Private Ltd 


15, Strand Bead 

1 & 3 j .dtn.n fl< till 
4 Clive Bow 

30 Park St net 

2 Pan hr Bln< c 


H L5I\ LLoiim 

2 M. I « all* 

15, Strand 1* rul 
Mi- 1 , Collcgr St net 
33/1 Amber t StrcH 
24 2, Mahatma (kw 
Road. 

1>-1 1 Mission lh.M M 1 
sioii 

8, Wellesley Street 
Victoria House, BIn^ 


larc. 

( *rst. Strrd 
mgr 

bourn'* 

SC- 


dmg> 

l)C<‘ 

i,o.» 



Namti, 


3 


Ko. 

92 

93 
9* 
9f) 

96 

97 
9H 
99 
CXi 

()] 

02 

03 

04 

of) 

»t> 

17 

IS 

19 

(I 

1 


Banerjee, Dhirendra Nath 
Banerjee Qauranga Nath, M A . . 
Banerjee, Gobinda Chandra mso 
Banerjee, Hari Charan 
Banerji, Haricharan, ma 
Banerjee, Hainan ta Kumar, BCom 
Banerji, Himangsu, msc 
B anerji, Jnan Kan j an 
Banerjee, Jogendra Kumar 


lili 

1 2U 
121 

122 

123 


134 

13:, 

120 


Banerji. J. M. 

Banerjee, Jyotish Kanjan ,BABT 
Banerjee, K. C 
Banorjt«, K K 
Banerjee, Kalipada, ma 
Banerjee, KamaJakanta 
Banerji, Kalyan Kumar, ma 
B anerjee, Kama) Ch, MOom 
Banerji, Kanak, ma 
Banerjee, Keslmblul 
Banerji, Kiranmaj', amer, bee 

Banerjee, M., MA. in Economics 
Banerjee, M., BA 
Banerjee, Mukhanlal, mho 

Banerjee, Malays MA 
Banerjee, Maniudra Bhutan 
Banerjee, Maniudra Nath ma, li.b 
Banerjee, N. B. 

Banerjee, Nani Gopal, M 8 e 
Banerjee, Nilkanto, BCom 
Banerjee, NinnaJ Ch, BCom 
CAIIB. 

Banerji, Nirmal Chandra, ma 
Banerji, Nripendra Kumar, 

KE(CaI.), AMIK mrsh (Lond) 
am Inst. F. ( Lond) 

Bunerjeo, P. C. 

Banerjee, p. (J 

Banerjee, Phanindra Nath, be . . 


Style or oalUag. 

Asstt, The Indian Standard Wagon Co Lt 

I>y License offr License Dept Corpn of Cal 

Prof, Bang&basi College 

Supvr Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corpn 

Prof, Bangabasi College 

Staff Asstt the Chartered Bank 

Lecturer, Presidency College 

Inspector of Accounts, Port Commissioners 

Asstt Mains Engr, CESC Ltd 

Dy Chief Com Supdt 

Manager Orient Lougmans’ Ltd 
Div Engr, E. Riy 
Asstt Acctt officer, A-G Bengal 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Asstt Sales Dept Indo Burmah Petroleum Co Ltd 
Staff Asstt, State Bank of India 
Supdt (Offtg), R. p. of India 
Professor, Scottish Church College 
Asstt Calcutta claims Bureau 

K "fiXi. dr*** *•*»«-' 

Assistant Accounts Officer, Iron and Steel Control.. 
Asstt Acctt, Officer, Iron & Steel Control 
Lecturer, Calcutta Technical School 

Lecturer Eeon, St. Paul’s College 
Asstt, Jute Mills Deptt, Bird & Heilger 
1 rofessor. City College (Commerce) 

I>y Controller of Stores K. R]y. 

Lecturer in Mathematics, St Paul’s College 
Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 
Supdt, R B of India 

Professor, City College (Com Dept) 

Inspector of Boilers, W Bengal 


Hiincrjcc, Probodh Ch 
Baiierjiv. Prasanta 
Uancrjce, Prasid Kumar, MSc 
1 inner joe, Pralap Kumar. BCojij 
Baiifrjee. p 

R (j 

Banerjee, ltabipada, BSc BT 

"S, *«“• "*■ 

baju*rje<». Ram Sundar, Mac. 
hanerji. Ran jit Kumar 

Baiu rj tT< n ft 

hanerjee, $ 
hunorji, S. B., ba 

liuiHTjeo, S. K. 

^'“-rjeo, 8 . K., ba 
^“erjee, fi. K 
(India) 

S M ,BCom 


2n 

39 

3u 

31 

32 

33 


Asstt Controller of 8 toms, E. Rly 

Asstt p Officer, E. Rly 

Diet Engineer, Mains Deptt, C E 8 C Ltd 

Asstt Harrisons & Crosfield Ltd 
8ub Editor Statesman Ltd 
Lecturer, Presidency (College 
Staff Asstt State Bank of J ndia 
Asstt Engr, Supdt E Rly 
Asstt Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 

Np] Olhr for education of Backward (’lasses Dire, 
torate oi Education W Bengal 

Accounting Asstt, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 


Residence ot plaoe c i 
business. 

12 Misson Row. 

. 5 S N Bancrjte Road 

• 19 Scott Lane 

dl Dalhousie Square 
19, Scott Lane 
4 Netaji Subhas Rd 
B6-1, College Street 
15, Strand Road 
Victoria House, Chow- 
ringhee Square 
Eastern Rly House 

17 Ohittaranjan A vonut 
E. Rly House. 

Treasury Buildings 

39 Sankar Chose Lane 
GiJlander House 
3, Strand Road 
8, Council House Street. 
3, Cornwallis Square 
• r > & 7 Netaji Subbus Rd 
b, Mission Row 

33 Netaji Subhas Road 
* 33 Netaji Subhas Road 

110 Surendra Nath 
Banerjee Road. 

3.3/1 Amherst Street. 

■ Chartered Bank Buildgs. 

13 Mirzujmr Street 
. Eastern Railway House 

* 33/1, Amherst Street 

• 8, Council House Street 
8, Council House Street. 

13, Miry. apore Street 
1, Hastings Street 

Eastern Railway House 
E Rly House. 

Victoria House, Chow- 
ringhee Square 

0 Church Lane 

4 ( ho wr inghee Square 
80/1 Co liege Street. 

3 Strand Road 
E Rly House 

4 Bankshall Street 

1 Ha slings Street 

0 ( -hureh Lane. 


BanM 'j<*,SNBSc 


. Lecturer, Presidency College 

Director, Imperial Tobacco Co of Tndia, Ltd 

Asstt I O I (Jdnai) Pte Ltd 

Asstt, I C I (India) Pte Ltd 

Acctt, Reserve Bank of India 

Asstt Com Supdt E Rly 

Asstt, I C I (India) Pte Ltd 

Credit Manager, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 

Engineer, Indian Aluminium Co, Ltd 

Dy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports 
Controller of Imports and Exports 


. . 80/1 College Street. 

.17, Chowringhee Road 
34 Chowringhee 
. . 34 Chowringhee. 

. . 8, Council House Street 

3 Koilaghaf Street 
. . 34 Chowringhee. 

b, Church Dine 
• - 31 Chowringhee Road 

4 Esplanade East 
Ditto 



4 


N&flute. 


146 Banerjee, S. N. 

147 Banerji, S&ilandra Nath, ass, 

AIEE, A Ilist P, MSC 

148 Banerjee, Salil Kr, MSc 

149 Banerjee, Saukari Prasad, MA . . 

150 Banerjee, Ban tosh Kumar 

151 Banerjee, 8anti Sekhareswar 

152 Banerjee, Santosh Kr, MA 
1511 Banerjee, Satchidananda 

154 Banerjee, Satyendra Nath 

155 Banerji, Satish Chandra, ma 

156 Banerjee, Sudhir Kumar, BCom 

157 Banerjee, Sudhindra Nath 

158 Banerjee, Suhas Ranjan, msc 
150 Banerji, Sukumar, msc 

160 Banerjee, Sukumar, MA 

161 Banerjee, Susobhan, msc 

162 Banerjee, Sukhamoy, be*;, 

bme. 

163 Banerjee, S R 

164 Banerjee, Sunil Chandra, G.l. 

Mech (Bond) namie (India). 

165 Banerjee, SC 

166 Banerjee, Tapan Kumar, ma 

167 Banerjee, T. K., 

168 Banerji***, Japonath. MA 

169 Banerjee, Ushanath, MA 

1 70 Baptiste, E K 

171 Bapt.v, A F 

172 Borai, Mohan Chan<l, MSc 

173 Baral, C 

174 Barat ,N K 

175 Barham, II. L. 

176 Barker, F. R. J. 

177 Barrett, Arthur Hugh 

178 Barry, P St J S 

179 Barsah J K 

180 Bartley, D J 

181 Barua, Bari mini Nath, ba 

182 Banach, Ahani Kumar, DEE 

183 Basak, Bijoy Shankar, M St- 

184 B&sak, Itahindra Nath 

185 Basil, A 

186 Basu, Abhijit 

187 Bose, A. K. 

188 Basu, A K 

189 Bose, A. K, MSe 

190 Basu, A. K., ma, wr„ ca r in 

191 Basu, Amal Kumar, MA 

192 Basu, Ainarendra Kumar, Dip 

Elect. Engr, AM1E. 

193 Basil, Amiya, MA ELB 

194 Basu, Amiya Nath, BSe, BE 

195 Basu, A. L., aca 
* 196 Basu, A. R., msc 

197 Basu, Amujaksha 

198 Basu, Anil Kumar 

199 Basu, Anil Kumar, licom 

200 Bose, Arun, ma 

201 Basu, Asunanda, BME 

202 Basu, Asim Kumar, ma., i.lb. 

203 Basu, Ashim Kumar 

204 Basu, Ashim Kumar 

205 Basu, Ashit Kumar, BCom, 

Chartered Aectt . 

206 Basu, Arya Bhusan 

207 Basu, Atindra Nath, MA 

208 Basu, Atindra Kumar, BGom 

209 Basu, Basanto Kumar, bsc 

210 Basu, Bhivpendranath , BA, ACA 

211 Basu, Bhupendra Nath 

212 Basu, Bibhofci Bhusan, MAAITB 

213 Basu Bimal K, IACAIIB 

214 Basu, Biresh Chandra, ma 


Style or oafllng. 


ftentAanoe or place of 
business. 


Dist Engineer, E. Riy. .. Eastern Railway House 

A sett Engineer, Associated Electrical Industries 6, Mission Row 
(India), Ltd 

Ditto . . Ditto 


Section Officer, Tata Iron & Steel Co Agent’s Office 
Sub Acott Stato Bank (Park St Br) 

Asstt Engr, Cal. Tramways Co Ltd 
Ditto 

Asstt Baboock & Wilocox of India Ltd 
Asstt Burn & Co Ltd 
Prof, Bangabasi College 
Asstt , Bank of Baroda Ltd 

Supdt Shipping Associated Electrical Industries 
(India) Pte Ltd 
Professor, Vidyasagar College 
Prof, Bangabasi College 
Prof Bengabasi College 
Professor, Vidyasagar College 

Engineer- in -charge, Associated Electrical Industries 
(India) Private Ltd. 

Asstt I C 1 (Tndia) Pte Ltd 

Inspector of Smoke Nuisance, Directorate Smoke 
Nuisance. 

Asstt Oil Dept Bird & Co Pte Ltd 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Administrative 1 . Guest Keen Williams Ltd 
Ditto 

Prof. City College (Evening) 

Ditto 

Asstt Rhe South Brithisli Insurance Co Ltd 
Ditto 
Ditto 
Ditto 

Asstt, Jardine Ilandorson Ltd 
Director, A. W. Figgis & Co. Private Ltd. 

Asstt Balmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Asstt A W Figgeis & Co PL* Ltd 
Ditto 

Office Asstt Advertising Deptt Imperial Tobacco Co 
of India Ltd 
A A O, A-G *s Office 

Electrical Inspector, J )i red orate ol Electricity ... 
Bengal 


23B Netaji Subhas 1 toad 
Queens Mansion 
P4 Mission Row Kxtn 
Ditto 

1 & 3 Braboume Rd 

12 Mission Row 
19, Scott Lane 
India Exchange 

13 Rajendra Nath Mu- 
kberjee Rd 

39, Sankar Ghoso Lane 
19 Scott Lane 
25/1 Scott Lane 
39 Sankar Ghose Lane 
6 Mission Row 

34 Chowringhee 
60B Chowringhee Road 

Chartered Bank Build mg 
39 Sanker Ghost* l^ane 
41 Chowringhee 
Ditto 

102/1 Amherst St 
Ditto 

10 Netaji Suhlms Rd 
I )itto 
Ditto 
Ditto 

4 Clive Row. 

D6 Giilander’a House 
21 Netaji Subhas Rd 
D-0 Gi Handel House 
Ditto 

37 Chowringhee 

Treasury Buildings 
I Haris! i Mukheijee Hd 


Asstt Prol, presidency College 
Asstt Maeniell &, Barry Ltd 

Mercantile Asstt Mackinon Mackenzie & Co Pte Ltd 
Asstt personnel Advertising Deptt Imperial Tobacco 
Co of India Ltd 

Superintendent, Bengal Chaml>er of Commerce and 
Industry. 

Asstt Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Prol, Surendra Nath College 
Banking Officer, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Tata Iron <fe Steel Co Agent’s Office 
Mains Engr, C ESC Ltd 


86/ 1 , ( Jollege .Street . 

2 Fairlie Place 
16 Strand Road 
Ditto 

Royal Exchange 

12 Mission Row 
24/2 Harrison ltd- 
8, Council House Street 
23B Netaji Suhhas Read 
Victoria liousc 


Dev Officer, State Bank of India 
Deputy Cli Engr, Mart in Bum Ltd 
Asstt, Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co, Ltd 
Asstt Controller, Stationery Office 
Offtg. A.T.M., H.O., Port Commissioners 

Asstt B B & J Constrn Co Ltd 

Asstt, London & Lancashire Ins Co Ltd 

Prof, Bangabasi College 

Engr Babcock & Wilcox of India Ltd 

Officer, Lloyds Bank, Ltd. 

Aectt John Thompson (I) Pte Ltd 
Acctt John Thompson (Ind) Pte Ltd 
Asstt Acctt, Indian Cable Co Ltd 


3 Strand Rd 
Mercantile Buildings. 
16, Strand Road 

3 Church Lane 
15 Strand Road 
P-13 Mission Row Lxin 
2 Fairlie Place 

19 Scott Lane 
Ditto 

29 Netaji .Suliha* Hoad 

4 Fairlie place 
4 Fairlie Place 
9 Hare* Street 


Acctts Asstt International Combustin (I) Pte Ltd 
Ditto 

Asstt Indo Burm&h Petroleum Co Ltd 
Assistant, Gillanders Arbuthnot & Co, Ltd 
As#t, Gilianders Arbuthnot & Co Ltd 
Acctt, Anderson Wright, Ltd 
Indian Amtt Mercantile Bank 
Sub Acctt R B of India 
Professor, City College (Com Dept) 


Street 


House 


louse- 


ubhas 

House St** 



No. 


Names. 


O 

Style or calling. 


>ir> Basil, Biros Chandra, Boom., 
Dip. sw.. Cal., amtia., 
asie., FBBcon. s. (Lond.) 

*l<> Basu, Birendra Nath (Dr.) msc 
p.Phil. 

»17 Basu, Chittaranjan, msc 

2is Basu, Chittaranjan, bsc., be., 
amie. 

Basu, Dwipendra Kumar, msc 
jjo Basu, Harendra Nath 
> L >| Basil, Hemendra Nath, MSc 
mo Basu, Homan ta Kumar 
yv] Basu, Harishkesh 
Basu, Jagat Kishore 
]->■) Basu, Jatiprasad, Mcom 
M(| Basu, Jitondra Nat h, MA 
121 Basu, K. C. 

12 s Basil, Kalidas, MA 

.>20 Basu, K K 

> 3 <> Basu, Kamal Kumar 

>3 [ Basu, Kumar Sankar 
>32 Basu, L K ,BA 
IX\ Basu, Monojit ,MA 
>34 Basu, Mihir Kumar, msc 
! 3f> Basil, Mihir Ranjan, BA 

130 Basil, Mukul Ranjan 
!37 Basu, Murari Mohan, BCom 
!3S Basu, Narendra Nath 
!30 Basu, Nildari, K. 

!40 Basil, Niroj K, BCom AGA 

!4I Basu, N PK 

!4J Boso, Prabir Kumar 

143 Basu, RK 

144 Basu, R K 

■4o Bose, Rabindra Kumar, use, 
i>fh (London), amiee, 

40 Basu, Rabindranat h 
47 Basu, Rashbehari 
4K Basu, S. 

49 Basu, S 

150 Basu , 8. N., MSc 

Bose, Sailondra Nath, bsc, 
amik (Ind.) 

'f Basu, Salil Kumar, BEL 
® Basu, Salit Kumar 

*^4 Basu, Sam 

" M Basu, Samarendra Kristina, ma . . 
,)f) Basu, Samir Kumar, BCom ACA 

0< Basu, Sanjit Kumar, DFH 
Graduate IEE 

jH Bami, Sauransu, ba, aca 
59 Basu, S K 

0,1 Kaau, S. K., MA (Com), BA 
Basu, S&roj Kumar, msc 
02 Basu, Sarajandu ,BSo 
? ® 09e < Satyapriyn 

; ***• to&M&mUt 


Asstt., Bengal Chamber of Commerce 

Asstt Professor, Presidency College 

lecturer , Surondra Nath College 
Inspector of Boilers, Directorate of Boilers 

Prof. City College 
Asstt, Bird & Co, Ltd 
Prof City College (Evening) 

Supervisor HongKong & Sanghai Banking Corpn . . 
Head Clerk Metal Deptt Martin Burn Ltd 
Asstt, Balmer Lawrie & Co, Ltd 
Professor, City College (Com Dept) 

Auditor, Eastern Railway 
Dy Financial Adviser, E. Rly 
Asstt. Professor, Presidency College 
Asstt Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 

Asstt- Kngr, Braithwaite Burn & Jessop Construe- 
tion Co Ltd. 

Asstt Calcutta Claims Bureau 
Asstt Iron & Stool Con toller 
Asstt Dr of Publicity, Home (Pub) Dept 
Lecturer, Presidency College 
Dy License Officer, Corpn of Calcutta 

Kngr Babcock & Wilcox of (Ind) Ltd 

Indian Asstt Mercantile Bank Ltd 

Supervisor, Rallis India Ltd 

Asstt, Macneill & Barry 

Partner Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 

Mercantile Asstt Mackinon Mackenzie & (Jo Pto L(d 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co, Ltd 

l list Com Supdt E Rly 

Asstt I Cl (India) Pte Ltd 

Regional West Main Dept. Engineer, C E S C Ltd . . 

Acet t, International Combustion (India) Pte Ltd . . 
Asstt Industrial Deptt, Bird & Heilgers 
Asstt, I C I (Pte) Ltd 
Asstt Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Prof, Surendranath College 
Shift Charge Kngr, C K S C Ltd 

Asst t , Mains Kngr, C E S C Ltd 

Asstt Engr Associated Ele ctrieal Industries (India) 
Pte Ltd 

Coach Drawing Offices Jessop & Co 
Professor, Vidyasagar (College 
Asstt A/cs officer Lt Rly Martin Burn Ltd 
Asstt Sub Station Engr 

Assistant, Gillanders Arbuthnot A Co, Ltd 
Com Publicity Officer, E Rly 
Asstt, Supdt, Central Tea Board 
Lecturer, City College 

Supdt of Surveys Cal Improvement Trust / 4 

A«*fct Macneill & Barry Larf * • 

Btstt * Qo Ltd ** 


Residence or place of 
business. 

. 6, Nctaji Subhas Road 

86-1, College Street 

24, Harrison Road 
1 Hastings Street 

102- 1 , Amherst Street 
Chartered Bank Building 
102/1 Amherst St 
31 Dalhousei Square 
12 Mission Row 
21, Nctaji Subhas Road 
13, Mirzapore Street 
16 Strand Road 
E Rly House. 

86/1 College Street 

12 Mission Row 

P13, Mission Row Extn. 

& 7 Netaji Subhas Rd 

33 Netaji Subhas Ril 
Writers’ Buildings 
86-1, College Street 

5 Surendranath Banerjce 
Road. 

1 & 3 Brahourno Rd 
8 Netaji Suhlias Rd 

1 6 Jflare St reet. 

2 Fairlic Place 

B-4 ( iillander IJ ouse 
16 Strand Road 
4 Bank shall Street 

3 Koilaghat Street 

34 Chowringhoe 

Victoria House, Chow- 
ringhee Square. 

101 Park Street. 

Chartered Bank Bldgs. 
34 Chowringhce Road 

4 Clive Row 

24/2 Harrison Road. 
Victoria House, Chow- 
ringhee Square. 

\ ictoria House. 

13 Kujcndra Nath Mu- 
khorjoe Roail 

63 Netaji Subhas Road 
39 Sankar Ghose Lane 
Mercantile Buildings 

Victoria House, Chow- 
ringhcc 

(’live Buildings 
Esplanade Mansion 
27 & 29 Brabourne Road. 
102-1, Amherst Street 
10 Netaji Subhas Rd 
St Fairlie Phto* 

Iff Utmiort Be m 



6 


No. Names. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or pla ee ^ 
business. * 


265 Basu, Snebendu 

266 Ba.su Sudin Prakash, BSe 

267 Basil Nudhariflu Kumar 

268 Hasu, Nu jit Kumar, MSc . f 

266 Baeu, Simil Chandra, msc, 

270 Basil, Umashankar 

27 1 Basu, Sushilkumar, msc 

272 Basil, T K ,MA 

275 Basil, Tapan Kumar, MSn 

274 Basil, Sunil Kumar, BA 

275 Basil Chowdhury, Debiprosad MSr* 

276 Batabyal, Kumarendro Nath 

277 Batabyal, Santosh Kumar, MA . . 

278 Batturst, C M A 
276 Batra, P. N. 

2S0 Baxi, Gopal Ch. 

281 Baksi, Sunil Kanti, use, oa, 

iib 

2 82 Bavdakar, Rarnosh Shripad 

283 Bcddoe E C 
2S4 Bed char, A LI 

285 Bennett, William Malcolm 

286 Ban n ton, C K 

287 Belehar, VC 

288 Bora, Sibram, Msc 

289 Bes, J. E. 

290 Beit, W- D. L. 

291 Bertram, R. G. H. 

292 Bhadra, M. K., ma 

295 Bhaduri, Param Nath, msc (Oal.) . . 


Asstt, Jardine Henderson & Co., Ltd 
Acct-t United Bank of India 
Jr Asstt Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 

Lecturer, Presidency College 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Dit to 

Prof, Bangabasi College 
Prof St Xavier’s ( College 
Lecturer, Moulaiia A/.ad College 
Asstt Ditto 

Lecturer in Chemistry. St. Paul’s College 
Asstt Accounting Supdt, The Imperial Tobacco Co, 
Ltd 

Prof, City College, Com Dept 

Director, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 

Offg 2nd Asstt Conservator, Port Commissioners . . 

Inspr. of A/os., H.O., Port Commissioners 

Sub -Accountant, Chartered Bank of India 


4, Clive Row 

67 A Netaji Subhas k 
4 Fairlie Place 

86/1 College Street. 
39 Sankar Ghosc La m 
Ditto 

19, Scott Lane 
50 Park St reet 
8 Welled y Street 
Ditto 

55/1 Amherst Si root. 
37, CliowTinghee 

13 Mirzapore St i eel, 
4 Batikshall Street 
15, Strand Bead 
15 Strand Road 
4 Netaji SubhasKoa 


Mangr, Heatly & Gresham Ltd 
Ditto 

Asstt Jardine Henderson Ltd 

Covenanted Officer National & Graindlays Bank . . 
Lloyds Branch 

Acett Imperial Tobacco Co of India 
Mains Jointer C ESC Ltd 
Professor, Vidyasagar College 

Secy, Chief Acctt. Associated Eleel Industries . . 
Pte Ltd 

Aotg Acctt, Eastern Bank Ltd 
Asstt, T C 1 (Pte) Ltd 
Professor, Bangabasi College 
Professor, Presidency Coiiege 


31 Chittaranjan Avru 
Ditto 

4 Clive Ron 

29 Netaji Nubian. K<1 

37 Chow i ring lice 
Victoria House 
39 Sankar Ghosc Lam 
6, Mission Row 

14 Netaji NuhbasRoj 
34, Chowf inghee Ro;y 
19 Scott Lane 
86-1, College Street 


294 

295 

296 

297 

298 

299 

300 

301 

302 

303 

304 


305 


306 

307 

308 

309 

310 

311 

312 

313 

314 


315 

316 

317 

318 

319 

320 

321 


Bhagat, Kamal Narain 
Bhngat Vimal 
Bhanduri, B. 

Bhamlari, Sripal ('hand 
Bhandari Cap! S L 
Bhandari, J. M. ASIA A 
Bhandari, S S 
Bhanja, S S ,BA 
Bhar Dwijendra N 
Bhar, J N 

Bhargava K. K., (Dr.) MSC, PhD 
Bliargava, Kajlash Prasad 


Asstt., Corritt Moran & Co. Private Ltd. 

Asstt .lames Warren & Co Ltd 

Asstt,, Bird Hedgers 

Asstt, Macneil] & Barry, Ltd 

Cargo Supdt Seindm Steam Nanigation Co Ltd 

Acct t , Mackirnm Mackenzie 

Asstt, Kill >u in & Co Ltd 

AAO. DAG P & T 

Suprr Hong Kong Shanghai Banking Corpn 
Asstt, Indian Iron &, Steel Co Ltd . . 

Hd. Sugar Technologist, Karam Chand Thapar 
& Bros Pte Ltd. 

Director & Secy, In ternational Combustion (India), 
Ltd 


9 Mission Row 
31 Chovmnghrf lk| 
Chartered Bank jlldf 
2, Fairlie Place 
33 Netaji Suhhas Ld 
16, Strand Road 
2 Fairlie Place 
7 Koilai r hat Street 
31 Daihousie Sijiian 
1 2 Mission Bm\ 

25 Brftburnl Roark 

101, Park Street 


Bhargava, Kamesh Prasad 
BA AC A (Lond)(Ind) 

Bhaskuran, S. 

Bhat, Keshab Datt, ma 
B hat, V- S., BSe (Bombay) 
Bhatia, Inder Nath 
Bhatiani, A. S. 

Bhatnagore, G K 
Bhatnagar, S S, BSc MSc 
Bhatnagar Shards Bhusan 

Bhattacharjee, A., MA 
Bhattachorjee, Aehintapriya, MA 

Bhattacharjee, A K, DSE D Phil 
PRS 

Bhattacharjee, A. K. 


Partner Price Waterhouse 
Peat & Co 

Journalist, Statesman 

Professor, St Paul’s College 

Sec Officer, Tata Iron & Steel 

Asstt, Bird & Co, Ltd 

Asstt Engr, E. RIy 

Asstt Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 

Operation Asstt Standard Vaccum Oil Co 

Asstt Engr Associated Electt Industries (Ind) Pte 
Ltd 

Prof, Surendra Nath College 
Prof City College Evening 
Prof Surendranath College 

Assessor, Assessment Deptt, Corpn of Calcutta . . 


Bhattacharjya, Amal, ma . . Asstt Professor, Presidency Colloge 
Bhattacherji, Amal Kumar, MSc Acott, State Bank of India 
Bhattacharjya, Amiya Charan, ba Sub' Acctt, Reserve Bank of India 


B-4 Gilhuuh i Huiihc 


4, Chowringhee N»|i. 
33-1, Amherst Street 
23B Netaji Subhas K* 
Chartered Bant Bui 
ings E Rly R ,)ljse ' 
Ditto 


6 Church Lane 
13 Rajcndra N«»h # 
kherjee Road 
24 Harrison Bern! 
102/1 Amherst Street 
24/2 Mahatma (kiiull 11 
Rd . 

5 Sucndranath 

Road. 

86-1, College Street 


Mansion^ 

cmncil Vs***** 



Names. 


7 


Style or oalling. 


Residence or place 
business. 


Bhat-tacharjee, Ananthanath, ma 
tfhattaoharjya, Anil Kumar, ma 

Bh.it tacharjee, Bhabadeb, ma 
ghattacharyya, Bidya Bhusan 
BME AMlE(Ind) 

Bliat tacliaryya, Bhibhuti Bliusan, 
MSc(Cal) AMIE 
Bhattacharya, Bislmupada, ma 
B hattneharyya, Budhadeh, MNc 
Bh.it tacharjee, Debesh, MA 
Bli.it tacharjee DN 
Bhattacharjeo, Gouri Kanta, msc 
Bhatt srharjeo, Guru Das, ma 
B ha-t tacharjee, (J. K. 

Bhat 1 aeha-rjce, Haripada 
Bhattarherjec, llarsh Nath 
Bhattaoharyya, Jagadish, MA 
Bhat tacharjee, Ja-gabandhu, BA 
Bliatlncharjee, Jibesh, MA 
Bliattacliaryya, Jibcsli Ch, MSe . . 
Bliattacliaryya, K 
Bhat tacharjee, Kailashnath (T>r.) , 

M.A,T).PHIt< (OAL.) 

Bhflttacharjya, Katyanidas, ma 
B hat tacharjee Kalidas, BA 
Bliaf taeharyya, Kshitipati 


Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Professor, Presidency College 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Loci Calcutta Technical School 

Eugr & Salesman Heat ly Gresham Ltd 

Prof, Bangabasi College 
Demons St Xavier's College 
Led Gornka College of Coin A: Business 
Sec y to G M 10 R ly 
Professor, Vidynsa-gar (College 
Professor, Scottish Churc h College 
Asstt, 1C1 (Pte) Ltd 
dr Asstt Gladstone Lyall A: Co Ltd 
Asstt Calcutta Claims Bureau 
Prof, Bangabasi College 
Eire Supdt- Caledonian Insurance Co 
Prof, City College, Coni Dept-. 

Prof City College (Evening) 

Marcantile Asstt- Mackinon Mackenzie- Co Ltd 
Asstt Prof, Presidency College 

Asstt- Prof, Presidency College 

Sr Hd Asstt Dept of Health VV B Medical (Hi) 

Asstt- Industrial Dept Bird & Co Pte Ltd 


Bhattaoharyya, Malin Kumar, ba. Sub-Aeett, Reserve Bank of India 
Bhat tacharjee, Manindra Nath, ma Asst-t. Audit officer, Eastern Railway 
Bhat tacharjee, N . . Asstt Labour Commissioner West Bengal 

Bhat tacharjee, Nirnial .. Asstt .James Warren & Co Ltd 

Bhat tacharjee, Nirmal Krishna, Engr, .J. H. Fenner & Co (India) Ltd 
BML (Hons), G 1 Mech E (Lond). 

Bhatt-acharjya, Noni Gopal, ma . . Professor, St Paul’s College 

Bhaltaciiarjee, P K . . Ditto 

Bhat tacharjee, Pareshnath, ma . . Asst-t Prof, Presidency College 

Bhalla-charjee, Paramesh Ch, msc Prof, Vidyasagar Col lege 

Bh.iMacharjee, Pashupati, BA . . Asstt Audit. Officer Eastern Railway 

Bhnttacharjya, Patanjali, ma .. Bengali Translator to the Government of T\ ost 

Bengal . 

Bhat.taehar jya, Phanindra Nath, Professor, Surendra Nath College 

MA 


dB, Sankar Ghose Lane 
8t>- 1 , College Street 
Vidyasagar College 
I 10 Nurendra Nath 
Banerjee Road 
•H Chit taranjan Avenue 

10, Se-ot,t- Lane 
BO Park S( 

-IO Row baza t Street 

K R I V I 1 1 HIM* 

dO, Shankar Glume Lane 
d. < briiM a II is Sijuare 
• >l. ( -hour ’inghee Road 
I fa i rlie Place 

0 7 Netaji Suhlias 101 
10, Scot t- Lurie 

B d ( Ollander House 

1 d Mirznpur St reel . 

I0-/J Amherst St 

I 0 SI rami Road 
SO | Colk'ge St i eet- 

S(»/L Gollege Street 
Write? iX Buildings 
(‘hart (‘red Bank Build* 
mgs 

S, Council House Street 
10, Strand Road 
I Hast ings St root 
d 1 Chovvnnghee Rd 
Mercantile Bldgs, Lal- 
bazar. 

dd-1, Anilmrst- Street, 

Ditto 

NO I College St reel- 
dO, Shankar Ghose Lane 
10 Strand Rd 
Writers’ Buildings 

1M Harrison Road 


Bhatt-acharjee, Prit-hwish, BCom 
At \\ 

Blmttacliarji, Ram Kumar, MSc 
Bhat 1 acharjya, Ram Kishore, 
Benin 

Bliattacliaryya, Ram Kishore 
Bhatt acharya, Ram Prosad, msc 


Bhat t.u bar jee, Ran jit- Mohon, bmk 
B lmtlacharyya, S 
Bhatt acharjee Sailesh Ch, ma 
B liattacliaryya, Sailondra Nath 
BA 

Bjiattacliarjee, Sambhu 

Bhat t acharjee, Samir Chandra, 

BSc 

Bhat-tacliarjeo, S. K. ba. 
Bhatta-charjee, S. K. 

«n«tt{icharyya, S N 
^hatt, acharjee, Santosh Kumar, 
BEK 

Bhatt-acharjya, Satchidananda . . 
Bhat tacharjee, S P 
hat tacharjee, Shyamadas, MSc 


Shyanmjiadft, ] 
tacharya, Sibaprasad, ma, 

"^(tacharjee, S N 
Bhat tacharjee S C 
hat tacharyya Sitanath ,BSc 

^Uacharyya, Sourendra Natl 

Sukumar, ha 

Shat*!* u ar ^ Subodh Ran j an 

Kumar H 

^ttachwjaa, 8- 8. 


Asst t Price Watersliouse Peat. A’, Co 

Professor, Surendra Nath College 
Asstt, Lovelock and Lewis 

Asst t Maeneill and Barry Ltd 

Lecturer in Chemistry, St Paul’s Cathedral Mission 
College 

Lee, Cal Tech School 
Ditto 

Leo, Moulana Azad College 
Indian Asstt Mercantile Banks Ltd 

Sub-Acett, Reserve Bank of India 
Ditto 

Manager, Agency Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Ex. Engr., H.O., Port Commissioners 
Administrative Guest- keen, Williams Ltd 
Inspector of factories W B Directorate of Factories 

Accountant, Burmah -Shell O S & D Co of India, Ltd 
Asstt Aect-ts officer AG Bengal 

Tech Managr Calcutta Industrial Chemicals and 
Minerals Co Pte Ltd 
Prof, Bangabasi College- 
Prof, Bangabasi College 

Asstt TCI (India) Pte Ltd 
Asstt Controller of Stores, E RJy 
Demons! of Physics St Pauls Cathedral Mission 
College 
Ditto 

Asstt, Lovelock and Lewis 

Sub Aoctt State Bank (Park St Br) 

Professor, C&ty College (Commerce) 

Diet Engj(F*L), EJRly 


B- 1 ( hlluudcr House, 

1M , Harrison Road 
■I, Lyons Range 

~ Km hr Place 
BB/ 1, Amherst Street 

I 10 S N Bauer jcc. Rd 
J )it t o 

N. Wellesley Street 
N Nclaji Suhlias Rd 

N. Council House Street 
Ditto 

b, (’I lurch Lane 
lo Strand Road 
4 I ( 'liownrurhee Rd 
New Secretariates Builds 

Hong Kong House 
Trr.ixm \ Buildings 
IB I >Ii ;i i a ml olla St feet 

llh Scot t Lane 
IB Scotl Lane 

( ‘how riigli cc 
f )if t o 

BB/J Ahmerst Street 
Ditto 

4, Lyons Range 
Queens Mansion 

13 Mirzapur Street 
38 Cbowruighee Bo*4« 



8 


No. Names. 


Style or catting. 


Residence or 
business. 


386 Bhose, P 

386 Bhose Tarun Kumar 

387 Bhowmiek Bojon 

388 Bhowmiek, J B, MSe 

389 Bhowal Rabitidra Nath 

390 Bhowmik, GopaJ, MA 

391 Bhowmic, Nil Kamal, bee, 

AM1K 


. . Asstt I C I (India) Pte Ltd 
. . Asstt Burn & Co Ltd 

Asstt James Finleys & Co Ltd 
Prof St Xavier's College 

Mechanical Drawing Office Jessup & Co Ltd 
Public Relation officer Home (Pub) Dept 
Asstt Mains Engineer, C E 8 C, Ltd 


. . 34 Chowringhee. 

. . 12 Mission Bovs 

. . 2 Netaji Bubkas It 

. . 30 Park St 

. . 63 Netaji SuhlutsK, 

. . Writer's Buildup 

. . Victoria House ( 
ringhee Square. 


392 Bhowmic, Nirmalya Prasad, msc, 

mi so, A MIRK. 

393 Bhowmic, Prabodh Kumar, msc 

394 Bhuniya, Swadesh Bhusan, MA 

395 Bhusroy Prannath 


Astt. Engr, Associated Electrical Industries (India), 
Ltd 

Pi of, Bangabasi College 
Prof, City College (Evening) 

Sr Sales Asstt, G E C 


6, Mission Row 


19, Soott Lane 
102/1 Amherest Str, 
6 Ohittaranjan Aver 


396 Bir, G, 

397 Barla, Gajanan 

398 Bissa, K. M. BOOM, LLB 

399 Biswas, A. B. 

400 Biswas, A. K. 

401 Biswas, Abani, MA 

402 Biswas, A. K., BA, 


Asstt Supdt, The Bengal Chamber of Commerce 
. . Birla Brothers Ltd. 

Indian Chamber of Commerce 
. . Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 

. . Asstt, Turner Morrison & Co Pte Ltd 

. . Prof, Bangabasi College 

Offr., United Bank of India Ltd 


Royal Exchange 
8 India Exchange p 

23B Netaji Bubkas I 
12 Mission Row 

6 Lyons Range 

25/1 Scott Lam* 
67A Netaji Bubkas H 


403 Biswas Ashutosh . . Asstt, Burn & Co Ltd 


12 Mission Row. 


404 Biswas, Birendra Nath 


Asstt Acctt, Associated Electrical Industries (India) 
Pte Ltd 


J3 Rajcndia 1 
Mukherjee Itoad 


405 Biswas, Biswanatb 

406 Biswas, Dilip Kumar, ma 

407 Biswas, H. 

408 Biswas, Jagadiswar 


. . Civil Engr, Mackintosh Burn, Ltd 

. . Asstt Prof, Presidency College 

Jr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 

Asstt Acctt, Associated Elec trial Industries (India) 
Pte Ltd 


8, Netaji Snbhaw Ito 

86/1, College Sired 

4 Fairlie Place 

13 Raj end rn Nath M 
erjee Road. 


409 Biswas, Leslie, ma . . Professor, St Paul’s College 

410 Biswas, Moni Bhusan, BA . . Supdt, R B of India 

411 Biswas, Mrinal Kumar, ma (com) Asstt, Lovelock & Lewis 

412 Biswas, Pronoto Kumar MOT Engr* Babcock A Wilcox of (Ind) Ltd . . 

413 Biswas, Sauren Asstt. Engr Dept, Bird & Co Pte Ltd . . 


414 Biswas, R. N. 

415 Biswas S. N. 

416 Biswas, Susan ta Kumar, msc 

417 Blackburn, R. 

418 Blanchette, Lennard Eugene 

419 Blight, J. W. 

420 Boal, Pravin, BCOM, CA 

421 Bondville, H. V. 


^22 Bouffaer, Philip George 

/ 

423 Brahmachari, Gop&l Krishna, 

MSC 

424 Bowie, J, 0. A. 


Asstt Com Supdt, E Rly 
Dy Controller of Stores E Riy. 

Lecturer, St Paul’s College 
Asstt, Water & Chemical Pte Ltd 
Engr International Construction (India) Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Industrial Dept, Bird & Co pte Ltd 
Asstt Acctt, Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Asstt, James Finlay A Co Ltd 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson, Ltd 
Prof, Bangabasi College 




. . 33-1, Amherst Street 

. . 8 Council House titi 

. . 4, Lyons Range 

. . 1 A 3 Brabourne Re' 

. . Chartered Bank R u 
ings. 

. . 3 Koilaghat Street 

. . E. Riy. House 

33/1, Amherst Street 
Ditto. 

. . 101 Park Street 

Ditto. 

14 India Exobai^ 

. . 2 Netaji Subha* & 

.. 4, ClivoRow 

. . 26/1 Scott 





Names. 


9 


- Broughton, B. E. Pereival 
(1 Branch Ronald Edward 

; Brewster, lan Alfred 

s ]{rown Charles Aurtlior aa oca, 
Fecs(UK) aics (India) 

I Brock John Callingwood 

i Bromley, Robert Carl 

1 broom, W. S. 

> Broughton B. E. P. 

I Brown, Hugh 

\ Bruce James 

I Bryans, J. W. 

1 Biirnu.ri, Narayan Chandra MS( 

' Burroughs, W. A. 

- Hurt, YY r . 

C 

1 Camei on, Andrew James 
(’apsl-ick, Herbert Oorcbm 

Cum piol . Stephen 
Car.ipiol, T. A. 

Caigin,!). F. 

C.irgin Cecil Edw m 

Carter, 1). H. M. 

Carter, L. 

Car\»*r, George Albert, use, 

AMHiiC 

Cas(‘y Janies 

Chadhft Mohan Lall, ba aca 
C liaki, Manindra Chandra 
Babindra Nath 

; ’h;4o,, I. U. 

r ’hakravarty, A. K. ma 
( || ' ll -m\'arti, A K, ma 
cl *akraborty, Amal Kumar MSO 
^kravarty, A. C. 

BC0M ' 

i * l ®WM!'ioA Ai “ Kum "’ 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


Director, Graham Trading Co (Pto), Ltd 
Chief Acctt Gestetner Duj>lieators Pto Ltd 
Cal Director, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd . . 

Director, Brooke Bond India Pto Ltd 

Director Brooke Bond (India) Pto Ltd 
Director, Alfred Herbert (India) Private Ltd. 

. Asstt Kilburn & Co Pte Ltd 

. Shipping Manager, Turner Morrison <V Co Pte Ltd . . 

Wagon Drawing Office, Jessop <fe Co. 

* Director Stewards & Lloyds of India Pte Ltd 
. Mg Director, A W Fogg is & Co. Private Ltd. 

Loot, Presidency College 

. Administrative & Liaison Officer, Brooke Bond 
India Pte Ltd 

Asstt Stewarts S: Lloyds of India Pie Ltd 


6, Lyons Raaige 
BA Esplanade East 
4 Banksliall Street 
2 Metcalfe Street 

2 Metcalfe Street 
L3/3 Strand Read 
2 Fairlio Place 
6 Lyons Range 
63 Netaji Sublets Road. 
41 Chowringhee Road 
D-(> Gillander House 
SG/I College St 
2 Mel ealfe Street 

4 1 Chowringbee Road 


Asstt, Will iamson Magor iY. r Co, Ltd 

Manager, Merchandise l)ej>tt.. Associated 
Industries (India) Private Ltd. 

Manager C & F Dept, James Warren Sr Co 

Sr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall &. Co Ltd 

Asstt., Oil Di pt., Bird & Co Pte Ltd 

Member, Board of Management, Jcssop Co 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 

Asstt. Turner, Morrison Sr, Co Ltd 

Asstt Gi Handers Arbuthnot & Co Ltd 

Asstt, * I ute Mills Oeptt, Bird and Ileilgors 

Asstt Bird & Co (Pte) Ltd 
Lecturer, Calcutta University 
Elect Engr, Octavious Steel Co Ltd 

Ex Engr, Port Commissioners 
Prof Surondra Nath College 
District Sales Manager, Standard Yaeuiun 1 
Lect, Presidency College 
Partner, S. R. Batliboi & Co, Ltd. 

Prof, St Xaviers College 

Asstt, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 


4, Mangoe L«*ne 
Electrical G Mission Row 

Ltd . . 31 Chowringhcc Road 

4 Fairlio Place 
Ditto. 

Ltd . . G3, Netaji Suhhas Roads 

. . 4 Bank shall Street 

• . G Lyons Range. 

Gillander House 

. . Chartered Bank Build - 
ings. 

. . Chartered Bank Building 

. . Senate House 

14 Old Court House 
.Street. 

. . 15, Strand Road 

. . 24 Harrison Road 

>il Co . . G, Church Lane 

86/1 College St 

• . IB, Old Post Office 
Street. 

. . 30 Park Street. 


B-4 Gillander House 



10 


No. 


Names* 


Style or calling. 


459 

460 

461 

462 


469 

464 

465 

466 

467 
46S 

469 

470 

471 


472 

479 

474 


475 

476 

477 

47S 

479 

480 
4S1 
482 


4K3 

484 


485 

456 

457 
488 
4S9 

490 

491 


492 


499 

494 

495 

496 

497 

498 

499 

500 

501 

502 


503 

504 

505 

506 


507 

508 

509 

510 

511 

512 

513 

514 

515 


Chakravartty, Anutosh, ma, llb 

Chakraborty, Arun Kumar MA 
Chakra borty, Arun 
Chakraborty, Arun Kanti, 
B COM 

Chakravarti, Ash u tosh, ma, caub 
Chakraborty, Arun Kanti 
Chakravartty Beduin, ma 
C iiakravarty, Bibliuti Bhusan 
Chakraborty, Bihhuti Bhusan 
Chakraborty, Bilap Kr., MSC 
Chakraborty, Bireswar, MSC 
Ciiakravarty, Dilip Kr, ma 

(Ciiakravarty, Durgasaran , ma 
(Triple), llb 

Ciiakravarty, Gangcsh, ma 
C liakraborty, Copal Chandra 
Chakraborty, Gopal Krishna 
BME 

Chakra vartty, Gopal Lai, ma 


Lecturer, Ooenka College of Commorco 
Sales Dept, Indo Burma Petroelum Co Ltd 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Sub-Acetf, The Chartered Bank 

Sub-Acett, Reserve Bank of India 
Sub Acott, The Easern Bank 14 d 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Accountant, Jessup & Co, Ltd 

Asstt, Burn & Co Ltd 
Demonst, (City (College 

Demons!, St i’aul’s Cathedral Mission College 
Prof, City College (Com Dept.j 
Professor, Vidyasagar College 

Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Shipping Manager, Lipton’s India Ltd 
Chief Service Engr, Babcock & Wilcox of (1 rid) Ltd . . 

Asstt Professor, Presidency College 


Chakra vartty Haripada, ma, ul 
Ciiakravarty, Jlemanta Kumar, 

MA, LLB 

Chakraborty, Ueramba Chan- 
dra, MA 

Cliakraborty, Hrisliikesli, BCOM 
CAI1B‘ 

Ciiakravarty, Hrishikesh, mcom . . 
(Chakraborty, J. N. 

Chakraborty, Juanendra. Copal 

MSC I)P11JL 

(Chakravarti, Kalipada, msc 
Cliakraborty, Kalyan Kumar, 
IMA 

Chakraborty, K. C. 

(Chakraborty, K. L. ma Boom 
Chakraborty, M. C. 

Chakravarti, Madliusudau, msc . . 
Chakraborty, Manilal, MA 
(Jhakravarty, Manindra Kr, ma . . 
Chakrabarty, Manindra Nath, 
b, Mjoch e. 

Chakravarti, Nalini Mohan, ma 
(Phil), ma (Eng). 

(Chakraborty, Narendra Chandra. 
(Chakravarti, Naresli Chandra, MA 
Ciiakravarty, Niranjan 
Chakraborty, N. K. 

Chakravarti, Nirendra Ch. 
Chakraborty, N. R. 

Chakravarti, Panohanan, ma 
Chakravarti, Panohanan, ma 
Chakravartty, Parbati Pada amie 
Ciiakravarty, Phani Bhusan bk., 
oe. 

Chakrabarty, P. N. 

Chakravartty, Pravat Nath msc 
Chakraborty, Prasanta Kumar 
MSC, MSEE (USA) 
Chakravartty, Priyabrata bee 
(Hons) 

(Chakravarti, Puma Chandra, msc 
Ciiakravarty, P. C., ma 
Chakravarti, Rabindra Nath, ma 
Chakrabarty, Rabindra Nath 

Chakravarti, Rabindra Nath, msc 
Chakra varty, Ramakanta, ma 
Chakravarti, Ramendra Krishna, 

BA 

Chakravarty, Rameshchandra, MA 
Chakraborty, S. K. 


Commercial Asstt.., Voltas Ltd 
Professor, Vidyasagar College 

Prof, Bangabasi College 

Olfr, (Central Bank of India Ltd 

Professor, City College (Commerce) 

Asstt, I(C I (India) Pte Ltd 
Prof, Bangabasi College 

Lecturer, Surendra Nath College 

Lcct, St l*aul\s Cathedral Mission College 

Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Asstt Supdt, Central Tea Board 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Prof, City (College 
Lecturer, Moulana Azad College 
Prof, City College 

Sr Engr, Paterson Eng Co (India) l > to Ltd 

Professor, City College (Commerce) 

Secy, Air w ays India Ltd 
Professor, Presidency College 
Genl Works, Jessop <fe (Co, 

Asstt-, Kilburn & Co Ltd 
Professor, City College (Commerce) 

Mercantile Asstt , Maekinon Mackenzie & Co Ltd . . 
Professor, (City College (Com Dept) 

Lecturer, Calcutta University 
Inspector of Boilers, W est Bengal 
Asstt Engr, Calcutta Improvement Trust 

Assistant Indian Explosive Ltd 
Professor, Bangabasi College 

Dist Engr Mains Dept-, Calcutta Electric Supply 
Corpn Ltd 

Asstt Mains Engr, C E S C Ltd 

Professor, City College (Com Dept) 

Asst t, Purchase Dept., Indian Aluminium Co, Ltd 
Professor, Surendra Nath College 
Contract Engr, Associated Electrical Industries 
(India) Pte Ltd 
Lecturer, St Paul’s College 
I*rof, Vidyasagar College 
Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 

Prof, Vidysagar College 

Asstt, Macneill & Barry Ltd . . , . 


Residence or plac^ 
business. c 

210 Bowbazar Street 
Gi Hander Hou^e 

4 Bankshall St 
4 Notaji Subhii* 

8, Council Hou.m. s tr 
14 Notaji Sublias J UIJ 
39, Sank a r Ghosh Lm: 
63, Netaji Su)»] Us j> (| 
12 Mission Row 
102/1 Amherst. Stn,^ 
33/1 Amherst 8ti(rt 
13, Surya Sen Siren 
39, Sankar Ghos], p UU( 

39, Sankar Glurli Lu I1( 

9 Weston St r«rt 

1 & 3 Brahourne ]; ()a 

86/1 CoJh g< Stive t 
8 Netaji Subh.U' Ivo.ul 
39, Sankar Ghosh Lau 

25/1 Scolt Lain- 

10 Linds«i\ S t i • 'i ■ t 

J 3 Mirzapur Str< <-t 
34 ( 'how i mghn - 
25/1 Suotl Lain 1 

24, Harrison Load 
33/ I Amht'i si Si in I 

1 2 Mi.ssii >n 1 low 

27 & 29 Braboiirm* Ibt 
4 Cli\ e 1 low 
102- 1 , \mii( i '.l St i <*( t 
8 Wellesley St 1 <*<‘1 
102/1 Amhcist 81. 

2L Theatre Road 

13 Mirz.tpiu Street 

31 Chit. I. Iranian AvOUtj 
86-1, < olhrr St tret 
63, Neta|i Sublias 
2 Eairlic I 'Lee 
13 Mir/apiu Street 
16 St rant I K“.t»I 
13, Mir7a|».»-c Street 
Senate I Ioijsu 

1 Hast iims Street 
10, Netaji Suhliiisb ' 

34 Chov riiiilhce 
19 Scott • 
V'ictoria 1 b»u^' 

Victoria House 

13, Mir/.ii ].'>"■ Stn-8 * 
31, 0 hi>wrni{'l«‘‘ ,But 
24, Harrison K ,:ul 
6 ]\Iission Row 

33/1 Amhorst 
39, SaiiKar Obosi 
8, Council Hou^ 

39, Sankar 

2 Fahlie Place 



0. 


Names. 


11 

Style or oaliing. 


Residence or plaoe of 
business. 


. ^hakravarti, Sailendra Nath, ma, 
vhv. 

■ Chakraborty, Santi Ranjan MA 
' (^liakrabarty, Sailendra Nath, ma 
(D acca) 

» Chakra varti, Satindranath, MA . . 

, Chakraborty, S. C., BA 
I Chakra varti, Satyesh Chandra, ma 

> Chakra vartty, Sourindra Nath 

) Chakra varti, Sudhansu Coomar 

BK, CB 

1 Chakraborty, S. K. 

Chakra vartty, S. M. 
ti Cliakravarty, Sudhangsu Ranjan, 
jiM i; a.m.i.e. (Lond.) 

; Chakraborty, Sushil Ranjan 

^ Chakraborty, Sukhamoy 
I) Chakra varti, Tarakumar msc rjm 

> Chakra varti, Tarapada, ma 
l Chambers, 1*. 1>. Hu \ ford 

l Chakravarti, Tridib Ranjan 
{ (ihaiuly, Joseph 
1 Chandra, A. N. 

‘t Chandra, D K. 
i Ch.MK Ira, Dilip Kumar me 
' Chandra, Kali Nadltan, msc 
s Chandra, Laha Nolin. ba 
i Chandra Sekhar, Chongat Govind, 

MA 

) Chundra Shahani m com llb 


I Chandra, Rabindra, MSC 
- Oli.inrasekar, Ganji Gunto 
5 Ch.indiasekhar, Pushpagiri 
Yaidvanath. 

I Chandra Sokhar, M. 
j Chunduwadia Jehanbux 

Shavksha, n com ha asaa 

• Chandavarkar, R. 1 ) . 

“ Hun s. 

' ('han, H. K. 

* Chary, Trivongada Srinvau-sa 


Chaturvedi, Girish Chandra. 

MA, LLB 
(’hatter joe, B 

Hiatt raj, A jit Kumar, ma 
Cluttcrji, Amalendu, n com aca 
f 'liatterjro, Amalesh, msc, i> Phil 
( halierj^*, Amarondra Nath 
(-hat tor joe, Amiya Bluisan 
{ h.-it.orji, Anil 


Kumar 


Uiatiorjoe, Anup 
( d (Modi), E (Lond) 
■hatferjoo, A. S., BME AMME 
; latter j«e, Amah Nath 
UaUnjoo, Ban Bebari 
, Banshidhar 

Baidyanat h, BEL 
Baranasbi 
; lat t<‘ij‘*c, B. K. 

J. ^dcajoo, Balai 
di'-merjtM., Birendra K., MA 
Chandra Nath 

i att <‘»j<‘e, D. 

bnattt*rj w , D 

-lattoi j^ Dhirendra Nath, msc 
Ck! * ‘ r !^’ Dobi ^rosad, MA 
Hinabandhu 
fn', Goutam, ma 
Ch a ,/ T l c *°» Guru prasad 

n. ;; 

msc • 

l Jh xianpada, msc, dphil 


Asstt Professor, Presidency College 


86-1 College Street 


Asstt Secy, Bengal National Chamber of Commerce P/ll Mission Row Extn. 
Asstt, Tata Iron & Steel Co Ltd Agent's Oflico . . 23B Notaji Subhas Road 


Professor, City College . . 1 02- 1 , Amherst Street 

Asstt Supdt, Tea Boar<l . . . . 14 Brabourne Load. 

Asstt Prof, Presidency College . . 86-1 College Street 

Jr Oftieer, Life Ins Corpn of India, lliiulusthan 4 Chitta ranjan Avenue 
Co-op Ins Society 

Assistant Valuer, Calcutta Improvement Trust . . 10, Notaji Subhas Road 


Engl’ Guest Keen Williams Ltd 
Asstt, I C 1 (India) Ptc Ltd 
Inspector of .Factories, West Bengal 


41 Chowrngheo 
134 Chowrignghec 
1, Hastings Street 


Circle Asstt, Sales Dej)t, TTlio Imperial Tobacco Co of 
India Ltd 

Prof, Presidency College 
Lecturer, Presidency College 
Professor, Cit y College (Com Dept) 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co. Ltd 

Engr, Babcock & Wilcox of (Ind) Ltd . . 

Acctt Balmer, Lau rie iV ( \ > Ltd 
Asstt Kilbiim, & Co. Ptc Ltd 

Asstt, Alkali & Chemical Corporation of India, Ltd. 

Mams Engr, C 10 S C, Ltd 

Professor, Surendra Nath College 

Asstt Audit Officer, E Rly 

Asstt Secretary, Indian Chamber of Commerce 


,*17 Chowringhee 

86/1 College Street 
86-1, ColJog< Street 
].*3, Mirzapore Street 
4, Bankshal! Street. 

1 A .‘1 Brabourne Road 
21 Netaji Subhas Road 

2 Fairlie Place 
34 Chowringhee 
Victoria House, 

2 I, Harrison I toad 
16, Strand Road 
2JB, Netaji Subhas ltd. 


Asstt, Burmah Oil Co India Trading (Ltd) 

Demr., Presidency College 

Enyr, Associated Eleetriral Industries (India), Ltd. 
Asstt Mains Engr, C JO S O, Lid 

Personnel Officer, E Rly 

Acct-t, Seindia Steam Navigation Co Ltd 


28/26 India Exchange 
Platte 

86 / 1 Co I lege S t r< *t * t, 

6, Mission Row 
Victoria House, Chow- 
ringhee Stjuare. 

E, Rly Tfouse 
33 Netaji Subhas Road 


Mercantile Asstt, Mackinon Mackenzie & Co 
Personal Officer, E. Rly. 

Asstt, Burn & Co Ltd 

Contract Engr, Associated Electrical Industries (Ind) 
Pte Ltd 

Asstt, Dunlop Rubber (Jo (India) Pte Ltd 


16 Strand Road 
Eastern Railway House 

12 Mission Row 

13 Rajendm Nath Mu- 
Idler joe Road 

5713 Free School Street. 


Mech Engr, E Rly 

Professor, Surendranath College 

Professor, City College. (Commerce) 

Professor, Vidyasagar College 
Asstt, Burn A Co Ltd 
Asstt Prof, Presidency College 

Asstt. Engr, Associated Electrical Industries (India), 
Ltd. 

Inspector of Factories, West Bengal 


E Rly House 
24, Harrison Road 
13 Mirzapur Street 
Vidyasagar C< dlege 
12 Mission Row 
86/1 College St reet 
6, Mission Row 

1 Hastings St rect 


Engineer, Indian Aluminium Co, Ltd. 

Imperial Tobacco Co, India Ltd 
Asstt, James Warren & Co Ltd 
Engr, Babcock Wilcox of (Ind) Ltd 
J lisped or of fact oi ies. West Bengal .. 
ActgAcett, Bank of 13a ro< la Ltd 
Asstt I C 1 (India) Pte Ltd 
Administrat ion, Guest Keen William Ltd 
Loot , Goenka Collegia of Com & Business admn 
Asst-t, Jardine Henderson, Ltd 
Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Dist Mech Engr, E Rly 
Asstt Prof, Presidency College 
Prof, City College 
Supdt, State Bank of India. . 

Prof, Surendranath College 
Chief Acctt, Anderson Wright & Co 
Asstt. I C I (India) Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Prof Surendra Nath College 
Lecturer, Presidency College 


31, Chowringhee Road 
37, Chowringhee Road 
31 Chowringhee Road 
1 <Kr 3 Bra bourne Road 
1 Hast ings St f eet 
India Kxcliangc Calcutta 

34 Chowringhee 

41 Chowringhee Road 
210 Bo w' bazar Street 
4, Clive Row 
12 Msission Row 
E. Rly. House 
8(5 'J, College Street 
102/1 Amherst Street 

35 Strnad Road 
24 Harris -n Read 
7 Wellesley Place 
34 Chowringhee 

4 Clive Row- 
24 Harrison Road 
86-1, College Street 



12 


No. 


Nam os. 


Style or oalling. 


Residence or pu,,, 

busint-g*}. 


.580 Cliattarjoo, Hcmondralal, ma . . Prof, City College 

581 Chatterji, lierainbanath, ma . . Lecturer, Sanskrit College 


5S2 Chatterjee, J. 

5 S3 Chatterjee, Jagadish Ch. 

584 Chatterjee, 4yot iprakash . . 

.78.7 Chal4er|ee, K. C. 

586 Chatterji, Kali Narayan 

5 S7 ( ‘hat tn jee, Kanailal 

5SS Clia I torjee, Kanan 

580 < Mi. i : lei jee, Ki isim.i )>a<la, MSC 

500 ( ’f; 1 1 < i |ee, Kshet ra Gnpa I , M\ 

50 I Chatterjee Lakshmi Narayan 
B(!omA(!A 
502 ( 'lint 1 fa jri\ I\T 

504 Chatterjee, Manindra N., MA 
50t ( 'hal > ciji, Na I mi: a njan, MA 

;70.7 Chatterjee, N. C. 

.700 Chatterjee Nani Gojwl ha (Hons) 

Oil' SNV. 

r>l)7 ( ‘hat I er jee, Nam Copal 

ohS ( ‘hatter jee, N. K. 

500 Chattorji, Nilratan, ha 

000 ( ’!»-• i j ei n e, Nn m.» I <‘h , ma . . 

60 I Chatterjee, Ninnal K., MA 

0( ( ‘had erjee, Pankaj 

004 ( 'liatlei jee, Phalli Bhusaii 

004 Chatterjee, Phanimadhah, BSc 

(( <al) BSc (Eng’G) (Bill 1 ) AMIK 
(India). 

005 Chatter jet*, Phatik Chandra (Dr) 

MSe, DPJiil 

000 Chatter jee, Prabir Kumar, MSC . . 
007 Chatterjee, Pnya Kumar, 11COM 
60S I’haniijee, Pioliilla Prasim, MSO 
n IMIII, 

000 Chatter j<*o, Pulin Bohari 
010 Chatterjee, R. 

01 I Chatterjee, It. N. 

(ill* Chatterjee, ltahindra Chandra, 
MA 

01.4 Chatter ji, Rad ha Kanta, BCom 
(Willi 

014 ( JhaMerjee, Ram Narayan 

01. 7 Chatterji, Itaniesh Chandra 
(ill) Chatterjee, Jtaj Kumar 

017 ( ‘hatf erjee, S. ( 

0 1 <S Chatter j<><*, S. C., MSc 
01 0 Chatterji, S. K . 

02t > Chatterji, Santi Kumar, msc 
0-1 (‘hadeijee, Sautosh Kr., MA, 
LLB 

022 ( ‘halt erjee, Sand Kumar, MA 

024 Chatterjee, Natclnt Kumar 
024 Cliade.jet*, Saslii Kumar, MA 

02.7 * ir» ' 1 (•' jee, Sat \ a hrala, MSC 
020 Chatter jet*, S. N., BA 

027 Cha tt.t*rji, Sut\ asaran, ma 

028 Ci;ii.rt|< . ,^ 1 ,-yiniat Kr, ma 

020 Chade; |ee, Sudhakar, MA, 
D Phil 

040 ChaUeije* , Sujit Kumar, "BA 

041 Chut (ei jee, Sekliarendra Mohan, 

MSC 

042 Chatterjee, Sukumar, BCOM 
044 Chatterjee, S. N. 

044 Chatterji, S. P. 

045 Chatterjee, S. R. 

041) Chatterji, Taraknath, ma 
047 Chatterjee, Tar tin Kumar, MSC 
05S Chaturvedi, S. C. BCOM 


Asst Accts Officer, E Rly 
Asstt Ex Engr TI O Port Commissioner 
Asstt, Yanghar Bush Crane Co Ltd Martin Burn Ltd 
Asstt, (Join Nupdt, E Rly 
Auett Hoare Miller & Co Ltd 
Legal Asstt, Brooke Bond Judia 1 *t Lttl 
Asstt, Burn & Co Ltd 
Pi of, Bangabasi College 

Prof, Yidyasagar College . . 

Acctt, Paterson Eng Co (India) Pie Ltd 

Asst Engr., Port Commissioners 
Prof, St Paul’s Catlnxlral Mission ( a >1 lego 
Prof.. Baugahasi College . , 

Asstt P Officer, E Rly 
Labour Officer, Labour Commissioner 

Asstt, M E Doptt, Martin Burn Ltd 
Asstt A cetts. Officer, A G Bengal 
Sub-Aeett, Reserve Bank of India 
Lecturer, Presidency < ‘ollege 
Lecturer, Moulana Azad College 
Asstt, James Km lay At. Co Ltd 
Asstt, Burn A Co Ltd 
lnspedior of Factories 


Asst. Prof., Presidency College 

Leet, Presidency College 
Tax Expert, Lovelock &- Lewis 
Lee, Calcutta Technical School 

A/l Head Office, Port Commissioners of Cal 
Asstt, Khali mar Paint, Colour <V. Varnish Co Ltd 
Chief Cashier, E Rly 

Jr Ex Officer, Bengal National Chamber of 
Commerce 

Supdt (Offg). R B of India 

Asstt Engr, B B & J Construction Co Ltd 
Sr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 
Asstt to Personnel Director, Imperial Tobacco Co 
of India Ltd 

Asstt , J Thomas cV Co Pte Ltd 

Asstt Acctts Officer, Office of the Sr D A-G, P At. T 
Dist Signal & Tele Cum Engr, E Rly 
Prof, Bangabasi College 
Prof, (iity College (Evening) 

Prof, St Xaviers’ College 
Coach Drawing Office, Jessop & Co 
Staff Asstt, Bank of India 
Lecturer, Moulana Azad College 
Dy Labour ( ‘oinmissioner. West Bengal 
Lecturer. Geonka College of Commerce 
Lecturer, Moulana. A/.ad College 
Asstt Prof, Moulana Azad College 

Asstt Ac*c*tt, National ik Grindlays Bank Ltd, Lyods 
Branch 

Prof, City Collage (Evening) 

Asstt., Price Waterhouse Peat Co 

Asstt Accts Officer, E Rly 

Dy. Chief P. 0., Eastern Rly 

Asstt Controller of Stores, E Rly 

Professor, City College 

Lect, St Paul’s Cathedral Mission College 

Asstt Acctt, Allahabad Bank Ltd 


639 Chaturvedi, M. 

640 Chaudliuri, Ajoy Kumar, msc 

641 Chaxidhuri, Anilendra Nath 


Dist Com Supdt, E Rly 

Lecturer, Calcutta Technical Schooi 

Asstt, Burn & Co 


102/1 Amherst St 

1I L,»r l,,,, ‘ a «> 

E Rly House 
15 Strand Road 
Mercantile Building 
3 Koilaghat Stn,.^ 
5 Pair lie IMuce 
2 Metcalfe Niie,.i 
12 Mission li uu 
ill Ncott L..lie 
ffil *•>! km Ghosh I . 
21 Theatre Road 

15 SI mud i! ;td 
44 / J Ambers l Street, 
1 !) Sioti La».«* 

E R ly 1 lou.^e 
New Secretariat 

Mercantile Bnddm^ 

1 i easurv 1 >«( ■ itj , ii* r 
8 . Council limise Mu 
:vi,l (‘.dlr‘-r 

S, Wollesle\ r Si l’eot, 

2 Netaji iSuhii.i . Roll, 

1 2 M iSMOIl I b t\\ 

I 1 Lastings Stn-et 


86/1 y Coll(*ge St reel 

86/ 1 College St jeet 
•i Lyons lbticje 
1 In, S N I .(. d |ee J! 

15 St rand lb» d 
(> Lyons J tan 1 ( 
Eastern 1 M\ . House 
P- 1 1 Mission how E 


8, (ioimejl Hollar Stl’o 

P -13 Misfiou lbn\ Ki 
4 Kairlu* PL- 
37 Cho\vnm;iu-c 


8 Mission 1 i.o\\ 

7, Koilagh.'P Street 
Eastiaji hlv. Ilouhi* 
10 , Sent t Lane 
102/1 Amiie.'st Street 


30 Park N! i< « t. 

«:t Ncl.iji .O.i.lU'H.* 
Straii.l 11.M.I 
8, WoI!< sl\ .SM-oot 
1 Ilnslmb 
^10, IJowluwu Miw* 
8, W. I’.-.iv .-nc'l 
8 W.<II<‘.l<-y Slu^'- 

29 IWf.iji Siil'h' 11 Ra 

102/1 Amli- i.-l ' She, ' t 


id< r U»»^ 
use 

Iy JfollSC 


Place f f 
3 Koilaghat StrtH* 

110, Surendra 

Bancj jcc Road* 

12 Mission 



Names. 

No. 

u> , ('hftudhuri, Ashoke Dob 
4 *; Chaudhuri, Atindra, BOOM, AOA 
Chaudhuri, Asit Baran 
;4 - (’haiulhurj, lk 
. I ( ; chaudhuri, A. R. 

chaudhuri, Abani Kanto, MS(', 
BL(Patna) 

}s ('Jiaudliuri, Blmdev, MA 

cjiaudiiun, Bibhiih Bhus.m, ma 
( M iaudhuri, Bijoy Kumar 
cliaiidhuri, lb rendra 
(b iudlmry, Biswanath Ha/.ra 


Chaudhuri, Dehaprasad, MA 
;,} ( baiidiniri, Cirindra Kumar, 

bcom 

C'iiaiidJmn, Huendra 

( 'ii.uidliuri. Kmnud, AI A 

i;,7 ( Hiaudhuri, K. K. 

;;,s ( ’hnudhuri, Lnbanya Kumar, 

1.WH, Dll’, All. 

,.V> rhoudhury, Manas Kumar ma . . 
ii,n ( i :iii. Lh nrjv, Manuraii mm. MA . . 
,i,i t 'iMiidhiiri, Mouindra Lai, msc . . 
,i,j Choudhun, Nanigopal, BISK 


ill;' rli.Midluin , Nripondni K ichor.*, 

MSC 

iM Ciiaiidlmri, PraUub Kumar 
Hi.) Chaudhuri, Piasanta Kumar 
Hill Clmudhuri, R. (L 

•'•T < 'liaadlmn, R. N., ma 
i , i-' ( nsuilhuri, l\, BSe, HKh 

>*''! CllOlM Ihiirv, R. K . R. 

( ’haudhun. Sadhana Kn.nl a 
'■I ! haudhun, Snilendra Nath, use 

T*S(* (Kjlg’g) Lojjd \ AMIJO 
(bid } AA 11 J 0 (Mooh.) 

Phoiidhuri, Said Kumar, MSO 
Chauhduri, Siiimr Kauta, iu!i)in 
( ( ’al) 

'd Cliaudliuri, Sourindranath, use 
llLou.s). nip use 
'*’* ( iMudlmri, Sudhir Kumar 

< ii i hi y, Tjijia.s Kumar, mso 
'l‘ ( J ,;i v tun, Mack .John 

• s dfiiirni.in K.J., BA, BCOM 
Chiiit..imoni, B. 


iV| 

i' ll I 

K*J 
i'.»u 
i'*;{ 
>‘•4 
1 •>> 
h\ 

fa? 

bs 


J 


r|j I: oy, v. K., BCOM, FCA 

r ^uj)ra, Motila! 

( ,, 1 ( »I>ra, S. K., MA, BUom 
K (, huin, A. L. 

On. msc V. R. (Dr) ma, jmid, 
mi’a (Harvard) 

L. U. 

0‘llke, (J \ 

Kuhrrt Wilson 
- <*iiU‘us, Koit.li Robertson 
( I'flurd. C. p,. 

H, Frank Ainsile 
'unwell. K. K. 

( uopor. ,J. hj. 

’ Monsyoy 

John Lvhuni 
<’• i>. Aliflm.-I 
Mk-IwoI Cliai-los 
C'"”'- Wm. Raymond 
'A rt-h u r \\ ilhiim 
J Wl"«:n, v y 5 J). W. 

ii. M. 

CWf 1 '°L>ort John 

^uttriRs, Reginald 


13 


Style or calling. 


Residence or plaoe of 
business. 


Prof, City College 

Asstt. Prior Waterhouse Peat & Co. 

Road Plant Oflioo. Jossop & Co 

Asstt., Kilburn C<» Ltd 

Asstt Indian Expl<»siv<‘ Ltd 

(’oils, Atty, Tata Iron & Stool Co Ltd 

Asstt Pro!’, J > rosidonoy College 
Prof. t'\\v (\»llogo 
Asst t, Balmor Lawrie & (k> J.,td 
Works L’uroliaso Oilict», J<\ssoj> c*v Co. 
Asstt Kuguieoring Foreman, lm]u*ria\ 
of India, Ltd 

Brof, City C’olloge (Evening) 

Asstt, Bank of Baroda Ltd 


. .. 102/1 Amherst Street 

B/4 (lillandor House 
. . 0.4 Netaji Nubhas Road 

2 Far lie Blaco 
.44, Cliowringheo 
2.4 B Netaji Sublias Road 

S(>/1 (College Street 
1D:> 1 ? Amherst St.rot't 
2J N<‘taji Subhas Road 
0.4 Netaji Sublias Road 
T<»baeoo ('o 47, ( 4io\vringhco 

102/1 Amherst Strict 
India Kxohange 


Dy Asstt-, to tbo Secy, Associated Electrical Indus- 
tries (I iid) Bte Ltd 
Brof, Baiigabasi CJollego 
Asst.t Ace Us O/beer, K Rly 

( -ominl Kngr, Associated Elee.t.rieal Indust ries 
(India), Ltd. 

Brolos-or, lJangabasi (’ollrj'e 
1’roi. \ ii' ( \ as.it* :r C<*llrj.»r 
Kngr, Kngjisli Electric Co, Ltd 

hdeo Jns, Dirootorate o( l^U’ctnoity, W est Bengal 
Broli ssor, Langabasi College 


1.4 Rajendra Nath 
Mukbor jo Road 
27)/ 1 Scott Lane 

I 1 ] Rly House 
0, Mission Row 

J 0 Si ott Lane 
40 Sbankar Chose Lane 
1 )-4 ( lillander I louse 
I JLarisli Mukherjee 
R< »a.d 

J 0 Soot.t. Lane 


Asstt., Burn <S; flo 
Oi Aoet t, Airways (I) Ltd 
Bart nor, S R Batliboi <V Co Ltd 

Officer, Karam (4iand Thapar Boss Bte. Ltd. 

Kngiuc-er, Knglish lOleotnc Company, Ltd 

Assl.t, Maoneill tV Barry Ltd 

l"ei Officer Lipfon Ltd 

Iiiopia tor of k'ai.tories, W est Bengal 


12 Mission Row 
41 Chittaranjau Avenue 
LB Old Post Office St 
25, Braliourno Road 
I>-4 Cillauder House 
2 Faii lie i’lat'o 
0 Weston Street, 
i, I List ings Street 


Jhof, (tity College. (Kvening) 
Asstt r fata Iron tS: Steel (Jo Ltd 


lt)2/l Anilierst Street 
24 B Netaji Sublias Rd 


Engineer, Associated Electrical industries 
Private Ltd 

Engr B B \ J Construction Co Ltd 
Pi « »1 , \ id\ .Isa gar (’ollcgc 
Asst William. ^>n Mngor & ('<», Ltd 
( 'oiitroiler of imports cV Exports 
Office Adi, (Supplies), Imperial Tobacco 
1 ndia J .til 

Ptirlncr, Pr ice Waterhouse Peat iV Co 
Asstt, ILoaie Miller & (’o idd 
Officer, Karam (-hand Thappar tV: Bros Pti* I 
A.^sf.t, J a rd, lie Henderson Ltd 
Dy J>ir Olfg, R B of India 


(Ind 


ia) 


(Jo of 


Jd 


0 Mission Row 

PI. 4 Mission Row Extn 
4‘.) Sankar (dioso Lane 
\ , Mangoe Lane 
*1 Esplanade East 
47 ( ’liovv riiighee 

15-4 O illander J Louse 
7> Kan lie Place 
25 lira bourne Road 

1 Clive Row 

8 Council House Street 


Asstt, Oenl Di pl Bird & Hedgers 
Asstt, Bird and llcilgers 
Clncl Idler, Jcssop & Co Ltd 
Mamiger, Macmillan Co 
Mams clomter, C 10 S C Ltd 

Director, Imperial Tobacco Co of Lidia Ltd . . 

Asstt, It 1 ! (India) Pte Ltd 

Dist Reset vations Manager, Air India International 

Asstt A eett, Mercantile Bank Ltd 

Sr Asstt, Cladstonc Lyall & (Jo Ltd 

Asst Accounting. Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 

Asstt, Rainier Laurie tV Co Ltd 

Dev Kngr, Union Carbide India Ltd 

Asst. Slum Wallace & C»>, Ltd 

Circulation Manager, Statesman Ltd 

Officer, National & C! randlay s Bank 

Director, A. M. Mair & Co. Pte. Ltd. 

Structural Drawing office, Jessop & Co Ltd 


Chartered Bank Bldgs. 

Bit t o. 

b.4 Netaji Subhas Road 
21 M Bo\n bazar Street 
Victoria House 
.47 ( Jfiowringhee 
111 Cliowringheo 
4 BaJhotisie Square (East) 
8 Netaji Subhas Road 
4 luiirlie 1*1111*1* 

.47 ( 'howTinghee 
21 N<‘taji Subhas Rd 
1 »V 4 Braboiiriio Road 
4, BanksJia II Street 
4 ChowrjiiglKH* Square 
41 Chowringhe*) 

14 India Exchange Place 
63 Netaji Subhas Road 



14 


No. 


N&mea. 

D 


Style or calling. 


Besidenoe or pl a «. of 

business. 


703 Daga, Basanta Kumar 

704 Daga, Mohan Lai, BOOM, ACA . . 

705 David, Lionel Joseph 

706 D 'Costa, L. M. 

707 D. Cadwallader 
70S Dan, Kamalkinkar 
700 Daniel, E. 

710 Davis, D. G. 

711 Daniel, Sydney Wilfred, use 

(Hons). 

712 Darrel, C. L. G. 

713 Darn, Sushil Kumar 

714 Das, Ajit Kumar, ma 

715 Das, Amarnath, BEE, AMIE 

716 Das, B. 

717 Das, Basanta Lai, ba 

71 S J);i.s, Bimal Kumar, mso 

719 Das, B. P. 

720 Das, Bislmu]>ada, hmic amik 

721 Das, Debajyoti, mso 

722 Das, H. 

723 Das, Himanshu 

724 Das Gupta, Inclu Bhusan, BCOM 

725 Pas, dagudish, M A 

726 Das, J . 1\ 

727 Das, J. L. 

728 Das, K. K. 

720 Das, Kamal Lochan, BA 

730 Das, Kaliprosad, BA 

731 Das, Kshudiram, ma 

732 I >as, K unuid Sankar, Msci 

733 I )es, L. IL, nso 

734 Das, Madhusudan, ma 

735 I >as, M i Ian k r. 

736 Das, Moiimoliaii, nso 
73/ Das, Mukul Ch, Msr 
738 Das Gupta, Bhami. BA 

730 Das Gupta, Nani Gopal, msc 

740 Das, Niladri Chandra, use 

741 Das, Pranab Kumar 

742 Pas, Promotho Nath, bs<\ Bcom 

743 Das, It. N. 

744 Das, Rabindranath, ma 

745 Das, Rabindra Nath, MA 

746 Das, Hamei idea Kumar, msc 

747 Das, »S. 

748 Das, S. K. 

740 Das, S. It. 

750 Das, Samir Kumar, BSC, BCOM 

A(A 

751 Dae, Satgur, ba, cat b (L end) 

752 Das, Satyendra Kumar, ma, Hid 

753 Das, Satyendra Prosanna 

754 Das, Sul >ir Chandra 

755 Das Sunilangshu, boom 

756 Das, Suraj Lai 

757 Das, Suryya. Kanin, msc 
75S Das, Thakur, mcom, cub 
750 Das, S. C. 

760 Das, Uuia Sankar 

761 Dhh, Upendra Mohon, boom 


Asstt, A W Figgis & Co Pt>c Ltd 
Asstt, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 
Asstt, Labour Dept Bird & Co Pie Ltd 

Office Asstt (Supplies), Imperial Tobacco Co of India 
Ltd 

Asstt, Turner, Mossiron & Co Ltd 

Traffic Asstt, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 

Asstt, Bum & Co 

Asstt , J Thomas & Co Pte Ltd 

AhsU to Secy., Associate Electrical Industries 
(India), Ltd. 

Sales Dept, Indo Burinah Petroleum Co Ltd 
Personnel Mangr, Imjierial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Professor City College (Coin Dept) 

Asstt Klee Engr & Maintenance, Supdt, Home (Pub) 
Dept 

Administrative, Guest Keen William Ltd 
Director Calcutta Industrial Chemicals & Minerals 
Co Pte Ltd 

Prof, Bungabasi College 
Asstt- Turner, Morrison & Co Ltd 
J nsp of Factories, West Bengal 
Lecturer, Presidency College 
Asstt, Indian Iron & St el Co Ltd 
Asstt, Indian iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Staff Officer, The Chartered Bank 
Leet, Gornka- College of Com A' Business Adman . . 
Asst-t, Oil Deptt, Bird & Co Ltd 


Asstt, I C I (India) Pte Ltd 
PRO, E Rly 


in iei jsoii jiiiijjuiieei mg 


Sah‘s Exueutive, Orient. Longman's Ltd 


Asstt Prof, Moulana Azad (College 
Professor, Surendra Nath College 
Aeet , Mil 1 1 m Burn 

Loetuier, Goenka College of (bmimm 

Asstt, Mains Engr, C K S C Ltd 

See Officer, Tata- iron &. Steel Co Ltd 

Lecturer, Presidency College 

Stall Asstt, The Chartered Thank 

Prof, St Xavier's College 

Sales Chemist, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 

Structural Estimating Office, Jesosp & Co Ltd 

Asstt, Mart in Burn, Ltd 

Asstt, 1 C 1 (India) Pt-e Ltd 

Professor, Vidyasagar College 

Asstt Prof, Moulana Azad College 

Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Asstt, 1 C J (India) Pte Ltd 

Asstt , I C 1 (India) Pte Ltd 

Asst-t. Acet-t- Officer (Cousin), E Illy 

Asstt, Martin Burn Ltd 


D-6 Oillan-l. r 
B-4 Gilluiulcr ]i„ u * 
Chartered ^ 

Buildings 
37 Ghowrnighec 

6 Lyons Range 
37 Chowringbce 
12 Mission R<>\\ 

8 Mission Row 
6, Mission Row 

Gillanders II ous<* 

37 Chow ringing* 

13, Mirzapore Street 
Writers’ Buildings 

41 Chowringher 
43 Dharanitalla Street 

1 6 Scott 1 ,aiic 
6 Lyons Range 

1 Hastings Street 
86/ 1 College St reel 
12 Mission Row 
1 2 M ission Row 
4 Netaji Subli.is Road 
210 Bow I >azar Sun-i 
Chartered li.i,. 

Buildings 
34 Cii<nvrmgliee 
Esplanade Mansion 
2 1 Theat re R-owd 

17 ClnUainnj; 
Avenue 

8, Wellesley Si rect 
24, Harrison Road 
I 2, Mission I Io\\ 

210, Bow bazar Street 
Vietoria Himim 1 
23B Net a |i Suhliii^ IL; 
86 I Col'ogr Street. 

4 Net aji Subluis Read 
30 Park St . eel 
6 Church Lam 
63 Netaji Subliiis lk»ad 
12, Mission Row 
34 Chown iij li< e 
39, Shankar Ghosa Liuk 
8 W’ellcsL\ St n et 
Ditto. 

34 Chow rmgliec 
34 ChowTinglu r 
38 Chovmnglicc Rd 
12 Mission Row 


Asstt, Davenport & Co, Ltd 
Lecturer, Calcutta University 

Chief Engineer, Civil. The Braitliwaito Burn & 
Jessop Constn Co, Ltd. 

Asstt, James Finlay & Co Ltd 
Ditto 

Mg Dir, Stew arts <Xr Lloyds of India Pte Ltd 
Prof, Vidyasagar Colleges 

Offioer, Karamchand Thappor & Bros Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Stores Purchase lieptt, Bird & Co Pte Ltd 

Asst, Martin Burn 

Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 


6, Church Lane 
Senate House 
P-13, Mission Row 
tension . 

2 Netaji Siil-lm." 

1 Hftist.ings .Surd («l» 
floor) 

41 Chowringbce M 
39 Shankar \ jim 

25, Brabourne F <,a(1 
Chartered 
Buildings 


12, Mission Row 
8, Council Hon* 


762 Das Gupta, A., MSC 

763 Das Gupta, Anil 

764 Das Gupta, Angsupati, ma 

765 Das Gupta, Asit Kumar 


Prof, St Xavier’s College 
Civil Engr, Mckintosh Bum, Ltd 
Prof, Surendra Nath College 
Asstt, Mather & Platt Ltd 


30 Park of"'*/ R 
8, Netaji KiibW'J' 
24, Harrison Bo»® 
7 Hare Street 



Names. 


• ]) ;i s Gupta, Binode Kumar, 

MA(Com), EL, B, ASAA, ACA 

• pas Gupta, Bepin Behan 

, Jus Gupta, Bhagabat, MSO 
, pas, Nalini Bhusan, BA 
i R.t* Gupt a, Chidanauda 

])as Gupta. Chitrajit, bee 
» pasgupta, J>. 

; Pas Gupta, Deb Kumar, ik'om 

AC 'A 

t pasgnpt a, flotiriudra, MA 
; J ), is Gupta, Ivalyan Kumar 
; RasgupLa, Kaiiak Jl.uijaii Bsc 
(< ;» I ) BSC (Tech ) 

Rus t upta, Kumar Kanti, 

, Pas Gupta, Niranjan, bee 
])as Gupta, M. ( k 1\1( DM 


Style or calling* 


Asstt, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 

Kngr, John Thomson (!) Pte Ltd 
Lertun r. Presidency College 
Nupdt C, (\ The Centra 1 Bank of India 
Manager, Advertising Dept t, imperial Tobacco Co 
<»f India Ltd 

Mains Knur, C E S C Ltd 
Personnel Officer, E Rly 
Asstt, Biid A: Co (Pte) Ltd 

PhJ, Si \.i\ M*r \s C< #llege 
Leet urer, Sanskrit College 
As.'J Sub-St at ion Engineer, C E S C Ltd 

Ass i.t , Engr., Dept. Bird & Co. Pte Ltd. 

Kier I lisp, Direct e oj EJt*et rieity 
Prol, Surendra Nath College 


Residence of place of 
business. 

B4, (Jdlander House 

4, Fair lie Place 
^t*/ I , ( ‘ollrge St re« t, 

55 Netaji Su nhas Bead 
57 Chorw inghee 

Victoria House 
E Rly House 
( bartered Bank Bldgs 

JO, Park Street 
Sanskrit College 
DO Prmeep St net 


J)as Gupta, NinuaK i.du, BKK . . El,-,- Ins. DuoHo.aU- ,.f Kiel, icily, WVst Bengal 


Pas Gupta, Nirinalendu, ma,a(;a 
D.is Gupta, Nirnial Kanta, BA . . 
Pas Gupta, Nisikantn, msc 
P as ( hi pt a, Pabilra, Kumar, BCOM 
Pas Gupta, Phani Bhusan. BCOM 
\( 'A 

PasGujita, Promatha Nath 
1 ).i^ < i upt-a , Pra.vir Kiim.n.MA .. 
Das Gupta, Premtosh 
Das Gupta,, Protip Kumar 
Dasgujita, R. C. 

i>,is Dry, Bijoli Bhusan IK'OM .. 
C.\. 1 JB 

DasM (l p t .a, Rajendrak uinai , MSe 
Pas Gupta, S. 

IDs Gupta, iSailcndru Nath, MA 
IDs Gupta, Santi Kumar. MA 
Das Gupt a., Satya Banjan, boom, 

CAiir. 

b» \ , I ><-\ ilatla, MA 

(,111,1a, Sili lVas.-ul, HA (lions) 
Das Gupta, Suhrungsu K., bcom 
D as Gupta, Sudhanshu Bhusan, 
ma. BCOM 

bas Gupta, Surendra Kumar 

bas Gupta. Su jit Kumar, msc . . 
Ris Miarma, A . K . 
bus Miami a. H . 
l>.ivar, M. S. 

ipecr.-.r, Alfred John 
pun. O. ('. 

A. VV. H. 

JJa u, f . B. .win Cam], hell 

uImui, W. R. 

J. S. 
ba\al, p. 

Auauda 

J)eJ A | , , t ; > ^ ulUa L caiib 

r)(, L Asini Kum; 

ACA 


ar, BA, BCOM, 
b^A^ tU ^ Sandra, msc 
hi j>!H l,as Jla njan, msc 

I) ( .o 4S J 11J Up<idrt, MSO. 

]j. Jbailiar 
If idu Bhusan 

Iw J i y £ i8h Chandra, ma 
w 1 iv. 

V\^ risllntt ^ban 
* ^oranjan 


Asstt Prof, Goenka College 
Asstt A< <*t t , C E S C Ltd 
1 1 1 >h ‘ smi . Ban:'. i hast ( \»| lego 
Ass 1 1 , All.tha l),i<{ Bank Ltd 
Asstt. Price Waterhouse Pent A' Co 

i ns]) ot A Cs, II O, Port Commissioner 
Stall Officer, Chari ored Bank 
Assistant, Shaw Wallace & Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Macneill & Barry, Ltd 
Oist Engr, (5 (Jell), E Rly 
Snpdt, Tiie Central Bank ol India. 

1 oj. Iki.nga hasi C«>I lege 
Asstt. Indian Iron A Steel Co Ltd 
Asstt DroJ Publicity, Home (Pub) Dept 
Loci , ( *it \ t 'otiege 
Supdt (Olftg), B B ol* India 

Drol, Sin ( iidi a Nath College 

Asstt, Dunlop Rubber Co (India) Pt.r Ltd 
Supdt, R B ol India. 

Asstt Mngr, Semdia Steam Navigation Co Ltd 

Acetg. Supdt 
India, Ltd. 

Asstt Pioj, Presidency College 
Jr Asstt, G lasdl one Lyall & Co Ltd 
Asstt Personnel Officer, E Rly 
Partner, 8 R Batliboi & Co 

Asstt, William: on & Magor & Co Ltd 
Mech Engr, E Rly 
Sub- A cot t. The ( ^bartered Bank 
(’ovrmml.-d 011ii;cr, National &. Grindlays Bank 
Ltd, Ll<»\ d,>, Bruneh 
Sub Aeet t , R B of India 

Mercantile Asstt, Mackinon Mackenzie & Co 

Asst l , Jnrdtnc Hi'mltason J^ld 

Asstt , Imperial 'fobaeco Co of India Ltd 

Sub-Aeclt, Resc.rve Bank of India 

Asstt, Maenill & Barry Ltd 

Chief Aeet t., T E Thomson & Co Ltd ” 


Chartered Bank 

Bml< lings 

] Haris h Mukherpu* Rd 
-4/ U Mahatma Gandhi 
Road 

1 Hai ish M ukherjee 
Road 

JIO, Boy bazar Street 
V leloria I louse 

ID Stott l.aii(‘ 

I 1 India I’Nehange Place 
B-4 Gillaijflej House 

15 Strand Road 
I Ncfaji S u ! ' J •, i ‘ Road 
4, Bankshall St,re(»t 
J, Fairlie Piaes 
E Rly House 
J.l Netaji Suhhas Road 

JD, Scot | Lane 
U Mission Row 
M 1 1 1 < is Buildings 
I DIM Amherst St reet 
N, Council House Street 


< Li in lh i 


M 1? Mahatma 
Road 

oy-I> free Seliool S(rt‘et 
Ditto. 

JJ Nelaji Suhhas Road 


r I he Imperial Tobacco Company of J7, Chowrimrheo 


Prof, City College (Com) 

Sub Editor, Statesman Ltd 
Lecturer, Presidency College. 

Supdt, Bills Inward, Central Bank of India 
Asstt, 1 (' 1 (India) Pto Ltd 

Sales Engi*, Associated Electrical Industries (Ind) 
Pte Ltd 

Prof, City College (Com Dept) 

Asstt, The Alkali & Chemical Corpn of India Ltd 
ARstt Engr, B. B. & J Construction Co Ltd 
Lecturer, Calcutta University 


SD-] College Street 
4 Kail lie Place 
K R J\ H oust' 

IB, Old Post Office 
Street 

4 Mangoe Lane 

J.S, ( :ho\v i mghe(‘ Road 

4 Netaji Suhhas Road 
JD Netaji Suhhas Road 

5 Council House Street 
i b Si re /id Road 

4 Cli v e Row 
J7 ( 'how rmghec‘ 

S, Council House St reet. 

J Kaiihe Place 
DA Esjil.made East 

1J Mirza.])in Street 
4 Chow mie bee Sijuare 
St)/ 1 College Sin (J, 

*J.‘k Netaji Suhhas Road 
54 ( Low i ingle i* 

15 Rajendra Nath Mukh- 
erjee* Road 
15 Alirzapur Street 
54 Chowringiiee 
P-15 Mission Row Extu 
Senate House 



No. 


Name*, 


16 

Styk or oalling. 


827 Dey, M. G. 

828 I)o, Nuhadwip OJ uulra 
82!) De, Nageudra Nath, MA 
S3< I De, Nirrnalendu, nso (Eng) 

831 Dey, N. N. 

832 Dry, I*. B. 

833 Be, iv k. 

834 De, Prakash (Chandra, MA 

835 Dr, Raghunath 
830 Dr, Ram I lari, MA 

837 Dr, R. IV 

838 D(‘, Suk umar, use 

839 Dey, S. iN. 

SK) Braves, Alan Charles 
SI l D<‘1>, A. 

842 Deb, Anil. Kr, mho 

843 Deb, As!) it Kumar 

844 Drl), Shandilya, K. MSO 

845 Dehnafh, At ill Oh, MSI 1 

840 Del mat h. Aswini Kumar, mscj 
S 17 l)eb Rov. Gopalcndu, mho 
SIS I >rrl holts, Loon 

SI!) Demetrius. IT. 

Sot) Domet rins, St John 

501 Do S.t, Railon (Dr), use 

50 2 Dt ‘.si kail, IV, BA 

853 Deroek, James D’Ealli 

854 Dosai, T) K 

855 Dosai, N- K. 

Soli 1 )osfti , V. D., BOOM 

857 I >e.di Pa lido. K - M . 

858 Dosikuu S. \V, ma c a lilt 

859 Devlin, E 

St it 1 Drwar, lan George Stephen 

Sti | l)r\\aii|i. R. L. 

Still Dr, Wilson G. B. 


803 J ) Rozario, ( 1 . 

St >4 J) 'Souza. A. 

Stir» D ’Souza. Anthony, ma, ijt, 
l’Kos (Loud.) 

St iti D Souza, L. A N. 

StiT D’Souza, (1. M. 

80S Do’Soiiza, Joseph, use, Ttons 
Sti!) D Sou/.a, T. E., A(1I 
S70 Dliar, Mukul C -h . , MA 
S7J Dliar, K. IV, MSO 
87- Dhar, Parinial Kanti, BSC 
873 Dliar, Saehindra Nath, MSC 
S74 Radio ka, Prasad, MSC 
87 5 J>ha\van, Auand Kumar 
S7ti Dhawan, Jagadi.di 
S77 Dhawan, K., ikiom, aca 
878 Dliar, Nirmal Chandra, BS( 1 
ST!) Dhir, A. S. 

8 St > Dickinson, Stanley 

SSI Didiersorre, Torrence 1 B. 

882 Boig, D. A. 

SS3 Dolphin, A. C. Hornilla 

884 Deodar. Ashoke Kumar 

885 Doshi, S. R., bsc, ms 
880 Doshi, IV A. 

887 Doss, J. Rana 

888 Dolivala, IV K., llb (Bombay) 

889 Dors, F. 0., ba 


Renidenoe or pl l06 , 

busineHs. 


Asstt, Indian Iron & Stool Co Ltd 
Acotg Snpdt, Tho IniporiaJ Tobacco Co. ofTndia, Ltd 
Prof, Banguhasi College 

Asstt Engineer in-chargo, Comm., Associated Electl. 

Industries (India). Ltd. 

Asstt, Indian Iron Steel Co Ltd 
Asstt, Marneill & Barry Ltd 
Dist Signal <Sr Tele-oom-Engr, E Rly 
Insurance Official, Commercial Union Assurance Co 
Ltd. 

Asstt, Hoare Miller & Co Ltd 

Ch Asst ( , Bank of (’Kina 

Asstt Ex Engr, Port Commissioners’ Office 

Partner, Talbot & Co 

Asstt, I 0 I (India) Pte Ltd 
Asst, Jnrdn o Henderson Ltd 
Asstt , Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Lecturer, St. Paul’s College 

Asstt Engl, Associated Electrical Industries (ind) 
Pte Ltd 

Stall Officer, State* Bank ol India 
Led , Presidency College 
Plot, Bangabasi College 
Prof, St. Xavier's (Nil lege 
Sr Asslt, Gladsmie Lyall & Co Ltd 
Asst t , Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Chartered Aeett, George R(‘ad A’ Co 

Prof, St Xavier's College 

Officer. National A Grnadlavs Rank Ltd, Lloyds 
Branch 

Asstt, Delay ions Steel A Co Ltd 

Asstt-, Jardine Henderson, Ltd 
Asstl, Kilburn <& Co Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Hank ot Bans la Ltd 
Asstt, It 1 ! (India) Pie Ltd 
Sujxlt, o e, Central Bank of India, 

Asst, Maenril A .Barrs 

Engineer, Associated British Machine Tool Makers 
(India) Ltd 

Asstt Aeet s Officer, A (1 Bote/al 

Asstt, Stall Manager, Impel ml Tobacco ( ( o of India 
Ltd 


12 Mission R 0u 
37, Chowring hoe 
25/1 Scott La i if - 
0, Mission R ( , w 


12 Mission R ow 

2 Fail lie P| au . 


Ohowriiif-hm, 


38 
.‘52, JJ.iIIk 


5 Fairhe Place 

15 Brahounie l;< M ,| 
15, Strand Road 
Tower liou.sr, r| 10 ^, 
ringhi‘e Kigaiir 
34, CIiom ringing. 

4, Cli\e It ,w 
4 Clive Row 
33/1, Amht TSl StlVft 
13 Rajemifa ; 
Miikhei’iee lh, ll( j 

3 Strand I toad 

Sti/ 1 ( 'ol li i g(‘ si rc< t 
1!), Scott Lane 
30. Park Street 

4 Fairhe Pl;i< <■ 

4 011 \ e 1 tow 

Avi'IUlr i loii.e P|„i V . 

rmghee S<|ii ne 
30 Park Sire. < 

2!) Net aji Sid. hie 


14 ( )h l Louit I he, 
Street 

4, Clive Row 
2 Fairlie place 
I llOl a IN. hittiL’e, t’llai 
3d ( 'how i ur.diet 
33 N T <*taji Stihliio li< 
LV Fairla* Place 
c; old Po-.t o.Mar mi] 


Tre.ism \ Bmluui''.*- 

,‘>7 ( 'll. >\N l lirjlte. 


Asstt, Place, Siddons tV Cough (Pie) Ltd 
Asstt Meeli Engr, E Rly 
Prof, St. Xaviers College 


0 Lyon-- I tail". 

38, t 1 e tw 1‘ingl “C llitf 
30, Part k Sire, t 


Aeet I, National <S: Crandlays Bank Ltd 
Asstt Water Chemical, Biid A Co Pt<* Ltd 

Asstt, Bengal Chamber of Ooiiunrreu 
Asstt, Northern Assura.net* Co Ltd 
Jr Ex Officer, Bengal Nationa I ( Chamber ol ( 'oinmerce 
Prof, St Xavieis' (\»lleg(‘ 

Salt's Asstl. Metal, Marlin Burn Ltd 
Lect, yioiilana Azad t'ollegt* . . 

Prof, liangahasi ColU'ge 
Aeet l, James Warren & On Lid 
Br Manager, Imperial Tobacco ( *o of India Ltd 
Asst-ts Aeett Dept, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 
Asstt, Audit Office, Eastern Railw ay 
Meeli, Eng, E R ly 

Asstt, Industrial De]itt, Bird & Hedgers 

Asstt, Labour Dept-t, Bird & Hedgers 

Asstt Editor. Statesman Ltd 

Asst. Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 

General Woiks. Jessup & Co Ltd 

Mangr Retail, Standard Yaecuum Oil Co 

Asst, JCI (India) Pie Ltd 

Asst, Macneill & Barry 

Sec Officer, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 

Banking Officer, R B of India 


t) ( ‘It HI . h L-ine 
( '-hart ei e. 1 ^ 

Binldm;.’.’ 

0, Netaji Sul.lms ft 

7 Han* S' *'eei 

P- 1 I .Mission lleii kxj 

30 Park 8 1 reel 


12 MiVaoji h'eu 


8 WeUeslex S:uC 

25/1 Scott ha lie 
31 , Chow i mu her 
37 ( ho\M i iigl 1( ' ( ‘ 

3], ( Ha.w i h ni1 
10 Si land le.ad 
E RL IIoum* 

(’hart < red IkuiK 


dings. 

Chart! n d , 11 
4 Ch(owinvlu‘ ,N l 11 ' 
4. Bunl.-e.il 
C2 N-'laji 


I, Unc- 

rinj'ht‘ P 

■ I ’law , 

■ Sul*ri 

cStrt 



Names. 


pouch. K. J. 
pi.ikc, J. Alexander 
pivwith, D. E 
I >ua, Krishna Lnl 
|)ul>e. B. K. 

Dudley , D. C. 
j )m lw ndkur, D. N. 

])uiHc»u, John Menicoll 
Dunkill, B. J)- C. . . 

]).„ kwoilh, Bt. Sir R. Dyce 
|>„rkwort h, Horace Edward, be 
1 >ull;ir* 1 . Norman Gay 
pud A. K - ^ 

| « >< >r, J'. T. 

Riltta. A. K. 

j >ut t , Amiya Kumar, msc* 

J >ui I . A^okr, BE (Cal) 

Dull a Asliim K., ma 
I jut i . I >< joy Kumar, ami Moc.e, 

A.MIL (llld), A Mil A (Lolld). 

Huiti. Blmbun Mohan, MA 

J lull, Benodc Behan, msc 

putt Bhabotosh, ma, nil) (Dr.) . . 

pui i Hidyut, msc 

PuH.l, Ihnnchi Kumar, msc 

pud, i, Btrinchi Riimnt, MSC 

Pud Bli.ibatosh. J\1A 

pud . P K. 

pud Clmndi ( J). 

1 Mil t , I Muiendru ( Miamlra 

I >ut 1 , I Murendm Nat h . . 

Put la Clutfatosh, mho 

Pud . Dhruhn Kumar 

T ) nt 1 . i , J >jgh hjjoy, msc, ld’iiiL 

bun i. i Mil,, I Chandra 

1 Jut 1 , ( hrija 

J Jut i 1 1 rid. ay Ki , ms<’ 

Pud, Indu Bhusun, jjcom. aca . . 
Pud, Jatindra N. M. com 
I Ju' I •! dm n ( Miandra 
Pum.i.J. 

I >ud . ,) \ nt i.sti ( Landrn 
Put i .» Kali Kumai , (Dr.) 

Pu : , KanaiJal 

Put-t Kaaiaulal, MA (Com) 

Puli Kanina Kanta, BA 
I Jill I Krdi.i \ ( h. 

P'a i.i \i,diad< \ . MSC 

P'lii.,, Mobil Kumar, BSC 

P 'd M* ma I Kanl i 

dud Man ju Bhusun, MA, BL . . 

Pud, NaLTcndra ( Lundru 

P'*d i N.ncndra Mohan, MSC 

Putta, Nunai Charan, msc 

lM| d NirmalCh, BA 

Ntrnml Chandra, ma 
hint I* ( « 

] ,uri Ah’ipendra Nath, ma 
Jjud |*. k. 

!| utt > P r a full a Kumar, msv, 

, ut P ^* f 'dish Chandra, msc 
’ ,, tu PunyaBrata 

,utt Jl.MA 

)utt * 1 Podandra. Nath, msc 


hiiMu. It, 
hutt. 


dhcyshyam, MA 


, ■ hanajit, Kumar, BA 

jj* 1 bashhchari 

r ’ I 1 ; 1 ’ iiathindra Nath, MA, RT 

Utt * R, BS C 


hutt. 


Suchindra Nath, ma, 


huttu!s K F<,Aj PSAA ‘ 

■ bun k amariit 
J>utK b ' * uur Ranjan, ma 
w - ^ambhu Nath, mso 


Style or ealling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


Asst t Turner, Morrison & Co Ltd 
Asstt Acctt, Mercantile Bank Ltd 
Asst, 1CI (India) Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Mineral Dcptt, Bird & Hoi Igors 
Asstt J Thomas & Co pte Ltd 

Maintenance Dept, Indo Burundi Petroleum Co Ltd 
Aiehiteet, Mackintosh Burn &, Ltd 
Asstt, Jute Mills Dcptt, Bird &. Hedgers 
Mug Duvdor, Jardinc Henderson Ltd 
Br Manager, James Warren cV Co Ltd 
Asst, W illiamson Magor & Co Ltd 
Asstt, James Kmaly A Co Ltd 
Administrative, Guest Keen & Williams Ltd 
Asstt Acctt, Statesman Ltd 
Asstt, Killmrn A Co Pte Ltd 
Lecturer, Presidency College 
Conti Kngr, C K »S C 
Prol. Vidya.->;ig.i r ( College* 

Inspector of Factories 


6 Lyons Range 
S Netaji Nu hints Road 
24, Chowrinhoo 
Chartered Bank Buildings 
S Mission Row 
Cillander lions 
S Netaji Suhhas Road 
Chartci\ d Bank Buildings 
4, Clive Row' 

JI Chowringhec Road 
4. Mangoe Lane 
- Netaji Suhhas Road 
41 Chow ringhec Road 
4 ( 'how riughee Square 
2, Fairlie Place 
80-1, College Street 
Victoria House 
2P, Shankar Gliose Lane 
J , J I ast ings Street 


J au t , City ( \ dlegc 
Lecturer, City College 
Professor, Presidency College 
Prol, Surendra N College 
Prof, \ idyasagar College 
Prol, Cit-y College (Exenine) 

Asstt Prol, Presidency College 
Asstt, 1 C L (India) Pte Ltd 
Asstt , Bird A Hedgers 
Asstt, dames Warren &. Co Ltd 
Indian Asstt, Mercantile Bank Ltd 
Asst. Prol, Presidency College 

Asstt Personnel, Imperial Tobacco Co ol India Lt< 
Prof, Vidyasagar College, 

Engl, Babcock & Wileo ol (Ind) Ltd 
Acctt, Upton Ltd 
Prof, Surendra Nath College 
Asstt Acctt, Brooke Bond India, Lid 
Prof, City College, Com Dept 
Ci\ il Knur, Mackintosh Burn Ltd 
Sub-Editor. Statesman Ltd 
A^tt, Burn A Co Ltd 
Asst Prol, Sanskrit. College 
Asstt Mains Kngr, C E S C, Ltd 
Prof, City ( College (Com) 

Asstt, Place Siddons .V, Gough 
Salt Room Asstt. Biooke Bond India Pie Ltd 
Prolossoi. Bangnhfu-i ColIeg< 

Eugr, Babcock <Sr W’lieoee oi (Ind) Jdd 

Admimst rat i\ e, (hirst Keen & Williams Ltd 
Sii]>d1 . Stall 1 Bank of India 

Sr Office Asstt, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Id Jd 
Prol, (Mix Collecr<» (Evening) 

Prof, Vidyasagar College 


lOg/J Amhresl Street 
J02-1, Andierst. Street 
Shy I, Coll(‘g(*. Strecd. 

2 1, Harrison Road 
JP, Shankar Gliose Lane 
102/1 Amhrest Street 
Stf I ( College Street 
J4, ( , liow ringhe( k 
Clia rtere Bank Buildings 
,‘il Chowringhec Road 
S Net aji Suhhas Road 
Sh-1 , ( !ollege Street 
J7, ( ’how ringhc‘(‘ 

JP, Shankar Ghose Lano 
I & J Bra bourne Road 
P, Weston Street 
24. Harrison Road 
Brooke House 
JJ. Mirzapore Street 
N Netaji Suhhas Road 
4 ( Low riughee Scjuaro 
1 2, jM issii >ii J ti > w 
Sanskrit Collegia 
Victoria House 

1 ‘ » , Mi r za pur Stn *< * t 
b, Jiyons Range 

2 Met ealte St 

I P, Scot t Lane 

J J Bra bourne Road 

41 Chowringhec Road 
J Strand Rd 
7, Chowringhec 
102 1 Amhrest St rret 
JP. Shankar Ghose Lano 


Jr. Oflieer, Life Insuranet* (Corporation of India., 
1 findusthau (1o-o]»erative Inau ranee Society 
L(‘e, St. I 'aid's ('‘ollege 
Asstt. T C I (India.) Pte Ltd 
Asst t Acctt, Central Bank of India Ltd 
Dist Conti* ol Store's (Cons), E.Rly 

Assti. ProTessor, i'reMicic»ney College 
pTofessor, St Xavier’s (’ollf'gi' 

Asstt, James Warren <Vr (^o Ltd 
Professor. St PhuI’h College 
Asstt, Birtl & Co (Pte) Ltd 

Prof, City College (Evening) 

Jr Aett, Associated Elect 1. Industries (India) Ltd 
Super, Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Asstt, Dunlop Rubber Co (India) Pte Ltd 
Asstt. Secretarial Dept-, India Aluminium Co Ltd . . 
Asstt, India General Navigation & Railway Co Ltd 

Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Inspector of Aeetts, Port Commissioners 
Asstt, Scottish Union & National Insurance Co 
Prof, St. Xaviour’s College 


■1 ChiLtaranjan Avenue 

JJ-I, Amherst Street 
24 Chow riughee 
22, Netaji Suhhas Road 
E Rly House 
80-1, College Street 
20, Park Stnsd 
21 Chowringhec Road 
22-1, Amherst Street# 
Chartered Bank Buil 
dings. 

102 I Amherst St- 
0, Mission Row 
21 Ralhousic Square. 
f»7B Fern School Street 
21 Chowringhec Road 
4, Fairly Place. 

12 Mission Row 
15, Strand Road 
6, Lyans Range 
30, Park Street 



18 

No. Names. Style or calling. Resident 0 r rL 

business. 


983 

Dutta, Saktipada 

. . 

Secy, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 

4, Fairly ]»i uct . 

984 

Rutt, Santi Bikash 

. . 

Manager, James Finlay & Co, Ltd 

2, Notaji Subhas 

985 

Dutta, S P 


Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 

12 Mission J‘,>u 

988 

Dutt, Satya Ranjan, bsc, aca 


Accountant, Associated Electrical Industries 

(India), Ltd 

8, Mission J» ()W 

987 

Dutta, Satyendra Kumar 


Sub Editor. Statesman Ltd 

4 Chowringb H . g 

988 

Dutt, Satyendra Nath 

. . 

Asstt, Burmali Shell O S D & Co of India, Ltd 

Hong Ivong jf 0Ufc| 

989 

Dutt, Sliyamapado, BCom, P & 
ofllB. 

I 

Supdt. (offg), R. B of India 

8 Council House u 

970 

Dutt, Shyamal Kumar 


Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 

4, Bankslmll Ntre 

971 

Dutta, Subhas Chandra, MSC 


Professor, Bangabasi College 

19, Scott Lane 

972 

Das, Subhas Chandra, MSc 


Lect, Presidency College 

88/1 College Street 

973 

Dutt, Siibhondu, msc 


Lecturer, Calcutta Technical School 

110, Kiircndm 
Banerjee J toad 

974 

Dutt, Sudhir Kumar 


Staff Asstt-, State Bank of India 

3 S tar nt 1 Koad 

975 

Dutta, Subodh, ma 


Prof, Vidyasagar College 

39, Sankar (lliost* 

978 

Dutt, Subhrojyoti, BCom, ACA 


Asstt, Priee Water House Peal & Co 

B-4 Gillan.ierllou 

977 

I )utt, Sudhamoy 


Chief Valuer <fc Swererger, Port Commissioner of 
Calcutta. 

15 Strand Rond 

978 

1 )utt, Subodh Kumar 


Supvr Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corpn 

31 1 )albousi<‘ Stjiiai 

979 

Dutt, Sukumar, use 


Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 

8, Council Iloiiwf 

980 

Dutta, Sunil Kumar, ma 


Staff Asstt, State Bank of India 

3, Sfr.'ind Uoad 

981 

Dutt Gupta, A jit Ranjan, ma 


Deputy Secretary, Bengal National Chamber of 
Commerce. 

P-i 1 , Mission Km 
tension. 

982 

Dutt Gupta, Nagesh Ch., msc 

. . 

Prof, Bangabasi College 

1 9, Scott bam* 

983 

Dutta Gupta, Ranjit Kumar, 
Bcom 

Asstt, Harrisons & Crosfield Ltd 

8, Church Lam* 

984 

Dutta Roy, B 


Asstt, Indian Tron & Stool Co Ltd 

12 Mission Row 

985 

Dutt Roy, Birendra Sankar 


Cent Engr, G E C 

8, ChiMarahjan A\e 

988 

Dwyer, Gerald Bertram 


Asstt, James Finleys & Co Ltd 

2 N<d.n ji Sul ili.i 1 ' Kfl 


E 


987 Eaddy, C R 

OSS Eardloy, R S, ACII 

989 Easdon, A J 

000 Easson, William Gordon 

A.O.W.A. 

001 Easson, «1. W., oa 

002 Eastwood, J. A. 

000 Edic, Jhon Ramsay 

004 Edwards, JR 

995 Edwards, H J) 

000 Edwin, W. J. 

007 Edy Peter Edward 

005 Ekaubaram, S 

000 Elias, Moses Sassoon, MA 

1000 Elloy ■ 1>. A 
IOO! Elsey, V T 

1002 Esplen, James Rslio 

1003 Evans C. 

1004 Evans.jW 

1005 Evans, I. W. 

J006 Evers, K. E. 

1007 Evrall, Roger 

1008 Eyes, N. W. 

1009 


Director, Bankline (I) Pte Ltd 
Manager, Norwitch Union Fire Insurance Society 
Ltd 

Jr. Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 
ca., Chief Aectt, Bird & Co, Ltd 


6 Lyons Range 
8 Lyons Itance; 

4 Fair lee Rian* 

Chartered Bank Bi 


. Asstt, Gillanders Arlmthnot & Co Ltd 
Asst, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Asstt, Aectt, Mercant ile Bank Ltd 
Acctt, National & Grindlays Bank Ltd, Lloyds 
Branch. 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Administrative, Guest Keen Williams Ltd 
Civil Engr, Mackintosh Burn (Pte) Ltd 
T)y. Ch. Mech. Engr. E. Rly 

Principal, Elias Meyer Free School & Talmud Torah 
Journalist, Statesman 
Jr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 
Managing Director, Place Siddons & Gough (Pte) 
Ltd 

Chartered Secy, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Asstt Production Manager, Imperial Tobacco Co 
of India Ltd 

. P A to Erection Supdt, English Electric Co Ltd 
. Mg Director, J Thomas & Co Pte Ltd 
. Mg Director, Alfred Herbert (India) Pte Ltd 
. Asstt, Norwich Union Fire Insurance Society Ltd ... 


GillaintT Houm 1 
4, CIi\ e Rev 
8 Ndfiji 1 

29 Nctnji Sulili*' 

4 Sin-el 

41 ('lio« rnit;h<»‘ 

s/Ncmi' ' s " 1,!liU< 
K Jilv . , 

50 , Sr 

4. (’how rmtrlHf ■ 9 
4 Fairl< <- I’ 1 !"' 1 ' 
fi Lyon 1 - 


4 Clive K"' v 
37 Ch.)«riii«l |(,f 



Names. 




S T o 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


F 


[DIO 
[<>1 1 
ml:! 
ioi:i 

[014 

nur» 

[010 


1017 
1 1 » 1 s 

lull) 

nun 


Falconer, W C 

Fcrgic, Allan Maegregor Smith . . 
Ferguson, Ian Gilrnour 
Fernandez, Leo Menino, be 
(Meeh), M Tech 

Ferrior, J 
Ferris, Nissien 
Fielder, C. J. 

Fitzgerald, llaughton Keane 
Fitzgerald, George Dennis 
Augustine 
Fondekar, V Tv 

Forage, Ronald diaries • . . 


Aeett, Mercantile Rank Ltd 
Partner, Lovelock and Lewis 
Architect , Mackintosh Hum 
Sales Kngr, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 

Asstt, Macneill & Barry Ltd 
dr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 

Child’ Technical & Executive Officer, Slialimar . . 
Tar Products (19.25) Ltd 

Si- Executive, Balmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Mang Director, Avery & Co of India Pte Ltd 

List Elec Engr, E PJy 

Asst . Supdt, Construction Dept, 0 E S C Ltd 


[njl Foibes, R 

Iiijj Forman, »Tohn Henderson 
liU.l Foidvood Donald, c.a,a.c.a. 
H>l' 4 Forsyth, A. C. Williams 
jnj;, Foster, William Kenneth 
liijr. Francis, .1 

|o_*7 Franks, Rodney Jack Stonely 


Asstt, Macneill A Barry Ltd 
Asstt, Ba lmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Assistant, Jarcline Henderson, Ltd 
Asstt, Carritt Moran & Co Private Ltd 
Cenl Mangr, Salt's, Imperial Tobacco Co of India 
Assistant, Turner Morrison Co, Ltd . . 

Mg Director, A W Figgis & Co Pte Ltd 


I ill's Fraser, D, *1 1* 

[lU ‘,1 Frederick Donald Collins 


Asstt. Aeett-. National and (Trindlays Bank Ltd 
(IJoyds Branch). 

Aeett, Oetanius Steel (Jo Ltd 


ln::o Fmleriek, ( ieorge Law renre 
HHI Fost Foster, M M 
KU- Frugtneit, C I) 


Aeetts Dept, .Jessop & C<» Ltd 

OHict% Asstt, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 

Asstt, Haurc Miller A Co Ltd 


£ Netaji Subha s Road. 

•4, Lyons Range 
8 Netaji Suhhas Road 
0, Church Lane 

2 Fairlie Place 

4 Fair! it' Place 
(>, Lyons Range 

21, N(‘taji Suhhas Road 
Avery House 

E Illy House. 

Victoria House, Cliow- 
ringhec Square. 

2 Fairlit* Place 
21, Netaji Suhhas Road 
4, Clive Row 
0, Mission Row 
.‘17, Chowringhee 
(>, Lyons Range 
DO, Cillandcrs House, 
Cal-1 

29 Net aj i Suhhas Road. 

IT Old Court House 
Street. 

02 Netaji Suhhas Road 
.27 Chou ringhee 

5 Fairlit) Place. 


G 

I 11 -*.! Cahriel, Austin Leon 
1 ( >.]4 Cadre, Bhaskar Ramehandra, msc 
L inger, E. E. 

1<l ^ Bunapathi, S 
10:57 Banguli, A K 

Lanai, Amarendra Kr, MA 
]m Banda, Sukdeb, MA 
Bandhi, Shiv Chander 
Banguli j Ajit Kumar, msc 
Banguli, Anil Ranjan, MCom, ACA 
^ Banguli, Amrit-a Lai, ma 
^ Banguli, Bijoy Kumar, msc, Phil 
Hirendra Chandra, msc 
j ( J Ganguly, Hemanta Kumar, ma 
Banguli, Ip 
^ ^nguly, M K 
L Ganguli > Nemai Chandra 

On», m Parboty Charan, aga . . 


Asstt, South British Insurance Co, Ltd 
Suptd, State Bank of India 
Manager, Calcutta Office, Associated Elect 
Industries (India) Private Ltd 
Asstt, Jardino Handerson Ltd 
Asst,!,, Indian Iron and Steel Co Ltd 
Jveet, Moulana Azad College 
Supdt, State' Bank of India 
Aeett, Balmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Prof., City College 

Asstt Ri'gr, Office of the Itegr of Companies 
Professor, Vidyasagar College 
Prof, Bangabasi College 
Asstt Professor, Presidency College 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Asstt, Macneill &. Barry Ltd 
Asstt Acetts Officer, A D Bengal 
Asstt Mains Engr, C E S C, Ltd 
Asstt, Aeett Dept, Bird & Co (Pte) Ltd 


10, Netaji Suhhas Road 
2, Strand Bond 
ieal 1.2, Rajendra Nath 

Mukherjee Road. 

. . 4 Clive Row 

12 Mission Row 
. . S Wellesley Street 
.2 Strand Road 
21 Netaji Suhhas Rond 
102-1, Amherst Strt'Ot 
27 Brabourne Road 
. . .20, Sankar Chose Lane 

25/1 , Scott Lane 
80- 1 , College Street 
. 39, Sankar Ghose Lane 

2 Fairlie Place. 

Treasury Buildings. 

. . Victoria House 
. . Chartered Ba nk Buildings 



iNo. Names. 


1051 Ganguty, P 

1052 Ganguli, PN 
Ganguli, Pashupati, ma 

J < 154 Ganguli, R L 

1055 ( languli, S K 

1050 ( Janguly, S N, G C I Final pt I of 

II B. 

1057 Ganguli, Salil Kumar 

1058 ( iangnli, Stibmla, MA 
1050 Ganguli, Sudhamoy, MA, BT 
I Olio Ganlzer, B I) 

1001 Ganguli, Sudhamuy, MA 

1 002 Ganguli, SuHliil Kumar, use. Boom. 
1005 Ganguli, T. N., ma 

1004 Cangwal, Kaporehand, ncom 

I < M>5 ( iarewal, B S 

1000 Gatos, Rood (J H 
1007 Gales, W G 

1005 Guur, P C, BSC 4 , MA, LLU 

10#i0 Ga v, I > W 

1070 ( jJa/.der, N. 1). 

1071 Gollatly, K. M. 

1072 Geiunieil, Mieheal John 

1073 George, P 0 Bse(Kng.) 


Style or calling. 


Administrative, Guest Keen Williams Ltd 
Asstt, Com Supdt, E Rly 
Prof, City College (Com) 

Oflfieor, National fc Grindlays Bank Ltd, Lloyds 
Branch 

Asstt, Mooli, Engr, E Rly 
Sub Aeett, R B of India 

Lecturer, St Paul's (College 

-1 »* Ex-ofiieer, Bengal National Cliarnbor of Commerce 
Prof, City College (Com) 

Asst, James Finlays & Co Ltd 
Prol, City College* (Evening) 

Partner, Lovelock & I^ewis 
Prof, Nurotulra Nath College 

Manager, Asiatic Oxygen & Acetylene Co Ltd 
As, sit, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Asstt, Turner, Morrison & Co Ltd 
Engr, Upton India Lid 

Purchase <Xr Tral)i(} Manag<*i , Indian Aluminium Co 
Ltd 

Asstt Manager, Chartered Bank 
Asstt, l.C.l. (India) P & E Ltd. 

Asstt, Turner Morrison & Co, Pto Ltd 

Asstt. Rainier Laurie t V Co Lid 

Chief Engineer, Indian Aluminium & Go Lid 


Residence or p| ac(( 
business. 

4IChowrin K h,, j lo , 
.3 Koilaghat Sth*f t 
13, Mirzapur Kirret 

21) Netaji Suld 1;is 

E Rly House. 

8 Council Tlnus,. 

33/1, Amherst St root 
PI I Mission U,, w 
13, Mirzapur Street 
2 Netaji Suhha.s |{ f>a ,{ 
102/1 Amherst Stn,.] 
4, Lyons Range 
24 2 Harrison L\, ;u j 
8, Dal ho us i e, Sf|r 
4 Clive Bow 
6 Lyons Range 
0 Weston Street 


31, Chou ri uglier 
( -alcntta-lU 
4, Netaji iSuhhas 1 
31, ChouTinghoc 
0, Lyons Range 
21, Nolan SuI.Im 
31, ( ’how rmgliec 
Calcutta- 16 


R* ku| 
icinl 


■ IvMII 


J 074 

George, PT 

Asst., Manned] & Barry 

. . 2, Fairtie Place 

1075 

George, T V, BA, ACA 

Aeett, Martin Burn Ltd 

1 2 M ission Row 

1076 

Ghatak, Auantamoy, dph (Lond) 
GIEE. 

Asst t M a i ns Engr , ( 'ES( ) 1 A d 

V ictoria House 

1077 

Ghatak, (apt. Bhupendranal h 

Cal Marine Supdt , Seindia Steam Na vigation < \» 
Ltd. 

33, Netaji Nuhlias Lad 

J07S 

Ghatak, Promotha Kumar 

Sub Aeett, State Bank (Park St B r) 

Queens Mansion 

1071) 

Ghatak, Nakuleswar 

Sr Asstt, Aeett. Port ( ommissioner of ( Tdcuttu 

1 5, St rand Hoad 

10S0 

Ghatak, Nirmal Chandra 

Jr Asstt, Gladstone Lya!! & Co Ltd 

. . 4, Fuirlie IM.u e 

10SI 

Ghosal, Amalendu, bmp, MTecli, 
a M iic (ind). 

Lecturer, Oalentta Technical School 

. . J 10, S. N. Balierjrr 1vl ^ 

1082 

Ghosal, Amitava 

Asstt, Engr. 1FB & J Construction <V, Co Ltd 

. . P- 13, .Mission How I 

1 OS 3 

Ghosal, Gautam 

Asstt, Imperial Tobacco Co of India. Ltd 

37, (TlOW IMigher 

I0S4 

Ghose. Debabrata, MA 

Staff Asstt, State Bank of India 

3, Strand Read 

I0S5 

Ghosal. Ilirondra Nath BA 

Asst < Audit OUicer, Eastern Railway 

1 6 St i and I o m 1 

10S6 

Gliosal. Kahtlas, Msc 

Pr i lessor, Bangabasi College 

. . 25/ 1 , Scot 1 L nie 

1087 

Ghosal, Amiya Kumar MCom CA 

Jr Officer, Life Insurance Corporation of India., 
Unit, Sunlife of Canada. 

23B Netaji NnMi.e L 

loss 

Ghosal, Kumaresh, use, lee 

Comm. Engr, Associated Electrical Industries 

. 13, RajendruN.ith 3fi 


10S<) Ghosal, Madhusudan, msc 
10!)0 Gliosal. N K 
101)1 Gliosal, R. N. 

1002 Ghosal, Ramesh, Kr MA 

1003 Ghosal, Samarendra Nath, msc, 

rlid 

1004 Ghosal, Sibcndranath, ma, nrniL 

1005 Ghosal, ITpendra Nath, use (Lond.) 
1000 Ghose, A. K. 

1007 Ghost?, Aloke Kumar, d r ji, 

A 1 fi E 

DOS Ghost*, Amitava, ucom, ca 
1000 Ghost*, A K 

1100 Ghose, A. 1\. 

1101 Ghost*, A K 

1 102 Ghose, Amalendu Nath, bcom, 

AC A 

1103 Ghose, Amiya, MSc 

1104 Ghose, Amiya Kumar, bsc% giee 

1105 Ghose, Apurba Kumar, MSc 

1106 Ghose, Arun Kumar, ma (Double) 


Prof, Surondra Nath College 
Asstt, Indian Tron & Steel Co Ltd 
Asstt, Turner Morrison & Co. Pit* Ltd 
Asstt, Martin Burn Ltd 
Professor, Presidency College 

Prof, Bang abas i College 
Professor, Presidency College 
Dist Opp Supdt, E Rly 
Asst- Mains Engineer, 0 E SC Ltd 

Asst, Allahabad Bank Ltd 

Hand Manager, Port Commissioner of Calcutta 
Asstt. I C i (India) Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Aeett, Steel Bros & Co Ltd 

Loct, Calcutta Technical School 

Asstt Mains Engr, CESC Ltd 
Lect, Presidency College 

Prof, City College 


kharjee Rond 
24 / 2 , llarrbou Haul 
12 Mission Bov 
6, Lyons Range 
12 Mission Rou 
86-1, College Street 

25/1 , Scot t Lane 
86-1, College Street 

Eastern Rly 
Victoria House, Oh 
r inghee N/nan* 

14, Tndia K\<haugr 
15 Strain 1 let.nl 
34, Chowniii-’hee 
12 Mission Re' 1 
Gillander House 


• l^ 


110 S. N. 

Victoria House 
86/1 College 
102/1 ‘ " 


.*K< 



Name*. 


21 

Style or o&lling. 


Residence or pl&oe of 
business. 


Uiose, Anin Kr, Msc 

Ihosi:, Asit Kumar, ma, aca 

(hoso, Asisli Kumar, 

;liosc‘, A K 

, As< >kc, Kr, MA, 

| ho se, Atal Beliari 
[llosr, B. B., ma 
[ l( sc, Baidyanal h 
IkJl, Balaram, BCOM, ansa 
| 1( ,sr, Barindra Nath, BA 
|| 14lS . , H irindra Kumar, msc 
; l, 0>sr> Uholanalh, MSc 
Jliosr, Bidliu Bhusan, ma 

Bireiulra Chandra, be, 
aiui'* 
ilioso, B K 
;j 1() s<‘, B K, MMCI 
;i l0i3(s Bliolanath, ma 
[hose, Bhupendra Nath, 
lU'OlIl, CPA 

liosh, Birondra Nath, ma 
■ hose, Braja Copal, bme 


!li<»sc, C- 

hoHC‘, ( !liit<t.i.raiijaii, ma, rns 

liosr, l)il>yendu 

Jin.sr, Dcvapmsad. BEE 

h<»<\ ! MuroiK Ira Nath, BSe, BE, 

CK. AMIR. 

host*, Dilip Kumar, MA 

hose. Bilip Kumar 

hose, Copal Ch, G 1 Mooli ’E . . 

(Lon.I), 

iiOSl , ( r 1 ) 

host*, II. M., MA, Dip SW 
host-, llarithiK, BA 
I tost*, Jugamiath, MA 
iiost Jilondra Nath 
host*. K.unalesh, MA 
lio.so, Kamalaprosad, ma 
hosr, Kamj il Kr, 
hosr, Kauai lal 

hose, Kanak, bsc, BCom, aca . . 

host*, Kartick Chandra 

hosi i , K I i . t g» u it 1 n i B 1 m na i i , b a , bsc 

hoM-, Krishna Ch, msc 

lioso, J\ uni ud Bandhu 

hos*, Lakshin i Charan, MA, AS, 

MA, AC 1 A 

liosc, Lahti Kumar, msc 
Wsc. ALulaii Mohan, ma, bl 
i\h >hon, i>so 
Manojmoy, bsc, diipc 

Aff, n()ran j an 

Lancia Dulal 
’ Nandalal ma, d rhil 
Kaicsh Ch. 

NVipomlra Nath, BA 
Xirmal Chandra 
'° se > Xinnalya Prosad 

fUOSti, p 

rho ^S Nitondra M 


l,M: * ^*dlav Kumar, BCom, aca 

t.Z' p' l,i,n 1 itl Bhusan > ms ° 

v'p numb - BE 

C*' J/^anta Kumar, MSc . . 


I*radip Kumar, mso 


Loct, Maoulana Azad Collego . . 8 Wellesley Street 


Asstt, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 

Structural Engr, Jcssop <fc Co Ltd 
Asstt Com Supdte, E Illy 
Professor, Bangabasi College 
Acctg Supvr, Standard Vacuum 
Asstt Controller, Stationery Office 
Asstt, dames Warren & Co Ltd 
A cot, C.E.S.C. Ltd. 

Asstt Mangr, Orient Longman’s Ltd 

Professor, Bangahas* College 

Loct, St Pauls Catliedrol Mission College 

Asstt Prof, Maulana Azad Collego 

Dy Chief Valuer, Calcutta Improvement 


B4, Gillander House 

. . 63, Nctaji Sublias Load 

3 Koilaghat Street 
25/1, Scott -Lane 
6, Church Lane 
3, Church Lane 
31 Cho\vringh<*e Bond 
. . Victoria Home 

17 Chit-tarn njan Avenue 
. . 25/ 1 , Scott La nc 

32/1 Amherst Street. 

8, Wellesley St-root 

Trust . . 10, Netaji Sublias Road 


Internal Auditor, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd .. 31, Chowringheo Road 

C M E, Coal Board . . 1 Council House Street 

Lecturer, Presidency Collego .. SO/1, Collego Street- 

Audit & Aeett Officer, Calcutta University . . Calcutta University 


Professor, Bangabasi College 

Engineer, Associated Elect! Industries 
(India), Ltd 

Asstt 1. C. I. (India) Private Ltd 
Professor, Scottish Church College 
Asstt, Indian Iron & StinJ Co Ltd 
Jr Engr Associated Elctl industries (India) Privt Ltd 
Project Engr, Planning, Planning & l)<*v Dept, 
Corporation of Calcutta. 

Prof, Siirciulra Nath College. 

Asstt, James Finlays & Co Ltd 
Lecturer, Calcutta Technical School 

Asst t, Kilburn & Co Ltd 
Asstt Labour Commissioner, West Bengal 
Sales Asstt, Metal Dept, Martin Burn Ltd 
Aoet , Martin Burn 
Supervisor, Rail is India Ltd 
Loo, Maulana Azad College 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
I use of Ac’s TId Office Port Commissioners 
Asstt, Metal Dept. Martin Burn Ltd 
Asstt, Aeett Deptt Bird & Co 

Asstt Acctg Supdt, Imperial Tobacco Co of India . . 
Accounts Asstt, Indian Cable Co, Ltd 
Professor, City Collego 


25 I Scott Lane 
13 Rajendra Nath Mu- 
kherjee Road 
34, Chowringhee 
3 ( oriiw a llis Square 
12 Mission Row 
6, Mission Row 
5 S N Bauer joe Road, 

21 2 Harrison Road 
2 Netaji Sublias Row 
110, Surendra Nath 
Banorjee Road. 

2 Fairlie Place. 

New Secretariat Bldgs. 
12 Misson Row 
12, Mission Row 
10 Hare Street 
8, Wehesly Street 
30, Sankar Chose Lane 
15, Strand Road 
12 Mission Row 
Chartered Bank Bldgs 
37, Chowringhee 
0 Hare Street 
102-1, Amherst Street 


Asstt Aeett, Associated Electrical Industries (India) 13 Rajendra Nath Mu- 
Private Ltd. joe I load. 

Asstt, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co . . Rj (inlander House. 


Asstt in Math Presidency College . . 80/1, College Street 

Labour Adviser, Bengal Chamber of Commerce . . 0, Netaji Sublias Road 

Professor, City Collego . . 102/ 1 ^A ml Mu st St reet 

Jr Engr Associaed Elctl Industries (India) Privt Ltd 13 Rajendra Nath Mu- 

klierjee Road 

Dopt Supdt, The Eastern Bank Ltd . . 14 Netaji Suhlms Road 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd . . 4 Bankshall Street 

Professor. Presidency College . . 80-1, College Street 

lupr ol A C’ s TTd Office, Port Commissioners . . 15, Strand Road 

Stall" Offr, State Bank of India . . 3 St rand Road 

Traffic Asstt, Calcutta Tramways Co Ltd . . P-4 Mission Row Kxt.n 

Jr. Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & (Jo Ltd . . 4 Fairlie Place 

Asstt, Indian Tron <fe Steel Co Ltd . . 12 Mission Row 

Asstt, Tech Dept, Associated British Machine Tool 0 Old Lost Oil ice Street 
Makers (India) Ltd. 

Asstt, Tech Dept, Associated British Machine Tool 0 Old Post Office Street 
Makers (India) Ltd. 

Prof, St Xavier’s College . . 30, Park Street 

Works Mngr, Martin Burn Ltd . . 12 iVlissiouJRow 

Loct, St Pauls Cathedral Mission College . . 33/1 A rnherst Street 

Controller of Imports and Exports . . 4 Esplanade Last 

Prof, Bangabasi College . . 25/1 Soott Lane 



No* Names. 


1160 Ghosh, Iiakhal Chandra, ma 

1 170 Ghose, Rabindra Nath, MCom 

1171 Ghose, Rabindra Nath, BCom, ACA 

1172 Chose, RC 

1 172 Chose, Ramcsh Chandra, MA,rhi> 
(Load). 

1 174 Ghose, Rani Krishna, 

1175 Ghose, R. K. 

1170 Ghose, Sachindranaf h 

1177 Ghose, Sachindranath, BSe, 

CA1IB, AUl 

1 17s Ghose, Sachindra Nath 
I 170 Ghose, Sailen Chandra, use, ukk, 

AM I K 

I ISO Chose, S K 
I I Si G I lose, 8 K 
I |S2 Ghose;, Sailcndra Kumar 
I I SR Chose, Naehiiiandan 
I I s | Ghose, Sailendra Nath 
1 I S."> ( * i lose, Salil ( /1 m m Ira , MA 

1 ISO Ghose, Samir Kumar, MSe 

I 1ST Ghose. Namirendrn Kumar, BA 

I |SS Ghose, Saiijib, MSe . . 

Ms!) ( those, Santanu Kumar 

MOO Ghose. Sautosh Kumar, nn(Mich) 
(Calcutta) AMU'’ (Loud) amie 
(I ndia). 

] 101 Ghose, Saral Kumar 

1102 Ghose. Sat \ ahrat a , ,\l'\ (Loud) 

II 02 ( Jhose, Shihapmsad, HCom 

I MM Ghose, Sisir Kumar, use 

I 10., Ghose, S K, BSe (Engg) 

I I !)0 ( those, S. li. . . 

I 107 Ghose, S It, MCom 
I I OS Ghose, Sruliraj, use., use (Loud) 
MOO Ghose, Subliransu 

1200 ( those, Suhas Ch. 

120! Ghose, Sul, has Kr. MSe, DIMiil .. 
1202 Ghose., Suhhas Chandra, bail 
1202 Ghose. Sndeh l>lm, sail. MSe 

1201 Chose, Sudhondu Narayan, msc, 

GDA. 

I20o Chose. Smlhindra Nat Ii 
1200 (those, Sudhir Kumar. ACA 
1207 Chose, S M, BA, BL 
I20S (those, Sudhir Mohon, MSe, boom 
1200 (those, Sudhangsu Ranjan, ma 
1210 (those, Sukimi.ar, ma 
121 I (those, Sukumar, MA, LLB 
1212 Chose, Sunil Chandra, BSe, Dl l I 
(Bond) 

J 2 1 2 Chose, Smiit Kumar 

1214 Chose, Sydney Salil Kumar, msc 

1215 Chose, Tamil Kumar, use (Cal), 

use (Elc, Engr) use (Mech) 

J2I6 Ghosh, Tejomaya, msc, fjla 
J 21 7 (those, Ushanath, MCom 
J21S Ghose, Barman, A jit Kumar, ma 
J 21!) Chose Dastidar, J. B., MA, ACA 
(India) 

1220 Chose Dastidar, S 

1221 (those Dastidar. K C, BA 

1222 Ghose Majumdar. Nuhhendu, MSe, 

I)Phil 

1222 Giani, N. S., BA 
J 224 Cil»bs v JP 
1225 G id ley, A G 
1220 Gidwani, G. M. 

1227 Gidwani, N M, BSe, BE, MT f 

AMIE 

1228 Godenho, D E 

1229 Goenka, Narayan Prosad, MA . . 


22 


Style or calling. Residence or pj, 

business. 

Professor, Bangubasi College . . 25/1 Scott L;, n ,. 

Com Asstt Voltas Ltd . . 8, Netaji Sul»h.^jj 

Asstt, Price Waterhouse Beat &. Co . . B-4 Giilnudcr }| (ll 

Asst Engr, Port. Commissioner Oflice . . 15, Strand R U( ] 

Asstt Prof Pres idencey College . . 80/1, Colleg.- Strn 

Professor, St Xavier’s College .. 30, Park 

Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd . . 12 Mission |;.) U 

Asst, Drawing Oflice, Jessop & Co Ltd . . 02, Netaji Suhli^ 

( Silent f ,i- 1 

Sub Acett, The Chartered Think . . 4 Netaji Nu » di.e* ] j, 


Asstt Engr, Cal Tramways Co Ltd 
Asst M. tins Engi , C E S C Ltd 

Asstt, Commercial Sujxlt, E RIy 

Asst t, Time Table Officer, E RIy 

Sub-Acctt, Reserve Bank of India 

Genl Asstt Bjrla Bros 

t’h I'uisoiinvi Ullicer, O. E. S. 0. Ltd 

Stall officer, v ‘hat ton d Bunk 

Proi, St Xaviour s College 

Sujxlt , B B ol I ndi.i 

Pi of, ( Mv ( Mllr»/‘* (Evening) 

Asstt, Bird Hedgers 

Insp of Smoke Nuisance Diete, Smoke Nuisance 


P4 M ission Kuw E v 
Victoria II >u ( . ( 
ringhee , U Mr 
3 Koilaghai 8 i»cm 
E RIy Do,,,. 

8, Council Iinii.1 >; 
8, India Evlruiiri. 
\ ictoria ITou 1 '* 

I Ncl.ij, Si i • 1 1 . t j; 
30 Pa’k Sil.-tt 

8 ( Mum ii r : .^.i n 

I I >2 - i A • 1 1 1 1* i 

( Mi.u 1 r:v { 1 “> . 1 1 Bn* 

0t)J». t ‘l.nw • m-iiii 


Asstt, Mams Engr, C. E. S. C. Ltd 
Asstt. Pnei- Wateliou.^ Bent »V (M 
Staff Officer, Tlie. Charteicd Bank 
Supdt, Reserve* Bank ol India 
Engr. Indian Aluminium (M Ltd 
Asstt Aeeounts Officer, E RIy 
Proi, St Xu \ icr ’s ( U > 1 1< *jc 

Chief Inspector, Smoke Nuisance Dir**ef urate . . 
Engineer-ill charge, Associated Electmal Jmlustrii 
(India), Ltd. 

Jut Auditor, Jessop iS: Co 
Asstt Prof, M. mlana Azmi College 
1 lisp ol Boilers, Director of Boilers 
Piol, Bamiihasi College 

Asstt Accountant, Associated Electrical 1 ndu.M i ics 
(India), Ltd. 

Aeet I . Lij)ton India Lid . . 

Asst t , Gilland( i r.s Arhulhuot & Co Ltd 
Well ai c Oftn rr, DAG, P K T 
Professor, Vidyasagar College 
Lecturer, St Paul s ( M liege 

Professor, St Xavier’s College . . 

Prof, (’it \ College 0 'om) 

E H T Engr, Mains Deptt, C E S C 


Victoria 1 1 1 xic 

B4 i-.it , ... • i: 

1 , \ef l4 (I ,S ■ j i In iv. 

8, ( Minimi ! f -,i n 
31 I 'lair « ii, ia 
E Rl\ H i . 

;;«• I 1 1 u k *i. ■ - 


-oi* « r 

03 Vt-i 
S Well. 4 V M'. ' 

I , l La, C?r ' ’ M ■ ♦ 
1'5 | s, !' I 

13 !:«!•’ 1 Vlf 

1 Iri" h ■ e | 

0 W i- ' ■ i 

Gill imli : 1 1 j 

7 Ko.i k >c ! 
3<», Shank. * Hliovi 
33 I, A mi k* ,-i >vM 
30, P.nl- Mf-ii 
] 3 Sm • .. '• N '"' 1 

Valon.. 1 !■•»■' 


Asstt Engr, Associated Electrical Industries (1ml) 13 l*uj< n<h 

Pte Ltd. kite? ' d 

Assistant, Gillaiidcrs Arbutlmot & Co, Lt<l .. Cli\e l>mMi 

Asst , Si i I » # S i n, Engr, (■ E S C lJd .. U:»- P MI,, ‘ 1 


Actuary Life Tnse. Corjm Eastern Zone 
Sfaff Officer, State Bank of India 
lecturer, Surendra Nath College 
Aeett, C E S (’ Ltd 

Asstt Aeet Is Officer, E RIy 
Asstt, Indian Aluminium Co Rt<l 
Prof, Bangabasi College 

Dy Asstt Controller, Iron & Steel Controller 
Asstt, Jardine. Henderson Ltd 
Secy, Martin it Burn Ltd 
Dy Chief Acctts Officer, E RIy 
Operation Mangr, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 

Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Asstt, Octavius Steel and Co Ltd 


Hindu th 


3 Str.uM .. >7 

>4, Huni'ni. k^ ld 
Victoria il" 15 " 

31 < u" v • in • 

25 l 8c.'H h; ,nr 

•W N.-l-j* Sl, '’ hl ' 

4Clt\. I'"" 

1;>. Mir ' 

K i : I II"' 1 "' 

6 (‘jiii. !' L* 1 " 1 ' 





Names. 


23 


Style or calling. 


::to 

:si 

*•»*> 

j:u; 


■y,\s 
j:;« i 

JK 
:M j 


i!4:; 


Jii 

jjr. 

j 17 

:s 

jr* 


y.\ 


’.it' 


.'no 

.'ii! 

.'•■J 


SI 


[hi, 

u~ 

T|\ 


Oocnka, Madhav Prosad 
(ioho. Katan Chand 
Goings? Albert, mcom 

Gonsalves, M R 
Goldsmith, William Nic holas 
( ioines, A J, MA 
< kmies, B E 
ijniiies, B C 

(jollies, Francis, ha 
( }< lines, L, ma 
G omez. Bertram Lawrence 
( joinezc, RJ) 

GolUCZC, R. S, 

Gopal Krishnan, C E, BA 

(;.ij) t il Krishnan, J* V. BA 
(lore, Satish Jaswant, BSc (LoncJ), 
A (' G T 

Gonsalves, 1 A L 

Gm adia, P . . 

(ioswami, A N, MC’-om . . 

Goswami, A joy Kumar, ha 
( J( pf*\\ a, my I* N 
( .urn, ^ (! 

Goswami, PramatJianatli, MS(i 
(ior.\\ami, E (J, MCom 
Go-wami, Eabindra Nath 
iinMi. mu, Satycndranat h, msc 
( in.-w ami, Srikrishna, ma 
Cusuami, IT. 

( ;« >\ md.i.ran jan, MT, BL, ('hem .. 
I7i uzu: . 

Graham, K. E. 

Gracias, Luis 
Grant , J). A. 

( a antiuun Douglas Fardan 
t {j .s\ , James 

\ , Ricliai (1 Nei I 
thven, Bryan McDonald 
Gici n, Gilbert Harold 
Gflllltllh, GhtUVlllo 

Griffiths, Michael John 


Asst i , Octavius Steel A- Co Ltd 
Asst t , Personal Dept , Bird & Go Ptc Ltd 
Asstt Bengal Chamber of Commerce 
Asst t 'fuller, JVIoiison A (o Ltd 
I >i rector, Carrit & Moran A Go, Private Ltd 
Prof, St Xavier *s ( 'o I lege 
Administration Ollicer, Statesman 
Sr (Mice Asstt (Supplies) Imperial Tobacco Co ol 
Lndia Ltd 

In-Charge, Shipping Dept, Alfred Herbert, India, Ltd 
Prof, St Xavier's College 
Chief Wn« ;on Estimator, Jessup & Co, Ltd 
Assft, Agencies Dept, Martini' Burn Ltd 
Asstt. Burn A t Co Ltd 
A A O, I) A G, P A T 
A A (>. I) A G. P A T 

JVlngr, Paterson Engineering Co (India) Pte Ltd 

Indian Ofliei l , Hongkong A: Shanghai Banking ( Wpn 

As.st f , J Thomas A ( \> Pte Ltd 

Secret; i rial l>e])t, Indian A hiniiniiim (to Ltd 

Sul) Aeett, Reserve Bank of India 

Asst Audit ( >0i< er, E Ely 

Sr Asstt Financial Ad\ iser, E Rly, 

Prof. Bangabasi College 
Asstt, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 
Wagon Draw ing Office Jessup & Co 
L«v M.iu hina Azad College 
Plot, \’id\ .isag.tr College 
Asstt, Maekinnon Mackenzie. A. Co, Ltd 
Asi-tt, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 

Asstt Opp Supdf, E Rly 
Asstt, Rallis (India), Ltd 
Asstt, JardiiK' Henderson Ltd 
Sr Asstt., Gladstone Lvull & ( to Ltd 
At < 1 1 , Lipton I ndia Li d 

S. deioom Asstt. Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 
Ch Aeett, I ba.fl y & Grasham Ltd 
Asstt, M;d lua & Pliitt, Ltd 

Duet tor and Technical Manage!, George Spencer 
Miinton A < \> Pte Ltd. 

Asst, A Vi Hi am son Magor & Co Ltd 


■ , ' 1 Lului, Arun Kumar, he (Elect) . . 

a \ i I i,jk Grade. Jns. Prod. E. Loud, 
g" Hu ha, Bishnupada. msc 
’J Luh.i, Benutosh 
^ Hull., Bisuajit, msc 


Constr. Engr, C E S C Ltd 

Prof, Cit \ ( folk ge 

Prof, Git \ College (Com Dept ) 

Piofessoi. Bangaba. i College 


“'4 (lul, a, Jaharlal, ma 
d 1 1 h « i , .) K, MA 

* ,h dll hi,.. Dr. Mntunjov Prosad, 
MSeDPhil. 

"J diiha. Prahir Kumar 
“* s 1 * a! m Pra.hhas Kumar 
V * diili (l) Promode Ran jan 

i.ulu.su 

• 1 Sudhir Oi., liA 


Lecturer, Goenka College of Commerce & Business 
Adrn. 

Asstt. Dr Pul), 1 1 oine ( Pu b) Dept 
Asstt T > rof Maulana Azad College 

Asstt , James Kinla % > A C<> Ltd 
Jr Asstt, ChuLfone Lyall A. Co Ltd 
Asstt., Stewarts &. Lloyds of India Pte Ltd 
Asstt, J C | (Lidia) Pte Ltd 
Asstt., Burundi Oil Co (India Trading) Ltd 


1 s K. MA 

,U * M Roy, Nirmal Kumar 

TluikurU, Amid Kumar 

dll 111 , 

V uu , Atiiulra Mohan, ma 
" 0)11 a, Arabindu 
;: u l>ta, A. K. 


MSC 


\l'“i, I IT,, 

gpta, Oilip, MSc 
mipta, D N 
k'l’ta, A L 

gptti. Hireadm Nath, 
Wl a, Joy Deb 


])y Chief ( ’out rollei of Imports & E\) torts 
Asstt, Bird k Heilgers 
Asst, Shaw Wallace A Co Lid 
Asstt, Turner Morrison A Co Pt,(‘ Ltd 
Asstt L*rolb:;s<»r, Presideney College 
W A T, S Calcutta Im]>iovemen< Trust 
Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 
Dy Dr Pub (Dev A. Planning) Home (Pub) Dept 
Prof Vidyasagar College 
Asstt, Maenedl A t Barry Ltil 
Dy Oh Operating Supdt, E RJv 
Leetiuxjr, St Paul’s College 
Controller of Stores Mains Dept, C. E. S. C. Ltd 


Residence or place of 
business. 

14 Old Court Housi* St. 
Chartered Bank Builds. 
0, Netaji Suhlias Road 
(> joyous Raime 
b, Mission Row 
JO Park Street 
4 ( ’how i*l nghee Sipiari* 
J7 ( 'how rimdiee Road 

I J, J, St rand Road 
JO, Park St r or t 
(JJ, Netaji Suhlias Road 
I '2 M is»'%i< m Row 
lii Mission Row 
7 Koilaghat Road 
7 Koilaghat Road 
21 Tln*atre Road 

J1 I )alahoiisie Sijuare 
»S Mission Row. 

Jl ( -how ringhee Road 
S, (\>uneil House St.reeL 
10, St ram 1 R< u,d 
Eastern Rl\ IIoiim* 
l?r> 1 Scot t i^a-ne 
Jl (’howrmglMM* Ro.id 
f»J Netaji Su bh.is Road 
S, Wellrsly St reet 
JO, Sa,nkar (diose Lane 
l<k Strand Road 
Jl ( 'how rimdiee Hoad 

E Rly House 
10, liare Street, 

4 Clive Row f 

1 Fail-lie Place 

0 Weston St reel 

2 Mrfeallc Si reel 

Jl ( 'liitta ra njan Av nue 
7, Hare Street 

1 I A 1 2 1C. oplau.ulr, 

JMansions. 

4, Mangoe J.ajie, Cal 
cutta J 

Victoria House, ('liow- 
rijiglua* S<jiier(i 
102- 1, Amherst. Street. 

U, Sin ya Sen St.rt*ei. 

2.‘>/l Seot 1 Lane 

210, Bowhazar Street 

\\ liters' Buildings 
8 Wellesley Street. 

2 Netaji Suhlias Road 
4 Fairlie Pke-e 

41 ( ’how ringhee Road 
24 < Miownneliee 
2S-20 1 nd ia Kxehimgc' 
Place 

4 K.-planadi l7a t 
( 'hartered Bank Buildings 
4 , I »anl 4i ill St leet. 

0 Lyons Range 
M>/j Col leg« SI net 
10 Netaji Suhlias Road 
12, Mission Row 
\\ i it ei J hi i Id 1 1 ms 
JO Shankar Ghose Lniw 
2 Kail he Pl.iee 
E Ely Jl oii.~o 
32/1, Amherst Street 
Victoiia House 



24 


No. 

Names. 

Style or calling. 

Reaidenoe o. place of 
bnnneas. 

1205 

Gupta EL 

Asst Engr, Port Commissioners 

15, Strand Road 

1 2! Mi 

Gupta, Milan Kumar, msc 

Leo, Presidency College 

.. 86/1, College Street 

1207 

Gupta, Mrinal Kanti 

Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 

12 Mission Row 

1 20S 

Gupta, Mrinal Kanti, ma 

Professor, Bangabasi College 

. . 25/1 Scott Lane 

1200 

Gupta, Nripendra Nath, MA 

Loot in English, St. Paul’s College 

33-1 Amherst Street 

1300 

Gupta, li 

Asstt, Maeneill A Barry Ltd 

2 Fairlie Place 

1301 

Gupta, Sahdcv 

Director, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 

37 Clio w ringhee 

1302 

Gupta, Sbibadas, A C A 

( J A George 1 lead A Co 

Avenue House, ( ), 0w 
ringhee Scpiaie. 

1303 

Gupta, S K 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace* A Co Ltd 

4 Bankshall Street 

130 1 

Gupta, Shyamal Kumar, MSe 

Asstt, Elec Eng Depat t, Mai tin A Burn Ltd 

12 Mission Row 

131 >5 

Gupta, Sudhansu Kumar, ma 

Professor, City College (Com Dept) 

13, Mirzapur Stret t. 

1300 

Gupta, Tapan Kumar, B ME 

Lect, Calcutta Technical School 

lit) Surendr.i Nafli Ji aii 
Banerjee Hoad 

1307 

Gupta Karma, Kslietro Gopal, ma 

Professor, City College 

102-1, Amherst Street 


nos 

noo 

\:uo 
cm i 
1312 


1313 
cm i 
i 3 i r> 
i 3 i <> 

CM 7 
i :m s 
CMO 

1320 

1321 

1322 

i 

1324 

i 325 
1320 
1327 

132s 

1329 

]:«n 

1331 


1332 

1333 
i:m 
1335 

1330 

cm 
133 s 
1330 

1340 

1341 


1342 

1343 


H 


Haider, Dliruba Kumar, hme 
Halbert, John Stanley 

Hall Edward Beruev, ARCS, BSc 
J Falla lay, Stan ley Arthur 
Hammond, A F 

I landtgne, N 1\ 

Henderson, A. K. .1. 

Henderson, Ian Maleolin 
Hardy, H C 

TLarihar, PS 

Hariharan K. BSe, ('A, TIB 
Hareourt, S J L 

I I arris, I > INI 
Harris, J. 

HamsHon, A CM 
Harrison, P I), A( -A 
Harper-Smit li , E M 

Hardy, K J H, F C A 
H arvey, JO 

Hatiram, Pesi Dadibar, BA, ACA 
Hawkins, Jack 
Ha yw oi l h, EC 

Hazra, Ajit Kumar, bme 
AM1E (India). 

Hazra, B D 

Hazra, Basudev 
Hazra, Kajendra Ch (Dr) 

Hazra, San at. Kumar 
Heath, Ronald Harding 

llehh, K 

Heimnad, O S, BME 
JHeridge, F I C 
Higham, G P 

Hill, KB 
Hindmarsh, F W 

Hookaday, D J 
Hollander, TR 


Lecturer, Calcutta Technical School 
Manager for India, Associated British Machine Tool 
Makers (India) Ltd 
Asstt, Bird A Co (Pte) Ltd 
Stores Asstt. Brooke Bond (India), Lid 
Officer, National &. Grindlays Bank Ltd, Llo\ds 
Branch. 

Asstt, B B A J Construction Co Ltd . . 

Dir, James Warcn &• Co 
Ch Aciitt, James Wareu & Co 

Chief Engr A Director, Associated Elec. Industries 

Much Engr, E Rly 
Prob Asstt, It B of India 
Asstt, James Finlays A Co Ltd 
Secy, Statesman Ltd 
Engr. Babeoek & Wilcox 
Asst, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Acett, Makcuiron Maehonjus Co 

Sub-Manager, Nat ional & Grindlays Bank Ltd, 
Lloyds Branch. 

Partner, Price Waterhouse I Vat A Co 
Financial Aectt, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Territory Auditor, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Asst Ccnl Works Jessoji A Co Ltd 
Manager, Supply Depat t, Imperial Tobacco Co ol 
India Ltd. 

Lecturer, Calcutta Technical School 

Dy Asstt, Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel, Iron 
and Steel Control. 

Asstt, B B A J Construction Co Ltd 
Prof, Sanskrit College 

Sales Engr, Babeoek A Wilcox of (Ind) Ltd 
Asst. Commercial Manager, C E S C Ltd 

Asst t Supdt Engr, British India Steam Navigation 
Co Ltd. 

Asstt, Gillanders Arbuthnot 
Sub-Manager, Mercantile Bank Ltd 

Covenanted Officer, National A Grindlay’s Bank, . . 

Ltd. (Lloyds Br) 

Asstt, I C I (India) Pte Ltd 

Chief Manager’s Asstt, National & Grindlays Bank 
Ltd. Lloyds Branch. 

Afestt, James Warren A Co Ltd 

Mg Director, J Thomas & Co Pte Ltd 


110 S. N. Bauer, ee lid. 
0 Old Post Office Stnvi 

( lharte r ed Ba n k ] h n I < 1 i i e 
2 Metcalge St reet. 

20 Netuji Suhhas 1 >ati 

P-J3 Mission I low Ksti. 
31 ClloWTItlgllee Hoad 
3L Chow ringhee Hoad 
13, Kajendra. Natli 
Muklieriie Hoad 
E Kly House 
S ( \uineil House Sim i 
2 Netaji Siiblms lload 
4 Chownnglice Square 
123, Brabouiie Read 
4. Ciivt Bow 
10 Strand Ito.ol 
20 Netaji Subluis Hoad 

B4 Gillander 1 1 OUSC 
37 Chowrmglice Hoad 
0 Church Lais' 

03, Netaji StJdias iWi 
37 ( Tow ringV e Hoad 

110, Surondia ftatk 
Banerjee Load 
33 Netaji Sublia- lb aid 

P-13 Mission Ih.u 
Sanskrit College 

1 A 3 Braboiirne H<»ml 

Vietori.i rK "" 

ringlu - o 

]<> Strand Bond 

(Jillcndir Hcusc. I 
8 Netaji SuM.a> 

29, Netaji Subhas Bo* 

34, Chowrii gbee 
29 Netaji Subba.- Bo 

31 Chowruigboo Bo*** 

8 Mission R°"‘ 



Name*. 


25 

Style op calling. 


Residence or place of 

business 


Hormasji, A J 
Ilornigold, James 
Ilalton, W. D. 

II, ,i Aj it Kumar 
Horberry Timottey (Clifford 
Houghton, David Allan 
||, , mil, George* Edward 
Hutchins, li R 
Hu! chews, W M 
II ulfhesoii, D C 


Secy, Turner Morrison & Co Pte Ltd 

Br Engr, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 

Asstt, Bird & I ledgers 

Asstt, Burn A Co Ltd 

Engr, Lipton Ltd 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace <fe Co, Ltd 

Asstt, Shaw Will lace A r Co Ltd 

i eisonal Manager, Imperial Jobacco Co ol India Ltd 
Br Manager Sales, Im])riial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Asstt, Thomas Duff A Co (Ind) Pic Ltd 


Lyons Range 
.‘{7, Chow ringhec 
Chartc‘i*i*d Bank Buildings 
1- Mission Row 
Sb W ©stern St root 
4, BankshnJ] Street 
4 Bankshall Street 
•>7 ( "how ringhec Roail 
.‘17 Chow ringhec Road 
J ( -live Row 


I 


[nipctt . P. W. 

[n/lt > , I hidley Stanley 

•onuil Md. BSC (Edin) nc 
l.ilia. K S 
\ cn; f ar, M K N 

('li-' i I ktinakr islia n ns<- /Kem.) 
\r». N S 
ycr. K It 


List Op Supdt, E Rly 
Mains .Jointer, C F S C Ltd 

Asstt Engineer (hil Improvement Trust 
ChjirU'i'cd Acctt, Tli, .mas Duff & <!,, (India) I’tc Lid 
Asstt, Burn & Co Ltd 
Sc< \ Avcr\ A. <’■ 

Asstt, I C l (Tndia) Pte Ltd ‘ . 

Administrative, Guest Keen William Ltd 


li Uly House 
V ictoria House, Clmw- 
rmgliee N( jua.ro 
L‘{, Netaji Sublias Road 
*) , Clive i tow 
12, Mission Row 
A\ir\ IIoUm* 
d4, Chowriugheo 
41 , ( Jhow riligliee Rd 


J 


i* nl., ,T K 
'(•■.li, M I> 
l ( ’k.sen, \y H 
ifqitcs, J W 
dl i a \ . I) ]\1 

11,1 W BCom, ACA 
lli! ' Ikmicsli Kumar 


‘lundlnvala Ramanlal Cldiatalal, 
thom, i<x AA 

K C, JMSe 

l,,u ‘ s Ahraiider Moore, CA 


l->aJjit Singh 

•iilmr (; Jv 

l > ar ««u II, ACA 

aka !*, K p 

Doopak Anaut, 

1 (r 

^'1* Brio 

: " Ml " Sunder Das BSc(M< 


. 1,1 1 nil 

l> l: «'A, ACA 

a ’ ^'iiari La], BA, BL 


O,) 


MA, BB(Meoli) 

Ij| m, |> £ 


(, hu 


Malcolm 

'"a. I'oLcrl, Love Holmes 


Siv!i" Boyor 

, n 'mania 
°® 4nneb , Nownan 


Asstt, Jardine Henderson, Ltd 

Asstt Engr, Imperial Tobueeo Co of India Ltd 

Mangr, Mercantile Bank Ltd 

Asstt, J Thomas Ar Co Pte Ltd . * 

Director, Turner, Morrison A, Co Ltd 
Asstt., Price Waterhouse Peat A Co 
Jr Engr, Associated Electrical Industrial (Ind) Pte 
Ltd 

Dy Mg Scindia Steam Nav Co Ltd 
Prof. St Xa\ ier \s Colh ge 

Finance Director, Dunlop Rubb(*r Co (India) Pte 
Ltd. 

Asstt, Octavius Steel & Co Ltd 
Asstt., J Thomas Ar Co Pte Ltd 

Internal Audit Dept 1 , Indian Aluminium Co Ltd . . 
Asstt, Rallis India Ltd 
Asstt, Rainier Lawrie A. Co Lt d 
Asstt, Shalimar Paint, C & V Co. Ltd 
General Manager, Gestetner Duplicators Pte Ltd 
Manager, 1R P, Dunlop Rubber Co (India) Pie Ltd 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson Co., Ltd 
Asstt Mngr, Seindea Steam Nav. Co Ltd 
Asstt (Controller. Stair. u er\ < flier, G*.\1. ef |, C,'; . 
Asstt, Ba.l ooclv & Wilcox 

Asstt to Finance Director, imperial Tobac co of India 
Ltd 

Asstt Acctt, Mercantile Bank Ltd 

Director, A M Muir A, Co Pte Ltd 

Actg Acctt, Hongkong A Shanghai Banking Corpn 

Chief Engr (Bridges), B B & J Construction Co Ltd 

Asst, Williamson Magor & Co Ltd 

Asstt, The Indian Iron & Steel Co LUl 


4, Clive Row 

•17 ( IliowTimrhee Pond 
Mercantile Hank 

5, Mission Row 
(> Lyons Range 

ID ( hJIandci I louse 
Id Rujondru Nath Mu- 
jet* Hoad. 

3J, Netaji Suhhas Road 

JO Park Street. 

f>7B Free School St reel- 

14 Old Court House St. 

S Mission llow 
J I ( 'how i inghee Road 
1 0 1 1 are Street 
J I Netaji Suhhas Road 
0, Lyons Range 
0A, Esplanade East 
. r >7B Free School Street 
4, Clive Row 
JJ, Netaji Suhhas Road 
J. ( l.urcii Lai < 

1 1?.J I Srahow ii<’ Rd 

J 7 ( iiow ringhet; Road 

8 Netaji Suhhas Roas 
14 India Exchange Place 
J I , i >alhousie S(| 

PU, Missnm Row Extn. 
4, Mango© Lane, Cal- 
cutta- 1 

12, Mission Row 



20 


No. Names. 


Style or oaliing. 


Residence or 
businom. 


1390 Joseph, Anthony M 

1391 Jones, J 

1392 Joshi, I) R, BA, BL 

1393 Joshi, G R M, ba, llb 

1394 Joyo *. \V F 

1395 Judge, M S 


Sup Acctt, State Bank (Park St Br) . . Queens Mcuwj ()Il 

Asstt, Turner Morrison & Co Ltd . . 6 Lyons Rang,, 

Secy & Treasurer, State Bank of India . . 3, Strand Roa,] 

Asst, Indian Chamber of Commerce . . India Exchange p{ 

Asst t , Bengal Chamlar of (\ mmt'rcc . - 0, Netaji Sni.L^ | 

Asstt, Shalimar Paint, Colour & Varnish Co Ltd . . G Lyons Rang,, 


K 


1:j 9G Kalra, Rabindra Nath 
j;{97 Kalyarmum, S 
J39S Kalyanvzla, J F N 

1399 Kauhouwa, MA 

1400 Katiango, Bijayananda 

1401 Kapur, Biswesuar Nath 

1 102 Kapoor, A 
1403 Kapoor. I > K 
J 104 Kapur, I >urga Narain 
] |(r> Kapoor, Jagiuohan 
1400 Kapur, J K 

1407 Kapur, Kailash Nath 

J40S Kapur, R N 

1409 Kar, Ashoke Kumar, MSc 
J4I0 Kar, Monorail jail, mA 

1 I 1 1 K ar. Nisi tli Ranjan, mho, Phd 
(Gottn) 

II 1 2 Kar, S 
14 13 Kar, S K 

I 114 Kar, Subodh Kumar, BSe BA 
ASA A ISA (Inr Acct t) 

1415 Kar, Tapash Kumar, B Tech 

1410 Karkoon Arnalkurnar, BA, CATIB 
1417 Karmakar, Haripado, MCojn 

1 I IS Karmakar, Pra fulla ( ’handra, MSC 

1419 Kamat, I) 1), BA (Cantab), BA 

(Hons) (Bom). 

1420 Kar Roy, Rameudra. Narain, BSe, 

BChlO, M( -li K (USA) 

1421 Karnik, B B 
14 22 Kallmri, NS 

J 123 Katariya, M N 
1 424 K Ashe kar, Y L 
J 425 Katro, W K 
i 420 Kati.Nar, I >r R N, Mac, Phi) 

1127 Jvaloch, H S. BSe, IMA 
1 12s Kaul, Promode Kumar 
14 29 Kama, S K 
1130 k«*d,a Ikmaras] Pro'Ci.d 

1431 Kelkar Y 1), Mac (Tech) 

1432 Kelly Frank James 

1433 Khaitan, S S 
1 154 k li i.na, S ( ' 

14 .5 lvhan, Ahhas Ali, MA 
I 130 Khan, F S, BA 
1 457 Khan, ma. booth, aoa (Fng) 

I 43S Khan, Neaz Ahmed, ma 

1459 Khanna, B C 

M to Khanna, Kamal 

J4 4 1 Khanna, Kailash Chandra 

J i 12 Khanna, M M 

J 4 13 Khan, M M, be (Mecli) 

14 14 Khanna, R C , LLB 
1 |45 Khanna, Ram Marti 
14 10 Khauna, Ramesh Nath 
1417 Kichlu, V K 
14 IS Killick, John Neil Charles 
1449 Kinkcad, VV \V, BA 
4450 K mgs ley, A B 
] 451 lvirkua Curthbirt Nail 
1452 Kishore, K 


J)irector, G Atherton & Co (Pte) Ltd 
Asstt, I Cl (Tndia) Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Turner Morrison & Co Ltd 
Staff Of Ueer State Bank of Ind ia 
Asstt, Industrial Dept Bird & Co Pte Ltd 
Sr Asstt, Allahabad Bank Ltd 

Asstt, Janline Henderson Ltd 
Asstt, Kilburn & Co Ltd 

Managing Director, Place, Siddons & Gough (Pte) I 
Asstt, Bengal Flour Mills 
Asstt, Bird & Hedgers 


Siddons & Gough 


Asstt Managing Director, Place. 
(Pte) Ltd 

Asstt , Maer&eill & Barry Ltd 
IiOct, Presidency College 
l*rof, Bangabasi College 
Prof, Presidency College 

Asstt, I C I (India) Pte Ltd 
Asstt Com Supdt, E Rly 
Prof X'iilyas.'gtir College 


Engr, Paterson Engineering Co (India) Pte Ltd 

Stall Oflieer, Chartered Bank 

Supdt (OfTtg), R. B of India 

Lecturer. Prosidenex (College 

Dv Sales Manager, Tata Iron & Stool Co Ltd 


34 Chowring'M* 

0 Lyons Range 

3 Strand Road 
Chartered I^-luK R Ul 
14B India K\d, a 

Place. 

4 Clive Row 

2 Fairlie Blare 
I 0 Lyons Range 
Sibpur, Ilowi’an 
Chartered 
Buildings 
0 Lyons Range 

2 Fairlie Place 
S0/1 ( \ >1 logo St reel 

1 9, Sei >t 1 I i.Mie 
S0/1 Co I leg* 1 st net 

34, Chow nngliee 

3 Koila (dial Strict 
39, Sliankai Clmdil 

21 , Tbeat re link# 

4 Net aj l Suldi.C' ll'i 
S, Council 1 1 o 1 1 m Mi 
80/ 1 ( 'ollegc Mfo ■ 

23 B Netaji Su Mi 


Chemical Engr, Paterson Engineering Co (India) 
Pte Ltd 

Asstt, Shalimar Paint, Coulour & Varnish Co Ltd . . 
Asst t, Jardino Henderson Ltd 
Asstt, 1 C I (India) Pte Ltd 
Jt Sales Manager, Brooke Bond Tndia Pto Ltd 
Cal Engr Supdt, Seindia Steam Navigation Co Ltd 
Sr Asstt for Trisect Section, Zoological Survey of India 
Asstt, Production Deptt Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 
Asstt, Williamson Magor & Co 
Asstt, Macnoill & Barry Ltd 
Director, Anderso" Wright Ltd 

Asstt Director (Shipping), Ministry of Steel, Mines 
& Fuel, Iron & Steel Control. 

Ch Acctt, Lipton Ltd 

Asstt, A W Figgis & Co Pte Ltd 

Asst 1 Acel t Nai 1 1 i;na, & G in 'lay s Bank . . 

Asst Prof, Maulana Azad College 

Asst t Sales Manager, Tata Iron & Steel Co Ltd 

Acctt A & J ma r & Co 

Lee, Maulana Azad College 

Asstt Com Supdt' E Rly (Catering) 

Asstt, James Warren & Co Ltd 

Taxation Acctt, Imperial Tobacco Co of India, Ltd 

Asstt, Mac kin non Mackenzie & Co, Ltd 

Asst, Production Dept, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd . . 

Sales Deptt, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 

Assistant, Macnoill & Barry, Ltd 

Sr Asstt. Gladstone L 3 r all & Co Ltd 

Asstt, Turner Morrison & Co Ltd 

Goal Mangr, Steel Bros & Co Ltd 

Mangr, Avery &. Co of India Pte Ltd 

Mng Dire, J Thomas & Co Pte Ltd 

Director, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 

Asstt, 1 C I (India) Pte Ltd . • 


21, Theatre Rrad 

0 Lyons Range 
4 ( -li\ e Row 
34, Cliewnnghd' 

2 Met ralie St met 
33 Net a | ) Siihh.H 

34 Chitl.uanj.il) 

3 1, Cho\\ ringlin- 11 

4 Mangoe Lane 
2 Fairlie l'Lu c 

7 Welleslev I *1*0*0 

33 Not a j i SuBhas 


9, Weston »st ret t 
D-0 GillandeJ Hoir 
31 . ( 'how miiC < 1 J 


8, Wellesiy St. 

23B Notiji SiiBhiis 

10 N, t 1 ,i S’l'Jm- 1 
8, Wellesiy St 
3 Koila tili'it Stritf 
31 (3iow nngev lk*»j 
37, Olio w ru tfj 
19, Strain 1 

31, Chow Tingle 
Caleiitta-R* 

31 Chow nnglti* 0 ■* |C 
2, Fairlie Pi j 
4 ' Fairh 1 ‘ Pl* u ‘ r 
(» Lyons JUf4C 
Giliani^er ih»^ e 


Aver; House 

8, Mission 
37 , Chou ring* 
34 , CliowrmgHf* 



Names, 


2? 

Style or calling. 


o. 


Residence or place o£ 

business. 


Vi Knox John 

Kochhar, Sundarshan Kumar 
Kochhar, S L# 

■iii Kohli, J N 
- Kothari, Bejoy Singh 
)S Krishnainurthy, R, 
yj Krishna Murthi, Tumuluri, ba, 
aoa, boom 

Krisluiaswamy, S, ba 
; i Krishnsawamy, T II, ma 
12 Krishnan, C R 
;;{ Krishnan, L N A 
1 [ Krisuan, N S 
Knshnan, R G 

;i; Kundra, K K, BSc (Mooh) 

,7 Kudva Nandalike Madhara 

IK Krishnan, TR 

;<♦ Kulkarni, SR 

'o Krishnan, T N 

q Kumar, Aslioke, BA 

■'2 Kumar, Madan Mohan, ma 

;;{ Kumblo, DSN 

,4 Kiiudanam, M"ti ITardamiati, . 

BA, BOOM 

Kundu, Bimalondu 
'(I Kundu, Chi ntah aran, boom 
Kundu, Madan Mohan 
S Kundu, Nilmony, BA, LLB 
,!) Ku.m'n, Nirmd Gliand -a, ma 
DSK 1 >i[> 8W 

40 Kundu, Sambhu Nath 
si Kundu, S K 
si! Kuri, Nanda Kumar, mso 
i.‘{ Kune vila, 1 


Marine & Misc Asstt. Insurance Deptt, Bird & 
Hoilgors 

Asstt, Balmer Lawrio & Co Ltd 

Asstt, TCI (India) Pte Ltd 

T)y Ch Operating Supdt, E Rly 

Asstt, TTaore Miller & Co Ltd 

Asstt IOI (Lmiia) Pte Ltil 

Asstt Acctt, Brook Bond (India) Pte Ltd 


Chartered Bank 

Buildings 

21. Netaji Suhhas lhmd 
.*11 ( /how ring line 
E Rly House 
5 Fair lie Place 
34, Ohowringhee 
2, Metcalfe Street 


Asstt Acctt s Officer, Office of the Sr D A G P & T 
Asst Secy, Indian Chamber of Commerce 
Commercial Asstt, B B & J Constrn Co Ltd 
Inspector of Acctts, Port Commissioners 
Administration, Guest keen Williams Ltd 
Asstt Engr, E Rly 

Asstt, Production Deptt, India Aluminium Co Ltd. . 
Co Engr, Associated Elect rical Industries (Ini l) Pte 
Ltd. 

Asstt, Kilim ru &. Co Ltd 

Asstt, Balmor Lawrie & Co Ltd 

Asstt., Rail is India Ltd 

Soc Officer, Tata Iron & Stool Co Ltd 

Asst, Prof, 1 Residency College 

Asstt, Shalimar Paint, Colour & Varnish Co Ltd .. 
Asstt Burmab Oil Co (India) Tnidii g Ltd 

Asstt., Gladstone Lyall & (Jo Ltd 

Acctt, Scottish Union & National Insee. Co 

Supervisor, Rillis India, Ltd 

Asstt, Dunlop Rubber (Jo (India) Ltd 

Asstt L...h< ur ( \>nmnssi< »i < i , W B 


7, Koilagluit Street. 

23 B, Netaji Subash Road 
P-13 Mission Row Extn 
In, Strand Road 
41 Chnwrringlioo Rd 
3S Chovvringlieo Rd 
31 (Jliowringhee Rd 
13 Rajcndra Nath Mu- 
khorjeo ltd. 

2 Fairlie Pla.ee 
21 Netaji Suhhas Road 
1 6 Hare St met 
23 B Netaji Suhhas Rd 
HO/ 1, College St 
6 Lyons Range 
2M-ib, li’dje. Fvehnr pe 
Place 

4 Fairlie Place 
0, Lyons I tango 
Iti, II are Street 
f)7B Free School St 

N r \\ (;(Tl'< t .• n a I 


Asstt, Rail is India Ltd 
Asst t. Controller of Stores, E Rly 
Prof, St Xavier's College 
Asstt,, 1 C I (India) Pte Ltd 


I 6 Hare Street 
E Rly House 
30, Park Street 
34, Chowringhoe 


L 


4 Lalliri, Anil Kumar, Bsc 
4 Laliiri, Ashoke Chandra, MA 
•» Laliiri, G C, BA 
7 Laliiri, (J C 
s Laliiri, J C 

‘4 Laliiri, Nirendra Nath ma 
11 Laliiri, Sachiudra Chandra, bso 
I Laliiri, Sukhamoy, mso 

- Laliiri, Tarun Bikash, msc 
i La mg, I M 

1 Rung .John Cuthbert 
» Lakhaney Ram Par taprai 
l I-akhi, P N, MA 

- Lakshini Norayan, S 
' hail DSP 

'• Lull, BB 
1 halJ, Mahendra 


Lai, Monohar, BA 
hail, Purshotam, ma 
hall, S 
hama, J B 

haaev Lawrence Eric 

Liiigrana N N 

haslvar, Probodh Chandra, 

hast , C A J 

hatirnor, J G 

Law Terence George 

Law He, Alistair 

h^* Harold Grrdon 

r { T A. F. V. 

j^ ( ‘ Rmery, William Brian 

, s Berwick Alexander 

Rac-ster, O. K. 

Luhtlo. T. A. 
hingwood Norman 
Rwuier, H E 
hobo, J. 


Engr, English Electric Co, Ltd 
Prof, City College (Evening) 

Dy Asstt, Iron & Steel Controller 
Divl (Join Dupdt., E Rly 
Administration, (Juostkeen Williams Ltd 
Assistant, Scottish Union National luse Co. 
Asstt, McLeod & Co 
Asstt Prol. Presidency College 
Lecturer, Pr< sidcncy College 
Asst t, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Partner, Lovelock & Lewis 
Asstt, BB&J Constrn Co Ltd 
Asstt Supdt, Tea Board 
Asstt, Maeneill & Barry Ltd 

Asstt, Shalimar Paint, Colour & Varnish Co Otd 
Mach Engr, E Rly 

Member, Board of Management , Jessop & (Jo Ltd 
Asstt, Eastern Railway 
Professor, St Xaviers College 
Asstt, Bird & TIeilgers 
Sub Ediror, Statesman Ltd 
Ch Engr, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Asstt, Rallis India Ltd 
Professor, Surondra Nath (Jollcgc 
Mercantile Asstt, Mack in non Mackcngie & (Jo 
Asstt, Maeneill & Barry Ltd 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Visiting Agent, Balmer Lawrio & Co Ltd 
Asstt Olfr, Hangkong & Shanghai Banking Corpn 
Manager. South Brit ish Insurance (Jo Ltd 
Manager Insurance Dept, Bird & Co, Ltd 
Asstt, The Aligns (Jo Ltd 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Asstt, J Thomas &, (Jo Pte Ltd 
Engr, International Combustion (India) Pte Ltd 
Asst, Shalimar Paint Colour <fe Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Turner, Morrison & Co Ltd 


D-3, Clive Buildings 
M>2 1 Amherst Street 
33, Netaji Su bliss Road 
3, Koilagluit Street. 

4 1 ( Jliowringhee Rd 
6. L\ oils I C,;i uge 

3, Netaji Suhhas Road 
S(>- 1 , ( Jollege St reef, 

Sti- 1, (Jo I lege. St 1 vet 

4 Clive Row 

4, Lyons Range 

P-13 Mission Row Extn 
14, Brahourne Roan 
2 Faiilie Place 
6 Lyons Range 
E Rly House 
63, Netaji Suhhas Road 
16, Strand Road 
30, Park Street 
Chartered Bank Buildings 
4 (Jliowringhee Square 
37, (Jliowringhee 
16 Hare Street 
24, Harrison Road 
16 Strand Row 

2 Fairlie Place 
4, Clive Row 

21 Netaji Suhhas Road 
31 Dalhourtio Square 
10 Netaji Suhhas Road 
Chartered Bank Buildings 

3 t 'll ve I iow 

4 Baiikshall Street 

5 Mission Bow 
101, Park Street 
6, Lyons Range 

6 Lyons Range 



Ko. Name*. 


Style or oalling. 


tteatdenoe or pi aoe{ 
business. 1 


1521 Lonsdale, Norman 
J 322 Longnmte B, 

1523 Lough ram, Cyril 
1321 Lour, David Graham 

i 525 Love, b. l. 3 . 

1326 Louis, Packiam Maria 
1527 Lumb, L. C. 


M 


Asstt, J Arnos Warren & Co Ltd 
Asst, Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace A' Co Ltd 
Sub-Acett, The Chartered Bank 
Time 'Fable Officer, E Rly 
Asstt, Agency Dept, Bird & Heilgers 
Sub Editor, The Statesman Ltd 


31 Cliowringhoe R 0; ] 

3 Srand Road 

4 Bankshall Stic, 


Chartered Ban], B Ul j j- 
4 Chowringhee S M „ tiril 


1528 

1529 

1530 

1531 

1532 

1 533 

1531 

I 535 
I 530 

1 537 

1 538 
J 530 

1540 

1541 

1 5 12 

1513 
1511 
1545 
1 545 

1547 

1548 
1540 

1550 

1 55 1 
I 552 
i 553 
1 5.3 | 

1 555 
1 550 

1557 

1 358 


I 550 

1500 

1501 

1502 

1503 
1301 
1 505 
1 500 
I 507 
1 508 
1500 
1570 
1 57 1 
1572 
J 373 

1574 

1575 
1570 


Majumdcr, Macintosh Donald 
Maeknjie I v er Cnauphc >11 
Mudan. 3 - K. 

Madliuk, Indcr, BA 
Maji.N.N. 

Mahadev am, V. K. <L l\ BA 


Asstt, James Final vs Ar, Co Ltd 
Direct' r. Carrit & M«*rn & Co Private Ltd 
Asstt, I C 1 (India) Pte Ltd 
Manager, Steel Bros «V Co Ltd 
Dist Com Supdt, E Ely 
Ch Acett, Slate Bank of India 


Maliajan. Avinash Chandra 


Dist Sales Manager, Air India. International 


Maliajan, () P 
Mait hal, V. P. 

Ma.ti, Ajil Kumar, ma 


Asstt Op Supdt, E Rly 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace' Af Co Ltd 

Lent urc r Opelika ( ‘ollegc <4 ( omiiKTir A: Businss 
Admn 


2 Notaji iSubJias J> ()ll( j 
0. Missi- *n J i( w 

34 Chowringhee 
Gil lander House 

3 Ivoilaghat Sired 

M India E\< lun,, 
Place 

4 Dalliousie 8iiij. 

East, 1 ' 

E Rly House 
4 Bankshall Street 
2 i',0 Bow be/ i r Street 


Maiti, Asbutosb 
Mait.y, Gostba Bohan, ma 
M ait ra, A. K. 

Mailra, A mar Kumar 
Maitra, Atulondra Nath, hcom (Cal) 
Mail ra, A (\, Btcch 
Maitra. Bikash 

Maitra, Dhirendra Kr. ma, ut 
M ait ra, ( hmganarayan, ma 
M aitra, NO 

Maitra, Sitansu, ma, J) Phil 
Mait ra, S. K. 

Majumdar, Anial Kanti ma ul . . 
Majumdar. Anial Kumar, mso 
M ajumdar, Anil Ranjan 
Majumdar, B 

Majumdar, Berm Bhusan, ma, ul 
M ajumdar, B C 
M \ jimidar Debahrata, time 


Secy, Walfbrd Transport A: Co 
Prot, Vidyasagar College 

Asstt Sale's Manager, Indian Iron A’ Steel Co Ltd 
Asstt. Indian Iron iV Steel Co Ltd 
Asstt, Tata Iron A Steel Co Ltd 
Struct Engr, Karam ('hand Thapar A Co Ltd 
Sale Room. Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 
Professor, City College (Com Dept) 

Professor, City College (Com Dept-) 

Dy Sales Manager, India Iron Ar Steel Co 

Professor, Bangabasi College 

Asstt, 1 C 1 (India) Pte Ltd 

Asstt, Aertt Dept Bird A i Co, Ltd 

Lecturer, Presidency College 

Aeett, Lipton Ltd 

Asstt, Kil burn &. Co Pit* Ltd 

Asstt Secy, Cal Stock Exchange Assn Ltd 

Asst t. Com Supdt., E Rly 

Leetrer, Ca.| r Fechni<*a4 School 


Majumdar, i> n 

Majumdar, I larcndra Kumar, use 1 , 
HM IS 

Majumdar, Indu Bhusan, UK, oe 
M ajumdar, J ( *. 

Majumdcr, *Joy Narayan . . 

Majumdcr. K L. 

Maj Hinder, M . 

Majumdar, M. K. 

Majumdt'i, N. BSC(Met) 
Majumdcr. N. N., MA 
Majumdar, Niranjan . . 

Mazumdar, Nirmal Kanti, MA 
Majumder, P. C. 

Ma j milder, Prasanta Kumar 
Majumder, Promode Charan, MSC 
Majumdei, Puliu Behari 
Ma/.umdar, Rahindra Nath, MA . . 
Majumder, Rad ha binode, MA 
Majumdcr. Satyendra Kumar 
Majumdar, Subimal Kumar, MA . . 


Administrative, Guest. Keen Williams Ltd 
J nsp of Factories 

Asstt. EngT Calcutta Improvement Trust 
Asstt, (t »n{ roller of Stores 
3 r Asstt, Gladstone Lvall A r Co Ltd 
Asstt, Kilburn A r , Co Ltd 
Administration, Gesl Keen Williams Ltd 
Dy < ‘b Com Sypdt. E Rly 

Production Deptt, Ihdian Aluminium Co Ltd 
Controllerol Imports A: Exports 
Ass tt Editor. Statesman 
Asstt Prof, Presidency College 
Asstt, Kilburn A: Co Ltd 

Chief Traffic Olliee, Calcutta Tramways Co Ltd 
Prof, Bangabasi College 

Shipping Asstt, Brooke Bond ‘ndia Pte Ltd 
Lecturer, Maulana Azad College 
J > rol. V idyasagar (College 

Structural Drawing Office, Jcsxop A Co Ltd 
Auditor, Development of Industries (India) Private 
Ltd 


7 1 , I^uk Street 
3fi, Sankar Ghose bane 

1 2 M ission 15 1 \\ 

1 2 Mission J5 >u 

23 B, Netajj Sublias R ( ,£ 
25 Brabourne J3u<l 

2 Metcalle Si i eei 
13, Mirzapur SWet 
13, Mirzapur Sticet 
12, Mission Row 
25/ 1 , Soott Lane 
34 ( ’liowrmgla <■ 

Charteic'fJ Bank Buildmi! 
SO- I , College Street 
1), Western St feel 

2, Fail lie Place 

7, Lyons Range 

3, Koilaghat SI re«*t 
I!0 Surer,, l-i \ntl 

lhmerji R«.;id 
41, Chow riindiee 
1 , Hastings Street. 

10, Nctaji Suhh.is Boa 
Kasiorn Rly House 
4 Fairle! I*iai * 

2 Fairlie Place 

4 1 ( -how r l M L’ 1 1 ee Read 

3 Koilaghat Si re. t 

31 Chow i inidiei lio.nl 

4 Esplanade Ka i 
4 ( 'how ringhe. N| 

86-1 College St-met 
2 Fairlie Place 

P-4 Mission R<*\\ E\mo 
25 /J Scot Lam 
2 Metealle Si feet 

8, Wellesley Street 
30 Sankar Clam- Di» e 

63 Net aji Suhha.- 
135 Prinsep St. 


1577 Majumder, S. M. 

1378 M.ikhija.ei, Lalc.hand Gulahrnj, 
liSe. AMCT 

1579 Mazumdar, Sudhindra Kr, bcom, 

CA. 1IB 

1580 Majumder. Suhrid Ch, 

1581 M 'jnni'lar Su jit . MCom 

1382 Mazumdar, Tapas, ma, I’hd (Lond) 

1583 Malay iva. M. P.. MA, LLB 

1584 Malhan, R. C. 

1585 Malkani, TM 

1586 Malik, Ashok 

1587 Mullick, A. N. 


Asstt, Indian Iron A r . Steel Co Ltd 
Sales Marnier W II Hart< n & Co Ltd 

Staff Officer Chartered Bank 

Asstt, Bird & Co 
Pn*f City C* ‘liege (C< m) 

Asstt Prof, Presidency College 

Asstt, Personal Sept, Bird A- Co 

Asstt , I C I (India) Pte Ltd 

Ch Engr, Port Commissioners 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 

Merdantile Asstt, Mackinon Mackenzie & Co 


. . 12 Mission R<>' v 

. . 8 T)a|h< umc S'! 


. . 4, Netaji Subha» ^ 


tered Bank Bml'i'^ 


. . 34 Chowriuffhec 

.. 15, Strand Rood 

. . 4 Bankshall Street 

. . 16 Strand Road 



Names. 


29 

Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


Mallick, Bomkesh, BSC, AS, AA, Prof, City College (Evening) 

‘ AC A 

>f a llik, Pasupati, ma . . Prof, Vidyasagar College 

^lallick, J. P.i MA . . Controller ol Jmpoits <V Exprts 

Malli<*lv\ Krishnagopal . . Sub Editor, Statesman 

H.illu'k, Prasanta Kumar, BCOM Asstt, Price W aterhouse Peat & Co 
('A 

\lnlliek. 11. N. . . Asstt Aeett, Officer, A (J Bengal 

^jallirk, Rabindra Nath, BMP .. lusjKu-lor of Factories W Bengal 

\] ( illiek, Sudhansu Kr . . Asstt, Octavius Steed <Sr Co Ltd 


iliilliek, Sudhindra Oh, AC A 
itilliek, Suhrid Kumar Dcy 
Jana jar, M P 
,1a i in, William Henry 
,Ja mi id, J. K. 
jaiison, Donald 
lansukhani, T ,J, BE 
larawala, S. H., CAIIB 
A. H. 
lari m- C. J . 

1 l^IC 4 .i ylor Hugh 
la r l in, ( A. 

! idcr. N P 

Ltlmr, Bedamca Nath 
hit hm , Jv. B. 

l.iihiiMvami, Nara yanswanii, BA 
Lit mi' Laliman, MS< 1 
aitliai, Ravi John 
It iiru . Philip K. 

Athr.im, It. M. 

.milk, B. S., MSC 
. o 1 1 1 1 ; , It ishindra 
.mlik Tapendra, Nath, MSe 
,i\\\ i II, John Edward 
ivheu , Arthur James 
cCirthv, (Jordon Alexander 
'7 J. II. S 
" ' 'in 1 1- ( J S. A., 
d Won, James 
1 (•n*L'ar, W. 1). 

>■ 1 'iiIIoultIi P. 1 ). 

1 ( iilluck , ( diaries 

u Laron , G H 
ked \ J\1 . 

-MoIimu A PC 

Ronald, Norman Osmond, aca 

L-'' Lr ederick 

'da, A jit Kumar. MSC 

Bliohmath, IJi'OM, ACA 
1 *•', f >urga Prasad 
!|l,< M.ihendra Dev 

da, B s. 

da Sartaj Kishon, jia 


Klee Engr Asstt, ( Jillandcrs Arbuthnot. & Co Ltd 
Asst. Secy, Palmer Lawrie <fc Co Ltd 
A V O, E lily 

Engr, Babcock <V, Wilsorc ol (liui) Ltd 
Jr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 
Secy, Palmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Sales Mangr, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Nupdt, (-(Mitral Pak ol* India Ltd 
. Advert isemeiit Manafer, Statesman 
Sr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall Co Ltd 
Sale Boom Asstt, Brooke Pond India Pie Ltd 
Asstt Supdl, Bengal Chamber of Commerce 
Partner, S R Patliboi & Co 
Asst, Janies Warren iV- (Jo Ltd 
I>\ Cli Personnel Officer, E lily 
*Aoett Managerm Standard Vaceum Oil ( X > 

Prof, Cit y College (Evenme) 

Asstt, Maria ill & Barry. Ltd 
Jr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 
Asstt-, Kilhurn <S? Co i A d 
Prof, St Xavier’s College 
Asst I, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Leet in Math, St Paul's College 
Mat hods Aeett, Brook Pond (India.) Pte Ltd 
Asst, Engineer Jesso]> & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Palmer Lawrie &. Co Ltd 
Asstt, Place. Siddous Az. Gough Pte Ltd 
Asstt, James Finlays & CozLtd 
Asstt, Bird & Hedgers 

Asstt Aeett , National & Grindlays Hank Ltd 
Br Aeett, I mperia I Tobacco Co ol India Ltd 
Awlt, The Chartcrcc Bank 
Accountant, Stat esman 
Nul> Aeett, The Eastern Bank Ltd 
OfT'tg T M H () Pert commiHsioiier 
Asst, Williamson Magor & Co Ltd 
Sul) Aeett, The Chartered Ha.uk 
Prof, City College* (Evenintr) 

Enter Asstt, Gilla.nders Arbuthnot & Co 
Asstt Agent., Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Aeett , llrath ( In sham Ltd 
Disf (Control Sforesm E Rlv 
Asstt, Burmah Oil (Jo (India, Trading) Ltd 


,irn< fa, Sri Narain 
5) ' ;| c L.B. 

^t;i, J a 1 Rustomjeo 
.Ten wan Singh, ma 
K. B.. BA ' 

,t:; - Ihihindra Nath 
hl a S L. 
ilt H, T 

J. V 

,f "«. s. I,. 

|\ ( J 

‘7 r - A * ACA, a icw a 
k (Moment. YVhear 
1 Lawrence Bexon, MA 
,X>n) 


7* c o j 

7 a ' K P, B COM 
7 a ' L.ighunandan, ma 

Sheo Narayan, BCom, 

fc'i T K.BA 
"ty. H J 


Sr Asstt, Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Asstt, Marniell A' Barrv Ltd 
Asstt, R.allis India, Ltd 

Assistant Secretary, Indian Chamber of Commerce 
Dy Manage. Seindia Steam Navigation Co Ltd . . 
Sale romm Asstt, Broke Pond India Pte Ltd 
Cal Director, Shaw Wallace <V- Co Ltd 
Asstt, Scott tV Sareby 

Hr Manager, (Jal North, Brooke Pond Ihdia Pte Ltd 

Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 

Asstt, Gunny Export Dept Bird & Co Pte Ltd 

Asst-t, Jardine Henderson Ltd 

Supdt Engr, Octavius Steel & Co Ltd . . 

Managing Director, Dunlop Rubber (Jo (India) Ltd 

Asstt, Officer, Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corpn 
Asst, I C I (Pte) Ltd 
Asstt Aeett s Officer, E Rly 
Professor, Vidyasagar College 

Section Officer, Tata Iron & Steel Co Agents’ Office 

Controller of Imports and Exports 

Asst, J C I (Pte) Ltd - 


102/1 Amherest Street 

30, Sankar Chose Lane 
. 4 Esplanade East 

. 4 Chow ringheo S(j 

. P-4 Gillandar House 

Treasury Buildings 
. 1 , Hastings St root 

14 Old Court House 
St reet 

( Jillander House 

21, Netaji Subhas Load 

K R ly J I oust' 

1 tV 3 Bra, bourne Road 
4 Fairlie Place 
21, Netaji Subhas Road 
<>, Church i^ano 
33 Netaji Subhas Load 
*1 ( 'how rmidire | 

1 Fairlie Place 

2 Mel ealh' Si reet 

b Net a j i Subha. . Load 
l-B, Old Post, Ollier St 

3 I ( -how ringhoe I load 
E Ll\ I louse 

(* ( 'Imrrh Jjiinr 
I 111’ I Amheivsl Si reel, 

2, Fail' lie Place 

1 Fan lit* Place 

2 Fairlie Place 

30 Park S ( root 

4 ( 'li ve Low 

33-1 , Amherst. Si root 
2, Metcalfe Street. 

(»3, Netaji Subhas ltd 
21, Netaji Subhas Load 
li Lvoiis Lanee 
2 Nelaji Subhas Lead 
Chatered Bank PuildgH 

31 ( -hovvriiigher Load 
37 ( 'how mighee 

4 I la,sl iugs Si reet 
4, ( Jhowringhoo S(] 

14 Netaji Subhas Load 
I A Si rand Roiul 
4, Mangoe Lane 
4 1 1 as I mgs St reet 
102 I Amherest Si reel. 
(Jillander House 
14 India. Exchange Place 
31 ( 'hatl aranja n Avenue 
E Rly House* 

2S-20, India. Exchange 
Plaeti 

14 India Exchange Place 
2 Fairin' Place • 

1 b. Hart: Si reet 

23B, Netaji Subhas Load 
33 Nelaji Subhas Road 

2 Met ealh* St reel, 

4 Pankslia.il St-reel 
Chargereti Bank Buildings 

2 Melealte Street 
4 Clive Row 

Chai tried Bank Bldgs. 

4, (-live Low 
14 Old Court House St. 
57B I r ree School Street. 

31 Dalhousie Sfjuare. 

34, Chow ringhoe Kd 
E Rly House. 

39 Sankar (Jlion* Lano 
23, Netaji Subhas Road 

4 Esplanade Ea«t. 

34, ChowTinghec Rd 



No, 


Names, 


30 

Style or calling. 


1660 Mital, B L 

1 0G 1 Mitehel, Alexander Hume 

1 662 Mitchell, A J 

1663 Mitra, Arun Kumar 

1 664 Mitra, AHhim Kumar 

1665 Mitra, AC 

1 GOG Mitra, Achyutananda 

] fW, 7 Mitra, Aj it 

1668 Mitra, A jit Bhusan 

1660 Mitra, Ajoy Kumar, BNe, BL 

1670 Mitra, AN 

1 r>7 I Mit ra Arun Kumar, BCOM ACA 
1072 Mitra, Barun Kumar, MSC 
1 67 3 Mitra, Bliaba.t osli . B( om, ( ’A 1 1 L 

1671 Mitra, Buren Kumar 
1673 Mitia, Bhupendra Nath 

1676 Mitra, Bijoy Kumar, M A 

1677 Mitra, Birendra Kumar, use, 

OK 

1078 Mitra, 1), use (Eng) 

1 670 Mit ra , I > K 
1080 Mitra, I) N 

1681 Mitra Gnnendra Nat h , BFCF 

Hi82 Mitra, T 1 araprosad , ma, i> rum . . 
1683 Mitra, licmniidra Brosad, ua 
I 0)84 Mitra., 1 1 aitu.ilra. Nat h , BE 
1 0)80 Mitra, Harihar, MSc 

I 080 Mitra, Hirendra Kumar 
10)87 Mitra, Ishan Ch, MA. ACA 
10>88 M it ra, Joggesw ar 
1080 Mitra, K K, MA 

10)00 Mitra, Kamal Kumar 
1001 Mitra, Halit Kumar 
I 002 Mi t ra, Manas K mnar, M‘N<* 

1603 Mitra., Mammlra Na|li. MSc 
10)01 Mil ra, Manindra Nal h.MNC 
lotto Mitra, Mukul, bke 
10)0(‘, Mitra, Bari tosh, MSc 
10*07 Mitra, Pro vat Kumar 
1 (it)S Mitra, Bralulla Kumar, BCOM, 
A( 'A 

1600 Mitra, l > rafulla, ma 

1700 Mitra, B K 

1701 Mitra, K K 

J702 Mitra, Rath indra Kumar 

1703 Mitra, Ramgopal, BSe, AM1E 

Struct 

1704 Mitra, Salil Kumar, use boom, 

ACA, ASAA (Lond). 

170f> Mitra, Samir Kumar 

17O0> Mitra, Santosh Nath, BA . . 

1707 Mitra, Saral Kumar, moom 

1708 Mitra, Saroj Kumar, BCOM 
1700 Mitra, Sisir Kumar 

1710 Mitter, Suhimal 

1711 Mitra. Subimal 

1712 Mitra, Saumendra Nath MSc 

1713 Mitra, Sujit Krishna, MA, DSW 

1714 Mitra, Sunil Chandra, Bcom, AcA 
171 r> Mitra, Sunit K . . 

17 lt» Mitra, Sushil Kumar, BA 

1717 Mittal, Avtar Krishnan 

1718 Modak, Goviu Kunti 
1710 Mondal, Harahallav 

1720 Montgomery, Colin Cordon 

1721 Mont (‘Bello, Ronal Louis 

1722 Moutogomery, M 

1723 Mogul, KF BSC 

1724 Mohan, C J (Coinmdr) 

1725 Mulk, Raj Chhahra, ACA 
1720 Momen, Golam 

1727 Mondal, Haraballav 

1728 Motilal, Bimal Kumar 


Offg Asst Consvr, Port Commissioners 

Member, Board of Management, Jessop & Co Ltd . . 

Suh-Acctt, The Chartered Bank 

Assistant, Baliner Lawrio & Co, Ltd 

Asstt. Buhner Lawrie & Co Ltd 

Asst, 1 C I (Bte) Ltd 

Engr, Lipt-on Ltd 

Couch Drawing Office, Jessop & Co, Ltd 

Sr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co, Ltd 

FircSupdt. Norwich Union Fire insurance Society Ltd 

Asstt Macncill and Barry Ltd 

Acett, Electric Supply Deptt, Martin Burn, Ltd 

Asstt, Metal Deptt, Martin Burn, Ltd . . 

St. 41 Asstt ( ’harfc ed Ba.nk “1 India 
Spl Staff, Honkong & Shanghai Banking Cor]m 
Asstt, Bird & Co, Ltd 
Brof, City College (Evening) 

Lecture! , Calcutta Technical School 

Asstt Manager, Plant Sales l)ivn, English EJcctiic 
Co, Ltd 

Asstt, Martin Burn, Ltd 

Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 

Lecturer, Cal Technical School . . 


Prof, Presidency College 
Acett, Martin & Burn, Ltd 
lnsp< 1 Fact' r*cs \V Bengal 

Asstt Oontro, Stationery, Govt of India Stationery 
Office 

Acett, B B & J Construction Co Ltd 
Asstt, Brice YViit.crliou.sc Beal & Co 
Sub Acett, Reserve Bank of India 
Staff Asstt, Stub* Bank of India 

(k nl Mangr, B B & J Construction Co Ltd 
Prof, City College (Com Dept) 

Brolcss* r Ba: g.'basi College 

Br (< as* r Vidyasn.grr ( Vllcgo 

Lt‘cturer, Montana A/.ad College 

Hd of Fleet Dept, Cal Tech School 

Oh Acett, Acett n Deptt, Oorpn ol Calcutta 

Sr Supvr, Nat ional Grindlays Bank, Ltd 

Asstt, Pi ice W aterhouse Peal &. Co 

Prof, Bangabasi College • . 

Asstt-, Kilhurn ik Co Ltd 
Asstt, I C j (India) Bte, Ltd 
Sr Asstt, Gladstone LyalJ & Co Ltd 
Fngr, Heatly & ( Jrasham Ltd 

Acett, C E S C, Ltd 

Asstt, James Finlays & Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Allahabad Bank, Ltd 

lecturer, Goenka College of commerce of Business 
Administar t ion 
Asstt., Bank of China 
Prof, Sanskrit. College 
Supervisor, Hallis India, Ltd 

Sr Office Asstt Acctg Imperial Tobacco Co of India 
Plot, Bangabasi College* 

Asstt Labour Officer, Labour Commissioner 
Asstt Acett, Brooke Bond India, Ltd 
Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 
Asstt Mgr, Seindia Steam Navigation Co, Ltd 
Secy, B B & J Construction (Jo Ltd 
Lrct, Presidency College 
Asstt, Shnwwa.Ila.ee & Co, Ltd 
Sr Executive, Ba liner Lau rie & Co Ltd 
Asstt, James Finlays & Co, Ltd 
Asst, Macncill & Barry 
Sr Sec Officer, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 
Dy Conservator, D C, Port Commissioners 
Chief Financial Aee.tt., Dunlop Rubber C<>( India) Ltd 
Asstt, Carri t & Moran & Co Private Ltd 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Lecturer, Sanskrit College 


Residence or pi*^ 
business. 

15, Strand Rd 
63, Netaji Sul, has 
4 Netaji Suhl 1H s j 
21, Netaji Nubias * 
21, Netaji Subhas \\ 
34, Chowringli^ fo] 
0, Weston Street 
63 Netaji Subiu.s [ 
4 Fairlee Bhu < . 

6 Lions Range 
2 Fairl(‘(* BJaee. 

12 Mission Row, 

12 Mission Row 
*1 , Netaji Suhlxis Rd 
31 Dulhousn ,s, JIJai 
Chartered Hank Jhnk 
102/1 Amherst Nti-ee 
110, Sureiuha j 
Banerjee Road 
D-3, Clhe Building 

12 Mission Row 
12 Mission I low 
1 10, Nun n 'ra 
Baticrji ivoad 
86/1 , College Kq 

12, Mission Row 

I Hast ii % gs St .-eet 
3, Church Lain' 

B- 13, Mission Row J 
B4 ( {illandei Huii.sr 
8, Council Rou.no S 
Queens Mansion, 
Street 

P-13, Mission Knw ] 

13, Surva Sen 8t 
25/1. Sc.' li I ...’ ( 

30 San tar GIlom La 

8 Wellcshx Mi eel 

1 10, S N BaiKTjee I 
5, S N Bauer j i IcmiI 

31 Clmw i iniiliee J 
B4 Giilandei Ji (HIM. 


10 Scott Lane 
2 Fairlee Bi.u < . 

34 ( Miow i m-dict . 

4, Fairlie Flair 
31, Ch itt.n a n jail Am 


Victoria Houm 


2 Netaji Sublets R <|;1 
14 linli.i 1< ■ li.mi!.' 1’ 
210, Bouluy ii Strw 

1 r; ft.... Iwmt lit lio.nl 



Names. 


31 

Style or oalling. 


Residence or place of 
1 usiness. 


i Morgan, Geoffrey . . . . Asstt, WillianiHon Magor & Co, Ltd 

l Morris, DE . . . . Asstt Aectt, Mercantile Bank, Ltd 

Morris, GC . . . . Nub-Acctt, Mercantile Bank, Ltd 

, Morrison, R H . . Asst, Macneill & Barry 

| Morris, John . . . . Asstt, Thomas Duff & Co (Ind) Ptd, Ltd 

^ Morriss, IF . . Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 

, Moore, 1)T . . . . Asstt Aectt, National & Griudlavs Bank , Ltd (Lloyds 

Branch). 

( Mniulgill, M M, BSC (('hem Engg) Production Deptt, Indian Aluminium Co, Ltd 
Moult, G . . . . Area Manager, Imperial Tobacco Co of India, Ltd 

; Morre Fraeis Waugh . . Asst Williamson Magor & Co Ltd 

, MuUhcrjee, A, MA . . . . Prof, St Xavier's College 

i Muklierjee, A K . . Asstt, op Supdt, E Rly 

Mukherji, Acliintya Kumar (Dr) Prof, Presidency College 
MSc, MB, DPhil (Cal) 

> Muklierjee, Ajit Kumar, BA . . Asstt Personal Ollicer, Yoltas, Ltd 

i Muklierjee, A K, MA . . Dy Dr Pub, Home (Pub) Dept 

Mukherji, Amal Kumar, ma, use, Aectt, Martin Burn, Ltd 
Boom 

Mukherjeo, Amal Kumar, MNC .. lx‘ct, Presidency ('ollege 
, Muklierjee, Amal Krishna, msc . . Lecturer, IVosideney Colh-go 
Muklierjee, Ambuj Kumar . . Asstt Aectt, Mackintosh Burn (Pte) Ltd 

Muklierjee, Amiya Gopal, MSC) . . Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Muklierjee, Anil Kumar .. Asstt Aectt, Port Commissioners of Calcutta 

Mulvhcrjea, Anil Chandra .. Asstt , Oc tavius Steel & Co, Ltd 

Muklierjee, Anil Kumar, BSC, . . Dist Kngr, Mains Deptt, C K S C Ltd 
AM IK 

Muklierjee, AN . . . . Asstt, I C I (India) Pte, Ltd 

Muklierjee, Arun Kumar, ma Lecturer, Presidency College 

1 ) FH1L 


4 Mangoc Lane. 

8 Netaji Subhas Hoad. 

8 Netaji Subhas Hoad. 

2, Fairlie Place 
if Clive How . 

4, Clive How 

211 Netaji Subhas Hoad. 

21 ( -bow ringhee Hoad. 

27 ( 'how rnudier. 

4, Mangoc Lane 

20 Park Street. 

K Hly House. 

80-1, College Street 

8 Netaji Subhas H oad 
Writers' Buildings. 

12, Mission How 

S(>/ 1 Co I lege St reet . 

80-1, ('ollege Street 
8, Netaji Subhas Hoad 
211, Sankar Gliose Lane 
1 f> St rand Hoad. 

14 Old Court House St. 
Victoria House. 

21 ('how ringhee. 

80-1, College Street. 


Muklierjee, Arun Ch 
.Muklierjee, Ashim Kumar 
Mukherji, Asia Kumar, ma 
Muklierjee, AN 
Muklierjee, Banin Kumar 
Muklierjee, Bejoy Kumar 
Muklierjee, B B, MA 
Muklierjee, Benoy Bhusaii, ma . . 
Mukherjeo, Benoy Bhusan, msc . . 
Muklierjee, Bholanath 
Mukherji, Bimal Oharan, ma, asaa 
Mukherji, Bimalendra Kanta, 
Tit ’em (Cal) 

Muklierjee, Deb Kumar, MSC 
Muklierjee. D G 
Mukherji, Dev Kumar 
Muklierjee, Dharani Mohan, ma 
Mukherjeo, DJiirendraMohan, MSC 
Mukherjeo, Dhiroiidra Nath, BCom 
PC A 

Muklierjee. Dili]) Kr, MSC 
Mukherji, Dwjjendra Nath, MCom 
Muklierjee, T)r Govmda Gopal, 

MA., D Phil 

Mukherji, Gourdas, MSc (All) 
MuIJicrjeo, H 

Muklierjee, Haraprasad, MA 
Miikherjot*, H K 
Mukhe, ji, Haridas, ma 
Muklierjee, Harihar, MA 
Mukliciji, llarish Cliandra, bk, 
( 'K, FRIGS, AM1F 

Mukherji, Hari Shanker, bsc, c & o 
(Plastic), London 
- uklK'rjeo, Hemen, MSe 
Juklierjei^ Himnngshu, BA 
' jkherjee, Hitendranath, msc . . 
JiFrjcx*, Kaliprosad 
tiklierjee, Jyotirmoy, MSe 

^Jykli(>rj(;e, KN.BA 

•' u kh<Tj,. Pj Kanailal, MSe 

fCal/ 1 f Kabindra Ch, B Com 

Mukherji, Keshab Chandra, ma 

Muklierjee, Kishori Mohon, MA 
\U>m) 


Asstt, Aijenlias Deptt, Martin Burn, Lid 

Asstt, L C I (Lndia) Pte, Ltd 

Prof, Bangabasi College 

Asstt. rJnrdine Henderson 

Wagon Drawing Office, Jessup Co, Ltd 

Asstt, Sliaw 'Wallace A r Co, Ltd 

Controller of Imports and Exports . . 

Professor, Surendra Nath College 
Professor, Yid yasagar College 
Asstt, Stewart & Lloyds of Lndia 1*10 Ltd 
Accountant, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
Asstt, Tata Iron & Steel Co Ltd 

Lecturer, City College 
A P O, K Hly 

Assistant, James Finlay & Co, Ltd 
Hd Master, Metropoliton Inst (Main) 

Prof, Bangabasi ('ollege 
Chartered Aectt. George Head and Co. 

Lecturer, Moulana Azad ( College 
Professor, City College ((Join Dept) 

Asstt Prof, Sanskrit College 

Professor, &t Paul's College 
Asslt , Jaridiic Henderson 

Leet , St Pauls Cathedral Mission (College . . 

Asstt, J C I (India) Pte, Ltd 
Lecturer, Moulana Azad College 
Prof, Cit \ College (Evening) 

Cliief Valuer, Calcutta Impiov cment Trust 

Sales Engr, Alfred Herbert (India), Ltd 

Lecturer, Presideney College 
Staff Asstt, State Batik oJ India 
Prof, St Xavier’s College 
Br Admii Asstt, Hindusthan Lover Ltd 
Employee's Relation.* Manage*!*, Standard Vacuum 
Oil Co 

Asstt, Martin Burn Ltd 
Prof, City College (Evening) 

Asstt, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 

Asstt Secretary, Bengal National Chamber of Com- 
merce and Industry 
Asstt, Price, Waterhouse Peat & Co 


12 Mission How. 

2-4 ( 'how ringhee. 

25/1, Scott Lane 
4 ('live How . 

02 Netaji Subhas Hoad. 
4 Bankshall Street, 
d Esplanade Hast. 

2d, Harrison Hoad 
39, Sankar G1 oso Lane 
41, Chowr inghee R 
10, Netaji Subhas Hoad 
22- B, Netaji Subhas Rd 

102/ 1 Amherst Street. 

E Hly House. 

2, Netaji Subhas Roau 
29, Sankar Chose Lane 
25/1 Scott Lane. 

Avenue House Chow- 
ringeo Scj. 

8 Wellesley Street. 

12, Mirzapore Street 
Sanskrit College 

33-1, Amherst Street 
4 Clive How . 

32/1 Amherst Street. 
24Chow ringlme 
8, WeJJesle\ Street 
102/1 Amherst St retd. 

10, Netaji Subhas Hoad 

13-3, Strand Hoad 

80/1, College Street. 

2 St rand Hoad 
20, Park St. 

1 & 2 Bra, bourne Hoad 
0 Church Lane 

12 Mission How 
102/1 Amherst Street 
22B Netaji Subhas Hoarl 

P-11, Mission Row Extn 

B4 Gillandcr House 



No. Names. 


1 793 Mukherjee, Krishna Das, BA 

1704 Mukherjee, Krishna Ki mi ar 
]70.", Mukherjee, K .K.M,eom LLB. 
1700 M ukhei jee, Main 

1707 Mukherjee, N., B A 

1 705 M uk herjee, Nilumbar, BA, BL 
1700 Mukherjee, Narayan Ch, ma 

| SOO M ukhei )ee, N k 

I'k 

P N, BL 
P K 


!*, Promodejanjan 
Protaj) ( Mi, BSe 
\ Pmcun 

Pratul Chandra, msc 
*, Pnya Lai. AM IE (ind) 
• f P I) 

Bahmdra Nat h 
i , Batul Kumar, MSi 


1801 

M ukherje 

1802 

M ukherje 

1803 

M ii k her j« 

1801 

Mukherji 

1 N< 15 

M ul.liorje 

1 hoi; 

Milk lierji 

1807 

JM uk her jr 

I80S 

Mukherji, 

1809 

Muk Ik *i je 

1810 

MukJuu'jiv 

LSI 1 

M uklier jei 

1812 

M uklu*r|(*( 
(\\ (Sec 

1813 

Mukherjis 

Is 14 

M Ilk herjec 

1 S 1 5 

M uklier je< 

1S1 6 

M ukherjei 

1817 

Mukherjee 

ISIS 

M ukherjei 

1810 

M uk lierjei 

1 S2< » 

Mukherji. 

1821 

Muklu*rjet 

1 822 

M uklier jee 

1 823 

M ukhei j«*( 

1 824 

M ukherji. 

1 825 

IMukherjec 

1 82 6 

Mllkh(*rjee 

1 827 

M llkhe* Jl, 

1 828 

Moi »kh(‘l jei 

1820 

M uk herjee 
PhD 

1830 

Mukh(*rji, t 

1 S3 1 

M llkherjecv 

J 832 

M uklierjee. 

1 833 

Mukherjee. 

1 834 

M uk herjee, 

BM E' 

1835 

MuIJim-jee, 

1836 

Mukherji, 8 

1837 

Mukh(‘vji, 
i> non 

1838 

Mukher jee. 

1830 

Mukh(‘rji, S 

1810 

Mukherjee. 


r, P N 

a, Pa ul ( 'hnndra , M A 
* . P o I » 1 1 1 
>. S K 
*, S N 
K K 

*, Sachimlra Prosad, lie 
Kailendra M, msc 
* Sadanand.i, 

*. Said Kumar 
\ Santanu 

Kantosh Kumar, MA 
*, Sa.ntosh K, mso 
, K P, MA, DSW 
Sa nt ila I, M A 
e, S. K. 

, N.it indra Kumar, MA 

Satimohan, ma 
S hirendrn Nat h. M A 
Shvania Prosad, MKc 
Shyamasan kar , hm e 


Style or oalling. 


Asstt Acct-t, CESC Ltd 

Dept Supdt, The Eastern Bank Ltd 

Asstt, Auett. K. B. of India 

Asstt, Burn A, Co, Ltd 

Dy. Asstt. Iron A Steel Controller 

Asstt , Bengal Chamber ol Commerce 

Prof, City College 

Asstt, Martin Burn Ltd 

Asstt, Khali mar Paint, Colour A- Varnish Co, Ltd 

Ch Cashier, Martin Burn Ltd 

Asstt Elee Engr, E Railway 

Professor, Vidvasagar College 

Static m Are!!, Air India International 

Trallic Supdt, Lt- Rly Martin Burn Ltd 

Asstt, Martin Burn Ltd 

Prof, Presidency College- 

Sales Engr, Bnlmer Lawrie & Co, Ltd 

Dist- Com Supdt, E Ply 

Structural Drawing Oilice Jessup A. Co, Ltd 
Asstt. Price Water House Peat A Co. 


Residence 


or 


Suhimal, BA 


Sudhangsu Kr, mho, 
Sii joy, M A 


Sukumar, ma, ij-.b . . 
1811 Mukherji, Suprokash. BA 
1S42 Mukherjre, Sunil K 

1843 Mukhri|<*e Sunil i Kumar, B Com 

1844 Mukherjee. T C 

I S I > Mukherji, Tarapada ma 
1840 Mukhei jee, Tarapada, BCom, CA 
1 IB 

1847 Mukherjee, Tarim Kumar, BSe, 
BE (Cal.). 

1ST 8 Mukherji, Trambak Prasad, ba, 
CAT IB 

1810 Mukherji, Visvapriya, msc 

1850 Mullaiifero/.e, K C, *D Com. LCC .. 

1851 Munshi, Sunil Kumar, ma 

1852 Munsif, I) P, BKe (Eeom) (Lond) 

1853 Murmmia, 1 lain Copal 

1854 Murray, John Edwin 

1855 Murthy. B K. MSe (Pat) 

1850 Murthy, O V S K 

1857 Minty. 1* B K 

1858 Miirt.i, V(J K 

1859 Murtough Henkey Albert 

1860 Mustaphy, Suryya Kumar BSc . . 


Asstt Com Supdt, E Ply 

Leet , Cocnka College ol Coin A: Business Adimi 
Asstt. Martin Burn Ltd 
Asstt Acetts Ollieer, E Hallway 
Asstt Aeets Ollieer 
Asstt, Kilhuru & Co, Ltd 
u Stall Asstt, State Bank (Part Street Branch) 

Asstt l*rof, Presidency College 
Asstt, Minerals Depl, Bird A Co, Ptc Ltd 
Asstt, Indian Iron A Steel Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Hal I is India Ltd 
Dy. Secy., Orient Longmans Pte. Ltd. 

Prof, City College (Com) 

Asstt Labour Commissioner, West. Bengal 
Professor, City College (Com Dept) 

Asstt., Turner Morrison A; Co., Pte. Ltd. 

Leet, St Pa, uls Cathedral Mission College 

Prof, Bangahasi College 
Prol St Xavier s College 
Lecturer, Presidency College 
Insp of Boilers, Diete ol Boilers 
Engl*, Baheoek A, Wilcox of India, Ltd 

Begun I National Savings Ollieer, National Kavii 
Orga-iiisat ion 

Asstt Engr, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
Prof, Siirendra Nat h College 

Leet, Cocnka College of Com A Business Adinn 
Marine Underwriter. London A, Lancashire Insc Co, 
Ltd 

Professor, Vidvasagar College 
Sub Aeett, Reserve Bank of India. 

Asstt, Mart, in Burn 
Sub- Acet t , Chartered Bank 
Asstt, Kilbiirn A’, Co, Ltd 
Professor, Presidency College 
Suh-Aeetl, KB of India 

Asstt. Mains Engr.C.E.S.C. Lt d 

Sub- Accountant. Reserve Bank of India 

Professor, Scottish Church College 
Ollieer, Central Bank of India Ltd 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Prof, St Xavier's College 
Asstt, James Finlay & Co, Ltd 
Asstt ., Bird & Heilgers 

Sales Development Engr. Indian Alluminium Co, Ltd 
Chairman & Jt Sales Manager, Brooke Bond 
(India), Ltd 

Dist Manager, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd . . 

Asstt, Macncill & Barry Ltd 

Asstt. Hoare Miller & Co. Ltd. 

Accountant Carritt Moran & Co. Pte. Ltd. 


plaoetf 


Victoria House* 

14 Netaji Suhhas 
8, Council House S{ r Z 
12 Mission Row 
33, Netaji Suhhas k ( j 
6 Netaji Suhhas !• ’, 
102/1 , Amherst St 

1 2 Mission Row 
f> Lyons Range 
12 Mission Row 
E Ely House* 

33, Sankar Chose J A , H 
4 Dalhousie Ncjuarr f c 
12 Mission Rom 
12 Mission Row 
86-1, College Street 
21 Netaji Suhhas R,, m 
3 Kailagluit St reel 
63 Netaji Suhhas 
B4, Gillander House, 

E Ply House 
210 Bow Ba/ai Slnci 
1 2 M ission Row 
E Ely 1 1 oust* 

Eastern Railway II<>um 
2 Fairlie Plan 
Queens Mansion 
86-1 , Colk'gc* St rert 
( ^bartered Bank J>M_s 
I 2 Mission Pow 
1 6 I Inn* Strccl 
17, Chitturnnjun A vim is 
1 3, Mirzapur St reet 
1 Hastings SI net 
13, Mirzapoie Peel 
6, Lyons Ranee 
33 1 1 Amhcisl Mom 

25/1, Scott Lane i 

30 Park Street ; 

86/1, College Street 
J , Hastings St 
I A: 3 Brahoiirm lhi.nl 

Hindust Jtan Hn i hlnuj- 

10, Netaji Suhhas Kua 
24, Harrison IhuJ 

210 Bow Ba/a i Stive! 

2, Fairlie Place 

39, Shankar Clmse Lai 
8, < V>ii f i eil I fous<* Stnv 
12, Mission Pow 
4 Net a j i Kahlii- I e 
2 Fairlie Place 

86-1, College Street 
8 Council Hon-' Ktr« 

Victoria IIoipv 

8. Counoil House Street 

1 & 3, Cormvallis Sq 

1 Lindsav Street 

39, Shankar <i!i»se 

30 Park Street , 

2 Netaji Subli-* R"* 
Chartered Bank Bjnld 

31 Ohownuidiee 
Brooke House 

37 Chowrint'liee 
2 Fairlie Piaee 
6, Fairlie 
9, Mission B°" ' 



Names. 


33 


N 

Nag, A C 

Nng, Chandra Kumar, mcoiu 
N ag Ohabindralal, MA 
Nag, h. C. . . 

Nag, Homendu Bikash, ba 
N; ig Khagemdra Chandra 
Nag, Sarnarendra 
Nair, Sunil Oh., MA, B Com 

Niliaruar, P P 
Nair, A H V 
Nair, K R» 

Naismith, D J 
Nallvur, NK N 
Nair, liairoth K 

Nanda, P C, BA 
Nanda, Dilip Kumar, M So 
Nandi, Dinendra Kumar 
Nadliam, I V 

Nandi, (2. C. 

Nandi, Heramba Kumar 
Nandi, Mathurendra, ma 
N andi Majumdcr, A run ( Miandra, 
Nandi, Rabiiulra Nath, uk 


Nandi , S K, MNc 
N.uidi, Suhir 

Nandi Sudhir Kr., M A, I) Phil . 
Nandi, Sukhonioy, msc 
V us ingham, S 

N , ira m n i ha n , Si • k 1 1 a r i p \v e*:i m 

Subiainaniimi, MA, Fell. 

\ iu imihaii, K . 

Naiasmliaiii, K. I. 

-Yiinxnu Ram 
Nn ray. m, S S , BSis 
N.irax an, (2 A 
N.inriv.tla, P M 

YuiHvala, PM, BA (Hons), LL1 
H’A, PS A A (Bond) 

Niilai’ajan, Copal Krishna. 

\. it ampin, J 
N.itarajau, Jv 
Natcsan, Subramania 
Y'di. II K 

Nathan, John Lewis 
■N'^iirn S V It, CD A 
Nf'aim-, DA 
Nailuni. S H 


N ( ruani, Banwarilal, itnuii, ai’A 

J/'dn, P 1, MA 

Y‘\w>n. A P 

Ni'holJ.s Peter Bl ast oil 

^'■linlls, R. J. O. 

N‘^lw-1 (Jhaman Bal 
J>kuutaii, P H, BSe, ACA 
j'I'Jn V C 

Vnillohit K, B( Join, ACA ! ! 
i!* v,, ek Preman jan, use*, BO>m . . 
‘ ! Vo gi, Prithwis Chandra, ma 

P iwo, (Eng) bsc !, (Cal) .. 

‘ 0 ap, John Andrew McBeath 
y * ‘ Clfireneo William 
Kader, BA, DSW 


0 t Br ', ,, n. N A, MA 

r7’ s - M. 

^ Bharat Ch Kanta, BSr- Ms. 

o,, (L «A). 

( .3, H. H. 

John H. 

ert «u, c G w 


Style or oalling. 


Residence or plaoe of 
business. 


BA 


Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 
Professor, Stnvndra Natli College 
Lee! , ( ’it y ( -o l lege 
Asstt., Supdt. (Telegraphs) .. 

Asstt, Iron & Steel Control 
Asstt Aeetl, O E S (’ Ltd 
Asstt, Jurdinc Ih*nel<*rson Ltd 

Asstt. Sr. Ofticer, Life Insum nee Oorpn. of India 
Lnit Oriental Covt. Security 
Asstt, J Thomas A, Co, Ptc* Ltd 
Asstt, (anil. Moran & Co Ptc* Ltd 
Asstt, 1 C l (Ptc) Ltd 
Asstt, .1 Thomas & Co, Ptc* Ltd 
Asstt, I O I (India.) Ptc Ltd 

Sales Asstt, Associated Electrical Industrie's (Ind) 
Ptc* Ltd. 

Dy Chad Controller of Lmprts and Exports . . 

Prof, Siirondra Nath College 
Mech Drawing Office*, Jessup tV. Co, Ltd 
Asstt. Branch J\lanagc*r, Calcutta North, Brooke* 
Bond India Ptc* Ltd. 

Asstt., The* Indian Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. 

Supei visor, RaJiis India. Ltd 
Prof, City College 
Asstt. Audit Olherr, Eas1c*rn I My 
Lecturer, Cal Technical School 

I )i*monsl im .1 oi . St. Xu\ n*ra ( 'ollcgc 
St ruct ura I Dt aw mg Oilier, .lessop A Co, Ltd 
Lecturer, Man Jana. A/.ael College 
Prof, City College 
Trallir Asst . Marne ill A* Bany 
Asstt. Br. JMngr., Northern Assurance* Co. Ltd. 

Personal (Min er, E. I My. 

Asst., Bird A Hedgers 
Ac a 1 1 s l)(‘])t. J'ssi|i (!u, Ltd 

Piodm tioii Manager, Indian Alluminiuni ( ’o. Ltd . . 
Sr Acctt, India, (a nl Navigation A IMy (\» Ltd 
Partner, S R Batliboi A Co Ltd 
Pro I, St Xaviers (College 


112 Mission Row 
24/12, Harrison Road 
102/1 Amherst, Street 
E. Rly. House. 

33, Netaji Subhas Rd 
Victoria House 

4 (Jive* Row 
2 Clive* Row. 

5 Mission Row' 

0 Mission Row 
34, Chowringhee 
N Mission Row 
34 Chowringhee 

13 Rajendra Nath 
Muklierjec Road 
4 Esplanade' East 
24/2, Harrison Road. 

(>3 Netaji Subhas Road 
2 Metcalfe Street 

12, Mission How. 

Mi Hate Street 
102/1, Amherst Street. 

1 1> Strand Road 
1 10, Surcudra Natli 
Bailor jee Road 
.‘50 Park St ?rrt 
<»3 Netaji Suhha^ Road 
S, Wellesley Stree't. 

120-1, Amherst Street 
2, Paii he- Place 
7,11 arc ■ St rc*c*| . 

E I My .House*. 

Chartered Bank Bldgs. 

<>3 Netaji Siihhas Road 
3 I ( nw < n inglie*e* Road 
1 , Pail la Place* 

I B, Old Post, Oflieo St 
30 Pm k St i eet 


Aeetl, Octavius Ste*el A. ( o. Ltd 
Asstt, J (’ 1 (India.) Ptc; Ltd 
Asstt Aeetl, National eV, Grindlays Bank Ltd 
Aecountant, O E S (J, Ltd 
Asstt, Ae*e ts Oilie-(*|, A (2 Re *iural 
Asst, Bird A Hedgers 

Engr Asstt., (ullande is Arlmthnot. A Co, Ltd 

Asst t , Jardme lle*ndcrson Ltd 

Asst t , Jardme* llcnde*r>on Ltd 

Sc *ey, AirCondtg. Pte J Jel 

Prof, St Xavier's College 

Stoics Buyer, Bmoke* Bond Lndia, Ptc Ltd 

Managing Dnecloi, W illiamson Magor A Co, Ltd 

Asstt. Meekmon Mae*,ke*ngie A. Co. Ltd. 

Br Sales Maugr, Hindusthan Lever Ltd 
Secy A r (!Ji Aeetl, Brooke* Bond India Pte* Ltd 
Asstt, I Cl (India) Pte* Ltd 
Asstt, Price* Waterhouse* lVat A', ('<» 

Partner, Lovelock A. Lewe*s 
Prof Bangahasi Collc*ge 
Asst, Martin Burn 
Asstt. Jareline Heine]c*rson, Ltd 
Asst Mains Engr, ( I E S C Ltd 
Dy Labour Commissioner, \V B 


1 I ( >1 d ( \ air! I louse* St 

3 I ( 'how i 1 1 ighee • 

0 ( 'll iire h Lane* 

Vie.toria House* 

Treasury Buildings 
Chartered Bank Bldgs. 

( 2 1 1 1 ; 1 1 1 < i « • i House* 

1 ( 'live* Row 

4 ('live* Row 

P2, ( 2il lander House* 

30, Park St 

2 Met ea lie* St l e*e|. 

4 Manges* Lane 

1 0, St rand Road. 

1 A. 3 Biahomnc* Road 

2 Metcalfe Street 
34 ( 'how l inghet* 

I »4 ( hllanelei I louse 
I Lyons Range* 

25/1 Scott Lam* 

12, Mission Row 
4, Clivo Row 
Victoria House 
1 Hast ings Street 


Prof, St Xavier College 
Asstt. Conti*, of Stores, E. Rly 
Chief Engr, Air Condtng Pte Ltd 


30 Pa i k S tree* l 
E. Rly. House 
E2, Gil lander House 


Supdt. Engr., British India Steam Navigation Co Lt d 

Asst, Bird & Hedgers 

Manager, Elec. Furnace Div Pte Ltd 


10, Strand Road. 
Chartered Bank Bldgs. 
1 3 Ha j end ra Nath 

Mukherjee Road 



34 


No. Names. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or pi a <* 
business. 


P 

1927 Pai, K .T 

1928 Pai, K A 

1929 Pain, Jyotsna Kumar, msc, bt 
19*50 Pain. Pulin Behari 

1931 Painter, HO 

1932 Pal, Arun Kumar, MSC 

1933 Pal, G C 

1934 Pal, Gopal Ch., MSe 
1933 Pal, Ilaranal li, MA . . 

1939 Pal, Jatimlra Mohan 

1937 Pal, Khagendra Oh, ma 

1938 Pal. Krishna Chandra, BA 

1939 Pal, Lalmnya Ranjan, be,amie 

(Ind) 

1940 Pal, Muraridhar, msc 

1941 Pal, P. K., BA (Cantab) 

1942 Pal, Basanta Kumar, MA 

1943 Pal, Dr Niranjan, msc, nruir. 

1944 Pal, SC 

1943 pal Chowdhury, K N 
1949 Palit, I. K., BEK 

1947 Palit, Problial Kumar, MA 

1948 Palit, R K, msc 

1949 Palit-, Sushi! Kumar, BEE 

1930 Pande, Bankey Behari, MA 

1931 Pande, Kheyali Ram, ba 

1932 Pandey, Narmada Prasad 

1933 Pandit, Madanlal, MA 

1934 Pandit , R N 

1933 Pandit, Wasudeo Ramohandra, 
BA, IjLB 

1939 Pandva, Jagdish Prosad 

1937 Pankhurst, V K 

1938 Pardi walla, S. B„ MA 

1939 Parik, Shiv Kumar . . 

1990 Parish, P. E. G. W., O. B. E. 

1991 Parekli. Harish Maneklal 

1992 Parish, V. V. 

1993 Part hasa rat h\ , K R 

1994 Patel, B Rambhai 
1993 Patel, C G. 

1999 Pal, N J 

1997 Patel, 1) B 

1998 Pa tli ilk, S K 

1999 Patterson, d V J 

1970 Patti soi i, AT 

1971 Pal terson, John 

1972 Pat-ra, Gopal Ch, MART 

1973 Pauli, E J 

1974 Pearson, AH 
1973 Pearson, I) N 

1979 Pearson, 11 C (Oupt) 

1977 Pearson. HN 

1978 Papys, Peter Andrew Leslie 

1979 IVnefather, E H J .. 

1980 Pereira, A. L„ DFH (Bond) 

NMIEE. 

1981 Pereira, HW 

1982 Pereira, Douglas ( diaries 

1983 Pereira, Lawrence, MA 

1984 Peters, JL 

.1985 Pettygrew, Clarence Reginald 
1989 Pew, Bertram, MA 

1987 Philip, Modale Chacko, bsc (Eng) 

Auai 

1988 Phillip, George 

1989 Pil Kington, David Charles 

Bethune, OBE. 

1990 Phillips, P. E. 

1991 Pillai, Krishna Kumar 

1992 Pillai, P N K, ba, bb 

1993 Pike, J G R 

1994 Pinto, FX 


Asstt, TCI (Tndia) Pte, Ltd 
Asstt, T C 1 (India) Pte, Ltd 
Professor, St Paul’s College 
. Sales Asstt, Martin Burn, Ltd 

Aeett, Gestetner Duplicators Pte, Ltd 
1'rof, Citj ( 'allege (Evening) 

Asstt, 1 C I (India) Pte, Ltd 
. Asstt. Prof. Presidency, College 
Leet, Presidency College 

Asstt, Aeett, Associated Electrical Industries (Ind) 
Private*, Ltd. 

Asstt Prof, Maulana Azad College 
Asstt, Audit Officer, Eastern Rl\ 

Lecturer, Gal Techineal School 

Prof, Vidyasagar College 

. Asstt . Secretariat Dcpt-t. Indian Aluminium Co. Ltd. 
Pi of. City College (Evening) 

Lecturer, Maulana Azad College 

Asstt, I C I (India) Pte, Ltd 

Mercantile Asstt. Mackinnon Mackenzie Co 

Engr., The English Electric Co. Ltd. 

licet, St Pauls Cat la cira I Mission College 

Asstt, Sales Dopt, Indian Aluminium Co, Ltd 

Asstt. Mains Engr., C. E. S. C. Ltd. 

See. Officer, Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. 

Asstt, Allahabad Bank, II O, (Jal 
Asstt. Mangr. Supply Dept. Imperial Tobacco Co of 
(India) Ltd. 

Labour Wei lure Of! i cor, Karan Chaiul Thappar & 
Bros Pte Ltd. 

Asstt Coni roller nl St ores. E. Rly 
Sr Asst-t, Brit ish India General l rise Co, Ltd 

Production i\la.gr, Imperial Tobaeeo Co of India 
Member, Board of Management, Jessup i\r Co Ltd 
Sub Agent, Central Bank of Tndia 
Aeett, Bii la Bros Pte, Ltd .. 

Mg Director, Gillanders Arbutlmot & Co Ltd 

Asstt. Oetavilis Steel A Co, Ltd 

Mg Dir J, Thomas &. Co Pte Ltd 

Asst t , I C I ( I ndia ) Pt < , Ltd 

Asst, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 

Engr International Combustion (India) Pte Ltd 

Asstt, I C 1 (India) Pte. Ltd 

Branch Sales Mngr, Ilindust ban Lever, Ltd 

Asst t , Turner Morrison & Co, Ltd 

Asst-t , Jardme Henderson, Ltd 

Audit Manager, Imperial Tobacco Co of India, Ltd 
Asst, James Emlay & Co 

Insp. Social Welfare. Education Dirtcol W Bengal 
Sanrt-ai y Engineer, Mackintosh Burn, Ltd 
Assl t Seev . Complaints, I] Rl\ 

Asst, James Finlay & Co 

Cargo Supdt, British I ndia Steam Navigation Co Ltd 
Asstt Signal and Com Engr, E Rly 
Aeett. Harrisons & Gosfield Ltd 

Aeett, Nat ional tS: Grindlays Bank Ltd (Lloyds 
Branch ). 

Regional Engr (North), Mains Deptt CESC 


34 Cliowringhec. 

34 ChowTingln v 
33-1, Amherst Street 
12. Mission Row 
9A Esplanade 
102-i Amheist Spy,. 
34 Chowringlxv 
89/1, College Street 
89-1 College Si net 
13 Rajelidia ■Natl, 
k her joe Road 
8, Wellesley Street 
19 Strand Road 
110, Surcndru \ 
Banerji Rd 
39, Sankar (jliose La 
31, Chowringhee It, 
102-1 Amheret Sti M 
8, Wellesley Street 
34 Chowringhet 
Hi Strand Road 
D-3, Gillander H<uw 
33-1 AmheiM Stmt 
3 1 , Chowringluu) Hon 
Victoria House 
23B, Netaji Suhlue li 
14, India, E\ch.uiL f » I’ 
37, Ch<>\vriiiLrli»*<‘ 

25, Brahmin ie ID md 

E Rly House 
Norton Buildings i! 

Court House ( 'ohk 
37, Chowringhet 
93 Netaji Nuhli.u- Lki 
33, Netaji Suhlu II--. 
S India Em liaia'i I’! 
Gillander House. 

14 Old ('ouit LLwti!-' 
8, Mission Ih-w 
34 Chow ringlici 
4, Bankshall St 
101, Park Street 
34 Chow ringhet 
1 J- 3 Brahounu J !<>.e 
9 Lyons Bailee 
4 ( 3iv« Row. 

37 ( ’howi me In « 

2, Netaji Nubh.i- 1M 
1 Hast mgs Si h « t 

8, Netaji Nul-li-i. 

E Rly Hoiim 

2, Netaji Subli.e- Bd 
1 9 St rand Bead 
E RJy Hous< 

9, (Church Bane. 

29 Netaji Sul>)«as 


Victoria House. 


Asstt. Hoare Miller & Co, Lt d 
Chief Moehanical Estimator Jessup & (Jo Ltd 
Prol St Xavier’s College 
Asstt, J Thomas & Co Pie, Ltd 
Asstt. ,Hour Miller & Co Ltd 
Professor, St Xavier’s College 

Comm. Engr, Associated Elect! Industries (Tndia), 
Ltd 

Asstt, Bird & H ielgers 
Mg Director, Bird & Co (Pte) Ltd 

Engr., Int ernational Construction India P e, Ltd . . 
Asstt Sales Dept, Imperial Tobacco Co of India 
Personal Mhnager, Indian Aluminium Co, Ltd 
Mercantile Asstt-, Mackinnon Mackenzie Co 
Asstt, Rallis India, Ltd 


5 Fairly Plan 
93, Netaji Su blius JW 
30 Park St n et . 

8 Mission Row 
5, Fairlie Place. 

30, Park Street J 
13 Rajendra Nadi 

idler jee ltoad. 

■ — oiK h“ 
Dank. A 


Chartered BiinK K» |I,J 


Chartered 
dings. 

101, Park Street 
37, Chow.mgye 
31,ChoW'iing^ ikC 
19 Strand Read 
16 Hare Street. 



Names. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


Pinto, J J» Ml • • . . 

>into, Peter, BOOM 

Poddar. Nikhil K, ma 
P oddiir, Sailendra Sundar, MA . . 
pohit, Chittaranjan 
Pogson Oyrril Anbyn 

P: 1 1 man, B, BA BL . . 

Poonewalla, R M 
Poonovala, KM 
Porter, FB 
portentis, John 
Prokash, Narain Haksar 

Pramanick, Jagabandhu, BSC, 
ARLCS 

Pramanick, Rabindra Nath, BCom 

Pranprosad 

Prosad Romesh 

Piosad, f nder, BSC . . 

hursiey, R. W. H. B., MA (Oxon) 

Pun, UK 

Pun, Satinder 

Pm i, Vidyartlii Deolal, MA LLB 
Puri, Karncsli 
Pi I SKI \ , .7 W 

i'.UK . Santosli Kumar, MSe 


Professor, St Xavier’s College 

Asstt, Burniah Oil Co (India) Trading, Ltd 

Prof, City College 

Lect, Moulana Azad College* 

Plant Engr, OEC 

Merchandise Dept Associated Electrical Industries 
(India) Pie Ltd. 

Asstt Acctts Deptt, Indian Aluminium Co, Ltd 

Asstt, Kilbum & Co, Ltd 

AsHtt, Rallis India, Ltd 

Asstt, Jardine Henderson 

Asstt, Marine Supdt, Bankline (1) Pte, Ltd 

Director, Dunlop Rubber Co (India) Ltd 

Valuation Officer, Calcutta Improvement Trust 


30, Park Street 

28-29 India Exchange 
Place. 

102/1, Amherst Street 
S Wellesley Strict. 

0, Chittaranjan Avenue, 
ff. Mission Row. 

31 Chowringhee Road. 

2 Pairlec Place. 

1 <» Hare St rcct . 

4 (’live Row. 
t> Lyons Range. 

. r >7B Fivr School Street. 
10 Nctaji Subhas Road. 


Sub-Acctt, Reserve Bank of India 
Senior Executive*, Bird & Co Pte, Ltd . . 
Asstt, Carritt Moran & Co Privato Ltd 
Dy Sales Manager, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 
Asstt Manager, Oxford University Press 
Asst, Macneill & Barry 
Asstt, James Finlays & Co, Ltd 
Prof, City College (Com) 

Administrative, Guest, Keen Williams Ltd 
Asstt , Shaw Wallace & Co, Ltd 
lecturer. Presidency College 


8, Council House Street 
Chartered Bank Bids. 

0, Mission Row 
23B Nctaji Subhas Rd. 
Mercantile Buildings. 

2, Fairlie Plain* 

2 Nctaji Subhas Road. 
13 Siirvu Sen Si reel . 

41, Chowriugheo. 

4 Bankshall St reef . 

8b/l, College Street,. 


Q 

Quinlan, J B 


Asst, Turner Morrison & Co Pte Ltd 


b, Lyons Range 


R 


fUlx Ti<», A E 

Hiulmall, William George 
iW'liauin, C V 
Whuvan, P P, BOOM, BL 
Haghaban, V. S. V. A.M.I.E. 
. AMI (ILoeo) E. 
jlagliahiin, R Y r . . 

Lilta, Tarapada, ma 
j ^hajiian, MCOM 
^luunan, Majbur, MA. . 

K, MA (Eton) 
{^J a k r( >])alan, M. I). 

S B J 

a jkumar, Srivastava 
‘ a Juliah , Rukmangathiah , 

(nons) 

frkahit, Sudhir Ch, msc 
i^an, « V 
penial,, S V 7 
^nainurti, AS 
>amurti, V, ba 

R BA(Hons) 
{Shandani, M V 
Karn u ndrttn > M, MAfMath) 

^tZ: V y a BA 

P G V, BA BL 
Cr,': a _ n 'K.BABL 


E. 


BSC 




P. S. 

^ami, BS 


^wami,MNayak 

is ^a, Cbittor Subramanier 


. Asst, Macneill & Barry 
Engr, Jessup & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Macncili & Barry, Ltd 
. Secretarial Asstt , Babcock & Wileose of (Ind) Ltd 
Engr, The English Electric Co. Ltd. 

Const Acett, B B & J Constrn Co, Ltd 
. Professor, Surendra Nath College 
iVof, St Xaviers College 
Asstt Prof, Moulana Azad College 
Officer, Karam Chand Thaper & Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Burn & Co 
Dy Control k*r of St ores, E Illy 
Dist Sales Manager, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Engineer , Associated Electrical Industries 
(India), Ltd 

Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co, Ltd 

Asstt, J Thomas & Co Pte, Ltd . . * ’ 

Asstt, Macneill and Barry, Ltd 
Asstt Acctts Officer, P & T 
AAO, DAGP&T 
Actg. Assistant, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Research Officer, Iron & Steel Control 
Asstt Acctts Officer, P & T 
Asstt, Babcock & Wilcox 

Asstt, Acctts Deptt, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 

Indian Asstt Acctt, Mercantile Bank, Ltd 
Asstt Tata Iron & Steel & Co Ltd . . . 

Elect Engr, Ovtavius Steel & Co, Ltd . . 

Chief Acctt, Air Survey Co of India Private Ltd . . 


Estimatin g Office, Jeasop & Co, Ltd 


2, Fairlie Place 
b3, Nctaji Subhas Rd 
2 Fail-lie Place. 

1 | 3 Brabournc Road. 

D-3, Gillandcr House. 

P-13 Mission Row K.\tn. 
24, Harrison Road 
30 Park Street. 

8 Wellesley Street. 

25 Brn bo u me Road. 

12, Mission Row. 

E Rly House. 

6, Church Lane 

6, Mission Row 

39. Shankar Chose Lane 
4 Tbinkshull Street. 

8 Mission Row. 

2, Fairlie Place 

7, Kailaghat Street 
7 Koilughut Street . 

C, Church Lane 

33, Nctaji Subhas Road 
7, Koilaghat Street 
1&3, Braboume Road 
31 Chowringhi e Road. 

8 Netaji Subhas Road. 
23/B, Nctaji Subhas 
Road. 

14 OJd Court House >St. 

31, Chittaranjan Avenue 

63, Netaji Subhas Road 



No, 


Names. 


36 

Style or calling. 


2050 RamkriHhimn, K S 

2051 Ramkrishnan. S I 

2052 Ramamritam, S. 

2053 Ram nath. 1* R 

2054 Ramanatii, C K 

2055 Kaiia, Jagadis Janardan, MA 

LLB. 

2056 Rangamani. T S, BA 

2057 Rangaswamy, D 

2058 Rungaswamv, S 


Shifting Asstt, Imperial Tobacco Co of India, Ltd 
Assistant, James Finlay & Co, Ltd 
Dist. Contr of Strs, E Rly . . 

Asstt, Slialimar Paint Colour & Varnish Co, Ltd 
Saleroom Asstt, Brooke Bond. India Pte, Ltd 
Asstt Jeewanlal (1920) Ltd 

Asstt, Acett s Dcptl , Indian Aluminium Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Slialimar Paint Colour & Varnish Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Slialimar Pain Colour & VarniBh Co, Ltd 


2059 Rao, A K 

2060 Rao, A. R. S. 

2061 Rao, Bam Chandra, R S 


Asstt, Jardine Hnederson . . 
Divl Engr, E. Rly 

Asstt Engr, E Rly 


2062 Rao. B M, BSc, (Osmania) D.F.H. 

BSe, (Eng) (l^oiid) A 

2063 Rao, D. K. P 

2064 Rao, J) S, bsc (Hons), d ii sc 

2065 Rao, G V K, LLB, DIR 

2066 Rao, llatiangadi Kalidas 

2067 Rao, Peri Bhaskara, MSe (Matha) 


Engr, English Electric Co, Ltd 


Br Engr, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 

Engr. English Electric Co, Ltd 

Asstt Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co, Ltd 

See Oflicer, Tata Iron & Steel Co Ltd . . 


2068 

2069 

2070 

2071 

2072 

2073 

2074 

2075 

2076 

2077 

2078 

2079 

2080 
2081 
2082 

2083 

2084 

2085 

2086 


2087 

2088 

2089 

2090 

2091 

2092 

2093 

2094 

2095 

2096 

2097 

2098 

2099 

2100 
2101 
2102 

2103 

2104 

2105 

2106 

2107 

2108 

2109 

2110 

2111 

2112 

2113 


Rao, l\ S. B., BCom, LLB (Cal) 
Rao, R N, A.C.A. 

Rao, S Rajagopala, BSc.,DHS< 

Rao, Y L, BA 

Rao, T R C 

Rashid, A Z H, MA , . 

Ray, A jit Kumar, ma, er. 

Roy, Ajit Kumar 

Roy, Avnal Sinha 

Ray, Ambika Prasad, M.sc 

Ray, Amalendii 

Ray, Amarendm, Nath, MSe 

Roy, Anupam 

Ray, Arun Kumar, msc 

Ray, Arun Ch, MSe . . 

Ray, Asis Kumar, MA 
Ray, Ashim, msc 

Ray, Ashim, MSe, 

Ray, Asimkumar, BSc 
B Arch AIIA. 

Ray, B 

Ray, Ba.idya.nath, MCom 
Bay, Bhabatosli, bk, ce 
Ray, Bhabaui Prasad 
Ray Bijnaiianaiula 
Ray, B K 

Ray, Birendra Natli, BCom 
Ray, Chandrika, BCom 
Ray, D 
Ray, I) K 

Ray, Debabrata, MA BCom 
Ray Dili]) Kumar, mcom, aoa 

Ray, Di])ak 

Ray, DP 

Ray, Copal Ch 

Ray, llinnmsu Kr., MA 

Ray, J C 

Ray , .Litindranath , msc 
Roy, Jatiranjan, MA, AUB 

Ray, K , BL 

Ray Kalyan Kumar . . 

Ray, Kamal Kumar . . 

Ray, K K 

Ray, Kurnud Bandliu 
Ray, Lakhan Ch 

Ray, Manindra Ch, bmeqipe 
(Lond) 

Ray, Monoranjan 


See Oflicer, Tata Iron & Steel Co. 

Acett, Bird & Co, Ltd 
Engr, English Electric Co, Ltd 
Dy Manager, Bank of Baroda Ltd 
Ditto 

Loot Moulana. Azad College 

Assistant, Gillanders Arbuthnot & Co, Ltd 

Inspector ot Acetts, Port Commissioners 
Prof St Xavier’s College 
Engr, English Electric* Co, Ltd 
Ditto 

Asstt Sr Officer, Life Insurance Oorpn of India Unit 
— Hindusthau Co-operative Insurance Society. 
Asstt Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Astt Pot*, Presidency College 
Loci Moulana Azad College 
Prof, Bangs, has i Co liege 
l^c, Cal Tech School 

Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Asstt Areht, Office of the Govt Architect 

A P R O E Rly 

Asst 1 Acett, C E S|C Ltd 

Asstt, Valuer, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
Sr OfUee Asstt Imperial Tobacco (Jo of India Ltd 
Professor, Bangabnsi College 
Asstt A cots Officer, A G Bengal 
Supdt, R B of India 
Asstt Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Asstt Acetts Officer, E Rly 
Asstt Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Ditto 

Asstt Br Acett, Voltas Ltd 
Asstt J, Thomas & Co Pte Ltd 
Asstt A W Figgis & Co Pte Ltd 
Staff Asstt, State Bank of India 
Professor, City College (Evening) 

Asstt Controller of Stores, E Rly 
T^ecturer, City College 

Ind Asstt Accountant, Mercantile Bank, Ltd 
Ex Engr Cal, Improvement Trust 
Sr Asstt Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 
Asstt James Warren & Co Ltd 
Asstt KilBum & Co Ltd 

Acett & Cashier, Associated British Machine Tool 
Makers (I) Ltd. 

Office Asstt Imperial Tobacco Co. of India Ltd 
Sales Engr, Standard Vacuum 

Shipping Asstt. Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd • • 


Reaidenoe or place 
business. 

37 Chowringh(K\ 

2, Netaji Subhas f 
E Rly House 
6 Lyons Range 
2 Metcalfe Ntie« \ 
31, Netaji Nublms 

31 Cbowringhee 
6 Lyons Range 
6 Lyons Range. 

4 Clive Row. 

E Rly House. 

E Rly House. 

l>-3, Gillander Hous* 


37, Chowringlie'*. 
D-3, Gillander 11 oust 
31 Chowri lights* R (U 
4, Bankshall Street. 
23B, Netaji Su 
Road . 

Ditto. 

Chartered Bank Thnli 
D-3, Gillander H (HIM 
India Exchange < '.il< 
Ditto. 

J )itto. 

Clive Buildings 

15, Strand Road 
30 Park Str«v1 
D-3, Gillander Rohm 
D itto. 

4 Chittanmjan A\ « :n 

12 Mission Row. 
86-1, College Street 
Ditto. 

25, Scott Lane 
110, S N Banerjee lltl 

39, Shankar <dio.v 1. 
Writers’ Buildings 


Esplanade Mansion. 
Victoria House 


10, Netaji Subh Un 
37 Cliowringhee Boa* 
25, Scott. Lane 
Trasury Buildings 
8, Council House Str< 
14 India Excising** 1* 

E Rly. Houst 

4 Clive Row . 

Ditto. 

8, Netaji Subhas Ro»« 
8 Mission Row. 

D-6 (jillaiuler Him*'. 


3 Strand Komi. 
102/1, Amherst 
E Rly House. 

102-1. Amherst Street 
8, Netaji Sublm- 
10 Netaji SubliAsh K* 


Hon' 1 - 


4 Fairlie l’laee 
31 Chowringhet 
2 Fairlie Plat*- 
6 Old P-St OHire & 


Ditto. 

6, Church L»» e 
2 Metcalfe Street- 



tfo. 


Names. 


37 

Style or calling. 


14 Roy, MN, BA 

j*i Kav. Mrinal Kanti, BEE 
jJ; i; a y, Muralidhar 


Dy Controller, Stationery Office, Govt of India 

Elec, Insp, Directorate of Electricity, W Bengal 
Engr, B B & J Construction Co Ltd. 


!7 Kay* ^ . R. • • • . Asstt OP Supdt, E Rly 

[K Ray, Narondra Nath, BA (Hon) Sr Acctt, E Rly 
\U K.i'v, Narosh Chandra, MSC .. Professor, Vidyasugar College 
(Double) 

i,i pay. Nirrnal Chand . . . . Jr Asstt Gladstone Lvall & Co Ltd 

,j j’aA , N K - . - . Asstt Acctts, Officer, A G Bengal 

>> }{aV, Nisith Ranjan, MA . . Professor, St Paul's College 

jo k ; iN % Nripendra Nath, ma, bl . . Auditor, Lovelock Lewes, Chartered Accountants 

•4 K.i\, Nripendra Prasad . . Mg Director, A W Figgis G Co Pte Ltd 


Kay, Parimal Kumar, BSc 
li Kav, Prabuddha Nath, MA 
7 K>‘\ , Prabhat Kuinar, MA 

A 

i f /Tfo\ , 1 'rad ip Kr, MA 

ii Kay, PS 

» Kay, it. N. 

I Kuv, Prosanta Kumar, ma 

• Kay, U. N. 

\ Kay, UN 

I Kay, Ramakanta, BCoin 
. Ka\ Samar Kumar, BSc 
i Ka \ . Santimoy, ma 
K a v, Santosh Kr, msc 
‘ Kay, S. N 

• Ra\ , Suhodh 

1 Pay, Sunil Ch, MSc BT 

Kay, S. K., BSc, LLB 
Key, S K, M Com 


Engr Babcock & Wilcox of (hid) Ltd . . 

Lecturer, Moulana Azad College 
Prof City (Allege (Evening) 

Loot IMoulana Azad College 
Asstt Seall & Saxby 
Asstt. Acctts Officer, A G Bengal 
Professor, Surendra Nath College 
Asstt Contr of Stores, E Rly 
Asstt Acctt Port Commissioners of Calcutta 
Asstt, Bank of Baroda Ltd 

Secy The Patterson Engineering Co (India) Pte Ltd 
Lecturer, City College 
Professor, Presidency College 
Asstt Agencies Martin Burn Ltd 
Sub Acctt, State Bank (Park St Br) 

Dip, in Education (Edin) Dy Ch Jus. Secondary 
Education Dicto. r 

Officer, Karamchand Thappar & Bros Pte Ltd 
Prof Surendra Nath College 


III >\ S P 

Key S K 

Khv, Sunil Singh 

hey, »S. K, b.k.ij:, a mie (Ind) 

S N, MA DSW 
K;n , ttuhhas Sinehan, ma 
Huy Knhodh . . 


Administrator, Guestkoon Williams Ltd 
Asstt Mech Engr, E Rly 
India Asstt Acctt Mercantile Bank Ltd 
Asstt Director, Iron & Steel Control 
I)y Labour Commissioner, W B 
Prof, Surendra Nath College 
Acctt Octavious Steel & Co Ltd 


H<>\ , Sukumar, BME 

Ha\ Sukumar Chandra, BSc. 


Hay Sunil Ch, MSc, BT 
H«*y, Sunil Kimar, MA 


H ; u Supriya, Msc 
Hay, T S, BA 


H }l y, Tu pas Ranjan, BCom, ACA 


Hay fhaudhury, A K 

Hay Pliaudhuri, Amit Kumar, 

MSc 

Hay Phaiidliuri, Amal Kumar, 

MSc* 

Ha! ( ■hniidhuri, Amal Kumar 
Hai fhoudhuri, Anil Kumar MA 
^Hniidhuri, Hemondra Ch . . 
ay ( 'ha mi hu ri , J yotirbasu , 

,, J^>m, MA 
*°y Finn, floury, LM 

wl - v Fhaudhuri, Murari Mohon, 
ma 


{‘“.V cihaudhuri, Naresh Ch, MA 
** ^h-.iulhuri, Nirmal Ch. MA, 

• ( ’l>audhury, N N 

' Lv 

|, y Chowdhury, Prithia Ch, ma 

hi ^ au dhuri, 8 
m y Chaudhuiy, S, Mao 


Sales Engr, Strandard Vacuum 
Director, Dev of Industries 

Dy CIS E, Directorate of Public Instruction 
Loot St Pauls Cathedral Mission College 
Led St Paula Cathedral Mission (Jolloge 
Asstt Controller, Stationery Office Govt of India . . 
Asstt Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 

Asstt Com Supdt, E Rly 
Prof, St. Xavier’s College 

Asstt, Bird & Co (Pte) Ltd 

Prof, Presidency College 

Prof Bangabosi College 
Ex Engr, B B & J Construed. ion (Jo Ltd 
Dy Ch Acctt, W & S Acctts Deptt, Corpn of Cal- 
cutta 

Vigilance Officer, E Rly 
Asst Professor, Presidency College 

Lecturer, Maulana Azad College 
Asstt Prof Presidency College 

Com Engr Lighting Div Associated Electrical 
Industries (Ind) Pte Ltd. 

Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Asstt Ex. Engr Part Commissioners of Calcutta . . 
Prof, Surendra Nath College 


Residence or plaoe of 
business. 

. . 3, Church Lane 

1, Harish Mukhcrjee Rd. 
P13, Mission Row. 

Extension 
E Rly House. 

E Rly House. 

30, Sankar Chose Lane 

Ditto. 

Trasury Building. 

33/1, Amherst Street 
4, Lyons Range 

D-0, Gillander House 
Cal - 1 . 

1 & 3 Brabourno Road. 
8, Wellesley Street . 

. 102/1 Amharst Street. 

8 Wellesley Street. 

. Chartered Bank Build 
Trasury Buildings. 

24, Harrison Road 
. . E Rly House 
. 15 Strand Road. 

. India Exchange Calcutta 
21 Theatre Road. 

102-1, Amherst Street 
. 80-1, College Street 

12 Mission Row. 

Queens Mansion. 

Writers’ Buildings. 

. 25, Brabourno Road. 

24/2 MahatrnaGandhi 
R< >ad. 

41 Chouringhee Road. 

E Rly House. 

K Notaji Suhhas Road. 

33, Netaji Bubkas Road 
1 Hastings Street. 

. 24 Harrison Road 

J4 Old Court House 
Street. 

0, Church Latin 
135 Princcp St. 

Writers’ Buildings 
Ditto 

33/1 Amherst Street. 

3 Charch Lower. 

B-4 Gillander House- 

3 Koilaghat Street 
30 Park Street 

Chartered Bank Buil- 
dings 

H0/1 College Stroo* 

25/ L Scott Lane. 

P-B Mission Row L\t». 

5 S N Banerjee Road 

E Rly House. 

80-1, College Street 

8, Wellesley Street 
80/1 College Street. 

13 Rajondra N. Mukher 
jee Road. 

39 Sankar Chose Lane 

15 Strand Road. 

24 Harrison Read 



38 


No, Names. 


Style or calling. 


2172 RayChaudhuri, Sailendra N . . T)y License Offr License I)epi Corpn of Calcutta . 

2173 Roy Chowdhury, Sisir Kumar, Engr, Calcutta University 

AMIE 

2174 Ray Chaudhuri Slid hind ra Kumar Internal Auditor. Walf«»rd Transport- Ltd 

2175 Ray Chaudhury, Sudhir Kumar Dept Supt, The Eastern Bank Ltd 

2176 Ray Chaudhury, Sunil Kr, MA, Asstt Prof, Maulana A zad College 

PhD (London) 

2177 Ray Chaudhury, Sunil Oh. . . Asstt. Martin Burn Ltd 

2178 Ray Chaudhuri, Sushil Kumar, ma Professor, Bangahutu College 

2179 Razdan, BL . . . . Asstt Male-mill Barry Ltd 

2180 Reeve Henry Charles . . Director, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 

2181 Reginald, Hilbert, Brown . . Asstt Octavious Steel & Co Ltd 


2182 Reid -dick, .1 0 

2183 Rego William Terrance, MSe 

2184 Renga, Ra j an J 

2185 Revawala Punamchand Pocha- 

bhai, MA 

2186 Ribbins, George William 

2187 Riddey, W G 

2188 Rikhye, Rajeswarlal . . 

2189 Hitch i, J 

2190 Roach, Joseph Desmond 

2191 Robertson, (1 K 

2192 Robertson, Ronald 


Asstt Minerals Dept Bird & (Jo Pt,e Ltd 
Planning Co-on linator, Sta.nclard Vacuum Oil Co 
Secretary, Carrit Moran <V Co Pte Ltd 
Asstt Scindia Steam Navigation Co Ltd 

Sr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 

Traffic Manager, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Asstt Williamson Mag or & Co Ltd 
Dy Genl Mangr, Allahabad Bank Ltd . . 

Asstt Tloare Miller »V Co Ltd 

Asstt Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Asst Personal Officer, < l -ESC Ltd 


2193 Robertson William Stewart 

2194 Robindranath K R, MA 

2195 Rabin son, E I) 

2196 Robinson, James Gordon 

2197 Robinson, James Richard 

2198 Roohor, UK 

2199 Rodewald, C N 

2200 Radgers, RA 

2201 Bose, P D 

2202 Rowe, David Leslie Vivian 

2203 Reewe, S B 

2204 Ruddock, M N Scott 

2205 Rudra, Bikasli Kumar 

2206 Rudra, Jitondra N, msc 

2207 Rudra, Sachindranath, msc 

2208 Rugson, C C 


Mauager, Print ing, liti]ierial Tobacco Co of India 
Ltd. 

Dy Ch Auditor, Eastern Railway 

Marine Supdt, India Genl Navigation <V Ry Co. Ltd 
Mg Director, Brook Bond (India) Pto Ltd 

Mangr. Lighting Di\ Associated Electrical Indus- 
tries (Inri ) Pte Ltd 
Jr Asst-t Gladstone Lyoll Co Ltd 
Dir, Turner Morrison <V Co Pt e Ltd 
Asstt Macncil! A Ban v Ltd 

Asstt, to Person nol ()irecfor Printing, Imperial 'To- 
bacco Co of India, Lt d. 

Dir, Bird & Co Pte Ltd 

Civil Engr, Mackintosh Burn (Pte) Ltd 

Asstt. James Pinlays A Co Ltd 

Corn Engr Lighting Div Associated Electrical 
Industries (Ind) Pte Ltd. 

Asstt Professor, Presidency College 
Prof, Bangabasi College 
Security Officer, E Rly 


S 


2200 Sabhftrwal. A I,, BA 

2210 Sadka, S 

2211 Saha, A; it Kumar, msc 

2212 Saha, B»i kiui Chandra, ma 

2213 Saha* Brojendra Lai, ma 

2214 Saha, BN 

2215 Saha, Haran Chandra 

2216 Saha, K C 

2217 Saha, Kanmlkrishna, msc 

2218 Saha, Narayail Chandra 

2219 Saha, Narayan Chandra 

2220 Saha, Nripondra Molian, msc 

2221 Saha, Panohugopal, BA, BL 

2222 Saha, Ramosh Chandra BE 

(Medi), CE 

2223 Saha, Suresh Chandra. 

2224 Saha, S K, MCom 

2225 Saha, Upendralal, msc 

2226 Sahay Sachehidanand 

2227 Saigol, J P, MA, AM (USA; 

2228 Saigol, CLP 

2229 Sain, Kamalakanta, MA 

8 B, M Com 


Genl Manager. Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 
Asstt. Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Asst Prof, Presidency College 
Professor, St Paul's College 
Prof, Bangabasi College 
Asstt Acofcts Officer, P Rly 
Asstt Engr, Cal Tramways Co, Ltd 
P O E Rly 

Prof, Bangabasi College 
IxH'turer, M aulana A /.ad College 
Prof, City College, Com Dept. 

Asstt Professor, Presidency College 
Asstt, Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Inspr of Boilers, West Bengal 

Modi Drawing Office Jessup & Co Ltd 
Controller of Imports & Exports 
Lecturer, Surendranath College 
Sub Editor, Statesman Ltd 

Employee Relation Manager, Standard Vacuum Oil 
Co. 

Supdt State Bank of India 

Lect St Panls Cattebo&l Mission College 

Astt Secy, Indian Chamber of Commerce 


Residence or pj^ 
business. 

5 S N Bam jo J;. 
Calcutta Ujiiv,. r „j f , 

71 Park St 
14 Netaji Suldias u 

8 Wellesley Street 

12 Mission lio\ v 
19, Scott. Lium 
2 Fair ho PL ( ,> 

37 Chowringh » 

14 Old Court Heim 
Street. 

Charterer I Ji.uik Hl-i 

6 Church Line 

9 Mission P».e| 

33 Netaji Suldia. \[ 

4 Fairlie Place 

37 Chowring I ice R ()i 
4 Mangoe Lam- 
14 India Exchange ] 
f> Fairly Place. 

4 Clive Row . 
Victoria Hou.se, (1 
ringhcc So 
3 1 C-lio wringing. jtu 

1G Strand Road 

4 Fairlie Place, 

2 Metcalfe Street 

13 Raj end 1. 1 \ Mui v 

jee IS,.,. id. 

4 Fairlee Place 
6 Lyons kumr* 

. 2 Fairlie I'l.i. . 

37 Chowrmg!ie*> 1 1- <a 

Charterd B'uik bmldi 
8 Netaji Suhlias Ilo.ii 
2 Netaji Subh.h It'll. 
13 Raj on dr. i X Mukh 
jee Road 

86/1 . ( -oIl<‘L'c Street 
25, Scott Lane 
E Rly 1 i * >n 


4 Clive Row. 

86/1 ( -ollege M 

33/J , Afiihei.-t Sticr 
19 Soott Lane 
E Rly Il f)UiS< 

J*4 Mission \U>w 

K Rly House 


19 Scott Lane 
8, Wellesley Sin-et 
13 Mirzapur St reet 

sea, coii-r 

Allahabad BanK h - 
1 Hastings Str-s-t 


63 Netaji S'' 1 ^ 

4 Ksplanad.' K' 1 ' 1 
24, Hai r.scn K« ,ul 
4 Chovvringls' 0 
6 Church banr 



39 


10 . 


Names. 


Style or o&lling. 


Residenoe or plaoe of 
business. 


U Saksena, Karaalesh K., MA 
Saldhana, R A, BSc (Hons), MS 
^ Samanta, N B 
54 Kandys-Lumsdaino, Patrick 
Sankaran, L 

^ Samuels David Francis 
^ Sanval, Amarendra N, mi 
Sanval, Ash u tosh, MA 
W Sanval, Bhupondra Nath, MSo . . 
*0 Sanval, Sudhindra Kumar, mso 


41 Samaddar, Sudhangsu, bbb 
4.1 Sajutiayer, Ganapati 
4:1 Sankaranarayan, N . . 

41 Sarbadhikari, B C, MA 
4;, Sarbadhikari, Timir Ranjan, mso 
1 *; Sardar, Seet.a Nath 
*47 Sarkar, A Iv 

»4K Sarkar, Ajit Kumar, D.F.H. 


141 j Sarkar, Ajoy Kumar, ma, bi, 

>Vi Sarkar, Anilkumar, msc 
74 Sarkar, Arunendu 
>“ )L > Sarkar, Ashoko Hari, BSc, Boom 
Sarkar, Atul Oh, mcom 
.4 Sarkar, Balai Chandra 

Sarkar, Bani Shankar, MA 
7 >ti Sarkar, Benoyendra, ma 
7)7 Sarkar, B, BA 
7s Sarkar, B K 
!.V,i Sarkar, D P, M»Sc 
Kin Sarkar, Gojjondra Prasanna, BEE 
h| Sarkar, TTarimohan, MSc 
Sarkar, Jagadisli Oh, MSc 
Sarkar, Dr Jatil Oh, ma,?hd 
!»i4 Sarkar, Kalipada., MSc 
!*m Sarkar, Karnal Krishna, BA 
!»ifi Sarkar, Manabondra 
.'OT Naikar, MM 
Ms Sarkar, M N, Msc 
■*>'.» Sarkar, Niranjan, ma,llb 

Sarkar, P O, MSc 
IT I Sarkar, PK 

-T« Sarkar, Phanindra Nath, BEE . . 
-T'i Sarkar, Pritiinan, MSc 
-d Sarkar, Ramatosh, MSc 
Sjnkar, Kcbatiranjan, MA 
L> ' Sarkar, Rcbati Raman, MA 
*•" Sarkar, R P 
Sarkar, R R 
Sankar, SN,MA 
Sarkax, San jit Kumar 
^ ar ^ a r, Sanat K, MSo 
Sarkar, San tosh Kumar, MSc, 

I > Phil. 

r, ’! s ; l *-kar. Subhas, MA 
“ * Sarkar, Susham, BA 
Sarkar, Sudhindra 


“> S -I ^ ir k;«r. S R, M. B- A. (Harvard). . 

cl ar ^ ar » Shib Shankar, msc 
* * Sarkar , Tamil Oh ,BA 

S A N ,BA 

basmal, Ariadi Krishna, bmb 


^astri, S 

B.L.C. 

* lr h Oauri-ath (Dr) 

Saatri, Kali Charan, ma 

° a tyanath , TO 

S ri 'VAN, BCom , LLB 
^tanathan, V, BA (Hons), MA 
1 e (Kcon) 7 

>rkar,SD 

\ funders, D J ' ■ 

P A „ 


Asstt Acctt, R B of India 
E R Asstt, Standard Varum Oil Co 
Dist Engr (Project), E RIy 
Asstt Williamson Magor Co Jitd 
Sr Accounts Officer, (Con) 

Sales Engr, Heatly Gresham Ltd 
Prof, Surendranath College 

Professor, City College (Evening) • • 

Prof, City College (Evening) 

Lecturer, Calcutta Technical School 

lecturer* Calcutta Technical School 
Asstt Engr, B B & J Construction Co, Ltd 
Dy Ch Elec Engr 

Suh- Agent, Central Bank of India Ltd 

Lecturer, Presidency College 

Asstt Engr, B B & .1 Construction Co, Ltd. 

Asstt. Burn & Co Ltd 

Asstt Engr, Associated Electrical Industries (India) 
Pte Ltd. 

Staff Officer, The Chartered Bank • • 

Prof, Bangabasi College 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Taro Expert Lovelock & Lewes 
Asstt Registrar ot Companies, West Bengal 
Acctt, Lipton Ltd 
Prof, City College (Com Dept) 

Lecturer, City College 
A A O, D‘A G P & T Office 
Offg Ex Engr, IIO Port Commissioners 
Prof St x av i° ur 8 College 

Elec Insp, Directorate of Electricity Jhuigal 

Lecturer, Presidency (College 
Lecturer, Presideney College 
Asstt Prof, Man lan a A /.ad College 
Prof, Surondra Nath ( College 

Asstt Bank of China 

Wagon Drawing Office, Jessop <V Co Ltd 
Asstt, .Com Snpdt E RIy 
Asst. Controller, Stationery Office 
Prof, City College (Com) 

Asstt Acctt, Iron & Steel Controller 
Acctt, Octavius Steel & Co, Ltd 
Asstt Mains Engr, C E S C Ltd 
Lecturer, Presidency College 
Leot in Math, St Paul’s College 
Professor, Citv College (Coin Dept) 

Prof, City College (Evening) 

Dy Contr of Stores, E RIy 

Qnty Surveyor, Port Commissioner, Calcutta 
Asstt, Acctt, Officer, E RIy 
Asstt, Bird & TIcilgers 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Prof Surondra Nath College 

Prof, Surendra Nat h College 
Asstt, Martin Burn Ltd 

Dy Ch Valuer, Chief Valuner A- Surveyor ’s Dept 
Corpn of Cal. 

Asstt, Sales Doptt, Indian Aluminium ( ■«>, Ltd 
Prof, Bangabasi College 
Asstt, Metal Deptt, Martin Burn Ltd 

Supdt State Bank of India 
Lecturer, Calcutta Technical School 

Sales Director, Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 

Dy Ch. Op. Supdt, E RIy 
Principal, Sanskrit College 
Prof, Sanskrit College 
Asstt, J Thomas & Co Pte Ltd 
Officer, Karam Chand Thapor & ( k*. Ltd 
Asstt Acctt, National & Grin dl ays Bank Ltd 
(Lloyds Branch) _ , 

CALL B-Supflt Central Bank of (1) Ltd 

Personel Offr, James Warren & Co Ltd 

Asstt Kilbura & Co Ltd • • • • ** 


8 Council House St. 
f> (hureb Lane. 

38 Chowringhee Road 
4 Mangoe Lane. 

.48 ( houriughee. 

,‘H ( hittarunjan Avonuc. 

24 Harrison Road 
142/1 Ainhemst St reet 
102 l Amherst St rreet . 

110 Surendra Natli 
Bauer j* Road 
J |0 S. N. Hauer j 1 Rd 
Pl 3 Mission Row Extn. 
E RIy House. 

33 Netaji Subhas Road 
80/1 College Street 
PI 3 Mission Row Extn. 
12 Mission Row 

1 .4 Rajendra Nath Mu- 

kberjee ltd. 

4 Netaji Subhas Road 

25 Scott Lane 

39 Shankar Gliose Lane 
4 Lyons Range. 

27 Brabourne Road 
0 Weston Street . 

13 Mirzapur Street 
102-1 Amherst Rt.reet 

7 Koilaghat Street. 
lf> Strand Road 

30 Park Str<*‘t. 

I llarisb Mukhcrjee ltd 
80/1 College Street 
SO/I College Street 

8 Wellesley Street, 

24 Harrison Road 
lb Brabourne Road. 

04 Netaji Subhas ltd. 

.4 Koilaghat Street. 

.4 ( hureb Lane 

13 Mirzapur Street 
.4.4 Netaji Subhas ltd. 

14 Old Court House. St 
Victoria House 

80/1 College Street 
,43 / 1 Amherst Street 
1 .4 M n zs |uir Sti cet 
102/1 Amherst Street.. 

E RIy House 

If» St. raid Road. 

E RIy House. 

Chartered Bank Bldgs 
.40 Sankar Gliose Lane 
24 / 2 Mahatma, Gandhi 
Road. 

24 Harrison Rd 
12 Mission Row. 

5 S N Banerjee Road. 

.41 Chowringhee Jtoad 

25 Scot t Lane 

1 2 M ission Row 

.4 Strain! Road. 

110 Surendra Nath Ba- 
nc ‘rji Road 

2 Met <*alfe Str«*et. 

E Itly House 
Sanskrit ( College 
Sanskrit College 

8 Mission Row'. 

25 Brabourne Road. 

29 Netaji Subhas Road 

33 Netaji Subhas Rd. 

31 Chowringheo Road, 

2 Fairii© Plaoe* 



Names. 


No. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or pl^ 
business. 


2301 Scott, TF 

2302 Schimker.Charlos Victor, M I.E.E., 

(Lond), A. M. I. 

2303 Scoll Ian Campbell Orahani 

2304 Scott, R ON 

2305 Seal, Panchkari 

2306 Seal, Ninnal Kumar, BA 

2307 Sebastian, M P, MSc 

2308 Sen, A, M A 
2300 Sen, A K, BA 

2310 Sen, A K 

231 1 Sen, Ahindra Nath 

2312 Sen, Ajit Lai 

2313 Sen, Arun Kumar, BCom ACA 

2314 Sen, A C, BSe 

2315 Sen, Amur Nath, BA 

2316 Sen, Amalendu 

2317 Sen, Ashoke Chandra 

2318 Sen, Bacharam 

2319 Sen, Bijou, MA 

2320 Sen, Bir Singh 

2321 Sen, Bis vv ajit 

2322 Sen, Baidya Nath 

2323 Sen, Brojesh Ch, msc 

2324 Sen, I) 

2325 Sen, Debabrata, MA 

2326 Sen, Badal 

2327 Sen, Dobi Prosad, MA 

2328 Sen, Dilip Kumar, AA 

2329 Sen, Dilip Kumar, B Com, ACA 

2330 Sen, Pwipendra Nath, MSc 

2331 Sen, H N 

2332 Sen, Dipti Kumar, MSc 

2333 Sen, Jiten 

2334 Son, Jyoti Prakasli, MA 

2335 Sen, K N 

2336 Sen, Kalika Prosad, BSe, BE . . 

2337 Sen Kiron Ch, msc 

2338 Son, Mihir Kumar ma, m.B 

2339 Sen, Monilal, BSe 

2340 Sen Mrinal Kanti, BSe 

2341 Sen N 

2342 Son , Nihar Kanta, MSo 

2343 Sen, N B, B Coni 

2344 Son, N K 

2345 Sen, Nanilal, MA 

2346 Son, Nirmal Seliandra, BA 

2347 Sen, Nripendra Prasanna 

2348 Sen, PC 

2349 Sen, Pabitra Kumar, BE (Civil), 

AMI (Struct) E (UK) 

2350 Sen, Pankoj K, mso 

2351 Sen, Paritosh 

2352 Sen, Prabir Chandra, BCom 


Manager, Imperial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 
Asatt Manager, English Electric Co, Ltd 

Mangr, Steal Bros & Co Ltd 
Asstt James Finlays & Co Ltd 
Dept Supdt, Tho Eastern Bank Ltd 
Stuffp Asstt, Chartered Bank 
Prof, St Xavier’s College 
Prof St x» v icr's College 
Dy Asstt, Iron & Steel Controller 
Asstt Acctts, Officer, A G Bengal 
Accountant, CESC Ltd 

Jr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 
Asstt Regr, Office of the Regr of Companies W B 
A A O, D A G P & T Office 
City Supdt, Calendonian Insurance Co 

Engr Asstt, Gillanders Arbuthnot & Co Ltd 

Asstt Prof, Presidency College 

Sr Office Asstt, lmj>erial Tobacco Co of India Ltd 

Production Offr, Home (Pub) Dept 
Asst, James Finlay & Co 

Asstt, Macneill & Barry Ltd 

Sr Hd Asstt, Health Dept (Medical Br) W B 

Lecturer, Presidency College 

Asstt Industrial Dept, Bird & Co Pto Ltd 

Lect, Moulana Azad College 

Sub Editor, Statesman Ltd 

Asstt Prof, Presidency College 

Qnty Surveyor, Port Commissioner, Calcutta 

Asstt, Bird & Co (Pto) Ltd 

Asstt, Martin Burn Ltd 

Mercantile Asst t, Mack i non Mackenzie & Co 
Lecturer, Presidency College 
Sub Editor, Statesman Ltd 
Offioer-in-Charge, Martin Burn Ltd 
Ex Engr, Port Commissioners 
Asstt Mains Engr, CESC Ltd 
Asst Prof, Presidency College 
Professor, Vidyasagar College 
Statistic; Engr, C E S C Ltd 
Mains Engr., C E S C Ltd 
Asstt, Com Supdt, E Rly 

Officer- in -Charge, Share Dept Martin Burn Ltd 
Aectt, R B of India 

Mercantile Asstt-, Mackinnon Mackengio Si Co 

Professor, Bangabasi College 
Officer, Scindia Steam Navigation Co Ltd 

Asstt to Sales Director, fmperial Tobacco Co of 
India Ltd. 

Mercantile Asstt, Mackinon Mackenze & Co ' 

Civil Engr, Patterson Engineering Co Pte Ltd 

Vice Principal, Cal Tech School 
Inspector of A/C, HO Port Commissioners 
Asstt, Allahabad Bank Ltd 


2353 Sen, Pravat Kankar . . 

2354 Sen, Prafulla Kumar, BSc 

2355 Sen, Prafulla Sankar, ma 

2356 Sen, Premballav, ma 

2357 Sen, PS 

2358 Sen, It L, AME Meoh E 

2359 Sen, Rabindra, Nath mso 

2360 Sen, Rabindra Nath, MA, LLB, 

BCom (Lond) ASAA, FCA 
(Lond & Ind.) 

2361 Sen, Rahul, BA (Cal), CA (UK) 

2362 Sen, Ramendra K. 

2363 Sen, it K 

2364 Sen, S 


Asstt, Place Siddons & Gough Pte Ltd 
Asstt Aectt, James Warren & Co Ltd 
Asstt Prof, Maulana Azad Coliogo 
Prof, Bangabasi College 
Sub Editor, Statesman Ltd 
Sales Engr, Heatly & Grasham Ltd 
Lecturor, Presidency College 
Partner, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co . . 


Aectt, Brook Bond (India) Pte Ltd 
Prof, City College (Com Dept) 

Asstt, Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd 
Asstt, Scott 3s Saxty 


> . 37 Chowringhee. 

. . D-3 Gillander Ho lle 

. . Gillander House. 

. . 2 Netaji Suhhas R f 

• . 14 Netaji Suhhas R 

. . 4 Netaji Subh H sR 0 

► . 30 Park Street 

. . 30 Park Street. 

33 Netaji Suhhas f 
. . Treasury BmMin^. 
. Victoria House, rj l0 
ghee Sq 
4 Fairlio Place. 

27 Brabourne Load. 
. 7 Koilaghat St rect 

B-3 Gillander Housf 
Gillander House 
. 86/1 College Street 

37 ChowTinghcc. 

. Writers’ Buildings 
2 Netaji Suhhas Ihj 

. 2 Fairlee Place. 

. Writers’ Buildings. 

. 86/1 College Street 

Chartered Bank BI»h 
8 Wellesley Street 
4 Chowringhee N<j 
86/1 College Street 

15 Strand Road. 
Chartered Bank Kklf 
12 Mission Row . 

16 Strand Road. 
86/1 College St reel 
4 Ohowringhee S(j. 

12 Mission Row . 

15 Strand Rd 
Victoria House 
86/1 College Si 
39 Sank a i* Glioso Law 
Victoria House 
Victoria. House. 

3 Koilaghat Stre<t. 

12 Mission Bow . 

8 Council House Stu 
16 Strand Read. 

25, Scot! Lane 
33 Notaji SahlinsKd. 

37 Chowringhee. 


16 Strand Hoad. 
21 Theatre H<>ad 


110, S N Banerjee Kd 
16 Strand Bond 
14 India Kxehnnge 


'lace. 

,yons llange. 
Chowringhee 
•IIchI.V Street 
eott Lane 


86/1 College St 
B-4 Gillander 


House. 



Jo. 


Names. 


i-> Son, S 

$ Son, S K, BA (Hons) 

- Son, Saehindra Kumar, MA 
;S Son, Sailendra Kumar, ma 
S on, Sailendra Kumar, msc 
■ ji Son, Sakti Saukar, ACA 

1 Sou, Santiranjan, ma 

» Sen, Saroj Kumar, ma 
» j Son, Subhas Oil, B Com 
4 Son, Subodh Ran j an, BEE 
Son, Sunil Chandra, msc 
i; Son, Sunil Kumar, MSc 
•7 Son, Susliil Chandra 
,S Son, Sushil Kumar, ma 
;<> Sen, Tapan, MS<; 

,,1 Son, Tarak Nath , ma 
s \ Son Choudhuri, Laksmi Kant, 
MA. 

;■> Son Chaudhuri, Paresli Kishore, 

MSI 1 

ill Son Cupta, Asliim Kumar 

4 Son Cupta, Ashutosh 

5 Soil Cupta, Bijoy Bhusan BA 

id Scugupta, Bijan Kumar 

Son Cupta, Bimalondu BCom BL 

.s Son Cupta, Dob Kumar, MA 
Hi Son Cupta, Itirendra Jyot i 
m Son Cupta, H N, B 1 S 0 (TEon) 

*1 Sen Gupta, K P, MA, MOom 

2 Sen Cupta, lviron (Hi 

i;i Nemrupta, Nirmal Kumar 
14 Somnqita, Pabitra K, i*mk 

b Son Cupta, Pinaki, B Com, ACA 
•l'» N 11 Cupta, Phani Bhusan, ACA 


Son, lYadip Kumar, BE 
ls Son Cupta, Prithri Ranjan 
'I' N 11 < hi])ta, Promothannth, msc 

10 Son ( ! up ts , Rabindra Nath, msc 

'1 Son Cupta, Rajondra Bal, msc, 
mi 1 > 

Syn Gupta, Rainanath, 11 L 
Ncngupta, Ran jit, msc 
14 Son Cupta, 8 

b SoiiLHipta, San joy Kumar, t»fh . . 

^ Son < mj>ta, Sanjoy Ranjan 
^ Son Cupta, Santosb Kumar, BA 
Son dnpta, Saroj Kumar, BSc 
(!> ^V'g), Elect. Mooli (RHU) 

■ Son Cupta, Saroj Kumar, MA 
k f ' n Cupta, Katya Prasad, MA 

1 Sisir Kumar, MA, ACA 


SeiiKijpt-a, Sudliir K, ma 
‘ ( ‘ u Cu]>ta, Sudhir Ranjan 
s, ‘ r ' Cupta, T 

s,,n H.-'.v. Amit, BCom, ACA 
^’ n ] ; r ‘.v, Hihyendra, BSc 
‘ 11 Surma, Priyadarsan, msc 
Subhas 

A joy (Hiand 

f''.i'K:'£c N * th ' BA 

- .v!;'r! mn Krishna, MA 

\ S| ' C A P^ LLIi ' DPA 

i CL v> . BCom * LLB 

I fcu. L ttarlra «l, BCOM, LLB 

Mft gl>ul Ahmed, MA 

BSc .. 


41 

Style or oalling. 


Residence or plaoe of 
business. 


Asstt, Bird & Heilgors 

Dy Chief Controller of Imports & Exports 
Asstt, Dunlop Rubber Co (India) Ltd . . 

Asstt Professor, Presidency College 
Asstt Prof, Maul ana Azad College 
Accit, Bird & Co, Ltd 
Professor, City College 
Professor, City College (Com Dept) 

Supdt (Offg), R B of India 
Elect rieul Inspr, Directorate of Electricity, W Bengal 
Asstt Professor, Presidency College 
l.«oet, PresideneV College 

Vice-Principal, Government College of Art <Sr Craft 
Lecturer, City College 
Prof, City College (Evening) 

Professor, Presidenc y College 
Asstt , Share Dept Martin Burn Ltd 


Chartered Bank Bldgs 

4 Esplanade East . 

57 B E fee School Street. 
86/1, College Street 
8 , Wellosiy Street 
Chartered Bank Buildings 
102 / 1 , Amherst Street 
102/1 Amherst Street 

5 Council House Street 
1 Ilarish Mukerjeee Rd 

86 / 1 , College Street. 

S(> ' I ( Yllrge Street . 

2 N Chow riughee Road 
102 / 1 , Amherst Street 
It >2/ 1 Amherst Ktr<»ot. 
86/1, College Street 
12 Mission Row. 


Asstt Prof, Presidency College 


8 ( 1/ 1 College Street 


Asstt, James Finlays & Co Ltd 
Prof ,0ity College 

West Bengal Provincial Co-operative Bank Ltd 

Asst, Share Dept, Martin Burn 
Asstt. Share Dept Martin Burn Ltd 
Lect . St Pauls Cathedral Mission College 
Asst!, Mather & Platt Ltd 
Engr, The English Electric Co Ltd 
Prof St Xavier’s College 

Administration, Guest. Keen Williams Ltd 
Prof, City College (Com. Depart) 

Inspector of Factories 
Asstt, Bird & Co (Pte) Ltd 

Director oT Administration, Dunlop Rubber Co 
(India.) Ltd. 

Engr, Babcock & Wilcox of (India) Ltd 

Asstt, Burn & Co. Ltd 
Professor, Bangabasi College 

Lecturer, Surondra Nath College 
Professor, Presidency College 


2 Netaji Sublias Road. 
102 I Amherst Street. 

1 6 ( )ld ( Yurt House 
Street . 

12 Mission Row 
1 2 Mission Row. 

22/ I Amherst SI reel . 

7 Jlare Street 

I )-2 Gillander House. 

20 Park St rreet. 

II (Hiowringhee Road. 
12 Surya Sen St 

I Hastings St 

Chartered Bank Bldgs 
57 B Free School SI reel.. 

1 & 2 Bra bourne Road. 
12 Mission Bow. 

25, Scot t La no 
24, Harrison Road 
8 b- 1 , ( Jollege Street 


Officer, United Bank of India, Ltd 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 

Asstt, Macnoill & Barry Ltd 
Asstt, Mains Engr, 0ES0 Ltd 

Asstt Aoott, C E S C Ltd .. 
Officer, Oxford University Press 
Engineer, Indian Cable Co, Ltd 


67 A, Netaji Subhas Roar! 
20 , Kankar Ghose Lane 
2 Fairlie IMaer. 

Victoria House, Chow- 
ringhee K<| 

Victoria House. 

Mereant ile Buildings. 

0 Hare Street 


Prof, City College (Evening) 

Prof Vidyasagar College 

Asstt Aectt, India Genl Navigation and Railway Co, 
Ltd 

Prof, City College 
Aectt, Rainier Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Asstt., Jardine Henderson Ltd 

Asstt, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 
Sub- Aectt, The Chartered Bank 
Prof, Bangabasi College 

Saleroom Asstt, Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 
Asstt, Accounting Ins Deptt, Imperial Tobacoo Co 
of India Ltd. 

Sub-Aeett, State Bank (Park St Br) 

Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Prof, St Paul’s Cathedral Mission College 
Officer, Karam Oh and Thapar & Bros, Pte Ltd 
Asstt, tjewanlal (1929) Ltd 
Asstt, Davenport & Co Private Ltd 
Lect, Moulana Azad College 
Asstt Magr, Scindia Steam Navigation Co Ltd 


102 1 Amherst Street . 
29 Kankar Chose Lane. 
4 Fairly place 

102/1 Amherst Street 
21 Netaji Subhas Rd. 

4 ( Hive Bow. 

B-4 Gillander House. 

4 Netaji Subhas Road. 
25 Scott Lane 

2 Metcalfe SI reet . 

37 (Hiowringhee. 

Queen’s Mansion. 

6 Church Lane 

22 /I Amherst SI reel . 

25 lira bourne R'*ad 
31 Netaji Subh as Road 

5 & 7 Nofaji Subhas Rd 
8 Wellesley Street. 

33 Netaji Subhas liosd* 



42 


No« Names, 


Style or calling. 


2428 Shah, Rajendra Santilal 

2429 Khahani, Naraindas Chandiram 

2430 Sharma, Anand Mohan 

2431 Sharma, Balak Ram 

2432 Sharma, H V 

2433 Sharma, f L), JiA 

24114 Sharma, Kali Charan, BSc 

2435 Sharma, Preinswarup 

2430 Sharma, P N, BA Com, LLB,ACA 

2437 Sharma, Sada Nand, BA 

2438 Sharma, Sashi Nekhar, B Com . . 

2439 Sharma, Shantilall 

2440 Sharman, DA, AC, J)S 
2140a Shaw-Hamilton, C V 

24 H Shearer, William Wallace, M I 
(Structural) E 

2442 Slienoy, HD 

2443 SUcrarton, E 

2444 Shcttv, Marakada Jinraj, HEME 

(Pll), AM IE 

2445 Shorn**, V K, MA, BL ( f A 1 1 B 
2440 tthrivasluib, Shil* Kara van 


Asstt Baimer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Indian Asst Acctt, Mercantile Bank Ltd 
Labour Advisor, Imperial Tobacco Co of 
India, Ltd 

Asstt, Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Acctt, Lipton Ltd 
Acini Officer, Tea Board 

Chemist , The Patterson Engineering Co (India) Pte 
Ltd. 

Eiurr, Associated Electrical Industries (Ind) Pte 
Ltd. 

Asstt Aeott, English Electric Co, Ltd 
Asstt-, Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Sr Ollicer, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 
Mange, Factory Supplies, Imperial Tobacco Co of 
India Ltcl 

Asstt Aeott, Brooke* Bond India Pte Ltd 
Mangr, Steel Bros & Co, Ltd 
Genl Mangr, A & J Main & Co, Ltd 

P C Trainee, Assoc iated Electrical Industries (Ind) 
Pte Ltd. 

Asstt, Jardtne Henderson Ltcl 

Sr Engr, Paterson Engineering Co (India) Pte Ltd . . 

Asstt Acc tt, Central Bank of (Ind) Ltd 

Chief Trullie (Klicer, Calcutta Tramways Co Ltd . , 


2447 ShrolV, Dorab S 
244s Slmkhi, Jjoknat li 

2449 Sidhanta, N K 

2450 Simpson, .IB 

2151 Sidclicpji, Kakruddin, MA 

2452 Sidney, Charles Farmer 

2453 Simms, Philip Charles 

2154 Sil. Jaganath 

2455 Singh, Balram . . 

2450 Singh, llarjit 

2157 Singh, < ‘hand Kumar 

2155 Singh, Amrik 


2459 Singh, (I, MA, BT .. 

2400 Singh, Kunwar Anand, booiu 
(L ondon) 

241)1 Singh, K K, BSc* 

2402 Singh, Hamawatar, mA 

2403 Singh, Rama Shankar, B< -om 

2404 Si nh a, Amitnva, MA 

2405 Sinha, Anil K, BA . . 

2400 Sinha, Biplab Kumar, BSc*, MCom 
2407 Sinha. R N BSc 
240S Sinha, R S 

2409 Singh, Sardar Avtar, BA, LLB . . 

2470 Sinha, C C 

2471 Sinha, H S 

2472 Singh, Prodip, MA 

2473 Sinha, Ranvir 

2474 Sinha, Shashi Kumar 

2475 Singh, Ram Vyas, MA . . 

2470 Singh, Rain Narayan, MA, LLB 

2477 Sinha, Satyabrata, MSc* 

2478 Sinha, Shivaprasad, ma 

2479 Sinha, T D, BA, BL 

2480 Sinha, Nirmnl Kant i, m a 

2481 Sinha Ray, Arun Kumar 

2482 Sinha Ray, Rani Krishna 

2483 Sinha Roy, SIv 

2484 Sinha Ray, Sisir K 

2485 Sifcaram, H K, bsc, be 

2486 Sitaram, K R 

2487 Skinner, E W 

2488 Smith, A A 
2469 Smith, A V 

.2490 Smith* David Duncan 


Asstt, Macneill cV. Barry Ltd 
Sr Asstt , Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Asstt., Turner Morrison & Co, Pte, Ltd 
Acet, National & Grnullnys Bank Ltd 
Leet, Moulana A/.ad College 
Asstt, Oetoarius Stt*c*l Co Ltd 
Asstt Baimc*r Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Janies Warren & Co Ltd 

Cldci Personnel Ollieer, Baimc*r Lawrie* A Co Ltd 
Asstt Personnel Ollieer, Baimer Law rie & Co Ltd 
Asstt Personnel Oilicer , Bilinier Law rie <V Co Ltcl 
Ji Engr, Associated Eletneal Lndnst ric*s (Ind) Pic* 
Ltd. 

Prof, St. Xavier's College 
Auditor, Lovelock and Lewes 

Op Asstt, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Professor, City College (Com Dept,) 

Asstt A **et t . Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Leet in English. St Paul's College 
Asstt, Agencies Dept Martin Buru Ltd 
Asst t , Dunlop Rubber Co. (India) Pte Ltd 
Dist. Sales Manager, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Asstt, Turner Morrison & Co, 1 * 11 *, Ltd 
Officer, Kara in < ‘hand r rhapc*r & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Op Supdt, E lily 
Truck Supply Officer, E lily 
Loct»,St Paulis (Cathedral Mission College 
Asstt Personnel Officer, Baimer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Asst t Personnel Officer, Baimer Law rie* & Co Ltd 
Prof, Bangnbasi College 
Prof, City College (Evening) 

Prof, City College (Evening) 

Prof, City College (Com) 

Secy, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 
Asst t, Prof, Presidency College 
West Bengal Provincial Co-operative Bank Ltd 
Asstt, Agencies Dept Martin Brun Ltd 
Asstt Engr, E lily 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Asstt, Mains Engineer, C E S C, Ltd 
Administrator, Guest Keen Williams Ltd 
Asstt, James Warren & Co Ltd 
Supd Eng, Barklinq (India) Pvt Ltd 
Acctt John Thompson (I) Pte Ltd 
Secy, Hoare Miller & Co, Ltd 


Residence or pla<* 0 
business. 


21 Netaji Subha* p v( j 

8 Netaji Sublets 

37 Chowringhco R 0 ^ 

14 India Ex< 

‘hang- pi 

9 Weston Street 
14 Brabourne lb»L<l 
27 Theatre Road 

13 Rajendra Natl, 
Mukherjec Ibi.id 

D-3 Gilland(*r H«>u st 

14 India Exchan^ p 
23 B Netaji Sublets [{< 
37 Chowringhee 

2 Metcalfe Stn ct . 
Gillander House 
16 Netaji Suhhus It 

13 Rajendra Nath 
Mukherjec Bo, id 
4 (dive Row 
21 Theatre Load 


33 Netaji Subha.' It 
P-4 Mission l!< >\\ 
Extension 
2 Ea irlie Pla< e 
14 India Exeiungt l 1 
0 Lyons Rangt 
0 Church Lam* 

S Wrllesle> St i (el 
14 Old ( 'our 1 1 1 < ms ! 
2 1 Net aji Subli i * l;.l 
31 (diow i mglu • Jv . < 
21 Netaji Suhba, 1 *d 
21 Netaji Subh.e I bl 
21 Net a j i Suhlias K»l 
13 B.ijendra X.» ! L 
Mukhei’iee I held 

30 Park St m t 
4 Lyons Range 


0 Cbui‘*'li L.in* 

13 Mirzapui Stunt 

14 India Evkur* I 
33/ L Ainlier-t Sired 

1 2 M l.ssioli I b»u . 

57 B Fin S' h”"i Mi 
6 Church 1 jimt* 

6 Lyons Range 
25 Bra bouriu lb**id 
E lily lloust 
E Rl\ Rons* 

33/1 Amherst Stm’t 
21 Netaj. Su I 'lias 
21 Netaji Subli.n- 


25/] Sc-ott km* 
102/1 Amliei J Stnf 
102/1 Amherst 
13 Mir/-iip ,lr f ' <rC ' el 
31 Chow''' 11 "- 1 ''' 1 ' 
H6/1 Ooll' L't- St 
16 ()l<i Cmnt 
12 Mis.'i" 11 


B Kly H'.u*-- 

4 Clive R"' v 


4 Fairl* 1 ' 

6 Fairlie P laC ® 



SO. 


Names. 


43 


Style or calling. 


()1 Smith James, Binny 
smith James, Gellatly 
Smith, Mark Henry 

,,4 Smith Gilbert 
Smith, John 
Smith, Malcolm 

t»7 Smith, V R 
;, s Smith, W Me Dougali 
Smith, Stanley Mackay 
1,0 Smith, W 
oi Sinvthe, LP 
nl > Snalgrovc, J It 

Sodhi.DS 

,,4 Solial. Niranjan Kumar, A1TB 

ii;, Salomon, F T, ACA . . 

n,i Sojidlu, h L, BA, LLB 

o 7 S|»(‘irs, CM 

ns Haskins, A M . . 

n<i Solomon, I) 

In Snnivasan, G 
II Srmivasan, 1, BCom, LLB 
L' Srinivasan, IC V Iyer, nio ami 
l:; Snnivasan, M K, MA 

11 Sriuivasan, Ragavachary, Hi<: 

(Hons), Grad IEE 
i:» Sriuivasan, R 
hi Snnivasan, V, MSc 
IT Sn\ ast hava, B 1* 
is Smastava, K (), BSc 
1 !* Sm\ jifcitava, Mrttunjo> Prosad 
ja Stark William Johnstone 
:'! St aiiliton, W r 

12 Si ran. O C 

-•> Stephen, 1) G 
-I Stcnhcn, W J 
-•* St cvcnsoii, Thomas Genre 
St<*\ ciis, R T 
Strong Henry Patrick 


Asstt, Thomas Duff & Co (Ind) Pte Ltd 
Chartered Acett, Thomas Duff & Co (Ind) Pte Ltd 
Asstt Acett, National & Grindlays Bank Ltd 
(Lloyds Branch). 

Asstt, Bird & Heilgers 

Sub- Acct t. The Chartered Bank 

Acting Manager, Tea tstates Dept, James Warren 
& Co. Ltd. 

Asstt, Turner Morrison & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Maekneil & Barry 
Mg Director, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Sr Asstt, Allahabad Bank Ltd 
Planning Mangr, Lipton Ltd 

Asstt Murine Supdt, British India Steam Navnga- 
tion ( -o Ltd. 

Asstt, Nha Wallace & Co. Ltd 
Indian Asstt Acett, Mareentile Bank Ltd 
Manager, Taxation, Dunlop Rubber Co (India) Ltd 
Oflicer, Kanun (hand Tliapar & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Sales, Imperial Tobaeeo Co India Ltd 
Asstt South British Insurance Co Ltd . . 

Asstt Controller olSureh, E Rly 
Asstt, Shalimar Paint (Colour & Varnish Co Ltd 
Purchase Deptt, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 
Structural Engr, A & J Main & Co Ltd 
Jr Officer, Life Insurance Corpu, 11 indust han Co-op 
Ins Society ( Unit ). 

Asstt, Mains Engr, C ESC Ltd 

J)y Ch Accts Officer, E Rly 
Let t in Cheni, St Paul's College 
Asstt , Jardme Henderson Ltd 
Asstt, Price Waterhouse Peat & Go 
Asstt, Allalmhad Bank Ltd 
Product ion Mangr, Lipton Ltd 
Asstt Acett, Imperial Tobacco Co India Ltd 
Asstt, Tractors & Encrr Dept, Janu s Warren & Co 
Ltd. 

Asstt, Kilburn & Co. Ltd 
Jr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Go Ltd 
Asstt, Sha Wallace & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Rallis (India) Ltd 

Asstt, GenI Admit, lndo Burma Petroleum Co Ltd . . 


- s Sul, |,a Rao Kesiraju, ASAA, ACA 
■!' Sulim, M G H 


Asstt Acett, Brook Bond (India) Pte Ltd 
Asstt, B B & J Gonstruet.ion Go Ltd 


Siiliramanian, D, BSc 
II Suhramnriiam, A R G 

Suhnunanian, N P, BA, ACA 
1,5 Suhnunanian, PS 
1* Siihraiuaniuni, Ramic‘r 
iSuhraruanian, Ramaiyer 

1 ' Sl iluil, Benodo Sankar 
h Nukumaran, P P 
^undaresan, N 

Sundaram, B Kalyana, ma, llb, 
s, ‘U't.mkar, A H 
, , ^ U| '«li»ra«an, R, MA, CAIIB 
- Sir. Sibaprosad, MSc 
' Sitriidhar, Madan Gopal, MSc . . 
hwami, K R N, BA . . 

' U s ««my, R N 
^ ^ U,u, ie, Derek 

k ^ W:lT 1 ‘inatbari, T R, Bcoxn, aca . . 
»«'w,JAK 

• 'V«m Nilotpal, MSc, LLB 

‘ s y»w, w c 


Demonstrator. St Xavier’s College 
Acett, Lipton Ltd 

Ch Acett Secy, Orient Longmans Pte Ltd 
Sr. Assistant Accountant, Port Commissioners 
Coach, East Office, Jessop & Go Ltd 
Engr, Associated Electrical industries (Ind) Pte 
Ltd. 

Asstt, Baliner Laurie & Co Ltd 

Sales Director, Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 
Asstt Secy, to G M, E Rly 

Asstt Secretary, Indian Chamber of Commerce 
Asstt, Supdt. Bengal Chamber of Commerce 
Prob Asstt, R B of Tndia 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Asstt, Bird & Co (Pte) Ltd 
Asstt, Iron & Steel Control 
Asstt, .Tames Warren & Co Ltd 
Asstt, James Warren & Co Ltd 

Asstt, Accounts Dept, Indian Aluminium Co, Ltd . . 
Staff Asstt, State Bank of India 
Prof, Vidyasagar College 
Asst, Macneill & Barry Ltd 


I 41 fait Teremy Williams 

fee, 

kft Eric 

* s ukdar * Hitesh Chandra 

ral »-ar, R K, MA 


. . Asstt Officer, Hongkong & Shanghai Banking 
Corporation. 

. . Sales Manager, Brooke Bond India Pte Ltd 

. , Asstt, Baimcr Lawrie & Co Ltd 

♦ . Supdt, State Bank of India • ' 


Residenc or place of 
business 

3 Clive Row. 

3 Clive Row. 

29 Netaji Suhhas Road. 

Chart-end Bank Bldgs 

4 Netaji Suhhas Hoad. 

31 Chuwriughcc Road. 

f> Lyons Range 

2 Fairlie Place 

4 Bank sha 11 Street- 
14 India Exchange Place 

9 Weston Street 
Hi Strand Road. 

4 Bankshall Slieet. 

5 Netaji Suhhas Road. 

57 B Free School Street . 
25 Bra bourne Road. 

37 Chow ringliee. 

10 Netaji Suhhas Road. 
E Rly House. 

(> Lyons Range. 

3 1 < ’how ringliee Road. 
Hi Netaji Suhhas Road 

4 Chit taranjau Avenue*. 

Victoria House, Chow - 
ringliee S<| 

E Rly House 
33/1 Amherst Street. 

4 Clive Row. 

B- 1 (inlander I louse, 
it Indi a Exchange Place 
0 Weston Street, 

37 ChowTinghee. 

31 Cliou nglire Road 

2 Fairlie Place. 

4 Fairlie Place. 

4 Bankshall Street. 

1 0 I hire Street. 

Gillandcr House, Netaji 
Suhhas Road 
2 Metcalfe Street 
P-13 Mission Row 
Extent sion. 

30 Park Street. 

0 Weston St reel . 

17 Chittaranjan Avenue 
15, Strand Road 

03 Netaji Suhhas Road. 

1 3 Rajendra Nath 
Mukherjeo Road. 

21 Netaji Suhhas Road. 

2 Metcalfe Street . 

E R,y House. 

23B, Netaji Suhhas Road 
0 Netaji Suhhas Road. 

5 Council House St reet 
39 Sankar Chose Lane 
Chartered Bank Bldgs 
33 Netaji Suhhas Road 

31 Chow ringliee Road. 

31 < 'how ringlce Road. 

31 ChowTinghee Road 

3 Strand Road. 

39 Shankar Ghost* Lane 
2 Fairlie Place 


31 Dalhousee Sijuare. 

2 Medtcalfc Street. 

21 Nataji KubJia« Road# 
3 Strand Road 



44 


No. 


2559 
2557 
255 s 
25.79 

2590 

2591 
259 1 
2595 

2594 

2595 
2599 
2597 

259S 

2599 

2570 

2571 

2572 

2575 

2574 

2575 
2579 


257S 

2579 
25S< > 


25 S I 


25S2 

25S5 

25K4 


25S5 

25S9 

25S7 

25SS 

25S9 

2590 

2591 

2592 
2595 

2594 

2595 
2599 
2597 
259S 
2599 

2900 

2001 


2902 

2905 

2604 

2605 

2606 
2607 


Name. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or pj^ 

business. 


Taragi, J 8 

Taraporvala, Minoo Cooverji 
Taylor, A J 
Tailor, Donald James 
Kellis, DA 

Towari, Anil Karan, ma 
Tiaouri, B P B 
Thakur, A S, MA (E Con) 
'Thomas, Abraham, MSc 
Thomas, Kenneth James 
Thomas, Matthew 
'Thomas, Veembu Kallu Abraham 
Thomas, X R, BA,BCom, CA 

'Thompson, Arlhor James 
Thompson, J AW.. 

'Thornton, Anthony VVi 1 1 i.i.n i 

Tims, AI]>an Joseph 

Thorpe, Leonard lioraeo, use 
(lhin jab) 

Tiru vadainaruthur, K V, BA 
( 1 1 oils) 

Ti u ari, B, BA . . 

Tocher, J \V 

'Tod, AW 

'Tow nshend, l> \V ; 

Tripat hi, AinaloBh, ma, l.lh, am, 

Tucker, ( J D 

Turner, William Sclwyn 


Asstt, James Warren & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Macneill & Barry Ltd 
Asstt, James Warren &. Do Ltd 
Sanitary Engr, Maekinosli Buru Ltd 
Office Asstt, Registration, lui])erial Tobacco Co In- 
dia Ltd. 

Prof, Nu rend ranath College 
Hd Asstt, State 1 Bank of India 
Officer, Karam Cliand Thappar <fe Bros Pte Ltd 
Prof, St Xavit'r’s College* 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace Co Ltd 
Asstt, Balmer La writ* & Co Ltd 
Aeott, Balmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Asstt Acctt, A & J Main & Co Ltd 


Officer on Special Duty, Jessop & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Macne.il I A: Barry Ltd 
Asstt Acctt, National & Grind lays Bank Ltd 
(Llo\ ds Branch). 

Asstt, Share Dept, Indo-Burmah Petroleum Co Ltd 

Asstt to Manager, Associated Electrical Industries 
(India), Ltd 

Asst t , Aectts Dept, India Genl Navigation & Ely 
( •< > Ltd . 

Asstt, Iron & Steel (-out roller 
Asstt, Jardinc Henderson Ltd 
Sub-Acct t, The- Chartered Bank 
Asstt, J 'Thomas <V r Co Pl<* Ltd 
Asstt Professor, Presidt5»oy College 


31 Chowrincrheo R oa 

2, Fairlio Place 
31 Chowringlav K oa 
8 Netaji Sub has ]» Ma , 
37 Chowring hee 

24 Harrison ThJ 
3 Strand Road 
25 Brabourne 
30 Park Str(*et. 

4, Badkshall Street 
21 Netaji Subhas }{ 
21 Netaji Sublias ]{, 
16 Netaji Subhas J; 0 
Cal-1 

63 Netaji Subhas Ik 
2 Fairlio Place 
29 Netaji Subhas Rut 


Oillamler Houx . 

6, Mission Row 

4 Fairlie Place 

33 Netaji Nuhlm* Ik 
4 Clive Row. 

4 Netaji Subhas lin.u 
tS Mission Row . 

86-1, College Street 


Asstt, Kilhurn Co Ltd 
Asstt-, Macneill & Barry Ltd 


2 Fairlie Place 
2 Fairlio Plan . 


U 


Cdeshi Vijay Singh Champashi, 
B (loin, LLB 
Unhala, Pestonji 

l T ndcr\\ ood, C 
Cnni Navar, M K, 


Asstt, Seindia Steam Nav Co, Ltd 

In-charge oi C A Dept, 1 1 mdusthan Lever Ltd 
Asstt, Shalimar Paint Colour & Varnish Co Ltd 
Sr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall tV Co Ltd 


53 Netaji Suhlus K". 

1 & 3 Bruhoume le>. 
ti Loyos Range 
4 Fairlie Plat i 


V 


Vakil, KM 
Yaishnav, At 1 , BCom 
Vallint, LD 
Vargh(*s(*, \ r V 
Varma, BN 

Varma . Jagadish Chandra 
Varma, M K D 
Varma, V it, ua, nnB 
Varma, Rabinder 

Varsbneya, Jagdish Shoran, MCom, 
lam 

Vasud(*va, Nandlal 
Vemban, V S, MSe 
Witch, C 
Vembu, NS 

Venkata Kxishnan, NS, MA, LLB, 

bf,cwa 

Venkataraman, A, BSc (Eng) 
Venkataraman, Nataranjan, MA, 
BL 

Venkat-aramanan, S S 
Venkat.cs warian, Nilkantan 
Venkit, M N 
Venu, Gouravaram . . 

Vcnugopal, S, BL 
Vorgb cse, Thomas 


Sr Aectts Officer (Vo), E Ely 
Asstt, Bank of Barts la Ltd 
Asstt, 'Turner Morris* n & (Pte) Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Macneill & Barry Ltd 
Asstt, Jardino Henderson, Ltd 
Asstt, Balmer Lawrie t\r Co Ltd 
Asstt, J Thomas A Co Pit* Ltd 
Officer, Karam Cliand Thu par & Bros 
Sr Asstt, Gladstone Lyall cV Co, Ltd 
Staff Assistant, State Bank of India 

Gr. Asstt, Gladstone Lyall & Co Ltd 
Prof St, Xavier's College 
Asstt Supdt, Bengal Chamber of Commerce 
A P O, E Ely 

Asstt, Jardino Hendorson , Ltd 

Engr, English Electric Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Bird & Co (Pte) Ltd 

Dist Controller of Stores, E Rly 
Asstt, Bird & Heilgers 
Asstt, James Finlay & Co Ltd 
Accountant, Mackintosh Bum, Ltd 
Asstt, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 
Construction Engineer, CESC Ltd 


E Rly Hons-. 

India Exchange < ‘ileu 
6 Lyons I beige 
2 Fairlie Place 
4, Clivo Row 
21 Nelaji Subli.is Ho* 
8 Mission lbwv. 

25, Brabourne. Kii 
4 Fairlie Place 
3, Strand Read 


. . 4 Fairlie Place. 

.. 30 Park Street. 

. . 6 Netaji Sublias KuH 

. . E Kly House. 

. . 4, Clive Row 

.. D-3, Gillftiider House 

. . Chartered Bunk BMP- 


E Kly House. 
Chartered Bank 

2 Netaji Sublias 
8, Netaji Subhas B"*" 
31 Chowrinyhee B 
Victoria Ib-us**- 
rjnghee 



45 


Names. 

Wrtaunes, G WS 
Ye*oivala, D N, MA .. 

Yibart, George Meredith 
\Klyarthi, Ram Dularay, 
jtVoM, PHD, (Boon) 

\ ,ji Vaduvur S unda ram, BSe, 

Yisvvanatb, Nateson 
Yi.nw jiuathaii, N, MA 
Yjsw.inathan, P, BSe, BCom 
y^w. mat ban, 'l 1 
\ h»^to, Michael 
Vohra, Madal Lall 


Style or calling. Residence or plaoe of 

business. 

Mangr, T & D Dept, James Warren & Co Ltd . . 31 Chowringhoe Road. 

Indian Officer, Hongkong & Shanghai Ranking Corpn 31 Ralhousic Square. 


Genl Mangr Heat ley & Grasham Lid 
MA, Asstt Secretary, Indian Chamber of C«onunere< 

FCA Secy, Williamson Magor A; Co, Ltd 
. . Mains Engr, C E S C, Ltd 
Prof, St Xavier's College 
.. A A <\ D A G, P & T (Mice 

Asstt, T A T I) Dept James Warren & Co Ltd 

Mangr, Radix India Ltd 

Progress O/licer, Jessup & Co, Ltd 


W 

Wadsiav, Ml 
\\ ada, ( i S 

Wade, G TVl, MA, CAITR 
WWhi. HD 
Walker, R. S. 

Wallace, Dona U I Bruce* 

Wallace, J. M. 

Walton, J M 

Wabh, EJ 

1 )a\ id. Prank 
W a Non, 1 loiiald Ross 
Wat son, JP 

Whit chouse, Henry Prederiek 

Whitman, John 

Whitworth, Robert John Eve 

Wu-lviix, J 

Wit o,o, it \y 

W iUon, F S 
WiUu, X J M 
Will c J X 

W-liiain, Henry Gardiner Raird 

Williamson, Patrick Hay 

W ii,on I ( J 

W illis, Krie Gordon 

W'unoj -( luiulell. M C 

\\ nit or Jose] ill Robson 

W oixl, x p 

Wo.kP. \V(j 

Wo- dvsard, R S 
Woullam. W G 
'Wlit.EJ 

r, M J 
%l<h- l>p 
Wynd, Phillip 


Asst t , Place, Siddons A' Coin'll (Pte*) Lid 
Asstt Aeett. j illpel ini Tnhaecn Co Ltd 
Asstt Aeett, R R ot India .. 

Asstt, Maeneill A r Harry Ltd 
Asstt,, Bird & Hedgers 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace A Co, Ltd 
Director, J Thomas & Co Ptr Ltd 
Asst I Stores Manager, Brooke Rond India Pte* Ltd 
Asstt, Turner Marrison A- Co Ltd 
Director, Brooke Rond India Pte Ltd 
Mg Director, Sinclair, Murray & Co Pte Ltd 
Merkettmg Controller, Liplon (Ind) Ltel 
Director, Gladstone Lyall &. Co, Ltd 

Sr, Asst , Gladstone Lyall A: Co, Ltd 
Mangr, Harrisons & Crosficld Ltd 
Administrative, Guest Keen Williams Ltd 
Asstt, Minerals Dept , Bird A: Co Pte Ltd 

Engr, International Combustion (India) Pte Ltd 
Asstt, .1 Thomas A’ C \ > Pte Ltel . . 

Asstt, Maemell & Barry Ltd 

Managing Director, Octavius Steal A* Co Ltel 

Mg Director, vvilliamson Magor «Y Co Lid 

Sub-Aeett, r n»e Chartered Rank 

Director, Imperial Tobacco ( to of India Ltd 

Asstt, Jardine lfend<TSon Ltd 

Asstt. Rainier La writ* & Ce> Ltd 

Asstt, Mnekiicill &, Harry 

Rr Ae*e*t t, Jm]>erial Toliaeeo ( \> Ltd . . 

Aetg Clnel Manager s Asstt., Lloyds Rank Ltd 
Asstt, Jardine. Henderson Ltd 
Asstt, Norwich Union Fire Insurance Society Ltd 

Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 
Asstt Op Supdt, Eastern Railway 
Asstt, Bird & I ledgers 


31 Chittaranjau Avenue 
23R Netaji Sublias Road 

4 Mangoe Lane 
Victoria House 

30 Park Street. 

7 Koilaghat Street. 

31 Chowriiighec Road, 
lb Hare Street. 

b3, Netaji Sublias Road 


b Joyous Range*. 

37 ( Jiowringhee. 

S ( 'mined House St reel 
3 Fairlie Place*. 

Chartered Bank Building 
•1 Bankshall St 
S Mission Row 
1 1 Metcnlle* St i ect. 
b Lyons Range*. 

3 Metcalfe Ntree*t 
14 India Hxchaiigc Plane* 
0 Weston Street. 

4, Fairlie Plae*e 

4, Fairlie Place 
b ( Unircli Lane? 

41 Client ringlicc 

( Mini t i*i*4 *ei Rank Build- 
ings. 

10! Park Street 
s Mission Row. 

3 Fairlie* Place*. 

14 Old Court Houhc St. 

4 Mangoe* Dine*. 

4 \e*taji Sublias Roael. 
37 Chowringhe*e, 

4 Ch\ e Row 

31 Netaji Sublias Road 

3 Fairlie* Place 
37 ( M»o wrmghe*e*. 

30 Ne*taji Sublias Roael 

4 ( Mi ve Row . 

JO Gillandrrs House*, 8 
Neta j i Sublias Roael 
4 ('live* Row 
Eastern Railway House 
Charterer! Bank Buildings 


v il<llV: <. Hamhit. liCom 
'■‘JiiiU. A. S., MOom 
ynli.nr, Tom, 
aiui^ Hug^ Richardson 
j A D 
’ (>u ng, s R 


Asstt, Allaliabael Rank Ltd 

Accounts Asstt, Thomas Dud & Go (India) Pte? Ltd 
Asstt Kngi. B R A'. J ( 'oust ruction A Co Ltd 
Secy, Allreel Herbert (India) Private* Ltel 
Asstt, M'limer Manison A Ce> Ltel 
Mercantile* Asstt, Mae ki/on Markrnine A Co 


14 I tif 1 in Exchange Place 
3 Clive? Row 

P-13 Mission Row Ex In. 

1 3 3 St.ra nei Road 
b L \ oils Range 
I b St rand Road. 


Zaidj 


7?.V* kaijid Kishoar Hussain 

^ k *n a , g R 


Asstt, Balmer Lawrie & Co Ltd 
Asstt, Jardine Henderson Ltd 


21 Netaji Subhas Road . 
. 4 Clive Row. 

S. c. BANERJEE, 

Clark of the £*•*» 



40 


Common Jury List 


List of persons liable to service on Common Juries in the High Court at Calcutta 
for the year ensuing from 1st May 1962 pursuant to Act V of 1898. 


Remark, —Persons <,l.umin ff exemptions should communicate their claims and grounds tlierof to the clerk St, 
soon as possible after service of the summons, and persons summoned and unable to attend for any cause should 
* so that if sufficient cause is shown, the Sheriff may be directed to summon other jurymen. 


such CiWUSC 


No. Names. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or j>]ace 
businowH. 


I 


o 


3 


4 
* » 

<> 

7 

5 

9 
10 
1 1 


I 2 


13 


14 

15 
10 
17 


IS 

10 

20 


21 


23 

24 

25 
20 
27 
2S 


29 

30 

31 

32 

33 


A 


Abraham, K E, MA 
Aeharya, Kalipada, MA, BT 
Acharji, Manindra Lai, BA 
Adah, Jatindrn Nath, MCJom, HI, 
Adhikary, Ammcsli (Mi. BSC 
Adhikary, Bihhuti Bhusan, MA .. 
Adhikarv, Haradhan, lu'om 
Adhikari, Manindra- Chandra, bsc 

Adhikary, Matilal, ma 
Adhikary, Nitya G«»pal, BA 
Adhikary, Saktiprasad, ma 
Adhikari, Sudhir Ranjan, ma, tit 


IT I) C, D A G, P & T 

Asstt Master, Scot t ish Church Collegiate School 

U 1) c, D A G, P & T 

Clerk, Tata Iron & Stool Co, Ltd. 

U 1) C, 1) A G, P & T 

J )it to 

Asstt, Land and Kind Revenue Department 

Auditor, A-G's Office, West Bengal 

Asstt, 1 T ollice, W. Bengal 

Clerk R, C E S C Lid 

Auditor, A-G, WB 

Asstt Master, Hindu School 


Agarwal, Surajprokash, PA 
Ahcined, Tuflail, BA 
Aiyah, V, BS( 1 
Akhtar, Jamil. M A 
Ali. Md H ossa in, BA 


Acott A-G, Bengal 

InsjRictor, Collection Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 
Asstt.., Acctt. Dept, Indian Aluminium Co Ltd 
11 1) C, Telegraph Check Ollice 
J >itto 


B 

Bagchi, Ainal Kumar, msc 

Bagchi, Bliuhan Mohan, BSC 
Bagchi, Jogosli Ch, BA 
Bagchi, Paresli Ch, BSC 
Bagchi, Paritosli, Boom 
Bagchi, Rishindra Nath, BSe 
Bagchi, Satyabrata, ma, bl 
Bagchi, Sit-esh Chandra, Bfom . . 
Bagchi, Mohit Kumar, ma, ixb ... 
Bajaj, Krishna Kumar, ba 
Bakar, J Aim. BOOM 
Bal, Nirode Chandra, Bcom 
Bala, Anil Kr., ba 
Bal asubramai li an , S R, BA (Hons) 
Banerjee, A B, BSC 
Baawji, Adi Nath, BCom 


U D Clerk, Office of the Ch Auditor, Eastern 
Railway 

Senior Assistant, Education Directorate 
Sr. Asstt, Education Directorate 
V D C, Office of I T 

Asstt, Stewarts & Lloyds of India Private Ltd 

IT DC , I T office, W Bengal 

Asst, Adm. office, Geological Survey of India 

II D 0, D A G, P AT 

Auditor, A-G, WB 

Acctt, A-G, WB 

U D 0, Office of the Commissioner of Income Tax 
L D Asstt, Iron & Steel Control 
U D C, I T office, West Bengal Dt 1(1) 

Acctt., D A G, P & T 
U D C, D A 44, P & T 
Store Clerk, Williamson Magor & Co 


7 Koilaghat Sheet 
73 ( \ >rm\ a Iks St i < h 
7, Koi la glial Stnrt 
23B, Nct-aji Suhlos 
7, Koilaghat Sho t 
Ditto 

Writers’ Buildup 

Treasury Budding 

P-7 Chow nngiici I s 

Victoria Ihwj^r 

Treasury Building . 

IB, Bankini (Unit I 
Street 

Treasury I>midim.> 
5, SN Bancr|(rK>i 
31 ( Miow niiL r licf IN'- 
33 Oulhousa S*|U'* r( 
Ditto 


16, Strand Bond 

Writers' budding 
Writers’ Buildings 
33 Netaji SuMuo 

41 , Chowrinidic( 

3 Govt. Place Wi-t 
27 , Cho wring bee 
7 Koilaghat Str.Tt 
Treasury Building 
Trensun buildup 
|>_13 Chm'T'inghrf N! 
33, Netoji^ 1 '^ 80 
3 Govt. l’l ftce 

7 Koilafrl‘“* ; 

7 Koilag hat S,rce ' 

4, Mango® I* 0 ® 



Name#. 


Jo. 


Style or oalling. 


Heeidence or plaoe of 
busineas. 


<14 Banerjee, Ajit Kumar, MA 
j;, Banerjee, Ajit Kumar, Boom 
Banerjee, Ajit Kumar, BA 

•17 Banerjee, Akshoy K, B COM 
is Bauer joe, Amal Chandra, BA 

.}() Banerjee, Amal Clumdra, BSC . . 

40 Banerji, Amal Kumar, Bcora 

41 Banerjee, Ajit Lai, BA 

42 Bailor joe, Amar Chand, BSC 

43 Banerjee, Am iya Kumar, m a , bi, . . . 

44 Banerjee, Amiya Kr, MCom 
4 ;> Banerji, Amitava, Boom 

4 (i Banerjee, Amulya Kr, BA 
47 Banerjee, Anil Chandra, Bcom •• 

4 5 Banerjee, Anil Kumar, BCom 
4 i» Banerji, Anil Kumar, uoom 
an Banerji, Anil Kumar, I, msc: 

a I Banerji, Arun, ha 

. 11 ' Banerjee, Ashutosh, ha (com) . . 

f»:> Banerjee, Asliim Kumar, M(!om 

f >4 Banerjee, Asis Kumar, BS( 1 

ai Banerji, A soke Kr, ma 

r»(i Banerji, Awoke, nso (III) 

r»7 Banerjee, Ashoke Nath, BA 

f.S Baneiji, B C, use BL 

r»lf Banerjee, Balaram, bcoih 

( >e Banerjee, Balaram Chandra, BA 

<>l Banerjee, Bejoy Kan j an, BA 

fi- Banerjee, Benoy Behari, liA 

f»‘> Banerjee, Benay Behari, ba 

,; 1 Banerji, B, BSc 

fi: ‘ Banerji, Bliajan K, bsc (Distil) . . 

Bailor je *e, Bibhuti Bhusan, BA . . 

Banerjee, Bibhuti Chandra, ba . . 

( *’ s Banerji, Bijoli Bh, ba 

^ Banerjee, Bimal Kumar, BA 

Banerjee, Birendra Kumar, BA, 
BT 

^ Banerjee, Birendra Nath, BSC . . 
im Banerji, Bireswar, bsc, Bcom 
^ Banerjee, Bishnupada, BCom 
** Benerji, Biswanath, ma (com) 

, J Banerjee, Biswanath, M Com 
^ Banerjee, Biswaranjan 
1 1 Banerji, Cliandi Pada 

8 Banerjee, Chittaranjan 
?9 D 

banerjee, Chittaranjan, MSC 
* B «werji, D K, bbo 
^ erjee, Debida*, BSC 


Asstt., Teacher, Oriental Seminary 
Auditor, A-G, WB 

U J) C , State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 

IT T) C, I) A G, V & T 
U T) C, Slatt; Trading Corpn of India Ltd 

Hd. Asst t , Geological Survey of India 
Clerk, State Bank of India 

Asstt, Secy, (Exam) Board of Secondary Education 
Sub Hoad, T A Office E Illy 
Office Mngr, Avery & Co 


22 b Upper Chit pur lload 
Treasury Buildings. 

22 Dalhousie Square, 
South 

7 Koilaghat Street 

22 Dalhousie Square 
Soul ii 

27 ( Miow ringhee 
Queen’s Mansions 
77/2 Bark St reel 
E 

Avery II oust', Waterloo 
Street. 


Sub Head E, lily 

Clerk, Cr II, Reserve Bank of India 
Sub Head E Illy 

U T) Asstt, Medical Br. Health Dept 

V II C, Telegraph Check Office 
Asstt, Stewarts and Lloyds Ltd 

Clerk, Accts Dept, Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co 
Private Ltd 

Clerk, Or 11 , Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade IT, Reserve Bank of India 

V D O, T) A G, P & T 


Eastern BIv House 
8 , Council House Street 
Eastern Illy House 
Writers’ Buildings 
22 DaJbousie Square 
4 1 < ’how ringhee Pd 
10 , Strand lload 

8 , Council House Street 
8 , Council House Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 


IT J) C, Office of the (Commissioner of Income Tax 
U J) Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Field Inspector, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 

Asstt Supdt, Tea Board 

Inspector, Collection Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 

Clerk, C P O S Office, E Llv 

Auditor, A (J Bengal 

Clerk, Grade Tl, Reserve Bank of India 

IT D Asstt, Education Dept 


2 ( Jovt. Place West 

Writers’ Buildings 

Treasury Buildings 

22 Dalhousie Square 
South 

27 A 2b Braboiirne Pd 
r», S. N. Banerjee Rood. 
17 Netaji Subhas Road 
r Trcas i i r v B i j i 1 ( li i igs 
8 , Council House Street 
Writers’ Buildings. 


Asstt, Imperial Chemical Industries Private Ltd . . 

11 D Clerk, 1) A-G, P & T Office 

Asstt, University of Calcutta 

Suptd (Exri), Board of Secondary Education 

U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office, 

U D C, 1) A G, P & T 
Asstt-. Master, Hindu School 

Clerk A, C E S C, Ltd 
U D Clerk, Tea Board 
U D C, Telegraph Check Office 
Clerk, Kilbum <fe Co Private Ltd 
IT D C, D A G, P & T 
LT I) C, D A G, P & T 
Hd Clerk, Macneill & Barry, Ltd 
U D C, Office of the Commissioner of Income Tax 
Acctt., D A G, P & T 
L D Clerk, Tea Board 
U D C, D A G, P & T 


24 Chou ringiicc 

7, Koilaghat Street 

Senate House 

77-2 Park Street. 

7, Koilaghat Street. 

7 Koilaghat Street 

I B Bank i in Challerjee 
Street 

Victoria. House 
27 & 29 Brabourne Hoad 
22 Dalhousie Square 
4, Fairlie Place 
7 Koilaghat Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 
2 , Fairlie Place 
P-7 Chowriiighee Sqr 
7 Koilaghat Street 
27 & 20 Brabourne Rood 
7 Koilaghat Street 



Name*. 


48 

Style or calling, 


Reddenoe or pl a9e ol 
buaineos. 


NO. 


82 Banerjee, Debkumar, BA 

HM Banerjee, Debi Prasad, msc 

.S : Banerjee, Dhirendrn Lai, BSC 
(List) 

8f> Banerjee, Dh i rend ra Nath, ba .. 
80 Panerji, Dilip Kumar, 

87 Banerjee, Dilip Kumar, BSC 

88 Banerjee, Dij»ii Sankar, BSC 

80 Banerjee, ’Dwipendru Narayan 


90 

Banerjee 

\ Copal Gliandra, bsc . 

91 

Banerji, 

Gopi diban, BA (Distn) , 

92 

Banerji, 

Guru Prosad, MA 

9M 

Banerji, 

Haradhan, ba 

94 

Banerji, 

llari Phusan, bsc 

9ft 

Banerjee 

, Haii liar, bsc 

90 

Banerjee 

, H emend ra. Nath, MC’oru 

97 

Banerjee 

, Hireudrn Nut h, ba 

98 

Banerjee 

, 1 1 mummy, ba 

99 

Banerjee 

, Javanta Kumar, PA 

100 

Banerjee 

, Jiban Krishna 

101 

Panerji, 

d nanabral a, Tl(’oii) 

102 

Banerjee 

. danardan, BA,PT 

103 

Banerji, » 

J itasankar, BA 

lol 

Banerjee, 

Kalipada 

io;> 

Banerjee, 

Karnalnpat i, PA 

lot; 

Banerjee, 
(( \>in ) 

Kesliah Chandra. MA 

107 

Banerjee*, 

Khetra Gopal, MA 

108 

Banerji, Kishori Lai, ba 

1 09 

Panel}!, Kn dinada*-, Muom 

no 

Banerjee 

Loknat h, BSC 

in 

Banei jee, 

Madan Mohan, BSC 

J 12 

Banerjee, 

Malay Kumar, bsc 


Asstt., University of Calcutta . . Senate House 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal . . . . Treasury Buildings 

Inspector of Income Tax, Office of t he Commissioner P-7 Chowrin»die<* s 
of I T ‘ ~ ‘ |,,J 

Auditor, A-G, WB . . Treasury Build mi/,. 

Ass 1 1 , Lovelock &. Lewis . . 4 Joyous Rama* 

U D C, J> A (2, P & T 7 Koilaghat Stj< ( i 


Inspector of Income 'fax. Office of the (Commissioner 
of I T 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Auditor, A-G, WB 
U 1) Clerk, 1 ) A-G, V & T Office 
IT D Clerk, I) A-G, P & T Office 


P-7 ( 'luiwringlu i Scjua, 

4 Bankshall Street, 
Treasury Build in<_N 
7, Koilaghat Street. 

7, Koilaghat Slier! 


II 1) Cleik, D A-C, P & T Office 
IT T) Clerk, I) A-G, P «fe T Office 
dr Tld Asstt, Medical Br. Health Dept. 


7, Koilaghat Sturt 
. . 7, Koilaghat Sturt 

Writers’ Buildings 


V T> C, I T Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G, WB 

Hd Cl, Collection Dept, Corjm of Calcutta 

V D C, D A (3, PA’ T 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 

Asstt, Imperial Chemical Industries Private Ltd 
Asstt. Master, Hindu School 


Clerk, Calcutta Improvement Tiust 
Asstt .Directorate of Agriculture 

Inspector of Income Tax, Office of the Commissioner 


of 1 T 


3, Govt. Place VVc .l. 
Treasury Buildings 

f», S. N. Baiicijce Stmt. 
7 Koilaghat Street 

4, Bankshall St rv« t 

.‘14 ( Mi<>\\ I Higher 

1 B Pajikim ( di.ittrijn 
St rc(‘t 

10, Nctaji Suldi (i> i i.k 1 
Writers’ Bin Id i in- 
P-S Brahourne Komi 


II I) C, Telegraph Check Office 


MM Dalhousic S< jiiai e 


Acett, A-G, WB 

Supdt . Geological Survey of India 
Auditor, A-G’s Offic e 
U 1) (I. State Trading Copn of India. Ltd 

IT D G, D A G, P & T 
Auditor, A-G, WB 


. . Treasury Buildings. 

. . 27, ChowTiughec 

Treasury Puddings 

.. M2 Dalhousn' Square 
Soul h 

. . 7 Koilaghat Sunt 

Treasury Buildings. 


I IM Banerji, Mauick Ch, ba 

J I 1 Banerjee, Mohan Gopal, BA 
lid Banerji, Mrmt unjoy , use 
llf> Banerji, Nadialal, ba, bt 

117 Banerjee, Nandadulal, BA 

118 Banerji, Nani Gopal 

II 1 Banerji, Nandalal, BA 

120 Banerjee, Nandadulal. BA 

121 Banerji, Narosh Ch, ba 

122 Banerjee, Nihar Kanjan 
12M Banerjee, Niranjan II, BSC 
124 Banerjee, Nirmal Kumar, MA 
12ft Banerji, Nirmal Ch, Boom 
120 Banerjee, Nirmalendu, bso 

127 Banerji, Nirmalendu, ba 

128 Banerji, Nirupam, ba 

129 Banerjee, Nishitendu, MA 

130 Banerji, Nitai Ch, bsc 

131 Banerjee, Nityananda, BA 


Clerk, Gr J, Reserve. Bank of India 
Asstt., Agricultural Marketing, West Bengal 
Supdt, Stationery Office 
Asstt Master, Gity Collegiate School 

Judl. 11(1 Asstt., Commissioner's Office, Presidency 
Division, West Bengal 

Asstt Master, Hindu School 

Clerk B, C K S C, Ltd 

Asstt., I T niversity of Calcutta 

U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 

U I) C, D A G, P & T 

II J) C, I) A G, P & T 

Supdt, Reserve Bank of Tndiu 

U 3) C, 1 T Office, West Bengal 

Aoott. I) A-G, P & T Office 

H C, Stationery Office 

U D C, State Trading Corpn of India 

L I) Clerk, Government of India Stationery Office . 

UDC, Telegraph Check Office 


8, Council fh'U.-c St reet 

Writers’ Buildup 
M, ( ’hun h Do 1 
13, Surja Sen Street 
1 1 Nctaji Nuhlui.-' 1*‘»^ 

IB Bankim «.’liu 1 1 .lji • s '; 
Victoria J louse 
Senate House 

7, Koilaghat Stiv.'t 
4 Bankshall Street. 

7 Koilaghat Street 

7 Koilaghat Sir <*t 

8, Council 

P-7 Chow : ingh (,(1 
7, Koilftfthnt Street 
3 Church La ne ^ ^ 

32 Dalhousic S<j- ‘ S,) 

3, Church L& 10 

33 Dalhousic S<i uftr8 



49 


Names. 


Style or oalling. 


j> banerji, Nripondra N, mcoiii 
^ Bin icr joe, Nripcndra Nath, IV1 A . . 
banerji, Pabitra K, bcojji 
panorji, Panchanan, bhc (Hons) . . 

^ Banerji, Parameswar, Boom 
Banerjee, Pamshnath, MCom 
Banerji, Paritosh, ma 
•V) Banerjee, Partha Sarathi, Moom 
4 ,, Oaiicrji, Pat.it Pabau. BA 
41 Banerji, Pranab Kalyan, BCom . . 
jj, Banerjee, Pranab Kumar, BCotn 
^ ; Banerjee, Prasad, ba . - 

^4 Banerjee, Promodi' Kumar. BA . . 

Banerji, Prosanta Kr., Boom. 


Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 

Asstt., Teacher, Bangabasi College School 

Clerk, Or II, liesorvo Bank of India . . 

Clerk, Telegraph Chock Office 

Clerk, Williamson Magor & Go Ltd 

Sr. Asstt., Board of Secondary Education 

V I) Clerk, D A-G, F & T Office 
Auditor, A.-G's Office, West Bengal 
Audit 01 , A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

L D Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept 

V D C. 1) A G, P & T 
Aeett, A-G, WB 

Asstt., West Bengal Provincial Co-operative Bank 
Clerk, Allahabad Bank Ltd 


4*1 Banerjee, Purnendu, use, 

47 Banerjee, Rabindra Nath, ba 
.p Baneiji, Rabindranath, ba 

4ii Banerjee, Ramcliandra, ma 
fill BaiK'rji, Ram Chandra, ba 
M Banerji, Ramhari, ba 

tJ Banerji, Ramesh Chandra, ba 
I (Hons) 

j&X Banerjee, Rameswar, BSC 

[ 4 Banerjee, Ram Ranjan, BA 
m Banerjee, Ranjan Kr, BA 
>*> Banerji, ltebati Mob a n, ma, bl 

)T Banerjee, S C, BSC 
> s Banerji, Sachindra Nath, ba 
>!» Banerjee, Sainbhu Nath, MA 
^ Banerji, Samir, use 
51 Banerji, S K, ba 
5- Banerjee, Sambhu Nath, BSC- 
^ Banerji, Sanat Kumar, bsc 

^ Banerjee, Sanat. Kumar, BS( J 
u banerji, Sanjit Kr, use 
^ Banerjee, Sankar Kumar, msc 
Banerjee, Sankari Prosad, BA 
iS banerjee, Santosh Kumar, MA 


Inspector, F. S Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 
U I) B , I T Office, West Bengal 

Seo.In- charge Directorate of Registration, West 
Bengal . 

Sr. Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G's Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, Grade 11, Reserve Bank of India 

U DC, Education Directorate 
IJ l) C, Telegraph Check Office 
Clerk B, C K K C Ltd 

C D Asstt, Animal Husbandry &. Vetonary Services 
Dept. 

Chemist, W B Public Health Laby 
Asst, I/, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
Asstt., Teacher, Oriential Seminary 
Accountant, A-G ’a Office, West Bengal 
Inspector, Tea Board 
l) I) C, 1) A G, P & r r 
Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 

S. G. Clerk, Stale. Trading Corpn ol India 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G, W B 

Aett, State Trading Coipn oi India Ltd . . 

Teacher, Surcndra Nath Collegiate School 


^ banerji, Saradindu, ma 
Banerji, Saroj Kumar, bsc 
Banerjee, Saroje Kumar, Bcom . . 


h * Bane rjer, Saroj Kumar, BSC 
7 ,!a " or ji. Sarat Chandra 
. Su,tya Copal, BSC 

^ Banerjee, Satya Ranjan, msc 
* Banerji, Satyendra Mohan, ma, 
\ Banerjee, Satyendra Nath, BA 
L a Bc^ eei ® a ^y en 4ra Prosanna, 

Satyendra Nath, ba 
ji< 8Wb Krighna, b a 


Auditor, A-G*s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A.-Gs Office, West Bengal 
Hd. Clerk, Administrator Genl and Offl Trustee, 
West Bengal. 

V J) C, Telegraph Cheek Office' 

Asstt, Martin Burn, Ltd 
U I) C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
Examiner, Stationery Office 
Teacher, Scottish Church Collegiate School 
U D C, D A G, PAT 

Asstt* Law (Judicial) Dept f * 

Clerfc, Grade 1, Reserve fi&hk bf India 

Cleric 1 Grad* I, Reeerre B of Indie ' ' 


Residence or pl&oe of 
business. 

7, Koilaghat Street 
S/1 Santosh Mitra Sqr 

8 , Council House Street 

33, Dalhousic Square 
South. 

4 Mangoe Lane 
77 /2 Park St reet 

7, Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings. 
Treasury buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
7 Koilaghat St rect 
Treasury Buildings. 

10 Old Court House 
Street. 

Allalial>ad Bank 

Buildings. 

5 f S. N. Banerjee Road. 
3, Govt Place Wist. 
Writers* Buildings 

77-2 Park Street. 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 

8 , Council House Street 

Writers* Buildings 
33 Dalhousic Square 
Victoria House 
Writers’ Buildings 

( /hit t a ranjan Avenue 
10Ne.ta.ji Suhhas Road 
330 l ppei ( ’hitpui Ivd 
Treasury Bui Mings 
27 & 20 Brabourne Road 
7 Koilaghat. Street 
0 Church Lane 
32 Dalhousic Sq South 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings. 

32 D.i IhoiiHie Sq South 

24 2 Mahatma Gandhi 
ltd 

Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
1, Hastings Street, 1 0th 
Floor, C.dcutta 

33 Dalhousic Squaic 
12 Mission Row 

33 Dalhousic Square 
3 Church Lane 
73, Cornwallis Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Writers Bldgs 

8, Council Hetisfc Street 
8, Council Htrtue Btrce* 



60 


No. 


Nome*. 


Style or o&Uing, 


K*wid««»oeor plao* 0 
busineflg. 


181 Banerjee, Shyam Madhab, ba 

182 Bauer ji, Shibendra Nath, MOom . . 

1 Banerjee, SitalaproBad, BA 
] 84 Banerjee, Somendra Nath, MA . . 
185 Banerji, Somnath, ba 
18b Banerji, Subama, bsc 

187 Banerjee, Subhas Chandra, Boom, 

188 Banerji, Subhas Chandra, MA 

189 Banerjee, Sueharu, BSC 

190 Banerjee, Sudhanahu Kumar, BA 

191 Banerji, Sudhir Kr, bsc 

1 92 Banerjee, Sukhomoy, BCom 
1911 Banerji, Sukumar, MA 

194 Banerjee, Sunil Kumar, BCom . . 

195 Banerjee, Susliil Chandra, BA - . 
190 Banerji, Swaraj Kumar, ma 

197 Banerjee, Tarak Nath BCom . . 

1 98 Banerjee, Tarapada, Boom 

199 Banik, N, Mac 

200 Barat, Biswadeb, BA 

20J Bardhan, Benoy Ttanjan, MCom 
LLB 

202 Barman, Nirmal Chand, BA 

203 Barman, Kanta Charan, ba 

204 Barori, Narayan (Chandra, BCom 

205 Barnia, Asoke Banjan, bsc 
200 Barua, Nihar Baran, ba 

207 Barua, Smlhansu Bimal, MA 

208 Barury, Kumud llan j an, BA 

209 Basak, Amulya Kumar, bsc 

210 Basak, Ail up Kumar 
21 ! Basak, Gour Copal 

212 Basak, Jaladhar, ma 

213 Basak, Naba Kumar, BCom 

214 Ba8ak, Nanda Gopal, ba 

215 Basak, Nandalal, BSC- 

21 0 Basak, Nirmal Kanti, MCom 

217 Basak, Nityagopal, MA 

218 Basak, Sailcndra Nath, ba 

219 Basak, Shib Narayan, bso 

220 Basak, Sudhindra L, BCom 

221 Basu, A. K., ma 

222 Basu Ajit, bsc (Dist) 

223 Basu, Ajit K, II, bso . . 

224 Basu, Ajit K, ba 

225 Basu, Ajit Kumar, BSC 
220 Basu, Ajit K ba 

227 Basu, Anial Kumar, BCom 

228 Basu, Amalondu, BSO 

229 Basu, Amalendra N, bsc 

230 Basu, Arnar Nath, BA 

231 Basu, Anadi Kanjan, BSC, BCom 

232 Basu, Anil Chandra, ba 

233 Basu, Anil Kumar, BCom 

234 Basu, Ardhendu Bhusan, BA,LLB 

23^ Basu, Arun Bikash, bsc 

Jtfun Narayan, Boom 


Auditor, A-G, WB 

Clerk, Ac/s Dept, Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co. 

Private Ltd. 

Aoctt, DAG.P&T 
Sr. Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
U B Clerk, Tea Board 

U I) Asstt, Home T)eptt (Poll C. R.) 

Auditor, A-G’a Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, B, C E S C Ltd 

Officer, Central Bank of India Ltd (New Market 
Branch ) 

U D Clerk, Government of India Stationery Office 
Asstt, L A Branch, Land & Land Rev. Dept 
U D Clerk, Tea Board 

U D C, T) A G, P & T 

Hd. Asstt., Geological Survey of India 

Auditor, AGWB 

U T) C, Telegraph ( -heck Office 

Inspector, Collection Department, Cal. Corpn. 

Asstt, Stationery Office 

Field Inspector, Gr, 2, State Trading Corpn of India 
Ltd. 

Ins, I T Office 


Treasury Buildings. 
16, Strand Road 

7 Koilaghat Street 
77-2, Park Street 
7, Koilaghat Street 

27 & 29, Brabo, 

Road. 

Writers’ BuildingR 
Treasury BuildingR 
Victoria House 
10 Lindsay Street 

3, Church Lane 
Writers* Buildings 

27 & 29, Braboume 
Road 

7 Koilaghat, Street 
27 Chowringhee 
Treasury Biuldmgs 
33 Dalhousie Nqinuc 
5, S. N. Banerjee ]{<> 
3, Church Lane 
32 Dalhousie Squaii* 
South 

P-8 Brabourne Bead 


IT D C, D A G, P A T 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Clerk B, C E S C, Ltd 

Act-t, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

IT I) C, l T Office, West Bengal 

Asstt., Teacher, St. Xavier’s Collegiate School 

Acctts Stipdt, Geological Survey of India 

Inspector Sr, C E S C, Ltd 

Asstt, Directorate of Agriculture 

Asstt, Directorate of Agriculture 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Auditor, A-G, WB 

Accountant, All -India Radio 

Foreman Gr 2, C E S C Ltd 
IT 1) C , 1 T Office 

Sec. Hd, Life Insurance Corpn of India, Oriental 
Govt, Security Life Assurance Co 
Supdt (Exn), Board of Secondary Education 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
UDC, Telegraph (-heck Office 
Asstt, Imperial Chemical Industries, Ltd 
Inspector, F S Dept, Corpn of Calcutta. . 

Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
U D Clerk, DjV-G, P & T Office 
Acott, A G Bengal 

Asstt, West Bengal Provincial Co-operative Bank 

Asstt Adm Officer, Geological Survey of India 
Demonos, Surendra Nath College 

U I) Clerk, I) A-G, P & T Office 
Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept 
Hd. Clerk, Commerce & Industries Dept 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U D C, I T Office, West Bengal 
UDC, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 

Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 
Clerk-Typist, State Bank of India 


7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 
Victoria House 
Treasury Building? 
P-8 Bralmurnn Rond 
30 Park St rent 
27 Chowring hee 
Victoria House 
Writers’ Building:- 
Writers' Buddm<:,- 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Building**. 
All Indin Radio, h 
Garden. 

Victoria House 
33 Netaji Subhas Jut 
2 Clive Row 


77-2 Park Street. 


7, Koilaghai Street 

33 Dalhousie Square 

34 Chowringhee 


5, SN Banerjee Ko;u 
7, Koilaghat Street 
7, Koilaghat Street 

Treason Buildings 
16 Old Court H " 
Street. 

27 Chownnghi*^ 

24-2 Mahatma liiu" 11 ' 


Road 

7, Koilaghat Street 
Writers’ Building" 
45 Gain'd 1 Ch. A' 1 


Building 5 
lace West 
sic Squa* 

isie Sqf' ^ 




; Baau, Asit Kumar, bso 

I Vnm, Asoke Kumar, ma, bl 
y Basil, Balai Chandra, BA 

I I Bholanath, BSO 

I Ba&u, Bidyut K, bsc 
B asu Bhabani Pr, BSC 

•» Basil, Bijoy K, Boom 
4 Basu, Bireshranjan 
Basu, Hires war, ba 
^ Basil, Brmdaban, BSO 
17 Basil, Oharu Mihir, bsc. 

|S Basu, Cbinmay K, ma 
ID Basu, Chittaranjon, Bcorn 
j,, Basu, Dakshina Charan, bsc 

II Basu, Dcbrabrata, BCom 
m Basu, Debidas, BA, LLB 

|;; Basu, Dilip Kumar, bsc 
U Basu, Dwarika Nath, Boom 
ft Basu, Hemendra Nath, mso 
IT, Basu, Tiirendra Nath, MA,BT 
IT Basu, Jagadish Ch, BCom 
|s Basu, Jagadish Chandra, ma, bl 


ID Basu, Jugal Kishoro, bsc 
I n Basu, Jyotirmoy, ma 
II Basu. Jyotirindra Narayan, ba, 
llb. 

|J Basu, Kabindra Sekhar, BA 
Hi Basu, Kalidas, BA 
U Basu. Kaniakshya Prosad ba 


5T> Basu, Karunamoy, BCom 
Basu, hushori Mohan, BA 
57 Basu, Krishna Kr, BCom 
5s Basu, Kshetra Mohon, ma 
K* Basu, Lalraohon, BA 
i (l Basu, Makhanlal, Boom 
B Basu, Mukul Kr, ma 
B asu, Naba Gopal, Boom 
Ikisu, Nalini Ran j an, MA,BT 


B Basu, Narayan Prosad, BSC 
* ,J Basu, Naresh Kumar, ba 
^ Basu, Nirmal Kumar, ma 
d Basu, Nirmal K, ba 
* S Basu Nityaranjan MCom 
,!l Basu, Nripati Nath, MA 
& (l Basu, Nrisingha P, MOom 
^ Basu, Pabitra Kumar, ma, BCom 
^ Basu > Prabhat Kr, ba 
* Ba * ll > Promode Nath, BA 
Basu, Prornotha Ranjan, BSC 
’I Basil > Pianab Kumar 

Bas U> Prananta Kumar, bsc 

Rameah Chandra, bsc 


Ba ^, Ramprosad, BCom 
L, ^ a * u > ^ an jit Kumar, bso 
aftu » tUbindra Nath, ba 


Sachindra Nath 
u » Sachindra Nath, bso 
< iliu » Sa ilesh Chandra, MSC 


SI 


Style or oalling. 


Reoidenoe or plaoe of 
business. 


Auditor, A-G, W B 

Sr. Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
U T) C, 1) A G, P & T 

U D C, Office of the Commissioner of Income Tax 

U D Clork, D A-G, P & T Office 

IT T) C, D A G, P & T 

(Jerk. Ur II, Reserve Bank of India 

Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept 

Assistant, National Fire & GI lusc Co, Ltfl 

Sub Head, E Rly 

U 1) C, I T Office, West Bengal 

(Jerk, Gr 1, Reservo Bank of India 

Clerk Gr. 11, Reserve Bank of India 

inspector, Collection Dept, Oorpn of Calcutta 

U D 0, Telegraph Chock Office 

U D (\ State Trading Oorpn of India Ltd 

U D Clerk, Income Tax Office 
Clerk, Gr. II, Reserve Bank of India 
Examiner, Stationery Office 
Supdt, Geological Survey of India 
Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India . . 

Head Asstt, West Bengal Secretariat, Education 
Department. 

Acctt, D A-G, P&T Office 
Clerk, Grade 11. Reserve Bank of India 
Sr. Clerk, Associated Electrical Industries (India) 
Pte Ltd. 

Asstt, Agricultural Marketing, West/ Bengal 
UD Clerk, IT Office 

Asstt, Land Acquisition Branch, Land & Land 
Rev. Depart 

Clerk, Gr. I, Reserve Bank of India 
Sub Head, E Rly 
U D C, Telegraph Check Office 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Asstt, University of Calcutta 
U D Asstt, Education Department 
U D C, I T Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G, W B 
Asstt Master, Hindu School 

L D Asst t, Health Dept (Medical Rr) 

U D C, Commissioner of Income Tax Office 
Auditor, A-G *s Office, West Bengal 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
U D C, D A G, P <fe T 

Asstt Teacher, Metropqlition Institution (Mam) 
Clerk Gr II, Reserve Bank of India. 

Auditor, Lovelock & Lewis 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, T F, West Bengal 

U D C, D A G, P & T 

U D C, Office of the Commissioner of income Tax 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
U D C, Income Tax Office 

Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

Auditor, A G Bengal 
U D C, I T Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G,WB 
Hd Clerk, Macneill & Barry, Ltd 
U D Asstt, Education Directorate 
Statistical Officer, Planning A Development Dept, 
Oorpn of Calcutta 


Treasury Buildings 
77-2 Park Street. 

7 Koilagliat Street 
P-7 ( Jm\\ ringhee Nqr. 

7, Koilagliat Street 

7 K < > 1 1 < i l’ 1 1 • i ( Street. 

S, < VnineiJ House* Street 
\\ ritei o Buildings 

Kasleru Railway He>us e 
J. ( io\ t Pla.ee West. 

S, Council House Street 
S, Council Mouse Street 
o, S N. Bauer joe Road. 
22 1 >a IlmiiMe Square 

22 Da JheuiMe Square 
Soul h 

J, Govt IJacc, West, 

S, Council House Street 
•J, ( J lurch Lane 
27 ( Jiow l ingbee 
S, Council House Street, 
Writers' Buildings. 

7, Koilagliat Street 

8 ( /Oiii n il House Street 
(5 Mission Row 

Wi it ei Buildings 
P7, ( Jiowringliee Square 
Write is' Buildings. 

S, Council House* St, met 
ICidcm Bailway House 
22 I kdlmusie Square' 
Treasury Buildings 
Nennt e I louse* 

Writ,e*rs' Buildings. 

P 7, ( JiowTitighee Square 
Treasu rv Buildings. 

I B Bankun ( 'hat terjee 
Street 

Writers. BiuJeluigs 
4, Hasting Street. 
Treasury Buildings 
7, Koilagliat, Street 

7 Koilagbal Street 

2b S.mkar Ghosh Lane 

8 Council House Street 
4, Lyons Range. 

Treasury Buildings 

7 Koilachat Street 
V 7 (Jiowringliee* S pi are 
T Bankshall Si reel.. 

J Government Place 
West 

22, Dalhousie Square, 
South 

Treasury Buildings 
4. Hastings Street, 

T re *as u ry Hi j ild i ngs. 

2, Fairjic PJaee 
Writers* Buildings 
5 S. N. Bauer;*# Bo&d 



No. Names. 

294 Basil, Sakti Kumar, Bcom 

295 Basu, Salil Kumar, ba 

296 Basu, Samarendra Mohan, booth 

297 Basu, Samarendra Nath, bsc 

298 Basu, Samar Kanti, MA 

299 Basil, Sambhu Gopal, BA 

300 Basu, Sankar Kumar, bsc 

301 Basu, Sankar Lai, BA 

302 Basu, Sat ya Charan, BSC 

303 Basu, Satyendra Nath, BSC 

304 Basil, Sat varatijan, MA 

305 Basu, Si ha Prasad, bsc 
300 Basu, Shymalendu, ba 


307 

Basu, Sripati Bhusan, MNC 


308 

Basu, Subodh Chandra, BA 


309 

Basu, Sudhir Ranjan, BA 


310 

Basu, Subhendu Kumar, BA 


311 

Basu, Si (has Ch, Mcom. 


312 

Basu, Sunil Kumar, (I), BA 


313 

Basu, Sunil Kumar, BA 


314 

Basu, Supravat, ncom 


315 

Basu, S. K., msc 


310 

Basu, Swapan Kumar, BCom 


317 

Basu, Tapan Kumar, BSC 


318 

Basu. Tarakali, MA 

. . 

319 

Basu Mulliek, Amit Kumar, use 

320 

Basu Mulliek, Sarajendra 
booth 

Ch, 

321 

Basu Roy, Dchaprosad, BSC 


322 

Basu Roy, Lai Mohan, ba 


323 

Basu Sarbadhikary, Jagat Kumar, 
BSC 

324 

Batabyal, Narnia Kishore, Boom 

325 

Batabyal, vSailendra Nath, BA 


320 

Baur, Subai Chandra, ba 


327 

Bora, Aviram 


328 

Bera, Bibhuti Bhusan, ba 


329 

Bhadra, Rabindranath, ba 


330 

Bhaduri, Anil Kumar, BA 


331 

Bliaduri, Ashoke Kumar, ba 


332 

Bhaduri, Bh upend ra Chandra, 

BA 

333 

Bhaduri, Sadhan Kumar, ba 


334 

Bhaduri, Sudhansu, ba 


335 

Bhakta, Satish Chandra, ba 


330 

Bhanja, Sudhansu Sekhar, ba (H) 

337 

Bhar, Debaprasad, ma 


338 

Bhar, Krishna Kishore, bsc 


339 

Bhar, Ramendu, ba 


340 

Bhar, Saehiiulra Nath, BSC 


341 

Bhatnagar, Giredave Krishna 


342 

Bhatia, Bangsidhar,Msc 


343 

Bhatta, Chandi Charan, BA 


344 

Bhatt, Sitaram, BGom 


345 

Bhattacharjee, Abinash Chandra, 
BA. 

346 

Bhattacharji, Achal, Koom 

. . 


347 Bhattacharji, Ajit Kumar, boo m 

848 Bhattacharjee, Amal Kumar, 


52 

Style or calling. 

Asstt, Home (G.A.) Department 
Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India ... 

U D 0, Income Tax Office 

Auditor, A-G's Office, West Bengal 
Research Asst t, Animal Husbandry & Vetennary . . 
Services 

Auditor, A-G,WB 
Asstt Inspector, O E S C, Ltd 
Steno, Gr I, Reserve Bank of India 
U D C, Telegraph Check ( tffice 

V I> C, D A G, P & T 
Auditor, A G, Bengal 

U I) C, 1 T Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, Adi's Office, West Bengal 
S G C, Telegraph ('heck Office 
Asstt, University of Calcutta 

Asstt, Life insurance Corpn of India Oriental Govt 
Security Life Assurance Co 
Ins, I T Office 
U D Clerk, Tea Board 

U DC, DA G, P & T 

Auditor, A G, Bengal 

Auditor, A-G,WB 

Asstt, Indian Alluminium Co Ltd 

U D C, I T Office, West Bengal 

U D C, D A G, P & T 

IJ 1) C, Telegraph Check Office 

Auditor, A-G's Office, West Bengal 

Clerk, Gillanders Arbuthnot & Co, Ltd 

U D C, 1) A G, P AT 

Clerk, Standard Vaucuum Oil Co 

IT D Asstt, Medical Br, Health Dept 

Inspector, Collection Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 

IT I) <\ T> A G, P & T 

IT D Asstt Home (Poll-CR) Dept. 

Aoetts Supdt, Geological Survey of India 
U D Asstt, Department of Agriculture and Food 
Production 

Aectt, D A-G, P & T Office 

V D C, D A G, P & T 
Auditor, A-G,WB 

U D Asstt Forest Department 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G's Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G,WB 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P& T Office 
Auditor, A-G.WB 

Gr II Clerk, Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation 

U D Clerk; D A-G, P & T Office 
IT D 0, D A G, P & T 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Auditor, A-G's Office, West Bengal 
Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
Clerk, Branches, Central Bank of India Ltd (New 
Market Branch) 

Offg Asstt Collector, Collection Dept, Corpn of 
Calcutta. 

UDC, Income Tax Office 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India « « 

UDC, DAG, PAT 


ResKdenoe or place 0 | 
business. 

Writers’ Buildings 
8, Council House Stre 
3, Government pi. 
West 

Treasury Building 
Writers’ Buildings 

Treasury Buildings 
Victoria House 
8, Council H oii,(> St r » 
33 Dalhousie Nipm rr 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Building 
3, Govt Place West. 
Treasury Building 
33 Dalhousie Sqimn 
Senate House 

2 ('live Row 

3 Govt Phi vi WeM 
27 &, 29, Brabourne R 

7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
31, Chow rill ghee Road 
P-13 Chowringliee iS<ju; 
7 Koilaghat Street 
33 Dalhousie Nqmin 
Treasury B ui Id mgs 
Clive Buildings 

7 Koilaghnl St i eel 
0, Church Lara' 
Writers' Buildings 

5, S. N. Banerjee Road 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Writers’ Buildings 
27 Chowrmghee 
Writers’ Building*- 

7, Koilaghat Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings. 
Writers’ Buildings. 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Bui 1<1 mg* 
Treasury Buildings 
7, Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings. 
31, Dalhousie Square 

7, Koilaghat Street 
7 Koilaghat Stn et 

4, Bankshall Street- 
Treasury Buddings 
77/2 Park Street 
10 Lindsay Stmet 

5, S. N. Banerjt** 

3, Government’ B** 1 

8 . 

7 



53 


N&mfti. 


Style or oalling. 


Reuldenoe or plaoe of 
business. 


Bliattaeharjee, Amulya Bhusan, 
BSc. 

Bhattacharjee, Amulya Kr, BA . . 
Bhattacharjeo, Amulya Ratan, 
BA, BT. 

Bhattacharjee, Anil Kumar, BA 
Bhattacharjee, Din&t&ran, BA 
Bhattacharji, Arun Kumar, ba 
Bhattacharji, Arun Kumar, ma 
Bhattacharjee, Arun Prakash, 

MA 

Bhattacharji, Ash u tosh, ba 
Bhattacharjee, Ashim Kr., BA 
Bhattacharjeo, Abhik Kumar, BA 


Demonstrator, Surendra Nath College 

Inspector, I T Office 
Teacher, Hindu Academy . . 

IT D 0, D A O, P & T 
S G Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Assistant, Editor Geological Survey of India 
U D Asstt, Medical Branch, Health Dept. 


Auditor, A-U ’s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, Eastern Railway 

IT D 0, State Trading Corpn. of India Ltd. 


Bhattucharjya, Baidyanatli, ma Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

Bhattacharjeo, Barun Kumar, Asstt, Accounts Dept., Life Insurance Corpn. of 
BOOM India, Sunlife Assurance Co of Canada. 

Bhattacharjee, Basudov, BOOM Asstt, Commerce and Industries Dept. 

Bhattacharji, Kenoy Bhusan. ba Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 
Bhattacharji, Benoy K, II, ba . . U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 

Bhattacharji, Bhabadev, bsc . . Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Bhattacharji, Bholanath, Boom . . Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Bhattacharji, Bhupatinath, BCom U 1) Asst, Home Dept (G A) 

Bhattacharji, Bibhuti Bhusan, Clerk, Grade Tl, Reserve Bank of India 
ba, u.b 


24/2 Mahatma Gandhi 
Road. 

P-8 Brn bourne Road 
50 Amherst, Strict. 

7 Koilaghat Street 
33 Dalhousio Square. 
Treasury Buildings 

27, Chowringhee 
Writers' Buildings. 

Treasury Buildings 
Eastern Rly House. 

32 Dalhousio Square 
South. 

8, Council House Street 
23B Notaji Subhas Road 

Writers’ Buildings. 

8, Council House Street 
7, Koilaghat Street 

Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
8, Council House Street 


Bhattacharji, Bidyadhar, ma . . Hd Asstt, Board of Revenue 
Bhattacharjee, Bidyut Kr, BSC . . UI) C, I T Office, I)t, 1(1) 

Bhattacharjeo, Birendra Kumar Asstt. Administrative Officer, Geological Survey 
BSc. of India. 

Bhattacharjee Biswanath, MCOM U D C, D A G P & T 
Bhattacharji, Biswanath, (ii) ba . . Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Bhaiiacharji, Chanda n K dinar ba U D Asstt, Education Dejit, West Bengal 
Bhattacharjeo, Dobuprasad. MA IT D C, DA G, P & T 
Bhattacharjee, Dehvanjan, MA U 1) (\ 1 T Office, Dt V(l) 

Bhattacharji, Dili raj Kumar, Assistant, Finance Department 

HA 


Writers* Buildings 
3 Govt Place West, 

27 Chowringhee Road 

7 Koilaghat Street. 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Street. 

P-7 Chowringhee Nqr. 
Writers* Buildings 


BhattMcharji, Dhirondra Mohan, 
boom 

Blmttacharjw, Dhi rend ra Nath 
MA. 

Bliutta* harjee, Dili]) Kr, BA 
Bliattacharjee, Dinetulra Ch, BA 

Bliattacliarji, Dwijendra Nath, 

MA 


Sec Leader, Associated Electrical Industries, Ltd . . B, Mission Row 
IT I) C, Telegraph Check Office . . , . 33 Dalhousio Squaro. 


L D (\ l T Office, Dt V ( 1 ) . . 3 Govt Place West 

Head Clerk, Mpl. Dept-., Commissioner’s Office, 1 1 Netaji Subhas Road 
Presidency College, West Bengal. 

Jr Clerk, B C E S C, Ltd . . ... Victoria House 


Bhattaoharjya, Dwijosli Chandra, Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of Inida . . 
ba 

Bhattacharji, Dulal Ch, boom Clerk, Grade 1, Reserve Bank of India 

Bliattacharj***, Gopal Chandra, Asstt., Commerce and Industries Dept. 


. . 8, Council House Street 

8, Council House Street 
Writers’ Buildings. 


Bhattacharji, Gopal Chandra MA 
bhattacharji, Gopi Nath, ba 
bhattacharji, Gouranga, Boom . . 
bhattacharjee, Gouranga K, MA 

bhattacharji, Gouri Kanta, BA 
bhattacharji, Gouri Pati BA(Hons) 

^bhattacharjee, Govinda, BSC . . 
^bhattacharji, Haradae, ba 

^ttacharji, Hari Dm, ma 


Auditor, A-G’s, W B . . Treasury Buildings 

U D Clerk, D A-G, PAT Office . . . . 7. Koilaghat Street 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal . . . . Treasury Buildings 

Asstt, Life Insurance Corpn. of India, Oriental 2 Clive Row. 

Govt. Security Life Assurance Co. 

Inspector office of C I T, W B . . 4, Hastings Street. 

Office Superintendent Comercial Intelligence and 1, Council House Street. 
Statistics. 

UDC, DAG, P&T . . 7 Koilaghat Street 

Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education • * 77/2, Park Street 

Road 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India • • Council House Su * 



No. 


Names. 


54 

Style or calling. 


395 Bhattacharji, Ilaridhan, Boom 
395 Bhattacharji, Harikanto, Boom 

397 Bhattacharji, Hanprosad, mi 

398 Bhattacharji, Himangshu, Pr. ba 
939 Bhattacharjee, Jaladhar, MCOM 

400 Bhattacharji, Javan ta, bl 

401 Bhattacharjeo, Jiban Kanta, BSC 

402 Bhattacharji, Jibananda, ba 

403 Bhattacharji, Jyotirmoy, bbc 

404 Bhattacharji, K P, ba 

405 Bhattaoharji, Kanai Lai, bsc 
400 Bhattacharji, Khudiram, ba 

407 Bh attach arjva, Krishtiapada, ba 

408 Bhattacharji, Madliab Ch. ma 

409 Bhattacharjeo, Manick Copal, 

BOOM 

410 Bhattacharjoe, Manirulra Nath, 

BA(Hosn) 

411 Bhattacharjeo, Manmotha Nath, 

MSe BT 

412 Bhattacharjoe, Monoranjan, BA 

413 Bhattacharjeo, Mnkunda Mohan, 

BSC 

414 Bhattacharjoe, Nani Copal, BA . . Auditor, A C, Bengal 

415 Bhattacharji, Nani Gopal, Bcoin Clerk, Gr IT, Reserve Bank Of India . . 

41G Bhattacharjoe, Narondra Lai, BSC Inspector, T T Office 

417 Bhattacharji, Nikhil Bandhu, A ecs Clerk, Indian (/able Co (India), Ltd 

Boom 

418 Bhattacharjoe, Nirmalendu, BA . . L L> Asstt, Modi<*al Br, Health Dept 

419 Bhattacharji, NrijKmdra Nath, bhc Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Kduc.it ion 

420 Bhattacharjoe, Panehu Gopal, BA U D C, JD A G P & T 

421 Bhattacharji, Paresh Ch, ma . . Inspector, Collection Dept., Corpn of Gal 

422 Bhattacharji, Paritosh, BA . . U I) C, I) A (1 ? & T 

423 Bhattacharji, Phani Bhusan, ma U D Clerk, I) A-G, P «fe r l‘ Office 

424 Bhattacharjya, Phanindra Kishore, Auditor, A G’s Office 

MA 

425 Bhattacharji, Piyush Kanti, ba Aoctt, A G VV B 

425 Bhattacharji, Prabhati, bsc . . Auditor, A G W B 

427 Bhattacharji, Prasanta Kumar, Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 

MS0 

428 Bhattacharji, Premanahu, bsc Asstt Land Revenue Br, Land & Laud Rev Dept 

429 Bhattacharji, Prithis, ba . . Inspector, I T Office, Dt. 1(1) W B 

430 Bhattacharjoe, Rabindra Nath . . Asstt, Directorate of Agriculture 

431 Bhattacharji, Ramesh Chandra ma Asstt, Land Acquisition Dept 

432 Bhattacharjoe, Ramprosad, Security Clerk, Central Bank of India, Ltd (New 

BCOM, LLB Market Br). 

433 Bhattacharjoe, S, BA . • Clerk B, C E S C Ltd 

434 Bhattacharji, Sachindra N, Boom Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India . . 


Clerk, Tata Iron & Steel Co Ltd 

Auditor, A G W B 

Acctt, D A-G, P & T Office 

Supdt, Board of Secondary Education.. 

U D C, Telegraph Check Office 

Salesman, T E Thomson & Co, Ltd 

UDC.DAGP&T 

U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Offi<*> 

Auditor, A G W B 
Inspector, Tea Board 
Acctt, D A-G, P & T Office 
Assistant, Co-op Directorate 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India . . 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Hd Asstt, Geological Survey of India 

U I) C, D A G P &. T 

Asstt Teacher, Oriental Seminary 

Sub Head, E Rly 
U T) G\ I) A G P & T 


Residence or 
business. 

23B, Netaji Sub| laa j 
Teasury Building,, 

7 Koilaghat Street 
77/2 Park 

. 33 Dalhousio Square 

9 A Esplanade Rust 

. 7 Koilaghat Street 

7 Koilaghat St reet 
Treasury Buildings 
27 & 29, Brabourne B 

7 Koilaghat Street 

New Secretariat Iii 
ings 

8 Council House Stu 
Treasury buildings 

27 Cliowringliee 

7 Koilaghat Street 

335 Upper (’hi! (HI! j 

3 Koilaghat Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 

. Tn uisury BiuMi'ig^ 

S OouneiJ Heu.se Slim 
P-7 Ohowi ingliee 

9 Mare Si reel 

Wh it iM"; 1 * 1 1 1 1* h ug“ 

. 77/2. Bark 

. 7 I i lag hat Street 

5, S N ll.iuerjet IM 
. 7 Koilaghat Street 

7 Koilaghat Street 
Trcasun Building 

Treasury HuiMiug* 

Treasu ry Ihi i M*ug r ' 

8 Council 
Writers’ Building 
;i Govt Place West 
Writers’ Building- 

Writers’ J > 1 1 1 J ( 1 ! 1 

10 Lindsay St"* 1 - 

Victoria TfoiisB- 

8 Council 



Name* 


- Bhattacharjee, S C, BSc 

(j Bhattacharji, Sadasib, ba 

- Bhattacharji, Sailendra Bejoy, ba 
;S Bhattacharji, Samarendra, ma 

4 Bhattacharjee, Santi Ran j an, BA 
(> Bhattacharji, Santosh Kr, ba 

1 Bhattacharjee, Santosh, BA 
> Bhattacharjee, Sarada Gopal, BA 

3 Bhattacharjee, Saroj Kumar, BA 

4 Bhattacharji, Satindra M, Bcom 

- Bhattacharji, Sisir Kumar, msc . . 
t; Bhattacharji, Soumendra Mohon, 

BSC 

7 Bhattacharjee, Sripati Ranjan, 
BA. 

$ Bhattacharji, Subhas Chandra, bsc 
\9 Bhattacharji, Sudhansu Ranjan, 
BL 

Bhattacharji, Sudhindra Mohan, 

MA 

1 Bhattacharjee, Sunil Kumar, MA, 
LLB. 

-I Bhattacharji, Suranath, Boom 
;; Bhattacharjee, SukomaJ, BSr 


4 Bhattacharji, Surja Kumar, ba 
»."» Bhattacharji, Sushil Kumar, ba 
» ii Bhattacharjee, Sushil Kr., BA 
»T Bhattacharji, Sushil Kjt, ma 

Bhattacharji, Swadesh Ranjan, ma 
>f Bhattacharjee, Tar ad as BSc 
Bhattacharjee, T, BSc 


ii Bhattacharji, Tarapada, ba 
hhiittacliarji, Tarapada, use 
Blaittachaiji, Tushar Kanti, bsc 
^ Bhattacharjee, Tlrishikesh, BA 
bhmvaJ, Amarendra N, BSo 


BhowaJ, Sudh.tr Chandra, bsc 
Hhaumik, Bilan Chandra, BA 
Bhowinick, Biahnupada, ba 
Hhowmiok Jadav Chandra, bcoiii 
hh wmick. Jyotirmoy, Boom 
hhowruik, Madliabendra, BSe 

bhowinick, Prasanta Kumar, 
scorn 

bhowinick, Rabindra Nath, ba 
Bhowniiok, Ranajit, ba 
Bliu wm ick, Sasanka Sekliar, bsc 
Bhowmiok, Syamapada, MSc . . 
®howmiuk, Sitanath, ba 
B Wmick, Sunil Kumar, ma . . 
^huyan, Nirmalendu, uoom 
j^vvas, Ajit Kumar, ba 
biswaH, Amritalal, Boom 
b'swas, Anil Baran, Boom 

Arunodaya, ma(ooiu) 

Wwafl » Aaoke Kumar, ba 

Bhupati Ranjan, 

Ma (com) 


66 

Style or calling. 

Chemist, West Bengal Public Health Laboratory . . 
U D Clerk, D A«G, P & T Office 
U D C, I T office, W B Dt. 1(1) 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Head Asstt., Geological Survey of India 
U I) Asstt, Dept of Agriculture & Food Production, 
W Bengal 

U I) C, D A G, P & T 
U D C, 1) A G, P & T 
U D C, I) A G, P & T 
Clerk, Burmah Shell O S & D Co, Ltd 
Clerk, Burmah Shell O S & I> Co, Ltd 
Auditor, A G W B 

U D C, 1) A G, P & T 

Clerk, State Bank of India 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Accountant, D A G, P A T. . 

IT T) Clerk, D A-O, P & T Office 
U D C, State Trading Corpn. of India Ltd 

Clerk, Cal Improvement Trust 

Clerk, Jr, C E S C, Ltd 

IT 1) C, Telegraph Cheek Office 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

U D C, Telegraph Chock Office 

Asstt., (Purchase) Indian Aluminium Co. Ltd 

Asstt, Education Directorate 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

L 1) Asstt, Board of Revenue 

Head Asstt., Geological Survey of Tudia 

U l> 0, Telegraph Check Office 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

U l> C, D A G P & T 

Clerk, Burmah Shell O S & D Co, Ltd 

Auditor, A G W B 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

U DC, DAG, PAT 

Auditor, A G W B 

Auditor, A G W B 

Auditor, A G’s Office, West Bengal 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West- Bengal 

S G Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West. Bengal 

Auditor, A G W B 

Auditor, A G W B 

U D Assistant, Home Dept (Political) 

Clerk (Jr), CESC Ltd 

Sr Clerk, Election Dept, Corpn of Cal 

Auditor, A G W B 

L D Asstt, Board of Revenue, West Bengal 
Inspector, C I T, Office W Bengal 


Residence or place of 
business. 

Chittaranjan Avenue. 

7 Koilaghat Street 
3 Govt Place West 
Treasury Buildings 
27 Clio wring hoe. 

Writers’ Buildings 

7 Koilaghat Street. 

7 Koilaghat Street.. 

7 Koilaghat Street.. 
Hongkong House 
Hongkong House 
Treasury Buildings 

7 Koilaghat Street. 

Queen’s Mansion 
Treasury Buildings 

Treasury Buildings 

7 Koilaghat. Street. 

7, Koilaghat. Street 

32 Dalliousie Saqure 
South 

10, Netaji SuhhaH Road 
Victoria House 

33 Dalliousie Square. 

8 Council House Street 
Treasury Buildings 

7 Koilaghat Street. 

31 Chowringhoe Road. 

Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
27 Chowringhce. 

7 Koilaghat Street. 
Treasury Bu i IdingH 
7 Koilaghat Street. 
Hongkong House 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Street. 

Treasury Bui IdingH 

Treasury Buih lings 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
33 Dalliousie Square. 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
Victoria House 
5 S N Banerjee Rd 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
3 Govt Place West 



No* 

486 

487 

488 

489 

490 

491 

492 

493 
4i)4 

495 

496 

497 

498 

499 

500 

501 

502 

503 


504 

505 

506 

507 

508 

509 

510 
51 1 

512 

513 

514 

515 

516 

517 
5 1 S 

519 

520 

521 

522 

523 

524 

525 

526 

527 

528 

529 

530 

531 

532 

533 

534 

535 

536 

537 

538 

539 

540 

541 
642 


Nunes* 

Biswas, Bibhuti Bhusan, ba 
B iswas, Bimalendu, BA 
Biswas, Binode Behari, BA 
Biswas, Bipradas, BSC 

Biswas, Bireswar, ba 
Biswas, Bishnu Pada, Bsc 
Biswas, Biswanath, bsc 
Biswas, Oliittaranjan, bsc 
Biswas, T)eb Kumar, MCOM 
Biswas, Durges Narayan, Boom 
Biswas Girish Chandra, Boom 
Biswas, Gourpada, Boom 
Biswas, Harondra. Nath, ba 
B iswas, TIemondra Kumar, bsc 
Biswas Himanshu Kumar, bsc . . 
Biswas, Hrishikesh, bsc 
Biswas, Jadab Chandra, ba 
B iswas, J. K, ncom 

Biswas, J N, ba 

BiswaH, Jadunatli, ba 
B iswas, Jibau Kumar, BSC 

Biswas, Jogosh Chandra, bsc 
Biswas, Kamala Kanta, ba 
Biswas, Lakshin an Cli, ba 
B iswas, Maui Kanta, BA 
Biswas, Mon moth Nath, bsc 
Biswas, Mihir Kanti, LLB 
Biswas, N C, Boom 
Biswas, Nalin Kumar, MABT 
Biswas, Nirmal Kumar, Boom 

Biswas, Panchanan, ma 
Biswas, Phatik Ch, BA . . 

Biswas Prakash Chandra, Boom 
Biswas Pramodo Uanjan, ha 

Biswas, Pro vat Kr, ucom 
Biswas, Kahindra Nath 

Biswas, Rabindra Nath, ba, t.lb 
Biswas, Raj Kumar, bso 
Biswas, Rampada, ba 
Biswas, Ran jit Kumar, bsc 
Biswas, Rasa ran j an, BA 
Biswas, San tosh Kumar, bso 
Biswas, Santosh Kumar, ma, bt 
Biswas, Sarat Ch, BCOM 
Biswas, Saroj Kumar, ba 
B iswas, Srinath, ba 
Biswas, Subhendu, BSC 
Biswas, Budarsan Chandra, bsc 
Biswas, Sujan Bikas, MA 

Basu, Usharanjan, BCom 
Bernard, D’Souza, bsc, bcoiu 

Brahma, Purncndu, ba 
Brahmachan, Bhupcndra Krishna, 
BSO, BL, 

Brahmachari, Robati Molion, BSC 
Burman, Dilip Kuraar, bcoiu 
Burman, Sainarendra Lai, BSC , . 
Burman, Ray Radha Gobinda, 
.bso 


56 

Style or calling. 

Auditor, A G W B 

U D C, I T Office, Dt V(l) .. 

IJ I) C, Telegraph Check Office 
Ins, I T Office . . 

Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 
Clerk, Telegraph Chock Offico 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Auditor, A G W B 

U 11 C, Off! Trustee & Adm Gonl of West Bengal . . 
Asstt, Requisition Br, Land & Land Rev Dept 
Auditor, A G W B 
Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A-G’s Office 
Auditor, A G W B 
Auditor, A G W B 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, A C 1 
U. D. Asstt, Commerce and Industries Dept 
Asstt, Imperial Chemical industries (India) 
(Private) Ltd 

Clerk, B C E S C, Ltd 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
17 DO.DAGP&T 
IJD Asstt, Medical Br. Health Doptt 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
S G O, D A-G, P & T Office 
ltd Clerk, I T Offico 
Auditor, A-G’s Office 

IT 1)C, I) AGP&T 
U D Clerk, Tea Board 

Asstt Master, Scottish Church Collegiate School 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Inspector, C I T, W Bengal 
Jr Aectt, E Rly 
Auditor, A G W B 
Auditor, A G W B 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Asstt, Directorate of Agriculture 

Asstt, Local-Self Govt Dept 
U D Clerk, Iron & Steel Control 
IT T) C, 0 1 T, W 7 Bengal 
Dy Asstt Valuer, Improvement Trust 
U DC, DAGP&T 
( Uerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 
’Poacher, Scottish Church Collegiate School 
IT D C, L) A G P & T 
Clerk, Grade IT, Reserve Bank of Tndia 
Auditor, A G W B 
U D 0, Telegraph Check Office 
Auditor, A G W B 

I) A Marketing Officer, Agricultural Marketing, 
West Bengal. 

Clerk Gr II, Reserve Bank of Tndia 
Asst, Lovelock & Lewes 

Auditor, A G W B 
(3erk, A, C E S C, Ltd 

UDC, DAGP&T 

Aduitor, A G W B 

Office Supdt, C P O’b Oflioe, E Rly 

Auditor, A G W B 


or plaoe ^ 
business. 

Treasury Buildings 
3 Govt. Place, West 
33 Dalhousie SijQapo 
3 Govt Place, West. 
33, Dalhousie Squirt 

33, Dalhousie Square 

7, Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buiidings 

1 Hastings Street . 
Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 

8, Council House 8t?w 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Bl tunings 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers' Buildings 

34, Chowringhee 

Victoria House 

Treasury Building 
7 Koilaghat St root . 
Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 

7, Koilaghat Street 
P-7 Chowringboc Sqna 
Treasury Buildings 

7 Koilaghat Street 
27 & 29, Brahe u rue ll*>: 
73 Cornwallis Street 

8, Council House Strec 
3 , Govt Place West 
Eastern Rulwiy lien. 
Treasury Building** 
Treasury Building- 

Treasury Building* 
Writers’ Buildings 

Writers’ Buildings 
33. Netaji Sublm* Row! 

3, Govt Place West 
10, Netaji Sublets 1<<« 

7 Koilaghat Street. 

8, Council House 
73, Cornwall in Slns't 
7 Koilaghat Street. 

8, Council House Stn< 
Treasury Building* 

33 Dalhousie Kqim™- 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings- 

8, Council* I 

4, Lyons Range 
Treasury Buildup 

Victoria House 

7 Koilagi.at SHo«‘ 
Treasury BuiM'"** 

17 Netaji SuW* 8 
Treasury Build' 0 * 8 



.Names. 

»o* 

c 

I* Chakraborty, Abanindra N, BA . . 
^ Chakravarti, Ajit Kumar, use 
^ Chakraborty, Ajit Kumar, BSc . . 

Chakravarty Ajit Kanjan, ma 
^ Chakraborty, Amal Kumar, BCOM, 

^ Chakravarti, Amar Nath. neom 
Chakravarti, Amalananda, ma . . 

,0 Chakravarti, Amarendra Nath, 
Mcom. 

,1 Cliakrabarty, Amulya Bhusan, 

MA 

;•> Chakravarti, Ananga Kumar, ha 
chakravarti, Anil Chandra, ma . . 

4 Chakrabarty, Anil Kumar, ha . . 

- Chakravarti, Anukul Chandra, ha 
,i; Ch:»kravarti, Artiu Mohon, ha 

- Club raborty, A till Chandra, BSe 
Chakravarti, Basudeb, Heom 

,.| Ciiakravarti, Benny Bhusan, ha 
in Chakravarti, Benov Kr„ ma 
il Chakravarti, Bhabani Prosad, 
use 

;j Chakraborty, Bhabani Prosad, BSe 
;;; Chakravarti, Buddhajiban. ua. . . 

;} Ch.iki'abort y, Bibhuti Bli, BCOM 
i kakra varti, Bibhuti Bhusan, ha 
,t, Chakrabarty Bimal Chandra, 
iicoin 

17 Chakraborty, Bimalendu, BA, BL 
is Chakrabarty, Birondra Nath, ha 
i'i (Chakravarti, Biiimdranath, No. 2, 
Tifiinii 

in Cliakrabarty, Biswanath, ha 
*1 Chakraborty , Biswanath, BA 
-l! Chakraborty, Bivash, BA 
*•» Chakravarti, Brojogopal, BA 
• 4 Chakravarti, Cdiittaranjan, Boom 
i *» Chakravarti, Chittaranjan, ma 
C hakravarti, Dehaprasad, ha . . 
o Chal raborty, I>ili}> Kumar. “MA . . 

,s Chakraborty, Dinendra Nath, BSe 
^ Chakraborty, Dines! i Oh., MA 
^ Chakrabarty, Ganeshlal, ha 
s ' Chakravarti, Copal Krishna, BSc 
^ Ciiak raborty, Gopinarain, BA 
s,i Chakravarti, Guru 3V, Boom 
S * Cliakraborty, Haradhan, MA 
^ Chakravarti, Himangshu Lai, ma 

Chakravarti, Himansu Kumar, 
fi A (Hons) 

Chakraborty, Hitanshu Lai, 1VIA 
^ Chakravarti, Jiban Krishna, ma 

ru . 

^nakravarti, Jibananda, BA 
Chakrabarty, Jibendra Kr., ha 
jr Chakravarti, Jyoti Bhusan, ba . . 

■ Chakravarti, Jyotirmoy, ma . . 


57 

Style or calling. 


IT D C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, T C I 
U I) 0, Education Dept. 

U D Asstt. Home (Political), West Bengal 
Asstt., Commerce and Industries Dept. 

Clerk, Shaw Wallaoe & Co, Ltd 
Supdt, A.-G’s., Olliee West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Olliee, 1 G 11, West Bengal 

Inspector, I T office, W B 

Clerk. Williamson Magor &. Co 
Acett, AGs Office, West Bengal 
V 1> C, 1 T office, W B 
Auditor, A G\s Office, West. Bengal 
Auditor, A G’s Office, West Bengal 
Asstt., Commerce and Industries Dept. 
Asstt., Land Reforms Branch 
Assistant, Kinance Department 
Auditor, Standard Vacuum Oil Co, Ltd 
Asstt., Land Acquisition Brunch 

Asstt, Olliee of 1 T O, SIB 
Auditor, A.-G.’s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, B, C ESC Ltd. 

Auditor, A. -G’s Olliee. West Bengal 
Auditor, A G VV B 

Jr. Asstt-., Board of Secondary Education 

IJ l> C, I T office, W B 

Clerk, Grade* T, Reseiwe Bank of India 

Auditor, A G W B 

IT 1) C, 1) A G, P & T 

Auditor, A. G *s Office, West Bengal 

U. D. Clerk, D. A.-G. ; P. & T. Olliee . . 

Auditor, A G’s Office, West Bengal 

Auditor, A.-G.’s Office, West Bengal . . 

Auditor, A G \s Office, West Bengal 

IT D C, 1) A G, P & T 

U I) Asstt, Medical Br., "Health Dept. 

S. G. Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 
Hd Cl, I T office, W B 
(Jerk, Gr TT ; Reserve Bank of India 
IT DC, DAG, P&T 
(Jerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt , Office of IT O, SIB 
Auditor, A G’s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 

Asstt, I T Office 

Auditor, A G s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
U D C, I T office, W B 
Asstt, Judicial Deptt, West Bengal 

Auditor, A G’s Office, West Bengal 


Residence or place of 
business. 


. . 33 Dalhousie Square. 

Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings. 

. . Writers* Buildings 
Writ ei s’ Buildings. 

• • 4, Bankshall Street. 

Treasury Buildings 
. . Treasury Buildings 

4, Hastings Street. 

. . 4, Mangoe Lane 

. . Treasury Buildings 

P-7, Chowruighco Squat* 
.. Treasury Buildings 
. . Treasury Btiihjmgs 
Writers’ Bui Id in g.N . 
Writers’ Buildings 
.. Writers’ Buildings 
<». Church I juiic 
W riters’ Buildings 

P-7 ( -liowringhee Squar 
Treasury Buildings 
Victoria House. 

. . Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 

77/2 Park Street. 

4, Hastings Street 
K, Council House Street 

. . Treasury Buildings 
. . 7 Koilaghat .Street . 

Treasury Buildings. 

7, Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 

. . Treasury Buildings 
. . Treasury Buildings 
. . 7 Koilaghat. Stiv^ct. 

Writers’ Buildings. 

33 Dalhousie Square. 

. . 3, Govt Place West 

ty Council House Street. 
7 Koilaghat Street. 

8, Council House Street 
P-7 Chowringhoe Square 

. . Treasury Buildings 

8, Council House Street 

P-13 Chowringhoe (Square 
. . Treasury Buildings 

. . 8, Council House Street 

P 7, ; Chowringhoe Ncjuar. 
.. Writers’ Building* 

Treasury Building* 



No. 


593 

594 

595 
590 

597 

598 

599 
000 

001 

002 


003 
00 1 
005 
000 
007 
OOS 

009 

010 
0) I 


012 

013 

0 1 4 

015 
010 

017 
01 S 

019 

020 
02 1 
022 

023 

0)24 

025 

020 

027 


028 

029 

030 

031 

032 

033 

034 

035 
030 
637 
038 


039 

040 

041 

042 

043 


644 

645 

646 

647 


Names. 


Chakravarti, Jyotirmoy, bsc 
Chakravarti, Kalidas, Boom 
Chakravarti, K L, ma, bcoxh 
C hakmvarti, Kodaivswar, HCom 
Cliakravarty, Koshablal, it a 
C hakraborty, Kunt-al, BA . . 
ChakravarM, Lalit. Mohan, itA . . 
Chakravarti, Manmura Kumar, 

BOOTH 

Chakraborty, Man ju Copal, BA 
Cliakravarty, Manmotlia Bhusan, 
ItA 

Cliakravarty, Mihirranjan, ha 
C liakravarty, Naresli Chandra. 

( Miakravarty, Nareshxvar, itrom 
Chakraborty, Nopal Ch, BA 
Chakrax arti, Niranjan, wont 
Chakravarti, Nirendralal, itooin. 

( Miakravarty, Nirmaleiidu, msc - . 

( Miakra bort y , Nit x a ( iopal, BC<)M 
Chakravarti, Nnpendra Kumar, 

ItA 

Chakravarti, Nripendia N, it a 
C hakraborty, Babitra. K r, BOOM 
Chakraborty, Babitra Kumar, BA 
Chakru varti, Buresh (Mi, itoonj . . 
Chakravarti, Paresli Chandra, 

MA 

Chakravarti, Barimal Kumar 
( Miakraborty, Vhanindra Ball, BA 
Chakraborty, Probodh Ranjan, BA 
( Miukmvarti, Pramatha N, ItA 
Chakravartv, Bran Kumar. ItA .. 

( IhaJxi'ax artty, Prithxvis (Ml, use 

Chakravarti, Prosanta Kr 
Chakrabort v, Bulin Behari, BA . . 
Chakravarti, Pumialal, use, itcom 
Chakravarti, Rabindra (Mi, itA 
Chakraborty, Rabindra Nath, 
MCOM 

Chakra, varti, Raniendra Ch, ba 
(M iakraborty, Ramendra Nath, MA 

Chakravarti, RatisJi Chandra, itA 
Chakravarti, S. t ma. 

Chakravarti, Sachindra Nath, MA 
Chakraborty, Sachindra. Mohan. 

BA 

Chakraborty, Sailendra. Mohan, 

BA 

Chakravarti, Sarnit K, use 
Chakravarti, Santipada, uoom . . 
Chakraborty, Santosh Kumar, BA 
Cliakravarty, Satyendra Nath, 

BSC 

Cliakravarty, Satyaranjan, BCom 

Chakravarti, ttishu Gopal, ma 

Chakraborty, Shamalondu, BA . . 

(Miakraborty, Si sir Kumar, BCOM 

Chakrav artty, Snohangsu Mohan, 
BCom 

Cliakravart-i, Suhas, ma 
Chakravarti, Subodh K, ba 
Chakravarti, Subodh Ranjan, ba 
Okakravarty, Sudhendu, bso 


68 

Style or oalling. 


Assistant, Calcutta Improvoment Trust 
Inspector I T Office W. B. 

Asstt Snpdt, Tea Board 
Asstt, Lovelock & Bowes 
lns]>ector, Election I)e]>t, Corjm of Cal 
Auditor, A G ’s Office, West Bengal 
IT 1). Clerk, 1) A-G, B & T Ollier 
Auditor, A-G’s office, West Bengal 

17 1) C, I) A O B & . T 

Auditor, A-G's Office, West Bengal 

Auditor, A G W B 

Stay, Airwaj's Ktd 

Auditor, A G B W 

II I) Asstt, Home (Bass port) l>ep 

Auditor, A G\s office, West. Bengal 

E 1) Assistant, Ofiice of the Board of Revenue 

Auditor, A G W B 
II 1) (!, Telrgra/h Check Office 

Assistant, Bengal National Chamber of Commerce 
and Industry 

Clerk. Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
II DC, Telegraph Chock Olfico 
Asstt-, W B Broviucial Co-op Bank Ltd 
IT 1) Asstt, Board of Revenue, West Bengal 
Head Clerk, State Bank of India 

B. W. Inspector, K G 1), Bort Commissioners Office 
Asstt, Octax ins Steel & (V), Ltd 
Supvr, I T Office 
II I) Clerk, I) A-G, B & T Office 
( Merk , 1 C 1 India, Ltd 

U 1> Asstt, Dept of Agriculture iK: Bond Broduction, 
W Bengal 

Auditor, A-G's office, West Bengal 
Ins, I T Office .. 

Accountant, A-G's office. West Bengal 
(Merk, A C E, S C, Ltd 
( Merk , E RJy 

Clerk, Cr II, Reserve Bank of India. 

Asstt., Home (G A) Dept 

(Merk Conimmissioner of Excise Office 

U D Clerk, Tea Board 

Staff Asstt, Reserve Bank of India 

J)ist Organiser, National Savings Organisation 

Hd Clerk, R G Dept Commissioner’s Office, Presi- 
dency Division, Wost Bengal. 

Audit (Merk, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 

Supdt , Reserve Bank of India • . 

Asstt, Office of I T O. S I B 
T T D (Merk, D A-G, P &. T Otfice 

Auditor, A G W B 
Auditor, A-G’s Otfice, West Bengal 
U T) C. 1) A G P & T 
U 1) C, Telegraph Check Otfice 
U 1) Asstt, Medical & Publics Health Deptt 

U T) Clerk, Telegraph Cheek Office 
Sales Tax, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Acctt, D A-G, P & T uffico 

Auditor, A G W B . * » 


Residence or pl aoe ^ 
business. 

10, Netaji Subha* p w0| 

3, Govt Place, \V«xst 
27 and 29, BrahournO 

4, Lyons Range 

5, SN Banerjcc )[ ( \ 
Treasury Building. 

7, Koilaglmt Street 
Treasury Building 

7 Koilaghat St reet . 
Treasury Buildups 

Tearsury Building 
1 , Hastings St. 
Treasury Building 
1 1 A Erne School Sti.* 
Treasury Bnildmi> 
Writers’ Building 
Treasury Building 
33 I )alhousi«* Sijimn 
1*- 1 1 , Mission iUiw 
Extension 

8, Council House 8tr,. e 
33 1 )lllllO|lsle St|U.Ur. 
16 Oi( I ( U mi t JT 1 1 »u -*■ 

Writers' Bui Id mil's 
Q ueens Mansions 

15. Strand Road. 

I 1 Ol 1 ( '< mrt T I on* V 
I *-7 ( Mu *x\ , riML'li | ■■ • ^ pi i 

7, Koilaghat St nvt 
34, Ohowrmghcc 

Writer’s’ Buildim r - 

Trc ms ill \ BmldiPp 
3 Govt Bl id* Wc i 
Tieasmv 1 >i 1 1 1< ii n« r - 
Victoria IIoiiMt 
Eastern Kailw a' 11' 11 

8, Council IIoim 
W r r iters' Budding 

Writers’ Buildup 
27 A 29 Bi.dx>urn«' Ik 

8, (bum d 1 1 "i: ’• M 1 ' 
liindust han I »u i h 1 iug" 

II Nc-laji SiiMii" lt " 

154, (iil I mi ' I 1 """ 

5, CouiK'il li" 11 " S "" 

P-7 Clio" 

7, Koil'if-'l 1,1 ’ 

Treasury V.iuMin^ 

Treasury I"" 1 ' 11 "-" 

7 Koilaghat Su-t-* 1 - 
33 Dalhousi' S f l u ‘ r ' 
Writers’ Buil' lin '' 
33, JJa] h< aisa J » W’ 

6, Church L^ 11 ^ 

7, Koi la ghat 
Treasury Bid* 



69 


Names. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


; Chakravarti, Sunil Kanto, bsc . . 

i Ohakrabortv, Sunil Kumar, MA 

BL 

, Cliakraborl-y, Sunil Ki\, BA 

I (Miakravarti, Sunil Kumar, BCOM 
, (Mrikravarti, Sunil Kumar, ma . . 

7 (Miakravarti, Sunil Kumar, BSC, 
BT 

t Ohakravarti, Sushi 1 Kumar, B(!om 
- (Miakraborty, Susliil Kumar, MA 
■ (’iiakravarti, Susliil Ch, bo 0111 
7 (Miukravarty, Susliil K, ba 

s (Mmkravnrty, Surondra, MA 
,, ( 'kaiida, Ashis, BA 

ii Oiuuda, Beimy Krishna, BA 

1 Chanda, Parainesli Chandra, ba. . 

■j Chanda, It K, BA . . 

;; ( Mu m dra. Bhupati Mohan, noom 
I Chandra, Bimalananda, BCOM 
Chanda, Birnale-uelu Narayan, 
MA 

i; Chanda. Peary Mohan, Bcom 

7 Chanda, Ramosh Kr, lK’om 
s (’lianda, Subbas Kr., BA 
,•» Chanda. Kav, Raman La, Moluin 
MKC, BT 

'ii Chandra, Nritva Geipal, bsc 
I Chandra, Sailcnelra Sekhar, bs 
J Chatte-rjee. Abani Kumar, BA 

( ’hat terjee, Aditya Itanjan, MCOM 
[ Chatterjev. A.joV Kr., BA 
M ( 'hat terj<*e, Amarendra N., AKS( ^ 
Chatte*,rji,Amar Kumar, ma 
"7 (Jhatterjoo, Amal Cham Ira BA 
Chatter je*e, Amur Krishna, ma 
(com) 

71* (’hat terjee, Amiya, Kumar, BA . . 

s,) (Mint terjee, Amiya Bhusan, use 
'I Chat tvrje*o, Anath Band liu, BA .. 
CliaUerji, Anil, ba 

^ Fhutterjee, Anil Kumar BA, BT. . 

V 1 Chat terji, Arun Kr, BOom 

CluiUorji, Arun Kumar, ba(Hou) 

,V) Ohaltorji, Ashim Kumar, ucom . . 

! v Chatterji, Barid Baran, ba 
^ Chill terjei*, Baladev, BA(ll) 

Chat terji , Ban ip ada, m \ 

11 1 Chat tcrji, Benoy Bhusan, ba 
^ Chattoiji^ Jhuiov Bh. ba 
C hatlorjoo, Bhudev, MSC 
| { hat leTjee*, Blmpendra, Nath, MA 

1 liaterjeo, Bimal Krishna, ba 


Auditor, A G\s office, West Bengal 
Asstt, Octavious Steel & Co 

Clerk, E Illy 

Ins, T T Office 
Asstt, Pi nance Drptt 

c D c, r> a g p & t 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Inspector, I T Oftice 
C 1) Clerk, 1) A-G, P & T olliee 
G I) Clerk, 1) A-G, P & T Olliee 

G D C, I) A G V & T 
U I) Asstt, AG s of] ice. West. Bengal 

U 1) G, 1> A ( J P & T 
Auditor, A CPs olliee. West Bengal 
Asstt.. I C 1 (India.) , Ltd 

Clerk, Burma, Slu*Il O. S. & 1>. Ce»., Ltd 

IT |) C, Telegraph Cheek Olliee 

I’D Asstt, Home (Social Wollare) Dept 

(Merk, Or II, Reserve*. Bank oi India. 

Dv Acett, Stationery Office 

CD C, I) A G P & T 

Asstt Master, Scottish (Mmreh Collegia 

Clerk, Grille Hays Bank Ltd 
Auditor, A G, W B 

Securily (Merk, Central Bank of India 
Branch) 

Auditor, A G Bengal 
GDC, TT Office 
Teacher, Mitra Institution 
U D Clerk, 1) A-G, P & T office 
Ins, 1 T Office 

A F S O, F S Dept, Corpn of Cal 


Treasury Buildings 

14 Old Court House 
St reet 

Eastern Railway 

House 

II ( Jovl Place* W e st 
Writers’ Bmldiuirs 
7 Koilagliat Sliced 

8, Council House Street 
II ( Io\ t I Mn.ee* W est 
7, Koilaglmt Street. 

7, Koilagliat Street 

7 Koilagliat. St re*et 
MYeasurv I hiildmus 
7 Koilagliat Street 
MYeasurv Buildings 

II L ( ’how rimrhee 

Hongkong House 
Mil I )a Ihousie* Spun r<* 
Writ er s ’ Jim Id mgs 

S, Council House Street 

II, Chureh Lane 
7 Koilagliat Srteet 
e* School . . 711 Cornu all is Stive*!. 

0, (Mmreh Lane 
Tre -usury Buildings 
(New Marked. 10 Lindsay St i eel 

MY< ‘iisury liuildmgs 
P-S Brahourne Load 
(hi- 1 1 Surya Sen Slie*e*t 
7, Koilagliat Street, 

S Brahourne Road 
5 S N Banerjee Pel 


Dist Organise*!-, National Savings organisation, 
West Bengal 
Auditor, A (1, W B 
Auditoi , A G Bengal 

Stenographer, Caledonian Insurance Co 
Asstt. r l Vae* her, Shyamhazar Yidyasagar School 

II D Clerk, J) A-G, P & T officer 
Reader, 11 MYansla tor’s offiee, W B 
Clerk, Grade* II, Reserve Bank of India 
U D G, Stationcy Office 

G DC, MVle*gra ph Cheek Office* . • 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, We*st Bengal 

File (Merk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 

Cle fh, Gl I, Re M l\e Bank e»f India 
1 )e»monst rat or, St Paul s Cath**dral Mission College* 
GDC D A G P «V T 
Auditor, A G, W B 


TImelustJian Buildings 

Treasury Buildings 
Tre>a,sury ilmldmgs 
B-3, ( Mive Buildings 
(>S l>hupe*ii<lra. Bose 
Av e*nue* 

7. Kealaghat St reied 
Write rs’ Builelings 

8, Council House Street 

3, Church Lane 
33 1 )a,lhousic Sepiiire 
MMvasury liuildmgs 
b, Chure h Lane 
S, (‘oune-il Hou: <* St re e;t 
33 1 A m hci e*st Slreeit 
7 KMihigh.it Sfje«d 

MMe*asur\ Buildings 


1 hattorjee, Birmin . . Asstt Shaw Wallace & (’o Ltd 

^ Uiattcrji, Chandi Prosad, BCom Clerk, Harrisons & Canslield, Ltd 
r hattorji,Chinmoy, uoom . . Cleirk, W T illiamson IMagor & Co 
^ S ^hutterj i, Hebdas, BCe^m . . Clerk, Burma Shell O S & T) Co, Ltd 

khattorji, Dilip K, Boom . . Clerk, Or II, Reserve Bank of India 

; () ] ^Mtcrjeo, Dilip Kumar, MA . . Asstt, University of Calcutta 
U (i) “ a tterji, Durgadae, bsc, bcoid Sr Aiistt, Bourn of Secondary Education 
L ^‘dtorji, Girindranath, ba . . Auditor, A G’s office, West Bengal 
Chatterjee, Gobinda Ch. BSC . . U D C, Telegraph Check Office 


4 Bankshall Stive! 
f>, (Mmreh Lane* 

4, Mangoe; Lane 

Hongkong House 
8, Council House Street 

Senate House* 

77/2, Park Street 
Treasury Bui Mings 
33 Palhoiisie Square 



Names* 


00 

Style or calling* 


Residence or pl aoe 
business. 


No. 


704 

705 

700 

707 

70S 

700 

710 

711 

712 


Ghatterji, Gour Kinkar, ma 
C hatterji, llemanto Kumar, ba, 
Room 

Chatter ji, Tlireudraiiath, use 
Chat terjee, Ttrishikesh, 15 L 
Chatterji, Indu Bhusan, nrom . . 

Chatterjee, , 1 ., BA 
Chatterji, Jagadiswar, ma 

Chatterji, .Tagannath Prosad, 
itcom 

Chatterjee, Jag nos war Supra, 

BA 


Asstt Master, Scottish Church School 
U. D. 0. Telegra]>h Check Office 

Auditor, A G’s office. West Bengal 
S 0 0, I) A G P & T 

Clerk, B I Acts Dept, Maekimion Mackenzie 
Private Co 

Asstt, A celts Dept, Indian Aluminium Co Did 
Asstt Teacher, Mitra Institution 
Clerk, TCI (India), Ltd 

U 1) C , I T Office 


73, Cornwallis Street 
33, Dalhousie 

Treasury Buildup 
7 Koilaghat Stiver 
10, Strand Road 

31 Chowringh^. |* ( j 
GOB, Surja Sen Si nH 
34, Chowririghcc 

4 Hastings Nthrt 


713 Ghatterji, Jam ini Kumar, b.sc . . 

714 ( Shatter jee, Jamini Mohan, BSC . 

715 ( Ihat terjee, Janaranjan, BA 

710 Chatter ji, Jatindra Nath, use .. 
717 Chatterji, Ji I, ondra N, hns 
71s Chatterji, Jnanaiianda, licom 
710 Chatterji, Jyotish Ch, ba 

720 Chatterjee, Kalidas, ma, bl 

721 Charterji, Ka-makshva P, Bse 

722 Chatterjee, Kamalesh, BA 

723 Ghatterji, Kamal Kumar, ba 

724 Chatterjoo, Kashinath, BSC 

7 23 Ghatterji, Kesliah Chandra, BCom 
7 20 Ghatterji, Krishna Behari, ma,Bt 

727 ( Iia-t terjee, Kumarish Ch., BA 

725 Ghatterji, Mud. in Mohan, MA 
720 Ghatterji. Madan Mohan, Boom 

730 Clmtterji, Makhanlal, Boom 

731 (/hat terjee, Man joogopal, BSC 

732 Chat terjee, Mohit Mohan, BSC .. 

733 Chatterji, Monorail jan, use 

734 Clmtterjce, Monoranjan, ba 

735 Chatterji, Mukul. ma 

730 ( /Jiat terjee. Mukul Ranjan, BSC 

737 Chatterji, Nandadulal, ba 

73S Ghatterji, Narendra Nath, ba 
730 Chat terjee, Neinai Bat an, BA 
710 Chatterjee, Xi Karan Chandra, MA 

741 Chat terjee, Nirmal Kant i, BCOM 

742 Chatterjee, Nirmal Kanti, Bsr 

743 Chat terjiM*, Nr i fiend ra. Nath, BSC 
741 Chatterjee, Onkarnath, Mootn 

745 ("hat terjee, Prakash Ch, ma (scon) 
740 ( -hat terjee, Prakash K., MSG 

747 Ghatterji, Prafulla Kumar, ba . . 


U I) Clerk, D A G, 1> & T Office 

LI 1) Asstt, Dept of Agriculture & Production 
Bengal 

1 T D C, 1) A 0 P & T 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
IJ D Clerk, 1) A-G, P A T Office 
Asstt. Clerk, Income Tax Office 
Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 
S G C, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
IT 1) CM) A G V A T 
Auditor, A-G\s Office, West Bengal 
Asstt Mast (‘r, Hindu School 


. . 7, Koilaghat Street 

, West Writers’ Building 

7 Koilaghat Snvct 
. . 8, Council 1 Loi.se Mtree 

S, ( 'Oinieil Ho,, s, o f 

S, Council House Slur 
7, Koilaghat Sin vi 
P-7, Chownn-ihr' 1 Srjin 
. . S, Council ILoiisr Slrii! 

32 Dalli OHM SljUj 
South 

. . 8, Council House 8tm»t 

7 Koilaghat Si iv« t 
Treasury Build iiur,' 

IB, Bankim ( ’h.*i it-rji 
St 


U I) C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
U 1) ( «lork. Cont roller of Coal Accounts 
Clerk, Grade I, Reserve, Bank of India. 

Clerk, Gr 11. Rosen o Bank of India 
IT 1) 0, Telegraph Check Office 
Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 

L D Asstt, Dept of Agriculture A Food Production, 
W Bengal 
Auditor, A G, W B 

Auditor, A G s office. West Bengal 
U D C, D A (1 P A T 

If 1) Asstt, Dept of Agriculture &. Food Production, 
W Bengal 

Asstt, Lovelock A IjOwos 
U 1) C, l T Office 

Asstt Teacher, St Xavier's Collegiate School 

Clerk B, C E S C Ltd 

Aeett, A G, W B 

IT 1) C, 1) A G P AT 

Inspector, I T office, W B 

Inspector, 1 T office, W B 

Demonos, Siircndra Nath College 

Asst, Ministry of Industry A Supply, Iron & Steel 
( octroi 


33 I >alhousie Si pia i r 
1 , Council House Stuvi 
S, Council llou^r Mart 
8. fouiu il II, him- Start 
33 Dalhousie Stjuate 
77/2 Park Street 
Writers' Building 

Treasui \ Bui M nnt'' 
Treason i kidding 
7 Koilagh.it Street 
Writers’ Buildings 

4, Lyons Ran tie 
P-S Brahoune- Kmul 
30 Park Si i eel 
Victoria House 
Treasury Building" 

7 Koilaghat Siiect 
3 Govt Place \h ,s t 
3 Govt Place Wed 
21-2 Mnhaini.i l»& n ' 
Road , 

33, Nc taji Suhlii^ lk)ad 


74S ( 'hntterjee, Pritiranjan, unmi 

740 Chatterji, I*ronoh Kumar, nrom 

750 Ghatterji, Pronob Nath, ba 

751 Chatterjee, Proteep Kumar, Bcom 

752 Chatterji, R N, ma 

753 Chatterji Rabindra Nath, ma, . . 
751 Chatterji, Ratilia Kanta, Boom 

755 Chatterji, llajib Lochan, Boom 

756 Chatterji, Rakhahari, Bcom 

757 Chatterji, Rama Prasad, ba 

758 Chatterjee, Ranjit Kumar, BSC. . 


U D C, I T office, W 15 
Clerk, Hongkong A Shanghai Bank 
l T . D. C. Telegraph Check Office 
Asstt, Lovelock & Lowes 
U D Clerk, Tea Board 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, Grade 1, Reserve Bank of India . , 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
U. D. Asstt, Education Directorate 
Head Asstt, Geological Survey of India 
Chemist, West Bengal Public Health Laby 


.. 3 Govt. Place W*"* 1 

. . 31, DalhmiM* S«iuarr 

. . 33, Dalhousie Square 

. . 4, Lyons Kang* 1 

27 and 29, IJraboun 
Road 

... Treasury 15 ml <lin- s ^ 
8, Councn Huiim* 

. . 8, Council Hoik*? ^ 

. . Writers’ Building 
. . 27 , Chowriii^hee 

. . Chittaranjan A^nae 



Names. 


61 




Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


M ("hatter joe, Sailcndra Nath, use 
( , ffimttorji, Sailendra Natli, use . . 

1 (’hat terjee. Sailesh Chandra, BA. . 
, ( "hatter jec, Saktipada, ma 

(’hatterji, Sambhunath, bsc 
4 Phaudhuri, Sana! Kumar, BA(H) 

- (’hatterji, Sanat Kumar, ha 
»; Chat terjee, Sanat Kumar, BSC . . 
7 (’hatterji, Sankarlal, ba 

s Chatter ji, Santi Ram, ma 
chuttorji, Saroj Kumar, bsc 

it (’hat terjee, Satyabrata, BA 
j (.’hatterji, Satya Ranjan, ba 

2 (’hatterji, Shyamtosh, bsc 

;{ Chat ter jets Sital Prosad, BA 
4 (’hatterji, Sitangsliu Dob, Boom 
(’hatterji, Subrata. ma 
i; Chat terjee, Siulhir (Chandra, ba 
; ("hal terjee, Sunil Chandra, BCom 
Chati-erji, Sunil Darsan, ba 
i (’hatterj<*e, Sunil Kr., BA 
i (’hatterji, Sunil Kumar, bsc 
| Ciiat terji, Tara Sankar, ba 
J (’ha.t tcijec. Topcitdra Kr., BA 
! ( ’hat terjee, l hlay Shankar, BSC . . 

I Chaudhuri, Aditya Kumar, ba . . 

» Chaudhuri, Ajit Ranjan, Boom . . 

> I’hamlhury, Amal Chandra, mho 

Chain lluiri, Amarendra. Kr., 
M< 'OM 

' Chaudhuri, Amritlal, BA 

* ('haiidhury, Amuly Chandra, use 
1 t’haudhury, Anadi Prosad, ba 

l < iiaudhuri, Ardhendu, BSC 
nuitterj«*e, Arnnananda, BSC 
1 ('lioudhuri, Arun Kumar, ba 
t t ’Iiaudhuri, Arun Kumar, ba 
f ('Iiaudhuri, Asoke Kumar, bsc, 
Mfom 

*■' ( liaudhuri, Bhabesh Ch., BA 

* ( iiaudhuri, Bhanujyoti, ba 

^ ^ Iiaudhuri, Bibhas, ma 
^ ' lieudhuri, Bihhuti Bhusan, BA. . 

( 'Iiaudhuri, Birendra Nath, BA, 
LbB 

^Iiaudhuri, Biswajit, bsc 
( Iiaudhuri, Chittaranjan, BA 

^ iiaudhuri, Dhiresli Chandra, 
JiCOM 

Ciaudhiri, Dipti Bhusan, ba 

* ^audlniri, Ganesh Chandra, ba 
^’Iiaudhuri, Gurupada, MCOM . . 


Auditor, A G, W B 

Clerk A, C E S C Ltd 
Sr Asst t. Board of Secondary Education 
Inspector, T T office, W B 
Aeett, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
L T) C, Directorate of Fisheries 
Supdt, Stationery Office 

V 1) C, DALP&T 
Auditor, A-U’s Office, West Bengal 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Sr Astt, Board of Secondary Education 
Supvr, 1 T Office 

IT 1) Asstt, Board of Revenue, West Bengal 
Asstt, Local Self-Government 

IT D C, Telegraph Check Office 
Clerk, Gr 11, Reserve Bank of India 

Clerk, Gr 11, Reserve Bank of India 
LUX’, 1 T office, W B 
IT J) Asstt, Education Dept 
Steno, Standard Vacuum Oil (do 

V D c, D A G P & T 

IJ 1) Asst t, Home (Special) Dcpit 
U 1) Clerk, 1) A G, P & T Office 

V 1) CM T Office 

Jr Asstt, Board of Secondary Eduont ion 
Asstt, Land Reforms Branch, Land & Land Revcm 
Dept 

Auditor, A-G\s Office, West Bengal 
Inspector, 1 T office, W B 
l T J) C, Telegraph Check Office 

V D 0,1 T Office 

Auditor, A G\s Office. West Bengal 
IT I) Clerk, Govt of India Stationery Office 
Asstt, Office of I T O SIB 
Asstt, Law (Judicial) Dept 
Clerk, Gr IF, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A-G's Office, West Bengal 
Asstt Secy (Finance), Board ol Secondary Education 

U 1) C, Govt of India Forms Dress 
Asstt, Land Reforms Branch, Land & Land Rev. 
Dept 

Auditor, A G, W B 

Asstt , Office of I T O SIB 

Ins, I T Office 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Sr Asstt. Board of Secondary Education 
Asstt, Land Acquisition Br, Land & Land Revenue 
Dept, West Bengal 
Auditor, A G, W B 
Hd Asstt, Finance Dept 
IJ D C, State Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd 


t’hattcrjee, Ilironmay, MA, BT .. 

' ^ lau, lhuri, Kalyan Kumar, BSC 
^ ^‘Hudhuri, Kalyan Prosad, MA . . 
I ^audhuri, Manindra Prosad, ba 
C hau ;ihuri, Narayan Amritamaya, 

i^’OM 

* JJ^huri, Nihar Kumar, ba . . 
i r,° Udhliri » Nisharanjan, BA 
S ^ticlhuri, Pankaj Kauti, BA. . . 


Asstt Teacher, Oriental Seminary 

U D 0, DAG P & T 
U I) C, I) A G P & T 
Clerk Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Land Revenue Br 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
V I) C, I T Office 

U D 0, Dept of Agriculture & Food Production 


Treasury Buildings 
Victoria House 
77 2 Park Street 
P-K Brabourne Bd 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers' Building 
3, Church Dine 

7 Koilaglmt Street 
Treasury Buildings 

Treasury Buildings 
77/2 Park Street 
P-S Brahourne Bond 
Writers’ Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
33 Dalhousie Square 
S,, Council House Street 
S, Council House Street 
3 Govt 1*1 ace West 
Writers’ Buildings 
f>, Church Lane 
7 Koilaglmt Street 
Writers* Buildings 
7, Koilaglmt, Street 
S Brahourne Road 
77 2 Park Street 
Writers Buildings 

Treasury Buildings 
3 Govt Place West 
33 1 )alhoiisic Square 

P-S Brabourne Road 
Treasury Buildings 
3 Church Lane 
P-7 Cliowringlico Square 
Writer, s' Buildings 

S, Council House Street 
Treasury Buildings 
77/2 Park St 

1 Temple St rind. 

Writers’ Buildngs 

Tr< *«isu ry Buil dings 
P-7 Chowringliou Square 
3 ( h»vt Place West 

Treasury Buildings 
77,2 Park Street 
Writers’ Buildings 

Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
32 Dalhousie Square 
So ut h 

330 ITpjier Chitpur 
Rd. 

7 Koilaglmt Street 
7 Koilaglmt Sifeot 
8, Council House Street 
Writers’ Buildings 

Treasury Buildings 
3 Govt Place West 
Writers* Buildings 



No. 


Names. 


815 
S If) 

si 7 

SIS 


SID 
821 I 

82 J 
822 

81*3 

SW 

825 

K2G 

S27 

Si’s 

SJD 

S3<) 

83 i 
K32 
s*>, » 
s:m 

835 


62 


Style or calling. 


Residence or ptaoeoi 
business. 


Chaudburi, Praja Ran j an, ba 
C haudburi, PraHantakuinar 
Chaudburi, Prasun, B Corn 
Chaiidhuri, Pronoy Ranjan BA, 
LLB 

Chaudhury, Prosenjit Kumar, ba 
( Miaudhuri, Purnendu Bikash, ba 
('haudhnri, Raghabinda BA (Hods) 
Chaiidhuri, Ramcndra Kishoro, 
BCOM 

Ohaudhuri, Ranendra Nath 
Chaudburi, San ir Kanta 
Chaudhury, Samir Kumar, use 
(/haudhnri, Santo, sh Kumar, use 
Ohaudhuri, Kripati Ranjan, 
MCOM 

Chaudburi, ttubodh Ch, Boom 
Ohaudhuri, Sukomal N, BA 
Ohaudhuri. Sunil Boliary, MA 
Chaudburi, Sunil Kr, bhc 
( Mumdhnri. Tara Nath, BA . . 

Ohaudhuri, Thakokrishna, BA. . . 
(Miaudhuri, Tinkari, MA 
Chidanandam, D, RA, MBA 


U D Asstt, Iron and Steel Control 
Chief Aeott, Airways India Ltd 
Inspector. I T office, W B (Range I) 

Auditor, A G Bengal 

Auditor, A-G’s Office 
Ins, I T Office 

Hd Clerk, Smoke Nuisance Directorate 
Asstt, West Bengal Provincial Co-operative Bank 
Ltd 

Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Assistant, Tala Iron & Steel Co 
Auditor, A-G’s Office 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, T K I, West Bengal 
Lns, 1 T Office 

Stall Asstt, Reserve Bank of India .. 
ltd Asstt, Geological Survey of Tudia 
Auditor, A G Bengal 
Clerk, Gr 11, Reserve Bank of India 
U ]) (Murk, Commissioner <d Excise office 
V I> C, Telegrah Cheek Office 
Auditor, A G Bengal 

Asstt, Purchase Dept., Indian Aluminium Co Ltd . . 


33, Notaji Rubhns ]{<„ 
1 , Hastings St 

3, Govt Place \\V st 
Treasury Building 

Treasury Building 
3 Govt Place AWst 
GO-B Chow ringh^. J:, t 
1G Old Com i H (J1 
St re<it 

4, Banksh all Si, 

23B, JNetaji Suhhas Ifo 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Build 

P-S Brabournc Ud 

8, Council House Stnm 
27 Chowringhei JI, U< 1 
Treasury Buildings 
8, Council Hou.sc Stre* 
Writers' Buddings 
23 Oalhousio St|ii m 
Treasury Buddings 
3 1 Chow ringiiee I Id 


D 


S3G 1 )akshi, Sa.tyendu, BSC 
S37 Oalui, San tosh Kumar, bsc 
S3S Dam, Bhabondra Narayan, ltA 
H3D Dam, Sunil Kumar, BSC 

S 4 t ) Dam (Miaudhuri, Nirmal CM), BA 

s 1 1 I >as, A jit Kr., MSC 

842 Das, A jit Kr, BSc 

S 13 1 )as, Aniulya (Miandra, Boom 

SI4 Das, Anatli Nath, BSC 

XJ5 Das, Anil (Mi.. MA, LLB 

S4G Das, Anil Kumar, BCOM 

st7 Das, Anil Kumar(l), BA 

Sts Dus, A mik ul ('handra, ba . . 

S4D Das, Asokc Kr, B Com 

K5<) Das, As w ini Kumar, ha 

551 Das, Bankim (Miandra, BA 

552 Das, Barindra Kumar, ba 
So 3 Das, Bijan Kumar, BSC 
So 4 Das, "Beni Madliab, BA 
Sf>5 Das, Bhairat Kr., BSC 
SoG Das, Bhabaranjan, BA 
857 Dus, Bhowani (Mi, bsc 

SoS Das, Bhupeiulra Nath, BSC. LLB 

Sod Das, Charupada, BA 

SGO Das, Bikash Chandra, BA 

Std lias, Chittaranjan, bsc 

SG2 Das, Dharmanarain, MA 

SG3 J )as, Gonesli Chandra, BCom 

XG4 Das, Gopal Chandra, BSc 

SGo Das, Gouranga Bchari, BA 

SGG Das, Gour Gopal, ba 

SG7 Das, J ah fur Lai, BCom 

SGS Das, Jitondra Nath, MCOM 

Slid Das, .Tyotirmoy, mom 

S70 Das, Jyotish Ch, Bcom 

87 1 Das, Kalipada, ba 

872 Das, Kaloratan, ba 

873 Das, Kalyan Kumar, MCom 

874 Das, Kamalaranjan, BA 

875 Das, Kartick Chandra, ba 
870 Das, Khagendra Nath, ba 
877 Das, Kshetra Mohan, 


Asstt, Directorate of Panehayats 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
IT D Asstt, Medical Br, Health Dept. 

U D C, State Transport Corpn of (l) Ltd 

U D C, T T office, W B 

IJ 1) C. D A G P A T 

Inspector, I T office W B 

Hd Asstt, Registrar of Co-operat i\ e Societies 

tJ DC, Telegraph Check Office 

V D C, D A G P & T 
Auditor. A G Bengal 

Sr. Asstt, Board of Secondary Edueat ion 
IT D Asstt, Co-operative Directorate 
U D Asst.t, Animal Husbandry & Veterinary 
Services. 

Clerk, Macneill and Barry, Ltd 

D A, Marketing Officer, Agricultural Marketing, 
West Bengal 

Clerk, Grade 11, Reserve Bank of India 
IT D 0, Telegraph (M)eek Office 
L D Asstt, Medical Br, Health Dept 

V D C, D A G P & T 
C 1) C, I T Office 

Auditor, A-G’s office, West Bengal 
IT l) C, D A G P & T 
Supvr, I T Office 
U DC, 1)A G P&T 

Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
TT DC, I) AGP Sc T 
Asstt, Lovnlock & Lowes 
»S A S, A G, W B 
IT D C, I T Office 
U D Clerk, T) A-G, P&T Office 
Clerk, TCI (India), Ltd 
U DC, DA (2 P S' T 
Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, (Trade I, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, ACES C, Ltd 

IJ D Asstt, Dept of Agriculture & Food Production, 
W Bengal 

Asstt, Directorate of Panehayats 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
SG C, D A-G, P&T Office 

Auditor, A-G’s Office , „ 


Writ, ers' Building'- 
Treasury Buddmir:- 
Writers’ BuiMmg> 

32 Dalhoiisie Nj'iai 
South 

3, Govt Place WVM 
7 Koilaghat Si ret 1 
3, Go\ t Place \\ cst 
New Secret :m.ii BuiMitif 
33 I )allu>usn >► * ) « i a i • 

7 Knilugiui t Si iv* 1 
Tivsusn Budding 
77 2 Part Sited 
New Se(T<‘t an.it I iuikh 
Writers’ Budd 1 1 ig" 


2, Fairlie Place 
Writers’ Buildings 


Council fhnisc Sire 
Dallioidic Stjiii'irr 
filers’ Budding 1 - 
voilagh.u Sued 
7 Chou i lngliei 1 S*jir 
jasurv Budding? 
voilaghut Mnv 1 
7 Chow i inghcc Stpfa 
voilaghat Sired 
2, Park Street 
voilaghat Stnvt 
dyoiis Range 
■'usury 1>1 ( ^ S , 

% Bra bourne B‘».ul 
voilagbnt Ktr<«* 
Chowrmgiiee 

Coilagliiii Si !•<■<■* 
louiu il lf <lU, ' e ‘ 
Council 
sasury 
•toria House 
■iters' Building* 

•iters' 

W» ui SS 

Koi, < a . n^S* 


i 





Style or calling* 


THq Kfihitidi Chandra, . . Prog Roc-rotary, All India Radio 


TXus. Makhan Lai, Bsc 
D.ts, Manindra Nath, BA 
Maiigal Kumar, BA 
]>is, Moiioranjaii, BA 
l, ls ; Mono ran jail, MCOM 
(us, Monornnjan, BOOM 
|,V/. Mukul Kanti BSC 

Naksliatra Bhusan, 1V1A 
l>a>, Nani Copal II, BSC 
Das, Narosh (Chandra, hsc, caitr 
1 )i i s • Ne-tai Chand, BA 
Da>, Nirnial Kanti, MA . 

D.I.S, Nitya Ge»pal, BA 
1),^. parosh (Chandra, BA 
D.is, Parinml Ch, ha 
p ; ,s, Pari tosh, use 
Das. 1 Math 11a Kamal. BA 
Das, Branal) Kumar, use. 

| IMa-santa Chandra, BA 
D.i.s. Prosanta Ki DSC 
Das, lMovash Ch, ha 
Das, Bahiiulra \ T atl», ucoin 
1 » |1S 1 Jadha Mohan, HA 


Da-. Badhasam, ha . , 

Das, Ivnnigopal, use 

p.v Uauu-ndra Ch., BA 

Das, Ramondra Nath, ha 

Das, Bamcsh Chandra, MA, LLB 

Dus, Budreswar, ha 

Das Sa.li 1 Kr„ BA 

I ).i,- Samar jit, BS( 1 

D i. S.unhhu Nat h, MA 

Das, Samir Kumar. BA 

Da- Sant i Bhusan, MSC 

Da- Sasa.nka TVlohan, BSC 

Dm S.ii\<-nelra (Mi., MCOM 

Da- Shibapada, BSC 

D.is, Siddhoswar, HSe; . . 

I )as, Nubodh Kumar, Room 

Das, Subimal, MA LhB 

J>.v Sudhanshu Mohon, BA 

Das Sudiiir Chandra III, BCOM 

Das. Sudhir Kanti, H.\ 

ID.-, Sudhir K, ha 
'D s, Suklal, ha 


Da- Kurosli C'handra, BS ( 1 
1 has, Susliil Iv, ma 
' bas, Susliil Chandra, HSo 
b;is Vanathu Mohan 

' has BhowmioU, Sublias Kusmn, 
BSC 

* b;u (’houdhury, Jadunath, B(’om 
1 has Gupta, A jit Kr,B A 
1 lias ( Jupta, Ajit Shankar, ha 
■ iD- Gupta, Amiya Kumar, BCOM 


t 

’* 

9 


Hi 


1 

it 


ba.s (Jupta, Ardhondu, BSC 

ban ( Jupta, Asish Kumar, M A . . 

b^H Gupta, Ashit Kumar, BSC . . 

u> > Gupta, Bojc»y Kr, itoom 
^ Cujita, Bonodo Ranjan, Kcom 
Gupta, Bibhas, hsc 
bas Gupta, Biraj Bhusan, bsc . . 


BA 


? aH Gupta, Chittaranjan, ma 
^ upta, Debashis, BA 
°upta Dhyan, BSC 
as Gupta, Qanesh Chkndra, 


Auditor, Ad 1 s e»ffice\ West Bengal 
UJ)C ITOllico, \V B .. 

Asstt. Comnuuw & lndustrios Dopt 

V 1) (\ 1) A C V A T 
Auditor, A (J Bengal 

I Id Asstt, Bopstiation Directorate 
Auditor, Adi, W B 

Auditor, Adi, W B 
Aoott, J> A (1 B A r r 
< f .|ork, Grade TL Kositvc Bank of India 
1> R Cl, Chic-i Engrs Office?, Cejrpu of Calcutta 
U J) C, 1) A C P A T 
IT I> C, Telegraph (’hook Office 
Utuhty t dork . Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
11 D Asstt, Ivluoat i« *n Diie-ct orate 
Assistant, Co-operat i vt* 1 >n ootorato, West Bengal 

V l> C, l> A (J P A T 

L I) C, Commerce* A Industrie's Ocptt . . 

Sr Asstt, Board ot Secondary education 
l T 1) <\ Telegraph Clte-e-k Otlicei . . 

(1 1) ( 'Jerk, (Jo\ t of India Stationery OHioo 
Ledger Ke-e-pe-r, Price- Waterhouse- Boat A Co 
Jle-ud Clerk, \ssonated Elce-trical 1 ndustrics ( I ndia ), 

Ltd 

Cieik, Ihirmah Shell O S A 1) Co, Btd 
Asstt, L R. Branch, Lund and Land Pe-voimn 
IT | > ( \ Income Tax Ollie-e* 

IT 1) Asstt , Education Directorate 
L I) Asstt, I Lome- (Passport) I>opt 
Asstt., Land A Land Revenue- l><-ptt 
L l> (\ 1> A (J P A T 
17 DC, DA G P A T 

Ins, I neome* TuA ( >Hiee 
Auelitor. Ad J , W B 

r d (\ d a c p a t 

C D c, I) A C p A T 
L D (’, (Jovt. of India Korins Pre-ss 
IT I)C, Te-le-gra] >h Che- ok OHice* 

L D C ( ’omniei <«* A'. Jn< lust rie-s Dc]»t ( . . 

Auditor, A-(Ps OHie-e*, U'est Benign I 
i ii-epoiC or, 1 1’ OHioo, VV B 
Clerk, K 1 My 

I I D C, D \ <; P A T 

Sn I »dt , Board of Soeonelary Kdueation 
U D Cle rk, 1> A (J, 1* A T OHiene 

l ? 1) Assistant , Anima.l Husbandry & YYle-nary 
Se-rv ie e-s, \\ e^st Bengal 
D ( \ Income- 'Pav ()Hie*e- 
Rev Head, Standarel Y’acinim Oil CTo 
L 1) Asstt, C >-e>pe,ration Dopt, West Bengal 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace* A (Jo Ltd 

Asstt, We-sl Be-ngiil Provijuual C<j-o|H*rative Bank 
Ltd 

Asstt Seoy, Boa re 1 of Se-e-ondarv Kelucation 
Asstt, Ceiurt e»f Small Causes ed (Calcutta 
Auditor, A-(Ps Office, West Bengal 
Seeuritv Clerk, Central Bank e»f India Ltd (New 
Marke-t Br) 

V DC, 1) AC PAT 

Sr Asstt, Ihiarel e>i Seooiielary Kel icatiem . . 

V D C, D A C P A T 

Cle?rk Graele» TT, Be-.seirco Bank of India 
(Hoik, Burin ali SheK O W & D Co, Ltd 
Clerk, Lurmab Sbedl O S A D Co, Ltd 
Clerk, Imperial Chemical Industries (India), Private, 
Ltd 

TT I) C, Income? Tax e>ffico 
U I) C,DAG P & T 
IT I> C, Income Tax Office 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 


iteatdence or place of 
business. 

All India ltadie>, luien 
( larele-ns 

r lMeasur\ Buddings 
•t , II a st inns St i t‘i“t 
Wilier,-. Buddings 
7 Kodaghat. Si re*e*t 
"Pre-a-uiw Piudding'* 
Writers’ Bmleliirus 
Tre -usury Buildings 
Tre -usury Buidmgs 
7 Koilaghat Stre-e-t 
S, (’ouncil House- Stree-t 
S N l»anerji-e- Roael 
7 Kenlaghat Stie*e-t 
d.‘> Dalhoiisie- Sepi.-ire? 

H, ( Mi in ch I i.-uu- 
Write i ?- ’ Buildings 
New Se •< ( ( Buildings 
7 Kodaghat. St le-e-t 
WriD-rs* Bui Mings 
77 Pm U Stive-i 
,‘P> Dalhousic Sipiare- 
( Lurch Lane' 

Bl, ( Jilfmde-r House- 
(>, Mission Bow 

J longkemg 1 louses 
\\ rit e*r.s ’ Pun Idings 
P 7 ('how r.lighe-c Sepiaie- 
Writesrs' Ibiildin ,r s 
I I A Pre-c Sc hoe* I St 
Writers' Buildings 
7 Koil.ighai. St re-ct. 

7 Kodaghat Sfre-e-l. 

(Jovt Pla.ce- West 
Tre-asur\ Buildings 

7 Ko dag li.-i. I Stre-e-l. 

7 Kodaghat Street 
I Temple- Stre-ct 
.‘PI I )alhoiisi<- Sepiare- 
Wiite-rs' Buildings 
Treasury Bui Mings 
.‘J, Govt Place, West 
Easte-rn Bl\* House- 
7 Koilagha.t Si re-e-l, 

77/2, JMirk Stree t, 

7, Kodaghat Strce-t* 
Writers' BuiMings 

P-7 < ’how mighe-e- Sejuare- 
f>, Chun li Lane- 
Writers’ Buildings 

4, Bankshall St 

D> Old Court House? 
Stre-e-l 

77/2, Park SI re-ct 
,‘h Bankshall Strcrt. 
'JVe-asurv Buildings 
1 0 Linelsay SI reel 

7 Koilaghat Stre-ed 
77 -2, Park Stre-ct. 

7 Ke a lag ha t- Si re e-t. 

5, Comu-il House- Street 
Hongkong House* 

Hem.gkong Ii<*u-.e 
.M4, (Lowringhce 

:L (Je,vt place; , VWst 
7 KeuJaghat Stre-ct 
3 Govt Place? Best 
Treasury Buildings 



No. 


944 

945 
945 
947 

94S 

949 

950 

95 1 

952 


953 

954 

955 
950 
957 
95 S 
959 
900 
90 J 
902 
905 

904 

905 


900 

907 

90S 

909 

970 

971 

972 

973 

974 

975 
970 
977 
97 S 
979 
9S0 


9S1 

982 


983 

9S4 


985 

980 


987 

988 

989 

990 

991 

992 

993 

994 

995 

996 

997 

998 

999 


64 


Name*. 


Style or calling. 


ftesidenoe or pl aoe 0 j 
business. 


Das Gupta, Jyotirmay, ba 
J)as Gupta, Karnal Kanti, DSC . . 
Das Gupta, Kanti Priya, BSC . . 
Das Gupta, Mihir Kr., BA 

Das Gupta, Mrinal Kanti, BSC . . 

Das Gupta, N. 

Das Gupta, Mrinal K, Bsc 
Das Gupta, Nirojbohari, bsc 
Das Gii]ita, S, Boom 


U D Clark, D A-G, P & T Office 
U D C, Education Directorate 
Acctt, D A G P & T 

Hd Clerk, L A Dept, Commissi oner's Office, Pre- 
si denc^y Division, W Bengal 
U D Asstt, Dept of Agric ulture & Food Production, 
W Bengal 

A M(Tech) Govt of India Forms Press 
Clerk Gr 1, Reserve Bank of India 
Acctt, A-G’h Officer, West Bengal 
l) 1) Clerk, Tea Board 


Das Gu])ta, Santosh Kumar, Boom 
Das Gupta, Sadhan, use 
Das Gupta, Satyu Ranjan, BSC . . 
Das Gupta, Satya lianjan, Boom 
Das Gupta, Sukanti Charan, bsc 
Das Guj>ta, Subiinal, BSC, DEB 
Das Guj>ta, Sunil Kumar 
Das Gu])ta, Sunil Kumar, ma 
Das Gu]>ta, Taraknath, ba 
Das lloy, liabindra Chandra, BOom 
Das Surma, Hem Chandra, ba . . 
Das Sharma, Moiiotosh, BSC 
Das Sinha, Arun Chandra, BA . . 

Dastidar, Kamakhja Kumar, bsc 
Dawn, Saroj Kumar, use 
Do, Ajit Kumar, ba 
Do, Ajit Kumar, ba . . 

Do, Amiya Kumar, BSC 

De, Arun Kumar, ma 

De, Ashutosh, MA (Com) LLB . . 

l)c», Avanti Bhusan, ma 

De, Jpinkim Chandra 

De, Bhupcndra Cli. ba 

I >e, Bimal Kumar, MA.BT 

De, Chittaranjan, BA 

De, Deb Narayan, BSC 

De, Dhirendra Nath, ba 

De, Diptiinoy, BSC, BE 


Clerk , Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade 11, Reserve Bank of India 
Supervisor, C E S 0, Ltd 
Supdt, lic sorve Bank of India 
U 1) Asstt, Education Directorate 
L D C, 1 T Office 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & (To Ltd 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
IT D Clerk, D A-G, P & 1’ Office 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Class II, Controller of Coal Accounts Office . . 
U D C, D A G P & T 

I Id Clerk, liov Dept, Commissioner’s Office, Presi- 
dency Division 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Acctt, I) A G,P & T’s Office 
Super, I) A-G, P & 3’ Office 
Clerk, Grade 11, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Inpscctor, C T Tax Office, W B. . 

Eaxminer, Gr TT, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Statistics Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Asstt Teacher, St Xaviers' Collegiate School 
IT I) Asstt, Education Dept 
IT D Asstt, Education Dej)t 
Supdt, Geological Survey of Tndia 
Asstt Engr, (Civil), Planning & Dev Dept, Corpn 
of Calcutta 


7, Koilagliat Street 
Writers’ Building 
7 Koilaghat Street 
11 Netaji Suhhas 

Writers’ Buildings 

I Temple Street 

8, Council House Street 
Treasury Buildings 
27 and 29, Lral>„ ur 

Road 

8, Council House Strei 
8, Council House Ntre< 
Victoria House 
8, Council Honsi streei 
Writers’ Buildings 
P‘7 Chowringhee Stjuj 
4, Bankshall Strict 
Treasury Buildings 

7, Koilaghat Street 

8, Council House Strep 
1, Council House Stre<‘t 
7 Koilaghat, Street 

II Netaji Suhhas llnju, 

8, Council House Stree 
7, Koilaghat Street 

7, Koilaghat Street 

8, Council House* Stree 
Writers' Bui Miners 
Treasu ry Bu i Id 1 ngs 

4, Hasting Street 
8, Council House Stree 
4, Banxshal Street 
6, Church Lane 
30 Park Street 
Writers’ Buildings 
Writers' Building 
27, Chowringhee 
5 S N Bauer jo< K<»:wl 


De, Dulal Krishna, ncora 
De, Dulal Chandra, BCOM 
De, Gopi M, Bcom 
De, TTareiulra Nath, bsc 
De, Harihar, BA 
De, Jatindra Lai, msc, bt 

l>e, Jogesh Ch, BCOM 

Do, Kalipada, ba, bl 

De, Kali Prasad, ba 

I)e, Kanailal, MCOM 

De, Manabendra Nath, use (H) . . 

De, Matilal, BSC 

De : Mi lend ra Chandra, BA 

I)e, Monoranjan, BA, LLB 

J>t , Naresli Chandra, MA 

De, Nemai Gopal, ba 

De, Nil Mohan, Bcom 

De. Niranjan Bikash, ba DIP, LLB 

De, Parimal Kumar, ma, Boom 


U 1) Asstt, Home Deptt, Transport 
Asstt., Commerce & Industries Dept 
Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
U D Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 
U D C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
Asstt Master, Hindu School 

Asstt, Directorate of Panehayats 
Calculation Clerk, Rallis Tndia, Ltd 
SGC Clerk, I) A-G, P & T Office 
U D C, 1 T Office 
Acctt, Clerk, D A-G, P & T Olliee 
U D C, D A G P & T 
Hd. Asstt, Geological Survey of India 
IT D C, C T Office, W B 

Dint Organiser, National Savings Organisation, W B 
Clerk, Burmah Shell O S & D Co, Ltd 
Accounts 

Jr. Tech. Asstt & Librarian, Secretariat Library 
Asstt, Lovelock & Lewes 


Writers’ Buildings 
Writers' Buildings 
8, Council Houpc Stn « 
33, Dalhonsje Square 
33 Dalhousie Square 
IB, Bankim Chattel 
Street 

Writer’s Building- 

16, Hare Street 
7, Koilaghat Street 

3 Govt Place We>4 

7, Koilaghat Strict 
7 Koilaghat Street 
27, Chowringhee 
4, Hastings Street 
Hindustluui 


Hong Kong House 

rmah Shei I u o & u uo, .i^ta . . • • JluI1 h r . 

Clerk, Alkali & Chemical Corpn of India Ld 34, Oiowiaig ^ 

Writers’ Buildings 

4, Lyons Rang 0 



65 


to. 


tfaHMS. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


A j) 0f Prafulla Kumar, BA 
„1 l>t*, Pravasli Chandra, BSC 
Do. Rajballav, use 
d<\ Rainapati, bsc; 

o4 j).*, Panjit Kumar, use 
Do, Bases war, ha 
mi Di*. Kmhindra Nath, Broin 
<( 7 l)«\ Sahadev, BSC 
os j) ( v. Siintosh Kumar, B('Om 
o! , \h\ Sudhir Chandra BA(H) 
j (l ]>. Sudhindra Nath, BSC 
11 Do. Sukhendu Bikash, Bcom 
Do, Snk uinar, BA 
,j;» Do, Siuid Kumar, ma 
14 Do, r r K, use 

i;, Do, T.irak Nath, ba 
|i, |)o, Tu^liai Kauti, msc 

17 Do Sitrkar, Mihir Lai, BA 
is Do Sitrkar, It C 

l*i l >< 5 Saikar, Sliyaraal Kr, . . 

tin 1 ><d», Hrishikesh, ma 
til Dol», NiIi.li Chandra, ba 
till Dolt Sukiiinar, ha 

Dol», Smcsh ( ’liandra, BSC 
h Ik- 1 * P.isuas, Ahhijit itanjan, BSC, 

> LLB 

|f-i Doit (iiipta, Samarondra Nath, 

ill '(III) 

Dclmafli, Banamali, MCOM 
' Dohn.it h Dlmendm Kumar, BS(’ 

" Doiiit i.jt, ( • 1 1 } »; 1 . 1 < handra, ne<»tii 
I >* Ln.it h . N.igrndm Chandra, MA 
■ h I >« i*i i till .\irm.i.londu MCOM 
'I D«-h l; u Sunil Barun, BS( J . . 
i- Dli.u \i. tl.o Nath, ba 
Dliar, Amniddha, noorn 
k Dti.n . ( loin \ lharidra 

Pliarn Bhusan, BA 

,5,) Dhar, P.jush Kanti, use 
l‘li. u S ulhindra Nath, MA 
,s I >'111,0 ^antosh Kumar, Bcom 
^ P'ht . .\ Udoin 
A B, rso 

1 ihiDa., A dial Kumar, BCOM 
' 2 Aluudra La], BSC 
* )utt A jit Kumar, ba 
D utl Ajh Kumar, BCOM 
l [ 1>u,t Amar Kumar, ba 
. ^ )lir P Am.-.iondra Nath, BA. BT 

J )u D, Amitahba, MOoin 
Amritalal, ba, 

^ 1)uu > Anunesh Chandra, MA 
L Anath Nath, ba 
L . Utta< ^ n ^ Karan, bsc 
L utfc ^ Ardhendu Narayan, BSC, . 
r ut D Ashoke Kumar, MA, LLB 


U D C, D A G P & T 
U I) C, I) A G P A T 
S C C D A-G, P A T Office 
IT 1) Clerk. Tea Board 

Clerk, Bur mail Shell O S A 1.) (Jo, Ltd 
Clerk, Burmah Shell () S A 1> Co, Ltd 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
IT D C, 1) A C P A T 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
J>ist Organiser, National Savings Organisation, W B 
L D Asstt, Home (Passport) Dept 
Auditor, A-G’s Olhee, West- Bengal 
IT D C, I T Office 

Clerk, The Hongkong A Shanghai Bank 
L 1> Clerk, Tea Hoard 

Asstt, Local Self-Govt Dept, West Bengal 
Clerk, Burmah Shell OS A D Co, Ltd 
Chirk, Grade 11, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt Engr, Dra, inage Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 
(’Jerk B, C K S C Ltd 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Asst t, Finance Dept 

1 Aidger- Keeper, Brooke Bond India, Ltd 
Clerk B, C K S C I Ail 
IT 1) (\ I T Office 


7 Koilaghat Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 

7, Koilaghat. Street 

1*7 and 20, Bfabourne 
Road 

Hongkong Hniu*o 
Hongkong Ho>vse 
Treasury Bi.ihhngs 
7 Ko dag hat Street 

8, Council House Street 
llindusthan Buddings 

I I A Free School Street 
Treasury Buildings 

1 7 Ohowringhee Square 
I, Dalhousie Square 

27 and 2D, Brahourne 
U< >ad 

Writers’ Buildings 
Hongkong House 
8, Council 1 louse Street 
f>, S N Bauer jee Road 
Victoria House 
8, Council House Street 
Writers’ Buildings 
2, Metcalfe Street 
V ictona House 

2 Govt. Plaee West 


Clerk, Buinia Shell () S A 1) (Jo, Ltd 


Hongkong House 


1 1 D C, I T Office 

L l> Asstt, Education Dept . . 

Cleik, (luiV I, Rest‘i‘\e Bank oi India .. 

Aect.t, A-G, W B 
V I) C, I) A C P A t 
I lls, I T ( Itlier 

Order, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Clerk, Grade 11, Reserve Bank oi India 
Asstt, .lames Finlay A (Jo . . 

Acctt, State Trading Cnrpn of India Ltd 

IT I) Asstt., Home Deptt (Transport) 

H D 0, D A G P A T 
Clerk Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt. Accountant , Tea Board 
Chemist, I C 1 (India), Ltd 
Asstt Secy, Board of Secondary Education 
U 1) C, I T Office, W B 
Clerk Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Rel Chirk, A-U, W B 
IT D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Payroll Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co, Ltd 
Clerk Grade II, Reserve Bank of Tndia 
Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

IJ D C, D A G P A T 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U D Asstt, Home (Poll) C R Dept 
L. D. Clerk, Administrator-General and Offi. 
Trustee, West Bengal 


P-S Brahourne Road 
Writers’ Buddings 
N, Council House Sheet 
Treasury Buildings 
7 koilaghal. St reef 
P-S Brahourne Road 
( », < 'hurdi Lane 
8, Council House Street 
2, Notaji Suhhas Load 
22 Dalhniisie Stpiare 
South 

Writt?rs’ Ihiildings 
7 Koilaghat Street 
S, ( ’oum il House Street 
27 & 2D, Brahourne Rd 
24, Chowringhee 
77/2 Park Street 
2, Govt Plaee West 
8, Council House Street 
Treasury Buildings 
7, Koilaghat Street 
<>, ( ’hui < h Lane 
8, Council Tltmse Street 
22, Daihousie Square 
South 

7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
i Hastings Street, lOtb 
Floor, Calcutta 



No. 


Names. 


Style or o&lling, 


1054 

1055 

1056 

1057 

1058 

1059 


1060 

1061 

1062 

1063 

1064 

1065 

1066 

1067 

1068 

1069 

1070 

1071 

1072 

1073 

1074 

1075 

1076 

1077 

1078 

1079 

1080 
1081 
1082 

1083 

1084 

1085 

1086 

1087 

1088 

1089 

1090 

1091 

1092 

1093 

1094 

1095 

1096 

1097 

1098 

1099 

1100 
1101 
1102 
1103 
1164 


RwWenoeorpUoed 

business 


Dutt, Banbehari, BA 
Dutt, Bojoy Krishna, BA 
Dutta, Benoy Krishna, BSC, BOOM 
Dutta, Biswanath BSC 
Dutt, Bikas Kumar, BOOM 
Dutta, Deb Ranjan, MA 

Dutta, Dihyendu Bhusan, BSC . . 

Dutta, Ohimilal, BOOM 
Dutta, Dobkumur, BSC 
Dutta, Dwijendra Nath, BSC 
Dutta, Dilip Kr, BSC 
Dutta, Gangadhar, BSC 
Dutta, Gopi Bailav, BA 

Dutt, Hiranendu Kr, ba 
D utt, Hrisliikesh Nath, BA 


Inspector, Election Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 
Auditor, A-G, W B 
Assit, 1 T Office 
UD.J,DA'IP&T 

Auditor, A-G, W B . . . • 

Officer, Central Bank of India Ltd, New Market 
Branch 

Ash It, A/C Dept, Life Ins Corpn of India, Sun Life 
Life Assurance (Jo of Canada 

Insopctor, I T Office 
U D C, J) AGP <V T 
U D C, Telegraph Check Office 
IT D 0, D A G P & T 
Ins, I T Office 

Clerk, Central Bank of India Ltd, New Market 
Branch 

( 3erk, Turner Morrison & to, Private Ltd 
(Tor (71., (Thief Engr's Dept, (Torpn of Calcutta 


5 S. N. Banerjee Koat 
Treasury Building 
P-7 Chowringhee ^ 
7 Koilaghat Street, 
Treasury Building 
10 Lindsay Strict 

23B Netaji 
Road 

P-8 Brabourne Roa,j 
7 Koilaghat Street 
33 iMlhotiHic Stjuaiv 
7 Koilaghat Street. 
P-8 Brabourne Road 
10 Lidsay Street 

6, Lyons Range 
5, S N. Banet jer ]{o» 


Dutt, India Pada, BSC 
Dutt, Jihendranath, use 
Dutta, Jitendra Kumar, BA 
Dutt, Kalipada, ma 
D utt, K. K. 

Dutt, Kalyan Kumar, MA 
Dull., Kama! Kumar, Bo.»m 
Dutt, Kauai Lai, licoiii 
Dutt. Karimapada, MA 
Dutt, Lakshmi Narayan, Bsc 
Dutt, La lit Motion, II, use 
Dutt, Madhusudan, in 
Dutt, Manindra N, m. 

Dutt, Monoranjan, use 
Dutta, Mriual Kanti, BSC 
Dutt, Naim Kumar . . 

Dutta, N Hilda Lull 
Dutt, Numal Chandra, Boom 
Dutta, Ninnal Kr., BSC 
Dutt, Nirode Baran, MA, bl 
D utt, Nityananda, BS(T 
Dutta, Nripendra Nath, BSC 
Dutt, Paresh Nath, bso 
Dutta, Pro tap, BA 
Dutui, Prohodh Chandra, MA 
Dutt, Rabindra Krishna, Boom 
Dutt, Rabindra Nath. MA 
Dutta, Rajendra Mohan, MA 
Dutt, Sailendra Prosad, Boom 
Dutta, Sanat Kumar, BSC 
Dutt, San tosh Kumar, BSC 
Dutt, Santosh Kumar, ba 
Dutta, Saroj Kumar, MCOM 
Dutt, Satish Chandra, ba 
D utt, Saumendra Bh. boom 
Dutt, Sh&nti Gopal, ba 


Head Asstt, West Bengal Secretariat, Education Dept Writers’ Building, 
Auditor, A-G’b Office, West Bengal . . . . Treasury Buildings 


l) I> C, 1) A G P & T 


7 Koilaghat Street 


Clerk Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 


8. ( Jouncil 1 louse Mn 


Asd»t Eugr, Drainage, Gorjm of (Tal 


5, S N Bauer i<*c Roa 


IiisjMietor, Tneomo Tax Office 

Clerk, Grade 1, Reserve Bank ol' India 

Clerk, Grade I. Preserve Bank of India 


P-7, ChowringliM* S«p 
8. ( 'mmeil House Mil 
8, ( 'ouneil Hoiim* Mm 


1 1 I) (J, Office of C I T, West Bcnga 1 
Asstt Valuer, Calcutta Improv ement Trust 
II D Clerk, 1) A-C, P & T Office 
Lodger Keeper, Stale Bank of India . . 

U D C, Stationery Office 
Clerk Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 

V D C, r relegraph Cheek Oflieo 
Asstt, .lames Finlay & Co 

A M (Adrn), Govt of India Forms Press 
Asstt, Iron & Steel Control 
IT 1> C, 1 T Office 
Asstt, Iron & Steel Control 
Insjieetor, Collection Dept., Corpn of Cal 
UDC, Telegraph Cheek Office 
S D C, D A-G, P & T Office 

V D 0, I T Office 
Ins, I T Office 

Clerk Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A-G, W B 

Asstt Master, Scottish Church Collegiate School 
Clerk, Burmah Shell O S & D Co, Ltd . . 

U D C, D A G P & T 

Auditor, A-G, W B 

U D Asstt, Home (Poll) Doptt 

Hd Asstt, Geological Survey of India 

Clerk, Balmer Lawrie & Co, Ltd 

Clerk, Standard Vaouum Oil Co 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal . # 


7, C ho wring lire S*jin 
IO, Netaji ttuhluis Kos 

7, Koilaghat. St i eel 
Qu< ieu’s Mansions 
3, Church Lane 

8, Council House St ns 
33 Dalhowse Sijimn 
2, Netaji Sublias 

1 Temple Stieet 
33, Netaji Subhas Ikx 

P-8 J Ira bourne Kiwi 

33, Netaji Sublias lk< 

5, S. N. Bauerjec K<* 
33 Dalheiisic Square 

7, Koilaghat Street 
P-7 Chowrmgliof S'l* 
3 Govt Place West 

8, Council House Stre 
Treasury Building : 
73 Cornwallis Street 
Hong Kong Houa* 

7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Builds 
Writers’ Buildup 
27 ChownngiK** 
21,NewajiS«ibIiH*^ 

6 , Church l^ ne 
Treasury Builds 



NfttfMtt. 


67 


No. 


Style or o&lling. 


Residence or place ( 
business. 


1105 Dutt, Shyamapada, Boom 
jl(K) Dutt* Shayama Prasanna BA 
H 07 Dutt, Somendra Nath, bsc 
11 OS Dutta, Sobodh Chandra 
1100 Dutta, Subodh Kumar, BSC 
Hio Dutt, Subrata, bsc, scorn 

1111 Dutt, Kudhanshu Ranjati, B8e . . 

1112 Dutt. Sudhindra Mohan, ba 
lll.l Dutt, Sudhir Kumar, Boom 

1114 Dutta, Sudhir Kumar, BA 

1115 Dutt, Sudhir Ran j an, Bsc 
1110 Dutt, Sukumar, Mcom 

1117 Dutta, Sushil Kr., BSC 

1118 Dutta, Sushil K, ba 

1119 Dutta, Tushar Kauti, BSO 

1120 Dutta Choudhuri, Ifaran Chnadra, 

1121 J)utta Gupta, Ashilava, BSC 

1122 Dutt Gupta, Dohubrata, Boom . . 
H2B Dutt Gupta, Nirode Kumar, ba 

1124 Dutt Gupta, Samiran, MA, BCOM 

1125 Dutta Roy, Chittaranjan, bsc 
1120 Dutt Rn \ , Ramesh Chandra, ba 


Clerk, (hade 1, Reserve Bank of India 
Hd Clerk Income-tax Ofticv 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Directorate of Agriculture 
U 1) C. D A G P & T 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
IJ 1) Asstt, Income-tax Office 
S G Clerk. Telegraph Chock Office 
Clerk Or. If, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, National Savings Officer, National Savings 
Organisation, W B 
Home Deptt (Poll) Dept 
Clerk, Allahabad Bank Ltd 

U D C, D A G P & T 
U 1) Clerk, Tea Board 
U 1) <\ 1) A G P & T 
Porg, Secy, All India Radio 

Asst t , Office of 1 T O, S I B 
Auditor, A-G’s Office* Welt Bengal 
Shellac Clerk, Raliis India, Ltd 
Auditor, Lovelock & Lewis 
Asstt-in-charge, Iron & Steel Control . . 

Steno, Standard Vacuum Oil Co, Ltd 


8, Council House Str 

7, Chowringhee Kqu 

8, Council House Sti 
Writers' Buildings 

7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 
.*1, Govt Place, West 
33, Dalhousie Square 
8, Council House Stir 
Hindus! han Building 

Writers’ Buildings 
Allahabad I 

Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Street 
27 & 2b, Braboume E 
7 Koilaghat Street 
All India Radio, 1 
Gardens 

P-7 Chowringhee Nqi; 
Treasury Buildings 
lb. Hare Street 
4, Lyons Range 
33, Netaji Subhas H< 
*>, (’ll ur»*h Lane 


G 


1127 (lain, Barendra Nath, MA 

1128 Gauguli, Abhayapada, ba 

1129 Gauguli, Amal Kumar 

1 130 Ganguly, A run K, ba 

11.11 Gauguli, Asini Kr, ba 

11.12 Gauguli, Asokc Kumar 
1 1 33 Gauguli, Asoke Kr, bsc 

11.14 Gauguli, Basanta Kumar, ba 
1145 Gauguli, Basudev, MCOM 
1145 Gauguli, Be joy Kr, Mcom 
11.17 Gauguli, Bo joy Kr, ba 


Ins, Income* Tax Of lice 
U D Clerk, l) A-G, P & T Office 
Asstt., Directorate of Agricult ure 
IJ D Clerk, D A-U, P & T Office 
U l) Clerk, Tea Board 
Asstt Directorate ol Agriculture 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Hd. Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept 
V J> <\ 1) A G P &. T 
Auditor, A-G's Office, West Bengal 
G I) Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 


11*48 Gauguli, Bimala Prosad, Mcom . . 
1149 Gauguli, Biswajil, BA 
1119 Gauguli, Dhmhajyoti, BCOM 
IHl Gauguli, Gouranga Sundar, MCOM 

Hi- Gauguli, Gour Gopal. booyii 
lu 4 Gauguli, Haridas, BSC 
1H4 Gauguli, Tlari prosad, BSC 
1JI ; J Gauguli, dagadiswar, bsc 
G auguli, Kalidas, ba 
47 Gauguli, Kauai Ch., BSC 
1JI8 Oanguli, Sonjit Kumar, ba 
( kinguli, Keshablal, BA 

!!?; (■anguli, Khagendra Kumar Boom 
11V> ^ an 8 u lb Manindra Bhusan, MA 
u ;* Canguli, Mihir Kumar, BSc 
lPa ^gwlt Mukunda Kumar, ba .. 
mJJ Gtanguli, Nandaial, bcoiu 
O anguli, Panchu Gopal, ba 
1157 ^ an 8 u li» Pranabesh, MA, BL 
jl^ Oanguli, Rajeswar, ba 
II Vi p ,,n g u b. Sachidulal 
llfiu P ail ^ u lb Sachindra N., BSC 
lift! P an k r «li. Sank a r Kr., MCOM 
Ufii> P An ^ u lb Santimay, BCOM 
Uta panguli, Sarit Kumar, MSC 
lUfti p ar *guli, Saroj, Kr., BA 
US p a 9guli, Sekharendra Nath, MA . . 
I Oanguli, Sisir, BSC 


Clerk, Grade LI, Reserve Bank of India 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
V D O, Telegraph Check Office 

L D Asstt, Agriculture of Food Production l>ept. 
West Bengal 

Clerk, Acctts Dept. Brooke Bond India, Ltd 
Jr Acctt, E lily 
IT ]) Asstt, Kdueation Dept 
U I) Asstt, Medical Br. Health Dept 
Auditor, A-G's Office, West Bengal 
U I) C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
U D C. Govt of India Forms Store 
Asstt, Life Insurance Corpn of India, Oriental 
Govt Security Life Assurance (To 
Sr. Asstt, Board of Secondary Kdueation 
Acctt, A-G, W B 

U 1> Asstt., Medical Br Health Dept 
Clerk, S V P C, Martin Bum, Ltd 
Clerk Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade 11, Reserve Bank of India 
Inpsector, I T Office, W B . . 

U D Asstt, Home (Poll) Dept., West Bengal 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
IT D C, Telegraph Check Office 
Clerk. K Rlv 
UDC.I T Office, W B 
Auditor, A-G, W B 
Clerk A, 0 E S C Ltd 
U D 0, Telegraph Cheek Office 
Clerk A, C E S C Ltd 


4 Hastings Street 
7, Koilaghat Street 
Writers’ Buildings 

7, Koilaghat Slreei. 
27 & 2b, Brabourne 
Writers' Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 
33, Dalhousie Squ 

South 

8, Council House Str< 

7, Koilaghat- St.ieet. 
33 Dalhousie Square 

Writers' Buildings 

2, Metcalfe Street 
Eastern Ply House 
Writers’ Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Bn i If lings 
33 Dalhousie Square 
IbO, Dharaintala Stn 

2 Clive Bow 

77/2, Park Street 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buikhngs 
12, Mission Row 

8, Council House Strt 
8, Council House Stre 

3, Govt. Place West. 
Writers’ Buildings 

4, Bankshall Street. 

33 Dalhousie Square 
Eastern Bly House 

3, Govt Place West 
Treasury Buildings 
Victoria House 

33 Dalhousie Square 
Victoria House 



tio. 


1166 

1107 

1108 
J109 

1 170 

1171 

1172 
1172 
1 J74 
1175 
1170 
1177 


1178 

1170 

1180 

1181 

1182 

1182 

1184 

1185 
1180 

1187 

1188 
1180 
1190 
1101 


1192 

1192 

1194 

1195 
1190 

1197 

1198 

1199 

1200 
1201 
1202 
1202 
1201 
1205 
1200 

1207 

1208 


1209 

1210 
1211 
1212 
1212 

1214 

1215 
1210 

1217 

1218 

1219 

1220 
1221 
1222 
1222 

1224 

1225 
1220 
1227 

j 228 


1229 

1230 

1231 

1232 

1233 

1234 


ftamet. 


Style of calling. 


fteaidence o t place oi 
business. 


Ganguly, Su brats Boom 
Oanguli, Sudlmnsu Mohan, BA 
Ganguli, Sudhir Chandra, BA 
Oanguli. Su Kumar, boom 
Ganguli, Sunil Kumar, bsc 
Ganguli, Sushd Kumar, BA . . 
Oanguli, Sushil Kumar, bso 
Oanguli. Sushil Kumar. MCOM . . 
Oanguli, Taiapada, ba 
Ganguli, Tarun, Mcom 
Garai, A jit Kumar, Bcom 
Gaycn. Khagendrn Nath. BSC, BT 

Ghat.uk, Akhil Bandiiu, BSC 
Ghalak, Pfindiu Gopal, BA, hLB 
Ghosal, Atlanta Kumar, ba 
Ghosal, Ar.ilunda, BA 
Ghosal, Batagopal BA 
Ghosal, Durgadas, BSC 
( dl< >sa.J. 1 1 It (‘.'id ( ,i Natll. MA, BT 
Ghosal, Hinm Kumar, BA 
Ghosal, dibandhan, ba 
Ghosal, doyanta Kumar, ba 
Ghosal, Kanailal, BSC 
Ghosal, Nam win Pada, BA 
Ghosal, Pravasli Chandra BA 
Ghosal, B.mjil Kumar, BSC 

Ghosal, Shyamal, MA 
Ghosc, Abani Mohan, msc 
Ghost*, A j it. K, bsc; 

Ghoso, Ajit Kumar, Boom 
Ghosc AUliil Kumar, MA 
Ghosc, Atual Kr, nrom 
Ghost' Amiva Kumar, MA 
Ghosc, Amulya Chandra, bsc 
Ghosc, Amulya Ratan, msc 
Ghosh, Anil Kumar, bsc 
Ghost', Anil Kumar, ba 
Ghosc, Anil Kumar, ma 
G host* Arabinda. I iS< 

Ghosc, Arabinda, Brom 
Ghosr Arim K<tni i BS( ’ 

Ghosh Aiun Kumar, msc 
Ghosr Arun Kumar, ha, bi. 

(dost*, \shim Banjan. BA 
Ghost*, Asit, Banjan, BE, CK 
Ghosc, Asis Kumar, H(’oin 
Ghosc. Asok Bin man, ba . . 

Ghosc. .*Vok( Kumar, BA 
Ghosc. A soke Kumar, BA 
Ghosh, Bansa Gopal, MA 
Ghosh, Bana Bcliari, bsc 
Ghost', Bc)o\ Banjan, bsc 
Ghosh, Bcnoy Krishna, ba 
Ghosc. Blmtcsli Chandra. BSC . . 
G hosh, Bijon lvr, ba 
Ghosc. Bipmdas, BA 
Ghosc, Biinal Kumar, BSC 
Ghost*. Biman Banjan, BA 
Ghost'. Bcno\ Krishna. BA 
Ghost*, Birmdra Nath. MA,BT . . 
Ghosc, Bircswar, Bcom 
Ghosc, Bisw math, ma (coni) 

Ghosc, Bisvvanath babt 

Ghosc, Biswanath, ba 
Gloscs, Bisw cswar, Bcom 
Chose, ( 'huitanya Charan, vcom 

Gliose, Debabrata, ba 
Ghose, Debabrata, bsc 
Ghose, Debaki Kumar, BA 


Asstt, Lovelock & Ijo nets 
dr Hd Asstt, Medical Br., Health Dept 
U 1) Asstt, Education Directorate 
Clerk, Grade IT, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk Gr. IT, Reserve Bank of India 
C IJ C, 1) A G P A T 
Clerk, Grade II, Restive Bank of India 
L 1) Asstt. Home (Passport) Dept 
U D Clerk, D AG, P & T Oil ice 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 
C D C, 1 T Office 


. . 4, Lyons Range 

. . Writers’ Buildings 
Writers' Buildings 
. . 8, Council House 

. . 8, Council House Stn * \ 

7 Koilagliat St reel 
. . 8, Council House Street 

IDA Fret' School St i oci 
. . 7, Koilagliat Street 

. , 8, Council House Street 

8, Council House Street 
Income Tax Oflict , R mt 

VA 


Asstt, Requisition Br, Land iV Land Rev Dept 
U 1) (\ I) A G P A T 

Sr Asstt, Board of St ‘condarv Kducation 
U I) (3, I) A G P A. T 
IT D C. I) A G P A T 
Head Asstt, Tloim* (Press) Dept 
Teachci , Milt a Institution 
0 J> D. 1) A G 1> A T 
Clerk, Calcutta Improvement. Trust 
Auditor, A-G’s Oflict*., West Bengal 
Inspector, Collection l>ept } Corpn of Cal 
Ch Clerk, C P O S Ofliee, K Rly 
Hd Asstt, Commissioner of Kxcist* Office 
F lns])eetor, Gr 11 State Transport Corpn of India 
Ltd 

V 1) C, l T Office 

Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 

Clerk, Grade 11, Reserve Bank t»l Tudia 

Asstt, Land A r . Land Revenue Deptt 

Supdt, Geological Survey of India * . 

V D Clerk, Tea Board .. 

Auditor. A < J Bengal 

Statistical Asstt, Office of tin* Labour Commissioner 
Clerk, Grade N. Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, Standard Vacuum Oil Co, Ltd 
Accountant, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, A O, West Bengal 

V D <\ I T Office 

1 T D Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

V 1> C. I T ( IHirr 

Dy Asstt Valuer, Calcutta l mprovt'inent Trust. 
Dealing Asstt,’. hunt Chad (’out roller of Import. & 
Export 

V D C, I) A G P A T 

Dy Asstt Engineer, Calcutta Improvement Trust . . 
Auditor A-G-*s Office, West. Bengal 
Clerk Grade II, Reserve Bank oi India . . 

V 1) 0, 1 T Office, W B 

V J) C. DAG P A T 

Auditor, A-G’s Offit t . Wt*st Bengal 
Clerk, Grach' II. Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Gr. LI, Reserve Bank of India 
Ch Clerk, 0 E S C Ltd 
C I) C, I T Office 
IJ D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
dr A eel 1 , E R1 v • • 

U D C, r T Office, W B 
IT I) C, D A G P £ T 

V J) C, I) A G P AT 

Asstt Secy, Board ol Sceoudatx Education 
Auditor, A-G’s office?. West Bengal 
Clerk, Grade I, Reserve? Bank of India 
Assistant Maste, Shva.inbay.ar Vidyasagar School 


Writers’ Buildings 
7 Koilagliat Stieet 
77/2 Park Street 
7 Koilagliat, Si reet 
7 Koilagliat Strew 
Writt'rs’ Buildings 
1*0 1 J, Miivaj »ur Sti <*<>t 
7 Koilagliat Sit reel 
10, Netaji Nubian 
Treasury Buildmo 
5, S. N. Banerjoe, Kami 
17 Netaji Suhoh a Ko.nl 
Writers’ Buildings 
22 Dalhoude Squnir 
South 

P-7 ( diowrmghee N|iuiv 
8, Council Mouse Street 
S, Council House Street 
Writers’ Buildings 
27 ( 'how rmghe.- 
27 A 29 Bra bourne Komi 
Treasury Building 
J . Hastings Street 
8, ( Council House Si n*i*t 
0, (’hurt'll Lane 
Treasiirx Building 
Treasury Building-. 

2 ( iovt PI. ice \\ < > 

22, Dalhousie Sql > 'Hill 
P-S Bra bourne lb> ul 
10, Net a ji Sublia . Ko.nl 
4, Esplanade Ea -•! 

7 Koilagliat St i 
10 Netaji Nubhe Kn.ul 
Treas ury Buildings 
8, Council House Street 

7, Koilagliat Sf re*et 
7 Koilagliat St reel 
Treasury 1 lui h 1 i ngs 

8, CounV.il IIoiim* Street 
8, Council House ^ortt 
Victoria Houst 

P-7 ( 'hov rmghcc Sijuarr 
7, Koilagliat Street 
Eastern li.nlwii.v 

Govt I 'Inc \\ .‘Ht 
7 Koilutflui S' 

7 Koilagliat St me: 

77/2 Park Sire t 

Treasury Buildings 

8, Council House Sow 
08, Bhupcndra 
Avenut' 


Auditor, A-G’s Office . . . . . . Treasury Buikl" 1 ^ 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal . . . . Treasury Buildm*-'* 

Clerk, Acs Dept, Mackinnon Mackenyie & Co 16, Strand h ,u( 


Private Ltd 

Ref clerk, A-G’s office West Bengal . . . . Treasury Bui 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India . . 8 , Council Rohm 

F Inspector, Gr II, State Transport Corpn of India 32 Dalhousie ’W 
Ltd South 



69 


Names. 

rjj, oHCj Debiprosad, BCom 
jjtosc, Debiprosad, BA 

-jjjoso, Dhananjoy, ba 

Rliirendra Kr, BA 
Ijjiosr, Dhircndra Lai, BA 
^bose, Dilip Kumar, bcom 
Those, Hinendru Nath, BCom 
•bi»si*. Dinesh Kumar, BA 
ihosb, Diuosli Ranjan, ba 
Bioko. Diptendu, BOOM 
; ho.se (liriiulra Nath, BSe 
Those, Gokul Chandra, ba 
Those, Gour Chandra, ma 
those , Gourhari, ba 
rhosh, Gunendra Nath, bsc 
[hose, G 8, BA 

[hose, Harisadhan, ba 

(riioM 1 llimn Kr, 1>A 

Chose .lagabandliu 

Phase, .lagabandhu, TV1 S( T 

Phase, Jagabandhu, ma 

Chose, -lagadish Ch, B( TOM , LLB 

< Those .lagannat li, BA 

Chose tlamiui Kumar, ba 
Phone, .Janardan, ma 
Chum ,1 \ aut i Kumai , ba 

CJio,se Jvatish Chandra, BCom, 
LLB 

Chose, Kalipada, ba 
Chose, Kangali Oliarau, BSe 
Chose, Kartik Chandra, BA 
Chosf . he.shah Chandra, BSe 
Ghose, Krishnadas, ba 
Chosii, Krishnadas, ba,bl 
Krishna Kumar, BA 
Ghosh, K L, boom 
Ghose, Lakshin i Naruyan 
G,, "« La lit Kr, MA, LLB 
Ghush. Maniek (’hand, boom 
Chose, Mol lit, Lid, BA 
Chose, Mxigendra Chandra, ba . . 
Ghose, Narondra Kumar, ma 
GKaso, Nepal Chandra, boom 
(, hosu. Netai Chandra, BOOM 
Xiiode Barau, BA 
Ghose, NnjieiKira Nath, bsc, bt 
Ghose, Banchugopal, boom 
°«h, Panna Lall, ba 
Parimal Kumar, BA 
/ 0so * Phakir Chandra, ma 
' 10s <-, Plinni Bhman, BA 
P, 0 *' ^ rM kash Kumar, BSe 
i ^ iMvabandhu, BA 
,K< ' ^ ip avat Kumar, BSe 

^rodyot Kun\j*r, BA 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


. Asstt, P H S IXxpt, Life Lib Corpn of India, Sunlife 23B Netnji Suhhas Road 
Assurance Co of Canada 


Asstt, Land Reforms Branch, Land & Land Revenue Writers’ Bui Mings 


Department 

Hd Clerk, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
IT J)(\ DAG, T&T 
Inspector, Election Dept, Corpn « >1* Cal. 
Clerk, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 

V I) C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
Aeett, DAG, V & r r 

Stono, 8tandar<i Vacuum Oil Co, Ltd . 
Clerk, Williamson Magor tS:* Co Ltd 

V I) C, I T Olliec 

Clerk, D A-G, P & T OfTice 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Accountant, A-G’s Ollice, West. Bengal 
Clerk, Kilburn & Co, Private Ltd 
U D Clerk, Tea Board 

U I> Clerk, Telegraph Check OfTice 

Sub He ad, E Ply 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Inspector, V S Dept, Corpn of Cal. 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, Lovelock & l^cwis 
See Hd, Life Insurance Corpn of 
Govt Sec urity Life Assurance Co 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U D Asstl , Income-tax Office 
U 1) (\ Home. (Polk -( ‘ II) Dept 


10, Netaji Suhfias Road 
7 Koilagluif S< reel 
f>, S. N. Banerjec Road 
23 B, Netaji Suhhas Road 
33 I Jallumsic Scjuare 
7 K >ilaghal St reel. 

(>, ( ’ll ur till Lane 
4, Mangoe Lane* 

P-7 Cli mrmgliee Scpiare 
7, Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
. . 4, Pairlie Place 

27 & 20, Brafiouruo 
Road 

. . 33, Dalhousie Scpiare, 

South 

Ea stein illy House* 

4, Bankshall Street 
f>, S. N. Banerjec Road 
Treasury Buildings 
4, Lyons Range* 

India, Oriental 2 Clive Row 

Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
3, < M\ 1 Place, West. 
Writers’ Buildings 


Clerk, Aeotts Dept, Brooke Bond (India), Ltd 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

IT D C, 1 T Office, W B 

Sr Clerk, Tata Iron <fc Stc*el Co, Ltd 

U D Clerk, I> A-G, P & T Office 

Sr Asstt., Board of Secondary Kdueal.icin 

Order Clerk, Staitduid Nacitmn Oil Co, Ltd 

L 1) Clerk, Tea Board 

Asstt, Directorate ed Agric*ult me* 

Inspector, l T Ofliec* 

Clerk, Gr. II, Reserve Bank of India 
(3erk Grade TT, Reserve Bank of India 
Ledger Keeper, Martin Burn (Jo Ltd 
Clerk, Burmali Shell O S 1) Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Jenwanlal (H>2‘.)) Ltd 
Clerk, Burmali Shell O K <V I> (To, Ltd 
Pav Roll Clerk, Staiidatd Vacuum Oil Co, Ltd 
Asstt- Maator, Haro School 
Asstt, Caledonian Insurance Co, Ltd 
Clerk, Bengal Chamber of Commerce A Industry . . 
U D Asstt, Pisbc*ries Dept, W Bengal 
Supdt, Commercial Intelligence and Statistics 
Asstt. I T Office 
Aeett, DAG, P & T 
U I) Asstt, Education Directorate 
Asstt, Land Revenue Branch, Land & Land Revenue 
Department 

Asstt, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 


2, Metcalfe. Street 
Treasury Buildings 
4, I last in gs Street 
23P», Netaji Suhhas Road 

7, Koilaghat Street. 

77/2, Park Street 
fi, ( ’Inn eii La ue 
27&2J) Bra bourne Road 
Wi ll ci k* Buildings 

3 Govt Place (West) 

8, Council House Street, 
8, Council House Street 
31, (Tfiittaranja.il Avenue 
Hong K ong House 

31, Netaji Suhhas Road 
Hong Kong House 
fi r ( Thill < li Lane 
87, ( Tollogo Street, 

B3, Gillander House 
(i, Netaji Suhhas Road 
Writers’ Buildings 
1 , Council House Street 
P-7 Chowringhcc, Square 
7 Koilaghat, St.reet 
Writers’ Buildings 
Writers' Buildings 

23B, Netaji Suhhas Road 



70 


No. 


1289 

1290 

1291 

1292 


1292 

1294 

1295 
1290 

1297 

1 298 

1 299 

1300 

iaoi 

1302 

iaoa 

1304 

1305 
1300 

1307 

1308 

1309 

1310 

1311 

1312 

1313 

1314 

1315 
1310 

1317 

1318 

1319 

1320 

1321 

1322 

1323 


1324 

1325 
1320 

1327 

1328 

1329 

1330 

1331 

1332 

1333 


1334 

1335 
1330 

1337 

1338 

1339 

1340 

1341 

1342 

1343 

1344 

1345 

1346 

1347 


Nmhob. 


Ghose, Profulla K. MA, Boom 
Ghosh, Promoth > Ranjan, BA 
Ghoso, Pronob K, Boom 
Ghost;, Rabindra Kumar, BSc, 
BCom 

Ghose, Rabindra Kumar, BA 
Ghost;, Rabindra Mohan, MA 
Ghose, Rabindra Nath, ba. bl. 
Ghose, Rabindra Nath, bsc 
Ghoso, Rabindra Nath, BSc 
Ghost;, Rabindra Nath, BSc, LLB 
Ghost*, Pranabcndra Nath, ba 
Ghost*, Radhashyam, MA, BT 

Ghosh, Rajat Kumar, BOOM 
Ghose, Ram Krishna. LLB 
Ght»so, Ramcndra Lai, BA 
Ghoso, Ranjit Kumar, ba 
G host;, Ratindra K, ma 
G hosh, Sachintirv Nath 
Ghose, Sachindra Nath, Boom 
Ghose, Sambhu N, bsc 
Ghosh, Samirornlra K, ba 
Ghoso, Sanat Kr (1 ), BCom 

Ghost;, Sant-iram, BA 
Ghost*, Shankar Nnrayan, BA 
Ght>st;, Sart»j Kumar, BA 
Ghost;, Satehidananda, Boom 
Ghosh, Satyabrata, ma 
G hoso, Satyabrata, BCom 
Ghosh. Satyendra i lath, BA (Hons) 
Ghose, Satyendra Narayan, boom 
Ghoso, Shyarnal Kumar, bsc 
Ghoso, Sisir Kumar, ba 
G hoso, Sisir Kumar, boom. 

Ghoso, Subodh Kr, Boom 
Ghose, Subhas Chandra, Boom, aoa 

Ghoso, Sudhamoy, use 

Ght>st*. Siitlhintlra Kumar, BSc . . 
Ghosh, Sutlhindra Nath, bsc 
Ghoso, Sutlhir Ranjan, Boom 
Ghosh, Sukhondu B, bsc 
Ghoso, Sukumar. BA 
Ghose, Sukumar, BSe 
Ghoso, Sunil Kanti, Mcom 
Ght>so, Surajit , MCom 
Gliost;, Surosh Ranjan, BA 

Ghose, Sushanta, bsc 
Ghoso, Sushil Kumar 
Ghost;, Tajmn Kumar, BA 
Ghoso, Tarak Nath, BA 
Ghost; Cliaudhuri, Salil Kr, BA . . 
Ghosh Muzun.dar, Purnciulu, B8c 
Ghoso Roy, Amiyo Krishan, bso 
Gomes, Lazarus, BA 
Gopalan, S S, ba (Hons.) 

Gopc, Sukhcndu Bikash 
Goral, Dliananjoy, BA 
Goswami, Ananta Dab, MCom . . 
Goswami, Anup Nath, ba 
Goswami, Amiya, ba 


Style or oalling. 


R«rfdeno©or pl a06( 

business. 


Legal Section, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 

. • 

6, Church Lain 

Statistical Asstt, Office of the Labour Commissioner 

1, Hastings Su< „, 

Audit Clerk, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 

• • 

B-4,Gillandei Jl ouse 

U D C, Income Tax Office 


P-7 Chowrm«r| 1M> ^ 

U D C, I) A G, P & T 


7 Koilaghat Stn , | 

U D C, Income Tax Office 


4 Hastings Stn^t 

Supdt, (Finance) Board ol Secondary Kduoantion 


77/2 Park Strict 

Auditor, A-G’s office 


Treasury Budding 

U D C. ’Telegraph Check Office 


33 Dalhousi« S«jum 

L I) C, Income Tax Office 


4 Hastings Si i «> ( .t 

Inspector, (Toiler,. Dept Corpn of Cal 


5 S. N. Banerjer Ho 

Asst Master, Hindu School 


IB, Bank i m t 'liatter 
Street 

Supdt, Reserve Bank ol Indin 


8, Council 1 ! < nix Si 

IT D (’DA G, P & T 


7 Koilaghat Sturt 

IT 1) C, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 


32 Dalhousie Siji , 

Clerk Grade 11, Reserve Bank of India 


8, Council House Sir 

Clerk, Grade Tl, Reserve Bank of India 


8. Council House St 


Hoad Clerk, Trans])oit Dent., Maeneill &• Larry. Lttl 
Clerk, Burma Shell O S & D Co, Ltd 
Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Supdt, Reserve Bank of India 
IT D C, Telegraph Cheek Office 


2, Faiiiio Pliuv 
Hong Kong House 
6, Churc h Lam* 

8, Council lions, St 
33 Da 11 1 minie S«jua> 
South 


Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept 
Supdt, Geological Survey of India - - 

Acott, State Trading Corpn of India Ld 
Burmah Shell O S & T> Co, Ltd 
Auditor A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
L D Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept 
Sr Clerk, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Homo (G A) Dopt 
Auditor, A-G’s Office 
Clerk, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
U. D. Clerk, Telegraph Chock Office 
Clerk, Grade 11, Reserve Bank of India 
Sr Technical Asstt, Office of the Registrar of 
Companies 

U. D. Clerk, Telegraph Cheek Office 

Asstt, Income Tax Office 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
IT. D. Clerk, Telegraph Cheek Office 
U. D. Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Hd Asstt , Geological Survey of India 
Asstt Head Master, Oriental Seminary 
Asstt, I C I (India), Ltd 
U D C, D A G, P & T 

Ledger Keeper, Central Bank of India, New Market 
Branch 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Directorate of Agriculture 
L D C, Income Tax Office 
IT D C, D A G, P & T 
U D C, Income Tax Office 
Clerk, I C 1, Ltd 
Burmah Sholl 0 S & X) Co Ltd 
U D C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
Acctt, A-G's Office, West Bengal 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
UDC, DAG, P&T 
L D Asstt, Home (Poll) Dept 

Clerk, Officers Dept, Maokinnon Mackenzie A Co . . 
U D Clerk, Conservator General of Forests Office . * 


Writers JXuildinp* 
27 Chow ringing 
32 Dalhousie S«|iiai 
Hong Kong I lows* 
Treasury Build inp. 
Writeis Buildu.p 
23J>. Netaji SuMiu* 
Writers’ Building*' 
Treasury Buildings 
10, Netaji Suhhiis 1 
33, Dalhousir St jiiai 
8, Council Ilonsr Si 
P-29, Mission Kow 


33, DalliouHie S 
South 

1>_7 (’how ringin’* S 
Treasury Building* 
33, Dalhousie S<|iiar 
7, Koilaghat Street 
27 Ch own ing! itf 
336 Upper Chitpur 

34, Chowriiurher 

7 Koilaghat Street 
10 Li IK Isa n St net 


8, Council House St 
Writers' Buildup 


4 Hastings ^ t,rr1 

7 Koilaghat Stn^ 1 

P-8 Brahoiiine 


ice 

foise 

Sijujiu 

di«Jg s 

W*t 

;tre<4 



Names. 


71 


Residence or plaoe of 
business. 


No. 


Style or calling. 


H 4 S Goswami, Banamali, BSC 

Gob w ami, Bankim Chandra, ba 
Goswami, Bhagabati Charan, 
M A BOom, 

KGJ Goswami, Bibhuti Bhus&n, BOom 
lV)- Goswami, Bisvvabinod, BA 
1 ‘US Goswami. Ganesh Ch, BA 
i;j;4 Goswami, Gobinda K, ba (Hons.) 
Goswami, Jugal Kishore, BA 
Goswami, Jagat Krishna, BA 
Goswami, Mad hu Sudan, BA 
i;i5S Goswami, Mohan Lai, BOom 
1‘j.v.i Goswami, Narendra N, BA 
j^;n Goswami. Radharaman, BA 
|.S(U Guha, Bidliiin Chandra, BA 
jMJ Guha, B C, MA (com) 

I Gulm, Barid Baran, BCotn 
j ;}04 Guha, Bhupendra Mohan, BA 
Guha, Bijoy Kumar 
];!<;<; (Julia, Dhirondra Kumar, Boom 
i;jr»7 Guha, Dinosh Ch, BSc 

(Julia, Dwijondra Lai, MA 
i;jtw Guha, Kalipada, BA 
1 I 57 U Guha, Karuna Kumar, BA 
i;{7l Guha. Mrinal Chandra, BSc 
i;{72 Guha, Nihar Kanjan, ba 
137:; Guha, Mukunda Bhusari, BSe 
137 4 Guha, T’rcmot pal, BCom 
137."> Guha, Ranendra, BSc 
137G Guha, Ragliabendra, BA 
1377 Guha, Sankar Narayan, Ba 
137s Guha, Santi Pada, MCom 
137D Guha, Subhendu Bikas, bsc 
I .‘iso Guha, Sudhangsu Kumar, ba 
IJ isl Guha, Sudhir Kumar, ma, bl 
H sJ Guha. Kudhir Ranjan, BA 
Us;; (Juha, Sunil Chandra 
13M Guha, Supraaanna, ba 
his"* (Juha, Susan ta Kumar, BA(Distn.) 
13S(> Guharaju, Krishna, MSC 
13*7 Guha Thakurta, Debcndra Nath, 
BA 

l:iss (Julia Rai, Awoke Kumar, BA 
iMf (Julia Thakurta, Bimalendu, ba 
^ ’ Guha Thakurta, Ranjit Kumar, 

I BSC 

Gupta, Amalendu, BA 
P' 1 - Gupta, Anil Chandra, ba, rl 
“ Gupta, BB, BA 

Gujita, Bo joy Kumar, booib 
> Gupta, Bhahatosh, BCom 

Gupta, Bihhu Ranjan, BA 

jiljj' Gupta, Biswanath, bsc 
. ‘ ( S G ii pl.t, Chittaraiijan, BA 
ut! Linondra Prosad, ba 

14* G^pt-a, Hemanta Kumar, ba 
U<» ) ^ Hrishikesh, bsc 
14, r. Gupta, H N, bso . . 

14 ’ Gupta, Indu Bhusan, Boom 
)<Kr ^ u l ,1a . Jyoti Bhusan, BA 
Uoii p U,,la ’ 'lyotimioy, BSc 

‘ Gupta, Kanti Prasad, ncom, ca, 

l4tr 1 I1B 

Uai Manas Ranjan, BSc (D) . . 

UlHi G u pla, Mihir, BC30M .. 

11411, Gupta, Nirode Nath, ba 
141] n ,pta ’ Phani Bhusan, BA 
Ul > G 1 I l , ^' a » Rrovat, bsc . . 
l 4 j“i Gupta, Pran Krishna, bsc 
Ul4 G u pta, Raman Kumar 
[ 1 ( 1,7 p Upta> Ramesh Chandra, ba 
Wm Ramprosad, bsc 

m n pta » Su Godh Kr, MA (Com) . . 
pin n pta ’ Sudharanjan, ma 
m G u pta, Sukomal, BSC 

Gupta, Sukumar, ba # # 


U 1) Assistant Home (Special) Dept 
Asstt, Local Self -Govt Dept, West Bengal 
Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 


Writers' Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
77/2 Park Si root 


Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 

V D C, D A G. P k T 
r 1) (\ I) A G, 1* & T 

U D Asstt, D A-G, P & T Offiro 

Asstt, Income 1 'Tax Olhee 

IT L) <\ 1) A G, P & T 

Supvr, Jlieome Tax Oiling 

Clerk, Grade li. Reserve Bank ot India 

Asstt, Agricultural Marketing, W Bengal 

IT 1) (\ Income Tax Office 

Asstt, Law (.Judicial) Dept 

Asstt Accountant, Tea Board 

Inspector, I 'I' Oilice 

Stores Asstt, Geological Survey ot India 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace k Co Ltd 
Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of Balia. . 

V D (\ I) A G, P & T Office 
Asstt, Finance Dept 

U J> C, I T Office 

U J) 0, State TVading Corpn of India Ltd 
U D C, I) A G, P k T Office 


. . 8, Council House' Streot 

.. 7 Ivoiluglmt Strci't 

7 Koilaghat Street 
, . 7, Koilaghat Street 

R-7 Chowrmghce Square 
. . 7 Koilaghat Street 

P-7 Chowi ingliee Square 
. . 8, Council House Stieot 

Writers' Buildings 
P 7 ( ’how nnghee Square* 
W riters' Buildings 
. . 27&29 Brabourne Road 

P-H Brabtmi nc Road 
. . 27 Chowringhee 

4 Bankshall Street 
. . 8, Council House. Struct 

. . 7 Koilaghat Street. 

. . Writers’ Buildings 
. . 4 Hastings Street 

.. 32 I )aJlu *usie Sqr, South 

7 Koilaghat Street 


Offg. U D Asstt W B Seott Home (Poll— C R) Dept 

Foreman, Gr (IV), CKSf Ltd 

U 1) C, Telegraph Check Office 

Auditor, A G, W Bengal 

U D C, Telegraph Check Office 

Steno, 1 T Office W B 

U D Clerk, Contlr of Coal Acctts Office 

U D Clerk, D A-G, P k T Office 

U D Clerk, Controller of Coal Accounts Office 

U D Clerk, Iron and Steel Control 

Marketing Officer, Agricultural Mai lading, W Bengal 
U D Asstt, Education Dept 
U D Clerk, Controller of Coal Account* Office 
Aoctt. I) A-G, P & T Office 
U D (M T Office 
IT DC, DAG, P k T Office 


Writers* Buildings 
\ ictoria House 
33 Dalhousie Square 
Treasury Buildings 
33 Dalhousie Square 
3 Govt Place West 
1, Council House Street 
7, Koilaghat Street 

I, Council Mouse Strt>et 
33, Notaji Suhhas Road 

YVritcrs' Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 

J, Council House Street 
7, Koilaghat. Stn*ct 

P-7 Chowringhee Square 
7 Koilaghat Street 


Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept 
Clerk, Grade II, liesorve Bank of India 
U 1> Clerk, Controller of Coal Accounts Office 


Writers* Buildings 
8, Council House Street 
1 , ( ■ouncil House Street 


Asstt, Secy. Board of Secondary Education 
Clerk, Bunnah Shell O S & D Co, of I, Ltd 
U DC, Income Tax Office 

Asstt Teacher, Metropolitan Institution (Main) . . 
Bill Clerk, Central Bank of India Ltd, New Market 
Branch 

investigating Officer, Agricultural Marketing, West 
Bengal 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
U D Clerk, Income-tax Office 
Librarian, Central Tea Board 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A-G ’a Office, Wost Bengal 
Asstt. Superintendent, Tea Board 
Clerk, Burrnah Shell O S k D Co, Ltd . . 

Acett , DA G, P k T Office 

IT D (\ D A G. P k T Office 

Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 


77-2 Bark Street, 

Hong Kong House 
P-7 Chowringhee Square 
39 Sankar (Jhosc Lane 
10 Lindsax Street 

YVrilei s Buildings 

8, Council House Street 
3, Govt Place, West 
273*29, Brabourne Road 
8, Council House Street 
Treasury Buildings 
27 k 29 Brabourne Road 
Hong Kong House 
7 Kid I aghat Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 
8, Council House Street 


IT 7) (!, D A U, P k T Office 
Clerk, Grade II. Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
U D C, I T Office 
Clerk, Grindlays Bank Ltd . . 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, W r M Sec, West Bengal 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, Burmah Shell 0 S k D Co, Ltd . . 
Asstt, I T Office YY 7 B 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A G W B 

Hd Asstt, Labour Commissioner’s Office 


7 Koilaghat Street 
8, Council House Street 
10, Netaji Suhhas Read 
P-7 Chowringlu'c Squaie 
(>, Church Lane 
Treasury Buildings 
4 Bankshall Street 
Treasury Buildings 
Hong Kong House 
P-7, Chowringhee Square 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
1, Hastings Street 



72 


No. 


Names. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


H 

1420 Halt, San ti ram, ha 

1421 Haidar, Amiya Kumar, ma 

1422 Haider, Amiya Goj>al, ma 
1*122 Haidar, Amritlal, Mse 

1424 Haider. Atul Kiislma. ha 

1425 Hu ld< i, Bopm Behari, BCom 
J420 Haider. Bcjo\ Kumar, BSr 
1427 Ila Idrr, ( Johindui am, BCoin 
142S Haidar, Hem (Miandra, BA 
1420 Hairier, Kumud R, BA 

1420 Ilaldar, Mohini Mohan, Boom . . 

1421 Haidar, Narayan Oh, ma 

1422 Haidar, Pro vat Kumar, Bsc (Hon) 

1422 Ha Ida i, Suharna (Mi, BA . . 

1424 Haider, Suhhas (Mi, BSc 

1425 Haider, Marapada, BCoin 

1420 Hunsda, Man Singh, BCom, BT . . 

1427 Har, Phanmdra (Miandra, MA 

1428 liati, Uday Chandra, ha, llb 
1420 Hazra Ananta K umar, BA 

1440 Hazra, Bidur Mohan, ha 

1441 Hazurika, Kliirod ( Miandra, BA .. 

1442 Hazra, G 0, ha 

1442 Hazra., Kunja. Behari, ha 
1*444 Hazra, Prosad (Mi., ha 

1445 Hazra, Sarin pa, la, use 
1440 llnzra, Susliil Ivimiai, BA 
1447 Hossain, Md Zaliid, BA 


Auditor, A-G’s Office, T A See 
Hd Cl, 1 T Cilice W B 

Local Purchaser Clerk, Indian Cable Go, Ltd 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal . 

LI 1) C lerk, Income -tax Oiler 
C 1) C, I T Office 

Auditor, A G, W Bengal • * 

Shoe ►graplr r. Legist i ation I )ircct ora Le 
Auditor, A-G’s Oilier, West Bengal 
Jr Acett, Finanee Deptt 
S, G. Clerk, D A-G, P r T Office 
U D Clerk, Commissioner of I m otne-t.a x Oilier 
U |> <\ J T Of lire 
U I) C 1 T Office 
C I > Asst t , Forest I >ej»arl ment 
Inspector, I T Office 
C D C, I T Other 

(Appt.) U 1) (Berk, Commissioner of Excise 

Asst t , West Bengal Pmvim ia I ( o o[»erativc Bank Ltd 

Clerk, Grade li, Reserve Rank of India 

Jr F Officer, State Trading Cm pn of India Ltd 

IJ 1) Clerk, Tea Board 

Clerk, Burundi Shell O S & IV Co of 1, Ltd 
U I) (Berk, Telegraph Cheek Office 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Sr AhhM, Board of Secondary Fdueatioti 
V DC, DA G, P vV T Ofl.ee 


Treasury Buildings 
P-7 Chovvringliee Square 
0, Hare Street 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
P-S, Brahourne Jtiaul 
P-S Brahourne Road 
'Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 

7, Koilaghat Street 
2, Govt. Place \\ e.si 
P-7 ( Miuwringhce Squaio 

P-S Brahourne Hoad 
Writers’ Buildings 
P-S Brahourne Load 
P-7 ( Ml ow ri uglier Squall' 
Writers Buildings 
!(> Old Court House St 

8, Council House Street 
22 Dallioiisic Sqr, South 
27 A 29 Bra.hourne ltd 
Hongkong House 

22, Dallioiisic Square 
South 

'Treasury Buildings 
77 / 2 Pai k St reel 
7 Koilaghat Street 


I 

144S Islam, Shamsul, ha . . 

1449 Iyar, Suhra mania., ha 

1450 lyei , S B 


J 

14r>] .lilbbiil Kli Abdul (I). HNc 
1452 .lb Abdul Han. HA 

K 

1452 Kanjilal, Arun Kumar, Bsc 

1454 Kanjilal, Munich la L BA 

1455 Kanjilal, Bat i la I, BA 
1450 Kar, Aj it Kumar, ha 
1457 Kar, Arun Kumar, ha 
145S Kar, Banipada. BSe 

1459 Kar, Nikunju B. use 

1400 Kar, Pratull.i Kr. mcom 

1401 K ar, Ram Krishna, ha 

1402 Kar, Sudliii Kumar, BSe 
1402 Kar Gupta Jitcndra Nath, BA 
1404 Kar, Salil Kumar, bsc 

1465 Kar, Sudhansu Bhusan, MCom 

1460 Kar, 'Tarim Kumar, BSe 

1467 Kami, Jaidev. BSe 

1468 Karmakar, Anil Kumar, 

HA 

1469 Karmakar, Anil Kr, BCom 

1470 Karmak.u, 1 l;iri|MdH , Boom 

1471 Karmakar, Sushil Kumar, BA 

1472 Kayal, Kauai Lai, BCom, BL 

1473 Kazimi, R IL. BA 

1474 Khan, Jb Abdur Rafujue, MA 

1475 Khan, Biros war Narayan, BSc 

1476 Khan, Prafulla Kumar, BA 

1477 Khan, Prakasli Chandra, BA 

1478 Khasnobis, S K, bsc 

1479 Koley, AJit Kutnar, BCom 
1470 Koshi G Mohan Das, ba 


Clerk, Grado II, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Assistant., Martin <Sr. Burn, Ltd 


S, (Toiine.il I foil so Street 
8, Council House Street 
1 2, Mis,- u >n Row 


V I) C, 'Telegraph Cheek Olliee 
IT I) (\ Income Tax Office 


22 I )a llionsie Sqinne 
•1 Hast mi's St n ■< t 


Asstt, Home (G. A.) Deptt 
L DC, Income Tax Office 
U I) C, DA G, P A. T Office 
ITT) Clerk, D A-G, P&T Office 
O 1) C, I T, W B 

V 1) (\ 'Telegraph ( Mieek Office 
Clerk, Grade II , Reserve Bank of India 
U D Clerk, D A-G, I* A T Office 
Olerk, Sales Tax, Marl in & Burn Co .. 
Inspector, Income 'Tax Office 
Inspector, Collection Dept Corpn ol Cal 
U D C, Office of I T, W B . . 

U D O, State 'Trading ( lorpn of India Ltd 
IT ]) C, D A G, V & T Oti.ee 
IT I) (\ I) A G, P & r T Olliee 
Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 


Writers’ Buildings 
4 Hast mgs St ieei 
7 K »j lagiiat St reel 

7, Koilaghat Street 

22, Net.a ji Suhlias Bend 
22 I lalhoiisie S< juare 

8, Council House Str^t 
7, Koilaghat Street 

12 Mission Row 
1 T Office, Dt I A 
5, S. N. Bauerjee Read 
3, Govt Place. West 
22 Dallioiisic Sq* . Soutli 
7 Koilaghat Shed 
7 Koilaghat Sheet 
77/2, Park Street 


LT D(\ 'Telegraph Cheek Olliee 
Clerk, Grade l, Re.-er\e Bank of India 
U D Clerk, 'Telegraph Chock Office*. 

AT I) Asstt, Education Directorate 
F Inspecl or, Gr II, State 'Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd 
Inspector, I T, W B 

Auditor, A-G ’s Office, West Bengal .. .. 

Commercial Investigator, OfTg, Commercial 
Intelligence and Statistics 
IT D C, D A G, V & T Office 
U D Clerk, Tea Board 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, Burmah Shell O S & D Co, Ltd. . 


22 Dalhousic Sqa^iu 
S, Conic il HMii.se Street 
33, Dalhousic Square 


South 

Writers’ Building* 

22 Dalhousic Sqr. SoutH 
2, Govt Place W csf 
Treasury Build* 11 ?; 

1, Council Houk- Street 


7 Koilaghat Street 
27 & 29, Brabounie 
Treasury Building* 
Hongkong House 


Road 



73 


fa. 


Names. 


Style or palling. 


Residence or plaoe of 
business. 


>, Kundu, Ahit Kumar, MA, LLB . . 

Kundu, Ajit Kumar, BA (H) 

Kundu, Balaram, MA 
i Kundu, Bibhuti Bhusan, MA, LLB 
* r } Kundu, Bidliu Bhusan, MA 
S 0 Kundu, lndu Bhusan, BSc (H) . . 
V Kundu, Jnanendra Nath, ba 
s ' Kundu, Madan Mohan, Boom 
s i) Kundu, Phani Bhusan, ma, 
boom 

ini Kundu, Pijush Kanti, MA 
m Kundu, Pranballav, BA 
q > Kundu, Prasatita Kumar, boom 
ji 3 Kundu, Pravat Kumar, MA 
,{I 4 Kundu, Santipada, bsc 

Kundu, Sukumar, ma 
oil Kundu, Tapan K, bsc 
<j 7 Kusary, Sailendra K, ba, bt 


Inspect-or, Income Tax Office 
U L) C, Telegraph Check Office 
Asstt Teacher, Oriental Seminary 
Inspector, Income Tax Office 
IT D C, D A G, P & T Office 
Acctt, D A G, P & T Office 
Statistical Asstt, Labour Commissioner 
Produce Clerk, Rallis (India), Ltd 
Auditor, Lovelock Lewis 

LLC, Govt of India Forms Stores 
Auditor, A G, W Bengal 
Asstt, Home (G A) Dept 
IT D C, Govt of India Forms Stores 
IT D Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

Auditor, A G W B 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Hd Asstt, Commerce and Industries Dept 


4 Hastings Street 
33 Dalhousie Square 
336 Iqqier Chit pur Rd 
1 T Office, I list VA 
7 Koilaghat Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 
1 , H ast-mgs St reet 
16, Hare Street 
4, Lyons Range 

166 Rharamtalla Street 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
166 Dlmraintalla Street 
33, Dalhousie Square 
South 

Treasury Buildings 
8, Council Houso Street 
Writers’ Buildings 


L 

(IS l^aha, Panchugopal, ba 

•Ml Laha, Ajoy Kumar, bsc 
on Laha, Prosanta Kumar, bcom 

111 Lahiri, Ashim Kumar, MA 

112 Laliiri, Baman Dae, MA (Com) 

03 Lahiri, Hemendra Nath, ba 

04 Lahiri, Harendra Mohan, BSc 
i ):» Lahiri, Kamalesh, boom 

or* Lahiri, Moll on Lai, Boom 

07 Lahiri, Punyabrata, bsc 

05 Lahiri, Ranjit Kanta, BA 

>06 Lihiri, Subhendu Mohon, BA 

>ln Lahiri, Sudarsan, ba 

>11 Lahiri, Sunil Kr. ba 

>12 Laliiri, Sunil Ciiandra, ba 

&13 Lahiri, Suresh Chandra, ba 

>14 Lahiri, Sushanta Kumar, bsc 

>l-» Lahiri, Tulshi Charan, MA 

»hl bill, Iswar, BSc 

>17 Laskar, Radha Nirmal, BCom 

hH Lawronco, Horace Earnest, bsc 


Statistical Asstt, Offg., Commercial Intelligence & 
Statistics 

Auditor, A-G ’s Office 
Ditto 

Teacher, Surendra Nath Collegiate School 

Inspector, Income Tax Office 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt , Local Self-Govt and Tanchayats 
Clerk, Gr 11, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, A /Cs Dept, Maokinnon Mackenzie Co, 

Ihrivate Ltd 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
Head Asstt, Geological Survey of India 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Librarian, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Sales, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
17 D Asstt, Education Deptt 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Asstt Head Master, Metropolitan Institution (Main) 
Asstt, Regn Br, Land &• Land Revenue Dept 
U D C, D A G, P & T Office 
Foreman 2, C E S C, Ltd 


1, Council House Street 

Treasury Buildings 
Ditto. 

24/2 Mahatma Gandhi 
Road 

3 Govt I Mace West 
8, Council House Street 
Writers’ Buildings 
8, Council House Street 
16, Strand Road 

Treasury Buildings 
8, Council House Street 
27 ( ’howringhee 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
6, Church Lane 
Writers’ Buildings. 
Treasury Buildings 
39 Saiikar Chose Lane 
Writ ,ers’ Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Victoria House 


M 

^ Mahajan, Sukhendu Bikash, BA 
20 Maithal, Ved Prakash 
jJ Maitra, Amiya Kumar, MA 
f Maitra, Arun Kumar, BSo 
f Maitra, Bhabapati, mabt 
^ Maitra, I > rovash Chandra, BA 


Maitra, Satyabrata, boom, llb 
£ Maitra, Sitansu Sekhar, ba 
Moitra, Sukumar, ba 


Maitra , Satyendra Nath, BA 
Muity, Asoko. ba 
Maity, Debendra Nath, BA 
Maity, Jiban Krishna, BA 
Majhi, Jatindra Nath, bsc 
Majid, Abdul (I), BA 
Maji, Krishna Pada, BCOm 
Maiumdar, Abani Mohan, BA, LLI 
Majumder, Ajit Kumar, BSo 
Majumder, Amarendra, BCom . 
JJazumdar, Amulya Kumar, ba . . 
Majumder, Aloke Kumar, MCom 
Majumder, Anil K, BSc 
Majumder, Asit, M.Sc.LLB 
Majumder, Ami Chandra, BA . 
Majumder, Debesh Chandra, BA 
^fj a jumdar, Haradhan, ba 
'UMadar, Jiteadra Nath, bsc 


U D Clerk, Commissioner of Income-tax Office 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd 
U D C, I T Office 
U D C, D A G, P & T Office 
Asstt Teach, Bangabasi Collegiate School 
Security Clerk, Central Bank of India Ltd, New 
Market Branch 

Sales Clerk, Indian Cable Co Ltd 
Steno, Office of I T Office, W B 

IT D Asstt, West Bengal Sectt, Education 
Department 

Steno, Industrial Tribunal 

IT D Clerk, Income-tax Office 

Asstt Treasurer, Home (Passport) Dept 

UDC, DAG, P&T Office 

Auditor, AGWB 

UDC, Telegraph Cheek Office 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 

Asstt, Talbot & Co 

UDC, DAG, P&T Office 

Asstt, Law (Judicial) Dept 

Asstt, Calcutta Improvement Trust Office 

UDC, National Savings Organisation, W B 

UDC, DAG, P&T Office 

Inspector, Income Tax Office 

S G C (Cashier), State Trading Corpn of India Ltd . . 
Asstt, Agricultural Marketing, W Bengal 
Auditor, AGWB 
Statistical Asst, Labour Commr. 


P-7, Chovvringhee Square 
4 Bfinksha.il Street 
4 Hastings Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 
8/1 Sautosh Mitra Sq- 
10 Lindsay Street 

9, Hale Street. 

3, Govt. Plaoe West 
Writers’ Buildings 

J, Hastings Street 
3, Govt. Place West 
11A Free School Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Building 
33 Dalhousie Square 
8, Council House Street 
Tower House, Calcutta 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Writers’ Buildings 

10, Notaji Subhas Road 
Hindusthan Buildings 
7 Koilagliat Street 

1 T Office, District VA 
32 Dalhousie »Sqr, South 
Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
2^ Str odf 



74 


No. Name*. 


Style or calling. 


Keekienoe or place ^ 
business. 


1546 Mazumdar, Jyotirmoy, ma 

1547 Majumdar, Jitendra Nath, ba 

1548 Majumder, Kanti Ranjan, BA 

1549 Majumdor, Nagendra Mohan, 

BCom 

1550 Majumdor, Nagendra Nath ba 

1551 Mazumdar, Nandagopal, ma 

1552 Mazumdar, Nopal Chandra, Boom 

1553 Majumdar, Panehanan, BA 

1554 Majumdor, Parimal Kr, BCom . . 

1555 Majumder, Paritosh Kumar ba 

1556 Majumdor, Pramatha Ranjan, 

bl. 

1557 Majumdar, Promananda, Boom . . 

1558 Mazumdar, Pulin Behari, bsc . . 

1559 Majumdar, ltabindra Kumar, ba 

1560 Mazumdar, ltabindra N, BCom . . 

1561 Majumdor, Radhikaprosad, BA . . 

1562 Mazumdar, Ramaprosad, bso 

1563 Maiumdai , Rainesh Chandra, BCom 

1664 Majumdar, Rathindra Nath, boom 

1565 Majumder, Sanjib Prasanna 

1566 Majumdor, Sat yendra Nath, BA, 

BL 

1567 Majumder Sukumar Kanti, BSo . . 

1568 Majumdor, Susliil Kumar, BSc . . 

1569 Mazumdar, Tara Kumar, ba, bl 

1570 Mallick, Kalahari, BA 

1571 Mallick, Dwarka Nath, BBC 

1572 Mallick, Goprtl Chandra, ba 

1573 Mallick, Gokul Krishna, BA 

1574 Mallick, Haridas, BSe 

1575 Malhck, Panchu Gopal 

1576 Mallick, Parosh Chandra, Bcoui . . 

1577 Mullick, Punderick 

1578 Mallick, S.n liiiulra Nath, MSo 

1579 Mallick, Tarun Kumar, bsc 

1580 Mallick Chowdliuri,I)urgapada, BA 

1581 Mandal, Anil Krishna, BCom 

1582 Mandal, Anil K lunar, BA 

1583 Mandal, Arabinda, BA 

1584 Mandal, Basudev, bso 

1585 Mandal, Bejoy Ranjan, bso 

1586 Mandal, Bidyaratan, BA 

1587 Mandal, Cliittaranjan, ma,llb 

1588 Mandal, Dhirondra Nath, BA 

1589 Mandal, Jagadish Cli, BSc 

1590 Mandal, Kalij>a<la, BA 

1591 Mandal, Kalipada, BCom 

1592 Mondal, Kartick Chandra, BA . . 

1593 Mandal, Klietra Mohan, BA 

1594 Mandal, Narayan, BSc 

1595 Mandal, Nikhil Kumar, BA 

1596 Mandal, Phani Bhusan, ba 

1597 Mandal, Ranjiteswar, ma 

1598 Mandal, Saraj Kumar, BSo 

1599 Mandal, Shibapada, Boom 

1600 Mandal, Sudliansu Sekhar, ba . . 

1601 Mandal, Surendra Nath, BA 

1602 M$ngal Kslutindra Kumar BSc . . 

1603 Manna, Amarendra Nath, ba 


Marketing Clerk, Standard Vaocum Oil Co 
Auditor, AGWB 
U D C, I T Office 

U S in Civil Engineering — Chief Valuer and Surveyor’s 
l>ept, Corj>oratk>n of Calcutta 
Asstt Secy, Board of Secondary Education 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G *s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office 
Inspector, I T Office 

Supdt (Accts) Board of Secondary Education 
Inspector — Collection Dept, Corpn of Cal 


6, Church Lane 
Treasury Building 

4 Hastings Street 

5 S N Banerjee 

77/2 Park Stm t. 
Treasury Buildup 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
3 Govt Place 
77/2 Park Street. 

5 S. N. Banerjee Rd. 


Asstt, Home (G A) Deptt 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, AGWB 
Jr Steno, Tea Board 
Sub Head, E Rly 
Asstt, Iron & Steed Control 

Ch Clerk, 0 S V & Loans, Sun Life Assurance Co 
of Canada 

U I) Clerk, Tea Board 
Asstt Directorates of Agriculture 

Dist Organiser, National Savings Organisation, W B 


Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings. 
27 & 29 Brabouriif 
Eastern Railway ILn 
33, Netaji Sulihas R 
23B, Netaji Subluis \\ 

27 & 29, Brahourin ii 
Writers’ Budding.^ 
Hindusthan Btnldmjj 


U D C, Office of 1 T, W B. 

Asstt, Agricultural Marketing, W T B 
U D Asstt, Iron and Steel Control 
U D C, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 
Auditor, A-G’s Office 

U D Clerk, Controller of Coal Accounts’ Office 
U D C, Telegraph Check Offioe 
Auditor, A-G. W. B- 
Asstt, James Finlay & Co . . 

Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 
Acoit,AG,WB 

lltl Clerk,' x^lburn & Co, Private Ltd. 

Clerk Grade II, .Heserve Bank of India 
U D C, Telegraph Cl> ck Offioe 
U D C, V A G, P & T O 1 * 108 
U D 0, D A G, P & T Offii’ 8 
UD Asstt, Medical Br, Healt> Oept, . . 

U D Clerk, Telegraph Check Offiv^ 

Auditor, A-G’s Offioe, West Bengal 
U D C, Income Tax Offioo 
Pub Assistant, All India Radio 

U D C, Income Tax Office 

U D C, Income Tax Offioe 

Head Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept 

Auditor, A G, W B 

U D Asstt, West Bengal Fire Services 

Auditor A G, W B 

Auditor, A G, W B 

U D C, D A G, P & T Offioe 

Clerk, Turner Morison & Co Private Ltd 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
UDC, DAG, P&T Offioe 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Asstt, Education Directorate 
U DC, Office of I T, W B 
Asstt, Local Self-Govt «& Panohayats 
Supdt, Stationery Office 


3 Govt Place \V<st 


Writers’ Build mi's 
33, Netaji Subhat km 

32 Dalhousie Nqi 
Treasury Buildings* 
1, Council H<Miv- Stn 

33 Dalhousie Nquar# 


Treasury Buildings* 
2, Netaji Sublias 1!<i 
8, Council House iStr 


Treasury’ Building 
4. Fair lit; PI a* e 
8, Council House Sir 
33 Dalhousie Square 
7 Koilaghat Struct 
7 Koilaghat SI nrt 
Writers’ Build mg.** 


33, Dalhousie S] 
South 

Treasury Building* 
P-7 Chowrnu'iiee Sq 
All Indiu Badio. Kdi 
Gardens 

I T Office, District 
P-7 Chowrim'liec Sq 


Writers’ Buddings 
Treasury Building 
13D Free School 


Treasury Building* 
Treasury- Building* 
7 Koilaghat Street 
6 , Lyons Range 



Names. 


75 

Style or calling. 


, t Manna, Krishnapada, ba 
r , Manna, Malay Kr, BSc 
|t ; Moni, S B S, Boom 
17 Markandan, S O, BSc 
>S Master, John, BA 
i<) Mathur, C K, ba 
[0 Mathur, Y S, BA 
1 1 Mehta, Prem Sagar, BA 
l > Mehta, Sumer Cliand, BCom 
l: ; Mi slim, Bal ban, BCom, LLB 

[l Misni, Sankar Narayan, MSc, 
AIFC 

i;» Mitra, Ahi Bhusan, ba 
hi Mitra, Amal Kr, BA . . 

17 Mitra, Amal Ohandra, BA 


Clerk, Williamson Magor & Co, Ltd 

UDC, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 

Stenographer, Iron & Steel Control 

IT D C, D A G, 1* * T Office 

U DC, DA G, P T Office 

Estate Manager, Soorjmull Nagarmull 

F Ins Gr III, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 

Acett, A G W B 

Aectt, Davenport A: Co Ltd 

Security Chirk, Central Bank of India Ltd (Now 
Market Branch) 

1) F O, Utilisation Divn, Directorate of Forests 
Clerk (B), C E S G, Ltd 

U I) Assistant, Animal Husbandry & Veterinary . , 
West Bengal 

U D clerk, offioe of Income Tax West Bengal 


IS Mitra, Amala Charan, bso 

ill) Mitra, Amar Kumar, bsc 

jm Mitra, Anadi Prosad, BSc, BA . . 

Jl Mitra, Anil Kumar, bsc 

22 Mitra, Asoke Kumar, ba 

j;; Mitra, Bibhas Ch, MA, BT 

, 2-1 Mitra, Bibhas Chandra, MA 

Mitra, Birendra Pr, BA Dip in 
Jourii 

> 2 *> Mitra, Bidyut Kr, BA 
',27 Mitra, Samarondra Nath, BA 
il’S Mitra, Debi Kumar, bsc 
’ d!) Mitra, Debabrata, BCom 
>:»( l Mitra, Cora Chand, MA 
•mI Mitra, Hirendra Kumar, Boom . . 
*'•]- Mitr.i, 1 lirendra N, Boom 
C* Mitra, Jagadish Ch, BOorn 
'M Mitra, Kahpada, BSc 
Mitra , 1 aikshinarayan 
lM* Mitra, Mihir Kumar, boom 
M itra, Murari Mohan 

^ Mitra, Narendra Ch, ba, bl 
M i!* Mitra, N D, scorn 
^ (l Mitra, Nirondra Nath, ba 
Mitra, Nrityagopal, bso 


U D Clerk, I> A-G, T* & T Office 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 

U I) C , I T Office 

Acctt, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 

Asstt Head Master, Mitra Institution 

U D C, T T Office 

Jr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
IT D CM T Oflice 

Asstt Acett, Office of* the Municipal Magistrates 
Audit Clerk, Price Waterhouse Peat & Go 
IJ D C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
Auditor, A G Bengal 
Asstt, Lovelock & Lowes 
Clerk, Grade i. Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank ol India 
U I> C, D A G, P & T Office 
Clerk, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
U D Clerk, Office of Income Tax W B 
Acett Clerk, Braith waite Burn & Jessop Construction, 
Ltd 

U D Clerk, Iron & Steel Control 
Asstt Accountant, Tea Board 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
S G Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 


m 

1*4:] 

I 044 

Flo 

h>B 

1S47 

1*4n 

lb4«J 

ilGoi) 

k,. 

Jol 

552 

E 


Mitra, Pravas, bsc, 

Mitra, Profulla Kr, MCoin 
Mitra, Prosad Kumar, bcom, llb 

Mitra, Pumendu Kr, ba 
Mitra, Ii&bindra Lai, boom 
Mitra, Ram chandra, BSo 
Mitra, Kamkrishna, bsc 
Mitra, Sailendra Nath, ba 
‘Mit*.,, Sambhu Nath, Boom 
Mitra, Sanat Kumar, ba 
Mitra, Satchida Hari, bso 
Mitra, Satyendranath, Boom 
Mita, Sebabrata, A. M. (Tech) . 
Mitra, SUibnath, BSo 
^Fra, Shibdaa, ba 


U I> Clerk, I T Office 
U D C, Telograph Check Office 

Income-Tax Clerk, Administrator Genl & Off! 
Trustee of West Bengal. 

Accounts Clerk, Eastern Rly 
Asstt- in -Charge, Iron & Steel Control 
UDC, DAGP&T Office 
Clerk, I C I, Ltd 

Acctt, Stewarts and Lloyds of India Private, Ltd 
Clerk, Shaw Wallace & C<*, Ltd 
Chief Supr, Election Dept, Corpon of Cal 
Auditor, AG,WB 

Billing Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Govt, of India, Forms Press, 

UDC.IT Office 

Clerk, Tea Dept. Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co, Private 
Ltd. 


Reeidenoe or place of 
business. 

4, Mango© Dine 

32 Dalhousie Sip*, South 
33, Netuji Subhas Rd 
7 Koilaghat Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 
S Dalhousie Square East 
32 Dalhousie Sqr, South 
Treasury Buildings 
i> & 7 Notaji Subhas Rd 
10 Lindsay Strict 

Writers’ Buildings 

Victoria House 
Writers* Buildings 

3, Govt Place WeHt 

7, Koilaghat Stiooi 

8 , Council House Street 
P-S Bra bourne Road 
Treasury Buildings 

8 , Council House Street 
<M)B Surya Sej) Street 
3 Govt Place West 
77/2 Park Street 

3 Govt Place. West 
Town Hall 
B4, Gil lander Home 
33 Dalhousie. Square 
Treasury B u i J dings 

4, Lyons Range 

8, Council House Street 
8 , Council House Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 
10, Neta.ji Subhas Road 
3, Govt Place West 
P-1 3, Missioji Row Extn 

33, Notaji Subhas Road 
27 & 29, Braboumo Rd 
8 , Council House Street 

33, Dalhousie Square 
South 

3, Govt Place West 
33 Dalhousje Square 
1 Hastings Street, loth 
Floor, Calcutta. 

3, Koilaghat St 

33, Notaji Subhas Road 
7 Koilaghat Stioct 

34, Ohowringhee 

41, Chowringlioo Road 

4. Banks! tall Street 

5, S- N- Bancrjee Road 
Treasury Buildings 
6 , Church Lane 

I TemploStreet 
3 Govt Place West 
1 6, Strand Rom* 



No. Names. 

1 657 Mitra, Shibapada, ba 

1658 Mitra, Shyamapada, boom 

1659 Mitra, Sudhir Chandra, BSc 

1660 Mitra, Sudhirendra, BA 

1661 Mitra, Sudhir K., bsc 

1662 Mitra, Sukumar, Moom 
] 663 Mitra, Sukumar 

1664 Mitra, Suprakash, ba 

1665 Mitra, Surendra Lai 

1666 Mitra Ray, Sudhir Kumar, boom 

1667 Modak, Sunil Kumar, BA 

1668 Modak Nag, Sisir Kumar, ba 

1669 Maitra, Budhendu Jyoti, ba 

1670 Maitra, Samarendra Nath, BA 

1671 Mukhorjee, lndu Bhusan, BA 

1672 Mohammed, Abu, BCom 

1673 Maulik, Bholanath, BA 

1674 Moulik, Salil Kr, ba 

1675 Mukherji, Abani Bhusan, bsc 

1676 Mukhorjee, Achin Kumar, BA 

1677 Mukherji, Ajit K, BCoin 

1678 Mukherjee, Ajoy Kumar, ba 

1679 Mukhorjee, Ajitendra, BCom 

1680 Mukherji, Amal Bhusan, boom 

1681 Mukherji, A K, bcoiu 

1682 Mukhorjee, Amal Kr, MCom 

1683 Mukhorjee, Ainarondra Nath, BA, 

BL 

1684 Mukherji, Amarendra Nath, ba 

1685 Mukherjoo, Arnar Prosad, MSc . . 

1686 Mukherji, Amiya Copal, bsc 

1687 Mukherji, Amiya Jiban, ba 

1688 Mukherjee, Ananda Mohan, BA . . 

1689 Mukherjee, Anil Bhusan, mabt .. 

1690 Mukherji, Anil Krishna, Boom . . 

1691 Mukherjoo, Anil Kumar, BSo 

1692 Mukherji, Anil Kumar, ma, bt . . 

1693 Mukherjee, Anu Ranjan, bsc 

1694 Mukherjee, Aparesh Chandra, ba 

1695 Mukherji, Arun Kumar, ba 

1696 Mukherji, Arun Prosad, ba 

1697 Mukherjee, Arup Kumar, MA 

1698 Mukherji, Ashim Kumar, bso . . 

1699 Mukherjee, Ashutosh, BSc, BCom 

1700 Mukherjee, Asit B&ran, MA 

1701 Mukherji, Asit Kumar, ba 

1702 Mukherji, Ba m an d aa, ba * « 


76 

Style or calling. 

Clerk, Mackimion Mackenzie & Co, Private Ltd 
Inspector, Collection Dept, Corpn of Cal 
Executive Officer, Controller of Import & Export 
U 1) C, DAG.T & T Office 
U D Clerk, Govt of India Stationery Office 
Clork, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
Hd Ckjrk, Contract Dept, Statesman 
Section Head, Martin- Burn Ltd 

Clerk, Eire Department, The South British 
Assurance Co, Ltd 

Auditor, A G, W B 
L D Asstt, Homo (Poll — C R) Dept 

Asstt, Local Self- Govt. & Panchayats Dept., West 
Bengal 

Auditor, A G, W B 
U D C, Income Tax Office 
Auditor, A G Bengal 

U D C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
U D C, D A G P & T Office 
L I) Asstt, Board of Revenue 
Ditto 

F Ins Gr III, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 
Clerk, Gr 11, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A G, W B 
U D C, Govt of India Forms Stores 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
U D Clerk, Tea Board 
Clerk B, C E S C Ltd 
Jr H A, Home (Passport) Dept 

Stock Verifier, Controller of Coal Accounts 
Demonos, Surendra Nath College 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

Asstt, Local Self-Government & Panchayats 

U D C, D A G, P & T Office 

Asstt Teacher, Metropolitan Institution 

Aoott, A G’s Office 

D & W Br Clerk, Commissioner of Excise 

Asstt, Imperial Chemical Industries (India), Ltd 

U D Clerk, Office of 1 T Office, W B 

Jr Clerk, Coal Board 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, T H IV, West Bengal 

U D C, D A G, P & T Office 

Asstt, Calcutta Improvement Trust 

LDC, Home (Transport) Department 

Clerk, E Ely 

U D C, Chief Auditor’s Office, Eastern Rly 
Asstt Supdt, A-G’s Office, B K Sec •• 


Residence or plaoe of 
business. 

16, Strand Road 
5, S. N. Banerjee 
4, Esplanade East 
7 Koilaghat Street 

3, Church Lane 

8, Council House Street 

4, Chowringhee 
12, Mission Row 

10, Netaji Subhas Hoad 

Treassary, Building 
Writers Buildings 
Writers* Buildings 

Treasury Buildings 
4 Hastings Street 
Treasury Buildings 
33 Dalhousie Square 
7 Koilaghat Street 
Writers’ Buildings 
Ditto. 

32 Dalhousie Nqr South 
8, Council Bouse Street 
Treasury Buildings 
166 Dhurumtola Street 
8, Council House Street 
27 & 29, Brabourne Rd j 
Victoria Hoiiho 
11A Free School Street 

1, Council House Street 

24-2 Mahatma Gaiid^ 
Road 

8, Council House Ktroet 
Writers’ Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Street 
39, Sankar Ghose Lane 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
34, Chowringhee 
3, Govt. Plaoe West 
1, Council House Street 
Treasury Building** 
Treasury Building 8 
7 Kailaghat Street 

10, Netftji Subhas ft* 
Writers’ Building* 
Eastern Railway 
16, Strand Read 
Treasury Building* 



/ Names. 

)• 


1)3 Mukherjee, Basudev, MA 

(M . Mukherji, Benode Behari, ba 

, r> Mukherjee, Bonoy Bhusan, BA . . 

(>6 Mukherji, Bharat Kumar, ba . . 
(l 7 Mukherji, Bhowani P, ba 
|)S Mukherji, Bibhu Deb, ma 

Mukherjee, Bidyut Kumar, BA . . 

,o Mukherjee, Bijoly Bhusan, BSe . . 

! i Mukherjee, Bijoy Kumar 

j.i Mukherjee, Bimal Kumar, Bcom. 

13 Muklierji, Bimalananda, ma 

14 Mukherji, Bimalendra Kanta, 

Boom. 

■ 1 , Mukherjee, Banldm Behari, be . . 

Mukherjee, Birendra Bejoy, BA 
;i; Mukherji, Birendra Nath, ba 
“IS Mukherji, B K, bsc 
■ jll Mukherjee, Bishnupada, BCom . . 
■•»0 Mukherji, Biswanath, ba 
, 21 Mukherjee, Biswanath, BSc 
;22 Mukherji, Biswanath, BA 
■J:; Mukherjee, Chunchal Kumar, BA 
“21 Mukherjee, Chitta Mohan, BSe . . 

;2, Mukherjee, Chittaranjan, MCom 

;2»» Mukherji, D, ba 

727 Muklierji, Dayamay, Bse 

72s Muklierji, Debnath, ba (Hons) . . 

jjj'.i Muklierji, Debidas, Ma 

pi Mukherji, Devapriya, ma, oa, 

LLB 

.11 Mukherjee, Dhruba Kumar, ba . . 
Mukherji, Dliwajadhari, ma 
M ukluu jee, Dilip Kumar, BSc 
Mukherjee, Dilip Kumar, bsc 
"■5'i Mukherjee, Dilip Kumar, BSc 
^ Muklierji, Durgadas, bsc 
M ukherji, Fatick Ch, ba 
^ Mukherji, G B, bsc 
^ Mukherji, Girindradev, ba 
M uklueji, Gopi Mohan, MCom 
' 41 Mukherjee, Gora Chand, MCom . . 
*1- Mukherjee, Harakali, BSe 

Mukherjee, Hara Kumar, BSe . . 
^ Mukherji ITarendra Nath 
d ' Mukherjee, Hari Charan, BCora . . 
^ Mukherji, Haripada, ma 

Mukherjee, Ilirendra Nath, MA . . 
Mukherjee, Hiron Kr, BSc 
^ Mukherjee, Hrishikesh, BA 
111 Mukherji, Jagannath, ba 

Mukherji, Janardan, ba 
^ Mukherjee, Jatindra Nath, BA . . 
L' Mukherjee, Jayanta Kr, BCom . . 

F Mukherji, Jyotirmoy, Boom 

\ Mukherji, Jyotsna Nath, ba bt 

Mukherji, Kali Dhan, bsc , . . 

Mukherjee, Kaliprosad, BA 


77 

Style or palling. 

U D C, Income Tax Office 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U D C, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 
Asstt, Eastern Bank, Ltd 

Ledger Keeper, Standard Vacuum Oil Co, Ltd 
Supdt, Board of Secondary Education 
Sub Head, E Rly 
Acctt, DAG.P&T Office 
Asstt Shaw Wallace & Co, Ltd 
Clerk, Williamson, Magor & Co, Ltd 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Assistant, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 

Asstt Engineer, Martin-Burn, Ltd 
UDC, DAG, P&T Office 
Supervisor Clerk. C E S C, Ltd 
L D Clerk, Tea Board 
U D C, DAG.P&T Office 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
U D C, State Trading Corpn of India Ltd 
L D Asstt, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U D C, D A G, P & T Office 
Demonos, Surendra Nath College 

Inspector, Income Tax Office 
U D Clerk, Tea Board 
U D Clerk , D A-G, P & T Office 
Clerk, Grade 11, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A G’s Office, West Bengal 
Staff Asstt, Reserve Bank of India 

Supdt, Board of Secondary Education 

Acctt, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Inspector, Income Tax Office 

Auditor, A G, West Bengal 

Chemist, West Bengal Public Health 1-aby 

Supdt, A-G’s Offioe, A C II, West Bengal 

U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 

U D Clerk, Tea Board 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

Clerk B, C E S C Ltd 

U D C, D A G, P & T Office 

U D C, D A G, P & T Office 

Hd Clerk, Macnoill & Barry, Ltd 

Inspector, Income Tax Offioe 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, T H IV, West Bengal 

U D C, D A G, P & T Office 

U D C, Income Tax Office 

Jr Hd Asstt, Medical Br, Health Dept 

S G Clerk, Telegraph Check Offioe 

L D Clerk, Tea Board 
Auditor, A G Bengal 
U D C, Telegraph Check Office 
U D Clerk, I) A-G, P & T Office 
Asstt, Teacher, Hindu School 

Accounts Clerk, Alkali & Chemical Corpn of India 

Ltd. 

Clerk, E Rly 


Residence or place of 
business. 

P-7 Chowr inghee Square 
Treasury Buildings 
32 Dalhousie Sqr, South 
14, Notaji Subhas Road 

6, Church Lane 
77/2, Park Street 
Eastern Rly House 
7 Koilaghat. Street 
4, Bankshall Street. 

4 Mangoo Lane 
Treasury Buildings 
23B, Notaji Subhas 

Road . 

Mercantile Buildings 
7 Kailaghat Street 
Victoria Mouse 
27 & 29, Brabourne Rd 
7 Koilaghat. Street 
8, Council House Street 
32 Dalhousie Sqr, Soutfti 
Treasury Buildings 
7 Kailaghat Stmel 
24/2 Mahatma Gandhi 
Road 

P-7 Chowringhee Square 
27 & 29, Brabourne Rd 

7, Koila-ghat Street 

8, Couneil House Street 
Treasury Buildings 

8, Conneil House Street 

77/2, Bark Street 
Treasury Buildings 
3 Govt Place West 
Treasury Buildings 
Chitta ran jan Avenue 
Treasury Buildings 
7, Koilaghat. Street 
27 & 29, Brabourne Rd 
Treasury Buildings 
8, Council House Street 
Victoria House 
7 Koilaghat Street 
7 Koilaghat Street 
2, Fair lie Place 
P-7 Chowringhee Square 
Treasury Buildings 
7 Koilaghat Street 
P-7 Chowringhee Square 
Writers’ Buildings 

33, Dalhousie Square 
South 

27 <Sr 29, Brabourne Rd 
Treasury Buildings 
33 Dalhousie Square 
7, Koilaghat Street 
1-B, Bankim Chatterjee 
Street. 

34, Chowringhee 
Eastern R/y House 



78 


No. Names. 

1768 Mukherji, Kalyan Kr, ba 

1759 Mukherjee, Kuslia bran jail, BSc . . 

1760 Mukherji, Kiran Chandra, bsc . . 

1761 Mukherji, Krishna Kanta, booth 

1762 Mukherjee, Krishna Mohan, BSc 

1763 Muknerji, Kshetra Mohan, ba 

1764 Mukherji, Lakshmi M, ba, bl . . 

1765 Mukherji, Lai Gopal, bsc 

1766 Mukherjee, Madhusudan, BA 

1767 Mukherjee, Makhan Lai, BSc, BL 

1768 Mukherji, Manash Kumar, ba 

1769 Mukherjee, Manudas, MBT 

1770 Mukherjee, Milan Chandra, BA . . 

1771 Mukherji, Mohini Mohan, ba 

1772 Mukherji, Monoranjan, ba 

1773 Mukherjee, Mnnal K, BSc 

1774 Mukherji, Mrityunjoy II, ba 

1775 Mukherjee, Murari Mohan, BCmn 

1776 Mukherji, Nalini llanjan, ba 

1777 Mukherji, N. R., ma (Com) 

1778 Mukherjt^e, Nilratan, BC*om 

1779 Mukherji, Ninvpada, bsc 

1780 Mukherji, Nirmal Kumar, Boom. . 

1781 M uk ln^rjee. Nirmal Kumar, BSc 

1782 Muklierji, Nirmal Kanti, Boom 

1783 Mukherji, Nirmalendu, ma 

1784 Mukherji, Nirnialeiulii, ma 

1785 Mukherji, Nishapati, booth 

1786 Mukherjee, Pannalal, BA 

1787 Mukherjee, Paritosh, BSe 

1788 Mukherji, P K, ncom 

1789 Mukherjee, Par bat i Nath, BA 

1790 Mukherji, Parbati Sankar, ncom 

1791 Mukherjee, Parosh (Chandra, MA 

1792 Mukherjee, Pashupati Nath, MA 

1793 Mukli3i*ji, Pasluipati, ha 

1794 Mukherjee Prabir Kumar, BCom 

1795 Mukherjee, Pranab Kumar, MA 

1796 Mukherjee, Promode Kr,JBCom . . 

1797 Mukherji, Pravat Kr, BL 

1798 Muklierjee, Rabindra Kumar, MA 

(Coin) 

1799 Mukherji, Rabindra Nath, ba 
1900 Mukherji, Babindra Nath, Moom 

1801 Mukherji, Radhapada, BA 

1802 Mukherji, Rad ha Raman, Boom 

1803 Mukherji, llaj it K, Boom 

1804 Mukherjee, Ramchandra, BA . . 

1805 Mukherji, Rebati Ranjan, bsc 

1806 Mukherji, Sachindra N, bsc 

1807 Mukherjee, Sachchidananda, MSc 

1808 Mukherji, Sailendra Natli, bl . . 

1809 Mukherji, Sailesh Ch, ba 

1810 Mukherjee, Salil Kumar, BSc 

1811 Mukherjee, Sanat Kumar, MA . . 

1812 Mukherjee, Sanat Kumar, BA 

1813 Mukherjee, Samir Chandra, BSc 

1814 Mukherji, Sanjit Kumar, bsc 

1815 Mukherjee, Sankar Lal, MA 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
U I> C, Telegraph Check Office 
SGC,D A-G, P & T Office 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Hd Asstt, Deep Sea Fishing, Board, West Bengal . . 
U D 0, D A-G, P & T Office 
Marketing Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
Asstt, Local Self-Government & Panchayats 
U D C, D A G, P & T Office 
Inspector, Election Dept, Corpn of Caloutta 
U D Clerk, Controller of Coal Accounts Office 
Asstt Teacher, Oriental Seminary 
Inspector, Collection Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 
Clerk, Lloyds Bank, Ltd 
Clerk, Improvement Trust 
IT D C, D A G, P & T Office 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
U I) C, D A G, P & T Office 

IT D Asstt, Home (Transport) Dept, West Bengal 
U I) Clerk, Tea Board 

Hd Clerk, Associated Electrical Industries (India) 
Pte Ltd- 

H A, Government of India Stationery Office 

IJ D Clerk, Income Tax Office 

II DC, Income Tax Office 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 

Clerk, Grade TI, Reserve Bank of India 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

U I) Clerk, Telegraph Cheek Office 


8, Council House 
33 Dalhousie fcJ<|ii ar e 

7, Koilaghat Street 

8, Council Route Str^ 
33 Chittaranjan A\> n , 
7, Koilaghat Street 

6, Church Lane 
Writers’ Buildings 
7 Kailaghat Street 
5 S N Bailer jee 

1 , Council House Stre< 
336 Upper Chitp.re ] 

5, S.N. Banerjee Roi 
29, Netaji Sublias K 
10, Netaji Sublias ik 
7 Kailaghat Street 

7, Koilaghat Street 
7 Kailaghat Street 
Writers’ Buildings 
27 & 29 Brabourne I 

6, Misson Bov - 

3, Church Lano 
P-8, Rrabovvrne Uoa 
4 Hastings Street 
8, Council Mouse St 
S, Council Mouse St 
Treasury Building!' 
33, Dalhousie Squi 
South. 


U D C, D A G, P & T Office 
Auditor, A-G, West Bengal 
U D Clerk, Tea Board 
1) D C, Income Tax Office 
IT D Asstt, Home Dept, Press, West Bengal 
Accounts Cl, Avery & Co . . 

Teacher, Surendra Nath Collegiate School 

Clerk, Williamson Magor & Co 

Auditor, A-G. W. B- 

U D C, D A G, P & T Office 

U D C, Telegraph Check Office 

Clerk, Mills Dept, Jardine Henderson, Ltd 

1 1 D C, D A G, P & T Office 


7 Kailaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 
27 & *29, Brabourne! 
4 Hastings Si feel 
Writers’ Buildings 
Avery House, Water 
Street. 

24/2 M aha Mint Ga 
Road 

4, Mangoe Lane 
Treasury Building# 

7 Kailaghat Streel 
33 Dalhousie Squirt 
4, Clive Row 
7 Kailaghat Street 


Hd. Assistant, Geological Survey of India 
U D Clerk, I) A-G, P & T Office 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
Clerk, Gr I, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A-G W. B- 

Clerk, Jr C E S C, Ltd . . • • 

L D C, Government of India Stationery Office 

U D C, Income Tax Office 

Court Clerk, Calcutta Improvement Trust 

Financial Acctg, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 

UDC, Office of CIT, West Bengal 

Auditor, A G Bengal 

Asstt, Offioe of I T O, S I B 

UDC, DAG, P&T Office 

Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 

UDC, Office of Income-Tax, West Bengal 


27, Chowr Higher 
7, Koilaghat Street 

7, Koilaghat Street 

8, Council Mouse Sti 
8, Council Mouse St 
Treasury Buildings- 
Victoria House 


3, Church Lane 
I>-7 Chowringh^ Sq 
10, Netaji Subhas R 


jane 

inghee St] 
.inkling* 
.lighee Sq 

Street 



79 


Ho, ' 


Names. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 
business. 


K i6 Mukherji, Santa Gopal, Boom 
Si 7 Mukherji, Santimoy, BOom 
HlS Munsi, Masiruddin, BA 
Mukherjee, Satinath, BSc 
S20 Mustafy, Debabrata, BA 

^*>1 Mukherjee, Sasanka Mohan ,MCOM 
Mukherjee, Sudhansu Shekhar, 

H 23 Mukherji, Satish Ch, ba 
8 24 Mukherjee, Satish Chandra, B.A. 
8 :> r , Mukherji, Satya Ch, Boom 
8 20 Mustafy, Deb Kumar, BA 
| 8 27 Mukherji, Satya Ranjan, ba 

[82H Nag, Subrata Kumar, BA 

1829 Mukherjee, Shibapada, M(bm 

1830 Mukherjee, Shibram , BA 

1831 Mukherjee, Shyama Charan, bso 


1832 Mukherji, Shyamadas, msc, bt . . 

1833 Mustafy, Suprabhat, MCOM 

1834 Mukherji, Sisir Kumar, Boom 
183 r > Mukherjee, Satya Narayan, BSC 
1830 Mukherji, Surondra Nath, Boom 

1837 Mukherji, Subhoranjan, Boom 

1838 Mukherjee, Sudhangshu Kumar, 

BSC 

1839 Nag, PariYnal, BSC 

1840 Mukherjee, Stidhanshii Sekhar, 

BA. 

1841 Munwhi, Suprasauna, BA 

1842 Mukherji, Sukhamoy, ma 

1843 Mukherjee, Sarit Kumar, BA 


1844 Mukherjee, Sunil Chandra, BCOM 
1843 Mukherjee, Siddhoswar, B.A. 

1840 Mukherji, Sunil Kumar, ma 
[JS47 Mukherjee, Sunil Krishna, BA - . 
1848 Mukherji, Nurath Kumar, ba 


1849 
ls;>o 
1831 
18;, 2 
is;, ;i 

1854 

1855 
1830 
1 837 

18,‘S 


Mukherji, Surja Kumar, Boom . . 
Mukherji, Suresh Ch, bsc 
Mukherji, Susanta Kumar, ba 
Muklierjee, S 1\ B(X)M 
Mukherjee, Saroj Kumar, BA 
Muklierjee, Swapan Kuman, BA 
Mukherji, Tapan Kumer, ba 
Mukherji, Tapan Mohan, bsc 
Mukherji, Taraknath, BCom 
Mukherji, Taramohan, Boom 


Mukherji, Tarapada, ba 
Mukherji, Tulshi Narayan, BA . . 
Mukherji, Tridib Kumar, ba 
. V Muk her jets Umaprasad, MCOM . . 
^ Mukhoty, G N, bso 
W Mundi, Jogeswar, ba 
^ Mukherjee, Sudhir K, BSC 
Mukherjee, Sisir Kumar 
' Murshed, Syed Mutlab, BA 
I J? Muklierjee, Santi Kumar, MCOM 
Muklierjee, Swadesh Ranjan, BA 
l8"i ^ u kherjeo, Sushil Kumar, BA . . 
1 Muklierjee, Sukharanjan, BA 


Senior Machine Operator, C E S C Ltd 

Clerk, Gr [I, Reserve Bank of India 

Dial Organiser, National Savings Organisation, W B 

U 1> C, Office of C 1 T, West Bengal 

U 1) C, State Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd 

U D C, Income Tax Office 

Asstt Master, City Collegiate School 

L D C, Government r>f India Stationery Office 

Ins, Income Tax Office 

Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank of India 

Clerk B, C E S C Ltd 

Clerk, B 1 Accts Drptt, Mackinnon Mackenzie 
& Co, Ltd 

D A Marketing Officer, Agricultural Marketing, W 
Bengal 

Auditor, A-G, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G, West Bengal 
Demonstrator, Surondra Nath College 

Asstt Master, Scottish Church School 
U l) C, D A-G, P & T Office 

Stores Clerk, Alkali <fc Chemical Corpn of India Ltd 

Clerk B, C E S C Ltd 

Clerk, Gr 11, Reserve Bank of India 

Bill Clerk, Stewarts & Llyods of India 

Clerk, Shaw Wallace «fe Co, Ltd 


Victoria House 
8, Council House Street 
Hindusthan Buildings 
P-7, Chowri nglice Square 
32, Dalhousie Square 
South 

4, Hastings Street 
13, Surya Sen Street 

3, Church Lane 

4, Hastings Street 

8, Council House Street 
Victoria House 
10, Strand Road 

Writers* Buildings 

Treasury Buildings. 
Treasury Buildings. 

24/2, Mahatma Ghandhi 
Road. 

73, Cornwallis Street 

7, Koilaghat Street. 

34, Ohowringhoe 
Victoria House 

8, Council House Street 
41 , Chowringhee Road 
4, Bank shall Street 


Teacher, Hindu Academy 
Auditor, A-G, West Bengal 


50, Amherst Street 
Treasury Buildings. 


Hd Asstt, Geological Survey of Tndia 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
E Ins Gr III, State Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd 

IT 1) C, T) A-G, P T Office 
U D C. 1) A-G, I* & T Office 
Supdt. Geological Survey of India 
Auditor, A-G, West Bengal 

Clerk, C S V & Loans. Sun Life Assurance Co of 
Canada 

Section Head, Martin -Burn, Ltd 
IJ D Clerk, 1> A-G, P & T Office 
Asstt, Finance Dept 
Aeett, Govt of India Forms Press 
Auditor, A-G, Bengal 
U 1> Asstt, Education Dept 
Auditor, A-G’h Office, West Bengal 
Surveyor, Land Acquisition Branch 
Asstt, Finance Dept 

Clerk, Acts Dept., Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co., 
Private Ltd. 

Clerk, Bengal Chamber of Commerce 

U D Clerk, D A-G, V & T Office 

IT D Clerk, Chief Auditor’s Office, Eastern Rly 

U D C, Tricorne Tax Office 

L D Clerk, Tea Board 

Auditor, A-G’s Office 

U D C, Telegraph Cheek Office 

U D Asstt, Commerce & Industries Dept 

Asstt Supdt, Hogg Market Dept, Corpn of Calcutta 

Dist Organiser, National Savings Organisation, WB 

Clerk B, C E S C Ltd 

Offg Hd Cl T, W B Fire Service 

Steno, State Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd 


27, Chowringhee 
Treasury Buildings 

32, DalhouHie Square 
South 

7, Koilaghat Street 
7, Koilaghat Street. 

27, Chowringhee 
Treasury Buildings. 

23B, Netaji Subhas Road 

Mercantile Buildings 
7, Koilaghat Street 
Writers’ Buildings 
1 , Temple Street 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings. 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Building 
Writers Buildings 
1b, Strand Road 

(>, Netaji Subhas Road 
7, Koilaghat Street, 
lb, Strand Road 
3, Govt Place West 
27 <fe 29, Brabourne Rd 
Treasury Buildings 

33, Dalhousie Square 
Writers’ Buildings 
5, S. N. Banerjee Rd 
Hindusthan Buildings 
Victoria House 

13D, Free School Street 
32, Dalhousie Square 
South 


N 

^ ^bi, Janab Wahidar, BSc 
?J a g, Dhruba Ranjan, Boom 
?J a g> Jalad Baran, BCom 

Mrigendra Nath, BCom 
Nalini Kanto, ba 
M uthuswami, V, BA 


Pranab Kumar, ba 
S ukumar Chandra, BSC 
Shyamal Kumar, ba 


Sr Cl, Contrl of Stores, Oopn of Calcutta 
Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, The Mercantile Bank of India, Ltd 
Auditor, A-G, West Bengal 
Dy Asstt Valuer, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
S G C, State Trailing Corpn of (I) Ltd 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Inspector, Income Tax Office •• ** 

Accts Asstt, Stewart & Lloyds of India Private Ltd.. 


5, 8. N- Banerjee Road. 

8, Council House Street 
Mercantile Bank Bu i ldings 
Treasury Buildings 
10, Netaji Subhas Road 
32, Dalhousie Square 
South 

Treasury Buildings 
3, Govt Place West 
41, Chowringhee % 



80 


Ho. Names. 


Style or oalling. 


Resldenoe or pla^e of 
business. 


1881 Nag Chowdhury, Hemendra 

Prosad, ma 

1882 Nair, Sukumaran, BSC 

1883 Nandi, Ajoy Kumar, MA 

1884 Nandi, Amulya Bhusan, BA 

1885 Nandi, Bibhuti BluiHan, Boom 
1885 Nandi, Biswanath, ba 

1887 Nandi, Chittaranjan, BA 

1888 Nandi, Hnramba Kumar, BCOm 

1889 Nandi, Jitcmdra Nath, ba 

1890 Nandi, Nrityagopal, ma 

1891 Nandi, Pashupati, Boom 

1892 Nandi, Piyus Kanti, BSC 

1893 Nandi, Rama Prosad, ma 

1894 Nandi, Satya Gobinda, BSC 

1895 Nandi, Katya Karan, MA(com) 

1890 Nandi Majumdar. Tarun Ch, Bsc 

1897 Narakrishan, C 1 S, BSC 

1898 Naiayari, PH, BA, BOOM 

1899 Naskar, Ajit Kumar, ba 

1900 Naskar, Kamal Ch, BA 

1901 Nath, D M, bso 

1902 Nath, Dwijondra Nath, BA(H) . . 

1903 Nath, Harcaidra Chandra, bsc, . . 

Boom 

1904 Nath, Rare Krishna, ba 

1905 Nath, Manindra Kr, ba 

1900 Nath, Mauomohan, ba 

1907 Nawn, P C, ba 

1908 Neogi, H irondra Nath, mso 

1909 Neogi, Ajit Kumar, Boom 

1910 Niyogi, Ajit Kumar, ba 

1911 Niyogi, Anil Chandra, ba 

1912 Neogi, Haripada, BCOM 

1913 N<^ogi, Pabitresh, BSO 

1914 Neogi, Sib Kumar, BSC 

1915 Neogi, Sunil Kumar, BSC 
1910 Newaz, M Khoda, MA 


Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 

Acott, 1) A-G, P & T 
IT 1) C, 1) A-G, PAT 

Asstt, Life Ins Corpn of India Oriental Govt Socurity 
Life Assurance ( 

Clerk, Actts Dept, Mackiimon Mackenzie A Co 
Private Ltd. 

Clerk (Books Dept), The Hongkong & Shanghai 
Banking Corporation 
Hd Clerk, Income Tax Office 
P /Goods Clerk, Rallis (India), Ltd 

Accountant, Martin Burn, Ltd 
Inspector, I T Office, West Bengal 

Clerk, Lloyds Bank Ltd 

U J) C, Telegraph Check Office 

Clerk, Tata Iron & Steel (To, Ltd 

U 1) C, 1) A-G, P & T 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 

Clerk, Gr f 1, Reserve Bank of India 
IT I)C, I) A-G, P & T 

F Ins Gr III, State Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd 

Auditor, A-G, West Bengal 
U DC, D A-G, P & T 


8, Council House Street 

7, Kailagliat Stiv<.<, 

7, Kailagliat 8tiv«*t 
2, Clive Row 

16, Strand Road 

31, Dalliousic Square 

P-7, Chow ringhoc Squa 
16, Hare Street 

12, Mission Row 
4, Hastings St net. 

29, Netaji Suhhas I tom 
33, Dalhousio Square 
23B, Netaji Kubha* koai 

7, Kailaghat StnM t 

H, Council House St reel 

8, Council Mouse Street 
7, Kailagliat St -r<wU, 

32, Dalhousu- Sijuai 

South 

Treasury Buildings. 
7, Kailagliat Street 


L D Clerk, Tea Board 
Acctt, D A-G, V & T 

U D Clerk, Income Tax Office 


27 & 29, Brahouni' Hd 
7, Kailagliat Street 

3, Govt. Place West 


Acctt, A-G’s Office, West Bengali 

Dealing Clerk, Joint Chief Controller of Import and 
Export 

Clerk, Gr T, Reserve Bank of India 
IT D Clerk, Tea Board 

Investigator, Commerce A Industrie Department 
Supdt, Board of Secondary Education 
Clerk, Gr I, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Calcutta Improvement Trust 
Inspector, Income Tax Office 
U DC, I) A-G, PAT 
Auditor, A-G, Bengal 
U T) 0,1) A-G, PAT 

Law Asstt, Commissioner of Wakfs, West Bengal . . 


Treasury Buildings 
4, Esplanade East 

8, C 'nuncil I Inns* Stm*t 
27 29, Bra/hourne Hd 

Writers’ Building 
77/2, Park Ktreel 
8, Council M« mim’ Stmt 
10, Netaji Sublias Kou< 
3, Govt PJnci* Bcsl 
7, Kailagliat Sired 
Treasury Building** 

7, Kailagliat Street 
0/2, Madan Street 


P 


1917 Pakrashi, Arun Kr, BCom 

1918 Pal, Balai Chand, ba 

1919 Pal, Barendra Narayan, bso 

1920 Pal, Bhabendra Chandra, ma 

1921 Pal, Biswanath, bsc 

1922 Pal, Haradhone, boom 

1923 Paul, Hrishikesh, BA 

1924 Pal, Imlu Bhusan, Boom 

1925 Pal, Jiban Krishna, BSC 

1926 Pal, Jitendra Nath, BCOM 

1927 Pal, Jitendra Nath, ba, oa, u,b 

1928 Pal, Joydeb, BA 

1929 Pal, Kanai Lai, ba 


Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Education Directorate 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Auditor. A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, I C 1 (India), Ltd 

Clerk, Balmer l^awrie & Co, Ltd 
IJD C, D A-G, P & T 

Clerk, Gr 1, Reserve Bank of India 
U D C, D A-G, P & T 
U D C, D A-G, P & T 

Clerk, Gr I, Reserve Bank of India 

Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 

Jr Technical Asstt, Office of the Registrar of Coin- 


8, Council House Stree 
Writers’ Building 


Treasury Budding* 


Treasury Building* 
34, Chowringliuc 


21, Netaji Subhas 

7, Kailagliat ^reet 

8, Council House 8 tlf * 
7, Kailagliat 8t.ee 

7, Kailagnat 8 tiiH*t 


8 , Council House St* 

77/2, Park St™* 

P29 # Mie« ion ^ 


\ 



N«snes. 


Style or calling. 


Residence or place of 

l)UHinC88. 


^ Pal, Kedar Nath, ba 
\l Pal, Kishori Mohan, ba 
v > pal, Lakshman Chandra, BA 
•3 Pal, Lalit Mohan, ba 
34 Pal, Madhusndan, Mcom 
p., 1 , Maiioj Kumar, BSC 
;t; ]» a l, Monoranjan, BA 

.7 p;i,l, Monoranjan, iu om 
;S ]> a i, Monoranjan, BA 
{1> i» a l, Nadior ( 'hand, MA 

40 pal, Narayan Chandra, BConi 

41 Pal, Nilmony, BCOM 

4 > X’al, Paresh Chandra, BA 
,3 Pal, Prasanta Kutnar, MA 
\\ Pal, Rainesh N, bsc 
[:> Pal, llanjii Krishna, BSC 
It; Paul, Kaktipada, BA 
47 Pul, Shy am S, Mcom 
4S Pal, Subhas Kumar, BSc 
49 pal. Subodh Krishna, bsc 
• )H pal. Sudhir Ranjan, Bcom 
,1 Paul Chaudhuri, Anil Kumar, 

BSc, BCom. 

,3 Pal Ohaiidhuri, Sudhir Kr, BSC . . 

palit. A. K., ba 
,4 palit, Ajil Kumar, BSc 
Palit, Nagondra Nath, BA 
;>i> Panchanan, Ashim Kr, MA . . 
',7 piin<l«*ya, ltam Sewak, MAs 
:>s Pandit, Bliupondra Narayan, ba 
r>p Panja, ILK, BA 
IMi panja, Murari Mohan, BA 
Ml Parthasariithv, B, bcoiu 
W1 Pat hak, Atul Ch, use 
Wo Bathak, llara Kumar, ba 
DM Pathak, Sushil Ranjan, MOoin 
ilC Paha, llajcndiu Nath, ba 
M Paul, Basudov Charan, BSC 
!H)7 Paul, B. K. 

^ Paul, Pulin Bohan, BSC 
^ Piplai, Chi ttaran jail, BSC 

Puddar, Kshitish ('handra, ba . . 
lNxIdar, Monoranjan, BSC 
'I"- Poddar, Had ha, Hainan. FU'om 
Podflar, Sridhar Kumar, BSc 
!, d Poral, Pravat Kumar, BSC 
lJ/,) I’hunanick, Khagendra N, BA . . 
^ Pramaidck, Ramakanto, ba 
^ 1 Brain anick, Batan Ch, ma 


Clerk, Grade I, Reserve Bank ol India 
U D C, Stationery Office 

Asstt, Land Acqn Br, Land & Land lie venue Dept 
Asstt. Land Acquisition Branch 
Asst, Lovelock A i Anris 

V I) C, IT Office 

IT l) C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
Auditor, A-G's Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, E Kly 

U 1) C, Govt of India Korins Stores 
Clerk, (Jr II, Reserve Bank ol India 
U T) C, Telegraph Chock Office 
U D C, L> A-G, P T Office 
Asstt Teacher, Oriental Seminary 
Clerk, Or 11, Heserve Bank of India. 

II 1 ) C, 1 ) A-G, P & T Office 

Asstt, Hecpiisition Br, Land and Land ltev Dept 
Audit Clerk, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 
IMHMT Office, Went Bengal 
IT T) Clerk, 1) A-G, P & T Office 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Inspector, Collection Dept, Corpn ol Calcutta . . 

IT DC, IT Office 

Selection Grade, U D Clerk, Tea Board 
1 1 1) Asstt, Education Deptt 
LJ D C, Telegraph Chock Office 
U I) C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
Asstt Teacher, St Xavier's Collegiate School 
Asct.t, Education Directorate 
S G C, State Trading Corpn of (l) Ltd 
Hd Cl, I T Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P T Office 
Clerk, The, Indo Burma Petroleum Co . . 

Clerk, (Jr 1L, Reserve Bank ol India . . 

Clerk, Grade 11, Reserve Bank ol India 

V 1 > C, 1 ) A-( J , P & T Office 

Asstt Engr, Drainage, Corpn of (Calcutta 
U DC, D A-G, 1* iV T Office 
U D Asstt, Medical Br, Health Dept . . 

Clerk, Gr II, Re.ser\ e Bank of India 
IT DC, 1) A-G, r iV T Office 
Clerk, (Jr II, Reserve Bank el India 
U D C, 1 T Office, West, Bengal 

V D C, D A-G, V iV T Office 
Clerk B, C K S C Ltd 

Asstt, Calcutta Improvement Trust. 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve*. Bank of India 


^ Brodhan, Manimoy, BA 
^ Brodhan, Motilal, bsc „ 

^ Burkayastha, Bojon Beliary, 

mcom 

p Burkait, Chittaranjan, bsc 

Butatunda, SaUehdra N, Mcom . . 


U D C, Telegraph Cheek Office 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & r B O fth-o 
L D C, Home (Transport) Dept 


Auditor, A G’s Office 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve* Bank of India 


S. Council House Street 
3 Church Lane 
Writers’ Buildings 
Writers* Buildings 

4 , Lyons Range 

3, < Jovt Place West 
33, Dalhousie Square 
f IVeasui\v Buildings 
Eastern Railway House 
100 DJiutiii.iitklla Street 

5, Council House Street 
33, I )alhousie Square 
7, Kailaghat Street/ 

330 Cpjier Chitporo Road 
S, Council House Street 
7, Kailaghat Street. 
Writers 1 Buildings 
B4, ( live Buildings 
3, Govt Place, West 
7, Koilaghat. Street 
S, Council House Street 
ft, S- N. Bailor joc Road 

P-7, (Jhowriughoo Sqr 
27 tV 20, Brabourno Road 
Writers' Buildings 
33, Dalhousio Square 
33, Dalhousie Square 
30 Park Street 
Writer* ’ Buildings 
32 Dalhousie Square 
3, Govt Place, West 
«S, Council House Street 
7, Koilaghat. Street 
S, Nehiji Subhas Hoad. 

<S, Council House Street 
S, Council House Stieofc 
7, Kailaghat Street 
f> S. N. Banerjee Road. 

7, Kailaghat St root 
Writers’ BuiMincs 
S. Council House Str<*et 
7, Kailagli.P Street 
N, Council House St.reot 
3 , Govt Place, West 
7, Kailaghat Street 
Victoria. House 
10 , Nctaji Subhas Hoad 
S, < Council House Street 
33, Dalhousie Square 

7, Koilaghat Street 
Writers’ Buildings 

Treasury Buildings 

8 , Council House Street 
7, Kailaghat £tr«« 



82 


Vo. Names. Style or oalling. Residenoe or piaoe oi 

business. 

R 

11)84 Raha, Prosanta Kr . . UD Clerk, I) A-G, P & T Office . . . . . . 7, Koilaghat 

J 985 Italia, Sail tosh Kumar, BA . . Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal . . . . Treasury BinlffiuLs 

1080 Rahman, Janab Fazlur, BL . . A F S O, F S J)ept, Corpn of Calcutta . . . . 5, S. N. Bancr|.< ); f j 

1087 Rahman, Khalilur, BA . . U 1> C, Telegraph Check Office . . . . 33 Dnlhnuuc s, 1Uit r<l 

1088 Kahamau, Manjur, ba . . Asstt, Home (< i A) Department . . . . Wri tears' linn, Jn,^. 

1080 Raja. Gopalan, R, BA .. U 1> C, State Trading Corpn of (T) Ltd .. 32 Dullmii i, y 

South 

1000 Rajararnau, (IV, BA . . Aeetl , I) A G, P & T Office . . 7 Kailaghal Sin.,.- 

100! Ramanathan, V, BSC . . C l> C, DA G, 1 * T Office . . 7 Kailaghal SI 

1002 Bakshil, Krishna Pada, BRe .. Clerk, (O' 11, Reserve Bank of India .. ..8, Council IIuim Si,- 

1003 Ra.raamurt.hv, V N, BCom .. Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India .. .. S, Council IIuim m 1( 

1004 Raman, Sunderam Veukat . . Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co, Ltd . . . . 4, Bankslml Siii . i 

1005 Ramarao, P, BA . . .. C D C, State Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd . . 32 Dalhou .i- S., 

South 

lOOti Itana, Bojoy Kumar, BSC . . Foreman Gr (V), C E S C Ltd . . . - Victoria lion , 

1007 Jtana, Kunja Behari, Bcom . . Sr Clerk, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd . . 23B, Xel.iji Su 

Road. 

1008 Rao, P S B (ncorn, BL.) . . Asstt, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd . . . . 23B, Nclaji ,mi 

]toa.d. 

1000 ltatnam, M K, BA . . S G C, State Trading Corpn of (1) Ltd . . . . 32 Dalhou >i< " j 

South 

2000 Bay, Ajit Kumar .. Accounts Dept Clerk, Brooke Bond India, Lid .. 2, Metenltr ,sti*et 

2001 Rav, AmaJ Chandra, ba . . Supdt., Reserve Bank of India . . 8, Conned Non • su 

2002 Ray, A. K., ba . . Asst Supdt, Tea Board . 27 <V 20, Brahourm I 

2003 Ray, Amitananda, BSo . . Auditor, A-G, W est Bengal . . . . Treasury BuiMiiil's 

2004 Ray. Amiya Kumar, ma . . Auditor, Ad Ps. Office, Wes- 1 Bengal .. Treasury Buddmj 

2005 Ray, Amiya Kumar (2), MCom Auditor, A-G, West. Bengal . . . . Treasury Buildup 

2000 Ray, Anil Krishna, M A . . Inspector, (Collection Dept, Corpn of Calcutta . . 5, S- X. Bancij<i f,n. 

2007 Roy, Anil Kumar, ba . . Sr. Asstt, Board of Secondary Education .. 77/2, Park Sti<vi 

2008 Ray, Anil Kumar, ba .. Supdt. Reserve Bank of India .. ..8, Conn il H->uv mi 

2000 Raj', Aniniesh, BSC- . . U D C, Income Tax Office, STB . . 3 Gov I Pl.ee \\<*,< 

2010 Ray, Anupam, BCom .. Inspector, Flection Dept, Corpn of Calcutta .. f>. S. X Baiicn*-. J; 

2011 Ray, Armi Gopal, ba . . Meeting Clerk, Calcutta Improvement Trust . . JO, Netaji Suhl„u IS 

2012 Ray, Asliokc Chandra. MA . . Auditor, A-G. West Bengal. . . . - . Treasury Buildings 

201,3 Ray, Ashoke Kumar, BSC . . U I) C, Lricoine Tax Office, SIB . . . . P-S Brahouru< d* <» 

2014 Ray, Asoke Kumar . . . . Asstt, Shaw Wallace & Co, Ltd . - 4, BankGial! M 

2015 Ray, Ashoke Kr, BA . . Asstt, Income Tax Office. SIB . . . . P-7 Chow nngii«* >'\ 

2010 Ray, Atalendu. MA . . . . U I) C, D AG. P # T Office . . . . 7 Kail igli.n Sm.hh 

2017 Iia\ , Bansari Lai, ba . . Ul) Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office . . 7, KoiJaghai ■i ,,< 1 

2018 Roy, Barindra Kr, ba . . U D Clerk, Iron & Steel Control • . • • 33, Netaji Suhlias 1 

2010 Ray, Benny Kumar, BA . . Auditor, A-G ’a Office, West Bengal . . . . Treasury buddmj 

2020 Ray, Benoy Krishna, BSC . . CD C, Income Tax Office. SIB . . . . P-7 Chow i mglie* S, 1 

2021 Bay, Biman Kumai , MA .. Auditor, A-G, Bengal .. .. .. Tieasuiv buddmu 

20' ) 2 lta.v, Bluira.t (Mi, BA . . CD C, Telegraph Chock ( )lh< e . . . . 33 Dalluuisc 8<iu ' ,r 

2023 Ray, Bharat Chandra, BA . . CD C, D A G, P & T Office . . . . 7 Kailagh.o jm <ch 

2024 Bay, Bikasli Chandra., bsc. .. C D Asstt.. Home Dept (Transport) .. . Writers’ Ihiildrio 

2025 Ray, Bimalananda, ba . . Clerk, Gr 1, Besorv e Bank of India . . . . 8, Council 

2026 Bay, Bimal Kumar, ma .. Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal .. .. Treasury Bud'li;a s 

2027 Ray, BimaJOhandsa., BA .. Hd Asstt. Dept of Agriculture & Food Production, Writers* Building 

West Bengal. 

2028 Ray, Bimal Krishna, BA U 1> C, Telegraph Check Office . . . . 33 Dalhmi s S.ju.H' 

2020 Ray, Bimalcndu, BSc . . Asstt, L A Branch, Land and Land Rev Dept . . Writers’ Jpuldinir- 

2030 Ray, Bipiil Chandra, Boom . . Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal .. .. Treasury b'JiMim' 

2031 Ray, Birondra Nath, Boom . . Supdt, Reserve Bank of India . . 8, Coine d Hyu* 

2032 Ray, Bishnupada, MSe .. Clerk, Passage Dept , Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co, 16, Strand P »' 

Private Ltd .. 

2033 Ray, Biswanath, ba .. Clerk, The Mercantile. Bank of India, Ltd .. Mercantile P "* 1 ,MI 

2034 Ray. TJralimapa.la, RA . . IJ 14 O, T.Jagrapli rhixtk Office . . . . 3.'t llaHioUM.- y|U ‘" 

2035 Ray, Brahmendu, ba . . CD Assistant, Reqn Br, Dind & Land Rev Dept. Writers bun 

2036 Ray, Braja Ballav, ba . . Auditor, A-G*s Office, West Bengal . . Treasury Buii ig- 

2037 Ray, Brojendra Kumar, BA, LLB Auditor, A-G*s Office, West. Bengal . . . . Treasury B ,n ( | in ^ 

2038 Ray, Daksliina lianjan . . Asstt, Directorate of Agriculture . . . . Writers Bin 

2030 Ray, Debabrata, ma, bcoiu . . Acett, Elec, Co, Martin Bum Ltd . . 12, Missoii lvm 

2040 Ray, Deb Kumar, bcoiu. . . Ledger Keeper, Grindlays Bank, Ltd . . 6 Church I* 1110 

2041 Rav, Debranjan, BA .. Asstt Supdt, A-G, West Bengal .. .. Tmisur\' _ i; 

2042 Roy, Deb Prosad, boom . . U D Clerk, Iron & Steel Control . . . . 33, Noatji bui^ 

2043 R<\v, Dhirendranath, ba . . Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal . . . . IVoasury l>>n ( f 

2044 Ray, Dilip Narayan, MCOM . . Clerk, E Rly . . . . . . 3 Kailaghal ; - 

2045 Ray, Dinesh Kumar, Boom Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal „ .. Treasury * ll ^ t 

2046 Ray, Dwijendra Lai, BA .. U D C, D A G, P & T Office .. .. 7 Kailaghal 1 



Names* 


83 


Resident* or plaoe of 
business. 



Style or calling. 


2041 Hay, Gobinda, BA 
>04S Kay, Copal Chandra, Boom 
Ray, Gauranga I)ob # BA 


•j !,“)<> Ray, Haripada, BA 
>o;»! Ray, Hari Sankar, hnc, Boom . 
Kay, Hemendra Nath, BA 
Ray, Himadri Bhusan, MA 

,; ( i ;4 , Hirendra Nath, BCOM 

Kay, Hi ran Rrakash, MA 
Kay, TfrisliikoHb, MA 
Ray, J K., ha 

,jl |,ys Kay, Jitcndra Nath, BA 
Kay, Jogesh Chandra 
Hn;o Kav, Jogesh Kumar, ba 

•iMil Kav, Kali Kumar, ma (oom) 
»(M'» J Kay, Kamal Ki 1, BA 

>(Ki;i Ray, Jvamalendu, be, oe 

J 0 U 4 Kav, Kauai, BA 

,'iMia Kay, Kashinath, B Sc BOotu 


jui.r, Ka\, Kedar Nath, B Sc, LLB 
2IMI7 Ka.\ , JKeshah Chandra, MA 
2IMis Ra\ . K bageiifira Nath, ba 
200!) Ita \ , Kunmd Bandbu, bso 
2070 Kay. Madan Mohan, BA 
2i)7l Kmv, Madliusudan, MA 
j|o7J Ka\. Alalati Bhusan, Mcom 
207!! Kay. Mihir Kunmr, BSC 
l!o7i Kay, Mrinal Kanti, BCOM 

t o7.7 Ray , Nalini Kanta, bhc 
<» 7(i Ray . Nalini Ran jail, BA 
!o 77 1U\ . Nalini Ranjan, BCom 

( liS Ha v, Narayan Chandra, bcoiii. . . 
>7!) Hay Menial Chandra (1 ), MA 
lNl Kav, Nirmal Chandra, ba 
* , s l Hay, Nripendra Mohan, ma 
f* 1 *- Hay, Nityaranjan, MA 
K’ Kax, Prabodh Ch. BA 
P N Kay, Prasanta Kumar, MA, BT 

r*" Hav , Prixulai, ba 
r 1 ' K;i\, fVonob Natli, ma 


Ha\, pi mash Ch. BA 
» Rabindranath, BA 
^ Kay, Uabindra Raj, BA 
m Hay, Ramaprosad, ba 

^ Ha\ , Uumcndra Nath, use 
1 Ranajit (II), BSC 

(Mr> |J a . v . Sailosh Kumar, ma 
)ifi !*•'■ ,Sa K^ndra Madhab. BSC 
" a, . N Sainarendra Narayan, MA 
!hk !: a > ’ San, ir Kumar (2), BA 
^•‘y.Sankar Prosad, BA 


W!l 

m 


^ a ,v, San tosh Kumar, B Sc 
R,l . v . Nash i Shekhar, BA 




l4& y. Saroj Oopal, Bsc 


h a - v ’ Natyabrattt, B8C 
p v ' ^“tyondra Ch, ba 
P; S«-bak Krishna, BA 
a y> Sisir Kumar, bsc 

Sourendra Nath, BCOM . . 

Sourondra Kumar, BCOM, 
i,ACA 


1%, fiubinoy, B Sc 

'I. Su dhir Kumar, ma ' 


Clerk, ( iradc 1 1 , Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, (Jr If, Reserve Bank of India 

V D (', State Trading Corpn of (I) Ltd 

Clerk, Gr. II, Reserve Bank of India 
Asstt, Lovelock & R*\vis 

V I) (\ l> A G, P T Office 

Asstt, West Bengal Provincial ( 'o-operative Bank 
Ltd 

V DC, DAO, P y T Ohio 
Auditor, A-< \V B 

Sr Asst t . K I Hx 
U J) Clerk, Tea Board 
Aeett , A.-C , VV B 

Estimator, Planning «V. I >o v I >opt , Corpn ot Calcutta 
Sr. Asstt-, Board of Secondary Education 

Clerk, tirade I I, Reserve Bunk oi India . . 

V DC, DAG, P * T Office 

Supdt, Design Drawing Office, Calcutta Improve- 
ment Trust 

Inspector, Collect ion Dept., Corpn. of Calcutta 
L. I). Asstt., Director of Veterinary Services, W. 
Bengal. 

V J) C, Office of I. T., VV. Bengal 
Auditor, A-G, \V B 

Supdt. Board of Secondary Education 
Clerk. Gra.de II, Reserve Bank oi India 


8, Council House Street 
S, Council House Street 

.‘12 Dalhousie Square 
Soul h 

8, (Council House Street 

4, Lyons Range 

7 Kailagliat Street 
1 1» Old ( !< Mirt f louso 
Si l eel 

7 Kailagliat Stinet- 
r IVeasiiry Buddings 
Eastern Railway House 
27 tV 2P, Brahoinnc Rd 
Treasury Bids. 

• > S N Banerjee Road 
77/2, Park St i cel 

5. Council House Street 
7 Kailagha.l Street 

10, Netaji Sllbhas Road 

o, S N Banerjee ltd. 

New Secretariat. 

Buddings 

P-7, ( Mu »w 1 1 liver Square 
Tie.isuix Blcfs 
77 /2 Park St rent 
S, Council Jfouse Street 


l J D C, DAHP&T Olfiee 


7 Kail. i, ghat. Street, 


Asstt, Teacher. Cl ient, a. I Smninarv 


220 Upper Chitpore Road 


17 T) C, Commerce A Iiuliist ries Department . . 

V I) <\ 1) A <d P & T Office 
r D (', O A G, P cV T Ofti<;e 

Stores and Purchg OflicMT, Geological Survey of India 
Auditor, A-G, VV B 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, George Reed & Co 
Auditor, A-G, \V B 
Clerk, Calcutta Improvement. Trust 
SupeiMRor, Williamson Magor & Co, Ltd 
C I) C, Jneome 'Pax Office . . 

0 J) Asstt, Office of the Labour Com mar 
Asstt Mast.ri. Hindu School 

Clerk, A, C E S C, Ltd 
Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

C l> <\ M’elegr.ipb (Mieek <)ffu*e 
V D Cleik, I) A t;, P & T Office 
1 7 I) C. Tideglaph (’heck Office 

Asstt, Annuity Department, Sun Lite In no Company 
of ( fan ad a 

Auditor, A-G V Office, West Bengal . . 

U D C, Telegraph Check Office 

Auditor, A-G, VV B 

U D Asstt, ( Jo-operation Department 

Budget Clerk, Commissioner of Excise Office 

Acctt , A-C, VV B 
Auditor, A-G, VV B 

Investigating Offteei , Agricultural Marketing, W est 
Bengal 

Auditor, A-G, W J i 


Writers' Buildings 
7 Kailagliat St reet 
7 Kadaghat Street 
27 , ( Hiownnghcc 
'fVeasurv Buildings 
8, ( ‘oiiiicil House Street 
Avimue House 
r rreasm\ Buildings 
10, Netaji Suhhas Road 
4, M’angoe ]*ane 
P-7 Chou rmghee Sijuare 
1, Hastings Street 
IB Bankim Chatterjei 
Street, 

Vhetoria House 
2.2, Dalhousie Sipiare 
Sold h. 

.2.2 I )alhousi<‘ Square 
7. Koilaghat Street 
.2.2 I ).[ lie Misie Square' 
2.2B, Netaji Sulilms 
Road 

'Pieasury ifu ildmgs 
.2.2 Dalhousie Square 
Treasmy Buildings 
Writ e? s 1 Budding-- 
W'ritei..' Building.' 
Tiviisiin Buddings 
Treajsiii \ Bu ildmgs 
Wi itei., Building'. 

r l’r< asiir \ Dm Id mgs 


S (» C, State 'Frading Corpn ol (I) Ltd . . 

Clerk, Telegraph Cheek Office 

U D C, D A G, P & T Office 
Su]Mit, Reserve- Bank cd India 
Jr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U D C, D A (jr„ P & T Office 
Asstt, Octavius Stool ct Co J^td 

Auditor, A-G, W B . 

AnHtW A.ff’u ffflfiAA. West BoukaI * v 


,22 Dalhousie Square 
South 

22, Dalhousie Square 
So utli . 

7 Kailagliat Street. 

8, Conned House Street 
77/2 Park Street 
Treasury BiulditifZ/* 

7 Ki lag hat Strwt 
14 Old (hurl. Hou**> 
Street 

Treasury liuildiity* 



84 


No. NftlDM. 


Style or calling. 


Reddenoe or plaoe of 
business. 


2110 

2111 

2112 

2113 

21 14 

2115 

211<i 
2117 
21 1 K 
2111 ) 
2120 
2121 
2122 


2123 


2124 

2125 

2120 

2127 

2128 

2121 ) 

2130 

2131 

2132 


2133 


2134 


2135 

2130 

2137 


2138 


2131) 

2140 

2141 

2142 

2143 

2144 

2145 
2140 


2147 

214S 


2141) 


2150 


2151 

2152 


2153 

2154 

2155 

2156 

2157 

2158 
2150 
2160 


Ray, Suhas Kumar, Boom 
Raj*, Sukhondu Bikash, BCom 
R.av, Sunil Kumar, BA 

Ray, Sunil Kumar (I), BSc, 

B (-Din. 

Ray, Sunil Kumar (2), BA 
Koy, Sunil Kumar, ha 


Clerk, Rallies (India), Lid 
Auditor, A-G, West Bengal 
C I) Assistant, Homo Department 
West Bengal 

Auditor, A-G, West Bengal. . 

Auditor, A-G, West. Bengal . 

Asstt-in -Charge, Iron A Steel Control . . 


. . 16, Hare Street 

. . Treasury Building* 

(G A), Writers’ Building* 

. . Treasury Buildings 
.. Treasury Building* 

. . 33, Netaji Nublm* Ro 


Ray, Stisanto Kumar, BOorn 
Ray, Susil Kr, BA(Hons) 

Ray, Sushil Kumar, BA 
Rav, Sushil Chandra, MA 
Rav, Tara pad a , iia . . 

Ray, Tarun Kumar, BA, LLB 
Ray Chaudhuri, Amarendra, bhc 
R ay Chaudhuri, Amiya Ran jail, 

BA 

Ray (Chaudhuri, Anil Kr, ba (H) . 
Rai Chaudhuri A run Kt. BSC 
Rav Chaudhuri, Bhupal, ba 
Rii' Chaudhuri, Bimaleudu, ma 
R ai Chaudhuri, Biman Kumar, BA 
Roy Chaudhuri, Gaganendra N., 

BS< ! 

Ray Chaudhuri, Canapati, BA 
Ray Chaudhuri, Gouri Sankar 
Rai Chaudhuri. Hitendra K inhere. 
RSC, BL 

Ray Chaudhuri, Kamal Kumar, 
BOOM 

Rai ('haudliuri. Manahondra LaL 
M( H)M 

Rai ( 'haiidiiuri. Manindra, MA 
Ray (’haudliuri, Nalmakshya, ma 
R ai (-haudliuri, Nihar Ranjan, BA 

Rai Chaudhuri. Naravan Chandra, 
BA 

Rai (-haudliuri, Nripeudra Kr, BA 
Ra\ Chaudhuri, Prafulla Kr, MA 
Rai Chaudhuri, Prosanta Kumar, 

Rai Chaudhuri, Pmsauta Kr, RSC 
Rai Chaudhuri, Bran Kumar, 
Ra\ Chaudhuri, Ra mesh Chandra 
Rai Chaudhuri, Schindra, BSC . . 
Ray (’haudliuri, Sahnsrangalm 
Kumar, BA. 

Ray Choudhury, S K, Bcom 
Rav (’haudliuri, Sailendra N., 

‘ BL. 

Ray Chaudhuri, Sailendra Nath, 

Boon i 

Rai (-haudliuri, Shvamal Kumar, 

MA 

Ray Choudhury, Siba Prosad, BA 
Rai Chaudhuri, Shiliaui, MA 

Rav (Chaudhuri, Suhodh Kumar, ba 
Rai Chaudhuri, Suhodh Ranjan, 


Clerk (bade* II. Reserve Rank of India 
Hd Asstt, I Jireetoral-e of Pauehayets 

Auditor, A (J, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G, West Bengal. . 

Clerk, Gr il, Reserve Bank of India 
Dist Organiser, Nat ional Savings Organisation, WB 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
S G Clerk, 1) A-G, P & T Office 

S G Clerk, 1) A-G, F & T Office 
Clerk. — K. Rly 

Auditor, A-G’h Office,, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G.’s Office, West Bengal 
IT 1) 0, I) A G, F A T Offier 
Ti C, Stationery Office 


H, Counej] House Sire 
Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings. 
Treasury Building, 

8, Council House Strepi 
TIindusthan HuiblingK 
Treasury Buildings 
7, Koilaghal Sticel 

7, Koilagliat- Stive* 
Eastern Rl v llousw 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Building* 

7 Kailaght Nt-ie<*t 
3, Cl lurch Lane 


IT 1) 0, I) A G, F A. T Office 
Clerk, I C i (India) Ltd 

Administrative Officer, Went Bengal Deep sea fishing 
Board 


7 Kaiiagha-t Stusi j 
34, Chowrmgker j 
33 Chit laranjan Av»<nuj 


V DC, DAG, P A T Office 
IT I) C, 1) A (J, F & T Office 


7 Kaila-gh.it Su eel 
7 Kailaghat SM<*et 


Jr Asst t, Board of Secondary Kducation 
V D Clerk, l> A-G, F A- T Office ... 

See Hd, Life Insurance Oorpn of India Oriental Govt 
Security Life Assurance Co 
IT DC, State Trading Corpu oi India, Ltd 

LJ 1) C, DAG, F A T Office 
Inspector, Income. Tax Office 
U D C, State Trading Corpu of India Ltd 

U DC, Telegraph Chock Office 

Asstt Kngr, 'Planning Dc\ Dept < lorpn of Calcutta 
Asstt, James Finlay A Co . . 

U DC, Te-legraph Check Office 
Sr Cl, Klection J)ept, Corpu of Calcutta 


77/2 Park Sturt 
7, KnilagliH Street 

2 (/live Row 

32 Dalhoii'-ie SijiiH 

South 

7 Kaila-gliat Stn*et 

4 Hasting" Street 

32 DalJioii'.ie S' j hi 
Soul'll 

3 Dalhousic Sijiiau* 

5 S N Banci jee I L mm! 
2, Netaji Suhlias Boa 

33 Dalliceic Stjuaiv 
5, S. N Bauer jee 


Cashier, Central Tea Bnar.t . . il & lSii. l.o'iriK' K 

liis|K-elor. Colleel.ioii Dept, ('i>i |iu of Caleiilta . . !i, K. N. I > ;,,,< ' ri " r 


Auditor, A-( i s Office, West Bengal 


Treasury Huibiimr> 


IT I) Asstt , Home (Passport.) Dept- 
IT I) Asstt., Kducation Dept, 

Asstt National Savings Officer, National Savings 
Organisation, W B 
Clerk, Calcutta Improvement Trust. 

U D C, Tolegrah Check Office 


11 A Fi«** S* In*" 1 s,re 

Writers' Building 
ILiii.liisll-'H' H"' 1 ' 1 

10, Netiiji 

33 |)alh..ii-"’S<"'" 


BCOM 

Rai Chaudhri, Triptimoy, BCOM 
Rodrigues, John, ba 
R oy Mitter, Tapon, ucom 
Rudra, Deb Kumar, BSC 
Rudra, Kala Chand, ba 
R udra, Nripeudra Ch, BA 


U D C, Telegraph Chock Office 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P A T Office 


Audit Clerk, Price Waterhouse Feat A- Co 
LJ D C, Telegraph Check Office 
Statistics Clerk, Standard Vacuum Of! Co 
Oevrsoap Correspondence Asstt, J E Thomson & Co 
Ltd 


33 DalhoiiM'* &i uftn 

7, Koilatrhat Street 


dcrB^ 

bat* 



Carried. 


Style or oalling. 


Residence or place 01 
business. 


S 

solatia, Jojit Singh, Boom 
iSn },n, Atnbiko Prosad, ba 
SaJliu, Atindra Nath, ba 
Sadha, Janendra Nath, Boom 
Sadlmkhan, Monmotha N, BSC . . 
Saha, A jit Kumar. bsc 
Salia A in a 1 Kumar, BCom 
Saha . Aniulya Ratan, BSC 
Saha, Anil Kumar, ba 
S;iha. Balaram , BA . . 

Saha. Banku Behari, BSC 
S ; i|i;i "Rareiidrn Nath. BA 

Salia, Uenoy Bhiisan, bsc 
Sahn Buvndra Chandra, BA 
s.ili.i Bishnupuda, BCom 
Hi ojo Bhusnn, BA 

Nilia. Brojogupal, ma, Boom 
h.i Gmranga Ch, BCOM 
< hmrpada, BA 
yilin (hunanga Kumar, BA 
Si ha. M L, BI'Olll 
Sail.*, 1 1 1 ratal, (1) Bi’om 
s.iiia, II ir.dal (2), BA 
Nili.i .lug.ipada, BA 
Saha Kali Prasanna, bsc 
^.ilu Kali PramiJina, ba 
K'- shah Gopak BA 

'"a 1 ,.) kii.slmn Chandra, BA 
s ..lia M.idliusuda n, BA 
\ilia Ma nada Churan, BA 

\i!u \ikliik*ndu K i\ BSC 
s 'ha, X.mndra. Nath, ba 

^ iii.. \ i.tikIi a Nal li. MA 
Stli.i, Nitvananda, ba 

An \ .inaiida. BSC, BT 
.Wt.u Chaml, BCom 
S| ha 1 ‘,m ijiia ha lian, BS( 1 

• S; ‘lia, 1‘anrlm ( {opal, MA 
" l ha. 1‘iatap Chandra, BNe 
I'uma Chandra, ba 

SllIUl > hajendra Lai, ma 

Sal,(l - Uamlal, BCom 
^ a ha. K ({, ha, ncom 
Kjitchidananda, ba 
,Salu, ‘ S| *'tM-ndra Nath. MA, BT . . 

* s ' ls,r Ranjan, MA 
■^‘•'.SnhhaK Ch, ba 

Nubhomaya, ba 

' a ^h Kukhoridra, BSc 
^ a J U ’ ^- u «har Kanti, Bcom 
IV**’ ^ f ‘ r<i ar Prabir Kr, BA 
. u . A jit Kumar, bsc 
^unadhar, BSc 
P kil bigannath, BA 

d nanendra Nath, BA 
^Jdar, Amalendu, BSC 
^jdar, Profulla Kumar, MA, 


Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India 
Auditor, A-G's Office, West Bengal 
Aoctg Section, St andard Vacuum Oil Co 
Clerk, Or IL, Reserve Bank of India 
IT I) C, L) A G, P & T Office 
Pav-Roll Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
UPC, CT, WB s Office 
Inspector, Income Tax Office 
Sr Asstt. Secondary Board of Education 
Hd Asstt, Geological Survey of India 
U D C, DA O, V & T Office 
C I) (\ I T Office 

Acett., D A-< {, P & T Office 

Hd Assti. Geological Survey of India . . 

Divisional Acett, A-G, West. Bengal 
l T DC. D A G. P & T Office 
Auditor, A-( { \s Office, West Bengal 
Asstt. Land Rev Br Land and Land Revenue Dept 
IT D C. 1) A G, P & T Office 
Hd Assti. Geological Survey of India . . 

Audit Clerk, Price Waterhouse Peat Ar Co 


H, Council House Street 
Treasury Buildings 

6 Church Lane 

8, Gamed House Street 

7 Kailagliat. St reet 
0, Church Lane 

3 Govt, Place West 
3 Govt Place West 
77/2, Park Street 
27 Chowringhee 
7 Kailagliat. St reet 
Income Tax Office Pi 
\ A 

7, Koilaghat. Street 
27 Chowringhee 
Treasury Buildings 
7 Kailagliat Street 

Treasury Buildings 
Writers' Buildings 
7 Kailagliat St reel 
27 ( Miov\ ringhee 
B4, Gillender House 


Auditor, A-G’s Office, West. Bengal . . 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
UP Assistant, Commerce and Industries Dept. 

U D Asstt, Education Directorate 

L D Asstt. Land Rev Br. Land and Land Revenue 
1 )cpf 

I T DC. I) A G. P til T Office 
Clelk. E Rlv 
r D <\ i r r office 

U DC, I T office 

Assistant, Education Directorate, DP I, West 
Bengal 

I (is p<*r| oi I T Office . . * 

Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
Tcachei, Hindu Academy 


Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
W riters ’ Buildings 
Writers' Buildings 
W riters Buildings 

7 Kailagliat Street 
Eastern Rlv House 
Income Tax Office, Dt 

VA 

I* 7 ( Miowi mglico Squire 
Wnt cih' Buildings 

l*-8 Bi .1 bom lie Road 
77 /2 Park Si leet 
."♦O A ill heist Street 


Jr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
Asst t Local «X Sell Govt tV Panchayats Dept 
Clerk, Grade* I. Reserve Bank of India 
V Dt’, (! T I, West Bengal's Office. 

S G Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 

U D (Jerk, Telegraph Check Office 

Auditor, A G, West Bengal 


77/2 Park Street 
Writers' Buildings 
S, Council House Street 
P 7 Chnwi higher Square 
33, Dalhousie Square, 
South 

33, Dalhousie Square 
South 

Trasary Buildings 


Prob Asstt, Reserve Bank of India 


8, Council i louse Street 


Section Tncharge Diicctorate of Registration 
Asstt Teacher, Oriental Seminary 


Writers' Buildings 
330 Up|H*i ('hit poie 
Road 


Asstt, Land Reforms Branch, Land & Land Rev 
Dept. 

Asstt Sales clerk, Stewarts & Lloyds of India Private 
Ltd 

Sr Asstt, Board of Secondary Education 
Auditor, A-G, West Bengal 


Writers' Buildings. 

41, Chowringher Road 

77/2, Park Street. 
Treasti ry Bu i Id ings. 


Asstt, Land Acquisition Branch 
D I) C, C I T, Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil Co 
U D C, In-come Tax Office, West Bengal 
F Ins Gr J1I, State Trading Corpn of (1) Ltd 

U D C, D A G, P & T Office 
L D Asstt, Home (Poll C R) Dept 
Asstt Master, Hindu School 


Writers’ Buildings 
3, Govt Place West, 
fi, Church Lane 
. . 3, Go vt PIace West 

32 Dnihoiisii* Square 
m St>uth 

. . 7 Kai/aghat Street 

Writ ers ’ Bu tiding* 

IB Bankim ^ 



86 


No. Names. 

2218 Namajdar, Ramani Kanta, BA 

2219 Samantha, Amalesh Kr., BCom 
^2^0 Sana, Monoranjaii, BA 

^221 Santhana. K V, Boom 

Sany al , Amalendu Mohan, BA 

2223 Sanyal, Biswanath, Boom 

2224 Sanyal. Phiremlra Lai, Use 

2225 Sanyal, Tlimangsliu Kr, Rcom 

2226 Sanyal, Kalvan Kumar, BA 

2227 Sanyal, Monoj, Bsc 

2228 Nan\ a I , Mukt ipadu BA 

2229 Sanyal, Nirmal Kr, ba 

2250 Sanyal, Prafulla Kumar, bsc 

2251 Sanval. Radha Gobindn. BA 

2252 Sanyal, Sacliiudra Karan, use 

2255 Sanyal, Saroj, BCom 

2254 Sar, Rabin. Ira Nath. BS( ’ 

2255 Kardar. Prafulla. Kr. MA 

2250 Sarkai. Amal Krishna. MA 

2257 Sarkar, Ajit Kumar, ba 

2258 Sarkar, Ajit Kumar. BCOM 

2259 Sarkar, A joy, ba 

2240 Sarkar, Amui Krishna. BSC 

2241 Sarkar, Amal Kumar. f BCOM 

2242 Sarkai, Anil Kumar. BSC 
2245 Sarkar, Aruti Kanti, BCOM 

2244 Sarkar, Anmlya Rat an, BCom 

2245 Sarkai, Ai tin Kumar. BA 
2240 Sarkar, Ash it Kumar, ba 

2247 S.u kur, Bejav Krishna. BA 

2248 Sarkar, Buna I Ch, mom 

2249 Sarkar, Bimalendu, Room 

2250 Sarkar, Bankiin Chandra, ba 

2251 Sarkar, Birendra Kumar, ma 

2252 Sarkar. Bvomkesh, BA. BT 
2255 Sarkar, Debidas, BKe 

2254 Sarkar, Dob Dutta, ba 

2255 Sarkar, Devabrata, BCom 
2250 Sarkar, Dilip Kumar, BSc 

2257 Sarkai, Go pa I Chandra, BA 

2258 Sarkar, Hrishikesh, ba 

2259 Sarkar, Islam Ali, BA 

2200 Sarkar, Jayanta Kumar, MA 

2201 Sarkar, Jnan Mohan, BA 

2202 Sarkar, Jyoti Bikaslt, BSC 
2205 Sarkar, .polish (■handra, BA 

2204 Sarkar. Jyotisli Chandra. BA 

2205 Sarkar, Jyotisli Chamlra, MA 
2200 Sarkar, Kalipada, BCOM 
2267 Sarkar, Ivarnal Krishna, BA 
2208 - Sarkar, Kesliab Chandra, Boom 

2269 Sarkar, Krishna Behan, BA 

2270 Sarkar, Manindra Nath, Mac 

2271 Sarkar, Manindra Nath, BA 

2272 Sarkar, Nagendra Nath, ba, bl 

2273 Sarkar, Nanda Lai, ba 

2274 Sarkar, Nirmal Kumar/BSC 

2275 -Sarkar, Nirmal Kumar, ma (Boom) 


Style or calling. 


Residence or p 
business 


Ledger (5, Centra) Bank of India Ltd (New Market 10 Limlsav sir. ♦ 
Branch) ’ ' ^ 

U D Asstt., Education Dept . . . . Writers’ Building 

V I ) (\ D A G P & T Office . . . . 7 Kailaghat y thv! 

Typist , Tata Iron A Steel Co Ltd .. .. 25B, Net m v 

Road " U 

Treasury Buildup 
10, St rand lb W i 


, Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 

Cler k, British India Steam Navigation Co 
Ltd. 

Statistical Asstt, Office of the Labour Oommr 
. dr Technical Asstt, Office of the Registrar of Com- 
panies 

Sales Asstt, Stewarts and Lloyds of India Private 
Ltd 

Demonstrator. Surendra Nath College 
UPC |)AC I* A T Office 
II 1> 0, Stationery Office 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Dist Oiganisir National Savings Oignnisalion. . 
Benga i 

Sii] m I t., Reserve Bank of India 

UP Clerk, (Controller of Coal Accounts 
Asstt. Income 'fax Office 
C D (\ 'Telegraph Cheek Office 

r p c. o A c p a t oibn- 

Auditor, A O’s Office, West Bengal 
C P C. D A G, P A T Ollier 
Clerk (Jr), C E S C, Ltd 
U PC. Ineolin Tax Office . . 

C DC, PA G, P A T Office 

U I > Asstt. 1 )( pt <d Agiieuliure A Pood Production 

Asstt, V\ est Bengal Provincial Oo-operat ive Bunk 
Ltd 

Clerk (Jr 1, Ri serve Bank ol India 
C DC, Telegraph ( 'hri k ( )ffiee 
Auditor, A-G \s Olliee, West Bengal 

U J) c, PAG P A T Office 

( -lei k, .1 r, ( K N C f Ltd 

Clerk, Gr II. Reserve Bank ol India 

Hd Asstt, Geological Survey of India . . 

Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India . . 

Otlg lid Mast< i Cit v Collegiate School . . 

Auditor, AG, West Bengal 

U P (J, Stationery Office 

Clerk, Gr 11, Reserve Bank of India 

Auditor. A (5, West Bengal 

V PC. Income Tax Office 
Asstt, Education Directorate 
Ins, Income 'Tax Office 

U I) Asstt, Fisheries Department 
Auditor, A G, West Bengal 

Asstt. Loral A Seif-Govt A, PanehayatH 
U DC, DAG. PA TOffice .. 

Hd Asstt, Geological Survey of India . . 

Stnres Assistant, Geological Survey ot India 

V P <\ Telegraph Cheek Office 
Auditor, A G. West Bengal 
Clerk (Jr), C E S 0, Ltd 

Ins, Income Tax Office 

Examiner, Government of hiclia Stationery Office 
Auditor, A G, West Bengal 
Jr Clerk, C K S C, Ltd 

IJ P Asstt, Home Dept (Transport), West Bengal 
Hd Asst t, Geological Survey of India . . 

Jr Technical Asstt, Office of the Registrar of Com- 
panies 


1 , Hast mgs Kiivri 
- i Mission K 0 u f; 

41, ( 'howringW g )ia 

24, Mahatimi ( 

7 Kuilaghai Mnvt 
5 Church Lana 
. Treasury Budding 
Hindus! Lot T,iii|,| ) | I 

8, Council Hoirir Sin 
L Council I foiiHe M] ‘ 
. P-7 Chow i n Iio N| 

55 1 )alllOMMe SijU.t;,. 

7 Kailaghat St m i 
"Treasury Buildini: 

7 Kailagli.il 'Mml 

Victoria House 
P-7 ( 'how i j i ig In i xji 
7 Kailaghat Mi i < ‘t ( 
Wi it ei s BiiiIiImilk 1 
I 6 ( Hd ( oia i ilj 

Street I 

8, Council Mouse Si it 
55 PaihoiiM! St , ijaie 
Treasurv Building 
7 Kailaghat Ni< < ’ 
Victoria lions. 

K, 1 \ mneil I hnis. St! 
27, Chow nrieliir 
S ( 'on lie i J I loic 
1 5 Surv a Sea Start 
Treasurv buildup 
5, Church Lane 
S, Council House S 
Treasury buildup 
P-7 Chow . mghee K 
Writers' building 
P-7 Chow r j Malice S 
Writers’ build.nss 
Treasurv Huikimt. N 
Writers’ building 
7 Kailaohat Stn^ 

1>7 Chow ritu-diec 
27, Chownnithec 

55 Pnlhoic io S<i» 
Treasury 
Victoria House 
X*-7 < liowi 
:{ Chun k L auP ! 

Treasury buildup 
Victoria H«u^ 
Wnt.-rs' 

27 t *ln»vk i 
Pj 5!I, >ri.wi" n ^ 

7 Stl ^ 



Name. 


si 

•Style or calling. 




Residence or place oi 
business. 


9277 Sarkar, Nishit Ranjan, bsc 

9278 Sarkar, Pabit.ra Kumar BA 
2 >71) Sarkar, Paramananda, ba 
•> 980 Sarkar, Prabhat Kumar, BA 

2281 Sarkar, Pradcep Kr, MA 
9>82 Sarkar, Prankrishna, ba 
*>28*1 Sarkar, Prantosh, ba 
•>284 Sarkar, Punya Praia. BSC 
9*>8r) Sarkar, Rebat i Kumar. BA 
‘>*>88 Sarkar, Sailendra Mohan, bso 

2287 Sarkar, Saktibrata, Mcom 

2288 Sarkar, Samarendra Nath, ba 
•»28D Sarkar, Santosli Kumar, B('om . 
221)0 Sarkar, Saroj Kumar, Mcom 
2291 Sarkar, Saraj Nath, ba 

229- Sarkar, Saurendra N, us© 

221)!? Sarkar, Subodli 

2294 Sarkar. Suhodh Chandra, BA, BI 

2295 Sarkar, Susil Kumar, BA 
2298 Sarkar, Cdnv Kumar, BA 

2297 Sarkar, V S, ba. Boom, aoa 

2298 Sarkar. l T t palcndu, MA 

2299 Sam] i, Sarhehidanandn, BA 
2500 Seal, Adhir (Chandra 


21101 Seal, (Jour Lai, iiciom 
2!102 Seal, Nirmal Kumar, ba 
2!10,‘{ Seal, Ramesh Ch., Boom 

2504 Sen, Abani Mohan, BA 

2505 Sen, A jit Kumar, M a 

2508 Sen, Ajoy Kama!, use (Distil) 

2507 Sen, Anil. MA 

2508 .son, Anil Kumar, ma 

2509 Sen Amipam, ma 

2510 Sen, Arindam, 11 a 

2511 Sen, Am 11 Kumar, ma 

2512 Sen, A run Kumar, MCoin 
2515 Sen, Anil Ranjan. BSO 
2514 Sen, Ash is Kuhuju, BCora 

2315 Son, Ashoko Kr, BA 

2316 Sen, Birendra K, ba 

2317 Sen, Brojendra Kumar. BA 

2318 Sen, Chandi Ras, Boom 

2319 Sen, Churn Chandra. BA 


^20 Sen, Chitta Prasanna, BA 
-321 Sen. Dandluidas. MA 



Sen, Rebashis, BSC(Hons) 

Sen, Ripak Molmn, MA 
Sen, Dwariknaih, scorn 
Sen, Ganesh Chandra, bso 
Sen, Copal Krishna, bsc 
Sen, Hem Gopa.1, ba 
Sen, Hrishikcsh, BSC 
Sen, Jyotirmoy, BA . . 

Son, Kalyan Kumar, BSC 
Sen, Kam^l Kanti, BSC 
Son, Madhu sudan, bsc 

Maaa bendra Nath MA, BSo 


Jr Technical Asstt, Office of the Registrar of Com- 
pancies 

Auditor, A (J, West Bengal 

Clerk, (Jr I, Reserve Bank of India 

1' D C, Slate Trading Corpn ol (I) Ltd 

Auditor, A-G\s Ofliee, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-( J\s Office, West Bengal 
Clerk, Improvement Trust 

Chemist. West Bengal Public Health Leb\ . . 

Auditor. A G. Bengal 

L D Clerk, Commerce & Industries Deptt 
Auditor, A-G\s Office, West Bengal 
Asstt. Education Directorate 
Audit, or, A <J, West Bengal 
Clerk, (ir 11, Reserve Bank of India 
Chirk, ( Jr IT, Reserve Bank of India 
T A R, Standard V iicuiun Oil Co, Ltd 
Asstt, Shaw Wallace and (Jo. Ltd 
S (It. Telegraph Click Office 
V 1) Asstt, Purest J)ept 
Auditor. AG, West Bengal 
Sr Acctt, Tea Board 

Asstt. \\ T esl Bengal Prn\incial Co-operative Bank 
Ltd 

Jr P ()ffie< r. State Tin ding Corpn of (J) Ltd 

Junior Head Asstt,, Animal Husbandry A Veterinary 
Services. 

Asstt, Bank of China 

Stall’ Asstt, Chartered Bank 

Clerk, Lyods Bank, Ltd 

Ins Income Tax Office 

Asstt Teacher, Metropolitan Institution 

U T) Clerk, 1) A-G P cV T Office 

IT 7> Clerk, Tea Board 

Auditor, A-G’h Office, West Bengal 

IT I) Clerk, 1) A-(J, P A T Office 

Auditor, A-G’h Office, West Bengal 


1*29 Mission Row Extn 

Treasury Buildings 
S, Council House Street 

52 Ralhousie Scjimre 
Soul h 

Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
JO, Netaji Subhas Road 
( Jdttnrnn jan Avenue 
Trcasuix Buildings 
Writers' Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
8, Council House Street 
S, Council House. Street 
)>, Church Lane 
I Bankshall Strict, 

55 Ralhousie Square 
Writers’ Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 
27 29, Brabourne Road 

lb Old Court House 
St reel 

52 Rulhousie Square 
Soul h 

Writers* Buildings. 

lf>, Brabourne Road 
4, Netaji Subhas Road 
29, Netaji Subhas Road 
5 Govl Place West 
59, Sankar Ghose Lane 
7, Koilaghat Street 
27 A 29, Bn thou rile Rd 
Treasury Buildings 
7, Koilaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 


Auditor, A-( J’s Office, West Bengal 
C l> C, I T Office. West Bengal 
Chemist W« st Bengal Public Healt li Laby 
Clerk, (hade J, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Grade II, Reserve Bank of India . . 

Clerk, (Jr 11, Reserve Bank of India 
Aeett. State Trading Corpn of India Ltd . . 

Audit Clerk, Price Waterhouse Peat & Co 

Asstt. Life Insurance Corpn ol Judin Oriental Govt 
Security Life Assurance Co 
U 1) (Turk, Iron & Steel Control 

Markel Research Officer. Agricultural Marketing 
West Bengal 

C DC, I) A C, P A T Office* 

V DC, l> A G. P A T Office 

Asstt, Cledonian Insurance Company . . 

Clerk, Williamson Magor & Co 

U R ( Jerk, R A-(J, P <V T Office 

Clerk, Gr II, Reserve Bank of India 

Asstt, Rccpir Br, Land & Land Revenue Uepi 

IT R C, 1 1 1 come Tax Office 

Chemist, West Bengal Public Health Laby 

U R C, R A G, 1* A T Office 

L 1) O. Income Tax Office . . 

Sales Cl, Indian Cable Co# Ltd 


Treasury Buildings 
5, Govt Plat o (West) 

( Jnl taian jan Avenue 
8, Conned House Street 
8, Council House Street 
8, Council House Street 

52 Ralhousie Square 
Soul 1 1 

B4, ( Jive Buildings 
2 ( J i v< Row 

55, Netaji Subhas Road 
Wi iler h Building's 

7 Kailaghaf Street 
7 Kailaghat Si reel 
B5 (b’llander House 
4, Mangoe Lane 

7. Koilairhat Street 

8, Conned House Street 
WriU i*' Buildings 

5 Govt Place West 
Chit fa ranjan Avenue 
7 Kailnghal Strict 
3 f Government * 



frames. 


Style or calling. 


fro. 


ftarfdenoe Of place of 
business. 


2334 Sen, Manindra N, ba ‘ • 

2335 Sen, Manindra Nath. BA 

2336 Sen, Milonmoy, MA 

2337 Sen, Mohon Lai, ma 

2338 Sen, Naresh Chandra, ba 

2339 Sen, Naresh Chandra, BA 

2340 Sen, Nepal Chandra 

2341 Sen. Minna! Kumar. BSC 

2342 Sen. IVanah Kr. BA 

2343 Sen, I* K, MA 

2344 Sen, Rabindra Nath, ba 

2345 Sen, Rabindra Nath, MA 

2346 Sen, Sadhu Ch, ba 

2347 Sen. Snmarendra Mohan, BOOM 

2348 Sen. San|ii Kumar. BSC 

2349 Sen, Sankar Prasad, Boom 

2350 Sen, Sankar (copal. BA 

2351 Sen, Santimoy, ba 

2352 Sen, Saral Kumar, ma 

2353 Sen, Kibes war, BSe 

2354 Sen, Samendra Noth, BCOM 

2355 Sen, Smriti Kumar, bsc 

2356 Sen, Sublias Ch, Boom 

2357 Sen. Subodh Kumar, BA 

2358 Sen, Sudhir Kr, ba 

2359 Sen, Sudhirendra Nath, BA 

2360 Sen, Sukiimar, ba 

2361 Sen, Sunil Chandra, B Com I>ip 

Lib (Cal) 

2362 Sen, Sures Vrosamm esc 

2363 Sen, Sutendra J^Iath, bsc 

2364 Sen, Tarak Das 

2365 Sen, 'LVjomoy. BA 

2366 Sen, Tridiv Kumar. BA 

2367 Sen Gupta, Ajit M, bsc 

2368 Sen Gupta, Ajit Kumar, BSC- 

2369 Sen ( dipt a., Ajit Kumar, boom . . 

2370 Sen Cnpt a. Ajit Kumar. BA 


U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
U D C, 1) A G. P & T Office 
Jr Asstt. Board of Secondary Education 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 

Clerk, Acta Dept., Mackinnon Mackenzee A Co 
P rivate Ltd. 

Auditor, AO, West Bengal 
Asatt, James Finlay & Co . . 

IT J) C, D A G, P & T Office 
U DC. D A O. P * T Office 
Sub Head, E Rly 

Clerk, Calcutta Iinprovenient Trust 
Asstt Master, Scottish Church School 
U D Clerk, D A-G, P & T Office 
IT I) C. D A G. 1* * T Office 
I T I) C, State Trading Corpu of India Ltd 

Clerk, Or II, Reserve Bank ot India 
IT J) O, I) A O, P & T ( )llice 
Clerk, State Bank of India 
Asstt, Lovelock & Ixvwes 

Inspector, Election Dept, Corpn of (Calcutta 
Aeett. D A O, V & T Ollier 
Auditor, A G’s Office 
Supdt, Reserve Bank of Tmiia 
Auditor, A-G, Bengal 
Clerk, I C I, Ltd 
Auditor, A 0, West Bengal 
Dealing Asstt, Controller of Import & Export 
Junior Technical Assistant, Secretariat Library 
Branch, W B (Home) Dept, 

Clerk, State Bank of India 

Asstt, Iron & Steel Control 

Clerk, Turner Morrison cV Co Private Ltd 

Auditor, A 0 West Bengal 

U 1) C, I) A-G, P & T Office 

17 I) Clerk, 1> A-G, P & T Office 

U T> C, I> A-G, V & T Office 

(71erk, (Oracle II. Reserve Bank of India 

V I) C. Income Ta.\ Office .. 


7, Koilaghat Stroet 
7 Kailagbat Street 
77-2 Park Street 
7, Koilaghat Street 
16, Strand Road 

Treasury Buildings 
2, Netaji Sublias Rna<| 

7 Kailagbat Street 
7 Kailaghat Street 
Eastern Railway IIouhc 
10, Netaji Subhas Uou<l 
73, Cornwallis Street 

7, Koilaghat Strict 
7 Kailagbat Street 

32 Dallmnsic Stjuaiv 
South 

8, Council House, Street 
7 Kailaghat Street 
Queens Mansions 

4, Lyons Range 
5 S. N. Banerjee Ihud. 

7 Kailaghat Street 
Treasury Buildings 
8, Council House Street 
Treasury Buildings 
34, Chowringhee 
Tn »asurv J holdings 

4, Esplanade East 
Writers' Building 

Queens Mansions 
33, Netaji Sub has Komi 

6, Lyons Range 
Treasury Buildings 
7 Kailaghat St • « < t 

7, Koilaghat Street. 

7 Kailaghat Si reel 

5, Council House Street 
Income Ta\ Ofln-e. 

V A 


2371 Sen Gupta, Arun Kumar (2), BOom 

2372 Sen Gupta, Arun Kr, BSc 

2373 Sen Gupta, Vsit Ranjan, Boom . . 

2374 Sen Gupta. Balaram. BA 

2375 Sen Gupta, Bejon Kumar, 

ma (Gom), ulb 

2376 Sen Gupta, Bhabani, Boom 

2377 Sen Gupta. Blmpeiidra Nath, BSC 

2378 Sen Gupta. Bimanendru N, BA . . 

2379 Sen Gupta, Binode Ranjan, 

Bcom 

2380 Sen Gupta. Bisuajit Kumar. BA 


Sen ( 5upt.a, 
Sen Gupta. 
Sen Gupta, 
Sen Gupta, 
Sen Gupta, 
Sen Gupta, 
Sen Gupta, 


Biswanath, ba 
O lmndi Das. BSC 
Dilipendu 

Dilip Kumar, BCom 
Gopika Raman, BA . 
Jitendra Nath, MA . 
Jyotiranjan, MA 


Dealing Clerk, Joint Chic! Controller of Import &. 
Export 

U D Asstt Agriculture <$: Food Production Dept, W 
Bengal. 

Sales Asstt, Stewarts & Lloyds of India, Private Ltd 
Asstt. Agricultural Marketing. West Bengal 
Asstt, Share Dept, Martin Burn Ltd 

Clerk, Telegraph Check Office 
Chemist, West Bengal Public Health Laby 
D A Marketing Officer, Agricultural Marketing, West 
Bengu I 

Fire Dept, Scottish Union National Inec Co 

Dist Organiser. National Savings Organisation. West 
Bengal 

Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
U D C, D A-G, V & T Office 

Asstt, Directorate of Agriculture 

Acctt, A G ,West Bengal 
U D Asstt* Cal collect mute 
Auditor. A-G, Bengal . . 

Auditor, A G, West Bengal 
l Check 


4, Esplanade East 

Writers’ Buildings 

41, Chowringhee RojmI 
Writers' buildings 
12, Mission Row 

33, Dalhousie Sqr South 
Chittaranjan Avenue 
Writers' buildings 

6, Lyons Range 

Treasury Build" 1 )-''' 

7 Kailaik'lial ,vrl 
Writers' Buili.i'>- i ' 
Treasury Buildup 
11 Netaji Sidd>»* B‘ ,g 
Treasury Building 
Treasury Buildup 8 ^ 
33 , Dalhousie ^ ‘ 



Na oies* 


80 

Style or cal line. 


K< widen c«- or place of 
bllsillOKH. 


Sou Oupta, Monish (Chandra, BSc- Acett, A O ,Wt‘st Bengal • • 

i 1 SentffipDi, Monoranjan, m a Asstt , Board ol SeeondarN Education 

sen Oupta, N. 11 . . . •• Asstl Engr Drainage, ( Wpn of Calcutta 

l.)** Sen Oupta, Nirmal. BSC . . C I) C. D A O, P cV T <>tffi ‘ 

1 ‘U Sen (iupta, Nripendni Kumar, ma Auditor, A-O '« Office, W rsl Bengal 
' j- en (jjuj»ta, Paresh Ranjan, Boom Clerk, Allahabad Bank, Ltd 

Mi Sen Oupta, Barlbaranian. BA .. V DC, DA(!, V& TOffm 

'^♦7 Sen Oupta, Biabir Ki, BSP, LLB Assit . ( >f!iec of I T ( >. S l B 

o,)s Sen (iupta, Brobodh Ranjan, ba Clerk, Standard Vacuum Oil < -«» 

Sen (Jupta. Sailen. use . . Asstt, Finance Deptt. 

Sen (iupta, SukHnmy, IK’OM . . West Bengal Co-opei at ivc Bi ovineial Bank Ltd 

>401 Sen Oupta, Salil Kumar, BA . . CD (\ Income Tux Othn* . . 

»4, r » s< n ( iupta , Saroj K, Hcom . . Clerk. < ir II, Reserve Bank of India 

•40:i S<’I1 Oupta. Sn1\a Banjan BSC .. Asstl, Law (Judicial; Dept .. 

• jot Sen ( bi | >t a, Sisu Kumar, BA . . I 7 l> <\ State Trading Porpn oi (I) Ltd 

>4P.“, Sen (input, Subir Kuinar, 1 »A -- t T I)( 1 , D A-U. P & T Office 

doti Sen wupta, Sndhir Ranjan. BSC Sr lid Asstt, Home (Bassport) Dept . . 

>407 Sen (iupta., Suknti Ranjan, BA . . Asstt, Finance Deptt 

HUS Sen ( iupta, Sunil Chandra, BA . . Auditor, A- (Vs Office, West Bengal 

>4 Oil Sen (iupta, Sunil K r, BSC Clerk, E IMy 

>410 Sen < iupta , Sund Madhab. BA. BL Dist Organism, National Sa\ ings Organisat ion, 

Bengal 

, 41 j SimOu]>la, Sushi! Oh., ha Jr Technical Asstt, Office of tho Registrar 

" tA ‘ Companies 

Susliil Kumar. BSC, Asstt Master, Hindu School 

Swat a Ketu. bcoiu .. Asstt, Loveloc k & Lewes .. .. 

Amulva (IojkiI, BA .. Leeturor, Onvt College of Art & (-rails 
Jngadish Chandra, ba Auditor, A-d’s Office, T 10 1 , West Bengal 
Brodosh Kumar, bcoiu Br Clerk, Commissioner of Excise Office 


» 4 p> Sen (iupta, Sushi! Kumar. BSC, 
BT 

j 1 1 H S<'ii (Iupta, Swata Ketu. flcioin . . 
■Jilt Sen Siimri. A-u’ilya Oopul, BA .. 
j 1 1 Sin Sarnia, Jngadish Chandra, ba 
J ilt) Sen Sarma, Brodosh Kumar. Boom 
J4I7 Seth, Sun tb Kumar, MA, LLB . . 
J.J 1 s Shall. Sukblal Sbivraj 
Jill) Sliarina. Balw ant-ara j, MA 
J1JU Sharma, Mamndra- Lai, ba 
J1JI Sii n ma Oliaudliuri, Copal 
Chandra. BSc 

J1JJ Sh« * t,y, K Rainananda, Bcom 
Jlj;; Sliomc, A sit Kumar, Bcom 
-LI SI mi in*., Nislii Ka.nl o, BSC 

-4-*> Sin me, Blmnindra Sekbar, MCOM 
-4-‘> Siiome, Satyadas. ba 
-4J7 Slmme, Soun ndra Nath, MCOM 
-4Js Sikdar, Kliagendra N, BSc 
(Hons) 

~L!l Sikdar, N K, BSC ' .. 

- 4: » (l Sii, Bamandas. BA . . 

-Ml Sii Bubal Chandra, BA 
-!•!- Simlai, Sisir Kutnar, ba 

Si-.Im,. R miosh Chandra, MA 
-h’d Sinha, Adbir Krishna, ba 
-‘■ kL Sinlia. Anil Baran. BA 

Sinlia,. Badri Nany an, BA 
~k>/ Sinha. Bidhubhusan, BA 
-Ls Sin] KU Bijou Kumar, BA 

Sinha, Biplab Kumar, Boom 
: 24 ° Siuba, Byomkesb. BSc 
r 1 1 Sinha, Chandidas, ba 
T 2 Sinha > Burga Dutt. JifcCOM * . 
r* Sinha, DWljencLra Nath, ba, bl 
S inha, Hurakinkar, MA 
Sinha, BH&hikaahf Ba 


ltd Clerk, Ofliee of 1 T Office, West Bengal 
Assistant, Jeowanlal (1929), Ltd 
Acett, A (i, West Bengal 
Auditor, A-CCs Office, West Bengal 
Auditor, A O, West Bengal 

Clerk. Or 11, Reserve Bank of India 
Clerk, Martin Burn & Co, Ltd 
Demo nos. Surendra Natli College 

CD (\ J) A-O, V & ^Office 
IT D Clerk. D A-O, P & T Office 

V D 0, D A-O, P & T ( Mice 

U 1) C, 1 T Office, West Bengal 

U J) C, 1) A-O, I* & T Ofliee 
Clerk. K Rly C V O s Office 
U T> <\ J> A-O, P & T Office 
C? irk, Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd 

Asstt Teacher, St Xavier’s Collegiate School 
U ]) C, Stationery Office 
U 1> <\ Home (Transport) Dept 

V 1) (k D A-O, P & T Office 

Insjiector, (Tollection Dept, Corpor of Calcutta 
Asstt Rerpir Br, Land ^ Land Revenue Dept 
Asstt, l^oveloc^k & Lewes 
U D Asstt, Education Department 
Clerk, Or T, Reserve Bank of India 
Inspector, Income Tax Office 
Auditor, A-G’s Office, West Bengal 
Asett, Board of Secondary Education , 

. Clerk. Tlaittk Iron & Steel Co. Ltd ■ ' % 


Th'.i^un I’uildiusjs 
ii J , Rli k >*>1 

;')iS N Kau* i |rc Road 
7 Kail. mh.. i Si n»i 
Tiva^un Buildings 

Allahabad Bank Build- 

in t»S 

7 Ivail.ediai Si i«*rl 
1* T ( 'iiuw i nmhrr S» jtiarc 
(>, ( M mivb Lane 
. . Writ et s' Bmldiiu/s 

. . Mi Old ( \>m 1 House 
St n et 

. . I neojih ' "a \ ( Mlire I ) 

\ fv 

S, Council House Street 
Writei s' LuikliiijLfs 

I >a I In a. sic S« jr S< »n t h 
7 Kmlagli.’.l St reel 
I I A luv< School St i eel 
W'rif.ers’ Buildu;..*s 
Tnusiny Bmldunrs 
Kasicm !?,nlwa\ Li.uisc 
West llnuliisi] . ii Biuldiiigh 

of P29, Mission Row Extn 

.. IB Bankun (Muitferjee 
St i eel 

I, Lyons Range 

2<S Chow nngliec Road 
Treasury Buildings 
Writers’ Buildings 
J Oovl Place (West) 

.. .‘11, Nctaji SubliaH Road 

. . Treasury Buildings 
. . Treasury Buildings 
Treasury Buildings 

.. S, Council House Street 
12, Mission Rov 
2-4-2 Mahatma Oandlii 
Road 

7 Ka ihighat St reel 
. . 7, Koilaghat Street 

7 Ka i Jagh » I St re- 4, 

J Oo\ t Place (West) 

7 Ka i la, ghat St i eet 
.. 17 Nctaji Suhlia.^ Bead 

7 Ka dagha t St reel 
23B, Nctaji Sublius 
Ro? id 

. . .‘in Park Siicot 

J, Church Lane 
Writers' Buit dig s 
7 Ka ilaghat SI red 

5 S. N. Bauer |e<- Road 
W riters Buil< lings 
4, Lyons 1 t.ange 
WritiTs’ Buildings 
, . 8, Council House Street 

. . 4 Hastin#« Street 

Treasury Building $ 

77-2 Park Street 
.. 2SB, 



90 


No. Namop. Style « r calling. 


2 4 Hi Smlia, .lyoiisli Chandra 
24 17 Sinha, .1 yotiprokash, Hoorn 
2 14 X Smlia Kali pa da, RA 
211H Smlia, Kamalu Kalita, Ha 
2470 SinK. i, Kslnlish Chandia, RA 
24 7 I Smlia, Mati Lai, RA . . 

2172 Sin ha, Nalmakshya, ha 
i! 1 7»: J Sinha, Narayun Oh 
217 1 Sinha., Nil Ratan. ha 
2-17.7 Sinha, 1 1 alum Ira. Lai, HSr 
247C> Sinha., li.una, Shankar, mcom 
2177 Sinha. Sasanka Mohan. HA 
2 I7S Sinha,, Sa-.mka Sekhar, lUHim 
2-17! l Sinha, Si I >a,pra.sa,t I, HOolU 
2 l(‘»(i Smlia. Smarajit. Kumiii, MA 
2 M» I Sinha, Somnath, ma, u.b 
2 Mi2 Sinha, Suhhahrata, BA 
2 M>7 Sinha. Taia Kanta, i»a 

2Mil Sin ha , Ma ra | .at ia ROOM 
2Mk> Smlia. Hay, Anil Kumai, use 
24M> Smlia I M>\ . Sat ya brat a HA 
2 Mo Si i a : .nnm m i h i . \ . I >A 
2 Mis X< •!.< i ma n MM I ! \ 

2 Mi! * Srinivasa n, Kalyaiiasundaram 
2I7U SuLramama n, M, ma 

2171 S 1 1 1 > i a n i a 1 1 1 a 1 1 I * -\ . MA 

2172 Suhra ma ilia n, V A, use 
2177 Sm Nr! ai ( hand. RSO 
247 I S\ rd. \hdiil Llakun . 


Ah.sH, I iiicfioi.iic o| Agritulturc 
Clerk, Tclcgiapn Cheek Olhco 
1 DC, D A C, P v T OII.ro 
Postal (Milk, Hallies (India), Ltd 
l ' DC I) A C 1C' I’ Otbtc 
Aretl , A 0 .West Rrugal 
V I) Clerk, 1) \-C, P & T Office 
Clerk, Standard Vucuum Oil Co 
C I e i k , Or I T, Heserve Rank of India 
Asstt Valuer, Calcutta J inprovcmeiit Trust 
Accountant, Allah. ih i 1 Bank, Ltd 
I ’ I ) ( '. I neoim M7> \ ( >ffit e . . 

Clerk, Crude II, Reserve Hank ol India, 
Auditor, A-C \s <)lhr«\ West Bengal 
Auditor, A (I West Hcnj.ra-1 
Auditor, \-( I\s Office, \ V est Rental 
Auditor, \ (1. Vest Rental 
Clerk, r r.ata Iron A Steel Co, Ltd 

C D < 7 7 * 1«- l a pi. \ Mi els ( Ml i c<* 

Asstt , Pinai ic< | )ojit 

l I) O, I V ( )l I K , • V R 
r DC, D AC I* ,\ i ( Mine 
l I > C„ T h «'| j ph ( Mm « k ( )llirc 
Clerk. Oi indla vs Bank , Ltd 
Proh Asst.t , llcsn vc Rank of India 
\cctt. I) \ C I , I Ollier 
Clerk, Oi II He ervr Rank ol India 
l ' I > Asst 1 II o'm* ;Sj > < i a I ) I )r|»t 
Asstt. him itii;ii< ol \g i unit im 


Residence < jr 

business t 

Writers' Hint;,,. 

. . 77, Dallioiisii v, 

! Smj 

. . 7 Kailagha \ , , rt 

1ft, Hare St rv< t 
. . 7 Kailaghai ,s ; u , , 

. . Treasury Rudd 111 ^ 

7, Koilaghat St i<^-i 
6, Church Lane 

S, Council }|o,a<-Nt ri 
10, Netaji Suhfi, U s [» 1(i 
. . Allahabad R.n,k Lpj 
P-S Rm.houi in ]j M(l| j 

8, ( loiinri] IToum ,stn 

.. Treasury Riulthinrt 
Treasury Riii|.|.n*> 
Treasury 

. . J reasury Hi ’aiding', j 
- . 27 R, Netaj, 

R« >ad 

77 Da !l m ai - m X.j«i.im 
W riters' RihM.pl*. 

. - 7 Co\ < PI m • ( \\'| 

7 K;i liar I i.o ,S| 

77 Da lh. a, i< 
t»- ( Mmr. h I ,;me 
. . S, ( on 1 1 * * i ! I h »n Mj 
7 Ka 1 1 . i li h . 1 1 S, i, , ; 

S. Count 1 1 J I . .a a Mr. 
\ \ i n. r ! , -! .a ■, 

\\ lit* r ! ('{!.!'[ , • 


T 


247 > 

M’ahei K;i/,i Aim. RA 

D DC Melrm a \ Mi ( M. < k ( Mlu 

77 1 la 1 1 - . 

>i "■ II M 

2 1 7 ( i 

M a g< >re, Semoy Kumar, M A 

A ii< 1 i 1 (M. Lovelock A Lewis 

4 Lyon r 

p.'i 

2177 

Talukdai , 

1 hnendrn Nath, KA 

{ 1)0. 1 T oilier. West. Kcngal 

. . P 7 Chow i ■’ 

i-jll'f X'llHI 

2 17 S 

Taluktlar, 

Sudhansu Kumar, BCoin 

Auditor. A-(Cp Ollit e. Verst Rental . . 

. . MYeast, t 

hi tiding* 

2 17'.* 

1 ' i . • h ! .. i 

Sa n jit K mil., i , 1 '*< ( >M 

Set m 1 1 \ ( M < 'em ra! Rank ol ( 1 ) Ltd (New Mai ! 

,et hr) 1 o Lint .a 

, - , .i 

2 iso 

M h .km, 1 

a man R«4i.u \ , RA 

Slate M iadiirj C.a pn »*l India Lid 

.. 72 1 Ol: 

„ x.,« 





St.nl h 


24 SI 

M hakur, Lalit Mohan, ha . . 

Auditor, ATI's Ollier, West "Bengal . . 

T reusin'; i 

hn-dlit^ 

21X2 

Modi !\l \ 

n\\ a i K ha n. 1 ’»S( ' 

Ai ell DAO P AM ( )lhee 

. . 7 Ka l la ■ • h 

; - , • 1 

24X7, 

1 ! ! | >. i . ll \ , 

1 7 1 

Ham I M osad. MS< . Dip 

Assl I 17 at lei Si \ a \ it i ; ( 7 Mleg lat e School 

70 I\M I 


24X4 

ra i 

MMidu llmtlti, RA . . 

l : lM Mek'grajMi (Musk OH lee 

. . 77 Dalhom 



U 


21X7 Up.tdhva Sunil Kum^r 


Clerk, Yeettw Dept., Brook" Rond (India), PrivaU^ 2. Met< a n< S 
Htd 


V 


24s<i Vankate.sli^ ar. U. A.vy r aizarn Audit Clerk, Price Waterhou.se Peat A Co 

Boon) 

2 PC Vanlh m Harsh . . . . x\sstt., Shaw Wallace «fe (_'o, LMl 

24SS V T arik, Kuniar Narayaiip ha Physical Instructor, Sanskrit College 


11, C 7 . 


; hai^ • 


4 li;ullO'' ,:l ' 

1 . BuiilO." Oiiith-'r*' 






■AISAKHA 13 ] 


THl'llSDAY, MAY 3, 1962 


[8 AKA 1884 


~ onH ivjntrficfltions of the Government of India; Statutory Notifications of the Election 

>ART IA India- and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 

\Zt*SZ -SU I— *-**- “ *• •Wtt. »f India" « o»!y 

republished. 

ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 


Gemlrapara T.H., 
jalpaiguri in the 


New Delhi, the 24th April 1962. 
NOTIFICATION 


3. 


Dudhram Mahali residing at 
Banarhat post office, district 
State ol West Bengal. 

Suleman Lokia residing at Mechpara T.E., Kal- 
chini prist ollice, district Jalpaiguri, in the State 

rtf Wi‘U Rrrneil. 


No 82/ 143/62.- In pursuance of the provisions of 
uh section (1) of section 86 of the Representation of 
[he People Act, 1951, the Election Commission 
hciehv publishes a copy of the Election 1 etition 
No. 14> of 1%2, presented to the C-omnussion on the 
Hih April 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, by 
Shri Mahadeo Bhagat, Birpara, district Jalpaiguri, 
calling in question the election to the Legislative 
Wmbly of the State ol West Bengal from the 
Madarihat constituency of that Assembly of b ri 
A. H. Besterwitch, Birpara T.E., post office Birpara, 
district Jalpaiguri. 


BEFORE THE ELECTION COMMISSION, 
NEW DELHI 

In the Matter of an election petition under the 
Representation of the People Act, l l L51 

And 

In the Matter of purported election for Madarihat 
Legislative Assembly Constituency ^ No. 10, 
jalpaiguri, West Bengal, held on the 25th day of 
February 1%2 

And 

In the Matter of — 

Mahadeo Bhagat residing at Birpara post office, 
district Jalpaiguri, in the State of West 
Bengal, Petitioner. 


1 Hartndranalh Brahma icsiding at Mandat para 
Purba Sat tali Bust], Hamiltonganj post office, 
Jalpaiguri, in the State of West Bengal, Respon- 
dents. 

The humble petition of Mahadeo Bhagat, the 
petitioner abovenamed 
most respectfully sheweth : — 

1. At all material times your petitioner was and 
still is a citizen of India and is ordinarily resident m 
the jalpaiguri district of the State of West Bengal, 
his actual place of residence being as stated in the 
cause title hereof. Your petitioner is an electoi from 
the 10 Madarihat Assembly Constituency. 

2. In the last Geneial Election held in February 
1962 the Madarihat Assembly Constituency of the 
State ol West Bengal was reserved for the Scheduled 
Tribes in relation to the said Constituency. By a 
notification in the Official Gazette the electors of the 
said Constituency were called upon to elect one 
member to the Legislative Assembly of the State of 
West Bengal being a member of one of the Scheduled 
Tribes in relation to the said Constituency mention- 
ed in the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 

1 T The Murrda Tribe is a Scheduled Tribe within 
the provisions of the said Order throughout the 
State of West Bengal. 

4. Your petitioner is a member of the Oraon 
Tribe which is also a tribe mentioned in the said 
Order in relation to the State of West Bengal. 


versus 

A. H. Besterwitch residing at Birpara T.E., post 
office Birpara, district Jalpaiguri, in the State of 
West Bengal, 


5 Your petitioner as well as the respondents sub- 
nitted their nominations from the said Constituency 
or a seat in the Legislative Assembly of the State 
>f West Bengal reserved for the Scheduled Tribes. 



58 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 

#r ’ 


6. The respondent No. 1 filed a nomination paper 
in which he declared inter alia that he was a 
member of the Munda Tribe. Your petitioner filed 
an objection to the nomination paper of the respon- 
dent No. 1 on the ground inter alia that the 
aforesaid declaration made by the respondent No. J 
was false and that the respondent No. 1 was not a 
member of the Munda Tribe or any other Scheduled 
Tribe at all. The objection of your petitioner was 
considered by the Returning Officer and was wrong- 
fully rejected by him. The nomination paper of the 
respondent No. 1 was declared by the Returning 
Officer to be valid. 

7. A list containing the names of your petitioner 
and the respondents including the respondent No. 1 
as being only contesting candidates from the said 
Constituency was published by the Returning Officer. 

8. Polling in the said Constituency for the elec- 
tion of a member to a scat in the Legislative 
Assembly of the State of West Bengal reserved for a 
member of Scheduled Tribe (hereinafter referred to 
as the said election) was held on the 25th February 
1962. 


9. On or about 28th February 1962 (hereinafter 
referred to as the date of the said election) the 
result of the said election was declared by the Re- 
turning Officer and the respondent No. 1 was 
declared to have been elected. The contesting 
candidates were declared to have secured the 
following number of votes: — 


Names of Candidates 


Votes polled 


(1) A. H. Besterwitch ... 10,974 

(2) Mahadeo Bhagat ... 10,844 

(3) Budhram Mahali ... 4,671 

(4) Harendranath Brahma ... 1,497 

(5) Suleman Lakra ... 657 


10. Your petitioner is desirous of challenging the 
election of the respondent No. 1 as void inter alia 
upon the grounds and by reason of the fact stated 
hereinafter. Your petitioner states that your peti- 
tioner is a person competent to do sc and to present 
this election petition. 

11. Your petitioner states that the respondent 
No. 1 neycr was nor is a member of the Munda 
Tribe of the State of West Bengal or of any other 
Scheduled Tribe in that State as will appear from the 
following facts: 

(i) The respondent No. 1 is a Christian by 

religion. 

(ii) The respondent No. 1 originally belonged to 

Nagpur and came to the State of West 
Bengal only in the year 1934. He has no 
relations in the State of West Bengal and is 
also not in any way related to any member 
of the Munda Tribe. 


(iii) In the General Election held in the year 

1952 the respondent No. 1 submitted a 
nomination paper to contest a reserved seat 
from the Kalchini Constituency (Double 
Member) as a member of a Scheduled 
Tribe but his nomination paper was rejected 
by the Returning Officer concerned on the 
ground inter alia that he was not a member 
of any Scheduled Tribe. 

(iv) During the General Election held in 1957 the 

respondent No. 1 contested a seat from 
Kalchini Assembly Constituency of the 


[Pak t 1a 



State of West Bengal and he did not cl 
to be a member of any Scheduled Tribe^ 11 

(v) The respondent No. 1 does not know nor 

speak the Munda dialect. Cai 

(vi) The respondent No. 1 was baptised at tu 

St. Francis de Sales’ Cathedral, Naiirv 
and it appears from the Register of Bjntk 
kept in the said Cathedral that the nation 
lity of the respondent No. i has h‘‘ 
described there to be Anglo Indian. U 

(vii) Being an Anglo-Indian the respondent No 
cannot claim to be a member of a Schedule 
Tribe or to contest any seat reserved l 
Scheduled Tribes. 

(viii) The respondent No. 1 as well as th 
members of his family have always bee 
and still are Anglo-Indians. ' 1 

12. In the premises your petitioner states that {[ 
respondent No. 1 never was nor is qualified to \ 
chosen to fill a seat in the Legislative Assembly ; 
the State of West Bengal reserved for the Schedule 
Tribes of that State. On the date of the said elei 
tion the respondent No. 1 was not qualified to t 
chosen to fill such a seat. In the premises tli 
election of the respondent No. 1 being the rcturne 
candidate should be declared to be void. 

13. Your petitioner further states that in fat 
your petitioner received a majority of the valid vote 
In any event but for the votes obtained by the n 
turned candidate by corrupt practices the petitions 
would have obtained a majority of the valid vote; 
In the premises your petitioner prays that he may h 
declared to have been duly elected at the said elec 
tion from the said Constituency. 

14. Your petitioner has duly deposited a sum r 
Rs. 2,000 in the Reserved Bank of India in favour < 
Jtho Flection Commission as security for the costs r 
this petition. The Government Treasury reccif 
showing such deposit of Rs. 2,000 is enclosed wit 
this petition. 

Your petitioner, therefore, humbly prays— 

(a) that the election of the respondent No. 1 iror 

the said Constituency be declared to b 
void; 

(b) that the petitioner be declared to have beci 

duly elected from the said Constituency. 

(c) costs of and incidental to this application 

to be paid by the respondent No. 1. 

(d) such further orders be made in the circum 

stances as may be just. 

And for this your petitioner as in duty bound sha 
ever pray. 

Verification 

I, Mahadeo Bhagat, son of late Beni Bhagat, th 
petitioner abovenamed, do hereby declare that th 
statements in all the paragraphs in the foregoin 
petition are true to my knowledge. 

I sign this verification on the 9th day of Apr 
1962 at No. 59B Chowringhee Road, Calcutta. 

MAHADEO BHAGAT. 


By Order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secretary 
Election Commission, India. 


Pas* *A] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


59 


New Delhi-11, the 

12th April 1962. 

No. WB-LA/250/62(l). — In pursuance of sub-rule 
(5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
name of the person shown in column I of the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the constituency specified 
in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 

has, in accordance with the decision given today by 
the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the 
said rule, failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision: 

Schedule 

Name of contesting candidate 

1 

Shri Munshi Majhi, Village Mashina, P.O. 

Maluti, District Birbhum. 

Name of constituency 

Z 

Rampurhat. 


By order, 


K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 

New Delhi-11, the 9th April 1962. 

No. WB-LA/21 1 162(2). In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 

1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies, the 
name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the constituency specified 
in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, 

in accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision: 

Schedule 

Name of contesting candidate 

1 

Shri Brajendra Hansda, Village Dhenga Am. P.O. 
Motgoda, District Bankura. 

Name of constituency 

Z 

Rajpur. 


By order. 


K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 

New Delhi-11, the 

9th April 1962. 

No. WB-LA/217/62(3). — In pursuance of sub- 
iQ 4 i ^ ru ^ e Conduct of Elections Rules, 

1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies, the 
of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
legislative Assembly from the constituency specified 
m column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, 

in accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision: 

Schedule 

Name of contesting candidate 

1 

^riPtafulla Chandra Roy, Village and 

EO, Beliatore, District Bankura. 

Name of constituency 

2 

Barjora. 


By order, 


K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 


60 


[Part ^ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


== ' 1 9 — - = -= **= 3 =- 

New Delhi-11, the 9th April 1962. 


No. WB-LA/ 125/ 62(4).— In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies, the 
names of the persons shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been contesting 
candidates for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the constituency specified 
in the corresponding entries in column 2 there- 
of, at the election held in 1962 have, in 


accordance with the decision given today by th 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge any accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to tta 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 0 f th 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on thp 
expiration of two months from the date of the sain 
decision: a 


Schedule 


Names of contesting candidates 
1 

1. Shri Sunil Kumar Chatterjee, 4/1 A 
Gomesh Lane (2nd Floor), Calcutta-14. 

2. Shri Anil Dey, 48 Gora Chand Road, 
Calcutta-14. 

3. Shrt Haridas Saha, 4D New Kasia Bagan 
Lane, Calcutta-17. 


Name of constituency 
2 

Entally. 

Entally. 

Entally. 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 


New Delhi-11, the 10th April 1962. 


No. WB-LA/ 124/62(5). — In pursuance of sub- 
rufle (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies, the 
name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the constituency specified 
in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, 

Name of contesting candidate 
1 

Shri Chandra Bhusan Roy, 27/1 /H/ 7 Canal 
East Road, Calcutta-11. 


in accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision: 

Schedule 

Name of constituency 
2 

Sukeas Street. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 


New Delhi-11, the 12th April 1962. 


No. WB-LA/ 70/ 62(8). — In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5)’ of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies, the 
name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the constituency specified 
in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, 


in accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision: 


Schedule 


Name of contesting candidate 

1 

Shri Abdul Jalil, Vill. Sonakenia, P.O. 
Prithiba, District 24-Parganas. 


Name of constituency 
2 

Habra. 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


61 


Pakt 1A] 

* i 


New Delhi-11, the 12th April 1962. 


No. WB-LA/ 210/ 62(9).— In pursuance of sub- 
r|i l e ( 5 ) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 

1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies, the 
names of the persons shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been contesting 
candidates for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the constituency specified 
in the corresponding entries in column 2 there- 
of at the election held in 1962 have, in 

Schedule 

Names of contesting candidates 

1 

1. Shri Mansuf Saren, Village Joynagar, 

P.O. Susnia, District Bankura. 

2. Shri Brajendra Hansda, Village Dhenga 
Am, P.O. Motgoda, District Bankura. 


accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge any accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision: 


Name of constituency 
2 

Raniband. 

Raniband. 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 


New Delhi-11, the 

No. WB-LA/ 196/ 62(10). — In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 

1961 , the Election Commission hereby notifies, the 
name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the constituency specified 
in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, 


12th April 1962. 

in accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision: 


Schedule 

Name of contesting candidate Name of constituency 

1 2 
Shri Birendra Nath Saren, Village Chhota Thargram. 

Bonsar, P.O. Parihati, District Midna- 
pore. 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 


New Delhi-1 1 , the 

No WB-LA/ 64 /62(H).- In pursuance of sub- 
iqm ' ru k the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
the Election Commission hereby notifies, the 
" a , mc . of the person shown in column 1 of the 
c below who having been a contesting 
andKiate for the election to the West Bengal 
las ative Assembly from the constituency specified 
colmnn 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, 

Schedule 

Name of contesting candidate 

1 

Shri Promatha Ranjan Thakur, P.O. Bagoola, 

District Nadia. 


17th April 1962. 

in accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision: 


Name of constituency 
2 

Hanskhali. 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 


62 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


1 A 


New Delhi-11, the 17th April 1962. 


No. WB-LA/64/62(12). — In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies, the 
name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the constituency specified 
in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, 


in accordance with the decision given today bv th 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the s'vl 
rule, failed to lodge any account of his eiectin 
expenses in the manner required by law and w°i 
accordingly become subject to the 'disqualificatin 
under clause (c) of section 7 of the Represen tat;? 1 
of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of 
months from the date of the said decision: 1 c 


Schedule 


Name of contesting candidate 
1 

Shri Bidyadhar Nandy, 326/1 Belilious Road, 
P.O. Howrah, District Howrah. 


Name of constituency 
2 

Hanskhali. 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 


New Delhi-1 1 , the 10th April 1962. 


No. WB-LA/ 21 3/62(6).— In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies, the 
names of the persons shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been contesting 
pandidates for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the constituency specified 
in the corresponding entries in column 2 there- 
of, at the election held in 1962 have, in 


accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge any accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision: 


Schedule 


Names of contesting candidates 

1 

1. Shri Subodh Chandra Ghosh, Vill. 
Harrah, P.O. Onda, District Bankura. 

2. Shri Sakti Chattopadhyaya, Vill. Damo- 
darbati, P.O. Damodarbati, District 
Bankura. 

3. Shri Ajit Narain Mukhopadhyay, Vill. 
Teliberia, P.O. Teliberia, District 
Bankura. 


Name of constituency 
2 

Onda. 

Onda. 

Onda. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 


New Dclhi-11, the 11th April 1962. 


No. WB-LA /1 23/ 62(7).— In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies, the 
name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the constituency specified 
in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, 


in accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision: 


Schedule 


Name of contesting candidate 

1 

Shri Sadhan Prosad Dutta, B73 College 
Street Market, Calcutta- 12. 


Name of constituency. 

2 

Burtola North. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


63 


Pah* ^ 


New Delhi, the 27th April 1962. 

Mo 82/172/62. — In pursuance of the provisions of 
,h section (1) of section 86 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election 
, Vmmission hereby publishes a copy of the Election 
potion No. 172 of 1962, presented to the Com- 
mission on the 11th April 1962, under section 81 of 
die said Act, by Shri Sudhir Goswami, son of 
p nchanan Goswami, village Aniya (Dakshinpara), 
nost office Aniya, district Hooghly, West Bengal, 
calling in question the election to the Legislative 
Assembly of the State of West Bengal, from the 
Chanditala constituency of that Assembly of Shri 
Kanai Lall Dey, resident of Rampura (North), post 
office Dakshindihi, district Hooghly, West Bengal. 


Election Petition No. of 1962. 

before the election commission 

Sudhir Goswami, son of Panchanan Goswami, resid- 
ing at village Aniya (Dakshinpara), post office 
Aniya, district Hooghly in the State of West 
Bengal, Petitioner 

versus 

Kanai Lall Dey, residing at Rampara (North), post 
office Dakshindihi, district Hooghly, in the State 
of West Bengal, Respondent. 

The humble petition of the petitioner above- 
named 


Most Respectfully Sheweth: 

1. At all material times your petitioner was and 
still is a citizen of India and was and still is a resident 
of village Aniya (Dakshinpara), post office Aniya, 
district Hooghly, in the State of West Bengal. 


2. The aforesaid village being the actual place of 
residence of your petitioner was and is situated 
within the area which formed 152— Chanditala 
Assembly Constituency (hereinafter referred to as 
the said Constituency) within the Serampore Parlia- 
mentary Constituency No. 22 in the last General 
Election held in February 1962 inter alia for the 
election of Members to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly under the Constitution of India and other 
enactments passed therefor. 


L At all material times your petitioner was an 
elector and was entitled to vote at the said last 
General Election held in or about February 1962 in 
the said Constituency and the serial number of your 
petitioner in the Electoral Roll for the said Con- 
stituency, prepared in 1960 by the appropriate 
authorities for the purpose of the said election in the 
jmd Constituency, was No. 59, Part 68 (Aniya, 
Dakshinpara). 


4- Your petitioner states that the said last General 
Election, inter alia, for the election of a Member 
°l the West Bengal Legislative Assembly from the 
p, C° n stituency (hereinafter referred to as “the said 
u° n ) was on the 19th February 1962 for 
n, cn the candidates were as follows: — 


(1) Sailendra Prosad Ghosh, 

(2) Kanai Lall Dey (Respondent herein), 
°) Mohamed Abdul Latif. 


5. On the 28th February 1962 at about 12-30 a.m. 
the results of the said Election were announced after 
the counting of the votes therefor had been completed 
by one Shri K. P. A. Menon who was appointed by 
the appropriate authorities as the Returning Officer 
for the said Constituency and the Respondent Kanai 
Lall Dey was declared elected as a Member of the 
said Constituency to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly. 

6. The results of the said Election were declared 
as follows: 

Name Votes polled. 

(1) Sailendra Prosad Ghosh ... 1,928 

(2) Kanai Lall Dey ... 21,204 

(3) Mohamed Abdul Latif ... 20,919 

Total number of rejected votes — 1,613. 

7. Your petitioner submits and states that the 
election of the returned candidate was and is void 
as: — 

(a) Corrupt practices had been committed by the 

returned candidate, the respondent Kanai 
Lall Dey herein, or his election agent or 
other persons with the consent of the re- 
turned candidate or his election agent; 

(b) the result of the election, in so far as it con- 

cerned the returned candidate, has been 
materially affected by : — 

(i) corrupt practices committed in the interest of 

the returned candidate by agents other 
than his election agent and/or by persons 
other than the said candidate or his elec- 
tion agent or persons acting with the con- 
sent of the said candidate or election 
agent; 

(ii) non-compliance with the provisions of the 

Constitution and/or the Representation 
of the People Act. 1951, or Rules or 
Orders made thereunder. 

Some of the particulars are set out hereunder: — 

8. Your petitioner states that the said Election of 
the respondent Kanai Lall Dey to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the said 152 Chanditala 
Assembly Constituency in the last General Election 
aforesaid was and is void, inter alia, on the follow- 
ing grounds: — 

A. The following corrupt practices have been 
committed by the said Kanai Lall Dey or his 
election agent or by other persons with the 
consent of the said Kanai Lall Dey or his 
election agent: 

Particulars 

(i)(a) At various meetings some of which were 
held on dates and places mentioned in 
Annexure “A” hereof, the respondent Kanai 
Lall Dey and/or his election agent and/or 
his agents and/or his workers and sup- 
porters and/or persons who were interested 
in the said respondent Kanai Lall Dey told 
the Mohamedan audience that the holy 
Koran and the Hadis enjoined upon 
Mohamedans to be loyal to the ruling party 
and, as such, for a Mohamedan voter to vote 
for Shri Kanai Lall Dey, the candidate of 
the ruling Congress Party, was the fulfilling 


64 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1942 


of an obligation enjoined upon Mohamedans 
by the holy Koran and the Hadis; that the 
Communist candidate Mohamed Abdul 
Latif was an athiest and was opposed to 
everything which Islam held sacred and to 
vote for said Mohamed Abdul Latif was 
anti-Isiamic and any Mohamedan voting for 
him would have the wrath of Allah upon 
him. The said utterances were made by, 
inter alia, Haji Mohiuddin, Abdus Sabur and 
Ekramuddin Molla in the presence of the 
respondent Kanai Lall Dey and with his con- 
sent. 

(b) By reason of the aforesaid utterances at the 
said meetings held by the said respondent 
Kanai Lall Dey and others as aforesaid, a 
large number of Mohamedan voters voted for 
the said respondent Kanai Lall Dey or re- 
frained from voting for the said Mohamed 
Abdul Latif although they had earlier 
decided to vote for the said Mohamed 
Abdul Latif. 

(ii)(a) At various meetings some of which were 
held on dates and places mentioned in 
Annexarc “B” hereof, the Respondent 
Kanai Lall Dey and/or his election agent 
and/or his agents and/or his 
workers and supporters and/or persons 
who were interested in the said res- 
pondeat Kanai Lall Dey or other persons 
told the Hindu audience that the Communist 
candidate Mohamed Abdul Latif was a 
Mohamedan and that if Hindu voters voted 
for the said Mohamed Abdul Latif and 
returned him to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly the said Mohamed Abdul Latif 
would create Pakistan in West Bengal by 
annexing West Bengal to East Pakistan and 
there would be an end of the Hindu religion. 
The said utterances were made by, inter 
alia, Jogeswar Paul, Bimal Kanti Ghose, 
Satish Kundu in the presence of the res- 
pondent Kanai Lall Dey and with his con- 
sent. 

(b) By reason of the aforesaid utterances many 
Hindu voters refrained from voting for the 
said Mohamed Abdul Latif. 

(iii)(a) At a group meeting held on or about 14th 
February 1962 at about 4 p.m. in the village 
Aniya (Dudkanara) within the said Consti- 
tuency the said respondent Kanai Lall Dey 
and/or his agents and/or other persons who 
were interested in the said respondent 
Kanai Lall Dey, namely, inter alia, Abdus 
Sabur, Balai Chand Gangopadhya and 
Keshtodhan Chandra threatened the Moha- 
medan voters of the said village that unless 
they voted for the Congress candidate the 
respondent Kanai Lall Dey, they would be 
dealt with very harshly by the ruling Con- 
gress Party and that the Hindu land owners 
whose land they cultivated as share- 
croppers would take away the land from 
them. The said Balai Chand Gangopadhya 
was a big owner of land and many of the 
said Mohammedan voters cultivated his 
land as ' share-croppers. The aforesaid 
threat was made by, inter alia, the said 


[Part ^ 



Abdus Sabur and Balai Qia . 
Gangopadhya in the presence of the 
pondent Kanai Lall Dey and with his cq 
sent. on ‘ 

(b) The aforesaid threat induced manv 
Mohamedan voters of the said villace 
(Aniya, Dudkanara) to refrain from votiL 
for the said Communist candidate Mohamet 
Abdul Latif, although they had earlier decid 
ed to do so. 

(ivXa) On or about 11th February 1962 at about 
6-30 p.m. at a group meeting held in the 
outer house of one Jobed Ali of village 
Kumirmora within the said Constituency 
the respondent Kanai Lall Dey handed over 
to Jogeswar Paul of village Ramanathpur 
and Ekramuddin Molla of village Jalamadal 
both villages being in the Nawabpur-Kumir- 
mora Union within the said Constituency 
Rs. 2,000 to repair the tube-well in front of 
the mosque situated in the Dakshinpara of 
village Kumirmora within the said Con- 
stituency and to purchase furniture for the 
local Primary School located in the Dakshin- 
para of the said Kumirmorah village and to 
spend the balance of the said sum of 
Rs. 2,000 to bribe the voters of the said 
Kumirmora village, all the disbursements 
having as their object the inducing of the 
voters of the said village to vote for the 
respondent Kanai Lall Dey. The said tube- 
well has actually been repaired and the 
furniture of the said school has in fact been 
purchased with a portion of the said sum ol 
Rs. 2,000. The said Jogeswar Paul and 
Ekramuddin Molla were active Congress 
workers. 

(b) By reason of the aforesaid bribery a large 
number of voters of the said Kumirmora 
village voted against the Communist candi- 
date Mohamed Abdul Latif and for the res- 
pondent Kanai Lall Dey, although they were 
earlier inclined to vote for the said 
Mohamed Abdul Latif. 

(v)(a) On or about 18th February 1962 at about 
6 p.m. the respondent Kanai Lall Dey and / 
or his agents and/or his workers and sup- 
porters paid at village Mukundpur within 
the said Constituency through one Salamat- 
ullah of village Furfura and an employee of 
the Calcutta Corporation, Rs. 90 to one 
Satish Karmakar of the said village Mukund- 
pur to purchase furniture for the local J 
Primary School on the stipulation that the 
said Satish Karmakar would induce the 
voters of the said Mukundpur village to vote 
against the Communist candidate and for 
the respondent Kanai Lall Dey. 

(b) As a result of the aforesaid bribery a large 
number of voters of the said Mukundpur 
village who had earlier decided to v0 * e *°j 
the Communist candidate Mohamed Abau 
Latif refrained from voting for the sai 
Communist candidate and voted tot t 
respondent Kanai Lall Dey. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


65 



A Corrupt practices have been committed in the 
interest oi the returned candidate the said 
respondent Kanai Lall Dey by agents other 
than his election agent or persons acting with 
the consent ot the said candidate or election 
agent: 

Particulars 

(i) (a) Mohamed Abdul Kaiyum of village 

Bandhpur within the said Constituency, who 
was an active supporter ot the Congress 
candidate and a former Zamindar exercis- 
ing power and influence over the inhabitants 
oMhe said village threatened the voters ot 
i he said village that unless they voted for 
the Congress candidate, the respondent 
Kanai Lall Dey, all lands belonging to the 
said Mohamed Abdul Kaiyum and cultivated 
by a large number of voters of said village 
as share-croppers would be taken away from 
them and they would not be allowed to live 
in the village. 

(b) By reason of the aforesaid threat many voters 
of the said village voted for the respondent 
Kanai Lall Dey thereby materially affecting 
the result of the election in so tar as it con- 
cerns the returned candidate. 

( ii) (a) Kazi Mommenal llaque, son-in-law of the 

aforesaid Mohamed Abdul Kaiyum and a 
counting agent of the Respondent Kanai Lall 
Dey, residing at Bandhpur (Chandhati) .with- 
in the said Constituency widely circulated 
m the said village, free ot cost, a booklet 
in the Bengali language entitled “Com- 
munism through the Eve of Islam” “ ^ntw 
•ictft -wf-w” purported to be written by one 
Taybu! llaque, Secretary, West Bengal 
Mutwalli Association, in which Communism 
was depicted as the enemy ot Liam and 
Mohamedan voters were exhoi led to uproot 
Communism from the soil ol the country 
through the weapon of the ballot papers in 
the coming General Election, The said 
booklet is annexed hereto and is marked 
with the letter *“C”. 

lb) The said booklet and its distribution by the 
aforesaid Kazi Momenal Haque had a great 
impact on the minds of the Mohamedan 
voters and induced them to vote for the 
respondent Kanai Lall Dev theieby 
materially affecting the result of the •election 
in so far as it concerned the returned candi- 
date. 

I iii) The agents and/or workers and/or sup- 
porters acting for the said lespondent Kanai 
ball Dey or for his benefit hired or procured 
whether 'on payment or otherwise vehicles 
including jeeps, lorries, cycle rikshaws for 
the conveyance of the electors (other than 
said Kanai Lall Dev or members of h.s 
family or his agent) to and from the Polling 
Stations fixed for the purpose of polling on 
the day of polling, i.e., 10th Febiuarv 1062, 
thereby materially affecting the result of the 
election in so fui as it concerns the relumed 
candidate. 

^°ur petitioner craves leave to furnish particulars 

.^J^the time of hearing. 

‘Not published. 


C. There have been the following non-com- 
pliances with the provisions of the Constitu- 
tion and/or the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, and/or Rules or Orders 
made thereunder materially affecting there- 
by the result of the election in so far as it 
concerned the returned candidate. 

Particulars 

(i)(a) The Polling Station No. 22-152/51 which 
was shown in the list showing the Polling 
Stations of the said Constituency published 
in accordance with the provisions of law, as 
located in Dudkalmi U. P. School, Dud- 
kalmi, a village which was sympathetic 
to the Communist candidate, to 
Chakkrishtorampur U. P. School, Chak- 
krishtorampur which was a stronghold of 
the Congress party and which was about a 
mile in distance from the said Dudkalmi 
village. The said transfer was made on the 
day of the Polling and no intimation and/ 
or notice ol the said transfer was given 
either to the Communist candidate and/or 
his Election Agent and/or to the voters 
who were entitled to vote at the said 
Polling Station. 

(b) By reason of the said illegal transfer a large 
number of voters entitled to vote at the said 
Polling Station, in particular the voters 
belonging to the village Gururiponta who 
were sympathetic to the Communist candi- 
date could not exercise their electoral right. 

bi)(a) The Polling Stations Nos. 22-152/71 and 
22-152/72, both located at Ramanathpur 
Senior Basic School, Ramanathpur, were 
closed by the Presiding Officers concerned 
for half an hour each between 12-30 p.m. 
and I p.m. The said closure was con- 
trary to the hours fixed and published for 
taking the poll, i.e., from 7-30 a.m. to 4-30 
p.m. without any closuie or break. 

(b) As a result of the aforesaid illegal closure a 
large number of voters who were entitled to 
vote at the said Polling Stations and who 
came to vote to the said Polling Stations 
and were standing in the queue and the 
voters who came between 12-30 p.m. and 
I p.m., and in particular Mohamedan female 
voters, could not exercise their electoral 
right. 

(iii) The ballot box of the Polling Station 
No. 22-152/57 was found on being opened 
at the counting table at the time of count- 
ing to have no inner seal to secure it. The 
counting agent of The Communist candidate 
objected to the counting of the said ballot 
box on the ground of its having no inner 
seal to secure it. 

(iv) The ballot box of the Polling Station No. 
22-152/43 was brought to the counting table 
at the time of counting in an unlocked condi- 
tion with the lid loose. The counting Agent 
of the Communist candidate objected to the 
counting of the said ballot box on the 
ground of its said condition. 


THE (’AT/ -ITT A GAZETTE, MAV 3, 1962 


(tG 


gaagggggg Tsssssn = 1 = === = 

(v) The date on which the respondent Kanai 
Lall Dey was declared to be elected to the 
West Bengal Legislative Assembly was 28th 
February 1962 at 12-30 a.m. and not 27th 
February 1962 as in erroneously recorded 
by the Returning Officer in Form 21. 

9. If necessary, your petitioner will furnish further 
details and give better particulars in respect of the 
statements made in the various paragraphs herein- 
above after discovery and inspection or if required at 
the time of hearing. 

10. In the aforesaid facts and circumstances your 
petitioner states that the election of the respondent 
Kanai Lall Dey should be declared void and/or the 
said entire election be declared to be wholly void. 

11. Your petitioner has deposited a sum of 
Rs. 2,000 with the Reserve Bank ol India at 
Calcutta in favour of the Election Commission as 
security for the costs of this petition and the said 
Reserve Bank of India— Receipt of the said deposit 
is annexed herewith. 

Your petitioner, therefore, prays - 

(a) that it may be declared that the Election of 

the respondent Kanai Lall Dey in the last 
General Election held in February 1962 
from 152— Chanditola Assembly Constitu- 
ency to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly is void; 

(b) if necessary, it may be declared that the said 

Election is wholly void; 

(c) that costs of and incidental to the petition be 

awarded against the said respondent; 

(d) such other order and directions be given as 

to the Election Commission seems fit and 
proper. 

And your petitioner as in duty bound shall ever pray. 


SUDHIR GOSWAML 


Verification 

I do hereby declare that what is stated in para- 
graphs I, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, sub-paragraphs A(l)(a), (b), 
(ii)( a), (b), (iii)(a), (b), (iv)(b) and B(i)(a), (b), 

( i i )( a ), (b), (iii) and C(iii), (iv) and (v) and paragraph 
1 1 are true to my knowledge, and what is stated in 
paragraph 8, sub-paragraphs A(iv)(a), (v)(a) and 

C(iKa), (b), (ii)(a), (b) are true to information receiv- 
ed by me and believed to be true by me and what is 
stated in paragraphs 7, 9, and 10 are my submissions. 
1 sign his verification at Calcutta on the 9th day 
of April 1962. 


[Part ^ 

==SB5, 

ANNEXURE “A” 

Annexure referred to in paragraph 8, sulv nan< 
graph (i)(a) 

Date, time, place and speakers present. 

21st January 1962, 6 p.m., Bhagabatipur Bazar 
Kanai Lall Dey (The respondent herein). 

22nd January 1962, 2 p.m., Kumirmora Old Schoo 
compound — Kanai Lall Dey (responden 

herein), Wadudur Rahman, Haji Mohiuddin. 

29th January 1962, 4-30 p.m., Sinjor- Kanai Lai 
Dey (respondent herein), llaji Younus, Ha/ 
Mohiuddin. 

6th February 1962, 4 p.m., Khelsar Chak Schoo 
compound — Kanai Lall Dey (responds 

herein), Hamidul Haque, Nitai Chandra Banda 
padhya, Ekramuddin Molla. 

Verification 

I do hereby declare that the statements made m 
the Annexure “A” hereinabove are true to nn 
knowledge. I sign this verification at Calcutta on the 
9th day of April 1962. 

SUDHIR GOSWAMI 

Calcutta, 

9th April 1962. 


ANNEXURF “B” , 

Annexure referred to in paragraph 8, sub-paragraph' 
(iiXa) 

Date, time, place and speakers present 

4th January 1962, 5-30 p.m., Alipur School com- 
pound- Kanai Lall Dey (respondent herein' 
Jogeswar Paul, Bimal Kant i Chose. 

27th January 1962, 6-30 p.m.. In the house ol 
Sukumar Sen at village Kalyanbati kanai Lull 
Dey (respondent herein), Satish Kuiulu and 
others. 

3rd February 1962, 4-30 p.m., Jangalpara -Kushn.i 
rampur Deshatran High School com pound 
Kanai Lall Dey (respondent herein), Buna 
Chose. 

Verification. 

I do hereby declare that the statements conluinu 
in the Annexure “B M hereinabove are true to ir |' 
knowledge. I sign this verification at Calcutta o 
the 9th day of April 1962. 

SUDHIR GOSWAMI 

Calcutta, 

9th April 1962. 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 


Calcutta, 
9th April 1962. 


SUDHIR GOSWAMI. 



TTTfl CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, W2 


67 




New Delhi, the 28th April 1962. 

NOTIFICATION 

No 82/110/62.— In pursuance of the provisions of 
sub-section (1) of section 86 of the Representation 
S j t jj e people Act, 1951, the Election Commission 
hereby publishes a copy of the Election Petition 
No IHl °f 1962, presented to the Commission on the 
lOth April 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, 
bv Shri Ajit Kumar Basil, resident of Bara, police- 
station Singur, district Hooghly, West Bengal, 
calling in question the election to the Legislative 
.Assembly of the State of West Bengal from the 
* Singur Constituency of that Assembly of Shri 
Pravakar Pal, Madhya Hijla, police-station Singur, 
district Hooghly, West Bengal. 


To 

'1 he Election Commission, India, 

Aurangzeb Road, New Delhi. 

Election Petition No. 110 of 1962. 

In the matter of an Election Petition under the 
Pari VI of the Representation of the Peoples 
Act, 1951 (Act 43 of 1951). 

And 

In the matter of calling in question the election to 
the West Bengal Legislative Assembly from 
Singur Assembly Constituency in the district 
ol Hooghly in West Bengal held on the 21st day 
of February 1962, the result having been 
declared on the 26th day of February 1962. 

And 

in the matter of Ajit Kumar Basu, son of late 
Am ulya Charan Basu, residing at Bara within 
the jurisdiction of police-station Singur in the 
district of Hooghly, Petitioner. 

versus 

tl) Pravakar Paul, residing at Madhya llijli, police- 
station Singur, district Hooghly. 

(2) Ajit Kumar Bhattacharya, residing at Bisweswar- 
hati, police-station Singur, district Hooghly, 
Respondents. 

The humble petition of the petitioner 
abovenamod. 

Most respectfully sheweth: 

1. That vour petitioner was an elector of Singur, 
West Bengal Legislative Assembly Constituency in 
district of Hooghly, being voter in Serial 
Number I of mauza Bara-Kamalapur, Part No. 412 
of the Electoral Roll of Singur Constituency and 
a duly nominated contesting candidate for 
deition to ihe West Bengal Legislative Assembly 
‘ r °m Singur Assembly Constituency during the last 
General Elections. 

2- That the respondent was the other candidate 
contested the said election to 
the West Bengal Legislative Asscmlv 
•rom Singur Asemblys Constituency and 
Was . declared duly elected by the Returning Officer 
the 26th day of February 1962, the Polling having 
taken place on the 21st day of February 1962. Your 
Pwtioner secured 28,822 votes and the respondent 


No. 1 Shri Pravakar Pal secured 28,853 votes accord- 
ing to the declaration made by the Returning Officer. 
According to the Returning Officer, the respondent 
No. 1 secured only 31 votes more than your 
petitioner. 

3. That the respondent No. 2 was the third candi- 
date lor election to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly from the said Singur Constituency, but 
he withdrew his candidature by a notice in writing 
to the Returning Officer in accordance with the 
provisions of section 37 of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, within the prescribed time. There 
was no other candidate. 

4. That the respondent No. 1 was the candidate 
of the Congress Party and his symbol “Two bullocks 
with yoke on”. Your petitioner was the candidate 
of the Communist Party and his symbol was “Ears 
of Corn and sickle”. 

5. That the election of the returned candidate, 
the aforesaid respondent No. 1, is void and invalid 
on the ground that very serious corrupt practices 
were committed by the respondent No. 1 who 
personally appealed extensively to vote for himself 
on the ground of the caste and/or community v>f 
respondent No. 1. The respondent No. 1 also 
appealed extensively to refrain from voting for vour 
petitioner on the ground of his caste, as your 
petitioner was born in a Kayastha family and is not 
a Mahisya by caste. 

6. That the respondent No. 1 is a Mahisya by 
caste and within the Constituency, there are several 
thousands of electors who are Mahisyas by caste. 
In fact, there are many villages and localities within 
the Singur Assembly Constituency which arc almost 
exclusively inhabited by Mahisyas. Your petitioner 
is not a Mahisya but comes of a Kayastha family. 

7. That repeatedly and in many meetings, the 
repondent No. 1 himself made fervent appeals to 
vote for him on the ground of his caste and to 
refrain from voting for vour petitioner on the ground 
of his (petitioner’s) caste and thereby committed 
corrupt practice. Particulars of a few such cases of 
appeal on that ground are given below and your 
petitioner prays for leave to supply more particulars 
later on. 

8. That a public meeting was held on the 26th 
day of January 1962 at about 4 p.m. at the Borai 
South School compound within the Singur Assembly 
Constituency. The respondent No. 1 was one of the 
speakers in that meeting. The overwhelming 
majority of the population of that locality consisted 
of Mahisyas. The respondent No. 1 in his address 
spoke inter alia: 

To you Mahisyas, I say that I am a Mahisya and 
I appeal that all Mahisyas should vote for 
me. 

Some people present in the meeting asked: You 
are a Congress Candidate. If one does not approve 
of the policies and practices of the Congress, how 
could he vote for you even though he mav be a 
Mahisya? 

At this the respondent No. 1 said that it was 
practically impossible to win an election without 
joining a party. Congress was the ruling party and 
therefore he had joined it. Although a Congress 


68 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


M.L.A. has tried to do his bit for the Mahisyas. He 
was a Mahisya first, a Congressman next. Would 
the audience not vote for him even when they saw 
that the defeat of their Jatbhai (caste-brother) was 
almost certain, at the hands ol a Kayet (kayastha), 
unless Mahisyas voted e n block for him. H»* made 
this appeal repeatedly to the audience who were 
practically all Mahisyas. A copy of an affidavit 
sworn by Shri Bhim Chandra Das of Pahalampur 
village is annexed herewith and marked *Annexure 
“A” to this petition and a copy ol the leaflet 

announcing the aforesaid meeting is annexed here- 
with and marked *Annexure “A” lor reference at 
the hearing. These will support the statement made 
in this paragraph. 

9. That in the village Dewanbhari at Dewanbhari 

Purbapara Shibtola another public meeting was held 
on the 29th day of January, 1962 at about 4 p.m. 
Here too, the respondent No. 1 was one ot the 
speakers and this locality also was predominantly 
inhabited by Mahisyas. In this meeting, the 

respondent No. 1 personally appealed to the audience 
consisting almost entirely of Mahisyas, to vote for 
him on the ground of his caste and to refrain lrom 
voting for the petitioner on the ground ol his caste. 
He said that he had taken the label of the Congress 

Party in order to secure the votes of the non- 

Mahisyas because he could never expect to toin 
only on the strength of the votes of the Mahisyas; 
but if on that ground Mahisyas themselves did not 
vote for him, there would be terrible disaster to 
the Mahisyas. All Mahisya votes for the Mahisya 
candidate -this was the slogan for all Mahisya 
villagers. So he said, not a single Mahisva vote 
must go to A jit Babu (meaning your petitioner), who 
was a Kavet. In order to substantiate this, a copy 
of an affidavit sworn by Shri Kartik Chandra Barui 
is annexed herewith and marked *Annexure “B” 
and a copy of a leaflet announcing this meeting is 
annexed herewith and marked *Annexure B, for 
reference at the hearing. 

10. That in a public meeting held under the 
auspices of the Hooghly District Congress Com- 
mittee at Singur Bazar within the Singur Assembly 
Constituency on the 16th day of February 1962 at 
6 p.m., the respondent No. 1 himself made an appeal 
to vote for him on the ground of his religion and to 
refrain from voting for your petitioner on the ground 
of religion, for protecting the religion- Hindu as well 
as Muslim religion. The burden of his theme was: 

Ajit Babu is a Communist and is determined to 

destroy all religions. To vote for Ajit Babu is to 

go against God and religion. 

In support of his appeal, he quoted copiously 
from a pamphlet published by Shri Benny Kay of the 
Publicity Sub-Committee of West Bengal State 
Congress Committee. A copy of that pamphlet is 
annexed herewith and marked *Anne\ure “C” to 
this petition for reference at the hearing. Extracts 
from this pamphlet were read to the audience by 
respondent No. 1. This pamphlet was widely 
distributed in that meeting and throughout the 
Constituency on various dates for the purpose of 
this election by the respondent No. 1 and by his 
workers and agents with his consent and under his 
direction. This pamphlet contained a clear appeal 
to vote and to refrain from voting on the ground 
of religion and distribution thereof bv the respondent 

♦Not published. 


l!»art ia 


No. 1 -by his workers and agents was an appeal 
vote for him on the ground of his religion a n n !° 
refrain from voting for your petitioner on ih? 
ground. at 

11. That innumerable other meetings were hdi 
and many other posters, pamphlets and leatlets wer» 
issued which showed the resort to corrupt praai ° 
by and at the instance of the respondent No. 1 L u! 
particulars whereof would be supplied later o’ n .« 
course of the trial subject to the leave to th* 
Tribunal. At the meeting at Singur Bazar parti! 
cularly referred to in paragraph 10 above us well ;.s 
in the other meetings, the respondent No. 1 as well 
as his workers and agents exercised undue infiuenee 
on and interfered with the free exercise of the 
electoral rights of the electors by calling upon them 
to destroy Communist Party from the political field 
by making use of the ballot paper and invoking 
divine displeasure on Communist and Communisnr 
by distributing and quoting from pamphlet Annexuiv 
"C" and other pamphlets. Further particulars wfil 
be given subsequently provided leave is granted bv 
the Tribunal. 


12. That the results of the election were 
materially affected by serious illegalities and or 
irregularities in the matter of and during the count- 
ing of votes. Firstly, at the counting tables what 
was done this year was mere sorting out of ballot 
papers tor the Lok Sabha those for the State 
Assembly. The scrutiny of ballot papers could not 
possibly be made at those counting tables. But the 
counting agents of your petitioner were directed by 
the Returning Officer to remain at one or other ol 
those counting tables while none was allowed to 
remain present at the table where the Ret inning 
Officer sat with a few selected assistants to scrutinize 
the ballot papers to reject ballot papers and ro count 
ballot papers for respective candidates, in the 
result neither your petitioner nor election agent nor 
any counting agent was allowed to be present at the 
time of actual counting and the provisions ol sec- 
tion 64 were grossly violated. The fact that during 
the election on this occasion, every ballot ho\ an! 
every ballot paper contained the names /symbols ol 
rival candidates was completely lost sight ol and 
the arrangement for counting was so made that 
actually the right conferred by section 64 of the 
Representation of People Act, 1951, on the petitioner 
and his counting agents to be present at the time ol 
counting was totally denied and in fact, there was 
no counting in accordance with the law and tre 
rules. 


1 3. That, secondly, during the progress of the 
counting at the counting tables where sorting cut 
of ballot papers was going on, the counting, agents 
of your petitioner were not even alwavs allowed o 
check up the first number and last number of hallo 
papers issued at a particular booth, when the baiio 
box or boxes concerned were opened. Still it appea 
to the counting agents that in respect of some pc ^ 
ind booths, the number of ballot papers lor l L 
Sabha differed from those for State Legislature bui 
when counting agents tried to check up, ine\ 
not allowed to do so. 


L That, thirdly, there was a larger n urn be 
n papers containing dear thumb-impress i 
:h the respective electors could be ! dl , id not 
your petitioner or his counting agents 


►akt 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


69 


, t a ny opportunity to closely examine them or to 
their numbers; the Returning Officer however 
l0U oht that ballot papers with those thumb- 
npressions were alright and refused to scrutinise 
,cm or to reject them, or to allow any opportunity 
, the counting agents to take their number or check 
, nl up. These ballot papers with thumb- 
tpjrssions were counted as valid votes. 

]->. That fourthly, there were a number of ballot 
ip( ; rs which seemed to be of a different design, size 
special mark than the ballot papers authorised 
j the booth, but there was no opportunity to 
amine them closely. 

16 . That lastly an inspection and examination of 
c ballot papers would disclose that there were 

Mauza and part of Electoral Roll. 

Polling Booth I 

1. Kangui, Part No. 34. 

2. Bakula, Part No. 41. 

3 . Potikuleba, Part No. 40. 

1 potikuleba, Part No. 40. 

>, Potikuleba, Part No. 40. 

Polling Booth II 

v Madhya Hjla, Part No. 

1 . Madhya Hijla, Part No. 

18. That the result of the election so far as 
ipondent {So. 1 is concerned is materially effected 
non-compliance with the provisions of the 
institution and or of the Representation of the 
opk 1 Act, 1951, and/or of the rules and/or 
Jcrs framed thereunder. A few instances of these 
n-complianccs which are numerous arc given 
low: 

(i) In Khosalpur Polling Booth, the respondent 
No. I and his wefrkers and supporters 
started a row at about 2-30 p.m. to the 
effect that votes were being manipulated bv 
the other side (meaning the petitioner). 
The respondent No. I raised a false cry 
that some of the staff helping the Presid- 
ing Officer, if not the Presiding Officer was 
helping the Communists and instigated his 
men to prevent the same, knowing that the 
allegation was totally false. In the presence 
of respondent No. 1 and under his instiga- 
tion his men threatened the officers inside 
the Polling Booth and the intending voters 
who had assembled outside. Threat of 
physical voilancc was given to the intend- 
ing voters by the supporters of the 
respondent No. 1. The visible signs of riot 
and violance on a fairly big scale and the 
Presiding Officer closed the door of the 
School from inside and adjourned the 
Polling after sending an information to the 
Police who were in a centre not verv far 
from the Polling Booth. The polling 
remained stopped for about an hour roughlv 
from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. A large number of 
intending voters who had assembled, left 
out of fear. The Presiding Officer, how- 
ever, contrary to the provisions Of Section 
57 of the Act started the Polling again 
shortly after 4 p.m. in violation of tn£ pro- 
visions of the t AVir ahd th* hiles, 


many such ballot papers which should have been 
rejected, but there was no counting according to the 
law and the rules with proper opportunity to the 
petitioner and his counting agents to be present at 
the time of counting and the counting was illegal 
and materially effected the results of the election. 

17. That votes of many electors who were dead 
before the date of polling were falsely recorded 
at the instance of the respondent No. 1 or his 
workers who made the manipulation with the hope 
that the impersonators would vote for the 
respondent No. 1. A list of 7 dead persons where 
votes have been recorded are given herein below 
and many more such particulars of such dead 
persons may be supplied later during the trial of 
the election petition. 


fii) In Gandarpukur Polling Booth, also, at about 
1 p.m., the respondent No. 1, his supporters 
and workers created a riotous situation out- 
side the Polling Booth, destroyed the camp 
of the petitioner and threatened voters 
who had lined up there that if thev 
remained there, their life would he in 
jeopardy. The Presiding Officer finding 
the riotous situation outside and failing to 
prusuade the respondent No. I and his 
men to stop the vandaliam adjourned the 
polling and closed the entrance to the 
Booth whereupon the intending voters 
left. Then after about an hour, the 
Presiding Officer in violation of the 

provisions of the Act and the rules 
announced the polling would be resumed 
that verv day and started taking \otcs 
again. Your petitioner and his men tiied 
to send information to voters and some 
voters actually turned up again and 
voted but the bulk of the voters who had 
left did not return to cast their votes 
and the results of the election were 
materially affected. It was dear that 
both in Gandarpukur and Khosalpur, the 
respondent No. 1 had planned from before 
to have votes in his favour cast in the 
morning to create riot in the afternoon so 
that voters in favour of the petitioner 
might not cast their votes. 

(iii) Menv of the electors were recorded as 
voters in more than one booth, say in one 
booth as resident and in another booth 
as carrying on business in a market within 
the jurisdiction of such booth. There 
were a large number of such persons who 
were recorded as voters in more than one 
place and thev exercised their franchise in 
more than one booth in violation of the 


Voter No., name and age. 

Polling Booth at Kangui 

28 Khantamoyee, 65. 

74 Rabindranath Bera, 41. 

156 Sahadeb Malik, 44. 

77 Narahari Barui, 64. 

29 Krishna Chandra Malik, 58. 
Polling Booth at Madhya Hijla. 

Dasarathi Adak, 

Santosh Das, 


70 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


k pAR x M 


provisions of the Act and the Rules. One 
of the two votes cast by these voters was 
illegal but had been illegally received and 
the results of the election had been 
materially affected thereby. Shri Sudhansu 
Dey Kaviraj and Shri Charu Dey Kaviraj 
arc two such persons who exercised more 
than one vote illegally. They cast their 
vote both at Molla-Simla Booth in Nasib- 
pur Anchal and Pahalampur Booth in 
Rorai-Pahalampur Anchal. In the Electoral 
Roll of mauza Pahalampur, Part 388 their 
Serial No. was 60 and 22, respectively. 
Your petitioner craves for leave to submit 
more such names in course of the progress 
of the proceeding. 


(iv) At Chhuttipur Booth, in contravention of 

the provisions of the Act and the Rules, 
the supporters ot the respondent No. 1 
took a procession with a motor vehicle 
(W.G.H. 4619), bedecked with national 

flags almost in front of the said Polling 
Booth and clearly within 100 yards of the 
Polling Booth, and actually went in front 
of the said booth. Again Motor vehicle 
(W.G.B. 3943) was taken near the Polling 
Booth (clearly within 100 yards) and one 
volunteer of the petitioner was injured by 
this vehicle at that time almost in front of 
the Booth. This was brought to the notice 
of the policemen present at the spot but 
no action was taken. 

(v) During counting a large number of ballot 

papers where votes were cast in favour of 
the petitioner were illegally and improperly 
rejected while ballot papers with similar 
condition and mark casting votes in favour 
of respondent No. 1 were illegally and 
improperly accepted. The vast bulk of 
ballot papers could not be seen or examined 
at the time of counting, although there were 
innumerable such cases. Specific 
objections were however taken in respect 
of a few ballot papers namely ballot 

papers No. 160258, 121479, ' 1 15881, 

109850, 101791, 155194, 130398, 130616, 

132298, 171787, 151531, 168487, 168059, 

168358 1 34498, 125783, 174569, 118304, 

120343, 112085, 112527, 1 12524, 10457, 

112524, 1501526, 152260, 150126, 

170856, 170731, 160258, 167676, 172939, 

149173, 121479, 171114, 170856, 101086, 

119918, 111661, 111600, 111818, 111375, 

101546, 101122, 110719, 110716, and 

many other ballot papers. 

19. That in spite of all these and other verv 
serious illegalities and irregularities, after the count- 
ing of the votes in ballot boxes was over, 

the Returning Officer said that vour petitioner was 
leading over the respondent No. \by 56 votes. 
Thereafter some postal ballot papers’ were brought 
in. The number of these postal ballot papers were 

105, out of these 22 were rejected by the Returning 

Officer and the remaining 83 were declared to be 
valid votes in favour of respondent No. 1. Your 
petitioner prayed for cancellation of manv of the 
postal ballot papers declared valid and for a 
recounting. The Returning Officer rejected the 
prayer for cancellation of these postal ballot papers 


and made only a formal recounting as to 
there was mistake in adding up the totals h 
rejected the prayer for recounting in so f ar J )U| 
meant checking up ballot papers to find out whim/ 
they were improperly accepted or improiWu 
rejected. After this so-called formal recounting r u 
Returning Officer declared that the respond 
No. 1 had got 31 votes more than these obtain?! 
by your petitioner. The acceptance of the n 
ballot papers and the rejection of the’ 2: /.V 
ballot papers were however illegal and irnpiuper fn, 
the following among other reasons: 1 1 

(i) 51 out of the 83 postal ballot papers (Wim l 

valid votes in favour of respondent Vo I 
did not comply with the instructions con- 
tained in Part I and Part II of Form Pd 
and hence these postal ballot papers v m 
improperly accepted. On the covers of a |i 
these 51 postal ballot papers, i he ful 
signature ol the voter or even any short 
signature of the voter was not there in the 
space provided on the cover marked "B” 
What happened obviously was that the voto 
jn these cases were not cast secret 1\ b\ the 
voters concerned; but instead, the ballot 
papers were made over to respondent No I 
or his men who got the vote recorded .,nd 
then took the papers to different officer^ 
lor attestation and after attestation, them- 
selves sent them to the Returning Officer 
These votes do not appear to have been 
freely cast, by the respective votcis 
Objections were made to the Ret urnmg 
Officer but he dismissed the objection. 

(ii) The remaining votes declared to be valid 

votes in favour of respondent No. 1 did rot 
also appear to be valid votes inasmuch as 
these and other ballot papers did not 
appear to have reached the Returning 
Officer in time. 

(iii) Of the rejected postal votes, most of 

the votes were in favour of the petitioner 
as far as the petitioner remembers, but thev 
were rejected improperly and illegally 

(iv) All the persons voting bv postal ballot p..pn 

did not comply with rules 24, 27, and other 
rules. All persons to whom postal ballot 
papers were sent were not eligible to vote 
bv postal ballot of postal 

ballot vote was not maintained. Hu 
respondent No. 1 exercised his influence «r 
Member of the District School Board and 
its Sub-Committcc to influence teacher 
voters. 

20. That in these circumstances, the results ol 
the election so far as the respondent No. I » s c (,n ‘ 
cerned was materially affected on the ground o« 
reception of void votes, improper and illegal ecup ■ 
ance of invalid votes, improper and illegal refection 
of valid votes and contravention of the provision 
of the Act and the Rules. Your petitioner subnu ■ 
that but for the votes obtained by respondent No 
bv corrupt practices* the petitioner would na 
obtained a huge majority of valid votes and in a 
spite of all that your petitioner did in fact iet 
a majority of the valid votes. 


Pxr-^IAI 


TI1E CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


71 


2 |. That a counting of the ballot papers includ- 
ing the postal ballot papers may be made and on 
such examination it would be abundantly clear that 
the respondent No. 1 was illegally and improperly 
declared elected and that the election of respondent 
No. 1 ' s vo ^ on l^csc grounds as well as on the 
grounds of corrupt practices. 

22 . That your petitioner is annexing hereto the 
i cic van t document showing that a deposit of 
gv 2,000 (two thousand) only has been duly made 
m* favour of the Election Commission as security 
foi costs of this petition as contemplated under see- 
lion 117 of the Representation of the People Act, 
|9 r d. An affidavit bv Shri Ashutosh Pal is annexed 
herewith and marked * Annexure “D" for reference 
at the hearing. An affidavit bv vour petitioner is 
annexed herewith and marked Annexure “E" for 
reference at the hearing. 

23. That your petitioner therefore humbly piavs 
for an order — 

(a) for appointment of an Election Tribunal for 
hearing this petition, 

ib) lor a declaration that the election of the 
returned candidate, the respondent No. 1, 
is void, 

(c) for a declaration that the election of the 

respondent No. 1 is void and that the 
petitioner has been duly elected, 

(d) such other or further order or orders as to 

this Tribunal may seem fit and proper. 

And vour petitioner, as in duty bound, shall ever 

prav. 

SCHEDULE OF ANNEXURES 
Anncxure “A’* 

(1) An affidavit sworn bv Shri Bhim Chandra 
Das. 


Annexure “Al" 

f2) Copy of a notice announcing meeting at 
Borai South School Compound. 

Anncxure “B" 

(1) An Affidavit sworn bv Shri Kart ik C handra 
Barit i. 

Annexutc “Bl" 

(1) < opy of a notice announcing meeting at 
Pcwnnbhan Purbapata Shibtola. 

Anncxure “P“ 

( r >) An affidavit sworn by Shri Asnuiosh Pal. 
Annexure “C" 

(6) Copy of a pamphlet referred to in para- 
graphs 10 and 11. 

Annexure “E" 

(7) An affidavit bv the petitioner. 

Verification 

I. Ajit Kumar Basu, the petitioner, do hereby 
declare that the statements contained in para- 
graphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 12, 13, 14, 15, 18(i), 18(ii), 
I8(v), 10, 22, including the Annexurcs A, Al, B. 
Bl, C, D and E are true to mv knowledge and 
those in paragraphs 7, 8, 0, 10, 11, 17, 18(iii), 18(iv) 
are true on my information which I verily believe 
to be true and those in paragraphs 5, 16, 20, 21, 23 
are mv submissions in witness whereof I sign this 
verification at Calcutta on this, the 7th dav of April 
1962. 

AJIT KUMAR BASU. 

The 7th April 1962. 


Not’ published. 


Bv order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


I P*£T 1A 



THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNT- 
ANTS OF INDIA 

Post Box No. 268, Mathura Road, New Delhi- 1. 

NOTIFICATIONS 

New Delhi- 1, the 1st February 1962. 

No. 4~CA( I )/ 1 5/61-62. In pursuance of regula- 
tion 12 of the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 
1949, it is hereby notified that in exercise of the 
powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (1) of 
section 20 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949, 
the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India has removed from the Register of Members, 
with effect from the 22nd day of November 1961, on 
account of death the name of Shri Probodh Kumar 
Chatterjee, 21/6 Aswini Dutta Road, Calcutta-29, 
(Membership No. 1526). 

B. R. MALHOTRA, Acting Secy. 

OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF SALES 
* TAX 

Delhi, the 19th January 1962 

NOTIFICATION 

No. XV-26/CST-62/773 — In pursuance of the 
provision of sub-rule (a) of rule 4 of the Central 
Sales Tax (Delhi) Rules, 1957, it is notified for 
general information that the following forms of 
declarations are reported to have been misplaced and 
lost from the custody of the dealer, named below, 
to whom they were issued and are invalid for the 
purpose of sub-section (4) of section 8 of the Central 
Sales Tax Act, 1956. 

Serial No. nt’ Inst Nnnto ami address of the Keinnrkn. 

No. dee In ration dealer to whom issued, 
fort ns, 

12 3 4 

i. I* 0535!*) M/s. Shankar Bro thorn, 
to r» -A , I'iHpinnatlo Hoad, 

I* IKi.UHM) Delhi. 

V. R. BAP AT, Comm ism one*. 

GENERAL ADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT 

NOTIFICATION 

Sachivalaya, Ahmedabad, the 22nd March 1962 
(Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898.) 

No. BAP-2659/366-A2. — Whereas it appears to 
the Government of Gujarat that the book, named 
“Chandralila'\, translated into Gujarati from English 
by Rev. Dr. H. R. Scott, printed and published for 
the Gujarat Tract and Book Society by Rev. II. P. 
Cromic, at the Darshana Printery, Nagori Shala, 
Ratanpolc, Ahmedabad 1, contains matter which 
promotes feelings of hatred between different classes 
of citizens of India and that its publication is punish- 
able under section 153-A of the Indian Penal Code. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by section 99A of the Code of Criminal 
Procedure, 1898 (V of 1898), the Government of 
Gujarat hereby declares every copy of the aforesaid 
book to be forfeited to Government. 

By order and in the name of the 
Governor of Gujarat, 
ft. PARTHASARATHY, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

Department of Revenue 

New Delhi, the 26th February 1962. 

NO J IF1CATIONS 

Income-tax Establishment, 

No. 18. The undermentioned officers li.ivc been 
confirmed as Income-tax Officers, Class I, with effect 
from the dates noted against their names: 

Serial Name) OummiKhionn V !>«!<■ ,,| 

No. e.hargem winch cnnti,, na . 

working. tion. 


1 

Shri 

<_«. 

B 

Set h 

Wi 

'Kt. 

Bengal 

15-3 

1 !).)» 

14 

Shri 

A. 

B 

Chakrahorty 

West. 

Bengal 

5-H 

1 !*59 

15 

Shri 

S. 

K. 

Itov Choudliury 

West 

Bengal 

5 iS- 

1 !*5U 


Sim 

V. 

It 

ltiromal.li 

w. 

'.st 

Bengal 

5-K 

1 !)5!» 

2<> 

Shri 

1 V . 

i. 

Chudha 

Wi 

•si 

Bengal 

«) S 

1 11511 

2K 

Shri 

1. 

S. 

Xigam 

Wi 

•st 

Bengal 

5 8 

1 U.V.I 

33 

Shri 

i\ 

s. 

< h>j»alakriMtmm 

Wi 

vst 

Bengal 

5 - S 

1 1*51) 

34 

Shri 

1). 

K 

. Sarkar 

Wi 

•st 

Bengal 

5-N 

1 Mali 

35 

Shi i 

It. 

X 

. Slumua 

vv. 

va 

Bongo 1 

5-,s 

1 1*511 

3t> 

Sim 

s. 

Iv 

Son 

Wi 

•5 

Bengal 

5 - <S 

1 !*51l 

40 

Shri 

D. 

N 

. Sahoy 

Wi 

vsl 

Bengal 

5-S- 

1 !•,>•.* 

41 

Shri 

M. 

K 

. Mitra 

Wi 

•st 

Bengal 

5-h- 

11151* 

44 

Shri 

B. 

c. 

J>uM 

W< 

>st. 

Bengal 

5-H 

1 1*51* 


2. Items 127-132 of this Ministry’s nniilKMtimi 
No. 306 Income-tax Establishments, dated the 2fih 
December 1959, are lincby cancelled. 

S. P. PANDL, Pv 


No. 49. The undermentioned officers have horn 
continued as Income-tax Officers, Class 1, \Mth elicit 
fiom the dates noted against their names: 


Sorial Name. 

No. 

1 2 

< !inmnis.sioiui 

ohnrge m \vl«i< *» 

working. 

3 

| Dili’ 

i mdirniA 

1 toll 

1 

1 Shri Mahendra Singh 

West Bengal 

1 1-H*M* 

3 Shri S. Mujumdor 

Wertt Bengal 

12-I.MM*!) 

17 Shri F. J. Bahadur 

. . West Bengal 

s.iMIHit* 

30 Shri Komal Prasad 

West Bengal 

8-0-1^° 


S. P. PANDE, Dy. Secy 



No. 18 of 1962 


legistered No. C207 



(ferttP 




VAISAKHA 13 ] 

THURSDAY, MAY 3, 1962 

[ SAKA 1884 


CONTENTS: 

Page. 

State Statietioel Bureau — Cost of living indexes, 

Calcutta, and wholesale prioe index 

for the week ending the 21st April 

1962 .. .. .. 116-116 

Calcutta Improvement Trust — Kotioes .. 117 




SUPPLEMENT— Official Paper* 

, SIUI No . 305 STATE STATISTICAL BUREAU, WEST BENGAL 

TABLE 1 

Cost ot living indexei, Calcutta and wdolacala prlco Index (weak ending 21 it April 1962) 


All-India wholesale 

Cost of living index — Base : November, 1960. prioe index*. 


Period 

/ — 


Expenditure level (in Its.) 


— \ 

Baee, 

1962-63. 

Converted 

with 


1—100 


101—200 


201 — 

-360 ^ 

November 







.... _ . 


I960 as 


" All 

Food. 

/ AH 

Food. 

All 

Food. 


t a*e. 


items. 


items. 


items. 




(i) 

(3) 

(3) 

(•1) 

(6) 

(«) 

H) 

(8) 

(9) 

1954 January 

93*9 

88*8 

94*1 

88*4 

94*7 

88*6 

.• 


Apnl 

96*2 

90*4 

95*6 

90*1 

95*3 

90*1 

•• 


July 

94*0 

89*4 

94*4 

89*6 

94*7 

89*6 

•• 

•* 

October 

96*3 

91*6 

95*3 

91*4 

95*6 

91*3 

- 

•- 


January 


90*7 

84*7 

91*1 

84*4 

91*7 

84*6 

•• 

• • 

Apnl 


89*9 

83*0 

90*6 

83*7 

91*2 

84*0 

88 9 

82*3 

July 


91*1 

86*6 

91*6 

86*8 

92*0 

86*8 

92*9 

86*0 

October 


93*7 

89 *T 

93*9 

89*4 

94*0 

88*0 

90*6 

83*0 


January 


90*0 

84*8 

61*0 

84*0 

#1-2 

88*7 

96*3 

88*2 

April 


96*2 

91*6 

94*8 

90*4 

94*6 

89.0 

100*0 

92*6 

July 


99*6 

98*0 

98*7 

96*3 

87*8 

94*7 

108*6 

95*8 

October 

/ % 

102*4 

101*3 

100*7 

98*9 

M>< 

90*9 

106*7 

98*8 


•Kevised eerie* (Baee : 1962 .68) end the corresponding converted series. 


116 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


Period. 


(1) 


Oo«% of living index— -Bose i November, 1000. 


-A. 




All-India wholt** u , 
price index*. 



Expenditure level (in Re.) 

1—100 101 — 200 

_ ^ „ * 


t 

All 

items. 


Food. 

All 

items. 

Food. 

(2) 


<8) 

(4) 

(«) 




P (I mi 

1802-fit. 

Converted 

Ylfi f V, 

201— -860 


wiiii 

November 

1 Orit 

' All 
items. 

Food. 


loot) ft*) 
base. 

(6) 

(7) 

(8) 

w 


1957 January 


98 *4 

April 

.. 

100*5 

July 

— 

106*0 

October 

. . 

107-6 


1968 January 

. . 

106-0 

April 


joe-o 

July 

»• 

100 *4 

October 

• 

113*8 


I960 January 

• • 

103*5 

April 

e a 

105 *8 

July 

a s 

110-4 

October 

• a 

114-6 


1960 January 

. . 

no -4 

April 

.. 

110-5 

July 

.. 

114 -4 

October 

. . 

114 4 


1961 January 


109 -7 

February 


no -6 

March 


110-9 

April 


112*2 

May 


112-1 

June 


118-7 

July 


116-2 

August 


117-9 

September 


118-0 

October 


119*9 

November 


120-3 

December 


117*0 


1962 January 

• • 

114-4 

February 

. • 

114-3 


Week ending 


24*3*62 

116*8 

31-3.62 

115*6 

7*4-62 

118*0 

14-4*62 • • 

118*6 

21-4-62 

119*9 


94-6 97*0 91-9 

98 -0 98*9 95 *5 

105*8 104*1 103-0 

107*0 105*7 104-0 

101 -8 103-1 98-1 

103 -1 104 -4 100 *2 

107 -6 107 -9 104 -9 

114*3 111-2 113-3 

97-2 102-9 96-5 

100*9 105*1 99-4 

108 -3 109 -2 106 -1 

116-0 113-0 113-4 

108 -3 108 -6 106 *3 

108*0 108-9 106-2 

113-9 112*8 111-6 

113- 5 113-2 111-8 

106-0 108*7 103-2 

106-1 109-6 104-3 

106- 1 109-9 104-6 

108-2 111*4 107-2 

107- 8 111*4 107-0 

110-1 112-7 109-1 

114- 1 115-1 113*2 

116*8 116- 6 115-7 

116*4 116*6 115*2 

119*7 118*2 119*2 

120*4 118-4 118-4 

114*5 115*3 112*6 

110*1 112*8 108*0 

109*7 112*8 107*7 


112*2 114*3 110*4 
112*0 114*1 110*2 
115*9 116*2 114*0 
116*9 117*1 115*4 
119*1 117*9 117*0 


96 -2 

90-3 

107 -3 

99 -4 

97 -0 

98*6 

106 -6 

98 >6 

102*7 

100*7 

111*9 

103 ti 

104-0 

102*3 

108-9 

100-8 


101 -8 

95 -4 

100 -o 

98 -2 

103 -2 

9t -9 

107 -4 

99 -5 

106 *7 

102 -6 

114-7 

106 -2 

109*8 

108 -6 

116-2 

107 8 


102 -7 

91*0 

112 -3 

104 -0 

104 -6 

98 -2 

111 -9 

103 -8 

108 -1 

104 -0 

116-8 

108-2 

111 -6 

111 -0 

119-3 

110-5 


107-5 

103 -2 

118-8 

110-il 

107 -9 

103 -3 

120-6 

111 •« 

111*6 

109 -0 

124-7 

115-0 

112-2 

110-4 

126 -3 

117-0 


108 -4 

102 -3 

126-6 

116-3 

109 -0 

108 3 

120-7 

117-3 

109 -5 

108 9 

127-6 

118-1 

111-0 

106-6 

126-8 

116-5 

111*0 

106*5 

125-3 

1160 

112-1 

108-4 

125-9 

116-0 

114*2 

112-2 

128*7 

119-2 

116-5 

114-5 

127*4 

118-0 

115-4 

113-8 

124*6 

115-4 

116-9 

116-7 

124*4 

116-2 

116-9 

116-6 

124 -3 

115 *1 

114*1 

111*1 

122*9 

113-8 


112*1 

107-0 

123*3* 4 

114-2 

112*1 

106-6 

124-3 

115-1 


113-4 

109*2 

122-6 

113-5 

113*3 

109*1 

. . 

•* 

115-1 

112*0 

. . 


116*0 

114*4 

. . 

•• 

116*6 

115*4 

. . 

.. 


* Revised series (Beset 1952-53) end the corresponding converted series. 
♦♦Revised. 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


117 


CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 

ue HOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR THE IMPROVE- 
rHb MENT OF CALCUTTA 

under section 43 of the Calcutta Improvement 
1,0 Act, 1911 (Bengal Act V of 1911) 

SCHEME No. LXXXV (SUBHAS SAROBAR) 

i It is notified under section 43 of the Calcutta 
mnrovement Act that a General Improvement 
Mieme 1° known as Scheme No. LXXXV 
*Subhas Sarobar) for the area of Scheme 1VM 
-Supplementary) in Constituency No. 36 of the 
Calcutta Corporation, to provide for a lake, parks 
‘ j gardens, open space and playgrounds and pro- 
ision therein of recreation building and structures 
other necessary aids to field and aquatic sports 
Deluding a swimming area and a swimming pool, 
j boat-house, construction of roads, pathways and 
nek track and other developments, has been 
framed by the Board of Trustees for the Improve- 
ment of Calcutta. 

2. The boundary of the area comprised within 
and affected by the Scheme shown within red 
verge on the plan is as follows:— 

On the North: Starting from the north-eastern 
corner of 75 Narkeldanga Main Road running 
eastwards along the southern edge of Narkel- 
danga Main Road, western, southern and eastern 
boundaries of premises No. 81 Narkeldanga 
Main Road, again eastward along the 
southern edge of Narkeldanga Main Road, 
to its eastern end where it meets the western 
boundary of Calcutta Corporation pumping 
station on New Cut Canal surplus land. 

On the East: From this point running south- 
ward along the western boundaries of canal 
surplus land to a point where it meets the 
western edge of Radhamadhab Dutta Garden 
Lane. From this point running southward 
along the western edge of Radhamadhab Dutta 
Garden Lane to the north-eastern corner of 
No. 58, Suren Sarkar Road. Then westward 
and southward along the northern and western 
boundaries of the said premises to its south- 
western corner. 

On the South: From this point running west- 
ward along the northern edge of Suren Sarkar 
Hoad, the eastern and northern boundaries of 
Suren Sarkar Road, northern and western 
boundaries of 45A Suren Sarkar Road and again 
along the northern edge of Suren Sarkar Road 
to a point situated at a distance of 56 ft. F*om 
the north-western corner of 21/1 Surah 3rd 
Lane and then running south-westward across 
Suren Sarkar Road to the north-western corner 
of 21/1 Surah 3rd Lane then along the western 
and southern boundaries of the said premises 
to its south-eastern corner, then southwards 
along the western edge of Surah 3rd Lane to a 
distance of 320 ft. then westward to a point 
the eastern boundary of plot 56 in Scheme 
1V M, situated at a distance of 20 ft. to the 


south from its north-eastern corner, then north- 
ward along its eastern boundary to its north- 
eastern corner, then westward along the 
northern boundary of plot 56, eastern and 
northern boundaries of plot Nos. 53, 48 and 47, 
Scheme 1VM respectively, and the northern 
boundary of plot No. 45, Scheme IVM, then 
across 100 ft. C.I.T. Road to a point on the 
eastern boundary of 38 Badan Roy Lane, at 
a distance of 80 ft. to the south from its north- 
eastern corner, then to its north-eastern corner 
and then westward along its northern boundary 
to the point where it meets the eastern edge 
ol Badan Roy Lane. 

On the West: From this point running north- 
ward along the eastern edge of Badan Roy 
Lane to its northern end where it meets the 
southern edge of Suren Sarkar Road, then 
eastward along the southern edge of Suren 
Sarkar Road to a distance of 244 It. then across 
Suren Sarkar Road northward along the 
eastern, northern and again eastern edge of the 
Calcutta Corporation passage to its northern 
end, and then across it and along the eastern 
boundaries of Premises No. 34G, 34F and ME, 
Suren Sarkar Road and 75 Narkeldanga Main 
Road to the starting point. 

3. Particulars and other information relating to 
the Scheme and a plan of the area comprised in the 
scheme may be inspected at the office of the Trust 
at 10 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, between 11 a.m. 
and 3 p.m. on weekdays and between 11 a.m. and 
12 noon on Saturdays. 

All lands required for execution of the scheme 
have already bee// acquired in connection with 
Calcutta Improvement Trust’s Scheme No. IVM 
(Supplementary). 

Copies of the above document will be delivered 
on application and on payment of following fees: — 

Particulars of the scheme and other informa- 
tion relating thereto — Rs. 0.25 nP. 

Plan of the scheme area — Re. 1.00 nP. 

4. Objections to the scheme will be received up 
to 21st May 1962. 

K. SEN, 
Chairman. 

Calcutta. 

The 9th April 1962. 

CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 

NOTICE 

NOTICE is hereby given under section 47(3) of the 
Calcutta Improvement Act, 1911, that the Board of 
Trustees for the Improvement of Calcutta have 
applied to the State Government for sanction to the 
Improvement Scheme No. LXXX1V (Park at 138 
Cornwallis Street) which was first published in the 
“Calcutta Gazette” and in local newspapers on the 
12th October 1961. 

10 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1 
The 5th April 1962. 

K. SEN, Chairman. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal 
at the West Bengal Government Press, Alipore. 




Registered No. C207 






'AlaAhJiA 


tht 


< M . 4 "Calcutta Qazcti 

t. Manuscripts should ho prooarlv aditarf . M w ■/• "■ '***•» m in 

2 . Manuscript, should .Iw,„TL 1 C#mp,,to ,n '<**“• 

Mow tfio signature. w bi *yP®*tttton on ono iMo 0 ff tho p a gr 

,m “ •» Sb- th * " M * lt>Uf «f “Coieutta e " > '*" U0Ty ,ll#uW *• fWKwrtttsi 

I i. m. on Saturday. * ' Hw,in ** ® tro »‘. Calcutta, upto 3-30n„, Gaz,tt '’ , . ,ha " ho rocolv.d k „ 

4 . All costs shall bo paid In advance and dan „ ' ** FrH, * , * ll<l •* Hoad ORIos ai^a u !?!* 11 *•*•< 

—— — 

: ~~ “ “wrttsomont *... , . 

, _ “ * "-o^rvanc .. 

«fp£N8INQ BOARD. WEST BENGAL ~ 

.. 


^ * WEST BENGAL 

lamination f qr Electrical 8up.nf| lor .. 4 

Calcutta in July ° f Com »* itBn cy halif j n 


* “laittn, thontli Dm'inlmr J<mi. 

ol tho Sylhll>l<H 

1 1 1 j j v Jtnu JNnh.aml nam«*M l)Wt, w . 

AaiilO Of oil lull 


bull 
is o 


Nitiiid ol caiHlidttlit. 


1 O'uitrj Sivnkar J»al 

*' ,,r,,f «'<i , M'haiidra JVrtHkfir 

1 >H,| Mukherjt'o 
7 Niurcti lioHt* 

“ Mazumdor 

1: ' A ^«tn Kumar Nooj?J 
Js ^iutrha Jtoy 

21 ka "«‘l«‘iHln Hioudhury 
Airanj;,n Clioiidliury 
,taw *'a Kumar Nandi 

27 Ja,i,,(ln ‘ Mith niBwaa 

2S St ' nl<,sl, ttmy Clwkraliorty 
,WI XrirH ‘ I,,lra Nath ]{ OS0 
1>m,aVa Klln *r Majumdor . . 
” l m ' !f,ftKiln <’»»andra Son 

‘ <s » , saiikar ltan*fc 
*' ! Chandra J>uttn. 

' ^ Kurnar oh™, 

'' SfiK, ‘ Md. Ayonb 
^ ,te »*u Ml S aw 


l>4‘t*Iaro(l to Imvo ■|imi!f} (M j 
* n part or parts . 

•• 1 and U. 

i and ij. 

I and 11 . 

i, 2 and 11 . 

I, 2 and 11 . 

1 . 2 and 1 1 . 

1 and 31. 

T and li. 

1, 2 and n. 

1. 2 and 1 1 . 

!. 2 and 11 . 

I. 2 and ii. 

1 and li. 

1 and li. 

1 and 1 1 . 

I. 2 and ll. 

J. 2 and ll. 

1, 2 and 11. 

1 and 2. 

I and 1 1 . 


(50 

(51 

or, 

(5.s 


02 

01 

100 

101 

in:, 

10(5 

no 

in 

112 

113 

114 

no 


Jo. Nainool ntndidato. 

r * J Nfi 0 | ianioy 

l5iroi.li Chandra S,iny H j 
Ni'taj riiandni 1‘afcra 
A,,il r,uln,|r » Hliattarhorjoo 
Writy unjoy llaiiorjir 
Ahwhi j K lunar hat) 

° KriHh,,tt h "l“ /Wmttarhorjtv 
2 •Kali Pada f) Ug 

* * Sa, 1 <n > «da ChatttTjsM* 

“IdiahoHli Chandra Ha»dii 

‘ * S,,k,,, 1 M " ( ^n<lra| { , m (hud 1 ar JI ,. 

*«lmint,h,i Natl, (’Jmltorjof. . 

KariLt Afnndul 

;; r « ( iip Kumar Son f 
I In hind ra Naf.|, 1 * * 

Az<‘ct Afoullck 

, * iUW,,M r,u| ra« Adhlkary 

s,, ntinioy MajumdttT 

Jadii hal l» { *,jj 
S '“v* N "r».vai. Mull, 

H'ltyji C| mruM ]if J1I1(|j 

1'rakrtHh Narayan |>o 
i!iswa Han jan Mitra 
Das Nath 
Ham Prasad I toy 


I’ftMHod ill rllWH Or fluHHfff. 

• • 1 and n. 

• • 1 • 2 and n. 

• • 1,2 and n. 

• • 1,2 and |j. 

*• 2, 3, 4 and 1 j, 

•• 1 and 11. 

•• 1 and ij. 

• • 2 , 3 and 4. 

•• "(A) only. 

■ • 3 only, 

• • 3 and 1. 

• • I only. 

• • 4 only. 

1 and (5(A) 

* 1 and 7(A). 

* H 0 (A) and 7 (A) 

■ J and IJ. 

* I. 2 and 1 1. 

1 and n. 

H 2, :}. -j and | j. 

*. 2 and 11 
1 and li. 

1 and 11. 

1 . 2, 3 and 4. 
i. 2 and ll. 



Roll 

No. 

Name of earn! Id ah*. 


Passed in class or classes 

lift 

Mano lianjan Sen 


1 , 2, 3 and 1 1 . 

122 

Sukumar De 


1 and 11. 

125 

llarneahwar Singh 


1 and 11. 

12G 

J). H. Stirling . . 


i, 2, :i and 4. 

127 

Ramoiwar Chakraborly 


1 and 11. 

i:m 

Sukhendu llikash ltoy . . 


1 and 11. 

132 

Animesh jMitta Rov 


1, 6(A) and 11. 

m 

Sunil lianjan Hose 


1, 2, 3, 4 and 1 1 . 

i 30 

liliahataran Manna 


1 and 1 1 . 

i:i7 

Provash Kumar 1 Iliad ra 


1 , 2, 3, 4 a nd 1 1 . 

Lift 

•Salles Chandra Das 


4 and 1 1 . 

1 10 

•Sudhii Kumar Cha krahort v 


3 and 7 (A . Ii.). 

i i:i 

•Suhir Kumar Mitra . 


2 and 3. 

i it 

•Amulva Charan Sardar 


4 only. 

145 

•Aniarendra Kumar Maudal 


1 only. 

Mil 

•A inn lend ii Siriar . . 


3 and 1. 

117 

• Santi Jtanjan Mukherjee . . 


3 and 4. 

Its 

•Sarnareiidra Nath Datta . . 


3 and 4. 

Mft 

•Susil Das 


3 and 4 . 

152 

•Santi Ham llisvas 


4 and 7(10. 

ir>3 

•Paslm Pati Djis 


3 and 4. 

1 55 

•Nani Copal J)as 


7(A) only. 

1 56 

•Del) Kumar Ghoac 


5 and 7(h). 

i:.h 

•Kart-ic Chandra Sarker 


4 only. 

160 

•Chittaranjan Mukherjee . . 


3, 4 and 5. 

DU 

•Kulyan Kumar Mu /.Hinder 


3 and 4. 

1 05 

•Samhlni Nath i’atra 


5 only. 

107 

•Ahanl Itliar 


6(A) and 7(D). 

1 00 

•Kashi Nath Ha zra 


5 and 7(D). 

170 

•Copal (iohindft Dutta 


5 only. 

171 

• Sankar Nath Das 


4 only. 

I7:t 

•Ahindra Kumar Paul . . 


4 and 0. 

1 75 

•Kashi Nath Karak 


10 only. 

177 

•Nemai Chandra Mukherji . . 


7(D) onlv. 

i 7S 

•Hemantn Kumar Hoy 


3 and 4. 

170 

♦Some Nath Dutta 


3 and 4. 

1 si 

Kudhir Kumar basu . . 


1 , 2 and 1 1. 

1 Sfi 

Chit ta (iopal Nandy 


1, 2 ftiid 1 1 . 

JH6 

lUdyut Kumar Saha 


1, 2 and 11. 

ls7 

Dehahrata Dobc. . 


1 and 11. 

1SS 

•Nlrtnal Kumar Diswns 


. 11 only. 

1 so 

•Privatohli Paul . • 


3 and 4. 

102 

lUmhan Chandra Paul 


1,2. 3 and 11. 

101 

•Jhar Lai Doy . - 


OlA) only. 

1 05 

ltahindra Dal Sen 


1, 2, 3, 4, 6(A) and 

ion 

i Kalika Prasad Roy 


. 1,2 and It. 

lfti 

• Kamal Hnnjnn Mukherjee . . 


. 1.2 ami 11. 

10S Sunil Chandra (Shush Dastidar 


. 1, 2 and 11. 

200 Rhola Nath Danerjee 


1 and 11. 


♦ Candidates hold Supervisors* Certificate of Competency. 

N. ]>AS GTJPTA, 

Soey., Licensing hoard. West, Rengal. 


LICENSING BOARD, WEST BENGAL 
Examination tor Eloetrical SuparvUor*^ CartifleaU^ of Competency h#w % 

Calcutta, the 11th December 1901. 

The follow ini' candidates are declared as passed in the paths ni n„ s x „ . 
for Supervisors bIiomii against tlieir respective lioll Nos. and uaiuet- l>< | llSx l 1 


Roll 

No. 

Name of candidate. 

Declared to l,a\. 

pail or p.iif 

1 

Durga Dag Panda 

. . 1 and 11. 

3 

Pruphtilla Kumar Ghosh . . 

. . 1 and 11. 

5 

Dhupendra Nath Chakravartty 

1 and 1 1 

7 

Chiiita Rum lloy 

1 and 1 1 

8 

P. K. Yiswu na than 

. . 1 and 1 i. 

14 

Narayan Chandra Mukherji e 

. . 1 and 11. 

15 

Kartiek Chandra Mukherjee 

1 and J 1. 

16 

Pabitra Kumar Das Gupta 

1 , 2, .1 and 1 1. 

17 

Ajit Kumar Modok 

1 and 1 1. 

10 

Sudldi Kumar Sarkar 

. . 1 and 11, 

21 

Parimal Sarkar . . 

. . 1 and 11. 

22 

Ardhondii Mohan Dutta 

. . 1 , 2, 3, 4 and 1 1. 

23 

Pritlsh Dutta 

1 and 11. 

24 

Shasty Das Dauorjee 

. . 1 and 11. 

25 

Mftdliu Sudan Clanguly 

.. 1,2. 3. 4 and 11 

27 

Didyut Daran Chatterjee . . 

. . 1.2 and 11. 

28 

ltahindra Nath Chakraborty 

. . 1, 2. 3 and 1. 

2ft 

Damapada Das Gupta . . 

. . 1 and 11 

31 

Asbim Kumar Dhattaoharjne 

. . 1.2, 3, l and 11 

32 

•Sudhir Kumar Das 

. . 2 and 3. 

33 

•Chittaranjan l)as 

.. 3 and 1. 

34 

• Paramananda Danerjee . . 

2 only. 

37 

Shyama Pada Roy 

. . 1 and 11. 

38 

ParitoBh Chatterjee 

. . X and 2. 

40 

Antal Kumar Gulia Patra . . 

1 and 2. 

42 

Rabi Loehan Danerjee 


44 

Haul pada Chakra bnrtv 

'■■"W 

40 

Dilip Kumar Mukherjee 

1,2 and 11. 

17 

Trihbanga Murari Roy 

. .. . 1 and 1 1 

4S 

Dei) Kumar Danerjee 

. . 1 and 11. 

52 

Suhodh Kumar Laik 

1 and 11. 

53 

Nimai (’handra Sarkar 

, . 1 and 1 1 

51 

Ambnr Nath Paul 

. . 1 and 11. 

55 

DangBhi Dhar Ghosh 

1 ami 11. 

56 

Monoranjan Roy 

. . 1 and 1 1 - 

62 

Rahindra Nath Ganguly 

. . l and 11. 

63 

Sitansu May.umdnr 

. . l, 2, •’,( \) and 1 1 

(H 

Situ Nath Dauerjee 

. . 1,2 and 11. 

1,2 and 1 1 . 

65 

Sunit. Das 


60 

Shyama Pada Paul 

J, 2, 3. 4, 6(A) « 

67 

Drajendra Nath Ghosh . . 

1,2 and 1 1 

68 

Itama Kunta DoksI 

. . 1 and 11. 

75 

•Ajit Kumar Mukherjee 

5 and 1 1 • 

SO 

•Rameswar Dhagat 

. . 4 only. 

82 

♦Durga Sonkar Ghosal 

4 and s. 

S7 

•Shyamal Sarkar 

. . 5 a nd 7(B). 

SO 

i • Kalla sh Chandra Majee . . 

5 only. 

04 

•Adhir Kumar Daksy 

. . 5 onl> • 

0(1 

I *Asim Kumar Chanda 

3 oid> . 


•Candidates bold Supenisors* Certificate of ( oinpetem \ 

N. DAS GUPTA. ^ 

Secy., Licensing hoard, West b™"*' 


Til K CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


183 


mut HI 


LICENSING BOARD, WEST BENGAL 


Dm cln.^4 or 
|,rlnW 


Roll 

No 


Name of candidate. 


I I Uni pond rii Natli Adak . . 

; ; .Jogendi'H < ’handra Moitdul 

I (> i^wuii at) i Jlnksl . • 

( • Mudbusudmi Ambali 
G +|iaitlviin Chandra Dan 
s Sutnarendrn Natli Daw 
(io|Mi! Chandra Dan 
10 L-ikrnj Chowdlmry 
U Aloki* l'rasud Kouth 
1 U SusantaKumar (Jon 

I I Hum Prasad Singli 

jr, »Sa ii^li Chandra Maity 
j 7 Nirnkaf Dikhit . . 

10 Siidhir Kumar Dey 
U0 Tarak Chandra l>»s 
^7 Dilip Kumar Dub 
“ s *Uera8pati Saw . . 

:io •Sut.jn Naruynu Nuba 

;il Mihir Kumar Cliowdlmry . . 

:e> *Ualosu ar Panda y 
:W •siicidt Chowdhury 
\r, • I’.hwangth Sing) in 
;7 •hiswanuth Mukhorjee 
.N •Sachin Kumar Sarkar 
10 •Ihulhiawar Sarkar 
5u Hafhi Ali 

41 •SvMidcsh Kanjan Das 

42 Sk. Saha Jan 

41 •SaukarNatli Ualdor 
K> Suhal Chandra Itoy 
.'.1 Sakti Pad a Mukhorjee 
5- Nishi Kanta Sarker 
•‘»'l Mohan Chandra Du 
•»l *M:moranjan Kugchi 
’•"* Paresh Chandra Sbovne 
*’ 7 Tnshar Kaiiti Paul 
•lUmcfth Chandra Sarkar 
*‘d • Ainarcndra Nath Do 
<; ~ Nantyan Das . . 

I,:$ •Pcvidns Paul 

•I'hanindra Nath Dan 
,;7 Mold Tail Day . . 

Kahlndra Nath Olmtak 
,l!) *"ankar Kumar Ghosh 
,(l Dhirendra Null Itoy Chowdhury 
' 1 l 'i rend ru Chandra Tlkadar 
T “ Sndidr Chandra Sarkar 
7f; i’-isMtttiftth Das 
M s »i>)iankar Ilhattaclicrjoo . . 
Aiiiidi Nath Muklierjee 


Roll 

No. 


Name of randldate. 


PllBBOd 111 clllhS Ol clUMHOH. 


mbor UK) 1 . 

88 

*Aahitn Kumar Mollra 

. . lv only. 


80 

Uouri Shankar Verma 

. . i(l>) onlv. 

od to liftvo Qualified 

rationed against each 

90 

Krishna Chandra Paul 

. . 1(b) only. 


92 

Puja Mishra 

. . i(b) only. 

*asHod in < lasNorelasses. 

04 

A bid Hasan 

. . i(.l*) and ii. 

ii only . 

95 

♦Hutu Sj riirli 

. i(b) ii and \iii(a 

i(n) and 1(b). 

100 

Sitaugsu Kumar Dey 

. . lv only. 

i(a) and 1(b). 

101 

Ajlt Kumar Saha 

ivonl>. 


102 

•Taruk Natli Hu uer joe 

. . Ka) onlv. 

1(b) only. 

ii only. 

io:t 

lliini Krishna Huy . . 

Kb) only. 

1(a) only. 

104 

A nml Kumar Maity 

. . i(b) only 

i(a) and i(b). 

105 

•Huuiegh Chandra Boy 

.. !(»») only . 

lv and vt(»») 

100 

Nitya Copal Dul ta 

Ka)andi(b). 

i(a) and i(b). 

108 

Aminta Kunvir Haider 

. . lv only. 

lv only. 

109 

lieoki Show 

. . iv only. 

Kb) only. 

110 

Tapan Deb Dan 

.. i(b) only . 

Kb) only. 

112 

Prafulla Kumar Ganguly . . 

. . lv only. 

Kb) only. 

114 

•Haretidra Kumar llnkuhit 

. . 1(b) only. 

iv only. 

115 

Arubiuda Ghosh 

.. Ka). 1(b) and ii. 

i(b) only. 

117 

Sk. Shajan All . . 

. . 1(b) only. 

i(b) and li(A.C.). 

122 

Sailondra Nath Adlnkary . . 

• . 1(h) only. 

ii only. 

122 

Mostafu Mollah 

• • i(b) only. 

i(l») only. 

120 

Ainalendu Do . . 

.. 1(b) only. 


127 

Kamsugar Tluikur 

.. i(b) only. 

1(b) only. 

vi(a) only. 

128 

Mah adeb Chandra Pal 

i(l>) only. 

vi(tt) only. 

190 

Suntosh Kumar Clmtterjee 

. . 1(b) only. 

vlll(a) only . 

129 

Uiiday Itanjun Culm 

• • 1(b) only. 

viii(tt)onl>. 

J 94 

Dilip Kumnt Chatterjoa 

• • 1(10 only. 

Iv only. 

1 20 

•Mushtaque Hussain 

. . Kb) and H (A.C). 

129 

•Sunity Kumar Muklierjee . . 

. . Kb) onlv. 

vi(a) only. 

1(a) and 1(b). 

110 

•Monorunjan Puiil 

.. il (A.C) only. 

iionly. 

1 19 

Jiraja Hehnri lilmduri 

.. Kb) only. 

1(b) only. 

111 

Hama Tmxnmn Kno 

• • 1(b) only. 

vi(u) only. 

145 

Ha mesh Chandra Kajpai . . 

.. ivonly. 

iv only. 

147 

Biren Kar Chowdhury 

. . lv only . 


14S 

•Dhirendra Chandra Deb . . 

. . v|(a) onlv. 

iiiandiv. 

iv only. 

i(b) only. 

149 

•Mortoz All Mollah 

.. i(a)andii. 

150 

NUumuddlu Ahmed 

.. 1(b) only. 

Ii (A. (5) only. 

151 

BIJoy Kumar Sett 

. . i(b) only. 

1(a) and 1(b). 

152 

Gopal Chandra Hoy 

.. 1 v only. 

1(b) only. 

150 

Purtha Sarathi Clmtterjee 

1(b) only. 

157 

Laklmn Chandra Das . . 

.. Kb) onlv. 

1(b) only. 

Hi only. 

159 

Amarendro Natli Bhattiu-haljee 

- • Ka) only. 

100 

Dili]) Kumar Hoy 

.. Id)) onlv. 

1(a) and i(b). 

il only. 

101 

Abdul Majid 

.. i(b) and ii (A.C). 

1(a) and ii. 

109 

Kasudeb Mahan ti 

. . 1(b) only. 

105 

•Go pul Chandra Manna 

iv only. 

i(h). H and Hi. 


108 

•Chaturgununand Miara 

.. 11 onlv. 

i(H).iiandiii. 


109 

Chandra Kantu Mai 

iCO and Kl>). 

vi(a)onlv. 


171 

Itroju Mohan Adak . . 

. . i(b) only. 

Ka) only. 


172 

♦Nemai Chandra Midday 

. . 1(b) only. 

Kb) only. 


17.9 

Sidgdhendu Kumar Sen 

.. i(b) only. 

Kb) only. 


175 

Madhab Chandra liondal . . 

.. i(H)HndJ(b). 

1(b) only. 

1(b) only. 

170 

Cora Chand Chutterjea 

. . Ka) only. 

1(b) only. 

177 

•Tahir All Siddiol 

. . ii only. 



1H4 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


IPmit |i 


Roll 

No. 

Name of candidate. 

Passed in class or f lasses. 

178 

Md. Ashik 

.. 1(a) and 1(h). 

ISO 

•Lakahmi Prasad 

.. i(b) only. 

183 

Paramananda Pradlian 

. . v only. 

1H3 

Sunil Kumar Sirkar 

. . i(b) only. 

185 

Golam Jalani 

. . i(b) only. 

187 

F»da Hussain . . 

. . 1(h) only. 

IKS 

Sk. Toy eh AM .. 

.. 1(h) only. 

ISO 

.Ihvachh .Ilia 

. . Iv only. 

100 

Tarak Nath Muhanto . . 

. . i(l>) only. 

101 

Sudin Sur 

.. 1(a) and 1(h). 

102 

•Arun Kumar Paul 

.. I i only. 

101 

Madan Mohan Koley . . 

.. i(b) only. 

1 08 

•Narendra Mohan Sarkar . . 

Iv only. 

1 00 

l>cv ('hand Pay 

.. i(h) and ii. 

200 

Bljuv Kumar Patloek 

.. i(b) only. 

201 

Pulal Ghaudru l’aul 

. . 1(b) only. 

202 

Manahendra Pas Gupta 

. . 1(h) only. 

203 

Anil Kumar Putta 

. . i(n) and i(l>). 

204 

Ashim Ratan llhowanl 

. . i(b) only. 

200 

•Satrughan Singh 

.. li(A.f’) only. 

207 

Raj Kumar Chakraborty . . 

Iv only. 

210 

Krishna Pas Gangopadhyay 

.. 11 only. 

212 

Ganesh (’handrti Ach.irjee 

. . i(h) only. 

211 

*&aghu Nath llarik 

. . ii only. 

210 

Nandoo Girl 

. . v only. 

217 

Uaugu llum 

.. Iv only. 

218 

♦ Indu hhimaii I’howdhury . . 

i(b) only. 

221 

Rahlndra Nath Panda 

. . 1(h) and ii. 

222 

Ran Jit Kumar Ray 

. . iv only. 

223 

Hudlmugsu f’h. Chanda 

.. i v b)only. 

224 

Nlrmal Kumar Gliatak 

. . ii only. 

225 

Mad h u Sudan Pus 

.. i(b) only. 

227 

A hid K alum Mondal 

. . 11 only. 

230 

Santosh Kumar hhiittaeherjeo 

. . l(l») only. 

231 

Moimrunjan IUhwuh 

iv only. 

232 

♦Adhir Kumar Itusak 

. . i(l>) only. 

230 

Ram Audh Prasad 

.. i(b)on!v. 

238 

Prohodli Kumar Pus 

.. i(a) and i(b). 

2 10 

Rehnti Mohan Nandy 

.. 1(b) onl> . 


•rundidutes In »M Workmen's Permit. 

The symbols used to denote the class of wiring work are 
explained w : — 

For rnltaac not r r.rccdi ng Medt am ]' less are" ( / itdinu Electricity 

Huh * , ntr,f>). 

(,) Wiring of buildings (for limits. fans and Hinall motors)— 

la) ('lent, wood casing and rapping systems, employing 
wires and cables ot her than paper insulated cables. 

( i ,) Metal alionthod, tough rubber and conduit systems 
(also any other system as permitted under t he Indian 
lCloetrieity Act. 11H0. and Indian Kleetncity Kules, 
using wires and cables other than paper 
insulated ruble*. 

In) Motor wiring (uiclud.iitf goneiutnrs). in conduit or lead 
sheathed with wires and cables other than paper insulated 
cable. 

(m) Motor wiring with paper insulated cables (laying and 
jointing). 

(iv) Overhead line work with cable connections other than 
paper insulated cables. 


(v) Paper insulated cable connections (jointing). 

For “ High Pressure" voltages ( Indian Electricity Euler, l[,;, 

(vi) Overhead lines only. 

(vii) Overhead lines with paper insulated cable connect jon*. 

(vtn) Paper insulated cable (laying imd jointing). 

.Vote (hisses u, vii and viii are eneli divided mb, 
Section “a” tot voltages tip to :W,00() volts and “It” 
h.T V'dtages exceeding B.’UXM) volts. 


N. DAS ( 1 1’PTA. Ser>. 


LICEN8INQ BOARD, WEST BENGAL. 


Examinition for Parmitt to Eloetrical Workman hald In Calcutta 
in Novambar 1961. 

Calcutta, the 31 st January lttC‘2. 

The following candidates are declared to have qualified in the class or 
lasses of wiring work mentioned against each named below 


toll No. 


Name of candidate. 


2 ♦Man indr a Nath Biswas 

4 N aresh Chandr* Mazu inder 

5 Joydeh Ttoy . . 

Provash (’hand r a Ganguly 

H Bhangi Dhar Paul 

10 Bimal Kumar Sarkar 

1 1 ♦Krishna Dwalpuyan Sanmnta 

12 (loiiranga Pas 

13 Madam Mohan Mulliek 

14 *Sk. Samiuddln 

15 Tarak Chandra Pas 

lft Bala i (’haudra Bauer jee 
20 Naray an Chandra Pas 
ill Biswa Nath Mukherjee . . 

113 ♦Santosh Kumar Chatterjec 

33 Kainakliya (’haran Mukherjee 

34 Mobil Kumar Roy 

25 ♦Manlndra Chandra hhattacharjc 
37 Susil Kumar Pas 

30 ♦Sushil Kumar Uoy 

31 Dulal Chandra Pas 

33 ltameudra Nath Putatunda 

35 Shyamal Kant.i Pas 
30 Milur Bancrjee 

37 * A pur ha Kumar Bhattacharjee 

30 ♦Itadha Ballnv Manna .. 

4 (i. *Sit.al Chandra Pmda . . 

43 Amarendra Nath Chowdhury 
4 i ♦Siidhaugshu Kumar Mazumder 
4 ft ♦Joydev Mondal 
47 *Sagar Chandra Mondal . 

40 l>cln Prosad Pal 

53 Sailangshu Pas 

54 Bimalendu Samanta 

55 Balfti Chandra Pas 

5 ft *Meghendra Kumar Sarkar 
57 * Santosli Kumar Putta . . 

59 ♦Shambhu Cliaran M-timlal 
61 Madan Mohan Putta 


Passed in class or 
classes. 

vi (a) only. 

i(b) only. 

i(b) only. 

1 1 ( A C.) only 

tv only. 

iv only. 

i(b) onh . 

iv onh . 
i(h) only, 
n only. 

1(h) only, 
i v onl>. 

i v onl> . 
i(b) onlj . 

ii only. 

v onh - 
i(h) ami il. 
ii onh 
i()>) only. 

\ only. 
i(i») only. 
i(b> only 
i(h) only. 
l(h> and ii. 

1(b) only 
ii onh- 
vi(a) only. 
i(h) onlv. 
ii onh ■ 
i i and v. 
vl(n) onlv. 
l(n) only. 

. i(b) only 
. i(h) onh 
1(a) and 1(h) 
iv only. 

. ii(AA'-) only- 
i(h) and ih A ( ^ 
. i(a) only- 



1»\kT HI 


T1IK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


185 


, Name of candidate. 

IMI 

>0 


Passed i n class 
classes. 

i)i pak Kuroar Singh 


Kb) only. 

- .sunil t'liuudra Das 


i(b) only. 

fiti ♦HHtu Puda Dalul 


i(b) and ii. 

,. l7 iiopi Nath Kumlu 


i(b) only. 

Moil'd osli Mukberlec 


i(a) only. 

Virnpada flutter jec 


1(b) only . 

-> daa«‘Hh Chandra Das 


i(b) only. 

r> shNatual Kumar Das 


Ua) only . 

- t ; {(inode Das . . 


li OIll > . 

?J jtniial.inghsu Das tiuptft 


1(b) only. 

^5 * Via k Kumar (’houdhury 


hi and iv. 

, 4 *<ideihes\var Hoy 


ii only. 

Sk llahnmatulltt 


i(b) only. 

*llaian Chandra Oliosb 


i(b) only . 

•Mansoor Ahmed 


n only. 

♦Nircndra Nath Moitra . . 


ii (A.C.) and iv 

^ •Mohauicd Kolirah 


i(b) only . 

*Su till Kumar Saha 


in and 

m s.tmhhu Chandra, Mondal 


i(b) only. 

,,j Nitai t-haudra Hoy 


i(b) only . 

•i? si.dhir Chandra Rout 


i(af and i(b). 

•I.-, M rin.il Mohan Moitra 


i(b) onl\ . 

>n, Mvilidas Mukherjec. 


n( A.C ) and iii. 

>*, * Vu, -h Chandra Paul 


\ i(a) only. 

'i t It.ilai Chandra Daw 


i(l>) only. 

inn ♦Nsunian Sarker 


n «inly. 

mi *snh il lihowmik 


\ III (.1) only . 

in., k-hetr.i Mohan Sarel.ir 


i(b) onh . 

mj I'lonab Iviiinar LI hose 


1 (b) only . 

in .la-want Singh 


Mb) onh 

I'M, Mohamad Kad<|ue 


i(b) and ii. 

1‘iT Sn-lul Ltanjan (’houdhury 


i(b) only. 

I"- *!t.tsaraj Ivimdii 


vi only. 

ill V'llui lvwinur Dhowtnii'K 


i(a) only. 

1!.' 'si- ir Kumar Mukherjec .. 


i(h) only. 

H i ‘M.iliaeleh Khosal 


i(b) only . 

1 1 1 M.elhuban Ch.iudhary 


n only . 

d i Kami rtW.u (iliosi 


i v only 

el ish Chandra liabler . 


v only . 

Hi* k.ihpada (ihoftc 


i(a) and i(h). 

12 - hiiol » Math Das 


i(u) only. 

1-* "*'init\ Kumar Sarkar 


Kh) only. 

Mikumar Sarkar 


i(a) only. 

^ Rartiek Chandra Banerjce 


i(b) only . 

lil Ni'irAhamad 


i(b) only. 

1-> J Kiinnkes .Teswara 


iv only . 

1m Jit. ndra Nath Neogi 


i(b) ejnly. 

l3 ' Kohtul Usque 


i(b) only 

1111 I'udip Chandra Mazumder 


i(b) only. 

*'bl Hmshim 


il only. 

^ Kim Sumirun Prasad Singh 


ii only. 

N K Ktbirajan Cbctty .. 


Kb) only. 

1,f ’ ^Unelr-rlal 


Ha) only 

144 "u clh.tr Majee 
’’ * r "duii(la Chandra Das .. 


Kb) only. 

ii only . 

K.uned, Chandra Koy .. 


i(a) only 

^ K lunar Kar 


i(b) only. 

^ * y 4ndaDulaiSmgh 

■ . # 

li onl*. ‘ 


11**11 Name of candidate. 

N**. 


Passed in class or 
classes. 

IBS 

♦Nityanauda l>cy 


ii only . 

1 7(1 

Dumber UUudur Olihetri 


iv only . 

171 

♦Moni Hahadur Temang 


i v only 

172 

•VckbiLal Kao 


vl(u) only. 

17:> 

Arjun Tewary 


i(u) only 

L70 

-libau Kumar Dey 


Kb) only . 

180 

Rat.nt‘Hwar Sinlui 


Kb) only. 

ISO 

Sitaram Chowbey 


iv only 

iso 

Natlia Prosad 


vl(ft) only. 

m 

Denude Reharl Das 


i(a) and 1(b). 

102 

M.idan Mohan I>ns 


Kb) only. 

103 

Durga Das Mukherjec 


v only. 

101 

♦(langa Dhar tlhosh 


Kb) only. 

ior» 

Saukar Prtisad Mukherjec 


i(n) and 1(b). 

200 

Suelhau Khattacharjoe 


Kb) only. 

202 

Sum Id m Nath Das 


i(b) only. 

2 or» 

llakhal Chandra Das 


iv and vi(a). 

200 

Dilip Kumar Sarkar 


i(l>) only. 

208 

Monoraiijan Saha 


iv only. 

212 

Mahuboob AH 


i (a) only. 

210 

Sambhu Noth Daw 


Kb) only 

210 

Itabliielra Natli Duttu 


Kb) only. 

221 

Sk. Md. lsrail 


iv only. 

222 

Pur linn 1 Chandra Cki I 


iv only. 

222 

♦Narnia lail Paul 

e. 

\ l(a) only 

«*«»r, 

♦.luganuath lliswus 


n only. 

220 

♦.lagudlsh lloy 


\ i(a) only 

2**7 

*Puiiehaiiaii DaHa 


Kb) only. 

k».»q 

Ruoieswar Piasad 


Kb) only. 

220 

Siishil Ktiiuai Dey 


i v only. 

222 

Auanta Prasad 


Kb) only 

22 1 

lulu Hum 


i v only . 

22 r» 

A |.il» Nurain 


i(l*) only 

220 

•(iopali Median Hag 


i(b) only . 

210 

A 1 1 1 . 1 1 1 Kumar (iuliu 


Mb) only 


♦Candidate's hold Wen koieti’s 

Pe ril! it . 

The sx mliols us-d toeleiicde 1 In clas-. of wiling \\oi k ait explained Im low - 

For 

rollout’ not v •'•••nhiitf “ Mnhoin I'lt sHi/tr” 
l'i >0). 

( hi (him Kh thinly /f«/o>. 


(i) Wiring «d buildings (fni lif'lilM. I .« n.- ami small motoj*-) 

(a) Cleat , wood rasing atnl capping systems, employing hitch and cables 
other than paper insulated cables 

(£»> Metal sheathed, tough rubber and conduit systems (also any other 
system as permitted under the Indian Klcctiiclty Act, 1010, and 
Indian Klectrldtv Hides Hlfift), using vires and cables other than 
paper insulated cables 

(ii) Motor wiring (including generators), m conduit or lead sheathed with 
wires and cables other than paper Insulate d cable. 

(in) Motor wiring with paper insulated cables (hiMtig and jointing) 

(i v) ( >verhea<l Inn* work with cable count et it mis ot be i t ban pa pel insulate d 
eables. 

(v) Paper insulated cable connections (lointmg) 

For " Jhyh Frntxurr" roltaues (ho! ion Kin ti min /in't , I'/iO) 

(vi) Overhead lines only . 

(vii) Overhead lines with pap* r insiihctcel eahh conin' t i*»m 
(viiu Paper insulated cable (laMiig and minting) 

Sot, Classes < V I > (vii) mil (vml aie eaeh eli\id<el into -'-Inus “a” 
fur voltages up to 22,000 volt -i and ,l l»” for voltages e seceding Who volts. 

vj das aum, 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


18(1 


[Part \\ 


UNION PUBLIC 8ERVICE COMMI88ION 
Advertisement No. 16 

APPLICATIONS are invited lor undermentioned posts 
from Indian citizens and persons </f Indian origin migrated 
from Pakistan with intention ot permanently settling in 
India, subjects oi Nepal, Sikkim or State of Pondicherry, 
and persons domiciled in Goa, Daman and Diu. Age limits 
relaxable for Government servants except where otherwise 
specified. Upper age limits relaxable by o years for 
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes candidates. No 
relaxation t<vr others, save in exceptional circumstances, 
and will in no ease be relaxed beyond three years. 
Qualifications relaxable at Commission’s discretion in case 
of candidates otherwise well qualified. Particulars and 
application forms obtainable from Secretary, Union Public 
Service Commission, Post Box No. 180, New Delhi. 
Bequest for forms must specify name of post and should 
he accompanied by self-addressed unstamped envelope for 
onrh post at least oi size 9"x4" indicating thereon name 
of posts for which forms are required. Closing date for 
receipt of application with treasury receipt or crossed 
Indian Postal Order for Us. 7.50 nP. (1.87 nP. for 
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes) the 21st May 196- 
(1th June MM 12 ior applicants from abroad). Separate 
application with separate lee required tor each post. 
Candidates abroad may appl> on plain paper if forms are 
not available and deposit fee with local Indian Embassy. 
If, required candidates must appear for personal 
mien iew. 

1. One Assistant Professor of English, Agricultural 
College, Himachal Pracfeflh Administration. Post tempo- 
rary and likely to continue. Other things being equal, 
preference will he given to Scheduled Castes /Tribes candi- 
date. Pay:— Us. 250—25 -550 — E.B. -25—750. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age: -55 years and boh/w. Qualifications; Essential — ( i) 
Master’s or equivalent Honours Degree in Arts of a 
recognised University, with specialisation in English, (ii) 
About, three years’ experience of teaching English to Degree 
classes, (iii) Working knowledge of Hindi. 

2. Research Offioer, Central Regional and Urban Plan- 
ning Organisation, Ministry of Health. Post temporary, 
hut likely to ri/ntmue indefinitely. Post reserved firstly 
for Scheduled Tribes candidate, and secondly for Scheduled 
Castes candidate, if such suitable candidate available; 
otherwise treated as unreserved. Pay:— Us. 400 — 400— 
tr>0— 50 600 55 — 070 — E.B.- 55—950. Higher initial pay 
to specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age: — 
55 years and below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) Master’s 
or equivalent Honours Degree in Economies, Commerce or 
Geography of a recognised university. (ii) About thiee 
\ ears’ experience ot conducting research in Socio-Economic 
problems, preferably connected with regional and urban 
de\ elopinent. 

5. One Researoh Officer (Public Administration), Central 
Institute ot Study and Research, Mussoorie, Ministry of 
Community Development and Co-operation. Post tempo- 
ral and likely to continue till the end of Third Five-Year 
Plan. Pay R‘s. 400— 25— 500— ^10— 590 -E. B.— 50— £(X>— 
E.B. — 50 — 850 — 55 — 900. Higher initial pay to specially 
qualified and experienced candidate. AgC: — *45 years and 
below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) Second Class Master’s 
Degree in Public Administration of a recognised Univer- 
sity, or equivalent qualification. (ii) About three years’ 
experience of participation in field research /Rural survey 
a*nd /or teaching University classes. 

1. Eight Family Planning Offioers for the Family 
Planning Touring Training Teams, Ministry of Health. 

Posts temporary but likely to continue Two posts reserv- 
ed for Scheduled Tribes and cme for Scheduled Castes 
candidates. If no such suitable candidates available, the 
posts will be treated as unreserved. Pay:— Us. 400 — 400 — 
450—50—600 — 55 — 670 — E. B. — 55 — 950 plus non-praetising 
allowance of 2.5 per cent, of pav subject to a minimum of 
Rs. 150 per month and a maximum of Us. 400 per month. 
(Private practice of any kind including consultant and 
laboratory practice not allowed). Higher initial pay to 
specially qualified and experienced candidates. Age: — 
Below 55 years. Qualifications: Essential — (i) A Medical 
qualification (other than licentiates) included in the First 
or Second Schedule or Part II of the Third Schedule to 
the Indian Medical Council Art. 1956. [Persons possessing 
Qualifications included in Part IT of Third Schedule should 


also fulfil the conditions relating to registration snor-ifi^i 
in section 15(5) of the Act. | (ii) About five years' 
practical experience in Public Health or as Physician/ 
Surgeon in any institution of repute. 1 

5. (I) one Researoh Offioer (Fllarla), National Fiiari* 

Control Programme and (II) one Researoh Offioer (Fiiariav 
Malaria Institute of India, Delhi, Ministry of Health 

Post (1) is temporary and likely to continue; post (]j! 
is permanent. Post (l) reserved for Scheduled Cast,., 
candidate; if no such suitable candidate available, 
the posts will be treated as unreserved. Persons who had 
applied in response to Commission’s advertisement pul,. 
Imbed on 19th August 1961 need not apply again. Pay-- 
Its. .‘150 —25 — .500 — 50 — 590 — E. B.— 50— 800— E. B 
K50— 55— 900. (Private practice of any kind inehichn 

laboratory and consultant practice not allowed.) High,.] 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidates 
Age: — 15 years and belc/w. Qualifications: Essential- (, 

A Medical qualification (other than licentiate qualifications) 
included in the First or Second Schedule or Part II n | 
Third Schedule to the Indian Medical Council Act. 1 t,i ( 

| Persons possessing qualifications included in Part 11 0 
Third Schedule should also fulfil the conditions relating t, 
Registration specified in section 15(5) ol the Act i ( 
Post-graduate qualification, e.g., D.P.H./D.T.M.iVlI (m 
Training in Malariologv or Filariology. (iv) About hv< 
years’ experience in Kilaria/ Malaria, control or research. 

<». (a) three Lecturers (senior scale) in Art and (b 

two Lecturers (ordinary scale) in Art, Delhi Polytechnic 
Delhi. Posts permanent. One each of the posts at (a 
and (b) reserved fc/r Scheduled Castes/ Tribes candidates 
if such suitahe candidates available, otherwise all the ftv 
'posts tu rated as unreserved. Pay: — For (a) — Us 550 
550 — 580 — .‘180 — 50 590 E. B.— 50— 770- 10 850 (|,kel 
to be revised in the light oi the Pay Commission’s rccmii 
mendations) . For (b)— Us. 575- 25— 500- -50— ,590- 50- 
650. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and expen 
(‘need candidates. Age: — For (a): U) years and beha 
and lor post (!>): 55 years and below. Qualifications 

Essential — For (a): (i) A diploma, in Art from a. nvuj; 
msed School of Art. (ii) About three years’ profession;! 
experience in Commercial or Applied Art and/or temhm; 
experience. For (b): (i) Diploma in Art from n nx-o-j 
nised School o| Art. (ii) About two .\ears’ profession.) 
experience in Commercial or Applied Art and/or teaclnn, 
experience. 

7. (a) one Insect Geneticist and (b) one Nematologis 

Indian Agricultural Researoh Institute, Ministry of Foo 
and Agriculture (Department of Agriculture). Post', ton 
poiarv hut likely to continue Pay: — Rs. 700 — 50 — 1.251 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experience 
candidates. Age: — 15 years and below. Qualifications 
Essential — For post (a): (i) M.Sc. in Zoology /Agricult me 
with specialisation in Entomology or in Entoiiu>log\ , </r 
Associateship in Entomology. (ii) About seven > ears' 

»cKoa*reh experience in penetmal problems in relation to 
insects of agricultural importance and resistance (/l plants 
to insect pests as evidenced bv published papers. For post 
(b) : Essential (i) M.Sc. in Zoology / Agriculture with 
specialisation in Nematology. (ii) About seven 

research experience in Nematology, esperiallv in relation 
to pests of agricultural crops ns evidenced by published 
papers. 

8 One Chemist and Metallurgist. Ministry of Railways. 

Post permanent. Post reserved for Scheduled Castes 
candidate if such suitable candidate is available other- 
wise treated unreserved. Pay: — Rs. 700 — 40—1.100-50/- 

1.500 Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. Age: — 55 years and below Quali- 
fications: Essential — (i) First Class degree in Metallurgy 
of recognised University or equivalent. (ii) About five 
years’ experience in a responsible position in the met rdlur- 
gical line, either in charge <yf metallurgical workshop nr 
conf rol and research laboratories and conversant with the 
detailed working of ferrous and non-ferrous foundries 
forging and heat treatment shops. 

9. Editor, Publicity Department, Manipur. Post tem- 
porary. likely to continue c/n long term basis PaVJ 
Rs. 200 — 20-1-500 — 25 — 400 — F.B. 25—500 Higher initial 
pav to specially qualified and exnerienced candidate AS* 

50 years and below. Qualifications: Essential—^ 
Degree of a recognised university, (ii) About three 'enr 5 
experience of editorial /publicity work under Govertinjen 
or in a news agency or publicity organisation of standJBS- 
(iii) Good, .knowledge of Maaipuri. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


187 


I'aut^I ] 


in One Assistant Professor In (Applied Mechanics and 
u«at Engines) Meehan ioal Engineering for Delhi Poly- 

tl^hnlc. Post temporary. Post reserved tor Scheduled 
Jwtes/ Tribes candidate* if such suitable candidate is 
vailable otherwise treated unreserved. Pay:— Rs. 600— 

il ,n\ ()()d 50 / 2 — 1,150 (subject to revision in the light of 

P Commission’s recommendations). Higher initial pay 
* soecinllv qualified and experienced candidate. Age: — 
i() years and below. Qualifications! Essential— (i) Degree 
■ Mechanical Kngineering (specialised in Applied Mecha- 
nics and Heat Engines), preferably in First ( lass, of 
recognised University or equivalent, (ii) About five years’ 
teaching and professional research experience in responsi- 
ble position. 

U. Four Deputy Director, Films Division, Ministry of 
Information end Broadcasting. One post permanent and 
three ]>(/sts temporary with likelihood of continuing 
indefinitely or becoming permanent, but appointment to 
l„. made on temporary oasis in all cases. One post 
(Permanent) reserved for Scheduled Tribes and another 
(temporary) for Scheduled Castes and stall another reserv- 
ed tor Scheduled Castoa/ Tribes candidates, if such suit- 
,, 1 , 1 ,, candidates available; otherwise all the four posts 
1 1 cub'd as unreserved. Candidates who applied earlier in 
response to the Commission’s advertisement No. 47 (item 
No 1*2) published on 25th November 1961 need not apply 
ngiHM . Pays— Us. 400 — 400-450— 50— G00— 35— 670— E.B. 
_ ;C> -4*50. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidates. Age: — 10 years and below. 
Qualifications: Essential — (i) Degree of a recognised 
university. (ii) About throe years’ experience of produc- 
tion of motion picture films in a reputed organisation, 
(lii) Knowledge of Indian History and Culture and curront 
affairs. 

12 One Rloe Technologist, Central Rioe Research Insti- 
tute, Cuttack, Ministry of Food and Agriculture. Post 

lempornry hut likely to continue. Pay: — Us. 700 — 50 — 
1.250. Higher initial pay to specially qualified a*nd experi- 
enced candidate. Age: — 55 years and below. Qualifica- 
tions: Essential — (i) Master’s degree in Botany or Agri- 
cultural Botany or Agriculture with Specialisation in 
P Isi'ti f Breeding and Genetics of recognised University or 
cqiiiMilcnt (or) Associatoship of T A.tt.l. in Plant Breed- 
ing and Genetics. (ii) About, seven years’ experience of 
gcnctir research, preferably dealing with characters res- 
ponsible for nutritional value in cereal crops as evidenced 
by published papers. 


Agriculture or Horticulture or Associatoship of I.A.R.I. 
in Plnnt Breeding and Genetics oi Horticulture, (ii) About 
three years’ research experience in Vegetable Brccdiug as 
evidenced by published papers, 

16. Assistant Director (Designs), All India Handicrafts 
Board, Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Post perma- 
nent, Imt appointment to he made on temporary basis in 
hen vacancy. Other things being equal. Scheduled Cartes / 
Tribes candidate will be preferred. Pay: — Us. 400 — 400 — 
450 -30—600 15 — 670- E. B. — 35- 050. Higher initial pay 
to speoiivllv qualified nncl experienced candidate. Ago: — 
Between 25 and 40 years. Qualifications: Essential— (i) 
Degree or Diploma in Art oi recognised University / Institu- 
tion of Arts and (’rafts. (ii) About three years’ experi- 
ence of creative design work in any media. (iii) S</mo 
admin ist rative experience. 

17. Statistician, Central Rloe Researoh Institute, 

Cuttaok, Ministry of Food and Agriculture. Post tempo- 
rary hut liketv to continue. Pay:— Rk. 400 — 400— -150- -30 
— 600- -35 — 670 — K. B.--35 050. Higher initial pay to 

specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age 1—415 
years and below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) Master’s 
or equivalent Honours degree in Statistics or Mathematics 
of a reccfgmsod university, (ii) About, three years’ experi- 
ence of work relating to collection, analysis and interpre- 
tation of statistical data*. 


Corrigendum 

Reoruitment of 8 Assistant Architects, Military Engineer 
Service, Ministry of Defence. In partial modification of 
( ’onirnissioti’s advertisement No. K, item No. 11, published 
on 21th February 1062, it is notified for general informa- 
tion that out, of 8 posts 3 posts are reserved for Scheduled 
Gustos and one for Scheduled Tribes ciMidi dates if such 
suitable candidates are available; otherwise all posts treat- 
ed as unreserved. Other conditions remain unchanged, 
(’losing date extended to 7th May 1962. 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 
Advertisement No. 17 


13. Three Assistant Researdh Officers (Processing) at 
the Central Fisheries Technological Research Station, 
Ministry of Food and Agriculture. Posts temporary but 
I’ki'K to continue indefinitely. One post for Scheduled 
( a sics and one for Scheduled Tribes candidates reserved 
il such suitable candidates arc available otherwise all 
posts treated unreserved. Pav: — Rs. 350 -25 - 500 — 30— 
59!) - K. B.— 30— 800— E. B. — 30 - 830 - -.*15 — 900. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidates. 
Age:— 35 years and below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) 
Master’s degree in Chemistry / Biochemistry /Food Techno- 
l°Kv nl recognised University, or equivalent. (ii) About 
two years’ research /practical experience in food processing. 

J f One Professor of English, Indian Aid Mission, Nepal, 
Ministry of External Affairs. Post temporary, and the 
feriod of appointment will bo two years in the first 
Tt Mlr n„ Pa *i— Rs 900 -50— 1.200 plus Nopal allnwanoe 
0 ” s * "50 per month if married, otherwise R*s. 162.50 nP. 
I'^r month. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
p Honoured candidate. AgC: — Preferably below 50 years 

♦« Inr l n .ding Government servants. Qualifications: 
s^tlai—G) "Doctorato in English of a recognised Uni- 
ecsif v . with a-br/iit soven vears’ post-graduate (preferably 
tT ox l )Gr ^ n °fi. Or Second class Master’s or equiva- 
sdv H . n + r ir i S ^ 0Rree English of a recognised Univer- 
’ w, th about ten years’ nost -graduate experience and 
publications to bis credit, (ii) Knowledge of Middle 


rmmt Specialist In the 8oheme for Improve 

of t.Z ****'**'“’ Jammu and Kashmir, Indian Councl 
. " cultural Research. Post temnorarv but likelv to con 
770 ° i n 8 o s ‘150 350 — 380 — 380- -30 590— F.B.— 30- 
^. n • ~ Higher initial pav to specially qualified an< 

ficaflo«!! re< L r,,n 4 , ^ ate * A 8 es — 45 year® and below. Quail 
Cwntlal^G) 5f.Sc. in ^gricultuwjl Botany o 


APPLICATIONS arc^ invited tor undermentioned posts 
from Indian citizens and persons c/l Indian origin migrated 
from Pakistan with intention of permanently sett, ling in 
Tndia, subject of Nepal, Sikkim or State' of Pomlichcrrv, 
and persons domiciled in Goa, Daman and Din. Age limits 
relaxable for Government servants exoept where otherwise 
specified. Upper ago limits relaxable by 5 years for 
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes candidate's. No 
relaxation fc/r others, save in exceptional circumstances, 
and will in no rase be relaxed beyond three years. 

Qualifications relaxable at Commission’s discretion In case 
of candidates otherwise well qualified. Particulars and 
application forms obtainable from Secretary, Union Public 
Service Commission, Post Box No. 186, New Delhi. 
Request for forms must specify name of post and should 
be accompanied bv self-addressed unstamped envelope for 
each post at least of size 9"x1" indicating thoreon name 
of posts for which forms are required. Closing dote for 
receipt of application with treasury receipt or crossed 
Indian Postal Order for Rs 7 50 nP (1.87 nP for 
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes) the 28th May 1962 
(11th June 1962 for applicants from abroad). Separate 
application with separate fee required for each post. 
Candidates abroad mav a poly on plain paper if 0/rnis are 
not available and denosit fee with local Indian Embassy. 
If, required candidates must appear for personal 
interview. 

1. One Lecturer In Department of Pharmacology (Non- 
Medical) in the Maulana Azatf Medical College, Delhi 
Administration. Post temporary but likelv to become 
permanent. Pav: — Rs. 530 30 650 Higher initial pav 
to specially qualified and experienced candidate Age: 

45 venrs and helr/w. Qualifications: Essential— (?) M Sc 
or Ph.D. degree in Organic Chcmistyv of recognised Uni- 
versity or equivalent. (ii) At least two years’ research 
experie^ee ip P^Ttoclie^istty. 


188 


THE UALCIITTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


““.rrr; as— a» 
svwsr '.’'£5r7 a ssnsr^; 

long term basis. rM . . 25 per rent- of 
:W -^00 plus Noil-1 ractisiug month. (Private 

pay subject to a minimum o * ,, ^ \ Higher initial 

narti.e Ot any kin,! will n° > J* a “°* e r £. Ud randidates. 
U.v tn i s f «.lly Essential— (i) A 

Age: — Below .Hi >iu»rs. v First or Second 

Medical (Iiialifinution ‘ “r’hi^d's, l«‘d« U* to the Indian Medi- 
Schedule or l a\ [Persons possessing qualifications 

cal ( ouncil Act, • • • ' . , Schedule should also fulfil 

thc^com^ p|m)d^°Tr!uisfusi^ 

ot in 

pmate practice or m public health. 

zxsnZmS s£s» yassra 
tssanx fe-jfttfass 

maiient m due ( our so. Scheduled Tribes candidates, it 

,„,S,S treaty »» " r ^; s Jww. Qualification*! 

i ui'ii t of ( o-opori*twm. 

r-%» j*i !sasg^ea. «»- 

Initial pay "to* spee.ulU 

eA’sW' irp^hcEasbs 

rABS&^vd-s** 

development mid /or extension work, 

n=Pi? 31 §§ 

suitable eaiididnte iiv.ul»b •< im_30/2— 1,150. Higher 

Sly ‘-< 4 ^ 

KKjtXS 5^5 i ;'■=! 

UimciMtN. ) Practitioner, preferably connected 

‘"v^h ‘:/::i,T^toc.? r < ^ a ^Lpo^rb r n- 

v ipacitv. 

^,dfi"nU one 1 lor a Scheduled Tn cs -ndKlate^d no 

K o,h suitable candidates avaiKMo, all ^ 2 iv 3 . 00 - 30~590 

lr ?‘{? 1 « ■nnSKct&n* allowance of 2.1 per 

ft- K 

i a e cnamicMions) to the Indian Med, cal Conned Act 
fenn [ Persons possessing qualifications included m Part 
li of Third Schedule should also fulfil 

me to registration specifit'd in section 13(3) in the Act. | 
ViT» About t«,i years’ experience as House Surgeon or m 
private practice or in public health. 

7 One Assistant Mineral Technologist (Assaying) In 
tha Department of Mines .nd Fuel, Ministry ol Stee , Mines 
and Fuel. Post permanent but appointment will be made 
on temporal! basis in the first instance. Post reserved 
for Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidate if such suitable 
j- s + vn iHblc otherwise treated unreserved. Pay: 

<a ^ llat wo "lo—fioo— nr,- «7o--K. B. -w-wo. 

; mtr ,l ,mv to specially qualified and experienced 

* „* ! A «•"- ns years and beW. Qualifications, 

Sss« 


[Part u 

v 



Degree in Metallurgy or Metallurgical Engineering 0 j 
recognised University /Institute or equivalent with sp, H -i a . 
lisution in analysis of ores, metals and minerals. 
Training in all aspects of inorganic analysis inchi<hn„ 
Polarograjihic and other analytical methods. ( lii ) Abnui 
three years’ experience in laboratory concerned with utili- 
sation ot ores and minerals. 

K. One Plant Breeder for the Department of Agricul- 
ture, Tripura Administration. Post, temporary hut hk»*u 
to continue indefinitely. Other things being equ.,1 
Scheduled Cartes /Tribes would he preferred. Pay:- 
Rs. 250 —20 — 650 — 25-— 750 (with E.B. at 10th and lR t |, 
stages). Higher initial pay up to the 10th stage mu\ |». 
granted to specially qualified and experienced candidate 
Age:— 40 years and below*. Qualification: Essential _tn 
Master’s degree in Botany or Agricultural Hntaiiy or 
Agriculture of a recognised University, Or AssocuitHuji 
of I. A.R. I. in Plant Breeding and Genetics. (u) About 
two years’ research/ practical experience in Plant Breed- 
ing wild Genetics. 

<> one Health Educator, Pilot Family Planning Educa- 
tion Units, Directorate General of Health Services. IVt 

temporary but likely to continue. Post reserved tor 
Scheduled Castes candidate; if no such suitable candidate 
available, will be treated as unreserved. Pay:— Hs too - 

25 500 — 30 — 500 — E. B. ~30-8(X)~E. B.— -30- -KAO :v, . 

900. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and cvpm- 
eticed candidate. Age:— 35 years ami below. Qualifica- 
tions: Essential — (i) Second Class Master’s degree m 
Social Seienec* or Educa-tiou of a recognised Ilnircrsm 
( 1 1 ) Training in Health Education, (lii) About the .Muirs' 
experience in health education or social work or research 
in Social Sciences. 

10. One Social Worker Instructor, Family Planning 
Training and Research Centre, Bombay, Directorate Gene- 
ral Of Health 8erv)oes. Post, temporary and likeh to con- 
tinue. Post reserved for Scheduled ( ustes/ Tribes ramh- 
date; if no such suitable candidate available, will be 
treated as unreserved. Pay: — Hs. 230—10 — 300 !•>— l.»t» 
— 25/2—500. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. Age:- 10 \ears and below. Quali- 
fications: Essential— Post-graduate Diploma m Social Sci- 
vice ot a recognised lust, it ut urn or equivalent quahiicatioii 


H (a) Two Assistant Health Officers (Zonal) and (b) 
one Assistant Health Officer (Planning), Municipal Corpo- 
ration of Delhi. Posts permanent, but appointment will 
be made on temporary basis. Post (b) reseivcd fur 
Scheduled Tribes/ Castes candidate; it no such suitable 
candidate available, nil posts treated as unreserved 
Pay: Post (n)--Ks. 300— 25- 500— K. B. -30 710, On 

— H's. 275—25 500 -E. B. ; 10— 050 plus come.wmu 
alhnvaiice aecording to rules. Private practice ot any kind 
will not be allowed. (The scale of pay is subject In rousiun 
in the light of Pav Gommission’s rocommcndal mn^ » 
Higher initial pa.v to specially qualified and cxpcncncod 
candidates. Age: -35 years and below. Qualifications: 
Essential— (i> A Medical qualification included in the nrst 
or Second Schedule or Part 11 of the Third Schedule Udlwr 
than Licentiate qualifications) to the Indian 
Council Act, 1955. [Persons possessing cpwlihe" 
included in Part IT of Third Schedule should also fulfil the 
conditions relating to registration specified in section 
r/F the Art.l (ii> Post-graduate qualification m FuW 
Health, e.g., D.P.H. or D.T.M.&H. On) About &***"* 
experience in Public Health Administration for posts 
and in Hospital Administration for post (b). 

12. One Deputy Legal Adviser, Land and Hous *^ 

Department, Delhi Administration. Post temporary an 
likelv to continue. Post reserved lor Scheduled 
Tribes candidate. Applications Invited from Scheduled 
Castes and Scheduled Tribes candidates only, r !• 
Rs. 900 — 10 — 1 ,1 00 — 50 / 2—1 ,250. Higher initial pa\ ^ 

sfiecially qualified and experienced candidate. * m 

vears and below. Qualifications: Essential— 0) 

Tiaw of a recognised University. 00 About 1 we '* . 
experience as practising Lawyer m Fivil 0 { 

Familiarity with principles and practice of vaiuami 
property. 

13. Thr«e Research Officers, Forest Research 

and Colleges, Dehra Dun. Posts temporal-.' , b' 1 * 
continue indefinitely. Tww posts resprv -^ ' . vw latt 

Castes candidate* if mieh suitable candidatee.are *vau» 
otweftso «4I post* tieated njufese^ed- 


p.i»r II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


189 


Not?* Candidates who Have already applied in response 
to the Commission’s advertisement No. 45, dated 
11th November 1961, for the above posts need not 
apply again and they will be considered for these 
posts on the basis of their earlier applications. 

pa u { _Rs.. . ]50 — 25— 60<J— 3< L-59f ) — K . B. — M — 800 — E. B. 

;Ci-4KXb Higher initial pay to specially quali- 

r i B , n j experienced candidate. Ages — .‘15 years ana below. 
Qualification*! Essential (i) At least second class M.Sc. 
degree in Zoology, (m Training in Wood Preservation and 
about tw«» years’ experience in Marine Biology relating 
to wood boring or tooling organisms. 

u One Permanent Stores Officer at the Port of Coohin, 
Ministry of Transport and Communications (Department of 
Trsnsport — Transport Wing). Post reserved for Scheduled 

Tiihcs candidate. If no suitable candidate belonging to 
scheduled Tribes or Scheduled Castes is available, post may 
ho treated a* s unreserxed. Pfly i—lts, — 25— >500 — 500 — 

K B - (>50--E.B. — dl> —800. (Subject to revision in the 
lioht the recommendations of the Central Pay Commis- 
sl0I1 ) Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experi- 
enced candidate. Age: — Below 40 years. Qualifications I 
Essential — (i) Degree in Mechanical Engineering of recog- 
nised University of equivalent qualifications, (ii) About 3 
vears’ experience in the purchase of stores and their 
kocounting. 

15 One Chief Training Superintendent in the Central 
inland Fisheries Research Institute, Barraokporo (via 

Calcutta). Post temporary, but likely to continue indefi- 
nitely. Other things being equal, Scheduled Castes /Tribes 
candidate will be preferred. Payi — Rs. 100 — 40 — 800—50^ 
q.V) Higher initiol pay to specially qualified and experi- 
enced candidates except- those who are Central Government 
employees. Ago: — 35 years and below. Qualifications t 
Essential — (i) M.Sc. degree in Zoology of a recognised 
University or equivalent. (ii) About three years’ experi- 
ence in Fisheries Research and Development including 
training work in fisheries, or teaching experience. 

U>. One Assistant Development Offioor, Development 
Centre for Pine Apple Fibre Industry, Ministry of Com- 
merce and Industry. Pc/st temporary but likely to conti- 
nue. Other things being equal Scheduled Castes/ Tribes 
candidate would be preferred. Pays — Rs. 350 — 25 — 500— 
;)0 — TdHl — K. B. — 30—800 ~E. B.- -30—830 — 35 —900. Higher 
imiial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age:- 10 years and below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) 
Oagree or Diploma in Textile Technology of recognised 
University / Institute. f 1 1 > Training /experience in extrac- 
tion ot nai-ural fibres oilier than jute and coir, (iii) AbouT 
two years’ experience of research in dyeing, procesaing, 
Hr., of natural fibres. 

17. One Chief Engineer, Security Paper Mill Projeot, 
Ministry of Finance (Department of Eoonomio Affairs). 

P«sF temporary hut likely to become permanent. Other 
things being equal Scheduled Cast.es/Tribes candidate 
wmild be preferred. Pays— Ris. 1,300 —60 — 1 ,600. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age: -* Preferably between 35 and 45 years. Qualifications i 
Essential— (i) Degree in Mechanical Engineering or Elee- 
traal and Mechanical Engineering of recognised University 
° r equivalent. (u) Ten to 15 years’ standing as a Main- 
tenance Engineer m a manufacturing concern, a-nd sub- 
d-ant ia| experience in a responsible capacity in a Paper 
'oil (in) Experience of Erection, Operation and Main- 
tenanei* oi Boilers, Heavy Industrial Machinery, Water 
N upply Installations and repair workshop. 


which have now become part of India, candidates from 
Andaman and Nicobar Islands, repatriates from Cevlon 
who are Indian citizens and certain categories of Govern- 
ment servants, including persons who were employed on 
1st January I960 (on a pay exceeding Rs. 160 per month) 
in or under the Ministry of Rehabilitation. Qualifications: 
A degree or equivalent. Applications from candidate*, who 
ha\e appeared or intend appearing at the qualifying 
examination acceptable provisionally. Full particulars and 
application forma obtainable from Secretary, Union Publu 
Senior tom mission. Dholpur House, D.H.Q., p.(>. tf ow 

Delhi-1 1 , by remitting Re. 1 .(X) by money order or on cash 
payment wt the counter. A candidate must clearly state 
on money order ooupon “ASSISTANTS’ GRADE EXAMI- 
NATION, 1962” and alto give his name and full address In 
Mook letters. Postal c/rders or cheques or currency notes 
will not he accepted in lien of money orders. Completed 
applications must roach the Union Puhlie Service Commis- 
sion by 18th June 1962 (2nd July 1962, in case of candi- 
dates residing abroad). 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 

General InstruotionB to candidates applying in response to 
advertisements Issued by the Commission for recruit- 
ment to posts of "Belaotlovt". 

(1) Instructions regarding submission of application. 

Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service t Com- 
mission, Weal Bengal, Anderson Houae (ground fioor). 
All pore, Calcutta-27, personally or on Aending » large sell 
addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to cover the 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 
copies of the prescribed form may apply on any similar 
fcyjied (not handwritten) form showing exactly the word- 
ing and spacing of the sample form published in the 
Calcutta Gazette ’ of the let September 1965, provided 
the blanks are filled ud in the candidates’ own handwriting 

(2) Particulars and oortlftoatos required.— Candidate* 

should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications ann 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of tbeir apple ulion*. 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character. 

The Commission accepts only the age ot a candidate as 
recorded m the Matriculation or the Secondary School 
Final / Leaving Certificate. In the case of a female candi- 
date whose age is not recorded in the Matriculation oi 
School Final Certificate, any of the following evidence of 
age la accepted by the Commission: — 

1. A f-eitificate from the Headmistress of the school 

which she last attended, showing her exact age a« 
recorded in the school register. 

2. An affidavit regarding her age sworn by her J ath*»r 

or mother or some other person in a positi »n t«* 
know hy having been present or beard of b* r bir li- 
st the time of occurrence. 

8 A certificate regarding her age, from a Member o 1 
the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who miisi 
have known the candidate and her family, indicat, 
ing clearly the evidence on the basis of who h he/ 
she satisfied himself /herself on the point. 


Assistants' Grade Examination, 1062 

Till': UNION IMIBfJC SKRVK’K COMMISSION will hold 
J 1 / \hniedahiid, Allahabad, Bangalore, Bhopal, Bombay, 
Cuttack, Delhi, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Jammu, 
JaclniN, Nagpur. Patiala, Patna, Shillong, Trivandrum and 
J elected Indian Missions abroad, a competitive examina- 
, lnn r r/mim*iKing on 28th December 1962, for recruitment 
o vacancies m Grade TV .(Assistants) of Central Secreta- 
, Semen, Grade IV (Assistants) of Indian Foreign Ser- 
s£. HWh B>. Grade TV (Assistants) of Railway Board 
.^ rrv ' c ‘° ,in d to posts of Assistants in certain 
Sej "'^ n °t included within the purview of any of these 
icr » Vllf v Flection Commission, Department of Tour- 
Urn Ptf limits on 1st August 1&62i 20-25 years. 

i 1 ,l ^ e “^ I ”it relaxablc in fawour of Scheduled Castes, 
pfluled Tribes, residents of former French settlements 


(3) Pm. Candidates must enclose with their npnlira 
tions a fee of Re. 5 In the form of a receipted chalnn 
from a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India 
under the head “XXXVI — Miscellaneous— Receipts of t.h* 
,% ublic Servire Commission, West Bengal”. Money < rdem, 
r 'hfN|ues. etc,, in lieu of treasury challans are not accepted 
Postal order, however, may be accepted from candidates 
Thor should be crossed and made payable to “The Secre- 
tary. Public Service Commission, West Bengal”. No appli 
"St-ion will be considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application fee. 

Candidates abroad may deposit their application fees 
with the High Commissioner of India or the Embassy . a* 
the caee may be, and obtain receipts for the same, which 
will have to be attached to tbeir applications to he «uk- 
ci> it ted to the CommisskiB. 


190 


THE CALCUTTA QAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


M'wr Ji 


Candida ten in Government service should make sure 
before depositing fee that their applications will be forward- 
ed by tbeir superior officers. In no case will the fee pan 
with the application be refunded. 


The Commission may remit fee in case of genuine 
indigent and bona tide displaced person from Pakistan. 


An indigent displaced person shall, in the first instance, 
pay the application fee prescribed for a gazetted poet 
advertised by the Commission but if he /she is selected for 
and appears at tbe interview, the fee paid by him/her will 
be refunded afterwards. 

Hots. — “(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, e.g , 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original. 

(ii) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his appli- 
cation a certificate in original from a gazetted officer or a 
Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging to 
the Scheduled C'aeto or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste 411 tribe to which he claims to belong. 

( 111 ) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion fee must furnish besides the evidence required under 
Note ( 1 ) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or » Member of Parliament or 
State legislature to show that he is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.** 

(4) Addraaa. — Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 

(5) Canvassing.- Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
I arsons interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will be disregarded. 


(0) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under atiy Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation), in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 

Candidates serving under Government or a local or 
Statutory Body should submit an advance copy in the pres- 
cribed form. The application fee should in such cases be 
attached t-o the advance copy and not to the original. The 
candidature of such applicants may not however be con- 
sidered if tbe original applications do not reach the Com- 
mission’s office within a fortnight from the closing date. 
Unless applications in original or advance copies with 
application fees are received within the closing date, late 
applications may be rejected. 


of an Indian University, in the required subject < v 
English, Economics or Geology, as the case may be) 2 ' 
Equivalent foreign qualifications ; (ii) Two years’ teachm 
experience in a College in the subject concerned ( v 
English, Economics or Geology, as the case m«v hi 
relaxable in the case of candidates possessing excentic 
ally high academic qualifications or having done significant 
research work; (in) Ability to lecture in Bengal 
Dsslrabls — Capacity for carrying on research work ni th#* 
case of candidates who do not possess a Doctorate degriJ 
Bpeoial condition — Willing participation in the coip,, r Jf A 
life of the College by taking part in games and sports 
and social activities and interest in the welfare o| 
students. Ag6:- Not more than 35 years on tlie | s j 
1962, relaxable in the case of candidates possessing exeen 
tionallv high qualifications wnd for persons holding suh 
stantive appointment in the Education Department, West 
Bengal . 

(d) One Assistant Research Officer (Soil Mechanics) in 
the River Research Institute, West Bengal in the Wut 
Bengal General Service. Post temporary. Pay*... Rs. *27; 1 
— 15-350 — 20 — 650 (E.B. after 8th and Kith stages^ pp r 
month. Higher initial pay up to Rs. 450 may be granted 
on the basis of qualifications and experience. A “Special 
Compensatory Allowance” at 20 j>er cent, of the basic pai 
plus a “Tentage Allowance’’ at Rs. 20 per month, will bn 
allowed to the incumbent if he is required to work in the 
Sundaibans area south of Dampier Hodge’s Line. 

Qualifications: — A degree in Civil Engineering or itK 
equivalent, Or A Doctorate degree or an M.Sc. degree 
with a<t least a second class Honours degree, in anv 
branch ol Physics or Chemistry. Age: — Ordinarily nrH 
more than 27 years on the 1st May 1962. 

(e) One Lecturer In Economics In the West Bengal 
Junior Educational Service. Post permanent Women 
unsuitable. Pay: — Rs. 275 —15 — 350— 20 — 650 (E.B nft«r 
Rth and 16th stages) per month. Higher initial pav up 
to Rs. 550 may he granted on the basis ol qualification* 
and experience. 

Qualifications: Essential— A first, class Master’s degree 
Or, A second class Master’s degree with first, class Honour 
111 the Bachelor’s degree. Or, A Doctorate degree with » 
first class Honours or second (‘lass Master’s degree, oi an 
India*! University, in Economics; 

Or, 

Equivalent, foreign qualifications , 


Or, 


If a candidate has otherwise a good academic record, n 
seer/nd class Mastei’s degree with second class Honours in 
the Bachelor's degree m Economics plus five years’ teach 
ing experience in a recognised College as a wholctimp 

teachei in the subject. The period of teaching experience 
may be relaxed at the discretion of the Commission. 


A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Alipore, the 27th January 198i. 


Advertisement No. U 

APPLICATIONS are invited from Indian citizens for the 
folh/wing jmsts — 

(a) One Assistant Protestor of Humanities (English), 

(M One Assistant Professor of Eoonomlcs, 

(e) One Assistant Professor of Geology, 

in the West Bengal Educational Berviee. Posts permanent. 
Women unsuitable. Payi — Rs. 525 — 30— 475 — 35 — 1,000 
(E.B. after 8th and 16th stages) per month. Higher 
initial pay up t(/ Rs. 175 may he granted on the basis of 
qualifications and experience. 

Qualifications: Essential— .(j) a first class Master’s 
degree, Or, A second class Master’s degree with first class 
Honours in the Bachelor’s degree, Or, A Doctorate degree 
with second class Master’s or firat dais Honours degree, 


Desirable-- Good power oi expression in Bengali spoken 
and written Special Condition —Willing participation m 
the corpora-to life of the (’ollcge by taking part in game 1 - 
and sports and social activities and interest, in the welfare 
of the students. Age: —Not, more than -15 yeais on thr 
1st, May 1962. relaxable in the case of specially qualified 
candidates and for |iersons holding substantive appoint 
ment in the Education Department, West Bengal. 

(f) Two Research Officers under the State Editor, Wesl 
Bengal District Gazetteers. Pr/st, temporary. Pay:- 
Rs. 250—15—550 (E.B. after 8th and 16th stages) P«> 
month plus house rent allowance %s admissible under the 
rules. 

Qualifications: Essential — At least a second da&i 

Master's or Honours degree. Desirable '-Experience ol 
lesearch or experience in field investigation. Ages-Nd 
more than 25 yeais on the 1st May 1962, rolaxaible for a* 
otherwise well-qualified candidate. 

Age Conoesslon 

The age limit for all the poBts is relaxable by five \ear< 
tor Scheduled Castes /Tribes and up to 45 years tor dis- 
placed persons from PakistMt, 


pA*r W] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3. 1962 


»I 


A cemfcdate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
Retained imprisoned, interned, or externea on account of 
his / her activities in connection with country’s struggle 
for independence, not. being convicted of an offence indicat- 
ing moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession in 
i expect of the age limit. Tbo concession granted will be 
equal to the exact period of detention, imprisonment, 
internment or externment suffered up to a maximum or 
four years. 

Apply to Secretary with a Treasury Chalan of Rs. 5 
under bead “XXI — Miscellaneous -Receipts of Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal”, or a Crossed Postal 
Of* ter of Rs. 5 payable to “Secretary, Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal”. Overseas candidates may 
deposit their application fees with the High Commission 
of India ot the Indian Embassy, as the case may be. 
Particulars and prescribed application forms are obtainable 
from the office of the Commission. Anderson House (ground 
tjem ) . Alipi/re, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a 
.self- addressed envelo|>e (size 10" xO") with postage stamp 
of .‘l") iiP. and the name of the post superscribed on the 
envelope. Those who intend to take application forms 
jHiiCor submit the applications |»ersonally, should do so 
between 10-15 a.m. and .*UX) p.m. on full working days and 
between 10-15 a.m. and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 

Closing date— The lath May 1962. 

A. 0. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 
Mipore. the 17th April 1962. 


ORDER OF ADJUDICATION 

[Section 27 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, V of 1920.] 

IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUBORDINATE JUDGE 
AT ALIPORE 

Insolvency Application No. 22 of 1001 

PURSUANT to a petition, dated 27th May 1961, filed by 
Sbri Jumkii Bahadur of 531 Paharpur Road, |H>lice-station 
Ramiiugar, district 24-Parganas, and on the application 
ot the debtor himself and on reading the application ot 
the debtor and hearing his lawyer it is ordered that the 
debtor be and the said debtor is hereby adjudged insolvent. 

It is further ordered that the debtor do apply for hie 
discharge at ter 1st April 1968. 

Dated this 18th day ot April 1962. 

N. (t. CHAUDHURI, Buh-Judge. 

( 898 - 1 ) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
M-PARGAN AS 


Advertisement No. 25 


Itiitfvenoy Case No. 7 of 1962. 


APPLICATIONS are invited from Indian citizens for six 
temporary vacancies m the West Bengal Subordinate 
Veterinary 8ervice t Class I. One of the vacancies is 

i evolved tor Scheduled Caste candidate. Pay: — Rs. 250— 

15 550 fE.R after tenth stage) per month. 

Qualifications: — (i) A degree iii Veterinary Science of a 
recognised University. (ii) Knowledge of Bengali - spoken 
;-nd written, except in the case of tollmen who shall have 
knowledge r/f Nepali — spoken and written. Age: — Not more 
than 2K years on the 1st January 1962. 

Hie age limit is rebixnhle bv live years for Scheduled 

Rstes /Tribes and up to 45 years for displaced persons 
♦rntn Pakistan. 


A. J. Peters oi 19 Sambhudas Lane, Bowbazar. Calcutta. 
Cl editor -Applicant . 

To R. A. Garnett ot 12 B Loco Quarters, Narkeldanga, 
N. E. Railway, Sealdah, Debtor. 

ON the 2nd day of April 1962 it wan ordered that the 
matt ci of the petition of the applicant be heard on the 
7th day ol Mn> 11 >62 and that the said applicant to attend 
to be examined bv this court on that date. 

Alipore, the 4th April 1962. 


N candidate who before the 15th August 1947, was 
jietiuned, imprisoned, interned, or e\ turned on account of 
"7 h#,r *«divilies in connection with country’s struggle fc/r 
tnrteprmlence riot being convicted of an offence indicating 
n !" , jl urpit nde, shall be entitled to a concession in respect 
the age limit The concession granted will be equal to 
‘ ,,N,lrt Priori ot detention, imprisonment, internment or 
p Mermripnt suffered up to a maximum of four years. 


„„V’ ,,lv *" witli a Treasury Chalan nf Rs. 

n ly head \ Xl.-MiM-elbmcoiis — Receipts of f’lihli 

lirw'/i7' l r SS,0 "',, Wl ‘ Kl Honfjal’*, or «. Crossed Posta 
'I s •> 1>n.val>l<; to “Hoc rotary. Public Service Com 
fbpir ’ ^ f,S , - • Overseas candidates may deposi 

- - spLlicatum foes with the Hi K h Commission - of fndi 
/no Indian Embassy, as the case m»v be. Particular 
‘Application forms are obtainable, from ill. 
\ | ll% ^'unimission, Anderson House (ground floor) 

:, *lrtrc«j ’ i ;i ^ >n ^ n ~-7. Personally or on sending a self 
n p Srf ° f> ° (size 10" x6") with postage stamp o 

'’nvrlnm^Ti ° na 1 ,no . ol t] J 0 P ost Hiiperscribed on th« 
Mihmu 4 u nse X V!’° ,Mtonf1 f° take application forms and 
lf M:> . ‘be apphcat.r/ns personally, should do so betweoi 

10-ir, nn i Pm - on ^ wor ^*ug days and betweei 
* ' l ,n - *"d 12 30 p.m. on Saturdays. 

c, °*»ng date- The 26th May 1662. 


A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 
'Vr., the 25th April 1063. 


M REN GCPTA. District JudRc. 

( 350 — 1 ) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
I4-P ARGANA6 

Insolvency Gate No. 6 of 1962 


Shn Binial Kmnnr Ghnsli. residing at Bashirhivt-, Creditor- 
Applicant 

To Sbri Saroj Kumar Banerjee of Sir R. N Road, 
BaNhirhnt, Debtor. 


ON the 9th day of April 1962 it was ordered that the 
matter ot the petition of the applicant be beard on the 
1 4 tli dav ot May 1902 and that the eaid applicant to attend 
to be examined by this court on that date. 


Alipore, the 12th April 1962. 

S. SEN GUPTA, District Judge. 

( 399 — 1 ) 


m 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


[Part ii 



IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF .N THE COURT OF THE JUD «- 

24 -PARG AN AS 18T COURT, DHANBAD 


Insolvency Case No. 9 of 1982 

M tili'ii' ,n *'l I 'l :til ol 12/1/1 Kkbalporo La ne, police-station 
KkimlporB d.slii-t, 21-l’aritma., Debtor- Applicant 

To Boodhim o! ■< Hide Road. Cahiitta-2J, and ft others 

( 'roditurs. 

ON tin. Hull .lay of \pril IW it was r/rdered that the 
matter ot the petition of the applicant be heard on 21st, 
May 1962 and that the said applicant to attend to be 
examined by U ,,s on that. da*te . 

Ah pore, the 2-frd April 1962. 

S. SKV GUPTA, District Judge. 

(400—1) 


IN THE COURT OF DI8TRICT JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANA8 


insolvency Case No. 10 of 1062 

Nanda lad Kumar alias M. U. Kumar ot 28 H . Pottery Road, 
police stat »oti Kntallv, Dob tor- Applicant 

To Shri Mini Denude Kundii uf r> I) Hem Kar Lane, Shyam- 
pukm . ( 'a cut-ta- 1 , mu 1 6 oiliers, Creditors. 

ON the 23id day oi April 1962 it was ordered that the 
matter oi the petition of the applicant be heard on the 
2Hth day o| Ma v 1962 and that the said applieant to a-ttend 
to he examined by this court on that date. 

Ah pore, the 2M.li April 1962. 

S. SEN GUPTA. District Judge. 

( 41 1 — — 1 ) 


IN THF. COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
BIJRDWAN 


Insolvency Case No. 1 of 1992 


Ganga am 

Phil he i h 


* -Hhnliil.il ( 1957) Private To . Petitioner 
vet Nils 

( li.mdiii 1’iilit. Debtor Opposite Party 


IT ,s not did (or general mlormation that, the a-bovotiamed 
> rcdito'i pet II, oner oi Jnhuriba/.ar, Rurdwaii, police-station 
and distrr I Itordw an has filed the case against the debtor- 
opposite pint' Shri Hhahesh Chandra. I alit of Shyamlal 
Read (.lliaoanl da ■ Rurdwmi. poliee-statum and district 
Htirdwan. lor adiud",ing him an insolvent. Hie case is set 
down for hearing on the 121b Mav 1<M« Anybody interestwl 
in the unit tei now appear before this Court on the date 
fixed and take .tops as may he deemed necessary. 


I. B. BARMAN, District Judge. 


(394—1) 


Ml so. (Claim) Case No. 3 of 19 S 9 

The Fandra ( oal Syndicate having its office at 1 dive How 
Calcutta, Claimant 

versus 

The Mate of Bihar and others, Opposite Party 

In 11(a) Khri Bika.sh Kamal Banerjee, son ot late Khth a 
Charan Banerjee, 11(c) Mrs. Mira Mukherjee. w/o. 
Ashutosh Mukherjee, 11(d) Mrs. Bela Mukherjee, w/o 
Doha Pm a Mukherjee, 11(e) Miss Ira Banerjee, 
daughter of late Slnva Charan Banerjee, resident, of 
20 G aria ha I Road in tin* town oi Calcutta. 

WH KICK. VS the aforesaid Piundra Coal Syndicate has filed 
a claim case against you for payment of the sum of 
Rs. 1 ,09,7(55-9-8 pies due under a mortgage deed, dated 
4Ui May 1892, you are hereby informed that the Court 
has been pleased to fix the 5th Ma*y 1962 at 6-30 am 
for the hearing of the Haid claim case. If you fail to 
appear on the date fixed either personally or by a duly 
instructed lawyer the case will be hoard ex parte in your 
ii'bsmice. 


Given under my hand and the seal ol the Cc/urt tins the 
18th day ot April 1962. 


KAMLA PRASAD SINHA, 
Subordinate Judge, 1st Court, (Maims Officer. 


(395-1) 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 


Original Jurisdiction 


COMPANY PKTITlON No 61 OK 1962 
Tn the matter of Companies Act, 1956 

And 

in the matter ot A. T. Hm Private Ltd. 
NOTICE OK PKTITlON 

To Messis A T Hui Private Ltd., No. 37, S. R. Das Road, 
( abut fa 

\ PKTITlON umlei serin >» 139 of the Companies Act., 
1956 , Ini winding up nt the ahovemwned Company waR 
pM'sentefl on heh.nl oi Messrs. JutliHiam Jaukidas, a 
Crerlitoi oi I h» j aid Company, on the 20th day ol March 
1962 and the said Petition is fixed lor hearing hot ore the 
Company Judge on Monday’, the 14th da*y of May 19o^ 
Any person desirous of supporting or opposing the sain 
Petition should send to the Petitioner’s attorneys, notice 
,,f ins intention, signed by him or his advocate with nis 
name and address as to reach the Petitioner’s Attorneys 
not later than two days before the date fixed foi lieanng 
i*l the Petition. Whore he seeks to oppose the I etit.ion. 
the grounds ot opposition or m copy of his affidavit snail 
la* Punished with such notice. A copy oi the I etition 
will he furnished hv the undersigned to an\ person 
icquiring the same on payment of the prescribed charges 
tor the same 

Dated this 23rd day ot April 1962. 


P. D. HIMATSTNGKA & UO , 
Attr/rnoys for the Petitioner 
6 Old PoHt Office Street,, Oalontto. 

<M7 -1) 


Burdwan, the 18th April 1962. 


Pa**-#! 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


193 


aHANI MOHAN HAT C&AUDHTJRY, LL.B., intend* to 
be as on Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 310 — 4 > 


r-vM DAS CHATTERJEE, LL.B.. intends to be enrolled 
» an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

** ( 320 — 4 ) 


SHRl JITENDiRA CHANDRA SEN, intends to be 
en railed as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 321 - 4 ) 


KALI KUMAR CHAKRABART1, LL.B. ; intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 334 — 4 ) 


AilYYA KUMAR SARKAR, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
hi an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 335 - 4 ) 


i'RAYAW DAS DAGA, LL.B.. intends tg he enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 330 — 4 ) 


SHRl NUR ABDUL GONI, M.A LL.B., intends to be 
admitted as an Advocate in the High Court at Calcutta. 

( 337 - 4 ) 


8UMANAN1M MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B., intend* to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 388 - 4 ) 


841UHKNDRA NATH BA8U, B.L., intends to be enrolled 
n Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 338 — 4 ) 


AdviiP^ ^TNDAR DHANUKA intends to be enrolled as an 
ate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 340 — 4 ) 


AH^RWAL intends to be enrolled as m 
*** of the Calcutta High Court. 

.(• 41 — 4 ) 


SHYAMa CHARAN GANGOPADHYAY, LL.B., intents 
to be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 3453 — 4 > 


GANKS CHANDRA BASU, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 353 - 4 ) 


SUNIL K1TMAR SEN, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
uii Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 354 — 4 ) 


BISWANATH BANDYOPADHYA Y, M.Com., LL.B., 
intends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court. 

( 355 - 4 ) 


SHY AM SIJNDAR PATODIA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 366 — 4 ) 


SITARAM SHAH, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(357 - 4 ) 


HUHAS CHANDRA BASU, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
us an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 368 — 4 ) 


PRABHAT KUMAR CHATTOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends 
to he enrolled as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

( 369 — 4 ) 


SANTISEKH AR MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 360 - 4 ) 


HARINARAYAN PANDEY, LL.B., intends to he enrolled 
as mi Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 361 - 4 ) 


SHRI RABIN DR A NATH GHOSH, B.L., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Oulcutta High Court. 

( 362 — 4 ) 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 3, 1962 


i^*RT II 


I 11 1 


SATYARANJAN SEN, LL.B., intends to 
hr an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


be enrolled 
( 368 — 4 ) 


JY0TIKA10Y DATTA GUPTA, M.A., LL.B., intends t 0 u 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(402 —4) 


KAMWULAS GUSWAMI LL.B intends 
ah an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


to be enrolled 
(369-4) 


RANEN MITR'A, LL.B., intends to be enrolled a s an 
Advocate of the Calcutta Higli Court. 

mi -A) 


l HUA I AR SINGH H1RAWAT, LL.B., intends to be 
eni oiled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 


( 370 - 4 ) 


B1SWANATH KHANDELWAL, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 

(404-4) 


(JOBAL CHANDRA 
to In- enrolled as an 


MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B., intend* 
of the Calcutta High Court. 


(371 — 4) 


SUDH1NDRA CHANDRA SARKAR, LL.B., intends to l* 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 

(405 -4) 


SHRl III OKS HI RAM. LL.B., intends to 
Advocate ol Calcutta H ir.Ii Court. 


be enrolled as an 
(372-4) 


CH1TTARAN.JAN DAS LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

MOfi 4) 


SHlll 
III 1 4*11*1'- 


.ASANKA SEK11AR MUKHER.TEE 
t,o be e li lolled as an Advocate, ( at. 


1, M.A., B.L., 

High CouTt. 
(373-4) 


B1SWANATH KEDIA, LL.B., intends to he enrolled a- an 
Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(407 -4 1 


SAUL KUMAR KAR, LL.B , intend* to 
urn Ailvocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


be enrolled as 
(384-4) 


R ADH AKRISIIN A AUAKWALA, LL.B., intends ti, t» 
enrolled a*' an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 

(40H- 4 


MB MYTIAB RAHMAN TAR AKPAR LL.B., intends to 
I),' fin illi'd as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 


(386- 4) 


BAJR'ANd PRASAD DALM1A, LL.B , intends to lie pu 
lolled as an Advocate i/I the Calcutta High Court. 

(40H- ! 


-JHf.o UIANKAR SINGH, LL.B , intend* to 
a an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 


be enrolled 
(386 — 4) 


BIMAL CHANDRA GHOSH, LL.B., intends to he euiull 
ed as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(•lift- 4 


HUPKUMAft RAY, LL.B .intends to 
\ urate ol the Calcutta High Court. 


be enrolled as an 
(387 — 4) 


MOHAN LAL VARMA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled a 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(412 — 4 


K \L1D AS 
4 it l oiled ins 


HHATTAt H.4RYYA, LL.B., intends to be 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(388-4) 


GITA NATH GANGOPADHYAY, M.A., I.L.B . intend* t 
be enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High ('unit 

(413 4 


coai SA9ANKA BHUSAN GHOSH, LL.B, intends to 
ta^ciirolled as aii Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(392—4) 


AM A Lit ANTI SARKAH. M.A., LL.B., intends to be ei 
Milled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(414 4 


<HRI HYAMA PKASANNA RAY CHAUDHTJRY, LL.B., 
intends to be enrolled ae an Advocate, Cal. High Court. ^ 


SATYENDRA NATH MA.TUMDEK. B.L., intends tob 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Higb Court at Calcu 


Pa$T II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. MAY 3, 1962 


195 


PUBLIC NOTICE 

NATIONAL 8AVINQ8 ORGANISATION, WEST BENGAL 

tt it* notified lor general information that certificate of 
Authority No. WBP 922, dated 10th March 1964, issued 
in favour of Shri Nirmal Chandra Ganguli of 22 Gopal 
Baneiji Street. Calcutta-26 has been lost by him and the 
Government of India would no longer be liable for claims 
arismg out ol transactions through this lost Certificate ot 
Authority 

D. C. BANERJ EE, 

Deputy Regional National Savings Officer, 
West Bengal. 


PUBLIC NOTICE 

NATIONAL 8AVING8 ORGANISATION, WE8T BENGAL 

IT is notified for general information that the Receipt Book 
So. 19096 of Rs. 50 denoinination (National Plan Sayings 
( 'ertificate ) issued from this officii to Shri Jay Krishna 
( 'batter jee, an Internal Agent, Certificate of Authority 
No. 12805 has been lost from his custody and the Gov- 
ernment of India wtmld not be liable for claims arising out 
ut transactions made through the lost Receipt Book 
mentioned above. 

Bated the 28rd April 1962. 

D. C. BANERJEE, 

Deputy Regional National Savings Officer, 
West Bengal. 


PIT BMC NOTICE 

NATIONAL SAVINGS ORGANISATION, WE8T BENGAL 

IT is notified lor general information that the Receipt Book 
N„ V2I87 ol Us. 5 denomination (National Plan Savings 
Certificate) issued Ironi tins office to Shri Naresh Chandra 
liuse, an Internal Agent, Certificate of Authority No. 1928, 
lius been lost from Ins custody and the Government ol 
India would not he liable lor claims arising out of transac- 
tions made thiough the lost. Receipt Book mentioned above. 

Dated the 28rd April 1962. 

D. O. BANERJEE, 

Deputy Regional National Saviugs Officer, 
West Bengal. 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, IMS 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF NATIONAL VANADIUM TRU8T 
PRIVATE LIMITED 

Members 1 Voluntary winding up 

NOTICE OF RESOLUTION UNDER SECTION 486 

AT an Extraoi dinary General Meeting of the National 
Vanadium Trust Private Ltd., duly convened and held at 
ds Registered Office, No 7, Wellesley Place, Calcutta, on 
Friday, the 27th April 1962, the iollowing special resolu- 
tions were passed: — 

That the company be wound up voluntarily as a 
Members’ Voluntary Liquidation and that Sardar Ajaib 
^ingh ol Tatanngar and Mr. C. G. Soiniah of Mayur- 
lihari| he and they are hereby appointed Liquidators for 
I lie purpose of such winding up with joint and several 
bowers and that they be remunerated by a fee of Re. 1 
l>cr annum to he divided amongst them equally and that 
■ v »ich fee be paid out of the assets of the company. 

u 1NDRA SINGH, Chairman. 

Registered Office: 

7 Wellesley Place, Calcutta-1. 

u »ted the 27th April 1962. 

1(417-1) 


IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT. 18S# 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF ME88R8. BIYANI AND COMPANY 
LIMITED (IN CREDITOR8 VOLUNTARY WINDING UP) 

NOTICE is hereby given in persuaiice of section 609 that 
a general meeting of the members and a meeting of the 
Creditors of the abovenamed Company will be held at 
20 British Indian Street Calcutta-1, in the office of Messro. 
Salarpuria, Jajodin & Co., Chartered Accountants, on 
Thursday, the 81st May 1962 at 8 p.in. and 4 p.m,, res- 
pectively for the purpose oi having an account laid before 
them, showing the manner in which the winding up has 
been conducted and the property of the Company has been 
disposed of and of hearing any explanation that may be 
given by the liquidator and also of determining by a special 
resolution of the Company, the manner in which the books, 
accounts and documents of the Company and of the 
liquidator shall be disposed of. 

20 British Indian Street, Calcutta-1. 

Dated the 24th April 1962. 

R. P. SALARPIJRIA, Liquidator. 

(418—1) 

IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, 1958 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF EA8TERN PUBLISHERS SYNDI- 
CATE PR. LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION) 

Notice Convening Final Meeting 

NOTICE is hereby given jn pursuance oi section 497 that 
a General Meeting of the Members of the abovenamed 
Company will he held at 7 Hastings Street, Calcutta, on 
1st June 1962, at 6 p.m. for the purpose of having an 
account laid before them shc/wing the manner in which 
the winding up has been conducted and the property of 
the Company disposed of and of hearing any explanation 
that, may he given by the Liquidator and also of determin- 
ing by a Special Resolution by the members, the manner 
hi which the books ot accounts and documents of the 
Company ami ol the Liquidator shall be disposed of. 

R. C. MAJITMDER, Liquidator. 
Dated this, the 28rd day of April 1962. 

(896—1) 


NOTICE OF APPOINTMENT OF LIQUIDATOR 
(Pursuant to 8eotkm 516) 

Name ot the Company — Steel <fe Stores Private Limited 
(In Liquidation) 

Presented by- K. P. Sural. 

To the Registrar of Companies, West Bengal, Calcutta. 

I, K. P. SARVE, B.Coin., A.C.A., of 62 Nabni Sett Road, 
Calcutta- 7, hereby give notice that. | have been appointed 
liqmdatoi oi Messrs. Steel & Stores (P.) Ltd. (Iu Liquida- 
tion) by Special Resolution passed in the Extraordinary 
General Meeting of the Company held on the 2Wt.li March 
1962. 

K. P. SARAK, Liquidator. 

(401—1) 

LOST 

THE Government Promissory Notes Nos. CA202779, 
CA192849, CA202780 of Urn three per cent, conversion loan 
ot J916 tor Rs 1,000 each originally standing in the name 
of Nisahati Debi and Maya Debi either of them, the 
proprietresses bv whom they were never endorsed to any 
other person, having been lost, notice is hereby given that 
payment ot the above m/tes und the interest, thereupon 
have been stopped at the Public Debt Office, Reserve Bank 
ot India, Calcutta, and that, application is about to be 
made for the issue ol duplicates in favour of Maya Debi 
the surviving proprietress. The public are cautioned 
against purchasing or otherwise dealing with the above- 
mentioned securities. 

MAYA DEBI, 

1/82 /J Prince Golam Mohammed Road, 
Calcutta-26. 

X415 — 3). 



Rtgistewd No. C207 



(Eakutta 







VAISAKHA 20 J 


THURSDAY, MAY 10, 1962 


[ SAKA 1884 


PART IA— Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India; and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 
and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India’* are only 
republished. 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962. 

No. 82 / 140/62. — In pursuance ol the provisions 
o! sub-section (I) of section 86 of the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission 
he i e by publishes a copy of the Election Petition 
No. 140 of 1962, presented to the Commission on the 
1 1th April 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, 
by Shri Amalendra Lai Roy, son of Shashi Lai Roy, 
K;indi, post office and police-station Kandi, district 
Murshidabad, West Bengal, calling in question the 
election to the Legislative Assembly of the State of 
West Bengal from the Kandi constituency of that 
Assembly of Kumar Jagadish Chandra Sinha, son of 
late Birendra Chandra Sinha, Kandi Rajbati, post 
nflice and police-station Kandi, district Murshidabad, 
West Bengal. 


Election Petition No. 140 of 1962 

1,1 'Mir. ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA, 

1 Auranj’zeb Road, 

New Delhi. 

h the matter of an election petition under the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 (Act 
43 of 1951) 

And 

,n the matter of calling into the question the Election 
held in February 1962 for filling a seat in the 
West Bengal Legislative Assembly from 50- 
Kandi Assembly Constituency and declaring the 
election of Kumar Jagadish Chandra Sinha as 
the returned candidate from the said 

Constituency to be void and further declaring 
lhiu Amalendra Lai Roy has been duly 


elected to fill the seat in the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from 50 Kandi Assembly 
Constituency 

And 

In the matter of Amalendra Lai Roy, son of Shashi 
Lai Roy, of Kandi, post office and police-station 
Kandi, district Murshidabad, West Bengal, 
Petitioner. 

versus 

Kumar Jagadish Chandra Sinha, son of late Birendra 
C handra Sinha, of Kandi Rajbati, post office and 
police-station Kandi, district Murshidabad, West 
Bengal, Respondent. 

The humble petition ol the aforesaid 

petitioner, 

Most respectfully sheweth: 

(1) That your petitioner is a voter in the 50— 
Kandi Assembly Constituency and his name 
appears in the Electoral Roll maintained for the said 
50 Kandi Assembly Constituency in Part 60, Serial 
No. 8, as finally published and that your petitioner 
offered himself as a candidate for election to fill a 
seat in the West Bengal Legislative Assembly from 
the said Constituency held on 20th February 1962. 

(2) That the aforesaid respondent also offeied 
himself as a candidate for a seat in the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the same Constituency 
and was illegally declared as duly elected to fill the 
seat in the above Constituency by Shri N. K. Saha, 
Returning Officer of the said Constituency, on the 
27th of February 1962. 

(3) That on the 27th of February 1962 the date 
appointed for the counting of votes in the said 50 — 
Kandi Assembly Constituency, after the completion 
of the counting of votes polled by this petitioner 
and the abovenamed respondent, the aforesaid 


74 


fPART l A 


THE CALCUTTA (iAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 

ie== 

' vl ' 

Returning Officer recorded in the Result-sheet in 20 minutes (i.e., from 9 a.m. to 3-20 p.m.) V erv 

Form 20, the total number of votes polled by each hurriedly without giving this petitioner and his 

candidate and announced the same, after which counting agents sufficient opportunities of following 

Shri Suhas Das, election agent of this petitioner, the scrutiny and rejection of ballot papers and 

applied in writing to the said Returning Officer for > reception and counting of valid ballot papers and 
a recount of all the ballot papers already counted, without leaving any time and scope for making 

stating the grounds on which he demanded such objections regarding irregularities and illegality 

recount (certified copy of the petition is filed here- committed during the very hurried procedure „] 

with marked as Annexure A). counting. 


(4) That the said Returning Officer illegally 
rejected the prayer for recounting made at the 
appropriate time as required by rule 63(3) of the 
Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, on grounds Which 
are bad both in facts as well as in law and assigned 
such reasons for this rejection which contravene the 
provisions of rule 63 of the Conduct of Election 
Rules, 1961, which deal with the “Recount of 
Votes”. 

That rule 63(1) of the Conduct of Election Rules, 
1961, clearly lays down that a candidate or his 
election agent may apply in writiag for a recount of 
all or any of the ballot papers already counted only 
alter the completion of counting and the announce- 
ment ol the total number ol votes polled by each 
candidate by the Returning Officer and that the 
prayer of the election agent of this petitioner for 
recount was made in accordance with the provisions 
of the relevant rule. 

That neither the Representation of the People Act, 
1931, nor the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, gives 
to any candidate, or his Election Agent, or counting 
agents any right or scope to raise any objection 
about the results of counting, or to demand a recount 
of all or any of the ballot papers already counted, at 
any earlier stage ol counting of the ballot papers in 
any election, for any Assembly or Parliamentary 
Constituency before the completion of the counting 
ol votes recorded in all the ballot papers, the 
recording in the result-sheet in Form 20 of the total 
number of votes polled by each candidate and the 
announcement of the same by the Returning Officer. 

That the failure of this petitioner and his election 
agent to raise any objection at earlier stages of 
counting on the 27th of February 1962, the appointed 
date lor counting of votes for the said 30 kandi 
Assembly Constituency, and the fact that the 
application for recount was made on that date by 
the election agent of this petitioner only alter the 
completion of the counting. of all the ballot papers 
and announcements of the aggregated total of votes 
polled by each candidate, were assigned by the 
Returning Officer as the reasons for finding the 
prayer for recount as being unreasonable. 

(A certified copy of the order passed by the 
Returning Officer on the application of Shri 
Suhas Das, Election Agent of this petitioner, 
on 27th February 1962 at 4-1 > p.m. is attached 
herewith marked as Annexure B.) 

(3) That the counting of votes for the said 30 
Kandi Assembly Constituency started at 9 a.m. on 
27th February 1962 and was completed at about 
3-20 p.m. That 42,746 ballot papers (.including 
42,614 votes recorded at polling stations and 132 
ballot papers sent by post) were scrutinised and 
counted within a very short period of six hours and 


(6) That the ketuhiing Officer erred in law m 
following the procedure laid down in rule 36A oj tho 
Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, which is applicable 
only to the scrutiny and rejection of ballot papers m 
the counting of votes at notified polling stations 
under rule 39 of the said Rules, but is not applicable 
to the scrutiny and rejection of ballot papers in the 
present case. 

(7) That the procedure adopted by the Returmno 
Officer resulted in the improper reception, refusal or 
rejection of votes and reception of votes which art- 
void, materially affecting the result of the election 

1 hat it the votes are recounted and the validity 
of ballot papers is scrutinised legally and property 
this petitioner will be found to have secured greatei 
number of votes than the abovementioned respondeni 
and will be found to have been duly elected in hi 
the seat in the kandi Assembly Constituency. 

(8) That excluding the postal ballot papers tlm 
petitioner is recorded to have polled 20,286 votes mui 
the respondent 20,297 votes and there was thus j 
difference of very small margin of votes numberimi 
only 11 (eleven) between this petitioner and thu 
respondent in respect ol votes recorded at pollmc 
stations. That the observation made by the 

Returning Officer “ The margin between the 

candidates is not narrow inasmuch as there e, . 

difference of 94 votes ” is not substantial!) 

correct, because the number ol votes recorded 
postal ballots as well as the recorded outj! 
difference ol 94 votes between the petitioner and tin 
respondent is only a fractional percentage ol th< 
total number ot votes polled. 

(9) That after the rejection of the prayei o 
recount and ’the passing of his order onjt ai 
4-13 p.m. the said Returning Officer completed atu 
signed the Final Result-sheet in Form 20 and there 
after illegally declared the abovementioned responds 
as duly elected to fill the scat in the West BenuJ 
Legislative Assembly from the 30- Kandi Assembl’ 
Constituency. 

(A certified copy ol the declaration of elect io 
to the West Bengal Legislative Assemhh 
30 Kandi Assembly Constituency, is 
herewith marked as Annexure C.) 

(10) That the voting in the election lor th 
30 Kandi Assembly Constituency was very close a 
between this petitioner and the respondent inasnuid 
as the respondent is recorded to have won by a vcr J 
narrow margin of votes and that there arc ns se 
forth above good grounds to believe that tn 
counting of the ballot papers was not in order ^ 
that the final figures as noted by the Returnin 
Officer have been affected by miscount on his pa 
and that it is therefore highly desirable to have 
recount in this case for the ends of justice. 



Part TA] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


75 


(ID That the abovenamed respondent fought the 
election in the 50— Kandi Assembly Constituency 
as a Congress candidate with “Two bullocks with 
yoke on” as his election symbol. 

That this petitioner fought the election in the same 
Constituency as a candidate sponsored by the 
Revolutionary Socialist Party, known in abbreviation 
as K.S.P.» with “Spade and Stoker” as his election 
symbol. He is also the Secretary to the Murshidabad 
ihstrict Committee of R.S.P. 

(12) That the respondent filed 4 (lour) nomination 
papers one of which was proposed by Shri Madan 
Sin ha, a resident of Kandi, one of the Secretaries of 
the Murshidabad District Congress Committee, and 
j prominent leader of Kandi Congress, as also the 
editor of the Weekly newspaper “Amader Patrika" 

published from Kandi having 
considerable circulation in the Kandi Assembly 
Constituency. 

That the said Madan Sinha is not only a member 
ot the Congress organisation in Kandi, he was as 
such very intimately and actively connected with the 
conduct of the election campaign of the respondent 
and with the carrying on propaganda in the 50 - 
k.iiuli Assembly Constituency, for furthering the 
hitter’s election prospects and candidature and 
against the candidature of this petitioner and against 
his partv, the Revolutionary Socialist Party, i.e., 
R.S.P. 

I hat the said Madan Sinha canvassed votes on 
behalf o I the Respondent and published propaganda 
materials in favour of his candidature through the 
said Weekly paper “Amader Patrika” 

(13) That at page 3 of the said “Amader 
Patiika”, dated 24th Magh 1368 B.S., corresponding 
to 7th February 1962, the following publication was 
made bv the aforesaid Madan Sinha with the consent 
of the respondent, viz.: — 

'Brrc-jpr-to* pr rsi# tor r ? 

ei^r- c-sifta 

pi prs% rs *tto *nf$' Cto 

sras c t' s M rrir sT^rr rpj r, 

■rr-ir, (to TOnfcd mdS* raer »ito 
toi i •«rra-v£i>r--H' toR ^ 4<iP5 to r i 
iWeRM" 4R< '©tar aitoi sr^© va ^ 

5W I 

__ nrTif ®rsr^?j erca 'rrcfhi Sw 

Storai tto?i aswR *n;®R asm Spsrh 

- RR 5PIPH sr»RR, 3 aifO' RiErs Srif- 

• 'i csroran r, nsiRR at* 

tora rt 1 

RlVt il^-JUR R*SR JR I 4)5 SIRfSIR 

V< >TC«^T 'da '5RaPR PIR to I 
^wcrr; jjt da arto srrstjipr pto; pri sritr 

^Ra««rt raiciJa ana rrr stoics to?a rrfr 

^ 'R1 57R R I R;S?IT\ R-RHRTR PslS tol 

• I '-m PFPT OT-G5R JR^err 5R I 

4Rifa*rps ReiVtto 57« ajJi^to « 
sir ifisR sfsfafa toiw>R awRR *ite sreft 
^ r=isrr zncwi qfoo r wrdi 


RWl Stfa'&SI STTS 5FW 4R< R WRPi; 
to'ito s«nfn fsfa RJtnto rrtpr xif*sR®ra 
PfW to aiCR R I iRoRR, to'lto ^ 4|*ti 
ftoitR 5 R’ioT'w s«n s^^sjr to,yio Sa^R 

$13 *37 I 

*«spitr pr to ? 

ESltfR 

* * * 

♦ * * 

1 43 to *rz rf\> ^\m U*^ 

That the aforesaid publication constitutes an 
appeal by the said Madan Sinha with the consent of 
the respondent to vote lor the latter and to refrain 
from voting for this petitioner by a reference to 
“National Symbols” such as the “National Flag” for 
the furtherance of the prospects of the election of 
the respondent and for prejudicially affecting the 
election of this petitioner. As such it comes within 
the purview ol “Corrupt Practices” as defined in 
section 123(3) of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 (Act 43 of F951), and is therefore sufficient 
to make the election of the respondent void. 

That the aforesaid publication is also a statement 
of lad which is false and which the said Madan 
Sinha believes to be false and does not believe to 
be true, in relation to the personal character and 
conduct of this petitioner reaspnably calculated to 
prejudice the prospects of this petitioner’s election 
and comes with the purview of “Corrupt Practices” 
as defined in section 123(3) of the Representation of 
People Act, 1951 (Act 43 of 1951), and is as such 
sufficient to make the election of the respondent 
void. 

(14) That at the same page of the same paper in 
column I (bottom) the same person wrote under his 
own signature with the consent of the Respondent: 

fatoR SPTCR 

(bSI *f?&R *R) 

* * * 

* * * 

^I’Vr'kR'k < r<tCRRR 5^3 'WTSRI 31 fa I 

: rsr! snfa torn «n**n to OT3 >!r- sr to faar*® 
«pr cto ?*tr 5c®t r i 551ns w't’N 

RtfR«I STR^Q 'SRI Sptf T*rf’RTCS I stRW? RR 

toz© itoi r ct. ^i-iR C5rrc^?n 

pi 3PM4PP ^tte to etT'sj 

itosiRfJ?. pt t<u«ira vm': hirpr pt“i 

l £i«R'S tortoi. 'si? : re 7 2 toi ?fis?r,?s 

3R<I Rto WIRCR ^5l^S RRI 5U, to? 

r?ptt PtC*t rr nte to ?»rr rs ®rTsi r£. 

5i^jRT; 41 toil UTEf 4lfl RRf s NlfR‘<f c I 

O I WI'S I W ■RRRRI fR*RI W 4t?RIC5R 

PI, •*f?*RRP'5R PI Tito WRPI i>IR-4]R-T*t tRI Rxi^R 
j- i^inspR. ?Jtoi5PR n?i f^^RRsm ^ jr 
tSSTIRR 5W 'itfRI 4l£ 'r'R , ( ^l^FIROi iT© IC«1«f 

r? f.iR^ i bP R r;®^ 4it R4 aT'sa^® R'S?rra 

totoi f^rarrci * * * 

* 

* 


* 


♦ 

♦ 



70 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


tPART 14 


That this publication is a statement of fact, in 
relation to the personal character or conduct of this 
petitioner and his candidature, which is false and 
which the said Madan Sinha believes to be false and 
which he does not believe to be true, and has 
materially prejudiced the prospects of this petitioner’s 
election. 

That the said publication comes within the 
mischief of section 123(4) of the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951 (Act 43 of 1951). 

(15) That the persons named below whose names 
occur in the Electoral Roll for the 50 — Kandi 
Assembly Constituency as finally published were 
dead on the date of election (i.e., on 20th February 
1962) but false votes were recorded in their names: 

They are — 


Name of voters. 

Part No. of the 
Kleetural Roll. 

Serial No. in 
Kleetoral Roll. 

(1) 

Aflheda Bi 1 >i 

64 

68 

(2) 

Alok Bihi 

04 

09 

0) 

Ahmed Sheikh 

64 

89 

0) 

Alw\va Bihi 

64 

113 

<fi) 

Knat. Sheika 

64 

171 

<«) 

Nur Hurj Sheikh 

64 

515 

(7) 

Pane hu Sheikh 

64 

631 

<«) 

Bilal Sheikh 

64 

601 

m 

Mann Sheikh 

64 

710 

(10) 

Sayed Sheikh 

64 

870 

(ii) 

Hhyat. Sheikh 

64 

941 

(12) 

Amir Sheikh 

117 

94 

(IS) 

Jlaud Sheikh 

117 

325 

(14) 

A nima Muk her jee 

55 

7 

(15) 

Anwar Sheikh 

108 



and many others. 


That the result of the election in so far as it 
concerns the respondent as the returned candidate 
has also been materially affected by the reception of 
many other votes which were void under the 
Representation of the People Act, 1950 (Act 43 of 

1950) , Representation of the People Act, 1951 (Act 
43 of 1951), and Rules and Orders made thereunder. 

(16) That this petitioner begs to submit that the 
non-compliance with the provisions of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 (Act 43 of 

1951) , and Rules and Orders made thereunder, as 
set forth above, has materially affected the result of 
the election and has rendered the declaration made 
by the Returning Officer on 27th February 1962 
regarding the election of the respondent to fill the 
seat from Kandi Assembly Constituency illegal and 
void. 

(17) That this petitioner is enclosing herewith a 
Government Treasury Receipt showing that the 
deposit of Rs. 2,000 (Rupees two thousand only) has 
been duly made on 6th April 1962 by the petitioner 
in the Murshidabad Government Treasury, situated 
in Berhampore, in the district of Murshidabad, in 
favour of the Election Commission as security for 
costs of this petition. 


(18) That this petitioner is filing herewith an 
affidavit in support of the allegations of “Corrupt 
Practices” and the particulars thereof as required bv 
the proviso to section 83(1) of the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951 (Act 43 of 1951). 

(19) That this petitioner submits herewith two 
copies of this petition, one copy for the respondent 
as there is only one respondent mentioned in the 
petition and another copy for the use of the Election 
Commission, all attested by this petitioner unc^er his 
own signature to be true copies of this petition. 

(20) That in view of the facts and circumstances 
stated above this petitioner humbly prays for 

(i) appointing an Election Tribunal for hearing 

of this petition; 

(ii) fresh scrutiny and recounting of all ballot 

papers in accordance with the provisions of 
the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961; 

(iii) a declaration that the election of the above- 

named respondent is void; 

(iv) a further declaration that this petitioner has 

been duly elected as a member of the West 
Bengal Legislative Assembly from 50— Kandi 
Assembly Constituency at the election held 
in February 1962; 

(v) order of costs of the hearing of this petition 

against the respondent in favour of this 
petitioner; 

(vi) An order by the Election Commission and 

or by the Election Tribunal lor tlv 
preservation of the packets of unused ballot 
papers for the election held in 50 Kandi 
Assembly Constituency in February 1%.\ 
the packets of used ballot papers for the 
same Constituency whether valid, tendered 
or rejected, and all other papers connected 
with the said election in safe custody 
pending the final decision of this petition; 

(vii) such further and other orders as may be 

deemed necessary for the ends of justice in 
this case. 

And this petitioner, as in duty bound, shall ever 
pray. 

Verification 

I, Amalendra Lai Roy, the petitioner, residing at 
R.S.P. office, Kandi, post office and police-station 
Kandi, district Murshidabad, West Bengal, do herein 
declare that the statements contained in paragraphs 
1, 2, 3, 5, 9, 11, 12, 17, 18, 19 are true to niv 

knowledge and those in paragraph 15 are true to mv 
information and those in paragraphs 4, 6, 7, 8, Id. 
13, 14, 16 are true to my belief and those in para* 
graph 20 are my submissions. I sign and verify this 
on April 9, 1962, at Kandi, police-station and post 
office Kandi, district Murshidabad, West Bengal. 

AMALENDRA LAL ROY. 

The 9th April 1962. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


77 


MKT tA] 


New Delhi, the 4th May 1962. 

NOTIFICATION 

No 82/168/62. -In pursuance of the provisions of 
h section (1) of section 86 of the Representation of 
’People Act, 1951, the Flection Commission 

* by publishes a copy of the Flection Petition 
i, |68 of 1962, presented to the Commission on 

, jlfb April 1962, under section 81 of the said 
\ b V Shri Labanya Copal Ghatak, resident of 
ou/a'Gopalmath, police-station Ondal, post office 
Kdiia. district Burdwan, West Bengal, calling in 
stion the election to the Legislative Assembly of 
' s ta te of West Bengal from the Ausgram 
on^tituency of that Assembly of Shri Monoranjan 
| a k s j t resident of Debshala, post office Debshala, 
olicc-station Ausgram, district Burdwan. 

BEFORE the election commission, 

NEW DELHi 

„ the matter of an election petition under the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 

And 

n the matter of a purported Election for the 
Ausgram Legislative Assembly Constituency 
No. 229, Burdwan, West Bengal, held on 
February 18, 1962 

And 

n the matter of Labanya Copal Chatak, resident of 
mau/.a Copalmath, police-station Ondal, post 
oflice Oyaria, district Burdwan, West Bengal, 
petitioner 

versus 

Monoranjan Baksi, resident of Debshala, post 
office Debshala, police-station Ausgram, district 
Bmdwan. 

! Anuja Kumar Chattopadhyay, resident of Bon 
Nabagram, post office Bon Nabagram, police- 
station Ausgram, district Burdwan. 

1 Pcbranjan Sen, resident of down Burdwan, 
Pilkhana Coli, police-station and district 
Burdwan. 

I Niroda Prasad Mukhopadhyaya, resident of 

Souin, at present resident of Kanksa, police- 
station Kanksa, post oflice Pan agarh Bazar, 
district Burdwan, respondents. 

j The humble petition of the abovenamed 

petitioner 

Most respectfully sheweth: 

^ 1 bat your petitioner is a citizen of India and 

* person whose age was at all material times above 
^ years. Your petitioner is an elector as defined in 
^ction 2(e) of the Representation of the People Act, 

I ’ hereinafter referred to as “the said Act"), and 

01 ^as not subject to any of the disqualifications 
t.nt»oned in section 16 of the Representation of the 
Qu°lf ^ ct ’ Voui petitioner possesses all the 

j Plications necessary for membership of the State 
jVNdtive Assembly, prescribed by or . under the 
t nstimtion of India, or in law made by the 
F a niament. 


2. On February 18, 1962, the General Election of 
a Member of the State Legislature from Ausgram 
Legislative Assembly Constituency No. 22M in the 
district of Burdwan to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly was held. 

L The names of the abovenamed respondents 
were included iti the appropriate Electoral Rolls as 
electors. 

4. That your petitioner and the respondents 
Nos. I to 4 were the contesting candidates foi 
election to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly 
from the said Constituency in Burdwan. 

5. The symbols chosen by and allotted to your 
petitioner and the respondents under the Conduct of 
Election Rules, 1961, were as stated hereunder:- 

Your petitioner Two bullocks with yoke on. 

Respondent No. 1 — Bicycle. 

Respondent No. 2 -Scale. 

Respondent No. 3 — Lion. 

Respondent No. 4 -Flower. 

6. On February 25, 1962, the Returning Officer 
of the said Constituency declared the result of the 
said Election and returned the respondent No. 1 as 
duly elected. In the return of Election and the final 
result-sheet 8,700 valid votes were shown to have 
been polled in favour of the respondent No. 1; 6,337 
in favour of the respondent No. 2; 4,324 in favour 
of the respondent No. 3; 626 in favour of the 
respondent No. 4; and 8,131 in favour of your 
petitioner. The respondent No. 1 thus purported to 
secure 569 votes more than those cast in favour of 
your petitioner. 

7. Your petitioner states that the purported 
election of the respondent No. 1 is void and liable 
to be set aside inter-alia on the grounds that corrupt 
practices had been committed by him and/or his 
agent or agents or workers canvassing for him as 
also for improper rejection of votes, particulars of 
the said grounds are stated hereunder: 

Particulars 

I. That the respondent No. 1 in the furtherance 
of the prospects of his election caused publication 
in Damodar, a weekly journal having very wide 
circulation throughout the district of Burdwan, in its 
issue, dated January 5, 1961, the false allegation that 
the respondent No. 1 was well-known as "the leader 
of the goondas in Durgapur area", and by such false 
statement of fact, which the respondent No. 1 
believed to be false or did not believe to be true, 
relating to the personal character of your petitioner 
misled many voters in the said constituency and 
dissuaded them from voting in favour of your 
petitioner. An English translation of the relevant 
news item published in the said weekly paper is 
annexed hereto and marked "A". 

II. That for the furtherance of the prospects of 
his election the respondent No. 1 engaged one Abdul 
Kader Chaudhuri, a very influential Mahomedan 
gentleman of Suata within Ausgram police-station. 
The said Abdul Kader Chaudhuri was an active 
member of Indian National Congress in the district 
of Burdwan until about NoVember 1961* afief whicii 



78 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


fPAR T j 


he revolted against the said political organisation, 
and being expelled therefrom joined its opponent 
camp. He had been systematically appealing from 
about December 1961 until the date of polling and 
even on the date of polling to the Mahomedan 
electorate of the said Constituency to refrain from 
voting in favour of the respondent No. 1 on the 
ground that the Congress Party had been pursuing 
anti-Muslim policy, and working on communal basis, 
as only two or three Mohamedans had been 
nominated to contest the General Elections fmni 
Burdwan district in the last two general elections 
and in the instant election, namely, the Third General 
Election, it had nominated only one Mahomedan 
candidate, and that too in the person of a sitting 
Minister to contest from a general scat to the State 
Legislature from the district and had also set the 
reactionary forces working for the defeat of even 
that Mahomedan candidate. Such acts of the 
Congress, the said Abdul Kader Chaudhuri, stated 
in a big religious assembly of the Mahomedans held 
on or about January 14, 1962 at Suuta in honour of 
a Mohamedan Pir (religious preceptor) clearly 
amounted to expression ot ill-feeling and hatred on 
♦he part of the members of the Congress Party 
towards the Mahomedans in general. A specimen 
of such evil propaganda will appear from a letter 
written by the said person on behalf of the 
respondent No. 1. A true English rendering of the 
said letter is annexed hereto and marked “B”. By 
such false propaganda the Mahomedan electorate 
were induced not to vote for your petitioner who 
had been contesting the said election as a candidate 
supported and nominated by the Indian National 
Congress. The said Abdul Kader roused the com- 
munal feelings or sentiments of the Muslim voters 
ol the said Constituency against your petitioner bv 
systematically carrying on the false propaganda that 
tiie Congress was wedded to anti-Mahomcdan policy 
and programme and that the votes in favour of your 
petitioner would mean votes against Islam 
and result in danger to Islam. The said Abdul 
Kader Chaudhuri had proposed the name of the 
respondent No. I in the nomination paper submitted 
on behalf of the respondent No. 1, and was al^o one 
of his counting agents. As a result of such appeals 
rousing the communal feelings and religious senti- 
ments most of the Muslim electorate had been 
misled, and more particularly the Muslim electorate 
of villages Kanksa, Prayagpur, Kakora, Koucha, 
ILikona, Pubar, Shyamsundarpur, Suata, Kuata, 
Bishtupur, Bhuiara, Bhatkunda, Jamtara, and Pandu 
were induced to vote against your petitioner being 
carried away and influenced by communal feelings 
and religious sentiments for which the result of the 
said election had been materially affected. 


a candidate nominated by the Congress. Th 
Dr. Abdul Wahab was a prominent active sunn dl 
of the respondent No. 1. The respondent \ lc 
and/or his agents or workers or canvassers mjl' , 
or attempted to induce in the manner aforesaid n 
Muslim voters of the said Constituency to behV 1 
that they would be driven out of India to P ri k,, ( ° III. * V 
and so he was guilty of the corrupt piviii lc U 
undue influence, which interfered tlnnth/, 
indirectly, or in any event, attempted t.* 
with the fiee exercise of the light of \oim- ,,f 
Mohamedan voters of the said Const itueiuy 

In another meeting held on 4th febi u.u \ 
held at Panagarh Bazar on the local l ; ree p 1)n)df 
School ground in mauza Kanksa, the responden 
No. 1 himself delivered a speech in which he s ,<j< 
that the Indian National Congress Party had J\ c 
deliberately pursuing anti-Mahomedan pohc\, vsith 
view' to forcing them to leave India and to ^ ( 
Pakistan. By the said false allegation' r 
propaganda, many Mahomedan voters were induce 
on religious grounds to vote against your petitions 
for which the result of the said election had heei 
materially affected. 

IV. That on the daLe of election at the instanc 
of respondent No. 2, the Presiding Officer of [Join 
No. 229 38 at Bhatkunda, within police-sum 
Ausgram, actively assisted the respondent Nn 
being influenced by the latter, and the responden 
No. 1, by suggesting to the voters to put the nuri 
on the middle portion of the Ballot Papci, ,m 
specially pointing out with finger the symbol ot th 
respondent No. 2. The Polling Agent ol v.*o 
petitioner forthwith objected to the ntoicsn 
procedure systematically adopted by the vii- 
Presiding Officer, pretending to acquaint the illiniat 
voters with the procedure or mode of casting \ou- 
A petition was also filed before the said Presiding 
Officer protesting against the said procedure; and n 
English translation thereof is annexed hereto m 
marked “B (A)”. It may be mentioned heu m 
the symbol chosen by and allotted to your petitions 
appeared in the first column of the Ballot Kip. 
against his name, and so the Presiding Officei ot ill 
said Booth with the connivance of responden! 
Nos. I and 2 and/or their agents by adopting th 
contrivance as aforesaid induced or misled at M 
more than 130 illiterate voters to put the nuik i 
the second column of the Ballot Papci i 
telephonic message from the local post oflae . 
Mank.ir was sent during the polling hows l 
the District Magistrate of Burdwan, complain " 1 
about the said illegal acts of the said Piesuin 
Officer on the same day at about 1-30 pan. 


III. That on 14th January 1962, at Panagarh 

Bazar in the Free Primary School ground at a 

meeting of the Leftist Party as well as of the 
independent candidates, there was an assemblage of 
about 1,000 persons, most of whom were Muslims. 
In the said meeting it was openly declared by one of 
the speakers Dr. Abdul Wahab of Burdwan town 
that the Congress Party had declared that if the 
Muslim vdters would vote against the said party’s 
candidate in the ensuing election they would be 
driven out of India and sent to Pakistan. By making 
the said false propaganda the religious feelings and 
dissatisfaction of the Muslim voters of the said 
constituency has been roused against your petitioner, 


V. That in Booth No. 229/28 at Panagarh fla/ 
the Presiding Officer, being influenced by oi 
Prasanta Kumar Agasti, President, Kanksa Uni* 
Board, and a supporter and canvasser of 
respondent No. 1 started Polling after 8 ^ 
although many voters were waiting to record tjifl 
votes in favour of your petitioner from ben* 
7-30 a.m. The said polling station was also cM 
at 4 p.m., at least about half-an-hour before 
appointed time. More than 200 voters who 
arrived at the said Booth between 4 p.m. $ 
4-30 p.m. for voting in favour of your petitioners 
not allowed to enter within the Booth and to 
their votes. Written protests against such 
acts of the Presiding Officer done with the connive 



Pajit IA] 


TtlE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


79 


of respondent No. 1 and/or his agent had been 
made by a petition on behalf of your petitioner in 
writing by Shri Bcnoy Kumar Mukhopadhvaya but 
such petition was thrown away. Your petitioners' 
said supporter Shri Bcnoy Kumar Mukhopadhyaya 
was also driven away out of the Polling Booth on 
the threat of arrest or insult by the Police. As a 
ivsult of the said illegal acts the votes of about 
;no poisons who were expected to vote in favour of 
^ . >iu petitioner were not allowed to be recorded. 

VI. I hat in Polling Booth No. 229/11 at Kota 
the respondent No. 1 and/or his agents apprehending 
and or knowing that most of the voters of that 
polling station would vote for your petitioner took 
up a fighting and threatening attitude against your 
petitioner’s men, or workers and supporters and as 
a result thereof one Raman Nayar, an employee at 
Panagarh Military Reserve Base, engaged by the 
respondent No. 1 began to abuse filthily Shri Salyu- 
kinkar Mitra, a supporter and canvasser of your 
petitioner, and threatened other supporters ol your 
petitioner with all kinds of violence. The said 
Raman Nayar acted at the instance of or in 
connivance with the respondent No. 1. By reason 
oi the said acts of rowdysm and disorderly conduct 
on the part of the said Raman Nayar and other 
persons working for and on behali of the respondent 
No. I, a very large number of voters of the said 
area numbering about 200 who intended to support 
voui petitioner were scared away and could not and 
did not enter the Polling Booth although they came 
to exercise their electorate right. In the premises, 
the respondent No. 1 and/or his agents and workers 
.no guilty of the corrupt practice or undue influence 
inasmuch as he was responsible for threatening a 
large number of the electors, who were expected to 
support your petitioner with physical injury and 
thereby directly or indirectly interfered or attempted 
to interfere with the free exercise of the right of 
vote of the electorate at the said Polling Booth at 
Kota. Even after the polling the said Satyakinkar 
Mitra was stabbed on his leg by the said Raman 
Na\ar and his associates. 

VII. In another Polling Booth No. 229/12 at Kota 
there being no separate arrangement for the 
i voiding of votes of the male and female electors 
some persons, at the instance of the respondent 
No- 1 in a drunken state went inside the Polling 
Booth and created such an ugly situation that a 
huge number of female voters numbering about 75 
were scared away out of fear of violence. Three 
elderly ladies fainted for the rowdysm created by the 
drunken supporters of the respondent No 1. In 
f hc circumstances aforesaid many female voters who 
intended or were expected to cast votes in favour 

your petitioner could not record their votes blit 
hud to come away. 

VIII. That the respondent No. 2 and/or his 
'jupporters or agents carried on systematic appeal in 
Kota and Chandipur Danga to the Bagdis, Bauris, 
and Muchis, i.e., the people of the scheduled castes 
as also the Tribal people, who are all illiterates, 

elore and also within 24 hours preceding the polling 
jours to refrain from voting for the Congress 
anuidates. The said voters were entertained with 
oiintry liquor by the supporters of the respondent 
• h * ^ fhc instance of the latter, and were thereby 
a uced to vote in favour of the respondent No. 1, 


IX. The respondent No. 1 obtained assistance 
from the Government servants, that is, the Presiding 
Officers at Polling Booths No. 229/38 at Bhatkunda 
and No. 229 28 at Panagarh Bazar with whom he 
and or his agents were familiar from before, and 
committed acts amounting to corrupt practices as 
mentioned above. 


X Ilia* »uit of a total number <9 2,/00 i elected 
* otes, about 2,000 votes appeared to have been east 
in favour of youi petitioner but the said Ballot 
Papeis weie improperly rejected. 


XI. 1 hat as stated above if the voters of ihc 
said Polling Stations been allowed to exercise freely 
their electoral right your petitioner would ceitainlv 
have been elected and returned. The result of 
election has thus been materially affected by corrupt 
and illegal practices as also undue influence, and 
there was no free election. 


8. The Government treasury receipt showing 
deposit of Rs. 2,000 as security for costs of this 
petition is annexed hereto in original together with 
the five attested copies of this petition as icquiied 
under the rules. 

Your petitioner, therefore, prays that it be 
determined and declared that the respondent 
No. 1 Manoranjan Bakshi was not dulv 
elected or returned, that his election was void, 
and that your petitioner be declared to have 
been duly elected and returned. 


And your petitioner, as in duty bound, shall ever 
pray for it. 


VERIFICATION 

I, babanya Gopa! Ghatak, the petitioner above- 
named, do hereby declared that the statements made 
m paragraphs 1,2, 3, 4, 5, f>, 7(1) and 8 are all hue 
to my knowledge, those in 7(11) arc inhumations 
received from Manik Bancrjee of Chandipurdanga, 
th< )se in 7(111) aie informations received from Bhut- 
nath Panja of Panagargram and Brajadulal Khandai 
of Kalikapur, those in 7( I V) are informations received 
from Golum Mahboob Khan of Bhatkunda, those in 
7(V) are informations received from Benov Kumar 
Mukhopadhaya of Pan agar Bazar, those in 7( V I ) are 
informations received from Satya Kinkar Mitra of 
Chandipurdanga, those in 7( VI I ) are informations 
received from Sk. Azim of Kota, those in 7( V I II ) are 
informations received from Satya Mondal of Chaiuli- 
purdanga and Sk. Azim of Kola, those in 7(IX) are 
informations received from the said Golam Mahboob 
Khan and Bcnoy Kumar Mukhopadhyaya, and all 
believe by me to be true and those in paragiaphs 
7(X) and 7 (XI) are true to my belief. 


1 sign this verification at Gopalmath, police-station 
Ondal. district Burdwan, on April 7, l%2. 

LABAN YA GOPAL GHATAK 



80 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 19 62 


TPart ia 


“A” 

[Extract translated mto English from “ Damodar 
Patrika", dated 5th January 1962.] 

New Congress nominee for Ausgram Centre 

Paragraph: It is learnt that the Congress is 
giving nomination for the Ausgram Centre to a new 
congiessitc, Shri Labanya Ghatak of Durgapur in 
place of Shri Tarapada Chowdhury. The news 
published in “Datnodar” has come off to be partly 
true. Shri Ghatak is known to be a leader of the 
goondas of Purgapur area. At this centre, the Praja 
Socialist Party is understood to be supporting a 
locally popular young patriot, Shri Manoranjan 
Bakshi. 


Verification 

I, Labanya Gopal Ghatak, the petitioner do hereby 
declare that the above is an English translation of the 
news item in “Damodar”, dated January 5, 1962, 
referred to in paragraph 7(1) of my election petition 
and it is true to my knowledge. 

I sign this verification at Gopalmath, police-station 
Ondal, district Burdwan, on April 7, 1962. 

(Sd.) LABANYA GOPAL GHATAK. 
The 7th April 1962. 


“B” 

(Translated into English) 


Sucta, 

As Sulam Alakum P.O. Amrargaih, 

Burdwan. 

As a question may arise in your mind as to why 
1 left the Congress after remaining in it for these 
long days, 1 feci it necessary to explain the reasons. 

Firstly, in the first General Elections after the 
country became independent, the Congress gave 
nominations to three Muslims from the district of 
Burdwan. In the second General Elections, two 
Muslims were given nominations by the Congress. 
But in the impending General Elections, only one 
person has been given nomination and it was because 
he is a Minister. Even after that, lest he wins, 
another Congressman has been made to stand against 
him so as to get him defeated. To remain attached 
with such an anti-Muslim District Congress would 
be an inconsiderate act and hence, as a protest, I 
have resigned. 

Secondly, ail the Congress workers of Kanksa and 
Ausgram Police Stations demanded for giving 
Congress nomination for the Ausgram Constituency 
to any person from the Ausgram Centre; but 
unfortunately, that demand was neglected by the 
District Congress, and my protest against the same 
is the second reason of my leaving the Congress. 


You arc wise men and will consider the whole 
after with all your wisdom. 

Yours since rely, 
(Sd.) ABDUL KADLp 


Jonah Abdul Wahen Khah, 
Bhatkunda, 

P.O. Bhatkunda, 

Dist. Burdwan. 


Verification 

1, Labanya Gopal Ghatak, do hereby declare that 
the above is an English translation of the loiter 
referred to in paragraph 7(11) of the election petition 
and it is true to my information. 

I sign this verification at Gopalmath, police-station 
Ondal, district Burdwan, on April 7, 1962. 

LABANYA GOPAL GHATAK. 
The 7th April, 1962. 


“b (A r 

(Translated into English) 


To 


The Presiding Officer of Bhatkunda Booth, 
Ausgram police-station. 

Sir, 

It is my humble submission that after showing tli«' 
three symbols you are conspiratorily giving directions 
to the voters to stamp in between the symbols 
Without showing upon the symbols, by saying "in 
between the pictures”, the “Scale” is being meant 
At the directions of some of the local village-heads, 
you are being compelled to do so. 

By giving such directions, partiality on a wide 
scale is being made. 

No partiality has been shown - 

Illegible. 

18-2. 

1 therefore pray that orders may kindly be issued 
to stop such illegal polling. 

Yours obediently, 

(Sd.) GOLAM MAHBOOB KHAN 

The 18th February 1962. 

Verification 

I, Labanya Gopal Ghatak, do hereby dcclaie that 
the above is an English translation of the letter 
referred to in paragraph 7(IV) of the election petition 
and it is true to my information. 

I sign this verification at Gopalmath, police-slut ion 
Ondal, district Burdwan, on April 7, 1962. 


Most of the Congress workers of those two police- LABANYA G6 pAl GHATAK 

stations are trying their heart and soul to get Shri 

Manoranjati Bdkshi nominated ttftd elected. The 7th April 1962; 



>a*» JA:] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

NOTIFICATIONS 
New* Delhi-ll, tlie 6rd May 1962. 

No. WB-LA / l26/62( 16). - In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 89 of the 
Comluet of Elections Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies 
the name of the person shown in column 1 of the schedule below w ho having 
been a contesting candidate for the election to the West .Bengal Legislative 
Assembly from the constituency specified in column 2 thereof, at the election 
held in 1962 has, in accordance with tin* decision given today hy the 
Elect ion Commission undci sub-rule (4) of t lie said rule, failed to lodge any 
account o! his election expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months from the date oi the 
said decision: 

Schedule 

Name of contesting candidate. Name of constituency. 

1 2 


Shri Nazirul 11 ossa ini, 65 Alimuddin 
Street, Calcutta- 16. 


Tnltola. 

By Order, 

K. SETlli , Under Secy. 



New Delhi-11 , the 8rd May 1962. 

No. WB-LA /212/62/( 17).— In pursuance ol sub-rule (5) of rule 89 oi the 
Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961, the Licet ion Commission hereby noli lie *< 
the name of the person shown in column 1 ol the schedule below who having 
been a. contesting candidate lor the election to the West .Bengal Legislative 
Assembly I rom the constituency specified in column. 2 thereof, at tin* election 
held in 1962 has, in nccoi dunce with the decision given today hy the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (-1) of the said rule, failed to lodge any 
account ol his election expenses and vv'ill accordingly heroine subject to the 
disqualification under clause {< ) of section 7 of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, on the expiration ot two months from the date of the 
said decision : 

Schedule 

Name of contesting candidate. Name of constituency* 

1 o 

Shri Shil> Naran Tudu, village Kawusole, Taldangra. 

post office Pcaidoha, district Bunk urn. 

By Order, 

Iv. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 


New Del hi- 11, the 8rd May 1962. 

No. WB-LA / 18 62( IS). — In pursuance oi sub-rule (5) ot rule 89 of the 
Conduct ot Election- Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies 
filename ol Hit* person shown in column 1 of the schedule below who having 
been a contesting candidate lor the election to the West .Bengal Legislative 
Assembly irom the constituency specified in column 2 thereof, at the election 
held in 1962 has, in accordance with tin* decision given today l»v the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) ot the said rule, tailed In" lodge any 
account ol his election expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (e) of section 7 of the Representation of Un- 
people Act, 1951, on the expiration ot two months from the date oi tin* 
said decision : 

Schedule 

Naim* of contesting candidate. Name of constituency. 

J 2 

Shri Jatig Chandra ltai, Belling Bustee, Darjeeling. 

post office Bijunburi, district Darjeeling. 

By Order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 



82 


THE CAECtJTTA GAZETTE. MAY 10, 1962 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND 
COMMUNICATIONS 
Department of Transport 
(Transport Wing) 

NOTIFICATIONS 

Ports 

New Delhi, the 26th March 1962 

No. 9-PCI(l 05)/61. — In exercise of the powers 
conferred by clause (1) of section 16A of the Cal- 
cutta Port Act, 1890 (Bengal Act 111 of 1890), the 
Central Government hereby appoints the following 
pci sons as Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta 
tor a pei iod of two years from the 1st April 1962: — 

(1) Shri Makhan Chatterjce —Representatives of 

Labour. 

(2) Dr. (Mrs.) Maitrcyee Bose Representatives 

of Labour. 


HARBANS SINGH, Under Secv 



M istered No. C207 



(Halnttta 







VAISAKIIA 20 | 


THURSDAY, MAY 10, 1902 


l SAK A lhb4 


PART II — Advertisements, Notices 

Proeriure regarding tending Manuscripts for publication of Advertisements, Notices, cto., in the 

“Galoutta Gazette 9 ’ (Part II). 

1. Manuscripts should be properly edited end complete in Itself. 

2. Manuscripts should always be typewritten on one side of the paper. The name of signatory should be typewritten 
Mlow the signature. 

3. Manuscripts intended for advertisement in the next issue of “Calcutta Gazette” shall be received by Publication Sales 
Offict of New Secretariat Buildings, 1 Hastings Street, Calcutta, up to 3-30 p. m. on Friday and at Head Office at Alipore up to 
11 a. m. on Saturday. 

4. All costs shall be paid in advance and deposited along with the manuscripts. 

5. Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING (PUBLICATION 
•RANCH), WE8T BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS. ALIPORE. 

The press shal l not be held responsible tor delay in publication el any advertisement due to the non-outer vanes of the 
faitructions detailed above. 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 


Advertisement No. 18 

W l’IJ( \ I IONS *in* united lor umh mien t inned posts 
* I •ill* In li.»n riti/t'H.s ,ind pul onus ol I lit I i;i II in igili iiHgialed 
nmn l\d Man with .ntumion o| pei maneii Ll y set I Imp. m 
Iniiiii. miljpMis ol Nepal, Sikkim or State ol Pondiehei ry 
uirI |iu|noii% domieiled in (run, Daman and Din Age limits 
relaxable for Government servants exoept where otherwise 
Specified, Cpper age limits relaxable by "> years lor S'die- 
‘mli'l ( ., ami x ( heduled Tubes c andidat es. No relaxa- 
,lu|1 ini otheu, sa\e in esecptionnl en eiinislnnee.v and w i i I 
‘ ,l '.is* be relaxed hevond tine.* \eaix. Qualifications 

relaxable at Commission’s discretion in case of candidates 
otherwise well qualified. I* artieulais and appla.it mil lm in 
nht.i i n.» fil, . i, on, seeietarx, I’nion Public Service Commi-* 
Post lk)\ No I Kf), New Delhi. Request tor lonns 

Ull< ’ l“'i iiy name o’ jiosi and should he art ompa tiled h» 

1 ,-,ed unstamped invelope lot eai li post at least o' 

w, ‘ 1 ’ I" indicating tlieieon natm* ol po-Ts lor w lm*l» 
Ulll, e a, .* icipined. (’losing date r>i leeeipi o! applie.it inn 
jV* 11 J [ <,,| Mir\ receipt or erossod Jndian Postal Order ;<»i 
I* ’ | ■ >n '<P (l ,s7 nP. lot Scheduled t astes and Selie- 
i’nhes) the 4th .lime R)d‘J ilKth .lime I D0‘J loi 
M'l't'-iio** ! rom ahioad). Separate npplnation with sepaiu.e 
wJ * , *' < l u| i ‘i lot each post. Candidates abroad muy appl;. 
Hill 1 I* M 1 , ' 1 D* I H Inrins ale not available and depo-ii lee 
Ml ' 1 Indian I'anlias^. Il, required candidates in : 

Ulf l M *i sonal Hite. view’. 


&****!*. (Fisheries Ec °n°mi cS ) 


in the Central 


hut i w .? of Fi8her *®s Education, Bombay. Post temporal v, 
‘tiikw/ ^ To continue indefinitely. Post reserved lor Sc lit - 


()iih s | | 

&M»* n . h '‘ s candidate, it sueii suitable candidate avail- 
1 R n Tn,',^ , nviSf ‘ to he treated as unreserved. Pay: 

h* - 1 J00~ 50/2-— l,2o(). Higher initial pay to 


'jeiialU qualified and <\p<nemed candidate. Age: 4*> 
\eais and below . Qualifications; Essential (i) MunIiVh 

< 1 4 « Hi Keoiiomi. S ol a Siuo-'iii t d Cnivel’sitv ol cqin 
valent < u ) About. seven years' experience in the held ol 
lishei ie> < t oneum-s. 


J. (a) One Assistant Professor (Inland Fisheries) and 
(b) one Assistant Profossor (Oceanography) in the Central 
Institute of Fisheries Education, Bombay. Post tempoimy, 
but likely 1 o continue indefinitely. Pay: ID. 400 tin .|oO 
do tiOO — TV- -070 ICR. TV — 07)0. Higher initial pay to 
specially qualified and experienced candidate Age: 40 
yea i*. md below. Qualification: Essential— For prst at 
(a): (I) Master > decree in /oology o| a feuigniKod 

university m equiv aleiiL. tin About lout veals' e\|>ci iniet 
in lisb Mill. m. For post at (b): tu Mustm ^ |>,.gree hi 
/oology / Phy sk s /( In mist ry / 1 it eauugi aphv ol a leeognised 
umver-otv, or eqim aleiit. mu About lour vears’ expenenee 
in O ’ea nograpby . 


I (a) one Animal Husbandry Officer (Sheep and Wool) 
and (b) one Assistant Animal Husbandry Officer (8heep 
and Wool), Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New 

Delhi. I lot i i post*- tempo: ary bit likelv to continue 
indetiniteiy . Olhei l 111 Hus la nig equ.d, S< heduled Caste*, 

I • i be* candidates will be piejeired Pay: For post at 

(a): 1C. mo to Mio :,o P.vti. For post at (b): Its. TVn 

2‘» Vi K I — .10 —V>0 K H. dll 800- K. It.* 880 :t A OHO 

I hgber initial pay to -pei i.dlv qualified and experienced 
<audidat«*s Age: in ve.m ami below Qualifications I 

Essential For post at (a): iu Diploma or Degiee .n 
Vetenn.n v Si iern e oi d'^m in Agiieultuie ol a reeogni^«»d 
i. ni v ersit v ' nisr itu 1 mn (n) \ limit five yews’ expi rience in 

planning ami supervision ol u seal eh pi ogi amines pertaining 
to sheep and wool development. For fKlSt at (b) : (i) INg'te 
or Diploma hi Vet<*nriary irnce <n Degiee in Agiwulture 
i/j u i eeognised Cnivei sity / inslit utiovi. (u; About ihree 


198 


TUT! CALCUTTA (JAZET'V*. MAY 10, 1962 


[Part fl 


years’ experience of catt le development work in a Goveni- 
t o. r.Mo«mso,l livestock I arm. preleral.ly in a sheep 
farm. 

4 One Senior Investigator in the office of the ReB rttrav 
General of India, Ministry of Home Affairs. lost 

porui.v ami resei veil loi Scheduled asles/ J' MH _ . 

‘late; il no such ,mlal.lo candidate ax adabli, will »« 
treated as unreserved. Pay: Km :ar,_l.,-4fC-K.B.-« 
075 H . Klmr initial pay to specially qualified Md 
expel ien. ed < andi'late. Age: 30 years and below . <J*"T 

hoations: Essential — (i) Second ( lass Mastei s or «, «• 
"dent llonoms Depree ol a le.oprnsed J ll.v.-rslly Ml 
\ lit luopolopv with specialisation .11 Social A "t lironulppy . 
(in A limit ill ret years' •eseareli espi rience. 

Farm Superintendent, Equine Breeding Farm, 
Ministry of Food and Agriculture. I’oM nm. porarv , bo 
likelv !o become permanent. Pay: Its. 100- 4|K| "• 

tillO to d70-K.I5-:t-V-!»V>. It ipliei ..i.t.a l>»' <o 

sp, eiallt qualified and experienced candidate. Age. 4. 
tears aii l below Qualifications: Essential- (. ) Dx-Kiec o. 
Diploma ill Vetei innry Science 01 Depiee III Aprieil.t me o. 
a recognised university /institution. <n> I ost-nracln.it f 
traiinilH m Animal Husbandry . (nil About three veals 

expel lence in broedino and management ol equine*. 

(i. Assistant Animal Husbandry Commlssioner CNutri. 
tion and Fodder), Indian Council of Agricultural Research. 

Dost tcmiiorarx but likely to continue indetimtely . Other 
tluiK'S lieltiH equal Scheduled V 'ast.es/ 1 1 dies eandioalt 

will be mcle.rcd. Pay. Its. ?IR) -.'.d I II.Rbw 

initial pa x to specially qualified and ex|>erieiiced t undid.ili . 
Age: r. tears and below. Qualifications: Essential— 0 > A 

decree or diploma in Veterinary Silence 01 'cricult lire ol 
a let opnised mm ersitv /instil ution (n) I ost cinda.it. 
traiuinc in. and/oi i eseareli expel cue animal nutri- 

tion. (mi About seven years' experience ol crassmml 
manacement nud/oi loddei pioduciion on a larce tarn). 

7 Assistant Animal Husbandry Commissioner (Educa- 
tion), Indian Council of Agricultural Research. I ost tern 
pel ar\ . but likelx to continue indefinitely Other till tips 
bemc Ciimil, Scheduled Castes/T. ibex .i.rolidato will he 
preleri ed. Pay: Its. 7011 ‘>0 1 ""‘•'“I l’;':' 

to sperm Ox qualified and e\|«‘i lenced candid i|e Age: to 
year, and below. Qualifications: Essential— (I ) Decree Ol 
Diploma hi Veterinary Science xiitli a po.st-craduat" 
deuicc in nitv In am h ol Animal Science til a recognised 
nun m’sit x / instil ution (in About sex en years experi. nc< 

..I teaeliinc at a Veterinary College o| stamlinc m a 
lesponsible capneity. 

H One Social Welfare Officer, Education Department, 
Tripura Administration. 1 V.d tompoiarv but likely to 
coni in u<* ami be retained on permanent basis. I od, r« sei \ »•" 
iur Scheduled Tubes candidate; il no Mien mi it nine t ainh- 
date a\ a liable, will be treated unit served. Pay: Ks. -)Hi 
- :«)- (,20- K.H.— IHN <>80 — 40 — 8(H). Higher initial pay to 

specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age: 10 
veai s and below. Qualifications: Essential— (1) Po-<- 
u raduatit* Degree or Diploma in Soeial Service Irom a 
lecuginsed Institution (ii) About three years' experience 
ill Hue in I well are ad ru mist i a turn. 

i) professor, Public Health Administration, All India 
Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, C ^ ,c .^ t 1 la * 

Of Health. Post permanent. Pay: IN. I ..400 <>0 I ,<>00. 
(Private practice o| any kind will not be allowed).. Hignei 
initial nu\ to specially qualilied ami i xperieneed candidal. . 
Age: Not exceeding 50 ye»m. Qualifications: Essential 
(l) \ M<<di( a I rpialilu at ion (otliei than licentiate quali- 

fication^ included in the Fust 01 ^'eond Schedule m 
Part. II ol Third Schedule to the Indian Medical Council 
Ae+ 1050 I Holders ol qualifications included ill 1 art II 
ol Thud Schedule should also fulfil the conditions stipu- 
lated in Sectum U04>.| (n) Postgraduate qualification in 

Public Health, e.g., D P. H. D.T.AI A H. Du) About I , 
years' standing in the proiession with about •> yea is 
expeiuu.ee in Puhl.e Heahh Administration and m tiacin.ig 
the suhps t ol Hygiene and Public Health. 

10. Two Research Officers, Directorate of Economics and 
Statistics, Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Department 
Of AgrlOUlture). Posts temporary hut likel.v to eontinm 
indefinitely . Both the posts leserxed lor Scheduled Caste <1 
Tribes candidates, if such suitable candidates available ; 
otherwise treated as unreserved. Pay: H . 40f V - h>0 — 4b0- 
,‘ 10 - 4 ) 00 - T r »-()70- E. 14-35— WiO. Highei initial pay to 


specially qualilied and experienced candidates Am 
P ielerahlv :45 years and below . Qualifications?^ Essential 

(i) At least 2nd Class Master's degree in Kcou<,u,i< s 0 
Commerce or 2nd class M.Sc. (Agri.) degree m A trri, Ul 
tural Economics of a recognised university nr ^«|uix .d. m 

(ii) About three years’ expel ience o| conducting 

in Economics problems or ol teaching dogiee classes, itl 
recognised institution. 

11. Research Officer No. II (Entomology) for tl 
•otithorn Forest Research Centro, Coimbatore, in, * lt . r 

porarv, hut likely to continue. Post reserve! toi s. |„ 
diiled Tribes candidate, il such suitable candidate a\;u 
»We- otherwise treated as unreserved. Pay: IN. .450- ‘j\ 
— r><M) — K. B. — ‘Ml — Sf 50 — E. B. — 30 — bdU - .‘i"> _ mu 
H iglwu initial pus to specially qualified amt exjn-n, n ( , 
candidate. Age: :N> years and below. Qualification] 

Eaoemial - ( I ) Masters dc‘gree in /oedogy / Agi icul un rtl] 
specialisation in Kntoinology, or in Entomology, m \ 
elittteslup I.A.IM. in Entmuologv. (ii) Adequate exp., 
,. nrr o| research work in insect pests, pieleiahK 
lores! rv importance. 

12. One Automobile Engineer, National Malaria Erac 
cation Programme, Malaria Institute of India, Ministry 

Health. Post temporarv hut lik« Iv to continue. |»„ 
reserved tor Scheduled (’a>ue eandidati. il mii Ii sait:il, 
candidate is available otlmruisc treated as reserved, 
Scheduled Tribes candidate il such suitable eaudidutr 
available tailing which treated as unreserved Pa 
Ks 700 40- 1,U M )—.*)<)/ 2-- 1 2o0. Ilig.liei initial p,i\ 

siaM'iallv qua* i lied and experienced candidate. Age: 
vee.is ami 1 m low . Qualifications: Essential: u; Digm 
\utomobih Engineenng or Mediaiiieal Enguieenng 
leeognistsl I’niv ersitv or oqu, valent. (n) About !i\c vea 
» \ pin icir*e in a large ..utomoluh' workshop (iii) KxjH iin 
ol testing o! diflrrent ivpe of nun bines and mnb. 

jq Research Officer l Wool Analysis Laboratory 
Animal Husbandry Department, Himachal Pradt 
Administration, Simla. Pom temporal \, but likelv to u 
1 1 , me. Otbir tilings being equal fv bed tiled ( a .tc^ I'nl 
innilidate will he prelern‘d Pay: IN. 2o(V 2-» >><* - 

;;>0. Higher initial pa.v to specially qualified 

experiemed candidate. Age: IN vears and below Qu 

beat Ions : Essential (h il) Degie- m Diploma in \<i 
nni n Science oi Animal 1 1 usfiandrv , oi Agra alt me u 
Animal Husbandly a special Mih.ieet, ol a recogm 

uinversitv /institution (u) About two vears' hainii 

tvpeueiue ol statistical work in the field id \mi 

llushamlrv. jneferahlv in a Wocyl Amdvsis Laboiatt 
(Or) (ii Mattel’s degree in Statistns oi Mat licmat k - n 
iccognmcd univeisitv with post -gi .iduate training m 
Ims'oi Animal lliishandiv. (u) About twa> veaN 
cnee ol Stat istical w oi k in a Wool \n.dv-is Lalmi.it' 

(2) \\ diking, knowledge of Hindi. 

11. One Soil Scientist at the Indian Institute of Suf 

cane Research, Ministry of Food and Agriculti 

Post temporary hut likelv to continue. Post icscivjm 
S ehedilleil ( f ast< /Tribes candidate ami only such ( amtidJ 
need apply Pay: Its. 7(b) NO 1 ,2N0. Higher inmal 

to speciallv (pialified and experienced candidate Age: 
years and below. Qualihoations : Essential- m Mum 
degree in tTumistiy ol recog mseil l diversity or eipnva 
with specialisation in JMivsical or Inorganic Cbenustn 
\gi m ult - 1 r:« 1 (’heinistr.v or Sol! Sciem-e. (Or) AsM.(iat“ 
oi I.A.IM. ni Soil Science and Agricultural ( , |‘ ,||I1S 
(in \ bout sevtm mils’ research evpcrumce ill s,, d s ' ll 
and Plant Nutrition preleiahl.v using ladio-tracci 
iiMpies as evidenced by published work. 

i:> Two senior Lecturers in Physics, M. B. B. coif 
Agartala, Tripura Administration. Posts permanent 
reserved tor Scheduled Tribes enmlulate it such s 
candidates are available otherwise treated min-' 
Pay: Ks. 250- 20--(N0 2.V— 750. Higher initial H 

vpeiaallv uimlified and experienced candidates. S ' 

years and below. Qualifications: Essential n> \ 

second class Master’s degree in Physics ol » 

l niv ei sity . (ii) About three years experience "i 
in Pbv sics m degiec clasM^s. 

Hi. One Assistant Iron and Stool ControHor (6/*^ 
iron and Steel Control Organisation, Calcutta, M'nw 
Stool, Mines and Fuel. Poxi jM-nmniont »n«i I s , 

Silu-duUxl T.ihos/SrliiMhili-a Castes caiuUd.it. 

Rs. 41 M) -400 -4.’>0- :«t— 000- :!•)- 0)0 -X. B. ; 
Higher initial pa.v to si iull.v qualiiicd and 



p.Ort Ml 


TTTE CALCUTTA OAZETTfi, MAY 10, 1962 


199 


a 8*t 45 years and below. Qualifications' 

— (i) Degree in Arts /Science /Commerce /Enginiei- 
**>f tf recognised rnixersity. (ii) About throe years’ 
^kU’ienee in 'distribution of steel, including, commercial 
t* w ledge ol steel sections ami t-heii uses, (iii) familiarity 
* n °1 (; 0 \ eriiment procedure and practical ti. lining iii steel 
(,„ an Engineering linn ol repute). 


Assistant Entomologist in tho Plant Introduction 
scheme, Indian Agricultural Research institute, New 

ruiihi * |»ost permanent, but appointment to be made on a 
♦ i.morarx basis lor the pivstut. Pay: Rs. 550 25 51 K» — 

K H - 50 — SOU E. 11. — :t0 — X50 — 55 — 900. Higher 
. i-.l I, i v to sjienallv tpialiiied and experienced candidate. 
Ate: ;;V years and below. Qualifications: Essential— 
** Master's degree • n Zoology / Agriculture wit h speriali- 
J lh4lll *,ii Entomology, or in Entomology, or AssocuiteHup 
^ l» ] hi Entomology, (ii) About two veais’ experience 
m \nplied Entomologx ; n relation to (piarantme piohlouiv 


is One Engineer and 8hip Surveyor in the Mercantile 
Marine Department, Ministry of Transport and Communi- 

rations. Post permanent, but appointment will be made 
“ u-mpomry basis. Pay: Rs. CM)0 — 40— 1,1<KI — -1 ,400 
;>li 0.-1,500. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
i-xpciiciirod candidate (0 udvnie-o increments may be 
panted lor a bolder of extra Eirst ( lass Engineer’s (Vrti- 
ii<atc *»t Competency, and one year’s weightuge m seniority 
max aUo be given). Age: 40 ve.irs and below. Qualifi- 
cations: Essential — <i) fust Class Certificate ol Compe- 
i (■{,(■% (Steam and Motor) (li) At least fixe years’ service 
; ,t si'.i pint ol which must have b<‘eu as Chiet Engineer or 
st-c, nd Fnginoei ot foreign-going ships. 


j!i Two Senior Scientific Officers, Grade I, Research 
and Development Organisation, Ministry of Defence. Rosts 
temporary hut likely to become permanent. Rosts 
lor Scheduled Castes/’l i dies candidates if such 
suitable eamndntcA arc available otheixxise treated 
unre^rrx cl Pay: Its 7(H) — 50 — 1.250. lligliei initial pay 
to s[n*( in II x qualified .md experienced candidate. Ago: 

Rrelerablx aboxi 55 years, tor all including Government 
1 < i \ ants. Qualihcatiorfi: Essential — (i) Research degree or 
lu-i lass Mastor’.s degiee with Elect lonii s/ Radio Physics 
qm ul subject ot Master’s degree (Technology) in laei - 
ton. its oi eqinx uleiit . (Or) Second (’lass degree m I’eh - 
t ton in n ti k at ion engineering or a degree in Electrical Engi- 
iieeimi* xx n b specialised Darning in Elect ronics or equiva- 
lent (Or) Diploma in Teb'-cominumcat ion Engineering v»i 
the Indnn Institute ot Science, Rangalore, or Madras 
Inntutr cm Technology or equivalent. (ii) About five 
' c;t i - experience ol icseareh in design and developtm lit 
at. t:n elect ricul / If vdraulic serve-equipments for one 
.Hid (l»l eleetromes computers lot the cubci post. 


-'i One Professor of Agriculture, Agricultural College, 
Himachal Pradesh Administration. Post temporary but 
likrlx to cont nun. Other tilings being equal Scheduled 
(Vlcv /Tnhos candidate would he preferred. Pay: Rs. 050 
in 750/ 10 — 95u/50- 1,200. Higher initial pay to 
l»«Mia) I x qualified and experienced candidate. AgO: 55 
'<*ais an. | la-low. Qualifications: Essential- (i) Master’s 
m Vgricultnre oi Agronomy oi a recognised Cnivir- 
s,tN '»r cquix silent . or Assoeiatesliip ol I.A.R I. m 

^'Minomx (ii; About 5 years* practical / research ex pet i- 

M,l ‘ '»i V'.'ionomv / Karin Mana jement / Agi i< ult arc* as 
»*x ic|,‘tn i*i| bv published werk. (ni; About two years’ 

x | »» * 1 1 1 * t h • i , , teaching to degree elapses in an Agi hull itrai 

I n- 1 it ute. (ix) Working knowledge ol Hindi. 


~i. One Junior Scientific Officer, Research and Develop- 
ment Organisation, Ministry of Defence. Rost temporary 
">i likely to he i ciaiiicd on permanent basis. Other thing* 
♦■qmd preference will be given to Scheduled Casl-es/ 
candidate. Pay: Rs. 550- 25— 5(H) 50 500 — E.B. 

Oe nop E.R.— 50 H50 — 55 — 900. Higher initial pay to 
■ilV ' | ' Muulilicd and experienced candidate. Age: Prefer- 
ears, lor all inc luding Government servants. 
V nncations: Essential-- (I) Second (’lass Master’s Degree. 
j 1 s< ,< ' , »< , c Technology oi Agriculture ol a recognised 
Ml ,m *‘i '‘t ' ' Inst it ution. (ii) About two years’ expetience 
<‘i ' *,i ion, storage and transportation of stores. 

MmL 0ne Ba cteriologist, safdarjang Hospital, New Delhi, 
he i Health. Post permanent, but appointment will 
to,n r><>rary basis. Pay: Rs. 7(H) -40 1 . 100— 

,,! *• E2.)0 plus non-practising allowance of 25 per cent. 

1 ,:, > subject to a minimum of Rs. 150 per month. 


Private practice of any kind will not be allowed. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age: 40 vears and below. Qualifications: Essential— (i> A 
Medical qualification (other than licentiate qualification) 
included in the Enst oi Second Schedule oi Part II ol 
Third Schedule to tin* Indian Medical Council Ad. Odd. 

| Persons |»ossessiug qualifications includes! m Part II ol 
Third Schedule should ako lullil the conditions iclating to 
iegistr.it ion specified til section 15(5) ol the Act | (n) Post- 
graduate Degree or Diploma in Pathology oi II, id ci mingy 
o| a i eeog ui M'd Cuixeisity oi Institution. < m > About 
seven veals’ standing in the piolcssnm including about 
live years’ pradical experience in a pathological lahonitoiy 
or iii Pathological department ol a Medical College or 
I lospital. 

Corrigendum 

Deputy Registrar, Co-operative Societies (Civil Supplies), 
Himachal Pradesh Administration. In partial moditicat mu 
o| ('ijiiimisMun’x adx ci 1 iscmciit No II, item N * » 25. it :s 

noiilied loi general inlormatmn Hull the post is icseixed 
lor Scheduled Castes candidate lading which will he 
treated a* reserxed lor Si liedwled I nhes candidate. Only 
Scheduled Castes /Scheduled Tribes candidates need apply. 
Other conditions remain um hanged. Closing date extendiKl 
to 28th May 1962. 

AIR FORCE FLYING COLLEGE EXAMINATION, 
NOVEMBER 1062 

THE CNION PCIiLlC SERVICE COMMISSION will hold 
an e saimnat ion at Ahmedahad, Allahabad. Rangalore, 
Rliopal, Roiuhay. (’ahutta, Cuttack, Delhi, Hyderabad, 
Jaipur, Jammu. Madras, Nappni. Patiala. Patna, Sbilluiig 
ami Tnx amlnini on 7 1 it ..ml St h Noxemb**i |Pii2 on 
admission to tin Air Force Flying College. Age limits: 
Candidate-, must hnxc been horn not earliei than 2nd 
August 1912 and not lutei than 1st Febiuaiy I94(i. These 
age limits can in no case be relaxed. Qualifications: 
Mat i leulat ion or cquixalent \pplicat ions horn (.mdulaits 
who baxe appealed oi intend to appeal at Mat ricula l.ioji or 
equivalent (xamination acceptable prnx ision allx . Appli- 
cation forms and full particulars old. unable Iron, tlx Score 
t.iry, Cnioii PuIJn Scixuc Commission, Dliolpur House, 
D II (,) , !’() New Delhi II, by Mini I ling Re. 1 .00 by 
Money ordci oi on la^h jsixmeiit at I lie eountei. Exeiy 
camlidate musl cle.irlx ,^lale on Money Older Coupon “AIR. 
FORCE ELMNG (\)IjLE(J E EX AMINA TJON, NOVFM 
HER, 19(»2” and also give his name and full postal address 
in block letters. Postal Orders oi cheques or cniieiiey 
notes x\ i I ! not be ,i< copied in lieu ot Money Orders. Appli 
cation forms and connected papers are also obtainable fits 
I com tin* nearest \ir Force Rccniituig (Mine/ Air For • 
Station or tiie National (\id“i Corps I mi. Only Unmarried 
Male Candidates Can Apply For Admission To This Exami- 
nation. Completed applications must reach the Union 
Pulilic Soixno Commission by 2nd July I9<>2 (Kith July 
19(12, in ease ol candidates icsidmg abroad). 

Corrigendum 

I.A.S. ETC., EXAMINATION, 1962 

In partial modification m the Commission's advertise- 
ment No 11 relating to I A.S , et< , Examination, 1 9(i2, 
published on 1 7 1 1 1 March P.M»2, it is notified tor general 
inform. 1 1 ion that 1 lie upper age limit shall also be iclaxabie 
ill lax our ol displaced peisiuis horn Pakistan h’ee < on- 

eesMon also admissible. Closing dale for such persons only 
extended up to 28th May 1962 (nth June 1962, for those 
residing abroad). 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WE8T BENGAL 

General instructions to candidates applying in response to 
advertisements issued by the Commission for reorult- 
ment to po$ts of “Selection**. 

( I ) Instructions regarding submission of application. - 

Applications are to he made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor). 
Ahpore, Caieiitta-27, personally or on sending t» large eelf- 
addressod envelope xxith stamps sufficient to cover tbe 
postage affixed to it Candidates who are unable to obtain 
copies of the proscribed form may apply *>b *ny similar 


200 


THE CALCUTTA U.AZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


[Part jj 


typed (not- handwritten) form showing exactly the word- 
ing in i l! spacing oi the sample form published in the 
* *( ?u i(*i 1 1 ta Gazette” of the let September 1955. provided 
the blanks are tilled ul> in the candidates’ own handwriting. 

(?> Particulars and oartlhoates required. Candidates 

should luruish evidence oi their age, qualilicat ions anu 
previous o\pc»ncnce together with certificates written not 
mole Ilian one xertr prior to the date ot their applications, 
from M> ..»>iiMhtc persons, testifying to their pm ate 
charm :* r 

The t oriimisMion r.c* ept.s only the age ot a candidate as 
letordcd in the Matriculation or the Secondary School 
Kmal/ l.i'iunr. Cert i li« ale. In the case of a lemab* candi 
dare whom* ..gt i* n<»t lecordod in the Mai rmilalloii >i 
School I''ma I < crtilicate, any ol the following evidence of 
age jh at * opu>d by the ('ommisaion: — 

1 . \ cci t.ificat-e Irom the Head mist mss ol the m*Ii*«»I 

a hu h she last attended, showing hei exa-t u^e us 
i.m ordoil in the school register. 

\ n affidavit- regarding her age sworn by her f atlu»*- 
or mother or some other person in a povMilim to 
know bv having been present or heard of her birth 
at the time of occurrence. 

;t \ ciM' 1 1 lieu to regarding her age, from a Mem her o* 

» I ,«• Legislature or a gazetted office!, who must, 
haw* known the candidate and her family, mdieat. 
mg idem l v the evidence on the basis of which he/ 
‘ho satisfied himsell / herself on the point. 

(d) Pee. Candidates must enclose with their apolicn 
lions a tec ot IN 5 in the form of a receipted clutlmi 
from a Cm oinmeiil I rensiirv or the Reserve Rank ot itnloi 
nnd.i the head “ X\ X VI- Miscellaneous- -Receipts o‘ th« 
j’ljhlio seivicc ( omniiHHioii. West- Bengal”. Money order*, 
cheques cl i . m lieu ol treasury challaus are not accepter? 
J*osfa.! * ii dci, howe\er, may he accepted from ca-ri'lulates 
Thus slio. ild 'ho • mss"d and made payable to “The Soera 
illlN | > ii N* i \ nr < ‘oniinission. West Bengal’* No appli 
caturn a ill h.‘ considered unless aceomparmd w ith the 
reqinstp- ipplc ut ion tee. 

Candidates ithrond may depomt their applic.at.ioii tees 
with the High Commissioner ol India or the Kmbaw\ . as 
the case mav he, and obtain receipts tor the same, which 
Will have In ho attached to their applications to he sub 
nutted to tin* ( om mission. 

Candida!' ■ in Government service should nu*ke miro 
bebrre dope it up, lee that their applications will he toiwmd 
ed l v then supi-rioi officers. In no case will me let* pau 
with" the .i jiplic-ition he refunded. 

The < ’oiuniisMon may remit fee in ca*e ol goiuiine 
indigent. smd bona tide displaced person from Pakistan. 

An indigent displaced person shall, in the first instance. 
pa> the Hppl’c-itmn let* prescribed lor a gazetted poet 
advertised bv the Commission but if be /she is selected tor 
and appe ir- the interview, the tee paid by him/her u tl* 
be refueled a It m wards. 

No te. “(i* \ msphiced person claiming age com i ssmn 

must h 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 with In- application sat-islactorv evidence 
that, he is bona tide displaced peison hum Pakistan, e.g , 
rehouc icgi Cation card or a certificate Irom a gaze It oil 
office! Ol a" Member ot Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original 

(,,) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Sc bod uled 
Tribe limiiiti" ago concession must furnish with his appli 
cat um a ccmticate m original from a gazetted officer or a 
Mom bn ot Pat liainent or State Legislature belonging to 
tbo Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular * asto or tribe to which he claims to belong. 

(m) A displaced pci son seeking remission of the applna 
tion lee mu n lurnisb besides t-lio evidence required under 
Note (o a l>o\ c , a certificate (in original) from a District 
officer Ol a gazetted officer or » Member of Parliament or 
State Lego lat ure to show that lie is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.” 

(4) Address.— Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 


(5) Canvassing.— Any attempt on the part of candidate 
to enlist support of their applications through person a 
influence or officials of (Government will disqualify then, 
lor appointment Spontaneous recommendation f r()U| 
IH.rs.uis interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will be disregarded. 

(0) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
<,r temporary employment under any Government, a lor a j 
or M » tutor v Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation), m 
India a ill he rejected unless they are submitted llirc» U gh 
the appointing authority ot their posts or service 

( ’nmiidates serving under Government or a local or 
Statutory Body should submit nil advance copy in the prea- 
<M l ltM | |,>nn The application tee should in such cases I* 
att a* 1 1 (*d to the udvanco copy and not to the original. The 
candidature ot such applicants may not however ho c (ni . 
sidei ed d the original applications do not reach the Com- 
mission's office within a fortnight from the closing <i u u> 
Lidias applications in oiiginal or advance copies with 
applicat ion tees mo received within the closing date, l u | tt 
apple alums 1 1 1 h , s he rejected. 


A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Rental 

Alipote, the ‘27th January BKli. 


Avertisement No. 26 

A COMPUtTH VK KXVMINCI’ION Will l » h. id m 

( 'iLiit l :i m June 1‘Mi? lor ic.imtimiil to two pout 

, )( Hs „| \KP\L1 TRANSLN roiM PM-PIRMH IH-HMl; 
|\ THK IIOMK (IMBLICITM DKPWmiK.M Ik 

,. , , , 1 1 1 1 1 ;« | tun consists *)l \N - 1 1 1 c 1 1 < C l - IM Ti.iU Li « I -ii *(» ’ 

( I.mpo- It loll lollow ed b\ V • ' a Voce T* : ^'1. *. 

p.is i! I7‘» (pirn house rent allovvanci* il admi mIiI* 

Qualifications: Essential (i) A dcgice ol a mu-mixC 
I ’in \ ci sit v , nil "iilii'H'in command n\ m Kmdcli .» 1 
Ncoali laiigu..-c with alnlil v io piodm* Han ! i""ii 

i io,n Lrclisli into Nepali and vuc xci-a Desirable 
Kspci icm c ol pi. Mil leading. Age hciwccn *J'» miu A . x- ... 
on 1st Mav I1M»*J i cla \a hlc m ‘'a-^' 1 ol pcw.n .iln cl', a 
pci ma non t (Jo\ ei uniont service. Upper age-limit lehixikk 
h\ 5 veais lot candidates belonging to Scheduled (Vies/ 
Tubes ami b\ d \ears lor displaced persons H».m Pakel.m 
and i o i i ci tain o-ilici c.dcgones ol candidates. 

Detailed particiilais and .ipphc.it ion Imm '»ln rn ikl 
nl cost ) hole the oHicc ol the Puhlu Seme ( oii.im i 
\V( St Bengal, Amlcison Iloi^c (gnumd llooi * M -.ui. 
Calcutta k J7, peisoually oi on sending a s< h-addi m td -> 
ell \ dope (^izc Itry.V) with post ag" stamps v\ o f ! 1 1 ’.<» at ■ 

iiai-c atlivcd t-hcrcon. 'Ihosc who intend to take apphi.uiwi 
| or!l i < >1 < and oi submit tlie applicat ions p‘'i " MJ 

*l M .|'d Jo so between ID-1 A a. in. and d pm on nm " ! 
mu da vs and between ID-15 a. in. and 1*’-ID pm '*■' 
Sat .ml a vs \ ppluat ion> (witli two copies o! !'•> "I" 1 1 11 

photo;* i imlis ) lo he submitted ill Hie pie-ddM*! ham 

( Missed Postal Order ol IN 5 payable' to * 1 1 In' u 
l»,,ti|ic Sei \ ice Commission. West Bengal'’ oi •» 1 “ ,,sl 

( ’ha la n l<*» IN 5 undci head “XXI A \l |M * 1 jV" ' ''' ] • 

Ret ci pts ol Public Service Commission, \\ csl o* ll ^‘ l 

The Commission may remit lees ol genuinely mdmem 
hona tide disphn ed persons. A candidate s<*ekm*L »‘>m ^ 

nl lees will, howevci. be required to pa\ the pn 1 ' 

I ee along with I he application. if he appears at ^ 
e*iammalion ami satisfies the Commission that lie m -« - ( 

l.dt displ.eed pel son in in»ligent eircumst anejm wh«. ‘ - 

:tlloi«l to pay the lee, the amount- paid shall he 
to him. 

Closing date for filing applications is 18th May 1»C 2 * 


A. C. ROY, Secretn n 
Public Service Commission, W^st R‘ “d 1 


Alipore, the 25th April, 1962. 


mis CAi.rrTTA gazette, may 10, 19A2 


201 


pltlT 1 1 1 


Advertisement No. 27 

VPPI/H 'ATIONS atf united Irum Indian "it17.cn., lui 
k Ij.HoW IHg posts-- 

, one Superintendent, Fulia Polytechnic In the Weit 
[eng al General Service. Post nmpmaix Women inniit 
I,;, Pay: ,w pm month inrlusnc <»l all 

ii »w m- cs 

Qualifications: Essential <u A -Ih'.iit m I’.ngmc'ci mr ot 
Ih.Imii miiw’isitx ni anv other qunlilicitt ion exempflhig 
1 I>()|1 )i<|aO hom appealing in Sim lions A ami It <>| *h" 

^ n , ,,, t r .Member diip Kx.immation ol t ho Institution of 
n , nirris (India); 00 Fix c* .wars’ ixpcnciiie in a rcspon- 
, 1 , 1 ,, position in a technical institution oi imhistri.il 
Damnation or mid*? G\>x ei nmenl . Desirable Teaching 
vpfi it*n*‘t in a technical inst it.ut i« n. Age*. I tot worn -T> 
.p, xeais oil tlir Nt filin' 1002, iciaxable sn the c.c. u 
i i .nidulatps possessing. except lonally in«j;h qtialdieaiioru 
,„1 tor prisms holding substantia' appoint men I in th*- 
;| ; „,,hon IVpnrtincnt , Wi st Bengal. 

Closing date— The 4th June 1962. 

iln Three Lecturers in Physiology in the West Bengal 
umor Educational Service (Men's Branch). Posts tem- 
„,.I 1 V Women also eligible. Pay: Its. 27 b lb A50 - ‘JO 
(.Vi |m i month plus lion -a* i out allow amr as admissible 
mlrr t he rules 1 1 i^Ium mu ml pav up to It-. T»U may bo 
Mim'd -»n Pit* basis ol qualifications ami expel ivnee. 

Qualifications: Essential- A jirst class Master’s degree, 
r, \ mvoik! 1 ‘bts-s Maxtor's degree with <i.st class Honours 

I the I*. a holer's degree. Or, A Moderate depict* with a 
isl class llmmuis or second class M aster's decree, in 
In -mlogx ol an Imlian l inxoisitx; 

Or. 

I I (|iih .1 lent loioign q u«i lilii ations , 

Or. 

b *' ' andub’te lias nth"iwiw> a peed a« adoinu iccmd a 
1 ' 1 " * * ‘ M.ixtoi’s degnm \ntli >U'IMI(I class lloiiouis 
th. Iiachidoi 's degier in IMixsmlogx phi, ( io> \o,ns* 
'P ,,n - c\pci M'licc in a iceogniscd College as a whuie- 
tc.clici m tbc sub icc t The period of teaching 

tpericnce may be relaxed at the discretion of the 
Dinmission. 

Desirable in Hood powm ol expulsion .n Bengali - 
wnt ton: ( ii ) M It. II s Degree o| an Indian 

tin < ' \ Age: \ T r ,t moic than .C» xeais on tbc 1 st May 

icl.i\aMc lor , specially (pialifiod candidate-. and t u 
,,ol<ll "r T s,, bstant i \ v appointment in the Kdueation 
'twmiMnt West Bengal. 

Cosing date The 29th May 1962. 


Assistant Veterinary OfficGr in the West Bonga 

T a| Service. Post trnmomn Pay: IN. -V) N> .y,i 

''b 1 ! d ii and lbtli stages) per niontli. 

Qualihcauons: Essential A .1,.,.,,,. .i,,,|„ lllll „ 

("» '•«>"( Uuco vri.c- „ 

' ' vnrk - prctci erne being •jivci) to those wiLl 
J , N (11 * f . <M nninagciiicnt <»l a huge herd ot cattle in ; 
• ,,, V ni v ' irable - Post graduate training in ain 
•L' ' . 11 , dntion in India or abiond on some aspect) 
i.r.rli . management. piolerably on the subject ol 

i>i 1 inhMoiojry and artificial in, seminal ion Age 
mi, t ,. r i 1,1:111 vi‘ars on tin 1st Max PKJ2. rclaxablc to. 
' M V well qualified ami e\pei iem*ed and ahf 

*' ‘ 1 Mroi'iVt 10 ( s,, bstantive appoint meiit undn 

c,os ing date -The 29th May 1992. 


Age concession 

l!s l*ii * < a'^i' ,(>I fb<’ po,t' is . elavardr* b\ fn« 

l‘l.i* ecf 11 e J? Pistes /Tribes and lip to 4b yeait> ior 

1 coin Pakistan. 


A i ambda I e who bctoie the l*>tb Align * IP IT. i\«> 
detained, iiupi i soiled, mteiiied or <'\teimd on ae< ounf of 
lim lui at 1 1 \ it io , mi connection willi the (’ouutix’s 
s1Miiv.de lor iiidcpendem e. not In mg ion\nted o| all 
off c in c imlu.itnig im.ial * in pit mb', shall lie entitled In 
como-,m»M m i expert of tbc uppei age limit 'I lie .on 
««'s, am granted Will be equal <o the t'\ai t pen**) ot 
detent ion , impi lsonmeiit. internment oi exti'i niueiit 

: u1i ,, i ed uj» to a maximum ol tour years. 

Vppl' l«> Set I* I a i \ with a Tien-riw ('bal.iii ol 
umb*i head ‘ \\I M i>< < > llam‘oU«< lleteipt.-, ol Pubiu 
Scixiic ('iiiiiini .sioii West Hi'iigaP'. or a Crossed Postal 
Older ol Its. b ji.i.xable lo “Se.ietai x. Pubiu Sei \ l. i* 
( oiiiniission, \\ i*st Bengal Ox ei seas candidates m.iv 
deposit then appln at mil lees with the High Commission ot 
India oi the Indian Kmba^sx as the ease max be P.ut*- 
cub. is and pi escribed apple at ion loinis obtainable trom 
1 be otbee ot l he Commission. Amleisoti House (ground 
II* .oi ) . Ahpi.ie Cab ut t a-i?. , personallx o? on sending a 
selJ-addiessed large envelope with postage stamp ot 
P nh, and the inline ol the post superscribed on the 
envelope. Those who mt« nd to take application hums 
and/m submit the applications pet sunnily should do so 
between l<Mo n.m and d-00 p.m. on full woikmg daxs 
and between IU-|*> a m. and VJ-.AU pm. on Saturdays, 

A C. ROY. Secietar.x 
Pubiu Seixiee Commission. West Bengal. 
All poie. i lie ‘J7fb April 1 


Advertisement No. 28 


A COM PITPi'IIN K K \ A M I NATION will be held in Cal- 
cat i a in dune B)ti*J lot mm iuii meiit (*t BKN(iAld STKNO- 
(JRAPIIKRS in the Secretariat under the (Jovermnenl ol 
West Bengal. S (; ,|,. o| pay Its _MXi |(M) plus bouse rent 
adowame. it admissible. 


Qualifications: srliool Final Kxaimnatmn Ceitdieaie 

Ol it^ cqinx alent . (ID \bilitv totxp" in Bengali at tile lale 

O* ‘jn w oi ds pel minute and to take short hand dictation in 

Bengali at a uniloim -peed ot 100 words nei minute, 
(in I \ge below ‘2 > xeais on 1st Jiilx l!»(i2, be perioil ot 
( out nmols tu nr being deducted in t lit* ease oi a person 
lempor.il il\ bolding a post o| Bengali St enoyi aplier in the 
W ‘ "*1 Bengali Set ietaii.it l ppei age limit is relaxable up 

to ‘.(I x.'.n . I oi a » oididatc* holding a peimanenl post mub r 

f*o\ oi nuieiit Cppn age-bmii *s also iclaxahle uv live 
.xeais t oi candidal os belonging to Scheduled Cast es ( 'I i ibe a 
and bx i In eo xeais lot displaced pci sous from Pakistan and 
lot ci ltaill eCiei ategorie- ol candidates 


l>ctnih'| i>i. > t n uia i s and ajipluatmu lorm obt.i u.ible (liei- 
oi cost) lioni Bull Max P.Mig hom tin oflii e o, tlic Pubiu- 
<<‘rxiee ( oein.: ion WiM Bengal Andeison IIoiim 
( ground floor), Alipoie. ( aleutt a 27 personallx oi »/ii 
sending a s< ||-add!c>M>d hi i _i<* enx elope (si/,e BP-.'P) wuli 
postage Uamps woitb C> naxe pai.se atlixed I hereon '^bo^^ 
who iliteml to take apple at ten toim c‘te. and 'oi submit 
file application,, pc'sniinllv -1 oubl do so betw(*en lib lb a. III. 
un^ A p in on luM xxoikin;* da.x , and between 10 I”) u m. 
and 1? to pm on Satuidaxs Applications (xvilh two 
copies ol iM,sp,,,| pilot ogi iipbs ) lo be siilmnl td in ■ b> 

iMeseiilwd tone with a ( ’os ed PoHal Oi del o! IN If) 
payable lo “Iln S. i i et a t x Pubiu Sen ice CniuniuM hi. 
West I5«ng.«r . oi , 'lien am Chilian lot 1C 10 undrj ju*ad 
“XXI M e,( dlam « ii' Pe.eiuts ol Public S,»r\ e c Com- 
mission Most lien gii I ’ 1 lie ('oinmiHsion max remit feci 

of g« nime'lx indigmo and bona tide displaced persons \ 

• nndida'e seekin** iemi-sm of le**- will liowexer, be 
i eq in red t < » pax tin pi esei i » *( d h • along vxitli tlie apnlna 
turns. h be iippeais at the ex.iniuia I mu and sahufu' 1 h< 

( 'ommi'-non • li.it lie is a bona fide displaced pci son in 
indigent ■ imiiiu1,iiii c who .an ill aflmd to pay the l< • 

1 be aimm.it mud dial! be iclmidcd to him. 


Closing date for filing applications 28th May 1962. 


A C ROY. Sec i et :i i \ 

Pubiu ^ci \ ii e Commission \\ esf Ib ngaf 

Alip'irr the AOth April B)(i2 



202 


TIIE ('ALCTiTTA GAZETTE. MAY 10, 1962 


1 Pakt || 


Advertisement Ho. 29 

APPLICATIONS are invited liom Indian citizens Ioi t he 
In] lowing posts: — 

( a ) On** Assistant Professor of Radiology, Bengal 
Veterinary College, In the West Bengal Veterinary Service. 

Po t temporary Pay* Its. JOO JO !M)0 (K.B. a Ifni v *i!i 
and Pit h Siam*") pin month plus house lent alluwait< c nr, 
admissible ui.d'M the ritle->. 

Qualifications: Essential -Mcmhciship of the Koval 
College tti Vet« rmary Surgeons ol the l mtod Kingdom o! 
M Sr. in Veterinary Science ol an Indian or Jctreign 
\ nix it '.it} ; Or, Degiee ol diploma in Veterinary Sen m e 
tinni a recognised Institution w it h post-graduate degree ui 
diploma m V eta* n miry Radiology. Desirable — (i) Teaching 
experience in Veterinary Surgery or Yetcriiuny Anatomy 
or Veterinary Radiology; ( 11 ) Experience ot Radiologiial 
work; (iii) Knowledge ot Bengali— spoken and written 
Age: Between 25 and -15 years on the Jlst December BM.2 
relaxablo in the ease ot candidates possessing exceptionally 
high qualifications and lor jiersuns holding suhstanmc 
appointinent under t he Central or a State Government. 

(hi One Hindi Education Officer in the West Bengal 
Educational Service. Post temporary. Pay Hs. J25 — .‘Ml 
175— 35 1,000 pei month plus home rent allowance .is 

admissible under the* rules. Higher initial pay up to 

Its. 175 may he granted on t lie basis oi qualification.-, a. id 
expel iciiee. 

Qualifications: Essential— (i) A second class Master’s 
degree in Hindi ol a recognised Vimorsitv, Or, A second 
i lass Master’s degiee o| a reeognised Cnixersily with eiilur 
Hindi as a subteci, in the Bachelor’s degree or Kovid 

Diploma or e<|Ui\alent qiialifieation ; (n) (j!oo< 1 powei .»! 

expiessnm in Bengali spoken and written; (in) Thioe 

.1 ears' teaching or adminisl ratn e experience in a recognised 
Kdueatomil Institution. Desirable A degree or Diploma 
iii teaching of a recognised Unix ci sitv. Age: Not mot > 

than *15 years on the 1st .lone 1002, u*la\ahle in the x.«m 
ol candidates possessing except lonnlix higli qualilicat ions 
and ioi* persons holding siihstant ix e appointment in the 
Kdmatinn Department, We.-d Bengal. 

(v) One Bacteriologist, Central Livestock Resoarch-cunv 
Breeding Station, Haringhata, In the West Bergal General 
8ervlce. Post penmmenf hut tin* appointment will .><• 
made on temporary nasi- Pay: Its. 300— 30-000 (E.B. 
nttei ^t h and Kith stages) per month 

Qualifications: Essential (i) M.Se. in Bacteriology 

( 'hem ist ry / Micro-biology oi a degree in Science with 
Chemistry or Zoology or Physiology in the B.Se. course 
plus a diploma m Dairying or a degree in Dairy Science/ 
Vetennary Science; ui) At least three years’ experience 
ol work in tin* quality coutiol la hoi a lory ol a modern danv 
plant Desirable (i) Knowledge o| technique in the a mix 
ol bacteriological quality ol milk ami milk products, watei 
supply, etc., (n ) Knowledge ol Bengali spoken an- 1 
written. Age: Between 25 and 35 years on the 1st lime 
1!H»2, relaxahle m the case ol an « xccpl tonally qualified 
candidate. The age-limit is not applicable to a person in 
Government mm vice. % 

Age Concession 

The upper age-hunt lor all the posts. is iclaxahle by ,ix c 
years Ioi Scheduled Castes /Tribe-. and up to 15 veals lor 
displaced persons horn Pakistan. 

A candidate xxho holore the 15th August, 11)47. was 
detained, imprisoned, interned, or externed on aeemint of 
his/her activities in connection xxith the country’s struggle 
lot independence, not being convicted of an offence indi- 
cating moral turpitude, shall he entitled to a concession 
in respect of the uppei a go-1 unit. The concession granted 
w ill he equal to the exact period oi detention, iinpnson- 
ment, internment or externment suffered up to a maximum 
ol lour years. 

Apply to Secretary with a Treasury chalaii of R,>. 5 
under head “XXI — Miscellaneous- -Receipts ot Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal’', or a Classed Postal 
Order ol Rs. 5 navahle to “Secretary, Public Service Coin- 
mission, West Bfeilgal’N Overseas candidates may deposit 


their application tees with the High Commission () . 
oi the Indian Embassy, as the case may he. p’ 'I* 1 
and prescribed application forms are obtumahh 1 1 ,,V .. r 
office ot the Commission, Anderson House (groan, ;* V 1,1 
A lipoi e, Ca lout tit-27, personally oi on sendin > /"T 
addiessed lnige eii\ elope with postage stamp ,,| M 1 
and tin* mum* of the post superscribed on the ,. n ’’ 11 
riio.se who intend to take application hums ami ' | ’ iH 
the applications personally, should do so hel xx< )n.| ‘ 
and 3 p. ui . on lull wmking days and between In | , 1 11 
and 12 A!) p.m. on Satuidays 

Closing date The 4th June 1962. 


A ( ROV >eci(tai 
Public Semen Commission, \\ # j p, 

A lipoi e, the 2nd May 1002. 


APPLICATIONS are inxited iroin Indian citizens ,| omiul( 
m West Bengiii tor appointment to the posts ()! < ” 

Ixpists in the I )i x lsional Forest Office, > undci tin- | , ((( "' 
Diret tor.ite. Filteen per cent, and 5 jht eeni o| 
x acancms will he nsmiil lor candidates helongm L . u, iij 
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Trihcs <ommnmi\ M 
Iixely, .siihject (o availaliilily ol qualified mtidid.iic* i„: 
I ha i (ommuiiity Scale of pay: R |*J5 ;i | |u ; 

( F B. altei 10th stage) plus othei allowame a- ,aiiiii« 4 J,|, 
umh'i the mles and oidei.s. Qualifications : (n h„, 

passed or its cquixalcnt, (ii) a liniiiiiiiiiii ty pcxx i miig 
ol 25 uoids pei minute. Age not moie than 25 \ T.i , ' m 
1st January 1002 (iclaxable by h\e year*, ioi nIkS-umI 
Castes Tribes candidates and up to 15 yoais ioi di'|»l.iu,| 
persons Irom East Pakistan). Selection (,,» ( .iii.ln I u<- 
"'ll he asked to appear ioi an interview al any n> i„ 
Dixismnal Forest Offices mentioned below on ,J nm-' <)M ; ,, 
l!H>2 lot a preliiiiuia i y sVlection when thex nun 
the educational, chaiaclei and other ci rt ificiilcs Ml 
(h) Candidates so selected will he icquiied to m: «-n , 
,,M '*it o| Rs. o as lee. Ioi a com |)et 1 1 1 \ c c\a iiun n im i, 
.Mat lieiuat ics, English Composition. Pn»ei- \\ i « 1 1 n - ,i,.i 

Dieiatimi xvhich xx ill he held on June U and K) I‘»«i2. 
taneously at Calcutta and at the headquarters ol tin | ( >: , M 
Dixisions mentioned below (e) No ad m it ( aid mli - 
issued unless the examination iec ol Rs. '» js. pawl n.,..,.- 
(liatelx on pieliimuary selei’tiou. (d) I he xai'amnos x\n! i 
lilled in l>\ passexl candidates in older ol met it t»n the osiiit 
ot the examination. The posts are 1 1 anslei able \ pj-Miru- 
ments will he inaxle on K'lnporaiy basis m the inst msi.nic 
s|| h|eet to sat lslaetorx anieet dents and medual e\a - 11 , 11 .. 
turn Permanent absorption w ill he made horn t mo* in 
lime according to the' xacancjes axailahh'. 

Applx on plain pap(*r in own fi.mdvvnnng to Hie » .r : 
Conseixator o| Forests, West Bengal. Wntris’ Bipkiin^, 
(’alcutta-l. through am EmployiiiCiit Exch.inge - 1 .t t ..n 2 : 1 

Naim* ami addicts, (hi Fathei s name, ( 111 ) Hale «'i l»ii 1 : 
(,x> Fdm ati«»na I (jualifieations ; ( x > centic \\li<n w' 

candidates like lo he* mien jewed and examine,! t-m In-.'.' 
attested copies of (a) School Final and othei cdii<:iii<'i 1 
con ihcat< .« HD relugee. Scheduled (’astes/Ti ihe* < * * 1 1 1 f ■ 
m proper urn: and txvo cliaracti't* cei I ifieat c*s. Tiic .n- 1 
datx's should st'iul oik sell-addrcsstd mist amp* d 1 no M* 
A pplieatmvis i<*eeived duvet will he reps-ted. (It Will not 

be necessary for the candidates to register their names in 
the Employment Exchange.) The I Kirest Dixisimu! h* .«d 
imarters are at Darieeling. Kiirseong. Kalmi])om: ^il 
Jalpaigun Raiahhatkhaxva (’ooch Behai, MniiKipro 
Jhargram Bankura, Buidwau, Puruha. Sun, K 1 » 1 < 

Mnldaand C ahutta. Any attempt on tlie part ot « » in I u la 1 * - 
to enlist support ot their applications through pci^on*' 
infliH'iiee ,»r tiffieials ol Government w ill d'squalM* da m 
Ioi ajipointment spontaneous j econimendat icn- i' nU£ 

persons interestexl in the candidates or otherwise know 11 i" 
tlu'in will be disregarded and th<*ir ajiplical ions will ^ u j 
1 ejected w it bout any lelerenec. The last date ot mm-v.ih 
a pplications by’ the Employment Exi'hange is May 21 1 r *' - 1 

A PPLK *A I ION’S aie inxited only Irom male carnh'Ht' 
who must be. Indian citizens domiciled in West r>cuu'*d 1 
appointment to the* post of Deputy Ranger/ Forester- ni 
x arious Forest l)ix isiotis of M’est Bengal. F'ittceii ) ,(, i 1 :l 

.,ml j pei cent of the xoicancies will be reserved toi 
dates belonging to the Schidulod Castes and S( he4u't' 
Fribes community respectively subject to availability 0 



THnT It] 


THK CALCUTTA GAZKTTK. MAY 10, 1962 


203 


l,fi r( l candidates from that roimmmiix. Scale of pay: 
i "i- 3 I H*~ 1 -200 (K.B. after 10th stage) plus oliur 
Jkiwntiee as admissible under the* rules and oidcib. 
oualifications: School Final passed or its eqmx alent . Ag6 
n,it more than 23 years on 1st January 1 ?H >1?. The 
I )t rehixahle hy 5 yeais in the eases ot Schedule! 
( and Scheduled Tiihes candidates Selection: (a) 

l \ilidid >tcs will he asked to appeal lot an inlet \ lew at any 
{ * l) M > Ihxisioiial Finest I ifhees nu'ii I iotieil he low on 1 1n 
!,th and Otli dune. 1002, toi a preliminary selection when 
i, mi . I pmd in e the edin itional, chaiacter and mbci 
, j Pira'e . m oi Initial i I * ) < .mdidates mi selected Will Ic 
M . ()l ,,ird to k ii, on pax llieiu ol Its o as lee Ini a eotll- 
‘nine examination in Mat hemal u s, Faighsh Composition. 

|. w rit m«4 and Dictation which will hr held on June 0 
irl ,| pi |'J(>2, siimdlatieoush at Calcutta and at the head- 
i| ii i , t ci s ol the Forest Di\ lsioiis mentioned below, (e) No 
t • ard will he issued unless tin* examination fee ot 
|{s :> is paid unmediatelx on preliminary selection. <d) 

| lie \ ,ie meies will he filled in hy passed candidates in order 
0 ( met 1 1 on the result ot the examination. The posts me 
pan h table. Appointments will he made on temporary 
: n the fitst instance suhieet to satislaetoi .\ allies c 
dmit- and medical examination. Permanent absorption 
mil he made Irotn time to time act online to the xaeaiicies 
:n tillable subject to successful eompletion of the Foies*era’ 
Laming Course Im one year. 

\ppl\ on plain paper in own handwriting to the l hie: 
('oiist i \ at oi ol Purest s. West Bengal, Writers’ Buildings, 

C. dr’.t t - 1 . through any Kmploxment Kxebango stating <C 
y.iinr ,md addicts, (n) FatheiPs n. me. (in) Date ui iuiih, 
i n ) Kdiic.it i on a I pualifu atoms (\ i Centre while the 

* :i in I n lit t «• likes lo he mteixiexxed and ( summed, enclosing 
,i it ***- 1 «•< I topics ot (a) School Filial and otliei educational 
(('ill lie ii^es (h> j of ugee, Scheduled Caxtos/Tnbos C'nt 1 - 
lieaies in proper ionn Candidates should send one m P- 
.wldies^od un-xtaniped envelope. Applications ic*eeix<*d 
clu < * t will he -ejected (It will not be necessary for the 
candidates to register their names in the Employment 
Exchanges). The Pored Di\im>n;d headquarter s are «*t 

D. ii ic< 'flic. KuiM-oiig Ka I mi pong. Sdiguri, Julpuigui j. 
I!,i|.ih|mi kliaxx a. Cooeli Bchar, Mxlnapoie f lhargram 
ll.mkuiu Buiduan. Pniulia, Sun. Kiislmagui, Malda ami 

* ah ut t .i A ii \ attempt oil lilt part o! laudidalcs to enlist 
‘ipp* *i * ,i t hen applications through peiMUis ol influence 

"i nltn :aL ot Government, will disqualify them tor apjminC 
incut <oont anemis recommendation* Irom persons in- 
‘•cn-'ie*! in i he eamlidates or otliei wise known to them will 
lie (Inn miidt d and then applications will he rejected with- 
out un\ ret * i < iic*.-. 'I’lie last dute ol receiving application 
In i lie Kiuployment Fxebango is May 21, 1 Of >2. 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, HOWRAH 

Insolvency Case No. 13 of 1962 

f D\ K not a e that an application lias been hied hx Tata- 
■ImiiI sharm.i, son ol llarchal Shaima, ot ID Belur Hoad, 
M< ^ 1 ' ' * Dion Ballx, district Howrah, lor hem's adjudged 

1,1 '"’“•’"iH f he* a p|iliea t loti lias hc-c’ii admitted and fixed 
Aith M i\ lp(j‘j ini hearing;. 

lhl>K(tllllih, Distllcf Judge 

( 121 l) 


,N ™E COURT OF THE SUBORDINATE JUDGE, 
ASANSOL 

Insolvency Case No. 9 of 1962 

1 1 1 1 « v n , * i - I uni, .Maji, son of late Kala Maji, residing at. 
•luipnr SCOB. HSCo. Ltd., Biirnpui, police-station 
, ' M,, i Chowki. A san sol. district Burdwan, 

1 No. PJ2/137, Traffic Dept, IISCo. Ltd.. Burnpur. 

!' ( . } ‘ f **>fdied that tin ahovc*nained petitioner ha, 
J 0 adjudged an msolvem. The Court has icgC- 
h,. lllt u, ; ,fc n l»pIieation and fixed 24th May 1W>2 for ihe 
thereof. 

N. C. DATJ’Aj Subordinate Judge. 

(419—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUBORDINATE JUDGE, 
ASANSOL 

Insolvency Case No. 10 ot 1962 

Peiilmm i Banicswai Bliakat, snii ot late 1* Bhakat, 

I Nn >121 Blast Furnace Dept 1 1 S( V/. Ltd., 
Bui njuu 

II l hi ic lr imt , to d that the ahoxcnaimd p<’tr.mmi has 
applied i«* In* adjudged an mxolxen 4 I lie t’cmit aa h /j,. 
tend th*l application and hxed *>th Jilin l'*i*2 Pm • t,< • 
heal ill;*, till u ot . 

V (' DVTTA. Mllntllluuli J lid •• 

< 120 I) 

IN THE COURT OF THE SUBORDINATED UDGE, 
BHAGALPUR 

Title Execution Case No. 35 of 1961 

Mali. ml Krishna Mohan Das, Dcciccrinldci 

vr I SllS 

Naiesli Mob. ill Mishra and utlieis, Jiiclgenienl dehtois. 

Notice to <iii«’iidia Prasad Singh, son c»t late Bam- 
khelawan Lai ol < fiampanagjw, pola-e-stat ion Nahh- 
uagar. Bhagalpur (Bihai), at jut semi ic iding, ai I /I 
Palm \ \ < line*, opposite ' nghl Si reel , Calcutta K» 

\i>(‘ a r* * h« n*|ix mlormc'cl tlmuigh tins Notne lh.it the 
a box enot e* I Dceieeholdei lias filed all Kxeeutioii C,»,«i 
agaiiisi xnii ten IP >DH .VI ui*. and the* date lixcd m this 
Case is JJnd Max BM»2. ll pm Jiaxe an\ oh|,>etmn ; lieu 
pie* ( lit x< in r*- c*l t m person or thmugh a laxxxei on l In I.P** 
fixe d * • i the* Pxeeuhcin ('he will he heard ill yoin ah .cnee 

(-i'c*n end • mix .agii.iluie and * he Se al ol I In cotuf <m 

DC B(i \ Pit \SAD. 

Sill)-.) ildge 111 eha I ge 

l I 12 n 


fyjfr jTRt h n tt 

irtht wy, 

J PT WV-* Jo 

M-’jy mt — M" 

■f-yy mfcM ’Tt'J»TKr— -mio 

hP. ••pfra, To TT*f)*r wit ttf 1 ;, <ii-> <( >rr>u 
'TP-jrm, to 3*«nrPTT, a f^n^r naa*r — 

fTSRTTFr, iTJTFFT^f T^-f.fTT, % T'T dPvT^-I *1 

?3pri f?>fr wirpn To - jpt % z>\ TiMr 

?T fart fTTTT f, ’ frr TTT RT TTTTf TIT Ml CT JfTTTT 
7,rI>TFT ft ^TTffY f, fT 3fTT TR 3KF7T T TTTRrM \ '■ Tlf' 

\ th r’.-'o snpr ffurr frrr t mt tt wf, \ 

arra TT O V TTg TT l ^ Jo RTT -TT' 

SKT'TT T MT F7 fTTT TTr I 

TTTT — Tomrr jTTST fTTlTT \ ! '*"(?) T 

rttPt •irf^T T im;nr tt tr ?tt tiP?t i 

(eR?)*SfT 

'TT 7 'TTT'Yr-.I 

(406- 1) 



‘204 


THE CAMTTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


I Part i| 


( OUI’ANY I'K'IIIION N.. IWi OK }!Mil 

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
Original Jurisdiction 

In the ni.ittn nt t In* 'nrnpanm. Alt. r» .(> 

Ami 

It* I he ih.«H( i ft n apple item uudei -irtioiix 4 1.4 and 
nl t hr said Art 

And 

In th»> iii.il t ri <>t M ( 4i.it In ice A < <» (Finale) Ltd. 

\ | ;i t ii U< I t A Co < Km tili-m ) Pi i\ ate Limited. 

Pot i1 mnnr. 

ADVERTISEMENT OF PETITION 

NOTK'K IS lint i 'l> v HIM'I) Unit ji petition tor t lie w indmg-up 
oj the dim eiiiimeil Company »>.v the High Court at v al- 
cut t .i iris on the ‘27th das nt *eplc n.lier 1001 presented to 
the said (fin t h\ Messrs A Talukilar A' Co ( I* el t ilisers ) 
Prnnte Limited basing its l cgistmvd oflirr at No. !•>, ( live 
|{ OH ('ahutta. as a eieilitor and tti.it t 1m> said petition is 
duelled to lie healtl helore the Couit oil the .With das oi 

Alas i:h;2. 

Aim i i editor, eont nliiit ors or othei prison desirous ol 

Ml | >| in l 1 1 1 1 * r ol opposing the making nl an older nil the said 
petition should send to the petitioner oi his Solicitor notice 
o! Ins intent ion sinned hs him nr his Adsoeate with hi* 

name and achliess, so as to leaeli tie* petitioner _ or hi*. 
Solicitor not l.der than A <lass helore the date fixed lor 

tiie lieaiim nl the petition and appear at the healing lor 

the purpose m poison oi h\ Ins adsocafe A eopv ol the 
petition will he furnished h\ the iindei signed to any 
ci ('dii or nr contributors on pavineut ol tlie pieserihed 
charges t oi the same. 

\ ns’ aihdas it mteiuleil to he »l-«‘d ill opposition to the 
pet. lion hmdd he tiled in Cmiif, and a < ops sms ed on the 
pH p mum nr his ^oleiloi not less than n da\s helme the 
date fi \erl Jm the healing. 

S \ KHAN, 

Solicit oi lor the Petitioner 
|n Old Post Other St i ert Cal' nt i t 


din i> 


said Court hv Messrs. Sitaiain Kiswanath Pi.isad oi 
Kail oh Hose’ Street. Calcutta, a mditor, and that D,, 
>aul petition is diieeted to hi heaiii helore the Com t 0lJ 
the ‘j^tii da S' ot Mas PHi‘2. 

An.' meditor. eont iilni l oi \ or nt In i person de.uoa, 
Mippmtmg or opposing the making ot an oulei on tin -*,] 
pi t it mu slinii’d send t « * th" petitioner or its atlniivT mmIk 
ot In ■ ii t cut mu signed hs him or his attoines or Hd\n<,i. > 
witli h.s name and uddresn, o as in leiu h the petit mur n , 
it- attnrne' nut later than n dass leloie the 1 1 a t •* lixr.j i, r 
the he, n iiilj: nt the petition and appeal at the Ihmiiii ■ t«,, 
the purpose in pel > on or hx his attorney m ad\n<a|. \ 

• ops o| the petition will he furnished hv the uudei sign, ,| 
to ans < red it oi or eont rdmt oi v on pasment m t | t , 
presinhed charges tor the same. 

Ans affidavit intended to he used in opjiositinn to t h*. 
petition should he filed iu Couit and a cups w<isif| on i,h 
petitioner oi its attorney not. less than o class l.eloir i„h 
date fix-si tor the hearing. 

Dated this Aid May 1<H>2. 

N. K. DASfS P P i .\ 

Attoines loi the petitionei 
ID Old Post Oflic v Street (V<ui;, 

( t( d 1. 


lOMPANV PETITION No. OK ,f M,2 

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
Ordinary Original Civil Jurisdiction 

111 i he Mattel o! Complines Art , Dot) ( \et I ol Pt/Hii 
A nd 

In the Mattm nt an appluation un lei motion. 1 ' ’ and C 
ol I lie siild Ait 

And 

In tin M ,.t ti’i ol Western India Aie ANeldngCo 
Private Hid 

Sh.ilimai Paint Coloui and Yarumli (o Ltd IVtiMon.i 

NOTICE i- l.cichy gisen that a petition Ini tin- windoi.. ‘S' 
ot tlie ahn\ mneni loned Company hs the High Cmiii 

ut <111 the 2nd das ot April l!Mi‘2 presmned t" »»* 

sani Couit hv the said Compans and that the said petition 
is diieeted to he heani heiorc the Couit on tin 2M la' 
ol Mas 1 WJ. 


COMPANY PETITION V» 74 01- IDD‘2 

IN THL HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
Original Jurisdiction 

111 tlie limiter ol the ColillMIlH s Art . P r D 
And 


Ans medilor. eont i ihotors oi oflur person h -nnm ''i 
siippot t mg oi opposing the making nl an oidm mi ‘In *»>•' 
petition should send to the petitioners o» then minimi- 
tintin' n| hi- intention signed hv h»in or his ads o« ate « ' 
his name and address not latm than •» dass helme t m •' 
ft \ed lor the hearing ol the petition and app< n at < 
hearing lor 1 he pin pose in person or hv his \d\ orate 
« ops oi the petition will he furnished hs the uudei ogii* 
to ans ereditm oi contributory requiring tlie >um mi p* 
ment nl tlie prescribed ehaiges for the same. 


ft, the mattm nl the Howrah I mu »V Steel Smap Dealers 
\s m m I mu Pus ate Ltd has in-’ ils rcgistmcd nfhee at 
|)| \ ha ui Dutta Hoad, llnwiah. West Bengal 


And 


In the matter ol an application uudei section MR ui tne 

Companies \et, 1 RfC> 


NOTICE is herchs - 

ot the abosenamed 
mitt a w r as on the 2 


• IX mi that a petition lot the winding up 
Compans hs the High Court at C al- 
ml das ui April l!Hj‘2 presented to the 


Am aflidasit intended to la* used in opposition 1 
petition should he tiled in court nud a < npy Ibeienl g* ' 
on the pet 1 1 ionm s ot their solicitor- not less than > 
before the date fiveil for tin' hearim:. 

FOWLER A CO 

• Attorneys for the petit mimi s. 

7 Hastings Street Cidrutta 


( 4 A 4 -I 



[MlT II] 


TJIE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


205 


CHANDRA BASH, LL.B., intends to ho enrolled 
- ' Advocate of the Calcutta High (^ourt. 

^ nn A — 4> 


SATVAUANJAN SEN, LL.B., intends to be onrolled 
os ail Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(368—4) 


— — ' ~ RAMABILAS GOSWAMI. LL.B., intends to he enrolled 

as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(369—4) 

i\IL KVMAR SEN/ LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 

S Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

'* n A (351— 4) 

CUHATAR' SINGH HIRAWAT, LL.B., intends to ho 
enrolled a*s an Advocate of tho Calcutta High Court. 

— (370 — 4) 


nmWANATH BANDYOPADHYAY, 

intends to he enrolled as an Advocate, 


M.Com., LL.B., 
Cal. High Court. 

(355 — 4) 


COPAL CHANDRA MOKHOILVDHY AY, LL.B., intends 
to he enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(371-4) 


^11 YAM SCNDAR RATOD1A. LL.B., intends to he 
inrollcd hk ail Advocate of Uio Calcutta High Court. 

(356 — 4) 


SHR1 BIDHSHI RAM, LL.B., intends to he enrolled as an 
Advocate ol Calcutta High Court. 

(372—4) 


Sll Rl SASANKA SEK11AR MIJKHER.TEE, M.A., B.L., 
intends to he enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court. 

(373—1) 


MTAISAM SHAH, LL.B., intends to he cm oiled as .an 

Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

0157—1 > s.\ Ml, KUMAR KAR, IJi.ll., inl.-n.ls to li.s onrolUxl as 

a-n Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(384- 4) 


*1 HAS CHANDRA BASH, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
.is an \d\ocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(358—1; 


MIL MVIIAR RAHMAN 'I' A R A EDA II, LL.B., inLends to 
ho eii* died as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(385—1) 


n:\MI\T KHMAR Cl I ATTORADH YA Y, LL It, intend* 
i" In cniiilU'd as an Advocate ol I lie Calcutta High Coin t 

(359 I ) 


MNTJSKKHAR M HKilOPADH YA Y. LL.B. intends to 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(360—4) 


H'RIXARAYAN PANI1KY, UL.B., intend* to bo onrollod 
as Rn Vdvocate of the Calcutta High Court, 

(361—4) 


RABINDRA NATH GHOSH. B.L., intends to be 
tolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(362 — t) 


dIKu Sll \NKAR SINGH, LL.B, inlends to ho enrolled 
a an Ad\o<ato oi (lie Calcutta. Jligli Con ft. 

(380—4 ) 


\ |{ HP KALMAR* RAY, LL B., intends t 0 he enrolled as an 
Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(3H7— 4) 


KAL1DAS BHATTACHARYYA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate ol tho Calcutta High Court. 

(388—4) 


SHR1 SASANKA BHUSAN GHOSH, LL.B., intends to 
he enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(392—4) 


SHltl SYAMA i'RASANNA RAY CXI A UDHfTRY LL.B., 
intend* to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court. 

(393—4) 



Til E CA UTJTTA (GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


‘20(i 


' jj 


JYOTIRMOY DATTA GUPTA, M.A., LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate oi the Calcutta High Court. 

(402 — 4) 


RANEN MI TIM, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate oi the Calcutta High Court. 

(403 — 4) 


HI SWA X ATI I KHANDELWAL, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(404—4) 


SUmilNDIM Cl I AN DU A SARlvAR, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(40ft— 4 ) 


CIIITTARAN.IAN DAS LL.B.. intends to he enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(406 — >1) 


BISWANATH KKDIA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate ol (he Calcutta High Court. 

(407- 1 ) 


RADII \KltlXHN \ AG A R W A LA , LL.B. , intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 408 — 1 ) 


BUIMXG PR ASA D DALMIA, LL.B, intends to he on- 
rolled as an Adxocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(409- 4) 


BIMAL CHANDRA GHOSH, LL.B.. intends to he enroll- 
ed as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(410—4) 


MOHAN L\L VARMA, LL.B.. intends to be enrolled as 
an Adv(/cate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(412—4) 


AMALKANTi SARKAR, M.A LL.B., intends to bo 
rolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. ei 

( 414-4 


SATYENDRA NATH MAJUMDER, B.L., intends to 
enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court at Caloutt 

( 416 —. 


ANIL CHANDRA SEN, LL.B., intends to he enrolled 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( l-(i- 


GOV IN D PRASAD SHARMA, LL.B., intends to 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High ('lint 

027 - 


A SIM KUMAR MITRA, LL.B., intends to b« entullid 
an Advocate oi the Calcutta High Com t. 

\ 12s 


MONORANJAN ROY, LL.B.. intends to he enrolled ,e 
Advoeate, Calcutta High Couit. 

( 12*'' 


BADRINARA^AN suit, LI. R, intends to he emolOt 
an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court 

03H 


SUHI SATTMYKNDRALAL BANDYOPAPHYA f, U 
intends to join as an Advocate in the Calcutta High On 

(430 


JYOTl SADHTTKHAN, M.Com., LL.B., intends w 
admitted as an Advocate of the High Couit. 


GTTANATH GANOOPADHYAY, M.A., I.L.B., intends to 
bo enrolled as iwi Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(413 — 4) 


RANAB KUMAR MITKHOP ADH Y AY . LL.B.. "i 

— - A j . , ... i j.l.. + + Hltrll i -OlH 


■n<b 






( 433 - 



I'akt II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


207 


„ H RJ OH1KKNDRA Kl’MAl? MAZl'MDKK intends to be 
Emitted as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(434 — 4} 


MRODBARAN BH ATTACI1AR YYA, LL.B., intends to 
j H , enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(4:w — 4) 


|»K A NAB KRISHNA DAS, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
i( „ an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

( 13 (> — 1 ) 


IMMrUBLLA CHANDRA MUKHERJEE, M.A., B.L., 
intends to he enrolled as an Advocate, of Cal. High Court. 

(437-4) 


‘dim N1KENDRA NATH SEN GUPTA, LL.B., intends to 
enmlled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Comt,. 

(438 — 4) 


Dl'ill V\TI I MUKHOPADU VA V, M.A., hh II., mlcnds lo 
l»c cm oiled as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court 

(144—4) 


TR1LOCHAN M AHA PATH A. LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court,. 

(449—4) 


SUNIL RANJAN SARK AIL LL.B.. intends lo be enrolled 
as uu Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court 

(150 4 ) 


SUNIL (llANDRA MUKHER.JEE, LL.B., intends to ha 
enrolled as an Advocate of tin* Calcutta High Court. 

( 451 — 4 ) 


SAKO.T KUMAR Cl I .VITER J EE. LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(45a— D 


SUBRATA GUPTA, LL.B , intends to ho enrolled as an 
Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(453—4) 


BALADEB M UKIIOPADH YA Y, LL.B., intends to ho 
enrolled as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(454 — 4) 


SHIM ATI M A N I SI I A SIL, LL.B., intends to he enrolled 
as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(455 \) 


I DILIP KUMAR GHOSH, intend to bo enrolled as an 
orate nt the Calcutta High Court. 

(415 — 4) 


SUNIL KUMAR CIIAUDHURI, LL.B, intends In be 
enrolled as an Adxoeate oj the* Calcutta High Court. 

(45b 4) 


•' l ‘ a HOSSA1N. LL.H., intends to be 
of the Calcutta Nigh Court, 


enrolled as an 


( 440 — 1 ) 


RADIIA RAMAN PAL, B L , intends to he enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(457 — J) 


AJIT KUMAR CHAKRABABTT, LL.B., intends to he 
enrolled as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court 

(458 - 1 ) 


* nr >l|p(l -|*RA^AD BOOB. V 4, LL.B., intends to b* 

an Advocate ot the (Calcutta High Court. SACIHDULAL BANIK. LL B. intends to be enrolled as 

an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(448—4) (459 — 4) 


*'K,,m? 4 NDRA pANDYOPADBYAT, r,L.B., intends 
•iiollpd as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Cent. 

(447—4) 


208 


THE CALCUTTA (i.AZETTK, MAY 10, 1962 


[Pari i| 


Slllt I CU I IT A It A N .1 AN TAFADAR, LL.».. intends to be 
enrolled ns uu Advoeute oi Calcutta High Court. ^ ^ 


SHIMATI MAN.II I-A SEN. LI..R.. intends to 
a., all Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 


be enrolled 
(401—41 


FORM Mo. 151 
(See ltule 315) 


COMPANIES ACT, 1986 

NOTICE UNDER 8ECTION 500 

Re: Messrs. J. N. Chatterjee and Sons (P.) Ltd. 

NOTICE is hereby given that as the Notice No. CUM.; , 
published in the “Calcutta Gazette”, Fart II, dated V,h 
April 190*2, p»ge 147, has been incomplete the meeting )s 
adjourned and is to be held on *21 st May 1902 J G room 
No. 11/44. 12B Netaji Subhas Hoad, Caleutta-l, :;t j p 
to pass the following resolution without modification and 
also to appoint a suitable liquidator — 

“Resolved that the Company be wound up, in view ol 
tbo present position oi the Company.” 

For .1. N. Chatterjee & Sons. <P.) ],t,j 
B. CllATTEH J EE, Director. 


COMPANIES ACT, 1950 

CREDITORS’ VOLUNTARY WINDING-UP 

Notice of appointment of liquidator pursuant to section 618 

Name ol Company : Universal Commercial Agencies (F.) 
Ltd. 

Nature* ol I business: Contractors. 

Address ol Registered Cilice: 31 Uaroda Hasuck Street, 
Calcutta. 

Name* and Address oi liquidator: Sliri L. N. Todi, 4 
.logmuhaii Mulliek Lane, Calcutta-7. 

Dale ol appointment: liitb April 19(52. 

By whom appointed: Appointed by the Creditors. 

(402— 1) 


Cl >MP A N 1 KS ACT, 1 950 


National Vanadium Trust Private Ltd. 


MEMBERS* VOLUNTARY WINDING UP 

Notice of Appointment of Liquidators pursuant to 
section 516 


Naim* tit Company. National Vanadium Trust Pnvate 
Ltd. 


Nature ol Business: Mining. 

Address ot Registered Office: 7, Wellesley Place, 
Caleut ta-1. 


Name and Address of Liquidators. 
Singh, IS. & W.P. Bungalow, 
Tatanagar. 


(1) Sardar Ajaib 
}\0. Indranagar, 


(2) Mr. (\ G. Somiah. District Magistrate, Mayur- 
hhanj. 


Date of appointment: 27th April 1962. 

By whom appointed: By shareholders in their meeting 
held on 27th April 1962. 


For National Vanadium Trust 
Private Limited, 

(in Vol. Liquidation), 

A. SINGH, 

For Self and Co-Liquidator. 

Registered Office* 

7 Wellesley Place, Calcutta-1. 


Dated 3rd May 1962. 


(46S— 3) 


IN THE MATTER OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT, 
1913-36 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF BANSRA COAL CO. LTD. 

UN LIQUIDATION) 

NOTICE is hereby given, pursuant to Section 20M) of tin 
Indian Companies Act VII ot 1913 that a Geneial Medina 
of the members oi the abovoiiamod Company will be helu 
on Saturday, the 9th June 1902, at 10 a.m. at Bl (iilliintlrr 
House, Calcutta, when the Liquidators will lay botW tin 
meeting an at count ot their acts and dealings and ot tIk 
conduct ol the winding up during the year iroin fit h A|»n! 
1901 to 5th April 1902 and a statement in the preM-iilm! 
lorm containing the prescribed particulars with icspout l 
the position ol the liquidation. 

Forms of Genera! Proxies can be had aL the office ol tie 
Liquidators. Proxies to la* used at the meeting imiM in 
lodged with the Liquidators not later than 10 a.m. m lii 
forenoon on the 7tli Juno 1902. 

K. J. II. HARTLEY, 
by his attorney. 

R. N. SEN, 

For Self and Co-liquidators. 


B4 Gillaiider House, Calcutta. 
23rd April J9G2. 


IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 1956 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF BAJPAI MISRA AND CO, 
LIMITED 

NOTICE is hereby given pursuant to section 500 ol d 
Companies Act, 1*950, that a meeting of the Creditury 

ahovenamed Company will he held at, No. 21, yin 
Sett Road, Calcutta-7, the registered office oi th«* l "< 
pany, on the 2nd day ot June 1962, at 4 p.m. to trims* 
the following business : 

(i) To consider the Special Resolution for Volant a 
winding up of the Company proposed to the shai 
holders at the General Meeting to be held <*n i 
June 1962. 

(ii) Either to approve the appointment ol Liquid* 11 
made by the members or alternatively, to noimna 
a Liquidator for the purpose of winding «}> 

(iii) To consider the statement of the position of t 
Company’s affairs to be laid before the nice 
together with a list of Creditors of the C-onip 1 
and the estimated amounts of their claims. 

By order of the Board. 

For Bajpai Misra & Co Ltd 
K. K. BAJPAI, Director. 

(441 — 



|>arT II] 


TTIE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


209 


MENTAL HOSPITAL, RANCHI 

\IKJ)JCAL SUPERINTENDENT, Hospital for Mental 
' Ranchi, invites sealed tenders on behalf of the 

President of India for supply of the following to the 
Mental Hospital at Ranke:— 

v Half-yearly contracts from 1st July 1962 to 3ist 
December 1962 

Schedule No. 1(a): Non-perishable dietary articles, o.g., 
\la<ala and spices. Sugar, Salt, etc. (b) Different kinds 
‘ DJml, Rice, Atta and Flout. Schedule No. 2: IViiah- 
},| (l dietary articles, o.g., Fish and Meat. Schedule No. 3: 
jimcrv and Dry Provisions, e.g., OaLx, Milk ( Evaporated 
,ikI Powder) Canned Fruit and Fish, Coffee, Jams ami 
1 , 11 V, Cigarettes and Matches, etc. Schedule No. 4: 
t ’link inti Media, viz., Ghee ami Vegetable Oils. Schedule 
q 0 5 : Mu. staid On. Schedule No. 6: lea. Schedule 
No! 7: Rutter. Schedule No. 8 : (-oal. Coke and Firewood 
n <] Cattle hmhicr. Schedule No. 9: Indian Conlect lonory. 
Schedule NO. 10: Milk (Fresh Milk). 

i; Quarterly contract from 1st July, 1962 to 30th Septem- 
ber 1962 

Schedule No. 11: (Eggs). Schedule No. 12: (Fruits) 
Schedule No. 13: (Vegetables). 

Separate schedule of quantities tor each of the above and 
temlci terms embodying conditions will be available from 
the Superintendent, Hospital lor Mental Diseases, Ranke, 
l„,.t office Ranchi, at the rate ol six riayo paise pet set. 
Kai nest, money, which should accompany lender, shall be 
ten per cent, ol estimated value ot each schedule to be 
deposited m the manner prescribed vide “Instrmdions ot 
Tenderers’* embodied in the “Conditions ot contract 7 . 
Duplicate samples of each articles should ho submitted in 
wide mouth glass phials and the phials should be half tilled 
with at least two ehattaeks ot the sample labelled properly 
and -ruled. Tenders which are not accompanied by dupli- 
t.M*' sample in proper form and with an up to date Income- 
t.i\ ami Sales Tax Clearance Certificates and necessary 
Kuodgiams Storage and Handling Licences, will not be 
i misideivd. Tins ruling equally applies to newcomers, 
“call'd tenders’’ superscribed “Hospital Diets” will be 
inmnl by the Superintendent, Hospital lor Mental 
lh“ .im's, Kanke, post office Ranchi, up to 4 p.rn. on 7th 
•I inn' 1962. 11 at any time during the period o', contract 

mi \ (ommodity is controlled by Go\ eminent the Contractor 
will siijiplv at the contract rate. Tenders suhmitte<l must 
ii"ld rood up to and for 36th June 1962. If the tender be 
Mdi'h awn before this date, the earnest money of the 
itndciri will be forleitcsJ. 'Tenderers should specifically 
ii"*nt.on m the tender whether the rates quoted are 
niHiisne or exclusive of sales tax. Free delivery at the 
jjdown of Doth the Mental Hospitals. The Diet Commit t.< e 
uv'iw the right, to accept or meet any Lender oi to 
itmnd scheduled quantities without assigning any reason 
"duistun Nationals and Minors are debarred from 
it'iwiermg. 

Ha 1 Diet Committee reserves the right to •motion the 
tender. 

(DA-108(3) /62). 

(422 — 1 ) 


L08T 

1 Shiver mnont Promissory Notes Nos. C A 202779, . 
, .; f 1 A 202780 ot the three per rent, conversion loan 
" 1 H> lor Rs. 1 ,(KK) each originally standing in the name 

yVsnhnli Debi and Mayo Debi either of them, the 
I'JTH' tiosses hy whom they were never endorsed to any 
| (r person, having been lost, notice is hereby given that 
'■ ,,,or, i of the above notes ami the interest thereupon 
„! ! ( ‘ r ' n stopped at the Public Debt Office, Reserve Rank 

Calcutta, and that, application is about to be 
lli,> * <>r ^ho i ss, ie of duplicates in favour of Maya Debi 

: it «i„T V,v,MK proprietress. The public aro cautioned 
* purchasing or otherwise dealing with the above- 
nt,, ™*d securities. 

MAYA DERI, 

1/32/J Prince Go lam Mohammed Road, 
Calcutta-26. 


THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA 

Summary of th* minutes of the Proceedings of 
Commissioners* 1st Meeting, held on the 22nd January 
1962. 

At the 1st Meeting of the Commissioners held on the 
22ml January 1962, the following business was transacted 

1. Enquiry into the financial position of Port: The 

Commissioners approved the Chairman's proposal 
in (lie matter and decided to send a commons atioii 
to Go\ eminent asking lor lit) \ear currency lor the 
loans granted b\ them in terms ol the Chairman . 
note. 

2 . Construction of a suction dredger suitable tor 

dredging in the estuary Third Five-Year Plan: 

the Commissioners sanctioned subject to the sane 
tion oi Government, as a. charge to Capital an 
estimate of Rs. 196 lakhs loi the aho\e woik, 

3. Construction of craft and purchase of technical 

equipment for the Hydraulic Study Department 
Third Five-Year Plan: The Commissioners > on 
finned the placing of orders with James Taylor 
Ship-builders Ltd., lor the construction of the 
htunch at n total estimated cost of Rs. 3,87,867 
exclusive of Customs duty and incidental expen- 
diture and the technical equipment and appliances 
required valued at R's. 11,78,000. 

4. Construction of a new Hospital on Diamond 

Harbour Road-^Third Five-Year Plan: The Com- 
missioners sanctioned subject to the sanction of 
Government as a charge to Capital an estimate ol 
Rs. 67.30 lakhs lor the aho\o work. 

5. Development of a subsidiary port at Haidla- Consul- 

tation with Experts on various engineering 
matters connected with the project and prepara- 
tion of a Master Plan— Third Five-Year Plan: 

The papers wore recorded. 

6 . Renovation of the Dredger “Gunga**— Second Five- 

Year Pfan: The Commissioners san< tinned, sub- 
ject to the sanction ol Government, the placing ot 
an order with the Hooghly Docking and Engineer- 
ing Co. Ltd. lor (allying cut the work ot renova- 
tion ot the Dredger “Gunga” which also includes 
the ioiir-\ early survey repairs at an estimated cost 
ol Rs. 28,10,166, payment lx mg made for UK- 
actual work done at the tendered rates or at rates 
mutually agreed upon. 

7. Accident to the S. S, “Chopo”: The 1m est igating 

Officer's recommendation was appmved. 

8 . Revision of Schedule of Rent Charges for the Com- 

missioners* rentable lands: The Cnmmi.,sioiur., 
decided to adopt tin* revised Schedule ol Reins 
with effect, from the 1st April 1962. 

9. Draft Medical Attendance Rules— Modification of: 

The Commissioners sanctioned subject to the 
sanction ot Government certain modifications in 
1 he definition oi “Public Hospitals” and in the 
matter ot relaxing the above rules in individual 
cases for granting reimbui semonts subject to 
certain monetary limits based on the suggestions 
o| Government. 

16. Election of a Port Commissioner: It, was decided 
to appoint Shri AI. R. Das as a niembei oi the 
Works and Marine Committee. 

11. Port Development Scheme-Third Five-Year Plan: 

The juogicss report lor the quattei ending Lite 
36th September 1961 was recorded. 

12. Establishment of Haidia Docks Acquisition of law* 
Third Five-Year Plan: The Coiiinjis-uoners* vane 
tinned subject to the sanction ot Government the 
expenditme ot Rs 2 (lores tor acquisition ol kind 
tor the llaldia Docks. 

13. Block proposals: The Commix^ imici s aUo ...me 
tinned routine est ahiishincu t pinpoints ;iud routine 
proposals relating to execution ol works, grant ot 
leases, pm chase oi material, remission n! chuigcs, 
etc. 

I\ C, MITTER, Secretary. 

The 3id May 1962. 


( 41 &- 3 ) 


(143—1) 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


I Part h 


THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA 
Notic* for 8alo tindor Motions 118 and IIS of tho Calcutta 
Port Aet III of 1890 (B.C.) 


lifLH in terms of section 
goods accordingly rerun 
before 28th May 1002 < 
Gill, 7th, 8th June 11 
3 K. (1. I>. (() V lined. 


Tho lots imirkoil with ustoriks worn previously withdrawn and will not, ho withdrawn any 
uilliilriiwiil. Mo withdrawal shall ho allowod later- than ono wook allor the. publication of this nolle t . 

LoIh will be open to exhibition us per tihedulo below between ton to fifteen hours : — 

(1) At 5 Calcutta Jetty and lWH(fl) ou 23rd and 24th May 1002. 

(2) At other points on 26th May 1002. 


Each aster ik murk 


Steamer's name 


Date of landing 


Marks an<l numbers 


Quantity and description 


Jalakala 

Ditto 

Mohainmodi 
Jay sheer 


21st April 
Ditto 
26th July 
24tli December 


No Mark 
Ditto 

34/36 4176 or Nil . . 
No Mark . t 


1 bag sweeping. 

1 Bdl Rubber. 

13 bags scrap chemical plastic. 
3 Bells Rubber. 


Steel Navigator 

Loren skerk 
Stad/Alkamar 
H. S. Spray 
Dan-y-Bryno 
Puruia . . 
Ooromondal 
Jag Jamuna 


23rd March 

1st October 
3rd October 
24th October 
6th Novembor 
3()th November 
23rd December 
Voy March 64 


Director of Food Port of Cal Bishop of ****1 C/s m/diso. 
Krisnagar. 

Arun Cal .. 1 C/h in /disc. 

mv 3 304 ::;:i c/" 

. . . . +****♦] bag win 

J5 St 1059 Cal ■ ■ • • • • *****1 Cam «ewi 

. . . . 19 O/s broken m / 

Nil or R D S Madras . . 1 rk £* 

KSSO Karachi or Nil - ■ . . 2 C/s m/d iso. 


1 C/h in /disc. 

**+*[ C/s Essential Lemon ml. 
****** j w bit,p lead. 

**** + 1 Case sewing machino hem Is. 
19 C/s broken m/dise 

1 Pkg. 

2 C/s m/diso. 


Ind Trader 
Nankai-Maru 
Won osar i 
C/O Chester 
Magdapur 
Tabmta . . 
Tampa . . 
Ditto 

Ind Navigator 
Baurom 
C/O Chester 
Matl in rata 
Ditto 

Philosopher 
Kxmouth 
Pad ana . . 


8th March 
20th March 
27th April 
9th June 
19th July 
12th September 
20th September 
15th Sepl ember 
2 1st October 
13th October 
20th Novein hr 
26tli November 
Ditto 
423/66 
661 / 66 
1172/66 


Ditto 

Ditto 

TT-L in a diamond P* L on top 
Sindhri Fertilize*!* P8996/890778 Cal 
Ditto Nil • • • 

Shavan Singh & Dwarka Dan or defaced . 
977 upon AFC Bombay or Nil 
T C K in a diamond 
Nil 

G in a diamond ETC on top 
FIT Cal or Nil 
Ditto 
KLMI Cal 

CARK KD-41 0-861 Madras or Nil 
Kmpiria Calcutta . . 


1 C/h structural material. 
*******2 Drum Synthetic Kashi. 
***1 bag wbitmg spg. 

***1 bag (’al Curb. 

***1 C/s spring »V u/I parts. 
***A cjty of planks. 

1 case m/dise. 

1 Pkg in /disc. 

****2 C/s m /parts. 

13 Coils wire. 

******* 1 case el in in pressor dryer. 
20 pos Bath Tubs. 

2 C/s tii / disc. 

1 ease m/diso. 

4 Ctns m/dise. 

1 ease m/dise. 


Bharat-Kliond 
Fizaku-Maru 
Lclccrk . . 

U yvva Maru 
Ditto 
Ditto 
Kankhola 
Ind Exporter 
Kebeverett, 
Knlnda . . 

Jnd Commerce 
Ph lament t a 
Siba*Ratna 
Exchange 

Nankai-Maru 

C/O Luekiinw 

M agdapur 
C/o Coventry 
Do. 

Stool Chemist 
Bewan 
Frauen ft Js 

Hngly 


1 2th January 
26tli January 
26th March 
24th April 
Ditto 
Ditto 
29th April 
7th May 
9th May 
26th May 
14th thine 
26th June 

10th July 
1 9th July 

23rd July 

29th July 

6th August 
17th October 
Do. 

18th Oc toiler 
21st October 
22nd Oct-ober 
24 th October 


Nil 

S A BBC 474, Cal or Nil 
Nil 

Mr. Dharma MX XX Cal 

Nil •• , 

YttOOG in a diamond Cal or defaced 
Tuta-Mareodes-Beir/. Jamshedpur Cal 
Nil 

A AC KKI1 74 Cal 
Nil 

Dittn 

SALEH IN BROS, Cal 
Nil 

Govt nf India Ministry of Health DADO 
etc. 

SOI IT 902 in a diamond ASAW around 
Ludhiana. 

Dept of Chemical Eng Ind Institute of 
Kharugpar S E Rly 
RSN * Co 

Jacks UDSTD O 710 Cnl 
Nil 

TIL Cal 1184 
Nil 

Philips Cal •• 

JPA Ship Stores Cal of defacod 


1 hag blnek peeper spg. 

1 (J/s m/dise. 

1 Ctn m/diso. 

1 C/s m/dise. 

1 C/s m /d iso. 

1 Pkg m/dise. 

1 ease m/dise. 

1 Iron package. 

1 C/s m/dise 
1 cose m/dise. 

1 bale m/diso. 

1 coro Boot Polish. 

******* | bag Iron pkh. 

**3 Drums Chlro organic Cmupd. etc. 

********] (blander pencil 

♦***1 Ctn Sulphonate product. 

1 C/h u/I parts. 

1 Ctn m/dmo. 

1 Pkg m/dise. 

1 C/s m/dise. 

** 3 bags Cliomical 
**** ic/t* Khe Appliances. 

++** 1 C/h cat guts. 


UllT II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


211 


Stow** 01 *'® 


; 0 roverett 

; t isiorn-Saga 

rtlaUHha 

'liin-ciunpboll 

ngCl'Hkoiia 

0 f Andhara 
liiuiili 
'hrtVHiuig 
|nl>csman 
'laiuiimmiug 
^tcrn-Muso 
[„.nu Vcrot t 

'anminoro 

MluMtu -'J roller 

Tribesman 

Maipurn 

Malancha 

Dlimla 

i'O Lucknow 
l’\ iduwayo 

Loksaug 
kxplorm 
Mohunada 
(\<vt Way 

Human 

Martand 

.Ittlabihur 

(’() Bedford 

Taksang 

C/O Yokohama 

K\mmislor 

liumo 

speaker 

Mannoi . . 

l-nkwing 

I'luiiidpaia 

Bahadur 

riioywing 

Hi.da 

LJrna 

Mica^a-M nru 
Elugly . . 
spuinu . . 

Hast <*rn Muse 
ihihitor 
Hal Morehat 
'*( ('ape Town 
I'lldenfcds 

‘■"Agl-H 

S.iiutvi n«i 
lad Splendor 
M.iInuH . . 

" \|/ia 
Hnliu . . 

H S Spiny 

[ " (’ape Town 

pkilisud . , 

M splendor 

i) a, 

JWuputijf 

['"i Rww’.lv.- 
Jf'^iaimda 

' ai fit 

^fatiftnfi Is 
I'Ajilorcr 
K,lsl ^n» Muse 
f»ad T3,.|f tj 
r,, ‘WoU 


Date of landing 

Marks and Numhors 

1056 

28th November 1955 

MP Cal 

29th November I960 

1/88G4/SGC/88/14885 Calcutta in a diamond 
Calcutta. 

30tli November I960 

Nil 

22nd December 1950 

I)o. 

24th December 1950 

O.l. 

145/50 

Nil 

719/50 

Do. 

819/50 

GMcK Co 15/5 in a diamond Cal 

893/50 

Nil 

950/50 

Nil 2908/1 

1098/50 

Nil 

1190/50 

1333/50 

TXC Cal 

CANDIB MARZAKl Cal in a block 

1308/50 

Nil 

18th January 1957 

Burma 3755B in a triangle VBL around 

Gal. 

23rd January 1957 

Roneo in a diamond Cal 

28th •January 1957 

Nil 

31 »t January 1957 

Gut 151 Cal or dofacod mark 4023 

2nd Kobruary 1957 

Nil 

4th February 1957 

APP Ltd 

Do. 

PIJC around a diamond 

9tli February 1957 

Nil 

10th February 1957 

Hindustan National GlasR Mfg Co Ltd etc. 

12th Fobruary 1957 

Civil Military stores Kanpur via Cal 

27th February 1957 

Mr. A Sa\ad 

1 1th March 1957 

Nil 

17 th March 1957 

Do. 

19tli March 1957 . . 

(JT in a tnngle 

22nd March 1957 . . 

Nil 

30th March 1957 . . 

Dickinson 10220 Cal 8885 

31st March 1957 . . 

Nil 

13th April 1957 

412 in a block Jmsson top Gal 

17th April 1957 . . 

Mr Gate] E Rostio etc 

12th May 1957 

F Toleoo Tatunagar O/N potil F 1480 etc or 
Nil. 

23rd April 1957 .. 

Tist ‘o Tata 

2 1st May 1957 

Crea or Nil 

22nd May 1957 

Sree Durga Glass Works 

24tli May 1957 

1 Rod, 1 Yollow' or defaced 

3rd June 1957 

Nil 

13tli June 1957 

'fho Ministry of Food Agriculture New' 
Delhi. 

18th June 1957 . . 

Nil 

Do. 

Do. 

30th June 1957 . . 

GM Calcutta 

7th July 1957 

SVOCA 9104/Color. 

17th .July 

Nd 

5th August 

AR Burma or Nil . . 

0th August 

FK or Nd 

8th August- 

F in a diamond 


Kith August .. Tula Telco (kil. O/NM 111 

4 Hi September Cal 

4th September .. KESTBP/73 

10th September . . HASP / W /< • I* & Co. 400- 4 01 

J 2th September .. 50 NM. Cal. or Nil 

1 5tli September .. Nil 

12th September .. GUM K./99K/IO0 35004 
12th September . . Sen Rnhegh India 
15tli September Nil 

15th September . . 7 , in a diamond L c Ton top Cal 

Kith September . . Mr. A. (J. Hussain Obald American Baptist 

Mission. 

I 7th September . . W 3*/00 /r*t* Go B L around 

22nd September .. C/5102 ANCO H tV. G <V. (‘o. m a diamond. 

2(i( li September .. ( J £IM K /00/K/1 00 55004/5 .. . , 

IstOelober .. CCP ♦♦♦Cal or Njl 

1st October . . K T Co around a t riangle Cal. 

7th October .. Pin lips Cal. 1 *104 7 

12th October . . D IuP. WS/100 Cal 

2 1st October .. SDO Telegraphy Knhcut 
22nd October .. A /h 102 Burn pur Cal. 

20th October .. Voids HKOO/3 Cal . . 

2nd November Cunorm Cal 

2nd November . . Nil 

4tli November . . SSS in a diamond Mr. Hanah Cli. Vurrnah 
Jyot-i weaving Factory. 

14th November . . S Ar, T . . 

22nd November .. Mr. Mousaid Ali, Khurikhela etc. 


Quantity and doseript-ion 


***** 3 C/h Sowing niocluno parts. 

1 C/s zn /ditto. 

(13 bags Soda- sulphate Sweeping. 

**** 1 Bdlo coir yarn. 

2 C/k m/dise. 

1 (Vs Essential oil. 

♦** 4 Drum m/disn. 

I C/h m/dise. 

♦***2 Bags Chalk Powder. 

I case plastic valve. 

3 Bags hotolnuts. 

1 Case m/diso. 

1 C/tn. m/dise. 

**** 1 bag Gum areas iu. 

2 Bdles cassia. 

1 Case stool hook with nuts. 

***** 20 Bags Chloride swooping. 

1 Case food chop|>or and corn moal. 

3 Bags Iron pins. 

** 1 Paper bag poly stone moulding 
powder. 

**** 5 Orates agricultural machinery parts. 

2 Cables copper wire. 

1 Case machinery parts. 

31 C/h Leather shoe laces. 

1 Case Elec App (surgical). 

J Drum m/diHo. 

1 Pee pipe. 

****** 2 C/h Chemical of which one 
empty. 

**** 1 Otn glass bowlH. 

*** 1 Bale paper. 

1 Cose saw -blade. 

****** 1 Cast) AcJv niatei ul. 

I Pkg plast ic bags. 

1 C/h OlasH till mis. 

♦***1 rkg motor atartnr. 

******* 3 hags urea. 

** * 1 Coho u/I in/partw. 

1 Pro pipe 

****** 3 Drums palm oil. 

1 0/h M^gazin. 

1 Pkg maohy. parts. 

1 Hag Chemicals. 

1 Case chain. 

1 case valve. 

1 bag Sodium Sulph (Sweeping). 

I Case Porcelain lnsu In for. 

5 pieces poles. 

3 C/s Chemicals. 

**l Case M/dise. 

3 Pcs Poles. 

I I pcs pules. 

*♦**3 Drums Synthetic Ha? in. 

1 Drum Medal Scrap. 

3 pcs tools. 

**♦♦*2 C/h Jih Cham. 

***! C/h Cycle Paddle rods. 

I ( ’ t ri Tools. 

**** I Case medical literniuic. 

♦***J Cast' Bandaging ctpi'i rm nl . 

♦***2 pkgK Fire bricks. 

1 ( V« ( Wieirncid. 

+ *4 C/ H Aib Clin n bearing, A L Spi aKor 
***l (’use Haw blmles. 

**J Roll wrapping pupn. 

I Case m/rlise. 

5S )>cs. pipes with sockets. 

***1 Case Roter Starter. 

I CaseRolIei. 

**9 ]>kgs Jnsulnt.on Board. 

♦***J Case Klee. E(|Uipfnenl . 

2 prs Boiler parts. 

♦***2 C/h Chinese Literature. 

***** 24 C/s Liu* refuse. 

1 (‘rale J*. Effect. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


OIO 

Ami 1/W 


Steamer's name. Data of landing. 


Tabour . . 

25t.h November 

Astra 

29th November 

Wonoroto 

13 th December 

Chakdina 

15t.h December 

Do. . . 

Do. 

Tnd. r r racier 

23rd December 

Prominent. 

30th November 

Exchequer 

74/57 .. 

Mogilalia . . 

88/57 .. 

Wollesly Victory 

109/57 

Explorer 

1 9 1 /57 

C/o Bath - • 

266/57 

C/o Bodies 1 11 1* 

279/57 

.lulaiimyur 

294 /5 7 

Mahsad 

307/57 

C/o Chicago 

5 1 1 /57 

InChestulfa 

563 /57 

Kyoto 

664 /5 7 

Continent 

699/57 

Richentils 

755-57 

Land aura 

992-57 

Panama 

1041-57 

C/O Colchester 

109-57 

C.B. Victory 

1051-57 

C/O Now Castle 

1 104-57 

Masirah 

1152-57 

Ditto 

Ditto 

C/O Bedford 

1164-57 

Jaladhrub 

1198-57 

Ditto 

1198-57 

Ditto 

1198-57 

Ditto 

1198-57 

1968 

Dorington -Court 

13t.h January 

San tli ia . . 

20th February 

Aagledyk 

21st February 

Philosopher 

Ditto 

J alamohan 

3rd March 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Trevelyan 

4th March 

Carpentaria 

Ditto 

Taipingyang 

9th March 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Tamara 

10th March 

Cat.harin -olden Drof 

11th March 

Pritoria 

17th March 

Megna 

23rd March 

Ditto 

25th March 

Steel- Ad voeiito 

26th March 

Brnwenfils 

3rd April 

Brien . • * ■ • 

15fh April 

Plymouth victory . . 

29t.h April 

Ditto 

30th April 

Bond a 

3rd May 

Wairimue 

22nd May 

Ind Resource 

9th Juno 

Bradevoretl. 

9t,h June 

Jlarperdes 

20th Juno 

Blue Muster • • 

21st. June 

Curlomnrt inolich 

12th July 

C-O Birmingham 

15th July 

Masheor 

19th July 

Hansmooie 

27th July 

C/O Shrewsberry 

3 1st. July 

C/O Shrews Berry . . 

31st. July 

C/O Capetown 

13tli And ust. 

Juhulhun 

13th Autiist. 

C/O Tweeds 

14th August. 

Clan -Mac intyre 

20th August 

Joladhruba 

24th August. 

Maehardu 

29th August 

Mftidan 

Ditto 

Ordift 

8th September 

Ind Resol v..' 

9th September 


Marks and Numbers. 

A KG Cal. 47774/2 
Nil 

Nepal Couneil of International Library 
6782 /C in a diamond IOAL around. 

J W Ltd Cal 
PA6-GG 9918 G2r etc. 

PMPL Cal /P/1 357 19852 
Dr. George Patna ote. 

Nil 

Govt, of India Mnislry of Health 
Nil .. 

Mac furl on »V. Co Cal, India 

A S Calcutta 

Nil 

**** G K C Cal. 8415 

Damodar Valley D. V.C in a triangle. 

Nil .. 

Do. 

Do. 

Nil 

Dr W M Haynuddin 
SB KC A Co 1349 Cal 
T IS Co Tota 1757-1 70S CD 
Nil 
Nil 

II S r E4-1075-3 Westofin ink block etc 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 


B X P in a diamond P P W P around Cal 
or Nil. 

Y M C A Cal 

H W 328, 518 W-R-55 
B P (I) Ltd or Nil 
Nil or Russian Mark 
Ditto 

,1 & Co Calcutta 
Nil .. 

0015-57 in a triangle MAC around 
Ditto 
Nil 

B C P W in a diamond Calcutta 

B C P W L or Nil 

Nil 

Ditto 

Director- C S or Nopal C/o American 
Consulate General etc. 

R T M Calcut ta 

P A 90 000-99 A 8-0201 etc. . . 

S K D Calcutta 

Govt of India Ministry of Health etc. 

Ajit Singh Bons vill Hnrduarpur, etc. 

Y M C A 

R N Kapoor A Co etc 
H M V Calcutta . . 

New Knvan ( Calcutta 
T T M CD 542 or Nil 

National Christian Relief Committee eto 
IT I C 16 Chil or Nil 

YG-3 (B8) Teleo Tata B N Rly O-N RS- 
T2-Y etc. 

BCPL Cal 

Nil 

Nil 

Siiidhi Bihar P-201-15997 Cal 
Parry it Co 

Mr. K Bakasu Gandhi Gandhi Building etc 

99999 Tnd Tube Co 1953Ltd .Taiioshdpjr etc. 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

M P in a Circle 

Rigional Dumber Cal . • • • 


[Part j 


Quantity and Desoription. 

****♦1 Case metal Cutting saw bl a <K 
5 pcs poles. 

*** 1C /b books. 

1 Case m/dise. 

1 Ctn H or licks 
15 pcs polos. 

1 Case Nylon Bristless. 

1 Case Spectacles & glass. 

***♦1 bag Barium Carb. 

4 Drum Choloro organic Compound. 
******89 bags fire clay. 

1 Case Maet-y. parts. 

**1 (Jane m/dise. 

****2 hags Tin scrap rusty. 

1 ('use Elec parts. 

1 C/s M. V. ports. 

*** 1 Case m/dise. 

**•*2 bags Fire Clay. 

30 bags Conmnt. Swooping. 

***♦*1 Drum empty. 

*♦1 Pkg personal Effect. 

***1 Drum Antimony Oxide. 

***1 C/S Boards. 

♦•♦♦•♦A qty Dumage wood. 

1 papor bag synthetio liasin 
♦♦♦I crate tiro bricks. 

***2crate fire bricks. 

***1 bale Printed forms. 

**7 Ctna glass tubes. 

*♦4 bags. 

**1 crate. 

♦♦A qty broken glass tubes. 


**♦*18 bags whiting. 

**15 bags old wearing appul. 

1 case machy. 

****1 Drum m/dise. 

1 case Induction Motor. 

I Pkg Russian Books. 

1 Ctn Calender for 1958. 

1 Ctn Horlicks. 

**4 C/s Poi*celain 
**1 C/s Poroolian. 

1 C/s vegetable Extract. 

14 C/s m/dise. 

**1 Drum Empty. 

*****13 bags whiting. 

1 bag Sodibi Carb. 

1 Case seed Grow. 

***] case surface plat oh. 

18 Pcs pipes. 

23 C/s Chutney. 

***7 paper Drums Clioloro-nrgiimc <>m* 
pound. 

***l case P Effects. 

*****0 C/h wearing apparel. 

*****3 Cartons Elec. opp. 

****2 C/s asbestos rope. 

**l Cose Silicagel. 

*****1 Case Iron pins a ball hearing 
26 reels Art. silk yarn. 

****1 Pkg rnettor fitter with rules 
****1 Case Ffiro proof Cable 

**3 Drums Organic Chemical . 

*****2 Draums Synthetic Bfvmi. 
******1 Drum Organic Chemical. 

1 Case m /dise. 

2 C/s m/dise. 

1 Suit, case P Efforts. 
lCaso Hydraulic areunulator. 

1 Codo M/diso 

*****2 C/s F wheel one empty. 

5 bags m/dise. 

*****2 C/s Essential oil sample. 

***•4 Bag Sweep Amon sulph. 


iR t II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


213 


Steamer’s name. 


apalake 

urimu 

v Andaman 

iidhanya 

L»na • • 

( hisam Mam 

i-Mani 

st Man 
liidlnr 

o Chicago 

iWflTia 

lazatl 

.pluxmi 

Itulliarma 

in Southern-Land 

h»in-Maru 

lazad 

ronia 

lujuinkhi 

ls u>m-Muse 

.niralm 

■irhctfl • • 

k)da • • 

jyehnsHii 

linhiliar 
OtflK'hff 
•rturia 
aliikand 
ul. Pioneer 
,.;iinic-Ll»'ro 
Do. 

iliiputlma 
unda ■ • 

\fs Santi 

iiiidclfclH 

ml inn 
ukrunft 
1 1 o\ hang 
angola 
.» i hicago 
ulahar 
oru irk 
n-iti'm-Muso 
orovoritt 
(.ngolu 
o Colombo 


'S Ahvaki 

8 Indian Trader . . 
S T.meverett 
N Mushud 
iS MVrekork 

■ S TixHolHor 
^Mniliar 

■ S Eastern Maid 
•SJunitn 

S Indian Renown 

' S Indian Splendor 

' 8 Kdlenie Hero . . 
Do. 

‘ s Indian Socurity 
J ^ Suiigolla 
' s Miuharda 

^ Ucc.a 

s 'S Juln Nathani 
Mtv r Kerk 
f’yidonHrtt.yant 
Iain druba 
^minster 
Ikuoklyn Height 

^wotra . . 
ik’niial 

hlamoti 
,s >- Ntroam 


Date of landing. Marks and numbers. 

1958 


Quantity and description. 


13th September 
5tli October 
1 5th October 
15th October 
17th October 
25th October 
5tli November 

20th Novomber 
21st November 

25th November 
26th November 
10th December 
1 1 th December 
1 1 th December 
13th December 
] 3th December 
] 6tli December 
19th December 
24th December 
291 h December 
3 1st December 
37/58 .. 

61/58 .. 

151/58 

189/58 

249/58 

265/58 

274/58 

362/58 

386/58 

386/58 

444/58 

524/58 

533/58 

794/58 

1160/58 

814/58 

1245/58 

1321/58 

1472/58 

J 481/58 

1637/58 

1635/58 

1658/58 

Voy March 1958 
Voy September 1958 


Tata Product in a diamond . . 

YMCA 

Nil 

Assam Sillmanibox 

PAP Rhotas Dalmittnagar 

KTOal. 

Dr. Asima Chatterjoo Reader Chemistry 
Dept. etc. Jadabpur. 

Nil . . . . 

Trade Representative Czechoslovakia 
Republic. 

Nil 

RL Royal Motel, Nepal 
Calcutta HELI 

Philips Elec. (P) Ltd. etc. 4172 
NRMPL Cal 
AFC 444 Cal 

Mr. T. Nackamira lndo Ashahi Glass Ltd . . 

HSPL ASrL/E4/ 10/5/5 

Nil 

TEC in a diamond or Nil . . / • • 

XX4 in a triangle or Nil 
Kisandeo Satan Ltd. etc. 

Nil 

Exhibit Sujnple MM & Co. 

SM 

J RAC Cal or Nil 

XXX Cal or Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

S.C. J ore hat 10418 via Cal 
SR Madras . . m 

.1 A N Cal or Nil . . * 

PG [JRW] 

Nil 

00021 SSL 

Ind. r rube Co. Jamshedpur (1953) 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

BKYV Ltd. Cal. 

Nil 

NLBP Rangoon 
Solan Cal. 

D.G. Rangoon Ex 1/389 
1IUEC IIE 392/149 


** l hag soda ash. 

** 2 Bdls. old wearing apparel. 

** 3 Drms empty. 

1 Case m/diso. 

1 (Vise m/disc. 

9 C/s M/dise. 

1 Drum m/diso. 

*** 63 bags Sweepings of Sulphate etc. 
*** 2 C/s. m/dise. 

3 bags m/dise. 

++** 8 Ctns. Heater. 

1 Cast' m/diso. 

1 Case Ele. parts. 

** 1 (Vise Mag. oxide powder. 

158 Coils wire. 

3 C/s m/diso. 

*+* 1 Case m/dise. 

4 bags m/d me. 

1 Bdl Coir yarn. 

1 bale paper. 

++*+ 1 Case Sulphur. 

** 1 Case pins. 

***** 1 (Vise household articles. 

** 4 Cases Shoes & M. V. parts. 

*** 1 Case Electrodes. 

1 Case m/dise. 

45 bagH cryolite powder. 

***** 1 poo angle. 

*** 1 Drum organic Cheuiienl. 

***** 2 Drums organic Sodoinent. 
***** 1 Driun Aqua Solution. 

***** 2 Drums C.N. oil. 

*+ 1 bag whiting. 

** 23 Bdls. coir yarn & rope. 

1 Case m/diso. 

** 1 bag Lactose Spg. 

** 1 (Vise Tools. 

5 Rdls. loose (’oils Wire. 

***** r t t m jr H sodium Snip} into etc. 

*** 1 Drum Synthetic r«Bin. 

2 C/s. m/dise. 

37 bags Sulphur. 

5 bales m /disc. 

2 pkgs. m /dise. 

** 2 bags Fire clay. 

1 Case M/dise. 


1959 

2nd January 
9th January 
]8th January 
29tli January 
30th January 
30th January 
2nd February 
1 2th February 
19th February 
19th February 

23rd February 

4th March 
Do. 

8th March 
12th March 
20th March 
3rd April 
7th April 
12 th April 
1 7th April 
1 7th May 
19th May 
4 th June 

21«t Juno 
28 th June 
3rd July 
15th July 


*** 1 Ctn condensed milk. 

1 C/s Fibre Board. # 

A quantity loose cassia. 

3 Pkgs. m/dise. 

*** j p f . H ( . 0 pj )or wire. 

1 Ctn. Harden Top oil. 

50 bags Muriate of Cotas sweeping, 
*** I C/h channel Bar Sr Tools etc. 

. . I Hag M/diH e. 
jeet ** 1 Pkg. Elect,. Parts. 


Belmrilul Katmondo Col. 

00. 39/58 in a Triangle ITKC around 
Nil 

Nil 

PH Cal 
MIC 728/59 
Nil 

OZC in a Block KB-31 Tumpat below 
Light in a Diamond SB Top . . 

Govt, of West Bengal Durgupiir Prc 
Power Station. 

DHL 2691 Cal. .. 

1. CO. Gal 

S. G. Jhorhat, etc. 

BASK Gal 

Indian Library G/o Indian Embassy, etc. 

HA BAB 0650 

Nil 

SSS in a Diamond HL on Top 

Sulphur Powder Gal 

Nil 

American Ambassador, Karachi 

AP 42 Gal, or defaced 

Govt, of India, Ministry of Health cte. 

R M Cal 
Nil 

Do. 

Nil of Bhari Cal 


**1 G/s Art Silk yarn of Cellouloso 
Aseeetate. 

**2 Dr. Chemical. 

****2 (^ ri Agricultural Fungicide. 

***l C/h Chemical. 

**8 Ctn. Books. 

4 C/h 1 muring. 

1 C/s Blocks, Nut, Bolts, washers. 

***** ^ (j/ M wmc. 

100 Bags Sulphur. 

*1 bale weaving apparel. 

1 Ctn. Paper 1 Mates. 

***1 Case exposed film. 

**1 1 paper drums white powder of inseoti- 
oido. 

5 drums m/dise. 

1 Coil wire. 

A qty of Iron pkgs. 

1 pkg Tractor ourta. 



214 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


[Part u 


Steamer’s namo 


Jala raj an 
H. Beacon 
Helleaio Hero 
Noroverott 
Sistiana . . 
Tasmania 
C/o Attowa 
Oarbota . . 
Chandjiara 
Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Ind. Spletuler 
Steel Director 
Mollary Beacon 
Sacramento 
Jaladlianya 
Jo turns barg 

Bharat - B bus an 
Sangola . . 

Indus 

Exministor 

Mongolia 

Malika 

Madulsima 

Do. 

Do. 

Jaladharati 
Si tan j a 
Minderkork 
Finder 
Troja 

Hellenic splendor 
Eastern Trader 

Kybfels . . 

Miharu Maru 
Kildroehl 
Norevorett 
Loksang 
Brianoon 
Jalarnohan 
Ind. Merchant 
Do. 

Purnoa 
Jaladhan 
Oannanoro 
O/o Chicago 
Bnsano . . 
Loksang 
Martand 
Jalsdhara ti 
Ditto 
Dit to 

Ind Exporter 

Jaladhruba 
Mad ultima 
Makrana 
Parla . . 

St. Merry English 
Saigon-Maru 
Jalakajan 
J avamail 
Jaladlianya 
Ind Shipper 
Melary Beacon 
Morelia . . 
Skambo . . 

Ind Exporter 

Jfoegh Drake 
Nordaua 
C/o Wi m pig 

jaladhanna 
Stool Director 


Date of landing. 
1959 

16th July 
18th July 
. . 26th July 
. . 26th July 
1st August 
3rd August 
. . 4th August 
. . 7th August 
. . 8th August 
Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

1 2 th August 
1 8th August 
. . 18th August 
22nd August 
25th August 
. . 1st September 

2nd September 
15th September 
16th September 
21st Septeml>er 
22nd September 
23rd September 
. . 30th September 
Do. 

. . l>o. 

30tli September 
6th October 
17th October 
1 8tli October 
21st October 
. . 24th October 
Do. 

. . 26th October 
2nd November 
5th November 
10th November 
16th November 
26th October 
28th Novemlier 
4tli December 
Do. 

8th December 
9th December 
18th December 
22nd Decemlier 
.. 8/7/59.. 

.. 11/3/59 

. . 29/9/59 

. . 382 /59 

.. 382/59 

. . 382 59 

.. 605/59 


. . 644/59 

.. 649/59 

. . 748 59 

. . 783/59 

. . 848 /59 

.. 871/59 

. . 875/59 

. . 902 /5ft 

.. 961/59 

.. 1052/59 

.. 1079/59 

.. 1094/59 

.. 1163/59 

. . 1265/59 

.. 1282/59 

.. 1286/59 

.. 1357/59 

.. 1376/59 

.. 1740/59 


Marks and Numbers. 


Quantity and Description. 


Nil 

Nil 

RRC Kawnpore 
Nil . . 

1 pkg. 

Kusurn Cal 

Nil 

NU 

S N P around a triangle Cal 
Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

O G I Cal. 

Nil 

Hindustan Electrical Circuit etc. 

SB/B/59R in a diamond BP L on top. 

Nil 

BSC M F O Cal M/810 

C A Calcutta 
Nil 

Mr. Wiliam O, Dongwall etc. 

Asoke Kumar 8 Alipore Avenue. 

Nil 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

SBL Cal or Nil 
Nil 

P T A G M Cal or Nil 

S. V. Cal 

DH 7085 in a triangle W.K. on top Hong 
Kong. 

MG Agarwula 
J B P L Arun, Cal 
Nil 

T. S. in a diamond or Nil 
Nil 

Ciisonior Phipson, Cal 
Nil 

29972 in a triangle ANJS on top 
25KB Rly. Elec. 

Mr. AAProsad Sheep & Wool Officer, Cal. 
MSMS/Ind./2828-AFSD 90059 
SME OR1498/5710/4479/B 
The Sec. Benars Club, etc. 

Nil 

Do. 

Kilburn Sample 

SR PL 8095 /GN Bombay etc 

Nil 

American Consulate General etc 
2601 IND 12656 m a diamond PECL 
around 

59 in a trungle ACW around . . 

Nil 

Mr M M Sikdor C/o Tisoo Ltd 
Nil 

0004/59 HCKC around 1/2 
Nil 

W in a diamond 

Govt of India, Ministry of Health 

Nd 

Nil 

Nil 

Nd 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil Cal 
Nil 

Mr Stuart Mi rock Cal 


3 drums empty. 

**** 1 Case Capacitor. 

***1 Crate Fungicide. 

4 pcs. Zinc slabs. 

Lungi. 

***♦1 C/s Refractory bricks. 

1 bag m/dise. 

***1 Crate Japanese wine. 

5 C/s ra/disc. 

1 broken suit case. 

4 Trunks. 

3 bales. 

* 1 Case Gun metal Bush. 

2 pkgs. m/uifle. 

***2 C/s m/dise. 

♦♦1 paper bag m/dise. 

1 Case m/dise. 

1 Case m/dise. 

1 Bdle Coir yarn loose. 

*1 bag rico. 

2 etna m/dise. 

***3 pkgs P. Effects. 

1 bag m/dise. 

*♦* A qty loose sulphur. 

12 bags m/dise. 

1 Ctn. in /disc. 

1 hag m/dise. 

1 Coil rusty. 

2 Bales wood pulp. 

1 Drum Organic Chemical. 

4 Bags m/dise. 

**♦5 bags Tanning Material. 

*3 bags m/diwe. 

1 Case in/dise. 

****2 Otns Conv ertor & rocording Tape* 

2 /Cs m/dise. 

***1 Case Elec, goods. 

5 Ctns m/dise. 

2 bags m /disc. 

1 Case Brandy. 

1 bag m/dise. 

*** 5 C/s Krasor. 

**2 C/s Nuts, Bolts and Washers. 

1 Case m/dise. 

***3 C/s Carphone Cussion. 

*+* 1 Case Chemical. 

* 1 pkg m/dise. 

*1 case Iron pkgs. 

4 hags m/dise. 

♦*♦1 Case Sodium Sulphate spg. 

**2 Drums synthetic Rosin 
1 Bdle Sk'd. " 

1 Case wine. 

J Case Brackets. 

*3 hags m/dise. 

1 ease m /disc. 

♦1 Ctn in Id iso 

♦**1 bag sodium Borate in form of luiu] 
***♦2 C/s Bushing Porcelain. 

5 Bags sweepings 
*1 Drum C/M o 1 
*3 Drums Organic Chemical. 

4 Bags whiting. 

11 Drums Caustic Soda. 

***3 C/s Packing Tape 
***• JCtn glass tubes 
182 Bags sulphur. 

***♦1 Bag Titanium oxide w.th 
pigment. 

8 Bags sulphur 

*1 P/c Maohy. parts 
**1 Pkg Iron rim. 

2 Bdls rusty wire 

2 Suit Cases P. Efforts. 


Part II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MA^ 10, 1962 


215 


Steamer 8 name 


Hellenic Spirit 
Kuth Everett 

Jalaviawajyoti 

Ditto 
javainail 
Eastern Muse 
Ditto 

Ind Splendor 
Mikmna Maru 

Ditto 

Jlangkok Maru 
Jala Kanaya 
Kolnah ■ • 
koksang 
'1'ttnang . • 
Jamtu . . 

Jniiita 
Maru'kofk 
Eastern Saga 
Indian Reno wo 
Ditto 


I). ‘\nria .. 

. . 0th March 

LM ana 

. . 0th March 

SpiizMs 

. . 7th March 

.lavnlaxmj 

. . 8th March 

jMrftiiank 

17th March 

Jiuriranga 

. . 27th March 

Clanchuttam 

28th March 

Fraw nfe Is 

. . 2nd April 

Exhibitor 

8th Apr 1 

Wonorato 

9th A pr. 1 

Ciu Agra 

21st April 

Dil to 

Ditto 

Hall.lor . . 

27th Apr 1 

Stool Director 

1st May 

MllvJInyd 

2nd May 

•lnlajAgwan 

2nd May 

-lav ala vmi 

. . 3rd May 

•hi la vi joy 

0th May 

(Jut tcnfcls 

9th May 

Mftlakand 

. . 9th May 


Indian Resolve 
Mart and 
Jala Vishnusha 
Jala Pan khi 
Rolmih . . 
buino 
Jaladuta 
Jala-KeinJra 
Ruth-Kverett 
Ditto 
Piiakduia 

BeiiMras . . 
Templar 
Vnita .. 

Jaladharati 

J&fi-Laxrni 

Ditto 

Mawana 

Tafimaniah 

laxniama 

Tero 

Pam^kota 
Eastorn Muse 
Jala-Prakash 

^arwari 

Ditto 

^ '0 Hartford 
^ Splendor 
Subwlar 

adl au Strength 
Word Bacon 
Ditto 
Jala V«e ra 
Ditto 

Ditto 


Date of landing 

I960 

1st January 
2nd January 
12th January 
Ditto 

18th January 
25th January 
Ditto 

3rd February 
5th February 


Marks and numbers 


6 th February 
0th February 
8th February 
1 8th February 
19th February 
20th February 
20th February 
2nd March 
2nd March 
4 th Maren 


10th May 
16th May 
17th May 
24th May 
28th May 
28 th May 
1st Juno 
2nd Juno 
2nd Juno 
Ditto 
3rd Juno 
12th Juno 
13th Juno 
23rd Juno 
16th Juno 
24th Juno 
Ditto 
25th Juno 
26th Juno 

26th Juno 
26th Juno 
2nd July 
6th July 
17th July 
23rd July 
Ditto 
20th July 
27th July 
31st July 
2nd August 
4th August 
Ditto 

5th August 
Ditto 
Ditto 


Tata TTS(M) Cal . . 

APEEJAYCal .. 

JS Co m a diamond Cal 
B Bayer in a circle 
Nd 

’•‘♦Universal in a block H T on top 
Nil .. 1 

Nil 

Mr C Lakshaman Makali Pustak Silver 
Jubilee etc. 

Ditto 

. ATC/TO330 Cal .. 

Nil .. 

Nil 

ram . . . . * ; 

Royal Norwigian Consulate-general 

»S I R in a Diamond 

AH in a Diamond 

I A C 438 Cal 

Nil 

Ni! 

218/677 in a Traingle S I on Top S.imon 
below. 

Gulf Cal or defaced 

R^v C Annand SDB Church Catholic etc 
M R S Gardkhnnc Rourkella . . 

Nil 
N 1 

NiTCalorN.I 
Mr B L Shoryin VI o T foot 
N.l 

JOY Cal 

Nd .. .. ;; 

264 8 m a Tra.ngle SB I around Cal 
BSC MFO M/919 .. 

Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
N.l 
Nil 
Nil 

L B 1 179 Cal 
HGECLTD H/E 180 etc 
Machino Tubo Co ST( V80/MTC/6/958 
W in a Diamond or defacod 
Nil or Two Rod Paint 
Nil 
Nil 

SGEO, Cal 
CHBSA09O18 
Nil 

BCJ Around a Triangle or Nil 
Nil 

MC. Cal 

J V Pafta S E Dlig Co, Cal 
Pwd 02125 

SCA 11000 E2395H, Cal 
Holv cross convent, etc 
MBS, Cal 
Nil 

HGEC LTD HE469, Cal 
Nil 

Nil 


RB I tom No 820987/988 820988 
888 in a Triangle J J on top . . 

H C Mehara or Nil 
Nil 

Greves Cotton Co Ltd, etc 
VvSI 2952/59-60 
HGEC Ltd 469, Cal 
Nil 
Nil 

FWC 10146, Cal or Nil 
Nil 
Ditto 

76 in a Triangle SKW around, Cal 

Nil 

Nil 


Quant it y and description 


1 Case Fibre bushing. 

1 (‘oil wire. 

* 1 Case ( ‘opper rods. 

♦4 Bags ni /disc. 

*1 Hag . polvtholin mouldmg powder. 

1 Case Roofing Screw, 

15 Coils wire. 

*2 Bags Chemical Compound. 

3 C/s 'Pea A’ Dinner set 

1 Ctn Japam clock. 

2 C/s m/dise. 

**♦♦1 Pa Antimoney. 

3 Rag m /disc 
1 Bag ni /disc. 

1 Pkg P /Effect. 

*♦*10 BdlB Rubber. 

♦♦*1 “Bdle Rubber 

I Ctn m/dise 

8 Bags and a quantity m/dise. 

1 C/s rn/di j e 

1 C/s Indicating Flot Manometer. 


. 2 Dr. m /disc. 

1 C/sm/dise. 

1 0/n m/dise. 

1 8 Bags m /disc. 

5 Bags m /disc, 

1 Pkg m/dise. 

1 C/s m /due. 

♦A quantity loose bags urea. 

2 Bugs m/dise 

2 Bags m/dise 

85 Coils wire loose and rostv- 
1 P/s conveyer chain. 

1 Coil wire Rusty 

1 B/s and h quantity loose old clothing 
1 Ps Zinc slab 
05 Bags m /disc. 

3 Dr. Empty. 

5 C/s 17/1 M /Parts and cover cast iron. 
9 C/s JVTedu ine 
2 C/S Electrical Parts 
*1 C/S Tools 
1 Dr M/Dise 
1 Ps Zinc Slab 

9 Bags M/Dise 
55 Pkgs M/Diso 

1 C/S Riv Ball boaring 
1 Fibre Dr Organic Chemical 

4 Paper bags Sweeping M/Diso 
14 Coils Wiro Loose 

1 Bag M/Diso 

2 C/8 Loctozon 

*1 C/8 Used wiring apparel 
1 Ctn M/Diso 
1 C/8 air motor Hoist 
1 Box P/F 

10 Pkgs M/Diso 

1 C/8 corn flour 

5 C/8 Electrical Parts 
22 Bags M/Diso 

2 CoiIh Strips 

2 C/S woolen fabrics 
2 C/8 Umbrella Cloth 

1 C/8 Brass <fc Copper wiro 

2 Bdls Coir Yam 

2 C/8 Spare Filter Packs 
1 Case Copper Tubing 
1 C/S Electrical Parts 
* 1 Bag Chemical 
76 Bags Phosphate 
1 Chest P/E 

1 C/S Hooks Fitted with Nuts 
1 Bag Nails 
1 Bag M/Diso 

1 Paper Bag AI/Dise 

2 Dr Empty 


21G 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


11 


Steamer’s name. 

Date of landing. 

I960 

Marks and Numbers. 


Quantity and Description. 

Wihinapa 

6th August 


Son Raleigh W/RM/A/573 in a triangle 

, , 

103 Coils wire 

Valcy-En-Coux 

16th August 


Nil 


10 Coils wire 

Narasaw-Maru 

16th August 


Nil 


30 Bags m/dise 

Ditto 

Ditto 


Nil 


20 Coils wire 

Chilka . . 

19th August 


Philips 1086/6776, Cal. 


1 Caso m/dise 

Jaladhan 

19th August 


Nil 


7 Bags m /dise 

Eastern Saga 

4th September 

. . 

Nil 


12 Pkgs 6 a quantity m/dise 

Steel Chemist 

4th September 


The Himalayan Scientific Mountainoering 
Expedition, etc. 

1 C/S Boots 

Schelde . . 

10th September 

. . 

Son Raleigh W/RM /A/293 in a triangle 


265 Coils wire 

Jaladhanya 

16th September 


Nil 


1 Trunk P /Effect 

Juyluxini 

18th September 


Nil 


1 Reel paper 

Ditto 

Ditto 


Nil 


A qty firo bricks 

Jagluxmi 

18th September 


CC 36251 Karachi 


9 Coils wire 

Ditto 

Ditto 


Nil 


2 Otns m / diso 

Ditto 

Ditto 


Muk Karachi or Nil 


1 Coil wire 

Ditto 

Ditto 


Nil 


1 Coil wire 

Jagluxmi 

18th September 
26th Koptembor 


BASF EP & PI PL, Cal 


2 Bags Sodium Bisulphate 

New- West Minister 

City 

Exministor 


HO EC HE498 1MP260 


4 C/S Elect parts 

28th September 


Hindusthan PCHBLS ENG, Cal 


3 Case lining sections 

Jaginitra 

4th October 


Nil 


1 Bdle wire rope 

Jalahihar 

8th October 


B1(I) Ltd, 77012. Cal 


1 Coho Ball Bearing 

Want-ex sols 

9th October 


DBW 225407 French Motor . . 


1 Caso Adv Litarature 

Ditto 

Ditto 


PL-27 64/664263 U27 


1 C/S Ball Bearing 

Duino 

llt-h October 


Nil 


17 Pcs Old Iron Bars 

Chinkoa 

Kith October 


Colonel GB D/E Fishor, etc or Nil 


1 Ctn skimmed milk 

Langlyelyde 

22nd October 


Nil 


1 Paper bag ra/diso 

Hoegh -Cairo 

26th October 


Institute of Child Health etc . . 


3 Ctns Hospital Equipment & Medicine 

St of Kutch 

29t-h October 


Nil 


1 Case m/dise 

Baiton . . 

30th October 


457/292 or Nil 


1 Case m/dise 

Eastern -Maid 

1st Non ember 


Nil 


1 Caso writing pad 

Maturat-a 

2nd November 

. . 

S N Ltd 


1 Case wine 

Mississppilloyd 

4th November 


Nil 


8 Bags Carbon black 

Molohskerk 

16tli November 


DFC1 Dacoarin Chittagong 


1 Bag m/dise 

Express . . 

17t-h November 

. . 

Hindustan Motor, Cal 


1 Case Bru,HS Rods 

Jayshoor 

2nd December 


DLM Ltd, Cal 


1 Caso m/dise 

Ditto 

Ditto 


Nil 


12 Pkgsm/diso 

Ordia 

1 1th December 


Do. 


1 Pee Broken Zinc slab 

Januda 

12th December 

. . 

Do. 


5 Bdls rubber 

Ditto 

Ditto 


Do. 


2 B/S Printing papor 

Alhusani 

16th December 


AVJ KR nr Nil . . 


20 C/h spindles 

Ditto 

Ditto 


Do. 


14 C/s m/dise 

Jaluk end m 

16th Deeombor 


Nil 


15 lmgs m/diso. 

Ardellis . , 

22nd December 


IJSI B3727 Cal. . . 


2 c/s m/djse. 

Eastern -Muse 

20th December 


Y in a diamond KC on top Cab 


1 Case Cak aidar. 

t-lan-Mcleod 

13th December 


8580 in a block Burroughs on top 


4 (’Ins. Machy. parts. 

Do. 

Ditto 


U.P. cc in a diamond M4B 


1 Case m/diso. 

Juyulaxmi 

28tli Docomtier 


Nil 


10 Pkgs & A quantity m/dif-e. 

.la\alaxmi 

28t,h December 


Now India in a Diamond 


1 Bag Black Peeper. 

Do. 

liSt li December 


AKA in a Diamond 


1 Bdl. Coir Rope. 

Namangan 

70,60 . . 


Nil 


6 B/S woodpulp. 

Avordyk 

79/60 . . 


CP/C/175/162/09 .. 


2 Dr. Empty. 

Rajlaksharai 

165/60 


Ratan . . 


1 Bag m/dise. 

Mathura 

176 60 


\ iolot Paint at Both End 


1 Ps. Stool Bar. 

Eelu-oddejidorf 

ITS/ 60 


Regional Director of Food & Agriculture or 
Nil. 

2 Bags m.diso. 

S] utzfols 

196,60 


Nil 


* 1 C/s m/diso. 

Meric kerb 

630/60 


Nil 


1 Pkg. Loose Articales. 

Jalaprova 

687/60 


Nil 


3 Bdls. Coir yarn. 

C/O Guilford 

642/00 


.TIT Cal. 89109 


1 (•/,*> m/dise. 

Ravenfols 

7S1 / 60 


Nil 


* 2 C/s ik'or. 

J ny ulaxmi 

79 J <00 

, . 

Nil 


5 Bdls. Rubber. 

East orn -Muse 

868/60 


J.C. in a circle or Nil 


1 Bag Swooping. 

Do. 

SOS 60 

. . 

Nil 


G Bags m/dise. 

S d West Bengal 

9S5 60 

. . 

Nil 


22 I)r. Palm oil. 

Do. 

986/60 


Nil 


1 Dr. Synthetic Razin Moulding iV" ,l * 

Do. 

9S5 '60 


Nil 


5 Dr. Empty. 

Hogh Trade 

1178/60 


Aligarh Muslim University etc. 


f* Ctn. used Printed Books. 

Iran Parlour 

11 96 /GO 


Nil 


30 Ps. Broken zinc slab. 

Do. 

1196/00 


Nil 


3 Ps. Spare Parts. 

Mongla . . 

1336/60 

. . 

BS B0 2055 Cal or defaced 


7 C/h Brass Pipes. 

Duli an Commerce 

1383/60 


657/APC in a diamond Cal. or Nil 

. . 

1 Dr. m/dise. 

Nowshora 

499/60 

. . 

Philips Cal. 


1 C/s Indicator. 

Perla 

1514/60 

. . 

CPCC 82540 Cal. . . 


8 Rolls Paper. 

C/o Hareford 

1519/60 

. . 

AH (India) P. Ltd. etc. 


1 C/s Ener Greaso. 

Easter Moon 

1676/60 

. . 

Nil 


9 Pkgs m/diso. 

Hoogh drako 

1729/60 

. . 

Atlas Trading or Nil 


1 Dr. Empty. 

Do. 

1729/60 


Dr. Sribastaba Physician-in-oharge 
Poarylal Charitable Hospital. 

Dr. 

1 Box P/Effeot. 


I'akT 11] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10 , 1962 


217 


StoaHK > r * 8 name. 


r o Bormingha*” 

Fatah »kod 
Soben»ot 
]>e. 

]><». 

U». 

D<». 

M° on 

\l\inki 
I )n. 

Do. 

|)o. 

|)n. 

Do. 

Hi>|>«'riiUigo 

Inoluuiga 

Ftviw iii<>D • • 

Chiuulpartir 

Sangolla 

Puicl. r - • 

tlagm.it a 

lioiii »ul«l Tragutt. 
.lnlalom.wi 
Sur! Maker 


Date of lauding. 

Marks and numbers. 

Quantity and description. 

1961 

6th January 

N745 GK on Top. Cal. 

. . 1 C/s Stool Files. 

8th January 

Nil 

3 bag M / Diso. 

8th January 

ASCW Bombay or Nil 

1 Dr. Mineral .Jl. 

St H January 

Nil 

9 bags M/l >iso. 

8th January 

Swika Amin CVI. 

8 bags M/J)ise. 

lltli January 

A KG Bmrackpore (VI. 

1 Crate M / I )isc. 

1 ith January 

IIGKC Ltd If 10605 etc. 

13 C/s Elect rio 1’arts. 

14th January 

1FGKC Ltd H 10538 etc. 

1 C/8 Electric Parts. 

14th Jiuiuai'y 

IIG10C Ltd 11 10498 etc. 

. . K C/s Elect rio Part ... 

2 Dt. January 

GRB/9S2 in a Triangle JIG on Top 

. . 1 Pkt. M/Diso. 

27th .January 

Nil 

92 Hills Coils w ire. 

IkI February 

Philips (VI. 

1 C/h M/Diso. 

1st February 

(VI. 101 in a diamond KLT around 

3 bags M/1 )ise. 

1st February 

Nil 

1 Ctn M/Diso. 

1st February 

Nil 

. . 1 C/s M/I)iso. 

1st Fob r nary 

Now Calcutta Hardware & Glass Store, 1 C/s Nainplo Mimu . 

22/1 Swallow Lane. 

Jut February 

Hind Lamp Khikohabod via (VI. 

1 C/s Spare Parts. 

4th February 

GCL 

2 bags M /J >iso. 

21st May 

Kim 

1 Ps. Zinc Slab. 

1st June 

Lion Cal. 

. . 1 C/s M/Diso. 

2nd Juno 

Nil 

1 Ps Zinc Slab. 

30th June 

Nil 

. . 3 bags M/l>iHo. 

112/61 

Nil 

.. 11 Pkgs Tin Plato A a (pmntity Loose. 

446/61 

Nil 

. . 6 bags M/J Use. 

1642/61 

Nil 

A ijuantit\ Loose .VI malts Pipe?,. 

22nd June 1965 

Kypura GEO Calcutta 

♦ 1 Case Elec. 1 *ui do. 

2nd September 1966 

Nil 

* 1 Coho Machy . parts. 


p/u khartoom 

1966 

18th November 

C of S S. Rlv. Calcutta 

*1 Case U /I M purls. 

Sunny Prince 

12th December 

..Nil 

1 Case Tractor Implement s. 

Smitlua 

12th May 

.. Nil 

.. *9 B/s Writing paper. 

Kiklfecht 

1957 

11 th J anuary 

Philips Cal. . . • • 

*12 Ctns. Bulbs. 

Dmrhcnfels 

23rd May 

. . ELMJ . . 

1 Case Heating Elements. 

Unu'iikerk 

4tli September 

.. HASP 525766 

*2 Pkg Organic Chemical. 

Kryoto . . 

10th October 

USAP Ltd Cal. 

*1 Case Circular Saw. 

Taksang 

1 3th October 

Body in a diamond BBML around 

. . *1 Case glass bids. 

Argerifcls 

8th November 

. . BMW Cal or Nil . . 

*2 Pkgs. Automobile Accessories. 

Sunt Ina 

1958 

13tli January 

1 3-2 103023 294 o/c British Gurkha Transit *1 Case Weunng App. 

do Els 

6th February 

Camp. 

VoltiiH 206/8343 

*1 Case Barrel. 

ltichenfole 

8th February 

BE Co. Cal. 

** 18 Drums Phenolic Katun. 

Malukand 

16th March 

..Nil 

26 bags Cryolite. 

Fultolu 

29th November 

CEC around a triangle 

*1 Case Machy . Parts. 

Mocrkork 

. . 1009/68 

. . ELMI Cal. 

*1 Cuso Elec. Machy. parts. 

Raja 

1959 

13 th February 

Pradip Patna via Cal. 

*2 C/b Glass Tubes. 

Ind Security 

8th March 

. . Tata Marcedis Benz 56/998/PA-7135/04/68 *1 Case Tools. 

•lalaputra 

9th May 

Jamshedpur. 

..Nil 

*2 Drum M/oil. 

Mitaka>Maru 

16th May 

.. I. D. (VI 

*3 C/b Sewing Machine Machy. 

MwrkiTk 

17th June 

. . ELMI (VI. 

*2 Paper Drums Chemical. 

Bengal . . 

3rd July 

.. ELMI or Nil 

. . *2 Ctns Biukh Lam]) Cups. 

Tawttli . . 

16th July 

. . ELMI Cal. 

*1 Case Machy. Purts. 

* Ucka 

30th J uly 

D.1L C/o P.D. Jamshedpur etc. 

. . *1 Case Machy. parts. 

Siatina 

. . 31st July 

Tisco Tata 5394/PUREF etc. 

. . *16 Crates Firo bricks. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


•2 IS 


StoftinJTH iuurn\ 


Did. Spliiidor 
( * ol(i< m i Pels 
J ula/ml 
J a'.uihui a< 1 
V i o Lancaster 
Mush r- K* rk 
P/o 1 Mileage 
l nd. Success 
Steel Smveyor 


Bobinh . . 

.1 uladlimh 
( 'lun-St mill 
J >cv tuilm 
t S/< ) Wed Bengal 
Jala Diiliita 

Aimrc m Mud 
( 'umpliyu.** 
Malacca . . 

hid Mcjcliiuit 
Tulislic . . 

Indian Besolve 
( 'abut la xMuru 
Wdimapa 
Ditto 
Ditto 
Cliilka . 

Au^lod y k 
Fxcmplnr 
I ‘roti'i lot 
Makalla . . 

Aumv 

Hast cm Maid 
Guilt uleU 
1 > 1 1 I o 

Ditto 
Ditto 
Pindar 
ArdoJitw . 

Pou Lalci’u 
Susanin. 

Kaladii 

Mindorkerk 


TJhenfols 
Captain M Lyras 
Maipura 


u/c 

Ditto 
Ditto 
Ditto 
Dil lo 
Ditto 
Dit lu 
Ditto 
Dit I o 
Ditto 
J >»< to 
Ditto 


[Part j] 


Date of landing. 
1959 


Marks and numbers. 


1 2th August 
2nd September 
8t li September 
2Hh September 
9th October 
1 7tli ( Jet ol MT 
2nd J Jecember 
If S 1 1 1 Dor m her 
769/59 


CAP KH Ltd Cal. 

Miirlimd Techno (NhIor) etc. . . 

Nd 

OCX Cal. 

DLF/Pl 1 H/5 1 6/59/ 1 3 B 33 1 8N206 Cal. 

ELTVttPaL 

•lurk A l *o Pal. 

Jay Engineering Co. 

D. A* Vo 1513977 Momx Bombay 


Quantity and description. 


*1 Paso Finnic Stone. 

♦1 ( hbo Iron pkg. 

*1 Prato (Bass tubes. 

*12 Pods G.I. Wire. 

I Paso Stool Stripe. 

*1 Paso Murky. Parts. 

* 1 Puse t Mutch Po\er. 

*14 Drums quart/. sand. 
*1 Cln. Motor Horn. 


1960 

8th February 
91 h Prl unary 
I9tli February 
6tl» March 
14th Marrh 
4th April 

I 1 1 1 1 April 
19th April 
10th dune 
9th July 
I 7th d uly 
25th July 
3rd A i must 
5th August, 

15th August. 
Ditto 

19th August 
28 th August 
31st \ugust 
•till September 
I it li Keptenibei 
J 7 1 1 1 September 
22ml Srptemhrr 
241 h Srptoinhor 
I >il to 
J )itt,o 
Ditto 

7th October 
22nd October 
24th October 
4th No\ ember 
12th November 
17tli December 


AP 351/59 Pal. .. 

Philips Pul. 

H.K. W A Po. Pal. 

3425 in a diamond BA top 
Nd 

PL 3H 965860/194 966070/149 965862/119 
965795/152 

Bihar Collage Industry 

KJ 31/3 

KIB 091027/8 

Philips Moulding Powder or Nd 
Philips, Cal. 

( iSM W A F, ( ’al. 

888 in a triangle BS, SO, NP, PK, on tops 
Sou Knlngh W/BM/1/273 in a triangle 
Philips, < ’ah 

Akash Bam A-016/015 hi a diamond, etc* 
Philips Pal. 

Philips 25/60, Pul. . 

Pol\ lihre sav mm 
888 in a diamond 
Philips. ( ’al. 

Noitii I hook in a diamond 
PLW, Pal. 

Philips 

ilind Lamp Sikohahad 
Do. 

Do. 

Jessiim 9708, Cal. . 

Gestetner 


Miss Ausllrl P/o G. E. Hotel, Cal. 


WA or W1 

S Mud hi Imam H assail Manzil, 
HiikI Lamp Sikoliabad 


etc. 


*1 Pnso Boiler Bearing. 

*2 Vj 1 , s Klee. \ al ves. 

1 Case Kylets brass. 

1 Case Valve. 

2 Pcs Insulator 

*4 (5 uses Ball Bearmg 

4 P/s Pm tain Fabrics 
7 P/s Bayou Fabrica 
*2 Pial»*s steel rods 
32 Diiiiiih Moulding powder 
*4 P/s Electrodes 

* 1 8 P/s Niche! Sails of Boric Acid 
4 14 P/s mnhrellH eloth 

*24 I ) » ui i is steel vv ire 

4 1 Ptn. PM* *t . Mueliy. parts 
I Pin. Flee. Maehv. parts 

1 ( *u:-e Si, i i 1 ( 'ahinate 
*1 t 'use ( 'hai t paper, etc. 

*9 P/s Flower Bulbs 
I ( 'use umbrella eloth 
*1 Pa.-^e recoidmg paper, etc. 

*1 P.i,m‘ Steel Bing Washers 

* 1 ( "line ( 'hej meal. et e. 

*1 Par.e Aluminium Bods 

*1 Beel wire 

*14 Pans EthxJr Silicate 

5 Pkgs SyJltJl Itcnlll 
7 P/s Pistons 

1 Pum* Bushe.-> and Bearing parts 
1 ( '/ ! Mnrhy. 

*6 Pkgs Kuhher Sheets 

*1 Case V K fleet s 

*1 Case Steel Drum Washer 


1961. 

10t,h January 
3rd May 
11th May 


The Hony See, F Ind Hed Crows Society, ot,c 
Nd .. .. 

SIM K 87 7/60, etc . . 


8 Ct,ns P Effects 

*5 Bags Porn Alill 

**3 Puses Nit-ro Cellulose sheet 


Unconnected packages. 


Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 


500 Cases ni/clise 
1200 l‘kgs m/dise 
1500 Bags m /disc, 

A qty of Coils wire 
A qt y of in of Iron 
A qty cotton thread (loose) 

154 Bags Cement 
A qty ot pipes (Iron) 

A qty of broken asbestos pipe.n 
A qty of cotton aweeping 
A qty of broken glass 
23 Bales and a qty of iooso paper 


A. P. Mc.MAH0K* 
Traffio Manage** 

(379—1) 



Registered No. 0207 


Oklnttta 


©hr 





No. 19 of 1962 


dfertt? 


AKAKHA 20 ] 


THURSDAY, MAY 10, 1962 


[ SAKA 1884 


State Statistical Bureau — Ooet of living indexes, 
Calcutta, and wholesale prioe index 
for the week ending the 28th April 
1962 

Wholesale Market Prices of Agricultural and 
Animal Husbandry Products (average quality) 
in Calcutta during the month of JDeoenober 
1961 


CONTENTS: 

Page. 

Wholesale Market Prices of Agricultural and 
Animal Husbandly Products (average 
119—120 quality) in District during the mouth of 

November 1961 


121 — 130 Calcutta Improvement Trust— Notices 


Page. 


131— 168 

169 


SUPPLEMENT— Official Paper* 


iua No. 304 8TATE 8TATI8TI0AL BUREAU, WEST BENGAL 

TABLE I 

Cool of living indexe*. Calcutta and wbolasalo price index (week ending 28th April 1962) 

„ , . _ All-ludia wholesale 

Oort of living mdox — Base : Novwmbsr, 1980. prioe index*. 


A. 


Period. 




Expenditure level (in Rs.) 

_ > jk- 



Base. 

— i 

Converted 








‘ — t 

1 952-63. 

with 



1- 

-100 

101 

—200 

201- 

A 

-350 


November 



f 


r 



an eia^ 


1960 as 



All 

Food. 

All 

Food. 

Ail 

Food. 


base. 



items. 


items. 


item*. 




a> 


<*) 

(3) 

(4) 

(«) 

<•) 

0) 

(8) 

(•) 

M>4 January 

. . 

93*9 

8s*K 

94*1 

88*4 

94*7 

88*6 


top 

Apnl 

. . 

96*2 

90*4 

96* ft 

90*1 

96*3 

90*1 

.. 


July 


94*0 

89*4 

94*4 

89*5 

94*7 

89*6 

— t 


October 

— 

9 6-8 

91 *6 

96*8 

91*4 

96*6 

91*3 

- 

- 

Janaary 


90*7 

84*7 

91*1 

84*4 

91*7 

84*6 



Apnl 

... 

89*9 

83*0 

90*6 

83*7 

91*2 

84*0 

88*9 

82*3 

July 

. • 

91*1 

86*6 

91*6 

86*8 

W*0 

86*8 

92*9 

86*0 

October 

- 

91*7 

86*T 

93*9 

89*4 

94*0 

88*0 

90*6 

83*0 

Janaary 


90-9 

94*8 

91*0 

84*0 

•1*2 

83*7 

96*3 

88*8 

April 

• • 

96*2 

91*6 

94*8 

90*4 

94*6 

89*6 

100*0 

93*6 

July 

• . 

99-6 

98*0 

98*7 

96*3 

97*8 

94*7 

103*5 

96*6 

October 


102*4 

301 *3 

100*7 

98*9 

99*4 

96*9 

100*7 

98*8 



^levieed 

aeries (Base : 

1962-63) and the coarrespcnding converted serje*. 




120 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


Period. 


(D 

1057 January 
April 
July 
October 


1058 January 
April 
July 
October 


1950 January 
April 
July 
October 


1050 January 
April 
July 
October 



Cost of tiring index— Bess 

i November, 

i960. 


All-India wholesal* 
price index*. 



Expenditure level (in Ks) 



Bess. 

1052-58. 

Co&vertsd 

with 

1—100 


101—800 


201—850 
, A 



November 

1050 u 

4 A 

All 

items. 

Food. 

All 

items. 

Food. 

All 

items. 

Food. 


baas. 

(2) 

(8) 

<4> 

(0) 

(0) 

(7) 

(0) 

<»> 

08 *4 

94*6 

07*0 

01*0 

96*2 

90*8 

107 *8 

00-4 

100*6 

98 *0 

08*0 

05*6 

07 *0 

•8*6 

106 -5 

08-1 

106*0 

105 >8 

104*1 

103 *0 

102*7 

100*7 

111*0 

103 -6 

107*6 

107*0 

106*7 

104 *0 

104*0 

102*8 

108 *0 

100 -8 


105 *0 

101 *8 

108 *1 

98*1 

101 -8 

05*4 

106-0 

9ft *2 

106*0 

108*1 

104 *4 

100 *2 

108 *2 

07 *• 

107 *4 

99 

100 -4 

107*8 

107 *0 

104*0 

106*7 

102 *6 

114 *7 

106-2 

118*8 

114*3 

111*2 

118*8 

100*8 

108*6 

116*2 

107*6 


108*5 

97 *8 

102 *0 

05*5 

102 *7 

04*6 

112*3 

104 -o 

105 *8 

100*9 

106*1 

99*4 

104 *6 

08 *2 

111 -9 

io;< t* 

110 -4 

108*3 

109*2 

106*1 

108*1 

104 *0 

116-8 

10K 2 

114*6 

118*0 

113*0 

113*4 

111 *6 

111*0 

110-3 

ill-6 


no *4 

108*8 

108*6 

105 *3 

107 *6 

108 *2 

118*8 

110 -6 

110*5 

108-0 

108*0 

105 *2 

107-0 

103 *3 

120 *6 

111-6 

114 *4 

118*9 

112*8 

111 *6 

111*6 

109 *6 

124*7 

116 -fi 

114-4 

113 *5 

113*2 

111 *8 

112*2 

110 -4 

126 *3 

117 -C 


1061 January 
February 
March 
April 
May 
June 
July 
August 
September 
October 
November 
Deoember 


1062 January 
February 


109 *7 105*0 
110-6 106*1 
110*0 106 1 
112*0 108*2 
112*1 107-8 
118-7 110- 1 
116*2 iUl 
117*0 116*8 
118*0 116*4 
119*0 110*7 
120*3 120*4 
117*0 114*5 


114*4 110*1 

114*3 109*7 


108*7 103*2 

100*5 104*3 

100 *9 104 *6 

111*4 107*2 

111*4 107*0 

112*7 100*1 

115*1 113*2 

116*6 116*7 

116*6 116-2 

118*2 110*2 

118*4 118-4 

115*3 112*6 


112*8 108*0 

112*8 107*7 


108 *4 102 *3 
100 *0 102 *3 
100 *5 108 9 
111*0 106*6 
111*0 106*5 
112*1 108*4 
114*2 112*2 
115*5 114*6 
116*4 113-8 
116-0 116-7 
116-0 116-6 
114*1 111*1 


112*1 107*0 

112*1 106*6 


126*6 11C* 

126*7 117* 

127*5 m- 

126-8 116* 

126*3 116* 1 

125*9 lid* 

128*7 110*: 

127*4 11&- 

124*6 11&- 

124*4 116* 

124-3 11 6* 

122*9 US’ 


123-3 l 14 * 

124*3 116 ,] 


Week ending 

3 J*3«62 

7*4*62 

14-4-62 

21-4-62 

28-4-62 


115-6 

112-0 

114*1 

118*0 

115-9 

116*2 

118*6 

116-9 

117*1 

119*9 

110*1 

117*9 

119*8 

118*8 

117*8 

•Revised m 

rise (Beset 

1953-53) m 


110-2 

113*3 

100*1 

114*0 

115-1 

112*6 

115*4 

116*0 

114*4 

117*0 

116*6 

115-4 

116*6 

116*4 

114-0 


the corresponding oenverted series. 


123*0 

123*5 

124*6 


113 

in 

115 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


121 


SB 4, 

wholesale prices of agricultural and animal husbandry products (average quality) in Calcutta 

during December 1961. 


Commodity. 

Unit. 

Dates. 

Monthly 

average. 

Average 

of 

November, 

1961. 

Avorugo 

of 

December, 

1900. 

1st 

8th 

15 th 

22nd 

29th 



Ho. nP. 

R». nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Ku. nP. 

Kb. uP. 

Gertali 









Per Md. 

Kicw (Fine) Bhoeamanik .. 

75 Kg 

46-80 

40 - SO 

46 80 

46-05 

46*05 

46-50 

46-80 

24-10 

4 tfce (Fine) Bupsal 

.. 

50-25 

50-25 

50 25 

48-98 

48-23 

40-50 

50 -25 

26*40 

ilice (Medium) Nagra 


46 75 

45-75 

45 75 

44 90 

44-18 

46 27 

45 -75 

22-50 

Bice (Medium) Kalma 

99 

40-23 

40-80 

40 80 

45-97 

45 53 

46-20 

40 -28 

28-50 

Ki<* (Combo) Weflt Bengal 

»» 

42-76 

42-75 

42-75 

41-96 

40-20 

42 21 

42 -75 

20*80 

Hice (Coarse) Orissa 

»• 

41-25 

41-26 

41 -25 

40-44 

30-23 

40-68 

41 26 

19-29 



4th 

11th 

lvSth 

25th 

— 




Wheat (East Punjab) 

Quintal 

01 02 

01 02 

61 62 

00 28 


#1-28 

69-61 

N.S. 

•Wheat (Govt. Stock) 

99 

37-61 

37*51 

17-61 

37-61 


37-51 

87-52 

37 61 
(Quintal) 

f\fcta • ■ * * 

ft 

41 -53 

41 -63 

41 -53 

41 63 

— 

41 53 

42 89 

15-60 

Alta (Agmark) 

99 

41 -63 

41 53 

41 53 

41 *63 

— 

41 53 

41 53 

41 68 
(Quintal) 

•Atta (Fair Price Shop) . . 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

— ■ 

N.S. 

40 10 

40-10 

(Quintal) 

Muida 

»» 

N.8. 

61*64 

61 04 

#1.04 

— 

61.64 

N.S. 

21.81 

•M.ucla (Fair Price Shop) . . 


57*10 

57*10 

57-10 

57 10 

— 

57 10 

55 75 

65-76 

(Quintal) 

iSuji 

>» 

N.S. 

65 66 

66.05 

65.06 

— 

06 06 

00-28 

22 -50 

Sago (Cochin) (Tapioca 

99 

75-00 

77-70 

77-70 

77-70 

— 

77 02 

05-00 

25 50 

globules) 


1 st 

8 th 

15th 

22 ud 

29th 




M aisr.u* (Bihar) 

tt 

30*85 

87 -52 

37 52 

34 84 

34 84 

30 31 

36 51 

13*90 

.lowur (U. P.) 

.. 

30-85 

37 -52 

37 52 

87 62 

37.52 

37 38 

36 34 

10-15 



4th 

11th 

18th 

25th 

— 




liaison 

•* 

61 -64 

53 -60 

53 00 

53-60 

— 

55-02 

46 81 

17-50 

Hurley 

•• 

38-80 

40 19 

37 -52 

38-19 

— 

38-09 

30 -84 

15-26 

Pulsei (Whole) 


1 st 

8th 

15th 

22 nd 

29th 



Per Md. 

Muiig (Ordinary) U. P. 

Quintal 

40-90 

48-24 

40 -90 

40 90 

Mi. 90 

47 10 

48-57 

20 -30 

Macur (Big) Bhupal 

,, 

49 58 

52 -20 

50-92 

50 92 

50.92 

50*92 

49 58 

18-80 

Masur (Small) West Bengal 

tt 

42-88 

44-22 

42-88 

42-88 

42 . 88 

43-14 

42-19 

16- -50 

M tt.su r (Big) (Khari) Bhupal 

tt 

61 -64 

Ci 32 

62 98 

62 -9s 

62.98 

62 98 

60 96 

21-00 

Mbhut (Small) (Khari) West 

99 

56-28 

57-62 

54-94 

64-94 

54.94 

55-74 

53-35 

19-50 

Bengal 

frill (Hi«) (Black) M. P. .. 

It 

57*62 

58-94 

56 28 

50-28 

56.2-1 

57 08 

59 95 

19-00 

frill (Small) (Black) West 
liongal 

‘•ram (Big) East Punjab .. 

tt 

54*94 

56-28 

50 92 

48 24 

48 . 24 

51 72 

50 96 

16-50 

tt 

45 -50 

45 66 

44 -22 

44 22 

(4.22 

44 75 

45-89 

18-00 

fram (Small) West Bengal 


40 19 

40-19 

37 52 

37 -52 

37.52 

3s -68 

49 54 

15 15 

Mai u r (Big) tT. p. 


45 -56 

45-56 

45 56 

1 

45 56 

45.56 

45 -56 

46-23 

17-50 


’(Controlled commodity. The prices of controlled commodities represent the ratejj at which licensed retailor* get their lupplii 
fom Government, 








SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


122 


Wholawl* pricw D#e*mb*r 1961 


Commodity. 

M 

Dates. 

Monthly 
average. 1 

Average 
of | 

November,; 
1961. 

Average 

of 

December 
i960. ’ 

HI 

1st 

8th 

15 th 

22nd 

29th 



Rs. uP. 

Kb. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Us. up. 

PubM (Whol.l — conoid. 









Per Md. 

Matar (Uata) . . 

Quintal 

42-88 

42-88 

42-88 

42-88 

48-24 

48-16 

43-88 

16*25 

Arhar (Big) U. P. 

M 

44 22 

46 23 

45-56 

44-22 

44-22 

44 89 

44-77 

15 -55 

Arliar (Small) West Bengal 

99 

40 10 

41-60 

41 60 

41 60 

41 -60 

41*31 

39 -87 

16*20 

Khesari (Big) M. P. 

„ 

86 18 

36-18 

36-18 

36-18 

36-18 

36 -J 8 

36-17 

11-35 

Khesari (Small) West Bengal 

#» 

32 16 

33 '50 

33-50 

33 50 

33-50 

33 23 

31-87 

10*46 

Kulti (Horae Gram) 

„ 

37 52 

37 62 

37-52 

37 52 

37-52 

37 *52 

37-52 

12-60 

Chora (Barbati) 

M 

134' 00 

134-00 

134 00 

107 20 

107-20 

128*28 

154 10 

32 -00 

Dal (Split PuIsm) 










Mung (Ordinary) U. P. . . 

Quintal 

67 O') 

67 00 

64-32 

62*98 

62-98 

(i4- 85 

69*01 

25-15 

Masur (Big) Bhupal • . 

»p 

53 60 

64 94 

54-94 

54-94 

54-94 

54 67 

53 93 

19-30 

Masur (Small) West Bengal 

•» 

50-92 

50-92 

50-92 

50-92 

50-92 

50-92 

49 -60 

18 00 

ITrid jpig Blaok) M. P. . . 

•» 

77-70 

77*70 

75-02 

71-22 

71-22 

74-57 

76 -69 

23 00 

Urid (Small Blaok) West 

M 

69 -68 

71 02 

67 -00 

65-66 

65-66 

67 80 

71-69 

21 <20 

Bengal 

Urid (Big) (White) M. P. . . 

»* 

75 02 

76- 02 

73 70 

73-70 

73-70 

74 22 

74 02 

26 -00 

Gram (Big) ’East Punjab . . 

99 

50-92 

61 69 

50 25 

50-26 

60-26 

50 67 

51-92 

20*40 

Matar (Big) U. P. 

99 

46-90 

.48-24 

43 45 

43 45 

43 45 

44-89 

49-24 

18 30 

Matar (Gata) 

*» 

58*94 

60*38 

60 38 

60- 38 

60-38 

61 -53 

68 -94 

21-55 

Arhar (Big) U. P. 

99 

61 -64 

61 -64 

68-94 

58 -94 

58-94 

60-02 

64 34 

22*65 

Arhar (Small) West Bengal 

99 

54-94 

54 -94 

52 20 

52*26 

52-26 

53 33 

55 27 

20-15 

Khesari (Big) M. P. 

M 

42-88 

42 -88 

41 -60 

41-60 

41-60 

42 08 

43 21 

14-25 

Khesari (Small) West Bengal 

99 

40 19 

40-19 

38*86 

38-86 

38-86 

39 -39 

40 54 

13-25 

8picM 










Onion ( Bombay) 

10 Kg. 

3 48 

3-90 

3-09 

2*55 

2-28 

8 .°| 

, 4- 63 

13*20 

Onion (Tripuri) 

.. 

4-82 

4-66 

4-02 

N.S. 

N.S. 

4 4? 

Y 4-39 

— 

Onion (Doshi) 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

3-22 

2 14 

2*68 

N.S. 

11-26 

Onion (Madras) 

99 

N.S. 

4-02 

2-95 

2*28 

2-28 

2*88 

N.S. 

— 

Garlic 

40 Kg. 

32 -00 

32-00 

31-00 

31-00 

30-00 

31 -20 

33 -50 

18-00 

Ginger (Green) 

M 

21 -44 

19 30 

19-00 

18-50 

18-00 

19 24 

23 18 

24-00 

Ginger (Dry) 

Quintal 

187-60 

187 -60 

1 92 -36 

192 36 

192 -36 

190*45 

209 -63 

70 -0C 

Tamarind (with seed) 

»> 

48-88 

48-88 

48-88 

42 -88 

53*60 

48-62 

44-22 

23 0C 

Turmeric (Erode) 

r>o Kg. 

77 -72 

77 -72 

76-38 

76-38 

73-70 

76 -38 

75 -71 

47 -0C 

Turmeric (Madras) • • 

•* 

61 84 

61-84 

60 30 

80-30 

60*30 

60-83 

60-63 

36 -40 

Chillies (Bihar) 

»» 

127-30 

123-28 

116-58 

116-58 

116*58 

120*60 

127*30 

| 89-00 

Chillies Bengal (Tutiooria) 

1 •• 

113-90 

120-60 

j 127-30 

127*30 

127*30 

123*48 

107-20 

100 -oc 


N. S. = No supply. 







SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


123 


Oactmbtr 1961 


Commodity. 

Unit. 



Dates. 



Monthly 

Average 

of 

Average 

of 

1st 

8th 

15 th 

22nd 

29th 

average. 

November. 

1961. 

December, 

1900. 

SpiCM — ooncld* 


Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Per lid. 

Unok Pepper 

50 Kg 

206 (H) 

206 00 

206-00 

206-00 

206*00 

206-00 

432 16 

193 *00 

tniseed (Mouri) (Cleaned) 

M 

62 98 

62*98 

60-30 


60-30 

61*37 

eo 00 


Vuiuwd (Mouri) (Uncleaned) 

_ PP 

40 20 

42*88 

42-88 

42-88 

40-20 

41-80 

35 00 


tietelnut (Aleppi) 

• 1 

335-00 

335 00 

321 60 

335 00 

321*60 

329-64 

348-40 

206-00 

ietelnut (Penang) (Split) 
Medium 

tJotelnut (Singapore)Medium 

M 

365 10 

335 10 

341-70 

348-40 

335*00 

330-06 

348-40 

215-00 

- 

341*70 

341*70 

335-00 

341-70 

328*30 

837-68 

348-40 


Betelnut (Sundried sliced) 

00 

273*36 

273 36 

273 36 

281*40 

281-40 

276-57 

272-02 


Katha (Oul«) 

do 

227*80 

227*80 

227-80 

227 00 

227*00 

227-48 

227 80 


\»tha (Singapore) 

»• 

636-00 

536 00 

636-00 

536-00 

536-00 

536*00 

636 00 


kiitha (.lomikpur) (Black) 

PP 

482-40 

482 • 40 

482 40 

482*40 

482*40 

482-40 

482*40 

380-00 

orriandor (Dhama,) 

PP 

56*28 


67-00 

67*00 

60-30 

62-44 

62 *62 

60-00 

((loaned). 










'on tender (JJhania) 

,, 

28«89 

28-89 

26*80 

29-48 

26*80 

28-17 

81-22 

35-00 

(Undeauod). 










Jinnamon (Darohini) 

1 Kg. 

28*89 

28-89 

29-96 


27*82 

29-10 

28*89 

— 

doves (Zanzibar) 

M 

31-03 

31-00 

30-96 

30*96 

30*96 

30-98 

82-10 


^jwan(Hig) 

50 Kg. 

48* 80 

48.80 

46-00 

46 90 

46-56 

47*39 

42 10 

30-00 

Ij^an (Small) 

» 

26*75 

26-75 

80*82 

30 82 

30-82 

29-19 

2918 

22*00 

Jurannnsced (Zeora) (Cleaned) 

00 

117*70 

120-60 

127*30 

127-30 

134 00 

125-38 

120 92 

90-00 

'ummuiHPOft (Zeera) (Un- 

M 

85*60 

85-60 

98 80 


100.50 

91-86 

86*65 


<‘loHnqi). 









lilark Cummin (Kola Zeera) 

>• 

63 00 

63-00 

07*00 

67-00 

68*34 

65-66 

03-00 

53-60 

Mot tunned 

90 

42-80 

42-80 

46-90 

46-90 

46*90 

44-06 

44 10 

34*00 

Iffvrohiilan (West Bengal) 

Quintal , 

13 40 

13-40 

13 40 

13-40 

13*40 

13-40 

13-40 

6*00 

.urdemom (Elaehi) (Large) 
Kahmpong. 

00 

227*80 

233-16 

233-16 

236-86 

235*85 

233-16 

211*50 

91*40 
Per Sear 

krdnmom (Elaehi) (Small) 
Mysore. 

1 Kg. 

20 *30 

20-30 

20-30 

22*47 

21*40 

20*95 

20 33 

20-40 

Potato and VagatablM 










>t»to (Deehi Nninital) 

10 Kg. 

617 

4-82 

4-29 

3 09 

2-82 

4 -23 

1 N.S. 

12-00 

>l *to (Simla) 

PP 

N.S, 

6-70 

N.S, 

N,S, 

N.S. 

6*70 

6-13 

— 

>l ato (Behar) (Round) 

.0 

6*70 

4-56 

4-29 

2-82 

2*68 

4*21 

— 

12-00 

’“to (IT. P. (Round) .. 

00 

N.S. 

4-44 

4-02 

N.S. 

N,K, 

4*23 

5*88 

— 

***to(P, P, Noinital) 

o. 

6*57 

4-70 

4*29 

N.S. 

N.S. 

5-18 

7*60 

12-55 

'•"I Potato 

Quintal 

26-80 

26-80 

24-12 

21 44 

26*80 

25*19 

21*17 

7*70 

r " t Pumpkin 

i* 

40*20 

37-52 

26*80 

26*80 

32*16 

32-69 

38*90 

7*40 

,u «>y Beans 

„ 

64*32 

42-88 

32-16 

32-16 

N.S, 

42-88 

64-30 

18 *80 

'"j® 1 (Round) 

M 

40 20 

37-52 

. 40*20 

32*16 

37*52 

37-52 

47 *57 

6-80 


»» 

32 16 

26 -80 

26*80 ! 

24 12 

32-16 

i 

28-60 | 

39*30 

4*60 


N. 8.*No .apply. 


































SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10. 1962 


124 


Wholesale price* 


Commodity. 

Unit. 


1st 




K». nP. 

Us. nP. 

Potato and Voc# tablet 




- cvncld. 




Bittergourd (Uehhe) 

Quintal 

42-88 

48- 24 

Bittergourd (Karela) 

M 

53-00 

58-90 


to 

26-80 

21 44 

j 

Pacai 

M 

107-20 

107-20 

Kachu 

M 

32 16 

32*10 

Hit dish (Dorthi) 

ion 

1 25 

1 - 12 

, 'unimbor 

99 

2-50 

2-50 

( jrt OOJ 1 1 ’ItUlt W 'll 

9f 

2-50 

2*50 

Barbati 

Quintal 

82*10 

32-10 



20 80 

20 80 

Green Chilles (Bihar) 

»» 

80-40 

80-40 

(’al)bago (Local) 

M 

42-88 

32-10 

Cauliflower (Local; • 

100 

25-00 

10' 00 

Pooh (Darjeeling) 

Quintal 

120-60 

107-20 

Peas(U.P,) 

e* 

107-20 

93-80 

Froneh Beans (Bihar) • - 1 

i 

or 

07 00 

07-00 

1 

Tomato (Bihar) • • 1 

SI ' 

67-00 

53-00 

Tomato (U, P.) 

99 

80-40 

(17-00 

Carrot (Madras) 

99 

N.S. 

53-00 

Carrot (Darjeeling) 

M 

53 • 60 

N.S. 

Squash (Darjeohng) 

M 

N.S. 

53-60 

Spinach 

*f 

26-80 

20-80 

Beetroot (Madras) 

M 



Boetroot (U. P.) 

M 

67-00 

07.00 

Turnip (U . P«) 

M 



Turnip (Bihar) 

r» 



Turnip (Local) 

- 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Fruits (Frith) 




liunana ( ►■abri) 

100 

1 4 • 00 

14-00 

Banana (Smgapore) (Medium 

) .0 

6 00 

6-0) 

Banana (Champa) (Modiura) 

»» 

500 

5 -00 

Orange (Nagpur) 

»* 

9-00 

N.S. 

Orange (Madras) 

»» 

N.S. 

e 

N.S. 

Orange (Darjeeling) 

" 

9*00 

8-00 

Mo«am tuque (Sweet Lime) 

1 »• 

| 17-00 

10 * oc 


December 


Dates. 


l 

| 

Monthly 

Average 

of 

November, 

1961. 

Aw*r,n g 
ut 

1 %o. 

m 

22nd 

29th 

average. 1 

Ha. 11 P. 

Ka. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

Ra. nl 5 . 

Rs. nP. 

Ra. u i» 






Per Md 

48-24 

46-24 

46-24 

40-36 

66-31 

18-01 

04 -22 

53*60 

53-60 

50-81 

72-25 

- 

21-44 

10*08 

21-44 

21-65 

19-90 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

107-20 

99-44 


20-80 

20-80 

21 -44 

27-87 

25-01 


2*00 

4-00 

1-00 

1-87 

3 50 

2-71 

0-00 

7-00 

6-00 

4-80 

4 37 

4-3i 

3 00 

2-50 

3-00 

2-70 

3-00 

? o 

32- 10 

32-10 

32 -10 

32- 16 

30-28 

♦Hi 

20 80 

20 80 

21-44 

25-72 

29 28 

7 U 

US-76 

80-40 

107-20 

80-83 

98-05 

18-4 

20-80 

21 44 

18-70 

28-30 

82-90 

II Mi 

20-00 

25-00 

20-00 

20-00 

N.S. 

20-li 

93 • 80 

85-70 

N.S. 

81 47 

137 35 

42*11 

93 • 80 

101-84 

107-20 

100-76 

107 00 

35-11 

75-04 

107-20 

120-00 

87-94 

73-70 

27-1 

37-52 

N.S. 

N.S. 

52 • 70 

98-20 

i t 

42-88 

N.S. 

N.S. 

03-42 

103*09 

24 . 

CIO 

N.S. 

N.S. 

50-92 

07 on 

- 

N.S. 

. N.S. 

N.S. 

53-60 

80-40 

let 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

53*00 

51 59 

j 

... 

32 -16 

20-80 

18-70 

24-05 

N.S. ! 

/>*) 





01 -64 


07-00 

07-00 

53 00 

04-32 

73 • 25 

23 ■' 





50-92 

11 : 





12 -88 

11 1 

N.S. 

26-80 

II 

21*44 

24-12 

N.S. 

10 

14-00 

14-00 

14*00 

14-00 

12 50 

11 

5- 50 

5 50 

5-50 

5*70 

5 58 

5 

4-5o 

4 6«» 

4-50 

4-70 

4 25 

3 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

9*00 

13-00 

6- 

N.S. 

N.S, 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13-33 


7-00 

7-00 

7-00 

7-00 

9-00 

7 

15-00 

j 17-00 

17-00 

16*40 

17-75 

12 


N. 8.— Noeapply 






SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCU I T GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


125 


Whata** 1 * Pri*** DaeamNr INI 


Commodity. 

Unit. 

Dates. 

Monthly 

Average 

of 

Average 

of 

1st 

8th 

15th 

22nd 

29th 

average. 

November, 

1961. 

December 

1960. 



Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. uP. 

Rs. nP. 

Ra. uP. 

Rs. uP. 

R». up. 

Fruits (Froth)— ooncld. 









Per Md. 

Pineappl© (Kew) 

100 

85-00 

75-00 

75.00 

100*00 

90-00 

86.00 

85.00 

88-00 

Api>l8 (KttJirair) 

Md. 

180-00 

140-00 

140-00 

150-00 

150-00 

142-00 

130-00 

o 

© 

Cl 

Cl 

Apple (Simla) 

#» 

130-00 

140 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

135 00 

125-00 


Guavas 

it 

18-00 

12-00 

12-00 

12-00 

12 -00 

12-20 

14-00 


Urn® (Sour) 

100 

4- 00 

3-00 

3-50 

3 50 

3-50 

3 50 

4-00 

8-80 

i’upuy a { Ripe) 

Md. 

40-00 

40-00 

4000 

53-65 

40-00 

43-41 

40-00 

29-20 

Pomegranate (Bedaha) 

tt 

400-00 

400-00 

400-00 

400-00 

400-00 

400-00 

400-00 

100 -00 

(’oooanut (Green) 

100 

22-00 

22 00 

22 00 

22-00 

22-00 

22-00 

22-00 

20-00 

Fruits (Dry) 


5th 

12 th 

19th 

26 th 




Per Md. 

AlmMids (in shell Chaman 

60 Kg. 

442 • 20 

442-20 

442 20 

442-20 

— 

442-20 

437-05 

280-00 

No. I)- 

Almonds (in shell Chaman 


376-20 

375-20 

375-20 

375-20 


375-20 

305-15 

210-0W 

No. 2). 

Almond* (without shell) 

f * 

777-00 

777-60 

777-60 

777-60 



777-60 

757-50 

340-00 

{Iran). 


1st 

8tli 

15th 

22nd 

29th 




Got'oamit (with shell) (Ben- 
gal) (Medium) 

100 

80 00 

36 00 

34 00 

34-00 

34-00 

34 80 

30-00 

24-40 

Copra (Tiptur) 

60 Kg. 

144-70 

289-40 

805 48 

305-48 

305-48 

270-10 

147 39 

90*00 

Copra ( Andaman) 

99 

72-30 

| 71-02 

72 36 

72 36 

72-36 

72-09 

71-40 

56*40 



6th 

12th 

19 th 

i 

26th 

1 ~ 

1 



Groundnut ( Decor tioated) 

99 

56-28 

60*30 

64-32 

64 32 


61-30 

50-28 

40-00 

Haisins (Peshawar) (Old) . . 

99 

254-00 

264-60 

254-60 

301-50 

- 

266 32 

254-60 

117 50 

(New) . . 

99 

N.S. 

402-00 

402-00 

435-50 

— 

412-83 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Walnut (in shell) 

99 

120-60 

120-60 

120 60 

120-60 

— 

120 60 

120-60 

80-00 

Walnut (Kernel) 

99 

241 20 

241-20 

241 -20 

241-20 

— 

241 20 

241-20 

160-00 

Can lie w (Kernel) 

99 

274 00 

274-00 

i 

274-60 

274 60 

— 

274-60 

274-00 

217-50 

Apricot 

99 

241-20 

241-20 

241-20 

241-20 

— 

241 20 

241-20 

145 00 

Pistachio (Pesta) 

1 Kg. 

16-06 

16-65 

1605 

16-05 

— 

16-05 

16-05 

21*00 

0pt8« (Bagdad) (Black) . . 

50 Kg. 

67 • 00 

67-00 

67-00 

67 00 

— 

67-00 

67-00 

55-00 

J> *toa (Basra) (Red) 

»> 

46-90 

45*56 

45-56 

45-56 

— 

45 - 89 

44-89 

46-00 

Etn. 


4th 

11th 

18 th 

25th 





Ha, Egg (Agmark) (Medium) 

1,000 

183-00 

190-00 

183-00 

183-00 

-- 

184*40 

187-00 

163-25 

H«o Egg (Ungraded) 

It 

105-00 

170-00 

165-00 

160-00 

— 

165 -00 

177-50 

141-25 

Duck Egg (Deahi) 

” j 

160-00 

155-00 

135 00 

135-00 

— 

146 25 

152-60 

133*00 

^ Egg (Madras) 

•» 

170-00 

160-00 

145-00 

140-00 

— . 

153 -75 

154-00 

132*25 

■— 











N. 8. —No supply. 






SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


W MUrt i pHm 


Dtcamber 186i 



Monthly 

Average 

of 

average. 

November 

1961. 


Averu^t 

of 

l^ocoraber 

i960. 


Poultry. 

Fow 1 (Li vo weight) 

Chicken (Live weight) 

Duck (Live weight) 

Pigeon (Live weight) 

Meat. 

Beef ( lie tail Price) 

Mutton (Retail Price) 

Goat meat (Retail Price) . . 
Pork ( Freeh 1 (Retail Tiice) 

Milk and Milk Products. 

Milk (Cow) 

Milk (Buffalo) 


Ka, nP. Rs. nP. Ra. nP. Rs. nP. B»- nP - Rs - llP * Rs ‘ uP * Ka - 


50 Kg. 


20000 I 
226 00 
105 00 
276 00 


70-00 

140-00 

140*00 

100-00 


187-50 
250*00 
175 00 


140-00 

150-00 

100-00 


200-00 

250-00 


200*00 

300*00 


140-00 

150-00 

100-00 


190*87 | 
250-00 
185 00 
287 50 


70-00 
140.00 
147 • n0 
100 00 


I (Per loo 
IbB) 

222-50 202-50 

250-00 212-50 

157-50 132-50 

287*50 2G12V 

Per Md. 
60-00 

140-00 120 -oo 

140 00 12d 0" 

100 -00 »0-0U 


29 th 

24-50 20-70 34- 

35-00 30 00 38-75 37-0»» 


Butter (Bihar) (Halted) 

Butter (Bihar) (uimalted) 

Ghee (ordinary) 

Ghee Agmark (Bihar) 

Ghee Agmark (TJ. P.) 

Ghee Agmark (Madraw) 

Chhana 


Quintal 050-00 
1st 


589-00 
4 th 

010-40 050-00 

010-40 043-20 

1st 8 

070-00 
4th 

003 • 00 
45 • 50 


070 -00 
043-20 


05 0 -00 
643-20 


22 
090-80 
25th 
003-00 
20-00 


050-00 I 010-40 


010-40 011 00 589-00 I 212-0" 



049 -90 I 009 *70 I 230 1 


090*80 091-40 


603-00 
32 50 


Flak. 

Katla 

Rohu 

Hike 

Chingri (Bagda) 
Beokti 

TtiiHia Salmon 
Mullet (Bhangan) 


Quintal 375*20 | 
„ 402-00 

M 294*80 

M 348-40 

„ 335-00 

„ 241-20 

208 -00 


321 

00 

321 

■00 

294- 

80 

00 

n 

■40 

321 

•GO 

214 

•40 

294 

GO 

O 


321 

00 

321 

■60 

294 

00 

o 

CO 

-+ 

€0 

40 

28l - 

•40 

214 

•40 

294 

® 

X 


321 00 
321-60 
294-80 
32100 
281-40 
214-40 
294-80 


335 -00 
341 70 321-00 

294.80 298-15 


» t»' ; - 

321-00 101 2 


241-70 281-40 | 

! 

304-70 321 00 

221-10 25400 

288-70 278 05 


N. 8.— No supply. 























SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


127 


rhriMri* Dtcambmr 1961 


Commodity . 

U ni t . 

Dates. 

Monthly 

Average 

of 

Average 

of 

4th 

1 1th 

18th 

25th 

— 

average. 

Novembor, 

1961. 

December, 

1960. 

- - 


Rh. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Its. nP. 

R-.. nP. 

Rh. nl\ 

Rh. nl . 

Fill) — -conoid. 









Per Md. 

in .,wh (Butter fnh) 

Quintal 

291-80 

294-80 

294-80 

294*80 

- 

294-80 

2*'4-80 

97 60 

ioi 

99 

348 10 

375-20 

375 20 

375 -20 

-- 

368-50 

43 * 25 

120 00 

linin’ 

•• 

482-40 

482-40 

482 40 

482-40 

-- 

4 82 40 

423 75 

137-60 

Dry fish. 










iomliAV Duck 

Md. 

90 00 

t» 0 -oo 

90*00 

80 • 00 

— 

87-50 

82-60 

85 00 

Seokti (Big) • • 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

70*00 

— 

70*00 

72-00 

76-00 

ieekti (Small) 

.. 

75-00 

75 -00 

75 -00 

65-00 

— 

72-50 

70*00 

— 

J raw ns (with Sholl) 

99 

70 -00 

70 00 

70-00 

55 -00 


66 -26 

70-00 

66 00 

>rawnH (without Shell) 

»* 

140*00 

140-00 

140 00 

120-00 

— 

136-00 

130*00 

120.00 

Sheep and Goal. 










joat (10 near* not weight 

Por head. 

30 00 

38 00 

38*00 

37-00 

— 

37 25 

37 50 

34-00 

oi IIUMlI ). 

,; K vj> ( 10 sooih not weight «»t 


34 (Mi 

36 0<) 

36*00 

35 • 00 

— 

85 25 

32-75 

31-60 

moat). 










Milch Cattle. 










'a ws (milk yield of >1 hoops a 

Per head . 

200-00 

225 00 

225-00 

226-00 

— * 

218.75 

226 00 

226*00 

liny). 

’nuKlimlk yield of 1 sooi-h a 


250 00 

300-00 

325-00 

325-00 



300.00 

275-00 

276*00 

day). 

(milk yield of 0 hooi*m ii 

>f 

350 on 

400 00 

400-00 

400 • 00 


387.50 

375 00 

376 00 

«*“')• 

lullulit (milk yield of 6 seers 


450-00 

450 00 

450-00 

450-00 

— 

450.00 

468-76 

400*00 

a da) ). 

•uifalo (milk \ lold <>i 8 hooih 
m day). 

” 

525-00 

650*00 

l 

600-00 

600 00 

— 

568.75 

637-05 

460 00 

Cattle Fodder 


5th 

1 2th 

19th 

26 th 

— 




a lion t limn 

65 Kg. 

13*24 

11 77 

11 77 

14 -74 

I 

12*88 

j 

14 74 

9 37 

ora Bran 

,, 

4*07 

4 07 

407 

4-07 

j 

4*07 j 

4 43 

2*76 

Zinnur UlniHi (Chuni mixed) 

M 

13-26 

13-26 

13-26 

13 -26 

— 

13-26 

12*70 

9 00 

Klumri Bhusi 

»• 

13 25 

12 54 

12 64 

12-64 

— 


13*29 

8 25 

l'di(‘SMii Bhusi (Chuni mixed) 

,, 

16 *23 

1G -23 

16 23 

14 -74 

— 

15.87 

15 67 

7 37 

Chuni 


18*46 

19 20 

19-20 

14 -74 

— 

17.90 

18-05 

13-12 

^dmr Bhusi (Chuni mixed) 

»» 

16-99 

16-99 

: 

10-99 

16 -23 



16.80 

16-61 

12*60 

Chum 

»» 

15-12 

14 74 

14-74 

14 *74 | 

i 

14 83 

16 32 

12*12 

*' a <% Straw . . 

Md. 

2-50 

2 ■ 25 

2 25 

2-87 

_ 

2 46 

2 50 

2 87 

( * r ‘“('U CmsH (Retail Price) 


3*30 

2-25 

3-30 

2-25 


2-77 

2-43 

2-87 

Oil Seeds. 


1st 

. th 

15th 

22nd 

29 th 




hfomulimt (undeeortieatod) 

Quintal 

75*02 

75-02 

75*02 

75*02 

75*02 

75-02 

73 01 

70- *0 

Cantor 

,* 

63*63 

63*63 

62-96 

64-97 

69-9K 

65 03 

01*45 

64-30 

^^.l (rtrnall) (Bihar) 

,, 

83 72 

84-39 

83 05 

81-72 

82*06 

82-98 

1 82 *72 

73*64 

ril (SiHttnmm) 

>t 

109-85 

113*87 

116*21 

120*57 

120*57 

116 01 

112 19 

123 51 













N. S.— No supply, 











128 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


Wholaral* prtoM 


Dtetmbtr l|| 


Commodity. 


Unit. 


Quintal 


Quintal 


Oil frit— conoid. 
Mustard (yellow) ((jhijrat) 
Mustard (yellow) (U.P.) 

Kui (iJ.r.) 

Kttjli (M. P.) 

Lotni (East Punjab) 
Mabua (Bihar) 


Oil. 

CaHtor 

Groundnut 

Linseed (West Bengal) 

Til 

Coooanut (Cochin) 
Mustard (West Bengal) 
Mustard (Agmark) 
Mahua (West Bengal) 

Oilcake. 

Castor 

Groundnut 

Linseed (West Bengal) 
Til 

Mustard (West Bengal) 
Mahua 

Tobacco. 

Matihari (Medium) 

Jati (Medium) 

ITingli (Medium) 

Biri Tobacco . . 
Chewing (Khaini) 


Lac. 

Stink Lao (C. P. r.lae) • • 

Stick Lac (Maubhum Plum) : „ 


Quintal 


Quintal 


Dates. 

Monthly 
average. J 

Average 

of 

November, 

1961. 

Average 

of 

Decembf 

1060. 

l8t 

8th 

15th 

22nd 

29th 

Rs. nP. 

‘Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Its. nP. / 

Ha. up 








Per Md 

117 • 89 

110 23 

115-21 

117 89 

119*23 

117-88 

120-23 

118*3 

112 53 

112-53 

107*17 

109 85 

109*85 

110-38 

112*19 

104 8 

101*81 

103*15 

99*80 

99 13 

101*14 

101-60 

102*71 

97 3 

102*48 

103*16 

99 13 

100-47 

101*81 

101*50 

102*81 

102*0 

103 82 

107-17 

101*81 

104-40 

104-49 

104-36 

105*24 

100-4 

81*72 

81-72 

82*38 

82*38 

82 38 

82-14 

81*04 

707 

152 00 

152-00 

158-00 

158 00 

100-00 

156*00 

165-60 

169*6 

200*00 

204-00 

109-00 

196- 00 

198 00 

200-60 

208*75 

7fi 1 
Per Mi 

190*00 

190-00 

190 00 

188*00 

190*00 

189-60 

191 00 

17ft fe 

229-00 

235*00 

238 00 

239*00 

239-00 

236 00 

223 26 

89 2 
Per qum 

267 00 

260-00 

250 00 

250-00 

245*00 

254 40 

269*76 

289*t 

252- 00 

252 00 

245 00 

240 00 

248*00 

247-40 

250*26 

244 2 

252 00 

254- 00 

246*00 

242-00 

260*00 

248-80 

252*75 

244 • ? 

Per, M 

212- 00 

212*00 

215 00 

212-00 

213*00 

212*80 

212-75 

72-: 








Per qum 

20-79 

20*79 

20*79 

20-79 

26*45 

20*62 

29*80 

23 1 

34 88 

34*83 

34*83 

34*83 

34*16 

34*60 j 

36*15 

31 < 

44*21 

43*54 

42*87 

42*87 

41*53 

43*00 

43-20 

38 i 

37*51 

34 88 

84*83 

88*18 

37*61 

86 57 

37*51 

43 

39*49 

30-81 

31-48 

31*48 

30*14 

82*68 

35 15 

33 

13-40 

12-06 

12 00 

11*39 

11*39 

11*86 

17 07 

13 








Per 

1 208*00 

268*00 

208-00 

280*00 

280*00 

272* 80 

312*50 

109* 

280*00 

280-00 

280*00 

280 *00 

280-00 

280*00 

295*00 

no- 

450*00 

450-00 

440*00 

440-00 

440*00 

444*00 

460*00 

183 

800*00 

800*00 

800*00 

800-00 

800*00 

800*00 

800*00 

250 

187*00 

214*40 

241*20 

268*00 

208*00 

235*84 

187*60 

60 

d 91-00 

91*00 

94 00 

94*00 

94*00 

92*80 

91*00 

43 

123*00 

123*00 

123*00 

123*00 

123*00 

123*00 

118*00 

68 


N.8.— No eupplyt 






SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


129 


fUlMlt prioM Decaambar 1961 


Commodity . 


Dates. 

Monthly 

Average 
of • 

Average 

of 

unit. 

1st 

8th 

15th 

22nd 

29th 

average. 

N ovoid bor, 
1H61. 

L)oeoml>or, 

i960. 



Rs. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

Its. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Us. nP. 

R». nP. 

Lie con eld. 









Per Md. 

eedlftc (Kuanii No. i ) .. 

Quintal 

174-00 

174-00 

177-00 

177-00 

177-00 

175-80 

174 00 

NS- 00 

(Manbhum Bnyaaki) 

19 

147 00 

147-00 

147-00 

147-00 

147 00 

147-00 

145- 00 

73-40 

N Shellac - • 

- 

151-00 

151 00 

158 00 

158-00 

158-00 

155-20 

152-75 

70- 10 

Fibre. 





• 





ute (tfeliar) (Jangli) 

Quintal 

07-00 

08-32 

07 00 

08 • 32 

72-34 

08 59 

72 • 07 

47-70 

at« (Indian Diet.) (Garsat) 
Murshidabad. 

»» 

0*8-32 

00 00 

08*32 

08-32 

72-34 

09 -4 I 

74-08 

48-78 

U U, (Indian Northern) 

(Gar sat; Jalpaiguri. 


70-04 

81 72 

70-04 

79-01 

80*38 

79 • 84 

83-00 

19-70 

ul © (Indian Middle) 

(JJwti lOt). 

it 

75-02 

70-30 

75-02 

75-02 

70-30 

7/* • 5o 

79 -02 

50-80 

ute (Assam Middle) 

a 

^7 08 

88- 42 

87*08 

87-08 

87 -08 

87 34 

90 76 

62-50 

ute (Indian Middle) 

(Northern). 

a 

85 -74 

87-08 

85-71 

87 -ON 

87-08 

85-90 

90*43 

60*20 

ut© (Deshi) (Garsat) 

Ittd'argauaB. 

a 

83 -01 

85 ■ 74 

83-04 

87-72 

85 ■ 74 

85 01 

87-10 

50-80 

iloflta (Garsat) (Deshi) 

M 

72-34 

75-02 

72*34 

72-81 

71 00 

72-05 

77-70 

47-80 

iimli 

II 

00* 00 

7 1 • 00 

00-00 

7100 

09 - 00 

79- 19 

73-34 

47-95 

iunn-homp (loose) (Benares) 

Md. 

30 ■ 00 

30-00 

30-00 

39-00 

39-00 

39 00 

39-50 

36-20 

innn-hemp (loose) (green) 


40 00 

40-00 

40 • 00 

40-00 

40 * 00 

40-00 

40-50 

43-20 

Vgmark Suun-henjp (baled) 
(Benares No. 1). 

400 lbs. 

100-00 

100 -on 

100-00 

100 00 

100 00 

100-00 

100-00 

222 -00 

\gmork Sunn -hemp (baled) 
(green undressed). 

- 

220-oi» 

220 oo 

220*00 

220-00 

220-00 

220-00 

220 -00 

270-90 

Vgmark Sunn- hemp (baled) 
(green tow) 

a 

215-00 

21 5 -00 

215 00 

21500 

215-00 

215 00 

215-00 

225 00 

Animal Fibre. 

ft? Bristle 

Horse tail 

IK*. 

a 

50-00 

18-00 

50-00 

18-00 

50 -00 

18-00 

50-00 

18-00 

50-00 

18-00 

50-00 

18-00 

48*50 

16-50 

Per lb. 

45-00 
Per Hear. 
8-40 

Hone-mme 

,, 

14-00 

14-00 

14-00 

14-00 

10-00 

14-40 

14-00 

6 -CM) 

Hide and 8kin. 










^ ^et, salted) 

100 lbs. 

110-00 

110-00 

110-00 

110-00 

11900 

111-80 

114-50 

117-50 

(wet, salted) 

99 

75-00 

75-00 

75 00 

70-00 

76-00 

74-00 

75-00 

96 • 80 

Qoat (Average) 

100 

240-00 

240-00 

240- 00 

240 00 

250-00 

242 00 

250-00 

275-00 

Sheep , 

pieoee. 

n 

200-00 

200-00 

200-00 

200-00 

200-00 

200-00 

200-00 

250-00 


N. 8.— No aappL 











130 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


Wholwai* priMt D«etmb«r IHl 


Commodity* 

Unit. 

Date*. 

1 

Monthly 

Average 

of 

Avere^ 

of 






average. ] 

November. 




6th 

13th 

20th 

27 th 



1961. 

I960,"* 



Re. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. ap 

MtoctUaiwoui. 










Sugar Can© 

Pon. 

600 

0-00 

0-00 

0-00 


0 00 

6-00 

3-6; 



1st 

8th 

15 th 

22nd 

29th 




Sugar (Indian) (Medium) . . 

Quintal 

108-64 

107-87 

107-87 

107-63 

100-80 

107-73 

; 109-21 

112-1; 

Our (Bheli) (0. P.) (Medium) 

M 

63- 60 

63*26 

40-90 

48-24 

40-68 

60-31 

67*96 

17-| 



6th 

13th 

20th 

27th 

— 




Our (Akhi) 

„ 

60 -92 

50-92 

50 92 

53-94 

— 

51*67 

64-00 

19-0 

Dalda (Hydrogenated 

4 Kg. 

13* 13 

13-13 

13-13 

13-13 

— 

13*13 

13-13 

12-6 

Groundnut oil). 

Raeoi (Hydrogenated 

99 

12-24 

12-24 

12-24 

12-24 

— 

12-24 

12-24 

11-fi 

Groundnut oil) 

Fat mixture 

Md. 

86 • 00 

85-00 

85-00 

85-00 

— 

85-00 

85-00 

74 C 

Betel leaf .. • • 

1,000 

6-26 

6-25 

0-26 

6-26 

— 

6*25 

0-10 

0-2 

Firewood (Common — old) 

Cart load 
oflGMds. 

44 -00 

44-00 

44-00 

44-00 

— 

44*00 

49-50 

41-5 

Firewood (Split — old) 

99 

45 00 

45-00 

45-00 

45-00 

— 

46-00 

50-80 

42-: 

Firewood (Split — new) 

99 

40-00 

40-00 

40*00 

40-00 

— 

40-00 

43-80 

NJB. 

Bonemeal 

Metric 

Tonne. 

260-00 

250-00 

250*00 

250*00 

— 

260-00 

260-00 

260-1 

Flattened Rice (Chira) 

Quintal 

91-12 

91-12 

91*12 

91-12 

— 

91*12 

87-87 

b 34 < 

Parched Iiioo (Muri) 

99 

113-00 

113-90 

113*90 

107*20 

— 

111-22 

101-84 

33*1 



6th 

12 th 

19th 

26th 

— 




Chirata .. 

99 

48-60 

48-60 

48-60 

<>2*00 


63*00 

67-50 

10- 


NJ3.-*No supply. 


Wbitkba’ Buildings, Calcutta, 
The 7th February 1U6X . 


N. C. RAY, 

Joint Director of Agricultural Marketing f Benga 







SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


131 


Wholesale Market Prices of Agricultural and Animal Husbandry Products (average quality) in 

districts during the month of November 1961 

24-PARGANAS 


Commodity. 

Naino of Markot. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — • 

Monthly 

Luat 

month's 

Average of 
November, 



4th 

11th 

18th 

25th 

average. 

average. 

I960. 





Its. nP. 

Ha. tiP. 

Ks. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

Kb. tip. 

Kb. iiP. 

ItS. IlPr 

Cereals* 











idv («<»') Patnai 


Motiahat 

Md. 

1400 

14 00 

N.S. 

N.s. 

14-00 

14 -6<> 

14 50 

jdy (medium) Patnai 


Ditto 


13-00 

13 00 

13 00 

13-02 

13-15 

13 87 

14 00 

, 1 , 1 V (medium) Tangra 


Kakdwip 

•» 

14 <>0 

i 1-00 

14-00 

14-25 

14-08 

14- 12 

N.S. 

4 dy (coarse) Sadaraota 


Motiahat 

ii 

12 00 

12 On 

12 On 

12 50 

12-12 

12 71 

12 -7ft 

0( . (fine) Patnai . . 


Ditto 

99 

24 00 

24 -00 

23 -75 

24 00 

23 93 

2 1 05 

24*82 

co (medium) Patnai 


Ditto 

99 

23 00 

23 00 

23 00 

23-25 

23 09 

23 05 

23-37 

co (medium) Tangra 


Kakdwip 

99 

21 00 

23 -76 

23-75 

24-00 

23 87 

23 *59 

23*81 

co (course) Sadamota (Old) 


Motiahat 

ii 

21 00 

21 00 

21-00 

21-00 

21 -(HI 

21 -81 

2112 

(Now) 


Ditto 

ii 

N.S. 

N.S. 

20 02 

21-25 

20-93 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Pulses (whole). 











umir (small) 

•• 

Bongaon 

Md. 

13-75 

i3 r»o 

14-00 

14 00 

13 81 

12 45 

14-31 

rid (small) . . 

• • 

Ditto 

•i 

10-75 

18-50 


15-50 

17-93 

18-57 

18.09 

rain (small) 


Dittc 

99 

13-25 

13 75 

13 -75 

13-75 

13 52 

1317 

14 -86 

Potato and vegetables. 


> 









otuto (Biliar) 

• • 

Basirliat 

Md. 

20 00 

29 00 

N.S. 

27-00 

25-33 

25-75 

13 • 75 

tfeet Pumpkin • • 

... 

Basirhat (P) 

ii 

10 0o 

10-00 

10 00 

10 00 

10-00 

9-25 

8-25 


* 

Doganga (P) 

ii 

10-00 

10 on 

N.S. 

10- n0 

10-00 

9 -00 

7*90 

nnjal (round) .. 

• • 

Baruiput (P) 

n 

15-00 

.5- 00 

15 50 

15 no 

15-12 

15 75 

8-00 



Basirhat (P) 

it 

14 00 

10 00 

11 00 

12 00 

11 75 

15-37 

5-75 



Doganga (P) 

i » 

13 00 

8-00 

9 -no 

9 00 

9-7-> 

15-25 

5-37 

tanial (long) 

• • 

Baruipur (P) 

i» 

15-00 

1500 

15 50 

15 00 

16-12 

19 -50 

8-12 

Oddish . . 

• • 

Baruipur (P) 

Pon. 

2 On 

1-75 

1-50 

1 26 

1 82 

1 75 

2-50 



Doganga (P) 

99 

2-00 

1 50 


1 00 

1 -60 

2-12 

1 -50 

Itoen Plantain . . 

• • 

Baruipur (P) 

ft 

2-50 

2 25 


1 50 

2 • 06 

2-87 

1-66 



Basn hat (P) 


2-00 


1-75 

1 76 

1-88 

3 25 

2-19 

[ 


Doganga (P) 


2-50 

2 00 

2 60 

1 25 

2 08 

3 12 

2 50 

Ireen Papaya 

• • 

Baruipur (P) 

Md. 

9-00 



8 00 

8-87 

8 00 

7 37 

ratal 


Doganga (P) 

ff 

N.S 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

25 00 

N.S. 

M tor gourd (Uchehhe) 


Ditto (r) 

it 

18 00 

25 -on 

■ 

15-00 

20 no 

19 -87 

21-25 

fhinga 


Baruipur (P) 

ff 

12-00 


1 

10-00 

in-75 

11 50 

N.S. 

findi 

i • • 

t 


Ditto (P) 

ff 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S- 

N.S. 1 

N-S. 

18- -k; 

N.S. 

^wumber 

h — 

• • 

Ditto (P) 

100 

6*00 

400 

N.S. 

3-00 

4-33 

10 75 

| 10 00 














SUPPLEMENT TO T11E CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


132 


Wholesale prices 


24-PARGANA8 — contd. 


Novemben^ 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 

month's 

■ — 

Nuv »ffib, 

IMt 




4th 

11th 

18th 

25th 

average. 

average. 






Ks. nP. 

Rs. up. 

Rs. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Ra. np. 

ks. nf 

Fruita (fresh) 












Banana (Kant hat I) • • 

•• 

Baruipur (P) 

•• 

Pon 

200 

1*75 

1-75 

1-76 

1-81 

2-87 

U 

Banana (Champa) .. 

• e 

Ditto (P) 

•• 

»» 

1 -75 

1-60 

1 60 

1 50 

1-66 

1-87 

2! 

Oocoanut (green) . • 

• a 

Am tala (P) 

•• 

100 

13-60 

13 *00 

13 *00 

13 00 

13-12 

14-37 

i- 1 



Deganga (P) 

•• 

•» 

9-60 

U 00 

13-00 

10-00 

11-62 

13*75 

x.s 

Quava - . 

• • 

Baruipur (P) 


Pon 

N.S, 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

7*00 

x* 

Fruits (dry). 












Oocoanut (with shell) Bengal 

•• 

Puijali. (Budge Budge) 

100 

20-00 

26-00 

26 -00 

26-00 

26-00 

30* 50 

2»j-u 

Egg 8. 












Hen egg (ungraded) 

•• 

Canning 

•• 

1 ,000 

138 00 

138*00 

135 -00 

135-00 

136 50 

140-00 

132*3 

Duck egg (ungraded) 

• • 

Ditto 

• • 

99 

138 00 

138-00 

135 -00 

135 -00 

136-50 

140-00 

132 5 

Poultry . 












Fowl (live weight of | sr.) 

•• 

Basirhat (P) 

• • 

Each 

3-60 

3*60 

3 60 

3 50 

3 60 

3 50 

j 

Duck (live weight of It sr.) 

•• 

Ditto (P) 

• • 

99 

3 00 

3 00 

3 00 

3 00 

3*00 

3 12 

23 

Fish. 












Rohu — • • 


Canning 


Md. 

118*00 

115*00 

115*00 

115 00 

115-75 

1 J 8 ■ 75 

■sT S 

Katla . , . . 


Ditto 


99 

118 00 

115-00 

115-00 

115*00 

115-75 

118-75 

\>fl 

Chingri (Bogda) 


Ditto 



110*00 

110-00 

110-00 

110 00 

no oo 

118 *75 

Sj'jl 

Vetki .. 


Ditto 


99 

120*00 

116 *00 

116-00 

llSOO 

117 25 

125-00 

108 7 

Jiol (Magur) 


Ditto 


99 

140*00 

140*00 

135 00 

140*00 

138 75 

135 -00 

127 5 

Jiol (Koi) 


Ditto 


99 

120 00 

120*00 

116*00 

116 00 

118*00 

125*00 

87-5 

Mileh Cottle. 












Cow (milk yield of 1 sr. a day) 

Bookohara (P) 

•• 

Each 

104*50 

106-00 

106-00 

104*00 

105-12 

105 -00 

106 •« 

Cattle Fodder . 











1 

j 

Paddy straw 

•• 

Chandpur (P) 

•• 

Kahan 
of 6 mds. 

20*00 

19 *00 

12 *00 

11*00 

15 60 

22*00 

20 ‘ 



Bongaon (P) 

• • 

Kahan 
of 8 mds. 

38 *00 

39 *00 

38*00 

1 38-50 

: 

38 *37 

36*75 

r,t 









SUrruiMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


133 


hol«sal« prices 


Commodity. 


Fibres . 


fU> {gaTB*.t> 


►stn 


Miscellaneous. 
[ir (rane) • • 

|itt«ned Ric© (Chira) 
jhed Rio© (Muri) 


t 


24-PAR GANA8 — concld. 


November 1961 


N.8.*»No supply. 

The unit “ Md. M means the standard maund of 82 *2/7 lbs. 
Tho unit “Quintal” means 2*08 rads. 


Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month's 

average. 

Average of 
November, 
1960. 

4th 

llth 

18th 

26th 



Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

W 

SB 

& 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nf. 

Bongaon 

Md. 

32 -50 

31 50 

32 50 

28 50 

31 26 

33 50 

49 47 

Deganga 

M 

33 ( 0 

29 50 

32 50 

31-00 

31 50 

32-02 

48 26 

Baduria 

M 

34 00 

33 -75 

34-25 

32 75 

33-0* 

33 53 

60 -25 

Bongaon 

II 

28-00 

28-50 

28-76 

23-50 

27 18 

28-50 

40-87 

Deganga 

II 

28 00 

27-00 

27 00 

26-50 

27 12 

29 00 

43-50 

Baduria 


28-00 

28-00 

28 50 

25-75 

27 50 

29-00 

44 42 

Baduria (P) 

Md. 

24 00 

24-50 

24 50 

24 50 

24 37 

23-75 

16 75 

Am tala 

• » 

32-00 

32-00 

32 00 

32 00 

32 00 

82 00 

31*25 

Ditto 

It 

38-00 

38 -00 

38 00 

38 -00 

38 -00 

38-00 

34-00 











SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


134 


Wholesale prices HOWRAH November \\ 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday # 
dated — 

Monthly 

Lust 

month's 

v Vv " r «i 

^ovun,] 

hibfl 



4th 

11th 

18th 

25tl> 

average. 

a vo ruge. 

Cereals . 



Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Its. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rh. up. 

Hu, j 

Paddy (due) Rupsal 

Bakshihat 

Md. 

1400 

14-00 

13-50 

13-50 

13-75 

13-50 

Md. \j. 

Paddy (medium) Bolam 

Ditto 

»» 

12-76 

12-75 

12-60 

12-50 

12-62 

12 25 

»- 16 

Paddy (coarse) Mota 

Ditto 

ft 

12-26 

12-25 

12-00 

12-00 

1212 

12-00 

M 13 

Rico (fine) Rupsal 

Ramkrishnapur 

Quintal 

66-66 

65-66 

65-66 

65-66 

65-66 

64-32 

) 

Rice (fine) Bhashnmanik 

Ditto 

99 

62-31 

62 31 

62-31 

62-31 

62 31 

6b SI 

•.^31 

J 

Rice (fine) Rupsal 

Bakshihat 

Md. 

23-00 

23-00 

24-00 

24-00 

23 50 

22 50 

>. 34-: 

Rice (medium) Kalma 

Ramkrishnapur 

Quintal 

61-64 

61-64 

61-64 

62*98 

61-72 

62 98 

1 

Rice (medium) Nagra 

Ditto 

»» 

60-97 

00-97 

60-97 

60-97 

60-97 

62-48 

•1 

J 

Rice (medium) Balam 

Bakshihat 

Md. 

21-76 

21-75 

23-00 

23-00 

22-37 

21 25 

23! 

Rice (coarse) Bengal Mota . . 

Ramkrishnapur • , 

Quintal 

66-96 

56-95 

56-95 

66-95 

56-95 

57 -62 

1 

Rice (ooarBe) Orissa Superior. 

Ditto 

»» 

54 94 

54-94 

54-94 

64-94 

54-94 

54-94 

.» |20l 

Rice (coarse) Mota 

Bakshihat , . 

Md. 

20*76 

20-75 

20-50 

20-60 

20-62 

20-00 

2H 

Pulses {Whole). 










Mung (ordinary) . . 

Howrah Pulse Market 

Quintal 

42-87 

42-87 

45 65 

45 55 

44 22 

41 03 

h! 

Masur (big) 

Ditto 

•$ 

44-21 

44-21 

48 23 

48 23 

46 22 

42 03 

13! 

Masur (small) 

Ditto 


34-83 

34-83 

40 19 

40 19 

37 01 

34-16 

41 

Masur (khari, big) 

Ditto 

M 

68-27 

58-27 

66 -98 

66 9 8 

62 -62 

60 -61 

jti | 

Masur (khari, small) 

Ditto 

ft 

62-26 

52-25 

60 -28 

60 28 

56-26 

51-91 


Urid (big) 

Ditto 

ft 

68-94 

1 

58-94 

60-30 

04 -30 

60 -02 

56 93 ^ 


Urid (small) 

Ditto 

ft 

46-65 

45-55 

42-87 

42 -87 

44-21 

42 20 

h 

Gram (big) 

Ditto 

ft 

44-21 

44 21 

45 55 

44 55 

44-63 

42 78 

4 ; 

Gram (small) 

Ditto 

tt 

38 86 

38 -85 

40- 19 

40 19 

39 52 

38 35 

4J 

Mator (big) 

Ditto 

ft 

44 21 

44 -21 

41 53 

41 53 

42 -87 

43 11 

46 

Mator (small) 

Ditto 

»» 

38 85 

38 85 

38-85 

38 85 

38 85 

36 19 

4J 

Arhar (big) 

Ditto 

tl 

42-87 

42-87 

48 23 

48 25 

45 55 

42 8H 


Arhar (small) 

Ditto 

tt 

40 86 

40-86 

45 63 

45 53 

43 19 

39 18 

,3 V 

Kbesari (big) 

Ditto 

M 

35-50 

35-50 

37-51 

37-51 

36 -50 

34 16 

31 

KJbesari (small) 

Ditto 

M 

29*47 

29-47 

28 13 

28 13 

28-80 

28 48 

Hn 

Pulses {split). 










Mung (ordinary) . . 

Howrah Pulse Market 

Quintal 

64-30 

64 -30 

65 -64 

65 -64 

64 97 

63 63 

(6 

Masur (big) 

Ditto 

tt 

63-28 

63 28 

60-28 

60-28 

56-78 

52 73 

51 

Masur (small) 

Ditto 

a 

51-68 

51-58 

58-94 

58-94 

55-26 

50 40 

4§ 

Urid (big) 

Ditto 

tt 

75 00 

75 00 

80-38 

80 38 

77-69 

72 08 

M 

Urid (small) 

Ditto 

rt 

72 00 

72-00 

75 00 

75 00 

73 50 

67 70 

til 

Gram (big) • • • 

Ditto 

tt 

51 58 

51-58 

52-25 

52-25 

51 -91 

51 49 

j 

Gram (small) 

Ditto 

tt 

N.S. 

N.S. 

51-58 

51-58 

51 58 

50 91 


Mator (big) 

Ditto 

tt 

42-20 

42-20 

44-88 

44-88 

43 54 

41-69 [ 

J 














SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


13 $* 


^•tesafe prices HOWRAH— HwnWsr NR 


Commodity. 


Name of Markot. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday , 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 

month's 

Average of 
November, 




4th 

11th 

18th 

26th 

average. 

average. 

1900. 

Pulses (split) —conoid 




Rs. nP. 

Us. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Rs. np. 

Kb. nP. 

nt-or (small) 

•• 

Howrah Pulse Markot 

Quinta] 

N.S. 

N.S. 

44-00 

Eg 

44-00 

40 33 

48 79 

rliur (big) 

•• 

Ditto 

•i 

07 00 

57-00 

00-06 

ESS 

03-03 

60-61 

62 -29 

-lmr (amn.ll) 

•• 

Ditto 

»» 

50 91 

50 91 

53 -58 

ESS 

62-24 

50 57 

50-24 

iesftri (big) 

•• 

Ditto 

99 

39 52 

39 62 

44-21 

44-21 

41 80 

40-02 

37*68 

(small) . . 

•• 

Ditto 

99 

37 51 

37-51 

41 53 

41 63 

39 52 

38-18 

33-49 

Vegetables, 











rinjftl 


Kali Babu’s Bazar . . 

Quintal 

45 00 

40-00 

1 

40-00 

41-25 

47 00 

10 -00 Md. 

reel Pumkin . . 


Ditto 

100 

80 00 

80 00 


80 00 

80 00 

80 00 

68*76 

jhke 


Ditto 

Quinta] 

70 00 

05-00 


65-00 

66-26 

73-76 

N.S, 

irala • • 


Ditto 

99 

70 00 

05-00 

66-00 

65-00 

66-26 

70-00 

N.s, 

uliflour 


Ditto 

100 

N.S. 

N.S. 

25*00 

20*00 

22-50 

N.S. 

25 50 

(bbugn 



Quintal 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

50-00 

50-00 

N.S, 

Md. 29 -25 

Fruits (Dry). 











pounut (dry) . - 


Sankrail Slat ion Mm-ket 

100 

20 00 

29 • 00 

29 00 

30-00 

29-25 

28-50 

20*00 

Fruits (Fresh). 











iiumt JGreon) 

•• 

Domjur (P) 

100 

20 00 

20 00 

20 00 

18-00 

19-60 

20 00 

13*00 

Fish. 









- 


itla 


Howrah Bridge Market 

Quintal 

350-00 

342-00 

342 00 

342-00 

344-00 

350-00 

Md. 121*25 

hu 


Ditto 

99 

350-00 

342-00 

342-00 

342-00 

344-00 

346*25 

„ 126*25 



Ditto 

99 

340-00 

334-00 

334-00 

384-00 

335-50 

340 00 

t9 106-00 

tki 

•• 

Ditto 

99 

350-00 

342-00 

342 00 

342 00 

344-00 

850-00 

N.8. 

ingri (lirtgdtt) .. 


Ditto . , 

99 

350 00 

342-00 

342 00 

342-00 

344- 00 

350-00 

„ 112*00 

M'lk and Milk Products. 

Ditto 

I •* 

300*00 

300*00 

300 -(H) 

300-00 

300-00 

N.S* 

93-76 

^ (low) 


Bandhagliat. Khatal . . 

Md. 

32*00 

32-00 

32-00 

32-00 

32-00 

32-00 

32*00 

^ (BuRkln) 

•• 

Ditto 

*# 

40-00 

40-00 

40 00 

40-00 

40 00 

40 00 

40*00 

Milch Lottie. 











jj* (Milk yield of 1 Beer 

fay) 

[>er 

Uluberia 

Each 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S, 

100-00 

t battle Fodder . 











f% (Straw) . . 

•• 

Sibpur Bichali Ghat . . 

Kahan 
of 10 
mds. 

50-00 

50 00 

50 -00 

50-00 

i 

50 00 

50-00 

63-76 












SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


Wholesale prices 


HOWRAH — concld. 


November 194 



Name of Market. 


Collection weeks ended Saturday, 

dated— Last 

Unifc Monthly month’s 

" ftvera g e average. 

4th 11th 18th 25th 



Oil Seeds. 
Mustard (Yellow) 

Mustard (Koali) . - 
Mustard (Rai) . . 
Groundnut ( U ndeeorticated ) 
Groundnut (Decortic ated) 
linseed 


Til (White) 
Til (Black) 


Mustard Oil 


Howrah rule© Market 

















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


137 


HOOGHLY November 1961 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday* 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 
month h 
average. 

Average of 
November, 
1900. 

4th 

llih 

18th 

26ih 






Kh. nP. 

Kh. iiP. 

Kh. nP. 

Kh. nP. 

Kh. up. 

Kh. nl\ 

K«. nP. 

Cereals. 












, (Kino) Dudkalam 


Cluunpadanga 


Mil. 

li> 50 

12 60 

13 -75 

13 75 

13-12 

12-87 

14-75 

y (Fin' 1 ) Sitasal 


Bali Dewanganj 


M 

14-25 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

11-25 

16-25 

N.S. 



Kali] mre 


,, 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

15 00 

16 09 

y (MoJiurn) NagraHal 


Chanipadanga 



12 00 

12*00 

13-25 

13-25 

12 02 

12-44 

14 50 

. (Medium) Jhingaaal 


Bali Dewanganj 



18-37 

13 37 

13 12 

13 12 

13 25 

12-09 

12-97 



Kalipore 


i 9 

13-12 

13 00 

13-00 

13 00 

13 03 

12-37 

13 00 

y (Medium) Dudkalam 


Bali Dewanganj 


$ 9 

13 37 

13 37 

13-26 

13 25 

13 31 

12 02 

13 0» 



Kalipore 


M 

13 25 

13-00 

13 25 

13 26 

13 19 

12-02 

13 12 

y (Coarso) Gar d lian 


Chanipadanga 


»♦ 

11-75 

11-60 

12-87 

12-87 

12 26 

12-00 

14-00 

j (Coarse) Garh 


Bali Dewanganj 


99 

12-02 

12-02 

12 • r>o 

12 50 

12 60 

12-25 

12 34 



Kalipore 


99 

12 50 

12 -75 

12 50 

12 26 

12 -50 

12-00 

12-22 

[Fine) Dudkalam 


Chanipadanga 


99 

23 00 

23 00 

24 -(H) 

24 •00 

23-60 

23 12 

24-50 

(Fine) Sitasal 


Bali Dewanganj 


»* 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

24-12 

N.S. 



Kalipore 


9 9 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

23-26 

24-60 

(Medium) Nagrasal 


Chumpudungn 


»• 

22 00 

22 00 

23 00 

23 00 

22 50 

22-50 

23 37 

(Medium) Jhingasul 


Bali Dewanganj 


99 

23 00 

23-25 

22 75 

22-76 

22-94 

21-02 

23-02 



Kaliporo 


99 

22 -50 

23 00 

22 50 

22-50 

22 02 

21-02 

22 81 

(Modium) Dudkalam 


Bali Dowanganj 


99 

23 00 

23-25 

22-75 

22 75 

22 94 

22-00 

25 00 



Kalipore 


99 

22-50 

23-00 

22 50 

22 50 

22-02 

21-75 

22-50 

(Coarso) Qarshol 


Champadanga 


99 

N.S. 

20-00 

22-00 

22 00 

21 33 

21 -00 

21 50 

(Coar«e) Garh 


Bali Dewanganj 


99 

21 • 75 

21-50 

21-25 

21 25 

21 44 

20-87 

21-60 



Kalipore 


99 

21 -50 

21-00 

21-00 

21 00 

21-12 

20-25 

21-19 

Pulses (Whole). 












‘ ( bi 8) 


Sheoraphuli 


Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

20 00 

■ (Small) 

• • 

Ditto 

• • 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S 

18-26 

• (Khari, Big) 


Ditto 

. . 

99 

23 50 

23 60 

23 50 

24-60 

23-75 

22-26 

23 00 

’ (Khari, Small) 


Ditto 

. . 

99 

1 

21 *5o 

21*50 

21 50 

22-50 

21-75 

19 94 

20 60 

' (Khari, Big) 


Mallick Kasera Hat 

99 

23-00 

23-50 

23 50 

23-50 

23-37 

23-08 

23-00 

p (Khari, Small) 


Ditto 


99 

2100 

21-50 

21 50 

21-60 

21-37 

21-08 

21*00 

( H ‘g) 


Sheoraphuli 


99 

18-00 

18-00 

18 00 

18-00 

18 00 

19-25 

19*00 

1 <SmftU ) 

• • 

Ditto 

•• 

99 

10-00 

10-00 

10-00 

10 00 

10 00 

17-00 

18-00 

Pulses (Split) 

1 











r (Big) 


Sheoraphuli 


Md. 

21-50 

21-50 

21-50 

22-50 

21-75 

20 81 

22*00 

r (Small) 

• . 

Ditto 

. . 

99 

20-50 

20-50 

20-50 

22-00 

20-87 

19-25 

20-00 

f / 

•• 

Ditto 

•• 

99 

30*00 

30 00 

30-00 

30-00 

30-00 

27-87 

23-00 












SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


L58 


Wholes*!* prioat HOOGHLY — conid. November \ 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 

month's 

g 




4th 

11th 

18th 

25th 

average. 

average. 





Ra. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

R«. nr. 

Rs. ill*. 

Ks. 

Pulses (Svlit ) — oonoUl. 











Urid (Small) . . * • 

Sheoraphuli 

•• 

Md. 

1*8-00 

28-00 

28 00 

28 00 

28-00 

25 K7 

4 

Gram (Big) 

Ditto 

•• 

M 

20 00 

20 00 

20 00 

20-00 

20 00 

19-08 

21 

Gram (Small) 

Ditto 

• • 

II 

19 00 

19-00 

19 -00 

19 -00 

19 00 

18 75 

1 

Gram (Big) 

Mollick Kaaem Hat 

• t 

22 GO 

22 -50 

22 50 

22-60 

22-50 

22 81 

*>. 

Gram (Small) 

Ditto 

•• 

>> 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

K 

Urid (Big) 

Ditto 

* * 


28-50 

28 50 

28-50 

28-50 

2S-50 

28-0(5 

2! 

Urid (Small) 

Ditto 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

K 

Arhar (Big) 

Sheoraphuli 

•• 

99 

26 00 

25 00 

25 00 

26-00 

25 00 

26 12 


Arhar (Small) 

Ditto 

•* 

M 

22-60 

22-50 

22 60 

22-50 

22 • 60 

22-75 

2 

Kheaari (Big) 

Ditto 

•• 

19 

18 00 

18 00 

18-00 

18 00 

18 00 

15 50 

1' 

Kheaari (Small) 

Ditto 

•• 


1(5-00 

1(5 00 

1(5-00 

16-00 

16 00 

14 50 

1- 

Kheaari (Big) 

Malliek Kasom Hat 

99 

1(5-50 

17 00 

17 60 

17-60 

17-12 

17 50 

l; 

Kheaari (Small) ~ 

Ditto 

• • 

»» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

X 

Spicea. 











Onion (Bombay) 

Sheoraphuli 

•* 

Md. 

13 r>o 

13 00 

13-00 

15 -00 

13 (52 

19 00 

k 

Onion (Patnoi) 

Ditto 

•• 

M 

13-50 

13 50 

13-50 

15-00 

13-87 

19-70 

9 

Onion (Deahi) 

Ditto 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

.V 

Potato and V egelabhs. 






« 





Potato (Nainital) • . 

Sheoraphuli 


Md. 

23 00 

21 50 

23-00 

24-00 

22-87 

28-00 

it: 


Champadanga 


•* 

22-50 

21-00 

23 00 

24 -00 

22 (52 

2719 

11 

Potato (Rangoon) . . 

Sheoraphuli 


•* 

N.S. 

28-00 

25-00 

28-00 

27-00 

N.S. 

if 


Champadanga 



N.S. 

27*60 

24 -62 

27-75 

26-62 

N.S. 

n 

Sweet Potato 

Sheoraphuli 


»t 

10*00 

10*00 

10-00 

10*00 

10 00 

14-50 

t 


Champadanga 



9-00 

9-00 

9-00 

9 00 

9-00 

14*5» 


Brinjal (Round) 

Sheoraphuli 


•• 

12 -00 

12*00 

1(5-00 

18 00 

14 50 

23-25 

f 

Brinjal (Kuli) 

Ditto 


H 

n-oo 

10-00 

12-00 

16 00 

12-25 

1 

21 -33 

i 

Bittergourd (Karela) 

Ditto 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

23 -00 

X 

do (Uohchha) • • 

Ditto 


99 

25 00 

25-00 

30-00 

28 00 

27-00 

29-00 

X 

Vindi 

Ditto 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

21 00 

X 

Patal 

Ditto 


99 

35-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

36-00 

80-50 

X 

Sweet Pumpkin 

Ditto 


100 

60*00 

70*00 

70-00 

N.S. 

66-66 

61 ■ 75 

| 156 

i 











SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


139 


******** HOOWtfcVr-coetf. ttovemtwrfMI 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection week* ended Saturday, 
dated— 

Monthly 

average. 

Laet 

month** 

average. 

Average o t 
November. 
1900. 

4th 

11 th 

18th 

26th 




E 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Rh. nl*. 

Rh. up. 

Rh. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Fruit s. 



■ 







)» 0 A (Champa) 

Sheoraphui) . ., 

<4 F 04 . 


2 00 

2-00 

2 00 

1 94 

1*69 

2*60 

iana (Kathali) • • 

Ditto 

- 


2 SO 

2-60 

2-60 

2-37 

2 19 

3 00 

Milk and Milk Product e. 










i (Cow) 

Seram pore 

Md. 

40 *00 

40 00 

40 -00 

40 00 

40 00 

38 76 

36 00 

It (Buffalo) 

Ditto . . 

II 

*45 00 

46 *00 

46-00 

45 00 

45 00 

43 75 



Chinaurah 

M 

Saoo 

36-00 

30 00 

36-00 

30 00 

36-00 


maa (Skimmed) 

Serampore 

1 

» 

68 -00 

55 *00 

60-00 

58-00 

57-75 

62-60 

59 76 

Egg*. 


1 








ii Kgg (ungraded) 

Pandua Hat 

100 

iaoo 

15-50 

18 25 

16 00 

10 44 

10 00 

13 87 

rk Egg (ungraded) 

Ditto 

" 

16 *00 

16 00 

18 50 

16 00 

10 62 

16*00 

14-06 

Poidtry. 










wl (live weight 1 ar.) 

Pandua Hat 

Each 

3-60 

4 00 

4 00 

4 50 

4 00 

4-12 

2*94 

ok (live weight 2 era.) 

Ditto 

»» 

4 60 

4 60 

4 00 

4 76 

4 44 

8*76 

4-37 

Milch Caitle. 










w (milk yield £ ar. a day) . . 

Mayapore 

Each 

62 00 

66-00 

50*00 

50 *00 

51*75 

54 26 

49*26 

w (milk yield 1 ar. a day) . . 

Ditto 

it 

96 00 

90-00 

90-00 

100 *00 

93 75 

96 00 

90-26 

w (milk yield 1 J era. a day) . . 

Ditto 

tr 

145 00 

140-00 

140-00 

140-00 

141 26 

143 75 

119 -26 

w (milk yiold 1 ** y) 

Pandua Hat 

M 

115* 00 

120-00 

110-00 

105*00 

112*50 

113-75 

71 -26 

Sheep an? t. 










at (live weight 7 «r*.) 

Pandua Hat 

Each 

26 00 

22 00 

23 00 

23 00 

23 25 

23*76 

16-00 

(live weight 10 era.) 

Mayapore 

tt 

22 00 

26-00 

25 00 

23-00 

23 75 

26 -00 

20-00 

Oil . 











Sheoraphuli 

Md. 

90 00 

95 00 

96 -00 

96 00 

94 00 

85*62 

86-76 

Oil cakes. 










ard 

Sheoraphuli 

Md. 

13-60 

13 76 

13 76 

14 00 

13 76 

12 66 

12 69 

>r 

Ditto 

»» 

12-00 

12-50 

12 60 

12 76 

12-44 

10 25 

11 60 

ndnut 

Ditto 

M 

14-60 

14 60 

14 60 

14 76 

14 60 

14 00 

13 87 

ard 

Malliok Kasem Hat 

M 

14-00 

14-60 

14 75 

14-60 

14 44 

13 12 

13*03 

*d 






* 





Ditto 

II 

16-26 

16-60 

16-76 

16 • 50 

16 60 

14 90 

13-44 

^dnut 

Ditto 

II 

14-26 

14-76 

14 76 

14*60 

14*56 

14 25 

14*02 












SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


Wholesale prices 


HOOQHLY — caneld. 


November i« 



Name of Market. Unit, 



Collection week* ended Saturday, 

dated— Monthly Last 

average. month’s 
— “ average. 

4th 11th 18th 20th 


Cattle Fodder . 


Paddy etraw 


Ra. bP. I Re. nP. I Re. »P« 


Malliok Kaaem Hat Kahan 32-00 82-00 82-00 30-00 

of 10 
mds. 


Re. nP. Re. nP. 


31 60 38-60 



Sheoraphuli 

Champadanga 

Sheoraphuli 

Champadanga 


34 00 34-60 36 00 34-00 
33-60 33-60 34 00 32 00 
29-00 30-00 30-00 30-00 
28-60 29-60 29-00 28 00 



Sunhemp 


21-00 24 00 24 00 24 00 23-25 28 B0 









SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


141 


| ir - prices NADIA November 1961 



Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Mi ml hly 
avot age 

I«ant 

month's 

A verage of 
November, 

Commodity . 

4th 

11th 

18th 

25th 


avorugo. 

1960. 




R». nl*. 

Rd. nP. 

Ra. nl*. 

Rh. III*. 

Rh. nl*. 

Rh. Ill* 

Ra. nP. 

Cereals, 










Idy (fine) Am«> 

Plaasey (P) 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

idy (medium) ,, 

Ditto 

• 9 

13 00 

12 25 

12-26 

12-25 

12-37 

12-75 

12-02 

[Idy (coarse) 

Ditto 

99 

12-00 

11-75 

11-76 

1200 

11-87 

11-94 

12-19 

v, (fine) Jbingaaal 

Krislmagar 

» 

24-25 

24-25 

24-60 

24-60 

24-37 

24 25 

20-02 


Ranaghat 

99 

25 00 

24 50 

24-25 

24 26 

24 • 50 

24-37 

24-87 

se (medium; Rudi.alam 

Kriahnagar 

#9 

22-60 

22-50 

22 75 

22 76 

22 01 

22 * 60 

24 37 


Ranaghat 


23 00 

23-00 

23 00 

23 00 

23 00 

23 00 

24 00 

(ctiar^o) Jttli •• 

Kriahnagar 

99 

19-60 

19-50 

19-00 

19 00 

19 26 

19 60 

20 76 


Ranaghat 

99 

21-75 

21-75 

21-76 

21-75 

21-75 

21 26 

21 -10 

Pulses (whole). 










our Deshi (small) 

Plaasey (P) 

Md. 

14 00 

13-50 

15 00 

14 60 

14 25 

12 75 

16 30 


Ranaghat 

99 

14-00 

13-00 

15-00 

14 00 

14-00 

12 31 

14 91 

id „ 

Plaasey (P) 

99 

21 00 

20-00 

19 0% 

10 00 

19 00 

20 12 

17 37 


Ranaghat 


20-50 

20-60 

20-50 

17 00 

19-02 

19-26 

10-25 

am 

Plaasey (P) 

99 

16 00 

14-50 

15 00 

14 00 

14-02 

1406 

16-00 


Ranaghat 

99 

14-50 

13 -75 

14 00 

14 25 

14 12 

14-12 

16 60 

liar „ 

Plassey (P) 

99 

14-00 

13 00 

12 50 

12-00 

12-87 

13-75 

1200 


Santipur 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

rhar „ . . • . 

Plassey (P) 

M 

15 00 

1500 

10-00 

16-60 

15-37 

14-31 

1306 


Ranaghat 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

hewn „ 

Plassey (P) 

99 

10-60 

1000 

10-60 

10-50 

10-37 

9-87 

10-00 


Ranaghat 

99 

N.S. 

N S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Vegetables. 










wen papaya (Local) 

Chakdah(P) 

Md. 

0-00 

500 

5-00 

6-00 

6-25 

6-00 

402 

*eet pumpkin (Local ) 

Haringhata 

100 

N.S. 

N,S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Oilseeds, 










iins<*d 

Plassey (P) 

Md. 

24-00 

24 -50 

20-00 

28-00 

26 02 

25 • 26 

24-00 

IllBlarH 

Ditto 

,, 

28-00 

28-50 

31 00 

31-00 

29 02 

29 75 

27-02 


Ranaghat 

99 

31-00 

32 00 

32 00 

36-00 

32 76 

31 00 

29 60 

Fibre. 










ut ®<iareat) 

Plaasey (P) 

Md. 

31-50 

31-00 

30 - 00 

29-00 

30-37 

34-02 

47 76 


Ranaghat 

■ 

29-00 

30-00 

29-00 

28-00 

29-00 

32-87 

48-00 



Chakdah (P) 

■ 

30-00 

30-50 

30*50 

28-00 

29-02 

33-00 

47-75 










142 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, l%2 


Wholesale prices MURSHtBABAD 'November t| 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 
month ’a 

1»«0 




4th 

Uth 

18th 

26th 

average. 

average. 





Rs. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

K*. ill 

Cereals. 











Paddy (fine) (Amin) 

Lalbagh 


Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

-VS. 


Jiaganj 


M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

XJS, 


Dhulian 



N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

.N.s 

Paddy (medium) 

Lalbagh 



13*50 

14-00 

14-00 

13-50 

13-76 

13 -50 

\A 


Jiaganj 


» I 

13-50 

14-00 

14-00 

14 00 

13-87 

13-50 

lo 31 


Dhulian 


» 9 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

u 

Paddy i coarse) .. 

Lalbagh 


It 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

\A 


Jiaganj 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S, 


Dhulian 



N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Hi co (fine) (Bhaaamanik) . . 

Berhampore 


ft 

23-20 

23-28 

23 -20 

23 26 

23-25 

23-75 

lill .’! 


Lalbagh 


99 

24 *50 

26-00 

26-00 

26-00 

24-87 

26 00 

25 ij 


Kandi 



22-50 

23 -00 

22 -60 

23 00 

22 -76 

22 60 

211 1 

Rico (medium) (Ranikalraa) . • 

Berhampore 



22-25 

22-26 

22 26 

22 25 

22 -25 

22 -W 

21 


Lalbagh * 



23-00 

23-00 

23 00 

23 00 

23-00 

23 00 

21! 2 


Kandi 



22-00 

22-00 

21 50 

21-50 

21-75 

21 12 

2 .’ 

Rice (coarse) (Nona) 

Berhampore 



20 00 

20-00 

20 -00 

20 00 

20-00 

20-50 

JO 


Lalbagh 


99 

20*00 

21-00 

20 00 

20 00 

20-25 

20 25 

i'll \\ 


Kandi 


99 

20-50 

21-00 

20 -50 

20-50 

20-02 

20 12 

21 hj 

Wheat (Tuity) 

Jiaganj 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Wheat (Gangajali) 

Dhulian 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

X.S. 

Barley (Deahi) 

Jiaganj 


f 9 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

vs. 


Dhulian 


1 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Pulses {whole). 











Maaur Deohi (Small) 

Beldanga 


Md. 

11-00 

11-00 

11-00 

1300 

11-50 

11-00 

\s. 


J iagan j 


» 

12-00 

13-00 

13-60 

N.S. 

12-83 

12-00 

NN 


Dhulian 


9 1 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12-10 

N.> 

Grid Deahi (Small) 

Beldanga 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Jiaganj 



N.S. 

N.S, 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 



Dhulian 


99 

19-00 

19*00 

19-00 

N,S. 

19 00 

18- 10 


Gram Deshi (Small) 

Beldanga 


» 

13-60 

13-50 

13-50 

14-50 

13-75 

13-60 

N.S 


Jiaganj 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

X," 


Dhulian 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 1 

N.S. 

N.S. 

X- 

Matar Deshi (Small) 

i 

Beldanga 


99 

10-50 

10-60 

10-60 

12-60 

11-00 

10-50 

X.S 


Jiaganj 


99 

13-00 

13-00 

13-50 

N.S. 

13-10 

13-00 

Ns 


Dhulian 

i 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N S. 

12-31 

X s 












SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, BAY 10. 1962 


143 


|0 lnate prices MUR8HIDABAD — contd. November 1961 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

I 

Monthly 

Laid 

month’s 

Average of 

KovfimhAr 



4th 

11th 

18th 

26th 

average. 

average. 

1990. 




Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Ka. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

IU nP. 

Puleee (whole) — oonold. 

„ Deehi (Small) 

Beldanga 

Md. 

1300 

13-00 

13-60 

14-00 

13-37 

13-26 

N.S. 


Jiaganj 

>. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14-60 

N.S. 


Dhulian 

•• 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13-60 

N.S. 

gari Deehi (Small) 

Beldanga 

• 9 

1000 

1000 

10-00 

11-60 

10-37 

0-76 | 

0-60 


Jiaganj 

• 9 

1100 

12-00 

12-00 

N.S. 

11-66 

0-76 

N.S. 


Dhulian 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

10-19 

N.S. 

Spices, 










m (Deehi) (Small) 

Lalgola 

Md. 

12 00 

1300 

14 00 

14 00 

13 25 

12-00 

15-50 

neno (Deehi) 

Dhulian 

•• 

47-60 

47-60 

47-60 

N.S. 

47-60 

47-87 

1 

40 60 

Egg. 










egg (Ungraded) 

Lalgola 

1.000 

137 00 

140 00 

137 00 

137 00 

187 76 

138 12 

131-76 

Poultry, 










l(live wt. 14 ch.'i 

Lalgola 

Each 

2*37 

2-37 

2 37 

2 37 

2 37 

2-37 

1-76 

Potato and Vegetables. 










ito (Deehi -red) 

Kandi 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

hu (Local) 

, Ditto 

•• 

6-26 

6 00 

6-26 

6-26 

6- 10 

7 12 

N.S. 

Milch Cattle . 

i 









1 (trulk yielding 2 ere. a day ) 

Beldanga 

Each 

17000 

170-00 

176-00 

176 00 

172.60 

170 00 

175 00 

Sheep and Goat . 










>P (live wt. 16 are.) 

Beldanga 

Each 

30-00 

30-00 

32-00 

32 00 

31 00 

30 00 

30-60 

k Owe wt. 12 ere.) 

Ditto 

” 

26-00 

26 00 

28-00 

28- 00 

27-00 

26 76 

26-60 

Oilseeds . 



i 







bt 

Jiaganj 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

■rd 

Ditto 

»* 

i N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Dhulian 

»» 

N.S. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

— — 






) 














144 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


Wlwl — h prices MWtSttlDABAD — conoid. November 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Laet 

month's 



4th 

11th 

18th 

26th 

average. 




Re. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

lie. nP. 

Hid € and skin 









Cow (wet, salted) 

Ijftlgola 

Piece 

16-00 

16 00 

1600 

16-00 

16 00 

1600 

Goat p0 

Ditto 

” 

8.00 

8-00 

8-00 

8-00 

3 00 

3-00 

Fibre. 









ft* (gamat) 

Coeeimbazar 

Md. 

82 00 

32 00 

81-60 

28*00 

30-87 

83-12 


J taganj 

.. 

27-00 

26-00 

26-00 

26-00 

26 76 

29-26 


Lalgola 

•• 

28-00 

26 00 

25-00 

26 00 

26-00 

29-26 

Miscellaneous. 









Gut (cane) 

Kandi 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

N.S. 




















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


145 


€ 


tfhoMftle prices BURDWAN November 1M1 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month’s 

average. 

Average ol 
November, 
1960. 

4th 

11th 

18th 

25th 





Ra. nP. 

Kh. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

Its. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 


Cereals . 










paddy (medium) Kalina 

Burdwan (P) 

Md. 

13-50 

13-75 

14 00 

14 -25 

13-87 

13-56 

14-06 



Nadaughat(P) 

99 

13 -75 

13-75 

13-62 

14 -00 

13-78 

13 25 

13 -42 



Guuhkara (P) 


13-25 

13-50 

13-75 

14 00 

13 -62 

13 33 

13-81 

Bice(tit^) Jhingoaal 

Kalna . . 

• • 

24-00 

24 -00 

24 -26 

24 -00 

24 06 

24-37 

23-87 

i nice (medium) Kalma 

Ditto 

9 9 

23 -50 

23 -25 

23-75 

23 -50 

23 -50 

23 -87 

23 -37 

[ 


Burdwan 

9 * 

23 -25 

23 50 

23 62 

23 -02 

23 -50 

23 37 

23 -66 



Gushkara 

99 

23 -00 

23 -25 

23 37 

23 37 

23-26 

23-04 

23 -31 


Pulses (whole). 










Mung (ordinary) 

Burdwan 

Md. 

25 00 

25 -00 

25-00 

25-00 

25-00 

23 -50 

21-66 

Und (big) 

Aaansol 

•« 

22 -00 

22-00 

2* 00 

22 00 

22-00 

20-75 

22 -60 

Und (*<inaM) 

Kaniganj 

ft 

21 -00 

21 -00 

21 -00 

21 00 

21 00 

18-75 

19*12 

(Irani (big) 

Kalna 

9 9 

21-00 

21-00 

18-50 

18-00 

10 62 

21 50 

21 -83 



Muinuri 

99 

10-25 

23-25 

N.S. 

N.S. 

19-75 

17-44 

19 -12 



Kaniganj , . 

9 9 

10-00 

10-00 

17 -25 

17-26 

16-62 

15 94 

10-2A 

ram (small) 

Kalna 

• 1 

17-00 

10 -75 

16-00 

1600 

16-44 

17-87 

15-83 

Mfttar (big) 

Burdwan 


18 00 

18-00 

18-00 

18-00 

18-00 

16-75 

N.S. 

Matar (amall) 

Kaniganj 

99 

12-00 

12*00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12 00 

12-00 

15 0C 

Arhar (big) 

Burdwan • . 

99 

10-00 

10-00 

16-00 

16-00 

16-00 

16-00 

N.S. 

r 

liOHftri (big) 

Kaniganj 

•• 

11-50 

11 50 

12-00 

12 00 

11 -76 

12-25 

11-33 


Pulses (Split). 










Mung (ordinary) 

Memnri 

Md. 

20 -00 

20 -75 

28-00 

28 -00 

27 19 

27 33 

27- It 

ilaaur (big) 

Ditto 

•• 

20 -00 

22 -02 

23-50 

23 -50 

22 -40 

22 -66 

22* D 



Asanwol 

99 

22 -00 

22 -00 

25 *00 

N.S. 

23 00 

20 -37 

21 *2( 



Kaniganj 

99 

21 -00 

21 -00 

24-00 

24 -00 

22 -50 

19-50 

20-31 

( 

UeuMainidi, 

Burdwan 

9 * 

20 00 

20 -75 

21 -00 

21 -00 

20 -69 

21 00 

21 -2£ 



Assansol 

99 

10-00 

10-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

19-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 



Mmn an 

9 9 

10 -00 

21 -00 

22-00 

22 -00 

21 00 

21 -33 

20 (K 


itid |bi R ) 

Ditto 

99 

27 -50 

28 -00 

29-00 

29 00 

28 -37 

27 -83 

25 0( 


M(tmaU) 

Burdwan 

99 

27-00 

27-00 

27-00 

27-00 

27 00 

27-26 

24* 11 


irftm (h k) 

Memari 

99 

20 -50 

22 50 

22-50 

22 -50 

22-00 

21-66 

22 -0C 



Asansol 

99 

18-25 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

18-25 

N.S. 

N.S. 


f-’ftni (email) 

Burdwan 

$$ 

10 -50 

20 50 

21-00 

21*00 

20 -50 

20-00 

21 -0C 












SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


Wholesale prices 


Commodity. 


BURDWAN — contd. 


Name of Market. 


Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 


4th 11th 18th 25th 


November i» 



Last 

Avera^ 

Monthly 

month’s 

Noveml 

average. 

average. 

I960. 

Rs. uP. 

Its. nP. 

R«. nl 


Pulses (Split) — eOncld. 
Arahar (email) 

Kheshari (big) 

Kheehari (small) . . 

Spices. 

Onion (deshi) 

Chillies (dry, patnai) 


Asansol 

Burdwan 

Kamganj 

Krtlna . . 

Burdwan 

Katwft 

Asansol 

Burdwan 


Md. I8 60 16-50 22-00 22-00 1926 ,6 ' 26 20,1 

22 50 18 00 18-00 18 00 1» 12 17-60 Hi 

13 00 13 00 16 00 16 00 W -50 13-76 N.S 


18 00 18 00 17*60 18 00 
13 00 18 00 17*00 17 00 
04*00 94 00 100 00 102 00 


96-00 96*00 99 *00 99 00 
98-00 98*00 98 00 98*00 


96 *50 106- 


98 00 100* 


Potato and Vegetables. 
Potato (Nainital) . . 

,, (Rangoon) 

Sweat Potato 


Brinjal 


Bittergourd 
Chillies (green) 


Green Plantain 


Asansol 

Burdwan 

Katwa 

Asanso I 

Daluibazar 

Katwa 

Asansol 

Daluibazar 

Asansol 

Katwa 

Asansol 

Daluibazar 

Asansol 

Daluibazar 


Md. 26-00 26 00 

M 30 00 30 00 

N.S. N.S. 

„ 8-00 8*00 

„ N.S. N.S. 

NS. 8-00 

26*00 26*00 

16-00 11*60 

M 19*00 19*00 

„ 41-00 36*60 

„ 24-00 36-00 

„ 38 00 N.S. 

100 6*00 4*60 

5*00 4*00 


24 *50 
30-00 
N.S. 
10-00 
N.S. 
1100 
19 00 
12*60 
24-00 
34 50 
36 -00 
N.S. 

5 00 

4-00 


23 00 
29-00 
N.S. 
12-00 

8- 50 

9- 60 
19 *00 
14 60 
26-00 
34 50 
36-00 
N.S. 

5*00 

3 50 


24 *87 
29 -76 
N.S. 

9 *60 

8- 50 

9- 12 
22 26 
13 37 
21 76 
36*62 
33 00 
38-00 

6*12 

4*12 


25 *00 
N.S. I 
N.S. 

10 00 
N.S. 
12-50 
23 25 
17-33 
19-00 
32- 12 . 
24-25 
34*60 
6-00 
5*00 


Fruits (Fresh). 
Banana (Champa) . . 

Orange (Nagpur) . . 

Coooanut (green) .. 


Asansol 

Burdwan 

Asansol 

Burdwan 

Ditto 

Katwa 



3*12 3*12 3*12 8*12 

300 2-60 2-50 2*50 

16*00 16-00 N.S. N.S 

12-00 12-00 12*50 12-00 

20 00 22-50 22-50 22*50 

22 *60 22 *50 23 • 60 23 -60 


Fruits (Dry). 
Coooanut (dry) 


Burdwan 

\ nam'd 


100 32-00 33-00 33 00 33*00 
„ 35*00 36-00 38*00 35*00 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


147 


ligate prices BURDWAN — contd. November 1961 


Commodity. 

Name of 

Market . 

Unit. 

Col lout ion weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 
tuon til's 

Average of 
November, 





4th 

1 1th 

18th 

25th 

average. 

average. 

I960. 

Kgy*‘ 




Rh. hP. 

K.s. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rh. nl*. 

Rb. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Rh nl\ 

K ^,(£mdod) 

Hurd wan 


100 

16 -50 

15 -50 

15-50 

10 *00 

16 *87 

IS -00 

14-25 

i] k>v r (utigrttHod ) 

Ditto 



10 -50 

15 -60 

15 -60 

10 -00 

15 *87 

14-76 

14-00 


A -IttllHOl 


.. 

17 On 

17 -00 

10 00 

10 -00 

10*50 

17-00 

14 75 


(lushhnrn 



10 oo 

15 -25 

15-00 

15-75 

16-50 

14 50 

13 76 

Kg* (gra.U>d) 

Hurdwiin 


•• 

15 00 

15 00 

15 *25 

15 -00 

15*00 

13 75 

IS -Hi 

Ityg (ungraded) 

Ditto 


99 

15 00 

15*00 

15*25 

16-00 

15 *00 

13 *60 

13 -50 


Aaannol 


99 

18 00 

18 00 

17 00 

17 -00 

1750 

18 00 

16-87 

Poultry. 

< Jurthknrn 



14 -50 

14 *75 

:n 

6 

o 

14 -75 

14 76 

13 25 

13 31 

! (live weight) . . 

Domohani 


100 lbs. 

116-00 

115 -00 

115 -00 

115 -00 

115 00 

115-00 

153 75 

k (live weight) .. 

Ditto 



1 10 00 

110 -00 

110*00 

no -oo 

110 00 

110-00 

US -76 

kun (live weight) 

Ditto 


99 

100-00 

100 -00 

100-00 

100-00 

100 00 

160 -00 

163 -75 

Milk ami Milk Products. 






- 





(Cmv) 

Kulnn 


Md. 

28 -00 

35 -00 

28 -00 

30 -Oft 

30 -25 

28-50 

28 00 


Katwu 


»» 

25 -00 

22 -50 

22 *50 

22 -50 

23 -12 

21 -25 

22-00 


Hindu an 


»* 

30 -00 

30 -00 

30 00 

30 00 

30 00 

30 -00 

30 -00 

(Buffalo) 

Kalna 


• i 

38 *00 

45 -00 

38 *00 

40 -00 

40 -25 

38 -00 

35 00 


Asansol 


>- 

35 *00 

35 -00 

35 -00 

35 -00 

35 -00 

35 -00 

35 00 


Hun 1 wan 


t * 

35 -00 

35-00 

36-00 

35 00 

35-00 

35-00 

34 26 

lana (unskimmed) 

Ditto 



GO -00 

70 -00 

50 -00 

50 -00 

57 *50 

69 -00 

70 00 

Fish. 

Katwu 


9 9 

115-00 

110-00 

j 

110 *00 

106 -00 

110 00 

116-25 

76 00 

bla .. 

Kalna 


Md. 

125 -00 

140-00 

120 -00 

126 -00 

127 -50 

123-75 

106-26 


Katwa 


99 

05 • 00 

1)5-00 

100 00 

115-00 

98-75 

119-37 

N.S. 


linrdwan 


99 

110 00 

110-00 

112-00 

115 00 

111 75 

108 -26 

96 00 

hu . . 

Kalna 


99 

130 00 

150 *00 

130 -00 

135*00 

130*25 

130 -00 

115 -00 


Katwa 


99 

120-00 

125-00 

120-00 

225*00 

122 50 

140-00 

N.S. 


Hurdwan 


9 9 

115-00 

115-00 

118 -00 

119 -00 

110 50 

112 50 

98-00 

Sheep and Ooat . 











|*Mhve weight 10 ere.) 

Domohani 


Eh (di 

23 -00 

23-00 

23 *00 

23 00 

23 00 

23-00 

23 -87 


Pachundi 


M 

22 -50 

22 *60 

21 50 

24 -00 

22 *02 

24 26 

20 -60 

pp (live weight 12 era.) 

Domohani 


.. 

22 -00 

22 -00 

22 -00 

22 -00 

22 00 

22 -00 

22 00 


Paohundi 


99 

22-60 

22*50 

21-50 

24-00 

22-02 

24-00 

N.S. 

Milch Cattle. 











w (milk yielding 1 sr. daily) . . 

Lalgunj 


Each 

110-00 

110-00 

110-00 

1 10 -oo 

110-00 

110-00 

112 -00 

(milk yielding 3 ere. daily) 

Paohundi 


tt 

90-00 

100 -00 

110-00 

110-00 

102 50 

100-62 

68-76 

Lalganj 


9t 

260 -00 

250-00 

260 -00 

260 -00 

260 00 

260 -00 

260 00 



Pachundi 


99 

300-00 

225-00 

276*00 

200*00 

260*00 

225-00 

N.S. 












148 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE OAL0FTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


Wholesale prices BURDWAN — concld. November « 


Commodity* 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 

month's 

* ver H»V 

Novemt*, 

1900. 




4 th 

llth 

18th 

25th 

average. 

average. 





Ra. nP. 

Rh. iip. 

Ra. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. np 

Cattle fodder. 











Faddy straw 

Kalua 


Kahan 

of 

36 00 

20 00 

32*00 

29 *00 

33 -50 

80-75 

44 ■«, 


Daluibazar 

. . 

16 Mds. 

29 00 

28 00 

29-00 

28 -00 

28 *50 

28-00 

62 -00 


Gushkara 

•• 


30 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

20-00 

28 00 

29 -00 

61 25 

Oil. 











Mustard 

Burdwan 


Md. 

91 -60 

92 -00 

90 00 

08 00 

94-37 

90 *00 

83.75 


Memari 


*» 

91*00 

92 *00 

97-76 

97 -00 

64 -44 

8M -00 

84 25 


Raniganj 


n 

92 00 

92 -00 

98 00 

98 *00 

95 *00 

90-60 

88 -60 

Oilcake . 











Mustard 

Burdwau 


Md. 

14-00 

13 -50 

13-00 

13 -00 

13 37 

12-37 

12 -44 


Memari 


n 

13 00 

13 -25 

13*25 

13 *25 

13 31 

12 08 

12 28 


Raniganj 


#t 

11 -60 

11 60 

12 -60 

12*60 

11 *76 

11 60 

10 -60 

Tobacco. 











Motihari 

Burdwan 


Md. 

180-00 

185 -00 

185 00 

180 *00 

184 00 

179 *60 

177 -5u 


Katwa 


,, 

210 00 

210-00 

175 -00 

160 00 

180-26 

212 -60 

170 -00 


Raniganj 



160 00 

150-00 

107*60 

107 -50 

168 -75 

160 -00 

146 00 

Bidi - 

Burdwan 



ICO -00 

106 *00 

170 -00 

170 00 

100 *26 

165 00 

- 102 50 


Asansol 



200 -00 

200 -00 

180 00 

180 -00 

190-00 

200 00 

200 -Go 

Fibre . 











Jut# I* M f Dt. 

Kalua 


Md. 

32 -00 

32 00 

30*60 

29-26 

30 -94 

32-76 

47-62 


Katwa 


9P 

30-00 

30-00 

30 00 

27 *00 

29-25 

33 -76 

48-37 


Memari 

•• 

" 

30-00 

29-50 

29-00 

28*00 

29-12 

32-00 

47 87 

Miscellaneous. 











Gur (Bbeli) 

Kalua 


Md. 

20 00 

26 -00 

28 -00 

29 -00 

27 -00 

23 -76 

26 -2a 


Raniganj 


,, 

19 00 

19 *00 

22 00 

22 *60 

20-62 

19 -00 

19 -25 


Burdwau 


Jf 

20-50 

20-50 

21*00 

21*00 

20-76 

20 94 

22-60 

Gur(oane) 

Kalna . . 


ff 

25-00 

2G 00 

20 -00 

27-00 

26 -00 

24*12 

26 


Katwa 


t* 

18-00 

18-00 

16 -00 

15-00 

16-60 

19 -26 

21 -37 

- 

Burdwan 


ft 

20-00 

20-00 

23*00 

22-00 

21 -26 

23 00 

23 *60 

Firewood (Common) 

Kalna 


ft 

1 -75 

212 

2-12 

2-50 

2-12 

2-12 

2-00 


Burdwan 


ft 

1-50 

1 -60 

1 *60 

1-60 

1 -60 

1 -66 

2# : 

Flattened rice j 

Ditto 


ft 

28 -00 

30-00 

26 -00 

26 -00 

27-60 

28 00 

32-OOi 

- 

Raniganj 


ft 

24 -60 

24 -60 

20 -00 

25 -60 

! 

26-12 

24-60 

27 W 

Parohad Bioa . • 

Burdwan 

•• 

• t 

30-00 

31 *00 

28 -00 

30-00 

29 -75 

30 -00 

36-00 











SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


lnH i ito pricas 



November 1961 



Cereals. 

My (toe) (R*m*U) 
jdy (medium) (Raima) 

My (ooarae) (Sindurmukhi) 
loe (toe) (Raiueal) 
ioe (medium) (Kalina) 
loe (ooaiee) (Sindurmukhi) 

Pubes (whole). 
glo-kalai 

ram •• 

j Pulses (split). 

|uag (ordinary) 

I 

|uur (big) 
km (big) 

Lr (big) 

(big) 

Spices . 

bon (Deahi, round) 

Potato and vegetables. 
ito (dcshi, round) 

(deshi) . . 


su| to (deshi) 


Kamo of Market. I Unit. 


Poultry. 

lar.) 

• wt. 1 ar.) 


Sainthia 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Ditto 


Sainthia 

Ditto 


Sainthia 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Ditto 


Rampurhat 


Rampurhat 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Ditto 


Chatra 

Ditto 


Chatra 

Ditto 


Collection weeks ended Saturday, 

dated - 

Monthly 

Laat 

month's 

Avoruge of 
November. 

4th 

11th 

18th 

26th 

average. 

average. 

i960. 

He. nP. 

Re. uP. 

R*. nP. 

Ha. nP. 

Re. nP. 

He. nP. 

Kh. nP, 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13-50 

13-37 

13-25 

13-25 

13 34 

13-69 

12-60 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

22 • 60 

22-50 

22-37 

22-37 

22-44 

22-68 

20-93 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

c 

© 

21-26 

21 26 

21-12 

21-16 

21-00 

20 00 

16-26 

17-00 

17 00 

17-00 

16-81 

10-00 

10-76 

29 00 

26-60 

20 -C0 

20 CO 

27-12 

28-94 

27-50 

21-60 

21-60 

21-60 

21-60 

21-60 

21-26 

21-00 

23-00 

21-00 

21 00 

21-12 

21- 53 

23-25 

23-37 

26 00 

22-60 

22 ■ 62 

28-00 

24 54 

25 34 

24-60 

14-12 

16-60 

16-02 

16-50 

16-96 

14 12 

13-7& 

14-00 

14-60 

13-00 

13-00 

13 62 

11-87 

11-00 

23-00 

23-00 

24-00 

24-00 

23-60 

22-00 

16-25 

800 

900 

12-00 

14-00 

10-75 

1375 

9-75 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

11-50 

11 00 

13-60 

13-60 

12-37 

12-00 

12-47 , 

12-00 

11-75 

13-75 

13 75 

12-81 

12-60 

12*47 

2-50 

2-62 

2-50 

2* 50 

2 * 53 

2-76 

2-26 

1-75 

1-76 

1-75 

1-75 

1-76 

1.87 

2-00 















150 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


■ — 

Wholesale prices BIRBHIIM — concld. November 194 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month*s 

Aver*gg 

Novei 

1980. ' 




4th 

11th 

18th 

25th 

average. 

Milch cattle. 



Rs. nP. 

Rs. ilP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

1 

1 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

K«. 

Cow yielding 2 era. of milk a day 

Sainthia 

Kach 

18500 

100 00 

19000 


191 25 

182-50 

180-00 

Cattle fodder. 










Poddy straw 

Sainthia 

Kalian 

of 

18 mds. 

45 00 

30 00 

30-00 

28-00 

83-25 

42-00 

61-50 1 

- 

Oil and oil cake. 










Muatard oil 

Sainthia 

Md. 

85-00 

92-00 

92-00 

92-00 

90-25 

84-25 

86-50 

Mustard oil coke 

Ditto 

M 

11^5 

13-00 

12-75 

12-02 

12-54 

12-00 

12-25 

Miscellaneous. 










Our (Veily) 

Sainthia 

Md. 

1000 

22-00 

21*00 

21-00 

20 00 

10-60 

1 8 - 31 ) 
















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


151 


ottf «u prices BANKURA November fttl 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month's 

average. 

Average of 
November, 
i960. 

4th 

11th 

18tl> 

25th 





Ks. nP. 

IB. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP 

R®. nP. 

Cereal*. 











Ay Am an Sitaaal (fin®) 

Bankura (P) 


Md. 

14-00 

14-50 

14-25 

14-25 

14-25 

14-12 

18-62 


Vishnupur (P) 


99 

14-50 

14-50 

14-50 

14-50 

14 -60 

14-00 

14-00 


Kotulpur (P) 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

dv Arooii Kalamkoti 

Bankura (P) 


99 

13-00 

13-50 

13-25 

13 25 

13-25 

13-12 

12-25 

ofldium) 

dy Arrian Jhinga&al (medium) 

Vishnupur (P) 


99 

12-50 

12-50 

13-00 

12-50 

12-62 

12-00 

12-87 


Kotulpur (P) 


99 

12-37 

12-60 

12-75 

12-60 

12-63 

12-00 

N.S. 

tdy Aman Nona (ooaree) 

Bankura (P) 


99 

12-00 

12-50 

12-25 

12-25 

12-25 

12*26 

11-81 


Vishnupur (P) 


99 

1 2 ■ 00 

12-25 

12-75 

12-25 

12-31 

N.S. 

12-37 


Kotulpur (P) 


99 

12-00 

N.S 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12-00 

N.S. 

to 

© 

Vi 

dy A us Kolas (New) (eoarHe) 

Bankura (P) 


99 

10-00 

N.S. 

10 00 

10 00 

10-00 

10-60 

10-31 


Bishnupur (P) 


M 

10-00 

10-25 

10-25 

N.S. 

10-10 

0-68 

9-76 


Kotulpur ( P) 


99 

0-75 

10-00 

10-00 

N.S. 

9-81 

0-33 

0-76 

0 Aman Sitasal (fine) 

Bankura (P) 


99 

23-50 

24-50 

24-25 

24 25 

24-12 

24-12 

24-37 


Vishnupur (P) 


| 

23-00 

23-50 

23-50 

23 50 

23-37 

23-00 

22-76 


Kotulpur (P) 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

o Amiin. Kalamkati (medium) 

Bankura (P) 


99 

21-75 

22-00 

22-25 

22-25 

22-06 

22-00 

22-12 

e Aman Jhingasal (medium) 

Vishnupur (P) 


99 

21-00 

21-00 

21-00 

21-00 

21 00 

21-12 

21-25 


Kotulpur (P) 


99 

20-75 

20-50 

20-50 

21 00 

20-69 

20-69 

22-60 

* Aman Nona (ooaree) 

Bankura (P) 


99 

20-50 

21-50 

21-25 

21-25 

21*12 

21-12 

20-25 


Vishnupur (P) 



20 00 

20-00 

| 20 00 

20 50 

20-50 

20-00 

20-62 


Kotulpur (P) 


99 

20-00 

20-00 

20-00 

20 00 

20-00 

20 00 

20*25 

* Auh Kelas (coarse) 

Bankura ( P) 


99 

10-00 

N.S. 

19-00 

18-75 

18-91 

19-00 

18-37 


Bishnupur ( P) 


99 

18-25 

18-50 

18-50 

N.S. 

18-41 

17-87 

17-60 


Kotulpur (P) 


9 9 

18-00 

18-00 

18-00 

• • 

18-00 

17-60 

« 737 

Pul*e* {whole). 











itu ‘*Khari (big) 

Bankura 

.. 

Md. 

21-00 

21 00 

21-60 

23-00 

21-62 

19*87 

20-60 


Vishnupur 


99 

22-25 

21 75 

22 00 

23-00 

22-25 

20-44 

19-75 

“w-Khari (small) 

Bankura 


99 

20-00 

20-25 

20-00 

2100 

20 31 

19-12 

18-25 


Vishnupur 

•• 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

20-50 

2100 

20-75 

19-60 

N.S. 

IbUck) (big) .. 

Bankura 

. . 

99 

22-00 

21-50 

22-00 

22 00 

22-87 

20-25 

18-50 


Vishnupur 


99 

22-50 

22-76 

21-75 

23 00 

22-50 

21-66 

19-81 

w C>l«k) (mail) 

Bankura 

. . 

99 

16-00 

15 60 

20 00 

19-00 

17-62 

N.S. 

18-00 

, 

Vishnupur 

•• 

M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

1 

20 00 

21-00 

20-50 

21-50 

N.S. 







162 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


WMmNi price* BANKURA — contd. November | 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 

month’s 

Aven 

N r ov^i 


4th 

11th 

18th 

26th 

average. 

average. 

I9( 




Rs. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Rt 

Pulses (split). 










Arahar (Big) 

Bankura 

Md. 


20-00 

21*00 

21 50 

20-62 

20 17 

ft 


Vishnupur 

»» 

21-50 

21*76 


20*76 

21-12 

20- 19 

2. 

Arahar (Small) 

Bankura 

tt 


19*00 



19-50 

21*00 

11 


Vishnupur 

tt 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

\j 

Spices, 










Onion (Madras) • . 

Bankura 

Md. 


18- 00 

EEa 


16 12 

16*00 

1 


Vishnupur 

tr 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N S. 

1 


Kotulpur 

tt 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

1 

Onion (Bombay) 

Bankura 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


18*00 

N.S. 

1 


Vishnupur 

>> 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

\ 


Kotulpur 

tt 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

) 

Onion (Patnai) 

Hankura 

H 

17*00 

16*00 

16*26 

N.S. 

16-26 

15 26 

> 


Vishnupur 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S 



Kotulpur 

tt 

N.S 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

: 

Onion (Rangoon) small 

Bankura 

t* 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 



Vishnu pr 

•» 

18-00 

18*00 

18-00 

18-00 

18-00 

10-12 

: 


Kotulpur 

*» 

18-25 

18*60 

18-60 

18-60 

18-44 

10-62 

; 

Chillies (dry) (Jarda) 

Bankura 

t » 

103 00 

106-00 

106-00 

110*00 

105-75 

90-00 

* 


Vishnupur 

tt 

03 00 

N.S. 


N.S. 

82*60 

89-76 


Chillies (dry) (Bihar) 

Bankura 


N.S. 

N.S. 

NB. 

100 '00 

100-00 

98 76 

[ 


Vishnupur 

tt 

84 00 

86-00 


100-00 

89-76 

84 76 

l 

Milk and milk products . 










Ghee (buffalo) 

Vishnupur (P) 

Md. 




236-00 

236 00 

231 25 

1!! 

Chbana (skimmed) 

Ditto 

tt 

27-60 



30 00 

29-37 

29-26 

: 

Obhaaia (unskimmed) 

Ditto 

ft 

76-00 

76-00 

76 00 


75 00 

76 26 


Oilseeds » Oil & Oil cake. 










Mustard Oilseed 

Bankura 

Md. 

36-00 

37 00 


86 00 

36-76 

82-76 



Vishnupur 

tt 

34-60 

34 00 

I 36 60 


85 60 

34 19 


Mustard oil 

Bankura 

It 

87-00 

89-00 



89-76 

84 -26 



Vishnupur 

It 

mm 

87-00 



89-60 

83 37 


Mustard oil oako 

Bankura 

1 1 

12-37 

12 50 

12 60 

12 60 

12*47 

11 69 



Vishnupur 

tt 

EB 

12-26 

12 60 

12-62 

12*34 

11 64 


f obaeco. 










IWdi tobaooo (Nepani) 

Bankura 

Md. 


200 -00 



200 00 

200-00 

2 


Vishnupur 

H 


m 


210 -00 

210*00 

210 00 

2 




















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


153 


yyliotasftlt prion BANK UR A— concld. November 1961 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Lost 

month's 

Average of 

November, 



4th 

11th 

18 th 

26th 

average. 

average. 

1960. 




Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. uP. 

Re. nP. 

Lae. 










Stick L«ol(Baishk*hi) 

Khatra (P) 

Md. 

84 00 

84-00 

■ 

83-00 

32-00 

83-25 

85-00 

42-50 

Sheer and goat. 










Goat (He) (8 seers of meat wt.) 

Cattle fodder. 

Kotulpnr 

Each 

20-00 

20 -00 

20 00 

20 60 

20-12 

20-37 

10-25 

Poddy straw ^ew) 

Hide and skin. 

Jhantipahari 

Per 

Kahan 

of 14 
Mds. 

N.S. 

20 00 

N.S. 

24-00 

23-00 

82 00 

, 22-33 

Buffalo Hide# 

i 

Khatra (P) 

Per 

Piece 

21 00 

28 00 

23 50 

22 60 

22-50 

20 60 

16-87 

Cow ,» 

# Ditto 

*» 

9 00 

9 00 

9-00 

8 50 

8-87 

8-60 

8 12 

lout skin 

Ditto 

M 

212 

2 -75 

2 76 

3 00 

2-66 

2 63 

3-00 

;heep skin 

Ditto 

- 

1-26 

1 50 

160 

1 76 

1-60 

1 22 

1-44 

Miscellaneous. 










Velly gur 

Bankura 

Md. 

21-00 

21-50 

22 00 

22 (K) 

21-62 

20 37 

21-50 


Vishnuptir 

M 

10-00 

N.8. 

20 00 

20 00 

18 67 

16 00 

21 76 

L'ftnegur 

Bankura 

** 

15 50 

16 00 

17 00 

15 50 

10-00 

15 37 

13 76 


Vishnupur 


13 00 

13-00 

15-00 

13-00 

13-50 

12-87 

13-60 

Posto . 

Bankura 

.» 

40 00 

42 00 

41-00 

42 00 

41 25 

40 50 

39 00 


Vinhnupur 

» 

41-00 

41-25 

42-26 

43 60 

42-00 

40-89 

41 12 

Firewood . 










Common Shal 

Vishnupur 

Md. 

2-26 

2 26 

2-25 

2 26 

2 25 

2-26 

2- 12 


Peardoba 

PP 

212 

2-12 

2-12 

2-12 

2-12 

2-12 

212 



1 






















154 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


Wholesale prices MIDNAPORE November I9ty 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 

month’s 

Average q 
Noveiabo 
I960. 



i 

1 

llth 

18th 

25th 

average. 

average. 





lis. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Ra. ap 

Cereal s. 











Paddy (Medium) Rupsal 

Mhinapore 


Md. 

13-50 

13-50 

13-50 

13 60 

13-50 

13 60 

12-00 

Paddy (Medium) Balam 

G hatal 


•* 

1300 

12-75 

13-00 

13-26 

13 00 

12-81 

13*56 

Paddy (Medium) (Patnai) 

Kalin agar (P) 


” 

12-50 

13 00 

13-00 

13-00 

12-27 

12-60 

13-37 

Paddy (Coarse) Garh 

Midnapore 



12-50 

12-50 

12-50 

12-00 

12-43 

12-25 

11-75 


G hatal 



12-00 

12*25 

12-50 

12-76 

12-37 

12-50 

13 -09 


Kalinagur (1*) 


99 

11 50 

11-75 

11 75 

11 50 

11-62 

1162 

12 37 

Rice (Fine) Nitasal 

Midnapore 


99 

20-00 

20-00 

26 00 

26 00 

26 <H) 

26- 12 

25-75 


Kharagpur 


99 

25 50 

25-50 

26 00 

26*50 

25 02 

25-81 

23 -02 

Rice (Medium) Rupsal 

Midnapore 


99 

24 00 

24 00 

24 00 

24 00 

24 00 

21 12 

23 ■ 75 

Rice (Medium) (Balam) 

Glial al 


.. 

21-00 

21-25 

21-00 

21-00 

21-06 

21-06 

22-12 

Rice (Medium) (Rupsal) 

K liar agpur 



23 00 

23 -00 

23 00 

23 00 

23 00 

22 5b 

22-2.1 

Rice (Coarse) Garh 

Midnapore 


,, 

21 50 

22-00 

21 60 

21-50 

21 • 62 

21-62 

20-75 


( ? hatal 


H 

20 00 

20-00 

20-00 

20 00 

20 00 

19 81 

21-75 


Kharagpur 


•* 

20 50 

20-25 

20-50 

20-00 

20 31 

20 75 

i«-h7 

Pulse s (Whole)* 










. 

Mutir (Ordinary) 

Mamkpara 


Mil. 

N.S. 

23 50 

23 26 

24-00 

23 58 

23-50 

22 00 

Und (Small) 

Ditto 


99 

19 50 

19-50 

19 50 

20-00 

19-62 

19-12 

17-50 

Gram (Small) 

Ditto 


ft 

10-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

16-00 

16*75 

N.S. 

Gram ( Ihg Punjab) 

Kharagpur 


ft 

10- 50 

10-50 

17 00 

i 17-00 

16-76 

15-31 

]* 1 1 

Khesari 

Dudkumra 


M 

11-25 

10-50 

N.S* 

N.S. 

10-87 

10-50 

N.S. 

Pulses (Split). 











Mung (Ordinal y; 

Midnapore 


Md. 

27 00 

27 -50 

27 -00 

27 00 

27-12 

27-12 

27 -00 


Kharagpur 


M 

20-00 

26-00 

26-00 

26 00 

26-00 

26-14 

2 6*12 

Musur (Big) 

Midnapore 


f • 

22 • 00 

22-50 

22 50 

22-00 

22-25 

22-12 

23-00 


Kharagpur 


99 

22-00 

22 00 

22 50 

22 50 

22-25 

20 60 

2112 

Masur (Small) 

Ditto 


99 

21-00 

21-00 

21-00 

21-00 

21-00 

19-25 

19-75 

Gram (Big) 

Ditto 


99 

18-50 

18-50 

19 00 

19-00 

18*75 

17-37 

21-12 

Spices . 











Onion (Bombay) 

Midnapore 


Md. 

18-60 

19-00 

19-60 

19-60 

19-12 

16-56 

10 

Onion (Madras) 

Kharagpur 


*# 

10 00 

15-00 

15 00 

16-00 

15-25 

14-50 

10 -3< 

Onion (Tripuri) 

Midnapore 


»• 

18- 75 

19 -00 

19 -00 

19-00 

18-93 

16-25 

12-00 

Onion (Patnai) 

Kharagpur 


H 

17-00 

16-00 

16-00 

16-00 

10-26 

17-25 

N.S. 














SUPPLEMENT 1X3 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1902 


155 


fMlaMlI #*» MIDN/M*ORE — contd. Us w afSl 1M| 


Commodity. 

Name ot Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated -- 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month's 

average. 

Average of 
November, 
I960. 

4 th 

llth 

18th 

25th 





lie. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 


Rs. nP. 

Rs. nl\ 

Ka. nP. 

and F«g«fuW*s. 











MW (Nainitat) 

Mklnapore 

•• 

Mil. 

28*00 

29-00 

29 00 

29*00 

28*75 

27*00 

N.S. 


Amlagom 


tt 

20*00 

28-50 

29-00 

29-00 

28*12 

25*00 

N.S. 


Dudkumra 


” 

28-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

28 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

to to (Madras) . . 

Midnapore 


M 

27-50 

29-00 

29-00 

30*00 

28-87 

20-12 

19-00 


Kharagpur 


tt 

27*00 

28-00 

27-50 

28 00 

27*50 

26*00 

17-62 


Amlagora 

. . 

ft 

28-00 

29*00 

29*00 

29*00 

28-75 

25-62 

19-00 


Dudkumra 


ft 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Afco (Cold Storage) 

Kharagpur 


tt 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

22*75 

N.S. 

*t Pumpkin 

Amlagora 

. . 

ft 

8-00 

8-60 

8-00 

8-00 

8-12 

0-50 

4*00 


Jhargram 

. . 

ft 

7-50 

7-50 

7-50 

7-50 

7-50 

6*00 

7*62 


Dudkumra 

•• 

» 

0-50 

10*00 

11*00 

11-00 

10*37 

10-16 

6-37 

Kyg* and Poultry. 











i Egg (Ungraded) 

Binpur 

• • 

lOONos. 

12-00 

12-50 

12-50 

12*50 

12*37 

12*75 

9-72 

d (live woight 1J seem) 

Ditto 

• • 

Each 

3*00 

3 00 

3-00 

3-25 

3 (Hi 

2-87 

3*00 

, 

Tengra 

•• 

’* 

3*00 

3-25 

3-25 

3 25 

3*19 

3-62 

3*19 

Fhrep and Goaf . 











ep (live weight 1 2 deers) 

Bmpur 


Each 

20*00 

10-00 

19-00 


19*75 

19-60 

19-25 

it (live weight 14 seers) 

Ditto 


t» 

25-00 

25-00 

25-00 

■ 1 

26 25 

24-37 

23 37 

it (live weight 12 seers) 

Tengra 

•• 

tt 

23*00 

23-50 

23-50 


23 25 

24 37 

23 37 

Fruits (Dry). 







II 




hew (Kernel) 

Oontai (P) 

•• 

Md. 

120-00 

120-00 

120 00 



125*00 

160-00 

Cattle Fodder, 











Wy (Straw) 

Ballicbak 

•• 

Md. 

1*25 

1-00 

1*00 

1-25 

1*12 

1*66 

2 34 

Milk and Milk Produels. 











E (Buffalo) 

Amlagora 

• • 

Md. 

30-00 

28-00 

26*00 

25-00 

27-25 

31*50 

53-00 

^ (8kiinmed) 

Ditto 

• . 

tt 

00-00 

55-00 

52 00 

60-00 

54*25 

60*25 

48-00 

ter (Local) 

Ghatal 

** 

tt 

220-00 

220-00 

220-00 


220-00 

220-00 

200*00 

Oil and Oilcake. 











Wrd Oil 

Midnapore 

• . 

Md. 

87*50 

92-00 

92*00 

94-00 

91*37 

84*75 

78*50 



Kharagpur 

•• 

M 

87*00 

92-00 

94*00 

98-00 

86*50 

86*00 

86*00 
















156 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


Whoitsato prims 


MIDNAPORE — concld. 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 




1th 

lltli 

18th 

a 

average. 




Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Bb. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Oil and Oilcake — eoncld. 








Mustard Oilcake 

Amlagora 

Md. 

13 00 

13 60 

14-00 

14-00 

13-76 


Dudkumra 

M 

14 00 

14 00 

14-26 

14-26 

14 25 


Kharagpur 

H 

12-00 

13 00 

13-00 

13-00 

12-76 

Fibres, 








Jute (Garsat) 

Dudkumra 

Md. 

31 00 

30- 00 

31-00 

30 00 

30-60 


Kolaghat 

M 

32 00 

33-00 

33 00 

32 00 

32-60 

Miscellaneous. 








Gur (Cane) 

Amlagora 

Md. 

14 f>0 

16 00 

15 00 

14 00 

14 75 

Firewood 

Ditto 

»» 

2-00 

2-00 

200 

1-60 

1 87 


•Thargrom 

„ 

100 

1*60 

1-76 

1-76 

1-50 

Betel leaves 

Tamluk 

1,000 

Noh. 

3 -50 

4 60 

4-00 

4-00 

4-00 

1 


Ewombjr u 


L “‘ Av er 
month h Nou 
average. ^ 

















SUPPLEMENT TO THE OATXJFTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


157 


*•*“ PURULIA November 1961 






Collect inn weeks ended Saturday, 




Commodity. 


Name of Market. 

Unit. 


dated — • 


Monthly 

Last 

month’* 

Average 





4 th 

llth 

18th 

26t.h 

average. 

average. 

J.H '1 V tTIH UttJT| 
1060. 

Cereals . 




K*. ni». 

K». nl*. 

Rs. np. 

Rb. iif. 

mm 

Ra. up. 

Kh. up. 

mldv (Finn) (Sitae al) 


Purulia 

Aid. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

BPP1 

N.S. 

N.S. 



Manbazar(P) 

M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


N.S. 

N.S. 

ndrjy i Valium) (Bahai) 

(Now) 

(Old) 

Purulia 

f# 

N.S 

N.S. 

N.S. 

10-25 

10-26 

N.S. 

10*43 




11-12 

1 1 00 


11*00 

1103 

11 00 

11-00 


(New) 

(Old) 

Manbazar(P) 

ff 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

10-26 

10 25 

N.S. 

0-94 



t 9 

10-75 

10 on 

11-25 

11.25 

10-04 

11-50 

10 50 

iwlily (Oarso) (Lali) 

(New) 

Purulia 

M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

10*25 

10*25 

N.S. 

in* 


(Old) 


9> 

11 12 

11 00 

11 00 

11-00 

It 03 

11-50 



(New) 

(Old) 

Manhu/.nr (p) 


N.S. 

10.75 

N.S. 

10*50 

N.S. 

11-25 

10- 25 

11- 26 

10-25 

10-04 

N.S. 

11*00 

0*09 

10-50 

,uw> (Fun 1 ) (Sitasal) 

•• 

Purulia 

9* 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 



Mimbazar (p) 

9. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

ir«' (Medium) (Bahai) 

•• 

Purulia 


10-50 

111-50 

10*25 

10*25 

It) -37 

21-00 

17-76 



Man bazar ( p) 

99 

ID -00 

11) '00 

2I()0 

2000 

10-75 

20 60 

17 25 

r<" (Oar»o) (Lali) 

(New) 

(Old) 

Purulia 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

16*25 

16-25 

N.S. 

i :> . 03 



” 


18-50 

18*25 

18 25 

18-31 

10-00 

16-75 

• 

(Now) 

(Old) 

Man bazar (P) 

9 9 

M 

N.S. 

17 -87 

N.S. 

1826 

N.S. 

16-50 

N.S. 

10-50 

N.S. 

1708 

N.S. 

18 -76 

11-00 

18 -ia 

Pulses (Whole). 











liur (khari)(Hig) 

•* 

Purulia 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

20-12 

nd (Black) (Small) 

•* 

Ditto 

9 9 

28*0<> 

28-50 

28 50 

28-25 

28-31 

28*00 

25-50 

Pulses (Split). 











un K (Dnl) 

* * 

Purulia 

Md. 

28 00 

27-00 

27 00 

2800 

27 60 

28 00 

27 00 

p ftin (Dnl) 

** 

Ditto 

99 

18*50 

10*00 

20 00 

2000 

10-37 

18*50 

20*04 

Oil and Oilcake . 











uatard oil 

• • 

Purulia . . 

Md. 

88-tlO 

88-00 

00*00 

05-00 

90*25 

83 50 

81-75 

QBiard oiloake , „ 

•• 

Ditto 

M 

13 00 

13*00 

13 00 

13 00 

13 00 

12*00 

11*26 

Potato and Onion. 











*»t»<Red. Round) 

. . 

Man bazar (p) 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

>Ulo (Bihar) 

• a 

Ditto 

ft 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

(Nainital) .. 


Ditto 

ft 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

**•*'> (Hadrag) .. 

•- 

Ditto 

99 

28 *00 

28-75 

28*00 

28-00 

28-19 

27-26 

18*50 

5100 < Bi «) (Imported) 

*«• 

Ditto 

99 

16-00 

16-00 

16-00 

18-00 

16-50 

16*00 

11-25 

Mileh Cattle, 











w (“ilk yield 1 ar. daily) 

* (Milk yield 2 are. daily) 

* (Milk yield 3 ua. daily) 

• • 

• • 

* 1 

Kashipur (P) 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Each. 

M 

M 



110*00 

235 *00 

835-00 

150 *00 

235 *00 

885-00 

118 60 

222-00 

837*50 

108*75 

230 -00 

337 -60 J 

08 -75 

206 -25 

305*00 













158 


SUPPLEMENT TO TI1E CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


WJtoleeale prion PURULIA— concta. November i* 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 
month > 
average. 

Aywagr 0 
Novonj^,. 

I960. 

4th 

11th 

18th 

26th 





Rs. uP. 

Rs. uP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

££1 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. up 

Poultry, 








Wm 



Fowl (Live weight 1 »r.) 

•• 

Kashipor (P) 

Each. 

400 

4-00 

4*60 

4 60 

D 

4 81 

4 37 

Eggt, 











Hen Egg* 

. . 

Kashipur (P) 

Dozen 

1-50 

1 50 

150 

1 31 

1-45 

1 50 

1'fiO 

Ihiok Eggs 

•• 

Ditto 

»» 

2*25 

2-26 

2*B6 

1*69 

2 11 

2 26 

2 25 

Milk, 











Oew 

• • 

Kashipur (P) 

Md. 

25 00 

25 00 

30 00 

30 00 

27 60 

25 00 

30 00 

Buffalo 

•• 

Ditto 

•• 

30 00 

30 00 

55 00 

15 00 

82 60 

30 00 

35 00 

Lac and Shellac, 



i 








T. N. Shellac 


Balarampur (P) 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

NtS. 

10 60 

T. N. Shellac, Standard I 


Ditto 

(• 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. , 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

70 -25 

T. N. 6hella<-, Standard II 


Ditto 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

NtS. 

N.S. 

60-501 

Yellow Shellac 


Ditto 

»t 

72 00 

05 00 

65 00 

65 50 

66*87 

72 00 | 

02-66 

Buttonlac (Best) 


Ditto 

ft 

90 00 

93 00 


92 50 

•2*62 

96-00 

74-00 

Beedlao Kusu m 


Ditto 

t» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

50*00 

50*00 

N.S. 

42 50 

Seedlao Rangin 


Ditto 

tt 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

17-50 

17*60 

N.S. 

12 50 

Beedlao Bais&khi 


Ditto 

tt 

58 00 

49 00 

49 00 

31-50 

46*87 

58 -00 

57 (JO 

Stioklac Kuanm 


Jhalda 

tt 

N.S. 1 

37-50 

36 *00 

34*00 

36 83 

N.S. 

* 4K 75 

Btloklao Rangin 


Ditto 

tt 

10*50 

19*50 

18-00 

19 50 

18 37 ! 

16-88 

38-75 

Btfeklao Baisakhi . 

•• 

Ditto 

tt 

33 00 

N.S. 

28 00 

84 00 

31 67 

32 00 

3 2 50 













SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA CAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


159 


JALPAIGURI 


Novtmtor 1961 





Collection weeks ended Saturday. 


Last 

Average of 





dated — 


Monthly 


Name of Market. 

Unit. 





average. 

month's 1 

November* 

(jomiuutu vy • 


4th 

11th 

18th 

25th 


average. 

1000. 


- — "**■ 



Rs. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ha. nP. 

Cereals . 










ly (Fine) Nuui» 

Dhupguri (P) 

Md. 

13-50 

13 GO 

13 00 

13 50 
Old 

13-37 

Old 

14*75 

N.S. 






N.S. 

N.S. 









New 

New 




Sainuktala (P) 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Jv ( Medium) Dudkalara 

Dhupguri (P) 

>> 

12*50 

12*50 

12*00 

1300 

Old 

12*50 

Old 

13 50 

13-76 






9*50 

9*60 









New 

New 

14 50 

13-00 

ay (Medium) Josliou 

Samuktala (P) 

M 

15*50 

14*50 

14*50 

14*50 

14*75 

4 y (duarae) Bagra 

Dhupguri (P) 

99 

11*50 

11 50 

11 00 

12 00 
Old 

11 50 
Old 

12 94 

12*50 







9*00 

9*00 









New 

New 




Sainuktala (P) 

M 

14 CO 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14-60 

14*50 

12-26 

o(F.ue) Nuiua 

Dhupguri 


N.S. 

N-S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Jalpaiguri 

$» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

31*00 


Alipurduai 

»» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

e (Medium) Dudkalam 

Dhupguri 

99 

22*50 

22 -CO 

22*00 

23*50 

22*62 

24*12 

N.S. 


Jalpaiguri 

tt 

23 00 

22 50 

23 00 

22 60 

22-76 

23 37 

21*40 

e (Medium) Joahoa 

Alipurduar 

99 

20*00 

20*00 

20*00 

26*00 

26-00 

26 00 

22-37 

e (Medium) Naybazar 

Dhupguri 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Jalpaiguri 

99 

24*37 

24 37 

25 00 

25*26 

24*76 

24*44 

N.S. 

u ((\mrse) Bagra 

Dhupguri 

99 

22 • 00 

22*00 

21*50 

22*60 

22*00 

23*26 

21 44 


Jalpaiguri 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

20*44 


Alipurduar . . 

99 

25*00 

25*00 

25*00 

26*00 

25*00 

25 00 

21 00 

i® (Coarse) lUiowdhaiii 

Dhupguri 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Jalpaiguri 

’• 

21 50 

21 00 

21*50 

21*60 

21 37 

22*06 

N.S. 

1 )ala ( split pulses). 










ig (Ordinary) (U.P.) 

Jalpaiguri 

Md. 

29 06 

28 00 

28 00 

28 00 

28*25 

29 26 

29*00 

Ur (6 *k) (Bibar) 

Ditto 

99 

21 50 

22 00 

22 00 

22 50 

22 00 

21 00 

21 -75 

Spiers, 










on (Big) (Bihar) 

Jalpaigui 

Md. 

18*00 

20 00 

20*00 

20 00 

19-50 

14 00 

12*00 

°n (Kaligang) . . 

Ditto 

» 

19*50 

21*00 

20*00 

20*00 

20 12 

14*60 

15*00 

f Chillies (Bihar) 

Ditto 


104*00 

104*00 

104*00 

106*00 

104-50 

99*76 

100*00 

7 Chillies (Kali gang) 

Ditto 

99 

104 00 

104*00 

104*00 

104 00 

104*00 

102*60 

95*00 

Potato and Vegetables, 

**> (Deuhi) 

Jalpaiguri 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

36 00 

38*00 

36*50 

N.S. 

16*00 

(Rod Round) 

Ditto 

m 

28*00 

28*00 

25*00 

25*00 

26*50 

25*76 

10*00 












SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 19*2 


lrtfl 


pftSM JALFAftQUfH — condd. Ww - m fct f i 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 

month’s 

Aver* 

Nover 

m 




4th 

11th 

18th 

25th 

average. 

average. 

Mustard seeds. 




Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Re. uP, 

Re. nP. 

H., 

Mustard seed (Bold other then 

Dhupguri (P) 


Md. 


32 00 

32 0* 

33 00 

32-26 

30-00 

p 

yellow). 

Alipurduar (P) 


M 


30 00 

30 00 

30 00 

30 00 

29 00 



Falakata (P) 


M 

29-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

29*00 

29-00 

■ 

Milch Cattle. 




1 







Cow (Mlik yield 1} seers daily) 

Samuktala 

•• 

Kuril 


00-00 

90 00 

95 00 


99-25 

lot 

Milk and Milk Products * 











Milk (Cow) ~ 

Jalpaiguri 

• • 

Md. 

34 00 

36 00 

30 00 

2(1-00 

31 25 

34 00 

an 

Tobacco . 

Alipurduar 

* * 

M 

20-00 

20 00 

2(1 -00 

20 00 

20 00 

26 00 


Matihaii 

Dhupguri 


Md. 

] 10-00 

100 00 



106*00 

108 00 

itii 


Alipurduar 


M 

96-00 

94 00 

92 00 


92-76 

101*00 

ltili 


Falakata 


M 


90 00 

86-00 


89-00 

101-00 

hit; 

Jati 

Dhupguri 


99 

112*00 


120-00 

11000 

113-00 

116 00 

191 


Alipurduar 


»■ 


95-00 


92 00 

94*25 

100*00 

1M> 


Falakata 



95-00 

95 00 

88-00 

N.S. 

92-07 

99*76 

ltf 

Fibre. 











Jute Northern -garsat 

Dhupguri (P) 


Md. 


29 50 

28 -00 

25 00 

28*12 

30-25 

41 


Balacobu (P) 


M 

30-00 

35-00 

34 00 

34-00 

34-75 

38 50 

62 


Falakata (P) 


M 


27-00 

27-00 

22-00 

20 25 

29 25 

4i 

Hide and Skin. 











Cow (Wot — salted) 

Alipurduar 

•• 

Per 

piece ol 

6 lbs. 

0 00 

6 00 

6-00 

6 00 

6 00 

6 00 

1 

Buffalo (Wet — salted) 

Ditto 

e • 

Per 

piece of 
20 lbs. 

8 00 

8 00 

8 00 i 

8 00 

8-00 

8 00 

l 

Goat 

Ditto 

#!• 

Per 

piece. 

2 00 

2 00 

2 00 

2-00 

2 00 

2-00 


M i seel lan eoue. 








i 



Gur (Bheli) 

Jalpaiguri 

... 

Md. 

20*60 

27 00 

27*00 

20*00 

20*62 

25-62 

O] 





























SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALfTTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


16i< 


Wbatosali prist* DARJBELIN6 M ewm bt r HU 







1 Collection weeks ended Saturday, 




Commodity. 


I Name of Market. 

Unit. 


dated — 


Monthly 

Last 

month's 

Average of 
November. 





4th 

11th 

18th 

25th 

average. 

average. 

1900. 







Ra. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Re. nr. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Cereals, 











Paddy (fine) (Kakurjali) 

•• 

Matigara 

• . 

Md. 

ln-oo 

14*60 

14*75 

16*00 

14 81 

16*87 

13*25 



Naxalbari 


M 

N.S 

14*25 

14 50 

14-76 

14 *50 

16 31 

13.33 

paddy (medium) (Kaiam) 

•• 

Matigara 


» 

14-25 

14*00 

14*25 

14*50 

14*25 

14*56 

11-87 



Naxalbari 


M 

14-50 

13*75 

14*00 

14*25 

14*12 

14*69 

11-75 

Paddy (coarse) (Baiohi) 

•• 

Matigara 


M 

13-76 

13*25 

13-50 

13*76 

13*56 

14 00 

11-31 



Naxalbari 


99 

14-00 

13*50 

13 • 50 

13-60 

13-02 

14*19 

11-16 

Hire (Hue) (Bangehibari) 

.. 

Siliguri 



24/50 

24*50 

24-50 

24*50 

24-50 

24 62 

22-56 

Hies (medium) (Kaiam) 

•• 

Ditto 


*« 

•» 

22 00 

21*50 

21-00 

21*50 

21-50 

22*00 

20-12 

Rice (coarse) (Mixed) 

• - 

Ditto 


M 

20- 00 

10*50 

19*50 

19*50 

19*62 

20 00 

10-43 

Maize . . 


Kalimpong 


M 

lino 

11 50 

11-60 

11*50 

11*50 

11 00 

11*12 



Darjeeling 


II 

13-00 

13-00 

13*50 

14*00 

13-37 

13*00 

13-00 

Spices, 












Cardamom 

.. 

Kalimpong 

.. 

Md. 

65 00 

66-00 

72*00 

72-00 

68-50 

00 00 

88*25 



Sonada 

. . 

•I 

06 00 

65*00 

7*1 *00 

71*00 

68*25 

62*50 

82*25 

Stoyei . . . . 

• • 

Kalimpong 

. . 

•i 

0-00 

0-00 

8 00 

8*00 

8 50 

9*00 

9*00 



Darjeeling 

•• 

•* 

10-00 

0*00 

9 00 

9*00 

9*26 

11*25 

12*00 

Potato and Vegetables . 












potato (table, red round) 


Darjeeling 


Md. 

32 00 

30*00 

26*00 

26*00 

28*60 

27*26 

21*37 

?otato (table, white Nainital) 


Ditto 


ii 

N.S. 

29*00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

29 00 

N.8. 

N.S. 

/otato Reed (Kalamati) 


Ditto 


1 

•» 

26 00 

25 00 

26*00 

24*00 

25*25 

24*00 

23-62 

}otato Reed (Pilamati) 


Ditto 


ii 

23*50 

23*00 

24*00 

21*00 

22-87 

21*25 

21*00 

Jahbage 


Ditto 


ii 

16*00 

16*00 

17*00 

17*00 

16*60 

16*50 

17*75 

^ ** 


Ditto 


ii 

20 00 

22*00 

25*00 

25 00 

28*00 

45*75 

30*25 



Kalimpong 


ii 

20*00 

20 00 

22*50 

20 00 i 

20*62 

60*00 

26*00 

Beam 

• • 

Ditto 

•- 

ii 

10*00 

1000 

9 00 

9*00 

9*50 

10*00 

0*33 



Darjeeling 


•» 

10*00 

12*00 

14*00 

14*00 

12*60 

18*00 

11*76 

^uliflower 

•• 

Ditto 


Per 100 

35*00 

35*00 

30*00 

32 00 

33*00 

N.S. 

30*00 

Eggs. 




| 








* fe r *ded medium) 

•- 

Darjeeling 

• • 

Per 

dosen. 

! 

2*60 

2*50 

2 50 

2*26 

2*43 

2*47 

2*06 

^ and Milk Pro<h*u. 










‘ 


mm 

Sukhiapokhri 

•• 

Md. 

180*00 

180*00 

180*00 

180*00 

180*00 

177*60 

181 *26 












162 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


Wholesale priest DARJEELING — conrtd. November itei 

Collec tion weeks ended Saturday, 

dated— Last Average 0 | 

Commodity. Name of Market. Unit. Monthly month’s November 


I | average. average. l^t 

4th 11th 18th 25th 


Its. nP. Rh. nP. Re. nP. Re. nP. Re. nP. Re. nP. Kh. 

Kliti’f) oral Uoat . 

Pig (Live weight, 1 £ mda. each) Naxalbari Pair 165-00 100-00 1G0-00 105-00 102-50 163*33 1*»7 

Milch OattU. 

Cow (yielding I sr. a day) .. Matigara .. Cm, oh 80 00 80*00 75-00 S0-00 78-75 88-112 Hit 7^ 

Buffalo (yielding 2 srs. a day) . . Naxalbari .. „ 105-00 190-00 195-00 190-00 192-50 192-32 105.(10 


Fibre. 

t 

Jute (Jam) so Oai-Hat) .. Siliguri .. Md. 32-00 31-00 28-00 29*00 30*00 33-50 4f»*ot) 

Animal Fibre. 

Raw wool (white) (Tibet) .. Kalimpong .. Md. N.S. N.S. 210-00 N.S. 210-00 N.S. N.8 

Raw wool (grey) (Til>et) .. Ditto .. „ N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S N.S. 

Fruit*. 

Oranges .. .. Teeeta .. 1,000 N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. 

Miscellaneous. 

Chirata .. .. Sonada .. Md. 30-00 35-00 40-00 41-00 38-00 34 50 lit 00 



















SUPPLEltief^ifO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. MAY 10, 1962 


163 


*S5S«= 


prtcw MALDA Novembtr 1991 


Commodity’. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection woeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 

months’ 

average. 

Average of 
Noveber, 
1960. 

4th 

11th 

18th 

25th 

average. 




Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Cereals 










ddy Sahebkalam (Fine) 

Balianawabganj 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Ratanpurhat 

91 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

ddy Jhulan (Medium) (Old) . . 

Balianawabganj 

ft 

13 00 

14-50 

14-37 

N.S. 

14*62 

15-62 

13-00 

(New) .. 

Ditto 

it 

N.S. 

N.S. 

11*56 

12-00 

11 -78 

N.S. 

11*19 

.. (Old) .. 

Ratanpurhat 

a 

14-50 

15-19 

16*19 

14*75 

14-90 

16-20 

13-62 

„ (Now) . . 

Ditto 

ft 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12*60 

12-60 

12 *60 

N.S. 

11*37 

idy Kalam (Medium) (Old) . . 

Balianawabganj 

a 

15 00 

14-50 

14-75 

N.S. 

14-75 

15 -62 

13*00 

M 

Ratanpurhat 

it 

14-75 

15-19 

N.S. 

14-75 

14-89 

15-43 

13-65 

idy Chenga( Medium) (Old) . . 

Balianawabganj 

a 


14 00 

14-00 

N.S. 

14*16 

14-93 

12-00 

II 

Ratanpurhat 

19 

N.S. 

14-37 

N.S. 

N.S 

14*37 

15-31 

13-00 

idy Bhadoi (Coarse) (Old) . . 

Balianawabganj 

» 

12 -37 

12 -00 

12-00 

N.8. 

12*12 

12-49 

10-54 

»* • • 

Ratanpurhat 


N.S. 

13-19 

13-19 

12 -75 

13-04 

12-93 

11 *75 

o Milled Mixed (Medium) 

English ba*ar 


24 25 

24 -25 

24 -25 

24 -25 

24 *26 

24 *93 

20 -50 

West-Dinajpur). 










Ditto 

Ditto 

99 


24 -50 

24 *50 

24 -50 

24 *50 

24 -50 

N.S. 

loy . . 

Ratanpurhat 


16-00 

13-50 

13-60 

14 -75 

14 -43 

12*79 

N.S. 

Pulses (whole). 










m . . ' 

Ratanpurhat 

Ms. 

18-50 

16-75 

17-50 

16-00 

17 18 

16-00 

N.S. 

i (green Maskalai) 

Ditto 

99 

21 -50 

22 37 

21 -50 

21 -50 

21 -71 

19 -68 

N.S. 

i (black Kalokalai) 

Ditto 

” 

20-75 

21 -50 

20*00 

20 00 

20 56 

18-04 

17-00 

Spices. 










on (deahi, amall) 

Balianawabganj 

Md. 

12-50 

14-00 

14-00 

14-00 

13 -62 

14 -50 

15 *00 

Oilseed. 










itard (bold other than yellow) 

Ratanpurhat 

Md. 

32 -00 

33 -50 

32 -00 

32 -00 

32 37 

33 68 

N.S. 

Bggs. 










% (ungraded) 

Ratanpurhat 

100 

12-50 

12-50 

13 -12 

12 -50 

12 *65 

11 -87 

12-50 

Poultry . 










1 ( llv ® wt. 1 B r.) 

Ratanpurhat 

Each 

2-50 

2-50 

2 00 

2-25 

2 -31 

2-37 

2-00 

Sheep and Qoat. 










' (U *> Wt. 10 8TS.) 

Ratanpurhat 

Each 

23 00 

23 00 

20 -00 

25 00 

22 -75 

23 00 

21 00 












164 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY IB, 


Wfionwle prices ISALDA — concld. Nowmber 11 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

Months 

average. 


4th 

Xltb 

18th 

25th 



Rs. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

B.., 

Fibre . 










Jut© (Capsularies) 

Ratanpurhat 

Md. 

25 *59 

22*75 

28 *56 

17-62 

22 -38 

26 -66 

Kj 

Jute (Olitorious). 

Ditto 

t» 

26-56 

27-56 

26*87 

22-37 

26 *46 

28-96 

43 

M isoeUaneous . 




i 






Qtsr (Akhi, Chakki) 

English bazar 

Md. 

27-00 

27 -00 

27-00 

27-00 

27 -00 

26 -25 

18 






















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


165 


fttmate prim WEST OMMPVR November mt 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month’s 

Average of 
November., 
1900. 




4th 

11th 

18th 

25th 

average. 




Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Kb. uP. 

Cereals. 










Jdy (fino) D«rikM»l 

Dhankoil Hat 

Md. 

14* 50 

16-00 

15*00 

15*00 

14-87 

14-60 

N.S. 

ddy Pftnihati 

Balurghat Hat 

M 

18*50 

18*50 

18*25 

18-25 

13 37 

18 50 

11-50 

jam (Mixed) 

Damdama Hat 

M 

18*50 

18-00 

18*00 

18*00 

13 -25 

13-76 

11*44 

ieng » «nd K»l»m 

Dhankoil Hat 

»* 

18-00 

14-00 

14 *00 

14*00 

13*75 

13-60 

12*87 


Ialampur Hat 

99 

14 00 

18-50 

18*50 

13-50 

13*02 

14*25 

13-87 


Dalkhola Hat 

tt 

14 00 

18*50 

18*60 

13-60 

13 62 

14-26 

18-00 

ddy (coarse) 

•• 

tt 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

ce (fine) DarikiM»l 

Dhankoil Hat 

99 

28.00 

23-76 

28-75 

24-00 

28- 62 

28-56 

N*S. 

ce (medium) Pftnibati 

Balurghat Hat 

1 

23.25 

28 *25 

23-25 

23*25 

23 *25 

23 31 

20 26 


Balurghat Assembl- 
ing Centre. 

■ 

28-25 

28*25 

28 -25 

23*25 

23*25 

23-66 

20*00 

Jam (Mixed) 

Damdama Hat 

Is 

28 *25 

23 *25 

28 -25 

23*26 

23 *26 

23 *66 

20-60 

engo and Kalam 

Dhankoil Hat 

M 

22*25 

22*75 

22*75 

23*00 

22 *09 

22-67 

21 -00 


Ialampur Hat 

n 

20-00 

25 *00 

26 -00 

25*50 

25-37 

26 *00 

28-76 


Dalkhola Hat . . 

ft 

20 00 

26-00 

26-00 

25*50 

25 -37 

26-87 

22*87 

ce (coarse) Kalam 

Ialampur Hat 

tt 

84-00 

28-00 

28-00 

23-60 

23*37 

23*87 

21 *00 


Dalkhola Hat 

M 

24-00 

23-00 

28-00 

23-50 

23-37 

23*75 

19*75 

Pulses {whole). 










id (Mack, small) «• 

Dhankoil Hat 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14*00 

Spices. 










illiofl (dry, Kaliaganj) 

Dhankoil Hat 

Md. 

100-00 

100*00 

100*00 

100-00 

100*00 

98-75 

70 *00 

non, ( doshi, small) 

Ditto 

ft 

18-00 

17- 75 

19*00 

18*50 

18 31 

15*12 

11*60 

Oil Seed . 




1 






“tard (Bold other than yellow) 

Dhankoil Hat 

Md. 

36-50 

86 *50 

80*50 

30-50 

36 *50 

36 *25 

34 *87 


Maharaja Hat 

ft 

86*50 

86*50 

86 *50 

36*50 

36 *50 

80 *50 

88 -87 

Fibres. 










to (Indian, Northern Garsat) 
(olitorious) 

Balurghat Hat 

Md. 

80-80 

28 *25 

20*00 

25 *00 

27 -31 

20 *87 

45*12 

Ditto (Capsularies) 

Damdama Hat 

tt 

80*00 

20-00 

27*00 

25*00 

27-00 

20-87 

43*76 


Dhankoil Hat , 

ft 

27-00 

28-50 

27 -50 

26-00 

27 *25 

28 *87 

45*75 


Maharaja Hat 

tr 

27*00 

28-50 

27*50 

25-50 

27-12 

28 -87 

45 -66 


Islampore Hat 

tt 

27-00 

28*00 

25-00 

24 *50 

25 -02 

20*87 

43 -87 


Dalkhola Hat 

tt 

27-50 

20*00 

25 00 

24-50 1 

25-75 

27-87 

46 -00 














160 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 



WhoMte prices 


WEST DIMAdPUR — condd 


November i* 



Vamo rtf M A,rk At 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month's 

Average 

Novemfc 

Commodity. 

Xv (»UM7 vS iXA. Qd IVv V i 

4th 

nth 

18th 

26th 


average. 

I960. 














SUPPLEMENT TO THE CAUUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


167 


Wholesale prices COOCH BEHAR November 1961 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated— 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month’s 

Average of 
November, 



4th 

11th 

18th 

25th 

average. 

1960. 












Cereal*. 



Ii«. nP. 

Uh. nP. 

Its. nP. 

Its. nl*. 

Us. nP. 

Its. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

ftd dy (toe), 

Pimdibari 

Md. 

16 00 

15-26 

14-00 

14-50 

14-09 

16 -37 

14-60 


Mathabhanga 


15 50 

16-50 

16-60 

16-50 

15-50 

15 -88 

14-44 


Tufanganj 


13-50 

13-50 

13 75 

13-75 

13-64 

14-98 

N.S. 

ftC jdy (medium), J ostia 

Pundibari 


14 75 

16-00 

13-50 

14-00 

14 31 

16-00 

13-81 


Mathabhanga 

«. 

15 -25 

15-25 

16-25 

15 25 

16 -26 

15-31 

13-60 


Tufanganj 


13 00 

12-75 

13-25 

13 26 

13-00 

14-66 

13 50 

ftdHv (course), Depha 

Pundibari 


14 -26 

14 60 

13-00 

13-26 

13-76 

14.37 

13-60 


Mathabhanga 

* 

14 25 

14 60 

14-50 

14 60 

14-44 

14-81 

13-26 


Tufanganj 


12 50 

12 -25 

12 75 

13-00 

12-62 

14- 12 

13-00 

ice (tine), (Imported) 

Conch Behur 


2h 25 

20- 12 

26-00 

25 -50 

26 -97 

26 -37 

25-69 


Mathabhanga 


26-50 

20 50 

26-50 

26 50 

20-60 

26-62 

26-60 


Dinhata 


25 25 

25-25 

2 »• 50 

26 00 

26-50 

26-00 

N.S. 

ice (medium), (Imported) 

Ci»och Behar 


24 -50 

24 37 

24 -25 

24 00 

24 38 

24-62 

23 87 


Mathabhanga 


24 50 

26 00 

26 -00 

26 00 

24-87 

26-31 

24 -31 


Dinhata 


2-i -50 

24 50 

24 -60 

26-00 

24*62 

24-04 

23 08 

ioe (n»uHe), (Imported) 

Cooch Bohar 


22 -H7 

22 75 

22 50 

22 25 

22-59 

22 84 

22-12 


Mathabhanga 

” 

23 00 

23 50 

23 00 

23 00 

23*12 

24-00 

22-62 

• 

Dinhata 

99 

o 

o 

71 

22 -50 

22-50 

22-75 

22-44 

22-81 

21*16 

l)als (jtjds /whole) 










ung (ordinary) 

Cooch Behar 

Md. 

20 5«> 

29 -00 

29 -50 

30 00 

29 -50 

29-60 

28 -69 

Iwiur(big) . . ..i 

Ditto 

• • 

21 00 

23 00 

21 -50 

22 -60 j 

22 00 

20 -88 

21 -56 

ram (big) 

Ditto 

- 

21-00 

20 -00 

21 -00 

21 -50 

20-87 

21 -00 

21 -19 

Spices. 


I 




! 




taion (deshi) 

Cooch Behar 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

1 N.S. ’ 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

21 -00 

'tuon (Bihar) 

Ditto 

»« 

24 50 

20-00 

20 -50 

22 -00 

21-75 

22 -37 

15-75 

,r .v Chillies (Bengal) 

Ditto 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

97 *00 

lr >’ v^hilUos (Bihar) 

Ditto 

- 

loii-oo 

105 00 

105 -00 

105 00 

105-25 

106 00 

102-50 

Potato and Vegetables • 
(Darjeeling) 

Cooch Behar 

Md. 

C 

irt 

00 

71 

25 00 

22-00 

23-00 

24-62 

26-25 

N.S. 

Wto (Assam) . . 

Ditto 

D 

27 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

27-00 

26-16 

24-00 

'Woto (Bihar) 

Ditto 

e » 

28-50 

22 -00 

20 -50 

21-00 

23-00 

25-87 

34-00 

Fibre. 










ot# (bottom) 

Cooch Behar 

Md. 

26-50 

26-00 

25-00 

22-00 

24-87 

28- 12 

44 37 

“** (middle) 

Dinhata 

»» 

28 00 

29-50 

28-50 

24 -25 

27-56 

31-74 

46*62 







k;s 


, SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


Wholesale prices COOCH BEHAR — concld. November 19$ 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month's 

average. 


4th 

11th 

18th 

25th 





Ka. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Be. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rb. n| 

Oil seed* 











Mustard 

Puiulibari 

. . 

Md. 

N.S. 

35 00 

32-00 

30-00 

32-33 

34-60 

30-i: 


Tufanganj 

. . 

»» 

36-00 

33-00 

32*76 

33-00 

33-44 

32-00 

28 -(k 

Mustard oil 

Coooh Behar 

•• 

ft 

98-00 

06-00 

96-00 

97-00 

96-76 

96-37 

86 * 1 ; 

Tobacco, 











Matihari (good) 

Cooch Behar 


Md. 

100*78 

99*78 

04-78 

N.S. 

98 -46 

102-78 

169*4 


Dinhata 


>> 

134*78 

134*78 

129-78 

119 78 

129-78 

139-63 

192# 

Matihari (medium) . . 

Coooh Behar 


1 1 

94-78 

93*78 

89*78 

88-78 

91-78 

96 78 

160 6 


Dinhata 


»» 

94-78 

94*78 

91-78 

84*78 

91*63 

99*28 

167 9 

Matihari (coarse) 

Cooch Behar 



87-78 

84*78 

82*78 

82-78 

84-53 

89*28 

1441 


Dinhata 



72*78 

69*78 

69*78 

66*78 

67-08 

74*78 

132-4 

Jati (good ) 

Cooch Behar 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

100-78 

N.S. 


Dinhata 



194-78 

184-78 

174*78 

164-78 

177-28 

192*28 

272*1 

Jati (medium) 

Cooch Behar 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

94*78 

N.S. 


Dinhata 


99 

144*78 

134-78 

129*78 

124-78 

138-63 

142*28 

224 1 

Jati (coarse) 

Cooch Behar 


9 » 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

88-78 

N.S, 


Dinhata 


99 

84-78 

79-78 

74*78 

69-78 

77-28 

88 *28 

iso 4 

Hide and Skin . 











Oow (wet and salted) 

Cooch Behar 


rieee 

7-00 

7-00 

7*00 

6*76 

6-94 

6-88 

7 ■ 1 

Buffalo (wet and salted) 

Ditto 


9 9 

9*00 

0-00 

9-00 

9*00 

9-00 

9*31 

11 *’ 

Goat (wet and salted) 

Ditto 

•• 

99 

1*87 

2-00 

2-00 

2*00 

1-97 

1 - 91 

2*1 

Miscellaneous. 











Gur (Bheli) 

Cooch Behar 

•• 

Md. 

27-00 

.24-50 

27-00 

27-60 

i 26-60 

l 

26*62 

*244 


WjutJcus,’ Bijiljungs, 

Calcutta, the 19th Deoember, 1961 


N. C. BAY, 

Joint Director of Agricultural Marketing 
West Bengal. 













SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 10, 1962 


169 


CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 
NOTICE 

NOTICE is hereby given under section 47(3) of the 
Calcutta Improvement Act, 1911, that the Board of 
Trustees for the Improvement of Calcutta have 
«mlied to the State Government for sanction to the 
toprovement Scheme No. LXXXIV (Park at 138 
Cornwallis Street) which was first published in the 
“Calcutta Gazette” and in local newspapers on the 
12th October 1961. 

10 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1 
The 5th April 1962. 

K. SEN, Chairman. 


NOTIFICATION 

Repayment of 4 per cent. Calcutta Improvement 
Trust Debenture Loan of 1952, dated the 25th 
August 1952. 

The 4 per cent. Calcutta Improvement Trust 
Debenture Loan of 25 th August 1952 for 
Rs. 80,00,000 is repayable on the 25th August 1962 
from which date interest on it will cease. Holders 
of Debentures of this loan should tender their 
Debentures at the Local Authorities Loan Section, 


State Bank of India, Calcutta, at least three weeks 
before the due date of repayment with the follow- 
ing endorsement on the back of each Debenture: — 

“Received payment in full of all demand for 
principal and interest hereon. 

10, Netaji Subhas Road, 

Calcutta-1. 

The 23rd April 1962. 


Signature of Holder.” 

K. SEN, 
Chairman. 

CORRIGENDUM 

In line 66 of paragraph 2 of the Improvement 
Trust Notification published in “Supplement to the 
Calcutta Gazette” in three successive issues of 19th, 
26th April and 3rd May 1962 at pages 110, 114 and 
117 respectively please read “34E” in place of 
“14E”. 

S. MUKHERJEE, 
Superintendent, 

Government Printing, West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at the West Bengal Government Press, Alipore. 



ReglstervJ No. C20T 

Sty* 


(Ealrutta 





OkzrttF 


VA1SAKHA 27 ] 


THURSDAY, MAY 17, 1962 


[SAKA 1884 


PART IA — Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India; and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 
and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India” are only 
republished. 


[To be substituted for the notification bearing the 
i,iine number and date, published at pages 73-76 
in the “Calcutta Gazette”, Part IA, dated 10th May 

1962.J 

ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962. 

No. 82/140/62. — In pursuance of the provisions 
of sub-section (1) of section 86 of the Representation 
ol the. People Act, 1951, the Election Commission 
hereby publishes a copy of the Election Petition 
No. 140 of 1962, presented to the Commission on the 
11th April 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, 
by Shri Amalendra Lai Roy, son of Shashi Lai Roy, 
Kandi, post office and police-station Kandi, district 
Murshidabad, West Bengal, calling in question the 
election to the Legislative Assembly of the State of 
West Bengal from the Kandi constituency of that 
Assembly of Kumar Jagadish Chandra Sinha, son of 
late Birendra Chandra Sinha, Kandi Rajbati, post 
^tice and police-station Kandi, district Murshidabad, 
West Bengal. 

Election Petition No. 140 of 1962 

To THE ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA, 

1 Aurangzeb Road, 

New Delhi. 

n the matter of an election petition under the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 (Act 
43 of 1951) 

And 

* n the matter of calling into the question the Election 
held in February 1962 for filling a seat in the 
West Bengal Legislative Assembly from 50 
, an di Assembly Constituency and declaring the 
ejection of Kumar Jagadish Chandra .Sinha as 
the returned candidate from the said 

Constituency to be void and further declaring 
that Amalendra Lai Roy has been duly 


elected to fill the seat in the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly lrom 50 Kandi Assembly 
Constituency 

And 

In the matter of Amalendra Lai Roy, son of Shashi 
Lai Roy, of Kandi, post office and police-station 
Kandi, district Murshidabad, West Bengal, 
Petitioner. 

versus 

Kumar Jagadish Chandra Sinha, son of late Birendra 
Chandra Sinha, of Kandi Rajbati, post office and 
police-station Kandi, district Murshidabad, West 
Bengal, Respondent. 

The humble petition of the aforesaid 

petitioner, 

Most respectfully sheweth: 


(1) That your petitioner is a voter in the 50— 
Kandi Assembly Constituency and his name 
appears in the Electoral Roll maintained for the said 
50 -Kandi Assembly Constituency in Part 60, Serial 
No. 8, as finally published and that your petitioner 
offered himself as a candidate for election to fill a 
seat in the West Bengal Legislative Assembly from 
the said Constituency held on 20th February 1962. 

(2) That the aforesaid respondent also offered 
himself as a candidate for a seat in the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the same Constituency 
and was illegally declared as duly elected to fill the 
seat in the above Constituency by Shri N. K. Saha, 
Returning Officer of the said Constituency, on the 
27th of February 1962. 

(3) That on the 27th of February 1962 the date 
appointed for the counting of votes in the said 50 — 
Kandi Assembly Constituency, after the completion 
of the counting of votes polled by this petitioner 
and the abovenamed respondent, the aforesaid 


84 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 17, 1962 


[Part 


Returning Officer recorded in the Result-sheet in 
Form 20, the total number of votes polled by each 
candidate and announced the same, after which 
Shri Suhas Das, election agent of this petitioner, 
applied in writing to the said Returning Officer for 
a recount of all the ballot papers already counted, 
stating the grounds on which he demanded such 
recount (certified copy of the petition is filed here- 
with marked as Annexure A). 

(4) That the said Returning Officer illegally 
rejected the prayer for recounting made at the 
appropriate time as required by rule 63(3) of the 
Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, on grounds which 
are bad both in facts as well as in law and assigned 
such reasons for this rejection which contravene the 
provisions of rule 63 of the Conduct of Election 
Rules, 1961, which deal with the “Recount of 
Votes”. 

That rule 63(1) of the Conduct of Election Rules, 
1961, clearly lays down that a candidate or his 
election agent may apply in writing for a recount of 
all or any of the ballot papers already counted only 
after the completion of counting and the announce- 
ment of the total nugiber of votes polled by each 
candidate by the Returning Officer and that the 
prayer of the election agent of this petitioner for 
recount was made in accordance with the provisions 
of the relevant rule. 

That neither the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, nor the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, gives 
to any candidate, or his Election Agent, or counting 
agents any right or scope to raise any objection 
about the results ol counting, or to demand a recount 
of all or any of the ballot papers already counted, at 
any earlier stage of counting of the ballot papers in 
any election, for any Assembly or Parliamentary 
Constituency before the completion of the counting 
of votes recorded in all the ballot papers, the 
recording in the result-sheet in Form 20 of the total 
number of votes polled by each candidate and the 
announcement of the same by the Returning Officer. 

That the failure of this petitioner and his election 
agent to raise any objection at earlier stages of 
counting on the 27th of February 1962, the appointed 
date for counting of votes for the said 50 — Kandi 
Assembly Constituency, and the fact that the 
application for recount was made on that date by 
the election agent of this petitioner only after the 
completion of the counting of all the ballot papers 
and announcements of the aggregated total of votes 
polled by each candidate, were assigned by the 
Returning Officer as the reasons for finding the 
prayer for recount as being unreasonable. 

(A certified copy of the order passed by the 
Returning Officer on the application of Shri 
Suhas Das, Election Agent of this petitioner, 
on 27th February 1962 at 4-15 p.m. is attached 
herewith marked as Annexure B.) 

(5) That the counting of votes for the said 50 — 
Kandi Assembly Constituency started at 9 a.m. on 
27th February 1962 and was completed at about 
3-20 p.m. That 42,746 ballot papers (including 
42,614 votes recorded at polling stations and 132 
ballot papers sent by post) were scrutinised and 
counted within a very short period of six hours and 


20 minutes (i.e., from 9 a.m. to 3-20 p.m.) very 
hurriedly without giving this petitioner and his 
counting agents sufficient opportunities of following 
the scrutiny and rejection of ballot papers and 
reception and counting of valid ballot papers and 
without leaving any time and scope for making 
objections regarding irregularities and illegalities 
committed during the very hurried procedure of 
counting. 

(6) That the Returning Officer erred in law i n 
following the procedure laid down in rule 56A of the 
Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, which is applicable 
only to the scrutiny and rejection of ballot papers in 
the counting of votes at notified polling stations 
under rule 59 of the said Rules, but is not applicable 
to the scrutiny and rejection of ballot papers in the 
present case. 

(7) That the procedure adopted by the Returning 
Officer resulted in the improper reception, refusal or 
rejection of votes and reception of votes which are 
void, materially affecting the result of the election. 

That if the votes are recounted and the validity 
of ballot papers is scrutinised legally and properly 
this petitioner will be found to have secured greater 
number of votes than the abovementioned respondent 
and will be found to have been duly elected to fill 
the seat in the Kandi Assembly Constituency. 

(8) That excluding the postal ballot papers this 
petitioner is recorded to have polled 20,286 votes and 
the respondent 20,297 votes and there was thus a 
difference of very small margin of votes numbering 
only 11 (eleven) between this petitioner and the 
respondent in respect of votes recorded at polling 
stations. That the observation made by the 

Returning Officer “ The margin between the 

candidates is not narrow inasmuch as there is a 

difference of 94 votes ” is not substantially 

correct, because the number of votes recorded by 
postal ballots as well as the recorded overall 
difference of 94 votes between the petitioner and the 
respondent is only a fractional percentage of the 
total number of votes polled. 

(9) That after the rejection of the prayer of 
recount and the passing of his order onjt at 
4-15 p.m. the said Returning Officer completed and 
signed the Final Result-sheet in Form 20 and there- 
after illegally declared the abovementioned respondent 
as duly elected to fill the seat in the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the 50 — Kandi Assembly 
Constituency. 

(A certified copy of the declaration of election 
to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly, 
50 — Kandi Assembly Constituency, is filed 
herewith marked as Annexure C.) 

(10) That the voting in the election for the 
50— Kandi Assembly Constituency was very close as 
between this petitioner and the respondent inasmuch 
as the respondent is recorded to have won by a very 
narrow margin of votes and that there are as se 
forth above good grounds to believe that the 
counting of the ballot papers was not in order an 
that the final figures as noted by the Returning 
Officer have been affected by miscount on his par 
and that it is therefore highly desirable to have 
recount in this case for the ends of justice. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 17, 1962 


j>a*v I-M 


85 


4 . 

( 11 ) That the abovenamed respondent fought the 
•lection in the 50— Kandi Assembly Constituency 
’ a Congress candidate with “Two bullocks with 
yoke on” as his election symbol. 

That this petitioner fought the election in the same 
Constituency as a candidate sponsored by the 
Revolutionary Socialist Party, known in abbreviation 
us R.S.P., with “Spade and Stoker” as his election 
symbol. He is also the Secretary to the Murshidabad 
District Committee of R.S.P. 

(12) That the respondent filed 4 (four) nomination 
papers one of which was proposed by Shri Madan 
Sinha, a resident of Kandi, one of the Secretaries of 
the Murshidabad District Congress Committee, and 
a prominent leader of Kandi Congress, as also the 
editor of the Weekly newspaper “Amader Patrika” 
(snsnOTil af54T) published from Kandi having 
considerable circulation in the Kandi Assembly 
Constituency. 

That the said Madan Sinha is not only a member 
of the Congress organisation in Kandi, he was as 
such very intimately and actively connected with the 
conduct of the election campaign of the respondent 
and with the carrying on propaganda in the 50— 
Kandi Assembly Constituency, for furthering the 
latter s election prospects and candidature and 
against the candidature of this petitioner and against 
Ins party, the Revolutionary Socialist Party, i.e., 
R.S.P. 

That the said Madan Sinha canvassed votes on 
behalf of the Respondent and published propaganda 
materials in favour of his candidature through the 
said Weekly paper “Amader Patrika” (^rpflPfst afff4T ) 

(13) That at page 3 of the said “Amader 
Patrika”, dated 24th Magh 1368 B.S., corresponding 
to 7th February 1962, the following publication was 
made by the aforesaid Madan Sinha with the consent 
of the respondent, viz.:— 

c*h cst# br*r =n ? 

-- oaiilH 

PI wpvft aifiT 

®1W ^MC'vSRI 8R3J «fM«I M*HC«J af^SHPt 4C4 =TT, 
cm| esnok zm *tfw •srra-ifi’T-H’s 

Sisfl l ftfCHH 'SllCoil arcs hi i 

^^<3 hiwhm ih?r site aitek srt® \a niter 

5TRT I 

4Sfi;iHte aifl^ -SRMITsH RCa 

Tsiw mc«m <TT E yf s ter *t5I4t 5c-aigR 

*TT*n 5T3IC5 I f4*^> aite' : sn®r<o ^H- 

PS13irafT 4CH HI, a3T4TfI afol 

HI I 

HnVI' Sf^stm Tp'SlH HH I tat 
MC*M 'S|»\st4a CH7M Hit I 

? W5RI5 ^ HT ‘VfTffo SfHHSHJICHH VWZB C4R 'SRHTH 

^1 

^ ^ 1,7 1 > U'®*I* W!HTH?4 C^T1> fa?T 

41 VPm W'Qlira WJofT I 

a^IM^R <3 

®RT vflSR aftsfafa ?H4'lMW4 3C3JISH nfa Wt 

™ M*'5THHT I Hf't'G HI HlWwft WTO*! 


^TTtHM«TH MWJT stk'&al MTS 4CH ta<K HI 
fH’Hlks SR '©eflfa ftsfa HRa 1 ®!^ MH41CHH 
C4R Mt aiCHH HTI «R5THIH; fH’sfltesi 

®«fT HPHl <5a41H 

•n i 

4<«T»TC4 C4H V5X$ fo* ? 

* * * 

* * * 

®TMWl*IH1H; fcPH'lfou S37H «k «IPR w’bfW 
i m *pcei Mi a<*ra«4a1 hhiih 

5 PI**f S l a^M^H I 

That the aforesaid publication constitutes an 
appeal by the said Madan Sinha with the consent of 
tlie respondent to vote for the latter and to refrain 
from voting for this petitioner by a reference to 
“National Symbols” such as the “National Flag” for 
the furtherance of the prospects of the election of 
the respondent and for prejudicially afTecting the 
election of this petitioner. As such it comes within 
the purview of “Corrupt Practices” as defined in 
section 123(3) of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 (Act 43 of f951), and is therefore sufficient 
to make the election of the respondent void. 

That the aforesaid publication is also a statement 
of fact which is false and which the said Madan 
Sinha believes to be false and does not believe to 
be true, in relation to the personal character and 
conduct of this petitioner reasonably calculated to 
prejudice the prospects of this petitioner’s election 
and comes with the purview of “Corrupt Practices” 
as defined in section 123(3) of the Representation of 
People Act, 1951 (Act 43 of 1951), and is as such 
sufficient to make the election of the respondent 
void. 

(14) That at the same page of the same paper in 
column 1 (bottom) the same person wrote under his 
own signature with the consent of the Respondent: 

IH'gTtCH 2TO«M 

(liH -'-R0 

* * * 

♦ * * 

HTVfapik faCHSHlH 3!T*efT Hit*! I 

Bfifa faem «irm k3iT mnw ctu fan fasRs 

HRJl bZvf, f«rR 5CM HT I ^IbSf HR'k 

HTHRIM siR^'G ST'tf T»ffarai» I SRR 

HRii^rn ki75 ht w, M«'<m c^nmi 

ct ^ thxt stTh kHiH aT^a^is 

farnfesR, cm chimih cmm? ^pmiwh 

v£)«R'6 ^ ?«TMTT 

a5T3f 4sfMT C«1 TO 441 M Lv »4 5T3T, 

4i*=n chtt MT«n ate Ihmt fi<u^ siTii ht^ 

ill 4is teldn ^ISI 41«rt<rfMM'I 

vsICSir'blCH 4 n f43I1CWH I ^JiaHIHI ^H*RI 
cm, ate5W«MH cm krnte ^iimth '6fr<r->nM;-Ia m m’^ih 
^H ikcsR. tnVtecHH an cm^ mh 

ifleTFHHH «3DP 5^5 'stsHHI >11^ WTHl >H4-TBK3 C4ICMH 

Hit— T h^I5CH<i mc*m w tat M4 atia^te 

teiantHi fMMTO i * * * 

* * * 

* * * 



86 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 17, 1962 


[Part ^ 


That this publication is a statement of fact, in 
relation to the personal character or conduct of this 
petitioner and his candidature, which is false and 
which the said Madan Sinha believes to be false and 
which he does not believe to be true, and has 
materially prejudiced the prospects of this petitioner’s 
election. 

That the said publication comes within the 
mischief of section 123(4) of the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951 (Act 43 of 1951). 

(15) That the persons named below whose names 
occur in the Electoral Roll for the 50 — Kandi 
Assembly Constituency as finally published were 
dead on the date of election (i.e., on 20th February 
1%2) but false votes were recorded in their names: 


They are 

Name of voters. 

Part N ». of the 

Serial No. in 

(i) 

Aaheda Bibi 

Electoral Roll. 

64 

Electoral Roll. 

68 

(2) 

Alek Bibi 

64 

69 

(3) 

Abmed Sheikh 

64 

89 

(4) 

Abeytt Bibi 

64 

113 

(6) 

Enat Sheika 

64 

171 

(«) 

Nur Hnq Sheikh 

64 

515 

(7) 

Pan oh ii Sheikh 

64 

631 

(8) 

Bilal Sheikh 

64 

601 

(») 

Mann Sheikh 

64 

710 

(10) 

Sayod Sheikh 

64 

870 

(H) 

Hayat Sheikh 

64 

941 

(12) 

Amir Sheikh 

117 

94 

(13) 

Baud Sheikh 

117 

325 

(14) 

Anima Mukherjee 

55 

7 

(16) 

Anwar Shoikh 

108 

-• 


and many others. 


That the result of the election in so far as it 
concerns the respondent as the returned candidate 
has also been materially affected by. the reception of 
many other votes which were void under the 
Representation of the People Act, 1950 (Act 43 of 

1950) , Representation of the People Act, 1951 (Act 
43 of 1951), and Rules and Orders made thereunder. 

(16) That this petitioner begs to submit that the 
non-compliance with the provisions of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 (Act 43 of 

1951) , and Rules and Orders made thereunder, as 
set forth above, has materially affected the result of 
the election and has rendered the declaration made 
by the Returning Officer on 27th February 1962 
regarding the election of the respondent to fill the 
seat from Kandi Assembly Constituency illegal and 
void. 

(17) That this petitioner is enclosing herewith a 
Government Treasury Receipt showing that the 
deposit of Rs. 2,000 (Rupees two thousand only) has 
been duly made on 6th April 1962 by the petitioner 
in the Murshidabad Government Treasury, situated 
in Berhampore, in the district of Murshidabad, in 
favour of the Election Commission as security for 
costs of this petition. 


(18) That this petitioner is filing herewith a 
affidavit in support of the allegations of “Corrup, 
Practices” and the particulars thereof as required by 
the proviso to section 83(1) of the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951 (Act 43 of 1951). 

(19) That this petitioner submits herewith t Wo 
copies of this petition, one copy for the respondent 
as there is only one respondent mentioned in the 
petition and another copy for the use of the Election 
Commission, all attested by this petitioner under his 
own signature to be true copies of this petition. 

(20) That in view of the facts and circumstances 
stated above this petitioner humbly prays for- 

(i) appointing an Election Tribunal for hearing 

of this petition; 

(ii) fresh scrutiny and recounting of all ballot 

papers in accordance with the provisions of 
the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961; 

(iii) a declaration that the election of the above- 

named respondent is void; 

(iv) a further declaration that this petitioner has 

been duly elected as a member of the Wesi 
Bengal Legislative Assembly from 50 Kandi 
Assembly Constituency at the election held 
in February 1962; 

(v) order of costs of the hearing of this petition 

against the respondent in favour of this 
petitioner; 

(vi) An order by the Election Commission and 

or by the Election Tribunal for the 
preservation of the packets of unused ballot 
papers for the election held in 50 Kandi 
Assembly Constituency in February 1%-. 
the packets of used ballot papers for the 
same Constituency whether valid, tendered 
or rejected, and all other papers connected 
with the said election in safe custod\ 
pending the final decision of this petition; 

(vii) such further and other orders as may be 

deemed necessary for the ends of justice in 
this case. 


And this petitioner, as in duty bound, shall evei 
pray. 


Verification 

I, Amalendra Lai Roy, the petitioner, residing a 
R.S.P. office, Kandi, post office and pohce-statioi 
Kandi, district Murshidabad, West Bengal, do neie 
declare that the statements contained in paragrap 
1, 2, 3, 5, 9, 11, 12, 17, 18, 19 are true to «. 

knowledge and those in paragraph 15 are true tc 
information and those in paragraphs 4, 6, 7 , «. 
13, 14, 16 are true to my belief and those tn P 
graph 20 are my submissions. I sign and verl,v 
on April 9, 1962, at Kandi, police-station and 
office Kandi, district Murshidabad, West Benf, 

AMALENDRA LAL ROY 


The 9th April 1962. 


gistttvd No. C207 



(Halmtta 





(6a*rttr 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 17, 1962 


[Part \\ 


pay to specially qnalifird and experienced eandnlate. 

years and below. Quallficatioflfi ElMnllBli 0| 

A Medical qualification included in the First or Swona 
Schedule or Tart II of Third Schedule (other than licen- 
tiate qualification) to the Indian Mediea Council Act, 
1U56. I Poi sons possessing qualifications included in lait n 
ot Third Schedule should also fulfil the conditions relating 
to registration] specified in section 1‘1(3) “ le A , 

(n) Training in Leprosy work. (iii) About two years 
experience as House Surgeon or in private practice or in 
public health. 


4 One Lecturer (Geography), Training 8hlp “Uuflerin , 
Bombay, Minietry of Transport and Communication*, 
(Department of Transport). Post permanent and reserved 
t. ir Scheduled Tribes candidate; if no such suitable candi- 
date available, will be treated as unreserved. Pay: — 
Kn 350—20 150-2.5 -575. (Messing allowance at Rs. 40 

per month while in duty). Higher initial pay to specially 
qualified and experienced candidate. Age: -3.> years and 
below, tor all including Government servants. Qualifica- 
tions: Easontiat: (i) Second (‘lass Master’s Degree or 
equivalent Honours Degree in Geography (Oceanogi aph v ) 
oi a recognised university. (ii) Degree or Diploma *n 
Education. (iii) About three yearo’ teaching experience i»i 
a recognised University /Col lege /Secondary School and/or 
training institution. 


r, One Bacteriologist, Central Drugs Laboratory, Cal- 
cutta Ministry of Health. Post permanent, and reserved 
for Scheduled Tribes/ Castes candidate; if no such suitable 
candidate available, will be treated as unreserved. Pay. 
Rs. (MR) -40- 1,000 — 1.000 1,050 — 1.050 — 1,100 — 1,100 — 

1,150 (subject to revision in the light of Pay Commission’s 
recommendations) . Private practice oi any kind will not 
be allowed. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. Age:— 35 years and below. Quali- 
fications: Essential: <i) Degree in Medicine of a lecog- 
nised University, with special training in Bacteriology. 
Immunology or Microbiology; OR Post-graduate Degree in 
Microbiology of a recognised University, with some original 
published papers. (ii) About five years’ practical experi- 
ence ol testing oi bacteriological proudets in a manut Ma- 
turing, research or analytical laboratory. (iii) Experience 
of conducting research in Bacteriology / Immunology ■' 
Microbiology. 


0. One Lecturer In Physiology, Mauiana Azad Medical 
College, New Delhi, Delhi Administration. Post temporary 
but likely to be retained on permanent basis. Pay: 
Its. 53U^-3(> — <>50 plus non-practising allowance of 25 per 
cent of pay subject to a minimum of Its. 150 per mottih. 
Private practice of any kind will not be allowed. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced Candida L . 
Age:- — 45 years *and below. Qualifications: Essential: — 
(i) A Medical qualification included in the First or Second 
Schedule or Part T1 ot r l*hird Schedule to the Indian 
Medical Council Act, 1050. (ii) Post -grauate /Research 
Degree or Diploma in Physiology, e.g,, M.Se., Pli.D., D.Sc., 
M.D., or equivalent Diploma. (iii) About three years’ 
teaching experience as Demonstrator/ Registrar /Tutor in 
Physiology or an equivalent post in the Medical College/ 
Hospital. 


7. One Plant Pathologist at the Central Rice Research 
Institute, Ministry of Food and Agriculture. Post tem- 
porary hu.t likely to continue. Pay: Rs. 7(H)— 50— 1,25U 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experience! 
candidate. Age:— 45 years and below. Qualifications: 
Essential: (i) Master’s or «quivalent degree in Botany o: 
Agriculture with post-graduaU training iii Plant Rathologv 
of recognised University (or) Associateship ot l.A.R.I. in 
Mycology and Plant Pathology. (ii) About seven \<ats’ 
experience in research relating to plant diseases *\ith 
special reference to blast disease ol rice as evidenced b\ 
published papers. 


8 . Deputy Director (Industrial Co-operatives), Ministry 
of Commerce and Industry. Post t< mpornry, but. likely to 
continue. Other things being equal. Scheduled Tribes’ 
Castes candidate will be pielerred. Pay:— Rs. 700 40 — 

1,100 — 50/2 — 1,250. Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
and experienced candidate. Age: — 4,5 years ami below . 
Qualifications: Essential: - (n Degree of recognised univer- 
sity. (ii) About five yen is* experience in a respon oble 
capacity in industries and/or co-opct at ion work, including 
about two years in industrial co-operation, either in a <o 
operative organisation or a coinmeicial firm of repute or 
in Government /semi-Government organisation. 


9 6 Project Evaluation Officers one each for arw 

speaking (a) Hindi, (b) Kashmiri, (c) Marathi, (d) Ony 
(e) Tamil and (f) Kanarese), In the Programme Evaluatu 
Organisation, Planning Commission, Posts temporary, \ ){ 
likelv to continue indefinitely. One of the posis m>h, 
for Scheduled Castes and another for Scheduled Tut* 
candidates, if such suitable candidates available, 
all the posts treated as unreserved. Pay: Its. -loo jm, 
450- -30 — (500 -35 — 070 K.B.- :15 950. Highei iiut|.,| 

to specially qualified and experienced candidates Agt 
35 years and below. Qualifications: Essential:- (,) \iasie, 
degree in Economics, Agricultural Economics, Sueu,| 0}/ 
Social Psychology or Anthropology of a recognised m m ^ 
sity or equivalent qualifications. (ii) About three veai 
< xperience ot participation in socio economic investig.it », 
and/or ot research in socio-economic problems, incli 1( j il 
field survey in rural areas. (iii) Knowledge u| ; j 

i egional language ot the area concerned. 

10. One Pathologist, Civil Hospital, Imphal, Ministry 
Health. Post temporary but likely to continue on | u , 
t **i in basis. Post reserved lor Scheduled Custes/Tni] 
candidate; il no such suit abb* candidate available, will 
treated as unreserved. Pay: -Rs. 400— 4(H)- (50- 

- 35 070 -E.B. — 35-- 950 plus non-practising allowum, 
25 per cent, oi pay, subject to a imnimum ol Hs 15o t 
month. Private practice of any kind will not be nllout 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and expennir 
candidate. Ago: 35 years and below. Quallfioatior 
Essential— (i) A Medical qualification (other than licciiti.i 
qualification, imlmled in the Fir ;t or Second Schedulr 
Part 11 ol 'Third Schedule to the Indian Medical Coim 
\ct. 1950. [Persons possessing qualifications included 
Part 11 of Third Schedule Humid also iulfil the conditu 
i dating to Registration ipecified in section 13(11; oi 
Act.) (ii) Post-graduate qualification in Pathology * 
M.D. with Pathology as a special subject or 1>( 
(m) About five years’ practical experience in a )»:i t iiolo^i 
laboratory oi in a Pathological Department oi a ui 
Hospital. 

11. One Senior Research Officer, Forest Research im 

tute and College, Dehra Dun, Ministry of Food and A{ 
culture. Post permanent. Candidates vvlio have :i It . . 
applied in response t o the ( -onimission’s advet I ishu 
N o. 22 dated 3id .June 1901 tor the above post need 
apply again and they will he cnnsideicd tor the post, on 
tia^is of their earlier applications. Pay: Rs. 11M) 111 

-I >0 30- -000—35- — 070 E.B — 35 950. Higher imti.il 

to specially qualified and experienced candidate. a Age: 
years and below. Qualifications: Essential (u'Pe^iu 
diploma in Civil Engineering of leeogmsod I’nivcrsn 
Institution. (ii) Adequate cxpcricne<‘ m designing tun 
structures 


12. Technical Assistant (Advertising) In the Director 
of Advertising and Visual Publicity, Ministry of Infori 
tion and Broadcasting. Post icnmornrv, but likelv t<> < 
tmue. Post reserved lor Selu*duh*d Castes < aiidnliiif 
such suitable candidate available: otherwise to he 1 
as unreserved. Pay: — Its. 325 15— 175 K 11 -9 ■ 

Higher initial pay to specially qualified and expci icn 
candidate. Age: — 35 ycais and below. Quallficatlo 

Essential: --(i) Degree ol a recognised I iiivhs 

(n) About three years’ experience m an Advcitis 
Agency or the Adv ei tisement Department ol a m 
or periodical o| icpute, or comparable expendin' 11 
Government or (’oinnicrcial Oiganisation. 


13. Technical Assistant (Models) in the Dircctorat 
Advertising and Visual Publicity, Ministry of Informa 
and Broadcasting. Post temporal \ blit likelv t«» conii 
Post reserves! foi Scheduled ( ’ast is /Tribes cjmlidau 
micIi suitable candidate available; otherwise to he to- 
as unreserved. Pay: Rs. 325 15 L> F .1* 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified ami 
r.'imlidati*. Age: ;C, VOHV.S .uni M.m. Oualilicalit 
Essential: (i) Diploma in (oinnicrcial Art m /'‘MU* 

limn a recognised Institution, (ii) About I ve.os pm' 

< vj»f*ricnce in fabrication ol models in wood, no l.i l» • 
etc. in a well established model ninimlaeturin:'. 1 
display agency or a techuic.il workshop. 

(Outdoor Publicity) ' n 



wise to be treated as unreserved. Pay: 

475 — E.B. — 20 — 575. Higher initial pay to 


Paht II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 17, 1962 


221 


n ali lied and experienced candidate. Ag«: — 35 years ami 
Slow. Qualification*! Esaantiah— (i) Good general educa- 
Son (ii) About 3 years’ experience of out-door publicity 
V advertising Agency or Commercial firm of repute or 
under Government, (iii) Familiarity with details of pro- 
duction and release of out-door advertising campaigns. 

15 Three Assistant Directors (Technical), Ministry ol 
Food and Agriculture (Department of Food). Posts tern- 
^rury but likely to continue indefinitely. Out of 3 posts, 
1 reserved for Scheduled Tribes candidate if such suitable 
^mididate is available, otherwise all posts treaied 
unreserved. Pay : -Rs. 4(K) — 4(K) — 4,50 — :30 — GOO — — 670- - 
_ jj, — 35 — 950. Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
and experienced candidates. Agei — 35 years and below. 
Qualifications: Essential: -(i) Degree in Agriculture or 
Degree in Science with diploma in Food Technology or 
Master’s degree in Zoology or Bio-Chemistry or equivalent, 
(ii) About three years’ experience m storage of foodgrains 
a nd maintenance of stocks, OR in the examination, inspec- 
tion and analysis of foodgrains in a Government Depart- 
ment or a Commercial House of repute. 


Ki One Virus Pathologist, Co-ordinated Plant, Virus 
Research Scheme, Kalimpong, Ministry of Food and Agri- 
culture. Post temporary. Pay: — Rs. 40U — 40 — 800 — 50 — 
050 . Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
expeiienced candidate. Age: — 40 years and below. Quali- 
fications: Essential: — (i) Master’s degree in Botany or 
Agriculture or Associateship of l.A.R.l. in Mycology and 
Plant Pathology with specialisation in Plant Viruses, 
(ii) About three years’ research experience in problems 
lelating to virus diseases preferably in biochemical and 
biological .studies of plant virus as evidenced by published 
papei s. 


CORRIGENDUM 

IN partial modification of Commission’s advertisements 
Nos. 13 to 18 published on 31st March 7th, 14th, 21st, 
28th April and 5th May 1902. it is notified lor general 
iiilonnation that in recruitments where the uge specified is 
less than 45 years the upper age limit shall he relax able 
up (o 45 years in respect ot displaced persons from Pakis- 
tan. Commission may also remit fee in respect of 
genuinely indigent and bona fide displaced persons. 
Closing date tor only such persons, in respect of advertise- 
ment No. 13 to Hi extended to 28th May 1902. 


ENGINEERING SERVICE 8 EXAMINATION, 1962 

THE Union Public Service Commission will hold a com- 
bined competitive examination at Allahabad. Bungaloic, 
Bhopal, Bombay. Calcutta. Delhi. Hyderabad, London, 
Madras, Patna, Shillong and Trivandrum commencing on 
-0th September, 1902. for leeruituient to Indian Railway 
Service ot Engineers; Electrical Engineering, Signal Engi- 
neering and Mechanical Engineering and Transportation 
(Power) Departments of the Superior Revenue Establish- 
ment of Indian Railways; Central Engineering Service, 

* lass 1 and Class II; Central Electrical Engineering 
Service, Class I and Class II: Military Engineer Services 
\i i ^ . ( Buildings and Roads Cadre and Electrical and 
•Mechanical Cadre) ; Telegraph Engineering Service, Class 1 ; 

: .j*' (, 1 Assistant Engineer (Workshops), Class 11, Indian 
Hlnance Factories Service, Class I and Central Engineer- 
Class I. Age limits On 1st August 
p -I- 25 years for Electrical Engineering and Siguai 
-iiguieeriug Departments, and 20 — 25 years for other 
- ‘“fuoos. Upper age limit relaxable in favour of Scheduled 
astes, Scheduled Tribes, bona fide displaced persons from 
iKistan, residents of former French Settlements which 
Y now become part of India, candidates from Andaman 
hid ^ ,<0 . r I** kinds, repatriates from Ceylon who are 
f-!. 1 ? 1 } citizens end certain categories of Departmental 
Qualifications: — A degree in Engineering or a 
lent 'a A and B of A.M I.E. (India) or equiva- 

the 1 I * n,ss ,n Graduate Membership Examination ol 
a . Ustl ^ u Uon of Tele-coni m union tion Engineers (India) or 
BntM l ? Graduate Membership Examination of the 
\ (JV s V * ns bitution of R*adio Engineers, London, held after 
Meitih e £’* * acceptable for certain Services. Graduate 
e rship Examination of the British Institution of 


Radio Engineers held prior to November. 1959, also accept- 
able subject to certain conditions. Full particulars and 
application forms obtainable from Secretary, Union Public 
Service Commission, Dholpur House, D.H.Q. P.O., New 
Delhi-11, by remitting Re. 1.00 by money order or on cash 
payment at the counter. Candidates must olearly state on 
money order coupons “ Engineering Services Examination, 
September 1962” and also give their names and full postal 
addrOSSOS in block letters. Postal orders or cheques or 
currency notes will not lie aeepled in lieu ol money orders 
Completed applications must reach Union Public Service 
Commission by 2nd July, 1902 (Kith July, 19(52 in ease oi 
candidates abroad). 


INDIAN MILITARY ACADEMY EXAMINATION, 
NOVEMBER, 1962. 

THE Union Public Service Commission will hold au 
examination at Ahmedabad Allahabad, Bangalore, Bhopal. 
Bombay, Calcutta, Cuttack, Delhi, Hyderabad. Jaipur, 
Jammu, Madras, Nagpur, Patiala, Patna, Shillong uud 
Trivandrum on 13th and 14th November 19(52, for entry 
into the Indian Military Academy. Age limits i — Candi- 
dates must have been born not earlier than 2nd July 1942, 
and not later than 1st July, 1945. 'These age limits uui 
in no ease be relaxed. Qualifications: Intermediate* or 
equivalent. Applications Jrom candidates who have 
appeared or intend to appear at Inti rniediate or equivalent 
examination acceptable provisionally. Application forms 
and lull particulars obtainable fiom Secretary, Union 
Public Service Commission, Dholpur House, D.H.Q. PA). 
New Delhi-11, by remitting Be. 1.00 by money order or on 
cash payment at the counter. A candidate must clearly 
state on money order coupon ” Indian Military Academy 
Examination, November 1962” and also give his name and 
full postal address in block letters. Postal orders or 
cheques or currency notes will not be accepted in lieu ot 
money orders. Application tonus .iml connected papers uie 
ulso obtainable free from the nearest Recruiting Office, 
Military Area /Sub- Area Headquarters or National Cadet 
Corps ( nit. Only unmarried male candidates can apply for 
admission to this examination. Completed applications 
must reach the Union Puhln Scr\ ice Commission b\ 9lh 
July 1902 (23rd July 1902, ir ease ol candidates abroad.) 


CORRIGENDUM 

Three Senior Technical Assistants in the Department of 
Co-operation, Ministry of Community Development and 
Co-operation. In partial modification o| Commission’s 
advertisement No. 17 item No. 3, which appeared on 28th 
April 19(52, it is notifies] for general mlormation that 2 
posts aie permanent, and one is temporary but is likely to 
be made permanent in due course. One of the permanent 
posts is reserved for Scheduled Ca>fes and 1 lie other for 
Scheduled ’Tribes candidates, it Mich suitable candidates 
uie available; otherwise all the three posts he treated as 
unreserved. Other things remain unchanged. 


CORRIGENDUM 

Engineering Services (Electronics) Examination, 1962. 

IN paitial modification of the Commission's advertise- 
ment No 15 i elating to the Engineering Sei vices (Elec- 
tronics) Examination, 19(52. published on 1 4th April, 19b2, 
it is notified lor general mlornial ion that the upper ago 
limit shall also be iel.%xable in favoni ot displaced persons 
Loin Pakistan Fee concession also admissible. Other 
conditions leniain unchanged. 


CORRIGENDUM 

ASSISTANTS’ GRADE EXAMINATION, 1962. 

IN paitial modification of the Conumssion’s advertise- 
ment No 17 i elating to the Assistants’ Grade Examination, 
1902, published on 2Hih April, 19(12, it is notified for 
general inhumation that the upper age limit shall also be 
relaxable in favour of displaced persons from Pakistan. 
Fee concession also admissible. The examination is likely 
to commence sometime in early 19(53. f Jhe exact date will 
be announced later. 

Other conditions remain unchanged. 


222 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 17, 1962 


[Part II 


PUBLIC 8ERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


General Instruction! to candidatee applying in rasponaa to 
advartlaamanta kaauad by tha ComnUaalon for raorult- 
mant to poata of “Selection”. 


( 1 ) instruct Iona ragardlng aubmiaaion of application.-- 

Application are to bo made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor). 
Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a large self- 
addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to cover tha 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 
copies of the prescribed form may apply on anv similar 
typed (not handwritten) form showing exactly the word- 
ing and spacing of the sample form published in the 
“Calcutta Cassette” of the 1st September 1956, provided 
the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ own handwriting. 

(2) Partloulare and certlAoatea required. — Candidate! 

should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications ana 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their application*, 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character. 


The Commission accepts only the age off a candidate as 
recorded in the Matriculation or the Secondary School 
Pinal /Leaving Certificate. In the case of u l cm ale candi- 
date whose age is not recorded in the Matriculation or 
School Pinal Certificate, any of the following evidence of 
age la accepted by the Commission: — 


1 A certificate from the Head mistress of the school, 
which she last attended, showing her exact age as 
recorded in the school register. 


2. An affidavit regarding her age sworn by her father 
or mother or some other person in a positun to 
know by having been present or heard of her birth 
at the time of occurrence. 


3. A certificate regarding her age, from a Member of 
the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who must 
have known the candidate and her family .indicat- 
ing clearly the evidence on the basis of which he/ 
she satisfied himself /herself on the point. 


Fss.- Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of lie. 6 in the form of a receipted chelan 
from a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of ln<h* 
under the head “XXXV l-Miscellaneous-Receipts of the 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal . Money crd ®^f» 
cheques, etc., in lieu of treasury challans are not accented- 
Postal order, however, muy be accepted from cMWudidates. 
They should be crossed and made payable to The Secre- 
tary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal . No appli- 
cation will be considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application f®e. 


Candidates abroad may deposit their application fees 
with the High Commissioner of India or the Embaeey, a« 
the case may be. and obtain receipts for the same, which 
will hare to be attached to their applications to be sub- 
m it ted to the Commission. 


Candidates in Government service should 
before depositing fee that their applications will be 
ed by their superior officers. In no case will the fee paid 
with the application be refunded. 


The Commission may remit fee in case of ®* Iluilie 
indigent and bona tide displaced person from Pakistan. 

An indigent displaced person shell, in the first instance, 
pay the application fee prescribed tor a gazetted poet 
advertised by the Commission but if he /she is selected for 
and appears at the interview, the fee paid by him/her will 
be refunded afterwards. 

Note. “(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 

must furnish with bis application satisfactory. ^ evidence 
that he is bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, e.g, 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, w 
original. 


(li) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his appli- 
cation a certificate in original from a gazetted officer or a 
Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging to 
the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying ths 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 

(in) A displaced person seeking remission of the applies 
tion fee must furnish besides the evidence required under 
Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member off Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.” 

(4) Address. — Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 

(5) Canvassing. — Any attempt on the part of candidate! 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
tor appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
tiorsons interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will be disregarded. 

(6) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Coiyoratiou), in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


Candidates serving under Government or a local or 
Statutory Body should submit an advance copy in the pres- 
cribed form. The application fee should in such cases be 
attached to the advance copy and not to the original. The 
candidature of such applicants may not however be con 
Bidered if the original applications do not reach the Com- 
mission’s office within a fortnight from the closing date 
Unless applications in original or advance copies with 
application fees are received within the closing date, late 
applications may be rejected. 


A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 27th January 1961. 


Advertisement No. 30 

APPLICATIONS are invited from Indian ritnzens far 
the following posts:— 

(a) One Dairy Manager for the Dairy Factory at Harln- 
ghata, under the Directorate of Dairy Deve^ment anri 
Animal Husbandry, West Bengal, In the We»t Benw 
General 8ervloe. Post temporary. Pay: — Rs. , 

0 ^0 *1,350 (E.B. after 8th and 10th stages) per 
The question of granting higher initial pa.v may n , p 

sidered in the case oi a highly qualified and * 
candidate. 

Qualinoatlenti Eaaentlal— (i) A degree in Bail. V'lng^ 
special reference to dairy technology or dairy 
(ii) A post-graduate diploma or certificate <>l t a 

dairy plant management in a recognised 1(W e 

dairy factory abroad; (in) At least five yeai. 
of running a dairy factory equipped with m »* , i(|1 | l(v 

plants and machineries; (ivt Good adimiiistrati 
Desirable — (i) Experience m the installation ot 
and machines and marketing of milk and '.I'Vugr la< t.ir) 
(ii) Evidence to show capacity for managing verwW t 

staff of different categories; (m) S hould bo wnv^ 
with rules under the factories Act; (iv) So tJial) 10 

of Bengali-spoken and written. Agei — “ Candida 1 ** 
years on the 1st June 1902 relaxable lu .^f,,csubsUat^ 
otherwise well qualified and for persons bolding t u , 

appointment under a State Government or Gov.nu 
India. 

Closing data— The 11th Juno 1M2. 


pa*t n] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 17, 1962 


223 


(b) Fifteen Assistant Engineers under the Construction 

Bperdy West Bengal. Posts tem|x>rary. A panel of suit- 
h|A candidates will also be prepared tor future vacancies. 
Women unsuitable. Pay:— Rs. 325—30—475- 35—l,uH> 
(B.B. after 8th and 10th stages) per month plus other 
allowances as admissible under the rules. 

Qualification*: A degree in Civil Engineering of a recog- 
nised University or any other qualification in Civil 
Engineering exempting a candidate from appearing in 
sections A and B of the Associate Membership Exami- 
nation of the Institution of Engineers (India). Age:— Not 
more than 27 years on the 1st June, 1962. 

Closing date— The 7th June 1962. 

Age Concession 

The age limit for all the posts is relaxable by live years 
for Scheduled Castes /Tribes and up to 45 years lor dis- 
placed persons from Pakistan. 

A candidate who before 1 the 15th August 1947 wus 
detained, imprisoned, interned or ex turned on account of 
his/hei activities in connection with the country’s struggle 
lor independence, not being convicted of an offence 
Indicating moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession 
in respect of the age limit. The concession granted will 
},p equal to the exact period of detention, imprisonment, 
internment or ox tern merit suffered up to a maximum of 
lour years. 

Apply <o Secretary with a Treasury Chalan of Rs. 5 
under head “XX T — Miscellaneous — Receipts of Public 
■Service Commission, West Bengal” or a Crossed Postal 
>rdc r oj Rs. 5 payable to “Secretary, Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal”. Overseas candidates may deposit 
their application fees with the High Commission' of India 
in the Indian Embassy, as the case may bo. Particulars 
i rid prescribed application forms obtainable from the office 
of the Commission, personally - or on sending a sclf- 
iiddrossed large envelope with postage stamp of .35 nl\ 
uid the name of the post superscribed on the envelope. 
Those who intend to take application forms and/or submit 
Jie applications personally should do so between 10-15 a.m. 
ind 3-00 p.m. on full working days and between 10-15 a.m. 
uid 1 2-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 
Uipure, the 5th May 1962. 


"director of public instruction 

APPLICATIONS are invited from Indian citizens to 
orm a panel for appointment to the posts n| Librarians in 
»o\nrnnicnt Multipurpose Schools for Bovs and Girls in 
he M'u lc ■» of (i) Its. 200— 10- 400 and (i'i) Rs. 175—7 — 
I’ - ^ J25. Candidates should be prepared to serve anv- 
hero m West Bengal. 


Qualifications: Bachelor's Degree with n recognised 

-Gradual e Diploma in Librarianship (one year Course). 
'Ood knowledge in Bengali. 


not ordinarily above 25 years on 1st May 1962 
mr age limit is relaxable by 5 years for Scheduled 

IKif'K /TriUdL #• 


. im ^ »v v ■■ ■ n mi IK iUllCU 

1 U'k/ I _rihes and up to 45 years for displaced persona 
member of the Scheduled Caste /Tribe 


/Pakistan. A 

'juning age concession should furnish with his/her appli- 
i 10M ;u ’ attested cop.v of a certificate from Gazetted 
oor or M.L.A. or M.L.C. belonging to Scheduled Caste/ 
Ini* s I ,f,(, l. v ' n g ^^c particular caste to which he/she 
" Is t, . ) belong. A displaced persons claiming ago con- 
nHn' 1 . S ‘Vi f furnish with his/her application satisfactory 
p tmd ho/she is a bonnfide displaced person e.g. 
mm Pf n ° P,V of a rrf ugce registration card or a certificate 
J’ ;i 0a*ottfMl Officer or M.L.A. or M.L.C. 

hanlinj 118 a ^ car ^ v * n ^rvicc may apply through the proper 


t s ^'^Bons are to he made with a Treasury Chalan ot 
° r ^oad “XXVI- Education Miscellaneous 
>ir«J ftr °,‘ £ ( :™* Sft d J> u»tal Order of Rs. 2 payable to the 
rihf^i f n ' Unblie Instruction, West Bengal, in the pro*- 
*uh| lf . T or ™ °htainable from the office of the Director of 
itfa uT irnV }l° n ' Bengal, Writers’ Buildings. Cal- 

n '<'lope ,Son °uy ur on sending a self-addressed stamped 

11 ^ 1 );, °. f N-cmving applications in the office oi the 
"■lector js, igth June 1962. 


IN THE COURT OF THE MUN8IFF AT JAM8HEOPUR 
Money Suit No. 330 ot 1M1 

Sakti Pada Mukherjee of Sidgcrre, Jamahedpur — Plaintiff, 
versus 

(1) Sudhir Kumar Chaftopadhyay of village Gopalpur 
district Burdwan (West Bengal), 

(2) Dhurjotinnth Chaftopadhyay of village NaehanRaha, 
P.S. Bolepur, district Birbhum (West Bengal) — 
Defendants. 

WHEREAS the abovenamed plaintiff haH instituted a 
suit against the defendants for recovery o| Rs. 2,200 
(Rupees two thousand and two hundred ' only) and has 
been fixed for hearing on 2nd June 1962. 

The defendants are hereby required to appear in the 
above court on that, date to answer Die claim, failing 
which the suit will be disposed of ox parte. 

K. N. PRASAD, Muusif. 


(468—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
PURULIA 

Insolvency Case No. 1 of 1962 

In the matter ol Haul Nandi, son of late Kunja Nandi, by 
caste Kkndas Tcli. by occupation cultivator anVl 
labourer, resident ol Tola Barabagan in mouza Arra, 
P.O Arhra. P .S. and ehowki Raghunathpur, pargana 
Banchas, district Purulia— Applicant . 

THE abovenamed applicant has applied to this Court 
for being adjudged an insolvent and the Court has fixed 
the 19th day of May 1 962 for hearing the said application. 


Purulia, the 10th Mav 1962. 


| ILLEGIBLE], 

District Judge. 


(469—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, BIRBHUM 

Insolvency Case No. 3 of 1962. 

NO I ICE is hereby prieu Ifial ^lin Sast-hi Kumar Da,’'., 
S»)P of late X rising ha Murari Das, ot Paikpara, 
P.S Nalhati. C'houki Rnvnpurhaf , district Birbhum, has 
applied to this Court lot being adjudged an insolvent. The 
Dt. day ol June 1962 has been fixed tor hearing thereof. 

S. C. TALUKDAR, District Judge. 

(470- -1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
HOOGHLY 

Insolvency Case No. 5 of I960 

NOTICE is heiehv given that Sk. Delwnr Hos^aiu 
Mondal. son of lafe Sk. M.ini Mondal. of Hazijore, P.O. 
and P.S. Dhaniakhali. distrut Hooghlv, has applied to 
this court on 28th April 1 962 for final discharge and tho 
31st May 1962 has been fixed for hearing thcreoi. 


A. SYAM, District Judge. 
Chinsurah. the 7th May 1962 


(471 — l) 


224 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 17, 1962 


[Part U 


ORDER OF ADJUDICATION 

(Section 27 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, V of 1920) 

IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT 
ALIPORE 

Insolvency Application No. 1 of 1082 

PURSUANT to a petition, dated 8 th January 1962, filed 
against (1) Prafuila Kumar Biswas, (2) Amulya Kumar 
Biswas, (3) Bhagahati Biswas of 29 Biswas Nursery Lane, 
P.S. Beliaghata, debtors, and on the application of H. A. 
Weis of 22/1 Mom in pore Hoad, P.S. Ekbalporc, creditor, 
and on reading the application of the creditor and hearing 
his lawyer, it is ordered that the debtor he and the said 
debtor is hereby adjudged insolvent. 

It is further ordered that the debtor do apply for his 
discharge after April 1963. 


N. G. CHA 17DHUK1, Sub-Judge. 


Dated this 7th day of May 1962. 

(472-1) 


(Suit No. 484 of 1962) 

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
Ordinary Original Civil Jurisdiction 

Haridas Mundra 
versus 

Lodna Colliery Cn. (1920) Ltd. and others. 

TO ALL TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN 

NOTICE is hereby given under Order I Rule 8 ol the 
Code of Civil Procedure (Act V of 1908) that, this suit ha?* 
been instituted by the abovenamed plaintiff Harida.\ 
Mundra against the abovenamed delendant (1) Lodna 
Colliery Company (1920) Limited a Company incorporated 
under the Indian Companies Act, 1913, and an existing 
company under Companies Act, 1956, and having its 
registered office at No. 6, Lyons Range. Calcutta, within 
the said jurisdiction. (2) David Mitchel J affray residing 
at No. 10, Judges Court Road, Alipnre, Calcutta, outside 
the said jurisdiction and working for gain at No. 6, Lyons 
Range, Calcutta, within the said jurisdiction. (3) Charles 
Neil Rodewald, residing at No. 30, Theatre Road, Calcutta, 
within the jurisdiction and working for gain at No. (», 
Lyons Range, Calcutta, aforesaid. (4) Hazi Sir Abdul Latif 
Hazi Hazratkhan working for gain at No. 6, Lyons Range, 
Calcutta, aforesaid the 2nd. 3rd and 4th defendants for 
selves and on behalf' of all other shareholders of Tinner 
Morrison & Company (Prixate) Limited excluding the 
plaintiff ami the 10th Defendant British India Corporation 
Limited, and the 11th defendant W. H. Christie. 
(5) THirncr Morrison and Company (Private) Limited, a 
Company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 
1913. and an existing Company under the Companies Act 
1956 and having its registeied office at No. 6, Lyons Range, 
Calcutta, aforesaid. (6) Henry Josuah Silverston, residing 
at No. 4, Lord Kinha Road, and working for gain at 
No. 29, Netaji Subhas Road, both within the sa:d juris- 
diction. (7) Ardcshir Jivanji Hormasji, residing at 18A. 
Park Street, Calcutta, within the said jurisdVtion and 
working for gain at No. 6, Lyons Range, Calcutta, afore- 
said. f8) Mrs. Mary Theresa Turner, widow' and sole 
exec Rrix of the Estate John Feoffrey Turner, deceased, 
residing at No. 7, St.. Helen’s Place] in the City of 
London, United Kingdom, outside the said jurisdiction. 

(9) Hungerford Investment Trust, Limited, (Tri Voluntaiv 
Liquidation) a Company incorporated under the Laws of 
Singapore and having its registered office at N.T.S. 
Buildings, Singapore, outside the said jurisdiction. 

(10) British India Corporation Limited, a Company incor- 
porated under the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and an exist- 
ing company under the Companies Act, 1956 and having 
its registered office at Sutherland House, Kanpur, in the 
State of Uttar Pradesh, outside the said Jurisdiction. 

(11) W. H. Christie of England, present whereabouts are 
not ^ known to the plaintiff. (12) Hungerford Holdings 
Limited, a Company incorporated under the Laws of 


Singapore, having its registered office at Singapore outsi ( l e 
the said jurisdiction, for (a) Leave under Order I R u } e 
of the Code of Civil Procedure 1908; (h) (i) A declaration 

that the said two resolutions of the 1st defendant both 
dated 31st August 1961 aw inopciative and void and/or 
in any event do not hind the plaintiff and the tyu 
defendant; (ii) A permanent injunction restraining u, 
1st. 2nd, 3rd, Otli, 7th, 8th, 9th, and 12th defendants an( j 
each of them their servants agents assigns and nominal! 
in ; ombination or otherwise from allotting or taking anv 
further steps for allotment of the new shares of the l iS < 
defendant to the public pursuant to and in terms of thf 
prospectus published on 20th March 1962 a copy whereof 
is nnnexiire “B” to the plaint or otherwise; (ijj) * 
pennanent injunction directing the said defendants ami 
each of them and their servants, agents, assigns rtn( i 
nominees in combination or otherwise from giving any or 
further effect to the said two resolutions of the 1st defon 
dnnt dated the 31st August, 1961 ; (iv) A mandator] 
injunction directing the 1st defendant and its servant/, 
agents, and Board of Directors to offer to its existing 
shareholders the further issue of shares of the 1st defpn. 
dant pro rata and a mandatory injunction upon the agent] 
and directors of the 5th defendant to apply for and take 
up the shares pro rata on behalf of the 5th defendant or 
in the event, of its unwillingness to take up the shares h 
renounce tli* shares offered in favour of the plaintiff or (o 
persons of his choice so as to enable the plaintiff or th* 
said persons to take up the same; (c) If necessary a 
mandatory injunction directing the 1st. 2nd, 3rd. 6th, 7tli 
8th, 9th and 12th defendants and the agents and director ! 
of the 5th defendant, and each of them their agents 
assigns and nominees, to reconsider hv revocations or other- 
wise in a meeting of the 1st defendant- to be duly c*allc-d 
and held the two resolutions both dated 31st August 1%1 
authorising the sub-division of the shares and the issue of 
further shares of the 1st defendant and the offer to ilr 
public as hereinbefore mentioned; (d) (i) A pormanrni 
mi unci inn restraining the 2nd, 3rd, 1th, 6th, 7th, Hi h, Pth 
10th, 11 and 12th defendants and each of them’ and thi<ir 
servants agents, assigns and nominees ami the Board of 
Directors of the 5th defendant in combination or other 
wise from reorganising or further reorganising hv nltcn- 
tion or otherwise the share capital of the 5th defend iw 
Turner Morrison A' Co. (Private) Limited or any of % 
subsidiaries of the 5th defendant in any manner without 
the consent of the plaintiff and/or without consultation 
with him; (ii) A permanent, injunction directing thr said 
defendants and each of them and their servants, agents 1 
assigns and nominees in combination or otherwise not to ^ 
come to anv derision on any other question of j>o1m-\ of 
the 5th defendant or its affairs without consultation with 
the plaintiff, (iii) A permanent injunction restraining the 
said defendants and each of them and their sen in l <» 
agents, assigns and nominees in combination or otherwise 
from acting in any manner prejudicial to the right and 
interest of the plaintiff jn the 5th defendant as its shar 
holder or otherwise and to the int< icst of the 5th di-fon- 
dant as a holding company of its subsidiaries and a- 
managing agents of its managed companies; (o) Dmiia^ 1 ' 
for the loss already occasioned by reason of the cousjuraiv 
or wrongful acts complained of in the plnint jointly 
severally or jn the alternative again 3 all the defendant* 
except, the 5th defendant; (f) Damages in addition t» 
injunction against all the defendants except, the 5th dofon 
dant jointly, severally or in the alternative; (g> All 
further or other specific reliefs in appropriate foini and 
enquiries and direction to afford complete relief ns ♦he > 
justice ol the ease may require including calling ot I 
meetings of the 1st and the 5th defendants and a. direction 1 
1, 9 nn 1 Oth and 11th defendants to vote as directed l»> L 

the plaintiff or to appoint- the plaintiff as their irrevocable ! 
attorney to vote at all meetings of the 5th defendant- 
(h) Hosts. Anv one or more persons for whose benefit and = 
on whose behnll the abovenamed suit has horn institute 
mav by virtue of the above Rule, apply to this Court 
within 21 days from the date of the publication hereof, t° ■■ 
he made a party or parties to this suit, and that in rlefaiilt 
thereof the suit will be liable to he heard and determines = 
m his or their nhsenee. 

Dated this 5th day of May, 1962. 


Khaitan Co., 


S. K. BANERJEE, Master. 


Attorneys tor the Plaintiff, 

IB Old Post Office Street, Calcutta, 


>A S® W] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 17, 1962 


225 


COMPANY PETITION No. T8 OF 1962 
(Company Application 72 of 1962) 

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
Original Civil Jurisdiction 

Jn the matter of the Companies Act. 1 0oi> 
And 

In the mattei of Assam Ilardboards Ltd. 
Assam Hardboards Ltd., Petitioner. 
NOTICE 


v-rvriCE is hereby given that a petition was on the 10th 
a 1 of April 1962 presented to the High Court at Calcutta 
u the abovenamed Company to confirm the alterations of 
Memorandum of Association of the said Company 
tn on by a Special Resolution of the Company passed 
k f u Extraordinary General Meeting of the Shareholders 
|^fthe said Company held on the 20th day of December 1961 
as follows: 


“RESOLVED that the Registered Office of the Com- 
pany be transferred from the State of West Bengal to 
the State of Assam in order to run the business of the 
Company more economically and efficiently and that 
necessary modification bo made in the Memorandum of 
Association of the Company after obtaining the 
sanction of the Hon’ bio High Court to the proposed 
transfer’*. 


ITio Court has directed the said petition to be heard on 
Monday, the 11th day of June J962, before the Hon’blc 
Hich Court, Calcutta and any person interested in the 
K nid Company as creditor Shareholder or otherwise and 
desirous of opposing the making of an order for the con- 
firmation of the said alterations should appear at the time 
of the hearing by himself or by his Attorney or Advocate 
for that purpose/ A copy of the petition will be furnished 
to any such person requiring the same by the undersigned 
on payment of the prescribed charges for the name. 

Dated this 25th day of April 1962. 


Anv Creditor contributory or other person desirious of 
supporting or opposing the making ot an order on the said 
petition should send to the petitioner or its attorneys 
notice of his intention signed by him or his Advocate with 
his name and address so as to reach the petitioner or his 
Attorney not later than five days hetore the date fixed tor 
hearing" of the petition and appear at the homing tor the 
purpose m pel son or by his advocate. A copy oi the 
petition will he furnished by the undersigned to any 
Creditor or contributory on payment of the prescribed 
charges for the same. 

Anv affidavit intended to be used in opposition to the 
petition should he filed in Court and copy served on the 
petitioner or its Attorney not less than 5 days before the 
date fixed for hearing. 


DIJTT AND SEN. 
Attorneys for the petitioner. 


6, Old Post Office Street, Calcutta. 


(48o — 1) 


SATYARANJAN SEN, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 368 — 4 ) 


RAMABILAS GOSWAMF. LFj.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 369 — 4 ) 


CHHATAR SFNGH HIRAWAT, LL.B., intende to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 370 — 4 ) 


ORR, DTGNAM & CO. 
Attorneys for the petitioner, 

29 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta. 

(439—1 ) 


GOPAL CHANDRA MUKHOPADHYA Y, LL.B., intends 
to be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 371 — 4 ) 


COMPANY PETITION No. 82 OF 1962 

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
Original Jurisdiction 

In the matter of Companies Act, 1956; 

And 

|ln the maatter of sections 433 and 439 of the said Act* 

And 

In the matter of Bhur Co. Private Ltd,, a Company 
incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1913, 
Hnd having its registered Office at Burrabazar, P.O. 
Ckandernagnre, district Hooghly, West Bengal, outside 
the aforesaid jurisdiction. 

And 

* n tbo matter of R. FV>n Co., a Registered Partnership 
hrm having its Registered Office at 10/1 Elgin Road, 
Calcutta, outside the aforesaid jurisdiction and being a 
creditor of the said Company, — Petitioner. 

is hereby given that a petition for winding-up 
rntu a bovenamcd Company by the High Court- at Cul- 
t -.j a r Was °n the 10th day of April, 1962 presented to the 
firm L 01,11 k.T Messrs. R. Sen it Co., registered Partnership 
Cr P(ll t it8 0ftice at No - !0/l, Elgin Road, Calcutta, a 
Mih ° r • <1 .^ e abovenamcd Company and that the said 
4th ri« n ^ re< ‘ted to be heard before the Court on the 
n toy of June 1962. 


SHRI BIDESHI RAM, LL.B., intends to be enrolled at an 
Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 372 — 4 ) 


SHRI SASANKA SEKHAR MUKHERJEE, M.A., B.L., 
intends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court. 

( 373 — 4 ) 


iSALIL KUMAR KAR, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
»n Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 384 — 4 ) 


MR. MATIAR RAHMAN TARAFDAR-. LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 385 — 4 ) 


SHKO SHANKAR SINGH, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 


( 386 — 4 ) 


226 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 17 , 1962 


ARUPKTTMAR RAY, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(387 — 4) 


[Part i| 


BAJR'ANG PRASAD DALMIA, LL.B.. intends to h. 
rolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta Hi gh Court. **■ 


(409. 


I — 


KALIDAS BHATTACH ARY Y A , LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(388—4) 


B1MAL CHANDRA GHOSH, LL.B., intends to 
ed as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


be enroll 
(410—4 


SHRI SASANKA BHUSAN GHOSH, LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(392—4) 


^ intends to be enrolled » 
an Advocate of the Calcntta High Court. Ued 11 


(41M 


SHRI SYAMA PRASANNA RAY CHAUDHtTRY. LL.B., 
intend* to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court. 

(393 — 4) 


GIT A NATH GANGOPADHYAY, M.A., LL.B., intends h 
be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court ™ 


(413 — 4) 


JYOTTRMOY DATTA GUPTA. M.A., LL.B.. intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(402-4) 


AMALKANTI SARKAR M.A., LL.B., intends to be,, 
rolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(414-4 


RANEN MTTRA, BL.B., intends to bo enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(403—4) 


enroll^ * N A™ MA.H7MDER, B.L., intends to 1» 
enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court at, Calcntta 


(418-1) 

BISWANATH KHANDELWAL. LL.B.. intends to bo 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcntta High Court. 

(404—4) 


ANIL CHANDRA SEN, LL.B., intends 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 


to he enrolled *' 


(42G-—4) 


STJDHINDRA CHANDRA SARKAR, LL.B.. intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(406 — 4) 


— — — — GOVIND PRASAD SHARMA, LL.B., intends to b< 

enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

CHITTARANJAN DAS. LL.B.. intends to be enrolled as (427-4) 

an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(406—4) 


BISWANATH KED1A. LL B., intends to be enrolled as an ASI ?* KUMAR MITRA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(407 — 4) < 428 "“ 1 ' 


RADH A KRISHNA AQARWALA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


MONORANJAN ROY, LL.B.. intends to be enrolled as a« I 


Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 


(42M) 


(408—4) 


> a rT Hi 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 17, 1962 


227 


,*rvrAtt4YAN SlilL LL.B., intends 1 
of tbe Calcutta High Conn. 


intends to be enrolled as 


(430—1) 


I, DILIP KUMAR GHOSH, intend to be enrolled as an' 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(445 — 4) 


_ ■» caUMYENDRALAL bandyopadhyay 
S s to join as an Advocate in the Calcutta Hif 


LLB., 
igh Court. 

(431 — 4) 


AB CL HOSSA1N, LL.B., intends to be enrolled an an 
Advocate of ilie Calcutta High Court 

( 41b - -4) 


DAY \L CHANDRA BANDYOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends 
. «! vPHUKHAN, M.Com., LL.B., intends to be to b. enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta H.gh Court, 
l as an Advocate of the High Court. (447—4) 


, i v in KUMAR MTTKHOPAPHYAY, LL.B.. intends to 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(433—4) 


|([ niitti KN’DRA KUMAR MAZUMDER, intends to be 
utted as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(434— 4> 


KOI) BAR AN BHATTACHARYY A, LL.B., intends to 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(435 — 4) 


AX AH KRISHNA DAS, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(430-4) 


bpiUILLA CHANDRA MUKHERJEE, M.A., B.L., 
Ittuh to be enrolled a« an ^Advocate, of Cal. High Court. 

(437—4) 


VIRENDRA NATH SEN GUPTA, LL.B., intends to 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(438—4) 


SN'ATH MUKHOPADHYAY, M.A., LL.B., intends to 
tolled as an Advocate of tue Calcutta High Court. 

(444—4) 


RAGHUNATH PRASAD BOOBN V, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

*448-4) 


TR1LOCHAN MAHAPATRA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(449 — 4) 


SUNIL RAN JAN SARKAR, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(450-4) 


STTN1L CHANDRA MUKHERJEE, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(451-4) 


SAROJ KUMAR CHATTERJEE, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(452—4) 


S1TBRATA GUPTA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
Adrocato of the Calcutta High Court. 

(453—4) 


BALADEB MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(454-4) 


SRIMATT MANISHA STL, LL.B., in+onds to be enrollod 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(455-4) 



228 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 17, 1962 




SUNIL KUMAR CHAUDHURI, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(456-4) 


RAMAPRASAD TARAPHDAR, M.A., LL.B.. intpn , 
be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High c ** 


Court 

(47(jL 


RADHA RAMAN PAL, B.L., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(457-4) 


BIMAL BANDHU BHOWMIC, M.Com., LL B 
to be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High 

(479^ 


A JIT KUMAR CHAKRABARTI, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(458 — 1) 


SAOHIDULAL BANIK, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(459-4) 


SHRI CIIITTARANJAN TAPADAR, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(460—4) 


SRIMATI MANJITLA SEN, LL.B.. intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(464—4) 


axvuh 1 'ttUJJLASH SIRCAR, LL.B., intends * 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 



AM A L KUMAR SEN, M.A., LL.B.. intends to bo 
as an Advocate at the Calcutta High Court. 


enralli 


(4$. r H 


«AHttRlUSIIJNA SAHARA Y, LL.B., intends to 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 


(490- 


RATHTNDRA NATH CH ATTOPA DHYAY, M.Com. LL] 
intends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court 

( 491 - 


A NADI PRASANNA GHOSH, LL.B., intends to \ 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 

( 492 - 


RADHA KANTA J>E, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(473—4) 


BAS l DEB BISWAS, Lj^.B., intends to be enrolled a* 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 493 - 


SHYAM SUNDER SANG AN ARIA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(474—4) 


PRASUN KUMAR MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends 
to bo enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(475—4) 


DHIRENDRA NATH BASAK, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(476-4) 


SHRI PROTIP BEJOY PAL intends to be enrolled a< i 
Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 49-1 


SHRI AMAL KUMAR BASU, LL.B., intends to 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

^ (495 


SHRI AMARESH CHANDRA CHAKRABARTY LI 
intends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Co 

(490 


SAITRYABIK.4S BASU, LL.B.. intends to bo enroll 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. * 


SAMARENDRANATH MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B., in- , p ji 

tends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Calcutta High Court. HARIPRASAD SHARMA, LL.B., intends to be enr 

as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. ^ 

(477 — 4) 


Pabt II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 17, 1962 


229 


DINABANDHU MANDAL, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

M (499-4) 


BIMANKANTI BASU, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of tHI Calcutta High Court. 

* (500—4) 


mPKANARAYAN JAS, LL.B., intends to bo enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

8 (501 — 4) 


FINAL WINDING-UP MEETING8 OF SAKTI 
BATTERIES (P.) LTD. 

NOTICE is hereby given that final meetings of Members 
and Creditors of the company will be held at 13 /2B Russ a 
ftoad. Calcutta-26, on 25th June 1962 at 11 a.m. and 
4 p.in., respectively, where the Liquidator will lay before 
the meetings an account showing how the winding-up of 
the company has been conducted and its properties dis- 
posed of, and to decide how the books, accounts and 
documents shall be disposed of. 

A. K. DAS, Liquidator. 


NOTICE 

KNOW ALL TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN: That the 
constitution of the business styled “Messrs. Murlidhar 
Vijay Kumar & Co., 25 Burtolla Street, Calcutta” with 
a branch at Amritsar under the same name and stvlo from 
oth April 1962 is that of a firm constituting * of the 
following partners: — 

(1) Shri Murlidhar, son of Shri Kishore Chand. 

(2) Shrimati Siri Devi, wife of Shri Madan Chand. 

(3) Shri Vijay Kumar, son of Shri Rattan Chand. 

(4) Shrimati Dhapo Vati, wife of Shri Kishore Chand. 

(5) Shrimati Shanti Devi, wife of Shri Rattan Chand. 

(6) Shri Kailash Kumar, son of Shri Kishore Chand. 

(Sd.) MURLIDHAR. 

(Sd.) SIRI DEVI. 

(Sd.) VIJAY KUMAR. 

(Sd.) DHAPO VATI. 

(Sd.) SHANTI DEVI. 

(Sd.) KAILASH KUMAR. 

(487 — 1) 


Dated the 7th May 1962. 


(484—1) 


L08T 


IN THE MATTER OF THE CALCUTTA HYDRAULIC 
PRE88 COMPANY LIMITED 


(In Voluntary Liquidation) 


NOTICE is hereby given that a general meeting of the 
members of the abovenamed Company will bo held at 8 
Clive Row, Calcutta, on Monday, 11th June 1962, at 
11 a.m. for the purpose of receiving and adopting the 
accounts of the Liquidators for the period ended 19th 
March 1962. 


J. 

P. 

A. 

Calcutta, 5th May 1962. 


R. T. NIEMEYER, 

J. EGAN, 

S. MACLAREN, 

Liquidators. 

(483—1) 


THE Government Promissorv Notes Nos. CA202779 
CA 192849, CA202780 of the three per cent, conversion loan 
of 1946 for Its. 1,000 each originally standing in the name 
of Nisabati Debi and Maya Debi either of them, the 
proprietresses by whom they were never endorsed to any 
other person, having been lost, notice is hereby given that 
payment of the above notes and the interest thereupon 
have been stopped at the Public Debt Office. Rleserve Bank 
of India, Calcutta, and that, application is about to be 
made for the issue of duplicates in favour of Maya Debi 
the surviving proprietress. The public are cautioned 
against purchasing or otherwise dealing with the above- 
mentioned securities. 


MAYA DEBI, 

1/32/J Prince Golam Mohammed Road, 

Calcutta-26. 


(415—3) 


IN THE MATTER OF THE CENTRAL HYDRAULIC 
PRE88 COMPANY LIMITED 

(In Voluntary Liquidation) 

NOTICE is hereby given that a general meeting of the 
members of the abovenamed Company will be held at 8 
tuve Row, Calcutta, on Monday, 11th June 1962, at 
J M > a.m. for the purpose of receiving and adopting the 
March ^902 liquidators for the period ended 26th 

J. R. T. NIEMEYER, 

P. J. EGAN, 

A. 8. MACLAREN, 

Liquidators. 

C »lcutta, 5th May 1962. 


L08T 


THE GOVERNMENT PROMISSORY NOTE No. CA0452.W 
of the three per cent. First Development loan of 1970-75 
for Rs. 1,400 originally standing in the name of Umasa3ki 
Sen, the proprietress, by whom it was never endorsed to 
any other person, having been lost, notice is hereby given 
that payment of the above note and the interest thereupon 
have been stopped at the Public Debt Office, Reserve Bank 
of India, Calcutta, and that application is about to be 
made for the issue of duplicate in favour of the pro- 
prietress. The public are cautioned against purchasing or 
otherwise dealing with the abovementioned security. 

Signature of the Advertiser: (Sd.) Umasashi Sen. 

Residence: Village and post office Matiari, district 
Nadia. 


(482—1) 


(488—3) 


230 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 17, 1962 


LPart li 


THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF 
CALCUTTA 


Summary of the Mlnutea of tho Proceeding* of the 
U Commissioners’ 2nd (Special) and 3rd Meetings held 
on the 26th February 1082. 

VP the 2nd (Special) Meeting of the Commissioners held 
on the 20th February 19G2, the revised estimates tor 
1901-02 and the budget estimates tor 1902-03 were 
sanctioned subject to the sanction oi Government. 

I Revised estimate* for 1961-62: The revised estimate 
oi the total income for the year amounted to 
Its 14,29,88,850 - against the original estimate ot 
Its 14 11 27.073 while the revised estimate oi the total 
expenditure was Its. 13,9:1,44 050 against the ongma 
estimate of Rs. 14,38,07,424. Thus the year was expected 
to close with a surplus of Its. 30,44.800 against a surplus 
ol Rs. 2,00,249 only foreshadowed by the original 
estimates. 

II. Budget estimates Of 1962-63: The total sea-borne 
traffic likely to pass through the Port during 1902-63 was 
taken as 10,160,000 metric tonnes and the income as 
Rs 14 89,70,650. The total expenditure for the year was 
estimated at Rs. 14,87,10,240 and the year was expected to 
close with a surplus of Rs. 2,00,404. 

At the 3rd Meeting of the Commissioners held on tho 
20th February 1902, tho following business was 
transacted: — 

1 Purchase and installation of plant and machinery at 
the Kidderpore Dry Docks and King George’s Dock, Loco 
Shed and other Workshops, No. 8 Workshop and No. 14 
Berth, Kldderpore Docks— Third Five-Year Plan: The 

Commissioners sanctioned subject to the sanction ot 
Government as a charge to Capital an estimate oi Rs. lo 
lakhs for the above work. 


2. Revision of tho pay scales of Class III and Class IV 
employees In the light of the Second Pay Commissions 
reoommendations, as adopted by Government: The Com- 
missioners approved the revised scales of pay for Class III 
and Class IV employees with retrospective effect from tho 
lBt July 1969. 


3 Payment of caloutta compensatory allowance to 
dlreotly recruited Class I non-Marlne Officers of the Com- 
missloners: The Commissioners sanctioned subject w> > he 
sanction of Government, the payment of Calcutta compen- 
satory allowance to all those Class I service officers m i lie* 
non-marine services ol the Commissioners who wcie 
recruited direct after 23rd .November 1948 with effect from 
the 1st July 1959, the date of implementation of the 
Second Pay Commission’s recommendations. 

4. Continuance of the practioe of observing half holidays 
on Saturdays — Recommendation of Second Pay Commis- 
sion: The Commissioners approved the Special Committees 
recommendation to continue the existing practice ot 
observing Saturday as half working day. 

5. Adoption of pension scheme for the Commissioners 
empolyees: The Commissioners sanctioned subject to the 
sanction of Government the Chairman’s recommendation 
in the matter. 

0. Retrospective effect to the introduction of the Incen- 
tive Tonnage Scheme: The Commissioners approwd ,ho 
payment of at rears of wages consequent on the introduc- 
tion ot the Incentive Tonnage Scheme with retrospective 
effect from the 20th July 1901. 

7. Special establishment for dealing with the construc- 
tion of new craft under the Third Five-Year Plan: Tin- 
Commissioners sanctioned subject to the sanction oi 
Government the creation of certain posts on a temporary 
basis for a period of three years with effect from the 1st 
April 1902 as recommended by the Deputy Conservator. 

8. Block proposals: The Commissioners also sanctions! 
routine establishment proposals and routine proposals 
relating to execution of works, grant of leases, purchase oi 
material, remission of eharges ete. 

P. C. MITTER, Secretary. 


The 9th May 1962. 


(486—1 1 


Registered No. C207 


No. 20 of 1962 


(Ealrutta 


(Fit? 









172 SUPPLEMENT TO T1IE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 17, 1962 


Period. 


( 1 ) 

1957 January 
April 
July 

October 


1958 January 
April 
July 
October 


1959 January 
April 
July 
October 


1900 January 
April 
July 
October 


1901 January 
February 
March 
April 
May 
June 
July 
August 
September 
October 
November 
December 


1962 January 
February 


Week ending 

7.4.02 

14-4*62 

21-4-62 

28-4-62 

5-5.02 


All-India wholes*!* 

Cost of Living index — Base x November, 1950. price Index*. 




. . ^4- - - - 

Expenditure level (in Rs.) 



r~ ■ 

Base. 

1962-58. 

Convert^ 

with 

November 
1950 M 

1—100 


101—200 

A 


201—850 


All 

items. 

Food! 

All 

items. 

Food. 

r 

All 

items. 

Food. 


(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(«) 

(•> 


(8) 

l«) 

98 *4 

94*6 

97*0 

91*9 

96-2 

90-8 

107 -3 

99-4 

100*6 

98*0 

98*9 

95-6 

97-0 

98-6 

106 -5 

98 « 

106*0 

106-8 

104*1 

108 -0 

108-7 

100*7 

111*9 

103 *6 

107-6 

197-0 

105*7 

104 -0 

104-0 

102*8 

108 -9 

lot •$ 

105 -0 

101 -8 

103-1 

98*1 

101 -8 

95 -4 

106*0 

9*7 

106 -0 

108-1 

104 -4 

100 -2 

103-2 . 

9# -9 

107 *4 

9M 

109 -4 

107 -0 

107 -9 

104 -9 

100 -7 

102 *6 

114 *7 

100 *2 

111*8 

114-3 

111*2 

118-3 

109*8 

108-5 

116*2 

107 G 

103*5 

97 -2 

102 -9 

95-6 

102 -7 

94*6 

112-3 

104 0 

106 -8 

100*9 

106*1 

99 -4 

104-6 

98 -2 

111-9 

103 >6 

no -4 

108 -3 

109 -2 

106 -1 

108 -1 

104 -0 

116*6 

1*6 

114-0 

116-0 

113-0 

113 -4 

111-6 

111-0 

119-3 

li *6 


110 -4 

108 -3 

108*6 

106 -8 

107 -6 

103 -2 

118*8 

110 6 

110-5 

108*0 

108-9 

106 *2 

107-9 

103 -3 

120 *6 

1110 

114 -4 

113-9 

112-8 

111-6 

111-5 

109 -6 

124 *7 

Hr' *5 

114-4 

113 *6 

113-2 

111-8 

112 -2 

110 *4 

126 *3 

117-0 


109 -7 

105-0 

108-7 

108 -2 

108 -4 

102 *8 

126-6 

• 116-3 

110 -6 

105*1 

109-5 

104 -3 

109*0 

108 *8 

120*7 

117*3 

110 -9 

106*1 

109 *9 

104 *6 

109 *5 

108 9 

127-6 

118-1 

112-2 

108*2 

111-4 

107-2 

111-0 

106-6 

126-8 

116-6 

112-1 

107-8 

111-4 

107-0 

111*0 

106*6 

126*3 

110*0 

118-7 

110-1 

112-7 

109-1 

112*1 

108*4 

126-9 

116-8 

116-2 

114-1 

115-1 

113-2 

114*2 

112*2 

128-7 

119-2 

117-9 

110*8 

116-6 

115-7 

115-6 

114*5 

127-4 

118*0 

118-0 

110-4 

116-0 

115-2 

115-4 

118-8 

124*0 

115*4 

119-9 

119-7 

118-2 

119-2 

116-9 

110-7 

124-4 

116*2 

120-3 

120-4 

118-4 

118*4 

116-9 

110-0 

124 -3 

119 ) 

117-0 

114-6 

115-3 

112-6 

114-1 

111-1 

122-9 

113-* 


114-4 

110-1 

112-8 

108*0 

112*1 

107 *0 

123-3 

111*2 

114*3 

109-7 

112*8 

107*7 

112*1 

106*6 

124*3 

116*1 


118*0 

115-9 

116*2 

114*0 

115*1 

112*0 

123*6 

1 11-4 

118*0 

116-9 

117*1 

115*4 

116*0 

114*4 

124 6 

j 15-1 

119*9 

119*1 

117*9 

117*0 

110*6 

115*4 

123*9 

114-7 

119-8 

118-8 

117*8 

116*6 

116*4 

114*9 



120*3 

119-0 

118*3 

117*5 

116*9 

115*8 

.. 



•Revised aeries (Base t 1952.58) and the corresponding converted series. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal 
at the West Bengal Government Press, Alipore. 



MttHtrtd No. C297 



(Ealnrtta 







JYAISTHA 3 ] 


THURSDAY, MAY 24, ]962 


[ SAKA 1884 


PART IA— Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Conwni a sion , India, and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 
and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India" arc only 
republished. 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, 2nd May 1962 
NOTIFICATIONS 

No. WB/LA/44/62(13). — In pursuance of sub-rule 
p) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
r.ame of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified 
in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, 
Jn accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
Me failed to lodge any account of his election 
[expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
^qualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
hpiration of two months from the date of the said 
pension. 


Schedule 


run testing candidate 


Name of Constituency 


0 ) 

Njn Dwaraka Nath Barm, 

J Nagar-Kuthi, 

■"»<»! abazar), 

|i?? Berhampore, 
I 1 ' 1 " 1 * Murshidabad. 


( 2 ) 

... Sagardighi 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy., 
Election Commission, India. 


New Delhi, 3rd May 1962 

No. WB-LA/ 221/ 62(14).— In pursuance of sub-rule 
(5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
names of the persons shown in column 1 of the sche- 
dule below who having been contesting candidates 
for election to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly 
from the Constituency specified in the corresponding 
entries in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 
1962 have in accordance with the decision given today 
by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the 
said rule failed to lodge any accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 


Schedule 


Naim's of contesting candidates Name oi Constituency 
( 1 ) ( 2 ) 


(1) Shri Gunukar Kannakar. Saltora 

village Kcndua, 

post office Bankuh'a, 
district Bank lira. 

(2) Shri Bbabataran CJanguli, Saltora 

village Mutukboni, 

post office Bum lint ore, 
distrii t Bankova. 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy., 
Election Commission, India. 



New Delhi, 3rd May 1962 

No. WB-LA/194/62(15).— In pursuance of sub-rule 
(5) of rule S9 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
|96L the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
names of the persons shown in column 1 of the sche- 
dule below who having been contesting candidates 
for election to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly 
from the Constituency specified in the corresponding 
entries in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 
1962 have in accordance with the decision given today 
by the Elect' >n Commission under sub-rule (4) of the 
said rule filled to lodge any accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Repre'icntaiio i of the People Act, 1951, on the 
exp: ation o f two months from the date of the said 
decision. 

Schedule 

Names (•) coni* -ting candid itos Name nl Const itueney 

(I) (2) 

(1) ^'in Saiikar 1‘iu.^il («b >di. ... (Jopihulluvpur 

village Lu I it a -•ole. 

post ollict M.onUpara, 

Mi-hi.inon* 

(2) Alihuv (Imran Tudu, ... Uopiballnvpur 

v il t .i;jte Putuiu, 

p.c 4 niri.v (bruballavpiu e. 
dediict Mslnapore. 

(3) Sh • t C'h.min Singh, ... Gopiballavpur 

village Kii<)’i’;n . 

post office ! > t ’1 bindi, 

M idun pore. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy., 
Election Commission, India. 

New Delhi, 4th May 1962 

N \ WB-LA ' 197/62(19). In pursuance of sub-rule 
(5) of rule v 9 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
names of the persons shown in column 1 of the sche- 
dule below who having been contesting candidates 
for election to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly 
from the Cons'. ituenev specified in the corresponding 
entries in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 
1962 have in jee mdance with the decision given today 
bv thu Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the 
said "ule j Unit'd to lodge any accounts of their election 
evrmses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
R'n sen tat ion of the People Act, 1951. on the 
expi ation oi t\v > months from the date of the said 
decl mn. 

Schedule 

Name,- ol emit* Ming o\mlid:» t»*s Name ol Constituency 

(h (2) 

(1) Oivhmi (Imran Mutr'U, Binpur 

\dlnge Ratmivm. 

p •-* office I >i;ln«ui i . 
d'-tiift jMidn.ipntv 

(2) Shri Ni-nmi ^uen, ... Hinpur 

village Safikahhnnga, 

I K)st nffitT Belpahari, 
district Midnaporo. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Sccy., 
Election Commission, India. 


New Delhi, 5th May 1962 

No. WB-LA / 204/ 62(21).— In pursuance of sub-rule 
(5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections R U j es C 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies th* 
name of the person shown in column ] of \\^ 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified 
in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has 
in accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the sdid 
rule failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to th,> 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on rjv 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 1 
decision. 

Schedule 

Name of contesting canditlate Name oi CuustiLueuc \ 

<D (2) 

Shri Anaida Thukur, ... Purulia 

Aillnge Dinidiha. 
post. office Dinidiha. 
district Purulia. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under See. 

Election Commission, India 


New Delhi, 5th May 1962 

No. WB-LA/ 200/ 62(24). —In pursuance of sub-rub 
(5; of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
names of the persons shown in column 1 of the sche- 
dule below who having been contesting candidates 
for election to the West Bengal Legislative Ass^mblv 
from the Constituency specified in the corresponding 
entries in column 2 thereof, at the election held m 
1962 have in accordance with the decision given today] 
by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of tld 
said rule failed to lodge any accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to thj 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of ihj 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on rtj 
expiration of two months from the date of the sai-j 
decision. 

Schedule 

Names of contediug candidates Name ol ('unshtuen 1 

(1) <-> 

(1) Shri Durgn Prasad Blmiigi, ... Bahirampm 

village Bnrahassar, 

post office Barabhum, 
district Purulia. 

(2) Shri Neburan Maliato, Balaramjun 

village Bhabanipur, 

post office Bangadib, 
district Purulia. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Se: 
Election Commission, ln "‘ 



I’AttT IA] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 24, 1962 


93 




New Delhi, 7th May 1962 


New Delhi, 5th May 1962 


No. WB-LA/ 203/ 62(26).— In pursuance of sub-rule 
(5) of rule 89 Conduct of Elections Rules, 

1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
names of the persons shown in column 1 of the sche- 
dule below who having been contesting candidates 
f or election to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly 
^ om the Constituency specified in the corresponding 
Entries in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 
I%2 have in accordance with the decision given today 
h V the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the 
said rule failed to lodge any accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 


Schedule 


Nimic?. <»f contest mu rand i dates Name of Constituency 

0 ) ( 2 ) 

( n stui Bi slm u Chnran Das, ... Jaipur 

village Nadiaia, 
jio.it office Nadiara, 
district Piiriijia. 


cj) Slu i Jajneswnr Das. ... Jaipur 

village Dcshbandhu Hoad Purulia, 
j,ost. office Purulia, 
district Purulia. 


(IP Sin i Pralilad Bauri, ... Jaipur 

v 1 1 1 age M u m h 1 1 d a nga , 

JiO l t Office' P’MIlliil, 
district Puiului. 


By order, 


K. K. SETHI. Under Secy., 


Election Commission, India. 


• New Delhi, 14th May 1962 

No. WB-LA/81 / 62(27). — In pursuance of sub-rule 
(5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
name of the person show r n in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate lor the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified 
in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, 
in accordance with the decision given today by ihc 
Election Commission under sub-rule (A) of the said 
uile failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on ill ‘ 
f 'P |r ation of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 


No. WB-LA/ 249/ 62(20). --In pursuance of sub-rule 
(5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified 
i.i column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, 
in accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 


Schedule 

Nairn* ui i on test mg candidate Name ol Constituency 

(1) (2) 

Sim Balaram Saha. ... May tires war 

village and post office Samlliyajole, 
district Birhhuin. 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy., 
Election Commission, India. 


New Delhi, 5th May 1962 

No. WB-LA /62/62/(22). In pursuance of sub-rule 
(5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
name of the person shown in column 1 of ihe 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified 
ip column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, 
in accordance with the decision given today by the 
Ejection Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 


Schedule 


Schedule 

Nimiip of coiiVsting i .indidato Namr of Const it uency 

H ) ( 2 ) 

^'iliii'nuijid "dMok-it All, ... Degnnga 

■ 'linndpui , 

PiiDiihn, 

21-Paj ganns. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy., 
Election Commission, India. 


\ nil O’ ' intfsling t ;i n • 1 1 * ! .« t « Naim* ol Const it uctirv 

(1) (2) 

Sim Al -a ( liatulia Dm, ... Nabadwip 

poM ofh' r N.ibnduip 
Nadia. 

By order 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secv., 
Election Commission, India. 



94 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 24, 1962 ' 


[Part j a 


New Delhi, 5th May 1962 


New Delhi, 14th May 1962 


No. WB-LA/ 55/62(23). — In pursuance of sub-rule 
(5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified 
in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, 
in accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 

Schedule 

Naum ol contesting candidate Name of Constituency 

0 ) ( 2 ) 

Shii Yakub Ali, - - Haribar para. 

a dlage Main para, 

post office Padmanabhpur, 

(list net .M urshklahad. 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy., 
Election Commission, India. 


New Delhi, 5th May 1962 

No. WB-LA / 201 / 62(25). In pursuance of sub-rule 
(5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1%1, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
names of the persons shown in column 1 of the sche- 
dule below who having been contesting candidates 
for election to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly 
from the Constituency specified in the corresponding 
entries in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 
1962 have in accordance with the decision given today 
by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the 
said rule failed to lodge any accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 


Schedule 

Naums of contesting candidate* Name of C onsi ll uene.y 

m (2) 

(1) Shri Kadlm Banerjee, . . Arsa 

village Suisa, 

post oflicc* Kuisn, 
district I’urulia. 

(2) Dr. Nilakanltia Muhata. ... Arsa 

xillage Gandhudih, 

post office Baghmundi, 
district Pijrulm. 

(8) Shri Beni Madhnb Singh Balm, ... Arsa 
Tillage Mudali, 
post office Aludali, 
district Purulia. 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy., 
Election Commission, India. 


No. WB-LA/ 174/62(28).— In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies thj 
name of the person shown in column 1 ol the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Beng ui 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified 
ir column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 hus, 
in accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to tfv 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the- 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on th» 
expiration of two months from the date of the sain 
decision. 


Schedule 

Name of contesting candidate Name of Const ituonry 

( 1 ) ( 2 ) 

Shri Tlnnajit Kumar Das, ... ftutahata 

village Gopalpore, 
post office Tajnagar, 
district Midnaporc. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Say, 
Election Commission, India 


New Delhi, 15th May 1962 

No. WB-LA/21 /62(29). — In pursuance of sub-rub 
(5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rul*> 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies (hi 
names of the persons shown in column \ of the schr 
dule below who having been contesting candidate 
for election to the West Bengal Legislative Asscmbh 
from the Constituency specified in the corresponds, 
entries in column 2 thereof, at the election held ir 
1962 have in accordance with the decision given lodai 
by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the 
said rule failed to lodge any accounts of their oleclior 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of tlw 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the 
decision. 

Schedule 


Names of contesting candidates 


Name of Const H now". 


<D 


( 2 ) 


(1) Shri lswar Chandra Tiikey, ... Phansideua 

iiimiza Bhimram. 

post office Naxalbari, 
police-station Naxalbari, 
district Darjeeling. 

(2) Shri Tenzing Wangdi, ... Phansideua 

Wangyal Building, 

post office Ghoom, 
district Darjeeling. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Sccy- 
Election Commission, 


Re gistered No. C207 



(Ealmtta 





dferttr 


JYAISTHA 4 ] 


THURSDAY, MAY 24, 1962 


[ SAKA 1884 


PART II — Advertisements, Notices 

Proctdure regarding rending Manuscripts for publication of Advortlsomonts, Notices, etc., in the 

’'Calcutta Oazotto” (Part II). 

1 . Manuscripts should ho properly edited and cemplote In ttsolt. 

2. Manuscripts should always bo typewritten on one side et the paper. The name of signatory should be typewritten 
Mew the signature. 

3. Manuscripts Intended tor advertisement In the next Issue ol “Calcutta duetts" shall be received by Publication Sales 
Office et New Secretariat Buildings, 1 Hastings Street, Oalcutta, upte 3-30 p. m. on Friday and at Head Office at Alipore up to 
11a.m. on Saturday. 

«. All costs shall bo paid in advance and dopoaited along with the manuscripts. 

S. Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING (PUBLICATION 
SRANOH), WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS. ALIPORE. iruHLlCATIUN 

The press shall not be hold responsible tor dolay In publication ol any advertisement d ue to the non-ouservance ol the 
iMtnictions detailed above. ' 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 


Advertisement No. 20 

AIMMjH ATIONK arc* invited lor undennen turned posts 
1mm Indian citizens and persons of Indian origin migrated 
trom Pakistan with intention ol permanently settling in 
India. Subjects ot Nepal, Sikkim or State or Pondicherry, 
and persons domiciled in Una. Daman and Diu. Age limits 
rtlaxable lor Government servants except where otherwise 

specified. I ppei age limits iclaxablc by A years lor Sche- 
dule Castes and Scheduled bribes candidates and up to 
•!•> vcai* ior tlisplaced persons ironi Pakistan. No. reluxa- 
lam lor others, save in exceptional eireuinstaiiees, and 
">H in no cast* be relaxed beyond a limit ot three years. 

Qualifications reiaxable at Commission’s discretion in case 
candidates otherwise well qualified. Particulars and 
appiu-at ion tcims obtainable trom Secretary, Union Public 
,S*i\iro Commission, Post Box No. 18(>, New Delhi. 

| uiiucst lor lorms must xpeiily name ol post and should 
^ snromparned by sell -addressed unstamped envelope lor 
’•'d' povt least ol size D"x4'' indicating tlieieon name id 
1 which forms are required. (Hosing date tor 

J'Pt ol application with treasury receiot or i*ror»xid 
1 1 7 a 1 l ‘ Postal Order lor its. 7.50 nP. (1.H7 nP. for Sche- 
!!; , P a ^tes and Scheduled Trills) the 18th dune* 10(>2 
^ rlwlv 100*2 lor applicants from abroad). Commission 
H N iTiuit genuinely indigent and bona fide displaced 
L r ° ns Separate application with separate fee 

fe |IUr(, l^ tor each post. Candidates abroad may apply on 
hiper it forms are not available and deposit fee with 
4,.."' Dulian Krnbassv. If. required candidates must appear 
l^i'isoiud interview. 

Imib R .! Slir ‘ rch Assistant (Senior) In the Film institute of 
tonn 1 Mir * :gtf y of Information and Broadoastlng. Post 
Ks •Vo2 rx ^ut likely to continue indefinitely. Pays 
i 125 _ 15 — 475— E.B. — 20 — 575. Higher initial pay to 


specially qualified and experienced candidate. AgO; ,‘J() 
years and below. Qualifications: Essential - (,> Degree ol 
a n cognised lomersity. (n) Kxpcncnce ol n*feren(e/ 
documentation work. (m) Knowledge ot Uiendi and 
ability to tianslate trom French into Kuglish 

-• Ofhcer-in-charge, Abstract Services, In the Indian 
Council of Agricultural Research. Dost temporary but 
I ike l\ to continue. Othei things being.., uni. Scheduled 

Cast ex; Tube, candidate preferred. Pay: IN <1(X> 400 — 

,r, °- : * n (»70 K.B -HA 950 Higher initial pay 

to specially qualified and expericm cd candidate*. AgO: 40 
years and below. Qualifications: Essential o) At least 
Second Cla^s M.A. ol equhalent llonouis Degiee in Statis- 
tics oi Mathematics (with Statistic^). ( 1 1 ) Abonl A Near s’ 
expuieuee to applnalion ol modem statisueal tccliniqiu s 
to pioldems ol agrjeult lira I resea i eh 

•1 One Chief Biochemist, National Dairy Research 
Institute, Ministry of Food and Agriculture. Rost tern 
porarv and likely to last only lor A yt.ns Rost , ( served 
Idr S( heduled Tribes /( a ste's .amiidati i| such suitable 
candidate is a\ailable otbejuise 1 rented uniesei ved. Pay: 
Its. 1,100 ol) I.KH). Iligbei mil ml pay to specially 
((iialilied and experienced (andidaU. Age: 45 \oai\s anil 
below. Qualifications: Essential- (h Mastci * s Degree m 
Biochemistry ol lemgmscd ITuveisity /Institute or cqima- 
bmt with training in Knzy nm Bioelieinist i n (n) Abonl 10 
years’ research experience in Hww hrmisfiy with special 
releretice to Knzymes as evidenced by published papers. 

1. One Tribal Crafts Research Officer, Office of the 
Registrar General of India, Ministry ot Home Affaire. 

Post temporary. Pay: IN. .T2A-I5 17A- K.R.— *20—675. 

Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experionetd 
candidate. AgO: HI) years and belovN . Qualifications: 
Essential (j) Masters or equivalent Honours Degree ill 
Anthropology with specialisation in Social Anthropology ot 
a recognised (Tnixeisity. (ii; About, two \ears’ experience 
in cataloguing ot tribal arts and emits. 


232 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 24, 1962 


[Part jj 


6 . On* Lecturer In Geography, National Defonoe 
Academy, Kharakvatla, Ministry of Defenoe, Post tem- 
porary but likely to continue). Post reserved lor Scheduled 
Castes / Tribes candidate; if no such suitable candidate 
available, will be treated as unreserved. Pay: Rs. 400 — 
400 — 450 — 30 — 600 — 35 — 070 — E .B. — 35 — 950. Higher initial 
pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. Agil 
35 years and below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) At least 
second class Master’s or equivalent Honour’s Degree til 
Geography of a recognised University, (ii) About five 
years’ teaching experience in a recognised College or 
University. 


6 . One Assistant Silviculturist (Mensuration Offhoer) at 
the Forest Research Institute and Colleges, Ministry «f 
Food and Agriculture. Post temporary but likely to con- 
tinue. Other things being equal Scheduled Castes /Tribes 
candidate would he pret erred. Pay: Its. 7(X) — 50— 1,250. 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate. Age: 35 years and below. Qualifications: 
Essential — (i) Degree in Mathematics or Statistics of 
recognised University, (li) Degree or diploma in Forestry 
with about three years’ experience in Mensuration and 
Management problems. (Or) A Forest Ranger’s Certificate 
from a recognised Institution with at least eight years’ 
exi>erience in the preparation of yield and volume tables 
and sample plot technique. 


7. One Assistant Director, Central Emergency Relief 
Training Institute, Nagpur, Ministry of Home Affairs. 

Post temporary bill likely to continue. Pay: Rs. 020 — 30— 
K30 -35 —000. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. Age: 45 y< ars and below. Quaff** 
hoationSi Essential — (i) Degree in Medicine of a recognised 
University. ( i i ) About three years’ experience in a 
Government Hospital or Dispensary, (iii) Must have 
qualified as Instructor in First Aid and Nursing or in 
Casual t> Service from a recognised Institute. 


8 . One Assistant Examiner (Portugese), Ministry ef 
Home Affairs. Post tempoinry hut likely to continue and 
to be retained on permanent basis. Post reserved lor 
Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidate; if no such suitable 
candidate available, will he treated as unreserved. Candi- 
dates selected lor interview may also be required to .at 
lor a written test. Pay: Ils. 400- it M ) — 450 — 30 — COO — 3o— 
670 — E.ll. — 35 — 950. Higher initial pay to specially 
qualified and experienced candidate. Age: 45 years and 
below. Qualifications Essential— (i) Ourso Oompomentaro 
de Lett res (from Goa) Or Master’s Degree in Portuguese 
of a recognised University. Or Degree or Diploma in 
Portuguese language of any foreign University, (ii) Pro- 
ficiency in English. 


9 . One Assooiate Planner in the Central Regional and 
Urban Planning Organisation, Ministry of Health. Po*t 
temporary but likely to continue indefinitely. Post reserved 
for Scheduled Tribes candidate il such suitable candidate 
is available , tailing which treated n.> i< served for Scheduled 
Castes candidate il such suitable candidate* is available, 
otherwise will be treated unreserved. Pay: Rs. 700 — 40— 
1,100-— 50/2 — I 250. Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
and experienced candidate. Ago: Below 40 years. Quail* 
float font: Essential (i) Degree or Diploma in Town 
Planning from recognised University or Institute or equiva- 
lent. (ii) Degree or diploma in Architecture from recog- 
nised University or Institute or equivalent. (iii) About 5 
years’ experience in a Town Planning office in a responsible 
capacity subsequent to degree /diploma. 


PUBLIC service COMMISSION, WEST Bengal 

Qsnsral Instructions to candidates applying in resoont* . 
Advertisements issued by the Commission for .wJ 1 
fBsnt to posts of “Solution”. rocru, l 


V/ ■■■— uiii 6 auuilll*o|Uli OT OPPIlOatlOfl 

Applications are to be made on the prescribed form 
*01 be available from the office of the Public Serv.<.«Ti * 
mission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground fuS' 
A&pore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a large 
Addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to cover 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to oh* ^ 
mjmm of the prescribed form may apply on any «;«?“ 
typed (not handwritten) form showing exactly the 

spacing of the sample form published in tU.' 

‘Calcutta Gazette of the 1st .September 1966 nrotiiU 
the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ own handwriti^ 

■ . Partl0 “ lar * certificates required — Candida 

should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications .. 
previous experience together with certificates written „!! 
more than one year prior to the date of their appheatioM 
from responsible persons, testifying to their 
character. 1 

The Commission accepts only the age of a candidal* . 
recorded in the Matriculation or the Secondary SoW 
htnal/ Leaving Certduatc. In the case of a female 7,,? 
date w nose age ib not recorded in the Matriculation 0 i 
Nd.w.1 h luai Certificate, any of the following evidences 
• 8 ® f* accepted by the Commission: — 


n cerLincaie irom tno IleadmistresB of the school 
which i she last attended, showing her exact age u 

recorded m the school register. 


2. An affidavit regarding her age sworn by her '»tU 
or mother or some other person in a position m 
know by having been present or heard of her birth 
at the time of occurrence. 


8. A certificate regarding her age, from a Member «> 
the 1 legislature or a gaxettnd officer, who muit 
have known the candidate and her family indicat 
mg clearly the evidence on the basis of Which he, 
she satisfied himself /herself on the j>omt. 

(3) Fee.- Candidates must enclose with their* applies- 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 in the form of a receipted chalan 
from a Government Treasury or the Deserve Bank of India 
^; le bead “XXXV l- — Miscellaneous — Receipts o f thf 
Fubhc Service Commission, West Bengal”. Money (.rdom 
cheques, etc., in lieu ot treasury challans are not accepts! 
roatai order, however, ma> he accepted from candidate 
lhey should be crossed and made payable to ‘‘The Serrc ' 
tary, Public Service Commission, West, Bengal”. No appli 
cation will bo considered unless accompanied with tto 
requisite application fee. 


Candidates abroad may deposit their application 10 * 
with th© High Commissioner of India or the Hmhaiwj, w 
the caae may be, and obtain receipts tor the same, wlu.’b 
will have to be attached to their applications to lit* 

mittad to the Commission. 

Candidates in Government service should make ‘Ml 
before depositing fee that their applications will he loi wardj 
ed by their superior officers. In ru* case will the fee piq 
with the application be refunded. 


The Commission may remit fee in case of tfeiiui 
indigent and bona fide displaced person from Pakistan. 


AIR FORCE FLYING COLLEGE EXAMINATION, 
NOVEMBER, 1062 

CORRIGENDUM 

In partial modification of the Commission’s advertisement 
No. 18 relating to Air Force Flying College Examination, 
1962, published on 5th May 1962, it is notified for general 
information that the fee concession in favour of displaced 
persons will he admissible Other conditions remain 
unchanged. 


An indigent displaced person shall, in the first. inntaof 
pay the application fee prescribed for a gazetted p« 
advertised bv the Commission hut if he /she is selected n 
and appears at the interview, the fee paid by him/her wi 
be refunded afterwards. 

Note. — “(i) A displaced person claiming age conM“* M 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evulctf 
that he is bona fide displaced person from Pakistan. 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazettjj 
officer or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, * 
original. 



Part II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 24, 1962 


233 


/ i A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
* v, rimming age concession must furnish with bis appli- 
certificate in original from a gasetted officer or a 
»j mi*sr of Parliament or State Legislature belonging to 
^Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
[irtSular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 

i ii) A displaced person socking remission of the applies- 
J ee must iumiah besides the evidence required under 
V 01 * /j. above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
nffi’ i- or a gasetted officer or a Member of Parliament or 
, ? legislature to show that he is not in a position to 
prescribed fee.” 

( 4 ) Address. — Candidates should give their present 
A >hh A hH should communicate at once any subsequent 
ebane-' of address. 

-v Canvassing. — Any attempt on the part of candidates 
nnlist support ol 1 heir applications throngh persons ot 
ilnciire or officials of Government will disqualify them 
appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
1 ra , lT1 i interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
£ them will be disregarded. 

(6) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
temporary employment under any Government, a local 
", statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation), in 
V ( 1 . 1 w ju be rejected unless they are submitted through 
rho appointing authority of their posts or service. 

Candidates serving under Government or a local or 
statutory Body should submit an advance copy in the preB- 
, r ,l,e(l form. The application fee should in such cases be 
attached to the advance copy and not to the original. The 
candidature of such applicants may not however be con- 
idcmd if the original applications do not reach the Com- 
mission’ s office within a fortnight from the closing date, 
r nloss applications in original or advance copies with 
application fees are received within the closing date, late 
applications may be rejected. 


A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Sendee Commission, West Bengal. 

Ahnoro, the ‘27th January 1961. 


Advertisement No. 31 

MMMJO \TIONS arc invited from Indian citizens lor the 
following posts: — 

nil Ten Electrical Assistant Engineers under the 
Public Works Directorate in the West Bengal General 

Service. Posts temporary. Pay* — Rs. 325 — 30 — 475— 35 — 
I, "DO (KB after Sth aiul 16th stages) per month plus 
In mis* * rent alh/wanoe as admissible under the rules. 

Qualifications:— A degree in Electrical Engineering of a 
rivoumscd University or any other qualification in Klectri- 
<*l Kngmeenng exempting a candidate from appearing in 
Seri unis \ and B of the Associate Membership Kxamina- 
T, oii ol t fu» Institution of Engineers (India). Age: — Not 
,n ""' i hail 30 years on the 1st AugusT 1962. 

(| ) One Superintendent, Scheme for Train ing-oum- Pro- 
duction Centre for Mechanical Toy-making under the 
Wtage and Small Beale Industries Department, West 

“®nga|. Post temporary. Women unsuitable. Pay: — 
« v:> _;«) -J7 o ;|fi — 1 ,IKM> (E.B. after 8th and 10th 
pci month il possessing a degree in Engineering, 
|“tWi\um* IN. 300 -30 <KX) (E.B. after 8th and 16th 
i |M‘r month. Higher initial pay up to IN. 450 (up 

j 1 ' Ls. 175 ior an Engineering Graduate) may be allowed 
0 :U1 exceptionally qualified candidate, not in Government 
‘■"‘Movmcnt, on age basis up to 30 years. 

Qualification*! Essential— (i) Diploma in Mechanical 

‘Ninnminjr of a n»eognised Institute; (ii) At least two 
* J 41 practical experience ill the manufacture and design 
inec-hmiicBl and other toys; (iii) Ability to design and 
b«i I* ( ^’ 0K ^ or Production of various toy components. 

i "5 Ability to conduct training in the manufacture 
of and other toys and to supervise production 

thi i Age: — Ordinarily not more than 45 years on 

ist June 1962, relaxahle for a epeeiallv qualified and 
candidate. 


(c) One Assistant Director of Industries (Cottage), 
West Bengal under the Directorate of Industries, West 

Bengal. Post permanent, but the appointment will be 
made on temporary basis. Women unsuitable. Payi — 
IN. 300 30 - 900 (E.B. after 8th and 16th stages) per 

month plus house rent allowance as admissible under the 
rules. Higher initial pay up to Rs. 45U may he granted to 
a* candidate, not already m Government service, on the 
basis of qualifications or experience. 

Qualifications: Essential — (i) A second class Honours or 
Master's degree in Economics or in any Science subject. 
Or, first division in B.Com. Or, second class Master 1 * 
degree in Commerce; (it) Thorough knowledge about the 
I ositum and prospects ot Cottage and Small Scale Indus- 
tries in West Bengali; (iii) Three years’ administrative 
experience u» n well-established commercial concern or a 
Gm eminent department; (iv) Thorough knowledge about 
markets ami marketing methods of Cottage Industries in 
West Bengal and experience in organising Cottage and 
Small Scale Industries; (v) Capability oi interpreting 
intelligently economic data regarding Cottage' and Small 
Scale Industries. Desirable- (i) Thorough knowledge 
about the position and prospects of Cottage ami Small 
Scale Industries in other parts of Indiar, (ii) Practical 
experience in the technique of production in Cottage and 
Small Scale Industries. Age: — Between 3(1 and 45 years on 
the 1st January 1962. 

(d) One Vlee-Principai, College of Leather Technology, 
Calcutta. Post temporary. Pay:— Rs. 3(X) — 30—000 (E.B. 
idler 3th mid Kith stages) plus a special pay of IN. 50 
per month plus house rent allowance ns admissible under 
1 he rules. Higher initial pay up to Rs. 450 may he 
granted to a candidate, not already in Government service, 
on the basis of qualifications and experience. 

r ' Qualifications: Essential — (i) A degree in Science or in 
I et hnology , (ii) A diploma or certificate in Leather Techno- 
logy from a recognised Institute or (Tniversilx; (iii) Three 
gears’ practical experience in a reputable Commercial 
I annery Factory, Or, three y ears’ teaching experience in 
a recognised college of Leather; Technology; (iv) Adminis- 
trative experience in a responsible position in any' Institu- 
tion. Desirable — (i) M.Sc. in Applied Chemistry of Leather 
Manufacture ; (ii) Knowledge of Bengali — -spoken and 
w ritten. Ago:— Between 30 and 15 years on the 1st June 
1 962. 

(e) One Audit Officer attached to the Commerce and 
Industries Department. Government of West Bengal. Poai 

temporary at present but likelv to he made permanent in 
f he near tuture. Women unsuitable.. Pay: — IN. 300-30— 
:>()() per month plus house rent allowance as admissible 
under the rules. 

Qualifications: — (i) Membership of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in India or equivalent qualifications 
which may’ entitle a candidate to the Membership of the 
Institute on application; (ii) Two years’ exjierience in a 
public utilitv concern or in an audit office. Age Not 
more than 35 years on the 1st June 1962. 

(!) One Veterinary Officer, Himalayan Zoological Park, 
Darjeeling, in the West Bengal General Service (Education). 

Post temporary, hut likeh to he made permanent. Women 
unsuitable Pay: — Rs. 250- 15 55 1) (E.B after 8th and 
Kith stages) per month. 

Qualifications: Essential— (,) a degree or a recognised 
diploma, in Veterinary Science equivalent to n degree; (ii) 
Three years’ experience in clinical veterinary work. 
Desirable— (i) A postgraduate degree or diploma in a 
hianch oi Veterinary Science; ( ii > A degree in Science 
with Zoology as a subject, (iii) Experience <>j work in a 
Zoological Garden or a Zoological Pj>rk ; (iv) Knowledge 
of Bengali and of Hindi or Nepali. Age:— Not more than 
35 venrs on the 1st June 1962, relaxahle lor a specially 
qualified and experienced candidate. 

Age Concession 

The upper n.ge limit for all the posts is relaxahle by five 
years ior Scheduled ( ’nstes /Tribes ami up to 45 years for 
displaced persons from Pakistan. 

A candidate who before the 15th August 1947, was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle 
lor independence, not being convicted of an ‘offence indi 
eating moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession 


234 


THE CALCUTTA QAZETTE, MAY 24, 1962 


[Part g 


in respect ot the upper age limit. The concession granted 
will he equal to the exact period ot detention, imprison- 
ment, internment or ext eminent suffered up to a maximum 
of tour years. 

Apply to Secretary with a Treasury Ohalan of Rs 6 
under head “XXl — Miscellaneous — Receipts of 1 uhlic 
Service Com mi sum, West Bengal”, or a- Crossed Postal 
Order of Rs. 5 parable to “Secretary, Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal”. Overseas candidates may denosit 
their application l’ee w with the High Commission of. India 
or the Indian Enib» s > \ . ,i^ the case may he. Particulars 
and prescribed forms obtainable from the office 
of the Commission, Anderson House (ground floor), 
All pore, Calcuta-27, personally or on sending a self- 
addressed large envelope with postage stamp of 35 nP and 
the name n! the post superscribed on the envelope. Those 
who intend to take application lornjs and/or submit the 
applications persouallv should do so between 10-15 a.m. and 
.‘MX) p.tn. i/n lull working days and between 10-15 a.m. and 
12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 

Closing date The nth June 1962. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public* Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Alipore, the 9tli May 19(52. 


for independence, not being convicted of an offence 
eating moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concessit) 
in respect of the upper age limit. The concession grauu 
will be equal to the exact period of detention, imprisoj 
ment, internment or extemment suffered up to a maxima 
of lour years. 

Apply to Secretary with a Treasury Ohalan of R s 
under head “XXI — Miscellaneous — Receipts of p u ^j 

Service Commission, AVest Bengal”, or a Crossed Post 
Order o! IK i pavablo to “Secretary, Public Service Cm, 
missir/n, West Bengal”. Overseas candidates may depo 8 
their application lees with the High Commission of ] n d 
oi the Indian Embassy, as the case may be. ParticuU 
and prescribed application forms obtainable from the offii 
oi the Commission , Anderson House (ground floor 
All pc. tv, Calcuta-27, personally or on sending a 8 el 
addressed large envelope with postage stamp oi 35 rip 
the name of the post superscribed on the envelop, fhoi 
who intend to take application forms and/or submit appj 
rations personally should do so between 10-15 a.m at 
3-00 p.m. cm full working days and between 10-15 a.m. ai 
12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 

Closing date — The isth June 1962. 

A. C. ROY, Secretaiy, 

Public Service Commission, West hor*gi 

Alipore, the 12th May 1962. 


Advertisement No. 32 


APPLICATIONS are invited from Indian citizens for the 
following posts. 


(a) One Lecturer in Sanskrit In the West Bengal Junior 
Educational Service (Women’s Branoh). Post temporary. 
Men unsuitable-. Pay: — Rs. 275 15— 350--- 20 650 per 
month plus bouse rent allowance as admissible under the 
rules. Ilighci initial pnv up to Rs. 350 may be granted 
on the basis of qualifications and experience. 


Qualifications: Essential- A first class Master’s degree, 
Or, A second class Mu tor’s degree with first class Humours 
in the Bachelor’s degree. Or, A Doctorate degree with a 
first cluss Honours oi second class Master’s degree, of an 
Indian university, in Siwisknt; 

Or, 

Equivalent foreign qualifications. 

Or, 

It a candidate has otherwise a good academic record, a 
second cluss Master’s dogieo with second class Honours in 
the Bachelor’s degree, in Sanskrit, plus five yews’ teach- 
ing expei lence in a recognised college us a wholetime 
teacher in the subject The period of teaching experience 
may be relaxed at the discretion of the Commission. 

Desirable- Hood power oi expression in Bengali — spoken 
and written Age: -Not more than 35 years on the 1st 
June 19(52, lelax.ible m t lie ca.se o| specially qualified 
candidates and toi prisons bolding substantive appointment 
in the Kduealioii Department, West. Bengal. 


(h) Two Sound Mechanics under the Home (Publicity) 
Department, West Bengal. Posts temporary. Women 
unsuitable. Pay: IK 175 -7—215 8 325 per month. 

Qualifications: (I) Hood (General Education; (ii) Prac- 
tical expei leii'T o! irpamng and handling radio sets, loud- 
speakers w it h m leroplumcs and sound equipment- oi Cinema 
projectors I o i at least three years in a recognised Service 
Station. Age: Ordinarily between 25 and 35 years on the 
1st June 1962. 

Age Concession 

The upper >pe limit tor all the posts is rolaxable by five 
years for Scheduled Castes /Tribes and up to 45 years for 
displaced persons Irom Pakistan. 

A candidat.* who bet ore the 15tb August 1947, was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or ext-erned on account of 
his/her activities in connection with the country’s struggle 


RA8HTRIYA INDIAN MILITARY COLLEGE, 
DEHRA DUN 


Admission to Term commencing In January 1683 

NEXT term of the Raslitriya Indian Military t'ollej 
Debra Dun, commences in January 1963. 

The College pi ovules public school education toj lx 
who wish to obtain commissions in the Arniy..Nu\\ 
Air Eorce. ’The educational training is designed h. hri 
imys up to the standard ot the Senior Cambridge Soli 
Certificate and the qiialdving examination for entn u 
the National Defence Academy. Compulsory phv-i 
training, games and parades ensure physical fitness a 
smartness, w'hile special attention is paid to the lniparti 
ot discipline, sell reliance and social training to all <,ine 


Candidates lot admission to the next tenn 
C ollege which commences Irom January, l.m3, will jj 
to qualify at an entrance examination to be 

[’alcutta some time* in the third week ot August . 

ollowvd h\ an intei view. Candidates must have been 
not earlier than January 2, 1951, and not . ,a ^ 

1 .miliary 1 1952. No educational qualification in prescni 

tor admission to this College, hut it is expected that 
andidate should have read up to Class Vll stamla 
Secondary School. The fees are Rs. 750 per A 

iidditiouiil expenses of Rs. 100 (e.g., miitormj, ^ 

money, books, washing, etc.) The actual cosl • 
about Rs. 2,300 per annum. Two candidates belonj.!^ 
(lie Scheduled ( ’astes/Tribes, who may be admitted it 
College, mav be charged fees at reduced rates oi n * 
per annum ’ A cadet spends five to six years 
College. 

A limited iiiimlM'r <>l scholarships of Rs 1,°0<) P«r 
will be awarded to the deserving cadets aftei am* 
the College by the West Bengal Government. 

Application on the prescribed form in duplicate H< 
can be had on request from the Assistant > • ]{ en 

(Defence) Department, (Government of ^ flf 

Writers’ Buildings, Calcutta, should be suhmitte 
reach him on or before July 15, 19oz. 

Issued by the Governnient of Weet Beo®*® 



*ItT II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 24, 1962 


235 


DISTRICT HOW II AH 


COMPANY PETITION No. 80 OF 1902 


THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, HOWRAH 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
Original Jurisdiction 


Insolvency Case No. 15 of 1962 

viVriCK that an application lias been filed by 
1 \ Dale alias Mrs. A. M E. Dale, wile of Mr. D. M. 

s * * j $ Jcliapani 3rd IJ|ye Lane, Salkia, district Howrah, 
rl oh one Operator under Messis. British Paints (India) 
i ,j 32 Chowringhee Uo.nl, Calcutta, for being adjudged 
\olve ill. 'I'lie application ha-, bueu admitted and fixed 
YJi'tl, Juno RK55J for hourint. 


IDDEUIRDK. District Judge. 


In the matter of Companies Act, 1956 
And 

In the matter of section 439 of the said Acs 
And 

In the matter of Bando & Co. Ltd. 

NOTICE is hereby given that a petition for winding-up of 
the abovennnied Company by the High Court at Calcutta 
was on the 6th day of April 196‘2 presented to the said 
Court by the Union of India and the said petition is direct- 
ed to be heard by the Court on the 9th any of July 19655. 


(504— I ) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, 
BURDWAN 


Present : Sliri 1. B. Barman, M.A., LL.h. 

Insolvency Case No. 2 of 1959 

Satumarayan Mai ol Belur. police-station Ifaina, 
district Buidwan, Debtm -insolvent. 

US is to noli I v tor gencml inloi uiation that a petition 
r jmf U discharge has been filed before this Court on 
hilt ol I lie debtor-insolvent nbmeiiamed and the said 
ittur lu*!" been set down lor healing on the 2nd day of 
I ! M >L Ol as soon as theieafter as the business oi the 
, ur t wifi permit. Anybody interested in the ease may 
. „|>|eetmii, if any, by the date fixed. 


Any creditor, contributory or other persons desirous of 
supporting or opposing the making of an order on the said 
petition should semi to the petitioner or bis attorney 
notice of bis intention signed by him or by his attorney 
with his name and address, so as to reach the petitioner 
or liis attorney not later than five days before the date 
fixed for hearing of the petition and appear at the Hearihg 
lor the purpose in person or by his attorney. A copy of 
the petition will be furnished by the undersigned to any 
creditor or contributory cm payment of the prescribed 
charges for the same. 

Any affidavit intended to be used in opposition to the 
petition should be filed in Court and a copy served on the 
petitioner or his attorney not later than five days before 
the date fixed for the hearing. 

Dated this, 14th. da-}* of. May 19G2. 

! : ' S. D. PYNE, 

Attorney for the Petitioner. 

IB Old Post Office Street, 
Calcutta-1. 

(528—1) 


1. B. BAUMAN, District Judge. 


mlwuu the 71 h May 1962 


DISTRICT SANI11AL DAUB AN AS 


IN THE COURT OF THE DY,. COLLECTOR AT 
DEOGHAR 


Money Suit No. 18 of 1961 

j lh .J. N. Majuindar ol 6 lion Side Hoad, Caleuttn-19. 

HKKKAS Mad Impure Municipality has instituted a suit 
[iiiiist von lor Us. MSS. II nl\ as an ears of Taxes besides 
| l, s <■! the suit with respect to holding No. 407/421 
No. 1 1 ^ you are hereby summoned to appear in tms 
"in in person or by a pleader dulv instructed, and able 
1 .iiniut all material ipm Minns i elating to the suit or 
}| " dull be accompanied by some person able In answer 
* Mil h questions on th«* 1 1 li dav ol dune 1962. at 
w .1 m , to IU1S1UM the claim ; and as the day fixed for 
,,lr 'ipiM'iU’jinei' is appointed for the final disposal ot the 
nt. \ on must be prepared to product on that day all Lhe 
upon uiio.se evidence and all the documents upon 
h'di ,m>u intend to rely in support of your delence. 

Tak.* miti.-e that, in detanlt ol your appearance on the 
a ) l)«‘l()ieiiien tinned, the suit will be beard and determined 
1 M»ur absence. 

1 " p n under my hand and the seal of the Court, this 4th 
°> May BK52! 

B. H. K. SHARMA, Dy. Collector. 

( 505 — 1 ) 


/. S NOTICE 

8TATE BANK OF INDIA 

Calcutta*, May 11, 1962 

The following appointments , on » ihe Bank's staff ara 
hereby notified; 

Shri B. C. Patra, Staff Assistant, to act as Second 
Accountant, Burra Ita/air Branch, Calcutta*, as from 
the 3rd March 1962. 

Shri K. K. Banorjji to act a« Su|>erintendent, Branch 
Department, District . V, Calevitta Local Head Office, 
as from the 30th March 1962, vice Shri S. R. Basu. 

Shri S. Cbatterjee (3) to be Assistant-in-Charge, Bills 
Sub-Section, Aeeoiints Department, Calcutta Local 
Head Office, as from Urn 25th March 1962, vice Shri P. 
K. Mitru (1). 

Shri S. It. Basil to bo Head Assistant, Accounts 
Department, Calcutta Local Hoad Office, as from the 
12th April 1962, vice Shri B. P. Tiwari. 

Shri K. K. Deb to be Assistant-in-Cbarge, Bills Sub- 
section, Accounts Department, Calcutta Local Head 
Office, as from the 16th April 1962. vice Shri S. 
Cbatterjee (3). 

Shri R. N. Mukherieo to bo Clerk -in-Charge, Samei 
Sub-Pay Office (under Mulda Brunch), as from the 3rd 
February 1962, vice Shri B. C. Cbatterjee. 

Shri S. N. Bhattacharyva, clerk, held temporary charge 
of Bolpur Pay Office (under Burdwan Branch) from 
the 7th to the 19tb March 1962 inclusive, vice Shri B. 
N. Bhattaeharjee. 

Shri M. Das, clerk, held temporary charge of Belda 
Pay Office* (under Contai Branch) from the 11th to 
the 19th March 1962 inclusive, vice Shri M. L. 
Mukherjco. 

By order, 

B. K. KACKER. 
Secretary and Treasurer. 

( 580 - 1 ) 





inii UAUU U JL J.XX \^XX/TJJCJJL 1JU, mm «T» 17Q4> 


L^ARt U 


% 


WE8T BENGAL FINANCIAL CORPORATION 

NOTICK 

NOTICK is hereby given that the Kiglith Annual General 
Meeting of the shareholders of the West Bengal Financial 
Corporation will be held at the office of the Corporation at 
P-11 Mission How K\tensicm, 5th floor, Calcutta, on Friday, 
the 22nd .luno 1962, at 3 p.m. to transact the following 
business: — 

(1) To consider the Balance Sheet of the Corporation 
as at the 31st March 1962 and the Profit and Loss 
Account for the year ended the 31st March 1962, 
together with a Report by the Board of Directors on 
the working of the Corporation during the period and 
the* Auditors’ Report on the said Balance Sheet. 

(2) To elect an auditor duly qualified to act as an 
nudilor of companies under sub-section (1) of section 
220 oi the Companies Act, 1956, for the year ending 
3Jst March 1963 by the parties mentioned in clauses (c) 
mid (d) of sub-section (3) of section 4 of the State 
Financial Corporations Act, 1951. namely all classes 
of shareholders other than the West Bengal Govern- 
ment and l he Reserve Bank of India, vide sub-section 
(1) of suction 37 of the State Financial Corporations 
Act, 1951, in place of Messrs. S. K. Bhattaenariya & 
Co., Calcutta, who are due for retirement but are 
eligible tor re-election. 

The Slum* Hciiistcr of the Corporation will lemain 
closed irom the 1st dune 1962 to the 22nd June 1962, 
both days inelusiw*. 

Calcutta, the 1 1th May 1962. 

By order of the Board, 

M. K. ADHIKARI, 
Managing Director. 

(531 — 1) 


JYOT1RMOY DATTA GUPTA, M.A., TXB., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(402—4) 


RANEN MTTR'A, IX. B., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(403—4) 


BAJRANG PRASAD DALMIA, LL.B., intends to be 
rolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. e * 

(409- — 4) 


BIMAL CHANDRA GHOSH, LL.B., intends to be enroll 
ed as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. u 

(410 — 4^ 


MOHAN LAL VARMA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled* 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. ai 

(412 — 4) 


GITANATH G ANGOPADHYAY, M.A., LL.B., intends tr 
he enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 

(413-4) 


AMALKANTI SARKAR, M.A., LL.B., intends to be en- 
rolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(414-4) 


SATYENDRA NATH MAJBMDER, B.L., intends to b« 
enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court at Calcutta. 

(416 — 4) 


BTSWANATIf K IT A NDELW A L , LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(404—4) 


StIDHINDRA CHANDRA SARKAR, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(405—4) 


CHITTARANJ AN DAS, IX. B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(406—4) 


BISWANATH KEDTA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(407 — 4) 


ANIL CHANDRA SEN, LL.B., intends to he enrolled a*- 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(426-4) 


GOVIND PRASAD SHARMA, LL.B., intends to bo 
enrolled us an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(427 — 4) 


ASIM KUMAR MITRA, LL.B. ? intends to be enrolled ^ 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(428-4) 


HADHAKR1SHNA AGARWALA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(408 — 4) 


MONORANJAN ROY, LL.B., intends to be enrolled aD 
Advocate, Calcutta High Court, 

(429—4) 


>a*t HI 


THE CAliCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 24, 1362 


237 


..miTNARAYAN SliK, LL.B., intends to be enrolled ns 
* Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


I. DILIP KUMAR GHOSH, intend to be enrolled as an 
Advocate ot tho Calcutta High Court. 

(445-4) 


ABUL HOSSATN, LL.B., intends in. ho on rolled ns an 
-iinf UM YENPR ALAL BANDYOPAPHYAY, LLB Advocate of I ho Calcutta High Court 

Intends Vo join as an Advocate iu the Calcutta High Court. (410-4) 

(431-4) 


\0Tl SAOHUKHAN. M.Com., LL.B., intends 
ilniitted as an Advocate of the High Court. 


to be 
(432—4) 


PAYAL CHANPRA BANDYOPAPHYAY, LL.B., intend# 
to be enrolled as an Advocale of the Calcutta High Court. 

(447-4) 


irvNVB KUMAR MUKHOPAPHYAY, LL.B., intends to 
^enrolled ns an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(433-4) 


RAGHUNATH PRASAD BOO BN LL.B., intends to be 

enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(448—4) 


jlM DH1RENDRA KUMAR MAZUMDER intends 1o be 
imitted as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(434—4) 


RODHARAN BH ATTAC tl A RYY A , LL.B., intends to 
enrolled as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(435—4) 


IANAB KRISHNA PAS, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(436—4) 


APHITLLA CHANDRA MUKHERJEE, M.A., B.L., 
to he enrolled as an Advocate, of Cal. High Court. 

(437—4) 


ft} N1RENDRA NATH SEN GUPTA, LL.B., intends to 
Ue(1 as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(438—4) 


TRILOCHAN MAHAPATRA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(449-4) 


SUNIL RAN.JAN SARKAR, LL.B., intends to he enrolled 
as all Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 

(450—4) 


SUNIL CHANDRA MUKHERJEE, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(451-4) 


KARO.T KUMAR CHATTERJEE, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(452-4) 


SIJBRATA GUPTA, LL.B., intends to ho enrolled as on 
Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(453—4) 


BALADEB MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 454 — 4 ) 


MUKHOPADHYAY, M.A., LL.B., intends to 

Uw at an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. SRIMATI MANISHA SIL, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 

as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


238 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 24, 1962 


[Part u 


be 


SI. Nlli KLMiB <IH»UDHOTI ,,JJ.J, 
enrolled as an Advocate oi the Calcutta xiigu 

(456-4) 


HAMAPRASAD 
be enrolled as an 


TARAPHDAR, M.A., LL.B., intends to 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(478 — 


RADII A RAMAN PAD, R-L., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 




BIMAL BANDHU BHOWMIC, M.Com., LL.B. intend, 
to be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta Hitfh Couit, 


A, (IT KUMAR CHAKRABART1, LL. .B., ^intends i^to be 


enrolled ns .m 


Advocate otthe Calcutta ’ High Court. 

(458—1) 


«»f'Him!liAb BAN1K, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Cour . (459—4) 


sus-jm ifiisa K • “ - h ‘ 

(460—4) 


SRI M ATI MAN. ICC A SKN, CD B intenda to be enrolled 
as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High - . ( 4 , 34 — 43 


RADII A KANTA DK, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta Hig ' om • 


(473—D 


ARl'N l’lt OK ASH SlltCAR. LB.B., intends to bo 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court.. 


(480 — H 


AMAL Kl’MAR SKN, M.A., LL.B.. intends to bo eniollw 
as an Advocate at the Calcutta High Court. 

(48!)- ■!; 


HARKKRJSHNA SAHARAY, LL.B., intends to 
enrolled as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court 


<490-4 


RATH1NDH A NATH CH ATTOPADHYA Y, M.Cuin., IX B 
intends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. 11, gb Court 


(-191 1 


ANAD1 PRASANNA GHOSH, IiL.B., intends to I 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Couit. 

(lie- 1 


BASH DEll BISWAS, LL.B.. intends to be enrol Icil as a 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. (w;! _ 


(474—4) 




(475-4) 




SHIM PROTIP BEJOY PAL intends to he enrollisl as 
Advocate ot Calcutta High Court. 


SHKl AMAL KUMAR BASU, LL B. intends t.. 

enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Gout 




SHR1 AMARESH (JHANDRA CHAKBABARIV 
intends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. lUgti 

(496— 


(476-4) SAURYAUIKAS BASU, LL.B intends to 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High C ourt. 


be enrolled 
(497- 


be enrol 


riswii &&& zTxxs.’svn&z- hsks- v 


«T II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 24, 1962 


239 


^ABANHHC MANUAL, LL.B., intends to l)o enrolled 
aJ1 Advocate of the CalcuMn High Court. 

(499 1 ) 


JANKANTI BASH, LIj.B., intends to 1)0 < moiled as aa 
ut*i, t «* *4 the (Calcutta High Couil. 

(500 4) 


IRANAKAA AN JAK, LL.II., intend , (u I > miolJed as 
■\dvcK*»itc* oi Hie Calcutta llndi Court. 

(501- l) 


VARDAS BACK -HT, 14j.B m intends to he enrolled :v; 
Adujcaio oi the Calcutta High Com ! 

( 5» )7 I) 


1 IN DR A NATII PAUL, LL B. mlend- t„ | M < minlled 
m Advocate of tho Cali nlta High ( 'tun I 

(AOS- 1) 


Rt BISW AN \TI I CIIATVOB U, LI, 15 , intends in be 
iillod as an AiLixatt ol ( *.» Inil t a llieli CVnit 

(509-1) 


l$IHHt;TI PRASAD MODI. LL.B . intends to ho onrollod 
as an Advocate of tho Calcutta High Court. 

(51.V-4) 


\ It I PKXDR AN ATII CH Al’DHUR I, LL.B., intends to he 
t-umllcd as an Advocate < >1 the Calcutta High Court 

(510 — 4 ) 


DLBKNDBAAIOHAN MI KHOPADHYAV, LLB., intends 
to )»< enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(51 7 - 4 ; 


DllilP K CM Alt WITH A. LL.B., inlmds to be enrolled as 
an Ad\ orate ot the Cuh*uttu High Court. 

(518-1) 


N'^OK KCMAB HOB, LL B.. intends to he enrolled as an 
Advoeat * ol tin* Calcuttu High Court. 

(519-4) 


\ M I \ A BANDHH SINHA, LL.B., intends to he enrolled 
a^ an *\dv orate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(520 — 1) 


VA1I>\*\\ \TH \ MCTHIN AMI LLB, uihnd t.» is 

oiled .is u it A<l\oeat« ol i he Cd-Ulta Hi'di Coin I 

(510 — 1 ) 


hfMl (41 A VLB A DKB. LL.B.. mlend- in he enrolled 
:,M Advocate ol I he Cuhuttu High (’ouit 

(511 n 


PHAN fJOITR SARK.ii: LL.B, inlfiid In (.» 
r "" , ‘ l :K an Ad\ oral e ot tin Cut int-i Jiodi ( null 

(512 I) 


^AL GHATAK. LL.B., intend 1 - lo lx* cniolled as an 
at< ‘ ol tin* Calcutta High Court. 

(515-4) 


l MAITHA, LLB. intends to la 1 eniolled as 

wate oi the Calcutta High Court. 


1 II \B KNDB \ KISHOB'K CH ATTOPADHYAY, LL.B., 

ill I fill! , to he enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. Hjgli Court. 

(521 4) 


\ LOKKN ATH MUKHKBJEK, Pleader, intends to he on- 
i ‘>1 led as an Advocate in the Calcutta Bar Council. 

(522-4) 


I XPIADBANABAVAN KAY ( HOVVDHHB V, LL.B., 
intend to he enrolled in an Advocate Cal High Coinl. 

(525—4) 


B \ < I ' I ) K B S1L, LL.B.. intends to be enrolled as an 
Aihoi-.ito, Ciihulta High Court. 

(524—4) 


SHBH ASK.HMAR PAL. LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an \dvocate of the Calcutta High Court 


(514—4 ; 


(552 — 4) 


240 


THE CALCUTTA QAZETTE, MAY 24, 1962 


[Part i| 


MUKTINATH MUKHOPADHYAY. LL.B., intends to be 
enroUed ss an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(533-4) 


SHRI B1MAL BANDHU BHADUR'I, M.A. (Com ) Ll.j 
intends to be enrolled as an Advocate of Cal. High Co® 

( 544 - 


D1PAK KUMAR RAY, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


if.O A A \ 


SACH1NDRA KUMAR GHOSH. LL.B., intend* to 
eurolled as an Advocate of the (Calcutta High Court. 


be 


( 635 — 4 ) 


GllllDIlARI KUNDU, M.Com., LL.B., intends to fa« , 
rolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(545- 


GIRIDHAR'I LALL SHARMA, LL.B., intends to b, , 
rolled us an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(546— 


DW1JENDRA LAL LASKAR, LL.B., intends to lie 
rolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(547- 


RAM ADHAR 
an Advocate of 


MISHRA LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
the Calcutta High Court. 

( 536 — 4 ) 


AN 1 MESH DAS, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(548- 


SHRI DURGA PADA OUHA, LL.B. intends to be enroll- 
ed as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 537 — 4 ) 


G A JEN 1)R A NATH CH AKRAVARTY, LL.B., intend 
he eurolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Coui 

(549 


SHRI SAMAR KUMAR BANERJKE LLB intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate ot Calcutta High Court. 


SHRI SUNIL RANJAN BA NF.RJ EE, LL.B. intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 


SHRI KART1CK CHANDRA 1HJTT, LL.B . intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate ot Calcutta High Court. 


SHRI N1RMAL KUMAR SAHA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 


fKAl 4\ 


SHRI TARA PADA DIJTTA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
a* an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 542 — 4 ) 


SHRI BIMAL RANJAN ROYCHOWDHURI intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(543—4) 


THE C0MMI8SI0NER8 FOR THE PORT OF CALCU 
Extension of the rent-free time for damaged oases of 

NOTIFICATION No. 295 

IT is hereby notified under the provisions of sub-section 
of section i()7 of the Calcutta Port Act, 1890 (Jlenga] 
III o i 1 890) , that the following further alterations h 
Schedule of Charges contained in notification No 
dated the 2nd February 1946. to take effect from tu 
J ii lie 1902 have been approved by the Central Govern! 
namely — 

In the said Schedule — In Section G — Rent A — lrapc 

In sub-paragraph (ii) after the words “wino god 
insert the words “provided that m fas 
damaged cases ol wines removal instruction 
filed within the free time as computed unde 
above’ ’ . 

The 10th May 1902. 

By order of the Commissioi 
P. C. MITTER, 
Secretary. 


NOTICE 

NOTICE is hereby given that the partnership 
subsisting between Mihir Chatterjee and Nl adan 
Sarkar under a Deed of Partnership, dated 0th IN‘> V 
1961, and carrying on business under the name ami » 
McKinon McMohon & Co. at No. C/1 Lindsay ht red 
cutta, has been dissolved with effect from 1st April 

Dated Calcutta, the 18th day of April 1902. 

MIHIR CHATTERJEE, 

M ASIAN MOHAN SARKAR, P« 

(5 


Part II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 24 , 1962 


241 


NOTICE 

i STANDARD STATIONERY MANUFACTURERS 
" LIMITED 

(IN VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION) 

mFASE TAKE NOTICE that a General Meeting of the 
Poinnany will be held on Saturday, the 9th day of June 
1902 at 4 p.m. at No. 13/1, College Square, Calcutta, 
tinder the provisions of section 209G of the Indian Com- 
panies Act, 1913. 

Calcutta, the 10th May 1962. ^ R DEy 

T. BANEEJI, 
Joint Liquidators. 

(525 — 1) 


LOST 

THE GOVERNMENT PROMISSORY NOTE No. CA045238 
of the three per cent. First Development loan of 1970-75 
ior Rs. 1,400 originally standing in the name of Umasashi 
Sen, tho proprietress, by whom it was never endorsed to 
any other person, having been lost, notice is hereby given 
that paymont of the above note and the interest thereupon 
have been stopped at the Public Debt Office, Reserve Bank 
of India, Calcutta, and that application is about to be 
made for the issue of duplicate in favour of the pro- 
prietress. The public are cautioned against purchasing or 
otherwise dealing with the abovementioned security. 

Signature of the Advertiser: (Sd.) Umasashi Sen. 

Residence: Village and post office Matiari, district 
Nadia. 

(488—3) 


NOTICE 

Re.: STANDARD STATIONERY MANUFACTURERS 
LIMITED 

(IN VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION) 

PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that a Meeting of the Creditors 
ot the Company will be held on Saturday, the 9th day of 
June 1962, at 4-30 p.m. at No. 13/1, College Square, 
Calcutta, under the provisions of section 209G of the 
ludian Companies Act, 1913. 

Calcutta, the 16th May 1902. 

A. K. DEY. 

T. BANERJI, 
Joint Liquidators. 

(526—1) 


IN THE MATTER OF TEXTILE APPLIANCE8 LTD* 

IN VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION 

AND 

IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 1913 

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN pursuant to section 209H 
i A the* Companies Act, 1913, that a General Meeting of 
the Members of the abovenamed Company will be held at 
1 ('live Row, Calcutta, at 10.00 a. in. on Monday, the 25th 
him* 1 962, for the purpose of having an account laid 
)eiore them shewing the manner in which the winding up 
■“ns been conducted and tho property of tho Company dia- 
msed ol, and hearing any explanation given by the 
Liquidators, and also of passing an Extraordinary llesolu- 
-mu to the effect that the hooks and papers of the Com- 
pany and of the Liquidators be retained by the Liquidators 
•a a period of live years from the date of the meeting and 
then destroyed. 

K. LUTHRA, 

.. For Self and Co-Liquidator. 

l,a <cd, 16th May, 1962. 

N.lh— A member entitled to attend and vote at the 
Meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and 
vote instead of himself and a proxy need not be a 
member of the Company, 

Explanatory Statement 

affaire > of the Company now having been fully wound 
P Uns meeting is being called as the final meeting pursu- 
thtl y st ‘ution 209H of the Companies Act, 1913, prior to 
GrH.U 1SS0 » 10n °^. ^he Company and also to pass cui Extra- 
Dani 1 'a " eKCf biti°n pursuant to section 242 of the Com- 
ing/* 8 j*'* 1^13, giving directions for the disposal of the 
and papers of the Company and of the. Liquidator*. 

Yours faithfully, 
TEXTILE APPLIANCES LTD. 
(In Voluntary Liquidation) 

K. LUTHRA, 

For Self and Co-Liquidator. 

(527—1) 


LIST OF PUBLICATIONS PUBLI8HED DURINQ THE 
MONTHS OF JANUARY-FEBRUARY, 1962 


REPORTS 

Price 

Rs. 

(1) Annual Report of the Examiner of Local 
Accounts on the working of the Local Audit 
Department for the year 1958-59 ... 2.25 

MISCELLANEOUS 

(1) Cutlery Industry in Burdwan (A Typ® 

Study) ... 2.76 

(2) Schedule of Rates of the Hooghly Irrigation 

Division (year 1900) ... 3.00 

(3) Irrigation and Waterways Department Code, 

volume II ... 10.00 

(4) West Bengal Services (Revision of Pay and 

Allowances) Rules, 1961 . . 0.50 

(5) Delimitation of Parliamentary and Assembly 

Constituencies Order, 1961, XIV, West 
Bengal ... 0.62 

(6) Trends in Industries of West Bengal, 

1950-57 ... 10.36 

(7) The West Bengal Civil List corrected up to 

1st April 1961 ... 6.00 

(8) Monthly Statistical Digest, West Bengal, 

volume XIV, July 1961, No. 4 ... 2.50 

(9) Tibetan English Dictionary ... 40.00 

Available at 


(1) West Bengal Government Press, Publication Branch, 
.‘38 Gopalnagar Road, Calcutta-27. 

(2) Publications Sales Office, 

1 Hastings Street, Calcutta (Local Cash Sales only). 

(3) Das Gupta & Co. (P) Ltd., 

54/3 College Street, Calcutta-12. 

(4) Chuckervertty, Chatterjee & Co. Ltd., 

15 College Square, Calcutta-12. 

(5) S. C. Sarkar & Sons (P) Ltd., 

1C College Square, Calcutta-12. 

(6) S. K. Lahiri & Co. (P) Ltd., 

College Street, Calcutta. 

{7) Orient Book Co., 

9 Shyama Charan De Street, Calcutta^l2. 

(8) M. C Sarkai & Sons (P) Ltd., 

14 Bankim Chatterjee Street, Calc: utt 0^-12. 

(9) Oxford Book & Stationery Co., 

17 Park Street, Calcutta-16. 

(10) Firma K. L. Mukhopadhyay, 

6/1 A Banchharam Akrur Lane, Calcutta-12. 



No. C207 



No. 21 of 1962 


(Ealrtttta 



(fertt? 





USTHA 3 ] 

THURSDAY, MAY 24, 1962 

[ SAKA 1884 


CONTENTS; 

Page. 

State Statistical Bureau — Cost of living indexes, 

Calcutta, and wholesale price index 

for the week ending the 12th May 

1962 .. .. .. 173—174 

Calcutta Improvement Trust — Notice . . 175 



SUPPLEMENT — Official Pfcpm 

• n». 308 HATE 8TATI8TIOAL BUREAU, WEST BENQAL 

TABLE I 

Ooit t» living Indaxtt, Onlcutta an* wheistalt pries intsx (wssfc snilng 12th May IMS) 


Gant of living index — B am : November, 1050. 


Poriod. 

f— 




Expenditure level (in Rs.) 

...... -A— .. ... 




Base, 


r- 

1—100 

▲ 

101—200 

201- 

-160 * 

1VU«*U 


r as 

items. 

Food. 

* All Food, 

items. 

All 

items. 

Fool 


(1) 

<») 

(8) 

(*> (#) 

<•) 

0) 

(8) 


All-Indie wholesale 
price Index*. 

Conversed 
wish 

November 
1000 M 


(•) 


1 January 


98*9 

88*8 

94*1 

April 


95*2 

90*4 

96*6 

July 


94*0 

89*4 

94*4 

Oetebe: 


90*8 

91*0 

95*8 


«)«auy 


90*7 

84*7 

91*1 

April 

** 

80*9 

88*0 

90*5 



01*1 

80*6 

91*8 

Ootobw 

Mr 

00*7 

89 *T 

98*9 


* January 


90*9 

94*8 

91*0 

April 


95*2 

91*8 

94*8 

July 


99*6 

98*0 

98*7 

October 


102*4 

101*3 

100*7 


88*4 

94*7 

89*8 

. . 

... 

90*1 

96*8 

90*1 

e e 

, , 

89*5 

94-7 

89*6 

• a 


91*4 

95*5 

91*3 


, . 


84*4 

91*7 

84*6 

— 


88*7 

91*2 

M*0 

88*9 

92*8 

80*8 

92*0 

85*8 

92*9 

89*0 

89*4 

94*0 

88*0 

90*9 

88*0 


84*0 

91*2 

99*7 

99*8 

99*9 

90*4 

94*6 

99*6 

190*0 

99*9 

90*3 

97*8 

94*7 

109*5 

M*9 

90*9 

99*4 

M*9 

106*7 

98*8 


* Revised series (Bess % 1992*59) sad the eorrespsndiac se a v w Se d s srii si 


174 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 24, 1962 


Period. 


(1) 

1967 January 
April 
July 

October 


1968 January 
April 
July 
October 


1969 January 
April 
July 
Oetober 


1960 January 
April 
July 

October 



Cost of tiring index — Base 

; November, 

i960. 


All-India wholeeafe 
prioe index*. 

— - ■ -a- 











Expenditure level (In Re.) 


Base. 

1962.68. 

Converted 

with 

1—100 


101— too 


801—860 



November 








1950 n 

t * — 

All 

Food. 

All 

Food. 

' All 

Food. 


bane. 

items. 


items. 


items. 




(2) 

(8) 

(4) 

<«> 

<•> 

(V 

(8) 

<•) 

96*4 

94*6 

97-0 

91*9 

96 2 

90 -8 

107 *8 

W*4 

100*6 

98*0 

98-9 

96 *6 

97 *0 

88-6 

106 *6 

99 >9 

106*0 

106 *8 

104*1 

108 *0 

109-7 

100-7 

111-9 

lore 

107*6 

107-0 

106-7 

104 0 

104*0 

102-8 

108 *9 

lOM 


106 0 

101 *8 

108 *1 

98*1 

101 *8 

96-4 

106*0 

99 2 

106*0 

108*1 

104 *4 

100 *2 

108 *2 

9« *9 

107 -4 

99 6 

100-4 

107 *6 

107 *9 

104 *9 

106 *7 

102-6 

114 *7 

106*2 

112*2 

114*8 

111-8 

118-8 

109*8 

108-6 

116-2 

107 *6 


104*6 

97 -2 

102-9 

96-6 

108 -7 

94*6 

118-8 

104*0 

106 -8 

100*0 

106-1 

99-4 

104 *6 

98-2 

111-9 

1014 

110 -4 

108*0 

109 -2 

166 -1 

108 -1 

104 -0 

116-8 

108*1 

114-6 

110*0 

118*0 

118-4 

111-6 

111-0 

119*8 

110*6 


110*4 

108-8 

108*8 

106 -8 

107 *6 

108 *2 

118*8 

116 4 

110-6 

108*0 

108-9 

106 -2 

107-9 

103 *8 

120*6 

1114 

114 *4 

118-9 

112-8 

111 -4 

111*6 

109 *• 

124*7 

116-6 

114-4 

118 *6 

118-8 

111*8 

112*2 

110 *4 

126 *8 

117 0 


January 


109 -7 

106*0 

108-7 

February 


110*0 

106*1 

109-6 

March 


no *9 

106*1 

109 *9 

April 


112-8 

108*2 

111-4 

May 


112*1 

107*8 

111-4 



118-7 

110*1 

112-7 

July 


116*2 

114-1 

116*1 

August 


117-9 

116-8 

116*6 

September 


118-0 

116*4 

116*6 

Oeiober 


119-9 

119-7 

118-2 

November 


180-8 

120-4 

118*4 

Deeember 


117-0 

114-6 

116-3 


108 *2 

108 -4 

102*8 

125*6 

mi 

104 *8 

109*0 

108 -8 

126-7 

1171 

104 *6 

109 -5 

108 9 

127*5 

1181 

107*2 

111-0 

106*6 

126*8 

Hit 

107*0 

111-0 

106*6 

125*3 

111-0 

109*1 

112-1 

108-4 

126*9 

111- 1 

113*2 

114*2 

112-2 

128-7 

119-2 

116*7 

115*6 

114*6 

127-4 

118-0 

115*2 

116*4 

113-8 

124*6 

116-4 

119-2 

116*9 

116-7 

124-4 

116*2 

118*4 

116*9 

116-6 

124 3 

116-1 

112-6 

114-1 

111-1 

122-9 

US-0 


1962 January 

.. 

114-4 

110*1 

112-8 

108*0 

112*1 

107-0 

123- 3 1M ,J 

124- 3 

February 

•• 

114*3 

109*7 

112-8 

107*7 

112-1 

106*6 

Week endint 

K 







124-6 11<H 

123 -9 1M*’ 

14-4-62 

mrm 

118-6 

116-9 

117-1 

115-4 

116-0 

114-4 

21-4.62 

a a 

119-9 

119-1 

117-9 

117-0 

116-6 

115-4 

S8*4«62 

m m 

119-8 

118*8 

117-8 

116-6 

116-4 

114-9 

.a •• 

' 6-5-62 

m 9 

120-3 

119*6 

118-3 

117-5 

116-9 

116-8 

# ^ • a 

‘ 12-5-62 

mm 

119*9 

118*8 

118-0 

116-8 

116-7 

116-3 

a e 


’Revtos* series (Barn 1962-63) mod tba aoir— p e ndi n g eoaverted i n iia 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 24, 1962 


175 


THE board of trustees for the improve- 

1 MENT OF CALCUTTA 

Notice under section 43 of the Calcutta Improvement 
n Act, 1911 (Bengal Act V of 1911) 

BUSTEE REHOUSING SCHEME No. X 

1. it is hereby notified, under section 43 of the 
Calcutta Improvement Act, that an Improvement 
Scheme, namely, a Housing Accommodation Scheme, 
for the purpose of affording alternative residential 
accommodation to bustee dwellers who may be 
displaced from their residence by the acquisition of 
bustees by the Trust for Scheme Nos. VI-M (Supple- 
mentary) and VI1I-M and other Improvement 
Schemes and to be hereafter known as Bustee 
Rehousing Scheme No. X has been framed by the 
Board of Trustees for the Improvement of Calcutta 
in Constituency No. 16 of the Calcutta Corporation. 

2. The area comprised within and required for 
the execution of the Scheme (shown in yellow verge 
in the plan) measures 7.24 acres more or less and is 
more particularly described below: — 

Boundaries of the land 

On the North: Starting from the south-western 
corner of the premises No. 52 Bagmari Road 
(Mohammedan Burial Ground) running east- 
ward along its southern boundary up to the 
north-western corner of the premises No. 120- 
A, Manicktala Main Road. 

On the East: From this point running southward, 
westward and then southward along the 
western boundary of premises No. 120 A, 
Manicktala Main Road to the north-eastern 
corner of the Subsidised Industrial Housing 
Scheme No. IV, within C.I.T. Scheme VII-M. 

On the South: From this point running westward 
along the northern boundary of the Subsidised 
Industrial Housing Scheme No. IV to its north- 
western corner, then southward along its 
western boundary for a distance of 31 feet then 
westward in a straight line for a distance of 


90 feet to a point on the eastern edge of 120 
feet New C.I.T. Road situated at a distance of 
96 feet to the south-west from the north- 
western corner of the Subsidised Industrial 
Housing Scheme No. IV. 

On the West: From this point running north- 
ward along the eastern edge of 120 feet C.I.T. 
Road for a distance of 104 feet then eastward 
for a distance of 90 feet to a point situated 
at a distance of 75 feet to the north from the 
north-western corner of the Subsidised Indus- 
trial Housing Scheme No. IV, then running 
northward in a straight line for a distance of 
465 feet to a point situated at a distance of 
98 feet on the south-east from the south- 
western corner of 52, Bagmari Road, then 
westwards for a distance of 90 feet to a point 
on the eastern edge of 120 feet C.I.T. Road 
situated at a distance of 30 feet to the south 
of south-western corner of 52, Bagmari Road, 
then northward along the eastern edge of 120 
feet C.I.T, Road to the starting point. 

3. Particulars of the scheme and a 
map of the area comprised in the 
scheme may be seen at the office of the Calcutta 
Improvement Trust at 10 Netaji Subhas Road, 
Calcutta-1, on week days between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. 
and on Saturdays between 11 a.m. and 12 noon. All 
the lands required for the execution of the scheme 
have already been or will be acquired in connection 
with Calcutta Improvement Trust Scheme No. VII-M. 

Copies of the above documents will be available on 
payment of the following fees: — 

Particulars of the scheme — Re. 0.25 nP. 

Plan of the .scheme area and layout of the scheme 
— Rs. 1.00 nP. 

4. Objections will be received by the Chairman 
up to 28th June 1962. 

K. SEN, Chairman. 
Dated, Calcutta, the 7th May 1962. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Gov ernm ent Printing, Weet Bengal, 
at the Weet Bengal Government Preee, Alipore. 





Registered No. C207 



(dalruita 







JYAISTHA 101 


THURSDAY, MAY 31, 1962 


[SAKA 1884 


PART IA — Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India; and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 
and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India” are only 
republished. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 


NOTIFICATIONS 
New Delhi-11, the 8th May 1962. 

No. 41/1 /62-PollO). — In exercise of the powers 
conferred by sub-section (1) read with sub-section 
( 2 ) of section 4 of the Criminal Law Amendment 
Act, 1961 (23 of 1961), the Central Government 
hereby declares the issue of the magazine entitled 
“China To-day-50, 1961”, edited and published .by 
Wang Chih-hsi for the Information Office of the 
Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in India, 
New Delhi, and printed at the New Age Printing 
Press, New Delhi, and every copy of the said issue 
and all other documents containing copies, reprints 
and translations of, or extracts from, the said issue 
to be forfeited to the Government on the ground that 
the article entitled “Chinese Foreign Ministry State- 
ment on Sino-Indian Boundary Question” contained 
ln the said issue, the publication of which is 
punishable under section 2 of the said Act, questions 
the territorial integrity and frontiers of India in a 
manner which is likely to be prejudicial to the 
mterests of the safety and security of India. 

N. SAHGAL, Jt. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 11th May 1962 

No. 4 /4 / 624*011.(1).-“ In exercise of the powers 
j-'onferred by sub-section (1), read with sub-section 
C) of section 4 of the Criminal Law Amendment 
!/ ct ’J961 (23 of 1961), the Central Gpvernment 
Hereby declares the issue of the magazine entitled 
Yv, na Today-18, 1962”, edited and published by 
a ng Chih-hsi for the Informtaion Office of the 
Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in India, 
p CW Delhi, and printed at the New Age Printing 
^ ew anc * every copy of the said issue 

all other documents containing copies, reprints 
11(1 translations of, or extracts from, the said issue 


to be forfeited to the Government on the ground 
that the article entitled “Brief Account Of The 
Contents Of The Report Of The Chinese And 
Indian Officials On The Boundary Question” con- 
tained in the said issue, the publication of which 
is punishable under section 2 of tKe said Act, 
questions the territorial integrity and frontiers of 
India in a manner which is likely to be prejudicial 
to the interests of the safety and security ol India 

N. SAHGAL, Jt. Secy. 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

NOTIFICATIONS 
New Delhi, the 24th May 1962. 

No. 82' 168/62. — Whereas the election of Shri 
Monoranjan Baksi as a member of the Legislative 
Assembly of the State of West Bengal from the 
Ausgram Constituency has been called in question 
by an election petition presented under Part VI of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 
1951) by Shri Labanya GopaJ Ghatak, resident of 
mauza Gopalmath, police-station Ondal, post office 
Oyaria, district Burdwan; 

And whereas the Election Commission has caused 
a copy of the petition to be published in the official 
gazette and has served a copy thereof by post on 
each of the respondents under sub-section (1 ) of 
section 86 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951 (43 of 1951); 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sections 86 and 88 of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby appoints Shri Santosh Kumar 
Chakrabortti, District Judge, Bankura, as the mem- 


96 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 31, 1962“ [PartI* 


ber of the Election Tribunal for the trial of the said 
petition and Bankura as the place where the trial 
of the petition shall be held. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 

New Delhi, the 22nd May 1962 

No. 82/19/62.“ -Whereas the election of Shri 
Apurbalal Mazumdar as a member of the Legislative 
Assembly of the State of West Bengal from the 
Panchla Constituency has been called in question by 
an election petition presented under Part VI of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951) 
by Shri Jagannath Chatto (alias Jagannath Chatto- 
padhyay), post office and village Deulpur, elaka No. 3, 
Purbapara, police-station Panchla, district Howrah; 

And whereas the Election Commission has caused 
a copy of the petition to be published in the official 
gazette and has served a copy thereof by post on 
each of the respondents under sub-section (1) of 
section 86 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951 (43 of 1951); 

Now, there! ore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sections 86 and 88 of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby appoints Shri Anil Kumar Sen, 
fudge, City Civil and Sessions Courts, Calcutta, as 
the member of the Election Tribunal for the trial 
of the said petition and Calcutta as the place where 
the trial of tht petition shall be held. 

The Election Commission’s notification No. 82/ 
19/62, dated the 23rd April 1962, appointing Shri 
Sailendra Nath Sen Gupta as member of the Election 
Tribunal, is hereby cancelled. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 22nd May 1962 

No. 82 / 281 / 62. —Whereas the election of Shri 
Abdul Gafur as a member of the Legislative Assembly 
of the State of West Bengal from the Swarupnagar 
Constituency has been called in question by an 
election petition presented under Part VI of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951) 
by Shri Jamini Ranjan Sen, son of late Bepin Chandra 
Sen, residing at village Nirman, police-station 
Swarupnagar, district 24-Parganas; 

And whereas the Election Commission has caused 
a copy of the petition to be published in the official 
gazette and has served a copy thereof by post on 
each of the respondents under sub-section (1) of 
section 86 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951 (43 of 1951); 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sections 86 and 88 of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby appoints Shri Anil Kumar Sen, 


S 

fudge, City Civil and Sessions Courts, Calcutta 
as the member of the Election Tribunal for the trial 
of the said petition and Calcutta as the place where 
the trial of the petition shall be held. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 

New Delhi, the 22nd May 1962. 

No. 82/110/62. — Whereas thf election of Shri 
Pravakar Pal as a member of the Legislative 
Assembly of the State of West Bengal from the 
Singur Constituency has been called in question bv 
an election petition presented under Part VI of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of ] 95 p 
by Shri Ajit Kumar Basu, son of late Amulya Charan 
Basu, resident of Bara, police-station Singur, district 
Hooghly; 

And whereas the Election Commission has caused 
a copy of the petition to be published in the official 
gazette and has served a copy thereof by post on 
each of the respondents under sub-section (1) of 
section 86 of the Representation of the People Act 
1951 (43 of 1951); 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sections 86 and 88 of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby appoints Shri Dcbi Prosad De, 
Additional District Judge, Hooghly, as the member 
of the Election Tribunal for the trial of the said 
petition and Chinsurah as the place where the trial 
of the petition shall be held. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Sccy. 

New Delhi, the 22nd May 1962. 

No. 82/ 172/62.- -Whereas the election of ' Shri 
Kanai Lai Dcy as a member of the Legislative 
Assembly of the State of West Bengal from the 
Chanditala Constituency has been called in question 
by an election petition presented under Part VI ot 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 
1951) by Shri Sudhir Goswami, son of Shri 
Panchanan Goswami, village Aniya (Dakshinpara), 
post office Aniya, district Hooghly; 

And whereas the Election Commission has caused 
a copy of the petition to be published in the official 
gazette and has served a copy thereof by post on 
the respondent under sub-section (1) of section 86 
of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 
(43 of 1951); 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sections 86 and 88 of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby appoints Shri Debi Prosad De, 
Additional District Judge, Hooghly, as the member 
of the Election Tribunal for the trial of the sa’d 
petition and Chinsurah as the place where the t»iil 
of the petition shall be held. 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 



stia] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 31, 1962 


97 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 
NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi, the 23rd May 1962. 

Mo 82/ 152/62. — In pursuance of the provisions of 
^-section (l) of section 86 of the Representation of 
People Act, 1951, the Election Commission here- 
e D ublishes a copy of the Election Petition No. 152 
1962, presented to the Commission on the 11th 
•j ]962, under section 81 of the said Act, by 
j i Hrishikesh Maity, son of Shri Bankim Behari 
l *tv, Kakdwip, police-station Kakdwip. district 24- 
in» : uias, calling in question the election to the 
eaislative Assembly of the State of West Bengal 
JL the Kakdwip constituency of that Assembly of 
hrmiati Maya Banerji, P-612/ 1, Block-‘0\ New 
Jipore, Calcutta-33. 

0 THE ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA, 
Auranzcb Road, New Delhi. 

Election Petition No. of 1962. 

t the matter of an election petition under Part VI 
of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 
(Act 43 of 1951) 

And 

n the matter of calling in question the election to 

1 the West Bengal Legislative Assembly from 
kakdwip Assembly constituency in the district 
tv* 24-Parganas in West Bengal held on the 16th 
dav of February 1962, the result having been 
declared on the 25th day of February 1962 

And 

:bc matter of Hrishikesh Maity, son of Shri 
Bankim Behari Maity, residing at Kakdwip 
vsjthin the jurisdiction of police-station Kakdwip 
i<’ the district of 24-Parganas, Pettumer 

versus 

) Sn . Maya Bancrjee, residing at P612/1, Block- 
“0", New Alipore, Cal.-33. 

) L\ Gobordhan Dingat, residing at village and 
1 pst office Kakdwip, police-station Kakdwip, 
2TParganas. 

Hutipada Baguli, residing at Kamalpore, police- 
station Sagar, 24-Parganas, Respondents. 

The humble petition of the petitioner afore- 
mentioned 

( st lespcctfully sheweth: 

• That your petitioner is an elector in the 
kdwip West Bengal Legislative Assembly Con- 
vey and was also a only nominated candidate 
^ election from the said constituency to the 
-st Bengal Legislative Assembly in the last General 
ietkns held in February 1962. 

\ That the respondents were three other con- 
H candidates at the said election from the said 
Kwip, West Bengal Assembly Constituency to the 
st Bengal Assembly and the respondent No. 1 was 
^ately declared elected on the 25th February 
Your petitioner secured 13,964 votes and the 
j°ndents Nos. 1, 2 and 3 respectively 20,773, 16911 
1 v81 votes. 


3. That the petitioner is a member of the Com- 
munist Party of India and contested the aforesaid 
election as a candidate of the Communist Party of 
India with his election symbol of “Ears of Corn and 
Sickle” and the respondent No. 1 was a candidate 
of the Congress Party with the symbol of “Two 
Bullocks with yoke on” which the respondent No. 3 
was an independent candidate with “Cycle” as nis 
symbol. 

4. That the election of the said respondent No. I 
is void and invalid on the ground that very serious 
corrupt practices were committed by the said res- 
pondent No. 1 and/or her election agents and or 
other persons with the consent of the said respondent 
No. 1, some of which corrupt practices are detailed 
below : 

5. A booklet was published by Shri Binoy Roy, 
Secretary of Propaganda Sub-Committee of West 
Bengal Provincial Committee of All India Congress, 
with a note printed at the back of the said booklet 
by Shri Atulya Ghosh, President of the West Bengal 
Provincial Congress Committee, and the said booklet 
made extensive appeal to the easily roused religious 
sentiments of the people by falsely propagating that 
the Communists were non-believers and were inter- 
ested in exterminating all religious faith including 
Hindu, Muslim, Christian and Parsi. The Com- 
munist Party were falsely represented as heathens and 
it was further represented that the Parties believed in, 
and resorted to, mental and spiritual torbate against 
all people professing religious faiths. 

6. That the people of India and particularly of 
the villages of West Bengal are deeply religious and 
their religious sentiments are also easily roused and 
by representing the Communist Party and their can- 
didates and their members as non-believers and 
atheists and irreligious and opposed to ail religions 
the Congress Party and its candidate the said 
Srimati Maya Bancrjee made a systematic appeal to 
the electorate to vote on ground of religion. 

7. That the respondent No. 1, the said Srimati 
Maya Banerjee used the said booklet and extensively 
quoted from the same in her propaganda speaches, 
and she herself and through her agents distributed 
the said booklet to the electorate of Kakdwip 
Assembly Constituency. 

8. That the respondent No. 1 the said Sm. Maya 
Banerjee is an important member of the Congress 
and the aforesaid booklet published by the said Shri 
Binoy Roy, Secretary of the Propaganda Sub-Com- 
mittee of the West Bengal Provincial Sub-Committee, 
was put out and circulated in the remotest corners 
of West Bengal including the Kakdwip West Bengal 
Assembly Constituency directly to help the candi- 
dature of all Congress candidates including the res- 
pondent No. 1, the said Sm. Maya Banerjee, by 
playing on the religious sentiments of the People of 
Bengal and rousing them against the Communist 
Party and its candidates including the petitioner by 
representing the latter as irreligious, athetist, 
heathen, opposed to all faiths and determined to 
exterminate all religious faiths, 

9. That the respondent No. 1, the said Sm. Maya 
Banerjee, directly benefited from the religious propa- 
ganda against the Communist Party and its candidate 
the petitioner carried on through the aforesaid book- 
let published by the said Binoy Roy. 


98 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 31, 1962 


10. That the systematic religious propaganda with 
the help of the aforesaid booklet and also without it 
by the Congress Party on behalf of its candidate in 
the last General Election the said Sm. Maya Banerjee 
against the Communist Party and its candidate the 
petitioner to the effect that the latter were atheist, 
heathen, irreligious and determined to enterminatc 
all religious faiths exercised undue influence on the 
entire electorate of Kakdwip Assembly Constituency 
and interfered with the free exercise of their electoral 
right by the voters of the said constituency and, not 
only constituted a systematic appeal to the electorate 
by the respondent No. 1 and/or her agent and/or 
other persons with her consent, but also induced the 
electors of Kakdwip Assembly Constituency to 
believe that they will become, or be rendered, an 
object of divine displeasure or spiritual censure if 
they voted for the petitioner being a Communist 
candidate. 

11. That “Janasevak” is a daily published by the 
West Bengal Congress Committee and it is a press 
organ of the Congress Party in Bengal and it worked 
and made propaganda for Congress candidates in- 
cluding the respondent No. 1 for election to the 
Assembly in the last General Elections and its ser- 
vices were accepted by the respondent No. 1, the 
said Sm. Maya Banerjee. 

12. That in its issues of 30th January 1962, 31st 
January 1962 and 2nd February 1962 the said 
“Janasevak” carried a false news calculated to pre- 
judice the election prospects of the petitioner to the 
effect that the Communist Party members and 
workers of Kakdwip Assembly Constituency had 
hung a garland of shoes round the portrait of 
Mahatma Gandhi, father of the Nation. 

13. That the said “Janasevak”, the Congress daily, 
published the said news knowing it to be false in 
order directly to further the election prospects of the 
respondent No. 1, the said Sm. Maya Banerjee, and 
dampen the prospects of the petitioner. 

14. That an enquiry was held into the truth of the 
said allegation about insulting the memory of late 
Mahatma Gandhi by the Subdivisional Police Officer 
who found the aforesaid allegation to be completely 
false. 

15. That the publication of the aforesaid false 
allegation about insult to Gandhiji by “Janascvak 
the Congress daily, which worked for, and made pro- 
paganda for, the respondent No. 1, the said Sm. 
Maya Banerjee, was a flagrantly corrupt practice that 
has vitiated the entire election. 

16. The respondent No. 1, the said Sm. Maya 
Banerjee, who was a Deputy Minister in the State of 
West Bengal at the time of the elections used State 
machinery to prejudice the prospects of the petitioner 
and further her own prospects and caused the Pre- 
siding Officers who are Government Officers not to 
accept Polling Agents appointed by the petitioner’s 
election agent in several polling stations such as 
Kusumtala Baliara F. P. School. 

17. The petitioner has reason to believe that the 
respondent No. 1, the said Sm. Mava Banerjee, had 
large-scale preparations to cast false votes in the 
polling stations wherefrom the petitioner’s polling 
agents were excluded and, to facilitate casting of 
such false votes, influenced the Presiding Officers 


[Part 


who are Government officers and caused them not 
to accept the appointment of the polling agents 
appointed on behalf of the petitioner by the pe tl , 
tioner’s election agent. 


18. That the respondent No. 1, the said Sm. Maya 
Banerjee used her position as Deputy Minister ol 
State, to influence and corrupt Government office^ 
entrusted with the conduct of the election j n 
Kakdwip Assembly Constituency . in order to further 
her own election prospects and prejudice the pros, 
pects of the petitioner. 


19. That the respondent No. 1, the said Sm. 
Maya Banerjee, employed a large number of goondas 
to terrorise the electorate of Kakdwip Assembly Con. 
stituency in order that the latter may not truly 
exercise their electoral right. One such glaring 
instance of terrorisation happened on the 1st January 
1962 when in the afternoon Mr. Jyoti Basu, leader 
of the opposition in the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly, and Mr. S. Roy, M.L.A., were to address 
prearranged election meetings at Kakdwip in favour 
of the petitioner and, to terrorise the people, the 
goondas employed by the respondent No. 1 burnt 
the effigies of Mr. Roy and Mr. Basu and, when 
Mr. Roy and Mr. Basu arrived they were greeted - 
with black flags and their paths were obstructed m, 
the sight of theJPolice bv the said goondas who- 
openly brandished daggers and bombs. They dis- 
turbed the meetings addressed by Mr. Jyoti Basu ami 
Mr. S. Rov. A General Diary entry was made in the 
Kakdwip police-station on 1st and 2nd February 
1962 complaining against the aforesaid incidents 

20. That the respondent No. 1, the said Sm. 
Maya Banerjee, hired and/or procured the launch 
“Urmila” to carry voters of Debnagar Dakhinpara to 
the Medanganj Polling Booth across and along the 
river in order that they might vote fo~ the said im- 
pendent No. 1. 

True copv of petition of protest in Bengali tha 1 was 
made in this connection by Shri Prafulla Kumar 
Golc, Polling Agent of Dr. Gobardhan Dingal, the 
respondent No. 2, is annexed herewith and marked 

A. 


21. That Sundarban Janakalyan Sangha is w 
organisation of the Congress Party and directly made, 
propaganda in favour of the respondent No. 1. the, 
said Sm. Maya Banerjee. In order to unduly influenu* 
the electors of the area and interfere with the tree 
exercise of their electoral right, the respondent No. 1. 
the said Sm. Maya Banerjee, made a gift of the sum 
of Rs. 1,000 to the Ganeshnagar Junior High Schoo 
ostensibly towards the building funds of the Schoo 
on behalf of the said Sundarban Janakalyan Sangnjj 
which is an organisation of the Congress and whic 
directly participated in election campaign in tavpu 
of the respondent No. 1, the said Sm. Maya Banerjee 
Copy of a notice that was issued in Bengali i 
annexed herewith and marked B. 


22. The said Ganeshnagar Junior High Schoo 
situated in Kakdwip Assembly Constituency 
serve the interest of a large number of electors o 
said Assembly constituency and the said gift 0 
sum of Rs. LOOO towards the building funds o 
said Ganeshnagar Junior High School is a c w 
practice within the meaning of section 123(1 j 
Representation of the People Act of 1951 calc 


pA*l FA] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 31, 1962 


99 


directly or indirectly to induce the electors of the 
area to vote for Sm. Maya Banerjee, the respondent 
No. 1. 

23. That the respondent No. i, the said Sm. 
Ma>a Banerjee, who was a Deputy Minister at the 
time of the elections, directly employed State 
machinery in her lavour and commandeered and re- 
quisitioned the vehicles and launches ol tile Depart- 
ments of Irrigation, Fishery, Forest, etc. She also 
used the car allotted to her for discharge of her 
i unctions as Deputy Minister for her election purpose 
against the provisions of section 123(5) of the said 
Representation of the People Act of 1951 as well as 
section 123(7) ol the said Act. 

24. That, in order to terrorise the electors of 
kakdwip Assembly Constituency, the respondent 
No. 1, the said Sm. Maya Banerjee, always used to be 
escorted by the Police wherever and whenever she 
moved and, by getting such Police escort lor herself, 
the respondent No. 1, the said Sm. Maya Banerjee, 
sought to terrorise and overwhelm the electors by 
her official position and power. 

25. That in the Budhakali booth where the peti- 
tions was getting overwhelming support the res- 
pondent No. 1, the said Sm. Maya Banerjee, used her 
position as Deputy Minister to stop the polling for 
about half an hour by creating a row on the false 
allegation that the Presiding Officer was supporting 
die petitioner and, due to that action of the res- 
pondent No. 1 the electorate became scared and 
went away and the majority in favour of the peti- 
tioner dwindled. 

26. That large scale corrupt practices were 
i csortod to is evident from the facts (a) that Con- 
fess specimen ballot papers were lound within the 
ballot Box, (b) Assembly ballot papers 127295 and 
163109 allotted for booths 95/23 and 95/69 were 
■ound missing, (c) Similarly many other ballot papers 
were found missing as would be borne out by the 
lecords of the election. 

27. That respondent No. J, the said Sm. Maya 
Banerjee, used her position as Deputy Minister to get 
l ’* lc Abdul Hamid, a Government Contractor of 
■Wgrahat, assaulted, restrained and arrested on 

February 1962 and sent illegally under arrest 
l,K Magistrate through Sagar Police though 
ultimately the learned Magistrate discharged him and 
, 1 unlawful action by Sm. Banerjee, the respon- 
d'd, created panic among the Muslim oi Sagar and 
licjudieated the interests of the petitioner. 

That respondent No. i, the said Sm. Maya 
1 etnerjee, caused meetings of Muslims to be 
mossed by the ‘Pir* who appealed to the Muslims 
n ground of religion to vote against the Communist 
‘irt\ candidate and for the Congress. The said 
^pmulent No. 1, Sm. Maya Banerjee, circulated and 
Sen ■ 10 he circulatcd reprints by Shri Benny Roy, 
P ro P a & aric * a Sub-Committee of the West 
v'H Confess, of a communal appeal to Muslims 
°te to save their religion against Communist 
r ‘ ,rt y and for Congress. 

Mav J hat . the respondent No. 1, the said Sm. 
tj Ur a “ a nerjec, supplied, and caused supply of, 
r his oiff Muslim women to induce them by 

Sm t0 votc ^ or respondent No. 1, the said 
• Maya Banerjee. 


30. That the respondent No. 1, the said Sm. 
Maya Banerjee, supplied blank application iorms for 
recruitment to services in the Refugee and Rehabili- 
tation Department to the young people and promised 
them jobs if they voted lor the Congress and worked 
for the Congress. 

31. That the petitioner craves leave at the time 
oi hearing to prove other corrupt practices resort- 
ed to by the respondent No. 1. 

32. That due to the aforesaid corrupt practices 
ie sorted to by the respondent No. 1, the said Sm. 
Maya Banerjee, the entire election has became 
vitiated and void. 

33. That but for the votes obtained by the 
returned candidate the said Sm. Maya Banerjee, by 
corrupt practices the petitioner would have obtained 
a majority of the valid votes. 

In the circumstances, the petitioner prays tor 
an order : 

(a) for appointment of an Election Tribunal 
for hearing the petition, 

. (b) for a declaration that the election of ihc 
returned candidate the respondent No. 1 is 
void and that the petitioner has been duly 
elected, 

(c) for such further order or orders as to this 
Tribunal may seem fit and proper, 

Ana your petitioner as in duly bound shall ever 
pray. 

Affidavit 

1, Hrishikesh Maity, son of Shri Bankim Behari 
Maily, residing at Shibkalinagar, police-station 
Kakdwip, 24-Parganas, aged about 36, by occupation 
cultivator, by caste Hindu, do hereby solemnly affirm 
and say as follows: — 

(1) I am the petitioner and know the facts and 

circumstances of the case. 

(2) Statements made in foregoing paragraphs 1 to 

31 are true to my knowledge while those in 
paragraphs 32 and 33 are my humble sub- 
mission to this Hon’blc Court. 

HRISHIKESH MAITY. 


4 he Returning Officer, Kakdwip Assembly 

Constituency. 

Through the Presiding Officer, Madanganj Free 
Primary School at Madanganj, police-station 
Kakdwip; Polling Station No. 95/34. 

SGTPTO, 

5134*03 for ifltfSjpS 

i rw <u£ ct, few 

w rerifaww 

srrsfl Sfrrsl sn?n qiwrte' qfomsra “fe faW ’ jttsfp 

sracrcif for confers » 

for fao <5 otto 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 31, 1962 


[PAlli^tX 


100 


JCT<3 !?3>R S3 t '®I$J fac3i*ft 

(3 -Sllfer t £§^0? I ®T?T cailSTv C*i>*IR3 SIHR^IS) 
Cetera C'olI^CiTW ®>T© «ITCSR, 3j®il s a C«1J> fcHTbR 

^?n<1 I 

^Tvi/ifW ^ uk*t r> >ic i r3 a n > ® 41331 211*0(1 

vijacjn® ■*i<i > «n sit’* c , oii>^t*i i iii4<?i 4 kmri 'Bhpt'T v?i 

*|«|<n W! C4W 31*413 413313 S(TI4C«1 *151 413313 

*nPT*i 53 i fac3*R i'f® ttiv- i 

Wt*, 

*3(S flOT^EI : 3RT3 cnM I 
“B” 

Sf?T$ w*!®^ 

5T5T3R! 

'®ITMT*1 S 1 ^ ° ^0- Vfc 5 sjWte^RI T <141 cl 8U613 *141'! 

cir®isri<i a; 6 !! sr*sim3 *n«R T3RFTC3 

>£i4 *r*T3 *nrarsR 4T3*irk i 3*ra ’w'sr “rc**r?rr 


9ff*55t^9flT JF^CSPl 1?^ -S 4l4^1a C4C»B3 4\KR ai«ft 

§rw*1‘ 'sjrai 4C H rT I, n*ora caterrf^'Si i ^i^ 

iSaf 5 ®!^ i£t4l»*^ 4r*HI 4’f3 I 

^CP«f «flC4 CT, 3v ft f33*'l Efi^ctiH 
®ir(cw 3 4^; «n4i?«r'o ts^i«i4C«^i ^>,ooo tfoi 

>n4TCTra 2jf*a;,f* fa?m>7 i fes Sr4i *rc*13 
Slsrsl 4C rf rT'nsm?i >i®ie* ^R^Ttroxaiw 

4?3C33 i 

*TC **l*l«>%l 
3 TTC -Q C3TS 7CT*I R4RI l 
CBfsn *8-‘ 5 m c (T I 

^11^1*14 

sflfasra sn^ro 

3pni¥4 

S1W*( 3^13 af,M3l3 JTR;' ffn i 


By Order, 

K. K. SETHI, llndci Secy. 


(Extract from “Punjab Government Gazette”, dated 
the 24th November 1961.) 

HOME DEPARTMENT 
Press Branch 
NOTIFICATION 
The 20th November 1961 

No. 12669-PB-61 / 232. -Whereas it appears to the 
Governor of Punjab that the book entitled “Thandi 
Aag” by Naeem Siddiqi, published by Maktaba 


Chintgh-e-Rah, Karachi, and printed at the Anjunuir 
Press, Karachi, in its passages reiened to in the 
schedule to this order, contains matter which 
promotes or intends to promote feelings ol enmity 
and hatred between the Sikhs and the Muslims; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 99-A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 
1898 (Act No. 4 ol 1898), the Governor ol Punjab 
is pleased to declare every copy ol the aloicsaid 
publication to be forleited to Government. . 


Schedule 


Nam» of atorv. 

Pago of tin* book. 

PuNnugo. 

r 

A kola Mmnf 

. . 130 

Beginning with Urn wordn “Dnriuilo Thug Khrl Atnln* Hu- 
and unding with “Cnrfow Ka ltaj Qtum Jtalm \ 

Ditto 

.. 131 

Beginning witli tho words “Minor Kk Dnin lanza” ami ' ,1 ^ 11 ^ 
with “Tor Maul Mon i3o Ilium’ Pity iga”. 

Ditto 

1.TJ 

• 

Beginning with Urn word). “Aidci-dum l av KK th‘di Ao,K‘' * Huk 1 
and ending with “Un Ki Chhattyon Kaat DulitJatin . 

Ditto 

. . 133 

Beginning with the words “Jimioh Masjid Moil Sarah K’ lk*tl 
and ending with “Bacharn Sofod Minor Dati SaiJh<’ K 
Thu”. 

Chup Mi Bind! 

. . i»5i- ese 

liogimiiiig with the wordw “Dk Din 3ob Nozuk (diaii A t* 
uud ending with “YuJmn Tuk Koh Woli Qiv • 


}. D. KHANNA, Dy. Secy. 


flit$rwd No. C207 



(Mrutta 





(lazrttr 


AI8THA 10 ] 


THURSDAY, MAY 31, 1962 


[ SAKA 1884 


PART II — Advertisements, Notices 

Hriura regarding sanding Manuscripts tor publloatlon of Advertisements, Notices, oto.. in tho 

“Oaloutta Gazette" (Part II). ’ 

I , Me eescrt pts sheets be prepetiy edited and cemplets in Itselt. 

L Maa ossrlpts shoe Id always to typewritten on one slds et the paper. The name ol signatory sheuld be typewritten 
nv the signature. 

J. Manuscripts intended for advertisement in the next issue ol “Calcutta Gaietts’* shall be received bv P ublication ante, 

is ct New •ocrotartat Buildings, 1 Hastings Street, Calcutta. up to 3-30 p. m. on Friday and at Head Offi?e a? AUpel? uo to 
i, ai. on Saturday. " 

L All casts shall bo paid In advance and deposited along with the manuscripts. 

I. Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING (PUBLlOATion 
MON), WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS. ALIPORE. IfUUUOATION 

Tbs srsss ihall not bo hold responsible tor delay In publication ol any advertisement due to the non-OBservimrt of the 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 
Advertisement No. at 

IPPLIC VT*ION'S are invited for undermentioned posts 
[om Indian citizens and persons of Indian origin migrated 
tom Pakistan with intention of permanently settling m 
ndia. Subjects of Nepal, Sikkun f/r State or Pondichcrrx , 
Jid persons domiciletl in Goa, Daman and Dm. Ago limits 
taxable for Government servants except where otherwise 
^aolfted. U pper age limits relaxablc by five years lor 
cheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes candidates and up 
D i*‘) \cnrs for displaeed persons from Pakistan. No 
taxation tor others, save in except tonal circuinstiwices, 
fid will in mi case be relaxed beyc/nd a limit of three 

**rs. Qualifications relaxable at Commission's discretion 
i mm of candidates otherwise well qualified. Paiticulars 
|nd application iorms obtainable irmn Secrotaiy, If n ion 
iibhr Service Commission, Post Pox No. 180, New Delhi. 
Ipquest for forms must specify name ol post and should 
1 xwompaniod by self-addressed unstamped envelope foi 
pus! at lea*st of size 9*x4" indicating thereon name 
f pouts for which forms are required. Closing da Pi for 
^’ipt of application with treasury receipt or crossed 
K*i n Postal Order for Rs. 7.50 nP. (1.87 nP. lor 
I’Oedulcd Cast.es and Scheduled Tribes) in respect ol ileni 
1 only 23rd July 1962 (6th August 1962 for applicants 
; . m ttn ^ ^. or other items 25th June 1962 (9th 

1J62 lor applicants from abroad). Commission may 
^ l t genuinely indigent and bona fide displaced persons’ 
irh ^ p ^ >ara t^ application with separate tee required for 
|i ^ Candidates abroad may apply on plain paper 
bnb m - B . ar0 n °^ avai ^ a ^ e and deposit fee with local Indian 
^ If. re< l Tlir<1 d candidates must appear for personal 

frnm hirty> * ven MMdftcai Ofhoerty Grade II, Border Roads 
‘mJwid* Boar <*» Mlnlatry of Transport and Communl- 

u jo*- temporary hut likelv to continue. Pay: 

) nr/n } ^ — 600 — 35 — 705 — E. B.— 35— 950 plus 
•practising allowance of 25 per cent, of pay, subject 


to a mm, mum ol Rs. 150 per month, di) Compensatory 
allowance of 30 per cent, ol \m\ and non-practising allow- 
ance' subject t„ a minimum ol Rs. 2IM) per month and a 
maximum ol Rs. d.>0 per month while seining in certain 
specified areas (ni) Free rations, single mvommodatirm ol 
simple type and medical treatment; and (iv) Initial outfit 
allowance ol Its. 250. Pnvate practice oi anv kind wdl 
nut fie allowed. Higher initial pa> to special^ qualified and 
expenenced candidates. Age: 15 3 ears and below. Quali- 
fications: Essential to A Medical qualification (other than 
lironl nite quaJification ) included in the First or Second 
Nched.ile or Part II cd Third Schedule to the Indian 
Medical ( ouned Act, I9.»0. |J 5*1. soils possessing qualifica- 
iou.s 1 Deluded in Part il of Third Schedule should also 
iulfil the conditions relating to registration siieeified in 
section 13(3) ol the Act.J (n) About two years’ expert-, 
mice m the profession. 

i'. (a) Two Resoaroh Officers (8enlor Scale), and (b) 

Three Research Officers (Junior Scale), Central l«tland 
Fisheries Research Institute, Barraokpore, Ministry of Food 
and Agriculture. Posts temporal \ . Imt likely to continue 
imfi'ii nr I <d\ . One oi the posts at (a) is reserved for 
Scheduled ( a st os /Tribes candidate; two of the posts at (b) 
are reserved lor Scheduled Castes candidates, and the 
third is reserved tor Scheduled Tribes candidate: ii such 
suitable candidates available; otherwise all the five posts 
1 1 ea led a-s unreserved. Pay: Posts at (a): Rs. J00-A0-. 
1,250. Posts at (b): Rs. 400 — 40 - 800 50. 950. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidates. 
Age: Mi years and below lor posts at (a> and ,‘15 years 
and below lor posts at (b). Qualifications: Essential'— (i) 
Master s degree in Zoology of a reeognised University, 
(ii) About, five years [for pf/sts at (a')|, 3 years [for posits 
at ( n ) | research experience 111 inland fisheries 


3. One Librarian, Ministry of Commeroe and Industry* 

Post permanent, but appointment will be made on tempo- 
? * r .v basis in lien vacancy. Post reserved for Scheduled 
Castes /Tribes candidate; if no such suitable candidate 


244 


THE CALCUTTA QAZETTE, MAY 31, 1962 




available, will be treated as unreserved. Pay: Its. .‘150—25 
—500— 30 -590— E. B. 30 BOO — K. 11. -;}0 — B30— ;io -900. 
Higher initial pay to specially tiualificd and experienced 
candidate. Age: .*15 years and below. Qualifications: 
Essential — (i) Decree or Diploma in Library Science of a 
recognised University or Institution. (ii) About throe 
years’ experience in a library ot standing. (iii) I 1 air 
knowledge of Hindi. 

4. Five Assistant Agronomists for the Central Potato 

Research Institute. Posts temporary but likely to conti- 
nue. Other things being equal, vScheduled CastesyTribes 
candidates would be preferred. Pay: B’s. .‘150 — 25— 500—- 410 
-500- E. ]1. — .‘10 — H(K) -E. II. 830—35- 900. Higher 

initial pay to specially (|Ualified and experienced candidates. 
Age: 35 years and below. Qualifications: Essential — -O) 
Master’s degree in Agronomy iff recognised University 
(or) Associatesbip ot I.A.R.l. m Agronomy, or equivalent, 
(li) About three years' experience of research in Agronomy 
as evidenced by published papers. (iii) Adequate know- 
ledge of the application of statistical methods io biological 
problems. 

5. Two Assistant Botanists for the Central Rice Resoaroh 
Institute, Cuttack, Ministry of Food and Agrloulture. 

Posts temporary hut likely to continue. Posts reserved 
for Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidates il such suitable, 
candidates are available, otherwise treated unreserved. 
Pay: Its. 350—25—500 30- -590 — E. B . — 30 — 800 — E . B. - 
30— 830— 15— 900. Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
and experienced candidates. Age: — 35 years and below. 
Qualifications: Essential- (i) Master’s degree in Botanv 
or Agricultural Botanv of recognised University (or) 
Associatesbip of I.A.R.l. m Plant Breeding and Genetics, 
or equivalent. (ii) About two years’ research experience 
in Plant Breeding, preferably i ice breeding. 

0. One Deputy Assistant Direotor, Central Researoh 
institute, Kasauli, Ministry of Health. Post- temporary 
but likolv to continue on long term basis. Pay: Rs. 400 

- 400- -450 — 30 — (MK ) — 35 — 070— K . B. AV— 950. (No dear- 
ness allowance will be admissible). Private practice of any 
kind will not be allowed Higher initial pay to specially 
qualified and experienced candidate. Age: .35 years and 
below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) A Medical qualifica- 
tion included in the First, or Second Schedule or Part II 
iff Third Schedule (other than Licentiate qualification) tb 
the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956. [Holders of educa- 
tional qualifications included in Part TI of Third Schedule, 
should also fulfil the conditions hwd down under section 
13(3) of the Act.] (ii) Teaching and/or research experi- 
ence in Bacteriology and Pathology. 

7. One Assistant Direotor, Central Researoh Institute, 
Kasauli, Ministry of Health. Post- temporary but likely 
to continue on long term basis. Pay: Rs. 700 10 1 KM) 

—50/2- 1,250 (No dearness allowance is admissible) 

Private practice of anv kind will not he allowed. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candi- 
date. Age: 40 years ami below. Qualifications: Essential 

— (i) A Medical qualificat ion included in the First or 
Second Schedule or Part 11 of Third Schedule (other than 
Licentiate qualification) to the Indian Medical Council 

♦ Act, 1956. [Holders ol educational qualifications included 
in Part. 11 of Third Schedule should also fulfil the condi- 
tions laid down under section 13(3) ol I lie Act.] (ii) Post- 
graduate Degree in Pathology or Bacteriology, e.g., M.D. 
(Pathology and Bacteriology ) , M.Se. (Pathology or Baete 
riology). Or Postgraduate Diploma in Bacteriology or 
Pathology, e.g., D.B. or D.C.P. (iii) About seven years' 
standing in the profession with about five years’ experi- 
ence in teaching or research iii Pathology or Bacteriology. 

S. One Librarian, National Arohives of India, Ministry 
Of Education. Post, permanent, and reserved for Scheduled 
Castes candidate; it no such suitable candidate available, 

will be trended as unreserved. Pay: Rs. 350 25 500 ,30 

— 590— E. B. - 30— 800 K. B. — ,30 8,‘U)— .35— 900 (Revised 
scale). Higher initial pay to specially qualified and expe- 
rienced candidate. Age: 10 vears arid below. Qualifica- 
tions: Essential — (i) Second (Mass Master’s or equivalent 
Honours Degree of a recognised University. (ii) Degree 
or Diploma in Library Science of a recognised University/ 
Institution. (iii) About five years’ experience in Librarv 
Administration. 

9. One Dairy Engineer (Junior) for the Delhi Milk 
8ohome, Ministry of Food and Agrloulture. Post tempo- 
rary but. likely to continue indefinitely. Post reserved for 


Scheduled Tribes candidate if such suitable randidat 
available, otherwise treated unreserved. Pay: ? 

10 — 1,100 — 50/2—1,250. Higher initial pay p, s 

qualified and experienced candidate. Age: 10 VfMr ^ 
below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) Degree in Mf.V 
cal or Electrical Engineering of recognised lJm\f., vl ‘ 4| 
equivalent. (ii) About five years’ experience oi M er j 
eal / Electrical Engineering in a large engineering works! 
or power house. 

10. One Prinolpal, Rashtriya Indian Military c 0 iu 
Deftra Dun, Ministry of Defence. Post permanent p. 
Rs. 1 ,1 00 — 50 — 1 ,500. Higher initial pay to * * 
qualified and experienced candidate. Age: 15 y,,^ 1 ' 
below. Qualifications: Essential— (i) At least, Scro,„| n 
Master’s or equivalent Honours Degree of a roro,^, 
University. (ii) Degree or Diploma in Teaching * / 
About ten years’ teaching experience, out of which ^ 
three years’ administrative experience should ho hs H n . 
Master or Section Master or Head of a Public School 


PUBLIC 8ERVICE COMMISSION, WE8T BENGAL 

General Instructions to candidates applying in responu 
advertisements Issued by the Commission for non 
ment to poets of "8elootlon”. 

(1) Instructions regarding submission of appiioatlon 

Applications are to be made on the prescribed form whi 
will be available from the office of the Public Service Vo 
mission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground tka 
Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a large w 
addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to cover t 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who arc unable to ohtj 
copies of the prescribed form may apply on anv simi 
typed (not handwritten) form showing exactly the wo 
ing and spacing of the sample form published in 
“Calcutta Gazette” of the 1st September 1965, prow 
the blanks are filled ud in the candidates’ own handwntu 

(2) Particulars and oartlfioatos required. Candid* 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications i 
previous experience together with certificates written i 
more than one year prior to the date of their appheatm 
from responsible persons, testifying to their privi 
character. 

The Commission accepts only the age ol a ('andidat* 
lecorded in the Matriculation or the Secondary nIi 
F inal/ Leaving Certificate. In the case ol a 1 enisle tan 
date whose age is not recorded m the Mat ri ruin Mmi 
School Final Certificate, any of the following eudenefl 
age is accepted by the Commission: — 

1. A certificate from the Headmistress of the M'fio 

which she last attended, showing her exact a«e 
recorded in the school register. 

2. An affidavit regarding her age sworn by her : *d 

or mother or some other person in » posit nn 
know by having been present or heard of her w 
at the time of occurrence. 

8. A certificate regarding her age, from a Monitor 
the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who w 
have known the candidate and her family. i>*uir 
ing clearly the evidence on the basis of which 
she satisfied himself /herBelf on the point. 

(3) Fee. Candidates must enclose with their apolJ 
tions a fee of Rs. 6 in the form of a receipted erm 
from a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank ol * 
under the head “XXXVI — Miscellaneous— Receipts o. 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal”. Money <r 
cheques, etc., in lieu of treasury challans are not 
Postal order, however, may be accepted trom 
They should be crossed and made payable to I”* v 
tary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal 
ration will be considered unless accompanied W1 
requisite application fee. 

Candidates abroad may deposit their application 1 
with the High Commissioner of India or the Lino ^ 
the case may be, and obtain receipts for the sam , ^ 
will have to be attached to their applications t0 
nutted to the Commission. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 31, 1962 


245 


Part II] 


Candidates in Government service Bhould make sure 
before depositing fee that their application* will be forward- 
34 by their superior officers. In no case will the fee paid 
with the application be refunded. 

The Commission may remit fee in case of genuine 
indigent and bona fide displaced person from Pakistan. 

An indigent displaced person shall, in the first instance, 
p B y the application fee prescribed for a gazetted post 
advertised by the Commission but if he / she is selected for 
and appears at the interview, the fee paid by him/her will 
be refunded afterwards. 

Note* — “(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must turnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, e.g 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original. 

(li) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his appli- 
cation a certificate in original from a gazetted officer or a 
Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging to 
the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 

(in) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion fee must furnish besides the evidence required under 
Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or » Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.” 

(4) Address. — Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 

(5) Canvassing. — Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
persona interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will be disregarded. 

(6) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation), in 
India will lie rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 

Candidates serving under Government or a local or 
Statutory Body should submit an advance copy in the pres- 
cribed form. The application fee should in such cases be 
attached to the advance copy and not to the original. The 
candidature of such applicants may not however be con- 
sidered if the original applications do not reach the Com- 
mission’s office within a fortnight from the closing date. 
Unless applications in original or advance copies with 
application fees are received within the closing date, late 
applications may be rejected. 


A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 
Ahpore, the 27th January 1961. 


Advertisement No. 33 

CUMJ’KTmVK (EXAMINATIONS will lie held in Calcutta 
m dune 1962 lor recruitment of English Stenographers in 
m ^ * Bengal Secretai iat, Directorates, and subordinate 

nthcos in tun categories of posts with scales of pay: 
ln Bs‘. 200 — 100 plus house rent allowance if admissible, 
a, |d (it) Its. 1 75 — 325 nlus house rent, allowance if admis- 
*ml(> Prisons other than temporary stenographers in 
'Y<g(irv (j) and permanent stenographers in category (ii) 
^ 10 ha vo passed in the 140 words per minute Efficiency 
iJ'nijs Tost on at least three consecutive occasions or at 
. ns ' 0,,r out of six occasions during years immediately 
^ Ceding this year and are thus eligiblo for recruitment 
in 7* r ° rv ^ ^ Promotion /absorption, are eligible to 
tioi* ' * (>l in category (i) if they fulfil the qualifiea- 

I is peosorihod below Persons other than temporary 
efl 'JV^Ohors in category (ii) (including those not recruit- 
nrough the Public Service ( 'ornmissioii ) who have 


passed the 1 10 words per minute Efficiency Bonus Test on 
at. least three consecutive occasions or at least lour out 
of six occasions during years immediately preceding this 
>ear and are thus eligible lor recruitment hv method of 
absorption under the rules, are eligible t«, apply for posts 
in category (ii) it th«*y fulfil the qualifications below. 

Qualifications! School Final Examimit u/n Certificate or 
its equivalent. Age not more than 30 years on tho 1st 
January 1902, reluxable for certain categories ot employees 
under Government of West Bengal. The age limit is also 
reluxable hv five years for Scheduled Caste* /Tribes, by 
three years for displaced persons from Pakistan aaid by 
eight years if such a displaced person be also of Scheduled 
Castes/ Tribes. The age-limit is also relaxable in certain 
other cases. 

Copies of detailed notice and indication form obtainable 
free of cost on and from 18th May 1962 troin the office 
nt the Public Service Commission, West Bengal, Anderson 
House (ground floor) Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or 
on sending a self addressed large envelope (size 10* x5") 
with postage stamps worth 25 naye paise affixed thereon. 
Those who intend to take appheatiem form, etc., and/or 
submit the applications personally, should do so’hetween 
10 15 a m. and 3-00 p.m. on full working days and between 
10-15 a. m. and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays, Application? 
(with two copies of passport size photographs) to he sub- 
mitted on prescribed form with a Crossed Postal Order ot 
Rs. 10.00 payable to “the Secretary, Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal” or a Treasury Chilian for Rs. 10.00 
under head “XXT — Miscellaneous — Receipts of Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal”. The Commission may 
remit fees of genuinely indigent, and bona fide displaced 
persons. A candidate seeking remission of fees will, how- 
ever, he required to pay the prescribed fee along with the 
HppliciftioriK. If he appears at the examination and Mitis- 
ties the Commission that he is a bona fide displaced person 
in indigent circumstances who can ill afford to pay the 
fee, the ann/unt paid shall he refunded to him. 

Last date of filing applf oat Ions— 1st June 1962. 

A. C. ROY, Secret a r.\ 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 
Alipore, the 16th May 1962. 


Advert isomen t No. 34 

APPLICATIONS are invited from Indian citizens for the 
following posts — 

(a) One Assistant Professor of Veterinary Hygiene and 
Dietetics, Bengal Veterinary College, M the West Bengal 
Veterinary 8ervice. Post temporary. Pay: Rs. 300— 30 
— 900 (E.B. after 8th and 16th stages) per mouth plus 
house rent allowance as admissible under the rules. 

Qualifications! Essential — M.R.O.V.S. or M Sc. (Veteri- 
nary Science) ; Or, Degree or recognised diploma in 
Veterinary Science plus post-graduate degree or diploma 
hi Animal Husbandry or Animal Nutrition. Dasirabla — 
(i) Research experience in Animal Husbandry or Animal 
'Nutriticm; !<ii) Teaching experience preferably in » 
Veterinary College; (iii) Experience in the management 
of a live-stock farm or experience of work in a large 
animal breeding farm or clinical experience; (hi Know- 
ledge of Bengali spoken and written. Ago: Between 25 
and 35 years on the 31st, December 1962. relwxahle in the 
case of candidates possessing exceptionally high qualifica- 
tions or for person 4 , holding substantive appointment under 
the Central or a State Government,. 

(h) Two Researofi Officers (Soil Mechanics), in the 
River Researofi institute, West Bengal, In the West 
Bengal General 8ervloe. Posts temporary. Pay: Rs. 325 

---30- 475 — 35 — 1 .000 (E.B. after 8th and With stages) 

per month plus house rent allowance as admissible under 
the rules. Higher initial pay up to Rs. 650 may he 
granted on the basis of qualifications and experience. A 
special compensatory allowance at the rate of 20 per cent, 
of the basics pay plus a tentage allowance at the rate of 
20 per cent, per month is admissible it the incumbent is 
posted in the Sundarhans Area, south of the Dampier 
Hodge’s Line. 


246 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 31, 1962 


[Part n 


nuailfkoatlons i A first class degree in Civil Engineering 

27 yearn on the 1st June 1962. 

(«.) Two Junior Lecturer* In Moohaniool Engineering, 

(d) Two Junior Lecturer* m Elootrloal Engineering, 

(©) On# Junior Looturor In Drawing, 

.. u,.., General Servioe. Posts permanent. 

V™ 325 — !W 175 36 1 .000 r» 

month . 

ouaiinoatlonei For Junior Looturere In Moohaniool Engl- 

££Vu£ StSL“l i 'S3&i «MjV«s 

"eer’fl post-graduate practical experience; (in) Good power 
of expression in Bengali. 

For Junior Uooturora In Elootrloal Engineering: (0 A 

Bengali. 

Kn"i^onim tU n? r a ’ I] nlvers'ity "or any other 

Sate'^rom^appe^ 

Membership Examination of the lnstitntlon of Engineers 
(India) Tii) Proficiency in Drawing; (u^ On yea, s 
post-grad, late practical experience; O') Good po«ei 
expression in Bengali. 

Am, ffor all the poets) — Between 22 anrl .‘10 years nn 
the 1st June 1962, rSaxable for candidates possessing 
exeentionallv high qualificatums and for persons holding 
snhstanti've a|ipointmcnt in the Education Department, 
West Bengal. 

(f) One Assistant Professor of H ‘stology and Embryo- 
logy, Bengal Veterinary College, In th ® w ® 8 * 100**0 

Veterinary 8ervlce, Post permanent. Pay. Hs. .UK) .U) 
^900 (K V B after Kth and 16th stages) per month pins 
hotw rent allowance as admissible under the rules. 

Qualifications: Essential -(i) M.RJ'.V.S. or a 111,1 V"’ 
Bitv degree in Veterinary Beienee or a Kecvnd class 
Master’s degree m Zoology, (ii) Three years’ leaching or 
research experience in Animal Km bryology or Animal H 
tolocv Dsslrablo — (i) Combination of teaching and 

research experience; <ii) Knowledge of Bengali— -written 
and spoken. Ago: Between 25 and 55 years on .list Decem- 
ber 1§62 relnxable in the ca.se of candidates 
exceptionally high qualifications or for 
substantive appointment, under the Central o 
Government. 

Ago Concession 

The upper age limit tor all the posts is relnxahle by 
fire vears lor Scheduled Castes /Tribes and up to 4.> years 
for displaced persons from Pakistan. 

A candidate who before the 15th August 1917, was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account ot 
his/her activities in connection with the country s stiuggle 
for independence, not being convicted of an offence indi- 
cating moral turpitude, shall be entitled tv n concession in 
respect of the upper t*go limit. The concession granted 
will he count to the exact, period of detention, imprison- 
ment, internment or externincnt suffered up to a maximum 
of four years. 

Apply to Secretary with a Treasury < 'baton of Rs. 5 
under head “XXI -Miscellaneous-- Receipts of Public- 
Service Commission, West Bengal or «, Crossed Postal 
Order of Rs. 5 |>avable to “Secretary, Puhhc Service ( om- 
mission, West Bengal”. Overseas candidates may deposit, 
their application fees with the High Commission of India 
or the Indian Embassy, as the case may be. Particulars 
and prescribed application forms obtainable from the office 
of the Commission, Anderson House (ground floor) , Alipore, 
Caleutta-27, personally or on sending a self-addressed 


large envelope with postage stamp of 35 nP. and the 
name of the post superscribed on the envelope. Inoee who 
intend to take application forms and/or submit the appli. 
cations personally should do so between 10-15 ®.m. and 
;UX) p.m. on full working days and between lO-lo a.m. and 
12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 

Closing data— Tha 20th Juno 1002. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Alipore, the 17th May 1962. 


IN THE COURT OF THE 8UB-JUDQE AT A8AN80L 
Insolvency Case No. 15 of 1002 

Petitioner: Raghu Bowri, son of late Kisto Bowri, bv 
caste Hindu, by occupation service, residing at Ham- 
ch»ndra Dangal, police-station Kulti, district Burdwan. 

IT is hereby notified that the abovenamed petitioner has 
applied to be adjudged an insolvent. The Court has regis- 
tered that application and fixed 18th June 1962 for th§ 
hearing thereof. 

N. C. DATTA, Sub-Judge. 

(550 — 1) 


DISTRICT PURUMA 

IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
PURULIA 

Insolvency Case No. 6 of 1000 

In the matter of Guru Charan Mahato, eon of late Bhadu 
Mahato, bv caste Kurmi, by occupation cultivation, 
of Chepuatola Karmatard, police-station Manbar,ar. 
post office Kashidi, district Punilia. 

NOTICE is hereby given that the abovenamed applicant 
has been adjudged an insolvent hv an order of this Court, 
dated the 5th May 1962 with direction to apply for hit 
discharge within cme year. 

( 570 - 1 ) 


IN THE COURT OF THE MUN8IF AT JAMSHEDPUR 
Monty Suit Ho. 330 of 1001 

Sakti Pftda Mnklierjee rrf Silgora, Jamshedpur, Plainti* 


versus 


(1) Sndhir Kumar Chattopudh.vay of village (iopaEpn- 
district Ihirffwan (West Bengal). 

(2) Dhurjntinath Chattopadhaya of village Nachajw*li» 
pcdice-station Bolepur, district Birhhum (IT 
Defendants. 

WHEREAS the abovenamed plaintiff has instituted * 
against the defendants tor recovery of Rs. l.t ^ 
(Rupees two thousand and two hundred 
been fixed for hearing oil 2nd June 196*.. ^ 

The defendants are hereby required to appear 
above court on the date to answer the 
which the snit will be disposed of ex parte. 

KASHI NATH PRASAD, Mimw* 
(574-1 


nvt n] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 31, 1962 


247 


M THE COURT OF THE MUN8IF AT JAM8HEOFUR 
Money Suit No. ITS Of 1BBO 

^ Mur t,v, son of D. Krishna Ohandram, by caste 
Hindu, bv occupation business, proprietor of Messrs. 
Murtv\t Sons, at Kaliniati Road, police-staiton Sakchi, 
jauisliedpur, district Singhbhum, Plaintiff, 
versus 

i) Messrs. Bhafat Transport Agency, Transport and 
Public Carriers, having its Head Office and lorry stand 
a t 0 Mnehua Bazar Street. Calcutta, and Branch Office 
at the house of S. X. Sinha. Kasidih, police-station 
SiM.cbi. Jamshedpur Railway Station, Tatanagar, dis- 
trict Singhbhum, (2) Sardar Sital Singh, proprietor of 
Messrs. Bharat Transport Agency, father’s name not 
known to the plaintiff, by creed Sikh, by occupation 
business, at present carrying on business n>t 0 Medina 
Bazar Street, Calcutta, Defendants. 

(VHKREAS the ahovenamed plaintiff has instituted the 
il,i)Vciiot.ed «uit against the defendants for the recovery 
,1 |{s. 2,277.23 nP. on account of damages tor breach of 
■out ra'cl, and whereas the defendants have not yet entered 
ipiipiiriuice in the said suit to contest the claim of the 
jtuiuliH m spite of summons issued from this court, the 
ieteiuiunts are hereby given notice to appear in this court 
in pel son or by a- pleader duly instruct ed by them on the 
|iith day cv| June ltHi2 at GJ10 to answer the claim. In 
[Idimlt ol their appearance on the date mentioned above 
|he suit will he heard and determined in their absence. 

i tiiveu under my hand and the seal of this court this 
||ie 24 th day of Mav 1902. 

KASHI NATH PRASAI), Munsif. 

(575 — 1) 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
IN INSOLVENCY 

NOTICE OP ADJUDICATION ORDER 

No. 18 Of 1961 

le. Hum Lakshman Prosad, formerly residing and carry- 
ing on business under the name and style ot Mitra 
Eleclric Company at No. 5, Nnntnlla Chat, Street 
w it Inn *1 ho town of Calcutta, and now residing and 
rnrmng on business at No. 4. Mott Lane in Calcutta 
nloresaid— Kv pnrte tlie credit w. 

Irwbtoi’s Advocate — Shri S. K. Bose, Supreme Court 
Advocate. 

tlie IJtb day of March 11X12, an order was made by 
Hiph (hurt at Calcutta in its Insolvency Jurisdiction 
wiping the ahovenamed as an Insolvent. 

I®— All debts due to the estate should he paid to me. 

M. M. CfTAKRABARTY, 
Official Assignee of Calcutta. 

G Council House Street, Calcutta. 

tefl this 2.‘lrd day of May 19G2. 


NOTICE 

STATE BANK OF INDIA 

Calcutta, May 21, 1902 

A Branch of the Bank was opened at K&limpcmg on the 
7th May 1902, under the charge of Shri A. tt. Dutt, Staff 
Assistant. 

The following appointments on the Bank's staff are 
hereby notified: 

Shri J. B. Mitra, Sub- Accountant, held temporary 
charge of Kharagpur Branch from the 21st Jwiuarv 
to the 1st May 1962 inclusive, vice Shri A. hf. 
Ganguly. 

Shri M. C. Sen, Statt' Assistant, to he Agent, M ulna- 
pore Branch, as from the 20th February 1962, vice 
Shri B. Bos^. 

Shri N. N. Mukherjee, Staff Assistant, to be Agent, 
Ccmtai Branch, as from the 12th April 1902, vice 
Shri B. K. Mittra. 

Shri D. K. Ohakraborty, to be Clerk-in-Ohar^e, Mai 
Sub-Pay Office (under Jalpaiguri Branch), as irom the 
20th March 1902, vice Shri R. C. Pal. 

Shri A. K. Paul, to he Clerk-in-Charge, Salkia Pay 
Office (under Howrah Branch), as from the 30th 
March 1902, vice Shri S. K. Mitra. 

Shri B. N. Sinha, Sub- Accountant, held temporary 
charge of Cossipore Pay Office (under Sham bazaar 
Branch, Calcutta) Irom the close of business oil the 
9tli to the commencement of business cm the 2.3rd 
April 1902, vice Shri M. M. Riov Ohomlbury. 

Shri S. K. Mitra, to be Sub-Accountantdn-Cbarge. 
Chittaraujan Pay Office (under Asansol Branch), ae 
irom the 27th April 1902, vice Shri N. R. Chowdhury. 

By order, 

B. K. BLACKER, 
Secretary and Treasurer. 

(573—1) 


PUBLIC NOTICE 

NATIONAL 8AVING8 ORGANISATION, WEST BENQAL 

IT is notified tor general information that Certificate of 
Authority No. 11992, dated 17th November 190J, issued in 
tavour of Shri Provash Kumar De of 20 Bhuttacharjee 
Para Lane, Santragachi, Howrah, has been lost by him 
and the Government oi India would no longer he liable for 
claims arising out of transactions through this lost Certi- 
ficate of Authority. 

D. C. BANERJEE, 

Dy. Regional National Savings Officer, 
West Bengal. 

The 21st May 19G2. 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
IN INSOLVENCY 


COMPANY PETITION No. 98 OF 1901 

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 


NO. 23 of 1960 

R6. r Ainslev George McGrath 

^ K ,ven that an Order of Court was made 
lolunii i ,ruar > T 1902 directing that tlie ahovenamed 
; lHi be discharged subject to his consenting to a 
t u /JL. , ^ being passed against him in favour 
flKla Assignee and the debtor do pay the said 
»[ lf . ln an,0 »Ht by monthly instalment of Rs. 80, eom- 
Un K Lom February 1902. 

Ih( 

'• 'aid Order was completed on the 11th April KHSi.'. 


^imcii House Street, 
( “ tla ’ May 1962. 


M. M. OHAKRABARTY, 
Official Assignee. 


In 

In 

In 


Ordinary Original civil JurMletlon 

0 

the matter of sections 433(f) and 439 ol Lhe Companies 
Act, 1956 

and 

the matter of Messrs. Bhuhan Mohan Shaw Estate 
Private Limited 

and 

the matter of Radha Human Shaw & Ors. 


NOTICE is hereby given that a petition for the winding- 
up </f the ahovenamed company by the High Court at 
Calcutta was on the 25th day of May 1901 presented to 
the said Court bv the said Shri Radha Raman Shaw, Shri 
Subodh Kumar &haw, Shri Sukumar Shaw and Shri Sunil 
Kumar Shaw all of No. 9/5, Dr. Suresh Sarkar Road, 


248 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. MAY 31, 1962 


[Part | 


Calcutta-14, all shareholders of the abovenamed company 
and that tne eaid petition is directed to be heurd before 
the Court on the 21st day of May 1962. 

Any creditor, contributory or other person desirous of 
supporting! or opposing the milking of an order on the 
eaid petition should send to the petitioners or their 
attorney notice of his intention signed by him or his 
attorney or advocate with his name and address, bo as to 
reach the petitioners or their attorney not later than five 
days before the date fixed for hearing of the petition, and 
appear at the hearing for the purpose in person or by 
his attorney or advocate. A copy of the petition will be 
furnished by the undersigned to any creditor or contri- 
butory on payment of the prescribed charges for the same. 

Any affidavit intended to he ueod in opposition to the 
petition should he filed in Court, and a copy served on 
the petitioners or their attorney, not less than five days 
before the date fixed for the hearing. 

AJIT KIJMAR MUTER, 
Attorney for the petitioners abovenumed, 
8/2 Hastings Street, 
Calcutta-1. 

(556—1) 


L08T 

THE GOVERNMENT PROMISSORY NOTE No. CA 045 «h, 
of the three per cent. First Development loan of I97(u? 
for Rs. 1,400 originally standing in the name of Umas u d/ 
Sen, the proprietress, by whom it was never endorsed t<! 
anv other person, having been lost, notice is hereby 
that paymont of the above note and the interest thereiin^ 
have been stopped at the Public Debt Office, Reserve BaLt 
oi India, Calcutta, and that application- is about t 0 . j 
made for the issue of duplicate in favour of the p r J 
prie tress. The public are cautioned against purchasing J 
otherwise dealing with the abovementioned security. 

Signature of the Advertiser: (Sd.) Umasashi Sen. 

Residence: Village and post office Matiari, dietnri 
Nadia. 

(48Mi 


ANIL CHANDRA SEN, LL.B., intends to be enrolled a 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(42M)| 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIE8 ACT, 1056 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF HARLALKA BROTHER8 PRIVATE 
LIMITED (IN LIQUIDATION) 

(Notice pursuant to section 485 of the Companies Act, 1956) 

NOTICE is hereby given that the following special resolu- 
tion is passed at a meeting of the members of the Com- 
pany held on the 14th March 1962 at No. 7, Ramkumar 
Kakshit Lane, Calcutta-7 : 

“Resolved that the Company is unable to pay its 
debts and that there are no sufficient assets with the 
Company and the Company is unable to carry on its 
business and therefore it is unanimously agreed and 
further resolved that the Company he sent into the 
Creditors Voluntary Windnrg up”. 

PHULCHAND HARLALKA, 
Chairman. 

(571-1) 


GOVIND PRASAD SHARMA, LL.B., intends to 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

< 427 ^ 


A SIM KUMAR MITRA, LL.B^ intends to be enrolled ; 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(428 — I 


MONORANJAN ROY, LL.B., intends to be omullM in a| 
Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 

(42M 


BAlUUNARAYAN .SIiR, LL.B , intends to be enrolleJ 1 
an Advocate of tbo Oalontta H ich Court. 

<43^ 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, 1BB8 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF BENGAL PROVINCIAL RLY. CO. 
LTD. (IN VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION) 

Members’ Voluntary Winding Up 

(Notice of appointment of Liquidator pursuant to 
section 516) 

Name of Company: Bengal Provincial Rly. Co. Ltd. 

Name of Business: Railway Operation. 

Address of Registered Office: Magra (district Hooghly). 

Names and Addresses of Liquidators: Shri A. K. 
Basu, Shri B. Mitra, 6 Hastings Street, Calcutta-1. 

Date of Appointment: 5th May 1962. 

By whom appointed: Shareholders. 


SHRI SAUMYENDRALAL BANDYOPADHYAY, U 
intends to join as an Advocate in the Calcutta High f° u 

( 431 - 


.1 YOTi SADHUKHAN, M.Com., LL.B., intends to 

«« A -1. liicL Cmirf 



PR. A NAB KUMAR MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B.. 
he enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta Hig fi 

(433 


( 572 — 1 ) 



Pakt II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 31, 1962 


249 


iHBi P HIB ENDRA KUMAR MAZUMDER intends to be 
fitted as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 434 — 4 ) 


NIRODBARAN BHATTACHARYYA, LL.B., intends to 
^ enrolled as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

( 435 — 4 ) 


PRANAB KRISHNA DAS, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
|g an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 

( 436 — 4 ) 


PRAPHULLA CHANDRA MUKHERJEE, M.A., B.L., 
intends to be enrolled ae an Advocate, of Cal. High Court. 

( 437 — 4 ) 


SHRI NIRENDRA NATH SEN GUPTA, LL.B., intends to 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 438 — 4 ) 


DEBNATH MUKHOPADHYAY M.A., LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of tne Calcutta High Court. 

( 444 — 4 ) 


I, DILIP KUMAR GHOSH, intend to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 445 — 4 ) 


ABIJL HOSSAIN, LL.B., intends to he enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 

( 446 - 4 ) 


DAYAL CHANDRA BANDYOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends 
w> be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High C'ouit. 

( 447 — 4 ) 


*^m£P NATH PRASAD BOOBN A, LL.B., intends to be 
e( l as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

" • ,( 448 - 1 ) 


TRILOCH AN MARAPATRA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as un Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

( 449 — 4 ) 


SUNIL RANJAN SARKAR, LL.B., intends to be.eurolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Couit. 

(- 156 * - 4 ) 


SUNIL CHANDRA M UK HER. IKE, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Couit-. 

( 451 - 4 ) 


SAROJ KUMAR CH ATTKRJKK, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 452 — 4 ) 


SUBRATA GUPTA, LL.B., intends to ho enrolled as an 
Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court 

( 463 — 4 ) 


BALA DEB MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends to be 
cm oiled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 454 — 4 ) 


SR I M AIM MAN1SHA S1L, LL.B., intends to he enrolled 
as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

( 455 — 4 ) 


SI! NIL KUMAR CHAUDHURT, LL.B., intends to he 
enrolled as an Advocate o(' the Calcutta High Court.. 

( 456 — 4 ) 


RADHA RAMAN PAT., B.L., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate^ ol the Calcutta High Couit. 

( 457 - 4 ) 


A JIT KUMAR CH A Kit ABA RTJ , LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

( 458 — 1 ) 


SACHIDULAL BAN IK. LL.B., intends to be enrolled a* 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


,( 459 — 4 ) 


250 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 31, 1962 


SHRI CH1TTAR ANJAN TAPADAR, LL.B.. intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(460—4) 


SRIMATI MANJULA SEN, LL.B.. intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(464—4) 


RADHA KANTA HE, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(473—4) 


SHYAM SUNDER SANG AN ARIA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(474—4) 


PR A SUN KUMAR MUKHOPADH YA Y, LL.B., intends 
to be enrolled us an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(475—4) 


DHIRENDRA NATH BASAK, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(476-4) 


8AMARENDRANATH MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B., in- 
tends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 

(477—4) 


JL 


RAMAPRASAD TARAPHDAR, M.A., LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(478—4) 


BIMAL BANDHIT BHOWMIC, M.Oom., LL.B., intends 
to be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(479—4) 


ARUN PROKASH SIRCAR, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(480 — 4) 


AMAL KUMAR SEN, M.A., LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
an Advocate at the Calcutta High Court. 


IPart ij 

l 

11 A KKKK1SH N A SAHARA Y, LL.B., intends to i* 
enrolled as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 08 

(490—4} 


RATHINDRA NATH CHATTOPADHYAY, M.Com., LL.B 
intends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court. ’ 

( 491 — 4 ) 


ANADI PRASANNA GHOSH, LL.B., intends to )* 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(492-4) 


BASIJDKB BISWAS, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(493 4' 


SHRI PROTIP BEJOY PAL intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 494 — 4 ) 


SHRI AMAL KUMAR BASU, LL.B., intends to ho 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Comt. 

( 495 — 4 ) 


SHRI AMARESH CHANDRA CHAKRABARTY, LL 11 , 
intends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court. 

(496—4) 


SAURYABIKAS BASU, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 497 - 4 ) 


HARIPRASAD SHARMA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as un Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(498—4) 


DINABANDHTJ MANDAL, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(499-4) 


BIMANKANTl BASD, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(606-4) 


(489—4) 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 31, 1962 


251 


rH] 


4^* 

lAN-fKAYAN .IAS, 1,1,. II., intend; to lie cm oiled as 
Jvouitc oi the Calcutta Hi^h Cuuit. 

<501 - I) 


DKItKNPi: \MOHAN \1 V KIIOPA DH V \ V, LL.H 
to he cm oiled n s an Aihuiate ol the ( aleutta Hi^li 


intends 
l Oil! t. 


<517- if 


x A K l> A S J5AGCIM, LL.IC, intend- lo he eniolled ;»> 
'Locate of tlu* Calcutta 1 1 >;;h C< m i 

(507 - I) 


midi; Kid! \n iuitha, ll.h ,..i»n,u t<> 

an AiImh.iIc ol the (’aleutta Ki^li Couit. 


he eniolled 


as 


(518-4) 


L\l>lvV NAIM PAT L, LL.Ii.. intends to he enrolled 
Advocate ol the Calcutta Mijj;!i Couit. 

(. 108 — 4 ) 


A80K Kl M Al? 

\ < 1 \ oca i ■ o| l he 


1IOI*, LL.Ii., intend’ to he enrolled as 
( aleutta High Court. 


an 


(5104) 


UISWAN ATM CHATTUKA.I, LL.fi, intends to 1 m 
as all Advocate ol Calcutta III •Mi Court. 


(51)0—4) 


A M I V A l!A NIMII 1 SI N II A , ld,.l!.. ml.n.K lo bo onrollod 
•' • 1,11 A.h ol I ho < »l, -ti (.lit IIikIi Court,. 

(.'>20 , 4 ) 


,ll>\ AN \TH A MUTIH SVMI. |,l. |; |.„ i,o 

i'il .1. :.n Alhoo.ilo ol tbo C.il, 111 1 :i Ili;.|i Couij, 

(.VI 0—4) 


-'ll cm win: \ mas. u, i; . mi, i„ ,„oiio.i 

IiImhmIo ol t lie* Culciitl.i llioli Court. 

(VI I - .| l 


M;(»K i:\ ATM M UKMLIU KK Ploadoi , intends to ho on 
lelleil as an Advocate m tlu* Cideulla liar Council 

(o2J- 4) 


I XPKNDK \N \KAYAN HAY ( l|( >\V DM 1 1 It Y, LL B 
"'h nd, to he enrolled a., an Advocate, Cal IlijJi Cmiit. 

(525-4) 


111 IMLW COCK SMtkAK. LL It , inteiul lo hi 
1,1 a., an Advoeaie ol the Ca.'ti.ila llijili Court. 


I» \ s l Midi Sll.. LL.Ii., intend,, to* he enrolled a: 
Advocate, Calcutta Hi^h Court 


( 51 Li — | ) 


(524- 4) 


^ h\li L 1 LVIAK LL iL, intend lo he enrolled as an 
,M, ‘ ol lli ( . ( Cilciil la 1 1 1 ; * 1 1 ( ’oil* I 

(515-4 > 


^' s I'^ll MAITKA, LL l> mlcmh to In < moiled ;u 
oi the (’aleutta Mi-li Com 

(511 — i > 


// 1 'SAD MODI. LL.I5. ml« uds to la 1 omollid 
<>l the Calcutta Mi^h Court 

(515—4) 


SU lill \SK 1 1 Al A H- PAL, LL.Ii., intends to he enrolled an 
,ui \ 1 1 v oca*l c of the Calcutta Mij.’,h Com t 

( 552 - 4 ) 


MCKTIWTIl MPKIIOPADHYAY, LL li , intends to bo 

•'Uiolicd as an Advocate ol the Calcutta lj|;'i> Court. 

( 555 - 4 ) 


IMP \K KI’.MWt l!’\Y, LL.II, intends to he enrolled as 
in \dvneale of < lie (’aleutta Mi^h Court,. 

( 554 — 1 ) 


C r ' l: „' N '^j H aiiu;rmui:t t,i, is.. intend* to im 
n Advocate of the Cahu tin High Court 


>A( JJ INMH A KtlMAU GHOSH. LL IL intend* to ho 
enrolled uy tin Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(51&-— 4) 


(A36-4) 



THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 31, 1962 


fPAm 


HAM ADHAR MISHKA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

( 536 — 4 ) 


hlUIDIIAUl KTJNDU, M.Oom. f LL.B., intends t 
rolled a-s an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court 


intends t „ ^ 


(•>n 


SHRl I) (JR Ci A PADA GTJHA, LL.B., intends to be enroll- 
ed as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 537 — 4 ) 


GIRIDHAR'I LALL SHARMA, LL.B. 
rolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta 


'm£t 0 £ * 


( 016 . 


SHR1 SAMAR KUMAR BANKRJKE, LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 538 — 4 ) 


DWMENURA l,m 
rolled as an Adv 


— LApJVALi, LL.15., intends to L j 
ate oi the Calcutta High Court * 

(54 


SHKI SUNIL RANJAN BAN KIM EE, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 530 — 4 ) 


ANIMKSII DAS, LL.B., intends to bo 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


enrolled as 

rife 


SHRl KAKTICK CHANDRA WITT, LL.B., intends to he 

enrolled as an Advocate ol Calcutta High Court l»A fr,I\ DR A NATH CH AK.RA VARTY LL B mniw 

(510 1) 1,0 m,, ' olie<I !,t > «« Advocate ol the Calcutta High (J. 

(■W 


SHRl NIRMVL KUMAR 1 SAHA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate ol Calcutta High Court. 

( 541 — 4 ) 


sum 

as an 


BJSWANAIH SEN, LL.B., intends to ben 
Advocate oi the Calcutta High Conn. 


SHRl TAR \ PADA DUTTA , LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of Calcutta* High Court. 

( 542 — 4 ) 


BIKHI'TI IS I II ISA N [SHA CM IK, LL.B, 
on rolh'd a,s an Advocate of the Calcutta 


intend- 11 
High (‘(HUt- 


Simi BIMAL KAN.IAN ROYCHOWDHUIU intends to be 
enmllctl as an Advocate ol Calcutta High Court. 

( 543 — 4 ) 


■'•'IT KCAIAB I’RASAI). J.I., Jt. ini, -nils to be f«'« 
us ill! Advocate »l tin- Calcutta High Court 

( 5 ) 3 - 


SHRl IUMAL BAND HIT BHADOR1, M.A. (Com.). LL.B., 

intends to be enrolled as an Advocate of Cal. High Court. SDDHAMAY DAS, LL.B.. intends to bo cmollcd 

.... ,, Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 644 — 1 ) (o 



Part II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 31, 1962 


253 


SANTOSH CHANDRA GUPTA, LL.B., intends io be 
enrolled ns an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 


£ MKI WAimANATn CHAKRA BARTI, LL.B., intends to 
he enrolled as an Advocate ot Calcutta High Court. 


( 566 - 4 ) 


( 563 — 4 ) 


HIMADRINATH MUKHOPADHYAY. intends to be 
cniolhnl ab an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 


SHRI NANDALAI* MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends to 
he enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 


( 567 — 4 ) 


( 664 - 4 ) 


SYKI> MOHAMMED MASUD, LL.B., intends to be en- 
rollcd as an Advocate of the Calcutta* High Court. 


SHIH SA1YKNDRA NATH DTTTTA, LL.B.. intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 


( 568 — 4 ) 


(665 — 4 ) 




v|iiM TAIMTB1KAS DEB, LL.B. intends to be enrolled 
;i^ an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


SHH1 BEN AY KUMAR SAHA, M.A. LL.B 
he enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High’ 


intends to 
Court. 


(669 - 4 ) 


( 566 - 4 ) 


-Uhl SYAMAIi KUMAR HA JR A, LL.B., intends to be 
cm oiled as an Advocate o'i the High Court at Calcutta. 


SHUT A, ITT KUMAR CHATTOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends 
to be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


( 560 — 4 ) 


( 567 — 4 ) 


NAUIUHADUR KHARGA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


SHR1 SUNIRM AL PRAT1HAR . M.A., LL.B., intends to 
he enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 


( 661 — 4 ) 


( 568 - 4 ) 


'Hid A. I IT KUMAR SINHA ROY, LL.B., intends to be 
•uu oiled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 


BA HINDU A NATH RAY, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
an Advocate oi the Calcutta High Court. 


,< 662 - 4 ) 


WO— 4) 


254 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 31, 1962 


[Part ii 


THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA 


Notice for Sale under section* 118 and 119 of the Calcutta Port Act III of 1890 (B.C.) 

NOTICF i, htrr'l.v k'iv.'i. Unit tin- li.il.il, I V of ,).«■ for I lie umlcnn.nlW.I k'oo.ls <>x. the iin,l^nr.rntio„ Ki 

modified under C/21(ll )/l> I of 18th August 1901. 


Steamer's name. 


Date of landing 


Marks and n timbers. 


Ouantitv an<J description. 


Brest . 

Hereford Bence 
Mariokerk 
Travon 


1950. 

1 71 h May 

271 h .lime 
10th .luly 
814/56 


Nil 

Nil 

1 1 lied on end 
Nil 


7 bundles and a quantity of she^i 
cuttings. 

17 pieces rails. 

2 bundles angle's. 

5 pieces steel sleepers. 


Blair Olora 

Culross 

Siena 


1957. 


11 Mi August 

. Nil 

1 2t It November 

Nil 

289/57 

. Nil 


00 pieces angles. 

1 1 pieces Btnlway crossings. 
2 pieces plates. 



1 958. 


Nino Bike 

St b February 

. . Nil 

Manheer 

M about 

Empire Mere'bunt 
Afne'Hii Sky 
lnel. Sple'iidour 

Out t ('idols 
(Jolde'iifcls 

Mathura 

Elsharth-Warel 

Trojn 

Ditto 

Mombassa 

1 9th July 

30t h July 

2Nth August 

4 Hi Se'ptombeT 

2 Itli < tetober 

201 Ii November 
22nd De'eenibe'r 

2 Mb 1 )eeembe*r 
291 b De'eenibe'r 

7 38/ 58 

738/58 

1047/58 

. . Nil 
..Nil 
.. Nil 

Nil $ • • 

IMIS.V I) 1 lid 19 Cal. . . 

MIX/DCOK Cliittaraii jan Loni IVenK 
DLM CnJ. . 

..Nil 

..Nil 

IISI’L E/4/1/1 120 1 14732 Beairk.'lla 
HSPL 1 1 1019 178/1 V/9302 Kemrkclla 
..Nil 


1 82 piece, channels and struct in id 
packages. 

1 piece steel bar. 

17 piece's steel sleepers. 

2 pieces railH 

I piece steel sleeper . 

II piece's pipes. 

0 piece's tubes. 

17 bundle's billets. 

29 pieces 1 rough h.ir.n 

0 piece's mils. 

1 e*rate iron pack i.ge*. 

It iron pae'k.ig' ' . 

108 piece's trough bars. 


Linderfols 
Morelia 
H. Schroder 
Kandonteh 
Mahout. 
Maskehyu 
Norwik 
Ditto 
Markbor 
•lalakala 
Ditto 

.1 a 1 a.n i ay u r 
Tasmania 
.lala\ iliar 
Con melee \s 
Makratm 
1 )it to 

Jlid. lie 'source 
Mae hard a 

.lalavish\ a jye *t l 
Mikoina Mar. i 
Belocean 

Loninogorsk 

Hive Maru 
.laiavikram 
Ditto 

Leninogorsk 
Dil to 
Ditto 
Tawali 
J fthunay ur 
Ugolji 
Ditto 
KybfeU 
Uri*k 


1959. 

13th January 
I Itli I'Ybmnry 

I 7 1 1 1 February 
ITtli February 
21st May 
25th 9 une 
28tli June 
2St b .1 line 
271 1 1 July 
281 Ii August 
2X1 h August 
291b August 
IlOlb August 
jOtb September 
1*7 1 1 1 ( let ohi'f* 
lire I Nove'mber 
!lr< I No\ ember 
I 1 1 h \e»ve'mbe*r 
25th Novell J mt 

2Ilrel De'ee'inhcr 
I Jth July 
159,59 
1191/59 
082/59 
7118/59 
7118/59 
872/59 
872/59 
872/59 
930/59 
I 129/59 
1104/59 
1164/59 
1108/59 
1453/59 


Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

S! ) 1/7/264 812 SW/IIHO/KWT Ends Yellow 

ISBN SD- 1 1 2/3374 Ye llow paints 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

S<>2/ 18/3582 llcm No. 27 CLYY Cal 

SD2/17/35S1 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

IS< II or Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

ST-4 

Nil 

Nil # • * • * • 

Nil •*« 


15 piece's channels. 

A cjuaritity of steel hilletA. 

20 piece 'i pip' L 
20 pie*e*ns rails. 

I piece' 2 se'Ct if)U. 

50 pieces e'liamie U. 

1 l pie*e*e'S plate ,. 

1 bundle angl' 1 ' (loose). 

1 piece' pipe. 

3 bundles angles. 

1 j ’ 1< *Ct' |e>lst. 

0 piee'OS rails. 

A quantity of loo .o rod,-,. 

3 bundles round. . 

1 piece crossing sleeper. 

2 iron pae*ka.gos. 

4 piece's pasts. 

11 pieces angle's. 

3 bundle's and a e|uautily <>f ,,,0Sf 
roels. 

2 pieces joists. 

13 pie'ce*s plfttcf- . 

75 pienuss billets. 

41 bundles ereals* 

10 piece's pipes. 

I pioco beam. 

I piece billet. 

45 bunelle>s coil.-.. 

9 pioet5s joists. 

1 bundle angle**. 

2 bunelles strips. 

1 8 pieces billets. 

39 pieces platos. 

3 piocos plates. 

181 piece* billets. 

9 bundles coils. 



Past II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 31, 1962 


255 


Steamer’s name. 


groampork 

jalftgovind 

punkony Bocou 

Subador 

Magdapur 

Maidan 

Eastern Huso 

Julajagjivan 

Mulakand 

Indian Security 

jytnii>ura 

Indian Reliance 
Ditto 

Sehwarzonfels 

Markbor 

Ditto 

I’irla 

Maihar , 
Nuuhison Maru 
S/o West Bengal 
Indian Rosourco 
New Estiminister 
City. 

Ditto 

Anjali 
‘ Ditto 
Ditto 

Julujagji van 


Date of landing. 

1960 

8th January 
24th January 
10 th February 
3rd March 
14th March 
11th April 
14th April 
1st May 
7th May 
21st May 
23rd May 
20th May 
20tli May 
10th dune 
23rd June 
23rd J une 
24th Juno 
7th July 
10th July 
1 nth August 
1 0th September 
20th September 

20th September 
10th October 
10th October 
10th October 
20th October 
8th December 


Now sera 

J 2 th De 

IVutukola 

277/00 

Ditto 

277 /00 

Iml. Tradition 

482/00 

M.iuchunu 

503 0i0 

.Inlaniayur 

5 L 0/00 

Lika 

061 / 00 

Eastern Saga 

007 /CO 

Llglenra^lk 

701 /HO 

.lalagofial 

048/00 

Ebtrol.li Warards 

070/00 

Ditto 

070/00 

Ditto 

970/00 

Yidivapro’-a 

1003/00 

Nikhona 

1033/00 

Cluika 

1051/00 

\ widen 

1214/HO 

*.J\J \njah 

1203/00 

kail aria 

1 408/00 

l). i’o/.lairosky 

1007 /f»0 

Ni*kn 

1 S 1 0/00 

Ditto 

1810/00 


Marks and numbors. 


Nil 
Nil 
Nil 

Parris 060/00 CAC R * U 
lO Ltd. BOO Ltd. Cal. 

ISM Con trait SD-S/21/4023 TEX BWT Cal 
Nil 
MILL 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 

BOH/Cal/381 J C>04 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 

Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 

SI) 0 1 20/427 EB Cal. 

Nil 

Yellow paint 
Nil 
N.l 

MER/SD-0/1 1/4030 
Red paint end 
Nil 
Nil 

JvDSCul. .. 

Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
N.l 

ISD one end Red paint* 

NER ENDS Yellow 
Nil 

ER Calcutta BBI Cal 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 


Quantity and description. 


3 pieces pipes. 

1 bundle rod. 

A quantify of piece billets. 

4 bundles crossings. 

3 pieces pipes. 

11 pieces / Sections. 

» coils win*. 

0 pieces plates. 

3 pieces rails. 

07 pieces rails. 

15 pieces rails. 

0 pieces rails. 

15 pieces Z Sections. 

1 S pieces rails. 

1 piece plate. 

20 pieces rails. 

1 package stool bar. 

08 pieces rails. 

1 bundle plates (loose). 

13 coils wire. 

8 pieces rails. 

25 pieces channels. 

2 bundles bars. 

27 bundles tods. 

14 pieces rods. 

14 faeces rounds. 

2 pieces plates. 

15 pieces rads. 

4 pieces "M. S. plates. 

2 ooi Is strips. 

A quant i t.y ol 1 ods. 

7 faeces joisl s. 

5 pieces bi ll< I ... 

A quantity id piece angles. 

4 pieces japes 

1 bundle sheet. 

1 bundle channel. 

3 bundles rods. 

•1 bundles rod cuttings. 

1 piece rail. 

A quantity of rusty rods. 

8 bundles sheets. 

1 22 bundles mil* . 

I 5 | decos i ail . 

1 3 pieces ii on pa* kage.*-. 

5 pieces rounds. 

5 pieces plates. 

4 1 bundle*, ends. 

10 pieces round bars. 

7 pieces flat burs. 


1001 


Mu ng I a 
Duluio 

Ditto 
a<iI(IhmIm 
Kaleh 
M-i kclva 
luulwik ho l, jky 

* bin A1 nthosoii 
Loi fdore 

Ditto 

Diil>no 
Dinar« 
bni>i 
Ml ruin 

* lulka 


•hilasilton Hall 
Ditto 
^ niunfels 
Nf-lca 

Magnolia 

'D^daxir.i 

^ukhana 

J^cramanto 

Shipper 
Mano Kerk 
w° Bedford 
JJandaaor 
^^galand 


J 0th January 
3lrtt- .January 
31st January 
2nd February 
loth February 
1 7t ii February 
l S til February 
I Oth March 
25th March 
25th March 
31st March 
1st April 
3rd May 
1 1th May 
1 2th May 
18th May 
J 8th May 
30t*h May 
12th June 
2 1 st* J une 
28th June 
5th July 
13th July 
5th August 
1 2th August 
1 3th August 
21&t August 
21st August 


Burn Cnl. . 

Nil 

Nil 

N.l 

Nil 

N.l 

Nil 

Yellow anil Blue paint 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

780, U SCI around 

Nil 

N.l 

Nil 

Nil 

Nd 

Nil 

Nil 

JLBCA W /RM/310 Cal. . 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 


4 7 bundle,, sheet bars. 

3 bundles, eoils rods. 

1 2 coll* rod.*-'. 

1 3 piece* rai f*. 

3 piece* pipe*. 

10 |>'( ci*.; .-.tee | 1 (i(|,- 

4 pieces plate*. 

I S bundle-, i ound liar 
A quant il v <»l iron package* . 

A quant ity ol billet*. 

A quant. 1 1 y of lioop iron. 

8 faeces-, st eel bars. 

I bundle steel plain. » 

5 jneei •*> rnd*<. 

1 pieee plate. 

4 pieces iron wheels. 

30 pieces rings. 

44 pieces mil*. 

1 bundle and 8 pieces flats and bars. 
A quantity of bundles and piccespipes. 

14 pieces M. S. plates. 

31 co Is. 

4 bundle* steel bars. 

J 3 pc ss iron packages. 

A quantity of bundles sheets. 

41 pieces pipes. 

3 pieces plates. 

2 bundles iron packages. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 31, 1962 


[Part n 



1902 


Nidcnfeis 

8th January 

. . Nil 

Eastern Muse 

i Ot.h tJiinuary 

.. JEW Tal. 

Neka 

13th January 

. . HOK/CaI/727— 

9954 

4068 

9738 

Wairimu 

28th January 

Central • Into Lodlo Jute 

Unconnected 

Nil 

Ditto 


Nil 

Ditto 


Nil 

Ditt o 


Nil 

Ditto 


Nil 

Ditto 


Nil 

Ditto 


Nd 

Ditto 


Nil . . 

Tilt to 


Nil 

Ditto 


Nil 

Ditto 


Nil 

Ditt o 


Nil 

Ditto 


Nil 

Ditto 


Nil 

1 iittO 


Nil 

Ditto * 


Nil 

I iitto . . 


Nil 

Ditto 


Nil 

Ditto 


Nil 

Ditto 


Nil 

Ditto 


Nil 

Ditto 


Ken-Ralejgh / W /RIV1 /IT /323 /Calcutta 

Ditto 

, . .... 

Nil 


1 hninHf' rod. 

7X8 j> loot's rolled shoot. ntripH. 

I ))io(*o steel Out. 

I piece sf ool flat . 

I piece steel flat . 

1!) bundles pipes. 

A quantity of billots. 

A quantity of channels. 

A quantity of bundles pipes and till 
A quantity of piece pipes, tubes a 
poleH. 

A quantity of bundles angles. 

.V quantity of pieces angles. 

A quant il\ of bundles rounds. 

A quantity of pieces rounds. 

A quantity of bundles rods. 

A quantity of pieces rods. 

A quantity of bundles plates. 

A quantity of pieces plates. 

A quantity of bundles flat bars. 

A quantity of pieces flat bars 
A quantity of joists and joist, eiittmf 
A quantity of coil strips. 

A quantity of iron sleepers. 

A quantity of rails and rail cutting 
A quantity of bars and bar cutting 
A quantity of boiler plates. 

A quantity of iron package 81 
structural!* of assorted senes » l 
shapes. 

5 eoils strips. 

1 piece chain slmg. 

A. P. MoMAHON. 
Traffic Manage*. 

( 502 * 1 ) 


31st May 1962. 


No. 22 of 1962 


fgistertd No. C207 


(Ealrotta 


®lir 





dazrttr 


fAISTHA 10] 

THURSDAY, MAY 31, 1962 

1 SAKA 1884 


CONTENTS: 



Page. 

State Statistical Bureau — Cost of living Indexes, 

Calcutta, and wholesale prioe index 

for the week ending the 19th May 

1902 .. .. .. 177 — 178 



Caloutta Improvement Trust — Notioo . . 179 



SUPP LEMENT — Official Papers 

imNo. 309 STATE STATISTICAL BUREAU, WEST BENGAL 

TABLE I 

Coat of living Indsxta, Calcutta and wholaiala prica index (week ending 19th May 1962) 


All-India wholesale 

Co«t of living index — Bane : Novemlw, 1950. prioe index*. 


Period. 

r~ 


. . . 

Expenditure level (in Ha.; 

— . 




Base, 

— A — — % 

Converted 


1—100 

- JL 


101—200 


201 — 

- - ■> 

-850 

1952-63. 

with 

November 
1960 as 
base. 


All 

items. 

Food! 

t 

All 

items. 

Food. 

All 

items. 

Food. 


U) 

<*) 

(3) 

(4) 

(6) 

<«) 

0) 

(«) 

<»> 

164 January 

93*9 

88*8 

94*1 

88*4 

94*7 

88*6 


mm 

April 

_ 96*2 

90*4 

95*6 

90*1 

96*3 

90*1 

. . 

, . 

July 

_ 94*0 

89*4 

94*4 

89*6 

94*7 

89*6 

. . 

, , 

October 

_ 95*3 

91*6 

96*3 

91*4 

96*6 

91*3 


* . 


^66 January 

*»• 

90*7 

84-7 

91*1 

64*4 

91*7 

84*6 


# # 

Apnl 

k . 

89*9 

83*0 

90*5 

83*7 

91*2 

84*0 

88*9 

82*2: 

July 

. . 

91*1 

66*6 

91*6 

86* K 

92*0 

86*8 

92*9 

1 86*0 

October 

mt 

96*7 

86*7 

93*9 

89*4 

94*0 

88*0 

90*6 

86*0 


Janaary 


90*9 

84*8 

91*0 

84*0 

91*2 

83*7 

96*3 

88*9 

April 

••• 

96*2 

91*6 

94*8 

90*4 

94*6 

89*6 

100*0 

92*6 

Joly 

■M 

99*6 

98*0 

98*7 

96*3 

97*8 

94*7 

108*5 

96*8 

October 


102*4 

101*3 

100*7 

98*P 

99 *4 

96*9 

100*7 

98*8 


Revised series (Bose : 1962*63) and the corresponding converted series. 


178 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 31, 1^62 


Period. 


( 1 ) 

1967 January 
April 
July 
October 


1968 January 
April 
July 
October 


1969 January 
April 
July 
October 


i960 January 
April 
July 

* October 


1961 January 
February 
March 
April 

June 

July 

Auguat 

September 

October 

November 

December 


All-India wholca*]* 

Coat of living index — Bare * November, 1960. price index*. 



Expenditure level (in Ra.) 



Baae, 

1962-63. 

Convert* 

wilt 

1—100 


101 ' — 900 


201 - 

— S60 


Novambo 








I960 «« 

t * 

Ail 

Food. 

All 

Food. 

' All 

Food. 


baso. 

Hems. 


items. 


items. 




(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

<«> 

(9) 

(7) 

(8) 

(®) 

98 *4 

94*0 

97*0 

91*9 

96 2 

90-3 

107 *3 

00 

100*6 

98-0 

68*9 

96 -6 

97 0 

93*6 

106 6 

9b 

106*0 

106*8 

104*1 

108 -0 

102*7 

100*7 

111*9 

101 

107*6 

107*0 

106*7 

104 0 

104*0 

102*3 

108 -9 

lOu 



106 *0 

101 *8 

103*1 

68-1 

101 *8 

96*4 

106 -O 

0 b 


106*0 

109*1 

104 *4 

100 *2 

103 *2 

97 *9 

107 *4 

00 

€ 

109 *4 

107 *6 

107 *9 

104 *9 

100*7 

102 *6 

114*7 

104 

4 

119*8 

114*3 

111*2 

118*3 

109*8 

108 *6 

116*2 

107 



104*6 

97 *8 

102 *9 

96 *6 

102 *7 

94*6 

112*3 

104 

.. 

106 *8 

100*9 

106*1 

99 *4 

104 *6 

98 *2 

111 *9 

108 


110*4 

108 *3 

109 2 

106*1 

108 1 

104 *0 

116*8 

10 b 

# # 

114*6 

116-0 

118 *0 

113-4 

111 *6 

111 *0 

119*3 

no 



no *4 

108*8 

108 *6 

106 -8 

107 *5 

103 *2 

118*8 

no 

.. 

no -6 

108 *0 

108 *9 

106 -2 

107 *9 

103 -3 

120*6 

ni 


114 *4 

119*9 

112*8 

111 •« 

111*6 

109 *6 

124*7 

115 

a a 

114*4 

113 *6 

113*2 

111*8 

112*2 

110 *4 

126*3 

117 



109 *7 

106*0 

108*7 

JOS *2 

108 *4 

102 *3 

125*6 

116 


110-0 

106-1 

109*6 

104 *3 

109*0 

103 *3 

126*7 

117 


110*9 

106*1 

109 *9 

104 *6 

109 *6 

103 9 

127*6 

118 


112*2 

108*2 

111*4 

107*2 

111*0 

106*6 

126*8 

116 


112-1 

107*8 

111*4 

107*0 

111*0 

106*6 

126*3 

116 


119*7 

110*1 

112*7 

109*1 

112*1 

108*4 

126*9 

116 


116*2 

114*1 

116*1 

113*2 

114-2 

112*2 

128*7 

110 


117*9 

116*8 

116-6 

116-7 

116*6 

114*5 

127*4 

in 


118*0 

116*4 

116*6 

116*2 

115*4 

113*8 

124*6 

115 


119*9 

119*7 

118*2 

119*2 

116*9 

116*7 

124*4 

116 


120*3 

120*4 

118*4 

118-4 

116*9 

116-6 

124 -3 

116 


117*0 

114*6 

116*3 

112*6 

114*1 

111*1 

122*9 

113 


January 

114*4 

110*1 

112*8 

February 

i 

114*3 

100*7 

112*8 

Weak ending 

21 - 4-62 

119*9 

119*1 

117*9 

18 - 4*62 

119*8 

118*8 

1 X 7*8 

6 . 6.62 

120*3 

119-6 

118*3 

12 - 6*62 

119*9 

118*8 

118*0 

19 - 6.62 

119-4 

118*0 

117*5 


108*0 

112*1 

107*0 

123*3 

1 H 

107*7 

112*1 

106*6 

124*3 

116 


117*0 

116*6 

116*4 

123*9 

114 

116*6 

116*4 

114*9 

. . 

*• 

117*6 

116*9 

116*8 


*• 

110*8 

116*7 

115*3 

. . 


116*0 

116*2 

114*6 




"Revfced eeriee (Barn « 1901-66) and the eon* Upending oonverted 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, MAY 31, 1962 


179 


the board of trustees for the improve. 

MENT OF CALCUTTA 


Notice under section 43 of the Calcutta Improvement 
Act, 1911 (Bengal Act V of 1911) 

BUSTEE REHOUSING SCHEME No. X 

1. It is hereby notified, under section 41 of the 
Calcutta Improvement Act, that an Improvement 
Scheme, namely, a Housing Accommodation Scheme, 
for the purpose of affording alternative residential 
accommodation to bustee dwellers who may be 
displaced from their residence by the acquisition of 
bustees by the Trust for Scheme Nos. VI-M (Supple- 
mentary) and VIII-M and other Improvement 
Schemes and to be hereafter known as Bustee 
Rehousing Scheme No. X has been framed by the 
Board of Trustees for the Improvement of Calcutta 
in Constituency No. 16 of the Calcutta Corporation. 

2. The area comprised within and required for 
the execution of the Scheme (shown in yellow verge 
in the plan) measures 7.24 acres more or less and is 
more particularly described below: — 

Boundaries of the land 

On the North: Starting from the south-western 
corner of the premises No. 52 Bagmari Road 
(Mohammedan Burial Ground) running east- 
ward along its southern boundary up to the 
north-western corner of the premises No. 120- 
A, Manicktala Main Road. 

On the East: From this point running southward, 
westward and then southward along the 
western boundary of premises No. 120A, 
Manicktala Main Road to the north-eastern 
corner of the Subsidised Industrial Housing 
Scheme No. IV, within C.I.T. Scheme VII-M. 

On the South: From this point running westward 
along the northern boundary of the Subsidised 
Industrial Housing Scheme No. IV to its north- 
western corner, then southward along its 
western boundary for a distance of 31 feet then 
westward in a straight line for a distance of 


90 feet to a point on the- eastern edge of 120 
feet New C.I.T. Road situated at a distance of 
96 feet to the south-west from the north- 
western comer of the Subsidised Industrial 
Housing Scheme No. IV. 

On the West: From this point running north- 
ward along the eastern edge of 120 feet C.I.T. 
Road for a distance of 104 feet then eastward 
for a distance of 90 ieet to a point situated 
at a distance of 75 feet to the north from the 
north-western corner of the Subsidised Indus- 
trial Housing Scheme No. IV, then running 
northward in a straight line for a distance of 
465 leet to a point situated at a distance of 
98 feet on the south-east from the south- 
western corner of 52, Bagmari Road, then 
westwards for a distance of 90 feet to a point 
on the eastern edge of 120 feet C.I.T. Road 
situated at a distance of 30 feet to the south 
of south-western corner of 52, Bagmari Road, 
then northward along the eastern edge of 120 
feet C.I.T. Road to the starting point. 

3. Particulars of the scheme and a 
map of the area comprised in the 
scheme may be seen at the office of the Calcutta 
Improvement Trust at 10 Netaji Subhas Road, 
Calcutta-1, on week days between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. 
and on Saturdays between 11 a.m. and 12 noon. All 
the lands required for the execution of the scheme 
have already been or will be acquired in connection 
with Calcutta Improvement Trust Scheme No. VII-M. 

Copies of the above documents will be available on 
payment of the following fees: — 

Particulfrs of the scheme— Re. 0.25 nP. 

Plan of the scheme area and layout of the scheme 
— Rs. 1.00 nP. 

4. Objections will be received by the Chairman 
up to 28th June 1962. 

K. SEN, Chairman. 
Dated, Calcutta, the 7th May 1962. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at the West Bengal Government Press, Aiipore. 





tgisUrtJ No. C207 



(Mrulta 





(ferttp 


fAISTHA 17 ] 


THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 1962 


[SAKA IBM 

as s assaga i 


ART IA~ Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India; and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 
and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India" are only 
republished. 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 


New Delhi, the 18th May 1962 
NOTIFICATIONS 

No. 154/ 13/62. —In exercise of the powers con- 
rred by .sub-section (1) of section 13A of the 
epresentation of the People Act, 1950 (43 of 1950), 
it* Election Commission, in consultation with the 
overnment of West Bengal, hereby nominates 
jri S. Dutt-Mazumdar, I.A.S., as the Chrief Electoral 
nicer for the State of West Bengal, with effect from 
k date he takes over charge and until further 
ders. 


By order, 

PRAKASH NARAIN, 

Secy, to the Election Commission. 


New Delhi, the 23rd May 1962. 

^ WB-LA/ 64/ 62(11-0. — In exercise of the 
7 s inferred by sub-rule (5) of rule 89 of the 
‘duct of Elections Rules, 1961, the Election 
hereby cancels its notification 
WB-LA / 64 / 62( 1 ]), dated the 17th April J962. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secy, to the Election Commission, 
India. 

& 


New Delhi, the 30th May 1962 

No. 82/143/62. — Whereas the election of Shri A. 
H. Besterwitch as a member of the Legislative 
Assembly of the State of West Bengal from the 
Madarihat constituency has been called in question 
by an election petition presented under Part VI of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 
1951), by Shri Mahadeo Bhagat, Birpara, district 
Jalpaiguri; 

And whereas the Election Commission has caused 
a copy of the petition to be published in the official 
gazette and has served a copy thereof by post on 
each of the respondents under sub-section (1) of 
section 86 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951 (43 of 1951); 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferr- 
ed by sections 86 and 88 of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby appoints Shri Tapendra Kumar 
Pal, District ]udge, Jalpaiguri, as the member of the 
Election Tribunal for the trial of the said petition 
and Jalpaiguri as the place where the trial of the 
petition shall be held. 

By order, • 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 30th May 1962 

No. 82/ 140/62.-- Whereas the election of Kumar 
Jagadish Chandra Sinha as a member of the Legis- 
lative Assembly of the State of West Bengal from 
the Kandi constituency has been called in question 
by an election petition presented under Part VI of 


102 


THE OALCtTTTA GAZETTE, JOKE 7, 1962 






the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 
1951), by Shri Amalendra Lai Roy, son of Shashi 
Roy, Kandi, post office and police-station Kandn/ 
district Murshidabad; 

And whereas the Election Commission has caused 
a copy of the petition to be published in the official 
gazette and has served a copy thereof by post on 
each of the respondents under sub-section U) of 
section 86 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951 (43 of 1951); \ _ 


> v ^"Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers confers 
i |if sections 86 and 88 of the said Act, the Electj, 
* <3ommission hereby appoints Shri Santosh Kum 
Chakrabortti, District Judge, Bankura, as the niemt 
of the Election Tribunal for the trial of the sa 
petition and Bankura as the place where the trial 
the petition shall be held. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Sec 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the, pfetiers conferr- 
ed by sections 86 and 88 of the said Act/the Election 
Commission hereby appoints Shri Rabindra Nath 
Bhattacharji, District Judge, Murshidabad, as the 
member of the Election Tribunal for the trial of the 
said petition and Berhampore as the place where the 
trial of the petition shall be held. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 


? N#w Delhi, tie 30th May 1962. 

No. 82/71/62. — Whereas the election of ^ 
Abhay Pavla Saha as a member of the Legislam 
Assembly of the State of West Bengal from tli 
Khargram constituency has been called in quests 
by an election petition presented under Part VI y 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (4] c 
1951), by Shri Sudhir Kumar Mandal, Purapari 
police-station Khargram, post office Sabaldaha, j,j 
trict Murshidabad; 


New Delhi, the 30th May 1962. 

No. 82/36/62. Whereas the election of Shri 
Adwaita Mandal as a member of the Legislative 
Assembly of the State of West Bengal from the 
Jaipur constituency has been called in question by an 
election petition presented under Part VI of of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951), 
by Shri Nakul Chandra Sahis, Mauza Bhutam, police- 
station Puncha, post office Bhutam, district Purulia; 

And whereas the Election Commission lias caused 
& copy of the petition to be published in the official 
gazette and has served a copy thereof by post on 
each of the respondents under sub-section (l) of 
section 86 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951 (43 of 1951); 


And whereas the Election Commission has cam 
a copy of the petition to be published in the offic 
gazette and has served a copy thereof by post 
each of the respondents under sub-section (1) 
section 86 of the Representation of the People A 
1951 (43 of 1951); 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers confern 
by sections 86 and 88 of the said Act, the Electa 
Commission hereby appoints Shri Rabindra Nj 
B hattacharji. District Judge, Murshidabad, as t! 
member of the Election Tribunal for the trial of tl 
said petition and Beihampore as the place where ti 
trial of the petition shall be held. 

* By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Se; 


New Delhi, the 19ili May 1992 

No. WR-LA / 1 10 '(52(dO). — fn pursuance* of suh-rule (5) of rule 89 
of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1991, the Election Commission hereby 
notifies the name of the person shown in ('ohimu 1 of the schedule below' 
who having been a contesting candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified in column 2 thereof, 
at the election held in 19(52 has, in accordance with the decision given today 
by the Election Commission unded sub-rule (4) of the said rule, failed to 
lodge any account of his election expenses and will accordingly become 
subject to flu* disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two mouths 
from the date of the said decision. 


Schedule 


Name ot contesting candidate. 


Name of Constituency. 


1 


2 


Shri Sukuinar Cliowdbury, 24/25 Guha Road, 
post office Ghu^uri, district Howrah. 


Bally. 


By Order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secy, to the Election Commission. 



|>A*T fA] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 7, 1962 


103 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1962 

No. WB-LA/147/(>2(Hfi). — In pursuance of sub-rule (f>) of rule 89 
of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1901, the Election Commission hereby 
notifies the name of the jierson shown in column 1 of the schedule below 
who having been a contesting candidate for the election to the Wes! Hengul 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified in column 2 thereof, 
at the election held in 1902 has, in accordance wilh the decision giveu tod.iy 
by the Election Commission nnded sub-rule (4) of the **nid rule, failed to 
lodge any account of his election expenses and will accordingly heroine 
subject to the disqualification under clause (r) of sic! ion 7 of tin* 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 , on the expiration of two monllis 
from the date of the said decision. 

•ohedule 

Name of contesting candidate. Name of Constituency. 

1 2 
Shri Sahadeb Baitalik, village Sultanpur, 


post office Sasaty, district Howrah. 


Under 


OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 
SALES TAX, EASTERN DIVISION, NAGPUR. 

(Notification under sub-rule (7) of rule 4-A of the 
Central Sales Tax (Bombay) Rules, 1957.J 

Nagpur, 5th February 1962. 

No. G-CST-ED.4. Whereas it has been reported 
by Messrs. Babu Bhai and Brothers, Kirana 
Merchant, Dana flazar, Jalna, holder of R.C. 
No. BOM/ 43 G/217, dated 12th February 1959 
under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (LXX1V of 
1956): that the declarations bearing Nos. D / 812826 
to D/812850 issued to him under sub-rule (4) of 
section 8 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, has 
been lost. It is hereby declared under rule 4-A(7) 
of the Central Sales Tax (Bombay) Rules, 1957, that 
the said declarations should be considered as invalid. 

P. V. PATANKAR, 

Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax, 
Eastern Division, Nagpur. 


Dated 6th February 1962. 

No. G/CST/ED/5. — Whereas it has been reported 
hy Messrs. Gandhi Electric Stores, Ganjakhet, 
Nagpur, holding R.C. No. BOM/36/GJM-4 under the 
Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (LXX1V of 1956), that the 
declaration in form 4< d” bearing Serial No. D031711, 
issued to him under sub-section (4) of section 8 of 
Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, has been lost in 
transit, it is hereby declared under rule 4-A(7) of 
l Jj e Central Sales Tax (Bombay), Rules, 1957, that 
the said declaration in Form M C” should be 
considered as invalid with effect from 3rd December 
1958. 


P. V. PATANKAR, 

Commissioner of Sales Tax, 
astern Division, Nagpur. 


Syampur. 

By Order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Secy, to the Klerlion Commission 

Nagpur, 6th January 1962. 

No. G-CST-ED.216.~- Whereas, it has been reported 
by Messrs. New Chitranjan Stores, Cloth Market, 
Akola, holder of Registration Certificate No. BOM. 38- 
AKL-300 dated 29th June 1957, under the Central 
Sales Tax Act, 1956 (LXXJV of 1956), that the 
Jeclarations bearing Nos. D-415147 and D-4 15150, 
issued to him, under sub-rule (4) of section 8 of the 
Central Sales fax Act, 1956, has been lost, it is 
hereby declared under rule 4-A(7) of the Central 
Sales Tax (Bombay), Rules, 1957, that the said 
declarations should be considered as invalid with 
effect from 1st October 1961. 

P. V. PATANKAR, 

Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax, 
Eastern Division, Nagpur. 


Nagpur, 7th December 1961. 

No. G-CST-ED.23. - Whereas it has been reported 
by Messrs. Gambhirdas Amarchand Brassware 
dealer, Akola, holder of Registration Certificate 
No. BOM.38-AKL-771, dated 28th March 1961 under 
the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (LXXIV of 1956), 
that the declaration bearing No. D.l 044171, issued 
to him under sub-section (4) of section 8 of the 
Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, has been lost in transit, 
it is hereby declared under rule 4-A(7) of the Central 
Sales Tax (Bombay) Rules, 1957, that the said 
declaration should be considered as invalid with 
effect from 4th September 1961. 


P. V. PATANKAR, 

Commissioner of Sales Tax, 
astern Division, Nagpur. 




104 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 7, 1962 


(PART fa 


Nagpur, 7th December 1961. 

No. G-CST-ED.24.— Whereas it has been reported 
by Messrs. Annasa Mahadsa Jain, Subhash Chowk, 
Ward No. 5, Basim (district Akola), holder of 
Registration Certificate No. BOM.38-B$M-407, dated 
17th July 1957, under the Central Sales Tax Act, 
1956 (LXX1V of 1956) that the declarations bearing 
Nos. D.l 169273 and D.l 169274, issued to him, 
under sub-rule (4) of section 8 of the Central Sales 
Tax Act, 1956, has been lost in transit, it is hereby 
declared under rule 4-A(7) of the Central Sales Tax 
(Bombay) Rules, 1957, that the said declarations 
should be considered as invalid with effect from the 
25th February 1961. 


P. V. PATANKAR, 

Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax, 
Eastern Division, Nagpur. 


Nagpur, 7th December 1961. 

No. G-CST-ED.25. -Whereas, it has been reported 
by Shri Krishna Kant lshwardas, Tarkar, of Akola, 
holder of Registration Certificate No. BOM.38-AKL- 
462, dated 24th July 1957, under the Central Sales 
Tax Act, 1956 (LXXIV of 1956), that the declarations 
bearing Nos. D.415181, D.415199, D.415200, issued 

to him, under sub-section (4) of section 8 of the 
Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, has been lost, it is 
hereby declared, under rule 4-A(7) of the Central 
Sales Tax (Bombay) Rules, 1957, that the said 
declarations should be considered as invalid. 

P. V. PATANKAR, 
Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax, 
Eastern Division, Nagpur. 


Nagpur, the 19th January 1962. 

No. G-CST-ED.3-— Whereas it has been reported 
by Messrs. Kundanmal Shankarlal of Jalna, holder 
of Registration Certificate No. BOM.43-G-1 32, dated 
4th August 1957, under the Central Sales Tax Act, 
1956 (LXXIV of 1956), that the declarations bearing 
Nos. D. 807001 to 807025 issued to him under sub- 
rule (4) of section 8 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 

1956, have been lost, it is hereby declared under rule 
4-A(7) of the Central Sales Tax (Bombay) Rules, 

1957, that the said declarations should be considered 
as invalid with effect from 17th June 1961. 

P. V. PATANKAR, 

• Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax, 
Eastern Division, Nagpur. 


Dated, Nagpur, the 22nd January 1962. 

No. G-CST-ED.l. — Whereas it has been reported 
by Messrs. Bijay and Ashok Firm, Chanda, holder 
of R. C. No. Bom.34-A-l21, dated 1st July 1957, 
under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (LXXIV of 
1956), that the declarations bearing Nos. D.378601 


and D.378625 issued to him under sub-rule (4) 0 f 
section 8 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, has 
been lost, it is hereby declared under rule 4-A(7) of 
the Central Sales Tax (Bombay) Rules, 1957, that the 
said declarations should be considered as invalid with 
effect from April 1959. 

P. V. PATANKAR, 
Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax, 
Eastern Division. NaeDur. 


OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT COMMERCIAL 
TAX OFFICER, MANGALORE RURAL. 

Notification No. S.K./A.C.T./M.R.104-327/60-61, 
dated 26th March 1962 under rule 6(e) of the 
Central Sales Tax (Mysore) Rules, 1956. 

It is hereby notified for the information of the 
Public that the Central Sales Tax Declaration 
(Form “C”) bearing SI. No. G.108008 issued from 
this office to Messrs. Vidyujjyoti, Proprietor, 
Shri A. Srinivasa Rao, Kinnigoly, South Kanara. 
reported to have been lost in transit by them which 
was issued to Messrs. Vijaya Trading Co., Calcutta. 
The said form is therefore, declared invalid for the 
purpose of sub-section 4 of section 8 of the Central 
Sales Tax Act 1956. 

Any one fraudulently using the said form will 
render himself liable for penal action as per law. 

The finder of the said form will please return the 
same to the undersigned. 

C. G. RANGANADHAM, 
Asst. Commercial Tax Officer. 


Copy of notification No. T . 1 605 6 1 -62, dated 27th 
29th March 1962, from the Commercial Tax 
Officer, V Circle, Bangalore, to the Commissioner 
of Commercial Taxes, Bangalore, for information 
and wide publicity. 


NOTIFICATION 


I, herewith notify to General Public that the blank 
declaration forms noted below were lost by the 
dealer noted against them. The said declaration 
forms are declared invalid for the purposes under 
section 8(4) of the C.S.T. Act 1956, any user will do 
so, only at the risk of the penal provisions ot the 
Act and rules made thereunder: — 


( 1 ) 

( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 

(4) 


No. of declaration forms lost /destroyed or 
stolen — From G. 367144 to G. 3671 50 0 
Forms). 

Name and address of the dealer to whom 
“C" forms are issued by the Department - 
Messrs. Hotel Ambassador, High Grounds, 
Bangalore. 

R.C. No. of the dealer under the Central Sales 
Tax Act, 1956— B.N.C.T.V. CST.A. 62 / 60 - 61 . 

Address of the dealer to whom the “C form 
is sent — Blank Forms. 


(5) Date of issue of the “C” forms— 

(6) Whether lost, stolen or destroyed — Lost. 

(7) Remarks— After production of books ® 

accounts in the office, while the dea 
were going back, the remaining unuse 
“C” forms were lost in the city bus. 


irt IA] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 7, 1962 


105 


nw of flotification No. T.1379/ 61-62, dated 31st 
jVfan'h 1962, from the Assistant Commercial Tax 
Officer, No. 11 and HI Circle, Bangalore, to the 
Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Bangalore, 
for information and wide publicity, as the “C” 
forms mentioned below are treated as invalid. 

NOTIFICATION 

|t is reported on 29th March 1962 by Shri K. V. 
ferabhadrappa, Prop: Sarvsakti Trades, Chickpet, 
Jnualore, that the declaration “C” forms book 
arinu No. 414, containing twenty-five leaves 
aring SI. No. from 142326 to 142350 both inclusive 
s been lost. The said declaration forms are there- 
fe proved as invalid under Central Sales Tax 
lysorc) Rules, 1957. Hence, it is notified for the 
iormation of public that anybody using the same 
liable for penal action under Central Sales Tax 
It 1956. 


rFICE OF THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 
^ALES TAX, EASTERN DIVISION, NAGPUR. 

joticc under sub-rule (7) of Rule 4-A of the 
Central -Sales Tax (Bombay) Rules, 1957.J 

Nagpur, 12th October 1961/Asvina 20, 1883. 

M(i. G-CST -ED. 21. — Whereas it has been reported 
Shri Rindichand Kanhaiyalal, Kirana dealer of 
sad, holding Registration Certificate No. BOM.40- 
JO, under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 
KXIV of 1956), that declarations in form “C” 
iring Serial Nos. D-489374 and D-489375, issued 
him under sub-sectioti (4) of section 8 of the 
ntral Sales Tax Act, 1956, has been lost in transit, 
is hereby declared under rule 4-A(7) of the Central 
les Tax ' (Bombay) Rules, 1957, that the said 
durations in form “C” should be considered as 
valid with effect from 20th January 1961, and 25th 
nuary 1961, respectively. 

P. V. PATANKAR, 

Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax, 
Eastern Division, Nagpur. 

otification under sub-rule (7) of rule 4-A of the 
Central Sales Tax (Bombay) Rules, 1957.J 

Nagpur, 29th November 1961. 

^ m ^-CST-ED.22. — Whereas it has been reported 
( Messrs. Badrinarayan Sukhlal, Proprietor, Fancy 
; nc 0 r ^J Stores, Bhir, holder of Registration Certificate 
^ BOM,46-A-15, dated 10th September 1957, under 
[ Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (LXXIV of 56), that 

I P declaration bearing No. D-702409 issued to him 
er sub-section (4) of section 8 of the Central Sales 
\ 1956, has been lost in transit, it is hereby 

^cd under rule 4-A(7) of the Central Sales Tax 
ulH^k ^ u ^ es .» 1957, that the said declaration 

a be considered as invalid with effect from 
a December 1959. 

P. V. PATANKAR, 

Deputy Commissioned of Sateis Tax, 
Eastern Division, Nagpur i 


Nagpur, 22nd December 1961. 

No. G-CST-ED.26. -Whereas, it has been reported 
by the Sales Tax Officer, Gondia, vide his lettei 
No. ST-IH-6002, dated 17th October 1961, that 
Messrs. Ramrukh Seoraj of Gondia, Registration 
Certificate No. Bom.35-A-346, dated 25th January 
1958, have closed their business but failed to 
surrender the unused “C” form, declarations, if any, 
as required by sub-rule (4) of rule 4-A of the said 
Rules, it is hereby declared under rule 4-A-(7) of 
the Central Sales Tax (Bombay) Rules, 1957, that all 
the declaration in form *‘C\ bearing No. D/ 0987026 
to No. D/ 0987050, issued to the above dealer under 
sub-section (4) of section 8 of the Central Sales Tax 
Act, 1956, should be considered as invalid. 

P. V. PATANKAR, 

Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax, 
Eastern Division, Nagpur. 

GOVERNMENT OF ASSAM 
Orders by the Governor 
Political Department 

Shillong, the 28th April 1962. 

No. PLA.8/62/Pt.I/8. — Whereas the Governor of 
Assam is satisfied that the article under caption 
“Asomoloi Nababor Agoman” published in the 
issue of 13th April 1962 of “Asorn Bani”, a weekly 
newspaper of Gauhati, edited by Shri Satish Chandra 
Kakoti and printed at Tribune Press, Gauhati, con- 
tains matters which promote and are intended to 
promote feelings of enmity and hatred between 
different classes of citizens of India, e.g., the Ahoms 
and the Muslims. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 99A, Cr.P.C., 1898 (Act V of 1898), the 
Governor of Assam is pleased to declare every copy 
of the aforesaid publication to be forfeited to Govern- 
ment. 

A. N. KIDWAI, Chief Secy. 

GOVERNMENT OF UTTAR PRADESH 

Confidential (A) Department 
NOTIFICATION 

Dated Lucknow, the 2nd May 1962. 

No. A-l 1 -XXV /CX-A-1 36/ 1960. -Whereas, the 
publication entitled “A Simple Geography of China” 
edited by Wang Chun-Heng and published by Foreign 
Language Press, Peking, contains maps which erro- 
neously depict the northern frontier of India and 
thereby questions the territorial integrity and the 
frontiers of India in a manner which is, or is likely to 
he prejudicial to the interests of the safety and 
security of India: % 

And whereas, the State Government is of the 
opinion that the matter contained in the said publica- 
tion is punishable under section 2 of the Criminal 
Law Amendment Act, 1961 (Act No. 23 of 1961). 

S ow, therefore, in exercise of the power conferred 
?r sub-section (1) of section 4 of the aforesaid 
Act, the Governor of Utter Pradesh is pleased to 
declare that every copy of the abovesaid publication 
shall be ami is hereby forfeited to the Goverrimcnt. 

By order, 

A SEN, Home Secretary* 


106 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, TUNE 7, 1962 


[Part \} 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 
NOTIFICATION 

New Delhi, the 14th May 1962. 

No. 4/5/62-Poll(I).~ In exercise of the powers 
conferred by sub-section (1) read with sub-section (2) 
of section 4 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 
1961 (23 of 1961), the Central Government hereby 
declares every issue of the document entitled “Pakis- 
tan Tourist Map” published by the Director Tourism, 
Ministry of Commerce, Government of Pakistan, 
Karachi, in 1961, to be forfeited to the Government 


on the ground that the said document, the public 
tion of which is punishable under section 2 of t) 
said Act, erroneously depicts Kashmir as a dispute 
territory and Junagarh and Manavadar in such 
manner as to give the impression that they bclur 
to Pakistan, thus questioning the territorial integri 
and frontiers of India in a manner which is likely 
be prejudicial to the interests of the safely a , 
security of India. 

N. SAHGAL, Jt. Sec 


DOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
Ministry of Commorco and Industry 

New Delhi, the 2nd January 1962 

List of lietnoH lisusd under the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1961, during the week ending 30th December mi 


Name and addr«»w of tlio industrial undertaking Articles of manufacture and oapaoit.y (and Licence No. and dat*. 

(and location). typo of licence, i.e.„ NU/SE/NA/C.O.B./ 

Shifting). 

(1) (2) (3) 


* * * * 

4. Oriental Kloctric & Engineering Co., Norton Radial dri'lig machines 72 Nos. per L/0/66/61-MEI, 14-12-61. 
Buildings, 1 & 2 Old Court House Corner, annum on single shift. (N. A.) 

Caoutta-1 (Calcutta) (West Bengal). 


(Extract from “ Punjab Government Gazette”, 
dated the 13th April 1962) 

HOME DEPARTMENT 
Press Branch 
NOTIFICATION 
The 5th April 1962. 

No. 3256-1PB-62/ 12203. — Whereas it appears to 
the Governor of Punjab that the issue of “Al-Jamat” 
for November 1961, an illustrated Urdu monthly, 
edited by Syed Sarwar Shah Gillani, printed and 
published by Syed Sajad Sarwar Gillani, at Line Art 
Press, Karachi, and Saddar Karachi-3, respectively, 
in its passages referred to in the schedule to this 
order, contains matter which promotes or intends to 
promote feelings of enmity and hatred between the 
Hindus and Muslims in India; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the power conferred 
bv section 99A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 
1898 (Act No. V of 1898), the Governor of Punjab 
is pleased to declare every copy of the aforesaid 
publication, to be forfeited to Government. 

Schedule 

Page of Passages 

the issue 

Page 8 Editorial captioned “Ek Nayc Pakistan 
Ki Tchrik” beginning with the words 
“Das crorc Muslmanon Ne” etc., etc., 
and ending with words “Ek Nayc 
Pakistan Ki Tehrik Shuru Ki Jaye” 

J. D. KHANNA, 

Dy. Secy, to Govt, of Punjab, Home (II) 

Department 


ERRATUM 

In the “Calcutta Gazette”, Part IA, dated the 1! 
April 1962, in 28th line on page 52, please read 
“1951” in place of “1962”. 

S. MUKHERJEE, 
Superintendent, Government Printu 
West Bengal. 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Department of Revenue 
NOTIFICATIONS 
Income-tax Establishments 
New Delhi, the 5th May 1962. 

No. 80. — Shri N. Subramanian, Appellate Assists 
Commissioner of Income-tax, ‘G* Range, Calcutl 
has been granted earned leave for fortysix days fro 
16th April 1962 to 31st May 1962 with permission 
prefix holidays on 1 4th April 1962 and 15th Ap 
1962 to the leave. 

No. 81. — Shri N. R. Dandckar, Appellate Assista 
Commissioner of Income-tax, T Range, Calcutta, h 
taken over as Appellate Assistant Commissioner 
Income Tax, 4 G' Range, Calcutta, in addition to 1 
own duties, on the afternoon of 13th April 1962 vi 
Shri N. Subramanian. 

No. 82. — Shri R. G. Deshpande, Appellate Ass 
tant Commissioner of Income-tax, 4 B* Ran? 
Calcutta, has been granted earned leave for sixtyni 
days from 23rd April 1962 to 30th June 1962 wi 
permission to affix Sundays on 22nd April 1962 ai 
1st July 1962 to the leave. 

No. 83. — N. R. Dandekar, Appellate Assista 
Commissioner of Income-tax, T Range, Calcutta, n 
taken over as Appellate Assistant Commissioner 
Income-tax, ‘B* Range, Calcutta, in addition to J 
own duties, on the afternoon of 21st April 1962 vi 
Shri R. G. Deshpande. 

* 6 * * * 

P. S. KAICKER, Under Sefl 



Pabt LA] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 7, 1962 


107 


New Delhi, the 11th May 1962. 

No. 86. — Shri R. N. Nagwekar, Appellate Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax, C Range, Calcutta, has 
been granted earned leave for thirtyonc days from 
3rd May 1962 to 2nd June 1962 with permission tc 
sufhx Sunday, the 3rd June 1962, to the leave. 

No. 87. —Shri M. S. Unni Nayar, Appellate Assis- 
tant Commissioner of Income-tax, D Range, 
Calcutta, has taken over as Appellate Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax, C Range, Calcutta, m 
addition to his own duties, on the afternoon of 2nd 
May 1962 vice Shri R. N. Nagwekar. 

No. 88. — Shri J. Krishnamurty, Appellate Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax, E Range, Calcutta, has 
been granted earned leave for fiftyfive days from 7th 
Ma> 1962 to 30th June 1962 with permission to affix 
Sundays on 6th May 1962 and 1st July 1962 to the 
leave. 

No. 89.-~ Shri M. S. Unni Nayar, Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax, D Range, 
Calcutta, has taken over as Appellate Assistant Com- 
missioner of Income-tax, E Range, Calcutta, in 


addition to his own duties, on the afternoon of 5th 
May 1962 vice Shri J. Krishnamurty. 

No. 90.- Shri N. R. Dandckar, Appellate Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax, 1 Range, Calcutta, has 
taken over as Appellate Assistant Commissioner of 
Income-tax, A Range, Calcutta, in addition to his 
own duties, on the afternoon of 4th May 1962 vice 
Shri K. G. Nair transferred. 

* * * * * 

M. G. THOMAS, Under Secy. 

New Delhi, the 11th May 1962. 

No. 95.— In pursuance of clause (b) of sub-rule (ii) 
of lule 2 of the Appellate Tribunal Rules, 1946, the 
Central Government has been pleased to appoint Shri 
S. Narayanan, Income-tax Officer, Class 1, as Autho- 
rised Representative, Income-tax Appellate Tribunal, 
Calcutta, with effect from the afternoon of the 6th 
April 1962 to appeal, plead and act for any Income- 
tax authority who is a party to any proceedings 
before the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal. 

M. G. THOMAS, Under Secy. 



Registered No. C207 


No. 23 of 1962 



(Ealratta 










<1> <2) (3) W> 


i957 January 

, . 

<>6- 4 

94*(> 

97*0 

April 

* . 

100*5 

98 *0 

98*9 

July 

. . 

106*0 

106 *8 

104*1 

October 


107*6 

107*0 

106*7 


1968 January 

. . 

100 0 

101 •» 

103 *1 

April 

• • 

106*0 

100 *1 

104 *4 

July 


100 -4 

101*6 

107 *9 

October 


11 J* 8 

114*3 

111 -2 


1969 January 

• • 

104*5 

07 -2 

102 -9 

April 

. . 

105-8 

100*9 

106-1 

July 

• • 

110 -4 

108 -3 

109 -2 

October 

. . 

114 ‘6 

110-0 

113-0 


1960 January 

• , 

110-4 

108*3 

108*6 

April 

• » 

110-5 

108-0 

108 *9 

July 

e e 

114-4 

118*9 

112*8 

October 

... 

114-4 

113 -6 

113-2 


1961 January 


109 *7 

105-0 

108*7 

February 


110 *0 

106 -1 

109*5 

Match 


110-9 

106 1 

109 -9 

April 


112*2 

108-2 

111-1 

May 


112*1 

107*8 

111*4 

June 


118-7 

110*1 

112*7 

July 


116-2 

114*1 

116*1 

August 


117-9 

116*8 

116-6 

September 


118*0 

116*4 

116*6 

October 


119*9 

119-7 

118*2 

November 


120 *3 

120*4 

118-4 

Deeember 


117*0 

114*5 

116*3 


1962 January 

114*4 

110*1 

112*8 

February 

114*3 

109*7 

112*8 

March 

116-6 

112*0 

111*1 



(6) 

(7) 

(8) 

(9) 

91 -F 

96 -2 

90*3 

107 -3 

99-4 

05 -5 

97*0 

98*6 

106 -5 

98 -6 

108 -0 

102*7 

100*7 

111*9 

103-0 

104 0 

104*0 

102*3 

108 9 

10C -8 


98-1 

101 *8 

95 *4 

106 -U 

98-2 

100 -2 

103-2 

9V *9 

107 -4 

99*5 

104 *9 

106 *7 

102 *6 

114-7 

10* -2 

118-3 

109*8 

108 *5 

116-2 

107-6 


95 *5 

102 *7 

04*6 * 

112*3 

104 -0 

99 -4 

104 -6 

98 -2 

111 -9 

103-0 

106-1 

108 *1 

104 -0 

118-8 

108 3 

113 -4 

111 -6 

111 -0 

119-3 

119*6 


106 *3 

107 -5 

103 *2 

118-8 

no- o 

105 *2 

107 *9 

103 *3 

120 *5 

in -a 

111 *6 

111*5 

109 -0 

>124 . 

-6 

111 *8 

112-2 

110-4 

126 *3 

"iii-o 


103 *2 

108 *4 

102 -3 

125 *6 

lit- 3 

104 *3 

109 -0 

102 -3 

126-7 

117-3 

104 -6 

109 5 

103 9 

127-6 

118-1 

107-2 

111*0 

106-6 

126-8 

116-6 

107-0 

111*0 

106-6 

126-3 

116-0 

109-1 

112*1 

108*4 

125-9 

116*0 

113-2 

114*2 

112-2 

128-7 

110*2 

116-7 

116-5 

114 • 6 

127-4 

118*0 

116*2 

115-4 

113*8 

124-6 

116-4 

119*2 

116-9 

116-7 

124 • 1 

115*' 

118-4 

110-9 

1 16*6 

124 3 

116 1 

112*0 

114*1 

1111 

122*9 

113-8 


108*0 

112*1 

107*0 

123*3 

114*2 

107-7 

112*1 

106*<> 

124*3 

116-1 

110*1 

113-3 

108-9 

123*0 

m-6 


Week ending 

28-4-02 

119-8 

118*8 

117*8 

116*6 

116*4 

114*9 

124*7 

115-6 

115-8 

6JMI2 

120-3 

119-6 

118-3 

117*5 

116*9 

116-8 

125-1 

12-5-02 

119*9 

118-8 

118-0 

116-8 

116*7 

115*3 



19-5-62 

119 4 

118-0 

117-5 

116*0 

116-2 

114*6 


* * 

26.5.62 

119*0 

117,-5 

117*1 

115-4 

115*8 

113*8 

-- 



* Revised senes (Bacvi 1952-58) and'tbe oori esponding converted senes* 



SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 7, 1962 


183 


* 


HE BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR THE IMPROVE- 
" MENT OF CALCUTTA 


intice under section 43 of the Calcutta Improvement 
0 Act, 1911 (Bengal Act V of 1911) 

BUSTEE REHOUSING SCHEME No. X 

j jt is hereby notified, under section 43 of the 
alcutta Improvement Act, that an Improvement 
chemc, namely, a Housing Accommodation Scheme, 
j,‘ t he purpose of affording alternative residential 
ccommodation to bustee dwellers who may be 
isplaced from their residence by the acquisition of 
iustees by the Trust for Scheme Nos. VI-M (Supple* 
nentary) and VIII-M and other Improvement 
chemes and to be hereafter known as Bustee 
Rehousing Scheme No. X has been framed by the 
ioard of Trustees for the Improvement of Calcutta 
n Constituency No. 16 of the Calcutta Corporation. 

2. The area comprised within and required for 
the execution of the Scheme (shown in yellow verge 
in the plan) measures 7.24 acres more or less and is 
more particularly described below: — 

Boundaries of the land 

* 

On the North: Starting from the south-western 
corner of the premises No. 52 Bagmari Road 
(Mohammedan Burial Ground) running east- 
ward along its southern boundary up to the 
north-western corner of the premises No. 120- 
A, Manicktala Main Road. 

On the East: From this point running southward, 
westward and then southward along the 
western bound atty of premises No. 120 A, 
Manicktala Main Road to the north-eastern 
corner of the Subsidised Industrial Housing 
Stheme No. IV, within C.I.T. Scheme VII-M. 

On the South: From this point running westward 
along the northern boundary of the Subsidised 
Industrial Housing Scheme No. IV to its north- 
western corner, then southward along its 
western boundary for a distance of 31 feet then 
westward in a straight line for a distance of 
90 feet to a point on the eastern edge of 120 
feet New C.I.T. Road situated at a distance of 
96 feet to the south-west from the north- 
western corner of the Subsidised Industrial 
Housing Scheme No. IV. 

On the West: From this point running north- 
ward along the eastern edge of 120 feet C.I.T. 
Road for a distance of 104 feet then eastward 
for a distance of 90 feet to a point situated 
at a distance of 75 feet to the north from the 
north-western corner of the Subsidised Indus- 
trial Housing Scheme No. IV, then running 
northward in a straight line for a distance of 
465 feet to a point situated at a distance of 
98 feet on the south-east from the south- 
western corner of 52, Bagmari Road, then 
westwards for a distance of 90 feet to a point 
on the eastern edge of 120 feet C.I.T. Road 
situated at a distance of 30 feet to the south 
of south-western comer of 52, Bagmari Road, 
then northward along the eastern edge of 120 
feet C.I.T. Road to the starting point. 


3. Particulars of the scheme and a 
map of the area comprised in the 
scheme may be seen at the office of the Calcutta 
Improvement Trust at 10 Netaji Subhas Road, 
Calcutta-1, on week days between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. 
and on Saturdays between 11 a.m. and 12 noon. All 
the lands required for the execution of the scheme 
have already been or will be acquired in connection 
with Calcutta Improvement Trust Scheme No. VII-M. 

Copies of the above documents will be available on 
payment of the following fees: — 

Particulars of the scheme — Re. 0.25 nP. 

Plan of the scheme area and layout of the scheme 
— Rs. 1.00 nP. 

4. Objections will be received by the Chairman 
up to 28th June 1962. 

K. SEN, Chairman. 
Dated, Calcutta, the 7th May 1962. 


SCHEME NO. XC (PARK AT KALIGHAT ROAD) 

1. It is notified under section 43 of the Calcutta 
Improvement Act, 1911, that a General Improvement 
Scheme, for the purpose of improving the area as 
regards light, air, ventilation, etc., and for the provi- 
sion of recreational facilities by providing for a Park 
in the Kalighat Road area, to be known as Scheme 
No. XC (Park at Kalighat Road) has been framed by 
the Board of Trustees for the Improvement of 
Calcutta in the above area in Ward No. 67 of the 
Corporation of Calcutta. 

2. The Boundary of the area comprised in the 
scheme, shown within red verge on plan, is as 
follows : 

On the North: Starting from the south-western 
corner of premises No. 61/1, Harish Chatter jee 
Street, running eastwards in a straight line to 
the north-western corner of premises No. 22 A, 
Gobinda Ghosal Lane; from this point running 
eastwards along the northern boundary of 
premises No. 22A, Gobinda Ghosal Lane to its 
north-eastern corner. 

On the East: From this point running south 
eastwards in a straight line to the south- 
eastern corner of premises No. 43, Kalighat 
Road; from this point running southwards in 
a straight line to the south-eastern corner of 
premises Nos. 49B, 49C, 49D, Kalighat Road. 

On the South: From this point running west- 
wards in a straight line for a distance of 128 ft. 
to a point on the southern boundary of the 
same premises situated at a distance of about 
25 ft. from the south-eastern corner of 
premises No. 53B, Kalighat Road; from this 
point running westwards along the southern 
boundary of premises Nos. 49B, 49C, 49D, 
Kalighat Road to the south-eastern comer of 
premises No. 53B, Kalighat Road; from 'this 
point running north-westwards in a straight 
line to the south-western corner of premises 
No. 49C, Harish Chatterjee Street. 

On the West: From this point running north 
wards in a straight line to the starting point. 


J 84 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 7, 1962 


3. The particulars of the scheme, a plan showing 
th: scheme area and a statement of the lands pro- 
posed for acquisition and for levy of betterment fee 
may be inspected at the office of the Trust at 10 
Neiaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, between the hours 
11 a.m. and 3 p.m. on weekdays and between hours 
11 a.m. and 12-00 p.m. on Saturdays. 


Copies will be available on payment of the follow- 
ing fees : - 

Particulars and other information of the scheme 
—Re. 0.25. 

Plan of the Scheme area Re. 1.00. 

Statement of land proposed for acquisition or for 
levy of betterment fee— Re. 0.25. 

4. Objections to the scheme wili be received up 
to the 25th August 1962. 

5 Under section 6 A of the Land Acquisition Act, 
1894, as introduced by the schedule to the Calcutta 
Improvement Act, 1911, as amended by the West 
Bengal Act XXXII of 1955; the publication of this 
notice shall have the same effect as the publication 
of notification under section 4 of the Land Acquisi- 
tion Act, 1894. 

K. SEN, 
Chairman. 

Dated, Calcutta, the 25th May 1962. 


On the East: From that point running south, 
wards in a straight line along the eastern eug t 
of Natabar Dutta Row for a distance of 116 ft. 
then eastwards along the northern edge 0 f 
Natabar Dutta Row for a distance of 34 f t 
then running towards south in a straight lj ne 
to the south-eastern corner of premises No. 29, 
Sankharitolia Street, then southwards in j 
straight line to a point on the eastern edo 
of Ram Chandra Das Row situated at a 
tance of 110 ft. from its junction with Dharam- 
tala Street measured along the eastern edg; 
of the Ram Chandra Das Row. 

On the South: From that point running west- 
wards in a straight line to a point on the 
eastern edge of Indian Mirror Street situated 
at a distance of 75 ft. from its junction with 
Dharamtala Street measured along the easier 
edge of Indian Mirror Street. 

On the West: From that point running north- 
wards to the north-eastern junction of Creek 
Row and Phalgun Das Lane: then run nine 
along the eastern edge of Phalgun Das Lan. 
to the south-eastern junction of Gokul Boral 
Street and Phalgun Das Lane then j»> 3 
straight line towards north to (fie north- 
western corner of premises No. 11 / ID, 
Thakurdas Palit Lane, then running north-east- 
wards in a straight line to the starting point. 

3. Further particulars of the Scheme, a plan 
showing the Scheme area and a statement of the 
lands proposed for acquisition or for levy of bette,- 
ment fee may be inspected at the Trust office ai 
10 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, between 11 a.m 
and 3 p.m. on weekdays and 11 a.m. and 12-30 p.m 
on Saturday. 


SCHEME No. LXXXVIII (Natabar Dutta Row to 
Dharamtala Street) 


1 It is notified under section 43 of the Calcutta 
I tiprovcment Act that a Street Scheme to be known 
as Scheme No. LXXXVIII (Natabar Dutta Row to 
Dharamtala Street) for the purpose of creating new 
or improving existing means of communication and 
facilities for traffic, remedying defective ventilation, 
providing building sites and affording better facilities 
fo conservancy has been framed by the Board of 
Trustees for the Improvement of Calcutta. 


4. Copies of the above documents will be avail 
able on payment of the following fees: — 

Particulars and other information of the Schen\ 
-Re. 0.25 

Statement of land pioposed for acquisition or fo 
levy of betterment fee - Re. 0.25 

Plan of the Scheme area — Re. 1.00. 

5. Objections to the Scheme will be received u{ 
to 31st August 1962. 


2. The boundary *f the area comprised in the 
Scheme, shown wiihin red verge on plan, is as 
follows : - - 


On 


the North: Starting from the north-western 
corner of premises No. 36, Sasi Bhusan Dev 
Street and running eastwards along the south- 
ern edge of Ramkanai Adhikary Lane to its 
junction with Sasi Bhusan Dev Street, then in 
a straight line eastward across Sasi Bhusan 
Dev Street and Natabar Dutta RoW to the 
north-western corner of premises No. 8/~A, 
Natabar Dutta Row. 


6. Under section 6A of the Land Acquisition Act 
1894, as introduced bv the schedule to the Calcut ■ 
Improvement Act, 1911, as amended bv the wc 
Bengal Act XXXII of 1955, the publication of tn 
notice shall have the same effect as the publu -t, 
of notification under section 4 of the Land Acqu s 
tion Act. 


K. SEN. 

Chairman. 


Dated Calcutta, the 26th May 1962. 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 7, 1962 


185 


CORPORATION OF CALCUTTA 

NOTICE 

NOTICE is hereby given for information of the public 
that the Corporation of Calcutta at their meeting 
heki on the 1st June 1962, adopted the following 
Rules framed under sub-section (5) of section 527 
read with sub-sections (2) and (4) of section 281 of 
the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1951, for the use of 
Corporation water for washing vehicles kept for 
protit, saie or hire as stated herein below: — 

Rules under sub-section 5 of section 527 read with 
sub-sections (2) and (4) of section 281 of the 
Calcutta Municipal Act of 1951 and section 54 
of the Calcutta Municipal (Amendment) Act, 
1953, for the use of Corporation Water for wash- 
ing carts kept for profit, sale or hire. 

This may be called rules under sub-section 5 of 
section 527 read with sub-section (2) and sub-section 

(4) of section 281 of the Calcutta Municipal Act of 
195k section 54 of the Calcutta Municipal (Amend- 
ment) Act, 1953) and are to come into effect from a 
date the Commissioner, Calcutta Corporation, may 
decide. *■— 

(1) Vehicles propelled by power, drav\n by 
aminals or human beings excepting bullock and 
buffalo carts and rickshaws and those owned and 
used by the Military, kept or used in Calcutta for 
sa.j. profit or hire should be deemed as using, unless 
otherwise proved to the satisfaction of the Commis- 
^•aer, filtered, unfiltcrcd or tubewell water of the 
Corporation for washing the same without being 
authorised as envisaged under sections 270 and 271 of 
the Calcutta Municipal Act of 1951. 

(2i Poisons, institutions, commercial concerns, 
departments of the Government using Corporation 
vwsrer for washing vehicles kept for sale, profit or hire 
s bal! be liable to pay to the Corporation on the basis 
of individual vehicles at rates prescribed hereinbelow 
under sub-section (2) of section 281 of the Calcutta 
Municipal Act, 1951: — 

Per financial year. 


(5) An additional fee of 25 per cent, shall be 
imposed on the assessee if he does not make pay- 
ment of the demand within a month from the date of 
receipt of the notice referred to above or fails to put 
lortn sufficient reason for non-payment to the satis- 
faction of the Commissioner within the said time. 

(6) (a) Institutions, commercial concerns and 
departments of the Government shall forward to the 
Corporation in the months of May and November 
each year Statements, containing description of all 
vehicles kept or used by them in Calcutta and liable 
to be charged and at the same time deposit to the 
Corporation the amount due for the vehicles if it was 
not made at any previous date. 

(b) A requisition, containing printed schedule of 
rates with description of the vehicles liable shall be 
'orv.jrued tn rough certificate of posting to parties 
likely to have liability for payment of washing charges 
advising to be filled up, specified, signed and returned 
to the Corporation within 15 days from receipt 
thereof. 

Fa i'li re to comply with the abwe requisition 
.huh be tiCuted as an offence under section 529(a) 
of ‘he Calcutta Municipal Act, 1951, besides right to 
go a subsequent hearing of any objection shall stand 
forfeited. 

(d) Requisition referred to above sent to a partv 
through certificate of posting on a date shall be 
deemed to be the date of receipt of the same bv the 
partv and any contention of non-receipt of the same 
at any later date shall not be entertained. 

(e) Any person furnishing a statement on requisi- 
te >r. in respect of any vehicles owned by him shall be 
liable to be penalised by imposition of additional 50 
per cent, of his liability for the said vehicle if the said 
statement proves incorrect at any later date. 

50 per cent, of the annual demand for a vehicle 
mav be reduced if it is found to have been disposed 
of by sale to a party outside Calcutta, or sent out of 
Calcutta for use elsewhere or proved unusable to the 
satisfaction of the Commissioner for some reason or 
other within first six months of the financial years. 


Rs. 

la Lorries, buses, vans, Trailers ... 36 

Cars and Taxi Cabs ... 12 

k) Motor Bykes and Scooters 6 

Hackney Carriages 6 


The rates prescribed above are to be levied 
J. der action 273 of the Calcutta Municipal Act of 


da-^f^he demand levied shall be paid within 15 
>s from the date the notice advising payment of 
?aL same * received by the party as provided under 
Jon 254 of the Calcutta Municipal Act 1951. 


(8) No person, owning Taxi-cabs, Buses, Lorries, 
Trailers and Hackney-carriages used for carrying 
pa-sengers or goods on payment of hire shall be 
entitled to Trade license under section 218 of the 
Calcutta Municipal Act unless he produces a Clear- 
ance Certificate of payment of annual washing change 
due for the said vehicles. 

(9) Parties given ferrule connections unfler section 
281(1) ol the Calcutta Municipal Act specially for 
the purpose of washing vehicles on rates prescribe 
according to dimensions of the ferrules shall declare 
in writing to the Corporation particulars of rhe 
vehicles w'hicb are washed with the water supplied 
through the ferrule. Under no circumstances, they 
shall wash vehicles other than those so desoJribed. 

Neither they shall wash cars not covered bv their 
pavment calculated on the basis of individual ca r s at 
rates prescribed under rule 2 above. 


186 


SUPPLEMENT. TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 7, 1962 


Non-compliance with the directions as above shall 
be treated as an offence and the 'party committing 
such offence shall be punishably with disconnections 
of the ferrule supply under orders of the Commis- 
sioner. 

(10) Each and every party liable shall be prose- 
cuted under section 537 in the Courts of the 
Municipal Magistrates, Town Hall, within 6 months 
from detection of the offence committed under 
sections 270 and 271 read with section 582 of the 
Calcutta Municipal Act of 1951. 

B. GHOSH, 

Secretary to the Corporation of Calcutta. 

Calcutta, 

The 4th June, 1962. 


HOWRAH IMPROVEMENT TRUST 


NOTICE 

Howrah, the 30th May 1962. 

Notice is hereby given under section 49(3) of th e 
Howrah Improvement Act, 1956, that the Board of 
Trustees for the Improvement of Howrah have 
submitted to the State Government under section 
49(1) thereof an application for sanction to their 
Improvement Scheme No. IV (Narasingha Dutta Road 
Park) with modifications considered necessary by 
the Board to the Schemes originally published in the 
“Calcutta Gazette*’ on 11th August 1960 and in local 
newspapers. 

A. NIYOGI, Chairman. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at tfc* West Bengal Government Press, Alipore. 



tglstered No. C207 



(Ealmtta 





(6azt'ttp 


fAISTHA 17 ] 


THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 1962 


[ SAKA 1884 


PART II — Advertisements, Notices 

roMdura regarding sanding Manuscripts lor publication of Advertisements, Notices, oto.. In the 

•Calcutta Gazette" (Part II). 
t. Manuscripts should bs properly edited and complete In itself. 

2 . M^Moripts should always ho typewritten on one side of the paper. The name ol signatory should bo typewritten 

lew the signature. • 

3. Manuscripts Intended lor advertisement in the next issue ol “Calcutta. Gazette” shall be received by Publication Sales 
dm el New Secretariat Buildings, 1 Hastings Street, Calcutta, up to 3-30 p. m. on Friday and at Hoad Office at Allpore up to 
a. m. on Saturday. 

4. All costs shall bo paid in advance and deposited along with the manuscripts. 

5. Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING (PUBLICATION 
IANCH), WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRE88, ALIPORE. 

Th> press shall not be hold responsible tor delay In publication ot any advertisement duo to the non-ooservance ol t he 
itrvctieas detaOSTabove. 

in —— 1 .. . 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 
Advertisement No. 22 

TLIUATIONS are invited for undermentioned posts 
im Indian citizens and persons ot Indian origin migrated 
mi Pakistan with intention ot permanently settling in 
idui, subjects of Nepal, Sikkim or State ol Pondicherry, 
(I persons domiciled in Goa, Daman and Diu. Age limits 
laxable for Government servants except where otherwise 
Deified. I ’ppm* age limits relaxuble by live years lor 
lii’ilulcd Castes and Scheduled Tribes candidates and up 
l'> >cars tor displaced persons ironi Pakistan. No 
lax.u loti lor others, save in exceptional circumstance*, 
j d will m no ease be relaxed beyond a limit o| tiuee 
ars . Qualifications relax able at Commission’s discretion 
case of candidates otherwise well qualified. Particulars 
!| l upplieat ion forms obtainable from Secretary, Union 
'Mu- Service Commission, Post Box No. 18G, New Delhi. 
|4 Mu«-st lor forms must speciiy name ol post and should 
act ompaii ied by sell -addressed unstamped envelope lor 
at least ol size 9"x-f" indicating 1 hereon name 
pusts jor which lonns are required, (’losing date lor 
‘I'pt ot application with treasury receipt or crossed 
7'“ Postal Order for Ks. 7.50 nP. (1.87 nP. for Schc- 
Gustos and Scheduled Tiibes) the 2nd P July 19G2 
*UiJn|^ l»H)2 lor applicants from abroad), (kmimissom 
' a > * * mit genuinely indigent and bona fide displaced 
J M,,ls lee. Separate application with separate tee 
I luired tor each post. Candidates abroad may apply on 
l ,a l J °r d forms are not available and deposit lee with 
a Indian Embassy. If, required candidates must appear 
P f ‘isuria 1 interview. 

One Research Officer (Minor Irrigation), Ministry of 
. Agrloulture. Post temporary but likely to < on- 
41 Pay: Us. 400 -25—500— MO- 590 — K.B. 

Niali 8M0 — Mo — 900. Higher initial pay to 

tars ' Tialjfied and experienced candidate. Age: MO 
iln <l below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) Master’s 
^ 'dent Honours Degree in Mathematics or Statistics 


or Economics with Statistics of recognised University, 
(ii) About three years’ experience in collection, analysis 
and interpretation of statistical data preterably relating to 
minor n ngatiou schemes. 

2. One Assistant Educational Adviser, Ministry of 
Education. Post permanent and reserved lor Scheduled 
Castes /Tribes candidate*. Applications invited from Sche- 
duled Castes/Tribes candidates only. Pay: Its, 900 -50 — 
1,200 (Revised). Higher initial pay to specially qualdit*d 
and experienced candidate. Age: <10 years and below. 
Qualifications: Essential — (i) At least, second class Master’s 
Degree ol a recognised University, or eqimaleut. (li) About, 
seven years’ experience* ol teaching and/or tdiicational 
ad mi nisi ration. 

M. One Section Officer (Technical) for Meehanioal 
Tabulation Work, Directorate of Economics and Statistics, 
Ministry of Food and Agriculture. Post temporary hut 
likely to continue indefinitely. Post, reserved lor Scheduled 
Castes/Tribe* candidate it such suitable candidate avail- 
able; otherwise, to be treated as unreserved. Pay: Its. M25 

15- 175 -E.B.- 20 — 575. Uighci initial pay to specially 
qualified and experienced candidate. Age: M 5 years and 
below. Qualifications: Essential (a) Matriculation ol 
iccoguised University or equivalent, (b) Training in open a 
lion oi punch card mechanical tabulation under Govern- 
ment / pri\ ate organisation ol standing. (c) About three 
years’ experience in the opeiation ol pmieli card mechanical 
tabulation under Government/ private organisation ol’ 
standing. 

4. One Radiologist, Civil Hospital, Imphai, Ministry of 
Health. Post temporary hut likely to eontinue on long 
term basis. Pay: Ks. 400- 4<K)- - -450— MU *000- M5 4370- - 
K.B.— .’15 950 plus non-practising allowance of 25 

per rent, of pay, subject t“ a minimum ol Re. 150 
per month. Private practice of any kind will not 
he alh/wed. Higher initial pay to sjMwially qualified 
and experienced candidate. Age: M5 years and below. 
Qualifications: Essential — (i> A Medical qualification 


258 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 7, 1962 


included in the First or Second Schedule or Part II of 
Tliird Schedule (other than licentiate qualification) to the 
Indian Medical Council Act, 1956. (Holders of qualification 
included in Part II of Third Schedule should also fulfil the 
conditions stipulated in Section 13(3) of the Act.] 
(li) Post-graduate qualification in Radiology, e.g., 
D.M.R.E. (iii) About five years’ experience as Radiologist 
in a large Hospital or institution. 


5. One Sexologist and Chemical Examiner to the Govern* 
ment of India, Ministry of Health. Post permanent. Pay: 
Us. 1,600 — 100 — 2,000 (Private practice including con- 
sultant and laboratory practice will not be allowed). Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age: Preferably below 50 years lor all including Govern- 
ment servants. Qualifications: Essential — (i) A Medical 
qualification included in the First or Second Schedule or 
Part II of Third Schedule (other than licentiate qualifi- 
cations) to the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956. (Holders 
oi educational qualifications included m Part II of Third 
Schedule should lull'd the conditions laid down under 
Section 13(3) of the Act.] (ii) Post-graduate Degree or 
Diploma in Pathology or Bacteriology, (iii) About ten 
years’ experience oi practical work and research iii Sero- 
logy, Biochemistiy anti Bacteriology, five years of which 
must have been in a position carrying administrative 
responsibility. 

6 . One Medical Officer (E.N.T.), Coal Mines Labour 

Welfare Fund, Ministry of Health. Post permanent-, hut 
appointment will he made on temporary basis in lien 
vacancy. Pay: lb. d 00— 400- 450—30 — 000 — 35 — 67(X—K.B. 
— 35 — 950 plus non-practising allowance of 25 per cent, of 
pay, subject to a minimum oi Rs. 150 per month. Private 
practice of any kind will not he allowed. Higher initial pay 
to specially qualifies! and experienced candidate. Age: ;IT> 
years and below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) A Medical 
qualification included in the* First or Second Schedule or 
Part II of 'Third Schedule to the Indian Medieul Council 
Act, 1956. | Holders ol educational qualifications included 

in Part II oi Third Schedule should also iulfil the conditions 
laid down undoi Section 13(3) of the Act.] (ii) Post- 
graduate Degree in diseases ol Far, Nose and Throat, e.g., 
M.S. or F.R.C.S. with Otolaryngology as a special subject. 
Or Post-graduate Diploma in diseases ol Far, Nose and 
Throat, e.g., D.D.O., D.O.R.L. (iii) Alxmt five years’ 

experience in the speciality in case ol candidates possessing 
post-graduate degree in F.N.T. and about seven years’ 
experience in case ol candidates possessing post-graduate 
Diploma in FJ.N.T, 

7. Two Deputy Directors, one each for (a) the Central 
Inland Fisheries Research Institute, Barrackpore, and 
(b) the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, 
Mandapam Camp, Ministry of Food and Agriculture. 

Posts temporary hut likely to continue indefinitely. The 
post at (h) reserved lor Scheduled C’astes candidate il 
Kuril suitable candidate available, otherwise both the posts 
treated as unreserved. Pay: Rs. 1 , 1 Of) — ^50 — 1 ,400. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidates. 
Ago: 45 years and below. Qualifications: Essential— 
(a) Master’s Degree in Zoology of a recognised University 
or equivalent. (b) About nine years’ experience in 
Fisheries research and/or development. 


8 . One Pharmacologist, Medical Stores Organisation, 
Directorate General of Health Services. Post temporary 
but likely to continue and he retained on permanent basis 
P*y: Rs. 350 — 25 —500 30 -4,90- KB.— 30- 800. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age: 30 years and below. Qualifications: Essential— 
(i) Degree in Medicine of a recognised University, with 
specialisation in Pharmacology and Experimental Physio- 
logy. Or Posf -graduate Degree in Pharmacology of a 
recognised. University, (ii) About three years’ training/ 
experience in laboratory methods and technique employed 
in pharmacological investigations and drug testing, 

AM,stant Mechanical Engineer, Central Mecha- 
nised Farm, Ministry of Food and Agriculture. Post 
permanent. Post reserved for Scheduled Castes /Tribes 
candidate and only such candidates need apply. Pay: 

u , ^ r> ;Y' ,( y “ :!( ' r)!K * K. 30—800— E.B.--30— 830 

— Jo— y<J(l Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
* 8<>i 45 VPors and 'below. Quallfi- 
SK; E-Wntu-C) Degree or diploma in Mechanical/ 

Jilectncal/ Agricultural/ Automobile Engineering of reeog- 
lvn‘L! n ' V “ rH lV or t rl!< ti , nto. (ii) About three years’ 
irFZt"? 1,1 Um repair and maintenance of tractors and 
tractor drawn agricultural implements. 


(Part u 



10. (a) On* Deputy General Manager (Works), 

port Dopartmont, Himachal Pradesh Administrate^ 
(•») one Transport Officer, Delhi Milk Scheme, Mini.irl j 
Food and Agriculture, and (o) throe Senior SolemiS 
Offiooro, Grade il, Ministry of Defenoe. Posts tcilljKjra 
but likely to continue. For post (a): other things b*W 
equal Scheduled Castes candidate would he prelcjr f 
Fott (b) is reserved for Scheduled Tribes candidate ij sir 
suitable candidate is available otherwise treated uiin\ sm 
Of the posts at (0>, one for Scheduled Castes and on e , 
Scheduled Tribes candidates reserved if such suitable raj* 
d*ates are available, otherwise all posts treated unreserved 
Note: Candidates may also be selected for similar 
including posts in the scale of Rs. 700—1,200 i n i lh s 
Ministries /Department under Central Government Pay 
For (0): Its. 650 — 20—750 — 30 — 900 — 40- -1 ,020 For (hi 

Rs. 4(X) — -100 — 450 — 30— 60( ) — 35- — 670— -K. B . — ,‘15—950 f£ 
(0): Rs. 400 — 40 — 800 — 50 — 950. Higher initial ,‘ )ny * 
specially qualified and experienced candidates. Age.* 

40/35 years for (a) and (c) and (h) respectn^K I 
Qualifications: Essential- For (a); (i) Decree in Mh.U 

ideal or Automobile Engineering of recognised ihmeigitv 
or equivalent (Or) First class Diploma in A utoiiiobiiV 
Engineering of recognised Institution. (ii) At least five 
years’ experience in the case of degree holders in Mecha- 
nieal or Automobile Engineering or equivalent as Mtvha. 
nical /Automobile Engineer including about three years’ 
experience of purchase, maintenance etc., oi vehicles mid 
spare parts, and about ten years’ experience in the case oi 
First class Diploma-holders in Automobile Engineering & 
Automobile Engineer including about five years’ experience 
*>l purchase, maintenance, repairs, etc., of vehicles and 
spare parts. For (b) and (c) : (i) At, least second das, 

degree in Mechanical or Elect neal or Automobile Kngmm 
ing or a First Class Diploma in Automobile WfiJIuieemig (lj 
recognised University / Institution, (n) About a y ear- 
expcrience ol research /design and development /ni.inuhii 
tore / inspection work pertaining to automobiles, 1 1 actor' 
and similar equipment, in the specialised branches such .»> 
Power Unit, Transmission and Suspension, etc, , m the ra>» 
o| degree holders and three years’ experience ol the snim 
in the ease oi diploma-holders. 

1 1 Two Assistant Regional Officers, Central Board of 
Film Censors at Bombay and Madras, Ministry of Informa- 
tion and Broadcasting. I\)4.s temporary hut iikel\ tv 
continue indefinitely. Tosts revived for Scheduled ( usU-* 
Scheduled Tribes candidates. Il no sir li candidate is 
available for the post a I Madias, it will he treat* d a> 
unreserved, lor Ihe post at Bombay, only Schedule! 
Castes/ Scheduled Tribes candidates need apply. Pay: 
Rs. 590 — 30 — 830 —35- 900. Higher initial pay to specwlh 
qualified and experienced candidates. Age: Between :b 
and 45 years. Qualifications; Essential -(a) Degree <>i i 
recognised University. (h) Sound knowledge ol Hindi nr 
Marathi or Gujarati and its literature in respect ol post 
at Bombay, and of Tamil or Telugu or Kunnda or Malawi- 
lam and its literature in respect <»i ilie post at Madras 
(c) Adequate knowledge' of current atiaiis, Indian I listen 
anri culture of India. 

12. One Extra Assistant Director (Forestry) for tto 
Central Water and Power Commission. Post o-mpoian 
but likely to continue. Pay: Rs. 350 — 25—500- -40 
E.B. - -30 — 800 — E.B. — #‘10 — 830 — 3.5 —900. Higher nut ml ;*•»? 
to specially qualifies! and experienced candidate. Age: h 
years and below. Qualifications; Essential— d) llightr 
standard Certificate of Northern /Southern Forest Haujio( 
College, Dehra Dun /Coimbatore. (ii) About lour years’ 
experience in soil and water conservation in relation T0 
forestry . 

13. One Director, Social Education Organiser’s Training 

Centre, Ranchi, Ministry of Community Development ana 
co-operation. Post temporary. Pay: Rs. 900 — 40 - L1IT-- 
50/2—1,150. Higher initial pay to KfmciuUy qualified 
experienced candidate. Age: Preferably between 39 *■’ 

years for all including Government servants. Qualification • 
Essential— (i) M.A. or M.Sc. Degree ol a iveogn'^ 
University in Anthropology with special papers in ( ll ‘* lir ^ u 
Anthropology, (ii) Experience of research work ,n . “'Vj 
economic life of Indian tribes, as evidenced by puhli>> e 
work. 

14. Four Managers, Grade I /Deputy Assistant 
Officers, Employees State Insurance Corporation, Mini* n 
Labour and Employment. Posts temporary' but likjy ‘ 
letained on |>ermanent basis. Pay: Rs. 325---;>-“ • ^ 
E.B. — 30 — 700. Higher initial pay to specially quanta-’ 4 * 



►akt IT] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 7, 1962 


259 


uperienced candidates. Age: 30 years and below. Quali- 
ClMntili — (i) Degree of a recognised University. 
|-v About three yeais’ experience in. a responsible capacity 
i Government or quasi-Govermnent Organisution or public 
pdy or Insurance Company or Scheduled Bank. 

15, One Map Offioer, Office of the Reglitrar General of 
ndia p Ministry of Home Affairs. Post temporary but 
keiv to continue and be retained oa permanent basis, 
ost reserved lor Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidate; it no 
nch suitable candidate available, will be treated as 
preserved. Pay: Rs. 7(K)— 40— 1,1CX>— 50/2— 1 ,2.50. Higher 
litial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate, 
ige: 40 years and below. Qualifications: Essential — 
i) Master’s oi equivalent Honours’ Degree in Geography 
r allied subject of a recognised University, (ltekixable in 
ise of candidates showing high proficiency in the compila- 
on, drawing and reproduction methods of geographical and 
tatistical maps, charts and diagrams.) (ii) About throe 
ears’ experience in responsible position in a map publi- 
ition office of standing, with knowledge of different 
perations of production of maps including drawing and 
nnting. (iii) About two years’ experience in Applied 
artography. 

Corrigendum 

Officer-in-charge, Abstracts Servtoes, in the Indian 
ouncll of Agricultural Roeearch. In partial modification 
f Commission’s advertisement No. 20, item No. 2, which 
ppcared oil 19th May 1902, it is notified for general 
itormation that the designation of the post has been 
hanged to Statistician. Other things remain unchangt^d. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 

eneral Instructions to candidates applying in response to 
advertisements issued by the Commission for recruit- 
ment to posts of “Selection". 

(l) Instructions regarding submission of application. - 

ipphcations are to he made on the prescribed term which 
nil be available from the office of the Public Service Oora- 
ussion, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor), 
dipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a large self- 
ddressecl envelope with stamps sufficient to cover the 
Kxitage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 
opieK of the prescribed form may apply on any similar 
ypeil (not handwritten) form showing exactly the word- 
iiff and spacing of the sample form published in the 
Calcutta Gazette” of the 1st September 1955, provided 
he blanks are filled up in the candidates’ own handwriting. 

W) Particulars and oartlfioates required.— Candidates 

huuld turnish evidence erf their age, qualifications and 
>revious experience together with certificates written not 
"ore than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
rom responsible persons, testifying to their private 
haraoter. 

The Commission accepts only the age of a candidate as 
forded m the Matriculation or the Secondary School 
•inal/ heaving Certificate. In the case of a ieinale candi- 
p e whose age is not recorded in the Matriculation or 
s ^nool Final Certificate, any ol the following evidence of 
€® is accepted by the Commission: — 

b A certificate from the Headmistress of the school 
which she last attended, showing her exact age as 
recorded in the school register. 

An affidavit regarding her age sworn by her father 
or mother or some other person in a position to 
know by having been present or heard of her birth 
at the time of occurrence. 

A certificate regarding her age, from a Member of 
the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who must 
have known the candidate and her family, indicat- 
ing clearly the evidence on the basis of which he/ 
she satisfied himself /herself on the point. 

^ Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tor ‘J 66 of He. 6 in the form of a receipted chalan 
a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India 


under the head 4 ‘XXX VI — Miscellaneous — Receipts of the 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal”. Money ordero, 
cheques, etc., in lieu of treasury challans are not accepted. 
Postal order, however, may be accepted from candidates. 
They should be crossed and made payable to "The Secro- 
tary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal”. No appli- 
cation will be considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application fee. 

Candidates abroad may deposit their application fees 
with the High Commissioner of India or the Embassy, aa 
the case may be, and obtain receipts lor the same, which 
will have to be attached to their applications to be sub- 
mitted to the Commission. 

Candidates in Government service should make sure 
bet ore depositing fee that their applications will be forward- 
ed by their superior officers. In no case will the fee paii 
with the application be refunded. 

The Commission may remit fee in case of genuine 
indigent and bona fide displaced person from Pakistan. 

An indigent displaced person shall, in the first instance, 
pay tlie application fee prescribed for a gazetted poet 
ad\ertised by the Commission but if he/she is selected for 
and apjiears at the interview, the fee paid by him/her will 
be refunded afterwards. 


Note. — “(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must iurnibh with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, e.g 
reiugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original. 

(n) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Iriho claiming age concession must furnish with his appli- 
cation a certificate in original trom a gazetted officer or a 
Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging to 
the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 

(in) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion lee must furnish besides the evideno© required under 
Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.” 

(4) Address. — Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 

(5) Canvassing. — Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons ol 
in II uence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
ixirsong interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will be disregarded. 

(6) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Dnmodar Valley Corporation), in 
Fndia will ho rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 

Candidates serving under Government or* a local or 
Statutory Body should submit an advance copy in the pros- 
cribed form. The application fee should in such cases be 
attached to the advance copy and not to the original. The 
candidature of such applicants may not however be con- 
sidered it the original applications do not reach the Com- 
mission’s office within a fortnight from the closing date. 
Unless applications in original or advance copies with 
application fees are received within the closing date, late 
applications may be rejected. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Alipore, the 27th January 1961. 


260 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 7, 1962 


[Part ii 


Advertisement No. 35. 

APPLICATIONS are invited from Indian citizens for the 
following posts: — 

(u) One Assistant Professor of Leather Manufacture, 
College of Leather Technology, Calcutta. Post permanent. 
Pay: R H . 300- 30— 900 (E.B. after Mh and 10th stages) 
per month plus house rent allowance as admissible umlt r 
tin Miles. Higher initial pay up to Rs. 450 may be granted 
to a candidate, not already in Government service, on the 
bans of qualifications and experience. 

Qualifications: (i) B.Hc. with Chemistry ns one of the 
subjects, preference being given to those having Honours 
in Chemistry; (u) A first class Diploma or Certificate in 
Leather Technology of a recognised institute of Leather 
Trudo in India or foreign countries; (iii) Intimate know- 
ledge of modern tanning methods acquired through prac- 
tical work for lour years in Commercial tanneries and 
Inning teaching experience in modern tanning processes 
and knowledge of western method ol fanning. Age: 
Between 25 and 40 years on the 1st dune 1902, relaxable 
hi the case ol candidates specially qualified. 

(h) One Poultry Development Officer In the West Bengal 
Agricultural Service. Post temporary. Persons having a 
lien or a conditional lien on a permanent, post, in the 
Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department, 
West Bengal, who are eligible lor appointment to the po-t 
by promotion are ineligible to apply. Pay: Hs. 1100 — 30 — 

000 per month. 

Qualifications: Essential -ti) A degree in Agriculture or 
Veterinary Science or a diploma in Veterinary Science ol 
u recognised University or institution; Or, A certificate, or 
diploma in Poultry Husbandry ol recognised Institution 
abroad; Or, A degree in Science with a reasonably good 
training in some aspects of Animal Husbandry Ironi a 
recognised institution, preference being given to those 
with a second class Master’s or Honours degree in Science 
ami having a high standard of Post-graduate training in 
Poultry Keeping; (u) Sound experience of management 

01 Poultry or Poultry Research, preferably under Indian 
< oiulition ; Or, A Post -graduate degree or diploma in 
Poultry Keeping. Desirable- (i) Administrative expel leuce ; 

(ii) Sound knowledge of Bengali - spoken and written; 

(iii) Knowledge ol livestock extension work in rural condi- 
tions. Age: Not, more than 25 years on the 1st duly 1902, 
reluxable lor exceptionally well-qualified candidates. 

(t ) Four Lecturers In Mathematics (Posts temporary but 
likely to be made permanent), 

(d) One Lecturer in History (Post temporary). 

In the West Bengal Junior Educational Service (Men’s 
Branch). Women unsuitable. Pay: — Its. 275 — 15-350 — 
20- 050 per mouth plus house-rent allowance s admisdlm 
under the rules. Higher initial pay up to Its. 1150 may be 
planted on i lie basis of qualifications and experience. 

Qualifications: Essential— For Lecturers in Mathematics: 
A fust class Master’s degree m Pure Mathematics, Or, A 
second class Master’s degree in Pure Mathematics with 
first class Honours in Mathematics, Or, A Doctorate degree 
with fust class Honours in Mathematics or second class 
Master’s degree in Pure Mathematics ol an Indian 
University ; 

Or, 

Equivalent foreign qualifications; 

Or, 

If a candidate has otherwise a good academic record, a 
second ( lass Master’s degree ill Pure Mathematics with 
second class Honours in Mathematics plus five years’ 
teaching experience in a recognised college as a wholetime 
teacher in th« subject. The period of teaching experience 
may be relaxed at the discretion of the Commission. 

For Lecturer in History: A first class Master’s degree. 
Or, A second class Master’s degree with first class Honours 
in the Bacheloi’s degiee, Or, A Doctorate degree with a 
first class Honours or second class Master’s degree, in 
History, of an Indian University; 

Or, 

Equivalent foreign qualifications; 

Or, 

If a candidal e has otherwise a good academic record, a 
second class Master’s degree with second class Honours m 
the Bachelor's degree in History plus live years’ teaching 


experience in a recognised Collage as a whole-time tou<5 c 
in the subject. The period of fetching experience may 0 
relaxed at the discretion of the Commission. 


Desirable — (Fcr all the posts) — Good power of express, 
in Bengali — spoken and written. 


Age: (For all the posts) — Not more than 35 years on tn, 
1st .June BK!2, reluxable in the case of specially qualified 
candidates and for persons holding substantive appum;. 
meiil in the Education Department, West Bengal. 


(e) One Assistant Research Officer for the Physical 
Section in the River Research Institute, West Bengal, in 
the West Bengal General 8ervloe. Post temporary, pay. 
Hs. 275 15 - 350 — 20—550 (E.B. after 8th and 

stages) per month plus house-rent, allowance as admissible 
under tin* rules. Higher initial pay up to Hs. 450 ma} fo. 
granted on the basis ol qualifications and experience. 

Qualifications: A Doctorate degree or an M.Sc. derive 
with at least a second class Honours degree, in any hr.ni, h 
ol Physics. AgO: Ordinarily not more than 27 years on th 
1st June 1902. 


< i ) One Manager, Headquarters under the Vagrancy 
Directorate, West Bengal. Post temporary. Persons 
having a lien or a conditional lien on a permanent post in 
1 lie Relief Department , West Benral. wnn arc eligible no 
appointment to the post by promotion are ineligible to 
apply. Pay: Hs. 250- -15 — 550 (E.B. after 8th and loth 
stages) per month pi us hourc-rent allowance rvMd*'>issiU.-> 
und'*r the rules. 


Qualifications: Essential— (i) A degree of a recognise) 
University; (ii) Three* years’ administrative expencm e in 
social service organisations or institutions and aplitud* |..r 
work in connection with charitable institutions; (in) Know 
ledge ol stores and accounts work; (iv) Knowledge >»l 
Bengali and Hindi. Desirable— Caput ity to onrnmw gimiji 
activity. Age: Between 25 and 15 years on the lo Jun. 
1002, the upper age limit he.ng reluxable ini exu-ptmiidh 
qualified candidates. 


Age Concession 

The upper age-limit, for all tin* posts is reluxable hv me 
years lor Scheduled Castes/Tribes and up to 45 years lot 
displaced persons trom Pakistan. 

A candidate who before the 15th August 1917 mis 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account *>• 
his/her activities »n connection with the country’s strngglf 
tor independence, not being convicted oi an ofh no- 
indicating moral turpitude ? ball be entitled to a confession 
in respect of the upper age limit . The concession giannd 
will be equal to the exact period of detention, imprison- 
ment. internment or oxternment suffered up to a maximum 
of lour years. 


Apply to Secretary with a Treasury Chalan of Its. *» 
under head “XNT — M iseellaneoux Receipts of Palm' 
Service Commission, West Bengal”, or a crossed Pwd:n 
Order of Hs, 5 payable to “Secretary. Public Service Uoiii 
mission. West Bengal”. Overseas candidates may depmU 
their application fees with the High Commission of 1 nd:.i 
ol tbt' Indian Embassy, as the ease may be. Particular-* 
and prescribed application forms arc obtainable from d"' 
office of the Commission, Anderson House (ground 
Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a s< ‘ 1 
addressed large* envelope with postage stamp oi 35 11 P «m<l 
the name of the post superscribed on the envelope Tho-*’ 
who intend to take application fomiR and/or subnut d ,l? 
applications personally should do so between 19 15 
and 3 (H) p.m. on full working days and between 19 15 n 
and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 

Closing date — The 25th June 1962. 


A. C. ROY, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bciiifal 

Alipore, the 23rd May 1962. 


Pa*t I 1 ! 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 7, 1962 


261 


Advertisement No. 37 

APPLICATIONS are invited from Indian citizens for the 
following posts: 

( B ) One Joint Director of Industrie! (SerlouRure), West 
Bengal in the West Bengal General 8ervloe. Post tern- 
ary. Women unsuitable. Pay; Rs. 400—45 — 850 — 50 
Ll.llAO (E.B. after 8th and lGth stages) plus a special 
imv ol Rs- 200 per month plus house rent allowance as 
,dinissible under the rules. 

Qualifications: Essential — (i) A second class Master's or 
Honours degree in Zoology, or Rotany of a recognised 
Iniwrsity or its equivalent; (ii) Thorough knowledge oi 
, R <1 wide experience in Sericulture; (in') Adequate admiiiis- 
trati vi experience. Desirable— (i) Acquaintance with :b« 
ochnical and economic problems relating to Sericulture and 
^ilk Industry in West Bengal and other silk producing 
states; (ii) A Doctorate in Entomology: (iii) Know- 
edge of Bengali — spoken and written. Age; Not more than 
[.Wears on the 1st duly 19(32, relaxahle in case of persons 
,|)ena1l,v qualified and experienced. 

(h) One Assistant Professor of Leather Micro-Biology, 
College of Leather Technology, Calcutta. Tost temporary. 
Pay: Its. IKK) — MO — 9()0 (E.B. after 8th and 10th stage's) 
)er month plus house rent allowance as admissible under 
ho rules. Higher initial pay up to Rs. 450 may be 
par.tod to a candidate, not already in Government service, 
in the basis of qualifications and experience. 

Qualifications; Essentia^ -(i) M.Se. in Chemistry of a 
reognised University; (ii) Three years’ experience in 
holngieal resarch ; (iii) Teaching experience in Baeie.no- 
nuy and Microscopy ol Leather manufacture in a roeog- 
nsccl leather trades institute. Desirable — Second class 
LK<\ in Chemistry. Age: Between 25 and 40 years on the 
st July 1902, relaxahle in th<‘ cases qf candidates specially 
ualificd and experienced. 


Age Concession 
• 

The upper age limit for all the posts is relaxahle hv five 
ea r s lor Scheduled ( Juntos /Tribes and up to 45 years for 
ispiiiccd persons irom Pakistan. 

A candidate v\ ho before the 15th August. J947 was 
‘tamed imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
|k activiti(»s in connection with the country's st niggle fop 
dependence, not. being convicted of an offence indicating 
icial tm pitude. shall he entitled to a concession in respect 
I the upper ago limit. The concession granted will be 
hi tin exact period of detention, imprisonment, 
itcrnincnt or externment suffered up to a maximum ol 
»ur years. 

Ap|»ly to Secretary with a Treasury Chalan of Rs. 5 
dor head “NXI — M iscellancHius — Receipts of Public 

‘‘nice Commission, West Bengal”, or a (Crossed Postal 
,( lor o| Rs. 5 payable to “Secretary, Public Service (’out- 
Wmn, West Bengal”. Oversells candidates may deposit 
,(,M * application fees with the High Com mission ol India 
tho Indian Embassy, as the case may he. Particulars 
d prescribed application terms obtainable from the ofliee 
the Commission, Anderson House (ground floor) 
M‘<»re Caleuft a-27, personally or on sending a self- 
KrcsHed large envelope with postage stamp of 115 nP. and 
£ name ol the post superscribed on the envelope. Those 
0 intend to take application forms and/or submit apjdi- 
l' nn N personally should do so between 10-15 a. m. and 
,.J un - on full working days and between 10-1.5 a. in. and 
Mi. on Saturdays. 

Cl «lng date— The sth July 1002 . 


A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

ipore ’ 20th May 1962. 


IN THE *TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 

Insolvency Cate No. 22 of 1062 

Tinkrri Laha of 0 Jagannath Sarker Lane, police-station 
Watgunge, district 24-Parganas, Debtor-Applicant. 

To Biswanath Guha, an employe© under Brooke Bond 
(India) Ltd., factory at Hide Road, C'aleut la-41, and 
11 others, Creditors. 

ON the 25th day of May 1%2 it was ordered that the 
matter ol the petition of the applicant he heard on the 
29th day ol June 1902 and that the said applicant to 
attend to be examined by this court on that date. 


A. P. BH ATTACH AIM EE. Sub-Judge-in-charge 
Alipore. the 28th May 10(52. 

(577- 1) 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 

Insolvency Case No. 23 of 1962. # 

Gopinath Moudal of 3 Hide Road, police-station S.D.P.P., 
district 24-Parganas. Debtor-Applicant. 

To Gaya Roy, Ticket No. POO of Brooke Bond (India) Ltd., 
at 3 Hide Road, Cnlcuttu-41 and 11 others, Creditors. 

4>N the 22nd day of Mav 1902 it was ordered that, the 
matter of the petition of the applicant he heard on tho 
29th day of June 1902 and that, the said applicant to 
attend to he examined by this court on that date. 


A. P. Bll ATTACH AR.J EE, Sub-Judge-in-charge. 
Alipore, the 28th May 1902. 

(578—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT ASAN80L 


Insolvency Case No. 16/62 

Petit loner; Ram Kripal Singh Khalaslii, T. No. 132/ 
1 009 A in the Indian Iron tV Steel Co. Ltd (Steel 
Section) Burnpur. 

IT is hereby notified that tin* nhovenamed petitioner hu:; 
applied to he adjudged an insolvent, lie- (’oint has regis- 
tered that application and fixed 10th July 1962 for the 
hearing thereof. 

N. C. DI’TTA, Sub-Judge. 

(594—1) 


IN THE COURT OF MUNSIF, 1ST MADHUBANI, 
DISTRICT DARBHANGA 

T. S. 118/60. 

Kidli Nath Jha and others, Plaint ill. 

versus # 

Buchi Lai Choudliarv and oilier-, Dclcndant. 

NOTICE is hereby given to Bilat. Kamat. son o) Chumaii 
Kama t , alive, by cast K('ot of village llal tar-Rupauhb, 
lVrgatia Loarn, police-station Jhaniharpiir. at piescnt- in 
service as a Driver at Ashomidatto Road No, 13, Caleutta- 
29, to appear before the court either personally or through 
his authorised agent on 25th June 1962 or else the writ will 
bo decided ex-party against him. 

BHAGIRATiil RAI, Munsif. 

(502—1) 


262 


THE CALCUTTA QAZB1TK, JUNE 7, 1962 [Part D 


III tHE COURT OF THE SUBORDINATE JUDGE, 
RANCHI 

Mortgage Suit No. 56 of 1957 

Chotanagpur Catholic Minion Co-operative Credit Society, 
Ranchi, Plaintiff— Decree-Holder. 

versus 

Manorama Devi and others, Defendants— Judgment- 
Debtors. 

TT/O 5, R 20, C.P.G. 

To Manorama Debi, wife of R. B. Rajendra Nath Guha, 
ft N. C. Mitter Road, Dum Dum Cantonment, 24- 
Parganas, Calcutta, West Bengal. 

WHEREAS the plaintiff decree-holder has applied for final 
decree in the above suit. Notice is hereby given to you 
that 15th June 1962 at 6-30 a.in. has been fixed for filing 
objection or written rejoinder, if any, you are hereby 
summoned to appear and file such objection, if any, failing 
which the matter will be heard ex parte. 

J. P. SINGH. 

Special Subordinate Judge, Ranchi. 

* (W)l — 1) 


DISTRICT DM ANII AD 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE, 1ST COURT, 
OHANBAD 

Execution Case No. 656 of 1636 

Banwarilal Agarwalln and othcis. Decree-holders 
versus 

Surja Nnraytin Siiighn and others, Judgment-debtors. 

To 1(b) Laxini Kumari Devi, wife ot Mukhtar Shamhhu 
Nath Singha Roy. resident of Ranaghat, Nadia, West 
Bengal. 

WHEREAS Banwarilal Agarwalln and others, the deem - 
holders, has made an application to this Court lor 
execution of the, decree passed in Original Suit No. Ibh3 
of 19:38 of the Court of the High Court of Judicature at 
Calcutta, Original Side, on the allegations that you ar* 
the legal representative* of the Judgment-debtors this is 
to give vou notice that yc/u are to appear before this Court 
on the 7th day of June 1962 to show cause why execution 
should not be granted. 

Given under my hand and the seal of the Court this the 
22nd day of May 1962. 

KAMLA PRASAD S1NHA, Sub-Judge. 

(579—1) 


DISTRICT DHANBAD 

IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE, 18T COURT, 
DHANBAD 

Title Mort. Suit No. 11 of 1952 

Onkannall Agarwalla, Plaintiff, 
versus 

Pundra Coal Syndicate and others, Defendant. 

To Lnxmi Kumari Debi, w/o Mukhtar Sambhu Nath Singh 
Roy of Ranaghat, Nadia, West Bengal. 

WHEREAS nbovenamed plaintiff has instituted a suit 
against you ior making the preliminary decree final, and 
summons wen* duly issued to you to appear m the corn l 
in person or by a pleader duly instructed and able to 


answer all material questions relating to suit or who sh\) 
be accompanied by some persons able to answer all Sll(1 | 
questions on the date fixed and whereas you have 
and neglected to appear in Court on the date fixed h 
your appearance. You are hereby directed to appear , 
person or through a lawyer on tho 18th June 1962 tailin' 
which the matter will be heard and determined ex parte \ 
your absence. 

Given under my hand and seal of this Court this th 
29th day of May 1962. 

K. P. S1NHA, Sub-Judge. 

( 570—1 


DISTRICT DHANBAD 

IN THE COURT OF THE 8UB-JUDGE, 18T COURT, 
DHANBAD 

Execution Cate No. 236 of 1937 

Banwarilal Agarwalla and others. Decree-holders, 
versus 

Surja Narayan Singha and others, Judgment-debtors. 

To J(h) Laxini Kumari Devi, wife of Mukhtar Shamh’n 
Nath Singha Roy, resident of Ranaghat, Nadia, VYc: 
Bengal. 

WHEREAS Banwarilal Agarwalla and others. the clear 
holders, has made an application to this Court ii 
execution of the decree passed in Money Suit No 101 
1931 ot the Court of the Subordinate Judge, Asansol. i 
the allegations that you are the legal representatives 
the Judgment-debtors this is to give you notice that yc 
are to appear before* this Court on the 7th day oi Jui 
1962 to show cause why execution should not he granted 

Given under my hand and the seal of the Court this I 1 
22nd day of May 1962. 


KAMLA PRASAD SINHA. Sub-Juilfi 

( 5 * 0 - 


D1STR1CT DHANBAD 

IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE, 2ND COURT, 
DHANBAD 

Misc. Case No. 31 of 1960 

Sree Onkarmal Agarwalla, Applicant, 
versus 

Kurya Narain Singh and others, Opposite Part a*. 

To Laxini Kumari l)evi, wife of Mukhtar Sam him ^ 
Singha Roy, of Ranaghat, West Bengal, district * Vl(11 

WHEREAS the nbovenamed applicant has filed a 
Case under Order 9, Rule 8, C.P.G. , for restoration ot 
original title suit No. 6 of 1958. Notice has been is** 
several times to you but. you are avoiding the s ^ n,(C 
notice. You are hereby warned to appear before the cn 
in person or by a duly instructed pleader on 23rd duin* • 
at 6-30 a.m. to show cause against the Misc. Case, »»u 
which the said Misc. Case will be heard and determ 
ex parte against you. 

Given under my hand and the seal of this court, tin*'' 1 
18th day of May 1962. 

A, %. ISMAILI, Sub-fmlr- 

( 593 — 


>*«T II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 7, 1962 ' 


263 


RADHA KANTA DE, LL.B,, intends to be enrolled as 
H Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 473 — 4 ) 


SHVAM SUNDER SANGANAR1A, LL.B,, intends to be 
nrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 474 — 4 ) 


PRASUN KUMAR MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends 
0 be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 47 5 - 4 ) 


DHIRENDRA NATH BASAR, LL.B., intends to be 
^rolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 476 — 4 ) 


, rjn -*» 

SAM AREN DR A NATH MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B., in- 
tends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 

( 477 — 4 ) 


RAMAPRASAD TARAPHDAR, M.A., LL.B., intends to 
lie enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 478 — 4 ) 


BIMAL BANDHU BHOWM1C, M.Com., LL.B., intend# 
o be enrolled aB an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 479 — 4 ) 


AIUIN PROKASH SIRCAR, LL.B., intends to be 
snrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 480 — 4 ) 


NAL KUMAR SEN. M.A., LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
[ 1111 Advocate at the Calcutta High Court. 

( 489 — 4 ) 


‘^KltlSHNA 8AHARAY, LL.B., intend n to he 
h* un Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

( 490 — 4 * 


RATH1NDRA NATH CHATTOPADHYAY, M.Com., LL.B., 
intends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court. 

( 491 - 4 ) 


ANADI PRASANNA GHOSH, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 492 -- 4 ) 


BASUDEB BISWAS, LL.R., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 493 — 4 * 


SHR1 PROTIP BEJOY PiL intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

♦ ( 494 — 4 ) 


SHRJ AMAL KUMAR BA8U, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 495 — 4 ) 


SHRJ AMARESH CHANDRA CH A KR AB ART Y , LL.B., 
intends to bo enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court. 

( 496 - 4 ) 


SAURYAB1KAS BASU, LL.IL, intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate of tho Calcutta High Court. 

( 497 — 4 ) 


HARIPRASAD SHARMA, LL.B., intends to bo enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 498 — 4 ) 


DINABANDUU MANDAL, LL.B., intends to bo enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 499 — 4 ) 


BTMANKANTI BASU, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 500 — 4 ) 



264 


THE CALCUTTA. GAZETTE, JUNE 7, 1962 


[Part 5 



INDRANARAYAN JA8, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

/ 1 \ 


DBBENDRAMOHAN MUKHOPADHYAY, LUB., intend 
to be enrolled as an Advocate o£ the Calcutta High Court 


SANKARDAS BAGCHI, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
aD Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 


DILIP KUMAR MITRA, LLJB., intends to he enrolled i 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


BARINDRA NATH PAUL. LL.B.. intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


ASOK KUMAR HOR, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as , 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 519-4 


«*. B.KWAS*™ - *• "* ”'•* 


gfflua of Calcutta High Court. 


(GOD — 4) 


I VAIDY ANATHA MUTHUKAMI LL.B„ to bc 

enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 


(610—4) 


PARES11 CHANDRA DEB. LL.B.. intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of tho Calcutta High Court. 

(511— -i) 


I SHRl PHAN (JOUR SARKAR. LL.B intend to be 
enrolled us an Advocate of tho Calcutta High Cou . 


(612—4) 


JTBON LAL GHATAK, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(51o- — 4.1 


ASOKASISil MAITRA, LL.B.. intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(514 — 4) 


BIBHUTl PRASAD MODI. LL.B . intends to be enrolle d 
as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 


(616—4) 


(630-4 


ALOKKNATH MUKHER.1EE, Pleader, intends to be t 
rolled as an Advocate in the Calcutta Bar Council. 


(622— 


TAPENDRANARAY AN RAY CHOWDHURY 
intends to be enrolled rs an Advocate, Cal. High < ""it 


(fllSl- 


BASUDKB SIL, LL B-. intends to ho eniolleil 
Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 


(.VJl- 


SUBHARKUMAR PAL LL.B., intends to he unrolled 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


MITKTTN ATI! MUKHOPADHYAY LL^ H i:;»^ t ' 0 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta mg" 


(.lVV- 


DIPAK KUMAR R'AY, LL.B., intends to he enrolled 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. ^ 


NRIPKNOHAN 
enrolled as an 


CHAUDHURl, LL.B.. intends to be 
.„+n of the Calcutta High Court. 


( 616 — 4 ) 


HINDRA KUMAR GHOSH, LL .® 'High^ouU 
lied as an Advocate of the Calcutta Hig 


to 


1836 - 


urr H] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 7, 1962 


265 


4\I A PH All MISHIIA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
Advocate of the Culcutta High Court. 

( 636 — 4 ) 


(HRIDHARI KUNDU, M.Com., LL.B 
rolled a*x an Advocate of the Calcutta 


., intends to be en- 
High Court. 


(545—4) 


i{R[ DTJRGA PAPA CIJHA, LL.B., intends to be enroll- 
| as an "Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(537—4) 


GIJUPHARI LALL SHARMA, LL.B., intends to be en- 
rolled us an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


( 546 - 4 ) 


HRI SAMAR KUMAR BANERJEE, LL.B., intends to 
> enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 538 - 4 ) 


DWTJENDRA LAL LASKAR, LL.B., 
rolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta 


intends to be eu- 
High Court. 


(547-4) 


HRI SUNIL RAN.TAN BANERJEE, LL.B., intends to be 
nrol'ed as an Advoca-te of Calcutta High Court. 

(539—4) 


ANIMESH DAS, LL.B., intends to be 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


enrolled aa an 
(548—4) 


HR I KARTICK CHANDRA DUTT, LL.B., intends to be 
n rolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 540 — 4 ) 


(JA.IKNDRA NATH CHAKRA VARTY. LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(54ft — 4) 


Hill NIRMAL KUMAR' SAHA, LL.B., intends to be 

moll.,! as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. SHR1 B1SYVANATH SKN, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 

(541 4) us « n Advoeam of the Calcutta 11 igh Court. 

( 651 - 4 ) 


HRI TARA PADA DUTTA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
v an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(542—4) 


BIBIIUTI BHUSAN BHAUMIK, LL.B., intends to 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


be 


(552—4) 


•oiLi }IMAL KANJAN ROTCHOWDHURI intends 
e,J as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 


to be 


(543—4) 


A JIT KUMAR PRASAD, LL.B. intends to bo 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


enrolled 

( 553 - 4 ) 


l Bl toi L BA NDHU BHADURI, M.A. (Com.), LL.B 
be enrolled as an Advocate of Cal. High Ooun 


.(644-4) 


SUDHAMAY DAS. LL.B. intends to be enrolled 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


as an 


<554-4) 


266 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 7, 1962 


[Pari u 


SANTOSH CHANDRA GUPTA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate oi the Calcutta High Court. 

( 555 — 4 ) 


HlMADlUNATil MUKHOPADHYAY, intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate oi' Calcutta High Court. 

( 657 - 4 ) 


SYED MOHAMMED MASUD, LL.B., intends to be en- 
rolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta* High Court. 

( 558 - 4 ) 


SHIM TARITB1KAS DEB, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 559 — 4 ) 


SHK1 S YAMAL KUMAR HA JR A, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate c/f the High Court at Calcutta. 

( 560 — 4 ) 


NARBAHADUR KHAR'GA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as a a Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 561 — 4 ) 


SHIM AMT KUMAR SINHA ROY, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 562 — 4 ) 


SHR1 BAlDYANATn CHAKRA BARTI. LL.B., intends to 
tie enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 563 — 4 ) 


SHRI NANDALAL MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 564 - 4 ) 


SHRI SATYENDRA NATH DUTTA, LL.B., intends to K 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. ® 


( 56 . 5—4 


SHRI BENAY KUMAR SAHA, M.A., LL.B., mtonds 
be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 566 - 


sriiu A JIT KUMAR CHATTOPADHYAY, LL.B., fat* 
to bo enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Corn 


(o67^ 


SHRI SUN HIM A L PRATIHAR. M.A., LL.B.. intends 
be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 56 *- 


BARINDK'ANATH RAY, LL.B., intends to be enrolled! 
an Advocate of the* Calcutta High Court 

* (SOW 


AM IT ABM A RAY, LL.B.. intends to bo enrolled jh .*1 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 5* *- ll 


MR AD KUMAR BASU, LL.B., intends to be enroll*! i 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


ATM A RAM SAUAOGI, LL.B., intends to be enioli*! 1 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. j 


APt'RBA KUMAR MALLICK, LL.B., intends “> 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High tourt. 

( 600 - 


Part II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 7 , 1962 


267 


NOTICE 


(V ruler section 509 of the Companies Act) 

IN THE MATTER OF N. K. JAIN AND CO. 
PRIVATE LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION) 

\OTlCE is hereby given that a General Meeting of the 
/Witors of the abovonamed Company will bo held at 
v o / (Hive Row in Calcutta, on Monday, the 9th day 
i rulv JW2, at the hour of 3 o’clock in the afternoon for 
Considering the accounts prepared by the Liquidator 
howing how the winding up has been conducted and dis- 
I’nisal ol the Books and papers ot the Company. 

Dated the 2nd day of June 1902. 

R. A. RAMAN, 

P. N. BANNERJEE, 

Joint Liquidator. 

(595—1 ) 


NOTICE 


(C sader section 509 of the Companies 'Act) 

IN THE MATTER OF N. K. JAIN AND CO. 
PRIVATE LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION) 


NOTICE is hereby Riven tlml n General Meetinn «.l tin 

shareholders of the abovenamed Company will bo held at 

v„ 2': ! Clive How in Calcutta, on Monday, the 9th da.* 
ot July l!Ki2, at the hour of 2 o’clock in the afternoon tor 
ronsidcnnR the accounts prepareil by the Liquidator 
showing how the winding up has been conducted. 

Dit«xl the 2nd day of ’June 1962. 


R. A. RAMAN, 

P. N. BANNERJEE, 

Joint Liquidators. 

(59G — 1 ) 


NOTICE 


NOTICE 


NOTICE is hereby given that the Debenture Stock Certi- 
ficate No. 2510 for Rs. 15,000 originally issued by Messrs. 
Caltex Oil Refining (India] Ltd., in the name ot Sirs. Sain 
Curlender has been lost or mislaid. Due notice thereof has 
been given to the Company and any person Jiuding the 
said debenture stock certificate should return it to the 
undersigned. All persons are warned against dealing wilti 
the debenture stock certificate in any way. 


MRS. SARA CTRL ENDED 


Tiie 27th April 1962. 

87- K Park Street, Calcutta-lG. 


C5H8—1) 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, 1956 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF AI8C0 PRINTERS PRIVATE 
LIMITED (IN LIQUIDATION) 

Notloe convening final meeting 

NOTICE is heieby given in pursuance ot section 497 that 
n General Meeting of the members of the alHivenamcd 
company will bo held at the Office of the Liquidator at 
8/2 Hastings Street, 2nd Floor, Calcutta, on the 10th day 
of July 19G2, at 2 o’clock in tho afternoon for the purpose 
of having an account laid before them showing tho manner 
in which the winding up has been conducted and the pro- 
perty of the Company disposed of and of hearing any 
explanation that may be given by the liquidator ami also 
of determining hv a special resolution of the company, the 
manner in W'hich the books, accounts and documents ol the 
lompanv and ol the liquidator shall be disposed ol. 

Dated this 29th day of May 1902. 

ANANTA KUMAR GEY, 

For Sell and Co-Liquidator. 

(597 — 1) 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIE6 ACT, 1966 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF COLLIERY CONTRACTORS 
PRIVATE LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION) 

NOTICE is hereby given th.it by i Special Resolution, the 
Company was wound up voluntarily by Members and 
Creditors in their respective meeting held on 12th March 
19G2 and Sbri N. N. Das. F.C.A.. has been appointed as 
Liquidator for the purpose of such winding up. 

J. D. LA HA. Director. 

8 Lvons Range, Calcuttu-1 
The 23 rd Mav 1902. 

(581 — 1) 


NOTICE is hereby given that Shri Sat pal Singh lawni ol 
VI (la nes h Chandra Avenue, Calcutta, who was taken in 
e a Working Partner in the firm of Messrs. H. Das Manu- 
teetunng Works of 9 Amratolla Street, Calcutta, and 
launir its Factory at Plot No. 246 Andul Road, Howrah, 
’rnler a Deed of Partnership, dated the 2nd March 1961, 
and registered at the Calcutta Registration Office in Rook 
So 4, Volume No. 49, Pages 4 to 11, being No. 3389 ior 
the year 19(>1 has retired from the aforesaid turn as on 
wd Horn the 1st day of April 11X32 and our clients 
Sin. Tarawanti Kothari and Sbri Harkishandas Nagindas, 
hot h ol 9 Amratolla Street, Calcutta, are carrying on the 
Sa nl partnership business of Messrs. H. Das Manufacturing 
Works as the Continuing Partners thereof in terms of the 
aWoinentioned Deed of Partnership. 

lift fed the 28th day of May 1962. 


J\ D. HIM ATSINGKA & CO 


FORM No. 151 
(See Rule 315) 

COMPANIES ACT, 1956 

MEMBERS’ VOLUNTARY WINDING UP 

Notice of appointment of Liquidator pursuant to 
section 510. 

Name uf Company. i he Electric Supply Co. ,>£ 

Kurd wan Ltd. • 

Natuic of Business: Electrical undertaking. 

Address of Registered Office: Grand Tmnk Road, 
Asansol. 

Name and address of Liquidator. St. John Domotriua, 
Messrs. George* Read Jr Co., Avenue House, 

Chowringhee Square. Calcutta. (Tn the vacancy 
caused by the resignation ot Sbii G Basil of G 
Hastings Street, Calcutta.) 


A ttornevs-at-Law for Sm. Tarawanti Kothari anu 
Shri Harkishandas Nagindas ot 9 Amratolla SDvcl, 

Calcutta. . 

(O 98 L ) 


Date of appointment: 1 7th May 1962. 

Bv whom appointed: Shareholders. 

(582—1) 


268 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETl'E, JUNE 7, 1962 


[Part n 


IN THE MATTER OF RAIGANJ DHANABHANDER 
LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION) 


(Pursuant to 8ection m of the Companies Act, 1956) 

NOTICE is hereby given that the following special resolu- 
tion was passed unanimously in the General Meeting of the 
Members ol the above Company hold on the 30th April 
19(32 at the premises of Managing Director: 

“Resolved unanimously that the Raiganj Dhanabhander 
Ltd. be and hereby voluntarily wind up under provisions 
ol the Members’ voluntary winding up from the date of 
passing the resolution and that Dr. Jamini Kanta 
Ghose, L.M.S., Shri Sukumar Ghose. B.L., and Shri 
Kshitisb Chandra Mitra, ILL., all of Raiganj, West 
Dinajpur, be and hereby appointed Liquidators of the 
Company with the powers for winding up the affairs of 
the Company and that remuneration of Liquidators be 
and is hereby fixed Rs. 1,500 only (Rupees fifteen 
hundred) including all expenses”. 


JAM INI KANTA GHOSE, 
SUKUMAR GHOSE, 

KSHITISH CHANDRA MITRA. 

Liquidators. 


Dated, Raiganj, West Dinajpur, 
The 5th May 1962. 


(586 — 1) 


IN THE MATTER OF C0MPANIE8 ACT, 1956 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF THE COAL PURCHA8E AND 
INSPECTION AGENCY (PRIVATE) LTD. 

Pursuant to Seotion 485(1) of the Aot 

NOTICE is hereby given that the abovementioned Company 
has been sent into Members’ Voluntary winding up by i 
Special Resolution passed in the Extraordinary General 
Meeting of the Company held on Friday, the 27th Oct ok r 
19(31. 


P. B. MAITRA, Liquidator. 
Dated, Calcutta the 28th October 1901. 

C/o. Messrs. K. Worah Co. Private Ltd. 

165 Canning Street, Caloutta-1. 


(585—1) 


FORM No. 151 


(See Rule 315) 

COMPANIES ACT, 195(5. 

MEMBERS’ VOLUNTARY WINDING-UP 

Notioo of appointment of Liquidators pursuant to 
Motion 516 

Name of the Company: Raiganj Dhanabhander Ltd. 
(In Liquidation). 

Nature of Business: Investment. 

AddresH of Registered Office: Raiganj, (West Dinaj- 
pur). 

Name and Address of Liquidators: (1) Dr. Janrini 
Kanta Ghose, L.M.S., Raiganj, West Dinajpur, 
(2) Shri Sukumar Ghose, B.L., Pleader, Raiganj, 
West Dinajpur, (6) Shri Kshitisb Chandra Mitra, 
B.L., Pleader, Raiganj, West Dinajpur. 

Date of appointment: 30th day of April 1962. 

Ry w'hom appointed: By Special Resolution of the 
Members of the Company. 


JAMENI KANTA GHOSE, 
SUKUMAR GHOSE, 

KSHITISH CHANDRA MITRA, 


Dated, Raiganj, West Dinajpur, 
The 5th May 1902. 


Liquidators. 
(587 — 1) 


FORM No. 151 


(See Rule 315) 

COMPANIES ACT, 1950. 

MEMBERS’ VOLUNTARY WINDING-UP 

Notloo of appointment of Liquidator pursuant to 
seotion 516 

Name of Company: Messrs. The Coal Purchase and 
Inspection Agency (Private) Ltd. 

« 

Nature of Business: Coal. 

Address of Registered Office: 6 Hastings* Stmt, 
Calcutta-1. \ 

Naffne and address of Liquidator: Shri P. B. Maitra, 
e/o. Messrs. K. Worah A: Co. Private Lid . 
Canning Street, Calcutta-1. 

Date of Appointment: 27th October 1961. 

By whom apjKunted. Members of the Compain 
General Meeting on the* 27th October 1961. 

(584—1' 


I s tor ed No. C207 


No. 24 of 1962 


(Ealnttta 



(&a2?tte 



188 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, 

JUNE 14, 

1962 






Coni of living index— Base s 

November, 

196). 


Ail*lndi«k 

price iuiitu* 

r ***■ — * 


Period. 

* 

Expenditure level (in Re.) 



Bane, 

1952-53. 

Cony® 

wit 



1—100 

101—200 


201—350 



Novoi 

19.11. 



, * 

Ail 

item*. 

Food'. ' All Food, 

item*. 

r All 
items. 

Fot>d. 




n> 


(3) (*) 

<5) 

(6) 

(7) 

(») 

( 

1967 

o’ »t;.uttry 

April 

July 

October 

05 * 4 

100*5 

106*0 

107*6 

94 *6 97*0 

98*0 98*9 

106*8 104*i 

107-0 105-7 

91 -9 

96 -5 

103 -0 

104 -0 

96 *2 

97 *0 

102*7 

104*0 

DO •» 

93*6 

100*7 

102*3 

107 3 

106 -6 

111*9 

108 -9 



1008 January 
April 
July 
0«*u)tH*r 


105 -0 

106 -0 
109 -4 
1 IS * 8 


101 -b 
103 -1 
107 ’6 
114*3 


103 -1 

104 -4 
107 *9 
1 1 1 *2 


08*1 

101 *8 

95-4 

106 *^ 

100 *2 

103*2 

97 -0 

107 *4 

104 -9 

106 *7 

102 *6 

114-7 

113 *3 

100-8 

108 *6 

116*2 


1059 January 
April 
July 

OctOtK>r 


104*5 97 * 2 

105 *8 100*9 

110*4 108*3 

114*6 ii «- o 


102 -9 

05 

105 -1 

99 

109 2 

106 

113 0 

113 


•5 102 *7 

•4 104 -6 

• 1 108*1 

4 ill -6 


94*0 112 *3 

98*2 JU1-9 

r * 4*o ne-8 

111-0 119*3 


I960 jHM.ary 
April 
July 

October 


110-4 

10b 

108-6 

105 

no -5 

108-0 

108-0 

105 

114 •* 

118-0 

112-8 

111 

114-4 

113-5 

113*2 

111 


-3 

107 *5 

103 -2 

118*8 

.*> 

107 *0 

103-3 

120 -5 

•6 

111-5 

109 -0 

124-7 

•8 

112-2 

110-4 

126 *3 


1961 January 
February 
March 
April 
May 
June 
July 
August 
September 
October 
November 
Deoember 


llO 7 

no o 

no *9 

112*2 

112*1 

118*7 

116*2 

117*9 

118*0 

119*9 

120*3 

117*0 


U . 5-0 
106*1 
106 1 
108*2 
107*8 
110*1 
114*1 
116*8 
116*4 
119*7 
120*4 
114*5 


108*7 
109*5 
109 *9 
111*4 
111*4 
112*7 
115*1 
116*6 
116*6 
118*2 
118*4 
115*3 


103 *2 

104 *3 
104 *6 
107*2 
107*0 
109*1 
113-2 
115*7 
115*2 
119*2 
118-4 
112*6 


108 *4 

109 *0 

109 5 
111*0 
111*0 
112*1 
114*2 
115*5 
115*4 
116*9 
116*9 
114*1 


10 * -8 125 * 

10S •* 126-7 

103 # 127-6 

1006 126-8 

100-6 126-3 

108-4 126- B 

113 - 2 12S-7 

114 - 6 127-4 

113-8 124-0 

116-7 124-4 

110 - 0 124-3 

111 - 1 122-9 


1962 January 
February 
March 
April 


114-4 

114*3 

116-6 

119-1 


110*1 

109*7 

112-0 

117-7 


112-8 

112-8 

114-1 

117-3 


108-0 

107-7 

110-1 

116-8 


112-1 

112-1 

118-3 

116-1 


107 - 0 123-3 

106-fi 124-3 

108 - 9 123 -6 

114-4 


Week ending 


6 - 6-02 

12 - 6-62 

19 - 6-02 

26 - 6-62 

2-0-02 


120-3 

119*6 

118*3 

119-9 

118*8 

118*0 

119 4 

118-0 

117*5 

119-0 

117*5 

117*1 

119-9 

118*8 

117*8 

• Eerie ** ee 

riee (Bane i 

J952 - 53 ) a 


117*5 

116-9 

115*8 

116*8 

116-7 

115*3 

116*0 

116-2 

114*6 

115*4 

116-8 

113*8 

116*6 

116-6 

115*0 


♦hx «- or » eepoudii»ii eooeerted eerier 


126-1 

120-0 

120-6 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


189 


Market Prices of Agricultural and Animal Husbandry Products (average quality)' 
in districts during the month of December, 1961 

£ p ¥* rfll 1 MIP1I V 910 


Commodity. 

Name of market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month's 

average* 

Average of 
December, 
1980. 

2nd 

9th 

16th 

23td 

30 th 





Rs. nP. 

Its. lit*. 

Its. ul*. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Ba. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Cereals* 












(fine) Patnai 

New 

Metiabat 

Md. 

12*25 

12 4 50 

1 2 *50 

12*26 

12-60 

12 40 

N.S. 

12.87 


Old 

Ditto 

, t 

14*00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14 00 

14 00 

N.S. 

(medium) Patnai 

1 New 

Ditto 

» 

12 '00 

12 '00 

12 • 00 

12*00 

12*00 

12.00 

N.S. 

12*37 

Tangra > 

New 

Kakdwip 


N.S 

N.S. 

13-00 

13? 00 

13*00 


N.S. 

13-00 

Patnaa 

Old 

Metiahat 


13*75 

13*27 

N S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13 51 

13 15 

N.S. 

Tangra Old 

Kakdwip 

4 » 

14*25 

14-26 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14-25 

14 OH 

N.S. 

(coarse) Sadamota 

Metiahat 

ft 

12*00 

12-00 

11 50 

11 *76 

11*60 

11*76 

12*12 

, 12 17 


New 











fine) Patnai 

New 

Ditto 

ft 

N.S. 

22 '60 

22-00 

21*75 

21-26 

21-87 

N.S. 

22-60 

Old 

Di tto 

tf 

24*00 

24-00 

24 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

24 00 

28 93 

26*00 

inMrliiim) Patnai 

New 

Ditto 

ft 

N.S. 

22 ‘00 

22*00 

20-75 

20*75 

21-37 

N.S. 

21-75 

Tanirra New 1 

Kakdwip 

,, 

N.S. 

N.S. 

21*60 

22*00 

21 50 

21 *67 

N.S. 

21 *12 

Patnai 

Old 

Metrahat. 


23 00 

23-00 

23*00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

23 *00 

23*00 

24-00 

_ Tancr.e 

New 

Kakdip 


24-60 

24*00 

22 50 

N.S. 

N.S. 

23-07 

23-87 

23*00 

coarse) Sadamota 1 

Metiahat 

•• 

N.S. 

20-00 

19-60 

19*00 

19-00 

19 37 

20 93 

20 26 


INOW 

Old 

Ditto 

•• 

21-00 

20-00 

20*00 

19-00 

N.S. 

20*00 

21 -00 

N.S. 

Pulses ( Whole)* 












r (small) 

• • 

Bongaon 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13-60 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13*50 

13-81 

13-65 

[small) 

. . 

Dit to 

f » 

16*00 

17-26 

15-75 

10*25 

18- 00 

18-05 

17 93 

14*86 

(small) 

•• 

• Ditto 

» 

13 00 

13-26 

13*00 

13'00 

N.S. 

13*00 

18-02 

14 65 

>tato and Vegetables . 











o (Brhar) 

, , 

Basirhat 

Md. 

25* 00 

18*00 

17 00 

12-00 

10*00 

10*40 

20 83 

11*50 

t Pumpkin 

, , 

Ditto 

»> 

10*00 

10-00 

10*00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

10 00 

10 *00 

8-60 



Deganga (P) . . 

M 

10*00 

10*00 

10*00 

N.S. 

N.S* 

10*00 

10*00 

7*00 

d (round) 

. . 

Baruipur (P) . . 

M 

15*50 

1500 

16.00 

16*00 

13*00 

16-10 

15 12 

8*00 



Basirhat (P) . . 

** 

14 00 

12*00 

12*00 

12-00 

12 00 

12-40 

11*76 

5*00 



Deganga (P) .. 

M 

12*00 

12*50 

14*00 

11*00 

12*08 

12-30 

9*75 

4 00 

hi (Long) 

. . 

Baruipur (P) , . 

»* 

15*50 

15*00 

16*00 

16*00 

13*00 

15 10 

16 12 

0 83 

»h 

, , 

Ditto (P) . . 

Pon 

1*25 

1*00 

1*60 

1 -50 

1*26 

1 30 

1-02 

3*80 



Basirhat (P) 

Md. 

3*00 

3*00 

3 00 

3-00 

3*00 

3*00 

N.S. 

2 *00 












Per pon 



Deganga (P) . . 

Pon 

1-76 

1 *50 

1 *50 

1.00 

1*60 

I 46 

1*60 

1*20 

11 Plantain 

. . 

Baruipur (P) . . 

*» 

1 76 

1*50 

I .75 

J *50 

1*60 

1*60 

2*00 

1*00 



Basirhat (P) . . 

*» 

1*75 

1.50 

1.75 

200 

1 *76 

1 *75 

1*88 

1*20 



Deganga (P) .. 

•» 

1 -50 

1 *50 

1 *50 

1 *00 

1*00 


2*00 

2*40 

8 Papaya 

, , 

Baruipur (F) . . 

Md. 

8-00 

8*00 

8*00 

8*00 

800 

8*00 

8 *87 

7*00 

80at 'i (Uohohhe) .. 

Deganga (P) . . 

»> 

16.00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

18*00 

16-50 

20.00 

12*25 

a 


Baruipur (P) . . 

*» 

10*00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


10 *76 

N.S. 

*0 

4 4 

Deganga (P) . . 

%* 

10*00 

18-00 

10-00 

10*00 

4*00 


N.S. 

17 40 


• • 

Baruipur (P) . . 

tt 

N.S. 

N.S. 

80 00 

80*00 

20-00 


N.S. 

N.S. 

















190 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA C.AZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


Wholesale prices 24-PARGANAS — contd. Decembc 


Commodity. 

Name of market 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated — 

Monthly 

Lobt 

month’n 

average. 

2nd 

9th 

16th 

23rd 

30 th 

average. 




Rs. nP. 


Rs. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Potato and Vegetables — 
conoid. 










Spinach 

Baruipur (P) . . 

Md. 

9-50 


8-00 

7-50 

7 -00 

8-20 

N.S. 


Deganga (P) . 

•» 

5.00 

8 -00 

7*00 

4*00 

4-00 

5.60 

N.S. 

Peas 

Deganga (P) . . 

tf 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

20-00 

20 -00 

N.S. 

Cauliflower 

Baruipur (P) . . 

100 

N.S. 

N.S. 

16-00 

16*00 

15-00 

15-33 

N.S. 


Basirhat (P) . . 

Md: 

14 -00 

12-00 

12*00 

11*00 

10-00 

11-80 

N.S. 


Deganga (P) . . 

100 

16*00 

25*00 

22-00 

18-00 

lfl.OO 

19-40 

N S. 

Cabbage 

Baruipur (P) . . 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

1000 

8-00 

9-00 

N.S. 


Basirhat (P) . . 

»» 

N.S. 

15-00 

15-00 

12-00 

12-00 

13-50 

N.S. 


Deganga (P) . . 

M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

7-50 

7-50 

N.S.. 

Cucumber 

Baruipur (P) . . 

100 

4-00 

4 00 

4 -00 

4-00 

N.S. 

4-00 

4-33 

Fruits (Fresh). 










Banana (kanthali) 

Baruipur (P) . . 

Pon 

1 -75 

1-75 

1-60 

1 -60 

1 -50 

1-60 

1- 81 

Banana (champa) 

Ditto 

»» 

1-50 

1-50 

1-00 

1-00 

1 00 

1-20 

1 • 6 6 

Coooanut (green) 

Aratala (P) 

100 

14-00 

14-00 

15-00 

15-00 

15 -00 

14*00 

13-12 


Deganga (P) . - 

f. 

900 

11-00 

10-00 

800 

9-00 

9-40 

11*62 

Fruits (Dry). 










Coooanut (with shell) Bengal 

Puijali (Budge 
Budge). 

100 

27-00 

27-00 

27-00 

27-00 

26-00 

26-80 

26-00 

Eggs. 










Hen egg (ungraded) 

Canning 

1,000 

136-00 

135-00 

136-00 

136-00 

135 00 

135-00 

136 60 

Duck egg (ungraded) 

Ditto 

M 

135-00 

136-00 

136-00 

135-00 

132-00 

134-40 

130-60 

Poultry. 










Fowl (live weight of f soor) 

Basirhat (P) . . 

Each 

3-50 

3*50 


3-60 

3 -50 

3-50 

3-50 

Buck (live weight of 1^ seers) 

Ditto (P) . . 

*> 

3-00 

3-00 

3-00 

3 • 00 

3 00 

3-00 

3-00 

Fish. 










Bobu 

Canning 

Md. 

115-00 

115-00 

115-00 

115-00 

115-00 

116-00 

116-75 

Katie 

Ditto 

»» 

116-00 

115-00 

116-00 

'115-00 

110-00 

114-00 

115-76 

Chingri (bagda) 

Ditto 

ft 

110*00 

1J0-00 

100-00 

118-00 

100 -00 

107-60 

100-00 

Veteki 

Ditto 

tt 

118-00 

118-00 

118-00 

118*00 

115-00 

117-40 

117-26 

Mullet . . 

Ditto 

if 

118*00 

118 *00 

118-00 

118-00 

115-00 

117*40 

N.S. 

Jiol (magur) . . 

Ditto 


140-00 

140*00 

140-00 

140-00 

140 -00 

140*00 

138-76 

Jiol (koi) 

Ditto 


116*00 

116-00 

118-00 

118*00 

110-00 

115*60 

118-00 




















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


191 


yy)iQ|«ttte prices 24-PAR Q AH A8 —concld. December 1961 


Commodity. 

1 

Name of market. 

| Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated- 

Monthly 

Last 
month’s 
average . 

Average of 
December, 
1960. 

2nd 

9th 

ltlth 

23rd 

30th j 

average. 




Rs. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 


Re. nF. 

Rs. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

MHoh Cam t. 











W (milk yield of one seer 

Baokohara (P) 

Each 

104-50 

101-00 

100-00 

101-50 

97 00 

100-80 

10512 

97-80 

a day)* 









1 


CatiU Foddsr, 

?tddy Straw Old 

Chandpara 

Kahan 

11-00 

12-00 

10-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

11 00 

15-50 

16-60 

Bongaon 

of 6 mds. 
Kahan 

32-00 

29-00 

38-00 

1 

32-00 

32-00 

32-60 

38 37 

24-00 

Do New 

Chandpara 

of 8 rads. 
Kahan 

N.S. 

i 

N.S. 

N.S. 

7-50 

7 -00 

7 25 

N.S. 



Bongaon 

of 6 mds. 
Kahan 

24-00 

23 -00 

27-00 

28-00 

28-00 

20-00 

N S. 

16-90 


of 8 mds. 









Fibres • 











Jute (garsat) 

Bongaon • . | 

Md. 

26-50 

27*25 

31*50 


30 00 

29- J5 

31-25 

40 60 


Deganga 

H 

31-00 

32-60 

31 50 

32-00 

32-00 

31-80 

31-50 

50-40 


Baduria . . 1 

» 

33-00 

33-50 

35*00 

34-00 



33-68 

52-12 

Sfeeta . . . . 

Bongaon 

H 

24-50 


24-50 




27-18 

46-14 


Deganga 

»» 

25-00 

27-00 

25-50 

25-50 


20 40 

27-12 

45-00 


Baduria 

*» 


20-25 

26-00 

25-50 

25-75 

25-90 

27-56 

44 25 

Miscellaneous . 




1 







>ur (rane) 

Baduria (P) .. 

Md. 


20-60 

1900 

19-00 

18-00 

19 80 

24 37 

18-38 

fattened Hice (ohira) . . , 

Amt ala 




32-00 

32 00 

32 00 

32-00 

32*00 

30-80 

Pwohed Rice (muri) 

Ditto 

ff 

1 38-00 


38-00 

38-00 

38 -00 

38-00 

38 00 

32*20 


(P)“- Indicates primary market prioes ae against the secondary market price which in the general cane. 
NJS.^No supply. 

The unit “Md." means the standard maund of 82*2/7 lbs. 

The unit “Quintal” means 2*68 mds. 




























192 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE. 14j 1962 


Wfeototalt prices HOWRAH RMcabcr 19 


Commodity. 

Name of market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month's 

average. 

Avs^ 

Decem 

196C 

2nd 

9 tli 

16th 

23rd 

30th 





Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 


Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Hr, 

t 

Cereals. 













Paddy (fine) Rupsal 


Bakshirhat 

Md 

13-50 

13-60 

13 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13 33 

13 75 

14 

Paddy (medium) Balaun 


Ditto 

ft 

12-50 

12-50 

12-60 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12-50 

12*62 

13 

Paddy (ooarae) Mota 


Ditto 

ft 

12 00 

12 00 

12 00 

N-S- 

N-S- 

12-00 

12 12 

12- 

Rioe (fine) Rupml 


K amkrishnapur 

Quintal 

65-66 

65-66 

65-66 

64-66 

63-65 

65*06 

65-66*) 













> 

Md. 26-i 

Rice (fine) Bhashamamk 


Ditto 

1* 

62-31 

62-31 

62-31 

61-31 

61-29 

61-91 

62-31J 



Rioe (fine) Rupsal 


Bakshirhat 

Md. 

24-00 

24 00 

24-00 

23-00 

23- 00 

23 60 

23-60 

1 2‘ 

■' 

Rice (medium) Kahua 


R amkrishnapur 

Quintal 

62-98 

62-98 

61-64 

60 -64 

80-30 

61-70 

61-721 


Rice (medium) Nagra 


Ditto 

» • 

60-97 

60-97 

60-97 

59-97 

68-96 

60-37 

60*97 / 


Rioe (medium) Balam 


Bakshirhat 

Md. 

23-00 

23-00 

23-00 

20-50 

20-50 

22-00 

22-37 

1 22* 

Rice (coarse) Bengal Mota 

Ranikriuhnapur 

Quintal 

56-95 

56 95 

56-95 

55-95 

53-60 

66-08 

66-05 1 
y 

20 

Rioe (coarse) Orissa 

Ditto 

9$ 

64-94 

54-94 

54-94 

53-94 

52-26 

64 00 

6-P94J 


superior 

Rice (coarse) Mota 


Bakshirhat 

Md. 

20-50 

20-50 

20-50 

N.S- 

N.S. 

20 50 

20-62 

21*. 

Pulses {whole). 













Mung (ordinary) 


HowTah Pulse 

Quintal 

46-65 

46-22 

45-55 

14-21 

44-21 

45 55 

44-22 

4a-I 



Market 











Musur (big) 


Ditto 

»» 

48-23 

51-58 

49-57 

49-57 

49-57 

49-70 

46-22 

4. 

•1 

Musur (small) 


Ditto 

•• 

40-19 

42-87 

42-87 

41-53 

41-53 

41-80 

37-01 

30 1 

Musur (khari, big) 


Ditto 

11 

60-78 

64-97 

64-30 

64-30 

64-30 

64-93 

62-62 

54-11 

Musur (khari, small) 


Ditto 

11 

60-28 

58*94 

57-60 

57-60 

57-60 

58*50 

56-26* 

5(1 9 

Urid (big) 


Ditto 

11 

44-30 

56-26 

63-58 

53-58 

63-58 

62-26 

60-62 

50-1 

Urid (small) 


Ditto 

11 

r> 

00 

Cl 

-ij* 

42-87 

40-19 

4019 

40-19 

41-47 

44-21 

43-41 

Gram (big) 


Ditto 

»i 

41-53 

40-19 

38-85 

38-85 

38-85 

39-65 

14-63 

•in m 

Gram (small) 


Ditto 

i» 

38-85 

36-84 

36-84 

36-84 

36-84 

37-24 

39*62 

41 

Matar (big) 


Ditto 

•1 

45-56 

44-21 

44-88 

44-21 

44-21 

44-61 

42*87 

47 

1 

Matar (small) 


Ditto 

•» 

40-19 

37-51 

37-51 

30-84 

38-85 

38*18 

38*85 

40 ! 

Arhar (big) 


Ditto 

if 

48-26 

46-22 

46-22 

45-55 

45-55 

46-36 

45-55 

42- 


Arhar (small) 


Ditto 

*1 

45-53 

44-21 

44-88 

44-21 

44-21 

44-61 

43-19 

37- 


Khesari (big) 


Ditto 

»* 

37-61 

33 49 

33 49 

33-49 

33-49 

34-32 

36 50 

30 


KheBari (small) 


Ditto 

t ? 

28 13 

26-13 

26-79 

26*79 

26*79 

26 05 

28*80 

24*1 

Pulses (spiff). 













Mung (ordinary) 


Howrah Pulse 

Quintal 

65-64 

61-62 


60-28 

60*28 

61-98 

64 07 




Market. 









4 "’ 


Musur (big) 


Ditto 

*» 

60-28 

57 -60 

57-60 

66-20 

56 26 

57-60 

56*78 



Musur (small) 


Ditto 

n 

58-94 

66-26 

56-26 

64-94 

64*92 

56-26 

56-26 

45 


Urid (big) 


Ditto 

11 

80-38 

76-00 

75-02 

72-34 

72-34 

76-00 

77-69 

62- 


Urid (small) 


Ditto 

11 

76-00 

69-66 

69-66 

66-98 

66-98 

69-66 

73-50 

59* 


Gram (big) 


Ditto 

11 

62-26 

52-00 

62-00 

51*91 

51*91 

52 01 

51-91 

54* 

*4 .1 


Gram (small) 


Ditto 

M 

SI -08 

60-91 

60-91 

60-24 

60*24 

50 78 

81 99 

















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


193 


gait prices HOWRAH — contd. December 1961 


OoranicHiity' 



Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month’s 

Average of 
December, 





1 





2nd 

9th 

10 th 

| 23rd 

30th 

average. 

1960. 





Rs. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

R». nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Rs. nl* 

Re. nP. 

„ (split) -conoid. 











jig) 

Howrah Pulse 

Quintal 


42-87 

12 20 

42-20 

42-20 

42 74 

43-64 

44-24 

Market. 

■ 








unall) 

! )ittn 

•• 

■■Alt 

41 -00 

40- GO 

41-86 

41-80 

41 44 

44-00 

44-28 

*ig) 

Ditto 


00-98 

04-30 

04 30 

00-28 

GO- 28 

03 23 

63 - 03 

56 93 

mall) 

Ditto 

99 

53 58 

50 91 

50-91 

50 91 

60-91 

57-45 

62-24 

45 35 

(big) 

Ditto 

.. 

43 54 

42-20 

42 20 

41-53 

41-53 

42-20 

41-86 

37 • 10 

(small) 

Ditto 

» 

41-53 

40-19 

40 19 

40- 19 

40- 19 

40 56 

39-52 

33 29 

Yeqetablfs. 

Kalibabu’s Bazar 

Md. 

40-00 

40-00 

10 00 

40-00 

40-00 

40-00 

41-26 

Md. 7-00 

tympkin 

Ditto 

100 

75-00 

70-00 

70 00 

70 00 

70-00 

71-00 

80 00 

65-00 

-- 

Di tto 

Quintal 

C5-00 

55-00 

55-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

55-00 

00- 26 

N.S. 


Ditto 

II 

55-00 

55-00 

55-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

55-00 

GO -25 

N.S. 

IT - ■ 

Ditto 

** 

20- 00 

18-00 

IG 00 

15-00 

15-00 

10*80 

22-50 

20-40 

3 



50-00 

40-00 

30 00 

30-00 

30-00 

36-00 

60-00 

Md. 11-20 

Fruit .1 [dry). 











it (dry) 

Sankrail Station 

100 

30-00 

30-00 

30-00 

30 -00 

30-00 

30 00 

29 26 

20-00 

Market. 










Fruit* ( fresh). 

• 










il (green) 

Domjur (P) 

100 

18-09 

18-00 

18-00 

18-00 

18-00 

18-00 

19-60 

12-80 

Fish. 

Howrah Bridge 

Quintal 

350 t»0 

325 00 

3001b* 

300 00 

300-00 

315 00 

344*00 

Md.JOG 00 


Market . 










Ditto 

» 

3 GO • 00 

325 00 

300-00 

300-00 

300- 00 

317 00 

344-00 

„ 110-00 


Ditto 

ft 

325 00 

300-00 

275 00 

275-00 

275-00 

290 00 

336-50 

„ 102 00 


I titto 

M 

300-00 

325-00 

325-00 

300-00 

300 00 

321-00 

344-00 

„ 110-00 

(Bugda) 

Ditto 

99 

342-00 

325-00 

275-00 

275-00 

275-00 

298-40 

344 00 

N.S. 


Jilt to 

99 

300-00 

300-00 

325-00 

300-00 

300-00 

300 00 

300 00 

„ 10000 

and milk products . 











OW) 

Band hagliat Klia- 

Md. 

32-00 

32-00 

32-00 

32-00 

32-00 

32 00 

32-00 

32-00 

nlUlo) 

tal. 










Ditto 

ft 

40 -0 l 

40-00 

40-00 

40-00 

40*00 

40 00 

40-00 

40-00 

Mtlrh rattle. 









• 


^ yld. 1 »eer a day) 
Qtitle fodder. 

Ulul»eria 

Each 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

100-00 

•traw 

Sibpur Biohnli 

Kalian 

50-00 

40-00 

4000 

40-00 

40-00 

40-00 

50-00 

60 00 

f ht seeds. 

Ghat. 

of 10 
rads. 









^yellow) 

Howrah Pulse 

Quintal 

109-85 

107-17 

107 17 

107 00 

107-00 

107-64 

108 51 

106-17 

ri <Kajh) 

Market. 









Ditto 

»» 

104-49 

100-41 

100-47 

101-81 

101-81 

101-40 

100-78 

101-54 

^ 





















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 



OH seed? — conoid. 
Mustard (RaiJ 


Linseed 
Castor 
Til (white) 
Tii (black.) 


Mustard 


Name of market. 

Unit. 

Howrah Pulse 
Market.. 

Dityo 

Quintal 

Ditto 

»» 

Ditto 

H 

Ditto 


Ditto 

t* 

Ditto 

»» 

Ralibabu’s 

Baser. 

Quintal 

Domjuf (P) 

Md. 

Howrah Bridge , 
Market. 

Bagnan Khalore 
Market. 

10.000 

tt 


HOWRAH* — concld. 


Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated — 
2nd 9th 16th 23rd 30th 


Dtcambir 


Monthly math’s 
average. avorage 


9 


Ra. nP. Re. nP. Re. nP. 


99 13 101 94 103 48 

64-30 65 64 62-96 

1 87-41 80-90 93-77 

9 86 39 80-12 83-72 

64-30 63 63 00 95 


H|.|9 107-17 110-39 112-53 n 

100-47 101*81 101-54 95-16 i( 


Quintal 268-00 20S-00 208-00 I 267 00 Md, 















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


195 


f 


— HOOOHLY DMMnbir 1961 


Commodity. 

Name of market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeka ended Saturday, « 

lated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 
mont h ’a 
average. 

Average of 
December, 
1960. 

2nd 

9th 

16 th 

23rd 

30th 




Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Ra. nP 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Us. nP. 

Cereals. 











fry (fine) Dudkmlraa . . 

Chanipedanga 

Md. 

13 75 

13-76 

13 75 

13 00 

12*50 

13 35 

13 12 

15-00 

„ 8 *““‘ 

Bali Dewanganj 

», 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14-25 

N.S. 

M •• 

Kali pore 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13-60 

ady (medium) Nagrae*l. 

Champed anga 

M 

13-25 

13-25 

13-25 

12-60 

12-00 

12 85 

12 62 

14-60 

„ Jhingaeal 

Bali 1 >asvftngan j 

99 

18-12 

18-00 

12-75 

12 - 62 

12-62 

12-82 

13-25 

12 07 

1) M 

Kali pone 

>. 

13-00 

13-00 

12-50 

12-60 

12-60 

12-70 

13-03 

13-50 

„ Duflkalma 

Bali Dewanganj 

» ■ 

13-12 

13-00 

12-76 

12-62 

12-02 

12 -82 

13-31 

12-81 


Kali pope 

.. 

1300 

13-00 

12-50 

12-60 

12-50 

12 -70 

13-19 

12-00 

ddy (coarse) Gardhan 

Ghampfvdanga 

99 

12-87 

12-87 

12-87 

12-00 

11-50 

12 42 

12-25 

N.S. 

„ Oarh 

Bali Dewanganj 

»» 

12-50 

12-60 

12 26 

12-25 

12*25 

12-30 

12*50 

12-21 

•* »» 

Kalipofe 

9 • 

11-00 

11-00 

11-50 

11-25 

11-25 

11 20 

12-50 

12-12 

m (fine) Dudkalma 

Ghampadanga 

.. 

24-00 

24 • 00 

24 -00 

24-00 

23-50 

23 -no 

23 60 

26-00 

„ Sitaaal 

Bali Dewanganj 

M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

If 99 

Kalipore 

** 

23-60 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

23-60 

N.S. 

N.S. 

ce (medium) Nagraeal 

Champadanga 

*• 

23 00 

23-00 

23-00 

23-00 

22-50 

22 no 

22-50 

22-00 

ft Jhingasal 

Bali Dewanganj 
• 


22-75 

N.S. 

22-00 

21-50 

21-50 

21 94 

22-94 

23-60 

»> 99 

Kalipofe 

.. 

22-50 

N.S. 

21-75 

21-50 

21-50 

21-81 

22-02 

21 76 

,t , Dudkalma 

Bali Dewanganj 

99 

22-75 

22-25 

22-00 

21-50 

21-50 

22-00 

22-94 

24-00 

»» 

Kalipore 

.. 

22-50, 

22-00 

21-75 

21-50 

21-50 

21 -85 

22-02 

19 06 

100 («Ottr«o) Garshal 

Champpdanga 

M 

22-00 

22 -00 

22 00 

22-00 

21-50 

21 90 

21-33 

23 00 

»» Garh 

Bali Dewanganj 

•» 

21 25 

21-00 ! 

2100 

20-75 

20-75 1 

20 95 

21-44 

22-17 

»* •» 

Kalipove 

It 

21-00 

2100 I 

20-75 

20-50 

20-50 

20-75 

21-12 

21*75 

Pulse*, (whole). 











mr (big) 

Sheoraphuli 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

| N.S. 

| 20-00 

^ (small) 

Ditto 


NS. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

18 20 

^ lttr (khari^ big) . . 

i 

Ditto 

t. 

24*50 

24-50 

20-00 

26-00 

26-00 

25-40 

23 76 

23-60 

(kiwi, Hmali) 

Ditto 


22-50 

22-50 

24*00 

| 24-00 

24-00 

23-40 

21-75 

22-00 

ll *“ (khuri, big) 

Mallirk) Kanoin 

,, 

23 -50 

23*50 

23-75 

24-50 

24-50 

23 15 

23 37 

22 65 

""“(kiwi, small) 

XJ lib. 

Ditto 

.. 

21 50 

21-50 

21-75 

22-00 

22-00 

21 75 

21 37 

20 *90 

«#(big) 

Sheoraphuli 

,, 

18 00 

18*00 

18 -00 

18 00 

18-00 

18 00 

li-00 

18*60 

“"(•wall) 

Ditto 

99 

16* 00 

16*00 

16 -00 

16 00 

16*00 

16 00 

16-00 

17 60 

Pvleet [split). 











"nr (big) 

Sheoraphuli 

Md. 

22 50 

22 -50 

25-00 

25 00 

N.S. 

23 75 

21 75 

22 40 

[*“ (small) 

bi,. v 

Ditto 

.1 

22 00 

22 -00 

23 -00 

23-00 

N.S. 

22 50 

20-87 

19 60 

H h| «) 

y j , 

Ditto 


30 00 

30 -00 

30 00 

30-00 

30- 00 

30 00 

30 00 

23*80 

* («&all) 

Ditto 

■ 

28 00 

28 -00 

28-00 

28-00 

28-00 

28 00 

28 00 

22 *00 












1 % 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


Wholesale prices HOOGHLY — could. • neremhoi i M 




r 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month's 

average. 

Avar*** q 
Deeembfti 
I960. 

Commodity. 

Name of market. 


2nd 

9th 

)6tb 

23rd 

30th 




Up. nl*. 

Its. nl*. 

Kb. nP. 

Rk. nP. 

Ka. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

r.f. 

Pulses (split ) —conoid. 











Gram (big) . % 

Shooraphiili 

Md. 

20 00 

20 On 

20 00 

20 00 

20 00 

20-00 

20 00 

20 40 

Gram (nniall) 

Ditto 

r 

19 00 

19-00 

19 00 

19-00 

19-00 

19 00 

19*00 

18 40 

Gram (big) 

Mai lick Kas.ua 
Hut. 

ft 

22 -50 

22 00 

22-26 

22 00 

22-00 

22-16 

22 50 

20 60 

Gram (small) 

Ditto . . 

M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Urid i biff) . , 

Ditto 

»» 

28-50 

2S-00 

28-26 

28-00 

28-00 

28 16 

28-60 

24-00 

Urid (»mall) 

Ditto 

ft 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

NJ3. 

N.8. 

Arliar(big) 

Kheoraphuli 

9t 

25 00 

25-00 

25 00 

25 -00 

25-00 

26 00 

26 00 

23 m 

Arhar (araall) 

Ditto 

ft 

22-60 

22-60 

23 00 

23 -00 

23-00 

22 80 

22 60 

22-00 

Kliosari ( h i | ) 

Ditto 

ft 

18-00 

18-00 

18-00 

18-00 

18-00 

18 00 

1800 


Khosari (small) 

Ditto 

»» 

16 00 

1 6 -00 

10 00 

16 00 

16 00 

16 00 

16-00 

16-' 

Khesari (big) 

Mallick Kasom 
Hat. 

»» 

17 60 

17-50 

17 75 

17-26 

17-25 

17-45 

17-12 

is*: 

Kheean (small) 

Ditto 

ft 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

n!s. 

N.8 

Spins. 











Onion (Hombtvy) 

Slmoraphuli . . 

Md. 

1500 

16*00 

14-00 

1300 

11-00 

11 60 

18*62 

13 d 

Onion (Pat nai ) 

Ditto 


1500 

16-00 

14-00 

13-00 

11-00 

11 60 

13 87 

11-11 

Onion (I)ehhi) 

Potato and 1 ' tyeiublett. 

Ditto 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

NA 

i N.S. 

N.S 

Potato (Nainital) 

Sheoraphuh 

Mil. 

27-00 

19-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

23 00 

22 87 

12-Oi 


Chumpadauga 


27 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

27 00 

22 62 

12-7( 

Potato (Rangoon) 

Shooraplmb . . 

#9 

26-00 

N.S. 

16-00 

15 00 

11-00 

17-00 

27-00 

12 OC 


Champadanga 


25-75 

20-00 

15-00 

14-75 

10-60 

17-20 

26-62 

12 7fl 

Sweet Potato 

Sheoraphuli . . 

ft 

10 00 

10-00 

10-00 

10-00 

9-0 

9-so 

1000 

9-40 


Cham pad anga 


9 00 

9-00 

9-00 

9-00 

8-00 

8-80 

9-00 

8*60 

Brinjal (round) 

Sbeor&phuli . . 

M 

15-00 

18-00 

18-00 

15-00 

15-00 

16 20 

14-60 

7-W 

Brinjal (kuli) 

Ditto 

.. 

14 00 

17 00 

17 00 

14-00 

14-00 

16 20 

12 25 

6 20 

Bitter gourd ( Karela) 

Ditto 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Bitter gourd (Uchho) 

Ditto 

M 

18-00 

20-00 

20-00 

20-00 

20-00 

19-60 

27-00 

N.S. 

Vindi • 

Ditto 

ff 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. ( 

Patal 

Ditto 

ft 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

36-00 

N.8- 

Sweet pumkin 

Ditto 

100 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

66-66 

64-2 

Fruits. 











Banana (Champa) 

Sheoraphuli . . 

1} pon 

2 00 

2 00 

1-75 

1-50 

1-50 

1 75 

1 94 

2-6 

Banana (Kathali) 

Ditto 

L 

ff 

2 26 

2-25 

2 00 

2 00 

200 

2 10 

2-37 

3-0 

















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA 'GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


197 


MlHlIl prtets H OOQHLY—concld . OtcwiMr 1981 


Commodity. 

Name of market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated 

Monthly 

Last 

month's 

average. 

Average of 

December, 

1960. 

2nd 

9 th 

10th 

23rd 

30th 

average. 




Re. nP. 

Re. nr. 

Re. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rs. oP. 

Re. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Re. nP. 

ilk and Milk Products. 











i (Cow) 

Seram pore 

Md. 

40 *00 

40 ^0 

40 00 

40 00 

■ 

40 00 

40 *00 

35*00 

i (Buffalo) 

Ditto 

»» 

45 00 

45-00 

45 00 

46 00 


45-00 

46 00 

40 *00 


Chinsurah 

99 

36 00 

36 00 

36 00 

36 00 


SO 00 

SO 00 

36*00 

Wlft (skimmed) 

Seranipore 

.. 

55 00 

60*00 

54*00 

51-00 

54*00 

54*80 

57*75 

55*80 

Eggs. 











I egg (ungraded) 

Pandua Hat . . 

100 

1600 

16*00 

17*00 

17*00 

17-00 

16 60 

16 44 

18 30 

|k egg 

Ditto 

M 

1600 

17 00 

16*50 

17*00 

17-00 

16 70 

16 62 

16*70 

Poultry. 











|l (live weight 1 er .) . . 

Pandua Hat . . 

Karh 

4-00 

3*00 

4 00 

4*50 

4-60 

4 00 

4*00 

8 00 

i (live weight 2 are.) . . 

Ditto • . 

«• 

4-75 

400 

4*50 

4*00 

4-00 

4-26 

4 44 

4 50 

MiLh Cattle.- 











(milk yld. } er. a day) 

Mayapore 

Ka<-h 

54 00 

55*00 

52*00 

54*00 

54-00 

53*80 

51 75 

44-00 

(milk yl<l. 1 er. a day) 

Ditto 


05 00 

95 00 

98*00 

98*00 

98-00 

96 80 

93 76 

92-00 

(milk yld. 1} er. a day) 

Ditto 


140 00 

145*00 

140*00 

140-00 

140*00 

141 00 

141 25 

116*00 

(rmlk yld. 1 er. a day) 

Pandua Hat . . 

»• 

106 00 

100*00 

110*00 

120 00 

120*00 

111 00 

112*50 

73 00 

•Sheep and Goat. 











1 (live weight 7 era.) . . 

PjHidua Hat . . 

Each 

23 00 

24-00 

26-00 

26-00 

26*00 

24 40 

23 25 

19 12 

|l (live weight 10 ara.) 

Oit. 

Mayapote 

9 9 

25*00 

25*00 

28 00 

28 00 

28*00 

26 80 

23 75 

21 80 

lr<J 

Oil Cakes. 

Sheoraphuli . . 

Md. 

100* 00 

100*00 

100 00 

96 00 

90-00 

98 40 

94*00 

95 20 

ird 

Sheoraphuli . . 

Md. 

14 00 

14*00 

14 00 

14 00 

14*00 

14 00 

13 75 

13*00 

r 

Ditto . . 

•» 

12*75 

12*76 

12*75 

12 75 

12*75 

12 75 

12 44 

12*00 

ndriut 

Ditto 


14 75 

14*75 

14-75 

14 75 

14-75 

14*75 

14 56 

14*30 

ird 

Maltfck Kaaom 
Hat. 

” 

14 00 

it 

Ox 

O 

13 00 

12 50 

12*50 

12*90 

14 44 

12*20 

«d 

Ditto 

•» 

16*50 

17 00 

10 76 

16 00 

16*00 

16*45 

16*50 

14 05 

admit 

Ditto 

M 

14 50 

14-26 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14 37 

14*56 

13*25 

r nttle Fodder . 











"traw 

Fibres. 

Mall ink Kaprni 
Hat, 

Kaban of 
10 mdp. 

30*00 

80-00 

28 *00 

32 00 

32*00 

30-40 

31*50 

• 

60*20 

(Old) 

36*20 

(New) 

•* 

Sheoraphuli . . 

Md. 

31*00 

30*50 

38*50 

33 00 

34*00 

35 20 

34 62 

51 00 


Champadanga 


29 00 

35*00 

32 50 

30 50 

35*00 

32*40 

83 25 

50*30, 

.. 

Sheoraphuli . . 


N.S. 

32*00 

29*50 

28*00 

30*00 

29-37 

29*75 

46 20 


( -hampadanga 

*. 

N.S. 

30 00 

26*50 

26*00 

30*00 

28*12 

29*00 

44-80 

“»np 

Sheoraphuli 

•* 

N.S. 

40*00 

40*00 

38*00 

38 00 

89*00 

89-50 

4000 

Miscellaneous. 










i 


Sheoraphuli • . 

Md. 

22*00 

22-00 

21-00 

21*00 

21-00 

21*40 

28-25 

| 21*60 

' 














198 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA. GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1942 


•Mbptai NHtt 'MM. 


Commodity. 

mi 

B 

GeMeet mu meeki ended Saturday, dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month’-* 

average. 

Hi 


2nd 1 

9tti 

16*1 

23rd 

30th 





Re.aP. 

Be.nPj 

Me. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Its. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Cereals . 











Paddy (fine) (Ainan| .. 

Plaaeey (P) 

. . 

Md. 

n a. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Paddy (medium) 

Ditto 


M 

12*60 

12-25 

12-50 

12 -25 

12-00 

12-30 

12 37 

Paddy (ooaree) M 

Ditto 

. . 

» 

11*60 

12-00 

11-60 

11 -60 

11 25 

11-65 

11 87 

Rice (fine) (Jhingaeal) 

Krlfmagar 

» • 

00 

j 

24 *60 

24-60 

: 

24 36 

24 25 

24 00 

24 30 

24-37 


Ranaghat 

, . 

M 

24 00 

24-00 

24 -00 

25 00 

24 50 

24 30 

24 50 

Rice (medium) (Dudludma) 

Krishnagar 

• . 

•• 

22-60 

22-60 

22 00 

22-00 

22-00 

22 20 

22-01 


Kanagbat 

. . 

„ 

23-00 

22-75 

22-76 

22-75 

22 50 

22 76 

23-00 

Rice (coaree) Jali 

Ki istinagar 

. . 

00 

19 00 

1900 

18-75 

18 75 

1900 

L8 90 

19 50 


Kanagbat 

•• 

00 

21 §0 

20-60 

19-60 

20-60 

N.S. 

20-25 

21-75 

Pulses (adtafe). 1 











Mamir (Small) 

Plaeeoy 


Md* 

14 50 

14 60 

14-60 

14 00 

14 00 

14 30 

• 14-25 


Kanagbat 


** 

14 -60 

u-oo 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13-75 

14 -00 

Vtid 

Plassey 


M 

16-00 

14-60 

16 00 

15 00 

15 00 

15-10 

19 00 


Kanagbat 


•* 

17-00 

17-00 

17-60 

17 75 

18 00 

17-45 

19-02 

Qkam „ 

Plaeopy 


00 

U-00 

14-00 

14 00 

14 00 

14-00 

14 00 

14 02 


Kanagbat 


00 

14-76 

14 00 

14 25 

14 25 

14 50 

14 35 

14 12 

Hater 

Plaaaay 


" ' 

12*00 

12 00 

12 00 

12-00 

12-00 

* 12 00 

12-87 


Sant(pur 


#» ] 

N.S. i 

M.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Arhar M 

Plan any 



15 60 

15-60 

15-50 

15-60 

15 50 

16 -50 

15-37 


Kanagbat 


• • < 

N.H. i 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Kheaari ... 

Plaseey 


00 

10 60 

10 50 

10-00 

10 00 

1000 

10 20 

10 37 


Kanagbat 

. . i 

0, 1 

M.8. < 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Vegetables, 











Green Papaya (Local) 

Chakdah 


Md. 

5*76 

6-00 

7-00 

7-00 

N.S. 

6-44 

6 -or* 

Oikesi*. 











Lineeed (Deahi) 

Plaeeey 


Md. 

28-00 

28-00 

28 00 

28-00 

28-00 

28 00 

25-62 

Mustard (bold o liter than 

Ditto 



31-00 

61-00 

24 00 

84 00 

34-00 

32-80 

29-62 

pettow) 

Ranaghat 

•• 

•• 

34 00 

82-00 

34 00 

m 

33 00 

33 20 

32-75 

Fibre, 











Jute (garaat) 

Plaaeey 


Md. 

28-00 

■ 

30-50 

30-50 

30-50 

23-70 

30-37 


Chakdah 


00 

28-00 

1 

28-00 

29-00 

28-60 

28-70 

29-62 


Ranaghat 

. . 

00 

28-00 

mm 

28-00 

28-00 

28*50 

28-50 

29-00 


o> 











SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14 , 1962 


199 


MM* f*» MWSNWABAO FnimThr fMf 


<Jomn*o<f*%y. 


tr.»u 

Collection weeka ended Saturday, dated — 

n Monthly 

IiHHt 

month 'a 
average. 

Average of 




2nd 

9th 

l«th 

23rd 

30th 

average. 

Deo ember, 
1960. 





Ha. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

lie. bP. 

Ha. nP. 

Ka. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Cereal*. 












Idy (fin*) (Amim) . . 

Lalbagh 

. * 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Jiagtmj 

• • 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.P. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Dhulian 

.. 

»* 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Idv (medium) „ 

Lalbagh 

• • 

«» 

13 SO 

13- SO 

13 50 

12 -SO 

12-50 

13- 10 

13-75 

12.00 


Jiaganj 

*• 


18 SO 

13-50 

13-00 

12-50 

12-50 

11-00 

18-87 

11.80 


Dhulian 


t» 

N.S 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

|dy (coarse) ,» 

Lai bag h 


t# 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


•Tiag.nj 

•* 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Dhulian 

. . 

•I 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

e (fine) (Bhaaamanik) 

Berhampur 

• • 

»t 

23 25 

23-00 

23 00 

23-00 

28-00 

23-05 

25-25 

21-66 


Laibach 


tf 

24 SO 

24-50 

25 00 

24 00 

25-00 

24 60 

34-87 

24*40 


Kandi 

.. 


23 00 

22 • 50 

23 (10 

23-60 

23-00 

23 00 

22-76 

23*16 

p (medium) (Ranikrftna) 

Berhampore 

•• 

*• 

22* 245 

22-00 

22 00 

22 00 

22 00 

22-06 

22-26 

20-95 


Lalbagh 

•• 

.. 

23*00 

23 00 

23 00 

23-00 

23 00 

23 00 

23 00 

20*80 


Kandi 


*» 

2150 

21 50 

22 • SO 

20 50 

22-00 

21 90 

21-75 

20-75 

e (coatee) (Nona) . . 

Berhampore 

•• . 

ft 

20 00 

19-50 

19 50 

10-60 

19-00 

19 50 

20 00 

19-50 


Lalbagh 

•* 

It 

20-00 

20 00 

19-50 

20-00 

20 00 

19 90 

20 25 

11*00 

6 

Kandi 

1 


M 

20-50 

20-50 

20-50 

20-00 

20 00 

2# 30 

20 62 

20-35 

eat (Tuity) 

Jiaganj 

. . 

• • 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

(Gangajali) 

Dhulian 


M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

NS. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

% Deehi 

Jiaganj 


• t 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Dhulian 


M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

(whole). 












** (Small) 

Beldangm 


Md. 

13-50 

12-50 

13-50 

13-50 

13 50 

13-50 

11-50 

N.S. 


Jiaganj 


.. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 1 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Dhulian 


•» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

" » 

Beldanga 



N.S. 

N,S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Jiaganj 

• • 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

N.B. 

N»8. 

N.S. 


Dhulian 


H 

N.S. 

N.S- 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

20*00 

N.S. 

HD 

Beldanga 


** 

14-50 

14-50 

14-50 

14-50 

14*50 

14-50 

15*75 

N.8. 


Jiaganj 


*♦ 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

L 

Dhulian 

* - 

» » 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

N.8 

w 

»* 

Beldanga 

• • 

*» 

12-50 

12-50 

12.50 

12-50 

12-50 

13*50 

11*00 

NJ9. 


Jiaganj 


f » 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

18*16 

N.8. 


Dhulian 

•• 

»» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8, 

N.S. 













500 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA PAZETTE, IUNE 14, 1962 


Wholesale prists MURSHIDABAD— condd. Se p tem ber \ 


Commodity. 

Name of market. 

Unit. 

| Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated — 

Monthly 

! Last 

A\yr^ 

2nd 

9th 

10th 

23rd 

80th 

average. 

j montn s 
f average. 

Deonil 




Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Ra. i 

Pulses (whole) —conoid. 











Arhar (small) 

Beldanga 

Md. 

14-50 

14*50 

14 *50 

14-60 

14-60 

14-60 

13-37 

XI 


Jiaganj 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 



Dhulian 

pt 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S, 

N.S. 

N.S 

Khesarl (small) 

Beldanga 

*• 

11*50 

11-50 

11*50 

11*50 

11*60 

11*50 

10 37 

x*n 


Jiaganj 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

n,«. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

11-60 

u 


Dhulian 

ft 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

X& 

& pices. 











Onion (deshi -small) 

Lalgola 

Md. 

14 00 

14 00 

14 00 

14 00 

16-00 

14 20 

13 25 

1 1-: 

Turmeric DohIh 

Potato & Vegetables. 

Dhulian 

pp 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

47 50 

34-1 

Potato (deshi-red) 

Kandi 

Md. 

N.S. 

18-00 

13-50 

11*00 

11-00 

13-37 

N.S. 

1M 

Milch Cattle. 











Cow (Deshi) (milk yielding 

2 srs. a day). 

Beldanga 

Each 

170 00 

170-00 

170*00 

170 00 

170-00 

170-00 

172 50 

17i 

Poultry. 











Fowl (live wt. 14ch.) 

Lalgola (F) . . 

Each 

2-37 

2 37 

2 37 

2-37 

2 50 

‘2 40 

2 37 

1 

(Deslu) 






















Hen egg (ungraded) 

Lalgola 

1,000 

137-00 

137-00 

140*00 

140 00 

145 00 

139-80 

137 75 

125 

Sheep and Goat. 











Sheep (live wt. 1 tiara. )(deBhi) 

Beldanga 

Each 

30-00 

30*00 

30-00 

30 00 

30 00 

30-00 

31-00 

30 

Goat (live wt. 12 srs.) „ 

Beldanga 

i pp 

20-00 

20 • 00 

20 • 00 

20-00 

26*00 

26*00 

27-00 

25 

Oilseeds. 











Linseed (deshi) 

Jiaganj 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Ni 

Mustard (bold other than 
yellow) (deshi) 

Jiaganj 

»* 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S* 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Ni 

Ni 

Dhulian 

p* 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Hide and Skin. 











Cow (wet and salted )(deolii) 

Lalgola 

Fieoe 

16-00 

10-00 

10-00 

10-00 

1600 

16*00 

16 00 | 

i 

17 

Goat Do. .» . • 

Fibre . 

Lalgola 

»» 

3-00 

3 00 

3-00 

3 00 

3*00 

3-00 

3-00 | 

4*1 

Jute (garsat) (deshi ) 

CossimbaEar . . 

Md. 

29-00 

29 00 

29*50 

29*50 

20*00 

29*20 

30-87 : 

4* 


Jiaganj 

M 

20*00 

26*00 

25*00 

20*00 

26-00 

25*80 

25*75 i 

45) 

M isceUansous. 

Lalgola 

** 

26*00 

20*00 

20*00 

25*00 

25*00 

26*60 I 
l 

26*00 1 

i 

| 

49 

Gtur (oane) (deshi) 

Kandi 

Md. 

N.S. 

16*50 

16*60 

16*75 

17*50 

16*81 

N.S. j 

1« 







SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


201 


0m wjrdwak m wu r mi 


Commodity. 

Name of market . 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Laet 

mouth's 

average. 

Average of 
December 
I960. 

2nd 

Oth 

10th 

23rd 

aoth 




Ka. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Kh. nP. 

Ka. nP. 

Kh. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Cereals* 











(medium) Kalin* . . 

Burdwan (P) 

Md. 

14*25 

14-00 

13-75 

13-50 

13-50 

13 80 

13-87 

14 40 


Nadanghat (P) 

»* 

14*00 

14. 19 

14-19 

14 25 

14-12 

14 25 

13*78 

14*40 


Guahkarn (P) 

»» 

14*00 

13 75 

13 5C 

13-25 

13-25 

13-56 

13*62 

14 16 

n*») .Jhingasal 

Kalna 

H 

24 00 

21-00 

24 • 00 

24 00 

24*00 

24-00 

24*06 

24-80 

icdiuxu) Kalina 

KaJna 

»» 

23 50 

23 50 

23 50 

28*50 

23-50 

23-50 

28 50 

24 30 


Burdwan 

• 1 

23 25 

23 25 

23 00 

23*00 

22-75 

23*05 

23 50 

24 80 


Guslikura 

II 

23*00 

23-00 

22-75 

22-75 

22-50 

22-80 

28 26 

24-06 

<mrnc) D/huaked . . 

Kalna 

II 

22 50 

22-50 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

22-50 

22 00 

20-76 

rubes (whole). 











oaimary) 

Burdwan 

Md. 

25*00 

25-00 

25*00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

25*00 

25 00 

21*25 

big) 

Aaananl 

ii 

22*00 

22-00 

21*50 

21*50 

21*50 

21.70 

22-00 

21*00 

mall) • • 

Kaniganj 

•i 

2100 

2100 

17*00 

18*50 

18*25 

19*15 

21-00 

18-00 

(big) 

Kalna 

•i 

1000 

19-00 

19*00 

19*00 

1800 

18*30 

19-62 

N.S. 


Memari 

■1 

16-50 

N.8. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

19-75 

19 76 


Kaniganj 

I* 

17*75 

17-00 

17*00 

17-50 

17-50 

17-35 

16-62 

18*60 

(onmll) 

K Tina 

»i 

16-00 

16-00 

16-00 

16-50 

16-00 

1610 

16-44 

N.S. 

(b'g) 

Burdwan 

ii 

18-00 

17-00 

17.50 

17-50 

17-50 

17-60 

18 00 

N.S. 

(umall) 

Kaniganj 

ii 

N.S. 

15-50 

14 00 

15-00 

15-00 

1487 

12-00 

15-00 

(big) 

Burdwan 

it 

16-00 

16*50 

16-60 

16-50 

16-60 

16-40 

16-00 

N.S. 

in (lug) 

Kaniganj 


12-00 

11-00 

11-00 

12*00 

12- 00 

11-60 

11-75 

N.S. 

Pubes (split). 











(ordinary) 

Meman 

Md. 

28 00 

26-50 

27 00 

26*50 

26 00 

26*80 

27-19 

26-60 

' H) 

Momari 

1 

! 23-50 

24-00 

22*00 

22-00 

22 00 

22*70 

22-40 

22-60 


Aaansol 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

22-00 

22*00 

N.S. 

22-30 


Kaniganj 

1 

21*25 

24-00 

22*50 

22*50 

22-50 

22*55 

22*50 

21*30 

f (small) 

Burdwan 

II 

21*00 

22-00 

21 *00 

20 *00 

20-00 

20*80 

20 69 

21*50 


Memari 

II 

22 00 

21-00 

21 *00 

21-00 

21-00 

21 20 

21 00 

19*00 

big) 

Memari 

II 

20*00 

28-00 

28*00 

28 *00 

20-00 

27*80 

28*37 

26*00 

Ismail) 

Burdwan 

II 

27-00 

25-50 

25*00 

25*00 

25 00 

25*50 

27*00 

24 00 

(big) 

Momari 

i. 

22 00 

23 00 

22*00 

22-00 

22-00 

22-20 

22*00 

22-60 


Asaniol 

II 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

19*00 

N.S. 

19-00 

18*26 

N.S. 

[•mail) 

Burdwan 

,1 

21-50 

19*50 

1800 

18-00 

18-00 

19*00 

20*60 

21-00 

(small) 

Aaansol 

II 

22-00 

22-00 

21-50 

22-00 

22-00 

21 90 

10-26 

20-00 

* (biR) 

Burdwan 

II 

18-00 

17-00 

18-00 

17*50 

18-00 

17-70 

19 12 

18.00 

( s m«H) 

1 Kaniganj 

*» 

16-00 

1300 

12-00 

14-00 

14-00 

13-80 

14*50 

N.S. 












202 


SUPPLEMENT T<0 TftEMULOtTTTA GAZETTE,' JUNE 14, !4«2 


wmmtopm * burdwah^mi. •mm** 


Commodity. 

Name of market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated — 


Last 


2nd 

9th 

16th 

23rd 

30th 


average. 




Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. aP. 

Rs. nP. 

Ha 

Spice*. 











Onion (deshi) • • 

Kata* 

Md. 

18 •<) 

18-00 

17-00 

15*00 

12- SO 

10-20 

17*87 

] 


Burdwan 

ft 

17-00 

16-00 

15-00 

12*50 

12-60 

14 60 

16*25 

J 

Chillies (dry, patnai) • . 

Katwa 

M 

101-50 

11000 

11000 

102*00 

104 50 

105-60 

97-60 

1C 


Asansol 

II 

104-50 

110-00 

105-00 

98*00 

98 00 

103 10 

97-50 

11 


Burdwan 

•• 

98-00 

100-00 

98-00 

105*00 

105*00 

101*20 

98*00 

10 

Potato and vegetable *. 











Potato (Naihital) •• 

Asansol 

Md. 

24 50 

24-00 

20-50 

15*50 

11*50 

19 20 

24*87 

1 

„ (Rangoon) 

Burdwan 

ff 

28- 00 

17.00 

14.12 

13.50 

12.00 

16.92 

29.75 

> 

Sweet potato 

Asansol 

H 

12-00 

12*00 

11-50 

10-00 

10 00 

11*10 

9.59 

] 


Daluihazar 

ii 

8 -00 

8.00 

7.00 

7.00 

7*00 

7-40 

* 8.50 

* 1 

Banjul 

Katwa 

ii 

7-50 

7.50 

7.50 

7.50 

7.50 

7.50 

9 12 



Asansol 

» 

19*00 

20-00 

19-00 

12*00 

12-00 

16-40 

22-25 



Doluibasar 

« 

15-00 

14-00 

12-50 

9.00 

9*00 

1190 

13-37 


Bitter Gourd 

1 Asansol 

M 

24-50 

24-00 

25-00 

15 00 

15 00 

2*1- 70 

21 75 

> 

Chillies* (gr eep) 

Katwa 

M 

35*00 

36-50 

36*50 

36*60 

36-60 

36-20 

36-62 

3 


Asansol 

99 

35 00 

38*00 

36*00 

34-00 

32 00 

• 35*00 

33-00 

3 


Doluibasar 

99 

N.S. 

i 

35-00 

35-00 

35-00 

36.00 

35-00 

38.00 

3 

Green Plantain • • 

Asansol 

100 

5-00 

5 00 

5-00 

5-00 

5 00 

5-00 

* 

5-12 

; 


Doluibaaar 

99 

300 

3-00 

3 00 

3*00 

3-00 

3-00 



Fruit * (freak). 











Banana (ohampa) 

Asansol 

100 

3 12 

3-25 

3-25 

3 12 

3-12 

3-17 


i 


Burdwan 

11 

2*50 

2*50 

2*50 

2*50 

2*50 

2*60 

2-62 

( 

Orange (Darjeehng) 

Asansol 

II 

8*00 

8*00 

8*00 

8*00 

8-00 

8*00 

16*00 

i 


Burdwan 

II 

11-00 

12.00 

12.00 

11.00 

12*00 

11 00 

1212 

i 

Coooanut (green) 

Burdwan 

»* 

22 50 

22 50 

22*50 

22 50 

22*50 

22*60 

21-87 

U 


Katwa 

•t 

N.S. 

N.S. 

22-00 

22*00 

22*00 

22*00 

23-00 

i 23 

Fruiie (dry). 











Cocoonut (Dry with shell) 

Burdwan 

100 

33-00 

35*00 

35*00 

40*00 

45-00 

37*60 

32 * 75 

27 


Asansol 

>1 

35 00 

35*00 

35*00 

35*00 

35*00 

35 00 

36-75 

35 

Bgga. 











Hen egg (graded) 

Burdwan 

100 

16-00 

16*00 

16*00 

16*50 

16*00 

16 10 


14 

Han egg (ungraded) 

Ditto 

II 

15*75 

15-76 

15 76 

16*25 

15*76 

15*85 


14 


Asansol 

M 

16-00 

15-50 

15-00 

16*12 

16*25 

16*77 

jpg 

15 

j 


Qushkai* 

»* 

15 50 

15*50 

15*50 

16*00 

15*50 

16*60 

Hi 





















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


20 } 


aHll if BURDWAH — contd. BMmMr 1M4> 


Commodity. 


TT n :* 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

least 

Average of 


unit. 

2nd 

9th 

10 th 

23rd 

30th 

month's 

average. 

December 

I960. 





Rs. nP. 

Rs. nl \ 

Us. nP. 

Uh. nV, 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nl*. 

Rs. Ill’ 

Rs. nP. 

Eggs. — conoid 












ke gg(g»ded) 

*• 

Burdwan 

100 

15*50 

15*00 

15*62 

16-62 

15-62 

15-47 

15*06 

14-86 

k m (u»g r * d * d ) 


Burdwan 

•• 

15-26 

14*75 

16-37 

15*37 

16-37 

16-22 

15*06 

14 40 



Asansol 

99 

17*00 

10 *50 

10-00 

16 00 

16-12 

16*32 

17 50 

18 00 



Gushkara 

91 

1600 

14*50 

15*12 

16-12 

16-12 

14*97 

14*75 

14-16 

Poultry . 












-1 (Live weight) 

•• 

Domohani 

100 lbs. 

115 00 

115*00 

115*00 

115*00 

116-00 

115 00 

115-00 

150 00 

k 

• 9 

Domohini 

.. 

no- oo 

110*00 

110*00 

110 00 

110-00 

110 00 

110 00 

110 00 

ikon n 

• • 

Domohini 

»» 

100 00 

100 00 

160*00 

160*00 

160-00 

160*00 

160 00 

180 00 

tilt and milk products. 











; (Cow) 

•• 

Kalna 

Md. 

28-00 

30*00 

28*00 

28*00 

28-00 

28-40 

30-25 

28 00 



Katwa 

>i 

22-60 

25*00 

25*00 

25 00 

26-00 

24*50 

23*12 

22-00 



Burdwan 


30 00 

30*00 

30*00 

30-00 

30-00 

30-00 

3000 

30 00 

(Buffalo) 

•• 

Kalna 

•» 

38-00 

38*00 

38*00 

38-00 

38-00 

38*00 

40*25 

33 00 



Asalia ol 

• t 

35*00 

35*00 

35*00 

35-00 

35-00 

35(H) 

35*00 

35 00 



Burdwan 

R 

»» 

35-00 

35*00 

35 00 

35 00 

86-00 

35-00 

35 00 

34 00 

i&a (unskimmed) 

•• 

Burdwan 

•• 

40*00 

40*00 

38 00 

35*00 

32-00 

38 00 

57 50 

74 40 

• 


Katwa 

•• 

105 00 

100-00 

100 00 

100 *00 

100- (K) 

101 -00 

110 00 

80-00 

Fish' 












h 


Kalna 

Md. 

120-00 

125*00 

125*00 

125-00 

115-00 

122*00 

, 

127*50 

97 00 



Katwa 

•» 

105-00 

00*00 

90-00 

90-00 

00- 00 

' 

93- 00 

98-75 

N.S. 



Burdwan 

»* 

115*00 

115*00 

115*00 

118*00 

118-00 

116*20 

111 75 

95 40 

it 

•• 

Kalna 

»# 

125*00 

140*00 

135*00 

135*00 

125-00 

132 00 

136*25 

106.00 



Katwa 

M 

125* 00 

105*00 

105*00 

105*00 

105-00 

109*00 

122*50 

N.S. 



Burdwan 


120 00 

120-00 

120 00 

120*00 

120 00 

120 00 

116*60 

96*80 

and goat. 












Mve weight. 10 sr*.) 1 

Domohani 

Each 

23*00 

23 00 

23*00 

23*00 

23-00 

23 00 

23 00 

23-00' 


1 

Pachundi 

n 

21*50 

21 50 

20 00 

20*00 

20 00 

20 60 

22 62 

20-30 

(Uve weight. 12 era.) 

Domohani 

91 

22*00 

22*00 

22*00 

22*00 

22 -00 

22 00 

22 *00 

22*00 



Paohundi 

99 

21*50 

21*50 

20*00 

20*00 

20-00 

20-60 

22*62 

N.S. 

Milch Cattle, 












yielding 1 


Lalganj 

Each 

110*00 

110 00 

110*00 

110 00 

110-00 

110 00 

no oo 

110-00 



Paohundi 

ii 

110 00 

110*00 

105 00 

110*00 

110.00 

109 00 

102*50 

68*00 

yielding 8 

m. 

Laiganj 

ii 

250*00 

260*00 

250 00 

250*00 

250-00 

250 00 

250 00 

255-00 




Paohaudi 

ii 

200*00 

200*00 

212*00 

200-00 

175-00 

193-40 

25000 

N.S. ’ 











204 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


WhSliMlS priMS BURDWAN — condd. Q«tmtor U 


Commodity* 

Name of market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Hat unlay, dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month’s 

average. 

Avora^ 

Uecetu 

m 

2nd 

9th 

16th 

23rd 

30th 





Bs. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

Bs. nP. 

Bs. nP. 

Bs. nP. 

Bs. nP. 

Bs. nP. 

Bs. j 













CaJtl# Fodder . 












Paddy straw 

Kalna 

•* 

Knhan of 
16 indu. 

33 00 

30 00 

81 50 

32 50 

32*50 

31-00 

33 60 

411 


Doluibazar 


»» 

28 00 

30 00 

28 00 

80 00 

32-00 

29 60 

28 50 

37 


Gushkara 

•• 

ft 

20 00 

28 • 00 

27 (HI 

29 *00 

30-00 

28 00 

28 00 

37- 

Oil and oil Cafes#. 












Oil (Mustard) 

Burdwan 


Md. 

08 00 

95 00 

99*00 

08 00 

95-60 

90 10 

94 37 

92 


Memari 


pp 

97 00 

90 50 

97*00 

96 00 

95 50 

96 20 

94-44 

»2 


Baniganj 


,p 

99 00 

99*00 

99 00 

95 00 

95-00 

97 50 

95 00 

93 

Oil oaks (Mustard) • • 

Burdwan 


ft 

12 75 

12*00 

12 25 

11 50 

11-50 

12 00 

13 37 

13 


Memari 


ft 

12 09 

12*37 

11*50 

11*50 

11-00 

11-81 

13 31 

12- 


Baniganj 


ft 

12 50 

11*25 

1100 

11*26 

11-26 

11*46 

Tl *75 

10 

Tobacco . 












Motihari 

Burdwan 


Md. 

180-00 

180-00 

160*00 

160 00 

160-00 

168 00 

184 (H) 

105 


Katwa 


»» 

145 00 

no oo 

110*00 

110 00 

110-00 

117 00 

186-26 

108 


Baniganj 


„ 

107 50 

107-50 

107-50 

167 50 

170*00 

16* 00 

158 76 

ICO ( 

Bidi 

Burdwan 


»» 

170 00 

175 00 

170*00 

170 00 

180-00 

173 00 

166 25 

164 0 


Asansol 


•• 

180 00 

180-00 

180*00 

180-00 

180-00 

180 00 

190-00* 

2IH) (1 

Fibre. 












Juts I. M. Dt. • - 

Kalna 

• • 

Md. 

28*75 

29*50 

29-00 

28-75 

20*50 

20-10 

30*94 

47 S 


Katwa 


»( 

27 • 50 

27*50 

27*50 

27*50 

27*50 

27 60 

29*25 

48-2 


Memari 


ft 

27*50 

27*50 

27*50 

28 00 

29*00 

27-90 

20-12 

47 1! 

Miscellaneous $. 












Qur (Bheli) 

Kalna 


Md. 

23 00 

23 • 00 

22 00 

22*00 

20*00 

22-00 

27-00 

2S*«( 


Baniganj 


>f 

21 50 

17 00 

18 *00 

17*00 

17-00 

18 10 

20 62 

18 Si 


Burdwan 



21 *00 

20*60 

20-00 

24 00 

17 60 

20 50 

2d- 75 

23 4j 

Our (Cane) . . 

Kalna 


rt 

20 00 

26*00 

24*00 

24*00 

22-00 

24-20 

26 00 

wi 

j 


Katwa 


it 

15*00 

1500 

15 <K) 

15 00 

N.8. 

16 00 

16-50 

20 tt 

• 

Burdwan 


M 

22*00 

21*00 

22*00 

20 00 

20-00 

21-00 

21 25 

22 i 

Qur (Gurwalt Bab) • • 

Burdwan 


it 

0*00 

12*00 

12*00 

10*00 

10-00 

10-00 

6*75 

» 


Firewood (Common) 

Kalna 


If 

2*50 

2*50 

2 50 

2 50 

2-50 

2-60 

2 12 

1 

I 

Burdwan 


t» 

1 60 

1*50 

i 

1 75 

1*75 

2-00 

1 90 

1 60 

2 ( 

Flattened rice 

Burdwan 


St 

28- 00 

28*00 

28 00 

28*00 

28-00 

28 00 

27 60 

3 - S 


Baniganj 


ft 

25 50 

25 50 

25 60 

25*60 

25-50 

26 40 

25-12 

23 4 

Farohed rioo 

Burdwan 


99 

30 00 

30 00 

30* 00 j 

30*00 

80 00 

30 00 

-1 













SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


205 


id prices BIRBHUM December 1961 



Name of market. 

Unit. 

Collection WoekH ended Saturday, dated — 

Mont hly 

Last 

month’s 

average. 

Average of 
December, 
1960. 

onu^odity. 

2nd 

9th 

16th 

23rd 

30th 

average. 




Its. nP. 

Us. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Ka. nr. 

Kb. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Cereals . 

00) Ba*"* 1 

Sainthia 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

ifxlniiu) Halm* « • 

Ditto 

M 

10*87 

11*00 

11 -00 

11*87 

11*00 

11-15 

13 34 

12*60 

wrap) Sindur- 

Ditto 

»» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

) Ramsal 

Ditto 

ft 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

i,um) Kalin* . . 

Ditto 

ft 

20 00 

19*75 

19-02 

19-75 

20- 00 

19*82 

22 44 

20*20 

rM .) Sindurraukhi 

Ditto 

-- 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

nines (u'hole). 

Sainthia 

Md. 

21 25 

21-25 

21*50 

21 50 

25-25 

22-15 

21-15 

20 00 

•• 

Ditto 

• t 

J7 50 

J7-00 

17-25 

17 50 

17-25 

17*30 

16 81 

10 76 

it** (split). 











i.l.iiurv) 

Sainthia 

Md. 

20-50 

20 00 

20-50 

20 00 

20-00 

20 20 

27-12 

20-90 

lie) 

Ditto 

„ 

22 25 

21-00 

22-00 

22 00 

21-00 

21-05 

21 50 

20-70 

W 

Ditto 

ft 

21 12 

21 25 

21-25 

20*60 

20*50 

20*92 

21-53 

23-20 

I'R) 

Ditto 

,, 

28 00 

25 00 

24 00 

25-00 

24-50 

25-30 

24-84 

24 20 


Ditto 

t 

" 

10 00 

17 50 

17 50 

17 00 

17*00 

17-00 

16 96 

14 70 

Spires. 

j sln, Hlattll ) 

Rampuihut .. 

Md. 

15-00 

15 00 

14 00 

11*00 

9 00 

12 80 

13 62 

12 00 

mid vegetables. 









• 


ioshi) (round) 

Rampurliat . . 

Md. 

22 00 

17-00 

14 00 

12-00 

11-00 

15-20 

23 - 50 

11-80 

ioolu) 

Ditto 

M 

10-00 

10-00 

8-00 

7 00 

7-00 

8*40 

10*75 

6-80 

(<lwhi) 

Ditto 

ft 

N.S. 

15 00 

13 00 

I 11 00 

12-00 

12-76 

N.S. 

11.33 

(di-Jn) 

Ditto 

M 

N.S. 

12 00 

15 00 

12 00 

10 50 

1237 

N.S. 

17 00 

%*. 








* 



• . 

Chatrnliat 

100 

13*50 

13-25 

13*12 

13*50 

11*00 

12 87 

12-37 

12*20 

•• 

Ditto 

•f 

13 75 

13-50 

13-75 

13 75 

11 -50 

13 25 

12-81 

12*30 

Poultry. 










• 

1 Hr. ) 

Chatrahat 

Each. 

2*50 

2-50 

2 -50 

2-50 

2 25 

2 15 

2 53 

2- 25 

,wt *lflr.) 

Ditto 

- 

1 75 

1-75 

2-25 

2 25 

2* 12 

2 02 

1 75 

200 

^ Cattle. 

of milk 

Sainthia 

Each. 

200*00 

200-00 

200*00 

200 00 

200*00 

200 00 

J 191-25 

180 00 












206 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


Wholesale prices BIRBHUWI— cowcta. December 


Commodity. 

Name of market. 

Unit. 

i 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated — 

Monthly 

■w 

A\ 

7\ 

2nd 

9th 

16th 

23rd 

30th 

average. 

II 


Cattle Fodder. 



Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP- 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. uV. 


Pat My Btraw 

Sainthia 

Kuban 

of 

1 8 nnlrt. 

30 • f >0 

30-00 

28 00 

30 00 

28- 00 

29-20 

33 25 


Oil and oilcake. 











Mustard oil 

Saintliia 

Md. 

92 00 

92 00 

91 50 

90- 00 

91 00 

91-30 

90-25 


1 o licit kn 

]»illo 

» 

12 00 

12 00 

12-00 

12 25 

12- 00 

12-00 

12-54 

: 

Miscellaneous. 










1 

C*ir (velly) 

Siiinthia 

Md. 

21 00 

18- CO 

17-00 

16-00 

17 00 

17 90 

20-00 





















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


1 07 


fliolettle prices BANK UR A December 19G1 


Commodity. 

Name of market. 

Unit. 

| Collection Weeks ended »Sa1uiduy, < 

lilted- 

Monthly 

average. 

Lust 

month's 

average. 

A via age of 
December, 
I960. 

2nd 

9 tli 

m 

23rd 

30th 




Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 



Rs. nr. 

Rs. nl*. 

Rs. ill*. 

Rs. nP. 

G Breeds. 











addv AmanSitasal (fine) 

Bankura(P) 

Md. 

15 00 

15-00 

1400 

15-00 

14-00 

14 00 

14-25 

14-33 

9 Old 

Bishnupur (P) 

99 

14 50 

14 50 

14-50 

14 50 

14-50 

14 50 

14 50 

13-50 


Kotulpur(P) . . 

t 9 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N«w 

Bankura (P) . . 


N.S. 

1300 

13-00 

13-00 

N.S. 

13-00 

N.S. 

13-80 


Bishnupur (P) 

,, 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N S. 

N.S. 

13 25 


Kotulpur (P) . . 

M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

1 300 

a ddv A man Jhingasal and 

Bankura(P) . . 

M 

1400 

MOO 

13 00 

13 50 

13-50 

13 00 

13 25 

12-50 

Kalainkuti (medium) Old 












Bi*hnupur(P) 

99 

12*75 

12 25 

12 25 

12-50 

12-50 

12 45 

12-02 

12-60 


Kotulpur(P) . . 


N.S. 

12-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12-00 

12-53 

N.S. 

New 

Bankura (P) . . 

99 

11-25 

11-75 

12-00 

12*00 

12*00 

11 SO 

N.S. 

12-20 


Bislmupur (P) 

fF 

N.S. 

11 -00 

10-75 

11 00 

11-00 

10-94 

N.S. 

11-30 


Kotulpur (p) 

99 

N.S. 

10-75 

10-02 

10-75 

10-75 

10-72 

N.S. 

11*21 

iiddyAmanNona (coarse) 

Bankiua(P) 

99 

13-00 

13-00 

12-00 

12-75 

12-00 

12-55 

12-25 

11 ‘75 

Old 

BiHhnupur(P) 


12 -50 

12 00 

12 00 

12-00 

1 2 ■ 25 

12 15 

12 31 

12-00 


Kotulpur(P) . . 


12-02 

11-75 

12-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12-12 

12 00 

N.S. 

New 

Bankura (P) . . 


10-75 

11-75 

10-50 

11-00 

10-75 

10 95 

N.S. 

11-30 


Bishnupur (P) 

, p 

N.S. 

10-75 

10-50 

10-75 

10-76 

10-69 

N.S. 

♦ 11-05 


Kotulpur (P) . . 

„ 

N.S. 

10-50 

10-37 

10-02 

10-02 

10-63 

N.S. 

10-90 

lira Aman Sitaual (line) Old 

Bankura(P) 

ii 

24 ■ 00 

24-00 

24 00 

21-00 

24-00 

24 00 

24 12 

24-33 


Bi8hnupur(P) 


23 50 

23-50 

23- 50 

23-50 

23-50 

23 50 

23 37 

22-75 


Kotulpur(P) . . 

„ 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

^ New 

Bankura (P) . . 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

22-00 

N.S. 

-2 • 00 

N.S. 

23*70 


Bishnupur ( P) 

>i 

N.S. 

N S 

N.S. 

N S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

21 -75 


Kotulp u r (P) 

,, 

N.S. 

N.S 

NS. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

2 1-50 

lioc. Aman Jhingasal and 

Bankura(P) 

• » 

22-00 

22-00 

22 00 

22-50 

22-50 

22 - 20 

22 00 

22-33 

Kalamkati (medium) Old 












BiHhnupur(P) 

»» 

21-00 

21 00 

20-75 

21 00 

21 -00 

20- 95 

21-00 

2100 


Kotulpur(P) 

,, 

20- 75 

20- 75 

20-50 

'N.S. 

N.S. 

20 07 

20-09 

20-75 

New 

Bankura (P) . 


20-00 

20-00 

20-50 

20-50 

20 50 

20-30 

N.S. 

21 - 50 


Bishnupur (P) 

,, 

N.S. 

19 50 

10-00 

19-00 

19-00 

19- 12 

N.S. 

19-19 


Kotulpur (P) . . 

,, 

N.S. 

19-25 

1 8 50 

18-50 

18-75 

1 8 • 75 

N.S. 

18-85 

lira Aman Nona (coarse) 

Bankura(P) 

»» 

21 • 00 

21* uO 

21 00 

21 -50 

20-50 

2 1 - 00 

1891 

20-25 

Old 

Biflhnupur(P) 

99 

20-00 

jO-OO 

20-00 

20-00 

20-00 

20-00 

18 41 

20-00 


Kotulpur(P) . . 

„ 

20-00 

20-00 

20-00 

N.S 

N S. 

20- 00 

18-00 

20-00 

New 

Bankura (P) .. 

„ 

19-00 

19-00 

18-50 

18-50 

18-00 

18-00 

N.S. 

19*46 


Bishnupur (P) 


N.S. 

19-00 

1 8 • 50 

18-50 

18-50 

18-02 

N.S. 

18-30 

• 

Kotulpur (P . . 

»* 

N.S. 

19-00 

18- ()0 

18-00 

18-00 

18-20 

N.S. 

18- 10 

Pulse s (whole). 











Iiwur Khari (big) . . 

Bankura 

Md. 

22-50 

22 00 

21 00 

23 00 

22 50 

22 20 

21-02 

19-90 


Bishnupur 


23 25 

23 25 

23 25 

22-75 

22-75 

23 05 

22 26 

19-00 

lusur Khari (small) 

Bankura 

»* 

21-50 

21-00 

20-50 

22 00 

21-75 

21 35 

20 31 

18-30 


Bishnupur 

ii 

21 -00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

21-00 

20*75 

19-00 

' ri( l Black (big) 

Bankura 


22-00 

22 00 

21-00 

23 00 

22-50 

22-10 

22-87 

19-15 


Bishnupur 

»* 

23-00 

22-50 

22 75 

22-50 

20 -00 

22 15 

22 50 

18-36 

'ud Black (small) 

Bankura 


19-00 

18-50 

1 S • 00 

21 -00 

20-00 

19 30 

17-02 

17-95 


Biahnupur 

*» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

20.50 

N.S. 

Pulnes (split). 











(big) . . 

Bankura 

Md. 

22-00 

22 00 

22 50 

22.00 

mm 

21 90 

20 02 

20-00 


Bishnupur 

,, 

21-00 

21 - no 

22 • 00 

20-75 

21 00 

20 26 

*21-12 

21-55 

^r(Hinall) 

Bankura 

99 

21 -00 

21-00 

21-00 

20.00 


20-00 

19-50 

19-20 


Bishnupur 

ff 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Spices, 











feor ‘ Madras 

Bankura 

Md. 

18-00 

10.00 

10-00 

14-00 

14-00 

15-00 

16 12 

12.33 


Bishnupur 

ii 

N.S. 

N.S. 

17 50 

17-50 

17-60 

17-50 

N.S. 

14.04 


Kotulpur 

» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

18 00 

18-00 


18-00 

N.S. 

15.20 








1 


. 
















208 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


WMmli prices BAN KURA — contd. December 196] 


Commodity. 



Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 

dated — 

Monthly 

Lost 

month’s 

average. 

Averts fj 
Dmunl*., 
P'60. 

i\ nine ot ntaricoi. 

2nd 

9th 

16th 

23rd 

30th 

average. 





Hh. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP 

Ra. nP, 

Re. uB, 

Sjiicea — concld . 












Onion (Bombay) 

Bankura 


Md. 

19 00 


15-00 

15-00 

11-00 

15-00 

18.00 

13-25 


Biahnupur 


»» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Kotulpur 



N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S, 

Onion (Patnni) 

Bankura 



10-00 

16-00 

17.00 

16.00 

14.00 

15.80 

16.25 

N.S. 


Biahnupur 


„ 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Kotulpur 



N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

NS. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Onion (Raegoori) imall . . 

Bankura 


» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Biwlmupur 



17.50 

17.50 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

17.50 

18.00 

N.S. 

• 

Kotulpur 



18-00 

18.00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

18.00 

18.44 

N.S. 

Chillies -dry -J ord a 

Bankura 


M 

115-00 

110-00 

110-00 

108-00 

100-00 

108-60 

105-75 

H6 0 


Bishnupur 


99 

107-00 

109 00 

96-00 

88-00 

88-00 

97-60 

82-50 

HO. 6 

Onion Hehar 

Bankura 


„ 

106-00 

106 00 

105-00 

95-00 

100-00 

102-40 

100-00 

HK () 


Bishnupur 


•• 

103-00 

102 00 

95-00 

90-00 

90 00 

96 00 

89 75 

83 0 

Milk and milk products. 












Ghee (buffalo) 

Bishnupur 


Md. 

235 06 

225-00 

230 00 

230 00 

230-00 

230-00 

235 00 

23 Mt 

Chhana (skimmed) 

Ditto 


». 

30 00 

27 50 

27 50 

30 OU 

30 -00 

29 00 

29 37 

3o 01 

Chhana (unskimmed) 

Ditto 


ft 

75 00 

75-00 

75 00 

75-00 

75 -00 

75 • €0 

75 00 

% IH 

Oil, oilseed & oilcake. 











• 

Mustard oil seed 

Bankura 


Md. 

35 00 

33 00 

34-00 

36 00 

37-00 

35 00 . 

36 75 

a;* ji 


Bislmtipur 


II 

38 50 

38-00 

35 25 

37-25 

35-75 

37 25 

35 50 

34-tft- 

Mustard oil 

Bankura 


Md. 

91-00 

89-00 

90 50 

90 00 

93-00 

90 70 

89-75 

00 3! 


Biahnupur 


„ 

92-00 

90 00 

90 50 

90 00 

90-50 

90-60 

89 50 

80 HU 

Mustard oiloake 

Bankura 


• » 

12 25 

12-00 

12-62 

11-75 

11-88 

12 10 

12-47 

11 95 


Bishnupur 


»! 

12-50 

12 • 50 

12-25 

12-12 

12-00 

Mma 

12 34 

12 10 

Tobacco . 

i 











Bidi Tobacco (Noj>ani) . . 

Bankura 

•• 

Md. 

200-00 

200-00 

200 00 

200-00 

200- 00 

200-00 

200-00 

200 09 


Bishnupur 

•• 

»» 

210-00 

210-00 

210-00 

210-00 

210-00 

210-00 

210-00 

200 00 

Lac . 












Stick Lac (Baishakhi) 

Khatra (P) 

| 

•• 

Md. 

32-00 

34-00 

34 00 

33-00 

35-00 

33 60 

33 25 

47-10 

Sheep and Goat. 












Goat (He) srs. of meat 

Kotulpur 

•• 

Kach 

20-50 

20-50 

20-50 

20-50 

20 50 

20-60 

20-12 

ID 50 

Cattle fodder. 











26-49 

Faddy Straw 

Jhantipahari 


Kahan 
of 14 
nuls. 

22-00 

28.00 

22.00 

22.00 

21.00 

23 00 

23-00 

! 

1 















SUPPLEMENT TO TIIE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


209 


pltsflls prices BAN KURA — concld. December 1961 


Commodity. 

Name of market. 


Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated — 

Monthly 
aver igo. 

Hast 

month's 

uvorugo. 

Average of 

unit. 

2nd 

9th 

10th 

23rd 

30th 

Bocombor, 

1060. 

Hide and akin. 



Rs. nP. 



Rs. nP. 


Kh. up 

Rs. nP. 

Rh. uP. 

Jo Hides 

Khatra (P) 

Pieco 

22-00 

23 00 

22-00 

22-00 

20- 00 

21-80 

22 - 50 

20 70 

Hide* 

Ditto (P) . . 

»» 

8 50 

0 00 


8-50 

8-00 

0 00 

8 87 

0-00 

skin 

Ditto (P) . . 

99 

3 00 

3 00 


3 00 

3 00 

3 00 

2 00 

3 20 

» skin • . 

Ditto (P) . . 

« 

1 50 

1-50 

1 50 

1-50 

1-25 

1-45 

1 50 

1-50 

Miscellaneous. 











)- Gut 

Ban kora 

Md. 

22 . 00 

21.00 

21-00 

IS- oo 

19 00 

20-20 

21-02 

17-00 


Bishnupur 

ft 

20 00 

19-00 

18-00 

18-25 

18-00 

18 65 

18 67 

17 90 

Gur 

Bankura 

ft 

18 00 

25 00 

24 00 

20 00 

10-00 

22-40 

10-00 

13-00 


Bishnupur 

It 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13-50 

N.S. 

i 

Bankura 

ft 

43 00 

44-00 


43 00 

43-00 

43 40 

41 25 

39 00 


Bishnupur 

ft 

45-50 

40-00 

43 50 

41 50 

42-50 

43-80 

42-00 

39-80 

rood (common Shal) 

Ditto 

• • 

2-25 

2-25 

2 25 

2-25 

2-25 

2 25 

2-25 

2 07 


Peardoba 

-» 

212 

2-12 

2 12 

2-12 

1 2 * 12 

2-12 

2- 12 

2-07 








210 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


Wholesale prices MIDNAPORE December! 


f'utuiiiodd^ • 

Name of market. 


Collection weeks ondod Saturday, dated — 

Monthly 

Lust 

month’w 

average. 

A\f i 
'it 

uiut. 

2nd 

9th 

16th 

23rd 

30th 

average. 

iVci'i 

he 




Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Its. nP. 

Ks. nP 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Kb. 

Cereals. 











Paddy medium Kupnal (now) 

Midnaporo 

Md. 

N.S. 

11 *25 

11*00 

11*50 

11*00 

11*19 

N.S. 

1: 

Balam 

Ghatal 


N.S. 

11 *00 

11*00 

10*75 

1 1 • 00 

10*94 

N.S. 

l 

l’utnai 

Kalmugoro (P) 


N.S. 

N.S. 

12*50 

12*75 

13-00 

12*75 

N.S. 

I: 

ruddy medium RupHtd (old) 

MuJ impure 


13-25 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13*25 

13*50 

V 

Balam 

G.uitid 


13 25 

13.25 

10-75 

12*75 

12 75 

12-55 

13*00 

1, 

l’alnai 

Kali augur (1*) 

»» 

13-00 

13*50 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13-25 

12*87 

.\ 

Paddy coarse 0 aril (now) . . 

Midnuporu 


10*50 

10*25 

10-00 

10*50 

10-00 

10*25 

N.S. 

1! 


Ghatal 


10-75 

10*50 

13*25 

10*50 

10-75 

11*15 

N.S. 

I 


Kulinagoro (P) 

ft 

N.S. 

11*00 

11*50 

11 50 

11-25 

11*31 

N.S. 

1 

Paddy (oouran) Garh (old) . . 

Midnaporo 


11-50 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12* 00 

11*75 

12*43 

1. 


Ghatal 


12 75 

12-75 

12 75 

12*00 

12*00 

12*45 

12*37 

1 


Kulinagar (P) 

99 

1 1 ■ 00 

12 • 00 

12-50 

13*00 

N.S. 

12*13 

11*62 

.N 

Kiev (fine) Sdunul (now) . . 

Miduuporo 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

0 


Kharrgpur 

»> 

N.S. 

25*00 

25-00 

24*50 

24*00 

24*03 

N.S. 

- 

Rioo (lino) Sitaaal (old) 

Midnaporo 


20-00 

20 ■ 00 

26*00 

20-00 

25*50 

25*90 

26-00 



Kharagpur 


25-50 

25 50 

25-50 

25-50 

26*00 

25*00 

• 25 62 


Kic.o (inodiuTii) Rupwal (now) 

Midnaporo 


N.S. 

21 *50 

21 *00 

21-00 

20*50 

21*00 

N.S. 


Balam 

Ghatal 


IK 50 

18*25 

21-25 

22-00 

18-25 

19*25 

N.S. 

1 ( 

Rupwal 

Kharagpur 

»l 

N.S. 

21 *50 

21*50 

21*00 

21 *00 

21*25 

N.S. 

2( 

Hico (inodiurn) Rupsal (old) 

Midnaporo 


21-00 

23*00 

22*50 

23 00 

22*50 

23*00 

24 00 

2 

Balam 

Ghatal 


21 00 

21-00 

1 8 ■ 50 

18 50 

22 • 00 

22*00 

21-06 

2. 

Rupsul 

Kharagpur 

♦ » 

22-50 

22 50 

22 -GO 

22*50 

23 • 00 

22*60 

23*00 

N 

Rico (coarse) Garh (now) . . 

Midnaporo 


18-50 

19-00 

19-00 

19*00 

IK-50 

18*80 

N.S. 

ii, 


Ghatal 


17-00 

17-50 

20 -25 

20*00 

17-00 

18-35 

N.S. 

l! 


j Kharagpur 

M 

N.S. 

18-87 

18-75 

18*90 

18-00 

# 18*53 

N.S. 

It 

Rice (ooarHo) Garh (old) . . 

Midnaporo 

M 

21-00 

20-50 

20-50 

21*00 

20*50 

20*70 

21*02 

01 


Ghatal 


20*25 

20*25 

17*25 

18*00 

20* 00 

17*55 

20-90 

S 


Kharagpur 

•• 

19 -75 

19-75 1 

19-75 

19*50 

20*00 

19 75 

20*31 

X 

Pulses (whole). 











Mung (ordinary) 

Manikpara 

Md. 

23*00 

23-50 

N.S. 

21*25 

21*00 

22*31 

23-58 

o» 

Urid (small) 

Ditto 

»» 

19*50 

19*50 

N.S. 

18*00 

18*00 

18*75 

19-62 

X. 

Gram (small) 

Ditto 

M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

16*00 

X. 

Gram (big) (Punjab) 

Kharagpur 

• » 

17*00 

1700 

17 -00 

17 -00 

17-00 

17*00 

16*75 

IT 

Khesari 

Dudkumra 

** 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

10*87 

X 

Pulses (split). 











Mnng (ordinary) 

Midnaporo 

Md. 

27-00 

20 00 

26*00 

25*50 

25*00 

25-90 

27-12 

l1 7 


Kharagpur 

»» 

25*00 

25*50 

24-00 

24-00 

24*00 

24-50 

26-00 

23 

Masui (big) 

Midnaporo 

»* 

22*00 

24*00 

24 00 

26*00 

26*00 

24*40 

22 * 2 5 

22 

f • • 

Kharagpur 


22*50 

22 • 50 

23*00 

23*00 

23*00 

24 80 

22 - 25 

20 

Masur (small) 

Ditto 

if 

21*00 

21*00 

22 -00 

22*00 

22*00 

21*60 

21*00 

)i 

Grom (big) 

Ditto 

99 

18*75 

19*00 

18* 50 

21*00 

19*00 

19*25 

18*75 

| 


Spices. 









1 


Onion (Bombay ) 

Midnaporo 

Md. 

20*00. 

20*00 

19*00 

16*00 

14*00 

17*80 

19*12 ! 

13 

(Madras) 

Kharagpur 

if 

17*00 

16*50 

14*50 

13*00 

13*00 

14*80 

15*25 

9 

(Tripuri) 

Midnaporo 

ft 

20*00 

20*00 ! 

19*00 

16*00 

14*00 

17*80 

18*93 

13 

(Patnai) 

Kharagpur . . 

» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

16*25 













SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


211 


fliolesale prices MIDNAPORE— coveld. December 1961 



Commorlity. 

Niuno of market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

l.uM 

month’s 

average. 

Average of 
December 
1960. 

2nd 

9th 

16th 

23rd 

30 th 





Kb. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

11s. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

lls. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Potato and veyctables. 











htftto (Xiiiui fcul) 

Midnapore 

M d. 

30-00 

23 00 

20*00 

14*00 

12*00 

19*80 

28*75 

N.S. 

1 


A mi agora 

,, 

.‘10 00 

21*00 

18*00 

13(H) 

1 1 • 00 

19*20 

28* 12 

N.S. 



DudkuTnra 

#» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13*50 

13 50 

13*50 

28*00 

N.S. 


(Madras) 

Midnapore 


30-00 

23-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

26 * 50 

28*87 

16*00 



Kharagpur 

»* 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

27*60 

12*80 



Amlagora 


20*00 

24-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

26*50 

28*75 

16*00 



Dudkumra 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


(Cold Storage) 

Kharagpur 

„ 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

NS. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

sot- l'umkin 

Amlugora 

99 

7*50 

0*00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

0*70 

8 *12 

5 • ] 6 



Jliurgruixi 

ft 

8-00 

7*50 

7* 50 

7*50 

7*50 

7- (i0 

7*50 

10 * (H) 



Dudkumra 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

10*37 

0-00 


Ejya and Poultry . 











n (ungraded) 

Hinpur 

100 Non 

14*00 

14 00 

11*00 

12 50 

12*50 

13*40 

12*37 

9-85 

wl (live wt. 1$ turn.) 

Ditto 

Koch 

3 25 

3*75 

3*75 

3 75 

3*75 

3*65 

3*06 

3-35 



Tongra 

- 

3 • 50 

3*50 

3*50 

3*50 

3*50 

3 1)0 

3*19 

2-80 


iShrrp arul Goat. 











X'P (live wt. 12 «rn.) 

Binpur 

Kach 

20*00 

20-00 

20-00 

20*00 

20*00 

20-00 

10-76 

io ■ co 

Bt (live wt. 14 HFH.) 

Ditto 


30 00 

32*00 

33*00 

35 00 

34-00 

32*80 

26*25 

24-00 

It (live wt. 12 are.) 

Tongra 

99 

23*50 

23 50 

24-00 

24 *00 

24*00 

23-80 

23*25 

22 • 00 


Fruits (dry). 











tiew (Kornol) 

fcontai (P) 

Md. 

120*00 

120*00 

120*00 

120*00 

120-00 

120-00 

120-00 

100-00 


Cattle fodder. 











Idy Btraw 

Balliohak 

Md. 

1-25 

1-25 

1*50 

1*50 

1-50 

1-40 

112 

2-80 


ill" and milk product s. 












(buffalo) 

Amlagora 

Md. 

20 00 

26*00 

30*00 

30*00 

28*00 

28*00 

27-25 

84-40 


ma (nkimmed) 

Ditto 

99 

50*00 

52*00 

54*00 

60*00 

50-00 

51-20 

54-25 

50-00 


*r (local) 

Qhatal 

99 

220-00 

220*00 

220*00 

220*00 

220-00 

220-00 

220*00 

220-00 


W and oilcake. 












oil 

Midnapore 

Md. 

06-00 

92*00 

92*00 

90*00 

92-00 

02*00 

91*37 

90-40 



Kharagpur 

99 

91*00 

90*00 

90 • 00 

90 - 00 

90*00 

90*20 

86*50 

90*50 


oilcake 

Amlagora 

99 

15*00 

15*00 

12*50 

13-00 

12* 00 

13*90 

13*75 

13-30 



Dudkumra 

99 

13-00 

12*62 

12-25 

12*25 

12*25 

12-47 

14-25 

13-00 



Kharagpur 

99 

12*75 

13*00 

13*00 

12*75 

12*75 

12*70 

12*75 

13 *05 


Fibres, 









m 



( Gttrsat) 

Dudkumra 

Md. 

28*00 

29*00 

30*00 

28*50 

33*00 

28*90 

30-50 

48*80 



Kolaghat 

99 

20 *00 

29-00 

30 *00 

31 *00 

31 *00 

30*00 

32*60 

47-80 


Miscellaneous. 












*aj»o) 

• # 

Amlagora 

Md. 

13*50 

13 *50 

13 *00 

12 00 

12*00 

12*70 

14-75 

10-00 



Ditto 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13*00 

19*00 

19-00 

17*00 

N.S. 

N.S. 


►%<! 

Ditto 

99 

1 *50 

1*50 

2*00 

2*00 

2*00 

1-80 

1*87 

N.S. 



Jhargram 

99 

1-75 

1 *75 

1*75 

1 *75 

1-75 

1 -75 

1 *50 

186 



Tamluk 

1.000 

4 *50 

4*00 

3 *50 

3 *50 

400 

3*10 

4-00 

7 -20 




No*. 











Paddy (fum, Sitawal) 


Mutibn/.ar (P) 


. (mo.li.im, Bolittl) • • l*uruliii 


paddy (courso, bob) 


Rico (film, SitaHul) 


Maul my, nr (P) 


Manhtr/jn (P) 


Purnlia 
Man bazar (P) 


<,„(.m..Iiu.ii. •• l>un,lia 


Manba/.ar (P) 


Kioe (ooarso, 


Lb. 11) .♦ I>uruli,A 


Manbazar (P) 


Pul*** (Whole), 
Musur (khari) (big) 

Urid (block) (small) 

Pulse* (Split), 
Mung (dal) 

Oram (dal) 

Oil and Oilcakes. 
Mustard oil 
Mustard oilcako 

Potato and Onion. 
Potato (Red-round) 
Fotato (Bihar) 

Potato (Nainital) 
Potato (Madras) 

Onion (big) (imported) 


Puruliu 


Manbazar (P) 


N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N,S * 

28 25 29 00 30 00 30*00 80 00 


28 00 28-50 28*75 29*00 28 00 28*45 

2000 20*00 2000 19*00 19*00 I960 

90 *00 92 *00 92 *00 93 *00 94*00 93 40 

1325 13*00 1350 13*50 1300 13*5 

N.S. N.S. 16*00 13*00 12*50 13 83 

N.S. 25*00 N.S. N.S. 8*00 1® 50 

N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. 

27*50 N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. 27 50 

18-00 16*00 16*00 16*00 13*00 15 80 











SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


213 


4 


Vitiate priest PURUUA-coneW. De ctmfc w 1981 





Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated — 




Commodity. 

Name of market. 

Unit. 

— 




— 

— 

Monthly 

average. 

month’s 

Averaged f 
December 




2nd 

9th 

16th 

23rd 

30th 


average. 

1960. 




Rh. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Milch Cattle . 











r (milk yield 1 seer 

Kashipur (P) 

Bach 

130-00 

116-00 

11600 

115-00 

112-00 

117-40 

118-50 

53-60 

#ily) . „ 

, (milk yield 2 fleers 

Ditto 


230 00 

230-00 

230 00 

212-00 

215-00 

223-40 

222-60 

170 00 

wiy) . o 

- (milk yield 3 stws 

Ditto 


320 00 

350-00 

366-00 

320-00 

320-00 | 

334-00 

337-50 

226-00 

lily) 











Poultry and Egg*. 











1 itive weight 1 goer) 

Kashipur (P) 

Each 

4 • 50 

4-76 

4-76 

5 50 

5-00 

4-90 

4-25 

6-00 

(hen) 

Ditto 

Dozen 

1-31 

1-25 

1-25 

1-26 

1-50 

181 

1-46 

1 50 

(duok ) 

Ditto 

i 

1-09 

1 • HO 

1-80 

2-26 

2-25 

i -on 

2-11 

2 26 

land Milk Produet*. 











(oow) 

Kashipur (P) 

Md. 

30-00 

27-60 

27 -60 

30-00 

30 00 

29 -00 

27-50 

80 -00 

(buffalo) 

Ditto 

- 

36-00 

30-00 

30-00 

35-00 

35-00 

33 00 

82-60 

85 00 

Lac and Shellac. 











. Shellac 

Kalarampur (P) 

Mil. 

N.S. 

66-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

65-00 

N.S. 

62-00 

. Shellac (standard I) 

Ditto 

«« 

N.S. 

70 -00 

73-00 

73-00 

75 00 

72*76 

N.S. 

78 00 

Shellac (standard II) 

Ditto 

" 

N.S. 

72-00 

69-00 

69-00 

70- 00 

70 00 

N-8. 

68-80 

too (yellow) 

Ditto 


00 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

66-00 

66-87 

N.S. 

Ion Luo ibest) 

Ditto 

” 

94 00 

95-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

94-50 

98-62 

72-40 

Sml Lac. 











hmi 

Bfdarampur (P) 

Md. 

63-00 

00 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

66-60 

60 00 

N.S. 

Po . . 

Ditto 

" 

21-00 

46-00 

30-00 

34-00 

82-00 

32-40 

17-60 

59-00 

fekhi 

Ditto 

M 

33-00 

48-00 

34-00 

30-00 

36-00 

36-00 

46-87 

58-20 

*Sfto4 Lac. 











k 

Jhahla 

Md. 

40*00 

42*00 

40-00 

42-00 

42-00 

41-20 

35-83 

62-00 

1 

m 











Ditto 


24-00 

21-00 

22-60 

23-60 

22-50 

22-70 

18-37 

40-00 

kL: 

Ditto 

” 

N.S. 

32-00 

31-00 

31*50 

32-00 

31-50 

31-67 

36-00 



SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JJJNE 14, 1962 



Cereals. 

Paddy (fine) Nunia (Old) 
(New) 


Paddy (medium) Dudfckalms 

(New) 


Paddy (ooarse) Bagra (Old) 
(New) 


Bioe (fine) (Nunia) (Old) 
(Now) 


Bioe (medium) (Dudkalma) 
(Old) 

(Now) 

(Old) 

(Now) 

Bioe (medium) (Joahua) Old 
(New) 

Bioe {medium) (Nay bazar) 
(Old) 

(New) 


Bioe (coarse) (Bagra) (Old) 
(New) 


Bioe (coarse) (Chowdhani) 
(Old) 

(New) 

(O)d) 

(New) 


Dal ( split pulses). 

Mung (ordinary* XJ.P.) «• 

Maaur (big, Behar) 

Spices. 

Onion (big, Behar) 

Onion (Kaliaganj) 

Dry Chillis (Behar) (Old) 

7 (Now) 

Dry Chillis (Kaliaganj) (Old) 
J (New) 


Ilhupguri (P) 
Ditto 

Saffnuktaia (P) 

Ilhupguri (P) 
Ditto 

Samuktala (P) 

M 

Dhupguri (P) 

M 

Sarauktala (P) 
»» 

Dhupguri (P) 

»» 

Jalpaiguri 

Ahpurduar 

Dhupguri 

»» 

.Jalpaiguri 

»* 

Alipurduar 

Dhupguri 

»» 

Jalpaiguri 

#* • 

Dhupguri 
** • 

Jalpaiguri . 
Ditto 

Alipurduar 

Ditto 

Dhupguri 

Ditto 

Jalpaiguri 

Ditto 

Jalpaiguri 

Ditto 

Jalpaiguri 

Ditto 

Ditto 


'JALPAttURI 


Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated — 


gnd 9th 16th 23rd 30th 
Ba. nP. Bs. nP. Be. nP. Ha. nP. Rs. nP. R®- nP * I R®- np * I H«. 


2nd 

9th 



Bs. nP. 

Bs. nP. 

13*60 

N.S. 

13 -60 
N.S. 

NJ9. 

N.S. 

13*00 

10-26 

13*60 

9 • 60 

13 50 
N.S: 

13-00 

10-00 

12-00 

10-00 

12-00 

9*26 

N.S. 
N.S. i 

N.S. 

9-26 

: N.S. 

| N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

| N.S. 1 
. N.S. 

N.S. , 
N.S. , 

i N.S. 

N.S. 

j 23-60 i 

22 ■ 60 

i N.S. j 

! 22-00 | 

N.S. ; 

N.S. 

21 -76 
N.S. 

; 26-00 
^ N.S . 

26 00 
21 -00 

NiS. 

N.S. 

N.S, 

N.S. 

26-00 

N.S. 

26-00 

N.S. 

22 -00 
N.S. 

21-60 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

24* 00 
N.S. 

24-00 

20*00 

: n.s. 

N.S. 

; N.S. 

N.S. 

20 *26 
N.S. 

20-00 

N.S. 

27 -00 

27-60 

22*00 

22-00 

20 -00 

20-00 

20-00 

21-00 

100 -00 
106*00 

100*00 

106*00 

100-00 
106 00 

100*00 
| 1060C 


Last Averag 
month's Deo em , 
average. 


25 00 
» 20 * 75 


— N.S. 
N.S. 


100*00 

106*00 

100 00 
106*00 







SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


215 























SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


WHOM* prtoM 


Commodity. 


Cereal*. 


Name of market. 


Paddy (fine) (Kukutjali) . • Mat vara 


Naxalhari 


Paddy (medium) (Kalam) Matigara 


Naxalbarj 


Paddy (coaiw) (Daichi) Matigarn 

Naxalbari 

Bim (flno) (Bangahiliari) 

Kioe (medium) (Kalftm) . . ‘'' lto 

Bice (coerce) (Mixed ) •• " ,,to 

Maize Kulimpo.ig 

Darjiling 


PARJE ELWQ pwtm-r 111; 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated Last Average qi 

— month’# Deeembe, 

average. average. i960 

9th 16th 23rd oml * 


Hs. nP. 



i : - 

Ks. nP. I Rh. nP. Hs. nP. R«- nP. Rs. nP. Rh. nP 


.8. 12 00 


13 50 12 00 11.00 

12-75 N.S. .10-70 

12-50 11*60 10*26 

25-00 25*00 20*00 

2L 00 20 50 20-25 

19 00 19 00 18-50 

12-00 12-00 12-00 

14 00 14-60 14-00 


-00 11*26 
25 11*00 
26 9-76 


25 9*00 


Cardamom 


Kolimpong 


Kalimpong 
1 larjorling 


70-00 77-00 77-00 

76-00 77 00 75-00 

9-00 9 00 9-00 9-00 8 00 

11.00 10*00 10*00 9-00 9 00 


Potato and Vegetable*. 

Potato (table) ml round . 

Potato (table) white Nairn 
tal. 

Potato Seed Kalamati . 
Potato Seed Pilaiuati) 
Cabbage 


French Beans 


Cauliflower 


| tar jet-ling 


Halim pong 


Darjeeling 


28 00 20 >0 20-00 22 00 18 00 

N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. 

26-00 21-00 22*00 28-00 36*00 

24-00 19-00 N.S. N.S. N.S. 

18-00 18-00 18*00 17 00 17*00 

20*00 25-00 28-00 22*00 2700 


20*00 N.S. 
9*00 N.S. 


N.S. N.S. 


11-00 11*00 14*00 16-00 16*00 
30*00 35*00 36*00 32*00 28*00 


Hen (graded, medium) . . Darjeeling 

Milk and MUk Product e. 
iwt*, . - Sukiapokhri 


en. 2-37 2*37 2 37 2*00 


2*00 1 2 22 2*43 


180*00 180*00 180*00 180*00 180*00 180*00 180 00 1 


Sheep and Ooai. 

Fig (live wt. 11 *nde. each) - Naxalbari 


Pair 170*00 1 170*00 I 166*00 


156*00 164*00 102*60 




SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


217 


DARJE ELINA — wncld. 


1M1 


Commodity. 

Name of market. 

Unit. 

Collection week* ended Saturday, 

dated — 

Munthly 

average. 

Lent 

mouth'* 

average. 

Average of 
December, 
1960. 

2nd 

0th 

16th 

23rd 

30th 




Re. i*P. 

Re. UP. 

Re. i*P. 

Re. 4P. 

Re. nP. 

Ha. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Ha. nP. 

Mikh Cattle. 











„ (Yield 1 er. » day) . . 

Matigara 

Each 

75-00 

75-00 

85-00 1 

80-00 

100-00 

83 00 

78-75 

93-45 

tgalo (Yield 2 era. a day) 

Naxalbari 

•t 

100-00 

190-90 

195-90 

190-90 

216-00 

196-00 

192-50 

196-25 

Fibre. 











(Looee) (Garnet) 

Siliguri 

Md. 

20-00 

27-00 

27-00 

27-00 

27-00 

26-80 

’ 

30-00 

45-00 

Animal Fibre. 








1 



iW-wool White (Tibet) 

Kalimpong 

* Md. 

N.S. 

j N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

, N.S. 

| 210-00 

NJS W 

*.vrool— Grey (Tibet) 

Ditto 

99 

N.8. 

N.S. 

J N.S. 

N.S, 

N.& 

N.s. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Fruits. 







i 




inges 

Teeata 

1,000 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

35-00 

32-00 

33-50 

N.S. 

27-40 

Miscellaneous . 











rata 

Sonada 

Md. 

45 00 

40-00 

85-00 

35-QO 

30 00 

30-40 

38-00 

92-60 












218 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


Wholesale prices 


MALDA 


December i 








Collection week* onded Saturday, dated — 

Monthly 

. Last 
month's 

Aver, 

Deoe, 

19< 

Commodity. 

Maine of market. 

Unit. - 

2nd 

0th 

10 th 

23rd 

30th 

average. 

average. 




Kb. nP. 1 

Eta. uP. 1 

Ets. nP. 

■ 

4h. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rb. nl\ 

Ik 

Cereals. 











Paddy. 











Sahebkalom (fine) (now) 

Balianawabganj 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14 00 

14 00 

N.S. 

14-00 

N.S. 

X 


Hatanpurhat . . 

,, 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13*66 

N.S. 

13*50 

N.S. 

X 

Jh ulan (medium) (old) 

Balianawabganj 

»f 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14-02 

X 


Hatanpurhat . . 

»» 

14*76 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14-75 

14*90 

N 

(now) 

Balianawabgunj 

»» 

12*76 

13* 10 

13 50 

13 25 

13*25 

13*18 

11 78 

1 


Hatanpurhat . . 


12*76 

12 76 

13*50 

13 50 

13*00 

13*09 

12-50 

1 

Kalam (medium) (old) 

Balianawabganj 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14 75 

j 


Hatanpurhat . . 

tl 

14*76 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14 75 

14*8!) 

j 

(now) 

Balianawabgunj 

#• 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


13*50 

N.S. 

j 


Hatanpurhat . . 

tt 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13 -26 

13-25 

12-75 

13*08 

N.S. 

1 

Ohenga (medium) (new) 

Balianawabganj 

»t 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13*25 

2*75 

12*37 

12 79 

N.S. 

i 


Hatanpurhat . . 

t» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12*75 

N.S. 

12-25 

12*50 

N.S. 


Bhadoi (coarse) 

Balianawabganj 

t* 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12 12 

i 


Hatanpurhat . . 

99 

12 76 

N.S. 

13*25 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13*00 

13*04 


Bice. 








m 



Milled mixed -medium 

Englishbazar . . 

Md. 

24 60 

24*25 

23*75 

24 00 

N.S. 

24*12 

24*25 


(West-Dinajpur) (old) 











Ditto (medium) 

Ditto 

tt 

24 ■ 00 

24-00 

1 N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

24-00 

21-50 


1 

Ditto (medium) (now) 

Ditto 

it 

22*60 

22*00 

22*00 

22*00 

22 • 00 

22*10 

N.S. 


Barley 

Hatanpurhat 

it 

14*76 1 

14 00 

14 37 

13 56 

13 75 

14*08 

14 43 


Pulses whole. 








- 

17 IS 


Gram 

Hatanpurhat . . 

Md. 

10*00 

10 00 

14 37 

13*50 

13 50 

14*09 


Urid (green maskalai) 

Ditto 

»t 

21 50 

19 25 

17*50 

17 50 

10 75 

18*50 

21*71 


Urid (black kalokalai) 

Ditto 

>• 

20-00 

17*50 

10*76 

16*00 

16*00 

17 25 

20*60 


Spices. 








i 15-37 

N.S. 


Onion (desbi, small) (new) 

Balianawabganj 

Md. 

14*00 

13*75 

10-50 

17*12 

15*50 


(old) 

Ditto 

ff 

17*00 

16*00 

20*00 

20*00 

N.S. 

18*26 

13-02 


Oilseed. 









, 32-37 


Mustard (bold other than 

Hatanpurhat . . 

Md. 

32-00 

33*50 

33-50 

33 CO 

sai 

1 33-20 


yellow). 











Eggs. 

Hen (Ungraded) 

Hatanpurhat . . 

100 

13-60 

i 13-75 

J 13-7C 

; 14*00 

14 *0( 

) 13-81 

12-05 

— 









SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


219 


yytwlttal* Prices MALDA — condd. Deceember 1961 


Commodity. 

Name of market. 

! 

1 Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated — 

Monthly 

Last 

month's 

average. 

Average of 
December, 
1000. 

2nd 

0th 

16th 

23rd 

80th 

average. 




Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

It*. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

R*. up. 

R*. uP. 

Rs. nP. 

Poultry. 











fowl (live *t. 1 sr.) 

Ratanpurhat . . 

Eaoh 

2-60 

2-25 

2-25 

2-60 

2-75 

2*45 

2-31 

2-82 

Sheep and Goat. 











3oat Live-wt. 10 seers . . 

Katanpurhat . . 

Each. 

25 00 

22 00 

23 00 

23 00 

23 00 

23-20 

22-75 

22 00 

Fibre. 







1 

! 




Jute (cttpsulories) 

Ratanpurhat . . 

Md. 

23*87 

21 -66 

21-18 

10-02 

20 00 

21-24 

22-38 

N.K. 

Jute (olitories) 

Ditto 

ft 

20 -50 

20-37 

20- 00 

24 00 

27-50 

26-07 

20-40 

44-70 

Miscellaneous 











^iurAkhi-Chakki. 

Englishbazar . . 

Md. 

18-00 

1800 

17-00 

1700 

17 00 

17-40 

27-00 

15 40 







220 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


WfcoftMate prices 


'titottfuuodity. 


Cereals. 

Buddy (Fin#) Darikaaal 

am 

Do (Now) 

Paddy (Fine) PanihaU 
(Old) 
Do (Now) 

Kalatn (Mixed) (Old) 

Do (Now) 
Chenga and Kalarn (Old) 
Do (Now) 

Do (Old) 

Do (Now) 

Do (Old) 

Do (Now) 

Paddy (OoarHe) 

Rice (Fine) Darikaaal 
(Old) 

Do (New) 

Rice (Medium Panihati) 

Do 

Kalatn (Mixed) (Old) 

Do (Now) .. 
Chenga andKalara (Old) 
Do (Now) . . 

Do (Old) •• 

Do (Now) . . 
Do (Old) 

Do (Now) 

Rice(Coarae) Ivalam (Old) 
Do (Now) 

Do (Old) 

Do (Now) . . 


Pulses {Whole)* 
Urid (Black, nniall) 


Spices. 

Chillies (dry) (Kaltagaiij) 
Onion (deshi, small) . • 

Oil seed. 

Mustard (bold other than 
yellow). 


Fibres . 

Jute (Indian, Northern) 
Garaat — Olitorioue 
Capsularies 


Bides and Skins. 

Cow hide (Wot salted) . . 
Buffalo,. (Wot salted).. 
Goat skin (Wet salted) • • 

Miscellaneous. 

Betel Leaves (Common) 




WEST DINJUPUR BMwafcwm, 


1 


Collection weeks endod Saturday, dated— 

Monthly 

Average. 

of last 

Avorttu* 

Doreml* 

i960. 

Name of market. 

Unit. 

2nd 

oth 

16th 

23rd 

30th 

average. 

month 



Ra. nP. 

I to. |*P. 

Ra. uP. 

Rs. pP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Uh. up 

Dhankoii hat 

Md. 

N.S. 

14*50 

N.S. 

N.S 

N.S. 

14*50 

14*87 

N.S. 

Ditto 

llulurghat hat . . 

99 

N.S. 

13-25 

N.S. 

13-00 

N.S. 

1300 

N.S. 

N.S. 

11*75 

N.S. 

11*76 

13*08 

N.S. 

13-87 

10-5i 

N.8. 

Ditto 

Damdama hat . . 
Ditto 

Dhankoii hat 

Ditto 

Islam pur hat 

Ditto 

Dalkhola hat 

Di fcto 

99 

99 

99 

99 

99 

99 

N.S. 

13*25 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13*25 

N.S. 

13*75 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13-75 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

11*00 

N.S. 

11 *25 
N.S. 
11*75 
N.S. 
9*50 
N.S. 
0*50 

11*00 

N.S. 

10*87 

N.S. 

11*00 

N.S. 

9 25 
N.S. 
9*25 

11*00 

13 *25 
11*06 
13*75 
11*37 
N.S. 

9*37 

N.S. 

0*37 

N.S. 

13*25 

N.S. 

13*76 

N.S. 

13*62 

N.S. 

13*62 

N.S. 

11‘0I 

N.S. 

1U’7{ 

N.S. 

llMN 

N.S. 

K*8i 

N.S, 

8-3 

Dhankoii hat 

it 

m 

24*50 

25-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

24*07 

23*62 

N.S, 

Ditto 

Balurghat hat 

it 

N.S. 

23*25(0) 

N.S. 

23-25(0) 

N.S. 

22*50(0) 

N.S. 
22*50(0) 
21 *00(N) 

N.S. 

21 * 00(N) 

N.S. 

22-87(0) 

ai-oo(N) 

N.S. 

23*25(0) 

UH 

20-500 

Balurghat AHsembl- 

•» 

23*25(0) 

23-25(0) 

22-50(0) 

21 *00(N) 


23-00(0) 

21-00(N) 

23-25(0) 

20 500 

ing Centre. 
Damdama hat . . 
Ditto 

Dhankoii hat . . 
Ditto 

Islampur hat 

Ditto 

Dalkhola hat 

Ditto 

Islampur hat 

Ditto 

Dalkhola hat 

Ditto 

,* 

*» 

»» 

»» 

»» 

ii 

23*00 

N.S. 

23*00 

N.S. 

25-50 

N.S. 

25*50 

N.S. 

23*50 

N.S. 

23*50 

N.S. 

23*00 

N.S. 

23*00 

N.S. 

25 00 
N.S. 

25 • 00 

N.S. 

23*00 

N.S. 

23*50 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

23*50 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

21 *50 
N.S. 
22*25 
N.S. 
21*00 
N.S. 
24*00 
N.S. 
22*00 
N.S. 
22*00 

N.S. 

21-00 

N.S. 

22-00 

N.S. 

24-00 

N.S. 

24-00 

N.S. 

22-00 

N.S. 

22-00 

23*00 
21*25 
23*17 
22*12 
25*25 
24*00 
25*25 
24*00 
23*00 
22*00 
53 -50 
22*00 

23*25 

N S. 

22*69 

N.S. 

25.37 

N.S. 

25 37 
N.S. 

23 37 
N.S. 

23 37 
N.S. 

20' 
20 •( 
N.S 
10*1 

IK-' 

2H 

18- 1 

21- 

N.S 

20* 

N.S 

Dhankoii hat 

Md. 

10-25 

18-75 

14*00 

14*00 

10-00 

15*80 

N.S. 

15 ■ 

Dhankoii hat 

Ditto 

Md. 

104 *50 
18*50 

105*00 

18-50 

107-50 

17-25 

112 *00 
14*50 

130-00 

10-50 

111 *80 
15*25 

100 *00 
18*31 

79* 

li- 

Dhankoii hat 

Md. 

35 *50 

36 *50 

35 *00 

36 *00 

36-60 

35 *90 

36 *50 

as* 

Maharaja hat 

- 

36 *50 

36 *50 

36 *00 

36 *00 

35*50 

35 *80 

30 *50 

35* 

Balurghat hat 

Md. 

24.00 

21-50 

25*00 

25 *00 

20-00 
20-00 
20 -50 

24*90 
24*80 
25*40 
25 *40 
24 12 
24*12 

27 31 
27 *00 

46' 

45 

Damdama hat 


24*00 

21 *00 

25*00 

25* 00 

27 *26 

44 

Dhankoii hat . . 


24*50 

26*00 

25*00 

25*00 

27 *12 

44 

Maharaja hat 

»» 


25-00 

25*00 

25*00 

26*50 

24*00 

24-00 

25*62 

44 

Islampur hat . . 
Dalkhola hat . . 

»» 

00 

24 -00 
24 -00 

24-00 
24 *00 

24*50 
24 -50 

24 *50 
24£50 

25 *75 

46' 

Dhankoii hat 

Piece. 

10 *00 

11 *60 

12 *00 

11 *50 

12*25 

11*45 

20*20 

3*75 

10 *25 
16 *50 

12 

14 

Ditto 

Ditto 

ii 

,* 

16-50 

3-50 

18 00 
4 00 

20*00 

4-25 

24 *00 
4*25 

22 -60 
3*75 

3*06 

3 

Damdama liat 

1.000 

leaves. 

3 *75 

4*00 

3*75 

3-75 

4-00 

3*85 

3 *06 

6 


N.B. 


O^Old 

N-New 









SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


221 


=3 


prices COOCH BEHAR December 1961 


Commodity. 

Name of market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 

dated — 

Mont hly 

Last 
tm»nt Ids 

a\ entge. 

Av^iigc id 

DolWniber, 

i960. 

2nd 

0th 

10th 

23rd 

30th 

a\ oiagt-. 




Rs. |nP. 

Rs. id'. 

1U. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

it*. nP. 

Rs. ill 1 . 

Its. 111*. 

mm 

Cereals, 











ujdy Fine (Pakri) Old 

Pun di bar i 

Md. 

14-00 

14- 00 

14-00 

13-60 

N S, 

,3-88 

! 4 -60 


10 * Now 





8-75 

9 • 50 

10-00 

9-42 



Old 

Mathabhanga 

,, 

1500 

14-50 

14-25 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14-58 

15 50 

HfttH 

New 





9-00 

9-25 

10-00 

9 41 



Old 

Tufanganj 

,, 

13-26 

13-00 

N.S. 

N.S, 

N.S, 

13-12 

13-54 


New 





N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 



oH.lv Medium (Jobuu) Old 

Pundibari 


13-50 

13-25 

13-50 

13-25 

N.S. 

1 8 37 

!4 - 31 


111 J Now 





8-50 

9 • 25 

9*50 

9 ■ 08 


mM&fM 

Old 

Mathabhanga 

,, 

, 14-75 

14*00 

13-60 

13-25 

N.S. 

13-88 

15 26 

■mmnmim 

Now 




8-76 

9 • 00 

9*75 

9-16 



Old 

I'lifanganj 

,, 

f 12-76 

12 -60 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12 -02 

13 06 

14- (X) 

Now 





9-50 

9-25 

9-60 

9-42 


1 1 -00 

jddy Coarse (Depha) Old 

I'undibari 

ft 

1300 

13 00 

13- 00 

13-00 

N.S. 

1 3 -00 

13-75 

13-50 

Now 





8-26 

9 12 

9*25 

8*88 


11*00 

Old 

Mathubhanga 


14-00 

13-60 

13-00 

13-00 

N.S. 

13-37 

14-44 

12-92 

Now 





8-50 

8-87 

9-25 

8*87 


1 0 ■ 75 

Old 

Tufanganj 

»» 

12 00 

12 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12 -00 

12 02 

13-00 

Now 





9-25 

9-00 

9*25 

9-16 


10 5(> 

ice Fine (i reported) ( )Jd 

(Joooh Behar . . 


2ti 00 

20 -00 

25 -75 

15-75 

25-00 

26- 7(1 

25 -97 

N.S. 

. Now 





24-50 

X s. 

N.S. 

24-60 



Old 

Mathabhanga 

.. 

20 -00 

20 50 

20-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

26- 16 

26 60 

N.S. 

New 





20-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

20-00 



Old 

Omhata 


20-00 

25 75 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

25 - 87 

i!6-60 

N .S. 

Now 





N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 



nv Medium (imported)! >ld 

Cooch Behar . . 

/ # 

23 75 

23 76 

23 -25 

22-75 

22-26 

23 do 

24 33 

N.S. 

Now 





22-50 

N.S. 

N.S. 

22-50 



Old 

Mathabhanga 

ip 

24 -76 

25 -0 > 

24-60 

24 50 

N.S. 

24 -69 

24 87 

N.S 

Now' 





18-60 

N.S. 

N.S. 

18 60 



Old 

Dinhata 


26-00 

25-00 

25-00 

25-00 

N.S. 

25 00 

24 *02 

N.S. 

N<nv 





20-50 

21 00 

N.S. 

20*75 



loe < uaiHO (imported ) Old 

Cooch Behar . 

,, 

22 00 

22 00 

21-60 

20-00 

19*60 

21 00 

22 69 

N.S. 

Now' 

• 




20 • 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

20*00 



Old 

Muthabhanga 

Pi 

28 00 

23 00 

22 -50 

22-50 

N.S. 

22 75 

2312 

N.S. 

Now 





17-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

1 7*00 



a <>Jd 

Dinhata 


22-00 

22-00 

23-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

22 33 

22-44 

N.S. 

Now 





19-75 

19-37 

N.S. 

19 56 



h* hue (l**dvri) ( )ld 

< ooch Behar 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

25*83 

Now 






23-50 

22-00 

22-75 


21 *75 

Old 

Mathubhanga 


NS. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N S. 

25-83 

Now 






21 -00 

21-00 

21 -00 


21 • 00 

Old 

Dinhata 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

New' 






N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


22-43 

iict'Mediiiin (.losutt) Old 

( 'ooch Boliar . . 

>» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

24-75 

New 






21 • 50 

20-00 

20-75 


21-75 

Old 

MaUiablumga 

9 * 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

24*50 

Now 






20-00 

20-75 

20*37 


20-00 

Old 

Dinhata 

.. 

N.S. 

| N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

25-00 

25-00 

N S. 

26-25 

i Now 






N.S. 

19-75 

19-75 


21 -25 

l,CIMo «rho (Depha) Old 

( ooch Behar . . 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S, 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

23* 16 

Now 






19-25 

19-00 

19 12 


19*76 

Old 

Mathubhanga 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S 

Now' 






18-00 

18-00 

18 00 


N.S. 

Old 

Dinhata 

„ 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

23 16 

Now 






N.S. 

18-75 

18-75 


19*25 

' )ak M Whole.) 











^ Ordinary 

Cooch Behar . 

Md. 

30 -00 

30-00 

28 -00 

28 00 

26*75 

28 *55 

29 60 

28 36 

*ui, Rjg 

Ditto 


22 -50 

22 -60 


24 -00 

22-60 

23 10 

22 *00 

20 -8 

“n, Big 

Ditto 

- 

21-25 

21 00 


21*00 

20-50 

20-96 

20-87 

20 00 

Spices. 











K Oeshi 

Cooch Behar . . 

Md. 

N.S. 

24-00 

N.S. 

22-00 

17*00 

21 00 

N.S 

10 -10 

Bihar 

Ditto 

»» 

21 -00 

21 -00 

24 00 

20 -00 

19-00 

21 00 

21 75 

n oo 

^ Chiili e&i Bengal 

Ditto 


N.S. 

N.S. | 

N.S. 

100 -00 

102-00 

101 -00 

N.S. 

86 *60 

J Chflliae, Bihar 

Ditto 


106-00 



104*00 

97 00 

103 00 

106 -26 

92 00 












Sll'IM.KMKNT TO THE t'AlX'l TTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


Wholesale prices COOCH BEHAR — contd. December 1 


— ■- ""7 



Collection weeks ended Saturday, dated — 

Monthly 


Am. 

Peon 


oj market. 

Unit-. 







C miiiiuhIiI y. 






average. 

average. 



2nd 

9th 

10th 

23rd 

30th 


1 14 




Rs. nP. 

Rs. ill 3 . 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

its. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

K>?. 

Fibre . 











Jute (Middle) 

0»ocli Behar 

Md. 

24 *00 

28 *00 

N.S. 

24-00 

24*00 

25 *00 

24-87 

4 

Jute (Bottom) 

Jhnliata 

f 9 

26 -00 

32 -50 

20 -00 

24-76 

20-00 

20*85 

27-65 

4 

Oil Seed . 











Mustard 

pundibari 

Md. 

30 -(X) 

28 -00 

80 *00 

30 -00 

32-00 

30 00 

32 33 

3 


Tufaiigauj 


32 50 

32 60 

31 75 

30*00 

30-25 

31-40 

33-44 

:i 

Mustard Oil . . 

Cooeh Beliar . - 

,* 

97 00 

97-00 

100-00 

100 *00 

99-00 

98*00 

90 75 

ii 

Potato and Vegetables. 











Potato AsBttm Old 

(.Jooeh Behar 

Md. 

20 00 

22 - 00 

24-00 

16*00 

20-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

20-26 

20-00 

24-62 


Now 

Potato, Dari oeling Old 

Ditto 

,» 

2 1 • 50 

21-00 

18-00 

N.S. 

1 8 * 00 

N.S. 

10 00 

2110 

17-00 

23 00 


Now 

Potato, Bihar l dd 

Now 

Ditto 

ft 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.K. 

22 -.•>») 

N.S. 

17 00 

N.S. 

19-75 

N.. 


Tobacco. 






1 





Mat lliati, smod 

( \hm li Behar . 

Md. 

N-S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

98 15 

i 


Dinhata 

»* 

114-78 

110* 7k 

114-78 

114*78 

110 -78 

J17 68 

129- i s 

i 

Matiliaii, medium 

Coooh Bohar 

,, 

84 -78 

N.S. 

81 -78 

84-78 

84-78 

. 84 03 

91 7* 

i 


Dinhata 

»* 

84-78 

80-78 

^4- 78 

88-78 

85-78 

85 -38 

91 6 3 

i 

Mntihuri, course 

Coooh Bohar . 

tr 

70 - 78 

N.S. 

70 -78 

70-78 

70' 78 

77 53 

SI :»3 

i; 


Dinhata 

p» 

04-78 

04-78 

09-78 

09-78 

08 -78 

07 -58 

07-03 

i 

Jati, good 

Conch Bohar . 

ft 

N,S, 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N s 



Dnihatu 

t» 

109 -78 

159 -78 

119-78 

161 -78 

149-78 

1 50 -78 

177*28 

*■’ 

Jati, iiiediiuu 

Coocli Bohar . 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

.\.s 



Dinhata 

M 

Ill) -78 

119-78 

104-78 

101-78 

107 78 

111-38 

133 53 


Jatj, r<»aiso 

Coooli Beliur 

99 

N.S, 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S 



Duihutu 

P9 

71 -78 

74 -78 

04-78 

04 -78 

00 -78 

08 68 

7 t *2-' 

1 

Hide and Skin. 











(\>w (Wet and Salted) 

Cuooh Bohar . . 

Piece 

0 • 75 

7-0“ 

8 *25 

9-00 

9*50 

8-10 

0 -9 1 


Bullalo (Wot mid Salted) 

Ditto 

.t 

8-50 

9-00 

11 -50 

12-50 

1300 

10-90 

9 00 


Goat (Wet and Suited) . . 

a 

Ditto 


1*87 

2-00 

2-50 

8-00 

3-00 

2-47 

1 • 9 7 


Miscellaneous. 











Gur (Bheli) .. 

Couch Bohar . . 

Md. 

27-00 

27*00 

23-00 

23-00 

18-00 

23 00 

.6-50 

— 


Writers Buildings, 
Calcutta, the 3 1st January, 1962. 


N. C. RAY, 

Joint Director of Agricultural M«ik et 
West Bengal- 


223 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 

Wholtsale prices of agricultural and animal husbandry products (average quality) in ftufrw tta 

during dottuary 1SS2* 


— ■ r 




Datos. 



Monthly 

average. 

Average 

Average 

Commodity. 

Unit. 






of 

of 

5th 

12th 

19th 



Dooendier 

January 



25th 

— 


196). 

1901. 



Rh. up. 

Ks. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rs. HP. 

Rs. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Kh. nP. 

Otraals. 









Per Md. 

Hire (Fine) Bhasamanik 

75 Kg. 

40 05 

46 *05 

46 05 

46 05 


46 05 

46 50 

23 25 

Biro (Fine) Hupaal 

• t 

48 23 

48 23 

48 23 

48 23 

— 

48 23 

49 95 

24 -18 

Bine (Medium) Nagra 

«• 

44 18 

44 18 

44*18 

44*18 


44 -18 

45 *27 

21 -00 

Bice (Medium) Kalina 

»* 

45 23 

45 *23 

45 *23 

45 -23 


45 -23 

46 -26 

22 -56 

Bice (Coarse) West Bengal 

M 

40 -20 

40 -20 

40 20 

40 *20 

— 

40 20 

42 -21 

18*87 

Bice (Coarse) Orissa 


39 23 

39-23 

39*23 

39 23 

— 

39 23 

40 -68 

18-81 



2nd 

8th 

15th 

22nd 

29th 



Per 

Quintal. 

Wheat. (Bast Punjab) 

Quintal 

61 -62 

HI 62 

61 62 

01 -02 

01 -02 

61 *62 

61 -28 

37 51 

^Wheat (Govt. Stock) 


37 52 

37-62 

37 52 

37-52 

37 52 

37 -52 

37 *51 

41 53 

Atta 


41 63 

41 53 

41 -53 

41 *53 

41 53 

41 -53 

41 -53 

41 53 

Atta (Agmark) 


41 63 

41 53 

41 -53 

41 -53 

41 -53 

41 -03 

41 -53 

40*19 

Maida 

«» 

57 10 

57 *10 

57-10 

57*10 

57-10 

37 10 

01 -04 

55 -75 

8uji 


00 *28 

60 *28 

60*28 

60 *28 

60-28 

60 -28 

65 -66 

60*28 










Per Md. 

Sago (Cochin) Tapioca 

*? 

77 *70 

75 02 

75 -02 

75 -02 

75 02 

75 55 

77 *02 

24 00 

Globules. » 






s 






5th 

12th 

19th 

25th 

— 




Maize (Bihar) 

.. 

37 -52 

1 42 *88 

42*88 

38 *86 

— 

40 53 

86 31 

15 00 

Jowar (U.P.) 

»» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

42 *88 

41 60 

— - 

42 24 

37 38 

15 00 



2nd 

8th 

15 th 

22nd 

29th 


( 


Baiaon 

»• 

53 00 

j 53 *60 

53 *60 

53 -00 

53 60 

53 60 , 

.55 02 

17*00 

Barley 

♦» 

38*19 

41 54 

40 *20 

38*86 

40 20 

39 79 

! 

38 *69 

| 15 00 

Pulsts (whole). 

j 




- 




Per Md. 

Mung (Ordinary) U.P. 

Qnt. 

48 24 

50 92 

52 *26 

52 *26 


50 92 

47 10 

21 00 

Maaur (Big) Bhopal 

M 

52 20 

54 *94 

56*28 

56*28 

— 

54 94 

50 92 

19 *00 

Masur (Small) West Bengal 

»» 

44 22 

46 -90 

50-92 

50-92 

— 

48 -24 

43 14 

21 *50 

Maaur (Big Khari) Bhopal. . 

»» 

65 00 

68 *34 

69*68 

69 -68 

— 

68 *34 

62 *98 

19(H) 

Maaur (Small Khari) West 

1 1 

50 *28 

58 -94 

58 *94 

58 -94 


58 *27 

55 -74 

16 75 

Bengal. 

Und (Big) (Black) M.P. . . 

*» 

57 *02 

60 *38 

61 *72 

61 -72 

— 

60 *36 

57 -08 

18*50 

Ur T kl (Small) (Black) West 
Bengal. 

M 

53 00 

56 -28 

56 *28 

56*28 

— 

55 *61 

51 72 

17-00 

(Big) Bnat Punjab .. 


40 *23 

48 -91 

52*26 

52 *26 

— 

49*94 

44 -75 

1 18 50 

0ram (Small) West Bengal 

** 

40-80 

43 -45 

45 *56 

45 *56 

— 

43 *85 

38 *58 

17 *00 


’Controlled commodity. The prices of controlled commodities represent the rates at which licenced retailers got their supplies 
ruiw Government. 

^ 8^®No Supply. 










224 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


January 1§$j 



PalSM (%rholi)— tonpld. 
Matar (Big) V. P. 

Matar (Gota) 

Arhar (Bigfl U. P. 

Arhar (Small) West Bengal 
Khesari (Btfg) M.P. 

Khesari (Small) West Bengal 
Knlti (Homo Gram) 

Chora (Bagbati) , 

Data < spilt pals*}. 

Mung (Ordinary) U- P, 

M astir (Big) Bhopal 

MftBiir (Kmpll) West Bfigal 

Urid (Big) (Black) M. r* 

Urid (Small) (Black) West 
Bongal. \ 

Urid (fiig) (Whit*) M.JP. . 

Urid (Sma(l t White) UL 1’. 

! 

Gram (Big) East Punjab . 
Matar (Big) U. P. 

I 

Matar (GcAa) 

Arhar (Big) U. P. 

Arhar (Small) West Bengal 
Khesari (Big) M. P. 

Khesari (Small) West jBen gal 


Onion (Bombay) 
Onion (Desi) 

Onion (Madras) 

Garlic 

Ginger (Omen) 

Ginger (Dry) . . 

i 

Tamarind (with seed) 
Turmeric • (Erode) 
Turmeric (Madras) 
Chillies (Bihar) 


N. S.— No Supply. 























SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


225 


jpiMiMafc prtow. 


January 1892 


Commodity. 

M 

Dato«. 

Manthlv 

Average 

Average 

5th 

12th 

10th 

251 li 

— 

average. 

I Member 
1961. 

.January 

1961. 



Be. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. n P. 

Re. nP. 

R*. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Re. up. 

Rr. nl\ 

Spices — eontd. . 









Per Md. 

rhaiies (Tutioorin) 

50 Kg. 

127-30 

X.S. 

N.S. 

X.8. 


127 30 

128-48 

100-00 

Mack P©r*pr . . 

•• 

20ft 00 

206 • 00 

206-00 

206 • 00 

— 

20600 

206 (K) 

192-50 

; 









Per 50 Kg. 

AniPeoH (Mouri) (Cleaiied) 

M 

HO 30 

60-30 

60-30 

60-30 

— 

60-30 

61 37 

67-00 

Anweod (Mouri) (Unrlaaned) 

• * 

40-20 

40-20 

40-20 

40*20 

— 

40-20 

41-80 

47-00 










Per 50 Kg. 

Butnlnut (Aloppi) 

M 

321-00 

321 - 60 

314-00 

3(»B -20 

— 

lie 57 

320-04 

*200*00 

Bdduut (Penang) Split 
Medium. 

99 

336-00 

336 • 00 

335-00 

336-00 

— 

S36 00 

330 ■ 06 

220*00 

Bntdmit (Singapore) Mfedium 

9* 

328*30 

328-30 

335-00 

335 00 

— 

isi er. 

337-68 

216-00 

Betelnut (Sundried elided) 

r 

281-40 

241-40 

288-10 

288*40 


284 • 82 

276-57 

176 00 

Kathn (Pule) . . ; 

99 

241 00 

241-20 

241-20 

241*20 

— 

141 IS 

227-48 

160-00 

Katha (Singapore) 

99 

536*00 

536-00 

531 -00 

531*00 

-p 

$33 50 

536-00 

N.K. 

Kathrt (•Jnnakpur) (BliieU) 

#» 

482 ■ 40 

482-40 

482-10 

482 40 


♦82-40 

482-40 

400 00 

CWriimder (Dhrtnia) ('Vanned 

M 

56*28 

56 • 28 

56 28 

56 ■ 28 

■ - 

56-28 

02 44 

flnoft 

I'nmiuider (Uhaiiia) 
(Um;lo»uiod). . , 

l(tK- 

20-48 

20-48 

20-48 

2t»43 

- 

20 46 

28 17 

40 -(H) 

L'limanum (Darchiui) 

29 06 

20-96 

20 • 06 

2V-06 

- 

20-96 

29*10 

N.K. 

• 









Per 1 Kg. 

Cl* IVOR (Zanzibar) 

l Kg. 

30 06 

31 03 

32-10 

32 ■ 10 

- 

31-54 

30 98 

22 00 





i 





Per 60 Kg. 

Arran (Big) 

50 Kg. 

46 • 58 

45-58 

46 • 68 

46 • 58 

— 

45-68 

47 30 

37 50 

Ajwnn (Small) 

99 

30-82 

30 82 

30-82 

30*82 

— 

30 82 

20-10 

29-00 

nimmiiiHeecl (Zeera) (Cleaned) 

99 

134*00 

134 00 

134 00 

1 34 • 00 

— 

134 00 

125-38 

114*00 

f, ’immiiiHoed (Zeera) 
(Undeanod). 

99 

100*50 

100-50 

100-50 

100*50 

— 

100*50 

91-86 

87 *00 

Blank Cummin (Kala fceora) 

lit 

08-34 

68-34 

68-34 

68*34 

-r 

68-34 

65-66 

73-00 

^folhineed 

*» 

46-00 

46-00 

46 - 90 

46-00 

— 

46-90 

44-06 

45-00 

Mvndjalan (West Bengal) . . 

Qnt. 

1*3 -40 

13-40 

13-40 

13-40 

— 

13 40 

13-40 

5-00 

^lamun (Elaohi) (Large) 
Kalunpong. 








« 

Per Qnt. 

99* 

230-48 

235 84 

226 - 12 

225-12 

— 

229-14 

233 16 

241-20 

^vtlamoii (Elaohi) ^fimall) 

■yaoro. \ 









Per I Kg. 

l)Kg. 

21 40 

23 54 

10-26 

10-26 

— 

2! 14 

20 9 

21*40 

(Jaiphal) 










^ ( J aitri) . . 

99 









^ — 











N,S,*No Supply. 




SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


WltolMftto prtoM. 


January 1||; 


Commodity. 


potato and VogotaMot. 

Potato (Benin Round) 
Potato (I>«shi Nainital) 
Potato (Hihar Nainital) 
Potato (Bihar Round) 
Swoot Potato 
Kweot Pumpkin 
Brinjal (Round) 

Brinjal (Long) 
Bittorgourd (Uchhc) 
Bittergourd (Karela) 
Bottlogourd 
Kacbu 


Radial) (Denlii) 
Cucumber 
Green Plantain 


Barba ti 

Papaya (Green) 

Green Chill ion (Bihar) 
Cabbage (Local) 
Cauliflower (Local) 
Peaa (Local) 


French Beans (Bihar) 

Tomato (Local) 
Carrot (Local) . . 
Spinach 

Beetroot (Local) 
Turnip (TJ. P*) 


Dates. 


Unit. 


10 Kg. 
10 Kg. 


Qnt. 


Qnt. 


100 


Qnt. 


5th 


100 

Qnt. 


Re. nP. 


N.K. 

3 16 
3*02 
2-68 
32 16 
21 44 
37 -51 
26-80 
42-88 
44-22 
26 80 
26-80 


1 00 
8 00 


37 51 


N.8* 


107 -20 


12th 

19th 

25th — 

i 

H-j 

A 

Rs. 11 P. 

c 

A 

X 

c 

N.6. 

2 61 

2 • 55 1 — 

2-68 

2-41 

2 41 — 

2 55 

N.K. 

N.K. — 

2*55 

2-14 

2*21 — 

26 • 80 

26-80 

26 80 — 

21-44 

21-44 

2144 — 

37-51 

37 51 

37 51 — 

26 80 

32-16 

26-80 — 

42-88 

44 -22 

53-60 — - 

44 22 

53 60 

58-96 — 

26-80 

26-80 

26-28 — 

26 -80 

26-80 

26 80 — 

1 25 

2-50 

2 50 — 

8-00 

10-00 

N.K. — 

3 -00 

3 00 

3 00 — 

N.S. 

N.K. 

N.K. I — 

) 26 -80 

32 16 

32 16 

) 53 -60 

80 -40 

80 40 — 

[ 16-08 

16-08 

16 08 — 

) 20 -00 

25 -00 

25 00 1 — 

26-80 

32-16 

36 16 — 

[) 58 96 

67 -00 

67 00 — 

4 21 44 

21 -44 

21 44 1 — 

1 32-16 

32-16 

32 16 — 

4 21 44 

26-80 

26 80 — 

18 42 -88 

42-88 

42 -88 1 — 

)8 16 -08 

16-08 

16-08 — 


1 Monthly 
’1 average. 

Average 

of 

Deoembor, 

1961. 

Awth^ 

nf 

JftniiHry 

11)1*1. 

Ra. 11 P. 

Ra. ill*. 

Hs r ,p 



Per M<i 

I 2-58 

N.K. 

N.S. 

1 2 66 

4-23 

• • 7.) 

1 2-78 

2-82 

s no 

2-39 

4-23 

7 1:* 

I 28 14 

25-19 

7 00 

I 21 44 

32-69 

(Mill 

1 37 -51 

37 -52 

r» 5(1 

1 28 14 

28 -50 

3 25 

1 45 39 

46 -36 

IS 50 

1 49 -75 

56 -81 

20 50 

I 26 67 

•21-81 

4-0) 

I 26 -80 

27 -87 

Per 100 

1 -81 

1 *87 

2 3d 

I 8 •«« 

4-80 

(> h 

1 i oo 

2-70 

3 -W 


• 

Per Md 

1 37 51 

32 16 

S (N 

I 27 98 

25 -72 

7 (N 

1 67 00 

86 -83 

•J(l 5( 

1 17 42 

28-36 

4 7i ; 

1 22 50 

20 -00 

14-2. 

1 30 -37 

N.K. 

15 •« 



Prr Qn 

1 76 04 

87 -94 

75 -0 



Pur 

I 21 44 

34-66 

7 0 

I 33 49 

60 -92 

10 t 

I 24 12 

24 -65 

3*j 



IVr Qp 

1 42 -88 

64 -32 

3-‘ 

1 16*08 

t 24-12 



N.8. —No Supply, 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


VMtfeMlriNfcM. 


Commodity. i I Unit, 



MMMVy 1 HT 


. I Average Average 

Monthly of of 


averse. December January 
1901. 1901. 


Re. nP. r Rs. n*. I R*. ntf. r R». nP, r R*. n tf. I Re. fiP. I Ha. U P. R». nP. 


Fruit* (FmH). 

Banana (Sabri) 

Banana (Singapore) 

Banana (Chftpipa) • . 

}rang« (Nagpur) 

)rango (Darjeoling) 
Jozambiquo (Sweet Limq) 
’meappli* (Krw) 


ipple (Kashmir) 


Per Md. 

122 *50 


*m<’ (Sour) . . • 

'upnva (KipiJ) 
'omeprauate (Bedana) 
Woanut (Chv(Ti) 


400-00 100 00 


Fruits (Dry). i 

hnonds (iiv shell, Chaikaa* 50 ku. 

No. 1). 

JmondR (mi: shell, Chatfian 
No. 2). 

UmuiidH (Without slpdl) 

(Iran). 


442 *20 I 208 00 


375 *$0 37 4 *20 I 375 20 19K 00 


77 ^ 00 


777 00 352 00 


0,, “ttnut (with shell) 100 
(HtiiKttl) Medium. J 


,|J P'« (Tiptur) .. 50 kg. 

-upm (Andamans) . . ,, 


154 10 


154 JO — 


34 NO 20 -75 

Per Md. 
270 01 92 50 

7* 09 58 00 


’ r ° l, i‘dnut (Perorticatec^) 

( Peshawar) old j . 
(PcMhuwar) new ; 
(in shell) j , 

^luut (Kernel) 

(Kernel) ; . 

A pr»('f)t 


485 50 


200 32 h 


4U 83 j 


>- 120*00 


p »na,.hio (Pita) 


1605 1005 I 1605 10-05 


Per Seer 

n ou 


X.S.»iKo supply. 






228 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 

— j«mi ary iHt 



N.S.-No Supply. 












SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 229 



Commodity. 

Unit. 

Dates. 

2nd 

9th 

16th 

23rd 

30th 





Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rh. nr. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Milk an* Milk-Prat ucls 







— ■contd. 







Ohe» Agmurk (Madras) 

Qnt . 

603 -00 

603 00 

003 -00 

603 -00 

003 00 

CliannH 

Md. 

34-00 

33 -50 

37 -31 

20-12 

22 *30 

Pith. 







Katla 

Qnt. 

294 -80 

294 -80 

294 -80 

321 -00 

321 00 

Holm 

9 9 

281 -40 

294 -80 

294 -80 

321 -00 

321 -00 

HilrtO 

»t 

294 -80 

294 -80 

208 00 

208 -00 

208 00 

Oungii (Bagdu) 


321 -60 

321 -00 

321 -00 

321 00 

321 00 

Bwkii 

f* 

294 -80 

294-80 

294 80 

294 -80 

308 *20 

Inditn Salmon 

99 

214 -40 

214-40 

214 40 

214 -40 

214 40 

Mull'd (Bhangan) 

M 

268 • 00 

268-00 

241-20 

241-20 

241*20 

Punizush Butter tieh 

> * 

294-80 

294 • 80 

208-00 

208-00 

241 -4(> 

i 

Km 

ft 

348-40 

348 40 

321-00 

308 • 20 

321 BO 

Mujiiii 

9 9 

34S-40 

375-20 

30K 20 

335 no 

348-40 

Dry llslt. 







Hmnlmv huek 

Qnt. 

80-00 

90-00 

90-00 

90-00 

92-00 

Rer-lit i (Big ) • 

i » 

70-00 

N.S. 

75-00 

75-00 

75 -(H) 

It-' kt. (Small) 

99 

65-00 

76-00 

65-00 

05 - 00 

05 00 

Piawn^ (wifli Shell) 

M 

55-00 

60-00 

60-00 

00 ■ 00 

65-00 

Pi awn -i (without Shell) 

f » 

120-00 

120-00 

100 00 

100-00 

120-00 

8h«tp and Qaat. 







Uottt (10 seers net wieght 

Per head 

39-00 

38-00 

38 00 

37-00 

37*00 

ol meat ). 

ISli»>ep (10 -eers Net weight ol 

#a 

34 • 00 

36-00 

35-00 

34-00 

34 00 

meat). ' 







Milch Cattta. 







(n» 1 11c y.eld of 3 seers 

Per head 

225-00 

225-00 

225 00 

225-00 

225-00 

i a day) 

i f mv- (milk yield of 4 seers 


325-00 

325-00 

325-00 

325*00 

325-00 

U (1)1 \ ), 

(milk yield of 6 sofra 


400 • 00 

425*00 

425 00 

425 • 00 

425-00 

[ a day). 

[Buflalo (milk yield of 6 soars 


450-00 

450-00 

450-00 

450-00 

450 00 

! aday). 

iDutfalo (milk yield of 8 seers 


600-00 

600-00 

600-00 

600-00 

600-00 

t 6 day). 







Cattle Fatftfar. 







Vhp »t Bran .. 

I 55 kg. 

14-74 

14-74 

14-74 

14*74 

14-74 

tl( * Bran 

*« 

4-07 

4-45 

4-45 

4*45 

4 45 

Uhusi (Cliuni mixed) 

•> 

13-26 

14-74 

14-74 

14*74 

14-74 

^ri Bhuftl . . 

M 

12-54 

12-54 

12-54 

13*25 

12-64 


January IMt 


Monthly 

average. 



Average 

of 

•January, 
1 9 ( 11 . 


Rb. np. I Rh. nP. I Rh. nP. 


603 00 
30 60 

300 16 
302 -84 
27 H -72 
321 00 
299 -48 
214-40 
251 92 
264-90 
320^ 64 
343-04 

88-40 
73 • 76 
67-00 
60 * 00 
112*00 

37-80 
34 >40 

225-00 
325*00 
420-00 
450-00 
600 -00 

14-74 

4-37 

14-44 

12-68 


603 -00 
32 50 

335 (HI 
341 70 
294 -80 
341 -70 
304 70 
221-10 
288-10 
294-80 
368-50 
482 40 

87-50 

70-00 

72-50 

66-25 

135-00 

37-25 
35 26 

218-75 

300-00 

387-50 

450-00 

568-75 

• 

12-88 

4-07 

13-28 

12-72 


Per Md. 
220 OO 
32 00 

90 -00 
95 00 
89 -00 

82 -00 
70 -00 
78 00 
100-00 
124 00 
136-00 

80-00 

70-00 

N.»S. 

60-00 


37-20 

35-00 

225-00 

276-00 

375-00 

420-00 

470-00 

8 - 10 * 

2-80 

9-90 

9-10 


N.S.—No supply 












230 


RTTPPT.EMBNT TO THE CALHtTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1442 




WhtlmU prtoM. tammy IK] 


Commodity. 


Dates. 

Monthly 
average. 1 

Average 

of 

lecember, 

1901. 

A \ pj’ityj, 
ot 

•IttUliMjt 

1991. 

Unit. - 

2nd 

9th 

16th 

28rd 

aoth . 



fU. *1». 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

R«. nfl. 

Rs. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Rh. up. 

eatu* rmutt 






4 

< 


Per Md. 

KhpHun Bhusi (('hunt muled) 

65 kg. 

14-74 

14-74 

11-74 

14-74 

1«UB 

iai -18 

15-87 

10 lu 

(Irani Chuni 


14 74 

20 - 08 

20 ■ 0JK 

20 118 

25 Ip 

20- 38 

17-90 

1 *3 • 20 

Arlmr Bhusi (('hunt mixqfi) 

„ 

16-2B 

19- 19 

19- 10 

19-10 

19-90 

lHt-74 

1 0 • 80 

12 m 

Mun^ r Chuni 

.. , 

14-74 

10-23 

10 20 

10-23 

17-7fe 

J 

10*23 

14 83 

1 :t 4o 

Poddy straw . . • • 

Md. 

2-0J> 

2 • 02 

2-02 

2 -02 

2-62 

2* 02 

2-40 

2 .ill 

(Jrotm (lroH.4 

»t 

2-25 

2 • 25 

2 25 

2 26 

2-26 

2' 25 

2-77 

2 7,1 1 

Oil aa^t. 


5th 

12th 

19th 

26th 

— ■ 




Groundnut (tmdeporti f, attBd) 

Qnt. 

75-02 

77 • 70 

80 38 

83-06 

— , 

7w f oa 

75 02 

77 7s 

Castor 

1 

07 • Ofj 

08 -3t 

08-32 

68-32 

— 

08* 15 

05 03 

til 71 

Linseed (small) B har • • 

»4 

r:i ot 

83-72 

85-73 

80-7* 

— 

84*81 

82 - 98 

• 

79-77 

IM (SiHnmumi) 

t* 

121-01 

128-25 

132 0* 

1 33 - 94 

— 

1 29i 1 8 

116-01 

139 I'll 

Mustard (yelliow) fJuJrat . . 

r» 

171 K# 

1 1 T • f. 9 

117 H* 

1241- AT 

__ 

118*50 

117-88 

1 24 • 25 

Mustard (yi'llbw) U.P. ' • • 

ft 

109 8( 

109-85 

112 53 

117 H* 

— 1 

112*06 

110 38 

107 -M 

Ka. (I*.P.) 


102-48 

101-81 

103-83 

104 4» 

r 

103? 15 

101-50 

103 4> 

Kaji(M.P.) 


i«i -si 

104-lf* 

104-49 

103-16 

— t 

103»41 

101*60 

104 -Id 

Loin* (End Punjab) 

f f 

104-40 

109-85 

105-8$ 

108-51 

— ’ 

107* 17 

104-36 

»(d » 

Toria iKost Huri»Bi') 

• • 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

101 81 

— 

101 81 

N S. 

103*37 

Mahua ♦ • j • • 

f f 

82-38 

83-72 

1 

85-7$ 

87 Of 

— . 

84 * 74 

82- 14 

74 H. 

Oil. 







■ 



Castor 

Qnt. 

1 00 ■ 00 

1 04 ■ 00 

104-00 

100 -00 

— 

103*50 

1 50 00 

ltd 90 

j 

Oroundnu* . • • * ' 


190-00 | 

199-00 

200 00 

209 00 


202*1 60 

200 t 0 

219 

LsiseO'l (Vi »vt Be r i^0 • • 


19 >00 

194 O0 

190-00 

190 00 

k i 

191*00 

4h9*nO I 

194 Jft 

Til . . 

M 

239-00 

250-00 

200-00 

205 • 00 

_ I 

254 | 60 

230*00 

272 7.» 

Coroanut (Corbin) 

M v 

248-00 

254-00 

258-00 

258-00 

- t 

254)60 

254 • 40 

291 25 

Muatard (Went Bengal) 

M 

250 -O0 

200-00 

274-00 

270-00 

— 

, 266 00 

247-40 

259 77) 

Must a ni (Aumoik) 

ft 

252 00 

208-00 

270 00 

272 00 

— 

207-00 

248-80 

77 

Mahua (West Bengal) 

” 

212-00 

215 00 

220 00 

220 00 


210; 75 

212*80 

2IM) »*« 

oil cant. 







< 



Castor 

Qnt. 

25 45 

25-4$ 

25-45 

25-44 

— 

26 • 46 

20-52 

24 44 

Oroundnu t 

»• 

34*14 

35- 14 

II 

35-50 

\ 

36 *08 

34*09 

39 4 h 

Linseed (West Bengal) 

»* 

38-85 

42-7$ 

42-87 

42-87 

i 

41 » 84 

43-00 

37 • »l 

Til . . 

99 

30-17 

37-51 

37-51 

37-51 

— 

37*17 

30 ■ 57 

48 - Ik 

Mustard (Welt Bengal) . . 

99 

29-47 

29-47 

29-47 

28-80 

— 

29*30 

32 • 08 

30-4’ 

Mahua 

99 

11*30 

11-39 

11 39 

11-30 


11*39 

1 1 80 

13 **1 


N.S.«*No supply 











SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


231 


yyfea total* price*. January 1962 






Dates. 




An era;?.' 

Average 

Cujmmodit V. 


... 





Monthly 

of 

of 

unit. 






average. 

December, 

. January 



5 th 

1 2 tJi 

19th 

:0 th 

— 


1901. 

1961. 



Re. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nT». 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

its. up. 

Rs. nP. 

Tobacco. 










Mrttib.o’J (medium) 

Qnt . 

290-00 

300 00 

302 00 

302 • 00 

— 

300-00 

272-80 

1 5 1-50 

la> > i"" * • 

99 

290-00 

290-00 

290 00 

290-00 

— 

290 -00 

. >n on 

♦09 • 50 

Hinpl - 1 milium) 

9 « 

440-00 

440-00 

440-00 

140 00 


140 • on 

III 00 

5 IS ■ 50 

j^ir- Tolwcro .. 

»» 

900-00 

8(H) *00 

800-00 

800 (VO 


800 • (VO 

soo- OO 

800 -O0 

a.wintf (Khaim) 

ft 

258-00 

208 • 00 

208-00 

208-00 

— 

208-00 

235-84 

100- 76 

Lac. 









Per Md. 

Sr , rk la« (S. l\ Pnkur plum) 

Qnt. 









Stickle (C 1 . V. IViUs) 

M 

94-00 

94-00 

91 -00 

88-00 

— 

91 -75 

92 ■ 80 

42 25 

M,rk U*‘ (ManMnmi Hum) 


123-00 

1 23 • 00 

120-00 

115 00 

— ■ 

120 -25 

123-00 

50 - 50 

||> 1 Kiismi No. 1) 

-- 

177-00 

177*00 

172-00 

100 00 

— 

173-00 

175 SO 

84 • 25 

||| « ( Wan 1*1 hum Baysai.i) 

.. 

147-00 

145-00 

139-00 

139-00 


142-.. <> 

! 17-00 

72 60 

T N. Shell at* - • 

’* 

l 58 ■ 00 

155-00 

1 50 00 

145-00 

— 

152-00 

155-20 

08-50 

Fibre. 

* 










■hit.* ( 1 »« *1 *a r) (-langh) 

Qnt. 

59 -50 

07 00 

05-04 

07 00 

- 

07 .> i 

08-59 

144 -(VI 

.Till * * (Indian P *d ) (garnet ) 

»> 

71-00 

71 -00 

09 06 

09 • 00 

- 

70 33 

09 ■ 1 1 

148-02 

Mm .1 1 .«ln 1 *:•« 1 

.lilt,*' (Indm n Northern) 

n 

77-70 

75-02 

73 08 

77-70 

. . 

70 • 02 

79-84 

150-37 

((I. i .it ) .Jnliungun. 

.1 .to (Indian Mid lie) 

*» 

75*02 

72*34 

71 -00 

72-34 



72-07 

75 - 55 

1 >2 • 36 

hi (not). 

Jute ( \ssam Middle) 

99 

87 • 08 

84 -40 

83 -00 

84 40 

— 

84 73 

87 *31 

168 -41 

.lute (Indian Middle) 


85 -74 

83 -06 

81 -72 

83 (VO 

— 

83 -39 

85 -90 

168-07 

(Northern). 

•lute (I)esi Qnrsat) 24- 

99 

83 *06 

80 *38 

79 -04 

83 *00 



HI -38 

85 01 

154 *97 

lVir/aniis. 

Must, a (< kirsat l Desln 

99 

09 *oo 

80*38 

08 32 

72 34 

— 

72 05 

72 *00 

145*27 

Hitnli 

9f 

09 00 

07 *00 

65 64 

08 -32 

— 

07 -05 

70*19 

144 07 

Sana hemp (loose) (Benares) 

Md. 

35 00 

30-00 

30 00 

30 -00 

— 

35 75 

39 -00 

37 -00 

Suim-hcmp (loose) (green) . . 


40 00 

41 *00 

41 -00 

41 -00 

— 

40 75 

40 (VO 

13 -00 

Agniark Sann-hcmp (balod) 

99 

100 00 

190-00 

170 00 

170-00 

— 

172 50 

JOO 00 

220 00 

(Benares No. 1). 

Agmork Sann-hemp (baled) 

99 

220 00 

230-00 

230 *00 

230*00 

__ 

227 *50 

220 -00 

300 -00 

1 green undressed). 

Agimirk Sann-homp (baled) 

99 . 

215-00 

220 -00 

220 OO 

220 (XV 



218-75 

215*00 

250 d)0 

(green tow). 

( 









Animal Fibrt. 










Hr is tie 

Lb. 

50 00 

50 00 

50 -00 

50 *00 

— 

50 *00 

50 -00 

48 *95 

tail 

Seer 

18 00 

18*00 

20 00 

20 -00 

— 

19-00 

18 -00 

8 56 

mane 

ft 

16*00 

16*00 

16*00 

16-00 

— 

16-00 

14 -40 

6*42 


N.S.»No supply. 














232 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, l%2 


Whokulc price*. January mg 


('nin. nudity. 

Unit. 

Dates. 

Monthly 

Averajhfc 

of 

Average 

of 


5th. 

12th. 

19th. 

i 

26th. 

— 

average. 

December, 

1961. 

January 

1961. 



Rm. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. Pn. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Hid# and Skin. 










( 'ovv (wot , sal tod) 

ion 1 L>h. 

110-00 

110-00 

110*00 

125 00 

— 

113 76 

111*80 

107-00 

Buffalo (wet, salted) 

»» 

70 *00 

70 00 

65-00 

75 00 

— 

70 -00 

74 -00 

83-50 

Coat 

Shoep 

, 100 
pieces 

275 -00 

175 00 

275 00 

175*00 

275-00 

175-00 

300 00 

175-00 

l 

1 

281 25 

175 -00 

242 -00 

200*00 

275-00 

237 -60 

Miscellaneous. 


3rd. 

10th. 

17th. 

24th. 

1 

Slat. 


! 


Sugar Cane 

100 

6 00 

5-00 

5 -00 

4-60 

3 50 

4-80 

6 00 

3-50 



5th. 

12th. 

19th. 

26th. 

— 




Sugar (Indian) medium 

Qnt. 

107 -20 

106-86 

105 86 

106-53 

— 

H06 61 

107 *73 

112-12 

(lur (iUx li) II. I*. medium 

>» 

52 26 

53 -60 

50 92 

45 50 

— 

50 68 

50 -31 

44-89 



3rd. 

10th. 

17 th. 

24 th. 

31st. 


• 

Per Md. 

(Jut- (Akin) 

»» 

54-94 

53-60 

52 26 

48-90 

48*24 

51 -18 

51 67 

17 50 

1 >1 il da. ( H y drogoi i at ed 

Groundnut oil). 

4 kg. 

13 13 

13 13 

13 13 

13 45 

13 45 

13 25 

13 13 

13 28 

Jicisoi ( H ydrogoiuitod 

Groundnut. oil). 

- 

12 24 

12 24 

| 12*24 

12.24 

12*24 

12*24 

12-24 

11 77 

Fat mixture 

Md. 

79 00 

1 79 00 

82-00 

82 00 

82 00 

80 -80 - 

85 -00 

74 (Ml 

Betel Loaf* 

1000 

6 00 

6 25 

6 25 

6 25 

• 26 

6 20 
i 

6 26 

9 00 

Firewood (cinnmon — old) . . 

Firewood (common -now) 

Tart. load 
of 15 mo's 

»* 

44 00 

N.S. 

! 45 00 

43 00 

1 46-00 

j 44-00 

45 00 

43 00 

4$ 00 

44 00 

45 20 

43 50 

44 -00 

N.S. 

44 50 

Firewood (split- old) 

«* 

45 00 

; 47 00 

i 48 -00 

47 00 

48 00 

47 -00 

45-00 

46 50 

Firewood (split— -new) 

** 

40 00 

45 00 

46 00 

| 

45 00 

46 00 

44-20 

40 00 


1 

Bonemoal 

Manures (animal) 

Metric 

Tonne. 

„ 

250 00 

250 -00 

250-00 1 

250 00 

250 00 

250 00 

250-00 

245 09 

Flattened Rice (Chira) 

Qnt. 

91 12 

91 12 

91 *12 

91 -12 

91 12 

91-12 

91 12 

34 00 

Parched Rio© (Muri) 


107 -20 

107 -20 1 

107 -20 

107 -20 

107 20 

107 -20 

111 -22 

38 00 



2nd. 

9th. 

16th. 

23rd. 

30th. 




Chiratn 

Md. 

63 00 

63 *00 

63 -00 

65-00 

67-00 

04*40 

63 -00 

40 00 


N.8.=No supply. 


N. C. RAY, 

Joint Director oj Agricultural Marketing , West Bengal 


Wkitjsrs’ Buildings, Calcutta, 
The 12th March 1962 . 












SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


253 


CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR THE IMPROVE- 
MENT OF CALCUTTA 

Notice under section 43 of the Calcutta Improvement 
Act, 1911 (Bengal Act V of 1911) 

SCHEME NO. XC (PARK AT KALIGHAT ROAD) 

1. It is notified under section 43 of the Calcutta 
Improvement Act, 1911, that a General Improvement 
Scheme, for the purpose of improving the area as 
regards light, air, ventilation, etc., and for the provi- 
sion of recreational facilities by providing for a Park 
in the Kalighat Road area, to be known as Scheme 
No. XC (Park at Kalighat Road) has been framed by 
the Board of Trustees for the Improvement of 
Calcutta in the above area in Ward No. 67 of the 
Corporation of Calcutta. 

2. The Boundary of the area comprised in the 
scheme, shown within red verge on plan, is as 
follows : 

On the North: Starting from the south-western 
corner of premises No. 61/1, Harish Chatter jee 
Street, running eastwards in a straight line to 
the north-western corner of premises No. 22A, 
Gobinda Ghosal Lane; from this point running 
eastwards along the northern boundary of 
premises No. 22A, Gobinda Ghosal Lane to its 
north-eastern corner. 

On the East: From this point running south 
eastwards in a straight line to the south- 
eastern corner of premises No. 43, Kalighat 
Road; from this point running southwards in 
a straight line to the south-eastern corner of 
premises Nos. 49B, 49C, 49D, Kalighat Road. 

On the South: From this point running west- 
* wards in a straight line for a distance of 128 ft. 
to a point on the southern boundary of the 
same premises situated at a distance of about 
25 ft. from the south-eastern corner of 
premises No. 53B, Kalighat Road; from this 
point running westwards along the southern 
boundary of premises Nos. 49B, 49C, 49D, 
Kalighat Road to the south-eastern corner of 
premises No. 53B, Kalighat Road; from this 
point running north-westwards in a straight 
line to the south-western corner of premises 
No. 49C, Harish Chatterjee Street. 

On the West: From this point running north 
wards in a straight line to the starting point. 

3. The particulars of the scheme, a plan showing 
the scheme area and a statement of the lands pro- 
posed for acquisition and for levy of betterment fee 
may be inspected at the office of the Trust at 10 
Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, between the hours 
11 a.m. and 3 p.m. on weekdays and between hours 
11 a.m. and 12-00 p.m. on Saturdays. 

Copies will be available on payment of the follow- 
ing fees : — 

Particulars and other information of the scheme 
— Re. 0.25. 

Plan of the Scheme area — Re. 1.00. 

Statement of land proposed for acquisition or for 
levy q| betterment fee — Re. 0.25. 


4. Objections to the scheme will be received up 
to the 25 th August 1962. 


5. Under section 6A of the Land Acquisition Act, 
1894, as introduced by the schedule to the Calcutta 
Improvement Act, 1911, as amended by the West 
Bengal Act XXXII of 1955; the publication of this 
notice shall have the same effect as the publication 
of notification under section 4 of the Land Acquisi- 
tion Act, 1894. 

K. SEN, 
Chairman. 

Dated, Calcutta, the 25th May 1962. 


SCHEME No. LXXXVIII (Natabar Dutta Row to 
Dharamtala Street) 

1. It is notified under section 43 of the Calcutta 
Improvement Act that a Street Scheme to be known 
as Scheme No. LXXXVIII (Natabar Dutta Row to 
Dharamtala Street) for the purpose of creating new, 
or improving existing means of communication and 
facilities for traffic, remedying defective ventilation, 
providing building sites and affording better facilities 
for conservancy has been framed by the Board of 
Trustees for the Improvement of Calcutta. 

• 

2. The boundary #f the area comprised in the 
Scheme, shown within red verge on plan, is as 
follows: — 

\ 

On the North : Starting from the north-western 
corner of premises No. 36, Sasi Bhusan Dey 
Street and running eastwards along the south- 
ern edge of Ramkanai Adhikary Lane to its 
junction with Sasi Bhusan Dey Street, then in 
a straight line eastward across Sasi Bhusan 
Dev Street and Natabar Dutta Row to the 
north-western corner of premises No. 8/2A, 
Natabar Dutta Row. 

On the East: From that point running south- 
wards in a straight line along the eastern edge 
of Natabar Dutta Row for a distance of 116 ft. 
then eastwards along the northern edge of 
Natabar Dutta Row for a distance of 34 ft. 
then running towards south in a straight line 
to the south-eastern corner of premises No. 29, 
Sankharitolla Street, then southwards in a 
straight line to a point on the eastern edge 
of Ram Chandra Das Row situated at a dis- 
tance of 110 ft. from its junction with Dharam- 
tala Street measured along the eastern edge 
of the Ram Chandra Das Row. 

On the South: From that point running west- 
wards in a straight line to a point on the 
eastern edge of Indian Mirror Street situated 
at a distance of 75 ft. from its junction with 
Dharamtala Street measured along the eastern 
edge of Indian Mirror Street. 



234 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


w 


On the West: From that point running north- 
wards to the north-eastern junction of Creek 
Row and Phalgun Das Lane; then running 
along the eastern edge of Phalgun Das Lane 
to the south-eastern junction of Gokul Boral 
Street and Phalgun Das Lane then in a 
straight line towards north to the north- 
western corner of premises No. 11 /ID, 
Thakurdas Palit Lane, then running north-east- 
wards in a straight line to the starting point. 

3. Further particulars of the Scheme, a plan 
showing the Scheme area and a statement of the 
lands proposed for acquisition or for levy of better- 
ment fee may be inspected at the Trust office at 
10 Nctaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, between 11 a.m. 
and 3 p.m. on weekdays and 11 a.m. and 12-30 p.m. 
on Saturday. 

4. Copies of the' above documents will be avail- 
able on payment of the following fees : — 

Particulars and other information of the Scheme 
— Re. 0.75 

Statement of land proposed for acquisition or for 
levy of betterment fee— Re. 0.25 

Plan of the Scheme area — Re. 1.00. 

5. Objections to the Scheme will be received up 
to 31st August 1962. 


6. Under section 6A of the Land Acquisition Act, 
1894, as introduced by the schedule to the Calcutta 
Improvement Act, 1911, as amended by the West 
Bengal Act XXXII of 1955, the publication of this 
notice shall have the same effect as the publication 
of notification under section 4 of the Land Acquisi- 
tion Act. 

K. SEN, 
Chairman. 

Dated , Calcutta, the 26th May 1962. 


HOWRAH IMPROVEMENT TRUST 
NOTICE 

Howrah, the 30th May 1962. 

Notice is hereby given under section 49(3) of the 
Howrah Improvement Act, 1956, that the Board of 
Trustees for the Improvement of Howrah have 
submitted to the State Government under section 
49(1) thereof an application for sanction to their 
Improvement Scheme No. IV (Narasingha Dutta Road 
Park) with modifications considered necessary by 
the Board to the Schemes originally published in the 
“Calcutta Gazette" on 11th August 1960 and in local 
newspapers. 

A. NIYOGI, Chairman. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at tfca West Bengal Government Press, Alipore. 


1 



mistered No. C207 



(Ealnttta 





YA1STHA 24 J THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 1962 [ BAKA 1884 


PART II— Advertisements, Notices 

Procedure regarding sending; Manuscripts lor publication of Advert its ms nts, Notices, etc* in tho 

Calcutta Gazette” (Part II). 

1. Manuscripts should bs properly edited and complete in itself. 

2 . Manuscripts should always bs typewritten on one elds of the paper. Ths name of signatory should bs typewritten 
•lew the signature. 

3. Manuscripts Intended tor advertisement in the next Issue el "Calcutta Qaxette" shall be received by Publication Sales 
Mice of Now Secretariat Buildings, 1 Hastings Street, Calcutta, up to 3-30 p. m. on Friday and at Hoad Office at Allpore up to 
1 s. m. on Saturday. 

4. All costs shall bo paid in advance and deposited along with the manuscripts. 

t. Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, OOVERNMENT PRINTINQ (PUBLICATION 
IRANCH), WEST BENQAL OOVERNMENT PRESS, ALIPORE. 

The press shall not be held responsible tor delay In publication of any advertisement due to the non osssrvauco el tho 
abactions jaag jgg — 


UNION PUBLIC OE RV ICE COMMISSION 
Advertisement No. 23 

PART A 

UTIJCATIONS »rc invited or undermentioned posts 
rum Indian citizens and persons of Indian origin migrated 
n.'ii Pakistan with intention of permanently settling in 
ii'liii, subjects of Nepal, Sikkim or State of Pondicherry, 
ind persons domiciled in Goa, Daman and Diu. Age 
imits relaxable for Government servants except where 
therwlse specified. Vpper age limits relaxable by 5 years 
>ir Scheduled (‘astes and Scheduled Tribes candidates and 
ip to to \ears fi/r displat ed persons from Pakistan. No 
dax.iuon for otheis, s»vc in exceptiomil circumstances, 
•id v ill in no ease be relaxed beyond a limit of three 
Qualifications relaxable at Commission's discretion 
" case of candidates otherwise well qualified. Particulars 
to'l application lonns obtainable Irom Secretary, ITnic/n 
Ibiblie Sen iee Commission, Dost Box No. 180, New Delhi. 
l‘ 0 (ii<*st, lor forms must specify name of post uud should 
'*■ Hremnpanied by self-addressed unstamped envelope tor 
post lit least of size 9"x4" indicating I hereon name 
yt posts for which forms are required. Closing dato for 
I'^ipt ot application with treasury receipt or crossed 
^lian Postal Order tor Rs. 7.50 nP. (1.87 nP. for Sche- 
“^lod Castes and Scheduled Tribes) the 9th July 1962 
L !r d July I9fi2 for applicants from abroad). Commission 
remit genuinely indigent and bona tide displaced 
h'"ns’ iee. Separate application with separate lee 
Nmed for each post. Candidates abroad may apply on 
r ,n Paper il torms are not available and deposit fee with 
p 1 Indian Kmhass.v. ft required candidates must appear 
0r personal interviews 

J- One Assistant Agricultural Commissioner (Vegeta- 
p) for the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. 

0K t temporary hut likely to continue. Other things being 
j? 1 *! Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidate would he prefer- 
“ p ay:—Rs. 700 —50 — 1 .250. Higher initial pay to 


specially qualified and experienced candidate. Agsi — 
Preferably below 45 years for all including Government 
henantb. Qua 1 1 heat Ions: Essential — (i) Master's degree in 
Agriculture or Horticulture or Botany of recognised 
ITmersity or equivalent (or) Assoeiafteship of I.A.R.I. in 
llorticiiltuie or Botany, (ii) About five years' experience 
ol hortic ultural research and development work particularly 
ui relation to vegetables. 

2. One Research Other (Artificial Insemination), 
Southern Regional Station of National Dairy Roeoaroh 
institute, Bangalore, Ministry of Food and Agriculture. 

Post temporary hut expected to be retained on a long 
term basis. Pay:— Ks. 400— 40—800— 50- 950. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age* 15 years and below. Qualifications: Essential— (i) 
Degree or Diploma in Veterinary Science of a recognised 
Cniversitv/ Institution. (ii) Post-graduate training in 
Physiopnllmlogy </f miimals and urtificj&I insemination in a 
recognised Institute. < lii > About two years' experience in 
pimtical a]iplicat ion oi aitilicial insemination in the field. 


.1. One Clinical Pathologist, Irwin Hospital, Nsw Delhi, 
Delhi Administration. Post permanent and reserved for 
Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidate; if no such suitable 
miulidate available, will he treated as unreserved. rayi- 
Hs. .425—25 .500— .40 590- E. B. -40—800 pltis non-prac- 
tising allowance of 25 per cent, of pay, subject to a 
minimum of Rs. 150 per month. Private practice of aoj r 
kind \\ hat soever is prohibited. Higher initial pay to 
specially qualified and experienced candidate. Ago t — ,40 
\cars amj below'. Qualifications : Essential— (i) A Medical 
qualification included in the First or Second Schedule or 
Pait IT of Third Schedule (other than licentiate qualifica- 
* mils ) to the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956. {Holders 
educational qualifications included in Part TT of Third 
Schedule should also fulfil the conditions laid down under 
section 18 (.4) of the Act.] (ii) About two years' experi* 
« nee as Pathologist in a large Hospital, 


270 


TIIE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


[Part 


4. Three Economic Investigators (Civil Engineering), 
Grade I, Planning Commission. Post* temporary but 
likely to continue for about three years. One post for 
Scheduled Pastes and one for Scheduled Tribes candidates 
reserved it such suitable candidates are available otherwise 
all posts treated unreserved. Pay: — Its. 325 — 15 — 475 — 
K. B. — 20 — 575. Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
and experienced candidates. AgS: — .10 years a*nd below. 
Qualifications : Essential — (i) Degree or Diploma in Civil 
Engineering of recognised University /Institution or equi- 
valent qualification. (ii) About a year’s experience for 
degree-holders and about three years’ experience for 
diploma-holders, in Design Office or administration and 
working oi irrigation ey»t«M. 

5. One Lecturer In Metallurgy, Researoh and Bevelop- 
ment Organisation, Ministry of Defence. Post temporary 
but likely to become permanent. Post reserved for Sche- 
duled Tribes candidate if such suitable candidate is avail- 
able otherwise treated unreserved. Pay: — Its. 400 — 40 — 
800—50 — -950. Higher initial pay to specially oualified and 
experienced candidate. Age: — 40 years and below. Quali- 
ficati o ns : E ss ential — (i) At least second class degree in 

-Metallurgy or First class .M .Sc. in Physical Chemistry 
with Diploma in Metallurgy, of a recognised University 
or equivalent. (ii) About two years’ research /teaching 
experience. 

■<). 'Four Doncillatien Officors (Central), Ministry of 
Labour and Employment. Posts temporary but likely to 
continue.. One post is reserved for n Scheduled Castes 
candidate; if no such suitable candidate available, all the 
posts twill be treated as unreserved. Pay: — Its. 6(H) ~35 — 
070 K. II. -:i r > — 950 (Revised). Higher initial pay to 
specially qualified and experienced candidates. Age: — 35 
years and below. QdatlftcatlonS: Essential — <i) Degree of 
n recOgnisOd University, preferably in Economies or Soeinl 
Sciences, (ii) Successful training in Social Work in a 
recognised Institution Midi as the Tata Institute of Social 
Hoqpoes or the Kashi Vidyapith, Bunaras, or utiy other 
institution affiliated to «• recognised University, (iii) About 
three years’ experience* in labour problems in a responsible* 

4 capacity* in a Government establishment or in Industry , or 
in a trade union organisation. 


7. One Researoh Officer, Family Planning, Research 
UHlt attached to Rural Health Training Centre, Najafgarh 
(Delhi), talnfttry of Health. Post temporary but likely 
to continue. Post reserved for a Scheduled Castes /Tribes 
candidate; if no such suitable candidate available, the post 
will he treated as unreserved. Applications invited from 
totfrtfen candidates Wily. Pay:— Rs. 400 — 100 — 450- -30— 
090 - 55 — (>7() — E. B. — 35—950. Private practice cyf any 
kind whatsoever will riot be allowed. Higher initial pay 
to specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age: — 
35 years and below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) A 
14«4**al qualification included in the First or Second Sche- 
dule or Part 1] of Third Schedule (other than licentiate 
qualifications) to the Indian Mcnlical Council Act, 1950. 
I Holders of educational qualifications included in Part IT 
of Third Schedule should fulfil the conditions laid down 
under section 13(H) of the Act.J (ii) Post-graduate Degree 
or Diploma in Public Health, or equivalent qualification; 
o.g. JVJ.D. (w’ith Public Health), D.Sc. or Doctor erf Public 
Health, “Or M.P.H., D.P.H., etc. (iii) About five years’ 
practical experience in the field of Family Planning, pre- 
ferably in rural areas. 


,8 on the Rock-breaker-cum- 
OTMr”0«Mt(er "VTATTalr", Office of the Port Admlnlatra- 
1 - l, * ° ? >c . er ’ y«8apatnam Port, Ministry of Transport and 
Vynfnianiaatlons. Post temporary but likely to continue 
IMst rcfciwyed for Scheduled Castes candidate if such suit- 
Uihle tnlididate is available otherwise treated unreserved. 
m ii-ri ‘ — ^00. Higher initial pay to specially 

qualified and experienced candidate. Age:— 45 years and 
for nil including Oovernmont servants. Ouaiifica- 
tlWfli:" Esaurttw— (i) B.O.T. or M.O.T. Certificate of 
Second C lass Engineer (Steam) or equivalent. (ii) Ade- 
quate experience on a sea-going vessel or a dredger. 

9. One Stenographer (Hindi) in the Department of 

; Revenue, Ministry of Finance. Post temporary but likely 
to continue indefinitely. Candidates will have to sit for 
short hand test and to transcribe their notes on type- 
writers within a specified time (details of which will 


iollow in due course) and only then who attain & mini^ n 
standard of efficiency a*t the test will be interviewed p* 
Rs. 210—10 -290— 15 — 320 — E. B.— 15— 425— E. B.J J 
530. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and exp* 
enced candidate. Age: — 25 years and below. Qua|)& 

Hons: Essential — (i) Matriculation of a recognised Unm 
sity or equivalent. (The candidate should have nff er 
Hindi as one of the subjects for the Matriculation 
higher examinutic/n passed by him.) (ii) Minimum m* 
of 100 words per minute in Hindi shorthand and 15 ^ or 
per minute for transcription. 


JO. One Senior Medical Officer (Paed la trios), Safdari* 
Hospital, New Delhi, Ministry of Health. Post tempo" 

and likely to eontinue indefinitely. Pay: — Rs. 700 4(3 

1,100 — 50/2 — 1,250 plus non-practising allowance of 20 r 
cent, of pay, subject try a minimum ol Rs. 150 per nionr 
Pri\ute practice, including consultant practice, is prohil 
ted. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and exi^ 
enced candidate. Age: — 40 years and below. Qualifo 

tions: Essential — (1) A Medical qualification included 
the First or Second Schedule or Part II of Third Kchediu 
(oilier than licentiate qualifications) to the Indian M J 
(‘omicil Act, 1950. f Holders of educational qualifier, J 
included in Patt II of Third Schedule should also 
the qualifications laid down in section 13(3) of the Ac 
(11) Post-graduate qualification in Poediatrics, e.g., 0(*j 
M.D., M.It.C’.P. with Paediatrics as a special subjK 
nii) About seven years’ standing in the profession, 
about five years’ expei lonce in Paediatrics in a ’ hu 
Hospital. 

11. One Leoturer in Anaesthesia, Medical Coil* 
Pondicherry, Ministry of Health. Post temporary 
likely to continue and be made permanent eventual 
P®Y ! — Rs. 530— 30— (j5<) plus non-praytising nllowancn 
25 ]x»r cent, of pay, subject to a minimum of Rs. loll) 
month. Private practice of any kind whatsoever mill 
la* allowed. Higher initial pay io specially qualified J 
experienced candidate. Age:— 35 \ears and bd2 
Qualifications: Essential— (i) A Medical qualification 
ded in the First or Second Schedule or Part 11 ol Thi 
Schedule (ofhn than licentiate qua*lificat ions) to ilia Indi 1 
Medical (’mined Act, 1950. I Persons possessing cpuliiic 
turns included in Part H of Third Schedule should a]; 
lulfil the coiulil ions relating to registration specified 
section 13(3) ot the Act.) (ii) Piyst-grnduatr/ lh\spai| 
Degree or equivalent Dipluma.in Anaesthesiu. (iii) Abu 
Ihree years’ experience a*s Reg 
in Anaesthesia in 


1‘gistrar or in equivalent 
medical leaching institution. 


12. Three Deputy Assistant Directors, Central Res* 
Institute, Kasauli, Ministry of Health. One post, per 

nent and two temporary. Appointment to permanent p 
will be made on temporary basis in lien vacancy, Can 
dates who’ applied in response to Commission's earl 
advertisement No. 50, published 011 15th Januarv BHi2.nr 
not apply again. Pay:— Rs. 400-400- 150- 30- (jdtu: IT 
. 070— K. B. -.35 — 950. Higher initial pay to specia 

qualified and exalified a*nd experienced candidates. A| 
years and below. Qualifications: Essential -h) 
.Medical qualification included in the First or Second 
tilde or Part Jl ol Third Schedule (other than licontii 
qualification) to the Indian Medical Council Act, W, 

I Persons possessing qualifications included in Pad It 
Third Schedule should also fulfil the conditions laid do 
under section 13(3) of the Act.J 

13. One Principal Scientific /Technical Officer for 

Researoh and Development Organisation, Ministry! 
Defence. Post temporary but- likolv to become permana 
Pay:— Rs. 1,11)0—50—1.200—100—1,500. Higher irf " 

pny^tcy specially qualified and experienced candidate. K 

45 years and below. Qualifications: Essential- 
Master's degree with research /design oxperienee 
Doctors degree in aeronautical /mechanical engine 
WMth specialisat ion in propulsion systems or cquival 
qualifications. (ii) At least five years’ expeneniv 
research, design and development of jet engines ol *1, 
at least 3 years should have been in n responsible rapw 

It. One Deputy Legal Adviser, Department of K 
Affairs, Ministry of Law. Post temporarv H 
Rs. 1,100- — 50 — 1,300 — (H) — 1,000. Higher initial 
socially qualified and experienced candidate, 
lietw-een 35 and 45 years. Qualifications: Essential - h| 
itn Officer ol the State Judicial Service for a period oi 
less than ten years; or (b) A person who lias beJ 
superior post in the legal department of a State fa. 


Past II] 


TIIK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


271 


period of not less than five years; or (c) A Central Gov- 
ernment servant who has had experience in legal affairs 
for not less than ten years; or (d) An Advocate of a 
High Court who has practised as such for at least ten 
years; or (e) An Attorney of the High Court of Bombay 
Calcutta who has practised as such for at least eight 
years. (ii) Should have adequate experience of convey- 
ancing work, preferably conveyancing work of the Central 
or a State Government, and experience in Company Law r 
Matters. 

15 . 'Om Divisional Engineer (Reclamation), Oangaka- 
ranya 1 Preloot, Ministry of Rehabilitation. Post tempo- 
in»ry but likely to continue tor three years. Other things 
being equal Scheduled Castes candidate would he preferred. 
'Pay i— Rs. 700 — 40 — 1 , 100 . — .>0/2 — 1,250 plus project allow- 
ance of Rs. 125 per month. Higher initial pay to specially 
qualified and experienced candidate. Age: — 45 years and 
below r . QtfAllfieations: Essential — (i) Degree in mechani- 
cal engineering of recognised University or equivalent, 
(ii) Working knowledge of heavy crawler tractor, light 
tractor, earth -moving machinery of different types and 
diesel and petrol driven light and heavy transport vehicles. 

< iii > At least four years’ practical field experience in the 
operation, maintenance and repairs of heavy crawler trac- 
tei and earth-lnoving machinery, etc 

Id. Due Director of Teetmloal Laboratories under the 
Ministry of Homo Afltirs. Post tempimirv but likely to 
l»c made permanent, Pay: — H's. 1 ,000—100— ll, 800. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age: — Preferably below 45 years for all including Govern- 
ment servants. Qualifications: Essential — (i) Outstanding 
Research / Development contribution in the field of Elec- 
tronic*/ Trie-eouimunication and allied subjects and experi- 
ence in guidihg research in this field, (ii) Experience of 
oiganismg and administration of research laboratories. 

Corrigendum 

In partwil modification of Commission's advertisement 
No 1 8 which appeared on 5th May i9G2. it is notified for 
general inlormation that the scales ot pay for posts of 
(D Pri/fcssor (Fisheries Keonomics), item 1 of the adver- 
tisement and (ii) (a) Assistant Professor (Inland 
Kislieries) and (b) Assistant Professor (Oceanography), 
item 2 of the advertisement, in the Central Institute of 
Kislieries Education, Bombay, have bwn revised from 
IN 700- *40 — 1 .100 — 50/2 — 1 ,250 and Rs. 400—400—450— 
:«) (WK) — .‘15- 670 -E. B. — .15 — 950 to Rs. 7(H)— 50— 1 ,250 
and Rs. 400—40 — 800 — B. — 50-950, respectively. Other 
mnrlitions remain uncMnged. Closing date extended to 
HHth dune 1902. 

PART H 

Government of India Scholarship* for Overseas 8tudles to 
Scheduled Castas, Scheduled Tribes and other Back- 
ward Classes. 

APPLICATIONS arc invited from candidates belonging to 
Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other backward 
rlii h non Only for award of 14 Government of India Scholar- 
ships for Overseas studies (5 each for Scheduled Castes and 
'vliodnled Tribes and 4 for other Backward Classes) of 
0,1( ‘ f° three years’ duration for advanced courses of study 
and research work, preferably in Medicine, Engineering, 
'grinilture. Science and Technology in the United Kingdom 
°r other suitable countries. Candidates must be citizens 
( >f India or persons migrated from Pakistan with intention 
m permanently settling in India or subjects of Sikkim or 
°f Pondicherry and persons domiciled in Goa, Daman 
i»»id Dill. 

Candidates already residing abroad are not eligible lor 
*' ]r ' grant of* scholarships. 

Age:— Not more than 35 years on 1st October 1962. 
•his will he strictly adhered to. 

Qualifications: Essential— (0 Eirst Class (Second Class 
oi Scheduled Tribes) Master’s degree or equivalent quali- 
gallons. Or First Class (Second Class for Scheduled 
tt’ iL Degree or equivalent for candidates 

s; ’ qualifications in Engineering /Technology /Medicine/ 
(ii) About three years’ experience as Physician 
tfi . ,, 1 rKeon 111 recognised hospital (for candidates intending 
OiiJfc U .P P os t-graduate courses in Medicine (Surgery) . 
v locations relaxable at Commission’s discretion in case 


of candidate# otherwise well qualified. Dsafrtble— For 
t0 tlkf U P poat-graduata oouraat In 
Metfktfne / lurgiry t M.D. or M.S. of a recognised Univer- 
sity. Not®: Where no Class or Division is awarded in 
an examination, GO j>or cent, marks will 1>© considered 
equivalent to 1st Class/ Division and 50 per cent, marks to 
2nd Class /Division. 


r ® t< ' , ^^^^holarships is £500 per annum at 
Oxford /C ambridge Universities, £450 per annum in other 
Universities and Institutions in U.K. and $1,800 per 
annum in U.S.A., plus cost of hooks, study tours, equip- 
ment allowance and passage, and tuition and examination 
ices (which will be paid to Institutions direct bv Govern- 
ment) Particulars and application forms from Secretary 
Union Public Service Commission, Post Box No. 180, New 
io u* 1, ***** for . rw 0, Pt applications 23id duly 

19G2. If, mpiired. candidates must appear for interview. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 

General Instructions to candidates applying in response to 
advertisements laeued by the Oemmlselen for reoruif* 
mont to poets of “Seleotlon”. 

(1) instruction* regarding submission of application 

A ppheatious are to be made on the proscribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor). 
Alipore, Caleiittn-27, personally or on sending a large self- 
addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to cover the 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 
copies oi the prescribed form may apply on any similar 
typed (not handwritten) form showing exactly the word- 
ing and spacing of the sample form published in the 
“Calcutta Gazetto’ * of the 1st Reptember 1955, provided 
the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ own handwriting. 

(2) Particulars and oertifioates roqulrsd Candidates 

should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous oxjKJTienee together with certificates written not 
more than- one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifying to tboir private 
character. 

TJTie Commission aooepts only the age of a candidate as 
leoorded m the Matriculation or the Secondary School 
Final / Leaving Certificate. In the case of a female candi- 
date whose ugo ih not recorded in the Matriculation or 
School Final ( ’ertificate, anV of the following evidence of 
age is accepted by the Commission:— 

1. A certificate from tho Headmistress of the school, 

which she last attended, showing her exact ago as 
recorded in the school register. 

2. An affidavit regarding Imr ago sworn by her father 

or mother or some other person in a position to 
know by having boon prosent or heard of her birth 
at the time of occurrence. 

3. A certificate regarding her age, from a Member of 

the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who must 
have known the candidate and her family, indicat- 
ing (dearly the evidence on the basis of which he/ 
she satisfied himself /herself on the point. 

(3) Fas. - Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 In the form of a receipted ortolan 
from a Government Treasury or the Reaenre Bank of India 
under thri bend “XXXVT— Miscellaneous — Receipts of the 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal’'. Money orders, 
cheques, etc., in lieu of treasury cbollapg are not accepted. 
Postal order, however, may be accepted from candidates. 
They should he cross'*] and made payable to "TTie Secre- 
tary! Pnbl k* Service Commission, West Bengal". ,No appli- 
'■ation will he considered nolens accompanied with the 
requisite application fee. 

Candidates abroad may deposit their application fees 
with the High Commissioner of India or the Embassy, aa 
the case may be, and obtain receipts for the same, which 
will have to be attached to their applications to he sub- 
mitted to the Commission. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE H 1962 


[Part Ii 


272 


Candidates in Government service should moke sure 
before depositing fee that their application® will be forward- 
ed by their superior officers, in no case will the fee paid 
with the Application be refunded. 

The Commission may remit fee in case of genuine 
indigent and hona fide displaced person from Pakistan. 

An indigent displaced person stall, in the first instance, 
pay the application fee prescribed for a gazetted post 
advertised by the Commission but if he /she is selected for 
and appears at the interview, the fee paid by him/her will 
be refunded afterwards. 

Note. — “(t) A unplaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his Application satisfactory evidence 
that he is bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, e.g 
refuge* registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original. 

(ii) A member of the Scheduler! On-ste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming ago concession must furnish with his appli- 
cation a certificate in original from a gazetted officer or a 
Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging to 
the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 

(iii) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion fee must furnish besides the evidence required under 
Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) frdm a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.” 

(4) Add rasa. — Candidates should give their prosent 
address ami should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 

(ft) Canvassing. — Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
lnfluencn or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneous , recommendation from 
imrson* in fores bod in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will he disregarded. 

(0) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under atiy Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation), in 
India will he rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 

Candida tos serving under Government or a local or 
StatutoTv Body should submit an advance copy in the pres- 
cribed form. The application fee should in such cases be 
attached to the advance copy and not to the original. The 
candidature of such applicants may not however be ccm- 
aidered if the original applications do not reach the Com- 
mission’ s office within a fortnight from the closing date. 
Unless applications in original or advance copies with 
application fees are received within the closing date, late 
applications may be rejected. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Ah pore, i he 27 th January 198). 


Advertisement No. 36 

WEST BENGAL <TV1L SERVICE (JUDICIAL) 
EXAMINATION, AUGUST. 1962 

A COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION will be held iti 
Calcutta in August 1962 for recruitment to the West 
Bengal Civil Bervioe (Judiolal). 'Hie number of vacancies 
to be filled up on the results of the examination is seven. 

Qualifications and Age-limit i — A graduate in Law of 
some statutory University or a Barrister-at-Law or a 
Member of the Faculty of Advocates in Scotland, or an 
Advocate or Attorney on tho rolls of the High Court in 
Calcutta. Age not less than 21 years and not more than 
27 years on 1st January 1962, provided that no candidate 
sha-ll be allowed to appear at more than three examina- 
tions. The upper age-limit is relaxable by five years at 


the discretion of Government in the case of candidates 
who are Government servants with at least two years’ 
experience in any Government office. The upper age. 
limit is also relaxable for candidates belonging to Scheduled 
Castes or Scheduled Tribes, bona fide displaced person 
from Pakistan and for certain other categories of 
candidates. 

Copies of detailed notice and application form will be 
available free of cost lrom 4th June 1962 frtm the office 
oi the Public Service Commission, Anderson House (ground 
itoor). Atipore, Calcutta-27. Those wanting copies of rules, 
etc., by post should send a self -addressed large envelop^ 
(size L0*x5") with postage stamps worth 35 naye paiso 
affixed to it. Those who intend to take application forms, 
etc., and/or submit the applications personally should do 
so between 10-15 a.rn. and 3-00 p.m. on full working ( ] ays 
and between 10-15 a.m. and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 
Applications (with two copies cyf passport size photographs 
enclosed) to be submitted on the prescribed form with u 
Treasury Chalan for lis. 5.00 under head “XXI — Misrel- 
huicoiiK — Receipts of the Public Service Commission, West 
Bengal” or a Crossed Postal Order of lis. 5.00 payable tu 
the “Secretary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal”. 
Candidates admitted to the examination will l>e required 
to |>ay Rs. 50.00 as ice. The Commission may remit fees 
of bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan if they arc 
genuinely indigent. A candidate seeking remission of 
fees will, however, be required to pay the prescribed appli- 
cation and examination fees. If he appears in all the 
compulsory papers of the examination and satisfies the 
( omniission that he is a bona lido displaced person in 
indigent circumstances who can ill afford to pay the fees 
the amount paid will he refunded to him. 

Last date for filing applications— 25th June 1962. 


A. ('. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Sen ice Commission, West Pencil. 
Alipore. the 23rd May 1962. 


Advertisement No. 38 


APPLICATIONS aic invited from ‘Indian citizens for the 
following posts: — 

(a) One Geologist under the Directorate of Mines and 
Minerals, West Bengal. Post temporary. Women un- 
suitahle. Pay:— Bs. 300 30 900 (E.B. at Stb ami Will 
stages) per month plus oilier udlowanees as admissible 
under the rules. Higher initial pay up to Rs. 450 mav 
he allowed on nrruiint oi academic attainments or techni- 
cal or research experience or on age basis up to 35 years. 

Qualifications: Essential — (i) A second class M.Sc. degree 
in Geology trom a recognised University or Diploma in 
Applied Geology lrom the. Indian School of Mines; (u> 
T.hrew years’ experience in prospecting and/or mining 
Desirable — -Experience in mining and drilling. Age:- - 
Between 25 and 10 yearn on the 1st July 1962. 

Closing date— The 9th July 1962. 

(I>) One Assistant Professor of Art and Craft in the 
West Bengal Educational Service. Post permanent. Pay:— 
Rs. 325 -30 — 17.V~35-.-l ,000 per month. Higher initial 
pay . U P to Rs. 475 may bp granted on the basis ot quali- 
fbalions and experience. 

Qualifications: Essential— Either, o) A degree in Eng- 
ineering of a recognised University or its equivalent; (id 
l\\o years’ practical experience in a reputea workshop of 
in building trade. Or, (i) Diploma in Engineering of * 
lecognised Institute; (ii) Seven years’ experience m 3 
reputed workshop rn’ in building trade. Desirabls—ld 
Familiarity with small scale industries; (ii) Good power 
oi expression in Bengali- -written and spoken. Age:" 
Not more than 35 years on the 1st July 1962, reliable j 
in the case ot candidates possessing exceptionallv hitfh 
qualifications and for persons holding substantive appoint- 
rnent in the Education Department, West Bengal. 

Closing data— The 5th July 1962. 


I'AllT II J 


T1IE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


273 


, c ) jhree Lecturers in Chemistry in the West Bengal 
junior Educational Service (Women’s Branch). Posts 
rtiiinorury but two of thorn are likely to be made perma- 
nent. Men unsuitable. Pay: — It's. 275 — 15 — .‘150 — 20 — 

per month plus house rent allow anee as admissible 
under the rules. Higher initial pay up to Its. 1150 may 
^ granted on the basis of qualifications and experience. 

Qualifications: Essential— ( i ) A first elnss Master’s 
ite^ree, Or, A Second class Master’s degree with first class 
tloiioui s in the Bachelm’s degree, Or, A Doctorate degree 
Wl tl, a first class Honours or seeond class Master's degree, 
^ .Mi Indian university, in Chemistry; 

Or, 

Equivalent foreign qualifications; 

Or, 

|i a candidate lias otherwise a good academic record, a 
seciflid class MasUu’s degree with second class Honours 
the Bachelor's degree, in Chemistry, plus live years’ 
iii’li ing experience in a> recognist'd college* as a wlioletinio 
uuclier in the subject. The period of teaching experience 
may be relaxed at the discretion of the Commission. 

iii) (For two posts) — Specialisation in Inorganic 

( hcinistiy. 

Desirable — Hood power ufi expression in Bengali — spoken 
uni w i it ten. Age:— Not more Ilian .’15 years oil the 1st 
,) ul \ ItMi’J. relaxable in the ease ot speeuvllv cpialilied 
i in iuliites and for persons holding substantive uppoint- 
idoi ( m the Education Department, West Bengal. 

Closing date— The 5th July 1962. 
t • 

pi) One Research Assistant (Statistics) under the 
Directorate of Dairy Development and Animal Husbandry, 
West Bengali Post temporary. Pay: Its. 200 — 10 — 
k)0 per month. 

Qualifications: Essential — A Master’s degree in Statistics 
i*i in Mathematics with knowledge ol Statistical methods, 
Or, an Honours degree in Statistics or Mathematics plus 
J'o idiiaduate Diploma o! the* Indian Counci 1 of AgrieuU 
lui.il Beseareh jn Agricultural Statistics. Desirable— (i) 
study ul Economics as a subject in the degree* course; 
(in Familiarity with Agricultural practices, (iii) Experi- 
I'lin* (/I Besearcli or of A&ro-eeonomie Surveys; ( i v ) Sound 
know ledge ol Bengali language spoken and written. Age: 

V«»t more than 25 years on the 1st .lime 1062. relaxable 
in t I k 1 cay« of candidates specially well qualified twid 
'•\pci icnced. 

Closing date— The 29th June 1962. 

Age Conoe88ion 

Hie upper age limit for all the posts is relaxable by 
fat- 'ears tor Scheduled Casles/Tribes and up to 45 years 
,<)r displaced persons from Pakistan. 

A candidate who before the loth \ugiist 1917, was 
■w , t.imed, imprisoned, interned or externod on account of 
,lls lier activities in connection with the country’s struggle 
101 mdependence. not being convicted ol an offence indi- 
a ung moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession 
11 lopoet of the upper age-bmit. The concession 
quilled will be equal to the exact period of detention, 
lt| >l>nsonmeut, internment or externment suffered up to a 
^■■iMnuim of four years. 

M'pl.v to Secretary with a Treasury Clmlan of Rs. 5 
uidcr bond “XXI— Miscellaneous— Rec(*ipt..s of Public 
N*rvi<(. Commission, West Bengal” or a Crossed Postal 
1 dor of [ts. 5 payable to “Secretary, Public Service 
""iinission. West Bengal”. Overseas candidates may 
t their application fees with the High Commission of 
hum or the Indian Embassy, as the ease may be. Parti- 
l j lars and prescribed application forms obtainable from 
office ol the Commission, Anderson House (ground 
Alipore, Calcutta-27, personully or on sending a* 
^ijsuldressed large onveh/pe with postage stamp of 35 nP. 
Ttn 1 , Uai . lll! °l the post superscribed on the envelope, 

ai • ° hi tend to take application forms and/or submit 
^Ijiu-ntions personally should do so between 10-15 a.m. 

' f d*(M) p.m. on full working days and between 10-15 a.m. 
lKl p.m. on Saturdays. 

A. C. ROT, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengali. 

the 30th May 1962. 


Advertisement No. 39 


\ IMPLICATIONS are invited from Indian citizens for the 
lollowing posts: — 

(a) Five inspectors of Factories, West Bengal, In the 
West Bengal Factories Service. Posts— three permanent 
and two temporary. Women unsuitable Fayi— Rs. 325 

30 175—35 — 1,000 (E.B. after 8th and 10th stages) plus 

< oti\ ey anee allow ance ol Rs. 10 per month plus house rent 
allow anee as admissible under the mles. 

Qualifications: — (i) A degree in Meehan ieal or Civil or 
Electric}*! Engineering or any other qualification m Mecha- 
meal or Civil or Electrical Engineering exempting a candi- 
date I lorn ap|H*aring in Sections A .aid B ol the Assoeiute 
Membership Examination of the Institution <>t Engineers 
(India), prolorenee being given to those having qualifica- 
tions in Mechanical Engineering; ui) Adequate engineer- 
ing experience m a workshop or a uianuiacluring concern 
of repute. Age: — Not more than 35 years on the 1st 
duly 1962, relaxable tor a specially qualified and experi- 
enced candidate. 


<l>) One Lecturer in Surveying in the Directorate of 
Mines end Minerals, West Bengal. Post temporary. Pgy: 
— Rs. 25(1 15 550 (E.B. alter Hth ami 16th stages) per 

mouth. Iligliei initial pay up to Rs. 325 may be granted 
on account ot academic attainments or technical or research 
expel icnec, or on age basis up to 30 years. 


Qualifications: Essential — Either, A degree or diploma 

m Mining of a i (•cognised university or institution; Or, 
(at A univeisifv degree in Science*, (b) Mine Surveyor's 
(Vrtifiente, (<•) Three yea is’ experience ol Mine Surveying. 
Desirable — For those holding a degree or diploma in 
Mining, a Mine Surveyor's Certificate. Age: — Not* more 
than -15 yea is on the 1st .lul.v 1962 rebixabb* for u» candi- 
d.Hc specially "HI qualified snd experienced. 


Age Concession 

The age limit for <ill the js<>ts is relax' able by live years 
lor Scheduled Caste.s/Ti dies and up to 45 years lor 
displaced pel sous troin Pakistan. 


A candidate who hef</re tlie 15th August 1947, was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his/her activities in connection with the country’s struggle 
for independence, not being convicted ol an offence indi- 
cating moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession 
in respect <d the age limit. The concession granted will 
be equal to the exact period ol detention, imprisonment, 
internment or exiernnmnt suffered up to a maximum of 
lour years. 


Apply to Secretary with a Treasury Chalan of Rs. 5 
under bond “XXI Miscellaneous — Receipts of Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal” or a Crossed Postal 
Order of Bk. 5 payable to “Secretary, Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal”. Overseas candidates may 
deposit their application fees .with the High Commission of 
India or the Indian Embassy, as the case may be. Parti- 
culars and proscribed application forms obtainable from 
the office ot the Commission, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or mi sending a 
self -addressed large envelope with postage stamp of 35 nP. 
and the irum> ot the post* superscribed on the envelope. 
Those who intend to take application forms and/or submit 
Ihe applic.it inns personally should do so between 10-15 a.m. 
and 3-(K) p in. oil full working days and between 10-15 a.m. 
and 12-30 p.m. on Sat in days 

Closing date- The 5th July 1962. 


A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Alipore the 2nd June 1962L 


*74 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


[Pa»i|] 


IN THE COURT OF THE DI8TRICT JUDGE, HOWRAH 
Insolvency Case No. 16 off 1662 

TAKK notice that an application lias boon filed by Kanai 
I ail Nandy, nod of late Narayan Chandra Nandv, of 14/2/7 
Currie Riiad, police-station Shibpur, district Howrah, for 
being adjudged an insolvent. The application has been 
admitted and fixed on 23rd June 1902 for hearing. 

ILLKGIBLK, 
District Judge. 

(G04 — 1 ) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, HOWRAH 

Insolvency Case No. 17 off 1962 

TAKK notice thut an application has been filed by Tliraln! 
Kai, son of late Chinta Haran Uai, oi 310/1/4, Circular 
Hoad, police-station Kibpnr, district Howrah, tor being 
adjudged an insolvent. The applieation has been admitted 
and fixed on 7th July 1962 for hearing. 

IBLKG1BLK. 
Distriet Judge. 

(603- ~1 ) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DI8TRICT JUDGE, BURDWAN 

insolvency Case No. 1 of 1960 

Madhusudan Kowar 
versus 

Harihar Naiuly Chowdliury 

11' is notified for general information that the order of 
adjudication aguinst the debtor-petitioner Shri Madhu- 
sudan Kowar, son of Shri Bholaiiuth Kowar, of Bliat- 
kunda, police-station Ausgram, district Burdwan, lias been 
annulled under orders of the Court, dated the 28th April 
1902. 

I. B. BAR'MAN, District Judge. 

(601—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DI8TRICT JUDGE, BURDWAN 

Insolvency Case No. 3 of 1962 

Prmat Banjan Chatterjee and another, Petitioners. 

IT is notified for general information that the debtor- 
applicants Provat Banjan Chatterjee and Ashim Banjan 
Chatterjee, sons of late Jogesh Chandra Chatterjee, 
residents of Kalna, police- station Kalna, district Burdwan, 
have filed an application before this Court for being 
adjudged insolvent. The said ease is set down forr bearing 
on the 2nd day oj July 1962. 

Anyone interested in the matter may appear before this 
Court and file objection, if any, by the* date fixed. 


I. B. BARMAN, District Judge. 
Burdwan, the 1st June 1962. 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE 8UB-JUDGE AT ALlPOty 
Insolvency Application No. 6 of 1962 

PURSUANT to a petition, dated 27th January 19G2, fit* 
against (1) Praclip Kumar (biha, (2) Nanda Kumar M J?r , 
and (3) Dipti Blnisan Sen Gupta of 36 Maharaj 
Kumar Hood, }>olice-statjon Barahanagar, Debtors, ; in( ] ^ 
the apjdicatiou <vt Indra Lai Agarwala of No. 2, Ala i 
Street. Calcutta- 16, Cieditor, and on reading the 
lion o| tin* Creditor, and hearing his lawyer, it is 
that the debtor he and the said debtor is hereby u<ljn<|>j 
insolvent. ' 

It is fui flier ordered that the debtor do apply to, i 
discharge alter December 1963. 


Dated Ibis 2nd da\ ot June 1902. 


lUMUHl, 

Sub-JutjiT,, 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PA RG AN AS 


Insolvency Case No. 24 of 1962 

Kislmre Jeswara ol Ibinsbagnu, Titagarli. police-snub 
Titagai h, Dciitor-Apiilicant 

To Jagatamba Panda of ullage Budroswar, district IbmjK 
and 6 otheis Creditors. 

OX the 1st da.\ ol June 1962 it was ordered that the mur' 
<)l the petition (4 the applicant be henrd on the Gtli dm 
July 1962 and that the said applicant to attend to b 
c*\annned b\ this court on that date. 

ILLKGITm 

Sub-.Jndi& 

Alipoie, the 2nd June 1962. 

(Ot 12- 


SUMMONS FOB SKTTLKMF.NT OF 1SSUK8 

Order V, rules 1 and 5 of the C.P.C. 

DISTRICT SANTHAL PARGANAS 

IN THE COURT OF THE SUBORDINATE JUDGE A 
DEOGHAR 

Title Suit No. 47 of 1957 

Sri Sri Baidyanath Jiu 
versus 


Slianta Debi and others 
To 

(1) Subliadra Debi (Defendant No. 6), daughter ol la 
Median Dal Khatri and wife ol Shri Naruyun fi 
Gar a eli , Coal Merchant, Beadon Btiw, Calcutta-6. 

(2) Laclibini Debi (Defendant No. 7). daughter oi b 
Moluinlal Khatri and wile of Shri Kantilal Mam tor 
c/o M. M. Mamtora, 9C Indra Boy Road, Calcutta 

\\HKRKAS the ] * la i nt iff has instituted a suit against 
for recovery of Its. 360 as arrears of rent and also n 
eviction from holding No. 39, Ward No. VII of the DeogW 
Municipality. You are hereby summoned to appear m t ’ 1 
Court on the lOtli day of July 196*2 at 10-30 a. m l 
I m ‘|m«i or by a pleader duly instructed and able to ausfft 
all material questions relating to tlio suit. 

lake notice that, in default of your apjiearftnce oi 
dav before mentioned the suit will be heard and do tern 
in your absence. 


Given under iiiv band 
1st day of June 1962. 


and seal of the Court, this 

H. B. SAHA1, 
Subordinate Judge, Deof 
(0 


.(609—1) 


Taut 11 1 


THfe CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


275 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT A8AN80L 
Insolvency Case No. 18 of 1962 

petitioner: Lalmoharfi Mitra, son of lato Durga Pada 
Mitra, by caste Hindu, by profession service holder, 
residence a*t Omlal Damodai Ct/loin, police-station 
Ondal, district Burdwun. 

j y is hereby notified that the aho\enumed petitioner has 
applied to be adjudged an msoheiit. The Court has 
iegistered that application and li\ed Bitli July 1902 for 
l he bearing tliorec/l. 

N. ('. DATTA, Sub- Judge. 

( 007 — 1 ) 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
IN INSOLVENCY 

No. 8 Of 1961 

Re.: Jcwdiilul Dnga, Ex piwle the debtor 

NOTICE i s beieby given that by an order of Court, dated 
I he 11Mb dn\ oi Kehrmiry BMW, the order of adjudication 
.Made herein on the 12th day ot September ItUil was 
mindled 

. M. M. CHAKRABARTTJ, 

Official Assignee of Calcutta. 

fi Council House Street, Calcutta, 

Dated the llli June 19(12. 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
IN INSOLVENCY 
* 

Summary Case No. 31 of 1981 

Re.: Eatheyab All Meerza, Kx parte tlie Debtor 

NOTICE is hereby given that the abovenamed debtor 
having applied lor his discharge, the Court has fixed 
Wednesday, the 1th day of July 1902, at 12 o’clock noon 
•u the Court House lor hearing the application. 

M. M. C If A K It ABARTTJ, 
Official Assignee of Calcutta. 
Dated the 1th day of June 1992. 


^VNKAltDAS BAOOHl, LL.B., intends to he emolled a.j 
1,n Advocate oi the Calcutta High Coint. 

(507— 4) 


lUHINDRA NATH PATH,. T,L.B.. inlands to be enrolled 
K 11,1 Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

( 508 — 1 ) 


SH, f 1 HISWANATH CHATTORA.T, T,I,.TI., in1«udn to be 
'"'"lied as itn Advoeate ol tluleutla High Court.. 

( 509 — 4 ) 


J'VaIdyanatHA MUTHUSAMI, LL.B., intend to be 
nultMi as an Advocate of xhe Calcutta High Court. 

( 510 — 4 ) 


PARESH CHANDRA DEB, LL.B.. intends to be enrolled 
as on Advocate oi the Calcutta High Court. 

( 511 — 4 ) 


I, SHIU PR AN HOUR HARKAR, LL.B., intend to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(512 — 4) 


.11 BON LAL (H1ATAK, LL.B., intends to be enrolled us an 
Advoeate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 513-0 


ASOKAS1SH MAfTRA, LL.B., intends to he enrolled as 
an Advoeate o| the Calcutta High Court. 

( 514 - 4 ) 


Bimil’TI PRASAD MODI. LL.B . intends to he enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 510 - 4 ) 


XRIPENDR AN ATI! CHAl’DllllRI, LL.B., intends to he 
enrolled as an Advoeato of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 615 — 4 ) 


DEBENDR A MOHAN M HKIIOPADH YAY, LL.1L, intends 
to lie enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta Mich Court. 

(617 4/ 


DILIP KUMAR MITRA, LL.B.. intends to be enrolled as 
:m Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(618—4) 


ASOK KOMAR IIOR, LL.B., intend.* to he enrolled as an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 519 - 4 ) 


A Ml YAHANDIill SINHA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
m . an Advocuto ol the Calcutta High Court. 

( 620 - 4 ) 


ALOKEXATU MUKHKIIJEE, Pleader, intends to be en- 
rolled us an Advocate in the Calcutta Bar Council. 

( 522 — 4 ) 


T M’ENDRANAR AYAN RAY CHOWDHUKY, LL.B., 
intends to he enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court. 

( 523 - 4 ) 


HASITDEB SIL, LL.B., intends to be enrolled m an 
Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 

( 524 — 4 ) 



27G 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


[Part ft 


SUBITASKIJMAR PAL, LL.B., intends to be enrolled at 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(532—4) 


MUKTINATH MUKHOPADHYAY. LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocato ot‘ the Calcutta High Court. 

(5113—4) 


D1PAK KUMAR R'AY, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
uu Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(534—4) 


HACHINDRA KT1MAR GHOSH. LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled an an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

/ 636 — 4) 


UIlilDHAJlI KUNDU, M.Com., LL.B., intends to be en- 
rolled a*s an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(545 — 4) 


GIR1DH AIM LALL SHAUMA, LL.B., intends to be en- 
rolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court, 

(546-4) 


mVUENOKV LAL LASKAK, LL.B., intends to be en- 
rolled .is an AdviK.uo ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(o47 — 4) 


AN1MESH DAS, LL.B., iutends to bo enrolled as &n 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(548—4) 


RAM A 1)1 1 All MISHUA, LL.1L, intends to he enrolled as 
an Advotale ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(536- -4) 


SHR1 1MTRGA PA DA GOTHA, LL.B., intends to be enroll- 
ed as an Advocate ol Calcutta High Court. 

(537 — 4) 


SHRI SAMAR KUMAR BA NKRJKE, LL.B., intends to 
he enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 538 - 4 ) 


SHRI SUNIL RAN.TAN BANER.TEE, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an. Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(539—4) 


STUtI KARTICK CHANDRA DUTT, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(540—4) 


SH1U N1RMAL KUMAR* SAHA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate oi Calcutta High Court. 

(541 — 4) 


SHRI TARA PADA DUTT A. LL.B., intends to he enrolled 
as an Advocate of Calcutta* High Court. 

(542 — 4) 


SHIM HIM AT* RANJAN ROYCHOWDHURI intends to bo 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(543—4) 


SHRI BIMAL BANDHU BHADURT, M.A. (Com.), LLJB., 
intends to be enrolled ns an Advocate of Cal. High Court. 

(544—4) 


GAJENDR A NATIl CHAKRAVARTY, LL.B., iutends t» 
he enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Comt. 

(549 -A) 


SHRI BISWANATH SEN, LL.B. intends to be enrolli 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 551 — - 


JtlliHUTl HHUKAN BHAUMIK, LL.B., intends to I 
on i oiled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 

(552 - 


A JIT KUMAR PRASAD, LL.B^ intends to be enroll* 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(553 — a 


SU Dll AM AY DAS, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as a 
Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court. 

(554 — 4 


SANTOSII CHANDRA (JITI’TA, LL.B., intends to b 
enrolled ns an Ad vocal e ol tlic Calcutta High Court. 

( 655-4 


1UMADRINATH MUKHOPADHYAY, intends *o h 
enrolled as an Advocate ot Calcutta High Court. 

( 667-4 


SYKD MOHAMMED MASUD, LL.B., intends to be w 
rolled us an Advocato of the Calcutta High Court. 

(558—*) 


SHRI TABITB1KAS DEB. LL.B.. intends to be enrol 
as an Advocate of th© Calcutta High Court. 




f*ST II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


277, 


gORi SYAMAL KUMAR HAJRA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate orf the High Court at Calcutta. 

(560—4) 


KABBAHADUR KHARGA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(561—4) 


SHR1 A .TIT KUMAR SINHA ROY, LL.B., intend® to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(662 — 4) 


SHRI BAIDYANATT1 CHAKRABARTI, LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(563 — 4) 


SHRI NANDALAL MUKHOFADHYAY, LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(564 — 4) 


SHRI SATYENDRA NATH DUTTA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(565 — 4) 


NIRAD KUMAR BASU, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 

ail Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 

(590—4) 


ATMA RAM SARAOG1, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(599 — 4) 


APURBA KUMAR MALL1CK, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Ath ocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(600—4) 


SHIU UAMDEH DAS, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(606-4) 


SHRI DHIRENDRA NATH BATABYAL, LL.B., intends 
to be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(611-4) 


SHRI BENAY KUMAR SAHA, M.A., LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(566—4) 


SHIU PIJUSH KANTI ROY, LL.B., intends to be enroll- 
ed as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(012—4) 


SHRI AJIT KUMAR CHATTOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends 
to be enrolled ae an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(567—4) 


SHRI SUNIRMAL PRATIHAR, M.A., LL.B., intends to 
lie enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(568-4) 


BARINDR'ANATH RAY, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(569—4) 


SHRI RHTTPATI RANJAN SENGUPTA intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(613—4) 


SHRI BIMALA KANTA DE SARKAR, LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(614—4) 


SHRI ANIL KUMAR MUKHERJKE, LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(615—4) 


aQTABHA RAY, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as an 
advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(589 — 4) 


SHRI SWADESH RANJAN BANERJEE, LL.B., intends 
to be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(616—4) 


278 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


[Part q 


WEST BENGAL FINANCIAL OORFOftATION 
P/ll Mission Row Extension, Calcutta. 

NOTICE 

IT i8 hereby notified that the following auditors have been 
validly nominated for election as one ot the auditors ol 
the Corporation for the year ending the 31st March 1963: — 

(1) Messrs. S. K. Bhattachariya <fe Co., Chartered 

Accountants, 7 Old Post Office Street, Calcutta. 

(2) Messrs. Gupta Chowdhury & Ghosh, Chartered 

Accountants, 12 Chowringhee Square, Calcutta. 

2. The election of one out of the two abovementioned 
auditors will take place at the annual general meeting of 
the Corporation to he held on the 22nd June 1962 or any 
adjournment thereof. 

M. K. ADHIKARI, Managing Director. 
Calcutta, 8th June 1962. 

(617 — 1) 


COMPANIES ACT, 1966 

NOTICE UNDER 8ECTION MO 

Re.: Messrs. Banaras Art Museum (P) Ltd. 

NOTICE is hereby given that a meeting of the members 
and creditors of the company is to be held on 16th July 
1962 at 2/1 Mission Row, top floor, Calcutta-1, at 3 p.m. 
to pass the following resolution w r ith or without modifica- 
tion and also to appoint a suitable liquidator: — 

“Resolved that the Company be wound up in view of 
the present position of the Company.” 

For Banaras Art Museum (P) Ltd. 
HARI KRISHNA DAS, 
Director. 

Dated, the 8th June 1962. 

(610-1) 


H 'jgftttftd No . C207 

l 





JYAISTHA 24 1 


THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 1962 


[ SAKA 1884 


PART LA — Orders and Notifications of the Government of India; Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission* India; and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 
and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India’ 9 are only 
republished. 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, the 19th May 1962. 

NOTIFICATIONS 

No. WB-LA/31 /*62(35). — In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules v 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies 
the name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below, who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency 
specified in column 2 thereof, at the election held 
in 1962 has, in accordance with the decision given 
today by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) 
of the said rule, failed to lodge any account of his 
election expenses and will accordingly become 
subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of 
section 7 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, on the expiration of two months from the date 
of the said decision. 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1962. 

No. WB-LA/ 3/62(38). - — In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies 
the name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below, who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency 
specified in column 2 thereof, at the election held 
in 1962 has, in accordance with the decision given 
today by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) 
of the said rule, failed to lodge any account of his 
election expenses and will accordingly become 
subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of 
section 7 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, on the expiration of two months from the date 
of the said decision. 


Schedule 


Schedule 

Name and address of Name of 

contesting candidate Constituency 


1 2 

Shri Fagu Hasda, village 
Sandhia, post office Deha- 
band, district West 
Dinajpur . . Itahar 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secretary, 
Election Commission, India. 


Name and address of Name of 

contesting candidate Constituency 


1 2 

Shri Bijendra Narayan Barma, 
village Golenowhati, post 
office Sitalkuchi, district 
Cooch Behar . . Sitalkuchi 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secretary, 
Election Commission, India. 


110 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 14, 1962 


[Paht tA 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1962. 

No. WB-LA 48/62(40). — In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies 
the name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below, who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency 
specified in column 2 thereof, at the election held 
in 1962 has, in accordance with the decision given 
today bv the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) 
of the said rule, failed to Iodide any account of his 
election expenses and will accordingly become 
subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of 
section 7 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, on the expiration of two months from the date 
of the said decision. 


Schedule 

Name and address of Name of 

contesting candidate Constituency 

1 2 

Shri Naimuddin Mandal, post 
office and village Gudhia, 
district Murshidabad ... Murshidabad 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secretary, 
Election Commission, India. 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1962. 

No. WB-LA 7 62(42). - In pursuance of sub- 

rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies 
the name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below, who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency 
specified in column 2 thereof, at the election held 
in 1962 has, in accordance with the decision given 
today by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) 
of the said rule, failed to lodge any account of his 
election expenses and will accordingly become 
subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of 
section 7 of the Reprcsentoti on of the People Act, 


1951, on the expiration of two months from the date 
of the said decision. 


Schedule 

Name and address of 
contesting candidate 

1 . 


Name of 
Constituency 

2 


Shri Bircndra Nath Chakra- 
borty, Viswa Singh Road, 

^ost office and district Cooch 

Behar Tufanganj 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secretary, 
Election Commission, India. 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1962. 


No WB-LA/ 38/ 62(45). — In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies 
the name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below, who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency 
specified in column 2 thereof, at the election held 
in 1962 has, in accordance with the decision given 
today by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) 
of the said rule, failed to lodge any account of his 
election expenses and will accordingly become 
subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of 
section 7 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, on the expiration of two months from the date 
of the said decision. 


Schedule 


Name and address of 
contesting candidate 

1 

Shri Krishna Kripal Satiar, 
Golapatti, post office Malda, 
district Malda 


Name of 
Constituency 

2 


Englishbazar 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secretary, 
Election Commission, India. 



SUPPLEMENT — Official Paper# 

hub No. 312 STATE STATISTICAL BUREAU, WEST BENGAL 

TABLE I 

Cost of living indexes, Calcutta and wholesale price index (week ending 9th June 1962) 


Alblndia wbol«nale 

Coat of living index — Baue : November, 1950. price Index*. 


Period. 



Expenditure level 

(in lla.) 


— «! 

t 

B»Se, 

' — —% 

Converted 


1 — 

... , - . j 

100 

1 01 - — 200 


201 — 

- 80 O 


November 


r ’ 

All 

■ ■ i 

Food. 

All Food. 

r 

All 

“ m,m \ 

Food. 


base. 


items. 


item*. 


items. 




a) 

( 2 ; 

(3) 

(-0 

(5) 

<e> 

(1) 

<*) 

(9/ 

iT) 4 January 

93-9 

88*8 

91*1 

88*4 

04*7 

88*6 

... 


Apnl 

96*2 

90*4 

or. *6 

90 • 1 

9o*3 

90*1 

. . 

r 

July 

94*0 

89*4 

91*4 

89»r> 

94*7 

89*0 



Ontc.h <r 

95*3 

91*8 

y-**3 

91*4 

95*6 

91*3 

- 

... 

Junuary 

9o*7 

84*7 

9i *1 

84*4 

91*7 

84 *f. 

•» • 


Apnj 

- 89*9 

83*0 

0o*5 

83*7 

91*2 

84*0 

88*9 

82*# 

July 

9i*l 

85*6 

9>6 

85*8 

99*0 

85*8 

92*9 

80*0 

October 

93* 7 

89*7 

93-9 

89-4 

94 .O 

88*0 

99*6 

83*0 

^ r - January 

90-9 

84-8 

91*0 

84*0 

91*2 

83*7 

95-3 

88*2 

April 

.. 95*2 

91*6 

94 • 8 

90*4 

94*6 

89*6 

100*0 

92*6 

July 

.. 99*6 

98*0 

98*7 

96*3 

97*8 

94*7 

103*5 

95*8 

October 

102*4 

101*3 

100*7 

08*9 

99*4 

96*9 

106*7 

98*8 


Bevised eerie* (Base : 1952-52) and tbe corresponding converted series. 



SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 21, 1962 


Period. 


1967 January 
April 
July 
October 


Cost of living index — B«« : November, 1980. 


Expenditure level (in Re.) 


1—100 


101—200 


98*4 

100*6 

106*0 

107-6 


94*6 
98 -0 
106 -8 
107-0 


97*0 

98*9 

104*1 

106*7 


91*9 
96 *6 
108 *0 

104 0 


201—860 



t 

All 

items. 

Food. 

r 

Ail 

items. 

- 1 \ 
Food. 

All 

items, 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(6) 

<«) 


96 *2 

97 *0 
102*7 
104 0 


Food. 


(?) 


90 *3 
93*6 
100*7 
102*3 


All-Indie wholesale 
pries index*. 


Base, 

1962-68. 


( 8 ) 


Converted 

with 

November 
1950 m 
base. 


107 *3 
106 *6 
111*9 

108 *9 


(») 

99 -4 
98-0 
103 *0 
UMi -8 


1968 January 
April 
July 
October 


105 -0 

106 -0 
109 *4 
113*3 


101 *8 
103*1 
107 -6 
114*3 


103 *1 

104 -4 
107*9 
111 *2 


98*1 
100 *2 
104-9 
113*3 


101 *8 
103*2 
100*7 
109*8 


96 *4 
9; -9 
102 -6 
108*6 


106*0 
107 *4 
114 7 
116*2 


98-2 
99*5 
100 -2 
107 i 


1969 January 
April 
July 
October 


104*6 

105*8 

110*4 

114*6 


97 *2 

102 *‘.4 

96 *6 

102 *7 

94*6 

112-3 

iC4 -0 

1U0*9 

105 *1 

99 *4 

104 *6 

98 *2 

m e 

193 -0 

108*3 

109 2 

106*1 

108*1 

104 *0 

116-8. 

1O8 £ 

116*0 

113*0 

113*4 

111 *6 

111 *0 

m-3 

no*6 


I960 January 
April 
July 
October 


110*4 108*3 

110*5 108*0 

114-4 118*9 

114*4 113-6 


108*6 106-3 

108*9 106-2 

112-8 111*6 

113*2 111-6 


107 *5 103 *2 

107 *9 103 *3 

111-6 109*6 

112*2 110 -4 , 


118*8 HO- 1 

120-6 1116 

124*7 115 6 

126*3 117-9 


1961 January 
February 
March 
April 
May 
June 
July 
August 
September 
October 
November 
Deoember 


lf ;9 -7 106-0 

110-0 106*1 

110-9 106*1 

112*2 108*2 

112*1 107*8 

118*7 110*1 

116-2 114*1 

117*9 116*8 

118*0 116*4 

119*9 119*7 

120-3 120*4 

117 *0 114*6 


108*7 103*2 

109*6 104*3 

109 -9 104 -6 

111*4 107*2 

111*4 107*0 

112*7 109*1 

116*1 113*2 

116-6 115*7 

116*6 115*2 

118*2 119*2 

118*4 118-4 

116*3 112*6 


108-4 102-3 
109*0 103 3 
109 -6 lo3 9 
111*0 106*6 
111-0 106*6 
112*1 108*4 
114*2 112*2 
116*6 114*6 
115*4 113*8 
116*9 110*7 
116*9 110*6 
114*1 Hl*l 


126*6 lifl • 

126*7 11 W 

127*6 11*1 

126*8 110*5 

126*3 1160 

126*9 110‘ e 

128*7 HU-- 

127*4 ll** 1 ' 

124*6 H* w 

124*4 l* 6 ' 2 

124*3 I* 5 1 

122*9 M'* 


1962 January 
February 
March 
April 


114-4 

110*1 

112*8 

114-3 

109-7 

112*8 

116-6 

112-0 

114*1 

119-1 

117-7 

117*3 


108*0 

112-1 

107*0 

107*7 

112-1 

106*0 

110*1 

113-3 

108*9 

116*8 

116-1 

114*4 


123*3 

124-3 l 15 ' 1 

123*6 1 14 ‘* 


Week ending 

1 2 * 6-62 
19-6-62 
26-5-62 
2 - 6-62 
9-6-62 


119*9 118*8 118*0 

119- 4 118*0 117*6 

119*0 117*5 117*1 

119*9 118*8 117*8 

120*0 119*0 118*0 

* Revised series (Base i 1962-68) and 


110*8 116*7 115*3 

116*0 116*2 114*6 

H5.4 116*8 118*8 

116*6 116*5 115*0 

116*9 116*7 115*4 

the corresponding eon varied series* 


126*0 
126 5 


110 *' 

117* 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 21, 1962 


CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR THE IMPROVE- 
MENT OF CALCUTTA 

Notice under section 43 of the Calcutta Improvement 
Act, 1911 (Bengal Act V of 1911) 

SCHEME NO. XC (PARK AT KALIGHAT ROAD) 

i. It is notified under section -13 of the Calcutta 
Improvement Act, 1911, that a General Improvement 
Scheme, for the purpose of improving die area as 
regards light, air, ventilation, etc., and/or the provi- 
>nn of recreational facilities by providing for a Park 
i.i the Kalighat Road area, to be known as Scheme 
N '• XC (Park at Kalighat Road) has been framed by 
ilv board of Trustees for the Improvement of 
Calcutta in the above area in Ward No. 67 of the 
(mporalion of Calcutta. 

The Boundary of the area comprised in the 
kikhi e, shown within red verge on plan, is as 

M.inws : 

On the North: Starting fiom the south-western 
comer of premises No. 61 / 1, Harish Chatterjce 
Street, running eastwards in a straight line to 
the north -western corner of premises No. 22A, 
Gobinda Ghosal Lane; from this point running 
eastwards along the not them boundary of 
premises No. 22A, Gobinda Ghosal Lane to its 
noi ih-easlem corner. 

On the East: From this point mnning south 
eastwards m a straight lme to the south- 
eastern corner of piemises No H, Kalighat 
Road; from this point run n me outhwards in 
a straight line the south-4. .r -cm corner of 
premises Nos. 49B, 49C, 49D. Kalighat Road. 

On tfyc South: From this poin; running west- 
wards in a straight line for a distance of 128 ft. 
to a point on the southern boundary of the 
same premises situated at a distance of about 
2*5 ft. irom the south-eastern corner of 
premises No. 53B, Kalighat Road: from this 
point running westwards along the southern 
boundary of premises Nos. 49B, 19C, 49D, 

Kalighat Road to the south-eastern corner of 
premises No. 53B, Kalighat Road; from this 
point running north-westwards in a straight 
line to the south-western corner of premises 
No. 49C, Harish Chatterjce Street. 

On the West: From this point running north 
wards in a straight line to the starting point. 

'■ The particulars of the scheme, a plan showing 

- scheme area and a statement of the lands pro- 
N v -cf for acquisition and for levy of betterment fee 

be inspected at the office of the Trust at 10 
;) 'hi Subhas Road, Calcutta, between the hours 
J: a ni and 3 p.m. on weekdays and between hours 
]| and 12-00 p.m. on Saturdays. 

Copies will be available on payment of the follow- 
< fees : — - 

Particulars and other information of the scheme 

-Re. 0.25. 

PHn of the Scheme area — Re. 1.00. 

Statement of land proposed for acquisition or for 
levy of betterment fee — Re. 0.25. 



4. Objections to the scheme will be received ur 
to the* 25th August 1962. 


5. Under section 6A of the Land Acquisition Act, 
1894, as introduced bv the schedule to the Calcutta 
Improvement Act, 1911, as amended by the West 
Bengal Act XXX11 of 1955; the publication of this 
notice shall have the same effect as the publication 
of notification under section 4 of the Land Acquisi- 
tion Act, 1894. 


K. SEN, 
Chairman. 


Dated, Calcutta, the 25th May 1962. 


SCHEME No. LXXXV1II (Natabar Dutta Row to 
Dharamtala Street) 


L It is notified under section U of the Calcutta 
Improvement Act that a Street Scheme to be known 
as Scheme No. LXXXV11I t Natabar Dutta Row to 
Dhaiamtala Street) for the purpose ol creating new', 
or improving existing means o! communication and 
facilities for tiallic, remedying defective ventilation, 
providing building sites and affording better facilities 
for conservancy has been framed by the Board of 
irusfccs for the Improvement of Calcutta. 

2. The boundary af the area comprised in the 
Scheme, shown within red verge on plan, is as 
follows: — 


On the North: Starting from the north-western 
corner of premises No. 36, Sasi Bhusan Dey 
Street and running eastwards along the south- 
ern edge of Ramkanai Adhikary Lane to its 
junction with Sasi Bhusan Dey Street, then in 
a straight line eastward across Sasi Bhusan 
Dey Street and Natabar Dutta Row' to the 
north-western corner of premises No. 8/2A, 
Natabar Dutta Row. 

On the East: From that point running south- 
wards in a straight line along the eastern edge 
ol Natabar Dutta Row for a distance of 116 1ft. 
then eastwards along the northern edge of 
Natabar Dutta Row for a distance of 34 ft. 
then running towards south in a straight line 
to the south-eastern corner of premises' No. 29, 
SankharitoIIa Street, then southwards in a 
straight line to a point on the eastern edge 
of Ram Chandra Das Row' situated at a dis- 
tance of 110 ft. from its junction with Dharam- 
tala Street measured along the eastern edge 
of the Ram Chandra Das Row. 

On the South: From that point running west- 
wards in a straight line to a point on the 
eastern edge of Indian Mirror Street situated 
at a distance of 75 ft. from its junction with 
Dharamtala Street measured along the eastern 
edge of Indian Mirror Street. 



238 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 21,1962 


On the West: From that point running porth- 
wards to the north-eastern junction of Creek 
Row and Phalgun Das Lane; then running 
along the eastern edge of Phalgun Das Lane 
to the south-eastern junction of Gokul Boral 
Street and Phalgun Das Lane then in a 
straight line towards north to the north- 
western corner of premises No. 11/ ID, 
Thakurdas Palit Lane, then running north-east- 
wards in a straight line to the starting point. 


3. Further particulars of the Scheme, a plan 
showing the Scheme area and a statement of the 
lands proposed for acquisition or for levy of better- 
ment fee may be inspected at the Trust office at 
10 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, between 1 1 a.m. 
and 3 p.m. on weekdays and 11 a.m. and 12-30 p.m. 
on Saturday. 


4. Copies of the above documents will be avail- 
able on payment of the following fees: — 

Particulars and other information of the Scheme 
—Re. 0.25 * 

Statement of land proposed for acquisition or for 
levy of betterment fee — Re. 0.25 

Plan of the Scheme area — Re. 1.00. 

5. Objections to the Scheme will be received up 
to 31st August 1962. 

6. Under section 6A of the Land Acquisition Act, 
1894, as introduced by the schedule to the Calcutta 
Improvement Act, 1911, as amended by the West 
Bengal Act XXXII of 1955, the publication of this 
notice shall have the same effect as the publication 
of notification under section 4 of the Land Acquisi- 
tion Act. 

K. SEN, 
Chairman. 

Dated, Calcutta, the 26th May 1962. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at til# West Bengal Government Press, Alipore. 


jM$tsUwd No. C207 


©hr 






IYAISTHA31) THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 1962 




[ SAKA 1884 


PART II — Advertisements, Notices 

Procedure retarding sanding Manuscripts for publication of Advertisements, Notices, cto., in the 

fCaloutta Gazette 91 (Part II). 

. 1. Manuscripts should bs properly edited and complete in Itself. 

2. Manuscripts should always be typewritten on one side of the paper. The name of signatory should be typewritten 
ttlow the signature. 

3 Manuscripts intended lor advertisement in the next Issue of “Calcutta Gazette" shall be received by Publication Sales 
Ogee ef New Secretariat Buildings, 1 Hastings Street, Calcutta, up to 3-30 p. m. on Friday and at Head Office at Allpore up to 
11a.m. on Saturday. 

4 All costs shall be paid in advance and deposited along with the manuscripts. 

5 Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING (PUBLICATION 
BRANCH), WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS. ALIPORE. 

The press shall not be held responsible for delay In publication of any advertisement due to the non-observance of the 
Instructions detailed above.* " 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 


Advertisement No. 24 

APPLICATIONS aro invited fur undermentioned posts 
Dorn Indian citizens and persons of Indian origin migrated 
ti mu Pakistan with intention oi permanently settling in 
India, subjects of Nepal, Sikkim or State ot londicherry, 
iand persons domiciled in Goa, Daman and Diu. Age lim 8 
relaxabie for Government servants, except where otherwise 
specified. Upper age limits relaxabie by five years lor 
bedded Castes and Scheduled Tribes candidates and up 
Ui 45 \ears for displaced persons from Pakistan. >o 
ri'liixalmn lor others, save in exceptional cucumstances, 
*'iid will hi no case he relaxed beyond a limit oi three 
jrars Qualifications relaxablo at Commission's discretion 
in case of candidates otherwise well qualified. Particular* 
a «d application forms obtainable from Secretary, 1 ~ n P ) . n 
Public Service Commission, Post Box No. 186, New Delhi, 
acquest lor forms must specify name ot post and should 
accompanied by self-addressed unstamped envelope lor 
post at least of size 9"x4" indicating thereon name 
01 posts for which forms are required. Closing date lot 
receipt of application with treasury receipt or crossed 
Indian Postal Order for Its. 7.50 nP. (1.87 nP for 
d'ikd Castes and Scheduled Tribes) the 16th July 196-/ 
'•^th July 1962 for applicants from abroad). Commission 
Dui V remit genuinely indigent and bona lido displaced 
Persons’ fee. Separate application with separate tee 
r * ,f l Hired for each post. Candidates abroad may apply on 
paper if forms are not available and deposit iee with 
lf nal Indian Embassy. Tf, required candidates must 
a PP ( ‘ar tor personal interview. 

*}' °ne Superintendent, Training Centre for the Adult 
■Hnd, Dehra Dun, Ministry of Education. Post permanent 
y , , reserved for Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidate; if rto 
suitable candidate available, will bo treated a a 


unreserved. Pays Rs. 5(K1 — 3(V— 800— -E.B. — 30— »-830 — 85 — 
900 (Revised scale). Higher initial pay to specially quali- 
fied and experienced candidate. Age: 45 years and below. 
Quaimoationti Essential — (i) Degree of a recognised 
University, (ii) About three years’ teaching and/or supei- 
visory experience in any industrial or vocational training 
institution, (in) About two years’ experience in an insti- 
tution for the blind. 

2. One Physical Training Instructor, Dairy Seienoe 
College, National Dairy Research Institute, Karnai. Post 
temporary but likely to continue on long term basis and 
finally converted into a permanent one. Pay* Rs. 825 — 15 
— 475 — -E.ll. — 20 — 575. liigher initial pay to specially 
qualified and experienced candidate. Ages 35 years and 
below. Qualifications: Essential —(i) Degree ol a recog- 
nised University, (n) Diploma in Physical Education ol » 
recognised Institution, (ui) About three years’ experience 
in imparting physical education in a recognised institution. 

8 . One Virus Pathologist (8eed Certification), Central 
Potato Research Institute. Post tempo: ary but likely to 
conn mu*. Post reserved for Scheduled Tribes candidate if 
such suitable candidate is available, otherwise' treated 
unreserved. Pay: Rs. 400 — 40 — 800 — 50— 9-50. Higher initial 
pay to specially qualified and expeneneed cjfhclidalc. Age: 
35 years and below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) Master’s 
degree in Botany or Agriculture of recognised University 
or equivalent with post-graduate training in Plant Patho- 
logy and Mycology with special reference to plant vihiAAs 
(Or) Associatcsbip of 1. A. R. 1. in Plant Pathology And 
Mycology with special refoience to plant viruses, (ii) Abdut 
three years’ experience of reseat ch in problems relatiiig 
to plant viruses preferably as they affect potatc crop as 
evidenced by published papers. 

4. Two Assistant Research Officers (Craft and Goar), 
Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Ministry of Food 
and Agriculture. Posts temporary but likely to contmwe 


280 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 


21 , 19?2 



indefinitely. One post reserved for Scheduled Castes can- 
didate if such suitanle candidate is available otherwise posts 
treated unreserved. Payi Rs. 350 — 25 — 500 — 30 — 500 — E.B. 

30— 800— E.B. — 30 — 830 — 35—900. Higher initial pay to 
specially qualified and experienced candidate. Agi: 35 
years and below. Qualifications! Essential — (i) Master's 
degree in Science or equivalent or degree in Naval Archi- 
tecture /Mechanical /Electrical Engineering of recognised 
University or equivalent, (ii) Research / practical experience 
in Craft and Gear Technology / designing and construction 
of boats, of about two years. 

5. One Assistant Ecfuoatlonal Adviser, Ministry Of 
Education. Post temporary but likely to continue. Post 
reserved for Scheduled Castes / Tribes candidate; if no such 
suitable candidate available, the post will be treated a6 
unreserved. Pay i Rs. 900—50 — 1,250 (Revised). Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age: 40 years and below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) At 
least second (‘lass Master’s Degree of a recognised Univer- 
sity, or equivalent, (ii) About seven years’ experience of 
teaching and/or educational administration and/or specia- 
lised experience in the field of Basic, Secondary or 
University Education. 

0. One Assistant Researoh Officer, Ministry of External 
Affairs. Post temporary but likely to continue. Pay: 

R*. 350 — 25 — 500 — 30 — 590 — E . B 3()— 800. Higher initial 

pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. AgC: 
40 years and below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) At least 
second class Master’s or equivalent Honours Degree in 
History, Politics. Economics or International Relations of 
a recognised University, (ii) About three years’ experience 
in a responsible post in any organisation or institution 
connected with international affairs, (iii) Knowledge of 
current affairs. 

7. One Assistant Director of Music In the Films Divi- 
sion, Ministry of Information and Broadoastlng. Post 
permanent, but- appointment to be made on a five year 
renewable contract basis. Candidates selected lor inter- 
view will bring with them specimens of their compositions. 
Pay: Rs. 590 — 30 — 300. Higher initial pay to specially 
qualified and experienced candidate. Age: 40 years and 
below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) Adequate knowledge 
of the theory, and competence in practice of Indian Music, 
(ii) About 3 years’ experience in comjwsition of Indian 
music. 

8 . Four Assistant Supervisors, Hindi Teaching Soheme, 
Ministry of Home Affairs. Posts temporary but likely to 
continue. Two posts reserved for Scheduled Castes candi- 
dates and one for Scheduled Tribes candidate; if no such 
suitable candidates available, all the posts will be treated 
as unreserved. Pay: Rs. 350 — 25 — 575. Higher initial pay 
to specially qualified and experienced candidates. Age: 
Between 35 and 45 years. Qualifications: Essential — 

(i) Second Class Master’s or equivalent Honour’s degree 
in Hindi of a recognised University, or any other Oriental 
Diploma in Hindi which is considered of equivalent 
standard; (Dr) Second Class Master’s or equivalent 
Honour’s degree in any subject other than Hindi provided 
that Hindi has been taken by the candidate as one the 
elective subjects in B.A. or B.A. (Hons.) Degree Course. 

(ii) Degree or Diploma in Education of a recognised 
University / Institution. 

9. Two Supervisor*, Hindi Teaching Scheme, Ministry 
Of Homo Affairs. Post temporary but likely to continue. 
One post reserved for Scheduled Castes and the other for 
Scheduled Tribes candidate; if uo such suitable candidates 
available, both the posts will be treated as unreserved. 
Pay: Rs. 400—25 — 500 — 30 — 650. Higher initial pay to 
specially qualified and experienced candidates. Ago: 
Between 35 and 45 years. QuallftoationSt Esaantial — (i) At 
least second class Master’s or equivalent Honours degree in 
Hindi of a recognised University, or equivalent qualification 
in oriental learning of a recognised University with English 
as a subject, (ii) Decree /Diploma in Education of a 
recognised University /Institution, (iii) About five years’ 
experience of teaching Hindi through the medium of 
English. 

10. Eleven Civil Assistant Surgeons, Qrads I, and Lady 
Civil Assistant 8urgsons, Qrads I, Medical Department, 
Tripura Administration. Posts temporary but likely to 
continue. Other things being equal, preference will be 
given to Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidates. Pay: Rs. 325 
— 25 — 500 — 30- -590 — E.B. — 30—800. Higher initial pay to 


specially qualified and experienced candidates. An. 
Between 25 and 30 years. Qualifications: Esssntlai ^ 

Medical qualification included in the First or Second SeW 
dule or Part II of Third Schedule to the Indian Methr 
Council Act, 1956. [Holders of educational qualification 
included in Part II of Third Schedule should also fulfil thi 
conditions laid down in Section 13(3) of the Act' 
(ii) About two years’ experience as House Surgeon or J 
private practice or in public health. (Licentiates who h at , 
already to their credit two years’ experience in Service ^ 
Private practice prior to their obtaining basic Mcdi^ 
qualification, may be deemed to have fulfilled the necessar? 
requirement regarding two years’ experience). 

11. (I) One Superintendent, Remand Home for Girt: 

and (if) one Lady Superintendent, Certified School 
Women, Directorate of Sooial Welfare, Delhi Admlni* 
tratlon. Posts temporary but likely to continue. One post 
reserved for Scheduled Tribes / Castes candidate; if no mi ' b 
suitable candidate available, both the posts will be treaty 
as unreserved. Applications invited from women candidate 
only. Pay: R s . 325— 15-475— E.B.— 20— 575. High* 

initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate 
Age: 35 years and below. Qualifications: EssentlaC 

(i) Degree of a recognised University in a social sc-iem* 
subject, e.g., Sociology. Economics, Anthropology or Puli, 
tics, (ii) Diploma in Social Work of a recognised Urnm. 
sity/ Institution. 

12. One Associate Bacteriologist, Central Drugs Labor* 
tory, Calcutta, Directorate General of Health Services, 

Post permanent, but appointment will be made on tern- 
]>orary basis in lien vacancy. Pay: Rs. 350 — 25 — 500— diu. 
590 — E.B. — 30 — 800. Private practice of any kind will n* 
be allowed. Higher initial pay to specially qualified an3 
experienced candidate. Age: 35 years and* below. Quale 
float Ions: Essential — (i) A Medical qualification inolmld 
in the First or Second Schedule or Part II of Third S( he. 
dule to the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956, with s]>eeia. 
lisation in Bacteriology. [Holders of educational quaM. 
cations included in Part II of Third Schedule should aKo 
fulfil the conditions laid down in Section 13(3) of the Ait.’ 

(ii) About three years’ training in a Bacteriological labora- 
tory or in an institution manufacturing biological pro- 
ducts. (iii) Practical experience in routine bacteriologn^ 
testing and media making, including about one yeat > 
experience in Microbiological 'assay of vitamins and 
antibiotics. 

13. One Assistant Director (Entomology), National 
Filarla Control Programme, Malaria Institute of India, 
Delhi, Ministry of Health. Post temporary and likelv to 
last up to the end of National Filaria Control Programme 
Pay: Rs. 700 — 40 — 1,100 — 50 — 1,300. Private practice of 
any kind, including laboratory and consultant practice will 
not be allowed. Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
and experienced candidate. Age: 40 vears and below 
Qualifications: Essential— (i) A Medical qualification 
included in the First or Second or Part II of Third Sche- 
dule to the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956; Or Post- 
graduate Degree in Medical Entomology; Or Post-graduat* 
Degree in Zoology with special training m Entomology : 
(ii) Training in Malaria or Filaria (iii) About five year?' 
experience in Malaria or Filaria research with special' 
reference to insecticides and entomology, (iv) Experience 
m assessment of malaria or fiilaria control results. 

14. One Senior Researoh Assistant, Resources Survey 
Studies, Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Ministry of 
Food and Agrieultura. Post temporary but likelv to con- 
tinue indefinitely. Post reserved for Scheduled Tribes 
Castes candidate if such suitable candidate is available: 
otherwise post will be treated as unreserved. Pay: Rs 

— 15 — 475— E.B. — 20 — 575. Higher initial pav to specialty 
qualified and experienced candidate. A gai *35 vears ana 
below. Qualifications: Essential— (i) Master’s decree m 
Agricultural Botany or Botany of recogniesed Uni verity 
or equivalent, (ii) About two years’ research experience in 
Botany or Agricultural Botany. 

15. One Deputy Dlreotor (General), Ministry of Fow 
and Agriculture. Post temporary but likely to continue 
indefinitely. Post reserved for Scheduled Tribes candidate* 
who alone need apply. Pay: Rs. 700—40 — 1 100— -3° 
1,250. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and expen- 
enced candidate. Agt: 45 years and below. Qualification*; 
Essential: (a) Degree of a recognised IJniversitv. (b) 4^ ,IJ n 
5 years’ practical experience in a responsible* capacity » 
the administration of food, such as import, purcw*« 


Pabt II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 21, 1962 


281 


marketing and procurement of foodgrains or foodstuffs in 
a Government Department or a commercial firm of repute, 
(c) Administrative experience. 


m One Animal NutNtlon Officer, Central Arid Zone 
Research Institute, Judhpur, Ministry of Food and Agri- 
eiilture. Post temporary but likely to continue indefinitely. 
Post reserved for Scheduled Castes / Tribes candidates if 
cm*h suitable candidate available; otherwise, to be treated 
« s unreserved. Pays Rs. 350 — 350 — 380 — 380 — 30-590--- 
v B 30 — 770—40 — 850 (subject to revision in the light of 
recommendations of the Pay Commission). Higher initial 
nav to specially qualified and experienced candidate. Agai 
S. 5 ' years and below. Qualifications t Essential— (i) Master’s 
Decree in Chemistry, Bio-Chemistry or Physiology of a 
recognised University. Or Degree /Diploma in Veterinary 
Science of a recognised University /Institution with Post- 
graduate training in Animal Nutrition, (ii) About three 
tears’ research experience in Animal Nutrition. 


17 (A) Two Senior Scientific Officer*, Grade I and (B) 

four Senior Scientific Officers, Grade II, Research and 
Development Organisation, Ministry of Defence. Posts 
temporary but likely to become permanent. Both the posts 
of (A) and three posts of (B) for Scheduled Castes and one 
nf (B) for Scheduled Tribes candidates reserved and only 
such candidates need apply. Payi (A) Rs. 700—50 1,250. 

(B) Rs. 400 — 40 — 800 — 50 — 950. Higher initial pay to 
M>*rially qualified and experienced candidates. Ages For 
A) Preferably above 35 years and for (B) Preferably below 
4 (i years for all including Government servants. Qualifi- 
cations: Essential— For (A)— (For one post): (i) Research 
degree or first class Master’s degree in Physics followed by 
good research work in any one of the following fields; 
(a) Magnetic; resonance studies; (b) Stricture studies 
including imperfections in solids; (o) Semi-conductor 
Physics; (d) Infra-red Studies in Solids. (For the 2nd 
post): (i) Research degree or first class Master’s degree 
in physical /inorganic chemistry. (Or) 2nd class degree in 
Metallurgy or its equivalent, (ii) Three years’ experience 
m the extraction, purification and processing of Somi- 
londuetor materials. For (B) (For 2 posts): (i) Research 
degree or first class Master’s degree in Physics followed 
by^good research work in any one of the following fields; 
(a) Semi-conductor Physics; (b) X-ray Crystallography; 
(c) Metals and Alloys; (d) Magnetic Resonance; (e) Low 
temperature Physics; (f) Luminiseence, Phosphorescence, 
etc; and (g) Ferro-eleetrieity. (For 2 other posts): 
(i) Research degree or first class Master’s degree in Physi- 
cal /Inorganic Chemistry (or) 2nd class degree in Metal- 
lurgy or its equivalent, (ii) About one year’s experience 
in any one of the following fields: (a) Extraction, Purifica- 
tion and processing of Semi-conductor ; (b) Growing of 

sinrie crystals of Solids; (o) Design and Fabrication of 
infra-red optical components; (d) Analysis and estimation 
of impurities solids. 


Corrigendum 


Recruitment of Nematologist, Indian Agricultural 
Research Institute, Ministry of Food and Agriculture. 

In partial modification of the Commission’s advertisement 
No. 16, item 7(b) published on 21st April 1962 it is notified 
for general information that the Essential Qualification (i) 
wav he read as follows: — 


“M.Sc, in Zoology/ Agriculture with specialisation in 
Nematology or in Entomology or Associateship of 
I.A.R.I. in Entomology”. 

Other conditions remain unchanged. Closing date extended 
to 2nd July 1962. 


•H THE COURT OF THE DI8TRICT JUDGE, COOCH 
BEHAR 

Insolvency Cate No. 1 of 1002 

JOTICE is hereby given that Jharial Bepari, son of late 
fiubaria Bepari, of Bhandijalish, police-station Kotwali, 
Strict Cooch Debar, has applied to this Court, by a 
Petition, dated 28 May 1962, to be declared insolvent. 
JJ* 12th day of July 1962 has been fixed for hearing 
twreof. 

N. C. MUKHERJI, District Judge. 
Behar, the 14th June 1962. 

[ (635—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE 2ND MUN8IF, ARRAN 
Title suit No. 105 Of 1061 

Muniraj Pandey, Plaintiff versus (1) Mukhram Pandey, 
son of Manan Pandey, (2) Ramayodhya Prasad, son 
of Devabansh Pandey, (3) Ghanshyam Pandey and 

(4) Ramautar Pandey — sons of Mukhratn Pandey, 

(5) A jit Kumar Pandey and (6) Ajoya Kumar Pandey 
— minor sens of Ramautar Pandey u/g of their father 
Ramautar Pandey. 

All residents of village Semriake Padaria Tola Mani 
Chapra, Pargana Arrah, Thana Barahra, district 
Shahabad. 

WHEREAS the abovenamed plaintiff has filed this Title 
suit in this court against the abovenamed defendants for 
removal of encroachment over plot No. 1906 in village 
Semaria Padaria Tola Mani Chapra. This notice is issued 
for general information. If any one has to file objection, 
he should appear in person or through pleader on 25th June 
1962 nt 6-30 a.m. in this court and do the needful other- 
wise the case would be taken up for ex parte hearing. 


The 5th June 1962. 


A. SINGH, Second Munsif, Arrah. 

(624—1) 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
(IN INSOLVENCY) 

Notloe of Adjudication Order No. 10 of 1082 

Re.: Moon Chew Tham, residing at No. 6/1, Macleod 
Street, Calcutta, and at present residing at No. 36, 
Phul Bagan Road, Calcutta, and working for gain with 
Messrs. Macneill & Berry of No. 2, Fairlie Place, in 
the town of Calcutta — Ex parte the debtor-In person. 

ON the 4th day of June 1962, an order was made by the 
High Court at Calcutta in its Insolvency Jurisdiction 
adjudging the abovenamed as an Insolvent. 

Note — All debts due to the estate should be paid to me. 

Dated this 14th day of June, 1962. 

M. M. CHAKRA BA RTTY , 
Official Assignee of Calcutta. 

6 Council House Street, Calcutta. 


SHRI BISWANATH SEN. LL.B^ intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(551—4) 


B1BHUTI BHUSAN BH AUMIK, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(562-4) 


A JIT KUMAR PRASAD, LL.B^ intends ^o be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(553—4) 


SUDHAMAY DAS, LL.B., intends to be enrolled ae an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(554-4) 


SANTOSH CHANDRA GUPTA, LL.B., intend* to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


282 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 21, 1962 


[Part fi 


H1MADRINATH MUKHOPADHYAY, intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 567 — 4 ) 


SYED MOHAMMED MASUD, LL.B., intends to be en- 
rolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(558—4) 


SHRJ TARITB1KAS DEB LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(659—4) 


SHRI SYAMAL KUMAR HAJRA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court at Calcutta. 

(500—4) 


NARBAHADUR KHARGA, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(561—4) 


SHRI AJIT KUMAR SINHA ROY, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(562-4) 


AMITABHA RAY, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as at 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court 

( 589 — 4 ' 


MR AD KUMAR BASU, LL.B., intends to be enrolled ai 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(590-4 


ATM A RAM SARAOGl, LL.B., intends to be enrolled at 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 599 - 4 ) 


APITRBA KUMAR MALLTCK, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(600-4) 


SHRI BAMDEB DAS. LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court., 

( 608 - 4 ) 


SHRI BAIDYANATH CHAKRABARTI LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(563—4) 


SHRI DJ1IRENDRA NATH BATABYAL, LL.B., intends 
to be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 611 - 4 ) 


SHRI NANDALAL MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled aB an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(564—4) 


SHRI SATYENDRA NATH DUTTA, LL.B., intends to be 
enrollod as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(565—4) 


SHRI BENAY KUMAR SAHA, M.A., LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(566-4) 


SHRI AJIT KUMAR CHATTOPADHYAY, LL.B., intends 
to be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(567-4) 


SHRI SUNIRMAL PRATIHAR, M.A., LL.B., intends to 
be enrollod as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 568 - 4 ) 


SHRT PI.TUSH KANTI ROY, LL.B., intends to be enroll- 
ed as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 612 - 4 ) 


SHRI BHFPATI RANJAN SENGUPTA, intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 613 - 4 ) 


SHBI BIMALA KANTA DE SARKAR, LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

<G14— 4> 


SHRI ANIL KUMAR. MUKHERJEE, LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 615 — 4 ) 


BARINDRANATH RAY, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


5HRI SWADESH RANJAN BANERJEE, BL.B.. W"* 
,o be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Coo 

(616 — 


( 669 — 4 ) 


Part II] 


TTIE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 21, 1962 


283 


HIIU'IS MBKHOl’AHllYAY. M..B., intends to bo enrolled 
a6 nil Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 


\1 VNOTOSIIDKH Ml’KIIOPAMIYAV I.L.B.. intends to 
[,<• enrolled as an Advocate ol the Calcutta High Court- 

(U22 — 4) 


IHND.WAI. II AllACAliKA. I.B.B., intends to 
as an Advocate ot the Calcutta High Court. 


be enrolled 
(623 — 1) 


1, SURKKWAR 
|), Nishikanla 
have applied L> 
the Bar Council 


1 HITT A., M. A., LL.B., son of late 
Dutiu. of 25 Guitandel Lam 1 , Howrah, 
bo admitted as an Advocate in the roll ot 


of West Bengal. 


(0% — 1) 


IN THE MATTER OF THE C0MPANI& AOT, 1956 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF BAJPAI MISRA AND CO., LTD. 

AT an Extraordinary General Meeting ol I lie abovenaiued 
Company duly convened and held at 21 Nalim Seth Road, 
Calcutta, on Friday, the 1st June 1962, the following 
1 evolution was duly passed as a Special resolution, vir,: 

•‘Resolved that the Company be wound up voluntarily 
under the provisions of sections 4K4 to .12 1 ol the Com- 
panies Act. 195b, and that the process ol winding up bo 
termed as ‘Creditors Voluntary Winding up’ 

By Order of the Board, 

For Bajpai Misra & Co., Ltd. 

K. K. BAJPAI, Director. 

Dated, 11th June 1962. 

(619—1) 


1 slIHI N All KNOR A NAT11 DC'ITA. son ol Slui Benodc 
It,.},,, n J)ultii ol no Mouol)ur|iiikur Bond. CnlcuHu-Ut, 
||.»VC applied lo be admitted as an Advocate in I he toll ol 
1 lie liar Council ol West Bengal. 


NOTICE 

i ■s|tt \i\\l>.\ MI'KIIOPAIHO \Y. son ol Sliri Uibliuti 
him .111 MiiUioii.idb.Viis. ol H New C.ile Slreel |iohl oHiee 
sci .1 iiipove, dislnd HooghK. Ii.n e oi»|dicl lo lie a.IlinUed 
\d\ 01 . 1 I 1 III Ibe toll ol the Bin Council ol West 

ll """ al - (<>33— I ) 


I IHI'ANKAl! 

Ill I'll* (in Ii.ihut 
admitted as an 
\\ est Bengal 


HASP, son ol laic Smlbiiondia Nath Basil, 
Road. Calcutta-29, ha c applied to be 
Advocate m the roll ot the Bai Council ol 

(634— 1 ) 


THE COMPANIES ACT, 1956 


MEMBERS' / CREDITORS' VOLUNTARY WINDING UP 

CALCUTTA POTTERIES LTD. 

Notice convening Anal meeting 

NOTICE is hereby given 111 pursuance ol section 497 that 
a General Mating ol the members ol I lie abovemiiiicd 
Company will be held at H Lyons Range. Caleutta-L on the 
25th July 1962 at 2 p.nr. and a mod mg of the creditors 
will be held at H Lyons Range, Calcutta- 1, on the 25th 
July ]!N)2 al 1 pm. lor the purpose ol having an ar count 
laid holoro them showing the maiiuei in winch lire winding 
up has been conducted and the property «d the Company 
disposed ol and ot hearing any explanation that may he 
given by the liquidnlot and also ol determining by a special 
resolution ol the Company by the creditors the manner in 
which the hooks, accounts and documents ol the Company 
and ol the liquidator shall ho disposed ol. 


Dated Sth June J962. 


P. R. SI! ARM A. Liquidator. 

(620- -1 f 


I Y\ RUN DR A Wm SENG LPT A 
\\TII SION, sou ol hi it R a pun Kanta 

I I id, irain Baneijee Lane. Cnleulta-L2, 
admitted as an Advocate in the roll ol 
West Bengal. 


alias N A RENDU A 
Sengupta, ol 52/1 B 
have applied to be 
the Bar Council ol 

(655 A — i ) 


NOTICE OF FINAL GENERAL MEETING 

IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 1956 
AND 

IN THE MATTER OF RAY, MAITY AND CO. PRIVATE 
LIMITED 

(IN VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION) 

-NOTICE is hereby given pursuant to section 497 of Uie 
^ompnnies Act. 1*956, that a general meeting of the share-- 
holders of the abovenamed Company will be held at the 
Office oi the Liquidator at No. 7 Hastings Street, Calcutta, 
Monday, the 16th day of July 1962, at 11-30 in the 
forenoon, to lay before it an account showing how the 
binding up ot the Company has been conducted, and (he 
Property oi the Company has been disposed ot and to give 
explanation thereof. 

S. K. BASU, 

Liquidator. 

L) ated the 12th June 1962. 

^ 0: All Shareholders of the Company. 


COMPANIES A(T, J956 

CREDITORS’ VOLUNTARY WINDING UP 

Notice of appointment of Liquidator pursuant to 
section 616 

Name oi Company: Bajpai Misra A Co., Ltd 

Nature ot Business: Dealers in gold, silvei and old 
coins. 

Address ol Registered Office: 24 Nidini Sclh Road, 
Calcutta. 

Name and Addiess oi Liquidator: Shri Makhan Lai 
Da man 1 , 72 Monohaidas Street, Caicufta-7. 

Date ol Appointment: 1st day ot June 1962. 

By whom Appointed: Members in General Meeting and 
approved and ratified by the creditors in their 
meeting held in pursuant to section 500 ot The 
Companies Act, 1956. 

MAKHAN LAL DAMAN!, Liquidator. 


(618 — 1) 


284 


TIM'] CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 21, 1962 


[Part u 


THE C<&MI88I0NERS FOR THE FORT OF 
CALCUTTTA 

Summary of the Minutes of the Proceedings of the 
Commissioners’ 4th Meeting, held on the 26th March 
1962. 

AT the Jth Meeting «>l ihc Commissioners hi Id on the 26lli 
Match 1962 *hc ini lowing business was transacted . — 

1. Application for a loan of Rs. 50 lakhs from Govern- 

ment for financing Third Five-Year Plan projects 
(comprising projects carried over from the Second 
Five-Year Plan and new projects): The Commis- 
sioners deluded to apply to Government i'or a loan 
of Its. 50 lakhs tor financing Thiid Five Yeai Plan 
piojcels (comprising projects carried over I rom the 
Second Five-Year Plan ami new projects). 

2. Creation of the post of Chief Hydraulic Engineer to 

hoad the Hydraulic Study Department: The ( om- 

missioimrs sanctioned, subject to the solution ot 
Government, the creation of a post of Chief 
llydiaulic Engine*, l with effect from the 1st Feb- 
ruary 1962. 

d. Stoppage of work by workshop employees: The 

papers wote recorded. 

I. Scheme for Re-oircuiation of dock water in Kidder- 
pore Docks— Third Five-Year Plan: The Commis- 
sioners sanctioned, subject to tin* sanction ot 
Government, as a charge to Capital an estimate ol 
Its. 65 lakhs tor the above work. 

>. Claims against the Railways In re&pect of payment 
of terminal charges at Increased rate on coal and 
supplementary charge on coal and general merchan- 
dise, etc.: The papers weie recorded. 

6. Accident to the S. S. “Rajah”: The Investigating 

Officer's i eeoni mendations wort i.pprovrd. 

7. Contribution of rs. 1 crore from the Revenue 

Reserve Fund to Capital for financing plan 

projects: The Commissionei s samTioncd the 

('Illinium’s proposal in the matter. 

8. Block proposals: The Commissioners also sanc- 

tioned routine establishment proposals and routine 
proposals relating to execution of works, grant ol 
leases, purchase ol material, remission ot charges, 
etc. 

P. C. MITTER, Secretary. 


IN THE MATTER OF 8TAR SUGAR LIMITED 

NOTICE OF MEETING OF CREDITORS 

(Pursuant to section 500 of the Companies Act) 

NOTICE is hereby given that a meeting ol the Creditors 
ol the Company will be held on Saturday, the 28th July 
1962, at 5/1 Ramkumar Hakhit Lamp Calcutta-7, at 
1L a. m. to consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
lesolutions with or without modifications: 

(1) That the Company he wound up voluntarily. 

(2) That Shri Anil Kr. Chattopadhyay. M.A., F.C.A 

be appointed the liquidator of the Company. 

(A) That a committee of Inspection be appointed. 

By order oi the Board, 
SANTOS H KR. SREEMANY, lined o. 
Dated the 14 th June 1962. 

(028-1) 


NOTICE 

I. M. CHOIJDHURY, hereby give notice that Mes.sis 
Juju A Co., a partnership firm in which I was a partm-i. 
practising as Chartered Aeeountants, having I lu* he;,ii 
office at A Fancy Lane, Calcutta-1, stands dissolved on u*nl 
from 5th June 1962. 

# (629- -1) 


R. J. ALCOCK AND COMPANY 

11 Government Place East, Calcutta-1 

NOTICE is hereby given that I he partnership hduceii 
Shri Delias Chandra Ghost* and Shri Blink la Kumai (Bin i 
ol the above, firm has thssolved due the death ol Mm 
l)elu*s Chandra (those on flic lot h February 1962. Tim mm 
has since been reconstituted with a new set of Pai fliers. 

(650 -1) 


TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN 

TAKE notice that pursuanl to the option given to us a< 
have elected not to be partners of Messrs. Ghose Estates 
ot No, 11, Government Place East, Calcutta. 


Tht- -ltl» >li« tu* 1962 


(625- 1 ) 


MANJCLI RAY. 
SliEULl GHOSE. 


(621 -1) 


Registered No. C20/ 


No. 26 of 1962 


Gklntfta 






240 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


Period. 


(I) 

1907 January 
Apiil 
July 
October 


1958 January 
April 
July 
October 


1909 January 
April 
July 

October 


1900 January 
April 
Ju ty 
October 



I 

* 

! i 


t November, 

, 19604 


All-India wholesale 
price index*. 


Bxpa 

ritaMIfaUI 





196963. 

Converted 

with 

November 
1960 m 

1—100 

101— W> 

* 


201—860 
* 


All 

luma. 

Food. ’ AH 

item*. 

Feed. 

A* 

Heme. 

Fond. 


bam. 

<*> 

<») 

(A 

m 

» 

<*> 

<*> 

(•) 

96*4 

04*6 

99*9 

91**9 

90-2 

90-3 

107-3 

99*4 

100*6 

•8-0 

•34 

•6*5 

97-0 

93*6 

106 -6 

98 -6 

106*0 

106*8 

164*1 

163-0 

108*7 

100*7 

111*9 

108 -6 

107*0 

107*0 

100*7 

104 0 

104-0 

102*3 

106-9 

100-8 

106*0 

101 *8 

103-1 

98-1 

101 -8 

95-4 

106-0 

m i 

106*0 

108*1 

104 -4 

100 -2 

103*2 

97 -9 

107*4 

99-6 

109-4 

101 •« 

H>7 *9 

1*04-9 

106-7 

102 -6 

114 -7 

104-2 

118*9 

114*8 

ill -2 

113-3 

109*3 

108-6 

116-2 

107-4 

104*6 

' 07-8 

102 -9 

96*6 

102 -7 

94*6 

112-3 

104 •( 

105 *8 

100*0 

106 *1 

99-4 

104-6 

98 -2 

111 -9 

108 -l 

110 *4 

108-S 

109 -2 

1001 

106-1 

104 -0 

110-8 

. 108 

114-6 

110-0 

113*0 

113 -4 

ill -6 

111-0 

119-3 

no-, 

110*4 

108*8 

108*6 

105-3 

107 -6 

103 -2 

118-8 

no < 

110 *6 

108-0 

108-9 

105*2 

107 -9 

103 -3 

180 -6 

111-4 

114 *4 

118-0 

112*8 

111-6 

111-6 

109-6 

124-7 

115-1 

114-4 

118-0 

116 *2 

HI -8 

112-2 

110 -4 

* 126 -8 

117 -C 


1901 January 
April 
Hay 
June 
July 
August 
September 
October 
November 
Deoember 


109 •T 
112*9 
112*1 
112*7 
110*2 
117*9 
118*0 
119*9 
120*3 
117*0 


100*0 

108*2 

107*8 

110*1 

114*1 

116*8 

116*4 

119*7 

120*4 

114*0 


106*7 

111*4 

111*4 

112*7 

110*1 

116*6 

116*6 

118*2 

118*4 

116*3 


108 *2 
107*2 
107*0 
109*1 
113*2 
116*7 
110*2 
119*2 
118 *4 
112*6 


106 -4 
111*0 
111*0 
112*1 
114*2 
116*6 
115*4 
116*9 
116*9 
114*1 


102 *8 
106*6 
106*6 
108*4 
112*2 
114-6 
113*8 
U0*7 
116*6 
111*1 


126-6 

126*8 

126*3 

126*9 

128*7 

127*4 

124*6 

124*4 

124-3 

122*9 


ill*: 

116-1 

116*1 

116* 

no*: 

118* 

115*< 

116* 

116 

113 * 


1962 January 
February 
March 
April 


114*4 

114*3 

115*6 

119*1 


110*1 

109*7 

112*0 

117*7 


112*8 

112*8 

114*1 

117*3 


108*0 

107*7 

110*1 

115*8 


112*1 

112*1 

113*3 

116*1 


107*0 

106*6 

108*9 

114*4 


123*3 

124*3 

123*6 


114* 

116- 

114* 


Week ending 
19*5-62 
26*5*62 
2-6-62 
9-0-62 
16 - 6*62 


119*4 

119*0 

119*9 

120*0 

120*8 


118*0 

117*5 

118*8 

119*0 

120*5 


117*5 

117*1 

117*8 

118*0 

118*8 


110*0 

115*4 

116*6 

116*9 

118*5 


116*2 

116*8 

116*5 

116*7 

117*4 


114*6 

118*8 

115*0 

116*4 

116*9 


‘lUiifrort series (Base i 1962*418) aql the rc nuspondhig converted eerie*, 


126 6 


117* 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE r.VUTTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


241 


Wholesale Market Prices of Agricultural and Animal Husbandry Products (average quality) In 

districts during the month of January 1962 

24-PARGANAS 


Commodity. 

Name of Markot. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Bast 

month’s 

Average of 

3 anuary , 
1991. 



6th 

13th 

20th 

27th 

average. 

average. 




Hr. nP. 

Hr. nl\ 

Hr. up. 

Its. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

Hr. nP. 

Ha. nP. 

C trials. 










d\ (fino) Patnai 

Metiahat 

Md. 

13-00 

13 -25 

13*00 

13-12 

13-09 

12 -40 

13*37 

dv (medium) Patnai 

Ditto 


12*00 

12 75 

12 -75 

12-76 

12-19 

12-00 

12 31 

dy (medium) Tangra 

Kakd'vip 

.. 

13 *00 

13-50 

13-50 

13-50 

13*37 

l :)•<)# 

12*17 

[dy (coarse) Sadamota 

Metiahat 

m 

11 76 

12-00 

12-00 

12 00 

n - in 

11 75 

12 00 

,,(liiu‘) Patnai .. 

Ditto 

• * 

21 -50 

21 75 

21 -50 

21*50 

21 56 

21-87 

22*00 

0 (medium ) Patnai 

Ditto 

*> 

20 *76 

21 00 

21 -00 

20-75 

20*87 

21 37 

21-12 

c (medium) Tangra 

Kakdwip 

.. 

21 *60 

1*2 -00 

21 25 

21*25 

21 -50 

21 67 

20-78 

P (coarse) Sadamota 

Metiahat 

ft 

19 25 

10-75 

19-75 

19 *50 

19 -56 

19 37 

20-12 

Pulses {whole). 










tl(wnall) 

Bongaon 

M(l. 

17-00 

18-50 

18-25 

17*50 

17*56 

16-65 

15.00 

Potato and vegetable m. 










% 

it/) (iJoniii Ked) 

Baairhat (V) 

Md. 

13-00 

10 00 

10- 00 

9 * 00 

10*60 

N S 

8-37 

* 

Deganga ( P; 

ft 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

8- 00 

8*00 

N.S. 

8*60 

ato (Doshi Nainitiii) 

Ditto 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

8*00 

800 

N.S 

7-50 

njal (round) 

Baruipur(P) 

* 

14-00 

17-00 

16-00 

13-00 

16-00 

15-10 

10*00 


Basil-hat (P) 


12 00 

8 00 

10 00 

8 00 

9 50 

12-40 

•5 00 


Bawii-hat (P) 

*» 

12-00 

S-00 

10*00 

8 *00 

9-60 

12*40 

5*00 


Ditto 

,, 

12*00 

0-00 

7*00 

8*00 

9 • 00 

12*30 

4-62 

“1 (long) 

Bar ui pur (P) 

„ 

13 00 

15*50 

14*00 

11 00 

13-37 

15 -10 

N.S. 

ish . , .. 1 

J)itto 

Pon. 

1-50 

3-00 

4 00 

N.S 

2*83 

1 30 

4*75 


Baairhat ( P) 

Mtt. 

3*00 

N.S 

NS. 

N S. 

3 • 00 

3*00 

2*00 


Deganga (T) 

Pon. 

1*00 

1 50 

N.S 

N S. 

1 -25 

1*45 

0-87 

i Plantain 

Baruipur (T) 

*» 

1*60 

l 50 

1-60 

1 -75 

l • 50 

t • 60 

1*63 

i 

Basirhat (P) 

,, 

o 

o 

T3 

2*00 

2 • 00 

2 00 

2*00 

1 76 

1*19 


Deganga (P) 

»> 

1*60 

l 50 

1 -00 

2 00 

1 50 

4-30 

1 66 

11 Papaya 

Baruipur (P) 

Md. 

8-60 

8-00 

7 50 

7 50 

7-87 

8*00 

I 

7*62 

i 

•to 

Ditto 

*» 

10 00 

S-00 

6 00 

4 • 50 

7*13 

N.S. 

9-37 


Deganga (P) 

i# 

4 00 

3 *00 

1*50 

3-00 

2-87 

13*40 

6*00 

' 

Baruipur (P) 

M 

22*00 

19*00 

16*00 

10*00 

16-76 

N.S. 

12*00 


Deganga ( P) 

M 

20 00 

16-00 

12-00 

8-00 

14-00 

20*00 

9*75 

msh 

Baruipur (P) 

1) 

6-00 

6*00 

5*50 

6-00 

6*63 

8- 20 

5* 12 


1 Deganga (P) 

1 ** 

2-00 

2-50 

2 -00 

4*00 

3*13 

5*60 

2*00 









242 


SIMM* LEM KNT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, • JUNE 28, 1962 


Wholesale prices 


24-PARGANAS — contd. 


January i 





Collection week** ended Saturday, 1 


Last 

Auti 





dated- 



H? 

Commodity. 


{ J nit. 



11 

t ' 

month ’b 

• 1 auu 



6th 

13th 

20th 

27th 


average. 

till 





[t». nP. 

Kb. nP. 

3,r. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rb. nF. 

Kk, 

Potato and vegetable a- conoid 










Cauliflower 

Baruipur (F) 

1(H) 

20-00 

20-00 

16*00 

15*00 

17*76 

15-33 

o 


Basirhat (F) 


12-00 

7*50 

9*00 

10 00 

9 • 75 

11-80 
Per Md. 

1 


Dcganga (1*) 

„ 

13 00 

12*00 

8*00 

8*00 

10-25 

19*40 

1 

Cabbage 

Baruipur (F) 


7-00 

7*00 

7*00 

5 ■ 76 

6*81 

9 • 00 
For Md. 

IVi 


Bann-hat (F) 

Md. 

10*00 

12*50 

12*60 

12 • 50 

13 13 

13-50 

l 

IV 


Dnganga (F) 

100 

5*00 

4-00 

• 

3 00 

5*00 

4*26 

7-50 
For Md. 

J 

Ph 

Fruit* if retth) 










Banana (Kant hall) . . 

Baruipur (P) 

Foil 

1*50 

2-25 

2*60 

2*00 

2*06 

1*60 


Banana (Champa) . . 

Ditto (F) 


1 *00 

1*75 

200 

1 50 

1*66 

1*20 


Cocoanut (groon) 

Amtala (1*) 

100 

34*00 

14 *00 

13 *00 

13 0() 

13*60 

14*60 

1 


Deganga (F) 

M 

9-00 

9 00 

8*00 

14-00 

10*00 

9 • 40 


Fruit ft (dry). 










Cocoanut (witli nboll) B< ngal . . 

Fuijali. (Budge Budge) 

100 

26*00 

37-50 

37 *00 

30*00 

32*63 

26*80 


Eggs. 










Hen egg (ungraded) 

Canning 

1,000 

130*00 

130*00 

126 -00 

130 *00 

, 130 -00 

136 -60 

1 34 - 40 

1 

Duok egg (ungraded) -- j 

Ditto 


130*00 

120-00 

120 *00 

125 *00 

123-76 

1 

ir 



% 


Poultry. 










Fowl (live weight of J ar.) 

Baairhat (P) 

Each 

3 00 

3-50 

3-50 

3 60 

3-60 

3-60 


Duck (live weight of 1 i .sr.) 

Ditto (F) 

•• 

3 *00 

3-00 

3 00 

3 00 

3-00 

3 *00 


Fich . 










Rohu 

Canning 

Md. 

110*00 

115 -00 

110*00 

110-00 

112*60 

115-00 


Katla .. 

Ditto 

M 

110 00 

11000 

100 00 

100 -00 

105*00 

114-00 


Chingri (Bagda) 

Ditto 

>* 

105*00 

105*00 

160*00 

120-00 

120 00 

107-60 


Vetki 

Ditto 

M 

115-00 

116-00 

116-00 

120-00 

116-25 

117-40 

] 

Mullet 

Ditto 

>» 

116-00 

115-00 

11500 

115*00 

115*25 

117*40 


Jiol (Magur) 

Ditto 

M 

140-00 

135 -00 

130 -00 

140-00 

136 *25 

140-00 


Jiol (Koi) 

Ditto 

H 

115 00 

110*00 

110*00 

110*00 

111 *25 

115-60 


Milch • Cattle . 








1()0 -80 


Cow (rrilk yield of 1 or. a day) 

Baekchara (F) 

Each 

97 -00 

96 *00 

96*00 

95*00 

96*00 


Cattle Fodder, 








7-25 


Paddy straw (Now) 

Chandpur (P) 

Kahan 
of 0 mde 

7 -00 

14*00 

10*26 

12*00 

10*81 


(New) 

Bongaon (P) 

K ahan 
of 8 md* 

24-00 

i. 

23 *00 

23-0C 

> 22*00 

23*00 

i 26-00 


(Old) 

Ditto 

t 

•• 

40*00 

33*00 

33*0(1 

> 30*00 

34*00 

, 32-60 

— 










SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, IUNE 28, 1962 


243 


Wholesale prices 


24-PARGANA8 — concld. 


January 1962 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

l^ast 

month's 

average. 

Average of 
.1 auuary , 
1961. 

Gth 

13th 

20 th 

27th 




Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Hr. nV. 

Rs. nP. 

Fibres . 










j u te (garsat) 

Bongaon 

Md. 

30 *75 

29 *50 

21 * r.o 

31 -50 

30 31 

29 15 

67*12 


Deganga 

M 

30 no 

32 00 

29 50 

31*50 

30*75 

31 SO 

55 00 


Baduria 

• 9 

34 00 

32 *60 

31*75 

32 00 

32-57 

34 • 00 

63-76 

Meets 

Bongaon 

Pf 

23*50 

23-50 

22 -76 

23-12 

23 22 

25*20 

52*70 


Deganga 

$P 

22 50 

24-50 

2100 

22*50 

22 03 

20 40 

40-76 


Baduria 

M 

20*00 

24-50 

24 GO 

24 *50 

24-87 

25*90 

49 60 

7*f iscdlaneotJS . 










Gur (cane) 

Baduria (P) 

Md. 

18-00 

1U-50 

19 -50 

19 GO 

19 12 

19 80 

17 00 

flattened Rice (Chira) 

Am tala 

»» 

30-00 

29-00 

29*00 

28 00 

29 *00 

32 00 

31*60 

Parched Rice (Murj) 

Ditto 

»» 

34 -00 

32 -00 

33 -00 

29 -00 

32 *00 

38 00 

32 26 


N.8.=No supply. 

The unit “ Md. ** means the standard maund of 82 *2/7 lbs, 
Tho unit “Quintal** means 2*68 mds. 












244 


SUPPLEMENT TO T1IK CALCVTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


Wholesale prices 


HOWRAH 


January 19 



Cereal*, 

Paddy (fine) Rupsal 
Paddy (medium) Balam 
Paddy (coarse) Mota 
Rice (fino) Rupsal 
Rice (fine) BhnHhmnanik 
Rice (line) Rupsal 
Rice (medium) Kalina 
Rice (medium) Nagra 
Rico (medium) Balam 
Rico (coarse) Bengal Mota 
Rice (coarse) Orissa Superb 
Rice (coarse) Mota 

Pulses {Whole), 
Mung (ordinary) . . 

Masur (big) 

Masur (small) 

Masur (khari, big! 

Masur (khari, small) 

Urid (big) 

Urid (small) 

Gram (big) 

Gram (small) 

Mator (big) 

Mator (small) 

Arhar (big) 

Arhar (small) 

Khesari (big) • - 
Khesari (small) . . 

Pulses {split), 
Mung (ordinary) . . 

Masur (big) 

Masur (small) 

Urid (big) 

Urid (small) 

Gram (big) 

Oram (small) 

Mator (big) 


Name ol Market. 


Bakshihat 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Ramkrishnapur 
Ditto 
Bakshihat 
Ramkrishnapu r 
Ditt o 
Bakshihat 
Ramkriuhnapiir 
Ditto 
Bakshihat 


Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 


tith 13 th 20th 27 th 

Its. nl\ Its. nP. Rs. nP. Rs. nr. 

Md. 12*50 12*50 12*50 12*50 

11-50 11*50 11*50 11*50 

10*50 10*50 10*50 10*50 

Quintal 03*05 03- §5 03*05 63 05 

01*20 01*20 01*20 01*20 

Md. 23*00 23*00 23*00 23*00 

Quintal 60*30 00*30 00*30 60*30 

5S *00 58-90 58*90 58-90 

Md. 20*00 20*00 20*00 20*00 

Quintal 63*00 53*00 53*00 53*00 

52 20 52*20 52*20 52-20 

N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. 


llowrah Pulse Markot Quintal I 16*89 


Last A viiugi 
Monthly month's Januar 
average. average. I Ml 


13*33 Md. U 
12*50 „ j 2 » 

12*00 „ ][., 
05*00 -) 


Howrah Pulse Market Quintal 02*90 I 62 *29 I 62*29 I 08 *32 


48*64 43*54 


Rs. nr. 

Rs. nP. 

12*50 

12*50 

11*50 

11*50 

10*50 

10*50 

63 • 65 

03-05 

61*29 

01 -29 

23*00 

23 00 

60*30 

00*30 

58*96 

58-90 

20*00 

20*00 

53*00 

53*00 

52-20 

52*20 

N.S. 

N.S. 

51 68 

48 74 

50 26 

53 91 

42 *87 

12 03 

64 26 

<y> *30 

50 *37 

57 *96 

56 *25 

i>4 *25 

42 *37 

41 80 

48 • 89 

47*04 

41 50 

40 *35 

40*89 

42 *34 

41 *25 

39 45 

50*91 

48 *90 

40 *22 

45 71 

38*85 

30 *50 

32*15 

29 *97 

08 32 

63 *96 

00*98 

60*31 

58- 94 

57*28 

09 • 0G 

71*43 

60 -98 

67 *65 

48*90 

53 *65 

42*87 

51*54 

45*55 

45*46 


60*37 J iv 
Md 


66 08 

54*00 J iv 




STTPPl/KMKNT TO TTTK CA ECETTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1%2 


245 


oltl&H pricw HOWRAH — contd. Jsnuvy 196S 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month’s 

average. 

Average o] 




flth 

13 th 

20 th 

27th 

1U«1. 




Rs. nP. 

Rs. up. 

Rs. np. 

Rh. nP 

Rh. nl\ 

Rs. up. 

Rs. nP. 

p u lse# (split) — conoid. 

pr (small) 

Howrah Pulse Market 

Quintal 

42-87 

•12-87 

43-54 

43-51 

43-25 

41 -44 

45-04 

» (big) 

Ditto 

M 

04 70 

05 • 04 

05 • 04 

05-04 

05-43 

03-23 

69-01 

I (fcmall) 

Ditto 

M 

52 25 

50 01 

50-19 

50 19 

50 8S 

57 -45 

47 -39 

*ri (big) 

Ditto 

• » 

•12 -87 

13 51 

44-21 

44-21 

43 77 

42 -20 

40*35 

lari (small) . * . . 

Ditto 

M 

40-80 

41 53 

4 1 53 

40-19 

41 03 

40-50 

34-83 

Vegetables . 











Kali Balm's Bazar . . 

Quintal 

40-00 

35-00 

35 00 

35 00 

30-25 


M(i. 6 25 

it Purnkin . . 

Ditto 


70 00 

70 -00 

70 -00 

05 00 

08 -7 5 

7! -00 

05*00 

ip • • t 

Ditto 

Quintal 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

55-00 

nA 

lift • • 

Ditto 

H 

N.H. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

55-00 

N.S. 

Ittour 

Ditto 


15-00 

12-00 

12*00 

13-00 

13 00 

10-80 

14 -25 

iago 

Ditto 

Quintal 

ao-uo 

18-00 

18-00 

17-00 

20-75 

30-00 

Md. 5-37 

Fruit a (Dry). 

bnnt (dry) . . 

Kankrail Station Market 

• 

100 

30-00 

30-00 

30-00 

30 00 

30-00 

30 00 

21*75 

Fruit s (Fresh). 

unit (Green) 

Domjur (I*) 

100 

18-00 

18-00 

18-00 

18-00 

■ 

IS ()() 

i 

J8-00 

9*50 

Fish. . 










b 

Howrah Bridge Market 

Quinta] 

300-00 

310-00 

310*00 

310*00 

307-50 

315*00 

Md. 105*00 

H 

Ditto 


300-00 

310-00 

310-00 

310-00 

307-50 

31 7 * 00 

„ 110*00 

P 1 

Ditto 


275-00 

250-00 

250-00 

250-00 

250-25 

290 00 

„ 95-00 

\ 

Ditto 

9t 

300-00 

325-00 

325-00 

325 -00 

318 75 

321*00 

„ 105*00 

pi (Hagda) . . 

1 

Ditto 

ft 

275 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

275-00 

298-00 

180-00 

l 

Ditto 

•• 

300-00 

250*00 

250-00 

250-00 

202-50 

300 00 

„ 100-00 

Htlk and Milk Products. 

IC°w) 

Bandhaghat Khatal . . 

Md. 

32-00 

32-00 

32-00 

32-00 

32 00 

32-00 

32*00 

(Buffalo) 

Ditto 

•• 

40-00 

40-00 

40-00 

40-00 

40-00 

40 00 

40-00 

Milch VatUe, 










[Mdk yield of 1 seer per 

1 

Uluberia 

Each 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S, 

N.S. 

\ 

Pottle Fodder. 

(Btrnw) 

Sibpur Bichali Ghat • • 

Kahan j 
of 10 
mds. ' 

40-00 

35-00 

35-00 

35-00 

i 

30-25 

40-00 

49*50 
















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


Wholesale prices 


HOWRAH — concld. 


January ij 



Name of Market.. 


Collection weeks ended Saturday, 

dated — , Avo ^l 

1T „ ;+ Monthly months .Janui 

“ ' ■ ’ % average. average. 196. 

6 th 13 th 20th 27th 


Oil Seeds. 
Mustard (Yellow) 

Mustard (Kazli) . 

Mustard (Pai) 

Groundnut. (Undeoortieated) 
Grouridnu i ( Decorticated ) 
linseed 


Til (White) 


Howrah Pulse Market Quintal 107*17 109-21 109*86 109-00 










SUPPLEMENT To THE PALPI' IT \ GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1%2 


247. 


fhotosale prices HOOGHLY January 1962 


Commodity. 


Name of Market . 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 

month's 

III 





Oth 

13ih 

20th 


m 

average. 

Cereals. 




Us. nr. 

fts. nP. 

Un. up. 

Us. nP. 

Us. i»l\ 

Km. up. 

IN. nP. 

,ildv (Fine) Dudkalam 

(Old) 

Chumpadanga 

Md. 

i 3 oo 

13*00 

13 *00 

13*00 

13*00 

13 30 

12-75 


(New) 

Di tto 

M 

1100 

11*00 

11-00 

11*00 

11*00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

,ddy (Fine) Sitaeal 


Hah Dowanganj 


12 • 20 

12*20 

12*12 

13*12 

12*44 

N.S. 

N.S. 



K all] tore 


12 00 

12*00 

12*00 

i 3 • 00 

12-26 

N.S. 

13 41 

jjy ( Medium) Nagrasal (Old) 

ChampadangH 

.. 

12*00 

12*00 

12*00 

12*00 

12 37 

12*80 

11*94 


(New) 

Ditto 

M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

10 70 

11-00 

10 • 87 

N.S. 

N.S. 

ddy (Medium) Jhingonal 

Bali Dtiwimganj 

i % 

11-02 

11- IB 

1 1 00 

1 1 • 02 

11*47 

12*82 

11*84 



Kaliporo 

i » 

1 1 • 00 

11 -00 

10- 70 

1 1 00 

11 31 

12 70 

11*69 

dd\ (Medium) Dudkalam 

Bab Dowanganj 

9 * 

11 *02 

11 *02 

11*00 

11 02 

11*47 

12 82 

12*06 

, 


Kaliporo 

99 

11 50 

11*50 

10 75 

11 00 

11 31 

12 70 

11*66 

lidy (Coarse) Gardhan 

(Old) 

Clmrnpndanga 


12-00 

12-00 

12*00 

12-00 

12*00 

12*42 

11*75 


(New) 

Di! to 


N.S. 

N.S. 

10*62 

10*70 

10*69 

N.S. 

N.S. 

ildy (Coarse) Garb 


Bali Dowanganj 


11-00 

11 *00 

10*20 

10*62 

10-72 

J a :ic 

11*56 



Kali pore 


10 70 

10 *70 

9 • 70 

10 00 

10-44 

11-20 

11*62 

'tj(Kiuo) Dudkalam 

(Old) 

Chainpudanga 


22*00 

22*00 

22*00 

23*00 

22 62 

23-90 

23-00 


(Nou) 

1 

Ditto 

99 

20*00 

20*00 

20*00 

21-60 

20-37 

N.S. 

N.S. 

e (Fine) Sitaeal 


Bali Dowurn/anj 


22*20 

22*20 

20*70 

22*00 

21*94 

N.S. 

N.S. 



Kal.pore 


22*00 

22*00 

20*00 

22 ■ 00 

21-75 

23 50 

19-25 

+ \ Medium) Nagraaal 

(Old) 

( 'Iinjnpadanp.i 

99 

22*00 

22-00 

22- 00 

22 00 

22*00 

22*90 

22-00 


(Now) 

I )itlo 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

19 * 00 

20*00 

19*50 

N.S. 

N.S. 

a (Medium) Jhingasal 


Bali Dowanganj 

•a 

21*20 

21-20 

18-70 

20*75 

20*50 

21*94 

18-50 



Kaliporo 

99 

21 00 

21 00 

18- 00 

20 50 

20*25 

21*81 

18- 28 

e (Medium) Dudkalam 

-• 

Bali Dcwangunj 

99 

21 20 

21-20 

18*75 

20 75 

20*00 

22*00 

18*75 



Kaliporo 

99 

21*00 

21-00 

18 00 

20 50 

20*25 

21*85 

18- 37 

o (Coaine) Garshal 

(Old) 

Champadangu 

» 

20*00 

20-00 

20*00 

20*50 

20*12 

21-90 

2 D 00 


(Now) 

Ditto 

#» 

N.S. 

18*00 

18*00 

19-00 

18*67 

N.S. 

N.S. 

6 (Coarse) Garb 


Bali Dowanganj . . 

>» 

19 • 00 

19*70 

18*00 

19*75 

19 37 

20-95 

17*88 



Kaliporo 

F» 

19 *00 

19*00 

1800 

19*50 

19 • 0 (j 

20*75 

17-56 

Pubes (Whole). 











*(%) 


Sheoraphuli 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

% N.S. 

19. 00 

(SihhU) 

•• 

Ditto 

M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S 

17- 12 

kllr (Khari, Big) 

-- 

Ditto 

M 

20*00 

20*00 

26*50 

26*50 

26*00 

25*40 

23-50 

* (Khari, Small) 

•• 

Ditto 

»» 

24*00 

23*00 

24*00 

24*00 

23 75 

23 40 

22. 12 

(Kl»ari ( Big) 

•• 

Mallick Kasom Jlat 

M 

20-00 

26-00 

20*00 

26*00 

25*70 

23*15 

23-37 

***“ (Khari, Small) 

•• 

Ditto 

»» 

22 00 

22*00 

22*00 

23 00 

22*25 

21-75 

21-00 

h ,B «) 

•• 

Sheoraphuli 

»» 

18*00 

18*00 

23*00 

23-00 

20*50 

18-00 

18-00 

1 'Small) 


Ditto 

M 

16*00 

16-00 

21-00 

21 00 

18*50 

16*00 

17-00 









248 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


=T 


Wholesale prices HOOGHLY — contd. January 19(2 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month’s 

I A verage of 

1 ilfthnuM. 




6th 

13th 

20 th 

27th 

average. 

1891. 

y, 






Re. 11 P. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

f| 

PuUe* (Split) 


' 











Maaur (Big) 

•• 

Sheoraphuli 


Md. 

25-00 

23-50 

24-00 

24-00 

24*12 

23-75 

22-) 

0 

Masur (Small) 

•• 

Ditto 

•• 

99 

23-00 

21-50 

23-00 

23-00 

22*62 

22-50 

19*1 

> 

Urid (Big) 


Ditto 

•• 

99 

30-00 

28-00 

27-00 

27-00 

28-00 

30-00 

21-12 

Urid (Small) 


Ditto 


» 

28-00 

27-00 

26-00 

26-00 

26-76 

28-00 


5 

Gram (Big) 


Ditto 


M 

20-00 

20-00 

23-00 

23-00 

21-60 

20-00 

20-00 

Gram (Small) « . 

•• 

Ditto 

•• 

99 

19-00 

18-00 

21 -00 

21 -00 

19-75 

1900 

18-06 

Qram (Big) 

•• 

Mallirk Kasevn Hat 

h 

22-00 

22 -00 

22 00 

22-00 

22-00 

22*15 

22-75 

Gram (Small) 


Ditto 


ft 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Urid (Big) 


Ditto 

•• 

tt 

28-00 

28 00 

28-00 

28* 00 

28*00 

28*16 

• 

24 OO 

Urid (Small) 

•• 

Ditto 


»* 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Arliar (Big) 


Sheoraphuli 


99 

25 -00 

23-00 

28-00 

26-00 

26-00 

25 00 

24-00 

Arhar (Small) 

•• 

Ditto 


>9 

23-00 

22-00 

25 00 

25 00 

23-75 

22*80 

22-00 

Kheoari (Big) 

•• 

Ditto 


99 

1800 

17-00 

20-00 

20-00 

18-75 

18-00 

it* OH 

Khenari (Small) 

•• 

Ditto 

*• 

It 

16-00 

16-00 

19*00 

19-00 

17 50 

16-00 

15*00 

Kheoari (Big) 

•• 

Mallick Kasom Hat 

99 

17-00 

18-00 

18-00 

18-00 

17-75 

« 

17-45 

17 IX 


Kheaari (Small) — 

• • 

Ditto 


• 9 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Spire*. 




I 









Onion (Bombay) 

•* 

Sheoraphuli 

•• 

Md. 

11-00 

1100 

12-00 

10 *00 

11-00 

13 62 

13-50 


Onion (Patnai) 


Ditto 

•* 

99 

uoo 

11 00 

12 -00 

9*00 

10*75 

13*87 

12-12 


Onion (Deshi) 

• • 

Ditto 


99 

N.S. 

10-00 

: 

11-00 

N.S. 

10-60 

1 

1 

N.S. 

11 75 


Potato and Vegetable*. 









: 




Potato (Nainital) . . 

•• 

Sheoraphuli 


Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

22-87 

7-02 

1 - 



Champadanga 


„ 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

22*62 

7-12 


Potato (Rangoon) . . 

*• 

Sheoraphuli 


99 

10-75 

9-75 

8*00 

8-00 

9*12 

27*00 

7*02 


« 


Champadanga 


99 

10-50 

9-50 

7-00 

7*00 

8*62 

26*62 

7*1 


Sweet Potato 

*• 

Sheoraphuli 



9-00 

N.S. 

8*00 

7*00 

8-00 

10*00 

6*75 




Champadanga 


' 1 

8-00 

N.S. 

7*75 

6*76 

7*50 

9*00 

4*88 


Brinjal (Round) 

•• 

Sheoraphuli 


. I 

14 -00 

12*00 

15*00 

12-00 

13-25 

14*50 

3-63 


Brinjal (Kuli) 

•• 

Ditto 



13-00 

11-00 

14*00 

1100 

12*25 

15*20 

2-88 ' 


Bittergourd (KareVa) 

•• 

Ditto 


lg|B 

N.S. 

26*00 

28*00 

18*00 

23*06 

N.S. 

N-S- 


do (Uchchhe) 

•• 

Ditto 


| 

15-00 

20*00 

22*50 

18*00 

18*87 

19*60 

N.S. 


Sweet Pumpkin 

•• 

Ditto 


100 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

«i?4 













SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. JUNE 28, 1962 


249 


fholesale prices HOOGHLY — contd. January 1962 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month's 

average. 

Average of 
January, 
1961. 

0th 

13 th 

20th 

27th 




it s. nP« 

Its. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Kh. nP. 

Its. nP. 

Kh. nP. 

Fruits . 










vnrtOH (Champa) • . 

Shoorapliuli 

1) Pen. 

1-60 

1-50 

1 75 

1 75 

1-02 

1 • 75 

2-25 

uuinu (Kathali) • . 

Ditto 


200 

2 00 

225 

2-00 

2-00 

2 10 

2-75 

Milk and Milk Products, 










ilk (Cow) 

Serampore 

Md. 

40 00 

40-00 

40-00 

40 00 

40-00 

40 00 

35 -00 

[lk (Buffalo ) *> • • • 

Ditto 


45 00 

45 -00 

45 00 

45 00 

45 00 

45 00 

40-00 


Chinaurali 

9 9 

30 00 

36-00 

38 00 

36 00 

36 00 

36 00 

36 00 

ihAtm (Skimmed) 

Serampore 

09 

51 -00 

51 -00 

40-00 

42 00 

40 -00 

54 80 

50 20 

Eggs. 










jn Egg (ungraded) , 

Pandua ITat 

100 

17 00 

15 -00 

15 -00 

15-00 

15 50 

10 00 

11 -60 

uok Egg (ungraded) 

Ditto 

99 

17 00 

14 00 

14 -00 

14 00 

14 75 

10-70 

12-60 

Poultry. 










>wl (live weight 1 sr.) 

Pandua ITat 

Each 

4-25 

3 75 

4-00 

4 60 

4 12 

4 00 

3 37 

ad (live weight 2 era.) 

Ditto 


4 00 

3 50 

3 75 

4 00 

3 81 

4 • 25 

4-50 

• 

Milch Cattle. 








i 


>w (rniik yield $ sr. a day) 

Mayapore 

Each 

64 00 

54-00 

65-00 

65 -00 

© 

© 

rr 

O 

63 -80 | 

46-00 

)w (milk yield 1 sr. a day) 

Ditto 


05 00 

95 00 

90 00 

98 -00 

90 90 

90 80 

87 -60 

>w (milk yield 1 $ era. a day) . . 

Ditto 

$0 

140 00 

145-00 

145-00 

146 -00 

143 75 

141 00 

120 -00 

1* (milk yield £sr. a day) 

Pandua Hat 


120* 00 

110-00 

100-00 

100 00 

107-60 

111 00 

75 -00 

Sheep and Coat. 


i 








i»«t (live weight 7 are.) 

i 

Pandua Hat 

Each 

25 00 

24 00 

26 00 

25 -00 

24-75 

24 40 

20 -00 

(live weight 10 «rs.) 

Mayapore 

00 

25 00 

28-00 

28-00 

30-00 

27 76 

20 -so 

22-00 

Oil. 






i 



■ 

Haul 

Sheoraphuli 

Md. 

00 •()() 

90 00 

107 00 

100 00 

101 26 

98-40 

JOI 75 

Oil cakes. 






! 




*ard 

Sheoraphuh 

Md. 

14 00 

1 

13 75 

14 00 

14 00 

13-94 

14 00 

13 00 

cr 

Ditto 

i 

12 50 

12-00 

12 60 

12-50 

12-37 

12-75 

11 12 

^dnut 

Ditto 

1 

14 60 

14 00 

14 25 

14 25 

14 25 

14 75 

13 -00 

tard 

Mallick Kasom Hat 

■ 

11-25 

12 00 

11 00 

11-76 

11 50 

J2 90 

12-19 

**d 

Ditto 

1 

15-50 

16 60 

10 26 

16-25 

10-12 

10-45 

14-19 

Uftdnut 

Ditto 

■ 

12-00 

12-50 

13-00 

13-00 

12-02 

14 -37 

12-26 











SUPPLEMENT TO TflK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, fUNE 28, 1962 


an o 


Wholesale prices HOOGHLY — concld. January ity 






Collection weeks ended Saturday. 


Last 







dated — 


Monthly 

Avoragp 

Commodity. 


Name of Market. 

Unit. 





average. 

month's 

-lenum-v 



0th 

13th 

20th 

27th 


average. 

' 1961/ 







Rb. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

R«. nl 

Cattle Fodder. 











Paddy etraw 

(Old) 

Malliek Kasem Hat 

Kahan 
of 10 

34 00 

32-00 

32-00 

32-00 

32 50 

30-40 

48-fl 




mds. 









(Now) 

Ditto 

„ 

24 00 

22-00 

22 00 

22-00 

22-50 

N.8. 

3r» i> 

Fibers. 











Jute 

. • 

Hheoraphuli 

Md. 

34 00 

34 00 

34 00 

34 00 

34 00 

35 20 

58 



Champadanga 

M 

30 00 

30 00 

30 00 

33 00 

30 75 

32-40 

A 7 

MeBtu m • 

. • 

Shooraphuli 

»» 

29-00 

29 00 

29-00 

29-00 

29-00 

29 -37 

r»4 c 



Cham pad unga 

»» 

25-00 

26-00 

25-00 

28-00 

25-75 

28-12 

Al 5 

Sunnhomp 

• • 

Shooraphuli 

»» 

N.S. 

40 -00 

40-00 

38-00 

39 33 

39 00 

• 


Miscellaneous. 









• 


Qur (cane) 

•• 

Shooraphuli 

Md. 

21-00 

21 00 

22 00 

22-00 

21 50 

21 -40 

is II 













NFPIM.EMENT TO THE CAECl TTA ( AZETTF., JUHE 2R, 1%2 


251 


ow* f*“ NADIA January 1U! 





Collection weeks ended Saturday, 

1 



Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 


dated — 


Monthly 

average. 

Last 
niont h’tt 
av erage. 

A\ erage of 




6th 

13th 

20th 


*1 an nary 
1961. 




Uh. nP. 

Big 

Kb. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Km. nl . 

Km. nl*. 

R«. n P. 

Cereals, 










|y (fine) Aman 

Plosaey (P) 

Md. 

N.S. 

| 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

n.s: 

lj (medium) „ 

Ditto 


12-00 

12-00 

11-50 

11-60 

11-75 

12-30 

12-26 

\ (roarae) f • 

Ditto 

M 

11-75 

11-75 

11-25 

11-26 

11-60 

11-05 

11-02 

(lino) Jhingasal 

Krishnugur 

»» 

24-00 

22 00 

22 00 

22-00 

22-50 

24 30 

22- 


Ranaghat 

** 

24-50 

22 -60 

22-50 

23 00 

23-12 

IKK 

23-00 

(medium) Dudkakna 

Krinlinagiir 

*9 

22-00 

20-00 

20 00 

20 00 

20 50 

22-20 

20 62 


Ranaghat. 

•» 

N.S. 

21-00 

20 25 

21-75 

21 00 

22 -75 

21 -31 

(coarse) Jftli 

Kriuhnagar 

M 

10 00 

18-00 

ls-00 

ls-00 

18 25 

18 90 

19 95 


Hanaghat 

a 

N.S. 

1900 

19-50 

20-00 

19-00 

20 25 

18 94 

Pulses (whole). 










i (small) 

Plasaoy (P) 

Md. 

14 00 

14-00 

14 00 

14-00 


14 30 

14 76 


Ranaghat 

M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

I N.S. 

13 75 

14 33 

•1 * • . • 

Plosaey (P) 

99 

15 00 

15 00 

19 00 

19-00 


mm 

16 Kl 


Ranaghat 

a 

19-00 

20-00 

N.S. 

19 25 

19-41 

17-46 

16-60 

1 »* • • • . 

• 

riassoy (P) 

99 

14 00 

1400 

14 00 

14 00 

14-00 

1400 

10*50 


Ranaghat 

99 

15-00 

14-50 

14 50 

10 00 

15 00 

14-35 

10*80 

l» . 

PlftHHOy (P) 

99 

12 00 

12 00 

12 00 

12-00 

12-00 

12-00 

12- 12 


Santipur 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

‘ 

Plansey (P) 

99 

15- 50 

15-50 

15 60 

15 00 

15-37 

16-60 

14-06 


Ranaghat . . 

99 

N.S. ! 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

^ A. 

Plaaaey (P) 

99 

N.S. 

9-50 

0 00 

9-00 

9-10 

10-20 

9- 02 


Ranaghat 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Vegetables. 










P^Pnya (Local) 

Chakdah (P) 

Md. 

4-60 

4-50 

4*60 

4-50 

4-60 

0-44 

412 

Oilseed*. 










sd 

If H 

Plasaoy (P) 

Md. 

27-00 

27 00 

27-00 

27-00 

27-00 

% 

28 00 

24*?5 

Ditto 


32-00 

32-00 

84-00 

34-00 

33-00 

32-80 

28-60 


Hanaghat 

99 

34 00 

31 00 

28-00 

29-00 

30 25 

33 20 

31-12 

Fibre, 










W*at) 

PlaBBcy 

Md. 

30-00 

28-00 

28-00 

28-00 

28-50 

29-70 

63 -37 


Chakdah 

91 

29-50 

28-00 

29-00 

29-50 

29-00 

28-70 

54-37 


Ranaghat 

*• 

•• 

29 00 

27-00 

29-00 

28-00 

28-25 

28-50 

53-12 


















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA CAZET! E, JUNE 28, 1962 


21)2 


Wholesale prices MUR8HIDABAD January 13 


fommodity. 

Miimo nf Mftrlrfti. 

Unit. 

Colleotion weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Lost 

month’s 

A vei’up 
4 aiiua 



6th 

13 th 

20th 

27th 

average. 

average. 

1361 





Ra. nP. 

Its. nP. 

lift. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

IIh. & 

(lerraUi. 











Paddy (fine) (Aman) .. 

Lalbagh 


Md. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Xa 


Jiaganj 



N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S 


Dhulian 



N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

.V 

Paddy (modimn) » 

Lalbagh 



12-60 

12-60 

12-60 

13-00 

12-02 

13-10 

12 


Jiaganj 


It 

12-60 

12-60 

13-00 

13 00 

12*75 

13-00 

ll! 


Dlmlian 


1 » 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S 

Paddy (course) m •• 

Lalbagh 


• l 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 



J iaganj 


• I 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S 


Dhulian 


» » 

N.S, 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S 

Rioo (fine) (Bhasamanik) .. 

Berhamporo 


99 

23-00 

22*60 

22 -60 

22 -60 

22 02 

• 23*06 

-U 


Lulhugh 


oe 

23-00 

23*00 

24-00 

24-00 

23 -50 

•24 -00 

2D 


Kandi 


,, 

24-00 

20 -60 

20 60 

21 50 

21 -02 

23 00 

211 1 

Rice (modimn) (Ranikalma) .. 

Ib'rhainporo 


.. 

22-00 

21*60 

21 50 

21 50 

21 02 

22 -05 

2u ! 


Lalbagh 


.. 

22-00 

22-00 

22 50 

22 50 

22*26 

23 00 



Kandi 


„ 

22-00 

19-60 

19 50 

20 00 

20-25 

21 90 

i'»; 

Rioo (coarao) (Norm) 

llorlwiinporo 



19 00 

19-00 

19 00 

19-50 

. ID- 12 

19-50 

19 ; 


Lulhugh 



20 00 

20 00 

19 59 

20-00 

19 -87 

19 90 

r* 


Kandi 


s » 

21 00 

19 00 

19 00 

10-00 

19 • 50 

20*30 ^ 

h 

Wheat (Tuit.y) 

Jiaganj 


M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

\'j 

Wheat (Gangajali) 

Dhulian 


II 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

1 

N.S. 1 

N.S. 

x; 

Barley (Doahi) 

Jiaganj 


•• 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

V; 

Puls*** ( wholr ). 

Dhulian 



r N.S. 

N.S. 

12-00 

N.S. 

12-00 

N.S. 

X.i 

Manur (Small) 

Boldunga 


Md. 

13-00 

13-00 

13-00 

13-00 

13-00 | 

13-60 

N.i 


Jiaganj 


.. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

X.i 


Dhulian 



N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. ' 

N.S. 

X-! 

Urid (Small) . . 

Boldanpa 


II 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S 


Jiaganj 


II 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Si 


Dhulian 



N.S. 

N.S. 

18-GO 

19-00 

18*75 

N.S. 

10' 

Gram (Small) 

Beldanga 



N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14-50 

3 


Jiaganj 


M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

> 1 


Dhulian 


tl 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14-25 

N.S. 

14*25 

N.S. 

1 

Kator (Small) 

Beldanga 


M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12-60 

X. 


Jiaganj 


II 

N.S. 

N.S 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

ml 


Dhulian 


II 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Ur*- 

NS. 

NS. 

■ 











.’53 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE ('ALCUTTA GAZETTE. JUNE 28, 


fbotosato prices 


Commodity. 


MUR8HIDABAD — contd. 


Name of Market. I Unit. 


Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 


6th 13th 20th 27th 


Monthly 

average. 


January 1962 


Lunt Average of 
monUi’u January 
a\ erage. |«VG1. 


Pulses {whole) — ooncld. 
bar (Small) . • 


lieldmiga 
J lagan j 
L> Indian 


Ks. nP. Hs. nP. Rs. nP. Re. nP. R». nl*. Kh. nt\ K». n p. 


iwftri (Small) 


Beldanga 

Jiaganj 

Dhulian 


iimi (Deehi) (Small) 
rmeric (Deahi) 


- . I Lalgola 


Md. 14-00 8-00 8-00 8 00 

N.S. N.S. 43-60 43-60 


Potato and Vegetable*, 
two (Deshi-red) 
ulillower (Local) . . 
blitzes (Local) 


Beldangn (P) 


9-75 10-00 9*26 9 • 60 9-02 
20-00 16*00 16-00 16-00 16-60 
16-00 18-00 18-00 19 • IK) 17-26 


0'W (Ungraded) 


Lalgola (P) 


1,000 143-70 134-40 134-40 134-60 130 70 


Poultry, 
0 (live wt. 14 eh.) 


Lalgola (P) 


Each 2*60 2-50 2-60 2*60 2 


Sheep and Ooat. 
dive wt. 16 srs.) 
■’•ve wt. 12 srs.) 


Beldanga 


Each 82-00 82-00 82-00 32-00 32*00 30*00 30-00 

„ 26-00 26-00 26-00 26*00 26*00 26 00 24*76 


Milch Cattle, 

Urnilk yielding 2 btb. a day) Beldanga 


Each 170-00 170-00 170-00 170 00 170 00 170*00 I 172-60 


Oilseeds. 


*** . . . . Jiaganj 

^ (bold other than yellow) Ditto 


Phnlian 


Md. N.S. N.8. N.S. N.S. N.8. n.8. n.8. 

»• N.S. N.8. N.8. N.8. N.8. N.S. 30-00 

N.a N.8. N.8. N.8. N.S. N.S. 30-75 


-’•V4 SUl’LMiKMKMT TO TIIK (CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


Wholesale prices MUR8HIDABAD — concld. January i 


Commodity. 

Name of Markot. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Loat 

month*# 

Avr*ra 

•lanij 

196 




6th 

13 th 

20th 

27th 

average. 

averago. 




Rb. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Its. nP. 

11k 

Hi dr and nktn 










CoW (wet, (suited) 

Lulgnlu 

Piece 

10- 00 

10-00 

16-00 

16-00 

16-00 

J6 00 

i; 

(roat 

l>itto 

•* 

3.00 

3-00 

3-00 

3 00 

3-00 

3-00 

i 

0 

Fibre. 










Jut© (gursat) 

CoHHimhii/.ur 

Md. 

30- 00 

30 00 

30-00 

30-00 

30- 00 

20-20 

* 


.J laganj 


26-00 

28-00 

28-00 

26-00 

26-75 

26-80 

■*1 


L algo la 

- 

25-00 

26-00 

27-00 

26 00 

26-00 

25-60 

‘"i 

MineeUanrouti. 




! 






Our (cone) 

Kundi 

Md. 

17-60 

18-60 

18-60 

18-60 

18-26 

16 - SI 

r 












SI 1 IT I /KM ENT TO THE (’AUTTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


255 


i 

holasale prices BURDWAN January 1962 


Commodity. 

Niuno of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

hast 

month’s 

Average of 
J anuary f 
1961. 




6th 

13th 

20th 

27tii 

average. 

average. 





Rh. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Re. iiP. 

Rh. hi*. 

Km. nP. 

Rh. nP. 

Cereals. 











t jdy (medium) Kalina 

Burdwun (P) 


Md. 

12 12 

12 -12 

12 -12 

12 -25 

12 15 

13-80 

12 31 


Nudanghut (p) 


.. 

12 -26 

12 -26 

12 12 

12 -26 

1 2 22 

14 25 

11 91 


Uushkuru (P) 



11 *87 

11 -87 

11 -87 

12 00 

1 1 -90 

13 55 

12-12 

30 (fin*') Jhingasal 

Kalna . . 



22 00 

22 -00 

22 00 

22 00 

22 00 

24 00 

21-60 

(' (fine) Sitneal 

Burdwan 


.. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

24 -00 

24 50 

24 -25 

N.S. 

N.S. 


Gushka ra 


.. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

23 75 

24 25 

24-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

or (medium) Kalma 

Kalna 



21 r>o 

21 -50 

21-50 

21 25 

21 44 

23 50 

21 00 


Burdwan 


• t 

21 00 

21 -00 

21-00 

21 ‘25 

2 1 . 06 

23 05 

20 94 


Gushkara 


»* 

20 75 

20-75 

20-75 

21 00 

20-81 

22-80 

20.69 

r ^ro tH 8o ) D/ Husked 

Burdwan 


M 

N.S. 

N-S. 

19-75 

19 * 75 

19 • 75 

N.S. 

20-26 

* 

Gushkara 


M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

19-50 

19*50 

19.50 

N.S. 

20 -00 

Pulses (whole). 











■id 

AsaiiHol 


Md. 

21 00 

2100 

21 -60 

21-50 

21-25 

21. 70 

20 00 

id {aiiiu.ll) 

Raniganj 


ft 

18 00 

18 00 

19 00 

19 oo 

18 -50 

19 15 

17-00 

am (bl|^> 

Ditta 


• t 

17-50 

17-50 

17-62 

17-50 

17 -53 

17 35 

18-50 

am (small) . . • . . 

Kalna 


99 

10-00 

15 -60 

16-00 

16-00 

15-87 

1610 

N.S. 

Hot (big) 

Burdwan 


99 

17 -50 

17 00 

17 00 

18-00 

17-37 

17 50 

N.S. 

itsr (am^llf 

Raniganj 

•• 

| 

99 

15-00 

15* 00 

14-00 ! 

N.S. 

14 66 

14. 87 

13-50 

har (big) 

Burdwan 

• a < 

99 

16-50 

18-00 

18-00 

19-00 

17-87 

16-40 

N.S. 

jOHari(big) ... 

Raniganj 


99 

12 00 

12-00 

11-00 

1 1 -00 

11 50 

11-60 

11 -00 

Pulses (Split), 











ni# (ordinary ) 

Momari 


Md. 

26 00 

26 -00 

26-00 

25 00 

25 75 

26-80 

27-00 

* ,)r (big) 

Ditto 


99 

22 -00 

24 00 

24-00 j 

23 *00 

23 25 

22 70 

22-25 


Raniganj 


99 

22 -50 

22 -50 

25 -00 

25 -00 

23 75 

22 -55 

21 00 

"ur (hinall) 

Burdwan 


99 

20 00 

22 00 

22 -00 

22 00 

21 50 

20-80 

20-81 


Memari 


99 

21 -00 

22 -00 

22-00 

22 -00 

21 -75 

21 20 

20-87 


Ditto 


99 

26 -00 

27 00 

27-00 

27 -00 

26 75 

27-80 

23-69 

>d (small) 

Burdwan 


99 

25-00 

26-00 

26-00 

26-00 

25 75 

25-50 

22-75 

w, ‘ (big) 

Memari 


t e 

21 00 

22 00 

22-00 

23 -00 

22 00 

22 20 

22-75 

&,n («mall) 

Burdwan 


99 

18-00 

18-00 

18.00 

2100 

18-75 

% 

19. 00 

21*62 

(small) 

As an sol 


99 

22 00 

22-00 

22-50 

22-50 

22 25 

21-90 

19*66 

^hari (big) 

Burdwan 


9 9 

18 00 

17-00 

17-00 

17 *50 

17 37 

17-70 

17-25 

^ari (small) 

Raniganj 


99 

14-00 

14-00 

14-00 

N.S. 

14 -00 

13-80 

N.S. 

Spices. 











lio “ (deshi) 

Kalna . . 

•• 

Md. 

11 00 

9 -00 

11 00 

9*50 

10 12 

16 -20 

7*50 












SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


2 . r »<; 


Wholesale prices BURDWAN — corad. January n 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday , 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 
month ’a 

A very 
«1 anui 



flth 

13th 

20th 

27th 

average. 

average. 

196 





Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ka. 

{Spices ) — conoid. 











Onion (deahi) 

Burdwaii 


Md. 

11-00 

10 -00 

10 -00 

10 00 

10 25 

14 -60 

it 

Chillies (dry, patnai) 

Katwa 

•• 

•# 

97-00 

87-00 

97-00 

97 00 

87-00 

105 -60 

8* 


Aaansol 


99 

98-00 

98- 00 

100-00 

100 00 

99 00 

103 10 

ll(j 


Burdwan 

•• 

9» 

105-00 

106 00 

106-00 

106 -00 

106-75 

101 20 

103 

Potato and Vegetables. 











Potato ( Nairn! h!) 

AsanBol 


Md. 

1000 

9 50 

9 -50 

9-50 

9 -62 

19 20 

a 

Potato (Rangoon) 

Burdwan 


*» 

10-50 

10-00 

8*50 

8-00 

9 -25 

16*92 

N 

Sweet Potato 

AnanHol 


.. 

10 00 

10-50 

12.00 

12-00 

11. 12 

11 10 

11 


Daluibazar 


• 1 

8-00 

8 -00 

9- 00 

8 00 

8-50 

7 -40 

> 

Brinjal 

Katwa 


*» 

7-50 

7*50 

7.50 

7-60 

7*50 

7-50 

• 



Aeamaol 


ff 

11.00 

11 -00 

12-00 

11-60 

11-37 

16-40 

. v 


Daluibazar 


• • 

0-00 

9-00 

10-50 

10 00 

9 62 

1J -90 

i 

Bittergourd 

Asansol 


II 

14-00 

13-50 

14-00 

14-50 

14 00 

20-70 

N 

Chillies (green) 

Katwa 


»• 

36-50 

36 50 

30 50 

36 50 

36 50 

36-20 

:r. 


Ah&uboI 


99 

32-00 

29-00 

28 -50 

28-00 

29 37 

35-00 

;i: 


Daluibazar 


99 

35 00 

35 00 

34.00 

34.00 

34*50 

35 -00 

li 

Green Plantain 

Aaandol 


100 

5 00 

500 

6 00 

6 00 

5-50 

5-4)0 

•i 


Daluibazar 


M 

3 00 

3 00 

2-50 

2 60 

2-75 

3-00 

1 a 

Fruits ( Fresh). 











Banana (Champa) . . 

AnanHol 


100 

3 12 

3-12 

3 25 

3 25 

3-19 

‘3-17 

2 


Burdwan 


1 I 

3 *00 

4-00 

2-50 

2 50 

3 00 

2 • 50 

- 

Orange (Nagpur) 

Asansol 


H 

8 -00 

8-00 

10-00 

1000 

9 -00 

8 -00 

7 


Burdwan 



1100 

15-00 

12 -00 

14-00 

13-00 

11-60 

s 

Coooanut (green ) 

Ditto 


■ 

22 50 

25-00 

22-00 

22 60 

23 00 

22-5" 

14 


Katwa 


•• 

22 -00 

22 00 

22-00 

23 -50 

22 37 

22-00 

2C 

Fruits {Pry). 











Coooanut (dry) 

Burdwan 

•• 

100 

45-00 

50-00 

45 00 

45-00 

. 46 -26 

37 60 

31 


Asansol 


*1 

35-00 

36 -00 

35-00 

36-00 

36 75 

36-00 

3i 

Egg*. 






1 


i 


14 

Hen Egg (graded) 

Burdwan 

•• 

100 

17 00 

16-00 

15 -00 

15 -00 

16-75 

16-10 

Hen Egg (ungraded) 

Ditto 

•• 

1 

16-75 

15 75 

14 -75 

14 -76 

15 -50 

15 -85 

14 


Asansol 


V'' 

16-25 

16-25 

16 -25 

16 -25 

16 -25 

15-77 

14 


Gushkara 


H 

16 -50 

15 -50 

14 -50 

14 -50 

16 -25 

15 -60 

14 

Duok Egg (graded) 

Burdwan 

•• 


15-62 

15-62 

15-00 

15 00 

16-31 

15 47 

14 

Dock Egg (ungraded) 

Ditto 


1 

15.37 

i 

15 37 

14-76 

14 -75 

16 -06 

15 -22 

14 

















257 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


m&pfcn BURDWAft— conlrf. January 19*2 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection we^ke ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

i c **™ ra ' 

Lawt 

month’s 

average. 

Average of 
January 
1061. 

6th 

13th 

■ 

27th 



p 

lie. nP. 

lta. nl\ 

Rs. nP. 

Ka. nl\ 

He. nP. 

lie. nP. 

R*. nP. 

Eggs. ( oocld .) 










Egg (ungraded) 

ASHJlflOl 

100 

16 12 

16 12 

16 12 

16-12 

16. 12 

16 -32 

15-00 


Guahkar* 


15 12 

15 -12 

14 -60 

14 -50 

14-81 

14 «7 

14-10 

Poultry 










ive weight) . . 

Duniohaai . . 

l'H) lbs. 

115-00 

116 -0O 

115-00 

1 15 -00 

115-00 

115-00 

150-00 

live weight) . 

Ditto 

99 

110-00 

110 -00 

110-00 

1 10 -00 

no oo 

110-00 

110-00 

u (lire weight) 

Ditto 

99 

160 -00 

160 -00 

160 -00 

160-00 

160 00 

160 -00 

160-00 

ilk and Milk Products . 










Jow) 

Kabia 

ltfd. 

28 -00 

28 -00 

28 -00 

28 -00 

28 00 

28-40 

29 -50 


Katwa 

99 

25 00 

26 -00 

25 00 

26-00 

25 00 

24 -60 

22-00 


H uni wan 

»p 

30 -00 

85 00 

30 00 

30-00 

31 -25 

30 -00 

20 -76 

juffalo) . . * 

Kalna 

m 

38-00 

38 -00 

88 -00 

38 -00 

38-00 

38 -00 

37 26 


Aeaneol 

»» 

36 00 

35 -00 

35 -00 

35 -00 

35 -00 

36 -00 

36 00 


liurdwan 

*» 

35 -00 

40-00 

35 00 

35 00 

36 50 

35 00 

34 00 

^ (UQRhUUUMfd) 

Ditto 

*» 

38 -DO 

75 -00 

38 -00 

38 00 

47 26 

38 00 

67 60 


Katwa 

99 

100 00 

100 -00 

100-00 

100-00 

100 00 

101-00 

68-75 

Fish. 

• 









• 

Kalna 

Md. 

115 00 

110-00 

110-00 

110-00 

111 -25 

122 -00 

101-25 

•> * 

Katwa 

H 

90-00 

85-00 

85-00 

85-00 

86-26 

93-00 

N.S. 


Bind wan 


[ 118-00 

115 -00 

115-00 

115-00 

116 76 

110 00 

05 *50 

.. . 

Kalna 

1 ” 

125-00 

120 -00 

120 -00 

120 00 

121 -26 

132 00 

110 00 


Katwa 

1 

»p 

105-00 

105-00 

105 00 

105-00 

106 -00 

109-00 

N.S. 


Burdwan 

it 

120 -00 

120 *00 

120 00 

120 00 

120 00 

120 00 

07 -00 

««p omf Goof. 










i weight 10 sre.) 

Domohapi 

Each 

22 -00 

23 00 

23 -00 

23 00 

23 00 

23 00 

23 -00 


Pachundi 

" 

20 -00 

21 00 

21 00 

21 00 

20 75 

20-60 

20 -50 

* weight 12 era.) 

Domohaui 

.. 

22 -00 

22 -00 

22 00 

22 00 

22 00 

22 00 

22-00 


Paohundi 

•f 

20-00 

21-00 

21-00 

21-00 

20-75 

20-00 

N.8. 

Hikh Cattle . 










k yielding 1 or. dally) . . 

Lalganj 

Each 

110-00 

J10-00 

110-00 

110 -00 

110-00 

110-00 

110-00 


Pachundi 

99 

115-00 

115 -00 

112 -50 

110-00 

113 12 

109 *00 

70 00 

^ yielding 3 ere. daily) 

Lalganj 

PI 

260 -00 

260-00 

250 -00 

250 -00 

260 -00 

250 -00 

256 00 


Pachundi 

M 

175-00 

176-00 

175 00 

175-00 

176-00 

193-40 

N.S 

Vault fodder. 










ftw 

• • M 

Kalna 

Kahan 

31 -00 

33 -00 

82-60 

32 -50 

32 -25 

31 -00 

29 -25 



of 










16 Mds. 









Daluibazar . « 


32 00 

32 -00 

32-00 

31 00 

81 -76 

29 -60 

32 -87 

1 

Gushk&ra , , 

— - a ■ 

pi I 

80 00 

80*00 

80*00 

80-00 

80 00 

28 00 

33-00 










258 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, ;UNE 28, 1962 


WtotaMte prices BURDWAN — concld. January 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 
month ’& 



6th 

13 th 

20th 

27th 

average. 

average. 





Rb. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Rb. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Ra. nl\ 


Oil . 










Mustard 

Burdwan 

Md 

96 60 

100-00 

102 00 

101 *00 

99-75 

96-10 



Memari 

*> 

96 00 

100 00 

102-00 

o 

o 

2 

100 -00 

96 -20 



Raniganj 

*» 

03 00 

93 - 0<r 

96 -00 

96 -00 

94 *60 

97 -50 


Oilcake, 










Mustard 

Burdwan 

Md. 

11-50 

11-00 

11 -00 

11 -50 

11-25 

12-00 



Memari 

M 

11 00 

11-00 

11-00 

J 0-60 

10 -87 

11 -81 



Raniganj 

• • 

10-76 

10-60 

11 -26 

11-25 

10 -94 

11-45 


Tobacco, 










Motihari • • 

Burdwan 

Md. 

160 00 

160 -00 

160 00 

160 -00 

160 -ho 

16S -00 



Katwa 

■ 

110-00 

110-00 

110 CM ) 

110-00 

110*00 

117-00 



Raniganj 


170 00 

170-00 

170-00 

170 -00 

170 00 

16S -00 


Bidi ... 

Burdwan 


180-00 

180 -00 

180 00 

180 -00 

180-00 

173 00 



ARanaol 

1 

180 -00 

180 -00 

180 *00 

180 -00 

180*00 

180 00 


Fibre . 


■ 








Tute I, M.Dt. 

Kalnn 

1 

30 00 

29 -50 

28-00 

29 • 00 

29 -12 

29-10 



Katwa 


28-60 

28-60 

20 60 

26 -50 

27 60 

• *27 60 



Memari 

99 

29 00 

28-00 

28-00 

27 00 

28-00 

27-90 


MieceUaneou *. 










Our (BImiU) 

Kalna 

Md. 

20 -00 

19 00 

19 -00 

15 -00 

18 -37 

22 -00 



Raniganj 

#» 

18-00 

17-00 

17 -00 

17 -50 

17 -37 

is 10 



Burdwan 

>» 

18-00 

18-60 

18*50 

16-50 

17*87 

20*60 


Our (cane) 

Kalna 

•• 

22-00 

22 -00 

19 -00 

16-00 

19 -50 

24 -20 



K atwa 

ft 

16-62 

N.S. 

16 -50 

16 -60 

16-54 

15 00 



Burdwan 

I » 

21-00 

19-50 

19-50 

18-00 

19 -50 

21 00 


Qur (G. Rab.) 

Burdwan 

»* 

12-00 

4 -75 

4*75 

4*75 

6-56 

lO-oo 


Firewood (Common) 

Kalna 

99 

2 -60 

2-50 

2 -50 

2 -50 

2-50 

2-60 



Burdwan 

M 

2-00 

2 00 

2 *00 

2 00 

2-00 

1 -90 


Flattened 1 rit*»‘ 

Ditto 

• » 

26 -00 

26 -00 

26 -00 

26 -00 

26-00 

28 00 



Raniganj 

t* 

26 -00 

26 -00 

25 -00 

25 -00 

25-00 

25 -40 


Parched Bioe 

Burdwan 

M 

28-00 

36 -00 

36 -00 

38 -00 

34*26 

30 00 

















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALTUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28. 1962 


259 


iMAto prices BIRBHUM Jtnuery 1862 


Commodity. 

Namo of Market. 

Unit. 

Colieotion weeks ended Saturday. 

dated—' 

Monthly 

average. 

Laat 
month 'a 
average. 

Average of 
January , 
1961. 

6th 

13th 

n 

27th 

Cereal §. 




Ha. nP. 

Ra. nr. 

He. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ha. iiP. 

Hs. nP. 

Be. nP. 

Paddy (fine) (Kamaal) 

Sainthia 

. , 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Paddy (medium) (Kalma) 

Ditto 


ff 

11 *25 

11 -50 

11-62 

11-26 

11 40 

11-16 

11-62 

Paddy (ooame) (Sinduromkhi) . . 

Ditto 

. . 

M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Rice (fine) (Ramaal) 

Ditto 

. . 

„ 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

NJ3. 

Rice (medium) (Kalma) 

Ditto 

. . 

• • 

20 00 

20 25 

20-12 

20- 00 

20 00 

00 

da 

20-12 

Rice (ooame) (Sindurmukhi) 

Ditto 

*• 

M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Pulses (whole). 











Kalo-kalai . . 

Sainthia 

. . 

Md. 

21 12 

21-00 

21-00 

20 75 

20 97 

22 16 

18-26 

Gram . . 

Ditto 


BP 

1712 

17-50 

18-00 

19*00 

17-90 

17-30 

17-26 

Pulses (split). 











Mung (ordinary) 

Sainthia 

. . 

Md. 

26 00 

26-00 

27 00 

26-60 

28-87 

26-20 

26-26 

Marrar (big) 

Ditto 

. . 

•* 

22-50 

22 00 

22-50 

24-00 

22-76 

21-60 

21-37 

aram (big) 

Ditto 


•t 

20-00 

20-60 

23 00 

24 00 

21-87 

20-92 

23*12 

Arhar (big) 

Ditto 

. . 

„ 

23-00 

24 00 

24-00 

25-00 

24-00 

26-80 

22*26 

KhamH (big) 

* 

Ditto 

•• 

»f 

17-25 

17-60 

18-00 

17-60 

17-66 

17-00 

15-00 

Spices . 




I 







Onion (Deahi, round) 

Rampurhat 

•• 

Md. 

10-00 

9-00 

9-00 

8 00 

9-00 

12-80 

7-75 

Potato and vegetables . 











Potato (deahi, round) 

Rampurhat 

. , 

Md. | 

9-50 

9-50 

9-50 

9-00 

9-37 

15-20 

6*75 

Brinjal (deahi) 

Ditto 

. , 

| »» 

600 

600 

6 00 

6 00 

6 -CO 

8-40 

650 

Cabbage (deahi) 

Ditto 

. . 

*» 

12-00 

10 00 

8-00 

8 00 

9 50 

12 76 

9 00 

Tomato (deahi) 

Ditto 

•• 

M 

9-00 

7 00 

6-00 

6-00 

7 00 

12-37 

8*00 

Bgg*> 








% 

# 


a< * 'eg* 

Chatra 

• . 

100 

11-50 

12-50 

12-60 

12-50 

12-25 

J2-87 

11*44 

^•SS* 

Ditto 

• • 

M 

12-00 

12-50 

11-50 

11-50 

11-87 

17-26 

11*56 

Poultry. 











p »wl (live wt. 1 «r.) 

Chatra 

e e 

Each 

2*26 

2*50 

2-50 

2*25 

2*37 

2-46 

2-12 

(tty. *t. 1 

Ditto 

e e 

fp 

2*00 

2* 12 

2-00 

2*00 

2*03 

2.02 

1*87 

^ - - | ^ ■ - 






















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETFTE, JUNE 28^ 19«2 


I — concld. 


tm 


Commodity* 


Milch cattle. 

Cow yielding 2 m. of milk a . day 

Cattle fodder. 

Paddy straw 

Oil and ail cak $ . 

Mustard oil 
Mustard oil oake 


Miscellaneous. 


Our (Velly) 


Name of Market. 


Sainthia 


Sainthia 


Sainthia • 
Ditto > 


Sainthia 


Unit. 


Bach 


Kahan 
of 
18 


Md. 


Md. 


'Collection weeks ended Saturday* 
dated— 


} 6th 


Re* nP. 
282 80 

27*80 


92-80 

11*80 


17*18 


18th 


Rs. nP. 

388*80 

27*80 


92*80 

11*00 


17*25 


20th 


Rs. nP. 
198*00 


27th 


Rs. nP. 

188*88 


30 00 80*00 


97*50 

11*50 


14*50 


87 00 
10*50 


16*00 


Monthly 

average. 


Rs. nP. 
180 25 

28*62 


95*00 

10*12 


16*25 


Last 

month's 

average. 


Rs. nP. 


29*20 


91*30 

12*50 


17*90 


Avmg. 0 f 

January. 

1961. 


Rs. nP. 
185*80 

52 00 


96*62 

12*87 


17*87 













261 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


Mietate prices 


Commodity. 


bankura 


January fm 


Nome of Market. 


Cereals . 

[y Aman Sitaaal (fine) .. Bankura <P, 
Viahnupur (P) 
Kotulpur (p) 

ly Amon Kalamkoli Bankura (P) 

idy Aman JWngaaal (medium) Viahnupur (p) 

Bbtulpur(P) 


d> Aman Nona (ooame) . . Bankura (P) 
Viahnupur (p) 
Kotulpur (p) 

Aman Sitaaal (fine) . . Bankura ( P) 
Viahnupur (P) 
Kotulpur (P) 

Aman Kalamkati (raodium) Bankura (P) 

Aman Jhingaaal (medium) * Viahnupur (p) 
Kotulpur (P) 

iman(^w) .. Bankura (P, 

BiHhnupur (P) 
Kotulpui (P) 

ma Noaa (ooaree) (Old) Bankura (P) 
Viahnupur (P) 
Kotulpur (P) 
Nona (ooarao) (New) Bankura ( P) 

Biahnupur (P) 


Aman Si ta sal (flue) 


Iman (Now) 


Pultu (whole). 
'Shari (big) 

® 14r > (amaU) 

^)(big, .. 
^* ot ) («nall) 


Kotulpur (V) 

Bankura 

Viahnupur 

Bankura 

Viahnupur 

Bankura 
I Viahnupur 
Bankura 
Viahnupur 


Collection week* ended Saturday. 

dat«l_ Monthiy Laat 

— “vemg„. month ’i JaaUSjT 

6th 13th 20th 27th average. mi . " 

nP. Ha. nP. Ra. nP. Ra. nP. Ka. nP. R.. nP ~ ~ 


13 00 13- 00 1875 ' 13-70 
13-60 12- 60 12 60 13 00 
K.S. 12*60 12-76 12-76 

11-76 11-76 12-00 12-26 
11*00 H-00 10*87 H-26 
10-87 10*87 10-87 11-00 

10-76 10-60 11-00 11-76 
10*76 10-76 10-02 10-76 
10-76 10-02 I 10-02 10-75 


I 22-00 

N.S. 

[ N.S. 
22-76 
N.8. 
N.S. 
20*60 
19-00 
18-60 


23 00 

1 23 00 

22-50 

21 00 

22 00 

21-33 

N.S. 

21 -SO 

21-60 

N.S. 

N.S. 

22-76 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S- 

N.S. 

N.S. 


21-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

18-00 

18-60 

18*00 


N-S* N.S. 21-61 

N-8. N.S. N.S. 

N.S. N.S. N.S. 

N-8. N.S- N.S. 

20-26 20-60 20-76 

! 1875 18*60 19-00 

18-26 18-26 18-60 

N .8. N.S. N.S. 

N.S. N.S. N.S. 

N.S. N.S. N.S. 

17- 76 18*26 18-76 

18- 00 18-00 18-60 

17-60 17-60 18-00 


22-00 
N.S. j 
N.S. 
22-20 
20-95 
20-67 
20-30 
19-12 
18-76 

21-00 

20-00 

20-00 

18-00 

18-02 

18-20 


23-60 

22-37 

22-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

21-12 

19-00 

18-87 


I 22-26 23-00 24-00 24-00 

22-50 23-25 23-60 24-00 

21*60 22-00 23-00 23-00 

N.S. N.S. N.S. N.S. 

21- 75 21-00 21-60 21-00 

22- 60 22-60 20-00 20-00 

18- 75 19-00 19-60 20*00 

19- 76 20*00 N.S. N.S. 


‘*02 


SUPPLEMENT TO T1IE CALCUTTA GA7TTTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


Wholesale prices BAN KURA — contd. January it 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 

month’s 

■ 

6th 

13 th 

20th 

27th 

average. 

average. 

H 




Kb. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

He. o 

Pulses ( split)* 










Arahar (Big) 

Bankura 

Md. 

21 00 

20 60 

23-60 

23 00 

22 26 

21 90 

20] 


V ishnupur 

»» 

20 75 

21-00 

20-76 

23-00 

21 37 

20-76 

19 « 

Arahor (Small) 

Bankura 

»» 

20-60 

N.S. 

21-50 

21-60 

21-16 

20-60 

lb-i 


Vishnu pur 

ft 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

\.b 

Spices . 










Onion (Madras) • • • • 

Bankura 

Md. 

11 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

11 00 

16-60 

12 0 


V ishnupur 

99 

13-00 

12-60 

12 -r.o 

12-60 

12-02 

17-60 

1 1 


Kotulpur 

99 

13-60 

13-00 

13 00 

13-00 

13-12 

18-00 

17 * 

Onion (Bombay) 

Bankura 

»» 

N.S. 

1100 

9-00 

10-00 

10-00 

16-00 

11 


Viahnupur 

M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

• N.S. 

NS 


Kotulpur 

M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

•N.S. 

N.S 

Chillies (dry) (Jarda) 

Bankura 

t 9 

92-00 

90 -00 

84-00 

85-00 

87-76 

108-60 

86-i 


Viahnupur 

»* 

96-00 

90-00 

99 00 

88-00 

94-75 

97-60 

80 

Chillies (dry) (Bihar) 

Bankura 

»» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

95-00 

93 00 

94 00 

102 40 

HD 


Viahnupur 

•• 

94 -00 

92-00 

94-00 

80-00 

91-60 

96 00 

82 

M%lk and milk products. 







1 



Ghee (buffalo) 

Viahnupur (P) 

Md. 

230 00 

240 00 

240-00 

240 00 

237 60 

230 00 

2351 

Chbana (skimmed) 

Ditto 

»• 

30-00 

30 00 

30 -00 

30-00 

30-00 

29* 00. 

301 

Chhana (unskimmed) 

Ditto 

1 9 

76 -00 

76 00 

76 00 

75 00 

76-00 

76 00 

75! 

Oilseeds . Oil & Oil cake. 








♦ 


Mustard Oilseed 

Bankura 

Md. 

30-00 

39 00 

u 

6 

o 

88 00 

38-26 

85 00 

37 1 


Viahnupur 

99 

36-76 

37 00 

37 50 

86-60 

80 -94 

87-26 

37 

Mustard oil 

Bankura 

99 

92 00 

96 00 

96-00 

97-00 

94-76 

90 -70 

92 ■ 


Viahnupur 


92 00 

96 00 

95 -50 

90-00 

94-62 

90-60 

92 

Mustard oil oako 

Bankura 


11 -60 

11 76 

11 25 

11 76 

11 -56 

12 10 

11 


Viahnupur 

t* 

11-02 

11 76 

11-60 

11*37 

11-56 

12 27 

11 

T obacco. 










Bidi tobacco (Nepani) 

Bankura 

Md. 

200-00 

200 00 

200 00 

200 -00 

200-00 

200-00 

200' 

• • 

Viahnupur 


210-00 

210-00 

210 -00 

210-00 

210-00 

210 00 

SCO 

Lae . 










Stick Lao (BaiBhkahi) 

Khatra (P) 

Md. 

35 00 

36-00 

34-00 

34-00 

34-50 

33*60 

48 

Sheen and goat. 









19 

Goat (He) (8 seers of meat wt.) 

Kotulpur 

Each 

20-60 

21 00 

21 00 

21 -00 

20-87 

20 -60 

Oattle fodder. 










Paddy straw (New) 

Jhantipahari 

Per 
Kahan 
of 14 
Mds. 

20-60 

21-00 

20-00 

20-00 

20-37 

23-00 

26 


















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


263 


lu lt tfl i ffiOM BANKURA— conoid. January 1962 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 

month’s 

Average of 

January, 

1961. 




6th 

)8th 

20th 

27th 

average. 

average. 




Ba. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Be. nP. 

Be. nP. 

Be. nP. 

Be. nP. 

Be. nP. 

Hid e and skin. 










£•10 Hide* 

Khatra (P) 

Par 

20 00 

20 00 

20 00 

21 00 

20-26 

21 80 

21 26 

IT M 

Ditto 

Piece 

M 

800 

8 00 

9-00 

8 00 

8-26 | 

9 60 

9*87 

at 9*da 

Ditto 

II 

8 00 

8 26 

3 60 

3 00 

3 19 

3 00 

8-31 

pep ekin 

Ditto 

” 

1-25 

1 26 

1 76 

126 

1 37 

1 46 

1*87 

Miscellaneous. 










illy gur 

Bankura 

Md. 

19-00 

18-60 

17-00 

18-00 

18-12 

20 20 

16 76 


Vishnupur 

»» 

19-25 

20-50 

17-60 

17-00 

18 60 

18 06 

16-87 

sue gur 

Bankuia 

M 

26 00 

18-50 

16 00 

10 00 

18*87 

22 40 

15 75 

, 

Vishnupur 

II 

N.S. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

15*00 

•to 

Bankura 

M 

43 00 

40-00 

43 00 

43 00 

42 26 

43 40 

89 62 


Vishnupur 

M 

42 50 

43 00 

43 00 

42-60 

42-76 

43 80 

41-26 

Firewood, 










immou Shal 

Vishnupur 

Md. 

2 26 

2-26 

2 26 

2 26 

2-26 

2-26 

2-00 


Peardoba 

91 

2-12 

2 12 

2 12 

2-12 

2 12 

2 12 

2-00 



















264 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 



Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Moathly 

average. 

Last 
month *e 
average. 


6th 

13 th 

20th 

27th 






Rh. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. aP. 

Re. aP. 

Re. aP. 

Re. aP. 

R in 

Cereals. 












Paddy (Medium) Rupsai 

(New) 

Midn&pore 


Md. 

12 00 

12 25 

12-00 

12-60 

12-10 

am 

ill 

Paddy (Medium) Balam 


Ghatal 



11 00 

11-00 

11*25 

11*76 

11*26 

10*94 

111 

Paddy (Medium) (Patnai) 


Kalinagar ( P) 


99 

IS- 00 

13 00 

12-50 

12-60 

12-75 

12-75 

N.S 

Poddy (Medium) Bupsal 

(Old) 

Midnapur 



N,S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13-25 

x.s 

Paddy (Medium) Holarn 

*• 

Gliatal 



N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12-55 

NS, 

Paddy (Medium) Patnai 

•• 

Kalinagar (P) 


•• 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S, 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13-25 

12*3 

Paddy (Coarse) Garh 

(New) 

Mid nape re 



10 02 

10-75 

11-00 

11 00 

10 84 

10-25 

11H 



Ghiital 



10-75 

10-75 

1100 

11-60 

11-00 

11-15 

m 



Kulinagar (P) 


M 

11 00 

11 50 

11 00 

11-00 

11-25 

11*31 

MEM 

Paddy (t ’oar sc) Garh 

(Old) 

Midnajjore 



N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S, 

N.S. 

11-76 

By 



Ghatal 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12*46 

1 



Kalinagar (P) 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12-13 

N.S. 

Rice (Fine) Sitaeat 

(New) 

Midnapore 


M 

23-50 

23 GO 

23-60 

23 50 

23-50 

N.S. 

23- fc 



Kharagpur 


ft 

24 00 

24 GO 

25 00 

25-25 

24 69 

« 

24-63 

N.S. 

Rice (Medium) Rupsel 

(New) 

Midnapore 


• • 

21-50 

21-50 

21-50 

22 00 

21 62 

21-00 

2ii 

Rice (Medium) (Balam) 

•• 

Ghatal 


■* 

19-00 

18-25 

18-50 

19-00 

18-19 

19 25 

. 1S-H 

Rice (Medium) (Rupsai) 

#» 

Kharagpur 


'* 

21-00 

21 -50 

22 00 

22 00 

21 62 

21 25 

N.S. 

Rice (Medium) Rupsai 

(Old) 

Midnapore 


1 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

23; 00 

23-7 

Rice Medium Balam 

M 

Ghatal 


' M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

22-00 

23(J 

Rice Medium Rupsai 

f» 

Kharagpur 


II 

19-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

19-00 

19-76 

18-6 

Rice (Coarse) Garh 

(Now) 

Midnapore 


„ 

19-00 

19 00 

19 00 

19-00 

19-00 

18-80 

19*7 



Ghatal 


99 

17-50 

17-00 

17-50 

18-00 

17*50 

18 36 

18-1 



Kharagpur 


99 

18-00 

18-75 

19-00 

19-00 

18-69 

18-63 

N.S. 

Rice (Coarse) Garh 

(Old) 

Midnapur 

! 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

20*70 

20-8 



Ghatal 


\ M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

17*55 

21-0 



Kharagpur 


- 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

1 N.S. 

N.S. 

19*75 

N.S- 

« * 

Pulses ( Whole ). 


I 










Mung (Ordinary) 

•• 

Manikpara 


Md. 

22-00 

20 60 

20-00 

20*50 

20-87 

22*31 

22-5' 

Urid (Small) 

•• 

Ditto 


»» 

18-25 

17-50 

17-50 

18*50 

17*94 

18*75 

15-9 

Gram (Small) 

•• 

Ditto 


»• 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

18-3 

Gram (Big Punjab) 

• • 

Kharagpur 


i* 

17-00 

17- 00 

18-00 

18*00 

17*60 

17*00 

18-4 

Kheeari 


Dudkumra 


t* 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S* 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

na 













SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


26$ 


jwiiwin prion MIDNAPORE — cantd. January IMS 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 

month's 

Average of 
January, 
1961. 




| 6th 

13th 

20th 

27th 

average. 

.average. 





IBB 

Ks. np. 

Rs. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rs. nP 

Rs. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

PuUes (Split). 











lung (Ordinary; . . 

Midnapore 


Md. 

25-00 

25 *50 

26 *00 

20-00 

26-02 

25-00 

30 00 


Kharagpur 


n 

24 00 

25*00 

25-00 

25-00 

24-76 

24-00 

26-37 

imar(Big) 

Midnapore 


*• 

25*60 

25*50 

24-50 

26-00 

25*00 

24*40 

23 00 


Kharagpur 

- 1 

»» 

24*00 

25 00 

25-60 

25 00 

24-87 

23-00 

20-44 

[ypjr (Small) 

Ditto 



22*00 

23*00 

24 00 

24-00 

23-25 

21-60 

18*19 

run (Big) 

Ditto 

•• 

M 

19 00 

10*76 

20*00 

20-00 

10-00 

10-26 

20-69 

Spices. 











bon (Bombay) 

Midnapore 


Md. 


18 00 

12-00 

10*00 

14*50 

17*80 

18*25 


Kharagpur 


.. 

10 50 

11-00 

10-50 

10-60 

11-62 

13-00 

12-00 

flion (Tripuri) » . . 

Midnapore 


*> 


18 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

18 -00 

17*80 

14*37 

aion (Patnai) 

Kharagpur 

•• 

H 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

Potato and Vegetables . 











atato (Nainital) 

Midnapore 

. . 

Md. 

11 *00 

11-00 

10*00 

9-50 

10-37 

19-80 

8-87 

i 

Amiagora 


*» 

10-00 

10*00 

9-00 

8-50 

9-37 

19-20 

812 

* 

Dudkutnra 


»• 

12-50 

11*00 

10*00 

8*00 

10-37 

13-50 

7*60 

atato (Nainital* Behar) 

Kharagpur 



12*50 

11-60 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12*00 

16*10 

9-06 

»tato (Madras) 

Midnapore 


•t 

10*00 

10-00 

9-00 

8-50 

9*37 

N.S. 

7-12 


Amiagora 

• • 

tt 

8-00 

8-00 

7*00 

6*50 

7*37 

N.S. 

6-37 


Dudkumra 

. . 

tt 

10*00 

9*50 

8*50 

7*00 

8-75 

N.S. 

6-30 


Kharagpur 

•• 

*• 

11*00 

10-50 

N.S. 

N.S. 

10-76 

13*50 

7-50 

toto (Cold Storage) 

Kharagpur 

. . 

»t 

N.S. 

N.S. 

11*00 

11-00 

11-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

»t«to (Deehi, Behar) 

Kharagpur 



N.S. 

N.S. 

9-50 

9*60 

9*60 

N.S. 

N.S. 

^ Pumpkin 

Amiagora 

. . 

tt 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S, 

N.S. 

N.S. 

6*70 

N.S. 


Jhargram 


•t 

7*50 

7-60 

7*60 

N.S. 

7-60 

7-60 

N.S. 


Dudkumra 

•• 

»t 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

5*00 

5*00 

N.S. 

6-50 

Eggt and Poultry. 











* Egg (Ungraded) 

Binpur 


lOOMos. 

12*50 

<■ 12-50 

12-50 

9*00 

11-62 

. 13 \ i0 

10-00 

*1 (live weight 1 i seers) 

Ditto 


Each 

3*75 

3*75 

3*75 

4*50 

3-94 

3*65 

3-81 


Tengra 

-• 

tt 

3-75 

3*75 

3*75 

3*50 

3*62 

3-50 

2*62 

Sheep and Chat. 

(Hve weight 12 seers) 

Binpur 


Each 

20*00 

20*00 

20-00 

22*00 

20-50 

20-00 

19*50 

,,v ® weight 14 seers) 

Ditto 

. . 

9f 

34*00 

34*00 

34-00 

35*00 

34-25 

32-80 

24 75 

live weight 12 seers) 

lengra 

- 


24-00 

24* 25 

24*00 1 

25*00 1 

24*30 

23*80 

22*25 














266 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


Who* wale prices MIDNAPMC — omcld. Ihimj 19* 


Commodity. 

* 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated— 

Monthly 

* 

Last 

month** 

■j 




6th 

13th 

20th 

27th 

average. 

average. 







Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rs. nP. 


Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Ra. & 

Fruits {Dry). 












Cashew (Kernel) 

•• 

Contai (P) 

•• 

Md. 

120 00 

120-00 

120 00 

120 00 

120-00 

120-00 

160*( 

Cattle Fodder . 












Faddy (Straw) 

(Old) 

Belli ohak 


Md. 

1-60 

1-26 

1-25 

1-60 

1-37 

1-40 

N.8. 

Paddy (Straw) 

(New) 

Baliohak 


#9 

100 

1*00 

1-00 

1-26 

1-06 

N.S. 

1*2 

Milk and Milk Products. 











MUk (Buffalo) 

. . 

Amlagora 


Md. 

28 00 

30*00 

28*00 

28*00 

28*60 

28-00 

30.( 

Cbanna (Skimmed) 

. • 

Ditto 


** 

60- 00 

66*00 

54 00 

54 00 

53-50 

51-20 

67*{ 

Butter (Looal) 


tihatal 


*» 

220 00 

220*00 

220*00 

230 00 

222*50 

220*00 

240*1 

Oil and Oilcake. 












Mustard Oil 


Midoapore 


Md. 

90*00 

94*00 

96-00 

97-00 

94-25 

92-00 

97 •( 



Kharagpur 


*» 

92*00 

85*00 

97-00 

97-00 

95-37 

90*20 

U2-C 

Oil and Oilcake — conoid. 











Mustard Oilcake 


Amlagora 


Md. 

11*60 

11 50 

11*00 

10*50 

11-12 

13*90 

1(M 



Dudkumra 


»• 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12-47 

11*1 



Kharagpur 


M 

1200 

11*75 

11-50 

10*76 

11-50 

12*70 

12-1 

Fibres. 









* 



Jute (Garsat) 


Dudkumra 


Md. 

31-00 

32-00 

32*00 

83 00 

32*00 

28-9Q 

53t 



Kolaghat 


M 

34 00 

35*00 

35*00 

86*00 

34 75 

30-00 

% 541 

Miscellaneous . 












Our (Cane) 

(Old) 

Amlagora 


Md. 

12 00 

13 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12 50 

12-70 

14 a 

Our 

( ew) 

Amlagara 



18*60 

20*00 

16*00 

13*60 

17-00 

17*00 

11 

Firewood 


Ditto 



N.S. 

2*00 

2*00 

2*00 

2*00 

1-80 




Jhargiom 

. • 

•• 

1*76 

1*76 

1*75 

1*76 

1-75 

1*75 

H 

Betel leaves 


Tamluk 

•• 


400 

3 50 

4*50 

4*00 

4-00 

3-10 

51 
















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


267 


riUtto fWices PURULIA January IMS 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collect 

6th 

ion weekz 
date* 

13th 

ended b 
d — 

20th 

aturday, 

27th 

Monthly 

average. 

Laet 

mouth’s 

average. 

Averajre 

January, 

1961. 






Rs. nP. 


He. nP. 

Re. ol\ 

Kh. nP. 

Us. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Cereals. 












lv (Fine) (SitAMl) 


Purulia 


Md. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 



Manbazar (P) 


09 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

NA. 

t y (Medium) (Bahai) 


Purulia 


» 

9-75 

10-00 

10 12 

10-25 

10 03 

Old 1100 

10 66 











NewlO-02 




Manbazar (p) 


*» 

10*60 

10-87 

10-60 

10*60 

10 59 

0-95 

10-31 

lv (Coarse) (Lali) 


Purulia 



9-76 

9-60 

9-76 

10-26 

9 81 

Old 11-00 

10-56 











Newl0 02 




Manbazar (P) 


99 

10 -00 

10 00 

10 00 

10-26 

1006 

9 96 

10 31 

i(Fiue) (SitMAl) 


Purulia 


•• 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 



Manbazar (P) 


» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

((Medium) (Bahai) 

.. 

Purulia 



1600 

16-60 

16-26 

17 25 

16-60 

Old 19 OH 

17 60 











NewlH • 16 




Manbazar (P) 



16-60 

16-60 


18-00 

17 26 

Old 1M 33 

16 87 











NowlO-83 


{Coarse) (Lali) » 


Purulia 



16-00 

16-76 

16-00 

16-00 

15-94 

Old 1H 08 

16 60 

1 










Newl6-12 




Manbazar (P) 


• • 

16 00 

16 00 

16-60 

16-26 

16 19 

New 16- 10 

16 00 

Pulses (Whole). 












r (Khari)(Big) 

•• 

Purulia 


Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

19 87 

(Black) (Small) 

• 1 

Ditto 

•• 

*# 

30 00 

30-00 

30-00 

30-00 

30 00 

29 46 

24*00 

PuUtm (Split). 












(Dal) 


Purulia 


Md. 

28 00 

27-00 

27 00 

27-00 

27 26 

28 45 

28 00 

(Dal) 

•• 

Ditto 

•• 

*» 

18 00 

20 00 

20-00 

21 00 

19-76 

19 60 

21 12 

Oil and Oileake. 












ird oil 

- • 

Purulia 

• • 

Md. 

96-00 

96-00 

100-00 

100 00 

98 00 

93 40 

90-26 

Hd oiloake 

*■ 

Ditto 

•• 

» 

13 00 

13-60 

13 00 

12 26 

12 94 

13 26 

12*00 

Potato and Onion. 












10 (tod. Hound) 

•• 

Manbazar (P) 


[ Md. 

N.S. 

10 00 

9 00 

8-00 

9-00 

13 83 

7-12 

to (Bihar) 

. . 

Ditto 


» 

10-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

10-00 

16 50 

7-87 

(Nainital) .. 

a • 

Ditto 


M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

k • 

N.S. 

N.S. 

►Ukdiaa) „ 

aa 

Ditto 

• a 

•» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

NA. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

27-60 

NJ3. 

l %) (Imported) 

• a 

Ditto 

e • 

•# 

14*00 

14-00 

13*00 

13*00 

13-50 

15 80 

13 25 

toibhOaHU. 








■ 




^ yield 1 »r. daily) 

• e 

Kaahipur (P) 

• • 

Each. 

120*00 

120*00 

130 00 

120 00 

122 -60 

117 40 

102-00 

^ yield 2 are. daily) 

• e 

Ditto 


• 9 

216-00 

216 -00 

i 



217-60 

223 -40 

180 -00 

^ yield a art. <Ufly) 

•• 

Ditto 

•• 

M 

826-00 




326*00 

334 00 

296-75 













268 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, ]UNE 28, 1962 


Wholesale prices PURULIA — concld. January i 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month’s 

Aven 

Jani] 

19< 




0th 

13th 

20th 

27th 

average. 






Re. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

R*. nP. 

Re, 

Poultry. 












Fowl (Live weight lir.) 

• • 

Kashipur (P) 


Eaoh. 

4-60 

4*00 

4-70 

4-00 

4*06 

4.90 

1 

Egg*. 












Hen Eggs 

•• 

Kashipur (P) 

• • 

Dozen 

125 

I 26 

1-20 

1-85 

1-20 

I 31 

1 

JDuok Eggs 

• • 

Ditto 

• • 

M 

1-80 

1-80 

1-80 

1-80 

1-80 

1 96 

1 

Milk. 












i k>w 

• • 

Kashipur (P) 

.. 

Md. 

SO 00 

80 00 

30 00 

30 00 

30 00 

29 00 

SC 

Buffalo 

•• 

Ditto 

•• 

•» 

30 00 

30 00 

85 00 

80 00 

36 00 

83 00 

Sfl 

Lao and Shellac. 




i 

i 








T. N. Shellao 


Balarampur 


Md. 

N.S. 

40 00 

41-00 

41 00 

40 06 

66 00 

80 

T. N. Shellac, Standard I 


Ditto 


m 

76-00 

63-00 

62-00 

02-00 

65-00 

72-70 

n 

T. N. Shellac, Standard II 


Ditto 


it 

70 00 

00 00 

01-00 

01 00 

63 -00 

70 00 

64 

Yellow Shellao 


Ditto 


M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

00 00 

NJ 

Buttonlao (Beet) 


Ditto 


M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

04 00 

■ 

Seedlao Kusu m 


Ditto 


M 

N.S. 

40 00 

40 -00 

40-00 

40-00 

66 60 

65 

Seedlao Rangin 


Ditto 


• » 

33 00 

30 00 

31-00 

31-00 

31-26 

32 40 

60 

Seedlao Baisakhi 


Ditto 


M 

86-00 

20 00 

25 00 

20 00 

27-76 

3« Q0 

65 

Stioklao Kuauin 


Jhalda 


M 

42-00 

40 00 

38 00 

30-60 

39-12 

41 2o‘ 

52 

Stioklao Rangin 

•• 

Ditto 


>» 

24 00 

21-60 

20 00 

20-60 

21-60 

22-70 

37- 

Stioklao Baisakhi 

•• 

Ditto 


M 

34 00 

30 00 

28 00 

N.S. 

30 06 

31 50 

S7*i 













SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


269 


*»—*■« JAUPAMWM Juiury INt 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month*! 

overage. 

Average of 
January, 
1961. 

6th 

13th 

20th 

27th 





Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

R*. nP. 

Ra. uP. 

R«. nP. 

Cereal*. 



* 








jdy (Fine) Nani* 

Old .. 

Dhupguri (P) 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N,S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13 *6C 

17*00 

II 

New 

Ditto 

M 

10-60 

12 *00 

11*75 

12 00 

11*66 

10-26 

15*60 

If 

New 

Samuktala (P) 

M 

N.S. 

N.B. 

N.S. 

N.B. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Idy (Medium) Dodluto Old 

Dhupguri (P) 

•* 

N.8. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

13-00 

13-26 

»» 

New 

Ditto 

II 

10 00 

11*00 

10*75 

10*75 

10*62 

9*49 

12-00 

idy (Medium) Joehoa Old . . 

Samuktala (P) 

II 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

13 10 

13-60 

• » 

New 

Ditto 

II 

10-76 

11-00 

11*50 

11-60 

11*19 

10-19 

12-67 

ddy (Coarse) Bagra Old . . 

Dhupguri (P) 

ll 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12 00 

11*62 

»» 

New 

Ditto 

If 

9-76 

10-76 

10-50 

10*50 

10-37 

9 25 

10-76 

»« 

Old 

Samuktala (P) 

II 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

12-60 


New 

Ditto 

II 

10-00 

10*25 

10*50 

11*00 

10-44 

9-44 

12*00 

* (Fine) Nurna 

Old .. 

Dhupguri 

• 1 

N.S. 

N-8. 

ne. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

NJJ. 

NJ3. 

»» 

New 

Ditto 

It 

N.S. 

21-00 

21*00 

21-00 

21*00 

N.S. 

N.8. 

»» 

Old 

J alpaiguri 

II 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

II 

New 

Ditto 

II 

v .s. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N f 8. 

29*00 

If 

Old 

Alipurduar 

II 

N.S. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

II 

New 

Ditto 

II 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

22*83 

N.S. 

« (Mediuxft) thrdkalam Old . . 

Dhupguri 

II 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N,S. 

20*62 

22-60 

»» 

New 

Ditto 

II 

20-00 

20-00 

20*00 

20*00 

20*00 

21*70 

21-19 

** 

Old 

Jalpaiguri 

II 

21*50 

21-60 

21 -50 

21 -50 

21*60 

21 00 

21*50 

»» 

New 

Ditto 

II 

21-00 

21-00 

21 00 

21*00 

21*00 

25*00 

21-00 

e (Medium) Joahoa 

Old .. 

Alipurduar 

" I 

26*00 

26*00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

25-50 

20-75 

23-67 


New 

Ditto 

II 

21*50 I 

21*00 

21*50 

22*00 

21*50 

N.S. | 

22-37 

e (Medium) Nay bazar Old . . 1 

Dhupguri 

II 

NJS. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

1 N.S. 

NJ9. 

»» 

New 

Ditto 

II 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

24*75 

N.S. 


Old 

Jalpaiguri 

II 

24*76 

25 -00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

24*87 

23*00 

NJS. 

*» 

New 

Ditto 

II 

22*87 

23*00 

22*76 

22*75 

22*84 

21*50 

N.S. 

» (Coarse) Bagra 

Old .. 

Dhupguri 

II 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

19*60 

21*12 

»» 

New 

Ditto 

II 

18*50 

19*26 

19*00 

19*00 

18*94 

N.S. 

20-26 

»> 

Old 

Jalpaiguri 

II 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

19*25 

N.S. 

»» 

New 

Ditto 

II 

18*75 

19*25 

19*00 

19*00 

19*00 

23*80 

20*00 

»» 

Old 

Alipurduar M 

II 

23*50 

24*00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

23*75 

20-00 

22 *00 

•i 

New 

Ditto 

II 

20*60 

20-00 

20-60 

21*00 

20*50 

20*00 

21*19 

l(Co *nw)ChowdhMU 

Old 

Dhupguri 

II 

N.8. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

NJ3. 

»» 

New 

Ditto 

II 

19*00 

NJ3. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

19*00 

19*00 

N.S. 

H 

Old 

Jalpaiguri 

II 

19*37 

20-00 

22*12 

20*00 

20*37 

19-85 

N.S. 

•I 

New 1 

Ditto 

•• 

19*37 

20*00 

22*12 

20*00 

20*37 

19-71 

N.S. 











270 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


WMenl* prices JALPftMWRI —txmdd. January is 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Chlleotion weeks ended Saturday, 
dat-^d — 

Monthly 

Last 

month's 

Averaj 

Janut 

1 961 




6 th 

13 th 

20th 

27th 

average. 

average. 





Rs. nP. 

Rs. up 

Rs. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rs. uP. 

Rs. nP 

Bb. 

Dais (split pulses). 











Mung (Ordinary) (U.P.) 

Jalpaiguri 

. . 

Md. 

26 -26 

25*00 

26*00 

26 00 

25-66 

26*70 

28- 

Muaur (Big) (Bibar) 

Ditto 

. . 

M 

23 00 

23 00 

23-00 

23 -00 

23-00 

21*80 

21 

Spices. 











Onion (Big) (Bihar) 

Ditto 

. . 

Md. 

20 00 

1600 

16-00 

17 00 

17*25 

20 00 

11 -1 

Onion (Kaligang) . • 

Ditto 


» 

21 00 

21-00 

20 00 

20-00 

20*60 

20-80 

10 •( 

Dry Chillies (Bihar) 

Ditto 


•* 

106-00 

106-00 

106-00 

106-00 

106-00 

Old 100 0C 
NewlOOOO 

Ns. 

Dry Chillies (Kaliganj) 

Potato and . Vegetables. 

Ditto 


M 

106-00 

106-00 

106-00 

106-00 

106-00 

Old 100 -00 
NowlOO-OO 

9M 

Potato (Deshi) (New) 

Jalpaiguri 

. . 

Md. 

19-00 

10-00 

16-00 

13-00 

15-76 

25-20 

10-5 

Potato (Red Round) (Old) 

Oilseed. 

Ditto 

•• 

»» 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

• 22 • 33 

N.S. 

Mustard (Kazli) 

Dhupguri (P) • 

.. 

Md. 

30-60 

30*00 

31 00 

31 00 

30*62 

30-60 

31 7i 

Mustard seed (bold other than 
yellow). 

Alipurduar (P) 

. . 

M 

31 00 

31 *00 

31 00 

31 00 

31 00 

30 00 

29 2; 

Falakata (P) 

• . 

•» 

N.S. 

30-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

30-00 

30*00 

N.S. 

Milk and Milk Products . 











Milk (Cow) 

Jalpaiguri 

. . 

Md. 

25 00 

26*00 

20*00 

25-00 

23-76 

25 00 

34 5( 


Alipurduar 


M 

26*00 

26 *00 

26 00 

26 -00 

26 00 

26 00 

24 ftfi 

Cow (Milk yield 1} seers daily) 

Samuktala 

.. 

Each 

106*00 

110*00 

110 00 

110*00 

108-75 

100-00* 

. 111S-2* 

Fibre. 










1 

Jute (IndianNorthem-garsat) . , 

Dhupguri (P) 

. . 

Md. 

26-00 

26*00 

25 00 

25*00 

25 *60 

26-20 

49 2 


Balacoba (p) 

. . 

ft 

30-00 

30-00 

30*00 

30-00 

30- 00 

31 *20 

63-2 

Tobacco. 

Falakata (P) 

•• 

ft 

26 60 

25-00 

26-00 

26-00 

25 62 

22*80 

49 2 

Matihan 

Dhupguri 

.. 

Md. 

80-00 

80*00 

80-00 

80-00 

80 00 

86 00 

130 2 


Alipurduar 

• • 

M 

88 00 

88 00 

88 *00 

88-00 

88-00 

85*20 

153 2; 


Falakata 

. . 

• 1 

87-00 

86-00 

90-00 

90-00 

88-25 

86-00 

152*2. 

Jati 

Dhupguri 


• » 

90-00 

90-00 

90-00 

90-00 

90-00 

96-00 

NS 


Alipurduar 



86-00 

84-00 

86-00 

86 00 

86-26 

82*60 


■ • 

Hide and Skin. 

Falakata 

•• 

#» 

86-00 

82 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

84-00 

N.S. 

N.S 

Cow (Wet — salted) 

Alipurduar 

* • 

Per 

piece of 

6 lbe. 

6*00 

6*00 

6*00 

6 00 

6 00 

6 00 

8 Ot 

i 

10 •( 

<> .( 

Buffalo (Wet — salted) 

Ditto 

•*• 

Per 

piece of 
20 lbs. 

8*00 

8-00 

8*00 

8*00 

8-00 

8 00 

Goat (Wet — Salted) 

Miscellaneous. 

Ditto 

• * 

Per 

piece. 

2 00 

2 00 

2-00 

2 00 

2-00 

2 00 


Gur (Bheli) 

Alipurduar 


Md. 

18-00 

20-00 

26-00 

20 -00 

20-76 

1 

Old 20 • 80 
* ew 23*60 

19*0 













SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


271 


afcsftk Price* 


DARJEELING 


January IMS 



Carnal*. 

y (fine) (Kukurjali) 

y (medium) (Kalara) 

y (coarse) (JBaiohi) 

(tine) (Bangnhihari) 
(medium) (Kalam) 

(coarse) (Mixed) 

i .. • • 


Potato and Vegetables. 

• * 

o (table* rod round) 
o (table, white Nainital) 
o Semi (Kalamati) 

0 Seed (Pilamati) 

“ 8 ® 


Name oi Market. 


Matigara 

Naxalbari 

Matigara 

Naxalbari 

Matigara 

Naxalbari 

Siliguri 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Kalimpong 

Darjeeling 

Kalimpong 

Sonada 

Kalimpong 

Darjeeling 

Darjeeling 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Kalimpong 

Ditto 

Darjeeling 

Ditto 


Darjeeling 



'otodMUk Produets. 


. . I Sukhiapokhri 


Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 

month's 

Average oi 

.Ian ii &ry 

6th 

13th 

20th 

27 th 

average. 

average. 

1961." 

R». nP. 

R». nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

H». uP. 

R*. nP. 

11*50 

12*00 

12*00 

12*00 

11 87 

12*18 

12-12 

11*50 

12-00 

12-00 

12-00 

11 *87 

12 45 

12-50 

10 00 

11-00 

11*26 

11*25 

10*87 

11*31 

11*62 

10-60 

11-26 

11-00 

11*26 

11*00 

11 25 

11*76 

»-76 

10* 75 

11-00 

11-00 

10*62 

10-56 

11-19 

10-26 

11 00 

10-75 

11-00 

10 76 

10-60 

11-60 

25 00 

26 00 

23-00 

22*76 

23-93 

26-20 

22*00 

19-02 ' 

19-75 

19-50 

19-76 

10-65 

20-22 

20-31 

17 75 

17 75 

17 60 

17*60 

17*62 

18 60 

19-81 

12-50 

13-00 

13-00 

12*50 

12-75 

12 10 

11*75 

15-00 

15-00 

16-00 

15 00 

16 00 

14-40 

14*62 

75-00 

76-00 

76 - 00 

72*00 

74*26 

76*40 

80-00 

75 00 

75 00 

72-00 

72*00 

73-26 

76*80 

81*76 

7*00 

7-00 

7*00 

600 

6 76 

8-80 

10*00 

9*00 

10 00 

9-00 

8*00 

9 00 

8*80 

12*76 

16 00 

18-00 

18 00 

14-00 

16*50 

22-80 

13*62 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

38 *00 

37-00 

N.S. 

N.H. 

37*60 

26-40 

22*66 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

21*60 

N.S. 

18*00 

18*00 

16*00 

16-00 

17*00 

17*60 

16*50 

27*00 

20*00 

26*00 

25 00 1 

26*76 

24*40 

23*26 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. j 

N.S. 

20 00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

9 00 

N.S. 

17*00 

N.S. 

N.8. 

N.S. 

17*00 

13*60 

23*33 

30 *00 

28*00 

26*00 

24-00 

26*76 

32*20 

34*00 

2-25 

2*26 

2*25 

2*26 

2*25 

« • 

2*22 

1*87 

180*00 

160-00 

160*00 

160*00 

165*00 

180*00 

180*00 












272 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28. 1962 


Whotonlc prices DARJE1UM — concld. January \\ 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month's 

| 





6th 

13th 

20th 

27th 

average. 

■ 





R«. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

B 

Sheep and Goat, 











Pig (Live weight, 1} rads, each) 

Naxalbari 


Pair 

160 00 

160-00 

160-00 

160-00 

157-60 

164-00 

18: 

Milch Cattle, 











Cow (yielding 1 sr. a day) 

Matigara 

- .. 

Each 

125 00 

uo-oo 

105-00 

110-00 

112-60 

83-00 

93 

Buffalo (yielding 2 srs. a day) . . 

Naxalbari 

•• 

M 

220 00 

200 00 

180-00 

100-00 

197-50 

196-00 

201 

Fibre. 











Jute (Loose Qarsat) 

Siliguri 

•• 

Md. 

27* 00 

26-00 

26-00 

26 00 

26*25 

26-80 

53 

Animal Fibre. 











Raw wool (white) (Tibet) 

Kalimpong 


Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

245-00 

245-00 

,N.S. 

NJ 

Raw wool (grey) (Tibet) 

Ditto 

•• 

H 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

KJ 

Fruits. 











Oranges 

Teeata 

•• 

1,000 

36-00 

35-00 

35-00 

37-00 

33-60 

33-60 

2V 

Miscellaneous. 











Chirata 

Sonada 

•• 

Md. 

35 00 

37*00 

40-00 

43-00 

38*75 

39 40 

21* 












SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


273 


MM»* prtcss MALDA January 1MX 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last. 

months’ 

average. 

Average of 

January, 

1961. 

6th 

13th 

20th 

■1 




lis. nl\ 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Its. nP. 

lit. nl\ 

Rs. nP. 

Cereals 










ddy Sahcbkalam (Fine) 

Baliannw abgunj 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14 -00 

13-19 


Ratanpurhat 

" 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

13 50 

13 -42 

jdy Jhulan (Medium) 

IialinTiaw abgouj 


1 3 -25 

13 00 

13 -00 

12 -75 

1 3 *00 

13*18 

12 97 


Ratanpurhot. 


13 50 

12 -75 

13-00 

1300 

13-06 

13-09 

13 19 

Jdy Kulam (Medium) 

Iktlianaw abgnnj 

- 

1300 

12 -50 

12 -75 

12 00 

12-68 

1 3 -50 

12-19 


Ratanpurhat 


1 3 2." 

13 25 

12 -75 

12 -75 

13 00 

13 08 

12-09 

jdy Clienpi (Medium ) 

Rnlinnnv alaranj 

9 9 

12 00 

12-00 

12-00 

12 -25 

1 2 -06 

12 79 

12 31 

»» ■ * 

Ratontmihat 


12 75 

12 50 

12 -50 

12 00 

12 -56 

12-50 

12 02 

idy lihndoi (Coarse) 

Raliiuiowabgnuj 

’ » 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

11 91 


Ratanpurhat 

M 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S 

N.S. 

13 -00 

12 25 

, Milled Mixed (Medium) 

English bn^ar 


22 :>o 

22 -00 

22 -00 

22 00 

22-12 

22 10 

21 -00 

\W ] dnnjpur). 










rley . . 

Rn tan jmrliat 


N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

14 08 

N.S. 

Pulses (whole). 










un .. 

Rutnnpurhnf 

\rd 

15 25 

N.S. 

16 -00 

N.S. 

15-02 

14 69 

N.S. 

d f green Maskalai) 

, * 

I)itto 


1 0 00 

17 25 

17-50 

17 00 

17-06 

IS -50 

15 44 

d (Marl: Ivalokalai) 

1 )itto 


15 25 

10-50 

16*00 

16 -00 

15 93 

17 25 

14*69 

Spices. 




1 






ion (deshi, small) 

Balianuwahgnnj 

Md. 

14-50 

13-00 

11 -50 

11-50 

12 -62 

15-37 

10 *25 

Oilseed . 










Ward (bold other than yellow) 

Ratanpurhat 

Md. 

34-25 

33 -50 

28 -00 

28 00 

30 -93 

33 -20 

27*00 

Eggs. 










5 Egg (ungraded) 

Ratanpurhat 

100 

13 -25 

1 1 -25 

10 94 

10 -94 

11 -59 

% 13*1 

10 19 

Poultry. 










dflivo wt. 1 sr.) 

Ratanpurhat 

Kneh 

2 -50 

2 -50 

2-75 

2-75 

2-62 

2*45 

2*52 

Sheep and Qoat. 










“ (Uve wt. 10 are.) 

Ratanpurhat 

Each 

23 -00 

23-00 

23-00 

23 *00 

23 00 

23 *20 

22 *50 

' 





















274 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


Wholesale prices MALDA — concld. January t 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

Last 

month's 

III / 



6th 

13th 

20 th 

27th 

average. 

average. 

1 



Rs. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Re. 

Fibre . 










Jute (Capsulariea) 

Ratunpurhat 

Md. 

21 -25 

18-26 

17-25 

18-75 

18-87 

21 -24 

N. 

Jute (Olitorious). 

Ditto 

99 

24 00 

24-75 

26-50 

25-25 

25-17 

26-07 

50 

Jute (Mesta) 

Ditto 

99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

26 -00 

24 -00 

25 -00 

N.S. 

NS, 

Miscellaneous. 










Our (Aithi, Chakki) 

English bazar 

Md. 

17 -00 

17-00 

17-00 

17 -00 

17-00 

17-40 

17* 













SUPPLEMENT TO TIIE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


275 


flwitsale prices 


WEST OINAJPUR 


January 1962 





Collection weeks ended Saturday, 




Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 


dated — 


Monthly 

average. 

Lust 

month '■ 

Average of 
January, 







■MM 


tUVUbU ■ 




Oth 

13th 

H 

II 


average. 

1901. 




Hs. up. 

Ha. uP. 

Ha. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Ha. nP. 

Ha. nP. 

Hs. nP. 

Cereals. 










jdy (fine) Darikasal 

Dhankoil Hat 

Md. 

1-00 

12-75 

12-00 

12-00 

12 -ID 

11 75 

11-75 

ddy (fine) Panihati 

Balm-ghat Hat 


11 -00 

11 50 

11-25 

11 25 

11 -31 

11 -00 

11 37 

Jam (Mixed) 

DanuJanm Hut 

,, 

11-00 

11-37 

11-25 

1 1 -00 

11 -10 

11 -00 

11-34 

engft and Kalam 

Dhankoil Hat 


ll-oO 

11 75 

11 -50 

11 -50 

11 -50 

11-37 

10-37 


Islampur Hat 

■ 6 

0 *25 

10 00 

10-00 

10-00 

0 -81 

9-37 

10-87 


Dalkliola Hat 

99 

9 50 

10-00 

10-50 

10-25 

10 00 

0 -37 

1012 

ddy (coarse) 


99 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

n , (fine) Darikasal 

Dhankoil Hat 

99 

21 . 50 

22-00 

22 • 00 

21-00 

21-75 

N-S. 

20-12 

rc (medium) Panihati 

Bulurghul Hat 


21.00 

21 12 

21-00 

20-75 

20 -97 

21 -00 

20-25 

. 

Bal ur^l i at Assembl- 
in'/ Con tie. 


2100 

21 -00 

20 -75 

20-75 

20-87 

21-00 

20 -37 

Jam (Mixod) 

Daindama Hat 

9 9 

21 (Mi 

21 00 

21 -00 

20-75 

20 -01 

21 -25 

20 -50 

imp* and Kalam 

Dhankoil Hat 

99 

21-25 

21 00 

21-00 

20-00 

20 HI 

22 12 

18-09 


Islumpur Hat 

ft 

23 -00 

23 -00 

23 *0<> 

23 -00 

23 -00 

24 -00 

21-02 


Dalkhuln Hat 

•t 

23 00 

23-00 

23-00 

23-00 

23 -00 

24-00 

21-12 

* (coarse) Kalam 

lslumpur Hat 

99 

21 00 

21-00 

21-25 

21-25 

21- 12 

22-00 

19-75 

• * 

<t 

Dalkliola Hat 

9 9 

| 

21-00 

21-00 

21-00 

21-00 

21-00 

22-00 

19-25 

Pulses (whole). 










d (Mark, small) •» 

Dhankoil Hat 

Md. 

15-25 

J6-25 

10-25 

10-75 

10-12 

15-80 

15-12 

Spices. 










Hies (dry, Kaliaganj) 

Dhankoil Hat 

Md. 

125-00 

125-00 

N.S. 

N.S. 

125-00 

111 80 

77 -50 

( doshi, small) 

Ditto 

” 

10-50 

10-75 

10-50 

10-50 

10-50 

15*25 

9 -87 

OH Seeds. 










Hard (Bold other than yellow) 

Dhankoil Hat 

Md. 

35-50 

35 -50 

30 -50 

30-50 

30 -00 

35 -90 

35 -25 


Maharaja Hat 


30*00 

35-50 

30 -00 

30 00 

35 -Hs 

3n *80 

35 -02 

Fibres. 








• • 


Mlndian, Northern Garsat) 
lolitorious) 

B.d.irghut Hat 

Md. 

27-00 

20 -75 

20-50 

25 00 

20-31 

21 90 

51-87 

^itto (Capsularies) 

Damdmna Hat 

.. 

20 • 50 

20-50 

20 • 25 

24- 02 

25-97 

24 ■ 80 

50-87 


Dhankoil Hat 

M 

27-00 

25 -50 

21 -50 

23-50 

25-12 

25 -40 

48 -94 


Maharaja Hat 

99 

27-50 

25-50 

24-00 

23-50 

25-12 

25 -40 

48-94 


Tslampore Hat 

99 

24-00 

23-50 

23-00 

23 -00 

23-37 

24 -12 

47 -87 

i 

Dalkhola Hat 

99 

24-00 

24-50 

22 -00 

22-00 

23-12 

24-12 

48 -50 








276 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


Wholesale prices WEST DINAJPUR — condd. January m 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month’s 

1 



6th 

18th 

20th 

27th 

average. 




Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

1 

Rs. njj 

Bide and skin • 










Cow hide (wet Halted) 

Dhtmlcoil Ilat 

Piece 

11 00 

11-60 

11-60 

13-60 

11-87 

11-45 

Mu 

Buffalo hide (wet salted) 

Ditto 

M 

20-00 

19*00 

16 -60 

17*60 

18 00 

20 -20 

11-75 

Goat skin (wet salted) 

Ditto 

f 9 

2-75 

3-26 

3*26 

4-26 

3-37 

3-76 

3-6J 

Miscellaneous. 



i 

1 






Betel leaves (common 1 

Damdazna Hot 

3,000 

Nos. 

4-00 

4 -00 

4-26 

3-62 

3 -97 

3-00 

•«] 

















SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


277 


X 


VhoteMl* prices COOCH BEHAR January 1962 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 

Unit. 

Collection weeks onded Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month’s 

average. 

Average of 
January 
1961. 

Oth 

13th 

20th 

27th 




Its. nr. 

Kb. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

lis. nP. 

Kb. nP. 

Kh. nlh 

Kb. nP. 

Cereal*. 










addy 

Pundibari 

Md. 

10 *25 

10-75 

11-00 

11-00 

10-75 

9 -42 

13-66 


Mathabhanga 

-- 

10-50 

10-50 

10-60 

10*75 

10*50 

9 *41 

12 10 


Tufanganj 


N.S. 

N.S. 

10*60 

10*60 

10*60 

N.S. 

13-37 

addy (medium), Josua 

Pundibari 


10-12 

10 -50 

10*02 

10-50 

10 43 

10*08 

12-31 


Mathabhanga 

.. 

10-25 

10-25 

10 12 

10-60 

10*28 

9 -10 

11 -04 


Tufanganj 


10 25 

10 60 

10*25 

10*25 

10-31 

9*42 

12-87 

•addy (coarse), Depha 

Pundibari 

.. 

10 00 

10 00 

10 *26 

10-00 

10 (Hi 

8.88 

1 1 -94 


Mathabhanga 

>. 

10 00 

10-00 

9 *50 

10 00 

9-88 

8-87 

11 -55 


Tufanganj 

.. 

10 00 

10 00 

0 75 

10*00 

0 *94 

9-16 

12-44 

lice (fine), (Pakri) 

Couch Bohur 

.. 

22-00 

21-50 

21 50 

21 *02 

21 05 

22 -76 

22 • 76 


Mathabhanga 


21 00 

*21-00 

22 00 

22 -60 

2 1 • 02 

21 00 

22*26 


Dinhata 


N.S. 

N.S. 

23*00 

23*50 

23*25 

N.S. 

23-65 

>vw (medium), (Josua) 

(-ouch Behar 

-• 

20 -75 

20 00 

20 00 

20 25 

20*26 

20-75 

21 -69 


Mathabhanga 

• • 

20 00 

I!) 50 

20 *50 

21 -00 

20-25 

20-37 

21 -37 


Dinhata 

-• 

20-60 

21 00 

21 -00 

20*50 

20*75 

10-75 

22 -10 

;ioe (coarse), (Depha) 

Couch Bohar 

- 

19 00 

IS 50 

IS -50 

18-02 

18 *00 

10 -12 

10- 96 


Mathabhanga 


IS -50 

IS 50 

10 *50 

20 <M) 

10 12 

18-00 

21*53 

. ’ 

Diniiata 

•• 

10-25 

10 -50 

10*75 

10 25 

10*44 

18-75 

19-37 

Dal* (split) 










tang (ordinary) 

Cooch Behar 

Md. 

27 *00 

20 -50 

20 *50 

20 *60 

20 *02 

28-55 

27 -60 

taaur (big) 

Ditto 

-• 

22 -50 

24 00 

24 -00 

24 *00 

23 03 

23-10 

23 -60 

rain (big) 

Ditto 

” 

20-50 

20 00 

21 *00 

20 50 

20 *50 

20 *95 

22 -00 

Spiee*. 










won (dew hi) 

Cooch Behar 

Md. 

17-50 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

17*50 

21*00 

14 -12 

won (Bihar) 

Ditto 

*• 

10 -00 

14 *00 

13 *00 

12 *50 

13-87 

21 -00 

1 i *50 

ty Chillies (Bengal) 

Ditto 

- 

06*00 

00-00 

90 00 

00-00 

91*25 

101 -(H) 

84 *75 

*y Chillies (Bihar) 

Ditto 

■ 

100*00 

06 -00 

95 -00 

97*00 

90-76 

103 00 

89-25 

Oil §§ed . 








t • 


tutard 

Pundibari 

Md. 

32*00 

32-00 

32*00 

N 20-00 

O 32 00 

30*00 

31-60 








N 25*60 


• 


Tufanganj 


31*00 

31-50 

32 00 

N 20-50 

081*50 

31*40 

O 31-00 








N 26* 76 


N 27 00 

<*tard oil 

Cooch Behar 

»P 

100*00 

100*00 

100-00 

104-00 

101-00 

98*60 

95-62 

Fibre. 










(bot*tom) 

Cooch Behar 

Md. 

25*00 

22-00 

23-50 

23*00 

28*37 

25-00 I 

50*00 

,u> (middle) 

Dinhata 

>» 

20-25 

25*00 

25*50 

20 -00 

25-69 

26 -85 1 

52-62 












*• B -~ N=New. 0=-0M. 












27K 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


Wholesale prices COOCH BEHAR — concld. January ig 


Commodity. 

Name of Market. 


Collection weeks ended Saturday, 
dated — 

Monthly 

average. 

Last 

month's 

average. 


0 th 

13th 

20th 

27th 




Ra. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Be. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

R*. i 

Tobacco. 










Matihari (good) 

Cooch Behar 

Md. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

144- 


Dinhata 

»» 

UO-78 

114-78 

121-78 

124-78 

118-03 

117-68 

144 

Matihari (medium) . . 

Cooch Behar 

M 

88-78 

88-78 

90-78 

92-78 

90-28 

84-03 

i:«i- 


Dinhata 

It 

88-78 

91-78 

04-78 

99-78 

93-78 

86-38 

100 

Matihari (coarse) . . • • 

Cooch Behar 

M 

80-78 

80-78 

82-78 

84-78 

X 

Cl 

Cl 

00 

77-63 

1:14 


Dinhata 

»» 

70-78 

73-78 

77-78 

79-78 

75-53 

07*68 

113- 

Joti (All varieties) . . 

Cooch Behar 

ft 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.fc 

Jati (good) 

Dinhata 

99 

144-78 

154-78 

141-78 

139-78 

140-03 

150-78 

2N.S 

Jati (medium ) 

Dinhata 

9 9 

lost -78 

109-78 

104-78 

102-78 

108-78 

111*38 

o>M • 

Jati (ooarao) 

Dinhota 

99 

(17-78 

09-78 

74-78 

74-78 

71-78 

• OK -58 

171 

Potato and Vegetables* 










Potato (Deslu) 

Cooch Behar 

Md. 

10 -00 

14-00 

12-50 

12-00 

13*02 

19-75 

II 

Potato (Bo hut) 

! 

Ditto 

It 

14 no 

13-00 

12-00 

11-50 

12 *7 5 

17*00 

11* 

Hide and Skin. 







• 



Cow (wet and salted) 

Cooch Behar 

Piece 

9-50 

9*50 

9 • 50 

9-00 

9 • 37 

8* 10 

> 

Buffalo (wet and salted) 

Ditto 

*» 

13-50 

13*12 

13-00 

12 50 

13-03 

1 0 -90* 

> IP 

Goat (wot and sal tod) 

Ditto 


3*00 

3-00 

3-00 

3-00 

3-00 

217 


Miscellaneous* 










Gur (Blieli) 

Cooch Behar 

Md. 

10-00 

18-00 

18-00 

19-00 

17-76 

23 * 60 

jn 


N. O. BAY, 

Joint Director of Agricultural Markeuti 
West Bengal. 


WllITICKtV Bit IJLjMNGH, 
Calcutta, the 2nd April, 1902 














SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


279 


WhotoaJa prices of agricultural anil animal husbandry products (Mwp quality) in Calcutta 

during February 1962. 






Gates. 



Monthly 

Average 

Average 

Commodity. 

Unit. 






of 

of 

2nd 

8th 

14th 

23rd 


average. 

January, 

February, 



— 


1962. 

1961. 



Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Rs. aP. 

Rs. nP. 

Us. bP. 

Rs. nP. 

Owf M 









Per Md. 

Rj oe (Fine) Rhaeamanilr . . 

75 Kg. 

46*05 

45 05 

46-05 

46-05 

— 

40*06 

44*06 

22-43 

ltioe (Fine) BifpMl 

M 

48-23 

48 23 

48 23 

48-28 

— 

<8-23 

48 -83 

23-12 

Rice (Medium) Npsgrm 

M 

44 *18 

43 20 

43 20 

43 20 

— 

43 44 

44-18 

21-18 

Rice (Medium) Kalma 

M 

45*23 

43-20 

43 20 

43*30 

— 

♦3-70 

46*88 

22-18 

Rice (Coarse) West Bengal 

M 

40-20 

40-73 

40*73 

40-78 

— 

♦0 60 

40 20 

19*81 

Rioe (Coarne) Orissa 

M 

30 ■ 23 

39*23 

30 -23 

39-23 

— 

30-23 

30-23 

19-00 



5th 

12 th 

19 th 

26th 

— 




Wheat (East Punjab) 

Quintal 

61 -62 

61 -62 

62-06 

62-06 

— 

32-20 

61 -62 

20-31 

•Wheat (Govt. St?ok) 

*» 

37-62 

37*52 

37-62 

37*62 



17-62 

37*52 

37 61 



41 *53 







(Quintal) 

Atta , . 

»» 

41 -03 

41 -53 

41-53 

— 

41 53 

41 53 

41 -63 

Atta (Agmark) 

»* 

41 -50 

41 53 

41 -53 

41 -53 

— 

41 63 

41 -63 

41-63 

Maida 


57*10 

57-10 

57-10 

57.10 

— 

67.10 

67 10 

67.10 

Suji 

•• 

60-28 

GO -28 

60.28 

60.28 

— 

6 ’ -28 

60 28 

60 -28 

Sago (Cochin) (Tapioca 
globules) 

•• 

75-02 

75-02 

75-02 

75-02 

— 

75-02 

76-56 

61-30 

. » 


2nd 

8 th 

lGtb 

23rd 





Maize (Bihar) 


38-86 

38 -86 

41 -00 

41 -GO 

— 

40 22 

40-53 

J6-50 

■tower (U. P.) 


48*24 

49 -58 

48 24 

46 -90 

— 

48-24 

42 -24 

14*87 



| 5 th 

12th 

19th 

26th 

— 




Baisou 

9 » 

03 -60 

53 60 

53-60 

58 -60 

— 

63 60 

53 m 

| 17*00 

Harley 

M 

40*20 

40 20 

40 -87 

40-87 

— 

40 62 

39 79 

14-56 

Pultsg (Whole) 


2nd 

8th 

16th 

23rd 

— 



Per Md. 

Mung (Ordinary) U. P. 

Quintal 

03-93 

56-28 

56 -28 

54-94 

- 

55 10 

60 92 

20 50 

Maeur (Big) Bhupal 

*# 

06 28 

58 96 

68-96 

57*62 

— 

47-70 

54-94 

18 50 

Maeur (Small) West Bengal 

»» 

00-92 

53 • 00 

53*60 

52*26 

— 

52-59 

48 24 


Haam (Big) (Kliari) Bhupgl 

M 

69 *68 

70 02 

70 02 

07 00 

— 

#9 18 

68 34 

21-00 

H*ur (Small) (Khari) West 

» 

61-72 

61*64 

61-04 

60-38 

— . 

41-34 

6p-37 t 

19*50 

Bengal 










Urid (Big) CBIacK) M. P. .. 

»> 

61*72 

61 -64 

61 -64 

67 -02 


60 65 

60 36 

18-62 

Urid (Small) (Black) West 


57-62 

57-62 

57 62 

54-94 

- 

56 96 

65 61 

16*62 

Bengal 

Gram (Big) East Punjab . . 

H 

51 69 

52-26 

52 -26 

49-52 

— 

51 42 

49-94 

19-00 

(Small) West Bengal 


45 56 

45*56 

46 56 

45-56 

— 

45 -56 

43 86 

16 25 

Wr (Big) XJ. P. 

M 

49-58 

49-58 

49-68 

44-22 

- 

48-24 

48 91 

15*95 

L 











^•Contt^^oommodHy- t nb* prin#. tofetroUw) w»tnsw»ltt** npmm* tk» nt« »♦ whtah H b — i wI MtallM «.t ibM* mnph>ilm 









280 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


WholmU prim February 196 


Commodity. 

Unit. 

Dates. 

Monthly 

average. 

Average 

of 

January, 

1962. 

Averse 

ol 

Pebrumy 

1901. 

2nd 

8th 

16th 

23rd 

- 



Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Ra. uP. 

Rs. nP, 

Pabw (Whol#l — conoid. 









Per Md, 

Mbit HI (Gaia) . . 

Quintal 

60-92 

60-92 

50 -92 

49-68 

— 

50*58 

50 -25 

10*00 

Arbar (Big) U. P. 

H 

60 9- 

50 92 

50 92 

49*58 

— 

50 58 

48-67 

lo 12 

Arhar (Small) West Bengal 

»• 

44 22 

44 22 

44 22 

42-88 

— 

43-88 

13 -56 

16*12 

Kheeari (Big) M. P. 

•» 

38-86 

38-80 

38-86 

37 62 

- 

38 *52 

38-19 

11 75 

Khesari (Small) West Bengal 

•» 

36 18 

36*18 

36-18 

34 84 


85-84 

35 51 

10*68 

Kulti (Home Gram) 

a 

40 19 

40 19 

40*19 

40 19 

— 

40 -lit 

39*52 

1 3 -00 

Chora (Barboti) 

M 

107*20 

91 -12 

91*12 

91-12 

— 

95-14 

107 20 

32 -25 

Dal (®plM PuIim) 










Mung (Ordinary) U. P. .. 

Quintal 

68-38 

69 38 

70 02 

67-00 

-- 

68*69 

67*70 

• 

26*25 

Maaur (Big) Bhupal 

H 

60-88 

01 -04 

61 *64 

68-94 

— 

60 65 

58 99 

a 

19-01 

Maeur (Small) West Bengal 


67-62 

67*62 

67-62 

56*28 

— 

57*28 

56 -28 

18 0(J 

Urid (Big Black) M. P. . . 

It 

76-02 

76*02 

76-02 

72-36 

-- 

74 01 

73 74 

21 62 

Urid (Small Blaok) West 
Bengal 

Urid (Big) (White) M. P. . . 

II 

60-68 

69 64 

69 *61 

69 -68 

— 

69 66 

69-01 

20 31 

99 

70-36 

7B 36 

76-36 

75-02 


70 02 

75 69 

23 02 

(Triil (small white) IJ. P. 

•* 

N.8. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

N.S. 

- 

N.S. 

N.S. 

— 

Gram (Big) East Punjab . . 

91 

66*28 

67*62 

67 62 

56 28 

— 

56*95 

55-61 

21-1? 

Matar (Big) U. P. 

91 

46 90 

46 *90 

46-90 

43 65 

— 

44*38 

47 -57. 

18*11 

• 

Matar (Gala) 

99 

62 • 98 

62*98 

62 -98 

62*98 

— 

62 *98 

62-33 


Arhar (Big) U. P. 

91 

64*32 

64*32 

64*32 

61 *72 

- 

63 17 

63-00 

22*2* 

Arhar (Small) West Bengal 

99 

67*62 

67-62 

67 *62 

64*98 

- 

56 96 

55 01 

20 -5* 

Kheeari (Big) M. P. 

91 

44-22 

44 22 

44*22 

42 • 88 

— 

43 21 

43 56 

15 2i 

Kheoari (Small) West Bengal 

91 

41 -60 

41 60 

41*60 

40-19 

— 

41 -23 

40-91 

13 3’ 

8piCM 










Onion (Bombay) 

10 Kg. 

2*01 

2*65 

2*65 

2*66 

— 

2 *41 

2*35 

9*11 

Onion (Deehi) 

•• 

2*01 

2*01 

1*81 

2*14 

- 

1 *90 

2*39 


Garlic 

40 Kg. 

87 00 

37*00 

41 *00 

41 -00 

— 

39 *00 

35 75 

14 0 

Ginger (Gre?n) , 

r» 

20 *00 

20 00 

J 6 *00 

18*00 

— 

19*00 

16-75 

20 O' 

Ginger (Dry) 

Quintal 

190*40 

187*60 

187*60 

187 GO 

— 

188*30 

189 70 

7;, 01 

Tamarind (with seed) 

99 

42-88 

42*88 

42*88 

40 *20 

— 

42*21 

42*88 

10 ol 

Turmeric (Erode) 

60 Kg. 

77*72 

77 -78 

77*78 

77 *78 

— 

77 *76 

76 -71 

40 0 

Turmeric (Madras) 

99 

66*66 

66 *66 

66*66 

65 *66 

— 

65*66 

62 *98 

| 36-4 

Chilliee (Bihar) 

99 

120*60 

133*96 

133*96 

133*96 

— 

130*62 

117*26 

1 85-0 

• 


N. B*»No itippljr. 









SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


281 


prim February INS 


Commodity. 

Unit. 



Dates. 



Monthly 

average. 

Average 

of 

Average 

of 

2nd 

8th 

16th 

m 

• 

January. 

1902. 

February, 

1901. 



Re. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

lie. uP. 

IpItH ooncld. 

Black Pepper 

50 Kg 

206 0u 

187*55 

187-65 

194-00 


193-77 

206 -00 

Per Md. 

185 -00 

Aniseed (Mouri) (Cleaned) 

»* 

60 30 

63-60 

53-60 

55-00 

- 

55-77 

00 30 

66 50 

Aniseed (Mouri) (Undefined) 

»» 

40 20 

40 -20 

40-20 

42-00 

— 

40-65 

40 20 

43 50 

Betelnut (Aleppi) 

99 

808*20 

808-20 

308-20 

308 20 

— 

308-20 

316-67 

197-60 

Betelnut (Penang) (Split) 

99 

335-00 

335-00 

335-00 

335-00 


335-00 

336 00 

222 • 60 

Medium 










Betelnut (Singapore) Medium 

» 9 

335-00 

335-00 

335-00 

335-00 


335 00 

331-65 

218*00 

Betelnut (Sun dried sliced) 

• • 

281-40 

281-40 

281-40 

281-40 

- 

281*40 

284 • 82 

172-60 

Katha (Cule) 

99 

241-20 

241-20 

241-20 

241-20 

— 

241-20 

241-15 

160-00 

Katha (Singapore) 

99 

536-00 

536 00 

530-00 

530-00 

— 

530 00 

633 60 

400-00 

Katha (Janakpur) (Black) 

,, 

482*40 

482 ■ 40 

482-40 

482-40 


482-40 

482-40 

400-00 

Torriander (I)hanin) 

99 

66-28 

50 19 

50-19 

56-28 


52-73 

66 -28 

PorOOKg 

60-00 

(Cleaned). 









(orriander (Dhania) 

M 

29 96 

28-90 

29-96 

33 60 



30-84 

29-46 

40-00 

(Undefined). 









Cinnamon (Darohini) 

1 Kg. 

29-96 

24-48 

24-48 

24-48 



25-85 

29-96 


Cloves (Zanzibar) 

09 

82 10 

82-10 

32-10 

32-10 


32-10 

31-54 

Per T K g 
22-00 

Ajwari (Big) . . . , 

60 Kg. 

45-58 

40.58 

40 53 

45 58 

— 

43-06 

45-68 

Per 60 Kg 
35-00 

Ajwan (Small) 

99 

30-82 

28 13 

28-13 

30-82 

— 

20*47 

30-82 

28-60 

Cumrainneed (£©era) (Cleaned) 

99 

134 00 

120-00 

120 00 

127-30 

— 

124-26 

134 00 

106-00 

CumnuiiHeed (Zeera) (Un- 

*• 

100-50 

100-50 

100-50 

105 00 


101-62 

100-50 

83-50 

cleaned). 










Black Cummin (Kala Zeera) 

n 

68 34 

08 34 

08 34 

70-00 

— 

08-76 

08-34 

71 50 

Methisoed 

99 

46-90 

63-60 

63-60 

63-60 

— 

51-92 

46-90 

45*00 

Myrobalan (West Bengal) 

Quintal 

13 40 

13-40 

13 40 

13 4o 

— 

13-40 

13-40 

6-00 

Cardamom (EJaohi) (Large), 

9 9 

225-12 

225-12 

225*12 

226*12 


225-12 

229- J4 

249-91 

( Kalimpong. 

Cardamom (Elaohi) (Small), 
Mysore. 

1 Kg. 

19-26 

19-26 

19-26 

19-26 

- 

19 26 

21 14 

Per Sear 
21-40 

Potato and Vegetables 

p ot a to (Deahi )(Round) 

10 Kg. 

2-41 

i 

j 

2-41 

2-21 

2 OH 


2 -27 

2-68 

1 

Per Md. 

N,s, 

p otato (Deshityunital) 

99 

2-28 

2-2S 

2-28 

2-28 

— 

2-28 

‘i-06 , 

0-37 

Potato (Behar) (Round) . . 

.. 

2-14 

2-14 

1 -94 

1-81 

— 

i -99 

2-39 

6-37 

Sweet Potato , # 

Quintal 

32 -16 

32 - J 6 

32-16 

32-16 


32 16 

28-14 

7-00 

8 weet Pumpkin 

99 

21-44 

21-44 

26-80 

21*44 


22-78 

21-44 

6-00 

Country Beans 

90 

N.S, 

26-88 

26-85 

26-80 


26-84 

N.S. 

4-76 

Br injal (Round) 

99 

32-16 

32 -16 

32-16 

20-80 

- 

30-82 

37 -51 

7-00 

B Hol(^ong) 

99 

37 51 j 

37 -51 

32-51 

21-44 

— 

32*99 

28 14 

5-50 


K. ■<— MM*r< 









282 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, \%l 


w a - m n m 






Date®. 


i 

Monthly 

Average 

A v ©rate 


Unit. 






of 

of 

Commodity. 





f 

average. 

January, 

February 



2nd 

« 

8th 

16th 

23rd 

4 


1962. 

1901, 



Rs. aP. 

R* »P. 

Rs, nP. 

Ra, nP. 

R* *P. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP, 

Patat* and V«*»taM*» 

~-concld. 






5 



PwKd. 

Bittergourd (Uehhe) 

Quintal 

5.3 ’60 

53-60 

63-60 

63-00 

— 

$3-60 

46-89 

18-00 

Bittergourd (K*»Ih) 

M 

58*96 

58-90 

58-96 

58-96 

— 

08-90 

49-75 

17-00 

Bottlngourd 

M 

26-28 

26*28 

20-28 

26-28 

— 

26-28 

20-07 

6*75 

Kacbu 

»* 

26-80 

26*89 

26-80 

26-80 

— 

$0-80 

26-80 

N.S. 

Radish (Doshi) 

100 

2*60 

2-50 

2-60 

0-37 

— 

3-37 

1 -81 

N.8. 

Green Plantem 

M 

3 00 

3*00 

3 00 

3 00 

- 

3-00 

3 00 

3-00 

Papaya (Orwn) 

»» 

32 16 

32-16 

32- 16 

32- 16 

— 

52-16 

. 27 -98 

7*00 

Green Chili®* (Bihar) 

»» 

80-40 

80-40 

85-70 

85-70 

— 

83-08 

07*00 

20-00 

Cabbage (Local) 

M 

16-08 

16-08 

10 08 

16 08 

— 

1008 

17-42 

3*25 

Cauliflower (Local; 

100 

14-08 

14-00 

20-00 

20-00 

- 

17-00 

22*50 

1200 

P®ah (Local) 

Quintal 

32-16 

32-16 

37-51 

26-80 

— 

32 15 

30 37 

13-00 

Peas (U. P.) 

•• 

N.S, 

85 -.76 

58-90 

37-51 

— 

00*41 

N.S. 

• 

56-00 

• 

French Beans (Bihar) 

M 

N,S, 

67-00 

N.8. 

N.8. 

— 

67-00 

75-04 

18-00 

Tomato (Local) 

» 

21-44 

21 44 

21-44 

26-80 

— 

22-78 

21-44 

6 71 

Carrot (Local) 

•» 

32-16 

32-16 

32 • 16 

26-80 

— 

30-82 

i 

33-49 

8 50 

Spinach 

f# 

26-80 

26-80 

32 16 

20-80 

— 

08-14 j 

24 12 

4*00 

Beetroot (Local) 

t* 

42-88 

4k. 

u 

oo 

Oo 

42-88 

42-88 

— 

42-88 

42-88 

11*25 

Turnip (Local) 


16-08 

16-08 

16-08 

26-08 

— 

*0-08 

| 

16-08 

600 

Fruits (Fresh) 





j i 



! 

U-oo 

5*00 

3 50 

7-00 

6*65 

N-S- 

13*00 

• 



Banana (b^bri) t 

100 

1200 

13 00 

13-00 

13 00 

— 

12-75 


Batiana (Singaiw»re) (Me<iium) 

•a 

6 50 

6*50 

6*50 1 

0*50 

— 

6*50 

0-87* 

Banana (Champa) (Medium) 

a» 

4-50 

4-50 

4-50 

4-50 

— 

4-50 

4 50 

Orange (Nagpur) 

•1 

N.S. 

9-00 

9-00 

9-00 

— 

9*00 

N.& 

Orange (Darjeeling) 

Orange (Assam) 

»* 

** 

7-50 

7-50 

10-00 

10-00 

10-00 

10-00 

10-00 

10-00 

— 

9-37 

9-37 

7*97 

Mozambique (Sw®«t Lime) 

M 

15-00 

1600 

10*00 

16-00 


15*75 

15*50 







SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


283 


< W h »l —il « prtM» 


Ftbniary IMS 


Commodity. 

Unit. 

Dates. 

Monthly 

overage. 

Average 

of 

January. 

1962. 

Average 

of 

February, 

1961. 

2nd 

8th 

16tl» 

23rd 

— 



Ra. nP. 

Rs. n P. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

R*. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Fruits (Frash) — conoid . 









Per Md. 

Pineapple (Kew) 

100 

80*00 

90*00 

90.00 

90-00 

— 

87 05 

82.50 

85-00 

Apple (Kashmir) 

Md. 

146*00 

200-00 

200-00 

200-00 

— 

180-26 

143*75 

125-60 

Apple (Simla) 

M 

146*00 

160 00 

150-00 

N.S. 

— 

148 33 

N.S. 

N.S. 

Guavas 

M 

14-00 

10-00 

10-00 

10-00 

— 

11-00 

9*75 

7-00 

Lime (Sour) 

100 

3*60 

3-60 

3-60 

3 60 

— 

3 60 

3-50 

4.37 

Papaya ( Ripe) 

Md. 

53*05 

53*05 

58-65 

53-65 

— 

53 65 

53-06 

25-00 

Pomegranate (Bed ana) 

Seer 

10-00 

11*00 

11-00 

11*00 

— 

10-75 

10-00 

115-00 

>ooanut (Green) 

100 

20-00 

20-00 

20-00 

20-00 

— 

20-00 

20-60 

20-00 

Fruits (Dry) 


«th 

13th 

20th 

27th 

. 



Per Md 

Umonds (in shell* (Shaman 
No. 1). 

50 Kg. 

435-50 

435-50 

409-00 

469 00 

— 

462-25 

442-20 

200-00 

Umonds (in shell ('hamuu 
No. 2). 

” 

375-20 

375 20 

375-20 

376*20 

— 

876 20 

376 20 

190-00 

U (iumda (without shell) 

(Iran). 


777 00 

777-00 

777-60 

777 60 

— 

777-60 

777 60 

300-00 



2nd 

8th 

10th 

23rd 






socounut (with shell) (Bon- 

100 

34-00 

34 00 

34*00 

34-00 


84 00 

34-00 

28-00 

gal) (Medium) 







% 

3opra (Tiptur) 

60 Kg. 

154*10 

154*00 

154-00 

154 00 

— 

164*02 

163 76 

96 76 

Jopra (Andap3£n) 

99 

09*00 

09*00 

69 00 

66*66 

— 

66-81 

68 60 

58-60 



Oth 

13th 

20th 

27th 

— 

1 



Jroimdnut (Decorticated) 

99 

04*32 

64-32 

64-32 

64-82 

— 

64-32 

04-32 

42 00 

iaisius (Peshawar) 

.. 

301 50 

301 60 

301*50 

301*50 

— 

301*60 

301-50 

130*00 

iaisins (Iran) 

M 

435-50 

435-50 

435*50 

435*60 

— 

436-80 

N.S. 

N.S. 

V&lnut (in (shell) 


120-00 

120*60 

120*60 

120*60 

— 

120 60 

120 60 

90*00 

Vftlnut (Kernel) 

99 

241 20 

241-20 

241*20 

241*20 

— 

241 20 

241 20 

160 00 

Jaakew (Kernel) 


274 • 00 

274-60 

274-60 

274 60 

— 

274*60 

274 GO 

216*60 

iprioot 

99 

241-20 

241-20 

241*20 

241*20 

— 

241*20 

241 20 

160 00 

'aitaebio (Pesta) 

1 Kg. 

1006 

16-05 

16*06 

16*06 

— 

16-06 

10*05 

22*00 

)atee (Bagdad) (Black) 

60 Kg. 

07*00 

67*00 

67-00 

67*00 

— 

07*00 

67-00 

60-00 

>ate« (Basra) (Red) 

• 

•• 

45*50 

45*50 

45*56 

45*66 

— 

45*56 

45*60 

* • 

35-00 

Em. 


5th 

12th 

19th 

26th 





ien Egg (Agmark) (Medium) 

1.000 

183 00 

170*00 

148-00 

166*00 

— 

160-75 

172*00 

167-50 

len Egg (Ungraded) 

»• 

165-00 

150-00 

130*00 

140-00 

— 

146 *25 

101-00 

123*25 

Egg (Doshi) 

»• 

130-00 

120-00 

110*00 

115 00 

— 

118 75 

129-00 

126*26 

>upL Egg (Madras) 

„ 

135-00 

125*00 

116*00 

120-00 

— 

123 -76 

133*00 

138*33 

— 

' 










N. H.—No supply, 















284 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, i%2 





Commodity. 

[Unit. 



Datea. 



Monthly 

average. 

Average 

of 

January 

1962. 

Average 

of 

February 

1961. 

6tb 

m 

19th 

26th 

— 


i 

R». nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 

Ra. nP. 









i 

(Par loti 

Poultry. 




1 





lbs) 

Fowl (Live weight) 

50 Kg. 

170-tM) 

\ 

176-00 

176-00 

175*60 

— 

173.75 

184 00 

233-34 

Chicken (Live weight) 

M 

200 bo 

200-00 

200 -do 

162 -bO 

— 

190*62 

218-00 

255 - 66 

Duok ( Live weight) 

»» 

160-00 

100 00 

165*00 

166-00 

E ■ 

167 50 

168. 00 

161*12 

Pigeon (Live weight) 


260 00 

260-00 

226-00 

1 

225*00 

— 

237-60 

265-00 

800-00 

iksaL 


* 







Per Md. 

Beef (Retail Price) 

Md. 

80-00 

80-00 

80-00 

80-00 

— 

80*00 

80-00 

60-00 

Mutton (Retail Price) 

>i 

140 00 

140-00 

140-00 

140-00 

— 

140.00 

140-00 

120*01 

Qoat meat (Retail Price) 

M 

140*00 

140-00 

160-00 

150-00 

— 

146-00 

148 00 

1 25 • 0< 

Pork (Freeh 1 (Retail Price) 

at 

ioo -bo 

100-00 

100-00 

100-00 

— 

100 00 

100-00 

a 

90 -0( 

Milk and Milk Product*. 


2nd 

8th 

16th 

23rd 





Milk (Cow) 

Md. 

27-00 

46-60 

27-00 

27 00 

— 

31-60 

33-50 

29 -6( 

Milk (Buffalo) 

»• 

37-bO 

47 00 

37-00 

38-00 

— 

39 76 

36-50 

35-21 



6th 

12 th 

19th 

20th 

-- 




Butter (Bihar) (ealted) 

Quintal 

670 -6o 

670-00 

670-00 

670-00 

— 

670 -0D 

660*64 

230*01 



2nd 

8th 

16th 

23rd 





Butter (Bihar) (unbaked) . . 


616-40 

616-40 

616-40 

616-40 


616*40 

616*40 

*•220-01 



6th 

12th 

19th 

2 (1th 

— 




Ghee (ordinary) 

* »» 

670-00 

670-06 

070 -00 

670 00 

— 

670-00 

667-32 

230-01 

Ghee Agmark (Bihar) 

M 

643-20 

643-20 

643*20 

643-20 

— 

643-20 

643-20 

220-01 



2nd 

8th 

16th 

23 rd 





Ghoe Agmark (U. P.) 

»t 

696-80 

696*80 

696*80 

696-80 

— 

696-80 

696*80 

260-0 



6th 

12th 

19th 

26th 

— 




Ghee Agmark (Madras) 

99 

603-00 

603-00 

603-00 

603-00 

— 

603*00 

603-00 

220*0 

Chhana 

Md. 

29 87 

35 60 

33 50 

29-87 

. 

32-68 

80*66 

88-0 

|t|sh. 


< 








ICatfa • ■ - ' 

Quintal 

321 -bo 

294-80 

294-80 

321 -60 

— 

308 -20 

300-16 

103*7 

Rohu 

f) 

321-60 

294-80 

294-80 

321-60 

— 

308 20 

308-84 

110*2 

Hilaa 

99 

227-80 

288-00 

241-20 

227-80 

— 

241-20 

278-72 

91*2 

Ohlngri (Bagda) 

99 

294-80 

321-60 

321*60 

321-60 

— 

314*90 

321-00 

107*5 

Beekti 

99 

321-60 

294-80 

268*00 

294-80 

* ■— 

801 -50 

290*48 

95*0 

TyuTlaik Salmon 

99 

214-40 

241-20 

241-20 

174-20 

— 

217*76 

214-40 

76-2 

Mullet (Bhaftgan) 

99 

227 -80 

268-00 

241*20 

201-00 

— 

234 -50 

251-92 

•92*5 


N. 8.— No supply. 






285 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, T462 


#t 


t 

MuoHDdity. 

Unit. 

Ditaa. 

Monthly 

average. 

Average 

of 

January, 

1902. 

Average 

of 

February, 

1901. 

6th 

12 th 

leth 

26th 

— 



Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

R a . nl\ 

H*. id*. 

Us. nP. 

r lib— concW. 









Per Md. 

ptugasb ( Batter £U»h) 

Quintal 

208 00 

294-80 

208-00 

187-00 

— 

254 00 

264-90 

105-00 

fcoi 

Of 

348 40 

376-20 

376 20 

875 -20 

— 

306*60 

829 -04 

120 00 

M*gur 

•> 

44840 

402 • 00 

402 00 

375 20 

— 

381 90 

343 04 

130 00 

Dry itb. 










Bombay Duhk 

M4, 

92 00 

92-00 

92-00 

92-00 

— 

92 00 

88-40 

80 00 

Bcokti (Big) . . 

»» 

76 00 

76-00 

75-00 

76-00 

— 

76-00 

73-76 

70-00 

Bflokti (Small) 

•» 

06-00 

66 00 

66 00 

66-00 

— 

05-00 

07-00 

— 

Prawn* (with Shell) 

•» 

«5 00 

06 -00 

66-00 

05 -00 

— 

66 00 

00 00 

00 00 

Prawns (without Shell) 

*• 

120 00 

120-00 

120-00 

120-00 

— 

120-00 

112-00 

N.S. 

Sheep ahd Soak 





, 





Goat (10 Beers net weight 

Per listed. 

37 00 

30-00 

36 00 

38-00 



30 75 

37-80 

87-75 

of meat). 










Sheep (10 seers net weifjjhtof 


84 00 

33 no 

33 00 

85 00 

— 

38 76 

84-40 

83 76 

meat). 










IHilcti tllhle. 










Cows (Yriilk yield of 3 seers a 

Per hdad. 

226 00 

’225 00 

226-00 

225 00 

— 

226.00 

225 00 

226-00 

day). 

Cows (iniik yield of 4 seers a 


326 00 

‘826-00 

376-00 

375-00 



360.00 

325-00 

275 00 

day). * 










Cows (iniik yield of 8 seers a 

$9 

426-00 

426-00 

426-00 

425-00 

— 

425.00 

420 00 

375-00 

day). 










Buffalo (milk ueld of 0 Seers 

M 

460-00 

460-00 

460-00 

450 00 

— 

460.00 

450 00 

460-00 

a day). .* 










Buffalo (milk yield of 8 deers 

M 

000 oo 

000-00 

600 00 

600 00 

— 

600.00 

600-00 

600-00 

a day). 



> 

* 

• 





Cattl4 Fodder. 


6th 

13th 

20th 

27th 

— 




Wlteat Bran 

56 Kg. 

13-63 

13 63 

13 26 

13 -jUj 

— 

13 44 

14 74 

818 

Hioe Bran 

r 9 

4-46 

4 45 

4 46 

4 -46j 

— 

4-45 

4 87 

3 00 

Maaur Bhuai (Chuni mixed) 

,, 

14 75 

14 76 

13-26 

13 -25 

— 

14-00 

14-44 

9-43 

Ktaaari Blniai 

$9 

14-76 

14 76 

15 CQ 

15 -60 

— 

16-12 

12-08 

9*25 

Khesari Blnisi (Chuni mixed) 

$9 

16-98 

16 -98 

16 -98 

16-98 

— 

10.98 

15-18 

10 60 

Gram Chuni 

99 

17-72 

17 72 

10-23 

17 72 

— 

17.34 

20-38 

13-12 

hhar Bhusi (Chuni miked) 

99 

19-19 

19 19 

18 47 

18 -47 

-- , 

18.83 

18 74 

12-87 

Chuni . . 

p f 

1919 

19 19 

19-57 

19-57 

— 

19 88 

16 23 

13-60 

p *ddy Straw . . 

Md. 

2-62 

2-6i> 

2 62 

2-62 

— 

2 02 

2-02 

2 43 

Crass (Retail Pride) 

»» 

2- 26 

2-25 

3*26 

2-26 

— 

2 26 

2-25 

2-60 

on Mbs, 


2nd 

nth 

10th 

23rd 





Groundnut (undecorticated) 

Quintal 

83-06 

83*06 

80-88 

so-te 

— 

8171 

79 03 

77-72 

Gfctor 

99 

07-99 

67-66 

60-98 

06-98 

- 

07-40 

08 16 

04-46 

F®***<f (small )' f Bihar) . 

99 

84-73 

86-06 

85 06 

82 38 

— 

84 30 

84 -81 

79-54 

i 

&_/ 

99 

123-24 

126-92 

126-92 

124-68 

— 

124 91 

129 18 

182 96 


N. B.-No supply 












28 G 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA UAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


WlMtaMto prtoM February ig 


Commodity. 


Unit. 

Dates. 

Monthly 

Average 

of 

Average 

of 


2nd 

8th 

16th 

23rd 

— 

average. 

January, 

1862. 

February 

1961. 




Ha. nP. 

R». nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

R« up 

Oil SiidS— conoid. 










Per Md 

Mustard (yellow) (Ctyjrat) 


Quintal 

120-67 

120 57 

123 25 

117 89 

— 

120*66 

118-66 

108-92 

Mustard (yellow) (C.P.) 



117 89 

115 21 

117 89 

112-63 

— 

116-88 

112-06 

100 n 

Rai (U.P.) 



102-48 

101-81 

101-81 

98-40 

— 

101*19 

103-16 

104 90 

Kajli (M. P.) 


ft 

89-13 

100-47 

100-47 

96-45 

— 

99*18 

103 41 

98-63 

Lotni (Kant Punjab) 


• 9 

105 83 

104-49 

105-10 

101-81 

— 

104-32 

107 17 

104-15 

Toria (Eat Puunjab) 


f 9 

84-73 

99-80 

08-80 

91-09 

*-~ 

99-85 

181-81 

96-46 

Mahua (Bibar) 


9 9 

86-40 

80-40 

87-07 

80-40 

— 

86-66 

84-74 

78-70 

Oil. 











Castor 


Quintal 

106-00 

160-00 

166-00 

100 00 

— 

164-60 

163-60 

163-00 

Groundnut 



202-00 

207-00 

210-00 

210-00 

— 

207 26 

$02-50 

212-26 

Linseed (West Bengal) 


M 

200-00 

200 00 

198*00 

194-00 

— 

198-00 

193*00 

190 26 

Til 


H 

256*00 

263 00 

250 -00 

240-00 

— 

251 25 

264 60 

260 00 

Coooanut (Cochin) 


II 

268 00 

264-00 

258-00 

260-00 

— 

267 50 

254 60 

284-76 

Mustard (West, lien gal) 


M 

268-00 

259-00 

262-00 

245 00 

— 

256 00 

205 00 

268 00 

Mustard (Agmark) 


II 

260-00 

260* 00 

262-00 

247-00 

— 

267 25 

267-00 

258-60 

Mahua (West Bengal) 


M 

224 00 

226-00 

227 -00 

228-00 

— 

226-25 

216-76 

218-00 

Oilcaki. 



i 

i 

i 






X 

s 

• 

Castor 


Quintal 

20 79 

I 26*79 

26-79 

26*79 

— 

26-79 

25-45 

24-45 

Groundnut 


„ 

36 60 

84*83 

34 83 

33-49 

— 

84-60 

85-08 

80 81 

Linseed 



42-20 

41-83 

41-53 

41-53 

— 

41 77 

41-84 

36 67 

Til 


9* 

87 61 

40 49 

40-49 

40-49 

— 

89-74 

87 17 

46 55 

Mustard 


9> 

20-79 

26 79 

20 79 

26*79 


26*79 

29 30 

29 31 

Mahua 


•• 

10 72 

10 72 

10-72 

10-72 

— 

10*72 

i 

11 39 

11-72 

Tobacco. 









! 


Matihari (Medium) 


Quintal 

320*00 

330 00 

340-00 

340 00 

— 

332-60 


485*00 

Jati (Medium) 


If 

290-00 

290-00 

296-00 

296-00 

— 

296-00 

290*00 

480*00 

Hiugli (Medium)^ 


• l 

460-00 

480 00 

500-00 

600 00 

— 

486-00 

440-00 

590 75 

Biri Tobacco 


• • 

800-00 

800 00 

800-00 

■ 

— 

800-00 

600 00 

800*00 

Chewing (Khaini) 



268*00 

268-00 

268-00 

263-00 

— 

268*00 

268-00 

170-8* 

Lae. 

Stick Lao (C. P. Palas) 


Quintal 

88-00 

88*00 

88-00 

88 00 


88*00 

91-76 

Per Md- 
109*75 

Stick Lac (Manbhum Phun) 

i ” 

116*00 

116-00 

116*00 

115-00 

— 

115*00 

120*26 

150*00 


N.8.— No supply, 











SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


287 


WhdMlt pilots February 1962 


Commodity. 

Unit. 

Dates. 

Monthly 

average. 

Average 

of 

Average 

Of 

February, 

1901. 

2nd 

8th 

10th 

23 rd 

— 

January, 

1902. 



Es. nP. 

Ks. nr. 

Ks. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

its. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

Ks. nP. 

LftC — conoid. 

• 








Per Md. 

Seed ! ao (Kusmi — No. i) . . 

Quintal 

106 00 

100 00 

1G0-00 

166-00 

— 

166-00 

173-00 

117-00 

Soedlao (Manbhum Baysaki) 


139 • 00 

139 00 

139*00 

139-00 

— 

139-00 

142-50 

188-50 

T. N. Shellac . . 

»» 

145 00 

115 00 

145 00 

145-00 

— 

145-00 

152 00 

179-50 

Fibre. 







e* 

1 

i 


Jute (Behar) (Jungli) 

Quintal 

01 02 

58-04 

04-30 

04-30 

-- 

02-29 

07 57 

102*99 

Jute (Indian Diet.) (Garaat) 
Murshidabad. 

9 9 

(>8-32 

01-04 

67-00 

07 00 

— 

05 -99 

70-33 

100*11 

Jute (Indian Northern) 
(Garwat) Jalpaiguri. 

»* 

71 00 

72-34 

79*04 

79*04 

— 

75 35 

70-02 

109*40 

Jute (Indian Middle) 

(J>iut riot). , 

" 

71-00 

71*00 

73-08 

72*34 

— 

72 00 

72 -67 

109*41 

Jute (ABsam Middle) 

99 

83 00 

84*40 

87-08 

87 02 

— 

85-30 

81 73 

177*50 

Jute (Indian Middle) 

(Northern). 

•f 

83 00 

83*00 

85*74 

85-74 


84-40 

83*39 

170*25 

Jute (Deshi) (Garsat) 

24-Pargauas. 


77 -70 

80-38 

83-00 

83 -or, 


8105 

SI -38 

173*48 

Menta (GarBUt) (Deshi) 

99 

00-08 

07*00 

09*70 

09* 70 

- 

08*37 

72*05 

154-10 

Bnnli 

99 

00*08 

0 1 • 04 

08-32 

08*32 

— 

00-31 

07*05 

101-03 

Sunn-hotu^rfibose) (Benares) 

Md. 

30-00 

30*00 

30 • 00 

30-00 

— 

30 -n0 

3.»-75 

4 8-00 

Sunn-hemp (loose) (green) 

»> 

41-00 

41-00 

41-00 

41*00 

- 

41-00 

40-75 

53-75 

Agmark Sunn-hemp (haled) 
(Benares No. 1). 

400 lbs. 

170-00 

170-00 

170-00 

170*00 


170-00 

172-50 

273 -75 

Agmark Sunn-hemp (baled) 
(green undressed). 


230 -00 

230 (Ml 

230- 00 

230 00 

— 

230-00 

227 50 

290* 00 

Agmark Sunnhemp (baled) 
(green tow) 

99 

220*00 

22U-00 

220-00 

220-00 

— 

220-00 

218-75 

200 00 

Animal Fibre. 










Pig Bristle 

IK*. 

50-00 

50 00 

50-00 

50*00 


50 00 

.>() 00 

48*95 

dors© tail 

99 

20-00 

20-00 

20-00 

20-00 

— 

20 00 

19*00 

9*42 

Horse-mane 

• 

99 

10-00 

10*00 

10 00 

10*00 

— 

16-00 

10*00 

• • 

0*68 

Hide and Skin. 

(wet, salted) 

100 lbs. 

125-00 

125-00 

125-00 

125-00 


125-00 

i 

113-75 

Per 50 Kg. 
109*04 

Buffalo (wet, salted) 

*» 

76-00 

65-00 

65-00 

65-00 

— 

07-50 

70*00 

89-41 

Goat (Average) 

100 

350-00 

350-00 

350*00 

350-00 

— 

350-00 

281-25 

293*76 

Sheep 

• 

pieoes. 

99 

175-00 

200*00 

200*00 

200-00 

— 

193-75 

175-00 

225*00 


N, 8. —No supply, 








288 


gtTMM.KMJiNT TO THE' CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


WhotoMl* prteM 


February 1962 



■ 

Dates. 

Monthly 

Average 

of 

January, 

Average 

of 

Fohruarv, 

Commodity. 






averago. 

4 

mil 

7th 

14th 

21st 3 

28th 



1962. 

1961. 



R». nP. 

He. nP. 

Re. nP. 

Rs. nP 

He. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. ni\ 

MltceNanMM- 










Sugar Cane 

100 

3-50 

3-60 

3 50 

3-60 

*-“■** 

3-50 

4-80 

3-00 



2nd 

8th 

16th 

23rd 

— 




Sugar (Indian) (Medium) . . 

Quintal 

107 • 64 

108-21 

107-87 

107-20 


107-70 

106-61 

112- 12 

Our (Bheli) (U. P.) (Medium) 

»» 

45-56 

46*90 

46-90 

46-23 

— 

46-39 

50*58 

16-37 

a m 


7th 

14th 

21st 

28 th 

— 



Tor Md. 

Gur (Akhi) 

9f 

48-24 

48-24 

46 90 

48-24 

— 

47*90 

51-18 


Dalda (Hydrogenated 

Groundnut oil). 

Haftoi (Hydrogenated 

4 Kg. 

t* 

13-45 

12-24 

13-66 

12-24 

18-66 

12-24 

13-66 

12 24 

— 

13*60 

12-24 

13 25 

12-24 

13-48 

12-10 

Groundnut oil) 

Fat mixture . 

Md. 

82-00 

82-00 

82-00 

82-00 

— 

82-00 

80-80 

74-00 

Betel leaf • • 

1,000 

7-60 

10-00 

11-00 

13 75 

— 

10*56 

*6-20 

9-2;. 

Firewood (Common — old) 

Cart load 

46 00 

46-00 

46-00 

45-00 

— 

46-76 

45-fco 

55 • 75 

Firewood (Common — now) 

of lSMda. 

44-00 

44 00 

44-00 

43-00 

— 

43-75 

43-50 

48 -U0 

Firewood (Split — old) 

r» 

50 00 

50-00 

48-00 

47-00 

— 

48-75 

47-00 

58-50 

Firewood (Split — new) 

»> 

48-00 

48-00 

46-00 

45 00 

— 

46-75 

44-20 

50-00 

Bonomeal 

Metric 

250-00 

260-00 

250-00 

250-00 

— 

260 00 

250-00 

245-00 

Tonne. 








IVr Md 

Flattened Kiee (Cl«ira) 

Quintal 

01-12 

91-12 

91-12 

91-12 

— 

91-12 

91-12 

34-00 

Parched Rico (Muri) 

M 

107-20 

107-20 

107-20 

107*20 

— 

107-20 

107 -W 

• . 37-5" 

• 



6th 

13th 

20th 

27 th 

— 




Chi rata, 

»» 

67-00 

67-00 

66-00 

66-00 

— 

06-60 

64-40 

37-25 


NJS.«=NoeuppIjr. 


Wsirc B8* BOILDINOB, CJJtiOUTTA, 
The 28th March 1962 . 


N. C. HAY, 

Joint Director oj Agricultural Marketing , H est 'Bemjal. 


Printed and published by tbi Superintendent, Government Printing, West .Bengal, 
* ’ F at the West Bengal Government Press, Alipore. 








fteglstm rod No. C207 



(Ealrutta 



(gasrttp 




280 


THU CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


[Part jj 


conditions relating to registration specified in section 13(3) 
of the Act.J (ii) About two years’ experience as House 
Surgeon or in private practice or in public health. 

4. One Assistant Naval Stores Officer, Indian Navy, 

Ministry Of Defenoe. Post temporary but likely to conti- 
nue* and be retained on permanent basis. Post, reserved 
for Scheduled Castes candidate. Applications invited from 
Scheduled Castes candidates* only. Pay* — Ks. 350 — 25—4300 
. 00 500- K.B. -:«)-8Q0. Higher initial pay tq specially 

<iuaiified and experienced candidate. Aget — -30 years and 
below. Qualifications: Essential— (i) Degree in Arts, 
Science, Commerce or Kngineering of a> recognised Univer- 
sity. ( 1 1 > Kxpcnciicc in stores provision and accounting in 
Government service or in private firm of repute. 

5. Two Lecturers kt English, National Defenoe Academy, 
Kharakvasia, Ministry of Defence. Posts temjxirary but 
likely to continue. Pay: — lis. 100 — 400 — 450—. ‘ U) — GOO— -35 
— G70 — E.JJ. 35 — 050. Higher initial pay to specially 
qualified a>nd experienced candidates. Age: — 35 years an<l 
below. Qualifioatlons: Essential— (i) Second Class Master’s 
or equivalent Hc/nours Degree in English of a recognised 
University. ( ii ) About five years’ teaching experience in 
a recognised College or University. 

G One Production Manager, Directorate of Advertising 
and Visual Publicity, Ministry of Information and Broad- 
casting. Post temporary but is expected to be retained 
lor Third Plan period. Post reserved lor Scheduled Castes/ 
Tribes candidate ii such suitable candidate available, other- 
wise, to be treated as unreserved. Pay: — Ks. G50 — 30 — 
H.‘U) .‘15 — IKK). Higher initial pay to specially Qualified and 

experienced candidate. Age: — 10 years and below. Quali- 
fications: Essential— (0 Degree of a recognised University, 
(u) About five years’ experience m a responsible supervi- 
sory capacity in a printing press/ production department of 
an advertising agency / publishing firm / Government organi- 
sation. (in) Practical experience </i quality printing and 
produt turn and work relating to layout, photography and 
art work. 

7. (a) Technical Assistant (Selection Grade) (Animal 
Breeding) and (b) Technical Assistant (Selection Grade) 
(Animal Health). Posts temporal y but likely to continue. 
Posts reserved for Scheduled ( 'as l os/ Tribe# candidates if 
such suitable candidates available, otherwise, to be treated 
as unreserved. Pay:- Its. 325-15 —475 — K. B. -20 — 575. 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidates. Age: — 40 years and below. Qualifications: 
Essential — For post (a)*: (i) Degree or Diploma in Veteri- 
nary Science / Dairy mg or a Degree in Agriculture with 
Animal Husbandry as a special subject of a recognised 
University / Institute or equivalent qualifications. (ii) 
About 3 years’ experience of Technical programmes, plans 
and schemes for animal breeding. For post (b): (i) Degree 
or Diploma in Veterinary Science from a recognised Uni- 
versity / Institute, (ii) About 3 years’ experience of Techni- 
cal programmes, plans and schemes for animal diseases. 

8. One Seitior Scientific Officer, Grade I, Research and 
Development Organisation, Ministry of Defence. Post 
temporaiy but likely to continue and be retained on per- 
manent basis Post reserved lor Scheduled Castes candi- 
date; il no Mich suitable candidate available, it will In* 
treated as unreserved. Pay:— Its. 7(H) — 50 — l ,250. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age: — Preferably above 35 years Qualifications! E886«1tial 

(l) Degree in Medicine of a recognised University. (ii) 
About three years’ post-graduate experience or training in 
Microbiology / Bacteriology and/or Mycology. 

9. One Assistant Professor of Entomology, Agricultural 
College, Himachal Pradesh, Himachal P/adesh Administra- 
tion. Post temporary but likely' to continue beyond third 
J^an period. Other* things being equal, preference will be 
given to Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidates. Payi — 
Ks. 250 -25- -550/25 — 750. Higher initial pay to specially 
qualified and experienced candidate. Age: — 35 years and 
below. Qualifications: Essential — (i) Master’s degree in 
Zoology / Agriculture with specialisation m Entomology, or 
in Entomology, or Associoteship of Indian Agricultural 
Reseat eh Institute in Entomology, (ii) About three years’ 
experience of teaching' and/or research in Agricultural 
Zoology and Entomology. (iii) Working knowledge of 
Hindi. 


10. One Assistant Poultry Development Officer, Anirna 
Husbandry Deportment, Himachal Pradesh # Administratis 

Post temporary but likely to continue bey c/nd the Tlnri 
Plan period. Other things being equal, prelerence vq 
be given to Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidates. Pay... 
Rs. 250—25 — 550/25—750. Higher initial pay to speciaH 
qualified and experienced candidate Age: — 35 year.-, an 
belmv. Qualifications: Essential— (i) Degree or Dipinm 
in Veterinary Science of recognised University / 1 list it ut im 
(n ) Post-graduate training in Poultry Husbandry. (1 , 
About three years’ experience in a recognised I’oultr 
Karin. (iv) Good working knowledge of Hindi. 

11. Three Arohlvlsts (General), National Archives! 
India. Posts temporary but likely to continue indefinite 
Two posts reserved for Scheduled Castes/ Ti ibes candid, 

it no such suitable candidates available, all the posts vu 
be tienlcd as unreserved. Pay: — Rs. 4(H) — 25 — 5lMi- 

500 \i) |U— 30 -800. Higher initial pay to specially <jua| 

tied and experienced candidates. Age: — 30 years an 
below . Qualifications: Essential — (i) At least second ,i af 
Mastei’s oi three year*. Honours Dog me in Modem 1 ruba 
History of a recognised University, (ii) About two y f *m . 
experience ot research or teaching in Modern History ami 
or teaching ol Modern llistmv to Univorsit.y classes, < 
about two yeais’ experience ot work in a Omorjimo 
Record Office. 

12. One Assistant Animal Husbandry Commission! 
(Rinderpest), Indian Council of Agricultural Researd 

Post tempoiary but likely to continue indefinitely. (Min 
things being equal, pieleremv to be given to nicnihfix < 
the Scheduled Castes /Tribes Pay: — Rs. 700- -50; 1 ']! 
flrgber initial pay to specially qualified and exponent* 
candidate. Age: — Between 35 and 15 years. Qualification! 
Essential— ( i ) Dcgiee m Diploma in Veterinary Sucim 
prelerably with post-graduate training in mierobiohuiv jv 
epizmil udogy , or eqmv a l<*nt . (ii) About five year^’ pout 
cal experience ol investigation and control ot amni. 
diseases. 

13. One Technical Superintendent, Delhi Milk Schemi 
Ministry of Food and Agriculture. Post temporal \ in 
likely to continue indefinitely. Other things being equa 
pieferenee will be given to Scheduled Caste^ /Scbciim 
'I'li lies candidates. Pay: — Us 10O — 100 — 450 — .30 — (;()<i 

-G70 — K.B.-—‘l5- 050. Higher initial pay to specially quat 
tied and expc'iieiK’eil Candida t e. Age:- 15 years and l»ehw 
Qualifications: Essential — u) Degree oi Dinloma in T):hm 
mg oi .« recognised Unn ersity / 1 nstitutufiiT Ala ♦*? 
Degree in Chemistry ot (Tienneal Technology with sp*. 
hsed hauling in Dairying Or l>< •grec oi Diploma in Aimn 
Husbandry oi Agnculluic with specialised ti*nm 
Dairying. (n) About three years’ experience in a ^ip 
visoi v capacit y at a large milk processing * plant . 

14. Additional Deputy Producer in the Films Divisioi 

Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Post tempmr 
but likely to continue. Pay:— K'S. 1 ,300— GO— 1 ,G(H) Mir'' 
initial pay to specially qualified :wid experienced ni’» 
date. Age : 50 years and below’ Qualifications: Essenti 

-(i) Degree of a n*« ogmsed University. (ii) A haul H 
years’ experience ol production of motion picture film^ 
a responsible capacity in a reputed organisation hi 
Knowledge of Indian History and Culture, and < nn» 
affairs. 

15 One Joint Director, Educational Methods and Ps 
chology, National Institute of Community Developme 
(Instruction Wing), Dehra Dun, Ministry of Communi 
Development and Co-operation. Post temporary hut lik* 
to continue till the end ot Third Eive-Yenr Plan 
Pay: — Its. 9(H) 50 — 1.2(H). Higher initial pav to spn iri 
qualified ami expel iciiccd candidate. Ag6i — 15 vi'.ir- 1 

below. Qualifications: Essential (n Second Class Mi^t'* 1 
Degree i/I a reeoguised University or it* oqimnlcnt in <’id ! 
oi the subjects of Education, Psychology, Soeiolo'^ a 
Social Work (*n) Research experience in Edu'Mh<>» 
Methods and Psychology relating to adult learning 
About three years* experience in a* responsible eapnriO' 
training work connected W’ith Community Develops 
Programme and/or woi k on teaching in a Univerat' 
academic institute id standing. 

1G. One Joint Director, Communications, Extensi 
Methods and Teohnlques, National Institute of Communi 
Development (Instruction Wing), Dehra Dun, Ministry 
community Development and Co-operation. Post h-im 
rary but likely to Continue till the end of Third Five A *' 
Plan period. The appointment will be on contractual 1 


r^RT it] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


287 


„ ncriod of four ye»rs. Pay: — Rs. ‘XX) — 60—1.200. Higtier 
ual.oav to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 

‘I' Preferably below 45 years for all including Govern- 

ment servants. Qualifications: Essential- (i) Second Class 
Mister’s Octree of a recognised University, or its eqmva- 
; ‘J in either ot the subjects of Sociology, Social Work, 
Pnhiic Administration. Social Anthropology and Economics. 

Field experience in Community Development, work, 
/in) About three years’ experience in a responsible capacity 
i n .*enrch connected with communication in learning/ 
intension methods and techniques/ welfare schemes in a 
Government or semi-Government organisation. 

i- one Assistant Engineer (Electrical), Delhi Trans- 
DO rt Undertaking, Municipal Corporation of Delhi. Tost 
permanent. Other things hemg equal Scheduled < nyte- 
'|,,hes candidate would bo preferred. Pay:— Rs. 

w\_mo .51 hv E. B. — :u) — soo -E. H. — :m — h:^»— 

IlmluM initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
cimiidiite. Age:— 45 years and below. Qualifications: 
Essential— (1) Degree in Electrical Engineering oi recog- 
n ,sod Unix ersitv or equivalent. (ii) About two years 
expel icnce of electrical installations in buildings. 

IS One Port Medical Officer, Kandla Port Proleot, 
Ministry of Transport and Communications. Post, perma- 
nent. Other things being equal, preference will ho given 
to Scheduled Castes /Tribe's candidate Pay:— Rs. U>0~- 

j-. ip) op .500 plus non-practising allowance' c/i Its. lo»> 

i,er month . (Scale of pay is subject to revision in the' 
l,o|it oi Pay Commission’s recommendations.) 1 rivato 
practice ol n*nv kind will not be allowed. Higher initial 
r .my to special!/ qualified and experienced candidate*. Age: 
jo years and below. Qualifications: Essential- ( i) A 
MedicMil qualification included in the' First in* Second 
’srlicc I u h 1 or I’art U oi Third Schedule (other than lieon- 
tuvtc qualifications) to the Indian Medieiil Council Act. 

1 Moldoi s o| * ‘ducat ional c|ualitications included in I art II 
uf Third Schedule should also fulfil the conditions hud 
down in section 1M(M> oi the Act.] (ii) About three years 
professional experience. 


1 i One Deputy Agricultural Marketing Adviser, Direc- 
torate of Marketing agd Inspection, Ministry of Food and 

Agriculture. Post temporary but likely to continue' aide- 
(inilf'lx . Pay:— Its. I, KM -.50—1,400 plus a special pay oi 
Hs 150 per month. Higher initial pay to specially quali- 
fied anil experienced candidate. Age: -50 yearn and below. 
Qualifications: Essential— (i) Degree* in Agriculture or 
Kconotmcs of a recognised University or equivalent (n) 
T«*n \ cars' 1 7 years’ in the case ol persons possessing posl- 
lm admit e Degree' in Agriculture (with special issition in 
\gi icidt ural* Economics) , or Economics] experience ol con- 
duct ;uid guiding research in the field of Agricultural 
Marketing sis evidenced by published papers, (iii) Experi- 
ence ot oi gauming and/or supc'rvising a department deal- 
nip with f'conomic problems 


20. One Public Prosecutor, Special Police Establishment, 
Ministry of Home Affairs. Post permanent and reserved 
tor Scheduled Castes candidate; it no such suitable eandi- 
d.iic ax a-ihihlc, it will he treate'd as unrcsc'i vc*d Pay: — 
Its .V.IO MO S00 E.R -MO — HHO- - 45- 000. Higher initial 
|i;i \ to spooiaih cjualitic'd and experienced candidate*. Age: 

15 yen IN and' 'below. Qualifications: Essential— (i» Degree 
iii Law ot ii recognised University or Bnr-nt-law of recog- 
nised Inn ot Court of U.K. or Eire. (in About seven 
'cars’ standing at the* liar and familiarity with criminal 
hnv and practice. (iii) Must have knowledge* of Bengali. 

Ml One 'Lecturer In Rural Sociology, Extension Educa- 
tion Institute, Nilokheri, Ministry of Food and Agriculture. 

I 1 "'! temporal y hut likely to continue. Post reserved for 
hedulcd Casi.es/Ttihes candidate; it no sucji suitable* 

' .indicia t e available, it may he treated as unreserved. 
P »Y:- Its. 100- 100 — 450 ' .41O-TK10— 45—070 E. IL- 45— 
T»(> ( Revised scale). Higher initial pay to specially quail- 
ed and experienced candidate. AgOj —4.5 years and below 
Qualifications: Essential— di) Second Class Master's nr 
‘‘Tnv.'dcnt Degree in Sociology or Agricultural Economics 
f) l a recognised University; Or Degree in Sociology or 
Agrirulinral Economics of a recognised University, with 
i)ust-|fru<htAto degree in Extension or adequate knowledge 
l, f work in Extension Organisaticm. (ii) About three years’ 
cxnerience of teaching sociology in a recognised institution. 


22 One Director of Study and Research m Public Admi- 
nistration, National institute of Community Development, 
Mussoorie, Ministry of Community Development and Co- 
operation. Post temporary but likely to continue ‘till the 
end of Third Five-Year Plan period. Pay: — 'its. 1,100 — 50 

1 ,400. Higher initial paw to specially qualified and 

experienced candidate. Age: 15 years and below. Quali- 
fications: Eleentlal — (i) Master’s Degree m Public Admi- 
nistration of a recognised Um\ ersitv, or its equivalent. 
<ji) About five years' teaching and repeal eh experience in 
public Administration in n* University m Ac ademic institute 
of same standard. 

2M. One Assistant Professor in English, German and 
French, Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad, Ministry of 
Scientific Research and Cultural Affairs. Post temporary 
|>nt likelv to continue and eventually be made permanent. 
Pay:— -its. 7(H) 40- 1 ,10tU- .50/2— 1 ,250 Higher initial 

pnv to .specially qualified and experienced candidate' Age: 
Preferably not below MO years. Qualifications: Essential 
(i) Second (’lass Master’s Degree in English of a* recog- 
nised J iic i i ah en* Foreign Unix ersitv. <n> Adequate know- 
ledge, preferably a recognised Diploma, in German and/or 
French and fluency in that language (iii) About seven 
years’ experience ot teaching English and German / French 

Corrigendum 

Photographers, Photo Division, Ministry of Information 
and Broadcasting. In partial modification oi item No. 1M 
ol ( ‘omimssion’s advertisement No. 0 ol Mnl Marc h l!Mi2, 
it is notified lor general inlornmtioii that tin* number oi 
posts has increased to three. Twm posts which are reserved 
lor Scheduled ( astes/ Tribes candidates swe permanent. 
Other conditions remain unchanged, (’losing date extend- 
ed to (2 weeks) Dili July BMW ('nndidates who have 
ah end x applied iii response to advertisement. No. 'J which 
appeared on Mid March P.M12 ne®d not apply again. 

PART ‘IP 

APPLICATIONS are invited for undermentioned posts 
from Indian citizens and persons ot Indian origin migrated 
I i*o>n Pakistan with intention ol permanent lx settling in 
India, subjects ot Nepal, Sikkim or State ot Pondicherry 
and persons domiciled m Goa, Diwimn and Dm Particu- 
lars and application forms obtainable fiom Secretary, 
Union Public Service Commission, Post Box No IHG, Now 
Delhi. Request for forms must speedy name ot post and 
'lion Id I ic * accompanied by sell -addressed unstamped enve- 
lope tor each post, at least ol size 0" y 1" indicating thereon 
liana* ol posts tor which tortus are inquired. Closing elate 
for receipt of application with Iceasnrv receipt or crossed 
Indian Postal Order lor Rs 7.50 nP, (I.S7 nP tor Sche- 
duled Castes and Scheduled Tribes) t)a* 2Mrd July 1002 (Gth 
August. 1M2 toi applicants from alnoad) Coniinissicm may 
remit genuinely indigent and bona fide* displaced persons’ 
fee. Candidates ahremd inav apply on plain pnper if IciniiN 
are not axadahh* and deposit fee with local Indian Embassy 
It, icquired candidates must appeal ten- personal interview. 

2. This is also a geneial advertisement. fot reeruitment 
to peiinaueiit :wid teinporarv posts of Rot anists / Plant 
R feeders / Genet iersts / Cytogeneticist n/ Hort ieiilt.uriHts for 

ddlercml M i in states / Depart nif*nts/ R ('.search lnsl it lit ions 
like the I A.R I., C.R R.L, etc., under tin* Government of 
India, in Cent i al S(*rvice, Class I (Senior and Junior 
scales), and Class II. Scum* ol the posts will he reserved 
for Scheduled Castes /Ti ihes candidate's if such suitable 
candidates an* : waitable, otherwise treated unreserved. No 
tint her advertisement tor such posts will he issued in the 
course* oi the next one year, save in e trepUona I < ircuin- 
stances and a panel of name, oi suitable candidates will 
la* maintained fix’ the Commission to meet liitme require- 
ment*. ot Rohrtiists. Plant Breeders, etc If Candida ten 
haxe iitiv preference ten working in any specify institution/ 
Depar tniHit / Union Territory, they may indicate such pre- 
ferences in then applications Candidates should speedy 
tie* categories ot posts for winch they wish to he consi- 
dered Onlv one application need la* submitted. 

Category ‘A’ [General Central Service, Claes I (Senior)]: 

(Ii One Chief Pc/tarto Development Officer, Centra! Potato 
Reseat eh Institute; (2) One Vegetable Specialist, Central 
Vegetable Sub-Station, Katrain, (M) One Seed Touting 
Officer for the Division of Botany, l.A.R I.; and (4) One 
Geneticist and Botanist. Sugaicane Breeding Institute. 




THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


[Part n 


Category [General Central Sarvtoa, Clan I (Junior)] i 

(5) One Botanist, Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack: 
<fl) One Regional Botanist, Central Potato Research 
lnstitirte. 

Category C* (General Central Service, Class II): 

(7) Three Assistant Botanists, Division of Plant Introduc- 
tion 1.A.R.1 ; (H) One Assistant Horticulturist, Horticul- 
ture Division, (9) One Assistant Vegetable 

Specialist, Extension ot C.Y.B.S. ' Rat rain ; (10) One 

Assistant Botanist (Oilseeds), Himachal Pradesh; and 
(1J) One Assistant Agrostologist , Himachal Pradesh. 
Post No. 1 is permanent, but will he filled as a lien vacancy. 
All other posts are temporary hut likely to continue. 
Posts (1), (4), ( 7) , (H>, (0), (10) and (11) reserved for 
Scheduled ( ».ste>/ Scheduled Tribes candidates, d such 
Mil fa hie candidates are available, otherwise treated a& un- 
reserved. Pay : -Category ‘A’ — Rs. 7 (K> — 50 — 1,250; Cata* 
gory ‘B’ — Rs. 100-40 -800—50-950; Category ‘C*— Posts 
(7) vH> and (9) Rs. :150— 25 -5(H)— 50-590— E.B.— M- 
8(Hk— K.B. - 8M0 — ;15 — 900. (10) and (11) — Rs. 250-— 25 

—550 - -25 — 750. Higher initial pay to specially qualified 

and experienced candidates. Age:— 45/40/ .45 years and 

below tor Ca Logon ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘CL respectively (50/45/40 
years and below for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribe* 
candidates) and 45 years in case of displaced persons from 
Pakistan. Relaxable tor Government servants. For others 
age limits will la* strictly adhered to, save in exceptional 
circumstances, and wdl in no case be iclaxed beyond a 
limit of 1 luce years. Qualifications: Essential— (i) Master’s 
degree in Botany or Agricultural Botuny or Agriculture or 
( A togeiiot ies or Horticulture, with specialisation m Plant 
Breeding and Genetics oi recognised University or equiva- 
lent (or) \ssociateship oi I A.R.l. in Agricultural Botany / 
Plant Breeding and Genetics /Cytogenetics/ J Imtioultuie or 
equivalent. (U) About 7/5/2 years (for posts in Categories 
‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C\ inspect i velv ) icsoareh experience in the 
appiopriate field o! Agricultural or Sy s t cm a tic Botany/ 
Plant Breeding and Genetirs/Cy togc»neties/llorl iculture 
Vegetable Breeding relating to potatoes, cereals, millets, 
pulses, oilseeds, tubers, fibre crops, sugarcane, grass nnd 
fodder crops etc., as evidenced by published paper*. 
Qualdicat it/iis rolaxnhlo at Commission’s discretion in ease 
of candidates otherwise well qualified. Desirable- (i) Doc- 
torate based on work in tin* appropriate field ol Agricul- 
tural Botany 'Bo tarn / Agriculture /Plant Breeding and 
Genetics/(\\togcn<*tn s/ Horticulture. (n) Knowledge ot 
French /German (in) Fxporieneo in seed testing work for 
post No. CD 


INDIAN NAVY EXAMINATION, DECEMBER 1962 

THE UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION will lurid 
an examination at Alnnednbiul, Allahabad, Bangalore, 
Bhopal, Bombay, Calcutta, Cuttack, Delhi, Hyderabad, 
Jaipur, .la m mu', Madras, Patiala, Patna, Shillong and 
Trivandrum Munmeiiomg on 5th December 1962. lor selec- 
tion of Special Entrv Cadets lor the Indian Navy. Age 
limits: Candidates must have heen born not earlier than 
2ml January 1911 and not later fhnti 1st January 1940. 
Those age limits can in no cape be relaxed. Qualifications : 
Intermediate or equivalent. Applications from candidates 
who have appeared or intend to appear at Intermediate 
or equivalent examination acceptable provisionally. Applica- 
tion! forms fl’id full particulars obtainable from Secretary, 
Union Public Service Commission. Dlmlpur House. D.TI.Q., 
P.O. New I) *1111-11. by remitting Re. 1.00 by m</ney order 
or on cash pavmenl at the counter. A candidate must 
<*learly stale on^innney order coupon “INDIAN NAVY 
EXAMINATION, DECEMBER 1992” mid also give his 
name and full postal address in block letters. Postal orders 
or cheques or currency notes will not be accepted m lieu 
ot money orders. Application forms and connected papers 
are also obtainable free from the nearest Naval Office. 
ONLY UNM \ RR I ED MALE CANDIDATES CAN APPLY 
FOR ADMl«ION TO THTS EXAMINATION. Completed 
application* must reach the Union Public Service Commis- 
sion by 29th August 1962 (3rd September 1962 in the case 
of candidates residing abroad or in Andaman and Nicobar 
Islands). 


PUBLIC 8ERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 

General Instructions to candidates applying in response to 
advertisements issued by the Commission for rooruit- 
ment to posto of M 8olootlon M . 

(1) Instructions regarding submission of application.^. 

Applications are to be made on the prescribed farm which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal, Ajiderson House (ground floor), 
Abpoiv, (’a leu t t.a-27, personally or on sending a large eelt- 
udiiiosHod envelope with stamps sufficient to cover the 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 
copies ol the prescribed form may apply on any similar 
typed (not handwritten) form showing exactly the word- 
tug mnd spacing of the sample form published in tie 
“Calcutta Gazette” of the 1st September 1965, provided 
the blanks aie filled un in the candidates’ own handwriting. 

(2) Particulars and oortlftoates required. — Candidate* 

should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificattes written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications. 
!rom responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character. 

The Commission accepts only tho age of a candidate a* 
lecorded ill the Matriculation or the Secondary School 
Final / Leaving Certificate. In the case of a female candi- 
date whose age is not recorded in the 'Matriculation or 
School Final Certificate, any of the following evidence ot 
age is accepted hy the Commission: — 

1. A certificate trom the Headmistress ot the school 

which she last attended, showing nor exact age as 
recorded in the school register. t 

2. An affidavit regarding her age sworn by her fathe r 

or mother or some other person in a position to 
know by having been present or beard of her birth 
at the tune of occurrence 

8. A certificate regarding her age, from a Member of 
the Legislature or a gazetted officer, who musi 
have known the candidate and her family, indicat 
mg clearly the evidence on the basis ot which he/ 
she satisfied himself /herself on the |M>mt. 

(J) Fee.- Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 in the iorm of a receipted ebalan 
from a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India 
under the head “XXXVI — Miscellaneous— Kc* ft pt* of the 
Public Service (’em mission. West Bengal”. Monev* order*, 
heques, etc., m lieu of treasury challans are not accepted 
Postal order, however, may be accepted from candidates 
They should be crossed and made payable to “I’lie Sjcit* 
tary, Public Service Commission . West Bengal’’. No appli- 
cation will ho considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application fee. 

Candidates abroad may deposit, their application fee* 
with the High Commissioner of India or the Embassy. « 
the ease may be, and obtain receipts tor the same, which 
will have to be attached to their applications to bo hud 
nutted to the Commission. 

Candidates in Government service should make "urc 
♦►etirre depositing foe that their applications will he forward 
ed by their superior officers. In no case will the fee pan 
with the application be refunded. 

The Commission may remit fee in case ot germin' 
indigent and lion a fide disp fixed person from Pakistan. 

An indigent, displaced person shall, in the first instance 
pay the application fee prescribed for a gazetted 
advertised b\ tin* Commission but if he/ she ia selected fa* 
and appears at the interview, the fee paid by him/her will 
t in refunded afterwards 

Note. - “(i) \ uisplaced person claiming age ccm*o*Rion 

must furnish with his application satisfactory evident 
that he is bona fide displaced person trom Pakistan, e-K 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazette 
officer or a Member of Parliament or State legislature, w 
original. 

(li) A member of the Scheduled Caste or S< hedulj* 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with h ,w ft PP 
cation a certificate iit original from a gazetted officer or 
Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging * 
the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, s»peoifv»ng t 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong 


If T HI 


THE CALCUTTA UAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


289 


tt1 ) A displaced person seeking remission of the applic*- 
\ j 0 e must furnish besides the evidence required under 
[e (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
(ipr or a gazetted officer or » Member of Parliament or 
Legislature to show that he is not in a position to 
the prescribed fee.” 

Address. — Candidates should give their present 
reSS a nd should communicate at once any subsequent 
nge of address. 

3 ) Canvassing. — Any attempt on the part of candidates 
enlist support of their applications through persons of 
uenco or officials of Government will disqualify them 
appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
sons interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
[horn will be disregarded. 

)) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
temporary employment under any Government, a local 
statutory* Body (e.g., Damodar V f alley Corporation), in 
la will he rejected unless they are submitted through 
appointing authority of their posts or service. 

'amlidates serving under Government or a local or 
tutorv Body should submit an advance copy in the pres- 
et form. The application fee should in such cases be 
irliod to the advance copy and not to the original. The 
Mature of such applicants may not however be ccm- 
.r (M t if the original applications do not reach the Com- 
mon's office within a fortnight from the closing date. 

applications in original or advance copies with 
iication fees are received within the closing date, late 
iiratitras may be rejected. 

* A. C. ROY. Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

•ore, the 27th January 1961. 


Advertisement No. 40 

IM.M \TM>NS arc united from Indian citizens for the 
imiii” posts:- 

n One Manager, Vagrants’ Home, under the Vagrancy 
ectorate, West Bengal. Post permanent. Persons 
iug a lien or a conditional lien on a permanent post 
dn* I’Hiid Ifepart men t. West Bengal, who i*re eligible 
appointment to the post b\ promotion are ineligible 
•ipph . Those who have applied in response to Com- 
"inn’s advertisement No. .’toff) ot 1962 lor a tornjMirary 
! u| Manager, Headquarters, u i* the Vagrancy Direr - 
m . West Bengal, need not apply again Their npplicu- 
i" will lie considered •lor this post also. Pay:- 
J.Mi | r, ..V»B (K.B. alter Kth and lOth stages) per 

uli plus house rent allowance as admissible under the 

tiaiihcations: Essential- (i) \ degiee of a recognised 

(n) r l hrcc \ ears' administrative expeiienco ill 
->l service oi ganisat ions or institutions and aptitude for 
*' in eonueel ion with eharitable institutions, (iii) Know- 
«>l stores and accounts work; (iv) Knowledge ol 
-'li and Hindi. Desirable — Capacilx to organise group 
■ Age: — Between 26 and ‘to \cars on the 1st July 

■; die ujiper age. limit being relaxahle for exceptionally 
’d"'(l candidates. 

losin f» date -The 10th July 1062. 

T wenty-two temporary posts (non-gazetted) in the 
toWnate Agricultural Service, Class I (Research), under 
Directorate of Agriculture, West Bengal: 

(>) Research Assistant (Entomology)— 1 post. 

00 Research Assistant (Myoology)— 2 posts. 

Oil) Special Officer (Crop Researoh) — 3 posts. 

Ov) Special Officer (Potatoes) — 5 posts. 

O) Research Assistant (Botany) — 2 posts. 

< v 0 Research Assistant (Horticulture) — 5 posts. 

OrM) Research Assistant (Chemistry)- -4 posts. 

ly: 2/50 — IT) 550 per month phis allowances ae 

SK uile under the existing rules. 




Qualifications: - For posts In Entomology, Myoology, Crop 
Research, Potatoes, Botany and Horticulture Sootions: 

M.Sr., preferably with post-gradu.de training in the spociul 
branch for which recruitment is to he made , Or, A degree 
in Agriculture prel’erabh until post-grailmite experience in 
the particular branch for which recruitment is to be made; 
Or, Associatoship of the Indian Agricultural Research 
Institute in the appropriate branch ot Agricultural Science 
fc/r which recruit merit is to he made For posts in Chemis- 
try Section: M.Sc.. prelerahly with research experience 
and post-graduate training in the special branch lor which 
recruitment is" to he made. Or, Associateship ol the Indian 
Agricultural Research Institute in the appropriate branch 
ot Agricultural Science tor which lecruitmcnt is to he made. 
Age: — for all the posts — Not more than 25 >enrs on the 
1st July 1962, relaxahle for candidates specially well quali- 
fied and experienced. 

Closing date — The nth July 1962. 

to One Supervisor (Estate) (N on-Gazetted) In the Sub- 
ordinate Agricultural Servloe, Class I, under the Directo- 
rate of Dairy Development and Animal Husbandry, West 
Bengal. Rosi permanent. Pay: — Its. 200- 10 400 per 

month plus allowance as admissible under the existing 
orders ol Government. » 

Qualifications: Essential — (i) A degree oi a recognised 
University; <ii) Experience ol work in estate and person- 
nel management and general administration Desirable — 
Experience in security servin'. Age: — Not more than 25 
>ears on the 1st July 1902. relaxahle in the case of candi- 
date's specially well qualified and experienced. 

Closing date— The 7th July 1962. 

t d ) One Instructor on Elementary Principles of Con- 
struction (Non-Gazetted) In the Sooial Workers' Training 
Institute, under the Tribal Welfare Department. Rost 
temporary. Women unsuitable. Pay: — Rs. 150 — / i — 240- 
10 300 (imrcvisod) per month plus usual dearness allow- 

ance and other allowance admissible under tho rules. 

Qualifications: Essential— v i ) L.C.K. of the State Faculty 
of Education or its equivalent; ( i i > Knowledge of Bengali. 
Desirable— Experience in road budding, wafer supply 
housing and minor cunsfiuct ion. Age: -Not more than 30 
years on the 1st July 1962, relaxahle for an otherwise well 
qualified candidate and also lor a person holding a sub- 
stantive appointment under Government 

Closing date — The 14th July 1962. 

Age Concession 

The lippei age limit for all the posts is relaxahle by five 
vears lot Scheduled ( ’jwdes /Tribe** and up to to years for 
displaced persons from Pakistan. 

A candidate who before the loth Vugusf 1917 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or exteimd on account ol 
his/her activities in connection with the country ’s struggle 
lor independence, not being convicted of an offence indica- 
ting moral turpitude shall he entitled to a concession m 
respect of the upper age limit.. The eonei'ssion granted will 
be equal to the exact period ol detention, imprisonment, 
internment or externmeiit suffered up to a maximum of 
lour veais. 

Apply to Secret ur\ with a Treasury Chalan of fts. 5 
under head “XXI Miscellaneous Receipts of Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal" or a crossed Postal 
Order of R.s. 5 payable to “Secretary, Public Service Com- 
mission, W<v«.t Bengal”. Overseas candidates may do|H>Kit 
their application fees wilii the Nigh Commission of India 
or the Indian Emhassv . as the case inav he. Particulars 
and prescribed application forms arc ohtaiuafile ffom tho 
office of the Commission. Amici Min House (ground floor), 
Alipore, < 'alcutta-27, personally or on sending a self- 
addressed large envelope with postage stamp of 35 nP 
and the name ot the post superscribed on the envelope. 
Those w'lio intend to take application forms and/or submit 
tho applications personally shordd do so between 10-15 a.rn. 
and 3-00 p.m. on full working days and between 10-15 ».m. 
and 12-30 p.m. on Saturdays. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commiasion, West Bengal. 

Alipore, the 9th May 1962 


290 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


[Part 


Advertisement No. 41 


APPLICATIONS are invited from Indian citizens for the 
following posts. - 


(a) Three Assistant Engineers (Civil), Public Works 
Department, In the Wert Bengal Engineering Service. 

Posts ti'inpnrni'v. A panel ol suitable candidates will also 
bo prepared for future vacancies. Pay:— Rs. dJ.i — W -4M 
} ,000 iE.B. iiltor 8th and 16th stages) per mc/nth plus 
bouse’ rent allowance where admissible. 


Qualifications: - A degree in Civil Engineering of a recog- 
nised UniversiU 01 any other qualification in Civil Engi- 
neoring exempting a candidate from appearing in Sections 
A and 11 of the Associate Membership Examination of the 
Institution c/1 Engineers (India). Age: — Not more than 
27 years on the 1st August 1962. 

do One Mechanical Assistant Engineer under the Irriga- 
tion and Waterways Directorate in the Wert aengal 
General Service. Post temporary. Pay: — Its. — wn- 

47:,. ^5 — 1 ,(HM> ( E. II. after Hth «»«* 16th stages) per month 
plus special com peiusa lory allowance at 20 per cent, oi the 
basic pay admissible in certain <*ases. 

Qualifications: — A degree in Mechanical Engineering of 
a reeognisod University or any other qualification in 
Mechanical Engineering exempting a candidate from 
appearing in Sectic/ns A and II of the* Associate Membership 
Examination of the Institution of Engineers (India). Agei 
Not more than 27 years on the 1st August 1062. 


(c) One Whoietime Superintendent, District Jail under 
the Home (Jails) Department, West Bengal. Post perma- 
nent. Women unsuitable. Persons having a lien or a 
conditional lien on a permanent post in the Home (Jails) 
Department, West I ten gal, who are eligible ior appoint- 
ment to tho posts oi Superintendent of District .Tails/ 
Deputy Supei intendent of Central -Tail by promotion are 
not eligible to applv. Pay:- — Rs. 100 — 2.>- 460 — .10 600 

per month and rent-free quarters, higher initial pay may 
he granted in deserving coses. 


Qualifications: Essential— (i) A degree of a recognised 
University; <ii> Administrative experience for three years 
in a responsible capacity. Desirable - (i) Diploma in Socio- 
logy, (ii) Experience ol Cottage Industries and in handling 
men. Age: — Ordinarily between 60 and 65 years on the 
1st July 1902. 

Age Concession 


The upper age-limit for all the posts is relaxahlo by five 
years for Scheduled Civst.es/ Tribes and up to 46 years for 
displaced persons from Pakistan. 

A candidate who before I lie 15th August 1917 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his/her activities in connection with the country’s struggle 
for independence, not being convicted ol an offence indica- 
ting moral turpitude shall be chi titled to ti concession in 
respect of the upper age limit. The concession granted will 
be equal to the exact- period ol detention, imprisonment, 
internment or extoi iinient suffered up to a maximum of 
four years. 

Apply to Sect eta rv with a Treasury Chalan of Rs. 5 
under head “XXI — Miscellaneous — Receipts of Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal”, or a crossed Postal 
Order of Rs. 6 payable to ‘‘Secretary. Public Service Com- 
mission, West ■Bengal”. Overseas candidates may deposit 
their application fees with the Higli Commission of Judin 
or the Indian Embassy, as the case may be. Particulars 
and prescribed application forms are obtainable from the* 
office of the Commission, Anderson House (ground floor), 
Alipore^ Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a self- 
addressed large cm elope with postage stamp of .*16 nP. 
and the name of I lie post superscribed on the envelope. 
Those who intend to take application forms and/or submit 
the applications personally should do so between 10-16 a.m. 
and .‘1-00 p.m. cm lull working days and between 10-15 a.m. 
and 12-110 p.m. on Saturdays. 


Closing date— The 14th July 1982. 


A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Alipore, the 11th .lune 1962f. 


Advertisement No. 42 

APPLICATIONS are invited from Indian citizens f ( 
temporary post of Assistant Direotor of Industries (Chi 
oal Technology) under the Directorate of Industries, \ 
Bengal, In the West Bengal General Service, p a . 

Rs. 600 — ‘10 900 per month plus bouse rent allow an,! 
admissible under the rules. Higher initial pay nun 
granted to a candidate, not already in Government vrr 
on the basis of qualifications. 

Qualifications: Essential— (i) A degree in (‘| UM , 
Engineering, Or, An Honours degree in Chemist rv 
Physics and Mathematics as other subjects; (ii) Ack*<| 
experience in production, operation and control in ( h,.,, 
process industries, Or in applied research and developi 
work in the field of Chemical Technology. Desirable 
Experience oi laying out and operating chemical pm 
equipment and maintaining economic commercial p r „ 
lions; (ii) Experience of production organisation. m 
trial chemical statistics and costing; (iii) Exponent i 
the field of heavy chemicals and inorganic chcinic.il 
organic chemicals, oils, fats, soap, paints or plastics; 
Experience as Chemical Technologist, in any Teclmolo 
Institute or Government Department, (v) Knowing 
Bengali — spoken and written. Age: — Ordinarily not 
ing .*10 years on the 1st July 1962, relaxahlo in tho <;is 
candidates specially qualified and experienced. 

The age-limit is relaxahlo by five years fm Sclu- 
Castes /Tribes and up to 16 years for displaced por 
from Pakistan. 

A candidate who before the 15th August 1017 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on accciim 
his/her activities in connection with I he^country’s sin 
lor independence, not being convicted of* an offence in< 
ting moral turpitude shall be entitled to a concessm 
respect of the age limit. The concession giant oil 
be equal to the exact period of detention, imprisonm 
internment or externment suffered up to a maximm] 
tour years. 

Apply to Secretary with a Treasury Chalan of 11 
under head “XXI- Miscellaneous— -Receipts ol Pi 
Service Commission, West Bengal”, or a (Tossed P< 
Order oi Rs. 6 payable to “Secretary, Public Servin' < 
mission, West Bengal”. Overscans candidates niuv rl»*| 
their application fees with the High Commission of 1 
or the Indian Embassy, as the case majrWio* Partin 
and prescribed application forms are obtainable fron 
office of the Commission, Anderson House (ground fl< 
Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending » 
addressed large envelope with postage stamp ol 
and the name of the post superscribed . on the emr 
’Fhose who intend to take application forms aud/oi mi 
the applications personally should do so between 10 T 
and ‘1-00 p.m, cm full working days and between 10 16 
and 12-60 p.m. on Saturdays. 

Closing date— The 17th July 1962. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary. 

Public* Service Commission, West Ik 
Alipore, the 16th .Tune 1962. 


Advertisement No. 43 

APPLICATIONS are invited from Indian citizens foi 
tol lowing posts:— r • 

(a) Three Inspectors of Drugs under the Drugs 
1940, in the West Bengal General 8ervice. Posts te 

rarv for the present but likelv to be made permai 
Women unsuitable. Persons having any financial int 
in the manufacture, import or sale of drugs will n< 
appointed. The selected candidates will have to miE 
declaration to the effect that they have no financial int 
in the manufacture, import and sale of drugs, befnrr 

are appointed to the posts. Pay: Rs. 276 15 -‘W 

660 (E.B. alter 8th and 16th stages) plus a ronra* 
allowance of Rs. 20 per month pins house reift allow 
as admissible under the rules. The question of irra 1 
higher initial pay may be considered in exceptional f* 


Part II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


291 


Qualifications: — Either, (a) A degree in Pharmacy or 
Pharmaceutical Chemistry or a post-graduate degree in 
Chemistry with Pharmaceutics as a special subject ol a 
recognised l Diversity ; Or, (h) A diploma In Pharmaceuti- 
cal Chemistry gi anted by the Pharmaceutical Society of 
Great Britain; Or, (c) A degree m Science ol a recognised 
Cniversdv having one* yea*r\s post-graduate training either 
in a laboratory under (i) a (Government Analyst appointed 
under the Drugs Act, 1910, or (u) a Chemical Examiner, 
or i * i i > a hollow ol the Koval Institute of Chemistry of 
/treat Britain (Branch E), ot (iv) m the Pharmacology 
Department of the School of Tropical Medicine, Calcutta, 
or ol any recognised Aleda a! College Age: — Ordinarily 
not more than Mo years on t lie 1st July 19ti2. relaxable iti 
the ease ol candidates possessing exceptionally high quali- 
ficatums and for (Government servants. 

(h) Ohe Lecturer In Geography in the West Bengal 
Junior Educational Service. Post peimauent. Pay: - 
Its. 27. i — 15- G150 - 20 (k»U per month. Higher initial pay 
up to Ks. .’1)0 may lie gi anted mi the basis ol qualificat ions 
and experience. 


Qualifications: Essential A first or second class Master’** 
degree m (Geography with n degree or diploma in Touching 
ol an Indian Uuiveisitv or equivalent foreign (piuhliciit ions. 
Desirable-— ( i ) \ first class B.T. degree with specialisation 

in Geography in the B.T. examination; (n) 'reaching 
experience in Secondary Schools or in Teachers’ Training 
College. Age: Not more than G15 years on the 1st .Inly 
19(>2. relaxahle m the ease of candidates possessing eseop- 
tionallv high rpialdicat ions and lor pm sons holding substan- 
tive appointment m the Education Department , West 
Bengal. 


(c ) One Lecturer in Textile Engineering at the College 
of Textile Technology, Berhampore, under the Commerce 
and Industries Department, West Bengal. Post temporary. 
Pay: — Ds. 2>0 l*i - 550 (E B. alter 10th stage) per month. 
Higher initial pav up to Ks. M25 ma\ h<* allowed to a 
candidate not already in (Gov ei nmeiit service, on tin* basis 
ol qualifications and experience. 


Qualifications: Esr«ntia|— (i) A diploma. in Electrical or 
Meehana al Engineering from a leeognised University or 
Institution, (n) Adequate practical experience in Industry, 
Text de mM-.lls or Institutions. Desirable Teaching experi- 
(•nc* Age:--.\()t more than do veais on the 1st July 1902, 

iclaxahle lor otherwise well qualified candidates. 


(d) One Technical Officer (Non-Gazetted) in the Direc- 
torate of Textiles ur|der the Food and Supplies Department, 
West Bengal. Post temporary. Pay: — It- 250 -15 -550 
(K.B. all'T loth slagt*) per month ])lus allowance as admis- 
ihle under the (lov ('riniiont orders issued from time to 
time. 


Qualifications: Essential — (i) Higher Seeomlarx or Inter- 
mediate Examination, in Science r/f a recognised Univer- 
s ny/ Board, or equivalent quahfiea>1 ion ; (ii) A degree or 
diploma in Textile Ti*» Inologv ol a recognitor I Technical 
Institution ml her in India or ahioad; (ui) (a) At h*ast 
live years’ experience in the Spinning or Weaving Depart- 
ment of a ( ot ton Mill, or (b) Two y ears’ experience in tho 
• s .i*id departments of a Cotton Mill and throe years’ experi- 
•mce in inspection or testing ol Textiles materials; (iv) 
oiind health, active habit s and abditv to undcitakc hard 
outdoor work; (v) Knowledge of Bengali- w ritten ami 
H*oken. Desirable— Knowledge of the latent Textile control 
A8e: ~ Not n,olv years on the 1st .Iidv 

L i,L ‘ relaxahle lor candidates specially well qualified anil 
experienced. 


° ne Dl8trict Agricultural Marketing Officer (No 
gazetted) in the Subordinate Agricultural Service, Class 
C xecutlve). Post temporary. Pm sons having a lien or 
'mnrhtirmal lien on a permanent post in the Directorate 
Agriculture, West Bengal, who are eligible for appoin 
‘ent to the post b\ promotion are not eligible to appl 
K also ho preparer l for future vacancies. Pay: 

ntiri -*5—5,50 per month plus allowance as admissib 
under the rules. 


Qualifications: Essential \ Master's degree or an 
Honours Degree in Economies or Statistics, or a Degree in 
Commerce or Agricult me. Desirable — (i) Experience of 
Agricultural Markets or ol the Marketing of Agricultural 
Products or of Statistics or Statistical Survo.vs, (ii) A 
degree m Law\ Age: — Ordinarily not mme than 25 years 
on the 1st •! til \ PH>2. relaxable up to Mi) years tor < undi- 
dates with special qiiahticat ion or experience. 


Age Concession 

Tlie age-lmnt tor all the posts is icl.ixuhlc by live years 
tor Scheduled Cast es/ 'I’rihes and up to 15 years tor dis- 
plneed persons tiom Pakistan. 

A eamlulate who hetoie flu* 15th August 1917. wins do- 
lamed. imprisoned, interned, or externed on account of 
his/her activities in connection with the country's st niggle 
for independence, no! being convicted ot an offence indi- 
cating imii ill turpitude, shall hr* entitled to a concession 
in respect ol the age limit. The concession granted will 
he equal to the exact period of del cut mu , imprisonment, 
internment oi ex t eminent sufletcd up to a maximum of 
tour years 

Apply to Secretary with a Treasury Chalan oi Ks. 5.00 
under head “XXI Miscellaneous Receipts of Public 
Scrvne Commission, West Bengal” or a crossed Postal 
Order ol Ks. 5 1)0 pav able to “Secretary, Public Service 
Commission, West Bengn»l”. Overseas candidates may 
deposit their application fees with the High Commission 
of India or tlu* Indian Embassy, a*s the* ease may be. 
Particulars and pi escribed application tonus aio obtainable 
from the office of tlu* Commission, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, peisonally or on sending a 
self -addressed large envelope with postage stamps of 
M5 nP. and file name* ot the post superscribed on the 
envelope Those who intend to take application torms 
and/ oi submit the applications personally, should do so 
between 10-15 a. m. and .‘1-00 p.m on lull working days ami 
between 10-15 a m. and 12-GW) p.m. on Saturdays. 

Closing date The 23rd July 1062. 

A. C. ROY, Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 
Alipore. the 20th June 1902. 


Advertisement No. 44 

A COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION will he held in Calcutta 
in October 1902 lor recruitment ol English Typists in Lite 
West Bengal Secretariat and certain other Government, 
o flier vs. The examination will also In* held at AniuihoI and 
Jnlpuigun only d there an* sufficient number of candidates 
lor these centres. Pay: — Ks. 125-200 plus house rent 
,i*l Iowa nee, ii admissible. 

Qualifications: — (i) Candidates must have passed the 
School Kimil (or equivalent ) Kxauiiiuit ion , (ii) Must have 
ability to type aceu ra«t ely at a speed not less than GW) words 
per minute, (in) Age below 25 years on 1st February 
1902. Temporarv typists m the Secretariat or other offices 
where reel ml merit is made on the reside, of tlu* Typists* 
Recruitment Examination will he eligible il their age on 
1st Febriiarv 1902 does not exceed 25 years by more than 
< hr* period of cnrif inuoiis temporary service. Age limit 
relaxable by five years lor candidates belonging to Sche- 
duled Castrvs/Ti dies and by three y^.ars dor a displaced 
person Irnm Pakelan. Age limit is ulso relaxable in some 
other cases. 

Copies ot detailed notice and application form obtainable 
lid* of cost on and tiom 1th Julv 1902 from the office of 
♦ lie Public Serv u*r* Commission, West Bengal. Anderson 
House (gimind floor), \lipon-. Calcutta-27, pr'isonally or 
on sending a self-addressed large envelope («i/>* 10"x5*> 
with postagr* stamps worth 25 nay** paise affixed thereon. 
Those who intend to take application fr/nn. r*tc., and/or 
submit Hie applications personally’, should do so between 
10-15 a.m. and GL00 p.m. on lull working days and between 
10-15 a.m. and 12-GK) p.m. on SuturdayB. Application! 
(with two passport aize photographs) to be submitted on 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


[Part II 


292 


the pi escribed form with a Crossed Postal Order of Rs. 5.00 
payable to “the Secretary, Public Service Commission. 
West Bengal”, or a. Treasury Chilian for Us. 5.00 under 
head “XXI - Miscellaneous — Receipts of tlie Public Service 
Commission. West Bengal”. The Commission remit 

tees of genuinely indigent and bona fide displaced persons. 
A candidate seeking remission of fees will, however, be 
loquired to pay the prescribed fee along with the applica- 
tion. If In* appears at the examination and satisfies the 
Commission that he is a hoiia fide displaced person in 
indigent eireumstaneos who can ill afford to pay the fee. 
the amount paid slusll he refunded to him 

Last date of filing applications — 28th July 1962. 

A. C. ROY, .Secretary, 

Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 

Allpore, t lie 19th .lime 1962. 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 

Insolvency Case No. 11 of 1962 

Sural Kumar Mukherjee of 21/1 Narayan Roy Road. 
Barisha, police-station llehala. Debtor- Applicant . 

To Hi lulus tli a n Trading Corporation of 21 Prineep Street, 
Calcutta- 14, and 4 others, Creditors. 

ON the 11th day of June 1962 it was ordered that the 
matter ot the petition of the applicant he heard on the 
16th day ot July 1962 and that the said applicant to attend 
to be examined by this court on that date. 

S. SENCUPTA, District Judge, 
Alipore, the 12th dune 1962. 

(655—1) 


OFFICE OF THE DISTRICT BOARD, MIDNAPORE 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 


APPLICATIONS are hereby invited for the post of District 
Engiueei midcr Midnapur District Board. 

Qualification: The applicant, must he qualified m suny 

one ol the manners preset i hod in rule 2 of the Rules tor 
the Appointment of District Engineers, etc., trained under 
Bengal laical Self-Gc/vernment, Act; preference will he 
given to the <amlidntes Mho held a degree of Civil Engi- 
neering ol an Indian ruiversity and has experience of the 
post ot a District Engineer under any District Board. 

Pay: Seale of pay ol the post is Rs. 400 — 20—500 and 
allowance of Rs. 56 m all, is at present, attached to the 
settle ot pay Higher initial pay will be allowed to the 
experienced and desemng candidate. 

Application must he submitted in sealed and registered 
cover addressed to the undersigned and superscribed 
“Application tor appointment of District Engineer”, and 
must contain the following particulars: (I) Age, (2) Hoim# 
district. i4) Present and permanent addresses, (4) Dot-Mis 
ot qualifications and experience, (5) Reasons of leaving the 
present employment , (6) Short statements about previous 
employments and reasons for leaving them, and (7) Names 
with add i esses ol l wo respectable persons to whom refer- 
ence can be made The* application must he accompanied 
by an original cor Plica to from the present immediate 
superior about conduct and work, and also all other ticees- 
sarv original cei tifientcs together with n suitable envelope 
addressed and sufficiently stamped for registration in which 
tin* said certificates of unsuccessful candidates will he 
let limed. 

The selected candidate shall ha\e to remain on probation 
for one >eat. 

Application must reach the undersigned bv 18th July 
1962. 

M. MAHATA, Chairman, 
District Board, Midnapore. 

(C1D — :4) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
HOOGHLY 

Insolvency Case No. 5 of 1961 

NOTICE is heioby gi\en that the firm Chnkraverty K.undn 
A Co I’epi esented by its partners Shri Dprndra Nath 
Kundu. Shri Kshitindra Nath Chakrahortv, Shri Bholanath 
Bvsak. Shri Ritsik Chandra Guhn Thakur, all of Radha 
Gobinda Nagar Battalia, village Konnagar, police-station 
Cttarpara. district Hooghly. Mas adjudged insolvent on 6th 
June 1962. and tlm«t it has been directed to apply for final 
discharge alter six months from the date of adjudication. 

A. SYAM, District Judge. 

r l lie 15th June 1962. 

<642-1) 


insolvency Case No. 25 of 1962 

Ram Nttra in Shaw, of 8/2 Gurudas Dutta Garden Lane, 
police-station Alanicktola, Creditor-Applicant 

To E. Hyrapeit of 65 Traffic Quarters, E. Railway, Sealdah, 
Debtor. 

ON the 8th day of June 1962 it was ordered that the 
matter ol the petition ot the applicant be heard on the 
14th dav ol July 1962 and that the said applicant to attend 
to he examined hy this Court on that date. 

S. K. GHOSH, Sub-Judge 

Alipore, the 11th June 1962. 

(050 — 1) 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 

Insolvency Case No, 26 ‘of 1962 

Han Bu\ Singh ot 58/1 S. N. Banerjee R'nad, Calcutta 
Creditor- Applicant • *■ • 

To fl) Mr. R. L. Eraneis, (2) Mis. M. P. Eraneis of 10/2 
Brace Bridge Hoad, jioliee-st.ation Garden Reach, 
Debtoi s 

ON the 8th day of June 1962 it Mas ordered that the 
mailer of tin* petition ol the applicant hi* heard on the 
14th day ot July 1962 and that the said applicant to attend 
to be examined by this Court 011 that date. 

S. K. GHOSH, Sub-Judge. 

Alipore, the llth June 1962. 


<651 - D 


IN THE 4fH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 

Insolvency Case No. 27 of 1982 

Kasi Prosad Agurwalla of 9 Jagmohan Mullick Lane, 
Calcutta, Creditor- Applicant. « 

To Albert Whitley David, residing at Calcutta Port Com- 
missioner's Quarters No. 6, Garden Reach Road, 
Kbidderpore, Oalcutta-24, Debtor. 

ON the Kith day ot June 1962 it wa6 ordered that the 
matter of the petition of the applicant he heard on the 
26th day of July 1962 and that the strtd applicant to 
attend to be examined hy this court on that date*. 


Alipore. the T9th June 1962. 


ILLEGIBLE, 

Sub- Judge, 24-Pargatias. 

(699—Q 


Part II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


293 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE 8US-JUOOE OF 
S4-PARGANAS 

Insolvency Case No. 28 of 1862 

Kashi Prosad Agarwallw, residing at No. 9, Jagmohan 
Mullick Lane, Calcutta, Creditor- Applicant. 

To George B. Gracious, at present residing at No. 6D, 
Md. Burial Ground, Kliidderpore, Calcutta-23, Debtor. 

ON the loth day of June 1962 it. wa* ordered that the 
matter of the petition of the applicant be heard on the 
20th day of July 1962 and that the s»id applicant to 
attend to be examined by this court oil that date. 

ILLEGIBLE, 
Sub-Judge, 24-Parganas. 

Alij>ore, the 19th June 1962. 

(700 — 1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE MUNSIF, JAMSHEDPUR 
Money Suit No. 178 of i960 

I) S. Murty, son of D. Krishna Chandram, by caste Hindu, 
by occupation business, proprietor of Messrs. Murty 
Sons, carried on at Kalimati Road, police-station 
Sukchi, Town Jamshedpur, district Singhbhum — 
Plaintiff. 

versus 

Sardar Sital Singh, proprietor of Messrs. Bharat Transport 
Agency, son of not known to the plaintiff, by creed 
Sikh, by occupation business, at present, carrying on 
business at 6 Mechuabazar Street, ( ahutta. 

WHEREAS the abovenamed plaintiff has instituted suit 
against you (the defendant ) for recovery *>t Rs. 2,277.26 nP. 
tm the pric t e of consignment, you are hereby summoned 
to appea*' in this court in person or by pleader duly 
instructed and able to answer all material questions relat- 
ing to this suit on the 16th July 1962 at 10-60 a.m. The 
da to fixed lor your appearance is appointed for the final 
disposal of this suit and you must be prepared to produce 
on that day all evidence and documents upon which you 
intend to reply in support of vour defence. 

Take notice that in the event of vour default on the said 
date the suit will be heard and determined in your absence. 

Given under my hand and seal of the court this 21et day 
of September 1961. 

K. N. PRASAD, Munsif. 

(654 — 1 ) 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUBORDINATE JUDGE, 
A8ANS0L 

Insolvency Case No. 20 of 1962 

Petitioner : Nabi Hossain, son of late Rouftli Khan, of 
Santa, police-station Hirapur, district Burdwan. 

IT is hereby notified that the abovenamed petitioner has 
applied to be adjudged an insolvent. The Court has 
k&btered that application and fixed 24th July 1962 for 
hearing thereof. 

N. C. DATTA, Sub- Judge. 

(652 — 1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUBORDINATE JUDGE, 
ASAN80L 

Insolvency Case No. 19 of 1962 

Petitioner: Pareshnun of Suutmlangal, police-station Hira- 
pur, district Burdwan, working as Senior B (\, Hand 
Department 116 Du pi ice Plan, S.C.O.U. ^Melting 
Shop), T.N. 1566, Burnpur Works. 

IT is hereby notified that the abovenamed petitioner lias 
applied to lie adjudged an insolvent. The Court has 
registered that application anti fixed 21st July 1962 tor 
the hearing thereof. 

N. C. DATTA, Sub-Judge. 

(656—1) 


BARA8AT GOVERNMENT COLLEQE 


Barasat, 24-Parganaa 

AFFILIATED m the Pre-University Course ami Three 
Year Degree Course in Arts (Puss and Honours) and 
Science (Pass) and B.A. (Pass) Course of the Calcutta 
University open to both hoys and girls. There will be no 
admission to the Third Year B.A. class. 8ubJeott taught t 
Pre-university Course— English, Bengali, Elements of 
Civics and Economics, Sanskrit, Ivogic, History or Mathe- 
matics, Physics, Chemistry, Biology; Three Year Dagraa 
Course — English, Bengali (Vernacular) Elective English, 
Additional Vernacular (Bengali), Economics, Political 
Science, Philosophy, Bengali as Second Language or Sans- 
krit, History or Mathematics. Physics and Chemistry. 
Provision has been made tor teaching Honours in History 
and Economics from the academic session 1961-62. There 
is likelihood ol introduction of Honours m English from 
the coming academic session. Fnll-froe studentships, half- 
free studentships iwul other concessions are awarded to 
meritorious and poor students. Applications for admission 
to the Pre- University and Three Year Degree Courses are 
to he made within two weeks after the publication of 
results of the School Final, Higher Secondary and Pre- 
University Examinations, 1962. For application forms and 
prospectus, a*pply to the Principal either personally or send 
necessary postage stamps. 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA, 

IN INSOLVENCY 

Notice ef Adjudication Order 
No. 11 of 1992 

Re.: Dc hah rat a Khantagir, at present residing at 

No. 20/15. S. N. Roy Road in the suburb of the town 
of Calcutta, and formerly residing at No. 58, Rusaa 
Koad East 1st Lane in Calcutta aforesaid, anil work- 
ing lor gain in the Calcutta Tramwifys Oo. Ltd at 
No. P-4, Mission Row Extension in the town of Cal- 
cutta, Ex parte the debtor in person. 

ON t)io flth (lay ol Juno 1962, an ordor was made by the 
Hijtn Court at Calcutta Jn its Insolvency Jurisdiction 
adjudging the ahovenarned n>n Insolvent. 

Note— All debts due to the estate should be paid to me. 

M. M. CHAKUABARTY, 
Official Assignee. 

6 Council House Street. 
Dated this 21st day of June 1962. 


294 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


[Part ii 


COMPANY PETITION No. OP 1968 

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
Ordinary Original Civil Jurisdiction 

In Re.: The Companies Act, 1966 
And 

In Re.: Section 4. ‘19 of the said Act 
And 

In Re.: The Central Radio Service Private Limited 
Promotho Nath Bose, Petitioner 
NOTICE OF PETITION 

NOTICE is hereby given that a petition Tor the winding 
up ot the abovenatned Company by the High Court at 
Calcutta wa* on the 24th May 1962 presented to the said 
Hon’ble Court by Shri Promotho Nath Bose of No. 1/lA, 
Hcramba Das Lane, Calcutta-#, a Creditor of the said 
Company, and that the said petition being admitted on the 
4th .Tune 1962 is directed to he heard bofore the said 
Hon’ble Court on the 23rd day of July 1962. 

Any creditor, contributory or other person desirous of 
supporting or opposing the making of an order on the said 
petition should send to the petitioner or hie Attorney 
notice of his intention signed by him or his Advocate or 
Attorney with hie name and address, so as to reach the 
petitioner or his Attorney not later than five days before 
the date fixed for the hearing of the petition, and appear 
at the hearing for the purpose in person or by his Advocate 
or Attorney. A copy of the petition will be furnished by 
the undersigned to any creditor or contributory on payment 
of prescribed charges for the same. Any Affidavit intended 
to be used in opposition to the petition should be filed in 
Court, and a copy served on the petitioner or his Attorney 
not later than five days before the day fixed for the 
hearing. 

Dated the 26th day of June 1962. 

12/1 Old Post Office Street, 

Calcutta-1. 

AMARENDRA NATH BOSE, 
Petitioner’s Attorney. 

, (648—11 


AMITABHA RAY, LL.B., intends to 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


be enrolled as an 
(589—4) 


SHRI DHIRENDRA NATH BATABYAL, LL.B., intend* 
to be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 611 — 4 ) 


SHRI P1JIJSH KANTI ROY, LL.B., intends to be enroll, 
ed as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 612 — 4 ) 


SHRI BHITPATI RANJAN SENGUPTA, intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

( 613 — 4 ) 


SHRI BIMALA KANTA DE SARKAR, LL.B., intends to 
bo enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court, 

(614 — 4) 


SHRI ANIL KUMAR MUKHERJEE, LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(615 — 4) 


SHRI SWADESH RANJAN BANERJEE, LL.B., intends 
to be enrolled as an Advocate of Calcutta High Court. 

(616 — 4) 


BIRES M I'KHOP ADH Y AY , LL.B., intends to be enroll*] 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

( 621—4 > 


MANOTOSTIDEB MUKHOPADHYAY, LL.B.^ intends tc 
be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High* .Court. 

(622—4) 


DINDAYAL HARALALKA, LL.B*, intends bo be* enroll 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(623—4 


NDtAD KUMAR BASU, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(590 — 4) 


BIMALANANDA MAZUMDAR, M.A., LL.B., intends t 
be enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(636-4 


ATMA RAM 8ARAOGI, LL.B., intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(599 — 4) 


NRIPENDRANATH BASU, LL.B., intends to be enrolle 
as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. (698—4 


APURBA KUMAR MALLICK, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 

(600—4) 


T, BISVA RANJAN BANNERJEE, eon of Shri Raman 
median Banerjee, of 133 Upper Circular Road, Calcutta 
have applied to be admitted as an Advocate in the roll c 
the Bar Council of West Bengal. , 


8HRI BAMDEB DAS, LL.B,, intends to be enrolled as 
an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


, SHIVA CHAEAN BHARADWAJ, son of Shri Santla 
f “Narayani”, 27 Brabourne Road, Calcutta^, 
pplied to be admitted as an Advocate in the roll of 
tar Ccmncil of West Bengal. (638—1 


( 606 — 4 ) 


Pakt II] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


295 


a 


t MANOEANJAN SEN, son of S&tish Chandra Sen, of 9 
ifadh u Sudan Chatterjee Lane, Calcutta-2, hay© applied to 
Ka admitted arf an Advocate in the roll of the Bar Council 

•< w “* ,643-1, 


1, PARAMANANDA BONDOPADHYAY. eon of late 
Dr. Jnendra Mohan Banerjee, of 50 Raja Basanta Roy 
Road, Calcutta-29, have applied to be admitted as an 
Advocate in the roll cA the Bar Council of West Bengal. 

(677 — l) 


t SUM ATI MOHAN MAZUMDAR, son of late Aparna 
dharan Maeumdar, of 58A Alimuddin Street, Calcutta-16, 
have applied to be admitted a* an Advocate in the roll of 
the Bar Council of West Bengal. 

tn (644—1) 


I S YAM ADAS GANGOPADHYAY, son of Jatindranath 
Gangopadhyay, of 36A Roybahadur Road. Calcutta-34, have 
applied to be admitted as an Advocate in the roll of the 
Bar Council of West Bengal. 

P (645—1) 


1, NARKS CHANDRA CHATTOPADHYAY, son of late 
Baht Chandra Chattopadhyay, of 35B Ghoso Lane, Cal- 
cutta-6, have applied to he admitted ns an Advocate in the 
roll of the Bar Council of West Bengal. 

(646—1) 


1, RINA GUPTA (MISS), daughter of Shri Sanat Kumar 
Gupta, of 63 Shyamnagar Road, Calcutta, have applied to 
be admitted as an Advocate in the roll of the Bar Council 
of West Bengal. 

(678—1) 


I, MUKUL BANE1UKK (MISS), daughter of Shn Bankim 
Chandra Banerjee, of 107H/6 South Park, Jamshedpur 
(Singhbhuni ) , have applied to he admitted as an Advocate 
in the roll of the Bar Council of West Bengal. 

(079—1) 


I, APARNA MITRA (MISS), daughter of Shri Anil 
Kumar Mitra, of 24 Theatre Road, Calcutta, have applied 
to be admitted us an Advocate in the roll of the Bar 
Council of West Bengal. 

(080-1) 


1. HARA PRASAD CHATTERJEE, son ot late Ram Gopal 
Cliutterjee, of 67/42 Strand Road, Calcutta-6, have applied 
to be admitted as an Advocate in the roll of the Bar 
Council of West Bengal. 

(658 — 1 ) 


1, SISIR KUMAR DAS. son of late Tarini Charan Das, of 
5/B Raiani Sen Road, Calcutta-26, lunvo applied to he 
admitted as an Advocate in the roll of the Bar Council of 
West Bengal. 

(681—1) 


1, RAB1NDRA NATH DATTA, son of Shri Devon dn* 
Nath Datta, rtf 28/6 Gariahat Hoad, Calcutta-19, have 
applied to be admitted as an Advocate m the roll of the 
Bar Council of West Bengal. 

(659—1) 


1. SHRI AMAH NATH DHOLE, son of Shri Kanni Lall 
Dhole, of 29 Nitnehand Maitra Street, Colon tt a -35, have 
applied to he* admitted as an Advocate in the roll of the 
Bar Council of West Bengal. 

(682—1) 


I. AJIT KUMAlt RAY, son of lwte Durga Sundar Ray, of 
28/32 Station Road, Calcutta-31, have applied to be admit- 
ted as an Advocate in the roll of the Bar Council of West 
Bengal. 

(670—1) 


I ; SHRI DKBABRATA NANDI, son of Shri Sat.vabrata 
Nandi, of 30 Nitnehand Maitra Street, Calcutta-35, have 
applied to he admitted as an Advocate in the roll of the 
Bar Council of West Bengal. 

(683 — 1) 


I, SURENDRA NATH GHOSH, son of late Adhar Chandra 
Ghosh, of 0A - Jadu Mitra* Lane, Calcutta-4, have applied 
to be ac&nitted as an Advocate in the roll of the Bar 
Council of West Bengal. 

(671—1) 


I, HEMENDRA CHANDRA CHAKRABARTY, son of late 
Debendra Chandra Chakraborty, of 28/9 Station Road, 
Calcutta-31, have applied to be admitted as an Advocate 
m the roll of the Bar Council of West Bengal. 

(672—1) 


I, MANABENDRA NATH SINHA, son of late Manmatha 
Nath Sinha, of 3 Kishori Mukherji Lane, Calcutta-6, have 
applied to be admitted as on Advocate in the roll of the 
Bar Council of West Bengal. 

(673—1) 


1. ANATH BANDHU DUTTA CHOUDFIURY, son of late 
Jogesh Chandra Dutta Choudhury, of Bihckananda Road, 
Police-station and district Hooghlv, have* applied to be 
admitted as an Advocate in the roil of the Bar Council of 
West Bengal. 

• (074 — 1) 


|f» MADANLAL DHANUKA, son of Shri Radhakishan, of 
i JO Kali Kumar Tagore Street, Calcutta-7, have applied to 
; ®o admitted as an Advocate in the roll of the Bar Council 
°f West Bengal. 

(675—1) 


T, SYEI) SHAMSUL ALAM, son of Syed Sbamsuzzolin, of 
2/2 Shah Aruan Lane, Kidderpore, Calcutta*, hove applied 
to he admitted as an Advocate in the roll of the Bar 
Council of West Bengal. 

(684—1) 


l. JANWARILALL PUG ALTA, son of Shri Randal 
Pugalia, of 13 Naormal Lohia Lane, Calcutta-7, have 
applied to be admitted as an Advocate in the roll of the 
Bar Council of West Bengal. 

(685 — 1) 


I, AMITLYA BHUSHAN MAJUMDAR, son ol Shri Sashi 
Mohan Majumdar, of 356/19 Netaji Subhos Chandra Bose 
Road, Calcutta-40, have applied to be admitted as an. 
Advocate in the roll of the Bar Council ort West Bengal. 

(6#6 — 1) 


I, SUDHANSU KUMAR KHAN, son of late Kishory 
Mohan Kha*n, of 17/1 Naha Kumar Nandy Bye Lane, 
Howrah, have applied to he admitted as an Advocate in 
the roll of the Bar Council of West Beugnl. • 

(687—1) 


1. PHANI BHUSAN MALLICK, son of late Panchanan 
Mailick, urf Bansheria. district Hooghly, have applied to be 
admitted as an Advocate in the roll of the State Bar 
Council of West Bengal. 

( 688 - 1 ) 


L Ram CHANDRA GUPTA, non of l»te Provash Chandra 
^pta, # °f 24/B Mohini Mohan Road, Calcutta-20, have 
applied* to be admitted as an Advocate in the roll of the 
Bar Council of West Bengal. 

(676—1) 


I, NIKHIL CHANDRA BIST M.A., B.L., son of late 
Kamoda Chandra Bislii, of 162/6/1 Lake Gardens, CaJ- 
cutta-33, have applied to be admitted as an Advocate in 
the roll of the State Bar Council of West Bengal. 

(689—1) 


200 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


[Part j 


1 PRASANTA KUMAR KHAN, son of Shri Panchaman 
ihan, of 29/1/1 Kuchin Sarkar Lane, Howrah, hare 
applied to he admitted as an Advocate m the roll of the 
State Bar Council of West Bengal. 

I Ila7\ J 1 1 I I 


1 TAPASH CHANDRA ROY, son of Shri Nitendra 
Chandra Bov, of 27 Raja Manindra Rond, Calcutta-37, 
have applici to be admitted as an Advocate in the roll of 
the Bar Council of West Bengal. 


1. ASHUTOSH PRAMAN1K, sc/n oi late Manik Lai 
Pramanick, Baradwany, post office a*nd district Hooghly, 
have applied to be admitted as an Advocate in the roll of 
the State Bar Council of West Bengal. 

(692 — 11 


I, KALI PROSAD ROY CHOUDHUR1, M.A., B.L., son of 
Shri Harendra Kumar Roy Choudhuri, of 30 Bisha-lakshi- 
tala Rtoad, Calcutta-34, have applied to he admitted as an 
Advocate in the roll ol the State Bar Council of West 
Bengal. 

( 69 :t n 


1. .JYOTI PBOKASH SADHUKHAN. M.Com., LL.B., son 
of Shn Mina»ti Kumar Sadhukhan, of 18 Mondal Street, 
Calcutta-6, have applied to be admitted as an Advocate in 
the roll of the State Bar Council of West Bengal. 

(694—1 ) 


I, RAM PRASAD BH ATTACH ARYY A , son of late Chnndi 
Charan Tarkatirtha, of 84 Dwarik Jungle Road, post office 
Bhadrakali, district Hooghly, have applied to be admitted 
as an Advocate in the roll of the State Bar Council of 
West Bengal. 

(695—1) 


I, DALCHAND SURANA, son of late Nemehand Surana, 
of 18 Hanspukur 1st Lane, Calcutta, have applied to be 
admitted as an Advocate in the roll of the Bar Council of 
West Bengal. 

(697—1) 


STATE BANK OF JAIPUR 
Head Office 

NOTICE 

SB.J. No. 3. dated Jaipur, the 12th June 1962. 

A list of the officers in the various branches of the Bank 
is hereby notified: — 

Calcutta Branch 

R. K. Jwala, acting as Agent. 

A. D. Mehta, acting as Accountant. 

A. M. Roy, acting as Assistant Accountant. 

M. R. Dutta, acting »s Assistant Accountant. 

O. K. Mishra, acting as Assistant Accountant. 

R. L. Birla, acting as Assistant Accountant. 

R. L. Jba, acting as Assistant Accountant. 

A. ItAGHAVACH ART, General Manager. 

(639 — 1) 

, 

IN THE MATTER OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT, 

1913 

AND 

BANKURA CLOTH MERCHANTS' ASSOCIATION LTD. 
(IN LIQUIDATION) 

NOTICE is hereby given that a meeting of the shareholders 
and creditors of the above Company in Liquidation will be 
held at the office of the Liquidator Shri J. C. Goswami, 
Chartered Accountant, at 34A Ananda Palit Road, Cal- 
cutta-14, on the 10th July 1902 at 11 a.m. 

J. C. GOSWAMI, Liquidator. 

(647 — 1) 


THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA 

Summary of tho Minutes of the Proceeding* of the Com 
mi talon era' etfi (Special) Mooting, held on tho ion 
April 1962 

At the 6th (Special) Meeting of the Commissioners hel< 
nn the 10th April 1962 the following business wai 
transacted : 

1. Formation of Committooai The Commissioner! 
approved the Chairman’s proposals regarding the formatioi 
oi the finance, Establishment and Traffic Committee*, th, 
Works and Marine Committee and the Land and Store 
Committee. 

The 14th June 1962. 

P. C. MITTER, Secretary 
(640—1 


THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA 

Summary of the Mlnutea of the Prooeedinga of the Com 
mieelonera’ 5th (Special) Meeting, hold on the atl 
April 1962 

At the 5th (Special) Meeting of the Com in is si one is hot 
on the 6th April 1962 the following business wa 
transacted : 

1. Maas resignation by officers of the Hooghly Piio 
Servioe: The Commissioners fully endofsed the actioi 
twken by the Chairman in his efforts to avert a critira 
situation and authorised him to take whatevef further step 
he considered necessary to meet the situation. 

The 14th June 1962. 


P. C. MITTER, Secretary 
(641-1 


NOTICE # 

Re.: STANDARD STATIONERY MANUFACTURERS 
LIMITED * ‘ •. 

(IN VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION) 

J ‘LEASE take notice that the adjourned Meeting of th 
Creditors of the Company will he held on Saturday, th 
4th August 1962, at 4-30 p.m. at N<jr. 13/1, College Square 
Calcutta, under the provision# of section 2090 of th 
Indian Companies Act, 1913. 

Calcutta, the 22nd June 1962. 

A. K. DEY, 

T. BANERJI. 
Joint Liquidators. 

(656—1 


NOTICE 

Re.: STANDARD STATIONERY MANUFACTURERS 
LIMITED 

(IN VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION) 

PLEASE lake notice that the adjourned General Meetin 
of the Creditors of the Company will be held on Saturday 
the 4th August 1962. at 4 p.m. at No. 13/1, College Squ**** 
Calcutta, under the provisions of section 209G of th 
Indian Companies Act, 1913. 

Calcutta, the 22nd June 1962. 

A. K. DEY, 

T. BANERJI. 
Joint Liquidators. 

(657-1 


Registered No. C207 



(Ealrutta 





(torttr 


ASADHA 7 ] 


THURSDAY, JUNE 28, 1962 


[ SAKA 1884 


PART IA — Orders and Notifications of the Government of India; Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India; and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 
and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India” are only 
republished. 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 
New Delhi, the 19th May 1962 
NOTIFICATIONS 

* . 

No. * WB-LA/ 25/ 62(43).— In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
name of the person shown in column 1 of the sche- 
dule below who having been a contesting candidate 
for the election to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly from the constituency specified in column 
2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, in 
accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule 4 of the said 
rule, failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 


Schedule 


Name and address of contesting Name of constituency 

candidate 

I 2 

^liri Bhaja Gohinda Rtoy, post Raiganj. 

office . anti police-Htation 
Raiganj, district West 
Dinajpur: 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1962 

No. WB-LA/ 40/ 62(44). In pursuance of sub- 

rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
names of the persons shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been contesting candi- 
dates for election to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly lrom the constituency specified in the 
corresponding entries in column 2 thereof, at the 
election held in 1962 have, in accordance with the 
decision given today by the Election Commission 
under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, failed to lodge 
any accounts of their election expenses and will 
accordingly become subject to the disqualification 
under clause (c) of section 7 of the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two 
months from the date of the said decision. 

Schedule 

Names and addresses of contesting 
candidates. 

1 

I. Shri Atm Barkat. Ataul 
Ghani Khan Chowdhury, 
post office Koto wall, dis- 
trict. Malda. 

2 Shri Ginsh Chandra 
Mandat, village Boirbona, 
post office Mahadipur, dis- 
trict Malda*. 

Shri Kuklal Sarkar, village 
and post office Krishnapur. 
district Malda. 


K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 


Name ol constituency 


Knliachuk. 


Kahachak. 


Kahuchnk 


By order, 


112 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


[Part ia 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1962 

No. WB-LA/1 11/62(51).— In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
name of the person shown in column 1 of the sche- 
dule below who having been a contesting candidate 
for the election to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly from the constituency specified in column 
2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, in 
accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 

Schedule 

Name and address ot‘ contesting Name of constituency 

candidate 

1 2 

Sim Keshab ('hawlra Sarkar, Ekbalpore. 

Wj I Hhukmlash Hoad, Co»l- 
riit la-2, ‘ i. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 

New Delhi, the 19th May 1962 

No. WB-LA / 52/62(55). — In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
196 !, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
name of the person shown in column 1 of the sche- 
dule below who having been a contesting candidate 
for the election to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly from the constituency specified in column 
2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, in 
accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 

Schedule 

Name and address ol contesting Name of constituency 

candidate 

1 2 

Sliri And Kumar Hnnerjee, * Beldanga. 

post office licldanga, dis- 
Incl iM ursliidabnd (West- 
Betigiil) . 

• • By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 

New Delhi, the 9th June 1962 

No. WB-LA/41 / 62(86). In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies 
the name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for election to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly from the constituency specified in column 
2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, in 


accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4)‘ of the said 
rule, failed to lodge his account of election expenses 
within the time required by law and will accordingly 
become subject to the disqualification under clause 
(c) of section 7 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months from 
the date of the said decision. 

Schedule 

Name and addres* of contesting Name of constituency 
candidate 

1 2 

Shri T. A. Nurannabi, village Farakka. 

Kuligram, post office Kuli, 
district Mursbidabad. 

By order, 

V. RAGHAVAN, Under Secy. 

New Delhi, the 13th June 1962 

No. WB-LA / 232 / 62( 87). — In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby noiitu-s 
the name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for election to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly from the constituency specified in column 
2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, in 
accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge his accounf of election expenses 
in the manner required by law and will accordingly 
become subject to the disqualification undcs, clause 
(c) of section 7 of the Representation of the Peoph 
Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months from the 
date of the said decision. 


Schedule 

Name* and address ol eon tenting; Name of eonstituenij 

candidate 

1 2 

Sk. Akka«s Ali, village Aladi- Kbandaghosli. 

pur, post office Saranga, 
district Burdwan. 

By order, 

V. RAGHAVAN, Under Serv 

New Delhi, the 15th June 1962 

No. WB-LA/ 135/ 62(88).— In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies 
the name of the person shown in column- 1 of the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for election to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly from the constituency specified in column 
2 thereof, at the. election held in 1962 has, * n 
accordance with the decision given today by 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the. said 


Pabt IA] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. JNUE 28, 1962 


113 


rule, failed to lodge his account of election expenses 
within the time required by law and will accordingly 
become subject to the disqualification under clause 
(c) of section 7 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months from 
the date of the said decision. 

Schedule 

Same and address oi contesting Name of constituency 
candidate 

1 2 

jibri Dhirendra Nath Das, 39/1 Cossipur. 

Cossipur Road, post office 
and police-station Cossipur, 

Caleutta-IUi. 


By order, 

V. RAGHAVAN, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 15th June 1962 

No. WB-LA/ 135/62(89). — In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, thf Election Commission hereby notifies 
the name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for election to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly from the constituency specified in column 
2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, in 
accordance with the decision given today by the 
flection Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
tule, failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under* clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration .of, two months from the date of the said 
decision? 


Schedule 

N r :«mc» and addroH* of contesting Name ot oonstitnenry 

candidate* 1 

1 2 

'4m Tribhuhan Nath Singh, Cossipur. 

100/.IK Cossipur Road. Cal- 
cutta-2. 


By order, 

V. RAGHAVAN, Under Secy. 


(c) of section 7 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months from the 
date of the said decision. 

Schedule 

Naim* and address of eon testing Name of constituency 

cundidutc 

1 2 
Sim Sambhu Charan tihosh, Joyn&gar North, 

village and post office 
Aloydah, district 24-Par- 
ganas. 


By order, 

V. RAGHAVAN, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 9th June 1962 

No. WB-LA /47/62(83). — In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies 
the name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for election to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly from the constituency specified in column 
2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, in 
accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
•decision. 


Schedule 

]\ a nit* and addrp^n oi coiitostiug 
candidate 

1 


Serial No. and name 
oi ronwtil w«*m*y 

2 


Shu Niipondra Nath Biswas, 47. Raninagar. 

village Bichpara, post 
oHiee Shihnagai, district 
\l u rshidabad. 


By order, 

V. RAGHAVAN, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 12th June 1962 

No. WB-LA/92/62(82). - In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies 
! the name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
! schedule below who having been a contesting 
^ndidate for election to the West Bengal Legislative 
^sembly .from the constituent specified in column 
“ thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, in 
jccordance \vith the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rul c failed to lodge his account of election expenses 
the manner required by law and will accordingly 
tecome subject to the disqualification under clause 


New Delhi, the 9th June 1962 

No. W B-L A / 47 / 62( 84 ) . — I n pursuance* of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies 
the name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for election to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly from the constituency specified in column 
2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, in 
accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge his account of election expenses 
within the time required by law and will accordingly 
become subject to the disqualification under clause 


114 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


[Part ]/, 


(c) of section 7 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months from the 
date of the said decision. 

Schedule 

Name and addrens oi contesting Name of constituency 

candidate 

1 2 

Shri Jiban Kanai Chandhury, Raninagar. 

Niamatpara, post office 
Katiaman. district Mur- 
shidabad. 


By order, 

V. RAGHAVAN, Under Sccy. 


New Delhi, the 9th June 1962 

No. WB/LA/41 /62(85). In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies 
the names of the persons shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been contesting 
candidates for election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembely from the constituency 
specified in the corresponding entries in column 
2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 have, in 
accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, ‘failed to lodge any accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 


Schedule 


Names and addresses of 
Candida tea 

1 


Serial No. and name of 
Constituency 

2 


Shri Johad Ahanirnad Biswas. 41. Fiwakkn. 

village Sikdarpnr, post 
office Tiohurpur. district 
Murshidahad. 

Shri Modashwar llossain, vil- 41. F»rakka. 

lage Dhurniadaiiga, post 
office* Bewa, district Mur- 
shidabad . 


By order, 

V. RAGHAVAN, Under Sccy. 


expenses and will accordingly become subject to th< 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of thi 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on th< 
expiration of two months from the date of the saic 
decision. 

Schedule 

Name and address of Name of constituents 
contesting candidate 

1 2 

Shri Santosh Kumar Goswami, Kharba. 

village Kaligram, post 
office Kaligram, district 
Malda 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Sccy 


New Delhi, 19th May 1962 

No. WB-LA/ 146/62(32). - In pursuance of sub 
lule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies tin 
name of the person shown in column 1 of the sche- 
dule below who having been a contesting candidate 
for the election to the West Bengal Legislate 
Assembly from the constituency specified in column 
2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, it 
accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
lule, failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to th^ 
disqualification under clause (r) of section 7 oi the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date pf the said 
decision. ' '• 


Schedule 

Name and address of Name of constituenev 
contesting candidate * 

1 2 

Syed Abul Hosain, village Uluberia South 

Runmahal, post office 
Dhulasinla, district 
Howrah. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Sccy. 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1962 

No. WB-LA/ 34/ 62(31). — In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
name of the person shown in column 1 of the sche- 
dule below wno having been a contesting candidate 
for the election to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly from the constituency specified in column 
2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, in 
accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge any account of his election 


New Delhi, the 19fh May 1962 

No. WB-LA/ 56/ 62(34). — In pursuance of sub-rub 
(5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961, 
the Election Commission hereby notifies the names oi 
the persons shown in column 1 of the schedule below 
who having been contesting candidates for election 
to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly from 
constituency specified in the corresponding entries 
in column 2 thereof, at^the election field in l™** 
have, in accordance with the decision given today 
by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4J of tw 
said rule, failed to lodge any accounts of tneu 
election expenses and will accordingly become sub- 
ject to the disqualification f under clause (c) 0 


Paft IA] 


•THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


115 


section 7 of the Representation of the People Act, 
j 951 , on the expiration of two months from the date 
0 f the said decision. 

Schedule 

Names and addresses of Serial No. and name 
contesting candidates of Constituency 


1 


2 

[]) Shri Abdus Sattar, village 
Sarangpur, post office 
Kokulpur-Gobindapur, 
district Murshidabad 

... 56. 

Jalangi. 

[2) Shri Golam Gans, village 
Kuchemora, post office 
Garaimari, district Mur- 
shidabad 

... 56. 

Jalangi. 

[3) Shri Gayatri Kumar Chow- 
dhury, post office and 
village Bhagirathpur, dis- 
trict Murshidabad 

... 56. 

Jalangi. 

By order, 



K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 

New Delhi, the 22nd May 1962 

No. WB-LA/ 53/ 62(56). — In pursuance of sub-rule 
i) of rule 89*of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
%1, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
ame of the person shown in column 1 of the 
:hedule below who having been a contesting 
mdidatc for the election to the West Bengal 
egislative Assembly from the constituency specified 
i column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, 
i accordance with the decision given today by the 
lection Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
ale, failed to lodge any account of his election 
^penses and will accordingly become subject to the 
^qualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
epresentation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
tpiration of two months from the date of the said 
ecision. 

SOHEDULE 

Name and address of Name of constituency 

contesting candidate 

1 2 

Shri Abdul Haquc, village 
Hareknagar, post office 
Hareknagar, district 
Murshidabad ... Naoda. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Sccy. 

* Nqw Delhi, the 19th May 1962 

No. WB-LA / 54/ 62(57).— In pursuance of sub-rule 
5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
'am e of the person shown in column 1 of the 
chedule below who having been a contesting 
andidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Egislative Assembly from the constituency specified 
n column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, 
# accordance with the decision given today by the 
Action Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 


rule, failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 

Schedule 

Name and address of Name of Constituency 

contesting candidate 

1 2 

Shri Khandekar Nurul Islam, 

Gorabazar Old Police 
Line Road, post office 
Berhampore, district 
Murshidabad ... Berhampore. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Sccy. 

New Delhi, the 19th May 1962 

No. WB-LA/ 95/ 62(67). — In pursuance of sub-rule 
(5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the constituency specified 
in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, 
in accordance with the decision given today by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 

Schedule 

Name and address of Name of constituency 

contesting candidate 

1 2 

Shri Haripada^ Baguli, village 
Kamalpur, post office 
Rudranagar, district 24- 
Parganas ... Kakdwip. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Sccy. 

New Delhi, the 21st June 1962 

No. WB-LA / 21 /62(29-Rl ). It is hereby notified 
for general information that the disqualification under 
clause (c) of section 7 of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, incurred by the persop whose 
name and address are given below, as notified under 
notification No. WB-LA /21 '62(29), dated the 15th 
May 1962, has been removed by the Election Com- 
mission in exercise of the powers conferred on it by 
the said clause and section of the said Act: — 

Shri Tenzing Wangdi, Wangyal Building, post 
office Ghoom, district Darjeeling. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Sccy. 


116 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


[Part i* 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, 19th May 1962 

No. WB-LA/67/62(37). — In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
names of the persons shown in column 1 of the 
schedule below who having been contesting candi- 
dates for election to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly from the Constituency specified in the 
corresponding entries in column 2 thereof, at the 
election held in 1962 have, in accordance with the 
decision given today by the Election Commission 
under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, failed to lodge 
any accounts of their election expenses and will 
accordingly become subject to the disqualification 
under clause (c) of section 7 of the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two 
months from the date of the said decision. 


Schedule 

Names and addresses of Serial No. and name 

contesting candidates. of Constituency. 

1 2 

(1) Shri Surcswar lndu, post 

office and village Birohi, 

district Nadia ... 67. Haringhata. 

(2) Shri Gobinda Prosad Dey, 
post office and village 

Subarnapur, district Nadia ... 67. Haringhata. 

(3) Shri Manindra Nath Bhow- 

mik, post office and village 

Silinda, district Nadia ... 67. Haringhata. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secy., Election Commission, India. 


New Delhi, 19th May 1962 

No. WB-LA/ 104/ 62(49). In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
names of th^ persons shown in column I of the 
schedule below who having been contesting candi- 
dates for election to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly from the Constituency specified in the 
corresponding entries in column 2 thereof, at the 
election held in 1962 have, in accordance with the 
decision given today by the Election Commission 
under sub-rule (4) of the .said rule, failed to lodge 
any accounts of their election expenses and will 
accordingly become subject to the disqualification 
under clause (c) of section 7 of the Representation 


of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of tw, 
months from the date of the said decision. 

Schedule 

Names and addresses of Serial No. and nam 

contesting candidates. of Constituency. 

1 2 

(1) Shri Srish Chandra Bag 

village Dakshin Gauripur 
post office Dakshin Gauri- 
pur, police-station Bishnu- 
pur, 24-Parganas ... 104. Bishnupu 

East. 

(2) Shri Bholanath Biswas 

v il 1 a ge R amkrishnapur 

post office Rashkhali, 
police-station Bishnupur, 

24-Parganas ... 104. Bishnupu 

East. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secy., Election Commission, lndu 

New Delhi, 19th May 1962 

No. WB-LA/ 120/62(53). — In pursuance of sul 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Ejections Rule 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies tli 
name of the person shown in column J of the schc 
dule below who having been a contesting candidal 
for the election to the West Bengal Legislate 
Assembly from the Constituency specified i 
column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 ha 
in accordance with the decision given today by th 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the sai 
rule, failed to lodge any account of his clectm 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to th 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of th 
Representation of the People Act, 1951* on th 
expiration of two months from the date of the mi 
decision. 

Schedule 

Name and address of 'Name of Constituent’ 

contesting candidate. 

1 2 
Shri Chandra Nath Banik, 

P-41 IF, Gariahata Road, 

Calcutta-29 ... Beliaghata 

North. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secy., Election Commission, lndi 

New Delhi, 19th May 1962 

No. WB-LA/ 137/ 62(54). — In pursuance of ^ 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rule 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies tt 
name of the person shown in column 1 of the schi 
dule below who having been a contesting Candida 1 
for the election to the West Bengal Legislatij 
Assembly from the Constituency specified 1 
column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 n<j 
in accordance with the decision given today by [ 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the saj 


Part IA] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


117 


ru le, failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 


Schedule 

Name and address of Name of Constituency, 

contesting candidate. 

1 2 

Shri Moni Lai Bose, 7/1 
Kashinath Chatterjee 
Lane, Shibpur, Howrah ... Howrah South. 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secy., Election Commission, India. 


New Delhi, 19th May 1962 

No. WB-LA/ 83/ 62(60). — In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
names of the persons shown in column I of the 
schedule bcloy who having been contesting candi- 
dates for election to the West Bengal Legislative 
Assembly *from the Constituency specified in the 
corresponding entries in column 2 thereof, at the 
election held in 1962 have, in accordance with the 
decision given today by the Election Commission 
under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, failed to lodge 
,my accounts of their election expenses and will 
accordingly become subject to the disqualification 
under clause (c) of section 7 of the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two 
months from the date of the said decision. 


Schedule 


Names and addresses of Name 
contesting candidates. 

1 

(1) Shri Abdul Latif, village 
Naturia, post otllce Rud ra- 
pin’, district 24-Parganas 

(2) Shri Kshitindra Nath 

Chowdhary, 7 A and 7D 
Ballyganj Station Road, 
Calcutta- 19 


of Constituency. 
2 


Baduria. 


Baduria. 


By order, 
K. K. SETHI, 


Under Secy., Election Commission, India. 


# New Delhi, 19th May 1962 

No. WB-LA/ 89/ 62(64). -In pursuance of sub- 
rule .(5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1%1, the Election Commission hereby notifies the 
name of the person shown in column 1 of the sche- 
dule below who having been a contesting candidate 
for the ’ election to the West Bengal Legislative 
i Assembly • from the Constituency specified in 
column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, 
in accordance with the decision given today by the 


Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge anv account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two ^months from the dale of the said 
decision. 


Schedule 


Name and address of Serial No. and name 
contesting candidate of Constituency. 

1 2 
Shekh Hobibar Rahaman, 
village /para Shekh Para, 
post office Dhudurdaha, 

24-Parganas ... 89. Bhangar. 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secy., Election Commission, India. 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1962. 

No. WB-LA/ 90/ 62(65). In pursuance of sub- 
rule ( )) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Flection Commission hereby 
notifies the names of the persons shown in column 1 
of the schedule below, who having been contesting 
candidates for election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified 
in the corresponding entries in column 2 thereof, at 
the election held in 1962 have, in accordance vuth 
the decision given today bv the Election Com- 
mission under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, 
failed to lodge any accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 

Schedule 


Names and addresses of Serial No. and 

contesting candidates name of constituency! 

1 2 

(1) Shri L. Khater Ali, village 

Uttardhanga Paschimpara, 
post office Gosaba, 

24-Parganas ... 90. Basanti 

(2) Shri Naoser Ali Molla, 

village Ramchandra Khali, 
post office Basanti, 

24-Parganas ... 90. Basanti 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

UndeD Secy., 

Election Com mission, India. 

New Delhi, the 19th May 1962. 

No. WB-LA 9] 62(66). In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Election^ 
Rules, 1961. the Election Commission hereby 
notifies the names of the persons shown in column I 
of the schedule below, who having been contesting 
candidates for election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified 
in the corresponding entries in column 2 thereof, at 
the election held in 1962 have, in accordance with 


118 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


[Part 1a 


the decision given today by the Election Com- 
mission under sub-rule (4) of the said rule* 
failed to lodge any accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act* 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 


Schedule 

Name and address of Name of 

contesting candidate Constituency 

1 2 
Shri Amulya Charan Naskar, 

Village Kochiamara, post 

office Meragunj, 24-Parganas Canning 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secy., 

Election Commission, India. 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1962. 

No. WB-LA/ 99/ 62(68). - In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby 
notilies the names of the persons shown in column 1 
of the schedule below, who having been contesting 
candidates for election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified 
in the .corresponding entries in column 2 thereof, at 
the election held in 1962 have, in accordance with 
the decision given today by the Election Com- 
mission under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, 
failed to lodge any accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 


Schedule 

Names and addresses of Serial No. and 

contesting candidates name of constituency. 

1 2 
(l) Shri Kalipada Mondal, 


village Aladadpur, post 
office Sahipur, district 
24-Parganas 

99. 

Falta 

(2) Shri Afala Mir, village 
Neogirhat, post office Sahi- 
pur, district 24-Parganas 

99. 

Falta 

(3) Shri Haran Ali Molla, 
village Nantakhali, post 
office *Sah\pur, district 

24-Parganas 

99. 

Falta 

(4) Shri Jaharaddin Shaikh, 
village Basulat, post office 
Falta, district 24-Parganas 

99. 

Falta 


By order, 


K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secy., 

Election Commission, India. 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1962. 

No. WB-LA/ 100/62(69). — In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby 
notifies the names of the persons shown in column 1 
of the schedule below, who having been contesting 
candidates for election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified 
in the corresponding entries in column 2 thereof, at 
the election held in 1962 have, in accordance with 
the decision given today by the Election Com- 
mission under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, 
failed to lodge any accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 


Schedule 

Name and address of 
contesting candidate 

1 

Shri Promotha Nath Haidar, 
village Ramchandrapur, 
post office Sherpur, district 
24-Parganas ... Magr.ahat West 

By orddr, 

K. K. SETHI, 
Under Sccy., 

Election Commission, India 


Name of 
Constituency 

2 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1962. 

No. WB-LA/ 141 /62(70). -- - In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of .Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission 'hereby 
notifies the names of the persons shown in column 1 
of the schedule below, who having been contesting 
candidates for election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified 
in the corresponding entries in column 2 thereof, at 
the election held in 1962 have, in accordance ^ith 
the decision given today by the Election Com- 
mission under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, 
failed to lodge any accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 


Schedule 


Name and address of 
contesting candidate 

1 

Shri Radharaman Mitra, 3 
Akhoy Chatterjee Lane, post 
office Salkia, district Howrah 


Name of 
Constjtuencv 

2 . 


Domjur 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 
Under Secy., 

Election Commission, India 


P.ikt IA] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


119 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1962. 

Mo. WB-LA/ 149/ 62(71). — In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby 
notifies the names of the persons shown in column 1 
0 f the schedule below, who having been contesting 
candidates for election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituencv specified 
in ‘the corresponding entries in column 2 thereof, at 
the election held in 1962 have, in accordance with 
the decision given today by the Election Com- 
mission under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, 
failed to lodge any accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (e) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 

Schedule 

Name and address of Name of 

contesting candidate Constituency 

1 2 

Shri Himangshu Kumar Barni, 
village Boalia, post office 
(hikira, district Howrah ... Udaynaravanpur 

.* 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

; Under Secy., 

Election Commission, India. 


New Delhi, the 1 9th M iv 1962. 

No. WB-LA / 152/ 62<*72). In pursuance of sub- 
ulo (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections. 
Uiles, ,1961,* the Election C ommission hereby 
unities the names of the persons diown in column 1 
if the schedule below, who having been contesting 
andidates for election to the West Bengal 
egislativc Assembly from the Constituencv specified 
i the corresponding entries in column 2 thereof, at 
he election held in 1962 have, in accordance with 
he decision given today bv the Election Com- 
mission under sub-rule (4) of the said nde, 
jiWl to lodge anv accounts of their election 
xpenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
^qualification under clause (e) of section 7 r f the 
^presentation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
xpiration of two months from the date of the s; id 
ecision. 

Schedule 

Name and address of Name of 

contesting candidate Constituencv 

* 1 2 

hri Sailendra Prasad Ghosh, 

Bargachia, post office 

Nalikul, district Hooghly Chanditala 

Bv order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secv., 

Election Commission, India. 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1962. 

No. WB-LA/ 164 / 62(75). -- In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby 
notifies the names of the persons shown in column I 
of the schedule below, who having been contesting 
candidates for election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituencv specified 
in the corresponding entries in column 2 thereof, at 
the election held in 1962 have, in accordance with 
the decision given today bv the Election Com- 
mission under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, 
failed to lodge anv accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (e) of section 7 of the 
Representation ol the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 

Schedule 

Name and address of Serial No. and 

contesting candidate name of constituency 

l 2 

Shri Anil Kumar Dutta, village 

Tirolc, post office Tirole, 

district Hooghly ... 164. Arambagh 

East 

Bv order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secy., 

Election Commission, h.dia. 


New Delhi, the 22nd May 1962. 

No. WB-LA / 76/ 62(59). In pursuance of sub- 

rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby 
notifies the names of the persons shown in column I 
of the schedule below, who having been contesting 
candidates for election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified 
in the corresponding entries in column 2 thereof, at 
the election held in 1962 have, in accordance with 
the decision given today by the Election Com- 
mission under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, 
failed to lodge anv accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
ex ni ration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 

Schedule 

Name and address of Name of 

contesting candidate Constituency 

I ' 2» 

Shri Ram Babu Saha, R. P. 

Gupta Path, Titagarh, post 
office Titagarh, district 

24-Parganas ... Titagarh 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secv., 

Election Commission, India. 


120 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


[Part 1 / 


New Delhi, the 22nd May 1962. 

No. WB-LA/ 85/ 62(61). — In pursuance c f sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby 
notifies the names of the persons shown in column l 
of the schedule below, who having been contesting 
candidates for election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified 
in the corresponding entries in column 2 thereof, at 
the election held in 1962 have, in accordance with 
the decision given today bv the Election Com- 
mission under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, 
failed to lodge any accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 

Schedule 

Name and address of Serial No. and 

contesting candidate name of constituency 

1 2 

Shri Bholanuth Brohmachari, 

post office Hasnabad, 

Sundarban, district 

24-Parganas ... 85. Hasnabad. 

Bv order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secy., 

Election Commission, India. 


New Delhi, the 22nd May 1962. 

No. WB-LA/ 87/62(63). — In pursuance of sub 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct .of Election 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereb 
notifies the names of the persons shown in column" 
of the schedule below, who having been contemn 
candidates lor election to the West Bengi 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specifo 
in the corresponding entries in column 2 thereof, a 
the election held in 1962 have, in accordance \vu| 
the decision given today by the Election Com 
mission under sub-rule (4) of the said rule 
failed to lodge any accounts of their eleclioj 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to thi 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of th, 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on thi 
expiration of two months from the date of the sail 
decision. 

Schedule 

Name and address of 
contesting candidate 

1 

Shri Abhimannyu Das, 
village Parcypara, post 

office Khulna, district 

24-Parganas ... Kalinagar 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secy., 

Election Commission, India, 


Name of 
Constituency 
2 


New Delhi, the 22nd May 1962. 

No. WB-LA '86/62(62). — In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby 
notifies the names of the persons shown in column 1 
of the schedule below, who having been contesting 
candidates for election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assemblv from the Constituency specified 
in the corresponding entries in column 2 thereof, at 
the election held in 1962 have, in accordance with 
the decision given today bv the Election Com- 
mission under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, 
failed to lodge any accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 

Schedule 

Name and address of Serial No. and 

contestirfg candidate name of constituency 

1 2 

Shri Binod Bihari Gayen, 
village and post office 
Khulna, district 24-Parganas 86. Sandeshkhali 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secy.. 

Election Commission, India. 


New Delhi, the 22nd May 1962. 

No. WB-LA/ 187 162(77). f In pursuance of sub 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Election 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission huvh 
notifies the names of the persons shown in Column 
of the schedule below, who having been contcsimi 
candidates for election to the West Benga 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency spcnfri 
in the corresponding entries iv column 2 thereof, a 
the election held in 1962 have, in accordance 'utl 
the decision given today by the Election Com 
mission under sub-rule (4) of the said ri’.’e 
failed to lodge any accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to tht 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of rh< 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on M 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 

Schedule j 

Name and address of Serial No. ami 

contesting candidate name of constituent 
1 . 2 

Shri Balai Chand Ghose, 
post office Nimpura, 

Kharagpur, district Midna- 

pore ... 187. Kharagpur 

By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 

Under Secy.,^ 

Election Commission. India 


Part IA] 


' THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


121 


New Delhi, the 22nd May 1962 

No. WB-LA/4/ 62(39). — In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) ol rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby 
notifies the name of the person shown in column 1 
of the schedule below, who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified 
in column 2 thereof, at the election held 
in 1962 has, in accordance with the 
decision given today by the Election Commission 
under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, 
failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 


Schedule 

Name and address of Serial No. and 

contesting candidate name of 

Constituency 

1 2 

Shri Mahesh Chandra 4. Dinhata 
Singh, village Bhangni, Part 
II, post office Nigamnagar, 
district jCooch Behar 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 
Under Secy., 


New Delhi, the 22nd May 1962 

No. WB-LA,/ 1 10/62(50). — In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby 
notifies the name of the person shown in column 1 
of the schedule below, who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified 
in column 2 thereof, at the election held 
in 1^62 has, in accordance with the 
decision given today by the Election Commission 
under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, 
failed to lodge anv account of his election 
expenses and wilt accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act. 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 


Schedule 

Name and address of 
contesting candidate 

1 

Shri Bhutnath Dey, 6A St. 
George Terrace, Calcutta- 
22 


Serial No. and 
name of 
Constituency 

2 

110. Fort 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 
Under Secy., 


New Delhi, the 22nd May 1962 

No. WB-LA/ 33/62(41 ). -- In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) pf rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules';* 1961, the Election Commission hereby 
notifies the name of the person shown in column 1 
of the schedule below, who having been a contesting' 
candidate for tlfe election to the West Bengal 

legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified 
in column 2 thereof, at the election held 
in 1%2 has, in accordance with the 

decision given today by the Election Commission 
under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, 
failed to lodge any account of his election 

expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 nf the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 

expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 


New Delhi, the 22nd May 1962 

No. WB-LA/ 1 19/62(52). In pursuance of sub- 
rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby 
notifies the name of the person shown in column 1 
of the schedule below, who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified 
in column 2 thereof, at the election held 
in 1962 has, in accordance wilh the 
decision given today bv the Election Commission 
under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, 
failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act. 1951 1 on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 


Schedule 


Name and address of 
contesting candidate 

1 


Serial No. and 
name of 
Constituency 

2 


Shri * Sajani Sarkar, village 33. Malda 

Fatepur, post office Gajol, 
district Malda 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 
Under Secy. 


Schedule 


Name and address of 
contesting candidate 

I 


Serial No. and 
• na/nc of 
Constituency 


Shri Manmatha Khotick, 8 119. Beliaghata 

Chingrighata Lane. South 

Calcutta-15 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 
Under Secy. 


122 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


[Part 1a 


New Delhi, the 22nd May 1962 

No. WB-LA/ 71/ 62(58). — In pursuance of sub- 
rule ( 5 ) of rule 89 of the Conduct ot Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby 
notifies the name of the person shown in column 1 
of the schedule below, who having been a contesting 
candidate for the election to the West Bengal 
Legislative Assembly from the Constituency specified 
in column 2 thereof, at the election held 
in 1962 has, in accordance with the 
decision given today by the Election Commission 
under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, 
failed to lodge any account of his election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the 
disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said 
decision. 


Schedule 


Name and address of Name of 

contesting candidate Constituency 


1 2 

Shri Harun-ar-Rashid, Barasat 

village Ula, post office 

Chota Jagulia, district 

24-Parganas 


By order, 

K. K. SETHI, 
Under Secy., 


New Delhi, the 7th June 1962 

No. 82/152/62. Whereas the election of Shrimati 
Maya Bancrjcc as a member of the Legislative 
Assembly of the State of West Bengal from the 
Kakdwip constituency has been called in question 
by an election petition presented under Part VI of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 

1951), by Shri Hrishikcsh Maity, son of Shri Bankim 
Behari Maity, Kakdwip, police-station Kakdwip, 
district 24-Parganas; 

And whereas the Election Commission has caused 
a copy of the petition to be published in the official 
gazette and has served a copy thereof by post on 
each of the respondents under sub-section (1) of 
section 86 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951 (43 of 1951); 

Now, Therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sections 86 and 88 of the said Act, the 
Election Commission hereby appoints Shri Anil 
Kumar Sen, Judge, City Civil and Sessions Courts, 
Calcutta, as the member of the Election Tribunal 
for the trial of the said petition and Calcutta as the 
place where the trial of the petition shall be held. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 22nd May 1962. 

NOTIFICATION 

No. 4/6/62-Poll(I). — In exercise of the powei* 
conferred by sub-section (1) read with sub-section (2) 
of section 4 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 
1961 (23 of 1961), the Central Government hereby 
declares the issue No. 16, dated the 20th April 1962 , 
of the magazine entitled “Peking Review” published 
by Peking Review Pai Wan Chuang, Peking (37), 
China, and printed in the People’s Republic of China, 
and every copy of the said issue and all other docu- 
ments containing copies, reprints and translations 
ot, or extracts from the said issue, to be forfeited to 
the Government on the ground that the article 
entitled “Sino-Indian Relations — Chinese and Indian 
Governments Exchange Notes” contained in the said 
issue, the publication of which is punishable under 
section 2 of the said Act, questions the territorial 
integrity and frontiers of India in a manner which 
is likely to be prejudicial to the interests of the 
safety and security of India. 

N. SAHGAL, Jt. Sec*. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND 
COMMUNICATION 


Department of Transport (Transport .Wing) 

New Delhi, the 26th March 1962 

No. 9-PG(5)/62. — In pursuance of sub-section ( 2 ) 
of section 6 of the Calcutta Port Act, 1890 (TIT oi 
1890), the names of the following persons who have 
been elected as Commissioners of the port of Cal- 
cutta, for a period of two years from the 1st April 
1962, arc hereby published for general informa- 
tion : — 


Name of elected person. 


Shri D. N. Bhattacharjee 
Shri B. N. Banerjee. 

Shri B. P. Bajoria. 

Shri M. L. Shah 
Shri R. H. Mody. 


Shri M. R. Das 
Shri J. B. Craig. 


Shri K. L. Dhandhania 


Constituency from 
which eleetM. 

. . Bengal National 
Chamber of Com- 
merce and Indus- 
♦ fry. 

Indian Chamber of 
Commerce, Cal- 
cutta. 

. . The Bengal Chamber 
of Commerce 

and Industry. 

. . Bharat Chamber of 
Commerce. 
Merchant’s Chamber 
of Commerce. 

Oriental Chamber 
of Comirfor.ee. 
Indian National 
Steamship- Owners’ 
Association. 


Shri Bhagwati Prasad Agarwala 
Khan Bahadur G. A. Dossani . . 
Shri I. N. Wankawalla 


Shri Brojendra Nath Banerjee Corporation 

Calcutta. . 


By order, 


Shri Satya Kinkar Sen 


Howrah Municipality. 


K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 


HARBANS SINGH, Under Secy 


Pabt IA] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


123 


. MINISTRY OF FINANCE 


Department of Revenue 


NOTIFICATIONS 


New Delhi, the 21st May, 1962 
Income-tax Establishment 

No. 97.— Shri B. M. Mitra, Commissioner of 
Income-tax, Calcutta, has been granted earned leave 
lor nineteen days from 1 5th May to 2nd June 1962, 
with permission to suffix Sunday the 3rd June J%2 
to the leave. 

No. 98. -Shri F. H. Vallibhoy, Commissioner of 
Income-tax, West Bengal, Calcutta, has taken over as 
Commissioner of Income-tax, Calcutta, in addition 
to his own duties, on the afternoon of 14th May 
1962, vice Shri B. M. Mitra. 

No. 101. — SIfri M. A. Kasem, Appellate Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax, N Range, Calcutta, 
has taken over as Appellate Assistant Commissioner 
of Income-tax, II Range, Calcutta, in addition to his 
own duties, on the afternoon ot 7th May 1962, vice 
Shri C. Rajagopalan Nair, transferred. 


H. G. THOMAS, Under Secy. 


GOVERNMENT OF ANDHRA PRADESH 

Home (General A) Department 
NOTIFICATION 

G.O.Ms. No. 678.— 6th April 1962. Whereas it 
appears to the Government that the Telugu book 
entitled “Satya Drushti” written by Shri A. Surya- 
natayana, resident of Devasadan Gavada P.O., Guntur 
district, and printed at Nalanda Press, Tenali, con- 
toms matter (portions of which book are appended to 
disorder), which is grossly offensive and provoca- 
tive, and has been written with deliberate and 
malicious intention of outraging the religious feelings 
of the Hindu community by insulting their religion 
and the religious beliefs of that community; 

And whereas the publication of which book is 
punishable under section 295-A of the Indian Penal 
Code (Central Act 45 of 1860); 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
oy seotion 99-A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 
^9^ (Central Act 5 of 1898), the Governor of Andhra 
jfadesh hereby declares that all copies wherever 
found of the aforesaid book and ail other documents 


containing copies, reprints, translations or extracts 
from the said book wherever found shall be forfeited 
to Government. 


Pago. 

54 

Lines from 2 1 to 25. 

t 9 

55 

» 

„ I to 3. 

ft 

74 

tf 

„ 20 to 22. 

ft 

75 

ft 

1 to 4. 

ft 

75 

tt 

5 to 16. 

ft 

% 

75 

tf 

„ 17 to 24. 


76 


1 to 3. 

ft 

70 

tt 

M 4 to 25. 

ft 

77 

t • 

,* 1 to 4. 

ft 

77 

tt 

5 to 16. 

ft 

78 

» 

1 to 8. 

ft 

81 


3 to 5. 

ft 

84 


,, 14 to 23. 

ft 

85 


»» 1 and 2. 

» 

85 

.. 

„ 3 to 25. 

ft 

86 

99 

„ 1 to 6. 

99 

118 

99 

,, 1 to 9. 





ft 

118 

99 

„ 17 to 23. 

ft 

119 

M 

„ 1 to 23. 

99 

120 

99 

„ 1 to 10. 

99 

122 

ft 

„ 12 to 24. 

99 

123 

•» 

„ 1 to 18. 

99 

124 

tf 

„ 19 to 24. 

tt 

125 

»• 

„ 24 and 25. 

It 

126 

99 

». 1 arid 2. 

•’ 

129 

» 

.. 8 to 25. 


130 


„ 1 to 25, 


131 


„ Mo 19. 

ft 

135 

99 

,, 13 to 21. 

tt 

136 

M 

1 to 4. 

» 

136 

• » 

* » 

„ 23 to 25. 

M 

137 

•• 

,, First lino. 

»* 

137 

•• 

» 3 to 7. 




ILLEGIBLE, 


•Sujiorintondont . 

I. RAMCHANDER RAO. 
Sccy. to Government. 


124 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE. JUNE 28, 1962 


[■Part l 


LIST OF LIOENOES ISSUED UNDER THE INDUSTRIES (DEVELOPMENT AND REOULATION) AOT, 1951, FOR THE 

WEEK ENDINO 3RD FEBRUARY 1SS1. 

Solid. Ind. No. 2(1) — Ooal LignMo, Ooko and iholr Dorivativoo. 

‘he Administrator, Durgapur Project, Government of Wes 
Bengal, New Secretariat Buildings, Calcutta*! (West Bengal). 


Capacity per annum 

(Tons). 

Crude Naphthalene 

2,160 

Wash oil 

3,600 

Anthracene oil 

7,200 

Pitch 

20,880 

Carbolic oil (Phenol) 

900 


(S.E.). 

Solid. Ind. No. 22— Drugs and Pharmaceutical*. 

Dey’s Modioal Stores (Manufacturing) Private Ltd., CD Lindsay Magnesium Hydroxide 200 tons L-22-104-02-Ch.IU 27-1 -02. 
Street, Calcutta- 16 (West Bengal). p.a. (S.E.). 


LIST OF LI0EN0E8 I88UED UNDER THE INDUSTRIES (DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) ACT,', 1951, DURING 

THE WEEK ENDING 17TH FEBRUARY 1962. 


Name and addreHS of the Industrial Undertaking 
(and location). 


Articles of manufacture and 
capacity (and type of licence, 
i.o., NU-SE-NA-COB-Shifting). 


Licence number and date. 


8chd. Ind. No. 2(1)— Ooal Lignite, Ooke and their Derivatives. 

Annual Capacity 


Paraseaf Collieries Ltd., 25 Netuji Sub haw Road, Calcutta 
g|(Mauza Bahadurpur, district Burdwan, West Bengal). 


r— . 

A — * 

Year. 

In ton* 

1st year 

24,000 

2nd year 

48,000 

3rd year 

78,000 

4th year 

102,000 

6th year 

120,000 


L-2(l)-N 35-02. 13 2-62. 


(N.U.) 

8chd. Ind. No. 9— Machine Tools. 

11. Hindustan Gas Co. Ltd., 22 New Tangra Road, Calcutta ! 5 (i) Furnaces — Capacity will be L-9-74-MEJ -02, 3-2-62. 

(West Bengal). determined, 

(ii) Blowers — one year after pro- 
duction commences. (S.E.) 


8ohd. Ind. No. 19(4)— Synthetic Resing and Plastics. 

16. The Alkali and Chemical Corporation of India Ltd., 34, Alkyd, P. F. Resins, modified L-l9(0)-l-62-CHII, 7-2-62. 
Chowringhee, Calcutta- 10 (Rishra. West- Bengal). 900 tonnes per annum, (C.O.B.) 


LI8Tt*OF^ LICENCES I88UED UNDER THE INDU8TRIE8 (DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) AOT, 1951, 

FOR THE WEEK ENDING 10TH FEBRUARY 1881. 

6. Bey’s Medical Stores (Manufacturing) Private Ltd.. 611 (Annual capacity in tonnes) L-22-K-62-A A I , 5-2-62 
Lindsav Street. Calcutta- 16 (West, Bengal). 


Chloramphenicol 

(N.U.) 


18 only. 


STATEMENT 8H0WINQ THE CHANGES IN THE NAMES OF THE OWNER/UNDERTAKING EFFECTED 
DURING THE WEEK ENDING 10TH FEBRUARY 1962. 


Liotnoos Revoked during the week ending 10th February 1962. 

Licence number and date (and location). Name of the party. Articles of manufacture. 


1. L-24(3)-N- 16-80, 23-2-60, (Pandooah, district Hooghly, West Shri Anil Kumar Nandy, Straw Board. 

Bengal). Calcutta. 



[>akt I A] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


125 


THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED 
ACCOUNTANTS OF INDIA 

New Delhi-1, the 3rd February, 1962. 

No. 4-CA(l )/ 16/61-62. — In pursuance of regula- 
tion 12 of the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 


1949, it is hereby notified that in exercise of the 
powers conferred by clause (c) of sub-section (1) of 
section 20 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949, 
the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India has removed from the Register of Members 
with effect from 1st April 1961, on account of non- 
payment of the prescribed fees, the names of the 
following gentlemen : 


Membership Name and Address. 

No. No. 


1 

2 

3 

4 


308 Shri Kannappady Sitha Rama Sambiah, 45 I^ansdowno Terrace, Kalighat, Calcutta- 20. 

1095 Shri Sreepada Anantha Padmanabha Swaray, 83/5 Dawnagazi Road, Bally (district Howrah). 
Gill Shri C. S. Ramaswamy Iyer, Churangara M adorn, Perampavoor, Kerala. 

6303 Shri Kalyan Kumar Saha, 20/ IB Rani Sankari Lane, Caloutta-26. 


B. R. MALHOTRA, Acting Secy. 


New Delhi- 1, the 24th January 1962. 

No. 5-CA(l)/8/6l-62. — With reference to this 
ListitutcY. notification No. 25-CA(16)/53, dated the 
!‘Mli Scnembcr 1957, it is hereby notified in pur- 
mm.ky of regulation 14 of the Chartered Account- 
inis Regulations, 1949, that in exercise of the powers 


conferred by regulation 13 of the said Regulations, 
the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India has restored to the Register of Members, 
with effect from the 8th day of January 1962, the 
name of Shri Bhupendra Nath Mukhopadhyay, 
F.C.A., 20 British Indian Street, Calcutta-1, (Mem- 
bership No. 250). 

B. R. MALHOTRA, Acting Secy. 


New Delhi-1, the 2nd January 1962. 

No. 4-CA(l )/ 13/61-62. — In pursuance of regula- 
»«>n l2 of the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 
1 949, it is hereby notified that in exercise of the 
powers conferred bv clause (c) of sub-section (1) of 
'ction 20 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949, 

Serial Membership 
No. No. 

*1 848 

2 1063 

3 2999 

4 3002 

^5 3080 

0 3105 

7 - 3360 

8 ‘ 3954 

9 4013 

10 5001 

11 • 6241 


the Council of the Institute of Chartered Account- 
ants of India has removed from the Register of 
Members, with effect from the dates mentioned 
against their names, on account of non-payment 
of the prescribed fees, the names of the following 
gentlemen : — 

Dare of 
Removal. 

1-4-1961 

1-4 1961 

1-4-1061 

1-41961 
1 4-1901 
1-4 1901 
1-4-1001 

1-4-1961 
1-4-1961 
1-4-1901 


Name and Address. 

Shri Udaya Nand Sliarma, 67 Jaswant Building, Jodhpur 
Shri Sachindra Nath Gupta, 254 Panchanantala Road, Howrah 

Shri Mohamed Ahsanuddin Shar iff, Accountant, Pakistan Petroluem Ltd , P I D C House, Kutohery 
Road, Karachi (Pakistan) 

Shri Hemant Kumsr Soni, Soni Bhavan, North Tukoganj, Indore 

Shri GopalkriHhna Madhavrao Bhat, 40 41 Commercial Chamfers, Masjid Bunder Road, Bombay-3 

Shri Suprakas Mookerjee, Severn Villa, Coleham Head, Shrewsbury (England) . . • . " 

Shri Madras Soundararajan Soimdararajan, 1-B Vellalai Lane, West Avanimoola Street, Madurai 
(S. India) 

Shri Dinker Shivabhai Patel, Ambalal Ilirachand’s Block, Near Pritamnagar, Ahraedabad-0 
Shri Vamandae Kanhaiyalal Agrawal, CK 68/10 Ash-Bhairo, Varanasi 

Shri Ravi Bahadur, Accountant, Mahindra Owen Ltd , Plot No 148, Bombay-Poona Road, Pimpri 

Shri M S Jambuvenkataraman , o/o. Messrs. Needle Industries (1) Private Ltd., Post Box No. 21, 
Ootacamund (Nilgiris). 


B. R. MALHOTRA, Acting Beoretary. 


126 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


l Part 


New Delhi- 1. the 7th February 1962. 

No. 8-CA(l)/ 14/61-62. — In pursuance of clause (3) 
of regulation 10 of the Chartered Accountants 


Regulations, 1949, it is hereby notified that \ 
Certificates of Practice issued to the following me 
hers shall stand cancelled during the period sho 
against their names, namely: — 


Serial Membership 
No. No. 

1 3558 


Name aad Adreee, 


Period during which the Oort 
fioates shall stand cancelled 


Shri Hem Puthak, A. C. A., 116/1/1 Mahatma Gandhi Hoad, first floor 2-1-1962 to 30-6-1962. 
Calcutta- 7. 


4234 


Shri Hojmady Sunder Pujary, A. C. A., 4th floor, 17th Raghunath Dadaji 
Street, Fort, Bombaty-1. 


-1-1962 to 30-6-1962. 


B. R. MALHOTRA, Acting Se 


New Delhi- 1, the 24th January 1962. 

No. 8-CA(l)/ 13/61-62.— In pursuance of clause (3) 
of regulation 10 of the Chartered Accountants 


Regulations, 1949, it is hereby notified that i 
Certificates of Practice issued to the followi 
members shall stand cancelled during the peri 
shown against their names, namely: — 


Serial Membership Name and Address. Feriod during which the Port 

No. No. ficates shall stand cancelled 


1 

2 


3 


4 ( 


356 Shri Jehangir Dhunjibhoy Surti, F.C.A., Jamshed Mansion, Tardoo, Bombay- 7 1-4-61 to 30-6-61. 

2061 Shri A. Kesavan, A. O. A., Messrs, Khan n a and Annadhanam, Chartered Ac- 8-12-61 to 28-2*92- 

countan t, B7/1X1 Asaf Ali Hoad, New Delhi- 1. 

3353 Shri Chandrakant Rikhabdas Shah, A. C. A., Mangrol Mansion, 4th flloor, 1-1-62 to 30-6-62. 

Room No. 51, Gunbow Street, Bombay- 1. 

6504 Shri E. Rarnalingoeware Sarma, A. C. A., c/o. Shri V. V. S. Sastry, Flat -4, Block 1, 1-11-61 to 30-6-62. 

Central Government Officers’ Quarters, Purnadas Road, Calcutta- 29. 


B. R. MALHOTRA, Acting Sc 



Ut um* d No. C207 


©IjF 





dazrtt? 


SADHA 7] 


THURSDAY, JUNE 28, 1962 


[ SAKA 1884 


PART IB. — Educational Notices 


LEADERS’ 'SURVEY EXAMINATION BOARD, 
BENGAL ENGINEERING COLLEGE 

Dated, June 2, 1962. 

The following pleader has been declared to have 
assed the Pleaders’ Survey Examination prescribed 
i Government of West Bengal notification No. 3888J, 
ated the 18th April 1938, as amended under Govern- 
lent order No. 6636J,‘dated the 5th August 1938, 
eld in February 1962: 

CLASS II. 

Name and Court in which practising 
* 

Shri Arun Kumar Sen, District Judge’s Court, 
Midnapore. * 

A. C. ROY, 

Secretary, Pleaders’ Survey Examination 
Board, and Principal, Bengal 
Engineering College. 


PRESIDENCY COLLEGE, CALCUTTA 
MEMORANDUM 

020.— 3rd /7th April 1962.— The Managing 
ommittee of the Hindu School, Calcutta, is recon- 
tituted for a period of 3 years with effect from the 
st April 1962 as follows: 

(1) Principal, Presidency College, Calcutta — Presi- 
dent (ex-officio). 

(2) Headmaster, Hindu School, Calcutta — Vice- 
President and Secretary (ex-officio). 

(3) Shri Kamalapati De, Assistant Headmaster, 
Hfhdu School, Calcutta — Teachers’ representa- 
tive. 


(4) Dr. Nalini Ranjan Konar, M.D. (Cal.), 

M.R.C.P. (Lond.) — Representative of the 

parents and guardians of the pupils. 

(5) Dr. Pratap Chandra Chunder, M.A., L.L.B., 
D.Phil., J.P., M.L.A. — Representative of the 
parents and guardians of the pupils. 

(6) Shri Santosh Kumar Roy, M.Sc., Professor of 
Geology, Presidency College, Calcutta — An 
officer other than an inspecting officer of the 
Education Department. 

S.K. BASU, Principal. 


DIRECTORATE OF BOILERS, WEST BENGAL 

West Bengal Boiler Operation Engineers 9 Proficiency 
Examination. 

NOTICE 

It is notified for general information that the 
next proficiency Examination of Boiler Operation 
Engineers under the West Bengal Boiler Operation 
Engineers’ Examination Rules, 1960, will be held 
in July 1962. The intending candidates must submit 
their applications in the prescribed form, available 
from the Directorate of Boilers, West, Bengal, 
1 Hastings Street, 8th floor, Calcutta-1, to the Chief 
Inspector of Boilers, West Bengal, at the aforesaid 
address by June 12, 1962. Fee (Rs. 40.00) is to be 
deposited into the West Bengal Treasury under the 
head “XXXII — Miscellaneous Social and Develop- 
mental Organisations — Labour and Employment — 
Fees for the Inspection of Steam Boilers”. 

S. C. ROY, 

Chief Inspector of Boilers and 
Chairman, Board of Examiners. 


170 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUNE 28, 1962 


[Part i; 


EDUCATION DIRECTORATE 

The undermentioned candidates are declared to 
have passed the Nursery, Infant and Primary (Pre- 
Basic and Basic) Teachers’ Training Examination, 
1962, from the under-graduate Teachers’ Training 
Department attached to the Gokhale Memorial Girls’ 
School and College and the Chittaranjan Teachers’ 
Training Institute, Calcutta. 

N.B. — (i) Candidates securing 40 per cent, marks 
in the aggregate are placed in the third grade, 
50 per cent, marks in the aggregate in the 
second grade, 65 per cent, marks in the aggre- 
gate as well as 50 per cent, marks in the 
practical subjects in the first grade. 

(ii) The letter affixed to the name of the candidate 
indicates that she has secured 1st grade (i.e., 
60 per cent, of the marks) in the subject con- 
cerned and D in bracket after a letter indicates 
distinction (i.e., 75 per cent, of the marks) in 
that subject. 

PLH. — Principles and History of Education. 

Ch. — Child Psychology. 

Hy. — School Organisation and Hygiene. 

M. — General and Special Methods of Teaching. 

Pr.— Practical Subjects. 

S. — Subsidiary Subjects. 

FIRST GRADE 
(In order of merit) 

Roll No. name of candidate and name of 
Institution. 

3 Kamala Das, Ch., S., Pr. (D), Gokhale Memo- 
rial Girls’ School and College (Teachers’ 
Training Department), Calcutta. 

9 Purabi Choudhuri, PLH., Hy.. M., Pr., S., 
Chittaranjan Teachers’ Training Institute, 
Calcutta. 


SECOND GRADE 
(Serially arranged) 

Roll No. name of candidate and name of 
Institution. 

1 Rama Basu, M., Pr., Gokhale Memorial Girls’ 
School and College (Teachers’ Training Depart- 
ment), Calcutta. 

2 Sadhana Basu, Gokhale Memorial Girls’ School 
and College (Teachers’ Training Department), 
Calcutta. 

4 Shefali Datta, Pr., Gokhale Memorial Girls’ 
School , and College (Teachers* Training 
Department), Calcutta. 

5 Sulata Majumdar, Pr., Gokhale Memorial 

Girls’ School and College (Teachers’ Training 
Department), Calcutta. 

6 Bithika Thakurta, Pr., Gokhale Memorial 

Girls’ School and College (Teachers’ Training 
Department), Calcutta. 

7 Aditi Chakravarty, Hy., Pr., Chittaranjan 
Teachers’ Training Institute, Calcutta. 

8 Nilima Chakravarty, Pr., Chittaranjan 
Teachers’ Training Institute, Calcutta. 




Roll No. name of candidate and name of 
Institution. 

10. Suvra Dev, Ch., Hy., M., Pr., Chittaranjaj 
Teachers’ Training Institute, Calcutta. 

11 Hashi Ghosh Dastidar, Chittaranjan Teachers 
Training Institute, Calcutta. 

12 Sabita Ghosal, Pr., Chittaranjan Teachers 
Training Institute, Calcutta. 

13 Shephali Mukherjee, Chittaranjan Teachers 
Training Institute, Calcutta. 

14 Amita Roy, Pr. (D), Chittaranjan Teachers’ 
Training Institute, Calcutta. 

15 Geeta Ray, Pr., Chittaranjan Teachers’ Train- 
ing Institute, Calcutta. 

16 Sukla Sen, Chittaranjan Teachers’ Training 
Institute, Calcutta. 

THIRD GRADE 
Nil. 


M. BOSE, 

Chief Inspector, Women’s Education, 
West Bengal. 


SURVEY EDUCATION ADVISORY -BOARD, 
WEST BENGAL 

Results of the Junior Surveyors’ Examination, 1961 
WEST BENGAL SURVEY INSTITUTE, BANDEL 
(In order of merit) 

SI. No. Roll No. Name. 


FIRST DIVISION 

1 42 Shri Pabitra Kumar Das. 

2 24 Shri Yukham Sarat Chandra 

Singh. 

3 25 Shri Sapam Manik Chand Singh. 

4 70 Shii Subhas Chandra .Bose. 

5 14 Shri Madon Mohan De. 

6 12 Shri Sailendra Nath Mandal. 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 
9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 
19 


SECOND DIVISION 

21 Shri Deba Prasad Chatto 

padhayay. 

8 Shri Ranendra Lai Kumar. 

32 Shri Manoranjan Maiti. 

17 Shri Sankari Prosad Ray. 

5 Shri Nepal Chandra Bhaumik. 

33 Shri Shobha Kant Lai Kama. 

38 Shri Ananta Dev Bandopadhya$» 

37 Shri Amal Kanti Ghosh. 

3 Shri Manoranjan A dak. 

7 Shri Krishna Ballav Talujcder. 

6 Shri Binoy Krishna Datta. 

2 Shri Susanta Kumar ’ Bhatta 

charyya. 

39 Shri Dipak Kumar Chakraborty. 

18 Shri Kamalesh Chakraborty. 

31 Shri Pranab Datta. 

16 Shri Jay Deb Ojha. 

22 Shri Santosh Kumar Chakra 

borty. 

15 Shri Suresh Chandra Mondak 

48 Shri Niranjan Bhowmik (Private 



8. No, Roll No. Name. 

THIRD DIVISION 


1 

40 

Shri Subhash Chandra Ghosh. 

2 

4 

Shri Amalcndu Ghosh. 

3 

28 

Shri Narayan Krishna Nhuchhe 
Pradhan. 

4 

49 

Shri Lakshman Chandra Maji 
(Private). 

5 

35 

Shri Yamuna Prasad Upadhyaya. 

6 

43 

Shri Shitesh Chandra Bhadra 

R° y \. 

7 

47 

Shri Ajit Kumar Bhattacharyya 
(Private). 

8 

27 

Shri Lai Mohan Biswas. 

9 

51 

Shri Sajani Kanta Ghosh (Private) 


B. N. CHATTERJEE, Secretary, and 
Deputy Director of Surveys, West Bengal. 

Results of the Senior Surveyors’ Examination, 1961 
WEST BENGAL SURVEY INSTITUTE, BANDEL 
(In order of merit) 

SI. No. Roll Not Name. 


SI. No. Roll No. Name. 

SECOND DIVISION 


1 

20 

Shri Ashoke Kumar Ghosh. 

2 

32 

Shri Some Nath Zeminder. 

3 

14 

Shri Gour Chandra Paul. 

4 

37 

Shri Pralyot Kumar Mukho- 
padhyav. 

5 

41 

Shri Dasarath Chandra Das 

* (Private). 

6 

23 

Shri Tapan Kumar Chaudhuri. 

7 

6 

Shri Robindra Nath Haidar. 

8 

7 

Sk. Noor Alam. 

9 

5 

Shri Anil Kumar Biswas. 

10 

21 

Shri Bijay Narayan Bhattacharyya. 

1 1 

13 

Shri Banshi Dhar Chakrabartty. 

12 

9 

Shri Amiycndu Bikash Chakra- 
vorty. 

13 

26 

Shri Jadab Chandra Mandal. 

14 

I 

Shri Tusar Kanti Chaudhuri. 


FIRST DIVISION 

1 27 - Shri Ajoy Kumar Mukherjee. 

2 19 Shri Sisir Kumar Deb Majumdar. 

3 35 Shri Sanjay Mailik. 

4 31 Shri Rabindra Nath Zeminder. 

5 10 Shri Amar Nath Chatterjee. 

6 15 Shri Pradip Kumar Sanyal. 

7 29 Shri Pabitra Roy. 

8 18 Shri Kanchun Mukherjee. 

9 36 Shri Bisnumoy Chatterjee. 

0 22 Shri Bimal Chandra Chakra- 

i>ortty. 

4 Shri Swapan Kumar Sarkar. 


15 

38 

Shri Bimal Chandra Saha. 

16 

28 

Shri Samir Kumar Saha. 

17 

30 

Shri Santi Pada Debnath. 

18 

2 

Shri Kashi Nath Do. 



PASS 

1 

11 

Shri Subimal Kanti Roy. 

2 

34 

Shri Paresh Nath Bid. 


B. N. CHATTERJEE, Secretary, and 
Deputy Director of Surveys, West Bengal. 








