JtEGISTERED No. D. MX 


Uhe (B&zttte jff of Inlbia 

«>)KM 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 4l NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, JANUARY 23, i 9 ISo/MAGHA 3, i88x 


NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazette) of India Extraordinary were published upl* the 14th 
January, i960 : — 


Issue No. and date Issued by Subject 

No. 


5 S. O. 103, dated 
January, i960. 


nth Ministry of Lab tur and 
Employment. 


Constituting an Industrial Tri- 
bunal at Dhanbad and ap- 
pointment of Shri G. Palit as its 
Presiding Officer. 


6 S. O. 104, dated nth 
January, i960. 


Ministry of Information 
and Broadcasting. 


Approval of Films specified therein. 


7 S. O. 105, dated 12th 
January, i960. 


Ministry of Gunmerce 
and Industry. 


Granting recognition to the India* 
Exchange Limited,, Amritsar, 
for 3 years. 


8 3 , O. 106, dated 13th 
January, i960. 


Ministry of Scientific 
Research and Cultural 
Affairs. 


Amendment in the Indian Copy- 
right Order, 195S. 


9 S. O. 165, dated 14th 
January, ,1960. 


Ministry of Commerce 
and Industry. 


Granting recognition to the spicea 
and Oilseeds Exchange Ltd., 
Sangli for 3 years in respect of 
forward contracts in groundnut 
Kernels, 


10 S. O. 166, dated 8th 
January, 1960. , 


Ministry of Steel, Mines 
and Fuel, 


Giving notice to acquire 
specified therein. 


landB 


S. O. 167, dated 12th 
January, 1960. 


Do. 


Specifying further one year withi* 
which the Central Government 
may give notice of Its intention 
to acquire lands specified therein. 


S. O. 16B, dated izth Do. 

January, i960. 


Specifying further one year within 
which the Central Government 
may give notice of its intention 
to acquire lands specified therein. 


S. O. 169, dated 12th 
January, i960. 


Do. 


Specifying further one year within 
which the Central Government 
may give notice of its intention 
to acquire lands specified therein. 


( 305 ) 


306 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; JANtJARV 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [1*ART * 


Issue No. and elate Issued bv Subject 

No. 


. O. 170, dated isrh 

Ministry of Steel 

Januaiy, igfto. 

Mines and Fuel. 

O. 171, dated 14th 

Do. 

January, i960. 



Specifying further one year within 
which the Central Government 
may give notice of it r intention 
to acquire land specified therein. 

Specifying further one year within 
which the Central Government 
may give notice of its uiLcntion 
to acquire lands specified therein. 


Copies #f the Gaznttan ktraordinary mentioned above will be nupolled on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents shnuld be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes. 


PART H— Section 3 -Sub-section (li) 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administrations of Union Territories). 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, the 14th January, 1960 

S.O. 174. — In pursuance of Section 106 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951 (43 of 1951), the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order pronoumed 
on the 30th October, 1959, by the Election Tribunal, Shahjahanpur. 

BEFORE THE ELECTION TRIBUNAL SHAHJAHANPUR 
Frbsent: 

S Khadim Ali, H.J.S. Memher Election Tribunal. 

Ejection Petition No. 476 of 1957 

Sri Niranjan Singh Deo aged 60 years, 

s/o Thakur Ratan Singh, resident of 
village Nir, Dist. Hardoi— Petitioner. 

Vs. 

1 Sri Chheda Lai 

r/o Whiteganj., Hardoi 

2. Sri Sheo Din r/o village and P.O. Gopamau, Tahsil and District Hardoi 

3. Sri Kindar Lai, r/o Mohalla Idrlsganj, Hardoi. 

4 Sri Srish Chandra Agarwal, r/o Whiteganj, Hardoi — Respondents 


JUDGMENT 

This election petition relates to the general seat of the double-member House *f 
People Hardoi Constituency No. 363 which comprises of six Uttar Pradesh Legisla- 
tive Assembly Constituencies Nos 333. 334, 336 to 338 and 349. It arises out of fh® 
last general election in which voting took place on 25th and 28th February, 1957 
and 3rd, 9th, 12th and 14th March 1957 in different Assembly Constituencies and 
the result was declared on 25th March 1957 after counting of votes on 20th and 
25th March 1957 It was filed on 9th May, 1957 before the Under Secretary of the 
Election Commission of India by Mohan Lai Varma who- was duly authorized by 
the Petitioner to present It. The Chief Election Commissioner appointed Sri Jagdish 



307 


&EC, 8 (li)] THE r.A/F/ITE OI INDIA: JAMAR', 23, 1960/ MAG HA 3, 18H| 


MIsra District and Sessions Judge, Hardoi as Member Election Tribunal on 6th 
June, 1957 but accepted the resignation of Sn Jagdish Misra and appointed me as 
M 'inber Election Tribunal on 22nd May 1958. 

Nir-tman Singh Deo was put up by Jan Sangh party while Respt. No. 1 Chheda 
Lai was set up by Congress party for the general seat Respondent No 2 Shoo Din 
was set up by Jan Sangh party while Respondent No. J Kindar Lai was set up by 
Congress party as schedule caste candidate. The Respondent No. 4 Srlsh Ch mdra 
Agarwal was also a candidate for the general seat but he withdrew from the con- 
test. He is nephew of Chhed i Lai Respondent No. 1. Chheda Lai secured 235231, 
votes while Niranjan Singh Deo secured 231763; She i Din secured 191730 votes/ 
Kindar Lai secured 189232 votes and 43430 votes were rejected. 

The Petitioner has set out grounds in clauses (A) to (B) of para 6 of he Peti- 
tion for the election of Chheda Lai being void and liable to be set aside. Apart 
from having the election of Respondent No I declared void the Petitioner has alg* 
claimed the relief of being declared as duly elected The Petition has annexed t* 
it .Schedules A to E of which Schedules A and B relate to ground (A) while Sche- 
dules C to E relate to grounds (B) to (D) respectively of its para 6 

The Respondent No. 1 fi'ed written statement on 22nd July, 1957 and (‘untested' 
all the mounds set up against him. Further he pleaded that the' Petition is liable 
to be dismissed under section 90(31 of the R. P Act for non-compliance of the 
Provisions of Section 117 of the said Act in view of the deposit of security made 
by the Petitioner being not valid He also pleaded that the petition is harred hv 
time and that the petition is not legally maintainable as it was not presented bv 
prope" person to proper authority. 

Respondent No, 1 served recriminatory charges on the Petitioner on 17th July. 
1957 The recriminatory petition was accompanied by Schedules A to G. The 
Petitioner dented the said charges in his written statement filed on 29th July 1967 

Respondent Nos 2 to 4 filed written statements on 22nd July 1957 out of them 
Respondent No. 2 has supported the Petitioner While the others have supported 
the Respondent No. 1. The Respondent No 4 ha, further pleaded that he is an 
unnecessary party and is entitled to special <.o 1 

The pleading ol’ the parties have given tise to the following issues: — 

1 Is the deposit of security made by the petitioner valid? Is the election peti- 
tion liable to be dismissed under section 90(3) of the Act No 43 of 1951 for non- 
compliance with the provisions of section 117 of the said AcD 

2 Is the election petition time-barred? 

8 (a) Was the election petition presented by the proper person? 

(b> Was the election petition presented not to the proper authority 1 ’ 

4 (a) Was Babu.Ram Gupta Panchavat Inspector Kachhona circle Tahsil 
Sandila, District Hardoi, from before the notification of the election under section 
14 of the R. P. Act? 

4 <b) Did Sri Babu Ram Gupta arrange meetings as alleged in Schedule A with 
the consent of Respondent No. 1 and were they also attended by him and did Sri 
Babu Ram Gupta ask Pradhans of the villages given in Schedule A to anrhov/ 
Influence the voters to vote for Respondents 1 and 3 as alleged by the petitioner’’ 

5. (a) Did Sri Balm Rom Quota, with the consent of Rc.-oondoni No 1 pet can- 
vassing done with a view to influence voters through official agency between 29th 
January, 1957 and 19th March 1957. and did he Interfere with the electors in the 
free exercise of their franchise with the direct help of Pradhans of various Gaon 
S«bhas mentioned in Schedule B of the petition? 

5 (b) Was Sn Babu Ram Gupla all through canvassing and soliciting, votes for 
Respondents Nos 1 and 3 as alleged and detailed in Schedule C? 

0. (a) Were Sri Aizaz Rasool ail Sri Ram Chandra agents and workers of 
Respondents 1 and 3 as alleged in para 6(c) of the petition? 

fi(b) Did Sri Nawab Aizaz Rasool, Sri Sn'sh Chandra Agarwal and Sri Ram 
Obandra hire conveyance with the consent and in the knowledge of Respondents 1 
and 3 ns alleged in para 6(c) read with schedule D of the petition? 



308 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 5, 1881 


[Pait IJ 


7, (*) Did Jagdish Prasad and Shanti Swaroop mentioned in schedule E belong 
to the class of persons in the service of Government given in clause F of sub- 
section 7 of section 123 of R.P. Act? 

7. (b) Did Respondent No. 1 obtain and procure the help of Jagdish Prasad, 
Day* Shankar and Shanti Swarup for the furtherance of the prospects of his 
election as alleged in para 6(d) read with schedule E of the petition? 


8. Would the petitioner have obtained the majority of valid votes but for tha 
vote* alleged to have been obtained by the Respondent No, I by corrupt practices 
mentioned in paras 8(a) to 6(d) of the petition? 

9. (a) Is the respondent No. 4 an unnecessary party? 

9. (b) Is he entitled to special costs from the petitioner as claimed by him? 

10. To what relief if any, is the petitioner entitled? 

11~ Has the petitioner, his workers, and supporters been guilty of gratification 
as detailed in Schedule A attached to the recriminatory petition and its better 
particulars filed on 9th August 1958? 

12. Had the petitioner and his workers and supporters been guilty of exercising 
undue influence as detailed in Schedule B attached to the recriminatory petition 
and its better particulars filed on 9th August 1958? 

13. Did the petitioner engage and procure vehicles for carrying voters as 
alleged In para 1(e) of the recriminatory petition and detailed in Sch. D and it* 
better particulars filed on 9th August 1958? 

14. Did the officers specified in Schedule E attached to the recriminatory 
petition work for the petitioner at the instance of the petitioner as alleged in 
para 1(g) of the recriminatory petition? 

15. Did th* petitioner not maintain account properly as alleged in para 1(h) 

of the recriminatory petition and schedule F relating to it? If so, its effect? 

10. Did members of niyae Panchayat Indirectly work and canvass for th* 
petitioner as alleged in para l(i) of the recriminatory petition and detailed i* 
Schedule G relating to it? If so its effect? 

Issues 1 to 3(b) were framed as preliminary issues on 9th August 1957 and 
were decided In favour 'of the petitioner on 3rd March 1958. Subsequently issue* 
4(a) to 5(b) were framed on 18th March 1058; issues 6(a) to 10 were framed 
•n 10th April 1958 and the rest were framed on 4th September 1958. ■ 

Findings 

Issue 4(a) to 6(b), 8 and 11 to 16 

There Is no evidence In support of these Issues. They have not even beem 

pressed in the course of arguments. Each of these issues is. therefore decided 

in th? negative. 

Issue No. 7(a) 

It is stated in Schedule E(iv) that Shanti Swarup was serving under th* 
State of Uttar Pradesh as Panchayat Secretary of Pihani circle at the time of th* 
election. This fact was admitted in oral pleadings by learned counsel for Res- 
pondent No. 1 on 9th April 1958. Learned counsel for petitioner has specifically 
conceded in the course of' arguments that Shanti Swarup does not belong to th* 
Hass o£ persons specified in clause (f) of Sub-section (7) of section 123 of R.P. Act. 

It is stated in Schedule E(l) that Jagdish Prasad is employed in the Revenu* 
Collection Department of District Hardoi, This fact was admitted by the learned 
counsel for Respondent No. 1, in oral pleadings on 9th April 1958. Subsequent 
to that admission the learned counsel for petitioner stated that Jagdish Prasad 
was employed as a peon in the said department. This fact has been conceded 
by the learned counsel tor respondent No. 1 in the course of arguments. Ther* 
is also ample evidence in support of it. It consists of the testimony of Bakhtan 
Singh, Mahendrapal Singh, Prabhu, Shafiq Khan, Azmat Ullah, Mohammad Raflq, 
Waris Ali. Ghulam Nabi, Khanna and Dwarka (P Ws. 2i, 22, 34 to 36," 38, 4t 
41. 43 and 44). They are corroborated by Sana Ullah, Azhar Husain, Chhote 
Lai, Shyam Sundar, Tilak Ram. Ram Sagar and Srlsh Chandra Agrawal (R.Ws. 24, 
35, 45, 47. 48, 67 and 72). 



30 * 


Sec. 8 (II)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 33, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 


It has now to be determined if Jagdish Prasad belongs to the class of persoma 
specified in section 123(7) (f) of the R.P. Act which reads as follows:— 

“Revenue officers including village accountants, such as Patwaris, Lekhpals, 
Talatls, Karnams and the like but excluding other village officers,” 

It has been argued by the learned counsel for the petitioner that Jagdish 
Prasad was ‘revenue officer’, though not ‘village accountant’ in view of being 
employed as collection peon for realization of rent due to Government from 
agricultural land-holders. In my opinion that contention must prevail havina 
regard to the definition of ‘revenue officer’ in section 4(9) of the U.P, Land 
Revenue Act which reads as follows: — 

“Revenue officer means any officer employed under this Act in maintain- 
ing revenue records, or in the business of the land revenue.” 

Jagdish Prasad would be a Revenue officer according to the above definition, 
because, there, is evidence to the eilect that he helped Collection Amin in 
the realization of rent due to Government for rural agricultural land and rent 
(not revenue) is realizable for such land after the abolition of Zamindarl by 
U.P. Land Reforms and Zamindari Abolition Act. It has been argued by the 
learned counsel for respondent No. 1 that Jagdish Prasad cannot be a revenue 
officer for tho purposes of Sec. 123 (7) (f ) of the R.P. Act as he' is not an officer 
of the class mentioned therein viz. patwari, lekhpal, talati and karnam. I »e» 
no force in that argument as the words ‘such as patwaris, lekhpals, talatls, kar- 
nams and the like’ in the said section ard merely descriptive of the words 
‘revenue officers including village accountants’ and do not exhaust the list of 
‘revenue officers including village accountants’. It has also been specifically so 
held by their Lordships of the Supreme Court in K. C. Deobhanj V. Raghunath 
Misra, (195 9 Supreme Court 589 at 596). 

For the above reasons I hold that Jagdish Prasad but not Shanti Swarup 
belongs to that class of persons In the service of Government who are specified 
in Section 123(7) (f) of the R.P. Act and decide the issue accordingly. 

Issue No. 7(b) 

This issue is based on the allegations contained in para 6(D) read with 
Schedule E of the petition which are to the effect that the respondent No. t 
obtained and procured and attempted to obtain the help of persons serving 
under the State of Uttar Pradesh for the furtherenCe of the prospects of hia 
election as detailed below: 

(1) Jagdish Prasad, employed in the staff of the Revenue Collection Depart- 

ment of Hardol district was. appointed polling agent at Junior High School Plhani 
polling station for 9th March 1957 and worked as such. He also worked and 
canvassed and solicited votes for Respondents Nos. 1 and 3 In village Bazidnagar, 
Karawan, Sahitinagar, Arua and Mansoor Nagar between 1st and 9th March 

1957. In the better particulars furnished by the petitioner on 19th September 

1958 it has been specified that Jagdish Prasad canvassed > at Bazidnagar on 
1st March 1957, at Karawan on 2nd March 1957, at Sahtl Nagar on 4th March 
1957, at Mansoor Nagar on 6th -March 1957 and at Arua on 7th March 1957, 
Ext. 35 dated 9th March 1957 has been relied for the appointment of Jagdish 
Prasad as polling agent. 

(2) Daya Shankar. Lekhpal In Tahsll Shahbad of Hardol district, was appointed 

polling agent for Hansbarauli polling station for 3rd March 1957 and worked 

as such. He also worked and solicited Votes for Respondents Nos. 1 and 3 in 

villages Burhagaon, Razidnagar, Gnpamau and Jarauli, between 25th February 
1957 and 9th March 1957 with their knowledge and consent. It was subsequently 
specified in better particulars furnished by the petitioner on 19th September 1858 
that Daya Shankar canvassed at Burhagaon on 25th February 1957, at Jarauli 
on lfitli February 1957, at. Gopamau on 1st March 1957 and at Bazidnagar on 
7th March 1957. It was also stated therein that the respondents Nos. 1 and 3 
had given their consent to him at Plhani on 20th February 1957 to work and 
canvass for them. They knew very well about the work done by him as they 
gathered information when they toured the said villages. Ext 5 dated 1st March 
1957 has been relied for tile appointment of Daya Shankar as polling agent. 

(3) Shanti Swarup, employed as Panrjiayat Secretary Plhani circle, was 
appointed polling agent and worked as such on 9th March 1957 at Pihani Junior 
High School polling station. He also canvassed and solicited votes for respon- 
dents Nos, 1 and 3 with their consent from 25th February 1957, to 9th March, 



3io 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 19G0/MACHA 3, 1881 [Part 11 


1957. It was subsequently specified In better particulars furnished by the peti- 
tioner on 19th September 1958 that Shanti Swamp worked at F'andarwa on 
27th Febiuary 1957 and at Dahalia on 5th March 1957. It was also stated .therein 
that the respondents Nos. 1 and 3 had given their consent to him on 20th 
Fcbiuaiy 1957 at Piham to work and canvass for them. Ext. 36 dated 9th March 
195? has been relied for the appointment of Shahti Swarup as polling agent. 

It ma,' be noted at the outset that the allegations about Shanti Swarup are 
of little avail and have not been relied although evidence has been led in 
support ol them as it has been conceded that he docs not belong to the class of 
officers mentioned in Sec. 12317) ol’ the R.P. Act. The evidence on the point 
may also be noted. Sri Kishan and Jivvan Lai (P.Ws. 56 and 57) have stated 
about Resp. No. 1 having asked Shanti Swarup to canvass votes for Congress 
in his circle, while Nazim Husain, Aqa Ali, Nawab Ali and Dhanl Ram (P.Ws. 
25 to 28) have stated about Shanti Swarup having worked In Dahella; Raghunath 
Singh, Aqil Khan, Lezam Singh Jhabhu Singh and Vishunath Singh (P.Ws. 29 
to 33 ) have stated about Shanti Swarup having worked in Pandarwa; M. Y. Khan, 
R. A. Gregornh Pratap Narain, Waiahat Ali and Magan Nath (P.Ws. 45 46, 54, 
aS and 59) have been examined to prove the signature of the respondent No. 1 

on Ihe polling Agency from (Ex 36) by which Shanti Swarup is said to have 

been appointed polling agent; and, Shaflq Khan, Azmat Ullah, Maiku Lai Moham- 
mad Rafiq, Waiis All, (fhulam Nnbi and Mohammad Samj (P.Ws 35 to 38 and 
40 to 42 j have slated about Shanti Swarup having acted as polling agent at 

the Junior T-Iigh School Piyani polling centre. On the other hand the Respondent 

No. 1 (R.W. 75) has staled that he bad not asked Shanti Swarup to canvass for 
hhn or Congress; Rum Gharan and Manna Lai fR.Ws. 63 and 04) have given 
evidence in rebuttal of Shanti Swarup having worked in Dahelia; Abid Ali (RW. 
05) has given evidence in rebuttal of Shanti Swarup having worked in Pandarwa. 
SRyama Charan Varma, Hari Singh, ,T. P Gupta, P. R. Mahant, M. R. Mehta. 
Hon Lai Wunrn and Respt. Nos. 4 and 1 (R.Ws, "39, 49 to 52, 57, 72 and 75) hav« 
been examined in rebuttal of the signature on the polling agency form (Ex 36) 
being ol Urn Respondent No. 1; the Respts. 4 and 1 have al-o stated that Shanti 
Swamp hid not been appointed polling agent by the Respt. No. 1; and, Abdul 
Hm and the Respt. Nos. 4 and 1 (R.Ws. 25, 72 and 75) have stated in rebuttal of 
Shanti Swarup having acted as polling agent. 

The evidence concerning Jagdlsh Prasad and Daya Shankar may now be 
i onsirtei cd Before doing so the following facts may be noted: — 

It has not been specified anywhere In the pleadings bv the Petitioner how, 
-where and when the Resp. No. 1 had authorized Jagdlsh Piasad to work ana 
canvass for him and came to know about Jagdlsh Prasad having worked for 
him. It has also not been specified in the pleading where the Respondent No. I 
had appointed Jagdish and Daya SbankRr his potlinj agents for the Junior 
High School Pihani and Hansbarauli polling centres respectively It has been 
stated in better particulars filed by the Petitioner on 19th May 1958 that Day* 
Shankar had canvassed for, the Respondents 1 and 3 at Jareli on 18th February 
1957 although he had stated in Para (iii) of Schedule E annexed to the Petition 
that Daya Shankar had worked and solicited votes for the Respondents 1 and 3 
in Ja~eli and other villages from 5th February 1957 to 9th March 1957. There 
is no evidence about Jagdlsh Prasad canvassing and soliciting votes in villages 
Razid Nagar, Sahti Nagar, Arua and about Daya Shankar working and soliciting 
votes in Gopamau. Daya Shankar has been admitted to be lekhpal in oral 
pleadings on 9th April 1958 by the learned counsel for the Respondent No. 1 
and as such must be an officer of the class specified in Section 123(7) (f) of the 
HP Act., 

The evidence about Jagdlsh Prasad and Daya Shankar being authorized by 
the respondent No. 1 to work and canvass for him may first be considered. It 
consists of the testimony of Sri Kishan and Jiwan Lai (PWs. 56 and 57). Their 
evidence is to the effect that 15-20 days before polling the Respt. No. 1 came 
accompanied by Kmdar Lai Respt. No. 3, Daya Shankar and motor driver and 
after appreciating the good work done by Daya Shankar asked Jagdlsh Prasad 
and Shanti to work and canvass for him In their respective centres. They have 
made conflicting statements about the conveyance in which the Respt. No. 1 
and his companions had xome and about the exact place where the Respt No. 1 
talked with Jagdlsh Prasad and Shanti Swaruo But the conflict is not material. 

Sri Kishan has stated that the Respt No. 1 and his companions had come 
in a car and had talk at the public road near Shanti Swarup’s bouse whereas 
Jiwanlal has stated that the Respt. No. 1 and his companions had come in a jeep 

and had talk in Shanti Swarup’s court-yard at a distance of 20 paces from 



J*c, 5 (ii)] ' THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1060/MAGHA 3, 1881 3 II 


Shanti Swarup’s door and of 30 paces from the public road. Whether the con- 
veyance was car or jeep Is of little consequence as there is little difference 
between the two and the vil lasers may not even appreciate that difference. The 
exact place of talk if also of little- consequence as it was near Shanti Swarup’s 
house according to both of them. 

In spite' of the contradiction? being immaterial the evidence of these witnesses 
is unworthy of credence as they are men of meagre means and could be influenced 
by Hamid All who could have a personal grievance against the Respt. No. 1 and 
could also be induced against him by Mohan Lai '/anna whq is bitterly against 
him and has Intimate friendship with the petitioner. 

Sri Kishan admittedly earns Rs. 2/- to Rs. 3/- only per day while Jiwan L»l 
earns his livelihood by tuition and gets Rs. 2/- per month and shave on alter- 
nate days for teaching son of a barber. Admittedly both of them reside in 
Mohalla Misrana of Pihani ol which the abadi belongs to Hamid Ali according 
to them. Jiwan Lai has admitted that Hamid Ali is a big zamindar and has 
considerable influence. He is corroborated on the point by Azmat Ullah (P.W. 
36) The Respt. No. 1 has also admitted that llamid Ali is an influential man. 

flamed Ali could have a personal grievance against the Respt. No. 1 as he 
was removed .from Presidentship of the Pihani Municipal Board on no-confldence 
motion being ' passed aghinst him and his rival Zafar Husain became President 
on account of the Respondent No. 1 not having supported him. His resentment 
is evident from the faci that he even resigned from Congress which he and 
Zafar Husain had both joined after 1947. Aqa Ali (P.W. 26) has stated that 
Hamid Ah and Zafar Husain belong to rival parties while Sri Kishan (P.W. 56) 
has stated that Hamid Ali and Zafar Husain are the heads of the rival parties 
Sri Kishan has further stated that Hamid Ali was formerly; President of the 
Pihani Municipal Board, but was removed on a motion .of no-confledencc being 
passed and Zafar Husain was elected President in his place. He is corroborated 
by Shaflq Khan (P.W 35) who has stated that Hamid Ali was elected President 
of the Municipal Board in 1953 but ceased to function as such in 1955 when 
Zafar Husain was elected President. He is also corroborated by Azhar Husain 
alias Nawabu (R.W. 35) who has stated -that Hamid Ali resigned from the Congress 
when 110 -conildence motion -was passed against him on account of the Respon- 
dent No. 1 having not lent his support to him and that Zafar Husain worked 
as president for lj-lj years, although both Hamid Ali and Zafar Husain had 
joined Congress atter 1947. 

The respondent No. 1 has admitted that Hamid All was elected' President of 
Pihani Municipal Board in 1953 on Congress ticket and continued as such till 
he resigned after no-confidence motion being passed against him at the instance 
of Zaiar Husain who was then senior Vice-President and subsequently acted 
as. President. He has denied to have advised Zafar Husain to move the no- 
1 onfidence motion but there is possibility of such advice having been given by 
him, although he and his admitted nephew and pairokar Reset. No. 4 have 
stated that he had cordial relations with both Humid All an ( J Zafar Husain, as 
he has admitted that Zafar Husain belonged to his party and Respt No. 4 has 
stated that his relations with Hamid Ali were not so cordial as with Zafar 
Husain. 


Hamid Ali could be influenced by Mohan Lai Varma as Mohan Lai Varma 
ts the founder and leader of the P.S.P. which he joined in 1955 when he was 
removed from the Presidentship of Pihani Municipal Board and was elected 
President of that very Board In 1957 on P.S.P. ticket. Azmat Ullah (P.W. 36) 
has stated that on being removed from Presidentship of the Municipal Board, 
Hamid Ali joined the P.S.P. in. 1955 while Shaflq Khan (P.W. 35) has stated 
that Hamid Ali was elected Member of the Pihani Municipal Board on P.S.P. 
ticket in the last Municipal elections of 1957 and was subsequently elected 
President of the sqid Board. Further Azmat Ullah and Azhar Husain alias 
Nawabu (R.W. 35) have stated that Mohan Lai Varma had established PSP 
m 1953 while Shaflq Khan and Macannath (P.Ws. 35 and 59) have stated thal 
Mohanlal Varma is still leader of P.S.P. 


Mohan Lai could not but have bitter feelings against the Respondent No 1 
as they headed rival parties In the Congress and he was not only expelled from 
mat organization m 3953 at tho instance of respondent No. 1 c^fter having defeated 
the Respondent No. 1 in the election for General Secretary-ship of the Hardoi 
. j- Congress Committee in 1946 and remained Secretary or President of the 
said Committee from 1946 to 1053 but the Respondent No. 1 had secured Presi- 
dentship of that Committee on his expulsion and retained it till 1937. 



312 


THE GAZETTE OF INMA : JANUARY 25', 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Fart * 


The respondent No. 4 (R.W, 72) has stated that Mohan Lai Varma and the 
Respondent No. 1 headed rival parties in Congress since 1940 ■when Mohan Lai 
Varma defeated the Respondent No. 1 in the election for General Secretary-ship 
•f the District Congress Committee of Hardol; that the said rival parties 
oontinued till 1953 when Mohan Lai Varma was expelled from Congress; and, 
that the Respt. No. 1 did not hold any office in the District Congress Committee 
from 1946 to 1953 but was elected President of the said -committee after the 
expulsion of Mohas Lai Varma. He is corroborated by Shyama Charan Varma 
(R.W. 39), permanent Secretary of the Dist. Congress Committee, Hardol, who 
has further stated that Mohan Lai Varma remained either Secretary or President 
of the Dlst. Congress Committee from 1946 to 1953, although the Respt. No. 1 
was President of the Dist. Congress Committee when he was defeated In 194S 
for Joint Secretary-ship and that on being elected President of the Dist. Congress 
committee after the expulsion of Mohan Lai Varma from the Congress the Respt. 
No. 1 continued to be President till 1957 when he was elected member of the 
Parliament and Vico President of the District Congress committee, Azhar Husaia 
•lias Nawabu and Mahesh Pd. (R.Ws, 35 and 46) have stated that Mohan Lai 
Varma was expelled from the Congress in 1953. Mahesh Prasad has further 
stated that the expulsion had taken place at the instance of the Respt. No. 1. 

There is evidence for the Petitioner also to the same effect. Wajahat Ali 
(P.W. 58) has stated that Mohan Lai Varma worked as Secretary or President 
of the Dist. Congress Committee, Hardol, from 1948 to 1953 when expelled from 
Congress and that after expulsion of Mohan Lai Varma from the Congress the 
Respondent No. 1 was elected President of the District Congress Committee in 
1953 and continued as such till 1947 when elected member of the Parliament. 

Bhagwati Prasad, Azmat Ullah and Karan Singh (P.W. 13, 30 and 39) have 

stated that Mohan Lai Varma had been expelled from Congress in 1953 for six 
years. 

The respondent No. 4 has stated that from 1946 to 1953 the personal relations 
of Mohan Lai Varma to the respondent Np. 1 were such that each one of them 

wanted to let down the other. Bansl Dhar Misra (R.W. 54), a member of the 

All India Congress Committee, has stated that in 1953 he found the relations of 
Mohan Lai Varma and the Respt. No. 1 so strained that they were bent to lower 
down each other’s prestige. Their strained relations appear to have continued 
oven after expulsion of Mohan Lai from the - Congress as Bhagwati Prasad 
(P,W. 13) and Ram Singh (R.W, 36) have stated that their rival parties still 
exist. Further Col. B. H. ZaidI (R.W. 73), Vice Chancellor, Aligarh Muslim 
University, has stated that he found relations of Mohan Lai Varma and the 
Respondent No. 1 extremely unpleasant from 1952 to 1957 when he was member 
of Parliament from Hardol. 

The extreme bitterness of their relations appears from the fact that both of 
them had even resorted to unsuccessful criminal litigation against each other 
Shyama Charan Varma (R.W. 39), Permanent Secretary of the Dist. Congress 
Committee, Hardol, has stated that Mohan Lai Varma was President of the Dist. 
Co-operative Development Federation and was prosecuted on the complaint of 
Respt. No 1 for embezzling Rs. 87000-88000/- in 1950-51 and that before being_ 
expelled from Congress In 1953 Mohan Lai Varma had prosecuted the Respt 
No. 1 under 'Sec. 500 IP.C., Mahesh Prasad (RW 40) has stated that the Respt. 
No. 1 had got the embezzlement case filed by one Manna Lai and the Dist 
Magistrate in or about 1950 and got coal licence cancelled of Mohan Lai who 
had a brick-kiln and that Mohan Lai had prosecuted the Respondent No. 1 
under section 500 I.P.C. Jagdamba Prasad (R.W. 1) has stated that Mohan Lai 
Varma had prosecuted the Respondent No. 1 u/s 500 and that Respondent 
No. 1 had given evidence against Mohan Lai Varma in the embezzlement case 
in 1951. The Respondent No, 1 denies to have got Mohan Lai Varma prosecuted 
by Manna Lai for embezzlement but admits to have appeared as prosecution 
witness in the embezzlement case. It has been conceded before me in the course 
of arguments that both the cases had ended in acquittal. The embezzlement 
case appears to have been protracted as it was decided in 1957 according to 
Bhagwati Prasad (P.W. 13). 

It appears that Mohan Lai Varma fields considerable influence. Basi Dhar Misra 
(R.W. 54) has stated that no action was taken against him for not complying 
with the directive of the Provincial Congress Committee for having a motion of 
no-confidence tabled against the Petitioner in 1952, although the Petitioner was 
expelled for 6 years from the Congress for having contested as an independent 
candidate for Membership of Parliament against the Congress candidate Col. 
B. H. Zgidi. His expulsion from Congress In 1953 v/as followed by resignation 
of 700-800 persons from Congress according to Shyama Charan Varma (RW 39) 



Sec, S (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, I960/MAGHA 3, 1881 3 I 3 , 


and of 500-600 persons according to Azmat UUah (P.W. 36). There can be no 
doubt about a large number of persons having resigned from the Congress on 
the expulsion of Mohan Lai Varma as it so appears from Exhibits A30 to A33 
and A51 to A53 of which Ex. A30, A32 and A51 to A53 are resignation letters 
•f some Individuals while Exts. A31 and A33 are such letters of several Indi- 
viduals in a body. After his expulsion from the Congress Mohan Lul Varma 
founded in Hardoi P.S.P. according to Azmatullah and Azhar Husain (P.W. 36 
»nd R.W. 35) of whom Azhar llusaln has also stated that some of those persons 
who had resigned from the Congress joined the P.S.P. He and somo of those 
persons who had resigned on his oxpulsion were allowed to join the Congress 
In 1955. although he had been expelled in 1953 for 6 years; but he had to be 
expelled and those persons who had been permitted to reioin Congress with him 
resigned again in 1950 according to Shyama Charan Varma (R.W. 39). The 
respondent No. 1 also appear-s to be equally, if not more influential as he had 
been Secretarv or President of the District Congress Committee before Mohan 
Lai Varma being elected General Secretary in 1946 and President after expulsion 
of Mohan Lai Varma from the Congress in 1953 at his instance. 

Mohan Lai Varma could be under obligation to the Petitioner as the Petitioner 
had given evidence for him in the defamation case against the Respondent No. 1 
who is undtsputedly a very influential person. It is presumably for this reason 
that in 1952 he even defied the directive of the Provincial Congress Committee 
for having a motion of No-confldcnce tabled against the Petitioner who was 
then President District Board. Their intimacy appears to have been much older 
as Mahesh Prasad (R.W. 46) has stated that the Petitioner was elected President 
of District Board by the partymen of Mohan Lai Varma in 1948. It appears to 
be persisting as it Is not disputed that inspite of being leader of P.S.P. Mohan 
Lai Varma helped the petitioner in the General Election and presented this 
Petition before the Election Commission on behalf of the petitioner. Hamid All 
had also helped the petitioner according to Aqa All (P.W, 36). Ashraf Husain 
(R.W, 19) Imam All (R W. 20), Abdul Razzaq (R.W. 21) and the Respondent 
No. 1 (R.W, 75). 

For the above reasons the evidence ol Sri Kishan and Jiwan Lai (P.Ws. 56 
and 57) Is unacceptable. The Petitioner has thus failed to prove that the res- 
pondent No, 1 had obtained and. procured or attempted to obtain the help of 
persons serving under the State of Uttar Pradesh for the furtherance of the 
prospects of his election. 

The Petitioner is, to be deemed to have pleaded implied consent of the Res- 
pondent No. X in Daya Shankar working for him by pleading that the Respondent 
No. 1 learnt on the occasion of his tours in villages Burhagaon, Jareli, Gopamau 
and Bazidnagar that Daya Shankar had worked for him. There is, however, no 
evidence in support of what has been pleaded. 

Tika Ram, Babu Ram Bachchu Lai and Khuman Singh (P.Ws. 5 to 8) have 
stated that the Respondent No. 1 had come to Burhagaon before and not after 
Daya Shankar canvassed there. Consequently the Respondent No. 1 could not 
have come to know about Daya Shankar working there for him even if the 
evidence about Daya Shankar working there is accepted inspite of Sri Dhar, 
Gokaran Nath Bajpai, Makund Ram and the Respondent No. 1 (R.Ws. 37,' 38, 
41 and 75) having stated that the Respt. No. 1 had not visited that village 
Cbhotey Lai (P.W. 11) has stated that the Respt. No. 1 had visited Jareli after 
Daya Shankar had worked there but I am not prepared to believe him as he 
is contradicted by Shankar Lai (P.W. 9). Govind Ram, (P.W. 10) and the Res- 
pondent No. 1 (R.W. 75). It has been stated by . Shankar Lai and the Respt. 
No. 1 that the Respondent No. 1 did not visit. Jareli while Govind Ram has 
stated that Respondent No, 1 had visited Jareli before Dava Shankar. There is 
no evidence about Respondent No. 1 having visited Bazidnagar after Daya 
Shankar having worked there. On the other hand Itaat Husain (P.W 15) has 
staled that the Respt. No. 1 had visited Bazidnagar before Daya Shankar and 
the Respondent No, 1 has stated that he did not visit Bazidnagar at all. There 
is no _ evidence about the Respt No. 1 having visited Gopamau. There is even 
no evidence about Daya Shankar having worked there as has already been asked. 

Before passing on to the next point I would like to note that respondent No 1 
is not likely to have employed Daya Shankar and Jagdish Prasad to work for him 
as he had previously made complaints against them and on his complaints they 
had come to grief, 

J*® ^ as as R.W. 75 that he had made complaint against Daya Shankar 

to Zafar Husain 6-7 years ago when Daya Shankar was employed as Octroi clerk 
and Zafar Husain was acting President of the Pihanl Municipal Board. Ex A84 



3*4 


1 HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 25, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part II 


in his letter containing the said complaint. Its date .cannot be deciphered on 
account of having been washed out by water falling on it but 7th Match 1954 
appears from the certified copy kept in its place and that date must be correct 
as the complaint is referred to in Six. A45 which is a copy of the report dated 
13th March 1954 of Zafar Husain Senior Vice President to the President. 

It has been argued that the complaint and the report may have been subsequently 
inserted as Zafar Husain assumed Presidentship of the Board in 1955 when Hamid 
Ali resigned or was removed. In support of that argument reliance is placed on 
the fact that the respondent No. l’s complaint is entered in the index of the 
Board’s file at Serial No. 41 after so cutting off the previous entry that it is 
undecipherable, I see no force in the argument as the original report of Zafar 
Husain does' not appear to have been subsequently inserted. He could not have 
made any Insertion recently as Hamid Ali was elected at first member and then 
President of the Board in 1957. 

Daya Shankar it likely to have come to know if Respt. No. l’s complaint and 
Zafar Husain's report as he submitted apology on 17th March 1954 (vide Ex. A4C). 
After apology being tendered S. Zafar Husain submitted another report on 18th 
March 1954 to the President for lenient view being taken (vide Ex. A47). Hamid 
Ali President approved of the report and fined Daya Shankar Rs. 10/- on 25th 
March 1954 ( vide Ex. A48). Khurrtan Singh (P.W. 8) has admitted that Daya 
Shankar was formerly employed in the Municipal Board Pihani and Is lekhoal 
for the last three years. 

The Respt. No. 1 has stated that hq had made complaint against Jagdish Prasad 
Collection peon G-7 years ago but does not appear to remember the period of the 
complaint correctly as the ccmplaint (Ex. A85) proved by him Is dated 18th August 
1956. It was made to the Deputy Coinrfiissioncr Bardoi who sent it to Collection 
Officer for enquiry and report by his order dated 18th August 1956 (vide Ex. A18) 
The District Collection Officer reported on 12th September 1956 that Jagdish 
Prasad be warned not to meddle in party-politics till he is in Government service 
and the Tahsildar be asked never to post him In any circle near his home and 
also intimate that he was no longer posted in Pihani proper circle (vide Ex. A82). 
That report appears to have been accepted by the Deputy Commissioner as the 
District Collection Officer ordered the Tahsildar Shahabud on 19th November 1958 
that Jagdish Prasad be warned not to meddle in party-politics till he is Govern- 
ment servant and should not be posted near about Pihani which Is his home 
(vide M'J). 

It has been argued on behalf of the petitioner that Daya Shankar may have 
been employed by the respondent No. 1 to work for him as he is nephew of 
Gokaran Nath Bajpai (RW. 38) who is admittedly a Congress worker for 20-25 
v years, belongs to the party of the respondent No, 1 and had supported the Congress 
candidates and worked as polling agent for some Congress candidate at Burhagaon 
polling centre In the General elections of 1957, I see no force In that argument 
as Daya Shankar is not likely to have accepted the influence of Gokaran Nath 
Bajpai on account of having suffered at the instance of the Respondent No 1 
and of Gokaran Nath Bajpai hein’g not his real uncle. Gokaran Nath Bajpai has 
admitted that Daya Shankar is his nephew but the relationship does not appear 
to be real as Gokaran Nath Bajpai is son of Jwala Prasad and Bachulal (P.W. 7) 
has ' stated that Daya Shankar is son of Pyarelal whose brothers were Jugal 
Kishore, Mewa Ram and Dachhman Prasad The relations of Jwala Prasad and 
Gokaran Nath Bajual may not have been cordial as Khuman Singh (P.W. 8) 
has stated that Gokaran Nath Bajpai’s father Jwala Prasad formerly resided in 
the compound in which Daya Shankar has his house but constructed another 
house 20-25 years ago beyond a lane to the east of the compound and Gokaran 
Nath Bajpai now resides in the newly constructed house. 

The evidence about Jagdish Prasad and Daya Shankar having actually canvassed 
for respondent No. 1 may now be considered. 

Tika Ram, Babu Ram. Dachchu Lai and Khuman Singh of Burhagaon (P.Ws. 5 
to 8) have stated that Daya Shankar had held a meeting in their village at 
panchayat ghar and canvassed for the Congress candidates after the residents of 
the village had told the Respondent No, 1 that they had decided to vote for 
Jan Sangh. They have not given the date of the meeting but it could be 25th 
February 1957 as Tlka Ram has stated that it was held 4-5 days and the others 
have staled that it was held 5-6 days before voting which took place on 3rd March 
1957 according to Gokaran Nath Bajpai. (B,.W. 38), In spite of it I am not prepared 
to believe them as the Respondent No. 1 is likely to have sent some influential 



315 


Sw. 3 (li)] THE GA7ETTF OF INDIA ; JANUARY 23, 1%0/MAGHA 3, 1B81 


person if it be true as stated by them, that he 1 had been told previously by the 
residents of Burhagaon that they had decided to vote for Jan Sangh D«u 
Shankai could not be such person as 'he was employed elsewhere and Ins elders 
resided in the village. His uncle Gokaran Nath Bajpai (.R.W, 38) could be such 
person as he is elder to him and resides m the village. The Respondent No 1 
could also have confidence in him as he is an old Congressman and belongs 
his parly Khuman Singh has even admitted that Gokaran Nath Bajpai had 
worked for the Respondent No. 1. 


In rebuttal there is evidence of Sridhar, Gokaran Nath Bajpai, Makund Ram 
and Ram Kumar (R.Ws 37, 38, 41 and 42). They have all stated that no meeting 
was held in Burhagaon by Daya Shankar. Out of them Sridhar has bech named by 
the petitioner’s witness as the person through whom Daya Shankar had collected 
people in the meeting but he, Makund Ram and Ram Kumar have refuted them 
1 consider the evidence of these witnesses satisfactory as Sridhar and Ram Kumar 
are quite independent. Gokaran Nath Bajpai and Makund Ram could be interested 
in the Respondent No 1 as both of them are admittedly old Congressmen, Gokaran 
Nath Bajpai also admittedly belongs to Respondent No. i’s party and had supposed 
Congress candidates 'in the General Ejections of 1957 and Makund Ram had 
admittedly acted as polling agent lor some Congress candidate. But this is off 
little consequence when their evidence is corroborated by two independent 
witnesses 


I,t arned counsel for the Respondent No. 1 has also relied on Daya Shankar's 
diary (Ex. A40) proved by Chhotey Lai, Gokaran Nath Bajpai and Sada Ram 
(P.Ws. 18. 38 and 55) to contradict the petitioner's witnesses as it shows that 
Daya §hankar had done partial on 25th February 1957 in village Bazidnagar 
which is at a distance of 4-5" miles from Burhagaon according to Tika Ram (P.W. 5). 
Sada Ram was then Tahsildar Shahabad and had signed the relevant entry on 
15th July 1957 after the diary being taken into custody by the Supervisor Qanungo 
m accordance with his order dated 13th July 1957 (Ex. A77) given ty him m 
pursuance of the order of o\en date of the District Magistrate (Ex. A70) on the 
application of Respondent No. 1 of that very date (Ex. A75). The Respondent 
No. 1 had also written to him direct on 9th July 1957 for the chary being taken 
into custody and on it too he had ordered the Supervisor Qanungo on 9th July 
1957 to obtain the diary (wide Exts. 44 and A79) I do not consider the ent:y 
in question to bo sufficient to controvert the evidence of tbe petitioner’s witnesses 
as Dayn Shankar could have gone to Burhagaon in spare time on account of the 
distance being only 4^0 miles. He could not have made a note of his visit to 
Burhagaon in his diary as his risit to Burhagaon would have been private and 
not official. 

There is evidence of Shankar La), Govind Ram, Chhote Lai and Suryabux 
Singh (P.Ws. 9 to 11 and 14) about Daya Shankar having collected a meeting of 
The residents of Jareh at Shankar Lai’s house before polling and canvassed for 
the Congress candidates m that meeting but they dlller about how many days 
before polling Ihe meeting was held. Shankar Lai and Govind Ram have stated 
that thi‘ meeting was held 12-13 days before polling while Chhote Lai has stated 
that it was held 13-14 days before polling and Suryabux Singh has stated that 
it was held only 2 days before polling Suryabux Singh lias ratagorically 
contradicted the other witnesses by stating that Daya Shankar had not come to 
, larch prior to two days before polling. 

The evidence of all these witnesses is of little avail as it has already been 
noted that there is conflict in the pleadings aljout the date on which Daya Shankar 
canvassed in Jarcli. It was stated m Schedule E annexed to tbe petition that 
Daya Shankar had canvassed m Jaieli and other places from 25th February 
to 9th March 1957 whereas it was stated in better particulars filed subsequently 
that Daym Shankar ' worked in Jareli on 18fh February 1957 . The evidence of 
the first three witnesses could relate to 18th February 1957 as polling in Jareli 
took place on 3rd March 1957 according to Shankar Lai and the polling agency 
forms (Exts. 24 and A24 to A27) but it is to be eliminated as the canvassing in 
.Tarell was done from 25th January 1957 to 9th March 1957 according to Schedule 
E annexed to the petition. The testimony of the remaining witness Surya Bux 
Singh is eliminated although jt could relate to the period specified in Schedule E 
annexed to the petition, as it is uncorroborated and is in conflict with the 
specific date of canvassing given in belter particulars. 

These witnesses for the petitioner appear to be interested in the petitioner 
as he was a Jan Sangh candidate and Shankar Lai and Govind Ram have stated 
that the residents of village Jareli had decided to vote for Jftn Sangh befare the 



316 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 25, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1»81 


[Fart H 


meeting held by Daya Shankar. Shankar Lai has no doubt further stated that 
after Daya Shankar’s visit the residents of Jareli decided to vote for Congrdfes 
but I am not prepared to believe him as he has refused to disclose to whom he 
had voted although he was admittedly polling agent for Mahesh Singh who w*» 
a Congress candidate for Assembly and Govind Ram has stated that the villagers 
promised their vote to any one who visited their village irrespective of the 
party to which the visitor belonged. Shankar Lai has denied the suggestion that 
he worked for the Petitioner and that the residents of Jareli had decided to vote 
in favour' of Congress for Assembly and in favour of Jan Sangh for Parliament but 
the suggestions are not improbable as he but Surya Bux Singh have given 
evidence for the petitioner although they, were admittedly polling agents for 
Mahesh Slneh and their polling agenry forms are Exts. 24 and A26. 

There is the evidence of, Ram Singh, Jadunath Singh and Ram Sagar (R.Ws. 
30, 43 and 67) in rebuttal. They have stated that no meeting was held in 
Jareli by Daya Shankar. Ram Singh could have a motive to be interested i* 
Respondent No. 1 as he has stated that his rival parties head Puttu Singh belongs 
to the party of Mohan Lai Varma and had worked for the petitioner but Jadunath 
Singh and Ram Sagar are quite independent. The evidence of Ram Singh 
cannot be discarded merely for his interestedness when it is corroborated by 
two independent witnesses. The evidence in rebuttal is thus satisfactory. 

There is evidence of Ganna, Itaat Husain, Rahim Bux, Dwarka and Nilkanth 
(P.Ws. 12 and 15 to 18) in support of Daya Shankar having convassed for the 
respondent No. 1 In a meeting at Bazidnagar. It is worthless as it could not be 
connected with 7th March 1957 when Daya Shankar is alleged to have canvassed 
in Bazidnagar according to petitioner’s better particulars and is conflicting about 
time and duration of the meeting and about what took place at the meeting 
besides the canvassing by Daya Shankar. 

Ganna has stated that the meeting, was held three days before polling and 
as such, could relate to 6th March 1957 in view of polling having taken place in 
Bazidnagar on 9th March 1957 according to Ishwarl, Paragi Lai and Chhotey Lai 
(R.Ws. 2, 6 and 18). He has further stated that no other talk had taken place 
in the meeting besides Daya Shankar canvassing for Congress but is contradicted 
by Itaat Husain and Nilkanth who have given conflicting versions. Rahim Bux. 
has stated that he alone had declared that he shall vote for Congress candidate# 
while Nilkanth has stated that all the persons present In the meeting had declared 
to vote for Congress. 

Ganna has not stated anything about time and duration of the meeting but 
according to him the meeting is not likely to have lasted for more than a lew 
minutes as he has stated that no other talk took place in the meeting beside# 
Daya Shankar asking the persons present there to vote for Congress. Itaat 
Husain has definitely stated that Daya Shankar had addressed the meeting for 
5-10 minutes and then the meeting dispersed but has not stated at what time the 
meeting had taken place. Rahim Bux has stated that the meeting had lasted 
from 12 noon — 1 to 4 p.m. while Dwaraka has stated that the meeting had lasted 
from It a.m. to about 1 p.m. Nilkanth has stated that the meeting had started 
at about 2 p.m. and he left it after about half an hour when it was still going 
on. 

The evidence of Itaat Husain and Rahim Bux could relate to 7th March 195E 
if their polling centre had been Bazidnagar as Itaat Husain has stated that the 
meeting had taken place 2-3 days before polling and Rahimbux has stated thaii 
It had taken place 1-2 days before polling. But their evidence Is unacceptable as 
they are residents of Shahpur Sayyadan and there Is no evidence to show that 
the polling for Shahpur Sayyadan took place at Bazidnagar polling centre. 
Itaat Husain and Rahim Bux have no doubt stated that their village Shahpur 
Sayyadan was within the circle of Daya Shankar lekhpal of Bazidnagar and 
Itaat. Husain has further stated that Shahpur Sayyadan Is 3-4 furlongs from 
Bazidnagar but merely from these facts it could not be inferred that the polling - 
for Shahpur Sayyadan took place in Bazldngar. Such inference is unjustified. 


Dwarka and Nilkanth who are residents of Mahelia Khera have stated thal 
the voting of their village took place in Dahelia and according to Itaat Husain 
Mahelia Khera Is also at a distance of 3-4 furlong# from Bazidnagar. 

The presence of Ita'at Husain In the meeting is eliminated by Ganna. Dwarka 
has not named even Ganna among the residents of Bazidnagar who attended 
the meeting but that is of little consequence at he did not admittedly know all 
those residents of Bazidnagar who had attended tha meeting. 



imc. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23. 1960/MAGHA S, 1881 317 


The evidence of Dwarka and Nilkanth is of little avail as it is conflicting 
about the number of days intervening between the polling 'and the meeting and the 
intervening period appears to have been given with reference to the date of 
polling in Dahelia about which there is no evidence. The meeting had .taken 
place 4-6 days before polling according to Dwarka and 3 days before polling 
according to Nilkanth. Dwarka has expressed his inability to tell the date of 
polling in Dahelia, He could not even say if the voting in Dahelia had taken 
place before or after Basidnagar. 

There is evidence of Ishwari, Budha, Pooran son of Behari, Talib Ali, Paragi 
Lai, Pooran son of Thamman, Mangli, Bulaqi, Gaya Din, Akhtar Husain, Hulshi 
and Jibba (R.Ws. 2 to 10 and 14 to 16th rebuttal). Out of them Ishwari, Budha, 
Pooran son of Behari, Talib Ali, Pragi Lai, Pooran son of Thamman, Mangli and 
Bulaqi are residents of Bazidnagar while Gaya Din is resident of hamlet of 
Bazidnagar; Akhtar Husain and Tulshi are resident of Shahpur Sayyadan and 
Jibba is resident of a hamlet of Shahpur Sayyadan. The evidence is of little 
avail as Akhtar Husain, Tulsi and Jibba have not stated that they remained all 
along with Daya Shankar and the others have specifically stated that they did 
not remain all along with Daya Shankar. The residence of Bazidnagar could 
be amenable to the influence of Zafar Husain of Pihani who had zamindari 
there before its abolition according to Budha, Pooran and Gaya Din of whotn 
Pooran and Gaya Din also admit to have been tenants of Zafar Husain. Zafar 
Husain could be under obligation to the respondent No. 1 as it has already 
been noted that he and Hamid Ali belonged to rival parties and he assumed 
Presidentship of the Pihani Municipal Board when no confidence motion was 
passed against Hamid Ali on account of Respondent No. 1 not leading support 
to Hamid Ali. Aqa Ali and Jiwan Lai (P.Ws. 26 and 57) have stated that Zafar 
Husain had worked for Congress. Aqa Ali has further specifically stated that 
Zafar Husain had worked for respondent No. 1 in the General Elections of 1967. 
The evidence in rebuttal is thus not satisfactory but that is of little consequence 
when the petitioner’s evidence has not been believed. 


There is evidence of Bakhtan Singh, Mahendrapal Singh, Sundar Lai, and 
Prabhu (P.Ws, 21 to 23 and 34) about Jagdish Prasad having canvassed for 
respondent No. 1 on 2nd March 1957 in Karawan where polling took place on 9th 
March, 1957 according to polling agency forms (Ex. A35 and A36). The evidence 
of the first three could relate to canvassing on 2nd March, 1957 as they have 
stated that Jagdish Prasad had held meeting 6 — 7 days before voting but net 
of Prabhu as he has stated that the meeting was held 10—12 days before voting. 
The evidence of Prabhu could not relate to the meeting about which the other three 
have stated as it was held at Shyam Lai’s chaupal according to him while it had 
taken place at Shyam Lai’s house according to others. Sundar Lai excludes the 
piesence of Bakhtan Singh, Mahendrapal Singh and Prabhu from the meeting by 
stating that thakur-Zamindars and members of other castes than Brahmins, 
kachhis, Pads, chamars and banias did not attend the meeting as Bakhtan Sin*h 
and Mahendrapal Singh are thakur-zamindars and Prabhu is sweeper by caste. 


These witnesses could have soft corner for the petitioner as Sundar Lai has 
stated that three schools were opened in Karawan during the petitioner’s 
Presidentship of District Board. Prabhu could even be amenable to the influence 
of the petitioner as he is admittedly ih District Board service for three years 
and as petitioner is undisputedly Vice-President of Antriam Zila Parishad at 
present. Bakhtan Singh could be interested in the petitioner as admittedly he 
was polling agent at Karwan for Jansangh candidate Kalka Singh and his 
brother and kinsmen are married in Neer which is petitioner’s home. He could 
also be interested in against the Respondent because admittedly he and his 
family sided Shamlal for Pradhanship of his village against Shiv Singh (R.W. 
66) who is admittedly an old Congressman and had worked for Congress and 
Respt. No. 1. His untrustworthiness is evident from his admission that he ha# 
made false promise to the Respondent No. 1 to vote for him and to Sitla Charan 
Bajuai to vote for his wife who was also Congress candidate. 

Jagadish Prasad is least likely to have been employed by the respondent No. 

1 for his canvassing because Sudeshlal has stated that the canvassing for 
Respondent No. 1 was done by Chief and other Ministers of U.P., Ram Sagar 
and Shiv Singh of whom Shiv Singh is an influential man of the village and 
went from door to door while the Chief and other Ministers addressed meeting 
and public was influenced by their speeches. 



THF LA/.E1TF. OF INDIA: JANUARY S3, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Paid It 


Shiv Singh and Ram Sagar (RWs, 65 and 67) have been examined ' m 
rebuttal. The evidence ot Ram Sagar is of little ayail as it is specifically for 
1st March 1957 when he claims to have gone to Karawan, presumbly fiom 
Jareli where he was admittedly posted as District Board teacher in those clays 
It could be of little avail also because he had admitted that he did not attend 
any election meeting, that he has no personal knowledge about persons who mar 
have addressed such meetings and that he does not known when and wheie 
the election meetings were convened by P.£?.P, Jan Sangh and Congress The 
uncorroborated testimony of Shiv Singh does not carry conviction as admittedly 
he is an old Congressman and had worked for Congress and the Respondent 
No, 1 in the general elections of 1957. The elimination of rebutting evidence is, 
however, of little consequence when the petitioner’s evidence has been found 
not to be satisfactory. 


There is evidence of Jagdish (not Jagdish peon of Collection Amin), Khanna 
and Dwarka (P.Ws, 24, 43 and 44) m support of Jagdish Peon having canva sed 
for respondent No. 1 on 6th March 1957 in Mansoor Nagar where voting took 
place on 9th Ma~ch 1957 according to Chhotey Lai (R.W. 45) their evidence Is 
unsatisfactory as it is conflicting about venu, the date of meeting and the gather- 
ing in the meeting. 


Jagadish has stated that the meeting wa-. held in Mansoor Nagar at the 

house of Sukhdarshan Lal, retired District Board teacher, 4 — 5 day-, before 

voting and was attended by 25—30 residents of Mansoor Nagar. He is corroborat- 
ed by Khanna about venu -of the meeting only as Khanna has stated that the 
meeting wgs convened 3—4 days before voting and was attended by 40 — 50 
residents ot Mansoor Nagar. They are both contradicted by Dwarka in a.-, 
much as Dwarka has stated' that the meeting was held in Mansoor Nagai’s 
hamlet Ainthapurwa at the joint chaural of himself and his cousin Dwarka 

4 — 6 days befori? voting and was attended by all the 100 voters of that hamlet. 

Khanna admittedly resides in Ainthapurwa and has stated that he had gone to 
Mansdor Nagar for attending the meeting with others including Dwarka. He 
is contradicted by Dwarka who has stated that no meeting was convened and 
addressed by Jagadiih Prasad in Mansoor Nagar. Khanna and Dwarka both 
exclude the presence of Jagadish from the meeting addressed by Jagadish Prasad 
inasmuch as they have' stated they did not see Jagadish in the meeting. 

Jagadish has stated that Jagadish Prasad’s meeting was attended among 
others by Rameshwac Prasad, Chhotey Lal. Shyam Sundar and Tilak Ram 
(RWs. 44, 45, 47 and 481 but is contradicted by them They and Maht\,h 
Prasad (RW. 46 1 have been examined in rebuttal, Rumcsliawar Prasad is a 
Pradhan of Sujauli Tigama and resides in village Machheta which was included 
m Mansoor Nagar polling centre. He has stated that no meeting was hold by 
Jagadish Prasad at the door of Khanna and Dwarka in Ainthapurwa which is at 
a distance of 314 mile from Mansoor Nagar and Machheta. He has further stated 
that no meeting was held by Jagadish Prasad anywhere including Mansooi 
Nagar. He is corroborated about Jagadish Prasad having not hold any , meeting 
in Mansoor Nagai nr Ainthapurwa by Tilak Ram (R.W, 4R) who is a lesidint of 
Mansoor Nagar. Chhotey Lal, Mahcsh Prasad and Shyam Sundar (R.Ws 45 to 
47) have stated that no meeting was held by Jagdish Prasad in Mansoor Nagai 
at the house of Sukhdarshan Lal, Chhotey Lal is sarpanch of Mansoor Nagar 
centre while Shyam Sundar is a practising Vaid of Mansoor Nagar and Mahe h 
Prasad is admitted even by Jagdish (P.W. 24) to be a staunch Congressman, 

Rameswar Prasad has stated that Mahesh Prasad only bad worked for 
Congress in Machheta, Mansoor Nagar and Ainthapurwa while Mahesh Pm'-aet 
has stated that he was the chief worker of Respondent No. 1 for Mansoor Nagar 
Mandal in the general elections of 1957, There is no wonder in Mahesh Prasad 
working who’e-heartedly for the respondent No 1 as he has stated thet he has 
been in Congress since 1032, was prosecuted in 1953 under section 500 I.P.C 
with the Respondent No. 1 by Mohanlal Varnia, has all along belonging to 
respondent No l’s party and had worked as polling agent for Respondent No. 1 
at Umaisanda polling centre. Resides Mahesh Prasad Respondent No. 1 bad 
another well-to-do influential and ordent worker m Hakim Shyam Sundar 
accordingly to Dwarka. The Respondent No. 1 is consequently not likely to 
have utilized the service of Jagadish Prasad for his canvassing especially when 
Jagdish Prasad (P.W. 24) has stated that the residents of Mansoor Nagar arc 
mostly Congressites. 



.Sir. 5 (ii)J THE GAZETTE OI- INDIA. JANUAR\ 23/ 1960/MAGHA 3, I8fil 31 y 

; 

• Jagdiah is not likely to have canvassed for Respondent No. 1 as, apart from 
having been found to have suffered on respondent No. J's complaint he had voted 
for Jansangh in Assembly and Parliamentary constituencies in the general elections 
of 1957. The unchallenged testimony of D. L. Agarwal (R. W. 56), the then Mun- 
*if Hardoi and Presiding officer at the Municipal Board School Piham polling 
centre, is to the effect that the name of the voter was struck off from the list of 
voters and the number of ballot paper was noted at the margin against the 
struck off voter when ballot paper was given to him. It appears from voters list 
i Ex. A80) that ballot papers Nos. 8801A and B were given to Jagdish prasad who 
was entered at S. No. 46. Those bfillot papers were found m the pooled hallot 
papers of Shiv Din and Niranjan Singh who were admittedly Jan Sangh candi- 
dates for general and reserved seats respectively, when the ballot box containing 
pooled ballot papers were opened on respondent No. 1’s application on 13th June, 
1959. It has been argued that Jagdish is not likely to have canvassed lor the 
respondent No. 1 as respodent No. l’s nephew and pairokar Respt. No. 4 has stated 
that quarrel had taken place between him and Jagdish Prasad on Jagdish Prasad 
being stopped by him canvassing against Congress candidates inside Municipal' 
Primary School Piham polling centre. But I am not prepared to acccpl it as the 
respondent No. 4 is a highly interested witness and his testimony is nol corrobo- 
rated. The corroboration of his testimony was Dosaible as he slated that people 
had collected round him and Jagdish Prasad when the quarrel took place. His 
evidence is unacceptable also because voting is likely to have taken place in the 
Municipal Primary School Piham polling centre on 9th March, 1957 when polling 
took place in other polling centres of Piham according to Abdul Hai (R. W. 25 1 
and Exts 34 to 39 and A41 read with the testimony of D. L. Agarwal fR. W. '56 ) 
and on that date Jagdish Prasad was in Mansoor Nagar according to Chhotoy Lai 
<RW 45) and Jagdish (P.W. 24). 

There is thus no satisfactory evidence about Jagdish Prasad having canvas ed 
fur respondent No. 1 in Karawan and Mansoor Nagar. 

It may be noted that Ashraf Husain, Imam Ali, Abdur Razzaq, Mohammad 
Sami, Maiku Lai, Sana LUlah, Abdul Hai and Abdul Qadar (R. Ws 19 to !£fi) have 
stated that Jagdish Pi'asad did not work for the respondent No 1 in Piham This 
evidence appears to have been adduced as Waris Ah (P, W 40) GhuUim Nahi 
(P. W. 41) and Mohammed Sawi PW 42 have stated in cros i-oxanunal ion that 
Jagdish Prasad had canvassed votes for all Congress eandidati s n eluding the 
re-pondent No. 1 in Pihani some days before polling. The entuc evidence about 
canvassing by Jagdish in Pihani is, however, of little avail as tlm petitioner has 
nol pleaded about such canvassing. 

The evidence about Jagdish Prasad and Daya Shankar being appointed polling 

■ gents by Respondent No. 1 may now be considered Exts fj and 35 have been 
relied on in this connection. Ex. 5 is a polling Agency form dab-rl 1st March. 
1957 where by Daya Shankar is said to have been appointed pooling agent of 
pooling sation No. 170 at Hansbarauli while Ex. 35 is pod mg agenev 
form dated 9th March, 1957 Whereby Jagdish Prasad is said to have been appoint- 
ed polling agent for polling station No 30 at Junior High School P’hnni by the 
respondent No. 1 In oral pleadings recorded on 9th April, 1958, the respondent 
No. 1 had stated that he was not definite lh respect of any one of them if the 
signatures thereon were made by him or not but he was sure that he did not 

■ ppointed Jagdish Prasad and Daya Shankar his polling agents and workers as 
they were his enemies for a long lime before the election Further he had stated 
an that very date that in case it is found that any of ihoso exhibits bears his 
signature it mav be that some blank forms signed by him were given to some of 
his workers and the petitioner managed to obtain some of them somehow and 
Thereafter, in collusion with Daya Shankar and Jagdish Prasad inserted their 
names in those forms. He had also stated that sn/ned blank forms were put in 
tile election office of the District Congrc s committee wh.ch had beep in Ihe 
charge of Ganesh Prasad and Shyama Charan clerks and may have been obtained 
from there by the petitioner or his supporters and workers; that the workers 
were given the said forms from the saicl office but no rerord was maintained of 
the workers to whom they were given and that it could not he said which of the 
workers took the said forms from the said office as thousands of workers were 
then working for him. 

M. Y. Khan, R, A. Greeor-v. Pratap Narain, Waiahat Ah and Mangannath 
(P. Ws. 45, 46, 54, 58 and 5° i have been relied upon for the petitioner in support 
of Exts. 5 and 35 having ’.^natures of the respondent No. 1. Their evidence also 
relates to Ex. 36 whereby the respondent No. 1 is alleged to have appointed Shanti 
Swarup as his polling agent. But it is of little avail as Shanti Swaiup has not 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Fa*? II 


320 


been found to be a Government servant of the class specified in section 123 (7) 
(f) of the H. P. Act. I shall therefore, ignore the evidence relating to Ex. 36 in 
further discussion. 

M, Y. Khan is an Assistant to R, A. Gregory hand-writing expert Lucknow 
and does document photography for him. He has proved the enlargements of 
the alleged signatures of the respondent No. 1 on Exts. 35 and 5 which are 
marked D1 and D3 respectively In Ex. 31 and of admitted signatures of respon- 
dent No. 1 on power of attorney dated 4th July 1957, notice under section 07 
R.P. Act dated 17th July 1957, Recriminatory Charges and schedules A to C, I 
and F of Recriminatory Charges (papers Nos. 7C, 11A/1, 11A/2, 11A/5 11A/6, 
11A/7, 11A/9 and 11A/10) marked SI to S8 respectively in Ext. 32. R.A. 
Gregory is of the opinion that the disputed signatures are similar to admitted 
signatures. It Is not necessary to consider the evidence of these witnesses as the 
learned counsel for the parties have conceded before me in the course of argu- 
ments that the opinion of expert cannot be basis of finding where there are con- 
flicting opinion of the experts and in this case the respondent No. 1 haB produced 
two experts who are of the opinion that the disputed signatures are not similar 
to admitted signatures. 

Pratap Narain Wajahat Ali and Magannath have stated that Exts. 5 and 35 
bear 'signatures of the respondent No, 1 in English. Their evidence is to be 
looked with extreme caution because they were not cited as witnesses of issue 
No. 7(b) in the original list of witnesses dated 1st December 1958 and were 
cited as such on 4th December 1958. The name of at least Pratap Narain could 
have been cited in the original list of witnesses as he has stated on 22nd April 
1959 that he had told the petitioner about a year ago that he could identify 
signatures of the respondent No. 1 and had in his possession letters signed by 
the respondent No. 1. 

Pratap Narain is not a reliable witness as he has admittedly cordial relations 
with the petitioner for the last 15 years and was prosecuted once under section 
409 I.P.C. and once under section 420 I.P.C. He could not Identify the signatures 
of the respondent No. 1 as he does not claim to have seen him writing. He claims 
to know the signatures of the respondent No. 1 on account of having correspond- 
ence With him from 1950 to 1957 in connection with elections but it is not possible 
to believe him as no letter has been filed by him, although he claims to have 
In his possession the said letters and the specific evidence of the Deft No. 1 that 
he did not ever have correspondence with him has not been challenged in cross- 
examination. It was suggested to the respondent No. 1 that Pratap Narain was 
Treasurer of Madhoganj Congress Mandal from 1952 to 1957 but he has pleaded 
ignorance about It. The suggestion could have no truth as Pratap Narain ha» 
slated that he had never joined Congress. It appears to have been made as th« 
respondent No. 1 has admitted that his writings and signatures used to go to 
Mandal Congress Committees when he was President of the District Congress 
committee 

It has been argued by the learned counsel for the respondent No. 1 that Pratap 
Narain is not an independent witness on account of his intimate relations with 
petitioner’s well-wisher, Mohan Lai Varma, In support of such relations he has 
relied on the fact that he had resigned from Congress in 1953 when Mohan Lai 
Varma was expelled according to Ex. A53 dated 24th June 1958 which has Deen 
proved by Shyama Charan Varma (R.W, 39). I do not agree with him as the 
resignation letter in question was not put to him and the evidence of Shyama 
Charan Varma about knowing his signature is unsatisfactory. Shyama Charan 
Varma stated at first that he had seen Pratap Narain signing hundreds of times 
but stated subsequently that Pratap Narain may have signed in his presence 
twice or thrice although he could not recall definitely if Pratap Narain had 
signed In his presence and that he had wrongly stated previously that Pratap 
Narain had signed in his presence hundreds of times. He has definitely stated 

that Pratap Narain had not signed Ex. A53 In his presence. 

Wajahat Ali has staled that he could identify the signatures of the respondent 
No. 1 as he had seen him writing in Hardoi and Sandila and had received 
letters from him from 1953 to 1957. He could have seen the Respt. No. 1 signing 
In Hardoi and Sandila and could have received letters from the respondent No, 1 
from 1953 to 1957 as he has stated that he had ioined Congress in 1938 or 1937 
and remained its member upto 1958, was President from 1940 to 1944 and Secre- 
tary in 1945 and 1946 of Sandila Congress Mandal Committee and was elected 
Piestdent of the Sandila Municipal Board on Congress ticket In 1953 and continued 
as such till 1958. He could identify respondent No, l’s signatures on Ex, 7 and 

A35 to A38 when they were shown to him in cross-examination The respondent 



Sec, 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 32I 


No. 1 has admitted that Wajahat Ah was president of Sandila Municipal Board 
on Congress ticket from 1953 to 1957 and has not denied that he had signed in 
Hardoi and Sandila in the presence of Wajahat Ali and that Waiahat All was 
member of Congress from 1936 or 1937 to 1958 and was President from 1940 
to 1944 and Secretary in 1945 and 1946 of Sandila Congress Mandal Committee. 
He has denied that he had correspondence with Waiahat Ali and 
that instructions wore sent to President Municipal Board by the 
District Congress Committee buL has admitted that his writings and signatures 
used to come to Congress Mandal Committees when he was President of the 
District Congress Committee, He has not refuted Wajahat Ali’s testimony about 
having been President of Sandila Congress Mandal Committee but has Simply 
stated that he could not recall to memory if Wajahat All was office hearer of 
Sandila Congress Mandal Committee, when his writings and signatures were sent 
to Congress Mandal Committees, llis loss of memory could be due to attack 
of Cerebral thrombosis In .January 1959 as stated by him and his cousin res- 
pondent No. 4. In view of his admission that his writings and signatures used 
to go to Congress Mandal Committees Waiahat Ali could be familiar with his 
signatures. He has slated that Wajahat Ali belonged to the party of Mohan Lai 
Varma till 195G but that is of little consequence as Waiahat Ali is not said to 
have belonged to the party of Mohan I.al Varma in 1957 when the general elec- 
tions took place or subsequent to it. I have consequently no hesitation in believ- 
ing the evidence of Wajahat Ali op the poiqt. 

Magan Nath has stated that he could identify the signatures of the respondent 
No, 1 as he received 15-20 letters from him in his capacity as Chief Whip In 
1953-54 of the Congress party in the Sandila Municipal Board of which he was 
member on Congress ticket from 1953 to 1957. I have no hesitation in believing 
him as the respondent No. 1 has not denied that instructions were sent to the 
Chief Whip of the Congress Party in Sandila Municipal Board although he has 
stated that no Instructions were sent to the President Municipal Board Sandila 
by the District Congress Committee. The respondent No. 1 had admitted at first 
that Magan Nath was Chief Whip but in the next breath stated thnt he could 
not recall to memory about Magan Nath having been Chief Whip of the Congress 
party In the said Board. His subsequent statement could be due to loss of 
memory for reason already given by me while considering the evidence of 
Wajahat Ali. 

It has been argued that the testimony of Magan Nath is unworthy of .credence 
as he has admitted that after remaining in the Congress from 1930 to 1957 he 
joined in 1957 P.S.P. of which Mohan Lai Varma is founder and leader in 
Hardoi district, that he was selected as P.S.P. candidate for Sandila Municipal 
Board in 1958 and that in the general elections of 1957 he worked ns polling 
agent at Sandila for Mohan Lai Varma. I do not agree as his evidence is 
corroborated by Wajahat All who has been found to he an Independent witness. 

The respondent No. 1 and his nephew respondent No. 4 have stated that 
Exts. 5 and 35 do not bear the signatures of the respondent No. 1. I am not 
prepared to believe them for the reasons to be iust stated. They arc both 
highly interested and are not corroborated by any other witness, except the 
handwriting experts (R.W. 51 and 52) whose opinion cannot be basis of 
finding as has already been noted in connection with the evidence of Petitioner’s 
hand-writing expert R A. Gregory. The Respondent No. 1 could not Identify 
in cross-examination his own signature on Ext. 8 when signature alone was shown 
to him and further stated that he would not be able to identify his other 
signatures if signatures only are shown to him after he had staled on seeing 
ihe entire Exhibits 5, 35, AR4 and A86 in examinatlon-in-ehief and the whole of 
Exls. 7 and 8 In cross-examination that thev bore his signatures. The Respondent 
No. 4 has stated on seeing the signatures of Respondent No. 1 on Exhibits 7 and 
8 through peglon-hole that they are not signatures of the Respondent No. 1 
although the Respondent No 1 has identified his siinatures on them when ho 
saw the whole of the exhibits and Gaiodhar (R.W. 27), who was appointed 
polling agent by the Respondent No J through Ext 7, has stated that he was 
polling agent of the Respondent No. 1. 

The Respondent No. 4 has stated that he came to know on inspecting Exhibits 
5 and 35 on 26 th June 1957 that they did not hear signatures of the Respondent 
No 1 and told the Respondent No. 1 and Respondent No. l’s counsel about it 
within 2-3 days of inspection. But he Is contradicted b''” the Respondent No. 1 
who has stated that he was not so told before his written statement being tiled on 
22nd July 1957. The Respondent No. 1 has further stated that he was not sure 
if the signatures on those exhibits were genuine or fictitious till 9th April, 1958 



322 T HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA S, 1881 [1*art II 


when his statement was recorded in oral pleadings and that he came to know 
about the signatures being fictitious when he consulted experts after 9th April 1958. 

The Respondent No. 4 has stated that the entire Exhibit 5 is filled up in the 
hand-writing of Prakash Chandra and that some words in Exhibit 36 are In 
the hand-writing of Mohan Lai Varma. He is materially corroborated about 
Exi. 5 by Gokaran Nath Bajpai (R.W. 38) who is admittedly cousin of Prakash 
Chandra Bajpai, and about Ext. 35 by Shyam Charan Varma (R.W. 39) who is 
permanent Secretary of the District Congress Committee Hardoi. The evidence 
of all thesei witnesses is inadmissible as there was no plea of the Respondent 
No. 1 about what they have stated. There should have been such plea as the 
Respondent No. 4 has stated that he had suspected Ext 5 to be In 
the hand-writing of Prakash Chandra Bajpai and found Ext. 35 to be in the 
hand-writing of Mohan Lai Varma when he inspected these exhibits on 26th 
June 1957 and, that he had told the Respt. No. 1 and the counsel for 
Respondent No. 1 about it within 2.3 days of inspection. 

The Respondents 1 and 4 have stated that the Respondent No. 1 had not 
appointed Jagdish Prasad and Daya Shankar as his polling agents. I have no 
hesitation in believing them on the point as I have already found that on the 
complaints of the Respt. No. 1 both Daya Shankar and Jagdish Prasad had 
come to grief before the general elections of 1957. 

It may be that some blank polling agency fortns bearing signatures of the 
Respondent No. 1 some-how came into possession of his enemieB and not only 
the names of Jagdish Prasad and Daya Shankar were filled in them but they 
were got produced before Presiding Officer through some fictitious person. 

It would not have been very difficult for the enemies of the Respondent No. 1 
to some-how get blank polling agency forms signed by the Respondent No. 1, 
us the Respondent No. 1 has stated that he had kept some such forms with the 
clerk of the District Congress Committee of which his political rival and petitioner’s 
well-wisher Mohan Lai Varma had been office bearer from 1940 to 1953. He 
has no doubt further stated that he had given such forms to only 10 Congress 
candidates for Assembly seats of his Parliamentary constituency but that is of 
little consequence as he has also stated that the forms given to the said candidates 
were only some of the forms which he had left with the clerk of the District 
Congress Committee. 

M. P. Sharma (P.W. 4), who was Presiding Officer, Hansbarauli polling centre, 
has stated that Ext. 5 was presented before him bv Daya Shankar but his evidence 
Is of little avail as he has stated that he did not know Daya Shankar from before 
and the parentage, occupation and residence of Daya Shankar are not given in 
the said form. 

It has been argued that Exts. 5 and 35 mav have been introduced subsequent 
to election as the envelopes containing polling agency forms wore opened for 
ascertaining the number of polling agents from April to June 1957 in the Collecto- 
rate Judicial Record Room of which Record Keeper was Shankar Singh who 
could be under obligation to the petitioner. In support of Shankar Singh being 
under obligation to the Petitioner reliance has been placed on the fact that 
Shankar Singh’s brother Jot Singh is Head Clerk of the Assessing Officer District 
Boaid Hardoi and the petitioner in his capacity as President of the District Board 
did not accept the advice of the District Magistrate and the Superintendent of 
Police to suspend him in 1957 when ho was involved in a case under section 390 
J.P.C. I see no force in that argument, although the facts on which It is founded 
are established, as the number of polling agents was compiled under the super- 
vision of Returning Officers and there is no evidence that the Returning Officers 
favoured the Petitioner or that the signatures of the Presiding Officers were 
obtained on the polling agency forms at the lime of the compilation of the 
number of polling agents. 

Jagdish Prasad Sinha fR.W. 7) has stated that he was Election Head Clerk 
from April to June 1957 when the number of polling agents was compiled through 
the Returning Officers and that. Shankar Singh was Judicial Record Keener in 
the Collectorate in May 1957. S K. D. Mathur (R.W. 71) has stated that he was 
Returning Officer of Hardoi Constituency and that the number of polling agents 
was compiled bv his staff under his supervision for Hardoi constituency in the 
Collectorate Judicial Record Room where the envelopes containing the coiling 
agency fo'-nv- were kent and opened. Respondent No. 4 -has stated that Shankar 
Sinch Is brother of Jot Singh who is Head Clerk of the Assessing Officer of the 
District Board Hardoi since before the last general elections. The Petitioner i3 
undlsputedly Vice-President of the Antrim Zila Parishad at present and was 



Sec, S (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1900/MAGHA 3, 1881 


323 


President of the District Board before the Antrim Zila Parishad was constituted. 
It appears from Exts. A6 to A9 and A20 that he had not accepted the advice 
of the Distt, Magistrate and the Superintendent of Police to suspend Jot j 3 
in spite ol Jot Singh being involved m a case under section 39b I.P.C. and tne 
matter had to be referred to Government. 


It has been argued for the Respondent No. 1 that the Returning Officers could 
not have exercised effective supervision as S. K D. Mathur has stated that be 
had gone for a short while to the Judicial Record Room when his stall compiled 
the number of polling agents. I see no force in that argument as the staff of 
the Returning Officer is to be presumed to have worked honestly and It is not 
even suggested that the staff had not done so. It has also b^n argued that the 
signatures on Ext. 5 of the Presiding Officer M. P. Sharma (P.W. 4) could have 
been obtained subsequent to the election as he is a sympathiser of . "? T n f. a ” g J , 
and has intimacy with Sri Ram Chaddha who is an Agent for the sale of National 
Savings Certificates and has intimacy with Petitioner who had got large amount 
of District Board funds invested in the Small Savings Scheme of which he is 
an organizer. The testimony of Shiv Lai Bhasin (R.W, 40) and the respondent 
No. 1 as well as Ex. A50 have been relied on in this connection hut they do 
not justify the conclusion for the reasons to be just staled. 


Shiv Lai Bhasin only has slated that M. P. Sharma is a sympathiser of Jan- 
sangh and he found him favouring Jansangh and opposing Congress in his talks 
at the house of Sri Ram Chaddha. I am no' prepared to believe him on the 
point as no suggestion was made to M. P, Lhanna in his cross-examination. It 
has been stated by the Respondent No. 1 that in January or February 1957 he 
had complained to S. K D. Mathur, District Election Officer verbally that M. P. 
Sharma should not be appointed Presiding Officer anywhere as he had Jansangh 
leanings but he is contradicted by S. K. D, Mathur (R.W, 71). It has 
been stated by S. K. D. Mathur that one day before polling 
the Respondent No. 1 requested him that M. P. Sharma be withdrawn from 
Purbawa polling centre in Sandila constituency as the polling centre was located 
in a Muslim graveyard and the staff appointed there was behaving in such a 
manner that there was apprehension of Hindu voters not turning up there. He 
has further specifically stated that the Respondent No. 1 did not ask him not 
to appoint M. P. Sharma Presiding Officer at any other polling centre in his 
constituency and that he did not remove M. P: Sharma as he found the complaint 
of the Respondent No. 1 to be baseless. It has been stated by both Shiv Lai 
and the Respondent No. 4 that M. P. Sharma has cordial relations with Sii Ram 
Chaddha who belongs to Jansangh. From the mere association of M. P Sharma 
with Sri Ram Chaddhu having 'Jansangh leaning it cannot be inferred that he is 
a sympathiser of Jansangh as he could associate with Sri Ram Chaddha cn 
account of being organizer of Small Savings Scheme and Sri Ram Chaddha being 
agent for the sale of National Savings Certificates according to both Shiv Lai 
and the Respondent No, 4 M. P, Sharma has admitted tfyat he is organizer and 
Sri Ram Chaddha Is agent of National Savings Scheme and that he knows Sri Ram 
Chaddha but has pleaded Ignorance about Sri Ram Chaddha belonging to Jansangh 
party. 

There can be no doubt about the intimacy of Sri Ram Chaddha with the 
petitioner as Ext. A56 proved bv Shiv Lai shows that the petitioner had appointed 
him counting agent on 20th March 1957, This intimacy could, however be of 
little avail in the absence of any evidence that Sri Ram Chaddha had in any way 
influenced M. P. Sharma. The Respondent No. 4 has stated that the petitioner 
had deposited Rs. 80,000/- through Sri Ram Chaddha in the National Savings 
Scheme in 1957 but his evidence on the point is inadmissible being hear-say. 
M. P Sharma could not recollect how mu"h amount Sri Ram Chaddha had got 
deposited by the District Board Hardoi and has stated that he had himself got 
Rs. 50 000/- deposited In 1955-56 by the District Board and 'about Rs. 45,000/- 
by the Adhyaksh Antrim Zila Parishad in 1947-48. Even "if the petitioner 
deposited anything on behalf of the District Board through Sri Ram Chaddha 
he could have done so as Sri Ram Chaddha is admittedly authorized agent of 
National Savings Scheme. 

It has been argued that M. P. Sharma’s leanings for Petitioner are evident 
from the fact that according to him Daya Shankar had worked throughout the 
day at the polling station although Daya Shankar could not have done so in 
view of Rule 22(l)(b) of the Representation of People (Conduct of Elections 
and Election Petitions) Rules. 1956 a s Ext, 7 reveals that Gaiodhar Prasad 
(R.W. 27) was the other polling agent for the same polling station. I see no 
force in that argument as M. P. Sharma has not definitely stated that Daya 
Shankar had worked throughout the day but has 3 imp]y stated that there being 



THE GA7ETTE OF INDIA JANUARY 23, 1060/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part II 


only two agency forms Exts. 5 and 7 both the polling agents appointed through 
them should be deemed to have worked throughout the day as there were two 
polling stations in Hansbarauli polling centre of which he was Presiding Officer. 
Obviously he did not notice that Exts. 5 and 7 are the polling agency forms for 
the same polling station and Ex, 8 proved by him is the polling agency form for 
the other polling station. He cannot be dubbed as partial to the Petitioner 
simply because he failed to notice that Exts. 5 and 7 are polling agency fofrns 
for the same polling station and Ex, 8 is polling agency form for the other polling 
station. 

The evidence about Daya' Shankar and Jagdish Prasad having actually 
worked as polling agents may now be considered. 

There is evidence of M. P. Sharma, BrijbalJabh Singh, Raghunath Singh, 
SnpaJ Singh, Baburam, Mahesh Bux Singh and Mihi Lai (P.Ws. 4, 47 to 51 and 
58) about Daya Shankar having worked as polling agent of Hansbarauli on 
8rd March 1957. Out of them the evidence of M. P. Sharma, BrijbalJabh Singh, 
Raghunath Singh and Mihi Eal is of little avail ns they have stated that they do 
not know Daya Shankar and consequently the person who according to them 
worked as Daya Shankar may not have been Daya Shankar lekhpal. The evidence 
of the remaining three witnesses, who knew Daya Shankar from before is un- 
acceptable as they are interested. They are cousins inter-se. Out of them Babu 
Rom and Mahesh Bux Singh were admittedly polling agents for Jansangh candi- 
dates, Surendra Nath and Jamman Singh respectively. Sripol Singh though a 
polling agent for Mahesh Singh a Congress candidate for Assembly, had 
admittedly voted for the Petitioner who was a Jansangh candidate, 

There is evidence of Gajodhar, Tilak, Niranjan Lai, Putan Lai. Loehan, Chhedi 
Lai, Shyam Behari and Shivnandan Lai (R.Ws. 27 to 32 and GO) in rebuttal of 
Daya Shankar having worked as polling agent for Respondent No. 1. Their 
evidence is also- worthless for reasons to be just stated. Gajodhar Prasad Putan 
Lai, Chhedi Lai, Shyam Behari and Shiv Nan dan Lai arc highly interested as Gajo- 
dhar and Chhedi Lai were polling agents of Respondent No. 1. Shynm Behari and 
Shiv Nandan Lai were polling agents for Kinder Lai and, Mahesh Singh respectively 
who were Congress candidates and Putan Lai was worker at the Congress camp. 
Chhedi T.al has even stated that he had selected polling agents for Congress 
candidates and Shiv Nandan Lai has stated that, ho had worked for Congress 
candidates. Tilak and Loehan could not. know who were polling agents as they 
are ehaukidars and were admittedly posted outside polling centre. They have 
even specifically admitted that there was no reason for them to remember the 
names of polling agents whom they have named. Thus they appear to be 
tutored witnesses. The presence of Naranjan Lai is, to sav the least, very doubt- 
ful as his polling agency form is not among the polling agency forms of Hans- 
barauli centre pboved hy M P. Sharma although he claims to have been pollin'' 
agent for Tika Ram. Gajodhar, Tilak, Niranjan Lai and Loehan did not 
admittedly know Daya Shankar lekhpal. Shyam Behari does not appear to 
know Daya Shankar as he hgs stated that there was no agent of the name of 
Daya Shankar. Putan Lai and Shiv Nandan Lai have not specifically stated 
that Daya Shankar did not work as polling agent. Pulan Lai only has stated 
that he knew Daya Shankar from before but that Is unlikely The only reason 
given by him for knowing him is that he had played cards with him for about 
2J hours about three years ago when he had gone to some village Dhubia. It 
is unlikely that he could have known Daya Shankar after having met him 
casually like this. The worthlessness of the evidence in reliance is however, 
of Utile consequence when the petitioner's evidence on the point has been found 
to he unsatisfactory 

There is evidence of Shaflq Khan, Azmat Ullah, Maiku Lai, Mohammad Raflq, 
Waris Ali. Ghulam Nabi and Mohammad Sami (P.Ws. 35 to 38 and 40 to 42) in 
supnnrt of Jaedish Prasarl having acted as polling agent of the rospondenl No 1 
af Junior High School Pihani on 9th March 1957. They could all be under the 
influence of Petitioner’s sympathiser and Respondent No. l’s opponent TTnmid 
Ali as they reside In Pihani of which the entire abadi belongs to Hamid Ali as 
has already been found Waris Ali, Ghulam Nabl and Mohammad Sami could 
be under the influence of Hamid Ali also because Waris Ali and Mohammad Snmi 
have admittedly iheir shops and Ghulam Nahl works as barber sitting on land 
belonging to Hamid All and Waris Ali does not admittedly pay anything for 
keeping shop on TIamid Ali’s land. Waris Ali could be under the influence of 
Hamid Ali for another \easnn It is +hat his nephew is the motor drive- of 
Hamid Ali. Waris Ali admitted at first that his nephew Akhtar is motor driver 
of Hamid Ah but in the next breath h e stated that the said nephew is not in 
the service of Hamid Ali but is employed with some one else in Pltapur He may 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDL4 : JANUARY 23, 1960/MACHA 3, 1881 325 


have made the subsequent statement on realizing the damaging ellect of his first 
statement. It has been argued that Ghulam Nabj could be under the influence 
oi Hamid Ali for the reason that Ghulam Nabi’s mother is in the service of Hamid 
Ali’s relation Mustafa Ali according to Abdul ITai (R.W. 25). I see no force 
in that argument as I arq not prepared to believe the uncorroborated statement 
of Abdul Hal on account of his lnterestedpess in the Respondent No. 1, especially 
when it was not even put to Ghulam Nabi that his mother was employed in ihc 
service ot Mustafa Ali and that Mustal'a All is a relation of Hamid Ali. It was 
put Lo Ghulam Nabi if his mother was in the service of Mustafa Ali but he "ate- 
gorically denied that fact. Further he pleaded ignorance about relationship of 
Mustafa All with Hamid All. 

Mohammad Ratiq could be under Die influence of the petitioner as he was 
admittedly polling agent of Jansangh candidate Ramlotan while Shaflq Khan, 
Azmat Ullah, and Maiku Lai could be under the influeive of petitioner’s ardent 
supporter and Respondent No. l’s political rival Mohan Lai Varma as Shaflq Khan 
and Azmat Ullah were admittedly polling agents of Nathu Lai and Maijrn Lai 
was admittedly polling agent of Ram Murtl who were set up as candidates by 
F.S.P r n which the founder and leader is Mohan Lai Varma, Shaflq Khan Azmat 
Ullah 1 id Mail'll Lai could not be independent also because Mohammad Raflq 
has stiusd mat they were workers and polling agents of the Petitioner. Azmat 
UJlah’s attachment with Mohanlal Varma is also evident from the fact that he 
had admittedly resigned from Congress when Mohan Lai Varma was expelled 
from it in 1953. 


The only evidence in rebuttal of Jagdish Prasad working as polling agent for 
respondent No. 1 is of Abdul Hai (R.W. 25). I am not prepared to believe his 
uncorroborated testimony on account of his interestedness. He had admittedly 
supported the 110 -confidence motion against Hamid All’s Presidentship of Pihani 
Municipal Board in 1955 when the Respondent No, 1 did not lend his support 
to Hamid All as has already been found. He was further admittedly Congress 
candidate for Municipal Board Pihani in the last Municipal Election. He had 
also admittedly supplied lo the Respondent No. 1 Ex. A42 which has been utilized 
for comparison _ of the hand-writing of Prakash Chandra Ba.ipai in it with that 
in Ex, 5 acco ding to Hari Singh, P. R. Mahant and M. K, Mehta (P.W. 49, 51, and 
52) of whom Ilgri Singh is the photographer and the other two are hand-writing 
experts. 

In rebuttal of Petitioner's evidence reliance has also been placed on the state- 
ment of Jagdish (P.W. 24) that Jagdish Prasad was at Mansoor Nagar polling 
centre throughout the day when polling took place there and the polling at that 
centre had taken place on 9th March 1957 according to Chetey Lai (R.W. 45) who 
has also corroborated Jagdish on the point, t see no force in that argument as 
I am not prepared to believe Jagdish and Chhntey Lalf about Jagdish Prasad having 
rem, lined at Mansoor Nagar polling centre throughout on 9th March 1957 in view 
of Jagdish Prasad having been found to have cast his vote at Pihapi on that 
very date. 


The unsatisfactoriness of the evidence in rebuttal is, however of little conse- 
quence when the Petitioner’s evidence on the point has been found to be unsatis- 
factory. 


For the above reasons I hold that the Petitioner has failed to prove that the 
Respondent No. 1 appointed Daya Shankar and Jagdish Prasad as his canvassers 
and polling agents and they worked as such. The issue is consequently decided 
in negative. 

Issue No. 9(a) 


It has been argued that the Respondent No. 4 is an unnecessary party as ho 
had admittedly withdrawn from the contest and reliance has been placed in 
support of it on Section 82(a) of the R.P. Act. I see no fcrcc in that argument 
as the Respondent No. 4 is a necessary party under section 82(b) of the R~P Act 
In view of allegations having been made against him of corrupt practice on behalf 
of his uncle Respondent No. 1. It has also been argued that the provisions of 
Section 82(b) of the R.P. Act arc inapplicable as no allegations of any corrupt 
practice were, made against the Respondent No. 4 in his own Interest. I see no 
form in that argument as the said provisions are not confined to allegations of 
any corrupt practice by the candidate in his own interest. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA S, 1881 [Part II 


Issue No. 9(b) 

The. respondent No. 4 is not entitled to special costs in view of Issue No. 9(a) 
having been decided against him. 

Issue No. 10. 

The Petitioner is not entitled to any relief. He should, on the other hand, 
pay costs to Respondents Nos. 1 and 4 who have contested the petition. The issue 
Is decided accordingly. 

Order 

The election petition Is dismissed. The Petitioner should pay Rs. 1000/- to 
the Respondent No. I and Rs. 200/- to Respondent No. 4 as costs. 

(Sd.) Khadim Ali, 
Member, Election Tribunal, 
Hardoi, at Shuhjahanpur. 
30th October. 1959. 

M. All. 

Let the record be sent to District Judge, Hardoi after requisite copies of the 
judgment have been sent to the Election Commission. 

(Sd.) Khadim Ali, 
Member Election Tribunal. 

30-10-59. 


W, a. 5200 
No. 7/1-12-59. 

Appeal Clerk 

Copy of order passed by Shri Jagdish Misra, Member Election Tribunal 
Hardoi in Election Petition No. 476 of 1957. 

Instituted on: — 8th May, 1957. 

Ordered on: — 3rd Maxch, 1958. 

Sri Niranjan Singh Dcv t/ Age 60 years. Son of Thakur Ratan Singh, R/o 
Village Nil', District Hardoi— Petitioner. 

Versus 

1. Sri Chedalal, R/o White Ganj, Hardoi, 

2. Sheo Din, R/o village and Post Office Gopamau, Tahsil and District 

Hardoi. 

3. Shri Kinderlal, R/o Mohalla Idrisgunj, District Hardoi, 

4. Sinsh Chandra Agarwal, R/o Whiteganj, Distt. Hardoi— Respondents. 

This is an election petition under sections 80 and 81 of the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951. It relates to Parliamentary Constituency No.- 362, which 
is a double member constituency and out of the two seats one is reserve for 
scheduled caste. There were five candidates to the election to the said constituency. 
They were Sri Niranjan Singh Dev (petitioner), Sri Chheda Lai (Respondent 
No. 1) Sri Sheo Din (Respondent No. 2), Sri Kinder Lai (Respondent No. 3) and 
Sri Sirish Chandra Agarwal (Respondent No, 4). Out of the said candidates, 
respondents Nos. 2 and 3 belong to scheduled caste. The petitioner and the 
respondent No. 2 were candidates of Jan Sangh party and the respondents 
Nos. 1 and 3 were candidates of the Congress party. The petitioner and the 
respondents Nos. 1 to 3 contested the election and the respondent No. 4 withdrew 
from it. The voting took place on several dates from 25th February 1957 to 
14th March 1957. The countings of votes took place between 20th of March, 1957 
and 25th of March 1957. As a result of the countings the respondents Nos. 1 and 
2 were declared elected on 25th March, 1957, Thereafter, on 9th May 1957, the 
present election petition calling in question the election of the respondent No. 1 
was presented. The petitioner alleged that the respondents Nos. 1 and 3 were 
set up by thei Congress and their election propaganda during election was joint, 
that the election of the respondent No. 1 was void and liable to be set aside on 



fee. 3 (ii)] THE' GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3; 1881 


the grounds enumerated in para 6 o f the election petition, that but for the votes 
obtained by the respondent No. 1 by corrupt practices the petitioner would have 
obtained the majority of valid votes and that both the., respondents Nos. 1 and 3 
incurred disqualifications. The petitioner further, in his petition, gave out that 
ho had deposited as security the sum of Rs, 1,000, the receipt of which was enclosed 
with the petition. The petitioner prays that the election of the respondent No. 1 
be declared void and the petitioner be declared to have been duly elected. He 
further prays that the respondents Nos. 1 and 3 be disqualified and the costs of 
the petition be also allowed to him. 

The respondents Nos. 1, 3, and 4 contest the election petition. The respondent 
No. 2 does not contest it. The respondent No. 1 has further given notice under 
section 97 of the said Act and has complied with the provisions of giving security 
under the said section. 

The contesting respondents, inter-alia raised the pleas that the deposit of 
security made by the petitioner was not valid, that the election petition was 
liable to be dismissed under section 90(3) of the Act 43 of 1951 for non-compliance 
with the provisions of section 117 of the said Act, that the election petition was 
time-barred, and that the election petition was not presented by the proper 
person to the proper authority. The following preliminary issues, which relate 
to the said pleas, have first been taken up for decision. 

Issues 

1. Is the deposit of security made by the petitioner valid? Is the election 
petition liable to be dismissed under section 90(3) of the Act No. 43 of 1951 for 
non-compliance with the provisions of section 117 of the said Act? 

2. Is the election petition time-barred? 

3. (a) Was the election presented by the proper person? 

(b) Was the election petition presented not to the. proper authority? 

Finding 


Issue No. 1. 

Section 117 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 runs as follows: — 

“ Deposit of security. — The petitioner shall enclose with the petition a 
Government Treasury receipt showing that a deposit of one thousand 
rupees has been made bv h m either in a Government Treasury or 
in the Reserve Bank of India in favour of the Secretary to the 
Election Commission as security for the costs of the petition”. 

The petitioner enclosed a Government treasury receipt of Rs. 1,000 (vide Ex. 
Cl with the petition. Its contents show that he had deposited Rs. 1,000 as security 
in respect of the election petition on 7th May 1957. It is said on behalf of the 
contesting respondents that the following two requisites are lacking in the receipt: — 

(1) It is not mentioned in the receipt that the deposit is made in favour 

of the Secretary to the Election Commission. 

(2) It is not mentioned that the security is for costs of the petition. 

It is said that as the said two requisites are lacking, so the deposit is defective 
and not- in accordance with the provisions of section 117 of the said Act and as 
such' the petition is liable to be dismissed under section 90(3) of the- said Act it is 
initially urged that' the Chief Election Commissioner (Representing the Election 
Commission) has given a finding that the petition presented is defective and, 
therefore, it is not open to this Tribunal to go behind that finding and this 
Tribunal, as indicated by the order, dated 14th May 1957 of the Chief Election 
Commissioner, should find out whether the defect is curable or not and iE it is 
not curable then it should dismiss the election petition. It is said that there 
is no provision in the said Act making the said defect curable so this tribunal 
must dismiss the election petition. The relevant portion of the order, dated 
14th May 1957, of the Chief Election Commissioner runs as follows: — 

“The Treasury Chalan. filed with the petition is defective inasmuch as the 
deposit has not been made in favour of the Secretary to the Election 
Commission. This may make it difficult for the costs, if any. ordered 
against the petitioner to be realised out of the deposit. It will be for 



328 THE gazette or India : January 2s, i 96 o/magha 3, ism [Part 11 


the Tribunal to decide during trial alter hearing the parties whether 
the defect in the deposit is latal or may be cured e.g. by a lresh 
uepcvit or otherwise, so as to safeguard the Respondents' right to 
qo Is, 1 .uiy, awaided in their tavern”. 

It may be obstrvt.i lie _ , Dial the Chief ^’lection Commissioner passed the above 
01 dei v. T hcn no election tribum x was aj t united and when the respondents had 
no notice of the election petition. On oth June 1957, the Chief Election Com- 
missioner passed the. following order: 

"Under section 36 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, an Election 
Tribunal consisting of Shri Jagdish Misra, "District and Sessions Judge, 
Ilardoi, is appointed for the trial of thi.-. petition; and under section 
88 of the said Act, Hardoi is appointed as the place of trial. The 
4th July J957, is fixed as the date in Ihe first appearance of the 
paities before the Tribunal. Issue nolicc on the parties accordingly. 

Forward the petition in original i > the Tribunal. The original 
treasury chalan should bo Kept m the Commission in safe custody and 
an attested copy thereof may 1 _nt to the Tribunal for the present,” 

It may be noticed that in the ordei, doted 6ih Jim 1957 theie is nothing to show 
that this order is subject to the previous nrdt_, a 14th May 1957. In other 
words, the Chiei Election Commissioner, while lixv adding the petition to the 
tribunal, made no direction that the tribunal wou d „,d c the deposit as defective 
and proceed to find out if the defect is fatal or curable. Eve it it be assumed 
that orders on the order-sheets, read together indx ate that the Chief Election 
Com mission ci did give such a direction, still there is noihi'ng in Ihe Act to Show 
that he had any power to do so. Section 85 of the Act runs as foTows: — 

‘‘Procedure on receiving petition . — If the provisions of section 81 or section 
82 or section 117 have not been complied with, the Election Com- 
mission shull dismiss the petition: 

“Provided that the petition shall not be dismissed without giving the 
petitioner an opportunity of being heard”. 

If the Chief Election Commissioner finds that the deposit is not in at. c. dime with 
the provisions of section 117 of the said Act, then he should uismi a me election 
petition under section 85 of the said Act. There is no provision to wairant the 
submission that the Chief Election Commissioner should give, a finding about the 
deposit Iremg defective und leave it to the tribunal lo dismiss the petitu Section 
90(3) of tlic' Said Act runs as follows: — 

“The Tribunal diall dismiss an election petition which does not comply 
with the. provisions of section 81, section 82 or section 117 notwith- 
standing that it has not been dismissed by the Election Commission 
under section 85”, 

The provisions of section 90(3) of the said Act indicate that even if the Election 
Commission finds the deposit to be valid and so does not dismiss the > etion 
petition still it ife open to the Tribunal lo give its own decision on the pc, ill and 
if it coincs to the conclusion that the said provisions have not been complied with 
it shall dismiss the election petition. This shows that the findings of the Election 
Commission in respect of the deposit have not binding effect upon this Tribunal. 
In view of the ubove state ol affairs, the alleged noting or the alleged finding in 
respect of the. alleged effect in the deposit can not guide the decision of this 
Tribuhal on the point. 

It was next urged that as the two requisites have not been complied with so 
apart from the contents o 1 the order-sheet, dated 14th May 1957, this Tribunal 
should dismiss the election petition. The learned counsel for the contesting 
respondents filed certain rxti aordinary ,U.P. Gazettes containing orders of certain 
Tribunul on , the point not citing them as rulings but adopting the reason given 
therein as his arguments. The learned counsel for the petitioner filed a Copy of 
order of the .Hon’ble High Court, Allahabad, in a writ petition and a copy of the 
order of the Hon’bic Madias High Court in certain writ petitions (vide papers 
Nos. 142C and 143C). The older of the Hon’blc High Court Allahabad was passed 
by a bench of two Hon’ble Judges and the order was delivered by the Hon’blc 
Mr, Justice V. Bhaigava. In that case before their Lordships the treasury challan 
did not contain u recital that the deposit was in favour of the Secretary to the 
Election Commission. Their Lordship held that as the ‘Head’ mentioned in the 
treasury challan was correct, so Secretary to the Election Commission has full 
disposing power over the- money and as such the alleged omission was immaterial. 



Sec, 3 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 329 


As there is a direct ruling of the Hon’ble High Court, Allahabad, on the point., so 
there is no practical use to refer to the orders of the various Tribunals and the, 
aion.said order of the Madras High Court, 

It was said on behalf of the contesting respondents that in the receipt in the 
case before their Lordships of High Court, it was given that the deposit was as 
security for the costs whereas in the present case the receipt does not contain it, 
so the aforesaid ruling does not cover the present case. The ‘Head’ of the deposit 
given in the receipt in question is for security for costs of the election petitions. 
As Ihe ‘Head’ is admittedly correctly given in the receipt, so it would necessarily 
show that the deposit is as security for costs of the election petition, 

111 view of the above state of affairs, I hold that the deposit of security made 
by the petitioner is valid and the election petition is not liable to be dismissed 
undej section 90(3) of the Act No. 43 of 1951 for the alleged non-compliance with 
the provisions of section 117 of the Act, The issue is decided accordingly. 

Issue No. 2, 

The date of the election of the returned candidate, i.e. respondent No. J, whose 
election is called in question by the election petition is admittedly 25th March 
1957 The date of tile presentation of the present election petition is 9th May 
1957 as is evident from the endorsement on the petition and the deposition of 
Sri Mohan Lai Verma. 

The relevant portion of section 81, which prescribed the limitation may be 
given below: — 

"Presentation oj Petitions.— (1) An election petition calling in question any 
election may be presented on one or more of the grounds specified 
m sub-section (I) of section 100 and section 101 to the Election Com- 
mission by any candidate at such election or any elector within forty- 
five days from, but not earlier than, the date of election of the 
returned candidates, or if there ar e more than one returned candidate 
at the election and the dates of then- election are different, the later 
ol' those two dates”. 

Explanation . — In thifc sub-section, "elector’’ means a person who was entitled 
to vote at the election to which the election petition relates, whether 
he has voted at such election or not. 

If 25th March 1957 is excluded in computing the period of 45 days then the election 
petition is within 45 days from the date ol election and if it is included in com- 
puting the period of 45 days, then the election petition is barred by time by one 
day. It is urged on behalf of the petitioner that the provisions of section 9 of 
the General Clauses Act (Act X of 1897) arc applicable m this case and the date 

of election i.g. 25th March 1957 should be excluded in computing the period 

of limitation. The version of th e contesting respondents is that the provisions of 
the said section of Ihe said Acl arc inapplicable so the date of election can not 
be excluded in computing the period of 45 days so the election petition is barred 
by time. Section 9 of the General Clauses Act runs as follows:— 

“9(1) In any Central Act or Regulation made after the commencement of 
this Act, it shall be sufficient, for the purpose of excluding the first 
in a series of days or any other period of time, to use the word 
"from” and, for the purpose, of including the last in a series of days 
or any other period of time, to use the word “to”. 

(2) This section applies also to all Central Acts made after the third day 

of January, 1888, and to 'all Regulations made on or after the 

fourteenth day of January, 1887." 

It is said on behalf of the contesting respondents that section 9 of the said Act 
applies when the period of limitation is denoted us from such and such date to 
such and such date, I find myself unable to agree with this view because the 
two clauses in the said section, one relating to ‘from’ and the other relating to ‘to’ 
are not interdependent but are independent ones, It was further said that 
because of use of the phrase ‘but not earlier than’ it is apparent that an election 
petition can be presented even on the date of the election so in computing the 
period of limitation the date of election should be included. Simply beckuse an 
election petition can be filed on the date of election, it does not necessarily follow 
that this date shall be included m corpputing limitation and the provisions of 
section 9 of the General Clauses Act Would be ignored, The learned counsel 



330 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA S, 1881 [Part II 

for the petitioner produced before me a copy of the extraordinary U.P, Gazette, 
dated 20th February 1957 in which the judgment of the Election Tribunal of 
Saharanpur in election petition No. 37 of 1957 (Sri Nitya Nand Swami Vs. Sri BriJ 
Bhushan Saran) was published, In that case before the Tribunal issue No. 29 was 
about limitation as in the present case. The Tribunal, while deciding this issuer 
observed; 

“The petition was presented within the prescribed period of 45 days in case 
the date of election is not to be counted in computing the period of 
limitation, but if both the dates of election and the date of presenta- 
tion of the petition were to be included in computing the period of 
limitation, the petition would be time barred by one day. Section 
81(1) of the Representation of the People Act, lays down that an 
election petition may be presented within 45 days from, but not 
earlier than, the date of the, election of the returned candidate. It 
was urged before me that the words “but not earlier than” were of 
great significance and can lead to the only inference that the" date 
of the election was also to be included in computing the period of 
limitation. I do not agree with this contention. The provisions con- 
tained in section 81(1) are similar to the provisions applicable to 
ordinary suits. The limitation Act speaks of the filing of the i suits 
within a certain period from the date of accrual of the cause of 
action. As laid down in the General Clauses Act, the date of cause 
of action has to be excluded, i.e., both the date of cause of action 
and the date of presentation are not to be included in - computing the 
period of limitation though a person is at liberty to institute the suit 
on the very date the cause of action had accrued. In other words, 
therefore even though a person has a remedy before the ordinary 
courts of law to seek redress on thei date the cause of the action 
accrued, that date has to be excluded in determining the period of 
limitation. The wordings of section 81 (,1) lead me to the same 
inference. It merely provides that no election petition can be 
presented before the date of election, i.e., on the dates preceding the 
declaration oti the result of election. This was apparently incorpo- 
rated so that no one may present an election petition in anticipation 
of the result Of the election. One of such cases will be where the 
nomination papers of some, candidate had been improperly rejected. 
If such a candidate has the intention to challenge the result of the 
election by presenting an. election petition, he could do so before the 
date of election by impleading all the candidates, who had not with- 
drawn from election." But when it is provided in section 81(1) that 
no election petition can be presented earlier than the. date of election 
this would merely signify that the presentation would not be valid 
if the petition is presented before the result of the election is declared. 
The presentation will, however, be proper if the petition is presented 
on the date of the election, may be a few minutes before the actual 
declaration of the result, provided that the result of election is 
formerly declared that very day, In other words, the only meaning 
which can be given to section 81(1) is that an election petition to 
challenge the result of election can be presented within 45 days from 
the date of election and for computing the above period the date, of 
election shall have to be excluded. Issue is decided against the 
respondent.” 

I find myself in agreement with the reasonings given by the Election Tribunal, 
Saharanpur, while deciding the said issue, and there is no use to reiterate the 
same,. No other decision of any Tribunal or High Court was produced before me. 
The issue is decided in the negative. 

Issue No. 3(a) 

The provisions of the Act relating to presentation are contained in section 81 
of the Representation .of People Act. Sub-section (1) of this section has already 
been quoted and sub-section (2) may be quoted below: — 

An election petition shall be deemed to have been presented to the. Election 
Commission— 

(a) when it is delivered to the Secretary to the Commission or to such other 
Officer as may be appointed by the Election Commission in this 
behalf — 

(i) by the person making the petition, or 



Sec. S (it)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23. I960/MAGHA 3, 1881 33 I 


(ii) by a person authorized in writing in this behalf by the person making' 
the petition, or 1 

(b) when it is sent by registered post and is delivered to the 'Secretary to 
the Commission or the office so appointed.” 

The version of thei petitioner is that the petitioner authorized Sri Mohan Lai 
Verma (P.W. 3) in writing (vide Ex. 2) to present his election petition to the 
Election Commissioner and Sri Mohan Lai Verma delivered the petition to Sri Dm 
Dayal, Under Secretary to Election Commissioner who was appointed by the 
Election Commission in this behalf. It is said that under the aforesaid circum- 
stances, Sri Mohan Lai Verma was the proper person to present the petition. It 
was said on behalf of the contesting respondents that the alleged letter of authority 
(Ex. 2) is a power of attorney under section 2(21) of the Stamp Act and as such 
it ought to have been stamped, under Article 48 of the Stamp Act and, as it was 
not stamped, so it was a useless paper and Sri Mohan Lai Verma could not 
present the petition acting under the authority of this letter. The letter (Ex. 2) 
may be reproduced below: 

“To 

The Secretary, 

Election Commission of India, 

New Delhi. 

Regarding election held on various dates between 25th February, 1957 to 14th 
March, 1957 to the House of People (Constituency No. 363), double member, 
constituency, Hardoi. 


Sir, 

I was a candidate from the Hardoi constituency as detailed above in 1957. This 
election was held between 25th February, 1957 and 14th March, 1957. Shri Chheda 
Lai, resident of Whitegunj Hardoi has been declared elected on 25th March, 1957. 

I am filing this petition challenging the above election through Shri Mohan Lai 
Verma, M.L.A., son of Sri Prag Dutt, resident of Ashraf Tola. Hardoi before the 
Election Commission. 

I am authorising Shri Mohan Lai Verma M.L.A. to present this election petition 
before the Election Commission of India. Any corrections made by him will be 
binding on me. Anything done by him shall be binding upon me. This authority 
is being given in accordance with section 81(2) ( a) (ii) of the Representation of 
People Act. 

Yours faithfully, 

(Sd.) Niranjan Singh DeV.” 

Lucknow; 

8th May, 1957. 

Witnesses:— 1. Hans Raj Anand. 

2, Devi Dayal. 

Sub-section (21) of section 2 of the Stamp Act runs as follows: 

“ ‘Power of attorney' includes any instrument (not chargeable, with a fee 
under the law relating to court-fee s for the time being, in force) 
empowering a specified person to act for and in the name of the> 
person executing it". 

In order that the alleged letter of authority may come within the purview of 
‘power of attorney’, it must be, (1) an instrument empowering a specified person 
(21 to act for and (3) in the name of the person executing it. Unless all the 
aforesaid three ingredients are satisfied, the alleged letter of authority can not 
come within the purview of attorney. It was urged on behalf of the petitioner 
that Sri Mohan Lai Verma was not empowered to act in the name of the petitioner, 
so the said letter could not come within the purview of attorney. It was said 
on behalf of the contesting respondents that the use of the word ‘through’ in the 
last sentence of the first paragraph of the letter indicates that Sri Mohan Lai Verma 
was empowered to act in the name of the petitioner, I find myself 
unable to agree with this view because the sentence, indicates that 
Sri Mohan Lai Verma was to act as a carrier and not to act in the name of the 



33 2 


I HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part II 


petitioner. It is true that the phrase 'in the name of the person executing it’ 
need not specifically find place in the document but there can be no doubt that 
it must necessarily be inferred from its contents before it can be termed ‘power of 
attorney’. The letter, read as a whole, shows that Sri Mohan Lai Verma was 
authorised to present the petition before the Election Commission and not to act 
in the name of the petitioner. As the aforesaid third ingredient is found, to be 
wanting in the present case, so the said letter cannot be said to be a power of 
attorney and as such it is not a useless paper. No particular mode of writing or 
form is prescribed, by the Act or by the Rules for authorising the person who 
is sent to deliver the petition, so it was open to the petitioner to authorise Sri Mohan 
Lai Verma by the executing of the document (Ex. 2) as it is. Under the circum- 
stances, I am of the opinion that the election petition wus presented by the proper 
person- The issue is decided in the affirmative. 


Issue No. 3 ( b ) . 

The version of the petitioner is that Sri Mohan Lai Verma delivered the 
petition to Sri Din Dayal, Under Secretary who was appointed by the Election 
Commission in this behalf, so the election petition shall be deemed to have been 
presented to the Election Commission, be., the proper authority under section 81 
of thei said Act. It was said on behalf oLthe contesting respondents that there 
is no evidence that Sri Din Dayal was appointed by the Election Commission in 
this behalf. The learned counsel for the petitioner relies on the deposition of 
Sri Din Dayul and the contents of a Hand Book for Candidates published by the 
Election Commission India, in 1957. Sri Din Dayal in his deposition, said, ‘I was 
also authorised by the Election Commission to receive election petitions in 
accordance with the provisions contained in the part VI of the Representation 
of People Act, 1951, by the notification No. 83/55/90658,. dated 9th September 
1955”. The above statement of Sri Din Dayal was not challenged by any further 
cross-ex&mination. It was, however, according to section 81 of the said Act, 
he should have been ‘appointed’ in this behalf. There appears to be no difference 
in substance in what section 81 of the said Act requires and what Sri Din Dayal 
deposed to. So long as the sense in the context is the same, the mere use of a 
different word (i,e... usuing the word ‘authorised’ for the word ‘appointed’ is 
immaterial. The deposition of Sri Din Dayal on the point that he was appointed 
in this behalf finds corrobration in the contents of para 118 (vide pages 48 and 
49 of the aforesaid Hand Book). Para 118 of the Hand Book (vide pages 48 and 
49) runs as follows: — 

“The election petition must be presented by delivery to the Secretary to the 
Election Commission or the Under Secretary to the Election Com- 
mission — 

(i) by yourself personally; or 

(ii) by any other person authorised in writing by you; or 

(iii) by registered post. 

N.B.— (a) The petition must be posted sufficiently in advance of the last date 
so as to ensure the actual physical delivery of the same before such last date 
to the Secretary or the Under Secretary to the Election Commission. 

(b) If the petition reaches the Secretary Pr the> Under Secretary to the Com- 
mission after the last date for its presentation has expired, it will be dismissed as 
time-barred, The Election Commission no longer has tho power to condone any 
delay.” 

It is not disputed that the said Hand Book has been published by the authority 
of the Election Commission and that Sri Din Dayul was Under Secretary on the 
date 1 concerned. 


It was said on behalf of the contesting respondents that according to the 
alleged authority, Sri Mohan Lai Verma was authorised to present the election 
petition to the Election Commission and not to Sri Din Dayal. It is further said 
that the endorsement on the petition shows that it was presented to Sri Din Dayal 
and not to the Election Commissioner. The use of the word ‘presented’ for 
‘delivered’ in the endorsement made by Sri Din Dayal while receiving the petition 
from Sri Mohan Lai Verma. does not seem to be of any material significance as 
there is no difference in substance and delivery of the petition to Sri Din Dayal 
shall bei deemed to be presentation to the Election Commissioner under section 81 
of the said Act. 



Sec, 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 


333 


After considering the submissions of the learned counsel for the contesting 
respondents in respect of this issue, I come to the conclusion that they have no 
material force. Under the circumstances, I am of the opinion that the contention 
of the contesting respondents that the election petition was not presented to the 
proper authority is untenable, f hold that the election petition was presented 
to the proper authority. The issue is decided accordingly. 

Order 

In view of the above findings on issues Nos. 1 to 3 this petition does not fail on 
preliminary issues, so it shall proceed on merits. 

(Sd.) Jagdish Misra, 
Member Election Tribunal, Hardoi. 


The 3rd March , 1958. 


[No. 82/476/57,] 


New Delhi, the 16 th January 1960 

S.O. 175.— In pursuance of Section 106 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 (43 of 19511, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order pro- 
nounced oil the 2nd January, 1960 by the Election Tribunal, Simla. 


BEFORE THE MEMBER OF THE ELECTION TRIBUNAL, SIMLA 
Election Petition No, 9 of 1959 

Shri Avinash Chander Schgal, M.A., Managing Editor, The Weekly Peace, 18, 
Western Court, New Delhi. — Petitioner. 

Versus 

1. Shri Shiva Nand Barnaul, President Congress Committee, Himachal 

Pradesh, Simla. 

2. Shri Hira Singh Pal, President, P. S. P., Simla. 

3. Shri Kameshwar Pandit, C/o, Communist Party Simla, — Respondents. 

Order 

The above cited petition calling in question the election of Shri Shiva Nand 
Ramaul, respondent No. 1, as a member of the House of the People from Mahasu 
Constituency of the Union Territory of Himachal Pradesh came up for hearing 
to-day. The hearing had been fixed for the evidence of the parties and also for 
arguments. The election Clerk cited by the petitioner is present alongwith the 
summoned record, but the petitioner has absented himself. Respondent No. 1 is 
however, present with his counsel Shri M. L. Aukta. No intimation or request 
for adjournment has been received from the petitioner. He was awaited till the 
end of the day’s work. It is already 4 p.m, and as the petitioner has not turned 
up, the election petition is hereby dismissed for default. The petitioner is further 
burdened with the costs of respondent No. 1, which is assessed at Rs. 200. 
Announced, ' I 

Tej Singh Vaidya, 

Member, Election Tribunal, Simla. 

Kclleston, Simla-1. 

The 2nd January, 1960. 


[No. 82/9/58.] 
By Order, 

2. B. LAL, Under Secy. 



334 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part II 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 14 th January 1960 

S.O. 176. — In exercise of the powers conferred, by entry 3(b) of the table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Kanwar Vijaya Bahadur Singh, heir-apparent of the Jagirdar 
of Naigawan Rebai, for the, purpose of that entry and directs that the exemption 
-Shall be valid in respect of 1 gun/rifle and 1 pistol/revolver. 

[No. 16/1/60-Police IV.] 
C. P. S. MENON, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 15 th January 1960 

S.O. 177. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following further amendments 
In the Schedule to the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) 
Rules, 1957. published with the notification of the Government of India In the 
Ministry of Home All'airs No. S.R.O. 607, dated the 28th February, 1957, namely: — 

In Part II of the said Schedule, — 

(1) against the entry — 

“Central Excise Service, Class II- — Superintendents, Class II (including 
Deputy Headquarters Assistant to the Collector) and District Opium 
Officers, Class II”, in column 1 — 

(a) after the entry “Director of Inspection” in column 3, the entry “Director 
•of Revenue Intelligence” shall be inserted; 

(b) in columns 3 and 4, against the item “(ii) any other member of the Service”, 
•after the existing entries, the following entry shall be inserted, namely: — 


3 


4 


"Deputy Director, Revenue Intelligence (i) to (iii)”; 


(2) against each of the entries "Customs Appraisers Service, Class II Appraisers”, 
.'Customs Preventive Service, Class II Inspectors”, 

(a) after the entry "Director of Inspection” in column 3, the entry 

"Director of Revenue Intelligence” shall be inserted; 

(b) after the existing entries in columns 3 and 4, the following entries 

shall respectively be Inserted, namely:— 


3 


4 


"Deputy Director, Revenue Intelligence (i) to (iii)”; 

(3) against each of the following entries in column 1, — 

"Customs Appraisers Service, Class II— Principal Appraisers and Head 
Appraisers”, 

“Customs Preventive Service, Class II— Chief Inspectors”, 

•after the entry "Directory of Inspection” in column 3, the entry "Director of 
Revenue Intelligence” shall be inserted. 


[No. F. 7/24/59-Ests(A) .] 
B. N. TANDON, Dy. Secy. 



Sec. S (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23. 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 335 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 13 th January 1960 

S.O. 178. — In pursuance of clause (3) of article 77 of the Constitution and of 
all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the President is pleased to make 
the following amendment in' the Delegation of Financial powers Rules, 1968, 
namely, 

Amendment No. 31 

In the said rules, the schedule VII [as amended by Amendment No. 4 issue 
vide this Ministry’s Notification No. F. 12(6)-E, 11(A) / 59 , dated the 7th September, 
19591, the following may be substituted for the existing entry defining the powers 
of the Departments of the Central Government relating to deficiencies and depre- 
ciation in the value of stores: — 

Deficiencies and depreciation in Ministry of Food & Agricul- Losses on foodgrains— Rs. 
the value of stores included in lure (Department of Food). 25,000. 

the stock and other accounts. (ii) other cases — Rs. 10,000. 

Other Departments of the 

Central Government. Rs. 10,000. 


[No. 12(l)-E.II(A)/60.] 
R. R. SAVOOR, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 14 th January 1960 

S.O. 179. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (2) 
of section 72 of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956 (37 of 1956), the President 
Hereby declares — 

(a) that from and out of the Consolidated Fund of the State of Travancore- 

Cochtn, the sum specified In column 3 of the Schedule annexed to 
this Notification amounting in the aggregate to the sum of fourteen 
thousand, two hundred and fifty-five rupees shall bo deemed to have 
been duly authorised to be paid and applied to meet the amount spent 
for defraying the charges in respect of the service specified in column 
2 of the said Schedule during the financial year ended on the 31st 
day of March, 1954, in excess of the amount granted for that service 
and for that year; and 

(b) that the sum deemed to have been authorised to be paid and applied 

from and out of the Consolidated Fund of the State of Travancore- 
Cochin under this Notification shall he deemed to have been appropriated 
for the service and purpose expressed in the said Schedule in relation 
to the financial year ended on the 31st Day of March, 1954. 

The Schedule 




Excess 


I 1 2 

Voted 

Charged 

3 

Total 

i. XII — District Administration 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

ar.d Miscellaneous, 

14.255 


14.255 


[No. F.18(22)(i)-B/59-] 



THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : JANUARY 28, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part II 


33 6 


S.O. 180. — In exerci.se of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (2) 
of section 72 of the Slates Reorganisation Act, 1956 (37 of 1956), the President 
hereby declares — 

(a) that from and out of the Consolidated Fund of the State of Travancore- 

Cochin, the sums specified in column 3 of the Schedule annexed to 
this Notification amounting in the aggregate to the sum of one lakh, 
four thousand seven hundred and twenty-one rupees shall be deemed 
to 1 have been duty authorised to be paid and applied to meet the 
amounts spent for defraying the charges in respect of the services 
specified In column 2 of the said Schedule during the financial year 
ended on the 31st day of March, 1955, in excess of the amounts granted 
for those services and for that year; and 

(b) that the sums deemed to have been authorised to he paid and applied 

from and out ’ df the Consolidated Fund of the State of Travaneore- 
Cochin under this Notification shall he deemed to have been appro- 
priated for tbe services and purposes expressed in the said Schedule 
in relation to the financial year ended on the 31st day of March, 1955. 

The Schedule 


Serial 

No. 

Service and Purpose 


Excess 



Voted 

Charged 

Total 

I 

2 


3 




Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

I. 

VII— Motor Vehicles Acts 

22,091 

, . 

22,091 

2. 

XII — District Administration and 
Miscellaneous 


3, q 93 

3,993 

3 . XXXVII — Capital Outlay on Industrial 
Development. 


S 0,2163 

59,263 

4. 

XLII — Loans and Advances bearing 
Interest, 


19,374 

19,374 


Total 

22,091 

82,630 

1,04,721 


INo, F.18(22)(il)-B/59.] 
SHIV NAUBH SINGH, Jt. Secy. 



(Department of Economic Affairs) 


iVeui Delhi, the 14th. January 1960 


S. O. 181 — Sta'ement uf (he Affairs ul die Reserve Baikal India. a., on the fth Janucrj :<j6 . 

Banking Department 


Liabilities 

Rs 

Assets 

Rv 

Capital paid up 

5 , 00 , 30,000 

Notei 

12,93.21,030 

Reserve Fund 

So-oopo/xw 

Rupee Coin 

2,99,000 

National Agricultural Credit (Long-term 


Subsidiary Coin 

3, 69,000 

Operations) Fund 

30,00,00,000 



National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) 


Bills Purchased and Discoumed : - 


Fund 

400,00,000 





(a) Internal 


Deposits : — 


(f>) External 


(a) Government 


(r) Government Treasury Bills 

43,12,16,000 

(1) Central Governmeni 

64,36,51,000 

Balances held abroad* 

4S,35,36 /x» 

(2) Other Governments 

12,53,82,000 

**Loaas and Advances to Governments . 

24.54,85.000 

(6) Banks 

68,24,73,000 

Other Loans and Advancest 

102,89, 13,000 

(.c) Others 

12243,16,000 

Investments 

18345,62,000 

Bills pavable 

15,07,69,000 

Other Assets 

12,87,71,000 

Other Liabilities 

31,58,75,000 



Total 

433^4=71,000 

Total 

433=24,71,000 


* Includes Cash & Short-iercn Securities. 


•♦Iacfude* Temporary Overdrafts to State Government!, 

IThe itetn ‘Otter Loan* and Advances’ includes R* . 344,90,000/- advanced to scheduled banks against usance Dill* under Section 37 (4)(c) of the 
Reserve Bank of Indii Act. 

Dated the 13th day of January, i960 


I 


to 

to 

-^1 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA. JANUARY 23, I960/MAGHA 3, 188] 



An Account pursuant to the Rewire Bank of India Act, 

Issue 


Liabilities Rs. Rs, 

Note* held in the Banking 
department , 12,93,21,000 

Note* in drcutotioo 1775,08,02,000 

TotaJ Notes issued 1788,01,23,00c 


Total — Liabilities 


1788,01,23,000 


Dated the 13th d*y ol January, i960. 



THE GAZETTE OF INPIA . JANUARY 23, 1 S 6 O/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part II 



339 


Sec, 8 (ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; JANUARY 23, I960/MAGHA 8, 1881 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

Income-tax 


New Delhi, the 1th January, 1960 

S O. 182, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of Section 5 
of the Indian Income-tax Act 1922 (11 of 1922) the Central Board of Revenue here- 
by directs that for the words "Tanjore Circle” appearing as "item 0” against 
“Tiruchirapalli Range” under the sub-head “XII-Madras” in their notification 
SO 1015 No, 53 Income-tax dated the 27th April 1959 the following words shall be 
substituted namely: — 

‘‘Thanjavur Circle”, 

[No, 3 (F. No. 50/12/00-IT.)] 


New Delhi, the 1 2th January, 1900 

S-O. 183. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (6) of Section 5 
of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922) the Central Board of Revenue 
hereby makes the following further amendments in the Schedule annexed to its 
notification S.R.O. 1214 No, 44-Inconie-tax, dated the 1st July 1952, namely: — 


In the said Schedule, for the word “Tanjore” appearing in columns 1 & 2 
against item 78(f) the following word shall be substituted.- namely: — 


"Thanjavur” 


[fro. 4 (F. No. 55/3/00-IT.) 1 


New Delhi, the I5th January 1960 

5.0. 184. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of Section 
5 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922) and in partial modification of 
all previous notifications on the subject, the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
directs that Shn N. H. Naqvi a Commissioner of Income-tax, shall perform all 
the functions of Commissioner of Income-tax in respect of such areas or of such 
persons or classes of persons or of such incomes or classes of incomes or of such 
canes or classes of cases as are comprised in the Income-tax Circles, Wards or 
Districts in the State of Andhra Pradesh: 

Provided that he shall also perform his functions In respect of such persons 
or of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income-tax Authority subordinate to him: 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
persons or of such cases as have been or may be assigned to ,any Income-tax 
Authority outside his jurisdictional area. 

While performing the said functions the said Shri Naqvi shall be designated 
as the Commissioner of Income-tax, Andhra Pradesh with headquarters at 
Hyderabad. 

This notification shall take effect on and from the 5th January I960 (forenoon). 

Explanatory Note 

Note. — The amendments have become necessary due to change in the incumbent 
of Commissioner's post, 

(The above note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to 
be merely clarlflcatory) . 

[No. 5(F. No. 55/1/60-IT.) ] 

5.0, 185. — In exercise of the -cowers conferred by sub-section (2) of Section 
8 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922) and in partial modification of 
all previous notifications on the subject, the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
directs that Shri B. M. Mitra a Commissioner of Income-tax, shall perform all 
the functions of Commissioner of Income-tax in respect of such areas or of such 
persons or classes of persons or of such incomes or classes of Incomes or of such 
cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the Income-tax Circles, Wards or 
Districts in the State of Mysore: 

Provided that he shall also perform his functions In respect of such persons 
or of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income-tax Authority subordinate to him: 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
persons or of such cases as have been or may be assigned to anv, Income-tax 
Authority outside his jurisdictional area. 



340 


l'HE GAZE1 TE or INDIA ■ JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Pam II 


While performing the said functions the said Shri Mitra shall be designated 
as the Commissioner of Income-tax, Mysore, with headquarters at Bangalore. 

This notification shall take effect on and from the list January 1060 (forenoon). 

Explanatory Note 

Note. — The amendments have become necessary due to change in the incumbent 
of Commissioner’s post 

(The above note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to 
be merely clariflcatory) , 


[No. 6(F No. 55/1/60-IT.)] 


CORRIGENDUM 

Income-Tax 

New Delhi, the 13 th January, 1960 

8.0. 186.— In exercise of the, powers conferred by sub-section (2) of Section 5 
of the Indian Income-tax Act 1922 (11 of 1922) tne Central Board of Revenue 

hereby directs that 

(a) in their notification No. 121. Income-tax dated the 23rd November 

1959 which appeared on pp. 3296-3297 of Part II Section 3(ii) of the 
Gazette of India dated the 28th November, 1959 as S.O. 2809 for the 
existing entry “Special Survey Circle IV” against “item No. 19” the 
following entry shall be substituted, namely : — 

“Special Survey Circle VI”. 

(b) the Board’s Corrigendum No. 127-Income-tax dated the 8th December 

1959 which appeared on page 3447 of Part II Section 3(11) of the 
Gazette of India dated the 19th December 1959 as S.O. 2763 shall be 
treated as cancelled. 


[No. 2(F. No. 55/27/59-IT.)] 
D. V. JUNNARKAR, Under Secy. 


OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE: GOA 
FRONTIER DIVISION, BELGAUM 

Belpaum, the 11th January 1960 
To 

Shri Ganapat Narayan Vargatekar of Sal. (Goa). 

S.O, 187. — Whereas a notice to show Cause issued to you under the Land 
Customs Act, 1924, Imports and Exports (Control) Act 1947 and Foreign Exchange 
Regulation Act, 1947 is pending in the office of the undersigned, you arc requested 
to take delivery of the said notice on uny working day within thirty day s from 
the date of publication of this intimation failing which the case will be decided 
exparte. 

[No. VIII(b) 10-453/59.1 


To 

Shri Dayanand Krishna Kini of Margao. (Goa.) 

S.O. 188. — Whereas a notice to Show Cause issued to you under the Land 
Customs Act, 1924, Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947 and Foreign Exchange 
Regulation Act, 1947 is pending in the office of the undersigned, you arc requested 
to take delivery of the said notice on any working day within thirty days from 
the date of publication of this intimation failing which the case will be decided 
exparte. 


[No. VIII (b) 10-422/59-1 



Sec. S (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 


S.O. 189. — Whereas It appears that the goods as mentioned in the under- 
mentioned table seized m the vicinity of the Indo-Goa border, where imported 
from Gen m contravention oi the Rules ar.d Notifications as mentioned against 
each. ' 


SI. DucS piece By wiiom Description of goods Quantiiy Rules contravened 

No, of Seizure dciecied 


i 


4 


5 


6 


i. 27-5-1038. at Inspector, "(Du- (1) 7 ‘O’clock Biajcs izo 

Masukacta stoms and Made in England. canons. 
(North Kanara). Central bx- (2) Rustproof spring 57b 

che Flying press studs ‘'555” Dozen 1 . 

Squade, Ankola. made in Germany. 

(3) Canvas Bag . One 
(.41 Old co 1 ton chad- Two 
dai. 

t5) Old livcrcttdv Bat- One 
tery. 

1,6) CoLion Bag . One 


The Govt, ot India Mini- 
stry of Commerce and 
Industry, Import (Con- 
trol) Older No. 17/55 
dt. 7-12-55 as subse- 
quen ly amended issued 
under Section 3(u) & 
4(A) of the Impor.s and 
lixpons (Control) Act, 
1947 and further deemed 
to have been issued 
under section 19 of the 
Sea Customs Act, itijli. 


2. Now, therefore, any person claiming the goods is hereby called upon to 
show cause to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise, and Land Customs, Goa 
Frontier Division, Belgaum why the above-mentioned goods should not be con- 
fiscated under Section IU3) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 read with Section 167(8) 
of the Seu Customs Act, 1878, and why a penalty should not be imposed on him 
under Section 7(1) (c; of the Land Customs Act, 1924 read with Section 167(8) of 
the Sea Customs Act, 1878. 

3. II such an owner fails to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed 
goods or to show cause against the action pioposed to be taken within 30 days 
from the date of publication of this notu e in die Government of India Gazette, the 
goods in question will be treated as unclaimed and the case will be decided 
accordingly. 


[No. VIII (b) 10-175/59.] 


Belgaum. the 12th January 1960 


To 


( 1 ) Shri Damodar Somu Naik of Borim, Goa. 

(2) Shri Namdeo Jaga Naik ol Savai, Geram, Goa. 

S.O. 190. — -Whereas a notice to show cause issued to you under the Land 
Customs Act 1924, Imports and 'Exports (Control) Act 1947, is pending in the 
cilice of the undersigned, you are requested to take delivery of the said notice 
on any working day within thirty (30) days from the date of publication of this 
ihtimation failing which the case will he decided exparte. 

LNo. VIII(b) 111-42/59.] 
E. R. SRIKANTIA Asstt. Collector. 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE, DELHI. 

CENTRAL EXCISF 

New Delhi, the 16th January 1860 

S.O. 191, — In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Rule 5 ol the 
Central Excise Rules, 1944, I hereby empower the Central Excise Officer specified 



342 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA B, 1881 [Part II 


In the following table to exercise within their jurisdiction the powers of ‘Collector* 
specified in Rule enumerated in column (2) of the Bald table. 

Table 


Rank of Officer 


Central Excise Rule Limitation, if any 


l 


2 


3 


Assistant Collectors Rule 224(1) 


[No. C. IV(8)2/59.] 
B. D. DESHMTJKH, Collector. 

_ ' 1 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 13th January 1960 

S.O. 192, — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub-clause (1) of 
clause 3 of the Cotton Control Order, 1955, I hereby direct that the following 
further amendment shall be made in the Textile Commissioner’s Notification 
No. S.O. 2045, dated the 8th September, 1959, namely: — 

In Schedule ‘A’, against MCU-1, for the existing figures under columns 12, 13, 
14 and 15, the figures “165”, “215”. “305” and “425” respectively shall be substi- 
tuted. 

(Sd.) D. S. Joshi, 
Textile Commissioner. 


[No. 24(6)-TEX(A)/59.] 
HARGUNDAS, Under Secy. 


(Rubber Control) 

New Delhi, the 16 th January 1960 

S.O. 193.— In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(3) of section 4 of the Rubber Act, 1947 (24 of 1947) read with sub-rule (4) of 
rule 3, of the Rubber Rules, 1955, the Central Government hereby nominates Shri 
K. Gopalan as a member of the Rubber Board in the vacancy caused by the resig- 
nation of Shri C. E. Bharathan. 


[No. F. 15(14)./Plant (B)/58.] 
P. V. RAMASWAMY, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 12th January 1900 

S.O. 194. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Spirituous 
Preparations (Inter-State Trade and Commerce) Control Act, 1955 (39 of 1955), 
the Central Government hereby directs that the power to make rules under 
Section 3 of the said Act shall be exercisable also by the State Government of 
Madhya Pradesh subject to the condition that the rules made by the said State 
Government shall have no effect in so far as they are repugnant to any order or 
rule made under the said Act by the Central Government, 

TNo. 32(5)-Com(Genl)/59.1 

S.O. 195. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (c) of section 2 of 
the Spirituous Preparations (Inter-State Trade and Commerce) Control Act, 1955 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 343 


(39 of 1055), the Central Government hereby specifies the State of Madhya Pradesh 
as being a State in parts of which the consumption of alcoholic liquors is generally 
prohibited by law. 


[No. 32(3)-Com(Genl)/50.] 
M. P. MATHUR, I.F.S. Dy. Secy. 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 14th January 1960 

S.O. 196. — In the order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce 
& Industry No. S.O. 1346/IDRA/6/14, dated the 1st July*, 1958, in paragraph 1, 
against the category of “persons who in the opinion of the Central Government are 
capable of representing the interests of persons employed in industrial undertakings 
in the said scheduled industries’’, for the entry “14. Mr. C. M. Stephen, C/o INTUC 
Kerala Branch, 70 Feet Road, Emakulam’’, read "14. Shrl C. M. Stephen, Congress 
House, Quilon, Kerala State.” 

[No. 4(34)IA(II)(G)/68.] 
A. K. CHAKRAVARTI, Under Secy. 


(Indian Standards Institution) 

New Delhi, the 13th January 1960 

8 . 0 . 197 . — In pursuance of sub-rule (1) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards 
Institution (Certification Marks) Rules, 1955, the Indian Standards Institution 
hereby notifies that the Standard Mark, design of which together with. the verbal 
description of the design and the title of the relevant Indian Standard is given 
In the Schedule hereto annexed, has been specified. 

This Standard Mark, for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution 
(Certification Marks) Act, 1952 and the rules and regulations framed thereunder, 
shall come Into force with effect from 1st February 1960. 

The Schedule 


Design of the Standard Mark No. and title of. relevant Verbal description of the 

Indian Standard design of the Standard Mark 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 



IS :774: 1957-Specification for The monogram of the Indian 
Flusing Cisterns for Water Standards Institution, 

Closets and Urinals. consisting of letters ISI, 

drawn in the exact style and 
relative proportions as in- 
dicated in column (1), the 
number designation of the 
Indian Standard being Ins- 
cribed in the ton side of the 
monogram as indicated in 
the design. 


[No. MD/17-2.3 

/ 

S.O. 198 — In pursuance of sub-regulation (3) of regulation 67 of the Indian Standards 
Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, the Indian Standards Institution hereby 
notifies that the marking fee per unit for Flushing Cisterns, details of which are given' in the 
Schedule here to annexed, has been determined and the fee shall come into force with effect 
from 1st February, i960. 



344 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA JANUARY 23, 1%0/MAC,HA 3, 1881 [Part 11 
. The Scheduie 


Serial Product/Class of Products No. and title of relevant Unit Marking Tee 

No. Indian Standard pci Unit 


i Flushing Cistei ns, IS : 774-1*157 Specification for One Cistern 25 Nayo Pai'e 

Flushing Cisterns for water 
Closets and Urinals. 


[No. MD/11-2] 

New Delhi, the 14 th January 1960 

S.O. 199- In pursuance of sub- regulation (3) ot regulation n of the Indian Standards Ins- 
titution (Certification Marks) Regulations. 1955, the Indian Standards Ins'itution hereby notifies 
that he marking fee per unit for Biscuits, details of which are given inthe Schtdule hereto annexed 
has been deterrhied and the fee shall come into force with effect from 1st February 1960. 

The Schedulf 


SI. Product/Class cf No. and title of relevant Unit Marking Fee per Unit 

No. Products Indian Standard 


t. Biscuits (excluding IS : ion-1957 Specification One Ton Rs. 1-25 nP. 

wafer biscuits) for Biscuits) Excluding 

Wafer Biscuits). 


[No. MD/i8-z(i)J 

S.O 200. — In modification of the rate of marking fee for Toilet Soap, notified in Serial No. 
3 of the Schedule annexed to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (Indian Standaids Institu- 
tion) Notification No. S.O. 1293 dated 29 May 1959 published in the Gazette of India Pari II — 
Section 3, Sub-Section (ii) dated 15 Tunc 1959, the Indian Standardb Institution hereby notifies that 
the marking fee per unit for Toilet Soap, del ails of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed 
has been amended. The amended rate of marking fee shall come into force with immediate effect. 



The Schedule 


Producr/Class 
of Product 

No. and til le of the Relevant 
Indian Standard 

Unit 

_ Marking Fee per unit as 
Amended 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

( 4 '> 

Toilet Soap 

IS : 284-T951 Specification for 
Toilet Soap 

One Ton 

50 naye paise per unit for the 
first 3,cdo units, with a mini- 
mum of Rs. i,oco for produc- 
tion during a calendar year. 
25 nayc paise per unit for the 

3 00 ist unit and above. 

\ 


[No, MD/t8-i(2) ] 

S.O. 201 - In modification of the rate of marking fee notified in the Schedule annexed to the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry (Indian Standards Institution) No, S.Q, 1741 dated 31 July 
1959, published in tlw Gazette of Inaia, Pail II- Section 3 Sub-scction (it) dated 8 August 1959 
ihe Indian Standards Institution betehv notifies that the marking fee per umr for Sodium Thic- 
sulphatc Photographic Grade, details of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed, has been 
amended. The amended rate of marking fee shall come into force with immediate effect. 





345 


Sic. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, I960/MAGHA 3, 1881 


The Schedule 


Product/Class No. ard Title of the Relevant Unit Marking Fee per Unit as 

of Product Indian Standard Amended 


U) 


(V (3) (4) 


Sodium Thio- IS : 2 - 16-1957 Sodium Thio- 
sulphate, - sulphate (Revised) 

Photographic 
Grade. 


One Ton Rs. 4 'do per unit, with a mini- 
mum of Rb. 1 , 200-00 for pro- 
duction during a calendar 
year. 


[No. MD/l 8 - 2 ( 3 ).] 

S.O. 202. — In pursuance of su|>rule (1) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards 
Institution (Certification Marks) Rules, 1955, the Indian Standards Institution 
hereby notifies that the Standard Mark, design of which together with the verbal 
description of the design and the title of the relevant Indian Standard is given in 
the Schedule hereto annexed, has been specified. 

This Standard Mark, for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution 
(Certification Marks) Act, 1952 and the rules and regulations framed thereunder, 
shall come into force with effect from 1st February 1960. 

The Schedule 


Design of the Standard No. and title of relevant Indian Verbal description of the design of the 
Mark Standard Standard Mark 


1 


2 


3 



IS .1011-1957 Specification for The monogram of the Indian Standards 
Biscuits (Excluding Wafer Institution, consisting of letters ISI, 
Biscuits) drawn in the exact style and relative 

proportions as indicated in column (1), 
the number designation of the Indian 
Standard being inscribed in the top 
side of the monogram as indicated 
in the design. 


[No. MD/17-2.] 
C, N, MODAWAL, Dy. Director (Marks). 


MINISTRY OF STEEL, MINES AND FUEL 
(Department of Mines and Fuel) 

New Delhi, the 12th January 1960 

S.O. 203, — Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the 
Department of Mines and Fuel (Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel), S.R.O. No. 309, 
dated the 18th January, 1958, under sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Coal 
Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Central 
Government gave notite of its intention to prospect for coal in the lands measurin'g' 
2,729 Acres in the locality specified in the Schedule appended to that Notification 
and re-produced in the Schedule I appended hereto; 

And whereas out of the said lands by the Notifications of the Government 
of India in the Department of Mines and Fuel, (Ministry of Steel. Mines and Fuel), 

S.O. 1070, dated the 8 th May, 1959. S.O, No 2771, dated the 11th December, 1959, 
and S.O. No. 2772, dated the 12th December, 1959, the Central Government made 


346 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 19G0/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Fart li 


a declarations under sub-section (1) of section 9 of the said Act only in respect 
of the lands and rights, in or over such lands mentioned in the Schedules II, III 
and IV respectively appended hereto; 

And whereas in respect of the remaining lands no notice under sub-section 
(1) of section 7 of the said Act has been givep; 

Now, therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by the said sub-section (1) 
of section 7, the Central Government hereby specifies further period of one year 
commencing from the 18th January, i960, as the period wit hip which the Central 
Government may give notice of its intention to acquire the said remaining lands 
or any rights in or over such lands. 

Schedule — I 

Plan No. HQ/LA/ 1 7(sh owing lands notified for prospecting) 

JHIRKI— MAHLIBAND BLOCK 


SI. 

No. 

Name'of Village J 

Thana 

No. 

Name of Thana District 

Area 

Remarks 

I 

Jhirki 

120 

Gomia 

Hazanbagh 

Acres Part (excluding 
480 working Colliery 

2 

Palatii 

119 


Do. 

375 

Do. 

3 

Bondh 

ns 


Do. 

115 

Do. 

4 

Mahlibandh 

113 


Do. 

5U 

Do. 

5 

Bhurkundwatanr . 

1x4 


Do. 

115 

Do. 

6 

Borca 

115 

3 3 

Do. 

429 

Do. 

7 

Kathara 

117 


Do. 

701 

Do. 





Tota Area 

3729 

Acres 


Boundary Description: 

AB line passes along Western boundary of Village Jhlrki. 

BC line passes along Western boundary of village Palam. 

CD line passes along Southern Bank of River Boltaro. 

DE line passes along Western boundary of Colliery Jarangdlh. 

EF line passes along Southern boundary of Colliery Jarangdlh. 

FG line passes along Southern boundary of Village Jarangdlh. 
GH line passes along Northern bank of River Damodar. 

HA line passes along Southern boundary of Village Jhirki. 


, Schedule — II 

Plan No. LA/16/58 (showing lands acquired) 
BLOCK— I 


SI. 

No. 

Village 

Thana 

Thana 

No. 

Distric 

Area 

Remarks 

I 

Kathara 

. Gomia 

117 

Hazanbagh] 

, Acres 

5-68 

Part 





Approximate 



Total Area . 5 ’68 Acres (Approximately) 


Plots to be acquired, — 416(Part), 808(Fart), 809(Part). 
Boundary Description: 

AB line passes through Plot Nos. 416, 809 and 808. 

BC line passes through Plot Nos, 808, 809 and 416. 

CD line passes through Plot No. 416. 




Sec. S (li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MACHA 3. 1881 


DE line passes through Plot No. 418. 
EF lino passes through Plot No. 416. 
FG line passes through Plot No. 416. 
GA line passes through Plot No. 416. 


BLOCK-2 


si. Village Thana T' ana District Area Remarks 

No. No. . 


50 '62 

.1 Kathara Gomia. 117 Hazaribagh Acres. Part. 


Total Asea . 50-62 (Approximately) 

Acres 


Plots to be acquired. — 808(Part), 847(Part), 849(Part), 870(Part), 871(Part), 
872, 873<Part). 877(Part), 878(Part), 880(Part'), 881(Part), 884(Part), 
886(Parl), 887 ( Part), 888 to 894, 895(Part), 896(Fart), 900(Part), 

913(Part), 954(Part), 956(Part), 95B(Part), 959(Part), 90I(Part), 

9R0(Part), 981(Part), 982(Part), 1029(Part), 1035(Part), 1036(Part), 
1048 (Part). 

Boundary Description; 

KL line passes through Plot' No. 808. 

LM line parses through Plot No. 808. 

MN line passes through Plot Nos. 808, 1048. 881. 

NO line passes through Plot Nos. 881, 880, 873. 

OP line passes thiough Plot Nos. 873. 877, 878, 870. 

PO line passes through Plot No. 870. 

OR line passes through Plol Nos 870, 887, 884, 8B6, 982. 

RS line passes through Plot Nos 982. 887. 

ST line passes through Plot Nos. 887, 982, 

TU-line passes through Plot No. 982 

UV line passes through Plot Nos. 982, 959, 981. 

VW line passes through Plot No. 981. 

WX line passes through Plot Nos. 981, 961, 980 1029, 1030 upto common 
boundary of village Kathara and Jarangdih). 

XY line passes along the common boundary of village Kbthara and 
Jarangdih. 

YZ line started from the common boundary of village Kathara and 
Jarangdih and passes through Plot No. 1029. 

ZA line passes through Plot No. 1029 
1 1 

A — B line passes through Plot Nos, 1029, 1035 
1 1 

B — C line passes through Plot No. 1029. 

I 1 

C— D line passes through Plot Nos. toz 9 j 981. 

T I 

D — -E line passes through Plot No. 981. 

1 1 

E — F line passes through Plot Nos. 981, 980. 

T I 

F — G line passes through Plot No. 980, 

T I 

G — H line passes through Plot Nos. 980, 981 , 

1 T 

II — I line passes through Plot No. 981. 

1 1 

I — J line passes through Plot Nos. 981, '959, 978, 956 and 982, 
t 1 

J — K line passes through Plot No. 982. 



348 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23. lllfiO/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Pa*t II 


I I 

K — L line passes through Plot Nos. 9821 954, 887. 
it 

L — M line passes through Plot No. 887. 

1 1 

M — N line passes through Plot Nos. 887, 913. 900,, 895, 896, 870. 

IX 

N — O line passes through Plot No. 870 

I 1 

O — P line passes through Plot Nos. 870, 871, 849, 1048. 

II 

P — Q line passes through Plot No. 1048, 

1 1 

Q — R line passes through Plot No. 1048. 

I 1 

R — S line passes through Plot No. 1048. 

1 1 

S — T line passes through Plot Nos. 1048, 847, 8 08. 
x 1 

T — K line passes through Plot No. 808. 


BLOCK-3 


SI. Village Thana Thana District Area Remarks 

No. No. 


1 Kathira Gomia 117 Hazarjbagh za - 22 Acres Part 

(Approximate) 


Total Area 24-22 Acres 

(Approximately) 


Plots to be acquired : — 8o8(Part), 823(Part), 82a(Part), 826(Part), 827(Part), 828(Part), 844(Part) 
845(Part), 846, 847 (Part), 849(Part), 850(Part), 8si(Part)j 852(Part), 
853. 854, 855(Part), 856(Part), 863(Part), 864(Part), 86s(Part), 866 
(Part), 867, 868(Part), 869, 87o(Part), 87i(Part), 887(Part), 895(Part), 
89fi(Part), 897(Part;, 898, 899, 900(Part), 9oi(Part), 90 2 (Part), gWPart;, 
914, 9t5(Part), 926(Part), 927(Part), 928(Part), 9J3(Part), 

i048(Part). 


Boundary Description: 

1 x 

U-V line passes through Plot Nos. 824, 808, 847, 1048. 

1 I 

Y-W line passes through Plot Nos. 1048, 847, 852. 

1 1 

W-X line passes through Plot Nos. 852, 830, 831, 849. 

1 1 

X-Ylinc passes through Plot No. 849. 

1 1 

Y-Z line passes through Plot Nos. 849, 871, 870, 895, 896, 897, 900, 913, 887, 953. 

1 2 

Z-A Iihe passes through Plot Nos. 953, 887, 928. 

2 2 

A-B line passes through Plot Nos. 928, 887, 027, 926, 915, 913, 900, 901, 902, 863, 864, 865, 866, 

868, 851, 852, 856, 855, 844, 845, 808, 828, 827. 

2 2 

B-C line passes through Plot Nos. 827, 823, 826, 808. 

2 2 

C-D line passes through Plot Nos. 808, 824. 

2 1 

D-U line passes through Plot No. 824, 



349 


Sec. 8 (ii)J THE GAZETTE or INDIA: JANUARY 23, F)fiO/MAGHA 3, 1881 




BLOCK-4 


SI. 

No. 

Village 

Thana Thana District 

No. 

Area Remarks 

I. 

Kathara 

Gomia 1 17 Hazanbagh 

4 '15 Acres 
(Approximate) 



Total : 

4-15 Acres 
(Approximately) 

Plots to be acquired : — 

4i6(Part), 398(Part), 407(Part), 409(Part), 4io(Part), 4ii(Part), 412 
(Part), 4i3(Part), 4i4(Part), 8io(Part), 8i3(Part), 8l4(Part), 821 (Part). 


Boundary Description: 

E-F line passes through Plot No. 41 6. 

2 2 

F-G line passes through Plot No. 416. 

2 2 

G-H line passes through Plot Nos. 416, 410, 411, 412. 

22 

A-I line passes through Plot Nos. 412, 414. 

2 2 

I-J line passes through Plot Nos. 414, 810, 813, 814. 

2 2 

J-K line passes through Plot Nos. 814, 813, 810, *414, 398,1821. 
2 2 

K-L line passes through Plot Nos. 821, 398, 413, 409. 

2 2 

L-M line passes through Plot Nos. 409, 407, 4x6. 

2 2 

M-Elinc passes through Plot No. 416. 


Schedule *-11 1 

Drawing No. Rev. 133 / 39 . 
(■ Showing lands acquired) 
BLOCK-I 


SI. 

No. 

Village 

Thana 

Thana 

No. 

District 

Area 

Remarks 

I 

Bandh 

Gomia 

118 

Hazaribagh 1 

13-88 Acres 

Part 

2 

Kathara 

Gomia 

1x7 

Hazsribagh f 







Total Area 

13 • 88 Acres 







(Approximately) 



Plot Nos. to be acquired in village Bandh ; — i4i8(Part), i4i9(Parr), t42o(Part), i42i(Part), 
i432(Part), 1424, i42j(Part)j i426(Part). 

Plot Nos, to be acquired in village Kathara : — 

39i(Part), 392(Part), 394(Part), 395(Part), 396(Part), 397(Pert), 39S(Part), 399(Part), 400(Part), 
40l(Part), 402fPart), 403(Part), 406, 407(Part), 408, 409(Part), 4l3(Part), 4i6(Part), 82i(Part), 
404(Part), 405(Part). 



3?o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 28, 1960/MAGFTA 3, 1881 [Past II 


Boundary Description: 

AB line passes through plot Nos. 1421, 1418, 1419 in village Bandh. 

BC line passes through plot Nos. 1419, t42o, T421, 1422, 1425, 1426 in village Bandh 
and 396, 397 ; 395 , 394 , 39 ^, 399, 39U 4°°, 4°L 4% 403,404, 405, 407, 416, 409, in village 
Kathara. 

CD lihe passes through plot Nos.~409, 413, 398, 821 , in village Rathara and upto RiverDamodar 
DA line passes along the Left Bank of River Damodar, 


BLOCK-II 


SI. Village Thana Thana District Area Remarks 

No. No. 


X. Kathara Gomla 117 Hazaribagh 22-50 Acres. Part 


Totat. Area 22 ■ 50 Acres 

(Approximately) 


Plot Nos. to be acquired in village Kathara : — 

398(Part), 4i4(Part), 8o8(Part), 8io(Part), Bi3(P0ri 8i4(Part), 815 to 820 , 821 (Part), 822, 
823(ParC), 824(JPart), ’825, 82<5(Part), 827(Part), 828(l>.irtl, 829 to 843, S44(Part), 845(P E 'rt), 
85i(Part), 852(Part), 855(Part), 856(Part), 857, 858, 859, 862, 864(Part), 86s(Part), 866(Part), 
868(Part), 

Boundary Description.: 

DE line passes through plot Nos. 821 , 399 414 , RIO, 813 , 8U, 823 , 824 , 808 
in village Kathara. 

EF line passes through plot Nos. 808 , 823 . 823 , 827 in village Kathara. 

FG line passes' through plot Nos 827 . 828 , 808 , 845 , 844 , 855 , 858 , 852 , 851 , 
868 , 866, 865 , 864 in village Kathsri 

GH line passes through plot No. 864 a- rl along the Eastern boundary of 
plot Nos. 862 and 859 , upto Loft Bank of River Damodar. 

HD line passes along the Left Bank of River Damodar, plot No. 821 . 


SCHEDUT F-IV _ 

Plan No. Rev/ 31 ' 59 - 
(Showing lands acquired) 

MAHLIBANDH BLOCK SUB BLOCK ‘C 


SI. 

No. 

Village 

Thana 

Thana 

No. 

Distiict 

Arga 

Remarks 

I. 

Bandh 

Gomia , 

118 

Haztribagh 

0-50 Acres 
(Approximate) 

Part , 

3 . 

Mahlibandh 

Gomia 

113 

Hazaribagh 

5-25 Acres 

Part 


Totai Arpa . 5-75 Acres 

(Approximately) 


Plot Nos. to be acquired in village Bandh : — 659(Part), 66o(Pnrt), 774(part)', 775(Part), 776 
(Part). 

Plot Nos. 10 be acquired in village Mnhlibandh 2io(Part), 92X(Part), 924(Part), 92<(Partt, 
926(Pan), 927fPart), 92B(Parr), 029, 930(Part), 9.331 Pari), 93l(P»rt), 93t(ParO, 938(Part), 
,939(Part), 94o(Part), 941, 942, 943(PJrt), 944(Part), 953(Part), 954(Part). 



351 


Sec. A (ii)J THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1260 /MAG HA 3, 1881 


Boundary Description : 

AB line passes through village Bandh Plot No. G59 in village Mahlibandh Plot 
Nos. 925 and 210. 

BC line passes through village Mahlibandh Plot Nos. 210, 924, 923, 930, 933, 
934, 944, 943, 953 and 954. 

CD line passes through village Mahlibandh Plot Nos. 954, villagfe Bandh 
770, 774 and 775. 

DA line passes along the Northern boundary of Kathara Block 1 (M.R.) 


SUB -BLOCK ‘D* 


SI. 

No. 

Village 

Thana 

Thana 

No. 

District 

Area 

Remarks 

1. 

Mahlibandh 

Gomia 


Hazaribagh 

3 ■ 70 Acres 
(Approximate) 

Part 

2 . 

Kathara 

Gomia 

117 

Hazaribagh 

3-05 Acres 

Part 





Total Area 

6-75 Acres 



(Approximately) 


Plot Nos. to be acquired in village Mahlibandh : — i266(Part), i268(Part) 3 l269(Part) 3 1270 
1 Part A tJ39(Patt), 134°; t34t(Part) 3 i350(Part). 

Plot N03. to be acquired in village Kathara: — i(Part), 4(Part) 3 5(Part), 6(Part) 3 7(Pert), 
8(Parljj 8y(Part), 93(Parl), 95(Part), i06(Part) 3 107, i047(Part). 

Boundary Description: 

KE line passes through village Mahlibandh Plot No. 1266, 

EF line passes through village Mahlibandh Plot No. 1266 1269, 1270 and 
1339. 

FG line passes through village Mahlibandh Plot Nos. 1339 1350 and 1341. 
GH line passes along the Western boundary of Kathara block 1(A.R.) Plan 
‘B’. 

HI line passes through village Kathara Plot Nos. 106, 95, 93, 89 and 7. 

IJ line passes through village Kathara Plot Nos. 7, 6, 8, 5, 4 and 1047. 

JK line passes along the Eastern boundary of Kathara Block 1(M.R.), 


SUB-BLOCK ‘E’ 


SI. 

No. 

Village 

Thana 

Thana 

No. 

District 

Area 

Remarks 

I. 

Kathara 

Gomia 

1 17 

Hazaribagh 

3-82 Acres 
(Approximately) 

Part 





Total Area 

3 ■ 82 Acres 



(Approximately) 


Plot No. to be acquired'in village Kathara: — loo(part), ioi 3 i02(Part) 3 i03(Part) 3 io4 3 
xo6(Part), i50(Part), X52(Partj 3 i53(Part). 

Boundary Description: 

HK line passes along the Western boundary of Kathara Block 1(A.R.) Plan 
‘B\ 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/ MAG HA 3, 1881 [Part H 


KL line passes along the Western boundary of Kathara Part — I Plan 'D'. 
LM line passes through village Kathara Plot Nos. 162 and 153, 

MH line passes through village Kathara Plot Nos. 153, 100, 102, 103 and 106. 


SUB -BLOCK *F 


SI. 

No. 

Village 

Thana 

Than® 

No. 

District 

Area Remarks 

r. 

Kathara 

Gomia 

1 17 

Hazaribagh 

22 '90 Acres Part 

(Approximately) 





Total Area 

22 ■ 90 Acres 
(Approximately) 


Plot Nog to be acquired in village Kathara i 38(Part), 139 to 141, i47(Part), 148, 149, 
iSO(Part), i65(Part), 458(Part), 459(Part), 46o(Part), 461, 462, 463(Part), 
464(Part), 4 66(Pirt), 46 7 (Part), 486(Part), 487, 4 88(ParO, 489(Part), 4y6(Pait), 
497(Part)j 1046. 

Boundary Description : 

NO line passes along the Southern boundary of Kathara block 1(A.R.) Plan 
•B’. 

OP line passes through plot No. 150 in village Kathara. 

PQ line passes through Plot No. 150. 

QR line passes through Plot Nos. 150, 138, 147, 497, 496, 489, 486 and 
488. 

RS line passes through Plot Nos. 488, 467, 466, 464, 463 and 458. 

STtTV line passes through Plot Nos. 458, 459, 460, 165, and 150. 

VN line passes along the pastern boundary of Kathara Part 1(A.R.) Plan ‘D’. 


SUB-BLOCK *G f 

Plan No. Rev. /3z/ 59- 


SI. 

No. 

Village 

Thana 

Thana 

No. 

District 

Area Remarks 

1. 

Borea 

Gomia 

115 

Hazaribagh 

2-25 Acres Part 

(Approximately) 





Total Area 

2 '25 Acres 
(Approximately) 


Plots to be acquired in village Borea : 6CPart), fiziPart), 6;(Part), 68(Part). 
Boun clary Description: 

ABC line passes through Plot of village Borea, — 62, 61 and 68. 
CD line passes through Plot No. of village Borea.— 65. 

DEF line passes along the Boundary of Block — 2 Plan ‘B\ 

FA line passes through Plot No. in village Borea — 62. 



353 


$ 8 c, i (il)1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAG HA 3, 1881 


SUB-BLOCK <H’ 


S). 

No. 

Village 

Thana 

Thana 

No. 

District 

Area 

Remarks 

I. 

Bores 

Gomia 

115 

HAzaribagh 

3 25 Acres 
(Approximately) 

Part 





Total Area 

3 25 Acres 
(Approximately) 



PlotNoi, to be acquired in village Borca : 3 i 3 (Parl)> 343 to 347- 

Boundary Description: 

GH line, passes along Plot No. 343. 

HI line passes along the Boundary of Plot No 348 (Road). 

IJ line passes along the boundary of block 3 Plan ‘B’, 

JG line passes through Plot No. 313 and along the boundary ol Plot No, 342 
upto point 'G’. 

[No, C2-20(2)/68.1 


New Delhi, the 15 lh January I960 

8.(J. 204. —Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the 
Department of Mines and Fuel (Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel) S.O. 670 
dated the 17th March, 1959, under sub-section (1; of section 4 of the Coal Bearing 
Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957) Ihe Cential Gov- 
ernment gave notice of its intention to prospe -1 for coal in the land-, in the 
locality specified In the Schedule appended to that notification; 

And whereas the Central Government is satisfied that coal is obtainable in 
the whole or any part of the said lands; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) Of 
section 7 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby gives notice of its 
intention to acquire the lands measuring 1534*10 acres described in Ihe Schedule 

appended hereto. 

' The plans of the areas covered by this notification may be inspected in the 
office of the Collector Dhenkanal (Orissa) or in the office of the Coal Controller, 
1, Council House Street, Calcutta or in the office of the National Coal Develop- 
ment Corporation Ltd. (Revenue Section) “Darbhanga House”, Ranchi. 

Any person interested in the aforesaid land may within 30 days of the Issue 
of this notification, file objection to the acquisition ot the whole or anv part of 
the land or Of any rights in or over such lands to the Coal Controller, 1, Council 
House Street. Calcutta 

SCHEDtn R 
BLOCK-II 

Draining No Rev /f>2; 59 
Showing lands to he acquired 


SI. 

Village 

Thana 

Thana 

District 

Area 

Remark 

No. 



No, 





1 . 

U'rgpur 

. Colliery P,S. 

4 

Dhenkanal 

3i3'S4 

Acres. 

Full. 

2 . 

Ramchaudrapur 

Colliery P.S. . 

4 

Dhenkanal 

188-15 

Acres. 

Full. 

3. 

4. 

Sury«m4iilp ur 

Bodaslridda 

. Colliery P.S. 

, Colliery P.S. 

4 

4 

Dhenkanal 

Dhenkanal 

211*00 
382 43 

Acres. 

Acres. 

Full, 

Part. 

5- 

TentuUi ■ 

. Colliery P.S., ■ 

4 

Dhenkanal 

263 ■ 20 

Acres, 

Part. 

6 - 

KendupaU 

Jugabandhupur 

. Colliery P.S. 

4 

Dhenkanal 

102-10 

Acres. 

Full. 

7, 

Colliery P.S. 

4 

Dhenkanal 

33 68 

Acres. 

Full. 


Total Area 1584*10 Acres 
(Approximately) 



354 


THE GA7ETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1831 [Fa*? It 


l’lots to be acquired in village Hirapur : — 

t to 32, 3/33. 20/34, 20/35- 

Plots to be acquired in village Ramchandrapur - 

i, 2, 3, 4/169, 4/170, '4/171, 4/172, 4/173,4/174, 4/175, 4/176, 4/ : 77, 4/178, 4/179,4/18°, 4 /i3i> 
4/182,4/183,4/184, 4/185,4/186, 4/187, 4/188, 4/189, 4/19°, 4/i?i, 4/192, 5 to 12, 12/193, 13 to 120, 
4/121, 4/122, 51/123, 59/124, 62/125, 88/126, 88/127, 77/128, 75/129, 68/130, 66/131, 67/132, 87/133, 
72/134, 72/135, 72/136, 72/137, 73/138, 53/139, 53/M°, 49/i-fi, 49/142, 9I/I43, 107/144, 114/145, 
114/146, 116/147, 18/148, 17/149, 16/150, 16/151, 16/152, 19/153, 23/154, 23/155, 23/156, 23/157, 
23/158, 3i/i59, 33 /i6o, 35/161, 22/162, 80/163, 43/164, 76/165, 74/166, 74/167, 51/168, 83/194, 
83/195, 83/194/196, 83/197. 

Plots bo be acquired in village Suryantanipur :■ — 

1, 2, 2/457, 3 to 131, 142, 133, I34( pl > 135 to 141, 96/456, 310 to 321, 25T to 257, 374, 450, 
143 to 163, 165, 166, 98/467, 98/468, 20 1 to 222, 247, 206/447, 200/455, 223, 224, 225, 195 to 200, 
264 to 309, 231 to 238, 242 to 250, 258 to 263, 233/472, 233/473, 401, 322, 323, 324 to 344, 469, 
345, 241, 240, 239, 355, 357, 354, 353, 34 6 , 352, 347, 351, 354, 359, 350, 349, 356, 358, 360, 361, 
364, 363, 363, 362, 367, 368, 369, 406, 407 are covered by and including plot Nos. 234, 406, 408, 
409, 417, 419, 188, 229, 230, 370 to 414, 441, 451, 492, 443 to 446, 417, 418, 421, 416, 422, 423, 
336,415,435, 432, 438, 440, 439,429,426,42710 434,425,186, 420,419,454, 187,188,184, 
185, 183, 182, 173 to 181, 189 to 195, 226 to 230, 164, 167 to 172. 

Plots to be acquired in village Badasingida : - 

i(Part), 1/1028,2/1029, 281 10284, 293 to 300, 2, 292(Part), 3 to 272, 276(Part), 27710 
280 , 285 10 291, 3° T to 320, 322, 323, 449, 450, 460 to 467, 478, 479. 

Plots to be acquired in village Tentulai : — 1 (Part). 

Plots to be acquired in village Kendupali : — 

1, 2, 3, 3/250, 4, 4/218, 5 to 11, 210 to 215, 195 to 209, 216, 217, 220 to 225, 227 to 234, 236, 
237. 238, 29, 30, 31, 28, 24, 21, 22 to 27, 16 to 20, 234, 13, 14, 15, 32, 33 to 103, 215, 105 to 194, 
253, 242, 243, 44, 251, 240, 249, 254, 222. 

Plots to be acquired in village Jagabandhupur : — 

1 to 70, 72 to 76, 78 to 81. 

1- 2 line passes along the Northern Boundary of villages Badasingida, Surya- 

manlpur, Ramchandrapur and Hirapur. 

2- 2 line passes along the Eastern Boundary of village Hlrnpur. 

3- 4 line passes along the Eastern Boundary of villages Hirapur and Tentuloi. 

4- 5 line passes through Plot No. 1 in village Tentuloi. 

5- 6 line passes along the Southern Boundary of village Tentuloi. 

6-7-8-9 line passes along the Southern Boundary Of village Kendupali. 

9-10 line passes along the Western Boundary of village Kendupali and Jaga- 
bandhupur. 

10- 11 line passes along the Southern Boundary of village Suryamanipur, 

11- 12 line passes along the Western Boundary of village Suryamanlpur, 

12- 13 line passes along the Northern Boundary of Plot Nos. 324, 321, 375, 406, 

448, 451, 452, 453, 459, 458, 457. 470, 477, 480. 

13- 14 line passes -along the Western Boundary of the village Badasingida. 

[No. C2-21 (1) /GO,] 

S.O. 205. — Whereas by the notification of the Government of India In the 
Department of Mines and Fuel (Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel) S.R.O. 3235 
dated the 8th October. 1957, under sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Coal Bear- 
ing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Central 
Government gave notice of its intention to prospect for coal in the lands in the 
locality specified in the Schedule appended to that notification; 

And whereas by th e notification of the Government of India in the Department 
of Mines and Fuel (Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel) S.O. 1784' dated the 5th 
August, 1959, under sub-section (1) of section 7 of the said Act, notice was issued 
specifying further period of one year commencing from the 8th October, 1959, 
as the period within which the Central Government may give notice of its 
intention to acquire the said lands or any rights In or over such lands; 



S«c. 8 (il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY i?S, 1960/MAGHA 3. 1881 


355 


And whereas the Central Government is satisfied that coal Is obtainable in 
the whole or any part of said lands; 

Now. therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
section 7 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby gives notlee of its 
Intention to acquire the lands measuring 998.80 acres described in the Schedule 
appended hereto. 

The plans of the areas covered hy this notification may be inspected in the 
office of the Collector, Dhenkanal (Orissa) or in the office of the Coal Controller 
1, Council House Street, Calcutta or in the Office of the National Coal Develop- 
ment Corporation Ltd. (Revenue Section). "Darbhanga House”, Ranchi. 

Any persons interested in the aforesaid land may within 30 days of the issue 
of this notification, file objection to the acquisition of the whole or any part 
of the land or of any rights in or over such lands to the Coal Controller 1 
Council House Street. Calcutta, 

Schedule Draw) tig No , Rev/62/59. 

(Showing lands to be acquired. 

BLOCK- I 


SI. 

No. 

Name of the Village 

Thana 

Thana 

No. 

District 

Area 


Remarks 

I. 

Balanda 

Colliery 

4 

Dhenkanal 

662-80 

Acres. 

Part. 

2. 

Dera 

CplHery 

4 

Dhenkanal 

II9-50 

Acres. 

Part. 

3- 

Ghantapara 

Colliery 

4 

Dhenkanal 

21650 

Acres 

Part. 


Total Area: 998-80 Acres. 

(Approximately) 


Plots to be acquired in 'village Balanda : —Part (I). 


1493) 1494, 1495) 1496) 1497 to 1509, 2520 to 2591, Z592'29t6, 2592) 2902(2592 /g), 2550/2878 
^92/2879, 2592/3008, 2926(2592/1), 2592/295 r (Part), 2683, 2684, 2685, 2668 fpartl 2670 /part) 
276o/i 3rt ’ 2671 t0 3fi82 ’ 2686 t0 2?38 ’ 2 9t2(2592/8) 2739, 2903(2739/11,2913(2739/2), 2740 to 

BSoV 2761 10 278 °’ 2781 (Parl)j 2783 (Part )> 2 784) 2785 (Part), 2788 (Part), 2789 to 

2793, 2794 (Part), 2796 (Part), 2797 to 2848, 2850/2891, 2921 (2850/1) ,b 

2922 (28 5 o'2), 2850 (Part), 2592/2952 (Part), 2760/2875 t 28 5o/l), 2850/3016, 2850/3015* 


Plot Nos. surrounding and including, 2841, 1816, 2813, 2822, 2823, 3831, 32, 33 t0 39 
Plot Nos. in between 2767 and 2766 and in between 2763 and 2765. 

Plot Nos. surrounding and including 2720, 2722 , 2721, 2774, 2784, 2789. 

Plot Nos. surrounding and including 2591, 2588, 2587, 258; and 2829. 

Plots to be acquired in village Balanda Part (II). 


24, 24/3021, 17, 18 to 23, 


■ 3 , 2898(24/1), 2877, 17,2933, 25, I7/3OI I, 24/3019, I34 iq4/ 2 RS r 
« 5 /’.^ 7 ’ 982 *” 9 . 90 ’ 2 ««5_) 2605/2861, 991 to 994, L9 fearth 


148, 752, 753 to 762, 942 to 951, 976, 982 to 990, 2885, 2605/2861, *991 to 99iT"l4<Q , ?Po l t^ ,ann0 
2887, 1460, 1461, 1464 to 1468, I47i/30t2, 1471. 1469, 1470, 1471/2888, l 47 t 9 to 1492, ItfljkfiSg? 

Plots to be acquired in village Dcra :■ — 



, 2155, 2159, 2226 to 2310, 143/2495, 2311, 2312, 23 IJ' 24 QI , o 5 °°’ 21 5 2 ) 

, 1529 (Part), (533 (Part). ' ’ 3 49h 2158/26 74, 2158 (Part), 2313 to 


Plots to be acquued in village Ghautapara 

'940/6911 (Part), 19/6909, 7007 (19/1), 15 fo 18, 14/6907 (Part) 6800 
(Part), 6911/7454 (Part), 940/7415 (Part), 940 ’(Pan) ,‘ V/. „^ 9 ° I ,? ( 'L art ^ 7005 (2/1J 

980, 981, 982 (Pait), 9«3, 984(Part), 9 94(Pan), 9 5 6/6828? loo 5 ’ 1070 (Parr^inz t (P “ r0] 979 ( Pb H) 
(Part), 1075, 1076 (Part), 1069 (Part), 1068 (Part). ~ ’ 7 rt/ 10 7L 1072, 1073, 1074 



356 the gazette of ixdia : January . 23 . iaeq/MAGHA a, 18 *i u 


Boundary Description: 

1-2 line passes along the Western Boundary of village Balanda, 

2-3-4-5-Q ■ line passes along the Northern Boundary of village Balanda. 

6-7 line passes along the Northern Boundary of Plot No. 17 in village 

Balanda and passes through Plot No. 16 and along the northern bo'im- 
dary of village Balanda. 

7.8 line passes along the Eastern Boundary of Plot No. 10 and pabsea 
through Plot No. 17 in village Balanda. 

8-0-10 line passes along the Eastern Boundary of Plot Nos. 17 and 24 in village 
Balanda. 

10- lJ line passes along the Northern Boundary of Plot Nos. 134 and 148 In 

village Balanda. 

11- 12 line passe? along the Eastern Boundary of Plot No, 148 In village 

Balanda. 

12- 13 line passes along the Southern Boundary of Plot Nos. 148 and 1344 in 

village Balanda 

13- 14 line passes along the Eastern Boundary of Plot No. 134 In village 

Balanda. 

14- 15 line passes along the Northern Boundary of Plot No, 24 In village 

Balanda. 

15-16-17-18 line passes along the Eastern Boundary of Plot No. 24 in village 
Balanda. 

18-19-20 line passes along the Northern Boundary of Piot Nos. 755, 756, 702, 951, 
970, 983, 982, 991 999 In village Balanda. 

21-21 line passes Plot No. 1459. 

21- 22 line passes through Plot No, 1459 and along the Northern Boundary of 

Plot No. 1509 In village Balanda 

22- 23 line passes through and Eastern Boundary of Plot No. 2520. 

23- 24 line passes along the Northern Boundary of Plot Nos, 2592, 3008 and 

Western Boundary of 2951. 

24- 25 line passes along the Northern Boundary of Plot No. 2951 and passes 

through 2952. 2601, 2671. 2670, 2668, 2780, 2776, 2784, 2789 and passes 

along the Northern Boundary of 2793. 2797 and passes through 2850 ip 
village Balanda 

25-26-27 line passes along the Southern Boundary of village Dera. 

27- 2$ line passes through the Plot Nos. 1529, 1533, 2158 in village Dera. 

28- 29 liye passes along the Northern Boundary of Plot Nos. 2158, 2159. 2162, 

2500 and passes through 2155, 2152. 2133, 2131. 2130, 2128. 2126, 2125 

and along the Eastern Boundary of Plot No. 2124 In Dera village." 

23-30 line passes along the Northern Boundary of Plot Nos. 2033, 2044, 2043 
1946, 1950, 1957, 1951, 1952, 1948 and passes through 1935 and Western 
Boundary of Plot Nos. 1934, 1983 and 2486. 

30- 31 line passes along the Western Boundary of Plot No, 1733. 

31- 32 line passes along. the Northern Boundary of Plot Nos. 1733. 2457, 1735. 

32- 33 ' line passes along the Eastern Boundary of Dera. 

33- 34 line passes along the Northern Boundary of village Ghantanarn. 

34-35-36 line nnsses along the Northern Boundary of Plot No. 901. 962, 963 967 
In village Ghantapara. 

36- 37. line passes through Plot Nos. 968, 279, 982, 984. 993 and 994 In villaae 

Ghantapara. 

37- 38 line oasses through Plot Nos. 994, 1005. 1063, 1069, 1070, 1074, 1070, 1075 

in village Ghantapara. 

38-39-40 line passes STong 'the Eastern and Southern Boundary pf Plot No. 943. 

40- 41 line passes along the Eastern Boundary of Plot No. 940 in village 

Ghantapara. 

41- 42 line passes through Plot Nos. 940, 7457, 19. 6909, 6907 Rnd 14 in vjll-agp 

Ghantapara. 

42-43.44-45 line passes along the Eastern Boundary of Dera. 



S*C. 3 (ii)] T,HE GAZETTE OF INDIA; JANUARY 23, L060/MAGHA 3, 1881 357 

49-46 litte passes along the Southern Boundary of Dera. 

46-47-48-49 line passes alpng the Western Boundary of Dera. 

49-50 line passes through Plot Nos, 2 and 7005 in village Ghanlapara. 

90-51 line passes along the Western Boundary of village Ghsntapara. 

51- 52 line passes along the Southern Boundary of village Balandu. 

52- 53 line passes along the Western Boundary of village Hirapur, 

53- 1 line passes along the Southern Boundary of village Balanda. 

[No. C'2-21 (21/60.] 
B. ROY, Under Secy, 

(Department of Mines & Fuel) 

New Delhi, the 12th January 1960 

S O. 2*6, ■—In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of tuh-sedlon 
(1) of section 8 of th,e Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety) Act, 1952 (12 of 
1952), and in modification of the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel (Department of Mines and Fuel), No, S.O, 1892, 
dated the 26th August, 1959, the Central Government hereby fixes, with effect 
op and from the 1st day of February, 1960, the following rates at which the duty 
of excise referred to in the said clause shall be levied on coal and coke, namely: — 

Rale of exetcise duly 

(i) on all coal Including soft coke, but excluding hard coke . Eighty-eight naye paise 

per ton. 

(ii) on hard coke ........ Ninety-four naye paise 

per ton. 

[No. C5-ll(54)/58.] 


New Delhi, the 14th January 1960 

S.O. 207,— In exercise of the powers eonferrel by sub-section ( 1 ) of section 
15 of the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety) Act, 1952 (12 of 1952), read 
wlfh rule 21 of the Coal Mines (Conservation ahd Safety) Rules, 1954, the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri N. B. Ghosh 0/ Messrs. Bird ft Co. Private 
Utd., Calcutta as a member of the Advisory Committee on Stowing nice Shri 
D. Hogg who has resigned his membership, for the pnexpired portion of the term 
of office of Shri D. Hogg, and makes the following amendment in the notification 
of the Government of India, Department qf Mines and Fuel {Ministry of Steel, 
Mines and Fuel) No. S.O. 1743 dated the 29th July, 1950, nfemely: — 

In the said notification under column l, for the entry "Shri D. Hogg, 
M/s, Maeneill and Barry Ltd.**, the entry "Shri N. B. Ghosh of 
Messrs. Bird & Co. Private Ltd., Calcutta’’ shall be substituted. 

[No. C5-4(2)/59.[ 


New Delhi, the 16 th January 1960 

8 .0. 208.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
15 of the Coal Mine* (Conservation and Safety) Act, 1952 (12 of 1952). read with 
rule 20 of the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety) Rules, 1954, the Central 
Gpverpment hereby appoints Shri B. R. Pai, Chief of the Planning Section, 
National Coal Development Corporation Ltd., Ranchi, as a co-opted member of 
the Technical Advisory Committee (Mining) vice Shri C. R, Sharma, and makes 
the following amendment in the Notification of the Government of India, Depart- 
ment of Mines and Fuel (Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel) No. S. O. 180 dated 
the I4th January, 1959, namely: — 

In the said Notification, in the first column, for the entry "Shri C R. 
Sharma, Superintendent of Collieries, (Co-ordination). National Coal 
Development Corporation (P) Ltd,, Ranchi’’ the entry “Shri B. R. Pal, 
Chief of the Planning Section. National Coal Development Corpora- 
tion DW- Ranchi," shall be substituted. 

[No. C6-4(l)/80.1 
CHHEDI, LAL, Dy. Secy. 



358 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 25 , 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part 11 


(Department of Iren & Steel) 

New Delhi, the 15 th January 1900 

S.O. 209/ESS. COMM/IRON AND STEEL-4, 5 & 7.— The following notifica- 
tion issued by the Iron and Steel Controller under clauses 4, 5 & 7 of the Iron 
and Steel (Control) Order, 1950. is hereby published for general information. 

NOTIFICATION 

“In exercise of the powers conferred on me under the Clauses 4, 5 & 7 of 
the Iron and Steel (Control) Order 1956, I, A. S. Bam, Iron and Steel Controller, 
hereby authorise any consumer of Cast Iron Ingot Moulds to acquire Cast Iron 
Ingot Moulds from any Producers and/or Controlled Stockholders subieet to the 
condition that Cast Iron Ingot Moulds thus acquired shall not be disposed of or 
exported from any place to which the Iron and Steel (Control) Order, 1956, 
extends except with the prior permission of the Iron and Steel Controller. 

2. The Controlled Stockholders are also authorised to dispose of Cast Iron 
Ingot Moulds to any actual consumer but the Producers shall not dispose of any 
Cast Iron Ingot Moulds except In accordance with the conditions contained or 
incorported in a special or general written order of the Controller. 

A. S. Bam, 

Ipon and Steel Controller." 


[No. SC(A)-19(3) /59-IL] 
J. S. BAIJAL, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND , AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi , the 6th January 1960 

S.O. 210.— In pursuance of the provisions of Rule 45 of the Fundamental Rules, 
the President hereby makes the following rules regarding the allotment of 
residential quarters in the Delhi Zoological Park. 

THE DELHI ZOOLOGICAL PARK (ALLOTMENT OF QUARTERS) RULES, 1960 

1. Short title and application. — (1) These Rules may be called the Delhi 
Zoological Park (Allotment of Quarters) Rules, 1960. 

(2) They shall apply to the residential quarters in the Delhi Zoological Park 
Premises behind Sunder Nagar, New Delhi. 

2, Definitions. — In these rules, unless there is* anything repugnant in the 
lubject or context: — 

I. “emoluments" means — 

(a) In the case of an officer serving in a qualifying appointment on the 
date on which his omolutnents are to be determined — 

(i) if he is on duty on that date, the pay admissible to him in respect 

of the qualifying appointment on which he holds a lien, or if he 
holds no lien on a qualifying appointment, the pay actually drawn 
by him; 

(ii) if he is on leave on that date, pay as aforesaid at the rate applicable 

to him immediately before he proceeded on leave. 

(bj In the case of an officer not serving in a qualifying appointment oh 
the date on which his emoluments are to be determined, pay as 
aforesaid at the rate which will be applicable to him immediately 
on his joining a qualifying appointment, 

Note.— “emolument" lor the purpose of these rules include personal pay, 

Special pay and pension, if any, drawn by the officer and dearness pay, 



Sec. S , (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 28, 1960/MAGHA 8 , 1881 359 

II. "qualifying appointment" means an appointment the incumbent of which 
is required to reside on duty with the Delhi Zoological Park in New Delhi. 

3. Classification of quarters. — For the purpose of allotment of quarters to 
which these rules apply quarters shall be classified as under 

(i) Class III quarters — To be allotted to such essential service staff (Class 
IIIl of the Delhi Zoological Park whose presence in the premises of 
the Zoo is deemed to be absolutely essential by the Superintendent 
of the Zoo. 

(11) Class IV quarters— To be allotted to all subordinates in Class IV cadre 
irrespective of their pay. 

4. Officer eligible for allotment. — The quarters to which these, rules apply 
are primarily intended for the use of Government servants in the employ of the 
Delhi Zoological Park, New Delhi, who are required to reside on duty at the 
said park. 

5. Application for allotment. — The quarters shall be allotted as and when they 
become available for allotment on written applications made to the Superintendent, 
Delhi Zoological Park. 

6. Allotment how made. — (1) The application in the prescribed form shall be 
submitted to the Superintendent, Delhi Zoological Park. 

(2) If there are more than one applicant for a particular residence, preference 
shall be given to the senior most applicant. Seniority for this purpose shall he 
determined with reference to the amount of emoluments, or, where emoluments 
are equal, to the period for which these emoluments have been drawn, or where 
for the period for which the emoluments drawn is the same, to the length of 
continuous service. 

7. Failure to accept allotment. — The occupation of these residences shall except 
as otherwise provided in these rules, be compulsory for all non-guzetted staff 
of the Delhi Zoological Park, if accommodation is available. 

In the case of refusal of offer/allotment of a residence, an employee of the 
Delhi Zoological Park shall not be entitled to draw any house rent allowance. 

In case of shortage of residences, the allotment of any residence may at any 
time be terminated with one month's notice with a view to accommodate an officer 
whose residence within the Park may be deemed more necessary In the interest of 
Government work. 

8. Order of allotment.— Quarters for which no eligible officers can be found 
shall be allotted first to persons eligible for quarters of a lower class and secondly 
to persons eligible for quarters of a higher class. 

9. Payment of rent.— The officer to whom a residence is allotted shall be liable 
for payment of rent from the eighth day after the date of allotment or from the 
date of occupation of the quarter, whichever is earlier. 

10. (1) Responsibilities of allottee. — The officer to whom a residence has been 
allotted shall be deemed to be in occupation thereof and shall be personally 
responsible for its rent, if he is rent-paying officer, for the period of allotment 
whether he occupied it or not, unless the allotment is cancelled. Rent will bo 
assessed in accordance with the principles laid down in Fundamental Rules 45-A 
and Supplementary Rules made thereunder and will be recovered monthly from 
the pay bill of the individual. 

(2) The officer to whom a residence has been allotted shall be personally 
responsible for ahy damage., beyond fair wear and tear caused thereto or to the 
premises or services provided therein by Government during the period for which 
the residence has been and remains allotted to him. 

11. Sharing of accommodation. — An officer shall not be considered to be in 
occupation of a residence only by reason of the fact that he shares it with an 
officer to whom it has been allotted. 

12. Occupation during leave. — An officer shall not be permitted to remain in 
occupation of a residence if he. proceeds on leave, unless the Superintendent, 
Delhi Zoological Park, otherwise directs, in which case the officer will pay rent 
in accordance with whatever orders muy be issued by the Government of India 



3 6o the GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY Si, 196#/MXftHA S, 1881 JPaxt t* 


from time to time regarding the payment of rent for Government residences 
occupied by Government servants while on leave, Irrespective of whether he 
enjoys rent free concession or not. An officer occupying a residence on leave must 
vacate it when a substitute is appointed in his plate arid the s£ld residence is 
allotted to the substitute. 

13. Lien during leave. — The officer to whom a residbhte has b&en allotted shall 
have a lien on his residence if he proceeds on leave for a periqd of not more than 
120 days. He may, with the permission of the Superintendent. Delhi Zoological 
Park, store, at his own risk, free of rent, his belongings ih’orit ro6m which shall, 
jf possible, be the smallest in the residence he was occupying prior to his departure 
on leave, on the understanding that he may, at ahy tfmtt, be rfiCftiirfed to remove 
his belongings at the request of the Superintendent if the residence Is allotted to 
any other officer or person for the whole or any part of his leave. 

14. Subletting. — An officer to whom a residence has been allotted iftay sublet 
it subject to the following conditions: 

(a) The lessee shall be approved by the Superintendent, Delhi Zoological 

Park; 

(b) the sub-tenancy shall nof be recognised by Government the lessor 

shall remain personally responsible for any rent payable in respect 
of the residence and for any damage caused to the premises or services 
provided by Government beyond fair wear ahd tear; 

(c) the rent payable by the lessee in respect of the residence arid services 

provided by Government shall not, except -with the previous sanction 
of the Superintendent, Delhi Zoological Park, exceed the fair rent, 
Which is the rent payable by the lessor plus the house rent allowance 
foregone by him divided by the accommodation occupied by the lessee, 

(d) the allottee continues to occupy the residence allotted,' 

(e) the lessee is a Government servant, 

(f) the allottee Will be responsible for obtaining necessary permission from 

the. Superintendent, Delhi Zoological Park, for subletting tpe accom- 
modation within two months from the date of occupation of the sub- 
lessee; 

(g) failing to obtain such permission gs mentioned In rule 14(f) above will 

be treated as an unauthorised subletting and the Superintendents 
Delhi Zoological Park, will in such eases impose suitable penalties. 

15. Death etc. of allottee. — If the officer to whom a residence is allotted dies, 
la removed or dismissed or retires from the service, the allotment to him of the 
residence shall be cancelled with effect from one month after the data of ,his 
death, removal or dismissal or retirement as the case may be, or with effect from 
any date after such event as referred to above on which the residence ip actually 
vacated, Whichever is earlier. 

16. Vacating residence. — The. Officer to whom the residence has been allotted 
shall before vacating the residence, give not less thah 8 days notice In writing 
to the Superintendent, Delhi' Zoological Park. The allotment of the residence 
shall be deemed to be cancelled with effect from the 9th dky of the day on wiilch 
the letter or surrender notice is received by the Superintendent, Zoological Park. 
If he does hot do so he shall be responsible for payment of rent for trigi period 
or the number of days by Which the notice given by him falls short of 8 days from 
the date of vacation, 

17. Inventory of furniture.— The officer to whom a residence has been allotted 
shall be required when he enters into occupation of,' and when he vacates the 
residence, to sign an inventory of the furniture (If provided in the residence) 
and fittings, 

18. Maintenance.— The officer to whom a residence has been allotted shall 
maintain the residence and premises in a clean condition to the satisfaction of 
the New Delhi Municipal Committee (which is responsible for the final disposal 
of the rubbish) and the Superintendent, Delhi Zoological Park, 

19. Cuttteg of trees etc. — The officer tq whom a residence has been allotted 
shall not permit tree® or shrubs on the premises to be cut down or loppea, save 
With the consent of the Superintendent, Delhi Zoological Park. 



Se c. d (ii)] tnii GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1‘JOO^MAGHA 3, I8B1 36 1 


20. Compliance with orders. — The officer to whom a residence has been allotted 
shall comply with any order of Government for the time being in force in respect 
of the garden attached thereto. 

21. Furnishing; false information etc. — If the officer to whom a residence has 

been allotted furnishes false information, commits any breach of the rules 
regarding allotment, misconduct himself or causes annoyance to other tenants, 
or uses or permits the residence or premises to be used for any purpose which 
the Superintendent, Delhi Zoological Purk, considers to be improper, the 
Superintendent may , s 

(a) require him to vacate the residence and may allot it to any other officer 

or person, but the officer so required to vacate the residence shall 
continue to be personally responsible for thei rent thereof, save in 
respect of any period for which it is allotted to another officer or 
person; 

(b) declare him to be ineligible for the residence in thei Park area during 

any period the Superintendent considers reasonable. 

22. Temporary employees. — When a residence is allotted to a temporary 
employee of the Delhi Zoological Park, he shall be required to produce a surety 
Bond from a permanent Central Government officer. 

23. Relaxation of rules. — The President may, for exceptional reasons to be 
recorded in writing, relax all or any of the provisions in these rules in the case 
of any officer or "class of officers or residences. 

[No. 35-75/57-F.II.] 
N. RANGANATHAN, Under Secy. 


(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the Qth January 1960 

S.O, 211. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural 
Produce (Grading and Marking), Act, 1937 (1 of 1937) the Central Government 
hereby makes the following amendments to the Essential Oils Grading and Marking 
Rules, 1964, the same having been previously published as required by the said 
section namely: — 


Amendments 

In the said rules, 

1. in rule 2, for the figures and word “HI and IV", the figures and word "III to 
VII" shall be substituted; 

2. In rule 3, for the words and figures “in columns 2 to 7 in schedules III and 
IV", the words and figures "in Schedules III to VII” shall be substituted; 

3. in Schedule 1, under the heading "(b) Colour scheme", after item (ii) and 
the eritries relating thereto, the following items and entries shall be added, namely — 

" (iii) Palmarosa oil. 


Grade designation 


Colour of lettering showing the 

Colour of the lorda of tic 



grade 

label 

Special . 


Red 

Red 

Grade A 


. Green 

Green 


“ (iv) Gingcrgrass oil. 


Grade designation 


Colour of lettering showing Colour of the botch 1 of the Ichl 

the grade. 


Grade A , 


Red 


Red 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY '2.1, 1960/MAGIIA 3, 1881 [Part II 


“ (e) Eucalyptus oil. 


me designation 


Colour of lettering showing Colour of the bar del of the label, 

the grade 


Special .... Reel Red 

Grade A Green Green 1 '; 

4. after Schedule IV, the following Schedules shall be added, namely: — 



“Schedule V ’’ + 

Grade designations and definition of quality of Indian Palmarosa Oil 

( See nth 2 and 3 )~ 


Physico-Chemical Characteristics 

Description and 

Grade designation Specific Optical Refractive Acid Sponfication Sponficalion Total Solubility appearance 

gravity at rotation index + value not value value after alchols in 70 per cent 

30°/30°C* 30 °C 4 * exceeding acetylation (getaniol) (by volume) 

per cent. content ethyl-alcohol 

not 

less 

than 

per cent 

1 2 3 4 ~ 5 6 7 8 9 ro 


.Special 

. 0874 to 

0-886 

(- J 2 ° tO 

(T> 3 ° 

I -4690 to 
1-4735 

3 9 to 36 (3 to 

12 per cent 
of esters as 
geranyl acetate) 

206 to 284 

Grade A 

. 0-874 to 
0-886 

C— ) 2° tO 
(+) 3 ° 

1-4690 to - 
t -4735 

3 9 to 36 v 3 to 

12 per cent 
of esters as 
geranyl 
acetate. 

266 to 284 


tTfie s oecifications are based on the Indian standard for palmarosa oil(IS : 526— 1954) 


90 Soluble in Indian palmarosa oil is 
2 volumes. the yellowish essential 
oil obtained by steam 
or water distillation of 
partially dried leaves, 
flowers andupperthird 
of the stems out after 
flowering, of Cymbo- 
pogon martini, S tapf. 
Var. Malta . It shall 
be free from admixture 
with any of her oil or 
substance. It shall be 
clear, free from Jbyaotes 
and sediment, sus- 
pended matter and 
possess the character- 
istic sweet roselike 
odou r. 

88 

Soluble in 2 
volumes. 


1 



1 


Sec. 3 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23. 1960 /MAGHA 8 , I8B1 



“SCHEDULE VI” 
Grade designation and definition of quality of India Ginger 


■grass oil {see rules 2 and 3) 


Grade designation 


Physico-Chemical Characteristics 


Specific Optical 

at rotation 

30730° C* 


Refractive 
index at 
30° C** 


Acid %-alue 
not ex- 
ceeding 
per cent. 


Sponification 

value 


Sponfication 
value after in 
acetyla- 
tion. 


Solubility Total 
70 per alcohol 
cent ( by (geraniol) 
volume)) content not 
ethyl less than per 
alcoholft cent 


Description and 
appearance 





Grade A 


TO 


0*896 to 

0*935 


( — ) 14° 

c°( +)54' 


1-4740 to 
I-4S90 


T 3 * 5 to 34(5 
to 12 per cent 
of esters as ger- 
any! acetate) 


Soluble 
in 2 to 3 
Volumes. 


Indian gingergrass oil is 
the brownish yellow to 
brownish red essential 
oil obtained by steam 
or water distil La 'ion of 
partially dried leaves, 
flowers and upper third 
of stems, out after 
flowering of Cy'mfin- 
pogon martini Stapf. 
Var. Sofia. It shall 
be free from admixture 
with any other oil or 
substance. It shall 
be clear, ffee from sedi- 
ment and suspended 
matter and possess the 
characteristic shars, but 
pleasant odour. 


i, uj 
1 *- 


H 

3 

o 

> 

Nt 

M 

H 

H 

w 


I 1 % 

I 1 M 

I, 2 
il a 




^The corrccthjn* ' °flc m rfofs^i fi c nffo? r ^ " g[ng€rgrass oil(IS : 526—1954) 
tThe correction factor for refractive index for ce-nti grade rise in temperature is ( — ) o- 00C73 

tf The solution of gingergrass oil in ethyl alJhol T o wfam Tv v-flume 118 ' !n tCra P eraturc is ( + ) 0*00040 

alcohol. ~ w pe nt b> volume, occasionally turns opalescent or turbid with the further addition of 


I 1 

ii ? 


: JANUARY 23, I960/MAGHA 3, 1881 



Schedule VII @ 

Grade designation and definitions of quality of Indian Eucalyptus oil. (See rates 2 and 3) 


Physico-Chemical Characteristics 


Grade designation 

Specific 

gravity® 

30° / 30 “C* 

Optical 

rotation^ 

Refractive 

index@30°C** 

Solubility in 80 per cent 
(by volume) ethy 1 alcohol 

Cineoie 
content 
not less 
than per 
cent. 

Description and appearance 

I 

■2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

Special 

0-897 to 0-904 

( — )5° to(+>io° 1 -4548 to 
1-4656 

Soluble in equal volume 

70 

Indian eucalyptus oil is the colourle ss 
pale yellow essential oil obtained b^ 
water or steam distillation of fresh 

Grade A . 

0-897 to 
0-904 

(— ) 5 0 to 
(+) io° 

1-4548 to 

1 -4656 

Soluble in equal volume. 

60 

leaves of Eucalyptus globulus, Labill, 
or from other cineoie containing species 
of Eucalyptus (family Myrtaceae) and 
rectified. It shall be free from admixture 
with any other oil or substance. 
It shall be clear, free from sediment 
and suspended matter and possess the 
characteristic aromatic camphorace- 
ous taste, followed by a sensation of 
cold. 

The eucalyptus oil shall satisfy the test re- 
quirements for the limits of aldehyde 
(1) and phellandrene (2) 


@The specifications are based on the Indian standard for eucalyptus oil (IS : 328 — 1957) 

*The correction factor for specific gravity for each degree centigrade rise in temperature is ( — ) 0-00084 
**The correction factor for refractive index for each degree/centigrade rise in temperature is ( >0-00044 

1. The volume of semi-normal potassium hydroxide required to neutralise acids liberated from 10 ml. of the eucalyptus oil treated with 4 ml 
of a 3-5 per cent alcoholic hydroxylamine hydrochloride and 5 ml. of benzene, shall not exceed 2 ml. 

2. Phellandrene shall be taken to be absent when no crystalline precipitate is formed in the petroleum layer, within 10 minutes, on mixing one 

ml. of eucalyptus oil with 5 ml. of light petroleum, 2 ml. of saturated sodium nitrite solution and 2 ml. of glacial acetic acid. 


a 

M 

O 

N 

M 

H 

M 

O 

M 


a 


> 

S' 

r 

> 

!*> 


> 

o 

a 

> 


[No. F24-7/58-AM.] 


UJ 

C3\ 

LA 


V. S. NIGAM, 
Under Secy. 



366 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [P; 


(Department of Agriculture) 

(Indian Council of Agricultural Research) 

New Delhi-1, the 6th January 1960 

S.O. 212 Under Section 4(x) of the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923 (P 

1923), the Central Government -are pleased to appoint Dr. S. R. Barooah, Dir 
of Agriculture. Assam, Shillong to be a member of the Indian Central C 
Committee, Bombay upto 31st March, 1961, vice Shri L. K. Handique. 

[No. 1-18/59-Con 

AJUDHIA PRASADA, Under 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 9th January 1960 

S.O. 213. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of se 
11 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956). the Central Governi 
after consulting the Medical Council of India, hereby makes the following an 
ments in the First Schedule to the said Act, namely: — 

(i) in the entries relating to the University of Lucknow, after 'the 


“Master of Surgery — M.S. 
inserted, namely: — 

“Master of Surgery (Anatomy) 

Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) 

Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) 

Master of Surgery (Obstetrics & 
Gynaecology). 

Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) 

Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) 

Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) 
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) 

Diploma in Laryngology and Otology. 
Diploma in Gynaecology and 
Obstetrics. 

Diploma in Medical Radiology and' 
Electrology. 

Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and 
Surgery 

Diploma in Clinical Pathology 

(ii) against the University of Agra, 
and Bachelor of Surgery — M.I 
be inserted, namely: — 

“Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) 

Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) 

Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) 

Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) 

Master of Surgery (Surgery) 

Master of Surgery (Obstetrics & 
Gynaecology) 

Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) 

Master of Surgery (Anatomy) 

Diploma on Ophthalmic Medicine and 
Surgery 


Lucknow the following entries sha 


M.S. (Anatomy) Lucknow. 

M.S. (Orthopaedics) Lucknow. , 
M.S. (Ophth) Lucknow. 

M.S. (Obst. and Gyn.) Lucknow. 

M.S. (E N.T.) Lucknow. 

M.D. (Phy.) Lucknow. 

M.D. (Pharm.) Lucknow. 

M.D. (Path.) Lucknow. 

D.L.O. Lucknow. 

D.G.O. Lucknow. 

D.M.R.E. Lucknow. . 

D.O.M.S. Lucknow. 

D.C.P. Lucknow.” 


after the entry “Bachelor of Mec 
i.B.S. Agra” the following entries 


M.D. (Med.) Agra. 

M.D. (Pathology) Agra. 

M D. (Pharmacology) Agra. 
M.S. (Ophth.) Agra. 

M.S. (Surg.) Agra. 

M.S. (Obsts. and Gyn.) Agra. 
M.D. (Phy.) Agra. 

M.S. (Anatomy) Agra. 

D.O.M.S. Agra”. 


[No. F. 5-53/58 


New Delhi, the 13 th January 1960 

S.O. 214. — In exercise of the pwoers conferred by sub-section (2) of se 
II of thp Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956), the Central Govern 



(ii)] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1381 36 ? 


consulting the Medical Council of India, hereby makes the following amend- 
. in the First Schedule to the said Act, namely:— 

the said Schedule, after the entry relating to the University of Aligarh, 
blowing entries shall be inserted, namely: — 


Vikraim University : 

M.B.B.S. (Vikram). 

M.D, (Pharmacology) Vikram. 
M.D. (Path.) Vikram. 

M.D. (Physiology) Vikram. 
M.D. (Medicine) Vikram. 

M.S. (Ophth.) Vikram. 

M.S. (Genl. Surgery) Vikram. 
M.S. (Anatomy) Vikram. 

M.S. (Obst. & Gyn.) Vikram. 

T.D.D. Vikram. 

D.C.H. Vikram. 

D.M.R.E. Vikram. 


. [No. F. 17-68/59 M.I.] 
A. K. DAR, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 12 th January 1960 

. 215. — The. notification of thei Government of India in the Ministry of 
n, S.O. 2266, dated the 23rd September, 1959 published at page 2927 of the 
t& of India, Part II, Section 3 — Sub-Section (ii), dated the 17th October, 1959, 
-eby rescinded. 


lor of Medicine and Bachelor of 
ery. 

r of Medicine (Pathology) 
r of Medicine (Pathology). 1 
r of Medicine (Physiology), 
r of Medicine (Medicine), 
r of Surgery (Ophthalmology), 
r of Surgery (General Surgery), 
r of Surgery (Anatomy), 
r of Surgery (Obstetrics and 
laecology) . 

na in Tuberculosis Diseases. 

na in Child Health. 

na in Medical Radiology & 


[No. F. 7-58/ 59-D.] 
D. J. BALARAJ, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 
(Department of Transport) 

(Transport Wing) 

, Ports 

New Delhi, the 14 th January I960 

. 216. — In pursuance of sub-section 6 of the Calcutta Port Act, 1890 
'a I Act No. Ill of 1890) and in supersession of the Ministry of Transport 
•ation No. 9-PI (250)/53, dated 15th February, 1954, it is hereby notified that 
Df the bodies representing commercial interests specified in column 2 of the 
below shall elect the number of Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta 
ed against it in column 3 thereof: — 


Name of body 


Number of 
Commissi oners 


3 


3engal Chamber of Commerce & Industry .... 2 

lengal National Chamber of Commerce & Industry ... 3 

Indian Chamber of Commerce . 2 

3harat Chamber of Commerce ....... - x 

lerchants Chamber of Commerce ...... I 

Oriental Chamber of Commerce ...... x 

Indian National Steamship Owners’ Association ... 1 


[No. 9-PG (4)/60.] 
K. NARAYANAN, Dy. Secy. 



till: GAZETTE OE lNt)T\: JANUARY 23, RIGO/MAgUA 3, last [Part It 


(Department of Transport) 

(Transport Wing) 

Lighthouses & Lightships 
New Delhi, the 18th January 1060 

S.O. 217. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (c) of section 2 of 
the Indian Lighthouse Act, 1927 (17 of 1927), the Central Government hereby 
declares the lighthouse at Vengurla Point in the Bombay State to be a general light- 
house for the purposes of the said Act, with effect from the 1st February, I960. 

[No. 22-M.L.(14)/57.1 


ORDER 

S.O. 218. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
6 of the Indian Lighthouse Act, 1927 (17 of 1927), the Central Government hereby 
authorises the officers specified In the first column in the annexed table to enter 
upon and inspect any Jocal lighthouse in the lighthouse district (as defined in the 
Ministry of Transport and Communications, Department of Transport, notification 
S.R.O. 2502 dated the 23rd July, 1957) specified against each in the second column 
of the said table. 


Table 


Name of officer 


i Lighthouse District 


Director of Lighthouses and Lightships. Bombay. Bombay. 

Director of Lighthouses and Lightships, Madras. Madras. 

Director of Lighthouses and Lightships, Calcutta. Calcutta. 


2, This order shall remain in force for a period of one 1 year from the date of 
Its publication. 

3. The notification of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, Depart- 
ment of Transport, S.O. 1789 dated the 8th August, 1959 Is hereby cancelled. 

[No, 28-M.L,(71)/59,] 

S. K. GHOSH, Dy. Secy, 


(Indian Posts and Telegraphs Department) 

(Office of the Director General of Posts and Telegraphs) 

New Delhi, the 14 th January 1960 

S.O. 219. — In pursuance of Syb-rule (5) of rule 430 of the Ipdlan Telegraphs 
rules 1951, the Central Government hereby specifies thei 7th day of February 1960 
as .the date on which Message Rate System will be introduced at Ghaziabad 
Telephone Exchange. 

[No. 11-1/00-PHC.] 
B. G. DESHMUKH, Under Secy. 


(Department of Communications and Civil Aviation) 

New Delhi, the' 15 th January 1900 

S.O. 220. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub-section 
(1) of section 14 of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954 (37 of 1954), 
the Central Government hereby authorises the Health Officer, Notified Area Bhu- 
baneswar, being a food inspector in the State of Orissa, to exercise the powers of 




369 


Sec, 3 (ii)] THE GAZE I EE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1'JfiO/MAGltA 3, 1881 

a food inspector under sections 10 and 11 of the said Act at the Bhubaneswar 
airport. 

[No. 18-VE(162)/59.] 
M. L. WIDHANI, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING & SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 14 th January 1960 

S.O. 221 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
17 of the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 (30 
of 1952), the Central Government hereby directs that the powers exercisable by 
it under section 6 , section 7, section 8 [except clause (b) of sub-section (1)] and 
section 13 of the said Act shall be exercisable also bv the Land Acquisition 
Officer, Jullundur, in the State of Puniab, in respect of any property situated 
within the District of Ludhiana provided that the power under the said section 8 
in so far as it relates to fixing of compensation by agreement shall not be exer- 
cised except with the previous concurrence of the Central Government. 

[No. EE-ll(3)/59.] 

S.O. 222. — In pursuance of clause (b) of section 2 of the Requisitioning and 
Acquisition of Immovable Property Act. 1952 (30 of 1952), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby authorises the Land Acquisition Officer, Jullundur, in the State of 
Punjab, to perform the functions of a competent authority qnder the said Act 
for the areas falling within the District of Ludhiana. 


[No. EE-U(3)/59.] 
S. P. SAKSENA, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 14 th January I960 

S.O. 223.-— In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of 
the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules for regulating 
the recruitment to the post of Welding Supervisor in the G. T. H. Calcutta under 
the Dte. General of Supplies and Disposals, namely: — 

1. Short title. — These rules may be called Welding Supervisory (Government 
Test House, Calcutta) Recruitment Rules, 1960. 

2 Recruitment etc. — The classification, pay scale, method of recruitment 
and other matters pertaining to the post of Welding Supervisor shall 
he as shown in the relevant columns of the Schedule appended to 
these Rules. 

3. Disqualification. — No male candidate, who has more than one wife living 
or no female candidate who has married a person having already a 
wife living shall be eligible for appointment to the post referred to in 
rule 2 : 

Provided that the Centra] Government may, in any exceptional case, and for 
reasons to be recorded in writing, exempt any person from the operation of this 
rule. 


- Scheduph 

1 . Name of post ..... Welding Supervisor. 

2 . Number of posts . . . . .1 (One) 

3 . Its classification Snd Whether gazetted or Non-ministerial (Class III) Non-gazctled. 
non-gazetred. 

4 . Scale of pay ..... 

5 . Whether Selection post or not 


Rs. 100 5 125 — EB — 6 — ,185. 

Selection post. 



370 the gazette of india : January 23 , i%o/magha 3 . i«ai [Past n 


e. Age limit for direct recruitment 


7 . Education and other qualifications . 


8 . Whether age and educational qualifications 
prescribed for direct recruitment will also 
apply in case of recruitment by promotion or 
transfer. 

9 . Period of probation ... 

10 . Methods of recruitment and percentage of 
vacancies to be filled by the various modes. 

11. In case of vacancies filled by promotion, 
transfer etc. grades/sources from which 
promotions etc. are to be made. 


Not exceeding 35 years in the case of direct 
recruitment. Relaxable in the case of Sqh- 
duled Caste/Tribes, displaced and other 
special categories of persons in accordancc 
with the orders of the Govt, of India issued 
from time to time. 

Must have studied uptp the Secondary Stan- 
dard, Should have a thorough knowledge 
of Electrical and Gas Welding with at least 
7 years’ experience of precision welding of 
engineering materi als in a factory or orgahiba- 
tion of repute. Should also have working 
experience ot drilling, sawing and shaping 
machines. 

Age limit will not apply, bin other qualifica- 
tions will apply. 


2 years for direct recruits and i year for depart- 
mental promoters. 

By promotion, if suitable candidates are avail- 
able from amongst the Govt, Test House 
staff ; otherwise by direct recruitment. 

From the ranks of Electric Welder, Instrument 
Maker, Instrument Mechanic (Electrical), 
Operators and Mistries of the Govt, Test 
House possessing the requisite qualifications 
and experience specified ih item 7 . 

TNo. ESII-491 18)/59,J 


New Delhi, the 18th January 1900 

S.O. 224. — It is hereby notified that S.O. 1652 published in the Gazette of 
India, Part II, Section 3(11) dated the 25th July, 1959, has reference to the original 
rules notified in this Ministry’s notification S.O. 1614 published in the Gazette of 
India, Part II, Section 3(iil dated the 18th July, 1959. 

INo. ESII.49(2)/59.J 
R. RAJAGOPALAN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 14 th January 1960 

S.O. 225. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 62 of the Adminis- 
tration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (31 of I960), the Central Government 
hereby declares that with effect from the date of publication of thl3 notification 
the provisions of the said Act shall cease to apply to, or in relation to the class 
of property described In the Schedule. 

The Schedule 

Any agricultural land of kutcha house situated in the Bharatpur district of 
the State of Rajasthan, the possession of which has been restored to anv Gaddi 
Muslim belonging to Bharatpur district who never migrated to Pakistan but left 
for other parts in India and subsequently returned to the said district lor 
permanent resettlement therein. 

[No. 14(7)/57-Frop ] 
S. PRASADA, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 8 th January 1960 

S.O. 226. — Whereas the Central - Government is of the opinion that it i3 
necessary to acquire the evacuee properties, specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed, in the State ol Uttar Pradesh, for a nubbe purpose, being a purpose 
connected with the relief and rehabilitation of displaced persons, including pay- 
ment of compensation to such persons; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the bowers conferred by section 12 of the Dis- 
placed Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954)* it is 
notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire, and hereby acquires 
the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule hereto annexed. 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23. 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 371 


The Schedule 


SI. Particulars of the Property Name of the locality and 

No. town in which the evacuee Name of Evacuee 

property situated 


i 


2 


3 


4 


1. House M2/214 . 

2. House Number M2/210 

3. House Number M2'209 


I House Number 283 


2. House Number 273 . 


DISTT. ALIGARH 

Mohalla Krishana tola Bhsan Tlahi and Imam Ilahi, 
Aligarh. sons of Hazi K'run Ilahi. 

Mohalla Krishana tola Ehsan Ilahi ano In. am Ilahi 
Aligarh sons of Hazi K ararn Ilahi. 

Mohalla Krishana tola Abdul Hamid. 

Aligarh. 

DISTT. HA MIR PUR 


Situated at Mohalla Upr- Sri Gafoor, son of Sri Raza 
aus, Maudaha, District Mohmmamed. 

Hami r pur. 

Do. Do. 


DISTT. PRATAPGARH 


1. 201/2 .... Mohalla Bela Devi Road, Sadique alias Sadiq, son of 

Pratapgarh. Mohammed Yusuf. 

2. House Number 112, CD . Mohalla , Paltan Bazar, Mohammed Hanifand Mohammed 

Prampgarh. Naim, sons of Vakil Ahmed: 


DISTT. ALLAHABAD 


1. House Number 99 (old) 

2. 1 House Number 47-(B-Por- 
tion). 


Lasker Lines, Canton- Sri Abdul Khaliq, son of late 
ment, Allahabad. Hayar Mohammad. 

Leader Road, Allahabad. Sri Israr Husain, Sri Sardar 
Husain, Srimati Tahira, Srimati 
Kudsia and Srimati Ayesha, 
sons and daughters of late 
S. Anwer Hussain. 


DISTT. RAMPUR 

1. Plot of land . . . In M malla Azadullahpur, Rais Ahmad, son of Raisa, son 

Tehsil Milak Rampur. of Mehndo. 

DISTT. BANDA 

1. House .... Situated at Mohalla Alar- Sri Kalloo, son of late Sri Alah 

dan Naka Banda. Bux. 


[No. 1 (121 ?)/58/Comp.III/Prop. /Part IV.] 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 8th January 1960 

S.O. 227. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 of the Adminis- 
tration of Evacuee Property Act. 1950 (31 of 1950) the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shri I. N. Chib, as Custodian General of Evacuee Property, with effect-' 
from 7th December. 1959 afternoon. 


iNo. 16(1 1)-Admn (Prop) /59.J 
KANWAR BAHADUR, Dy. Secy. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part II 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi , the 15th Jctnuary 1960 

S.O. 228'. In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of Section 3 

of the Displaced Persona (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 (No. 12 of 1954). 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S. W. Shiveshwarkar, I-C.S.. as 
Chief Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such Commissioner by or under the said Act, with effect from the 
15th January, 1960. 


[No. 11(1) /CSC./ AI-60.] 

S.O. 229. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of 
Section 3 of the Displaced Person^ (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S. W. Shiveshwarkar, 
I.C.S as Chief Settlement Commissioner, for the pur-pose of performing the 
functions assigned to such Commissioner by or under, the said Act, with effect 
from the 15th January, 1960. 

[No. ll(l)/CSC/AI-60/I.] 

S.O. 230. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Adminlstra- 1 - 
tion of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (31 of 1950) the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shri S. W. Shiveshwarkar, I.C.S., as Custodian General of Evacuee Pro- 
perty, with effect from the 15th January, 1960. 

[No. 11 (1) /CSC/AI-60/II.J 
K. B. MATHUR, Under Secy. 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 12 th January 1960 

S.O, 231. — In exercise of the powers conferred by- sub-section (1) of section 3 
of the Displaced Persons (Compensation .and Rehabilitation) Act. 1954 (44 of 
1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Balmokand, P.C.S., Deputy 
Custodian of Evacuee Property, Punjab, to the post of an Assistant Settlement 
Commissioner in the State of Punjab, for the 'purpose of performing in addition 
to his own duties as Deputy Custodian of Evacuee Property, the functions assigned 
to an Assistant Settlement Commissioner by or under the said Aot, in respect 
of agricultural lands, shops and other immovable properties in any rural areas. 

[No. F. 3(43)Policy-II/59.] 

H. S. NAIR, Under Secy. 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 15 th January 1960 


S.O. 232.— In 
of Section 34 of 

(1) Shri 

(2) Shri 

(3) Shri 

(4) Shri 

(5) Shri 

(6) Shri 

(7) Shri 
'(8) Shri 

(9) Shri 


exercise of the powers conferred on me by Sub-Section (2> 
the Di placed Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 

1954 (44 of 1954), I, S. W. Shivesh- 
I. N. Chib, D.C.S.C. , warkar hereby delegate with effect 

T. C. Aggarwal, D.C.S.C. from 15th January, 1960 to the mar- 

Y. L. Taneja, S. C. ginally noted offices, the following 

M. r S. Chaddah, S. C. powers of the Chief Settlement Com- 

missioner: — 

1. Power to hear appeals under 
section 25 of the said Act. 

2. Power to hear revisions under 
Section 24 of the said Act. 


T. C. Gupta, S. C. 

C. P. Sapra, S. C. 

M. L. Vijih, S. C. 

G. B. Laiwani, S. C. 

H. C. Hans, A. S. C. 


[No. 11 (1) /CSC/AI-0O/III.] 

S.O. 233. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Sub-Section 12) of 
^ °^.^e Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 (XII of 
1954) read with rule 99 of the rules framed under Section 40 of the Displaced 
Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act. 19£4 (44 of 1P54). I. S. W. 



3*C. fl (li)j , At GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGMA 5, 1831 373 


Shiveshwarkar, hereby ' delegate to Sarvashri Y. L. Taneja and Mehar Singh 
Chaddah, Settlement Commissioners with effect from lbth January, 1960 tne 
following poweis ol the Chiel Settlement Commissioner: — • 

1. Power to allocate Rehabilitation Grant Applications to Settlement Offi- 

cers by general or special ' order undei sub-section (1) of Section 4 
of the said Act, 1 

2. Power to require a Settlement Officer to appoint one or more persons to 

advise him in any proceeding pending before him, under Sub-Section 
12) of Section 6 of the said Act. 

3. Power to transfer any Rehabilitation Grant Application pending before 

a Settlement Officer to another Settlement Officer under Section 7 of 
the said Act. 

4. Power to call for the record of any case decided by the Settlement Offi- 

cer and pass order in the case under proviso to Sub-Section (3) of 
Section 4 of the said Act. 

[No. 11 (l)/CSC/AI-60/IV.] 

S.O. 234. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Sub-Section (2) of 
Section 10 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 (XII of 
1954), I S. W. Shiveshwarkar hereby delegate to Sarvashri Y. L. Taneja and 
Mehar Singh Chaddah, Settlement Commissioners with effect from 15th January, 
1060, the following pow-ers of the Chief Settlement Commissioner: — 

1. Power to transfer cases to Settlement Officers by general or special order 

under Sub-Section (1) of Section 4 of the said Act. 

2. Power to require a Settlement Officer to appoint one or more persons to 

advise him in any proceedmg pending before him, under Sub- 
Section (2) of Section G of the said Act. 

3. Power to transfer any case pending before a Settlement Officer to an- 

other Settlement Officer under Section 7 of the said Act. 

[No. 11(1) /CSC/AI-60/ V, ] 

S. W. SHIVESHWARKAR, 
Chief Settlement Commissioner. 


Office of, the Chief Settlement Commissioner 1 

New Delhi, the 15 th January 1960 

S.O. 235. — In exercise; of the powers conferred on me by Sub-Section (3) 
Df Section 55 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, (31 of 1950), I S. W. 
Shiveshwarkar, hereby delegate with effect from 15th January, 1960, to all Deputy 
and Assistant Custodians Gereral of Evacuee Property all powers vested in me 
under the said Act. 

[No. 11(1) /CSC/AI-60 /VI. ] 
S. W. SHIVESHWARKAR, 
Custodian General of Evacuee Property, 


Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner 
ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 12 th January 1960 

S.O. 236. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of Section 
34 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act; 1954 (44 of 
1954) I, Shrl I. N. Chib, Chief Settlement Commissioner, hereby delegate to 
Shri Jagmohan Lai Tandon, P.C.S., Assistant Settlement Commissioner, Punjab, 
the powers conferred upon me under . Section 23, 24 and 28 of the said Act for 
the purpose of passing necessary orders under these sections in so far as they 
relate to the custody, management and disposal of property (including agri- 
cultural land) in the State of Punjab in a rural area as defined in clause (f) of 
rule 2 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Rules, 1955, 
which forms part of the Compensation Pool. 


[No. F. 3(43)Policy-II/59.] 



THE GAZETTE OF INDL\ ; JANUARY 2$, 1900/MAGrtA 3, 1661 11 


New Delhi, the 13 th January 1960 

S.O. 237. — In eXemse of the powers confeired by .sub-section (2) of section 
3,i of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 ot 
1054) J, Shri I. N. Chib, I.A.S., Chief Settlement Commissioner, hereby nuthouse 
Shri P. N. Blianot, Regional Settlement Commissioner, New Delhi, to make a 
complaint in witting m a com 1 o£ Lluv against any person, who furnishes , m his 
application for payment ot compensation or in declaration under Chapter X ot 
the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Rules, 1905. any 
information which he knows or has reason to believe to be false or which ho 
does not believe to be true. This order will take effect from the date Shri P. N, 
Bhanot took over charge as i-mgi mat Settlement Commissioner, New Dejhi. 

[No. F, 10(2B)Comp.II/5H-Policy-l.] 

S.O. 238, — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub-scction (2) of 
Section 34 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Apt, 3 954 
(44 of 1954) I, Shri I. N. Chib, I.A.S., Chief Settlement Commissioner, hereby 
delegate my powers for the recovery of any amount Daid to a displaced persons 
which was not payable to him or which was in excess of any amount payable 
to him, as arrears of land revenue as required under sub-section (2) of section 24 
of the said act, to Shri P, N. Bhanot, Regional Settlement Commissioner, New 
Delhi, from the date he tool^ over charge as Regional Settlement Commissioner, 
New Delhi, 


[No, F. 4 (3) Comp. II/ 57-Pohcy-I.l 
I. N. CHIB, Chief Settlement Commissioner. 

MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 13th January 1960 

S.O. 239. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Dispules Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government heieby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Messrs. H. B. Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia and then workman. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL. DELHI 

Present 

Shri E. Krishna Murti, 

Central Govt, Industrial Tribunal. 

17th December, 1959. 

I.D, No. 443 of 1959 
Between 

The Employers in relation to M/s. R, B. Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia 

AND 

Their workman. 

Shri Yashwant Sinha Nahar for the management. 

Shri Parma Nand Tripathi for the workman. 

AWARD 

By G.O. No. LRII-61(10)/58, dated the 6th February, 1959, the industrial dis- 
pute, between the employers in relation to M/s R, B. Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia 
and their workman, has been referred to this Tribunal for adjudication under 
Section 10 f 1) (cl) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

2. The term of reference is as follows:— 

Whether the termination of service of Shri Devi Singh, Mechanical 
Engineer, and the withholding of his wages for the period from 1st 
March to 2nd April 1958, by the management of M/s. R. B. Seth Ram 
Prasad Rajgarhia are justified, and, if not, to what relief he is 

entitled? 



375 


Sec. -3 (iijj THE GAzEl IE UF INDIA . JANUARY 23, lyfiO/MAGHA 3, 1M1 


3. II is alleged m the statement of claim, that Shri Devi Singh was appointed 
bv the proprietor of Messrs. Rajasthan Mineral & Co,, as Mechanical Engineer, in 
their mines from 1st March 1936, that his appointment was confirmed by letter 
dated 21 si May 1,956, that, according to the practice prevailing in the Company 
oi iht opposite party, of which Messrs. R. B. Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia happened 
to be lit e solo proprietor, the employee.-, are being transferred from one concern 
to anothci, without any change, that Messrs. R. B. Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia 
art also the sole proprietors of the following companies, namely: — 

tl) M/s. Hind Mica Co. Ltd., Bhilwara, 

(2) M/s. Rajasthan Mineral & Co., Bhilwara, and 

13) M/s. Rajputana Corporation Ltd., Jaipur, 

that tile opposite party are lunmng their business under different names to evhde 
income-tax, that all these concerns have their Head Office at Calcutta, that the 
opposite party had paid wages to Shu Devi Singh, that the opposite party was 
not well disposed towards him, on account of the demands made by him, and on 
account oi his membership ot the trade union, that Shri Devi Singh was not 
permit led to join work at Moti Mine at Madhorajpura on 2nd April 1058 by the 
Circle Supervisor under instructions from the Jaipur Ollice, that no notice was 
served upon him, that no charge -sheet was given, that no enquiry was held, that 
he was summarily dismissed, that he was given a clearance certificate on 2nd 
April 1956 by the Store Keeper of the Company, that the termination of service 
of Sill i Devi Singh is unlawful, that tarned wages from 1st March 1958 to 2nd 
April j y jL, wages towards privilege leave of two months, one month's notice pay, 
and gratuity benefit have all been withheld, that an amount equivalent to Rs. 7.25 
has also not been paid, that Shri Devi Singh should be re-instated in service, 
together with back wages, and that the several amounts due to him should also 
be directed to be paid. 

4. The contention on behalf ot the opposite party is, that it is not true., that 
there was relationship of employer and employee between the opposite party 
and Shn Devi Singh, that he was never employed by the opposite party, that he 
was not dismissed by the opposite paity, that the opposite party is a sole pro- 
prietor concern, ot which R B. Sell) Ram Prasad Rajgarhia is the sole proprietor, 
that it is not true, lhat Mi-ms K. B. Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia are the owners 
of tin othu companies, as mentioned in the claim statement, that the allegations 
about tlie Pansier of employees fjom one concern to the other are also denied, 
lhat ihtne is no industrial dispute between Shri Devi Singh, and the opposite 
partv, that the reference is without jurisdiction, that the transfer of the dispute 
from Bombay to the Industrial Tribunal of Delhi is also without jurisdiction, and 
that the workman is not entitled to relief. 

0. The issues, that arise for determination, are 

(1) Whether the reference is valid? 

1.2) Whether the reference to this Tribunal is without jurisdiction? 

(3) Was the workman an employee of Messrs. R. B, Seth Ram Prasad 

Rajgarhia, the opposite party? 

(4) Was his service terminated, as contended by the workman, by the 

opposite party7 

15) If his service was terminated, is such termination valid? Is it wrong- 
ful, as alleged? 

(6) To what relief, if any, is he entitled? 

Issue Nos. 3 and 4 

G Ai the outset it ought to he sc' n, that the reference is of a dispute, between 
the employers m relation to M/s. R. B, Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia, and their 
workman, in respect of the matter specified m the Schedule. The question 
referied is, whether the termination of service of Shri Devi Singh, Mechanical 
Engintei, and withholding ol wages from 1st March PTiH to 2nd April 1958 by 
the management of Messrs R. B Seth Ram Prasad Raigarliia arc justified. The 
case of the workman. Shri Devi Smpb, and the Union is, that he was an employee 
of Messrs R E, Seth Ram Prasad Rajgana, Ihe opposite party, that his services 
wore terminated by the management of the said concern, and that, therefore, 
he Is entitled to relief against the said concern. 



376 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : 'JANUARY 23, J960/MAGHA 4, 1881 


[Part II 


7, According to the claim statement, Shri Devi Singh was appointed by 
the 1 proprietor of Messrs. ‘ Rajasthan Mineral and Co., Bhilwara, as Mechanical' 
Engineer, from 1st March 11)5(1. Subsequently, his services were confirmed by 
letter dated 21st May 1956. Wc have Ext. W/I, which is admitted by the other 
side, and this shows, that Shri Devi Smgh was appointed as Mechanical Engineer 
by the Rajasthan Mineral & Co., on a salary oi Rs. 225 per month, with Rs. 15 
ag dearness allowance, fiom 1st March 195G. 


8. In paragraph 2 of the claim statement it is alleged, that, according to the 
pructice prevailing in the Company of the opposite party, of which Messrs. R. B. 
Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia, Bhilwara, happened to be the sole proprietor, the 
employees, officers, workmen, machinery e.tc. were all, transferred from one 
concerfi to another. The said Messrs. R. B. Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia of 
Bhilwara, the opposite party, are the sole proprietors of the said firm of R. B. Seth 
Ram Prasad Rajgarhia, and also of the following companies namely, (1) Messrs. 
Hind Mica Co. Ltd., (2) Messrs. Rajasthan Mineral & Co,, Bhilwara, and (3) 
Messrs. Rajputana Corporation Ltd., Jaipur. It is next alleged, that the opposite 
party is running the business in different names to avoid payment of income-tax. 
Shri Devi Singh however incurred the dispieasure of the opposite- party, and, 
therefore, he wag sent out of service on 2nd April 1958. He was prevented from 
joining his work at Moti Mine at Madhorajpura, in Jaipur District, by the Circle 
Supervisor of the opposite party, under instructions from the Jaipur Office. It 
is alleged, that the termination of service of Shri Devi Singh by the opposite 
party is without any enquiry, and is arbitrary, and that it is unjustified. 

The workman claims: — 

(i) Earned wages, from 1st March 1158 to 2nd April 1958 @ Rs. 265 per 
month — !^s. ‘ 265.00. 

(ll) Towards privilege leave of two months @ Rs. 265 per month— Rs. 530.00. 

(iii) One month’s notice pay as compensation — Rs. 265.00. 

(iv) Gratuity benefit at the rate of 15 days pay for two years of service, 

equal to one month’s wages — Rs. 265.00. 

(v) Towards outstanding vouchers — Rs. 7.25. 

9. On behalf of the opposite party, the allegations made in the claim statement 
are denied. In paragraph 5 it is alleged, that the opposite party 'is in no way 
connected with the Rajasthan Mineral & Co., Messrs. Rajputana Corporation Ltd., 
that the management of the said concerns are separate, and that they are not 
connected in any manner. It is next alleged, that each Individual concern 
maintains separate accounts, and that they are separately taxed; and that they 
are separate legal entities. It is the case of the opposite party, that Shri Devi 
Singh was never employed by them and was not their employee. In paragraph, 
8 it is alleged, that the opposite party is the sple proprietory concern, of which 
R B. Solh Ram Prasad Rajgarhia is the sole proprietor. The contention on behalf 
ol the opposite party is, that Shri Devi Smgh was never an employee of Messrs. 
R. B. Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia, that the said concern never employed him, nor 
dismissed him, that there is no dispute between the said firm and this workman, 
and, that he is not entitled to relief against the opposite party. 

10. It thus fails to be determined, whether Shri Devi Singh was ever at any 
time an employee of Messrs. R. B, Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia and was, dis- 
charged by them. There is no doubt, that such a concern exists. In the written 
statement it is admitted, that it is the sole proprietory concern of R. B. Seth Ram 
Prasad Rajgarhia. However, the question is, whether Shri Devi Singh wag a 
workman of that concern, and .whether he was employed Or discharged by the 
said concern. 

11. On behalf of the opposite party, we have two documents, namely, Exts. 
M/1 and 2. Ext. M/1 is a copy of a decree in a partition suit No. 2480 of 1955, in 
the High Court of Calcutta, between Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia on the one hand, 
and his three sons, $arvashri Parshotam Lai Rajgarhia, Mahabir Prasad Rajgarhia, 
and Vasdev Lai Rajgarhia, and also Shrimati Ratni Devi Rajgarhia. 

12. The defendants are all described as residing at 13, Harrington Road, 
Calcutta. The decree shows, that all the suit immovable properties were those 
In Schedule A, The properties described in Schedule B were allotted to the 
plaintiff, the father, and those in Schedules C, D, and E to the three- sons 
respectively, Shrimati Ratni Devi gave up her right and no share was allotted 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1560 /MACH A 3, 1881 37^ 


to her, The decree is dated 16th March 1956. All the, immovable properties, 
owned by the family and as between the lather and sons, were divided, according 
to the partition decree. Item No. 22 of Schedule A relates to certain Mica Mines, 
beds, veins, etc. situate in 65 Survey Tollas, , lying in Mahal Katsakra Ash Mai 

Dakhali. 

13. The plaintiff and the defendants 1 — 3 were euch assigned l/4th share in 
the said Item No. 22. The, decree does establish the contention on behalf ot the 
opposite party, that the father and the sons are divided and that they have also 
been living separately. This is also the evidence of Shri Tapeswar Singh 
MW 1 who is the Director of the, Rajputana Corporation Ltd. We have also Ext. 
M/2, which is the certificate of registration Messrs. Rajasthan Mineral & Co., 
daLed 5th March 1956, issued by the Registrar of Firms, West Bengal. It shows, 
that the three partners therein arc IJarvashri Pavshotam Lai, Mahabir Prasad, and 
Vasdev, Lai, their permanent address being 13, Harrington Street, Calcutta, on thg 
evidence it is established that the father and sons are divided from each other, 
and that Messrs. Rajasthan Mineral & Co. is owned by the three partners, the 
sons, and that the father is not a partner therein. The contention on behalf of 
the workman, that R. B, Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia is the proprietor of Messrs. 
Rajasthan Mineral & Co., as alleged in the claim statement, is belied by Ext. M/2. 

14. The evidence of Shri Tapeswar Singh is that Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia 
has shares in all the four concerns, namely, (i) Messrs. Rajputana Corporation 
Ltd., (ii) Messrs, Rajasthan Mineral & Co., (iii) Messrs. Hind Mica Co. Ltd., and 
(iv) Messrs. R. B. Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia. The Head Office of all the four 
concerns is in Calcutta. But he cannot say under whose signatures orders are 
received from Calcutta for management of all thei lour concerns. If we have 
regard to Ext. M/2, this shows, that Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia is not a partner 
in Messrs, Rajasthan Mineral & Co. It is in the evidence of the workman, that 
there is a common store for all the four concerns at Bhilwara, and that stocks 
were being transferred from Jaipur to Bhilwaia, and vice versa. The evidence 
of Shri Tapeswar Singh is, that the same compressors were being used by euch 
of the four companies now and then. He deposes that there are separate office 
for each of the four concerns. They are all situated in the same building. They 
are all separately maintaining theii accounts Except Messrs. Rajputana Corpo- 
ration Ltd., all the other three concerns are in Bhilwara. Originally he was 
the agent of Hind Mica Co. Ltd. He was not getting any monthly pay. He was 
appointed by Seth Ram Parsbad Rajgarhia and his sons as Agent, and the four 
were paying him commission. What is important to note is, that the four Com- 
panies, namely, (i) Messrs, Rajputana Corporation Ltd. Jaipur, (ii) Messrs. 
Rajasthan Mineral & Co, Bhilwara, (iii) Hind Mica Co. Ltd,, Bhilwara, and (iv) 
Messrs. R B. Seth Ram Parshad Rajgarhia, are all different independent concerns. 
The evidence on record is not sufficient and satisfactory to prove, that Messrs. 
R. B. Seth Ramparshad Rajgarhia, the opposite party in this reference, is the 
sole proprietor of all the four concerns, as alleged in the claim statement. It 
may be at the best, that Seth Ram Parshad Rajgarhia and his three sons have 
shares in some of these concerns, but that does not prove, that the opposite party 
in this reference is the sole proprietor of all the four concerns, as alleged in the 
claim statement. 

15. A consideration of the entire evidence shows, that Shri Devi Singh was an 
employee not of the opposite party, Messrs. R. B Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia, 
but only of the Rajputana Corporation Ltd. at the time he was discharged' from 
service. According to the document, Ext. W/l, already refcired to, he was 
appointed by the Rajasthan Mineral & Co. in May, 1956. According to the 
evidence of Shri Devi Singh, Ext. W/l is signed by Modi Sahib, the Mining 
Engineer, though he adds, that the original appointment letter was signed by 
Shri Vasudev Lai, who admittedly was one of the partners of the said Company, 
according to Ext. M/2. In cross-examination, the workman deposes, that he 
was transferred to Rajputana Corporation Lid. on 6th May 1957. He came back 
on 21st May 1957 to Messrs. Raiasthan Mineial & Co. After 9th July 1957 he 
was working in Rajputana Corporation Ltd. From then onwards till be was 
sent away he was working in the Rajputana Corporation Ltd. He explains, that 
no order of transfer was given to him. but he was fold to work in lhat Company 
orally. He was told so by Shri Prabhu Daval. who is said to be the General 
Manager of the three concerns, (i) Messi.s. Hind Mica Co Ltd., (ii) Messrs, 
Rajasthan Mineral & Co., and (iii) R. B. Seth Ram Prasad Rajggrhia & Co. Till 
he was sent to Messrs. Rajputana Corporation Ltd., his pay was being paid bv 
Messrs. Rajasthan Mineral & Co, After he went to Messrs. Rajputana Corpora- 
tion Ltd,, his pay was being paid by that Company, and he passed vouchers in 
favour of Messrs. Rajputana Corporation Ltd. But till 9th July 1957 he was 
paid his pay at Bhilwara by Messrs. Rajasthan Mineral & Co. He adds, that 



378 i'Ht GA/LTI £ OF INDIA: JANUARY ‘ 43 , 1 % 0 /MAGHA 3 , 1881 [9 Am 11 


he worked in some Mines, in Bhilwara on 9, 10, 16 and 18th August, 1957, even 
alter his transfer to Messis. Rajputana Coiporation Ltd. Shn Lai is the Manager 
of Rajputana Corporation Ltd The Director cit Messrs. Hind Mica Co. Ltd is 
Shn Dhandania. Accoiding tu the evidence qf Shn Tapesliwai Singh, he is a 
Director of iho Rajputana Corporation from the la‘t 5 or 6 yearn. He says, 
that Shn Devi Singh was an employee of Messrs Rajasthan Mineral & Co. 
lonucily. Then he went away tu Jaipur. Messrs. Rajasthan Mineral & Co 
sent him to Jaipur, but he cannot say in what month and year he was sent to 
Jaipill. Shn Devi Singh wr, solving in Messrs^ Rajputana Corporation Ltd, It 
is seen Irom the evidence that Shn Devi Singh was originally appointed by 
the Rajasthan Mineral & Co , and that in July 1957 he was transferred to Messrs. 
Rajputana Corporation Ltd What is important to note, is that, on his own 
admission, he was working in Messrs. Rajputana Corporation Ltd from July, 1957, 
till he we>o discharged from srrvice. It is perfectly clear from the evidence, that 
he was an employee 1 only of Messrs. Rajpuiaua Corporation Ltd., when he was 
sent away on 2nd April 1958. I tail to see how it can be held, that he was an 
employee of Messrs. It E Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia, the opposite party in this 
case, or how he can claim any relief against the opposite party. It is in the 
evidence of Shri Devi Singh himself, that Messrs Rajputana Corporation Ltd. 
is a public limited company Shu Vasudev Lai is a Director ol that Company 
but he docs not know, whether Shu Ram Prasad Ji is a Director of Messrs. 
Rajpulana Corporation Ltd. It is established on the evidence beyond any 
doubt, that Messrs. R. B. Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia are not the sole proprietor 
of Messrs Raiputna Corporation Ltd. It may be that this concern has shares in 
the Rajputana Corporation Ltd., but it is important to note, that it is a public 
limited company, There is no question of sole proprietorship therein. It is in 
the evidence of Shri Devi Singh, that, after he went to Messrs Rajputana Corpo- 
ration Ltd., his pay was being paid by the said Company, and he passed vouchers 
in favour of Messrs. Rajputana Corporation Ltd, Even in the claim statement 
it is alleged, that the Rajputana Corporation Ltd., was in Jaipur. Shri Lai was 
the Manager of the Corporation. When Shn Devi Singh was an employee of 
the Rajputana Corporation Ltd., which is a puhhc limited company, from 9th 
July 1957 till his discharge on 2nd April 1958, I am unable to hold, that he is 
entitled to claim any relief against the opposite pruty in this reference, Messrs. 
R. R Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia. The workman was not an employee of the 
opposite party herein, and was not discharged bv the said opposite parly. 

I 

16. Howevet, it has been alleged, that work was being done by Shri Devi Singh 
in all the tour concerns. Tie stales, that hr has been working m all the Mines 
according to directions. This evidence is sought to be supported by that of 
WW2, who is himself the owner of a mine since 21st February 1958. _ According 
to the evidence of Shri Hira Lai, WW2, he was working for R. B. Seth Ram 
Prasad Rajgarhia Co. as Mines Manager. He was woikmg as Mines Manager 
of all the three concerns. He was being sent to Jaipur now and again. Ilfs 
service was in all the three concerns. In cross-examination he admits, that Seth 
Ji did not give him any vouchers or letters under his signatuies lie explains, 
that he was first appointed by the Seth Ji, Seth Ram Piasari Rajgarhia, in 1955, and 
that he might have worked with him for 2 or 3 years. Tie was being made to 
work in all the Mines. He had a jeep at his disposal It may be, that this witness 
wa L s appointed to work in all the Mines, but his evidence' cannot be taken as 
satisfactorily establishing, that the opposite party herein is the sole proprietor 
of all the thiec other concerns, referred to in the evidence His evidence, that 
Seth Ji is known as the proprietor of all the concerns, is not of any value, and 
is a mere assertion of belief. 

17. Nextly, reliance has been placed on Exts W/2-5. Ext. W/2 purports to 
be a letter signed by Shu Prabhu Dayal. This was signed apparently on behalf 
of the Rajasthan Mineral & Co Exts. W/3 and 4 are letters in February 1958 in 
relation to certain stores. According to the evidence of Shri Devi Singh, Exts. 
W/3 and 4 relates to receipt of stores. Ext. W/3 is .signed by Shri Ram Richhpal, 
the Store-Keeper, and Ext. W/4 by Shri Gajunand, who was working in the 
office. There is no doubt about the genuineness of these documents, but it is 
important to note, that these relate to Messrs. Rajputana Corporation Ltd. It 
is in the evidence ol Shri Devi Singh, that Shri Ram Richhpal is a Store Keeper 
m Messrs. Rajputana Corporation Ltd., which has its office in Madhorajpura. 
Ext. W/5 is a copy of an original, which is said to be in the office of the Rajputana 
Corporation Ltd. The genuineness of Ext. W/5 is not admitted. Even assuming 
it is true, it, proves, that it is a clearance certificate relating to Messrs. Rajputana 
Coipoinlion Ltd. These documents, which have been relied upon on behulf 
oi the workman, do prove at best, that he was an employee of the Rajputana 
Corporation Ltd, It is the case of the opposite party, that Shri Devi Singh 



5Fc. 3 (ii)J THE GAZETTE OF iMlIA : JANUARY 23, I960 j MAGHA 3, 1881 3^9 


was an employee of the Rajputana Corporation Ltd., which is a public limited 
company, and not of the opposite party', Messrs. R. B. Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia. 
The case of the workman, that he was appointed by the opposite party, Messrs. 
R. B. Seth Ram Prasaa Rajgarhia ana that his services were terminated by the 
saM opposite party, has not been established on the evidence in this case. On the 
contrary, the evidence on record proves, that he was originally an employee, of 
Messrs. Rajasthan Mineral &■ Co., and later of Messrs. Rajputana Corporation Ltd., 
Jaipur. His services were terminated by the Rajputana Corporation Ltd. On 
the evidence of the workman himself, the said company is a public limited com- 
pany. There was no relationship of employer and employee between Messrs. 
R. B. Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia on the one hand, and Shri Devi Singh, workman 
on the other. The workman has mis-eonceived his remedy in seeking relief 
against Me.ssrs. R. B. Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia. I find on' these issues, that 
the workman was not an employee of Messrs. R. B. Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia, 
the opposite party, and that the said opposite party did not terminate his service. 

Issue No. 5. 

18. With reference to the question of termination of service, there is no evi- 
dence in this proceeding to prove, that he was served with any charge-sheet, 6r 
that an explanation was called for or that any enquiry was held. On the material 
on reebrd in ihis proceeding, it is obvious, that the workman’s services were 
terminated, on 2nd April, 1958, arbitrarily and summarily, and in violrtion of the 
principle - of natural justice. Such termination is wrongful, and cannot 
be up-held. 

19. However, this does not help the workman, because he has sought relief 
against a wrong party, when he was an employee of the Rajputana Corporation 
Ltd., and when his services were terminated by that Corporation, a public limited 
company. 


Issues Nos. 1 and 2. 

20. These issues raise the question about the validity of the reference. Firstly, 
it is contended on behalf of the opposite party, that there is no industrial dispute, 
between the workman and the opposite party. Tins contention must be up-helfi. 
I have found above, that Shri Devi, Singh was; not an employee of Messrs. R. B. 
Seth Ram Prasad .Rajgarhia, the opposite party herein, and the said concern did 
not appoint him, or dismiss him, and there was no relationship of employer and 
employee between them at any time. In such circumstances, there is no industrial 
dispute between the workman and the opposite party. 

21. The second objection _ is, that the reference to this Tribunal is without 
jurisdiction. Originally the reference was made to the Second Industrial Tribunal, 
but, because the services of Shri Vyas were unavailable, the reference was 
made to this Tribunal. This is quite legal and valid, and is also justified by 
Section 33B 1 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

Issue No. 6. 

22. In view of my findings on issues No. 3 and 4 Shri Devi Singh is not entitled 
to any relief against the opposite party, herein. 

23. In the result, an award is passed, that Shri Devi Singh is not entitled to 
any relief against the opposite party, Messrs. R. B. Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia. 
No order as to costs. 

E. Krishna Murti, 

(Fourteen pages) 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi. 

The nth December, 1959. 

[No. 61/10/58-LRIL] 


Nero Delhi , the 16 th January 1960 

, , t 

S.O. 240. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Cential Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the West Laikdih Colliery and their workmen. 



jgo THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGMA i, 1881 II 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD. 

Reference No. 58 of 1959. 

Employers in relation the West Laikdih Colliery. 

AND 

Their workmen, 

Dhanbad, the 1th January 1960 

Present: Shri Salim M. Merchant, B.A. LL.B., Presiding Officer. 
Appearances: 

For the Employers : 

Shri S, S. Mukherjea, B.Sc.B.L., Advocate, with Shri K. P. Dey, Manager, 
West Laikdih Colliery. ' 

For the workmen: 

Shri D, Narsingh, M,A LL.B., Advocate, with Shri B. N. Sharma, Member, 
Executive Committee, Colliery Mazdoor Sang. 

Industry: Coal. State: Bihar. 


AWARD 

The Government of India, Ministry of Labour and Employment, by Order 
No. F. No. L.R.II/ 2(154/69 dated 19/21 September, 1959, made In exercise of the 
powers conferied by clause (d) of sub-acction (1) of Section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 47), was pleased to refer to me for adjudication tho 
industrial dispute between the parties above named in respect of the matters 
specified in the following schedule to the said order: — 

Schedule 

"(i) Whether the management was justified in terminating the services of 
Shri K. K. Bakshi, Electric Supervisor. 

(. 11 ) If not, to what relief is he entitled andwith effect from which date?” 


2. After the parties had filed their respective statements, at Yesterday’s hear- 
ing of the dispute after some discussion, the parties filed a memorandum of com- 
promise recording the terms of settlement reached between them and have prayed 
that an award be made m terms thereof. A copy o^ the terms of compromise is 
annexed hereto and marked Annexure ‘A’. As I am satisfied, on the facts and 
circumstances of the case that the terms of settlement are fair and reasonable, I 
make an award in terms thereof. 


3, No order as to cO'Rs. 

Dhanbad, The 7th January, 1960. 


(Sd.) Salim M. Merchant, 

Presiding Officer, Central Government 

Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, 


AnnexUre ‘A’. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL' GOVERNMENT’S INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, 

DHANBAD. 

Reference No, 58 of 1959, 

Employers in relation to West Laikdih Colliery. 

AND 

Their Workmen 

The above named parties state that the above matter has been compromised 
between them on the following; 

Terms 

1. That the Employers shall pay to Sri K. K. Bakshi, the workman concerned 
the sum of Rs. 450 (Four hundred and fifty) only in full and final settlement of 
all his claim and demand till date. 



Sfc. 3 (ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960/ MAG HA 3, 1881 


2. That the above payment of Rs. 450 will be made within 25th January, I960 
to Mr. D. Narsing advocate at his residence for payment to the workman. 

3. That the abovenamed workman will not cress his claim for re-instatement. 

4. That the Parties will bear their respective cost. 

It is therefore prayed that the above Reference may be compromised on 
the terms aforesaid and an award passed accordingly. 


For Workman. 

(D. Narsingh, Advocate). 

6th January, I960. 

(B. N. Sharma), 

6 th January, I960. 

Member, Executive Committee, 

Colliery Mazdoor Sangh. 

6 th January, I960. 

Piesiding 


For employer. 

(S. S. Mukherjea, Advocate), 

6th January, I960. 

(K. P, Dey, Manager). 
6th January, 1960. 


(Sd.) Salim M, Merchant, 

I 

Offtter, Central Government, 

Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad. 

[No. 2/154/59-LRII.l 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 13 th Jamiary 1960 

S.O. 241. — Whereas the Central Government is of oninlon that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Dhemo Main Colliery and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred bv clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 114 of 1947), the. 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether tjic discharge of Shri Ariun Nunia, surface trammer, with effect from 
the 1st July, 1959, was justified and if not to what relief is he entitled and from 
whom, i.e. whether from the management o* Dhemo Main Colliery or the Con- 
tractor, Shri Ram Khelwan? 


fNo, F. 2/196/59-LRII.] 


New Delhi, the 15 th January 1960 

S.O. 242. — Whereas the Central Government is of Opinion that a difficulty or 
doubt has arisen as to the interpretation of paragraph 2 in Annexure “A’ to the 
Award dated the 18th February, 1959 of the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal at Dhanbad in Reference No. 54 of 1958,’ published with S.O, 528, dated 
the 27th February, 1959; 

And ' whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer The 
question for interpretation; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the nowers conferred by section 30A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947). the Central Government hereby refers 
the question specified in the Schedule below for interpretation to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7-A of the said Act. 



382' TTTF GA7F.TTF. OF INDIA JWTURY "1, lOfifPMAC.IT \ 3, 1 R8I [P\rt II 


SfriLiiULL 

Whether the increase of R.s. 3 in the dearness allowance piovided in para 2 
of Annexnre A to the Compromise Award published with the Ministry of Labour 
and Employment Notification No LRII/1 1 (201/58, dated the 27th February, 195!) 
(S.O. 528 ) should be added to the dearness allowance as on 18th February, 1959 
enleulaled at pre-Award rate or to the dearness allowance as on that date 
admissible under para 1 of the said Annexnre ‘A’ to Ihe Award 

TNo. F. LRII-ll(28)/59 ] 

S.O, 243. — Whereas the Central Government' is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation 1o the Cnnara Industrial and 
Rankin# Syndicate Ltd and their workmen in ri sped of llv matter specified In 
the Schedule hereto annexed: 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication: 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 A and clause 
f cl 1 of sub-section (lj of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947). the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which 
Shri K Ramaswamv Gounder B A, ML retired High Court Judge, Madras shall 
bo Ihe Presiding Officer with headquarters at First Line Beach, Madras and 
refers the said dhpute for adjudication to the t aid Industrial Tribunal. 

Schedule 

Whether the clerk of the cash branch m the Canara Industrial and Banking 
Syndicate. Madras who is asked to hold a ktv of the single Jock cash box under 
the existing circumstances is entitled to an allowance under pgya 164(b) of the 
Bank Award and, if not, to what other relief he is entitled. 

[No. LRII-1 0(fl7)/59.j 


New Delhi, the 18th January 1960 

S.O. 244. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists hetween the employers in relation lo the Central Bank of India Ltd., 
New Delhi and their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed; 

And Whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adiudleatinn; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
Ml of section 19 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government heiebv refers the said dispute for adludloation io the industrial Tii- 
bunal, Delhi constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether in the matter of anpointment as Junior Offleer. the supersession of 
Shri N, R. C.hadha a clerk in Ihe Central Bank of India Limited, New Pelhi. by 
+hc promotion or Shri G R Dargon and Shri Raja Ram Naear of the said Bank 
was justified and, if not, to what relief Shri N. R. Chadha is entitled? 

[No. LRII-1 0( 1 64) / 59.] 
TEJA SINGH SAHNI, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 18th January, 1960 

S.O. 245.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 5 
of the Mines Act, 1952 (35 of 1952). the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
Gurbachan Singh Jabhi, Additional, Chief Inspector of Mines, to be the Chief Ins- 
necter of Mines for all the territories to which the said Act extends, with effect 
from, the afternoon of the 18th January, I960, vine Shri Snrwan Singh Grewal. 
granted leave 


[MI-8(84)/59-l 



Sfc, 3 (ii )1 THF. GA 7 FTTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23 1 % 0 /MAGHA 3 . 1881 3S7 


8,0 "46 — In pursuance of sub-section (51 of section 5 of tbc Coal Minot, 
Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1947 (32 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
publishes an estimate of receipts into and expenditure from the General Welfare 
Account of the Coal Mines Labour Housing and General Welfare Fund during the 
year 1 959-GO together with a statement of the accounts for the year 1958-59 and 
a I'epo't oi (he activities financed during that year from the General Welfare 
Aei nuuf of thr said Fund. 


Fsttrnates of Receipts and Fxpendiiure 


Receipts 


Expenditure 

Rs. 27,51,807 

Statement 1 of . he cunts 

Rs. 77, 59,000 

Receipts 


Expenditure 

Opening balance on 1-4-58. 

Rs. 3,19,23,525 

Expenditure during (lie year 

Receipts during the year 

Rsi 3 '. H 3,474 

Rs. 58,23,229 

Closing balance on 31-3-195''. 

Rs. 2,92,83,770 

Total : — 

Rs. 3,51,06,990 

REPORT 

Rs. 3,51,06,999 


The year under review was marked by the opening of two, more Regional 
Hospital’s with attached Maternity & Child Welfare Centies, the conversion of the 
Regional Hospital, Searsole into a T,B. Hospital, the implementation of the Feeder 
Adult Education Centro Scheme, the running of Tailoring Classes for the depen- 
dents of the victims of Chinakuri Colliery accidents and by the organising of the 
first Special Train for coal miners. The progress achieved 111 inspect of various 
activities is given in the following paragraphs. 

I. Hospitai.6 and othkr Medicai Facilities 

1. Central Hospital, Dhanbad. — The hospital whose bed strength had been 
increased to 250 from the previous year entered the eighth year of its existence 
and conlinued to render useful service to the colliery workers suffering from 
various kinds of diseases. The average daily number of in-patients treated in the 
hospital during the year was 266 against 250 during the previous year. 

A tolal of 26,567 patients were treated in the different depaitments of the 
hospital during the year. 

2. Central Hospital, Asansol. — The second Central Hospital of the Fund at 
Kalla, Asansol in the Raniganj Coalfield which started functioning from April, 
1955 was completing the 4th year of its existence. The average daily number of 
in-patients treated in the hospital during the year was 260 against 237 during the 
previous vear. 

Due tn heavy influx of patients, the scheme of expansion of the hospital from 
its existing Iwd strength of 165 to 250 beds was sanctioned b\ Government. 
Construction of additional buildings was started. Sanction of the Government was 
also issued to a scheme of --etting lip u Deep X’ray Therapy Section with necessary 
accessories at the hospital for providing facilities of deep X’ray therapy and 
radium treatment. 

A total of 28,074 patients were treated in the different departments of the 
hospital. 

3 Regional Hospitals.— The Five Regional Hospitals-cum-M,ilernily & Child 
Welfare Ct litres which had been established previously at K itras and Tisra in 
Jlie .Tharia coalfield and at Chora and Searsole in the Raniganj coalfield and Jamai 
in the Pench Valley coalfield continued to render useful se> vice The 30 bed 
Regional Hospit.al-cum-Maternity ft Child Welfare Centre at Naisarai in tlv- 
Ramgarh-Karanpura coalfield was opened bv the Union Deputy Minister for Labou: 
on the 6th December 1958 The O.P D. of the hosnitnl started functioning from 
Ibe 1st August 1950, The Indoor Department of the 18 boded Regional Hospital 



384 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23,' 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [P ART 11 


at Dhanpuri in the Vindhya Pradesh Coalfield started functioning from the 15th 
August 1958. The O.l’.D. was functioning from the previous year. The out-door 
department of the Regionul Hospital, Phusro in the Bokaro Coalfield also started 
functioning during the year. ' 

A total of 29,574 patients were treated at the various Regional Hospitals of the 
Fund during the year. 

As the Ramgarh-Karanpura coalfield is a far flung area and the collieries in 
the Karanpura coalfield are at a distance of 50 to 80 miles from the Regional Hos- 
pital. Naisarai, it was felt that it would be difficult for hospitalisation of emergent 
cases like accidents and to eliminate this difficulty, an arrangement was made with 
the Holi Family Hospital, Mandar for treatment at the cost of the Fund of colliery 
workers in emergent cases till they would be fit to be removed to the Regional 
Hospital, Naisarai. 

4. Maternity and Child Welfare Centres. — (1) Besides the centres attached to 
the Regional Hospitals, a Centre is run by the Fund at Jatachappa in the Pench 
Valley Coalfield. The Fund has appointed Lady Health Visitors in the Chanda, 
Talchfir and Sambalpur Coalfields for Maternity work in those areas. 

(2) Maternity and Child Welfare services were also rendered by the Jharla and 
Asan.iol Mines Boards of Health for. which the Fund was .paying an annual giant 
of Rs. 50.000/- to each of the Boards. For similar arrangement in the Ilazaribagh 
Coalfield sanction of Government was obtained for payment of a grant-ln-ald to the 
Ilazaribagh Mines Board. 

Payment of the annual grant-m-ald of Rs. 1,000/- for maintenance of the 10 bed 
Maternity Block at the Government Hospital, Chanda for treatment of colliery cases 
in the area was continued, 

5. Anli-T.B. Measures.— (i) To afford treatment facilities to colliery workers 
suffering from T.B. the Organisation has been limning two 12 beded T.B. Clinics 
one at Katras in the Jharia Coalfield and the other at Searsole in the Raniganj 
Coalfield. The Regional Hospital section of the Hospitnl-cum-Matcrmty Centre at 
Searsole was converted Into a 25 bed T.B. Hospital during the year, the Maternity 
wing being kept with provision of six beds each for general and Maternity and 
Child Welfare cases. The total number of patients treated at the Katras T.B. 
Clinic was 413 and that at the Searsole Clinic 237. 

(ii) In addition to aforesaid facilities, 67 beds were also reserved by the Fund 
in various Recognised Sanatoria for treatment of colliery T.B. patients. 

Sanclion of Government to the reservation of lime additional beds at the 
Rarnakrishna Mission T.B Sanatorium, Ranchi and five beds at the Yerragada 
Hospital in Andhra Pradesh was issued and steps were taken for execution of 
agreements and admission of patients. 

(ill) On the reeommendation of the T.B. Adviser to the Government Of India, 
it was de 'ided to eonstruet a 100 bed T.B. Bloek as an adjunct +0 each of the two 
Central Hospitals at Dhanbad and Asansol instead of two T.B. Hospitals. 

(iv) The scheme for payment of subsistence allowance at a rate not exceeding 
Rs. 50/- P.M. to the dependents of T B. patients undergoing treatment either as 
In-patients at the Fund's T B Clinics or at the beds reserved by the Fund at various 
sanatoria was continued during the year. 

( v! A pilot scheme of domiciliary treatment to coal mine workers suffering 
from T.B. in the coalfields of Bihar and West Bengal who could not get admission 
either in the T.B. Clinics or at the beds reserved by the Fund was introduced 
during the year. Besides arrangement for free treatment of the patients at the 
centres opened under the scheme, a grant-in-aid for special diet upjo a maximum 
of Rs 50/- per month per patient and a subsistence allowance not exceeding 
Rs. 50/- per month to his dependents if he happened to be the only earning 
member of the Family were being paid for a maximum period of six months, 
The scheme was put into operation from 1st August, 1958, Treatment o*t a 
total of 300 patients was provided for under the scheme. Assessment of the cases 
treated under- the domiciliary T.B, 'treatment scheme revealed results of quite 
an encouraging nature. 

6. Dispensaries. — At the two dispensaries run by the Fund, one at the Bhull 
Township in the Jharia Coalfield and the other at Mugma In the Mugma Coalfield 
a total of 13,230 and 5,088 pew cases respectively were treated. As thei mobile 
medical unit provided in the Mugma Coalfield was not found to be rendering useful 
service, it was transferred to the Damua area of the Pench Valley Coalfield. 



KEC, 3 (il)] THE GAZET'l E OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, J 960/ MAGMA 3, 1881 385 


7. Ayurvedic Dispensaries. — With the. opening ol two Ayurvedic Dispensaries 
in the Rumgarh-Karanpura Coalfield one at Dakra-Buk-Buka in August 1958 
and the other at Central Saunda in November 1958, the Organisation was run- 
ning seven Ayurvedic Dispensaries. They were found to be very popular A 
total of 20,400' patients were treated at the various dispensaries. 

With a view to providing an incentive lo colliery owners to improve the 
existing dispensaries, a scheme of iinancial assistance was sanctioned by Govern- 
ment. The iinancpl assistance under the scheme will consist of an interest free 
loan equal ip the actual cost oi construction of new buildings for improvement 
in exist! ig buildings for dispensaries, including purchase of equipments, subject 
to a maximum of 16 limes the annual grant-m-aid admissible under the rules. 
The loan is re-payable in not more than 32 annual instalments. Upto the 31st 
March 1959, two applications had been received, one for provision of services 
at one colliery and the other in respect of six collieries. The first loan amount- 
ing lo Us, GO, 000/- was sanctioned during the year. 

8. X'ray Facilities. — X’ray plants arc being supplied bv the Fund to colliery 
hospitals for facilitating diagnosis. Five such plants had already been supplied 
to the hospitals at Giridih, Barkui, Nowrozabad, Kothagudium and Margherita. 

9. Ambulance Vans. — The Fund has provided five ambulance vans to the 
Central and Regional Hospitals for transporting patients. They carried 1891 
patients during the year. They were also used for T.B. Treatment under the 
domicillajy Scheme. 

10. Family Counselling. — Family counselling centres were run at the two 
Central Hospitals and four Regional Hospitals in the Jbarla and Raniganj Coal- 
field. Twelve hundred and twenty-five cases were attended to. Sterilization was 
clone in 133 cases. 

Family planning lectures and demonstrations were also given to mothers in 
all the 32 Maternity & Child Wcltare Centies run by the Jharia Mines Board 
of Health The Field Workers of the Women’s Welfare feOion continued wide 
propaganda on the advantages of family planning among the wommi folk. 

11. Leprosy Relief. — The additional ten bed ward at the Tetulmari Leprosy 
Hospital constructed at the cost of the Fund for treatment of colliery leper cases 
staited fuin tioning trom tho 15th August 1958. ' With the provision of these 
additional beds, the Fund was maintaining a total of 46 beds for treatment of 
leper eases for which recurring grant was bring paid by the Fund. 

Anti-Malarta Operations 

Malaria control operations Were continued in the Coalfields of Jharia, Hazari- 
bagh, Raniganj, Fench Valley, Korea, Chanda, Margherita, Talcher, Sambalpur 
and Singareni Collieries. The main programme is spraying of residual insecti- 
cides in the Coalfleds with a view to destroying anopheline mosquitoes which 
carry the disease. Two rounds of spray at a dose of 100 of surface were given 
in all Coalnelds except Margherita where due to its long transmission season 
three rounds were given. Thirty-five teams with 97 stirrup pumps were engaged 
in spraying. About 740 collieries and 500 adjoining villages were sprayed during 
the year protecting a population of about ten lacs. 

Eight thousand four hundred and eighty-seven persons were given blanketting 
treatment. 1055 persons received suppressive treatment and 31 cases were given 
curative treatment. The treatment of curative cases had been based only on 
microscopical positive findings. 

Diagnostic facilities to colliery Medical Officers were continued. Eight 
thousand five hundred and sixty-five blood slides were examined and 108 out 
of them were only found to be positive. 

Enlomoicgial observations on the density of anopheline mosquitoes were 
carried out. It was observed that the density vector species was low in all the 
areas. No infected mosquito was detected on examination. 

In most of the areas, spleen, parasite and Infant parasite examinations were 
completed and In some areas they were still being continued. Out of 28,155 
children examined for spleen, 229 were found to be positive. Spleen survey was 
carried out amongst the children between two to ten years of age. Out of 13,135 
blood slides examined for parasitological examination 25 were found positive. 
Out of 1916 slides from infants examined microscopically for parasite, only 4 
were found to be positive. 



386 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY S3, 1960/MAGHA 8, 1881 [Part II 


Education and Recreation 

1. Miners’ Institute. — For providing educational and recreational facilities to 
colliery workers, their children and other dependents, miners’ institutes, each 
comprising a centre for the welfare' of women and children and Adult Education 
Centre and a Children’s Park are established in the various Coalfields. With 
the completion of three miners’ institute buildings during the year 49 miners’ 
institute buildings had been constructed by the Fund. 

\ 

2. Women’s Welfare Centres.— Up to the end of the previous year 52 centres 
had been established in the various Coalfields. During the year under review 
three more centres started functioning at Chanrh (Mugma Coalfield), Newton 
Chlckli (Pench Valley Coalfield) and Yellandu (Andhra Pradesh Coalfield), 

The centres continued to provide elementary education to workers’ children 
upto Class II standard. The children attending the centres are given bath in 
the morning by the Aya of the centre. They are then dressed with garments 
supplied free by the Organisation. Healthy and interesting games are played at 
all the centres. Milk and tiffin continued to be distributed to the children attend- 
ing the Women’s Welfare Centres in the various coalfields every working day. 
Chura, Gur, Klsmis and UNICEF milk powder were supplied to them Medical 
check-up of children’s health continued at all tho centres. The health of the 
children wa3 checked up quarterly during the year by the Medical Officers of 
the Organisation. The average health of the children was found satisfactory. 

Besides training in handicrafts like sewing, tailoring, embroidery, repair of 
garments, etc, literacy classes are also held for women at all the centres. A 
total of 704 women attended the literacy and craft classes upto 31st March "1951) 
In all the centres (excepting those in Andhra Pradesh). The total number of 
women declared literate upto that date was 407. All the centres have been 
provided with a Sewing Machine each and other materials for handicraft work. 

The Field Worker went to Dhowrahs daily and spent three hours. The gave 
talks on various subjects such as education, cottage industries, kitchen, garden- 
ing, poultry keeping, civic duties, savings of money, evil effects of drinking, etc. 
so as to assist in the general welfare of the miners’ families and raise their 
standard of living. They also assisted the women in various matters such as 
admission to hospitals, etc. 

For providing recreation to women attending the centres, radios <T gramo- 
phones with records have been provided in almost all the centres. Magazines 
are also supplied. During the year 14 new radios were purchased and distri- 
buted to the Women’s Welfare Centres. 

Ambar Charkha Scheme was started from 6th December 1958. One of the 
members of the Field staff of the Section trained at Ranchi conducted the Ambar 
Charkha training classes of the Field Workers and Centre-iu-charges under 
training. 

Family Planning propaganda work was done in all the local areas (Dhowrah) 
of the Women's Welfare Centres by the field staff, Six hundred and sixteen 
kamins were advised regarding benefits of family planning during the year. 

During the year 60 Raju Chullahs (Smokeless Chullah) were constructed in 
the dhowrahs of Bokaro. 

One of the Field Workers was sent for welfare personnel training at BJiulr 
during the year and she completed the training successfully. 

3. Adult Education Centres. — Up to the end of 1957-58, fifty-three Adult 
Education Centres had been established. During 1958-59 three more centres 
starred functioning at Chanch, Newton Chickli and Yellandu. Eight hundred" 
and twenty-six adults were made literate during the year. The total number of 
adults made literate up to 31st March 1959 was 6313. 

The post-literacy programme continued to be looked after. A small library 
containing about 400 books was being maintained at each centre. They were 
being used by a fairly large number of persons. Study tours and excursions 
were arranged to Maithon Dam, Kumardubi Brick and Silica Works Topchanchi 
'Lake, the Zohilla River, the Sindri Fertilizer Factory, the Central Hospital 
Dhanbad, the Jealgora Creche, the Chittaranjan Locomotive Works, the Dhan- 
purl Regional Hospital, the Dlgwadlh Mines and Fuel Research institute, the 
Bokaro Thermal Power Station, Mehijam Hills, Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, and 
pther places of interest. Cultural activities arranged at the centres Included 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 


387 


musical concerts, physical and jogic feats, Bhajan and Kirtan, staging of dramas, 
Birha Programmes, folk dances and Kawali, Foot Ball, Volley Ball, table tennis, 
and carrom board were dally features at some of the centres. Republic Day, 
Independence Day, Gandhiji’s Birth Day, Rabindra Jayanti, Babu Kuwar Singh’s 
Day, Tulsi Jayanti, Krishna Jayqntl and Saraswati Puja were celebrated at some 
of the centres, Miners Welfare Week, Health Week. etc. were also organised 
at the centres. The 16 mm. Film Projector In the Jharia Coalfield was used 
for exhibition of shows at the centres in the Jharia Coalfield. 

Other Educational and Recreational activities 

1. Primary Schools. — Monthly grants-in-aid ware continued to three schools 
in Talchur, four schools In Andhra Pradesh and ono school each hi Korea, Assam 
and Darjeeling coalfields. The Advisory Committee decided at its meeting held 
in Mraeh, 1959 that the assistance to schools be continued upto 31st March 1960. 
A non-recurring grant of Rs. 500/- was sanctioned for payment to the Kharkharea 
Colliery School for purchase of furniture and equipment. 

2. Training of Welfare Personnel. — The schemes for the training bf welfare 
personnel was implemented during the year at the Bhull Township. The scheme 
envisages training of personnel for organising multifarious welfare activities for 
labour ot -coal and other industries. The centre was opened on tho 2nd August, 
1958. The first course of training was completed on 31st January 1959, Fifty- 
one students sat for the examination. Nine of them passed in first division, 24 
m second division and 10 in third division. The second course of training 
commenced from 1st March 1959 with 47 trainees. 

3. Feeder Adult Education Centre.— With a view to expanding adult education 
activities, a scheme of feeder adult education centre was introduced during the 
year. Under the scheme 35 Feeder Centres were to be opened in accommodation 
made available by colliery owners, in the midst of workers’ colonies. All the 
35 centres were opened during the year — 12 in Jharia, 8 in Raniganj, 2 each In 
Giridih, Mugma, Ramgarh-Karanpura and Penrh Valley, one each in Assam, 
Vindhya Pradesh and Korea and 4 in Andhra Pradesh. As there was a growing 
demand for such centres which were, very popular, a proposal fbr opening 100 
additional centres was approved by the Advisory Committee. 

4. Grant of scholarship. — The scheme of grant of scholarships to sons and 

daughters of colliery employees at Rs, 20/- pm. each for higher general educa- 
tion and at Rs. 30/- per month each for technical education was Continued 
during the year. A proposal for increasing scholarships for general education 
from 50 to 75 was approvod. Sanction of the Government was also accorded to 
the grant ol 50 stipends to sons and daughters of colliery employees undergoing 

training at the Industrial Training Institute at Bhuli and other similar institu- 

tions opened under the D.G.R & E, scheme at the rate of Rs. 20/- p.m. 

5. Facilities for training in leadership and discipline. — Tho question of provid- 

ing facilities for training in discipline to children of coal miners was engaging 
the attention of the Organisation. The Union Ministry of Education who were 
introducing their National Discipline Scheme in various educational institutions 
were requested to introduce the scheme in some of the educational institutions 
hi the coalfield areas. They agreed to the suggestion. The scheme was introduced 
in three of the institutions in West Bengal Coalfields recommended by this 

Organisation in consultation with the State Education Department, The scheme 

would be introduced in some more institutions in West Bengal and would also 
he Extended to other States. 

6. Games and sports. — A total sum of Rs 43,000 was sanctioned for organising 
games and sports for colliery workers in different Coalfields during the year. 

7. Health week. — Health weeks/fort-nights were observed in Jharia, Raniganj 
and Hazanbagh Coalfields for which a sum of Rs. 11,500 was sanctioned 

The celebrations included:— 

(a) General sanitation including cleaning of surroundings, repairing 

drains, disinfection of wells, etc. 

(b) Health exhibition comprising of baby-show health talks by experts on 

hygiene and sanitation, educative films, distribution of pamphlets on 
care of babies and prevention of spread of infectious diseases. 



THE GAZETTE Ol- INDL4 : JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part II 


388 


(c) Distribution of prizes to babies adjudged to be the healthiest in their 
respective age groups. 

8. Miners’ Welfare week. — The miners’ welfare week was observed during 
January 1959 in all the Fund’s institutions in various coalfields with gieat success 
and the total amount sanctioned for expenditure for this purpose was Rs. 9,000. 

9. Exhibition of films. — The Mobile Cinema units in Jharia, Raniganj, Karan- 
pura-Ramsarh and Pench Valley Coalllelds gave a total of 620 shows during the 
year 

Enforcement or Statutory Provisions 

1. Coal Mines Pithead Bath. — The Coal Mines Pithead Bath Rules. 1946 
continued to be -administered by the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Organisation. 
The total number of collieries where Pithead Baths had been completed was 202 
and that of colieries where they were under construction was 72. 

2. Creche In coal mines. — The administration of the Mines Creche Rules, 1946 
continued to be the responsibility of the Organisation. Creches had been com- 
pleted la 379 collieries and they were under construction in 56 collieries. Supply 
of diet to children at the Creches was made compulsory. Attendance of children 
as also the popularity of the Creches increased thereby. 

3. Prosecution. — -For contravention of the Coal Mines Pithead Bath Rules and 
Mines Creche Rules, 127 prosecutions were launched during Ibe year. 

4. Maternity Benefit.- -The Mines Maternity Benefit Act and the Rule 0 made 
thereunder are also administered by the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Organisation. 
During the year Mines Maternity Benefit amounting to Rs. 1,08,475 was paid 
by the employers to 2555 women workers. 

5. Workmen's Compensation. — Members of the Inspectorate of the Organisa- 
tion have been following up cases of accidents in coal mines which involve pay- 
ment of workmen's compensation. Out of a total of 1720 cases reported, SOB 
were followed up during the year — 816 were admitted and 82 were not admitted 
Payment was made in 395 cuses. 

Other Amenities 

1 A monthly allowance of Rs, 10 for a period of 2 years ’s given from t'>e 
Fund to widow of a colliery worker meeting death as a result of an accident 
at the 'olllery and a scholarship of Rs. 5 p.m. for a period of three years to 
each of his children attending school. 

2. Co-operative movement tn coalfields. — The drive Initiated by the Organisa- 
tion to spread co-operative movement in the Coalfields and ihus ameliorate the 
social and economic condition of coal miners and free them from the clutches 
of usurious money-lenders was being continued. As a result of the drive many 
new Co-operatives were formed with the active co-operation of the State Co- 
operative authorities concerned. In order to pla'v the Societies on aoiod footing 
and to ensure their smooth functioning the Organisation was making every 
effort for securing the maximum co-operation of the colliery management, 
the State Co-operative authorities and others. A scheme for payment of non- 
recurring grant of Rs. 67/- from the Fund to each newly organised Co-operative 
Society towards the preliminary cost of establishment was introduced towards the 
end of the year. Up to the 31st March 1959, eight Societies were paid the grant. 

3. Centre for Imparting training in tailoring to dependents of the victims of 
the Chlnakuri Accident. — A centre tor imparting training in tailoring to the 
widows and other female dependents of the victims of the Chlnakuri accident 
was started at the Fund’s Multi-purpose Institute at Chinakuri from February, 
1959. The training classes were being financed from out of the donations received 
from various sources. Fifteen female dependents offered to. undergo the training 
and they were admitted. A Sewing Machine was provided to each. Each of the 
trainees was being paid a stipend at the rate of Rs. 30/- per month during the 
training period. The trainees would be allowed to have the machine after com- 
pletion of the training in order to enable them to earn a living. 

4. Excursion-cum-Study Tour for coal miners. — With a view to providing an 
opportunity to the coal miners to visit important places in the country, arrange- 
ments were made for a special train with 500 miners, to visit Lucknow. Tlori- 
dwar, Bhakra Nangal, New Delhi, Mathura, Agra, Varanasi, Tata nagar and Puri. 

[No. M-II-15(22)/59.] 
A. P. VEERA RAGHAVAN, Under Secy. 



389 


Sec, 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA - JANUARY 23, 19G0/MAGHA S, 1881 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 14 th January 1960 

S.O. 247. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Bombay Port Trust, 
Bombay and their workmen regarding the matters specilied in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Bomb&y, constituted under section .7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

(1) Whether the channel of promotion to certificated posts of Dock Crew of 

the Dock Flotilla 'and the Harbour Flotilla of the Port Department 
of the Bombay Port Trust, should continue to be unified or be 
separated? 

(2) Whether the promotions and transfers of Dock Crews made from the 

Harbour Flotilla to the Dock Flotilla and vice versa after 31st August, 
1959, should be cancelled or not? 

[No. 28(3) /60-LR IV,] 

New Delhi, the 18 th January 1960 

S.O. 248. — Whereas an industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Nowrozabad Colliery of Messrs Associated Cement Company Limited and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed 
was referred for adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal constituted with 'Shri 
F. Jeejeebhoy as the Presiding Officer, with headquarters at Bombay, by the 
Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment 
No. S.O 639, dated the 14th March, 1959; 

And whereas a large number of proceedings are pending adjudication before 
the said Tribunal and whereas the Central Government considers it desirable 
that the said dispute should be adjudicated expeditiously; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
section 33B of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby withdraws the proceeding in relation to the said dispute pending 
before the said Tribunal and transfers the same to the Additional Industrial 
Tribunal, Bombay, constituted by notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S.O. 172 dated the 16th January, I960, 
of which Shri Salim M. Merchant Is £he Presiding Officer, for the disposal of the 
proceeding. 


Schedule 

(I) Whether the mutual agreement dated the 25th July 1957 between the 
management of the Nowrozabad Colliery and their workmen repre- 
sented by the Nowrozabad Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, Post Office 
Nowrozabad should be treated as legally valid agreement and 
whether it is still binding on the parties? 

(II) What should be the standard of loading of a tub — whether up to the 
"water level” at the coal face or upto the "water level” on the 
surface? 

Oil) Whether a loaded tub should be measured at the coal face and not on 
the surface. If so, whether the deductions made from the earnings 
of the miners as a result of shortage found on the surface bp refunded 
to the miners, and if so, from what date? 

(IV) Whether the drilling of shot holes, stemming of shot holes, water bail- 
ing, shot-firing, dragging of cables etc. from part of the normal 
duties of a miner. If not, what relief the miners are entitled to for 
having done these jobs and from what date? 



390 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2S, 1960/MAGHA S, 1881 [Pakt II 


(V) Whether the miners should be paid extra wages for the manufacture 
of earthen pallets and if so, at what rate and from what date? 

IVI) Whether the monthly paid staff are entitled to any acting allowance 
while employed in jobs of higher categories and responsibilities. If 
so, at what rate? 

(VII) Are the workers entitled to wages for the period from 30th July, 1958 
to 12th August, 1958, and if so, to what extent? 

(VIII) Whether there were incremental scales of pay for monthly rated work- 1 
men before the publication of the award of the All India Industrial 
Tribunal (Colliery Disputes) and if so, whether the workmen have 
been adversely affected by the introduction of new scales of pay 
with effect from 1st January 1957. If they have been adversely 
affected, to what relief they are entitled? 

(IX) Whether the retirement of Sarvashri Jahangir Khan, Charka, All 
Mohammad, Ram Prasad and Ramadhin was justified and whether 
they are entitled to any relief? 

[No. 4/42/59-I-LRII.] 

S.O. 249. — Whereas an Industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Kotma Colliery of the Associated Cement Company Limited and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed was 
referred for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal constituted with Shri P. Jee- 
jeebhoy as the Presiding Officer, with headquarters at Bombay, by the Order of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S.O. 
640, dated the 14th March, 1959; 

And whereas a large number of proceedings are pending adjudication before 
the said Tribunal and whereas the Central Government considers it desirable 
that the said dispute should be adjudicated expeditiously; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
section 33B of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947,), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby withdraws the proceeding in relation to the Baid dispute pending 
before the said Tribunal and transfers the same to the Additional Industrial 
Tribunal, Bombay, constituted by the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S.O. 172 dated the 16th January 
1960 of which Shri Salim M. Merchant is the Presiding Officer, for the disposal 
of the proceeding. ' 


Schedule 

(i) What should be the standard of loading of a tub whether upto the 
"water level” at the coal face or upto the “water level” on the 
surface? ' 

(11) Whether a loaded tub should be measured at the coal face and not on 
the surface. If so, whether the deductions made from the earnings 
of the miners as a result of shortage found on the surface be refunded 
to the miners, and If so, from what date? 

(iil) Whether the drilling of shot holes, stemming of shot holes, water bail- 
' ihg, shot-firing, dragging of cables, etc. form part of the normal 
duties of a miner. If not, to what relief the miners are entitled for 
having done those lobs and from what date? 

(iy) Whether there were Incremental scales of pay for monthly rated work- 
men before the publication of the award of the All-India Industrial 
Tribunal (Colliery Disputes) and if so whether the workmen were 
adversely affected by the Introduction of new scales of pay with 
effect from 1st January 1957, If they were adversely affected to what 
relief they are entitle)}? 

[No. 4/42/59-LRlI.j 

S.O. 250, — Whereas the Central Government is of Opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between Messrs Hill, Son and Dinshaw (Private), Limited, Bombay, 
and their workmen regarding the matters, specified In the Schedule hereto 
annexed; i 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication, 1 I 



391 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY S3, 1960/MAGHA 8, 1881 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947). the 
Central Government hereby, refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Addi- 
tional Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the daily rated time keepers employed by Messrs Hill, Sort and 
Dinshaw (Private) Limited, Bombay, be made permanent and if so, how many? 

[No. 28(46)/59-LRIV.] 

S.O. 251. — -Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to Messrs Tulsidas Khimji, 
Clearing and Forwarding Agents, Bombay and their workmen, regarding the 
matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Addi- 
tional Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Quantum of bonus payable to workmen for the year ended 31st October, 
1958. 


[LR-IV-28(47)/59.] 

S.O. 252. — Whereas the Bombay Port Trust General Workers’ Union has 
raised a doubt relating to the interpretation of the Award of the Industrial Tribu- 
nal at Calcutta, published with S. O. 1115, dated the 9th June, 1958, in the Gazette 
of India, Part II, Section 3 sub-section (ii), dated the 14th June, 1958; 

And whereas in the opinion of the Central Government, a doubt has arisen as 
to the correct interpretation of paragraph 45 of the said Award on the question 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
section 36A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby refers the said question for decision to the Additional Industrial 
Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether boys, cooks and bhandaries employed in the Chief Engineer’s flotilla 
arc entitled to uniforms in accordance with the principles laid down in paragraph 
45 of the award of the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, published with S. O. 1116, 
dated the 9th June, 1958. 


[No. LRIV. 28(36)/59.J 

S.O. 253.-— Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between Messrs Dharsi Moolji and their workmen regarding the 
matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Centra] Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Addi- 
tional Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the demand of the workmen of Messrs Dharsi Moolji for an interim 
relief of Rs. 5 per month is justified and if so, from what date is it payable? 

[No. 28(50) 59-LRIV.] 
A. L, HANDA, Under Secy. 



392 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA S, 1881 [Part n 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 14th January 1960 

S.O. 254. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (c) of sub-section (2) 
of section 6 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (37 of 1952), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby directs that the exhibition of the, film entitled “Dilli Ka Thug” (Hindi) 
in respect of which an ‘A’ Certificate No. 910, dated the 15th September, 1959 was 
granted to New Oriental Pictures, Bombay hy the Central Board of Film Censors, 
be suspended for a period of one month. 

[No. 9/26/58-FC.J 
D. R. KHANNA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi , the 15 th January 1960 

S.O. 255, — In exercise of the powers conferred by thei proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules, namely;— 

THE BROADCASTING STATIONS AND OFFICERS (ALL INDIA RADIO) 
(SENIOR MECHANICS) RECRUITMENT RULES, 1960. 

1. Short title and commencement.— (1) These rules may be called the Broad- 
casting Stations and Officers (All India Radio) (Senior Mechanics) Recruitment 
Rules, 1960. 

(2) They shall come Into force at once. 

2, Recruitment, etc. — The method of recruitment to the posts of Senior 
Mechanic in the Broadcasting Stations and Offices of the All India Radio and 
certain other matters connected therein shall be as specified in the Schedule 
below: — 

, Schedule 


Name No. Class! 5ca- Scale of Whether Method of recruitment In case of recruit- 

of of tion pay, selection whether by direct ment by promo- 

post post post or recruitment or by pro- tion/transfer, 

non-nclec- motion or transfer and grades from which 
tion post, percentage of the promotion to be 
vacancies to be filled made, 

by vatiouB methods. 


I 2 

3 

4 5 6 

7 

Senior 70 
Mecha- 
nic 

Class III 
(non-Gaze- 
tted' 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 (non- 
ministerial) 

too— 5 — Non-sclcc- joo% bv promotion on 
125 — A — tion the , basis of seniority 

155 — EB cwm-fitness. The pro- 

6—185 motions will be made 

on zonal basis. The 
zones would be as 

under :— 

* 

Machanics. 

Northern 

ZONE: 




1. Allahabad 

2. Ajmer /Jaipur 

3. Delhi 

4. External Services Division, New Delhi 

5. High Power Transmitter, Delhi 

6. High Power Transmitter, Khampur 

7. Jammu 

8. Jullundur 

9. Lucknow 

10. Maintenance Deptt. New Delhi 

11. Monitoring Service, Simla. 



Seg. 8 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 8 , 1881 393 


12. New Services Division. New Delhi 

13. Research Department, New Delhi 

14. Srinagar 

15. Simla 

16. Transcription Service, New Delhi 

17. Central Project Circle, New Delhi. 

18. Directorate General, New Delhi. 


WESTERN ZONE; 

1. Ahmcdabad/Baroda 

2. Bombay 

3. Bhopal 

4. Dharwar 

6. High Power Transmitter, Bombay 

6. Indore 

7. Nagpui 

8. Poona 
, 9. Rajkot 

10. Western Project Circle, Bombay. 

SOUTHERN ZONE: 

1 1. Bangalore 

2. High Power Transmitter, Madras 

3. Hyderabad 

4. Kozhikode 

5. Madras 

6. Tiruchlrapalll 

7. Trivandrum 

8. Trichur 

9. Vijayawada 

EASTERN ZONE: 

1. Calcutta 

2. Cuttack 

3. Gauhatl 

4. Patna 

5. Ranchi 

8. Eastern Project Circle, Calcutta, 

[No, ll(6)/59-B(A).] 
C. B. L, MATH UR, Under Secy. 



VISVA-BHARATI UNIVERSITY 

Santinikctan- the 4th January, i960. 

S.O. 256. — Audited Accounts for 1956 — 57. 
Abstract Balance Sheet as at 31st March, 1957 


Liabilities 

Rs. As. 

Ps. 

Rs. As. 

Ps. 

Assets 

Rs, As. 

. Ps. 

Rs. As. 

Ps. 

Block Value (As pei contra) 






Value of Lands Buildings. 






General Office 

61,99,459 

14 

10 



Furniture, Machineries etg 






1st Five Year Plan 

2.01,856 

7 

0 



General Orffice 






Vinava-Bhavana 

5.4^2 

10 

0 



(1) General .... 

63,56,185 

9 

7 



Palli-Samgathana Vibhaga 

9,64,200 

3 

9 

79,14 399 

3 7 

(2) 1st Five Year Plan 

2,01,856 

7 

0 










(3) Vinava-Bhavana 

5,48,882 

10 

0 



Capital Funds 








— — 

— 



General Office 

2,59,1/7 

2 

0 




71,06,924 

10 

7 



Publishing Department 

8,266 

13 

6 

2,67,443 

15 6 

Palli-Samgathana Vibhaga ■ 

■ 9,64.200 

3 

9 







— 



Publishing Department 

1,25.298 

3 

9 

81,96,423 

2 I 

Oth.r Funds 









— 


1 

G 'neral Office 

6.25.756 

7 

5 



Fund Investment 






Publishing Department 

47,520 

1 5 

3 



General Office 

5,02,751 

12 

0 



Palli-Samgathana Vibhaga 

5,175 

14 

6 

6,78,453 

5 2 

Publishing Department 

39,468 

6 

0 

542,230 

2 0 

Government Grants 






Other Assets 






General Office 

2,54,631 

u 

9 



General Office (18,375-8-0 






Palli-Samgathana Vibhaga 

22,660 

0 

3 

2,77,291 

12 0 

plus 15,115-7-6 plus 







— 

— 

, 



9,837-6-9 Plus 6.039 7 0 






Earmarked Donations 






plus 388-8-9 plus 9,705 14 6 ) 

59,462 

4 

6 



General Office 

27,548 

7 

3 



Palli-Samgathana Vibhaga 

10,911 

9 

9 



_ Palli-Samgathana Vibhaga 

1,787 

A 

6 

29,335 

11 9 

Visva-Bhaiati Patrika (3149/- 







— 



— 



plus 26-8-0) .... 

3 d 75 

8 

0 

73,549 

6 3 

Balance ce Sundry Accounts 










- — 



General Office 

7-034 

I 

7 









Palli-Samgathana Vibhaga 

7,297 

I 

6 

i4,33i 

3 1 








Loan Account 


Sundry Debtors 


General Office 
Palli-Samgathana Vibhaga 


1.60000 o o Palli-Samgathana Vibhaga 

t, 1 1,573 i-l o 1 2.71,573 14 o Publishing Department 


12,416 6 3 

25,208 2 9 37,624 9 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23. 19G0/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Past H 



Deposits 

General Office , , . 6,54yl2l I 0 

Palli-Samgathana Vibhaga . 26.679 10 o 

Publishing Department . . 11,888 14 6 

Visva-Bharati Patrika . . 72 13 9 63.062 7 

Advance Suspense 
Palli-Samgathara Vibhaga 

(3)350-13-0 plus 771-6 -6) . 4,122 3 6 

Publishing Department . . 17,500 0 o 

Visva-Bhaiati Patrika 

(490-8-0 plus 2,989-14-0) . 3y}8o 6 0 25,102 9 

Refectory Account . . . 89,094 10 

Sundry Liabilities 

General Office (46.038-0-4 plus 
12,746-9-6 plus 2,026-6-3 
plus 3,768-12-9 plus 29,046-11-4) 93,626 8 2 

Palii-Samgathana Vibhaga 

(5402-2-3 phis 290-12-6) - 5,692 14 9 

Visva-Bharati Patrika . . 1,923 11 o 

Publishing Department . . 45,287 9 11 1,46,530 11 1 

Stock Account 

General Office . . . 100 o o 

Income & Expenditure A/a 
and Profit & Loss A/c. 

General Office . . . 1,13,151 to 0 

Publishing Department . . 7,06,108 110 1 

Visva-Bharati Patrika . . 4,264 14 3 8,23,524 10 1 


Advanct, Suspense, Imprest 
General Office (100614-10-9 

plus 3105 plus 65-8-0) . . 1,03,785 2 9 

Palli-Samgathana Vibhaga 
(9416-10-9 plus 2376-5-0 

plus 185-8-6 plus 72/-) . 12,050 8 3 

Publishing Department 

(6994-10-0 plus 1,35,999/-) L-12,993 10 o 

Visva-Bharati Patrika (15-0-0 

phis I7-I5-3) ■' 32 15 3 2,58,862 4 3 

Refectory Account . . 89,094 10 6 


Stores 

General Office (36,545-5-9 plus 
100-0-0 plus 925-ro-o plus 
9,357) • 46,927 15 9 

Palli-Samgathana Vibhaga . 1,49,705 4 3 

Publishing Department . . 4.45.282 15 6 

Visva Bharati Patrika . . 2,209 2 o 6,44,125 5 6 

Income & Expenditure A /c. 

Profit & loss A/c. 

General Office . . . 20,800 8 11 

Palli-Samgathana Vibhaga 

(Silpa-Sadana) . . . 58,060 4 7 78,860 13 6 

Cash and Bank Balances 

General Office . . . 12.43.828 8 5 

Publishing Department . . 56,038 1 o 

Visva-Bharati Patrika . . 6,607 3 9 13,09,473 13 2 


Total 


1,12,30,244 2 3 Total 


1,12,30,244 2 3 


The Accounts ana the Balance Sheet of the Visva-Bhaiati University for the year 1956-57 have been test-audited under my supervision. Subject to 
the obsei various made in the Audit Report, the Accounts exhibit, in my opinion, a true and correct view of the state of affairs of the University according 
ro the best of in formation and the explanations given to me and as shown in the books ot the University, 

Sd /- N. C. Metr a. Sd/- K. P. Joseph, 

Artha-Sachiva, Deputy Accountant General (O.A.), 

Visva-Bharati University, West Bengal. 



9 (R)] the GAZETTE OE INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1 960 y MAG HA 3, 1881 



Balance Sheet as at $rst March, 19 57 


Liabilities 

Rs. As. Ps. 

Rs. As. Ps. 

Assets 

Rs. As. 

Ps. 

Rs. As. 

1 

Ps. 

Block value as per contra 

63,56,185 9 7 


1. Value of Land at Santiniketan, 






1 




Sriniketan and Vinaya-Bhavana 










(with Garden'' 







Less : Staff Quarter out of Loan . 

1,56,725 10 9 

61,99)459 14 10 

As pet last A/c. 

23.00,401 

O 

0 







Add : Land transferred by Sy R. 







Block Value : 


’ 

N. Tagore (Uttarayana Area) . 

74,3°^ 

10 

0 




Buildings etc. tinder 1st Five 



- 



— - 






Year Plan 


2,01,856 7 0 


23,74.706 

10 

0 




Block Value : 



2. Land at KaJixnpong 






1 

Vinaya-Bhavana Building etc. 


5.48.882 10 0 

As per last A/c. 

963 

Q 

0 

23,75,669 

10 

0 

Capital Fund 



3. Land and Buildings at Calcutta 






1 

As per last A/c. 10,91,086 9 9 



As per last A/c. 

1,49.084 

12 

6 




Less : Block value 



Less : Value depreciated . 

2.236 

A 

3 

1.46,828 

8 

3 

of Palli-Samgathana 



- 

— 






Vibhaga out of 



4. Buildings at Santiniketan 







Capital Fund 



As per last A/c. 

23,19,064 

9 

6 




upto 31-3-56 8,37059 7 9 

2.54,027 2 0 


Less t Value depreciated . 

34,785 

15 

6 




Added during 




22,84.278 

10 

0 




the year being 



Add : Value of leasehold property 







sale proceeds 



As per last A/c. 21,889 1 6 







of Block 

5,150 0 0 

«, 59,177 2 0 

Add : out of 








— — 1 


Revenue A/c. io,553 12 6 










Add : U ttarayan 






| 




Buildings trans- 






■ 




ferred by Sj. R.N. 










Tagore ' . 1.42,586, 9 0 

1, 75,029 

7 

0 

24,59.308 

1 

0 1 

Funds 



5. Kutcha Buildings 






■ 

Sundry Earmarked Funds 



As per last A/c. 

24,636 

6 

0 




As pet last 



Less : Value depreciated . 

2,463 

10 

0 

22,172 

13 

0 

A/c. . 491,571 8 5 



- 

* * — 


— . 




Added during the 



6. Kalimohan Smriti Mandir 







year . 3L°64 4 3 

522,635 12 8 


As per last A/c 




1,809 

6 

6 


& 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23 , I960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Pa*t V 



Compassionate 
Allowance Fund 
As per last Ale . 

Added during 
the year 

Rabinara Bhjiati 
Fund 

As per last A/c. . 

Less : Spent 
during the year 

Fodder Fund 
As per last A/c. . 8,461 11 0 

Less : Spent 

during the yr. 2,573 11 ?. 5,887 15 9 

5,70,006 7 5 

Discretionary Grant 
Fund of 
Vice-Chancellor: 

As per last A c. 5,769 o o 

Added during the 

yr. . . 120 0 o 

5,889 0 o 

Less : Spent 

dunng the yr. 139 o o 5,750 o o 

6,25,756 7 5 


4,032 8 0 

106 li o 4A39 3 0 

37,507 o o 

163 8 0 37,343 S o 


Depreciation Fund 

Stock of Publications 
As per contra 


50,000 o o 


TOO O O 



Sec, 3 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 19S0/MAGHA 3, 1881 



Balance Sheet /is at 31st March, 1957 



Unspent Balance of Govt. Grants 
Govt, of India for Capital Expendi- 
ture 

Under 1st Five Year Plan . 33,580 2 o 

do. For Recurring Expenditure 

Under 1st Five Year Plan . 5,229 4 o 

do. For Swimming Pool . . 1,275 14 3 

do. For InJo-Tibetan Studies 8,221 n 9 

do. For Agio -Economic Reseat ch 5,104 0 o 

do. For Research on Social 
Tension .... 2,706 15 6 

do. For Books on Humanities - 5,464 10 6 

do. For Repairs to Buildings & 

Roads .... 2,274 7 3 

do. For Maintaining Cash Balan- 
ce 40,000 o o 

do. For Study Tours . 1,764 0 o 

do. For Publication of Approved 

Works • • ■ _ ■ 1,600 o o 

do. For Repairs and Renovations 
to Tata Building . . • 27,500 o o 

do. For Hostel Servants quar- 
ters . ' • ■ . • io,575 o o 

do. For Sinking Tube well . 1,00,000 o o 

do. For Master Plan . . 318 o 6 

W.B. Govt. For Hostel for *C' 

Category' Santal Trainees . 8,800 o o 

Orissa Govt. F°t Collection of 

Folk Songs ... 217 10 o 2,54,631 11 9 

Earmarked Donations 

AsperlastAc. . 26,038 3 6 

Chair of English 

as per last A ’c. 7,918 15 0 

Chair of Econo- 
mics 


14. Motor Bus, Car, Lorrie^ etc. 

As per last A/c 16,115 11 o 

Less : Value depredated 1,61 r 9 o 

14,504 2 o 

Add : Car, Lorries, Cycles . 11,015 o o 25,519 2 o 

15. Fencing, Garden, Trees etc. 

As per last A/c. . . . 35,588 8 9 

16. Library Books & Manuscripts 

As per last A/c. . . . 3,26,650 o o 

17. Pearson Memorial 
Hospital-X’Ray Installation 

As per last A, c. . . . 26,482 8 3 

Less : Value depreciated . . 1,324 2 o 25,158 6 3 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 19607 MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part H 



As per last A/c. . 5,763 6 3 

Add : Receipts during the year . 


39,720 8 9 
11,288 o o 


51,008 8 9 

Less : Spent during the year . 23,460 1 6 

Balances of Sundry Accounts : 

Islamic & Urdu 

Studies . 6,784 1 7 

M.I.T. (Under 
Agro-Ecn, 

Research) . 250 o o 

. 7,034 1 7 

Loan Account : — 

Govt, of India. 

As per 1st A/c. . . . 1,70,000 o o 

Less : Repaid during the year 10,000 0 o 


Sundry Deposits 

Income from Earmarked Fund 
Investment: — 

As per last A c. . . . 34,999 n 10 

Add : Interest received during 

the year .... 16,313 15 o 

5 U 3 I 3 10 10 

Less : Spent during the year . 5,275 10 6 


Miscellaneous Bills Payable 


Refectory Account : 

Bills payable . . . . 13 ,880 4 o 

During 1955-56 .... 20,562 5 9 

During this year . 54, 652 o 9 75,214 6 6 


27,548 7 3 


r8. Furniture & Equipments 

As per last A/c. . . 1, 90,945 3 6 

Less : Value depreciated . . 9,547 0 o 

1,81,398 3 6 

Add : Purchased during the year 39,633 13 9 

7,034 1 7 ' 1 

19. Clinical Laboratory, P. M. 

Hospital As per last A c.. . 2,131 9 o 

Less : Value depreciated . 213 2 6 

1,60,000 o o 

20. Opthalmic Laboratory, 

P.M. Hospital As per 

6,54,421 x o last A/c. . • . 614 14 6 

Less : Value depreciated . . 61 7 6 

21. Roads and Culverts 
As per last A,’c. 

22. Swimming Pool 

As per last A/c. . . . 13,488 14 9 


46,038 o 4 Less : Value depreciated . . 539 9 o 


12,746 9 6 

Added during the year 


12,949 5 9 
235 3 o 


2,21,032 1 3 

1,918 6 6 

553 7 0 
33,588 o o 

13,183 8 9 


89,094 10 6 


23. Copyright As per last A h. 

24. Paintings and Images 


1,25,000 o o 
4,050 o o 


Sec. S (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 28, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 



Balance Sheet as al 31 st Match- 1957 


Liabilities 

Rs. As. 

Ps. 

Rs. As. 

Ps. Assets 

Rs. As. 

Ps. 

Rs. As. 

Ps. 

Coal Account 




Santinekfian Press 







Surplus 




25. Machineries 







As per last A/c 

1,814 9 

9 


As per last Ah:. 

32,241 

4 

3 




Add : Surplus during the year 

211 12 

6> 

2.026 6 

3 Less : Value depreciated 

26. Types and Cases 

9 As per last A/c. 

3,224 

2 

0 

29,017 

2 

3 

Bills payable on Coal A/c. 



3,76s 12 

2Tyl64 

6 

6 








Less : Value depreciated 

2,116 

7 

0 




Excess of Stock. 




, 







Capital Stores As per last A/c. 

27,872 1 

10 



19.047 

15 

6 








Added during the year • 

59S 

13 

6 

19,646 

13 

0 

Maintenance Stores As per last A/c. 

PH 

4 a. 

M3 

6 

29,046 11 

4 27. Furniture 











As per list A/c. 

324 

9 

0 








Less : Value depreciated 

19 

8 

0 

305 

I 

0 





28. Electric Installation 











As per last A/c. 

401 

S 

0 








Less : Value depreciated 

80 

5 

0 

321 

3 

0 


Works rNDre ist Five Yeap Plan: 

29. Buildings 

As per lose Al 'c 1,36, 45~ -15 o 
('1,39,135/1419''-) 

2677/15 <9'i 
Added during 

the year 48,677 3 3 1-85,135 2 3 


30. Electric Installation and Plumbing 
As per last A, 'c. 2.677 15 9 

Added during 

the year . 4,427 15 6 7,10? 15 3 


31. Furniture 

As per last A/c. 6,311 5 9 

Added during 

the year . 5-37° 9 9 11,681 15 6 


400 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 33, 19G0/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part II 



32. Masonry Well 
As per last A/c. 


Less : Depreciation on : 
Buildings 3>3°l 4 9 

Electric Installa- 
tion and 

Plumbing 133 14 6 

Furniture 315 8 9 

Masonry Well 34 6 o 

Vinaya-Bhavana Capital Works 

33. Buildings, 

As per last A/c. 

34. Land Development & 
Improvement of Sanitation 
As per last A/c. 

35. Wells & Equipment - 
As per last A/c. 

36. Fencing-As per last A/c. 

37. Electric Installation 
As per last A/c. 

38. Furniture & Equipment- 
As per last A/c. 

39. Library : As per last A/c. 

40. Roads & CulveTts-As per last: 

A/c. ... . 

41. Architects Honorarium, 
Preliminary expenses & super- 
vision charges . 

As per last A/c. . 

Less : Depreciation : 

Buildings . 33,263 2 6 

Water works 4,523 4 3 

Furniture 10,243 15 6 

Elec, Installation 4,326 12 6 
Architect’s Honorarium, 
Pre liminar y expenses 
and supervision 
charge* 7,866 9 9 


1,718 8 0 
2,05,641 9 o 


3,785 2 o 2,01,856 7 o 

5,07,601 15 0 

289 14 o 

11,853 1 9 
730 o o 

19,718 1 6 

46,688 o o 
3,334 5 o 

3,502 5 o 

15,388 12 3 



60,223 12 6 f 5,48,88 2 10 o 


4a 

O 


1 , 8 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2&, 1960/MAGHA S, 1881 


Baiance Sheet as at 31st March, i$5 7 



Fond Investment 

(a) jFunds invested in 
t G. P. Notes etc. 

As per last A/c, 4,33,666 12 0 
Add : Invest- 
ment during 

the year . 8,955 13 o 4. 4 4,622 9 o 

(b) Fund Invested 
in Postal 
National Certi- 
ficate 

As per last A/c. 20,000 o 0 
Add : Invest- 
ment during 

the year . 25,000 o o 45,000 0 o 


(c) Fund Invested in 
Shares of Joint 
Stock Company 

As per last A/c. . . . 9,000 o 0 

(d) Fund invested 
in Postal Savings 
Banks — As per 

last Account 4,032 8 0 
Add : Invest- 
ment during 

the year 106 11 o 4,139 3 o 5,02,761 12 o 


Students’ Fees 
Outstanding 
Less : Irrecove 
rable amount 


21,876 8 o 



3,501 0 o 


1*, 375 * 0 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1%0/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part II 




BlILS OUTSTANDING 
Misc. Bills . 
Santiniketan 
Press Bills (901 5-14-6 
Less Irre- 
coverable 21-5-0) 
Publishing Dept-Sale 
prooeeds'of 
Publications ■ 

Unrealised W. B. 

Grant for Siksha- 
Ghareha from 1952- 
53 to 1955-56 
As per last A/c. 

Add : Amount for 
the year 

Unrealised stipend 
and T. A. to 
Trainees for 
Refresher Course 
from W. B. Govt, • 
Less : Amount realised 

Unrealised Central 
Govt. Grant for 
quarters-out of 
Loan Ac.. 
Unrealised Central 
Govt. Grant for 
NatfrPuia 
Unrealised Central 
Govt. Grant for 
Development Schemes 

Advances : Total amt. 
outstanding . 

Less : Amt. received 
in excess 

Imprests to Depts. 
Suspense (Press) 

As per last A/c. . 


2,681 7 3 

8,994 9 6 

3.439 6 9 

9,006 9 o 

830 13 9 

1,590 o o 
1,590 o o 


1,00,639 15 9 

25 5 of 


I5)U5 7 6 



9.837 69 ij 

Nil | 

I 

6,039 7 o 
388 8 9 

I 

9,705 14 6 

-1,00,614 10 9 
3,105 o o 
65 8 o 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23. 1960/MACHA 3, 1881 



Balance Shut as at 


LiAMUTlBS Rs. As. Ps. Rs. As. 


PALU SaMOATtlMSA Vl»HA QA 

BtockValueupto 31-3-36 . 8,37,059 7 9 

Lej6 : Depreciation during 
the year on Block of P. S. 

Vibhaga . 18,331 io o 

-do- Sflpa- 


Marck . 1957 


Rs, As. Ps. Rs. As. Ps. I 


Stores 


Maintenance Stores 
Capital Stores 

Refectory A/c. 

Fees outstanding 26,253 14 o 
Less : Irrecoverable 
amount . 3,691 9 o 

Deficit : As per 

last A/c. . 7,621 12 9 

Add : During the 

y«r . ^ 45,579 14 9 

Stock of Food 

materials .... 

Stock of Publication 
As per contra 
Stock of Papers-Santi- 
niketan Press .... 
Stock of coal .... 

Income & Expenditure A/c. 

Deficit for the year 1955-56 
as per last A/c. 

Leas : Reed, from the 
Govt, of India 


5,i7i « 6 
3L373 8 3 


22,562 5 o 


53,-201 II 6 


13,330 10 o 


36,545 5 9 


1,20,800 8 11 
1,00,000 o o 


Bldgs. (Office, Staff quarters) Dispensary 
etc. {Palli Samgathana Vibhaga) 

As per last 

A/c. . 3,49,5 °5 10 o 

Less : Depreciation 

& 1 ■ 1/2% 5,243 9 3 3,44,263 o 9 


89,094 10 6 


100 o o 

925 10 0 
9,357 o o 


20,800 8 11 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 25, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Pam U 


Sadana' 


5,175 U 6 


Less : Value of Block sold « 


Added During the yr. from 
Minor Cap. 

Expenditure . 3,417 II o 

Revenue . . . , , 

Expenditure - 1,724 o 


Added on A/c. of 
C.I. Dev. Scheme 
No. Ill . . 39,788 2 o 

Siksha-Satra 

Bldg. 

Schm. No. 4D 


(b)(n) 

Improve 


22,856 13 o 
1,055 4 3 


Improvement 
of Dye House 


Edn. Dev. 

Scheme No. VI 51,845 10 3 
Dev. of Silpasa- 

dana. . . 34,128 1 9 

Siksha-Charcha 

Extn. . . 882 8 3 


Depreciation Reserve (Silpa-Sadana) 
Unspent Govt. Grants 
For C. I. Dev. 

Scheme No. Ill 40,000 o o 

Less : Expdtr. 
transferred to 

Block . , 39,788 2 0 


23,407 8 6 

8,13,651 15 3 
5,150 o 0 

8,08,501 15 3 


5,141 13 o 
8,13,643 12 3 


1,50,556 7 6 


Silopit 

As per last A/c. ■ . 725 7 0 

8,13,651 15 3 

Less : Depre- 
ciation 

8,08,501 15 3 @5% 36 4 0 


Siksha Charchafund 

Bldgs. . 88,818 8 3 

Less : Deprecia- 

on @ 1-1/2%. 1,332 4 3 


Elec. Installation 

As per last A'c. . 1,156 1 0 

Less : Depreciation 
@1-1/2% . 57 13 0 

Masonry Well 

As per last A/c. 2,034 5 0 
Less : Depreda- 
tion @ I - 1/2 % . 30 8 o 

Furniture & Equip- 
ments As per last 

9,64,200 3 9 A/c. . . 8,322 ; 0 

Less : Deprecia- 
tion© 5% . 416 2 o 

5,175 14 6 Silpasadana Bldgs, 
and Shed 

As per last A/c. 84,968 1 6 

Less : Depreciation 
% 2 1/2% . 2,124 3 o 


211 14 o 


Weaving & Power 
House Shed As 
per last A/c. 


689 3 o 344,952 3 9 


87486 4 0 


1,098 4 o 


2,003 13 0 


7,906 3 o 


9S494 8 o 


82,843 14 6 


11,505 11 o 


Sbc. 3 (il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 



Balance Shut as at 31st Alarck, 1957 


Liabilities 




Rs. As. Ps. 

Rs. As. Ps. Assets 

Rs. As. 

Ps. 

Rs. As. 

Ps 

l 

_ j 

For Sikshasatra 






Less ; Depreciation 







Bldgs. Schm. No. 






@ 5% - ■ J 575 4 6 




10,930 

6 

6 ! 

4D (b) (1 1) 

25,100 

0 

0 










Less : Expdtr. trans- 






Pottery Shed As 







ferred to Block . 

22,856 

13 

0 

2,243 3 

0 

perlastA/c. 10,927 12 0 







- 



— 



Less : Depreciation 







For Improvement 






@ 5°'o - • 546 6 ' 




10,381 

6 

0 

of Dye House at 












1 

Silpasadana 

4,500 

0 

0 



Bakery Shed As 







Less : Expdtr. trans- 






per last A/c. 

4,995 

3 

0 




ferred to Block 

1.055 

4 

3 

3,444 11 

9 

Less :Depreciation 










— 


— 

@5% ■ 

249 

12 

0 

4,745 

7 

0 





5,899 12 

9 

Trac+or Shed As 



— 










per last A/c. .... 

1,209 15 

0 



\ 







Less : Depreciation 













•a 5% 

60 

8 

0 

1,149 

7 

0 

ForEdn. Dev. Schm. 






Carpentry Shed As 







No. VI 

58,050 

0 

0 



per last A/c. .... 

28,095 

8 

0 




Less : Expdtr. 






Less : Depreuation.'Si5“o ■ 

M04 

1 2 

0 

26,690 12 

0 

transferred to 









— 




Block 

51,845 

10 

3 

6,204 5 

9 

Pottery Furnace As per last A/c. . 

4,634 

7 

0 







— 



Less : Depreciation @ 5% . 

231 

11 

0 

4,402 

12 

0 

For Dev. of Silpa- 









— 




sadana 

34,600 

0 

0 



Industry Dormitory As per last A ; c. 

6,518 

1 

0 




Less : Expdtr. trans- 






Less : Depreciation @5% 

325 

14 

0 

6,192 

3 

0 

ferred to Block . 

34,128 

1 

9 

471 14 

3 




— 







— 



Coal Storage Shed As per last A/c. 

1,146 

1 

0 




For Social Welfare 






Less : Depreciation @ 5% . 

57 

5 

0 

1,088 

12 

0 

Research 

8,000 

0 

0 






— 




Less : Spent during 






Dyeing Station Shed As per last A'c. 

8,621 

0 

0 




the year . 

3,021 

1 

6 

4,978 14 

6 

Less : Depreciation®: 5°/, . 

43i 

1 

0 

8,189 

15 

0 1 


For Purchase of Equipment of 

Siksha-Satra .... 023 

For Area & Feeder Library . 013 

For Initial Expdtr. of Siksha-Satra . 189 


-G 

o 

a\ 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part II 



For Siksha-Charcha 

Bhavana . . +,155 11 6 

Less ; Expdtr. 
transferred to 
Block . . S 82 8 3 


For Youth Camp, 
as per last A/c. . 

For Adult Edo. as 
per last A/c. . 2,567 12 0 

Less : Spent during 
the yr. , . 1,683 7 6 

W.8. Govt. Grant of Apprenticeship 
Trg 

Loan (Palli Samgathana Vibhaga) 

W.B. Govt. State-aid-Loan . 

Less : Repaid during the year 


Loan from Co-operative Societies 
W. Bengal for Improvement , of 
Dye House at Silpasadana as pec 
last A/c. . 2,500 o 0 

Less : Repaid dur- 
ing yr. . . 2,500 o o 


Loan for Extn. Sc 
Improvement of 
Silpasadana Aa 
perlastA/c. . 1,00,000 o 0 
Less : Repaid dur- 
ing yr. • . 8,426 2 o 

Loan from General 
Fund As per last ' 

A/c. - . 33,504 7 o 

Less : Repaid dur- 
ing yr. . . 33 ; 5°4 7 ° 


3,273 3 3 
20,829 14 9 
940 13 o 

8S4 4 6 

$00 32,660 o 

25,000 o o 

5.000 0 o 

20.000 o o 


20,000 o o 

9L573 14 ° 


1,11,573 14 


Power House Shed as per last A/c. 
Less : Depreciation® 5% . 


333 it o 
16 10 o 


317 1 o 


Electric Installation As per last A'C. 22,771 IX o 

Less : Depreciation® 5% . . 1,138 9 o 21,633 2 0 

Masonry Well as per last A/c. . 11,130 8 o 

Less : Depreciation @ 5% . . 556 8 0 10,574 o o 

Power House Water Tank as per 

last A/c. .... 954 9 o 

Less : Depreciation @ 5° 0 ■ • 47 it o 90614 o 

Tank Excayation as per last A/c. . ; 4,761 2 o 

Less : Depreciation ® 5% . 23S 1 o 4,523 1 o 



Sec. 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 8, IBM 407 



Balance Sheet as at 31st March, 1957 


INABILITIES 


Rs. As. Ps. Ri. As. Ps. Assets 


Rs, As. Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Donations : — 

For Leprosy Clinic 

AsperlastA/c. . 3 ,128 7 6 

Less- Spent dur- 

ingyr. ■ - 1.393 3 o 

For Tiffin to Poor students . 

Balance of Sundry Accounts': 

(PaUi S amgathana Vibhaga) 
Social Conservation Scheme as per 

Excess of Stock CPalli S. Vibhaga) 
A/c. 

Maintenance Stores 
As per last A/c. 

Less-Excess Utilisation during 
the yr. . • 

Advance P.S.V.) 

Suspense (P.S.V.) 

Deposit (P.S.V.) .... 
Sundry Creditors (P.S.V.) 

Income & Expenditure A/c. 
Excess of Income over Expendi- 
ture ..... 
Less-Defidt upto 1954-55 


1,735 4 6 
52 o o 


292 15 9 
233 


1,7*7 4 6 


7,297 1 6 


Machineries : — 

Leather Crafts : 

As per last A/c. 

Less -Depredation 5% 

Book Binding 
As per last A/c. 
Less-Depretiation 5% 


290 12 6 Paper Making 

As per last A/c. 

3,35° 13 o Less-Depreciatkm 5% 

771 6 6 

26,679 10 o Carpentry 
5,402 23 As per last A/c. 


1,27,938 9 1 

14,786 15 I 


1,02,70,778 4 3 


1,13,151 10 


As per last A /a 
Less-Depredation 5% 

Weav'ng 
As per last A/c. 
Less-Depredation 5% 

Pottery 

As per last A/c. 

■ . Less-Depredation 5% 

Bakery 

As per last A/c. [1.355 9 o 

Less-Depredation 

5% ■ ■ • 67 12 o 


2,224 it o 


III 

4 

0 

2,113 7 

0 

234 

5 

0 



II 

11 

0 

222 10 

0 

2478 

12 

0 



123 

15 

0 

2,354 13 

0 

28,576 

13 

0 



1,143 

I 

0 

27433 12 

0 

10,632 

IO 

0 



531 

10 

0 

IOjIOI 0 

0 

; 2,703 

8 

0 

2,568 5 


135 

3 

0 

0 




44,793 15 

0 


1,287 13 o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Past II 



Power Loom 


As per last A.'c. . 
Less-Depreciation 

1,406 4 

0 




t°.' 

J to • 

70 5 

0 

[1,335 15 

0 


Women Handicrafts 






As per last A/c. . 

183 0 

0 




Less-Depreciation 

5;o 1 

9 2 

0 

173 14 

0 


Gas Plant (from Minor Capital 






Revenue Expenses) 

. 

[U5i6 13 

0 


Power House 





As per last A/c. . 
Less-Sold during 

8,909 14 

0 




year 

4,875 0 

0 





4,034 14 

0 




Less-Depreciation 





5% • 

201 12 

0 

[3,833 2 

0 


Tailoring 






As per last A/c, . 
Less-Depreciation 

546 8 

0 




5% • 

27 5 

0 

519 3 

0 





153,460 11 

0 


Dyeing Station 





As per last A/c. . 
Less-Depreciation 

516 8 

0 




r 0 ' 

J /o • 

25 13 

0 

490 11 

0 

[53,951 6 0 

Audio-Visual Equip- 






ment 






Asper last A/c. . 

, 


[14,748 3 

0 


Less-Depreciation 5% 

* 

737 6 

0 

[14,010 13 0 

Motor Bus 






As per last A/c. 

» 

, 

"2,831 11 

0 


Less-Depreciation 5% 


141 9 

0 

2,690 2 0 


o 

'O 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 



Balance Sheet as at 



March, 1957 


Assets 


Rs. As. Ps. Rs. As, Ps. 


Furniture, Equipment & Accessories 
As per last A/c. ... 1 40,707 14 o 

Transferred from Typewriter head 
As per last A/c. . - . 5S2 4 o 

Transferred from Furniture Trng. 

Sec. As. per last A'c. . • ■ 417 15 6 

Transferred from Tools & Implements 
Trg. Sec. As per last Ale, . . 417 15 6 

42,126 1 0 

Less- Sale of Typewriter during the 
year .... 275 0 o 

41,851 1 o 

LesS-Depreciation 5% . . 2,092 9 o 

Added during the year (from Minor 

Capital'! 1,900 14 o 

Added during the year (from Rev. 

C. I. Trg) .... 1,724 2 o 43,383 8 o 

Laboratory As per last A/c. . 589 7 o 

Less-Depreciation 5 % . . 29 7 o 560 O o 

Library & Museum — As per last 595 4 o 

A/e. Less-Depreciation 5 % . 29 12 o 565 8 o 

Lapd Development — As per last A/c. I ,537 3 3 

Dairy Poultry Dev. — As per last 

A/c 3,927 i° o 

Less-Depreciation 5 % . . 196 6 0 3,731 4 0 


Farm Development As per last A/c. 

Improvement of Dye House at Srlpa-Sadana : — 
Dying Equipment and Masonry Work 
As per last A/c. 


295 o o 



322 8 3 


THE G AZE TTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3. 1881 [Pakt II 



Added during th« Year . 


243 11 o 


Salary of Exptri 
As pei last A/c. 

Contingency including Factory 
incidenial exp. during the year 

Cottage Imduste*' Dev. Scheme No. II. : — 
Work Shed 


573 3 3 
236 o o 
246 I o 


1-055 4 3 


As per last A'c. 

Less -Deprecia- 

8,337 9 

3 



tion ij% 

125 I 

0 

8,212 

8 3 

Tools and Impie- 





ments 





As per last A/c. 
Less-Dcprecia- 
tion 5% 

6,487 1 

9 



324 5 

9 

6,162 

12 0 

Looms and accessories 





As per last A/c. 
Less-Depreciation 

{O' 

5 , □ 

4,408 11 

3 



226 6 

9 

4,l8S 

4 6 

Machineries 





As per last A/c. 
Less-Depreciation 

5,o • > 

8,845 7 

6 



442 4 

6 

8,403 

3 0 

Water Pipe Line 





, As per last A/c. 
Less-Depreciation 

1,670 13 

0 



r ^ □/ 

0 /o 

S3 8 

O ' 

L587 

5 0 

Deep Well Pump 
; As per last A/c. 

1.350 13 

0 



Less Depreciation 
& 5% 

55 10 

0 

1-33? 

3 0 

Over Head Tank 





As per last A/c. 
Less-Depreciation 
< o' 

5 ,0 

M59 7 

0 



46 6 

0 

1,113 

1 0 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 



Balance Sheet as at 



March, 1957 


Assets Rs. As. .Pa. Rs. As. Ps. 


Electrification 

As pei last A/c. , 847 5 6 

Less -D epreaation 

5% • • 42 5 6 805 o o 31,807 4 9 

Siksha-Satra Multilateral 
Secondary School Fur- 
niture & Equipment 

As per last A/c. . 19,000 o 0 

Less Depredation 5% 950 o o 18050 o 0 18,050 o o 

Development of Silpasadana : 

Timber and Textile go- 
down shed and Timber 
sbed godown 

As per last A/c. 16,40614 3 
Added during the year 422 7 o 16,829 % 3 

Land Rover Jeep — — • — 

As per last A/c. . 17,298 12 6 34,128 1 9 

Education Dev. Scheme No. VI 
Hostel, Furniture etc. 

As per last AJc. . 17,743 2 6 

Added during the year 6416 6 024,159 8 6 

Jeep Car 

As per last A/c . 15,729 3 6 

Acquisition of land for extens. of sites 

As per last A/c. . 5, 103 2 6 

Audio-Visual Equipment with Generator 

set 

As per last A/c . 3,604 5 9 

Addl. Book Equipment. library 
Furniture fcr Head Quarter 

As per last A/c. . 3,999 6 o 

Agricultural Pump 
As per last A/c 


1,250 o o 


51,845 10 3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23. 1060/MAGHA 3, 1881 (Tart II 



Scheme No. 4D{S)(ii) 

Siksha-Satra Buildings 
As per last A/c 

Siksha Satra- Initial Expenses : 
Machinery 

As per last A/c. 435 3 0 

Less- Deprecia- 
tion 5% 21 12 o 

Stage Equipment 
Furniture 

As per last A/c. 513 6 o 

Less-Deprecia- 

tion 5% 25 10 o 

Siksha-Satra Equip- 
ment out of Grant 
As per last A/c. 

Less Deprecia- 
tion 5% 

C. I. Dev. Scheme No. Ill 
Weaving Centre at 
Sural Workshop 

As per last A/c. 5,539 9 ° 

Tools and Implements 

As per last A/c. 2,32s 11 o 
Furniture 

As per last A/c, 657 13 0 

Weaving Centre at 
Karidhya 

Tools & Implements 

As per last A 'c. 1,749 5 o 

Furniture 

As per last Ac. 663 2 o 

Workshop at Bhu- 
bandanga for 
Women Workers 
Workshop 

As per last A/c. 


5,492 2 o 



Balance Sheet as at 



1957 


Assets Rs. As. Ps. Rs. As. Ps. 


Furniture 

As per last A c. 509 o o 6.001 2 o 

1 6,939 10 o 

Smithy & Carpentry 
at Laldaha Work- 
shop | 

As per last A c - 4,672 0 o 

Tools & Implements 

As per last A/c. 1,010 2 6 

Tools & Implements | 

for Smithy , 

As per last A c. 523 9 0 

Furniture 

As per last Ac. 460 o o 6,665 it 6 

Carpentry at Adityapur > 

Tools & Implements 

As per last A/c. . 1,000 1 6 

CaTpentty at Goal para 
Tools & Implements 

As per last A c. 1,000 1 6 

Weaving Centre at 
Illam bazar 
Workshop 

As per last A c. 3,690 9 o 

Added daring the 

year 16 2 0 3, 706 11 o 

29,312 3 6 

Furniture & Acces- 
sories 

As per last A, c. 1.370 3 0 

Added during the 1 

year . . 48 12 0 1,418 15 0 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [fAHT H 



Weaving Centre at 
Bogdcrwra Work- 

shed 

As per last A/c. 3,741 4 o 

Added during the 
year . . 109 8 o 

Furniture & A ces- 3,85012 o 
so ries 

As per last A/c. 866 1 o 


Organisation of Village Centres 
As per last A/c. 

Supervision of Construction ef 
Workshop 

A* per last A/c. . 

Setting of Looms 
As per last A/c. . 

Travelling 

As per last A/c. 
Contingency .... 

As per last A/c. 

Library Service Scheme 
Area Library-Equipment 

As per last A/c. 1,197 o o 

Less Depreciation 
5% 59 13 6 

-do- Furniture 

As per last A/c. 1,890 3 6 
Less Depreciation 
5% 94 8 o 

Feeder Library 
Furniture 

As per last A/c. 2,004 11 6 
Less Depreciation 
5 % 100 3 6 

Unrealised Grants 

from W.B.Govt. 

Library Service Scheme 
As per last A/c. 


4,716 13 o 
35,447 15 6 
775 ° 0 

1,075 o 0 
968 3 6 

i,o 95 15 0 

426 o o 

1,137 2 6 

1,795 11 6 

1,904 8 o 


39,78* 2 e 


4,837 6 0 


l 

{ 



1^583 9 9 


-t* 

t-4 


Sac, $ (li)] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: JANUARY 29, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 



BaJeaut Sheet ns at 31st March, 1957 


LUIIUTOI 


Rs. At. Ft. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Assets 


Siksha-Satra Maintenance 
Grant (56-57) 

Audio-Visual Maintenance 
Grant (56-57) 

Visva-Bharati Society 
As per last A/c. 

Advance .... 

Imprest to Departments 
Suspense .... 

Sundry Debtors : TotalAmount 
due ..... 
Les: Balance at credit 

Stocks 
Live Stock 

Stock of Stores (General) 

Stock of Stores (C. I. Dev& 
Eitn) . 

Maintenance Stores (Upkeep) 

Silpa-Sadana 
Loss as per last A/c 
Less-profit for the year 

Bank Balances 

State Barik of India, Bolptrr Branch 
State Bank of India, Calcutta H/O. 
State Bank of India, ShambazarBranch 
State Bank of India, A/c. No. 2, 
Calcutta, H/O. 

United Bank of India Ltd., 
Bolpur Branch 

United Bank of India, Dharma- 
tollah Branch 

United Bank of India, P. S. V. 

A/c. Bolpur Branch 


Rs. As. Ps. 


4,82s O o 
4,500 o o 


12,752 9 9 
336 . 3 6 


16,157 o o 
16,323 14 3 


65 ,026 10 1 
6,966 5 6 


96,893 8 4 
9,87,438 11 2 
2,181 9 9 

*,35,999 O o 

21,282 12 o 

2,326 13 11 


Rs. As. Ps. 


10,911 9 9 


9,416 10 9 
2,376 5 0 
185 8 6 

72 o o 


12,416 6 3 


1,16,763 7 ° 

460 15 o 1,49,705 4 3 


58,060 4 7 


Total 


1,03^3,929 14 3 


706 1 3 12,46,828 8 5 
Total . 1,03,83,929 14 3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, ,1960/MAGHA S, 1881 {Pakt II 




Publishing Department 

Balance Sheet as at 3 tst March, 1957 


Liabilities 


Assets 



Rs. A, 

P. 

Rs. A. P. 


Rs. A. 

P. 

Rs. A 

. P. 

Advance from GeneralOffice(i95C) 

- 



Copyright 







As per last A/c. 

20 5 000 O 

0 


As per last A/c. 

23,190 

0 

0 




Less-Paid during the year 

2,500 O 

0 

17,500 0 

Added during the period 

3,110 

0 

0 

26,300 

0 

0 

Capital (Building^ Fund 




Building at Santiniretan 







Bv revaluation of Building at 




As per last A/c. . 

9,083 

2 

6 




Santiniketan on 31-5-51 



8,266 13 6 

Cost Price .... 











By revaluation 

8,266 

13 

6 

17,350 

0 

0 

Liabilities 




Furniture & Equipment 


— 

— 




Establishments: Office charges 











and Sundry Bills 

25>7°9 5 

5 


As per last A/c. 

27,475 

14 

6 




Sale Proceeds and Royalty 

I3>384 1 

-9 


Added during the period 

4,118 

15 

6 

3G594 14 

0 

Sales Tax ... 

4,879 14 

O 









— 




Blocks 








43,973 5 

2 













As per last A/c. 

27,711 

II 

6 




Last year’s Carry Over 

1,314 4 

9 

45,287 9 11 

Added during the period 

1,489 

8 

3 

29,201 

3 

9 

Deposit 




Motor Vehicles 







Sundries .... 

11,791 13 

6 


As per last A/c. 

15,151 

15 

0 

15,151 

15 

0 

Sale proceeds of Mahatma 




— 







Gandhi .... 

82 7 

6 


Library Books 







Hindi Deposit 

14 9 

6 

11,888 14 6 

As per last A/c. 

5,459 

9 

3 




— 




Added during the period 

240 

9 

9 

5,700 

3 

0 

Depreciation Funp 




Stock in Trade 







As pet last A/c. 

39,513 12 

3 


Books 

3,99,990 

7 

0 




Add : Depreciation charged 




Paper .... 

39,274 

4 

6 




during the year . 

7,488 11 

O 


Binding Materials 

1,236 

14 

0 




Add : Interest On Investment . 

518 8 

0 

47,520 15 3 

Purchased books & Photos etc. 

4,781 

6 

0 

4,45,282 15 

6 


M 

<1 


Szp. 8 (H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 j MAGHA 3, 1881 



Balance Sheet as at 31 st March , 1957 


■L 

M 

00 


Liabilities 


Assets 


Profit & Loss A/c. 
(Accumulated balance of assets 
over liabilities) 

Rs, A. 

p. 


As per last A/c. 

Add : Appropriation to last 

6,83,169 

6 

9 

year’s account 

4 

0 

0 

-it si — Appropriation to last 

6,83,173 

6 

9 

year’s account 

672 

0 

1 

Add : Amount of Nett Income 

6,82,501 

6 

8 

for the year 

L" 

GO 

UD 

Tp 

13 

5 


7,24,089 

4 

I 

Less — Contr. to General Office . 

17,981 

2 

3 


RSc A. P. 


7,06, 108 1 10 


Depreciation Fund Investment 
United Bank of India, College St. 

(Savings A/c.) 

3 % G.P. Notes (1970-75) Face 
Value Rs. 12,500/- at cost 
4% West Bengal Loan (1967) 

Sundry Deposit, Adv.ance & 
Prepaid Expenses 
Deposit with Calcutta Electric 
Supply Corporation 
Sundry Debtors (Sale of books) 
Interest receivable 
Sundry Advance 
Prepaid exp. (Fire Insurance and 
Advertisement) 

Imprest 

Suspense .... 
Deposit with Artha-Sachiva 


Cash at Bank and in Hand 

State Bank of India, Calcutta 
United Bank of India, College St 
United Bank of India, Bolpur 
Pioneer Bank (in liquidation), 
Bolpur . . . . 

Calcutta Commercial Bank in 
(liquidation) 


Rs. 

A 

R 

Rs. A P. 

13=544 

10 

0 


10,829 

4 

0 


15,094 

8 

0 

39,468 6 0 


ICO 0 

0 


25,208 2 

9 


562 14 

3 


4,057 2 

6 


2,064 II 

0 


117 7 

3 


92 7 

0 

32,202 12 9 

1,35,999 0 

0 

1,35,999 0 0 


19,832 

8 

IO 


25,614 

7 

8 


882 

12 

6 


323 

0 

9 


La 

j-i 

O 

10 

6 


47,163 

8 

3 


8,874 

8 

9 

56,038 1 


Cash /Cheques in hand 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 19C0/MAGHA 5, 1881 [Part If 



Visva-Bhahati Patrika 


Balance Sheet as at 31 si March, 1957 


Liabilities 


Sundry liabilities 

Last year's Cany over - 

Sundry Deposits 

Subscription Lo Advance 

Adt ance from General Section 


PboHT ik Loss A/e. 

As per last A/c. 

Add : Appropriation to last year’s 
profit 


Rs. A. P. 

I;90S 11 o 
1500 


3,315 5 3 


Rs A. P. 

Outstanding Advertisement 
Outstanding Subscription 
1,923 11 o Advance 


Rs. A. P. 


72 13 9 
490 8 o 
2,989 14 o 


Imprest .... 

Stock as on 31-3-1957 

United Bank of India, College St. 
A/c. Patrika 


Rs. A. P. 
3,149 o o 
26 8 o 
15 o o 

17 15 3 
2,209 2 o 


6,607 3 9 
12,024 13 o 


Add : Nett Profit transferred 
from Profit and Loss A/c. 


3,335 5 3 
929 9 o 


4,264 14 3 


9,741 13 o 


8,46,314 4 o 


8,46,314 4 0 


B (il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JA 



Assets 


Members' Fund'Account 
As per last A/c. 1 
Add : Subscription during the 
period . 67,696 10 o 

Add ; Visva-Bharati 

Contribution 68,733- 2 o 

Add : Transfer from 
Profit & 

Loss A/c. 28,519 9 o 


Less withdrawals 

& Refund 2,983 it o 

Less Transferred 

to Deposit 3,930 12 6 

T ransferred to 

Lapse Fund 1,450 to o 

Deposit Account — — 

As per last A/c. 

Added during 
the period 


Less Paid during 

the period 9,442 I 9 

Less Transferred 
to Lapse Fund 885 15 3 


Lapse Fund Account 
As per last A/c. 

Added transfer from 
Members’ Fund 1,450 to 0 

Added transfer 

from Deposit 885 15 3 


PEonDENT Fund 

Balance Sheet as at 31 st March, 1957 
Liabutites 


Rs. A. P. Rs. A. P 

7,35^89 14 o 

1,64,949 5 © 

9,004139 3 o 

8,365 1 6 8,91,674 1 

14,813 6 3 

3,93° 12 6 

18,744 2 9 


Advance to Members 

As per last A/a 

Added during the period 


Less realised during the period 
Investment at Cost 
As per last A/a 
Fixed Deposit with V. 

B. Central Co-operative 
Bank Ltd. . 

3-l/4%Nevr Howrah Bridge 
, Loan (Face Value 
7,5«=) 

3 %GT.Notes (Face 
6 value 2,00,400) 

3J % Ten years 
Treasury Savings 
Dep. Certificate 
(Face Value 504x10) 


10,328 10, 8,416 1 9 


528 5 o 

2,336 9 3 


4% Govt, of W. Bengal Loan 
(Face Value 
3,95,000) 

Added during the period 
4% Govt, of W. 

Bengal Loan 


Rs. A. P. 

r 45,649 6 o 
44,264 o o 
89,913 6 o 

38,744 7 o 


10,978 4 o 
7,556 13 0 
"1,98,819 1 it 


50,000 o o 
2,67,354 2 11 


3,96,756 4 o 


Rs. A. P. 


51,168 15 o 


> 


: JANUARY 29, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part TI 




2,684 14 3 


(Face Value) 







Less refunded to 



1,30,000) 

1,29,617 

3 

0 

5,26,373 

7 

0 

the University 

528 5 0 

2,336 9 3 

— 



— ■ 











7,93,727 

9 

II 

Reserve Fund for 










unrealised amount 



Suspense A/c 







with Pioneer Bank 



As per last Ale. ■ 




1,600 

0 

0 

Ltd. (in liquidation) 



(D 'D on Pioneer Bank of India 







Profit & Loss Account 


2,000 0 O 

tin liquidation) 










Added during the period 

1,158 11 

6 




As per last A/c. 

236 4 2 


— 

— 



— 




Add Profit during 




2,758 

II 

6 




the year 

29,012 5 6 


Less during the period . 

1,158 

II 

6 

1,600 

0 

0 


29,248 9 8 


Bank Balances 







Lett transferred to 



Pioneer Bank Ltd., in liquidation 

321 

9 

6 




Members’ Fund on 



State Bank of India, Boipur 

7,217 

II 

0 




account of Profit 



State Bank of India, Calcutta 

51,119 

15 

9 

58,659 

4 

3 

for 1956-57 

28,519 9 0 

729 0 8 

— 



— 





9 , 05,155 13 2 


9,05,155 13 2 


t 

w 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 



Income & Expenditure Account for the year 1956-57 


Expenditure 


Income 


encral Office 


Rs. A. P. 


Rs. A. P. 


Academic Departments 


Rs. A. P. 


Rs, A. P. 


cademic Departments 
Academic General , 
Vidya-Bhavana 
Checna-B havana 
Hindi-Bhavana 
Sikshfl-Bhavana 
Viwrya-Bhavana 
Kala-Bhavana . 
Sangit-Bhavana 
Patha-Bhavana 
Kindergarten & Nursery 
School 

Siksha-Charcha 

Sree-Sadana 

Publications 

Physical Education . 

Museum 

library 

Central Administration 


52,908 10 9 
1,72,818 14 o 

54,879 10 o 

20,104 2 6 
64,538 15 9 
44,637 13 o 
57,654 9 6 

67,152 2 6 
1,07,123 8 9 

1,440 o o 
39,567 1 6 

11,278 10 3 
33,163 3 3 
n,545 3 9 
17,082 1 o 
48,926 1 6 


Academic General - 

Vidya-Bhavana 

Che ena-Bhavana 

Hindi-Bhavana 

Siksha-B havana 

Vinaya-Bhavana 

Kala-Bhavana 

Sangit-Bhavana 

Patha-Bhavana 

Kindergarten & Nursery Si 

Siksha-Charcha 

Sree Sadana . 

Publications 

Physical Education . 

Museum 

Library 


8,04,820 12 o 


22,396 15 6 
58470 7 6 
357 o o 
5,359 8 o 
24,855 8 o 
13427 5 o 
26,917 12 o 

13,977 12 0 

76,367 8 o 

38,016 8 9 

10,721 11 9 
3,506 13 o 
45 11 o 
1,677 3 o 


2,37,907 9 2 Central Administration 


2,96,097 11 6 


-74,933 14 3 


Works & Estate Maintenance 

Works & Buildings . 
Electricity & Water Supply 
Garden .... 
Watch & Ward 


Works & Estate Maintenance 

1,06,995 13 9 Works & Buildings . . . 27,997 6 3 

95,467 7 6 Electricity & Water Supply . 14,332 12 o 

10475 9 o Garden 1 121 3 0 

n,595 1 0 2,24,533 15 3 Watch & Ward . . . 848 11 o 


43,300 o 3 


Other Minor Departments 
Hospital 
Sanitation 
Guest House 
Santmiketan Press 
Telephone Section . 


Other Minor Departments 
48,119 9 o Hospital 

12,391 8 9 ' Sanitation 

13,650 15 6 Guest House 

40,691 6 o S an tin ik etan Press . 

3,974 1 3 1,18,827 8 6 Telephone Section . 


19,661 1 o 

450 o o 
4448 8 0 
38,242 2 3 


62,601 11 3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1900/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Pakt II 



Value of I.P.O. Written off 
Provision for Depreciation Fund 

Add : This years’ unpaid Liabilities 

Less : Previous years’ unpaid Liabilities 

Opening Stock (Santiniketan Press') 


Loan A/C. 


35 

50,000 


14,36,114 

12 

II 

12,746 

9 

6 

14,48,861 

6 

3 

9,610 

15 

9 

14,39,250 

6 

8 

00 

kA 

0 

II 

6 


Recurring Grants 
Govt, of India . 

Govt, of West Bengal 
Govt, of Orissa 
Govt, of Assam 
Govt, of Uttar Pradesh 


Donations 

Hindusthan Charity Trust 
Miscellaneous Parties 


Receipt from Visva-Bharati Society 

Add : This year’s outstandings : — 
(a) Students Fees 18,37s 8 o 

(Z>) Misc. demands 2,681 7 3 

(e) Sant. Press Bill 8,994 9 6 
{d) Publishing Dept. 

Sale proceeds of 
Publication 3439 6 9 


Less : Previous year’s outstandings : 
(a) Students’ fees 18,058 o 0 
(&) Misc. demands 2,693 9 o 
(c) SanL Press Bill 7,742 12 0 
(tf) Publishig Dept. 

Sale preceeds of 

Publication . 3,586 8 o 


11,14,000 o o 
4 0,000 o o 
7,o§8 o o 

2^)00 0 O 

1,000 o 0 


12,000 O O 

385 o o 


33490 15 6 


32,080 13 o 


W.B. Govt. Grant for Siksha-Charcha unrealised 
Closing Stock of paper (Santiniketan Press) 


Loan A/C. 


11,64,088 0 o 

12,385 o 0 
50,000 o o 


1410 2 6 

830 13 9 
925 10 o 

17,06,572 15 6 


Repayment of Loan and other charges 


10,839 7 o Rent from Staff Quarters con- 

s ructed out of loan . . 4,800 o o 

Grant receivable from University 
Grants Commission being excess 
expenditure . . . 6,039 7 o 


1 

I 

10,839 7 o ! 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA S, 1881 



Income & 


Expenditure 


Rs A. P. Rs. A. 

Pell Samgathan Vlbhaga Sruuketan 

Group “A” — Academic Department 
i. Siksha-Satra 


Establishment . 

P. F. Contribution . 

Fooding charges for students 
Light charges and coat, to 
Health Sec. 

Crafts materials and training 
Agriculture, Poultry & Fishery 
Books, appliances and Science 
materials etc. 

Stationery and Printing 
Games and outing . 
Contingency . 

D earnest allowance . 
Equipments 

2. I^oke-Sikhsa 

Establishment 
Contr. to P.F. 

Books for Centre 
Papersetting and Exam, fee 
Stationery & Printing 
Postage Sc Telegram . 

Travelling 
Contingency 
Dearness allowance . 

Opening Stock 

3. Library 
Establishment 
P. F. cont. 

Books .... 
Newspaper & Magazines 
Binding 


12,204 

13 

3 

899 

4 

0 

2,812 14 

6 

665 

O 

0 

400 

O 

0 

118 

O 

6 

III 

3 

6 

129 

3 

0 

688 

n 

6 

106 

7 

6 

5.039 

0 

0 

21 

8 

0 


4,020 

0 

0 

335 

4 

0 

179 

15 

0 

707 

4 

0 

619 

3 

9 

537 

0 

9 

35 

3 

0 

3 

8 

0 

1,140 

0 

0 

1.750 

0 

0 

1,800 

0 

0 

150 

0 

0 

196 

13 

0 

196 

3 

0 

311 

14 

0 


2 3 j *95 i 


9.J27 6 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part II 



3,469 12 9 


Contingency 
Dearness allowance 
Allowance 


60 s 0 
699 9 9 

55 0 


to 


H 


4. Library Service Scheme 4 - Library Service Scheme 

(Sponsored by W.B. Govt.) 


( Sponsored by W.B . Govt.) 





West Bengal Govt. Grant . 

1.384 

II 

0 

Establishment 

948 

0 

0 






Contingency .... 

40 

II 

0 






Dearness allowance 

360 

- 0 

0 

1,348 11 0 





. Cottage Industry 





5. Cottage Industry 




Training Section 





Training Section 




Establishment 

35.671 

0 

6 


Admission Fee 

163 

8 

0 

Allowance .... 

896 

10 

0 


Fees from Trainees 

2,019 

8' 

0 

P. F. contr. .... 

2,527 

3 

0 


Sale Proceeds 

3.063 

12 

6 

Telephone .... 

270 

0 

0 


Seat Rent and Medical fee 

553 

8 

0 

Stipend .... 

3.942 

0 

3 


Light .... 

207 

8 

0 

Raw materials .... 

2,491 

20 

9 


Miscellaneous .... 

264 

4 

6 

Equipments .... 

2,618 

7 

3 


Conn-, from Satra for Raw 




Books and News paper 

102 

14 

6 


materials .... 

400 

0 

0 

Commissxoti .... 

64 

10 

6 


- Examination fee 

336 

0 

0 

Medical fee and Medicine contr. 

248 

14 

0 


Annual fee for games and Library 

63 

0 

Q 

Light charges .... 

1,168 

11 

6 


W.B. Govt. Grant 

13,200 

0 

0 

Repairs & Replacement . 

203 

4 

0 


Closing Stock 

4*383 

11 

6 

Games & Social activities . 

79 

0 

0 


* 

— 

— 

— 

Fuels & Furnace . 

166 

13 

0 






Travelling . 

477 

8 

6 






Confr. to Upkeep for maintenance 

1,000 

0 

0 






Stationery & Printing 

M3 

14 

6 






Contingency .... 

400 

14 ^ 

3 






do. Allowance 

10,248 

2 

0 






Labour ..... 

571 

12 

0 






Forwarding .... 

1 

1 

0 






Rebate ..... 

246 

3 

0 






Opening Stock 

4,716 

7 

9 

68,246 15 6 






1,384 11 0 


24,654 12 6 


t 


U* 


3 (ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2S, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 



Income & 


EXPENDITURE 

6. Cottage Indusiry Rs. A. P. Rs. A.’ P. 

Workshop Training 


Establishment 
P. F. contribution 
Dearness allowance . 

Raw Materials 
Tools & Implements 
Repairs & Replacement 
Power & Fuel 
Stipend & Labour 
Contingency . 

Stationery & Printing 
T'rav. & Estursion 
Commission . 

Rebate 

Opening Stock 

Group ( B’— General 
Administration and 
Estate Maintenance 
i. General 
Establishment 
P. F. contribution 
Anniversary & Festival 
Guest entertainment 
Contr. to Srk. Club . 

Telephone Rent 
( Trunk calls,) 

Other allowance 
Exhibition. Posters, Charts, etc. 
Electric charges 
Stationery and Printing 
Postage and Telegram 
Travelling . . . . 

Coningency 
D. Allowance 

Folk recreational and other 
activities 


15,907 11 9 

1,242 o o 
4,137 8 o 
1,325 o o 
986 o 3 
216 2 o 
163 8 o 
3,677 7 6 
38 9 9 

420 
96 5 6 

185 3 6 

309 2 6 

9,916 8 o 3S,2o5 4 9 


14,331 1 o 

1^100 13 o 
2,935 14 3 

293 13 9 
300 o o 

410 14 o 
60 o o 
554 8 3 

1,170 5 6 

631 5 3 
345 14 3 
817 I 6 
317 12 6 

4,272 7 9 


1,050 O Q 


28,54 r 15 o 


Account for the year 1956-57. 


Income 

6. Cottage Industry' Rs. A. P. Rs. A. P. 

Workshop Training 

Sale Proceeds . . . 3,673 4 6 

Miscellaneous . . . 167 13 a 

Closing Stock . . . 8,138 13 o n>979 Ti 6 


Group ‘B’ — General 
Administration and 
Estate Maintenance 
1. General 


Sale of Literature 

268 

II 

0 

Telephone Trunk calls 

10 1 

3 

0 

Stall Rent, Donation, Grants etc. 

523 

10 

0 

Electric charges 

4 

0 

0 

Miscellaneous .... 
W.B. Govt, grant from Civil 

11 

0 

0 


Surgeon, Suri . . . 100 o o 


-do-from NES Block, Bolpur-Srk 
-do-from Agri- Officer, Suri (55-56) 1 
-do-from '-do- (56-57) / 


150 o o 
260 o o 


-do - from Director of 

Industries .... 250 o 0 

-do-Grant for folk recreational 
activities .... Ij0 oo o o 


2,668 8 o 


! 


426 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part 1] 



7,826 9 9 

553 5 o 
13 3 


2. General- Adm.- Office 

Ejtablish.ra.cn: 

P. F. contribution 
Dearness alLw-Jice 


3. Works Estate Maintenance 

Establishment 
P. F, contribution 
Maintenance of Estate 
Maintenance of Santi & Srinikctan 
, Road .... 

Other allowance 
Road Repa.rs and General 
Cleaning at Snniketan . 

Sam ration .... 

Watch & Ward 

Repairs ani Replacements 

Contingency .... 

Dearness allowance 

Garden .... 

Minor Capital Expen iiture 


4 . Transport Section 
Establishment 
P. F. contribution 
Dearness allowance 
Fuel and Lubricant 
Licence and Insurance . 
Repairs and Replacement 
Contingency 


3, Power House 
Establishment 
P. F. contribution 
Dearness allowance 
Purchase of Electric Energy 
Materials 

R- pairs nd Replacements 

Contingency 

Opening Stock 


6,502 

0 

9 

436 

10 

0 

6 3 762 

4 

6 

928 

10 

0 

231 

2 

3 

9S2 

2 

0 

hi 

4 

0 

87 

9 

3 

147 

3 

3 

n 9 

7 

6 

4,555 

0 

6 

17 

15 

0 

3UJ7 

II 

0 


2,499 

8 

6 

173 

7 

0 

1,380 

0 

0 

4,384 

0 

0 

1,6 1 1 

4 

0 

1,590 

11 

9 

156 

10 

0 


1,775 

0 

O 

13 1 

15 

0 

96J 

0 

0 

4U3I 

15 

0 

4i5 

13 

0 

137 

6 

6 

29 

13 

0 

1,059 

2 

6 


11,321 12 o 


24.359 0 o 


H.795 9 3 


9.041 1 o 



3. Works & Estate Maintenance 


8 


House Rent .... 5.753 8 o 

Union Board Grant . . 300 o o 

Income from Santalpalli Land . 249 12 o 

Contr. for night watch from 

V.B.C.C. Bank Ltd. . . 100 o o 

Miscellaneous ... 52 8 o 

Contr. from Upkeep of Buildings 

from C. I. Training . . 1,000 o o 7,455 12 o 


4. Transport Section 

Bus. Fare and Fuel . . 7^258 3 o 

Miscellaneous ... 15 o o 7.273 3 o 


5. Power House 

Sale of Electric Energy . . 4.767 .3 9 

Repairs work . . . 717 8 o 

Closing Stock . ... 910 12 6 6,395 8 '3 


3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1900/MAGHA 3, 1881 



Income & Expenditure Account for the year 1956-57 



Expenditure Income 


6. Bakery 

Establishment 
P. F. contribution 
Dearness allowance 


Rs. A. P. 
340 o o 
710 
160 o o 


^Rs. A. p. 6 , Baxery 
Sales 


507 1 o 


Rs. A. P. 
006 


Grouf/C’— Social Work St Vill. : Exth. 
1. Health & Sanitation — General 


Establishment 


5.106 

O 

0 

P. F. contribution 


4i3 

4 

0 

Medicine 


1,918 

8 

3 

Travelling allowance 


10 

2 

0 

Contingency 


157 

8 

9 

Dearness allowance 


14520 

0 

0 

Opening Stock 


938 

I 

9 


Group ‘C — Social Work & Vill. Extn. 

1. Health & Sanitation — General 
Contr. from Vinayabhavaha 
Contr. from Siksha Chardia . 

Contr. from Siksha Satra 
Contr. from C I. Training 
Medical fee ... 

Sale of Medicine . 

10,163 8 9 Closing Stock 


300 o 0 
720 o o 
240 o o 
240 o o 
1,192 o o 
1.817 15 3 
860 8 3 


2 . Agriculture 
(a) Experiments 
Establishment 
P.F. contribution. 

Dearness allowance 
Paddy Verietal Trial ' . 
Paddy Mammal Trial . 
Repairs and Replacements 
Travelling . 

Contingency . 

Other allowance . 


5,040 0 o 
367 8 o 
2,280 o o 
629 12 9 
880 
180 15 - 6 
46 14 o 
149 8 6 
60 o o 


2. Agriculture 
( a) Experiments 
Sale of Paddy . 

W. B. GoyL Grant . 


8,763 2 9 


137 13 
3,000 0 


3 

o 


Rs. a. p. 
006 


5.370 7 6 


3.137 13 3 


(6) Demonstration & Extension 




( b ) Demonstration & Extension 


Garden Crops 

79I.I5 

6 


Garden Crops 

1,973 9 6 

Paddy cultivation 

1,45c 10 

3 


Paddy .... 

3,550 2 0 

Orchard and Nursery 

377 14 

3 


Orchard & Nursery 

430 13 3 

Land Development 

272 7 

6 


Fodder 

1,632 13 6 

Fodder Cultivation 

G624 1 

0 


Fishery .... 

49 5 0 

Fishery .... 

146 13 

0 


— 


Extension work in village 

70 14 

0 

4.734 n 6 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA ?, 1881 [Part II 



(c) Dairy Sc Poultry 
Establishment 
P.F. contribution 
Dearness allowance 
Feeds for Cattle & Birds 
Medicine Sc Treatment cost 
Electric charges 
Repairs & Replacements 
Casual Labour 
Contingency 
Opening Stock : 

Live Stock — Cattle 
Live Stock — Birds 

3. Village Extension 

(a) General 
Establishment 
P.F. contribution 
Dearness allowance 
Aid to Village Societies . 

Conte, to Prosad & Surhid 

Vidyalaya 

Brati Balaka Organisation 
Fooding & Travelling expenses 
for Women visiting Srini- 
ketan villages and other 
places .... 

Contingency 

( b ) Adult Education 
Establishment 

P.F. contribution 
Dearness allowance 
Travelling & Fooding . 
Contingency 

Allowance to Literary Work- 
shop .... 

Allowance to Social Workers . 

(c) Health Extension work 
in Villages 

Medicine for Village Society 
Antimalarial work & 

Others Prophylactic measures 


5=090 

7 

9 

362 

4 

0 

2,560 10 

3 

30,684 

ir 

0 

725 

6 

9 

136 15 

6 

. 382 

5 

6 

4=411 

2 

6 

IjOSS 

0 

3 

12,917 

0 

0 

289 

0 

0 


23,190 

0 

0 

1,908 

6 

0 

6=549 

0 

0 

877 

0 

0 

216 

0 

0 

2,102 

3 

9 


360 

I 

0 

11 

5 

0 

3,648 

0 

0 

275 

4 

0. 

1=440 

0 

0 

438 

14 

6 

2,705 

12 

3 

3,660 

0 

0 

7=340 

0 

0 

305 

2 

6 


(c) DaiRY & Poultry 
Sale of Milk 
Sale of Manure . 

Sale of Eggs & Birds . 
Miscellaneous 
Closing Stock : 

Live Stock — Cattle . 
Live Stock Birds 


58,647 15 6 

3. Village Extension 
( a) General 
Conte, from Prosad 
Night School Fund 


35,213 15 9' 

( b ) Adult Education 
W. B. Gov't. Grant 
Unspent Govt, grant of 
West Bengal 


19.507 H 9 

(c) Health Extension work in 
Villages 

Sale of Medicine . 

Coote.-from Aruna Amita Fond 
Endowment 
Closing Stock 


42,663 14 6 
424 12 o 
477 9 6 
216 2 6 

15,817 o o 
340 o o 


84 13 6 


12^266 8 6 
1,683 7 6 


589 8 6 

322 5 o 
1,015 I 0 


59.939 6 


84 13 


13,950 0 0 


1,926 14 6 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 429 



lucerne & 


Expenditure 


Diet and Medicine for Poor Rs." A. P. Rs A. r -. 

Patient (Arura Amita Fund) 322 5 o 

Travelling . . . - 73 12 o 

Contingency . . - 104 7 3 

Opening Stock . . . 1,569 11 9 2)375 6 6 

1 1 j j Maternity & Child Welfare 

Establishment . . . 1,704 o o 

Drugs 43 13 o 

Travelling .... 217 I 6 

Contingency ... 64 9 6 

Dearness allowance . '. 840 o o 2,869 8 o 


18,22,576 7 2 

'Income over Expenditure . 1,27,938 9 1 


19)50)515 o 3 



( d ) MATStNm r and Child Welfare 

Miscellaneous ... 17 5 0 

W.B. Govt. Grant towards 

Salary of Lady Health Visitor 1,932 o o i,949 5 0 


Recurring 'Grants 

Block grant West Bengal Govt 50,000 0 o 

West Bengal Govt Grant main- 
Lenance of Audio-Visual 

(55-56) . ■ • 4)5«> o o 

54,500 o o 

Grant receivable (56-57) . 4)5°° 0 0 59)°oo o o 


19)50)515 0 3 


430 the GA7ETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23. 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part II 



Abstract Income & 


Expenditure 


Carpentry 

Net Profit carried over to 
Balance Sheet . 


t SAMCATHAN’A ViBHACA, SittNlRETAN 

Account of C.I. Extension and Rehabilitation for the year 1956-57 


Income 

£s. a. p. Rs. A p. 

170 12 o By Income over Expenditure : 

Weaving 7,137 1 6 

6,966 5 6 
i „ j 

7,137 I 6 7,137 1 6 



Sec. 8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23 , 1960 /MAGHA 3 , 1881 



Income & Expenditure Account of C. I. Extension and RehahiUtadoru Snrnkmtn for the year 1956-57 



Expenditure 


Income 


(e) C. L Extension & Rehabilitation 
(i) General 
Establishment 
P.F. Contribution 
Dearness allowance 
Telephone charges 
Stationary and Printing 
Travelling .... 

Advt. Exhibition & Sampling . 
Commission on Books . 

Electric Charges . 

Contingency 
Interest on Loan 
Sales Tax .... 
Forwarding for V. B. Books . 
License and Taxes 
Entertainment 
Opening Stock — 

Purchased Books 63 6 o 

Bricks 258 8 o 

Stores 10 13 o 


Rs. A. 

P. 

Rs. A. P. 




Rs. A. 

P. 

■ 



0) C.I. Extension & Rehabilitation 






(t) General 





82 8 

0 


Sales Tax . 



2,108 7 

6 

- 7 8 

0 


Trunk call credit 



33 4 

0 

30 0 

O 


Store 



10 12 

0 

55 3 

O 


Purchased Books . 



5 0 

0 

194 3 

9 


Commission Earned 



T*4 15 

6 

491 0 

9 


Contr. from Weaving 



4.709 13 

0 

238 11 

6 


Cootr. from Carpentry . 



1,569 14 

0 

86 n 

9 







70 7 

0 


Closing Stock — 





47 2 

9 


Purchased Books 58 

6 

0 



5,000 0 

0 


Bricks . . 258 

8 

0 

316 14 

0 

2,180 11 

6 



— 

— 


— 

9 0 

0 







7 4 

0 







35 14 

0 







332 10 

0 

8,869 0 0 







Rs, A. P. 


8^69 o o 




o 

T 1 


( ti ) Weaving 


(if) Weaving 


Production Cost 
Raw materials 
Labour . . 

Power and fu61 . . 

Equipments 

Repairs and Replacements 
Contingency 

Silling Cost 
Forwarding charges 
Rebate^ 

Commission on'sales 




Sales 

. » 

73,240 

2 6 

52,101 8 

6 

Rebate from W. B. Govt. 

L475 

2 3 - 

27,158 13 

9 

Forwarding . 

* 

75 

15 0 

292 4 

6 

dosing stock : 




138 7 

0 

Finished goods 

59^72 14 6 



27 <8 

6 

Raw materials 

30,070 8 0 

89,14.3 

6 6 

97 12 

0 


- 



956 10 

3 






1,142 2 3 
7,726 8 o 


f 

; 1.63,934 10 3 [ 


,)IA : JANUARY 28, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part II 



'4*709 13 o 
2,623 i 6 


Office Cost 

Proportion of general expenses 
Depreciation 
Opening Stock : — 

Finished- goods 34,564 3 o 

Raw materials 25,253 12 6 59,817 15 6 

1 , 56,797 8 9 

Income over expenditure . 7,137 1 6 k^ 3,934 10 3 


(w) Carpentry 

Production Cost 
Establishment 
P.F. Contribution 
Dearness allowance 
Materials 
Labour 

Power and fuel 
Repairs and Replacements 
Tools and Equipments . 
Contingency 


Selling Cost 


Forwarding charges 



Office Cost 

Proportion of General expenses 

Depreciation 

Opening. .Stock : 

Finished goods 572 4 o 
Raw materials 23,366 4 6 


1,020 o o 
84 12 0 
480 o o 
14,301 11 3 
7,478 13 6 
159 12 o 

61 15 o 
86 o o 
70 5 o 


59 8 o 

4 12 a 
413 9 ° 


,L5& 9 H O 
3,547 13 o 


23,938 8 6 52,277 5 

2^5,080 15 6 


(to) Carpentry 

Sales .... 24,688 4 3 

Miscellaneous ... 18 5 6 

Forwarding .... 96 13 o 

Closing Stock : 

Finished, goods 529 4 o 

Raw materials 26,773 14 6 27,303 2 6 

Expenditure over Income . 170- 12 o 52^77 5 3 



f 


UJ 

u> 


(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY ?S, 1960/MAGHA 8, 1881 



Publishing Department 

Income & Expenditure Account ( M arm fa c m rire Trader f arc Frcf ' & Lea A tree ri; 
for the year lpj6~S7 (including Vtsva-Bharati Patnka) 


U) 

-P- 


Expend iTURfi 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Income 


Rs. As. Ps. 


To Purchased! Books . 

11,758 10 

6 

By Sales ..... 






Agency Publications . 

9,619 12 

0 

Gross Realisation . 

6,83,316 1 

9 




Government Publications . 

‘ 1,251 14 

0 

22,630 4 6 Less : Last Year’s 










outstanding nett (Gross 






To Paper Purchase 

(1,12,984 1 

9 

78,793-1-0) 63,071 11 

9 





Printing charges 

66,154 3 

0 







Binding charges 

38,736 0 

9 







Drawing, lettering . 



Less : Appropriation 






and Photographs 

215 0 

0 

(for return etc.) . .222 6 

9 62,849 5 

0 




Editing and Proof-reading 

3,7*5 1° 

0 

2,20,874 15 6 


— 









6,20,466 12 

9 




To Catn-n>ssion on Sales 

1,19, 4 6 ° 9 

11 

Add : This year's out- 






Commission on Sales (Hindi) 

102 2 

9 

standing (Gross- 







1,19,562 12 

~8 

30,178-7-0) 

25,208 2 

9 




To Royalty on Sales of boosts 

48,734 12 

~6 


6,45,674 15 

6 




Royalty on Sales of book (Hindi) 

27 6 

6 

By Sales Hindi .... 

451 12 

0 

6,46,126 

11 

6 

Royalty on tjale of My Boyhood 





— 




days 

112 0 

0 

Comfiiission on Agency publications 3.286 2 

-6 






, 

Commission on Govt, publications 

417 4 

6 





48,8’ 7 4 3 

0 

Discount on purchased Books 

2,871 15 

6 




To Contribution to Genera! 



Commission on Misc. Royalty 

56 0 

6 




Office Part I towards 



Interest . ... 

63 12 

9 

6,695 

3 

9 

sale of books .... 

47,018 13 

9 










By Sales Tax .... 

12,988 6 

6 




To Freight : Dr. 1,182 8 0 



Sales Tax Hindi 

2 9 

3 

12,990 

15 

9 

Cr. 185 2 3 

997 5 

9 


— 

— 1 




Cartage & Cooly 

309 1 

9 








1,306 7 

“ “ T ■ 1 - ' 

6 

2,16,762 4 n 







THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 1960/MAGHA S, )88l [Part II 



o Pairing Dr. 1,184 1 9 

General 589 4 6 
Hindi 090 
Assam 91 5 o 


681 2 6 


To Advertisement 
Publicity 

Test Book Publicity . 
Catalogue & Price List 


To Sales Tax 
Sales Tax- Assam 
To Salaries 
General 
-do- M.V.M. 


70,436 14 
1,082 o 


To Dearness Allowance 

General 26,483 15 3 

-do-M.V.M. 497 8 o 

To Personal Allowance 

General 20,846 o 7 
-do- M.VJd. . 360 o Q 

To Special allwance 

Temporary appointments 
Appointment in Leave Vacancy 
*. Honorarium, to Adhyaksha 
Contr.jo P.F.-General 
-do- -do- 

To Medical Aid .... 
House Rent .... 
Municipal Tax - . 

Trade & Sign Board License 
Electric charges 

Telephone : Dr. 

Or. 


5>67t2 4 3 
432 IQ o 
1,39° I 6 
1,721 I 0 


71,518 14 5 


26,981 7 3 


To Postage : 
Genera] 
Hindi 


Dr. 

2^28 6 12 9 

7 3 o Cr. 


5,660 5 o 
90 2 8 


' 1,811 II 0 
26 3 o 

4,027 6 o 

2,293 15 9 


502 15 3 


9,216 o 9 

12,599 n o 
54 15 6 


21,206 0 7 1,19,706 6 _ 3 

620 o o 
(Hill 5 6 
2^02 4 6 
3,600 o o 


5,750 7 8 

506 15 o 
3,156 o o 
1,552 5 6 
237 o o 
1,378 I 9 

1,785 8 o 


1,733, 6 3 



ste, 9 (11)] The GAZETTE OF INDIA; JANIIARY 23,,, 1960yMAGHA 3, 1881 



Publishing D h'Astmekt 

Income & Expenditure Account (Manufacturing, Trading and Profit & Loss Account) for they tar 1956-57 (including Visva-Bhorats Patrika) 


Ov 


Expenditure 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Income 


Rs. As. Ps- 


>4 


a- 


To Insurance Fire etc. 

Formes Sc Stationery (including 
Paper, Printing, Binding of Cashmemo* 
and Ledger Books) . 

Contingency & Sundry Expenses 705 7 3 

Revenue Stamp . . . 2450 


Bank Charges .... Dr, 161 1 9 

Cr. 38 14 o 

To Conrr. to Visva-Rharati Sammilani 
Travelling & Conveyance . 

Tram & Bus .... 

Uniforms .... 

Contr. to Office Canteen . 


2,542 6 o 


4*235 11 3 
729 12 3 


122 3 9 
600 o o 
27 0 6 

200 10 9 
483 6 o 
4,316 o o 


23,257 2 6 






To Motor Vehicle Maintenance 
Oil and Lubricant . 

Repairs and Replacanents . 
Motor Insurance 
Motor Tax 


To Repairs to Building 
Upkeep and Maintenance . 

To Library 

Subscription to Journals . 
Binding of library Books & 
Magazines 


1,821 13 

6 




2,r39 8 

0 




416 6 

0 




148 0 

0 

4*525 

It 

6 

207 0 

6 




805 8 

6 

1,012 

9 

0 

54 8 

0 




-95 12 

0 

150 

4 

0 


a 


GAZETTE OF INDIA : JAnUARV 2 S, lfeb/MAjdlftA 3 , 1881 



To Depreciation . 

To Opening Stock 
Books 
Paper 

Binding materials 
Purchased books etc . 


3,75,454 i ° 
36,368 4 3 
.750 2 o 
4,520 4 o 


To net Income carried over to Appropriation a/c. 


To Paper 

Printing .... 
Binding .... 
Blocks .... 
Honorarium to Contributors 
Drawing and Lettering 
Postage .... 
Freight .... 
Cartage and Cooly . 

Tram and Bus fere . . 

E stamps 

id Stationeries 
e 

ion on sales 

Commission on Advertisement 


To Opening Stock 


To Net Profit (transferred to Balance Sheet) 


1 to General Office 
to Balance Sheet . 


00 

T 

II 

O 

4,17^92' 

II 

3 

10,69,508 

I 

I 

41,587 13 

5 

2,772 

II 

0 

3,395 

O 

O 

415 

3 

0 

581 

4 

3 

1,047 

8 

O 

25 

0 

0 

374 14 

6 

IO 

2 

6 

9 

8 

6 

64 

6 

6 

7 

3 

0 

164 

I 

0 

600 

0 

0 

497 

H 

0 

1,461 

12 

9 

1 Mi 5 

9 

Q 

2,010 13 

0 

13,426 

6 

0 

929 

9 

0 

14,355 

15 

0 

11,25,451 

13 

6 

Profit & Loss 

17,981 

2 

3 

23,606 

II 

2 


By Closing Stock 
Books 
Paper 

■Binding materials 
Purchased books 


By Subscription 


3,99,990 7 O 
39,274 4 6 
1,236 14 o 

4,781 6 o 


4,45,282 15 6 

2,616 o o 
534 * o 
J74 o o 
100 
8^21 4 o 

12,146 13 o 


4L587 13 5 


2^09 2 o 
14,355 15 O 
11,25,451 13 6 


41,587 13 5 


41,587 13 5 


I 88 i ‘s vHOVw/oeat *sz lavnKvf vMni io kilitz^o ShI f(n) 6 



General Office 


Receipts & Payments Statement far the year 1956-5} 


Receipts 


Total 

Rs, As. Ps. 


Payments 


Description of Receipts 
Admission Fee 
Examination Fee 
Enrolment Fee 
Migration Fee . 
Transfer Certificate Fee 
Misc. Receipts 
Donation for Printing 
Convocation Address 


Vzdya-Bhavana 
Tuition Fee . 

Residential charges . 

Receipts from Earmarked fund . 
and Donation . 


5,865 o 
13,920 6 
1,067 o 
500 0 
90 o 
851 9 

103 o 


23*485 t2 
9,625 4 

25*359 7 


Description of Payments 
o Academic General 
6 Allowance of Chhatraparichalaka 

o Examination expenses 

0 Convocation expenses 

o Membership Fee to Associations, 

o Visiting Professors’ Expenses 
Delegation exp. to Conferences . 
o Cultural Extn, Activities . 

Advertisement .... 
Refund account 

Proportionate cost of Refecto y staff 
Contr. to Students’ Club . 
Scholarships & Stipends . 

Vidya-Rhayana 
o Salary' of Teaching staff . 

o -do- office & other staff . 

P.F. contr. of Teaching staff 
6 -do- office & other staff 
D.A. of teaching staff 
-do- office & other staff . 

Research Fellowships and Scholarships 

House Allowance 

Stationery & Printing 

Education Excursion 

Contingency .... 

Passage Money 

Other allowance 


Vidya-Bhavana Hostel 
Salary of Establishment 
Prov. Fund contr. 
Dearness allowance . 

Wardens’ allowance . 

58,470 7 6 Contingency . 


Total 

Rs. As. Ps. 




4k 

u> 

96 


600 

0 

0 

22,818 

9 

6 

17,097 

3 

6 

1,282 

9 

0 

600 

0 

0 

1,717 

15 

9 

79 

6 

Q 

4,487 15- 

0 

137 

8 

O 

4,087 

8 

0 


1,14,824 

0 

9 

6,847 

2 

9 

7,586 13 

O 

441 

II 

O 

21,193 

13 

0 

4,108 

2 

6 

10,942 

IO 

6 

131 

13 

O 

444 

6 

6 

300 

O 

O 

1 jt2 .1I 

14 

6 

2,760 

2 

6 

1,000 

O 

O 

1,71,792 

10 

O 

378 

O 

0 

23 

IO 

0 

390 

0 

0 

30 

0 

0 

204 

IO 

0 

1,026 

4 

0 


1,72,818 14 o 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: JANUARY 23. I960/MAGHA 8, 1881 [Past II 



Cheena-Bhavana 
T uition fee 


Hindi Bhavma 

Donation for Prof, in Hindi . 


Chkna-Bhavana 


357 o o 

Salary of teaching staff . 

-do- office & other staff . 

P.F. contr. of teaching staff . 
-do- office and other staff 
D. Allowance to teaching stiff 
-do- office and other staff 
Stationery and Printing . 
Contingency. 

Research Scholarship 


Ch£ena-Bhayana Hostel . 

Salary of Establishment . 
Prov. Fund contr. 
Dearness allowance 
Contingency 


357 o o 


Hindi-Bhavana 

5,359 8 o Salary of Teaching staff . 

-do- office and other staff . 
P. F contr. of Teaching staff . 
-do- office and other staff 
D. Allowance teaching staff 
-do- office and other staff 
Stationer, and Printing . 
Contingency . . . . 

Other allowance 


37)394 

7 

6 

2,179 

11 

9 

2,09s 

2 

0 

155 

4 

0 

7,160 

9 

0 

1,269 

10 

9 

199 

10 

3 

270 

13 

6 

3 ) 2°5 

11 

6 

53)934 

0 

3 


412 

O 

0 

23 

14 

0 

360 

0 

0 

U 9 

II 

9 

945 

9 

9 

54-879 

10 

0 


12.6S6 

4 

6 

2,497 

11 

6 

4 i 9 

4 

0 

164 

3 

0 

2,658 

3 

6 

1)271 

0 

6 

98 

12 

0 

144 

3 

3 

164 

8 

3 



5>359 8 o 


20,104 2 6 


Sec. 3 (II)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JANUARY 28 , 



Receipts and Payments statements for the year 1956-57— contd. 


Total 


4*. 

4* 

o 


Re CEP ITS 


Description of Receipts 
SlESHA- BHAVANA 

TuitionJ Fee 
Residential charges 
Miscellaneous Receipts 


VTnaya- Bahvana 


Total 

Rs. As. Ps, - 


Payments 


Description of Payments 
Si ksba- Bbavana 


16,645 8 o Salary of teaching staff . 

8,181 o o -do- office and other staff 

29 o 0 P. F. contr. teaching staff 
-do- office and other Staff 
D. Allowance teaching staff 
-do- office and other staff 
Other allowance 
Laboratory expenses . 
Stationery and Printing . 
Contingency 

Educational excursion . 
Laboratory Equipment and 
Fixture 


Sucsha-Bhavana Hostel 

S alar y of Establishment . 
Provident Fund contribution 
Dearness allowance 
Contingency. 

Warden’s allowance 


24,855 8 o 


Vina y a- Bhavana 


Rs. As. 


P». 


33,883 

4 

3 

3 >Jo 8 

0 

0 

2,381 

8 

0 

241 

8 

0 

8,000 

2 

3 

1,980 

0 

0 

600 

0 

0 

2,481 

5 

6 

379 

10 

6 

157 

7 

3 

15 ° 

0 

0 

8,433 

2 

6 

61,796 

O 

3 

1,283 

I 

6 

89 

15 

0 

1,050 

0 

0 

289 15 

0 

30 

O 

0 

2,742 

15 

6 

64,538 15 

9 


Salary of teaching staff . 
-do- office and other staff 
P. F. contr. teaching staff 
-do- ctfffce and other staff 


22,090 9 o 
6,198 o o 
1,546 5 o 
366 1 0 


M 


Tuition Fee 
Residential charges 
Miscellaneous Receipts 


8,597 o o 

4,825 12 o 
4 9 "o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 39, 1W0/MAGHA S, 1881 


D. A, teaching staff 
-do- office and other staff 
Other allowance 
Materials for crafts 
Equipments and Raw materials 
Contingehcy . 

Stationery and Priming . 

Medical expenses 

Sports and Educational excursion . 
Conveyance charges 
Laboratory expenses 

Vinaya-Bhavana Refectory 

Salary of estabishment . 

P. F. contribution . 

Dearness allowance . 

Allowance - . . , . 


VlNAYA-B HAVANA HOSTEL ' 

Salary of Establishment . 
P. F. contribution 
Dearness allowance 
Contingency 


13427 5 o 


KALA- B HAVANA 


KALA-B HAVANA 


Tuition fee 
Residential charges 


16,123 0 0 Salary of teaching staff . 

10,794 12 o -do- office and other staff 
P, F. Coetr. teaching staff 
-do- office and other staff . 

D, A. teaching staff 

-do- office and other staff 

Honorarium to Emeritus Professor 


4,879^ 

0 

3 

3434 

0 

6 

600 

0 

0 

316 

9 

0 

39i 

9 

3 

861 

5 

0 

4D2 

TO 

0 


9 

6 

348 

2 

0 

13 

12 

0 

2S5 

0 

0 


871 

9 

9 

24 

0 

0 

360 

0 

0 

298 

6 

0 

x,553 

*5 

9 


384 

0 

0 

24 

0 

0 

360 

0 

0 

^57 

8 

9 

1,0*5 

8 

9 

44,637 13 

0 





32425 

7 

6 

6^75 12 

9 

2,365 14 

0 

373 

5 

0 

6,667 

4 

3 

2,766 

0 

0 

3,600 

0 

0 


SfiC. 8 (U)J TfiR GAZETTE OF JINPLA : JANUAkY 29, 1960/MAGHA 9, 1881 


Receipts and Payments Statement for the year 1956-57 — ccntd. 




Total 

Receipts Payments 

Rs. a. p. 


Total 
R. a. p. 


Description of Receipt , 


Sangit-Bhavana : 

Tuition Fee 
Residential chaige . 


Description cf Paymerls 

Materials for Crafts and Accesso- 
ries .... 

Museum expenses 
Contingency 
Stationery and Printing . 
Educational Excursion . 
Allowance .... 


KALA-B HAVANA HOSTEL 

Salary of Establishment - 
Provident Fund Contribution 
Dearness Allowance 
Contigency . 

Warden’s allowance 


26,917 12 o 


Sangit-Bhavana 

7,808 12 o Salary of teaching stag 2 
6,169 o o Do. office and other staff 
P. F. contr. teaching staff 
Do. office and other staff 
D.A. of teaching staff . 
Do. office and other staff 
Other allowances . 
Stationery and Printing . 
Contingency 


364 13 

3 

173 5 

0 

773 5 

0 

194 15 

3 

200 O 

0 

600 O 

0 

56,580 2 

0 


456 

0 

0 

28 

8 

0 

360 

0 

0 

199 

15 

6 

30 

0 

0 

1,074 

7 

6 

57*654 

9 

6 


47*964 

6 

9 

G992 

0 

0 

2*917 

0 

0 

156 12 

0 

10,114 

0 

0 

1,200 

0 

0 

600 

0 

0 

199 

11 ■ 

3 

5X2 

1? 

9 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JANUARY 28, 1960/MAGHA 8, 1881 [Part II 



Musical equipments 
Educational Excursion . 


PathA-BhayANA 
Toitionfee 
Residential charges 


Sangit-Bhavana Hostel 

Salary of Establishment . 
Provident Fund contr. - 
Dearness allowance; 
Contingency 
Warden's allowance 


13,977 12 o 

Patha-Bhayana 

39,045 0 o Salary of teaching staff . 

37,322 8 o Do. office and other staff 

P. F. contr. teaching staff 
Do. office and other staff 
DA of teaching staff . 
Do. office and other staff 
Allowances . 

Laboratory expenses 
Stationery and Printing . 
Contigency - 
Educational excursion . 
House rent . 


Patha-Bhavana Hostel 

Salary of Establishment . 

Prov. Fund contribution. 
Dearness allowance 
Other allowance . 
Co nting ency and Equipment . 


76,367 8 o 


KtNDBBGAKraN AND NltRSERY 

Salary 


393 

13 

0 

175 

0 

0 

66,225 

9 

3 

408 

O 

0 

25 

,8 

0 

360 

O 

Os 

103 

I 

3 

30 

O 

O 

926 

9 

3 

67,152 

2 

6 

66,o?o 

12 

9 

5*296 

O 

0 

4*543 

15 

0 

367 

O 

0 

17*557 

5 

6 

2,640 

O 

O 

600 

O 

0 

447 

I 

6 

953 

n 

9 

927 

7 

0 

400 

O 

0 

89 

10 

6 

99*843 

0 

0 

2*966 

10 

9 

166 

10 

0 

2,280 

0 

0 

[ 1,260 

9 

0 

607 

4 

0 

7,280 

8 

9 

1,07,123 

8 

9 


1,440 0 o 


SM. 8 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 1 JANUARY 281 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 



Receipts and Payments Statement far the year 1956-57 — comd. 


Receipts 


Description of Receipts 
Siesha-Chakcha 

W.B, Government Block Grant 


Publications 

Sides foi Research Publications 
Prospeotus and Forms 
V. B. Qly. Subscription 
Do. Advertisement Receipts 
V.B. News-Subscription 
Miscellaneous receipts 
Refund account (Royalty) . 


Total 
R s. a. P. 


Payments 


Description of Paymnems 

S litJHA -CHA ECHA 

38,016 8 9 Establishment 

Provident Fund contx. . 
Dearness allowance 
House Rent 

Stipend .... 
Ccattingency. 

Medical Service 
Grafts material* and Library . 
Electric charges 
Games and Sports . 

Current maintenance and white 
washing. 

Excursion .... 


38,016 8 9 


5,322 

2,749 

1=299 

29 

1,283 

39 


Publications 

Salary Of Establishment 
3 3 ' ABcwante .... 

o 0 Provident Fond contribution . 

0 o Dearness allowance 

o o Royalty to Authors 

5 6 V.B. Qtly- Printing, paper and 

3 o other charges 

Res arch Publications, paper, 
printing and other charges ■ 
Prospectus, Bulletin etc.. 

! Contingency and Forwarding . 

■ Parking and Ststicmery . 

V.B. News Printing ard other 
charges .... 


10,721 xi 9 


Total 


Rs. 

A. 

P. 

11,784 

4 

6 

694 

I 

0 

3/M4 

7 

3 

600 

0 

O 

20,159 

6 

6 

196 

8 

6 

720 

O 

0 

717 

T2 

3 

36o 

O 

O 

430 

9 

6 

360 

0 

O 

600 

0 

0 

39,567 

I 

~6 

7,095 12 

C9 

400 

O 

0 

5»5 

3 

0 

2,510 

0 

0 

22 

9 

3 

7,446 

9’ 

6 

10,070 

2 

0 

T64 

-8 

0 

i,3«7 

II 

3 

515 

6 

■6 

2,935 

5 

0 

33, *63 

3 

-3 


if 1 88 1 ‘fi VrkfcrtwAisei ‘si Afcvitfrvf = VtdNi id fctltfzvd iHA 



Physical Education 

Sport Fee 
Misc. receipt* 


MC'CTTM 
Misc, Receipts 


Ssee-Sadaha 

Salary of Establishm ent 
Prov.Fund contr. ■ 

Dearness allowance 
Food allowance fer Maid Ser- 
vant 

Other aUesrasces . 
Conti ngen cy 


Physical Education 

3,499 o o Salary of Establishment 

7 13 o Prov. Fund contribution 

Dearness allowance 
Sporting goods 
Annual Sort* 

Ground Improvement . 

Repairs, Replacements and 
Mantenance of Apparatus and 
and Swimming Pool 
Expenses for Vititingteams . 
Contingency 

3,506 13 o 


MuseusI 

45 11 o Salaryof Establishment 

Proa. Fund oontr. - , . 

Etearness allowance 
Book* and Journal’s . 

Repairing and Buildiiig MSS&J 
Miscrofilnting & Photocopying 
Publication 

Stationery and Printing 

Contingency 

Other allowance ■ 


45 11 o 


5,954 8 o 

360 12 o 

2,40a o 0 

I, 719 4 O 

60 o o 
784 2 3 

II, 278 10.3 


4,094 II 3 
303 2 o 

1,500 o o 
2,754 11 6 
523 10 o 
923 10 o 


163 2 9 
877 13 6 
404 6 9 

H,545 3 9 


11,509 2 o 
890 15 o 
3012 2 o 
18 14- o 
301 8 o 
151 5 o 

270 o o 
660 3 o 
267 12 0 


17,082 I 0 



Sic. 3 (ri)] tkfe CAzfei J l'E OF tiSjblA: JANUARY 2J, 196b/»iA(ittA 3, 1BS1 



Receipts and Payments Statement for the year 1956-57 — contd. 


Receipts 

Description of Receipts 


Library 

Admission fee 
Membership Subscription 
Misc. grants and Donation 
for bocks 
Misc. Receipts 


Total 


Rs. as. ps. 


Payments 

I) e script ton of Payments 


Total 


£ 

as 


Rs. as. ps. 


373 6 0 
74 o 0 

1,000 o o 
' 229 13 o 

1,677 3 o 


Library 

Salary of Establishment 
Prov. Fund contribution 
Dearness allowance 
Books ..... 
Binding materials and other 
charges 

Journals, Newspapers, Magazines 
and other periodicals 
Stationery and Printing 
Contingency 
Stock taking expenses 


i8,38i 4 3 
1,441 6 o 

7,228 o o 
16,619 10 3 

2,912 12 o 

LI55 3 o 
401 15 6 

785 14 6 


48,926 1 6 


Central Administration 




Central Administration 



Land Rent 

1,381 

2 

9 

Salary of Upacharya and his 



Misc. Receipts 

6yf86 

11 

6 

Office staff 

'i5,39i 15 

O 

Contr. from Gran hana Vibhaga 

65,000 

0 

0 

Salary of Registrar and Office 



Receipt from Alumni Association 

50 

0 

0 

Establishment (.Genl. Section) 

50,301 14 

0 

Salami and Consent Fee 

1,960 

0 

0 

Salary of Accounts Section 

41,587 13 

6 

Sale F roceeds 0 f B ulletins 

56 

0 

0 

Salary of Treasurer’s Section - 

5,47° 9 

0 





Provident Fund contr. 

7,946 12 

0 





Dearness allowances 

30,056 0 

9 





Calcutta Allow.Treasurer’s Sec. 

1,183 11 

0 





Other allowance . 

1,200 0 

0 



— 

— 

Discretionery Grants of Upacharya 

1,071 0 

0 


^933 

14 

3 

Contingency 

13J63 1 

2 


— — — - 




Stationery and Printing 

16,394 12 

0 





Telephone charges 

5,487 10 

0 





Rent and Taxes 

2,265 11 

9 





Office equipments. Treasurer’s Sec. 

191 8 

9 





Meeting expenses . 

6,029 3 

9 





Chests and Delegations 

2,023 5 

0 


1,99,864 15 8 


THE GAZETTE,. OF INDIA; JANUARY 23 ,. 1960/MAQHA 8, 1881 [Past II 



Festival expenses . 

Publication of Bulletins, 
prints and pictures etc. 
Travelling allowance including 
Cycle allowance . 

Law charges 
Contr. to Staff Club 
Contribution to Alumni 
Association 

Lump sum provision for salary 
adiustment 

Purchase of Motor car 
Consideration Money for 
Uttarayan properties 
Entertainment expenses 
(Upaeharya’s Office) 

Lump sum prov ision for Leave 
arrangements 
Refund Account . 


Works & Buildings 
House Rent 

Contr. from U.B. for Roads 
Misc, Receipts . 


Electricity & Water Supply — General 
Electricity charges 
Water charges 


Works & Buildings 

27,777 2 3 Salary of Establishment 

— Prov. Fund contr. 

220 4 0 Dearness allowance 

Maintenance of Buildings 
Maintenance of Roads, culverts etc. 
Repairs to Furniture & Fixture 
Estate Improvement 
Stationery and Printing 
Contingencies including 
maintenance of cycles & Postage 
Addition & Replacements of Furniture 
Equipment Minor 
Works . 

Original Works] . 


27=997 6 3 

Electricty & Water Supply — General 

13=333 12 d] Salary of Establishment 

999 O o Prov. Fund contr. 

Dearness allowance] 

Contingency 


2,180 8 

3 

2,208 0 

9 

3=870 5 

0 

278 4 

0 

4,100 0 

0 

412 12 

6 

7jOO 0 

0 

17=903 3 

0 

79 8 

0 

i a 0 

0 

2=37=907 9 

_ 

2 i 

17,319 0 

3 

1=247 8 

0 

5,809 15 

0 

22,757 12 

6 

4,408 12 

9 

1,113 13 

3 

1,929 II 

9 

359 0 

0 , 

541 2 

3 1 

40=955 5 

6 

10,553 12 

6 

1=06,995 13 

9 

6,285 15 

0 

421 5 

0 

1,740 0 

0 

442 9 

0 

8,889 13 

0 


the Gazette oT iSidia : January 23 , b> 60 /maghas, lesu 



Receipts and Payments Statement for the year I £56- $7 — Orfltd. 


Receipts 

Description of Receipts 


Total 

Rs. As. Ps, 


Payments 

Description cf Payntets 


ELB C nO CfT f 

Salary of Eleotr c Establishment 
Pror. Fuad oonlr. . 
allbwance 

Elte charges and Surcharge 
Rfcpirrs aet£d Replacements 
Original Wofki 

Tbols & hnpkments,Fans etc. 


14,332 12 o 


Water Supply 

SeStry of establishment 
PfOY.Fctnd cdntr. 

Deafness allowance 

Otter allowance 

Chemicals and Misc. Stores . 

Running cost Of Electricity 

Repairs and Renewals of Water worts 

Tools and Plants . 

Repairs and Msdnt of tanks and Wells 
IdSpectjOD and Analysis fee . 

Original works laying cf pipe etc. 


Gardens 

Misc. Receipts 


121 3 o Gardens .... 

Sitay of Establishment 
PrOVi-Fund cantribtttiac 
DfetmeSs allowance 
MkintCaance 
Contingency 


121 3 o 


Total 


Rs. As. 

Ps. 

2,580 0 

0 

178 8 

0 

^680 0 


54*473 5 

6 

2^87 6 

3 

— 

1 W 3 5 

9 

73*443 9 

6 

4*413 15 

3 

288 7 

0 

2,640 0 

0 

120 O 

0 

844 3 

3 

4,369 6 

0 

881 3 

6 

9 6 

0 

150 10 

0 

41S 14 

0 


14,135 1 

0 

95*4-67 7 

6 


4,793 

8 

6 

394 

7 

0 

3*493 

9 

9 

1,822 

9 

6 

73 

6 

3 

io *475 

9 

0 


T3 

5 

q 


448 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1900/MAGHA 3, 1881 





Watch & Wakd 

Night Wash charges 


Watch 8c Wam> 

848 11 0 Salary of Establishment 
Prov. Fund cootributioB 
Dearness allowance 
Contingencie* 

Oliver allowance . 

848 11 o 


5, 732 6 « 
361 3 o 
4461 4 o 
344 1 « 

696 0 0 

H.595 I o 


Hospital 
Medical Foe 

Medicine 

Clinical Laboratory fee 
X’Rar charges 
Sale of Horlrdc* 
Doaatioo 


8,166 8 o 
4,257 9 i> 
3,766 10 o 
3,869 o o 

576 6 o 
23 o o 


Hospital 

Salary of BMablisbment 
Prov. Fuiwcontribution 
Dearness allowance 
Drugs . 

Equipments and Furniture 
Cftuical expenses . 

House Rent 
Eye and Dental dime 
Emergency expenditure' 
Sick diet . . 

Books and journals 
Stationery and Printing 
X’Ray Clinic 
Cooriagcacy 


T 9,661 I O 


2J444 7 o 
1,696 12 o 

7^51 7 e 
8,567 o o 
1,103 10 9 
376 14 o 
60 o o 
412 14 o 
US 7 o 
95* 1 6 
1360 
444 14 6 

3.35* 8 o 
1 ,088 2 9 

48,119 9 o 


3AMITATIOH 

Contr. from Unkm Board 


SAKTTATICTJ 

Salary of Eseabtishment 
Pror. Fund contribution 
Dearness allowance ’' 
Occasional Labour 
Cycle Allowance 
Disinfectant 
Cootiagsnsy 


4,885 7 9 
143 4 o, 
4^59 5 * 

4*8 4 o 

40 o o 
2,091 9 3 
103 10 3 


13*391 8 9 


toe, I (U)] TH* GAZETTE OP INDIA : JANUAAT 88, 1960/MAGHA B, 1881 


" RlS&pfi at& PayntttasStatement for^the year 1956‘57-^OrnHi - 


Receipts 

Description of Receipts 


Guest House: 

Room rent & Seat rent 
Misc, Receipts 


Santiniketan Press: 
Printing charges 
‘Bindings charges 
Sale of papers 
Misc. Receipts 


Toted Total 

Patments 


Rs. . 

s> 

p. 

Description of Payments 

Rs. 

A« 

P, 




Guest House: 




3,598 

8 

0 

Salary of Establishment 

7,403 

14 

9 

650 

0 

0 

Prov. Fund contr. 

446 

3 

Q 




Dearness allowance 

4^)80 

0 

0 




House allowance 

120 

0 

0 




Other allowance 

60 

0 

O 




Equipments .... 

1,078 13 

3 




Stationery and Printing 

'78 

4 

3 




Contingency 

372 

8 

3 




Occasional Labour 

. 11 

4 

0 ■ 

4^48 

8 

0 


13,650 15 

6 




Santiniketan Press; 




31,725 

2 

0 

Salaries and allowance 

19,751 

2 

3 

2^23 

9 

6 

Prov.-Fund contr. 

1,486 

8 

0 

3,982 

10 

9 

Dearness allowance 

10^49 

15 

9 

3TO 

12 

0 

Extra allowance 

1,146 

10 

0 




Purchase of papers 

4444 

8 

0 




Binding materials 

204 

8 

6 




Packing materials 

150 

6 

0 




Printing materials 

477 

0 

6 




Contingencies 

127 

8 

9 




Contr. of Silpocsava 

70 

0 

0 




Electric charges 

653 

3 

0 




Oils and Lubricants 

77 

14 

0 




Postage 

56 

12 

0 




Rly. Freight and Cartage . 

302 

10 

Q 




Repairs to Machinery Furniture 

116 

15 

6 




Stationery .... 

226 

14 

3 




Travelling allowance 







Types and Cases 

598 

13 

6 




House Allowance 

rjo 

0 

0 




Depredation 


— 


38,242 2 

3 



40,691 

6 

0 


the GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 28, I960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Par: 







Telephone Section : 








Salary of establishment 

2,097 

14 

0 





Prov. Fund contr. 

130 

7 

0 





Dearness allowance 

1=565 

0 

0 





Contingency 

15 

12 

3 





Other allowance 

165 

O 

0 






3.974 

I 

3 

Recurring Grants : — 








Government of India 

11,114^000 

O 

O 





Government of West Bengal 

40,000 

O 

O 





Government of Orissa 

7=0*8 

O 

0 





Government of Assam 

2,000 

0 

0 





Government of Uttar Pradesh 

1,000 

0 

0 






11,64,088 

0 

0 





Donations : 








Hmdusthan Chanty Trust 

12,000 

0 

0 

Value of I.P.O. Written off 

25 

0 

0 

Visva-Bharari Society 

50,000 

0 

0 

Provision for Depreciation Fund . 

509000 

O 

0 

Miscellaneous .... 

385 

0 

0 





62,385 

0 

0 





Loan Ajc. (For Staff Quarters'): 




Loan A/c. (For Staff Quarters) : 

Repayment of Loan 




House Rent 

4,800 

0 

0 

uxpoo 

O 

0 




Maintenance of Buildings 

839 

7 

0 


4^00 

0 

0 


10,839 

7 

0 

Santiniketan Refectory: 




Santinketan Refectory : 




Messing charges 

2,01,494 

9 

3 

Salary of establishment 

14,112 

3 

9 

Contr. from General Fund 

4^87 

8 

0 

Prov, Fund contr. 

955 

I 

0 

Misc. Receipts 

646 

5 

0 

Dearness allowance 

8,595 13 

3 

Advance from General Fund 

75,214 

6 

6 

Other allowance 

60 

O 

0 




Food materials 

2=25,779 

O 

3 





Fuel ..... 

7,985 11 

9 





Utensils, Furniture etc. 

2,139 

0 

0 





Sick diet for Girls’ students 

Contingency 

U253 

9 

0 


231442 12 

9 



2,60,880 

7 

0 


Sec. S <U>] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA. JANUARY 23, 1960 y"MAGHA 3, 1881 



Receipts and Payma t a S t a tement far tinker W&-J7 — Cwfil, 


u 

fc> 


Receipts 

Description of Receipts 


Tout 

Ra. 4. r. Payments 

Description of Pay matts 


Total 

Ra. a- r 


Coal Section: 
Sale of Coal 
Misc. Receipts 


Coal Section. 

32^26 5 9 Salary of Establishment 
■ 384 II 3 Prov. Fund contr. 

Dearness allowance 
Purchase of coal 
Contingency . 


33,211 1 o 


Social Tetbion Scheme 
Salary of Establishment 
Dearness allowance 
Travelling allowance 
Books 

Misc. expenses 


Development Schehb — zhd Fra 
Yeas Plan: 

Vidya Bhavaka: 

Salary of Teaching staff 
Prov. Fund contr. of Teaching staff 
Dearness alkrw. of Teaching staff. 
Research Fellowship and Scholar- 
ship «... 


DicnoNATf Peoject (DBVELcr*uo Afa: 
Books .... 

Furniture .... 

Stationery, Contingency St T.A. 


909 

3 

6 

18 

8 

0 

673 

8 

6 

35,953 

2 

6 

304 

15 

3 

37,859 

7 

9 


3^66 14 

3 

130 0 

0 

509 5 

3 

1 6 

0 

550 O 

6 

5,157 10 

O 


5,144 9 
208 8 

3 

0 

407 3 

6 

3,498 11 

3 

9,259 O 

0 

154 13 

0 

196 12 

0 

95 5 

6 

446 14 

6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1960/MAC HA g, 1881 



Aow-Bconomic Ramses 
Ctatxtl Govt Gnat 


R*a*i pts from ULI.T, 


49^00 o o 


Ao*o- Economic Rbveamb 
S alary of Estabfisluneat 
Prov. Pond contr. 

Dtcfles allowance 
Field allowance 
Travelling ilia wanes 
House Rent 
Books and Joomah 
Pumftnre and Eepipmana 
Stationary and Printing 
Telephone charges 
Contingency 
Publication 


* 3,003 0 o 


aj>eo o o M.I.T. Schkmk 

Salary 


2,000 0 o 


Mum Pum 

Central Govt. Grant 9,000 o o 

JU w : Tttaoaf erred to Aetna co A/c. 5a 13 3 *«MT 0 9 



MAirnPuiK 

Salary 

Dearness slknraAcc 
Hcuse Rent 
Travelling allowance 
Stationery and Printing 
Contingency 


35.463 3 * 
a,t75 a o 
*,003 11 o 
1,390 n o 
<,989 10 o 
900 o o 
1,637 14 9 
a.204 6 9 
M *4 'i 5 6 
233 15 o 1 
1,357 13 o 
1,014 7 0 

<*,757 H 9 


i,yjo o o 


I. 7 SO 

0 

O 

4,184 

8 

O 

871 

8 

0 

714 

3 

6 

534 

5 

9 

207 

15 

O 

Il 6 

8 

0 

*,629 

O 

3 


Central Govt, for Katir Puja 
Central Govt. Grant for Study Toots 
Central Govt. Grant for Books on 
Humanities 

Central Govt. Grant fry Publication 
of approved Research Works . 
Central Govt. Grant for Ref air* 
and Renewals of Tata Building 
Central Govt. Grant to meet defi- 
cit for 1955-56 


i>ooo o o Expenditure for Natti Puja Perf or m a nce 
3,420 0 o Expenditure for Study tours 
Library Books an Humanities 
20,000 o o Expenditure an collection of Folk 
strngs .... 

1,600 o o Maintenance of Buildings . 

37,300 0 o 

1 ,00,000 o 0 


1,38* 8 9 
656 o o 
tS.779 6 6 

782 6 o 
40,871 14 o 



*W. S ( 11 )] TH 1 GAZETTl OP INDIA : JANUARY IS, I 960 /MAGHA 3 , 1881 


Receipts and Payments Statement for the year 1956-5"— Could. 


Receipts 


Total 

Rs. As. Ps. Payments 


Description of Receipts 
Earmarked Donations 

Bata Shoe Co. Ltd. for Chair of 

Economics 

Sundry Donanors 


Unrealised Central Govt. Giant 
for Natir Puja Performance 


Funds 

Sundry Earmarked Funds 
Compassionate Allowance Fund 
Discretionary Grant Fund 
Depreciation Fund 


} 0,000 c o 
1.28® 0 o 


De scrip t ion of Pay merits 
Earmarked Donations 
Expenses from Sundry Earmarked 
Donations 

Expenses on Chair of Hindi 
Expenses from Chair of English 
and Economics 


11^288 0 o 


388 8 9 Expenditure incurred out of Un- 

spent Balance of Islamic and 
Urdu Studies Grant 


51,064 4 3 
106 11 o 
120 o o 
50,000 o o 


Fends 

Poddar Fund expenses 
Rabindra Bkaiati Fund Expenses 
Expenses from Discretionary Grant 
Furd 


81,290 15 3 


Fund Investment Account 
Sundry Earmatk“d Fund 
Compassionate Allowance Fund . 


Fund Income 

Investment from Earmarked Fund 


Expenditure from Fund Income 
16,313 15 o Expenditure out of Fund Income 


Investment 

Central Govt Grant for Hostel 
Servants Quarters 
Central Govt. Grant far Sinking 
Tube well fWater Supply Sch- 
-emet 


Capital Expenditure 
Construction of Swimming Pool 

jo S7A o o 

Capital Expenditure— 5 Year Plan 
Vidya-Bhavana Envelopment 
1 00,000 o o Sangita-Bhavana 


Total 

Rs. As. Ps. 


1,950 

8 

0 

5.359 

8 

O 

16 15 0 

1 

6 

23460 

T 

6 


9409 

6 

0 

2,573 

11 

3 

163 

8 

0 

139 

O 

0 

2,876 


3 

33 955 

13 

0 

106 

11 

0 

34.062 

8 

0 

5 275 

IC 

6 

235 

3 

0 

41422 

1 

6 

112 

3 

6 


454 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2B, 1900/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part D 







Checna-Bhavana 

112 3 

6 1. 





Viaaya-Bhavana - 

15,387 15 

0 1 





Kala-Bhavana 

M4 1 5 

0 . 


i.io,575 

O 

0 


58,475 12 

6 

Deposits 




Deposits 


~ 1 

Income Tax Deposit 

9,589 11 

6 

Income Tax Deposits 

9,589 11 

6 | 

Student’s Deposit 

6,9M 

15 

0 

Students Deposits 

7,070 8 

0 

Prov. Fund Deposit 

71,831 

14 

3 

Prov. Fund Deposit 

71,831 14 

3 

Kitchen Deposit 

50 

0 

0 

Kitchen Deposit 

905 0 

0 

Caution Money Dep. 

3,76o 

8 

6 

Caution, money Deposit 

2,762 14 

6 

Urban Bank Dep. 

10048 11 

9 

Urban Bank deposit 

10,248 11 

9 

Miscellaneous Deposit 

5,93,952 

5 

9 

Miscellaneous Deposit 

3,59,696 3 

0 

Contractor’s Security Dep. 

3,348 

9 

6 

Contractor’s Security Deposit . 

n,554 6 

6 1 

Constructor’s Earnest Money Dep. 

4,699 

0 

0 

Contractor’s Earnest Money Dep. 

P4,528 0 

0 1 

Students Union Fee Deposit- 

1,044 

0 

0 

StudentsUnion Fee Deposit 

470 0 

° 1 

Library Earnest Money 

5 

0 

0 

Library Earnest Money Deposit 

to 0 

0 | 

Old Caution Money Dep, 




Old Caution money Deposit 

10 0 

0 

Refresher Course Stipend & T.A. 

1467 

0 

0 

Refresher course stipend and T.A. 

1,467 0 

0 

Stipends & Scholarships 




Stipends and Scholarships etc. 



Central Govt. Stipd. & Schol. 

28,587 

4 

0 

Central Govt. Stipend and Scholarship 

30,999 12 

0 

Other Govt. Stipd. & Schol. 

18,460 

4 

0 

Other Govt. Stipend and Scholarship 

27,963 8 

0 

Misc. Stip. & Schol. 

300 

0 

0 

Misc. ^Stipend and Scholarships 

300 0 

0 


7,64,269 

4 

3 


. 5,39,407 9 

6 

Arrear stipend and T.A. from 







W. B.G-ovt, for Refresher course 

- ■ ■ 1,590 

0 

0 




Advances Realised from Misc. Parties 

2,13,315 14 

6 

Advances to Misc. Parties .... 

2429470 4 

9 

Do. Do. Central Govt, for 







Hostel Bldg. 

2^21 15 

5 

Do. Do. Centfal Govt, for Natir Puja 

388 8 

9 I 

Do. Do. Master Plan 

1 52 

15 

3 




Imprest to Departments 

n,327 

9 

0 

Imprest to Departments .... 

8,650 0 

0 


2,27,518 

6 

2 


2,38,508 13 

6 

Stores 




Stores 



Maintenance Stores 




Maintenance Stork 



Works and Buildings 

6,011 

8 

3 

Works and Buildings .... 

6,658 3 

3 ! 

Electricity & Water Supply „ 

6,568 

6 

0 

Electricity and Water Supply 

6,767 15 

9 u 


13,579 14 3 


13,426 3 o 


Sic. 3 (ii)j THE -GAZETTE Ol I\U1V J VNUARV 73, 19G0/MAGHA '3, 1881 



Rmkfts 



Total 

Ha. As. Fa. 


Fatojstc 



Dtsoriptim of Receipts 


Dsnriptin of Paymaatt 


Cmii Stokes 


Cakit&l Stokes 


Steel Material* . 
Cement , 

Electric Goods * 


Totsl— .General Office (Saatiniketaa) 
Paffii Snsgstksvs Vlbktfs 

Gkout ‘ A ’ Academic Sectioh 

X SlKSHA SATBA 

Fees *nd Contr, from student* , 
Misc. Income from Productive 
Article* .... 
Seat rest &. Light charges 
F coding charges for students . 
W.h. Govt, maintenance grist 


9,139 a 3 

1M08 ik 6 Steel Materials 
4.636 I 8 Cement 

Electric Good* 


31,004 0 J 


33,07,145 3 S Total — General Office (5antiaiket»a) 


G*orr ' A 1 Academic Dcpaktheht 
1. Stesha- Satka 
E stablishment . 

3^15 15 3 P. F- 

Dearness allowance . 

147 3 6 Foodin# charges for students 
<41 o 0 Light dvsTge* and contr. to flesith See. 

114 5 O Crafts materials and Training 
jpoo 0 O Agriculture, Poultry k Fishery 

Books, appliances and Sdeace materials etc. 
Stationary and Priattng 
Games and outing 
Contingency .... 

Stipend and Scholarship 
Equipment* .... 


*,*& 9 9 


*4,0*9 1* 

0 

13,999 

14 

9 

2^9t 

9 

9 

40,5*1 

4 

8 

r 3*^1,631 

8 

8 


13^04 

IS 

3 

«99 

4 

0 

5,039 

0 

0 

3,812 

14 

6 

665 

0 

0 

400 

0 

0 

ItS 

0 

6 

in 

3 

6 

129 

3 

0 

688 

11 

6 

106 

7 

6 

20 

8 

0 

*3,I9J 

I 

9 


TZ 

5 


b 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA: JANUARY tS. I9C0/MAGHA 8, 1881 


x Lom-Sixsha 


a. LacB-SroHi 


Fees 

Sate of I >ar*tare 
Sate of Books 
Postage 
Misodtsaeow 


3. Libra it 

Sale of OM H«*J Paper 
Mlac. receipt 


4. Lmul SERVICE Schwab 
(Sponsored by W. B. Govt.) 
W.B. Gort. gram 


3. Cottage Issranx Tbadothg 
Sbotok 

Admission Fee 
Fees from Trainee* 

Sale proceeds 

Seat rent and Medical fee 
light . 

Miacellaneoaa 


3,701 9 4 Establi»hment 
174 14 0 Contr. to Pros. Fund 
131 3 o Books for centre 
116 9 3 Bonks for Library and sal* 
3 to o P*pnr setting and Exam, (he 
Stationery and Printing 
Postage and Telegram 
Travelling 
Contingency 
Deazneaa aOoaraoee 


4^27 13 9 


3. Loiait 

11 13 O Establishment 

19 8 o P. F. cotnr. 

Books .... 

Newspaper amd Magazine 

Binding 

Contingency 

Do* mesa allowance 

Allowance 


31 S o 


4. Li bout Sbxvics Scheme 
(S ponsored by W. B. Govt.) 
1,348 11 o Establishment . 
Contingency 
Dearmaa allowance 


1,348 it o 


5. Cottage Isdcstbt Teaikimg Section 

Establishment • ‘ 

163 g o Allowance .... 

3,019 g o P. F. Corrr 

3,193 12 6 Fire Insurance . . , 

333 2 o Telephone .... 

307 g o Stipend .... 

364 4 6 Saw material* 


4,010 

» 

Q 

335 

4 

0 

179 

IS 

O 

r°i 

4 

0 

619 

3 

9 

S 3 7 

0 

9 

33 

3 

0 

3 

g 

O 

I.140 

0 

0 

T.S 77 

6 

6 

i,Soo 

0 

0 

IS© 

0 

0 

196 13 

0 

196 

3 

0 

3 ir 

14 

0 

60 

5 

0 

699 

9 

9 

55 

0 

0 

3*469 12 

9 


948 

0 

0 

4° 

II 

0 

360 

0 

0 

1.348 

11 

0 


35,671 

O 

6 

8 p 6 10 

0 

3,527 

3 

0 

370 

0 

0 

3,94* 

0 

3 

3,491 

to 

9 


■J 


to. 8 (H)] THl GAZ 1 TTI Of INDIA : JANUARY 2 S, 1 M 0 /MAGHA 8, 1881 



Receipt t and Payments Statement for the yeas 1956-57— -contd. 


RbceipTs 
Description of Receipts 


Contr. from Satra for Raw materials 
Examination fee 
Animal lor Gjrmes and Li bran 1 
W.Ii. Government giant 


Cottage Industry Workshop 
Training 
Sale proceeds 
Miscellaneous 


Total 

Rs. As. Ps. Payments 

Description of Payments 

400 o o Equipments ' 

336 o o Books and News Paper 
63 o o Commission 

13,200 o o Medical fee and Medicine conrr. 

Light charges .... 
Repairs a nd 1 Repla cements 
Games and S ocial Activities 
Fuel and Furnace 
Travelling 

Contr. to Upkeep for maintenance 

Stationery and Printing 

Contingency 

Dearness allowance 

Labour 

Forwarding 

Rebate 


20,401 1 0 


Cottage Industry Workshop 
Training 

3,692 4 o Estab lishme nt 

167 13 o P. F. Contribution 
Dearness allowance 
Raw materials • 

Tools and Implements 
Repairs and Replacements 
Power and Fuel 
Stipend and Labour 
Contingency 

Stationery and Printing 

Trav. and Excursion 

Commission 

Rebate 


3,860 1 o 


Total 


Rs. As. 

Ps 


i, 

2,618 

7 

3 

102 1 4 

6 

64 to 

6 

248 14 

0 

1,168 

11 

6 

203 

4 

0 

79 

O 

0 

166 

13 

0 

477 

8 

6 

1,000 

O 

O 

133 

14 

6 

400 

14 

3 

10,248 

i2 

O 

571 

12 

0 

I 

I 

0 

246 

0 

3 

65,530 

7 

9 


1 5,9<>7 

II 

9 

1,242 

0 

O 

4 , 137 ' 

8 

O 

1,325 

0 

O 

986 

0 

3 

216 

2 

O 

163 

8 

0 

3,677 

7 

6 

38 

9 

9 

4 

2 

0 

96 

5 

6 

185 

3 

6 

309 

2 

6 

28,288 

12 

9 


4- 

le 

00 


79 

I 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 1 JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1661 



Gronp'B’ General Administration 
& Estate Maintenance 
i. General AdMinistratipns — 
General 

Sale of Literature 
Telephone Trunk calls 
Stall rent. Donation Grants etc. 
Electric charges 
Miscellaneous 

W.B. Govt. Grant from civil 
Surgeon, Suri 

W.B. Govt, from NES Block, 
Bolpur, Sriniketan 
W.B. Govt. from Agri- Officer, 
Su r i (55-56) 

W.B. Govt. Agri-Officer, Sun 
(56-S7) 

W.B. Govt, from Director of 
Industries 

W.B. Govt. Grant for folk 
recreational activities . 


2. Office 


3. Works & Estate Maintenance 
House Rent .... 
District Board Grant 
Union Board grant 
Income from Santal Palli Land 
Contr. for night watch form 
V.B.C.C. Bank 
Miscellaneous 

Contr. for Upkeep of Bldgs of 
C.I. Trg. 


2-V5 

I 

9 

105 

0 

0 

523 

10 

0 

4 

0 

0 

n 

0 

0 

too 

-0 

0 

150 

0 

0 

130 

0 

0 

130 

0 

0 

250 

0 

0 

1,000 

0 

0 

2,648 

II 

9 


Group ' B’ General Administration 
& Estate Maintenance 
1. General Administration — 

, General 
Establishment. 

P. F. contr. 

Anniversary' and Festival 
Guest Entertainment 
Contr.to Sriniketan Club 
Telephone Rent (Trunk calls) 
Other allowance 
Exhibition, Posters Chart etc. 
Electric charges 
Stationery and Punting 
Postage and Telegram 
Travelling .... 
Contingency .... 
Dearness allowance 
Folk recreational and other 
activities 


2. Office 

Establishment 
P. F. contr. 
Dearness allowance 
Other allowance 


5,577 8 o 

300 o o 
249 12 o 

75 o o 
52 8 o 

t,ooo o o 


3 Works & Estate Maintenance 
Establishment - . 

P. F. contr, . 

Maintenance of Estate 
Maintenance of S anti -A Srini- 
ketan Road 
Santal Palli Land 
Other allowance 
Road repair& General cleanin - 
at Sriniketan 


14,331 

I 

0 

1,100 

13 

0 

2,935 

14 

3 

293 

13 

9 

300 

0 

0 

410 

14 

0 

60 

0 

0 

554 

s 

3 

1,170 

5 

6 

631 

5 

3 

345 

14 

3 

817 

1 

6 

317 

12 

6 

4^72 

7 

9 

1,000 

0 

0 

28,541 

15 

O 


“,826 

9 

9 

553 

5 

0 

2,941 

13 

3 

n,32l 

12 

0 

6,502 

0 

9 

436 

10 

0 

6,762 

4 

■6 

928 

10 

0 

231 

2 

3 


932 2 o 


7,254 12 o 


a ( 11 )} THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, UWO/MAGHA 8 , 1881 459 




THE GAZETTE Of INDIA: JANUARY 23, 19S0/MAGHA I, IM1 f*A n It 




6. Bakmt 

Sales . 


Cjsorp * IT -Social Toes & Vella «* 
Extn. 

i. Hbalth & Sanitation 
( a) General 

Conti, from Vinaya-Bhavana . 
Contr. from Sikaha-Charcha . 
Contr. from Siksha-Satra 
Contr. from C. X. Training 
Medicalfee . 

Sale of Medicine . 
MisceUaneoue 


2. AGBICPLTXTM 
(a) EXPERIMENTS 
Sale of Paddy 
W. B. Govt. Grant 


(bi Demonstration * Ermaotc 

3*137 13 

3 

Garden Crop* 

3^99 9 

6 

Paddy 

3 AS 6 6 

0 

Orchard & Nursery 

430 13 

3 

Fodder. 

1 , 63 * 13 

6 

Fishery .... 

49 1 

0 


7,698 ij 

3 



6. Basest 
Ettahlishmeat 
P. F. contr. . 
Dearness allowance 


Groop 'B’-Social Toes* Villas* 
Extn. 

i. Health & Sanitation 
( a ) General 
Establishment 

P. F. contr, .... 
Medicine . 

Travelling allowance , . 

Equipments .... 
Contingency 
Dearness allowance 


2. AoaicOT.Ttnm 
(a) HlPBRSVtENTS 
Establishment 
P. F. contr. . 

Dearness allowance 
Paddy Varietal Trial 
Paddy M,x nor Ial Trial . 
Repairs and Replacements 
Travelling . 

Contingency 
Other allowance 


(b) Demonstration St Emsocef 
Garden Crops 
Paddy Cultivation . 

Orchard and Nursery 
Lead Development 
Fodder Cultivatkai . 

Fishery . . . ' . 

Extension work in yillage 


34® 

0 

0 

7 

I 

0 

1 6c 

0 

0 

J°7 

1 

0 


5,H* 

0 

O 

413 

4 

0 

I,* 1 8 

1 

3 

10 

2 

0 

157 

8 

9 

1,62c 

0 

0 

9,*»3 

7 

0 


5/540 0 

0 

367 8 

0 

2,280 0 

0 

629 12 

9 

8 S 

O 

180 15 

6 

46 14 

O 

149 8 

6 

60 0 

O 

8,763 2 

9 

791 13 

6 

M5° xo 

3 

377 14 

3 

273 7 

6 

1,624 X 

O 

146 13 

O 

70 14 

0 


4,734 ir *6 



toe. • (II)] THE GA7.ETTE OP INDIA) JANUARY 23, 1M0/MAGHA I, 1981 


Receipts mid Payments 



84 13 6 


the year 1956-57 — Contd. 


Payments. 

Description of Payments 


(c) Dairy & Poultry 

Establishment 
P. F. contribution . 

Dearness allowance 

Feeds ato Cattle and Birds 

Medicine and Treatment cost . 

Electric charges 

Repairs and Replacements 

Casual Labour 

Contingency 

Development of Cattle & Poul- 
try in Villages 


3. Village ErrENStoK 

(a) General 
Establishment 

P. F. contr. .... 
Dearness allowance 
Aid to Village Societies . 

Contr. to. Prasad Vidyalaya 
Brati Balaka Organisation 
Fooding & Tray, exp. for Wor- 
kers Visiting Sriniketan, 
Villages and other places 
Contingency .... 



Total 

Rs. As. Pb. 


5,090 7 9 
362 4 o 
2,560 to 3 
30,684 xi o 
725 6 9 

136 15 6 

382 5 6 

4,411 2 6 

1,088 o 3 


45,441 15 6 


23,190 o o 
1,908 6 o 
6,549 o o 
877 o o 
216 o o 
2,102 3 9 


360 I o 
1150 


35,213 15 9 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 28, 1060/MAGHA 3, 1881 [PART H 



(b) Adult Education 
W. B. Govt, grant 


1 2 >266 8 6 


12,266 8 6 

(cj Health Esin Work in 
Vuxagbs 

Sale of Medicine . 589 8 6 

Contr. from Aruna Amita Fund 

Endowment 322 5 o 


911 13 6 


(d) Maternity & Child Wel- 
fare 

Miscellaneous ... 17 5 o 

W. B. Govt. Grant towards 

salary of Lady Health Visitor 1,932 o o 


Recurring Grants 

Block Grant W. B. Govt. 

W.B. Govt. Grant for mainte- 
nance of Audio- Vi* ial for 
1955-56 \ 
do. 1956-57 J 


1)949 5 ° 

5cyx» o o 

4,500 o o 


54 ) 5 «> o o 


(*) Adult Education - 

Establishment 
P. F. contr. . 

Dearness allowance 
Adult Education Expansion (in- 
cluding Training Camp) . 
Travelling and fooding . 
Contingency 

Allowance to literary Workers 
Allowance Is Soda! Workers . 


(c) Health Extn Work in 
Villages 

Medicine for Village Societies 
Anti-tnalarial Work Sc Other 
Prophylactic Measures '. 

Diet and Medicine for poor pa 
tient (Aruna Amita Fund) . 
Travelling 
Contingency 


id ) Maternity & Child Wel- 
fare 

Establishment 
Drugs . 

Travelling 
Contingency 
Dearness allowance 


3,648 o o 
275 4 0 
1,440 o 0 


438 14 6 
2,705 12 3 
3,660 o o 
7,340 o o jj 

19,507 14 9 



I 1 

305 2 6 

322 5 o 1 

73 12 o 

104 7 3 


805 10 9 


1,704 o o 
-43 13 o 
217 1 6 

64 9 6 
840 o o 

2,869 8 0 


1 

t 


1 


1 


£ 


UJ 


8 (U)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 . 1960 /MAGHA 3 , 1881 



RecafU ami Pajat o u t Stauma or far tha year 1956-37 — Ctmii, 


Rsaarrs 

Deuriptkm of Receipts 


Total 

Rs. A». Ps. 


Patmbnts 

Dcacripwtn of Paym mi s 


Total 

Rs. A*. Pb. 


(e) C. I. Exthksioh 6c. REHABILITA- 
TION 

(i) Gbnbbal 

Sales Tax . 

Stores ..... 
Trunk call credit ■ 

Purchased Books . 
Commission Earned 
Contr. from Wearing 
Conn, from Carpentry • 


(a) C. I. Eirrasios & Rieabiijta- 
tion 

(i) General 

2,ioS 7 6 Establishment 

10 ta o P. F conn. .... 
33 4 o' Dearness aflowinoe 

j o o Telephone charges 

1X4 15 6 Stationery and Printing 

4,709 13 o Travelling .... 

*>369 14 0 Advertisement, Exhibition and 

Sampling .... 
Commission on Books 
Electric charge* 

Contingency 
Interest of Loan 
Sales Tut ... 

Forwarding for V. B. Books 
License sod jTaxe*. 

Emtrteinniebt 
Expenses for design , 


1 8,35a a a 


Loan Account* 
Repayment of Loan 


8a 8 o 
780 
30 o o 
55 3 o 
IM 3 9 
491 o 9 

238 ix 6 
86 11 9 
. 70 7 o 
47 a 9 
5,000 o o 
2,688 3 o 
900 

7 4 0 

35 14 ° 


9.043 1 5 <* 


13,9*6 a o 


(ft) Wbatdw 

Sales .... 
Forwarding . . , 

Rekate bona W. B. Gett 


77*46* * 9 

75 tJ o 
1 >473 * 3 


(#) WiATnta 
PaooucnoN Cost 
Raw materials 
Labour 

Power and U 
Equipment* . 

Repairs and Replace®#** 
Con t in g a r c y 


51,101 t 6 
*7,138 13 9 
»*a 4 6 

13 * 7 O 

*786 

«« o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 21, 1960/MAGHA I, 18*1 JR 



Selling Cost 


(m) Carpentry 
Sales - 
Miscellaneous 
Forwarding . 


Works & Estate Maintenance 
Store Stock maintenance 


Forwarding charges 
Rebate. .... 
Commission on sales 
Office Cost 

Proportion of General Expenses 

79,020 io o 


23,128 14 9 
1856 
96 13 o 


tint Carpentry 
Production' Cost 
Fitabhshmenr 

P. F. contr. .... 
Dearness allowance 
Materials .... 

Labour . 

Power and fuel 

Repairs and Replacements 

Took & Equipments 

Contingency 

Seii ing Cost 

Forwarding charges 

Rebate. .... 

Commission .... 

Office Cost 

Proportion of General expenses 


23,244 x 3 


Works and Fatatf Maintenance 
3,918 5 6 Store Stock maintenance 

Earmarked Donations— 

Expense-, for Leprosy Clinic . 

Social Welfare Research 

Salary of Research Scholars 
Office including Typist. Publi- 
cation and Printing question- 
naire 

Conveyance .' 


956 10 

3 

1,142 

2 

3 

7.-726 

8 

0 

4.709 

t 3 

0 

94.351 

7 

9 


1*020 

O 

0 

84 12 

0 

480 

O 

0 

14-301 

II 

«■» 

7.47s 13 

6 

159 

12 

0 

61 

15 

c 

V6 

O 

0 

70 

5 

0 

59 

' 8 

0 

4 

12 

o 

413 

9 

c 

1.569 

14 

0 

25.790 

15 

9 


4,246 9 

9 

1*393 3 

c 

2.410 14 

6 

<49 7 

c 

■60 12 

0 


3-C2I 1 6 


I 

1 CN 

GA 


Sec. S (li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 1‘JGO/MAGHA 3, 1881 



Receipts and Payments Statement for the year 1956-57 — Contd. 


Total 



Total 



Receipts 

Rs, As. Ps. 

Payments 

Re Ae. 

Ps 

1 

Description of Receipts. 



Description of Payments 




W. B. Govt, grant for Appren- 



Rxieaditure on Apprenticeship 




ticeshipTrg. 

T.265 0 

0 

T raining in village Development 

1.260 

0 

0 

YT. B. Govt. Grant foi obaer- 

- 








vance of Universal Children’s 



Universal Children’s day 

197 

6 

6 

day 

197 6 

6 

- CtPiTAi Expenses from Grants 


— 

— 




Education Development Scheme 

No. 6 . 

Improvement of Dve House at 

*,416' 

6 

0 




Silpasadana 

489 

12 

0 




Development of Silpasadana 

422 

7 

0 




C. J Dev. Scheme No. 3 

174 

6 

0 





7.502 

15 

0 

Power House — Sale of Machinery . 

4-875 0 

0 





Sale of Fumitare, Equipment A 'c. 







(Typewriter 

275 a 

0 





Consignment 



Consignment 




Sale of V.B. Books 

1.374 14 

0 

V.B. Books .... 

574 

14 

0 1 

Sundry Creditors , 



Sundrv Creditors 




General ..... 

460 9 


General .... 

6,842 

O 

1 j 

Sundry Deduction . 

I9 3 529 12 

6 

Sundrv Deductions 

19,529 

12 

6 1 


19,990 5 

9 


26,371 

12 

v 

Advance .... 

87,886 6 

6 

Advance .... 

^ 4 j 574 

I 

9 

Advances against salary 

6,127 8 

0 

Advance against salary 

6,127 

8 

0 jl 

Imprest 

11,204 11 

9 

Loan Irom General Fund 

33**04 

7 

3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2S, 1960/MAGHA S, 1881 [Part 



Suspense .... 
Deposit-General 
Deposit-Sriniketan Shop 
Deposit-Santiniketan Shop . 
Deposit -Consignment Sale . 
Deposit-V.B.C.C. Bank Ltd. 
Other Govt. Stipend and Sehoiar- 
ship .... 


Total— Path Samgathan Yiebaea . 

Total — General Office ' Santiniketan 

Total— Palfi Samga SiaraVnhasa 

Opening Bank Balances : 

State Bank of India. Caicara 
do. Sliamhazar 

do, Bolpur 

United Bank of India Ltd., Bol- 
pur .... 
do. D karma tola 

do. P.s.y A c. Bolpur 


Grand Total 


1,254 2 

9 

Imprest ..... 

9,796 

0 

6 

9,781 9 

6 

Suspense .... 

2,567 

2 

9 

24.931 IS 

6 

Deposit-General 

8-463 

2 

6 

19.789 7 

3 

Deposit-Siiniketan Shop 

24,211 

0 

6 

34-7*9 is 

0 

Deposit-Santiniketan Shop! 

14,432 

3 

6 

1,04. N 5 

6 

Depodt-Consignmcnl Salt . 

19-793 

13 

9 

3,1 C2 2 

0 

Deposit- V B.C.C. Bark Lid. 

3.530 

4 

6 



Other Gove. S dr end & Scholar- 






ship 

3,747 

12 

9 

1,99.91? 4 

3 


2.-20,747 

9 

9 

5,37,007 8 

0 

Total- Pall 1 Samgathan Yibhaga 

7,48,907 

15 

6 

35,07.145 3 

8 

Total- -General Office ■ Santinihetanl 

-28,61,631 

8 

8 

5)37,09’ s 

0 

Total Palh Samgathana Yibhaga 

’7,48,907 15 

6 



Clo-me Bark Balance* ' 




6,50.39-' 9 

$ 

State Bank of India. Bolpur 

96,893 

8 

4 

2,770 12 

9 

do. Calcutta 

9,87,438 

11 

2 

M3. 522 n 

X 

do. Shambazar 

2,181 

9 

9 



do. A c. 2 Calcutta 

1,35,99 9 

0 

0 

12, .90-0 12 

6 

L T nited Bank ot India, Ltd., 




1,654 1 

6. 

Bolpur . 

21,282 

12 

0 

2,001 - 

5 

do. Dharmatoia 

2,326 13 

11 



do. P.S.V.A'c 

706 

1 

3 

48,57,368 0 

7 

Grand Teta 

48,57,368 

0 

7 


O' 


S (ii)J TliE GAzllTI £ OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 19C0/MAGHA 3 , 1881 



Receipts 

Descriptor of Receipts 


Sale (including Agency Publications) 
Purchased books, Government 
Publications 

Hindi 

Commission on agency Publications 
Discount on Purchased books 
CommtssiorL on Miscellaneous Roy- 
alty 

Commission on Govt- Publications . 
Interest 


Postage (see cortral : 


General 

Hindi 

Packing (see contrai : 
General - 
Hindi 
Assam 


PtiHLBHiKtj Department 

Receipts ani Payments Statement for the ye >r 1956-57 




Total 




Total 


1 



Rs. As. Ps. 

PAYMENTS 



Rs. As. 

Ps. | 




Description of Paymer A 





j 




Pacer ...... 



1,12,984 

I 

9 , 




Printing 



56,800 

3 

0 

6>20466 12 

9 


Binding ..... 



35,519 

0 

9 1 

451 12 

0 

6,20,918 8 9 

Drawing, Lettering, and Photographs 



215 

0 

0 

‘ * 

— 

3,236 2 6 

Editing & Proof-reading 

Last year s Liabilities f Outstanding 




10 

0 1 

M 



2,871 15 6 

cost of Paper. Printing, Binding 
and other liabilities') 



3 7,063 

8 

6 , 



56 c 6 

Purchased books 



11,753 

10 

£ 1 



4i~ 4 6 

63 12 9 

Agency Publications - 
Sales Tax . . . 



3,015 

7 

6 

„ i 



Government Publications 



417 

A 

6 

1 




Royalty : 






2,286 12 

9 


(a) R.N. Tagore & Other Authors 

41,889 8 

9 




7 3 

0 

2-293 15 9 

Hindi ... 

27 6 

6 





— 


My Boyhood Das s • 

1X2 0 

0 

42.028 

15 

3 | 

519 4 

6 


(b) Contr. to General Office : 






0 9 

0 


(I; Towards sale of books 

47,018 13 

9 

65,000 



91 5 

0 

6S1 2 6 

(II) From Appropriation A'c. 

17,981 2 

3 

0 

0 1 




Commission (on sa’es) : General . 

1,19*60 9 

11 



i 




Hindi ..... 

102 2 

9 

' 1,19^62 

12 

8 I 




Packing (see contra > 



1,184 

1 

9 




Freight ..... 



997 

5 

9 1 




Cartage & Coolv 



309 

1 

9 


THE GAZtlTfc Ol INDIA : JANUARY S>3, lOGO/MAGHA 3, 1881 t^ar U 



Publicity & Advertisement 
Advertisement 

Publicity .... 

Catalogue & Price list 
Text book Publicity ( inclusive , 

Advt. Honorarium, travelling, 
postage, approval fees; . 

Salary . . . - 

Dearness allowance - . 1 

Enhanced Dearness allowance - f 
Personal allowance 
Special allowance 
Temporary appointment during 
rush season 

Appointment in Leave vacancy 
Honorarium to Adhyaksha 
Contr. to Prov. Fund 
Medical Aid .... 

House Rent .... 

.Municipal Tax 
Electric charges k . 

Trade & Signboard Licence 
Telephone calls 
Insurance (Fire etc.) 

Postage (see contra) . 

Forms and Stationery (inclusive 
of paper, printing, binding 
of cashmemos. ledger books) . 

Contingency & Sundry expenses 705 7 3 

Revenue stamp ... 24 5 o 

Bank charges .... 

Contr. to V.B. Sammilani 
Contr. to Office canteen 
Uniforms 

Travelling and Conveyance 
Tram and Bus fare • 

Motor Vehicle Maintenance : 

Oil and Lubrication 

Repairs and Replacement 

Motor Insurance 

Motor Tax .... 


5,354 4 3 |‘ 


5,354 

4 

3 

43^ 

10 

0 

1,721 

1 

0 

1,390 

1 

6 

65,125 

10 

3 

24,729 

8 

3 

19,38' 

8 

9 

565 

0 

0 

i,m 

5 

6 

1,95-2 

4 

6 

3,300 

0 

0 

5,340 

3 

0 

506 

15 

0 

2,888 

0 

0 

1,553 

5 

6 

1,331 

13 

9 

337 

0 

0 

1,663 

3 

0 

2,542 

6 

0 

4,027 

6 

0 

4,179 

14 

3 

729 

12 

3 

122 

3 

9 

606 

0 

0 

4,316 

0 

0 

483 

6 

0 

27 

0 

6 

200 

JO 

9 


I ,S20 

2 

O 

2,126 

6 

9 

4x6 

6 

0 

148 

0 

0 


tec. 3 (H)] tme .gazette or India : January 23, i 960 /magma 3, iesi 



Publishing 



v'ear 1956-57 — Canid. 


o 


Total 


Payments 

Description of Pay men a 

Rs. As. 

Ps. 

Works & Buildings 

Repairs to Buildings i Lalban and 

Santiniketan Bldgs, i 

2D 7 

0 6 

Electric Installations 



Upkeep and Maintenance 

602 

3 6 


809 

4 0 

Library 

Subscription to Journals^' and 

Periodicals .... 

54 

8 0 

Binding of Libran books and 

Magazines .... 

95 

12 0 


150 

4 0 


1 


tttfc &Azi!MA; oi' INDIA: jANtiARV 23 , Jsdo/MA&HA i i&ii jj 


Yisva-Bharati Patrixa 

Receipts and Payments Statement for the year 1956 - 5 ? — Contd. 


Receipts 

Description of Receipts 

Total 
Rs. As. 

Ps 

Payments 

Description of Payments 

Total 
Rs. As. 

Ps. 

SundsV Receipts 



Sundry Expenses 




'Subscription, Sale etcO 




Paper . 

2.-72 

II 

0 

Saks ..... 

2,616 

0 

O 

Printing ..... 

2 569 

0 

0 

Subscription .... 

50 $ 

O 

O 

Binding .... 

3°3 

7 

0 

Advert riemeni 

v 672 

4 

0 

Block ..... 

441 

5 

3 

Postage (see contra J . 

174 

0 

0 

Drawing and Lettering 

25 

0 

0 

Packing ..... 

I 

I 

0 

Honorarium to contributors 

717 

8 

0 





Postage (see contra) - 

374 

14 

6 





Packing ..... 








Freight ..... 

IO 

2 

6 





Forms and Stationeries 

164 

I 

3 





Contingency .... 



C 





Revenue Stamps 








Advertisement & Publicity 









Allowances .... 


0 

0 





Bank charges .... 









Cartage & Cody 

9 

8 






Tram and Bus fare - 


6 

6 





Commission on sales 

207 ra 

0 





Commission on Advertisements . 

99Q 

12 

9 





Last year’s Labilities 

371 

0 

0 


83971 

5 

0 


9-87? 

14 

0 

Advance & Deposit etc. 




Deposit & .Advance etc. - 




Deposit .... 

72 

13 

9 

Deposit .... 

86 

3 

3 

Subscription in Advance 

490 

8 

0 

Subscription in Advance 

-43 

4 

O 

Last Year’s Receivable 




Postage in Advance 

62 

0 

c 

Outstanding Advertisements . 

2,354 

0 

0 

Imprest .... 

17 

IS 


Sundry Debtors . 

5 

I 

0 





Appropriation a/e. 

20 

0 

0 






2,942 

6 

9 


409 

6 

'6 


Sec. S (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 23, 196Q/MAGHA 3, 1881 



VlSVA-B HARATI P.ATR1KA 


Receipts & Payments Statement for the year 1956-57 — Canid. 


Receipts 

Total Payments 

Total 


Rs. As. Ps- 

Rs. AS- PS 

'Ascription of Receipts 

Description of Payments 







Capital Expenditure 










Furniture & Equipments 



3-849 1? 

6 





Blocks .... 



1,438 

IO 

3 





Purchase of Copyright 



3,uo 

0 

0 





Library books 

Addition to Depreciation Fund 



240 

9 

9 





Investment 



3 , 5 S 6 

10 

0 





Appropriation a,'c. 

Less : Returnofbooks adjusted 

672 0 

I 








with Sundry debtors . 

222 5 

9 

449 

9 

4 





Repayment of Loan to General 










Office .... 



2,500 

0 

0 








20,175 

6 

10 

Non -Revenue Contra -Items 




Non-Revenue Contr. Items 






(Advance & Deposits) 




{Advance & Deposits) 






Advance .... 


3-999 1 

3 

Advance 



4-057 

2 

6 

Suspense .... 


17 15 

9 

Suspense .... 



92 

7 

0 

Imprest .... 


97 12 

3 

Imprest .... 

Advance Royalty . 



117 

7 

3 

Advance Royalty 


11,791 13 

6 






Deposit .... 




Deposit .... 



24-774 

15 

0 

MisceUaneousRoyaity . 




Deposit : Sale proceeds of 






Sales Tax (see contra) : 




Mahatma Gandhi . 



296 

9 

3 

General 

12,988 6 6 



Deposit : Sale proceeds of 






Ilindi .... 

293 

12,990 15 

9 

Portraits 

Sales Tax (see contra) : 



48 

4 

0 














General 

7 .- 7 I 9 13 

0 








Assam .... 

5 4 15 

6 

-.- :4 

12 

6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY US', 19G0/MACHA X 1881 [Part It 



Sundry Debtors 

(Last year’s a/c.) . 63,071 11 9 

Less : for Return ofbooks 222 6 9 

Deposit : Sale proceeds of 
Mahatma Gandhi 
Interest on Fund account 
Appropriation a/c. 

Prepaid Expenses . 


Prepaid expenses etc. . 

62,849 5 o 


82 7 6 
518 8 o 
400 
1,739 13 o 

94,091 12 o 


2,064 11 0 
39,226 4 6 



M,c. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 



Receipts 

Description of Receipts 


Opening Cash at Bank and in 
Hand 

State Bank of India 
United Bank of India, CoHeae 
Street . 

United Bank of India, Jorasanko 
Uni ted Bank of India, Bolpur 
United Bank of India, College 
Street (A/c. Patrika) . 

United Bank of India, College 
Street (A/c. Hindi; . 
Pioneer Bank(in liquidation), 
Bolpur .... 
Calcutta Commercial Bank 
(in Liquidation) 

Cash and Cheques in hand 


Publishing Department & Visva-Bharati Patrika 
Receipts & Payments Statement for t he year 1956-57, — emtd. 


Total 
Rs. , a. p. 


Payments 

Description of Payments 


1U+U64 7 1 


9*603 14 
7.318 10 
1,029 14 


2,912 10 9 

1,944 10 10 

323 o 9 

510 10 6 
5,049 3 o 


Closing Cash Balance 

Deposit with Artha-Sachiva . 
State Bank of India 
United Bank of India, College 
Street 

Uni ted Bank of India, Bolpur . 
Pioneer Bank(inliquidation) . 
Calcutta Commercial Bank 
fin liquidation) 

United Bank of India, College 
Street 1 Av Patrika') 


1, S3, 


2 3 


<1 iv, 1 , r 


Cash & Cheques in hand 


Total 

Rs. A. P. 1 


1,35,999 ° o 
91,832 8 10 

25,614 7 8 
882 12 6 
323 o 9 

510 10 6 

6.607 3 9 


8,874 S 9 


1,98,644 4 9 


9,19,851 8 9 


474 THE GAZETTE OF INBIA : JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Paat If 



Provtdfnt Finp A/<- 


Incomt and Expenditure A ! c for the year 1956-57 


Expenditure 



Income 




Rs. a. 

P. 


Rs. A. 

P 

To Contingency . 

327 1 

O 

By Interest on Loan 

1*467 12 

0 

ToIncomeTax 

2,047 8 

O 

By Interest on Investments on 





Govt. Papers 

25,903 4 6 


- 



On Howrah Bridge Loan 

243 12 0 26,147 0 

6 

To Profit carried over to Balance 



By Mi sc. Receipt s . 

3,772 2 

0 

Sheet .... 

29,012 5 

6 

r 




3 G 386 14 

6 


31,386 T4 

6 






i 


4 * 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY ZBt, 1960/MAGHA S, 1881 



Provident Fund A/c. 

Receipts & Payments Statement for the year 1956-57 — contd. 


~-i 

O, 


Receipts 


Payments 





Rs, a. p. 


Rs. 

A. 

P, 

Deposit .... 

3*930 12 6 

Investments (Govt, papers) . 

29,617 

3 

O 

Lapse Fund 

2*336 9 3 

Members’ Fund . 

8,365 

I 

6 

Advance .... 

38,744 7 o 

Deposits 

10,328 

I 

0 

Suspense .... 

1,158 11 6 

Lapse Fund 

528 

5 

0 

Members’ Subscription. 

67,696 10 0 

Advance .... 

44,264 

0 

0 

Visva-Bharati Contr. 

68,733 2 0 

Suspense .... 

1,158 

it 

6 

Interest on Loan 

1,467 12 0 

Contingency 

327 

I 

0 

Misc. Receipts 

3,772 2 0 

Income Tax 

2,047 

8 

0 

Interest on Investment . 

26,147 0 6 






2,13,987 2 9 


1,96,635 

15 

0 

Opening Balances at Banks 


Closing Balances at Banks 




Stale Bank of India, Bolpur 

7,702 3 9 

State Bank of India. Bolpur . 

7*217 

11 

0 

State Bank of India, Calcutta . 

33,284 3 3 

State Bank of India, Calcutta . 

5 i*H 9 

15 

9 


40,986 7 0 


58,337 

10 

9 


2,54*973 9 9 


2 , 54,973 

9 

9 


[No, Act./ 151 7/ 59-60.] 
S. C. CHAKEAVARTY, 
Registrar, 
Visva-Bharati University. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVT, OF INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGES OF PUB) ICATIONS, DELHI, 1960 


the GAZETTE or INDIA :JAN_ 23, 1960/MAG HA 3, 1881 [Part 11-Sfc. 3(ii)] 



