TAITEET posto ( ) - 73 


REGISTERED NO . D (D )-73 


717242 


1 


111IBR IL 


. . 


! ! 


मन्यमेव जयते 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशिम 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


--- - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- - - - - -- - - 


LUM 


po 39 ] 
No. 39 ] 


af famet, viftar , f er 24 , 1977 /aftura 2 , 1899 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977 /ASVINA 2 , 1899 


- - - 


- - 


- - - 


-- 


इस भाग में गिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या वो जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके 
Separate paging is given to this part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation 


PART II — Section 3 – Sub - section (i ) 
(रक्षा मंत्रालय को छोड़कर) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयों और (संघ राज्य क्षेत्र प्रशासनों को छोड़कर) 

केन्द्रीय प्राधिकारियों द्वारा जारी किये गए मांविधिक मावेश और अधिसूचनाएं 
Statutory Orders and Notifications issued by the Ministries of the Government of India 

( other than the Ministry of Defence ) by Central Authorities 

( other than the Administrations of Union Territories ) 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 7th September, 1977 
9 . 0 . 2939 . — In pursuance of rule 6 of the Disputed Elections 
(Prime Minister and Speaker ) Rules, 1977, the Election Com 
mission hereby publishes the order dated 20 August, 1977 
of the Authority constituted under the Disputed Elections 
(Prime Minister and Speaker ) Act, 1977 in election petition 
No. 1 of 1977 Aled before it by Shri Jashwant Chauhan calling 
in question the election of Shri Morarjibhai Ranchhodjibhai 
Desai, the Prime Minister, to the Lok Sabha from Surat par 
liamentary constituency in Gujarat. 


two candidates withdrew , lcaving the petitioner and respon 
dents No . 1 to 3 as the sole contesting candidates . The poll 
took place on 19 March , 1977 and the result was declared on 
20 March , 1977 . The votes secured by thc contesting can 
didates were 1, 84, 789 for the petitioner, 2 , 06 , 162 for the first 
respondent, 1 , 263 for the second respondent and 835 for the 
third respondent and since the first respondent secured the 
highest number of votes, he was declared duly elected . Tho 
Janata Party secured a inajority of scats in the Lok Sabha 
and the first respondent having been elected as Leader of 
the Janata Party , was invited to form the Government and 
he was administered oath of office as Prime Minister on 24 
March , 1977 . The pctitioner , who was a defeated candidate , 
presented to the Election Commission on 10 May, 1977 the 
present election petition challenging the election of the first 
respondent. The election petition was presented under the pro 
visions of the Disputed Elections ( Prime Minister and Speaker ) 
Act, 1977 ( Act No. 16 of 1977) which was , in the ineantime, 
passed by Parliament and assented by the President on 18 
April, 1977 . Section 5 of this Act provided , in 60 far as 
materials : 


BEFORE THE AUTHORITY CONSTITUTED UNDER 
THE DISPUTED ELECTIONS (PRIME MINISTER AND 

SPEAKER ) ACT, 1977 

Election Petition No. 1 of 1977 
Shri Jashwant Chauban 

. . . . Petitioner 

Va. 
Shri Morarjibhai Ranchhodjibhai Desai and 2 others 

.. . . . Respondents 
This election petition challenges the validity of the elecion 
of the first respondent to the Lok Sabha from the Surat 
Parliamentary Constituency in the State of Gujarat. The 
general elections to the Lok Sabha were announced in the 
third week of January 1977 and according to the election 
programme, the last date for filing nominations was 17 Feb 
ruary, 1977 and the scrutiny of the nomination papers was 
fixed on 18 February , 1977 . The petitioner , respondents 
No . 1 to 3 and two others fled their nomination papers 
in time and the nomination papers were found in order, but 
before the date fixed for withdrawal of candidature , the other 


5 . ( 1 ) A petition calling in question any election may be 

presented on one or more of the grounds specified 
in sub -section ( 1 ) of section 100 and section 101 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, to the Elec 
tion Commission by any candidate at such clection 
or any elector within forthy- five days from , but not 
carlier than , the date of election of the returned 
candidate , or if there are more returned candidates 
than one at the election and the dates of their 
election are different, the last of those dates : 


Provided that a petition calling in question the election 

of a person who does not hold the office of Prime 
Minister or, as the case may , as Speaker of the 
House of the People at the time of such election 


80 G1/77 - - 1 


( 3405) 


3406 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977/ASVINA 2 , 1899 


(PART II - SEÇ , 3 (ii )] 


and who is appointed or chosen to that office after 
such election but before the expiry of tho time for 
presèniing such election petition , may be presented 
within fortyfive days from the date on which such 
person was appointed as the Prime Minister of 
chosen as the Speaker of the House of the People . 


Explanation . In this sub -section " elector " means a per 

son who was entitled to voto at the election to which 
the petition relates , whether he has voted at such 

election or not. 
(2 ) A petition shall be deemed to have been presented 

to the Election Commission when it is delivered to 
the Election Commission or to such other offlcer as 

may be appointed by it in this behalf 
( a ) by the person making the petition , or 
(b ) by a person authorised in writing in this behalf by 

the person making the petition . 
(3 ) Every petition shall be accompanied by as many copies 

thereof as there are respondents mentioned in the 
petition and one more copy for the use of the Elec 
tion Commission, and every such copy shall be attes 
ted by the petitioner under his own signature to be 
a true copy of the petition , 


(4 ) At the time of presenting a petition , the petitioner 

sball deposit with the Election Commission in such 
manner as may be prescribed a sum of two thousand 
rupees as security for costs , 


The first respondent obviously did not hold office of Prime 
Minister at the time of his election and hence , according 
to the requirement of the proviso to sub- section ( 1) of section 
5 , the election petition calling in question his election should 
have been presented within 45 days from the date on which 
he was appointed as the Prime Minister i.c ., within 45 days 
from 24 March , 1977. On this computation , the last date 
for presenting the election retilion expired on 8 May, 1977. 
That was a Sunday and therefore , it was conceded by the first 
respondent, the election petition could have been presented on 
9 May, 1977 but not thereafter and the election petition presen 
ted on 10 May , 1977 was clearly beyond the period specified 
in sub -section ( 1 ) of section 5 . Realising this difficully , the 
petitioner filed an application for condonation of delay in 
prosenting the election petition . There was also prima facie 
ono other non - compliance with the requirement of a statutory 
provision in the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and 
Sneaker ) Act, 1977 and that statutory provision was sub -section 
( 4 ) of section 5 . This sub -section enjoined that the petitioner 
should , at the time of presenting the election petition , de 
posit with the Election Commission A sum of Rs. 2 . 000 as 
security for costs and this deposit should be made " in such 
manner as may be prescribed " . The manner prescribed by 
Rule 8 was that the gum required to be deposited under this 
sub - section " shall be deposited by a crossed demand draft 
drawn in favour of Pay Accounts Officers , Election Com 
mission and payable at the Indian Bank , Connaught Circus , 
New Delhi, and the receipt in evidence of such deposit shall 
be Aled with the Election Commission ." Now the petitioner , 
instead of depositing the sum of Rs. 2 ,000 by a crossed demand 
draft as set out in Rule & , tendered that amount in cash 
to the Election Commission at the time of presenting the 
clocţion petition . The Election Commission refused to accept 
the same sinco that was not in accordance with the requise 
ment of Rule 8 . The petitioner thereupon obtained a crossed 
demand draft for Rs. 2 .000 drawn in favour of Pay and 
Arcounts Officer , Election Commission payable at Indian Bank , 
Connaught Circuis , New Delhi and presented the same to the 
Election Commission on the next day i.c , 11 May, 1977 , 
The petitioner also presented an application for condonation 
of delay in making the security deposit. 


unless the delay of one day was condonable. The petitioner 
contended that by reason of section 29 (2 ) of the Limitation 
Act, 1963, section 5 was applicable to an clection petition and 
hence I had power to condone the delay in filing the election 
petițion and since sufficient cause was shown by the petitioner, 
it was a fit case in which the delay should be condoned . Tho 
first respondent, on the other hand , urged that the Dispuled 
Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker ) Act, 1977 being a 
complete and self- contained code in regard to election petition 
for challenging the election of the Prime Minister, the Limita 
tion Act, 1963 was not applicable to such an election petition 
and section 29 sub -section (2 ) could not, in the circumstances , 
be invoked to attract the applicability of section 5 and in 
any event , even if section 29 sub - section ( 2 ) were applicable , 
section 5 was expressly excluded by the provisions of the 
Disputed Elections (Prinie Minister and Speaker ) Act , 1977 
and consequently , there was no power in me to condone the 
delay in filing the election petition. It must be said in falr 
nces to the first respondent, and this attitude does credit to 
the high position occupied by him , that he merely raised the 
question of lack of jurisdiction to condone the delay and did 
not contend that, if I had such jurisdiction , the delay of one 
day arising on account of marriage of the petitioner s daughter 
on 8 May and the wedding reception on 9 May should not 
be condoned . The sole question which , therefore, arises for 
my determination on this application for condonation of delay 
is whether I have power to condone the delay in presenting an 
election petition which is not filed within the period pres 
cribed by the proviso to sub -section ( 1 ) of section 5 of the 
Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977 . 

To determine this question , it is necessary to refer to a few 
relevant provisions of the Constitution and the Disputed Elec 
tions (Prime Minister and Speaker ) Act, 1977 . Article 329 
provides in clause (b ) which is the only clause material for 
our purpose : 
329. Bar to interference by courts in electoral matters . 

Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution but 

subject to the provisions of article 329 A 
(b ) no election to cither House of Parliament or to the 

House or either House of the Legislature of a State 
shall be called in question excopt by on clcction 
petition presented to such authority and in such 
manner as may be provided for by or under any 

law made by the appropriate Legislature . 
Pursuant to this article , Parliament enacted the Representa 
tion of the People Act, 1951 which sets out in Part VI de 
tailed provisions in regard to election petition calling in ques 
tion an election to the Lok Sabha or to the legislative assembly 
of a State , I am not concerned directly with the Representa 
tion of the People Act, 1951 but it is necessary to refer to 
the same since the relevant provisions in Part VI of that 
Act are in material respects identical with the corresponding 
provisions in the Disputed Elections ( Prime Minister and 
Speaker ) Act, 1977 . Now nrticle 329 clause ( b ), as it originally 
stood , applied to every election to the Lok Sabha , irrespective 
whether the returned candidate whose election was sought to 
be challenged was the Prime Minister or Speaker or an ordi 
nary member. Everyone was regarded as equal before the 
law and there was no discrimination in favour of the Prime 
Minister or Speaker by placing them on a higher pedestal. 
Indeed , it is difficult to see how they could be treated on 
a different footing merely because they happened to be an . 
pointed to these posts after their election as members of the 
Lok Sabha. What would be challenged in the election peti 
tion would be their election as members and not their appoint 
ment 4s Prime Minister or Speaker and in this respect, they 
would be in no different position than other members of the 
Lok Sabha . No special treatment could , therefore , be given 
to them and no apecial procedure prescribed, consistently with 
ous egalitarian ethos. That would clearly be contrary to the 
democratic norms and republican values underlying our Con 
stitution . It would directly offend the principle of equality 
before the law and constitute serious erosion of the rule of 
law . But unfortunately , when the appeal of Mrs . Indira Gandhi, 
the then Prime Minister , againgt the judgement of the Allaha 
bad High Court setting aside her election wag pending before 
the Supreme Court, the Constitution ( Thirty -ninth Amendment) 
Act, 1973 was passed by Parliament with a view to depriv 
ing the Supreme Court of its jurisdiction to hear the appeal 
and virtually placing the Prime Minister above the law appli 
cable to ordinnry mortals. It was reminisent of the days 
when there would be one law for the ruler and another for 
the subjects . The Constitution ( Thirty -ninth Amondment) Act, 
1975 inter alia amended Article 329 by adding the words " but 
subject to the provisiosn of Article 329A " in the opening part 


When the election retition came up before me as the 
Authority constituted under the Disputed Elections (Prime 
Minister and Speaker ) Act, 1977 , I decided to head first the 
two applications for condonation of delay, since it was con 
tended that if either application was not granted , the election 
petition would be liable to be dismissed straight- away and 
there would be no need to examine it on merits. Now it 
is true that according to the requirement of the proviso to 
sub - section ( 1 ) of sertions, the election petition should have 
been presented at the latest on 9 May , 1977 and since it 
was presented on 10 May, 1977, it was liable to be dismissed 
in limine under clause ( a ) of sub -section ( 2 ) of gection 10 , 


[ATT II- -TT 3 ( ii )] 


( TTT 1999 :fe 24 , 1977 /urftar 2, 1899 


3407 


of that article and introduced a New Article 329A making 
special provision for challenging the election to the Lok Sabha 
in case of Prime Minister and Speaker . That article , 80 far 
as material, provides its follows : 
3294 . Special provision as to clections to Parliament in 

the case of Prime Minister and Spcaker. - 1 ) Subject 
to the provisions of Chapter II of Part V [ except 
sub - clausc ( e ) of clalise ( 1 ) of article 102 ], no 

election 
(A ) to either House of Parliament of a person who holds 

the office of Prime Minister at the time of such 
election or is appointel as Prime Minister after 

such election ; 
(b ) to the House of the People of a person who holds 

the office of Speaker of that House at the time 
of such election or who is chosen as the Speaker 

for that House after such election ; 
shall be called in question , except before such autho 
rity ( not being any such authority as is referred to 
in clause (h ) or article 3293 Or body and in such man 
ner as may be provided for by or under any law made 
by Parliament and any such law may provide for 
all other matters relating to doub s auch disputes in 
relation to such lection including the grounds on 

which such election may be questioned . 
( 2 ) The validity of any such law as is referred to in 

clause ( 1 ) and the locision of any authority or body 
under such law shall not be called in question in any 
court. 


(6 ) The provisions of this article shall have effect nor 

withstanding anything contained in this Constitution . 
It appears that the law contemplated in this article was on 
acted by the President by inssuing the Disputed Elections 
(Prime Minister and Speaker ) Ordinance , 1977. (4 of 1977 ) 
but before long, as soon as ihç new Government of India was 
formed after the elections, it was replaced by the Disputed 
Elections ( Prime Minister and Speaker ) Act, 1977. This Act 
by repson of section 1 sub -section ( 2 ) must be deemed to 
have come into force on 3 February , 1977 . Section 3 of this 
Act enacts a mandatory provisions and it says : 
3. No election shall be called in question cxcept by a 

petition presented in accordance with the provisions 

of this Act. 
Section 4 provides that every petition shall be tried by an 
Authority constituted for the purpose by the Cçntral Govern 
ment and the Authority shall consist of a single meinber who 
is a Judge of the Supreme Court to be nominated in this 
behalf by the Chief Justice of India . I am the Au hority 
constituted by the Central Government for the purpose of 
trying the present election petition . Section 5 cnacts provi 
sions in regard to presentation of an election petition . I 
have already referred to them earlier and it is not necessary 
to reproduce them over again . Section 6 lays down an obli 
gatory rule as to who shall be joined as icspondents to the 
clection pctition and section 7 deals with the contents of the 
election petition . Section 9 requires that, as soon as may 
be after the receipt of an election petition , the Election Com . 
mission shall forward it to the authority for trying the election 
petition . Then follows section 10 sub -section ( 2 ) which is 
very important . It reads as under : 
10 . ( 2) The Authority shall dismiss the petition 
(a ) if the petition has not been presented within the 

period specificd in sub -section ( 1) of section 5 ; 
( b ) if the petition does not comply with the provisions of 

sub - section ( 3 ) or sub - coction ( 4 ) of section of sec 
tion 6 . 


and ( 3 ) of section 81, section 86 sub -section ( 1 ) and section 
117 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 with only 
this difference that the forum for trial of an election petition 
under the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister ind Speaker ) 
Act, 1977 is the authority while linder the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951, it is the high Court and whereas tho 
period for filing an election petition under the former Act 
is 45 days from the date of appointment of the returned can 
Jidate as Prime Minister or Speaker, it is 45 days from tho 
date of election under the latter statute . The grounds on 
which the election can be challenged and the procedure for 
trial of the election petition are also the same under the Dis 
puted Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker ) Act, 1977 as 
under the Representation of People Act, 1951 . The decisions 
given by the Supreme Court in regard to the construction of 
the relevant provisions of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1931 would , therefore , obviously be of great relevance 
in the interpretation of the corresponding provisions in the 
Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act , 1977. 

It would be convenient also at this stage to refer to the 
relevant provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963. Section 
3 which is the section invoked by the petilioner provides 
inter alia : 
“ 5 . Ady appeal or any application . . . . . . . . . . .. .may be 

admitted after the prescribed period if the appellant 
or the applicant satisfies the Court that he had suffl 
cient cause for not preferring the appeal or making 

the application within such period " . 
The word " application " which occurs in section 5 is given 
a wide meaning by the definition in section 2 clause ( b ) which 
defines " application " to include a petition. Section 29 sub 
section ( 2 ) is the next relevant section and it reads as follows : 
29 (2 ). Where any special or local law prescribes for any 

suit , appcal or application a period of limitation 
different from the period prescribed by the Schedule , 
the provisions of scction 3 shall apply as if such 
period were the period prescribed by the Schedule 
and for the purpose of determining any reriod of 
limitation prescribed for any suit , appeal or applica 
tion by any special or local law , the provisions con 
tained in section 4 to 24 ( inclusive) shall apply only 
in so far as, and to the extent to which , they are 

not expressly excluded by such special or local law . 
It was by reason of this provision in section 29 sub -section 
( 2 ) that the petitioner contended that section 5 was applicablo 
to the present election petition and the delay of one day in 
filing the election petition was liable to be condoned . 

There are decisions of the Supreme Court which lay down 
in clear and unequivocal terms that when an election peti 
tion is filed beyond the period specificd in section 81 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, the High Court has 
no power to condone the delay in fling the elec ion netition 
and it must be dismissed in limine under section 86 sub - section 
( 1 ) of that Act . The reason given in these decisions is that 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951 heing a com 
plete and self- contained code in regard to ele tion petition 
for challenging an election to the Lok Sabha or the Legislative 
Assembly of a State , it does not admit of introduction of the 
principles or provisions contained in the Limitation Act, 
1963 and hence section 29 yub -section ( 2 ) cannot be invoked 
by a petitioner who is late in filing the election petition and 
in any event, the applicability of section 5 is excluded in case 
of such an election petition . The ratio of these decisions 
would be equally applicable in the construction of the corres 
ponding provisions of the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister 
and Speaker ) Act, 1977 and having regard to those decisions 
which are binding upon me as low declared by the Supreme 
Court, thọ conclusion must be inevitable that the Authority 
has no power to condone the delay , even though it be only 
of one day, in filing an eloction petition under the Disputed 
Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker ) Act, 1977 and the 
election petition must be dismissed without anything more 
under section 10 sub - section ( 2 ) of that Act, But of these 
decisions a little later . I will first approach the question on 
principle and try to arrive at the proper construction of tho 
relevant statutory provisions unhampered by any authority. 

The proviso to sub -section ( 1 ) of section 5 prescribes period 
of 45 days within which an olection petition must be presented 
to the Election Commission , if the clection of a person who 
is appointed as Prime Minister after the election , is to be 
challenged and this period of 45 day , has to be computed 
from the date on which he was appointed as Prime Minister . 


It was on a conjoint reading of Article 329A clause ( 1 ) and sec 
tion 3 , sub -section ( 1 ) of section read with the proviso and 
sub -section ( 2 ) of section 10 tha : the first respondent submitted 
that I had no power to condone the delay in presenting an 
election petition if it was beyond the period specified in : ub 
section ( 1 ) of section S and I wou bound to dismiss it in 
limine. I shall presently consider this question , but before 
I do 5o , I may point out that section 3 , sub - sections ( 1), ( 3 ) 
and (4 ) of section 5 , section 6 and section 10 sub -section ( 2 ) 
are identical ipsissima verba with section 80 , sub -sections ( 1) 


3408 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977 /ASVINA , 2 , 1899 


[ PART II — Sec , 3 ( ii)] 


- 


- - 


- 


The Authority would have power to condono te delay in 
filling the eloction petition beyond the period of 45 days only 
if section 5 of tho Limitation Act, 1963 can be invoked in 
aid by the petitioner. Now , obviously, if section 29 sub 
section (2 ) of the Limitation Act, 1963 applies to an clection 
petition, section 5 would be attracted unless it is expressly 
cxcludod by the provisions of the Disputed Elections (Prime 
Minister and Spcaker ) Act, 1977. The necessary condition 
for the application of section 24 sub- section ( 2 ) is that the 
special law must prescribe for an appiication a period of limi 
tation " different from the period prescribed by the Scheduled " . 
The Disputed Elections (Prinę Minister and Speaker ) Act, 1977 
is undoubtedly a special law and having regard to the wide 
definition of " application " in seciion 2 clause ( b ) an election 
petition would certainly be an " application " . The proviso 
to sub - section ( 1 ) of section 5 manifestly prescribes a period 
of limitation for an election petition and the only question 
is whether this period of limitation can be said to be " different 
from the period prescribed by the Schedule" so as to satisfy 
the roquirement for the applicability of section 29 sub - section 
(2 ). When the Schedule to the Limitation Act, 1963 docs not 
prescribe any period of limitation for an election pe ition , 
can it be said the period of limitation prescribed by the 
Disputed Elections ( Prime Minister and Speaker ) Act, 1977 
is different from the poriod prescribe:1 by the Schedule " ? 
This question is fortunately no longer res integra . It is con 
cluded by the decision of the Supreme Court in V . C . Shukla 
vs . Khub Chand Baghel ( 1964 ) 6 SCR 129 where it has 
been held , following an earlier decision in Kaushalaya Rani 
vs. Gopal Singh ( 1964) 4 SCR 982. that section 29 gib 
Aection (2 ) would be applicable even if no period of limitation 
is prescribed by the Schedule for an application under a spe 
cial law but the special law proscribes a period of limitation 
for such application . Subha Rao J, agreeing with the majority , 
observed in this case : " when the first Schedule of the Limi 
tation Act prescribes no time limit for a particular Appeal, 
but the special law prescribes a time limit to it , con it not 
be gald that under the First Schedule of the Linitation Act 
an appeal can be filled at any timo but the special law by 
limiting it provides for a period ? While the former permits 
the filing of an appeal at any time, the latter limits it to 
the prescribed period . It is, iherefore, different from that pres 
cribed in the former " and concluded by saying : " Section 29 ( 2 ) 
would apply to a case where a difference between the special 
law and the Limitation Act arises by the omission to provide 
for Umitation to a particular proceeding under the Limitation 
Act" . There can , therefore , be no doubt that section 29 sub 
section ( 2 ) would apply in case of an clection potition filed 
under the Disputed Elections (Princ Minister and Speaker) 
Act, 1977, 


is also a comploto and self-contained code in rogard to election 
petition for challenging the election , where the returned call 
didate is Prime Minister or Speaker, The Disputed Elections 
(Prime Minister and Speaker ) Act, 1977 contains elaborate 
provisions setting out as to who shall be he Authority for 
trying the election petition , what shall be the manner of presen 
tation of the clection petition , who sb .i11 be parties to the 
election petition , how the election petition shall be tried by 
the authority , whal shall be the grounds for declaring the clec 
lion void , what shall be the procedure before the Authority in 
cluding payment of security ior costs and execution of orders as 
to costs and what shall be the powers of Authori y in relation 
to the clection petition . The whole law on the subject of 
olcction petition for challenging the elec ion where the returned 
candidate as Prime Minister or Speaker is 10 be found in 
the Disputed Elections ( Prime Minister and Speaker ) Act, 
1977 . The ratio of the decision in K . Venkateswir and ano 
ther vs . Bekkam Narasimha Reddy and other s ( upra ) would , 
therefore , apply with equal force in case of 40 Clection reii 
tion under the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) 
Act , 1977 and the conclusion would be irresis : ible that the Dis 
puted Elections ( Prime Minister and Spcakei) Act, 1977 being 
a complete and self-contained code coes not adorit of introduc 
tion of the priciples or provisions contained in the Linitation 
Act, 1963 and consequently , section 29 ub -section ( 2 ) is not 
applicable to such an clection petition . 


This is the view I would be inclined to take if the question 
were free from authority hinding upon me, but I find that 
there is a decision of the Supreme Court in K . Venkateswar 
and another vs. Bekkam Narasimha Reddy and others ( 1969) 
1 SCR 679 where the view has been taken albeit in regard 
to the Representation of the Pcoplc Act, 1951, that the Limi 
tation Act, 1963 cannot apply to an election petition since the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 is a complete and self 
contained code which does not aclmit introduction of any of 
the principles of provisions contained in the limitation Act, 
1963. The relevant observations of Mitter ) , in this connection 
may be quoted as follows : 


Of course I must confess atonce that I am not at all sure 
whether the aforesaid view taken in K . Venkateswar and ano 
ther v. Bekkam Narasimha Reddy and others represents the 
correct law on the subject. I do not see how the applicability 
of section 29 sub - section ( 2 ) can be excluded when ihe con 
ditions of that sub -section wre satisfied and that sub - section 
says in so many terms that for the purpose of determining 
any period of limitation prescribed by the special law , the 
provisions contained in Sections 4 to 24 shall apply except 
in so far as they are expressly excluded by the special law . 
Moreover, if the Representation of the People Act, 1951 ls 
a complete and self -contained code cxcluding together the 
applicability of the provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963 , 
it is difficult to see how section 12 of thc Limitation Act, 
1963 could be invoked in V . C . Shukia vs . Khub Chand 
(supra ) for the purpose of computing the period of limitation 
proscribed for an appcal linder section 116A sub -section ( 3 ) 
of that Art and section 4 and 12 of the Limitation Act, 1963 
could be availed of in D . P . Misra vs . K . N . Sharma ( 1971 ) 
1 SCR 8 for bringing an appeal filed under section 116A , 
sub -section ( 1) within the period of limitation . The Supreme 
Court in fact pointed out in D , P . Misra vs . K . N . Sharma 
that in V . C . Shukla vs . Khub Chand the Court " was inter 
preting section 29 ( 2 )" and it was hell " thai in the absence of 
any express provision to the contrary contained in the special 
statute, the provisions of the Indian Limitalion Act, 1908 con 
tained in section 4 and sections 9 to 18 and 22 shall apply 
to the extent to which they were not excluded by any special 
or local law " . The Supreme Court observed in so many terms 
that " by virtue of section 29( 2 ) of the Limitation Act, Sections 
4 and 12 thereof apply and if the appeal is filed on the dato 
on which the court reopens after the recess , it will be regarded 
As within time, if the period of limitation , after taking into 
account the time requisite for obtaining a certified copy, had 
expired during tho course of the recess " . It will , therefore , 
bo scen that section 29 , sub section ( 2 ) was held applicablo 
by the Supreme Court in D . P . Misra vs . K . N . Sharma in 
case of an appeal under section 116A , sub -yection ( 1 ) of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 and the decision in 
V . C . Shukla vs . Khuh Chand was also explained on the 
footing that Section 29, sub - section ( 2 ) was applicable . This 
would seem to support the view that section 29 , sub - section 
( 2 ) is applicable to an election petition under the Disputed 
Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker ) Act, 1977 and the only 
question can be whether anyone or more of sections 4 to 
14 are expressly excluded by the provisions of that Act. But 
in view of the decision in K . Venkateswat and another vs . 
Rekkam Narasimha Reddy and others which is more in point 
since it was concerned directly with the question of condong 
tion of delay in filing an election petition , though under the 
Representation of tho People Act, 1951. I do not think it 
would be proper for me to hold that section 29, sub - section 
( 2 ) has application in case of an election petition . If that 
be so , then obviously section 5 cannot be invoked 10 condone 
the delay in filing the election petition 


" The Indian Limitation Act of 1963 is an Act to con 

solidate and amend the law of limitation of suits 
and other proceedings and for purposes connected 
therewith . The provisions of this Act will apply 
to all civil proceedings and some special criminal 
proceedings which can be taken in a court of law 
unless the application thereof has been excluded by 
any enactment : the extent of such application is 
govorened by section 25 ( 2 ) of the limitation Act. 
In our opinion however the Limitation Act cannot 
apply to proceedings like an election petition 
Inasmuch as the Representation of the People Act is 
a complete and self- contained code which docs not 
admit of the introduction of the principles of the 
provisions of law contained in the Indian Limitation 
Act" . 


Now if the Representation of the People Act. 1951 is a com 
plote and self -contained code in regard to election petition 
for challenging an election to the Lok Sabha or the legisla 
tive assembly of a State , it must follow a fortiorary that the 
Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker ) Act, 1977 


However, since the state of tho authorities in regard to the 
applicability of section 29, sub - section ( 2 ) to an election peti 
tion is , 88 pointed out above , unsatisfactory , I would proceed 


NTCT T 


[ T Il- -UK 3 (ii) 1 


48 : 


TATT 24 , 1977 / gifer 


3409 


2, 1899 


to discuss the question of condonation of delay in filing an 
olection petition on the Assumption ibat section 29, sub- section 
( 2 ) is applicable to an election petition . Section 5 would then 
be clearly applicable unless it can be said to be expressly 
excluded by the provisions of the Dispuled Electiong (Prime 
Minister and Speaker) Aci, 1977 , Now it is lille that there 
is 00 provision in the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister 
and Speaker ) Act, 1977 which , by specific reference , excludes 
the applicability of section 5 to an clection petition , but, 
in my opinion , it is not neceysary in order to constitute ex 
press exclusion that the Act should make express mention of 
section 5 . What is necessary is that the exclusion must 
appcar plainly from the language used by the legislalure and 
not that it should be left merely to be inferred by implication , 
That is what was pointed out by the Privy Council in 
Shanmugam vs , Commissioner for Registration of Indian and 
Pakistant Residents , 1962 AC 515 which was an appeal from 
Ceylon. There the question was whether ihere was express 
provision in Act No. 45 of 1952 making it applicable to 
pending proceedings and the argument was that since there 
was no specific reference in the Act to pending proceedings , 
it could not be said to contain express provision to that cffcut 
Lord Radcliffc delivering the judgment of the Privy Council 
negatived this argument and observed ; 
" Their Loralships are of the view that it is correct to stale 

that express provision is provision the applicability of 
which docs not arise by inference . The applicability , 
however, of the provision under discussion to the 
present caso does not arise by inforence ; it arises 
directly from the language used . The fact that the 
language used is wide and comprehensive and covers 
many points other than the one imicdiately under 
discussion does not make it possible to say, that its 
application can rise by inference only . To be " ex 
press provision " with regard to something it is not 
necessary that that thing should be specially men . 
tioned ; it is sufficicut that is directly covered by the 
linguage however broad the language may be which 
covers it so long as the applicability arise , directly 
from the language used and not by inference there 
from . The argument fails ." 


The Supreme Court also took the same view in Mohd . Asbafua 
Vs , State Transport Appcllate Tribunal ( 1977 ) 1 SCR 563 where 
the question was whether section 5 was applicable in case 
of an application for renewal of a permit under section 38 , 
sub -section ( 2 ) of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1939 . The proviso 
to sub - section (2 ) of section 58 prescribed a period of Jimita 
tion for making an application for renewal and sub -section 
( 3 ) of section 58 provided that the Regional Transport Autho 
rily may entertain an application for renewal after the last 
dato specified in the proviso if the application is made not 
more than 15 days after the said last date " . There was delay 
on thc part of the petitioner in making an application for 
renewal and the delay was of more than 15 days and the 
question was whether it could be condoned by invoking the 
applicability of section ) . The Supreme Court held that the 
provision in sub - section ( 3 ) of section 58 that the Regional 
Transport Authority may condone the delay in making of an 
application for rencwal and entertain it on merits, provided 
the delay is of not more than 15 days, constituted on express 
provision that the delay in making an application for renewal 
shall be condonable only if it is of not more than 15 days 
And that expressly excluded the applicability of section 5 in 
Cases where an application for renewal is delayed by more 
than 15 days. Here there was no special mention of section 
5 in any provision of the Act but the language used in sub 
section ( 3 ) of section 58 was sufficiently clear to exclude the 
applicability of that section . The exclusion of section $ did 
not arise by inference but it was the direct effect of the 
language used in the statute . It is in the light of this principle 
of interpretation that I must proceed to consider whether 
Section 5 is expressly excluded by the provisions of the Dis 
puted Elections (Prime Minister and Spcaker ) Act, 1977 . 


to appeal from an order of acquittal wi hin the time limit of 
60 days prescribed in sub - section ( 4 ) of section 417 of the 
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 . Section 417 , sub -section 
( 4 ) provided that no application for grant of special leave to 
appeal from an order of acquillal shall be entertained by the 
High Court after the expiry of 60 days from the date of the 
order of acquitta ). The language of this provision wag man 
datory and compulsive and debaired the High Court from 
entertaining an application for special leave, if it was beyond 
the time limit provided by it. And yet the Supreme Court 
held that section 5 could not be said to be cxcluded by this 
peremptory and imperative language. The Supreme Court 
poinicd out that such would be language of every provision 
prescribing a period of limitation and it is becalisca bar 
against entertainment of an application beyond the period of 
limitation is created by a special or local law that it becomes 
necessary to invoke the aid of section 5 in order that the 
application may be entertained despite such bar . I have, 
therefore , no doubt, that if the matter regled merely on the 
provision in scction 10 , sub - section (2 ), it would not have 
been possible to hold that section 5 was expressly excluded . 
Bu article 329A clause ( 1 ) provides in terin3 clear and explicit 
that no election to either House of Parliament of a person who 
is appointed as Prime Minister after such election , shall be 
callcd in qucstion , cxccpt before such Authority or body and 
in such manner as may be provided for by or under any 
law made by Parliament. This constitutional injunction is re 
poated in section 3 of thc Disputed Elections (Prime Minister 
and Speaker ) Act, 1977 which provides that " no clection shall 
be called in question except by it petition presented in accor 
dance with the provisions of this Act" . The combined effect 
of article 329 A clause ( 1) and section 3 , the proviso to sub 
section ( 1 ) of section S and section 10 , sub- section (2 ) is that 
if an cloction petition is not presented to the Election Com 
mission within 45 days from ihe date on which the returned 
candidate was appointed as Prime Minister, his election to 
Parliament cannot be called in question . That is a constitu 
tional as well as a legislative mandate and it expressly excludes 
the applicability of section 5 of the Limitation Act, 1963. If 
ficction 5 were held to be pplicable , the result would be that 
an election can be called in question even though the election 
petition is not presented within the time specified in the pro 
viso to sub -section ( 1 ) of section 5 i.e . in the manner provided 
in the Disputed Elections ( Prime Minister and Speaker ) Act, 
1977 or in accordance with the provisions of that Act. Such 
a result would be directly contrary to the express constitutional 
prohibition contained in article 329A clause ( 1 ) and legislative 
prohibition contained in section 3 of the Act. There is, there 
fore , no doubt that article 329A clause ( 1 ) and section 3 , the 
proviso to sub -section ( 1) of section 5 and section 10 , sub 
section (2 ) expressly exclude the applicability of section 5, 
for condonation of delay in filing the election petition . 

This view which I am taking is clearly in accord with the 
presumed intention of Parliament. When the Representation 
of the People Act , 1951 was originally enacted , the procedure 
prescribed was that an election petition should be presented to 
the Election Commission and sertion 85 required the Election 
Commission to dismiss the election petition if the provisions 
of sections 81, 83 or 117 were not complicd with . But there 
was & proviso to section 8 .5 which conferred power on the 
Election Commission to condone the delay in presenting an 
clection pctition if it was satisfied that sufficient cause existed 
for the failure of the petitioner to present the election petition 
within the prescribed time limit . This power to condone the 
delay in presenting an election pctition was , however , taken 
away by the substitution of a new proviso by cction 48 of 
Act 27 of 1956 . Thercafter , extensive amendments were made 
in the Representation of the People Act, 1951 on several occa 
sions, but the power to condone the delay in presenting an 
election petition was not svecifically restored . The Supremo 
Court, in K . Venkateswar and another vs . Bekkan Narsimha 
Reddy and others, pointedly drow the attention of Parliament 
to the fact that whereas in the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 as originally enacted, discretion was given to the 
Election Commission to entertain an election petition presented 
beyond the prescribed tinie limit no such saving clai190 wat 
to be found in the Act as it stood in August 1968 when this 
case was decided . Mitter J. speaking on behalf of the Court 
went on to add : 
" The legislature in its wisdom has made the observance 

of certain formalities and provjxions Obligatory and 
failure in that respect can only be visited with a 

dismissal of the petition ." 
Though certain amendments were made in the Representation 
of the People Act , 1951 even after the decision in K . Venka 
teswara Rao and Another vs. Bekkam Narasimha Reddi and 


Now one thing is certain that a inere provision in section 
10 , sub -section ( 2 ) that the Authority shall dismiss the elec 
tlon petition , if it has not been presented within the period 
specified in sub- section ( 1 ) of section is not sufficient to 
exclude the applicability of section 5 . The Supremc Court 
nointed out in Mangu Ram vs. Municipal Corporation ( 1976 ) 
2 SCR 260 that " mere provision of peiiod of lipitation in 
howsoover peremptory or imperative language is not sufficient 
to displace the applicability of section " . The question that 
arose in that cage way whether section 5 was available to an 
applicant who failed to prefer an application for special loave 


3410 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977 /ASVINA 2 , 1899 


(Part II — Sec . 3( ing] 


latter statute are , in material respects , identical with thoso 
of the former and the two Acts are also in pari materia , the 
ratio of these decisions would apply with equal force and hence 
it must be held that section 5 has no application to an election 
petition under the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and 
Speaker ) Act, 1977 . This result may appoar to be harsh and 
unjust, but, as pointed out by Mitter J ., in K . Venkateshwara 
Rao and Another vs . Bekkam Narasimha Reddi and Others it 
is " a matter which can be set right only by the legislature " . 
The appeal in cases of this kind must be to the legislature 
and not to the court. 


others, the power to condono the delay in presenting an elec 
tion petition was not restored to the Election Commission or 
the High Court. This position was noticed and commented 
upon by the Supreme Court in H . N . Yadav vs. L . N . Misra 
( 1974 ) 3 SCR - 381 where Jaganmohan Reddy ) . Speaking on 
behalf of the court said : " Since the above decision in Venka 
teswara Rao s case (supra ) in August 1968, though Parliament 
has made certain amendments in section 8 of the Act in 1969, 
It has not considered it necessary till now to amend the Act 
to confer , on persons challenging an election , benefits similar 
to those available to them under the proviso to the repealed 
section 85 of the Act, for is we venture to think , it did not 
want delays to occur in the disposal of election petitions 13 
in the past" . The omission to introduce a provision 
similar to the proviso to the repealed Section 85 
clearly cvinces the Parliamentary intent not to confer 
the power to condone the delay in the presentation 
of the election petition . Moreover , when Parliament enacted 
tho Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker ) Act, 
1977 , it must be presumed to be aware that there were deci 
sions of the Supreme Court in K . Venkateshwara Rao and 
Another vs . Bekkam Narasimha Reddi and Others and H . N . 
Yadav va, L . N . Missa , where a strict interpretation was placed 
on the relevant provisions of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 and it was held that the applicability of section 5 
was excluded and neither the Elcction Commission nor the 
High Court had power to condone the delay in presenting 
an election petition and the view was expressed that Parlia 
ment had deliberately excluded the power to conclone the delay 
since " it did not want delays to occur in the disposal of 
olection petitions as in the past" . And yet, whilo enacting 
the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977, 
Parliament employed identical language in regard to the pro 
visions prescribing the time limit within which an election 
petition should be presented and the consequences of not doing 
so within the stated time. It is now well settled that if an 
Act of Parliament uses the same language which was used 
in a former Act of Parliament referring to the same subject , 
and passed with the same purpose, and for the same object, 
the safe and well-known rule of construction is to assume 
that the legislature when using well-known words upon which 
there have been well-known decisions, uses those words in the 
sense which the decisions have attached to them . This is, of 
course , not a canon of construction of absolute obligation but 
it is a presumption of some weight " that Parliament intended 
that the language used by it in the subsequent statute should 
be given the meaning which meantiine has been judicially 
attributed to it" . It was polnted out by Griffih CJ. in 
D Emben vs. Pedder 1 Commonwealth Law Reports 91 : : 
" When a particular form of legislative enactment, which has 
received authoritative interpretation , whether by judicial deci 
sion or by a long course of practice , is adopted in the framing 
of a later statute , it is a sound rule of construction to hold 
that the words so adopted were intended by the Legislature to 
bear the meaning which has been so put upon them " . The 
language of the relevant provisions of the Disputed Elections 
( Prime Minister and Speaker ) Act , 1977 must, therefore, bear 
the same interpretation which has been put upon identical 
provisions in the Representation of the People Act, 1951 by 
the aforeşald decisions of the Supreme Court and it inust be 
held that section 5 is excluded in its application to an election 
petition presented under the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister 
and Speaker) Act, 1977 and the Authority has no power to 
condono the delay, even though it be only of one day , in 
presenting the clection petition . If Parliament intended to 
confer such power on the Authority , it would have enacted 
an appropriate provision similar to the original proviso to 
the repealed section 85 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 , Parliament having deliberately vmitted to do so , 
no power to condone the delay can be imported in the provi 
sions of the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker ) 
Act, 1977 . 


There is , therefore , no escape from the conclusion that as 
the Authority under the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and 
Speaker) Act, 1977 I have no power to condone the delay 
in presentation of the election petition against the Arst respon 
dent, even though the delay is only of one day and the petition 
er is possibly in a position to show that he had sufficient cause 
for not presenting the election petition in time. The applico 
tion for condonation of delay in presenting the election peti 
tion must accordingly , be rejected and the election petition 
must be dismissed in limino under section 10 , sub- section (2 ) 
of the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 
1977. On this view , it becomes unnecessary to consider whe 
ther there was non - compliance on the part of petitioner with 
the requirement of sub -section ( 4 ) of section 5 and if so , 
whether the delay of one day in depositing the security for 
costs under sub -section ( 4 ) of section 5 could be cordoncd . 

In the result, I reject the application for condonation of 
delay in presenting the election petition and dismiss the elec 
tion petition with costo . 
Dated , New Delhi, 
August 20 , 1977 . 

P . N . BHAGWATI, J. 

[No. 82 /GJ / 1 /(PM ) / 77 ] 
V . NAGASUBRAMANIAN , Sécy . 


विधि , न्याय और कंपनी कार्य मंत्रालय 

(satu fani ) 
af famount, sforter , 1977 

नोटिस 
PTOHTO 2940 . - - IMT, ita satu forth ( 

F AST REH ), 
1956 के नियम 6 के अनुसार , सक्षम प्राधिकारी द्वारा सूचना दी जाती 
* # 3 # Erfirit of a gosto mit , gratuit q - 2 / 240 , 
जनकपुरी नई दिल्ली ने उक्त नियमों के नियम 4 के अधीन , दिल्ली में 
लेख्य प्रमाणक ( नोटेरी ) का काम करने की नियुक्ति के लिए आवेदन-पत्र 


2. उक्त व्यक्ति की लेख्य प्रमाणक के रूप में नियुक्ति के बारे में यदि 
कोई भापत्तियां हों तो वे इस नोटिस के प्रकाशित होने के चौदह दिन के 
अन्दर नीचे हस्ताक्षर करने वाले को लिख कर भेज दिये जाये । 

[#to 540 22/ 46 /77-7914 ) 


So much on principle, but apart from that, it is quitc clear 
that the decisions of the Supreme Court in K . Venkateshwara 
Rao & Another vs . Bekkam Narasimha Reddi and Others and 
H . N . Yadav Vs . L . N . Misra must compel me to reach the 
same conclusion . These decisions have clearly taken the vicw 
that section 5 has no application to an election petition under 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951 and the High 
Court has no power to condone the velay in fling such elec 
tion petition . It is no doubt true that these decisions were 
given in regard to the interpretution of the provisions of the 
Representation of the People Act , 1951 and, stricily speaking, 
they would not bo binding on me when i am construing the 
provisions of the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and 
Speaker ) Act, 1977 , but since the relevant provisions of the 


MINISTRY OF LAW , JUSTICE AND COMPANY AFFAIRS 

(Departmont of Justice) 
New Delhi , the 5th September , 1977 

NOTICES 
S . O . 2940 . - Notic is hereby given by the Competent 
Authority in pursuan - of rule 6 of the Notaries Rules , 1956 , 
that application has liten made to thc said Authority , under 
rule 4 of the said Rules by Shri N . D . Bali, Advocate 
D - 2 / 240, Janak Puri, New Delhi for appointment as a Notary 
to practise in Delhi . 

2 . Any objection to the appointment of the sail person 
as a Notary may be submitted in writing to the undersigned 
within fourteen days of the publication of this Notice . 

[No. F . 22 /46 /77-JUS) 


[ भाग II - Nण 3 (ii) ] 


भारत का राजपत : सितम्बर 24, 1977/ माश्विन 2, 1889 


3411 


नई दिल्ली, 9 सितम्बर, 1971 


का०मा० 2941. - इसके पारा , लेख्य प्रमाणक नियम ( नोटेरीज हास ) , 
1956 के नियम के अनुसार, मक्षम प्राधिकारी द्वारा सूचना दी जाती 
है कि उक्त प्राधिकारी को श्री पार के गर्ग , एसवोकेट म० नं0 4564 , 
महावीर बाजार क्लोष मारकीट दिल्ली ने उक्त नियमों के नियम 4 के 
अधीन, दिल्ली में लेख्य प्रमाणक ( नोटेरी ) का काम करने की नियुक्ति 
के लिये आवेदन पत्र भेजा । 

उक्त व्यक्ति की लेख्य प्रमाणक के रूप में नियुक्ति के बारे में यदि 
कोई प्रापत्तियां हों तो वे इस नोटिस के प्रकाशित होने के नौवह दिन के 
अन्वर नीचे हस्ताक्षर करने वाले को लिख कर भेज दिये जाये । 

[संख्या 2 2/ 47/ 77 म्याय ] 
पार वासुदेषन , सक्षम प्राधिकारी 


का० आ० 2943 . - - राष्ट्रपति , संविधान के अनुच्छेद 239 के लंड ( 1 ) 
के अनुमरण में , यह निवेश घेते हैं कि मिजोरम मौर अरुणाचल प्रदेश के 
प्रशासक को छोड़कर प्रत्येक संघ राज्य क्षेत्र के प्रशासक ( चाहे वह प्रशासक , 
उप राज्यपाल या मुम्य प्रायुक्त में से किसी भी नाम से ज्ञात हो ) राष्ट्रपति 
के नियंत्रण के अधीन रहते हुए और मागे प्रादेश होने तक , भारतीय तार 
अधिनियम , 1885 ( 1885 का 13 ) की घाग 5 के अधीन राज्य सरकार 
की शक्तियों का प्रयोग मोर कृत्यों का पालन भी करेंगे । 

[यू 11030/8/ 76यू० टी० एल०] 

एम० सी० बख्शी अपर सचिव , 


New Delhi , the 9th September , 1977 


S. 0 . 2941. - - Notice is hereby given by the _ Competent 
Authority in pursuance of rule 6 of the Notaries Rules , 1956 , 
that application has been made to the said Authority, under 
rule 4 of the said Rules by Shri R . K . Garg , Advocate No. 
4564 Mahabir Bazar , Cloth Market, Delhi , for appointment 
as a Notary to practise in Delhi. 

2 . Any objection to the appointment of the said person 
as a Notary may be submitted in writing to the undersigned 
within fourteen days of the publication of this Notice , 

No . F. 22 /47/ 77-Jus ] 
R . VASUDEVAN , Competent Authority 


S. O . 2943 . — In pursuance of clause ( 1 ) of article 239 of the 
Constitution , the President hereby directs that the Administra 
tor of every Union territory , except that of Mizoram and 
Arunachal Pradesh (whether known as the Administrator. the 
Lieutenant Governor or the Chief Commissioner ) shall, subject 
to the control of the President and until further orders , also 
exercise the powers and discharge the functions of State Gov 
ernment under the provisions of section 5 of the Indian 
Telegraph Act , 1885 ( 13 of 1885 ), 

[ U - 11030 / 8 / 76 - UTIL ] 
H . C . BAKHSHI , Under Secy . 


गृह मंत्रालय 


वित्र मंत्रालय 


मई दिल्ली , 5 सितम्बर, 1977 
का० मा० 2042 . -- केन्द्रीय सरकार, नागरिकता नियम , 1956 के नियम 
2 के खण्ड ( ख ) के अनुसरण में इससे उपाय मनुसूची के स्तंभ ( 1 ) 
में विनिर्दिष्ट अधिकारियों को उक्त अनुसूची के स्तंभ ( 2 ) में विनिविष्ट 
सत्रों की माबत उक्त नियमों के अधीन कलक्टर के कृत्यों का निर्वहन करमे 
के लिए नियुक्त करती है । 


( राजस्व और बैंकिंग निमाण ) 

( राजस्व पस ) 


अनुसूची 


अधिकारी 


क्षेत्र 


सहायक कलक्टर 
असीफाबाद 


ईसा गांव पुनर्वास परियोजना , 
जिला मदीलागाव , पान्ध्र प्रदेश । 


- - - - - 


- - 


- 


नई दिल्ली , 29 जून , 1977 

प्रायकर 
का०मा० 2944. -.- सर्वसाधारण की जानकारी के लिए यह अधिचिन 
किया जाता है कि निम्नलिम्बित काक्रम को विहित प्राधिकारी अर्थात् 
विज्ञान और प्रौद्योगिक विभाग , नई दिल्ली ने प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 
की धारा 35 की उपधारा ( 2क ) के प्रयोजनों के लिए अमुमोदित किया 
है, अर्थात् : 
1. परियोजना का नाम : फेरोपसुपर और उसके साधितों का विकास 
2. प्रायोजन कर्ता : मेसर्स ज्योति लिमिटेड . घर केमिकल 

इण्डस्ट्रीज मोवा , 390003 
3. मायोजन का स्थान महाराजा सयाजीराव , बड़ौदा विश्वविद्यालय , 

बड़ोदा 


मि० 26030/ 42/ 77 पाई० सी० ] 
पी० विजयराघवन, प्रवर सचिव 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

Now Delhi, the 5th September, 1977 
S. 0 . 2942 - In pursuance of clause ( b ) of rule 2 of the Citi 
zenship Rules , 1956 , the Central Government hereby appoints 
the officer specified in column ( 1 ) of the Schedule hereto annexed 
to perform the functions of the Collector under the said rules 
In respoct of the arca specified in column (2) of the said Schedule . 

SCHEDULE 


Officer 


Area 


1. मारम्भ की तारीख : जुलाई, 1977 
5. पूर्ण होने की तारीख : जुलाई, 1980 
6 . अनुमानित लागत 3, 00, 000 रु० 

महाराजा सयाजीराव बड़ोदा विश्वविद्यालय , बड़ीवा अधिसूचना 
सं0 1014 ( फा० सं० 203/ 37/ 75 पाई० टी० ए० ) सारीख 2- 8- 75 के 
मनुसार प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 की धारा 35 ( i) ( ii ) के अधीन 
मनुमीवित विश्वविद्यालय है । 

[सं० 1839 ( फा० सं० 203/ 75/ 77 माईटी ए-II) ] 


Assistant Collector, Asifabad 


Isagaon Rehabilitation Pro 
ject, District Adilabad, 
Andhra Pradesh , 


No. 26030/ 42/ 77 -1C] 
P , VIJAYARAGHAVAN , Under Socy . 


3412 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977/ASVINA 2 . 1899 


[ PART II - SEC . 3(ii )] 


natural or applied sciences ( other than Agriculture / 
Animal Husbandry / Fisheries & Medicines, Social 

Sciences or Statistics ). 
( 11 ) That the said University will furnish the annual return 

of its Scientific Research Activițies to the prescribed 
authority for every financial year in such forms as 
may be laid down and intimated to them for this 
purpose, by 30th April, cach year , 


INSTITUTION 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Revenue and Badklog ) 

( Revenue Wing ) 
New Delhi, the 29th June, 1977 

___ INCOME TAX 
S. O . 2944 . - It is hereby notified for general information 
that the following scientific research programme has been appro 
ved for the period specified below for the purposes of section 
(2A ) of Section 35 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 by the prescrl 
bod authority , the Department of Science & Technology , New 
Delhi : -- 
1 . Name of the Project : Development of Ferrofluids 

and their applications. 
2. Sponsored by : 

M /s. Jyoti Ltd ., P .O . Chemical 

Industries, Baroda - 390003. 
3. Sponsored at : 

The Maharaja Sayajirao Uni 

versity of Baroda , Baroda . 
4. Date of Commencement : July , 1977 . 
5. Date of Completion : July , 1980. 
6 . Estimated Cost : 

Rs. 3,00 ,000 . 
The Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda , Baroda is an 
approved University u/s 35 (i)( ii ) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 
vide Notification No. 1014 (F .No. 203/37 /75- ITA . II) dated 
2- 8 - 75 . 

[ No. 1839 ( F. No. 203/ 75 /77-ITA- II)] 


UNIVERSITY OF NORTH BENGAL, RAJA RAMMOHAN 

PUR, Distt . Darjeeling . 
This notification is effective from 1st April , 1977 . 

[ No. 1841( F. No . 203 / 74/ 76 -1TA. II)] 


नई दिल्ली , 8 जुलाई, 1977 


का० मा० 2945. - सर्वसाधारण की जानकारी के लिए अधिमूचिस 
किया जाता है कि विहित प्राधिकारी अर्थात् , सचिव, विज्ञान और प्रौद्योगिकी 
विभाग, नई दिल्ली ने निम्नलिखित संस्था को प्राय कर अधिनियम , 1961 
की धारा 35 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खंड ( ii ) के प्रयोजनों के लिए मन्य 
प्राकृतिक तथा अनुप्रयोगिक विज्ञान के क्षेत्र में निम्नलिखित शतों पर 
पनुमोदित किया है, अर्थात् : -- 
( 1 ) यह कि उत्तरी बंगाल विश्वविद्यालय राजाराम मोहन पुर 

प्राकृतिक या अनुप्रयोगिक क्षेत्र में ( कृषि पशुपालन मत्स्यकी 
पौर औषधि, समाज विज्ञान या सांस्यकी से भिन्न ) वैज्ञानिक 

अनुसंधान के लिए प्राप्त राशियों का हिसाष पृषक से रोग। । 
( 2 ) उक्त विश्वविद्यालय प्रत्येक विसीय वर्ष के लिए अपने वैज्ञानिक 

मनुसंधान सम्बन्धी क्रियाकलापों की एक वार्षिक विवरणी 
विहित प्राधिकारी को प्रप्ति वर्ष 30 अप्रैल तक ऐसे प्ररूपों में 
प्रस्तुत करेगा जो इस प्रयोजन के लिए अधिकथित किए जाएं 
पौर उसे सूचित किए जाएं । 


. का०मा० 2946.---सर्वसाधारण की जानकारी के लिए यह अधिसूचित 
किया आना है कि विहित प्राधिकारी , अर्थात् भारतीय कृषि अनुसंधान 
परिषद् ने निम्नलिखित वैज्ञानिक अनुसंधान कार्यक्रम को प्राय कर अधिनियम , 
1961 की धारा 35 की उपधारा ( 2 क ) के प्रयोजनों के लिए निम्नलिखित 
अवधि के लिए अनुमोदित किया है : -- 
1. वैज्ञानिक अनुसंधान गन्ना उप-स्थान 
कार्यक्रम : 

( शुगर केन -सम -स्टेशन ) 
2. ( क ) प्रायोजन कर्ता : आन्ध्र प्रदेश कृषि विश्वविद्यालय , पौर 

__ मेसर्स के० सी० पी० लिमिटेड 
3. ( ख ) मायोजन स्थाम : पञ्चरु, जिला कृष्णा , प्रा० प्र० 
4. अनुसंधान कार्यक्रम स्थायी प्राधार पर 

की कालावधि : 
5 . अनुमानित व्यय : 5 . 08 लाख १० प्रति वर्ष 

( 1 ) वेतन और मसे : 1, 52, 814 . 00 न० 
( 2 ) प्रावर्ती माकस्मि . 61, 758 . 00 २० 

कताएं : 
( 3 ) अनावर्ती आकस्मि - 2, 93, 500 . 00 स० 

फताएं : 


5, 08, 072. 00 10 
या 5 . 08 लाख ३० 


संस्था 


उत्तरी अंगाल विश्वविद्यालय, राजाराम मोहमपुर जिग्ना दायिक. 
यह अधिसूचना 1 अप्रैल , 1977 से प्रभावी है । 

[ सं० 1841 ( फा० सं० 203/ 74/ 76 माई०टी० ए०II )] 


टिप्पण : - - अनावर्ती के अधीन कुल राशि में से स्कीम के प्रारम्भिक वर्ष 
में भवन निर्माण प्रावि के लिए मेमर्स के० सी० पी० लिमिटेड 2 . 00 लाख 
रु . के राशि का अनुदान देगा । 


S . O . 2945 .- - It is hereby notified for general information that 
tho institution mentioned below has been approved by the 
Secretary , the Department of Science & Technology, New 
Delhi, the prescribed authority for the purposes of clause ( ii ) 
of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 35 of the Income-tax Act, 1961, 
in the area of other natural or applied sciences , subject to the 
following conditions :-- - 


उमके बाद के० सी० पी० लि . द्वारा कोई अनुदान महीं दिया जाएगा । 
प्रान्ध्र प्रदेश कृषि विश्वविद्यालय, हैदराबाद पाय-कर अधिनियम , 1961 
की धारा 35 ( i ) ( ii ) के अधीन इस विभाग की अधिसूचना सं0 878 
( फा० सं० 203/ 39/ 75- माई ० टी० ए० II ) , तारीख 18- 4-1975 द्वारा 
पहले से ही अनुमोवित है । 

[ सं० 1863 ( फा० सं० 203/ 82 / 76 आई० टी० ए०2] 


(i ) that the University of North Bengal, Raja Rammohan 

pur, will maintain a separate account of the sums 
reccived by it for scientific research in the field of 


[ भाग I[ --- 3 ( ii ) 11 भारत का राजपत्र : मितम्बर 24, 1977/ अपियन 2, 1999 

3413 
- : -- -- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - 
New Delhi, the 8th July , 1977 

purposes of clause (ii) of sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 35 of the 

Inconic -tus Act, 1961 on the following conditions : 
S . O . 2946 . - It is hereby notified for general Information that 

1. The Foundation will submit annual reports on the 
the following scientific research programme has been approved 

research activities of the Foundation to the Council. 
for the period specified below for the purposes of the sub -sec 
tion (2A) of Section 35 of the Income -tax Act. 1961 by the pres 

2 . The foundation will submit annual reports about 

donatious received and spent exclusively for scientific 
cribed authority the Indian Council of Agricultural Research , 

Tese: rch in the manner is and when reqnired by the 
New Delhi. 

Council . 


Sugarcane Sub - station, 


INSTITUTION 


1. Scientific Research Pro - 

gramme : 
2. Sponsored ( a) by : 


Andhra Pradesh 

University and 


Agricultural 
M /s K. C. P. 


ALL INDIA HEART FOUNDATION, NEW DEL. HI. 
This notific tion in cffcctive for a period of two years from 
he date of this notification. 

[ No. 1973( F. No. 203 / 87 / 77.ITA. II] 


Ltd . 


3. Sponsored (b ) at : Vuyyuru , Krishna District, A. P. 
4 . Duration of Research On a permanent basis. 

Programme : 
5. Estimated expenditure Rs. 5. 08 lakhs per year. 


Rs. 


(i) Pay and allowances : 
( il) Recurring contingencies : 
( iii) Non-recurring contingencies : 


1, 52 ,814 . 00 

61 , 758 . 00 
2, 93, 500 . 00 


5 ,08,072 . 00 
Or Rs. 5 . 08 lakhs 


NOTE. - Out of the total amount under non -recurring, M / s . 

K . C . P . Ltd . will donate an amount of Rs. 2 . 00 lakhs 
only once during the Arst year of implementation of 
the Schomc towards construction of buildings etc . 
No furthor grants are to be given by K . C . P . Lid . 


का० आ० 2 9 48. -- मर्वसाधारण की जानकारी के लिए यह अधि 
मचित किया जाता है कि निम्नलिखित संस्था को विहित प्राधिकारी , प्रति 
भारतीय ममाज विज्ञान अनुसंधान परिषद ने , पाय -कर मधिनियम , 1961 
को धारा 35 की उपधाग ( 1 ) के खण्ड (II ) के प्रयोजनों के लिए 
निम्नलिखित शो के प्रधान अनुमोदित किया है 

1. इस छूट के अधीन संस्थान द्वारा इकट्ठी की गई निधियों को 
पुजीकृत किया जाएगा और गिने चुने भारतीय विश्वविद्यालयों 
में समाज विज्ञान के क्षेत्र में रीडर -स्तर पर शिक्षा-पनि मंस्थित 
करने में उपयोग किया जाएगा ; 
2. इन निधियों का प्रयोग संस्थान द्वारा, भा० मं० वि० अ० प० के 

परामर्श से गठिन , प्रमिव ममाज णास्त्रियों की ममिति के परामर्श 
में किया जाएगा । इस ममिति में भा० सं० वि० प्र० प० का प्रति 
निधि भी होगा , 
3. संस्थान इस स्कीम के संचालन मंत्रं नो वार्षिक रिपोर्ट भा० से . 
वि०म०प० को प्रस्तुत करेगा , और 
4. संस्थान , यदि चाहे तो , भा० सं० वि० अ० ५० के अनुमोवन मे इन 
शिक्षा-वृत्तियों के लिए निधियों को सम्बद्ध विश्वविद्यालयों को 

प्रबंध और संचालन के लिए अन्नरिन कर मकना है । 
5. संस्थान इस छूट के प्रधान इकट्ठो को गई निधियों का लेखा 

प्रथा से रखेगा। 


The Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University, Hyderabad 
A . P . has already been approved under Section 35( 1)( ii ) of the 
Income Tax Act, 1961 vide this Department s Notification No. 
878 ( F. No . 203/ 39/ 75- ITA, II ) dated 18 - 4- 1975 . 

[ No. 1863 ( E. No. 203 / 82/ 76-ITA. II )] 


का० ( ०. 2947 – पर्वमाधारण की जानकारी के लिए अधिसूचित किया 
जाता है कि विहित प्राधिकारी , अर्थात् भारतीय चिकिन्मा अनुमधान 
परिषद् ने निम्नलिखित मेम्था को प्राय-फर अधिनियम , 1961 की धाग 
35 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के बर (ii ) के प्रयोजनो के लिए निम्नलिखित 
शो पर अनुमोदिन किया है, अर्थात् : - - 


संस्था 
डी० पी० घर मेमोरियल फाउंरेशन ( डी० पी० घर स्मारक संस्थान ) , 
नई दिल्ली 

यह अधिपूचना । अन, 1977 में तीन वर्ष की अवधि के लिए 
प्रभावी रहेगी । 

[मं० 1874 ( फा० सं० 20 3/ 188/ 76-माई टी ए-II ) ] 


___ 1. यह कि मम्थान अपने अनुसंधान मबंधी क्रिया कालाप की वार्षिक 
रिपोर्ट परिषद् को देगा । 

2. सम्थान प्राप्त अनुवानों और केवल बैज्ञानिक अनुसंधान पर हा 
खर्च को वार्षिक रिपोर्ट परिषद् को गेमी गति में और ऐसे ममय पर देगा 
जब और जैमी वह अपेक्षा करे । । 


S . O . 2948. - - It is hereby notified for general information 
that the institulion mentioned below bus been approved by 
The Indian Council of Social Science Research, the prescribed 
authority for the purposes of clausc ( ii ) of sub- section ( 1 ) 
of section 35 of the Income-tax Act, 1961, subject to tho 
following conditions : --- 


मम्या 


प्रान इण्डिया हार्ट फाइग्रेशन , नई दिल्ली 
___ यह अधिसूचना जारी होने की तारीख मे दो वर्ष की अवधि तक प्रभावी 
रहेगी । 

[मं० ] 87 3 ( फा० मं० 2 03/ 87/ 77 आई टी ए Il] 


1. The funds collected by the Foundation under this 

exemption will be capitalized and 116cd for instituting 
followships at the Readers level in the ficld of social 

science in selected Indian Universities. 
2 . These fellowships would be operated by the Founda 

tion on the advice of a Committee of eminent social 
scientists sct up in consultation with the I. C . S . S. R . 
and with the representative of the I. C .S .S . R ., thereon . 


S . O . 2947,-- - It is hereby mouified for general information that 
the institution mentioned below has been approved by Indiani 
Council of Medical Research , the prescribed authority for the 
8 ) GI/ 77 - 2 


3 . The Foundation submits an annual report on the ope 

____ ration of this scheme to the I. C . S . S . R . und 


3414 


THE GAZETTE OFINDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ ASVINA 2, 1899 


[ PART II - SEC . 3(iry 


4 . The Foundation may , with the approval of the 

I. C . S. S. R . transfer the funds for theso fellowships if 
it so desired to the universities concerned , for mana 
gement and operation , 


( राजस्व विभाग ) 

मादेश 
माई दिल्ली , 3 मितम्बर , 1977 


5 . That the Foundation shall maintain separate account , 

of the funds collected by them under the exemption , 


म्टाम्प 


INSTITUTION 
D . P . DHAR MEMORIAL FOUNDATION, NEW DELHI. 

This notification takes effect for a period of three yeurg 
from 1st April , 1977 . 

[ No. 1874 ( E. No. 203 / 188 /76-IMA. II] 


का०मा० 2950. ~- भारतीय स्टम्प अधिनियम, 1899 ( 1899 का 2 ) 
की धारा ७ की उप-बारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( क ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय मरकार, एतद्वारा, उस शुल्क को माफ 
फरती है, जो कर्नाटक राज्य विनीय निगम , मंगलौर , द्वारा दो सौ बीस 
माम रुपये मूल्य के प्रामिसरी नोटों के रूप में जारीकिए जाने वाले बन्ध 
पलों पर उक्त अधिनियम के अन्तर्गत प्रभार्य है । 
[मंसपा 22/ 77-स्टाम्प / फा० संख्या 33/ 61 / 77 विक्री कर] 

पम० डी० रामस्वामो, प्रबर मचिव 


( Department of Revenue ) 

ORDER 
New Delhi , the 3rd September , 1977 

STAMPS 


का०मा० 2949. - सर्वसाधारण की जानकारी के लिए अधिसूमिन 
किया जाता है कि विहित प्राधिकारी, प्रर्थात् भारतीय समाज विज्ञान मनु - 
संधान परिषद् ने निम्नलिखित संस्था को प्राय -फर अधिनियम , 1961 
की धारा 35 की अपधाग ( 1 ) के बण्ड ( UI ) के प्रयोजनों के लिए 
निम्नलिखित शर्तों पर प्रमुमोदित किया है, अर्थात् --- 
(i ) यह कि पंजाब विश्वविद्यालय अण्डीगढ़ ारा इस छूट के अधीन 

संग्रहीत राशियों का उपयोग मात्र समाज विज्ञान के विकास के 

लिए ही किया जाएगा ; 
(ii ) यह कि पंजाब विश्वविद्यालय , पणीगड इस धूर के अधीन प्राप्त 

राणियों का हिमाच पृथक से रखेगा ; 
( iii ) यह कि पंजाब विश्वविद्यालय चण्डीगा छूट के अधीन संग्रहीत 

निधियों की , और बह रीति वर्शित करते हुए जिसमें निधियों 
का उपयोग किया गया है , एक वार्षिक रिपोर्ट भारतीय समाज 
विज्ञान परिषद् को भेगेगा । 


9 . 0 . 2950.----In exercise of the power s conferred by clause 
(a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 
1899 ( 2 of 1899 ) the Contral Government hereby remits the 
duty with which tho bonds in the form of promissory notes 
to the value of two hundred and twenty lakhy of rupees to 
be issued by the Karnataka State Financial Corporation , 
Bangalore, are chargeable under the said Act. 

[ No. 22 / 77 -Stamps- F. No. 33 / 61 / 77- ST 

S. D . RAMASWAMY, Under Secy 


पंजाब विश्वविद्यालय , चण्डीगर 
यह अधिसूचना 1 -4- 1977 से प्रभावी है । 
[ सं० 1875 ( फा० सं० 203/ 30/ 77-प्राई टी ए II ) ] 

जे० पी० शर्मा, उप सघिय 


S . O . 2949.41 is hereby notified for general information 
thul the institution nientioned below has been approved by 
tho Indian Council of Social Science Research , the prescribed 
authority for the purposes of clause (iii) of sub - section ( 1 ) 
of Section 35 of the Income -tax Act, 1961 , subject to the 
following conditions :-- - 


( माविक कार्य विभाग ) 

( किग प्रभाग ) 

मईदिल्ली , 31 अगस्त , 1977 
का० आ० 2951. - कमारी विनियमन अधिनियम , 1949 ( 1949 
का 10 ) की धारा 53 द्वारा प्रदान शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय 
सरकार, भारतीय रिजर्व बैंक की सिफारिश पर , एमद्वारा घोषित करती 
है कि उपर्युक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 4 फी उपधारा ( 1 ) और ( 2 ) 
फे उपबंध 1 मई 1977 से 6 जुलाई, 1977 तक रस्माकर मैक लिमिटेड 
पर लागू नहीं होंगे । 

[ सं० 15 ( 22 ) बी० मो० III/ 77] 

मे० भा० उमगावकर, पबर सचिव 
(Departmeux of Economic Affairs) 

(Banking Division ) 

New Delhi , the 31st August, 1977 
9 .0 . 2951.- -In exercise of powers conferred by section 5 
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ), th 
Central Government, on the recommendation of the Reserv 
Bank of India , hereby declare that the provisions of sul 
sections ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of section 10B of the said Act , shall ne 
apply to the Ratnakar Bank Ltd., from 1st May 1977 to th 
6th July 1977 . 


1. The funds collected by the Punjab University , Chandi 

garh , under thly cxcmption will be utilised exclusively 
for promotion of research in Social Sciences ; 


2. That the Punjab University , Chandigarh shall main . 

tain soparate Accounts of thc funds collected by them 
under the exemption ; 


3 . That the Punjab University , Chandigarh , shall send an 

Annual Report to the Indian Council of Social 
Science Rescarch , New Delhi, showing tho tundy 
collected under the cxemption and tho manner in 
which the funds were utilised . 


INSTITUTION 


[ No . 15( 22)- B. O . III / 7 


THE PUNJAB UNIVERSITY , CHANDIGARH . 
This notification is effective from 1 -4 - 1977 , 

[ No. 1875( F. No. 203 / 30 / 77 .1TA. II] 

J. P. SHARMA, Dy. Secy . 


M . B. USGAONKAR, Under Sec 

नई दिल्ली, 2 सितम्बर, 1977 
का०मा० 2932. - राष्ट्रीयकन जैक ( प्रबन्ध और प्रकीर्ण उपबन्ध ) 
स्कीम , 1970 के बण्ड 8 के उपवाड ( 1 ) के माष पठित बड 34 


[ माग II ---बण ( ii )] 


भारत का राजपत्र : सितम्बर 24, 1977/ माश्विन 2, 1899 


3415 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


उपखंड ( क ) के अनुमरप में , केन्द्रीय सरकार , भारतीय रिजर्व बैंक 
मे परामर्श करने के पश्चात् एतद्वारा श्री सी० ई० कामच की , 3 मिनम्बर , 
1977 से प्रारम्भ होकर 2 मिसम्बर, 1978 को समाप्त होने वाली मौर 
अवधि के लिये फेनरा बैंक के प्रमख निवेशक के रूप में पुनः नियुक्त 
करती है । 


भारतीय रिजर्व बैंक 
( विदेशी मुद्रा नियंत्रण विभाग ) 

केन्द्रीय कार्यालय 

सम्बई, 1 सितम्बर, 1977 
का०मा० 2955. - निम्नलिखित अनुमूची के संभ 2 में दिये गये उप 
मन्धों में से प्रत्येक के अनमरण में रिजर्व बैंक एनद्वारा यह निदेश देता 
है कि उक्त मनुसूची के स्तंभ 2 के प्रत्येक उपबंध के मामने उसके स्तंभ 
3 में उम्लिखित अधिसूचना मिक्किम राज्य में तत्काल लागू होगी । 


[ सं० एफ० 9/ 13/ 77 -बी प्रो I ( 1 ) ] 


New Delhi, the 2nd September, 1977 


अनुसूची 


S. O . 2952. ---In pursuance of sub- clause ( a) of clause 3 . Jeud 
with sub- clause ( 1 ) of clause 8 , of the Nationalised Banks 
(Management and Miscellançous Provisions) Schemo, 1970, the 
Contral Government, after consultation with the Reserve Bank 
of India , hereby re - appoints Sbri C . E . Kamath as tho 
Managing Director of the Canara Bank for a further period 
commencing on 3rd September, 1977 and ending with 2nd 
September , 1978. 

[ No . F. 9 /13 / 77 - BO , I ( 1)] 


कम उपबंध जिसके प्रधीन अधिसूचना लागू की गयो अधिसूचना 
सं० लागू की गयी है 
( 1 ) ( 2 ) 

( 3 ) 


का०० 2933 .--- - राष्ट्रीयकृत बैंक ( प्रबन्ध और प्रकीर्ण उपबन्ध ) 
स्कीम , 1970 के बंड 7 के माग पठिन प 5 के उपखंड ( 1 ) के 
अनुमगण में , केन्द्रीय सरकार, भारतीय रिजर्व मंक से परामर्श करने के 
पश्चात् एनद्वारा श्री सी० ई० कामथ को , जिन्हें 3 सितम्बर , 1977 से 
फेनरा बैंक के प्रबन्ध निदेशक के रूप मे पुम: नियुक्त किया गया है, उमी 
मारीख से फेनरा बैंक के निदेशक बोर्ड के अध्यक्ष के रूप में नियुक्त करती 


[मं० एफ० 9/ 13/ 77-मी० प्रो० ( 2 )] 

बलदेव सिह , मंयुक्त सचिव 


8 . 0 . 2953. - In pursuance of sub -clause ( 1 ) of clause 5 , 
read with clause 7 , of the Nationalised Banks (Management 
and Miscellaneous Provisions ) Scheme, 1970, the Central 
Government, after consultation with the Reserve Bank of 
India , hereby appoints Shri C . E. Kamath, who has been 
TC -appointed ay Managing Director of the Canara Bank with 
effect from 3rd September, 1977 , to be the Chairman of tho 
Board of Directors of the Canara Bank with effect from tho 
samo dute . 


[ No . F. 9 / 13 / 77 - BO . I ( 2)] 
BALDEV SINGH, Jt. Secy. 


मई दिल्ली , 8 मिनम्बर, 1977 
का . आ० 2954. - - ऋषिक पुनर्विन निगम नपा बिमाम मिगम प्रषि 
नियम , 1963 ( 1963 का 10 ) की धारा 10 के सण ( ग ) द्वारा 
प्रवत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग फरसे हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा भी है . 
एम० नारंग के स्थान पर कृषि पौर सिंचाई मंत्रालय, कृषि विभाग के सचिव 
भी जी० बी० के ० राय को कृषिक पुनर्मित तथा विकास निगम के निवेशक 
के रूप में नामित करती है । 

[मं० एफ . 14- 67/ 17-ए . सी .] 

बी० एन . बहादुर, उप सचिव 


1. विवेणी मुद्रा विनियमन अधि . दिनांक 1 जनवरी 1974 को प्रधि 
. नियम 1973 ( 1973 का 48 ) सूचना सं० एफ० ई . प्रार० ए० 

( इसके बाद इसका “ मधिनियम " 1/ 74-पापी 
के रूप में उल्लेख किया गया 
है ) की धारा 2 के बंड ( म ) का 

स्पष्टीकरण 
2. अधिनियम की धारा 31 को प. दिनांक 1 जनवरी 1974 की 
चारा ( 1 ) 

अधिसूचना म० एफ० ई० मार . 

ए० 2/74- मारपी 
3. पधिनियम की धारा 8 को उर- दिनाक 1 जनवरी 1974 की 
धारा ( 1 ) 

पधिसूचना सं० एफ० ई . पार . 

प.. 3 / 74-मारपी 
4. अधिनियम की धारा 8 की उप- दिनाक 1 जनवरी 1974 की प्रधि 
धारा ( 1 ) 

मूचना मं० एफ० ई० प्रार० प. . 

___ 4/ 74- पारखी 
5. प्रधिनियम की धारा की उप दिनांक 1 जनवरी 1974 की 
धारा ( 1 ) 

पधिसूचना मं० एफ० १० प्रार . 

ए.. 5/ 74-मारपी 
6. अधिनियम की धारा मी जप . दिनांक 1 जनवरी 1974 की 
धारा ( 1 ) कावंड ( प ) अधिसूचना मं० एफ . ई० पार . 

ए . 6/ 74- मारपी 
7. अधिनियम की धारा मी उप . दिमांक 1 जनवरी 1974 को प्रधि 
धारा ( 1 ) 

सूपमा सं० एफ० ६० प्रार० ए० 

7/ 74- मारपी 
8 . अधिनियम की धारा 9 की उप - दिनांक 1 जनवरी 1974 की 
पारा ( ३ ) 

मधिसूचना मं० एफ ०ई० प्रार . 

ए• 8 / 74- पारगी 
9. भारत सरकार , वित्त मंत्रालय दिनांक 1 जनवरी 1974 की 

की दिनांक 1 जनवरी 1974 अधिसूचना सं० एफ० ई० पार० 
की अधिसूचना सं० एफ . 1/ ए . 9/ 74 आरबी 

107/ईसी / 73 
10. अधिनियम की धारा 13 की विमाफ 1 जनवरी 1974 की 
उपधारा ( 2 ) 

पधिसूचना सं० एफ० ६० पार . 

ए . 10/ 74- मारवी 
11. अधिनियम की धारा 19 की उप- दिमाक 1 जनवरी 1974 को प्रधि 
मारा ( 2 ) 

सूचना सं० एफ०१० मार० ए० 
11/ 74- प्रारी 


New Delhi, the 8th Soptember , 1977 


S. O . 2954 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred upon it by 
clause ( c ) of section 10 of the Agricultural Refinance and 
Development Corporation Act , 1963 ( 10 of 1963 ), the Cen 
tral Government hereby nominate Shri G . V . K . Rao, Secre 
tary, Department of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture & 
Irrigation , as a Director of the Agricultural Refinance & 
Development Corporation vice Shri K . S . Narang. 

[ No. F. 14- 67 / 77- AC ] 
V . N. BAHADUR, Dy. Secy . 


. 


- - 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- - - - -- - - --- 


- - - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


_ 


- 


- -- - 


- 


- - - - - . . - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


3416 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977 / ASVINA 2, 1899 

[ PART II . SEC . 3(ii)] 
- - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - . - 

- ---- . . - - - 
( 1 ) ( 2 ) 

( 1 ) 

( 3 ) 
12. अधिनियम की धारा 19 की उप- दिनांक 1 जनवरी 1974 की अधि 

2 ) अधिनियम की धारा 8 की उप - दिनांक 7 अक्तूबर 1972 की अधि 
धारा ( 1 ) सूचना मं० एफ० ई० प्रार० ए० 

धाग ( 1 ) पौर धारा 73 की सूचना सं० एफ० ई० प्रार.. एक 
12 /74- मारबी 

उपधारा ( 3 ) 

256/ 72- प्रारनी 
13. अधिनियम की धारा 24 दिनांक 1 जनवरी 1974 की 
अधिसूचना मं० एफ० ई० प्र. र० 

3 ) अधिनियम की धारा 9 की उप - दिनाक ? अयबर 1972 की अधि 
ए . 13/ 74-अरबी 

धाग ( 1 ) का खड ( ख ) मूचना स० एफ० ई० प्रार० ए० 

257/ 72- आग्बी 
14. अधिनियम की धारा 26 की उप - दिनांक 11 जनवरी 1974 की 
धारा ( B ) अधिसूचना सं० एफ० ई० आर० 

[ मं० एफ० ई० आर० ए० 45/ 77- पार० मी०] 
ए . 16/ 74-प्रारबी 

पी० पार.० नागिया, उप गवर्नर 
15 अधिनियम की धारा 26 की उप - दिनांक 11 जनवरी 1974 की अधि 

RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 
धारा ( 7 ) 

सूचना मं० एफ० ई० मार० ए० 
17/ 74- आरबी 

( Exchange Control Department ) 
16. अधिनियम की धारा 20 की उप- दिनांक 11 अक्तूबर 1974 की 

CENTRAL OFFICE 
धारा ( 1 ) अधिसूचना सं० एफ० ई. प्रार० 

Bombay, the 1st September , 1977 
ए० 22/ 71-मारवी 

S. O . 2955 . --.In pursuance of cach of the provisions set out 
17. अधिनियम की धारा 29 की उप - दिनांक 27 नवंबर 1974 को अधि 

lo column 2 of the following Schedule the Reserve Bank hereby 
धारा ( 3 ) 

सूचना सं० एफ० ई . भार० ए . directs that the notification mentioned in column 3 of the said 
23 / 74- पारखी 

Schedule against each provision in column 2 thercof shall . with 

immediate effect, extend to the State of Sikkim . 
18. अधिनियम की धाग 1 3 की उप दिनांक 30 जनवरी 1975 की 
धारा ( 2 ) अधिमूचना सं० एफ० ई० प्रार० 

SCHEDULE 
ए.० 24/ 75- पारखी 
19. अधिनियम की धारा 28 की उप - दिनांक 19 अप्रैल 1975 की अधि . 

Sr . Provisions under which Notification which is exten 
धारा ( 1 ) सूचना मं० एफ० ई० प्रार० ए० No. extension is made 

ded 
27/ 75- मारबी 

( 1 ) ( 2 ) 

( 3) 
20 अधिनियम की धारा 13 की उप - दिनांक 13 दिसंबर 1975 की अधि 

1 . Explanation to clause ( j ) of FERA. 1 / 74 - RB dated 1st 
धारा ( 2 ) मुखना मं० एफ० ई० प्रार० ० 

section 2 of the Foreign Ex - January 1974. 
33/ 75-पारखी 

change Regulation Act 1973 
21. अधिनियम की धारा 28 की उप - दिनांक 8 मार्च 1976 की अधि 

( 46 of 1973) ( hereinafter re 
घाग ( 1 ) का खंड ( ग ) मूचना म० एफ० ई० पार 

ferred to as " the Act " ). 
प० 34/ 76-भारती 

2 . Sub-section ( 1) of section ____ FERA. 2/ 74- RB dated 1st 
22. अधिनियम की धारा 26 की उप- पिनांक 10 अप्रैल 1976 की अधि 

31 of the Act. 

January 1974 . 
घारा ( 6 ) सपना सं० [ फा० ई० प्रार० ए० 

3. Sub - section (1) of section FERA. 3/74- RB dated 1st 

___ _ 8 of the Act . 
35/ 76/-प्रारमी 

January 1974. 

4. Sub -section ( 1) of section 
23. अधिनियम की धारा 13 की उप - दिनांक 10 मई 1976 को अधि 

FERA. 4/ 74- RB dated 1st 
8 of the Act . 

____ January 1974. 
धारा ( 2 ) सूचना सं० एफ० ई० मार० 

5 . Sub-section(1 ) of section FERA. 5/ 74- RB dated 1st 
Mo 36/ 76- पारधी 

9 of the Act. 

January 1974. 
24. भारत मरकार के विन मंत्रालय दिनांक 4 जनवरी 195 4 की प्रधि 

6. Clause ( d ) of sub -section ( 1) FERA. 6/ 74- RB dated 1st 
को दिनांक 24 मार्च 1951 मूचना मं० एफ० ई० प्रार० ए० 

___ of section 9 of the Act . January 1974. 
की प्रधिमूचना सं० एस० प्रार० 123/ 51-प्रारमो 

7. Sub -section (1) of section FERA . 7/74 -RB dated 1st 
ओ० 401 [12( 20 ) ई०एफ० 

9 of the Act. 

January 1974 . 
VII / 51 ] 

8. Sub- section ( 3) of section FERA . 8 / 74 - RB dated 1st 
25. भारत सरकार के वित्त मंत्रालय दिनांक 8 नवंबर 1962 की प्रधि 

9 of the Act. 

___ January 1974. 
की दिनांक 25 अगस्त 1946 की सूचना सं० एफ० ई० आर० ए० 9. Government of India, Minis - FERA . 9/74-RB dated 1st 
अधिमूचमा सं0 12( 11 ) -एफ० 208/ 82-प्रारबी 

try of Finance, Notification January 1974 . 

No. F.I/ 107/ EC / 73 dated 1st 
1 / 48 

January 1974 . 
26. भारत सरकार के विम मंत्रालय दिनोफ 4 जुलाई 1963 की प्रधि 

10 . Sub -section (2) of Section FERA . 10 /74- RB dated 1st 
की दिनांक 25 अगस्त 1948 भूचना सं० एफ० ई० पार० ए० 

13 of the Act. 

January 1974 . 
की अधिमूधमा मं० 12( 11 ) 223/ 63-प्रारजी 

11 . Sub-section (2) of section FERA . 11 /74-RB dated 1st 
एफ० 1/ 48 

13 of the Act. 

___ January 1974 . 
27. अधिनियम की धारा 13 की उप - दिनाक 10 दिसंबर 1969 की पधि 

12. Sub -section ( 1) of section FERA . 12 / 74 -RB dated 1st 
19 of the Act . 

January 1974. 
घारा ( 2) मुयना मं० एफ ई० भार० ए० 

13. Section 24 of the Act . FERA. 13/ 74- RB dated 1st 
247/ 69- प्रारमः 

___ January 1974 . 
28. भारत मरकार के वित्त मंत्रालय दिनांक 7 जून 1972 की अधिसूचना 

14 . Sub-section (6 ) of section FERA . 16 /74-RB dated 11th 
की दिनांक 25 अगस्त 1948 की मं० एफ०ई० पार०ए० 255/ 72 

26 of the Act. 

___ January 1974. 
अधिसूचना सं० 12( 11) मारवी 

15. Sub-section (7) of section FERA . 17/74-RB dated 11th 
एफ० 1/ 48 

26 of the Act. 

January 1974 . 


- 


म० 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


(भाग II -- खण्ड ( ii) ] भारत का राजपत्र . सितम्बर 24 , 1977/ आश्विन 2, 1890 

3417 
: - - - - - - - - - - - - - - : : . - 

- - - -- - - - - - - -- --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - 

उन त्यत्तियों के संबध में ओ भारतीय लेखापरीक्षा और लेखा विभाग में 
16. Sub-section ( 1 ) of section FERA, 22/ 74- RB dated 11th 

सेवारत है, नियंत्रक -महालेखापरीक्षक से परामर्ण करने के पश्चात राष्ट्र 
29 of the Act. October 1974 . 

गति साधारण भविष्य निधि ( केन्द्रीय मेवाएं ) नियम , 1960 में प्रौर मंशा 
17. Sub -section ( 3 ) of Section FERA . 23 / 74-RB dated 27th धन करने के लिए , निम्नलिखित नियम बनाते है, अर्थात् : - - 
29 of the Act . ____ November 1974. 

___ 1. ( 1 ) इन नियमो का नाम माधारण भविष्य निधि ( केन्द्रीय सेवाए ) 
18. Sub-section ( 2 ) of section FERA. 24/ 75 - RB dated 30th 
13 of the Act. ___ January 1975 . 

चौथा संशोधन नियम , 1977 है । 
19 . Sub-section (1 ) of section FERA. 27/ 75 - RB dated 19th 

( c ) 8 जनवरी , 1975 को प्रवुम हुए समझ जाएगे । 
28 of the Act. April 1975 . 

2. माधारण भविष्य निधि ( केन्द्रीय सेवाए ) नियम, 1960 में , 
20. Sub-section ( 2) of Section FERA. 33 / 75 -RB dated 13th 
13 of the Act. ___ December 1975 . 

नियम 33 के पश्चात्, निम्नलिखित नियम अंत म्थापित किया जाएगा , 
21. Clausc (c ) of sub -section (1) PERA. 34/76 -RB dated 6th 

अर्थात् :- - 
of section 28 of the Act. March 1976 . 

".3.3- निक्षेप संबद्ध बीमा स्कीम -- अभिदायी की मृत्यु पर , 
22. Sub -section ( 6 ) of section FERA. 35 / 76 - RB dated 10th 

अभिदायी के जमा खाते रकम प्राप्त करने के हकदार व्यक्ति को , 
26 of the Act. April 1976 . 

लेखा अधिकारी द्वारा , ऐसे अभिवायी की मृत्यु के ठीक पूर्ववर्ती 3 
23 . Sub-scction ( 2 ) of section FERA. 36 /76- RB lated 10th 

वर्ष के दौरान उसके लेखा में प्रीयन प्रतिशेष के ममतुल्य अतिरिक्त 
13 of the Act. 

____ May 1976 . 
24. Governinent of India , Mi- FERA , 123/ 54 -RB datod 41h 

रखम का संदाय, निम्नलिखित शो के अधीन रहते हुए किया जाएगा, 
nistry of Finance Notifica ___ January 1954. 

अर्थात् : - - 
tion No. SRO. 401 [12( 20 ) 

( क ) ऐसे अभिदायी के जमाखाते में प्रतिशेष उमका मुस्य के मास 
EE. VII/ 51 ] dated 24th 

के ठीक पूर्ववर्ती । थर्ष के दौगन, निम्नलिम्नि शियों मे 
March 1951, 
25. Government of India , Mi - FERA. 208/ 62 - RB dated 8th 

कम नहीं होना चाहिए : - - 
_ nistry of Finance Notifica - November 1962. 

(i ) ऐसे अभिवायी की दशा में जिगने उपरोक 3 वर्ष को 
tion No . 12 ( 11 )- F1/48 dated 

अवधि के अधिकतर भाग में , ऐमा पद धारण किया है 
25th August 1948 . 
26 . Government of India , Mi- 

मिसके वेतनमान का अधिकतम 1300 रुपए या अधिक 
FERA , 223 /63-RB duted 4th 
___ nistry of Finance Notifica - July 1963 . 

है, 3000म्पाए 
tion No. 12 ( 11 )-F1/ 48 dated 

( ii ) ऐसे अभिवायी की दशा में जिमने उपरोक 3 वर्ष की 
25th August 1948 . 

अवधि के अधिकतर भाग में ऐमा पद धारण किया है 
27. Sub -section ( 2 ) of section FERA. 247/ 69- RB dated 10th 
13 of the Act . 

जिमके वेतनमान का अधिकतम 900 रुपए या अधिक 
December 1969. 
28 . Government of India, FERA. 255/ 72 - RB dated 7th 

है , किन्तु 1300 रुपए से कम है, 2500 रुपए 
___ Ministry of Finance Noti - June 1972 . 

( iii ) मे मभिदायी की दमा में जिसने उपरोक 3 वर्ष की 
fication No . 12 ( 11)- F1 / 48 

प्रधि के अधिकतर भाग में , ऐमा पद धारण किया है 
dated 25th August 1948 . 

जिमके वेतनमान का अधिकतम 290 रुपए या उसमे 
29. Sub -section (1) of section FERA . 256 /72 -RB dated 7th 
8 and sub -section (3 ) of sec - October 1972 . 

अधिक है किन्तु 900 रुपए से कम है , 1500 रुपाए । 
tion 73 of the Act. 

( iv ) ऐसे अभिदायी की दशा में जिसने उपरोक 3 वर्ग का 
30 . Clause ( b ) of sub -section( 1 ) FERA. 257/ 72- RB dated 7th 

अवधि के अधिकतर भाग में , रोमा पद धारण किया है 
___ of section 9 of the Act. October 1972 . 

जिमके वेतनमान का अधिकतम 190 रुपए से कम है , 
[ No. FERA, 45 /77- RB] 

100000 
P. R . NANGIA, Dy. Governor . 

( ख ) इस नियम के अधीन संदेय अतिरिक्त रकम 10, 000 रुपए 

मे अधिक नहीं होगी ; 
(Department of Accounts and Expenditure) 

( ग ) मृत्यु के समय तक अभिदायी की सेवा काम ग कम 5 वर्ष 
Bombay, the 8th September , 1977 

होनी चाहिए । 
CORRIGENDUM 

टिप्पण-|---ौमत अतिशेष अभिदायी की मृत्यू के माम के पूर्वधर्मी 38 
S . O . 2956 . - In the statement of affairs of the Issue Depart 

मास में से प्रत्येक के अंत में अभिदायी के जमाखाने में अति 
ment is on 1.51h July 1977, published in Part II — Section 3 (ii) 
of the Gazette of India Jated 27th August 1977, the following 

मेष के आधार पर निकाला जाएगा । इम प्रयोजन के लिए , 
Corrigendum may be noted on page 2862 , the figures 

और ऊपर विहित न्यूनतम अतिशेषी की जाच करने के लिए 
Rs. 1271. 73 , 93,000 under the head “ Foreign Securities" may 
be rend as Rs . 1271, 73, 97 , 000. 

भी - - 
IReference Gen. No. 152 / 4- 77 / 78 ] 

( क ) मार्च में प्रत में अतिशेष में नियम 11 के अनुसार 
K . SUBRAMANIAN , P. Chief Accountant 

जमाखाते की गई वार्षिक व्याज सम्मिलित होगी , और 
( प्यय विभाग ) 

( रस ) यदि उपर्युक्त 36 माम में से अन्तिम माम मार्य नही है तो , 

उम अन्तिम माम के अंत के प्रतिशेष में , उम विसीय 
नई दिल्ली, 5 सितम्बर, 1977 

वर्ष के प्रारम्भ में , जिगम मृत्यु हुई है, उक्त अन्तिम माम 
का० आ० 2957 - - संविधान के अनुच्छेद 309 के परन्तुक प्रोर अनुमद 

के अंत तक की अवधि की बावन ब्याज सम्मिलित 
119 के खणस ( 5 ) द्वारा प्रदन शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , और 

होगी । 


3418 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977 /ASVINA 2 , 1899 

[ PART II - SEC. 3( ii ) ] 
- --- - --- - - 

- - . .. 
- 

- - - - - - - - -- - - - 
टिप्पण - 2 - -- इस स्कीम के अधीन मवाय पूर्ण रुपयों में होना चाहिए । Indian Auclit and Accounts Department, the President hereby 

makes the following rules further to amend the General Provi. 
यदि शोध्य रकम में रुपए का कोई भाग सम्मिलिन है तो 

dent Fund ( Central Services ) Rules , 1960, namely : 
पर निकटनम झपाए में पूणांकित किया जाएगा ( 50 माँ 

1, ( 1 ) These rulcs may be called the Gencral Provident 
को 1 रूपया गिना आएगा ) । 

Fund ( Central Services ) Fourth Amendment Rules . 1977. 
टिप्पण - 3-~ -इस स्कीम के अधीन संदेय राशि बीमा-धन के स्टप में है । 

( 2 ) They shall be deemed to have come into force on 
अत : याप्य निधि अधिनियम , 1925 ( 1925 का 19 ) the 8th day of January, 1975. 
की धारा 3 द्वारा दिया गया संरक्षण , स्कीम के अधीन संदेय 

2 . In the General Provident Fund ( Central Services ) 
गशियों को लागू नहीं होगा । 

Rules, 1960 , after rule 33, the following rule shall be inserted , 

nimely : 
टिप्पण -4 - यह स्कीम निधि के उन अभिदायियों को भी लाग होती है 
जो किसी मरकारी विभाग के निकाय में परिवर्तित किए जाने 

" 33- A Deposit-linked Insurance Scheme. On the death of 

subscriber , the person cutitled to receive the amount stand 
के परिणाम स्वरूप किमी म्वमाशी संगठन को स्थानांतरित कर 

ing to the credit of the subscriber shall be paid by the 
विए जाते हैं और मो ऐसे स्थानांतरण पर , उन्हें दिए गए Account Officer an additional amount equal to the average 

balance in the account during the 3 years immediately pre 
विकल्प के अनुसरण में , इन नियमों के अनुमार इस निधि 

coding the death of such subscriber, subject to the condition 
में अभिदाय करने का निश्चय करते हैं । 

that 

(a ) the balance at the credit of such subscriber shall 
टिप्पण- 5 - - ऐसे सरकारी सेवक की दशा में जिसे नियम 35 और नियम 

not at any time during the 3 years preceding the 
35-7 के अधीन , निधि के फायदे देना स्वीकार किया गया 

month of death have fallen below the limits of. 
है , किन्तु जिसकी मृत्यु यथास्थिति 3 वर्ष सेवा पूरी होने 

( i ) Rs. 3000 / - in the case of a sulyscriber who bag 
के पूर्व प्रथया निधि में उसे सम्मिलित किए जाने की तारीख 

held , for the greater part of the aforesaid period 
से 5 वर्ष की सेवा पूरी होने के पूर्व हो जाती है , पूर्ववर्ती 

of threc yeurs , a post the muximum of the pity 

scale of which is Rs. 1300, or moie ; 
नियोजक के अधीन उसकी सेवा की यह अवधि जिसको बाबत 

(ii) Rs 2500 in the case of u subscriber who has 
उसके अभिदाय और नियोजक के अभिदाय , यदि कोई हों , व्याज के 

held , for the greater part of the aforesaid poriou 
माथ प्राप्त हो गए हो , खण क और मांगर ग के प्रयोजनों के 

of three years , a post the maximum of the pay 

scale of which is Rs . 900 or more but less thar 
लिए गणना में ली जाएगी । 

Rs. 1300 ; 
( ख ) नियत अवधि के आधार पर नियुक्त किए गए व्यकियों 

( iii ) Rs. 1500 in the case of subscriber who has 
की दशा में और पुनियोजित सेवा निवृत्त व्यक्तियों 

held , for the greater part of the aforesaid perioc 

of thrce years , a post the maximum of the pay 
की दशा में , केवल ऐमी नियुक्ति या ऐसे पुननियोजन की 

scale of which is Rs. 290 or more but less thar 
नारीस्त्र में की गई सेवा इम नियम के प्रयोजनों के लिए 

Rs. 900 ; 
गणना में ली जाएगी । 

(iv ) Rs. 1000 in the case of a subscriber who has 

held , for the greater part of the aforesaid period 
( ग ) यह स्वीम निविदा के आधार पर नियुक्त किए गए व्यक्तियों 

of three years, a rost the maximum of the pay 
को लागू नहीं है । 

scale of which is less than Rs. 2903 

( b ) the additional amount payable under this rule shal 
टिप्पण- 6 - इम स्कीम की पायल व्यय के बजट प्राक्कलन उस लेखा अधि 

not exceed Rs. 10 ,000 ; 
कारी द्वारा तैयार किए जाएंगे जो निधि के रखे जाने के 

( c ) the subscriber has put in atleast 5 voars service ar 
लिए उत्तरदायी है । ऐसे ममट प्राक्कलन व्यय की प्रकृति को 

the time of his death . 
ध्यान में रखते हुए उमी रीति में तैयार किए जाएं , जिन नीति 
में अन्य सेवा निवृत्त फायदों के लिए प्राक्कलन तैयार किए 

Note 1. - The average balance shall be worked out on the 

basis of the balance at the credit of the subscriber at the 
जाने हैं । " 

end of each of the 36 months preceding the month in which 

the death occurs. For this purpose , as also for checking the 
स्पष्टीकरण मापन 

minimum balances prescribed above 
साधारण भविष्य निधि ( केन्द्रीय सेवाएं ) नियम , 1960 में ये संणोधन 

( a ) the balance at the end of March shall include the 

Hinnual interest credited in terms of rule 11 ; and 
8 जनवरी , 1975 से भुतलभी प्रभाव से किये जा रहे है क्योंकि निक्षेप 
संबद्ध बीमा स्कीम , वित्त मंत्रालय ( श्यय विभाग ) के कार्यालय ज्ञापन मं० 

( b ) if the last of the aforesaid 36 months is not March, 

the balance at the end of the said last month shall include 
एफा० 8 ( 10 )-1 ( बी )/ 73 तारीम्स 8 जनवरी, 1975 में पुनःस्थापित interest in respect of the period from the beginning of the 
की गई थी । इन नियमों के 8 जनवरी , 1975 से भूतलक्षी प्रभाव से 

financial year in which death occurs to the end of the said 

last month . 
लाग किए जाने से किमी अधिकारी पर कोई प्रतिकूल प्रभाव पड़ने की 
संभावना नहीं है । 

Note 2 .- - Payments under this scheme should be in whole 
rupees. If an amount due includes a fraction of a rupce, 

it should be rounded to the nearest rupce, ( 50 paisc counting 
[ सं० फा० 13 ( 10) - थी ( मी )/ 76-जी०पी०एफ०] 

as the next higher rupee ) . 
श्याम सुन्दर लाल मलहोत्रा 

Note 3. - any sum payable under this scheme is in the 

nature of insurance - money and , therefore , the statutory pro . 
(Department of Expenditure ) 

tection given hy section 3 of the Provident Fund Act, 1925 

( Act 19 of 1925) does not apply to sums payable under this 
New Delhi , the 5th September , 1977 

scheme. 
9 . 0 . 2957 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by the Note 4 . - This scheme also applies to those subscribers to 
proviso to Article 309 and clause ( 5 ) of article 1.48 of the the Fund who are translerred to in autonomous organisa 
Constitution , and after consultation with the Comptroller tion consequent upon conversion of a Govertiment Depart 
and Auditor General in relation to porsong werving in the ment into such a body and who , on such transfer, opt , in 


- 


_ - - 


. . . 


- . . 


- - - - - 


- 


-- 


[ भाग II - मर 3 ( ii ) ] भारत का राजपन्न : मितम्बर 24, 1977/ आश्विन 2, 1899 

3419 
- - - - - -- - - - - - --- - - - -- - - - - - - -- - 

- - - - - - 
terms of option given to them , to subscribe to this Fund 

( 3 ) ऐसे अभिवायी की दशा मे जिमने उपरोक्त 3 वर्ष की 
in accordance with these rules. 

प्रधि के अधिकतर भाग में , ऐमा पद धारण किया है 
Note 5.-- - ( a ) In case of a Government servant who has 

कि जिसके वेतनमान का अधिकतम 290 रुपये या उसके 
len admitted to the benefits of the Fund under rule 35 
or Tule 35 - A , but dies before completion of three years 

अधिक है किन्तु 900 60 से कम है, 1500 रुपये । 
service or, as the case may be, five years service from the 
dute of his admission to the Fund that period of his servico 

( 4 ) ऐसे अभिदायी की दशा में जिमन उपरोक्त 3 वर्ष की 
under the previous employer in respect whereof the amount 
of his subscriptions and the employer s contribution, if any , 

अवधि के अधिकतर भाग में , ऐमा पद धारण किया है 
together with interest have been received , shall count for 

जिसके वेतनमान का अधिकतम 290 रुपये में कम है , 
purposes of clause ( a ) and clause ( c ) . 

1000 रुपए ; 
b ) In case of persons appointed on tenure busy and in 
the cuse of re -cmploycd pensioners , service rendered from 

( ख ) इस नियम के अधीन मवेय अतिरिक्त रकम 10, 000 रुपये से 
the date of such appointment or re- employment , as the case 

अधिक नहीं होगी ; 
muy he , only will count for purposes of this rule . 

( ग ) मूल्य के समय तक अभिवायी की सेवा कम से कम 5 वर्ष 
( c ) This scheme does not apply to persons appointed on 
contract basis . 

होनी चाहिए । 
Note 6 . — The budget estimates of expenditure in respect 

टिप्पण 1 - प्रौमत प्रनिशेष अभिवानी को मृत्यु के माम के पूर्ववर्ती 
of this scheme will be prepared by the Accounty Officer res 36 भाम में से प्रत्येक के अन्त में अभिदायी के जमाखाने में प्रतिशेष के 
ponsible for maintenance of the accounts of the Fund having 
regard to the trend of expenditure , in the same manner ay आधार पर निकाला जाएगा । इस प्रयोजन के लिए और ऊपर विष्ठित 
cstimates are prepared for other retirement benefits ." 

न्यूनतम अनिशेषों की जांच करने के लिए भी - - 
EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 

( क ) मार्च के अन्त में प्रतिशेष में नियम 11 के अनुसार जमाखाते 

की गई वार्षिक म्याग मम्मिलित होगी - और 
The Gencral Provident Fund ( Central Services ) Rules , 
1960 are being amended letrospectively with effect from 8th 

( ब ) यदि उपर्युक्त 36 माम में मे अन्तिम माम मार्च मही है तो , 
Tanuary , 1975 as the deposit-Jinked insurance scheme was 

उक्त अन्तिम मास के अन्न के प्रतिशेष में , उम वित्तीय वर्ष के 
introduced with effect from that date vide Ministry of Financo 
( Department of Expenditure ) O . M . No . F. 9 ( 10 ) - EV ( B ) / 73, 

प्रारम्भ से, जिसमें मृत्यु हुई है, जक अन्तिम माम के अन्त तक 
(iated the 8th January , 1975. No officer is likely to be 

की अवधि की बाबत म्याज मम्मिलित होगी । 
udversely affected by these rules being given retrospectivo 
effect from 8- 1 -1975 . 

टिप्पणी 2 - इस स्कीम के अधीन मंदाय पूर्ण रुपयों में होना चाहिए । 
[ No. F. 13 ( 10 ) - EV ( B ) / 76 - GPF] 

यदि शोध्य रकम में रुपए का कोई भाग मम्मिलित है तो वह निकटतम 
का० मा० 2958. ---संविधान के अनुच्छेद 309 के परन्तुक और 

रुपा में पूर्णांकित किया जाएगा ( 50 पैसों को 1 रुपया गिना जाएगा ) । 
अनुच्छेद 149 के बण्ड ( 5 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , टिप्पण 3 - - इम स्कीम के अधीन मवाय राशि भीमा के धन के रूप में 

और उन व्यक्तियों के सम्बन्ध में जो भारतीय लेखापरीक्षा और लेना है । अमः भविष्य निधि अमियम , 1925 ( 1925 का 19 ) की धारा 3 
विभाग में सेवारत हैं, नियंत्रक-महालेखा परीक्षक से परामर्श करने के द्वारा दिया गया संरक्षण, स्कीम के अधीन संवेय राशियों को लागू नहीं 
पश्चात् राष्ट्रपति अंशदायी भविष्य निधि नियम ( भारत ) 1962 में और 

होगा । 
संशोधन करने के लिए, निम्नलिखित नियम बनाते हैं, अर्थात् .- - 

टिप्पणी 4 -- यह स्कीम निधि के उन अधिदायियों को भी लागू होती 
1. ( 1 ) इन नियमी का नाम अंगवायी भविष्य निधि पौधा मंणोधन 

है जो किमी सरकारी विभाग के निकाय में परिवर्तित किए जाने के 

परिणामस्वरूप किमी स्वमाशी संगठन को स्थानांतरित कर दिए जाते हैं 
नियम ( भारत ), 1977 है । 

और जो ऐसे स्थानांतरण पर , उन्हें दिए गए विकल्प के अनुमरण में ; 
( 2 ) ये 8 जनवरी, 1975 को प्रवन हुए समझे जाएंगे । 

इन नियमों के अनुसार इम निधि में अभिवाय करने का निश्चय करते हैं । 
2. अंशदायी भविष्य निधि नियम ( भारत ), 1962 में नियम 35 

टिप्पणी 5 ---ऐसे मरकारी सेवक की दशा में जिसे नियम 35 और 
के पश्चात्, निम्नलिखित नियम अनःस्थापित किया जाएगा अर्थात् :-- 

नियम 35-7 के अधीन, निधि के फायवे वेना स्वीकार किया गया है किन्तु 
" 35-क निक्षेप सम्बद्ध भीमा स्कीम - - अभिवायी की मृत्यु पर , अभि 

जिसकी मृत्य , यथास्थिति , 3 वर्ष सेवा पूरी होने के पूर्व प्रथया निधि में 
दायी के जमा-खाते रकम प्राप्त करने के हकदार व्यक्ति को , लेखा अधि 

उमे मम्मिलित किए जाने की मारीख से 5 वर्ष की सेवा पूरी होने के 
झारी वाग ऐसे अभिवायी की मृत्यु के ठीक पूर्ववर्ती 3 वर्ष के दोगन 

पूर्व हो जाती है, पूर्ववर्ती नियोजक के अधीन उमकी सेवा की वह अवधि , 
उसके सखा में औमन प्रविशेष के ममतुल्य अतिरिक्त रकम को संवाय 

जिसकी बाबत उसके अभिवायी पर पौर नियोजक के अभिदायी यदि कोई 
निम्नलिखित शों के अधीन रहते हुए किया जाएगा अर्थात् :- - 

हो, न्यास के साथ प्राप्म हो गए हो , माण्ड क और खण्ड ग के प्रयोजनों के 
( क ) ऐमे अभिदायी के जमावाने में प्रतिणेष उसकी मृत्यु के मास 

लिए गणना में ली जाएगी । 
के ठीक पूर्ववर्ती 3 वर्षों के दौरान, निम्नलिखित राशियो से 

( म ) नियत अवधि के प्राधार पर नियुक्त किए गए व्यक्तियों की दशा 

में और पुननियोजिस सेवानिवृत्ति व्यक्तियों की दशा में केवल 
कम नहीं होना चाहिए :- - 

ऐसी नियुक्तियां ऐसे पुननियोजन की तारीख से की गई सेवा 
( 1 ) ऐसे अभिदायी की बणा में जिमने उपरोक्त 3 वर्ष की 

प्रम नियम के प्रयोजनो के लिए गणना में ली जाएगी । 
प्रवधि के अधिकतर भाग में , ऐमा पद धारण किया है 

( ग ) यह स्कीम निविवा के माधार पर नियुक्त किए गए व्यक्तियों को 
जिमके वेतनमान का अधिकतम 1300 रु० या अधिक है 

लागू नहीं है । 
3000 रुपये ; 

टिप्पणी 6 - - इस स्कीम की यावत व्यय के बजट प्राक्कलन उम लेखा 
( 2 ) मे अभिदायी की दशा में जिसने उपरोक 3 वर्ष की 

अधिकारी द्वारा तैयार किए जाएंगे जो निधि के रखे जाने के लिए उत्तर 
प्रयधि के अधिकतर भाग में ऐमा पद धारण किया है 

दायी है । ऐसे बजट प्रामफलन व्यय की प्रकृति को ध्यान में रखते हुए 
जिमक वेतनमान का अधिकतम ५00 रु० या अधिक है 

उमी रीति में तैयार किए जाएंगे जिम रीति में अन्य मेवा निवृत्त फायदों में 
किन्तु 1300 रुपये मे कग है, 2500 रुपये ; 

लिए प्राकलन तैयार किए जाते हैं । " 


3420 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977 /ASVINA 2 , 1899 

[PART II — SEC , 3 ( 1)] 
- — - - - - S : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - -- -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - 
स्पष्टीकरण ज्ञापन 

the death occurs . For this purpose , as also for checking the 

minimum balances prescribed above 
Janarü face fafur faryze ( ), 1962 1 P AVTEA S 
जनवरी , 1975 से भूतलक्षी प्रभाव में किये जा रहे हैं क्योकि निक्षेप ( 22 ) the balance at the end of March shall include the 

annual interest credited in terms of rule 12 , and 
सम्बद्ध श्रोमा स्कीम, विन मंत्रालय ( व्यय विभाग ) के कार्यालय झापन 
TT 9 ( 10 )-fit ( ſ ), 73, Arte 8 hast, 1975 Ħ FT: 

( b ) if the last of the aforesaid 36 months is not March , 
स्थापित की गई थी । इन नियमो के 8 जनवरी, 1975 में भूतलक्षी the balance at the end of the said last month shall include 
प्रभाय में लागू किए जाने मे किमी अधिकारी पर कोई प्रतिकल प्रभाव interest in respect of the period from the beginning of the 

financial year in which death occurs to the end of the said 
पड़ने की संभावना नहीं है । 

last month . 
[ ito 710 13 ( 10 )- - V (fo )/ 76- forto ho ] 

Note 2 . — Payments under this schere should be in whole 
एम० एम० एल० मल्होत्रा , अवर सचिव rupees. If an amount due includes a fraction or a riipco , 

it should be rounded to the nearest rupee , ( 50 paise count 

ing as the next higher rupee ) . 
S . O . 2958 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to article 309 and clause ( 3 ) of article 148 
of the Constitution , and after consultation with the Comp 

Note 3. — Any sum payable under this scheme is in the 
troller and Auditor General in relation to persons serving in 

nature of insurance -money und , therefore , the statutory pro 
the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, the President 
hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Con tection given by section 3 of the Provident Funds Act, 1925 
tributory Provident Fund Rules (India ) , 1962 , numely : 

Act 19 of 1925 ) does not apply to sums payable under 

this scheme. 
1 . ( 1 ) These rules may he called the Contributory Pro 
vident Fund Fourth Amendment Rules India ), 1977. 

Note 4 . - This scheme also applies to those subscribers to 

the Fund who are trunsferred to an autonomous organisation 
( 2 ) They shall be deemed to have come into force on the consequent upon conversion of a Government Department 
8th day of January , 1975. 

into such ú body and who, on such transfer , opt, in terms 
2 . In the Contributory Provident Fund Rules ( India ) , 

of option given to them , to subscribe to this Fund in ac 
1962 , after rule 35 , the following rule shall be inserted , cordance with these rules. 
namely : 

Note 5 ) In case of a Government servant who has 
" 35- A Deposit- linked Insurance Scheme. — On the death of been admitted to the benefits of the Fund under sub - rule (3 ) 
a sulcriber , the person entitled to receive the amount stand 

or sub - rulc ( 4 ) of rule 4 but dies before completion of three 
ing to the credit of the subscriber shall be paid by the 
Accounts Officer an additional amount equal to the average 

years service or , as the case may be, five years service from 
balance in the account during the 3 years immediately pre the date of his admission to the Fund , that period of his 
ceding the death of such subscriber , subject to the conditions service under the previous employer in respect whereof the 
that 

amount of his subscriptions and the employer s contribution , 

if any, together with interest have heen received , shall count 
( a ) the balance at the credit of such subscriber shall 
not at any time during the 3 years preceding the 

for purposes of clause (a ) and clause ( c ). 
month of death have fallen below tho limits of 

( b ) In case of persons appointed on tenure basis and in the 
( i) Rs. 3000 / - in the case of a subscriber who has case of re-employed pensioners, service rendered from the 

held , for the greater part of the aforesaid period dute of such appointment or re -employment, as the case may 
of three years , A post the maximum of the pay be , only will count for purposes of this rule . 
scale of which in Rs. 1300 / - or more ; 

(c ) This scheme does not apply 10 persons appointed on 
ii ) Rs. 2500 /- in the case of a subscriber who has 

contract basis . 
held , for the greater part of the aforesuid period 
of three years, 4 post the maximum of the pay 
scale of which is Rs . 900 / - or more but less than 

Note 6 . -- The budget estimates of expenditure in respect 
Rs. 1300 /- ; 

of this scheme will be prepared by the Accounts Officers res 

ponsible for maintenance of the accounts of the Fund having 
( iii) Rs. 1500 /- in the case of subscriber who has 

regard to the trend of expenditure, in the same manner as 
held , for the greater purt of the aforesaid period 

estimates are prepared for other retirement benefits ," 
of three years , a post the maximum of the pay 
scale of which is Rs. 290 /- or more but less 
than Rs, 900 / - ; 

EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 
( iv ) Rs. 1000 / - in the case of a subscriber who has 

heid , for the greater part of the aforesaid period The Contributory Provident Fund Rules ( India ), 1962 are 
of three years, 1 post the maximum of the pay 

being amended retrospectively with cffcct from 8th January , 
scale of which is less than Rs. 290 / -, 

1975 as the deposit -linked insurance scheme was introduced 
( b ) the additional amount payable under this rulc shall with effect from that date vide Ministry of Finance (Depart 
not excecd Rs. 10 , 000 /- ; 

ment of Expenditure ) O . M . No. F . 9 ( 10 )-FVIB / 73 dated the 

8th January , 1975 , No officer is likely to be adversely affect 
(C ) the subscriber has put in atleast 5 years service 

ed by these rules being given retrospective effect from Ath 
at the time of his death . 

January , 1975 


Note 1 ,-- The average balance shall be worked out on the 
basis of the balance at the credit of the subscriber at the 
end of euch of the 36 months preceding the month in which 


(No. 1 , 13( 10 )-EVIA ) / 76 - CPF ] 
S. S. I MALHOTRA , Under Secy. 


[ भाग II - - 


( ii ) ] 


भारत का राजपत्र : सितम्बर 24, 1977 / आश्विन 2, 1899 


3421 


सीमा - हलक तालीम उत्पादन शुल्क 

शिलांग, 3 जून , 1977 
केन्द्रीय उत्पादन गुरुक 


फा . पा . 2959: -- केन्द्रीय उत्पादन शुल्क नियम , 1944 के नियम 5 के अधीन मुले प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए तथा इस समाहर्तालय की 
दिनांक 1 -5- 67 की अधिसूचना सं0 2/ 20उ00/ 67 (केन्द्रीय उत्पादन शुल्क ) में प्रोशिक संशोधन करते हुए , मैं , एतदद्वारा इसके माप अनुब मारणी के 
फालम 3 में विनिविष्ट केन्द्रीय उत्पादन मल्क के अधिकारियों को अपने-अपने अधिकार क्षेत्रों में, उक्त सारणी के कालम 4 में दी गमी पाबंदियों तथा 
परिसीमामों के अधीन रहते हुए , उसके कालम 2 के भग्तर्गन नियम के उपबन्धों के अधीन, समाहर्ता की शक्तियों का प्रयोग करने का अधिकार देता हूं । 


सारणी 


क्रमम० 


टिप्पणियों 


केन्द्रीय उत्पादन शुल्क 

नियम मंख्या 


उन अधिकारियों को समाहर्ता की शक्तियों प्रतिबन्ध मोर परिसीमाएं , 

का प्रत्यायोजन , जो निम्नलिखित से कम यदि कोई हों तो 
मोहदे के नहीं हैं 


- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


192 


57 
( अधिसूचना सं० 2/20 

उ००/ 67 में अनु 
बत सारणी की ) 


केन्द्रीय उत्पादन शुल्क के अधीक्षक के प्रोहदे के पर्यवेक्षी कार्यों की लागतनिर्धारित 
तथा उमसे उच्च पोहदे के सभी अधिकारी करने मे संबंधित शक्तियों के 

अतिरिक्त मभी शक्तियां । 


[ म . 1/ 2 ० उ००/ 77 /सी०म०IV - 8/ 2/ 73/ 342 ] 

के . एम . साहा , समाहर्ता 


CUSTOMS & CENTRAL EXCISES 
Shillong, the 3rd June , 1977 

CENTRAL EXCISES 
S. O . 2959 -- In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Rule 5 of the Central Excise Rules , 1944 and in partial modi 
fication of this Collectorate Notification No. 2 / CE/67 (Central Excise ) dated 1-5 -67, I hereby empower the Central Excise Officers specified 
in column 3 of the table hereto annexed to exercise within their respective jurisdictions the power of Collector under the provisions of 
the Rules in column 2 of the said table , subject to the restriction and limitations set out in column 4 thereof. 


TABLE 


SI, No. 


Central Excise Rule No. 


Remarks 


Collector s powers delegated to 
officers not below the rank of 


Restriction and limitations if 

any 


1 . 


1 . 


2 


3 


192 


. 57 
(Of the table 
annoxod to 
Notificatiop 
No. 2/ CE/ 67) 


All officers of and above the All powers cxcept in regard to 

rapk of Superintendents of fixing the cost of supervising 
Central Excise. 

operations . 


INo . 1/ CE/ 77/ C. No. IV - 8/ 2/ 73 /342) 

K. S. SAHA, Collector 


80 GI/ 77 - 3 


धनकर 


3422 

THE GAZETTE OFINDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ ASVINA 2, 1899 [ PART II---- SEC. 3( iiyy 
- - - - - - - - - -- : - - - - - - - - - -- - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- .... 
घनकर मायुक्त कार्यालय, हरियाणा एवं चण्डीग 

8. कुलराज बहादुर रोमेश कुमार मनीमाजरा ( 1 ) एच ( 2 ) 

_ 1976- 77 ( 3 ) 114720 १० ( 4 ) 11223006 रु० ( 3 ) 
रोहतक , 9 मितम्बर , 1977 

2485 2 रु० ( 6 ) 24852 म० । 

[फा० म० 418( 5 )/ 77-78 मुख्या०] 

एम० एम० उधिनायर, धनकर प्रायुक्त 
का० आ० 2960:- - यम: केन्द्रीय मरकार की राय है कि लोकहित में 
यह प्रावश्यक तथा समीचीन है कि धनकर अधिनियम , 1957 ( 1957 OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF WEALTH TAX , 
का 27 ) के अधीन यहाँ इसके पश्चात् विमिदिष्ट ऐसे फरदातामों के नाम 

HARYANA & CHANDIGARH 
तथा अन्य विशिष्टियां प्रकाशित की जाएं , जिनका शुख धनवित्तीय वर्ष 
1976-77 के दौरान 10 लाख रुपये से अधिक निर्धारित किया गया है । 

Rohtak , the 9th September, 1977 
और यतः धनकर अधिनियम , 1957 ( 1957 का 27 ) की धारा 

WEALTH - TAX 
42-क द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का मथा इम निमित्त उमे समर्थ बनाने वाली 

S . O . 2960, -- Whereas the Central Govornment is of the 
भन्य मभी शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय मरकार ने अपने प्रावेश opinion that it is necessary and expedient in the public interest 

lo publish the names and other particulars herejnafter specified 
दिनाफ 7 जनवरी , 1975 के द्वारा धनकर के सभी प्रायुक्तों को अपने 

relating to assessces who have been assessed under the Wealth 
क्षेत्राधिकार में स्थित करदाताओं से मम्बिन्धित माम, पते, हेमियत तथा tax Act, 1957 ( 27 of 1957 ) on net wealth exceeding Rs. 10 

lakhs during financial ycar 1976 - 77 . 
निर्धारण वर्ष तथा ऐसे करदाताओं द्वारा विवरणित धन , निर्धारित किए 
गए धन, नया विसीय वर्ष 1976- 77 के दौरान देय धनकर तथा दिए 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 
गए धनकर को प्रकाशित करने के लिए प्राधिकृत किया है । 

42A of the Wealth-tax Act 1957 ( 27 of 1957 ) and all other 
powers enabling them in this behalf the Central Government 

has by its order dated 7 - 1 - 1975 , authorised all Commissionery 
अतः अब केन्द्रीय सरकार के उपर्युक्त दिनांक 7 जनवरी , 1975 

of Wealth - tax to publish the names , addresses , status and 
के आदेश के अनुसार प्रदत्त शक्तियों को प्रयोग करते हुए , मै एतद्वारा assessment year relating to assessces within their jurisdiction 

and wealth returned by , the wealth assessed on, the wealth 
इससे संलग्न अनुसूची में उपर्युक्त करदाताओं के नाम तथा विशिष्टियां tax payable by and the wealth -tax paid hy such assessces 
प्रकाशित करता हूं । 

during the financial year 1976 -77. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers comferred upon 
आय-कर विभाग 

me by the Central Government by its aforesaid order dated 
7 - 1 -1975 , I hereby publish in Schedule , hereto annexed , the 

names and other particulars of the asessees aforesaid . 
घनकर के ऐसे मभी करदातामों के नाम, जिनका शुद्ध धन विसीय वर्ष 
1976- 77 के दौरान 10 लाख रुपये से अधिक निर्धारित किया गया था । 

INCOME- TAX DEPARTMENT 
( I ) हैसियत के लिए है- - एच ( H ) हिन्दु अविभक्त कुटुम्ब और पाई Names of all Wealth -tax assessces assessed on net wealth 

exceeding Rs . 10 lakhs during the financial year 1976 - 77 (i ) 
( १ ) व्यक्तिगत के लिये, ( 2 ) कर निर्धारण वर्ष के लिए, ( 3 ) दी गई 

stands for status H for H . Ü . F . and I for individuals (il) 
शुद्ध धन विवरणी (रिटर्म ) के लिए , ( 4 ) निर्धारित शुद्ध धन के लिए for assessment ycar ( iii) for net wealth returned (iv ) for det 

wealth assessed ( v ) for tax payable and (vi) for tax paid . 
( 5 ) वेय कर के लिए, ( 8 ) दिए गए कर के लिए है । 

1. Sh . Rajiv Kumar C / O M /S Kiran Cinema, Chandigarh 
1. श्री राजीव कुमार द्वारा ममर्म किरन मिनेमा , चन्डीगढ़ ( 1 ) 

( i ) I ( ii ) 1975 - 76 (iii ) Rs. 8, 20, 550 ( iv ) Rs. 10 ,28, 100 ( v ) 
माई ( 2 ) 1975-76 ( 3 ) 830550 रु० ( 4 ) 1028 100 रु० Rs. 21124 ( vi) Rs. 21124. 
( 5 ) 211 24 रु० ( 6 ) 21124 20 | 

2. Sh. D . D . Puri , Yamunanagar ( i) I ( ii ) 1975 - 76 

(iii ) Rs. 10 , 30, 300 (iv ) Rs. 10 , 30 , 300 ( v ) Rs. 20 , 395 ( vi ) 
2. श्री सी०डी० पुरी , यमुनानगर ( 1 ) आई ( 2 ) 1975- 76 Rs. 20395 . 

( 3 ) 1030300 २० ( 4 ) 1030300 रु० ( 5 ) 20395 रु० 3 . Shakuntla Devi Jain 1. / W of Sh . Nem Sagar Jain , 
( 6 ) 20395 रु० । 

Rewari ( i) I (ii) 1967 - 68 (iii ) Rs. 9 , 88, 200 (iv) Rs. 12 , 34 , 940 

( v ) Rs . 11278 ( vi ) Rs . 6956 . 
3. शकुन्तला देवी जैन एल पम्ल्यू श्री नेम सागर जन रेवाड़ी ( 1 ) 

___ 4. Sh. Girish Mohan Ganeriwala, Sirsa ( i) ( i) 1970- 71 
___ भाई ( 2 ) 1967- 68 ( 3 ) 988200 रु० ( 4 ) 1234940 रु . ( iii ) Rs. 19 , 39, 100 (iv ) Rs. 21 , 39, 620 ( v ) Rs. 36 , 189 ( vi ) 
( 5 ) 11 278 रु० ( 6 ) 8956 रु० । 

Rs. 36, 189. 
4 श्री गिरिश मोहन गनेरी वाला, सिरसा ( 1 ) माई ( 2 ) 5 . Sh. Girish Mohan Ganeriwala, Sirsa (i) I (ii) 1971 - 72 
1970- 71 ( 3 ) 19.39100 रु० ( 4 ) 2139620 रु० ( 5 ) 

( iii ) Rs. 20,82,980 (iv ) Rs. 23, 62. 300 ( v ) Rs. 67, 115 

( vi ) Rs. 67115. 
36189 30 ( 6 ) 3618 9 २० । 

6 . Sh. Girish Mohan Ganeriwala , Sirsa (i) I ( i ) 1972 - 73 
5 श्री गिरिश मोहन गनेरी वाला, सिरसा ( 1 ) प्राई ( 2 ) (iii ) Rs. 21, 90, 780 (iv ) Rs. 25,95, 670 ( v ) Rs. 117654 ( vi ) 
1971- 72 ( 3 ) 208 2980 रु० ( 4 ) 2362300 म० ( 5 ) 

Rs. 117654 . 
67115 0 0 ( 6 ) 67115 रु० । 

7. Kulraj Bahadur Ramesh Kumar , Mavimajra (i) H ( ii ) 
G. श्री गिरिश मोहन गनेरी वाला, मिरमा ( 1 ) आई ( 2 ) 

1976- 77 (iii ) Rs. 10 , 71 , 700 ( iv ) Rs. 10, 71 , 700 ( v ) Rs. 22, 868 

( vi ) Rs. 22 , 868. 
1972-73 ( 3 ) 2190780 रु० ( 4) 2595670 रु० ( 5 ) 
117654 रु० ( 6 ) 117654 रु० । 

8. Kulraj Bahadur Romesh Kumar , Manimajra (i ) H ( i ) 
1976 - 77 (iii ) Rs, 11, 47 , 206 (iv ) Rs . 11 . 22 ,300 ( v ) Rs . 24, 852 

( vi ) Rs. 24, 852 .. 
7. कुलराज बहादुर रोमेश कुमार, मनीमाजरा ( 1 ) एच ( 2 ) 
1975- 76 ( 3 ) 1071700 रु० ( 4 ) 1071700 रु० ( 5 ) 

[ F. No, 418(5 ) / 77- 78 / HQ] 
22868 20 ( 6 ) 22868 20 | 

M . S . UNNINAYAR , Commissioner of Wealth Tax . 


[ भाग II -- बण्ड 3(ii) ] 


भारत का राजपत्र : सितम्बर 21, 1977/ आश्विन 2, 1899 


3423 


- 


- . 


an - . . . 


. . 


. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- . . . 


बाणिज्य मंत्रालय 
মায়া 


नई दिल्ली, 24मितम्बर , 1977 


का० आ . 296 1:-- - केन्द्रीय सरकार की गय है कि भारत के निर्यात 
व्यापार के विकाग के लिए निर्यात ( क्वालिटी नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण ) 
अधिनियम , 1963 ( 1983 फा 22 ) की धारा 6 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियो 
का प्रयोग करते हुए वाल्वों को , निर्यात में पूर्व, क्वालिटी नियंत्रण और 
निरीक्षण के अधीन करना आवश्यक नथा ममीचीन है , 


और केन्द्रीय मरकार ने नीचे विनिर्दिष्ट कमिपय प्रम्नाव उक्त प्रयोजन 
के लिए तैयार किए है नथा उन्हें , निर्यात ( क्वालिटी नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण ) 
नियम, 1964 के नियम 11 के उप -नियम ( 2) की अपेक्षानुमार निर्यात 
निरीक्षण परिषद को भेज दिया है , 


प्रम. अब , उक्त उप -नियम के अनमरण में केन्द्रीय माफार उक्त प्रस्तावो 
को उन सभी लोगों की जानकारी के लिए प्रकाणिन करती है जिनके 
उनसे प्रभावित होने की संभावना है । 

2 सूचना दी जाती है कि यदि कोई व्यक्ति उक्त प्रम्नावों के मारे 
में कोई प्राक्षेग या मुमाव देना चाहे तो वह उन्हें, इम प्रादेश के राजपत्र 
में प्रकाशन की तारीख से पैतालीम दिन के भीतर-निर्यात निरीक्षण 
परिपत्, “बई ट्रेड सेन्टर , 14/ 1-बी . एजरा स्ट्रीट , ( पाठवी मंजिन ) 
कलकसा-700001 को भेज गकता है । 


( 2) इस प्रादेश की कोई भी मात जल , थल या वायु मार्ग द्वारा 
भागी ऋतामों को वाल्बों के उन नमूनों के निर्यात को लागू नहीं होगी , 
जिनका मूल्य 500 २० से अधिक न हो । 

___ 3. इस आदेश में वाल्वों से द्रव्यो , गैमो या वाष्प के प्रवाह का 
नियंत्रित करने के लिए पाइप लाइनों में प्रयुक्त युक्ति अभिप्रेम है किन्तु 
इसमें घरेलू प्रयोजनों के लिए प्रयुक्त विब-टोटी तथा नल तथा दबाव 
नियंत्रक बाल्य मम्मिलित नहीं होंगे । 

उपाबंध---- 
(निर्यात क्वालिटी नियन्त्रण तथा निरीक्षण ) अधिनियम, 1963 ( 1963 का 
22 ) की धारा 17 के अधीन बनाए जाने के लिए प्रस्तावित 

नियमों का प्रारूप ) 
1 मंक्षिप्त नाम. --- कुन नियमों का संक्षिप्त नाम बास्यो के निर्यात 
(निरीक्षण ) नियम , 1977 है । 

2. परिभाषाएं.---- इन नियमो में , जम मक कि संदर्भ में अन्यथा 
अपेभिन न हो । 
( क ) अधिनियम में निर्यात ( क्वालिटी नियंत्रण तथा निरीक्षण ) 

अधिनियम , 1963 अभिप्रेन है ; 
( ख ) अभिकरण में अधिनियम की धारा 7 के अधीन मुम्बई , 

कालकना, कोचीन , दिल्ली तथा मद्रास में स्थापित अभिकरणों 

मे से कोई अभिप्रेत है ; 
( ग ) वाल्व मे द्रव्या, गैसों या वाष्प के प्रवाह को नियन्त्रित करने 

के लिए पाइप- लाइनों में प्रयुक्त युक्ति अभिप्रेत है ; किन्तु 
इममे घरेलू प्रयोजनों के लिए प्रयुक्त बिंब- टोटी नम तथा व 

नियंत्रक वाल्व मम्मिलित मही होंगे । 
3. निरीक्षण का प्राधार: --निर्यात के लिए वास्यों का निरीक्षण 
यह देखने के विचार से किया जाएगा कि वाल्व अधिनियम की धारा 6 
के अधीन केन्द्रीय मरकार द्वारा मान्य विनिवेशों के अनुरूप है, तथा 
निर्यात संविदा में किमी भी विनिर्दिष्ट अनुबंधो के अभाव में , इन नियमों 
में अनुबल अनुसूची में वर्णित नमूना लेकर निरीक्षण करने एवं मानकों 
की अनुरूपता के सिद्धांत का पालन किया जाएगा । 

4. निरीक्षण की प्रक्रिया .--- ( 1 ) ( क ) वाल्वों का निर्यात करने 
का इच्छक निर्यात कर्ता अपना ऐमा करने में अपने प्राशय की सूचना 
लिन्धित साप में देना तथा ऐसी सूचना के साथ, निर्यात संविदा में दिए 
गए विनिर्देशों की घोषणा, मभी तकनीकी विशेषतामों का विवरण देने 
हुए, एक अभिकरण का देगा जिमसे कि वह नियम 3 के अनुसरण में 
निरीक्षण कर मके, मथा वह उसी समय निरीक्षण के लिए अपनी उम 
मूचना की एक प्रतिलिपि अभिकरण कार्यालय के निकटतम परिषद् कार्यालय 
को बंगा । 


प्रस्ताव 


( 1 ) यह अधिसूचित करना कि वाल्व निर्यात में पूर्व क्वालिटी 
नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण के अधीन होगे । 

( 2 ) इस मादेश के उपाबंध- 1 में दिए गए, वाल्वो के निर्यात 
(निरीक्षण ) नियम , 1977 के प्रारूप के अनुमार निरीक्षण के प्रकार को 
क्वालिटी नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण के ऐसे प्रकार के मप मे विनिर्दिष्ट 
करना जो कि निर्यात से पूर्व ऐसे वाल्वों को लागू होगा ; 


( 3 ) निम्नलिम्बित को मान्यता देना:---- 

( क ) भारतीय या कोई अन्य राष्ट्रीय या अन्तर्राष्ट्रीय मानक ; 
( ब ) पायातकर्ता देश के मंत्रालय या सरकारी विभागों या जन 

उपादेय संस्थानों द्वारा अनुमोदित मानक जो ऐसे वाल्यों के 
लिए संविदात्मक विनिर्देश के रूप में निर्यात कर्ता द्वारा 
घोषित किए गए हैं ; 


( ग ) निर्यात कर्ता द्वारा मविदात्मक विनिर्देशों के रूप में घोषित 

विनिर्देश , जो खंड ( क ) तथा ( ख ) के अन्तर्गत नही पाते , 
किन्नु ऐसे मानकों की परीक्षा तथा अनुमोदन के प्रयोजन के 
लिए निर्यात निरीक्षण परिषद् द्वारा नियुक्त विशेषज्ञों के 

पैनल द्वारा अनुमोदित किए गए हों ; 
ऐमे वास्यो के लिए मानक विनिर्देशो के रूप में ; 


( 4 ) अन्तराष्ट्रीय व्यापार के दौरान एमे पाल्यों के निर्यात को 
नब सक प्रतिषित करना जब तक कि उसके माय निर्यात ( क्वालिटी 
नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण ) नियम , 1963 ( 1963 का 22 ) की धारा 
7 के अंतर्गत म्थापिन अभिकरणों में से किमी के द्वारा जारी किया गया 
इस आशय का प्रमाणपत्र न हो कि वाल्बों का परेषण क्वालिटी नियत्रण 
और निरीक्षण के. मंबंधित शर्तों को पूरा करता है तथा निर्यात योग्य है, 
अथवा जब तक उन पर उक्त अभिकरण की धारा ५ के अन्तर्गत केन्द्रीय 
मरकार द्वारा मान्य चिन्ह या सील लगी हो । 


( ख ) परिषद के पते इस प्रकार है --- 
मध्य कार्यालय 

क्षेत्रीय कार्यालय 
निर्यात निरीक्षण परिषद् ( 1 ) निर्यात निरीक्षण परिषद् , 
वल्र्ड ट्रेड सेन्टर , 

अमन चैम्बर्स ( पाचवी मंजिल ) , 
11/ 1- बी, एजग स्ट्रीट ( पाठवा 113, महर्षि कर्वे रोड , 
मंजिल ) कनकमा- 700001 मुम्बई- 4 

( 2 ) निर्यात मिरीक्षण परिषद् , 

मनोहर बिल्डिंग, महात्मा गाधी रोड , 

एर्नाकुलम्, कोचीन- 6K 2011 
( 3 ) निर्यात निरीक्षण परिषद्, 

म्यूनिसिपल मार्केट विलिंग( पाचवी मंजिल), 
गरस्वती मार्ग, करोल बाग , नई दिल्ली 
110005 


3424 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ ASVINA 2 , 1899 


[ PART II - Sec. 3( ) 


- - - 


- - 


- 


( 2) उप-नियम ( 1 ) के अधीन प्रत्येक सूचना तथा पोषणा पोतसदान 
की अनुसूचित तारीख से कम से कम सात दिन पहले अभिकरण तथा 
परिषद् के कार्यालय पहुंच जानी चाहिए । 

( 3) उप-नियम ( 2) के अंतर्गत सूचना तथा घोषणा प्राप्त होने 
पर, अभिकरण नियम 3 तथा इस संबंध में परिषद् द्वारा जारी किए 
गए अनुदेशों के, यदि कोई हों , अनुसार बाल्वों का निरीक्षण करेगा । 


अनुसूची 
( नियम 3 देखिए ) 
नमूना सारणी 


नॉट प्राकार 


निरीक्षण तथा परीक्षण दोषों की 
के लिए, लिए गए अनुज्ञेय संख्या 
नमूनों की संख्या 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) ( क ) निरीक्षण पूरा हो जाने के पश्चात् तुरन्त अभिकरण 
परेषण के पैकेजों को इस ढंग से सील बंद करेगा कि यह मुनिश्चित 
हो जाए कि सील बंद किए गए माल के माप छेड- छाड़ नहीं की जा 
सकती । 


( ब ) अस्वीकृति की दशा में , यदि निर्यात कर्ता पाहे तो परेषण 
को अभिकरण द्वारा सील नहीं किया जाएगा किन्तु ऐसे मामलों में निर्यात 
कर्ता अम्वीकृति के विरुद्ध अपील करने का हकदार नहीं होगा । 

( 5 ) जम अभिकरण का यह समाधान हो जाता है कि वास्वों का 
परेषण नियम 3 की अपेक्षाओं को पूरा करता है सब बह निरीक्षण पूरा 
हो जाने के 3 दिन के भीतर, निर्यात कर्ता को यह घोषणा करते हुए , 
प्रमाणपत्र जारी करेगा कि परेषण निर्यात योग्य है । 


15 तक 
16 से 25 
26 से 100 
101से 150 
151 में 300 
30 से 500 
50 1से 10000 
1000 तया अधिक 


परन्तु जहां अभिकरण का इस प्रकार का समाधान नहीं होता है यहां 
यह उक्त तीन दिन की अवधि के भीतर ऐमा प्रमाणपत्र देने से इंकार 
कर देगा तथा इस प्रकार इंकार किए जाने की सूचना उमके कारणों 
महित निर्यात कर्ता को देगा । 


( 6 ) अभिकरण द्वारा जब भी अपेक्षा की जाए, निर्यातकर्ता निर्यात 
किए जाने वाले परेषण में से पाल्यों के नमूने निःशुल्क वेगा ; किन्तु नमूने 
निरीक्षण एवं परीक्षण करने के पश्चात् अभिकरण द्वारा वापिस कर दिए 
जाएंगे । 


उपायंघ - -- 2 
निर्यात ( क्वालिटी नियंत्रण पोर निरीक्षण ) अधिनियम , 1963 
( 1963 का 22 ) की धारा 8 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार यह द्योतन करने के प्रयोजन के लिए वाल्वों के 
संबंध में भारतीय मानक संस्थान प्रमाणीकरण चिन्ह को मान्यता 
देने का प्रस्ताव करती है कि जहां वास्वों पर ऐसे चिन्ह लगाए गए हैं 
वहां वे उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 के खंर ( ग ) के अधीन उस पर 
लागू होने वाले मानक विनिर्देश के अनुरूप समझे जाएंगे । 

परिभाषा:- - इस अधिसूचमा में वाल्व से द्रव्यों, गैसों या वाष्प के 
प्रवाह को नियंत्रित करने के लिए पाइप लाइनों में प्रयुक्त युक्ति अभिप्रेत है, 
किन्तु इममें घरेलू प्रयोजनों के लिए प्रयुक्त चिय -टोंटी तथा नल तथा 
दवाव नियनिक पाल्व सम्मिलित मही किए जाएंगे । 

[सं० 6 ( 10)/ 75-नि०नि० तथा नि० ज० ] 

के० वी० बालमुब्रह्मणियम् , उप निदेशक 


5. निरीक्षण का स्थान.-इन नियमों के प्रयोजन के लिए वास्मों का 
निरीक्षण - -- 

( क ) विनिर्माता के परिसर में , किया जाएगा, या 
( ब ) उन परिसरों में , जहां निर्यातकर्ता द्वारा माल प्रस्तुत किया 

___ जाता है, किया जाएगा , 
परन्तु तभी जब कि यहां इस प्रयोजन के लिए पर्याप्त मुविधाए विद्यमान 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 


ORDER 


New Delhi , the 24th September, 1977 


6. निरीक्षण फीस:- -पोत पर्यन्त निःशुल्क मूल्य के 0 . 5 प्रतिशत 
की दर से फीम निर्यात कर्ता द्वारा अभिकरण को इन नियमों के अधीन 
निरीक्षण फीम के रूप में दी जाएगी किन्तु प्रत्येक परेषण के लिए यह 
फीस कम से कम एक मौ रूपए होगी । 


S . 0 . 2961. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion 
that it is necessary and expedient so to do for the develop 
ment of the Export Trade of India thut in exercise of the 
powers conferred by section 6 of the Export ( Quality Control 
and Inspection) Act , 1963 ( 22 of 1963 ), valves should be 
subject to inspection prior to export ; 


____ 7. अपीस : - - ( 1 ) नियम 4 के उप -नियम ( 5 ) के अधीन प्रमाण 
पत्र देने से अभिकरण द्वारा इकार किए जाने से व्यपिन कोई व्यक्ति 
इस प्रकार इंकार किए जाने की सूचना के उसे प्राप्त होने से 10 दिन 
के भीतर, व्यक्तियों के विशेषज्ञ को अपील कर सकेगा जिसमें इस प्रयोजन 
के लिए केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा कम से कम 3 तथा अधिक से अधिक 
मात व्यक्ति नियुक्त किए जाएंगे । 


And whereas the Central Government has formulated cer 
tajn proposals specified below for the said purpose and has 
forwarded the same to the Export Inspection Council, as 
required by sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 11 of the Export ( Quality 
Control and Inspection) Rules, 1964 ; 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of the said sub -rule the Cen 
tral Government hereby publishes the said proposals for in 
formation of the public likely to be affected thereby. 


( 2 ) विशेषज्ञों के पैनल की कुल मत्स्यता के वो-तिहाई मषम्य 
गैर- सरकारी होंगे । 

( 3 ) पैनल की गणपूर्ति तीन की होगी । 
( 4) प्राप्त होने के 15 दिनों के भीतर अपील निपटा दी जाएगी । 


2 . Notice is hereby given that any person desiring to for 
ward any objections or suggestions with respect to the said 
proposals may forward the same within fortyfive days from 
the date of publication of this Order in the Ofllicial Gazette 
to the Export Inspection Council , World Trade Centre ( 7th 
Floor), 14 / 1B , Ezra Street, Calcutta - 700001. 


[011 II -- qu 3 (ii)] 


HTCTT (TUTE : FART 24, 1977 /31f447 2, 1899 


3425 


REVU 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


- 


(b ) The addresscs of the Council are as under : - - 
Head Offic 

Regional Office 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


PROPOSALS 
( 1 ) To notify that valves shall be subject to quality control 
and inspection prior to export ; 

(2 ) To specify the type of inspection in accordance with 
the draft Export of Valves (Inspection ) Rules, 1977 set out! 
in Annexure I to this Order as the type of quality control 
and Inspection which shall be applied to such valves prior 
to export ; 
(3) To recognise. . 
(a ) the Indian or any other national or international 

standards ; 
(b ) standards approved by a Ministry or Government 

Department of Public Utility Board of the importing 
country declared by the exporter as the contractual 

specification for guch valves and ; 
( c ) the specifications declared by the exporter as the 

contractual specifications which do not fall under 
clauscs ( a ) and ( b ) but approved by a panel of 
Experts appointed by the Export Inspection Council 
for the purpose of cxamining and approving such 
standards : 

as the standard specifications for such valves ; 
(4 ) To prohibit the export in the course of international 
trade of such valves unless the same arc accompanied by a 
certificate issued by any of the Agencies established under 
section 7 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection ) Act, 
1963 (22 of 1963 ) to the effect that the consignment of valves 
satisfy the condition relating to quality control and inspection 
and is exportworthy; or aflixed with a seal or mark recognised 
by the Central Government under section 8 of the said Aci. 

2 . Nothing in this order shall apply to the export by land , 
sea or air samples of valves to prospective buyers, the value 
of which does not exceed Rs. 500 . 

3 . In this order " valves " shall mean a device used in pipe 
lines for regulating the flow of liquids, gases or steam but 
shall not include bib - cocks and taps used for domestic pur 
poses and pressure regulating valves. 


Export Jaspection Council, (1) Export Inspection Council 
" World Trade Centre " 

Aman Chambers ( 4th Floor ) 
14 /1B Ezra Street ( 7th Floor) 113, M . Karve Road , 
Calcutta - 700001. 

Bombay- 4 . 
(2) Export Inspection Council," 

Manohar Buildings 
Mahatma Gandhi Road , 

Ernakulam , 

Cochin -682011 . 
( 3) Export Inspection Council , 

Municipal Market Building 
( 4th Floor) 
Saraswati Marg , Karol 
Bagh , New Delhi- 11000S 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


(2 ) Every intimation and declaration under sub -rulo (1 ) 
shall reach the office of the Agency and the Council not 
less than seven days before the scheduled date of shipment. 

(3 ) On receipt of the intimation and declaration under sub 
rule ( 2 ) the Agency shall carry out the inspection of valves 
in accordance with rule 3 and the instructions, if any , issued 
by the Council in this regard . 


(4 ) (a ) After completion of inspection Agency shall imme 
diately scal the packages in the consignment in a manner 80 
as to ensure that the sealed goods cannot be tampered with , 


( b ) In case of rejection , if the exporter so desires, the con 
signment muy not be scaled by the Agency ; so however in 
such cases , the exporter shall pot be entitled to prefer any 
appeal against the rejection . 


ANNEXURE I 


Draft rules proposed to be made under section 17 of the 
Export ( Quality Control and Inspection ) Act, 1963 ( 22 of 

1963) 


( 5 ) When the Agency is satisfied that the consignment of 
valves complics with the requirement of rule 3 , it shall within 
tbrec days of completion of inspection , issue a certificato to 
the exporter declaring that the consignment is exportworthy : 

Provided that where the Agency is not so satisfied it shall 
within the said period of three days refuse to issue such certi 
ficate and communicate such refusal to the exporter along 
with the reasons therefor . 

(6 ) As and when required by the Agency , the exporter shall 
supply freo of charge sahiples of valves from the export con 
sigament , the samples shall, however, be returned by the 
Agency after necessary inspection and testing . 


1. Short title . — These rules may be called the Export of 
Valves (Inspection ) Rules, 1977. 


2 . Definitions . In these rules, unless the context other 
wise requires :-- 
( a ) Act means the Export (Quality Control and Inspec 

tion ) Act, 1963; 
(b ) Agency means any of the Agencies established at 

Bombay, Calcutta , Cochin , Delhi and Madras under 

section 7 of the Act ; 
(c) Valves shall mean a device used in pipe lines for 

regulating the flow of liquids , gases or steam ; but 
shall not include bib -cocks and taps used for domes 
tic purposes and pressure regulating valves . 


5. Place of inspection . Inspection of valves for the purpose 
of these rules shall be carried out :- - 

(a ) at the premises of the manufacturer, 


or 


(b ) at the premises at which the valves are offered by the 

exporter provided adequate facilities for the purpose 
еxіѕt thеrеіn , 


6 . Inspection Fee . Subject to a minimum of rupees one 
hundred for each consignment, a fee at the rate of 0 . 5 per 
cent of f.o .b , value , shall be paid by the exporter to the 
Agency as inspection fee under these rules. 


3 . Basis of Inspection .. . Inspection of valves for export shall 
be carried out with a view to seeing that the valves confojm 
to the standard specifications recognized by the Central Gov 
ernment under section 6 of the Act and in the absence of any 
specific stipulation in the export contract, the sampling and 
criteria of conformity mentioned in the Schedule annexed to 
these rules shall be followed , 


7 . " Appeal" . — ( 1 ) Any person aggrieved by tbe refusal of 
the Agency to issue a certificate under sub - rule ( 5 ) of rule 4 . 
may, within ten days of the receipt of the communication of 
such refusal by him prefer an appeal to a Panel of Experts 
consisting of not less than three but not more than seven 
persons, appointed for the purpose by the Central Government. 


(2 ) At least two third of the total membership of the Panel 
of Experts shall consist of non - officials . 


4 . Procedure of Inspection . - ( 1 )(n ) Any exporter intending 
to expost valves shall give intimation in writing of his inten 
tion so to do and submit along with such intimation a decla 
ration of the specifications stipulated in the cxport coptract 
giving details of all the technical characteristics to any agency 
to enable it to carry out inspection in accordance with rulc 
3 and he shall at the same time endorse a copy of such inti 
mation for inspection to the office of Council nearest to the 
office of the Agency . 


(3) The quorum for the Panel shall be three. 

(4 ) The appeal shall be disposed of withir. 15 days of its 
receipt. 


- 


- 


. . . 


3426 THE GAZETTE OFINDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977 / ASVINA 2 , 1899 

[ PART II - SEC . 3(ii)] 
- - ..... . . - - -- - - 
THE SCHEDULE 

इसलिए , समय समय पर यथासंशोधित पायात (नियंत्रण ) प्रादेश 1955 
( SEE RULE 3 ) 

को धारा 9 को उपधारा ( प ) द्वारा प्रदत अधिकारों का प्रयोग कर अधी 
SAMPLING TABLE 

हस्ताक्षरी फर्म के पक्ष में जारी किए गए पूर्वोक्त लाइसेंस को एतद्वारा 
LOT SIZE NUMBER OF SAMPLES TO BE PERMISSIBLE रह करना है । 
DRAWN FOR INSPECTION NUMBER OF 

[ मख्या जमी / 55/ ईसीए/ 77] 
AND TESTING 

DEFECTIVES 

( Office of the Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 
Upto 15 
16 to 25 

ORDER 
26 to 100 

Madras, the 30th March . 1977 
101 to 150 
151 to 300 

S . O . 2962 . - M / s . Suresh Kumar S ., 1 /204, Govindappa 

Naicken St., Madras - 1 , were issued a licence No. P / E / 0264203 
301 to 500 

dated 15 - 3 -1977 for Rs. 2 ,00 , 000 for import of Dry Fruits for 
501 to 1000 

the period AM 77 . 
1001 and above 

It has been noticed that the above licence has been issued 
ANNEXURE JI 

inadvertently . 
Whereas the Central Government in exercise of the powers 

Therefore, a show cause notice No. JC / 55 / ECA/ 77 dated 

18- 3 - 1977 under Clause 9 ( a ) of the Jmports ( Control) Order , 
conferred by section 8 of the Export ( Quality Control and 
Jnspection) Act, 1963 ( 22 of 1963), proposes to recognise the 

1955 _ ns amended from time to time, was issued to M / s. 
Indian Standards Institution Certification Mark with respect 

Suresh Kumar , S., asking them to show cause within a speci. 
to valvcs for the purpose of denoting that where valves are 

fied time as to why the said licence should not be cancelled 
affixed with such mark they shall be deemed to be in conſor 

for the reasons mentioned above . An opportunity for per 
mity with thc standard specification ipplicable thereto under yonal hearing was also given 10 represent their case . In reply 
clause ( c) of section 6 of the said Act ; 

to the show calise notice , though they have sent a letter dated 

24- 3 -1977 through their Advocate stating that the licence 
___ Definition. --- In this Notification " Valves " shall mean a has been issued correctly as per Public Notice , but in their 
device used in pipe lines for regulating the Now of liquid , subsequent letter dated 29- 3 - 1977, they had appreciated the 
gages or steam but shall not include hibcocks and taps used show cause notice and that they did not press for the resto . 
for domestic purposes and pressure regulating valves. 

ration of the licence in quçstion or a personal hearing and that 

they did not wish to embarass the Government. 
INo. 6(10) /75- El & EP ] 
K. V. BALASUBRAMANIAM, Dy. Director Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding 

paragraphs, the undersigned is satisfied that the licence in 
question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered ineffective. 
Therefore, the undersigned in exercise of the powers vested in 

him under Sub -Clause ( 22 ) of the clause 9 of the Imports 
( संयुक्त मुख्य नियंत्रक, आयात निर्यात का कार्यालय ) 

( Control) Order , 1955 , as amended from time to time, hereby 
मद्रास , ३() मार्च, 1977 

cancel the licence mentioned above issued in favour of the 
above firm. 


४४ 


[ File No. JC /55 /ECA /77] 


प्रादेश 


का० भा० 2963. -.- सर्वश्री फल चन्द ए. जैन , 3 I, गोविन्दप्पा नायकम 
स्ट्रीट , मद्राम 1 का अप्रैल मार्च 1977 की अवधि के लिए 2, 00, 000 
रुपए मूल्य के सूखे फल का प्रायान करने के लिए लाइसेम मरया पी / ई / 
1) 26 1205 दिनांक 15- 3- 77 प्रदान किया गया था । 

यह देखा गया है कि पूर्वोक्त लाइमम भूल से जारी कर दिया 
गया है । 


का० प्रा० 2962. ---सर्वश्री सुरेश कुमार एम० 1/ 204 गोविन्दप्पा 
नायकन स्ट्रीट , मवाम 1 को अप्रैल -मार्च 1977 की अवधि के लिए 
2, 00, 000 रुपए मूल्य के सूखे फल का प्रायास करने के लिए लाइमम 
मंख्या पी० /६० / 0264203 दिनांक 1 5- 3- 77 प्रवान किया गया था । 

यह देखा गया है कि पूर्वोक्त लाइसेम भूल से जारी कर दिया 
गया है । 

इसलिए, समय -समय पर यथासंशोधित पायात (नियन्त्रण ) आदेश , 
1955 की धारा 9 ( प ) के अधीन एक कारण बतायो सूचना संख्या 
जेसी/ 55 / ईमीए/ 77 दिनाक 18- 3- 77 सर्वश्री सुरेश कुमार एम० को यह 
पूछने हुए जारी की गयी थी कि निर्दिष्ट समय के भीतर कारण बताएं 
कि उक्त लाइसेंस ऊपर उल्लिखित कारण की वजह से रद्द क्यों नही कर 
दिया जाए । उन्हें अपने मामले के लिए प्रतिवेदन करने के लिए व्यक्तिगत 
सुनवाई का अवसर भी दिया गया था । कारण बतानो मोटिम के जवाब में 
ययपि उन्होंने अपने वकील के माध्यम से दिनाक 2 1- 3- 77 को एक पत्र 
यह कहते हुए भेजा है कि लाइसेंम मार्वजनिक सूचना के अमुमार ठीक 
जारी किया गया था , परन्तु उसके बाद 29-3- 77 के पत्र में उन्होंने 
कारण बताओ नोटिम को स्वीकार किया और उन्होंने न तो उक्त लाइसेम 
को वापिस करने के लिए या न ही व्यक्तिगत सुनवाई के लिए कहा और 
वे मरकार की परेशान करना नहीं चाहते थे । 

पूर्वोक्त, पैराग्राफ में जो कुछ पहा गया है उगे ध्यान में रखते हुए , 
प्रधोहस्ताक्षरी हम बात में मन्तुष्ट है कि उक्त लाइभैस को रद्द करदिया। 
जाना चाहिए या अन्यथा मप में अप्रभावी कर दिया जाना चाहिए । 


इमलिए , ममय समय पर यथासंशोधित पायात (नियंत्रण ) प्रादेश , 
19 55 की धारा १ ( ए ) के अधीन एक कारण मसानो सूचना संख्या 
जेमी / 55 / ईसीए / 77 दिनांक 18- 3- 77 सर्वश्री फुल चन्द्र ए . जैन को यह 
पूछने हा आरी की गयी थी कि निर्दिष्ट समय के भीतर कारण बताए 
कि उक्त लाइमम ऊपर उल्लिखित कारण की वजह से रद्द क्यो नही कर 
दिया जाए । उन्हें अपने मामय के लिए प्रतिवेदन करने के लिए व्यक्तिगत 
सुनवाई का अवसर भी दिया गया था । कारण बतानो नोटिस के जवाब में 
यद्यपि उन्होंने अपने वकील के माध्यम मे दिनाक 24- 3- 77 को एक पत्र 
यह कहते हुए भेजा है कि इसम मार्वजनिक सूचना के अनुसार ठीक 
जारी किया गया था परन्तु उसके बाद 29 - 3- 77 के पत्र में उन्होंने कारण 
बनायो नोटिम को स्वीकार किया और उन्होंने न तो उक्त लाइम म को 
पापिस करने के लिए पा न ही व्यक्तिगत मनवाई लिए कहा और ये 
सरकार को परेशान करना नहा चाहत थ । 


- 


. . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


भाग II - खण्ड 3 ( ii ) ] धारत का राजपत्र : सितम्बर 24, 1977/ आश्विन 2, 1899 

3427 

- - - - -- -- -- -- - - - - -- - - - --- - - - -- - - ---- 
पूर्वोक्त पैराग्राफ में जो कुछ कहा गया है उसे ध्यान में रखते हुए , इसलिए समय -समय पर यथा संशोधित पायात (नियंत्रण ) प्रादेश , 1955 
प्रयोहानाक्षरी इस बात से सन्तुष्ट है कि उक्त लाइम को रद्द कर दिया की धारा 9 को उपधारा ( ए ) द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग कर 
जाना चाहिए या अन्यथा रूप से अप्रभावी कर दिया जाना चाहिए मधाहस्ताक्षरी फर्म को जारी किए गए पूर्वोक्त लाइसेस को एतद्वारा 
इसलिए , ममय समय पर पयामंशोधत प्रायान (नियंत्रण ) प्रादेश 1955 रह करता है । 
की धारा ५ को उपधारा ( प.) द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग कर 

[मिमिल मंच्या जेसी/ 55/ 5मीए / 77] 
अधोहस्ताक्षरी फर्म के पक्ष में जारी किए गए पूर्वोक्त लावमेम को एतद्द्वारा 
रद्द करता है । 

ORDER 
[संख्या जेमी / 55/ ईसीए / 77 ] 

S . O . 2964. - M / 9. Sri Jagatamba Company, 4 , Thabu 

Naicken St. , Madras - 1 were issued a licence No. P / E / 
ORDER 

0264211 dated 15 - 3 - 1977 for Rs . 2, 00 , 000 for import of Dry 

Fruits for the period AM 1977 . 
S . 0 . 2963. -.- M / S. Poolchand A . Jain, 31 , Govindappa 

It has been noticed that the above licence has been issued 
Naicken St., Madras - 1 , were issued a licence No . P / E /0264205 
dated 15 - 3 - 1977 for Rs. 2 lakh for Import of Dry Fruits 

inadvertently . 
for the period AM 1977 . 

Therefore, a show cause notice dated 18 - 3 - 1977 urder 

Clause 9 (a ) of the Imports (Control) Order , 1955 as amended 
It has been noticed that the above licence has been issued 

from time to time, was issued to M / s . Sri Jagatamba Co ., 
inadvertently . 

asking them to show causc within a specified time as to why 

the said licence should not be cancelled for the reason men 
Therefore, a show causc notice No . JC / 55/ ECA / 77 dated 

tioned above. An opportunity for personnel hearing was 
18 - 3 - 1977 under Clause 9 ( a ) of the Imports ( Control) Order , 

also given to represent their case . But the firm bave stated 
1955 as amended from time to time, was issued to M / s. 

in their letter dated 26 - 3 - 1977 that they have already handed 
Poolchand A . Jain , asking them to show causc within a 

over the licence and that they do not wish to avail personal 
specified time as to why the said licence should not be 

hearing on 4 - 4 - 1977 and had requested for finalisation of their 
cancelled for the reason mentioned above . An opportunity 

application. 
for personal hearing was also given to represent their case . 
In reply to show cause notice, though they have sent a letter 

Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding para 
dated 24 - 3 - 1977 through their Advocate stating that the licence graphs, the undersigned ly satisfied that the licence in question 
has beerr issued correctly as per Public Notice but in their should be cancelled or otherwise rendered ineffective . Therefore , 
subscquent letter dated 29 - 3 - 1977, they had appreciated the the undersigned in exercise of the powers vested in him under 
show cause notice and that they did not press for the restora Şub -Clause ( a ) of Clause 9 of the Imports (Control) Order. 
tion of the licence in question or a personal hearing and that 1955 as amended from time to time hereby cancel the licence 
they did not wish to embrass the Government, 

mentioned above issued in favour of the above firm . 
Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding 

[ File No. JC / 55 / ECA / 77] 
paragraphs the undersigned is satisfied that the licence in 
question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered ineffective . 
Therefore , tho undersigned in exercise of the powers vested in 

प्रावण 
him under Sub -Clause ( a ) of thc Clause 9 of the Imports 
(Control) Order , 1955 , as amended from timo to time, hereby 

का०मा० 2965. - - सर्वश्री पुखराज चमनजी , 10 कामी घेट्टी स्ट्रीट , 
cancel the licence mentioned above, issued in favour of tho मद्रास- 1 को अप्रैल -मार्च 1977 की अवधि के लिए 2,00, 000 रुपए 

मूल्य के सूखे फल का पायात करने के लिए लाइसेंस सख्या पी / ई/ 0264212, 
[ File No . JC / 55 / ECA / 77 ] 

दिनांक 15- 3- 77 प्रदान किया गया था । 
आदेश 

___ यह देखा गया है कि पूर्वोका लाइमेंम भल में जारी कर दिया गया 
का० आ० 296 4: - - सर्वश्री, श्री जगतम्मा कं० 4 थम्म नामकन स्ट्रीट 
मद्रास 1 को अप्रैल -मार्च 1977 की अवधि के लिए 2, 00, 000 रुपए 

इमलिए, समय- समय पर यथासंशोधित आयात ( नियंत्रण ) आदेश 
मूल्य के मुखे फन पायात करने के लिए लाइम संख्या पी /8/ 10264211 , 

1955 की धारा 9 ( ए ) के अधीन दिमांक 18- 3-77 के सर्वश्री पुखराज 
15- 3 -77 प्रदान किया गया था । 

चममजी , 10 कासी चेट्टी स्ट्रीट , मद्राम - 1 को एक कारण बताओ नोटिम 

यह पूछने जारी किया गया था कि वे निर्दिष्ट ममय के भीतर कारण 
यह देखा गया है कि पूर्वोक्त लाइसेंस भूल से जारी कर दिया 

बताएं कि उक्त लाइसेंस ऊपर उल्लिखित कारण की वजह से रद्द क्यों 
गया है । 

न कर दिया जाए । उन्हें उनके मामले के लिए प्रतिवेदन करने के लिए 
इमनिए , समय समय पर यथा संशोधित पायात ( नियंत्रण ) आदेश 

व्यक्तिगत सुनवाई का अवसर भी दिया गया था । परन्तु फर्म ने अपने 
1955 की धारा 9 ( ए ) के अधीन विनाक 18- 3- 77 को सर्वश्री जगतम्बा 

पत्र दिनांक 26- 3- 77 में यह कहा है कि उन्होंने लाइसेंस पहले ही सौप 
क . को एक कारण बताओ नोटिम यह पूछते जारी किया गया था कि 

दिया था और यह कि 4- 4- 77 को व्यक्तिगत सुनवाई के लिए उपस्थित 
व निर्दिष्ट ममम के भीतर कारण बताएं कि उक्त लाइसेम ऊपर उल्लिखिन 

होने में उनकी रुचि नहीं है और उन्होंने अपने प्रावेदन पत्र को निपटाने 
कारण की बमह से रह क्यों न कर दिया जाए । उन्हें जमके मामले के 

के लिए निवेदन किया था । 
लिए प्रतिवेदन करने के लिए व्यक्तिगत सुनवाई का अवसर भी दिया गया __ पूर्वोक्त पैराग्राफ में जो कुछ कहा गया है उसे ध्यान में रखते हए 
था । परन्तु फर्म ने अपने पत्र दिनांक 26- 3- 77 में यह कहा है कि उन्होंने अधोहस्ताक्षरी इस बात से सन्तुष्ट है कि उक्त लाइमेंम को रद्द करा दिया 
लाइसेम पहले ही सौंप दिया था और यह कि 4- 4- 77 को व्यक्तिगत जाना चाहिए था अभ्यथा रूप से अप्रभावी कर दिया जाना चाहिए । 
मुनवाई के लिए उपस्थित होने में उनकी रुचि नहीं है और उन्होंने अपने 

इसलिए समय - समय पर यथासंशोधित मायात (नियंत्रण ) प्रादेश , 
प्रावेदन पत्र को निपटाने के लिए निवेदन किया था । 

1955 की धारा 9 की उप-धारा ( ए ) द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग 
पूर्वोक्तं पराग्राफ में जो कुछ कहा गया है उसे ध्यान में रखते हुए कर प्रधोहस्ताक्षरी फर्म को जारी किए गए पूर्वोक्स लाइसेंस को एतद्वारा 
अधोहस्ताक्षरी इस बात से सन्तुष्ट है कि उक्त लाइसेस को रद्द कर दिया रह करता है । 
जाना चाहिए या अन्यषा रूप मे अप्रभावी कर दिया जाना चाहिए । 

[मिसिल संख्या जेसी / 55/ईसीए / 77] 


firm . 


33428 


THE GAZETTE OFINDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ ASVINA 2, 1899 


[ PART II - SEC. 3(iily 


Therefore, a show cause notice dated 18- 3 -1977 under Clause 
9 ( a ) of the Imports (Control) Order , 1955, og amended from 
time to time, was issued to M / s. Renuka & Co., asking them 
to show causc within a specified time as to why the said 
licence should not be cancellcd for the reason mentioned above. 
An opportunity for personal hearing was also given to re 
present their cage. But the firm have stated in their letter 
dated 26 - 3 - 1977 that they have already handed over the 
licence and that they do not wish to avail personal hearing 
on 4- 4 - 1977 and had requested for finalisation of their case. 


ORDER 
S . 0 . 2965. - M / I. Pukhraj Chamaji, 10, Kasi Chetty St. 

Madras- 1 , were issued a licence No . P / 0264212 dated 
15- 3 - 1977 for Rs. 2 , 00 , 000 for import of Dry Fruits for the 
period AM 77 . 

It has been noticed that the above licence has been issued 
inadvertently . 

Therefore , a show cause notice dated 18 - 3 - 1977 under 
Clause 9 ( a ) of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955 as amended 
from time to time, was issued to M / s . Pukhraj Chamnaji, ask 
ing them to show cause within a specified timc as to why the 
said licence should not be cancelled for the reason mentioned 
above. An opportunity for personal hearing was also given 
to represent their case . But the firm have stated in their 
letter dated 26 - 3 - 1977 that they have alrcady handed over 
the licence and that they do not wish to avail personal hcar 
ing on 4 - 4 - 1977 and had requested for finalisation of their 
application. 

Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding 
paragraphs , the undersigned is satisfied that the licence in 
question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered ineffective . 
Therefore , the undersigned in exercise of the powers vested 
in him under Sub -Clause ( a ) of Clause 9 of the Ymports 
( Control) Order , 1955 as amended from time to time, hereby 
cancel the licence mentioned above issued in favour of the 
above firm. 

[ File No. JC / 55 / ECA/ 77] 


Having regard to what has been s ated in the preceding 
paragraphs, the undersigned is satisfied that the licence in 
question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered ineffective . 
Therefore , the undersigned in exercise of the powers vested in 
him under Sub- Clause ( a ) of Clause 9 of the Imports (Control) 
Crder , 1955 as amended from time to time, hereby concel 
the licence mentioned above issued in favour of the above 
shid firm. 

[ File No . JC / 55 / EC. \ / 77] 


मादेश 
का०मा० 2966 -- सर्वश्री, रेणुका एण्ड के०, कासी चेट्टी स्ट्रीट , मद्रास 1 
को अप्रैल-मार्च, 1977 की अवधि के लिए 2,00, 000 रुपए मूल्य के 
सूखे फल का पायात करने के लिए लाइसेंस संख्या पी /ई/ 0264213, 
दिनांक 15- 3- 77 प्रवान किया गया था । 

यह देखा गया है कि पूर्वोक्त लाइसेंस भूल से जारी कर दिया गया है । 

इमलिए, समय -समय पर यपासंशोधित पायात ( नियंत्रण ) प्रादेश, 
1955 की धारा 9 ( ए ) के अधीन दिनांक 18- 3-77 को सर्वश्री रेणुका 
ए क० को एक करण नसानो मोटिस यह पूछते जारी किया गया था 
कि वे निर्दिष्ट समय के भीतर कारण बताएं कि उक्त लाइसेंस ऊपर 
उल्लिखित कारण की वजह से रद्द क्यों न कर दिया जाए । उन्हें उनके 
मामले के लिए प्रतिवेदन करने के लिए व्यक्तिगत मुनवाई का अवमर 
भी दिया गया था । परन्तु फर्म मे अपने पत्र दिनांक 26- 3- 77 में यह 
कहा है कि उन्होंने लाइसेंस पहले ही सौंप दिया था और यह कि 
4- 4- 77 को व्यक्तिगत सुनवाई के लिए उपस्थित होने में उनकी रुचि 
नहीं है और उन्होंने अपने आवेदन पत्र को निपटाने के लिए मियम 
किया था । 

पूर्वोक्त पैराग्राफ में जो कुछ कहा गया है उसे ध्यान में रखते हुए 
मधोहस्तामरी इस बात से संतुष्ट है कि उक्त लाइसेंस को रद्द कर दिया 
जाना चाहिए था अन्यथा रूप से अप्रभावी कर दिया जाना चाहिए । 


आदेश 

मद्रास, 31 मार्च, 1977 
का आ० 2967. - - सर्वश्री, सकलचन्द ए० पोखाल 31, गोविन्दप्पा नायकन 
स्ट्रीट, मद्राम- 1 को अप्रैल -मार्च 1977 की अवधि के लिए 2, 00, 000 
रुपए मूल्य के सूखे फल का आयात करने के लिए लाइसेंम संख्या पी / ई/ 
0264208, दिनांक 15- 3- 77 प्रदान किया गया था । 

यह देखा गया है कि पूर्वोक्न लाइसेंस भूल से जारी कर दिया गया है । 

इसलिए , समय -समय पर ययासंशोधित प्रायात (नियंत्रण ) प्रादेश , 
1955 की धारा 9 ( ) के अधीन एक कारण बताओं सूचना संख्या जेसी 
55/ ईसीए/ 77 विनांक 18- 3- 77 सर्वश्री सकलचन्द ए० पोखाल को यह 
पूछते हुए जारी की गयी थी कि निर्दिष्ट समय के भीतर कारण बताएं 
कि उक्त लाइसेंस ऊपर उस्लिखित कारण की वजह से रह क्यों नहीं कर 
दिया जाए । उन्हें अपने मामले के लिए प्रतिवेदन करने के लिए व्यक्तिगत 
मुनवाई का अवसर भी दिया गया था कारण बतानो नोटिस के जमाव 
में यद्यपि उन्होंने अपमे वकील के माध्यम से दिनांक 24- 3- 77 को एक 
पर यह कहते हुए भेजा है कि लाइसेंस सार्वजनिक सूचना के अनुसार ठीक 
जारी किया गया था , परन्तु उसके बाद 29- 3- 77 के पत्र में उन्होंने 
कारण बताओ नोटिस को स्वीकार किया है उन्होंने न तो उक्त लाइसेंस 
को वापिस करने के लिए या न ही व्यक्तिगत सुनवाई के लिए कहा 
और वे सरकार को परेशान करना नही चाहते थे । 

पूर्वोक्त पैराग्राफ में जो कुछ कहा गया है उसे ध्यान में रखते हुए, 
अधोहस्ताक्षरी इस बात से संतुष्ट है कि उक्त लाइसेंस को रद्द कर दिया 
जाना चाहिए या अन्यथा रूप से अप्रभावी कर दिया जाना चाहिए । इस 
लिए , समय -समय पर अथासंशोधित पायात (नियंत्रण ) मावेश , 1955 
को धारा 9 की उपधारा ( ए ) द्वारा प्रवस अधिकारों का प्रयोग कर 
मधोहस्ताक्षरी फर्म के पक्ष में जारी किए गए पूर्वोक्त लाइसेंस को एतद् 
वारा रह करता है । 

[मिसिल संख्या जेसी/ 55/ईसी ए/ 77] 

ORDER 

Madras, the 31st March , 1977 
S . 0 . 2967 . - M /s. Sakalchand A . Porwal , 31 , Govindappa 
Naicken St., Madras - 1 , were issued a licence No . P / E / 0264208 
dated 15- 3 -1977 for Rs. 2 lakhs for import of Dry Fruit for 
the period AM 77 . 

It has been noticed that the above liconce has been issued 
inadvertently . 

Therefore, ashow cause notice No . JC /55 / ECA/ 77 dated 
18- 3- 1977 under Clause 9( a ) of the Imports ( Control) Order , 
1955 as amended from time to time, was issued to M / s . 
Sakalchand A . Porwal , asking them to show cause within a 
specified time as to why the said licence should not be 
cancelled for the reasons mentioned . above . An opportur 


इसलिए समय- समय पर यथा संशोधित पायात (नियंत्रण ) मावेश 
1955 की धारा 8 की उपधारा ( ए ) द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग कर 
अधोहस्तामारी फर्म को जारी किए गए पूर्वोक्स लाइसेंस को एतद्धारा 
रद्द करता है । 

[मिसिल सम्या जेसी / 55/ईसीए / 77] 


ORDER 
S. O . 2966 . --- M / S. Renuka & Co .. 10 , Kasi Chetty S., 
Madra9- 1 , were issued a licence No . P / E / 0264213 dated 
15- 3 - 1977 for Rs . 2, 00, 000 for import of Dry Fruits for the 
period AM 77 . 


It has been noticed that the above licence has been issued 
inadvertently . 


। [ भाग II --- 


3 ( ii ) ] 


भाग्न का राजपत्र : मिसम्बर 24 , 1977/ माश्विन 2, 1899 


3429 


nity for personal hearing was also given to represent their 
case . In reply to the show cause notice , though they have 
sent u letter dated 24 - 3 - 1977 through their Advocate stating 
that the licence has been issued correctly as per Public Notice , 
but in their subsequent letter dated 29 - 3 - 1977, they had ap 
preciated the show cause notice and that they did not press 
for the res orution of the licencc in question or a personal 
hearing and that they did not wish to embarass the Govern 
ment. 


letter dated 24- 3 - 1977 through their Advocate stating that 
the licence has been issued correctly as per Public Notice , 
but in their subsequent letter dated 29 - 3 - 1977 , they had 
appreciated the show cause notice and that they did not 
press for the restoration of the licence in question or a per 
sonal hearing and that they did not wish to cmbarass the 
Government. 


Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding 
paragraphs , the undersigned is satisfied that the licence in 
question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered ineffective . 
Therefore , the lindersigned in evercise of the powers vested 
in him under Sub- clause ta) of the clause 9 of the Imports 
( Control ) Order , 1955 , is amended from time to time, hereby 
cancel the licences mentioned above issued in favour of the 
above firm. 

[ File No. JC / 55 / ECA / 77 ] 
प्रादेश 


Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding 
paragraphs, the undersigned is satisfied that the licence in 
question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered in 
effective . Therefore , the under signed in cxcrcise of the 
powers vested in him under Sub - clause ( a ) of the Clause 9 
of the Imports ( Control) Order , 1955 as amended from time 
to time, hereby cancel the licence nientioned above , issued 
in favour of the firm . 

[ Filc No. JC / 55 / ECA / 77] 


प्रादेश 


का०मा० 2968----सर्वश्री, प्रकाश कुमार एम०, 3 1 गोविन्दप्पा नायकन 
स्ट्रीट , मद्राम- 1 को अप्रैल-मार्च 1977 की अवधि के लिए 2, 00, 000 
रुपये मूल्य के सूख्ने फल का आयात करने के लिए लाइमेंम संख्या पी / ई/ 
0264207, दिनांक 15- 3- 77 प्रदान किया गया था । 

यह देखा गया है कि पूर्वोझ्न लाइमेंम भूल से जारी कर दिया गया है । 

इसलिए, गमय -गमय पर यथामंशाधिन आयात (नियंत्रण ) आदेश , 
1955 की धारा 9 ( प ) के अधीन एक कारण मतानो सूचना सम्झ्या 
जेमी / 55/ ई सी ए/ 77, दिनांक 18- 3-77 मर्वश्री प्रकाश कुमार एम० को 
यह पूछते हुए जारी की गयी थी कि निर्दिष्ट समय के भीतर कारण 
बनाएं कि उक्त लाइसेम ऊपर उस्लिम्ब्रिम कारण की वजह मे रह क्यों 
नहीं कर दिया जाए । उन्हें अपने मामले के लिए प्रतिवेदन करने के लिए 
व्यक्तिगत सुनवाई का अवसर भी दिया गया था । कारण बतानो नोटिम 
के जबाब में यद्यपि उन्होंने अपने वकील के माध्यम से दिनाक 24- 3- 77 
को एक पत्र यह कहते हुए भेजा है कि लाइमेम मार्वजनिक सूचना के 
अनुसार ठीक जारी किया गया था , परन्तु उसके बाद 29- 3- 77 के पन्न 
में उन्होंने कारण बताओ नोटिस को स्वीकार किया है उन्होंने न तो 
उक्त लाइसेंस को वापिम करने के लिए या न ही व्यक्तिगत सुनवाई के 
लिए कहा और वे मरकार को परेशान करना नहीं चाहते थे । 

पूर्वोक्त पैराग्राफ में जो कुछ कहा गया है उसे ध्यान में रखते हुए , 
अधोहस्ताक्षरी इस बात से संतुष्ट है कि उक्त लाइमस को रद्द कर दिया 
जाना चाहिए या अन्यथा रूप से अप्रभावी कर दिया जाना चाहिए । 
इसलिए, समय-समय पर यथासंशोधित प्रायान (नियंत्रण ) आदेश , 1955 
की धारा 9 की उप -धारा ( प ) द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग कर 
मघोहस्ताक्षरी फर्म के पक्ष में जारी किए गए पूर्वोझ्न लाइमेम को एनन् 
द्वारा रद्द करता है । 

[ मिमिान मध्या जेसी / 55/ ईसीए / 77] 


का०मा० 2969. ---सर्वश्री, शान्ती लाल ए . जैन , 1/ 204 गोविन्दप्पा नायकन 
स्ट्रीट , मनाम- 1 को अप्रैल -मार्च 1977 की अवधि के लिए 2, 00, 000 
रुपये मूल्य के सूखे फल का आयात करने के लिए लाइमेंम मख्या पी / ई / 
0.: 6 4206, दिनांक 15- 3- 77 प्रवान किया गया था । 
__ यह देखा गया है कि पूर्वोक्त लाइसेंस मूल से जारी कर दिया गया है । 

इमलिए, ममय - समय पर यथासंशोधित पायात (नियन्त्रण ) प्रादेश , 
1955 की धारा १ ( प ) के अधीन एक कारण बनामो सूचना मंग्या जेसी 
55/ ईसीए/ 77, दिनांक 18- 3- 77 सर्वश्री शान्सी लाल एक जैन , को यह 
पूछते हुए जारी की गयी थी कि निर्दिष्ट समय के भीतर कारण बनाएं 
कि उक्त लाइमेंम ऊपर उल्लिखित कारण की वजह से रए क्यों नहीं कर 
दिया जाए । उन्हें अपने मामले के लिए प्रतिवेदन करने के लिए व्यक्तिगत 
सुनवाई का प्रयमर भी दिया गया था । कारण बनायो मोटिम के जवाब 
में यद्यपि उन्होंने अपने वकील के माध्यम से दिनांक 24- 3- 77 को एक 
पत्र यह कहते हुए भेजा है कि लाइसेंम मार्वजनिक सूचना के अनुसार 
ठीक जारी किया गया था , परन्तु उसके बाद 29- 3- 77 के पत्र में उन्होंने 
कारण मनानो नोटिम स्वीकार किया है उन्होंने न तो उन लाइसेंस 
को वापिम करने के लिए या न ही व्यक्तिगत सुनवाई के लिए कहा और 
ये मरकार को परेशान करना नहीं चाहते थे । 
__ पूर्वोक्त पैराग्राफ में जो कुछ कहा गया है उसे ध्यान में रखते हुए , 
अधोहस्ताक्षरी इस बात मे मन्तुष्ट है कि उक्त लाइसेंम को रद्द कर दिया 
जाना चाहिए या अन्यथा रूप में अप्रभावी कर दिया जाना चाहिए । 
इसलिए, ममय- समय पर यथामंशोधित पायात ( नियंत्रण ) प्रादेश , 1955 
की धाग 9 की उप-धारा ( ए ) द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग कर 
अधोहस्ताक्षरी फर्म के पक्ष में जारी किए गए पूर्वोक्त लाइमेंस को एतद् 
वाग रद्द करता है । 

[मिमिम मम्म्या जेमी / 55/ ईसीए/ 77] 


ORDER 


ORDER 


s . o . 2969. _ M / S. Shantilal A . Jain, 1 / 204 Govindappu 
Naicken Street, Madras- 1 , were issued a licence No. P / E ) 
(0264206 dated 15- 3 - 1977 for Rs . 2 . 00 ,000 / - for import of 
Dry Fruits for the period A . M . 77 . 


S . O . 2968. — M /s . Prakash Kumar S ., 31, Govindappa Nai 
cken St., Madras - 1 , were issued a licence No . P / E / 0264207 
dated 15- 3 - 1977 for Rs. 2 , 00 , 000 /- for iniport of Dry Fruits 
for the period AM 77 . 

It has been noticed that the above licence has been issued 
inadvertently . 


It has been noticed that the above licence has been issucd 
inadvertently . 


Therefore, a show cause notice No . JC / 55 / ECA / 77 dated 
18 - 3 - 1977 under Clausc 90.1 ) of the Imports (Control) Ordei , 
1955 as amendled from tine to time , was issued to M / s . 
Prakash Kumar S .. asking them to show cause within a 
specified time 1s to why the suid licence should no : be can 
celled to the reason mentioned above . An opportunity for 
personal hearing was also given to represent their case 
In reply to the show cause notice , though they have sent u 

80 GI/ 77 . - 4 


Therefore, a show cause notice No. JC / 5S /ECA / 77 dated 
18 - 3 - 1977 under Clause 91a ) of The Imports (Control) Order , 
1955 as amended from time to time, was issued to MS, 
Shantilal A . Jain asking them to show cause within a speci 
fled time as to why the said licence should not be can 
celled for the reason mentioned above . An opportunity for 
pcjsonal hearing was also given to represent their case. In 
reply to the show cause notice , though they have sent 
letter dated 24 - 3 - 1977 through their Advocate stating thst 
the licence has been issued correctly as per Public Notice, 


- - -- 


- - -- - - - 


- 


- - - - 


3430 THE GAZETTE OFINDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977/ ASVINA 2, 1899 [ PART II. SEC . 3 (ii)] 
- - - - - - 

- - - -- - - - 
but in their subsequent letler dated 29 - 3 - 1977 . they had Having regard to what has been slated in the preceding 
apperciated the show cause notice and that they did not paragraphs, the undersignet is sa :isfied that the licence in 
press for the restoration of the licence in question or a question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered in 
nersonal hearing and that they did not wish to embarass the effective . Therefore, the indersigned in crercise of the 
Government. 

power vested in him under Sub- clause ( 1 ) of the Clause 9 

of The Imports ( Control) Order , 1955 as amended from time 
Having regard to what hus heen stated in the preceding to time, hereby cancel the license mentioned above, issued 
paragraphs, the undersigned is satisfied that the licence in in favour of the above firm . 
question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered in 

[File No. JC / 55 /EC .1 / 771 
effective. Therefore , thc undersigned in cxercise of the 
powers vected in him under Sub -cl Ause (a ) of the Clause 9 

प्रादेश 
of the imports ( Control) Ordot, 1955 is imended from time 
to time, hereby cancel the licence inentioned above , issued का आ० 2971. -- मर्यश्री छगनलाल एक जैन , 1/ 20 4 गोविन्दप्पा नायकन 
in favour of the above firm . 

स्ट्रीट, मद्रास 1 को अप्रैल-मार्च 1977 की अवधि के लिए 2, 00, 000 रुपये 
[ File No. JC / 55 /ECA / 77] 

मध्य के मूखे फल का पायात करने के लिए लाइसेम मंन्या पी / ई / 0264 206 
प्रादेश 

दिनांक 15- 3- 77 प्रदान किया गया था । 
का०आ02970. -- सर्वश्त्री , प्रदीप कुमार पी , 31, गोबिन्दप्पा नायकन स्ट्रीट , 

यह देखा गया है कि पूर्वोक्न लाइमेम भल मे जारी कर दिया गया है । 
मद्रास - 1 को अप्रैल -मार्च 1977 की अवधि के लिए 2, 00, 000 रुपये 

इसलिए, ममय- समय पर यथासंशोधित पायात ( नियंत्रण ) प्रादेश , 
मल्य के मूखे फल का आयात करने के लिए लाइमेंस मंख्या पी / ई । 1955 की धाग 9( प ) के अधीन एक कारण बनायो मूचना संख्या जेसी/ 
026 420 4, दिनांक 15- 3- 77 प्रदान किया गया था । 

5.5/ ई सी ए / 77 दिनांक 18. 3 77 सर्वश्री छगनलाल एक जैन को यह पूछने 
यह देखा गया है कि पूर्वोक्त लाइसेंस भुल मे जारी कर दिया गया है । 

म्हप जारी की गयी थी कि निर्विष्ट समय के भीतर कारण बताएं कि उक्त 

नाइसेंम ऊपर उल्लिखित कारण की वजह से रद्द क्यों नहीं कर दिया 
इमलिए , समय-समय पर यथासंशोधित पायात (नियंदन ) आदेश , जाए । उन्हें अपने मामले के लिए प्रतिवेदन करने के लिए व्यक्तिगत 
1955 की धारा 9 ( ए ) के अधीन एक कारण बतायो सूचना संख्या जेसी / 

सुनयाई का प्रवमर भी दिया गया था । कारण बनानो नोटिस के जबाव 
55 / ईसीए/ 77, दिनांक 18 - 3- 77 मर्ष श्री प्रवीप कुमार पी० को यह पूछते 

में यद्यपि उन्होंने अपने वकील के माध्यम से दिनांक 2-1- 3- 77 को एक 
हुए जारी की गयी थी कि निर्दिष्ट समय के भीतर कारण बताएं कि 

पर यह कहते हुए भेजा है कि लाइमेंग मार्वजनिक सूचना के अनुसार ठीक 
उक्त लाइमेंस ऊपर उल्लिखित कारण की वजह से रर क्यों नहीं कर दिया 

किया गया था , परन्तु उसके भाव 29- 3- 77 के पत्र में उन्होंने कारण 
जाए । उन्हें अपने मामले के लिए प्रतिवेवन करने के लिए व्यक्तिगत बताओ नोटिस को स्वीकार किया और उन्होंने न तो उक्त लाइसेंस को 
सुनवाई का अवसर भी दिया गया था । कारण बताओ नोटिम जबाव पापिम करने के लिए या न ही व्यक्तिगत मुनवाई के लिए कहा और वे 
में यद्यपि उन्होने अपने वकील के माध्यम से दिनांक 24- 3- 77 को एक 

सरकार को परेशान करना नहीं चाहते थे । 
पत्र यह कहते हुए भेजा है कि लाइसेंस सार्वजनिक सूचना के अनुमार ठीक 
जारी किया गया था , परन्तु उसके बाद 29- 3-77 के पत्र में उन्होंने 

पूर्वोक्त पैराग्राफ में जो कुछ कहा गया है उसे ध्यान में रखते हुए , 
कारण बताओ नोटिस की स्वीकार किया और उन्होंने न तो उक्त लाइसेंस 

अधोहस्ताक्षरी इस बात से सन्तुष्ट है कि उक्त लाइसेंस को रद्द कर दिया 
को पापिस करने के लिए या न ही व्यक्तिगत मुनवाई के लिए कहा 

जाना चाहिए या अन्यथा रूप में अप्रभावी कर दिया जाना चाहिए । 
पौर वे सरकार को परेशान करना नही चाहते थे । 

इसलिए, समय -समय पर यथासंशोधित पायान (नियंत्रण ) प्रादेश , 1955 

की धारा 9 की उप -धारा ( प. ) द्वारा प्रदान अधिकारों का प्रयोग कर भनो 
पूर्वोक्त पैगग्राफ में जो कुछ कहा गया है उसे ध्यान में रखते हुए हस्ताक्षरी फर्म के पक्ष में जारी किए गए पूर्वोक्त लाइसेंस को एतद्याग 
अधोहस्ताक्षरी इस बाम से मन्तुष्ट है कि उक्त लाइसेंम को रद्द कर दिया 

र करता है । 
जाना चाहिए या अन्यथा रूप से अप्रभावी कर दिया जाना चाहिए । इम 

[ संख्या : जेसी/ 55/ ईसीए/ 77 )] 
लिए , समय समय पर यथासंशोधित प्रायास ( नियंत्रण ) प्रादेश 1955 की 

ORDER 
घारा 9 की उप - धाग ( ए ) द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग कर अघो 

S . O . 2971. - M / s. Chhaga.nlal A . Jain, 1 / 204, Govindappa 
हस्ताक्षरी फर्म के पक्ष में जारी किए गए पूर्वोक्त लाइसेंस को एनद्वारा Naickon St., Madras - 1 , were issued a licence No. P / E / 

0264209 dated 15- 3 - 1977 for Rs. 2, 00 , 000 / - for import 
रह करता है । 

of 
Dry Fruits for the period AM 77 . 
[ संख्या जेसी/ 55/ ईसीए/ 77] 

It has been noticed that the above licence has been issued 

[ nadvertently . 
ORDER 

Therefore , a show cause notice No. JC / 55 / ECA / 77 dated 

18 - 3 - 1977 under Clause 9 ( a ) of the Import (Control) Order , 
S. 0 . 2970. -- M /s. Pradeep Kumar, P ., 31, Govindappa 1955 as amended from time to time, was issued to M / s . 
Naicken Street , Madrn५- 1 , were issued a licence No. P / E , Chhanganlal A. Jain, asking them to show cause within a 
0264204 dated 15- 3 - 1977 for Rs. 2,00,000 / - for Import of specified time as to why the said licence should not be can 
Dry Fruits for the period AM 77. 

celled for the reason mentioned above . An opportunity for 

personal hearing was also given to repiesent their case . 
It has been noticed that the above licence has been issued In reply to the show cause notice, though they have sent a 
inadverlently . 

letter dated 24 - 3 - 1977 through their Allvocale stating that 

The licence has been issued correctly as per l ublic Notice , 
Therefore , a show cause notice No, JC / 55 /ECA /77 caled 
18- 3 -1977 under Clause 9 ( a ) of the Imports ( Control) Order , 

but in their subsequent letter dated 29 - 3 - 1977 , they had 

appreciated the show causc notice and that they did not 
1955 as amended from time to time, was issued 10 M / S . 

press for the restoration of the licence in question or 
Pradeep Kumar P ., asking them to show cause within a 

a 

personal hearing and that they did not wish to embarass the 
specified time as 10 why the suid licence should not be 

Government. 
cancelled for the reason mentioned above , An Cpportunity 
for personal hearing was also given to represent their case. 

Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding 
In reply to the show causc notice , though they have sent a 

paragraphs, the undersigned is sa isfied that the licenco in 
letter dated 24- 3 - 1977 through their Advocate stating that 

question should be concelled or otherwise rendered in 
the licence has been issued correctly as per Public Notice . 

effective. Therefore, the undersignell in cxercise of the 
but in their subsequent letter dated 29- 3 - 1977 , they had 

nowers vested in him under Sub- clausc , ( a ) of the Clause 9 
appreciated the show Cause notice id that they did not 

of the Imports ( Control ) Order , 1955 as amendled from time 
press for the restoration of the licence in question or a 

to time, hereby cancel the licence mentioned above , issued 
personal hearing and that they did not wish to embarass the 

in favour of the firm . 
Government . 

[File No. JC / 55 / ECA / 77 ) 


भारत का राजपव : सितम्बर 24 , 1977 / आश्विन 2, 1899 


3431 


[ भाग II - - खण्ड 3( ii ) ] 
- . - - .-. ::: -- = 

आदेश 


-- - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


( लोहा एवं इस्पास विभाग ) 

आदेण 


का०मा० 2972 .--- मर्वश्री, अशोक कुमार, मी० 1/ 204 गोविन्दप्पा नायकन 
स्ट्रीट, मद्राम- 1 को अप्रैल-मार्च 1977 की अवधि के लिए 2, 00, 000 
झपये मूल्य के सूखे फल का प्रायान करने के लिए लाइसेम सख्या पी / ई/ 
0264210, दिनांक 15- 3-77 प्रवान किया गया था । 


मद्राम , 20 जून , 1977 
का०मा० 2973. - - आदेश सम्या आई० एण्ड एम टीपी / 4/ एमडी / 
70- 77, दिनांक 5- 10- 76 के आशिक प्राशोधन में यह या निश्चय किया 
गया है कि निम्नलिखित 9 पायात लाइसेसों को र , करके फिर से 
जारी किया जाए : 


यह देखा गया है कि पूर्वोपन लाइसेंम भूल में जारी कर दिया गया है । 


- 


- . . - 


- 


- 


इसलिए, समय- समय पर यथासंशोधित पायात (नियन्त्रन ) आदेश , 
1955 की धारा 9 ( प ) के अधीन एक कारण बतानो सूचना संख्या जेसी 
55/ ईसीए / 77, दिनांक 18- 3- 77 सर्वश्री अशोक कुमार मी० को यह पूछते 
हुए जारी की गयी थी कि निदिष्ट समय के भीतर कारण बताएं कि उम्त 
लाइसेंम ऊपर उल्लिखित कारण की वजह से रद्द क्यों नही कर दिया 
आए । उन्हें अपने मामले के लिए प्रतिवेदन करने के लिए व्यक्तिगत 
सुनवाई का अवसर प्रभी दिया गया था कारण बताओ नोटिस के जबाव 
में यद्यपि उन्होंने अपने वकील के माध्यम से दिनांक 24- 3- 77 को एक 
पन्न यह कहते हुए भेजा है कि लाहमेम सार्वजनिक सूचना के अनुमार ठीक 
जारी किया गया था , परन्तु उसके बाद 29- 3-77 के पत्र में उन्होंने 
कारण बताओ नोटिश को स्वीकार किया और उन्होने न तो उफ्त लाह 
सेंम को वापिस करने के लिए या न ही व्यक्तिगत मुनयाई के लिए कहा 
और वे सरकार को परेशान करना नही चाहते थे । 

पूर्वोक्त पैराग्राफ में जो कुछ कहा गया है उसे ध्यान में रखते हुए , 
अधोहस्ताभरी हम मात से मन्तुष्ट है कि उक्त लाइसेस को रद्द कर दिया 
दिया जाना चाहिए या अन्यथा रूप से अप्रभावी कर दिया जाना चाहिए । 
इसलिए, समय - समय पर यथामंशोधित मायात (नियंत्रण ) आदेश , 1955 
की धारा 9 की उप -धाग ( ए ) द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारो का प्रयोग कर 
प्रधोहस्ताक्षरी फर्म के पक्ष मे जारी किए गए पूर्वोक्त लाइसेंम को एतद् 
वाग रह करता है । 

[ संख्या जसी / 55/ ईसीए/ 77] 


दिनांक 
1. पी / एम /8230039/ मी / एक्सएक्स / 52/ एम 16- 8- 74 _ 31, 557/ 

139- 40/ 05/ 24 
2 . पी / एस / 82300-40 / टो /प्रोपार / 52 , 15, 778/ 

एम / 39- 40/ 05/24 
3. पो / एस / 82300 41 / पार एमएल / 52 / , 15, 778/ 
___ एम/ 39-40/ 05/ 24 

4. पो / एस / 8225808 / सी / एक्सएक्स/ 58/ 29-3-76 31, 556/ 
___ एम / 39-40/ 05/ 253 
5 . पी /एस/ 8225809/ पार/ एमएन/ 58/ 

18, 934/ 
____ एम / 39-40/ 05/ 253 

6. पी एस / 3565476 / सी /एसएम/ 58/ 26- 2- 76 3 1, 557/ 
___ एम / 41- 42/ 05/ 28 

7. पी / एस / 8565477 / मार /एमएल / 58/ , 18,933/ 
____ एम / 41- 42/ 05/ 28 

8. पी / एस / 8225805 / मी /एक्मएक्स / 58/ 29-3-76 31, 556/ 
____ एम / 41- 42/ 05/ 28 
9. पी / एस / 8225806 / पार/ एमएल / 58/ 

/ आर/ एमएल / 58/ , 18, 934/ 
__ एम / 41- 42/ 05/ 28 

[सख्या लोहा एवं इस्पान /टी०पी०/ 4/ एमजी / 76- 77] 

के ० एम . आर . मेनन , उप-मुख्य नियंत्रक 


ORDER 


S . O . 2972. - M / S. Ashok Kumar , C ., 1 / 204 , Govindappa 
Naicken Street, Madras - 1, were issued a licence No . P / E / 
0264210 dated 15 - 3 -1977 for Rs. 2 , 00, 000 / - for Import of 
Dry Fruits for the period AM 77 . 


It has been noticed that the above licence has been issued 
inadvertently . 


Therefore, a show cuunc nolice No. JC / 55 /ECA / 77 dated 
18 - 3 - 1977 under Clause 21.1) of the Imports (Control) Order , 
1955 as amended from time to time. was issucd to M / s. 


Ashok Kumar , C ., asking them to show calise within 2 
specified time as to why he said licence should not be cain . 
celled for the reason mentioned above . An opportunity for 
personal hearing was also given to represent their case . In 
reply to the show causc notice, though they have sent : 
letter dated 24 - 3 - 1977 through their Advocate stating that 
the licence has been issued correctly as per Public Notice , 
but in their subsequent letter dated 29 - 3 - 1977, they had 
appreciated the show cause notice and they did not press 
for the restoration of the licence in question or il personal 
hcaring and that they did not wish to embarass the Govern 
ment . 


(Iron and Steel Division ) 

ORDER 
Madras, the 20th June, 1977 
$ .0 . 2973 . - In partial modification of Order No. I & S / TP / 
4 /MD /76 -77 dt, 5- 10 -76 , it has been decided to revoke the can 
cellation and reinstate thc undermentioned ninc import licences : 
1. P /S/ 8230039/ C /XX/ 52/ M / 39- 40 /05 /24 dt. 16- 8-74 - Rs. 31, 557 
2. P/ S/ 8230040/ T /OR/52/ M/ 39- 40/ 05/ 24dt . 16- 8-74 - Rs. 15,778. 
3. P/ S/ 8230041 / R / ML/52/ M /39- 40 /05/ 24 dt. 16- 8- 74 Rs. 15, 778 
4 . P/ S/ 8225808 / C / XX/ 58/ M/ 39 -40 / 05/ 253 dt, 29 - 3- 76 

Rs . 31 , 556. 
5 . P/ S/ 8225809 / R / ML/58/ M /39 . 40/ 05 / 253 dt. 29- 3- 76 
___ Rs. 18, 934. 

6. P/S / 8565476/ C / XX/ 58/ M/ 41 . 42/ 05/ 28 dt. 26- 2- 76 
___ Rs. 31 , 557 . 
7. P/ S / 8565477/ R/ ML/ 58/ M / 41 . 42 / 05/ 28 dt. 26 -2 - 76 - - 

Rs. 18 , 933. 
8. P/S /8225805/ C /XX/ 58/ M / 41 . 42/05/ 28 dt. 29- 3-76 -- 

Rs. 31 , 556. 
9. P/ S/ 8225806/ R/ ML/58/ M/ 41 . 42 /05/28 dt . 29 -3-76 
Rs. 18, 934 . 

[ No . I & S/ TP/ 4/ MD/ 76- 77] 
K . M . R . MENON , D /. Cniz? Controller 


Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding 
paragraphs, the undersigned is satisfied that the licence in 
question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered in 
effective. Therefore , the undersigned in exercise of the 
powers vested in him under Sub - clause ( a ) of the Clause 9 
of the Imports ( Control) Order, 1955 as amended from timo 
to time, hereby cancel the licence mentioned above. issued 
in favour of the above firm . 


[ File No. JC / 55 / ECA /77 ] 


3432 THE GAZETTE OFINDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977 / ASVINA 2, 1899 [ PART II - SEC. 3( ii )] 

- - - - - -- - - -- - --- - --- - - -- - 
नागरिक पूर्ति तथा सहकारिता मंत्रालय 

भारतीय मानक संस्था 

नई दिल्ली, 1977- 09-01 
का०आ० 2974 - - भारतीय मानक संम्या ( प्रमाणन चिन) विनियम 1955 के विनियम, 7 के उपधिनियम ( 3 ) के अनुसार भारतीय मानक 
मंम्या द्वारा अधिसूचित किया जाता है कि ठंडी रुपित कमानी बनाने के लिए इम्पात के नार की प्रति इकाई मुहर लगाने की फीम अनमूची में दिए गए योगे 
के अनुमार निर्धारित की गई है और यह फीस 1977- 07- 01 से लागू होगी । 

अनुसूची 


- 


-- - - - 


क्रम संख्या उत्पाव / उत्पाद की श्रेणी 


तस्मम्बन्धी मानक की पदसंख्या और शीर्षक 


इकाई 


प्रति इकाई मुहर लगाने 

की फीस 


61 ) ( 2 ) 

. - - - . .. - - 
1 . ठंडी नपित कमानी के लिए इस्पात के तार 


म० 


3 . 00 


( 3 ) 
IS : 4454 ( भाग 1 )-1975 ठंडी रुपित एक मीटरी टन 

कमानी के लिए इस्पात के तार भी विशि 
ष्टि भाग 1, पेटेन्टकृत और ठंड निषे 
इस्पात के मिश्रित तार ( पहला पुनरी 


क्षण ) 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


[ मझया सी०एम० डी० / 13 : 10] 
MINISTRY OF CIVIL SUPPLIES AND CO - OPERATION 
INDIAN STANDARDS INSTITUTION 

New Delhi, the 1977 -09 -01 
S . O . 2974. -- In pursuance of sub -regulation (3 ) of regulation 7 of the Indian Standards lostitution (Certification Marks) 
Regulations, 1955, the Indian Standards Institution, hercby , notifies that the marking fec per unit for Steel wirc for cold formed springs 
details of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed , has been determined and the fee shall come into force with cfiect from 
1977 - 07 - 01 . 

SCHEDULE 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


st. 


- - - - 


- 


( 2 ) 


( 5) 


Product/Class of No, and Title of Relevant 

Unit 

Marking Fee per Unit 
No. Product 

Indian Standard 

( 3 ) 
1 . Steel wire for cold formed IS : 4454( Pt I) - 1975 Specifica One Tonne 

__ Rs . 3 . 00 
springs 

tion for steel wiro for cold 
formed springs. 
Part I Patented and cold drawn 
steel wirc -unalloyed 
( first revision) 

- - 

No . CMD /13 : 10] 
का० आ० 2975:----ममय समय पर संशोधित भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिह्न ) नियम , 1955 के नियम, 4 के उपविनियम ( 1 ) के अनुसार 
भारतीय मानक मस्था द्वारा अधिसूचित किया जाता है कि संस्था ने एक मानक चिह्न निर्धारित किया है जिसकी रिजाइन शाब्दिक विवरण तथा भारतीय 
मानक के शीर्षक माहित अनुसूची में दी गई है । 
भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिल ) अधिनियम , 1952 और उमके अधीन बने नियमों के निमित यह मानक चिह्न 1977- 07- 01 से माग होगी । 

अनुसूची 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- - 


- - - 


उत्पाद / उत्पाद की श्रेणी 


सन्मम्वन्धी भारतीय मानक के संख्या और शीर्षक 


मानक की डिजाइन का शाब्दिक विवरण 


क्रम 
संख्या 


मानक चिह की 
डिजाइन 


- 


- 


- 


- 


( 1) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 5 ) 


ठंडी रुपित कमानों के लिए 

इस्पात के तार 


S448 


IS : 445 ( भाग 1 ) - 1975 ठंडी रुपिन कमानी भारतीय मानक संस्था का मोनोग्राम जिसमे 

के लिए इम्पात के तार की विशिष्ट भाग ISI शब्द होते है, स्तम्भ ( 2 ) में दिखाई 
1 , पेटेन्टात और ठरे खिचे इस्पात के गई पीली और अनुपात मे संयार किया 
अमिश्रित तार । 

गया है मौर जैमा रिजाइन में दिखाया 
( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) 

गया है उस मोनाग्राम के ऊपर की ओर 
भारतीय मानक की पदसंख्या दी गई 


[ संख्या सी०एम०डी०/ 13: 9] 


. . : - - 


[ भाग II - - खण्ड 3 (ii ) ] भारत का राजपत्र मितम्बर 24, 1977/ प्राश्विन 2, 1899 

3433 
- - - - - - ---- - - -- - - -- - - 

-- - - - - - - - - 
S . O . 2975 .---In pursuance of sub -rule (1 ) of 4 of the Indian Standards Institution ( Certification Marks ) Rules, 1955 the Indian 
Standards Institution , heroby notilies that the Standard Mark , design of which togother with the verbal description of the design and 
the title of the relevant Indian Standard is given in the Schedule liereto annexel, has been specified . 

This Standard Mark for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) Act, 1952 and the Rules and Regula 
tions framed thereunder , shall come into force with effect from 1977- 07 - 01 : 


SCHEDULE 


ȘI. No. 


Design of the 
Standard Mark 


Product/Class of Product 


No. and Title of the Relevant 

Indian Standard 


Verbal description of the 
Design of the Standard Mark . 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 5 ) 


Steel wire for cold formed springs 


15 : 4414 


Is : 4454( Pt . I) - -- 1975 Speci - The monogram of the Indian 
fication for steel wire for cold Standards Institution , consis 
formed springs 

ting of letters ISI , drawn in 
Part I Patented and cold drawn the exact style and relative 
stect wire- unalloycd . 

proportions as indicated in 
( first revision ) 

Col, ( 2) ; the number of the 
Indian Standard being super 
scribed on the top side of the 
monogram as indicated in 
the design . 


- 


- - 


[ No . CMD/ 13 : 9] 


नई दिल्ली , 1977- 09-02 


का आ० 2976 - -ममय समय पर संणोधित भारतीय मानक संस्था (प्रमाणन पिल ) यिनियम 1955 के विनियम 14 के उपविनियम ( 4 ) 
के अनुसार भारतीय मानक संस्था द्वारा अधिसूचित किया जाता है कि लाइसेस सं० मी०एम०/ एल- 3291 मिमके ब्यौरे नीचे दिए गए हैं, फार्म द्वारा ट्रेसिग कपड़ा 
बनाना अन्द कर देने के कारण 1977- 07- 01 से रद कर दिया गया है । 


अनुसूची 


- 


- - 


-- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


क्रमांक लाइमेंस संख्या और निथि 


लाइसमधारी का नाम और पता 


र किए गए लाइसेंस के तमम्बन्धी भारतीय मानक 
अधीन वस्तु / प्रक्रिया 


-- 


( 1 ) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


1. मीएम / एल- 3 291 


1973- 01 - 08 


। 


- - 


- 


- 


भोर इंडस्ट्रीज लि . भोर,जिला पूणे (कार्या- ट्रेसिंग कपड़ा IS : 2037- -1962 ट्रेसिंग 
लय : 386 वीर सावरकर मार्ग, बम्बई ) 

___ कपड़े की विशिष्टि 
- . - . - - . . . . .. . - - 

[सं० सी०एम0डी0/ 55: 329 1 ] 
वाई० एम . वेंकटेश्वरन , अपर महा० निदेशक 


New Nelhi, Dated 1977 -09-02 
S . O . 2976 . - In pursuance of sub- regulation (4 ) of regulation 14 of the Indian Standards (Certification Marks ), Regulations 1955 as 
amended from time to time, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifics that Licence No . CM / L - 3271 particulars of which are 
given helow has been cancelled with cHect from 1977 -07-01 as the firm has stopped production of the material : 


Sl. No. Licence No . and datc 


Name & Address of the Licensec 


Rclevant Indian Standards 


Article/ Process Covered by the 

Licensees Cancelled 


__ (1 ) 


(2 ) 


( 5 ) 


1. CM/ L -3291 

1973 - 01 - 08 


Tracing cloth 


Bhor Industries Ltd . Bhor , Distt. 

Poona (Office : 386 Veer 
Savarkar Marg, Bombay), 


IS : 2037 — 1962 Specification 

for tracing cloth. 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


[ No. CMD/ 55 : 3291 ] 
Y . S . VENKATESWARAN, Addl . Director General 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


। - - - - - 


- - 


Аге 


84 


3434 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977 / ASVINA 2, 1899 [ PART II - - SEC . 3(ii)] 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - --- 
पेट्रोलियम मंत्रालय 

SCHEDULE 

Acquisition of Right of User from Well NO . SDX to Line 
नई दिल्ली, 1 गितम्बर , 1977 

Connecting ROU SBF- GGS. I 
का आ० 2977. — यनः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रनीन होता है । 

State : Gujarat District : Mehrana Taluka : Mehsana 
कि लोकहित में यह प्रावण्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य में कृप नं० एम० डी० 
एम० से एम० पी० एफ० जी० जी० एम०- 1 को जोड़ने वाली लाइन तक 

Village 

Survey No . Hec - Are Centi 
पेट्रोलियम के परिवहन के लिये पाइप लाइन नेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैम 

lare 
प्रायोग द्वारा बिछाई जानी चाहिये । 

Hebuva 

0 03 

48 
और यतः यह प्रतीत होता है कि ऐसी लाइमो को बिछाने के 

00864 
प्रयोजन के लिये एतत्पाबद्ध अनुसूची मे बणित भूमि में उपयोग का 

() 03 
अधिकार अजिन करना प्रावश्यक है । 

[ No. [ 2016/ 4/ 77- Prod.] 
___ अनः ; अब पेट्रोलियम और खनिज पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग 
के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की 

नई दिल्ली , 7 सितम्बर , 1977 
धाग 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदान गक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 

का० आ० 2978. - - पन . पेट्रोलियम और खनिज पाइपलाइन ( भमि 
केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उममें उपयोग का अधिकार अमित करने का अपना के उपयोग के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) 
आशय एतद्द्वारा घोषित किया है । 

की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन भारत मरकार के पेट्रोलियम 
बशर्ते कि उक्त भूमि मे हितबद्ध कोई व्यक्ति , उम भूमि के नीचे 

मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना का० प्रा० सं० 767 तारीख 15- 2- 77 द्वारा 
पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिये आक्षेप मक्षम अधिकारी, नेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस 

केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उस अधिसूचना में मलग्न अनुसूची में विनिर्दिा ट भमियों 
मआयोग , निर्माण और देखभाल प्रभाग , मकरपुरा रोड़ बगैदा- 9 को हम 

के उपयोग के अधिकार को पाइप लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए 

अर्जित करने का अपना माशय घोषित कर दिया था । 
अधिसूचना की तारीख से 21 दिनों के भीतर कर मकेगा । 
___ और ऐमा प्राक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्टः यह भी कथन 

और यत: मक्षम प्राधिकारी ने उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की 
करेगा कि क्या वह चाहता है कि उसकी मुनवाई व्यक्तिश : हो या किसी 

उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन सरकार को रिपोर्ट दे दी है । 
विधि व्यवसायी की मार्फत । 

और प्रागे, यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उक्त रिपोर्ट पर विचार करने 
अनसची 

के पश्चात् इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट भूमियो में 
कप म० एम० डी०एम० मे पार० ओ० यू० एम० बी० एफ० जी० जी० एम०- 1 

उपयोग का अधिकार अजिन करने का विनिश्चय किया है । 
तक जोड़ने वाली लाइन 

अब , अनः उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा 

प्रदम शक्ति का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा घोषित करती 
राज्य : गुजरात जिला -मेहमाना 

तालुका : मेह 

है कि इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुमूची में विनिदिष्ट उक्न भूमियो में 
माना 

उपयोग का अधिकार पाइप लाइन बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिये एतदद्वारा 
सर्वेक्षण नं० हेक्टेयर एमआरई सेण्टी अर्जित किया जाता है । 

पर 

और, प्रागे उस धारा की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रस शामिनयों का 
- - - -- - - . . . - 
00: 

348 प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार निदेश बेनी है कि उक्त भूमियो में 
80 

00864 उपयोग का अधिकार केन्द्रीय सरकार में विहित होने के बजाय तेल और 
00384 प्राकृतिक गैस प्रायोग में , सभी संयंत्रों से मुक्त म्हप में , घोषणा के प्रकाशन 

को इम तारीख को निहित होगा । 
[मं० 12016/ 4/ 77-प्रोडक्शन 
MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM 

अनुसूची 
New Delhi, the 1st September . 1977 

व्यधन क्षेत्र एम० डी० डी० मे व्यवन क्षेत्र एम० रो० प्रो . नक पाइप लाइन बिछाने 
S . O . 2977 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 

के लिये 
ment that it is necessary in the public interest that for the 
wansport of petroleum from Well No . SDX to line connect गज्य . गुजरात 

जिला और तालका 

मेहमाना 
ing to SBF -GGS-I in Gujarat State pipelines should be 
laid by the Oil & Natural Gus Commission; 

मर्वेक्षण मं० 

गाष 
And whçrcas it appcars that for the purpose of laying 
such pipelines , it is necessary to acquire the Right of User 

हेक्टेयर एमाई सेन्टीयर 
in the land described in the schedule annexed hereto ; 

मेहमाना 2004 / 288 

40 
Now , threfore , in cxercise of the rowers conferred by 
sub -section (1 ) of the section 3 of the Petrolçum and 

2004 / 287 

0 0661) 
Minerals Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of user in land ) 

2004 / 286 
Act, 1962 ( 50 of 1962 ), the Central Government hereby 
declares its intention to ucquire the right of user therein ; 

2004/ 285 
Provided that any person interested in the said land may, 

2004/ 280 
within 21 days from the date of this notification , object to 

2004/ 281/ पी 

08 
the laying of the pipelines under the land to the Competent 
Authority , Oil & Natural Gas Commission , Construction & 

20(04/281/ पी 
Majntenance Division , Makarpura Road , Vadodara -9 ; 
And every person making such an objection shall 818 

2004/ 2790 0600 
state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person 
or by a legal practitioner , 

[ सं० 12016/ 2/ 76-4. ० एगह एन . ] 


हेबुवा 


11 । 


81 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


क्षेत्र 


] ] 


01 


00 


U8 


64 


01 


00 


40 


06 


84 


- 


- 


- 


- 


गय प्रमम 


ग्राम 


- 


- 


. 


. . 


भाग II - - पए 3( ii ) ] भाग्न का राजपत्र - मितम्बर 24 , 1977 / आश्विन 2, 1899 

3435 
- - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - 
New Delhi, the 7th September, 1977 

भूमियो में उपयोग का अधिकार पाइप लाइन बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए 
S . O . 2978 . — Whereus by a notification of ihc Government एतदद्वारा अजित किया जाना है । 
of India in the Ministry of Petroleum) , S . O . 767 dated 15- 2 - 77 
Under sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 3 of the Petroleum anel 

और , प्रागे उम धाग को उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा पदन शक्लियो का 
Minerals Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Lund) 
Act, 1962 ( 50 of 1962) the Central Government declared its प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार निर्देश देती है कि उन भमियों में उपयोग 
intention to acquire the Right of Uses in the lands specified 

का अधिकार केन्द्रीय मरकार में विहित होने के बजाय तल और 
in the schedule appended to that notification for the purpose 
of laying pipeline; 

प्राकृतिक गैस प्रायोग में सभी बन्धनों से मस्त गप में छप घोष गा के 
And whereas the Competent Authority has under sub 

प्रकाशन की इस तारीख को निहित होगा । . 
section ( 1 ) of section 6 of the said Act, submitted report to 
the Government; 

मनमी 
And further whereas the Centrnl Government has after भद्रमागर कृप नम्बर 81 से गद्रमागर जो जो एम . नम्वर 2 तक 
considering thc said report , decided to acquire the Righ of 

की पाइप लाइन 
User in the lands specilied in the schedule appended to this 
notification ; 

जिला · शिवमागर 

नालुका , मेलेगा 
Now therefore in exercise of the power conferred by 

बनगांव 
sub-section ( 1 ) of the section 6 of the said Act, the Ccnrtal 
Government hereby declares that the right of user in the 

मर्वे नम्बर हेक्टेयर र मन्टी 
said lunds specified in the schedule appended to this noti 
ficution hereby acquired for laying the pipelines; 

- . - - 
And whereas the Competent Authority has under Sub 

रूपही बिल 
6757 

080 
section ( 4 ) of that section, the Central Government directs 
that the right of user in the said lands shall instead of vest 

675ग 04 18 
ing in the Central Government vest on this date of the puh 
lication of this declaration in the 

01 

678 
Oil & Natural Gas 
Commission free from all encumbrances . 

676 

2194 
SCHEDULE 

[मं० 1 2020/ 4/ 75- एल . एण्ड एल . ] 
For Laying Pipelinc from D . S. SBD to D .S. SDO 

S . O . 2979 . - - Whereas by a cotification of the Government 
State : Gujarat District & Taluka : Mehsana of Indiu in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals (De 

partment of Petroleum) S . O . No . 5147 dated 17- 11 - 1975 
Village Survey No . Areal 

under sub-section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the Petroleum and 
Minerals Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) 

Act, 1962 ( 30 of 1962 ), the Central Government declared 
Hec - Are Centi ita intention to acquire the Right of User in the lands spcci 
tarc 

fied in the schedule appended to that notification for the 

purpose of laying pipelines; 
Mehsana . . 2004/ 288 

0 1140 

And whereas thc Competent Authority has under sub 
2004 / 287 0 0660 

section ( 1) of section 6 of the said Act, submitted report to 
2004/ 286 

0 0100 the Government; 
2004 / 285 

0 08 64 
2004 / 280 00100 

And further whereas the Central Government has after 

considering the said report , lecided to acquire the Right of 
2004 / 281 / P 

00840 User in the lands specified in the schedule appended to this 
2004 / 281 / P 

00684 notification ; 
2004 / 279 00600 

Now therefore in exercise of the power conferred by 

sub - section ( 1 ) of the section 6 of the said Act, the Central 
[ No . 12016/2/ 76- L & L ] 

Government hereby declares that the right of user in the 

vaid lands specified in the schedule appended to this noti 
का० मा0 2979. -- यतः पेट्रोलियम और खनिज पाइप लाइन ( मि fication hereby acquired for laying the pipelines; 
के उपयोग के अधिकार का प्रर्जन ) अधिनियम , 1962 ( 1962 का And further in excrcise of the power conferred by sub 

section ( 4 ) of that section, the Central Government directs 
50 ) को धाग 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन भारत सरकार के पेट्रो 

that the right of user in the said lands shall instead of vest 
मियम और रसायन मंबालय ( पेट्रोलियम विभाग ) की अधिसूचना का० ing in the Central Government vest on this date of the pub 

lication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas 
मा . मं० 5147 भारीख 17- 11- 75 द्वारा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उस Commission free from all encumbrances , 
अधिसूचमा से संलग्न अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट भूमियों के उपयोग के अधि 

SCHEDULE 
कार को पाइप लाइनो को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए अर्जित करने का 
अपना प्राशय घोषित कर दिया था । 

Pipeline from Rudrasagar well No . 81 to Rudrasagar 

GGS No . 2 
और यन : मभम प्राधिकारी ने उक्त , अधिनियम की धारा की State : Assam District : Sibsagar Taluk : Metckabon 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन सरकार को रिपोर्ट के वी है । 

Gaon . 
Village 

Survey 
और आगे, यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उक्त रिपोर्ट पर विचार करने 

Tree Arc Centi 
No. 

tare 
के पश्चात् इम अधिसूचना गे मनम्न अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट भूमियों में 
उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का विनिश्चय किया है । 

Rupahibil . . 675 Cha 

675 Ga 
अब यतः उक्न अधिनियम की धारा 6 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा 

678 Kha 02 
प्रवल पाक्ति का प्रयोग करते हाए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा पोषिप्त 

676 Ka 021 
करती है कि इस अधिसूचना में संलग्न अनुमची में विनिर्दिष्ट उक्त 

[ No . 12020 / 4 / 75- L & L ] 


ure 


- - - - - 


are 


- - 


- - _ 


80 


18 


3436 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ ASVINA 2, 1899 


PART II — SEC . 36i)] 


___ शुखि -पत्र 
का० आ० 2980. -- पैट्रोलियम मंत्रालय , नई दिल्ली दिनांक 
16-12-1974, पेट्रोलियम और खनिम पाइप लाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग के 
अधिकार का अर्जन ) , अधिनियम, 1962, जिला-अहमदाबाद । 

पेट्रोलियम और स्खनिज पाइपलाइन अधिनियम , 1962 की धारा 
3 की उप -धारा ( 1 ) और धारा 6 की उप -धारा ( 1 ) के अन्तर्गत 
गुजरात राज्य के शिला पाहमदाबाद में तालुका वीरमगम , गाव- शालसामन 
में कूप संख्या 36 मे मी० टी० एफ० मे एन० के०- 53 मक भूमि के 
उपयोग का अधिकार, पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए पेट्रोलियम मंत्रालय , 
नई दिलो को क्रमश . अधिसूचना संख्या 120 16 / 12/ 74पाल . एण्ड एल० 
दिनांक 16-12-1974 तथा संख्या 12016 / 12/ 74- एल० एण्ड एल . 
दिनांक 30- 6- 1975 के साथ संलग्न अनुमूची के स्थान पर अब से नीचे 
दी गई अनुसूची को पढ़ें । 

के लिए 
- - - -. .. -- 
क्षेत्रफल 

क्षेत्रफल 
सर्वेक्षण हेक्टेयर एप्रारई सेन्टे - मर्वेक्षण हेक्टेयर एआरई मेन्टेयर 
सं० 

यर 
250/ 

1003 12 250003 12 


और आगे , यनः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उक्त रिपोर्ट पर विचार करने 
के पश्चात् इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुसूची में विनिविष्ट भूमियों में 
उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का विनिश्चय किया है । 

अब, यनः उक्न अधिनियम की धाग 6 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्ति का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा घोषित करती 
है कि इस अधिसूचना से मंलग्न अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट कम भूमियों में 
उपयोग का अधिकार पाइपलाइन बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतद्वारा 
अर्जित किया जाता है । 
___ौर , प्रागे उम धारा को उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्न शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार निदेश देती है कि उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग 
का अधिकार केन्द्रीय मरकार में विहित होने के बजाय तेल और प्राक 
तिक गैस प्रायोग में सभी बन्धनों में मुक्त रूप में , इम घोषणा के प्रकाशन 
की इस तारीख को निहित होगा । 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


अनुसूची 
रुद्रसागर कूप नम्बर 75 से रुद्रमागर जी० जी० एम० नम्बर 3 नक की 

पाइपलाइन 
राज्य : असम जिला : शिवसागर तालुका . मेतेका 

बनगांव 


- - ग्राम 


ग्राम 


मर्वे नम्बर 


हटेर 


र 


सेन्टी 


- - - - 


- 


[ संख्या 1 2016/ 12/ 74-एल० एण्ड एल . ] 


3 


4 


5 


ERRATUM 


जोलागाव 


__ 107 
0 1284 
0 1 07 

669 
0401 
06 56 


S . O . 2980 .- - Ministry of Petroleum, New Delhi , dated 
16 - 12- 74 , Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of Users 
in Land), Act, 1962, District - Ahmedabad . 

In schedule appended to the Government Notification 
Ministry of Petroleum , New Delhi No. 12016 / 12/ 74 - L & L dated 
16-12- 1974 , issued under section 3 (1 ) and Notification No . 
12016 / 12 / 74- L & L dated 30 - 6- 1965 issued under section 6( 1 ) of 
Petroleum Pipelines Act, 1972 , for the acquisition of right of 
user for laying pipeline from Well No. 36 to CTF to NK- 53 in 
Gujarat State , District - Ahmedabad , Taluka - Viramgam, 
Village - Balsasan. 


357ख 
358 
359 
360 
3307 
328 
415ख 
418 
462 
46Iख 
464ख 
600 


08 


0 12 31 
0 13 38 
U094 
08 03 
04 28 


Read 


For 


Aroa 


[मं० 120 20/ 5/ 75- एल . एण्ड एल . ] 

टी० पी० मुब्रमनियन , अवर सचिव 


Survey 
___ No. 


Aroa 
Hec- Are Centi- 
tare are 


Survey 

No . 


Hec - 
tare 


Are Centiarc 


- - - - - 


- 


- - 


250/1 


0 


03 


12 


2500 


0 3 


12 


[ No . 12016/12/74- L & L ] 


नई दिल्ली , 8 सितम्बर , 1977 


का मा० 2981 यतः पेट्रोलियम और खनिज पाइपलाइन ( भूमि 
के उपयोग के अधिकार का प्रर्मन ) अधिनियम , 1962 ( 1962 का 
50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन भारत सरकार के पेट्रो 
लियम और रसायन मंत्रालय ( पेट्रोलियम विभाग ) की अधिसूचना 
का० प्रा० सं० 5667 तारीख 28- 11- 75 द्वारा केन्द्रीय मरकार ने उम 
मधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुसूची में विनिर्विष्ट भूमियों के उपयोग के अधि 
फार को पाइप लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए अर्जित करने का 
अपना प्राशय घोषित कर दिया था । 

भोर यतः मक्षम प्राधिकारी ने उपन , अधिनियम की धारा 6 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन सरकार को रिपोर्ट दे दी है । 


New Delhi ,the 8th September, 1977 
S .O . 2981. - Whereas by a notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals (De 
partment of Petroleum) S . O . No. 5667 dated 28- 11- 1975 under 
Sub-section ( 1 ) of Section 3 of the Petroleum and Minerals 
Pipelincs (.Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act, 1962 
( 50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government declared its intention 
to acquire the Right of User in the lands specificd in iho 
schedule appended to that notification for the purpose of 
laying pipelines; 

And whereas the Competent Authority has under sub 
Section ( 1 ) of section 6 of the said Act, submitted report to 
the Government; 

And further whereis the Central Government has after 
considering the said report, decided to acquire the Right of 
User in the lands specificd in the schedule appended to this 
notification ; 

Now therefore in exercise of the power conferred by 
sub -section ( 1 ) of the section 6 of the said . Act. the Central 
Government hereby declares that the right of user in the 
said lands specified in the schedule appended to this noti 
fication hereby acquired for laying the pipelines ; 


- - 


- 


tare 


are 


84 


- 


0 


०००००००००००० 


.0 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


आग ][ - - मण्ड 3 (ii) ] भारत का राजपत्र : मितम्बर 24, 1977 / आश्निन 2 , 1899 

3437 
-- - -- - --- - - -- -- - 
And further in cxercise of the power conferred by sub 

यह अधिसूचमा स्वास्थ्य और परिवार कल्याण मंत्रालय ( स्वास्थ्य 
section ( 4 ) of that section, the Central Government directs 

विभाग ) की 2325 अप्रैल , 1977 की अधिसूचना सं० वी० 1 10 1 5 
that the right of user in the said lands shall insteacl of vest 
ing in the Central Government vest on this date of the pub 3/ 77-एम० पी० टी० का प्रधियमण करती है । 
lication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas 

[ मं० वी० 140 1 5/ 3/ 77-एम०पी०टी०, ( पी०एम०म० )] 
Commission free from all encumbranccs. 

... प्रेम नाथ माध, प्रवर मषिष 
SCHEDULE 

MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY WELFARE 
Pipeline from RDS Well No. 75 to RDS GGS No. 

(Department of Health ) 
State : Assam Dist . : Sibsagar Taluk : Meteka 

New Delhi, the 5th September, 1977 
Bongaoni . 

S . O . 2982, - Whereas the Indian Nursing Council has , by 

a resolution passed at a nieeting held on thc 7th September, 
Village Survey No . Hec - Are Centi 

1976 , in pursuance of sub -5ection ( 2 ) of section 10 of the 
Indian Nursing Council Act, 1947 ( 48 of 1947) declared 

that the Certificate in Public Health Nursing granted by the 
Jolagaon . . 357 Khai 

107 Director of Health Services , Kerala (when granted between 
358 Kha 

the 1st August, 1961 and 23rd October , 1971) shall be 
359 Kha 

07 

recognised as higher qualification for the purposes of the 

said Act ; 
360 Kha 

69 

And whereas the said resolution has been published 
330 Kha 

in 
the Official Gazette with the notification of the Indian Nus 
328 Kha 

ing Council No. 11 - 1 / 76 -INC , dated the 27th January, 
415 Kha 

1977 , as required by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 15 of the 

said Act ; 
418 Ka 
462 Kha 0 13 38 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of sub -section ( 2 ) of sec 

tion 15 of the said Act. the Central Government 
461 khu 0 94 

hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the Schedule to 
464 Kha 

803 the said Act so as to bring it into accord with the said 
600 Kha 

4 28 declaration, namely : 

In the Schedule to the said Act , in Part II, Linder the 
[ No. 12020 / 5/ 75- L & L ] heading " Recognised Higher Qualifications " , after entry 28 , 

the following entry shall be inserted , namely : 
T. P . SUBRAHMANYAN , Under Socy . 

" 29 . Director of Health Certificate in Public Healh Nur 

Services , Kerala , sing (when granted between the 
स्वास्थ्य और परिवार कल्याण मंत्रालय 

Trivandrum " . Ist August, 1961 and 23rd 
( स्वास्थ्य विभाग ) 

October , 1971 ) ( both date 

included ) / 
नई दिल्ली, 5 मिप्तम्बर, 1977 

This supercedes the Ministry of Health and Family 

Planning ( Department of Health ) notification No. V . 14015 / 
का० आ०2982 : -~-यत . भारतीय नसिंग परिषद् अधिनियम , 1947 

3 / 77- MPT dated 23 / 25 April, 1977 . 
( 1947 का 48 ) की धारा 10 की उप-धारा ( 2 ) के अनुसरण में 

[ No . V . 14015 / 3 / 77- MPT (PMS)] 
भारतीय नसिंग परिषद् ने 7 सितम्बर , 1976 को हुई एक बैठक में 
पारित एक प्रस्ताव द्वारा यह घोपित किया है कि स्वास्थ्य मेवा निदेशक , 

कृषि और सिंचाई मंत्रालय 
केरल द्वारा जन स्वास्थ्य नसिंग में ( जब 1 अगस्त , 1961 से 23 

( प्राम विकास विभाग ) 
प्रस्तुबर , 1971 के दौरान प्रदान किया गया हो ) प्रवान किया गया 
प्रमाण पत्र उक्त अधिनियम के प्रयोजनों के लिए एक मान्यता प्राप्त 

नई दिल्ली, 8 सितम्बर 77 
प्रर्हता होगी ; 

का आ० 2983. -- नियमों का निम्नलिखित प्रामप, जिसे केन्द्रीय 
और यतः उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 15 की उपधारा ( 1 ) दाग मरफार, कृषि उपज ( श्रेणीकरण और अंकन ) अधिनियम , 1937 ( 1937 
यथापेक्षित उक्त प्रस्ताव को भारतीय नर्मिग परिषद् की 27 जनवरी, 1977 का 1 ) की धारा 3 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए बनाने 
की अधिसूचना संख्या 11- 1 - 1976 पाई० एन० सी० के साथ सरकारी की प्रस्थापना करती है, उफ्त घाग की अपेक्षानमार , उन मभी व्यक्तियों 
राजपा में प्रकाशित कर दिया गया है । 

की जानकारी के लिए प्रकाशित किया जाता है जिनका उसके द्वारा 

प्रभावित होना संभाव्य है, और सूचना दी जाती है कि उक्त प्रारूप पर 
प्रन: अब उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 15 की उप-धाग ( 2 ) के 

इस अधिसत्रमा के गजपत्र में प्रकाशन की तारीख में तीन माम 
अनुसरण में भारत मरकार उक्त अधिनियम की अनुसूची में एतद्वारा 

और पन्द्रह विन की अवधि की समाप्ति के पश्चात् विचार किया जायेगा । 
प्रागे और मंगोधन करती है ताकि इसे उक्त घोषणा के अनुरूप लाया 
जाए, अर्थात् : 

उक्त प्रारूप की बाबत किमी व्यक्ति मे यिनिर्दिष्ट तारीख के पूर्व जो 

प्राक्षेप या समाव प्राप्त होंगे उन पर केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा विचार किया 
उक्त अधिनियम की सूची के भाग 2 में शीर्ष मान्यता प्राप्त उच्चतर 

जायेगा । 
अहलाएं के अन्तर्गत प्रविष्टि 28 के बाद निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि रखी 

नियमों का प्रारूप 
जाएगी , अर्थात् . --- 

1. मंक्षिप्त नाम मोर खागू होना : -- ( 1 ) इन नियमों का संक्षिप्त 
" 29 स्वास्थ्य मेवा निदेशक , केरल , जन स्वास्थ्य नमिंग में प्रमाणपत्र 

नाम प्रगर प्रगर ( श्रेणीकरण और चिन्हांकन ) नियम , 1977 है । 
विवेन्द्रम " जब 1 अगस्त , 1961 

( 2 ) ये भारत में उत्पादित अगर अगर को लागू होंगे । 
और 23 प्रमसमर , 1971 
नक ( दोनों तारोमें मिला 

2. परिभाषाएं : - - हन नियमों में : 
फर) की अवधि में प्रदान 

( i ) कृषि विपणन मलाहकार में भारत सरकार का कृषि मिपणन 
किया गया हो । 

मलाहकार अभिप्रेत है ; 
80 GI / 77 -- 5 


3438 


THE GAZETTE OFINDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ ASVINA 2 , 1899 


[ PART II _ SEC. 3( Hy 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - - 


.. - - - --- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


( ii ) अनुगची से इन नियमों में गलग्न अनुमची भिपत है । 

( घ ) पैक करने का स्थान ; 
अंगो अभिधान: - - अगर अगर फी मालिटी दिशा करने के 

( स ) शुद्ध मार । 
लिए श्रेणी अभिधान वह होगा जो अनमची ? के स्तम्भ । में दिया गया 

( 3 ) प्राधिकृत पैकर, कृषि विपणन मालाहकार का पूर्व अनुमोदन 
अभिप्राप्त करने के पश्चात्, कृषि विपणन मलाहकार द्वारा अनुमोदिन रीति 

म प्राधान पर अपना प्राइवेट व्यापार चिह्न अंनिन कर सकेगा, परन्तु 
4. श्रेणी अभिधान-चिन्न : -. .( 1 ) र श्रार निम श्रेणी अभिधान 

यह तब अब पारनंट व्यापार चिह्न , इन नियमों क अनुसार प्रधान पर 
चिन्न पल लेक्षित होगा जिनमें कृषि विपणन मलायकार द्वारा अनुमादित 

चिपकायं गए श्रणी अभिधान-विह्न ग उपदशिन अगर अगर की स्वालिटी 
श्रेणी बिनिदिष्ट होगी और जिम पर "एगमार्क शन्द के माथ भारत के 

या श्रेणी से भिन्न क्वालिटी या श्रेणी गिन न करना हो । 
मानचिन्न की रूपरेखा और भारतीय उत्पाद " शब्दों के माथ उगने हा, 
मूर्य का चित्र होगा तथा यह चिल पनुमची- 1 में दिये गये विह 

7. पैकिग को पद्धति : - - अगर प्रगर नाग , मममन और स्पष्ट 

प्लास्टिक प्राधान और रण ( फाइबर ) से बनी गई परसदार थैलियां , टीनों , 
सदृश होगा । 

पेपर-काटनी में ही , जिसके अन्दर कपि विपणन मलाष्टकार द्वारा अनुमोदिन 
( 2 ) अगर अगर की दशा में श्रेणी अभिधान --चिह्न एक ऐसा 

प्राकार गयं प्रकार की गोलिथीन की थैली हो , पैक किया जायेगा । प्राधान 
रिजाइन भी हो सकता है, जिसमें प्राधिकार प्रमाणपत्र की सच्या, और 

को अच्छी तरह भरा जायेगा , जिसमें कि अन्तर्वस्तुओं के संदूषण को 
शब्द " एगमार्क और कृषि विपणन गलाहकार डाग प्रनुमोदिन श्रेणी " रोका जा गके , और कृषि विपणन मलाहकार द्वारा अनुमोदित रीति से 
होंगे । 

मजबूती से बन्द कर दिया जायेगा । 
5. क्याग्निटी की परिभाषा :- - श्रेणी अभिधान द्वारा उपणित क्वालिटी 

8. प्राधिकार प्रमाणपत्र की यिशंग गर्ने :--- माधारण श्रेणीकरण और 
यह होगी जो अनसूची 2 के स्तम्भ 2 में 11 में दी गई है । 

अंकन नियम , 1937 के नियम 1 में विनिदिष्ट गों के अतिरिक्त , 
6 अंकन पी पद्धति : -- ( 1 ) श्रेणी अभिधान-बिह प्रत्येक आधान अनुमची : में दी गई शर्तों का भी , कुषि विपणन मलाहकार के 
पर , कृषि विपणन गलाहकार द्वारा अनुमोदित गैति मे , मजबूती में चिप ममाधानप्रद मप में , प्राधिकार प्रमाण-पत्र के प्रत्येक धारक द्वारा पालन किया 
काया या छापा जायेगा । 

जायेगा । 
( 2 ) उपरोक्न अतिरिक्त प्रत्येक प्राधान पर निम्नलिखित विणिष्टियां 

अनुसूची- 1 
भी स्पष्टतः और इस प्रकार अंफित की जायेंगी कि उन्हें मिटाया न जा 
मफे , अर्थान् :--- 

अगर प्रगर का श्रेणी अभिधान-चिह्न 
( क ) पैक करने की तारीख, कोड नं० या मावे अक्षरों में ; 

[नियम 4 ( 1 ) देखिय ] 
( ब ) लाट सल्या ; 

शब्द " एगमार्क " के साथ भारत का मानचित्र और " भारतीय उत्पाद 
( ग ) पैकर का नाम और पता , 

शब्दों के माथ " उगता हुप्रा " सूर्य । 

अनुसूची- 2 
अगर अगर को क्यालिटी का श्रेणी अभिधान और परिभाषा 

[ नियम 3 और 5 देखि 
क्यालिटो को विशिष्टियां 

विशेष लक्षण 


- 


- 


- - . - 


- 


- 


- . 


. 


- 


.. 


- 


- 


. 


श्रेणी अभिधान 


स्टार्च सीर 
बस्टीन 


जल अवशोषण पांच मूल सम्म अम्ल म अविलय जिलेटिन 

धंदे तक का भार प्रथिनेय पदार्थ 
105 के अन- भस्म का का भार 
सें० पर सार भार के प्रत् 
समाने प्रमिशन के अन- गार । 
पर भार अधिना - मार प्रतिणत 
के अन - तम प्रतिशत अधिक 

अधिना- तम 
नर्ग। श्री 

सम 
पति 
णतना 
अधि : 
तम 


आजिनिक सीमा ( Pb. साधारण लक्षण 
जैस ( as ) के रूप 
मिनो में ) 

ग्राम , मिनी 
किना- ग्राम , 
ग्राम विलो 
अधिक - ग्राम , 
नम अधिक 

मम 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


-- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


माधारण 


0 


6 . 5 1 .11. ) अनुपस्थित 


अनुमान 


30 10 


हमके भार का 
चार गुना 


अगर प्रार, रोटीफिन वर्ग को 
लाल काई मे नि मारिन 
( नुवापा हमा ) हाइडापि नक 
कोनाइडाल पाली गेलाटामाइड 
होगा जैसे गेमोहिला 
जान योर गमारिया जानि । 
य , पानो पट्टियों के बदल 


. . 


- 


- . . - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


__ . . - . 


- . . - 


- 


- . . 


- - 


-- -- - 


- - - 


-- -- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


[ भाग II - - खण्ट (ii) ] 


भारत का राजपत्र : सितम्बर 24, 1977/ आश्विन 2, 1899 
- - -- - - - - -- - - - 

- - - - -- - 


3439 
- - - - --- - - - - - - - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


7 


- 


11 


। 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- - - - - - 

- - - - - -- -- - - 
___ अनुसूची - 3 
प्राधिकार प्रमाण -पत्र की विशेष शर्ते 

- [नियम 8 देखिए] 
( i) प्राधिकृत पकर को प्रमस्करण, भंगरकरण और पैक करने के 

दोगन अगर अगर के किमी प्रदूषण को दूर करने के लिए 

सभी सावधानिया बरतनी होगी । 
( ii ) प्राधिकृत पैकर अगर अगर के परीक्षण के लिए ऐसी व्यवस्था 

करेगा जैमी कृषि विपणन मलाहकार वारा समय-ममन पर 
विहित की जाये । वह नमूनों के विश्लेषण का ममचिम 

अभिनित भी रखेगा । 
( iii ) नमूने लेने, विश्लेषण फग्न, सील करने और आधानो को 

चिन्हित करने और अभिलेखों प्रादि को रखने की पतियों 
के संबंध में ऐसे मभी अनुदेशों का , मस्ती में पालन किया 
जायेगा जो कृषि विपणन मलाहकार द्वारा समय- समय पर 

जारी किये जाये । 
( iv ) कृषि विपणन सलाहकार द्वारा विहित रीति से प्रत्यक लाट में 

में लिया गया अगर अगर का नमूना उम नियंत्रण प्रयोगशाला 

को भेजा जायेगा जिसे समय - समय पर निर्देश दिया जाये । 
( v ) प्रत्येक प्राधान को केवल एक लाट के अगर अगर रो भरा 

जायेगा । 
( vi ) प्राधिकृत पैकर ऐमी मभी सुविधा प्रदान करेगा जो इस निमित्त 

कृषि विपणन सलाहकार द्वारा मम्यक म्प में प्राधिकृत निरीक्षण 
अधिकारी के लिए श्रावश्यक हो । 

[मं० 1.5- 1/ 75- J०म० ] 
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION 

(Department of Rural Development) 

New Delhi, the 8th September . 1977 
$ . O . 2983. — The followiny draft of which the Central 
Government proposes to make, in exercise of thc puwers 
conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Producc (Grading 
and Marking ) Act, 1937 ( 1 of 1937 ) , is hereby published , us 
required by the said section for the information of all per 
sons likely to be affected thereby, and notice is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consicleration after 
the expiry of a period of ihree inonths and fificen qays fioni 
the date of publication of this notification in the Oficial 
Gazette . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from 
any person with respect to the saill draft before the period 
so specificd , will be considered by the Central Govern 


- - - - . - - 
या को परोदार , दाने 
दार या चर्ग रूम में वाणि 
ज्यिक मा म उपलभ्य होगा । 
यह रंग में मफेद में लेकर 
फाका पाला नक होगा । 
यह या तो गंधहीन होगा 
म काकीनी मणिक 
गं होगी और मनष्यकीय 
म्याद पता होगा । अगर 

अगर परे मन में विलय 
हागा मान्न उमेलते जल म 

सा । 
cultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of 

India ; 
(ii ) " Schedule means a Schedule appe.vded to these 

rules. 
3. Gade designation . — The grade designation to indicale 
the quality of Agar Agar shall bcns set out in column 1 
of Schedule II . 

4 . Grade designation mark, — ( 1 ) The grade designation 
mark for Agar Agar shiill consist of . lubel specifying the 
Graclc approved by the Agricultural Marketing Advisor und 
hearing the design consisting of an outline map of lodii with 
the word Agmark and figure of rising sun with the words 
Produce of India and l esembling the mark set out in 
Schedule- I. 

( 2 ) The grade designatiuni mark in care of Agar Agar 
may also consist of a design incorporating the number of 
Certificate of Authorisation , the word " Agmark and the 
Gradc approved by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser . 

5 . Definition of quality .- - The quality in licited by grade 
designation shall be as set out in columns 2 10 11 of 
Schedule - II . 

6 . Method of marking - - 11) The grade lesiymion marki 
shall be securely atlixed to or printed on eich continer in 
a manner approved by the Agricultural Marketing Advisei. 

( 2 ) In addition to the above, the following raili ulur: 
shall also be clearly and indelibly marked i cich lainer ; 
namely : 

(a ) dalc of packing in code or plvin letters ; 
( b ) lot No . 
( c ) name and address of packci ; 
( d ) place of packing; 

( c ) net weight. 
( 3 ) An authorised Packer nav after obtain n ! The pe 
vious approval of the Agricul ural Marketing Advier, mark 
his private trade mark on a container, in a poner a loved 
by the Agricultural Marketing Advisci , provided that the 
private trade mark does not represent quality or grade of 
Agar Agar diffcicnt from that indicate y grande esigna 
tion mark aſlixed on the container in accordance with these 
rules . 

7 . Method of Pucking.. . Agar Agar : 11 :1he Tred in 
only new , sound and clean plastic container til fly . 1411en 
Jiminaled bags, lins, paper cuto : with plythew 18: 9 in 
side of type and size approved by the Agricultrid Market 
ing Adviser. The container shall he well filled v os tu 
preclude contamination of contents and securely ivci in & 
manner approved by the Agricultural Marketing Advisor. 
___ 8. Special conditions of Certificate of Authorisation - ~-In 
iddition to the conditions specified in rule 1 of the General 
Grading and Marking Rules . 1937, th : conditions is ect out 
in Schedule IIT shall also be observed by every holder of 
Certificate of Authorization to the satisfaction of the Agri 
cultural Marketing Adviser . 

SCHEDULE - I 
Grade Designntion Mack of Agar Agur 

____ [ See rule 4( 1 )] 
MAP OF INDIA WITH WORD AGMARK AND 
RISING SUN WITH WORDS PRODUCE OF INDIA . 


ment. 


DRAFT KULES 
1. Short titlc and application. - -( 1 ) These rules may be 
called Agar Agar ( Grading and Marking ) Rules, 1977 . 

(2 ) They shall apply 10 Agar Agar produced in India. 
2 . Definitions. — In these rules , – 

(i) " Agricultural Marketing Adviser " Imeans the Agri 


3440 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977 /AŞVINA 2 , 1899 

(Part II — SEC . 3(ii )] 
2 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

SCHEDULE -II 
Grade designation and defnition of quality of Agar Agar 

[Scc rules 3 and 5 ] 


PARTICULARS OF QUALITY 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


General Characteristics 


Grade Water 
designation absorp - 

tion 


Moisture Total 
percentash per - 
by wieght cent by 
Trying at weight 
105° C . maximum 
for five 
hours 
maximum 


SPECIAL CHARACTERISTICS 
- - - - - - - - - 

- 
Acid Insoluble Gelatin Starch Arsenic Lead 
insoluble matter 

and (as As) ( as Pb ) 
ash per percent 

Dextri - miligran , miligram , 
cent by by weight 

nes kilograni kilogram 
weight maximum 

maximun maximum 
maximum 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 
General 4 times of 20 6 . 5 1.0 1. 0 absent absent 3 . 

0 1 0 Agar Agar shall be dried 
its 

hydrophlic, colloidal 
weight 

polygalatosido extrac 
ted from rod algae of 
class Rhodophcal, 
such as Golidiella 
specios and Gracilaria 
specics . It shall be 
commercially availablo 
in bundles consiting 
of thin membranous 
strips or in cut, flaked , 
granulated or powder 
form . It shall be 
white to pale yellow 
in colour. It shall be 
oither odourless or 
having a slight charac 
teristic odour and a 
mucilaginous taste , 
Agar Agar shall be 
insoluble in cold water 
but soluble in boiling 
water. 

- - - - - 
SCHEDULE - II 

( vi) An authorised packer shall provide all facilities as 

may be necossary to the Inspecting officer, duly authorised 
Special Conditions of Certficate of Authori-atlun 

hy the Agricultural Marketing Adviser in this behalf . 
[Soc Rule] 

[No . 13 -4 /75-AM ] 
(i) An authorised packer shall take all precautions to avoid 
any contamination of Agar Agar during processing, storage 

Toato 2984.- ETT HAT , 4 344 ( TUTT ATT 
and packing 

Fonta ) fuften 1937 ( 193741 1 ) FT TOT 3 TT 947 
(ii) An authorised packer shall make such arrangement for 

शक्षिप्तयों का प्रयोग करते हुए , ऊन श्रेणीकरण और चिन्हांकन नियम 
testing of Agar Agar as may be prescribed from time to time 
by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser. He shall also main 1975 मे मौर संशोधन करना चाहती है । जंगा कि उक्त धारा में 
tain propor records of analysis of samples. 

प्रपेक्षित है , प्रस्तावित मंशोधमों का निम्नलिखित प्रारूप उन सभी व्यक्तियों 
( 111) All instructions regarding methods of sampling, analy की जानकारी के लिए प्रकाशित किया जा रहा है जिनके उससे प्रभावित 
sis , sealing and marking of containers and maintenance of 

होने की संभावना है । इसके द्वारा सूचना दी जाती है कि उक्न प्राम्प 
rocords etc ., which may be issued from tiine to time by the 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser shall be strictly observed . 

पर इम अधिसूचना के राजपत्र में प्रकाशन की तारीख से पनालीम दिन 
(iv ) A sample of Agar Agar drawn in a manner prescribed 

की अवधि की समाप्ति के पश्चात् विचार किया जायेगा । 
by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser from cach lot shuil he 
forwarded to such control laboratory as may be direcied from 
time to time. 

ऊपर विनिर्दिष्ट अवधि की समाप्ति मे पूर्व नियमो के उक्त प्रारूप 

की बाबत जो भी प्राक्षेप या सुझाब किसी व्यक्ति से प्राप्त होग केन्द्रीय 
(v) Each container shall be filled with Agar Agar from the 
same lot only . 

सरकार उन पर विचार करेगी । 


Special Conditions 


les autorisation 


[ भाग 


- - बार 3 ( ii )] 


भारत का रामपत्र : मितम्बर 24, 1977/ आश्मिन 2, 1899 


3441 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- -- 


- - - - 


यह अपज, उस वस्म के लिए विहित क्वालिटी की परिभाषा के अनमण न 
पाई जाए । 


परन्तु जन भी वितरयों को न कि प्राधिकृत पैकर की श्रेणीकृत उपज 
में श्रेणी अभिधान चिन्ह हटाया जाए तब प्राधिकृत पैकर, जब उसे कृषि 
विपणन मलाहकार भारत सरकार द्वारा वैमा निर्देश दिया जाए तब 
वितरक को , श्रेणी अभिधान मिन्ह के हटाए जाने के परिणामस्वरूप 
हुई हानि पूरी करेंगा, और यह हानि उम अनिरिमन मन्य के प्राधार पर 
प्राक्कलित की जायेगी जो उचित तौर पर श्रेणीकृत उपज मे , श्रेणीकृत 
उत्पाद की तन्मम मात्रा के पालू बाजार मूल्य मे ऊपर अभिप्राप्त हुआ 
होता । 


( ज ) कृषि अपज ( श्रेणीकरण और चिन्हन ) अधिनियम 1937 
के अधीन बनाए गए सभी नियमों ( और कृषि विपणन मलाहकार, भारत 
मरकार ताग, समय - समय पर जारी किए गए नमूना -- - ययन , विश्लेषण , 
मावधिक विवर्गणयां प्रस्तुत करने आदि से संबंधित सर्भ . अन्देशों ) का 
पालन किया जाएगा ; 


( म ) कोई भी प्राधिकार-पत्र , कृषि विपणन सलाहकार , भारत सरकार 
या केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा इस निमित्त प्राधिकृत किसी अन्य व्यक्ति द्वारा 
रद्द, प्रतिमहिन , उपान्तरित या निलंबित किया जा सकता है, परन्तु प्राधि 
कार- पन्न धारक को , प्राधिकार पत्र में कथित पते पर, 14 दिन पूर्व निखित 

प में सूचना दी जाएगी और उसे यह हेतुक दणित करने का अवसर 
दिया जाएगा कि उसका प्राधिकारयन रद्द, प्रतिसहित अपान्तरित या 
निलंबित क्यों न कर दिया जाए । 

( अ ) कोई भी प्राधिकार-पन्न धारषा, कृषि विपणन मलाहकार , 
भारत मरकार की लिखित महमति में , अपने कारबार के कागज पहा 
और सूची पन्नों पर एगमार्क डिजाइन की प्रतिकृति का उपयोग कर मकमा 


नियमों को प्राप 
1. इन नियमो का नाम ऊन श्रणीकरण और चिन्हाकन ( मशोधन ) 
नियम , 1977 है । 

2. ऊन श्रेणीकरण और चिन्हाकन नियम, 1975 में, -- 
( 1 ) नियम 4 में , उपनियम ( 2 ) में ,- - 

( क ) खण ( 1 ) और ( 9 ) में "वनम्पति रणे " णब्दो के पश्चात् 
" या कृत्रिम रेगे या क्षतिग्रस्न ऊन उदाहरणतया शानभग्रस्न , जनी ऊन 
आदि । ” शब्द रखें जायेंग : 

( ख ) खण्र ( 10 ) में , "पशु " शब्द में पूर्व “ अन्य शब्द अन्न स्थापित 
किया आयेगा ; 

( 2 ) नियम 1 .1 के पश्चात् निम्नलिखित नियम प्रतःस्थापित किया 
जायंगा , अर्थात् :- - 

" 14क . अभिमाजित ऊन के लाटों की दशा में , एगमार्क श्रेणीकरण 
प्रमाणपन्न के परिशिष्ट के रूप में एक प्रतिबन्धी प्रमाणपत्न, कृषि विपणन 
मलाहकार, भारत सरकार या इम निमित्त उपके द्वारा प्राधिकृत अधिकारी 
द्वारा जारी किया जायेगा । " 

( 3 ) नियम 15 के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित नियम रखा जायेगा , 
मर्थान् :- - 

" 15 प्राधिकरण की विशेष शर्ते :- - 
1. एक लाट में केवल एक श्रेणी की ही ऊन पैक को जायगी । 

2. इन नियमों के प्रयोजनो के लिए जारी किये गये प्रत्येक प्राधिकृत 
पन्न की गते निम्नलिखित होगी, अर्थात् :- - 

( क ) ऊन व्यापारियों के पग्मिर तथा गाठ दाम-यंत्र माफ और मुथरे 
होने चाहिये और उसमें ऊन माफ करने, उमकी छंटाई करने , गांठ मनाने , 
तोलने, भण्डारकरण , सरकारी निरीक्षण तथा चिन्हन हेतु पर्याप्त स्थान तथा 
मुविधायें होंगी । 

( ख ) नमूना लेने की पनि, परीक्षण , चिन्ह न और दाब से पहले तथा 
बाव में ऊन कि निरीक्षण और उनके अभिलेख रखने के बारे में , कृषि 
विपणन मलाहकार, भारत सरकार द्वारा गमय- समय पर जारी किये गये 
सभी अनुदेशों का सभी सम्बद्ध व्यम्तियों द्वारा पूरी तरह पालन किया 
जाये । 

( ग ) श्रेणी अभिधान चिन्ह केवल प्राधिक पत्र में उल्लिखित बस्नुमो 
पौर उममें उल्लिखित परिमगे को लाग हाग :- - 

( घ ) प्राधिकारपत्र के प्रवर्तन के दौरान, उमका धारक , सभी युमितय क्त 
समयों पर , उसमें नामित परिमगे में , कृषि विपणन मलाष्टकार, भारत 
मरकार या केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा मम्यान प्राधिकृत किसी भी व्यक्ति 
को पाने देगा पौर उमको यह अभिनिश्चित करने के लिये मुविधायें 
देगा कि चिन्ह न मही किया जा रहा है । 

( स ) प्राधिकार पन्न का धारक , प्रत्येक श्रेणी अभिधान से चिन्हित 
पैकरों की संख्या अभिलेग्य रखेगा कृषि विपणन सलाहकार , भारत सरकार 
या केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा सम्यक्तः प्राधिकृत किसी व्यक्ति को अभि 
लेखों की परिक्षा करने देगा । 

( प ) प्राधिकार-पत्र का धारक , कृषि विपणन मलाहकार, भारत सरकार 
या केन्द्रीय मरकार द्वारा मम्यक्तः प्राधिकृत किमी व्यक्ति को किमी 
श्रेणीकृम अपम का नमूना लन और श्रेणी प्रभिधान चिन्ह बाले किमी 
पैकेट का निरीक्षण करने देगा परन्तु यह लब जव कि सभी नमूनों के 
दाम में दिये गये हों : 

( छ ) कृषि विपणन मलाहकार , भारत सरकार या केन्द्रीय सरकार 
द्वारा निमिन्न प्राधिकृत कोई व्यक्ति किसी श्रेणीकृत अपज से श्रेणी अभिधान 
चिन्ह को रद्द कर गकता है या हटा सकता है यदि उस व्यक्ति द्वारा 


( ट ) श्रेणीकृत अपज को विहित रीति से चिन्हित करने के लिए 
अपेक्षित कोई स्टैमिल, रबर की मोहर , पंच मशीन या अन्य औजार 
अथवा लेबल केवान कृषि विपणन सलाहकार , भारत सरकार, या उसके 
द्वारा प्राधिकृत किमी व्यक्ति में , उनने दाम देकर अभिप्राप्त किए जाएंगे 
जितने केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वार। ममय-समय पर इम निमित्त नियत किये 
जाए; और थे , प्राधिकारपत्र के धारक द्वारा निरापद अभिरक्षा में रखा 
जाएगा और जब वह प्राधिकार-पत्र विधिमान्य न रहे तन मावरमाध्य , 
कृषि विपणन सलाहकार , भारत मरकार या अक्त प्राधिकृत व्यक्ति को 
बापिस कर दिए जाएंगे ; 

( 3 ) श्रेणीकृत अपज को विहित गति से चिन्हित करने के लिए 
अपेक्षित श्रेणी अभिधान चिन्ह प्लेबमो, या किसी स्टैमिल, रबड़ की मोहर , 
पंच मशीन या अन्य औजार का जारी किया जाना या प्रयोग , कृषि 
विपणम मलाहकार , भारत सरकार या उमझे द्वारा इस निमिन प्राधिकृत 
फिमी व्यक्ति द्वारा , जितनी वह बेहतर विपणन के हित में ममीधीन 
गमझे उतनी अवधि के लिए बिना सूचना के रोका जा सकता है या 
वापिस लिया आ सकता है, यदि उसका समाधान हो जाए या उसके पास 
यह विश्वास करने का कारण हो कि प्राधिकृप्त पैकर, श्रेणी अभिधान 
चिन्ह का मही रूप में प्रयोग नहीं कर रहा है या उसके मही रूप में 
प्रयोग करने की संभावना नहीं है । 

( E ) प्राधिकार -पन्न धारक , श्रेणी अभिधान चिन्हों से चिन्हित अनुसूची 
वम्मुमो का स्वालिटी-नियंत्रण प्रयत्न करने के लिए उपायो , जिनमें नमूनों 
का परीक्षण और अन वस्नों का निरीक्षण भी है, के संबंध में या ऐसी 
वस्तुओं के किमी वर्ग के विक्रय-संवर्धन के लिए किए गए प्रचार कार्य 
के संबंध में अपगल खौँ महे एमे प्रभागे का संवाय करेगा जो केन्द्रीय 
गरकार द्वारा, समय -समय पर विहिन किए जाए । 


3442 
- - - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ ASVINA 12, 1899 

[ PART II - SEC. 3(ii)] 
-- - - 
( 4 ) अनुमची 1 और उमसे संबंधित प्रविष्टियों के स्थान पर, निम्नलिखित अनुमची और प्रविष्टियां रखी जायेंगी, अर्थात : -- 


- - - - 


- - - 


अनुसची । 


[नियम 3, 4, 8, 9 और 10 देखिए] 


भारतीय कतरित तथा मिश्रित फम ने श्रेणी अभिधान तथा विशेष लक्षण 


श्रेणी अभिधान 


रेणे का रंग 


विशेष लक्षण 


अधिकतम वनस्पति द्रव्य 


टिप्पणियां 


प्रयोगणाला में अभिषाषित 
ऊन का प्रतिशत 


- ---- - - - - 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


. 


- 


- -- 


- - - - - - - 


- 


क . कत रित 


सफेद 


सफेद 


5 प्रतिशत ) 


हल्की सफेद 


हल्की मफेद 


5 प्रतिशत 


यदि वनस्पति व्य की मात्रा 3 प्रतिशत 

से ऊपर और 5 प्रतिशत तक हो 
तो यह एगमार्क श्रेणीकरण 
प्रमाणपत्र में उपशित किया 
जायेगा ; 


फीकी पीली 


80 से अधिक 
65 से अधिक 
90 से अधिक 
77 से अधिक 
60 से अधिक 
85 से अधिक 
90 से अधिक 
74 से अधिक 
70 से अधिक 
80 से अधिक 
85 से अधिक 
90 से अधिक 
70 से अधिक 
75 से अधिक 
80 से अधिक 


फीको पीली 


5 प्रतिशत 


पीली 


पीली 


5 प्रतिशत 


रंगीम 


रंगीन 


5 प्रतिशत 


स . मिभित 
सफेद 


सफेद 


5 प्रतिशत 


60 से अधिक 
85 मे अधिक 
90 से अधिक 


1 . यदि वनस्पनि द्रव्य की मात्रा 

3 प्रतिशत से ऊपर और 
5 प्रतिशत तक हो , तो यह 
एणमार्क श्रेणीकरण प्रमाण 
पत्र में उपशित किया 
जायेगा । 


5 प्रतिशत 


हल्की मफेद ) 
फीकी पीली 
पीली 


हल्की सफेद 
फीकी पीली 
पीली 


74 से अधिक 
77 से अधिक 
80 से अधिक 
85 से अधिक 


90 से अधिक 


2 . "मिश्रित " शब्द का अभि 
प्राय फतरित ऊन सहित 
कषिते ऊन तथा / प्रथया धुनी 
ऊन के मम्मिश्रण से है । यदि 
सम्मिश्रण 10 प्रतिशत से अधिक 
हो तो उसे मिश्रित घोषित किया 
जायेगा । यदि कषिते ऊन के तथा / 
अथवा धनी ऊन के मम्मिश्रण 
का प्रतिशत 25 से मधिक हो , 
ना इमे सम्मिश्रण की किस्म 
के प्राधार पर, यथास्थिति , 
कापसे ऊन या धुनो हुई ऊन 
घोपित किया जायेगा । 


रंगीन 


रंगीन 


5 प्रतिशत 


70 से अधिक 
75 से अधिक 
80 से अधिक 


[ भाग II - -- ण्ड 3 ( ii ) ] 


भारत का राजपत्र : सितम्बर 24 , 1977/ माधिवन 2, 1809 


3443 


1 - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


( 5 ) अनुसची 2 और उससे संबंधित प्रविष्टियों के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित मन्सची और प्रविष्टियों रखी जायेगी , अर्थात : - - 


" अनसनी 2 


[ नियम 2, 4, 8, और 10 देखिए ] 


भारतीय कषिते ऊन के श्रेणी अभिधान सभा विशेष लक्षण ) 

- -- - .. - - 
विशय लक्षण 


-- 


. 


श्रेणी अभिधान 


रेग का रंग 


टिप्पणियां 


प्रयोगशाला में अभिधषित अधिकतम घसम्पति द्रव्य 
उन का प्रतिशत 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


सफेद 


फषिते सफेद 


5 प्रतिशत 


पात 


। 


1 . यदि वनस्पति द्रव्य की माना 

3 प्रतिशत से अधिक तथा 5 
प्रतिशत तक हो तो इसे एगमार्क 
श्रेणीकरण प्रमाणपत्र में उपशिन 
किया जायेगा । 


फपिने हल्की सफेद 


हल्की सफेद 


5 प्रतिशत 


कषिर्स फीकी पीली 


फीकी पीली । 


8 ) से अधिक 
85 से अधिक 
40 से अधिक 
77 से अधिक 
80 से अधिक 
85 से अधिक 
74 से अधिक 
77 से अधिक 
80 में अधिक 
85 से अधिक 
90 से अधिक 
70 से अधिक 
75 से अधिक 
81) से अधिक 


5 प्रतिणन 


कषित पीली 


पोली 


5 प्रतिशत 


कपित रंगीन 


रंगीन 


5 प्रतिशत 


2. “ कषिते ऊन " का अभिप्राय चुने 

के स्पर्श से कपित ऊन से 
भिन्न ऊन है । 


- - - 


- - . 


- 


- . .. 


- 


- 


- 


6. अनुसूची 3 और उसमें संबंधित प्रविष्टियों के स्थान पर, निम्नलिखित अनुसूची और प्रविष्टियां रखो जायेंगो, अर्थात् . --- 


“ अनुमची 3 
[ नियम 3, 1, 8, 9 और 10 वेनिए ] 
भारतीय टैनरी ऊन ( चना म्पणिन ) के श्रेणी अभिधान नया विशेष लक्षण 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- - - -- 


श्रेणी अभिधान 


रेणे का रंग 


विशेष लक्षण 


टिप्पणियां 


प्रयोगशाला में अभिषितं ऊन अधिकतम वनस्पति द्रव्य 
का प्रतिशत 

- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


5 प्रतिशत 


। 


) 


5 प्रतिशत 


-- 


- - --- - 
( क ) दक्षिण भारतीय टेनरी तथा प्रवन प्रकार की ऊन मे भिन्न ऊन 
नास्पणित सफेद 

मफेद 

75 मे अधिक 
80 से अधिक 
85 से अधिक 

90 से अधिक 
जूनास्पशित हकी सफेद 

हल्की सफेद 

721 से अधिक 
चुनास्पणित फीकी पीली 

फीकी पीली 

75 से अधिक 
जूनास्पणित पीली 

पीली 

80 में अधिक 
55 से अधिक 

90 से अधिक 
चूनास्पणित रंगीन 

रगीन 

65 से अधिक 
70 से अधिक 
75 से अधिक 
80 से अधिक 


- 


यदि वनम्पति द्रव्य की मात्रा 3 प्रतिशत 

में अधिक तथा 5 प्रतिशत तक हो 
तो इसे एगमार्क श्रेणीकरण प्रमाणपत्र 
में उपशित किया जायेगा । " 


5 प्रतिशत 


- - 


- - - - 


3444 
- - - 


THE GAZETTE OFINDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ ASVINA 2, 1899 

- - -- - -- - - - - - - - - -- - - - -- 


- 


[ PART II _ SEC . 3( ii ) 
- - - - - - -- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


---- 


( ब ) दक्षिण भारतीय चर्मटेनरी तथा प्रदन प्रकार की ऊन 
टनरी मफेद 

सफेद 
टेनरी हल्की मफे 

हल्की मफेद । 
टेनरी फीकी पीली 

फीकी पीली 
टेनरी पीली 

पीली 
टेनरी रंगीन 


5 प्रतिशत 


-- 


रंगीन 


65 से अधिक 
70 में अधिक 
75 में अधिक 
80 में अधिक 
55 में अधिक 
60 से अधिक 
65 से अधिक 
70 में अधिक 
75 मे अधिक 


- 


5 प्रतिशत 


- - - - - 


- - - 


( 7 ) अनुसूची 5 और उससे संबंधित प्रविष्टियों के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित अनुसूची और प्रविष्टियां रखी जायेंगी अर्थात् : - - 


" अनुसची 5 


[नियम 3, 4, 8, 9 और 10 देखिए ] 


भारतीय प्राटी हुई ऊन का श्रेणी अभिधान तथा यिशेष लक्षण 


- - - 


- -- - - - 


श्रेणी अभिधान 


रेशे का रंग 


अधिकतम वनस्पति द्रव्य 


टिप्पणियाँ 


प्रयोगशाला में अभिषिते 
ऊन का प्रतिशत 


- . - - 
प्रोटी हुई मफेव 


मफेद 


5 प्रतिणत । 


80 मे अधिक 
85 से अधिक 
90 मे अधिक 


ओटी हुई हल्की मफेद 


हस्की मफेद ) 


5 प्रतिशत 


यदि यनम्पनि द्रव्य की मात्रा 

3 प्रतिशत से अधिक नथ। 
5 प्रतिशत तक हो तो इसे 
पगमार्क श्रेणीकरण प्रमाणपत्र 
में उपणित किया जायेगा " । 


प्रोटी हुई फीकी पीली 


फीकी पीली 


77 मे अधिक 
80 से अधिक 
85 से अधिक 
90 से अधिक 
74 से अधिक 
77 में अधिक 
80 से अधिक 
85 से अधिक 
90 से अधिक 
70 से अधिक 
75 से अधिक 
80 मे अधिक 


5 प्रतिशत 


प्रोटी हुई पीली 


मोटी हुई रंगीन 


रंगीन 


5 प्रतिशत 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


( 8 ) अनु मसी 6 मे , - - 


( क ) स्तम्भ 


और उमसे संमधिन प्रविष्टि के स्थान पर निम्नलिखिन स्तम्भ और प्रविष्टि रस्त्री आयेगी, अर्थात् : - - 


" प्रयोगशाला में अभिषित * * ऊन का प्रतिशत 


( 3 ) 


9 5 प्रतिणस और अधिक " 


( ब ) विद्यमान पाद टिप्पण के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित पाद टिप्पण रखा जायेगा, अर्थात् :- -- 


" ( 1 ) अभिषर्षित ऊन के लाटों की दशा में , लाट का शुद्ध भार और प्रतिबंधित भार भी श्रेणीकरण प्रमाणपत्र में किलोग्राम में उपशित किया जायेगा । " 


- 


- 


* * माई . एम . 1349 - - 1964 " 


[ भाग II - - खण्ड 3 ( ii ) ] 


भारत का राजपत : सितम्बर 24, 1977/ भाषिन 2, 1899 


3445 


( 9 ) अनमो : और उममे मेबंधित प्रविष्टियों के पश्चात् निम्नलिखित अनुमची और प्रविष्टिया जोड़ी जायेंगी , अर्थात :- - 

अनुसूची 9 
( नियम 14 क देखिए ) 

भारत सरकार 
कृषि और सिंचाई मंत्रालय 
( ग्रामीण विकास विभाग ) 
विपणन औरनिरीक्षण मिदेशालय 

( निर्गमन कार्यालय की मोहर ) 
प्रतिबन्धपत्र 

पहिचान परीक्षण 
ऊन का प्रकार . 
गठिों की संख्या 
जारी किये गए एगमार्फ 
लेषिलों की संख्या 

अभिषित ऊम 
कूल भार 
मकल भार ( कि . ग्रा . ) " 
घोषित प्राधेय भार ( कि . ग्रा . ) 
शुद्ध भार (किग्रा. ) 

परीक्षण परिणाम 
1 . क्रोड प्रतिदर्शभार 

. ग्रा० 
2. पावा शुष्क भार 

. ग्रा० 
3 . हानि . 

ग्रा० 
4. प्राबता अंश . 

प्रतिशत 
5. पलेवाप्ति ( रीगेन ) 

प्रतिशत 
शुर भार, भाषा शुष्क . 

कि०मा० या प्रतिमत 
प्रतिशत की राजकीय पलेदाप्ति 

कि०मा० या प्रतिमात 
परीक्षण के अनुमार इनवायसंभार 

कि०ग्रा० या प्रतिशन 
लाभ . 

कि०ग्रा० या प्रतिशप्त 
. . 
मूल शुख भार . 

कि०ग्रा० या प्रतिशत 
तारीख 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


आवेदन के हस्ताक्षर मोहर सहित 
[ मं० एफ० 13- 10/ 76 ए०एम० ] 

५० के० अग्रवाल , उप सचिव 


S . O , 2984. — The following draft of certain rules to amend 
the Wool Grading and Marking Rules. 1975 which the 
Central Government proposes to make, in exercise of tho 
powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce 
(Grading and Marking ) Act, 1937 ( 1 of 1937 ) , is hereby 
published , as required by the said section , for the information 
of all persons likely to be affected thereby , an dnotice is 
hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consider 
ation after the expiry of a period of forty -five days from the 
daic of publication of this notification in the Official Gazette . 


Any objection or suggestion which may be received from 
any person with respect to the said draft before the expiry of 
the period so specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 


wool , that is moth infested , burnt wool, etc." shall 

be inserted ; 
( b ) in clause ( x ), the word " other " shall be inserted 

in between the words " from " and " animal" ; 
( 2 ) after rule 14, the following rule shall be inserted, 

namely : -- 
"14 A . in the case of lots of scoured wool . a con 

ditioning certificate shall be issued by the Agri 
cultural Marketing Adviser to the Govesoment of 
India or an officer authorised by him in this behalf 
88 an appendix to the certificate of Agmark 

Grading." 
( 3 ) for rule 15, the following rule shall be substituted , 

namely : - - 
" 15. Special conditions of authorisation : -- 

1. Wool of one grade only shall be packed in onc lot . 
2 . The undermentioned conditions shall be the conditions 

of every Certificate of Authorisation issued for the 

purpose of these rules, namely : -- 
(a ) the premises of wool merchants and baling presses shall 
be clean and tidy and shall provide adequate space , facilities 


DRAFT RULES 
1. These rules may be called the Wool Grading and Mark 
ing ( Amendment ) Rules, 1977. 
2. In the Wool Grading and Marking Rules , 1975, 
(1 ) in rule 4, in sub-rule ( 2 ). 
(a ) in clauses (i) and (ix ), after the words " vegetable 

fibre" , the words " or synthetic fibre or damaged 
80 GI77 - 6 


3446 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977/ASVINA 2 , 1899 


[PART II - Sec , 3( 1)] 


for cleaning, sorting, baling, weighing, storage official inspec returns, etc ., which may be issued from time to time, by the 
tion and marking of wool; 

Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of India ) 

shall be observed ; 
(b ) all instructions regarding mothod of sampling , testing, 
marking and inspection of wool before and after thc pressing 

(i ) any Cortificate of Authorisation may be cancelled re 
and maintenance of records thereof, issued by the Agricultural voked , modified or suspended by the Agricultural Markcling 
Marketing Adviser to the Government of India from time to Adviser to the Government of India or by any other person 
time, shall be strictly observed by all concerned ; 

authorised by the Central Government in that behalf, pro 

vided that 14 days notice in writing shall be given to the 
(c ) grade designaiion marks shall only be applied to the 

Certificate holder at the address stated on the Certificate of 
articles mentioned in the Certificate of Authorisation and at 

Authorisation and an opportunity given him for showing cause 
the premises therein mentioned; 

why his Certificate of Authorisation shall not be cancelled , 
( d ) during the operation of the Certificate of Authorisation , 

revoked , modified or suspended ,; 
the holder thereof shall , at all reasonablo times , give access 

(1) any holder of a Certificate of Authorisation may , with 
to thc promises namod therein to any person duly authorised 
by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of 

the written consent of the Agricultural Marketing Adviser 

to the Government of India , use a replica of the Agmork 
India or by the Central Government and shull afford him 

design on his husiness papers and catalogues ; 
facilities for ascertaining that making is being correctly per 
formod . 

(k ) any stencil , rubber stamp, punch or other instrument 
(c ) the holder of the Certificate of Authorisation shall keep or label required for making graded produce in the prescribed 
a record of the number of packages marked with cach grade manner shall be obtained only from the Agricultural Market 
designation mark and shall permit any person duly authorised ing Adviser to the Government of India , or a person autho 
by the Agricultural Markcting Adviser to the Government of risod by him , on payment of such charges as the Central 
India or by the Central Government to examine the record ; Government may , from time to time, fix in this behalf shall 

be kept in safe custody by the holder of the Certificate of 
(f) the holder of the Certificate of Authorisation shall per 

Authorisation , and shall, so far as may be returned to the 
mit any duly authorised person by the Agricultural Markcting 

Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of India 
Adviser to the Government of India or by the Central Govern 

or such authorised porson when the Certificate of Authorisa 
ment to take samples of any grade produce or to open and 

tion ceases to be valid ; 
inspect any package bearing a grade designation mark , pro 
vided thut all samples shall be paid for ; 

(1) the issue or lise of grade designation mark labels or any 
(8 ) any person authoriscd in this behalf by the Agricultural stencil, rubber stamp, punch or other instrument required for 
marketing Adviser to the Government of India or by the marking graded produce in the prescibed manner may be 
Central Governmont may cancel or remove a grade designa withheld or withdrawn by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser 
tlon mark from any graded produco (should such produce be to the Government of India or a person authorised by him 
found by such person as not to comply with the definition of in this behalf without any notice , for such period as he may 
quality prescribed for that article ; 

consider cxpedient in the interest of better marketing, if he 

is satisfied or has reasons to believe that the authorised packer 
Provided that whenever grade designation marks are removed is not applying, or is not likely to apply , grado designation 
from graded produce belonging to distributors , and not to marks correctly . 
authorised packers , the latter shall, when so directed by the 
Agricultural marketing Adviser to the Government of India , (m ) the holder of a Certificato of Authorisation shall pay 
make good to the former any loss sustained as a result of the such charges as may be prescribed by the Central Govern 
removal of the grade designation mark . the loss being e6 ment, from time to time, towards the expenses incurred in 
timated on the basis of the additional value that the properly connection with measures for cnforcing the quality control of 
graded produce would have ob ained in the market over and scheduled articles marked with grade designation marks in 
above the current market value of the corresponding quantity cluding testing of samples and inspection of such articles 
of the ungraded product; 

or with any publicity work carried out to promote the sale 

of any class of such articles" ; 
( h ) all the rules made under the Agricultural produce 
(Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (and all instructions re 

(4 ) for Schedulc I and the entries relating thereto , the 
garding methods of sampling analysis , submission of periodical following Schedule and entries shall be substituted namely : 

SCHEDULE I 

[Sec rules 3 , 4 , 8 , 9 and 10 ) 
Grade Designation and Special Characteristics of Indian clipped and mixed wools 
Grade designation 

Colour of fibre SPECIAL CHARACTERISTICS 
Labouratory 

Maximum 
scoured yield Vogetable 

Remarks 
percent of 

matter 
wool 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


A . CLIPPED 
White 


Whito 


Over 80 
Over 85 
Over 90 


5 percent 


If the vegetable matter content is 
over 3 percent and upto 5 per 
cent it shall be indicated in the 
Certificate of Agmark Grading . 


Tinged 
White 


Tinged 
White 


Over 77 
Over 80 
Over 85 
Over 90 


5 percent 


IYTI 


Pale Yellow 


Pale Yellow 


5 percent 


Yellow 


Yellow 


Over 74 
Over 77 
Over 80 
Over 85 
Over 90 
Over 70 
Over 75 
Over 80 


Coloured 


Coloured 


5 percent 


[ATT I( -- 915 3 ( ii ) ] 


WTST 47 


: ficar 24 , 1977 / 1972, 1899 


3447 


- - 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- 


2 


B . MIXED 
Whitc 


White 


5 per cent ) 


Over 80 
Over 85 
Over 90 ) 


Tinged white 
Pale yellow 
Yellow 


Tinged whito 
Pale yellow 
Yellow 


Over 747 
Over 77 
Over 80 
Over 85 
Over 70 


ohn 


5 per cent 


5 per cent 


1. If the vegetable matter con 
tent is over 3 per cent and 
upto 5 per cent, it shall be 
indicated in the Certificate of 

Agmarh Grading. 
2 . The term " Mixed " shall 
mean admixturo of pulled 
wool and or carded wool with 
clipped wool. It shall bo 
declared as mixod if the 
admixture is in excess of 
10 per cent. If the percen 
tago of admixture of pulled 
and or carded wool exceeds 
25 por cent, it shall be 
declared as pulled wool or 
carded | wool, as the case 
may bo , depending on tho 
type of admixture " ; 


Coloured 


Coloured 


Over 70 ) 
Over 75 
Over 80 


15 ) for SCHEDULE II and the entries arelating thereto , the following Schedule and entries shall be substituted , namely 


Grade designation 


" SCHEDULE II 

[ See rules 3, 4, 8, 9 , and 10 ] 
Grade Designation and Special Characteristics of Indian Pulled Wool 
Colour of fibre SPECIAL CHARACTERISTICS 

Laboratory scoured yield per Maximum Vegetable matter 

cent of wool 
- - - - - - - - - 


Remarks 


- 


- - - 


- 


Pullc i White 

Whitc Over 80 ) 

1. If the vegetable mattor con 
Over 85 

5 per cent 

tent is over 3 per cent and 
Over 90) 

up to 5 per cent, it shall bo 
Pulled Tinged Whito Tinged White Over 77 

indicated in the Cortificate of 
Over 80 

5 per cent 

Agmark Grading . 
Over 85 
Over 90 

2. " Pulled Wool” means other 
Pulled pale yellow Pale yellow ? Over 74 

than limed pulled wool," ; 
Pulled yellow 

Yellow 

Over 77 
Over 80 

5 per cent 
Over 85 

Over 90 
Pulled coloured Colourcal 

Over 70 
Over 75 

5 por cent 
Over 80 
. . - . 

- - - - -- - - 
(6 ) for SCHEDULE III and the entrics relating thereto , the following schedule and entries shall be subsituttod , namely : -- 

" SCHEDULE III 

[See rules 3, 4 , 8, 9 and 10 ] 
Grade Designation and Special Characterisatics of Judlan Tanitery Wool (Lined ) 

--- - --- - - - - --- - 
SPECIAL CHARACTERISTICS 
Grad : designation Colour of Abre Laboratory scoured yield Maximum Vegetable 

Remarks 
per cent of wool 

matter 
- - - - - - - - - - - - 


— 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


5 per cent 


(a ) Wool other than South Indian Tannery and Aden Type 

Over 75 
Limad white 

White 

Over 80 
Over 85 

Over 90 
Limed Tinged wlute | Tinged White Over 721 

Ovor 75 
Limed Pale yellow Pale Yellow 

Over 80 
Limed Yellow 

Yellow 

Over 85 

Over 90 
Limed coloured 

Coloured 

Over 651 
Over 70 
Over 75 
Over 80 ) 


5 per cent 


If the vegetable matter content 

is over 3 per cont and up to 5 
por cent, it shall be indicated 
in the certificate of Agmarh 
Grading " ; 


5 per cent 
- - ---. . . - - 


- 


- -- - - - - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


3448 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977 / ASVINA 2 , 1899 


[PART II - SEC. 3( ii))* 


5 per cent 


1 
(b ) South Indian Tannery and Aden Type wools . 
Tannery White White 

Over 60 

Over 65 
Tannery Tinged white Tipged white Over 70 

Over 75 
Tannery pale yellow Pale yellow 

Over 80 
Tannery yellow 

Yellow 
Tannery Coloured Coloured 

Over 55 
Over 60 
Over 65 
Over 70 
Over 75 


5 per cent 


( 7 ) for SCHEDULE V and the entries relating thereto , the following Schedule and entries shall be substituted , namely : — 

SCHEDULE V 

[Sce rules 3, 4, 8, 9, and 10 ] 
Grade Designation and Special Characteristics of Indian Ginned Wool. 


SPECIAL CHARACTERISTICS 


Grade designation 


Colour of fibre 


Laboratory scoured of yield 

per cent of wool 


Maximum Vegetable 

matter 


Remarks 


4 


Ginned White 


White 


5 per cent 


Ginncd white 


Tinged white 


5 per cent 


Ginned Palc yellow 
Ginned yellow 


Pale yellow 
Yellow 


Over 80 
Over 85 
Over 90 
Over 77 
Over 80 
Over 85 
Over 90 
Over 74 
Over 77 
Over 80 
Over 85 
Over 90 
Over 70 
Over 75 
Over 80 


If the vegetable matter content 

is over 3 per cent and up to 
5 per cent, it shall be indicated 
in the Certificate of Agmark 
Grading" ; 


5 per cent 


Ginncd coloured 


Coloured 


5 per cont 


(8 ) in SCHEDULE VI , -- 

(a ) for column 3 and the entry relating thereto , the following column and entry shall be substituted , namely : 
" Laboratory Scoured * * 
Yield percentage 

( 3 ) 


95 % and over" ; 
(b ) for the existing footnote , the following foot note shall bo substituted , namely: 
" (1) The net weight and the conditioned weight of the lot in the case of lots of secoured wool shall also be indicated in the Certificato 

of Grading in Kg." 
(9 ) after SCHEDULE VIII and the entrles relating thereto, the following Schedule and the cntries shall be inserted , namely : 

" SCHEDULE LX 

(Sco rule 14A ] 

Government of India 
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURAL AND IRRIGATION 

(Departmont of Rural Development) 
Directorate of Marketing and Inspection 
(STAMP OF THE ISSUING OFFICE ) 
CONDITIONING CERTIFICATE 

TEST IDENTIFICATION 
Wool type : Scoured wool 
Number of bales : 
Number of Agmark labels issued : 
Total weight : 
Gross (Kg.) : 
Declared tare (Kg.) : 
Nett (Kg) ; 
* * I.S . : 1349 – 1964 " ; 


भाग II -- - खण्ड 3( ii ) ] 


भारत का राजपा : सितम्बर 24, 1977 / आश्विन, 2 1899 


3449 


- 


- . - 17 


- 


- 


- 


TEST RESULTS 

gms . 
mgs. 


girls . 
0 / 


1. Coresample weight : 
2. Oven dry weight : 
3 . Loss : 
4 . Moisture content : 
5. Regain : 

Net weight, Oven dry : 
Official Regain of. . % 
Invoice weight as per test : 
Gain : 
Original net weight : 


16 


Kg. or . . 
Kg. or . . 
Kg. or . . % 
Kg. or. . % 
Kg. or 100 % 


- - 


Date : 


Signature of the officer with stainp " 

[ No . F. 13- 10 /16 - AM ] 
A . K . AGARWAL , Dy. Sec . 


पर्यटन और नागर विमानन मंत्रालय 


नई दिल्ली, 7 सितम्बर, 1977 


नई दिल्ली , 31 अगस्त , 1977 


का०अ० 2986. – वामु निगम अधिनियम 19 5 3 ( 19 5 3 का 27 ) 
की धारा 4 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतद्वारा एयर इंडिया के प्रबंधक निदेशक श्री के०जी०पप्पूस्वामी को 25 
अगस्त 1977 ( पूर्वान्ह ) से तथा अगले आदेशों तक इंडियन एयरलाइन्स 
के निदेशक मंडल में निदेशक के रूप में नियुक्त करती है । 

[सं० एषी 180 13/ 4 / 75-ए सी ] 

चरणजीत ढींगरा , उप सचिव 


New Delhi, the 7th September , 1977 


का आ० 2985. भारत अन्तर्राष्ट्रीय विमानपत्तन प्राधिकरण 
अधिनियम , 1971 ( 1971 का 43 ) की धारा 5 की उपधारा ( 4 ) के 
साथ पठित धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 3 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एसद्वारा सत्काल तथा प्रत्येक के सामने दी गई 
तारीख तक निम्नलिखित को भारत अन्तर्राष्ट्रीय विमानपत्तन प्राधिकरण के 
अंशकालिक सदस्यों के रूप में नियुक्त करती है : - - 

1. श्री के० जी० अप्पूस्वामी, 13-2- 79 तक श्री के० के० उन्नी के 
___ प्रबंध निदेशक , एयर इंडिया 

स्थान पर 
2. श्री एम०सी० सरीन , 7 -12 - 79 तक श्री ए०एच० मेहता के 
प्रबंध निदेशक, 

स्थान पर 
इंडियन एयरलाइन्स 
3. श्री फिलोमन दास , 3 - 3 - 79 तक श्री बादल राय के 
निदेशक , पर्यटन और नागर 

स्थान पर 
विमानन मंत्रालय 

[ मं० ए वी 24012/ 3/ 77 - एए ] 


S. 0 . 2986. --- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 
4 of the Air Corporations Act, 1953 (27 of 1953) , the Cen 
tral Government hereby appoints Shri K . G . Appusamy , 
Managing Director , Air- India , as Director on the Board of 
Indian Airlines with effect from the 25th August , 1977 ( FN) 
and until fusiher orders . 


[ No. AV . 18013 / 4 /75- AC.] 
C. L. DHINGRA, Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TOURISM AND CIVIL AVIATION 


New Delhi 31st August, 1977 
S . O . 2985. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub 
Section ( 3 ) of Section 3 read with Sub-section ( 4 ) of Section 5 
of the International Airports Authority Act, 1971 ( 43 of 1971 ) , 
the Central Government hereby appoints the following as 
part time Members of the International Airports Authority of 
India , with immediate effect and upto the date shown against 
each : - - 
1. Shri K . G. upto 13- 2- 79 Vice Shri K . K . Unni 

Appusamy, 
Managing Director , 

Air - India . 
2. Shri M . C . Sarin , upto 7-12- 79 Vice Shri A . H . Mchta 

Managing , Director, 

Indian Airlines. 
3 . Shri Philomen upto 3 - 3 -79 Vice Shri Badal Roy . 

Dos, Director, 
Ministry of 
Tourism and 
Civil Aviation . 

[ No. AV-24012 /3/77 -AA] 


सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय 

नई दिल्ली, 1 मितम्बर, 1977 
का०मा० 2987.- - चलचिन्न अधिनियम , 1952 की धारा 5 ( 1 ) 
और चलचित्र ( सेंसर ) नियमावली, 1958 के नियम 9 के उपनियम ( 1 ) 
के साथ पठित नियम 8 के उप नियम ( 3 ) के द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार ने केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड से परामर्श 
करने के बाव, एसद्वारा निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियों को एक सितम्बर, 1977 
मे 31 अक्तूबर , 1977 तक उक्न बोर्ड के मद्रास सलाहकार पैनल का 
सदस्य फिर से नियुक्त किया है : - - 

1. श्री टी० नीलकंतन 
2. श्रीमती साँढा कैलासम 
3. श्री मोहम्मद युसूफ कोकण 
4. श्री एम० गोविंदन 
5. श्रीमती सी० एल० मीनाक्षी अम्मा 
6. श्री पी०वी० पलपतेश्वर राव 
7. श्री पी० के ० रामलिगम 
8 श्री जी० बरवापा 
9. श्रीमती पार० सुवर्ण 
10. श्रीमती पी०वी० भागीरथी 
11. श्रीमती बर्था लोगो 


3450 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977 /ASVINA 2 , 1899 


[ PART II - SEC. 3(ii) ] 


- 


- 


- 


12. श्रीमती इन्दिरा डी० कोठारी 
13. श्रीमती मालती चन्दुर 
14. श्री सी० पार० शर्मा 
15. श्रीमती राजी रंगचारी 
15. श्रीमती पपिनी प्रचुता मैनन 
17. खा० एम० विजयलक्ष्मी 
18. श्रीमती लीला पार्थसारथी 
19. कुमारी पी० शान्ताबाई 
20. श्रीमती एम० लीलावती 
21. श्रीमती रोहिणी कृष्णाचन्द्र 
22. डा० (कुमारी ) सी० एम० लीलावती 
23. श्रीमती हेमलता भजनेयुलु 
24 श्रीमती सारा सैयद युसूफ 
25. श्रीमती जी० दूणे 
26. श्रीमती पद्यमा सदानन्दम 

[ फा० सं० 11/ 3/ 76 - एफ०सी० ] 


कामा० 2988 . -- चलचिन अधिनियम, 1952 की धारा 5( 1 ) 
पौर चलचित्र ( सैंसर ) नियमावली 1958 के नियम 9 के उपनियम ( 1 ) 
के साथ पठित नियम 8 के उप-मियम ( 3 ) के द्वारा प्रवत्त अधिकारों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार ने केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड से 
परामर्श करने के बाद एक्त्वारा निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियों की एक सितम्बर , 
1977 से 31 अक्तूबर , 1977 तक उमस बोर्ड के कलकत्ता सलाहकार 
पैनल का सदस्य फिर से नियुक्त किया है : - - 

1. श्रीमती ऊमा सनिबीस 
2. श्री सैलन मुफर्जी 
3. श्रीमती मयू सईद अय्यूब 
4. श्रीमती काजल सेनगुप्त 
5. श्रीमती शैव्या दत्त 
6. श्रीमती प्राशा पूर्नादेवी 
7. श्री सुजीत के० चक्रवर्ती 
8 . श्री पार० पी० गुप्त 
9. श्री अनंत महापात्र 
10. श्रीमती ऊषा खा 
11. श्री रनेन अयन बत 
12. श्रीमती जयश्री सेन : 
13. श्रीमती मीनाक्षी ममु 

[ फा० सं० 11/ 3/ 76 -एफसी ] 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 


New Delhi , the 1st September , 1977 


S. O . 2987. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 
5 ( 1 ) of the Cinematograph Acts 1952 and Sub -rule ( 3) of 
Rule 8 read with Sub - rule ( 1) of Rule 9 of the Cinemalo 
graph ( Censorship ) Rules, 1958, the Central Government 
hereby reappoints the following persons after consultation 
with the Central Board of Film Censors as Members of the 
Advisory Panel of the said Board at Madras with effect from 
1st September , 1977 upto 31st October, 1977 ; - 


6 . 0 . 2988 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 
5 ( 1 ) of the Cinematograph Act , 1952 and sub-rule ( 3 ) of Rule 
8 read with Sub - rule ( 1 ) of Rule 9 of the Cinematograph 
( Censorship ) Rules, 1958 , the Central Government hereby 
reuppoints the following re sons after consultation with the 
Central Board of Film Cens irs, as Members of the Advisory 
Panel of the said Board at Calcutta with cffect from 1st Sep 
tember , 1977 10 31st October , 1977 : -... 

1. Smt. Uma Sabanabis. 
2 . Shri Sailen Mookerji. 
3 . Smt . Abu Sayeed Ayyub. 
4 . Smt. Kajal Sen Gupta . 
5 . Smt. Shaibya Dutt . 
6. Smt. Asha Purna Debi . 
7. Shri Sujit K , Chakrabarti 
8. Shri R. P. Gupta . 
9 . Shri Anant Mahapatra . 
10 . Smt. Usha Khan . 
11 . Shri Ranen Ayan Dutta. 
12. Smt. Jayasree Scn. 
13 . Smt. Minakshi Basu . 

[ F. No. 11 / 3 / 76 - FC ] 


1. Shri T . Neelakanthan , 
2. Smt. Soundra Kailasam. 
3 . Shri Mohd. Yousuf Kokan. 
4 . Shri M . Govindan . 
5 . Smt. C . L . Meenakshi Amma . 
6 . Shri P. V . Chalapatheswara Rao . 
7 . Shri P . K . Ramalingam. 
8. Shri G. Varadappa . 
9 . Smt. R. Suvarna . 
10 . Smt. P . V . Bhagirathi, 
11. Smt. Borthe Lobo . 
12. Smt. Indira D . Kothari. 
13. Smt. Malati Chandur . 
14. Shri C . R. Sharma. 
15. Smt . Raji Rangachari. 
16 . Smt. Padmini Achutha Menon . 
17. Dr . S . Vijayalakshmi. 
18 . Smt . Leela Parthasarathi . 
19. Kumari P. Shanta Bui. 
20. Smt. M . Leelavathi. 
21 . Smt. Rohini Krishachandra. 
22. Dr . ( Miss ) C . M . Leelavathi. 
23 . Smt. Hemlata Anjaneyulu . 
24 . Smt. Sara Syed Yusufr. 
25 Smt. G. Dubey . 
26. Smt . Padma Sadanandam. 


का०आ० 2989. -- चलचित्र अधिनियम , 1952 की धारा 5 ( 1 ) 
और चलचिन्न ( संसर ) नियमावली 1958 के नियम 9 के उप-नियम ( 1 ) 
के माथ पटित नियम 8 के उप -मियम ( ३ ) द्वारा प्रदान अधिकारों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार में केन्द्रीय फिल्म मैसर बोर्ड से परामर्श करने 
के बाद एतद्धारा निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियों को एक सितम्बर, 1977 से 31 
अक्तूबर , 1977 तक उक्त बोर्ड के बम्बई सलाहकार पैनल का सदस्य फिर 
में नियुक्त किया है : - -- 

1. श्री कमलेश्वर 
2. प्रो० के० जी० प्रवाल 
3. श्री एस० एस० रेगे 
4. प्रो० ( श्रीमती ) विजय गज्याध्यक्ष 
5. श्री डी०जी० नावणी 
6 सा० ( श्रीमती ) चारुशीला बी० गात 
7. श्रीमती कमला तिलक 


F. No. 11-3- 76-] 


भाग II - -माण्तु 3 (ii) ] 


भारत का राजपत्र : सितम्बर 24, 1977/ माश्विन 2, 1899 


3451 


- - 


- - 


. 


. 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


पूर्ति और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय 


8 श्रीमती पपा के० देसाई 
9. 10 ( कुमारी ) लघुमेन एस० सोनेजी 
10. श्रीमती नलिनी एम० सुखदंकर 
11. श्रीमती मणिमेन देसाई 
12. श्रीमती टी०वी० देहेमिमा 
13. श्रीमती लक्ष्मी पाही 
14. श्री एस० डी० शाह 
15. श्री एम . ई . हमनेन 
16. श्री तलाक्षी पाह 
17. श्री राजनारायण सिंह 
18. श्रीमती पार० एल० मोगा 
19. श्री रसिक जे० शाह 
20. श्रीमती मृणालिनी पोकसी 
21. श्रीमती ललिता एन० मापत 
22. श्रीमती एस० गुमरजानी 
23. श्रीमती मालती गिलानी 
24. श्रीमती आशा सेठ 
25. श्रीमती मंजू अग्रवाल 
26. श्री जोए अंसारी 
27. श्रीमती निम्मी कुमार 

[ फा० सं० 11/ 3/ 76 - एफ०मी० ] 
P०बी० नारायणन्, उप मचिय 


( पमर्यास विभाग ) 

मई दिल्ली, 31 अगस्त, 1977 
का आ० 2990 -- विस्थापित व्यक्ति ( प्रतिकर नथा पुनर्वास ) अधिनियम , 
1954 की धारा 34 की उपधारा ( 2 ) द्वारा प्रदस शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए तथा भारत सरकार, पूर्ति और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( पुनर्वास 
विभाग ) की दिनांक 12 जनवरी , 1976 की अधिसूचना संख्या 2( 8 )/ 69 
विशेष सेल / एस०एस - 11 का प्रतिक्रमण करते हुए मैं , ज० चक्रवर्ती, 
मुख्य बन्दोबस्त मायुक्त , महाराष्ट्र सरकार के राजस्व तथा वन विभाग की 
17 अगस्त , 1977 की अधिसूचना संख्या ई०वी०पी० 1077/ 184571 ( 1 )/ 
मार - 9 द्वारा महाराष्ट्र राज्य के लिए नियुक्त बन्दोबस्त पायुक्त श्री पार० 
टी . नडकर्णी को उक्त निगम की धारा 23, 24 तथा 28 वारा या 
उनके अधीम मुझे प्रवत्त शक्तियो, इस शर्त के अधीन सौंपता हूं कि महाराष्ट्र 
राज्य के बन्दोबस्त प्रायुक्त के रूप मे घे महाराष्ट्र राज्य से बाहर स्थित 
मुमावजा पूल की संपतियों के संबंध में प्रेमी किसी भी शक्ति का प्रयोग 
नहीं करेंगे । 


[ सं० 1( 11 )/विशेष सेल / 77 - एस . एम o-II ] 

ज० चक्रवर्ती, मुख्य बन्दोबस्त आयुक्त 


MINISTRY OF SUPPLY AND REHABILITATION 


S . O . 2989. In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 
5 ( 1 ) of the Cinematograph Act . 1952 and Sub -rule ( 3 ) of 
Rule 8 read wi h Sub -rule ( 1 ) of Rule 9 of the Cinematograph 
( Censorship ) Rules , 1958 , the Central Government hereby 
reappoints the followida persons after consultation with the 
Central Board of Film Censors , as members of the Advisory 
Pagel of the said Board at Bombay with offect from 1st Sep 
tember, 1977 upto 31st October, 1977 : 


( Department of Rehabilitation ) 

New Delhi, the 31st August , 1977 
S . O . 2990. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
section ( 2 ) of Section 34 of the Displaced Persons ( Com 
pensation And Rehabilitation) Act , 1954 , and in supersession 
of the notification of the Government of India in tho 
Ministry of Supply and Rehabilitation (Department of Re 
habilitation ) No. 2 ( 8 ) / 69- Spl, Cell / SS II dated 12th January , 
1976, I. J. Chakrabarty , Chief Settlement Commissioner hercby 
delegate to Shri R . T . Nadkarni, Settlement Commisoner for 
Maharashtra Stato appointed by he Government of Maha 
Tashtra under Revonue and Forests Department Notification 
No . EVP. 1077 /184571 (i ) / R , 9 , dated the 17th August , 
1977 , the powers conferred on me by or under Sections 23 , 
24, and 28 of the said Act, subject to the condition that tho 
said Settlement Commissioner for the State of Maharashtra 
shall not exerciso any such powers in relation to the com 
pensation pool properties not situated in Maharashtra State . 

[ No. 1 (11) / Spl . Cell / 77-SS.II ] 
J.CHAKRABARTY, Chief Settlement Commissioner 


1. Shri Kamaleshwar . 
2. Prof . K . G . Aggarwal, 
3 . Shri S . S . Regc. 
4. Prof. (Smt .) Vijaya Rajadhyakshna. 
5. Shri D . G. Nadkarni . 
6 . Dr. (Smt.) Charusheela B. Gupta . 
7 . Sınt, Kamala Tilak , 
8. Smt. Padma K . Desal . 
9 . Dr. ( Miss ) Labuben S . Soneji . 
10. Smt. Nalini S. Sukthankar. 
11, Smt. Meniben Desai. 
12. Smt. T . V . Dehelia. 
13 . Smt. Laxmi Wahi. 
14. Shri S . D . Shah . 
15. Shri S. E. Hassnain . 
16 . Shri Talukshi Shah . 
17. Shri Rainarain Singh. 
18 . Smt. R . S. Boga. 
19. Shri Rasik J . Shah. 
20 . Smt. Mrinalini Choksi. 
21. Smt, Lalita N . Bapal. 
22. Smt. S. Gulrajani . 
23. Smt. Malati Gllapi. 
24. Smt. Asha Sheth . 
25 . Snit, Manju Aggarwal. 
26 . Shri Zoe Ansari. 
27. Smt. Nimmi Kumar. 

[ F. No . 11 / 3 / 76- FC ] 


नई दिल्ली, 7 मितम्बर, 1977 
का आ० 2991 - -विस्थापित व्यक्ति ( प्रतिकर तथा पुनमि ) 
अधिनियम , 1954 की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( i ) द्वारा प्रदत शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करत हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार इसके द्वारा पुनर्वास विभाग के सेटलमेंट 
( विंग में सहायक पन्दोबस्त आयुक्त , श्री एम० पी० मिश्र , को सहायक बन्यो 
बस्त आयुक्त के रूप मे सौंपे गये अपने कार्यों के अलावा उक्त अधिनियम 
वारा या उसके अधीन बयोवस्त मायुक्त को सौंपे गए कार्यों को 
निष्पादित करने के लिए, सत्काल प्रभाव से , बंदोबस्त आयुक्त के रूप में 
नियुक्त करती है । 

[ सं० 1 ( 20 )/ 77/विशेष सेल/ एस०एस० - II] 

दीनानाथ पसीजा, संयुक्त निदेशक 
New Delhi , the 7th September, 1977 
S. O . 2991. - In exorcise of the powers conferred by Sub 
Section ( 1) of Section 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Com 
pensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954, the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints , with immediate effect, Shri M . P. 


A. V . NARAYANAN, Dy. Secy. 


3452 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 1977/ASVINA 2 , 1899 


PART II — Sec. 361) 


Mishra , Assistant Settlement Commissioner in the Settle 
mont Wing of the Department of Rehabilitation as Settle 
mont Commissioner for the purpose of performing in 
addition to his own duties as Assistant Settlement Com 
missioner the functions assigned to a Settlement Com 
missioner by or under the said Act. 

[No. 1 ( 20 ) / Spl. Coll./77 -SS .II] 

D . N . ASIJA , It. Director. 


CENTRAL INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , JAIPUR 

Case No. C .LT, 3 of 1975 , 
REFERFNCE : 
Government of India Ministry of Labour Notification 

No . 1.-41012 /7 / 74 -1.RIID . 2 ( B ) dated 16 - 175 
Published in Part II Sec . 3 Sub - Sec , (ii) of the 

Gazette of India , 
Shri Bhanwar Lal son of Shri Mohan Lal . . . Applicant. 

Veislis 
The Divisional Personnel Officer , Northern Railway. 
Bikaner 

... Opposi e Party 
APPEARANCES 

For the Workman /Union .--- Shri Bharat Singh . 
For the Management. -- Shri Satya Pal Bhati. 
Date of Award . — 10 - 8 -77 . 


श्रम मंत्रालय 
of forret, 7 factae, 1977 


AWARD 


का०मा० 2992 - - केन्द्रीय सरकार ने , यह समाधान हो जाने पर फि 
लोकहित मे ऐसा करना अपेक्षित था , मौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम, 1947 
( 1947 FT 14 ) on art 2 # 99 996 ( vi ) 
के परन्सुक के उपबन्धों के अनुसरण में , भारत सरकार के श्रम मंत्रालय 
it ufugal Ho To HTO 968 ru 7 hit, 1977 atat fara 
FH JUTT HT 587 afuft44 # samt et ferns, 17 HTT, 1977 
से छ: मास की कालावधि के लिए लोक उपयोगी मेवा घोषित किया गया 
T ; 

मौर केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि उक्त कालावधि को आगे छ: 
मास की कालावधि के लिए बढ़ाया जाना लोकहित में अपेक्षित है ; 

a :, , slutfieri forata ufaftuh, 1947 ( 1947 4T 14 ) 
की धारा 2 के खण्ड ( ख ) के उपखण्ड ( vi ) के परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त उद्योगों को उक्त अधिनियम के 
sutart if fay 17 farcture, 1977 # Art BS ATER Marfan 
के लिए लोक उपयोगी सेवा घोषित करती है । 

[HO TH0 - 11017/ 3/77-11-I ( ) ] 
एल० के० नारायणन, उस्म अधिकारी 


By its notification cited above , the Government of India 
has referred the following Industrial Dispute to this Tribunal 
for adjudication - 
" Whether the Assistant Engincer, Northern Railway 

Bikaner , was competent and justified in terminating 
the services of Shri Bhanwar Lal son of Shri Mohan 
Lall , a casual labourer (Fitier ) under the Inspector 
of works, Northern Railway, Bikaner , by giving the 
workman a one month s notice of termination dated 
8 - 12 - 1977 if not, what relief the workman is en 
titled to ? " 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 


New Delhi, the 7th September, 1977 


8 . 0 . 2992. Whereas the Central Government being satisfied 
that the public interest so required had declared by a noti 
fication made in pursuance of the proviso to sub -clause (vi) 
of clause (n ) of section (2 ) of the industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 ( 14 of 1947) being the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour No . S . O . 968 dated the 
7th March , 1977 the Zinc Mining Industry to be a public 
utility service for the purpose of the said Act, for a period 
of six months from tho 17th March , 1977. 


Tho dispute is between the management of the Northern 
Railway Bikaner and its cmployee Shri Bhanwarlal herein 
after to be referred as the workman. The case of the work 
man espoused by the Railway Caşual Labour Union , Bikaner , 
u duly registered trade union, through its General Secretary . 
It will be hereinafter referred to as the union 

The case delineated by the union is that the workman Shri 
Bhanwarlal was appointed as a casual labourer (Fitter ) in the 
Engineering Workshop by the Inspector of Works on 21- 8 -68 , 
Since then he was working there. On 8 - 12 -73 , he was served 
with a notice dated 1 - 12 - 73 by the Assistant Engineer Bikaner 
in which he was informed that his services would stand 
terminated on the expiry of one month . The workman sub 
mitted an application before the Divisional Personnel Officer 
raising objections therein against the said notice and pro 
posod termination of his services. The Divisional Personnel 
Officer in the employer under the Central Industrial Rules . He 
rcaped no success there . The workman then approached the 
union and the union raised an Industrial Dispute before the 
Divisional Personnel Officer . The dispute , however, remained 
unresolved . The union took the matter before the Assistant 
Labour Commissioner ( Cen ral ) Ajmer for conciliation , but 
there also no conciliation could take place due to the non 
cooperative attitude of the railway administration . The Con 
ciliation Officer submitted his failure report on 18 -2 -74 be 
fore the Central Government, that resulted in the present 
reference . It was alleged that the notice carrying the pro 
posed termination of the workman s services was bad , illegal, 
void and unjustifiod . It amounted to unfair labour practice. 
Tho reliefs claimed aro : - - 


And whereas the Central Goverment is if the opinion that 
the public interest requires the cxlension of the said period 
by a further period for six months, 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the 
proviso to sub - clause ( vi) of clause (n ) of section 2 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Go 
yernment hereby declares the said industry to be a public 
utility service for the purposes of the said Act for a further 
period of six months from the 17th September , 1977 . 

[No. S. 1107 /3 / 77 /DIA ] 
L . K . NARAYANAN , Desk Officer . 


9 . 0 . 2993 , -- In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Contral Government 
horoby publishes the following award of the Central Industrial 
Tribunal, Jaipur in the industrial dispute between the em 
ployers in relation to the Divisional Personnel Officer. Nor 
thern Railway, Bikaner and their workmen , which was 
received by the Central Government on the 29th August, 
1977. 


( 1) The notice dated 1- 12- 73 be adjudged Illegal, unlus 

tified and null and void and be cancelled , and 
( 2 ) Compensation in the amount of Rs. 1500 /- be paid 

to the workman by the railway administration . 
The claim was resisted by the railway administration . To 
itg statement of defence the administration admitted that the 
workman wag engaged for the first time on 21- 8 -68 as a 
Fitter in the casual labourer on dally wagos by the Inspector 
of Works. Later on . on 24 -8 - 72 . he was fired in the pay 
scale of Rs. 110 - 180. though again in the cadre of caqua] 
labourer. The workman was subjected to medical examina 
tion . His case WAS covered by category BJ of the Indian 
Railway Establishment Manual for purnose of vision text . 
He was declared unfit for the job in this medical test. As 
such the Assistant Engineer issued a notice on 1 - 12 -73 to the 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


[ 979 II - 3 ( ii ) ] AT TETTE : FATTT 24 , 1977/afva7 2, 1899 

3453 
-- - - - - 

-- -- 
workman stating therein that his services would stund leimni 

instant cuse appointment of the workman was made by ihe 
nated on the expiry of one month , The allegutions of malu 

In pector of Works. The Assistant Engineer was therefore , 
lides or victimization or unfair labour practice were categori 

competent to issue the impugned notice . There was no work 
cally denied. Some objections relating to the conipetency and 

of authority in the Assistant Engincer in issuing the aforesaid 
maintainability of the reference were also raised . 

nolice . 
In view of the allegations and counter allegations of the 

Rc 3 - Whether the workman was medically unfit for the 
parties, the following questions arose for decision : 

pont be Wills appointed ? 
( 1 ) Whether the reference is premature, 

The case put forward by the railway administration is that 
( 2 ) Whether the Assistant Engineer was the proper autho the workman s services were to be terminated as he was oot 
rity and was competent to issue notice of terminating 

found medically fit. It was further contended thut his case 
the workman s services . 

is governed by clause Bl in Annexure V of the India Railway 

Establishment Manual. The union s stand is that the work 
( 3 ) Whether the workman was medically not fit for the 

man is covered by class CI of the aforesaid annexure . He 
post he was appointed . 

was declared madically fit for the post of Fitter of Clause 
(4 ) Whether the workman should be allowed Rs . 1500 

CI. I have taken the respective contentions into considera 
as compensation , and 

tion . 
(5 ) Relief to follow , 

There is no dispute that the workman Shri Bhanwarlal was 

appointed as Fitter in Casual Labourer in the Engineering 
I shall take up these questions at scriatim below :- - 

Workshop Artisan Staff. The employees of this staff fell 

within clause l of the annexure for the purposes of vision 
Re 1 — Whether the reference is premature . 

te -t. There is again no dispute between the partics that the 
It was contended on behalf of the employer that only a 

workman was declared medically fit as a Fitter cmployed in 
notice was served on the workman about the proposed termi 

The Engincering Workshop Artisan Staff. There was a cor 
nation of services. The services were not terminated under 

respondence in this respect between the Divisional Personnel 
it and the workman is still in continuous service since then . 

Officer , the Assistant Engineer and the Medical Department. 
Il wils argued that in the circumstances it cannot he said 

There is a letter addressed by the Assistant Engineer to the 
that there was an industrial dispute. The reference is , there 

Inspector of Works by which the latter was advised to get 
fore , premature and deserved to be rejected . On the other 

the workman medically examined in the class CI for the 
hund it was argued on behalf of the union that ihc notice 

post of Fitter. This letter is dated 2 - 1 - 1973. In pursuanco 
in dispute was sufficient to create an approhension in the to this letter the medical examination of the workman was 
niind or the workman that he was to lose the services on a 

conducted on 8 - 1 - 73. In this examination he WAS 
particular date. As such an industrial dispute existed or at declared fit for the post of Fitter Class CI . These letters 
any rate the Industrial Dispute was apprehended . I have have been submitted by the railway administration itself. For 
taken the respective contentions into consideration . 

the reasons discussed above, it can be said without any hesita 

tion that the workman was medically fit for the post of Fitter 
Section 10 ( 1 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 herein 

Class C on which he was appointed . He was not appointed 
after to be referred as the Act says that a reference can be 

a Fitter for class BI. Therefore the test laid down for Fittes 
made by the appropriate Government when any Industrial 

Clause BI could not be applied to the workman . 
Dispute exists or is apprehended . It is not at all necessary 
that the dispute in question must have matured into an in 

The workman was medically fit for the post he was appoint 
dustrial dispute . It is sufficient that there is an apprehension 

ed . 
of an industrial dispute . In the instant case in the impugned 
notice , it has been clearly mentioned that the workman s ser 

Re 4 - Whether the workman should be allowed Rs. 1500 
vices would stand terminated with effect from the date of as compensation . 
expiry of one month from the service of notice on him . 
This notice according to the union is invalid and illegal. These 

Isce no logic or reason in the workman s demand for com 
facts are sufficient to hold that not only an industrial dispute 

pensation . He has led no evidence to show how and on 
was apprehended but it really existed . The reference , there 

what grounds a sun of Rs. 1500 should be awarded to him 
fore. cannot be said to be premature. In one way the work 

as compensation . Suffice it to say that he is not entitled 
man s services stood terminated from a particular date . He 

to recover any compensation from the railway administra 
had . therefore , a good cause to approach the union and raise 

tion . 
the dispute . 
The reference is no : premature. 

Re 5 – Relief. 
Re 2 - -Whether the notice was issued by the proper autho 

For the foregoing reasons. I arrive at the following conclu 
uity . 

sions : 

11 ) The impugned notice duted 1 - 12 - 73 is declared invalid , 
It was contended by the union that the Assistant Fngincer 

void , illegal and injustified ; 
was no - the proper authority and was therefore not competent 
10 issue the impugned notice to the workman . 

( 2 ) The workman s service cannot be terminated in pur 
It was argued that the Divisional Personnel Officer is the 

suanco to the aforesaid impugned notice and 
employer for the rurpose of the Act. The notice of the 

( 3 ) The workman is not entitled to recover a sum of 
termination if at all was to be issued by the Northern Rail 

Rs. 1500 as compensation from the Railway Administration . 
way it could he issued only by its Divisional Personnel Officer 
and not by the Assistant Engineer, On behalf of the railway 

I make may award accordingly . 
Administration , it was argued that the unpointment of the 
workman was made by the Inspector of Works. The Assis 

The ward is bmitted to the Central Government for 
ant Engineer is an authority superior to the Inspector of 

publication is required by law . 
Works. The Assistant Engineer WAS . therefore, competent to 
ssue the impugned notice . The contention raised by the 

S . S . BYAS, Presiding Officer 
railway administration cannot be said to be without force, 
It is true that in the industrial disptile (Central Rules, 

[No. L -41012 / 7 /74 -LR . HI/D . II( Bl ] 
1957 ), the Divisional Personnel Officer has been defined as 

HARBANS BAHADWR , Desk Officer 
imployer in respect of casual labourer employed in the railway 
establishment. But this is only for the purpose of the Act 
And to carry ou its scheme into affect. The Act has nothing 
o do with the authority empowered to remove or terminate S . O . 2994, - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
he services of the workman . The powers of removal and ter Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ), the Central Government 
nination vests either in the appointing authority or the disci hereby publishes the following award of the Central Govern 
plinary authority or the authority superior to them . In the ment Industrial Tribunal No. 3 , Dhanbad in the industrial 
80 G . I. /77 - - 7. 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


3454 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977 /ASVINA 2 , 1899 

[PANT JI — SFC . 3 (11 )] 
- - - - - - - - - - 

- - - = = : = : - - - . - . 
dispute between the employers in relation to tho management 

New Delhi, the 9th September, 1977 
of Diamond Phularitand Colllery of Messrs Bharat Coking 

S .O . 2995, - In purşunnce of section 17 of the Indus 
Coal Limited , Post Office Nawugarb . District Dhunbaul and 
their workman . which was recoived by the Central Govern trial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Govern 
ment on the 26th August, 1977 . 

ment hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal No . 3 , Dhunbad , in the 

industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the 
CENTRAL GOVT. INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL - CUM 

manageinent of Nayadanga Colliery of Messrs Coal Mines 
LABOUR COL T NO . 3 , DHANBAD 

Authority Limited , Post Office Nirsachatti, District Dhanbad 

and their workmen , which was received by the Central 
Reference No . 19 of 1976 

Government on the 2nd September , 1977 , 
PARTIES : 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
Employers in relation to the management of Diamond 

TRIBUNAL (NO . 3 ) AT DHANBAD 
Pbularitand Section of Barora Colliery of 1 / 3. 
Bharat Coking Coal Ltd .. P . O . Nawagarh , Dist . 

Reference No. 4 of 1975 
Dhanbad . 

PARTIES : 
AND 

Employers in relation to the management of Nayadanga 
Their workman represented by Colliery Karmachari 

Colliery of Messrs Coal Mines Authority Limited , 
Sangb , Dhanbad. 

Post Office Nirsachætti, District Dhanbad 
APPEARANCES : -- 

AND 
For Employers - Shri B . Joshi, Advocate. 

Their workmen . 
For Workman - None. 

APPEARANCES : 
Dated, Dhanbad , the 19th August, 1977 

On hchalf of the management : Shri T . P . Choudhury , 

Advocate . 
AWARD 

On behalf of the workmen : Shri J. D . Lal, Advocate. 
This is a reference u / s 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 

STATE : Blhar . 
Act, 1947, by the Govt. of India , Ministry of Labour , under 
Order No. L - 20012 / 124 /73 /DIII / A , dated 30 - 3 - 76 . The 

Dhanbad , the 26th August, 1977 
dispute relates to Shri Yogeshwar Prasad, Register Keeper, 
who has been stopped form work by the management of 

AWARD 
Diamond Phularitand Section of Barora Colliery of M /s . 
B . C . C . Ltd ., with effect from 1st February, 73. The schedule 

This is a reference under section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Indus 
of reference is given below : - - 

triu ) Disputes Act, 1947 , by the Government of India , 

Ministry of Labour under order No. L -20012 / 84 /75 /DIII / A 
SCHEDUI E 

dated New Delhi the all. The concerned workman Shri 

Mihir Kumar Mitra was appointed in the Nayadanga Colliery 
" Whether the action of the management of Diamond 

of M / s . Coal Mincs Authority (which at present is Eastern 
Phularitand Section of Barora Colliery of M / s. Coalfields Ltd .). The schedule of reference is as follows : 
B . C . C . Limited . P . O . Nawagarh , Dist. Dhanbad in 
stopping from work of Shri Yogeshwar Prasad , 

SCHEDULE 
Register Keeper with effect from 1st February , 73 
is justified ? If not. to what relief is the workman 

" Whether the action of the management of Nayadanga 
cntitled ? 

Colliery of Messrs Coal Mines Authority Limited , 

Post Office Nirsachatti. District Dhanbad in termi 
2 . In the written statement the management have taken a 

nating the services of Shri Mihir Kumar Mitra , 
plea that M / 8 . B . C . C . Limited was not the employer /owner on 

Compounder, with effect from 17 - 1 - 1975 is justi 
1 - 2 -73 in relation to Diamond Phularitand Colliery Anit no 

licet ? If not. to what relief is the concerned 
liability of any sort for action committed by the omplover / 

workman entitled ? " . 
owner of that collicry prior to 1 - 5 -73 can be attached to M /s . 
B . C . C . Limited, 

2 . It is the common case of the parties that the con 

cerned workman was appointed a compounder temporarily 
3 . A written statement has also heen filed on behalf of the 

for a period of 3 months from 4 - 2 - 1974 to 4 -5 - 1974 and 
workman but the above point taken by the management has 

this period was extended from time to time and lastly it 
not been assailed . 

was extended unto 16 - 1 - 1975. It is also the common case 

of the parties that the concerned workman is an unqualified 
4 . Parties have not entered into evidence and only art 

compounder and even till the date of termination of his 
ments have been heard . 

servcies he did not pass the qualifying test 19 required under 

the Pharmacy Act ( VIIT of 1948 ) . 
5 . The Diamond Phularitand Colliery is a non - coking cool 

3 . Case of Mihir Kumor Mitra is that the action of the 
mine and the management was taken over on 31 - 1- 73 . Sub 

management in terminating bis services is illegal, mala fide 
scquently , it was nationalised on 1- 5 -73. It means that on 
1 - 2 - 73 M / s. B . C . C . Limited was not owner of this colliery and 

and is violative of the terms of his appointment and the 
consequently no liability for action by the previous owner can 

provisions of the certified standing orders. His contention 

is that as per terms of appointment and the provisions of 
he fastened on it . In this connection we may refer to ser . 

the certified standing orders he ought to have been con 
tion 7 of the Coal Mines (Nationalisation ) Act, 1973 which 

firmed after completion of six months probationery period 
Is very specific and absolves the Central Govt. or the Govt . 

satisfactorily . Having worked continuously for about & vear 
company from all prior liabilities which includes wages , 

he become a member of the Coal Mines Provident Fund 
bonus , royalty ctc . That being so . the objection of the Also . 
management prevails and the reference becomes incompetent . 
6 . In the result, it is not open to the Tribunal to look into 

4 . It is contended that no notice as required under the 
the question of the stoppage of work of Shri Yogeshwar 

provisions of the certified standing order applicable to the 
Pragad. Register Keeper with effect from 

colliery was given to him and on the above grounds he is 
1 - 2 -73 and he is 

entitled to reinstatement with back wages . 
cntitled to no relief . 
This is my Award . 

5 . On hehalf of the management it is said that throughout 

his appointment was temporary on casual basis as a quali 
S . R . SINHA , Presiding Officer. 

fied compounder was not available and each time that he 

was reappointed he was asked to qualify himself which he 
(No. L -20012 / 124 /75- 0 MA] could not do. Ultimately , when a passed componder was 


[ TM II - au 3 ( ii ) ] 


HIGT T=147 . FHIRT 24 , 1977 / TV 


2 , 1899 


3455 


could pop huve been employed in that capacity and his very 
initial appointment was illegal. 

14. I, however, find bat he was employed on casual bus . 
as mentioned in his appointment letter for a period of 3 
nionths and in the ineantime he was asked to qualify other 
wise he would be replaced with a qualificd hand at the end 
of that period . The management has explained the cucum 
stance in which his appointment was made and from the 
divernments in the written statement it appears that he was 
reappointed for a particular period from tinre lo time and 
the last appointment was upto 16 - 1 - 75 when a qualified band 
vas available and his services were terminated. 


Hvailable his services were terminated . It is said that being 
it casuul employce no notice was required and his appoint 
inent carne to an end as soon as the extended date expircd . 

6 . The other point that has been raised on behalf of 
the management is that no demand was made by the con 
Lerned workman on the management after his services bad 
been terminated . One Shri Kedar Pandey addressed a letter 
lo the Assistant Labour Commissioner ( C ) Dhanbod , pur 
porting to rise an industrial dispute between the manage . 
ment of Badjnu Sub - Areu und Shri Mihir Kumar Mitra re 
presented by Bihar Collicry Kumgar Union , a copy of which 
wus endorsed by the Asstt. Labour Commissioner ( C ) to 
lliem . This according to the management not a demand 
ruising an industrial dispute with tho managemçnt and 4t 
cordingly the reference is invalid . 

7 . There is a rejoinder on behalf of the workmen sturing 
that a dispute had in fact been raised with the management . 
prior to the laising of thc dispute before the Asstt. Labour 
Commissioner . It is said that in any casc tho reference does 
nol Sutter from any infirmity in view of the decision of 
the Putna High Court. It is further said that having worked 
13 compounder continuously for inore than 240 days temi 
nalion of the workmun s service amounted to retrenchment 
und the provisions of S . 25F of the I. D . Act having not 
been complied with , the retrenchment is illegal und void 
abinitio . 


15 . To me it uppears that there is nothing illegal in the 
Action of the management and he being a purely temporary 
han having been appointed for a particular period big appoin - 
nient automatically came to an end on the expiry of that 
period . He could not have been allowed to continue as he 
hud not qualified himself as a qualified compounder ay pro 
vided under Pharmacy Act. Question arises whether it was 
necessary 10 womply with the provisions of S . 25F of tho 
1. D . Act, 1947. 


8 . There is a rejoinder on behalf of the management as 
well stating therein that Shri Mitra was given fresh appoint 
ments from time to time for a period of 3 months to enable 

im to qualify as a compounder. As he did not pass tho 
tuolitying test, he could not have been confirmed , as con 
irmation in the job of this naturç depends upon obtaining a 
necessary requisite qualification . No notice was necessary 
is his services had to be terminated, firstly , because he could 
not qualify as a compounder and secondly , because a quali 
ied compounder became available . 


16 . A similar case came up before their Lordships of the 
Supremc Court ( State Bank of India vs. N . Sundra Moacy) 
reported in 1976 (32) FLR 197. Mr. Sundra Moncy was 
appointed as cashier , off and on , by the State Bank of Inu , 
between July 4 , 1970 and Novomber , 18 , 1972 . The termo 
of appointment are the following : 
" 1 ) The appointmet is purcly a temporary Onc for a 

period of 9 days but may be terminated earlier with 
out assigning any reason therefor at the Bank s dis 

cTction ; 
(2 ) The employment, unless terminated carlier. will auto 

matically cease at inc expiry of the period , i. c . 

November, 18 , 1972 " . 
17 . Then Lordships considered S . 2SFib ) and S . 2 ( 00 ) of the 
Industrial Disputey Aci. With respect to the former the 
case of the Hospital Mazdoor Sabha reported in ( 1960 ) 2 
SCR 866 was considered and they quoted the following ob 
Servation that " The Section provides that no workman shan 
be retrenched until the condition in question has been satisfied . 
It is difficult to accede to the argument tha ; when the section 
imposes in mendatory terms a condition proccdent , non 
compliance with the suid condition would not render the im 
pugned retrnechment invillid . , . . failure 10 comply with the 
said provision renders the impugned orders invalid and in 
operative " . 


9 . From the l ecord it appears that a dispute had been 
aised before the Assistant Labour Commissioner and I find 
rom the failure report that case of the parties was precisely 
he same before him as it is here . This reference was made 
when he submitted a failure report . 


10 . On behalf of the workman họ has examined himself . 
Vo witness has been examined on behalf of the management. 
Certain papeis were called for on behalf of the workman 
ind they have been produced and they are with respect to 
he appointment of the concerned workman, appointment of 
Shri Nagendra Nath Towari and termination of the services 
of Shri Mitra consequent upon Shri Tewari s joining tho 
appointment. Extruct of the bonus register , extract of form 
3 register and extract of salary sheet concerning Shri 
Mitra have also been produced . 


11 . Shri Mitra has stated his own case and says that he 
ontinued on his post till 16th January , 1975, when his 
ervices were terminated , but no notice was given to him 
or wages in lieu of notice were paid to him . He says 
urther that he did not get any retrenchment compensation , 
le bas proved Ext. W - 1, his representation to the Sub - Area 
Manager under his signature. In cross - examination he adnits 
hat he was aware that a pharmacist certificate is required 
or being appointed as compounder in Bihar. He says 
urther that he was asked by the company to obtain certi 
icate which he could not do und in his placc Shri Nagendra 
Nath Tewari passed compounder was appointed . 

12 . Under Section 42 ( 1 ) of the Pharmacy Act it is said 
hat on or after such date as the State Government may by 
otification in the Official Gazette appoint in this behalf no 
Jerson other han a registered pharmacist shall compound , 
reparc , mix or dispensc any medicine on the prescription of 
| medical practitioner. Under sub -section ( 2 ) it is provided 
hat whoever contravenes the provisions of sub -section ( 1 ) 
hall he punishablc with imprisonment for it erm which may 

tend to six months, or with fine not excceding one thousand 
pees , or with both . 


18. Their Lordships also considered the import of hc ex 
pression " for any reason whatsoever " uccuing in section 
2 ( 00 ) and observed that the expression was very wide and al 
most admitting of no exception . According to them ter 
mina ion of the services of a workman " for any reason what 
soever are the key words, Termination embraces not merely 
act of tcrmination by the employer , but thc fact of termination 
however produced . After considering the facts and law on 
the point their Lordships came to the conclusion that " in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this case, the respon 
dent shall be put back where he left uff, but his new salary 
will be what he would draw were he to be appointed in tho 
Nanie post today de novo. As for benefits , if any, nowing 
froin service he will be ranked below all permanent employees 
in that cadre and will be deemed to be 4 teinporary band 
Lipto now . He will not be allowed to claim any advantagey 
in the matter of seniority or other priority inter se among 
temporary employees on the ground that his retenchment is 
heing declared invalid by this court." 


19 . Facis of the case beforc me are similar . Arpointment 
of the concerned workman was temporury for a mrticular 
period and therefore on the cxpiry of that period his services 

ere terminated without complying with the provisions of 
S . 25F (b ) of the I. D . Act. As per decision of the Supreme 
Court this termination will be invalid and inoperative as it 
being a retrenchment under S . 2100 ) he was not paid retrench 
ment compensation and no notice was given to him and no 
wages in lieu of notice were paid . Therefore , the concerned 
workman is entitled to reinstatement but not on the post 
from which he was retrenched because he i i not a qualificat 
compounder . He will of course be employed coinev heic in 
the colliery on any o het equivelent rost and will start getting 
the salary of that post as if his appointment is de novo . Ho 
will be ranked helow all permanent employees in that callic 


13 . The concerned workman has admitted that in he dis 
ensary he used to have first aid materials like tincher 
oslins , fever and cough mixture , ctc . Being a compounder 
Inner S . 42( 1 ) of the Phurmacy Act which I have just new 
Xtrac ed above it was absolutely necessary for him to obtain 

Pharmacist certificate and that having not hecn done , he 


3456 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977/ASVINA 2 , 1899 


[PART II — SEC . 3( 11 }} 


Wage Board for Coal Mining Industry ? If not, 
to what relief are the said workmen entitled ? 

- - . 

- — 
S .No. Name of the Workman Designation Category 

claimed 


- - - - - - - 


- 


-du 


VI 


VI 


-do 


VI 


-do 


VI 


ind will be deemed to be a temporary hand , As was direc 
ed by the Supreme Court he will not be allowed to claim 
any advantage in the malter of seniority or other priority inter 
se among temporary employecs on the ground that his re 
trenchment is being declared invalid by this court. 

20 . A point has been taken on behalf of the management 
that as no demand was raisçd with the employer before the 
matter came to the Assistant Labour Commissioner who gub 
mitted failure report as per decision of the Supreme Court 
in the case of Sindhu Resettlement Corporation Ltd . vs. 
Industrial Tribunal, Gujarat and other reported in Vol. 7 SCL ) 
792 the reference is invalid . In this connection I may refer 
o Ext. W - 1 it representation submitted by the concerned 
workman to the Sub - Area Manager on 22 - 1 - 1975 . The matter 
was taken upto the Assistant Labour Commissjoner on 5 - 2 - 75 . 
It means that a demand was made on the management prior 
to the representation to the Assistant labour Commissioner . 
In such a circumstance it cannot be said that the case falls 
within the purview of the Supreme Court decision referred to 
above . The reference is very much valid , 

21. Therefore , although as per terms of appointment action 
of the management of Nayadanga Çolliery in terminating the 
services of Shri Mihir Kumar Mitra , Compounder w .e .f . 
17- 1-75 is justified, in view of the decision referred to above , 
he is cntitled to the relief mentioned in the carlier paragraph . 
This is my ward . 

S . R . SINHA , Presiding Officer 

[No. L -20012 /84 /75 -DIII- A ] 
S . O . 2996 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal No. 1, Dhanbad, in the industrial 
dispute between the employers in relation to the management 
of Loyabad Colliery of Messrs Bharat Coking Coal Limited , 
Post Office Bansjora , District Dhanbad and their workmen , 
which was received by the Central Government on the 
31st August, 1977 , 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL - NO . 1 AT DHANBAD 
In the inatter of a reference under section 10 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the 

Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 

Reference No. 38 of 1977 
(Ministry s Order No. L -20012 / 165 /74 / D . II . A , Dt. 

19 -6 - 1975 ) 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the management of Loyabad 

Colliery of Messrs Bharat Çoking Coal Limited , 
Post Office Bansjura , Dist. Dhanbad ; 

AND 
Their Workmon . 
APPEARANCES : 

For the Employer - Shri S. S. Mukherjee, Advocate . 
For the Workmen — None. 


IV 


VI 


VI 


10 


VI 


VI 


1 . Sri Basir Mia . . 

. Electrician 

VI 
2 . Sri Shanker Bhandari 

. -do 

VI 
3 . Sri Sotayan Sarkar . 

-do 
4. Sri A .K . Bhattacharjec 

Elec , Helper 
5 . Sri Jovbahadur Pd . , 

Electrician VI 
6 . Sri Biswanath Bancricc 
7 . Sri Sultan Ahmed 

-do 
8 . Sri Chitranjan Ghosh . 

-do 

VI 
9 . Sri Yakub Mia . 
JO . Sri Jagarnath Ghosh . . 

-do 

VI 
11 . Sri BimalMajumdar . 

- do 

VI 
12. Sri Dayamoy Mukherjec 

-do 
13. Sri Kartic Bose . . 
14. Sri Billeswar Dusad . 

-do 
15. Sri Suraj Kant Roy 

-do 
16 . Sri S . K , Sengupta 

-do 

VI 
17 . Sri Sudique Mia 

Elec . Helper V 
18 . Sri Yusuf Ansari 

-do 
19 . Sri Suresh Singh 

-do 

IV 
20 . Sri Anandu Chatterjec 

Electrician TV 
21 . Sri Krishna Prasad , 

-do 
22. Sri Abinath Mandal , 

. - do 
23. Sri Baijnath Dubcy . 

- do 
24 . Sri Kartic Prasad . 

Mach . Fitter 
25. Sri Bisu Mahato 

-do 
26 . Sri Sali Mohamed 

-do 
27 . Sri Anwar Mia . 

-do 

VI 
28 . Sri Mohamad Mia 
19. Sri Sabdul Miil 

-do 

VI 
30 . Sri Kishun Pasi . 

- do 
31 . Sri S . Naruyan , 
32 . Sri Mobarak Mia 

VI 
33 . Sri Abdul Rahim 

-do 
34 . Sri Anurod Pandey 
35 . Sri Anand Singh 
36 . Sri Sibupada Banerjoc . 
37 , Sri Ganesh Bouri 
38 . Sri Akbar Mia . . 
39. Sri Ismail Min . 

VI 
10 . Sri Jabbar Mia . 

VI 
41. Sri Mohamad Hanib 

VI 
42. Sri Ibrahim Mia 
43. Sri Onab Mia , . 

VI 
44 . Sri Ahuniad Mia . , 
45. Sri Sabitali Mia . . 

- do 
46 . Sri Rampathi Yadav . 
47. Şri Fazal Miu 

-do 
48 . Sri Adoward Kabhub . 

- do 
49 . Sri Abdul Rahaman , . 

- do 

VI " 
. - -- - - - - - 

- -- - - - 
2. The same was received by transfer from Tribunal No . 2 
in this Tribunal on March 22, 1977 vide Government of India , 
Ministry of Labour , Order No. S - 11025 (1 ) /77-(1)- D . I V ( B ) 
dated 22 - 2 - 1977 . 

3. The General Secretary , Colliery Engioeering Workers 
Association , alleged in his written statement that the previous 
owner of the Loyabad Colliery , before nationalisation , and 
the present owners , namely , B . C . C . L ., after nationalisation, 
have given lower categories to the fortynine workmen al. 
though they are entitled to higher categories; that the cate 
gorisation deserved by them is specified against their indivi 
dual namçs in the Schedule to the reference : that the action 


VI 


-do 


VI 


-do 


VL 


ir 


VI 


-do. 


VI 


do 


VI 


VI 


-de 


-do 


V 


-do 


- do 


VI 


VI 


INDUSTRY : Coal 

STATE : Bihar 
Dhanbad , the 24th August, 1977 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


AWARD 


The Central Government, in exercise of the powes CD 
ferred hy clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of ection 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act referred the following dispute for 
adjudication to the Centrul Government Industrial Tribunal 
No . 2 , Dhanbad by its Order No . 1 - 20012 , 165 / 74 - D . JILA, 
dated the 19th June , 1975 , namely 


" Is the managernent of Loyabad Colliery of Meyes 

Bharat Coking Coal Limited , Post Office Bunsjona , 
District Dhanbad , justificd in not placing the follow . 
ing workmen in the category specified against cach 
nanc in accordance with the Report of the Central 


[PTT 11 - 3 (ii) ] HTV 

3457 
| 73149 : FAART 24 , 1977/37| fvant 2, 1899 

- = 
of the previous owner , as also of the B . C . C . L ., in giving a 

8 . It has been suid above that none of the workmen is 
particular category to one and another category 10 Another a workman in the workshop of the colliery. The Electricians 
is based on arbitrary pick and choose and is not based on at serial nos. 1, 3 , 5, 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 and 
any reaşonablc or scientific foundation , and hence thc Tri 16 have claimed Category Vi. The basic wages of a Cute 
bunal should interfere and give thçm the categories claimed gory VI workman are Rs. 17 . 70 per day with an increment 
by them 

of 73 paise per year and the maximum is Rs. 25 which is 
reached in a span of ten years. This is cxclusive of fixed 

D . A ., V . D . A . and Altendance Bonus. It is an electrician in 
4 , The B . C . C .L . has , on the other hand , pleaded that 

a Workshop alone who is entitled to Categoiy Vi. See serial 
categorisation , like promotion , arc purely managerial func 

No, 4 Category VI - Page 50 and Serial No. 12 – Category 
tions and the exercise of powers regarding these functions 

V1 – Page 50 of Volume II of the Report of the Central 
should not be interfered with unless the exercise is proved 

Wago Board for the Coal Mining Industry . That being so , 
to be malafide or vindictive or smacking of unfair labour 

none of the electricians can either be promoted to Category 
practice , and that the categorisation was done by the pre 

VI or re - categoriscd from their existing categories into Cate 
vious owner, and on its review , the B . C . C . L . has promoted 

gory VI. Shankar Bhandari al serial no . 2 in the schedule 
some to higher categories where their cases were descrving 

has already been promoted to Category VI in the Workshop . 
but has not done so in the case of a large number of them 

The electricians at serial 106 . 1 , 3 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 and 9 are in 
because they are not cntitled to promotion to a higher cate 
gory on the basis of their work , efficiency , character per 

Category V and the evidence shows that this category is the 

Catogory . The electricians at serial nos. 9 , 11 , 12 , 13, 14 , 
formance etc . 

15, 16 , 17 , and 18 are in Category IV and again the cvicence 

shows that their categories are also proper. The electricians 
5 . The General Secretary , Colliery Engineering Workers 

at serial nos. 4 and 23 were electric apprentices and drawing 
Association , did not put in appearance on May 21, 1977 but 

a salary of Rs. 100 per month in 1973 and now they have 
nevertheless he was informed that the case would be takçn 

been categorised in Category II with a salary of Rs. 10 .40 
lip next on June 18 , 1977. He did not put in appearance 

per day with an increment of 26 paise per year and with a 
even on that date and another registered notice was sent 

maximum of Rs. 13 per day . The electricians at serial 1709 . 
to him that tho case would thereafter be taken up on August 

19 and 20 were electric helpers in Category II and are still 
16 , 1977 for evidence and argumenta ; but he chose to re Electric Helpers in Category II . The clectrician ut serial 
main absent even on the adjourned date . The result is that no , 22 was in Category I and is continuing in Category 1. 
the adjudication has proceeded ex -parte against the workmen , Serial no . 22 of Category Il deals with an Electric Helper . 
none of whom also cared to put in appearance . 

A Category IV electrician is mentioned at serial no . 23. – 

Category IV – Page 48 . They are clectricians who are in 
6 . The B . C . C . L . examined Krishna Mohan MW - 1, the 

Category IV and who were recommended to be placed in 
Personnel Officer of the Loyabad Colliery . He has deposed 

the same category by the Wage Board . An electrician in 
that there is a Workshop in the Colliery but none of the Category V is at serial no . 11 – Page 48 and the Wage Board 
involved workmen is a workman in the Worksbop. These recommended that all electricians in the then Category VI 
fortynine workmen work in the Maintenance Section of the 

should be placed in Category V . Their pay scalc is Rs. 14 . 50 
colliery and not in the Workshop. He has further deposed per day with an increment of 55 paisc per day with a maxi 
that the categorisation is proper, and what the workmen mum of Rs. 20 / - per day. In any industrial establishment, 
really want is promotion to higher categories and not proper there is a system of rationalisation . All hands cannot be 
categorisation because they already stand properly categori placed in the highest category . Some will remain in the 
sed. Ho is a responsible Officer and has no animus against highest and some in a hierarchy of lower categories till they 
any of the workmen . It is well- settled that whether a parti gather sufficient experience and become more ripe and mature 
cular employee should be promoted from one grade to a for promotion . What should be thc strength of each catc 
higher grade, depends not only on the length of service hut gory is a discritionary matter of the management, depending 
also on his efficiency and other qualifications fr the higher upon the nature of the work required and the work load 
post : to which he secks to be promoted ; and , in the etc . The Tribunal cannot interfere in this except in special 
matter of promotion , the intimate knowledge of tho higher circumstances and for that there is no data laid in the in 
authority empowered to promote , has a greater value . In stant case. 
absence of a clear proof of mala fides or discrimination on 
extraneous grounds on the part of the management, it would 
be wholly inappropriate for any outside authority to attempt 

9 . The Mechunical Fitters at serial nos . 24 and 17 were 
to weigh the relevant merits of the individuals who might 

in Category V in 1973 and are continuing in thut category . 
be holding the higher posts and those who are aspiring for 

The mechanical fitter at serial no. 26 was in Category IV 
the same. Moreover , the determination of the size of the 

in 1973 but has now been given Category V . The mechani 
working force is the exclusive right of the management, and 

cul fitters at serial nos. 25, 27 , 28, 29, 30, 31, 34 , 35 , 42 
it is only when it is shown that the management is working 

were either in Category IV or in lower chtegories in 1973 
with less men than necessary . that the workmen can claim 

but they are all now in Category IV . The worknicn at 
that more posts of higher categories be created . Seniority 

serial nos. 32 , 33 , 36 , 37 und 38 were Mechanical Helpers 
Alone is not everything. 

in 1973 in Category II who are now Cutegory IV . The 
The other factors are efficiency , 
educational qualifications. character in 

workman at serial no . 39 was a Fitter Helper in Category 

the nature of res 
nonsibility required in connection with a narticular category. 

[ and is now a Pipe - fitter in Category IV . The workman 
In such matters discretion lies primarily with the management 

at serial no. 40 was Water - Pipe Fitter in Category IV and 
and it follows as a corollary that it is for the management 

continues to be in that category . The workman at serial 
to come to the conclusion as to whether a person is suitable 

no . 41 was & Pump Khalasi in Category UJ and is now a 
for being appointed to a particular post. 

Mechanical Filler in Cutegory IV . The same is the case with 

The above princi 
ples regulating promotion cqually apply to categorisation or 

the workman at serial no. 43. The workman at serial no . 
re - categorisation . 

48 was a Tyndal in Category IV and is now a Mechanical 
The two are more or less in pari materia , 

Fitter in Category IV . The workman at serial no . 44 is 

dead . The workman at serial no . 45 was mechanical helper 
7 . Keeping in view the abovc principles it should he ob 
vious that whether we call it a case of promotion from 

in Category IT and has now been promoted to Category IV . 

1 
lower category to a higher category , as alleged by the mana 

The workman at serial no . 46 was a mechanical helder in 

Cutegory I and has now been promoted to Category II. The 
gement or rc - categoration from a lower category to il proper 
category as contended hv the workmen , it is nrimarily 

workman at serial no . 49 was a fitter in Category IV and is 

a 
managerial function . 

still a fitter in Category IV . The above facts will appear 
The management has before it the from Ext. M - 1 which gives the brief history of each 
necessary data regarding : the servico record ; the character 

one 

of the 49 workmen . None of the workmen has appeared 
rolls ; the work nerformance : the slow or quick turn nves : to give the basis for his clain . 
the lower or higher skill nossessed : the superior or inferior 

The B . C . C .I hus, on the 

other hand , given evidence to show that promotions were 
cfficiency etc . etc . It is in a better position to judge the maite . where indicated , and the categorisation of 
question of nromotion or re -categorisation , as the case may 

the re 
he. 

mainder is proper . 
The Tribunnl is hardly the authority to nerform the 
managerial function . unless there is manifest nroof that there 

10 . In my view the claim 
is victimisation 

of the workmen is unjustified . 
there is unfair lobour nrctic ; there 
malufides; there is want of honafides ; there is nenotism : huic 

is 

11. My oward is that the management of Lovabari Colliery 
is favouritism or the kindred . There is no such case hororo is iustified in not placing the workmen in the verious Cate 
me, 

gories claimed by them . This docs not apply to Shankar 


(PART [ I - SEC . 3(ii)] . 
3458 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1971 /ASVINA 2 , 1899 

- - - - 

4 . The case of Chhota Rahman Mia is that he was a 
Bhandari who has already been given the category claimed 

miner in East Basuria Colliery since the year 1962; that he 
by him ; and no decision is given in the case of Ahmed Mja 

had an unblemishod record of service ; that a charge -sheet 
who is dead . 

Annexure A was served on him on April 21 , 1970 for 
K . B . SRIVASTAVA , Presiding Oflicer commission of mis - conducts under clauses 10 ( h ) 18 ( i) of 

the certified Standing Orders; that the gist of the charge was 
[No. L -20012 / 165 / 74 - D . III A ] that he hid absented himself from duty without permission 

during the period April 13 , 1970 to April 20 , 1970 ; that 
he hud conspired with others to get himself murhed present 

on duty during the period April 13 , 1970 to April 16 , 1970 
Delhi, the 14th September, 1977 

and that in this manner he had committed the two mis 

conducts aforesaid ; that he submitted it reply denying the 
S . O . 2997. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 

allegations but ihmitted that he was absent from duty on 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 

two dates only , namely , April 17 , 1970 und April 18 , 1970 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Gov 

and that also on account of sudden illness ; that a domestic 
ernment Industrial Tribunal No. 1, Dhanbad in the industrial 

enquiry was held and he was dismissed from scrvico on July 
dispute between the employers in relation to the management 4 , 1970 ; that his dismissal was illegal and unjustified be 
of East Busuria Colliery , Post Ofice Bansjora , District Dhan 

cause ( a ) the domestic enquiry was held in violation of the 
bad and their workmen , which was reccived by the Central 

principles of natural justicc inasmuchas he was nct allowed 
Government on the 27th August, 1977 . 

on opportunity to examine his witnesses in delencc, ( b ) the 

findings recorded were perverse and against the weight of 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

evidence on the record , ( c ) the order of dismissal was not 
TRIBUNAL NO . 1 , DHANBAD 

approved by the owner , or the agent or the mining engineer 

of the mine , ( d ) his unblenished record of service was 
In the matter of a reference under section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) 

not taken into consideration , ( c ) absence without leave 
of the industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 

for a period less than 10 days is not a mis- conduct , ( f ) 

there was no evidence of conspiracy and ( g ) in any case , 
Reference No. 47 of 1977 

the punishment of dismissal was wholly disproportionate to 
Ministry s Order No. L - 20025 / 17 /75 -D . III. A , Dt. 

the gravity of the charge . 
11 - 8 -1975 ) . 

5 . Notice was issued to the East Basuriya Colliery Com . 
PARTIES : 

pany Private Limited but the company did not put in appea 
Employers in relation to thc managmcent of Fast Bi rance and the matter hus proceeded ex -purte aguinst it. 

Suria Colliery , Post Office Bunsjorn , District Dhan 
bad , 

6 . The claim of the workman hus been resisted by the 
AND 

B . C .C . L . on the grounds that the dismissal took place prior 

both to the date of taking over of management and vest 
Their Workmen . 

ment of the colliery in the Central Government and since 

there is no relationship of employer and employec bct 
APPEARANCES ; 

ween the Government or the Government company and the 
For the Employers - Shri T . P . Chowdhury, Advocatt , 

workmall , the Governnient company, namely , the B . C . C .C . 

is not liable under sections 7 and 28 of the Coal Mipcs (Na 
For thc Worknicn . - Shri J. D . Lull, Secretary Bihar Cur 

tionalisation ) Act, 1973 because it is not the successor-in 
licry Kamgar Union , Dhanbid . 

interest of the quondam owner , that the dismissal took place 

as carly as the year 1970 and the reference was made as lutc 
INDUSTRY : Coal 

STATE : Bihar is the year 1973 and due to this inordinate delay and laches , 

no part of the domestic cnquiry record is availablc and no 
Dhanbad , dated the 22nd August, 1977 

adjudication is possible , 
AWARD 

7 . The schedule to the reference shows that the burden 

to prove that the dismissal was justified, lies fairly and 
The Central Government, in exercise of the powers con squarely on the quondam owner of may be, the present 
frred by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the owner of the minc. It has been stated earlier that the eist 
Industrial Disputes Act referred the following dispute for while owirer has remained absent throughout and has neither 
adjudication to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal filed a written statement nor appeared to prove the justifica 
No. 2 , Dhanbad, by its order No. 1.- 20025 / 17 /75- D . III. A . tion of the dismissal. The B . C . C . L . has also not filed any 
dated the 11th August, 1975, numely , 

documents nor has it adduced any dial evidence . The workman 

has also not produced any evidence, oral or documentary . In 
" Whether the action of the minagement of East Basuria 

the circumstances. therefore , it must be held that the dis 
Colliery , Post Office Bensjora , District Dhanbud , 

missal was unjustified . Besides th : Standing Order is quite 
of The East, Basuria Coitiery Company private Ltd ., 

clear that it is absence for a continuous period of more than 
Netaji Subas Road , Calcutta - 1, tiken over by the 

10 days that constitutes a mis - conduct, but in the instant case , 
Central Government from 17th October, 1971, and the absencc , at the worst, was for 8 days only . I have no 
now under the management of Messrs Bharat Cok hesitution , therefore , in coming to the conclusion that Chhota 
ing Coal Limited , Sijua , Vihor Building , Post Office 

Rahman Mia s dismissal was wholly illegal and unjustified . 
Jhariu , District Dhanbad , in dismissing Shri Ch . 
Rahman Mia , Miner , with effect from the 4th July , 
1970, is justified 

8 . Thc learned counsel for the B . C . C . L . has argued that 
? If not , to what relief is the 
said workman entitle<? ? " 

no uward can be passed against the Government company 
under section 7 of the Coal Mines (Nationalisation ) Act , Sec 

tion 7 reads thus ; 
2 . The same was received by transfer from Tribunal No.. ? 
in this Tribunal on March 22 , 1977 by Government of India , 

" ( 1 ) Every liability of the owner, ingent, manager or manag 
Ministry of Lalxour, Order No. S - 11025 ( 1 ) /77- ) D . IV ( B ) ing contractor of a coal mine , in respect of any period prior 
dated 22nd Febrzary , 1977. 

to the appointed day, shall be the liability of such owser , 

ugent, manager or managing contractor, as the ciisc may be. 
3 . East Basuria Colliery formerly belonged to the last 

and shall bc enforceable against him and not gainst the 
Basuria Collicry Company Private Limited . It was 

Central Government or the Governinent company. 
non - coking coal mine. 

a 
Its management was taken over by 
the Central Government on January 31, 1973 under section 
3 of the Coal Mines ( Taking over of Management ) Ordi 

(2 ) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that 
Nancc , 1973. The ownership vested in the Central Gov 
cinment on May 1 , 1973 under section 3 of the Coal Mincs 

( u ) save as herwisc provided elsсwhere in this Act, no 
(Nationalisation ) Act, 1973 and the ownership was suhec 

Caim for wages , bonus, royalty , rate, rent, taxes , provident 
qucntly transferred to the B . C . C . L . 

fund , nension , gratuity or any other dues in relation to a coal 
mine in respect of any period prior to the appointed day , shall 


- - - - - 


- - 


- 


[ ATT II- U HTTP TFT 

3459 
3 ( ij ) ] 

ATT 24, 1977 /3TfOTTT 2, 1899 

-- - - 
- - - - - - - - - - : - 
- - - 

-- 
- 

- - 
- - -- 

- - . . . - 
: - - : = - = 
- - : 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT LABOUR 
be cnforceable against the Central Governmeot or the Gov 

COURT NO . 1. BOMBAY 
ernment company ; 

Reference No. CGIT - 49 of 1975 
( b ) no award , decree or order of any court, tribunal or 
other authority in relation to any coal mine passed , after the 

Employers in relation to Bombay Port Trust 
ppointed day , but in relation to any mutter, claim or dispute 
which arose before that day, shall be enforceable against the 

AND 
Central Government of the Government company ; 

Their Workmen 
(c ) no liability for the contravention , before the appointed 

APPEARANCES : 
day, of any provisjon of law for the time being in force. shall 

For the Applicant ; Shri K . R . Dengle , Advocate . 
be enforceable against the Central Government or the Govern 
ment company. " Reliance hug also been placed on B . C . C . L . 

For the Opp. Party : Shri R . K . Shetly. Legal Adviser , 
vm . Dhanbud Colliery. 1976 Lab. I. C . 1313 . That casc was 

Bonibay Port Trust. 
under the Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation ) Act, 1972 . Sec 

INDUSTRY : Port & Dock . 

STATE : Maharishira . 
lion 9 of that Act is more or less in pari materia with Sec 
lion 7 of the Act in question , The Patna High Court has 

Bombay , the 9th August, 1977 
held that in the CanC of a workman who was dismissed before 
the appointed day, no award can be rilssed after the appointed 

AWIRD 
day for his reinstatement against the Government company . 
The learned counsel for the workman argued that that deci. 

1. In exercise of powers conferred by sub -section ( d ) of 

section 10 of, the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ), 
sion turned on the interpretation of Section 9 of that Act 

the Central Government has referred the following dispute 
and will not bind this Tribunal in so far as the interpretation 

for adjudication by this Tribunal, 
of Section 7 of the Act in question is concerned . I do not 
think that this argument is correct. The language of the two 

SCHEDULE 
sections is similar, if not indentical, and the object of both 

“ Whether the punishment of dismissal imposed by the 
the sections is the same. It is not possible for me to distinguish 

management of Bombay Port Trust, Bombay on Shri 
the casc, However , as prayed, I am giving the gist of the 

G , G . Landage , "Tally Clerk , Docks Departiment, in 
argument of the learned counsel . His principal argument is 

justified taking all relevant matters into account ? 
that once it is held that the dismissal was unjustified , there 

If not, to what relief is the concerned workman cnti 

lled ? " 
would normally be an order of reinstatement and payment 
of full back wages. If there is reinstatement relrospectively 

2 . Shri G , G . Landge was posted at 16 ID during the day 
from the date of dismissal, the result would be that the work shift of 11th July , 1969 for warehousing cargo . The Shed 
man would be deemed to have continued in service til April 

Suprintendent, Shri N . v . Joshi, directed Shri Landge to 
30 , 1973 just prior to the date on which ownership Vested 

escort a motor lorry to an uncleared warehouse No. IID . The 

allegation was that Shri Landge refused to load corn and empty 
in the Central Government. If that he so , Section 14 would paper bags into the lorry and entered into an argument with 
come into play and B . C . C . I. . will be bound to continue him the Shed Superintendent. In consequence some time was lost 
in the employment. It is not that section 7 can control Sec 

and after unnecessary and Actimonious arguments with the 
tion 14 . Both sections have to be obeyed and in case there 

Shed Superintendent Shri Landge, with great reluctance , escort 

ed the lorry at 4 .00 p .m , from 16 ID to No. 1 uncleared 
is any conflict or seeming conflict, the Tribunal should warehouse and reached there at about 4 .40 p .m . The Labour 
arrive at a harmonious construction so as to make it possible Supervisor of the Warehouse , Shri A , I, Shaikh isked his 
for both sections to be obcyed . It was further argued that if 

Jubourers to unload the package which were in sound condi 
the two sections cut into each other , the latter section 

tion and directed Shri landge to take back the broken ind 

empty package to No . 16 ID . It was alleged that Shri Landge 
should be obeyed rather than the foriner one. As stated carlier, refused to unload the packages which were in your concli 
it is not for a subordinate Tribunal to go behind the verdict tion and took back the lorry to 16 ID . There he threw the 
of the Patna High Court, to which it is subordinate, and I, 

loading sheet on the table of Shri N V . Joshi, he Shed 

Superintendent and showed abuses on him . 
therefore , refrain from expressing any view of my own 

3 . Domestic enquiry was started where Mr, D . J. Collaco 
9 . My award is that the management of the East Basuria 

represented the Management whereas Mr. M . H . Inamdar 
Colliery Company Private Limited was not justified in dis 

represented the Transport & Dock Workers Union which hact 
missing Chhota Rahman Mia with effect from July 4 , 1970 . 

espoused the cause of Shri Landge, Shri Landge during the 
He is entitled to get full back wages from July 4 , 1970 to 

course of enquiry was termed as C .S . E . i.e . Charge Sheeted 
April 30 , 1973 from Messrs East Basuria Colliery Company 

Employee . Details of the incidents will appear from the threc 
Private Limited . He is not cntitled to any relief against the 

charges which were framed against Shri Landge 
B . C . C .L . and since B . C . C . L . cannot be directed to reinstate 
him and since the quondam owner cannot now reinstate him , 

CHARGE NO . 1 
no award for reinstatement is given . He will be only entitled 
to his full back wages from the quondam owner for the 

" The C . S . E . was posted at 16 A . D . on 11- 7 -69 in the 8 .00 
period indicated above . 

8 .m . to 5 p . m . shift for warehousing cargo Iwo trips were 

made in Lorry No. BMS 7287 10 the Uncleared Waiehouse , 
K . B . SRIVASTAVA , Presiding Officer. A . D . with paper bags . For the third trip , the C . S . E . was the 

escort. The lorry was loaded with paper bags and coil bundles 
[No. L -20025 / 17 / 75-DIIIA ] 

at about 2 .45 p . m . As the entire lot of paper bags was to be 
S . H . S . IYER , Desk Cfficer . 

removed , the C .S .E . was asked to load the torn paper bags 
into the said lorry by Mr. N . V . Joshi, Shed Superintendent, 

16 A . D ., but the C . S . F . refusod to load the torn paper bags 
New Delhi, the 7th September, 1977 

into the lorry and wasted time from 2 . 45 p in , to 4 .00 p . m . 
S . O . 2998. In pursuance of section 17 of 

The C . S . E . has thus committed the misconduct of wilful insu 

the Industrial bordination or disobedience of a lawful or reasonable order of 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Govern 

a superior and of an act subversive of discipline. 
ment Industrial Tribunal No . 1 , Bombay in the industrial 
dispute between the employers in relation to the management 

CHARGE NO . 2 
of Bombay Port Trust, Bombay and their workmen which 
was received by the Central Government on Sth September , 

The C S . E . escorted the third trip lorry to No. 1 Uncleared 
1977 . 

Warchouse from 16 A . D . with great reluctance at about 4 . 00 
p .m . The lorry arrived at thc Unclcared Warehouse at about 


- 


-- - 


- - 


- - - - - - 


3460 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ ASVINA 2 , 1899 [Part II- - Sec . 3 ( ii )] 
- - - - - 

- - 
4 .40 p . m . i. c.. at the close of the shift. The lorry contained 

( 9 ) A number of material questions pertinent to the cross 
some broken packages which were empty . The Labour Super 

examination were disallowed by the Enquiry Ollicer. 
visor, Mr. A . I. Shaikh , asked ihe mazdoor s to utiloill the 
packages which were intact and the C . S . E . was asked o tako 

(10 ) The lorry driver of BMS 7287 - 8 maleriul witness 
the broken and empty packages back to 16 A . D . However, the 

was deliberately not examined which caused grcal 
C . S . E . refused to unload the pichages and coil bundles which 

prejudice in defence of the C . S . E , 
were in good condition despite the instructions of he Labour 
Supervisor Mr. A . I. Sheikh , and the Shed Sundt. Mr. G . H . 

( 11 ) Material contradictions in the statements and cvi 
Mulckar . The C . S . E , also fuiled to obtain the departure time of 

dence of the wi nesses have not been considered . 
the lorry from the Uncleared Warchouse and escor cd the lorry 
back to 16 A . D . This conduct of the C .S . E . amounts to wil 

( 12 ) The prosecution witnessey were allowed to introduce 

freely irrelevant and inadmissible material in 
ful insubordination and disobedience , dishonesty in connection 

their 
with Port Trust Work , acting contrary to the procedure appli 

evidence. 
cable to the establishment, and to an act subversive of disci 

( 13 ) The findings of the Enquiry Officer are contrary to be 
plinc. 

evidence on record . 
CHARGE. NO . 3 

( 14) That the punishment awarded to thc C .S . E . is dis 

proportionate to the alleged misconduct and length 
The C . S . E . brought the lorry back from No . 1 Uncleared 

of service has not been considered while prescribing 
Warehouse to 16 A . D . at about 4 . 45 p . m . and started abus 

extreme punishment to the C . S . E . 
ing Mr. Joshi, Shed Supdt., 16 A . D . despite instructions to the 
contrary by Mr. Sarfarazalli, Asstt. Manager . He abused Mr. 

( 15 ) The Enquiry Officer did not appreciate the fact that 
Joshi in the presence of Mr. Marathe, Asst . Shed Sundt., Mr. 

the C .S . E . was acting within the Rules and dirçc 
Lobo, P . W . Clerk , and Mr. D . G . Chawan , B . P . T . Watch 

tions issued by the B .P . T , when he declined to load 
man . Because of the conduct of the C . S . E . - described in 

torn and empty paper bags . 
Charges No. 1 and 2 ahove , the lorry had to be unloaded in 
the sccond shift an about 7 ,05 p. n . The C . S . F . has thus 

( 16 ) That the C . S . E . committed no breach of duty in 
commil ed an act subversive of discipline, will ul slowing 

refusing to load the lorry with torn and empty paper 
down in the performance of work and a serious offence against 

hags as that would have been against rules and direc 
Conduct and Discipline Rules . 

lions of the B . P . T . 


The C .S .E . pleaded not guilty ." 


4 . Shri Landge pleaded not guilty . On the basis of cvidence 
Adduced before him , the cnquiry officer found by his order 
dated 14 - 6 - 1973 Shri londge guilty of the miscounduct of lil 
Wilful insubordination abusing superiors (ii, Disobedience of 
a lawful order of a superior (iii ) Act subversive of discipline 
and wilful slowing down in the performance of work (iv ) 
Dishonesty in connection with Port Trust work and ( v ) Acling 
contrary to the cstablished procedure . 


( 17) That the entire inquiry proceedings were an empty 

formality and depugnant to judicial spirit and princip 

les of natural justice . 
( 18 ) That the inquiry proceedings were conducted in total 

disregard to the principles of natural justice . 
( 19 ) No copies of statements made by the wi nesses before 

cross -examination were furnished to the C . S . E . by the 
Inquiry Officer , 


5 . Shri Landge was called upon to show cause by letter 
dated 6 - 7 -1971. His renly to the show cause was not received 
till 181h of August, 1973 Jespite extensions of the time limit on 
two occasions . Accordingly the Docks Manager dismissed him 
from service with effect from 23rd August, 1973 . 


6 . The Transport and Dock Workers Union (hereinafter 
referred to as the Union ) took the matter to the Assistant 
Labour Commissioner in conciliation . But on submission 
of his failure report, the present Reference has been made. 

7 . The Union , in the statement of claim , has set out the 
following grounds seeking to set aside the order of dis 
missal : 


( 1) That the charges framed ugajnst thc C . S. E . were vague 

and of indefinite expanse . No particulars thereof were 
furnished to the C . S . E . with the result that the 

defence of the C .S . E . was materially impaired . 
( 2 ) That the C . S . E . was undefended and he could not 

participate in the enquiry proceeding for wint of 

knowlcdge of the English language , 
( 3 ) The Enquiry Officer overlooked the faci that the 

story 15 tried to be made out against the C .SE, is 
not corroborrated by any witnesses cxamined before 

him . 
(4 ) That material witnesses in the case have no : been 

examined by the B .P . T . 
( 5 ) The Enquiry Officer relied more on inferences that 

proof of charges allcged against the C .S . E . 
(6 ) The Enquiry Officer should not have conducted the 

Inquiry Proceedings against the C . S . E . in the absence 

of the Union Representative. 
( 7 ) The Enquiry Officer was biased against the C . S . E . and 

passed irrelovent remarks and observations against 

the C . S .E . 
( 8 ) The Enquiry Officer practically shut off the evidence 

of the C . S . E . by disallowing him to cross -examine 
the witnesses on the presumption that the C . S . E . 
WAS arrogant, 


8 . The Bombay Port Trust has filed a statement- cuni- re 
joindcr wherein it is con ended that Shri Landge was dismissed 
from service after holding a full-fledged department enquiry 
into his conduct. By Memo dated 6 -7 - 1973 , Shri Londge was 
called upon to show causc within seven days as to why he 
should not be dismissed from service . At the request of the 
Transport & Dock Workers Union, the time limit for sub 
mission of his explanation was extended upto 29 - 7 - 1973 . Since 
no explanation was forthcoming either from Shri Landge or 
the Union , the latter was informed on 10 - 8 - 1973 that if no 
explanation was received within three days , the proposed 
punishment of dismissal from service would be passed ex 
puste . Neither the Union for Shri Landge yave any reply 
and accordingly the Dismissal Order dated 18 - 8 - 1973 way 
issued , On 20 - 8 -1973 i letter was received from the Union 
requesting in cr- alia , to show leniency and sympathy in deal 
ing with the case and also putting forward certain argumentu 
against the verdict of the Enquiry Officer. The submissions 
made were carefully considered hut it was found that there 
Was on reason to alter the decision already taken by his letter 
dated 8 - 7 - 1974 , Shri Landge appealed to the Chairman to re 
view dismissal order and to reinstate him to duty . But the Chair . 
man rejected the appeal and Shri Landge was informed accord 
ingly . It is the case of the Management that the employce 
was represented hy the representative of the Union during 
the enquiry and he cross- examined all the witnesses except 
Shri Shaikh at the departmental enquiry. The Union represen 
tative declined to attend the enquiry because of some dispute 
between the Union and Shri Landge over non - payment of 
Unions subscription and Shri Landgc himself refused to cross 
examine th¢ witness . There existed sufficient evidence on re 
cord even if evidence of this last witness is cxcluded . The 
various grounds set out hy the Union for setting aside the 
ordler of dismissal have been traversed and denied hy the 
Management. It is stated that the charges Shri Landąc were 
clear and definite and that the statement of allegations compris 
ing of several documents on the basis of which the charges 
were framed was furnished along with the statement of the 
charges to Shri Landge . Of all the elght witnesses examiner , 
seven were cross -examined hy Shri Inamdar, a representative 
of the Union , excent Shri Shaikh . the Labour Supervisor. He 
was not cross - examined due to the absence of the Union Re 
prosentative and Shri Landgc refused to cross -examine him , 
Shri Inamdar. the representative of the Union , had declined 
to attend the concluding stages of the enquiry owing to some 


(NOT UI - - 


T - 3 ( ii ) ] 


ATT HIT T14 : fata 21, 1977/ 

34 2, 1899 


3461 


- 


Sci 


the C .S . E . bocause he was in arrears with his Union Şubscrip 
hing , the C .S . E . dofiantly refused to say if he had paid their 


foc." 


13. I do not think that any of the grounds relied upon on 
behalf of the workman indicates bias of the Enquiry Officer 
against the workman , Nothing was pointed out to show that 
the Enquiry Officer imported his knowledge about the oʻher 
enquiry against Shri Landge into the present one . If he 
kept the two enquries separate and never allowed his mind 
to be inlluenced by what he had found in the previous en 
quiry , no charge of bias can be entertained against the En 
quiry Offices . The Enquiry Officer was also within his 
rights to note down his opinion that he formed about the 
workman during he course of enquiry . He has disclosed 
the reason on account of which he called the hehaviour of 
the workman as impudent anıl defiant. 


dispute which had arisen botween Shri Landge and tho Union 
over non - payment of Union s fees payable by Shri Landge 
Shri Landgc has passed the S . S . C . cxamination and , therefore, 
the pica of lack of knowledge of English language was not 
available to him . Evidence of Shri N . V . Joshi, Shed Sundi.. 
has been corroborated by all the other departmental witnesses 
und then evidence was not demolished in the cross -exami 
nation . If any material winess was not examined by the 
Management, it was for the Union to have produced him . 
The Management denies that the Enquiry Officer was biased 
against Shri Landge rather it was Shri Landge who had be 
baved arrogantly with the Enquiry Officer and had refused to 
answer the questions put to him on the false plea that the 
Union Representative had instructed him tot 10 answer any 
question . Question of shutting off evidence clid not arise and 
that no material question pertinent to the cross -examination 
way disallowed . If the lorry driver was a matcrial witness for 
the defence , the latter could have casily examined him . The 
allegation that material contradictions were not considered 
and prosecution witnesses were allowed to introduce frcely 
irrelevant and inadvisable material evidence and that the 
finding of the Enquiry Officer is contrary to the evidence on 
record have been denied . The punishment also cannot be said 
to be disproportionate since during the couuse of 11 years 
service there had been occasions for imposing the following 
punishment on him : 
(i) By deducting his proportionate wages for deserting 

his post of duty on " no work no pay " basis : 
(ii) He was severely reprimanded by the Docks Manager 

for negligence in discharge of his duties ; 
(ii) In the year 1973, he was reduced in the time scale 

hy two stages for a period of one year. 


Sbri Landge cannot be said to be within ihc rules when 
he declined to load 10rn and empty paper bags since accord 
ing to Shri Ante , the Labour Supervisor at the transit shed , 
necessary instructions had been given to Shri Landge for 
passing remarks on the loading sheet against packages that 
were damaged and as such it was Shri Landge s duty to pass 
the necessary remarks on the loading sheet. Lorry with the 
loaded bags was ready for despatch at 2 .45 p .m ., but delay 
was calised on the pretext of Shri Landge that the lorry Chit 
Book was not available . It was traced by him at 3 .45 p .m . 
from the table drawer . Shri Landge had refused to receive 
a copy of the notes of hearing on 25 - 1 - 1973 and 29 - 1 - 1973 
from the enquiry officer saying that the Union Representative 
had instructed him to not to sign anything in acknowledgement 
of notes of evidence . Thus it was the cmployce himself who 
had refused to accept the notes of evidence when offered liy 
the Enquiry Officer. Other irregularities alleged against the 
Domestic Enquiry have also been denied . 


14 . Extraneous consideration is alleged because the Enquiry 
Officer , in the Order Sheet, has written about the reason of ab 
sence of Shri M . H . I. Inamdar , the representative of the 
Union that was cspousing the couse of the workman , On 
25- 1 -1973 , thc Enquiry Oficer has written that the worker 
and Mr. Inamdar werc absent and he found that this was 
the second adjournment at which Mr. Inamdar was not pre 
sent. Since nothing had been brought to his notice as 10 
why Mr. Inamdar and the workman were not present, the 
Enquiry Officer decided to proceed with the enquiry in their 
: bsence . At that stage , Ms. Collaco , who presented the case 
on behalf of the management, stated that the Union Represen 
tatives were not willing to defend Shri Landge as he had not 
been paid the union fee for two years. On the last occasion 
Shri Landge had asshred Mr. S . R . Kulkarni that he would 
pay the dues within a week s timo. Mr. Collaco had per 
sonally requested the workman to collect the amount from 
his friends as it not exceed Rs. 50 . Mr. Inamdar had also con 
firmed that he was not willing to defend the worker for the 
above reason . It is in this circumstance that the enquiry officer 
decided to proceed in the absence of Mr. Inamdar . At about 
3 . 20 p . m . the worker turned up saying that he had learnt that 
Mr. Inamdar had gone to Court and he did not know if 
inny union representative would come to the enquiry that 
day. In such a circumstance , MI. A I, Shaikh , the Labour 
Supervisor at the uncleared warehouse was examined - in 
chief . The worker did not like 10 cross-examine him since 
he said that Mr, Inamdur had asked him not to do so in his 
absence . The Pnquiry Officer gave him one more opportunity 
und adjourned the case and made it clear that on that date 
the enquiry will be closed . The worker did not tell him 
whether he proposed to give any evidence or not. The enquiry 
was accordingly adjourned to 29- 1 - 1973. On that date, the 
worker was present, but Mr. Inamdar was absent and the 
worker stated that in the absence of Mr. Inamdar he had no 
questions to ask . The Enguiry Officer repeatedly asked the 
worker whether he wished to lead any evidence or to make 
any statement. The worker refused to make statement say 
ing that Shri Inamdar had instructed him not to speak a 
single word . Such being the attitude of the worker the en . 
quiry was closed and the worker did not say anything as 
he had been instructed by Mr. Inamdar . I do not think the 
grounds on which the enquiry was closed can he said to 
imnost any extraneous consideration nor do thcy of infringe 
and principle of natural justice . 


9 . At the hearing for the workman following points were 
urged to show that the domestic enquiry suffered from various 
infirmities : 

1 ) Bins , ( 2 ) Fxtraneous considerations, ( 3 ) Inappreciation 

of the evidence adduced ( 4 ) Lorry Driver 
& Asstt . Manager , who were material 
witness , were not examined ( 5 ) Log 
Book of the lorry not produced (6 ) Finding of the 
Enquiry Officer is perverse and ( 7) Punishment im 

posed in disproportionate. 
10 . I shall take up the points seriatem in the order as 
they have been set out ahove , 


15. The following witnesses of the Transit Shed were exa 
mined at the enquiry : 


(i) N . V . Joshi, Shed Supdı.--- his duty hours were from 

8 2 . m . to 5 pm . 


11 . The cnquiry was conducted by Shri D . A Ferreira . 
On 11- 10 - 1972 Shri I andge was examined and he admitied 
that he had received the Charge Sheet and the accompanying 
papers and pleaded not guilty to the three charges . It seems 
that this Fnquiry Officer had been conducting ano her enquiry 
against Shri landge and he made a note on 11- 10 - 1972 thai 
he will take up the present enquiry after finishing the renort 
in the one that he has already heard . The arguiment is that 
since this officer had already conducted onc cnquiry against 
Shri landge his mind had been biased and he should int 
huve proceediert with this enquiry ; rather he should have re 
turned it , 


(ii) K . S . Mahudik , Shed Şupdı.. 16 A . D . — his duty hours 

were from 5 p . m . onwards . 
( iii) Mr. H . F . Lobo , 1st Grade Clerk . 
(iv ) Mr. B . C . Apte, Labour Supervisor, 16 A . D . 

( v) Mr. E .A . C . Anrade , Surter, Docks Deptt. 
16 . The following witnesses of No. 1 Unclcared Ware 
house were examined at the enquiry : 

( i ) Mr. G . H . Mulokar , Shed Sundt. 
( ii ) Mr. A . I. Shaikh , Labour Supervisor (he was not 

cross- examined ) , 
17 , On behalf of the worker ny uttention was invited to 
evidence of some of the above witnesses and an attempt was 
made to show that evidence of somo witnesses did not receive 
corrohoration and that there were discrepancies and contradic 


12 . Another fact that was brought to my notice was that 
in paragraph 8 of the rorort. the Enquiry Officer has stated 
that during the course of enquiry he found the hehavious 
of Shri Landgn as " one of impudence and defiance . Although 
Mr. Collio had stated that the union would not defend 

80. G [ 77 – 8 


. . 


- - - 


. - - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


[ PART 11 - Sec . 3( ii )] 
3462 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977 /ASVINA 2 , 1899 

- - - - - 

- 

found guilty of wilful insubordination , disobedience of a 
jions in the evidence, N . V . Joshi his stated that on the winy the 

lawful order and other charges which were levelled against 
lorry was detained ly the workman at the Buscle bridge 

hial. As such I do not think that the punishment imposed is 
from about 2 . 30 to 4 . 30 p .m . and that the lorry reiched the 

disproportionate . 
Linclcared warehouse at 4 , 30 pm . and that Mt. Mulehar 
refused to allow the lorry to be unloaded as it had arrived 

24 . The matter can be judged from another point of view . 
late . It is said that there is no corroboration from the cvi 

The kind of approuch that this tribunal should upply in mat 
dence of other witnesses. Even if there he no corroboration 

ters of this kind has been clearly laid down by the Supreme 
of the lorry huving been detained near the bridge it has no 

Court. It was held in the case of Shri Anand Bazar Patrika 
material bcaring to the charges in question . Further evidence 

and its employee ( 1963 II LLJ 429 ) " If the terminution of an 
of Mr. Joshi is that the reason why the work man was re 

indlustrial employee s services has been preceded hy a proper 
fusing to load the bags into the lorry was because the bags 

domestic enquiry which has been held in accordance with the 
were torn . No doubt there were standing instructions not to 

rules of natural justicc and the conclusions rçached at tho 
Accept the damaged , torn or broken rackages, but there shoul ! said enquiry are not rerverse , the tribunal is not entitled to 
have licen no ohjection on the part of the workman since the consider the proprictyor the correctness of the said con 
loading had been done under the instruction of the Assistant clusions. If, on the other hand, in terminating the services 
Manager and that Shri Joshi had himself made remiks on of the employee , the innlgement has acted maliciously or 
the loading sheet showing as to how many bags were torn vindiclively or has been actuated by a desire to punish the 
at that time and had initialled the same. His further evidence omployce for his trade union activities, the tribunal would 
is that the unloading could not have been refused if the be entitled to give adequate protection to the employco by 
Warehouse Shed Superintendent had seen this loading sheet ordering his reinstatement, or directing in his favour the 
And if he had any doubt, he could have made cnquiry from payment of compensation ; but if the enquiry has been pro . 
him on telephone. Comment was made that the lorry driver per and the conduct of the management in dismissing the 
was not examined , nor the Log Book of the lorry produrec . employee is not mala fide , then the tribunal cannot interfere 
Record being had to the kind of charges that with the conclusions of the cnquiry officer, or with the orders 
were being investigated omission to examine the lorry driver passed by the management after accepting the said conclu 
and non - production of the T og Book do not appear to be of 

sions ." It will be noticed that there is nothing to show tha 
any importance . 

in the present case the Management acted naliciously Oj 

vindictively or was actuated by a desire to punish the work 
18 . Evidence of Mr. H . F . Lobo was referred to show 

man for any Trade Union Activity . The conduct of the 
that it does not Apeak about the abuses said to have made 

Management also cannot he said to be mala fide. 
by the workman to Mr. Joshi Mr. Lobo, however , is quite 

25. In Inlian Iron & Steel Co . Ltd . and their workmen 
clear that there was shouting at each other and that he could ( 1958 [ LLJ 260 ) , it was held that the tribunal will interfere 
not follow what they were talking sincc their talks were in " (i) when there is a want of good faith , (ii) when there is 
Marathi. He, however , is clcared that considering the victimization or unfair labour practice , ( iii ) when the mana 
position of the Shed Superintendent, he felt that the work gement has been guilty of a basic crror or violation of a 
man was clearly disrespectful. 

principle of natural justice and ( iv ) when on the materials 

the finding is completely baseless or perverse .” The present 
19 . Evidence of Mr. G . H . Mulekar is that the lorry 

is not such a case . Tf 
arrived at 4 . 40 p .m . and ordinarily the delivery and receive 

the last witness on behalf of the 

Management was not cross- examined , the fault cannot be 
ing work is stopped at 4 , 30 p .m ., but since this was a B . P . T . laid on the shoulder of the Management. Even if that wit 
Lorty , he had to off -load the contents into the warehouse , 

ness is excluded therc remained cogent evidence to warrant 
Although there was a rule that empty packages should not 
be received in the warehouse without the instructiony of a 

the conclusions arrived at. 
higher authority , he was prepared to allow the unloading to 

26 . For the above reasons it must be held that the punish 
be done, had be been shown the loading sheet countersigned 

ment of the dismissal imposed hy the management of Bom 
by tho Shed Superintendent of the Transit Shed giving the 

bay Port Trust, Bombny on Shri G . G . Landge, Tally Clerk , 
instrictions to accept these packages. A persial of the evi 

Docks Department, was justified taking all relevant matters 
dence of this witness clearly shows that the loading sheet was 

into consideration and that the workman is not entitled to 
not produced bofore him and as such he could not allow the 

any relief . 
unloading to be done. No doubt there is discrepancy in the 
testimony of Mr. Joshi 200 this witness as to the reason 

27. The reference is answered accordingly . 
why the unloading could not be done, but the reason assigned 

J . NARAIN , Presiding Officer 
by Mr. Joshi is what was stated to him by Mr. Landge , On 

[No, L -31012 ( 3 ) /75- D - IVIA ) 
this ground alone, evidence of either of the two witnessce 
cunnot be viewed with suspicion , 

NAND LAL, Desk Officer. 


New Delhi, the 8th September, 1977 
3 . 0 , 2999 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal (No. 1 ) Dhanbad in the industrial 
dispute between the employers in relation to the United Com 
mercial Bank and their workmen , which was received hy the 
Central Government on the 3rd Sept., 1977 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 


20. Evidence of Mr. Agrade, the sorter is clear that there 
were a few bags which were torn and a few empty bags 
and the Shed Supcrintendent had mado a mention of it in 
the loading sheet. A suggestion was given to him that hags 
were suspected to have been stolen . But the suggestion has 
remained a suggestion . 

21. Evidence of Mr. B . G . Ante , the Labour Supervisor, is 
that at the time of loading he had expressed his difficulties 
that they were not supposed to load damaged goods. But he 
did not have any objection when Shri Landgc was given 
permission to have the remarks mentioned on the loading 
shcet about the condition of the packages . It was after all 
this that the londing was done on the loiry and it was ready 
for despatch at 2 .45 pm . On the pretext that the lorry Chit 
Book was not available , the workot delayed despatch of the 
lorry till 3 ,45 p .m . At 3 .45 p . m . thc Chit Book was found , 
but Shri Landyc told Mr. Joshi that he will bring back the 
lorry to the shed for uploading, and that the lorry started at 
4 p .m . He is also clear that Shri Landge had lost his temper 
in the talks with Mr. Toshi. 


TRIBUNAL NO . 1, DHANBAD 
In the Matter of a reference under section 10 ( 1 ) ( ) of the 

Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 

Reference No . 18 nf 1974 
Ministcy s Order No. I.-12012 / 140 /73 /1.RII, d . 18 - 12 - 1974 . 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the United Commercial Bank . 

AND 

Their Workmen . 
APPEARANCES : 
For the Employers : Shri Anin Ray and Shri G . C . 

Sen , officers of the Bank . 


22 . I have set out above the evidence to which reference 
was made and on reading them I do not think that there was 
inappreciation of evidence on the part of the Enquiring Offi 
cer . 

23 . The management in its rejoinder has set out the kind 
of previous record that the workman possessed . He has been 


- 


- 


- 


- 


ATTIT II - ET 3 ( 1 ) ] FRA HT TETT : HAHAT 24, 1977 /2Ti 2, 1899 

3463 
- - 

- - - - 
- -- - - - - - - - - - -- 

- 

- - - 
- -- - - 

- : 

- - 
For the Workmen : Shri J. C . Padhiar , the concerned 

cannot be deemed by fiction of law to be an industrial dis 
Workman . 

pute , ( 4 ) the United Commercial Bank Employees Associa 

tion was also not authorised to sponsor the dispute of Padhiar 
STATE : Bihar , 

INDUSTRY : Bank . 

and Singh because it had not passed any Resolution for the 
Dhanbad , duled the 29th Jugust, 1977 

cspousal of their cause , ( 5 ) N . P . Tripathy, the authorised 

representative of the United Commercial Bank Enir 
AWARD 

loyees Association has resigned his membership of the As 
"The Central Government, in exercise of the powers con sociation and has also withdrawn his authorisation and , 
Cerred by clausc ( d ) of sub -section ( i ) of section 10 of the therefore , he cannot represent either Padhiar and Singh , ( 6 ) 
Industrial Disputes Act hus iefurre the following lispute 

Padhiar has no right to authorise D . P . Roy, General Secre 
adjudication to this Tribunal, namely : 

try . All India United Commercial Stuff Federation to repre 

sent his case and D . P . Roy also has no authority to so re 
" Whether the action of the management of the United 

present him ; ( 7 ) D . P . Roy has no authority to represent him 
Commercial Bank , Jamshedpur in terminating the 

also because the All Inclia United Commercial Bank Staff 
services of Sarvashri J. C . Padhiar, Clerk , and 

Federation has not pusscd : iny Resolution authorising him to 
Pashupathi Nath Singh , Pcon , from the 13th June, 

Tepresent Pachiar : 18 ) Padhiar and Singh ceased to be work . 
1972 and 26th July , 1473 Tespecively is jusulied ? 

man under sec 219 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act and the 
If not, to what relief are they entitled ?" 

Icference is, thercfore , without jurisdiction , ( 9 ) there is no 

inclustrial dispute within the meaning of section 2k of the 
2 . The case of the United Commercial Bank ( hereinafter 

Industrial Disputes Act as there can be no such dispute bet 
referred to as the Bank ) as against Padhiar is that he way 

ween non -workinan and the inanagement, ( 10 ) both Padhiar 
appointed as a clerk on purely temporary basis during the ind Singh arc cstopped from ruising the dispute hecause they 
period January 28 , 1971 to March 24 , 1971 in the lenve vacan 

had obtained payment of their salaries till the last date of 
cies of Mrs . Santhan Narilyniaswamy, T . N . Uruhyry and 

their service and ( 11 ) they hud withdrawn their claim before 
L . S . Gopalakrishnun . Thereatter he was given another ar 

the A . L . C . during the course of conciliation proceedings and 
pointment is a purely temporary clerk during the period 

they are cstopped from raising the dispute on that ground 
April 13 , 1971 and May 30 , 1971 in the leave vacancics of 

also . 
LS. Gopalak , ishoan , Mrs. P . S . Indira , h . C . Dave and 
B , N , Bhowmick . He was given is third temporilly Ippointment 
during the period June 7 , 1971 to June 26 , 1971 in the leave 

6 Singh did not file any written statement and did not 
Vacancy of N . P . Tripathy . A fresh temporary ippointment 

put in appearance on any date of hearing presumably because 
was given to him during the period October 5, 1971 lo Nov he has since then been re -employed as a permanent hand 
ember 5 , 1971 in the Icavc vacancies of Mrs. Santham Nara and hus no interest Icft in this infructuous dispute . The mat 
ynaswamy and Mrs . Yogimbal Parasuraman , Another fresh ter has procccded ex parte against him . 
temporary appointment was given to him during the period 
January 5 , 1972 to April 4 , 1972 in the leave vacancy of 

7 . Padhiar has pleaded thit he has put in a total period 
Mrs. S . N . Swamy. A final temporary appointment was given 

of service extending to 301 days against permanent vacan 
to him during the period April 20 , 1972 to June 12 , 1972 

cies and not against leive vacancies ; that since he has com 
in the leave vacancy of Mrs. Yogumbal Pallanuraman . This 

pleted more than 240 days of service , he is cligiblc for per 
temporary appointment was not extended ny fun her beyond 

mancnt absorption under paras 20 . 8 to 20 . 12 of the Bi- partite 
June 12 , 1972 . The Bank allcgey that there wils no terminu Settlement between the Bank and its workmen arrived at 
tion of his service with cffcct from June 13, 1972 and what 

on October 19 , 1966 ; that he is further entitled for permit 
happened was an automatic end due to the cfflux of time. 

nent absorption under paras 20 . 8 to 20 . 12 of the Bi-partite 
The Bank has also alleged that there could be no question of 

pen absorption under the Bank s circular datel July 7 . 1972 . 
absorption of Pachiar on a permanent footing as he had failed 

that he had uppeared at the written test on January 26 , 1971 
to qualify at the written test for recruitment of permanent 

and had qualified and was thus entitled to permanancy ; that 
clerical hands . 

the Bank has made temporary hands, similarly situated ELS 

him , into permanent hands which is highly discriminatory ; 
4 . The Bank s casc as against Singh is that he was an 

that he has been victimised on account of his trudc union 
pointed as a temporary pcon during the period October 28 , 

activities ; that he had raised an industrial dispute himself 
1971 und January 4 , 1972 in the leave vacancy of Chandar 

and also through the United Commmercial Bank Employees 
Singh ; during the period February 28 , 1972 to April 10 , 

. Issociation ; that N . P . Tripathy s withdrawal is immatcrial 
1972 in the leave vacancy of Ramakant Rai ; during the 

inasmuch as he can represent his case himself before the Tri 
period May 3 , 1972 to May 20, 1972 in the leave vacancy 

bunal ; and hence hc is cntitled to reinstatement with con 
of Ratun Singh ; Juring the period May 22 , 1972 to July 

tinuity of service and full hack wages. 
24 , 1972 in the leave vacancy of Ambika Prasad ; during the 
period October 22 , 1972 to October 28 , 1972 in leavc vacancy 
of Ramji Lal Singh ; during the period November 17, 1972 

8 . In its reioindcr, the Bank has pleaded that the case 
to December 23, 1972 in the leavc vacancy of Shival Nand 

of Padhiar is neither covered by the Bi-Partite Settlement nor 
Dubey ; Juring the period February 5 , 1973 10 April 10 , 

hy the circular letter ; that Padhiar appeared at the written 
1973 in thc leuve vacancy of Chandar Singh ; during the 

test held in Mav 1971 but failed to qualify at the same : 
period May 23, 1973 lo June 10 , 1973 in the Icuve vacancy 

1hat there was no test held on January 26 , 1971 ; and that 
of Ramakant Rai ; and during the period June 11, 

Pudhiar is not entitled to any relief whatsoever. 
1973 to ( uly 25 , 1973 in the leave vacancy of Ramji Lai 
Singh . His temporary services were not extended after July 

9 . Al the instance of the partics , 12 issues were framed 
25, 1973. It has further becn allcged by the Bank that thcie to cover the legal pleas . These issues are as follows : 
was no question of the termination of his service also as his 
services came to an end by ctilu olime caused by the 70 
extension of his last term . The Bank has then 

( 1 ) Is the reference invalid for the reason that the dis 

lleged that 
Ifter the cessation of his service , Singh appeared it thy writ 

pute is an individual and not an industrial dispute and the 
ten test for recruitment of subordinate cadre staff and quali 

reference has not been made under Section 2A of the Indus. 
fied at the same and because of that has now been taken in 

trial Disputes Act ? 
the permanent service of the Bank since September 20 , 1973 . 

( 2 ) Had the United Commercial Bank Employccs AS 
5 . A large number of legal plcus have also been raised 

sociation . Jamshedpur 110 locus standi to invoke the jurisdic 
by the Bank against both Padhiar and Singh . These pleas , in 

tion of the Central Government under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( ) 
il nut-shell are : ( 1 ) Pudhius and Singh were not mem 

of the Industrial Disputes Act. 
bers of the United Commercial Bank Employees Association , 
Jamshedpur anal, therefore , the Association had no locus 

( 3 ) Is the United Commercial Bank Emplovies Asso 
standi to sponsor their dispute , ( 2 ) the United Commercial 

ciation 
Rawk Tupiovers Association is no right to represent thy n 

registered trude union ? Tr not, has it no right to 
in these procrcdings under Section 36 of the industrial Dis 

Il riesent the worlunan ? 
putes Act inasmuch as it is not registered trade union , ( 3 ) 

( 4 ) Was I, ( . Pudbior a member of the Unite, Commer 
the reference had not been made under section 2 . 1 of the cial Bank Employees Association : I non, cilihat smuciation 
Industrial Disputes Act and as such the individual dispute represent him ? 


- - - - - - 


- 


- - - 


- - 


3464 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977 / ASVINA 2 , 1899 [Pant 11 - SEC . 3(ii)] 

- - - - - - - 

- - - -- - - 
( 3 ) Was a resolution passed by the general body of the could not sustain the reference under Sec . 2A . The Madra : 
United Commercial Bank Employees Association or by its High Court held that the mere fact that the Government say 
Executive Committeo empowering the Secretary of the Asso that they did not mean to invoke Section 2 .1 iş immaterial, 
ciation to represent J . C . Padbiar ? If not, its effect ? 

If the Court found that the Government had jurisdiction by 

virtue of Section 24 it was open to the Court to sustain the 
(6 ) Has the Association lost its right to l epresent J . C . reference by reference to Sec . 24 . The same point came up 
Padhiar becauso of the resignation of N . P . Tripathi, the for decision in the same High Court in Management of 
former Secrotary ? 

Pioneer K . Estate vs . Workinen of Pioneer K . Lstate , 1974 

( 1 ) LL . 332 . In that case , the dispute was sponsored by the 
( 7 ) Is D . P . Roy, Genoral Secretary , All India Upited union though it related to a single workman. The represen . 
Commercial Bank Staff Federation not entitled to represent tative character of the union was challenged and it was 
J. C . Padhiar ? 

contended that the dispute referred to for adjudication was 

only an individual dispute huit Section 2A had not been in 
( 8 ) Is the All India United Commercial Bank Staff Fede voked and it would not be a collective dispute as the unior 
ration not empowered to represent J. C Padhiar without pas was not of a representative character . The view expressed in 
sing a resolution to that effect ? 

the earlier case was followed and it was held that Section 24 
would come into operation because the Government had the 

jurisdiction to make the reference under Section 2A . Ir 
( 9 ) Is J. C . Padhiar not a workman within the meaning 
of Soction 2 (s ) of the Industrial Disputes Act ? If so , its 

Dunlop India Limited vs. B . D . Gupta , 1975 Lub .i . C . 702 , The 

dispute regarding termination was taken up both by the 
effect ? 

union as well as by the employee . It was argued that once 
( 10 ) Is J. C . Padbiar c topped from challenging the ter 

it was shown that the union had taken up the matter and 
mination of his service ? 

had cspoused the dispute, the dispute became a collective 

dispute under Section 2 ( k ) and cannot be aid to hear 
( 11 ) Is there no industrial dispute within the meaning of 

individual dispute under Section 2A . This contention was 
Section 2 ( k ) of the Industrial Disputes Act ? 

repelled by the Delhi High Court by the observation that 

Section 2 ( k ) defines an industrial dispute and Sec. 2A in 
( 12 ) Is Sri R . K . Mukherjee entitled to represent s. C . 

merely an exception to it , and becausc by deeming provision 
Padhiar ? 

it makes what is provided therein an industrial dispute , there . 

Core , what is referred to under Section 10 is always an indus: 
10 . Evidence on the legal issucs was led earlier and the trial dispute . 
following findings were recorded on June 13 , 1977 on these 
issuhog, namely : 

The wrong mention of a section or the omission to men 

tion a section is never material. What is material is the 
Issue No . 1 

nature of the dispute . The dispute is about the terminatior 

of service of J , C . Padhiar which is an individual dispute bu 
The plea raised , in paragraph 2 of the written statement of 

which can become an industrial dispute under Section 2A 
the Bank , is that the reference relates 

without the assistance of the Association ; and iſ the reference 

to an individual, 
namely , J . C . Padhiar and since the same has not teen 

Wag made on the espousal of the Association and that es 
referred under Section 2A , thore is no industrial disputc and 

pousal falls , the workman can always invoke the aid o 

Section 2A , I am in respectful agreement with the view 
the Tribunal has no jurisdiction to decide it. 

expressed by the Madras High Court, and with all respec 

and in all humility , it appears that thc Calcutta view is no 
The contention of the representative of the Bank is that the correct vicw of law , 
there are several factors contained in the order of reference 
itself which will go to show that the dispute referred is a 

The issue is decided : guinst the Banh . 
collective dispute and not an individual dispute and, there 
fore, if the United Commercial Bank Employees Association 
can be put out of the way, J. C . Padhiar would not be coin 

Issue No. 2 
potent to raise his individual dispute and the Tribunal will 
have no jurisdiction to go into the merits of the matter . The 

The case , taken in paragraph 2 of the written statemen 
order of reference mentions that the Central Government was of the Bank , is that the dispute as mentioned in the reference 
of opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the United is between the Bank and the United Commercial Bank Em 
Commercial Bank and their workmen . It also mentions that ployces Association , as will appear from the endorsemen 
the reference was being made under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) lead of the reference to the Association , but the Association hac 
with Section 2A . Morcover, a copy of the reference was no right to espouse the cause of J. C . Padhiar as there was 
endorsed to the Secretary , United Commercial Bank Em no dispute about cmployment or non -cmployment in 29 mici 
ployees Association , and not to J. C . Padhiar in person . It as the end of his services by ciflux of time will not amoun 
is on the basis of the above facts that it is argued that to termination . The matter was, however , argued from wholly 
no individual dispute ripening into an industrial dispute under different aspects . 
Section 2A has been referred for adjuclication . The order 
further mentions that the industrial dispute roferred is spe 

The first aspect raised was that there is no community o 
cified in the Schedule . The Schedule mentions whether the interest between the Association and J . C . Padhiar. Then 
action of the Bank in terminating the services of J , C . can be no doubt that it is the community of interest of th 
Padhiar was justified . The dispute referred , therefore, cun class as a whole which furnishes the real nexus between th 
cerns a single workman though it was espoused by the Asso dispute and the parties to the dispute . Even a singlc em 
clation , Reliance was placed on Swapan Das Gupta vs . The ployee s dispute may develop into an industrial dispute , when 
First Labour Court. 1976 Lab . I. C . 202 , decided by the Cal it is taken up by a union or a number of workers who maki 
cutta High Court for the proposition that when a reference a concerned demand for redress . But the community of interes 
is not under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) read with Section 24 , that is does not depend on whether the concerned workman wag 
to say , the reference has not been made on the ground that member of the union or not at the date when the caus 
there is a dispute existing between the employer and the occurred , for , without his being a member, the dispute mu 
individual workman , the reference cannot be upheld under be such that other workmen by having a common interes 
Section 2A . In taking this view , the High Court disagreed therein would be justified in taking up the dispute as thei 
with the decision of the Madras High Court in Coimbatore own and espouse it. J . C . Padhiar was an employee in th 
Co - operative Milk Supply Union Ltd . vs . Siluvaimuthu. 1970 Bank . His demand for continued employment can be 
( II ) LLJ. 101. In that case , the dispute was whether the non demand in which the other employees of the same Bank an 
employment of seven workmen was justified and if not, to particularly in the same branch of the Bank , may hav 
what relief cach was entitled . The management pleaded that common interest. Even before the insertion of Sec. 2A , it wa 
the reference was not valid because there was no industrial Leld in Western India Match Company Ild , vy, Western Inţi 
Jispute . The Government took the stand that in making the Match Co. Workers Union , 1970 ( II ) LLJ /256 that the cost 
reference , they had not invoked Section 2A of the Act. The mlinity of interest did not depend on whether the workma 
management contonded that the Labour Court, therefore , was a member of the union , for , without his being a member 


Tory Il - QUE 3 ( ii ) ] 


HTTFT 7531971 : TA 


24, 1977 / font 2 , 1899 


3465 


the other workmen may make common cause with him . Sec 
tion 2A has introduced a fiction to the effect that an indi 
vidual dispute concerning discharge , dismissal, retrenchment 
or termination are to be deemed an industrial dispute not 
withstanding that no other workmen or any union of work 
men espouses the dispute . The requirement of espousal, there 
fore , has lost its importance and relevance . The question is 
whether or not J . C . Padhiar had approached the Association 
for the espousal of his cause and whether or not the Asse 
ciation had taken a decision that it should be espouscc . 
J . C . Pachiar has deposed that when his services came to 
an end , he wrote a letter to the Association to raise a demand 
for his reinstatement and upon his move , thc Secretary of the 
Association wrote to the Bank about it. Hic , however , does 
not know if the Association passed any rcsolution for Ch 
pousing his cause , I am not prepared to believe this statement 
of his because he has not filed an office copy of the letter that 
he sent to the Association . He did not summon the original 
letter from the Association or the other relevant records and 
explained his tailure by stating that the Association had 
submitted the records to its Head Ollicc at Calcutta . However , 
he has no explanation as to why he did not summon the 
records from the Head Office. Again , he stated that the Asso 
ciation took up the matter with the management but there is 
no evidence to support it. No office bearer of the Association 
was called to prove this fact. The oflice copy of the demand 
made by the Association , was also not called , No document 
was summoned from the management also to prove that 
such a demand had been made by the Association. That 
being so , no industrial dispute was raised by the Association 
itself and conscqucntly there was no collective dispute . 


register, or the subscription register or the counterfoils re 
ceipt book . All these facts were specifically challenged by the 
Bank and thereforc , a Juty was cast upon J . C . Padhi: r to 
prove his membership of the Association anıt the fact that it 
was a Registered Trade Union but , besides oral testimony, 
he took no step to summon the authentic records in proof 
of his assertion , I, therefore , hold that it has not been satis 
factorily established that the United Commercial Bank Em 
ployees Association is a Registered Trade Union or J. C . 
Padhiar is a member of any such Association , Section 36 
deals with the representation of parties . Clause ( a ) of suh . 
section ( 1 ) is to the cffcct that a workman who is a party 
to a dispute shall be entitled to be represented in any pro 
ceeding under the Act hy any member of the Executive 
or other office bearer of a registered Trade Union of which 
he is a member. It has been hell above that the Association 
is not a Registered Trade Union and it has also been held 
that J . C . Padhiar is not a meinber and , thcrcforc , he is not 
cntitled to be represented by any meorber of the Executive 
or other office bearer of the Association in the proceedings 
bcforc mc. 


Issues Nos. 3 and 4 ac accordingly decided in favour 
of the Bank . 

Issue No. 5 
The question raised in Isslic No. 5 is whether or not 
the general body of the United Commercial Bank Employees 
Association or its executive committee passed any resolution 
empowering the Secretary of the Association to represent , C . 
Pudhiar in these proceedings under Sec. 36 . 

It has been held in connection with another issuc that 
J . C . Padhiar was not a member of the United Commercial 
Bank Employees Association and that Association is not 
authorised to represent him under Section 36 ( 1 )(,1) ind , 
therefore, this issue has become redundant ud no finding is 
required . 


Issue No. 6 


However, an individual dispute was raised by J . C . Pudhiar 
himself. He has deposed that he had taken up his case with 
the management. This was denied by MW - 1 Madan Mohun 
Batra , the Jamshedpur Branch Manager . He stated that J . C . 
Padhiar had made no such demand upon him . He, however , 
admitted that he is not aware if he had made such a demand 
on the then Manager. It appears that a demand way made. 
J . C . Padhar wrote a letter to the Regional Officer on 
January 28, 1973 , Ext . W -25 is the registration receipt for 
the despatch of that letter . The Bank could have filecl that 
letter to show that no demand was made. Ext. W - 26 is a 
reply sent the letter dated January 28 , 1973. Ext. W - 27 is 
a reply sent by ) . C . Padhiar to Ext. W - 26 . It appcar s that 
J. C . Pudhiar had raised the dispute . In short , therefore , even 
if it cannot be trcated as a collective industrial dispute , his 
demand can certainly be treated as an individual dispute 
becoming an industrial dispute by the force of Section 2A . 
The issue is decided accordingly . 

Issues Nos. 3 and 4 
The plea taken by the Bank , in paragraph 2 of is willen 
statement, is that the United Commercial Bank Employces 
Association is not « Registered Trade Union and , therefore , 
it has no legal right to represent J. C . Padhiar before the 
Tribunal under Section 36 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 
The further plea taken in the same paragraph is that the 
Bank has no knowledge if J . C . Padhiar was a member of 
the Associution on the date of tht reference as he had ccased 
to be an employee of the Bank on June 13 , 1972 and on 
that uccount also the Association is not competent to represent 
him in this Reference under the said section 36 . 


The individual dispute of the workman J. C . Padhiar was 
sponsored by the United Comnicrcial Bank Employees Asso 
ciation , Jamshedpur Unit and it is on the cspousal of the 
Association that the Central Government made the present 
reference . N . P . Tripathi was to represent J. C . Pudhiar in 
this reference in his copacity as the Secretary of the Associa 
tion . He was , however , promoted as an Officer and resigned 
his membership of the Association . He also made an appli 
cation on July 5 , 1976 that because of his resignation , he 
has no authority left to appear on behalf of J. C . Padhar 
and will no longer represent him in the Tribunal. 1. C . 
Padhiar also made on application on July 16 , 1976 nicationing 
the aforesaid facts and requesting permission to represent llis 
case himself or to appoint another authorised representative. 
The Bank, in paragraph 4 of its written statement, has raised 
the plea that since the Association has withdrawn its support 
from J. C . Pajhiar by the withdrawal of N . P . Tripathi from 
representation , the industrial dispute originally raised is 110 
longer an industrial dispute and has , indeerl, bucode an Indivi 
dual dispute and the reference has become invalid , J. C . 
Padhiar, in paragraph 17 of his written statement -cum 
rejoinder, has denicd the validity of this plea and bus con 
tended that even though the Association may have lost interest 
in his case, he is legally cntitled to represent his cun case and 
there can be no bar to that. There is no substance in the 
contention of the Bank . In Working Tournalists of the 
Hindu vs . the Hindu, 1961 ( T ) LI. 1. 288, the Madras High 
Court observed : 


WW -2 J . C . Pudhiar has deposed that the United Commer 
cial Bank Employees Association is a Registered Trade Union). 
with its Head Office at Calcutta and a Branch Office , namely , 
the unit office at Jamshedpur ; and that he was a member 
of the Jamshedpur Unit of the Association , I Un not inclined 
to place reliance upon his testimony . He has no recollection us 
to the date , month and year when he became a member of 
the Association . He has no knowledge about the rate of 
membership subscription and whether it is annual or monthly . 
He stated that he paid u subscription of Rs. 7 / - only but 
hero ugain he was no recollection as to when he iriade the 
payment. He asserts that he was given a receipt but that hus 
not been filed . It was suggested to him that he was not a 
member and never paid any subscription for it , but he denied 
that this was so . The certificate of registration of the Asso 
ciation has not been filed . Tuen the registrativi munber i 
viot known , Nu office bearer of the union was summoned lo 
produce the certificate of registration , or the membership 


" It inay be held thut the jurisdiction of the Labour Court 
to proceed with the matter wholly depends on whether the 
industrial dispute referred to it for adjudication existect or 
was apprehended on the date of the reference and not on 
any subscquent date . Having regard to the relevant tatutory 
provisious , it must be held that thc jurisdiction of the Labour 
Court to proceed with and adjudicate upon in industrial 
dispute stems from and is sustained , until it makes an award 
and the same becomes enforceable, by the reference itself 
which has been made on the basis of u industrial dispute 
existing or apprehended on the data uf the referent 10:41 
that the jurisdiction of tht lahour court to proceed in the 
inatter is not in any way affected by the fact that sub41?: nt 
to the date of the reference, the workers or 1 subyt:uthu 


3160 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977/ASVINA 2 , 1899 [PART 11 - SEC . 3( ii )] 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - -- - - : 
section of them , who hud originally ponsored the callc, hud 

Pidhiar falls fruily and squarely within the ambit of clause 
aler resiled and withdrawn from it " Thes e question come ( C ) . D . P , Roy, it is not denied , is an officer of a trade 
Jp before their Lordships of the Supreme Court also ill hon 

union , muy bc of 1 federation of trade unions, of this 
uy Union of Journalists is . Hindil , 1961 ( II) LLJ.436 . In very Bank. This is clear from his evidence and there is 
confirming the view of the Midias High Court, thcir Lordships 

nothing contrary to that. Even if he cannot represent ) . C . 
Ielivered themselves thus : 

Pailhiar is an officer of the trade union , he is certainly a 

workman engaged in the Banking Industry and his cunc falls 
" In our view , these observations correctly set out the elevi within the latter part of clause ( c ) . J. C . Padhiar wis alio 

a subscqucnt wihi lilil of support by the workinchi of it imployed in the same Bank in which D . P . Roy was em 
rausc pieviously spoled by them , in each casc in lycer ployed . Both of them are employees in the same Industry 
aining whether an indiviiliad dispute has acquired to chucier and , therefore , clause ( c ) confers a light upon J. C . Paghiar 
of an industrial dispute , the test is whether at the date uf to authorisc D . P . Roy to represent him and D . P . Roy gets 
he relerence the dispute was taken up as supported by the an althority to represent him by the fact of authorisation 
Inion of the workinen of the cmployer against whom the under law . The representative of the Bank , however, il gued 
lispule is thised by an individual Hochman or by an impie thot the auhurisation must be in the prescribed manner and 
rible number of workinen." The sime view was taken in since the authorisation made by 1 . C . Pudhiar is not in the 
Indian Cable Company Ltd . vs . Its Workmen , 1962 (1 ) LLJ. prescribed manner , D . P . Roy is not legally cntitled to repre 
109 ; Rawalpindi Victory Transport Co . ( P ) Ltd . vs . Labour sent him . Rule 36 of the Industrial Disputes ( Central) Rules 
Court, 1962 ( I ) TIJ. 152 ; hutu Bus Service Limited is , says that the authority in favour of il person to leriesent 
wurdial Singh , 1963 ( 1 ) L . 231 and Binny Limited vs . a workman in any proceeding under the Act shall be in 
lheir Workmen , 1972 Lab . I. Ç . 1141. In the instant case , the fiorin F . The authority given by J. C . Padhiar rcuds : " with 
Wysociation has not without its Support und what hils 

reference to the above case , I like to inform you that I 
happened in that its Secretary hity jesigned from the Associa 

authorisc Mr, D . P . Roy, General Secretary , All India , 
ion and expressed his inability to represent the workmu U . C . Bank Stall Federation , 2 , India Exchange Place , Cal 
in the proceddings beloie nic undei Sec . 36 of the ladust ! 

cutta - 1 to represent my case before the Court." The letter of 
Disputes Act. The industrial dispute remain as it lVils and 

authority is not signed by D . P . Roy in token or acceptance . 
Even if the Isociation itself decilcil to withdraw its wiirport, 

Nor has hc filed any separate lctter of acceptance . However , 
by that fact the industrial dispute will not becone in indivi 

there are two applications dated October 14 , 1976 in which 
1128l dispute , or cease 10 helm industrial dispute . 

he claims to be the authorised representaive of J. C . Paghiar. 

Form F is slightly in different form than the authority letter 
The iyue is accordingly deciiled against the Banh . 

issued by J . C . Pachiur as thc Form Mentions that the 

recipient of the authority should sign in token of icceptance . 
Pristle No. 7 

I think that the provisions of Rule 36 are mandatory when 

read with clausc (c ) of section 3611) and non - compliance 
The pleit taken by the Binh , in paragraph 5 of its written will render the authority invalid . In the circuit tances, D . P . 
statement, is that J. C . Padhiar hils althorised D . P . Roy , Roy has no Authority at present to represent J. C . Padhiar . 
General Secretary , All India United Commercial Bank Sul This does not, however , moun that he cannot inners in 
Federation , to represent him in the prenent proceeduys bull future if J . C . Pilchiar gives him 21 tresh lellei of authority 
he has no locus stundi to authorise him and D . J . Roy has in accordance with Form F . 
JIO locus standi 10 jepre -cnt him under section 36 of the 
Industriul Disputes l _ t. 

The representative of the Bank further argued that the 

industrial dispute in question is a collective dispute and , there 
Section 36 ( ! ) deals with the representation of a workman fore , the union which has sponsored the disputc can alone 
in a proceeding under the Ict . It says that it workman who represent J. C . Pachiar and T. C . Pajbiar has no right to 
is a party to a dispute shall be entitled to be represented in represent the casc cither himself or through an authorised 1c 
any proceeding under the Act by 

presentative under clause ( c ) . Reliance for this proposition 
( 2 ) any member of the cxecutive or other offive heurer 

of law was placed upon Ram Prasad Vishwakarm vs Indus 

trial Tribunál, 1961. (1 ) LLJ. 504 . In that case , their Lordships 
of u registered trade union ol which he is a mem 

of the Supreme Court held : 


ber : 


( b ) any member ol The Lxecutive or other online herver 

olil federation of trade unions to which the tralle 
liian relerred to in clause ( a ) is affiliated ; 


( c ) whcre the worker is not i meriber of any trade 

Linion , by 10 officer of any trade union conue 
with , or by any other workman employed in , thie 
inclustry in which the worker is employed and illil !io 
rised in such danner as may be prescubeu . 


It has been seen in connection with my lindings on Isslic ) 
Nos. 3 und 4 that the United Commercial Bank Employees 
Association is not a registered trade union and J. ( . Pachiudi 
Hath not a member of iny such union . That being so , there 
can arise no question of iny affiliation of the United Coin 
inercial Bank Eniployees Association with the lindil 
United Commercial Bank Stall Federillion illl it Tollows that 
D . P . Koy cannot represent J . C . Pauhiar under clause ( 6 ) 
of Section 36 ( 1 ). 


" It is now well-settled that dispute between an individual 
workmal and un employer cannot be an industrial dispute ! 
Hefined in Section 2 ( k ) of the Industrial Dispucs Act unless i 
in tithen up hy it lion of the workmen or hy il considerable 
110mher of work men . . . . The necessary corollary to this is tha 
the individual workman is at no stage a party to the industria 
dispute independently of the inion . The union or those work 
men who have by their sponsoring turned the individual dis 
put into it industrial disrule, can therefore claim to have i 
sity in the conduct of the proceeding before the Tribunal ." 
Their Lorships proceeded to say that while it will be unwin 
ind inlezt impossible to try to lay down a general rule in 
the multer . the ordinary rule should in our opinion , he thu 

Ich representation by unollice of the trade wion shoul 
continu throughout the proceedlings in the absence of excep 
110na1 circunstances which may justify the tribunal tu per 
other representation of the workinen concerned " . Their Lud 
ships did not lay down any hud UGT last rulu Their Lonship 
only held that ordinarily the individual workou Should no 
be permitted to be represenic .] by id ,on other thin hi 
union representative but the rule Cill be related in mrecia 
circumstances . In Rum Piaski s case , the union hind filed th 
written statement on behalf of the workman and urto certai 
stage , he was represented by un llicer of the union ; and 
Was only at a subsequent stage that he made in applicution fo 
i different representation . The low laid down by their Lord bir 
of the Supreme Cout was followed by the Calcutta Hig 
Coust in Rajcleo Pioval 15 . Stute of West Bengt 1462 
11 ) . 618 und by the Patna High Court in Dr. Chandio kul . 
Jha vs Sone Valley Pori I m Cement Co . I , 1962 ) 
Til 75 md Tein in h u hiilidel ( 114Y 1 s Picniline 

ist, 1 71 il 1. , . In the in - liul wist in Wil , 

lied to N P Tripti Secretary , United Commercial Bruk 
Friployees isociation but he informick the Tribunal that he 


But where a workman is not a member of any trude (11 !Oil, 
Section 3611 ) 10 ) confers the light upon such a workman to 
ho l epiesented in fly proceedings under the Ict by in Ollicer 
of any trade union connecícd with , or ly Jy ulici workman 
cmployed in the industry in which he is employed by : ntho 
rising such a repicentative in the prescribed manner . Cons , 11 
ing the language of clausc ( c ), it is manifest that it upliens 
to the case of a workman who is not a member of 10y U cle 
union , much less il registered trade union . In the wees 
theliulito fin ! ( piese winter by A ici, Mind 
10 51 WOLL OMBO l ucru r 

17 - 1Cuistotel 
Brille union of ny trade union it all. The file or I. C 


-- 


- 


36 , 


[ HTT ( 1 - - : ( ii ) ] HITTA 4T 77197 : fost 24, 1477 /31f097 2, 1849 

3467 
- - . - . 

- - -- - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - 
12. 111 resigned from hic i nvision and had vithilinen from verkrnar thor- cond rart is designed in include cription 
141esentiun in the LIK 11 il Calie s Alicacions , whicie 1] more than 111,11 ir 111 1 111 ) , 19cs in this chual 
union whiclı had sponsored the ville is takmg 110 inter ill ll . piul specifically cicludes the Cil.LOLA S of persons specific 
In Ram Piosd s case , and in the other cirses cited above , the in clares (i) to (iv ). Looking to the words in clause (s ), it 
union continued to represent thc workmen 11 is il fil ciase. 

clear that there are the following isces of persons who 
Therefore, in which the Tribunal shoukal permit J . C . L ulhian fall within the delinition 
10 take the benefit of clause ( c ). 

( 1) il person employed in any industry , 
Besides , it puty has always it right to represent himself . 
That right is undoubicdly an effective right, a fundamental 

( 2 ) any such person who his been Jischarged, dismissed 
light and , as remarked in the case ot Vemhic Cheinis al Works 

or retrenched in connection wi h or as a consequence 
Co. Ltel. Vn . P . D . Vyas , 1954 ( I ) IJT. 148 ) denial of that 

of the dispule, and 
right is clenial of justice. See also Printer (Mysore ) ( Pvt.) Limi 

( 3 ) whosc dismissal, discharge or retrenchment has lcd lo 
ted vs . Labour Court, 1960 ( 1) I LJ. 201 Bihar lounalis ! I lid. 
vs . H . K . Chouhuri, 1966 ( 1) TIJ. 789 and General Secretary 

the dispute . 
Engineering Staff Union vs . Indian Hime Pipe Company I td . 

The last two categories of persons are workmen in addition 
1967 ( 1) LLJ. 139. 1. C . Padhiar has contended that he has 

to the first category , lor, it is a well- settled rule of construc 
two options namely , to treat the dispute as a collective dispute 

lion that part of it definition which is an inclusive definition 
in which case he can resort lo section 36 (1 )( c ) by appointing 

as to the persons inuing to whom it definition is given , other 
D . P . Roy to represent him , or he can trcat it is in individual 

persons who otherwise would not be included , would be in 
dispute under Sec. 2A and to represent it himself or tu 

cluded . In this vicw , J . C . Mardhiar would be it workman fall 
authorisc D . P . Roy under Scction 36 (1)( c ). I think his c011 

ing in the (irst and thir<l categories for he was a person em 
tention is well founded . 

ployed in an industry in whose non comployment has led 
My finding is that the present representation of J . C . Pidhiar 

to present ( ope. In II Maychiar in michund Narayan . 
by D . P Roy is bad because the letler of authority is not in the 

1956 (1 ) LLI, 492, it was held that a woheminis (letined in 
prescribed manner and further because D . P . Roy has not 

section 2 / s ) meant any person who was employed at any time 
lccepted the authority hy signing the letier in token of Iccep 

in un industıy . It was further held that if he is specificd in the 
lince . It is open to J . C . Padhiar to remove this defect by a 

definition of “ workman " then whether he can cuisse an indus 
fresh letter of authority . In any case , it is open to him to re 

trial dispute or not must he judged by the definition of " int 
present himsell. 

dustrial dispute " given in Section 21K ) of the Act , A pesma, 

therefore , who is dismissed or whom his employer declines 
The issue is decided in the manner indicated above. 

to employ prior to the date when the dispute relating to his 

dismissal or non - employment is referred to by the Govern . 
: * Issue No. 8 

ment, is it workman within the meaning of Section 20s ) of 

the Act . In Santa Cruz — Kalina and Malad — Marwa Bus 
The question raised in this issue is whether or not the All 

Service vs. their Workmen , 1954 ( IT) LLT. 446 , it was hield 
India United Commercial Bank Staff Faileration passed any that a discharged or (lismissed cmployee can raise an indus 
resolution for the representation of J. C . Padhiar under Section 

triul dispute relatiing to his non -cmployment. The same view 

was followed in R . K . Iyengil vs . Calcutta Chromolypc Ltd ., 
It has been found on another issue that the United Com 

1957 (I) LLI. $65. 
mercial Bank Staff Federation is not cntitled to represent 

The representative of the Bank contended that J . C . Pachiar 
I C . Padhiar under Section 3611)( b ). In the light of that was ncither dismissed nor discharged nor i etrenched and , 
finding, this issue has become redundant and requires no therefore , he is not covered by the inclusive part of the defini 
linding . 

lion , The word " Jischargc " has not been defined by the Act , 

It is a term of wide amplitude which would mean to fiee 
Issue No. 9 

from a churge, or to relicve from a charge or even to dis 
The plen taken by the Bank , in paragraph 2 of its written 

miss . There can be no denying the fact that . C . Padhiar 
Statenient, is that J . C . Padhiar used 10 he given temporary 

ceased to be in employement and that was the l esult of the 
cmployment for limited periods from time to time and when 

fact that he was rclicved of his chargc . It is immaterial as to 
the last term expired by cfflux of time, he ceased to be a 

the manner in which this wils brought about, but it was dis 
workaian within the meaning of Section 2 ( s ) of thc Industrial 

charge all the same. I, therefore, hold that J . C . Padhiar is a 
Disputes Act and as such the reference is bad because there 

" workmin " , within the meaning of Section 2 (s ) of the In 
can he reference only in respect of an industrial dispute 

clustrial Disputes Act . 
raised by worknian and not by a person who is not a 

The issue is clccided against the Banh . 
workman). 

Issue No. 10 
Section 21s ) of the Industrial Disputes Act says that work 
mur" means any person (including an apprentice ) enployed in 

Thc ple: taken by the Bank, in paragraph 7 of its written 
ny industry to do inny skilled or unskilled manual , supervisory , statement, is that 1. C . Pudhiar cased to be a workman on 
technical or clerical work for hire or reward , whether the terms June 13 , 1972 and took payment of his salary without any pro 
of employment he expressed or implied , and for the purposes test and he is , therefore, estopped from challenging the cessa 
of any proceeding under this Act in relation to an industrial tion of his service . The plea taken , in paragraph 9 of the 
Jispute, includes any such person who has been dismisscd, dis written statement, is that there were two conciliation proceed 
char cd or retrenched in connection with , or as a consequence ings which ended on August 17 , 1973 and October 22 , 1973 
of that dispute , or whose dismissal, discharge or retrenchment respectively During the course of the first conciliation proceed 
has led to thit dispute, but does not include any such person 

ings, the Assistant Labour Commissioner reported 119 folowe : 
(i) who is subject to iny Army Acim . . . . . . . or the Air 

" It was pointed out to the union representative by the Assis 
Force Act . . . . . . . . . . . or the Navy (Disciplinc) Act, tant Labour Commissioner that since the services of the 
or 

workman already terminated in Junc 1972 there can not be 
(ii) who is employed in the police service or as an officer 

any dispute for regularisation of his service. The union is 

convinced and withdrawn the casc." It was contended that in 
or other employee oli piison , or 

vicw of the withdrawal of the case from the conciliation pro 
vii) who is employed mainly in a manugerial or adminis 

ceedings . J . C . Pirthiar in cur her estopped from challenging 
trative cupacity ; or 

his cessation now and the reference is not meintainable on that 

account. 
(iv ) who , being employed in a supervisory capacity , draws 

The Bank has taken no steps to produce a certified copy 
wages creeeding live hundied rupees per nensem or of the report suhniilled by the As. . Labour Commissioner 
CYCciscs, either lry the use of duties attached to in connection with the first conciliatior proceedings . The Bank 
the office or by reason of the powers vested in him . 

has also not examined any witness to prove that there were 
functions mainly of a managerial nature . 

two and not only onc conciliation proceeding os 10 prove us 

10 what transpired in the proceedings . The allegation con 
The clefinition of the term " workian " is in three pajis . l he hained in the written statement has thus remitined mere allega 
first put of the definition gives the statutory mcaning of lion , without proof. In uny ( sc , the trend in Ichent siccisions 


... 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- 


— 


- - - 


- 


3468 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977 /ASVINA 2 , 1899 

[PART II — SEC , 3( ii )] 
- - - - - - - -- -- 

- 

Bank Staff Federation , a fact which was seriously challenged 
is that application of technical rules such its res judicata , 

by Sri Arun Ray. Thc cvidence of Sri D . P . Roy was , 
acquiesence , cstoppel cic . are not appropriate the industrial ad 
judication , In Cruest Keen Williams (P .) Ltd . I s . Sterling therefore , recorded . Hc deposed thut Sri R . K . Mukherjee 

was An Honorary member of the Federntion . Honorary 
1959 ( II ) I LJ. 11) 5 , it was obycived that industrial tribunals 

membership is permitted by clause ( e ) of Section 6 of tho 
should be slow and circumspect in applying technical prin 
ciples such as 

Trade Unions Act, 1926 . Sri D . P . Roy derosed that Hono 
cquiescence and stoppel. See also Shahdara 

rury members can be admitted to the Federation by its Exe 
(Delhi) — Saharanpur Light Railway Company Ild ., VS , Shah 

cutive Committee and subsequently the membership hus to 
cara - - Saharanpur Railway Workers Union , 1969 ( I) LL ) , 734 . 

he approved by the general body. No papers , however, 
Reference can also be made 10 Workmen of Subong Tea Estate 

were filed by him to show that Sri R . K . Mukherjee had 
vs , Subong Teu Estate, 1964 (1 ) 11. ) , 333 and Hind Strip 

been admitted 18 an Honorary member by the Executive 
Mining Corporation Ltd . vs . Raj Kishore Prasad , 1967 ( I ) 

Committee and his membership has been confirnied by the 
LLJ. 108 . In the last iwo cases , a technical pleu was raised 

general body. On the next date of hearing, ŞH Roy produced 
that the workmen were cstopped from challenging the validity 

two papers which are minutes of meetings held on November 
of their retrenchments AS they had accepted retrenchment 

14 , 1975 and May 30 , 1976 . The originals were not pro 
compensation and it was held that such technical pleas are 

duced and no attempt was made to prove the filed documents 
not gencrally cntertained in industrial adjudications. The mere 

in any other manner also . Assuming them to be genuine, 
fact that J . C . Padhiar accepted payment of his salary on 

these papers show that the Executive Committee accepted him 
June 12 , 1972 will not disentitle him from subscquently raising 

as an Honorary member on November 14, 1975 und the 
it dispute for continued employment. The law conferred on 

Executive Committee itself confirmed him as such on May 
him that right and there can be no estoppeligainst the statute . 

30 , 1976 , Sri R . K . Mukherjee was thus not confirmed by 
Likewise , assuming that he had withdrawn his case from the 

the general body but by the Executive Committee itself . 
conciliation prececdings, that fact alone will not amount to 

Besides, it has been found elsewhere that the All India United 
estoppel from raising it dispute. 

Commercial Bank Staff Federation is itself not entitled to 
The issue is decided against the Bank 

represent J. C . Padhiar and, therefore , neither Sri D . P . Roy 

in his capacity as General Secretary nor Sri R . K . Mukherjee 
ISSUE NO. 11 

as an Honorary member can represent J . C . Padhiar. Section 

36 ( 1 ) ( b ) says that a workman can be represented by a 
The plea raised , in paragraph 8 of the written statement 

member of the Executive Committee or bysome offico 
of the Bank , is that the services of J . C . Padhiar were purely 

bearer of the Federation and not by an Honorary member. 
temporary and he never became permanent and since there 

There is nothing to show that Sri R . K . Mukherjee is a 
was no condition of service conferring on him A right to 

member of the Executive Committee of the Federation or 
claim continued employment there is no industrial dispute he is an oflice bearer within the meaning of clause (h ) of 
within the meaning of Section 2 ( k ) . 

Section 2 of the Trade Unions Act which says that " office 

bearer " in the case of a Trade Union includes any member 
Section 2 ( k ) defines " indlustrial Jispute " 418 meaning any 

of the Executive thereof, but does not include any auditor, 
dispute or difference between .. .. .. ... employer s and workmen 

Sri D . P . Roy has not shown as to in what manner Sri 
. . .. . . . . .which is connected with the employment or non -cm 

R . K . Mukherjee is an office bearer. It is not necessary , 
ployment or the terms of employment or with the conditions 

therefore , to enter into the question whether Sri R . K . 
of labour of any person . The definition can be divided into 

Mukherjce has been authorised by means of a resolution to 
three parts , namely , - - 11 ) the factum of dispute , ( 2 ) parties 

represent J . C . Padhlar before me. 
to dispute , which includes employers and workmen , and ( 3 ) 
subject-matter of the dispute , i.e ., the dispute should be 

The issue is decided in favour of the Bank. 
connected with (i ) employment or non -employment, or ( ii ) 
terms of employment, or ( iii ) the conditions of labour. The 11 . Having decided the various legal issues in the pro 
key words of the definition are " dispute " and " Jifference " , ceedings, I will now take up the decision of the remaining 
namely , a controversy connected with employment or non matters in the reference. 
cmployment or with the terms of cmployment elc . in respect 
of which the partics are directly interested in maintaining 

12 . The first question is as to what is the method adopted 
their respective contentions . There is certainly { difference by the Bank for recruitment of permanent employees. The 
between the Bank and J. C . Padhiar us they are sticking to Sastry Award suggested in para 493 " that Banks in their 
their respective contentions about the points in dispute . The own interests should , in case of a reasonable number of 
Bank s stand - point is that J. C . Padhiar was temporury cm vacancies, advertise them and then make appointments after 
ployment from time to time and when the last extension passing the candidates through such tests as they may consider 
came to an end , his appointment came to an automatic end . necessary . " Since the recruitment policy of Banks did not 
J . C . Padhiar s case is that he had served for a total period fall within the ambit of the terms of reference of the 
of 301 days and had become eligible for permanent ahsorp National Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes ) presided over 
tion in terms of the Bank s circular letter . Whether or not, by Justice Desai, his award , vide para 23. 28 mentions that 
J . C . Padhiar s contention is correct, is a matter which can he had no jurisdiction to cntertain he demands in connection 
be decided on merits but it cannot be said that there is no therewith : and declines to give any directions in this 
dispute or difference between him und the Bank . He was regard . The Bank s recruitment policy is not different from 
in employment of the Bank and is not in cmployment since the provisions contained in the Sastry Award . M . V . Sonal 
June 13 , 1972 . The dispute is therefore , regarding " non 

kar MW - 2 has deposed that when the Bank wants to recruit 
employment." The dispute is also in respect of the " terms clerical staff on a permanent basis, advertisements are issued 
of cmployment on the question of permanent absorption in Newspapers and notices are circulated in the branches of 
tinder the circular letter. The words " employment or non 

the Bunk , inviting applications for various posts. These 
employment" are words of the widest amplitude and have applications ATC screened to sort out candidates eligible for 
been put in juxta position to make the definition thoroughly written test. The written test is then held , and one paper is 
comprehensive . In Western India Automobile Association set for English and second for arithmetic , cach carrying 
vs. Industrial Tribunal, 1949 LLJ. 245, the Federal Court 50 marks. A candidate must obtain 40 per cent of marks 
discussed the import of these words and para - phrased the in each paper and an aggregate of 50 per cent in the two 
definition as " any dispute which has connection with the 

10 become qualified to be called at the viva - voce or oral 
workmen being in , or out of service or employment." I am 

test. Those who have qualified at the written test are called 
of the view , therefore , that there is an industrial dispute . 

for the interview . Such of the candidate as qualify at both 
The issue is decided against the Bank . 

the tests , are then cmpanelled in order of merit ; and up 

pointments are made, 99 and when i Vacancy occurs , 
ISSUE NO . 12 

Strictly in order of mcrit. This evidence has remained un 

controverted , Padhiar has not said a word that there is 
Sri R . K . Mukherjee and Sri D . P . Roy appeared before 

any different method of recruitment. I, therefore , hold that 
the Tribunal on December 27 , 1976 to represent J, C . Pachiar 

the Bank recruits permanent cmployees in the manner, stated 
under Section 36 . 

ahovo 
Admittedly , Sri R . K Mukherjee is an 
Advocate . Sri Arun Ray, the Bank s representative . iin 
mediately raised an objection to the appearance of Si R . K . 

12 . The next question is as to whether Padhiar ever 
Mukherjce. Sri D . P . Roy threupon took the stand 

appeared at any such test and ever qualified thereat. He has 

that 
Sri R . K . Mukherjee was entitled to appear because he was 

deposed as WW - t that at the time of his initial appointment 
an Honorary member of the All India United Commercial 

in January , 1971, he had appeared in such a test and was 
given the appointment after he had qualified at that test. 


[art II -- , ( ii)] 

TA TT TIM 
- --7 - - - - 7 T ; - - - - 

- . 7 . . T . - . 
M . l . Somulkin MWP 11,15 denied this lact ind valed that 
no test whatsoever was held , and , ill it matter of fact, a 
Branch Manager , which office he held at Jamshedpur al the 
material time, had no outhonly to hold test for recruit 
mell of imployees for permanent absorption . According to 
laim ; what happened was that there were 3 or 4 candidates 
for temporary appointmen und since he was unable to 
julge which one to proint, he pul 2 or 3 questions in 
writing to cnable him 10 come 10 a decision as to whom 
10 appoint. fle fu her deposed that it was wrong to say 
that it was it regular test or Pudhiar had stood first at any 
such lent and that the appointment was given to him not 
becilline he fact sunlified at any test but because he was 
immediately ( Vailable, as he was residing at Jamshedpur, 
while the other 2 or 3 were not readily available and the 
leniporary Vacancy requied immediate filling up . He has 
then gone on to depose that written anal viva - voce test was 
actually held at Dhanbad in May 1971. Padhiar made an 
application Ext. M - 35 in the prescribed form for permission 
to appear at the test at Dhanbad and his Roll No. was 94. 
He ictually uppered at the test but, as the result- sheet 
Ext. M - 36 would show he failed to qualify at the writien 
Icst and consequently he was ineligible to be called for the 
viva - voce test. Eit. M - 36 shows that he had obtained 9 
marks in English i. e , less than 40 per cent mark ; 18 marks 
in Arithmetic , which was also less than 40 per cent ; 27 
marks in total which wils less than 50 per cent aggregate , 
und that he had failed at the written test. Padhiar does not 
denv his uppearance at the Dhanbad test. It is apparent that 
if he had qualified at the written test and at a viva - voce 
tey at Jamshedpur in January 1971. hc would not have 

speared at the Dhanbad test in May 1971. No one 
will appear at & successive examination if he had passed 
an earlier examination . Padhiar attempted to explain this 
2 way by saying that it was his privilege to appcar at such 
Tests ad infinitum and no one could prevent him from 
appearing . This is hardly a convincing explanation . It appears 
to me that his plou that there was a regular test at Jamshed 
puil is unle , He does not say that a written test was 
followed by viva - voce , and it is these two which are con 
stituent parts of the test. It apptars that Sonulkar had to 
choose one from a batch of 3 or 4 and he only judged their 
prima- racic worth hy an informal test. Padhiar cannot, there . 
fore , claim that he was selected in January 1971 for 
permanent absorption on the basis of a regular test. 

13 . The next question is as to the nalure of his appoint 
ment, i. e., whether notwithstanding non - qualification at any 
fest, he was given u pernianent employment against a 
permanent vacancy , or a temporary employment againsta 
permanent vacancy , or a temporary employment for a fixed 
duration or against a leave vacancy, even though in the 
absence on leave of a permanent employce . Ext. M . 1 (same 
as W - 1 ) is the first letter of appointment. It appears that 
Pudhiar had come to know about a Vacancy and made an 
application for appointment on January 25 , 1971. Ext. M - 1 
sitys " with reference to your application dated 25- 1 - 1971 
we have pleasure in appointing you as a temporary clerk . . , . 
from 28 - 1 - 1971 10 20 - 2 - 1971 . . . . . . . Your uppointment will 
be on a purely lemporary basis and is liable to be termi 
nated at any time in the Bank s discretion without any 
notice or salary thereoſ .. . . . . . If you accept the above 
offer , please return the duplicate of this letter duly signed in 
token of such acceptance ." This temporary appointment was 
extended from 21- 2 - 1971 to 24 - 3 - 1971 on the same tems 
and conditions and he was again asked to return the duplicate 
in token of his acceptance , Sce Ext. M - 2 which is the sanie 
as lyt. W - 2 . Ext. M - 3 ( W - 3 ) shows that he was relieved 
from his service in the afternoon of March 24 , 1971. It 
appears that Padhiar made a fresh application Ext . M -32 on 
13 - 4 - 71 and was appointed by Ext. M - 4 (Ext. W - 4 ) dated 
13- 4 - 71 as a temporary clerk from 13 - 4 - 71 10 30 - 4 - 71 On 
the same terms id conditions as have been referred to above 
in connection with Ext, M - 1. This term was extended from 
1 - 5 - 71 to 7 - 5 - 71 by Ext, M - 5 (W - 5 ) ; from 8 - 5 -71 to 20 - 5 -71 
by Ext. M - 6 ( W - 6 ), and from 21- 5 -71 10 30 - 5 - 71 by Ext. 
M - 7 (W - 7 ) on the same terms and conditiony. He was 
relieved in the afternoon of May 30 , 1971 by Ext , M - 8 ( W - 8 ). 
There was a break of 7 days thereafter , Padhiar made 
another application Ext. M - 33 on 7 -6 - 71 for a fresh appoint 
ment and he was appointed as temporary clerk from 7 -671 
lo 21- 6 - 71 by Ext. M - 9 ( W - 9 ) on the same terms and con 
ditions as are mentioned in Eut, M - 1 und M - 4 . This term 
was extended from 22- 6 - 71 to 24 -6 -71 by Ext. M - 10 (W - 10 ) 
und from 25-6 -71 to 26 -6 -71 hy Ext. N - 11 ( W - 11). He 
80 G1/ 77 . 9 


: ROTETT 21, 1977/avant ? , 1899 

3469 
- - - - 

- - - - - -- 1 . - - - - -- - - - 3 - - - - 
Was fclicica ju the illerden or 26 - 6 -71 by 14 , M - 12 
( W - 12 ). It then appears that he made yet another applica 
tion on 5 - 10 - 71 after a break of a few months for a fresh 
appointment. He was given an appointment as a temporary 
clerk on the basis of that application from 5 - 10 -71 to 5 - 11-71 
by Ev . M - 1,3 ( W - 3 ). Ext, M1- 14 ( W - 14 ) shows that he was 
relieve in tlic afiernoon of 5 - 11 - 71 . He mince yet another 
application for a fresb tenporury ippointment on 5 - 1 - 72 . 
Ext. 11 - 15 ( W - 15 ) shows ihat he was given the lppointment 
is a temporary clerk from 5 - 1 -72 to 20 - 1 - 72 . The terms 
and conditions are the same as mentioned in Ext. M - 1, 
M - 4 and M - 9 . The term was extended from 21- 1 - 72 to 
4 - 2 - 72 hy Ext, M1- 16 ( W - 16 ) ; [rom 5 - 2 - 72 to 19 -2 - 72 by 
Ext. W - 17, ; from 20 - 2 - 72 to 5 - 3 - 72 by Ext. W - 18 ; from 
6 - 3 - 72 to 20 - 3 - 72 by Ext. M - 17 ( W - 19 ) and from 21- 3 -72 to 
4 - 4 - 72 by Ext. M - 19 ( W -21). It then appears that he made 
another applicalion on 20 -4 - 72 for a fresh lemporary ap 
pointment. Ext. M - 20 ( W - 22 ) shows that he was given the 
appointment of a temporary clerk from 20 - 4 - 72 to 19- 5 - 72 
on the terms and conditions mentioned in Ext. M - 1 , M -4 , 
M - 9 and M - 15 . The term was extended from 20 - 5 - 72 to 
12- 6 - 72 by Ext. M -21 ( W - 23 ). Ext. M -22 ( W - 24 ) shows 
that he was relieved on 12 -6 - 72 in the afternoon and no 
appointment was given to him after that date . The above 
narration will show that Padhiar was given appointments 
from time to time ; sometime in continuation ; at times 
after break ; the appointments were for limited periods ; 
the appointments were as a temporary clerk ; and cvery 
time he accepted the imposed terms and conditions . The 
Bank s case is that all those appointments were against leave 
vacancies as a purely temporary measure whereas Padbiar s 
case is that the appointments were undoubtedly temporary 
but these were against permanent vacancies and not against 
leuve vacancies . The Bank has produced the leave records 
of various permanent employces, Ext. M - 24 is in respect 
of Basudev Bhowmick , Ext. M - 25 in respect of Mrs . 
P . $ . Indira , Ext. M . 26 in respect of Mr9. Yogambal 
Parasuraman , Ext. M - 27 in respect of 1 . S . Gopalakrishnan , 
I xt. M - 28 in respect of Mrs. Santham Naraynaswamy. Ext, 
M - 29 in respect of T . N . Upadhaya . Ext. M - 30 in respect 
of K . ( . Dave and Ext. M -31 in respect of N . P . Tripathi. 
Madan Mohan Batra MW - 1 has deposed that Mrs, Santham 
Naraynaswamy was on leave from 25 - 1 -71 to 5 - 3 -71 ; T . N . 
Upadhaya from 11- 3 -71 to 20 - 3 -71 ; 1, S . Gopalakrishnan 
from 22 -3 -71 to 5 - 5 -71 ; Mrs . P . S . Indira from 5 - 4 -71 to 
7 - 5-71 : K , C . Dave from 20 - 4 -71 to 9 - 5 - 71 ; B . N . Bhow 
mick from 7 - 5 -71 to 17 -5 -71 ; N . P . Tripathi from 5 -6 -71 
to 24 -6 -71 ; Mrs . Suntham Naranaswamy from 6 - 10 -71 to 
31 - 3 .72 ; Mrs Yogambal Parasuraman from 18 - 11 -71 to 
21- 12 -71 and from 3 - 1 - 72 to 5 -6 - 72 . He has further deposed 
that this statement of his is based on the leave records 
Eves, M -24 to M - 31 and the Altendance Register Ext. M -23 , 
When one looks into the relevant pages of the Attendance 
Register or the leave l ecords, there is no doubt left that 
the oral testimony of M . M , Batra is amply corroborated 
hy the contemporary documents kept in the regular course 
of business. M . V . Sonalkar MW - 2 is the next witness on 
the nature of the various appointments given 10 Padhiar 
from time to time. whether in continuation or after breaks. 
He was the Branch Manager of the Jamshedpur Branch in 
it major portion at the material time. He has deposed that 
his appointments were in leave vacancies . As against their 
oral evidence , Padhiar as WW - 2 has deposed that his appoint 
ments were against permanent vacancies but the Bank never 
appointed him as a permanent emplolyce against these per 
manent vacancies and he had to take up his grievance with 
the Regional Manager , Patna and the Head Office at Cal 
cutta but he was not favoured with it reply by cither of 
them . 


14 . Now , there are several reasons why I aim of the view 
that Padhiar s appointment was always lemporary , even 
though against a vacancy created by the ubsence on leave 
of a permanent employee . Hirstly , the various letters of 
appointment indicate that (i) the appointments were for 
limited periods, (ii) they were always revocable even during 
the period of the appointments , (ii) the revocation was ab 
solutely at the discretion of the Bank , and (iv ) Padhiar always 
accepted these its terms and conditions of his various appoint 
ments . No one is appointed as a permanent employee for a 
limited period ; no permanent employee s service is revoc 
able in the discretion of the employer ; and no permanent 
employee cup be given a break or breaks from time to time 
at the wbim of the employer . Ext, M - 37 is the standard form 


3470 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVINA 2 , 1899 


[Part II — Sec . 3(ii)] 


- 


- 


- 


of an appointment letter of a permanent employec . It mcn 
Lions that such an appointment is made after a written test 
and interview , the employees are kept on probation for six 
months ; confirmation depends on satisfactory work during 
the period of probation , there is a provision for deposit 
of security for due and faithful performance of duties etc . 
etc . These are different in various aspects from the terms 
and conditions of service of a temporary employee ; and the 
difference will appear from a comparison of Ext . M - 37 , with 
the temporary appointment letter Ext . M - 1 , Secondly, when 
does a permanent vacancy arise ? It would arise in the case 
of superannuation , compulsory retirement due to physical 
imbecility or infirinity etc ., promotion . resignation or death 
etc . It is true that the vacancies were created against perma 
nent posts but the permanent incumbents have not been 
shown to have superannuated , compulsorily retired , promoted 
and confirmed , resigned or died . So the vacancies were 
temporary against permanent posts and the appointment were 
temporary against permanent posts . Padhiar had even to admit 
that he was never appointed permanently . Indeed , Ext. M -34 
shows that Padhiar was appointed in a leave vacancy of 
N . P . Tripathi. Moreover, the management is in a better 
position to know about the nature of vacancies than Padhiar 
and I see no reason why the reliable evidence of two Branch 
Managers should be discarded in preference to the interested 
evidence of Padhiar, Padhiar had admitted in Ext , W -27 that 
he had always been working from time to time in temporary 
appointments . Thirdly , when we look to the definition of 
" permanent employec " , " probationer " , and " temporary cm 
ployees " , it will at once appear that Pudhiar s case in covered 
by the definition of " temporary employee " . The Sustry 
Award define the term " permanent employec" as 
mcuning " an employee who has been appointed 
as slich by the Bank " . See pasa 508( a ) : proba 
tioner " as meaning " an employee who is provisionally em 
ployed to fill a permanent vacancy or post and has not been 
made permanent or confirmed in service." See para 508 ( b ). 
Obviously Pudhiar was not appointed by the Bank as a 
permanent employce as such ; nor was he appointed over to 
lill a permanent vacancy or post but only to fill a temporary 
vacancy caused by the ulgence of a permanent employec 
and such absence cannot be called a permanent vacancy . 
" Temporary employce" has been defined as " an employee who 
has been ippointed for a limited period for work which is 
of an essentially icmporary nature , or who is employed tem 
porarily as full additional employec in connection with a 
Temporary increase in work of a permanent nature ." The 
Desai Award his adopted the definitions contained in the 
Sastry Award in respect of th terms " permanent employee " 
and " probationer " but has ceputed slightly from the defl 
nition of " temporary employee " as contained in the Şastry 
Award . The Degai Award has added the words " an includes 
an employee other than a perinanent employee who is 
appointed in a temporary vacancy of a permanent workman " 
at the ead of the definition in the Susti y Award . The defini 
tion has undergonc a further change in the Bi- partite Settle 
ment between certain Banking Companies and their work 
men , to which thc Bank and its workmen were also parties , 
This settlement was arrived at on the 191h October , 1966 
and is still in force vidc para 27 .7 . The present definition 
of the term " lemporary eniployee " is given in para 20. 7 as 
" a workman who has been appointed for a limited period 
for work which is of an essentially teniporary nature or who 
is employed temporarily as an additional workman in con 
nection with a temporary increase in work of a permanent 
nature and includes a workman , other than a permanent 
workman who is appointed in a temporary Vacancy caused 
by the absence of a particular permanent workman ," Padhiar s 
call is covered by the latter part of the definition as a work 
man other than a permanent workman who was appointed 
from time to time temporary Vacancies caused by the 
absonce of particular permanent workmen . The result is that 
Padbiar was never appointed 39 a permanent employee and 
his various appointments were on purely temporary busis for 
limited periods in temporary vacancies caused by the absence 
of permanent employees , 


the period of such tcmpoſary employment will be taken into 
account as part of his probationery period ." Undoubtedly 
Padhiar was a temporary workman but he was not appointed 
10 fill a permanent vacancy . His appointment was to fill a 
Temporary vacancy . Much streys Was lald on the provision 
that such appointment will not exceed a period of three 
months . Assuming , that it exceeded three months, nothing 
tumg Lipon that because firstly the appointment way not 
to fill a permanent vacancy and secondly because the period of 
three months is like a breathing time given to the Bank to mahe 
arrangements for filling up the vacancy permanently . This 
brcathing time can be used only if there is a permanent 
vacancy requiring filling up ; or otherwise the period of thrce 
months will be irrelevant if there is no such Vacancy requir 
ing filling up. The advantage that a workman gets is reduc 
tion in the period of probation provided he is eventually 
sclected to fill up the permanent Vacancy , Padhiur was not 
eventually selected . It has been mentioned above that he 
had failed to qualify at the written test in May 1971 and 
was not even called for interview that followed the test. 
Paru 20 .9 applies to a temporary workman who was in the 
cmployment of the Bank on Junc 1 , 1965 or after June 1 , 
1965 but ceased to be in service before October 19 . 1966 . 
It is in the case of such an employee that on his applying 
to the Bank before 18 - 1 -67 for employment that tho Bank 
was under an obligation to employ him as a confirmed 
workman irrespective of his qualifications provided he 
satisficd two conditions, namely, that he did not fall within 
the definition of " temporary employce " and that he had , 
on the date he ceased to be in the Bank s service, already 
worked for a continuous period aggregating 240 working 
days ignoring breaks in service not exceeding 15 days at a 
time. Para 20 . 9 does not cover the case of Padhiar because 
( 1 ) he was not in the Bank s service between June 1, 1965 
and October 19, 1966 and, therefore, he cannot be permitted 
to take advantage of 20 . 9 . His services commenced for the 
first time in January 1971 practically 5 or 6 years later. 
Para 20 . 10 says that a temporary workman who was, on 
19 - 10 - 66 , in the Bank s service will be treated as a confirmed 
workman irrespective of his qualifications if he satisfies two 
conditions , namely, that he did not fall within the definition 
of " temporary employee" , and that he had already worked 
for a continuous period aggregating 240 working days ignor 
ing breaks in service not exceeding 15 days at a time. 20 . 10 
applies to a person who was actually in the service of the 
Bank on 19 - 10 -66 . Padhiar cannot take advantage of 20 . 10 
because he joined the Bank s service in 1971. Para 20.11 
says that a temporary workman who was, on 19 - 10 -66 in 
the Bank s service , will, if he is not covered by Para 20 . 10 , 
be taken up on probation if he satisfies three conditions, 
namely , that he docs nol fall within the definition of 
" temporary employee " and that , if in the clerical cudre , he 
is at least a matriculate or its equivalent and that he has 
already worked for a continuous period uggregating 120 days 
ignoring breaks in service not exceeding 15 days at a time. 
Para 20 .11 does not apply to Padhiar because he was not 
in the Bank s service on 19 - 10 -66 . Pára 20 . 12 says that other 
Things being equal, temporary workmen will be given pre 
ference for filling permanent vacancies and if selected they 
may have to undergo probation . Padhiar could have taken 
advantage of Para 20 . 12 if he had been selected and placed 
on probation. HC was never selected and , therefore, para 
20 . 12 also does not help him . 


16 . Padhiar s further cas is that, in any case , he is cligible 
for permanent absorption under the Bank s circular letler 
Ext. M - 38 dated the July , 1972 . He had represented in 
this regard to the Regional Offlce but the Divisional Manager 
hud informed him by the letter Ext, W - 26 dated the 7th 
March , 1973 that he was not entitled to be absorbed in terms 
of this circular . It appears that the question of absorbing 
temporary employees who had served the Bank of were work 
ing in the Bonk for specific periods had been engaging the 
attention of the Bank for sometime and the Bank decided to 
engage some cutegories of employees and / or confirm them in 
certain circumstances . Decision No . 1 of the Bank was that 
" all temporary employees who are working at the branches / 
Head office from or after 1st January , 1970 for a period of 
240 days or more , between 1st January 1970 and 30th Nov 
ember , 1971 , with or without break in their services, irres 
pective of the nature of vacancies against which they had 
worked , notwithstanding their positions in the written test 
in which thoy might or might not have appeared , shall be 
treated as confirmed cmployees of the Bank with effect from 
1st January 1972," The question is whether Padhiar s case is 


15 . Padhiar s case is that he was eligible for adsorption 
as a permanent employee in terms of para 20 . 8 to 20 . 12 . 
Para 20. 8 says that " a temporary workman may also be 
appointed to fill a permanent vacancy provided that such 
temporary Appointment shall not exceed a period of thrce 
months during which the Bank shall make arrangements for 
filling up the vacancy permanently . If such a temporary 
workman is eventually sected for filling up the vacancy , 


[HTT 11- - 003 3 (ii ) ] 


ATT HIT Tel : for 


24, 1977 /arfnah 2, 1899 


3471 


-- - 


- - 


. 


Bank could huve given him that appointment in that vacancy . 
His cross cxamination shows that his source of knowledge ro 
garding the aforesaid discriminations is based on the informa 
tion collected by him from the said employees. M . V . 
Sonalkar MW - 2 has no hoowledge about these as he was trans 
ferred from the Main Branch elsewhere. I do not think 
there is any substance in the point raised by Padhiar . So far 
as he is concerned, bis case is evident on the record . Ho 
has not examined any of the said workmen to explain or give 
details and particulars of the facts as to how their cases are 
similar to the case of Paghiar . The Bank has been denied an 
opportunity to test the veracity of Padhiar s ipse dixit. Padhiar 
himself has not given the details and particulars of the infor 
mation received to exhibit the manner in which his cuse is 
similar to theirs . It is possible that their cases are covered 
by the circular letter , or they appeared at the test and quali 
fied ctc . etc. So far us S . C . Chabra is concerned , no grouse 
can be made if his post in the Mango Branch was allowed to 
remain vacant and was not filled up . 

18 . My award is that the management of the Bank in 
terminating the services of Pudhiar with effect from the 13th 
June, 1972 is justilled and he is not entitled to any relief. 
Pashupathi Nath Singh has not appeared to challenge the 
Bank s contention and my award in respect of him is that 
the management of the Bank was justified in terminating his 
services with effect from 26th July, 1973 and he is not en 
titled to any relief in respect of that termination , 

K . B . SRIVASTAVA , Presiding Officer . 

[No. 1.- 12012 / 140 / 73- LR . III /DIL. A .) 


covered by Decision No. 1. In considering his case , breaks 
in service , nature of vacancics , l esult of written test shall 
have to be ignored but what cannot be ignored is work for 
a period of at least 240 days and these 240 days must occur 
between 1 - 1 -70 and 30 -11 - 71 . There is no dispute that he 
worked during the aforesaid period as follows : ( I ) 28 - 1 -71 
to 24 - 3 -71, ( 2 ) 13 - 4 -71 tu 30 - 5 -71. ( 3 ) 7 -6 -71 to 26 -6 -71 and 
( 4 ) 5 - 10 - 71 to 5 -11-71. The total period of service during 
the aforesaid specified period was only 156 days which is 
much less than 240 days, Decision No . 2 says that : " all 
temporary employees whosc services were terminated but who 
had put in aggregate service of 240 days or more in the Bank , 
letween 1st January 1970 and 30th November 1971 , with or 
without break in their services , irrespective of the nature of 
vacancies against which they had worked , notwithstanding 
their positions in the written test in which they might or 
might not have appeared , will be offered cmployment in 
the Bank , provided they submit their applications for appoint 
ments in the Bank on or before 31st July , 1972 . " Decision 
No. 2 applies to the case of an employee who had put in ut 
least 240 days between 1- 1 - 70 and 30 - 11 - 70 but whose ser 
vices had been terminated . In their cuscs also , breaks in 
service, nature of vacancies and result of written test will be 
ignored but what cannot be ignored is work for 240 days 
between 1 - 1 -70 and 30 -11 -71 and the making of an applica 
tion before 31 - 7 - 72. Pachiar had not worked for 240 days 
during the said period and what is more , it is not his case that 
he had made any application before July 31, 1972 . His 
case , therefore , is not covered by Decision No. 2 also . Decision 
No. 3 says that " all temporary employces who are working 
or had worked for 91 days or more but less than 120 days 
without break in permanent vacancies or those who are 
working or had worhed for 120 days or more but less than 
240 days with or without break in permanent vacancies only , 
during the period between 1st January 1970 and 30th Novem 
ber 1971, will also be offered employment in the Bank after 
Appropriate scrutiny of thcir applications by the concerned 
Assistant General Managers and Head Office. These appli 
cations will be receivel upto 31st July , 1972 by the Branches 
where they had previousſy worked. The dates of confirma 
tion of these employees under the above clauses would be 
Arrived ut in the manner provided in clauses ( a ) or (b ) or 
( c ) of the circular letter . Decision No. 3 can be split up in 
two parts . The first part provides that there must be a ser 
vice of at least 91 days, such service of 91 days must be 
without brcak , such service must be against permanent vacan 
cy and if these conditions are fulfilled an application must be 
made for permanent absorption before July 31, 1972 . Padhiar s 
Rervices were not against permanent vacancies and he never 
made any application . His case is, therefore , not covered by 
tho first part. The second part requires a service of at least 
120 days between 1st January 1970 and 30th November, 
1971 against permanent vacancy only and provided applica 
lion was made to the Branch Manager by July 31, 1972 . In 
considering a casc under part 2 breaks in service will be 
disregarded but what cannot be disregarded is work for 120 
days , work in a permanent vacancy , and making of an appri 
cation . Padhiar had not worked in a parmanent vacancy and 
had not made any application . His case is thus not covered 
by Part 2 also of Decision No . 3. His main argument is 
that the Bank s decisions are arbitrary but such an argument 
docy not lie in his mouth . The Bank s regular method of 
appointment is qualification at a test. It is by way of con 
cession that it wanted to give advantage of permanent service 
to certain old employces provided they fulfilled certain condi 
tions. No one can dictate that more concessions should have 
been given . I, therefore , ignore this argument. The result 
is that Padhiar s contention that he is eligible for absorption 
under the circular is not well-founded . 


New Delhi, the 9th September, 1977 
S . O . 3000 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Dis 
putes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby 
publishes the following award of the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in the industrial dispute between 
the employers in relation to the management of Bank of 
Baroda and their workmen , which was received by the Cent 
ral Government on the 2nd September , 1977 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT TRIBUNAL 

AT BOMBAY 
Reference No. CGIT . 42 of 1975 
Enipfoyers in relation to Bank of Baroda . 

AND 

Their Workmen . 
APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers. — Shri L , C . Joshi, Legal Adviser. 
For the Workmen ... . Shri H . K . Sowani, with General 

Secretary of the Union , 


INDUSTRY. Banking. 


STATE : Maharashtra . 


Bombay , the 11th July , 1977 

AWARD 
The Central Government has referred the following disputo 
for adjudication by this Tribunal, 

SCHEDULE 


17 . The last contention of Padhiar is that the Bank s action 
huy been highly discriminatory and arbitrary in absorbing 
others permanently , though they were similarly situated as 
him , and in disregarding his own case for permanent absorp 
tion . He has deposed that one Pannalar, Surendra Kumar and 
Digambar Prasad , clerks in the Berino Brunch , whose cases 
were similar to his own , were made permanent by the Bank 
by catering into a settlement with them during conciliation 
proceedings before the A . L . C ., Hazaribagh . He has further 
deposed that R . P . Sinha , Ram Bahadur and Pashupathi Nath 
Singh were retained in service and subsequently confirmed , 
though they were similarly situated as him , while his ser 
vices were terminated . He has then stuted that one S . C . 
Chabra was transterred from the Mango Brunch at Jamshed 
pur to the Main Brunch at thut very place but luy post in the 
Munge Branch was allowed to remain vacant although the 


" Whether the action of the munagement of the Bank of 

Baroda , Bombay in transferring Shri R . P . Desai, 
Cashier of the Marine Drive Branch of the said 
Bank to Sion Branch of the said Bank is justified ? 

If not, to what rollef ls the said workman entitled ? " 
After the filing of the written statement of claim by the 
Union and the wsitten statement and rejoinder by the Bank , 
the matter was fixed for hearing on a number of occasions, 
but was adjourned on one or another ground . However , the 
parties have now filed a joint upplication stating that they 
have settled thc dispute out of Court and pray that this 
Hon ble Tribunal be pleased to inake No dispute award , in 
the reference . 

Under the circumstances , I make my award in terms of 
the above request of the above parties and answer accordingly , 

J. NARAIN , Presiding Officer. 
[F . No . L -12012 /99 / 75-D .11.A .] 


-- 


- 


3472 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977 /ASVINA 2 , 1899 [PART II - SEC , 3(1 )] 
- - - - 

- - - - 

= - 

- - - - --- 
S . O . 3001. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Dis 

AWARD 
putes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby 
publishes the following award of the Central Government In 

The Central Government has referred the following dispute 
dustrial Tribunal, Bombay in the industrial dispute between 

for adjudication by this Tribunal. 
the employers in relation to the management of Bank of Ba 

SCHEDULE 
roda and their workmen , which was received by the Central 
Government on the 2nd September , 1977 . 

" Whether the action of the management of the lile In 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

surance Corporation of India in terminating the sci 
TRIBUNAL AT BOMBAY 

vices of the following six architectural Assistants is 

justified ? If not, to what relief ille the said six 
Reference No. CGIT -44 of 1975 

workmen entilled ? " 
Employers in relation to Bank of Baroda . 

1. Miss Vinava Rameshchandra . 
AND 

2 . Miss Sunanda Chitre . 

3. Shri V . K . Datar, 
Their workmc ). 

A , Shri S . K , Taci. 
APPEARANCES : 

5 . Shri A . K . Mukherjcc . 
For the Employers. - Shri L . Ç . Joshi, Legal Adviser. 

6 . Shri V , N . Acharya . 
For the Workmen . - Shri H . K , Sowani, with General 
Secretary of the Union . 

After the filing of the written statements etc. by the politics, 

the matter was fixed for hearing on a number of occasions and 
INDUSTRY : Banking, 

STATE : Maharashtra . 

was adjourned on one or another ground . However, on the 

date of hearing i. . . on 19 - 7 - 1977 thc pacties filed a Settlement 
Bombny , cated the 11th July , 1977 

dated 5 - 7 - 1977 ( Annexure - 1 ) artived at helween them and 
AWARD 

prayed that this Hon ble Tribunal be plenscd to make award 

in terms of the settlement. I find the terms of settiement fair 
The Central Government has referred the following dispute and reasonable and make my award accordingly . Under the 
for adjudication by this Tribunal. 

circumstances no Order as to the costs is being made. 
SCHEDULE 

J. NARAIN , Presiding Officer. 
" Whether the action of the management of the Bank of 
Baroda , Bombay in transferring Shri Anil P , Shah 

ĮF. No. L - 17011 / 10 /74 1.R .I /DJI A ) 
from Churchgate Branch of the said Bank to Chanda 
varkar Road Branch , Matunga , Bombay of thç said 
Bank is justified ? If not , to what relict is the said 

S . O . 3003 . In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrin 
workman entitled ? " 

Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 

hereby publishes the following award of the Central Gov 
After the filing or written statement of claim by the Union , 

emment Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in the industrial dis 
und the written statcment and rejoinder by the Bank, the 

pute betweco the employers in relation to the Life Insurance 
matter was fixed for hearing on a number of occasions, but 

Corporation of India , Bombay and their workoon , which was 
will adjourned on one or another ground . However, the 

received by the Central Government on the 5th September , 
parties have now filed a joint application stating that they 

1977. 
have settled the disputo out of Court and prayed that thjs 
Hon ble Tribunal be pleased to make No dispute award , in 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
the dispute , 

TRIBUNAL AT BOMBAY 
Under the circulinstances, I make my award in terms of 
above request of the parties and answer the reference accor 

Reference No. CGIT -20 of 1975 
dingly . 

PARTIES : 
New Delhi, the 12th September, 1977 

Employers in relation to Life Insurance Corporatlon of 
J. NARAIN , Presiding Oncer . 

India , Bombay. 
[F . No. 1.- 12012 / 101 / 75-DILAJ 

AND 
New Delhi, the 12th September , 1977 

Their workmen . 
S . O . 3002. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Dis APPEARANCES : 
putes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby 
publishes the following award of the Central Government In 

For the Employers . - 1. Shri A . W . Dharwadker, Adve 
dustrial Tribunal, Bombay in the industrial dispute betucen 

cate , 2 . Shri Y . Ramachandran , Administration 
the employers in relation to the I ife Insurance Corporation of 

Officer, Life Insurance Corporation , 3 . Shri P . T , 
India and their workmen , which was received by the Central 

Kini, HGA , Life Insurance Corporation . 
Government on the 5th September, 1977. 

For thc Workmen . - 1 . Shri M . P . More , Advocatç , 2 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT LABOUR 
COURT AT BOMBAY 

Shri A . S . Deo , Member Managing Committee , 3. 

Shri V . R . Deshpande, President, Bombay Division 
Reference No. CGIT - 17 of 1975 

Insurance Workers Organisation , 4 . Shri S . D . 

Kulkarni, General Secretary , Bombay Division 117 
· Employers in relation to the Life Insurance Corporation 

surance Workers Organisation , 5. Shri M . B . Sopari. 
of India , 

wala , President, Insurance Employees Association 

6 . Shri V . B . Kathuria , General Secretary , Insur: 
AND 

ance Corporation Employees Union, Bombay . 


Their Workmen . 


INDUSTRY : Inşurance , 


STATE : Afahvashtra 


APPEARANCES : 


For the Employers .- - Shri P . T. hini, H .G .A . 
For the Workmen . - Shri C . S . Deshpande, General Secre 

tary , All India Employed Architects Union . 
INDUSTRY : Insurance. 

STATE : Maharashlja . 
Bombay, the 19th July, 1977 


Bombay, the 15th August, 1977 

AWARD 
The Central Government by a notification dated the 11t1 
April , 1975 in exercise of the powers conferrel by clause 
( dl ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Dis 
pilies Act, 1947 has referred the following dispute for adju 
dication . 


w Il- - 3 ( 11) ] HT77 Fir TTT : ATHY 21, 1977 /210ah ?, 1899 

3.473 
- - - - - - - -- - - -- - - - - - - . . - .. - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - . 
SCHEDULE 

surance Employees Association and Insurance Corporation 

Employees Union . 
" Whether the action of the Management of the Life 
Insurance Corporation of India in discontinuing the 

7 . Their case is that Thana , Dombivili, Kalyan , Amburnath , 
City Compensaling Allowance to all the Class III Ulhasnagar elc . from one compactarer linked to Bombay 
and Class IV cmployecs of Ulhasnagar Brunch with City proper by suburban trains. This is said to have becn 
effect from the 1st October , 1975 is justlied ? If recognised by the Corporation itself as will aprear from their 
not to what ielicf are the said workmen entitled ? " Bombay Divisional Oflice , Development Department Memo 

data 17 - 2 - 1972. Iluns as follows : 
2 . It seems that there has been a slight typographical 
crror in the schedule published in the Gazette of Indiat noti 

" We have to inform you that the population of Kalyan 
fication in that for the year 1974 what has been typed is 

Municipality is 99, 547 according to the 1971 cen 
1975. All the partics are agreed that it is a typographical 

sils . We have further to advise you that Kalyan . 
mistahe and its such would take it that the rclevant date 

forms part and parcel of Ulhasnagar urban agglo 
is the 1st of October, 1974 . 

incrution having it total population of 3, 96, 384 and 

for the purpose of determining the minimum busi 
3 . The Life Insurance Corporation of India ( licreinille 

ness quarantee applicable to agents operations in 
Icfcured lo as the Corporation ) is a statutory linancial insti 

any of the component towns of Ulhasnagar urban 

agglomeration , the population of Ulhasnagar Uiban 
tution set up under the Life Insurance Corporation 1ct, 1956 . 
Under section 19 the Corporation may with the previous p . 

agglomeration is to be taken into account. Further 

the Ulhasnagar notified area has a population 

the 
proval of the Central Government by notlication in 

of 

1 ,68, 462 while the Ulhasnagar Urban agglomcration 
Gazette of India makc regulations not inconsistent with the 

hasil population of 3, 96 , 384 ( this figure includes 
Act and the rules made thereunder . Sub -section 2 ( b ) Say s 
that such a regulation may provide for the method of rec 

the population of Ulhasnagar notitied urca . ) " 
ruitment of employees and agents of the Corporation and 
the terms and conditions of service of such mployees or 

The Association says that the above shows that the Core 
agents . In conscquence ( Stall ) Regulations 1961 came to 

porotion have recognised in reality that Kalyan is it part 
bc framed . It applies to every whole - time ( saluricul ) cmp 

and parcel of Ulhasnagar urban agglomeration which has a 
loyce of the Corporation ( in India ) " unless otherwise pro 

population of 3 , 96 , 384 . The Corporation implemented clause 
vided by the terms of any contract, agreement or letter of 

$ of the settlement dated 24 - 1- 1974 relating to Compensa 
appointment. The Regulation provides for City Compcn 

tory City Allowance and paid arrears of the difference bet 
satory Allowance of Rs. 10 per month for 16 cities " onc 

ween the then prevailing rate and the revised rate of Rs. 20 
of which is Bombay. In 1972 names of six more cities were 

per month with effect from 26 - 7 - 1973 , the rate when Ulhas 
added ( vide Fxhibit 1. - 2 ) by an amendment to the regula 

nagar branch came into existence to all employees at Ilhas 
tion ( vidc Exhibit [ - 3 ) . The amount of Rs. 10 was raised 

wagar hranch , The Corporation continued to do so upto 
to Rs. 20 by an amendment of the Regulation . The increase 

15- 10 - 1974 Stoppage of the same with cffcct from 15 - 10 - 74 
was published in the Gazette of India dated 4 - 5 - 1974 . A 

is said to be unjustifiedi, arbitrary and illegal for the follow 
Settlement is also arrived at hetween the life lolliance Coi 

ing reasons : 
poration of India and the diffcrcnt Associations representing 

( a ) It is a breach of the settlement dated 24 - 1 -1974 
its workmen on 24 - 1 - 1974 and this settlement was to be 

which is still in force . 
ellective from the 1st April, 1973 for a period of 4 years . 
Regarding City Compensatory Allowance the following 

( b ) It is in contravention of section PA of thc Indus 
ettlement was arrived at City Compensatory Allowance 

trial Disputes Act, 1947 , read along with item 1 
shall be paid at the rate of Rs. 20 per month in the case 

of thc 41h schedule , in as much as the Corporation 
of Class III and Class IV employees in the centres ill which 

has failed to give any due notice of chance before 
his allowance is now being paid to such employees . If iind 

discontinuing the allowance . 
when the Central Government extends the benefit of City 
Conipensatorv Allowance to other centres, the Corporation 

( C ) Employees of Ulhasnagar branch have come to 
shall extend ihis bcnctil to the employees in such entres also ." 

regard City Compensatory Allowance as a part of 
( vide Exhibit U - 3 ) . 

their service condition . 
4 . A settlement was arrived at before the National Indus 

( d ) The Corporation s contention that payment of City 
rial Tribunal between the Corporation and the villerent 

Compensatory Allowance to employces of Ulhasnagar 
Associations and Federations representing the workers of the 

branch wus through it regrettable crror is an incrc 
Corporation and the memorandum of selllcnicnl is cated 

dible after -thought, 
The 20th June 1970 ( vide Exhibit ( 1- 2 ) . The representatives 
of the Associations which were parties to the settleinent before 

( e ) Ulhasnagar and Kalyan form onc compact area in 
The National Industrial Tribunal hud some discussions with 

the metropolitan city of Bombay. 
the Corporation authorities and accordingly a circular was 
issued on 29- 1 - 1971 to all officers of the Corporation ( vide 

8 . The Life Insurance Corporation of India filed its written 
Exhibit E - 1 ). It set out the limits of different metropolitan 

statement and has taken the position that the terms and 
cities where City Compensatory Allowance was rayable those 

conditions of employees of the Corporation can be regula 
duys Bombay was shown is comprising of the areils within 

to only by Regulations made under section 44 of the Life 
tho limits of the Bombay Municipal Corporation , Dombivli, 

Insurance Corporation Act. Such i regulation has been 
Kalyan und Thun : Municipalities. This circular was issued 

framed which is Life Insurance Corporation of India ( Staff ) 
over the signature of Executive Director to all offices of 

Regulation 1960 . Since Ulhasnagar is not one of the con 
the Corporation . 

tres figuring in the list of centres where City Compensatory 

Allowance was available or cxtended , claim made on behalf 
5 . Above gives a short history indicating how compensa 

of the Ulhisnagur employees is strongly resisted . It is ad 
tory allowance came to be increased from time to time and 

mitted that City Compensatory Allowance wis paid to the 
how the area of Bombay was delineated . With the above employees at Ulhasnagar branch but the contention is that 
background I shall now set out the facts of the che and 

ils soon as this irregular and erroneous payment came to 
rival contentions of the parties . There was a Brunch Olice 

the notice of thc conipelent authority , the branch office with 
of the Corporation at Kalyan . It was bifurcated on the directed to discontinue this payment with effect from 1 - 10 - 74 . 
26th July , 1973 and there came into being what is known 

Any unauthorised payment made cannot Vest any right in 
as Ulhasnugar branch with it strength of 15 (or class III and 

the employees . Payment of City Compensatory Allowance at 
class IV employecs . The staff of this bunch was manned Ulhasnagar having been mude crroncously , it cannot trans 
by transfer of 7 employees from Kalyan branch , 5 employees 

form itself into a condition of service and therefore there 
som Bombay Divisional Office and l employee from Pen 

is no question of contravention of section 9A of the Indus 
Branch . Two class IV employees were newly recruited . AJ 

trial Disputes Act. Question of population at Ulhasnagar 
These employees were being pait City Compensatory Allow 

and Kalyan is said to he irrelevant since thc Corporation by 
" nce right from the date the Ulhasnagar brunch came into 

its circular dated 29 - 1 - 1971 specified the 16 centres including 
xistence. It wils, houver, stoppel with office from the 15th 

Kalyu il which City Compensatory Allowance would be 
dober , 1974 , 

pilyable and defined ilue" limil ol Bombay Municipality in 

including only Kalyan. Turisdiction of this Tribunal to enter 
6 . The case of the employees of Ulhasnagar hanch had tain a claim for payment of City Compensatory Allowance 
been sponsored by two employees Associations, nanicly In is also challenged . 


- 


- 


3474 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977 /ASVINA 2, 1899 [Part II — SEC . 3( 11 ) ] 
-- - - - - - 

- - 
9 , Enclosure to the forwarding letter [ xhibit U - 1 is the IV employees were icclvited . All these persons were paid 
transfer order of one of the employees nainely , Shri G . P . City Compensatory Allowance from the 26th July, 1973 till 
Ahuja from Kalyan branch to Ulhasnagar branch and the the 15th October , 1974 , as stated in the written statement 
Bank s order is dated 18 -7 - 1973 and is signed by of the Insurance Employees Association . In the confirma 
Senior Divisional Manager. Exhibit U -4 dated 20- 3 -74 is tion letter that was issued to the Peon , Shri R . P . Dabak 
the confirmation order over the signature of Senior Divi cleur mention was made of his cntitlement to City Com 
sional Manager . It says that the Peon Shri R . P . Dabak pensatory Allowance of Rs. 20 por month . This City 
is being confirmed and his sulary will consist of besides Compensatory Allowance was il condition of service ind if 
other allowances City Compensatory Allowance of Rs. 20 the Corporation proposed to stop it , it was incuinbent on 
per month 

then to issue a notice in terms of section 94 of the lodus 

trial Disputes Act. 
10 . It has been strenuously algued for the Corporation 
that since Ulhasnagar is not named as one of the cities 

13. Although it was urged that Compensatory Allowance 
in the Staff Regulation or in the subsequent umendments 

has been paid to the cmployees at Ulhasnagar branch by 
thereof nor in any of the Settlements arrived at between mistake, this has remained a mere submission . Nothing hus 
the parties, claim of City Compensatory Allowance for been disclosed to show the person or persons who were res 
Ulhasnagar is untenable. Further contention is that the ponsible for this mistake and what step , if iny, was then 
regulation frumed under section 49 of the Life Insurance against the concerned Officer . Therefore , it is difficult for 
Corporation has statutory force and unless an amendment as me to uphold this submission . 
contemplated by section 49 is made no office order can huvc 
any effect in law . From this point of view it has been urged 

14 . Again , nothing has been pointed to show as to how 
that mention of City Compensatory Allowance in the con 

jurisdiction of this tribunal to cntcitain the claim is brico 
firmution order , Exhibit U - 4 can have no force in law . 11 

nor do I find any . 
is also contended that even if the order was issued over the 

15 . No substance having been found in any of the con 
signature of the Senior Divisional Manager , since it was not 

tentions raised and the claim of thc workers being founded 
in pursuance of the staff regulation 1960 Or amendment 

on the settlement, which is quite legal, il inust be stated 
thereof it has no force in law and cannot coníer any right 

that action of the management in discontinuing the City 
on the employees . The point , however, to be noticed is that 

Compensatory allowance to all the Class II anl Class IV 
clause 2 of the Stuff Regulation itself speaks of the validity 

cmployees of Ulhasnugar Branch with cffect from the Ist 
of an agreement. I have already referred to the agreeincnt, 

October , 1975 is not justified and they are entitled to the 
Exhibit U - 3 that was arrived at on 24 - 1 - 1974 between the 

City Compensatory Allowance from 15 - 10 - 1974 at the rate 
Corporation on the onc hand and the 4 cmployees Asso 

of Rs. 20 per month . 
ciations on the other. This agrecment is contemplated by 
thc Staff Regulations 1960 and it must have ftill effect in 

J. NARAIN , Presiding Onicer 
law . Clause 5 of this ugrcement speaks of payment of City 
Compensatory Allowance at the centres at which the allow 

IF . No. 1.- 17029 / 1 / 75 -D .111.1 
ance way then being paid . At that time City Compensatory 
Allowance was being paid at Kalyan branch , Payment of 

New Delhi, the 14th September, 1977 
Kalyan branch was being done as a result of discussion bet 
ween the representatives of the Associations of Workers and 

S . O . 3004 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Dis 
the Corporation in connection with the settlement dated putes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby 
20 -6 - 1970 filed before the National Industrial Tribunal. As publishes the following award of the Central Goycrnment Indus 
a result of this discussion certain igrcements were arrived trial Tribunal, Bombay in the industrial dispute between the 
at and one of these was that Bombay will comprise the cmployers in relation to the Life Insurance Corporation of 
areas witbin the limits of Bombay Municipal Corporation India and their workmen , which will received by the Central 
(Grcuter Bombay ) , Dombivli , Kalyan and Thana Munici 

Government on the 8th September , 1977. 
palities ( vide Exhibit E - 1 ) . Next it is for consideration 

BEFORE TIIF CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
whether Ulhasnagar which came to be bifurcalel from Kalyan 
later will be deemed to have been covered by this agree 

TRIBUNAL , BOMBAY . 
ment or not. In this connection there is the document of 

Reference No. CGIT -21 of 1975 
the Corporation itself namely , their Divisional Office Deve 
lopment Department memo dated 17 - 2 - 1972 , which has al 

1:inployers in relation 10 the life Insurance Corporation 
ready been reproduced . above . This shows that even according 

of India . 
to thọ Corporation , Kalyan is a part and parcel of Ulhasnagar 
and therefore when the Settlement dated 29- 1 -1971 ( vide 

AND 
Exhibit F - 1 ) speaks of Kalyan it must be held that it includes 
also Ulhasnagar which camc laler to be bifurcated from it. 

Their Workmeo . 

APPEARANCES : 
11. The matter can be looked at from another point of 
view . When the settlement, Exhibit U - 3 was signed on tho 

For the employers - Shri P . T . hini, H . 6 . A . 
24 - 1 - 1974 it was clearly stated that the City Compensatory 
Allowance will be payable at the centres at which it was 

For the workmen - Shui C . S . Deshpande , General Secre 
then being paid . It will be noticed that tho. " centre " has 

tilly , All India Employee Architects Union . 
heen lised insteud of the word " city " which occurs in the 
earlier settlement. So when the settlement, Exhibit U - 3 was INDUSTRY : Insurance . 

STATE · Maharashtra . 
entered into the City Compensatory Allowance was being 
paid at the centre of Ulhasnagar and therefore under the 

Bombay, dated the 19th July , 1977 
settlement it will continue to be paid there and to such a 
settlement the Corporation was a party and hence bound by 

AWARD) 
it . For the Corporation my attention was drawn to clause 
12 ( 2 ) of the settlement. It says that the terms in this 

The Central Government has referred the following displice 
settlement shall be subjcct to the approval of the Board of 

for adjudication by this fribuna ). 
the Corporation and Central Government. It is not clear 

SCHEDULE 
what is meant by referring to this clausę. Anyway. it is 
not the contention of the Corporation that the settlement has 

" Whether the action of the management of the Lifc Insu 
not received the approval of the Board of the Corporation 

rance Corporation of India in terminating the strvices 
and the Central Government. Therefore , there is nothing to 

of Shri G , S . Deshpande , Architect Assistant with 
(letract the settlement, Fxhibit (1 - 3 from having its full effegt 

ellect from the 31st July , 147 -1, is justified ? If 101, 10 
in law . 

what relief is he entilled ? " 


12. While stating the facts of the case I have stated how 
the staff at Ulhasnukar wils naid City Compensatov Allow . 
unce. The statl consisted of truntar ul 7 cruribuyees from 
the Kulyan branch , $ employees from the Bombay Divisional 
Office and onc cmployed from the Pen branch . Two class 


Aflei the filing of the written statements , etc ., by the parties 
the matter was fixed to bring on a number of occasions and 
WuS ljuulimud on 0116 another thinit, Iluweel . Uit The 
cate of hearing it on 19 - 7 - 1077, the pilities lilęd i selllement 
cated 5 - 7 - 1977 ( Annexure -l ) rived at helveen them and 


- - - - 


ग [[ - - वार 3 ( ii) ] भारत का गजान मितम्बर , 1977/ आशियन , 189 ) 

3475 
- - . - . : - -- - - -- - 

-- - - - - : = = 
yed that this Hon blc Tribuna ] be pleased to make : Ward in मंघटक पूजा को उतारने सीमाशुल्क विमान पल । । 
ns of the settlement. I lind the terms of the scilement ill 

रूप में नियत करती है । 
: d at hy the partics fait and reasonahl:: 171 l make my 
ard accordingly . Under the circunstances 10 order is to 

- [मं . 202/ फा . मा . 488/ 52/ 17- सी श;7 ] 
1s is beillg inade . 
J . NARAIN, Presiding Officer 

न. कृष्णापुर्ती , अबर गमिव 
[ F. No L - 17911 /11 / 74-LR.I / D .II . A. ] 
JAGDISHI PRASAD , Under Secy , 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

(Department of Revenue ) 

New Delhi, the 24th September , 1977 
विस मंत्रालय 

CUSTOMS 
( राजस्व विभाग ) 

S . 0 . 3005. — In exercise of the powers conterred by clause 
नई दिल्ली, 24 सितम्बर, 1977 

( a ) of section 7 of the Customs Act, 1962 ( 52 of 1962 ), the 

Central Government hereby anpoints Bangalore airport 25 
सीमा - शुल्क 

customs airport for the unloading of watches and compo 

nent parts of watches. 
का . आ . 3005. - मीमाशल्क अधिनियम , 1962 (1962 का 52 ) 
की धारा 7 के खंड ( क) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयांग करने हार 

[ Notification No. 202 / F. No. 181 / 52 / 77 -Cus . VII ] 
केन्द्रीय सरकार बंगलोर विमान पत्तन घाइयाँ शार पड़ियों के 

N . KRISHNAMURTHY, IInder Sccy. 


Hi Ri i TRIAT , 


LIBRA 


TRAL 


ENT 


L . GOVE 


wwwarenes 


. . . . .- - - - 


- 


. 


PRINTED BY THE MANAGER, GOVT . OF INDIA PRESS , RINO ROAD, NEW DELHI- 110064 

AND PUBLISHED BY THE CON T ROLI,LR OF PUBLICATIONS. DELIII - 110054 , 1977 


