PINARY 


REGISTERED No. D . 222 


. o . 


- 





Locká 


The Gazette 


of India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 12 , 1956 


= 


No. 7 ] 


Non 


NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 5th February 1955: — 
lugue No. and date Issued by 

Subjec 
No , 
13 No. 78 ( 1 ) T . B . / 54 , dated the Ministry of Commerce and Resolution on the Tariff Commission s 
2nd February 1955 , Industry. 

report relating to the Dyestuff Indus 

try . 
No. 78 ( 1) T .B . / 54 , dated the 

Ditto . 

Rates of customs duty leviable on cer 
2nd February 1955 . 

tain articles when imported into 

India or into the State of Pondicherry . 
14 No. 3 -ITC ( P .N .) / 55 , dated the 

Ditto . 

Import of Caustic Soda [ S . No. 22 (a ) of 
3rd February 1955 . 

Part V ] during the licensing period 

January - June 1955 . 
No. 4 -ITC ( P .N .) / 55, dated the 

Ditto . 

Import policy for light Soda Ash ( s . 
3rd February 1955 . 

No . 28 / V of the I. T .C . Schedule.) 
No. 5 - ITC ( P .N .) /55 , dated the 

Ditto . 

Import policy for Sodium Bicarbonate 
3rd February 1955 . 

( S . No . 22 / V of the I. T . C . Schedule ) 
for the licensing period January - June 

1955 . 
15 NO . 6 - ITC ( P . N .) / 55 , dated the 

Ditto . 

Import of Urea , Ammonium Sulphate / 
4th February 1955. 

Nitrate and Nitrochalk falling under 
[ S . No. 40 ( e ) / V ] Nitrogenous Ferti 

lizers . 
16 No. 7-ITC (P .N .)/ 55, dated the 

Ditto . 

Import of Diesel Engines of Road 
5th February 1955. 

Vehicular type falling under [ S . No, 
30 ( e ) / II) for the period January 
June 1955 . 


Coples of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on Indent to the Manager of Publications 
Civil Lines. Delhi, Indents should be submitted 40 to roach to Manager within ton days of the date of 19gue of 
these Gazettes, 


Pagny 


99 - 110 


31 -- 45 


69 — 84 


PART 1 - SECTION 1 Nottiendono roladny to 

Non - Statutory Rula , Rogalations and 
Orders and Ranolutions inued by the 
Ministries of the Government of India 
(other than the Minlstry of Defence ) 

and by the Supreme Court ... ... 
PART | - - SECTION 1 . - Notifications regarding 

Appointments , Promotions , Lavo , 
ato . of Government Offiluen fosund 
by tho Ministries of the Government 
of India ( other than the Minlotry of 

Defonco ) end by the Supreme Court 
PART 1 - SBCTION 3 . - Notifications relating 

to Non -Statutory Rule , Regulation , 
Order and Rosolutions issued by tho 

Ministry of Defence . .. - 
PART 1 - SECTION 4 . - Notfications regarding 

Appointments , Promotions, Leave , 
otc ., of Ofiocre losued by the Ministry 

of Defence 
PART II - SBOTION 1. - Acts, Ordinanca 

Regulations 
PART II SECTION 2 . - Buils nad Roport 

Select Committees on Bila 
PART II - SACTION 3 . - Statutory Rules and 

Orders nocífied by the Ministries of 
tbo Government of ladle , orber than 
the Ministry of Defence , and Central 
Authorities, other than tho chied 

Commarlonct 
PART II - SBOTION 4 . - Stotatory Rules and 

Orders nodisd by the Ministry of 
Dofence 

- 


CONTENTT 
PAGBS 

PART YII - 9301ION 1. — Nobfications locued 

by the Auditor General, Union Public 
Sorvice Commission , Rallway Ad 
ministrations , High Courts, and the 

Attached 
49 - 73 

and Subordinate of con of 
the Government of Lndia (Published 

di Simla ) - - - - 
PART III - SBOTION 2 . - Nonfictions and 

Notices forued by the Patont Office 

Calcutta (Published at Simla ) 
65 - 75 

- 
PART III - SECTION 3 . - Notiations obuod 

by or under the authority of Chief 

Commlabioners ( Published a Simla ) 
Nit 

PART III - SECTION 4 . -- Micellancou . Noti 

Acatlonu (Published at Simla ) - 

Pam IV - Advertisements od Nodced by 
29 – 32 

Prvato individuals and Corporation 

( Published at Simla ) . 
NU 

SUPPLEMENT No. 7 – 
Reported attacks and deaths from cholera , small 

pox , plaguc And typhus in districts in India 
during the week ending I5th January 

1955 . . . . . . . 
297 – 319 Birth and destha from prlocipal diseases in 

towns with a population over 30 , 000 in 

India during the week ending 15th 
41 - 47 

January , 1955 


67 - 69 


20 


NI 


13 - 14 


89 - 93 


94 - 99 


( 


49 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 


[PART ISEC . 1 


PART I— Section 1 


Notifications relating to Non -Statutory Rules, Regulations and Orders and Resolutions issued 
by the Ministries of the Government of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by 

the Supreme Court 


OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY TO THE PRESIDENT 

New Delhi, the 7th February 1955 


CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
New Delhi, the 12th February 1955 


No . 9 - Pres. /88 . - In consequence of misconduct , the 
award of the Police Medal for gallantry to Guru 
swamy Jayarama Reddy, ex - Constable No. 1257, 
Special Armed Police , Madras , which was announced 
in the Secretary to the President s Notification 
No. 24 - Pres ./51, dated the 1st June 1951, is hereby 
cancelled . 


No. 38 - CA ( 1 ) / 58. - In pursuance of sub - section ( 1 ) 
of Section 13 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949, 
(Act XXXVIII of 1949) , the Council of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India is pleased to accept 
the resignation of Shri P . D . Kasbekar , I. A . S ., Deputy 
Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of 
Finance, Department of Economic Affairs, New Delhi, 
from the membership of the Council of this Institute 
with effect from the 12th February 1965 . 

N . R . MODY , President. 


C . S . VENKATACHAR , 
Secretary to the President. 


THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 

OF INDIA 


New Delhi, the 2nd February 1955 


No. 4 -CA ( 1 ) 754 . In pursuance of Regulation 12 of 
the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 1949 , it 18 
hereby notified that in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clauses ( a ) and ( c ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 20 
of the Chartered Accountants Act , 1949 , the Council of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India has 
removed from the Register of Members , with effect 
from the dates shown against their names , the names 
of the following gentlemen , namely : 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 2nd February 1956 
No. 51 - Cot. Ind . ( 1) / 52 . - Shri U . S . Malllah , M .P ., a 
member of the All- India Handicrafts Board , has been 
appointed as Additional Vice -Chairman of that Board . 

2 The Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Commerce 
and Industry in charge of Cottage Industries . has been 
appointed ex -officio member of the All - India Handi 
crafts Board in place of the Deputy Secretary in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry in charge of 
Cottage Industries . 

MRS. P . JOHARI, Dy. Secy . 


S . Mem 
No. bership 

No. 


Date of 
removal 


Name and Addreg8 


Under Section 20 ( 1)(a ) - at own request 


Il 1440 


Mr. Robert Douglas , Cloi 31 - 1 - 1955 
Burmah - Shell, General Ma- } 
nager s Office , Post Box 
No. 688 , Bombay . 


Under Section 20 (1)(c) — by death 


16-8 -1954 


Shri Muhammad Safdar 
Hussain , Appcllate Assistant 
Commissionor of Tacome 
Tax ," Quetta . 


New Delhi, the 3rd February 1965 


No. 8 -CA ( 1 ) / 84 . In pursuance of clause ( 3 ) of 
Regulation 10 of the Chartered Accountants Regula 
tions, 1949 , it is hereby notifled that the Certificates 
of Practice issued to the following members shall 
stand cancelled during the period shown against their 
names , namely : 


PATENTS AND DESIGNS 
New Delhi, the 8th February 1955 
No. 14 ( 1 ) TM & P / 55. The following draft of certain 
further amendments in the Indian Patents and Designs 
Rules, 1933, which it is proposed to make in exercise 
of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
57 and sub - section ( 1 ) of section 77 of the Indian 
Patents and Designs Act, 1911 ( II of 1911) is published 
as required by sub -section ( 2 ) of the said section 77 
for the information of all persons likely to be affected 
thereby ; and notice is hereby given that the said 
draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 
15th March 1956. Any objections or suggestions which 
may be received from any person with respect to the 
said draft before the date so specified will be consider 
ed by the Central Government : 

Draft amendments 
In the said Rules 

1. In the First Schedule , for entry 26 and all other 
entries relating to it, the following shall be substi 
tuted , namely : -- - 
" 28 On request to 15 , 18 3 - 0 - 0 " 

register design under 

Section 43 or 78A . 
2 . In Forms 15 and 16 in the Second Schedule, for 
the heading 
" Tee Annas 8 or Rs. 3 according to class ” , the 

following shall be substituted , namely : -- - 
" Fee Rs. 3.". 

K . N . SHENOY , Dy. Secy . 
MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

New Delhi, the 31st January 1955 
No, F . 7 - 2 / 68 -LS (11 ) . — In pursuance of the provisions 
of para. IX of the Rules and Regulations of the Central 
Council of Gosamvardhana, the Central Government 
is pleased to nominate the following persons as mem 
bers of the Executive Committee of the aforesaid 
Council with effect from the 25th February , 1955 : 
Under Clause 2 ( 4 ) 

1 Shri Brahm Dut Bhargava , 
Under Olapse 2 ( 6 ) 

1. The Director of Veterinary Department, Hyderabad 
State . 

2 . The Director of Animal Husbandry and Warden of 
Fisheries, Punjab State , 

S . D . UDHRAIN , Under Secy . 


Mem 
bership 
Number 


Name and Addic88 


Period during 
which the Certi 
Acate of Practice 

shall stand 
cancelled 


I 


2853 


Shri Vinavek Gorria 
Shri Vinayak Govind Bhat , 
No. 3 , Air Force Academy, 
Rodfiolds , Coimbatore . 


17 - 10 - 54 

to 
30 -6 - 1955 


1618 


Shri Onkar Nath Gupte, C /o 
M /8. Ranjit Slagh & Song, 
Esplanado Rond , Delhi. 


1 - 2 - 1955 

to 
30 -6 - 1955 


E . V . SRINIVASAN , Secy . 


PART I - SEC . 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


US 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 


New Delhi, the 9th February 1955 


No . 2 / 1 / 55 - Judi.l. — The President has learnt with the deepest 


regret of the death on Wednesday , the 9th February , 1955 , of 


Shri Ganpat Sakharam Rajadhyaksha , Judge of the Bombay 


High Court. By his death the country has lost an able and 
trusted public servant who served with distinction in various 
judicial capacities . 


2. Shri Rajadhyaksha was born in 1896 . He joined the Indian 
Civil Service in 1920 and was appointed a Judge of the Bombay 
High Court in 1943 . Thereafter, the Government of India 
utilized his services on several occasions for work on various 
important Commissions. In 1946, he was appointed to adjudi 
cate in a dispute relating to the Posts and Telegraphs Depart 
ment and later in another dispute between the Railway Adminis 
tration and their workmen . In 1947 , he was appointed as Mem 
ber of the Income Tax Investigation Commission . In 1950 , he 
served as Chairman of the Air Transport Enquiry Committee . 
In 1951 , he was appointed sole member of the Fertiliser Enquiry 
Committee . From 1952 to 1954, he presided over the Press 
Commission , whose valuable report is now under the considera 
tion of the Government of India . Finally , towards the end of 
1954 , he was appointed as sole member of the Bank Award Com 
mission and he was engaged on this task when his untimely 
death occurred . 


3. His patient and sympathetic approach , his careful sifting 
of facts and his ability to enter into the minds of all concerned 
earned for him the confidence of all parties and his judgment 
was therefore frequently sought. 


4 . The Government of India wish to record their appreciation 


of the valuable services rendered to the Government and the 


public by this distinguished Judge. 


A . V . PAI, Secy . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1953 


[ PART I - Sec. 1 

- : - - > 


RULES 


New Delhi, the 12th February , 1955 . 


No . 20 /88 / 84 - AIS ( 1 ) . – The rules for a competitive 
examination to be held by the Union Public Service 
Commission in September 1955 for the purpose of 
Alling vacancies in the following services are with the 
concurrence of the Ministries concerned and the 
Comptroller and Auditor General of India in respect 
of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service , published 
for general information : 


( ii) A candidate for any other service must have 
attained the age of 21 and must not have attained the 
age of 24 on the 1st August 1955 , le, he must have 
been born not earlier than 2nd August 1931 and 
not later than 1st August 1934 . 

(b ) ( i) In the case of the Indian Audit and Accounts 
Service and other Accounts and Allied Services , and 
of the Indian Income Tax Service, Class I, a Govern 
ment servant who is over the age of 24 and under 
the age of 27 on the 1st August 1956 , and either holds 
substantively a permanent appointment or has been 
in continuous service for a period of not less than 
two years on 1st August 1965 in a Department or 
Once under the control of any of the authorities 
mentioned in column 1 below may be admitted to the 
examination for the corresponding Service mentioned 
in column 2, if he lo recommended by the Head of 
his Department: 


( 1) The Indian Administrative Service, 
(2 ) The Indian Foreign Service, 
(3 ) The Indian Police Service, 
( 4 ) The Indian Audit and Accounts Service, 
(5 ) The Indian Defence Accounts Service, 
( 6 ) The Indian Railway Accounts Service, 
(7 ) The Indian Customs and Excise Service , 
( 8 ) The Indian Income Tax Service ( Class I), 
(9 ) The Transportation ( Traffic ) and Commercial 

Departments of the Superior Revenue 

Establishment of Indian Railways , 
( 10 ) The Indian Postal Service ( Class I) , 
( 11) The Military Lands and Cantonments Service 

( Class I and Class II ), and 


Accountant General concerned . Indian Audit & Accounts 

Service. 
Commissioner of Income-tax , Indian Income- tax Sor 

vico , Class I. 
Controller General of Defence Ac- Indian Defence Accounts 
counta . 

Service . 
Financial Advisers and Chief Ac- Indian Railway Accounts 

counts Officers of State Railways, Service. 
Financial Advisors and Chief 
Accounts Officer, State Rallways 
Coal Department and Director , 
Rallway Clearing Accounts office , 


Collector of Custom , or Collector India Customs and 
of Central Excise . 

Excise Service 


( 12 ) The Central Secretariat Service (Grade II) . 


2 . The examination will be conducted by the Union 
Public Service Commission in the manner prescribed 
in Appendix II to the Rules. 


3 . Candidates will be considered in order of merit 
for appointment to the vacancies in the Services that 
are decided to be filled and for which they may be 
eligible . 


Provided that in the case of the Indian Adminis 
trative / Police Service, any candidate belonging to the 
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes declared 
by the Commission to be suitable for appointment 
thereto with due regard to the maintenance of efficien 
cy of administration shall be entitled to be appoint 
ed to vacancies reserved for members of the Sche 
duled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes , as the case 
may be, in these Services . 


Provided further that a candidate who competes for 
the Indian Police Service and secures a sufficiently 
high place for appointment to that Service will not 
be offered an appointment to any other Service for 
which he may have completed and qualified except the 
Indian Administrative Service and the Indian Foreign 
Service . 


NOTE . In the case of Income - tax Department, & 
probationary Class II Income- tax Officer appointed 
against a temporary Training Reserve Post willl also 
be eligible for this concession irrespective of the length 
of his seryice therein . 

(ii ) In the case of the Indian Postal Service, Class I 
a Government servant, who is over the age of 24 and 
under the age of 27 on the 1st August 1953 and either 
holds substantively a permanent appointment or bag 
been in continuous service for a period of not less than 
2 years on the 1st August 1955 , in the subordinate or 
ministerial staff subject to the administrative control 
of a Postmaster General or a Director of Posts and 
Telegraphs, except staff of the Telegraph Engineering , 
Traffic and Wireless Branches, may be admitted to the 
examination if he is recommended by the Director 
General, Posts and Telegraphs. 

( iii) No Government servant will be admitted to 
the examination if he has already appeared at 
two previous examinations under the age concession 
applicable to candidates for the Accounts and Allied 
Services and the Indian Postal Service, Class I as a 
Government servant. 

( iv ) An Assistant of the Central Secretariat Service 
who ts over the age of 24 and under the age of 27 on the 
1st August 1956 may also be admitted to the examina 
tion to compete only for the Central Secretariat Service, 
Grade III, if he is recommended by his Department 
provided that in the case of a temporary Assistant, he 
must have rendered continuous service as an Assistant 
for a period of not less than three years on the 1st 
August 1955 and his service is certifed as " satisfac 
tory ” by the Department or once concerned. 

NOTE 1 .- - The upper age- limit prescribed in all the 
above cages will be relaxable : 
(1 ) upto a maximum of three years it a candidate 

belongs to & Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled 
Tribe or is a bona fide displaced person from 
Pakistan or from the unliberated areas of 

Jammu and Kashmir . 
( 1l) upto a maximum of six years la candidate 

belongs to a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled 
Tribe and is also a bona fide displaced person 
from Pakistan or from the unliberated areas 

of Jammu and Kashmir. 
( 14 ) upto a maximum of three years if a candidate 

belongs to Chandernagore and has been re 
ceiving his education through the medium of 
French . 


In view of the impending separation of Audit and 
Accounts and other reforms, the Constitution of the 
Indian Audit and Accounts Service is liable to un 
dergo changes and any candidate selected for that 
Service will have no claim for compensation in con 
sequence of any such changes and will be liable to 
serve either in the separated Accounts Offices under 
the Central or State Governments or in the Statutory 
Audit Ofces under the Comptroller and Auditor 
General and to be absorbed finally it the exigencies 
of service require it in the cadres on which posts in 
the separated Accounts Offices under the Central or 
State Governments may be borne. 


Due consideration will be given to the preferences 
expressed by a candidate at the time of his applica 
tion , but the Government of India reserve the right to 
assign him to any Service for which he is a candidate . 


NOTE . - A list each of communities / tribeg recogni 
sed as Scheduled Castes / Scheduled Tribes is given in 
Appendices V and VI respectively to these rules . 


4 . ( a ) (1 ) A candidate for the Indian Police Service 
must have attained the age of 20 and must not have 
attained the age of 24 on the 1st August 1965 , d, e .. 
he must have been born not earlier than 2nd August 
1931 and not later than 1st August 1935 . 


N . B . - Displaced persons from Pakistan or the unllb 
erated areas of Jammu and Kashmir will be eligible 
for this age concession for admission to any examina 
tion which may be held up to the end of December 
1965 . 


PART I - SEC. 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 


53 


NOTE 2 . - Candidates who are admitted to the exa 
mination under the age concessionsmentioned in claus 
es ( i ) , ( ii ) and ( iv ) above will not be eligible for ap 
pointment if, after submitting the application , they 
resign from service either before or after taking the 
examination . They will, however , continue to be 
eligible if they are retrenched from the service or 
post after submitting the applications. 
IN NO OTHER CASES CAN THESE AGE LIMITS 

BE RELAXED 


6 . ( a ) A candidate for the Indian Administrative 
Service and Indian Foreign Service must hold a degree 
in Arts , Science, Commerce, Agriculture, or Engineer 
Ing of one of the Universities enumerated in Appendix 


A candidate holding the LL . B ., degree of Bombay 
University ( rovised course ) is also eligible for the 
Indian Administrative Service and Indian Foreign 
Service. 

Candidates , who hold LL . B . degree of the Bombay 
University ( revised course ) but were exempted from 
any of the papers of the prescribed course on the 
ground of their being members of the University 
Ofcers Training Corps or National Cadet Corps, will , 
however , not be eligible for the Indian Administrative 
Service and Indian Foreign Service . 

NOTE . — Any question whether a candidate is 
educationally eligible for admission to the examination 
shall be decided by the Commission , whose decision 
will be Anal. 

(b ) A candidate for the Indian Police Service must 
hold a degree of one of the Universities enumerated 
in Appendix I or have passed the Cambridge Higher 
School Certificate examination . 

( c ) A candidate for the other services except for the 
Transportation ( Traffic ) and Commercial Departments 
must be a graduate of one of the Universities enume 
rated in Appendix I . 

( a ) A candidate for the Transportation ( Trafic ) and 
Comniercial Departments of the Superior Revenue 
Establishment of Indian Railways must 
( 1) hold a degree of one of the Universitles enu 

merated in Appendix I ; or 
( 11 ) have passed Sections A and B of the Associate 

Membership examination of the Institution of 
Engineers ( India ) ; or have such educational 
qualifications as are now or may subsequently 
be recognised by that Institution as exempting 
candidates from passing Sections A and B of 

that examination ; or 
( ili ) hold the Associateship or Fellowship of the 

Indian Institute of Science , Bangalore ; or 
(iv ) hold the Hons. Diploma in Civil , Mechanical 

or Electrical Engineering of the Loughborough 
College, Leicestershire . Such a candidate must 
have passed the common preliminary exami 
nation or must have been exempted there 

from. 
( e ) In exceptional cases the Union Public Service 
Commission may treat a candidate , who has not any 
of the foregoing qualifications , as a qualified candidate 
provided that he is recommended by the Central 
or a State Government and has passed examinations 
conducted by other institutions, the standard of which 
in the opinion of the Commission , justifles his ad 
mission to the examination . 

NOTE - - Candidates who are otherwise qualified but 
who have taken degrees from Foreign Universities 
which are not included in Appendix I, may also apply 
to the Commission and may be admitted to the exa 
mination at the discretion of the Commission , 

6 ( a ) . For the Indian Administrative Service and 
the Indian Police Service , a candidate must be a citizen 
of India not ordinarily residing in the State of Jam 
mu and Kashmir . 

NOTE . - Displaced persons who have migrated from 
areas which now form Pakistan or who have come 
away from the unliberated areas of Jammu and 
Kashmir with the intention of permanently settling 
down in any of the States in Indla except Jammu and 
Kashmir will also be eligible to apply . 
(b ) For other Services a candidate must be 

( 1) a citizen of India , or 
( 11 ) A subject of Sikkim , or 
( iii) a person who has migrated from areas which 

now form Pakistan with the intention of per 

manently settling in India , or 
Oy ) a subject of Nepal or of a Portuguese or a 

former French possession in India . 


NOTE . -- The appointment of candidates in cate 
gories ( ) and ( iv ) above will be subject to the 
issue of certificates of eligibility in their favour by the 
Government of India . Certificates of eligibility will 
not however be necessary in the case of candidates 
belonging to any of the following categories : 
( 1 ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan 

beforo 19th July 1948 and have ordinarily 

been resident in India since then , 
( 2 ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan 

after 18th July 1948 but before 30th Septem 
ber 1948 and had got themselves registered 

as citizens within the time allowed . 
( 3 ) Non - citizens who entered service under the 

Government of India before the commence 
ment of the Constitution viz ., 28th January 
1950 and who have continued in such service 
since then . Any such persons who re - entered 
or may re- enter such service with a break , 
after the 26th January 1950, will however 
require certificates of eligibility in the usual 

way . 
7 . No male candidate who has more than one wite liv 
ing shall be eligible for appointment to any of the Ser 
vice appointments to which are made on the results 
of this competitive examination unless the Govern 
ment of India after being satisfied that there are 
special grounds for doing so , exempt any male can 
didate from the operation of this rule . 

8 . It will be open to the Government of India not 
to appoint to the Indian Administrative Service/ 
Indian Police Service a woman candidate who is mar 
ried or to require such a candidate who is not mar 
ried to resign from the service in the event of her 
marrying subsequently , if the maintenance of the off 
ciency of the Service so requires. 

9 . For the Indian Foreign Service a woman 
candidate is eligible only if she is unmarried or a 
widow without encumbrances . If such a candidate is 
selected , she will be appointed on the express condition 
that she might be called upon to resign from the ser 
vice on marriage or re -marriage . 

A male candidate, married to a person of a na 
tionality other than his own, will not ordinarily be 
appointed to the Indian Foreign Service . If a candi 
date , after appointment to the Indian Foreign Service , 
proposes to marry a person of a nationality other than 
his own , he must notify the Secretary, Ministry of 
External Affairs of his intention . The Government of 
India reserve the right to require him to resign if he 
marries such a person . 

10. A candidate must be in good mental and bodily 
health and free from any physical defect likely to 
Interfere with the discharge of his duties as an oficer 
of the Service . A candidate who after such medical 
examination as Government or the appointing autho 
rity , as the case may be, may prescribe is found not 
to satisfy these requirements , will not be appointed . 
Only such candidates as are likely to be considered 
for appointment will be medically examined. 

NOTE . — In order to prevent disappointment candi 
dates are advised to have themselves examined by a 
Government medical oficer of the standing of a Clyil 
Surgeon , before applying for admission to the exa 
mination . Particulars of the nature of the medical 
test to which candidates will be subjected before 
appointment and of the standards required are given 
in Appendix VII. 

11 . Success in the examination confers no right to 
appointment, unless Government are satisfied after 
such enquiry as may be considered necessary , that 
the candidate is suitable in all respects for appoint 
ment to the Service. 

12 . The decision of the Commission as to the eligi 
bility or otherwise of a candidate for admission to 
the examination shall be final. 

13 . No candidate will be admitted to the examina 
tion unless he holds a certificate of admission from 
the Commission . 

14 . Candidates must pay the fees prescribed in Ap 
pendix III. No claim for a refund of any of these 
fees will ordinarily be entertained except to the ex 
tent stated in the Appendix nor can they be held in 
reserve for any other examination or selection . 

15 . Any attempt on the part of a candidate to obtain 
support for his candidature by any means may dis 
qualify him for admission, 

16 . A candidate found guilty of impersonation or 
of submitting fabricated documents or documents 
which have been tampered with or of making state 
ments which are incorrect or false or suppressing 
material information or of using or attempting to use 
unfair means in the examination hall or otherwise 
resorting to any other irregular or improper means 
for obtaining admission to the examination Day , in 


54 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 


[PART - Sec. 1 


ISO 


an amanuensis ( scribe ) to write down the answers for 
them . 

1. The following will be the subjects for the written 
examination for all Services with such restrictions 
and combinations as are detailed below : 
Compulsory ( for all candidates ) — 

Mark : 
( 1 ) English Essay . . . . . . 150 
(2 ) Geocral English . . 

150 
(3 ) General Knowledge , 
Optional, - ( 1 ) Candidates for the Indian Police Ser 
yice must select any two of the following subjects , 
and 

( ii) Candidates for all Services other than the Indian 
Police Service must select any three of the following 
subjects : 
( 4 ) Pure Mathematic , 

200 
(5) Applied Mathematics 

200 
(6 ) Chemistry 
(7 ) Physica 

200 
( 8) Botany 

200 
(9 ) Zoology . . 

200 
( 10 ) Geology , . 

200 
(11) English Literature 

200 
( 12) Indian History , 

200 
( 13 ) British History . . 

200 
( 14 ) World History . . 

200 
( 15) International Law 
( 16 ) Genoral Economics 

200 
( 17) Political Scienco 
( 18 ) Law , , . 

200 
(19 ) Philosophy 
(20) Geography . 

200 
(21) One of the following : 


. 


. 


200 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


200 


. 


. 


200 " 


. 


200 


. 


. 


Latin , French , Sanskrit, Arabic, Persian , Spa 

nish , Russian , German and Chinese . 


200 


addition to rendering himself liable to a criminal pro 
secution , be debarred either permanently or for a 
specified period : 
( a ) by the Commission from admission to any 

examination or appearance at any interview 
held by the Commission for selection of candi 

dates ; and 
(b ) by the Central Government from employment 

under the Government. 
17. Candidates are informed that some knowledge 
of Hindi prior to entry into service would be of ad 
vantage in passing departmental examinations which 
candidates have to take after entry into gervice. 

APPENDIX I 
List of Universities approved by the Government of 

India 

INDIAN UNIVERSITIES 
Any University incorporated by an Act of the Central 
or of a Part A or Part B State Legislature in India . 

The degrees and diplomas mentioned below have also 
been recognised provisionally as equivalent to the 
Bachelor of Arts degree of a recognized University 
with effect from the date specified against each : 
Alankar of Gurukul University, Kangri, Hardwar 

with effect from 5th July 1948 . 
Jamia Sanadi of Jamia Millia Islamia , Delhi, with 

effect from 3rd December 1946 . 
Shastri of Kashi Vidyapith , Banaras , with effect 
from 6th May 1946 . 

UNIVERSITY IN BURMA 
The University of Rangoon . 

ENGLISH AND WELSH UNIVERSITIES 
The Universities of Birmingham , Bristol, Cambridge , 
Durham , Leeds, Liverpool, London , Manchester, Ox 
ford , Reading, Sheffield and Wales . 

SCOTTISH UNIVERSITIES 
The Universities of Aberdeen , Edinburgh , Glassgow 
and St. Andrews. 

IRISH UNIVERSITIES 
The University of Dublin ( Trinity College ) . 
The National University of Dublin , 
The Queen s University , Balfast. 

UNIVERSITIES IN PAKISTAN 
The University of Punjab . 
The Dacca University . 
The University of Sind. 

APPENDIX II 
A --- The Examination shall be conducted according 
to the following plan : 

PART 1 
Compulsory papers up to a total of 450 marks for all 
services . 

PART II 
Optional papers up to a total of 600 marks for all 
Services except the Indian Police Service for which the 
required total will be 400 marks. 

PART III 
Additional papers for candidates who compete for 
the Indian Administrative Service and the Indian 
Foreign Service up to a total of 400 marks as detailed 
in Appendix IIA . 

For the Indian Administrative Service and the Indian 
Foreign Service the two additional papers of only such 
candidates will be examined and marked as attain a 
certain minimum standard at the written examination 
in all the other subjects . 

PART IV 
Personality test for such candidates as may be called 
by the Union Public Service Commission carrying a 
maximum of 300 marks for all Services except the 
Indian Administrative Service and the Indian Foreign 
Service . The maximum personality test marks for the 
Indian Administrative Service and the Indian Foreign 
Service shall be 400 . 

B . - ALL QUESTION PAPERS MUST BE ANSWER 
ED IN ENGLISH , EXCEPT QUESTION PAPERS IN 
LANGUAGES WHICH , UNLESS SPECIFICALLY RE 
QUIRED OTHERWISÉ , MAY BE ANSWERED IN 
ENGLISH OR IN THE LANGUAGE OFFERED . 


NOTE . - -For the Indian Foreign Service only and for 
no other Service candidates may select any two of 
these languages . 
( 22) Statistics . . . . . . . 

200 
(23) Advanced Accountancy and Auditing . . 200 
( 24) Mercantilo Law . . . . . 200 
( 25) Applied Mechanics . . . . 

200 
( 26 ) Primo Movers . . 

. . . 200 


- 


200 


200 


2 . Restrictions on the selection of optional subjects -- - 

( a ) Subjects 25 and 26 must not be offered for the 
Indian Police Service . 

( b ) of the History subjects 12, 13 and 14 , not more 
than two can be offered for any service . 

(c ) of the Law subjects 15 , 18 and 24 , not more 
than two can be offered for any service . 

( d ) of the Mathematics subjects 4 , 5 and 22, not 
more than two can be offered for any service. 

3. The Commission have discretion to fix qualitying 
marks in any or all of the subjects at the examina 
tion . 

4 . The Commission will summon at their discretion 
only such candidates as they consider suitable for inter 
view for a personality test . 

5 . From the marks assigned to candidates in each 
subject such deduction will be made as the Commission 
may consider necessary in order to secure that no 
credit is allowed for merely superficial knowledge. 

6 . If a candidate s handwriting is not easily legible 
a deduction will be made on this account from the 
total marks otherwise accruing to him . 

7. Credit will be given for orderly , effective and 
exact expression combined with due economy of words 
in all subjects of the examination , 


APPENDIX II - A 

Vide Part III 
All candidates wishing to compete for the Indian 
Administrative Service and the Indian Foreign Service 


Candidates must write the papers in their own hand . 
In no circumstance , will they be allowed the help of 


PART 1 - Sec. 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1985 


55 


200 


must select any two of the following subjects for the 
additional papers : 

Marks 
( 1) Higher Pure Mathematics , . . . 200 

Or 
Higher Applied Mathematics 
(2 ) Higher Chemistry . . 

200 
( 3) Higher Physics . . 

200 
(4 ) Higher Botany , . 
6 ) Higher Zoology . . 

200 
(6 ) Higher Geology . . 
( 7) English Literature from 1780 to 1901 

200 
(8 ) Indian History from 1600 to the present 

day . . . . . . . . 


tro . 


200 


200 


200 


or 


British Constitutional History from 
the present day . . . 


1603 to 

. 


200 


or 


200 


European Hlatory from 1789 to 1878 . 
(9) Advanced Economic Theory . . 


. 
. 


200 


OC 


200 


Advanced Indian Economice . . . 
(10) Political Theory from Hobbes to the present 

day . . . . . . . . 





200 


Or 


200 


Political Organisation and Public Administra 
tion . , , 

, 
(11 ) Advanced Metaphysics including Epistemov 

logy . . . . . . . . 


6 . Applied Mathematics .- - The subjects Included will 
be : 
( 1 ) Statics (including Theory of Attractions and 

Potentials ) and Hydrostatics . 
( 2 ) Dynamics of a particle and Elementary Rigid 

Dynamics . 
6 . Chemistry . The paper will include questions on 
General ( including Physical) Chemistry , Inorganic 
Chemistry and Organic Chemistry . 

7. Physics.--- The paper will include questions on 
General Physics , Heat, Light, Sound, Electricity and 
Magnetism . 

8 . Botany. - The subject includes Vegetable Physio 
logy , 

9 . Zoology , 
10 . Geology . The subject includes Mineralogy . 

11 . English Literature , - - Candidates will be expected 
to show a general knowledge of the history of English 
Literature from the time of Spenser to the end of the 
reign of Queen Victoria with special reference to the 
works of the following authors : 

Shakespeare , Milton , Johnson , Dickens , Wordsworth , 
Keats, Carlyle, Tennyson and Hardy . 

Evidence of first hand reading will be required . 

12 . & 13 . Indian and British History . The exami 
nation will be in Indian History from the beginning of 
Asoka s reign to the close of the 19th Century and in 
British History from 1485 to 1880 . The papers will 
include questions on social and literary developments. 

14 . World History . — 1789 to 1939 . 

15 . International Law . - Including also the History 
of International Law and the Law of belligerents 
and neutrals in war , 

16 . General Economics.-- -Candidates will be expected 
to have a knowledge of economic theory and ghould 
be prepared both to illustrate theory by facts and to 
analyse facts by the help of theory . Questions may 
be set on the history of economic thought. 

17. Political Science - - Candidates will be expected to 
show & koowledge of political theory and its history , 
political theory being understood to mean not only the 
theory of legislation but also the general theory of the 
State . Questions may also be set on constitutional 
forms (Representative Government. Federallsm . etc .) 
and Public Administration , Central and Local. Candi 
dates will be expected to have knowledge of the origin 
and development of existing lastitutions. 

18 . Law . Constitutional Law of the Republic of 
India and the United Kingdom , Jurisprudence, Torts , 
Indian Law of Contract, Indian Evidence Act, Indian 
Penal Code. 

19 . Philosophy . - - The subject covers the history and 
the theory of Ethics , Eastern and Western , and includes 
moral standards and their application , the problems of 
moral order and progress of Society and the State , and 
theories of punishment. It includes also the history 
of Western Philosophy and should be studied with spe 
cial reference to the problems of space, time and 
casuality , evolution and value and the nature of God . 

20. Geography .- Geography of the world with special 
reference to India . Questions may be set on topics 
which concern Geography jointly with other subjects , 
such as Economics, History Physics, Botany and 
Geology . 

21. Lanphages. - - Candidates will be expected to show 
a knowledge of the principal classical authors and to 
be able to translate from and compose in the language . 


200 


or 


200 


Advanced Paychology including Experimen 

tal Psychology , . 
( 12 ) Medieval Civilisation as reflected in Arabic 
Literature (570 A . D .- 1650 A . D .) 

or 
Medieval Civilisation as reflected in Persian 
Literature ( 570 - A . D .- 1650 AD .) . . 


200 


200 


or 


200 


Ancient Iodian Civilleation and Philosophy . 
( 13 ) Anthropology . . 
( 14 ) Sociology . . . 
(15) Higher Geography , 


200 


200 
200 


NOTE 1 . - The standard of the above papers will be 
higher than that prescribed for the optional papers 
detailed under para . 1 of Appendix II. 

Note 2 . - For the Indian Administrative Service and 
the Indian Foreign Service , the two additional papers 
of only such candidates will be examined and marked 
ag attain a certain minimum standard at the written 
examination in all the other subjects . 


APPENDIX II - B 
Standard and syllabus of the examination . 
NOTE . — The standard of _ optional papers will be 
approximately that of an Flonours Degree examination 
of an Indian University . 

1. English Essay . An essay to be written in English 
on one of several specified subjects . 

2 . General English .- - Questions to test the under 
standing of and the power to write English . Pasgages 
will usually be set for summary or precis . 

3 . General Knowledge. Including knowledge of 
current events and of such matters of everyday 
observation and experience in their scientific aspects 
as may be expected of an educated person who has 
not made a special study of any scientific subject. 
The paper will algo include questions on Indian History 
and Geography of a nature which candidates should 
be able to answer without special study , 

4 Pure Mathematics . The subjects included will 
be : 


NOTE. - Candidates for Sanskrit Arabic and Persian 
may be asked to answer some questions in Sanskrit, 
Arabic or Persion as the case may be . Answers re 
quired to be written in Sanskrit must be written in 
the Devanagari Script . 

22. Statistics . - ( 1 ) Frequency distributions average, 
percentiles and simple methods of measuring disper 
sion , graphic methods, treatment of qualitative data , 
eg., investigation of association by comparison of ratios , 
the practice of graphic and algebraic methods of inter 
polation . 

( 2 ) Practical methods used in the analysis and inter 
pretation of statistics of prices , wages and incomes . 
trade transport, production and consumption , educa 
tion etc ., methods of dealing with population and vital 
statistics , miscellaneous methods used in handling 
statistics of experiments or observations. 


( 1 ) Algebra , Trigonometry and Theory of Equa 

tions with Determinants . 
( 2 ) Pure Plane Geometry and Analytical Geometry 

of two and three dimensions . 
(3 ) Differential and Integral Calculus and Differ 

ential equations. 


( 3 ) Elements of modern mathematical theory of 
statistics, frequency curves and the mathematical re 
presentation of groups generally , accuracy of sampling 


56 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


[ PART I - SEC. 2 


Foundations. - Safe Pressures; foundations for 
columns Slab foundations, cantilever foundations; 
grillage foundations. Wells. Plles. 

Retaining Walls and Earth Pressures. - Rankine s 
theory . Wedge theory , Winker s and Bligh s graphical 
constructions, with corrections. Design of various 
types of retaining walls in masonry . 

Tall Masonry and Steel Chimneys. - Theory and 
design , 

Design of Steel and masonry reservoirs ; with consi 
derations of wind - pressures . 

Deflection of framed structures and determination 
of stresses , etc ., in redundant frames . 

Influence diagrams for bending moment and shear 
for uniformly distributed and Irregular loads on 
trusses , built in beams, and three pinned ; parabolic 
semi- elliptic and semi-circular arches . 

General principles of dome design . 

Principles of Bullding Design ; consideration of loads 
on buildings . Steel-works, girders , etc ., for buildings . 

(b ) Bridges 
Design of superstructure . Determination by graphi 
cal and analytical methods of bending moment due to 
moving loads . Wind pressures . 

Design of masonry bridges and culverts. 
Plate -webb girders . Analysis of stresses, 
Warren and lattice girders . 
Three pinned arches ; doubly pinned and rigid arches. 
General considerations on the design of suspension , 
cantilevers and tubular bridges . 

Steel arched bridges. 
Swing bridges . 


as affecting averages , percentages , the standard devia 
tion , significance of observed differences between 
averages, of groups, etc ., the theory of correlation for 
two variables. 
23. Advanced Accountancy and Auditing : - 
( a ) Accounts relating to : - -Partnership , Joint 

Stock Company , Amalgamation , Absorption 
and Reconstruction , Holding and Subsidiary 
Companies , Insolvency , Liquidation . Double 
Accounts System , Hire Purchase and Instal 
ment Systems, and Non -trading organisations. 
Branch Accounts, Bank Accounts, Contract 
Accounts, Insurance Accounts , Royalty Ac 
counts . Criticism of Published Accounts . 
Problems relating to Goodwill, Depreciation 

and Reserves, etc . 
( b ) Cost Accounts : - Aims and objects of costing. 

Principal systems of ascertaining costs for 
different types of industries and their charac 
teristics . Methods of apportionment of on 
cost. Treatment and Control of Materials , 
Stores and Stocks. Treatment of wages and 
other expenses . Pricing of Stores and Stocks. 
Forms of Cost Ledger, Stores - Ledger , Purchase 
Journal. Ştores Requisition Note , Goods Re 
relved Book , Bin Card , Time Sheet Wages 
Summary, Cost sheet and other necessary 
rulings . Ascertainment of Cost and Ex - works 
price under Controlled economy. Practical 

Problems relating to cost Accounting. 
( c ) Principles and procedure of auditing : - Audit 

of farms. Joint Stock Companies and Public 
Utiities , Rights , duties and Habilities of 
auditors. Internal check . Auditor s appoint 
ment and qualifications, Auditor s Report, In 
vestigations and their conduct . Divisible Pro 
Ats and Dividends. Legal decisions relating to 

audit matters . Problems relating to audits , 
( d ) Income - Tax : - Application of Income Tax Act 

and exemptions. Income Tax Authorities. 
Heads of Income and their assessment Previous 
year , Assessment year , Depreciation Free of 
Tax and Less Tax Set -off, Computation of 
Total Income and tax payable by assessees , 
Assessment of individuals , Firms, Joint Stock 
Companies, Hindu undivided family , Associa 
tion of persons. Assessment of new business 
and discontinued business . Method and prin 
ciples relating to assessment to super - tax . 

Practical problems. 
24 . Mercantile Law . The main principles of the law 
relating to : 

Agreements . 
Contracts . 
Bailment. 
Pledge . 
Sale of Goods. 
Agency . 
Partnership 
Indemnity and Guarantee . 
Negotiable Instruments , 
Company Law and Liquidation of Companies. 
Lite, Fire , Marine Insurance , 
Common Carriers, and Carriage of Goods by Land , 

Sea and Afr 
Insolvency . 
25 . Applied Mechanics -- 

(a ) Buildings 
Consideration of materials used in the construction 
of roof- trusses . Steel and timber, Determination of 
stresses in trusses by various methods. Dead - loads 
and wind pressure. Factors of safety and working 
stresses. 

Design of roof- trusses . Various types of roof-trusses 
and roof- coverings ; collar beam and hammer beam 
trusses, 

Use of Euler s , Gordon s, Rankine s , Fidler s, John 
son s and straight line formulae in the design of struts . 
Buckling factor of struts ; curves showing comparative 
strength of struts obtained by various formulae, 
Choice of size of sections. Finish of steel work . Joints, 
Design of end -bearings ; methods of fixing and sup 
porting ends . 


(c ) Reinforced Concrete 
Shear, bond and diagonal tension . Its pature, evalua 
tion and location of reinforcement. 

Design of simple and doubly reinforced beams and 
continuous beam . 

Theory and design of reinforced concrete columns 
and piles . 

Design of slab foundations, 

Design of simple cantilever and counterfort retaining 
walls . 

Equivalent moments of inertia for reinforced con 
crete sections. 

Theory of elastic deflections and outline of Investiga 
tion of stresses in reinforced concrete arches . 

( d ) General 
Analysis of stress , analysis of strain , elastic limit 
and ultimate strength . Relation between the elastic 
constants . Launhardt-Weyrauch formula for workdag 
stresses in a structual member and determination of 
its cross sectional Area . Repetition of stresses . Bend 
ing moment and shearing force diagrams for dead 
loads. Graphical determinaton of stresses in trames ; 
effect of wind pressure ; method of sections. Stress in 
the cross-section of a beam due to bending (M / T- 1 / y 
E / R ) ; compound and conjugated stresses. Rankine s 
theory of earth -pressure ; depth of foundations and 
strength of footings . Grillage foundations; Coulomb s 
theory of earth - pressure : modification due to Rebahn . 


Bending moment and shearing force diagrams for 
live loads. Analysis of uniform and uniformly varying 
stress . Elastic theory of bending of beams; bending 
and shear stresses in beams; Modulus of section and 
equivalent areas . Maximum and minimum stresses in 
a joint due to eccentric loading, Stresses in dams and 
chimneys, Stability of block - work structures. Design 
of rivetted joints and stresses in boller shells . Euler s 
theory concerning struts ; modifications due to Rankine. 
Gordon and others. Torsion , Combined torsion and 
bending deflections. Encastre beams, Continuous beams 
and theorem of three moments. Elastic theory of 
arches . Masonry arches . 

26 . Prime Movers, - 
Fuel, Gas Plants and Boilers.- - 
( a ) Fiel. Coal, wood , petroleum , gas petrol, 

alcohol, etc., physical characteristics , approxi 
mate chemical composition ; heat of combus 

tion , 
(b ) Gas Plants . — Gas producers , pressure and 

suction plants , arrangements and working , 


Application of circles and ellipse of stress and 
Clapeyron s theorem to design of structures. 

Cast Iron and Steel Columns, Flange and web con 
pections to steel Columns ; caps ; bases transverse brac 
ing of columns. 


PART I- Sec. 1 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1068 


$ 7 


- 


U 


- 


- 


( c ) Bozler8 . Draught; natural forced and induced , 

Ordinary forms of stationery locomotive, 
marine, water - tube, and other types ; heating 
surface , fire - grate area ; boiler eficiency ; 
superheaters ; feed -water heaters ; accessories 

and management, 
Theory of Heat Engines. 
(a ) Thermodynamical principles : Carnot s cycle ; 

perfect heat engine ; second law . 
( b ) Air Engines. - Stirling and other forms. 
(c ) Internal Combustion Engines.- -Gas , oil and 

petrol engines; types and working ; features of 

cycles . Proportioning of mixtures ; efficiencies . 
( d ) Steam .- - Thermodynamics of the generation , 

expansion and condensation of steam ; heat 

diagrams, etc . 
(e ) Steam engines and turbines , with special refer 

ences to modern developments , 
( 1) Refrigerating Plants . - Theory and General 

arrangement of the more common types . 
(8 ) Air Compressors . - Theory of pneumatic work 


inx 


Generating Plants, Accessories and Details. 
( a ) General arrangements and construction of the 

more important types. 
(b ) Condensers, alr-pumps, circulating pumps, cool 

ing tanks , etc . 
(c ) Cerburettors, and system of ignition . 
( d ) Cylinders pistons, cross -heads , guides, connect 

ing rods , cranks, governors , ily -wheels , valves 

and valve - years , glands and pipes. 
( e ) Engine Testing . – Consumption of steam and 

fuel, gas , and oil brakes and dynamo -meters 

indicators and indicator dlægrams. 
Personality test. – The candidate will be interviewed 
by a Board who will have before them a record of his 
career. He will be asked questions on matters of 
general Interest . The object of the interview is to 
assess the personal suitability of the candidate for the 
Service or Services for which he bas applied by a 
Board of competent and unbiassed observers , The 
qualities to be judged may be broadly summed up as 
an assessment of the mental calibre of the candidate 
when that term is understood to include not only 
intellectual qualities but also social and moral traits 
of personality . Some of the qualities to be judged are 
mental alertness , critical powers of assimilation , clear 
and logical exposition , balance of Judgement, varlety 
and depth of interests , ability for social cohesion and 
leadership , Intellectual and moral integrity . 

2 . The technique of the Interview is not that of a 
strict cross examination , but of a natural though direct 
ed and purposive conversation , which is intended to 
reveal the mental qualities of the candidate . 

3 . The Personality test is not intended to be a test 
either of the specialised or general knowledge of the 
candidates which have been already tested through his 
written papers . Candidates are expected to have taken 
an intelligent interest not only in their special sub 
jects of academic study, but also in the events which 
are happening around them both within and without 
their own state or country , as well as in modern 
currents of thought, and in new discoveries which 
should rouse the curiosity of well educated youth , 


Rigid Dynamics — Motion in two dimensions. Mo 
mentum and V2 - viva. Lagrange s equations 
of motion and their application to small oscil 

lations . 
4 . Hydrodynamics including the elementary theory of 
the motion of solids through a liquid , and surface 
waves. 

5 . Electricity and Magnetism , 

6 . Thermodynamics, Kinetic theory of gabes , radia 
tion . 
HIGHER CHEMISTRY : 

I. A study of the following elements : Rare gases, 
rare earths, elements of atomic number 43, 61, 85, 87 
hatnlum , protoactinium , polonium , rhenium and trans 
uranic elements . 

Co-ordination conipounds . Radioactivity and trans 
mutation of elements. Modern methods of atomic 
weight determination . Different forms of hydrogen and 
Its Isotopes . Free radicals of short ute , Newer methods 
in analytical chemistry . 

II. Theories of organic chemistry including resonance 
and hydrogen bond . Organic reactions and stereoche 
mistry . Production and use of aliphatic hydrocarbons. 
Natural and synthetic polymers and polysaccharides . 
Chemistry of diphenyl and polycyclic hydrocarbons . 
Tanning and depsides , terpenes and alkaloids. Natural 
colouring matters . Important members of the follow 
ing : vitamins and hormones , sterols and bile acids, 
cardiac glycosides , Insecticides and antibiotics . Syn 
thetic drugs and perfumes . 

III. The states of aggregation . Surface chemistry 
and colloids. Thermodynamics - I and II laws of ther 
modynamics and their application to chemical pheno 
mena . Electrochemistry . Chemical kinetics and cata 
lysis , Quantum theory . 
HIGHER PHYSICS 

1. General Properties of Matter and Sound - -Mecha 
nics of deformable bodies . Helical Springs. Capillary 
phenomena Viscosity , Wave motion . Acoustical 
measurements . Absorption of sound . Ultrasonics. 

2 . Heat and Thermodynamics - Brownian motion , 
Kinetic theory of gases . Transport phenomena in gases 
at low pressures , Thermodynamic functions and their 
applications. Specifc heat of solids . Conduction and 
convection . Absolute scale , measurement of tempera 
ture . 


3 . Optics - Theory of co - axial symmetrical optical 
systems and Instruments . Experimental spectroscopy . 
Electromagnetic theory . Scattering of Ught Diffrac 
tion . Polarisation , Conical refraction . 

4 . Electricity and Magnetism - Gauss theorem . 
Electrometers . Atmospheric electricity . Magnetic 
hyteresis . Theory of permanent magnets . Measure 
ment of electrical quantities. Alternating Current 
theory . Induction Motor. Cyclotron and other methods 
for production of high voltages . Transmission and 
reception of wireless waves . Television . 


8 . Electron Theory and Wave Mechanics - Hydrogen 
and hellum spectra, Zeman and Stark effects . Paull s 
principle and periodic classification of elements. X - rays 
and X - ray spectroscopy . Compton effect. Motion of 
electron in electric and magnetic felds. Conduction in 
metals . Supraconductivity . Thermioncs. Thermal 
Ionization . Properties of atomic nuclei. Mag. Spect 
roscopy . Radioactive transformations, Elementary 
particles and their properties . Nuclear forces . Cosmic 
rayo. Special theory of relativity . Dual nature of light 
and matter . Schroedinger s equation and its solution 
in simple cases . 


APPENDIX II-C 
Syllabus for additional papers to be offered by candi 

dates competing for the Indian Administrative 

Service and the Indian Foreign Service . 
HIGHER PURE MATHEMATICS : 

1, Infinite Series and Products. 
2 . Analysis : 

(a ) Functions of a real variable. 

(b ) Functions of a complex variable . 
3 . Advanced Geometry including Differential Goo 
metry Curves in space. Envelopes. Curvature of sur 
faces . Lines of curvature, Geodesics . 
HIGHER APPLIED MATHEMATICS : 

1 . Statics including Attractions and Potentials , 
2 . Hydrostatics : Fluid pressure. Atmospheric pres 
sure . Caplllarity . 
3. Dynamics of a particle and Rigid bodies . 
Particle Dynamics-- - Central Orbits. Constrained 

motion . Motion in a reşişting medium , 
Motion in three dimensions. 


HIGHER BOTANY : 

Candidates will be expected to poB8888 an advanced 
knowledge of the main groups of the vegetable kine 
dom both llving and extinct ( vit . Algae, Fungi, Bryo 
phyta , Pteridophyta , Gymnosperms and Angiosperms) 
with special reference to the Indian fiora . 

Anatomy Origin , nature and development of plant 
tissues and their distribution from ecological and phy 
siological point of view . 

Ecology - Principal types of vegetation of India , their 
distribution and the importance of vegetational study. 

Physlology - An advanced knowledge of the impor 
tant Physiological processes of plant body. 

Plant Pathology . - -An advanced knowledge of the 
important diseases of plants caused by bacteria , fungi, 
viruses and physiological diseasos together with tho 
methods of control, 


58 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1956 


[ PAN 


SEC. 1 


Economic consequences of Partition ; Indian Economy 
since Independence ; Recent Economic Legislation ; 
Planning India s economic development. 


Economic Botany - A study of the important econo 
mic plants of India and their distribution . 

General Biology - - A knowledge of fundamentals and 
recent development in variation , heredity , evolution , 
cytology , genetics and principles of plant breeding . 
HIGHER ZOOLOGY : 

( 1 ) The Structure, bionomics , development, classif 
cation and general organisations of the following 
groups: 

Protozoa (Protozoa and disease ); Parazoa; Coelente 
rata ; Platyhelminthes and Nemathelminthes (with spe 
cial reference to the disease carriers of man and domes 
tic animale ) ; Annelida ; Arthorpoda ( Economic role of 
Insects in India ) ; Chaetognatha, Rotifera ; Polyzoa etc .; 
Molluscla ; Echinodermata ; Cephalochordata ; Urochor 
data ; Cyclostomata ; Elasmobranchii ; Teleostei, Dipnol; 
Amphibia ; Reptilla ; Aves ; and Mammalia , 


POLITICAL THEORY FROM HOBBES TO THE 

PRESENT DAY 
Theories of Contract and Natural Right - - Hobbes , 
Locke and Rousseau . The Historians Vico , Monte 
quieu and Burke. The Utilitarians. The Evolutionists . 
The Idealists - Kant, Hegel, Green , Bradley and Boran 
quet. Marxism , Pluralism and Fascism . 


( 2) General Biology . 

Evolution ; Heredity and Mendelism ; Variations; 
Mutations ; Basic Principles of Cytology - Cell structure 
with modern concept of genes, Cell division , Fertiliza 
tions, Gametogeness — Parasitism ; Animal colouration ; 
Mimicry ; Geographical and Geological distribution of 
animals . Growth of Biological ideas and the contri 
bution of great biologists to knowledge and clvilization . 
HIGHER GEOLOGY : 

General Geology-- History and development of the 
science of Geology , Origin and evolution of the Earth . 
Radioactivity and geology . Seismology . Isostasy 
Wegener s Theory . Evolution of continents, oceanic 
basins, 

Crystallography and Mineralogy - Crystal symmetry 
and structure . The Reflecting Goniometer . Detalled 
study of rock -forming and economic minerals. 

Peterology - Igneous rocks. Sedimentary rocks. Meta 
morphic rocks. 

Structural and Feld Geology - Problems of rock de 
formation Structure in relation to topography and 
economic geology . Methods of Geological Surveying 
and Mapping. 

Palaeontology, Stratigraphy and Indian Geology 

Palaeontology - Detailed knowledge of invertebrate 
palaeontology ; an outline of vertebrate palaeontology 
and palaeobotany . 

Stratigraphy and Indian Geology - Principles of stra 
tigraphy. Detailed study of geological formation as 
developed in India , Pakistan and Burma. 

Economic Geology - With special reference to India . 
Principles of Geological prospecting. 
ENGLISH LITERATURE : 

From 1780 to 1901 with special reference to the works 
of Wordsworth , Coleridge, Shelley, Keats , Byron , 
Lamb , Jane Austen , Carlyle , Ruskin , Dickens, Thacke 
ray, Tennyson & Browning. 
INDIAN HISTORY : 

From 1800 to the present day. 
EUROPEAN HISTORY : 

From 1789 to 1878 . 
BRITISH CONSTITUTIONAL HISTORY FROM 1803 

TO THE PRESENT DAY 
ADVANCED ECONOMIC THEORY : 

Indifference technique of economic analysis ; the Sta 
tlogary State and Statical Equilibrium ; Theory of Im 
perfect Competition ; Laws of Production and Distri 
bution : Theories of Capital and Interests ; Theory of 
International Trade . 

Economic Dynamicg; National Income approach ; 
Theory of Employment in a closed and in an open eco 
nomy; Theories of the Trade Cycle ; Taxation and 
public expendituro in a welfare State ; Theories of Eco 
nomic Development; Theory of Economic Planning. 
ADVANCED INDIAN ECONOMICS : 

Scope and nature of the Indian Economic Problem ; 
Resources and Requirments ; Population Trends and 
Population Policy ; Indian Agriculture, Technological 
institutional, social, legislative and financial aspects ; 
Agrarian Reform ; The Food Problem ; River Valley 
Schemes ; Industrial Development, Fiscal Policy ; Fore 
ign and Inland Trade; Balance of Payments ; Currency 
and Prices in India , The Reserve Bank and its work 
log ; The banking system and Indian economic develop 
mont; Taxation and Expenditure ; National Income; 
Mects of the two World Wars on Indian Economy; 


POLITICAL ORGANISATION AND PUBLIC 

ADMINISTRATION 
( i) Political Institutions — The rise of Modern Nation 
al States . Parliamentary and Presidential forms of 
Government. Unitary and Federal Governments . The 
Legislature . The executive and the Judiciary . Methods 
of Representation . The Communistic and Totalitarian 
forms of Government. 

(11) Public Administration The scope and nature of 
Public Administration . Rise of public administration 
in the 19th Century . Principles of administration 818 
derived from the working of the Civil Services of 
England , France and India , Problems of personnel 
Selection and traloing. The desirability of a scientifc 
and economic Civil Service . Relationship of the Civil 
Servant with the public . 

( 11l ) The growth of public Corporation . 
ADVANCED METAPHYSICS AND EPISTEMOLOGY : 

Candidates will be expected to be familiar with the 
views of prominent philosophers from Kant to the Pre 
sent Day . Questions may be set on any of the follow 
ing topics : 
1. The sources , materials, varieties, limita, and cri 

teria of knowledge . 
Truth , Falsehood and Error. 
2 . Theories of reality . Reality and existence , Mon 

ism , Dualism and Pluralism . Post -Hegelian 
Idealism , Radical Empiricism . Creative Evolu 
tion , New Realism , Neutral Monism , Logical 

Positivism . 
ADVANCED PSYCHOLOGY INCLUDING EXPERI 

MENTAL PSYCHOLOGY 
1 . Scope, subject matter , and Methods of Psycho 

logy . 
2 . Relation of Psychology with physiology , the 

Social Sciences and Medicine, 
3 . Heredity and environment. 

The development of the individual. 
Motivation , Feeling and emotion . 
Sensation , perception and observation , 
Learning, memory, imagination and thinking. 

Theories of personality . 
4 . Individual Differences, Measurement of intel 

ligence and other abilities . Temperamental 

and personality tests . 
6 . Schools of Modern Psychology . 
The Introspectionists, the Hormic School Beha 

viourism , Gestalt, the Psycho- Analytical 
and allied Schools . 


MEDIEVAL CIVILISATION AS REFLECTED 

IN ARABIC LITERATURE 

(570 A .D . -- 1650 A .D .) 
The paper will test the candidate s knowledge of 
geography , history and social, political and religious 
evolution and developments. 
MEDIEVAL CIVILISATION AS REFLECTED 

IN PERSIAN LITERATURE 

(570 A . D . - 1650 A . D .) 
The paper will test the candidate s knowledge of 
geography, history and social, political and riglou 
evolution and developments , 
ANCIENT INDIAN CIVILIZATION AND PHILO 

SOPHY 
The history of the Civilization , Philosophy and 
thought of India from 2000 B .C . to 1200 A . D . 

Note . The paper will test the knowledge of 500 
graphy, history, and social, political and religious evo 
lution and developments . Questions may be set which 
require an acquaintance wiht archeological dig 
coverleg 


PART I - Sec . 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 


59 


ANTHROPOLOGY : 

Physical Anthropology - - its definition and scope. The 
Geological and Zoological background of physical an 
thropology . The origin of species -- the roles of here 
dity - selection and environment in the formation of 
species . Human Evolution - Man s place among the 
primates - - time and place of anthropogenesis . Early 
types of Man - Palaeoanthropic man and Neanthropic 
Man - - Homo Sapiens. Problems of race differences and 
the classification of living races . 

Measurement and quantitative treatment of the 
somatic differences in Man . Craniometry and Osteo 
me- ry , Significance of blood group distribution , 


Oceanography . Origin of the Oceans and Seas . Floor 
of the Oceans. Temperature, salinity . Sea -bottom de 
posits and their classification , Ocean circulation ; waves 
currents and tides . 

Economic Geography. Influence of Environment on 
the Economic activities of man . Primary production . 
Agriculture as an economic activity. Production of 
major foodstuffs. Beverage crops and raw materials of 
modern industry . Fishing. Forests Minerals and min 
ing. Power resources of the world . Secondary pro 
duction . Chlet manufacturing Industries . Transport. 
Elleet of inland waterways on the industrial develop 
ment of important regions. Influence of road and rail 
in the opening of new regions, Main ocean - routes, air 
routes and their geographical importance . 


APPENDIX III 


Fees 


Relationship between Physical and mental traits. 

Scope of Social Anthropology . Relation between an 
thropology and sociology and other social sciences . 
Methods of study , Meterials of observation . Evolu 
tionary anthropogeographical, historical, functional and 
psychological approaches . 

Family , clan , types of social structure, their distri 
bution and origin . 

Forms of marriage. Methods of securing wife , bride 
price dowry, dlvorce and compensation , Kinship , Prl 
mitive government and social structure . 

Myths In primitive life , art , ritual and tradition ; 
Magical beliefs and practices. The concept of the 
supernatural. Religious sacrifice and taboo . 

Principles of primitive economics. Types of econo 
mic structure. Division of labour , values , individual 
Ism and collectivism . Inter- tribal and intra - tribal ex 
change of goods and services. 


Distribution of tribal groups in India - Levels of Cul 
tural development represented by them ; problems of 
tribal rehabiltation , adaptation , acculturation and 
assimilation of tribal groups. Methods adopted in the 
various States for tribal welfare . 


Candidates must pay the following fees : - 

A . To the Union Public Service Commission . Appli 
cațion and examination fee of Rs. 82- 8 - 0 (Rs. 20 - 10 -0 
in the case of candidates belonging to the Scheduled 
Castes and Scheduled Tribes) of which Re. 1 should 
be paid by Money Order when asking for application 
form and connected documents and the rest in the form 
of a treasury receipt or CROSSED Indian Postal Orders 
payable to the Secretary, Union Public Service Com 
mission The Commission cannot accept any other 
arrangement. 

NOTE . --- The Commission may , at their discretion 
remit the prescribed application and examination tee 
where they are satisfied that the applicant is a bona 
fide displaced person from Pakistan or from the un 
liberated areas of Jammu & Kashmir and is not in a 
position to pay the prescribed fee . 

B . To the Medical Board . - Rs. 16 before examination 
bv a Medical Board in the case of candidates who 
are asked to appear before a Medical Board . 

Candidates are required to pay their medical fee in 
cash to the Medical Boards concerned at the time of 
their medical examination , 

No claim for a refund of these fees will ordinarily be 
entertained , nor can these be held in reserve for any 
other examination or selection . A refund of Rs. 75 
( Rs. 18 - 12 - 0 in the case of candidates belonging to the 
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes) will, however , 
be allowrd to a candidate who has paid the consolidat 
od fee of Ra 82 -8 - 0 (RS 20 - 10 -n in the case of candi 
dates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Trth - s) hut who is not admitted to the examination by 
the Commission . 

NOTE --- " Scheduled Castes” means any of the castes 
mentioned in Appendix V to these Rules. Scheduled 
Tribes are those given in Appendix VI to these 
Rules . 


SOCIOLOGY : 

Scope of Sociology . Relations with the Social and 
natural sciences. Methods. 

Origins of Society . Primitive life . Stages of social 
evolution , Social heritage; its mechanisms. Orders of 
environment. Types of behaviour. 

Social Structure. Groups. Institutions, Associations , 
Family , Marriage, Status, Class , Community . Herd and 
Crowd. Occupation Property , Personality . Culture 
and Civilization . Myths and Legends. Language and 
Speech , Race , Contracts and their types. State. Morals 
and their evolution , Habits , Customs. Mores and Folk 
way . . 


APPENDIX IV 


Brief particulars relating to the Services to which 
recruitment is being made through this Examination . 
( Detailed information may, if desired , be obtained from 
the Ministry concerned ). 


Social Change. Technological, economic , demogra 
phic forces, 

Paychological factors . Interaction , imitation, diffu 
sion . Cultural factors. Role of ideas . Leadership . 
Laws of social change and social selection , 

Social Processes , Competition . Differentiation . Col 
lectivisation . Types of Conflict. Distribution of Wealth . 
Social Ecology , 

Social maladjustment. Mass culture . City and Vil 
lage. Crime, Social Evils . 

Social Control. Agencies . The State and the Law . 
Welfare State . Religion . Art. Education Public opi 
nion and Propaganda. 

Social Planning . Its principles . Indian conditions. 
Social Work and Welfare . 

Social Security , Purpose and Progress. 

History of Social Thought. Materialistic and Sociolo 
gical schools, Indian contribution in the light of Indian 
Culture. 

Elementary Social Statistics , Techniques of Social 
Survoys . 
HIGHER GEOGRAPHY : 

Geomorphology. The Earth , Isostasy . Selsmology , 
Land forms. Origin of the continents . Origin and forms 
of the mountains. Earth Movements . Tension in the 
crust of the earth , Its causes and results , rift - valleys . 


1. Indian Administrative Service - ( a ) Appointments 
will be made on probation for a period of one year 
which may be extended . Successful candidates will 
be required to undergo probation at such place and in 
such manner and pass such examinations during the 
period of probation as the Government of India may 
determine. 


( b ) Tf, in the opinion of Government, the work or 
conduct of an officer on probation is unsatisfactory or 
shows that he is unlikely to become eficient, Gov 
ernment may discharge him forthwith . 


( c ) On the conclusion of his period of probation , 
Government may confirm the officer in his appointment 
for, it his work or conduct has in the opinion of 
Government been unsatisfactory Government may 
wither discharge him from the Service or may extend 
his period of probation for such further period AB 
Government may think flt . 


( d ) If the power to make appointments in the Ser 
vire is relegated by Government to any officer , that 
officer may exercise any of the powers of Government 
under clauses ( b ) and ( c ) above. 


Climatology , Structure of the atmosphere. Radia 
tion . Insolation and temperature . Geographical distri 
bution of temperature. Major regions of pressure and 
seasonal variations. Air masses and fronts . Principal 
types of pressure systems and their weather signif 
cance. Vapour in the atmosphere. Atmospheric elec 
tricity . Atmospheric optics . Weather analysis and 
weather forecasting . 


( e ) An officer belonging to the Indian Administrative 
Service will be liable to serve anywhere in India 
either under the Central Government or under a State 
Government. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 

[ PART I - Sec. 1 
= -SY 

= = - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - - 
(1) Scales of pay: 

3 . Indian Police Service . - ( a ) Appolatment wlu bo 

made on probation for a period of two years which may 
Junior Scale : Rs. 350 - 400 — 450 - 450 - 500 - 540 

be extended . Successful candidates will be required 
30 ---600E . B . — 304870 — 40950 ( 19 yearg) . to undergo probation at such place and in such manner 

and pass such examinations during the period of pro 
Senior Scale : Rs. 800 (8th year or under ) - 50 

bation as Government may determine. 
1 ,000 — 60 — 1, 300 - - 50 - 1 ,800 (25 years ) . 

( b ) ,) 
A probationer will be started on the Junior time scale ( c ) Ag in clauses ( b ) , ( c ) and (d ) for the Indian 
and permitted to count the period spent on probation 

( d ). J Administrative Service , 
towards leave , pension or increment in the time scale . 
( g ) Provident Fund .- - Pendtag the traming of se 

( e ) ( 1) An officer belonging to the Indian Polico 
parate Provident Fund Rules for the Indian Admin 

Service will be hable to serve anywhere in India 
istrative Service , officers of this Service are eligible to 

elther under the Central Government or under a Stato 
subscribe to the General Provident Fund (Central 

Government. 
Service ) . The minimum rate of subscription to this 

(li ) All vacancies in tho cadre of a particular State 
Fund is one anna in the rupee at present 

to be Alled on the results of the competitive exami 
(b ) Leave .-- Pending the framing of separate Leave 

nation shall so far as may be and subject to a general 
Rules for the Indian Administrative Service , officerı 

or special order of the Central Government, be Allad 
of this Service are entitled to leave under the revised 

from among the successful candidates ordinarlly 
Leave Rules applicable to officers of the Central Ser 

residing in the State or in a Part " C " State adjacent 
vices , Class I. 

to such Stato . 
( 1) Medical Attendance . - Oficers of the Indian 

( f) Scales of pay: 
Administrative Service are entitled to medical 

Junior Scale : Rs. 350 - 350 — 380 — 380 — 30 - - 800 
attendance benefits admissible under the All India 

E B . - - 30 - 770 - 40 – 850 ( 19 years ) . 
Services (Medical Attendance) Rules 1954 , 

Senior Scale : Rs, 600 (0th year or under )- - 40 
(1) Retirement Benefits. The terms are at present 

1 ,000 - - 1, 000 / - 1 , 050 - - 1 ,050 - - 1, 100 - - 1 , 100 - - 1 , 150 
under consideration . 

( in the 22nd year) . 
2 . Indian Foreign Service . ( a ) Appointment will be 

Selection Grade: Rs. 1,250 . 
made on probation for a period which will not ordinarily 

NOTE . - Posts remunerated above the time- scale (i. e , 
exceed 3 years. Successful candidates will be required 

Inspectors General of Police , Deputy - Inspectors Gene 
to attend a preliminary course of lectures for three 

eral of Police, and Superintendents of Police on the 
months in India and will then be sent abroad for 

Selection Grade ) constitute 20 per cent. of Senior 
training for 18 months, a part of which will be spent 

posts under each State Government. 
in a foreign University , where they will be required 
to study such subjects as are prescribed and a foreign 

( 8 ) 1 
language . On completion of training abroad proba 

( hi ) } Ag in clauses ( g ), ( b ) and ( i ) for the 
tioners will be required to undergo further training in 

(1) Indian Administrative Service . 
India . During their period of training , the probation 
ers will be required to pass one or more examinations 

(1) It has been provisionally decided that officers 
before they become eligible for confirmation in the 

of the Indian Police Service shall be entitled to re 
Service. 

tirement - cum - death beneft according to the same scale 

and pattern as applicable to officers of the Central 
( b ) On the conclusion of his period of probation 

Services , Class I. 
and on his passing the prescribed examinations 

4 . Indian Audit and Accounts Service , 
Government may confirm the officer in his appoint. 
ment, or if his work or conduct has in the opinion 

5 . Indian Defence Accounts Service , 
of Government. been unsatisfactory , Government may 8 . Indian Railway Accounts Service , and 
either discharge him from the Service or may extend 

7 . Indian Customs and Excise Service. 
his period of probation for such further period ag 
Government may think At. 

(a ) Appointments will be made on probation for a 

period of 2 years , provided that this period may be 
( c ) It, in the opinion of Government, the work or extended if the officer on probation has not qualified 
conduct of an officer on probation is unsatisfactory or for confirmation by passing the prescribed depart 
shows that he is not likely to prove suitable for the mental examinations. Repeated failure to pass the 
Foreign Service , Government may discharge him departmental examinations within a period of 3 years 
forthwith . 

will involve loss of appointment. 
(d ) If the power to make appointments in the Ser 

( b ) Probationers of the Indian Railway Accounts 
vice is delegated by Government to any officer , that 

Service will also be required to undergo a course of 
officer may exercise any of the powers of Government 

training at the Railway Staff College, Baroda, and to 
under clauses (b ) and ( c ) above . 

pass the test prescribed by the College authorities 

They may, however , be put on to a working post on 
( e ) Scales of pay : 

satisfactory completion of two years training , but they 

may not be confrmed till they have passed the test 
Junior Scale : Rs. 3 50 — 400 - 450 - 450 - 500 — 540 at the Rallway Staff College. Baroda, and passed the 

30 - 600E . B . - 30 — 870 – 40 - 950 ( 19 years ) . higher and lower departmental examinations. 
Senior Scale : Rs. 800 (6th year or under ) - 80 — 

( c ) Probationers of the Indian Railway Accounts 
1, 000 -- 80 — 1, 300 -- 50 - - 1 .800 (25 years ) . 

Service will be required to pass a language examina 
( 1 ) A probationer will receive the following pay 

tion in Hindi by the lower standard, modified to suit 

the requirements of the Railways before their pay can 
during probation 

be raised from Rs. 350 to Rs. 380 in the time scale dur 
First year Rs. 950 per mensem . 

ing the period of their probation , Probationers who 
Second year As. 400 per mensen 

can read , write and speak in Hindi, may be exempted 

by the General Manager from passing the language 
Third year Rs. 480 per mensem . 

examination . Failure to pass the examination within 
This may be supplemented as necessary with an 

the probationary period involves lability to removal 
allowance towards the cost of training abroad . 

from gervice. 
NOTE . - Annual increments during probation will be 

( d ) If for any reasons considered within his control. 
contingent on the probationer Dassing the prescribed 

a probationer in the Indian Railway Accounts Servire 
tests if any and showing progress to the satisfaction 

wishes to withdraw from training , he will be liable 
of Government. 

to refund the whole cost of his training and any other 

moneys paid to him during the period of his proba 
On successful completion of probation , a probationer 

tion . 
will be confirmed in the Indian Foreign Service. 
( 8 ) An officer belonging to the Indian Foreign Ser 

(e ) If, in the opinion of Government or the 
vice will be llable to serve anywhere inside or out Comptroller and Auditor General, as the case may be. 
side India . 

the work or conduct of an officer on probation lg un 

satisiactory , or shows that he is unlikely to become 
(b ) The Revised Leave Rules, 1933 , as amended efficient, Government may discharge him forthwith . 
from time to time will apply to Members of the Sor 
vice gubject to certain modificationg. Conditions in 

( 1 ) On the conclusion of his period of proba 
regard to Pension etc ., will be determined by Govaro tion , Government or the Comptroller and Auditor 
nuent later, 

General as the case may be mey eonArm the omad 


eith Governm ble wconfirme 


PART I Sec. 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1983 


in his appointment or if his work or conduct 
has , in the opinion of Government or the Comptroller 
and Auditor General , as the case may be, been un 
satisfactory , Government may either discharge him 
from the service or may extend his period of 
probation for such further period as Government 
may think fit , provided that in respect of appointments 
to temporary Vacancies there will be no claim to 
confirmation , 

NOTE. - A reference is also invited to the last but 
one sub - paragraph of Rule 3 of the main Rule . 

( g ) The Indian Defence Accounts Service carries 
with it a definite liability for service in any part of 
India as well as for Field Service in or out of India , 

( h ) Scales of Pay : 
Indian Audit and Accounts Service ; 
Junior Scale : Rs. 350 - 350 - 380 - 380 - 30 - 590 

- E , B . - 30 - 770 - 40 ~ 850 , 
Senior Scale : Rs. 600 ( 6th year or under ) - 40 % 

1,000 , - 1, 000--- 1,050 – 1,050 – 1, 100 — 1, 100 _ - 1, 150 . 
Junior Administrative grades : Rs. 1, 300 - 60 

1, 600-- 1, 600 - 100 _ 1, 800 . 
Senior Administrative grades : Rs. 1,800 — 100 

2 ,000 — 2,000 - 125 — 2,250 . 
NOTE 1. - Probationary officers will start on the 
minimum of the Junior Scale and will count their 
service for increments from the date of joining . 

NOTE 2 . — The officers on probation will not be 
allowed the pay above the stage of Rs. 350 unless they 
pass the departmental examination in accordance with 
the rules which will be prescribed from time to time. 
Indian Defence Accounts Service: 
Junior Scale : Rs. 350 - 350 — 380 - 380 — 30 - 590 % 

E B . - 30 _ 770 — 40 – 850. 
Senior Scale : Rs. 600 (6th year or under ) - - 40 

1,000 _ - 1, 000 — 1,050 _ - 1,050 — 1, 100_ - 1, 100 - - 1 ,150 . 
Junior Administrative grade: Rs. 1, 300 -- 10 - - 1,600 . 
Senior Administrative grade: Rs. 1,800 _ - 100 — 2 ,000 . 
Controller -General of Defence Accounts : Under 

consideration . 
Indian Railway Accounts Service : 
( a ) Junior Scale : Rs. 350 – 350 - 380 _ - 380 - 30 - - 

590 - E . B . - -30- 770 - - 10 - 850 . 
Senior Scale : Rs. 600 ( 6th year or under ) - 40% 

1, 000 ~ 1 ,000 — 1 ,050 — 1,050 – 1, 100 — 1, 100 — 1, 150. 
Junior Administrative grade : Rs. 1,300 _ 60 _ - 1 ,600 . 
Senior Administrative grade: Rs. 1,800 - 100 

2 ,000 — 125 — 2 ,250. 


Collectors of Customs, Grade I Rs. 1,800 — 100 

2 ,000 . 
Deputy Collectors of Central Excise - Rs. 1,000 — 50 

- 1 , 400 . 
Collectors of Central Excise , Grade 11 --Rs. 1, 300 

60 - 1, 600 . 
Collectors of Central Excise , Grade 1 - Rs . 1,800 -- 

- 100 — 2 ,000 . 
NOTE 1. - The officer on probation will not be 
allowed the pay above the stage of Rs. 350 unless he 
passes the departmental examination in accordance 
with the rules which will be prescribed from time to 
time. 

NOTE 2 . - It should be clearly understood by proba 
tioners that their appointment would be subject to 
any change in the constitution of the Indian Customs 
and Excise Service which the Government of India 
may think proper to make from time to time and that 
they would have no claim for compensation in 
consequence of any such changes . 

8 . Indian Income-tar Service Class 1. - ( a ) Appoint 
ments will be made on probation for a period of 2 
years provided that this period may be extended it 
the officer on probation has not qualified for confirma 
tion by passing the prescribed departmental examina 
tions. Repeated failures to pass the departmental exa 
minations within a period of 3 years will involve logs 
of appointment. 

( b ) If , in the opinion of Government, the work or 
conduct of an officer on probation is unsatisfactory 
or shows that he is unlikely to become efficient, 
Government may discharge him forthwith . 

( c ) On the conclusion of his period of probation , 
Government may confirm the oflcer in his appoint 
ment, or if his work of conduct has in the opinion of 
Government been unsatisfactory , Government may 
either discharge him from the service or may extend 
his period of probation for such further period as 
Government may think flt; provided that in respect of 
appoints to temporary vacancies there will be no 
claim to confirmation . 

( d ) If the power to make appointments in the service 
is delegated by Government to any ofcer , that officer 
may exercise any of the powers of Government 
described in the above clauses . 

( e) Scales of Pay : 
Grade II : 
Time Scale: Rs. 350 --- 350- - 380 — 380 — 30 — 590 — 

E . B . - 30 - 770 - 40 - 850 . 
Grade 1: 
Time Scale : Rs. 600 - 40 – 1,000 _w1,000 - - 1,050 

1, 050 – 1, 100 - - 1 , 100 — 1, 150 . 
Assistant Commissioners of Income-tax . 

Rs. 1,000 — 50 _- 1,400 . 
Commissioners of Income Tax , Grade II: 

Rs. 1,300 — 60 - 1 ,600 . 
Commissioners of Income Tax , Grade I: 

Rs. 1, 800 - 100 — 2,000 . 
NOTE 1 . - The officer on probation will not be 
allowed the pay above the stage of Rs. 350 unless he 
passes the departmental examinations in accordance 
with the rules which will be prescribed from time to 
time. 

NOTE 2 . It should be clearly understood by pro 
bationers that their appointment would be subject to 
any change in the constitution of the Income Tax 
Şervice Class I which the Government of India may 
think proper to make from time to time and that they 
would have no claim tor compensation in consequence 
of any such changes. 

9 . Transportation ( Traffic ) and Commercial Depart 
ments of the Superior Revenue Establishment of Indian 
Railways : 

( a ) Candidates selected for appointment will be 
appointed as probationary officers in the Transporta 
tion ( Traffic ) and Commercial Departments for a period 
of three years during which they will undergo the 
training as indicated in para, r , and put in a minimum 
period of one year s probation in a working post. If 
the period of training has to be extended in any case, 
due to the training having not been completed satis 
factorily , the total period of probation will be corres 
pondingly extended . 

( b ) If for any reasons considered within his control. 
a probationer in the Transportation ( Traffic ) and Com 
mercial Department wishes to withdraw from training , 
he will be liable to refund the whole cost of his train 
ing and any other moneys paid to him during the 
period of his probation , 


( b ) On appointment, a probationer shall execute an 

agreement binding himself and one gurety 
jointly and severally to refund in the event 
of his failing to complete probation to the 
satisfaction of the Central Government, any 
moneys paid to him consequent on his ap 

pointment as probationer . 
( c ) Increment from Rs. 350 to Rs . 380 will be 

stoppod if they fail to pass Departmental 
examination within the two years probationary 
period . In cases where the probationary 
period has to be extended for failing to pass 
all the Departmental examinations within the 
stipulated period on their passing Depart 
mental examinations and being confirmed after 
expiry of the extended period of probation , 
they will be allowed to draw the increments 
only from the date following that on which 
the last examination ends; this will not affect 

the date of their future incrementa , 
NOTE. Probationary officers will start on the mini 
mum of the Junior Scale and will count their service 
for increments from the date of joining . They will , 
however be required to pass any departmental exa 
mination or examinations that may be prescribed 
before their pay can be raised from Rs . 350 p . m , to 
Rs. 380 p .m . in the time scale . 


Indian Customs and Excise Service : 
Time Scale : 
( 1) Rs. 350 _ - 350 - 380 - 380 — 30 - 590 - E . B . - - 30 

770 — 40 - 850 ( Junior Scale ) . 
(ii) Rs. 600 — 40 - 1.000 - 1.000 — 1,050 – 1,050 – 1,100 

- 1 , 100 - - 1, 150 ( Senior Scale ) . 
Deputy Collectors of Customs- -Rs. 1,000 — 50 – 1,400 
Collectors of Customs, Grado II - Rs. 1, 800 -- 10 

- 1 .600 . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


[ PART I- SEC. 1 


following that on which the last examination ends; 
this will not affect the date of their future increments . 

( m ) The increments will be given for approved 
service only and in accordance with rules of the 
Department. 

(n ) Promotions to the administrative grades are 
dependent on the occurrence of vacancies in the 
sanctioned establishment and are made wholly by 
selection ; mere seniority is considered to confer no 
claim to promotion . 

( 0 ) The administrative appointments in the Trans 
portation ( Traffic ) Department are also open to off 
cers of the Transportation ( Power ) Department. 


( p ) The administrative appointments are not 
reserved for officers of the Transportation ( Trafic) 
and Commercial or Transportation (Power ) Depart 
ments of the Superior Revenue Establishment of 
Indian Railways, and the Government of India re 
serve the right to appoint at their discretion , an 
officer of any department of a Railway to any of 
these posts . 


( 9 ) Officers of the Transportation ( Traffic ) and Com 
mercial Departments are eligible for appointment to 
administrative posts in the Agency and the Division . 


( r ) Courses of training for probationers in the 
Transportation ( Traffic) and Commercial Departments . 

Note 1. - - The Government of India reserve the right 
to reduce at their discretion , the period of training in 
the case of candidates who have had previous train 
ing or experience either in the United Kingdom or 
India . 

Note 2 . - Probationers will be required to undergo 
& course of training at the Railway Staff College, 
Baroda, and to pass the test prescribed by the College 
authorities . The probationers will not be confirmed 
till they have passed it, their training and probationary 
period being extended accordingly . 

Note 3 . — The programmes of training glyen below 
have been drawn up chiefly for the purpose of gui 
dance; they may be varied at the discretion of General 
Managers to suit particular cases provided that the 
total aggregate period of training is not ordinarily 
curtailed . 


( c) During this probationary period the agreement 
which probationary officers are required to sign may 
be terminated by three months notice on either side. 

( d ) At the conclusion of the probationary term of 
3 years , officers , who have passed the written and oral 
tests prescribed in the subjects in which they have 
been trained , and , whose work and conduct has in the 
opinion of Government been found satisfactory will 
be confirmed in the Transportation ( Traffic ) and 
Commercial Departments . On confirmation their 
agreement will be continued subject to their servire 
being terminable on six months notice on either side, 
Failure to pass the prescribed written and oral tests 
involves liability to removal from service . 

( e ) Within 5 years of their appointment as proba 
tioners , officers may be allocated to the Transportation 
( Traffic ) or the Commercial Department. They will 
thereafter , continue in the Department to which they 
are allotted unless it is considered necessary in the 
public interest to transfer any particular officer from 
one to the other Department. 

On appointment, a probationer shall execute an 
agreement binding himself and one surety jointly and 
severally to refund in the event of his failing to com 
plete probation to the satisfaction of the Central Gov 
ernment, any moneys paid to him consequent on his 
appointment as probationer . 

( f ) Probationers will be required to pass a language 
examination in Hindi by the lower standard , modified 
to suit the requirements of the Railways before their 
pay can be raised from Rs. 350 to Rs. 380 in the time 
scale during the period of their probation . Probationers 
who can read , write and speak in Hindi, may be 
exempted by the General Manager from passing thr 
language examination Failure to pass the examination 
within the probationary period involves liability to 
removal from service . 

( 8 ) Officers ( including probationers ) of the Trans 
portation ( Traffic ) and Commercial Departments of 
the Superior Revenue Establishment of Indian Rail 
ways recruited under these rules, will not be entitled 
to pension on quiting the service , but will be eligible 
throughout their service for the benefits of the 
Indian Railway Provident Fund, to which they will 
be required to subscribe, and by the rules of which 
Fund they will be required to abide . 

( h ) Pay will commence from the date of joining 
service . Service for increments will also count from 
that date . 

(1) Officers recruited under these rules shall be 
eligible for leave in accordance with the rules for the 
time being in force applicable to officers of Indian 
Railways . 

(1 ) Oncers will ordinarily be employed throughout 
their service on the railway to which they may be 
posted on first appointment and will have no claim as 
a matter of right to transfer to some other Railway . 
But the Government of India reserve the right to 
transter such officers in the exigencies of service to 
any other railway or project in or out of India . 

( k ) The relative seniority of officers appointed will 
ordinarily be determined by their order of merit in 
the competitive examination , if the period of training 
and consequently the period of probation has to be 
extended in any particular case due to the training 
having not been completed satisfactorily , the officer 
will be liable to lose in seniority . The Government of 
India , however , reserve the right of fixing seniority 
at their discretion in individual cases . They also 
reserve the right of assigning to officers appointed 
otherwise than by a competitive examination positions 
in the seniority list at their discretion . 
( 1) Scales of Pay : 
Junior Scale : Rs. 350 — 350 — 380 — 380 -- 30 - 590 

E . B . - 30 — 770 - 40 - - 850 . 
Senior Scale : Rs. 600 ( 1st to 6th year ) — 40 — 1 ,000 

- 1, 000 - 1 .050 – 1, 050 — 1 , 100 — 1, 100 1, 150. 
Junior Administrative grade: Rs. 1, 300 — 60 - 1,600 . 
Senior Administrative grade : Rs . 1,800 — 100 — 2,000 

-- 125 — 2 , 250 . 
NOTE , -- Probationary officers will start on the mind 
mum of the Junior Scale and will count their service 
for increments from the date of joining. They will 
however . be required to pass any departmental 
examination or examinations that may be prescribed 
before their pay can be raised from Rs. 350 p . m . to 
Rs. 380 p .m , in the time scale . 

Increment from Rs . 350 to Rs. 380 will be stopped 
If they fail to pass the Departmental examinations 
within the first two years of the training and pro 
bationary period . In cases where the training period 
has to be extended for failing to pass all the Depart 
mental Examinations within the stipulated period , on 
their passing the departmental examinations after ex 
piry of the extended period of training, they will be 
allowed to draw the increments only from the date 


( 1 ) Length of Course - - Two years, 

Month , 
Training in Baroda Staff College - once lo cach 

of the two years . . . . . 
Arca School to learn Guard s dutica etc . . 
Working as Guard * . . . . . 
Attached to Yard Master 
Posted to Goods and Transhipment Shed . 
Traffic Accounts, including personal preparation 

of Balance Sheet at Stations . . . 
Arca School to qualify as Assistant Station 

Master . . . . . . . 
Working as Assistant Station Master , Station 

Master and Yard Forcman 
Working as Assistant Locomotive Foreman * . 
Working as Assistant Controller . . 
Training in District or Divisional office . 
Tralding in Headquarters office (Operating ) 

Training in Headquarters office (Commercial) 


TOTAL . 


. 


24 


( 2 ) Provided he passes the examination at the end 
of his two years training a probationer will be given 
charge of a working post on probation for a further 
year . 

( 3 ) Examination will be held as may be required at 
the close of courses as well as at intervals during the 
period of training. 

*NOTE , - Before a probationer is put to work inde 
pendently as a Guard , Assistant Station Master , Station 
Master , Yard Foreman , Assistant Locomotive Foreman , 
or Assistant Controller , he must be examined by a 
responsible officer of the administration in the respec 
tive duties for each of these posts and declared quali 
fled . 

10 . Indian Postal Service (Class I). — ( a ) Selected 
candidates will be under training in this department 
for a period which will not ordinarily exceed two 
years. During this period they will be required to 
pass the prescribed departmental test . 


PART 1 


c. 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1966 


R 


CLASS I 

Senior Scalo 
(111) Deputy A3518tant Directors , 

Mity . Landsand Cantonments, 
Mily , Estates Officers and 
Executive Officers (Grade I.) 


600401 , 000 
1, 000 — 1 ,050 — 1,050 
1, 100 — 1, 100 - 1, 150 . 


Junior Scale 
(10 ) Executive Officers (Grade II) , Rs 350 — - 350 - 380 — 380 

- 30 - 590 - E . B . - 30 

-- 770 - 40 - 850 
CLASS II 
(0 ) Executive Officers , ( Class II) , Rs. 27 — 25 — 300 - E . B . 

- - 30 - 6 0 - E . B . - 30 
- -800 . 


( g ) (1) Class I Officers (Grades I and II) will nor 
mally bę appointed as Deputy Assistant Directors , 
Military Estates Officers, and as Executive Officers to 
Class I Cantonments and Class II Cantonments to 
which sub - clause ( 1 ) of clause ( e ) of sub -section ( 4 ) 
of section 13 of the Cantonments Act, 1924 is applica 


ble . 


(b ) If , in the opinion of Government, the work or 
conduct of an ofncer under training is unsatisfactory 
or shows that he is unlikely to become efficient, Gov 
ernment may discharge him forthwith . 

( c ) On the conclusion of his period of training Gov 
ernment may confirm the officer in his appointment 
or , if his work or conduct has in the opinion of Gov 
ernment been unsatisfactory , Government may either 
discharge him from the service or may extend his 
period of training for such further period as Govern 
ment may think it. 

( d ) If the power to make appointments in the ser 
vice is delegated by Government to any officer , that 
officer may exercise any of the powers of Government 
described in the above clauses . 
(a) Scales of Pay : 
Junior Time Scale : Rs. 350 — 350 — 38038030 – 

590 — E . B . - 30 - 770 — 40 – 850 . 
(Oncers under training will draw pay in this time 
scale ) . 
Senior Time Scale : Rs. 600 — 401,000 --- 1,000 — 

1 ,050 - - 1, 0501 , 100 - - 1 , 100 -- 1 , 150 . 
Directors of Postal Services: Rs. 1,300 - 80 — 1,600 
Postmaster -General : Rs. 1, 800 — - 100 — 2 ,000. 
(1 ) An officer under training will not be eligible to 
draw the next increment unless he passes the depart 
mental examination . 

( 8 ) It should be clearly understood by probationers 
that their appointment would be subject to any change 
in the constitution of the Indian Postal Service , Class 
I, which Government of India may think proper to 
make from time to time and that they would have 
no claim for compensation in consequence of any such 
changes. 

11. Miutary lands and Cantonments Service (Class 1 
and Class II). 

( a ) A candidate selected for appointment shall be 
required to be on probation for a period which shall 
not ordinarily exceed 2 years. During this period he 
shall be required to undergo such course of train 
ing in Cantonment and Land Administration as may 
be prescribed by Government for a period of not less 
than six months. 

(b ) During the period of probation a candidate will 
be required to pass the prescribed departmental 
examination , 

( c ) ( 1) If in the opinion of Government the work or 
conduct of an Officer on probation is unsatisfactory 
or shows that he is unlikely to become efficient, 
Government may discharge him after apprising him 
of the grounds on which It is proposed to do so , and 
after giving him an opportunity to show cause in 
writing before such order to passed 

( 11 ) If at the conclusion of the period of probation 
an Oficer has not passed the Departmental Examina 
tion mentioned in sub - para ( b ) above Government 
may , in its discretion , either discharge him from ser 
vice , or if the circumstances of the case so warrant, 
extend the period of probation for such period not 
exceeding one year as Government may consider fit. 

( 111 ) On the conclusion of the period of probation 
Government may confirm an other in his appoint 
ment, or U his work or conduct has in the opinion 
of Government been unsatisfactory , Government may 
either discharge him after apprising him of the 
grounds on which it is proposed to do so and after 
giving him an opportunity to show cause in writing 
before such order is passed , or extend the period of 
probation for such further period as Government may 
consider fit . 

( d ) U no action is taken by Government under 
Sub - para ( c ) above , the period after the prescribed 
period of probation shall be treated as an engage 
ment from month to month , terminable on either side 
on the expiration of one calendar month s notice in 
writing , provided that the Officer shall have no claim 
to confirmation . 

( e ) No annual increment which may become due 
will be admissible to a member of the Service during 
his probation , unless he has passed the departmental 
etamination . An increment which was not thus 
drawn will be allowed from the date of passing of 
the departmental examination . 
(f) The scales of pay are as under : 

ADMIN _ STRATIVB Po $ T$ 


( 11) Class II Executive Officers will normally be 
appointed to Cantonments other than those mentioned 
in ( 1) above. 

( h ) ( 1) All promotions will be made by selection 
( seniority being considered only when the claims of 
two or more candidates are equal on merits ) by 
Government on the recommendations of a Depart 
mental Promotion Committee appointed in this behalt 
by the Government On promotion from Class II to 
Grade II of Class I, and from Grade II to Grade I of 
Class I, pay will be regulated under the Fundamental 
Rules 

(11) No officer will be promoted to Grade I of Class 
I before the completion of a total period of 6 years lo 
the Service ( Class I and / or Class II) . 

(1 ) The Revised Leave Rules, 1933 , as amended from 
time to time will apply 

( j ) No member of the Services shall undertake any 
work not connected with his official duties without the 
previous sanction of Government 

12 . The Central Secretariat Service. ( a ) The Central 
Secretariat Service will consist of three grades as 
follows: 

Grade 1 – Under Secretary Pay Rs 800 - 50 - - 1, 150 . 
Grade II — Superintendent Pay Rs. 530 - 30 — 800 . 
Grade III – Assistant Superintendent Pay Rs . 276 

— 25 — 500 
Direct recruitment 18 made to Grade III. 

( b ) Officers recruited direct to Grade III will be on 
probation for 2 years during which they will undergo 
such training and pass such Departmental tests as may 
be prescribed by Government. Failure to show suff 
cient progress in the course of training or to pass the 
tests will result in the discharge of the probationer 
from service 

( c ) On the conclusion of his period of probation , 
Government may confirm the officer in his appoint 
ment, or if his work or conduct has in the opinion of 
Government been unsatisfactory , Government may 
either discharge him from the Service or may extend 
his period of probation for such further period as 
Government may think At 

( d ) If the power to make appointments in the Ser 
vice is delegated by Government to any officer , that 
officer may exercise any of the powers of Government 
described in the above clauses 

( e ) Officers of Grade III who have acquired suffi 
cient expericnce by working in the Sections in the 
Secretariat and officer of Grade II will normally be 
heads of Sections while officers of Grade I will nor 
mally be in charge of Branches consisting of one or 
more Sections 


( f ) Omlcers of Grade III with at least 6 years ser 
vice in the grade will be eligible for promotion to 
Grade II and officers with a total service of 12 years 
in Grades II and III ( including at least 4 years in 
Grade II ) for promotion to Grade I Departmental 
tests may be prescribed to determine the suitability of 
candidates for promotion 

( 8 ) Officers of Grade I of the Central Secretariat 
Service will be eligible for appointment to the higher 
administrative posts in the Central Secretariat. 


(0) Director, Mily . Lands and Rs. 1,600 - 100 % 1 ,800 . 

Cantonments 
(it ) Deputy Director, Mily . Lands ( A ) R8, 1,300 - 60 — 1,600 . 
and Cantonments , 

(Onc appointment.) . 
( B ) Rs. 1,000 - 50 – 1,400 


( h ) As regards leave, pension and other conditions 
of service officers of the Central Secretariat Service 
will be treated similarly to other Class I and Class II 
officers , 


THE CAZETTE JE INDIA , FEBRUARY 12, 1965 


[PART 1SEC. 


APPENDIX V 
A candidate shall be held to be a member of the 
Scheduled Castes if he belongs to one of the castes 
specified in the list below under the State ( or area ) 
in which he and his family ordinarily reside. 

LIST OF SCHEDULED CASTES 


38 . Vitholla . 
2 Throughout the State except in Gujrat division : 

Mochi. 
3 . In North Kanara district: 

Kotegar. 


Madhya Pradogh 


Scheduled Castes 


Localities 


. 


Throughout the State, 


I. Bagor or Burud . 
2 , Bahna or Bahana , 
3 . Balahi or Balai 
4 . Chamar . 
5 . Dom . . 
6. Mang . 
7 . Mehtar or Bhangi , 
8 . Mochi , 
9 . Satnami 


10. Audhella 
11. Bedar . 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. In Bilaspur District . 
. În Akola , Amravati and Buldana 

districts. 
. In Bhandara and Sagar districts. 
. In Damoh sub -division of Sagar 

district. 


12 , Chadar . . . 
13 . Dahait or Dahayat . 


14 . Dewar . 


. 


. 


. 


In Bilaspur , Durg , Ralpur, 

Bastar , Sarguja and Raigarh 

districts . 
In Sagar district except in 

Damoh sub - division thereof, 


15 . Dhanuk 


. 


. 


. 


16 . Dohor . 


. 


. 


. 


In Akola , Amravati, Buldana , 

Yeotmal, Balaghat , Bhandara , 
Chanda , Nagpur and Wardhg 
districts . 


17 . Ghasi or Ghasia 


. 


. 


In Akola , Amravati, Buldana, 

Yeotmal, Balaghat , Bhandara , 
Bilaspur , Chanda , Durg , 
Wardha, Nagpur , Raipur, 
Sarguja , Bastar and Raigarh 
districte . 


Assam 
Throughout the State : - 

1 . Bansphor . 
2 . Bhuinmall or Mall. 
3 . Brittial - Bania or Bania , 
4 . Dhupi or Dhobi. 
5 . Dugla or Dholi . 
6 . Hira . 
7 . Jhalo or Malo . 
8 . Kaibartta or Jallya . 
9 . Lalbegi. 
10 . Mahara . 
11 , Mehtar or Bhangi. 
12 . Muchi. 
13 . Namasudra . 
14 . Patni. 
15 . Şutradhar , 

Bihar 
1. Throughout the State : - 

1 . Baurl 
2 . Bantar, 
3 . Bhogta . 
4 . Chamar. 
5 . Chaupal. 
6 . Dhobi. 
7 . Dom . 
8 . Dusadh , including Dhari or Dharhi. 
9 . Ghasi, 
10 . Halalkhor , 
11 . Hari, including Mehtar, 
12 . Kanjar . 
13 . Kurariar. 
14. Lalbegi. 
15 . Mochi. 
16 , Musahar . 
17 . Nat. 
18 . Pan . 
19 . Pasi. 
20 . Rajwar . 

21. Turi. 
2 . In Patna and Tirhut divisions, and the districts 
of Monghyr, Bhagalpur, Purnea and Palamau : - - 

Bhumij. 
3 . In Patna, Shahabad , Gaya and Palamau dis 
tricts : 

Bhulya . 
4 . In Shababad district : 
Dabgar . 

Bombay 
1. Throughout the State : 

1. Ager . 
2 . Asodi. 
3 . Bakad . 
4 . Bhambi. 
5 . Bhangi. 
8 . Chakrawadya -Dasar. 
7 . Chalvadi. 
8 . Chambhar , or Mochigar, or Samagar. 
9 . Chena -Dasaru , 
10 . Chuhar or Chuhra . 
11, Dakeleru . 
12 . Dhegu -Megu , 
13 . Dhor. 
14 . Garoda , 
15 . Halleer. 
16. Halsar, or Haslar, or Hulsavar . 
17. Holaya , or Garode . 
18 . Kolcha , or Kolgha , 
19 . Lingader . 
20 , Machigar , 
21 . Madig or Mang. 
22 . Mahar , 
23. Mabyavanshi. 
24 . Mangarudi, 
25 . Maghval, or Menghwar . 
26 . Mini Madig . 
27. Mukri, 
28 . Nadia . 
29 . Rohit. 
30 . Shenva , or Shindhaya . 
31 , Shingdav , or Shingadya . 
32 . Sochi. 
33. Timali. 
34 , Turi. 
36 . Vanker, 


18. Holiya . 


. 


. 


19. Kaikadi 


. 


. 


20 . Katla 


. 


. 


. 


. In Balaghat and Bhandara 

districts . 
In Akola , Amravati , Buldana, 

Yeotmal, Bhandara , Chanda , 

Nagpur and Wardha districte . 
. In Akola , Amravati, Buldana, 

Yeotmal, Balaghat, Berul, 
Bhandara , Bilaspur , Chenda , 
Durg , Nagpur , Nimar , 
Raipur , Wardha, Bastar, 
Sarguja and Raigarh districts ; 
in Hoshangabad and Seoni 
Malwa tahsīls of Hoshangabad 
district ; in Chhindwara 
district except in Seont sub 
division thereof ; and in 
Sagar district exc apt in 

Damoh gub - division thereof, 
. In Bhandara , Buldana and 

Sagar districts ; and in 
Hoshangabad and Seoni 
Malwa tahsils of Hoobanga 
bad district. 


21. Khangar 


. 


. 


22 . Kori 


, 


. 


. 


. 


In Amravati, Balaghat , Betul, 

Bhandara, Buldana, Chhind 
wara , Jabalpur, Mandla , 
Nimar, Raipur, Sagar, 
Durg , Bastar , Sarguja and 
Raigrah districts ; and in 
Hoshangabad district oxcept 
in Harda und Sohagpur 
tahsil thereof. 


23. Madgi . 


. 


. 


. 


In Akola , Amravat , Buldang, 

Ycotmal, Balaghat , Bhandara , 
Chanda , Nagpur and Wardha 
districts . 


24 . Mahar or Mehra . 


. 


Throughout the State except 

in Hardu and Sohagpur tahsil, 
of Hoshangabad district. 


25. Rujjhar 


. 


In Sohagpur tahsilof Hoshanga 

bad district . 


PART 1 - Sec . 1 ] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1985 

= - - = = 
Madras and Andhra 

17. Chachati, 

18 Chamar . 
Throughout each of the States:- - 

19 , Chandala (Chandal) . 
1 . Adi Andhra . 

20 . Cherua or Chhella . 
2 . Adi Dravida . 

21. Dandasi. 
3 . Adi Karnataka , 

22 . Desuabhumi). 
4 . Ajlla . 

23. Dewar 
5 . Arunthathiyar , 

24. Dhanwar . 
6 . Bajra. 

25. Dharua, 
7 . Bakuda. 

26 . Dhoba or Dhobi. 
8 . Bandi. 

27. Dom or Dombo , 
9 . Bariki. 

28 . Dosadha . 
10 . Bavuri . 

29 . Ganda . 
11. Bellara . 

30 . Ghantarghada or Ghantra . 
12 . Byagari. 

31. Ghasi or Ghasia . 
13 . Chachati. 

32. Ghogia . 
14 . Chakkiliyan . 

33. Ghusurla . 
15 . Chalavadi, 

34 . Godagall, 
16 . Chamar. 

35 . Godari. 
17. Chandala , 

36 . Godra. 
18 . Cheruman . 

37. Gokha . 
19 . Dandasi. 

38. Gunju or Ganju . 
20 . Deyandrakulathan , 

39. Haddi or Hadi or Hari. 
21 . Dom or Dombara , Paidi, Pano , 

40 . Irika. 
22 , Ghasi or Haddi, Reill Sachandi , 

41. Jaggali, 
23. Godagall. 

42. Kandra or Kandara . 
24 . Godari. 

43. Karua , 
25 . Godda , 

44 , Katia . 
26 . Gosangi. 

45 . Kela . 
27. Hasla , 

46 . Khadala , 
28 . Holeya 

47. Kodalo . 
29 . Jaggall, 

48. Kori. 
30 , Jambuvulu . 

49. Kumbhar. 
31, Kadan , 

50. Kurunga . 
32 . Kalladi , 

51 . Laban . 
33. Kanakkan , 

52. Laheri. 
34 . Karimpalan . 

53. Madari. 
35 , Kodalo . 

54. Madiga . 
36 . Koosa . 

35 . Mahurla . 
37. Koraga . 

56 . Mala or Jhala . 
38 . Kudubi. 

57. Mang. 
39 . Kudumban . 

58 . Mangan . 
40 . Kuravan , 

59. Mehra or Mahar . 
41. Kurichchan , 

60 . Mehtar or Bhangi. 
42 . Madari, 

61 . Mewar, 
43 . Madiga . 

62. Mochi or Muchi. 
44 . Malla . 

63. Mundapotta . 
45 . Mala (including Agency Malas ) 

64 . Nagarchi, 
46. Mala Dasu , 

65 . Paidi . 
47. Malasar . 

66 . Painda . 
48 . Matangl. 

67. Pamidi. 
49 . Mavilan , 

68. Pan or Pano . 
50 . Moger . 

69, Panchama. 
51. Muchi. 

70 . Panika , 
52 . Mundala , 

71 . Panka . 
53. Nalakeyava . 

72 . Pantanti . 
54, Nayadi. 

73 . Pap . 

74 . Pasi. 
55, Pagadal. 

76 . Patial or Patikar or Patratati or Patua. 
56 . Painda. 
57 . Paky . 

76 , Pradhan , 
38 . Pallan , 

77. Rajna , 

78 . Kelu . 
59. Pambada . 
60 , Pamidi. 

79 , Sabakhia , 

80 . Samasi. 
01. Panan . 

81. Sanel, 
62. Panchama, 

82. Sapari, 
63. Pannlandi 

83 . Satnami. 
64 . Paralyan . 

84. Sidhria . 
65 . Paravan . 

85 . Sinduria . 
66 . Pulayan . 

88 . Siyal . 
67. Puthirai Vannan 

87, Sukull, 
68. Raneyar 
69. Samagara 

88 . Tamadia , 

89 . Tamudia . 
70 , Samban . 

90 . Tiar or Tlor 
71. Sapari. 

91. Tur . 
72 . Semman . 
73 . Thoti 

92. Valamiki or Valmiki, 
74 , Tiruvalluvar, 
75 . Valluvan . 

Punjab 
76 . Valmiki, 
77. Vettuvan , 

Throughout the State 

1 . Ad Dharmi. 
Orissa 

2 . Bangali. 
Throughout the State : 

3 . Barar. 

4 . Batwal. 
1 . Adi - Andhra 

5 . Bawaria 
2 . Amant or Amat. 

6 . Bazigar. 
3 . Audhella . 

7. Balmiki or Chura . 
4 Badil, 

8 . Bhanjra . 
3 , Bagheti 

9 . Chamar . 
6 . Bajikar. 

10 . Chanal. 
7. Bart. 

11. Dagi. 
8 . Bariki. 

12 , Dhanak . 
9 . Basor or Burud 

13. Dumna or Mahasha . 
10 . Bauri , 

14 . Gagra . 
11. Bauti. 

15 . Gandhila . 
12 . Bavuri. 

18 . Kabirpanthi. 
13. Bedia or Bejla . 

17 . Khatik , 
14 . Beldar , 

18 Korį or Koll. 
15 . Bhata, 

19 . Marija or Marecha. 
16 . Bhumij. 

20 . Mazhabi. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 


(PART I - Sec. 1 
= = 

= 


21. Megh , 
22. Nat. 
23 . Od . 
24 . Pasl, 
25. Perna . 
26 . Pherera . 
27. Ramdast or Ravidası, 
28. Sanhai. 
29 . Sanhal 
30 . Sansi. 
31. Sapela , 
32. Sarera 
33 . Sikligar . 
34 . Sirkiband , 


13 . Doai. 
14 . Dom . 
16 . Dosadh 
16 . Ghasi. 
17 . Gonrhi. 
18 . Hari. 
19 . Jalia Kaibartta . 
20 , Jhalo Malo or Male 
21. Kadar . 
24 . Kandra . 
23. Kaora. 
24 . Karenga 
25 Kastha. 
26 . Kaur. 
27. Khaira . 
28 . Khatik . 
29. Koch . 
30 . Konai. 
31 Konwar. 
32. Kora . 
33 . Kotal , 
34 . Lalbeei. 
35 . Lodha. 
38 . Lahar . 
37 . Mahar . 

8 . Mahli . 
39 . Mal, 
40 . Mallah . 
41. Malpahariya . 
42. Mehtor. 
43. Muchi. 
44. Musahar . 
45. Nagesia . 
46. Namazudra. 
47 . Nuniya . 
48 . Pallya . 
49 . Pan . 
50 . Pasl. 
61. Patni, 
52. Pod . 
53. Rabha . 
54 . Rajbanshi. 
55. Rajwar . 
56 . Sunri. 
57. Tiyar . 
58. Turi 

Hyderabad . 


Uttar Pradesh 
1. Throughout the State : 

1 . Agariya , 
2 . Badi. 
3 . Badhik . 
4 , Baheliya. 
5 . Baiga . 
6 . Balswar . 
7 . Bajaniya, 
8 . Bajgi. 
9 . Balabar . 
10 . Balmiki, 
11. Bangall, 
12 . Banmanus. 
13 . Bansphor . 
14 . Barwar. 
15 . Basor . 
16 . Bawariya . 
17 . Beldar, 
18 . Beriya . 
19 . Bhantu . 
20 , Bhoksa . 
21. Bhulya . 
22 . Bhuylar . 
23 , Borla . 
24 . Chamar. 
25 , Chero 
26 , Dabgar . 
27. Dhangar. 
28 , Dhanuk . 
29, Dharkar. 
30 . Dhobi. 
31. Dhusia or Jhusia . 
32 . Dom . 
33 . Domar . 
34 . Dusadh . 
35 . Gharami. 
38 . Ghasiya . 
37. Gual. 
38 . Habura . 
39 . Harl. 
40 . Hela . 
41. Jatava . 
42. Kalabaz. 
43 . Kanjar , 
44 . Kapariya . 
45 . Karwal 
46 . Khairaha . 
47. Kharot. 
48 . Kharwar ( excluding Benbansi) . 
49. Kol, 
30 . Korwa . 
51. Lalbegi. 
52 . Majhwar . 
53. Nat. 
54 . Pankha . 
85 . Parahiya . 
86 . Pasi, 
67. Patari. 
58. Rawat. 
59 . Saharya. 
80 . Sanurhlya . 
61. Sanslya , 
62. Shilpkar 

83. Turalha . 
2 . In Bundelkhand Division and the portion of Mirza 
pur district south of Kaimur Range: 
Gond . 

West Bengal 
hroughout the State :--- 

1. Bagdi. 
2 . Bahella . 
3 . Balti. 
4 . Bauri. 
5 . Bediya 
6 . Beldar. 
7 . Bhulmall. 
8 . Bbulya . 
9 . Bhumis. 
10 : Bind , 
11, Chemar. 
12 . Dhobe. 


Throughout the State : - 

1. Anamuk , 
2 . Aray (Mala ) . 
3 . Arwa Mala . 
4 . Beda ( Budga ) Jangam . 
5 . Bindla . 
6 . Byagara . 
7 . Chalvadi. 
8 . Chambhar. 
9 . Dakkal (Dokkalwar ). 
10 . Dhor . 
11 . Ellamalwar ( Yellammalawandlu ) . 
12 . Holeya . 
13. Holeya Dasari, 
14 . Kolupulvandlu . 
15 . Madiga . 
16 . Mahar . 
17. Mala , 
18 . Mala Dasari. 
19 . Mala Hannal. 
20 . Malajangam , 
21. Mala Masti . 
22 . Mala Sale (Netkani) . 
23. Mala Sanyasi, 
24 . Mang 
25 . Mang Garodi, 
26 . Manne. 
27 . Mashti, 
28 . Mehtar . 
29 . Mitha Ayyalvar, 
30 , Mochi. 
31, Samagara . 
32. Sindhollu ( Chindollu ) . 


Madhya Bharat 
Throughout the State : 

1, Bagri or Bagdi. 
2 . Balal. 
3 . Barahar or Bagod . 
4 . Bargunda . 
5 . Bedia . 
6 . Bhambi. 
7 . Bhangl or Mehtar. 
8 . Chamar. 
9 . Chidar . 
10 . Dhanuk . 
11. Kanjar , 
12 . Khatik . 
13. Kou 


PART 1 - Sec, 11 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 


- - - 


- 


14 . Mahar, 
15 . Mochi. 
16 . Nat . 
17. Pardhi. 
18 . Pasi. 
19 . Sansi 

Mysore , 
1. Throughout the State except in Bellary District: 

1 . Adidravida . 
2 . Adikarnataka . 
3 . Banjara or Lambani. 
4 . Bhovi. 
5 . Koracha. 
6 . Korama. 


3 . Barar, 
4 . Batwal. 
5 , Bawaria . 
6 . Bazigar . 
7 . Balmiki or Chura . 
8 . Bhanjra . 
9 . Chamar. 
10 . Chanal. 
11. Dagl. 
12 . Dhanak . 
13 . Dumna or Mahesha. 
14, Gagra, 
15 . Gandhtla , 
16 . Kabirpanthi. 
17. Khatik , 
18 . Kori or Koll. 
19 . Marija or Marecha . 
20 . Mazhabi, 
21, Megh . 
22 . Nat . 
23 . Od . 
24 . Pasi. 
25. Perna . 
26 . Pherera . 
27. Ramdasi or Ravidasi , 
28 . Sanhai, 
29 . Sanhal. 
30 . Şansi. 
31 , Sapela . 
32 . Şarera , 
33. Sikilgar, 
34 . Sirklbrand , 


In Bellary district : 

1. Adi Andhra . 
2 . Adi Dravida , 
3 . Adikarnataka , 
4 . Ajila . 
5 . Arunthathiyar . 
6 . Baira . 
7 . Bakuda . 
8 . Bandi. 
9 . Bariki. 
10 . Bavuri. 
11. Bellara . 
12 . Byagari. 
13 . Chachati. 
14 . Chakkiliyan . 
15 . Chalavadi. 
16 . Chamar . 
17 . Chandala . 
18 . Cheruman . 
19 . Dandasi , 
20 . Devendrakulathan . 
21. Dom or Dombara , Paidi , Pano , 
22, Ghasi or Haddi, Relli Sachandi. 
23. Godagall. 
24. Godari. 
25 . Godda . 
26 . Gosangi, 
27. Haşla . 
28 , Holeya 
29 . Jaggali . 
30 . Jambuvulu . 
31 . Kadan , 
32 . Kalladi . 
33. Kanakkan . 
34. Karimpalan , 
35 . Kodalo . 
38 . Koosa . 
37 . Korag . 
38 . Kudubi 
39. Kudumban . 
40 . Kuravan . 
41. Kurichchan . 
42. Madari. 
43. Madige 
44 . Malla , 
45. Mala (including Agency Malas) . 
46 . Mala Daru . 
47. Malasar. 
48 . Matangi. 
49. Mavilan . 
50. Moger . 
51. Muchi. 
52. Mundala . 
53. Nalakeyava . 
54 . Nayadi. 
55 . Pagadai. 
56 . Painda . 
57. Paky . 
58. Pallan 
59 . Pambada. 
60 . Pamidi, 
61. Panan . 
62 . Panchama, 
69. Panniandi. 
64 . Paraiyan . 
65. Parayan . 
68 . Pulayan 
67. Puthirai Vannan . 
68 . Raneyar. 
69. Samagara , 
70 . Samban . 
71. Sapari. 
72 . Semman 
73. Thoti. 
74 , Tiruvalluvar. 
75 . Valluvan , 
76 . Valmiki. 
77. Vettuvan 

Patiala and East Punjab States Union 
Throughout the State :-- 

1. Ad Dharmi. 
2 . Bangali. 


Rajasthan 
Throughout the State : 

1 . Adi Dharmi. 
2 . Aheri. 
3 . Badi. 
4 . Bagri, 
5 . Bajgar. 
8 . Bangphor. 
7 . Bargi. 
8 . Bawaria . 
9 . Bhand . 
10 . Bhangi, 
11 , Bidakia . 
12 . Chamar. 
13. Chura . 
14 . Dabgar. 
15 . Dhankla . 
16 . Dheda . 
17 . Dome. 
18 . Gandia . 
19 . Garancha Mehtar, 
20 . Godhi. 
21. Jatia . 
22, Kalbelia , 
23 . Kapadia Sansi. 
24 . Khangar, 
25 . Khatka . 
26 . Kooch Band . 
27. Koria . 
28 . Kunjar. 
29 . Madari (Bazigar) . 
30 . Majhabi. 
31. Mehar 
32 , Mehtar, 
33 . Mochi. 
34 . Nut. 
35 . Pasi. 
36 . Raigar. 
37. Ramdasla , 
38 . Rawal, 
39 . Sarbhangl. 
40 . Singiwala , 
41. Sansi. 
42. Thori. 
43 . Tirgar , 
44. Valmiki. 


Saurashtra 


Throughout the State : 

1 . Bawa (Dhedh ). 
2 . Bhangi. 
3 . Chamadia . 
4 , Chamar. 
5 Dangashia , 
6 . Garoda . 
7 . Garmatang. 
8 . Hadi. 
9 . Meghwal, 
10 . Senva 
11. Shemalia , 
12 . Thorl. 
13 . Turl. 
14 . Turi- Barot 
15 . Vankar, 


เสน 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 

"(PART I - SEC. i 
Sa = = = = 

- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - 

- - - 

- - 
Travancore - Cochin 

Bilaspur 
Throughout the State : - 

Throughout the State : 

1 . Chamar . 
1 . Ayyanavar . 

2 . Julahe . 
2 . Bharatar. 

3 . Dumne (Bhanjre ) . 
8 . Chakkulyan . 

4 . Chuhre . 
4 . Domban . 

5 . Hesi ( Turi ) . 
5 . Hravalan . 

8 , Chhimbe (Dhobi) . 
6 . Kakkalan , 

7 . Bangali. 
7 . Kanakkan , 

8 . Sarehde . 
8 . Kavara . 

9 . Daule , 
9 . Kootan (Koodan ) . 
10 . Kuravan . 

Coorg 
11. Mannan . 

Throughout the State : 
12 . Nayadi. 
13 . Padannan , 

1 , Adl Dravida , 
14 . Pallan . 

2 . Adi Karnataka , 
16 . Palluvan , 

3 . Adiya, 
16 . Panan , 

4 . Balagai. 
17. Paravan . 

5 . Holeya . 
18 . Parayan ( Sambavar ), 

6 . Madiga . 
19. Pathiyan . 

7 . Muchi , 
20. Perumannan , 

8 . Mundala . 
21. Pulayan . 

9 . Panchama. 
22 , Thandan . 

10 . Paraya . 
23. Ulladan . 

11 . Samagara , 
24 . Uraly . 
25 . Vallon . 

Delhi 
26 . Valluvan . 

Throughout the State 
27. Vannan . 

1 . Adi-Dharmi. 
28 . Velan , 

2 . Agria . 
29 . Vetan . 

3 . Aheria . 
30. Vettuvan . 

4 . Balal. 
3 . Banjara . 

Bawaria . 
Ajmer 

7 . Bazigar , 

8 . Bhangi. 
Throughout the State : 

9 . Bhil. 
1. Aheri. 

10 . Chamar. 
2 . Bagri. 

11. Chanwar Chamar, 
3 . Balai. 

12 . Chohra (Sweeper ) . 
4 . Bambhi. 

13. Chuhra (Balmiki) . 
5 . Bansphod . 

14 . Dhanak or Dhanuk . 
6 . Baori. 

15 . Dhobi, 
7 . Bargi. 

18 . Dom . 
8 . Bazigar , 

17. Gharrami. 
9 . Bhangi. 

18 . Jatya or Jatav Chemar, 
10 . Bidakia , 

19 . Julaha (Weaver ) , 
11 . Chammar. 

20 , Kabirpanthi. 
12. Dabgar. 

21. Kachhandha , 
13 . Dhanak . 

22. Kanjar, 
14 . Dhed . 

23 . Khatik . 
15 . Dhobi. 

24 . Koli. 
16 . Dholl . 

25 . Lalbegi 
17 . Dom . 

28 . Madari. 
18 . Garoda . 

27. Mallah . 
19 . Gancha. 

28 . Mazhabi 
20 , Jatava . 

29 . Megwal. 
21, Kalbella . 

30 . Mochi. 
22. Kanjar . 

31. Nat (Rana ). 
23 . Khanger , 

32 , Pasi. 
24 . Khatik , 

33, Perna, 
28 . Koli. 

34, Ram Dasia . 
26 . Koria . 

35 . Ravidasl or Raidasi. 
27. Kuchband . 

38 . Rehgarh or Raigar . 
28. Mabar. 

37 . Sansi, 
29 . Meghwal. 

38 . Sapera 
30 . Mochi. 

39 . Sikllgar. 
31. Nat. 

40, Singiwala or Kalbella . 
32. Pasl. 

41. Sirkiband , 
33. Raigar . 
34. Rawal 

Almachal Pradesh 
35 , Sansi . 
36 . Sarbhangi. 

Throughout the State : - - 
37 . Sargara . 

1 . Ad -dharmi. 
38 . Satia . 

2 . Balmiki or Chura or Bhangi or Sweeper 
39. Shorl. 

3. Bangall. 
40 . Tirgar. 

4 . Banjara . 
5 . Barar. 

6 . Bawaria . 
Bhopal 

7 , Bazigar. 

8 . Hesi. 
Throughout the State : - 

9 . Bhandra , 
1 . Balahi. 

10 . Chamar. 
2 . Basar . 

11. Chanal. 
3 . Bedia . 

12 . Dagi, 
4 . Beldar, 

13 . Daole . 
5 . Chamar . 

14 . Dhakl or Toort 
6 , Chitar. 

15 . Doom or Doomna . 
7 . Dhanuk 

16 . Kabirpanthi or Julaha or Keer. 

17. Kolt, 
8 . Dome. 
9 . Khatik . 

18 . Mazhabi, 
10 , Koli. 

19 . Mochi. 
11. Kanjar, 

20 . Nat. 
12 . Mehtar, Bhangi. 

21, Od. 
13. Mehar . 

22 . Pasl. 
14. Mang. 

23. Phrera . 
15, Nut, 

24 , Ramdasi or Ravidasi. 
18 . Silawat 

25 . Ramdasia . 


in 
ผง 


PART I - Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 


69 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


2 . In the Tribal Areas other than the Autonomous 
Districts : 

1. Abor. 
2 . Aka. 
3 . Apatani. 
4 . Dafla . 
5 . Galong . 
6 . Khampti. 
7. Mishmi. 
8 . Any Naga tribes . 
9 . Singpho . 
10. Momba . 
11, Sherdukpen . 


3 . In the State of Assam excluding the Tribal Areas : 

1 . Boro - Borokachari, 
2 . Deori. 
3 . Hojai, 
4 . Kachari. 
5 . Lalung. 
6 . Mechi 
7 . Miri. 
8 . Rabha , 

Blhar 


26 . Rebar. 
27. Sansi. 
28 . Sapela . 
29 . Siklipar . 
30 . Sirkiband . 

Kutch 
Throughout the State : 

1. Bhangi. 
2 . Chamar, 
3 . Garoda , 
4 . Meghwal. 
5 . Turi. 
6 . Turi (Barot) . 

Manipur 
Throughout the State : 
Castes, races or tribes, or parts of, or groups 

within , castes or tribes specified as Scheduled 
Castes in relation to the State of Assam . 

Tripura 
Throughout the State : 

1 . Bagdi. 
2 . Baiti, 
3 . Bhunar 
4 . Chamar , 
5 . Dandasi. 
6 . Dhenuar . 
7 . Dhoba. 
8 . Duai. 
9 . Dum 
10 . Ghasi. 
11, Gour. 
12 . Gunar. 
13 . Gur. 
14 , Gorang 
15 . Jalla Kaibarta , 
16 . Kahar. 
17 . Kalindi. 
18 . Kan . 
19. Kanugh . 
20 , Keot, 
21. Kharla . 
22. Khadit . 
23 . Khemcha. 
24 . Koch , 
25 . Koir , 
26. Kol. 
27. Kora , 
28 . Kotal. 
29 . Mali . 
30 . Bhuimali. 
31. Mehtor , 
32. Muchi. 
33 , Namsudra . 
34 , Patni, 
35 . Sabar . 
36 . Mahlsyadas . 

Vindhya Pradesh 
Throughout the State - 

1 . Basor (Bansphor) . 
2 . Chamar . 
3 . Dahait. 
4 . Dharkar . 
6 . Dher . 
6 . Dom . 
7. Domar or Doris . 
8 . Kuchbandhla . 
9 . Mehtar or Bhangi or Dhanuk . 
10 . Mocbi, 


1. Throughout the State: 

1 . Asur . 
2 . Baiga , 
3 . Bathudi. 
4 . Bedia 
5 . Binthia . 
6 . Birhor . 
7 . Birjia . 
8 . Chero . 
9 . Chik Baraik . 
10 . Gond . 
11, Goralt. 
12 , Ho. 
13. Karmali . 
14 . Kharla , 
15. Kharwar. 
16 . Khond . 
17 . Kisan . 
18 . Kora , 
19 . Korwa. 
20 . Lobara . 
21. Mahli . 
22 . Mal Pabaria . 
23. Munda . 
24 . Oraon , 
25 . Parhaiya . 
26 . Santal. 
27 . Sauria Paharia , 
28 . Savar. 


2 . In the districts of Ranchi, Singbhum , Hazarlbagh , 
Santal Parganas and Manbhum : 

Bhumij. 


APPENDIX VI 
A candidate shall be held to be a member of the 
Scheduled Tribes if he belongs to one of the Tribes 
specifed in the list below under the State ( area ) in 
which he and his family ordinarily reside , 
LIST OF SCHEDULED TRIBES 

Assem 
1. In the Autonomous Districts :-- - 

1. Dimasa (Kachari ) . 
2 . Garo . 
3 . Hajong. 
4 . Khasi and Jaintia , 
5 . Any Kuki tribes, 
6 . Lakher . 
7. Any Lushai (Mizo ) tribes . 
8 . Mikir . 
9 . Any Naga tribes. 
10 . Synteng . 


Bombay 
Throughout the State: 

1 . Barda , 
2 . Bavacha . 
3 , Bhil, including 

Bhagalla , 
Bhil Garasia , 
Dholi Bhil, 
Dungri Bhul , 
Dungri Garasla , 
Mewasi Bbil, 
Raval Bhil, and 

Tadvi Bhil, 
4 . Chodhara . 
5 . Dhanka. 
6 . Dhodia . 
7 . Dubla . 
8 . Gamit or Gamta . 
9 . Gond, 
10 . Kathodi or Katkari. 
11. Konkna . 
12 . Koli Dhor, 
13 . Koli Mahadev . 
14 . Mavchi. 
15 . Naikda or Nayak . 
16 . Pardhi including 

Advichincher , and 

Phanse Pardhi. 
17 , Patelia . 
18 . Pomla . 
19 . Powara . 
20. Rathawa. 
21. Thakur. 
22 . Valvai. 
23. Varli. 
24 . Vasava . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


( PART 1 - SEC. 1 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


1 


27. Kurumana, 
28 . Manna Dhora. 
29 . Maune. 
30. Mukha Dhora - Nooka Dhora. 
31, Muria . 
32. Paigarapu . 
33 . Palasi. 
34 . Paniyan . 
35 . Porjas- - Bodo, Bonda, Daruva , Didua, Jodla , 

Mundili, Pengu , Pydi and Saliya . 
36. Reddi Dhoras, 
37 . Savaras - Kapu Servaras , Khutto Savaras and 

Mallya Savaras. 
38 . Sholaga. 
39 . Toda 
40, Inhabitants of the Laccadive , Minicoy and 

Amindivi Islands who , and both of whose 
parents , were born in these Islands . 


Orissa 


Madhya Pradegh 
In 

( 1 ) Melghat taluq of Amravati district , 
(2 ) Baihar tahsil of Balaghat district. 
( 3 ) Bhanupratappur, Bijapur, Dantewara , Jagdal 

pur , Kanker , Kondagaon , Konta and Narayan 

pur tahsıls of Bastar district. 
( 4 ) Betul and Bhainsdehi tahsils of Betul district . 
(5 ) Katghora tahsil of Bilaspur district. 
( 0 ) Suroncha and Gharchiroli tahsils of Chanda 

district . 
( 7 ) Amarwara , Chhindwara and Lakhnadon 

tahsils of Chhindwara district. 
( 8 ) Balod (Sanjari) tahsil of Durg district, 
( 9 ) Mandla , Niwas and Ramgarh ( Dindori ) 

tahşıls of Mandla district . 
( 10 ) Harsud tahsil of Nimar district . 
( 11 ) Dharamjaigarh , Ghargoda , Jashpurnagar and 

Khersla tahsils of Raigarh district. 
( 12 ) Ambikapur, Baikunthpur , Bharatpur, Janak 

pur, Manendragarh , Pal, Samari and Sitapur 

tahsils of Sarguja district: 
1. Andh . 
2 . Baiga . 
3 . Bhaina. 
4 . Bharia - Bhumia , or Bhuinhar -Bhumla . 
5 . Bhattra . 
6 . Bhil , 
7 . Bhunjia . 
8 . Binjhwar. 
9 . Birhul or Birlor . 
10 . Dhanwar . 
11. Gadaba or Gadba . 
12 . Gond [including Madia (Maria ) and Mudia 

(Muria ) ). 
13 . Halba. 
14 , Kamar. 
15 . Kawar or Kanwar, 
16 . Kharia , 
17 . Kondh or Khond or Kandh . 
18 . Kol. 
19. Kolan , 
20 . Korku . 
21. Korwa. 
22. Majhwar. 
23. Munda. 
24. Nagesia or Nagasia . 
25 . Nihal. 
26 . Oragn . 
27 . Pardhan . 
28 . Pardini. 
29 , Parja . 
30, Saonta or Saunta . 
31. Sawar or Sawara . 


Throughout the State : 

1. Bagata . 
2 . Baiga. 
3 . Banjara of Banjari. 
4 . Bathudi. 
5 . Bhuiya or Bhuyan . 
6 . Binjhal. 
7. Binjhla or Binjhoa . 
8 . Birhor . 
9 . Bondo Poraja . 
10 . Chenchu , 
11 . Dal. 
12 . Gadaba . 
13 . Ghara . 
14 . Gond . 
15 . Gorait or Korait , 
16 . Ho. 
17. Jatapu , 
18 . Juang, 
19 . Kawar. 
20 . Kharla or Kharian . 
21. Kharwar 
22. Khond (Kond ) , or Kandha , or Nanguli Kandha, 

or Sitha Kandha . 
23 . Kisan . 
24 . Yolah -Kol-Loharas, 
25 . Kolha . 
26 . Koll. 
27. Kondadora , 
28 . Kora , 
29. Korua . 
30 . Koya . 
31, Kulis . 
32 . Mahali : 
33. Mankidl. 
34 . Mankirdia . 
35 . Mirdhas. 
36 . Munda (Munda - Lohara and Munda - Mahalis ) . 
37 Mundari. 
38 . Oraon . 
39 . Paroja . 
40 . Santal. 
41, Saora , or Savar , or Saura , or Sahara . 
42 . Tharur. 


Punjab 
In Spiti and Lahaul in Kangra District: 

Tibetan . 


Madras and Andbra 
Throughout each of the States : 

1. Aranadan . 
2 . Bagata . 
3. Bhottadas - Bodo Bhottada. Muria Bhottada 

and Sano Bhottada. 
4 . Bhumias - Bhuri Bhumia and Bodo Bhumia , 
5 . Chenchu . 
6 . Gadabas - Boda Gadaba , Cerllam Gadaba , 

Franji Gadaba, Jodia Gadaba , Olaro 

Gadaba, Pangi Gadaba and Pranga Gadaba . 
7. Gondi - -Modya Gond and Rajo Gond . 
8 . Goudu3- - Bato , Bhirithya Dudhokouria , Hato , 

Jatako and Joria . 
9 . Kosalya Goudus - Bosothoriya Goudus, Chitti 

Goudus, Dangayath Goudus, Doddu 
Kamariya , Dudu Kamaro , Ladiya Goudus 

and Pullosorlya Goudus. 
10 . Magatha, Goudus - Berina Goudu , Booda 

Magatha , Dongayath Goudu . Ladya Goudu , 

Poona Magatha and Sana Magatha , 
11 . Holya . 
12 . Jadapus. 
13. Jatapus. 
14 . Kammara . 
15 . Kattunayakan . 
16 . Khattis -- Khatti , Kommarao and Lonara . 
17. Kodu 
18 . Kommar , 
19 . Konda Dhoras . 
20 . Konda Kapus . 
21. Kondareddis. 
22. Kondhs Desaya Kondhs, Dongria Kondhs, 

Kuttiya Kondhs, Tikiria Kondhs and Yenity 

Kondhs, 
23 . Kota . 
24 . Kotla - Bartika. Bentho Orlya , Dhulla or Dulia , 

Holva Paiko, Putiya , Sanrona and Sidho 

Paiko . 
25 . Koya or Goud, with its sub -sects. - Raja or 

Rasha Koyas, Lingadhari Koyas ( ordinary ) 

and Kottu Koyas. 
26 . Kudiya 


West Bengal 
Throughout the State : - - 

1 . Bhutia . 
2 . Lepcha. 
3 . Mech , 
4 . Mru . 
5 . Munda. 
6 . Oraon . 
7 . Santal. 


Hyderabad 


Throughout the State : 

1 Andh , 
2 . Bhil. 
3 . Chenchu , or Chenchwa. 
4 . Gond ( Including Naikpod and Rajgond ). 
5 . Hill Reddis . 
6 . Kolam ( including Mannervarlu ) , 
7. Koya (including Bhine Koya and Rajkoya ). 
8 . Pardhan , 
9 . Thoti. 


les 


u 


. 


Goudut 


10 . Magathaosoriya Goudus , Ladiya 


PART I- Sec. 1 ] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12, 1953 
I - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - -- 
Madhya Bharat 

Travancore - Cochin 
1. Throughout the State : - 

Throughout the State : 

1. Hill Pulaya . 
1. Gond . 

2 . Kadar. 
2 . Korku , 

3 . Kanikaran , 
3 . Seharia . 

4 . Kochu Velan , 
2 . In the Revenue District of Jhabua ; in the tehsils 

5 . Malai Arayan . 
of Sendhwa, Barwani, Rajpur, Khargone, Bhikangaon 

6 . Malai Pandaram , 
and Maheshwar of the Revenue District of Khargone; 

7 . Malai Vedan . 
in the tahsil of Sailana of the Revenue District of 

8 . Malayan . 
Ratlam , in the tehsils of Sardarpur, Kukshi, Dhar and 

9 . Malayarayar, 
Manawar of the Revenue District of Dhar: -- 

10 . Mannan , 
Bhils and Bhilalas ( inclusive of sub - tribes ) . 

11 . Muthuvan . 

12 . Pallcyan . 
Mysore 

13 . Palllyar . 

14 . Ulladan (Hill dwellers ) . 
1. Throughout the State except in Bellary district : 

15. Uraly . 

16 . Vishavan . 
1 . Hasalaru . 
2 . Iruliga . 

Ajmer 
3 . Jenu Kuruba . 

Throughout the State : 
4 . Kadu -Kuruba . 

Bhil. 
6 . Maleru . 
6 . Soligaru . 

Bhopal 
In Bellary district: 

Throughout the State : -- 
1 . Aranadan , 
2 . Bagala . 

1, Bhil 
3. Bhottadas - Bodo Bhottada, Muria Bhottada 

2 . Gond . 
and Sano Bhottada. 

3 . Keer . 
4 . Bhumian - Bhuri Bhumia and Bodo Bhumia . 

4 . Karku . 
5 . Chenchu . 

5 . Mogia . 
6 . Gadabas - Boda Gadaba , Cerllam Gadaba , 

6 . Pardhi, 
Franji Gadaba , Jodia Gadaba, Olaro 

7 . Şaharia , Sosia , or Sor . 
Gadaba , Pangi Gadaba and Pranga Gadaba . 
7. Gondi - Modya Gond and Rajo Gond . 

Coorg 
8 . Goudus- - Bato , Bhirithya Dudhokouria , Hato , Throughout the State : 
Jatako and Joria . 

1 . Korama. 
9 . Kosalya Goudus - Bosothoriya Goudus , 

2 . Kudiya , 
Chitti Goudus, Dangayath Goudus , Dodd 

3 . Kuruba , 
Kamariya , Dudu Kamaro , Ladiya Goudus 

4 . Maratha . 
10 . Magatha Goudus — Bernia Goudu , 

5 . Meda . 
Boodo 

6 . Yerava . 
Magatha, Dongayath Goudu , Ladya Goudu , 

Ponna Magatha and Sana Magatha . 
11. Holva . 

Himachal Pradesh 
12 . Jadapu 3. 

In Lahaul in Chamba district and in Spiti in Mahasu 
13 . Jatapus. 

district : 
14 . Kamara . 
16 . Kattunayakan . 

Tibetan . 
16. Kihattis -Khatti, Kommarao and Lohara . 
17 . Kodu , 

Kutch 
18 . Kommar . 
19 . Konda Dhoras . 

Throughout the State : 
20. Konda Kapus. 

1. Bhils . 
21. Kondareddis . 

2 . Dhodia . 
22 . Kondhs - - Desaya Kondhs. Dongria Kondhs , 

3 . Koll. 
Kuttiya Kondhs, Tikiria Kondhs and 

4 . Paradhi, 
Yenity Kondhs. 

5 . Vaghri. 
23. Kota, 
24 , Kotia - -- Bartika Bentho Oriya , Dhulia ог 

Manlpur 
Dulla , Holva Paiko , Putiya , Sanrona and 

Throughout the State : - - 
Sidho Paiko. 
25 . Koya or Goud , with its sub -sects .- - Raja or 

1. Any Kuki Tribe, 
Rasha Koyas, Lingadhari Koyas ( ordinary ) 

2 . Any Lushal Tribe . 
and Kottu Koyas. 

3 . Any Naga Tribe. 
26 . Kudiya. 

Tripura 
27. Kurumans. 
28 . Manna Dhora , 

Throughout the State — 
29 , Maune. 
30 . Mukha Dhora -- Nooka Dhora . 

1 . Lushai. 
31. Murla . 

2 . Mag 
32. Palgarapu . 

3 . Kuki, 
33 . Palagi. 

4 . Chakma . 
34 . Paniyan , 

5 . Garoo . 
35 . Porjas - Bodo Bonda, Daruva , Didua , Jodia . 

6 . Chalmal 
Mundili, Pengu , Pydi and Saliya . 

7 . Halam . 
36 . Reddi Dhoras. 

8 . Khasia , 
37 . Savaras - Kapu Savaras , Khutto Şavaras and 

9 . Bhutia , 
Maliya Savaras. 

10 . Munda including Kaur. 
38 . Sholaga . 

11 . Orang 
39 . Toda 

12 . Lepcha. 
40 . Inhabitants of the Laccadive Minicoy and 

13 . Santal, 
Amindivi Islands who , and both of whose 

14 . Bhil. 
parents , were born in these Islands. 

15 . Tripura . 

16 . Jamatia . 
Rajasthan 

17 . Noatia . 

18 . Riang 
Throughout the Scheduled Areas of the State: 

Vindhya Pradesh 
Bhil . 

Throughout the State : - 
Saurashtra 

1 , Agariya . 
Throughout the State :- - 

2 . Baiga . 

3 Bhumiya , 
1. Adodia . 

4 . Gond . 
2 . Daffer . 

5 . Kamar, 
3 . Ghantia . 

6 . Khairwar . 
4 . Miyana . 

7 . Majhi. 
6 . Sindhi 

8 . Mawasi. 
6 . Wedva Waghri, 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 


[PART 1 - Sec. 1 


72 


9 . Panika , 
10 , Pao , 
11, Bhii. 
12 . Bedia . 
13 . Biar ( Biyar ) . 
14 . Sonr. 


R . C . DUTT , Jt. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

RESOLUTION 
New Delhi, the 12th February 1955 
No. DW .14 (9 ) /54 - ( 1 ). — Two River Commissions, 
namely , the Ganga River Commission (Floods ) and 
the Brahmaputra River Commission ( Floods ) have 
already been set up to deal with flood control problems 
in the Ganga and the Brahmaputra basins vide this 
Ministry s Resolution No . DW . 14 ( 9 ) / 54 , dated the 30th 
September, 1954 , The States of Jammu and Kashmir , 
PEPSU and Punjab are also affected by frequent 
floods and the State Governments have constituted 
State Flood Control Boards , 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 
New Delhi, the 3rd February 1955 

CHARITABLE ENDOWMENTS 
In the matter of Vizianagaram Scholarships Endow 

ment Trust, Allahabad 


No. F . 10 - 2 /51. A .2 . - Consequent on the reduction in 
the rate of interest on the securities of the said En 
dowment as stated in application and with the con 
currence of the persons making the said application 
and in exercise of the power conferred by sub - section 
( 2 ) of section 5 of the Charitable Endowments Act , 
1890 (VI of 1890 ) , the Central Government hereby 
directs that the following further modifications shall 
be made in the Scheme of the Trust published with 
the notification No. 158 - G / Xy - 134, dated the 23rd 
February , 1924 , namely : 


The Central Flood Control Board , in their Second 
meeting held on the 14th December , 1954, decided to 
set up another River Commission to assist the Board 
in all technical matters including preparation of 
Integrated plans for flood control for the North -West 
region and examination of specific schemes to be 
carried out in the States . The Government of India 
have accordingly set up the North - West Rivers Com 
mission ( Floods ) . 


2 . Constitution of the River Commission . The North 
West Rivers Commission ( Floods) will consist of the 
following : 

Chairman 
(i) Chairman , Central Water and Power Com 

mission . 


( iv ) 


In the said scheme 

( 1) in paragraph ( 4 ) for the existing values and 
rates the following shall be substituted ; 

One at Rs. 5 per mensem , 
One at Rs. 4 per mensem . 

Two at Rs. 3 per mensem , 
( 2 ) in paragraph ( 5 ) for the existing values and 
rates the following shall be substituted : 

One at Rs. 5 per mensem , 
Two at Rs. 4 per mensem . 

Two at Rs. 3 per mensem . 
( 3 ) in Une 1 of paragraph (6 ) for figures and words 

" Rs. 8 per mensem ” the figures and words 
" Rs. 7 / 8 / - per mensem " shall be substituted 

the figures and words. 
( 4 ) in line 1 of paragraph ( 7 ) for " Rs. 8 per men 

sem " the figures and words " Rs. 7 / 8 / - per 
mensem " shall be substituted the figures and 

words. 
( 6 ) in line 1 of paragraph (8 ) for " Rs. 10 per men 

sem each , tenable for one year " the figures 
and words " Rs. 7 / 8 / - per mensem for 10 

months" shall be substituted . 
(6 ) in line 1 of paragraph ( 9 ) the figures and words 
for 
" Rs. 10 / 8 / - per mensem " the words and figures 

" Rs. 9 per mensem " shall be substituted . 


Members 
(11) Chief Engineer (s) in charge of Flood Control, 

Jammu and Kashmir . 
( 11i) Chief Engineer ( s ) in charge of Flood Control, 

Punjab . 
Chief Engineer ( s ) in charge of Flood Control, 

PEPSU . 
( v ) Inspector -General of Forests or his representa 

tive. 
(vi) Surveyor -General of India or his representa 

tive . 
( vii ) Director, Geological Survey of India , or his 

representative. 
( vili) Director -General of Observatories , Meteorolo 

gical Department, or his representative, 
( ix ) Chief Conservator of Forests , Himachal 

Pradesh . 
Chairman , Railway Board , or his representa 
tive. 
Chief Engineer ( Flood Control) in charge of 
Planning , Central Water and Power Com 

mission . 
( xil ) Director , Hydraulic Research Station , Amritsar, 

Punjab . 


( 


1 ) 


T, S . KRISHNAMURTI, Under Secy . 


Member -Secretary 
( xill ) Chief Engineer ( Flood Control ) in charge of 

Field Investigations, Central Water and Power 

Commission . 
3 . The Commission may co - opt specialists , Indian 
or foreign , and also representatives of the Roads 
organisation , as and when necessary . 


4 . Functions. The functions of the Commission will 
be to assist the Central Flood Control Board in all 
technical matters connected with Flood Control 
measures with particular reference to the following : 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 

(Rallway Board ) 

ORDER 
New Delhi, the 5th February 1955 
No. 2327 - TC . In pursuance of Section 32 of the 
Indian Railways Act 1890 ( IX of 1890 ) , the Central 
Government hereby directs that the following amend 
ment shall be made in the Order of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Railways (Railway Board ) 
No. 2327- TC , dated the 1st June, 1963, namely : 
In the said order after the figure and words “ 3 

pies per maund " , the words " subject to a 
minimum charge of two annas per consign 
ment" shall be inserted . 

V . SRIRAMAN , 
Assistant Director , Traffic. 

- 
MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND 

SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH 

New Delhi, the 3rd February 1955 
No. 22 (7 ) 754 -SRII . - In this Ministry s Notification 
of even number, dated the 10th January 1955 item 
No. 5 in para . 1 may be read as follows: 
Prof. N . R . Sen , Ghosh Professor and Head of the 

Department of Applied Mathematics , Uni 
versity College of Science and Technology , 
Calcutta . 

D . D . GUPTA , Under Secy . 


- 


- 


( a ) Preparation of a comprehensive programme 

for surveys and collection of data for formula 

tion of fiood control schemes . 
( b ) Preparation of Integrated plang for the river 

basins, after due consideration of the pro 
posals of the State Governments , for flood 

control works . 
( c ) Review of the progress of work regarding the 

collection of data , preparation of schemes and 

their implementation . 
( d ) Advising the State Governments, whenever 

necessary , on technical problems pertaining to 

flood control. 
( e ) Recommendation of measures to cope with 

emergent situations. 
5 . The Commission will frame its Rules of Business. 


T . SIVASANKAR , Secy, 


73 


SA 


date : - - 


PART 1- SEC , 1 ) 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12, 1955 
= = = = = 

= 
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING ( 2 ) Members other than the ex - officio members and 

the member of the Advisory Panel of the Central 
New Delhi, the 2nd February 1955 

Board of Film Censors , Bombay , shall be appointed 

for a period of two years and will be eligible for re 
No. 1 / 51 /54 - F . - In pursuance of the Resolution of the 

appointment. The member of the Advisory Panel 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information 

shall be appointed as a member of the Board for the 
and Broadcasting No. 1 /51 /54 - F , dated the 2nd 

full term of his membership of the Panel. 
February , 1955 , the Central Government hereby re 
constitutes the Filin Advisory Board , Bombay with 

( 3 ) The Government of India may for a causę suff 
effect from the 16th February , 1955 and appoints the 

cient in its opinion , remove any member of the Board 
following as its members with effect from the same before the expiration of the period of his office . 

( 4 ) The non - official members of the Board will work 
1 . Chairman , Central Board of Film Censors - Er in an honorary capacity . They may be paid such com 
officio Chairman 

pensatory allowance as the Central Government may 

from time to time determine . 
2 . Regional Oilcer , Central Board of Film Censors , 
Bombay - Er -officio Meinber . 

( 5 ) The Regional Oncer of the Central Board of 

Film Censors at Bombay will be the Secretary of the 
3 . Srimati Leela Jog , Merriber , Bombay Advisory 

Board 
Panel, Central Board of Film Censors . 

( 6 ) No act or proceeding of the Board shall be called 
4 . Dr. D . G . Vyas. 

in question on the ground merely of the existence of 

any vacancy in or defect in the constitution of the 
5 . Sri D . N . Marshall. 

Board . 
6. Sri D . P . Wagle. 

( 7 ) Unless otherwise directed by the Government 
7 . Kumuri S . Panandikar. 

of India , the Headquarters of the Board shall be at 

Bombay . 
8 . Sri V . Shantaram . 

( 8 ) Meetings of the Board shall be presided over by 
7 . Sri Habib Hoosain . 

the Chairman , and , in his absence the members present 

may elect one among themselves to preside. 
D . KRISHNA AYYAR , Under Secy . 

( 9 ) The quorum of the Board shall be three . 
RESOLUTION 

( 10 ) The decision of the Buard shall be that of the 

mdjority of the members attending the meeting and 
New Delhi, the 2nd February 1955 

in the cvent of an equality of votes , the presiding officer 

shall have a second or casting vote . The decision of 
No. 1 /51/ 54 - F . - Whereas the Film Advisory Board the Board shall be final. If any applicant wants to 
has been functioning for recommending documentaries 

niako arly representation in regard to the film sub 
and newsrecis produced by the Films Division and by 

mitted by hum , however , the Bourd shall give him an 
private producers for grant of approval certificates 

" pportunity to do so and it shall be open to the Board 
with reference to the rclevant condition in the cinema 

10 revise their decision in the light of any such 
licences and whereas a direction has now been issued 

representation , 
by the Central Government under sub - section ( 4 ) of 
section 12 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952. (XXXVII 

( 11 ) The Board shall ordinarily meet every week 
vi 1952 ) , und by the various State Governments under for the purpose of approving films as scientific films, 
thinir own Acts , it hul heen decided that the Film films intended for educational purposes , films dealing 
Advisory Board should be cntrusted with the responsi with news and current events or documentary films 
bility of approving Alms which may be regarded as in terms of the directions issued by the Government 
scientific Alms, films intended for educational purposes , of India under sub - section ( 4 ) of section 12 of the 
films dealing with news and current events or docu Cincinatograph Act, 1952 ( XXXVII of 1952 ) and any 
mentary films with reference to these directions. 

similar directions issued by the State Governments . 
2 . The rules governing the working of the Film 

( 12 ) Any person , firm , organisation or Government 
Advisory Board will be as follows : 

desirous of having any of his or its films approved by 

the Board shall send an application in writing to the 
( 1 ) The Board shall consist of not less than seven 

Secretary of the Board stating the title of the Alm and 
mnenbers , to be appointed by the Central Government, 

the source from which it can be obtained by the 
as follows: 

exhibitors and such other particulars as may be 

Iequired by the Board . 
( a ) Chairman of the Central Board of Film 
Corsors - - Ex- officio Chairman . 

( 13 ) The Board will communicate the titles and 
( b ) Regional Officer of the Central Board of Film subjects of the films approved by them , together with 
Censors , Bombay - E .c -offirio Member . 

the information regarding the sources from which they 

can be obtained , to the Central Government. The 
( s ) A member of the Advisory Panel of the Central titles of the Alms certified to be scientific Alms, films 
Board of Film Consors at Bombay . 

intended for educational purposes , films dealing with 

news and current events or documentary Alms by the 
( d ) Not less than four other members including Central Government, with the approval of the Film 

an educationist and two persons with Advisory Board , will be notified in the Gazette of 
knowledge of Alms and film making . 

India together with the address from which they can 
Explanation . . " Regional Officer” includes " Additional 

be obtained . 
Regional Officer " and " Assistant Regional Officer " . 

P . M . LAD , Secy . 


