REGISTERED No. D . 222 


FI/ 


ITU 


- 


The Eazette 


of India 


444 748 


11 .3 . 6 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No.9]NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1959/PHALGUNA A - 1880 


NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary wore published upto the 16th February 
1959 :4 


I suo 
No. 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


27. S. O . 386 , dated 14th Feb - Ministry of Law 

ruary, 1959 . 


Declaration containing the name 

of the Candidate elected by 
the Parliamentary Constitucn 
cy No, 138 , Nagpur, to All 
the Vacancy in the House of 
the People . 


28. S.O . 387, dated 16th Feb - Election Commission , 
ruary, 1959. 

India . 


Cilling upon the clecred mem 
bers of the Legislative Assembly 
of the State of Bombay to 
clect a person in the Council 
of States , 


Do. 


S . O . 388 , dated 16th Feb 

ruary , 1959 


Appointment of dates for nomi 

nation , scrutiny etc ., for clec 
tion in purgyance of Its qoti 
fication No. S . O . 387 (above .) 


Do . 


S . O . 389, dated 16th Feb 

ruary , 1959. 


Designates the Secre* try , Bom 

bay Legislature Department 
to be the Returning Officer 
for clection in pursuance of 
its Notification No. S . O . 387 
(above.) 


Do. . 


S . O . 390 , dated 16th Feb 

ruary , 1959 . 


Appointing Shri H . B . Shukla , De 

puty Secretary , Bombay Legis 
lature Department to assist the 
Returning Officer for election 
in purs 18 -7ce of Notlfication No . 

S . O . 387 ( above .) 
Fixation of hours for election in 

pursuance of Notification No. 
$ . O . 387 (above .) 


S . Q . 391, dated 16th Feb 

ruary , 1959 . 


Do . 


(467) 


468 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , 1959 / PHALGUNA 9 , 1880 [PART II 


Issue 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


No. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - -- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


29 . S . O . 392, dated 16th Feb - Ministry of Food and Authorising Shri D . D . Satlie , Sec 
ruary , 1959. Agriculture , 

retary to the Government of 
Bombay, Agriculture and Fo 
rests Department, to determine 
the average market rates of 
wheat, Jowar , bajra and maize 
in any locality in Bombay 
State , 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted so as to teach the Manager within ten days of the date of 188ue of 
those Gazettes. 


PART 1 - Section 3 - Sub -section (1 ) 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administrations of Union Territories ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 19th February 1959 
S . O . 440 . - Whereas the election of Shri Achint Ram as a member of the House 
of the People from the Patiala constituency , has been called in question by an 
election petition duly presented under Part VI of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, ( 43 of 1951) , by Dr. Dewan Singh , 20 , West Patel Nagar , New 
Delhi; 


And whereas the Election Tribunal appointed by the Election Commission in 
pursuance of the provisions of section 86 of the said Acl, for the trial of the 
said election petition , has, in pursuance of the provisions contained in section 111 
of the said Act , sent a report of the final withdrawal of the said election petition 
to the Commission ; 
. Now , therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 111 of the said Act, 
the Election Commission hereby publishes the said report of the Tribunal. 


IN THE COURT OF SHRI GURDEV SINGH , DISTRICT AND SESSIONS JUDGE , 

AND MEMBER ELECTION TRIBUNAL , LUDHIANA . 


ELECTION PETITION No. 429 OF 1957 
Dr, Dewan Singh v . Shri Achint Ram . 

22nd January 1989 . 
PRESENT : 

Shri B . S . Bindra , Advocate - for the petitioner, 

Nemo- for the respondent, 
The petitioner Dr. Dewan Singh applied on 14th November 1958 for permis 
sion to withdraw the petition . After the service of the notice of this application 
on the respondent and its publication in the official gazette the permission to 
withdraw the petition was granted by an order of this Tribunal dated the 30th 
December, 1958. A notice of the withdrawal has been duly published in the 
Government of India Gazette dated the 6th January , 1959, under clause ( b ) of 
Section 110 ( 3 ) of the Representation of the People Act. Though the period of 14 
days allowed under the law for an application to be substituted as petitioner in 
place of the party withdrawing the petition has elapsed , no one has come forward 


Sec . 3 (il )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , 1959 /PHALGUNA 9, 1880 


469 


to be substituted as petitioner in place of Dr . Dewan Singh . The report is accord 
ingly submitted to the Election Commission under section 111 of the Representa 
tion of the People Act for publication in the official gazette . 
The 22nd January , 1959. 

(Sd .) GURDEV SINGE 

Member , 
Election Tribuna), Ludhiana. 

[No. 82 /429 / 57 / 3180. ] 
New Delhi, the 21st February 1959 
S . O . 441. - In pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 86 of 
the Representation of the People Act , 1951, the Election Commission hereby 
publishes a copy of the Election Petition No. 2 of 1959, presented to the Com 
mission on the 30th January , 1959, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Vinaya 
Kumar Diwan , son of Shri Nand Kishore Dlwan , resident of Maragaon , Tehsil 
Hoshangabad , District Hoshangabad , Madhya Pradesh , calling in question the 
election to the House of the People from the Hoshangabad constituency of 
Shri Raghunathsingh Kiledar , son of Shri Benisingh Kiledar , Cultivator, resident 
of Bhugwara, Tehsil and District Narsinghpur, Madhya Pradesh , 

TRUE COPY 
Presented to me by Shri Vinaya Kumar Diwan 
whose signature has been obtained in the margin and 
attested as having been signed before me this the 
30th ( thirtieth ) day of January One Thousand Nine 
Hundred and Fifty -Nine. 

( Sd .) S . C . Roy, 

Secretary , Election Commission , India . 
( Sd .) VINAYA KUMAR DIWAN . 

Attested 
( Sd .) S . C . Roy , 
Secretary , Election Commission , India . 
BEFORE THE ELECTION COMMISSIONER , INDIA , NEW DELHI 

ELECTION PETITION NO . 2 OF 1959 
Re : Bye-Election to the House of the People (Lok Sabha ) from Hoshanga 

bad Parliamentary Constituency , State of Madhya Pradesh . 
Election Petition under Section 81 of the Representation of the People Act. 
Vinaya Kumar Diwan , S / o Nand Kishore Diwan , aged about 33. resident 
of Maragaon , Tah . Hoshangabad , Distt. Hoshangabad , M . P . - -Petitioner . 

Versus 
Shri Raghunathsingh Kiledar, son of Shri Benisingh Kiledar, aged 58, 

Cultivator , resident of Bhugwara , Tehsil and Distt . Narsinghpur, 

M . P . - Respondent. 
The Petitioner abovenamed Most Respectfully Showeth : 

1. That your petitioner is an elector enrolled as No. 178 in the electoral roll of 
Mouza Maragaon in Sohagpur Assembly Constituency comprised in Hoshangabad 
Parlamentary Constituency. He is therefore entitled to make this petition . 

2. That polling in the bye-election for a seat in the House of People from the 
Hoshangabad Parliamentary Constituency took place on the 13th and 14th 
December 1958 . Counting of votes took place on the 15th and 16th , and the 
following contesting candidates were declared to have received valid votes as 
shown hereunder : 

- - - - - - 
Name of Candidate 

No. of Votes Polcd . 


entitled comprised inlegtoral roll 


- 


45 , 321 


I. Shri Raghupathsingh Kiledar . 
2 , Shri Hari Vishnu Kamath . 
3 . Shri Nandlal Sharma, 

Invalid votes . 


40 ,318 


21,988 
6 ,967 


470 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28, 1959 /PHALGUNA 9 , 1880 (PART II 

= = = 
The respondent, Shri Raghunathsingh Klledar , having obtained the largest 
number of valid votes, was declared elected on the 16th December 1958 by the 
Returning Officer , Shri Deshrathlal Dubey , Collector, Hoshangabad , 

3 . The respondent was the offcial candidate on behalf of the Congress Party . 
Shri Hari Vishnu Kamath was the official candidate on behalf of the Praja 
Socialist Party , and Shri Nandlal Sharma was an Independent candidate . 


4 . That nomination papers in the said bye - election had been filed by respondent, 
Shri Raghunathsingh Kiledar, Shri Harivishnu Kamath , Shri Nandlal Sharma 
and one Shri Premchand Jain son of Shri Naraindas Jain of Jabalpur between 
the 18th and 28th October 1958 . The nomination papers of respondent Shri 
Raghunath Singh Kiledar , Shri Harivishnu Kamath and Shri Nandlal Sharma 
were accepted , while all the three nomination papers Aled by Shri Premchand 
Jain were rejected by the Returning Officer on the day of scrutiny viz . the 31st 
October , 1958 . 


5 . Petitioner states that the election of the respondent is void and should be 
declared void under section 100 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 
(hereinafter referred to as the Act ) on the following grounds. 
I. ( a ) The aforementioned Shri Premchand Jain , son of Shri Naraindas 

Jain , resident of 675, Lordgan ), Jabalpur whose electoral roll No. is 
3131, in Lordganj Ward No. 14 , Jabalpur City in Jabalpur City No. 1. 
M . P . Legislative Assembly Constituency comprised in Jabalpur 
Parliamentary constituency had submitted three nomination papers 
on 28th October , 1958 . He had also made the Security deposit as 
required by Section 34 of the Act . The said nomination papers were 
also accompanied by a certificate from the Election Officer , Jabalpur, 
certifying that Shri Premchand Jain was a voter from Lordganj Ward 

and that his name appeared in the Voters list bearing Serial No. 3131 ; 
( b ) The scrutiny of nominations took place on the 31st October 1958 and 

all the three nomination papers of Shri Prem Chand Jain were 

rejected by the Returning Officer on the ground that : 
That Shri Premchand Jain had not Aled either a copy of the Electoral Roll 

of the Constituency in which he is an elector , nor a certified copy 
of the relevant entries in such roll, as required by Section 33 ( 5 ) of 
the Act . Thus Shri Premchand Jain was not allowed to contest the 

election on account of rejection of his nomination papers . 
( c ) There was no objection at the time of Scrutiny that Shri Prernchand 

Jain is not an elector in a Parliamentary Constituency , but the only 
objection was that the document produced by him was not a certified 

copy of the relevant entry in the Electoral Roll. 
( d ) The rejection of the said nomination papers was illegal and improper 

for the following reasons : 
( 1 ) that the nomination papers of Shri Premchand Jain were accompanied 

by a certificate from the Election Officer of Jabalpur, and were 

therefore perfectly good and valid nomination papers . 
(ii ) The Returning Officer should have held that as Shri Premchand Jain 

had Aled a certificate from the Election Officer , Jabalpur , establishing 
the entry af his name in the electoral roll of Lordganj Ward, in 

Jabalpur Parliamentary Constituency , the same should have been 
Accepted as conclusive proof of the fact that Shri Premchand Jain 
is an elector for Jabalpur Parliamentary Constituency and thus 
entitled under Section 4 ( d ) of the Act to contest the bye - election 

from Hoshangabad Parliamentary Constituency. 
( iii ) As the Provisions of Section 33 (5 ) are intended to provide evidence 

of the fact of a person being and elector for any Parlia 
mentary Constituency , Shri Premchand Jain had complied with 

that particular provision of the Act. 
( iv ) In any case , it should have been held that the certificate issued by the 

Election Officer for Collector Jabalpur who is the Electoral 
Registration Officer of Jabalpur District was equivalent to a 

certified copy of the entry relating to Shri Premchand Jain in the 
electoral roll of Jabalpur Parliamentary Constituency . 


Şec . 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28, 1959 /PHALGUNA 9, 1880 


471 


( v ) The Returning Officer should have further found that the certificate 

of the Election Omcer , Jabalpur was cogent and conclusive evidence 
regarding the qualification of Shri Premchand Jain to contest the 
bye - election , and as the omission to Alle a certified copy of the 
electoral roll was not a defect, or in any event was not a defect of 
any substantial character , the nomination paper of Shri Premchand 

Jain should not have been rejected . 
( vi) That under proviso to section 36 ( 5 ) of the Act Shri Premchand Jain 

should have been allowed time to rebut the objection , and the 
Returning Officer should have postponed his decision to a date not 
later than the next day but one following the date fixed for 

scrutiny . 
(vii) That in the alternative the Returning Officer himselt should have 

sent for a copy of the relevant electoral - roll in order to satisfy 
himself that Shri Premchand Jain was an elector of Jabalpur 

Parliamentary Constituency . 
( viii) The three nomination papers of Shri Premchand Jain were thus 

improperly rejected and the said rejection makes the election of 

the returned candidate void under section 100 ( i) ( c ) of the Act . 
5 . II ( a ) That the polling and counting of votes in the bye - election were in 
gross violation of the Representation of People (Conduct of Election and Election 
Petition ) Rules 1956 . Thę marking system of voting was in total contravention 
of the aforesaid rules , particularly rules 21 and 28. The result of the election 
has been materially affected . The margin of Victory was only 5 ,003 votes while 
the number of invalid votes was 6 ,967. 

(b ) The Election Commission in contravention of Rules 21 and 28 and with 
out the sanction of Parliament as required by section 169 of the Act, introduced 
the following procedure for the casting of votes : 
( 1 ) Ballot papers bcaring names and symbols of all candidates were intro 

duced , and the elector desiring to cast his vote in favour of the 
particular candidate was asked to stamp with a rubber seal the 

name, party or symbol of that candidate . 
( ii ) That the marked ballot paper was to be inserted in a common ballot 

box . Thus the provision of keeping a separate ballot box for each 

candidate was done away with , 
( iii) The said change in the procedure created great confusion inasmuch as 

6 , 967 votes were wasted . This materially affected the result of the 
election . It has also resulted in depriving 6 , 967 electors of a proper 

opportunity of casting their yotes. 
( iv ) The amended rules are not yalid , inasmuch as the Central Government 

could not , while acting under its rule making powers conferred by 
section 169 of the R . P . Act, being itself a delegate , further sub 
delegate the functions contained in the said amended rules to the 

Election Commission . 
( v ) The said changes being illegal and ultravires has vitiated the entire 

election and made it illegal and yoid . It has also materially affect 
ed the result thereof and great prejudice was caused to the detriment 

of the defeated candidates . 
6 . The petitioner has deposited a sum of Rs. 1, 000 in Reserve Bank of India , 
New Delhi as Security for costs of this Petition in favour of the Secretary , 
Elcction Commission , India , and a Treasury Challan No. 45804, dated 28th 
January 1959 indicating the same is attached herewith , 

7. The petitioner files the following documents inter alia as per list attached 
with this Petition : 
It is, therefore, prayed that the Election of the Respondent be declared 
void ; 

and ! 
The Petitioner be awarded costs. 

( Sd.) VINAYA KUMAR DIWAN , 

Petitioner . 
NEW DELHI; 
The 30th January , 1959 . 


472 


THE, GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28, 1959 / PHALGUNA 9, 1880 (PART II 


Verification : 


I, Vinaya Kumar Diwan , do hereby verify and state that the contents of paras 
1, 2 , 3 , 4 and 6 are true to my personal knowledge, and contents of para o are 
true to my information received from others and believed to be true and para 7 
is based on records and documents and believed by me to be true . 


(Sd .) VINAYA KUMAR DIWAN , 


Petitioner . 


NEW DELHI; 
The 30th January , 1969. 


List of Annexures. 


- - - 


M . 


Annexure 
mark 


Annexure 


Description 


Para No. 


Α 


Certified copy of nomination paper No. A - 9 dated 28 - 10 - 58 of 
Sri Premchand Jain 

: 


4 & 5 I( A ) 


B 


Certified copy of Nomination paper No. A - to dated 28 - 10 -58 
of Sri Premchand Jain , 

. . . 


Do . 


C 


Certificd copy of Nomination paper No. A - Il dated 28 - 10 - 58 
of Sri Premchand Jain . 


Do. 


4 


D 


Certified copy of a certificate dated 20th Sept. 1958 issued by 

Sri R . L . Srivastava Election Officer, Jabalpur . . . 51 ( 1 ) 


5 


E 


Certificd copy of order of Returning Officer , Hoshangabad 

Sri D . L . Dubcy dated 31- 10 - 58 rejecting all three nomination 
papers of Sri Premchand Jain . . . . . . . 


4 & 5 I (b ) 


( Sd .) VINAYA KUMAR DIWAN , 


Petitioner . 


New Delhi, the 30th January 1959 . 


Verification . 


1 , Vinawa Kumar Diwan do hereby verify that the Annexures A , B , C , D , & E are true to my 
information received by me and based on records and documents and believed by me to be true. 

( $d , VINAYA KUMAR DIWAN ) 

Petitioner. 


New DELHI; 


The 30th January 1959 . 


SEC . 8 (L )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUIRY 28, 1959 / PHALGUNA 9, 1880 


___ 473 


COPY OF NOMINATION PAPER FILED IN THE OFFICE OF RETURNING 

OFFICER , HOSHANGABAD , FILED BY PREM CHAND JAIN 
REPRESENTATION OF THE PEOPLE (CONDUCT OF ELECTION AND ELECTION PETITIONS ) 

RULES , 1956 . 


FORM 2A 

फार्म क 
NOMINATION PAPER 

नाम निर्देश पत्र 
Election to the House of the People 

लोक -सभा के लिये निर्वाचन 


( To be filled by the proposer ) 

( प्रस्तावक द्वारा भरा जाय ) 
I, hereby nominate प्रेम चन्द जैन 

as a candidate for 
मैं इस के द्वारा 
election from the 

होशंगाबाद 

Parliamentary Constituency 
संसदीय निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से निर्वाचन के लिये एक 

उम्मेदवार के रूप में नाम निर्देश करता हूं । 
1 . Full name of proposer 

मदन लाल जैन 
१. प्रस्तावक का पूरा नाम 
2 . * Electoral roll number of proposer 
२.निर्वाचक नामावलि में प्रस्तावक का क्रमांक २६० शनीचरा वार्ड नं० २ होशंगाबाद ( शहर ) 
3. Name of candidate s * * father /husband 
३. उम्मेदवार के पिता पति का नाम नारायण दास 
4 . Full postal address of candidate 
४ . उम्मेदवार का डाक का पूरा पता ६७५ लाड गज जबलपुर 
5. * Electoral roll number of candidate 
५ . निर्वाचक नामावली में उम्मेदवारका क्रमांक न० ३१३१ लार्ड गंज वार्ड न० १४ जबलपुर शहर 

मदन लाल जैन 

Signature of proposer . 
Date : 
तारीख : २८ - १० -५८ 

प्रस्तावक के हस्ताक्षर 


( To be filled by the candidate ) 

( उम्मेदवार द्वारा भरा जाय ) 
I, the above -mentioned candidate , assent to this nomination and hereby 
declare: - 

मैं , ऊपर-लिखित उम्मेदवार इस के द्वारा, नाम निर्देश के लिये स्वीकृति देता हूं और घोषित 
करता हूं : 

(a ) that I have completed 31 years of age; 
( क ) कि मैं ३१ साल की आयु का हो चुका हूं , 


AHA 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28, 1959 /PHALGUNA 9, 1880 [PART II 


(b ) that the symbols I have chosen are in order of preference 
( ख ) मेरे द्वारा चुने गये चिह्नों का अधिमान क्रम 

(i) Two Bullocks with yoke on 


( २ ) 


( 4 ) Tree 

और 
( ill ) A cultivator winnowing grain 


Date: 
तारीख : २८ - १० - ५८ 


प्रेम चन्द जैन 
Signature of candidate . 

उम्मेदवार के हस्ताक्षर 


Here insert : - - 
यहां भरा जाय 

(i) the name of the Parliamentary constituency ; 
( १ ) संसदीय निर्वाचन क्षेत्र का ना - होशंगाबाद संसदीय निर्वाचन क्षेत्र 
( i ) the name of the component assembly constituency in the electoral 

rolls of which the name of the proposer or the candidate, as the case 

may be, has been entered ; 
( २ ) निर्वाचक नामावलि में संघटक सभा निर्वाचन क्षेत्र का नाम जिस में प्रस्तावक का 
अथवा उम्मेदवार का नाम प्रसंगानुसार लिख लिया गया है ; जबलपुर शहर नं० १ 

( विधान सभा क्षेत्र ) 
( ill ) the serial number of the part of the electoral roll in which such entry 

occurs; and 
( ३ ) निर्वाचक नामावली के भाग का क्रमांक जिस में ऐसी प्रविष्टि है, नं० १४ ( लार्ड 

और गंज बार्ड ) 
( iv ) the serial number of the entry in that part 
( ४ ) उस भाग की प्रतिविष्टि का क्रमांक - - नं० ३१३१ 


Illustration : 
उदाहरण : -- - 

Lucknow Parliamentary Constituency 
शखनऊ संसदीय निर्वाचन क्षेत्र 
Lucknow City East Assembly Constituency 

लखनऊ नगर पूर्व विधान सभा निर्वाचन क्षेत्र 
Part 7 ; 
भाग ७ 
No. 358 
क्रमांक ३५८ 


* * Strike off one of the alternatives as necessary . 
* * आवश्यकतानसार काट दिया जाय । 


SEC . (11) ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , 1959 /PHALGUNA 9, 1880 


( To be Alled by the Returning Officer ) 

(निर्वाचन अधिकारी द्वारा भरा जाय ) 
Serial No. of nomination paper : A8 
नाम -निर्देश पत्र क्रमांक : 

This nomination was delivered to me at my office at 12 - 32 P .M . (hour) on 
यह नाम निर्देश मेरे कार्यालय में 

( बजे ) 
28th October, 1958 (date) by the * * candidate / 
(तारीख ) को * * उम्मेदवार/ प्रस्तावक द्वारा मुझे सौंपा गया । 

__ D . L . DUBE , 
Date: 28 - 10 -58. 

| Returning Oficer . 
तारीख : 

निर्वाचन अधिकारी 
Decision of Returning Officer accepting or rejecting the nomination Paper . 

निर्वाचन अधिकारी द्वारा नाम निर्देश पत्र को स्वीकार करने या अस्वीकार करने का निर्णय । 
I have examined this nomination paper in accordance with section 36 of the 
Representation of the People Act , 1951 , and decide as follows: --- 

लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम, १९५१ की धारा ३६ के अनुसार मैं ने नाम-निर्देश पत्र की 
जांघ कर ली है और निम्नानुसार निर्णय करता हूं : 
Date ; 

| Returning Officer . 
तारीख : 

निर्वाचन अधिकारी 


COPY OF NOMINATION PAPER FILED IN THE OFFICE OF RETURNING 

OFFICER , HOSHANGABAD , FILED BY HAZARI LAL . 
Representation of the People (Conduct of Election and Election Petitions ) Rules , 

1958. । 
FORM 2A . 

फार्म २क 
NOMINATION PAPER 

नाम निर्देश पत्र 
Election to the House of the People 

लोक सभा के लिये निर्वाचन 


( To be filled by the proposer ) 

( प्रस्तावक द्वारा भरा जाय ) 
I, hereby nominate 

प्रेम चन्द जैन 

as a candidate for 
मैं , इस के द्वारा 
election from the 

होशंगाबाद 

Parliamentary Constituency . 
संसदीय निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से निर्वाचन के लिये एक 

उम्मेदवार के रूप में नाम निर्देश करता हैं । 
1. Full name of proposer : 
१ . प्रस्तावक का पूरा नाम : 

हजारी लाल 
2. * Electoral roll number of proposer : 
२ .निर्वाचक नामावली में प्रस्तावक का क्रमांक : १५० शनीचरा वार्ड नं० २, होशंगाबाद । 


476 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , 1959 / PHALGUNA 9, 1880 PART II 


- 


- 


3. Name of candidate s * " father / husband ; 
३. उम्मेदवार के * *पिता/ पति का नाम नारायण वास 
4. Full postal address of candidate : 
४. उम्मेदवार का डाक का पूरा पता : ६७५ लाई गंज, जबलपुर 
5. " Electoral roll number of candidate : 
५ . *निर्वाचक नामावली में उम्मेदवार का क्रमांक : नं . ३१३१ लाई गंज वार्ड नं० १४ , जबलपुर 

शहर 


Date: 
तारीख : २८ - १० -५८ 


हजारी लाल 
Signature of proposer. 

प्रस्तावक के हस्ताक्षर 


( To be filled by the candidate ) , 


( उम्मेदवार द्वारा भरा जाय ) 


I, the above -mentioned candidate, assent to this nomination and hereby 
declare: --- 

मैं , उपर -लिखित उम्मेदवार , इस के द्वारा, नाम निर्देश के लिये स्वीकृति देता हूं और घोषित 


करता हूं : 


years of age ; 


(a ) that I have completed 
( क ) कि मैं ३१ साल की प्रायु का हो चुका ; 


( b ) that the symbols I have chosen are in order of preference: 


( स ) मेरे द्वारा चुने गये चिह्नों का अधिमान क्रम : 

( 1) Two Bullocks with yoke on 


(U ) A cultivator winnowing grain 
( २ ) 

और 
( iii ) x x 


Date : 
तारीख : २५- १० - ५८ 


प्रेम चन्द जैन 
Signature of candidate. 

उम्मेदवार के हस्ताक्षर 


- 


- 


- - - 


SIC, 9 (U )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28, 1959 / PHALGUNA 9 , 1880 


47 


- 


" 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Here insert: -- 
यहां भरा जाय : - - 

(i) the name of the Parliamentary constituency : 
( १ ) संसदीय निर्वाचन क्षेत्र का नाम : होशंगाबाद संसदीयनिर्वाचन क्षेत्र 
( ii ) the name of the component assembly constituency in the electoral 

rolls of which the name of the proposer or the candidate , as the case 

may be, has been entered ; 
( २ ) निर्वाचक नामावली में संघटक सभा निर्वाचन क्षेत्र का नाम जिसमें प्रस्तावक का अथवा उम्मेदवार 

का नाम प्रसंगानुसार लिख लिया गया है : जबलपुर शहर विधान सभा निर्वाचन क्षेत्र नं . १ 
( iii ) the serial number of the part of the electoral roll in which such entry 

occurs; and 
( ३ ) निर्वाचक नामावली के भाग का क्रमांक जिसमें ऐसी प्रविष्टि है : भाग १४ ( लार्डगंज वार्य ) 

और 


(iv ) the serial number of the entry in that part : 
( ४ ) उस भाग की प्रति विष्टि का क्रमांक नं० : ३१३१ 
Illustration : 
उदाहरण : 

Lucknow Parliamentary Constituency 
लखनऊ संसदीय निर्वाचन - क्षेत्र 

Lucknow City East Assembly Constituency 
लखनऊ नगर पूर्व विधान सभा निर्वाचन क्षेत्र 


Part 7 : 
भाग ७ : 


No. 358 
क्रमांक : ३५८ 


* * Strike off one of the alternatives as necessary . 
* * आवश्यकतानुसार काट दिया जाय । 


( To be filled by the Returning Officer ) 

(निर्वाचन अधिकारी द्वारा भरा जाय ) 
Serlal No . of nomination paper: A10 . 
नाम -निर्देश पत्र क्रमांक : 
This nomination was delivered to me at my office at 12- 32 P.M . (hour) on 
यह नाम निर्देश मेरे कार्यालय में 

( बजे ) 
28th October, 1958 (date ) by the * * candidate . 

( तारीख ) को * * उम्मेदवार-प्रस्ताफ द्वारा मुझे सौंपा गया । 


Date: 28 - 10 - 58. 


D . L . DUBE , 
Returning Officer 
निर्वाचन अधिकारी 


तारीख : 


478 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , 1959 / PHALGUNA 9, 1880 [ PART II 


Decision of Returning Officer accepting or rejecting the nomination Paper. 
निर्वाचन अधिकारी द्वारा नाम -निर्देश पत्र को वंकार करने या अस्वीकार करने का निर्णय । 

I have examined this nomination paper in accordance with section 36 of the 
Representation of the People Act , 1951, and decide as follows: 
लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , १९५१ की धारा ३६ के अनुसार मैंने नाम-निर्देश पत्र की जांच कर ली 
है और निम्नानुसार निर्णय करता हूं : -- 
Date: 

Returning Omcer. 
तारीख : 

निर्वाचन अधिकारी 


COPY OF NOMINATION PAPER FILED IN THE OFFICE OF RETURNING 

OFFICER, HOSHANGABAD , FILED BY BANSI LAL . 
Representation of the People (Conduct of Election and Election Petitions ) Rules, 

1856, . 


FORM 2A 


फार्म २क 


NOMINATION PAPER 

नाम निर्देश पत्र 
Election to the House of the People 

लोक सभा के लिये निर्वाचन 


- - --- 


- - 


( To be filled by the proposer ) 
( प्रस्तावक द्वारा भरा जाय ) 

प्रेम चन्द जैन आजाद 


As a candidate for 


I, hereby nominate 

मैं इसके द्वारा 
election from the 


होशंगाबाद 

Parliamentary Constituency . 
संसदीम निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से निर्वाचन के लिये एक 

उम्मेदवार के रूप में नाम निर्देश करता हूं 


1. Full name of proposer : 
१ . प्रस्तावक का पूरा नाम : बन्सीलाल 
2. * Electoral roll number of proposer : 
२ . निर्वाचक नामावली में प्रस्तावक का क्रमांकः नं . १४० सुभाषगंज वार्ड नं० १८ इटारसी 

( शहर ) 
3. Name of candidate s * * father / husband ; 
३. उम्मेदवार के पिता का नाम : नारायणदास 


4. Full postal address of candidate : 
४. उम्मेदवार का डाक का पूरा पता: ६७५, जवाहर गंज, जबलपुर 


Szc. 3 (1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28, 1959 / PHALGUNA 9, 1880 


479 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


. 


5 . * Electoral roll number of candidate : 
५ . निर्वाचक नामावली में उम्मेदवार का क्रमांक : नं०३१३१ लार्डगंज वार्ड नं० १४, जबलपुर । 

बन्सीलाल 
Date : 

Signature of proposer. 
तारीख: . २८-१०-५८ 

प्रस्तावक के हस्ताक्षर 


( To be Alled by the candidate ) 
( उम्मेदवार द्वारा भरा जाय ) 


I, the above -mentioned candidate, assent to this nomination and hereby 
declare : - 
____ मैं , उपर-लिखित उम्मेदवार इसके द्वारा , नाम निर्देश के लियेस्वीकृति देता हूं और घोषित करता 


(a ) that I have completed 

years of age; 
( क ) कि मैं ३१ साल की आयु का हो चुका हूं ; 

(b ) that the symbols I have chosen are in order of preference 
( ख ) मेरे द्वारा चुने गये चिन्हों का अधिमान क्रम : 

(i) Two Bullocks with yoke on 


(ii) A cultivator winnowing grain 
( २ ) 
( iii ) Tree 


और 


प्रेमचन्द जैन अाजाद 
| Signature of candidate. . 

उम्मेदवार के हस्ताक्षर 


Date : 
तारीख : २८ - १० -५८ 


Here insert : 
यहाँ भरा जाय : 

( 1) the name of the Parliamentary constituency 
( १ ) संसदीय निर्वाचन क्षेत्र का नामः होशंगाबाद संसदीय निर्वाचन क्षेत्र । 
( 11 ) the name of the component assembly constituency in the electoral 

rolls of which the name of the proposer or the candidate , as the case 

may be, has been entered ; 
( २ ) निर्वाचक नामावली में संघटक सभा निर्वाचन क्षेत्र का नाम जिसमें प्रस्तावक का अथवा . 

उम्मेदवार का नाम प्रसंगानुसार लिख लिया गया है : जबलपुर शहर नं० १ विधान सभाक्षेत्र 


(11 ) the serial number of the part of the electoral roll in which such entry 

occurs ; and 
( ३ ) निर्वाचक नामावली के भाग का क्रमांक जिसमें ऐसी प्रविष्टि है: १४ ( लार्डगंज ) 

और 
(lv ) the serial number of the entry in that part : 
( ४ ) उस भाग की प्रतिविष्टि का क्रमांक : ३१३१ 


480 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28, 1959 / PHALGUNA 9 , 1880 [PART II 


Illustration : 
उदाहरण : 


Lucknow Parliamentary Constituency 
लखनऊ संसदीय निर्वाचन क्षेत्र 


Lucknow City East Assembly Constituency 
लखनऊ नगर पूर्व विधान सभा निर्वाचन क्षेत्र 


Part 7 ; 
भाग ७ : 


No. 358 
क्रमांक : ३५८ 


_ 


v 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- -- 


* * Strike off one of the alternatives as necessary . 
* * आवश्यकतानुसार काट दिया जाय । 


( To be illed by the Returning Officer ) 


(निर्वाचन अधिकारी द्वारा भरा जाए ) 


Serial No. of nomination paper : A11 
नाम-निर्देश पत्र क्रमांक : 


This nomination was delivered to me at my office at 12 - 32 P .M . (hour ) on 
यह नाम -निर्देश मेरे कार्यालय में 

( बजे ) 
28th October, 1968 (date ) by the * * candidate : 
( तारीख ) को * * उम्मेदवार/ प्रस्तावक द्वारा मुझे सौंपा गया । 

____ D. L . DUBE , 
Date: 28- 10 - 58. 

· Returning Officer. 
तारीख : 

निर्वाचन अधिकारी 


Decision of Returning Officer accepting or rejecting the nomination Paper . 
निर्वाचन अधिकारी द्वारा नाम -निर्देश पत्र को स्वीकार करने या अस्वीकार करने का निर्णय । 


I have examined this nomination paper in accordance with section 36 of the 
Representation of the People Act , 1951, and decide as follows: 

लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , १९५१, की धारा ३६ के अनुसार मैंने नाम-निर्देश पत्र की जांच 
कर ली है और निम्नानुसार निर्णय करता है । 

• Returning Officer . 

निर्वाचन अधिकारी 
Date : 
तारीख : 


Şec . (u )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , 1959 /PHALGUNA 9 , 1880 


- - 


S 


EXPRESS COPYING APPLICATION No. 2642 /58 
Copy of Election Officer, Jabalpur No. Q / E .O ., dated the 20th September , 
1958, Hled in the court of the Returning Officer , Hoshangabad, in respect of Shri 
Prem Chand Jain , Jabalpur . 

OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR , JABALPUR . 
No. Q / EO . 

Jabalpur , dated the 20th September , 1968 . 
Certified that Shri Prem Chand Jain , son of Narayan Das , 675 , Lord Ganj, 
Jabalpur is a voter of Lordgunj ward . His name appears in the voter list stated 
above bearing S . No . 3131. 

R . L . SHRIVASTAVA , 

| Election Officer , 
for Collector , Jabalpur. 


EXPRESS COPYING APPLICATION No. 2642 / 58 
Copy of order passed on 31st October , 1958 in the court of Returning Officer , 
Hoshangabad , filed in the election file , in respect of Shri Prem Chand Jain . 


OFFICE OF THE RETURNING OFFICER , HOSHANGABAD . 


(it) Thate thenstituenceof our 


ORDER 
(Passed on the 31st day of October 1968 ) 
Objection has been raised to the acceptance of the nomination papers Aled 
by Shri Premchand Jain on the following grounds : 
( i ) That the electoral roll No. of proposer and the electoral roll No . of 

the candidate have not been given in the Nomination paper in the 

manner in which these columns should be filled in . 
( ii ) That the candidate has not Aled either a copy of the electoral roll of 

the constituency in which he is an electoral or a copy of the rele 
vant part thereof or a certified copy of the relevant entries in such 
roll as required by section 33, sub - section 5 of the Representation of 

the People s Act, 1951 . 
(iii ) That the candidate has chosen as his first preference the symbol which 

is party symbol of the Congress . 
2 . The objection Nos . 1 and 3 are minar objections and could be over ruled 
as not forming any substantial objection to the nomination of the candidate . 
The objection No. 2 is a major objection and I agree with the objector that in 
the absence of the documents mentioned in section 33 , sub - section 5 of the 
Representation of the People s Act these nomination papers must be rejected . 
Accordingly these nomination papers are rejected . 

D . L . DUBEY, 
Returning Officer , 

Hoshangabad . 
(No. 82 / 2 / 59 / 3301. ) 


New Delhi, the 23rd February 1989 
8 . 0 . 442. In pursuance of the provisions of sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 140 of the 
Representation of the People (Conduct of Elections and Election Petitions ) Rules , 
1956 , and in continuation of its notification No. 82 / 439 /57, dated the 9th September , 
1958 / Bhadra 18 . 1880 Şaka published in the Gazette of India , Extraordinary Part 
II - Section 3 - Sub - section ( ii) No. 188, dated the 13th September , 1958 / Bhadra , 
22, 1880 , the Election Commission hereby publishes the Judgment of the High 
Court at Calcutta delivered on the 27th January , 1959 , on the appeals filed by 
Sarvashri Brojagopal Das. Nirmal Chandra Das and Biren Roy , against the order 
dated the 27th August, 1958, of the Election Tribunal, Allpore - Calcutta in Election 
Petition No. 439 of 1957. 


482 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , 1959 / PHALGUNA 9, 1880 (PART II 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION 
The 27th January , 1959 

PRESENT; 
The Hon ble Paresh Nath Mookerjee 


AND 


The Hon ble Panch Kari Sarkar . 

Two of the Judges of this Court. 
Appeal from Original Decrees Nos . 278 of 1958, 279 of 1958 and 282 of 1958 
(Election Appeals ) . 

Appeals against the decree of Sri Bijayesh Mukherjee Election Tribunal, 
Calcutta (West Bengal) in Election Petitions Nos . 439 of 1957 dated the 27th 
August , 1958. 

In No. 278 Brojagopal Das Appellant. 
In No. 279 Nirmal Chandra Das - Appellant . 
In No. 282 Biren Roy - Appellant. 

Versus 
In Nos . 278 and 279 and 282 Kalipada Banerjee and others -- Respondents, 
Mr. Jitendra Kumar Sen Gupta , and 
Mr. Asoke Kumar Şen Gupta in 278 . 
Mr. Prafulla Kumar Roy, and 
Mr. Manash Nath Roy, in 279 ; and 
Mr. S . K . Achariya, and 
Mr. Manindra Chandra Chakravarty , in 282- -for appellants. 
Mr. S . M , Bose, Advocate General. 
Mr. A . C . Mitter . 
Mr. Mahadev Hazra , 
Mr. Birendra Nath Banerjee . 
Mr, Dipankar Gupta , and 

Mr. Dwijen Lahirt, in all the 3 appeals — for respondents. 
P . N . Mookerjee J : 

These three appeals are directed against the declaration granted by an Election 
Tribunal, that a certain parliamentary election is void . The respective appellants 
are Sri Brojo Gopal Das, and Sri Nirmal Chandra Das, two of the persons who 
were substituted under section 116 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, 
in place of the original contesting respondent before the tribunal, namely , Sri Biren 
Roy , who was the successful candidate at the above election , upon the latters 
retirement from contest , and the said Biren Roy himself is the appellant in the 
third or the other appeal. 

The proceedings had had a chequered career before the Tribunal and they 
were lively and interesting and the questions that arose for consideration had also 
their own peculiar dimiculties and interest. 

The election in question was the last General Election of the Calcutta South 
West Parliamentary Constituency . held in March 1957 in which Sri Biren Roy 
was elected from the said constituency to the Lok Sabha or the House of the 
People . There were three candidates, ( one ) Biren Roy ( two ) Asim Krishna Dutta 
and ( three ) Rajani Mukerjee . They repectively polled 94, 944 ,82, 406 and 11, 297 
votes at the polling which took place on two datcs namely the 4th and the 14th 
March 1957 and Roy was declared elected on March 20 , 1957, when the results 
of the voting were announced . 

On May 3 , 1957 the first two respondents of the present appeal, namely , 
Kalipada Banerjee and Anil Kumar Sadhukhan who " at all material times were 
citizens of India and residents of Calcutta " within the above constituency and 
" were electors of the same and entitled to yote " at the above election , applled 
before the Election Commission , New Delhi, for a declaration that the above , 


Sec . 3 (11) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , 1959 / PHALGUNA 9, 1880 


election namely of Sri Roy was void on certain grounds, of which the relevant 
ones will be duly noticed and referred to in the course of this judgment. The 
application (petition ) in which originally all the three candidates , the successful 
Roy as well as the two defeated candidates Dutta and Mukerjee , were made 
parties as respondents, was registered as Election Petition No. 439 of 1957 and 
after the necessary preliminaries, it was forwarded by the Chief Election Com 
missioner and sent for Trial to Sri Bijoyesh Mukerjee , Additional District Judge , 
24 -Parganas , who had meanwhile been constituted the Tribunal for the purpose 
under section 86 of the Represontation of the People Act , 1931, That was in 
June 1957, and the first date of appearance of the parties before the Tribunal was 
fixed as July 18 , 1957. On or before that date , the first two respondents, Roy and 
Dutt , duly appeared before the Tribunal and , on the 25th following the Tribunal 
by its order of that date , held that, in view of the fact that the only prayer 
of the petitioners in their instant election petition was for a declaration that the 
above election , namely , of Biren Roy was void , Roy and none else was the 
necessary and proper respondent and directed that the names of Sri Dutta and 
Sri Mukerjee should be struck off. The Tribunal also overruled and the technical 
objection of respondent Roy to the maintainability of the instant election petition 
on account of deposit of the security for costs Rs. 1 ,000 in the name of the Election 
Commission , New Delhi, instead of in the name of the Secretary to that Commis 
sion in literal compliance with section 117 of the Act, holding inter alia that there 
was substantial compliance with the said provision and such substantial com 
pliance was suffcient under the law . The proceedings then continued against 
the sole respondent Biren Roy and after the preliminary steps had been taken by 
the parties , the hearing actually commenced on April 25 , 1958 . Between that 
date and May 9 , 1958 nine witnesses P .Ws. Nos . 1 to 9 were examined by the 
petitioners of whom two ( P .Ws. Nos . 4 and 9 ) were examined in part during the 
said period . In the meantime, the Tribunal s order , regarding the validity and 
sufficiency of the deposit, had been upheld by this court in a proceeding under 
Article 226 of the constitution and the respondent Roy had applied before the 
Election Commission for transfer of the instant case to some other Tribunal. 

On and from May 10 , 1958 certain events of importance happened in quick 
succession . At the first sitting of the Tribunal on that date the respondent Roy 
applied for a stay of the proceedings till the disposal of his transfer application by 
the Election Commission and , that prayer haying been refused by the Tribunal 
and a prayer for a short adjournment of one hour having also been refused , Roy s 
Advocates retired from the case . Thereafter the proceedings continued ex parte 
trom the 10 to the 17th May , 1958 , during which period evidence of P .Ws. Nos . 4 
and 9 was concluded and the evidence of P .Ws. Nos. 10 , 11 and 12 was also taken 
and P . W . No. 6 was recalled and further examined and then arguments on behalt 
of the petitioners were heard . The Tribunal, however, had to reserve judgment 
as meanwhile this court (Sinha J ) had issued a Rule , injuncting him from 
delivering judgment until the said Rule was disposed of or until the disposal of 
Roy s transfer application by the Election Commission , whichever is earlier , and , 
accordingly, the Tribunal directed the records to be put up on May 24 , 1958 . 

On May 23 , 1958 two applications were moved , one by the appellant Nirmal 
Chandra Das and the other by another person Santosh Kumar Banerjee , praying 
inter alia for appropriate action under section 116 of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, and the said applications were eventually fixed for hearing 
on the 28th by the Tribunals order of May 24 , 1958. On that very day, however 
namely the 24th , Roy himself filed an application before the Tribunal intimating 
to it that he had withdrawn and / or retired from the case on May 10 , 1958 and 
intimating further that he would not oppose the instant Election Petition . All 
the above three applications were heard by the Tribunal on May 28 , 1958 and by 
its order, dated June 2 , 1953 , the Tribunal came to the conclusion that the pro 
visions of section 116 of the Act should be set in motion and he directed necessary 
steps to be taken in terms of that section . The relevant Notification under the 
Section was thereafter published in the Gazette of India Extraordinary on June 
16 , 1958, and , within the statutory period of 14 days, several persons including the 
two appellants in the first two appeals before us, applied under section 116 for , 
inter alia , substitution in place of the original respondent Sri Biren Roy and per 
mission to oppose the Election Petition and continue the proceedings on such 
terms as the Tribunal might think fit and proper . 

On July 3 , 1958, the Tribunal allowed the said applications upon two terms, 
viz . ( 1 ) " The applicant or the applicants of each application do deposit by July 
10 , 1958 , a sum of Rs. 1, 000 ( Rupees one thousand only ) either in a Government 
Treasury or in the Reserve Bank of India in favour of the Secretary , Election 
Commission , New Delhi, as security for costs . The relevant receipt must be 
filed before this Tribunal on or before that date , viz . July 10 , 1958. Should this 


484 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , 1959/ PHALGUNA 9, 1880 [PART II 


direction be not complied with , the applicant or the applicants concerned shall 
not be substituted in place of the sole respondent Biren Roy and shall not be 
entitled to continue the proceedings ." 

and ( ii ) " The hearing shall continue from the stage at which it was at 10 . 30 
A . M , on May 10 , 1958 ." and issued certain other directives which were recorded as 
follows : 

“ 1, Written statements if any , must be fled by July 14, 1958 . 
2 . Documents, if any , must be Aled by July 18 , 1958 . 
3. July 18 , 1968 iş get down for flxation of new issues , if any, and 
4 . July 21, 1958 is set down for completion of all steps including citation of 

witnesses and for setting a date of peremptory hearing. I give an 
Intimation in advance that the election petition shall be set down for 
peremptory hearing again on or about August 5 , 1958 " . 


The deposit wag duly made by three sets of applicants including the above 
two appellants and they also Aled written statements . No documents , however , 
were filled by any party and on July 18 , 1958 " the matter of fixation of new 
issues " was -heard by the Tribunal. Eventually , however, the Tribunal did not 
frame any new issue and proceeded with the trial on the old or " existing " issues , 
of which all, except the first part of issue No . 3 , which as finally recasts was in 
these terms: 


" Is Shri Biren Roy disqualified for being chosen as a member of the Lok 

Sabha because of his connection with a firm under the name end 

style of Indo German Trade Centre ? " 
was given up by the petitioners. The Tribunal, however , by wav of clarification , 
recorded its intention to discuss the above part of issue No. 3, under the following 
heads, viz ., 
" ( i) Did the Indo German Trade Centre enter into a contract with the 

Central Government for the installation of nutomatic vote recording 

equipment in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha ? 
(ii ) Was the aforesaid contract subsisting on the date of the election of the 

returned candidate Shri Biren Roy to wit, on March 20 , 1957 ? 
( ili ) Has the returned candidate Shri Biren Roy , any share or interest in 

the aforesaid contract ? " 
and adjourned the case to August 5 , 1968 , for resumption of the interrupted per 
emptosv hearing, directing the petitioners to bring " all their witnesses , examined 
on and from Mav 10 , 1958 " and directing further that the hearing would continue 
de die in diem , Saturdays and holidays excepted.” On August 5 , 1958 P . W . No. 9 
was cross examined on behalf of the " added ” or substituted respondents and 
discharged and , thereafter , P . W . No . 10 K , C . Ghose , was cross examined in part 
by the said respondents . This cross examination of K . C . Ghose , P . W . No. 10 
continued upto the 7th when it concluded and thereafter, he was recalled and 
further examined and also cross examined again on the 8th when he was Anally 
discharged and on the same date , P .Ws. Nos. 11 and 12 were also cross rixamined 
And discharged and , thereafter the case was fixed for argument on the 16th and 
" added " ( substituted ) respondents having intimated to the Tribunal that they 
would not lead any oral evidence . On the 16th and the 18th , arguments were 
heard , and thereafter judgment was reserved by the Tithunal till the 27th when 
the Election Petition was allowed and the election of Sri Roy was declared void by 
the Tribunal. The present appeals are directed ngainst this derlaration , the first 
two appeals by the two " added ” ( substituted ) respondents Brojo Gopal Das and 
Nirmal Chandra Das, and that third by the original respondent Biren Roy , the 
successful or the returned candidate at the said impugned Election . 

The controvergy in the present case, as we have seen above, centres round 
the first part of issue No. 3 , which we have quoted earlier as hereunder : 
" Is Shri Biren Roy disqualifled for being chosen as a member of the Lok 

Sabha hecause of his connection with a firm under the name and 

style of Indo German Trade Centre ? " 
The quoted issue requires a little explanation . In the light of the pleadings 
( Vide Paragraphs 8B of the instant election petition ) the relevant allegation is that 
the firm Indo -German Trade Centre entered into a contract or contracts with 


Sec . 3 (11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : . 


UA 


28, 


AL . .. 9, 


. 


the Government of India or the Central Government for installation of automa 
tic vote recording equipments in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha which 
contract ( or contracts ) subsisted on the date of election and the respondent 
Sri Roy , at the said material time had share or interest in the aforesaid contract 
(or contracts ) within the meaning of Sec. 7 ( d ) of the Representation of the 
People Act , 1951 and was as such disqualified to be chosen to be elected to the 
Lok Sabha under Sec . 100 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the said Act. That was the substance of the 
allegation on which Roy s election was challenged and on which the parties 
differed and upon which the fate of the instant election petition depended . The 
Tribunal, therefore, did the right thing in clearing up the matter betore the 
resumed hearing by declaring that the relevant issue that is, the first part of 
issue No. 3 , would be discussed under the three heads which have been set out 
hereinbefore . Indeed , the above approach of the Tribunal was not objected to 
by the appellants , but what they complained was , and that was one of their 
grievances in these appeals , that they were not allowed to place full materials 
before the Tribunal on the first and to some extent, on the third too, of the above 
three questions. We shall return to that aspect later on . 

In the light of our above observations we shall deal with the controversy in 
the present case under the above three heads and we proceed to do so seriatim . 

Upon the written statement of Roy himself ( vide paragraphs 21 and 22 ) it is 
fairly clear that the disputed contract or contracts were made by the Indo -German 
Trade Centre with the Central Government. Strictly speaking it was not open 
to the " added " ( substituted ) respondents who were really substituted in place of 
Roy under Sec. 116 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, to deviate 
from that Pleading and make a new or different case on the point and as a mat 
ter of fact, in their applications for substitution , filled on June 24 , 1958 the two 
" added " or substituted respondents who are appellants in the two Appeals 
( F . A . Nos, 278 and 279 of 1958 ) expressly stated , inter alia that they wanted to 
adopt the written statement of respondent Biren Roy and prayed for permission 
to do the same and to cross examine P Ws, Nos . 9 , 10 , 11 and 12 and Ale and call 
for documents , particularly from B . K . Mukherjee (vide paragraph 6 and the 
prayer portion of appellant Brojogopal Das s petition and paragraph 5 and prayer 
portion of the petition of appellant Nirmal Chandra Das ). It is true that there 
after on July 14 , 1958 they filed another set of written statements apparently 
under the relative directive of the Tribunal, dated July 3 , 1958 and therein they 
sought to supplement Roy s written statement by certain additions, but, even 
there we do not find anything in effective denial or contradiction of the position , 
taken up by Roy on the above point in paragraphs 21 and 22 of his above written 
statement, to which reference has been made by us. As a matter of fact, appel 
lant Nirmal Chandra Das again expressly adopted Roy s written atatement and 
appellant Brojo Gopal also alleged nothing to its contrary . The latter . no doubt . 
in paragraph 11 of his said new written statement Aled on July 14 , 1958 , stated 
inter alia , that the aforesaid " Indo -German Trade Centre has or had no share 
or profit or interest in the contract of automatic vote recording equipment refer 
red to by the petitioners in their election petition ." But that was hardly an 
effective denial of Indo -German Trade Centro s being or having been the con 
tracting party with the Central Government in the matter of the said contract 
or contracts . Even on the pleadings, therefore, apart from any evidence, the Arst 
of the above three questions should be answered in the affirmative . But there 
is evidence also which plainly supports the same ( vide Exts . 4 , 5 , 6 and 7 and the 
oral evidence of P . W . No . 17 and also Ext. A ) and indeed , as it appears from the 
Tribunal s judgment, the above position was practically conceded by Brojo 
Gopal s Advocate before the Tribunal. Reference may also be made in the above 
connection to the letters, Exts. 3 series and 8 series, which also lend support to 
our above conclusion . It will also be seen later on that the appellant s main 
grievance on this point that they were prejudiced by the Tribunals s refusal to 
allow certain cross examination of P . W . 10 has no substance in the facts of this 
particular case . 

On the second question too , we feel not the slightest hesitation in agreeing 
with the Tribunal. Apart from the evidence of P . W . No 1 on the point, on which 
the Tribunal relied , we think that the position was admitted that full payment had 
not been made on the contracts in question till at least. April , 1957, [vide letter 
Ext. 3 (48 ) 1 and in view of the Supreme Court s decision in the case of Chattur 
bhuj Vithaldas Jasani Vs. Moreswar Parasharam and others ( 1954) S . C . A , 378 
at pp . 387- 8 , S . C . A . I. R . 1954 , S . C . 236 at p . 242 until such payment was made the 
contracts must be held to have been subsisting for purposes of Sec . 7 ( d ) of the 
representation of the People Act , 1951. The answer to this question also must, 
therefore , be in the affirmative, as correctly given by the Tribunal. On this part 
of the case the appellants argument was that the relevant date would be the 


486 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , 1959 / PHALGUNA 9 , 1880 [PART II 


= 


date of election which , according to Sec. 67A of the Act, would be the date of 
declaration of the result of election , that is , March 20, 1957 and on that date , 
the disputed contracts were not subsisting , they having been fully executed by 
that time and only some payment thereunder remaining outstanding. That 
March 20 , 1957 would be the relevant date for the present purpose need not be 
disputed and as a matter of fact, the question itself was framed or formulated 
on that footing, but in the view of the law , which we have given above, the 
answer to the above ( second ) qucstion would be in the affirmative , even if the 
relevant date be the 20th March , 1957 as on the facts of this case [vide sub 3 ( 48 ) ] 
to which reference has been made above and which cannot be disputed , payments 
under the above two contracts were still outstanding . 

The English law on the point may be different [vide for Roysc vs. Birley 
( 1869 ) 4 C . P . 296 but even if it is so , in this country and our law the position is, 
as we have indicated above , in view of the Supreme Court s decision in Chattur 
bhuja s case, supra . - That being so , in the facts of this particular case, this 
question too should be accorded in the affirmative and , accordingly we afflrm 
the Tribunals conclusion on this point. 

We come now to the most diMcult part of the case , that is, the third ques 
tion formulated above, which runs as follows viz ., " Has the returned candidate 
Sri Biren Roy any share or interest in the aforesaid contract ? ” 

This indeed , a very serious matter and required very careful consideration 
particularly when Roy won the disputed election by the very comfortable margin 
of 12.538 votes . Such an clection should not be lightly interfered with and 
should not be touched except on very strong and compelling grounds. That es 
it appcars from the Tribunals judgment was one of the things which the Tribunal 
had uppermost in its mind and that attitude of the Tribunal is fully justified 
by the authority of the Supreme Court (Vide Jagan Nath V8. Jaswant Singh and 
others A . I. K . 1954 S . C . 210 at p . 212 ) . It is to be remembered , however that this 
by itself, would not be any ground for maintaining the impunged election if it 
really suffers from any material or fatal defect or infirmity , if for instance , to 
take this instant casc, it ultimately runs out that the successful candidate Roy 
suffered from the alleged disqualification at the material date, the mere fact 
that he won the election or won at by a very comfortable margin , may be by 
overwhelming votes would not justify the rejection of the instant election peti 
tion . It will be only in border line cases or where the ground for setting aside 
the election or for a declaration that it was void is not wholly or absolutely clear 
or free from doubt that the elected candidate , by reason of his election , the 
more so , where he won by a comfortable margin , may have a weightage in his 
favour and may get the benefit of doubt. In judging, again , the validity of the 
ground , the court and the Tribunal will undoubtedly be more careful and more 
circumspect and may demand clearer and more convincing proof of the same and 
of its basic allegations where the successful candidate was returned by a large 
majority of votes . We do not think that the elected or the returned candidate 
is entitled to any greater advantage by reason of his election , be it by a comfort 
able margin or even if the election will have to be set aside or declared void , if 
any fatal or material disqualification or defect is made out. Substantially speak 
ing that was also the view of the Supreme Court in Jagannath s case [ vide A . I. R . 
1954 , S . C . 210 at p . 212 para . 7 ( second part ) ) . Notwithstanding , therefore the 
fact that Roy was returned with a comfortable majority , we have to examine 
though very carefully , because of his said comfortable margin , the disqualifca 
tion , from which he ( Roy ) was alleged to suffer at the material time. 


As noted above, the election has been impeached on the ground that, on the 
date of the election , Roy was disqualified to be chosen to All the seat or for being 
a member of the House of People (Lok Sabha ) and the disqualification alleged 
is that at the material date and at the material times. Roy had an interest or 
share in the business , carried on under the name and style of Indo German Trade 
Centre, which entered into the above contract or contracts with the Government 
of India for supply of automatic vote recording system (equipment ) to the Lok 
Sabha or the House of the People and to the Council of State or the Rajya Sabha 
which contract or contracts were subsisting at the sald materials date namely , the 
date of the election , That , indeed , as we have said above was the substance of 
the allegations in Paragraph 8B of the election petition which is the only material 
paragraph for our present purpose. the other allegations of corrupt practices etc , 
having been expressly given up by the petitioners in short, therefore, Ray s 
clection was sought to he set aside or declared void under Sec . 100 ( 1 ) ( a ) read 
with Section 7 ( d ) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 ſand Act 102 ( 1 ) ( el 
of the Constitution in the light of Section 67A of the said Act. That was the 
real issue , on which the parties fought before the Tribunal, and there was not 


- - 


Sec. 9 (il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . FEBRUARY 28 , 1959 /PHALGUNA 9, 1880 487 
-- - - 

- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - 
the slightest doubt or misgiving on the point in the mind of either and our 
present task is to find out how that issue should be answered . 

Before we take up the above crucial question on the merits we have to make 
some further preliminary observations. We have held above that the Indo 
German Trade Centre entered into the aforesaid contract or contracts with the 
Central , Government and that the same was or were subsisting on the material 
date , that is , the date of election . The point, therefore , that prima facie remains 
for consideration is whether Roy had , by himself or by any person or body of 
persons in trust for him or for his benefit or on his account at the material date 
referred to hereinbefore namely , March 20 , 1957 , any share or interest in the 
aforesaid contract ( which were undeniably contracts for supply for goods to or 
for the execution of works undertaken by the Central Government - - the appropri 
ate Government for purposes of section 7 ( d ) ( vide Section 9 ( a ) in regard to a 
parliamentary election ] within the meaning of the said Section 7 ( d ) . This has 
been attempted to be proved by the petitionery by alleging and seeking to 
establish that Roy was the proprietor of the said business concern Indo -German 
Trade Centre or at any event, at all material times or at the material date , had 
a share or interest therein and thus a corresponding share or interest in its afore 
said contracts within the meaning of Section 7 ( d ) so as to come within the mis 
chief of the said section . The appellants before us who were the respondents 
before the Tribunal deny the above allegation of the petitioners and they further 
contend that even if the petitioners succeeded in establishing that Roy was the 
proprietor of Indo -German Trade Centre or had a share or interest therein and , 
necessarily , therefore, in its aforesaid contracts with the Government of India , 
that would not be sufficient to disqualify him under the above section or sections 
or provisions of law , referred to hereinbefore unless it was further proved that 
the said firm had some financial or pecuniary interest in or under its aforesaid 
contracts . As prima facie the contracts in question disclosed such interest, the 
appellants had to prove the contrary and this they endeavoured to prove by 
attempting to lead evidence that , in the matter of the said contracts , the Indo 
German Trade Centre was a mere Contract agent of a German firm Telefonbau 
Und Mormalzeit G . M . B . H . which was the real tenderer or contracting party and 
that it ( the Indo -German Trade Centre ) had , no financial or pecuniary interest 
in the deal. This was not specifically raised or pleaded in the appellant s writ 
ten statements nor does it appears that they offered or intended to adduce any 
evidence on the point ( beyond what is on record ) except by an attempt cross 
examination of P . W . 10 . K , G . Ghosh . The cross examination however was not 
allowed by the Tribunal and , because of that a grievance has been made before 
us. We do not think , however , that there is any substance in that grievance in 
the facts of this particular case. It is fairly clear from what we have stated 
above that apart from the disallowed cross examination and other relevant evid 
ence on the point (which the parties cared or intended or chose to produce ) is 
on the record . It is clear also that in view of the said evidence and the nature 
of the particular question or questions which were sought to be raiscd by the 
appellants in the present case , the cross examination of P . W . 10 K . G . Ghosh 
would not have improved their ( the appellant s ) position . There was also some 
justification for disallowance of the above cross examination in view of the 
absence of the relevant allegations — to wit specific allegations on the point in 
the appellants written statements. In any event, we are perfectly satisfied , upon 
the facts before us, that no prejudice was actually caused to the appellants by 
such disallowance as aforesaid and they have no sufficient cause for any material 
grievence on the point. 

With the above preliminary observations we proceed to consider the question 
of Roy s alleged statutory disqualification on the merits . That involves mainly 
construction of section 7 ( d ) of the Representation of the People Act , 1951, and 
its application to the facts of this case . The question of construction in its turn 
mainly depends upon the meaning to be given to the words " share or interest" 
used in the section Prime facie the words are wide and having regard to the 
purpose of the section and the mischief it is intended — and seeks to prevent 
we would have been glad to take the words in the widest import. For our pre 
sent purpose however , it will not be necessary to go so far as , even on the res 
tricted meaning, which at least the words should bear on the decided authorities , 
this appeal upon the facts before us, should fall and Roy should be held to be 
sufficiently disqualified within the mischief of the relevant sections or sections 
or statutory provisions so as to lost his present seat in the House of the People 
and this election petition should succeed . 

Provisions like section 7 ( d ) have been a familiar feature of election laws 
from very early times. They are based on a sound , solemn and salutary princi 
ple which democracies or democratic constitutions can ill afford to spare or 


1 .188 IIIE GAZE ITE OF INDIA ; FEBRUARY 28 , 1959 / PIIALGUNA 9 , 1880 PART II 
- - - - - - - -- - - 

- - - - - - - - - - 
ignore, Thair purpose is to guarantee the purity of the legislature and of the 
naministraliye niachinery as well ana 16 has been variously put by various eminent 
juages and noted authorities but always with an eye w we rantee of purity 
of the legislature ana auministration and to keep the source or the fountain 
head of law and the stream of admnistration unsullied and free from corrup 
tion . The basic standpoint is " to prevent contlict between interest and duty 
which woula otherwise inevitably arise ( per Lindlay L . J . in Nortton Vs. Wilson 
( 1889 ) 22 . Q . B . D . 744 at p . 748 ) and to prevent the member concerned from being 
exposed to temptation or even the semblance of temptation (per Lord Grabam 
M . K . in the same case Nortton Vs. Wuson ( 1889 ) 22 . Q . B . D . 744 at p . 747 ) and 
that has never been questioned . It has also been authortatively laid down 
that" a concealed interest is as much as interest as an open interest , and the 
court in such matters will always look at the substance and not at the colour 
able exterior (Per Mc. Cardic J . in Evereth V . Grifiths ( 1924 ) 1 . k . B . 941 at 
P . 947 ) . It has been ruled further that no device to conceal the real nature 
of the transaction would prevail (per Lord Loveturn LC . in North V . Taylor 
(1900 ) A . C . 378 at P . 380 ) . In that context , the word Interest in section ( d ) 
may well receive a wide connotation and may well include even more than 
material interest but, for reasons which it is not necessary to examine now , deci 
$ 1001s navę restricted it to pecuniary or at the most material interest and that , 
as well shall presently see , being sufficient for our present purpose , any further 
discussion on the point of construction is unnecessary. 

As we have said above , the petitioners material allegations for purposes or 
section 7 ( d ) are of a two fold character, namely that at all material times and 
at the material dale , Roy was the proprietor oľ the concern Indo -German Trade 
Centre of at any event had share of interest therein and in its aforesaid con 
tracts within the meaning of the said section so as to fall within its mischief . 
To prove their case , the petitioners relied in particular on the evidence of P .Ws. 
1 , 9 and 10 and upon Exts . 3 . series 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 16 , 19 ( 4 ) , 21, 23, 23 ( 1 ) and 27 . 
The appellants who were the contesting regpondents at different stages of the 
proceedings before the Tribunal did not adduce any oral evidence but cross 
examined the petitioners witnesses . They also produced certain documents . 
It is significant however, to note that notwithstanding the very serious allega 
tions against him and the fact that his election was in Jeopardy , Roy did not 
care to examine himself nor was he summoned or produced on behalf of the 
other appellants , and as a matter of fact, no attempt was made in that behalf 
to deny the petitioners above allegations. Significantly also Shri B . K . Mukherjee , 
who was admittedly Roy s brother in law and who according to Roy and the 
other appellants , was the sole proprietor of the above concern was not examined 
by the appellants , and no attempt also was made by them in that behalf and 
there is no explanation either before the court for the non -examination of Roy 
and or Mukherjee or the absence of any attempt on the appellants part for their 
production in court and examination . Roy and Mukherjee were undoubtedly 
two of the most competent witnesses on the above controversy between the par 
ties and there can be no question also that they would have been available to 
the appellants , if they had so desired . In these circumstances , the burden that 
undoubtedly lles upon the petitioners of proving their above allegations that 
Roy was the proprietor of the concerned Indo German Trade Centre or had 
there or interest therein and in its aforesaid contracts within the meaning of 
section 7 ( d ) at the relevant date is comparatively light and the dice is cast 
heavily against the appellants to prove the contrary and support their dental of 
the same. The initial onus is undoubtedly on the petitioners to make out a case , 
as pleaded by them , but once they succeed in making out such a case prima 
facie and their said task is rendered easier by reason of the above circum 
stances — the appellants have to refute the same to secure a dismissal of the 
instant election petition , 

In the light of what we have said above, the petitioners evidence appears 
to us to be sufficient for proving that Roy had at least a material interest in the 
Arm or alternatively , had a share therein , although . Prima facie at least the 
Central Government. That will be sufficient for disposal of this appeal and it 
will not be strictly necessary to go into their (the petitioner s ) other allegation 
namely that Roy was the proprietor - to wit , the sole proprietor - of the above 
firm or alternatively , had a share therein , although prima facie at least the 
materials on record may appear to contain some indication that Roy had pro 
prietory interest in the said firm either alone or jointly with B . K . Mukherjee 

We may just remind ourselves at this stage that what is required under the 
section (Section 7 ( d ) ) is share or interest in the relevant contract though that 
interest , as we have held above , may well be material as distinguished from 
pecuniary interest , strictly so called . In order , therefore that a person may be 
held disqualified under the above statutory provisions it may be necessary to 


SEC . 8 (ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , 1959 /PHALGUNA 9, 1880 


489 


prove as argued by the appellants not only that he ( the said person ) had a share 
or uter est (material interest) proprietory or otherwise in the firm which had 
or held the particular contract or contracts with the relevant Government but 
also that the said contract or contracts were such as to be capable of conferring 
upon him or to put it a little more elaborately upon the Arm and through it upon 
him - at least a material interest therein . For purposes of this case we need 
not dispute that proposition but we accept it and proceed on that footing . 

That, in the two relevant contracts , constituted by the relative tenders and 
acceptance (vide Exts . 4 : 5 and 6 and Ext. 1 ) Indo -German Trade Centre had a 
pecwmary or at least a material interest is amply proved by the said exhibits , 
read in the light of the correspondence ( Exts , 3 ( 3 ) 3 ( 19 ) and 3 (48 ) and even of 
Ext. A ( 1 ) produced by the appellants themselves ) . It is true that in some of 
the papers (vide eg ., Exts , 4 , 5 , 7 and A ( 1 ) Indo German Trade Centre is des 
culpea as the concract firm for the manuracturer tengerer Teleronbau and Nor 
maizeit g .m .b . It is true also that some of the letters , Exts . F and A ( l ) in 
particular deny that they ( Indo -German Trade Centre ) would have any profit 
out of the above two transactions. But taking the whole of the above docu 
mentary evidence in its entirely and reading it as a whole we have little doubt 
that the said firm had a pecuniary or at least a ( sufficient) material interest in 
the above two contracts . It is well established now ( vide England V . Inglis 
( 1920 ) 2 . K . B , 638 and Evcreet v . Griflius ( 1924 ) 1 , K . B . 941 at pp . 948 that 
interest in the above context does not necessarily postulate a pecuniary advan 
tage or the possibility thereof and it may as well include pecuniary loss or dis 
advantage and corresponding possibility . If then · Indo -German Trade Centre 
was, as we have held above, the contracting party for purposes of the aforesaid 
contracts , so far as the Central Government was concerned , it must be held to 
have had a material interest therein as it would have been liable for any defect , 
irregularity or default in the matter of their performance, and therefore, had at 
least the possibility of a pecuniary disadvantage thereunder . Even if they were 
mere contract agents for purposes of the above two contracts they had the risk 
of losing their reputation as good or efficient contract agents and that would 
have affected their business in case of delay and or dificulty in the matter of 
payment and , as a matter of fact , such delay and difficulty has actually arisen 
In this case (vide Exts . 3 ( 48 ) , 3 (42 ) , 8 ( 29 ) , 8 ( 30 ) and 8 ( 36 ) . It appears also 
that the Indo -German Trade Centre was actually out of pocket to a considerable 
extent in connection with the for the purpose of the above contracts ( Vide Ex . 
3 ( 30 ) , 3 ( 19 ) and 3 ( 48 ) ) . In these circumstances we are of the opinion that they 
had sufficient interest to wit sufficient material interest - within the meaning of 
the section at least in the shape of material loss or disadvantage or possibility 
thereof. The initial requirement under the section as contended for on behalf of 
the appellants is thus amply satisfied in this case . 

Turning to the question of Roy s interest in the firm we may refer at once 
to Ext . 19 ( 4 ) which appears to be a letter over Roy s signature. That it bears 
Roy s signature has not been denied or disputed before us . In fact, that signa 
ture has been admitted on behalf of the appellants . What is contended , how 
ever , is that the letter ( Ext. 19 ( 4 ) ) is not Roy s as Roy , according to the appel 
lant had signed the letter in blank . This is merely a suggestion and in the 
absence of Roy who could have himself deposed and appeared in the witness box 
and who could easily have been examined by the other appellants too , if he or 
they were so minded , and who certainly could have explained it, if he had so 
desired and if it was capable of explanation , we are not inclined to accept the 
above suggestion . Our attention has no doubt been drawn to Roy s passport 
(Ext. L ) which is said to prove that Roy was away from India from August 24 , 
1952 to October , 26 , 1952 whereas the letter (Ext. 19 (4 ) ) bears that the date 
October , 23 , 1952 , thus lending apparent support to the petitioners above sug 
gestion but we are not convinced . We have grave doubts as to whether the 
passport (Ext. L ) can be regarded as a public document and whether it has been 
rightly admitted into evidence in the absence of examination of the official who 
made the relevant entries which again are not very explicit or clear or very 
intelligible . But even accepting the passport entries and conceding that Roy 
was away from India from August , 24, 1952 to October 26 , 1952 as appearing 
therein , it is not improbable that the letter might have been kept ready for Roy s 
signature with the date (23rd October, 1952 ) as typed on it, in view of this im 
pending arrival and might have actually been signed and despatched after the 
26th . The pencil entry ( 28 / 10 ) on the letter again may well be the date of 
receipt by the addressee which will support the above view . But in any event. 
the passport entries are not sufficient by themselves , to show that the letter 
( Ext . 19 ( 4 ) ) must have been signed in blank and in our opinion the vague sug 
gestion to Ghosh ( P . W . 10 ) In cross examination (to which of course , his answer 
was not very satisfactory or a clear denial that Roy might have left signed blank 


490 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , 1959 / PHALGUNA 9, 1880 [PART II 
- - - - 

- - - - - -- - 

- 
papers with him does not necessarily or materially alter the position in the parti 
cular facts of this case , Roy not having deposed to explain the true position . We 
are also of the view that the letter [Ext. 19 ( 4 ) ] having regard to its pharaseology - - 
and the words our business are significant in that respect, is sullicient indica 
tion of Roy s interest to wit, material interest, in and of his intiinale connection 
with , the business Indo German Trade Centre . The letter again bears the letter 
head or inscription Indo German Trade Centre , 28 , Stephen House , Dalhousie 
Square East, Calcutta - i and it is admittedly a letter paper of the said concern 
and , in the absence of any explanation or denial from Roy in the witness Box , 
it may safely be taken that our business had reference to the said concern . 
Even if the particular letter paper had been signed in blank like other similar 
letters of papers and the body of the letter [ Ext . 19 (4 ) ] had been manufactured 
thereon as sugeested by the appellants it is difficult to dismiss it from considera 
tion as it is inadmissible that Roy would have so signed it , had he not been inti 
mately connected with the concern Indo German Trade Centre either as pro 
prietor or having a share or interest to wit, material interest — therein . This 
letter ( Ext. 19 ( 4 ) ] is therefore a very significant document and is sufficient in 
our opinion , in the facts of this particular case and in the contest of Roy s ab 
sence from the evidence above to prove Roy s material interest in the concern 
Indo German Trade Centre and so in the two contracts under consideration . 

The cheque Ext. 18 , again along with the Bank papers Exts. 23, 23 ( 1 ) and 29 
also support the above position . They show and that is not disputed that on 
or about 20th October 1955 appellant Biren Roy received a sum of Rs. 1190 / 
from Indo German Trade Centre . P . W . 10 K . C . Ghosh has deposed that the 
above payment was made to Roy as proprietor of Indo German Trade Centre on 
account of the profits of the said concern but even if we do not accept the said 
statement, the payment at least shows that Roy had some financial connection 
with the said firm . Roy has not deposed to explain the above payment and the 
only attempt that has been made by the appellants in that behalf is the produc 
tion of the audited balance sheet of the firm of an carlier year namely 1954 and 
to argue therefrom that Roy was a mere to wit an ordinary creditor of the firm 
and had a loan account, as shown in the said balance sheet , presumably as such 
creditor . We are , however , wholly unconvinced by that argument and attempted 
explanation on the part of the appellants particularly in the absence of Roy and 
also of B . K . Mukherjee from the witness box , and the paper ( Ext. E ) produced 
by the appellants for the above purpose , is in our opinion , wholly insufficient 
to support the said explanation . Indeed , it seems to us that had the appcllant s 
said explanation been true, other and much better materials could and would 
have been produced by them . In this context and in the present state of the 
record , we are inclined to think that Roy had sufficient financial interest in the 
Arm no business of Indo German Trade Centre and was at least the financier , il 
not the proprietor of the said Arm namcly Indo German Trade Centre, and that 
would certainly give him a material interest in the said Arm and in its aforesald 
contracts , sufficient to bring him within the mischief of section 7 ( d ) . 

It appears further from the compromise decree ( Ext . 21) that Roy was the 
tenant in occupation of Room No . 28 , Stephen House (where the Indo German 
Trade Centre had its office ) up to 1955 and undertook the liability for rent up to 
March 1955 and also for damages for use and occupation for April and May of 
that year. It appears also from the balance sheet, Ext. E that the Indo German 
Trade Centre was not paying the rent, the appellants not having contended that 
the said firm s Hability under the loan account of Roy was for rent of its said 
business premises . It follows, therefore , that Roy was paying the rent etc . for 
the Indo German Trade Centre s business premises and he was therefore, at least 
materially interested in its contract or contracts even if he was not its proprietor 
nor had any share or other pecuniary or financial interest therein - -within the 
meaning of section 7 ( d ) [ vide in this connection ( 1920 ) 2 , K . B .636 ) . 


In the above context the letter ( Ext. 3 ) also may be read to support above 
conclusion . We are just incidentally referring to the said letter as even without 
that, the conclusion in view of our foregoing discussion would be the same. In 
that view , it is not strictly necessary to consider the question of privilege raised 
in connection with the said letter ( Ext. 3 ) but as the said question has been fully 
argued before us, we proceed to express briefly our views on the same. Privilege 
has been claimed by the head of the department which had produced the letter 
on subpoena from the Tribunal, The claim has been made by a purported 
afidavit which , however, is not properly sworn . That defect, however, may be 
ignored as It has been by the Tribunal . The answer depends on three sections 
of the Evidence Act, namely , sections 123 , 124 , and 162 to quote all the relevant 
provisions on the point. So far as the present case is concerned , the decision 
would really turn on the answer to the question as to who is the proper authority 


491 


Sec . 8 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , 1959 /PHALGUNA 9, 1880 
- - - - - - - - - - - 
lor deciding whether a particular document relates to affairs or matters of State 
so as to justiſy o establish a calm of privilege . The question of privilege has 
been considered by the Privy Council ( vide Hentry Gour Robinson v . The State 
of South Austrjalia 35 C . W . N . 1121) and also by the House of Lords (vide Duncan 
and another v . Cammell Laird & Co . Ltd , 1942 A . C . 624 ) and by this court too 
in Ijjetali Talukdar v . Empress 47 C . W . N , 928 . As the law on the point has been 
codified in this country in the sections, quoted above, we would prefer to go by 
the terms of the said sections and , on the construction of the said terms, we 
respectfully agree with this court s view , as expressed in the cited authority 
(47 C . W .N . 928 ) . We do not deem it necessary to refer to the other decisions on 
the point, e . g . Bhaiya Saheb Dajibabhan Kumbi, V . Pandit Ramnath Rampratap 
A . I . R . 1938 Nag . 358 , Khawja Nazir Ahmad V . Emperor AIR 1944 Lah . 434 and 
Governor General in Council v . H . Peer Mohd, Khoda Bux and others A . I. R . 1950 . 
E . P . 228 and as to the case of Iiwin v . Reid repo . ted in I. L . R . 48 Cal. 304 which 
appears to support the contrary opinion it is enough to say that even on principle 
on which correctly speaking it purports to procced it is inconsistent with the 
Privy Council s exposition of the same in Robinson s case ( 35 C . W . N . 1121) which 
is better suited to conditions in this country than the other exposition as given 
by the House of Lords ( vide Duncan and another v . Cammal Laird and Co. Ltd . 

1942 A . C . 624 ) . As a matter of fact also Irwin s case has been held to require 
modification (vide 47 C . W . N . at P . 934 ) . In the above view of the law , we agree 
with the Tribunal in overruling the Claim of privilege in respect of Ext. 3 , in 
the light of the events which happened before the tribunal and which have been 
recorded by it in its order No . 34 dispensing with the necessary of other evidence 
under sec . 162 of the Indian Evidence Act, 


We have so long studiously avoided placing any reliance on the evidence of 
either P . W . 9 or P . W : 10 who seck to make out that Roy was the proprietor of 
the Indo German Trade Centre as in our opinion these witnesses do not appear 
to be wholly disinterested at any rate they do not seem to be quite sale or 
dependable witnesses . It may be argued , however , that at least the evidence of 
these two witnesses , where it is supported or corroborated by circumstances or 
other evidence , may well be accepted and that their statements to the above 
effect receive such support or corroboration from the exhibits to which reference 
has been made by us, and cven the relcase or disclaimer ( Ext. G ) which 
apparently suggests the contrary may be explained away by reference to and 
in the light of Ext. 27 and the attending circumstances and that Ext. 3 ( 10 ) was 
a necessary corollary to Ext . C and does not really alrect or alter that position . 
That may well be a plausible argument, particularly when Roy and Mukherjee 
who could and should have been examined by the appellants to contradict the 
said statements and explain the true position if it was otherwise , were not 
examined and did not take the oaths on the witness box . We do not however , 
deem it necessary to examine it or express any opinion on this extreme argument 
of the petitioners respondents as on our Anding already made , that Roy had at 
least a matcrial interest in the aforesaid concern - - and so in its aforesaid two 
contracts even though he may not be its proprietor, section 100 ( 1 ) ( a ) read with 
section 7 ( d ) and section 67A after representation of the people Act , 1951 and 
Art . 102 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the constitution would invalidate his present election and the 
instant election petition would succeed on the ground of his said disqualification 
under the statute . 


One word before we conclude the above part of the case. We have freely 
confess drawn adverse inference against the appellants for non - examination of 
Roy and Mukherjce and for non production of some documents (which might 
and ought to have been produced by them ) and for the absence of any attempt 
on their part in that behalf. This was one by us notwithstanding the fact that 
the Tribunal chose not to do so , being of the opinion that it was unnecessary . 
We think however that what we have done is amply justifed in the circumstances 
of this case by the authority of the Privy Council (vide Murugesam Pillia 
V . Manickavasaka Pandarn and others 44 , I. A . 98 of 103 Gurbakash Singh 
V . Gurdial Singh and another 32 . C . W . N , 119 at p . 124 and Mussammat Lal Kunwar 
V . Chiranji Lal 37 I. A , 1 at pp . 4 - 5 ) . We may add further that the case of Bilas 
Kunwar 0 . Desraj Ranjit Singh 42 I. A . 202 at 206 - 207 docs not also stand in our 
way as the relevant circumstances there were entirely different and the relative 
observations were made in a wholly different contest . 


A small point was also argued before us on behalf of the appellants touching 
the maintainability of the instant election petition on the allegation that it was 
not presented by a duly authorised person as required by the statute. The 
petitioners by Sri Ashoke Krishna Dutta , The statute requires authority in 
writing for such presentation [ vide section 81 ( 2 ) ( ii ) of the Representation of the 


492 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28, 1959 /PHALGUNA 9 , 1880 [PART II 


- 


People Act, 1951 ] and there is no such direct authority on the present record . 
Accordingly the point is taken that the petition was not duly presented . The 
petition however , bears an endorsement of the Secretary , Election Commission 
as to due authority of Sri Dutt and due presentation and in the absence of an 
issue on the point to which the Appellants never objected in time and for which 
they are as much responsible as anybody also in view of what is recorded in 
Tribunal s order No . 14 and which presumably explains the lack or paucity and 
absence of direct evidence on the point particularly the full records of the Election 
Committee we think the presumption , arising from the above official endorsement, 
should be held sufficient to repel the appellants above argument. 

Lastly we would refer to the present respondents preliminary objection taken 
to Roy s appeal on the ground that he, having retired from the contest and having 
Intimated to the Tribunal that he would not oppose the election petition , had 
no locus standı to file or maintain the above appeal. We do not think however 
that that objection is at all material or need be considered in view of the other 
two appeals which seek the same relief and to which no such objection can be 
taken and as further the appeals on our findings made above would fail on the 
merits, 

In the result then we overrule the appellants contentions and dismiss these 
appeals and upheld the Tribunals order , declaring the instant election of Sri Biren 
Roy to be void under the law , 

As to costs however we would take a different view from the Tribunal, As 
It is fairly clear from the records before us that the petitioners in this election 
petition have been set up by the defeated candidate Sri Ashim Krishna Dutt and 
as a large mass of unreliable oral evidence has been introduced in the case by the 
petitioners, we do not allow them any costs either here or in the Tribunal below 
notwithstanding the circumstances, pointed out by the Tribunal in support of its 
award for costs in their ( the petitioners ) favour and we set aside the Tribunal s 
said order for costs, directing that each party would bear his or their own costs 
throughout and , subject as above , the appeals are dismissed . 

Let a copy of this order be sent to the Election Commission New Delhi, as 
quickly as possible . 
Sarkar J. 


I agree . 


True Copy. 
( Sd .) Assistant Registrar. 


[No . 82 / 439 / 57 / 3367 .] 

By Order 
DIN DAYAL , Under Secy 


MINISTRY OF LAW 
( Department of Legal Affairs ) 
New Delhi, the 21st February 1959 


S . O . 443 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of article 299 
of the Constitution and in supersession of the Notifcation of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Law No. S . O . 2064 dated the 4th October , 1958, the 
President hereby directs that agreements relating to the safe custody of cycles 
in the cycles shed in the compound of the office of the Accounts Officer, Telephone 
Revenue (North ), Delhi, shall be exccuted on his behall by the Accounts Officer , 
Telephone Revenue (North ), Delhi. 


[No. F .44 (11) / 88 - J. ) 
P . K , BOSE , Dy. Secy 


SEC . $ (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28, 1959 / PHALGUNA 9, 1880 493 
- - = 

= 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expendlture ) 

New Delhi, the 13th February 1959 
S . O . 444 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause (5 ) of article 148 of the Constitution , the President, after consulta 
tion with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India in respect of persons ser 
ving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, hereby directs that the fol 
lowing further amendment shall be made in the General Provident Fund (Central 
Services ) Rules, namely : 
In the Arst schedule to the said rules in the heading in the last column of 

the forms of nomination , the words " or on the happening of the 
contingency or contingencies specified in the previous column " shall 
be omitted and shall be deemed always to have been omitted . 

[No. F ,40 ( 3 ) - E . V ./ 59.) 
· New Delhi, the 14th February 1959 
S . O . 445 . -— In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause ( 5 ) of article 148 of the Constitution , the President, after consulta 
tion with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India in respect of persons 
serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, hereby directs that the 
following further amendment shall be made in the Contributory Provident Fund 
Rules ( India ) namely — 
In the first schedule to the said rules in the heading in the last column 

of the forms of nomination , the words " or on the happening of the 
contingency or contingencles specified in the previous column" shall 
be omitted and shall be deemed always to have been omitted , 

[ No. 1 . 40 (3)-E .V./ 59.] 
D . D . BHATIA , Dy . Secy . 


494 


( Lepartment of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhs , the 18th February 1959 
1 . 0 .446 . – Starentat of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , as on the 13th Februas y 1949 . 

BANKING DEPARTIENT 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


Liabilities 


RS. 


Assets 


Rs. 


5 , 00 ,00 , 000 
80 ,00 ,00 ,000 


Capital paid up . . . . . 
Reserve Fund . 
National Agric . tural Credit (Long -term Ope 

rations) Fund . . . . . 
National Agricultural Credit ( Stabilisarion ) 

Fund , • 


Nores . . 
Rupee Coin . 
Subsidiary Coin 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


10,84 , 16 ,000 

1, 99 ,000 
3 ,28 , 000 


25 , 00 , 00 ,000 


= 


3 , 00 ,00 , 000 


- 


= 


. 


Bius Purchased and Discounted : 
(a ) Loterpal . 

. . . 
(b) External . . . 

(c) Government Treasury Bills . 
Balances held abroad * . 
* * Loans and Advances to Governments 
Other Loans and Advances 
Investments . . . . . 
Other Assets . . . 


Deposiis : 
(a ) Government 

(1) Central Government . 

(2) Other Govermenis . 
(6) Banks . . . . 

(©) Others , . 
Bills Payable . . . 
Other Liabilities . . . 


- 


65 ,81,86 , 000 
21, 98 ,76 ,000 

72 ,43 ,31 ,000 
· 114 ,92,72 , 000 

19 , 30 , 20 ,000 
34 , 73 ,84 ,000 
442,20 ,69 , 000 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:FEBRUARY28,1959/PHALGUNA9,1880[PARTII 


. 
. 


. 
. 


7, 19,53 ,000 
28, 12,46 ,000 
27 ,79,27 ,000 
96 ,81,90 ,000 
259,78,12,000 
11,59,98 .000 


. 


. . 
TOTAL : 


TOTAL . 


442, 20 , 69 ,000 


* Indudes Cash & Short term Securities, 
* * Includes Temporary Overdrafts to State Governments . 

The item Other Loans and Advances includes Rs. 5 , 52 ,51, 000 advanced 10 scheduled benks against urance bills under Section 1764 ) (c ) of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act . 

Dated the 18th day of February 1959 , 


An Accoum pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act , 1934, for the week ended the 13th day of February 1959 


ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


Liabilities 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Assets 


Rs. 


Rs. 


10 ,84, 16 ,000 


Notes held in the Banking De 

partment - - . 
Notes in circulation : : 
Total Notes issued 


117 , 76 ,03,000 


16 ,68, 14 ,26 ,000 


1678 ,98 ,42,000 


A . Gold Coin and Bullion : 

12 ) Held in India . . . 

(6) Held outside India . 
Foreign Securities 

TOTAL OP A . . , , 
B , Rupee Coin . . . . 
Government of India Rupee Securi 


178 ,00 ,89,000 


295,76 ,92 ,000 
131,76 ,49,000 


SEC.3(11))THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:FEBRUARY28,1959/PHALGUNA9.1880 


1251,45,01 ,000 


Inernal Bills of Exchange and other 

commercial paper . . . 


TOTAL - LIABILITIES 


1678 ,98 ,42 , 000 


TOTAL - ASSETS 


, 


. 


. 


1678 ,98 ,42,000 


Dated the 38th day of February , 1959 


(N . F . 3( 2 )- BC / 59.) 
H . V . R . JENGAR , Governor. 


496 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; FEBRUARY 28 , 1989 / PHALGUNA 9 , 1880 [PART II 


P1 


: New Delhi, the 23rd February 1959 


S . O . 447 . - In pursuance of clause ( a ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 19 of the 
State Bank of India Act, 1955 ( 23 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby ap 
points Shri Mangaldas M . Pakvasa of Purnima , 29 , Dongersey Road , Bombay , 
as Vice -Chairman of the State Bank of India for & period of two years with effect 
from the date on which he assumes charge of his oice . 

[No. F . 8 ( 9 ) 59 -SB . ] 
A . BAKSI, Jt . Secy . 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

INCOME- TAX 

| New Delhi, the 23rd February 1959 
S . O . 448 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of Section 5 
of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) , the Central Board of Revenue 
hereby makes the following amendments in the Schedule appended to its Notifca 
tion S .O , 660 No. 35 dated the 22nd April, 1958, namely : 

In the said Schedule under the Sub -head “ LX -Madhya Pradesh and the Dis 
tricts of Nagpur and Bhandara " for the existing entries in columns 1 and 2 the 
following entries shall be substituted, namely : 

Indore 
1, A -Ward , Indore. 
2 . B -Ward , Indore. 
3 . C - Ward , Indore . 
4 . D -Ward , Indore. 
5 . E -Ward , Indore . 
6 . F -Ward, Indore . 
7 . G -Ward , Indore . 
8 . H -Ward , Indore . 
9 . J -Ward , Indore . 
10 . A - Ward , Ratlam . 
11. B -Ward , Ratlam . 
12. A -Ward , Gwalior. 
13 . B -Ward , Gwalior . 
14 , C -Ward, Gwalior . 
15 . A -Ward , Ujjain . 
18 . B -Ward, Ujjain . 
17 . C -Ward, Ujjain . 
18 . A -Ward , Bhopal. 
19. B -Ward , Bhopal, 
20. A -Ward , Khandwa. 
21. Multipurpose Project Circle, Ratlam . 

Nagpur 
1. Special Circle I. 
2 . Special Circle II. 
3 . Special Circle III. 
4 . Special Circle IV . 
5 . A -Ward, Nagpur . 
6 . B -Ward, Nagpur. 
7 , C -Ward , Nagpur. 
8 . D - Ward , Nagpur. 


Sec. 8 (li)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , 1959 / PHALGUNA 9, 1880 


497 


9 . E -Ward, Nagpur. 
10 . F -Ward , Nagpur. 
11. G -Ward , Nagpur. 
12. H -Ward , Nagpur , 
13 . Special Estate Duty - cum - Income-tax Circle, Nagpur . 
14 . Salary Circle, Nagpur . 
15 . Chhindwara . 
16 . Rajnandgaon . 


Jabalpur 


1. A -Ward , Jabalpur . 
2 . B -Ward, Jabalpur . 
3 . C -Ward, Jabalpur. 
4 . Sagar . 
5 . Bilaspur 
6 . Raigarh . 
7 . A -Ward , Satna . 
8 . B -Ward , Satna . 
9 . A -Ward , Ralpur , 
10 . B -Ward , Raipur . 
11. C -Ward , Raipur , 
12. B -Ward, Khandwa. 

Explanatory Note 
NOTE . — The amendments have become necessary on account of the re 
organisation of the Appellate Assistant Commissioners Ranges in the charge ol 
the Commissioner of Income- tax , Madhya Pradesh and the Districts of Nagpur 
and Bhandara . . 


( This note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be merely 
clarificatory ) . 

[No. 25 ( F , No. 50 / 28 / 58 - IT ). ) 


S . O . 449.- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (4 ) of Section 5 
of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) , the Central Board of Revenue 
hereby makes the following further amendments to its notification S . O . 660 No. 85 
Income-tax , dated the 22nd April 1968 , namely : 

In the Schedule appended to the said notification under the Sub -head " XV 
West Bengal" : 
( a ) against " A " Range , Calcutta : the existing entry " 2. District III ( 1) , 

Calcutta " shall be deleted and the subsequent entry " Z " shall be 

renumbered as " 2" ; 
( b ) for the words " K " Range , Assansol and " L " Range , Jalpaiguri appearing 

in col. 1 of the said notification the following words shall be substi 

tuted namely : 
K Range, Calcutta ; 

L Range , Calcutta ; 
( c ) against K Range Calcutta , after the existing entry " 5 Agsansol" the 

following entries shall be added : 
“ 6 . District III ( I) , Calcutta ; 

7. Special Survey Circle IV , Calcutta ." 
( d ) against L Range, Calcutta : after the existing entry " 4 - Siliguri" , the 

following entries shall be added , namely : 
" 5 . District VI, Calcutta ; 
6 . Special Survey Circle VIII, Calcutta ; 
7. Special Survey Circle IX , Calcutta;" 


498 


1 - 


2 


= 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; FEBRUARY 28, 1959 /PHALGUNA 9 , 1880 (PART II 
= - = = - - - 

S S 

- - - - --- 
( e ) against M Range, Calcutta ; the following entries shall be deleted : 
" 5 . District VI, Calcutta ; 
6 . Special Survey Circle VIII, Calcutta ; 
7. Special Survey Circle IV , Calcutta ; 
8 . Special Survey Circle IX , Calcutta ." 

Explanatory Note 
NOTE . — The amendments have become necessary on account of the reorganisa 
tion of the Appellate Assistant Commissioners Ranges in the charge of Com 
missioner of Income- tax , West Bengal. 

( This note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be 
merely clarificatory ) . 

[No. 26 ( F . No. 50/ 32 / 58 - IT ). ] 
$ .0 450 , — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 5 
of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922 ) . and in partial modification of all 
previous notifications on the subject, the Central Board of Revenue hereby dirccts 
that with effect from 16th February 1959 (forenoon ) , Shri P . C . Goyal shall per 
form all the functions of Commissioner of Income- tax in respect of such areas or 
of such persons or classes of persons or such incomes or classes ou incomes or 
such cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the Income- tax Circles , Wards 
or Districts in the State of Assam and the Union Territory of Manipur and 
Tripura : 

Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons 
or of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income- tax Authority subordinate to him . 


Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
persons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any income- tax autho 
rity outside his jurisdictional area . 

While performing the said functions the said Shri Goyal shall be designated as 
the Commissioner of Income- tax , Assam , Manipur and Tripura with headquarters 
at Shillong . 

Explanatory Note 
NOTE . - The amendments have become necessary due to the change in the 
incumbent of the Commissioners Charge . 


The above note does not form 
merely clarificatory ) . 


a part of the notification but is intended to be 


(No. 27 (F . No. 55 / 27 /59 -IT ). ] 
B . V . MUNDKUR, Under Secy . 


- - 


. . - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - -- 


-- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


DIVISIONAL OFFICE , CENTRAL EXCISE & CUSTOMS, BOMBAY III DIVN , 


NOTICE 
Bombay , the 16th February 1959 


S . O . 451 , - Whereas it appears that the registered post parcel No . 118 containing 
7 O clock blades was seized from postal authorities at Girgaum post office , Bombay 
by the preventive officers of the Central Excise Department on 14th October , 1958 , 
on a reasonable belief that the goods contained in the parcel were imported 
into India in contravention of Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 and 
Government of India , Ministry of Commerce & Industry Control Order No . 17 / 55 
dated the 7th December 1955 issued under Import & Export Control Act, 1947 
and deemed to have been issued under section 19 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 . 
Show cause notices were issued to Shri S . $ . Palav , the despatcher of the said 
parcel and Shri Anant Sonu Bhobe, the addressee of the narrel but the same were 
received back from Postal authorities under remarks " Not Known " . 


nder sectis . Pala the morein 


$ £C. (ii)] TIJE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28, 1959 / PHALGUNA 9 , 1880 499 

= - = - = - = 
Now , therefore , Shri S . S . Palay and Shri A . S . Bhobe, claiming the goods are 
hereby called upon to show cause to the undersigned why the said goods should 
not be confiscated under section 7 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the Land Customs Act. 1924 read 
with Section 167 ( 8 ) of Sea Custom Act. 1878 and why a penalty should not be 
imposed under Section 7 ( i ) ( C ) of Land Custom Act , 1924 read with Section 
167 ( 3 ) and / or 167 ( 8 ) of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 . 

If Shri S . S . Palav and Shri A , S . Bhobe fail to turn up to claim ownership 
of the goods or to show cause against the action proposed to be taken within 30 
days from the date of publication of this notice in the Government of India 
Gazeite / Bombay State Government Gazette , the goods in question will be treat 
ed as unclaimed and the casc will he decided accordingly . 

INo. VIII /25 -104 / 58 / Prv.Cus. ) 
R . N . SHUKLA , I.R .S ., Asstt. Collector . 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF STEEL , MINES AND FUEL 
(Deptt. of Mines & Fuel ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 20th February 1959 
S . O . 452 .-- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Essential 
Commodities Act , 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that 
the powers conferred on it by section 3 of the said Act to make orders under 
olauses ( c ) , ( e ) , ( f ), ( h ) and " ( j) of sub - section ( 2 ) of that section shall, in 
relation to Kerosine Oil, be exercisable also by the State Government of Orissa . 

[No. 104 ( 13 ) / 59 -PPD . ) 
S . K . MUKHERJEE , Dy. Secy . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

Bombay , the 13th February , 1959 
S . O . 453. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub - clause ( 1 ) of 
clause 3 of the Cotton Control Order , 1955 , I hereby direct that the following 
further amendment shall be made in the Textile Commissioner s Notification No. 
S . Q . 2076 dated 27th August, 1958 , namely : 
In the said Notification , in clauses ( a ) and (b ) of sub - paragraph (8 ) of 

paragraph 2 , after the words " Rajapalayam cotton " the words, letters 
and Agure " M . A . 5 cotton " shall be inserted . 

D . S. JOSHI Textile Commissioner . 


[No. F .24 ( 44 ) Tex ( A ) /57. ] 
V . V . NENE, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 19th February 1959 
S . O . 454 /RLIUN / 18 / 1. - In pursuance of rule 18 of the Registration and 
Licensing of Industrial Undertakings Rules, 1952 , and in supersession of the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Heavy Industries 
No, S . R . O . 141, dated the 10th January , 1957, the Central Advisory Council of 
Industries hereby constitutes the Sub - Committee consisting of the following mem 
bers , namely : 

1 . Pt. Hirday Nath Kunzru , M . P .-- Chairman . 
2. Shri A . Ramaswami Mudaliar, M . P . 
3 . Shri Mangtu Ram Jaipuria . 
4. Shri Bagaram Tulpule. 


F00 


- - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , 1959 / PIIALGUNA 9 . 1880 [ Part M 

-- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - - = - - = = 
5 . Shri N . D . Sahukar. 
6 . Shri B , C . Ghosc , M . P . 
7 . Mr, J. D . K . Brown. 

8 . Shri B . P . Singh Roy . 
2. The functions of the Sub -Commitice will be lo review all livelices issued , 
refused , varied , amerided or revoked from time to timing and to advise Government 
on the general principles to be followed in the issue of licences for establishing 
new undertakings or substantial expansion of the existing undertakings . 

3. The Secretary of the Central Advisory Council of Industries will be the . 
Secretary of the Sub - Committee. 

[ No 3 ( 1 ) IA ( II ) ( G ) /59. ] 
K . C . MADAPPA , Dy. Secy . . 


RUBBER CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 20th February 1959 
S . O . 455 . - On the relinquishment of the charge of the oflice of Chairman , 
Rubber Board , Kottayam , hy Sliri N . Sankara Menon , I. A . S ., on 21st February , 
1959, the Rubber Production Commissioner shall attend to the current duties of 
the Chairman , until further orders. 

[No. 21 ( 7 ) Plant( B ) /57.] 
A . J. KIDWAI, Dy . Secy . 


New Delhi, the 23rd Februct) , 1959 
S . O . 456 . – Shri A . K . Sen , a permanent Officer of Grade I of the Central 
Secretariat Service , now employed as Secretary , Tea Board , is granted earned 
Icave for a period of 13 days i rum 29th December , 1958 to 10th January , 1959 with 
permission to prefix and suffix Sundays on 28th December , 1458 and i1th January , 
1959 respectively . 

[ No . 1 ( 9 )Plant( A ) / 59. ) 
P . V . RAMASWAMY, Under Secy , 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 19th February 1959 
S . O . 457 / IDRA / 6 / 15 / Am ( 2 ) . In exercise of the powers conferred hy section 6 , 
of the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 read with the Develop 
ment Councils ( Procedural ) Rules, 1952 , the Central Government hereby appoints 
Mr. B . H . Trenear - Thomas to be a member of the Development Council for the 
scheduled industry engaged in the manufacture or production of alcchol and 
other products of fermentation industries and make the following amendment 
in the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry Order No. S . R . O . 1904 / IDRA / 6 / 15 , dated the 16th September , 1958 , 
namely : 
In the said Order , under the category of persons who in the opin .on of tho 

Central Government are capable of representing the interests of 
consumer s of goods manufactured or produced by the said scheduled 
industries , for entry No. 11 relating to Shri J . Verghese , the follow 

ing entry shall be substituted , namely : 
" 11 . Mr. B H . Trenear- Thomas, Co - ordination Manager , Burmah -Shell 
Oil Storage & Distributing Co . of India Ltd ., New Delhi," 

[No. 4( 45 )IA ( II )( G )/ 58 . ] 
S . O . 458/ IDRA / 6 / 15 / Am . ( 3 ) ,-- In exercise of the powers conferred by Sec 
lion 6 of the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 ( 65 or 1951) read 
with paragraph 1 ( b ) of the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry 


. 


SEC. (ii )] THEGAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28, 1959 /PHALGUNA 9 , 1880 
G - - _ . - - : 

= = = - = = - = = = - = - = - = 
of Commerce and Industry No. S . O . 1904 IDRA / 6 / 15 , dated the 16th September , 
1958, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Rameshwur Saran Singh , 
General Secretary , U . P . Distillery Workers Federation , Shahanshah Manzil, Gola 
ganj, Lucknow as a member of the Development Council established by the said 
Order for the scheduled industries engaged in the manufacture or production of 
alcohol and other products of fermentation industries and directs that the follow 
ing amendment shall be made in the said Order , namely : 

( 1 ) For item 10 and the entries relating thereto , the following shall be substi 
tuted , namely : 


" being persons who in 
(+ 10 . Shri Ram Singhi Bhai Varina , M . P . Vice Pre 

the opinion of the Con 
sident, Indian Nationrl Trude Union 

1ral Government, arc co 
Congress , Jan Path , New Delhi . 

pable of representing the 
Toa . Shri Raneshwur Sarin Singh , General Secre 

interests of persons 
Lity , U . P . Distillory Workers Federation , 

employed in industrial 
Shahanshalı Manzıl, Baroodkhana , Golaganj, undertakings in the said 
Lucknow . " 

schedule .! industries " . 
( 2 ) Paragraph 1 ( b ) shall be omitted . 

[No. 4 ( 45 ) IA ( II) ( G ) / 58 . ] 
A . K . CHAKRAVARTI, Under Secy . 


( Indian Standards Institution ) 
New Delhi , the forle February , 1959 


$ . O . 459 . - - [ n pursuince al sub - regulations 2 ) and ( 3 ) of regulation 3 of the Irdian Stan 
dards Institucion ( C :rificarion Mark , Regulations, 1955 , the Ir: diui: Stadards Ji.stitucol. lerchy 
totifies that the Indian Standards, particulars of which are given it, the Schedule herero annexed 
have been established during the period . 


THE SCHLDTILE 


- - 


- - 


- 


N ), in title ofile Indian 

Standard cutablished 


Brief Particulars 


No . 


No, and title of the 
Indian Standard of 
Standards, if any, sup - r 
seded by the new Indian 

Standardi 
( 3 ) 


(1) 


( 4 ) 


I. 


IS : 226 - 1958 Specificationi IS : 226 - 1955 Specifi- 
fur Structural Steel Cacion for Structural 
Sicon Revision ). 

Steel (Revised ). 


Tlie revised standard prescribes 
Iquirements for teel sections 
plates and bars (round , square , 
Hal, hexagonal, elc .) of the 
following categorics for use 
in structural work : 


Suel 
Designation 


Purpose forwhich 

interuded 


A In structures subject 

to dynamic loading 
ud other special 
Cases. 
In strucures not 
subject to dynamic 

loading, 
ASW . In structures subject 

10 dynamic loading 
and when special 
welding jobs are 
required . 

( Price Rs. 1 50 ) 


502 


. 


; GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , 1959 / PHALGUNA 9 , 1880 PART II 


- 


( 2 ) 


. . 


2 . IS ; 1224 - 1958 Determi 

This standard prescribes the 
nation of Fat in Whole 

procedure for the determi 
Milk , Evaporated (Un 

nation of fat in whole milk , 
sweetened ) Milk , Sepa 

cvaporated ( unsweetened ,milk , 
rated Milk , Skim Milk , 

separated milk , skim milky, 
Bulter n ilk and Cream 

butter milk and crcun by 
by the Gerber Method . 

Gerber Mythod . 

(Price Rs. 1. 50 ) 
3 . IS : 1278 - 1958 Specification 

This standard prescribes 
for Killer Rods and Wires 

Lolerances, chemical composi 
furGas Welding, 

tion and mechanical pro 
perties of steel rods and 
wires , cast iron rods, copper 
and copper alloy rods and 
wires , nagnesium alloy 
rods and wires , aluminium 
and aluminium alloy rods, 
and nickel and rickel alloy 
rods and wires . 

( Price Rs. 2. 00 ). 
4 . IS : 1280 - 1958 Specification 

This standard specifics dimen 
for Foundry Moulding 

sions and materials of two 
Roxes, 

pin foundry moulding boxca 
ranging in size from 320 X 
320 x 80 mm to 2000 X 
2000 x 500 mm and their 
main components, such as 

pins, plugs and bushes. 
It does not cover special pur 

posc boxes, which may be 
required by jobbing found 
ries ; in their case if necessary , 
use can be mede of the com 
ponents , such as pins , bushes, 
etc. , specified in this stand 
ard . 

(Price Rs. 1 . 50 ). 
Copies of these Indian Standards are available for sale with the Indiun Standards Institution 
Manak Bhavan , 9 - Mathura Road , New Delhi- ) , and also at its Branch Cffices at (1) 40 /40A , 
Cawasji Patel Street, Fort , bombay - 1 , (11) P - II, Mission Ruw Extcrisior , Calcutta - I and (111 ) 
2 / 21 First Line Beach , Madras - 1 . 

[No. MDC 11 (4)). 
S . O . 460 . - In pursuance of regulation 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification. 
Marks ) Regulations, 1955 the Indian Standards Institution herity 1 ot.fies that amordmenis 
to the Indian Standards given in the Schedule herelo anticxcd have been issued under the powers 
conferred by sub - regulation ( 1 ) of regulation 3 of the said regulations. 

THE SCHEDULE 


Date 


S ], No . and title of the No. & date No. & date Brief Particulary of 

of 
No. Indian Standard of Gazette of 

Amendment 

effect of 
AIT ended Notification Amendment 

the Am 
in which 

cndment 
the es 
tablishment 
of the 
Indian 
Standard 
Was noti 

fied 
( 3 ) 

(6 ) 
I . IS : 102 - 1950 Speci - S . R . O . 658 NO. I The surface drying time, Ist March , 

fication for Ready dated 26th March , prescribed in Table I 1959 . 
Mixed Paint , Brush - March , 1959 , (appended to clause 4 - 2 ) 
ing, Red Lead ,Non - 1955. 

item 2 ( a ) of the standard , 
Setting, Priming . 

has been changed from 6 
to 12 hours to 3 to 10 
hours . 


503 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28, 1959 /PHALGUNA 9 , 1880 
- = 

--- = = 
(3 ) (4 ) 

(5 ! 


2 . 


$ ; 281- 1951 Speci - S . R . O . 658 
fication for Sliding dated 26th 
Door Bolts for use March , 
with Padlocks. 

1955 . 


No. I 
February 
1959 . 


Ist March , 

1959. 


( a ) Sub - clauses , 3 . 1. 1 , 

3 . 1 . 1 . 1 3 . 1 .2 , 3 . 2 . 1 , 
3 . 2 . 2 and 3 . 2 . 2 . 1 of the 
standard giving material 
to be used in themanufuc 
ture of sliding bolts have 
becn deleted and substi 
tuted by new sub - clauses. 
(6 ) In clause 4 . 2 , last sen 
tence has been deleted and 
substituted by the follow 
ing : 
" The black plate , the 

straps and the staple 
shall be given a phos 
phate coating and then 
stove onamelled black 

before Adern bly ." 
( c ) After Clause 5 : 1 , a new 

clause 5 . 2 has been added 
giving permiyyiple toler 
unces for the dimensions 
of bolts specified in Table 


3 . 


IS : 362 - 1951 Speci- S . R . O . 658 

fication for Parlia - dated 26th 
Icnt Hinges March , 
( Tentative). 

1955 . 


No. I 
February 
1959 . 


4 , IS : 363 - 1951 Speci - 

fication for Hasps 
and Staples , Safety 
and Wire Types 
( Tentarive ) . 


S . R . O . 658 
dated 26th 
March , 
1955 . 


No. I 
February 
1959 . 


(a ) Clauses /sub - clausce 2 I , Ist Marclı , 
2 . 1. 1 , 2 . 1. 2 , 2 .2 and 2 . 3 1959 . 
of the standard have heen 
deleted and substituted by 
new clauses /sub -clauses. 
( 6 ) After clause 3 . 1 new 
clause 3 . 2 has been added 
giving permissible toler 
ances for the dimensions 
of parliam . cnt hinges speci 
fied in Tuble I. 
(a ) In para 3 of the forc- Ist March , 
word (lines 6 - 8 ) , delete 1959 . 
the sentence " Husps and 
Staples of Superior type 
are not covered by this 
standard " and substituto 
the following : 
" The Sectional Con 

niicccc responsible for 
the preparation of this 
standard also proposes 
to lay down , in due 
course , specifications 
for hasps and staples of 

superior types." 
(6 ) After clause 2 . 2 , a new 
claufc 2 . 3 has been added 
giving permissible coler 
ances for the dimensions 
specified in Tables I & 

II . 
( c) Clausc 3 . 1 , sub - clauses 
3 . 1 . 1 und 3 . 1. 2 , clause 
3 .2 and sub - clauses 3 . 2 . I 
and 3 . 2 . 2 of the standard 
have been deleted 2nd 
replaced by new clausca / 
Suo - clauses. 
( d ) In clause 4 . 1 , the second 
sentence " The hinge pin 
shall be of inild steel in all 
cases " has been de 
leted . 


504 
- - - - - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , 1959/ PHALGUNA 9, 1880 [PART IL 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


. 


(4 ) 


. - 

. - - - - - - - - - - - 
(+ ) Substitutu 3 / 16 for 

1 / 4 in Table i , against 
sizes 6 in .ad 7 ill. under 
dimensiun E . 
W ) Substitute 5 / 10 " for 

- in Tuble II , against 
9120 4 21 . Lider Dimen 
sion F 
( g ) In clause 5 . 1 the cxist 

ing item ( 1 ) has bez do 
leied uild substituted hy 

the following : 
" (1 ) Hasps and Phosphace 
staples , safety coated and 
and wire typu , then Slove 
mild steel. enam :lled 

black . " 
Under Clause 4. 1 , The 1st Morch . 

tulluwii .g rute has been 1959. 
addud : 
" NOT) . - -Manufacturers 

are recommunded to 
subjcct the steel free 
gurgs TV globurizing 
( spheriodizing ) treat 
mint. Tnis facilitates 
unitorin hardness which 
is essential for quality 
razors , and gives them 
a kyun and straight ( dge 
on reputed re - sharpen 
1118 , 


5 . 


S . 888 - 1956 Spuci- 
fication for Hull i 
Grourid Razurs, 
Up 1: Typ 


S . R . O . 2120 Nir, I 
cated 29th Marçli, 
Jure , 1957 . 1959 . 


- 


- - 


- 


Cipies of these am m 1: 1 slips are available , free of cost , with the Indian Standard unti 
tution , Mulak Bhayu . -Mathura Road ,New Colhi- J and also at its Bruch Cffcts at (21 40 / 40A.. 
Ciwa ii Patçi Strest Burt , B . mlay - I, (111 P - u Mission Rull l xton101 , Culcutid - 1 , atst ( 111 ) 
2 /21 First Ling Bach , Madras - l. 

[N ). MDC 11(89 )]. 

C . N . MODAWAL , 
Deputy Director (Marks ), 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

( Department of Agriculture ) 
( Indian Council of Agricultural Research ) 

New Delhi, the 12th February 1959 
$ . O . 461. — In pursuance of the provisions of clause ( c ) of Section 4 of the 
Indian Coconut Committee Act , 1944 ( 10 of 1944 ) the Government of Madras have 
nominated Shri A , R , M , Chakrapani Reddiar , 10 , Kandappa Chetty Strect, 
Madras - 1 , as a member of the Indian Central Coconut Committee for a period of 
one year with effect froir 1st April 1959. 

|No. 8 - 4 / 58 - Com .I. / 


S . O . 462. — Under Section 4 ( x ) of the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923 (XIV of 
1923 ) , the Central Government are pleased to renominate Sardar Ujjal Singh as 
a member of the Indian Central Cotton Committee froin 1st April, 1959, to 31st 
December, 1959. 

[ No. 1- 12 /53- Com . II.) 
AJUDHIA PRASADA , Under Secy . 


Src , 9 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA - FEBRUARY 28 , 1959 / PHALGUNA 9 , 1880 - 505 
- - - = - = - - ----- . - = - - - - - - - = = = = = = 

MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 23rd February 1959 
S .O . 463 .- - In pursuance of Regulation No. 15 of the Dental Council of India 
Regulations for the Examination for qualifying a person registered in Part B 
to register in Part A of the Dentist Register maintained under the Dentists Act , 
1948 ( 16 oC 1948 ) , it is hereby notified that the following candidates passed the 
Examination No. I conducted by the Dental Council of India at the Dental College 
and Hospital, Lucknow , in January , 1959. The Roll Nurnbers of the candidates 
are given in brackets against their names : 

M . A . R . Nathan ( 1 ) . 
P . D . Chaudhry — ( 2 ) . 
Mohinder Singh — ( 4 ) . 
A . L . Amanna ( 5 ), 
Liu Chung Sen > ( 6 ), 
C . M . Bhagat - 17 ) . 
M . F . Ravi — ( 8 ) . 
Narain Swarup ( 9 ) . 
P . N . Gupta - ( 11 ) . 

( S . BRATT, LDSC , FICD ) , 

Serretary , 
Dental Council of India . 


(No, F . 18 -5 /59- M .1. 1 
KRISHNA BIHARI, Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS 


(Departwent of Transporti 

Transport Wing ) 


New Delhi , the 18th Februury 1959 


S . O . 464 - - In cxmycisert the powers conferred by sub - sections ( 11. ( 2 )ud ( 3 of sectiot". 4 of the 
Merchant Shippir g Act , 1958 ( 14 0f 19581, the Central Govers methereby establishes with effect 
from the 1st March , 1959 , a National Shipping Board , and no mii ace : Shri G I . Michra to be the 
Chairman of the Board , with the following members : 


Elected by the House of the People 
1. Shri Raghunath Singh 
2 , Smt. Ila Palchoudhiiri 
3 . Shri Bhawaiji A Khimji 
4 . Shri Purushottundas R . Patel, 


Floral by the Council of Sives 
5 . Shri Alujumala 1 Tenry Samuel 
6 . Shri Anjit Pratap Singh 


Central Government Representanter. 


7. Shri O . Pulla Roddi, I. C . S . 
8 . Shri S . S . Shiralkar 
9 . Shri K . B . Lall, I. C . S . 
10 . Dr. Nagendra Singh , I. C . S . 


506 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : L EBRUARY 28 , 1959/ PHALGUNA 9, 1880 [ PART IL 
S S - - - - - - - = = - = - - = - - = = = = = - = = = 

Representutives of shipeuners 
11. Sm , Sumati Morarjee 
12 . Shri A . RamaswamiMucaliar 
13 . Shri Vikram sinh S . Vallabhadass 

Representatives of Seamcn & Verchanı Nuqiy Officers 
14 . Shri Dinkar Desai 
15 . Shri Bikay Majumdar 
16 . Shiri J. D . Randeri 


OTHER INTERESTS 

Representative of Trade 
17. Shri Babubhai M . Chinai 

Represenative of sailing vessels industry 
18 . Shri Damodar Mathuradas Ashar 

Representative of the shipbuilding industry (Chairman ). 
19. Shri G . L . Mehta 

Member Secrelury: 
20. Shti C . P . Srivastavu , I. A . S . 

(No. 33 M $ (221 )/58 .] 
NAGENDRA SINGII , Jt, Secy . 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, IJOUSING AND SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 14th February 1959 
S . O . 465 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by the Proviso to Article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that the method and field of 
recruitment for the post of Junior Field Officer ( Timber ) in the Directorate of 
Supplies and Disposals , Calcutta and Bombay under the Directorate General of 
Supplies and Disposals specified in the Annexure shall be as shown therein . 

[No. ES . II -49 ( 19 ) / 58. ] 
R . RAJAGOPALAN , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION & POWER 

New Delhi, the 19th February 1959 
S . O . 466 . - In exercise of thc powers conferred by the proviso to sub - rule ( 1 ) 
of rule 45 of the Indian Electricity Rules, 1956 , the Central Government hereby 
exempts any electrical installation work , carried out on the premises of the 
Lignite Mines of Messrs Neyveli Lignite Corporation ( Private ) Ltd ., from so 
much of this sub - rule as requires any such work to be carried out by an electrical 
contractor licensed by the State Government in this behalf, subject to the condl 
tion that every electrical installation work shall be carried out under the direct 
supervision of a person in the employment of the corporation and holding a 
Certificate of Competency issued by the State Government, under sub - rule ( 1 ) 
of Rule 45 , authorising the holder to slipervise electrical installation works in 
the premises of a mine. 

[No. El- III- 353 ( 25 ). ] 
N . S . VASANT, 
Officer on Special Duty . 


07 


= - = 


SEC . 8 (ii)] THE GAZE ITE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , 1959 /PHALGUNA 9, 1880 
= = = --- = = = = = 

= - = - = - = - = 
MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 
(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 19th February 1959 


S . O . 467. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Ssection (i ) of Section 
6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 ( XXXI of 1950 ), the 
Central Government hereby appoints for Delhi, Shri Sardari Lal, for the time 
being holding the post of Managing Officer (Grade II ) , as Assistant Custodian 
for the purpose of discharging the duties assigned to the Custodian of Evacuee 
Property , by or under the said Act. 

[No. 16 ( 8 ) - Admn (Prop ) / 58 .] 


S . O . 468. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub -Section (1 ) of Section 3 
of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri M , N . Mukerjee as Assistant Set 
tlement Offcer, for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
officers by or under the said Act with effect from date he took charge of his office . 

[No. 8 / 204 / Admn ( R ) /59 .] 


New Delhi, the 21st February 1959 
S . O . 469. In exercise of the powers conferred by Section ( I ) of Section 3 of 
the Displaced Persons ( Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 (No. 12 of 1954 ) , the 
Central Government hcreby appoints Shri P . N , Bhanot, as Settlement Com 
missioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such Com 
missioner by or under the said Act. 

[ No . 11 - A ( 51 ) -59 ( CSC ) / AI- I.) 


S .O . 470 . — In cxercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( I) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 (44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri P . N . Bhanot , as Settlement 
Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such Com . 
missioner by or under the said Act. 

[No. 11- A ( 51 ) -59(CSC ) / AI- II.] 

M . L . PURI, 
Settlement Commissioner & Ex -Officio Under Secy . 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 21st February 1959 
S . O . 471 . — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Sub -Section ( 2 ) of 
Section 10 of the Displaced Persons ( Claims ) Supplementary Act, 1954 ( 12 of 
1954 ) , I have delegated to Shri P . N . Bhanot, Settlement Commissioner with effect 
from 19th February , 1959, the following powers of the Chief Settlement Com 
missioner : 
1. Power to call for the record of any case decided by the Settlement Officer 

and pass order in the case under provision to Sub - Section ( 3 ) of 

Section 4 of the said Act , 
2 . Special power of revision under Section ( 5 ) of the said Act in respect of 

cases decided under the Displaced Persons ( Claims) Act, 1950 ( 44 of 
1950 ) . 

[No. 11- A (51 )-59 (CSC )/AI- III.] 


S . O . 472 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Sub - Section ( 2 ) of 
Section 10 of the Displaced Persons (Claims ) Supplementary , Act, 1954 ( 12 of 
1954 ) , I have delegated Shri P . N . Bhanot, Settlement Commissioner , with effect 
from the 19th February , 1959, the following powers of the Chief Settlement Com 
missioner namely :- - 

1 . Power to transfer cases to Settlement Officers by gencral or special 

order under Sub - Section ( I) of Section 4 of the said Act . 


108 


THIE GAZETTE OF INDI : FEBRUARY 28, 1959 / PHALGUNA 9 , 1880 PARI II 
- = - - - - - 

-- - - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - - 


- - 


- - - 


2 , Power to require a Settlement Oflicer to appoint one or more persons to 

advise him in any procerding pending before him , under Sub - Section 

( 2 ) of Section 6 of the said Act. : 
3 . Power to transfer any case pending before a Settlement Officer to another 
Settlement Officer under Section 7 of the said Act. 

[No, Il- A (51) - 59 /CSC / AI- IV . ] . 


S . O . 473 . – 11 exercise of the powers conferred on me by Sub - Section ( 2 ) of 
Section 34 on the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 
( 44 of 1954 ) , I hereby delegate to Shri P . N . Bhanot, Settlement Commissioner 
with effect from the 19th February , 1959 , the following powers of the Chief 
Settlement Commissioner : 

1. Power to hear appeals under Section 23 of the said Act, 
2 . Power to hear revisions under Section 24 of thc said Act . 

[No. 11 - A ( 51 ) -59 /CSC / AI- V ) 

L . J. JOHNSON , 
Chief Settlement Commissioner . 


- - -- 


-- - - - 


- - - 


- - - 


- - - - - 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 20th February 1959 


S . O . 474 / PWA / Procedure / Rules / Am . 1. - The following draft of certain amerid 
ments to the Payment of Wages ( Proccdure ) Rules , 1937 , which the Central 
Governnent proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sections 
( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of section 26 of the Paynient of Wages Act , 1938 ( 4 of 1936 ) is pub 
lished as required by sub - section ( 5 ) oſ section 26 of the said Act for the informa 
tion of all persons likely to be affected thereby , and notice is hereby given that 
the said draft will be taken into consideration 011 or after the 25th May 1959 . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received I rom any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. Objections or suggestions should be addressed to the 
Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of Labour & Employment, New 
Delhi, 

· Draft Amendments 
1. In rule 2 , after clause ( g ), the following clause shall be inserted , namely : 
" ( 88 ) record of direction or order " means the record of an order dismissing 

either wholly or in part an application inade under sub - section ( 2 ) 
of section 15 or of a direction made under sub -section ( 3 ) or sub 

scetion ( 4 ) of that sertion kept in Form F , " 
2 . In sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule o , for the words " record of direction in Form F " the 
words “ record of direction or order ” shall be substituted . 

3. In rule 10 , for the words " a Record of Direction " the words " The record of 
direction or order " shall be substituted . 

4. In rule 12 - - 
(i) for sub -rule ( 1) the following sub - rule shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( 1 ) An appeal shall be preferred in duplicate in the form of a memorar 

dum , one copy of which shall bear the prescribed court fee , setting 
forth concisely the grounds of objection to the order dismissing either 
wholly or in part an application made under sub - section ( 2 ) of sec 
tion 15 or a direction made under sub -section ( 3 ) Or sub - section ( 4 ) 
of that section , as the case may be, and shall be accompanied by a 

certified copy of the said order or direction " , 
(ii ) in sub - rule ( 3 ), for the word " direction " , the words " order or direction " 
shall be substituted . 


SEC . 8 (11 ) THE GAZET TE OF INDIA : TEBRUARY 28 , 19.19 / PUALGUNA 9 , 1880 5 09 
- - . . 

- - - - - - - 
5 , In Form F 
( 1 ) for the heading " Record of Direction " , thc words " Record of order or 

direction shall be substituted ; 
( ii ) for item 7 , the following item shall be substituited , namely : 
" 7 . Finding, and , in the case of an order dismiss .lig either wholly or in part, 

an application made under sub - section ( ? ) of section 15 or of a direc 
tion macle under sul - section ( 3 ) or sub - section ( 4 ) of that section , a 
brief statement of the reason , therefor : — 

[No. Fac. 49 ( 32 ) /58 .] 
B . K . BHATTACHARYA , Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 20th lehruny 1959 


S . O . 475 . — In exercise ot the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
.13 of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central Govern 
mont hereby appoints Shri M . K . Bhatnagar to be an Inspector for the whole of 
the Union Territory of Delhi for the purposes of the said Act and of any Scheme 
made thereunder , in relation to itd establishment belonging to , or under the 
control of the Central Governinent or in relation to an establishinient connected 
with a railway company, a major port, a mine or an oil -veld or a controlled 
industry , vice Shri R . P . Sood . 

[ No. PF - 1 /31( 548 ) /59. J 


S .O . 476 . — In pursuance of paragraph 3 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund 
Scheme published with the notification of the Government o [ India in the late 
Muistry of Labour No . PF . 15 ( 5 ) 48 dated the 11th December 1948 , the Central 
Government hereby nominates Shri I. B . S . R . Surita , IAS , Commissioner, 
Burdwan Division , to the Board of Trustees and makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of 
Labour No . S . R . O . 2227 , dated the 5th October , 1955 , namely : 

In the sa . d notification , for the entry " 4 ) Shri B . Sarkar , I. C S ., Commissioner , 
Burdwan Division , PO. Chinsurah , West Bengal" , the entry " ( 4 ) Shri I. B . S . R . 
Şurita , I. A . S ., Cominissioner , Burdwan Division , P . O . Chin . urnh , West Bengal" 
shall be substituted . 

No. PF . 1 / 4 (35 ) 58 . / 


New Delhi, the 24th February 1959 
S . O . 477. - In pursuance of paragraph 4 of the Employees Provident Funds 
Schenie , 1952, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri B . Sen Gupta , I. A . S ., 
Deputy Secretary o the Government of West Bengal, Fnance Department, to be 
a member of the Regional Committee for the State of West Bengal and makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour NU , S . R . O . 1278 dated the 20th June, 1953 , nama y : 
In the said notification , for entry 13), the following entry shall be substi 

tuted , namely : 
- ( 3 ) Shri B Sen Gupta , LAS., Deputy Secretary to the Governinent of 
West Bengal, Finance Department, Calcutta " , 

[No. PF . II , 45 ( 237 / 57.1 
P . D . GAIHA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 23rd February 1959 


S . O . 478 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby piblishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal. Bombay, in the Industrial Dispute between Messers Tulsidas 
Khimji and their workman , 


SIO THE CAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28. 1959 / PHALGUNA 9, 1880 [Part II 

- - - - - - - - - - 
BEFORE SHRI F . JEEJEEBHOY, CHAIRMAN , LABOUR APPELLATE TRIBUNAL 
OF INDIA FUNCTIONING AS THE SOLE MEMBER OF THE CENTRAL GOVERN 
MENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL CONSTITUTED BY THE ORDER OF THE 
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA , MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 
DATED 8TH NOVEMBER 1958. WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOMBAY . 

REFERENCE No . CGIT- 2 OF 1958 . 

In the matter of 
Messrs. Tulsidas Khimji 

AND 

Their workmen . 
APPEARANCES : 
For the employers : Shri P . P . Khambatta and Shri A , T . Joshi. 
For the workinen : Shri M . G . Kotwal and Shri S . R . Kulkarni. Later Shri N . V . 
Phadke, 

Dated : 12th February 1959 . 

AWARD 
By its Order of 8th November 1958 the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour and Employrnent referred to this Tribunal for adjudication the industrial 
dispute existing between the partnership of Tulsidas Khimji and their workmen 
concerning the question as to the quantum of bonus payable to the workmen for 
the year ending 31st October 1957 and the conditions governing its payment. 

2 . The employers engage their workmen inter alia for the concern s clearing 
and forwarding business carried on in the dock area of the Port of Bombay . The 
employers are also engaged in other co -related business to which reference will 
be made later in this award . The employers have paid the workmen bonus equi 
valent to three month s basic wages and one month s dearness allowance , but some 
thing less to those with service within three ycars ; labour is not satisfied and wants 
more . 

3 . Two preliminary objections have been taken by Shri Khambatta on behalf 
of the employers . Firstly , it is said that the dispute between the parties above 
named is not a dispute concerning which the Central Government is the appro 
priate Government for the purpose of making the Reference . It is urged that in 
as much as the port authorities are not parties to or interested in this Reference 
the Reference cannot appropriately be made by the Central Government. Without 
prejudice to the above contention the cmployers raise a second objection , namely , 
that as the activities of the concern embrace a number of different and unconnected 
businesses the Reference can only have referchce to the workers worlcing at the 
docks. This question however could be determined only after the facts were more 
apparent. 

4 . As regards the first point, section 2 ( a ) of the Industrial Disputes Act defines 
the appropriate Government as follows : 
“ In relation to any industrial dispute concerning any industry carried on by 

Or under the authority of the Central Government or by a railway 
company or concerning any such controlled Industry as may be speci 
fled in this behalf by the Central Government / or in relation to an 
industrial dispute concerning a banking or an insurance company , a 
mine , an oilfield or a major port, the Central Government, . . . " . 


5 . Shri Khambatta has urged that by reason of the merc fact that certain 
workmen carry out their duties within the port area it does not follow that an 
industrial dispute between them and their employers is a matter in dispute con 
cerning a major port . 

6 . There is some substance in the contention of Shri Khambatta . The wording 
of the last sentence of the section reproduced above is not too happy . For instance, 
when the section speaks of an " industrial dispute concerning a major port " it 
cannot mean an industrial dispute in which the major port itself is the subject 
of dispute ; it can only mean disputes in or about the functions of the major port. 
Whether the term " functions" as used by me here must necessarily restrict itself 
to only those cases where the Port Trust and its immediate employees are con 
cerned , or whether it should be more extensive , is of course a question which requires 
consideration . When the piece - rate scheme for dock workers was given for the 


SEC, 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , . . AL A9, 
-- - - - - = 

= = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = 
port of Bombay , the parties to the dispute were the Port Trust on the one hand 
and the dock workers on the other , and a third party was the Dock Labour Board 
of Bombay which by statute supplies stevedoring labour. In that Reference the 
stevedores were also made parties to the dispute . Simultaneously the disputes 
between tha workmen and contractors engaged in stevedoring work on their own 
in Bombay port were also referred for separate adjudication by the Central Gov 
ernment, and those References were heard and decided , and no objection was 
taken as to the Central Government s being the appropriate Government. A 
similar question was decided by the Adjudicator Shri Dave who was then the 
Chairman of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal at Dhanbad In Reference 
No . 14 of 1954 where he held that the Central Government was the appropriate 
Government for making the Fcference relating to disputes between certain clearing 
and forwarding agents of the Port of Bombay and their workmen . 

7 . According to the statement of the concern their work consists of clearing and 
forwarding which includes getting the documents released from the customs, and 
removing the goods from the docks for despatch either to railway stations or for 
railing to destination , or to their godowns for storage, or to the local importers 
godowns. The Company treats the dock and railway staff as in reality one, and 
the activities of the staff in godowns are co -ordinated and directed by a small 
section in the office . The above is a reproduction of what the cmployers have 
stated in a letter to the Regional Labour Commissioner on 29th January 1959, 

8 . The company also carries on a lucrative business by letting out space in 
godowns owned or hired by it , and anything between 25 % and 40 % of godowny 
space is in constant occupation of customer s goods cleared by the concern . Some 
op the goods are also insured by the concern acting as agents of the Insurance 
Company . There is a further activity of the concern in that it acts as controllers 
for the East India Cotton Association . As controllers this concern draws samples 
of cotton and seals them , and after the samples have been approved by the East 
India Cotton Association the bales are removed by the owners under the escort 
of this concern to the dock gates; but there is no clearance by this concern through 
customs in respect of these goods. 

9 . The port authorities have been constituted for the essential purpose of facili -- 
tating trade, which includes the loading and unloading of goods and the removal 
of goods from the docks. In my opinion a dispute between the employers and 
their workmcn in connection with such work , and within the area of the Port 
or an extension of such work as there appearing , is an industrial dispute for which . 
the Central Government is the appropriate Government for making a Reference in 
terms of the Industrial Disputes Act. Thus in my opinion the validity of the 
Reference cannot be challenged . 

10. I shall later deal with the question as to who are the workmen covered by 
this Reference or in respect of whom the Central Government is appropriate 
Government for making a Reference . 


11 . Coạnsel for the concern has contended that this Tribunal is concerned with 
profits of the clearing and shipping departments only . It is claimed that the 
godowns department has nothing to do with clearing and shipping as such , and 
that the utilisation of the company s godowns for storing goods of customers is 
independent of clearing and forwarding . It is also said that so far as the insur 
ance department is concerned , it is utilised for insuring some goods only as agents 
of the principal company ; and as regards the cotton supervision and control 
department, it is urged that the work of the concern is only to draw samples of 
cotton and seal them , and to take them under the escort of the company to the 
dock gates , and that this subject does not come within this Reference . 


12. There are two main issues arising out of this Reference . The first is 
whether the concern in the bonus year has made substantial profits to allow for 
the payment of bonus, and what should be the funds constituting such profits . 
The employers have stated that their partnership business is run in four separate 
departments namely , clearing and forwarding , storage and godowns, insurance , 
and cotton control work . It is contended that these departments are separate 
and distinct; their accounts are kept separate , but that there is an integrated 
account for the purpose of income- tax assessment. They therefore contend that 
in the case before me the only accounts which are relevant to the issue are the 
accounts of the clearing and forwarding department. On behalf of the workmen 
it is contended that the prosperity of a concern can only be judged from its inte 
grated activities . I agree with the view of labour on this point. although ques 
tions like the contribution of the particular body of workmen to the profits of 
the year will be a matter for consideration when awarding bonus. 


512 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 18, 1939 /PHALGUNA 9 , 1880 [PART II 
- = - = - = -- - - - - - - - - - --- - -- = -- - - - - - - 

13 . I have no doubt that for ascertaining the profits of the partnership for 
The year the figures of all the departments must be taken into consideration , for 
it cannot be said that there is in respect of any one of the departments concerned 
anything in the nature of extraneous incone. The company when called upon 
to do so produced its consolidated statement of account for the bonus year , and 
on inat consolidated acrount the quantum available for bonus has to ho 
ascertained . 

14 . The second issue raises the question as to who are the employees fulling 
within this Reference . It dues appear that ordinarily the employees are contained 
within their departinents . Thus there is no dispute that the clearing and forward 
ing department workmen ( including clerks ) will be entitled to bonus. I have no 
doubt that the workmen ( including clerks ) of the godowns department are also 
entitled to bonus il it is granted under this Reference. The storage of goods 
removed by this concern on behalf of importer s is anything between 25 per cent. 
and 10 per cerit . of the storage space in their goduwns, and this work constitutes 
Hil extension of the work of clearing and forwarding department. It is true that 
this work of clearing and shipping can be carried out without the use of any 
gudowiis , but the fact remains that the company has utilised the godowns for the 
purpose of storing its client s goods , and it does not require any stretch of the 
imagination to conclude that a clearing shipping agent has an advantage over 
others if he also has storage facilities for his clients goods . The next item of 
insurance is a Central subject, the insuring business is negligible for present 
purposes both as regards Its personnel as well as the profits made . It may well 
be that the workmen of the cotton control department are not covered by this 
Referenre ; but it has become a trison that its certain workmon of a concern üre 
given bonus, it is difficult to deny such bonus to the rest. It may be true that 
the departurients are kept separate , but the partnership is a single entity consist 
ing ul 6 partners , and the work of all the departments is integrated at the level 
of accounts and at higher managerlal policy and control. I hold that the persons 
claiming honus , before me are the empluyees including clerks of all the depart 
inenty except that of the cotton control work . But in determining the quantum 
available for bonus I must calculate on the basis that all the workmen would 
have to be paid bonus, and that is what the company hus in fact clone 


15 As to the quantum available for bonus, the accounts of the concern have 
been given under a seal of confidence under Section 21 of the Act, and I should 
1100 refer to the Agures except in so far as it is essential that I should do so for 
the purposes of this decision . This concern is 70 years old and is run by six 
partners , three of whom have been in the business for inore than 35 vears ; one 
of the junior partners is qualified in business management and administration . 
The insurance business brings comparative insignificant amount of proflts . The 
profits of the godown business and cotton control department are the highest . 

The profts of the clearing and forwarding department are about hall the profit 
rif the godown department 

16 . The company has 230 workmen on its rolls . It has paid them all bonus 
lequivalent to three months basic wages and one month s dearness allowance , and 
something less to those who have not completed three years service The amount 
of bonus so paid is approximately cqulvalent to the whole of the profits of the 
rilearing and forwarding department. On another basis the bonus paid is equi 
valent to about one third of consolidated profts less normal depreciation (which 
is negligible ) and less taxation . As to prior charges after depreciation and after 
taxation in terms of the Full Bench formula , the partners have the right to claim 
a legitimate return of not less than 6 per rent. on the capital of Rs. 2 .95 ,000 
which they have invested , as also remuneration for their individual whole time 
work in the partnership business. The company has also claimed a return on 
T eserves used as working capital, but this claim is somewhat, misconceived . The 
company has also made a claim to Rs. 75 ,000 as a prior charge on acrount of 
reserves " for gratuity and other financlal burdens like wage scales etc ." This 
claim is clearly not admissible to the extent to which it has hecn made; it is true 
that in 1957 the wage scales were by agreement revised ; but the employers cannot 
claim to take away in these calculations a slice of the profits of this bonus year 
As recompense for what they agreed to pay by way of higher wages in future 
vears . No doubt A reasonable reserve is permissible under the formulas for a 
gratuity fund , provided that such a fund is in existenre But the amount of such 
A reserve as a prior charge under the formula should be limited to anything bet 
ween 5 per cent. to 10 per cent of the total requirements of the gratuity fund 
so that the gratuity charge is not inflated at the expense of labour s bonus . 
Labour has also objected to a sum nt Rs. 35 ,386 kept aside for contingency reserves . 
but those are the only reserves with the company . 


SEC . 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : ) EBRCARY 28 , 1959 / PHALGUNA 9 , 1880 5 13 
-- -- -- --- -- - - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - -- = — - = = - - --- = - = - = 

17. Upon a proper calculation of these items in terms of the Full Bench for 
rnula it is apparent that the amount paid out as bonus, having regard to the trad 
ing results of the year is more than reasonable , subject however to the directions 
hereinafter contained . It has been the practice of this concern in the past to 
give a lesser rate of bonus to those who had put in less than three years service , 
whereas Tribunals grant the same rate of bonus to everybody irrespective of 
years of service. I am told by the employers that only a small proportion of the 
employees have been affected by this differentiation , and I direct that these per 
sons shall be paid bonus at the same rate as the others notwithstanding the tact 
that they had worked for less than three years . The amount which becomey due 
to then to bonus for the year by reason of this award . 

19 . The claim of the workmen to higher bonus fails , and the issue in the 
Reference is negatived , except to the extent stated above. 
20). Now , therefore , I make this award in terms aforesaid . 

( Sd .) F . JEEJEEBHOY, 

Chairman , 
Labour Appellate Tribunal of India , functioning 

as - the Sole Member , Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, with headquarters at 

Bombay 
The 12th February , 1959 . 

[ No. LR . IV -28(41) /58.] 
New Delhi, the 2411 February 1959 
$ . 0 . 479. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 22 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , read with the proviso to sub 
section ( 2 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby specifies , 
for a further period of six months from the 26th February , 1959, the Labour 
Inspector ( Central ) at Ambala , as the authority to whom the employer shall 
send intimation of any lock -out or strike referred to in the said sub -section , in 
the States of Punjab and Jammu & Kashmir and in the Union Territory of 
Himachal Pradesh . 

[No. LRI- 1 ( 17 ) /59. ] 


S . O . 480 . - In cxercise of the powers conterred by section 4 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 v 1947 ) , read with the proviso to sub - section ( 2 ) of sec 
tion l of the said Act , the Central Government herciby appoints the Labour 
Inspector ( Central ) at Ambala as Conciliation OfHcer for a further period of six 
months from the 26th February , 1959; for ull industrial disputes - - 
(a ) in the State of Punjab and the Union Territory of Himachal Pradesin 

concerning workmen employed in - - 
( 1) any industry carried on by or under the authority of the Central 

Government other than railways , 
( ji ) any controlled industry specified by the Central Government under 

sub - clause ii ) of clause ( a ) of section 2 of the said Act ; 
( iii) any mine; 
( iv ) any oil field ; 
( v ) any banking, or insurance company, having branches or other estab 

lishments in more than one State ; 
( b ) in the State of Jammu and Kashmir concerning workmen employed 
under the Government of India . 

[No. LRI- 1 ( 17 ) /59. ] 
A . L . HANDA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 24th February 1959 


S . O . 481. - In pursuance of the proviso to clause ( 8 ) of regulation ? of the 
Coal Mines Regulations, 1957, the Central Government hereby authorises the 
District Magistrates, Nanded and Chanda districts in the State of Bombay , as 

District Magistrates in the case of the Sasti and Ghugus Collicries respectively , 


514 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28, 1959 /PHALGUNA 9, 1980 [PART II 


- - - - 


- 


•wned by the Ballarpur Collieries Company, for the purposes of the said regula 
tions . 

[No. MI- 1 ( 13 ) 58 . ] 

P. N . SHARMA, Under Secy . 
ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 21st February 1959 
S . O . 482.. -Wlıcreas the Central Government is of the opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists betwcen the employers in relation to the Lachmi Colliery , Parbad , 
And their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ; 

And whereas , the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
( i ) Whether the management of the Lachmi Colliery was justified in 

retrenching Shri Ram Narayan Tiwari, a workman of the colliery ; it. 

not , to what relief is he entitled and with effect from which date ? 
( li) Whether the provisions laid down in chapter VA of the Industrial Dis 

putes Act, 1947 , were followed in retrenching the workman ; if not, 
to what relief is he entitled and with effect from which date ? 

[No. LRII-2 ( 12 ) 59. ) 


New Delhi, the 24th February 1959 
S . O . 483. - - Whereas the Central Government is , of Opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to M / s Bikaner Gypsums Ltd . 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - sec 
tion ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Con 
tral Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Delhi, constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the dismissal / discharge of the undermentioned workmen from service 
by the management of M / s Bikaner Gypsums Ltd ., Bikaner , was justified , and 
if not, to what relief these workmen are entitled : 

1. Shri Bhanwar Lal Verma, Supervisor , 
2 . Shri Sita Ram Agarwal, Supervisor . 
3. Shri Tulsi Singh , Driver. 
4. Shri A , K . Mukherjee, Wireman . 
6 . Shri Mohabat Singh , Sampler , 
8 . Shri Shera ( Son of Heera ), Mazdoor . 

[ No. LRII -84 ( 14 ) 58 - II. ) 
K . D . HAJELA , Under Secy . 


— 


— 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


:- 


- 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 21st February 1959 
8 . 0 . 484 ...-- The Central Government hereby: 
( a ) directs , in pursuance of the provisions of the Order of the Government 

of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S .R . O . 
3805 , dated the 26th December, 1955 and in modification of the Order 


SEC. 9 ( il )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 28 , 1969 /PHALGUNA 9 , 1880 


SI5 


of the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broad 
casting No. S . O . 1673 , dated the 9th August, 1958 that the Advisory 
Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Madras would consist 
of 20 members with effect from 7th December , 1958 and shall consist 

of 25 members with immediate effect ; 
( b ) notifleg for general information that Shrimati P . Mandakini Bai, a 

member of the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors 
at Madras retircd under sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 9 of the Cinematograph 

(Censorship ) Rules 1958 with effect from 7th December , 1958; and 
( c ) appoints, after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors, 

the following persons as members of the Advisory Panel of the said 
Board at Madrag with immediate effect in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 9 of 

the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules, 1958 : 
1 . Dr. S . K . Nayar. 
2. Shri C , H . Sibghathullah . 
3 . Professor P . V . Chalapateswara Rao . 
4 . Shrimati Visalakshi Narayanaswamy. 
5 . Shrimati A , V . Patre. 

[No. F .14 / 1 /67 - FC .] 
D . R . KHANNA , Under Secy . 


ERRATA 
In the Gazette of India Part II- Section 3 (11) , Issue No. 8 , dated 21st February , 
1959 , the following 8 .0 . Nos, are to be corrected : -- 

Page 433, for " S .O . 3931" read " S . O . 393 " . . 
Page 445 , for " S .O . 411" read " S . O . 418 " . 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELAT, 1959 


