■REGISTERED No. D, 281 


% Its (B&zette 



*5<W i Vt4 


of Inbia 


EXTRAORDINARY 

PART II—Section 3—Sub section (il) 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No._.jn NEW DELHI, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18 , 1961 /PAUSA 28 , 1881 

CABINET SECRETARIAT 

NOTIFICATION 

New Delhi, the l&tli January 1901 

S.O. 196.—The following Order made by the President on 14th January 1961, 
Is published for general Information:— 

ORDER 

In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (3) of article 77 of the Consti¬ 
tution and in supersession of all previous rules and orders on the subject, the 
President hereby makes the following rules for the allocation of the business of 
the Government of India:— 

1. Short title.—These rules may be called the Government of India (Alloca¬ 
tion of Business) Rules, 19G1. 

2. Allocation of Business.—The business of the Government of India shall be 
transacted in the Ministries. Departments, Secretariats and Offices specified in 
the First Schedule to these Rules (all of which are hereinafter referred to as 
“departments”). 

8. Distribution of subjects.—The distribution of subjects among the depart¬ 
ments shall be as specified in the Second Schedule to these Rules. 

4. Allocation of departments among Ministers.—The President may, on the 
advice ol the Prime Minister, allocate the business of the Government of India 
among Ministers by assigning one or more departments to the charge of a Minis¬ 
ter; 

Provided that— 

(a) in relation to the business allotted to a Minister, another Minister or 

Deputy Minister may be associated to perform such functions as may 
be assigned to him; and 

(b) the responsibility for specified items of business affecting any one or 

more than one department may be entrusted to a Minister without 
Portfolio who is not in charge of any department. 

The First Schedule 
(Rule 2) 

MINISTRIES, DEPARTMENTS, SECRETARIATS AND OFFICF3 

1. Ministry of Commerce & Industry: 

(j) Department ol Commerce 

(ii) Department of Industry 

(iii) Department of Company Law Administration 

( 51 ) 


52 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART Jl 


2. Ministry of Community Development & Cooperation: 

(i) Department of Community Development 

(ii) Department of Cooperation 
2. Ministry of Defence. 

4. Ministry of Education. 

5. Ministry of External Affairs. 

<5. Ministry of Finance: 

(1) Department of Economic Affairs 
(ii) Department of Expenditure 
(ill) Department of lie venue 

7. Ministry of Food & Agriculture: 

(1) Department of Agriculture 
(ii) Department of Food 

8. Ministry of Health. 

9. Ministry of Home Affairs. 

10. Ministry of Information & Broadcasting. 

11. Ministry of Irrigation & Power. 

12. Ministry of Labour & Employment. 

13. Ministry of Law: 

(1) Department of Legal Affairs 
(ii) Legislative Department 

14. Ministry of Railways, 

15. Ministry of Rehabilitation. 

18, Ministry of Scientific Research & Cultural Affairs. 

17. Ministry of Steel, Mines & Fuel: 

(i) Department of Iron & Steel 

(ii) Department of Mines & Fuel 

18. Ministry of Transport & Communications: 

(i) Departments of Communications & Civil Aviation 

(ii) Department of Transport 

19. Ministry of Works, Housing & Supply. 

20. Department of Atomic Energy. 

21. Department of Parliamentary Affairs. 

22. Cabinet Secretariat, 

23. President's Secretariat. 

24. Prime Minister's Secretariat, 

25. Planning Commission. 

The Second Schedule 
(Rule 3) 

Distribution of subjects among the departments. 

MINISTRY OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY 
A—Department of Commerce 
I. Trade 

1. Foreign Trade. 

2. State Trading. 

3. Protection of interests of Indian traders abroad. 

4. Trade Missions and Delegations, 

5. Internal Trade. 



Sec. 5(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


53 


6. Inter-State Trade; the Spirituous Preparation (Inter-State Trade and Com¬ 
merce) Control Act, 1953. 

7. International Commodity Agreement other than wheat, 

8. Internationa] Trade Agreements. 

9. Import Trade Control. 

10. Export Trade Control. 

11. Control of prices of export goods. 

12. Control of Futures Trading [The Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 
1952], 

13. Trade Promotion (except promt,Con of export of exDOsed cine films), Pub¬ 
licity and Research. 

14. ECAFE and its Committee on Industry and Trade. 

15. Essential Commodities Act (Supply, prices and distribution of essential 
commodities not dealt with specifically by any other Ministry). 

16. Export Credit Guarantee. 

17. Fairs and Exhibitions abroad and in India; Government Showrooms and 
Trade Centres abroad. 

II. Commercial Intelligence, Statistics and Publications 

18. Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, 

19. Commercial Publications including periodicals. 

III. Trade Marks, Patents and Designs 

20. The Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1858. 

21. Standards of Weights and Measures. 

22. Standardisation of International Products and raw materials; the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Act, 1952. 

23. Patents and Designs (The Indian Patents and Designs Act, 1911). 

IV, Enemy Property 

24. Reparations (other than German Industrial Equipment). 

25. Control of trade with the enemy and enemy firms and custody of enemy 
property. 

V, Plantation Industries 

86. Tea (The Tea Act, 1953); International Tea Regulation Scheme, Export 
Cess on Tea. 

27. Rubber (The Rubber Act, 1947). 

28. Coffee (The Coffee Act, 1942). 

VI. Textiles 

29. Cotton Textiles (including Jute) 

30. Raw Cotton. 

31. All questions connected with supply, prices and distribution of Textiles. 

VII, Village Industries 

32. Development of Handloom Industry (The Khadi & Other Handloom Indus¬ 
tries Development—Additional Excise Duty on Cloth Act, 1953). 

33. Coordination and development of village industries including Khadi & Handi¬ 
craft. 

34. Ambar Charkha. 

35. Sericulture. 

36. Development of Gur and Khandsari Industry, 

VIII. Tariff and Customs 

37. General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 

38. Tariff Policy (The Indian Tariff Act, 1934). 

39. Tariff Commission (The Tariff Commission Act, 1951). 



54 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Past H 


40. Tariff Valuation. 

41. Tariff Protection to Industries. 

42. Land Custom Policy. 

43. International Customs Tariff Bureau. 

44. Commonwealth Tariff Preferences. 

45. Customs nomenclature and similar matters. 

IX. All matters relaxing to the following 
46(a). Attached/Subordinate Offices and Semi-Government Organisations: 

(i) Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi. 

(11) Textile Commissioner, Bombay. 

(iil) Economic Adviser to the Government of India, New Delhi. 

(iv) Tariff Commission, Bombay. 

(v) Forward Markets Commission, Bombay. 

(vi) Director General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, Calcutta. 

(vii) Controller of Enemy Trading and Enemy Firms and Custodian of Enemy 

Property. 

(viii) Registrar of Trade Marks, Bombay. 

(ix) Controller of Patents and Designs, Calcutta. 

(x) Jute Commissioner, Calcutta. 

(xi) Indian Standards Institution, New Delhi. 

(xll) Cotton Textiles Fund Committee, Bombay. 

(xlii) Khadi and Village Industries Commission, Bombay.. 

(xlv) All-India Handloom Board, Bombay. 

(xv) Rubber Board, Kottayam. 

(xvi) Tea Board, Calcutta. 

(xvil) Coffee Board, Bangalore. 

(xvili) Coir Board, Ernakulam. 

'(xix) Khadi and Village Industries Board. 

(xx) Central Silk Board, Bombay. 

(xxi) Central Sericultural Research Station, Berhampur. 

(xxii) All-India Handicrafts Board. 

(xxiii) Indian Trade Representatives abroad. 

(b) State Undertakings and Government Corporations: 

(i) State Trading Corporation Ltd. 

(il) Export Risks Insurance Corporation Ltd. 

(lii) Indian Handicrafts Development Corporation Ltd. 

B— Department of Industry 

I. Industrial Policy 

1. General Industrial Policy. 

2. The Administration of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 

3. Productivity in Industry. 

A— Department of Community Development 

4. Planning, development and control of and assistance to all industries (with 
the exception of iron and steel and sugar and vanaspati). 

5. Manufacture of heavy engineering equipment for all industries including 
coal mining equipment, 

6. Heavy Machinery Project. 

7 . Foundry Forge Project. 

$. Coal Mining Equipment Project. 



fee. S (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


55 

9. Heavy Electrical Equipment Project. 

10. Machinery Industries including Machine Tools and Steel manufacture. 

11. Auto and Electrical Engineering Industries including tyres and tubes. 

12. Cables, 1 [ 

13. Light Engineering Industries (e.g., Sewing machines, typewriters, weigh¬ 
ing machines, bicycles, etc.). 

14. Optical Glass Project. 

15. Light Industries (e.g., Plywood, stationery, matches, cigarettes, etc.). 

10. Cement—Supply, price and distribution. 

III. Chemicaj.s and Drugs 

17. Heavy Chemical Industries (e.g.. Caustic Soda, Soda Ash, Raw films, 
Hardboard, Paper and Newsprint, Synthetic Rubber). 

18. Light Chemical Industries (e.g., Dyestuffs, drugs and other fine chemicals, 
plastics, soap, etc.). 

19. Fertilizers. 

20. Insecticides. 

21. Antibiotics. 

22. Salt, 

23. Power Alcohol (The Indian Power Alcohol Act, 1948). 

IV. Small Scale Industries 

24. Coordination of the development of small-scale industries; 

(i) Small Scale Industries Board. 

(ii) National Small Industries Corporation. 

(iii) Coir Industry Act. 1953. 

liv) Development of Industries in the Refugee townships and colonies 
located m the Western Region. 

V. All matters relating to 
25 (a). Attached/Subordinate Offices: 

(i) The Development Wing, New Delhi. 

(ii) The Development Commissioner, Small Scale Industries, New Delhi, 
(hi) The Salt Commissioner, Jaipur. 

(iv) Government Salt Works. 

<b). State Industrial Undertakings and Government Corporations: 

(i) The National Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. 

(ii) The National Small Industries Corporation Ltd. 

(hi) Sindri Fertilisers and Chemicals Ltd., Sindri. 

(iv) Nangal Fertilisers and Chemicals Ltd.,- New Nangal. 

(v) Hindustan Insecticides Ltd., Najafgarh, Delhi. 

(vi) Hindustan Antibiotics Ltd., Pimpri. 

(vii) Hindustan Machine Tools Ltd., Ja’ahalli, Bangalore. 

(viii) Heavy Electricals Ltd,, Bhopal. 

(ix) National Instruments Ltd., Calcutta. 

(x) Hindustan Cables Ltd., Roopnarainpur, West Bengal. 

(xi) Nahan Foundry Ltd., Nahan, Himachal Pradesh. 

(xii) Hindustan Salt Company Ltd., Jaipur. 

C—Department of Company Law Administration 

1. Administration of the Companies Act. 

2. Profession of Accountancy (Chartered Accountants Act). Profession of 
Costs and Works Accountancy and Company Secretaryship. 

3. Collection of Statistics relating to Companies. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II 


4. Legislation of the Indian Partnership Act, and the exercise of certain func¬ 
tions under Chapter VII of the Act in centrally administered areas, (Tire Ad¬ 
ministration of the Act vests in the State Governments). 

5. Commission of Inquiry, 

6. The responsibility of the Centre relating to matters concerning centrally 
administered areas in respect of itmes 1 to 4 above. 

MINISTRY OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT & COOPERATION 


A—Department of Community Development 

1. Community Development Programme. 

2. Village panchayats. I 

3. Training of Block Development Officers. 

4. Training of Social Education Organisers, 

5. Training of non-officials. 

0. Central Institute for Study and Research in Community Development, 
Mussoorie. 

Note. —The Central Government is concerned with major questions of 
policy relating to the community development programme (including 
allotment of blocks to Slates), formulation of broad pattern of ex¬ 
penditure to be incurred in the blocks and payment of the Centre’s 
share of expenditure on the programme in accordance with certain 
prescribed basis. The executive responsibility for the programmes 
vests in the State Governments. 


B—Department of Cooperation 

1. Agricultural indebtondness and credit. 

2. Cooperation in agricultural sector. 

3. Cooperative Cold Storages. 

4. Matters relating to the National Cooperative Development and Warehous¬ 
ing Board, All India Cooperative Union and the Indian Cooperative Union. 

MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 


1. Defence of India and every part thereof including preparation for defence 
,and all such acts as may be conducive in times of war to its prosecution, and 
after its termination to effective demobilisation. 

2. The Armed Forces of the Union, namely, Army, Navy and Air Force. 

3. The Reserves of the Army, Navy and Air Force, 

4. The Territorial Army and the Auxiliary Air Force. 

9. The National Cadet Corps, the Auxiliary Cadet Corps and the Lok Sahayak 


0. Defence Production and Inspection Organisation. 

7. Works relating to Army, Navy, Air Force and Ordnance Factories. 

8. Hindustan Aircraft Ltd. 

9. Bharat Electronics Ltd. 

10. Remounts, Veterinary and Farms Organisation. 

11. Canteen Stores Department (India). 

12. Defence Research and Development Organisation. 

13. Civilian Services paid from Defence Estimates. 


14. Hydrographic surveys and preparation of navigational charts. 

15. Formation of Cantonments, delimitation/excision of Cantonment areas 
local self-government m such areas, the constitution and powers within such 
areas of Cantonment Boards and authorities and the regulation of house accom¬ 
modation (including the control of rents) in such areas. 

10, Acquisition requisitioning, custody and relinquishment of land and pro¬ 
perty for defence purposes. Eviction of unauthorised occupants from defence 
land and property. 


17. Matters relating to ex-Servicemen including pensioners. 



Sec, S(ii)j 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


57 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

1. Pre-Primary Education. I 

2. Elementary Education. All India Council of Elementay Educa‘ion. 

3. Basic Education. National Institute of Basic Education; Standing Com¬ 
mittee on Basic Education. 

4. Secondary Education; All India Council for Secondary Education, Central 
Board ol Secondary Education, Ajmer; Education and vocational guidance; pub¬ 
lic schools. 

5. University education; Central Universities; University Grants Commission; 
Rural higher education; National Archives of India; Indian Historical Records. 
Commission; Education projects under the India Wheat Loan Educational Ex¬ 
change Programme, Colombo Plan, T.C.M., Ford Foundation Projects, etc, 

6. Institutions of higher learning (other than Univeisitics) excluding techni¬ 
cal institutions and Institute of Indology. 

7. Child welfare and Co-ordination of activi’ics of other Ministries and Orga¬ 
nisations in connection with this subject. 

8. Juvenile delinquency. Bal Bhavan; Children's Museum. 

9. Social Education and adult education; National Book Trust; Delhi Public 
Library. 

10. Social welfare. Ccntial Social Welfare Board. 

11. Physical education, games, sports, boy scouts, girl guides, National Dis¬ 
cipline Scheme etc. 

12. Youth welfare activities, youth festivals, work camp, etc. 

13. Audio Visual Education. 

14. Education of the handicapped; Central Braille Pre.s, Dehra Dun. 

15. Educational research. : 

16. Publications, information and statistics. 

17. Teachers' training. Central Institute of Education. 

18. Propagation and development of Hindi. Preparation of English-Hindi and 
Hindi-English dictionaries and multi-lingual dictionaiics; Standard keyboard for 
the Hindi typewriter and teleprinter. 

19. Sanskrit Commission’s Report and its implementation; preparation of 
Sanskrit dictionaries and Works of reference. 

20. Rehabilitation and other problems relating to displaced teachers and 

students. 1 | 

21. Central Advisory Board of Education. 

22. Unesco and Indian National Commission for Cooperation with Unesco. 

23. All scholarships in subjects other than science, technology, art and cul¬ 

ture; Scheduled castes, Scheduled tribes and other Backward classes scholar¬ 
ships. | 

24. Education and welfare of Indian students overseas; Education Departments 
of Indian Missions overseas; Grants to Hostels in the U.K.; Financial assistance 
to educational institutions and Indian Students’ Associations abroad. 

25. Educational exchange programmes, excepting scholarships for science and 

technology, art and culture and exchange of scientists, technologists, artists, 
dancers, musicians, etc., U.S. Educational Foundation in India and Fulbright 
scholars; Exchange of teachers, professors, educationists, etc. Programme of 
exchange of scholars other than scientists and technologists between India and 
foreign countries. 1 

26. Recruitment of teachers for foreign countries. 

27. Admission of foreign students in Indian institutions, 

28. Central Secretariat Library. 

29. General scholarships scheme, 

30. Orphans and Orphanages (as regards administration only). 

31. Social and Moral Hygiene Programme so far as they relate to women in 
moral danger, that is to say, Rescue Homes and Reception Centres, including 
after-care programmes but excluding (i) the administration of the Suppression 
of Inunoral Traffic in Women and Girls Act, 1956 and (ii) the establishment and 
maintenance of Protective Homes. 



1 HE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II 


58 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL, AFFAIRS 

1. External affairs. 

2. Relations with foreign states and Commonwealth countries. 

3. All matters affecting foreign diplomatic and Consular Officers and U.N. 
Officers and iis specialized agencies in India, 

*1. Passports and visas excluding the grant of visas or endorsements for entry 
into India but including the grant of entry permits to South Africans of non- 
Indian origin under the Reciprocity (South Africa) Rules, 1944 and the grant 
of entry visas for Ceylon nationals except missionaries. 

5, Extradition of criminals and accused persons from India to foreign and 
Commonwealth countries and vice versa, and general administration of the 
Indian Extradition Act, 1903, (XV of 1903), and extra-territoriality. 

0. Preventive detention in India for reasons of Slate connected with External 
and Commonwealth Affairs. 

7. Repatriation of the nationals of foreign and Commonwealth States from 
India and deportation and repatriation of Indian nationals of foreign and Com¬ 
monwealth countires to India. 

8. All emigration under the Indian Emigration Act, 1922, from India to Over¬ 
seas countries and the return of emigrants; immigration to India from the Union 
of South Africa or any other country to which the Reciprocity Act may apply. 

9. All Consular functions. 

10. Travel arrangements for traders, muleteers, porters and pilgrims from 
India to Tibet region of China and vice versa. 

11. Liaison work connected with the Education Ministry’s cultural scholar¬ 
ships schemes and nomination of private students of Indian origin domiciled abroad 
to reserve seats in medical and engineering colleges in India. 

12. The administration of North East Frontier Agencies and the Naga Hills—. 
Tuensang Area specified in Part B of the Table appended to para 20 of the 
Sixth Schedule to the Constitution, excluding administrative control over the 
execution of road works in those areas. 

13. Political pensions paid to foreign refugees and descendants of those who 
rendered services abroad. 

14. Ceremonial matters relating to foreign and Commonwealth Visitors and 
Diplomatic and Consular Representatives. 

15. Foreign Settlements in India. 

10. Matters relating to Pondicherry State. 

17. Relations with States in special Treaty relation with India such as Sikkim 

and Bhutan. ; , 

18. Himalayan expeditions and permission to foreigners to travel beyond the 
"Inner Line”. 

19. Coordination and development measures in border areas. 

20. United Nations, Specialised Agencies and other International Conferences. 

21. Indian Foreign Service. 

22. Indian Foreign Service Branch ‘B’. ' 

23. Indian Frontier Administrative Service. ' 

24. Externa] publicity. 

25. Political treaties, agreements and conventions with foreign and Common¬ 
wealth countries, 

20, (a) Pilgrimages to places outside India including the administration of 
the Port Haj Committee Act, 1932, and the Rules made thereunder and Indian 
Pilgrim Ships Rules, 1933, and pilgrim parties from India to shrines in Pakistan 
ana vice versa, 

(b) Protection and preservation of non-muslim shrines in Pakistan and 
Muslim shrines in India in terms of Pant-Mirza Agreement of 1955. 

27. Abducted Persons (Recovery and Restoration). 

28. Evacua'kn of Non-Muslims from Pakistan to India. 

29. Protection of rights of the Minority Communities in India and Pakistan. 

30. Non-Muslim migration from Pakistan and Muslim migration from India. 



Sec. 3 (ii)] 


I HE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


59 


31. Recovery of advunces granted to the evacuees from Burma, Malaya, etc., 
during the years 1942—47 and residual work relating to refugees given asylum In 
India during world War II. 

32. Notification regarding- commencement or cessation of a state of war. 

33. Foreign Jurisdiction. 

34. Piracies and crimes committed on the high seas or in the air; offences 
against the law of nations committed on land or the high seas or in the uir. 

35. Inquiries and statistics for the purposes of any of the subjects allotted to 
this Ministry, 

30. Fees in respect of any of the subjects allotted to this Ministry. 

37. Offences against laws with respect to any of the subjects allotted to this 
Ministry. 

38. Hospitality Grant of the Government of India. 

39. Demarcation of the land frontier of India. 

40. Border raids and Incidents on the land borders of India. 

41. Diplomatic flight clearances for non-scheduled chartered flights of foreign 
civil and military aircraft transiting India. 

42. Matters relating to the Continental Shelf, Territorial Waters, Contiguous 
Zone and question of fishery rights in the High Seas and other questions of In¬ 
ternational law. 

Note..— Commonwealth countries should be taken to include British Colonies, 
Protectorates and Trust Territories. 1 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

A.-—Department of Economic Affairs 

I. Exchange Control 

1. Administration of the Foreign Exchange Regulations Act, 

2. Foreign exchange budgeting, 1 

3. Control of the foreign exchange resources including scrutiny of proposals 
for imports from the foreign exchange point of view. 

4. Foreign investment. 

5. Import and export of gold and silver. 1 

II. Foreign Aid for Economic Development 
fl. Technical and economic assistance received by India under: — 

(a) The Technical Cooperation Scheme of the Colombo Plan. 

(b) The United States Point Four Programme. 

(c) The United Nations’ Technical Assistance Administration Programme. 

(d) Ad hoc offers of Technical Assistance from various foreign countries. 

7. Assistance given by India:— , [ 

(a) Economic and Technical assistance to the Government of Nepal under 

the Colombo Plan for Cooperative Economic Development. 

(b) Technical assistance to the Member countries of the Colombo Plan 

under Technical Cooperation Scheme of the Colombo Plan. 

8. All matters relating to the Meetings of Colombo Plan Council and the 
Consultative Committee of the Plan and: — 

(i) U.S. Technical Cooperation Mission. 

(ii) U.S. Development Loan Fund, ] 

(ill) Colombo Plan. 

(iv) Norwegian Aid, 

(v) Ford Foundation and Rockefeller Foundation. 

(vi) Loans and Credit from foreign countries. 

(vii) Loans and credit from IBRD and EMF, Export Import Banks etc. 



6o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[P ast U 


III. Internal Finance 

9. Currency and Banking that is to say questions relating to: — 

(a) The Security Press and the Mints including the Assay Department 

and Silver Refinery Project. 

(b) Coinage. 

(c) Note Issue. 

(d) The Reserve Sank of India, the State Bank of India and other Banks. 

(e) Indigenous banking. 

(f) Money lending and Money lenders. 

(g) Holidays under the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. 

(h) Administration of the Indo-Pakistan Banking Agreement. 

(i) Functions of the Treasurer of the Charitable Endowments for India.- 

IV. Economic Advice 

10. Preparation of briefs and submission of material on financial and economic 
questions relating to India's participation in the United Nations and Allied 
Organisations (as for example. Economic and Social Council, Economic Commis¬ 
sion for Asia and Far East etc.). 


V. Budget 


11. Ways and means, 

12. Preparation of Central Budget, other than Railways Budget, including Sup¬ 
plementary, Excess Grants. 

13. Borrowing and Floatation of Market Loans by the Central and State Gov¬ 
ernments. 

14. Administration of the Public Debt Act, 

15. Administration of the Central Treasury Rules. 

16. Fixation of Interest rates, including Borrowing Rates, Productivity Test 

Rates etc. 

17. Accounting and Audit procedures including classification of transactions. 

18. Financial matters relating to partition, Federal Financial Integration and 
Re-organisation of States. 

19. Administration of the Contingency Fund of India Rules. 

20. Treasury bills including ad hoes to replenish the Central balances. 

21. Sterling pensions—transfer of responsibility to U.K. Government and 
actuai calculation of the liability involved. 

22. Conspectus of Central and State Government Budgets. 

23. Finance Commission. 

24. Small Savings, including the administration of the National Savings Organi¬ 
sations. 


VI, Planning 

25. Statutory grants to States provided for in the Constitution and ad hoc 
grants and loans to them for financing their development schemes and other ap¬ 
proved purposes. 

20. Local Taxation. 

27. State Finance. 

28. Borrowing of Public Bodies such as Corporations, Municipalities etc. 

29. Capital Budget. 

30. Co-operation In regard to important economic issues. 

31. Planning and Development. 

32. Taxation Enquiry Commission. 

33. Grants to the Indian Institute of Public Administration. 

34. Scrutiny of Central and State Legislation having financial and economic 
implications. 



Sec. 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


61 


VII. Sales Tax 

35. Administration of Central Sales Tax Act, 1956. 

36. Administration of Sales Tax Laws Validation Act, 1956. 

37. Replacement of Sales Tax by Additional Excise Duty. 

38. Matters relating to States Sales Tax coming up for President’s assent. 

39. Sales Tax administration in Union Territories. 

VIII. Insurance 

40. Policy relating to General Insurance; Administration of the Insurance Act, 
1938; Insurance Companies Association Pool; Subsidiaries of the Life Insurance 
Corporation. 

41. Policy relating to Life Insurance; Nationalisation of the Life Insurance 
business; Administration of the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1U50; Life Insu¬ 
rance Tribunal. 


IX. Corporations 

42. The Administration of Industrial Finance Corporation Act, 1948 and Reha¬ 
bilitation Finance Administration Act, 1948. 

43. State Financial Corporation under the State Financial Corporation Act. 
1951. 

44. The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India, Ltd. 

45. The Refinance Corporation for Industry. 

X. Stock Exchange 

46. Administration of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, 

47. Regulation of Stock Exchanges. 

XI. Capital Issues 

48. Control over the Issues of Capital by Joint Stock Companies, 

XII. Miscellaneous 

49. Administration of the Department of Insurance. 

B—Department of Expenditure 

1. Financial rules and regulations and delegation of financial powers. 

2. Financial sanctions relating to all Ministries and offices of the Government 
of India, which are not covered by powers delegated or conferred by the rules or 
by any general or special orders. 

3. Review of the staffing of Government establishments with a view to secur¬ 
ing economy. 

4. Advice to Ministries and Government Undertakings on Cost Accounts matters 
and attending to Cost investigation work on their behalf, 

5. Expenditure proposals relating to the Delhi Administration, 

6. Indian Audit and Accounts Department. 

7. Defence Accounts Department. 

8. Office of the Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer Hirakud Dam 
Project, Hirakud. 

9. Central Pay Commission. 

C— Department of Revenue 

1. All matters relating to Central Board of Revenue. 

2. Stamp duties on bills of exchange, cheques, promissory notes, bills of lading; 
letters of credit; policies of insurance; transfer of shares, debentures, proxies and 
receipts, 

3. Supply and distribution of all kinds of stamps. 

4. All questions relating to income-tax (except questions relating to the In¬ 
come-tax Appellate Tribunal), corporation tax, capital gains tax, excess profits 
fax, business profits tax and estate duty, wealth tax, expenditure tax and gift tax. ; 
and also questions relating to Railway Passenger Fares Act, 



^62 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II 


5. Administration of excise in the Union Territories i.e. all questions relating 
to: — 

(a) Alcoholic liquors for human consumption. 

(b) Opium, Indian hemp and narcotic drugs and narcotics. 

6. Medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol, or any substance 
included in 5(b), 

7. Opium, as regards cultivation, manufacture and sale for export, 

8. International agreements relating to dangerous drugs and their implemen¬ 
tation. 

9. All matters relating to Customs excluding those relating to Tariff Policy 
(i,e. Indian Tariff Act, Tariff Board, tariff valuations; tariff protection to Industries, 
land customs policy, and Inter-Commonwealth tariff preferences); but including 
duties on goods imported or exported by sea, land or air; prohibitions and restric¬ 
tions oq imports and exports Imposed in the interest of revenue, and Interpreta¬ 
tion of the Customs tariff. 

10. All matters relating to Central Excise. 

11. All matters relating to pre-partition duty refund claims on salt. 

12. Subordinate Organisations; — 

(a) Income Tax Department; 

(b) Customs Department; 

(c) Central Excise Department; and 

(d) Narcotics Department. 

MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
A —Department of Agriculture 
PART I 

The following subjects which fall within List I of the Seventh Schedule to the 
Constitution of India; — 

1. Liaison with International Agri-organisations like Food and Agriculture Orga¬ 
nisation of the United Nations, handling of CARE goods concerning agriculture etc. 

2. Participation in International conferences, associations and other bodies con¬ 
cerning agriculture e.g. Commonwealth Agricultural Bureau, Commonwealth Fores¬ 
try Bureau, International Rice Commission, Indo-Paciflc Fisheries Council, Inter¬ 
national Institute of Refrigeration, International Dairy Federation, Asia-Pacific For¬ 
estry Commission, World Poultry Science Association and International Union for 
Conservation of Nature etc., International Hide and Allied Trades Improvement 
Society, England; and implementation of decisions made thereat. 

3. Convention on Locust Control. 

4. Plant Quarantine. 

5. Insurance (Crop and Cattle insurance). 

6. Industries the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament by 
Jaw to be expedient in public interest, as far as these relate to: — 

(a) Processing of certain agricultural products (Milk, Ghee, milk-powder and 
fruit) and refrigeration; 

.(b) Development of agricultural industries including machinery, fertilizer, 
seeds and cattle-feed with the limitation that in regard to the develop¬ 
ment of agricultural industries including machinery and fertilizer, the 
functions of the Ministry of Agriculture do not go farther than the 
formulation of demands and the fixation of targets; and 

(c) Shellac Industry. 

7. Fishing and fisheries, inland and marine, and processing of fish for industrial 
purposes, 

8. Fishing and fisheries beyond territorial waters (including Deep-Eea Fishing 
Station, Bombay). 

9. Fundamental research Including co-ordination and higher education In Agri¬ 
culture, Animal Husbandry, Dairying, Forestry and Fisheries. 

10. Co-ordination and determination of standards In institutions for higher edu¬ 
cation or research and scientific and technical Institutions in so far as It relates to 
Food and Agriculture including animal husbandry and dairying. 



Sec. S(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


63- 


11. Agricultural and Live-stock census. 

12. All India Services:— 

Indian Agricultural Service; Indian Forest Serivce. , 

13. Cesses for financing the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and the 
Commodity Committees other than those relating to Tea, Coffee and Rubber. 

PART II 

The following subjects which fall within List III of the Seventh Schedule to the 
Constitution of India (as regards legislation only); — 

14. Adulteration of Agricultural Products other than foodstuffs. 

15. Economic Planning (Agricultural Economics & Statistics). 

16. Professions (Veterinary Practice). 

17- Indian People’s Famine Trust. 

18. Pic-wr.tion of the Extension from one State to another of infectious or con¬ 
tagious di.H oses or pests affecting animals or plants including locusts. 

19. Price control of agricultural commodities except foodgrains, Sugar, Vanaspati, 
Jute, Cotton and Tea. 

20. Administration of Land Acquisition Act, 1894, and other matters relating to 
acquisition of land for the purposes of the Union. 

21. Recovery of claims in a State in respect of taxes and other public demands, 
including arrears of Jand revenue and sums recoverable as such arrears, arising 
outside that Slate. 


PART III 

For Union Territories the subjects mentioned in Parts I and II above, so far as 
they exist in regard to these Territories arid in addition the following subjects which 
fall within List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India: 

22. Agriculture including agricultural education and research protection against 
pests and prevention of plant diseases. 

23. Land, that is to say, rights in or over land, and tenures including the relation 
of landlord and tenant, and the collection of rents transfer and alienation of land 
and improvement and agricultural loans, excluding acquisition of non-agricultural 
land for buildings, towns planning improvements. 

24. Land revenue, including the assessment and collection of revenue, tne main¬ 
tenance of land records, survey for revenue purposes, and records of rights and ali¬ 
enation of revenues. 

25. Preservation, protection and improvement of stocks and prevention of 
animal diseases; veterinary training and practice. 

26. Forests—-Forest Policy; and all matters relating lo forests and Forest Ad¬ 
ministration in so far as Andaman and Nicobar Islands are concerned. 

27. Courts of wards, 

28. Duties in respect of succession to agricultural land. 

PART IV 


General and Consequential 

29. All matters relating to foreign aid received from foreign countries and In¬ 
ternational organisations in so far as agriculture and allied subjects are concerned 
Including all matters relating to assistance afforded by India to foreign countries’ 
In the field of agriculture and allied subjects. 


30. Agriculture and horticulture including (a) Irrigation for agricultural pur¬ 
poses, (b) Minor and emergency irrigation works Including tube-welis, 

31. Animal Husbandry, including (a) pounds and cattle trespass; (b) protection, 
of wild birds and animals; (c) cattle utilisation and slaughter. 

32. Agricultural Production—Grow more food and fodder. 


33, Land Reclamation, 


34. Development of Cotton and Jute. 

35. All India Soil and Land Use Survey. 

36. Financial assistance to State Soil Conservation and Forestry Development 
Schemes 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II 


-<54 


37. Fertilisers and Manures (Formulation of Demands, fixation of targets and 
■distribution of fertilisers). 

38. Administration of the Fertiliser (Control) Order, 1957, 

39. Agricultural Implements and Machinery. 

40. Organisation and development of Extension training In the country, 

41. Crop campaigns, crop competitions and farmers’ organisations. 

42. Agricultural markets and marketing and merchandise marks under the Agri¬ 
culture Produce (Grading and Marking) Act. 

43. Refrigeration and Cold Storage facilities for fish, potatoes, fruits and other 
■similar commodities. 

44. Schemes received from States and Union Territories for the settlement of 
landless agricultural labourers, 

45. Mechanised Farms. 

46. Matters relating to the following offices:— 

<i) Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. 

(ii) Directorate of Extension consisting of:— 

(a) Extension Training Unit; 

(b) Agricultural Information Unit; and 

(c) Farm Advisory Unit. 

(ill) Directorate of Marketing & Inspection, Nagpur. 

<lv) Directorate of Plant Protection Quarantine & Storage, New Delhi, 
fv) Directorate of Economics and Statistics, New Delhi. 

(vi) Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi. 

(vil) Central Tractor Organisation, New Delhi. 

(viii) Tractor Training & Testing Station, Budni (M.P.). 

,(ix) Central Potato Research Institute, Simla, 

(x) Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar and Mukteswar. 

(xi) Principal Post Graduate College of Animal Science, i.V.R.L, Izatnagar and 

Mukteswar. 

(xil) Regional Poultry Farm, Aarey Milk Colony, Bombay, 

(xlii) Regional Poultry Farm, P.O. New Bhubneswar; Delhi Cantt.; Kamlahi 
(H.P.) and Hassarghata (Mysore;. 

Ixiv) National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal. 

Ixv) Southern Regional Station of National Dairy Research Institute, Banga¬ 
lore. 

(xvi) Delhi Milk Scheme, West Patel Nagar, New Delhi. 

■<xvii) Forest Research Institute & Colleges, Dehra Dun and Southern Forest 
Rangers College, Coimbatore, 

<xviil) Forest Research Laboratory, Bangalore 

(xix) Delhi Zoological Park. 

(xx) Central Marine Fisheries Research Station, Mandapam Camp; Central 

Inland Fisheries Research Station, Barrakpore; Deep-Sea Fishing 
Station, Bombay; Central Fisheries Techonological Research Station, 
Cochin; Central Off-shore Fishing Station, Cochin; Central Oll-shore 
Fishing Station, Tuticorin; Central Off-shore Fishing Station, Vizaga- 
patnam, 

(xxi) Fisheries Extension Units at Calcutta, . Gauhati, Allahabad, Bhopal, 

Hyderabad, "Mandapam Camp, Karnal, Bangalore, Patna and Raipur. 

(xxii) Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack, 

(xxiii) Exploratory Tube-wells Organisation, New Delhi. 

(xxiv) Central Mechanised Farm, Suratgarh, 

(xxv) Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, Bhadruk, Lucknow. 

(xxvi) Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore. 

<xxvil) Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur. 

<xxviii) Scheme for Reclamation and Control of Rajasthan Desert, Jodhpur. 



Jtac. J(K)j. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


65 


(xxix) Soil Conservation research, demonstration and training Centres at 
Dehra Dun, Chandigarh, Kotah, Agra, Vasad; Bellary; Ootacamund 
and Chhatra (in the territory of Nepal). 

(xxx) Office of the Agricultural Attache. Embassy of India. Rome. 

(xxxl) Commonwealth Institute of Biological Control, Bangalore Station, 
Bangalore. 

47. Matters redating to the following organisations: — 

(1) Indian Central Cotton Committee, Bombay. 

(ii) Indian Central Jute Committee, Calcutta. 

(ill) Indian Central Sugarcane Committee, New Delhi, 

(iv) Indian Central Tobaceoo Committee, Madras, 

(v) Indian Lac Ce3s Committee. Ranchi. 

(vi) Indian Central Coconut Committee, Ernakulam. 

(vii) Indian Central Oil Seeds Committee, Hyderabad. 

(viii) Indian Central Arecanut Committee, Calicut. 

(ix) Central Council of Gosamvardhana, New Delhi. 

(x) National Livestock Committee, New Delhi. 

48. Offences against laws with respect to any of the subjects allotted to this 
Ministry. 

49. Inquiries and statistics for the purposes of any of the subjects allotted to 
•this Ministry. 

50. Fees in respect of any of the subjects allotted fo this Ministry except fees 
: taken In a court. 

B—Department of Food 

I —The following subjects which fall within List I of the Seventh Schedule to the 

Constitution of India 

1. Purchase of foodstuffs for civil and military requirements and their disposal. 

2. Operation of Indo-U,S. agreement on relief supplies, 1951 and other similar 
agreements and matters connected with the distribution of relief supplies coming 

■ thereunder. 

2. Participation in international conferences, associations and other bodies con- 
• cerning food, e.g., International Wheat Council, International Sugar Council and 
implementing of decisions made thereat, 

4. Entering iqto treaties and agreements with foreign countries and implement- 
•lng of treaties, agreements, conventions with foreign countries relating to trade 

and commerce in foodgralns and other foodstuffs. 

5. Hiring and acquisition of godowns for storage of foodgralns Including sugar; 
taking on lease or acquiring land for construction of fuodgrain godowns. 

6. Inter-State trade and commerce in respect of foodgralns and other food¬ 
stuffs including sugar and vanaspati. 

7- Industries, the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament by 
law to be expedient in public interest, as far as these relate to food processing 
industries, sugar and vanaspati (excluding development of igur and khandsarl). 

.II—The following subjects which fall within List III of the Seventh Schedule to 
the Constitution of India (as regards legislation only) 

8. Trade and commerce in and supply and distribution of foodgralns. 

9. Trade and Commerce in and the production, supply and distribution of sugar, 
vanaspati and foodstuffs other than foodgralns, 

10. Price control of foodgralns, foodstuffs, sugar and vanaspati. 

.Ill —For the subjects detailed in Parts I & II as well as the Food Administration 
of Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura and Islands of Andaman and 
Nicobar and Laccadive, Arnindivi and Minicoy. 

TV —General and Consequential .— 

11. Matters relating to the following offices:— 

(i) Subordinate Offices under the Department of Food, 



66 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II 


<il) Directorate of Sugar and Vanaspati, New Delhi. 

(iii) National Sugar Institute, Kanpur. 

12. Matters relating to the Development Council for Sugar Industry, New Delhi. 
IS. Offences against laws with respect to any of the subjects allotted to this 
Department. 

14. Inquiries and statistics for the purposes of any of the subjects allotted to 
this Department. 

15. Fees in respect of any of the subjects allotted to this Department except 
(fees taken in a court. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 
I—Union Business 

1. Union agencies and institutes for research or for the promotion of special 
studies in medicine and nutrition including all matters relating' to the:— 

(i) Central Research Institute, Kasauli. 

(ill The All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, Calcutta. 

(ill) The Antigen Production Unit, Calcutta. 

(iv) The Malaria Institute of India, Delhi. 

(v) The Central Drugs Laboratory, Calcutta. 

(vi) College of Nursing, New Delhi. 

(vii) Lady Reading Health School & Ram Chand Lohia Infant Welfare Centre, 

Delhi. 

(vlii) Hospital for Mental Diseases, Ranchi, 

(ix) Willingdon Hospital & Nursing Home, New Delhi. 

(x) Safdarjang Hospital, New Delhi. 

(xl) The Civil and Military Dispensary and the X-Ray Installation, Simla. 

(xil) The Dispensaries at Dum Dum and Santa Cruz Airports. 

(xiii) Medical Stores Depots and Factories. 

(xiv) B.C.G. Vaccine Laboratory, Gulndy. 

(xv) Demographic Training and Research Centre, Bombay. 

(xvi) Family Planning Training & Research Centre, Bombay. 

(xvii) Family Planning Training, Demonstration and Experimental Centre, 
Ramanagram. 

(xvili) Medical College, p ndicherry. 

(xix) Contributory ;Jth Service Scheme for Central Government Servants 

and membc.s of their families in Delhi and New Delhi; and 

(xx) Serologlsi and Chemical Examiner to the Government of India, Calcutta. 

2. Port quarantine (sea and air) seamen’s and marine hospitals and hospitals 
connected with port quarantine. 

3. Port and Air Port Health Organisations. 

4. Medical Examination of seamen. 

5. International sanitary regulations. 

G. World Health Organisation (WHO). 

7. United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF). 

8. Rockefeller Foundation and Ford Foundation. 

9. Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954. and the Central Food Laboratory^ 
set up thereunder. 

10. Higher training abroad in medical and allied subjects. 

11. Assistance under the Colombo and Point Four Programme. 

12. National malaria eradication programme. 

13. National Filarla control programme. 

14. Central Regional and Urban Planning Organisation. 



r wmaaKBvrxwot iindiaj 


6f b 

If««tnOTowCBdsiraa& twit r iiwonmitTim.AwKxaemrM -'W®p4>3E* ,; iK^sePktTi6F 

itlirosir ■ 

13, LocalGkiverTmFPntV fhbt 4s 4o *eSy, 4he ednSSltiitlt® 'ilia pbWera OI'iMiinlCipal 
Ce3Ep«*t¥>»*8 f^chidkg^IMh^aii^wScimaittiW <&?■- 
clt^gdhf: ^vvr ) %lf^cMwJfl^ai^^lWtftt^X -inaMM'eBiflnt ,tr(wt?, ifl&Htfi# Jwiawlfl 
and other local seli-Government administratiq^revehgly&jf [M’Q’W&hlftsi^sOfeYiMr! 
age panehayats, 

Af Wff# 

17. Delhi Development Authority. 

18. The Delhi Water SuppJjfi«ftndi#flWgLfSoSiS99fiaJ. fi)04(Kfti$» ftflHss J&fflh&Sal 
Corporation, Delhi. 

19. Master Plan^M$$hi,. 

20. Maternity and child welfare. 

21. Public health and sanitation; water,J$?py# 13 
and dispensaries. 

23. Burials and burial grounds; cremations and cne®fttj(gn t ^isunds. 

24, Inns and inn-keepers. 

.am- 

26. Scientific societies and associations pertaining to subject iVP. fdV%-i 

Ministry. 

27. Charitable and. re^i^-ep^p^i^tS .l^tA»iping,''t.d J iwbi<fct?T fo&tt' with ..in 

the Ministry. 1 - ‘ " ■ 


III—List of Business with which the C entrap Gotei(NMEN.t b # - I^fjr.A^VE 

capacity only for AafU.^.BpTH .LEOiiOATiys. m*d Exjcu^VE. c^-a- 

CITIES FOR All UNION TERHITdRrES. 

' Mi > 1 ' h ' ■■■• ■ . r P, : . ■ 

28. The medical profession and edy^t^n, 

2 9t. Ihe .nur^ug .profusion ao.<* .#&«<!# ; ,f%f$op v _ . 

30. The pharmape^^) p^^fpn^d .^a^pceji^l .education 

31. The dental profession air^i dental- e$ Ration. 

32. Homeopathy. 


l®W? !**?$!$■ dftfldj^ngy. 

. d4. Drugs RtftudATds. ; 

35. Objectionable advertisements relating to drugs and 'medicines. 

ioSB.uPhwhntfaonof.rthei^Kte^Jwn --fbom c P n ~ 

tagious diseases affecting human beings. 

37. Adulteration of foodstuffs and drugs. 

38. Indigenous system 

39. The Central Health Service. , Tt 

, , hOTpvui -* ?.or.‘.U, 

40. Development of land declared as ’devei 
lOpnfc«i*St t-Act.'; : 


-I t;i*'t 

iprrient areas’ under the Delhi Dev- 


IV—Miscei-laneous 
lu :: . " ?:<i'if:bn,.-o.l ,KU0Iu lit 

41. The Medical Council of India. 


BusiNfisA 


42, 

c «. AN«W*nMH* vf 

44. Red Cross except problems relating to fsarotectioft hf -priwBers of war and 
other war vvtebby^. 

45. Denial Council OFdrfdift. 

( 46. Indian Nrffsfng Codicil. 

47. : Phannaey .Council of Indio. 

48. Indian Pharmacopoeia ’Committee. 

40. B3G.<5.-Vacoinattpn against Tvrbereuiosis. 

50. Family'Planning. 



68 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


51. Concession of medical attendance and treatment for Central Government 
servants other than (1) those In Railway Service (11) those paid from Defence 
Services Estimates (.Hi) officers governed by the All India Service (M.A.) Rules, 
1054 and (iv) Officers governed by the Medical Attendance Rules, 1955. 

52. Medical Examination and Medical Boards for Central Civil Services (other 
than those controlled by the Ministry of Railways and those paid from Defence 
'Estimates excepting Civilian Services). 

53. Indian Red Cross Society. 

64. The Lady Hardinge Medical College and Hospital, New Delhi, and the 
Kalavatl Saran Children’s Hospital, New Delhi, 

55. The Central Council of Local Self Government, 

56. Vallabh Bhal Patel Chest Institute. 

57. U.N. Rehabilitation Centre for Crippled Children, Bombay. 

58. Spas and health resorts. 

69. Drinking water supply and sanitation. 

60. Collection and collation of Information with regard to local bodies, all States 
and Union Territories. 

61. Trachoma Pilot Project. 

62. Leprosy Control Scheme. 

63. Re-imbursement of customs duty on gifts of non-consumable medical stores 
received from abroad. 

64. The Indian Council of Medical Research, New Delhi. 

65. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. 

66. The Indian Cancer Research Centre, Bombay. 

67. Tata Memorial Hospital, Bombay. 

68. Chlttaranjan National Cancer Research Centre, Calcutta. 

69. Central Institute of Research on Indigenous Systems of Medicine, Jamnagar. 

70. Post Graduate Training Centre, Jamnagar. 

71. Physiotherapy Training Centre, King Edward Memorial Hospital, Bombay. 

72. Central Leprosy Teaching and Research Institute, Madras. 

73. All India Mental Health Institute, Bangalore. 

74. Nutrition Research Institute, Coonoor. 

75. Offences against laws with respect to any of the matters in the above list. 

76. Inquiries and statistics for the purpose of any of the matters in the above 
list. 

77. Fees in respect of any of the matters in the above list, but not including fees 
taken In any court. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 
Part I— Union subjects 

The following subjects which are relatable to specific provisions contained in 
the Constitution of India or fall within the scope of matters enumerated In List I 
of the Seventh Schedule thereto— 

1. Formation of new States, and alteration of areas, boundaries and names of 
existing States. __ 

2. Issue of notifications 0* elefetlon of the President and the Vice-President. 

3. (i) Grant of pardons, reprieves, suspension, remission or commutation of a 

sentence of death; and 

(il) Petitions for remission of sentences (other than death sentences) or for 
pardon from prisoners sentenced by courts In States for offences against 
any law relating to a matter to which the executive power of the Union 
extends. 

4 Issue of notifications of appointment and resignation of the Prime Minister 
and other Ministers and Parliamentary Secretaries of the Union. 

5. Rules for the authentication of papers in the name of the President. 

6. Matters relating to fhe elections and nominations to Parliament. 



Sac, 8(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


69 


7. Appointment, resignation and removal of the Chief Justice of India arid 
'Judges of the Supreme Court of India; their salaries, rights in respect of leave of 
absence (including leave allowances), pensions and travelling allowances. 

8. Issue of notifications of appointment, resignation and removal of Gover¬ 
nors/Lieut. Governors. 

0. Bills passed by legislatures of States (except Jammu & Kashmir) reserved 
by Governors for the consideration of the President; and prior consultation with 
the Central Government by State Governments as regards State Legislation. 

10. Prior approval of the President to the promulgation of ordinances by Go¬ 
vernors of States. 

11. Appointment, resignation and removal etc., of Chief Justices and Judges 
of High Courts in States; their salaries, rights in respect of leave of absence (in¬ 
cluding leave allowances), pensions and travelling allowances. 

12. Appointment of Lt.-Governors, Chief Commissioners, Judicial Commissioners 
and of Administrative and Judicial Officers in Union Territories. 

13. Regulations applicable to the Andamans, Nicobar, Laccadive, Minicoy and 
Amindivl Islands. 

14. (i) Scheduled Areas; 

(ii) Matters relating to autonomous districts of Assam excluding roads and 
bridge works and ferries thereon; and 

<iii) Regulations framed by the Governors of States for Scheduled Areas and 
for Tribal areas specified in Part ‘A’ of the Table appended to para¬ 
graph 20 of the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution. 

15. Inter-State Councils. 

16. Property accruing to the Union by escheat or lapse or as bona vacantia. 

17. Union Public Service Commission, 

18. Reservation of posts in services for certain classes of citizens, 

19. (i) Appointment, resignation etc., of Special Officer for Scheduled Castes 

and Scheduled Tribes etc.; and 

(il) Reports of the Special Officer, 

20. (I) Commission to report on the administration of Scheduled- Areas and the 

welfare of Scheduled Tribes; and 

(ii) Issue of directions regarding the drawing up and execution of schemes 
essential for the welfare of the Scheduled Tribes in the States, 

21. Reports of the Commission to investigate into conditions of backward classes. 

22. Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, ex-criminal Tribes and other Backward 
classes. 

23. (i) Appointment, resignation and removal of Chairman and Members of the 

Commission on Official Language; 

(ii) Report of the Commission (including matters connected with the exami¬ 

nation of the recommendations contained therein by the Committee 
of the Houses of Parliament); and 

(iii) Issue of directions of the President in regard to the language to be used 

for different official purposes of the Union. 

24. Special provision relating to the language spoken by a substantial propor¬ 
tion of the population of a State. 

25. Prior approval of the President for authorising the limited use of a language 
other than English in the proceedings in the High Court of a State. 

26. (i) Appointment, resignation etc., of Special Officer for Linguistic Minori¬ 

ties; and 

(ii) Report of the Special Officer. 

27. Matters relating to the Emergency Provisions of the Constitution (other 
than those relating to financial emergency), 

28. Recognition of Rulers of former Indian States and their successors and 
other matters relating to them and their families. 





left 




l: ri29i - .iCoihsttlu'titMS& | l ;l prbYifeft)rfS 1 -With bespbi't to the “State x>f Ja 

.' iTU J. 4 . * 14 . 'aiJ.'_ 4 -lJ«i.' 1 J tjU -' 1 


■••• juul Kashmir. 
Ml % MipjatW 


i-'i yi-«>uJisu uvihH i 'IJi vtiw±tji±^ * wi^ri me ►sattirC dJj. , 

dodo othferi inirttefS reiaftog to -that Statie excfudfaW lt(tW mt) 
of External'OWIftiffe- i£ Hmft'brhfecf." t" 

-l 3 $ 0 O s 98 c -ftJ 7 WiW s iS*S itOiArt)jde 3 K,jodJdh‘e; 4 ^i^itiMttPK-'HvltiW'rt#p^t‘^tq'^he 
States of Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Bombay. 

h y AL >: AriPft jKmmtinjifeMm and Jaagtt&os zraldtifegybo *he- Explosive Shb- 

uirq _bii 


32. 


0 rq uii 

IJr« 9 )S'®f slnteUigaraee •an d - the .’Del hi 1 ©pte Ola 1 tPSISffe-'iJStabirs'Mfftbrtt:' 

--“ ‘ ’ ?QfiS '■■' 

lOttf 


-o ■'$<\cf y&fm tiw odfcientibn;: ficar- jkp sente odoimebt««ti c ivftfft tef kiffejl rs^ 

Or the security of India; persons subjected to such detention. 


RosMjiCnmfeisteina-Twlfch.lQtlto laattntfrres'dtn jhdfci^'ifdsaeTe, iHtflatlfflghottest 
rntilijhJi'iWGtho iot«ri^ito®i?.dS!oahh^- i iJuatib»i«ftid:'*fe!tdf##i»es l ' 

Nations Organisatioti-SBiatorogstcntiiASfiejiii twsanono4wfe<i;hilSt%fi9 , >Bftid a oBi!b 

35 . Citizenship aatd-thBtiffaliBilliJni.! ; L . 

bn i3Ovi fcrhtflit:rprtitfa trodi Aarhigii'- andG.&smiTrfomr^attSi 4iduftfeie$, TiWiop 

of South Africa, or any other country to which the Reciprocity AtffldS>pplife'& ir 

37. Entry of persons, other than returning cmigratftS? H rbfti : iCMfe&nbiiwi A11 h 


u | , j yj, uujiuj *_/ mV* --> -- — 

countries, except, those to phich the Reciprocity Act appljes, ... 
' ini 3 £f; b Cftint n of ;; td^s'ancl ^ control of 

foreigners in India. , , . . 

l'n< 8 fR‘»€&&ify 5 & i) eri!&. Ih^e 'tor'^^l^h^m^irfn'afe fejr #djr 1 ih l India. 

' 3 r S 8 . fJepor&fibii 

41 . Repatriation to Pakistan of released Pakistani Prisers, ( 

42 . Lotteries organised hy the Government of India or the Government .fjf a 

11 ' 

43 Matters relating to the National /\aademy oL AdmiriMratioh, the Cehlral 
— • • — ” ^ ^ -■*■—i ■_^ Central 



44 . Census of population. 

46 General questions (other than thdsl which haV 6 a financial bearing) 

ment of Atomic Energy. 

g.> [<m.f jM;iU;eB0 relating to the organisation of the machinery &• Government of 
India, arid ’ IKcnffetmi at 'Iniithxetions. 



ment of India, , .■ 

-r^WliiiSfT r t» In&itth -AdhiWi^t^fr r 0 &Shyfe 3 int Hiding 

I.C.S. and I.P. 


l.Vv.u. auu -*-■-»• . 

-'^fltfhMi-Iitffih C^iJ'liisC s&d jUptary otSbtvWS; 

Br, r JJfi r .nn 9U ~ '] G_ lcv,/'Po.n-rcfJOrirq.ntTni 



encai HCraw acneme. 

52 . Industrial ManagenviM Fool. 



r qi(Wfb'ent) Scheme, 
Central ^Secretariat 

,the 


DO. IIIUUO UiCU - - , . ,, 

gpjMSifc 

wernmfefftf service. 1 . ■ .,. . . > . . . 

renditions of service (other than those which have a -fmandial bearing) 

^r^tr^eV’/onceSon (or tivil employ «fcr B«i «.'»ay ehtfloSaS: 








72 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II 


92. Compassionate allowance to dependents of mutiny veterans, 

93. Home Minister’s Discretionary Fund for the grant of relief to persons who 
served the nation by their work in political, social, philanthropic or other fields 
when they are in need of special assistance. 

94. Social and moral hygiene programmes so far as they relate to: 

(i) the administration of the Suppression of Immoral Traffic in Women and 

Girls Act, 1956; and 

(ii) the establishment and maintenance of Protective Homes. 

95. Beggary, juvenile vagrancy and other ‘care’ programmes. 

96. Prevention of the bringing into India of undesirable literature under 
Section 19 of the Sea Customs Act. 

97. Administration of the Notaries Act, 1952. 

98. Emergency Relief Organisation Scheme; development of fire services. 

99. Poisons. 


Part II— Concurrent Subjects. 


The following subjects which fall within the scope of matters enumerated in 
List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India (as regards legisla¬ 
tion only)— 

100. Criminal law. 

101. Criminal procedure. 

102. Preventive detention for reasons connected with the security of a State, 
the maintenance of public order, or the maintenance of supplies and services 
essential to the community; persons subjected to such detention. 

103 Removal from one State to another State of prisoners, accused persona 
and persons subjected to preventive detention for reasons specified in entry 102 
above. 

104. Vital statistics including registration of births and deaths. 

105. Newspapers, books and printing presses. 


Part IIP—Additional Subjects with regard to Union Territories : 

(i> For the Union Territories of Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur and, Tripura 

(a) The following subjects which fall within the scope of matters enumerated 
in List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India— 

106. Public order (but not including the use of the naval, military or air 
forces of the Union in aid of the civil power). 

107. Police, including railway and village police. 

108. Administration of justice, constitution and organisation of courts and fees 

taken therein. .... 

109. Prisons, reformatories, Borstal institutions and other institutions of a 
like nature and persons detained therein; arrangements with other States f r 
the use of prisons and other institutions. 

110. Constitution and powers of Delhi Municipal Corporation and the New 
Delhi Municipal Committee. 

111. Coordination of work in respect of the Master Plan and slum clearance 
in the Union Territory of Delhi, 

112. Delhi Fire Service. 

113. The Delhi Rent Control Act, .1958; and evictions in Delhi. 

114. Betting and gambling, 

115. General questions relating to public services. 

116 Court Fees and Stamp duties in the Union Territories. 

117', Offences against laws with respect to any of the matters in List II of the 
Seventh Schedule to the Constitution. 

11 R Jurisdiction and powers of courts with respect to any of the matters in 
List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution. 

119 Fees in respect of any of the matters in List-II of the Seventh Schedule to 
tto ConStutmn but not including fees taken m any Court 





S«o S (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


73 


120. Extension of State Acts to the Union Territories. 

121. Inquiries and statistics for the purpose of any of the matters in List II of 
the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution. 

122. General questions relating to administration on subjects other than those 
dealt with in other departments. 

(b) All matters enumerated in List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution 
of India— 

(ii) For the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. 

123. All matters except forests, education, road and bridge works and ferries 
thereon. 

(iii) For the Union Territories of Laccadive, Minicoy and Admindivi Islands 

124. All matters relating to these Islands. 

MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 
I—Radio. 

1. All business connected with All India Radio (except issuing of B.R. licences) 
embracing news services in the home programmes, programmes for foreign 
countries and Indian overseas, radio journals, researches In the field of broadcast 
engineering, monitoring of foreign broadcasts, programme exchange and trans¬ 
cription services, television, supply of community receiving sets to State Govern¬ 
ments under the community listening scheme etc. 

2. Development of broadcasting throughout the Union, installation and main¬ 
tenance of Radio stations/transmirters. 

II— Films. 


3. Production and distribution of documentaries and newsreels and other films 
and film scripts for internal and external publicity. 

4. Legislation under entry 00 of the Union List, viz., “Sanctioning of Cinemato¬ 
graph Films for Exhibition.” 

5. Administration of the Cinematograph Act, 1952, which includes:— 

(i) Examination and certification of cinematograph films for publie exhibi¬ 

tion by the Central Board of Film Censors; and 

(ii) Regulation of exhibitions by means of cinematograph in Union Terri¬ 

tories. 

0. Grant of State Awards for films produced in India. 

7. Grants to Children’s Film Society. 

8. Liaison with the film industry. 

9. Promotion of the export of cinematograph films for public exhibition. 

10. Implementation of the recommendations of the Film Enquiry Committee. 

Ill— AavERTismo and Visual Publicity. 


II Production and release of all display advertisements of the Government of 
India through the media of press, posters, folders, calendars, blotters, leaflets, 
hoardings, cinema slides, etc,, also release of classified advertisements on behalf of 
'the Government of India, 


12. Preparation of media lists. 


IV— Press. 

13. Presentation and interpretation of the policies and activities of the Govern¬ 
ment of India through the medium of the Press. 

14. Advising Government on information problems relating to the Press, keeping 
Government informed of the main trends of public opinion as reflected in the 
Press and liaison between Government and the Press. 

15. Publicity to and for the Armed Forces. 

16. General conduct of Government relations with the Press excluding the 
administration of Sections 99A to DOG, Criminal Procedure Code. 

17, Administration of the Press and Registration of Books Act, 1867 relating 
to Newspapers, 

18, Administration of the Newspaper (Price and Page) Act, 1950, 

19, Implementation of the recommendations of the Press Com.missJoff, 



('SITE1 iOftlEJTZ: Of; :WDIlti BXTHACraiJXNARY 


[PATKiB 


V—PtmucAiTioKa. 

. j BQ.- Broductjoa,. sale aini <U«taibutionifflt popular pamphlets,, boafcs a 
on matters of national importance for internal as., Well as external .pul 


dUfnals 
tv 1 , wfth 


on matters of national importance for mtBrnahasjWeR.asextfinmt.puhiimy. wren, 
a.,mew to imparting tp the general public at home and abroad, up-to-date, and 
Correct information about India: 

. VI-^liffiiuuftCaoAKDi figFESrftwx., 

21. (i) To assist the Media Units of the I & B Ministry in collection 1 ,- Compilation 
and prepatotital of materia! invabhng remarch into! publish ed; works etc.; and 

eoi <Cil) rBuiiding.-.up.-ot a compbndiumuf know lodge bnimportanti.subjects and to 
prepare guidance and background notes on current and other topics for Wtft-MW 
-M<.m Mttdw .Units of the Ministry. 

22. Publicity for the Five Year Plan* 

23. Attached apd_ Subordinate Organizations. 

(a) MM&W&sF . . 


(b) Films Division. 


(ao-mond) ■ S&tVWS Bdsffd 1 of Flint' • GehsOrti, - 

totnPa-asa information Bureau, 

YfT i Pdtl^ati6'ns^BlVfeloh. 

(g) Research and Refereiijj^ fjlVMbn; 1 
ffif 6Wce 

(i) Five Year Plan Publicity Unit. ... 

MINISTRY OF IRftr£iTION AND POWER. 

a Central Water and Power'R<:?eiiW'l! St'atf&h. Piioiri: 1 
a! ( Daino^a'f J i/alie^y ‘ 8brpolatloh: ‘ 

;BxTht!c inter-#t*te .Water s 


fl. Regulation and kteveVnpmem MithtertSWw WYpW'ym4} W¥%i?jaileyir l ° ™ e 
WfcWit r W #htah! ■ gutahoUegrainborn *ndo«tev$ogflgHiifi ih.'UW-h. ) of lhe 

Union. 

7, The National ProjectibfifcimtfMiotJftniff^wqTa^h'^^dt. 
of River Valley Projects, 

B. Electricity (Generation, transmission 

llifcieeoti^uftegtrMi^ ■. 

11. Development g electee sup^ industry. 

12. Central Electricity Authority: 

IB. The Electricity (Supply) Act, IMS. 

IC. Applied research in power supply industry, 

17 Power schemes in Union Territories^ ~-i 

-'nMomttot PW Poww;^ House ^Project, 

Chipllma). mil In r 

<llk.iCtmtesi Board of.Irrigation- and Power. 

! 20/lM&4^kiS»nn wahpr d&tnrte..- . 

21. Co-operative approflgff'bli dndiwW 

Pakistan, 

s.di2i n ^d6h'hk:al apfistatteofor imigfttjom and, powefi"d e lYi el W?iP^' 1 

.23 Internatioiihi'hUhittshms add 1 ebriltereiifces: relattog-m, imgtfw 1 end PPW&- 

'^; :, fco-orainaUon dif dower add’ ttiiwfohdwunieafionraiiltes.,: 

25, Tungabhedw Project falling within the control of Tungabhadttr Board;- 

26. Central Flood Control Hoard. 





t£*jk*q(U)] TBffi GtA&EffTE.®F.- IJffZCAl EXBHaOSDIirAR’i Afj 


27 , Ganga River GoramiEsipn (Floods)-- 

2(3. Braiirftpu.tra River- Cownisaion (Floods); 

29 J Mbrttfr.WeSt' Riders Cammfegioft fFW 6 d.< 0 . 


' ' 30 ? Certthttl India River's" Colriitt$ii<Jii' {Floods} 

Si, Fontihuing" scfierheS under the pfdgr&rnme for permanent improvemMitupf 
scarcity areas. 

3 ± I’ublfc cooperation in tile ex'ecUtiqti of fiver, valley projects. 


aBic^.fundamental apR-applied research oo.~rj.ver, valley projects, and flood 


34 . Flood control schemes in Union Territories. 


33. Medium and. hiajor Irrigation kBhnmes, cff Union Terrilosios (lie/scHemea 
costing over Rs~.,10.4alfps)'- 

36. The Muslim Wokfs Act,. 1<J54. , - 

WL The, Delhi Muslim Wakfk Ach -19®*, 


38. Work in respect of Wakf properties under the Adniinistratfon 1 Of 'M/icifee 

, , #' ,.i ^ INrs , m y ^ TiA bot 1'R A^i6 ' 


-PAtfr I—UNtoN BunjwiTn,' 


T. In 1 respect’ 0 T ; Whorl kailway*^—paj'thhrrt of\Vag& trade* dlkjMtfes, houfs of 
'rwcrk'-ftfuniMirriplwowi hooSdvffltoflJlPSJJTOe VacHoti&s ASi aftdfiWAffllSWMf'Sl^rtifeloy- 
ment of children. 

2 . In respect of docks—dockyardi'JJdBOUfcs • 

3 . Regulation jo« Kataoar'Hndr sataty lftlanine* jenfci c olUteittei 


Fart II—Concurrent SubjCCTs . 1 


4 . Facto^. low t ^ 

and sickness insurance, including invalidity pensions, old age pensions; improve¬ 
ment of working conditions in fip^pjes^apfeepiGyy-industrial undertakings. 


0 . Unemployment insurance. 

7 . Trade unions; inaustriaf ahd'lhbduf disptitesl 




iplo; 

r $ E 


and, nnempli 
is .cipnl lo IBiSm 

itWfeimfflwFBWfe 


iPW'mm'*;,-. 

Part III—Additional Business for 
‘ iir Items meiiRonlidHn i-’art IF above. 


jpftoyspt^tofiiifei^LBSxiinwasn^Tisft idtiracairtHjnsciw a* toawxuieBfka& 

' Lufifnwtnn 439 Pmcto Ip- H uiNo-Tia •■•aMavm i 1 1 ' 

12 . The 1 implementing of treaties and agreements with other l&wrtrjbt&u I 
■Iftc (j)fl«neos Tefflatnat itej 

'w m 'b«of &srmk a?w 

16 . Jurisdiction of powers of all courts (except the^Rupremp, Cpurtj. 

: >p pRr Yl^MYStftt ANEOlfti ‘ BlrtWiMSB! - 
l 1 ?. Employment Exchanges. 

W )Ss kmm‘ lor Trai ping. ^-TnatoictorerCrof terpen,, technicians, at. forep-tfiiv, and 
#WK«®VWPW lpVeR,feot^^ ( 3nR^,awi abroad,-Apprentice Training.- 
10." international 1 Bib oar Organisation.. • 

20 . Tripartite Labour ConfereheeR.. 

21 . War Injuries (Compensation Insurance) Act, . 4848 >ihnan$clpE£nifli. ' 






76 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II 


22. Administration of Essential Service (Maintenance) Ordinance. 

23. Administration of Laws connected with safety and welfare in mines arid of 
the organisations of the Chief Inspector of Mines, Coal and Mica Mines Welfare. 

24. Administration of Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948, 
Indian Dock Labourers Act, 1934 and the Schemes and Regulations framed there¬ 
under. 

25. Administration of the Tea Districts Emigrant Labour Act and the Organisa¬ 
tion of the Controller of Emigrant Labour. 

26. Social Security measures, including the administration of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, the Employees Provident Funds Act, the Minimum Wages Act; 
and Coal Mines Provident Fund Act. 

27. Administration of labour laws in Central Sphere undertakings. 

28. Labour Statistics; Organisation of Director, Labour Bureau. 

29. Organisation of Chief Labour Commissioner and constitution and administra¬ 
tion of Central Government Industrial Tribunals, Central Government Labour 
Courts, National Industrial Tribunal, 

30. Organisation of Chief Adviser Factories, including Central Labour Institute 
Productivity and TWI Centres and Regional Museums of Safety, Health and 
Welfare 

31. Plantation Labour and administration of Plantations Labour Act. 

32. Recruitment, posting, transfer and training of Government Labour Officers. 

33. Administration of the Working Journalists (Conditions of Service) and 
Miscellaneous Provisions Act. 

34. Schemes regarding workers' education. 

35. Schemes regarding workers’ participation in management. 

30. Discipline in Industry. 

37. Constitution of Wage Boards for individual Industries. 

38. Regulation of working conditions of motor transport workers. 

39. Evaluation of the implementation of labour laws in the country. 


MINISTRY OF LAW. 


A—Department of Legal Affairs. 


1. Advice to Ministries on legal matters, including interpretation of laws, legal 
proceedings, and conveyancing. 

2. Attorney General of India, Solicitor General of India, and other Central 
Government law officers, law officers of the States whose services are shared- by 
the Ministries of the Government of India. 

3 Conduct of cases in the Supreme Court on behalf of the Central Government 
and on behalf of the Governments of the States participating in the Central 
Agency Scheme. 

4 Reciprocal arrangements with foreign countries for the service of summons 
in civil suits, for the execution of decrees of civil courts, for the enforcement of 
maintenance orders, and for the administration of the estates of foreigners dying 
in India intestate. 

5 Authorization of officers to execute contracts and assurances of property on 
behalf of the President under Article 299(1) of the Constitution, and authoriza¬ 
tion of officers to sign and verify plaints or written statements in suits by or against 
the Central Government. 


0. Central Legal Service. 

7, Treaties and agreements with foreign countries in matters of civil law. 


8 Elections to Parliament, to the legislatures of States, to the offices of Presi¬ 
dent and Vice-President; the Election Commission. 

9 Enlargement of the jurisdiction of Supreme Court and the conferring thereon 
of supplemental powers; persons entitled to practise before the Supreme Court; 
references to the Supreme Court under Article 143 of the Constitution of India. 


10. Persons entitled to practise before High Courts. 


11, Admiralty jurisdiction. 

12. Income-tax Appellate Tribunal. 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


77 


13. Special tribunals constituted under the Criminal Law Amendment 
Ordinance, 1943. 

14. Legal aid to the poor. 

B— Legislative Department. 

1. The drafting of Bills, including the business of the Draftsmen in Select 
Committees; drafting and promulgation of Ordinances and Regulations; enact¬ 
ment of State Acts as President’s Acts whenever required, scrutiny of statutory 
Rules and Orders. 

2. Constitution Orders. 

3. Publication of Central Acts, Ordinances and Regulations; translation of 
Centra] Acts and Ordinances into Hindi. 

4. Compilation and publication of unrepealed Central Acts, Ordinance and 
Regulations, of general statutory Rules and Orders, and other similar publications. 

5. Law Commission. 

The following subjects, which fall within Lists III of the Seventh Schedule to 
the Constitution of India (as regard Legislation only): 

6. Marriage and divorce; infants and minors; adoption; wills, intestate and 
succession; joint family and partition. 

7. Transfer of property other than agricultural land, registration of deeds and 
documents. 

8. Contracts, but not including those relating to agricultural land. 

9. Actionable wrongs. 

10. Bankruptcy and insolvency. 

11. Trusts and trustees, Administrators-General and Official Trustees. 

12. Evidence and oaths. 

13. Civil Procedure including limitation and arbitration. 

14. Legal profession. 

15. Charitable and xeligious endowments and religious institution®. 

MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS (RAILWAY BOARD) 

1. Government Railways —AH matters, including those relating to Railway 
revenues and expenditure but excluding Railway Inspectorate and Railway Audit. 

2. Non-Government Railways —Matters in so far as provision for control by the- 
Ministry of Railways (Railway Board) is provided in the Indian. Railways Act, 
or in the contracts between the Government and these Railways, or in any other 
statutory enactments namely, regulations in respect of safety, maximum and 
minimum rates and fares, etc. 

MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION. 

*1. Camps for displaced persons from East Pakistan. 

*2. Relief for displaced persons (including supplies of medicines, food, clothing 
and other necessities). 

*3. Rehabilitation of displaced persons. 

*4. Assistance to displaced persons from East Pakistan in setting up business 
or industry including provision of settlement on land. 

*5. Housing of displaced persons. 

*6. Setting up .of new industries in displaced persons’ townships and colonies 
and places Where there are heavy concentrations of displaced persons from East 
Pakistan for providing employment. 

*7. Matters relating to grants-in-aid to educational, medical and cultural insti¬ 
tutions. 

*8. Training and employment of displaced persons from East Pakistan. 


*As regards rehabilitation matters in States, the Central Government is con¬ 
cerned mainly with questions, of policy in respect of subjects marked with asterisk 
and is not directly concerned with administrative and executive details which are 
the functions of State Governments, except where camps, rehabilitation colonies, 
educational institutions, training centres, etc. are directly administered by the Cen¬ 
tral Government. 





ffl »: !.T r ^Tnjfe 


7 ^' 


M 

ttfc.-Rf. 9 


:. # fl Plfe^enmt of' #wft¥ttee property. t 

10. Evacuee Interest (Separation) Act, 1951. 

11. The Transfer of Evacuee Deposits Act, 1954. 

12. Displaced Persons (Debt® Adjustment) Act, 1951, 

O-tiatipfs ■ v ■ 11 * i ’’ and immpv- 

.. m -'/ : 

14, Verification of displaced persons’ claims for the immovable DtoOBifty letiUnfi 
West Pakistan. 

.’?•?!'> .i*’ ■ ' verged qlaims .and payment of rehabii)tat)on grants ip die- 

i i— • .: ■ •$&$t or immovable propw^y ItESh- 

and -disposal of .government built and- evacuee properties. 

viifflli VKiM?atfaSnc and:.payment of claims of;'displaced Gavemnneflt-, senvaotfloft 
undivided Provinces and servants of States and local bodies Jp,;rgtyp?£t of pensions, 
provident tpn^s, leave, ^salary pnd security deposits, 

i8; KetfabiilVation oi’ mi'gbp&s If6n >tirikb bjt & t&Mjp 

tpir, _ t . . . ' ' 

'' r i9.-i5tlhdtity , atfalrs’& Efeist Pakistan anti' 
f^on). ^ f . . ■ [ '' 

20' 6andakaranya Scheme-Integrated' developmeftt "ot Daiiclakafany'a at^bfjW 
the rehabilitafipp, of JEftSt Pakistan displaced persons, and welfare pf tribara. 


wimm* 'yfyiXfiiAxi. awm# 


1. Advice to the GoWrtarMt'.o8»to<ttaiant-an eabraaisttttffitl. BBseBrch, 

■other than nuclear science, atomic energy and mathematic^. 

2 . Ad-hoc 

and atomic energy, in Universities and research InstltutTons. 

3. Grants toCrWAte*® TiAYMtibhd, a'dAAlfliAHts'flClaUtfnei'lMti/.BCleiitiftc bodies 

. f rp# y ar ( * r: jWk&atato# ^nja^hetp^cf^duolf^t; pd 

ntitmfc energy h bnu 


7. Vljnan Mandira. 

8. Central Board of Geophysics. 

9. Indian National 

10. Survey of India. te; 3 

W.°MA«aP# 9 X!nifi r S!rifi^ 

12. Zoological Survey of India. 

mi 

14. National Research DevoteffiP^ih 

15. Compilation of National Atlas. 

h@36fehib fl Rf» 

'•teaadrKf'fir ;8tWM*d BbT&fWfh 
•energy, 

T5L lAwntWi SftSpiMbiBfrlihSiiilMiiabi/SeiW 0 ^'£9W£5?SPrB 
18. Pan-Indian Ocean Science Association. 

16. R^*sft?ol^aWWfer*P‘'c,jd > 

Om™ ,4 ^ ¥K s .ti’-v>- . 
iaaicExJJiwsitofiiiJ-jdttvejhiwhbnt 
■n *0 Ubtr,, rI*}4V)j* n.ai tajaija GdiieSb'. 

. ’ , 'lUtl .Tip'' 

g< ^o4fi Cj 

.24. Regional Schools of Printing. 


M 



Ttjrfcoiftsti, |%CAUw. 




fc<Xftj3i|ll)] THB/flABETMl DT ZHDfA EKTHAORDIN^HY 


7$ 


25. Grap^in^^M Garepjrmieixtirlnfettfertlttesi non-Governintent institu¬ 

tions. professional bodies and technical tostttutlqqs of Union Territorles-for tech¬ 
nical education. Grants-iri-Md for post graduate studies in basic Sciences: gfimts- 
in-aid fo*eiW VetoprtlSdt- -df and tcebhcdGgy; 

grants-ln-aid for funda^efl^,! S'fiftefiJKrii . , ln!fs<adiffig{afato4£»riteoi&gyi emits t«-in¬ 
dividuals for fundamental c^j^fch. 

2(5. Delhi Polytechnic. 

27. Indian School of Mines and 

28. Indian Institutes of Technol^^^^^^r^g^^;^?^^ ^la^-aa. 

institutions tiCal lraining facilities ^ffiu s ^ d ?^T<f?f 

32. Recognition of profcssional/techiliS8? dr '(^?iffii ! i(.i3& ,rI0 j|'pi? ad feu'TE^^^ of 
recruitment to posts under Government of India. ■ I 1 -' ’ 1 ' ’ ■* 

32, National Resea#«toPSt»ds9SSsa9f>fe Q&d FdS<jW4hl$i.'' 

25. Scientific and technological scholarships',]' fftftef' > 't}iap /rating. tq. De¬ 
partment of Atomic Energy. •!•"'" '5 . 4 ~ 

c iOT.'iTfeartufits' Training jTfogWfnrpe ripf] teChfjfiete ? insffttifrffins. ~ 

37. Holding of Foreltfji J fotkfhina l fiorKf in''fheflelcls 6f'prbfesslorial' a'nd technical 
education In India, v 1 

38. Conduct of National jptplwmand HIattonsl 1 Gartiflctite Examinations of the 
All India Council for Technical Education. 

f ; 3 9Arc h Jfe cA rigy arid 'archaeological muieums. :1 

40. The Ancient ap.d .Historical Monuments .and Archaeological Sites apd Re¬ 

mains (Declaration of Natidhal ttnporfance) Act, 1951; Ancient Monnmerits Pre- 
bervafttoh Art, HMM>. . " ’ ■■■ • * >.. > •.'• 4 

41. Grants to Universities and historical societies for excavation woift, 

42. International Conventions for the protection of cultural property In the 
event of armed conflict. 

43. History of Freedom Movement. 

44. Indian Copyright Act and International ,Qop,ypr(feipns .ifyi 

43. Delivery of Books (Public Libgacieg-) • Afi 1W4 iPje^sijapd (©Bgistrpition of 
Books (in so far as supply of books arid cafaipjniqg to merpeafc&l Gpveromcnt is 
concerned). r 1 '* '■" f - v ‘ 

40, Sahitya, Lallt Kala and Sangeet Natak, Ateafleitiiel. 

47. Promotion of fine arts. 


48. General clwfeloptawtitoof Miswnimsk 

49. National MuseumtdNwbl DtttU. ’.'it" 

0fft5fl.;iNatfio)tmiirGalleaTptrif'iMt)dern.' Abt.’Naw Delhi.;: 

51. Indian Museum, Calcrittk. ' 

52. Victoria Memoriil ■-feWfctfttte. 

IWllSri i 'Wa¥MiW(ii'fa7 , £^hl, f " , 

54. Acquisition of Indian and foreign art objects. 

55. T^y^e^pr^pf.^tiadi^ep, , 

56. Institute of tndolcjgyj. t „ . r . ,. ( . 

, ,57 - v Library. Hyderabad. 

58. • -al areas and Theatres In State Capitals. 

„ ^ngneiai,pisipstaweOi to authors arid lartiats Jp.andjge&t circumstances.. r 
: to. 1 ChdMtiCS arid Chai'Ittfblte . institutions, tbriiritiei : and Hell clous Endowments 
pertaining to ■M.iftjects dealt Vdfh In’’this Ministry'. 

61. National Library, Calcutta; Central Reference Library, Calcutta; Raza (Libr¬ 
ary, Rampur. 

62. Development of Modern Indian languages. 

63. Publication of Rate Manuscripts, 





8o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II 


64. Grants to all-India cultural institutions and their strengthening. 

65. Cultural grants to Indo-foreign cultural societies. 

68. Cultural agreements and friendship treaties with foreign countries. 

67. International Students’ Houses in India and abroad. 

08. Distribution of gift books received from abroad. 

69. Pen-Friends. 

70. Indian Council for Cultural Relations. 

71. Appointment of Cultural Attaches abroad. 

72. Visit of Cultural Delegations etc. to India, sponsored and unsponsored. 

73. Individuals (including cultural lecturers) sponsored by Government for 
visits abroad. 

74. Presentation of books to foreign countries. 

75. Establishment of libraries abroad. 

70. Indian Office Library, 

77. Translation of Indian classics into foreign languages. 

78. Exchange of official publications with foreign Governments and institutions 
•and agreements for such exchanges. 

79. Presentation of India art objects abroad. 

80. Scholarships, including those offered b'y foreign Governments and foreign 
agencies in respect of subjects dealt with by this Ministry, 

MINISTRY OF STEEL, MINES AND FUEL 
A— Department op Iron and Steel 

1. Steel plants In the public and private sectors, the rerolling Industry and 
feiTO-alloys including all future development. 

2. Development of ore mines, coal washerles etc., for steel plants, 

3. Production, distribution, prices imports and exports of Iron and steel and 
ferro-alloys. 

B —Department of Mines and Fuels 

1, Administration of the following offices: 

(a) Office of the Coal Controller. 

(b) Office of the Coal Board. 

(c) Office of the Coal Grading Board. 

(d) Geological Survey of India. 

(e) Indian Bureau of Mines, 

(f) Oil & Natural Gas Commission. 

2. Production, supply, distribution and prices of coal and coke. 

3. National Coal Development Corporation Ltd,, Ranchi. 

4, Neyveli Lignite Corporation Ltd,, Madras, and matters connected with the 
exploration of lignite deposits In other parts of India. 

5. The Indian Mining and Construction Co. Ltd., Calcutta, 

6. Setting up of synthetic oil plant and low temperature carbonisation plant* 
for the production of smokeless domestic coal, 

7, Coal Council of India, 

8, Administration of the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety) Act, 1952. 

9. Administration of the Coal Grading Board Act, 1955. 

10. Administration of Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition & Development) Act, 
1957. 

11, Regulation of mines and mineral development under the Mines & Minerals 
(Regulation and Development) Act, 1957 and other Union laws including questions 
concerning various States and incidental business in respect of these. 

12, Mineral Advisory Board. 

13. Orissa Mining Corporation Ltd., Bhubneswar. 

14, Production, supply, distribution and prices of petroleum and petroleum 
products. 



Eve. 8(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY gj 

15. Exploration for and exploitation of oil resources in India including the 
setting up of participatory projects e.g., Indo-Stanvac Petroleum Project, Oil India 
Ltd., etc, 

16. Setting up of oil refineries in India. 

17. Production of refinery products by: 

(i) Standard Vacuum Ri'flnery Company, Bombay. 

(ii) Burmah-Shel] Refinery, Bombay. 

(iii) Caltex Refinery Visakhapatnam; and 

(iv) Assam Oil Company Ltd., Digboi. 

18. Setting up of lubricating oil plants. 

10. Setting up of a distribution organisation for the sale of petroleum and 
petroleum products. 

20. Utilisation and establishment of industries based on natural gas and refinery 
by-products e.g., petro-chemicals, fertilizers, power-generation stations etc. 

21. Petroleum Consumers Advisory Council. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS 
A— Departments of Communications and Crvn. Aviation 

1. Implementation of treaties and agreements relating to matters dealt within 
the Department of Communications and Civil Aviation, with other countries. 

2. Posts and Telegraphs, including Telephones, Wireless and other like forms 
of communications, Post Office Savings Bank (Administration), Post Office Certi¬ 
ficates (Administration), Post Office Life Insurance Fund (Administration) and 
Indian Telephone Industries, Bangalore. 

3. Meteorological Organisation. 

4. Aircraft and air navigation; provision of aerodromes; regulation and organi¬ 
sation of air tiaffle and ol' aerodromes (excepting sanitary control of air naviga¬ 
tion) . 

5. Beacons and other provisions for the safety of aircraft. 

6. Carriage of passengers and goods by air. 

7. Corporations established under the Air Corporations Act, 1953. 

8. Railway Inspectorate. 

9. Offences against laws with respect to any of the matters in this list. 

10. Inquiries and statistics for the purpose of any of the matters in this list. 

11. Fees in respect of any of the matters in this list but not Including fees 
taken in any court. 


R—Department of Transport 

I —The following subjects which fall within List I of the Seventh Schedule to the 

Constitution of India: — 

1. Maritime shipping and navigation; provision of education and training for 
the merchantile marine. 

2. Lighthouses and lightships. 

3. Major ports, i.e., the ports of Calcutta, Bombay, Madras, Visakhapatnam, 
Cochin and Kandla. 

4. Compulsory insurance of motor vehicles. 

5. Administration of the Road Transport Corporations Act, 1950. 

6. Highways declared by or under law made by Parliament to be national 
highways. 

7. Shipping and navigation including carriage of passengers and goods on 
inland waterways declared by Parliament by law to be National waterways as 
regards mechanically propelled vessels; the rule of the road on such waterways. 

8. Ship buildings (Public sector). 



8 *f> TRTABKrWDMa TO»r WHMC l E^arKA'CTKiniURVl KT r ([Slfti IT? 

- 1 1 ~~~ ~ ~-‘ — ~ . 11 1 - _ '-tr“TT.'.'" T1 i 1 fT r*~"*‘r—~ ~ ‘ _ _— . - ""-~"-^ r - 


nL+i-Ia.'respect erf tlte ftfriMoki'Tefrittfftesi 

9. Hoads other than national highways. 

10. Tramways within municipal limit?. 

11. Inland waterways and traffic therein, 

12. Administration of tfea. MStop : yagJbwftP3 Act, (tOSib And/ taxation of gnolor 
vehicles. 

13. Vehicles other than mechanic^^r, pro^lecjl vebiplqs, 


ho. 


Ill —Other subjects not included 'untler'thc 'preceding headings: 

14. Central Road Fund., .... 

°an& research 1 peftainitig J tb^roacl works/ 


n4ftaJRo|Wi3 , "« i» £< "-“ fty j^^^.tSftvwwnsnt, 

fd3 of i „ - r - f >toa ^ pt.the, ^^th ^licdvl^.to tSp^oftsti- 


mcludiitfi to 
A and " 
tution. 

17. Motor vehicles legislation. 

■ 18. Legisla|jiW'!i30\a)inHIitti./iSW!PB4nff. Wtd" J tts&ig&tii® m TiRlOTd waterways as 
regards mechanically propelled vessels and the carriage of passengers and goods 
on inland waitu'W^ys. ,. 

19. Tourist traffic development. ' 

1 ‘- 20. Hanning of ; rq?d and inland waterways Iropyport. ‘ 

21, Development of township pf (^ndRidharo. 

.. Legislation relating to and co-prdinatrQn :of -the development pf PPPUf. 

Pjs.,, .... ... 

23. Centralised arrangements for the servicing and repairs of 'Staff omd 
belonging to the Central Government except those under the . control .and us# of 
the Ministry of Railways and the Department of Atomic Energy. 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING & SUPPLY 


I. Property of the Union (not being railway, naVal, military or dir force 
works or being the property of the Department hf "Atomic Ehergy) except : (i) 
buildings, the nmistruction of which ihps .been ftnaneed otherwise Jtfcftn fiwi -the 
civil works budget and (ii) buildings, the control of which has .at the time of 
construction or subsequently, been permanently made tlveV 'by the ministry' of 
Works, Hoping and ^Siappiy’to nnntfaer : Ministry. r ' 

. 2. All Government Civil works and buildings including ^those of Union llferrl- 
tprles .eucyluding xoa<Js and excluding. works executed by <pr (pudding Rejoicing 
to the Railways and the Department of Atomic Energy. 

3. Horticultural operations. 

4. Indian Service of Engineers. 

5. Development of Gov'ei’PhlCPf feokmi-ed IhDdlWi!- 

,6. Allotment pf Government ; laods ,in Delhi. 

7. Administration of Government states under the control of the Ministry o! 
Works, Housing»& Supply at Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta, Simla, Nagpur, etc., and 
d^puyaal of officer .fyotp' P®ihi, • 

8. Allotment of accommodation in Vigyan Bhavan. 

9. Administration of the Requisitioning and ArquidteonihSf Tmmncibild #ro- 

Pprty,,Acti, 1952. ,. ■ . - 

10. Control and administration of Hotel Janpa'h, New Delhi, 45ra'rul Hold?, 

Simla and Government hostels. ■ ■ ■ f - . , 

II. Admintetralian of Delhi Hotels --(Control pf -Aeo nrnmo dp tioni Act, 4940. 

,,12. The • Public Premises .(Eviction of Unauthorised i Opeupautd) Act, 1,-958. 

13. Administra'ion of Rehabilitation Markets—Raisina Road Market; Saroiiril 

ftlprkQt, Sajrojini Nggar: New Central.Market, Connaught Gircuai Kemla 'MscKet 
fipd pleasure Garden Market. , ■ 

14, Formulation of housing policy and programme. Review of the implemen¬ 
tation of the Plan Scheme’. Collection and qisseminatidti- of dpta on Rousing, 







Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 83 


building materials and building techniques. General measures for reduction of 
building costs, International cooperation and technical assistance in housing. 

15. Stationery and printing for the Government of India including official 

publications. 1 

16. Administration of the Indian Boilers Act and the Regulations made there¬ 
under. i 

17. Explosives, administration of the Indian Explosives Act, 1884, the Petro¬ 
leum Act, 1934, and the Rules made thereunder; but not the Explosive Substances 
Act. 

18. Purchase and inspection of stores for the Central Government other than 

the items the purchase and inspection of which are delegated by general or 
special orders to other Departments. I 

19. Disposal of surplus stores. 

20. Residual work of supply and disposal relating to the late war organisations 
including the Directorate General, Aircraft including Civil Maintenance Units, 
and Directorate General, Ship Repairs. 

21. Disposal of German reparations machines. 

22. Claims for frustrated cargoes. 

23. Administration of the Ministry and attached and subordinate organisations, 

namely:— 1 

(a) Central Public Works Department; 

(b) Directorate of Estates; 

(c) National Buildings Organisation; 

(d) Printing and Stationery Department; 

(e) Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals; 

(f) Government Test House, Alipore, Calcutta; 

(g) India Store Department, United Kingdom; 

(h) India Supply Mission, U.S.A.; 

(i) Office of the Chief Inspector of Explosives In India; 

(j) Central Boilers Board; ' 

(k) Chief Pay and Accounts Officer, W„ H, & S. Ministry; and 

(l) Land & Development Office. 

24. The Ashoka Hotels Ltd., New Delhi, 1 

25. Hindustan Housing Factory Limited, New Delhi. 

DEPARTMENT OF ATOMIC ENERGY 
1. All matters relating to Atomic Energy in India, e.g,, 

(i) Administration of the Atomic Energy Act, 1948, including control of radio¬ 

active substances and regulation of their possession, use, disposal and 
transport; 

(ii) Research, including fundamental research In matters connected with 

atomic energy and the development of Its uses in agriculture, biology, 
industry and medicine; 

(iii) Atomic minerals:—Survey, prospecting, drilling, development, mining, ac¬ 

quisition and control; 

(iv) All activities connected with the development and use of atomic energy, 

including; 

(a) projects and industries concerned with substances and minerals pres¬ 

cribed under the Atomic Energy Act, their products and by¬ 
products; ! 

(b) generation of electricity through the use of atomic energy; 

(c) design, construction and operation of research, development and power 

reactors; 

(d) establishment and operation of facilities and plants 

(I) for the production of materials and equipment required for research 
into and the use of atomic energy and for research In the nuclear 
sciences; 



84 


TIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part U 


(li) for the separation of isotopes, including plants adaptable to the se¬ 
paration of isotopes as by-prcduct, including the production ol 
heavy water as a main or subsidiary product; and 

(v) Supervision of State undertakings concerned with prescribed or radio¬ 
active substances, including: 

(a) Indian Rare Earths, Ltd.; 

(b) Travancore Minerals, Ltd,; and 

(c) Hindustan Chemicals and Fertilisers, Ltd,, so far ns production of 

heavy water is concerned. 

2. Financial assistance for the furtherance of studies In the nuclear sciences and 
for building up an adequately trained man-power for the development of the atomic 
energy programme, including: 

(I) Assistance to institutions and associations engaged in scientific work and 
to Universities for advanced study and research in the nuclear 
sciences; and 

(ii) Grant of scholarships in scientific subjects to students in Universities and 
other educational institutions and other forms of financial aid to 
individuals, including those going abroad for studies in the nuclear 
sciences, 

3. International relations in matters connected with atomic energy, including: 

(i) Matters relating to atomic energy in the United Nations, Specialised Agen¬ 
cies, International Atomic Energy Agency and in relations with other 
countries; and 

Hi) Correspondence with institutions, universities; etc., abroad in connection 
with foreign fellowships and the training of Indian scientists. 

4. All matters relating to personnel under the control of the department of 
Alomie Energy. 

5. Execution of works and purchase of land debitable to the Capital Budget of 
the Department of Atomic Energy. 

6. Procurement of sj-pres and equipment required by the Department Cf Atomic 
Energy 

7. Financial sanctions relating to the Department of Atomic Energy. 

DEPARTMENT OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS 

1. Dates of summoning and prorogation of the two Houses of Parliament; disso¬ 
lution of Lok Sabha, President’s Address to Parliament. 

2. Planning and co-ordination of legislative and other official business in both 
Houses, 

3. Allocation of Government time in Parliament for discussion of motions given 
notice of by Members. 

4. Liaison with Leaders of Groups and Deputy Chief Whips, 

3. Lists of Members for select and Joint Committees on Bills. 

6. Appointment of Members of Parliament pn Committees and other bodies set 
up by Government. 

7. Functioning of Informal Consultative Committees of Members of Parliament 
for various Ministries. 

8. Implementation of assurances given by Ministers in Parliament. 

9. Government’s stand on Private Members' Bills and Resolutions. 

10. Secretarial assistance to the Parliamenary & Legal Affairs Committee of 
the Cabinet. 

11. Salaries and Allowances of Members of Parliament Act. 

12. Salaries and Allowances of the Officers of Parliament Act. 

13. Advice to Ministries on procedural and other Parliamentary matters. 

14. Coordination of action by Ministries on the recommendations of general 
application made by Parliamentary Committees, 

15. Officially sponsored visits of Members of Parliament to places of interest. 



85 


Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


CABINET SECRETARIAT 

1. Secretarial assistance to the Cabinet and Cabinet Committees. 

2. Rules of Business. 

3. Organisation and Methods. 

4'.. Central Statistical Organisation. 

5. National Sample Survey. 

6, Indian Statistical Institute. 


PRESIDENT'S SECRETARIAT 
1, To provide Secretarial assistance to the President. 


PRIME MINISTER’S SECRETARIAT 

1. To provide Secretarial assistance to the Prime Minister. 


PLANNING COMMISSION 


1. Assessment of the material, capital and human resources of the country, 
including technical personnel, and formulation of proposals for augmenting such 
of these resources as are found to be deficient. 

2. Formulation of Plans for the most effective and balanced utilisation of the 
country’s resources. 

3. Definition of stages in which the Plan should be carried out on a determi¬ 
nation of priorities and allocation of resources for completion of each stage. 

4. Determination of (he nature of the machinery necessary for the implemen¬ 
tation of the Plan in all Its aspects. 

6, Appraisal from time to time of the progress achieved in the execution of 
each stage of the Plan. 

6, Public Co-operation in National Development. 

7. Perspective planning. 

Note.- —The Planning Commission will be concerned broadly with technical 
questions relating to planning and the planning organisation itself. Th« 
policy and details of specific schemes included in the Plan are matters 
to be dealt with by the (Central) Administrative Ministries and State 
Governments. 

RAJENDRA PRASAD,. 

President. 


The 14th January, 1061. 


[No. 74/7/CF-6U1 
R. G. RAU, 

Jt. Secy., to the Cabinet. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, 
NSW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1961 





