r Q T 


222 Tr " 3' C Uj REGISTERED No. D. gZg ; 

IT'^' 

9lRcT 

trhe (Bazcttc off^fndia 



irikwT « "f 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 




M ^ -t. 


47 


J 


5Tf^in^, ^«rc 22, i969/?Tff5nnir 


No. 47 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 19 « 9 /AGRAHAYANA i, iWi 


Separate paglug Is given to tbls Part in order that it may be filed 

as a separate compllaEon. 


tnn II — 3 — (ii) 

PART II — Section 3 — Sub-section (ii) 

(^WT *(5nprq v) RTYW RTqiiY % BSfrtTH") tftr (R'n JUimH v) 

RlfRfTqft JTTI sir") fv.i) »l^ fqfw Wll5T \ 

Statutory orders and notifications issued liy the Ministries of the Govern* 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories). 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the &th November 1969 

S.O. 4634. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
13A of the Representation of the People Act, 1950, the Election Commission, In 
consultation with the Administration of Laccadive, Minlcoy and Amindlvi Islands, 
hereby nominates Shri K. Damodara Menon, Administrator, Union Territory of 
Laccadive, Minicoy and Amlndivi Islands, as the Chief Electoral Officer for the 
Union Terltory of Laccadive, Minlcoy and Amlndivi Islands from the afternoon 
of the 1st November, 1969 vice Shri C. H. Naire. 

[No. 154/27/69.) 


R\T;i fTfqf'-q' 

di 6 1969 

tiRo glfo 46 3 4.— tflF trfdfqfUfq WfufTW, 19.50 EflU 13-^1 q?) 

iftT ^ srwuT" R '.TiTTsi *67;^, »4t ?fro 0,^0 ^ ^«nTT qr 

Jsft ^0 R^T, SrsfTiRSF, f, RVq^lir ?T> m 

1 qq-f-R, 19 69 ^ R fR-ftqTR 5ftT RR xv^m ^ 

fRtr 1JT3T fRlIRR vfTfRrq; ^ R P^XiR Rl^ fRX fRtl ^FTRl ^ | 

[ro 154 / 27 / 69 ] 

RltR R, 

To RRo TT^riitTPflR, 1: 


( 5083 ) 



5084 the gazette of INDIA: NOV. 22, 1969/AORAHAYANA 1, 1891 [Part II— 


Nevy Delhi, the 7th November 1969 

S.O. 4635. — In pursuance of the provisions contained in sub-section (1) of Section 
13AA of the Representation of the People Act, 1950, and In supersession of Its 
notification No. 508/J&K/66, dated the 26th December, 1966, the Election Com- 
mission, in consultation with the State Government hereby designates the Deputy 
Commissioner of each district in the State of Jammu and Kashmir to be the 
District Election Oflflcer for that district. 

[No. 508/J&K/69(U.] 
By order, 

K. S. RAJAGOPALAN, Secy. 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 18th October 1969 

S.O. 4636. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Om Prakash, 
Medical Practitioner, Dhuri Gate, Sangrur a contesting candidate for the mid-term 
genera] election held in February, 1969 to the Punjab Legislative Assembly from 
Sangrur constituency, has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses ns 
required by the Repre.sentation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made 
thereunder and the said candidate, even after due notices, has not given any reason 
or explanation for the failure; 

And whereas the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 
reason or Justification for the failure. 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section lOA of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Om Prakash to be disqualified for 
being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
.yeans from the date of this order. 

[No, PB-LA/92/69(9).] 


df 18 1969 

' Cv ' 


wto 4636.~-trd; PreiT-dd tTEftr ^ ^TRTWTT mi I fTTrspf)-, 1969 

Tjqfknr sriK mtpf, KfqqrTgfeTRv, rwt:, rfpf 

1951 dqr ski srqfetT stnr-f-TqHT ^ 


T?T I ^ WRTKTdT ^ fiRT qflf PKfRK’g 1qTIT % fWT 

f vy URTtSfPT ^ <F,T | PfT TRT ’URTriTT ^ qiX qTPT 

TT qft t ; 


?rri : r~s , ifFafhfiK qft ktkt i o~t % r trprtT trcT^Li gqfr 
Jsff ?fPT TTfifr qrT % feft" Kt TT fTtf)- qfi fqsTFT Rm fWIT 
% ^ 'iffT fir ^ ^ ^ diflia ^ rfVq qf)' qfiHfsrfET % 

^rtlw sfKfrr 1 1 


[tio qqrrq'fTo Ra/ 92 / 69 ( 9 .] 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5085 


New Delhi, the 25th October I960 

S.O. 4637. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Dallp Singh, 
Village and P.O. Valloha. Tehsil Patti. District Amritsar a contesting candidate 
i’or the mid-teri 7 r general election held in February, 1969 to the Punjab Legislative 
Assembly from Valtoha constibjency, has failed to lodge an account of his election 
expenses in the manner required by the Representation of the People Act, 1961, 
and the Rules made thereunder; 


And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, has not given any reason 
or explanation for the failure and the Election Comirdsslon is sati.ifled that he 
■has no good reason or justification for the failure; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of section lOA of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Dallp Singh to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliaipent or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this order. 


[No. PB-LA/18/69(10).] 
By Order, 

ROSHAN LAL, Secy. 


1969 

qHo lito 4637- — ITd: OTTtT TT fRTRTd ^'T W | 1969 

l-tT iTapT W(TT % fTF 

iSTfilfFTFr, 19dl TTT JTTt fTTtff STT ^TTfSTfr ftfd F 

SEpfr JfT iTW R if f ; 

stftr, iTci: TFT ^ RTTT ^50% TF '‘TT H<sll TrftaFT R 

Tfl I 5f[y Wfr ^ TRT WTTi t, rPSTT 

srpTm TT RRI'aFT w t TTR IRTTiTdT % ^ 

^ -MIMlP'itq ^ i 


% ^ w wi^ffi ^ % ffir ^ ^ fdrflT 


[Ro TTIT-f^o Ro/ 18/69( lo)] 

It, 


TiFR- FfTT, 1 



5086 the gazette of INDIA: NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [Part II— 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 11th November 1969 

S.O, T638.~ ’ , '■ gE the powers conferred by section 7 of the Laccadive, 

Minlcoy and AnT.:.J)M Islands (Civil. Courts) ReRulatlon. 1965 (9 of 1965), the 
Central Govern. 'vrii hereby makes the following amendment In the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs No. S.O. 1154, dated 
the 19th March. . '. 'n), narnely ; — 

Amendment 

L) the Table appended to the said notification, against the entry relating to 
2. Court of Subordinatq,,j^dge” for the words “The Island of Kavaratti’ , in 
coulmn (2), the words “Komikode in Kerala State, the island of Kavaratti” shall 
be substituted. 


[No. F, 9/1/69-UTL.]' 
P. N. KAUL, Dy. Secy. 


NOTICE 

New Delhi, the bth November 1969 

S.O. 4639. — Notice is hereby given by the Competent Authority in pursuance of 
rule 0 of the Notaries Rules, 1950, that application has been made to the said 
Authority, under rule 4 of the said Rules, by Shri D. D. Kakkar, Advocate, .16/9, 
East Patel Nagar, Delhi-8, for appointment as a notary to practise in Delhi. 

2. Any objection to the appointment of the said person as a notary may be 
submitted In writing to the undersigned within fourteen days of the publication 
of this notice. 


[No. 22/30/69-Judl.III.] 

K. THYAGARA.TAN, 
Competent Authority. 


6 1969 

i^Ro W>o 4639; — SRI, STREW fJETR 1956 %f;RrT 

^fftmcTT, 36/9, ^ 8 ^ ^ ^ frim 4 % 

tfRT’jpfT ( ’flitl) TT TFR ^ 1 1 

sirfer ^ % ^<4 ir Jr ^ mqlrRTf ^ fft t w 

[Ro 22^30/6e-’^fir^] 

% fRTfiTTST'T, 
R5TR tnftRTd 1 

MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

Neio Delhi, the 22nd October 1969 

S.O. 4640. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Emigration 
Act 1922 (VII of 1922) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri V. N. Mokashl, 



Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5087 

Public Relations Officer, Regional Passport and Emigration, Office, Delhi to b* 
Protector oi Emigrants, Delhi in addition to his own duties with effect from 3rd 
October, 1909, vice Shrl M. M. Salgal, relieved of his duties on transfer. 

[No, CP & EO/ 18/69.1 

M. L. ICHOSLA, Attache (PVA). 


rI 22 1969 

v'\o 4640 : — ?rfErfRtnT, 1922 ( 1 9 2 2 Tff RRiirf ) ^ mri 3 ITO 
RTR Rftwrfi awtn ^ im lift ifTo 1^0 RtRmt, ^ 

RfSPpRt, RrtRTR 'HIR'fRT, Rfl% % RfdfTW, 3 

1969 % RRiPfl ^ fRJTR ^fTRlt | I >sft ^To l^o RppTtFfr Rl t^o C^o 

**)t frtr Tpr PTRTRTRr ?t T? TphlR St? folT I 


[ro ?ito ito RTT^oifto / is/ 6 9] 
l^Ro ITRo IjiRRT, 

('ft^) I 


MINISTRY OF finance 
(D epartment of Banking) 

New Delhi, the 5th November 1969 

S.O. 4641 — Whereas on an application made by the Reserve Bonk of India 
nnder sub,-section (1) of section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 
1949), the Central Government has made, under sub-section (2) of the said section 
45 an order of moratorium in respect of the Bank of Behar Limited, Patna, under 
sub-section (2) of the said .section. 

And whereas the Reserve Bank of India in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 45 of the said Act has prepared a scheme for the 
amalgamation of the Bank of Behar Limited, Patna with the State Bank of India. 

And whereas the Reserve Bank after having sent the said scheme in draft to 
the banks concerned In accordance with the provisions of sub-section (6) of the 
said section and after having considered the suggestions and objections received 
in regard to the said scheme has modified that scheme and forwarded it to the 
Central Government for sanction. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (7) cf 
section 45 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby sanctions the scheme cn 
and subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter mentioned. 

(1) The Bank of Behar Limited, shall be the transferor bank and the State 
Bank of India shall be the transferee bank. 

(2) As from the date which the Central Government may specify under sub- 
section (7) of section 45 of the said Act (hereinafter referred to as the prescribed 
date), all rights, powers, claims, demands, interests, authorities, privileges, benefits, 
assets and properties of the transferor bank, movable and immovable, including 
premises subject to all Incidents of tenure and to the rents and other sums ct 
money and covenants reserved by or contained In the leases or agreements under 
which they are held, all office furniture, loose equipment, plant, apparatus and 
.appliances, books, papers, stocks of stationery, other stocks and stores, all Invest- 
ments in stock.s, shares and securities, all bills recelavable in hand and In transit, 
all ca.sh In hand and on current or deposit account (including money at call ci 
short notice) with banks, bullion, ali book debts, mortgage debts and other debts 



5o88 the gazette OF INDIA-. NOV, 22, I969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [Part II— 


With the benefit of securities, or any gucrrnntee therefor, all othei', if any, property 
rights and assets of every description including all rights ot action and benefit of 
all guarantees In connection with the busines.s of the transferor bank shall, subject 
to the other provisions of this scheme, .stand transl'erred to, and become the pro- 
perties and assets of, the transferee bank; and as from the pre.scribeil date all the 
liabilities duties and obligations of the transferor bank shall be and shall be<-mne 
the liabilities, duties and obligations of the tran.sferee bank to the extent and in 
the manner provided hereinafter. 

Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision,? all contr,icts. 
deeds, bonds, agreements, powers of attorney, grants of legal representation and 
other instruments of whatever nature subsisting or having effect Immediately before 
the prescribed date shall be effective to the extent and In the manner hereinafter 
provided against or in favour of the transferee bank and may be acted upon ns if 
Instead of the transferor bank the transferee bank had been n party thereto or as 
if they had been Is.sued In favour of the transferee bank 

If on the prescribed date any suit, appeal or other legal proceedings of what- 
ever nature by or against the transferor bank i-s pending, the same .shall not abate, 
or be discontinued or be In any wai- prejudicially affected, but shall subject to 
the other provisions of this scheme, be prosecuted and enforced bv or against the 
transferee bank. 

If according to the laws of any country outside India the provisions of this 
scheme,- by themselves, are not effective to transfer or vest any asset or liability 
situated in that country which forms part of the undertaking of the transferor 
bank to or in the transferee bank, .the affairs of the transferor bank in relation 
to such asset or liability shall, on the prescribed date, stand entrusted to the 
chief executive officer for the time being of the transferee bank and the chief 
executive officer may exercise all powers and do all such acts and things as 
would have been exercised or done by the transferor bank for the purpose of 
effectively winding up its affairs- The chief executive officer .shaE take all such 
Bteps as may be required by the laws of any such country outside India for the 
purpose of effecting such transfer or vesting and in connection therewith the chief 
executive officer may, either himself or through any person authorised by him 
in this behalf, realise any asset or discharge any liability of the transferor bank 
and transfer the net proceeds thereof to the transferee bank. 


(8) The books of the transferor bank shall be closed and balanced and balance- 
sheets prepared in the first instance as at the close of busine.ss on the t)th August, 
196.0 and thereafter as at the close of business on the date immediately preceding 
the prescribed date and the balance-sheets shall be got audited -and certified by 
a chartered accountant or a firm of chartered accountants approved or nominated 
by the Reserve Bank of India for the purpose. 

A copy each of the balance-sheets of the transferor bank prepared In accordance 
with the provisions of the foregoing sub-paragraph, shall be filed by the transferor 
bank -with the Registrar of Companies as soon as possible after it has been received 
and thereafter the transferor bank .shall not be required to prepare balance-sheets 
or profit and loss accounts, or to lay the same before Its mciriber.s or file copies 
thereof with the Registrar of Companies or to hold any annual general meetings 
for the purpose of considering the balance-sheet and accounts or for any other 
purpose or to comply with the provisions of section 159 of the Companies Act, 
1956 (1 of 1966), and it shall not thereafter be necessary for the Board of 
Directors of the transferor bank to meet as required by section 28.5 of that Act. 

(4) The transferee bank shall, in consultation with the tran.sferor bank, value 
the property and assets and reckon the Uahlllties of the transferor bank In 
accordance with the following provisions, namely,— 

(a) Investments including Government securities shall be valued at the 
market rates prevailing on the day immediately preceding the pres- 
cribed date : 


Provided that the securities of the Central Government such as Post 
Office Certificates, Treasury Savings Deposit Certificates and any 
other securities or certlftcates issued under the small savings 
scheme of the Central Government shall be valued at their face 
value Or the encashable value as on the said date, whichever is 
higher. 


Of) 


where the market value of any Government security such as the 
Zamindarl Abolition Bonds or other similar security in respect of 



SEC.3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22, I969/AGRAKAYANA 1 , 1891 5089 


which the principal is payable In instalments is not ascertainable or 
is, for any reason, not considered as reflecting the fair value thereof 
or as otherwise appropriate, the security shall be valued at such an 
amount as Is considered reasonable having regard to the instalments 
of principal and interest remaining to be paid, the period during 
which such instalments are payable, the yield of any security Issued 
by the Government to which the security pertains and having tho 
same or approximately the same maturity, and other relevant factors; 

(c) where the market value of any security, share, debenture, bond or 

other inve.stment is not considered reasonable by reason of its having 
been afl'ected by abnormal factors, the investment may be valued 01 ; 
the ba.sis of its average market value over any reasonable period: 

(d) where the market value of any security, share, debenture, bond or 

other investment is not ascertainable, only such value, if any, shall 
be taken into account as is con.sidered reasonable, having regard to 
the financial position of the Issuing concern, ihe dividends paid by it 
during the preceding flve years and other relevant factor.?; 

(e) premises and all other immovable properties and any assets acquired 

In satisfaction of claims shall be valued at their market value: 

(f) furniture and fixtures, statioricr,y in stock and other assets, if any, shall 

be valued at the written down value as per books or Ihc realisable 
value a.s may be considered reasonable; 

ig) advances, including bills purchased and discounted, book debts and 
sundry as.sets, will be scrutinised by the transferee bank and the 
securities, including guarantees, held as cover therefor examined and 
verified by the transferee bank. Thereafter, the advance.s, including 
portions thereof, will be classified into two categories, ^ namely. 
■■Advances considered good and readily realisable'' and “Advances 
considered not readily realisable and/or bad or doulitful of recovery’ . 

(hi liabilitie.s for the purposes of this scheme shall Include all contingent 
liabilitic.s which the transferee bank may reasonably be expected or 
required to meet out of its own resources on or after the prc.scribed 
date. 


II. l^'here the v.alualion of any asset cannot be determined on the pre.scribecf 
date, it may, with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India be treated partl.v 
or wholly as an asset realisable at a later date. 

In the event of any disagreement between the transferee bank and the 
transferor bank a.s regards the valuation of any a.sset or the cla.ssiflcation of any 
advance or the determination of any liability, {he matter sitall be referred to the 
■Reserve Bank of India, whose opinion thereon shall be final ; 

Provided that until such an opinion is received, the valuation of the item or 
portion thereof b.v the transferee bank shall provisionally be adopted for the pur- 
pose of this scheme. 

It shall be competent for the Reserve Bank in the event of lls _ becoming 
nece.ssary to do so, to obtain such technical advice a.s it may consider to be 
appropriate in connection with the valuation of any such item of a.sset or determi- 
nation of any such item of liability, and the cost of obtaining such advice shall 
be payable in full out of the assets of the transferor bank. 

The ^•aluation of the assets and the determination of the liabilities in accordance 
with the foregoing provisions shall be binding on both the banks and the members 
and creditors thereof. 

(6) In consideration of the transfer of the property and the assets of the 
transferor bank to the transferee bank the transferee bank shall di.scharge the 
liabilities of the transferor bank to the extent mentioned in this and the following 
clauses, namely, — 

(a) any sums deposited by any employee of the transferor bank with that 
bank as staff security deposlta together with Interest if any accrued 
thereon up to the prescribed date and all other outside liabilities as 
on the prescribed date excluding deposits -shall be paid or provided 
for in full, 

Explanation,— For the purposes of this clause, interest payable on a deposit 
up to the prescribed date shall be regarded as part of the concerned 
deposit; 



5090 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV. 21. 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1 , 1891 [Part U— 


(b) in respect ol every savings bank account or current account or any 
other deposit including a fixed deposit, cash certificate, monthly 
deposit, deposit payable at call or short notice or any other deposit 
by whatever name called with the transleror bank and every other 
account not covered by clause (a). Including interest to the extent 
payable under this scheme, the transferee bank shall open with itself 
on the prescribed date a corresponding and similar account in the 
name of the respective holder (s) thereof crediting thereto the pro- 
rata share available In respect of each of the accounts out of the 
assets referred to In paragraph (4) as valued for the purposes of 
this scheme on the prescribed date, after excluding from the said 
assets as so valued the advances considered not readily realisable or 
bad or doubtful of recovery, any asset or portion of an asset not 
valued on the prescribed date and any amount needed for the pay- 
ments or provisions mentioned at clause (a) above and after adding 
to the said assets as so valued the aggregate amount of the payments 
made in terms of clause (a) (1) of paragraph 2 of the moratorium order 
dated the 8th August, 1969, Issued to the transleror bank ; 

Provided that any payment made from a deposit account on or after the 
10th August, 1969, and before the prescribed date, shall be reckoned 
towards the amount to be credited under this sub-paragraph and, 
accordingly the amount to be credited shall be the pro rata share 
less the amount of such payment: 

Provided further that where the transferee bank entertains a reasonable 
doubt as to the correctness of the entries made in any particular 
the credit to be made in that account in terms of clause (h) above 
till the transferee bank is able to ascertain the correct balance in 
such account. 

Explanation . — The term ‘pro rata’ shall, in so far as it occurs in this para- 
graph, mean in proportion to the respective amounts remaining due 
as at the close of business on the 9th August, 1969, (inclusive of inte- 
rest payable up to that date) and shall, in so far as it occurs else- 
where in this scheme, mean ‘in proportion to the respective amounts 
remaining due at the time of the payment or distribution’; 

(c) after the credits referred to in clause (b) above have been afforded, 
the transferee bank shall, with the least possible delay but in any 
case not later than three months from the prescribed date, furnish 
to the deposit Insurance Corporation established under the Deposit 
Insurance Corporation Act, 1961 (47 of 1961, hereinafter referred to 
as the Corporation) a list complying in all respects with the require- 
ments of sub-section (1) of section 18 of that Act and thereafter 
whenever amounts referred to in sub-section (2) of section 18 of that 
Act are received from the Corporation, the transferee bank shall 
credit each of the accounts referred to In clause (b) above, within 
seven days from the date or dates on which the amounts are received^ 
to the extent of the sums due to that account in accordance with sub- 
section (2) of section 18 of that Act ; 


Provided that — 

(I) If any account referred to in clause (b) has been closed or has 

matured for payment at the time when any amount for credit to 
that account is received from the Corporation, the payment to the 
person entitled to the said amount shall be made by the transferee 
bank in cash; 

(II) In case the person entitled to any amount referred to In clause (h) 

cannot he found or Is not readily traceable, provision for the 
amount due to such person shall be made and accounted for 
separately in the books of the Corporation itself and It shall not 
be necessary for the Corporation to pay the amounts to the 
transferee bank unless the person entitled to the amount Is found 
or traced and the Corporation has decided to make the payment 
In respect of that person through the transferee bank; 


[(d)' on the precrlbed date, the entire amount of the paid-up capital and 
reserves of the transferor bank shall be treated as provision for bad 



SBC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1S9I 5091 


and doubtful debts and depreciation In other assets of the transferor 
bank and the rights of the members of the ti;ansferor bank shall, in 
relation to the transferee bank, be ag provided for in paragraph (6) 
below. 

<8) In respect of — 

(A) every account mentioned In clause (b) of the preceding paragraph, the 

balance in the account, if any, remaining uncredlted in terms of that 
clause and clause (c) and 

(B) every share in the transferor bank, the amount of which was treated 

as paid up towards share capital by of or on behalf of each share- 
holder immediately before the prescribed date and/or the amount 
paid on account of the calls made by the transferee bank in pursuance 
of sub-clause (i) below, 

shall be treated as a collection account and shall be entered as such In the books 
of the transferee bank and payments against the account shall be made in the 
following manner, namely,— 

(I) the transferee bapk may, — ■ 

(a) in the first instance, call upon every person who on the prescribed 

date was registered as the hllder of a deferred share in the 
transferor bank (or would have been entitled to be so registered) to 
pay within three months from such date or dales as may be specified, 
the uncalled amount remaining unpaid by him in respect of such 
shares and the calls In arrears, If any and thereafter, if it is found 
to be so necessary, every person who was, as on the prescribed 
date, registered as the holder of an ordinary share of the transferor 
bank (or would have beeir entitled to be so registered) to pay 
within three months from such date or dates as may be specified, 
the uncalled amount remaining unpaid by him in respect of such 
share or shares br the calls in arrears, If any; and 

(b) take aU available steps having regard to the circumstances of each 

case to demand and enforce the payment of the amounts due under 
this clausej together with Interest at six per cent per annum for 
the period of the default; 

(II) the transferee bank shall, in respect of the advances, bills purchased 

and discounted, book debts and sundry debts and other assets, which 
are classified as “Advances considered not readily realisable and/or 
bad or doubtful of recovery’’, or which are or may be realisable 
wholly or partly after the prescribed date In terms of paragraph (4) 
above, take all available steps having regard to the circumstances of 
each case to demand and enforce payment, provided, however, that if 
the amount of a debt or asset exceeds Rs. 10,000, the transferee bank 
shall not, except with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India,— 

(a) enter into a compromise or arrangement with the debtor or any other 

person or write off any such debt or asset; 

(b) sell or otherwise dispose of any securities transferred to it or any 

asset taken over by it; 

(lii) the transferee bank shall In addition take all available steps Having 
regard to the circumstances of each case to demand and enforce the 
payment of the amounts, if any, awarded as damages by the High 
Court against any promoter, director, manager or other officer of the 
transferor bank under section 45L of the Bonking Regulation Act, 
1949, read with section 45H thereof and also with section 543 of the 
Companies Act, 1956; 

(iv) the transferee bank may, out of the realisations effected by It on 
account of the items mentioned in sub-clauses (1), (ii) and (111) 
above, make payment or provision in respect of any contingent 
liability to the extent that the provision made therefor under para- 
graph (5) (a) proves to be Inadequate, as also with the prior approval 
of the Reserve Bank, in respect of any liability whether contingent 
or absolute which was not assessed in terms of paragraph (4) above 
and has arisen or been discovered on or after the prescribed date; 

(v) the transferee bank shall out of the realisations effected by it on account 
of the items mentioned In sub-clauses (i), (II) and (111) above after 



5092 the GAZETrE OF INDIA: NOV. 21 , 1969 /AORAH AYANA 1, 18^1 IPartJI — 


deducting therefrom the expenditure incurred for the purpose and, 
with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India, such other expenses 
as may be considered reasonable and the amount appropriated 
therefrom In terms of clause (iv) above, or out of the balance, if any, 
which may be avaiiable from out of the provision in respect of 
contingent liabilities as reckoned for the purposes of this scheme after 
the extent of such liabilities has finally been ascertained, — 

(a) pay to the Corporation the amount received by the transferee bank 

from the Corporation under sub-section (2) of section 18 of the 
Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 1961 and the amount, if any, 
provided for by the Corporation; and 

(b) pay, In the case of depositors in respect of whom no amounts have 

been received by the transferee bank from the Corporation, the 
amounts due in respect of the collection accounts, and in the case 
of depositors In respect of whom any amounts have been received 
by the transferee bank from the Corporation or have been provided 
for by the Corporation the balance if any due to them in their 
collection accounts after the amounts due from the said accounts 
to the Corporation In respect of the payment made or provided for 
by the Corporation have first been paid In accordance with the 
provisions of sub-clause (a) above : 

Provided that the amount due to the Corporation shall, If it becomes 
necessary so to do, be provided for in the books of the transferee 
bank and be paid to the Corporation in the manner specified in 
clause (b) of regulation 22 of the Deposit Insurance Corporation 
General Regulations, 1961: 

Provided further that the transferee bank shall make the payments 
referred to in clause (b) above, — 

(I) if the corresponding or similar account mentioned in clause (b) 

of paragraph (5) has not been closed or has not matured for 
payment, by credit to that account, and 

(II) if the said account has been closed or has matured for payment, 

in cash; 

(vi) the amounts due to the Corporation in terms of sub-clause (a) of 
clause (v) above and the amounts due to the collection accounts of the 
depositors in terms of sub-clause (b) of that clause .shall rank equally 
among themselves, and If they cannot be paid In full shall abate In 
equal proportions; 

(vil) after the payments referred to in clause (v) of this paragraph have 
been made or provided for in full, the transferee bank shall, out of 
the balance of the amounts referred to in clause (vl which may be 
available to it, make payments pro rata towards the amounts, if any, 
due to the accounts of the former shareholders of the transferor bank 
in the manner and to the extent specified below : 

(a) in the first' place, the amounts, if any, due to the accounts of the 

former preference shareholders of the transferor bank till payment 
in full against all the accounts has been made; 

(b) in the second place, the amounts, if any, due to the accounts of the 

fomer ordinary shareholders of the transferor bank till payment in 
full against all the accounts has been made; and thereafter 

(c) in the third place, the amounts, if any, due to the accounts of the 

former deferred shareholders of the transferor bank till payment 
in full against all the accounts has been made; 

(d) after all the amounts rnentioned In sub-clauses (a), (b) and (c) above 

have been paid In full, the surplus. If any, remaining in the hands 
of the transferee bank shall be distributed pro rata among the 
former ordinary shareholders of the transferor bank ; 

Provided that If any question arises whether any amounts are due 
against an account mentioned in any of the above sub-clauses, it 
shall be referred to the Reserve Bank of India whose decision 
thereon shall be final ; 

Provided further that the transferee bank shall give to any person to 
whom any payment may be due under sub-clauses (a), (b) and (c) 



1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 


SLC,3(ii)] the gazette of INDIA; NOV. 


5093: 


above, such reasonable notice, not exceeding three months and not 
being Ic.ss than one month a.s It may consider appropriate of the 
pa.vment being due. and 

(a) ii during the period of this notice a request has not been received 
in writing for the payment of the amount due in cash and if the 
amount of the payment due is also not less lhan the highest closing 
price of an ordinary share in the transferee bank as quoted on any 
recognised stock exchange on or immediately before the date on 
which the notice is issued, or where the ordinary .share of the 
transferee bank is not quoted on any recognised stock exchange 
the price of the share as determined by the Reserve Bank, the 
transferee bank shall allot to the payee a share or shares in the 
transferee bank to the extent possible and disburse in cash the 
balance, if any, of the amount which ma.y be due; and 
(bj it the conditions mentioned in sub-clause (aj above are not fulfilled 
the transferee bank shall disburse the amount In cash : 

Provided further that the allotment of the shares or the payments 
aforesaid shall In each case be made before the end of six months 
from the dale on which notice of the payment falling due is 
deemed to have been served In accordance with the provisions of 
this scheme: 

(viii) the amounts due to the collection accounts referred to in this paragraph 
shall be deemed to be a liability of the transferee bank only to the 
extent provided for in this scheme; 

(ix) on the expiry of twelve years from the prescribed date or such earlier 
period u.s ihe Central Government after con.sulting the Reserve Bank 
of India may specify for this purpose, any Item referred to In 
clause (ii) of this paragraph which may not have been realised by 
that date shall be valued by the ti'ansferec bank in consultatioil with 
the Reserve Bank and the transferee bank shall distribute any 
amount or amounts determined in the light of that valuation after 
deducting therefrom first any sum necessar.v for meeting the liabilities 
referred to in clause (iv) of this paragraph which may remain un- 
satisfied as on that date in the order and the manner provided in 
clauses (v), (vi) and (vii) above; 

(x) the transferee bank shall invest such moneys realised on account of 
items mentioned In the preceding clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) as are 
not likely to be required by it for Immediate payment, in interest 
bearing deposits with itself or with any other bank or banks, in such 
manner and for such periods as may be appropriate having regard to 
the facts and clrcum.stance.s of the case or as the Reserve Bank of 
India may direct- The interest accrued shall be applied for meeting 
the liabilities referred to in clauses (iv), (v), (vi) and (vii) in the 
manner Indicated therein. 

(7) For the purposes of allotment to the shareholders of the transferor bank 
of shares In the transferee bank in terms of the foregoing paragraphs, — 

(i) the transferee bank may issue shares In the manner and to the extent 
specified In this scheme and thereupon the share capital of the 
transferee bank shall, notwithstanding the provision.s of any enact- 
ment, regulation or other instrument, be deemed to have been Increased 
to the extent of the shares which are so issued; or 

(11) the transferee bank may pay an amount equivalent to the value of the 
shares which are required to be issued in pursuance of the scheme 
to the Reserve Bank of India and thereupon in consideration of the 
amounts so paid, the Reserve Bank of India shall, out of the shares 
held by If in the transferee bank, transfer shares of an equivalent 
amount, for and on account of the shareholders of the transferor bank 
who may be entitled to the allotment of the said shares : 

Provided that the Reserve Bank shall not be called upon to transfer shares 
held by it In the transferee bank, if as a result of the transfer, the 
shares held by it are reduced to less than fifty five per cent of the 
Issued capital of the transferee bank. 

(8) Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing paragraphs, the 
allotment of shares under this scheme shall not be made in such a manner that any 



5094 THE GAZETTE OF INDU; NOV. 22, I969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [Part U— 


person other than the Reserve Bank of India, a Corporation, an insurer as 
defined in the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938), a local authority, a co-operative 
society or a trustee of a public or private religious or charitable trust, comes to 
be registered as a shareholder, whether in his own name or Jointly with any 
other person, of more than two hundred shares in the transferee bank; and for 
securing the above, the number of shares issuable to any person under this 
scheme, shall, if necessary, be reduced proportionately, payment being made in 
cash Instead of in shares to that extent. 


(9) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any contract, express 
or implied, no interest shall accrue on account of a deposit or other liability in 
any account mentioned in paragraphs (5) and (6) after the date of the moratorim 
except in respect of the staff security deposits mentioned in paragraph (5) (a) and 
interest shall be paid only in resuect of the new accounts opened with the 
transferee bank in terms of paragraph (5) and credited in accordance with the 
provisions of that or the next succeeding paragraph and only at such rates as the 
transferee bank may allow. 

(10) No depositor or other creditor of the transferor bank shall be entitled to 
make any demand against the transferor bank or the transferee bank in respect 
of any liability of the transferor bank to him except to the extent prescribed by 
this scheme. 

(11) No suit or other legal proceedings shaU lie against the Central Govern- 
ment, the Reserve Bank of India or the transferee or the transferor bank for 
anythlng which Is in good faith done or Intended to be done in pursuance of 
this scheme. 

(12) All the employees of the transferor bank other than those specified in 
the schedule referred to In the succeeding paragraph shall continue in service 
and be deemed to have been appointed by the transferee bank at the same 
remuneration and on the same terms and conditions of service as were applicable 
to such employees Immediately before the lOth August, 1969 ; 

Provided that the employees of the transferor hank who have, by notice in 
writing given to the transferor or the transferee bank at any ume 
before the expiry of one month next following the date on which 
this scheme has been sanctioned by the Central Government, Intimated 
their Intention of not becoming employees of the transferee bank, 
shall be entitled to the payment of such compensation, if any under 
the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (l4 of 1^7), and 
.such pension, gratuity, provident fund and other retirement benefits 
as may be ordinarily admissible under the rules or authorisations of 
the transferor bank immediately before the 10th August, 1969 : 

Provided further that the transferee bank shall In respect of the employees 
of the transferor bank who are deemed to have been appointed as 
employees of the transferee bank be deemed also to nave fahen 
over liability for the payment of retrenchment compensation in the 
event of their being retrenched while in the service of the transferee 
bank on the basis that their service has been continuous and has 
not been interrupted by their transfer to the transferee bank. 

'(13) The persons specified In the Schedule annexed to this scheme shall, on 
the described date, cea^se to be the employees of the transferor bank and notwith- 
nnvthinc contained in any law fop the time being in force or any 
agreement or contract, the persons so specified shall he entitled to and only to 
Xr^ension firatuity provident fund and other retirement benefits as may be 
ordinarily admissible to them under the rules or authorisations of the transferor 
bank Immediately before the 10th August, 1969. 

Provided that the compensation, if any, for the loss of employment, so f^ar as 
■. +n Vht imexnired portion of any contract of service, shall be such and 

onl? L may L determined by the Reserve Bank (whose determination in this 
respect shall he final and binding) , 

Provided further that nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the 
transferee bank from re-employing any person whose name has been 
specified In the schedule annexed to this scheme in such capacity an 
orsuch terms and conditions as the transferee bank may deem fit. 

nA\ The transferee bank shall, on the expiry of a period not longer than 
thrie^yea^^ from the date on which this scheme is sanctioned, pay or grant to 



Sec, 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV. 22 , 1969/AGRAHAYANA I, 1891 5095 


the employees ol the transferor bank the same remuneration and the same terms 
and conditions of service ns are applicable to the employees of corresponding, 
rank or status of the transferee bank subject to the qualifications and experience 
employees of the transferor bank being the same as or equivalent to 
those of such other employees of the transferee bank ; 

Provided that if any doubt or dlllerence arises as to whether the qualifica- 
tions or experience of any of the said employees are the same as or 
equivalent to the qualifications and experience of the other employees 
ol corresponding rank or status of the transferee bank or as to the 
procedure or principles to be adopted for the fixation of the pay of 
the employees in the scales of pay of the transferee bank, the doubt 
or difference shall be referred to the Reserve Bank of India whose 
decision thereon shall be final. 

(15) The trustees or administrators of any provident fund constituted for the- 
employees of the transferor bank or as the case may be the transferor bank shall 
on or as soon as possible after the prescribed date transfer to the trustees ol the 
employees provident fund constituted for the transferee bank, or otherwise as 
the transferee bank may direct, all the money and investments held in trust for 
the benefit of the employees of the transferor bank ; 

Provided that such latter trustees shall not be liable for an.y deficiency In 
the value of investments, or in respect of any act, neglect, or default 
done before the prescribed date. 

(16) The transferee bank shall submit to the Reserve Bank of India such, 
statements and Information as may be required by the Reserve Bank of India from 
lime to time regarding the Implementation of this scheme. 

(17) The transferee bank shall furnish to the shareholders of the transferor 
bank a statement of alfairs of the transferor bank in such form and at such 
periodical_ intervals as the Reserve Bank of India may specify in this behalf. 
The sending of such statements shall be discontinued when so directed by the 
Reserve Bank. 

(18) Any notlqe or other communication required to be given by the transferee 
bank shall be considered to be duly given if addressed and .sent by pro-paid 
ordinary post to the addressee at the address registered in the books of the 
transferor bank, until a new address Is registered In the books of the transferee 
bank, and such notice shall be done to be served on the expiry of forty-eight 
hours after It has been posted- Any notice or communication which is of general 
interest shall be advertised in addition In one or more daily newspapers which 
may be In circulation at the places where the transferor bank was transacting 
its business, 

(19) If any doubt arises in interpreting any of the provisions of this scheme, 
the matter shall be referred to the Reserve Bank of India srd Its opinion shall, 
be conclusive and binding on both the transferee and transferor banks, and also 
on all the members, depositors and other creditors and employees of each of 
these bank.s and on any other person having any right.s or liability in relation 
to an.y of these banks. 

(20) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this scheme, 
the Central Government ma.v issue to the tran,sferor and the transferee banks or 
to either of them such directions not inconsi.stenl with the provisions of this 
scheme as may appear to the Central Government, after consulUng the Reserve 
Bank of India, to be necessary or appropriate for the purpose of removing the- 
difficulty. 

Schedule attached to and forming part of the scheme for the amalgamation of the 
Bank of Behar Ltd' as sanctioned by the Central Government under sub-section (7) 
of section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act. 1949 (10 of 1949) 


Name of the employee 

Designation in ihc -transferer bark 


I 

2 


T. Sliri Shvi Narayan Sint;h . 

. General Manager 


(Chief Executive Officer), 

Head Office. 





5096 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/ AGRA HAVANA 1. 1891 [Part U— 


1 


2 


2. Shri Madan Mohan Pandit 

3. Shri Arbind Lai Mani Lai Gandhi 

4. Shri Kailash Prasad Sinha 


5. Shri Surendra Kumar 

6. Shri Indra Narain Verma 

7. Shri Mahadeo Prasad Kapoor 

8. Shri Sanat Prasad Verma 

9. Shri Satya Narain Prasad 

[No. F. 17(lO)-BC/&&.] 

S.O. 4643. — In pursuance of sub-section (7) of Section 45 of the Banking Regula- 
tion Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government hereby specifies the 8th Novem- 
ber, i.u69 as the pres_cribed date in relation to the scheme for the amalgamation of 
the Bank ol Behar Ltd-, with the State Bank of India which has been sanctioned 
by the Central Government under the provisions of the said sub-section. 

[No. F. 17(IO>-BC/09(1).] 

S.O. 4643.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section 2 of Section 45 of 
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949). and in modification of thj.s Ministry's 
Notification No. F. 17(I0)-BC/B9 dated the 8th Augu.st, 1969. the Central Govern- 
ment hereby directs that the order ol moratorium made by It in respect of the Bank 
of Behar Ltd., Patna, .ihall remain in force upto and including the 7th November, 
1969. 


Secretary, 

Head Office. 

Chief Accountant, 

Head Office, 

Superintendent of Branches (Estab- 
lishment). 

Head Office 
Insnector of Branches, 

Head Office. 

Manager, Barajamda Branch. 

Manager, Kanpur Branch. 

Manager. Monghyr Branch. 

Officer, Phu.sro Bazar Branch. 


[No. F, 17(10)-BC/69(ii).l 

S.O. 4644. — Whereas a scheme for the amalgamation of the Bank of Behar Ltd., 
with the State Banic of India has been sanctioned by the Central Government under 
the said scheme tias come into operation; 

Now, therefore, in exerci.se of the powers conferred by sub-.seclion (12 of section 
45 of the Banking Regulat.ion Act 1949, the Central Government, on ihe recommen- 
dation ol tile Reserve Bank, hereby directs that in it:; application to the conduct by 
the State Bank of India of the business acquired by it from Ihe Bank of Behar 
Limited under section 45 of the said Act, during the period between the 8th Novem- 
ber, 1969 and the 7th November, 1976, both days inclusive; — 

(1) section 33 of the State Bank of India Act, 19,55, shall apply as if: — 

(a) clause (i) has been substituted by the following clause namely "(i) the 

advancing and lending of money and the opening of Cash credits with 
or without security”; and 

(b) in clause (iv), the words “upon any of the securities specified in sub- 

clauses (a) to (d) of clause (1)” have been omitted, and for the words 
“for Or into any of the other investments above specified” the words 
“for and into any other investip^nts’* have been substituted, 

(2) The State Bank shall be exempt from clauses (a) and (c) of sub-section (1) 
of section 34 and clause (a) and sub-clause (li) ot clause (b) of , sub-section (3) of 
that section, in so far as they preclude the State Bank from — ■ 

(i) continuing or realising the loans or advances made for a period longer 
than twelve months or made against the security of Immovable pro- 
perty; 

(11) continuing or realising the loans or advances made against any negotiable 
instrument which does not carry on it the several responsiblitles of at 
least two persons or firms unconnected with each other in general 



SEC.3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5097 


partnership or does not mature within twelve months oI the date ot 
the loan or advance. 

[No. F. 17(lO)-BC/0&(iv).] 
New Delhi, the 7th November 1909 

S.O. 4G45, — In exercise of the powers conferred by section o3 read with 
section 50 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Govem- 
nient on the recommendation of the Reserve Bank of India, hereby declares that 
the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 11 of the said Act. shall not apply 
to the Shri Gajanan Sahakari Pedhi Limited, Putan for a period of one year with 
ertect from 1st March, 1969. 


[No, F, 18/4/69-SB.] 

(3rf<p»T 

Pivnl, 7 19 6 9 


rjRo 4 6 4 5 . — lf%JT MtTTT irfy Pd ^1 h , 1949 ( 1949^^i) ^ RITT 56^ 

Rpi Tfer irm 5 3 ritt wFwm tmiT |tt %^=sfEi % 

’Ft ftroifoi T-t ^>TrrT | arirr 1 1 ^ 

( 1 ) % >ift WRET Mills', TlSET Tt: 1 RI^, 1 969 R 1 ^ 

% fRTT ^ ^ I 


[Ro tbRo 1 8/4/69-t[R<5 ^o] 

S.O. 4646. — In pursuance of the provisions of clause (d) of sub-section (1) 
of Section 0 of the Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 1961 (47 of 1961) the 
Central Government, in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India, hereby 
renominates Shri V. II. Vora, Executive Director, Life Insurance Corporation, 
Bombay, as a Director of the Deposit Insurance Corporation for a period of two 
years with effect from the 1st .Tanuary, 1970. 

[No. F. 10/11/69-SB.] 


tTRo Wfo 4646, — RRl ^mr fROR RferfRRR, igei ( 1 9 6 1 RT RREflW ) 

mn 6 9?r RT trm ( i ) % r^rp", Rnrftrr 

^ ^ RRTf WT\'5'Rr RTRR RtRT fRTR ’“-ft fto 

^ 1 RRRTI', 1 9 70?! 2 RT ^ VRfR % % W ftRT IrRR TT RTRRR ’Tpft 

[ro 1^0 lO/n/69-tTRo fto] 


New Delhi, the Hth November 1969 

S.O, 4647. — In exercise of the powers conferred by proviso to clause (bi) of 
section 2 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934), and of all other 
powers hereunto enabling, the Central Government hereby rescinds the notifica- 
tion of the Government of India In the Ministry of Finance (Department of Econo- 
mic Affairs), No. F. 18/12/07-SB, dated the 19th March, 1968, published as S.O. 
1126 at page 1077 of the Gazette of India-Part Il-Sectlon 3-Sub-section (11) dated 
the 30th March, 1968. 


[No. F. 18/12/67-SB.] 
K. YESURATNAM, Under Secy. 



5098 the gazette OF INDU; NOV. 22, 1 969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [PAiTH— 


11 1969 

4 647: — 'TrdW srrTfnTiT, 1934 ( 1934SFTf?RT) ^ TITT 2 

I ) ^ ani ^ ^ tt ^rq'tTr 

sFTT|rT ^.-^^TTOTTEcTfirr 30 ET#, 1968 % ^ H 3, 

(ii) %qca leyyTTTtfTfTTiw^ 1126% Mtr sr?rrfifRf^rei?nTiTT,rqTT' 
IT^r?m (srqfg^lTTT) 'fit 1 SEP#, 1968^1 >!TfT^fTT?f^T ':Ti:ffo 18/i2/67'0To 
srrfft ^ 1 

[to tTTo 18/ 12/67 TT ifto] 
^0 ■j.-grriTT TT Tp'fT 1 


(Department of Revenue and insurance) 

Income-tax 

New Delhi, the 5th November 1969 

S.O, 4648.— It is hereby notlfled for general information that the institution 
mentioned below has been approved by the Council of Scientific and Industrial 
Research, the “prescribed authority”, for the purposes of clause (il) of sub-section 
(1) of Section 35 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961):' 

INSTITUTION 

Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, 

[No. 160/F, No. ll/7/69-IT(AIl).J 
S. N. NAUTIAL, Dy. Secy 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

Stamp 

New Delhi, the 22rid November 1969 

S.O. 4649. — In exercise ot the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (1) 
of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899), the Central Government 
hereby remits the duty with which the debentures of the face value of twO’ 
hundred and flfty lakhs of rupees, to be Issued by the Madras Slate Indiis'::ria1 
Development Corporation, are chargeable under the said Act. 

[No. 13/69-F. No. I/4O/0P-Cu.s.VII/Stamps,T 

P. K. KAPOOR, Under Secy. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 


Income-tax 

New Delhi, the Gth November 1969 


SO 4650 — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) ^ Section 121 
cf the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby 
makes the foUowlng amendments to the Schedule amended to its notmea ion 
No. 20 (No. F. 55/1/62-IT), dated the 30th April 196.3, published as S.O- 12.J..1. on. 



SEC.3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22, I969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5099 


pages 1454—1457 of the Gazette of India, Part II Section 3, Sub-section (ii), dated 
the 11th May. 1963 as amended from time to time;. — 

Against Sr. No. 5A, Bombay Clty-IIl, under Column 3 of the Schedule 
appended thereto — 

(i) following shall be added: 

11. C-V Ward, 

12. G-A Ward, 

This notification shall take effect from 6th November, 1969. 

[No. 151/F, No. 65/403/69-IT(AI),] 
L. N. GUPTA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOREIGN TRADE AND SUPPLY 
(Office of the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

ORDEaEl 


Bombay, the 30th April 1969 

N®. ^/1553211/C/XX/23/C/8/23-24/SSI dated 8th 
October, 196(3 of the ^lue of Rs. 3826/- for import of Cellulose Nitrate Sheets was 
issued to M/s. Raja Optical Frames Mfg. Works, Krishna Nagar, Satna? Madhya 
Pradesh. ' 


2. Thereafter, a show cause notice No. l/412/67/Enf/6454 dated 13th 
December, 1967 was issued asking them to show cause within fifteen days as to 
why the said licence issued in their favour should not be cancelled in terms of 
Clause 9 sub-clause (cc) of the Imports (Control) Order, 1965 dated 7th December 
1955 as the unit was reported closed and hence the licence in question was not 
likely to serve the purpose for which the same had beep issued. 

3. The aforesaid show cause dated 13th December, 1967 despatched to the 
firm was returned undelivered from the Postal Authorities. 

4. Having regard to what has been stated In the preceedlng paragraph the 
undersigned is satisfied that the licence in question should be cancelled or other- 
wise rendered ineffective. Therefore, the undersigned, in exercise of the powers 
vested In him under Clause 9 sub-clause (cc) of the Imports (Control) Order 
1965 hereby cancels the licence No. P/SS/1553211/C/XX/23/C/8/23-24/SSI dated 
8th October, 1966 for Rs. 3826/- issued in favour of M/s. Raja Optical Frames 
Manufacturing Works, Krishna Nagar. Satna, Madhya Pradesh. 


[No, 1/412/67/Enf.] 
I. R. KAKAR, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports, 
for Jt. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports, 


(Office of the Joiiit Chief ControUer of Imports and Exports) 

(Central Licensini; Area) 

ORDER. 

New Delhi, the ind Auyuri 1969 

„ 4652,— Exchange control copy of licence No. P/SS/ieiOs^V/r/Won /r’ rt / 

25-26 dated jeth March 1968 for Rs. 30,750 for the import of 

issued in ^vour of M/s. Pharma Chemico Laboratoriesf RamkWl ^'ctmiMr 

order No. 3/Priority-INH.P.W^^ 

CLA/^98 to 4448 dated 31 St March, 1969, as the said firm had re-ported that the 
same had been lost/misplaced by them. rKwi-iea mat the 

Of reported to thus office that the exchange control copy 

of the said licence has since been traced out. In view of this position, the orJer 





5100 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [Pari II-^ 


No. 3/Priority-II/HP/AM.68/AU.HRH/CLA/4398 to 4448 dated 31.st March, 1969 
I’eferred to in para. 1 above is hereby rescinded, 

[No. r.3/Priority-II/HP/AM,68/AU.HRH/799.] 

8.0. 4653. — M/s. Vinay Plastic and Glass Industries, Railway Road, Bahadur- 
garh (Har) were granted import licence No. P/S/1611292/C/XX/27/D/25/26 dated 
23rd May 1968 for Rs. 5,000 for import of Polythyiene Moulding Powder (High 
Density) , Cellulo.se Acetate Butyrate, Aery ic Plastic Moulding Powder, Polyster 
lilm, Cellulose Nitrate Sheets, Rods and Tubes and P/S/1612303/C/XX/29/D/25/26 
dated 6th November 1868 for Rs. 5000 for import of A. P. Moulding Powder, Polyster 
film and C.N. sheets Rods and Tubes. They have applied for issued of duplicate 
copies of customs purposes and exchange control copies thereof on the ground that 
the original licences have been . ost/misplaced without having been utilised at all. 

2. The applicant has filed an affidavit in support of their contention as required 
under para 302 of I.T.C, Hand Book of Rules and Procedue 1969. I am therefore 
.satisfied, that the original Customs Purposes and Exchange Central copies of the 
licence have been lost/misplaeed. 

3. In exerci.se of the powers conferred on me under section 9 (CC) Import 
(Control) order, 1955, dated 7th December, 1955, I order the cancellation of Ucence 
No. P/S/18n292/C/XX/27/D/26726 dated 23rd May 1868 and P/S/1612303/C/XX/ 
29/D/25/26 dated 6th November 1968.. 

4. The applicant is now being issued dup’icate copies of Customs purposes and 
exchange control copie.s of these Ucences in accordance with the provision of para 
302(4) of I.T.C. Hand Book of Rules and Procedure 1969. 

[No. F.V-20/HAR/AM.68/AU.HRH/CLA/800,] 

5.0. 4654. — M/s, Sunshine General Industries, Railway Road, Bahadurgarh, 
Distt. Rohtak (Har) were granted an import licence No. P/SS/1610926/C/XX/ 
25/26 dated 17th April 1968 for Rs. 10,000 for the import of Hard Glass Tubings 
(10 per cent of the face value) Inter changable Glass Joints (10 per cent of face 
value)) Platinum wire (10 per cent of face value) Electrical Healed flasks (10 per 
cent of face value) and Silica wares. They have applied for issue of duplicate, s 
of Customs Purpose nnd Exchange conti’ol purpose copies thereof on the ground 
that the original copies have been lost/mlsplaced. 

2. The applicant ha.s filed an affidavit in support of their contention, as required 
under para 302 of I.T.C. Hand Book of Rules and Procedure 1969, I am therefore 
satisfied that original Custom purpose and Exchange Control copies of the licence 
in question have been lost/misplaced. 

3. In exercise of the powens conferred on me, under section 9 (CC) Import 
(Control) Order, 1955, dated 10th October, 1955, I order the cancellation of 
the Custom purposes and Exchange Control copies of licence No. P/SS/101O926/C/ 
XX/26/CD/25/26, dated 17th April, 1968. 

4. The applicant is now being Issued duplicates of Customs purpose as well 
as exchange control purpose copies of the licence, in accordance with para 302 
of I.T.C. Hand Book of Rules and Procedure 1909. 

[No. F.23/Priority-n/AM.68/HAR/AU.HRH/CLA/801,] 

New Delhi, the 3rd October 1969 

B.O. 4655. — M/s. United Steel and Allied Industries, B-37, Modem Industrial 
Estate, Bahadurgarh (Haryana) were granted an import licence No, P/SS/ 1610291V- 
C/XX/25/CD/25/26 dated 22nd March, 1968 for Rs. 4,000 for the Import of P. 
& M. Tools other than Banned shown against S. No. 21-11 In part-A of the Red 
Book! They have applied for Issue of duplicate copy of the Custom Purposes copy 
thereof, on the ground that the original has been lost/mlsplaced without having 
been registered with any custom authority and utilised at all. 

2 The applicant have filed an affidavit In support of the above statement as 
required under para. 302 of I.T.C, Hand Book 1969. I am satisfied that the custom 
purpose copy of the licence has been lost/mi.splaced. 

3, In exerci.se of the power.s conferred on me under section 9(cc) Import 
Control Order, 1955, dated 7th December, 1055, I order the cancellation of the 
custom.s purpose copy of Import Ucence No. P/S/1610299 dated 22nd March, 1968. 



SEC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22 , 1969/AGRAHAYANA I, 1891 5101 


4. The applicant Is now being Issued a duplicate copy of customs purpose copiy 
of this licence, in accordance with the provisions of para. 302(4) of I-T.C. Hand 
Book of Rules and Procedure, 1909. 

[No. U-2/HAR/AM.08/AU-HRH/CLA.] 
New Delhi, the 15th October 1909 

S.O. 4656. — M/s. Panch-Shllla Industries, Opposite Government College, Gur- 
gaon were granted licence No. P/^/I609215/C/XX/25/CD/23-24 dated 9th Jan- 
uary, 1008, for Rs. 17,082 for the Import of Tungston Metal Discs, Resistance Wires, 
Enamelled Copper Wire SWG No. 44,45 and 46 onwards. The,y have applied for 
Issue of duplicate of Exchange Control copy thereof on the ground that original 
copy ha.s been lost/misplaced. The licence has been registered with New Delhi 
Custom house and has been utilised to the extent of Rs. 5,362. 

2. The applicant has filed an affidavit in support of their statement as requir- 
ed under para. 302 of I.T.C. Hand Bopk of Rules and Procedure, 1969. I am satis- 
fled that the original Exchange Control copy has been lost/misplaced. 

3. In exercise of the powers conferred on me under section 9(cc) Import Con- 
trol Order, 1955 dated 7th December, 1955, I order the cancellation of Exchange 
Control copy of Import licence No. P/SS/ie09213/C/XX/25/CD/23-24 dated 9th 
January, 1968. 

4. The applicant is now being issued a duplicate of the Exchange Control copy 
of this licence In accordance in accordance with the provisions or para. 302(4) of 
I.T.C. Hand Book of Rules and Procedyre, 1969. 

[No. F. PN. 84/66/P-106/Har./AM-67/AU. HRH/CLA.] 


CANCELLATION ORDER 
New Delhi, the 11th September 1969 


S.O 4657, -.M/s. Jons Footwear Co., 14 Kachery Road, BoilueganJ, Agra were 
granted import licence No. P/AU/12119e6/C dated 28th March 1968 for L M09 
They have applied for duplicate Custom.s Purposes Copy of the licence on the 
ground that the original Customs Purposes Copy thereof has been misplaced without 
having been registered with any customs authorities and without having been 
Utilised at all. ® 


In support of thi.s contention the applicant has filed an affidavit, I am satisfied 
that the origma’ Customs Purposes Copy of the licence No, P/AU/1211966/C dated 
28th March 1968 has been misplaced and direct that duplicate Customs Purposes 
Copy of the licence .should be issued to the applicant. The original Customs 
Purposes Copy of the licence i.s Canceiled. 


[No, Leather-ll/JM.67/SC.III/CLA.] 

RAM MURTI SHARMA, 
Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

ORDER 

Panjim Goa, the 7th October 1969 

S.O. 4658.— M/s. Venktesh Shenal Phonsule, Ferces Road Santa Cru 7 — Gn« 
were granted import licence No. P/E/0139842 C/XX/28/G/27-28 dated 19th July 

MILK^FOOD POR^h^^ANTV/ POWERED AND CONDENSED /INCLUDING 
^ ^ I^ANTS/v^ued at Rs. 1,000 under S, No. 9-10-IV, They have 

duplicate Exchange Control copy of the licence on the ground 
that the ongina Exchange Control Copy of the licence has been To^t.' R has Ker 
been repoi ted by the party that the licence lost was partly utilised for Rs 361 

StomT"^ " Registered wRh MafmaS 



5102 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA. 1, 1891 [Pari II- 


In support of their contention, the applicant have filed an affidavit on a stamped 
paper duly attested by Taluka Magistrate, First Class, Panjim, Goa. The under- 
signed is satisfied that the original Exchange Central Copy of the licence No. P/E/ 
01.39842/C/XX/28/G/27-28, dated 19th July, 1968 has been lost and direct that 
duplicate Exchange Control Copy of the said licence should be issued to them. 

In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Section 9 (cc) of Import 
Control Order, 1955 dated 7th December 1955, I order the cancellation of Exchange 
Control Copy of the licence No. P/E/0139842/C/XX/2B/G/27-28, dated 19th July 
1968. 

The applicant is now being issued a duplicate copy of Exchange Purpose Copy 
of this licence in accordance with the provisions contained in para 302 (1) of ITC 
Hand Book of Rules and Procedure, 1969 

[No. EI/9-1O-IV/2/AM09.] 
R. D. PAWAR, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 


(Office of the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

ORDER 

Calcutta, the 10th November 1969 

8,0. 4659.— A licence No. P/S/1631628/C/XX/30/C/27-28/AU-V dated 19th 
March, 1969 of the value of Rs, 900 for Import of safety Lamp excluding Electric 
Safety Torches was Issued to M/s. Mine Safety Appliances Ltd,, 240A, Acharya 
Jagadish Bose Road, Calcutta-20, 

Thereafter, a show cause notice No. 186/89/E&L dated 8th October, 1969, was 
Issued asking them to show cause within 15 days as to why the said licence in 
their favour .should not be cancelled on the ground that the goods are indigenous- 
ly available in terms of Clause 9. Sub-Clause (a), 

3. No response to the aforesaid show cause notice had been received from 
M/s. Mine Safety Appliances Ltd., 240A, Acharya Jagadish Bose Road, Calcutta- 
20 . 


4. Having regard to what has been stated in the preceeding paragraph, the 
undersigned is satisfied that the licence in question should be cancelled or other- 
wise rendered Ineffective. Therefore, the under.signd, in exercise of the powers 
vested In him under Clause 9 sub-clause (a) of the Imports (Control) Order. 1955 
hereby cancel the licence No. P/S/ 1631628 /C/XX/30/C/27-28/AU-V dated 19th 
March, 1969, for Rs. 900 Issued In favour of M/s. Mine Safety Appllance.s Ltd., 
240A, Acharya Jagadish Bose Road. Calcutta-20. 


[No. 186/69/E&L.] 
M. S. PURI, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 13th November 1969 

S.O. 4660. — M/s, Kwality Restaurant, Bombay were granted an Import licence 
No. PA/1288396/C/XX/26/C/H/2526 dated 16th January, 1968, for Rs. 600 
(Rupees five hundred only) for the Import of Chinese Decllcacles viz., CJourmet 
Powder, Dried Mushrooms and Shark’s Fin. They have applied for the issue of 
a duplicate Customs purpose copy of the said licence on the ground that the origi- 
nal Customs purposes copy has been lost /misplaced. It Is further stated that the 
licence (Customs purpose copy) was not registered with any Customs Authority 
at the Ports, and was not utilized at all, 

2. In support of this contention the applicant has filed- an affidavit. I am 
accordingly satisfied that the original customs purpose copy of the said licence 
has been lost/misplaced. Therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred under 
sub-clause 9(CC) of Imports (Control) Order ig.'iB, dated 7th December, 1965, as 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5103 


amended, the said Customs purpose copy of the said licence No. P/ A/ 1288896/0/ 
XX/26/C/H/25-26 dated 1,6th January, 1908, issued to M/s. Kwallty Restaurant, 
Bombay Is being cancelled. 

A duplicate Customs purpose copy of the said licence Is being issued to the 
licensee separately, 

INo. 14/1012/ 1/AM-68/ILS/2494,] 
G, D. BAHL, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD, AGRICULTURE, COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND 

COOPERATION 


(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 6th November 1969 


S.O. 4661. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of the Agricultural 
Produce (Grading and Marketing) Act, 1937 (1 of 19.37), the Central Government 
hereby declares that the provisions of the said Act shall apply to the following 
article, namely: — 

Soyabean 

|;No. F. 13,26/69-LA.] 


B. R. KAPOOR, Under Secy. 


(ffisr fT4in) 

?rt 6 1969 

wro 4661, — ^TfafPlR, 1937 
{ 1 93 7 3T 1 ) 8TU 6 51X1 SlTrT UlfTtPlT 31T sttlt'l WW (.‘ff^gTU 

^ ?lfs)(dijg % 'dM’i'-R 'ft : — 

Rldidtr 

[do 13-26/69-tTlTo fro] 

dV® ?ino dfdT I 


djfr 8 1 969 

3767: — fTTd, I960 % rddd 3 % 
XTTdTft.'TTlf'TXT Tid Tfxdjld 1 958 ( 19.58¥r 44) dlTT 4 dRT tlTd 

in-PidTfr ipr tiddsm Tr<^ 'itd RTrfqd t 



5iQ4 the gazette of INDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1. 1891 [Part II— 


fTTTfTfer ?ITHTlr Tl ^E>jfTT T> *fT 

TTtPt^T TTcft t, 

1. ^ftiTTo ^0 frc'^PTT 

2. «frtfto 

3. 

i. ^£ft^I^rwT f%f 

5. »Tt ^?TT »frf^ 

6. *(iCo ^rrfcrTTTT’n' 

7. %ft%° TTT 

8- ^ c[?r° 

9. 'fto 

1 0. JEft'O'o tr^o ^ 

1 1. fTTTTtC^frW tT^o fiCJTT 
12- T^cq7 

13. isft^o TTTr^TrtftT^lftpTT 

14. iffTcfV grrlr TtTTTaft 

15. >sftt^?ro IIT^O 

16. ^0 

17. %fr!T%?r 

18. ifro^)jTfeT«PT 

dL 

19. «fl Tlfw 

20. «fttrwo TT^o fTTTT 

21. liTio 

2- TTTTt; t^Ti^JTTT I[^o %» T>TT5pT ^TPIT, (TIT ) TT 

Tt Tf TfTSr | I 

[To TTf 37-0 ;To‘^o {(i)jiid] 
^TTT fTf , TTT tTtT | 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT, INTERNAL TRADE AND 

COMPANY AFFAIRS 

(Department of Industrial Development) 

New Delhi, the Wi November 1969 

8.0. 4663. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 72 of the Indian 
Patents and Designs Act, 1911 (2 of 1911), the Central Government hereby appoints 
the Deputy Chief Engineer, Technical Services, Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, 
Heavy Electricals Equipment Plant, Hardwar, U.P. as an authority for the purpose 
of the said section, and makes the fallowing further amendment In the notification 


I TT? anr fTa'ffTd: 


%TfUi TTrii: % sTfcrffiftT 


■T^TEarfiETf % sifcrPiftr 


Tif^ % jrfTfTfa 





Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/ AGRAHAY ANA 1, 1891 5105 


of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and) Industry 
No, S.R.O. 681, dated the 23rd March, 1955, namely:— 

In the said notification, after item 35 and the entry relating thereto, the 
following item and entry shall be added, namely : — 

(36) "Deputy” Chief Engineer, Technical Services, Bharat Heavy 
Electrical Limited, Heavy Electrical Equipment Plant, Hardwar 
U.P.” 

[No. 33(42)-PP&D/69.] 

ftWiR, WPfTpW WTnnT !riIT 

7 1969 

qns 4662. — dNI 1 9 1 1 ( 1 9 1 1 TT 2 ) 

O’trm 72%5THSrTHHfTdhTTT5rq'tdTf^d |tT, TT-iJW 

2r"R*hH 'flTTd fel o , I^T T 0 JT “ 

’fit ^frfiTfed NRT ^ WfNT TT trfftlTTft fd^d dNrff I dNT dRd dlPiIvT 

?ft 681, f^dldi 23 did, 1955, fdiH- 

ftrftrd ?ltT tTRl T^fiatT t, wfd : — 

dTfrfdftrd ?rref^ddT Sr 35 ddi dd % trfdfe: % fdFdfdfed 
TR- ’ErtTTfdfe ^ sntTdi, !mfcT : — 

(36) pjftfddT, 

jf-t-f+d ?rfd#3r, mrd 
tsfV sf*FirT% c^TP?, 

?f^TT, Sfc I 

[dVrr 33 ( 42)-^o ifl-o rio/69)] 

S.O. 4663. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 72 of the Indian 
Patents and Designs Act, 1911 (2 of 1911), the Central Government hereby 
appoints the Director of Industries and. Supplies, Rajasthan, Jaipur, as an authority 
for the said section, and makes the following further amendment in the notiflea- 
tlon of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and Industry 
No. S.R.O. 681, dated the 23rd March, 1955, namefy 

In the said notification, after Item (37) and the entry relating thereto, the 
following item and entry shall be inserted, namely : — ■ 

"(38) The Director of Industries and Supplies, Jaipur, Rajasthan”. 

[No. F. 33(43)-PP&D/89,l 
Wt*’ 4663. — RTtrftr ddT wftjfddd, 1 9 1 1 ( 1 9 1 1 Td 

2) 7 2 ^STTTtrrd qq Rdld |Tt, ^TdfVd Tx^p^nT 

fd^TIdi ddl d'dTd, Tt ^yfwfBTd NRT dd arfaddfi fddEFd | 

rUdT ^TTFT ddddd % ddl d^>T RdTHd dftl^ d dT tmi 

OTTo Wto 681, 2.3 HP#, 1955, if fdTdftrfed STTd dtfttjd 

^dfdprfisTd NfsrgddT Jr, dd ( 37 ) mr ddJr difdd srfdfe: tr 
fdxdfdfidcr dfdfxd fn'f^ie dprfv, ^rdfrj; : — 

"(38) fd^Tpp , ddl ddTN , dTTJd, TFsr^dTd l” 

[do 33 ( 43 )-^ocfVol^ ^ 0 / 69 ] 



5105 the gazette of INDIA: NOV. 22. ) 969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [PaktII— 


S.O. 4664. — -In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 72 of the Indian 
Patents and Designs Act, 1911 (2 of 1911), the Central Government hereby 
appoints the Joint General Manager, Heavy Machine BuUdihg Plant, Heavy 
Engineering Corporation Limited, Dhurwa. Ranchi, Bihar, as an authority for the 
purpose of the said Section, and makes the following further amendment in the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry No. S.R.O. 681, dated the 23rd March, 1955, namely:^ 

In the said notification, after item (36) and the entry relating thereto, the 
following item and entry shall be added, namely : — 

“(37) The Joint General Manager, Heavy Machine Building Plant, Heavy 
Engineering Corporation Limited, Dhurwa, Ranchi, Bihar”, 

[No. F. 33(44)-PP&D/69 ] 
H AROUND AS, Under Secy 


4664. — 4rftr0m, 1 9 1 1 (l91) TT 2) 
^ srnj 7 2 % STTT Tr fci, 

|«ft Rsifld' I ft ifrfRirfTtT fH “ , ^ TTTfHf^cr 

■aXTT % ’FT tnftPFT^t | RTTPC % 

Rar^ET ^ 681,f^rT 2 3 RT'4, 1 9 5 5 R 

mif 

^qfTfHfecT srftr^dT ft r? lio ( 36) cr^ir %■ fRur- 

fHfiJd SrfRfe ^"tfr RTtTRT, RRtd ; — 

"( 37 ) RRWd 

RjfTR f^sftfRRfUT sFTTTt^d IJRf, TNf, 

r 

[Ro qqio 33( 44)-'fto ^fto rtv^t[o/69\ 


(Department o< Intenial Trade) 

Nein Delhi, the 12tb Nonembcr 1969 

8 O 4666 —In exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the Forward 
(Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1962 (74 of 1952), and of aU other powers enabling it 
in that behalf, the Central Government hereby rescinds the. notification of the 
Government of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S.O. 075, 
dated the 25th April, 1968 as amended by notification No. S.O. 1269, dated the 1st 

June. 1959. 10(9)-IT/69.] 

P. SITARAMAN, Dy. Secy. 

(wRTi^flR mrrnt f^Rin) 

12 RRPSR 1969 


URoglTo 4665. — RnUTRfR^r (fRfdW-T) Rf^fRlTR, 19 52 ('19 52 ^1 74) 
!^trrTT 2 7 sru f^rRH RR4 RT^f RRf R'RinfsREft 

RRRRtRRiT^ gh,, Rff’l'o'R rY?; ^ 

RrtRfRRT Ro RJo RTo ]2 69,dTfr^ 1 19 59 aKT RRT R^fRcT RfR^RRl Ro 

RRo RTc 6 7 5. RlfllR 2 5 19 59 Tl PRaam ^ I 

[Ro 10(9)-Rlto ^ro/69] 
>o ^ftjrTTRd, JR Rf%R I 




SEC,3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/AORAHAYANA I, 1891 5107 


(Departmeat of Industrial Development) 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 6th November 1969 


8.0. 4666/IDRA/6/'l/69. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of 
the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1961 (65 of 19.61), read with 
rules 2, 4 and 6 of the Development Council (Procedural) Pules, 1952, the Central 
Government hereby appoints, for a period of two years with effect from the date 
of this Order, the following persons to be members of the Development Council 
lor the scheduled Industries engaged in the manufacture or production of Inorganic 
Chemicals, in place of members appointed under the Government of India, late 
Ministry of Industry Order No. S.O. /IDRA/6/2/6G dated the 12th December, 
1986, as amended from time to time, whose term of office has expired by efflux 
of time or otherwise :■ — 


Development Council for Inorganic Chemical Industries 

1. Shri Charat Ram, M/s. Delhi Cloth and General Mills Limited, Bara 

Hindu Rao, Delhi — Chairman. 

2. Shri D- S. Seth, Directot-in-charge, Tata Chemicals Limited, Bombay. 

2. Dr, D. N. Daruwala, Divisional Manager, M/s- Larsen and Toubro 
Limited, Ballard Estate, Bombay. 

4. Dr. B. V. Bhoota, M/s. Dorr Oliver India Limited, 15, Queen’s Road, 
Estate, Bombay-1. 

5- Shri D. R. Morarjl, M/s- Dharamsl Morarji Chemical Corporation 
Limited, Bombay-1. 

6. Shri P- C. Jain, M/s. Dhrangadhra Chemical Limited, Bombay. 

7- Dr. S. K. Mukherjee, Fertilizer Corporation of India, Bombay. 

8- Shri S. S. Kanoria, Kanoria Chemicals Limited, Colcutta-1. 

9- Shri P. K. Sen, C/o. M/s. A- V. B. Limited, Durgapur-6 (West Bengal). 
10, Shri R, V. Ramanl, Managing Director, Mettur Chemical and Industrial 

Corporation Lirnlted, Mettur Dam, R. S. (Tamil Nadu). 


11- Shri J. Simon, M/s. E. I. D. Parry Limited, Madras. 

12. Shri M. M- Gurunath, Salt Consultant, 3, T^akshmana Chetty Street. 

Madras. 

13. Shri S. K. Vakil, M/s. Saurashtra Chemicals Limited, Porbandar (Gujarat). 

14. Shri B, R. Kamdar, M/s. Digvijay Salt Works, Jamnagar. 

16. Shri T. V, Srivastava, Managing Director, Gujarat State Fertilizer Corpo- 
ration, Batoda- 

16. Shri B. B. Ramiah, Joint Managing Director (Tech.), Andhra Sugar 

Limited, Tanuku (A- P.). 

17. Dr. K. S. Chari, Director, Technical Institute, Fertilizer Association of 

India, 85, Sundar Nagar, New Delhi. 

13. Shri Paul Pothan, Managing Director, Indian Farmer Fertilizer Corpora- 
tion Limited, New Delhi. 

19. Shri M. K. K. Nalr, Managing Director, M/s. Fertilizer and Chemical 

Travancore Limited, Alwaye. 

20. Shri D. G. Rao, Fertilizer Corporation of India Limlled, P & D Division, 

‘Sindri. 

21 Shri ,J. D-. Adhya, Managing Director, Hindustan Zinc Limited, Zinc 
Smelter, .Debarl (Udaipur). 


22. Shri B. Ramachandran, Director, State Trading Corporation of India, 
New Delhi. 

23 Dr K N Synghal Soil and Fertilizer Specialist, Ministry of F. A. C, D, 

■ and C., (Department of Agriculture), New Delhi, 

24.: Shtl M. N. Kale, Deputy Secretary, Ministry of P. & C. and M. M. (Deptt. 
of Chemicals), New Delhi. 

24 Shri K L Gambhir, Salt Commissioner, (Ministry of Industrial Develop- 

ment. Internal Trade and Company Affairs), Jaipur. 



5 Io 8 the gazette of INDIA; NOV. 22. 1 969/ AGRAHA YANA 1, 1891 [Part II_ 


26- Shri K. Venkataraman. Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Industrial Develop- 
ment, Internal Trade and Company Affairs, (Department of Industrial 
Development), New Delhi. 

27. Shri P. K. Seshan, Industrial Adviser (Chemicals), D.G.T.D., New Delhi, 

2. Shri P. K, Seshan, Industrial Adviser (Chemicals), D.G.T-D., New Delhi, is 
hereby appointed to carry on the functions of the Secretary to the said Develop- 
ment Council. 


[No. 13(15)/68-L.C.] 
R, C. SETHI, Under Secy. 


(Department of Industrial Development) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 11th November 1909 

S.O. 4667/IDIIA/18G/69, — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 18G 
and section 29 of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 
1951), and of all other power.s enabling It in this behalf, the Central Government 
hereby make.s the following Order fiu’ther to amend the Cement Control Order, 
1907, namely; — 

1. (1) This Order may be called the Cement Control (Third Amendment) 
Order, 1969. 

(2) It shall come Into force on the date of its publication in the Official 
Gazette. 

2, In the Schedule to the Cement Control Order, 1967, after Item No. 1 and the 
entry relating thereto, the following shall be Inserted, namely: — 

“I A. Assam Cements, Cherrapunjl 123.50” 

[No. 1-33/68-Cem.] 
G. HAMANATHAN, Under Secy. 


(Department of Industrial Development) 

(Indian Standards Institution) 

New Delhi, the 3rd November 1969 

S. O. 466S. — In pursuance of sub-rcgulation (4) of Regulation 14 of the Indian Standards 
Institudon (Geriiflcntion Marks), Rcguladons, 1955 as amended from time to time the Indian 
Standarls Institudon, hereby, notifies that rhe licence, particulars of which are given below, 
has been cancelled with effect from i November, 1969 : 


Licence No, and Name & A'ldreis of the Article/Process Relevant Indian 

Date Liceinsee Covered by the Licence Standard 


CM/L-464 24-10-1962 M/s. Geo Industries & BHC Water Dispcr- IS ; 562 — 1958 
Insecticides (India) Pvt. siblc Powder Con- 
Ltd., Field No. 82/3(3) centrates. 

Sathankneju, kaladipet, 

Madras-19. 


[No. CMD/ 55 : 464 .] 


SEC.3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5109 


New Delhi, the 16th November 1969 

S. O. 4669, — 111 pursuance of sub-te^lation (4) of regulation 14 of the Indian Standard 
Institutions Ccnification marks Regulations 1955, as amended 'from time to time, the Indian 
Standards Institution hereby notifies that licence No. CM/L-2006, p rticulars of which are 
given below, has been cancelled with effect from 25th Sept. 1969 at the request of the firm : 


Licence No. & 
Date 

Name and address of 
the licensee 

Articlc/Process cove- Relevant Indian 
red by the licence Standard 

cancelled 

CM/L-2006 30-6-1969 M/s. Shriram Vinyl & 
Chemical Industries, 
Shriramnagar, Kola-4 
(Rajasthan). 

Rigid plain P. V. C. IS : 2509-1963 Spe- 
Conduits for Elec- cification for Rigid 
trical Installations Non-Metallic Cend- 
Outcr Dia 25 mm uita for Electrical 

Installations. 



[No. MDD/55 ;20 o 6.] 



(Dr), a. K. GUPTA, 

Deputy Director General (Martks) 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 4th November 1969 

S.O. 4670.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6(1) of the Cinema- 
tograph Act, 1962 and sub-rule (3) of rule 8 read with sub-rule 2 of rule 9 of 
Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby re- 
appoints Smt. R. Shamanta as a member of the Advisory Panel of the Central 
Board of Film Censors at Madras with immediate effect upto 31st December, 1969, 

[No. ll/19/69-F(C).] 


New Delhi, the 5th Wewember 1969 

S.O. 4671. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the Cinemato- 
graph Act. 1952 and sub-rule (3) of rule 8 read with sub-rule 2 of rule 9 of the 
Cinernatograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri Bhogilal Chlmanlal Shah after consultation with Central Board of Film 
Onsors as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Bombay with 
immediate effect, upto Slst December, 1969. 


[No. ll/12/69-F(C).] 
VIRENDRA. D. VYAS, Dy, Secy, 


ORDERS 


New Delhi, the Ith November 1969 


S.O. 4672.— In pursuance of the directions issued under the provisions of each 
of the enactments specified in the Fir.st Schedule annexed heieto, the Central 
Government after considering the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board 
Bombay hereby approves the films specified In column 2 of the Second Schedule 
annexed hereto in Gujarati to be of the description specified against each in 
eolumn 6 of the said Second Schedule. 


The First Schedule 


(1) Sub-Section 4 of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematoerauh 
Act, 1952 (Central Act XXXVII of 19.52), 


(2) Sub-Section (3) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas 

(Regulation) Act, 1953 (Bombay Act XVII of 1953). 

(3) Sub-Section (4) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Saurashtra Cinemas 

(Regulation) Act, 1953 (Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953). 




5110 the gazette of INDIA: NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1891 [Part 11— 


The Second Schedule 


SI. Title ofthefilm Length Nameofthe Name of the Whether u Scientific 

No. 35mm Applicant Producer film or a film in- 

tended for educa- 
tional purposes or a 
film dealing with 
new.s 'and current 
events or a docu- 
mentary film. 


T 


2 


4 


6 


1 The Giver and The 609- 60M Sh. Prakash Arora, Director of Documentary film 

Taker. Arora Films, Information, (for release in 

Arora Hospital, Govi.ofGuja- Guj ’rat Circuit 

Khar, Bombay- rat Ahmedabad only). 

52. 

2 Muhitichitra Number 249- 94M Director of Information, Govern- Film delaing with 

ri3. ment of Gujarat, Sachivaluya, news and current 

Ahmedabad. events _ (for release 

in Gujarat circuit 
only). 


[No. F. 24/l/69-FP.App.l400.] 

rrf 7 TTFTT 1969 

tT^o 5fto 4B7-2: — KPT JFTtT , t 

?TftrfFTF % ^ Wlfl fr?! frelifff % ErTmT, ^P?tTTlLTrT, PfiFT 

gpi, 1%'Trfoff TT fTTP; (TT^STTf, ^TT% KPl "■Fft ^ 

%tfpT % TTHK 6 [W ?4IT % TTfft ^ : 

( 1) THfTT StfNpFTR', 1952 ( 1952TiT 3 7 TT irftrPFHr ) tTKI 1 2 T?!' 
TftBT-TnT ( 4) fr«TT mTT 1 e i 

(2) TrrtjfyiTT 1.953 (.19 5 3.Tr_175L^^f ^rfijpFHT) 

^ sffTr 5 Tft iTT-TTO ( 3,) cf«if am 9 l' 

(3) TltfT^' fF%Fr FfapFTF 1953.( 1.953 ^ 17. FT) 

FfafFFF 4?r aftr 5 TitTF-aiTT (4) fr«ir am 9" i 



Sec. 3(ii)l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 51 U 




Pe?»T TT ^ TT Tftr fTq’fTT TR 

TR ?TRTf 

35 fiFoRfo 


^TF tarf^^F Per I ITT 
f5T5TT Pfi?iT t 

TT ERF=TrT ^fFr 
tfhtPtt; 

f^lt ITT ¥T^S[I=^ 

Per I 1 


1 2 3 4 5 


6 


1 


Pr fiTFTT FIR 60 9, 60 iift ?fR FTRIfT g;^TF Pt^VTT, 
Pi' ^rft«T, '5TTt3T ITFTOT TRRIT, 

Pe?)R, WTtfT fl^HTTilK 
^TTFTFT, <91 (, 

^E^-52 

H'r^FrTpETT 2 49.94 IJW 
T^TF 113 PPiT iT^TTA HTTFrr, 
irpRTiM . 
ir?R^KI< 


pE?tT^(if5r- 
<.id Trf%s Pvll^ 


^RIRTT RRfiTTF 

J 

^iTr?flr FEt Per 
(%^ IJ3TTTT TrfTFS 

it pRpsr T-Tit % 
fRTj) 1 


[TTRF 'ETo 2411|6F>TrT0 fro tItIw 1400) 

S.O, 4613,-111 pursuance of the directions issued under the provision of the 
enactment specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto, the Central Government 
after con.sidering the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board, Bombay hereby 
approves the film specified In column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed hereto 
in Hindi to be of the description specified against it in column 6 of the said 
Second Schedule. 


The First Schedule 

(1) Sub-Section (4) of Section 5 of Uttar Pradesh Cinemas (Regulation) 
Act, 1955 (Uttar Pradesh Act No. .3 of 1956). 


The Second Schedule 


Si. Title of the film Length 

No. 35 mm 

Name of the 
Applicant 

Name of the 
Producer 

Whether a Scientific 
film or a film in- 
tended for eeduca- 
tional purposes or a 
film dealing with 
news & current 
events or a docu- 
mentary film. 

12 3 

4 

5 

6 

I, Uitarakhand (Hindi) 355' 00 

Sh. Dhirendra 
Pande, 

Films Officer, 
Dtc. of Informs 
tion Govt, of 
U.p., Lucknow 

Director of 
Information, 
Govt, of U.p. 
- Lucknow 

Documentary film, 
(for release in U.P. 
circuit only), 
only) 


[No, F. 24/l/69-FP.App.l40l.] 



5112 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22, 1 969/ AORAHA YANA 1, 1891 [Part II— 


4 673 TI«T T'f)' TTT t fqsrffcf srfElfTTF % 

% ?F^Etcr ^ fell ^ ^ ^^(X, TTT^TT g>i, JffV f^TFI- 

TT f^r^rT htkt 2 ii Tf 

fTI?!! ^ T^I% ^TT % ^TTf^TT ?I%T, f'STT^r fT^Tor grq-^ :jTrT ?H- 

g;^ % TFTT 6 T fen fTi ?f|-frn 'PTcft t : — 

lTJr(T 

(1) (fefern) ?rfsrfem, 1955 (19.56 ^ rftnft 

sr^5T !TfnfenT) *ffV nm 5 Tft Tnernr ( 4) 1 


^BnnaTT fe?»T 
spr nrn 


fe^n ^ 

35 feo feo 


5tnn?T ^r tit fenfcn ^ niT ttt tjuferr fepr 

I qr ftraiT 

fepn t nr 

TET'niT sntT 
Ti'jrfn'p th:- 
nrwf -^ffV fepT 
I nr 
fepT I 


1 2 3 

4 

5 

6 

1 TfTTPjy 3 5 .5 , 0 0 

(fffe) 

qri, 

fepT qftmfV, 
g-^dr fdr^vr'ti', 
Trn: JI^W RT- 
WT, ?raT3; 

gw Minr, 
TfTT tlfer RT' 
jfriT, 

fecT 

tferr Bfej % 


[?feno n>To 24/1/69-TTTo 'fto nfew 1401] 


S.O. 4674. — In pursuance of the directions issued under the provision of the 
tnactment specified In the First Schedule annexed hereto the Central Government 
efter considering the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board, Bombay 
hereby approves the film specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed 
hereto in Telugu to be of the description specified against It in column B of the 
»aid Second Schedule. 


The FfRST Sch1)Dule 

(1) Sub-Section (3) of Section 5 of the Andhra Pradesh Cinemas (Regula- 
tion) Act, 1955 (President’s Act 4 of 196.5). 


Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF JNDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5113 


The Second Schedule 


S . Title of the film Length Name of the Name of the Whethet a Scientific 
No. 35 mra Applicant Producer film or a film in- 

tended for educa- 
tional purposes or 
a film dealing with 
news and current 
events or a docu- 
mentary film 


I 2 

3 4 

5 

6 

1 Milk Milk Milk 

(Telugu) 

336- igM ShriB.R. Sathyan, 
R.S. Movies, 
3/i4SHyterba8ti, 
Secunderabad, 
Andhra Pradesh 


Documentary film 
(for release in the 

Tclugu’i speaking 
areas) 


[No. r. 24 /l/ 69 -FP.App.l 402 .] 
K. K. KHAN, Under Secy. 


qto 4674 . ^ STtSw 

% JEiTfiT %% ^ ?ns!TT , ftsw 

^ %TTfT!?flr R f’T^TT , 1T^8TU, Rf% 

fjtfk !PT^ % ReHT 2 ^ 'fTfSTT FTHR fr%r , f^m^T 

f^r^RT fefk %TTvHT 6^1 feTTf?TT EpTtfT t : — 

{ 1) mfu sr^ frr^ ?rfaf^ 1955 ( 1955 r U'^qfd' 

R 4) ^ 9 KT 5^ ^-arn ,3. 

fffcTVlT 

R ^ R TTT wn’ tnif^ t iff 

^iw Tf ftrsTT f'TiPR' t qr 

3 5fiTO»ftO TTtT HfiTVTT wk gnrfiw 

^ fk^T t ’TT 

1 2 3 4 5 6 

1. fil^, fiTvT 3 36.19 MY ttTTTo (^tSTH 

?r«iTt6‘, mT. ^TECT^rkf ^ 

iT^r. fn^) 

3/145, 

?1FWJT^?T 

[^fSlIT TiT'* 24 / 1/69 ITT. r. cfrt,„rpfTfwi!C3 1 402] 
%o t^TP", 51R I 





5114 GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/AGRA HA YANA 1, 1891 [Part II— 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING AND WORKS, HOUSING 
AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT 

(Department of Health) 

New Delhi, the 1th November 1969 

S.O. 5675. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8A of the Aircraft 
Act, 1934, (22 of 1934), the Central Government hereby makes the following Rules 
further to amend the Indian Aircraft (Public Health) Rules, 1954, the same 
having been previously published as required by section 14 of the said Act, 
namely 

1. These rules may be called the Indian Aircraft (Public Health) Amendment 
Rules, 1969. 

2. In the Indian Aircraft (Public Health) Rules, 1964; 

(i) In rule 1, the word “Indian” shall be omitted; 

(ii) In rule 48, for the words “the District Magistrate for the place of death’’, 

the words “the District Magistrate or the Deputy Commissioner or 
the Chief Presidency Magistrate or the Coroner within whose jurisdic- 
tion the death took place” .shall be substituted. 

[No. 34-1/64-I.H.] 
S. SRINIVASAN, Under Secy. 


(Department of Health) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 1th November 1969 

S.O. 4676. — Whereas by the notification of the Government of India In the 
late Mlni.stry of Health No. 16-5/62-MI, dated the 23rd July, 1962, the Central 
Government has directed that the Medical qualification “M.D-” awarded by the 
University of Georgetown, Washington, U.S-A. shall be recognised medical qualifi- 
cation for the purposes of the Indian Medical Council Act 1950 (102 of 1956); 

And, whereas, Dr, (Miss) Eileen Niedfield who possesses the said qualification 
Is for the time being attached to the Holy Family Hospital, Mandar, Ranchi 
District lor the purposes of charitable work in the country; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of clause (c) of the proviso to sub-section ('1) 
of section 14 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby specifies 

(i) a period upto the .31st Decemher, 1969 or 

(11) the period during which Dr. (Miss) Eileen Niedfield is attached to the 
said Hqly Family Hospital, Mandar, Ranchi District, 

whichever is shorter, as the period to which the medical practice by the aforesaid 
doctor shall be limited. 

[No. F. 19-6/68-MPT.] 
R, MURTHI, Under Secy. 


(Department of Works Housing and Urban Development) 

New Delhi, the 15th November 1969 

S.O. 4677,— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Public 
Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1958 (32 of 1958), the Cen- 
tral Government hereby appoints the officer mentioned in column (1) of the 
table below, being officer of the Bokaro Steel Limited equivalent to the rank of a 
gazetted officer of Government, to be Estate Officer for the purposes of the said 
Act who shall exercise the powers conferred, and perform the duties imposed on 
Estate Officers by or under the said Act within the local limits of his juri^lctlon 
in respect of the public premises specified in the corresponding entry in Column 
(2) of the said table. 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5115 



Thu Tablu 



DesJgna i.iii of 
offlvCr 

Categories ot public premises and 
juri sdiciion 

local 

limits of 

(I) 

(2) 



Town .\d'.mniStra.or 

Bokaro Steel Limiicd 

Boksro Steel City, 

District Dhanbadli 

Bihar. 

Premises bclongmg to and under the 
adniiiiSirative control of Bokaro Steel Limited 
which have been acquired by the State of Bihar 
for Bokaro Steel out of portion of Chas 

Police Station and the portion of Hazaribagh 
District which has been irairsf erred to Dhanbad 
District. 


[No. F. 21011(4)/6G-Pol.IV,] 
T. K. BALASUBRAMANIAM, 


Dy. & Director of Estates and 
Ex-Officio Under Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS 
(P. & X, Board) 

New Delhi, the 12th November 1969 

S.O. 4678 — -In exercise of powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of the 
Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules to amend the Indian 
Posts and Telegraphs Inspectors of Mall Motor Service and Head Clerks of Mall 
Motor ^rvlce Recruitment Rules, 1967, namely; — 

1, Short Title and Commencement. — (1) These rules may be called the Indian 
Posts and Telegraph.s Inspectors of Mall Motor Service and Head Clerks of MaU 
Motor Service Recruitment (Amendment) Rules, 1969; 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication In the Official 
Gazette. 

2. In the Schedule to the Posts and Telegraphs Inspectors of Mail Motor Service 
and Head Clerks of Mall Motor Service Recruitment Rules, 1967, In the entries In 
columns 7 and 10, for the flgufe and word ‘Tst January” the figure and word ’’1st 
July" shall be substituted. 


[No. 5/53/69-5PB. II-J 

R. RAJAGOPALAN, 
Assistant Director General (SPN). 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR, EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 7th November 1969 

S.O. 4679. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, (No. .3), Dhanbad, in the Industrial dis- 
pute between the employers In relation to the management of Kharkharee Colliery 
of Messrs Bharat Mining Corporation Limited, and their workmen, which was re- 
ceived by the Central Government on the 3rd November, 1969. 



5Ii6 the gazette of INDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [Part TI- 


THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAX- (NO. 3) 

AT DHANBAD 

Reference No. 8 of 1969 

Present : — 

Shri Sachidanand Slirha, M.A.M.L., Presiding Officer: 

Parties ; 

Employers In relation to the Management of Kharkharee Colliery. 

And 

Their workmen. 

Appearances ; 

For employers: Shri S. S- Mukherjee, Advocate. 

For workmen: Shri S. N. Mi.shra, General Secretary, 

Industry : Coal State : Bihar. 


Dhanhad, the 21th of Octher 1969 
AWAR-D 

1- The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers In relation to the rrlanagement of Kharkharee polliery of 
Messrs Bharat Mining Corporation Limited, Post Office Kharkharee, District Dhan- 
bad and their workmen, by its order No. 2/240/68-LRII dated the 18th of January, 
1969 referred under section 10(l)(d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 to this 
Tribunal for adjudication the dispute In respect of the matters spedfled In tke 
Schedule annexed thereto. The Schedule Is extracted below: — 

Schedule 

“1. Whether the action of the management of Kharkharee Colliery of Messrs 
Bharat Mining Corporation Limited Post Office Kharkharee, District 
Dhanbad in transferring Sarvashri Shlwajl Singh, Nand Klshore Singh, 
Samad Selkh and Jadu Mahato, Mining Sirdars to the Dakra Bukhuka 
Colliery owned by Messrs United Karanpura Collieries Limited with 
effect from the 7th August, 1968 was justmed? 

2. If not, to what relief are the workmen concerned entitled? 

3. Whether the refu.sal of the management to pay wages to the four workmen, 

Sarvashri Shlwaji Singh, Nand Klshore Singh, Samad Seikh and Jadu 
Mahato, Mining Sirdars for the period of their idleness from Ihg 7th 
August, 1968 to the 12th October, 1968 (Both day.s inclusive) was justi- 
fied? 

4. If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled? 

5. Whether the action of the management In refusing employment to St^l 

Shyam Narayan Jadav, Mining Sirdar with effect from the 7th August, 
1968 was justified? 

6. If not, to what relief is the workman entitled?” 

2. The Dlrcetor, Kharkharee Colliery, Bharat Mining Corporation Ltd. filed, 
written statement on 20th March, 1969 Shri S. N. Mlsra, General Secretary, Khar- 
kharee Ganeshpur Labour Union filed written statement on behalf of the workmen 
on 4th June, 1969. It is unnecessary to state the respective cases of the parties 
because the dispute has now been settled amicably. They have filed a compromise 
petition duly verified by the Director, Kharkharee colliery, Bharat Mining Corpora- 
tion Ltd. on behalf of the employer and by Sri S. N. Mishra, General Secretary, 
Kharkharee Ganeshpur Labour Union on behalf of the workmen. According to the 
terms of compromise the concerned workmen S/Shrl Shlwajl Singh, Nand Kishore 
Singh, Samed Selkh, Jadu Mahato and Shyam Narayan Jadav have since joined 
Kharkharee Colliery and the period from 7th August, 1968 till they are joining 
will be treated as if they were on leave for the purpose of their continuity of service 
only. The concerned workmen S/Shrl Shlwaji Singh, Samad Selkh and Jadu 
Mahato will be paid 30 (Thirty) days wages each as an Ex-gratia payment for the 
period from 7th August, 1968 to their respective dates of joining service. S/Shri 
Nand Ki.shore Singh and Shyam Naraln Jadav will be paid each 49 (Forty five) 
days wuge.s as an Ex-gratia Pa.yment for the period from 7th August, 1968 till 
their respective dates of joining service. The concerned workmen S/Shrl Shlwajl 



Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5117 


Singh, Samad Seikh, Jadu Mahato Euid Nand Klshore Singh and Shyam Narain Jadav 
will be treated as If present in their duties In the period of their idleness for the 
purpose of service continuity and they will get all other facilities (Leave, Bonus 
etc.) linked with the attendance and the aforesaid amount will be paid within 16 
days of this settlement. The terms are fair and satisfactory and the same are ac- 
cepted. 

3. Let the reference be disposed of in terms of the compromise Annexure "A” 
which will form part of the award. The award now be submitted to the Central 
Government under section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

(Sd.) Sachidana'Md Sinha 

Presiding Officer. 


Annexure “A" 

BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER. CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL-CUM-LABOUR COURT NO. 3 DHANBAD. 

Reference No- 8 op 1969 

Parties ; — Employers In relation to the Management of Kharkharee Colliery of M/s 
Bharat Mining Corporation Ltd. 


And 


Their Workmen. 

The parties above named beg to submit that without prejudice to their respec- 
tive contentions contained in the written statement the present dispute has been 
amicably settled between the parties on the following terms ; — 

1. That S/Shri Shlwajl Singh, Nand Klshore Singh, Samad Seikh, Jadu Mahato 
and Shyam Narain Jadav have since joined Kharkharee Colliery and the period 
from 7th August, 1968 till they are joining will be treated as If they were on leave 
for the purpose of their continuity of Service only. 

2. That S/Shri SMwaji Singh, Samad Seikh and Jadu Mahato will be paid 
30 (Thirty) days’ wages each as an Ex-gratia payment for the period from 7th 
August, 1968 to their respective dates of joining service. 

3. That S/Shrl Nand Klshore Singh and Shyam Narain Jadav wRl be paid each 
45 (Forty Five) days wages as an Ex-gratta payment for the period from 7th 
August, 1068 till their respective dates of joining service. 

4. That S/Shri Shlwajl Singh, Samad Seikh, Jadu Mahato and Nand Klshore 
Singh and Shyam Narain Jadav will be treated as present In their duties In the 
period of their Idleness for the purpose of service continuity and they will get all 
other facilities (Leave, Bonus etc.) linked with the attendance. 

5. That the above payment will be paid within 15 days of this settlement. 

6. That the above terms of settlement finally resolves all the disputes pending 
between the parties. 

7. That the parties will hear their respective costs of this proceeding. 

It is, therefore, prayed that this settlement may kindly be recorded and an 
Award passed in terms thereof. 

For Workmen. For Employer 

(Sd.) Illegible (Ed) Illegible 

The General Secretary, Director 

Kharkharee Oaneshpur Kharkharee Colliery. 

Labour Union. Bharat Mining Corporation Limited. 

P.O. Maheshpur. 

Distt. Dhanhad. 


[No. 2/240/68-LR.II.l 


5Ii8 the gazette of INDIA: NOV, 22. 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [Part II— 


S.O. 4680. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1047 (14 
of 1947), (he Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dispute bet- 
ween the ernployers in relation to the management of North Jhagrakhand Colliery- 
Post Office Jhagrakhand Colliery, District Surguja (Madhya Pradesh), and their 
workmen, which was received by the Central Government on the 1st Novehaber, 
1969. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL-CUM- 
LABOUR COURT, JABALPUR 


Dated October 24, 1909 


Present : — 

Shri G. C. Agarwala, Presiding Officer. 

Case No. CGIT/LC(R)(34) of 1069 


Parties: 

Employers In relation to the management of North Jhagrakhand Colliery, 
Post Office Jhagrakhand Colliery District Surguja (M.P.) 


Tb. 

Their workmen represented through the Azad Koyala Shramik Sabha, Jhagra- 
khand Colliery, Distt. Surguja (M.P.). 


Appearances : 

For employers — Shrl G. R. Bhandari,' Group Personnel Officer, Jhagrakhand 
Collieries. 

For workmen — Shrl Abhiman Singh President, Azad Koyala Shramik Sabha 
Jhagrakhand Colliery, 

Industry; Coal Mine District; Surguja (M.P.). 


AWARD 

By Notification No. 5/14/69/LRII dated 21st August, 1969, the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment), 
Government of India, referred the following matter of dispute as stated in the 
schedule to the order of reference to this Tribunal, for adjudication ; 

Matter of Dispute 

“Whether keeping in view of the recommendations of the Wage Board in 
Appendix Vl at page, 54, Volume II of the Central Wage Board for 
Coal Mining Industry the demand of the Azad Koyala Shramik Sabha, 
Post Office Jhagrakhand Colliery for placing Shri K. N. Pandey, Clerk 
Grade III as Grade II In North Jhagrakhand Colliery, Is justified? If 
so, to what relief is the workman entitled ? 

2. The dispute relates to the fitment of a workman, Sri K. N. Pandey, Clerk who 
had been placed in Grade III. The demand of the workman and the Union, howeverj 
was that he .should be fitted in Grade II In consequence of Central Wage Board 
recommendations Before, however, statements of claim could be filed parties com- 
promise the dispute and a petition of compromise settlement which has been veri- 
fied before me was filed on 23rd October 1969 and Is annexure to the award. The 
Union agreed to the position that Sri K, N. Pandey has been correctly placed in 
Clerical Grade III. At the same time, the management agreed to give him Grade II 
In recognition to his past services with a basic salary of Rs. 226/- per month with 
effect from 1st November, 1969. The dispute Is thus satisfactorily resolved. An 
award in terms of compromise petition is hereby recorded, 

(Sd.) G. C, Agarwala, 

presiding Officer. 

24-10-1969. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5119 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, JABAEPII.R 

In the matter of Reference No. CGIT/LC/(R)(34) of 1969 

Parties; Employers in relation to North Jhagrakhand Collieiy of M/s Jhagrakhand 
Collieries Pvt. Ltd., P.O. Jhagrakhand Colliery, Distt; Surguja (M.P.): 

Vs. 

Their Workmen 


The joint petition on behalf of the employers and the workmen most respect- 
fully sheweth ; 

1. That the parties have settled the above dispute on the following terms: 

(a) The union accepts that considering the nature of work performed by Sri 

K. N. Pandey Clerk, Noth Jhagrakhand Colliery he has been cor- 
rectly placed in Clerical Grade III. 

(b) The management in recognition of the past service of Sri Pandey, agrees 

to put him In clerical grade II with starting basic salary of Rs. 226/- 
per month with effect from 1st November, 1969. 

(c) The union agrees that Sri K. N. Pandey shall work in any job falling 

under clerical Grade II as may be a.ssigned by the management from 
time to time. 

(d) The workman has no other claim whatsoever against the management, 

(e) The parties will bear their own cost of the proceedings. 

2. The parties pray that the Hon’ble Tribunal may be pleased to give its award 
In the present Reference In the aforesaid terms. 

Signed at Jhagrakhand Oolllery on the 18th day of October, 1969. 

Representing Workmen Representing Employers 

(Sd.) Abtiiman Singh (Sd.) G. R. Bhandari 


President, 

Azad Koyla Shramik Sabha, 
Jhagrakhand ColUery, 

(Sd.) B. Bobal 
18-10-1969. 


18-10-1969, 

Group Personnel Officer, 
Jhagrakhand Collieries. 
(Sd.) G. R. Bhandar 


General Secretary, 

Azad Koyala Shramik Sabha, 

Jhagrakhand Colliery, 

Dated 18th October, 1969 Verified 

(Sd.) B. Boral (Sd.) G. C. Agarwala 

23-10-1909. 23-10-1909. 

Part of Award 


(Sd.) G. C. Agarwala, 

Presiding Officer. 
24-10-1969. 
[No. 5/14/G9-LR.1I.] 

New Delhi, the 13th November 1969 


S.O. 4681.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of Ehri K 
Sharan, Arbitrator, Asansol, In the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the management of Ranipur Colliery of Messrs Equitable Coal Com 
pany Limited, Post Office Dlshergarh, District Burdwan and their workmen, which 
was received by the Central Government on the 31st October, 1969, 



5120 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22. 1969/ AGRAHA YANA 1, 1891 [PartII— 


BEFORE SHRI K. SHARAN, REGIONAL LABOUR COMMISSIONER (C), 

ASANSOL 

And 

Arbitrator 


Present ; — 

Shrl K. Sharan, Regional Labour Commiasloner(C), Asansol. 

Partibs; 

Employers In relation to Ranlpur Colliery of M/s. Equitable Coal Company 
Limited, P.O. Dlshergarh, District Burdwan. 

Vra. 

Their workmen represented by the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha (A.I.T.U.C,), 
P.O. Raniganj, District Burdwan. 

Appearances; 

For einployer — Lt. Col. S. P. Sharma, Chief Personnel Officer, M/s. Equit- 
able Coal Co. Ltd. 

For the workmen — Shrl Robin Chalterjee, Vice-President Colliery Mazdoor 
Sabha (AITUC), P.O. Raniganj, Burdwan. 

Industry; Coal Mine Distt: Burdwan (West Bengal). 

No. E. 1/1 (6) /60. Asansol, the 2^th October, 1969 

AWARD 

The Central Government, having received on the 24th September, 1969, a 
written agreement dated the 3rd September, 1969, between the employers In rela- 
tion to Ranlpur Colliery of M/s. Equitable Coal Co, Ltd., P.O. Dishergarh, Dist. 
Burdwan (hereinafter referred to as the management) and their workmen re- 
presented by the ColUery Mazdoor Sabha (AITUC), P.O. Raniganj, Dlst. Burdwan 
(hereinafter referred to as the Union) In pursuance of the provisions of sub-sec- 
tion (1) of Section lOA of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) referring 
the Industrial dispute between them, the specific matters In dispute being detailed 
below, to my arbitration and the Central Government being of the opinion that the 
Industrial dispute referred to above existed between the said management and 
their workmen, ordered publication of the said arbitration agreement In the 
Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (il) under Its order No. 6/68/69- 
LRII dated the 13th October, 1969: 

Specific matters in dispute 

"Whether the management of Ranlpur ColUery of M/s, Equitable Coal Com- 
pany Limited was justified In transferring the workmen named below from Ranl- 
pur ColUery to different coUleries/establlshments mentioned against the name of 
the respective workman? If not, to what relief are the workmen concerned en- 

tttledT 


Si. Na.ne of the 

No. workmen 

Designation 

Date of 

Order of 

transfer 

Transferred 

to 

I 2 

3 

4 

5 

I. Shri Banwarl 

Timber Mistry 

21-6-69 

Bejdih 

Colliery. 

2. Shri Kali Roy 

Machine Driver 

23-7-69 

Bejdih 

CoUiery, 

3. Shri Soshnath 

Pandey 

U/G. Trammer 

23-7-69 

Methani 

Colliery. 

4. Shri Bhagbat 

Chatterjee 

Electrician 

23-7-69 

Methani 

Colliery. 

5. Shri Gour Hari 

Roy 

W.O's Clerk 

23-7-69 

Agent’s 
Office at 
Methani” 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV. 22 , 1 969/AGRAHAYANA I, 1891 5121 


2. The representative of the management submitted to me a written statement 
dated 8th September 1969 which was received by me on 12th September 1969. The 
representative of the union did not submit any written statement. The parties 
were called upon to attend hearing at my office on 9th September 1969 but the 
hearing could not take place as the parties did not submit their written statement 
In this regard. However, the, hearing was finally adjourned to be held at my 
office on 15th September 1969 on which date Shrl Lt. Col. S. P. Sharma, Chlrf 
Personnel Officer appeared on behalf of the management and Shrl Robin Chatterjee, 
Vice-President, Colliery Maadoor Sabha (AITUC), Ranlganj appeared on behalf of 
the workmen. On 16th September 1969 the parties filed a joint petition of com- 
promise dated 12th September 1969 stating therein that the dispute was amicably 
settled between the parties on the terms Incorporated in the joint petition of 
compromise dated 12th September 1989 and that i might accept the terms of the 
settlement incorporated in the joint petition of compromise referred to above and 
pass my award accordingly. The terms of the settlement incorporated in the Joint 
petition of compromise dated 12th September 1969 were duly verified and brought 
on record. The terms of the settlement, Incorporated In the joint petition of 
compromise referred to above appear to me to be fair, reasonable and in the in- 
terest of the workmen concerned and as such I accept them. Accordingly, I make 
my arbitration award in terms of the joint petition of compromise dated 12th 
September 1969 and submit it to the Central Government under Section lOA of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. The joint petition of compromise in question Is 
annexed hereto and made part of the award. 


Sd./- K- Shahan, 

Regional Labour Commissioner (C), 
Asansol & Arbitrator. 


BEFORE THE AraiTRATOR SHRI K. SHARAN. REGIONAL LABOUR 
COMMISSIONER (CENTRAL), ASANSOL 


In the rnatter of Industrial dispute between the management of Ranlpur 
Burdwan*^^ M/s. Equitable Coal Co. Ltd., P. O. Dlshergarh, Distt. 


And 

Their workmen represented by the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha (AITUC), P.O. 
RaniganJ, Distt, Burdwan. 


The parties hereby Jointly submit that the dispute In question has been aml- 
•ably resolved by them on the following terms; — 

(1) The transfer orders Issued by the management of Ranipur Collie^ 

to S/Shrl Banwarl and Gour Hari shall be withdrawn by the 
management and they would be posted back to Ranlpur Colliery with 
effect from 15th October, 1969. 

(2) Shrl Kali Roy who has already joined at Bejdih Colliery as per his 

transfer order shall also be ordered to join back at Ranlpur Colliery 
within 7 days from date, 

(3) The union agrees not to press the case of other two workmen Involved 

in this dispute namely S/Shrl Sashnath Pandey and Bhagbat Chatter- 
jee who have already carried out the transfer orders. 

(4) The management further agrees that the period of absence of the three 

workmen namely S/Shrl Banwari, Gour Harl and Kali Roy after the 
servicing of the transfer orders to them shall be treated as leave without 
pay. 

(8) The Arbitrator may therefore, be pleased to award accordingly. 
Representing the employers Representing the Employees. 


Sd/- Lt. Col. S. P, Sharma (Retired) 
Chief Personnel Officer, 

M/s. Equitable Coal Co. Ltd., 

P. O. Dlshergarh, Distt. Burdwan. 
dated September 12, 1989. 


Sd/- Robin Chatterjee, Vice President, 
Colliery Mazdoor Sabha, P.O. RaniganJ, 
Burdwan, 


[No. 6/68/69-LR.n.] 



5122 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22. 1 % 9 /AGRAHAYANA 1 . 1891 LPart II— 


S.O. 4683 .~In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947J, the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Cen- 
tral Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur. In the Industrial Dispute between 
the employers in relation to the management of Datla West Colliery of the Amal- 
gamated Coalfields Limited, Post Office Parasia, District Chhindwara (M.P.), and 
their workmen, which was received by the Central Government on the 1 st Novem- 
ber. 1969 . 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUN AL-C UM- 
LABOUR COURT JABALPUR 

Dated October 27 , 1969 

Present ; 

Shrl G. C. Agarwala, — Presiding Officer. 

Case No. CGIT/LC(R)( 20 ) of 1969 

Parties : 

Employers in relation to the management of Datla West Colliery of the 
Amalgamated Coalflekbs IJd-, P.O. Para.sia, District Chhindwara (M.P.). 

Vs. 

Their workmen represented through the Satpura Koyala Khadan Mazdoor 
Congress, P.O- Junnardeo, District. — Chhindwara (M.P ). 

Appearances; 

For employers — Shrl S- D. Singh, Personnel Officer, The Amalgamated Coal- 
fields Ltd., The Pench Valley Coal Co. Ltd. 

For workmen — Shrl Ramnarayan Singh, General Secretary Satpura Koyala 
Khadan Mazdoor Congress. 

Industry: Coal Mine District: Chhindwara (M-P-). 


AWARD 

By Notification No. 5 / 24 / 68 -LRII dated 14 th April, 1969 , the Ministry of Labour, 
Employment & Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment), Govern- 
ment of India, referred the following matter of dispute us stated in the schedule to 
the order of reference to this Tribunal, lor adjudication: 

Matter of dispute 

Whether the management of the Datla West Collieries of Me.ssers Shaw Wallace 
and Company Limited, Post Oflice Parasia, District Chhindwara, Madhya Pradesh, 
was justified In categorising the workmen named below as dressers and paying an 
allowance of 2,6 paise per shift per worker for performing the duties of dresser In 


addition to Iheir duties as dressers? 

1. Kandhai T. No. ..... i 8 i 6 

2. Kauhai T. No. ..... 1031 

3. Rahman T. No. 1831 

4. Bhikha 1060 

5. Surat Singh ......... 9096 

6. Premchand ......... 1012 

7. Mahadeo 1806 

8. Chandidns 1823 

9. Ramcharan r8ii 

10. Mahip Singh 10^5 

11. Purvee ......... 1828 

12. Maharaj Singh ......... io ^7 

13. Raghunafh I 055 

14. Rameehwar ......... 1827 

15. Mahboob ......... 1824 

16. Gandlal ......... 1022 

17. Chandrika 1826 

18. Dashrath ......... i 835 

19. Bhabutiu ......... 1813 

20. Bhondai . , . . . . . . .1018 

21. Gulabchand T. No. ..... i 843 

22. Langru ,, ..... 1822 

23. Jfotia „ 1043 



Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV, 22. 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1. 1891 5123 


24. Ganpati 

T, No. 






. j8o8 

25. BhurB 







. 1809 

26. Kartik 







. 1024 

27. Malikadas 







. 1029 

28. Rusma» 







. 1788 

29. Ilameshagul 







. 1028 

30. Sconath 

>> 






. 1292 

31. Sttmaru 







, ^030 

32. Nandlal 







. 1934 

33. St'kliaulam 







. 1820 

34. Buddhu 

)5 






. 1830 

3*;. 'I'antu 







. 1067 

36. Tamman 







• . * 

37. Ojha . 







• * * 

38. Lulau . 







> * • 

39. Bahadur 








40. Ratan 





• 



41. Sekh Sakoor 




• 

• 


i • • 


If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled? 

After pleadings were filed certain issues were framed on 10th July, 1969- Before, 
however, evidence could be recorded, parties on this date of hearing compromised 
the dispute and filed a compromise petition which was duly verified before me and 
is annexure to the award. From the terms of the compromise petition, it appears 
that the management has agreed to give category IV and designate 4 workmen 
namely Channldas, Mahip Singh, Maharaj Singh and Rehman as Drillers. For 
others, the parties agreed that as they have been working for a short time only as 
Drillers the allowance of Rs, 0.2.5 paise shall be raised to Rs. 0.37 palse. The dis- 
pute is thus satisfactory resolved and an award in terms of compromise petition 
which is accepted is hereby recorded. 

Sd./- G. C. Agarwala, 

Presiding Officer- 
27-10-69, 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAI^CUM- 
LABOUR COURT (CENTRAL) JABALPUR 

In the Matter of Reference No, CGIT/LC(R) (20) /69 

Parties : 

Employers in relation to Datla West Colliery of the Amalgamated Coal fields 
Ltd,, P.O. Parasia, Dist. Chhindwara (M.P,) — Non- Applicants. 

Vs. 

Their workmen of Datla West Colliery, represented by the Satpura Koyala 
Khadan Mazdoor Congress, P O- Junnordeo, Distt. Chhindwara IM P.) 
— Applicants. 

Both the above mentioned parties jointly submit as under: 

1 That tho above reference was made by the Government of India, Ministry 
of Labour Employment & Rehabilitation (Dept, of Labour & Employment) to this 
Hon'ble Tribunal under their Order No. S.O. 5/24/68-LRII dated Hth April, 1969, 
which is now fixed for hearing for 27th October, 1969. 

2 That M/s Shaw Wallace & Co. Ltd. have ceased to be the managing agents 
of the Amalgamated Coalfields Ltd. with effect from 15th Augu.st W69 and as such, 
the emnlovers of the workers under Terms of Reference are M/s. ^e Amalgamated 
Coalfields Ltd., P.O. Parasia, Dist. Chnlndwara (M.P.), and not M/s. Shaw Wallace 
& Co. Ltd., as’ mentioned in the terms of Reference. 

3. That both the parties have now mutually settled this dispute among them- 
selves on the following terms; 

Terms of Settlement 

1 That it is agreed that all the Dressers and all the Drillers of Datla West 
Colliery have been doing the combined job of dressing and drilling within 8 hours 



5124 the gazette of INDIA: NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [Part II— 


of their shift duty for the last 10 years and they will continue to do so in future. 
However, during major part of their shift, Dressers do the job of dressing of coal 
roof, etc. and for a shortwhile, as and when required, they do the job of drilling 
for which at present they are being paid 25 P per Dressers per shift. But, the 
dressers at the other mines of M/s. The Amalgamated Coalfields Ltd. St The Pench 
Valley Coal Co, Ltd,, are doing the job of dreasing-cum-drllling for tbs past 
many years, for which they are paid adequate drilling allowance, to which the 
union agrees and has no ohjection to such existing system of work. 

2. Doth the parties agree that the Dressers have been correctly put in Cat. Ill 
of the Coal Wage Board Recommendations and during their major part of their 
shift they do the job of dressing. However, to resolve the dispute and to have 
better industrial relations, both the parties agree that the 25 P allowance as men- 
tioned in para 1 above, will be increased to 37 p (thirty seven paise only) per 
Dresser per shift for doing the combined job of dressing and drilling witliln their 
8 hour,s of shift, within two weeks from the date of filing of this settlement and 
the Dressers will not be entitled for any arrears on this account. 

3. Both the parties agree that the following Dressers will be designated as 
Drillers in Category IV of the Central Wage Board Recommendations, i,e. Rs. 6 90- 

0.20-8.90 on basic of Rs. 7.10 per day. within a week from the date of filling of 
this mutual settlement before this Hon’ble Tribunal : 

1. Shri Channldaa, Da'esser. 


2. Shri Mahip Singh, Dresser. 

3. Shri Maharaj Singh, Dresser. 


4. Shri Rehman, Dresser. 

4 Both the parties agree that in case of any promotion of any workman to 
the post of Dresser or Driller, he shall do the combined job of dressing and drilling 
as per terms hereinabove. 

6. That the Union agrees that it shall not raise any further dispute nor prefer 
any claim In future in this regard. Both the parties state that the dispute under 
reference pending before this Hon’ble Tribunal, thus stands finaUy settled and 
resolved. The parties shall bear their own cost. 

Prayer 

Both the parties pray that an Award may kindly be passed in terms of the 
aforesaid Settlement. 


Applicants 

(Sd.) Ramnarayan Singh 
General Secretary, 

Satpura Koyala Khadan Mazdoor 
Congress, P.O. Junnordeo, Dlst. 
Chhindwara (M.P.), 

(Sd.) 

Dated October 2S, 10C9. 


Non- Applicants 
(Sd.) S. D. Singh 
P ersonnel Ofificer, 

The Amalgamated Coalfields Ltd, The 
Pench Valley Coal Co. Ltd., P.O. 
Parasia, Distt, Chhindwara (M.P.). 
Verified. 

G. C. Acarwala^ 

Presiding Officer, 

Part) of the Award 

(Sd.) G. C. Agarwapa, 
Presiding Officer. 


27-10-89 

[No. 5/24/08-LRn.] 

S.O, 4683.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the foRowlng award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, in the Industrial dispute bet- 
ween the employers in relation to the management of P. D. Kajora Colliery, Post 
Office Kajoragram, District Burdwan and their workmen, which was received by 
the Central C^vemment on the 1st November, 1989, 



SEC.3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA J, 189J 5125 

CENTRAL, GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 
Reference No. 67 of 1969 

Parties; 

Employers in relation to the management of P. D. Kajora CoRiery 

And 

Their workmen. 

Present; 

Shrl B. N. Banerjee, Presiding Ofllcer. 

AlPPEarancks : 

On behalf of Employers — Absent. 

On behalf of Workmen — Shri B. S. Azad, General Secretary, Khan Mazdoor 
Congress. 

State: West Bengal Industry; Coal Mines 


AWARD 

By Order No. 6/28/69-LRII, dated July 22, 1969, the Government of India, in. 
the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment), referred the following dispute between the employers in rela- 
tion to the management of P. D. Kajora Colliery and their workmen, to this 
Tribunal, for adjudication, namely; 

"Whether the management of P. D. Kajora Colliery Post Office Kajoragram, 
District Burdwan was justified in terminating the service of Shri 
Bineshwar Singh with effect from the 28th November, 1968 and if not, 
to what relief the workman is entitled?” 

2. The workmen filed a belated written statement after I had sent a notice for 
fixation of a date ol peremptory hearing. The employer behaved In their usual 
non-cooperative way. They did not file their written statement, did not appear 
before this Tribunal on the date fixed for settlement of a date of hearing and also 
did not appear on the date fixed for peremptory hearing. In Reference No. 36 of 
1969, between the same parties, in which I passed an award on August 13, 1969, 1 
had to ob.'-^erve; 

“The employer colliery adopted an attitude of strange non-cooperation with 
the Tribunal from the beginning. It did not file written statement in 
time. After the date had arrived for settlement of peremptory date 
of hearing, the management woke up and wrote a letter asking for 
time to file written statement on the following ground; 

Tn view of the absence of the dealing clerk to attend for knowing the date 
and time to be fixed by your Honour for hearing the above Reference 
No. 35 of 1969 case, which may kindly be directed to your office to 
intimate me by letter, further more, I beg to state that replies of 
the W. S, of above reference is not yet ready, due to our Legal 
Adviser is out of station, so further 3 weeks time is solicited.’ 
Apart from the clum.sine3s of the language u.sed, the ground pleaded 
is flimsy. Even then this Tribunal fixed the peremptory date of hear- 
ing for July 31, 1969, with liberty to the management to flic their 
written statement before that date. Two days prior to the date of 
peremptory hearing, the management filed a written statement but did 
not care to appear on the date of perempto^ hearing. All that It did 
was to send an unworn and unverified application asking for adjourn- 
ment of the peremptory hearing on the ground of manager's Illness.” 

This time the management exhibited worse non-cooperation. It did not wake up 
at all and led thinks to drift for themselves. It Is no use postponing the case 
excepting that the management would wake up, which they will never do. I 
therefore take up the case for exparte hearing, 

3. It appears from the evidence of the workman himself that he was a perma- 
nent workman entitled to get Provident fund. Bonus and also Railway fare for 
going home. Bonus cards were exhibited and marked Exts. 1, 2 and 3. Prior to 
the date of his termination of service, he was working for 6 or 7 years in the colliery. 



5126 the gazette OE INDIA: NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [Part II— 


Suddenly the order ol termination of service, dated November 28, 1968 (Ext. 4), 
was sent to the workman couched In the following language: 

“As your work is unsatisfactory, the management Is hereby terminating your 
service from the date of this letter. 

Please collect your dues if any and vacate the quarters.” 

The workman protested to the Manager by his letter dated November 

He also wrote a letter, dated December 2, 1962, in the following language (Ext. 9) : 

“With reference to your above letter I beg to state that I am working in 
your above coiliery since long permanently and regularly with the lull 
satisfaction of my Superiors. So the question of that your work is un- 
satisfactory does not arise at all. Further the contention of your 
above letter that you are Pobalioner U/G Trammer is totally false and 
baseless, I am working regularly and permanently since long, bo this 
type of wrongful and illegal termination notice is quite illegal, unfair 
and unjust natural justice. 

Further I am active member of the Khan Shramik Congress union and pro- 
tested several times against your illegal activities regarding .short and 
under payment, thus you became displea.sed and unnecessarily issued 
me this illegal and wrongful termination letter without any reason, 
This termination notice was never oU'ered mg by Peon Book in any 
day, hence this allegation is also false. 

So you are requested to consider the matter and please try to reinstate me 
on my original Job with immediate effect with the full back wages for 
the above Illegal stoppage period and oblige,” 

Standing Orders of the. employer company provide; 

‘‘3(b) A ‘permanent’ workman Is one who Is appointed for an unlimited 
period or who has satisfactorily put in three months’ continuous ser- 
vice in a permanent post as a probationer.” 

Here, on the evidence I find that the workman was working for more than 6 or 7 
years, Even if in the Bonus Card he had at first been described as a probationer, 
he had put In more than 3 months’ continuou.s service thereafter and he must be 
deemed to have become a permanent workman, 

4 . It appears from the letter of termination of .service (Ext. 4) that the service 
of the workman was terminated for blameworthiness. Now, the service of a 
permanent workman cannot be terminated In such a high-handed fashion without 
a chargesheet, without an enquiry, without a report, and without proof of blame- 
worthiness. 1, therefore, 'hold that the termination of service was unlawful. 

5. In the view that I take, I set aside the order termination of service and 
direct reinstatement of the workman with full back wages from the date of ter- 
mination of service. Liberty is reserved to the employer to terminate the service 
of the workman afresh according to Rule. 

This is my award. 

Dated, October 22, 1969. (Sd.) B. N. BANEnjEn, 

Presiding Officer. 

[No 6/28/69-LRn.] 

Neio Delhi, the 14th November 1969 

S.O. 4684 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the indu.strial dispute bet- 
ween the employers in relation to the management of Khas Dharmaband Colliery 
of Messrs Khas Dharmaband Colliery Company (Private) Limited Post Office 
Malkera District Dhanbad and their workmen, which was received by the Central 
Government on the 3rd November, 1969- 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5127 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT 

DHANBAD 

In the matter of a reference under section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 

Reference No, 34 of 1968 


Parties ; 

Employers in relation to the Khas Dharmaband Collimy 
Dharmaband Colliery Company (P) Ltd., P, O. 
Dhanbad. 


of Messrs 
Malliera, 


Khas 

Dlstt. 


AND 

Their Workman. 


Present ; 

Shrl Kamla Sahal, Presiding Officer, 

Appearances : 

For the Employers: Shrl S. S. Mukherjee, Advocate. 
For the Workman: Shrl S. K. Mukherjee, Advocate. 
State ; Bihar 


Industry ; Coal. 


Camp : Bombay, the 29th October, 1969 

AWARD 

By order No. 2/45/68-LRlI, dated the 7th May, 1968, the Central Government, 
in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of 
Labour and Employment) has made this reference to this Tribunal for adjudica- 
tion of a dispute which has been described in the schedule attached to the refer- 
ence as follows: — 

SCHEDtrUE 

Whether the action of the management of Khas Dharmaband Colliery of 
Messrs Khas Dharmaband Colliery Company (P) Ltd, Post Office 
Malkera, District Dhanbad In dlsmls.slng Shri Nnbin' Chandra J- 
Mehta, Accountant/Cashier with effect from the 21st August, 1967 
was justified? If not, to what reUef is the workman entitled?” 

2. The management’s case is that payment to workers had to be made on 
Saturday the 1st July, 1967, but. owing to the fact that there was delay in re- 
ceipt of the money, payment started rather late and the entire payment could 
not be concluded on that date. According to the usual practice, payment had to 
start again early in the morning on Monday (he 3rd July, 1967. Shri Nabin 
Chandra J. Mehta, Accountant/Cashier came that morning to the colliery office at 
about 8-30 A.M. instead of 7 a.m. when work usually starts. The Manager, Shri 
M. H. A. Malllck, sent for him and he came to the Manager's office. At that 
time, a number of workers had assembled at the door of the Manager’s office and 
there-abouts and were making a row. The Manager asked Shri Nabin Chandra 
J. Mehta, the alleged delinquent, why he was getting him (the Manager) insul- 
ted and asked him to hand over charge of the cash to Shri Magan Bhai (Megan 
Lai N. Shcthla). Nabin Chandra J. Mehta refused and left the oifice. The 
Manager then sent a slip to him. Instructing him in writing lo hand over charge 
of the cash to Shri Magan Lai N. Shethla but he refused again, saying that he 
would not hand over charge of the cash until he received in.structions from Sri 
R. N. Singh, Director, or from Calcutta. 

3. The management’s case further Is that, at about 10-46 a.m. on the same 
date, Sri Mehta sent a slip to the Manager asking for hi.s permission to go to 
Jharla to get his wound dressed. The Manager replied verbally that he wa.s giving 
him a written reply within about ten minutes. Before this, Shri Mehta had asked 
the Manager to hand over the duplicate key of the Iron Safe but the Manager had 
replied 'T am not able to give the key as you are not ready to hand over the cash 
to Shri M. N. Shethla”. 

4- Shri Mehta handed over a written report (Ext. 14) in which he stated Inter 
alia that he had begun payment on Saturday at about 4-T5 p.m. and that he had 
got the pay counter closed at 6-45 p.m. because the Manager had previously 



5128 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [PartH— 


asked him in the morning to come to him at about 7-00 p.m-, for 
discussion relating to books of accounts, that hulla was made by workers 
and labour leaders to continue payment, that having failed to contact the 
Manager on phone, he (Shrl Mehta) went to the Manager’s house and met him at 
about 7-00 P.M.; that the Manager asked him to continue payment until 9-00 p.m. 
«nd to come to him on Sunday but, when Shrl Mehta told him that the discus- 
sions would take more than three hours, the Manager asked him to come for the 

discussions on Monday, that Shrl Mehta started payment again and continued 
payment until abdut 9-10 pjvt-, that he left the colliery at about 8-00 a.m. on 
Sunday the 2nd July along with his family, that he was gheraoed by some wagon 
loaders betw'een Dharmaband and Mohuda at a place near Amjharna and told 
him that the Manager wanted him back and that, if he (Mehta) did not go 
back, they would not allow him to proceed further. Mehta then asked the load- 
ers to ask the Manager to send him a conveyance, for he could not go back on 
foot to the colliery which was at a great distance. The loaders further told 
Mehta that the Labour Welfare Officer (Shri B. P- Yadav) had instructed them to 
gherao him. Subsequently the loaders did not bring a conveyance for Mehta 
and thereafter Mehta was allowed to proceed to his father-in-law's house where 
he was going. 

5. The Manager kept the above report with himself. Later, on the same 
date, the Manager drew up chargesheet No. KD/CS/24/875/67 against Mehta- 
In that chargesheet, Shrl Mehta was alleged to have committed the following 
misconduct : — 


(1) Of wilful in subordinalon, disobedience of the lawful and reasonable 

order of the superior under clause 1 of clause 27 of the certffied 
standing orders and 

(2) of leaving wmrk without pex’mlssion under clause 27(18) of the 

certified standing orders. 

6. Pending enquiry, Shri Mehta was called upon to hand over charge of the 
colliery cash by physical counting to Shri M. N- Shethia, General Supervisor as 
he had already been directed to do. 

7. Mehta gave a reply to the chargesheet on the 5th July, 1967, denying the 
charges. Notice of enquiry (Ex. M-2) was served on the 6th July. The domestic 
enquiry was held by Shrl S. R. P. Singh Group Labour Officer, on the loth, 21st 
and 27th July, 1967- The proceedings of the enquiry are Ext. M-3. On the 3rd 
August, the enquiring officer submitted his report (Ext. M-6). I may shortly 
summarise what he has stated therein. He has given eight points and has pointed 
out the evidence which proves those points. He has mentioned that the manage- 
ment examined four witnesses before him namely Shrl B. P, Yadav (P.W. 1), 
Labour Officer, Shri M. N. Shethia (P.W. 2), General Supervisor, Shri Duryodhan 
Dasandhl (P.W. 3), Office Peon and Shrl M. H. A- MalUck (P.W. 4), Manager of 
Khas Dharmaband Colliery. The enquiring officer has also pointed out the 
witnesses who have supported the different points formulated -by him and he has 
further added that item Nos. .3. 4, 5 and 7 were admitted by Shri Mehta himself 
In the statement which he made before the enquiring officer. He also referred 
to the facts which Shrl Mehtn contradicted and has shown that his contradictions 
cannot be correct. He has then given the conclusion that both the charges framed 
against Shrl Mehta have been established and he Is guilty. Before giving his 
conclusion, he saa stated that Shri Mehta fully cross-examined the companys 
witnesses who were examined again.st him and that he was also given full op- 
portunity to adduce defence evidence and to make his own statement. 
Ext. M-7 is a letter dated the 9th August. 1967 sent by the Director of the col- 
lier, v to the Manager, giving permission to him to dismiss Shrl Mehta from 
service- 


8. Ext. M-a is letter No. KD/24/1846/67 dated lOtb August. 1967 sent by the 
Manager to Shri Mehta. He has conveyed orders by this letter that Shri Mema 
would stand dismissed from service with effect from the 21st August, 1967- He 
further offered Shrl Mehta one months’ wages as required by section 33(2) oi 
the Industrial Disputes Act. 

9. Shri S. K. Mukherjee, Advocate, who has appeared on behalf of the aUeged 

delinquent, ha.s argued only three points. His first point is tfiat Shrl ? 

been victimised. No proof has at all been offered by or on behalf of Shri Mehta 
to prove this allef?atioii nor has any suifsestlon to that been accepted by 

any of the management’s witnesses- This point, therefore, falls. 

10. The second point which Shri S. K. Mukherjee has argued is that the enouiry 
report Is perverse- I have carefully gone through the enquiry report s 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 18« 5129 


the entire evidence and I have formed the opinion that the report is well-reasoned, 
and perfectly sound. 

11. Shrl S. K. Mukherjee has pointed out that, by a letter (Ext. W-10), Shrl 
Mehta asked the Manager to make over to him one of the duplicate keys in order 
to enable him to make over charge. I do not quite see the importance of this 
letter because it is the admitted case of both parties that Shri Mehta did make 
over charge to Shrl Shethla ultimately at about 3-1.1 p.M. In compliance with 
the Manager’s orders given In writing on the stationery of Khas Dharmaband 
Colliery. It is also the admitted case of Shri Mehta that he did not make over 
charge of the cash to Shri Shethia in compliance with the oral order or the written 
Order of the Manager, given on a slip of paper. That clearly makes out the 
first charge gainst Shri Mehta. I cannot accept the stand of Shri Mehta as 
correct if his stand is, as is apparent, that llegality and validity are attached to 
the Manager’s orders only when he puts them down in writing and that too when 
he puts down his orders on the stationery of the colliery- Ext. W-9 is the order 
In writing on the stationery of the colliery by the Manager to Shrl Mehta and he 
himself seems to have made an endorsement that he received it at 3-15 P.m, .The 
same letter contains an endorsement by the Manager that he had requested the 
cashier earlier by a written order on a slip to hand over charge of the cash. 

12. The third point which Shri S. K. Mukherjee has raised Is that the Manager’s 
case In his evidence before Ihe Tribunal is different from what it was in his 
evidence before the enquiring officer. Shri M- H. A. Malllck was examined before 
the Tribunal as M.W. 1. At one stage in his evidence, he wished to give the 
entire story in brief, He then gave the time when Shrl Mehta came to the 
colliery as having been 9-30 a-m. though the companies’ case before the enquiring 
officer was that he came to the coUlery at about 8-30 a.m. I do not attach any 
Importance to this time because Shri Malllck may have mentioned a wrong time 
before the Tribunal on account of failure of memory. His evidence before the 
Tribunal also differs from his previous evidence about the timing when he sent 
an t:ial message to Shri Mehta to hand over charge to M- N- Shethla. He, 
however, says before the Tribunal also that Shri Mehta refused to accept the 
oral message and, therefore, he (the Manager) sent him a chit to the same effect. 
In these circumstances, I do not think that the Manager has made any material 
change in his evidence. 

13. The evidence shows clearly that, because Shri Mehta asked in writing for 
permission to leave the colliery the Manager stated to him that he would given 
his reply also in writing, I do not think that the Manager was wrong in saying 
that he would give his reply in writing. Admittedly, Mehta went away from 
the colliery before he got written permission from the Manager to leave it. That 
being so, there can be no doubt that the second charge has also been established. 
In any case, I find that the enquiry has been held legally and properly. There 
was no infringement of natural justice at the enquiry. As I have already said, 
the conclusions of the enquiring officer are not perverse. In these circumstances, 
it is not open to me to interfere. Reference made in this connection to the 
Supreme Court’s decision Mills Company, Limited versiis its workmen and 
another, reported in 1963 (II) L.L.J. 78. 

14. For the rea.sons given above, I have come to the conclusion that the action 
of the managerhent of Khas Dharmaband Colliery In dismissing Shri Nahln 
Chandra .1. Mehta, Accountant Cashier with effect from the 21st August, 1967 
was completely justified. He is, therefore, not entitled to any relief, 

15. This is my award. Let it be submitted to the Central Government under 
section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 


Sd-/- KaMla Sahai, 

Presiding Officer. 

[No. 2/45/68-LRIl.] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 6th November 1969 

S.O. 4685. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Bnowra Colliery of Messrs 
Karam Chand Thapar and Brothers, Post Office Bhowra, District Dhanbad and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 



5130 the gazette of INDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA I, 1891 [Part II— 


And whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (di of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1047 (14 of 1947), the Central 

Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Govern- 
ment Industrial Tribunal, (No. 3), Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act. 


BchEdule 

“Whereas the demand of the Collie^ Mazdoor Sangh, Dhanbad, for fixation 
of the grade of Sarvashrl Deb Das Banerjee and Yogendra Prasad Singh, 
Lamp Room Incharge, Bhowra Colliery of Messrs Karam Chand Thapar 
and Brothers, Post Office Bhowra, District Dhanbad, In Grade I with 
effect from the 15th August, 1967 as recommended by the Central 
Wage Board for Coal Mining Industry is justified? If so, to what 
relief are the workmen entitled? 

[No. 2/eO/a9-LR. II] 

S.O. 4686. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an indusirial dispuic 
exis's between the employers in relation 10 the management of Jaipur Udyog Limited, Phalodi 
Quarry, Sawaimadhopur, and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 

And, wltireas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication; ' 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section jA and clause (d) 
of sub-section (i) of section 10 of the Industrlfl Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shri Gopal Narain Sharma Piesidirg 
Officer, with headquarters at Jaipur and refer the said dispute for adjudication to the said 
Tribunal. 


Schedule 

Whether the action of the employer in treating the following workmen as “Casual”, even after 
several years of continuous service, is justified. If not,io what relief are the workmen entitled? 


Si. 

Name 

Father’s Name 

Designation Date from 

No. 



which 




working 

I 

z 

3 

4 5 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 
9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

19 

20 

21 

22 


Shrimati Ramdci 
,, Dhanni 
Shri Goverdhan 
Shri Ramdas 
Shri Bihari 
Shri Dharampal 
Shri Pfabhudayal 
Shri Ramu 
Shri Chhotesingh 
Shri Slianker. 

Shri Tagdish Singh 
Shri Murli 
Shri Nand Singh 
Shri Honumansingh . 
Shri Raghunathsiiigh , 
Shri Moti 
Shri Ram Nath. 

Shri Harjldevi Ram . 
Shri Virendrasingh 
Shri Dhunewar Singh 
Shri Prabhu 
Shri Ummesingh 


MohanJal 

. Kuli. 

7-1-1964 

Deraa. 

Sweeper 

1-9-1964 

Nalholi 

• 35 

1-10-1964 

Naihulal 

‘ 55 

35 

Madho. 

• 55 

1-9-1964 

Petbahadur. . 

. Beldar- 

12-5-1964 

Ram Dayal. . 

• 35 

21-H-1964 

Kaisa. . 

• 55 

16-6-1964 

Kalyan Singh. 

J 53 

26-5-1964 

Mooliya. 

■ 55 

26-5-1964 

Ladu Singh . 

• 3.5 

24-12-1964 

Jaliya . 

* 53 

19-2-1965 

Chhlrar Singh 

’ 35 

12-2-1964 

Magan Singh 

• 55 

12-2-1964 

Bhanwar Singh 

• 35 

5-12-1964 

Baldev 

. Beldar 

11-5-1964 

Soniya 

• 33 

20-11-1964 

— 

35 

12-5-1964 

Chhivar Singh 

' 5 > 

15-11-1964 

Mlthu Singh 

- 55 

15-3-1965 

Chhitar 

3 > 

26-5-1964 

Cbhirar Singh 

• , 33 

11-5-1964 




Sec, 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV. 22 , 1969 /AGRAHAYjINA 1 , 18 5131 



23 

Shri Sohanlal . . 

Gordhan 


Beldar 

26-11-1964 

24 

Shrl Amar Nath 

. Moolraj 



1-5-1965 

25 

Shri Har Narain 

Sunder 


• > 

22-9-1964 

26 

Shri Shiv Charon 

Kanhaya Lai 


• 

19-2-1965 

27 

Shri Dwarkaprasad 

Bengali Gupta 


• 35 

19-2-1965 

28 

Shri Moti 

Hardev 


Ik 

‘ 26-5-1964 

29 

Shri Preetamsingh 

Buta Singh . 


f ‘ 

26-5-1964 

30 

Shri Mangu 

Chhoga 


99 

11-5-1964 

31 

Shri Kaman 

. YuBuf 


< 

26-5-1964 

32 

Shri Hira .... 

Shri Lai 


• >> 

26-5-1964 

33 

Shri Kishanlal . 

Hajari 


' > J 

26-5-1964 

34 

Shri Ganesh 

Manfool 


’ 99 

27-3-1965 

35 

Shri Tiva .... 

Prcma 


’ 99 

4-6-1964 

36 

Shri Juvara 

Dharma 


• 99 

4-6-1964 

37 

Shri Hira 

Dcrga . 


' 99 

26-5-1994 

38 

Shri Puran 

Chhoga 


Khanwar 

4-11-1964 

39 

Shri Kanhaya 

Goru 


. Gadiwan 

16-4-1965 

40 

Shri Hira .... 

Chania 


. Beldar 

11-5-1964 

41 

Shri Dunga 

Maiyan 


■ 99 

11-5-1964 

42 

Shri Ram Niwaa 

Panchu 


1 } y 

12-5-1904 

43 

Shri Kcahra 

. Harji 



11-5-1964 

44 

Shri Te) pal 

. Chhoga 


* *3 

13-6-1964 

■45 

Shri Hajari 

Ganga Ram . 



tI'' 5 -I 964 

46 

Shri Kanhaya . 

. Onkar . 


' ^9 

12-5-1964 

47 

Shri Kajor 

Viahniya . . 


>9 

11-5-1964 

48 

Shri Ramswarup 

Gulji 


’9 

9-7-1964 

49 

Shri Prabu 

Ramhet 



11-5-1964 

50 

Shri Gangaram . 

Ram Pal 


9 9 

11-5-1964 

51 

Shri Moolya 

Radhakishan 


1 9y 

11-5-1964 

52 

Shri Ramfwarup 

Laxmi Narain 


99 

26-9-1964 

53 

Shrijaganth 

Bhanwar lal , 


• 9 9 

11-5-1964 

54 

Shri Laddu 

Koriyan 


• 9 

12-5-1964 

■55 

Shri Ramkalyan , 

. Kanwarlal 


■ 53 

26-5-1964 

56 

Shri Pokhar 

. Hajari 


■ 3 J 

26-6-1964 

37 

Shri Bhanwarlal 

. Kishanlal 


■ 9 3 

12-5-1964 

58 

ShriBaJranga 

Onkar . 


• 99 

26-5-1964 

59 

Shri Shobha 

. Tulsa . 


• 99 

26-6-1964 

■60 

Shri Kalyan 

. Jiwan . 


• 99 

12-5-1964 

61 

Shri Keahra 

, Ghaal , 


• >9 ’ 

11-5-1964 

62 

Shri Hajari 

Sonlya 


■ 33 

11-5-1964 

63 

Shri Ramchandra 

Bhura 


33 

11-5-1964 

64 

ShrlBansi 

. Hajari . 


3 > 

I1-5-1964 

65 

Shri Bhanwarlal 

. Hlralal 


■ 53 

26-5-1964 

66 

Shri Chrmiya 

. Dllipa . 


• 3 > . 

16-6-1964 

67 

Shri Kalyan 

. Bhura. 


• 35 

16-6-1964 

68 

ShriBaJran a . , . 

Kujiya. 


■ 99 

26-5-1964 

69 

Shri Gordhan 

Bajranga 


• 53 

26-5-1964 

70 

Shri Ram Nath 

Narain 


' 3 3 

26-5-1964 

71 

Shri Nanga 

. Onkar . 


• 33 

11-5-1964 

72 

Shri Goru .... 

Kani Ram 


• 33 

11-3-1964 

73 

Shri Jai Ram 

Bhairon 


• 33 

26-5-1964 

74 

Shri Ram Phool . 

. Sukh Lal 


* 9 9 

11-5-1964 

75 

Shri Srikishan 

, Sundra 


• .99 

16-6-1964 

76 

Shri Ghiaa .... 

Mukundiya . 


‘ 3 3 

16-6-1964 

77 

Shri Bajranga 

. Raghunetn . 


• 33 

16-6-1964 

78 

ShriRamhet 

Gpriya 


> 3 3 

12-6-1964 

79 

Shri Mangal , 

, Jal Kishan 


■ 53 

13-6-1964 

80 

Shri Harchand 

Kana . 


3 3 

16-6-1964 

81 

Shri Ram Kumar. 

. Kawanriya 


3 l 

26-5-1964 

82 

Shri Ganesh 

Arjun . 


5 J 

11-6-1964 

83 

Shri Moolchand . 

Lakma 


33 

16-11-1964 

84 

Shri Bhajan 

, Kajor . 


• 33 

12-5-1964 

85 

Shri Balka .... 

, Praga , 


• 33 

25-6-1964 

86 

Shri Tllak Singh . 

, Sukh Ram 


* 33 

16-6-1964 

87 

Shri Balu .... 

. Bargha 


• 33 

26-5-1964 

88 

Shri Gulab singh 

, Bansi Singh 


* 5 3 

26-5-1964 

N 



5132 the gazette of INDIA: NOV. 22. 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [Part Hi- 


I 2 


3 


4 


5 


89 Shri Mchilol 

90 Shri Suraj Bhansingh 

91 Shri Moti , 

92 Shri Hajari 

93 Shri Mohan 

94 Shri Kana , 

95 Shri Mukandsingh 

96 Shri Chhitar 

97 Shri Jagdish 

98 ShriHira . 

99 Shri Laxman 
100 Shri Gokal . 

joi Shri Ramniwas , 

102 Shri Tcja 

103 Shri Magiya 

104 Shri Dcvilal 

105 Shri Kalyan 

106 Shri Gokul 

107 ShriKalu , 

108 Shri Kan yan 

109 Shri Hatiya 
r 10 Shri Suwa . 

111 Shri Madansingh 

1 12 Shri Goverdhan , 

1 13 Shri Kishna 

1 14 Shri Ramniwas 

115 Shri Subhashchandra 

1 16 Shri Shankcr 

117 Shri Hajari 
11& Shri Ram lal 

1 19 Shri Sukhji 

120 Shri Jagaimath singh 

121 ShriLadu . 

122 Shri Hira . 

123 Shri Foolya 

124 Shri Sriram 

125 Shri Raja Ram . 

126 Shri Nanga 

127 Shri Dhanna Lal 


Ghurisijigh 

Kesharaingh 

Chandra 

Dhanna 

Kumpa 

Ramnath . 

Sultan Singh 

Kishan lal . 

Shivji 

Moolj'a 

Onkar 

Harphool . 

Bhairoon 

Onkar 

Sukha 

Mangilal 

Devdiand . 

Bhoora 

Kishna 

Mangilal 

Ravta 

Mcwaram . 
Samundresingh 
Kalla . 

Pooniya 

Kana 

Ladda Ram 

Bhura 

Moolya 

Moolya 

Moolya 

Onkaraingh 

Goriya 

Gan^ram . 

Goriya 

Dhanna 

Jagnath 

Handu 

Laxmi Narain 


Bddar 


3) 

>> 

i) 

n 

St 
St 
ft 
St 
tt 
St 
St 
ts 
s s 

St 

sS 

ts 

ti 

tt 

tt 

St 

St 

St 

St 

tt 

St 

ts 

S t 

ts 

ss 

t) 

ss> 

ts 

St 


ss 

ss 


ss 


26-5-1964 

26-5-1964 

26-5ri964 

11- 5^1964 
26-5.-1964 
26-5ri964 
26-5-19641 
26-5-1964 
19-9-1964 
5-11-1964' 

12- 5-1964', 
26-5-1964 
26-5-1964 
26-5-1964 
26-5-1964 
12-5-1964 
12-5-1964 
22-9-1964 

11- S-1964 

12- 5-1964 
4-6-1964 

3-11-1964 

11- S-1964 
19-2-1965 

21- 9-1964 

12- 5rl964: 

26-5-1964 

26-5-1964 

19-3-1965 

19-9*1964 

22- 9-1964 
10+11-1964 

19-2-1965 

I9*«ri965; 

19-2-1965 

19-21-1965 

19-2-1965, 

IZ-5-1964 

21-9+1961 


[No. 36/3a/69*LRIV] 


New Delhi, the 1 th November 1969 

S.O. 4687. — Whereas the Central Government Is of opinion that an ind-uBtrlal 
dispute exists between the employers In relation to the Slngarenl Collieries 
Company Limited, Post Office Kothagudium Collieries (Andhra Pradesh-) and 
their workmen in respect of the matters speclfled in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 A and 
clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Governmept hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal 
with Shri Mohammad Najmuddln, as Presiding Officer with headquarters at- 
Afzal Lodge, Tllak Road, Hamkote, Hyderabad-1, and refers the said dispute for 
adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

SCHEPULE 

“Having regard to the nature of duties^ performed, the emoluments drawn 
and status enjoyed by Sar’vashrl Maka Venkanna, Jalll Bhushanam, 
Jithugu Venkanna, Rayadu Suranna and Nakka Suranna, Ex-Super- 
visors of the Andhra Labour Force, how far the management of 
Slngareni CoUieries Company Limited, Kothagudium Is justified in 
allotting to them the monthly grade of Re. 166 — 230- undef the 

recommendations of Central Wage Board for Coal Mining Industry. 
If not, to what relief are these workers entitled and from what date?” 

[No. 7/11/69-LRII.] 



SEC.3Cil)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5133 


S.O, 4688. — Whereas the Central Governrnent is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers In relation to the maneigement of Gondudlh 
Colliery of Messrs Central Alkusa Colliery Company, Post Office Kusunda, 
District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, iWhereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 3) Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A 
of :the said Act. 


Schedule 

Whether the action of the management of Gondudih Colliery of Messrs 
Central Alkusa Colliery Company, Post Office Kusunda, District 
Dhanbad, in rendering idle Shrl Achyutanand Mishra, Store-Keeper- 
Magazine Incharge, with effect from the 2nd May, 1968 was justified? 
If not, to what relief is the workman entitled? 

[No. 2/25/69-LR.II.] 


New Delhi, the 12th November 1969 

5.0, 4689. — Whereas the Central Government Is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Messrs 
Duduwala and Company (Private) Limited. Mica Mine Owners, Bhilwara, and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shrl Gopal 
Narain Sharma as Presiding Officer, with headquarters at Jaipur and refers the 
said dispute lor adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

Schedule 

“Whether the resignation tendered by Shri Hiralal, Sorter, Toonka Mine on 
the 6th June, 1909 was voluntary and its acceptance by Messrs Dudu- 
wala and Company, Mica Mine Owners. Bhilwara, was bona fide? If 
not, to what relief is the workman entitled?” 

[No. 24/62/69-LR.IV.] 

5.0. 4690. — ^Whereas the Central Government Is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Messrs Dudu- 
wala and Company (Private) Limited. Mica Mine Owners. Bhilwara, and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government con.siders it desirable to refer the said 
dl.spute for adjudication; 

Now. therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 A and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shri Gopal 
Narain Sharma. as Presiding Officer, with headquarters at Jaipur and refes the said 
dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

Schedule 

“Whether the resignation tendered by Shrl Bhur Singh, Chowkidar, Toonka 
Mines on the 6th June, 1969 was voluntary and its acceptance by 
Messrs Duduwala and Company, Mica Mine Owners Bhilwara was 
hona fide? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled?” 

[No. 24/03/e9-LR.rv.] 

S.O. 4691. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Messrs 
Duduwala and Company (Private) Limited, Mica Mine Owners, Bhilwara, and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 



5134 the gazette of INDIA: NOV. 22. 1 969/ AGRAHA YANA 1, 1891 [Part II— 


And. whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now. therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause (d) 
of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947). 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shri Gopal 
Narain Sharma, as Presiding OflRcer, with headquarters at Jaipur and refers the 
laid dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal, 

Schedulje 

“Whether the action of the management of Messrs Duduwgla and Company, 
Mica Mine Owners, BhIlwara In terminating the services of Shrl Salag- 
ram, Black Smith, from their Tookka Mica Mine with effect from the 
16th June, 1969 was legal and justified and if not, to what relief the 
workman Is entitled?" 

[No. 24/64/69-LR.IV.] 


New Delhi, the 13th Noveniber 1969 

S.O. 4692. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers In relation to the management of Pure Sital- 
pur Colliery, Po.st Office Ukhra, District Burdwan and their workmen in respect of 
the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annnexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Govern- 
ment Industrial Tribunal. Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

“Whether the management of Pure Sltalpur Colliery, Post Ofiflce Ukhra, 
District Burdwan was justified in stopping the following workmen 
from work from the dates shown against each and dismissing them 
with effect from 3rd September 1968? If not, to what relief are the 
workmen entitled? 


Ntrme of taorkmen 


Date of stoppage 


I. Shri Ram Prcm Singh, Shot Fircr 
3. Shri Ram Prsad Yadav, Line Mistry 

3, Shri Yogindar Singh, Friction Roller Mazdoor 

4. Shri Mahadev Singh, Underground Trammer 


, 16-5-1968. 

. 28-5-1968, 

. 16-5-1968. 

. 16-5-1968.” 


[No. 6/'30/68-LR.II.] 


S.O. 4693. — Whereas the Central Government I3 of opinion that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Selected 
Samla Colliery, Post Office Pandaveshwar, District Burdwan, and their workmen 
in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1047 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Govern- 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 




SEC.3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV, 22. 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5135 


Schedui-e 

“Whether the demand of the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha, Ranlganj for reinstate- 
ment of the workers as given below with effect from the dates shown 
against each is justified? 

SI. No. 

Name of the worker 



Dcsigna' ion 

Date 

I 

Shri 

Ramatur Yadav 



. Chanrpsi 

20-5-69 

2 


Sudhiram Yadav 



Do. 

20-5-69 

3 


Amar Singh 



Do. 

20-5-69 

4 


Bahadur Yadav 



Do. 

20-5-69 

5 


Ramahari Singh 



Do. 

20-5-69 

6 


Pahari Singh 



Do. 

20-5-69 

7 

> J 

Ramzan Singh 



Do. 

2''-5-69 

8 


Barai Pandey 



Do. 

20-5-69 

9 


Rajkishori Singh 



Po- 

20-5-69 

10 


Sitaram Dubey 



Do. 

20-5-69 

II 


Mahesh Gore 



Do, 

20 - 5-69 

12 


Raghabcndra Singh 



Do. 

20-5-69 

13 


Babulal Singh 



Do. 

20-5-69 

14 


Durga Prasad Tewari , 



Do. 

20-5-69 

IS 


Kashi Nafh Singh 



. A/Sird 

15-5-69 

16 


Dinanath Chard 



Dc. 

15-5-69 

17 


Siaram Gopc 



. L/Supr. 

21-5-69 

18 


Slta'a Ahir 



Do. 

21-S-69 

19 


Satdeo Sii'gh 



Do. 

21-S-69 

20 


Ahamed Mia . , 



, Trammer 

21-5-69 

21 


Shyam Behari Kohar 



Do. 

21-5-69 

22 


Dinanath Kohar 



Do. 

21-5-69 

23 


Sadaiinar.d Dhar 



Do. 

21-5-69 

24 


Maheiidra Yadav 



Do. 

21-5-69 

25 


Ramaga Yadav 



Do. 

21-5-69 

26 


Ram Chhabila Choubey 



Do. 

21-5-69 

27 


Durbijoy Yadav 



L/Mazdoor 

21-5-69 

2S 


Kedar Pandey 



, H/Khal 

21-5-69 

29 


Algo Mian 



, Loader 

15-5-69 

30 


Bhatan Tanti 



Do. 

15-5-69 

31 


Tcjendra Singh 



Do. 

15-5-69 

32 


Ramchandra Yadav 



, Chaprasi 

20-5-69 

33 


Madan Singh 



. L/Mazdoor 

18-5-69 

34 


Sachpn Singh 



. T rammer 

18-5-69 

35 


Bans Bahadur Singh 



Clerk 

2-6-69 

36 


Ramnath Nuria 



Trammer 

21-5-69 


Ii so, to what relief arc ihe workmen entitled ? 


[No 6/74/09-LRn.] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 7th November 1969 

8 . 0 . 4694 .- — ^In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) 
No. S.O- 3562 dated the 27th August. 1969, published on page 3767 of the Gazette 
of India Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (11), dated the 6th September, 1969, — 

(i) in line 3, for “Messrs Bengal Coal Company Limited” read “Messrs 

New Beerbhoom Coal Company Limited”; 

(ii) In lines 14 and 15, for the words “Messrs Bengal Coal Company Limited" 

read “Membra New Beerbhoom Coal Company Limited”. 

[No. 6/39/68-LRlI.] 
P, C. MISRA, Under Secy. 




5136 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [Part II— 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 1th November 1909 

S.O. 4695. — ^In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-regulation (1) of regula- 
tion 11 of the Metalliferous Mines Regulations, 1961, the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shri P. N, VIjaya Raghavan, Superintendent, Mysore/Champion Reef 
Amalgamated Mine, Kolar Gold Field, Ooragaum as member of the Board of Mining 
Examinations vice Shri N. S. Claire resigned and make the following amendment in 
the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employ- 
ment S.O. No. 2631 dated the 26th July, 1067 namely: — 

In the said notification, for item 3 the following item shall be substituted, 
namely : — 

“Shri P. N, VIjaya Raghavan, Superintendent, Mysore/ Champion Reef 
Amalgamated Mine, Kolar Gold Field, Ooragaum". 

[No. 3/12/e9-MI.] 
J- D. TEWABI, Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 7th November 1969 

S.O. 4696. — ^Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that — 

(1) Messers. Dina Nagar Adarsh Conduit Pipe Manufacturers. 

(2) Messrs. Dina Nagar Rubber Production Cooperative Society, 

were situated In Dina Nagar area which was a sparse area (that Is, an area whose 
insurable population was less than 500) in the District of Gurdaspur in the State of 
^njab; 

And, whereas by viture of their location in a sparse area, the aforesaid factories 
were granted exemption from the payment of the employer’s special contribution 
under section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948) until 
enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that urea by the Central 
Government in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) 
No. S.O. 798, dated the 8th March, 1960; 

And, whereas the Central Government Is satisfied that the Insurable popUlatIjn 
of the Dina Nagar area in the District of Gurdaspur in the State of Punjab has now 
exceeded 500, and it is no longer a sparse area; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the 
Employee’s State Insurance Act. 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment In the said notification, namely; — 

In the Schedule to the said notification, against serial No. 3, the entry “Dina 
Nagar” in column 3 and the corresponding entries In column 4 shall 
be omitt^ 

[No. F. 6/68/e9-HI.] 


S.O. 4697. — ^Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that— 

(1) Messr.s. Gupta Brothers Registered, 

(2) Messrs. Northern India Rubber Mills, 

(3) Messrs. Universal Indus. 

(4) Messrs. Bharat Indus. 

were situated in Dina Nagar area which was a sparse area, (that Is, an area whose 
insurable population was less than 500) In the District of Gurdaspur in the State of 
Punjab; 

And, whereas by virtue of their location in a sparse area, the aforesaid factories 
were granted exemption from the payment of the employer’s special contribution 
under section 73F of the Employee’s State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948) until 
enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area by the Central 
Government In the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of 
Labonr and Employment No. S.O. 135. dated the 5th January, 1962; 



SEC.3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA J, 1891 5137 


And, whereas the Central Government Is satisfied that the insurable population 
of the Dina Nagar area in the district of Gurdaspur in the State of Punjab has now 
exceeded 500, and it is no longer a sparse area; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the 
Employee's State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the said notification, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said notification, against serial No. 5, the entry “Dina 
Na^ar” in column 3 and the corresponding, entries in column 4 shall be 
omitted. 

[No. F. 6/68/69-HI]. 

S-O. 4698 ^Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that Messrs Gupta 

Rubber Mills was situated in Dina Nagar area which was a sparse area (that is, 
an area whose Insurable population was less than 500) in the district of Gurdaspur 
in the State of Punjab; 

And, whereas by virtue of its location in a sparse area, the aforesaid factory 
was granted exemption from the payment of the employer’s special contribution 
under section 73F of the Employees’ gtate Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948) until 
enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area by the Central 
Government in the notification of the Government of India in the late Department 
of Social Security No, S.O. 3230 dated the 25th September, 1966; 

And, whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the insurable population 
of the Dina Nagar area In the district of Gurdaspur in the State of Punjab has 
now exceeded 500, and it is no longer a sparse area; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73E of the 
Employees’ State Insurance Act. 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the said notification, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said notification, against serial No. 6 , the entry “Dina 
Nagar” in column 3 and the corresponding entry in column 4 shall be 
omitted. 


[No. F. 6/08/69-HI.] 

S.O. 4699. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, 1943 (34 of 1948), the Central Government having regard 
to the location of the factories specified In the Schedule hereto annexed in sparse 
areas in the State of Orissa, hereby exempts the said factories from the payment 
of the employer’s special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act 
for a period of one year from the date of publication of this notification in the 
Official Gazette or until the enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the 
said Act in those areas, whichever is earlier. 


Schedule 


SI. Name of District 
No. 

Name of Area 

Name of the Factory 

1 1 

3 

4 

I Balasore 

Kantapal 

Shree Ram Chuda and Rice Mills. 

2 Cuttack 

. Jagatpur 

1. M/s. Tripty Drinks (P) Ltd. 

2 , Shree Lakshmi Narain & Sons 


Kendrapara 

Shri Baldev Jew Power Loom 
Weaver’s Co. -op. Society. 

3 Koraput 

. Nowrangpur 

The Nowrangpur Saw Mill. 


Malkangiri 

M/s. Zonal Workshop (Danda- 
karanya Project). 



5138 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [PAaTH— 


1 2 

3 

4 

4 Phulbani 

. Phulbani 

The Orissa Road Transport Co. 

5 Sundergarh 

. Santoshpur 

M/s. Re-Rolling Mills. 


Biramitrapur 

M/s. Mittal Biscuit & Company. 


Sundergarh 

The State Transport Workshop. 


[No- F. 0/12/68-HI.] 
DAUIT SINGH. Under Secy, 


(Department ot Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the ^th November 1969 

S.O. 4700. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal No. 3, Dhanbad, in the Industrial dispute 
between the employers In relation to Cantonment Board, Dinapore and their work- 
men, which was received by the Central Government on the 4th November, 19(59 

THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No- 3) 

AT DHANBAD 

Reference No. 37 of 1969 


Presents: 

Sri Sachidanand Slnha, M.A.M.L., Presiding Officer. 
Parties: 

Employers in relation to the Cantonment Board, Dinapore. 


Vs. 

Their workman. 

Appearances : 

Far employers.— Sri A. Bhattacharjee, Executive Officer 

For workmen — Shri B. Sarkar, General Secretary. 

Industry: Cantonment Board. State: Bihar. 

Dhanbad, dated the 13th of October, 1969. 

AWARD 

1. The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the Cantonment Board, Dinapore and their 
workman, by Its order No- 9/10/68-LRIII, dated the 24th of May, 1969 referred 
to this Tribunal under section 10(l)(d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for 
adjudication the dispute in respect of the matters specified in the schedule annexed 
thereto. The Schedule Is extracted below: — 

Schedui.e 

“Whether the action of the Cantonment Board Dinapore In terminating the 
services of Sri Chandrika Singh, Electrician, w’lth effect from the 20th 
April, 1968 was justified? If not, to what relief is the workman en- 
titled?” 

2. The employers as well as the workman filed their respective written state- 
ment. It is unnecessary to state the respective cases of the parties because the 
dispute has been settled. On the date fixed for hearing the parties turned up 
with a joint petition of settlement. According to the terms of compromise Sri 
Chandrika Singh, Electrician will be reinstated within one month from the date 




Sbc.3(U)] the OAZEITE OF INDIA; NOV. 22 , 1969/AORAHAYANA 1, 1891 5139 


of publication of the award but he will not be entitled to get his pay and allowances 
trom the date of dismissal to the date ol his reinstatemeni,- He will bo entitled 
to get the beneflt ot leave increment and other benefit of his service which will be 
Testorpd to liim. 

8. The terms arc saUalactory and reasonable and are accepted. Accordingly 
an award is made in terms of the Joint petition of settlement, a copy of which is 
annexed with the award. It may be submitted to the Central Governn;ent under 
section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

(Sd.) Sachidakand Siniia, Presiding Officer. 

'Annexuhe A’ 

BEFORE liON’BLE SACHIDANAND 3INHA, PRESIDING OFFICER 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL -CUM -LAB OUR COUT 

NO. a 

Reference No. 37 of 1669 

In the matter of Industrial Dispute between the Dinapore Cantonment 
Board (in rclaliriu to employer')- 

Versua 


Their workmen, 

The management and the workmen represented by Shrl Barun Sarkar, 
General Secretary, Dinapore Cantt. Board Workers' Union has come 
to an amicable settlement on the above noted Industrial Dispute to 
maintain healthy relation between the employer and employee, 


Both parties most respectfully sheweth: 

1. That Sri Chandrlka Singh, Electrician rvlll bo reinstated within one month 
from the date of the publication of award. 

2. He, Sri Chandrlka Singh agrees to forge his pay and allowances from the 
date of dismissal to the date of Joining duty and for which he will not claim on 
any future date. 

3. He, Sri Chandrika Singh will get the benedt ot leave Increment and other 
benefit of his service which will be restored to him. 

4 . He, Sri Chandrika Singh undertakes to work faithfully and sincerely In the 
-best interest of the ^ard. 


(Sd.J Illegible 
Executive Officer, 
Cantonment Board, 
Dinapore Cantl. 


(Sd.) Illegible, 

Signature of workman- 
(Sd.) Illegible 

Signature of General Secretary, 
Dinapore Cantt. Board Workers’ 
Union. 

[No. 9/10/69-LRin (LB-D.] 


ORDERS 

Neiu Delhi, the 7th Nowember 1969 

S.O, 4701. ^Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 

dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Marine and General 
Insurance Company Limited, Calcutta and their workmen in respect of the matters 
apeclfled in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore. In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
eectlon (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 




5140 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22. 1969/AGRAHAVANA 1, 1891 [Part II— 


Schedule 

"Whether the action ol the manaEcment of Measrs Marine and General 
Insurance Company Limited, Calcutta, in terminating the services o£ 
its employee Sk. Sahabbudin, Driver, with effect from the 20th April, 
1009, is Justified? If not, to what relief Sk. Sahabuddln is entitled?” 

[No. 40/15/69--E.R.-T1 


Neio Delhi, the 12th November 1969 

S.O. 4702. — Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the employers in rela- 
tion to the Chartered Bank, Kanpur and their workmen represented by the UP. 
Bank Employees Union, Kanpur; 

And, wherea.s the said employers and workmen have, rmder sub-section (1) o£ 
Section lOA of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), agreed to refer th* 
dispute to arbitration by arbitration agreement and have forwarded to the Central 
Government under sub-section (3) of section lOA of the said Act a copy of th« 
said arbitration agreement; 

Now, therefore. In pursuance of aub-section (3) of section lOA of the said Act, 
the Central Govrenment hereby publishes the said arbitration agreement which wa* 
lecelved by it on the 6 th November. 1969. 

Aorcement 

(Under Section lO.A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947) 

Between 


Name of Parties: 

Representina employei-f:: .Shrl A. K. Kocker, Accountant, The Chartered. 
Bank, Kanpur. 

Representing workmen ; 

Shrl Harmangal Prasad, Secretary, U.P. Bank Employees Union, Kanpur Unit* 

It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following iudujstrlal dispute 
to the arbitration of Shri V. P. Gupta, Regional Labour Commissioner (Central). 
7/201, Swaroop Nagar, Kanpur. 

(I) Specific matters in dispute: — 

“Whether the management of the Chartered Bank, Kanpur is justified in 
non-payment of Special Assistant allowance of Rs. 76/- per month to 
Shrl Mahendra Nath Nigam of the Chartered Bank, Kanpur from 22nd 
December 1068 and not to change his designation from Clerk te 
Special Assistant? If not, to what relief the workman Is entitled?”. 

(II) Details of the parties to the dispute including the name and address of tji« 
establishment or undertaking involved. 

(a) The Manager, The Chairtered Bank, The Mall, Kanpur. 

(III) The name of the Union, if any. representing the workmen In question, 

(a) The Secretary, U.P. Bank Employees Union, 30/8, Hata Ram Mohan, 

Kanpur. 

(iv) Total number of workmen employed in the undertaking affected — On*. 

(v) Estimated number of workmen affected or likely to be affected by dto- 
pute-^ne. 

The decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on us. 

We further agree that In the case the arbitrators are equally 

divided in their opinion they shall appoint another person as umpire whose awain 
shall be binding on us. 

The arbitrator shall make his award within a period of 31st March, 1970 or 
within such further time as is extended by mutual a^emcnt between us in writlM. 
In ca.4e the award is not made within the period a-orementdoned, the reference fa 




SBC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 514I 


arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and we shall be free to nesotiat© 
for fresh arbitration. 


Bepresenting employers. 

(Sd.) A. K. Kackeh, 27 th October, 1969. 
Accountant, The Chartered Bank. 

The Mall, Kanpur. 

Witnesses. 

1. (Sd.) IllcBlble 

27th October, 1069. 


Representing workmen. 

(Sd.) Har Manual Frasad, 
27th October. 1960. 
Secretary, U.P. Bank 
Employee.s Union, Kanpur 
Unit. 

2. (Sd.) Illegible 

27th October. 1969. 

[No. 24/26/69/LBUI.l 


8.0. 4708, — ^Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to the National and Grindlays Bank Ltd. Kanpur and their workmen re- 
presented by the U.P. Bank Employees Union Kanpur; 

And, whereas the said employers arid workmen have, under sub-section (1) of 
Section lOA of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), agreed to refer th© 
dispute to arbitration by arbitration agreement and have forwarded to the Central 
Government imder sub-section (3) of section lOA of the said Act a copy of the 
said arbitration agreement; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of sub-section (3) of section lOA of the said Act, 
the Central Government hereby pubUshed the said arbitration agreement which was 
received by it on the eth November, 1969. 

Agreement 

(Under Section lOA of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947) 

Between 


Names of Parties: 

Representing employers : 

Mr. A. N. Maclean, Manager, National and Grindlays Bank Limited, Kanpur. 
Representing workmen: 

Shrl Harmangal Prasad, Secretary 

Shri S. N. Chakravarty, Vice-President, U.P. Bank Employees Union, Kanpur. 


It Is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following Industrial dispute 
to me arbitration of Shri V. P. Gupta Keglonal Labour Commissioner (Central) 
7/201 Swaroopnagar, Kanpur-2. ' 


(i) Speclflc matters In dispute. 

“Whether the management of the National and Grindlays Bank Limited 
justifled In withdrawing vide their letter dated 20th August 
1969 the present practice of night refreshment allowance paid In cni«h 
on each half-yearly closing to its workmen at Kanpur: if not, to 
what relief the workmen are entitled?” 


dispute Including the name and address of the 
establishment or undertaking Involved. 

1. The Manager, National and Grindlays Bank Limited. The MaU, Kanpur. 

'Si.® Name of the Union, If any, representing the workmen in question 
The Secretary, U.P. Bank Employees Union, 36/8 Hata Ram Mohan, Kanpur. 

(iv) Total number of workmen employed In the undertaking affected. 99. 

(V) Estimated number of workmen affected or likely to be affected by the dls- 
pute, 99* 


The decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on us. 

1 agree that In the case the arbitrators are equally divided 

m their opinion they shall appoint another person as umpire whose award shall be 
uinain^ on us. 




5142 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [Part 11— 


The arbitrator shall mahe his award within a period oj ,3l3t March 1970 or 
within such further time as la extended by mutual agreement between us in writing. 
In case the award Is not made within the period aforementioned, the reference tq 
arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and we shall be free to negotiate 
for fresh arbitration. 

(Sd-) A, N. Maclean, (Sd-) Hahmangal Prasad, 

representing employer. 23rd October, 1969. 

(Sd.) S. N. CHAKBAVARTy. 
representing the workmen. 

Witnesses; 

1. (Sd.) Illlgible 

2. (Sd.) Uliglble. 

[No. 24/27/89/LRn.] 


New Delhi, the 13th November 1969 

S.O, 4104. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers In relation to the Beas Darn Project and their 
workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 


And, whereas the Centra) Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 


Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
(d) of aub-secllon (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947h 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of wmeh 
Shrl P. P- R. Sawhney shall be the Presiding Officer, with headquarters at Chandi- 
garh and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Tribunal, 


Bcnmni 

“Whether the management of the Beas Dam Project Talwara was justified 
In dismissing Shrl Gopl Chand Rana from service with eflect from the 
23rd June, 1966? If not. to what relief is the workman entitled? 


[No. 4/22/e9/LRin.] 


3. S. SAHASRANAMAN, Under Secy- 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 12th November 1969 

an 4105— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Iron Ore Mines 
T welfare Cess Act 1961 (58 of 1961) read with clause (111) of rule 3 of the 

Labotm Welfare Cess Ach iwoa 1= Buies. 1963, the Central Government, in con- 

Pradesh, hereby appoints 

BUltation with me Go rn LeHlslatlve Assembly, Andhra Pradesh, Nerella, 

Bhrl G, Bhupathy, Member of tlm^Degjslat^^^ ^mo 

JCarlmnagar District, to Andhra Pradesh, constituted by the notiflea- 

Advisory Committee for the State of Labour, Employment and 

tlon of the Government Employment). No. S-O. 4260 dated the 

mh^Slmberl^igeay^rnd makes the following amendment In the said notification, 

namely : — , 

In the said notification, against serial number 3, for the, existing entries, the 
•following entries shall be substituted, namely. o j i,n 

* “Shrl G. Bhupathy, M.L.A., Nerella. Karlmnagar District. Andhra Pradesh . 
Member of the Legislative Assembly. 

[No. P. 10/26/68-M.III.l 
C. R. NAtR, Under Becy. 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5143 


(Department of Labour and Employmeal) 

ORDES 

New Delhi, the 4th November 190Q 

S.O. 4706, — Whereas the Central Government Is of opinion that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers In relation to the management of Messrs 
Lima Leltao & Company Limited, Vasco-da-Gama and their workmen In respect 
of the matters specified In the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal, (No. 11), Bombay, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

The Schedule 

"(1) Whether the action of the management of Messrs Lima Leltao and 
Company Limited, Vasco-da-Gama in retrenching the following 
workmen with effect from 31st December, 1968 and 1st January, 1969 
Is justified; 

(2) If not, to what relief they are entitled to 


Name 


D^signadon 


1. R. J. Fernandes . 

2. S. Mergulhao 

3. Yes Want Par.ickar 

4. R. N. Kalangutker 

5. J, A. Rodrigues , 

6. John Fernandes 

7. Marlanio Nunes . 

8. M. L. Adarker 

9. Anthony Carvalho. 

10. Soma Palkar 

11. Domingos Souza , 

12. Menino A-phonso 

Lauch Crevi 

1. Laxman Chodnakcr 

2. Gurudas Custa Naik 

3. Surya Vithal Potto 

4. Ramachandra S. Naik 

5. Vasudco Parob 

6. Tulsidas M. Corjuenker 

7. Janaraihan C. Naik 

8. Kasinath L. Seth 

9. Sabs Jambo Mojo 


General Clerk. 
Accounts Clerk, 
Driver. 
Supervisor. 
Tally Clerk. 
Tally Clerk. 
Tally Clerk. 
M/L Incharge. 
N/L Assistant, 
Foremen 


Tindcl 

Driver. 

Sailor. 

Tindcl. 

Driver. 

Sailor. 


[No, 29/39/69-LWI-III.] 
C. RAMDAS, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Rehabilitation) 

(Office of the Chief Settlement Commlaakmer) 

New Delhi, the Hth November 1909 

8,0. 4707. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section 1 of Section 34 
of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954), 
the Central Government hereby directs that the powers exercisable by it uhder 



5144 the G. of INDIA: NOV. 22, 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [Part II— Sec. 3(ii)j 


Sub-Section 4 of feectiwna 24, 28 and 33 of the said Act, shall be exercisable also 
by the Secretary to the Government of Haryana, Rehabilitation Department, In 
respect of proceedings pertaining to (1) agricultural lands and shops in any rural 
area including houses, cattle sheds and vacant sites forming part of the Compen- 
sation Pool, and (11) the properties referred to In the Notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Works, Housing and Rehabilitation (Department 
of Rehabilitation) No. 3(37)/L & R-63A dated 5th March, 1964, situate within 
the State of Haryana, subject to tbe condition that he shall not exercise any of 
such powers In relation to any matter In which an order has been made him In 
any other capacity. 

This supersedes this office Notification dated 25i,hAugust/2nd September, 1969. 

[No. F. 3(2)/L&R/69.1 
S. K, GANGOPADHYAY, Jt. Secy. 


PRINTltD BY THK OKNKHAL manager, GOVERNMENT Of INDIA PRESS, MINTO ROAD, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1969 



