REGISTERED No. D. 222 


l 8the ©azcTte 




I tibia 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 13] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY MARCH 30, 1963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 


NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 16th March, 

1963 : — 


Issue 

No. 

No. and Date 

Issued by 

Subject 

15 

S.Os. 674, 675 and 676 
dated 14th March, 1963. 

Ministry of Informa- 
tion and Broadcast- 
ing. 

Approval of films Bpedfied therein. 


S.O. 677j dated 14th March, 

1963- 

Ditto. 

Corrigenda to S.O. 533, dated 
22nd February, 1963. 


S.O. 678, dated 14th March, 
1963. 

Ditto. 

Corrigenda to S.O. 492, dated 16th 
February, 1963. 

46 

S.O. 679 , dated 16th March, 
1963- 

Ditto. 

Approval of films specified therein. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes. 


PART II — Section 3 — Sub-section (ii) 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories). 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, the 20 th March 1963 

8.0. 880— In pursuance of section HI of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the report dated the 2nd March, 
1963 , of the Election Tribunal, Rajnandgaon, 

( 973 ) 




y/4 




- 9. 


BEFORE THE ELECTION TRIBUNAL, RAJNANDGAON 
Presided over by Member, Shrl G, P. Tiwari, B.Sc., LLJB. 

Election Petition No. 321 of 1902 

Viahwanath Yadav Tamaakar, Advocate, Durg, tahail and District Durg, 
M.P. — Petitioner. 


Versus 

1. Mohanlal Bakliwal, son of Premsukh, shopkeeper Durg, tahsil and dte- 

trict Durg, M.P. 

2. Nandlal Sharma, son of Pandit Harischandra Sharma, R. Ml, Shankar 

Road, New Delhi. 

3. Namdas, son of Ghondul by profession Agriculturist of village Mura, 

tahsil and district Raipur, M.P. — Respondents. 

REPORT UNDER SECTION 111 OF THE REPRESENTATION OF THE PEOPLE 

ACT, 1951 

The petitioner applied under section 108 of the Representation of the Peopl* 
Act 1951 for withdrawal of the election petition. Notice was given to all parties, 
and was also published In the Government of India Gazette under section 109(2) 
of the Act, for hearing of the withdrawal application. Under section 110(2) of 
the Act this Tribunal granted the application for withdrawal and thereafter 
directed that notice for withdrawal should be published in the Government of 
India Gazette, under section 110(3) (b) of the Act The notice was, thereafter, 
published in the Gazette of India, Part U, Section 3 (ii) dated the 5th January, 
1963. No one applied under section 110(3) (c) of the Act for being substituted 
In place of the petitioner within 14 days of the above publication. 

2. A report is, therefore, made under section 111 of the Act, I have directed 
that the parties will bear their costs of the petition as incurred by them. 

G. P. Tiwakl 

The 2nd March, 1963. Member, Election Tribunal, Rajnandgaon. 

[No. 82/321/624 


New Delhi, the 25th March 1963 


S.O. 881. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 22 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission 
herebv directs that the following amendment shall be made in its notification 
No. 434/GJ/61, dated the 21st October, 1961, namely; — 


In the Table appended to the said notification in column 3 against item 
No, 13. for the entry “4. Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Ahmedabad City, 
Ahmedabad” the entry “City Deputy Collector, Ahmedabad” shall 


be substituted. 


[No. 434/GJ/63.1 


By order, 

PRAKASB NARAIN, Secy. 


New Delhi, the 23 rd March 1963 

S.O. 882. — In piiminnre of flection 106 of the Representation of the People 
Act 1951, the Election Commission herebv publishes the Order pronounced on the 
16th February, 1903, by the Election Tribunal, Rajnandgaon. 

BEFORE THE MEMBER ELECTION TRIBUNAL. RAJNANDGAON 
Presided over by Shri G. P. Tiwari, B Sc., LL.B. 

Election Petition No. 40 of ”1962 

Bashir Ahmed Qureshi, aged 54 years, son of late Lai Mohammed, by occupa- 
tion cultivator, resident of Gondpara, Bilaspur, tahsil and dist, Bilaspur. Madhya 
Pradesh— Petitioner. 

Versus 

Satya Prakash, aged 46 years, son of Chandanram. by occupation Building 
Contractor, resident of Davabhai Marg, Bilaspur, Tahsil and District Bilaspur; 
Madhya Pradesh — Respondent 




ORDER 

(passed on this 16th day of February, 1963 ) 

This is an election petition under section 81 of the Representation of People 
Act, 1961, hereinafter referred to as the Act. 

2. The petitioner Bashir Ahmed Qureshi was a candidate for election to the 
House of People from Bilaspur Parliamentary Constituency in Bilaspur district 
■of Madhya Pradesh, in the last general election. The respondent Satya Prakash 
and three others namely Jamuna Prasad Verma, Nandkishore Pande and Satya- 
narain Kemriwal, were validly nominated candidates from the aforesaid House of 
People Constituency. The respondent was declared elected to the House of 
People on 28th February, 1962, by the Returning Officer, Bilaspur. The petitioner 
had submitted three nomination papers before the Returning Officer, Bilaspur. 
On 22nd January, 1962, the date fixed for scrutiny of the nomination papers, one 
Ramashanker Tiwari a proposer of the respondent, filed written objection, before 
the Returning Officer, against the nomination of the petitioner. After hearing 
the parties the Returning Officer rejected the nomination paper of the petitioner 
by an order, dated 23rd January. 1962, holding that the petitioner incurred dis- 
qualification under section 7(d) of the Act. 

3. There was a contract between the Combined Transport Services (Pvt.) Ltd., 
Bilaspur and the Central Government, through Post and Telegraph Department, 
for carrying of mail. The contract was subsisting on the date when the nomina- 
tion paper of the petitioner was rejected by the Returning Officer, and It is sub- 
sisting even now. The petitioner at the relevant time held and even now holds 
79 shares out of a total of 1140 shares in the Combined Transport Services. On 
the basis of the above admitted facts, the Returning Officer, under order, dated 
23rd January, 1962, held that the petitioner incurred disqualification under sec- 
tion 7(d) of the Act and, therefore, the nomination of the petitioner was rejected. 

4. In his petition filed before the Election Commission of India, the petitioner 
has challenged the order, dated 23rd January, 1962 of the Returning Officer, on 
the following grounds: 

(i) The contract entered into between the Combined Transport Services 
Limited with the Post and Telegraph Department, was not and can- 
not be deemed to he, a contract between the petitioner and the Cen- 
tral Government, in the course of his (petitioner’s) trade or business. 

f ii) MereN by holding some shares in the Combined Transport Services, the 
petit-oner cannot be deemed to be a contracting party. 

(iii) The contract for carrying mail does not amount to either a contract for 
supply of goods to, or for execution of works, undertaken by the 
Central Government. 

The petitioner has, therefor 3 , contended that there was no contract between the 
petitioner and the Central Government (Post and Telegraph Department) under 
section 7(d) of the Act (as amended by Act 58 of 1958) so as to incur a disqualifica- 
tion. The rejection of the nomination paper of the petitioner, by the Returning 
Officer, Bilaspur was, therefore, illegal. The petitioner has, therefore, challenged 
the election of the respondent as void, under section 100(1) (c) of the Act. 

5. In reply to the petition the respondent has contended that the contract is 
for and on behalf of the petitioner who is a beneficiary and who receives his share 
In the money received from the Government of India. The contract is for execu- 
tion of works, that is, for carrying mail bags, which the Combined Transport 
Services has entered in course of their business. The petitioner receives a regular 
monthly pay from the Combined Transport Services, and he also receives his 
share of profits. There da a private arrangement among the bus owners of Com- 
bined Transport Servic*s, that each will be entitled to profit individually, or liable 
to loss, resulting from plying of buses of particular routes. In pursuance of this 
private arrangement the buses owned by the petitioner and his brothers operate 
on Bilaspur-Katghora routes. These buses carry mail to various destinations, 
under special terms imposed in issuing permits by the Government, in the course 
•of business, on remuneration. The income and remuneration received from the 
Government of India (Post and Telegraph Department), is aoproprlated by the 
owners of the buses, that is. the petitioner and his brothers. The contract is thus 
for all practical purposes, personal contract of the petitioner with the Government 
of India, entered during the course of business. The petitioner, therefore, incurs 
■disqualification under section 7(d) of the Act. It is further pleaded by the res- 
pondent that as a result of the contract, the petitioner occupies office of profit 



17 6 TH E GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 1963/CHAITRA 0, 1885 [Part II— 


inder Government of India, and is, therefore, disqualified for being chosen as a 
Member of the House of People, under Article 102 of the Constitution of India. 

0. In reply to the contentions and the allegations raised by the respondent, the 
petitioner in his reply stated that he is not a beneficiary in the profits of the 
business of the Combined Transport Services. The contract Is not for and on 
behalf of the petitioner. The petitioner merely receives his share in the total 
profits made in the business and not specifically in the sum received from the 
government on the contract. With respect to the private arrangement alleged 
by the respondent, the petitioner stated that, for the purpose of efficient manage- 
ment of business the Combin d Transport Services has formed a number of 
groups, each group comprising a number of share-holders. Each group has been 
separately placed in-charge of management of business in relation to routes allot- 
ted to it, and has been authoris.d to share amongst its constituents the net profits 
and losses appertaining to the part of the business placed under its management. 
The general power to conduct and control the business made over to the diflirent 
groups, however, remains vested in the Combined Transport Services. The peti- 
tioner b longs to only one such group which is called Katghora group. This 
arrangement was made in accordance with an agreement, dated 4th December, 
1900. This agreement operates without reference to the Government and is 
Independent of the contract of carrying mail with the Government. The peti- 
tioner has contended that by reason of the above mentioned arrangement or 
formation of groups, the contract with the Government, does not become a 
personal contract of the petitioner. 

7, On the contentions of the parties the following issues have been raised and 
the findings are noted against each issue: 

Issues Findings 

1(a) Whether there is a private Tire group consisting of 4 share- 
arrangement among the bus holders, including the petitioner, is- 

owners of Combined Trans- responsible for managing and ope- 

port Company that each own- rating Bilaspur-Katghora routes and 

er will be entitled to profit this group is entitled to profits re- 

individually or liable to loss, ceived in operating these routes, 

from plying of buses on a 
particular route? 

(b) Whether the buses owned by The buses allotted to the above group 

the petitioner run on Bilas- operate on Bilaspur-Katghora routes. 

pur-Katghora road? 

(c) Whether these buses carry The above mentioned buses carry 

mail to different destinations mail on the Bilaspur-Katghora 

on Bilaspur-Katghora road? routes. 

(d) Whether the contract is. The contract in question is not a 

therefore, a personal contract personal contract of the petitioner 

of the petitioner with the with the Government of India in 

Government of India in the the course of his trade or business, 

course of business for person- 
al gain, or benefit of peti- 
tioner? 

(e) Whether the petitioner re- See finding 1(a). 

ceives the money received 

from the Government of India 
for the purpose of carrying 
mail? 

H(a) Whether the contract men- The contract in question is not for 

tion'd above amounts to con- supply of goods to or for execution 

tract for supply of goods to or of any works undertaken by the 

for execution of works under- Government of India, 

taken by the Government of 
India? 

(b) Whether the petitioner occu- The petitioner does not occupy office 

pies office of profit under Gov- of profit under the Government of 

ernment of India? India. 

(c) Whether this amounts to dis- There i,s no disqualification under 

oualiflcation under section section 7fd) of the Act or under 

7(d) of th’ Representation of Article 102 of the Constitution of 

People Act, 1951 and Article India. 

102 of the Constitution of 
India? 


Sec. S(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 1963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 


977 


Issues 


Findings 


IH(a) Whether the rejection of nomi- 
nation of petitioner by Re- 
turning Offiqer, Bilaspur was 
illegal and improper? 

(b) Should the election of the 
respondent be declared void? 

IV What direction regarding cost 
should be made? 


Yes. 


Yes. 

The respondent shall bear his costa 
and shall pay petitioner’s costs. 


Reasons for the Findings 

8. Issues No. I(a)(b)(c) and (e). — These issues are issues of facts which are 
in dispute in th.- pleadings of the parties. It is admitted in the pleadings of the 
parties that the petitioner is a share-holder of the Combined Transport Services 
(Private) Limited, Bilaspur, hereinafter re'erred to as C.T.S., for the sake of 
brevity. He holds 79 out of 1140 shares. It is further admitted that there was a 
contract between the Managing Director of the C.T.S. and the Central Govern- 
ment (Post and Telegraph Department) for carrying of mail bags. The contract 
In question according to the evidence of R.W, 2 R.G. Sapra, who was and is the 
Managing Director of the C.T.S., is contained in a document of which Ex. R-5, is 
the true copy. The contract is for carrying mail from Bilaspur to Katghora and 
vice versa for a consideration of Rs. 90 per month. The contract was for the 
period, 1st September, 1957 to 31st August, 1960. The admitted pleadings of the 
parties and the evidence of R.W. 2 R. G. Sapra and P.W.l the petitioner, would 
show that the contract was subsisting on the relevant date l.e., the date of the 
nomination and is continuing and subsisting even to-day, though no fresh agree- 
ment was made. 

9. From the evidence of R.W. 2 R. G. Sapra, Managing Director, ’\ho has depos- 
ed with reference to the records of the C.T.S. and also from the evidence of the 
petitioner himself it would further appear, that for efficient and proper manage- 
ment of the business of the C.T.S, four different groups have been formed under 
four different agre.ments, dated 4th December, 1960, The group with which 1 am 
concerned is called the Katghora-Bilaspur group and the copy of the relevant 
agreement with respect to this group is Ex. R-4. The agreement was made 
between the Managing Director. R. G. Sapra, on behalf of the C.T.S. and Nazir 
Ahmed Qqreshi, a director of the C.T.S. on behalf of the group, It would appear 
from the evidence and also from Ex. R-4 that each group was allotted certain 
shareholders, some specified vehicles and c rtain routes. The share holders in 
the Katghora-Bilaspur group are petitioner Bashir Ahmed Qureshi, Nazir Ahmed 
Qureshi. Maksud Ahmed Qureshi and Raja Saheb I). R. Singh. The first named 
three persons are brothers. Of these four persons Nazir Ahmed, who is the Direc- 
tor of the C.T.S. is the incharge. It would further appear from the evidence and 
also from the agreement Ex. R-4, that each group is responsible for repairs, up- 
keep and maintenance of vehicles allotted to it and administration and control 
of the employees allotted to it. 

10. It would, however, appear from the evidence and different clauses in Ex, 
R-4 that the C.T.S, has over all control and supervision ov r the different groups. 
It would also appear that C.T.S. has power under the agreement to change the 
routes, the staff and the shareholders in each group. The evidence also discloses 
that the daily earnings made by a group are deposited in the accounts of the 
C.T.S. The C.T.S. after deducting exn -nses and contribution, credits the net 
income to the account of the group, The remuneration is received from the 
Postal Department by the Managing Director of the C.T S. It is credited on that 
particular day, to tb° earnings of the group concerned, In this case the mail 
bags are carried on Bilaspur-Katgbora routes which is allotted to the group of 
which the petitioner is one shareholder. The monthly remuneration of Rs. 90 
which h received L-om the postal department, by the Managing Director is 
credited on the date of receipt, to the account of this group. It further appears 
from the evidence that the petitioner receives a monthly allowance of Rs, 200 
for doing some work in the C.T.S. Some fixed annual salary has also been sanc- 
tioned to be paid to the petitioner by the C.T.S., but it has not been paid, because 
of bad financial condition of the C,T S. The petitioner was a Director of the 
CTS till 17th January, 1957, on which date his resignation was accepted vide 
resolution, dated 17th January, 1957, Fx. P.2. The petitioner, therefore, ceased 
to be a Director from 17th January, 1957. 



978 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 1963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Part II— 


11. In view of the admitted facts and the evidence discussed above, the finding 
on issue No. 1(a) and (o) is that the group consisting of share-holders Nazir 
Ahmed Qureshi, Bashir Ahmed Qureshi ( Petitioner), Moksud Ahmed Qureshi and 
Raja Saheb D. R. Singh are responsible for managing and operating the Katghora- 
Bilaspur routes and the buses allotted for these routes. This group is entitled to 
profits, if any, received in operating these routes. The finding on issue No. 1(b) 
is that the buses allotted to the group operate on Bilaspur-Katghora routes. On 
issue No. 1(c) the finding is that the above mentioned buses carry mail on the 
above mentioned Bilaspur-Katghora routes. 


12. Issues No. II (a) and 1(b). — These are the main issues of the case. For th* 
purpose of d ciding these issues it is necessary to quote the provisions of sec- 
tion 7(d) of the Act as it stands now, and as it stood before the amending Act 
No. 58 of 1958. The present section 7(d) is reproduced below: 

“7(d) if there subsists a contract entered into in the course of his trade or 
business by him with the appropriate Government for the supply of 
goods to, or for the execution of any works undertaken by, that 
Government;” 

The section as it stood before amending Act 58 of 1956, is reproduced below: 

“7(d) if, whether by himself or by any person or body of persons in trust 
for him or for his ben fit or on his account, he has any share or 
interest in a contract for the supply of goods to, or for the execution 
of any works or the performance of any services undertaken by, th* 
appropriate Government;” 

With respect to the present case, two questions arise for decision in view of sec- 
tion 7(d) as it stands now. These are (i) whether the contract in question which 
is still continuing or subsisting, can be said to be a personal contract of the peti- 
tioner, and (li) whether the contract in question can be said to be a contract for 
the execution of any works. I will take up the second point first. In AIR. 1155 
Supreme Court, 459: N. Satyanathan v. K. Subramanayan and others , the case 
was one of ctirnafie or transport of mail bags and a disqualification under sec- 
tion 7(d) of th L ' Act, as it stood before the amending Act, 58 of 1958, was consi- 
d red bv their Lordships of the Supreme Court, It was held that this was a 
case of performance of services. In the case reported m 9 Election Law Reports 
(ELR) 324- Satyanathan v, Subramanyam and others (this is the same case 
which went up to the Supreme Court and which is ref err- d above) the Madras 
High Court was considering the same question regarding carnage of mail. It has 
heen held that carriage of mail is performance of services undertak n by the 
Government. In A.I.R. 1961 Sunreme Court, 480: Ram Padarath Mahte i v. Mishri 
Sinba and another, their Lordships of the Supreme Court were considering the 
question of disqualification under section 7(d) of the .. Ac t “ 

amendment. The question in this case was one of bailment and it was not h Id 
to be a contract for the purpose o* performance of services. This case, therefore,, 
does not help the argument advanced by the learned counsel of the petitioner. 

13 It is a cardinal principle of rational interpretation that the amended sec- 
tion should be read along with the section as it stood before the amendment. In 
A T r> isfio Madhya Pradesh Law Journal, 495: Corporation of the City of Nagpur 
v si EmplSes. y wWch is a Supreme Court case, it has been held that the ol- 
io wing matters should be considered for arriving at the real meaning of th* 
was the law before the Act was passed, (2) W^at was tie niis- 
r^e? or not provided; (3) What remedy Legislature 
has annointed and (4) The reason of the remedy. The relevant observations are 
in na? H P 9 at nave 500 In A.I.R. 1962, Madhya Pradesh, 73: Dr, S. C. Barat and 
another v Ilari^Vinay'ak Pataskar and others, it has been held that it is legitima e 
another v. i i v y qubiect stood before the Constitution, and the defect 

nJor^ old liw contain ed 3 and the °remedy provided by the Constitution to 
w^theodlaw conminea a a er - ect ly comnetent and legitimate to refer 

J ft stood b&re liTa™ Idment.V order » And out the Intent, on ol 

the Legislature, in construing or interpreting the amended law. 

14. In AIR. 1961. Allahabad 321: Messrs A. Tellery and Sons v. Carpet Maz- 
daoz Sab ha and others, his Lordship has held in para 9: 

«rr , on'nion it thfrp N a law which is to the knowledge of the legii- 
111 "UTand f any analog Taw is being made and .the Legislature 
not incorporate a portion of that law then the intention pf the 
Legislature C clearly la that it did not list to incorporate a similar 
provision in its Act** 



too. 3<U)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MARCH 30, 196S/CHAITRA 9, 1885 


979 


Tn A.I.R. 1958 M.P. 168; Hari Vishnu Kumath v. Election Tribunal, Jabalpur 
end another, it has been held in para 20 as follows; 

“Now, the rule of interpretation is that when the Legislature amends an 
Act by deleting something which was there, then in the absence of 
an Intention to the contrary the deletion must be taken to ba 
deliberate.” 

15. A.I.R. Manual, Vol. 13 (2nd Edition) at page, 1028 mentions the objects 
and reasons of substitution of new clause (d) of section 7 of the Act in place 
of old clause (d) of section 7. The objects and reasons of the Legislature a* 
stated are as follows; 

“The language of section 7(d) of the 1951 Act which provides for dis- 
qualification in case of contracts with tile Government is wide and 
vague enough to bring any kind of category of contract within its 
scope and it has been a fruitful source of election disputes in the 
past Persons who only occasionally broadcast any talk from the 
radio station or contribute any article to any Government publi- 
cation may come within the mischief of this section. It is accord- 
ingly proposed to redraft section 7(d) in a simpler and more rational 
way so as to bring within its purview only two categories of con- 
tracts entered into by a person with the Government in the course 
of his trade or business. These two categories are contracts for the 
supply of goods and contracts for the execution of any works.” 

In the Law of Elections and Election Petitions in India. 3rd Edition) 1962 by 
Nanak Chand Pandit and Gyan Chand Malhur, the learned commentators at 
page 290 referring to the amended section 7(d) of the Act, have made the follow- 
ing observations; 

“Two major changes are brought in by the amendment. First whereas 
under the old clause a person was disqualified if he had any share 
or interest in such' a contract whether entered into by himself or 
any other person or body; now under the present clause the con- 
tract must be entered into by that person himself. Secondly, 
whereas under the old section a person having an interest in a 
contract for the performance of any services undertaken by the 
Government was also disqualified, under the present clause this is 
no longer a disqualification. Under the persent clause (d), a person 
shall be disqualified for being chosen as and for being a member 
of either House of Parliament or the Legislative Assembly or Legis- 
lative Council of a State if there subsist a contract with the appro- 
priate Government entered into by him in the course of his trade 
and business — 

(i) for the supply of goods to that Government or 
(11) for the execution of any works undertaken by the Government. 

16. In the amended section 7(d) of the Act there is omission of the expres- 
sion ‘performance of services’, which expression was included in the unamended 
Act- This omission has, therefore, been deliberately made by the Legislature 
as held in the authorities cited above regarding principles of interpretation. The 
argument of the learned counsel for the respondent is that the omission has been 
made because the expression ‘performance of services’ was considered to be 
superfluous and it could be included in the expression ‘execution of works’. 
This argument is obviously untenable and cannot be accepted. The Legislature 
had purposely used three different expressions; (i) supply of goods, (ii) execu- 
tion of any works, (Hi) performance of any services, in section 7(d) as it stood 
before the amendment. In the amended section 7(d) the Legislature omitted 
the only one expression ‘performance of any services’ and retained the other 
two expressions. An indication of the reasons why the expression ‘performance 
of any services’ was omitted, would appear from the objects and reasons stated 
earlier, In A.I.R, 1960 Madhya Pradesh Law Journal, 1002; Shyamlal Lachman 
v. Umacharan Tiwari, it has been held that if Legislature uses certain expres- 
sion which was previously interpreted by Courts, the presumption is that the 
expression is used in the sense as stated in judicial decisions. In the present 
case the judicial decisions with respect to the unamended act cited earlier lay 
down, that carriage or transport of mail, would be performance of services. In 
ordinary parlance also carriage or transport of mail would be performance of 
services and it could not be called or construed as execution of works. Execu- 
tion of works would, in my opinion be of the nature of construction of build- 
ings, bridges, roads, etc. 



980 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 1963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Part II- 


17. In 7 E.L.R., 416: In re Siddalingaiya, Member, Mysore Legislative Assem- 
bly a case before the Election Commission of India the expression ‘contract for 
execution of works’ was considered. It was observed that the expression ‘any 
works’ cannotes something to be built or constructed and does not mean some- 
thing to he done. In my opinion, therefore, the carriage or transport of mail 
bags cannot, therefore, be said to be covered by the expression 'execution of 
any works’. It can only be covered by the expression 'performance of any 
services’. I, therefore, hold that the carriage or transport of mail bags amounts 
to performance of services, and it cannot bo construed as execution of any 
works. Consequently there cannot be any disqualification under section 7(d) 
of the Act as it stood after the amendment by Act 58 of 1958. 

18. The next question would be whether the contract in question can. be 
said to be a personal contract of the petitioner. At the beginning I have repro- 
duced 'section 7(d) of the Act as it stood before the amendment and also as it 
stood after the amendment of 1958. In the section as it stood before amend- 
ment the relevant expressions were ‘whether by himself or body of persons in 
trust for him or for his benefit or on his account, he has any share or interest 
in a contract’. In the present amended section the relevant expression is ‘if 
there subsists a contract entered into in the course of his trade or business by 
him with the appropriate Government’. Under the old section before the amend- 
ment a person was disqualified if he had any share or interest in a contract 
whether entered into by himself or any other person or body. The present law 
as it stands after amendment only hits a contract which is entered into by the 
person himself. In this connection reference may be made to the objects and 
reasons for the amendment as stated in A.I.R. Manual, Vol. 13, 2nd Edition, at 
page 1028, which have been reproduced by me earlier. A reference may also 
be made to the Law of Elections and Election Petitons in India, 3rd (1962) 
Edition by Nanakchand and Gyan Chand at page 290 from which I have quoted 
earlier. The intention of the relevant provision in section 7(d) as h stands 
after the amendment is, therefore, very clear. It hits at contracts entered into 
by the person himself with the appropriate Government in course of trade or 
business. 

19. In the present case before me the contract Ex. R-5 was entered into 
between the Managing Director of the C.T.S. and the Union Government (Post 
and Telegraph Department). That contract was for the period 1st September, 
1957 to 31st August, 1960. Tt is clear from evidence that the same contract is 
continuing and subsisting. The contract is for carrying mail on Katghora- 
Bilaspur routes. These routes have been allotted to a group consisting of four 
shareholders including the petitioner. This was under an agreement contained 
in Ex. P-4. The agreement was made between the Managing Director repre- 
senting C.T.S. and Nazir Ahmed (a Director) representing the group of four 
shareholders. I have already said earlier that the division Into four different 
groups including the above mentioned group, was made lor efficient manage- 
ment, under four different agreements one with each group, all dated 4th Decem- 
ber 1960. Ex. R-4 is one of them. The agreement lays down the terms and 
conditions of management by a group. There is also evidence of R.W. 2 R. G. 
Sapre and the petitioner on this point, a reference to which has already been 
made. Though each group, including the group with which I am concerned, 
has been given complete power with respect to its internal management, it would 
clearly appear from R-4 and also from evidence, that the central body 
of the C.T.S. has over all control and supervision over the different groups. The 
daily income received by a group, is credited to its account in the registers of 
Ihe C.T.S. The C.T.S. thereafter deducts that day’s expenses, if any, and con- 
tribution from the income, and credits the net income to the group. The income 
Is given to the group. The remuneration or consideration of Rs. 90/- is received 
by the Managing Director and this amount Is also credited to the income of the 
group in that day’s account. Tt would further appear from evidence tV’t the 
group keeps accounts of its net income. The expenses incurred by th n group 
are deducted and what is left is divided amongst the shareholders in the pro- 
portion of Iheir shares. In edition to the above evidence it would also further 
appear from evidence, that the petitioner receives Rs, 290/- per month as allow- 
ance for doing certain work assicned to him bv C.T.S. Some annual ,s-dnry 
was also sanctioned by the C.TS. for payment to the petitioner. That is all the 
evidence regarding the interest of the petitioner in the contract concerned, 

20. The contract concerned was, therefore, between the Managing Director 
of the C T S. and the Central Government Ihreimb Post and Telegraph ’DenoTt- 
ment. Though the contract has cxnir-'i il is s’iR continuing and sub-m+; ri( , i 
The execution of the contract has merclv been c'-sirnot) under tbo terms n p <be 
agreement dated 4th December 1960 to the p r0U p consisting of four shareholders 




Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 1%3/CHAITRA 9, 1885 981 


Including the petitioner, The petitioner is merely entitled to get profits, if there 
are any in management and operation of his group. He is also entitled to 
receive certain allowances and pay from the C.T.S. With these facts it cannot 
be held that the contract concerned was entered into by the petitioner in the 
course of his trade or business. In this connection the learned counsel for the 
respondent has cited before me the following three cases: — 


(i) 9 E.L.R. 471 : A. J. Arunachalam v. Election Tribunal, Vellore, and others. 


(li) 11 E.L.R. 301 : Bhikaji Keshan Joshi and another v. Brijlal Nandlal 
Bivani and others. 


(ill) 13 E.L.R. 334 : Dr. Deorao Lakshman AnUnda v. Keshav Lakshman 
Borkar. 


The learned counsel for the respondent has urged that these cases contain the 
principles for determining whether a person has interest in a contract. 


21. The case in 9 E.L.R., 471 of the Madras High Court is with respect to dis- 
qualification under section 7(d) of the Act as it stood before the amendment. The 
principles laid down in this case are with respect to section 7(d) of the Act as 
It stood before the amendment. They would not apply to the facts of the present 
case, for the obvious reason that the present section 7(d) has been materially 
changed by the amendment. The case reported in 11 E.L.R.. 301 is also with 
respect to disqualification under section 7(d) of the Act as it stood before the amend- 
ment. For the same reason the principles enunciated in this case would not apply 
to the facts of the present case. The case reported in 13 E.L.R., 334 is on a different 
point. It is with respect to disqualification under article 191 of the Constitution 
of India. The principles in this case would not, therefore, apply to the present case. 


22. Besides the above cases the learned counsel for the respondent has also 
cited A.I.R. 1954 Supreme Court, 23G; Chatturbhuj Vithaldas Jasani v. Morashirar 
Parashrarn and others. This was also a case of disqualification under section 7(d) 
of the Act as it stood before the amendment. The principles laid down in this 
case would not, therefore, apply to the facts of the present case. Another case 
cited by the learned counsel of the respondent is of 20 E L.R., 325: Brojagopal 
Das v. Kalipada Barter'/ ’? and others of the Calcutta High Court. This waa 
also a case of disqualification under section 7(d) of the Act as it stood before 
the amendment. For the same reason as stated above the principles in this 
case would not apply to the facts of the present case. 


23. The position would, therefore, be that the contract cannot be said to 
have been entered by the petitioner. At best it may be said that the petitioner 
has remote and indirect interest in the contract, because the remuneration of 
the contract is indirectly received by the group to which the petitioner belongs. 
Such remote and indirect interest in the contract is not hit by the present sec- 
tion 7(d) as it stands now after the amending Act No. 58 of 1958 though 
possibly it might have been hit by section 7(d) as it stood before the amendment. 
I am not, however, called upon to decide this aspect of the case. My conclu- 
sion is, therefore, that the contract in question cannot be said to be a contract 
by the petitioner in the course of his trade or business. On issue No. 1(d) 
the finding is, therefore, that the contract in question is not a personal contract 
of the petitioner with the Government of India in the course of his trade or 
business and it is not bit by section 7(d) of the Act as it stands now. The 
finding on issue No 11(a) is that the contract in question is not for supply 
of poods to or for the execution of any woiks undertaken by the Government 
of India. It is not, therefore, hit by section 7(d) of the Act as it stands now. 


24. Issues No, 11(b) and (c).— The next question w'hich arises for decision 
is whether the petitioner occupies office of rrofit under the GoveTiment of 
India. The respondent has raised an obicetion that the petitioner occupies office 
of profit under the appropriate Government and he is, therefore, disqualified 



982 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, I963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Part H- 


under Article 102 of the Constitution of India. The relevant portion of Article- 
102 is quoted below: 

“102. Disqualifications for membership. — (1) A peu.oa shall be disqualifi- 
ed for being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House 
of Parliament — 

(a) if he holds any office of profit under the Government of India or 
the Government of any State, other than an office declared by 
Parliament by law not to disqualify its holder;” 

It Is admitted by the counsel for both parties that the question of disqualifi- 
cation under Article 102 was raised before the Returning Officer who did not 
give any finding regarding this. It is also accepted by both counsel that this 
point can be raised and agitated for the first time before an Election Tribunal 
even though it was not raised before the Returning Officer. I will, therefore, 
discuss tins aspect of the case. The case cited by the learned counsel for the 
respondent is o£ 13 E.L.R. 334: Dr. Deorao Lakshman Ananda v. Keshav Laks h- 
man Borkar of the Bombay High Court. It has been laid down that the test 
for deciding whether an office is under the Government, are: (i) what autho- 
rity has the power to make an appointment to the office concerned, ( 2 ) what 
authority can take disciplinary action and remove or dismiss the holder of the 
office and (3) by whom and from what source is his remuneration paid. It 
has further been laid down that of these, the first two are more important than 
the third. 

25. The learned counsel for the petitioner has relied in this connection on 

the case reported in A.I.R. 1958 Supreme Court, 52: Abdul Shakur v. Rikhab 
Chand and another. In this cose it has been held that the power of the Govern- 
ment to appoint a person to an office of profit or to continue him in that office 
or to revoke his appomtment at their discretion, and payment from out of the 
Government revenues, are important factors in determining whether a person 
holds an office of profit under the Government. Applying the above tests to 
the facts of this case it cannot be said by any stretch of imagination that the 
petitioner occupies office of profit. Firstly the petitioner does not occupy any 
office. At best he may be a remote and indirect beneficiary under a contract 
entered into by the C.T.S. with the Government of India. That position can- 
not be said to be an office. In my opinion, even if there was a direct contract 
between the petitioner and the Government of India, even then the petitioner 
could not be said to be a holder of office of profit for the simple reason that 
entering into a contract for carriage of mail could not be said to be an office. 
My finding on issue No. 11(b) is, therefore, that the petitioner does not occupy 
office of profit under the Government of India. On issue No. 11(c) my finding 
is that the petitioner could not and does not incur disqualification either under 
section 7(d) of the Act as it stands now or under Article 102 of the Consti- 
tution of India. I I 

26. Issues No. Ill (a) and (b), — As the petitioner did not incur disqualification 
under Article 102 of the Constitution of India, or section 7(d) of the Act, the 
rejection of his nomination by the Returning Officer, was illegal and improper. 
The election of respondent is, therefore, void under section 100(1) (c) of the 
Act. On issue No. Ill (a) the finding is that the nomination of the petitioner 
was illegally rejected by the Returning Officer, Bilaspur. On issue No. 111(b) 
the finding is that the election of the respondent is void under section 100 ( 1 ) (c) 
of the Act. I, therefore, declare the election of the respondent to the Hous* 
of People Constituency of Bilaspur, as void. 

27. As the petition succeeds, the petitioner is entitled to his costs. I, there- 
fore, direct that the respondent will bear his coats of the petition and he will 
pay costs to the petitioner. 

Pleader fee Rs. 250/- if certified 


SdJ- G. P, Tiwajo, 
Member, 

Election Tribunal, Rajnandgaon, 

10-2-196* 


Camp: Bilasptth. 



Sma, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH SO, 196S/CHAITRA 9, 1885 98 J 



Schedule of 

Costs 




Particulars 

Appellant 

Respondent 



Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 

1. 

Stamp far application 

, 

* 


2. 

Stamp for paper 

S 

00 

3 00 

3. 

Service of processea 

1 

25 

3 75 


D.M. & T. E. 

6 

00 

50 00 

4. 

Pleader’s fee allowed 

. 250 

00 

not certified 

3. 

Other costs— 





(i) Exhibits 

1 

87 

. . 


(ii) Writing charges 

* 




(iii) Miscellaneous application* 

2 

00 

8 00 


Total 

. 264 

12 

04 73 


G.T. 

Rs. 328 87 




f 

Sd./- 

G. P. Tiwahi, 





Member, 



Election Tribunal, Rajnandgaon, 





16-2-1063. 


True copy. 


Sd./- 

G. P. Tiwahi, 





1 Member, 


1 

Election Tribunal, Rajnandgaon, 





16-2-19C3. 





[No. 82/40/62.) 
By Order, 




A. N. SEN. Under Secy., 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 19 th March 1963 

S.O. 883. — In exercise of the powers conferred by entry 3(c) 1 of Schedule 1 
Annexed to the Ministry of Home Affairs Notification No. 15/13/59-(V)-P.IV, 
dated the 13th July 1962 [GSR No. 991, published in the Gazette of India Part II, 
aeetion 3, sub-s ction (ii), dated the 28th July 1962], the Central Government i* 
pleased to specify: — 

(i) Yuvaraj Shri Ravindra Bahadur Singh, and 

(11) Raikumar Shri Shivendra Bahadur Singh sons of the Ruler of 
Khaira^arh for the purpose of that entry and directs that the 
exemption shall be valid In respect of one 12 bore gun, one rifle and 
one pistol/revolver each. 

This Ministry's notification No. 10/12/60-P.IV, dated the 29th November, 1900, 
i* hereby cancelled. 


[No. 16/3/63-P.IV.) 
L, I. PARMA, Dy. S*cy. 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 1963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Part H- 


New Delhi, the 2Ui March, 1903 

S.O. 884.— Whereas arrangements have been made by the Central Govern- 
ment with the Government of Ghana lor taking the evidence of witnesses residing 
In Ghana in relation to criminal matters In courts in India, the Central Govern- 
ment, in pursuance of sub section (3> of section 504 of the Code of Criminal Pro- 
cedure, 1808 (5 of 1898), hereby directs that commissions from courts in India for 
ths examination of witnesses in Ghana shall be issued in the form annexed hereto, to 
Ihe High Court of Gnana and that such commissions shall be sent to the Ministry 
ol External Affairs, Government of India, New Delhi, for transmission to the High. 
Court of Ghana. 


IN THE COURT OF 

Commission to examine witness outside India [Section 504(3) of .the Code of 

Criminal Procedure, 1898]. 


To 


Through the Ministry of External Affairs 
Government of India, New Delhi 

Whereas it appears to me that the evidence of is necessary for the 

ends of justice in case No. Vs. in the Court of -and 

that such witness is residing within the local limits of your jurisdiction and his 
attendance cannot be procured without unreasonable delay, expense or Incon- 
venience, I— — —have the honour to request and do hereby request that 

for the reasons aforesaid and for the assistance of the said Court you will bo 
pleased to summon the said witness to attend at such time and place as you shall 
appoint and that you will cause such witness to be examined upon the interroga- 
tories which accompany this Commission (for viva voce). 

Any party to the proceeding may appear before you by his counsel or agent or 
if not in custody, In person and may examine, cross examine or re-examine (aa 
the case may be) the said witness. 

And I further have the honour to reouest that you will be pleased to cause the 
answers of the said v Itness to be redotffc! into writing and all books, letters, papers, 
and documents produced upon such examination to be duly marked for indenti- 
flcatlon and Ihnt you will be further pleased to authenticate such examination by 
your official seal (if any) and by your signature and to return the same together 
■with this commission to the undersigned through the Ministry of External Affairs, 
Government of India, New Delhi. 

Given under my hand and the seal of the Court this day of — - — — — — —19 . 

Judge, District Magistrate 
Presidency Magistrate. 

[No, r.ll/3/61-JudI.IL] 
B. SHUKLA, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 19 th March 1963 

S.O, 885. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (5) of section 
3 of the Emergency Risks (Goods) Insurance Act, 1962 (62 of 1962), the Central 
Government hereby mak=s the following scheme to amend the Emergencv Risks 
(Goods) Insurance Scheme issued with the notification of Government of India 
in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs) No, S.O. 3945, dated 
the 26th December, 1962, namely: — 

1. (1) This scheme may be called the Emergency Risks (Goods) Insurance 
(Amendment) Scheme, 1963. 

(2) It shall come into force on the first day of April, 1963. 

2. In the Emergency Risks (Goods) Insurance Scheme, — 

(1) in sub-naragranh (1) of nar-''' , ranh 10, for the words and figure* 
"quarter ending on the 31st March, 1963, shall be payable at the rate 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 1963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 985 


of fifteen naye paise”, the words and figures “quarter ending on the 
30th June, 1963, shall be payable at the rate of ten naye paise” shalL 
be substituted; 

(2) the proviso to sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 13 shall be omitted. 

[No. F. 101(141)-INS.I/63-ERL] 

S.O. 886. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (6) of section 
3 of the Emergency Risks (Factories) Insurance Act, 1962 (63 of 1962), the- 

Central Government hereby makes the following scheme to amend the Emer- 
gency Risks (Factories) Insurance Scheme published with the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic 
Affairs) No. S.O. 3946, dated the 26th December, 1962, namely: — 

1. (1) This scheme may be called the Emergency Risks (Factories) Insurance 
(Amendment) Scheme, 1963. 

(2) It shall come into force on the first day of April, 1963. 

2. In the Emergency Risks (Factories) Insurance Scheme, — 

(1) in sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 8, for the words and figures 

“quarter ending on the thirty-first March, 1063, shall be payable at 
the rate of twenty-five naye paise”, the words and figures “quarter 
ending on the 30th June, 1963, shall be payable at the rate of flfteen. 
naye paise” shall be substituted; 

(2) the proviso to sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 12 shall be omitted. 

[No. F. 101(142)-INS.I/63-ERI.J 

(Emergency Risks Insurance). 

New Delhi, the 21 st March, 1963 

S.O. 887. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) of 
section 15 of the Emergency Risks (Factories) Insurance Act, 1962, (63 of 1962) 
the Central Government hereby directs that notwithstanding anything contained 
in section 5, no factory producing khadi, and no village industry, as defined in, 
clauses (d) and (h) respectively of section 2 of the Khadi and Village Industries 
Commission Act, 1956 (61 of 1956), shall be required to insure its property under 
the provisions of the said Act or any scheme framed thereunder. 

[No. F. 101(102) -INS.I/63-ERI.J- 

S.O. 888. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 
3 of the Emergency Risks (Goods) Insurance Act. 1962 (62 of 1962), the Central 
Government hereby directs that the goods specified below shall, notwithstanding 
anything contained in section 3, ba deemed to be goods not insurable under the 
said Act, namely; — 

“ ‘Khadi ’ and the products of any 'village industry’ as defined in clauses 
(d) and (h) respectively of section 2 of the Khadi and Village 
Industries Commission Act, 1958 (91 of 1956) .” 

[No. F. 101 (102) -INS. I/63-ERI.J 
V. P. MITHAL, Under Secy 





Aa Account purstiadt to the Reserve B»ni of India Act, 1934, tor the week e tided the ijth day of Match 19S3. 

Issue Department 


Liabilities 

Rt. 

Ri. 

Assets 

Rs. 

Ra, 

Note* held in the Banking Departn eat . 

No’.ti in cir. -.nation .... 

16,4443,000 

*Mt»79,48 000 


Gold Can and BuUke t~~ 

(a) Held in India 
(A) Held outside India 

Foreign Securittea .... 

117.76.10.000 

103.08.43.000 


Total Notes issued 


22JM3.93.coo 



Total .... 

Rupee Coin ..... 
Government of India Rupee Securi- 
ties 

Internal Bills of Exchange and other 
commercial paper 


231,14, 33,0°° 

113.97.21,000 

1921,42,15,00 

Total Liabilitim 


225M3.93,«» 

Total Asset# 


225M3.93, 000 


Dated the ao h day of Match, 1963. T. C. Bh attach aryya. 

Governor 


[No. F. 3 (a)-BC /63 J 
A. BAK5I, Jt Secy 


988 THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : MARCH 30, 1963/CHAITRA 9 , 188 $ [Part n— 


(Department of Revenue) 

Income-tax 

New Delhi, the 21st March 1963 

S.O. 890. — It is hereby notified for general information that the institution 
mentioned below has been approved by the Council of Scientific and Industrial 
Research, the “presciibcd authority”, for the purposes of clause (ii) of sub- 
section (1) of section 35 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961): — 

Institution 

Cement Research' Institute of India, Bombay. 

[No. 12/F. No. 10/18/63-IT ( AI) ,] 
G. R. DESAI, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Revenae) 

Customs 

New Delhi, the 30 th March 1963 

S.O. 891. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
11 read with sub-section (3) of section 160 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), 
the Central Government, being satisfied that it will be conducive to the Interests 
of the general public so to do, hereby rescinds the Notifications of the Government 
of India in the late Finance Department (Central Revenues) No. 262-Customs, 
dated the 11th July, 1925 and No. 8-Customs, dated the 28th January, 1939. 

[No. 71 /F. No. 3/ 14/ 62-Cus.VIII. J 
S. VENKATESAN, Dy. Secy, 


BOMBAY CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE 

Central Excises 
Bombay, the 8 th March, 1963 

8.0: 892. — In exercise of the powers conferred upon me by Rule 233 read with 
Rule 143 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, I hereby issue the following instruc- 
tions to the tobacco bonded warehouse licensees in. this Collectorate; 

(i) No deliberate crushing of tobacco flakes or rawa into ‘Dust’ falling 
under item 4-1-5 (ii) of the Central Excise Tariff should be done while 
undertaking processing operations of non-duty paid tobacco stored 
in a bonded warehouse. The tariff category ‘Dust’ is eligible for 
lower assessment in cases only where such Dust is recovered inci- 
dentally during normal processing operations of tobacco in bonded 
warehouses. 

(ii) For the purposes of assessment of ‘Dust’ under Tariff item 4-1-5 (it) 

tobacco particles passing through a seive having not less than 25 
uniform apertures per linear inch and made of 27 s.w.g. wire having 
a diameter 0.0164" equivalent to 0-417 mm. (as required for 
IS Seive No. 60) shall be treated as ‘Dust’ (vide this Collectorate 
Trade Notice No. RUMP) Tobacco (1)/1963, dated the 7th January, 
1963). 

(iii) Percentage of Dust recoverable in the course of normal processing 

operations which may include sorting, separating, packing, etc., of 
different sizes of tobacco flakes should not exceed the maximum 
percentage fixed in Annexure *A’ appended to this Notification, 

(iv) A licensee who desir-s to separate Dust from flakes of tobacco should 

submit his application in the form prescribed in Appendix B’ 
appended to this Notification, to the proper officer for granting per- 
mission to such kind of processing operation. In this connection. It 




Sec. 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 1963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 


should be borne In mind that in cases where the estimated percen- 
tage of Dust recoverable in such processing is actually found to be 
a little exceeding the prescribed limit as in Appendix ‘A’ on Its com- 
pletion, the quantity of such Dust would not be eligible for clearance 
on payment of duty at lower rate. However, each such case will be 
decided on its merit by the Assistant Collector of Central Excise 
having functional jurisdiction over the warehouse. 

(v) Separation of Dust from flakes of tobacco in respect of each particular 
lot will be allowed only once by the proper officer. No request for 
permission for subsequent Dust-separation operation will be enter- 
tained. 


Appendix ‘A’ 

Statement showing the 'n vcimum percentage of tobacco dust recoverable in the normal processing 
operations of dijerent sixes of tobacco fl ikes, in the bonded tobacco warehouses in the Bombay Central 
Excise Collectorate. 


Description of tobacco put into processing 

Serial for the purpose of obtaining flakes of Maximum percentage Remarks 
j No. various sizes from Angad tobacco and of dust recoverable 
for mixing, sorting, separating ‘Jardi’ 
tobacco. 


1 


2 


3 


4 


I From Angad (i.e. unprocessed) to 5 ghari 



tobacco flakes ..... 

5 % 

2 

From' Angad to 10 ghari tobacco flakes 

7% 

3 

From’Angad to 15 glaarl tobacco flakes 

9% 

4 

From Angad to more than 15 ghari tobacco 



flakes 

10% 


5 Mixing sorting, separating, etc. of pro- 
cessed ‘Jardi’ tobacco for obtaining 
flakes, kandi, Dhus, etc. separately 


5 % 





Appendix ‘B’ 

Form of application for permission for separating Dust from various sizes of flakes of tobacco in the course of normal processing of tobacco in bonded 
vxrrehcusc {to be submitted in duplicate, 

(]) I/We L-5 No. . of . . desire to separate dust from flakes tobacco of . . . ghati 

(2) IJWe . . undertake to abide bj the conditions laid down in the Notification ... . , No. CER/ 196 dated the 

196 

Place : Signature of licensee or 

Date : his authorised Agent. 


Lot Description No. of packa- Quantity D.F W. No. TP2 / under Value Duty Particulars of Estimated % of Remarks 

No. ges in Kgs. which reware- previous proces- dust to be ob- 

housed/ware- sing if any and tamed on sepa- 

housed the % of dust ration of flakes 

obtained etc. 


123 4 5 6789 10 f II 



THE GAZETTE 


Sec. J(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH SO, 196J/CHAITRA 9, 1885 


991 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 2 3rd March 1963 

8.0. 893. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules further to 
amend the Textile Commissioner’s Organisation, Bombay (Recruitment to Class 
III Posts) Rules, 1958, namely: 

1. These Rules may be called the Textile Commissioner’s Organisation, Bombay 
(Recruitment to Class III Posts) Amendment Rules, 1963. 

2. In the Schedule to the Textile Commissioner Organisation, Bombay (Recruit- 
ment to Class III Posts)) Rules, 1958 against the post of Accountant 

(i) for the existing entry In Column 8 the following entry shall be substitut- 

ed namely: — 

“30 years. Relux able In the case of displaced persons and other special 
categories in accordance with the general orders issued by the Gov- 
ernment of India from time to time”. 

(ii) for the existing entry in column 9, the following entry shall be 

substituted namely:— 

“(a) A master’s degree in Economics or Commerce of a recognised 
University. 

(b) Study of Accountancy at some stage at the University or a certificate 
in Accountancy of a recognised Institution.” 

[F. No. 21(35)-Tex.B/62.] 

A. S. SETHI, Under Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 18 th March 1963 

S.O. 894. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 18G of the Indus- 
tries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby makes the following Order to amend the Ethyl Alcohol (Price 

Control) Older, 1961, namely:^ 

1. This order may be called the Ethyl Alcohol (Price Control) Amendment 

Order, 1963, 

2. In clause 3 of the Ethyl Alcohol (Price Control) Order, 1981, after item 

(b), the following item shall be inserted, namely: — 

(c) where alcohol is produced by the distilleries by the use of furnace 
oil as fuel in place of coal, a sum of 1.55 nP. per litre may be 

charged with respect to such alcohol in addition to the price 

specified in that Clause. 

[No. 34(9)/61/Chem. II.] 
C. BALASUBRAMANIAM, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of International Trade) 

Export Trade Control 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 30th March 1963 

S.O. 895. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Imports and 
Exports (Control) Act, 1947 (18 of 1947), the Central Government hereby makes 
the following Order further to amend the Exports (Control) Order, 1962, namely: — 

1. This Order may be called the Exports (Control) Amendment Order, 1963. 

2. In Clause 10 of the Exports (Control) Order, 1962, in sub-clauses (g) 

and (h), for the words "except Nepal, Tibet and Bhutan”, the words 
“except Nepal and Bhutan” snail be substituted. 

[No. E(C)0, 1962/AM(20).] 

MELA RAM BHARDWAJ, Under Secy. 



9 


THE GAZETTE OF INDL4 : MARCH 30, 1963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Part II- 


ORDER 

Import Trade Control 
New Delhi, the 50th March, 1963 

S.O. 896/IECA/3-4A/3/63. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 
4-A of the Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947 (18 of 1947) as in force in 
India, the Central Government hereby makes the following Order further to 
amend the Imports (Control) Order, 1965 namely: — 

1, This order may be called the Imports (Control) Second Amendment Order, 

1963. 

2. In the Table In paragraph 1 of Schedule III to the Imports (Control) 

Order, 1955, after item 10 and the entries relating thereto the follow- 
ing item and entries shall be inserted, namely: — 

“11. In respect of applications Fifty percent of the 

for import licences under the amount of fees mention- 

Export Promotion Scheme ed against items 1 to 

8.” 

[No. 3/03/1 
M. L. GUPTA, Under Secy. 


(Office of the Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 
(Central Licensing Area) 

ORDER 


New Delhi, the 22nd February 1963 

S.O. 897. — Whereas M/s. Surjit Automobiles, 26-A.R.P., Motia Khan, New 
Delhi, have not furnished any cause against Notice No. Genl.|233|AM-03|Pol|CLA. 
dated the 6th November, 1962, proposing to cancel the Import Licence No. E 
270113|61|EI|CCI|D|QL-n, dated the 7th August, 1962, valued at Rs. 500 for import 
of Garage Tools from General Area, granted to M/s. Surjit Automobiles, 26-A.R.P., 
Motia Khan, New Delhi, try the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 
Central Licensing Area, Janpath Barracks ‘B’, New Delhi, the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, in exercise of the powers con- 


[No. Genl.|233|AM-03|Pol|CLA.] 
RAM MURTI SHARMA, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


(Indian Standards Institution) 

New Delhi, the 19th March 1963 

S.O. 898. — In pursuance of sub-regulations (2) and (3) of regulation 3 of the 
Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations 1955, as amended 
in 1961 and 1962, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the Indian 
Standards, particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed, have 
been established during the period 17 February, to 15 March, 1963. 

i The Schedule 


SI. 

No. 


No. and Title of the 
Indian Standard 
established 


2 

IS : 361-1962 Specifica- 
tion for Normal Butyl 
Alcohol, Technical (Re- 
vised). 


No. and Title of the 
Indian Standard or 
Standards, if any, 
superseded by the 
new Indian Standards 

3 

IS : 361-1953 Specifica- 
tion for Bmyl Alcohol 
Normal, Industrial Sol- 
vent Grade, 


Brief Particulars 



This standard prescribes the re- 
quirements and the methods of 
test for normal butyl alcohol, 
technical, which is used as an 
industrial solvent and especially 
as a thinner and solvent for 
paints (Price Rs, 2 1 50). 




2 IS : 364-1962 Specifics- IS 1 364-1956 Specifics- This standard lays down the re- 
tion for Fanlignt Catch tion for Fanlight Catch. quirements regarding material. 


(Revised) 


IS : 658-1962 Code of Pr- 
actice for Magnesium 
Oxychloride (>rr posi- 
tion Floors (Revised). 


IS 1658-1956 Code of Pr- 
actice of Magnesium 
Oxychloride Composi- 
tion Floors Tentative). 


IS : 782-1962 Specifica- 
tion for Caulking Lead 
(Revised). 


IS : 1049-1963 Specifica- 
tion for Alcohol, Per- 
fumery Grade (Revised), 


IS : 1341-1962 Specifica- 
tion for Steel Butt Hing- 
es (Revised). 


IS .-782-1957 Specifica- 
tion f oi Caolking Lead. 


IS : 1049-1957 Specifica- 
tion for Alcohol, Per- 
fumery Grade. 


quirements regarding material, 
dimensions, manufacture and 
finish of fanligh catches com- 
monly used on ventilators in 
buildings (Trice Rs. 1 -50). 

This code covers the require- 
ments regarding material, 
laying, maintenance and tests 
for the following seven types of 
Magnesium oxychloride floors: 
(a) General purpose, (b) Heavy 
duty, (c) Non-spark static dis- 
charging, (d) Non-slip, (») Mos- 
aic or terrazzo, (/) Industrial 
granolithic, and (g) Base coat. 
(Price Rs. 4- 00). 

This specification covers caulkin® 
lead, caulking lead wool rop c 
and caulking lead yarn 
ropc suitable for use In water 
supply and sanitary installations 
(Price Rs. 150). 

This standard prescribes the re “ 
quirements and the methods of 
sampling and test for alcohol, 
perfumery grade, without the 
addition of denaturants (Price 
Rs. 2-50). 


IS : 1341-1959 Specifics- Thia standard lays down the re- 
tion of Cold Rolled quirements regarding material, 
Mild Steel Butt Hinges. dimensions, manufacture and 


7 IS :203s (Part IIIV1962 

Graphical Symbols Us- 
ed in Electrotechnology 
Part III Circuit Ele- 
ments and Variability. 

8 IS : 2078-1962 Method 

for Tensile Testing of 
Grey Cast Iron, 

9 IS : 2155-1962 Specifica- 

tion for Rivets for Gen- 
eral Purposes (Below 12 
mm Diameter). 


10 IS : 2177-1962 Method for 
Quantitative Chemical 
Analysis of Mixtures of 
Cellulose Triacetate and 
Secondary Cellulose 
Acetate Fibres. 


ix IS : 2184-1962 Tables for 
Volume of Round Tim- 
ber Logs. 


dimensions, manufacture and 
finish of cold-rolled mild iteel 
butt hinges (Price Rs. 2 ■ 00). 

This standard covers graphical 
symbol concerning circuit 
elements and variability (Price 
Rs. 1 ■ 50). 

This standard prescribes the me- 
thod for tensile testing of grey 
cast iron (Price Rs. 1-50). 

This standard prescribe* the re- 
quirements for mild steel and 
high tensile steel rivets, below 
12 mm In diameter, for general 
purposes (Price Rs. 2' 00). 

This standard prescribes a me- 
thod for the quantitative 
chemical analysis of mixtures 
in any textile form, such 
as fibre, yarn or fabric, of 
cellulose triacetate and second- 
ary cellulose acetate. (Price 
R*. I'5o). 

This standard furnishes tables for 
cubic contents of round timber 
logs of midgirths from 10 
cm to 260 cm in steps of 
2cm (Price Rs. 10 00). 



12 IS : 2188-1962 Methods 
of Test for Paper for 
Electrical Purposes. 


13 IS : 2191-1962 Specifica- 
tion for Wooden Flush 
Door Shutters (Cellu- 
lar and Hollow Core 
Type). 


14 IS : 2193-1962 Specifica- 
tion for Prestressed 
Concrete Street Light- 
ing Columns. 


15 IS : 2196-1962 Specifica- 

tion for Linen Sewing 
Thread for Aeronautical 
Purposes. 

16 IS : 2198-1962 Specifica- 

tion for Flax Webbing 
for Aircraft Safety Belts 
and Harnesses. 


17 IS : 2202-1962 Specifica- 
tion for Wooden Flush 
Door Shutters (Solid 
Core Type). 


18 IS : 2203-1962 Specifica- 
tion for Wooden cross 
Arms. 


19 IS : 2212-1962 Code of 
Practice for Brickwork. 


20 IS : 2213-1962 Methods 

of Sampling of Thermo- 
setting Moulding 

Materials. 

21 IS : 2219-1962 Feeds for 

Machine Tools. 


22 IS : 2221-1962 Methods 
of Test for Aminoplast- 
ic Moulding Materials. 


This standard lays down the me- 
thods of sampling and test for 
paper for electrical purposes 
(Price Rs. 4 '50). 

This standard lays down require- 
ments regarding material, grad- 
es, types, sizes, construction, 
finish and tests of cellular 
and hollow core wooden 
Flush door shutters (Price Rs. 
2' 50). 

This standard covets prestressed 
concrete columns suitable for 
use in street lighting. It also 
covers prestressed concrete 
street lighting column# where 
untensioned longitudinal rein- 
forcement is used to act in 
conjunction with tensioned steel 
under load (Price Rs. 3 00). 

This specification prescribes the 
constructional details *od other 
particulars of linen icwing 
thread for aeronautical »nrpo«e» 
(Price Rs. 2 ’oo.) 

This specification proscribes 
constructional details and other 
particulars of flax webbing for 
aircraft safety belts and harnes- 
ses (Price Rs. 2*50) 

This standard lays down require n- 
ments regarding material, grad- 
es, types, sizes, construction, 
finish and tosts -of aolld core 
wooden flush door shutters. 
(Price Rs. 3 ‘oo"). 

This standard specifies tho general 
requirements of wooden cross 
arms for telephone and electric 
poles (Price Rs 3*ool 

This standard covers the construc- 
tion of brick masonry in genera 
and the erection of brick walls 
in particular (Pricn Rs. 7-00). 

This standard prescribes the me- 
thods of sampling of thermoset- 
ting moulding materials. 
(Price Rs. 1 *50). 

This standard specifics tho feeds 
and tolerances on feeds for ma- 
chine tools (Prict Re. i r oo) 

This standard prescribe# the 
methods of test for aminoplastic 
moulding materials. Jr prescri- 
bes the methods for determining 
apparent powder density, den- 
sity of moulding and bulk 
factor, mould shrinkage, water 



-Sec B(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MARCH 30, 1963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 


995 


I 


2 


3 


4 


23 IS 1 2223-1962 Dimen- 
sions of Flange Mount- 
ed AC Induction Mot- 
ors 


24 IS : 2230-1962 Specifica- 
tion for Dye, Methylene 
Blue, for Ink Industry. 


25 IS 2231-1962 Method of 
Grading Hand-made 
Wool Carpets. 


26 IS • 2232-1962 Specifica- 
tion for Slotted and 
Castle Nuts 


27 IS • 2236-1962 Specifica- 
tion for Prawns (Shrimp) 
Canned in Brine. 


28 IS 2240-1962 Specifica- 

tion for Vegitable Tan- 
ned Leather Belting for 
Power Transmission. 

29 IS 2242-1962 Specifica- 

tion for ICE Chambers 
for40-and 50-Litre Milk 
Cane 


30 IS . 2245-1962 Methods 
of Sampling Quartzite. 


absorption, boiling water absor- 
ption, degree of cure, tensile 
strength , impact strength, pl- 
astic yield, cross- breaking 
strength, electric sterngth at 
90*C, surface resistivity, vol- 
ume resistivity, and resistance- 
to tracking (Price Rs 5 00). 

This standard covers the dimen- 
sional requirements for hori- 
zontal shaft flange mounted 
screen protected and/or drip- 
proof or totally enclosed fan 
cooled AC squirrel cage indus- 
trial motors of frame sizes from 
90 mm to 280 mm intended for 
general purpose applications 
(Price Rs 3 00) 

This standard prescribes the re- 
quirements and the methods of 
test for dye, methylene blue, for 
use in the manufacture of writ- 
ing mks and carbon papers 
(Price Rs 3 ■ 00). 

This standard prescribes a method 
of grading hand made wool car- 
pets (Price Rs 4 00) 


This standard prescribes require- 
ments of Precision, Turned and 
Black grades of slotted nut* 
(4 to 39 mm) and castle nuts 
(12 to 39 mm) with ISO metric 
threads (Price Rs t 50). 

This standard prescribes the re- 
quirements and the methods of 
test for prawns (shrimp) canned 
in brine (Price Rs 2 50). 

This specification covers the re- 
quirements for Vegetable tan- 
ned leather belting for power 
transmission (Price Rs. 3-00). 

This standard prescribes the con- 
structional details and the 
dimensional rquirements for 
ice chambers for 40-and 50-litre 
milk cans conforming to IS. 
1373-1962 Specification for 
Tinned Mild Steel Milk Cans. 
( Revised) «r IS : 1825-1961 
Specification for Aluminium 
Milk Cans (Price Rs. 1 ■ 50). 

This standard lays down the 
procedure to be followed in col- 
lecting and preparing samples 
from a lot rn order to deter- 
mine ore sizes, moisture con- 
tent and the chemical com- 
position of the quartzite in the 
lot. It details tnc procedures 


IS : 433-1953 Specifica- 
tion for Handloom Car 
pets (Mirzapur) for 
Export. 


996 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 80, 1963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Part II- 


(i) 




(3) 


(4) 


31 IS : 2252-1962 Specifica- 
tion for Diacetone Al- 
cohol, 


32 IS : 2256-1962 Specifica- 
tion for Ammonium 
Sulphate Nitrate. 


for sampling of the ores from 
stock piles, loaded rail wagons, 
conveyors and ship’s holds. 

( . 

This standard also includes a me- 
thod for reporting the quality 
of the bulk of the quartzite 
sampled (Price Rs. 3 • 50). 

This standard prescribes the re- 
quirements and the methods of 
test for diacetone alcohol. 
(Price Rs. 2-50). 

This standard prescribes the re- 
quirements and the methods of 
test for ammonium sulphate 
nitrate. The material is used 
as a fertilizer and is also known 
as ammonium sulpho-nitrate. 
(Price Rs. 2-50). 


Copies of these Indian Standards are available, for sale, with the Indian Stan- 
dards Institution, ‘Manak Bhavan’ 9 Mathura Road, New Delhi- 1 , and also at its 
Branch Offices at (i) 232 Dr. Dadabhoy Naoroji Road, Fort, Bombay- 1 , (ii) 
Third Floor, II Sooterkin Street, Calcutta- 13 , (iii) 2/21 First Line Beach, 
Madras- 1 , and (iv) 14 / 09 , Civil Lines, Kanpur. 

[No. MD/ 13 : 2 .] 

S. 0 . 899. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-regulations (2) and (3) of regulation 
3 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, as amended in 1961 
and 1962, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies the issue of errata slips particulars o( 
which arc given in column (4) of the Schedule hereto annexed, in respect of the Indian Standards 
specified in column (2) of the said Schedule, 

The Schedule 


SI. No. and Title of Indian No. and date of Gazette Particulars of Errata Slip Issued 
No. Standard Notification in 

which establishment 
of Indian Standard 
was notified 


(1) (2) 


(3) 


(4) 


1 18:1528-1962 Methods of S. O. 3593 

Sampling and Physical dated t December, 
Tests for Refractory 1962. 

Materials 


(0 Page 6, sub-clause 20'i, line 5 
please read ‘may’ for ‘shall’ 

(it) Page 6, sub-clause 2- ft, line 3 
please read ‘tests’ for ‘test’ 

(iii) Page 8, informal table under sub- 
clause 2 ■ 3 ‘2 - 2, column ‘Cha- 
racteristic’ Line 3- — -Please read 

‘Refractoriness — under-load’ foi 

‘Refractoriness-under’ Line 4 — - 

please read ‘Panel Spalling Resis- 
tance’ for ‘load Panel Spalling 
Line 5 — please delete the wore 
‘Resistance! 



Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 90, 1963'/CHATTRA 9, 1885 


997 


(I) U) 


(3) 


(4) 


(to) Page lo, sub-sub-clautc 2 -4- 1-4, 
lines 2 and 3 

Please read 'if the two tests results are 
identical and satisfy, for ‘if the 
average of the two tests results 
satisfies’ 

(c) Page 10, sub-sub-clause 2'4 2'3, 
line 2 please read ‘the identical re- 
sults obtained in the two tests’ for 
‘the average of the two test results’, 

(ui) Page 14, sub-clause 4 ’l'X, fine- 
4, please read ‘corundum’ for 
‘corrundum’ 

(vit) Page 26, Table V, last line of 
fourth column heading under 
‘FIRECLAY REFRACTORIES' 
please read *15:1751-1961’ for ‘IS 
1751-1960* 

(viii) Page 26, Table V, last line of 

entry under column 8 please read 

*4 hours' for *5 hours' 


2 15:1822-1961 Specifica- S.O. 2442 

tion for Motor Starters dated 14 October, 
of Voltage Up to 650 1961 

Volts 


(t) Page 20, sub-sub-clause 8 ■ 3 ■ 5 ■ 1 
line 2, please read ‘6 i$ r* for 
•5 I 4 - 1' 


3 13:2128-1962 Specifica- S.O. 3593 

tion for Parathion, Te- dated t December 
chnical. 1962 


(0 Page 7, Sub-elauso B-2-8.1, line 
12 please read ‘in 4-drop portions' 
for ‘4-drop portions’ 


(»») Page 7, clauso B-4 ■ 1 please read 
‘oo-Diethyl a-ibpnitio-phenyl) 

phosphorotWoate (patathiotO content, 
percent by weight’ 


for “oo-Diethyl o-(4'H ttrophcnol) Pho- 
spborothionate (parathion) con- 
tent, percent by weight’ 


4 IS I2173-I962 Specifica- S.O. 3593 

tion tor Handloom dated 1 December 
Melton (Shoddy) Cloth 1962 


(i) Page 2, Table I, second entry under 
column heading 'weight per m* in g' 
please read '540’ for ‘640’ 


Copies of these Errata slips are available, free of cost, with the Indian Standards Institution Manalt 
Bhavan, 9 Mathura Road, New Delhi- 1, and also at its Branch Offices at (i) 232 Dr. Dadabhoy 
Naoroji Road, Bombay-i, (it) Third Floor, 11 Sooterkin Street, Calcuna-13, ( [iti ) 2/21 First Line 
Beach, Madras-i, and (tv) 14/69 Civil Lines, Kanpur. 


[No. MD/l3:6] 


New Delhi, the 20th March 1903 

8 , 0 . 900 . — In pursuance of regulation 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification 
Marks) Regulations, 1955, as amended in 1961 and 1962, the Indian Standards Institution hereby 
notifies that amendments to the Indian Standards, given in the Schedule hereto annexed, have been 
issued under the powers conferred by sub-regulation (l) of regulation 3 of the said regulations. 





'998 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 196S/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Past II- 


The Schedulb 


SI. 

No.] 


No. and title of the No. and No. and Brief particulars of the Amend- 
Indian date date ment 

Standard amended of of the 
Gazette 

Notification Amendment 
in 

which 

the establish- 
ment 
of the 
Indian 
Standard 
was 

notified 


Date from 
which 
the 

Amend- 
ment 
shall have 
effect 


CD (2) 


(3) (4) 


(5) 


( 6 ) 


IS : 101-1961 Me- S. 0 . 553 No. 1 

thods of Test for dated 2 December 

Ready Mixed Paints March, 1962. 

and Enamels 1963. 

( Revised ). 


(*) Contents, SI. No, 8. — sub- 1 April, 
stitute ‘SpreadingCapacity’ 1963. 
for ‘Spreading Rate’, 

(ii) Contents, SI. No. 20 — sub- 
stitute ‘Resistance to 
Petroleum Hydrocarbon 
Solvent’ for ‘Resistance to 
Special Boiling Point 
(SBP) Spirit’. 

(; tit ) Contents, SI. No. 30— In- 
troduce the following as 
new item 30, after serial 
number 29 and renumber 
the subsequent serial num- 
bers accordingly : 

‘30 Analysis of Pigments’. 

(tv) Clause 0-3 — Introduce the 
following as new clause 
O' 3 after clause 0-2 and 
renumber the subsequent 
clauses of the Foreword ac- 
cordingly: 

‘0 3 In order to facilitate 
proper referencing of the 
methods of test in this 
Revision, a statement show- 
ing the’eorre sponding me- 
thods of test in IS: 101-1950 
which is no longer in force 
now, and the new methods 
added in the Revision are 
given on page 3’. 

(v) The existing clause 2 ■ x 
has been substituted by a 
new one . 

(vi) Item 8, Heading— Substi- 
tute ‘SPREADING CAP- 
ACITY’ for ‘SPREAD- 
ING RATE’. 

(till) Clause 8 ■ x. Line 6 — Subs- 
titute ‘spreading capacity’ 
for spreading rate’. 




SBC. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 196S/CHAITRA 9, 1885 


999 


(r) CO (3) (4) (5) (6) 


IS 1310 (Part II)- 

S.R.O. 

No. 1 

1954 Methods of 

846 

March, 

Sampling and Test 

dated 

1963 

for Lubricants, 

14 April 


Part II. 

1956 



IS : 397-1952 Me- 

S.R.O. 

No. 1 

thod for Statistical 

658 

February 

Quality Control 

dated 26 

1963 

during Production 

March, 

by the Use of Con- 
trol Chart (Tentati- 
ve), 

1955 



(rim) Clause 12-2 — Substitute 
the following for the exist- 
ing clause : 

T2 2 There shall be no 
undue change of colour’. 

( ix ) Item 20, Heading — Substi- 
tute ‘RESISTANCE TO 
PETROLEUM HYDRO- 
CARBON SOLVENT’ 
for 'RESISTANCE TO 
SPECIAL BOILING 
POINT (SBP) SPIRIT’. 

(x) A new item 30 has been 
introduced after #tem 
29 and the subsequent items 
and clauses have been 
renumbered accordingly. 

(i) The existing method of r April, 

test has been substituted 1963. j 
by a new one. 

(ii) Delete the following me- 
thods from the standard : 

L 126 Determination of 

Water Content, 

L:27 Determination of 
Flash Point (ABEL). 

(t) Page 7. section 4, second 1 April, 
column, line 8 — Substi- 19 3. 
tute ‘joule’ for ‘Btu’. 

(ii) Page 8, second column — 

Line 2 from the 
bottom — Substitute ‘50 kg’ 
for ‘50 lb.’ 

Line a from the bottom — 

Substitute ‘75 kg’ for ‘75 
lb.’ 

Line 5 from the bottom — 

Substitute ‘75 kg’ for ‘75 
lb.’ 

Substitute ‘jo kg’ for ‘50 
lb.’ 

(Hi) Page 9, second column — 

Line 31 — Substitute ‘sq- 
uare metre’ for ‘square yd’. 

Line 32 — Substitute’ me- 
tre’ for ‘foot’. 

Substitute ‘metres’ for ‘feet’ 

(iv) Page 15, first column, line 
4— Substitute ‘5 or 10 rul- 
ings to the centimetre’ 
for ‘8 or 10 rulings to the 
inch (sometimes 20)’. 



IOOO 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ! MARCH 80, 196S/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Pa*t II- 


I 2 


3 4 5 


6 


(v) Page 19, first column, lines 
1} and 16 — Substitute ‘10 
divisions to the centimetre’ 
for '8 or 10 divisions to the 
inch’. 

( yi ) Page 22, first column — 

Line 16 — Substitute ‘40 

metres’ for *40 yards’. 
Lines 25, 26, 31 and 32 — 
Substitute ‘short pieces of 
specified length’ for ‘two 
yard pieces’. 

(mV) Page 23, Fig. 7 — 

(i) Substitute 'Characteristic : 
Weight of short pieces of 
specified length’ for 'Ch- 
aracteristic : Weight of 
2-yard pieces’ 

(it) Substitute ‘Grams’ for 
‘Ounces’. 

(Hi) Substitute 'Weight of 
Short Pieces of Specified 
Length of Finisher Lap ’/or 
‘Weight of Two-yard Pie- 
ces of Finisher Lap’. 

(iv) Substitute ‘g’ for ‘oz\ 

(wit) Page 24, Fig. 8 — 

(i) Substitute ‘Charac- 
teristic : Weight of short 
pieces of specified length’ 
for ‘characteristic weight of 
2-yaid pieces’. 

(it) Substitute ‘Grams ’for 
‘Ounces’. 

(ix) Page 25, Fig. 9 — Substitute 
‘NORMAL DAILY 

OUTPUT 23000 kg’ for 
‘NORMAL DAILY 

OUTPUT 30,000 lb’. 

(x) Page 26, first Column — 

Line 9 from the bottom — 
Substitute ‘15 ■ 25 kg’ 

for ‘30 lb ±8 oz’. 

Line II from the bottom — 
Substitute ‘15 kg and tol- 
erance limits of ±0-25 
kg ’for ‘30 lb. and tolerance 
limits of ± 8 oz’. 

( xi ) Page 27, second column — 

Line 1 from the bottom — 
Substitute ‘metres’ for 
‘yards’. 


Sec. S(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH SO, 19GS/CHAITRA 9, 1885 


IOOI 


2 3 4 


5 


6 


Line 23 from the bottom — 
Substitute ‘litres’ for 
‘gallons’. 

Line 24 from the bottom — 
Substitute ‘metres or 
kilograms’ for ‘yards or 
pounds’. 

Substitute ‘tonnes’ for 
'tons’. 

(xii) Page 29, first column — 

Line 1. — Substitute ‘ton- 
nes’ for ‘tons’. 

Line 25 from the bottom — 
Substitute ‘metres’ for 
'yards’. 

Line 29 from the bottom — 
Substitute ‘metre’ for 
‘foot or yard’. 

Line 38 from the bottom — 
Substitute 'metres’ for 
‘yards’. 



Page 29, second column 
able III— 


> 


4 


IS : 563-1961 Speci- 
fication for DDT, 
Technical ( Revised) 


S.O. 416 No. 1 
dated * March 
10 Feb-" 1963 
ruary, 

1962 


(0 Subst tute ‘Produc- 
tion in Metres’ for ‘Pro- 
duction in Yards’. 

(it) Substitute ‘Imperfect 
Metres’ for ‘Imperfect 
Yards’. 

(i) The existing clause 5-1 
has been substituted by a 
new one. 


(it) Sub-clause 5' 21 — In- 
troduce the following new 
clause after 5 ■ 2 : 


"5 -2- 1 When hessian 

bags are used for packing 
this material, the pictorial 
marking for ‘USE NO 
HOOKS' DO NOT 
PUNCTURE’ as speci- 
fied in IS : 1286-1958 Pic- 
torial Markings for Handl- 
ing Instructions for Non- 
Dangerous Goods, shall 
be stencilled on the bags’, 

(Hi) The existing Bub-clause 
5-2- 1 has been substitut- 
ed by a new sub-clause 
S‘2‘2. 

(iv) Clause B-i ■ 2, Line 5 — ■ 
Substitute ‘27° ±0-5* C’ 
for ‘25 ■ o* ± 0-5°C’. 


April 

1963. 



1002 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 1963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Part II- 


I 


2 


3 4 


5 


6 


5 IS: 633-195 6 Sped S.R.O. No." 1 

fication for DDT 2029 March 

Emulsifiablc Con- dated 22 1963 

centrates. June 1957 


(t) The existing sub-clause 3 2. 1 April, 
1 has been substituted by a 1963. 

new one. 

(m) Sub-clause 3 -2 -2 — Delete 
the existing sub-clause and 
renumber sub-clauses 
‘3 -2 ‘3 to 3 -2 '6* to read as 
‘3-2-2 to 3-2-5’. 

(in) Sub-clause 3-2-6 (now re- 
numbered as 3 • 2 ■ 5), line 
3 — Substitute ‘3-2-1 to 
3 ■ 2 ■ 4’ for ‘3 ■ 2 ■ r to 3 ■ 2 ■ 5’, 


(iv) The existing Appendix B 
has been deleted. 


6 


7 


8 


9 


xo 


II 


12 


IS : 1050-1957 Spe- S.R.O. 

No. 

I 

cification for Lime 2423 

March 


Sulphur Solution. dated 27 

1963 


July 1957 

IS : 1055-1957 Speci- S.R.O. 

No. 

I 

fication for Nicotine 2328 

March 


Sulphate Solution. dated 20 

1963 


July 1957 

IS : 1083-1957 Speci- S.R.O. 
fication for White oil 3476 

No. 

I 

February 

Light, Technical dated 2 

1963 


November 

1957- 


IS : 1306-1958 Speci- S.O. 357 No. i 
fication for Aldrln dated 13 March 19, 
Technical. Feb, i960. 1963. 

IS ; 1308-1958 Speci- S.O. 74 No. 2 
fication for Aldrin dated 9 March 
Dusting Powders. January 1963 
i960. | 


IS : 1309-1958 Speci- S.O. 2401 No. 2 
fication forEndrin, dated 31 February 
Technical. October 1963. 

1959. 

IS : 1402-1959 Speci- S.O. 357 No. 1 
fication for Braided dated 13 February 
Cotton Cord for February 1963. 
Aeronautical Pur- i960, 
poses. 


The existing clause 6 ■ 1 has been 
substituted by a new one. 

1 April, 
1963. 

The existin g clause 6 • X has been 
substituted by a new one. 

t April, 
1963. t 

(i) The existing clause 0 • 5 has 
been substituted by a new 
one.. 

r Aptil, 

1963. 

(it) The existing sub-clause 
0-5-1 has been substitut- 
ed by a new one. 


(in) The existing clause 4-1 
has been substituted by a 
new one. 


(iv) The existing Table 1 has 
been substituted by a new 
one. 


The existing clause 6 - 1 has been 
substitued by a new one. 

1 April, 
IQ 

CO The existing clause 5-1 has 
been substituted by a new 
one. 

(ii) A new sub-caluse 5-2-2 
has been introduced after 
5-2-1 and the, existing 
sub-clause 5-2-2 has 

been renumbered as 5 ■ 2 ■ 3 . 

1 [ Aprl,i 
196 

t 

The existing clause 5 • 1 has been 
substituted by a new one. 

1 April, 

1(63. 

(i) The existing clause 5-3 
has been substituted by a 

t ' April, 
1(6?. 


new one. 

(it) Table I, last Column — sub- 
stitute ‘15’ for ‘9’ ft 



Sec. 3(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 196S/CHAITRA 9, 1885 1003 



13 IS ‘ 1450-1959 Sped- S.O. 1988 No, 1 (i) The existing clause 0-3 1 April, 

fication for Hand- dated 13 January has been substituted by a 1963- 

loom Cotton Floor August 1963 . new one, 

Durries. i 960 . 

(»'i) Table II, against Variety 

No. 3 — 

Fifth Column — Substitute 
‘9i5(or 27 )’ for '850 (or 2 ;)’ 

Seventh Column — Substi- 
tute ‘318 (or 700 )' for 
‘294 (or 650 )’. 


Copies of these Amendment Slips are available, free of cost, with the Indian Standards 
Institution, Manak Bhflvun, 9 , Mathura Road, New Delhi-i, and also at its Branch Offices at 
(i) 232 , Dr. Dadabhoy Naoroji Road,Bombay-i,(il) Third Floor, ii, Sooterkin Street. Calcutta -13 
ill) 2 / 21 , First Line Beach, Madras-i, and (iv) 14 / 69 , Civil Lines, KaDpur. 

[No. MD/j 3 :j] 
D.V. KARMARKAR, 

Head of the Certification Marks Divrr 

MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 20 th March 1863 

S.O. 901— Whereas, Mother Kelly Mary Ann, Nursing Superintendent, Gandhi 
Memorial Hospital Rewa and Miss Lily Francis, Midwife, Health Centre M.T. 
Hospital-Compound, Indore City have been elected by the Mahakoshal Nurse* 
Council, Indore, to be members of the Indian Nursing Council under clauses (a) 
and (g) respectively of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Indian Nursing Council 
Act, 1947 (48 of 1947); 

And, whereas, Kumari G, K. Pavri, Matron, Irwin Group of Hospital, Jamnagar 
has been elected by the Gujarat Nursing Council to be a member of the Indian 
Nursing Council under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Indian 
Nursing Council Act. 1947 (48 of 1947); 

And, whereas, Kumari Tahira Hashim Ali Khan, B.Sc. (Hons,), Special Officer, 
Nursing College, Hyderabad, has been elected by the Andhra and Hyderabad 
Nurses r anfl Midwives Councils to be a member of the Indian Nursing Council 
under clause (a) of aub-section (1) of section 3 of the Indian Nursing Council Act, 
1947 (48 of 1047); 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provision of sub-section (1) of section 3 
of the said Act, the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendments in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Health No. F. 27-57/57-MII(B), dated the 1st December, 1958, namely: — 

In the said notification, 

(i) under the heading “Elected under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of 

section 3”, after the existing entries, the following entries shall be- 
inserted, namely: — 

“9. Mother Kelly Mary Ann, Nursing Superintendent, Gandhi Memorial 

Hospital, Rewa, Madhya Pradesh, 

10. Kumari G. K. Pavri, Matron. Irwin Group of Hospital, Jamnagar, 

Gujarat. 

11. Kumari Tahira Hashim — Ali -Khan, B.Sc. (Hons.), Special Offlcer,. 

Nursing College, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh.” 

(ii) under the heading “Elected under clause (g) of sub-section (1) of 

section 3", alter the existing entries, the following entry shall be- 
inserted, namely: — 

“3. Miss Lily Francis, Midwife, Health Centre M.T. Hospital-Compound,. 

Indore City, Madhya Pradesh.” 

[No. F. 27-28/62-MII.J 
R. MTTRTHI, Under Secy- 



THE GAZETTE OS' INDIA : MARCH 30, 1963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Part IK 


New Delhi, the 21st March 1963 

S.O. 902. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (2) of rule 11, 
clause (B) of sub-rule (2) of rule 14 and sub-rule (1) of rule 23 of the Central 
Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, the President 
hereby makes the following further amendments in the notification of the 
Government of India m the Ministry of Health No. SRO 619, dated the 28th 
February, 1957, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said notification in Part I— General Central Service 
Class II, the column 5 relating to "Appellate Authority" shall be omitted, 

[No. F. 16-96/62-L.S.G-] 
A. K. DAR, Under Secy, 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS 
(Department of Transport) 

New Delhi, the 19 th March 1963 

S.O. 903. — In pursuance of Sub-rule (2) of rule 11, clause (b) of sub-rule (2) 
of rule 14 and sub-rule (1) of rule 23 of the Central Civil Services (Classification, 
Control and Appeal) Rules, 1967, the President hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of 
Transport No. S.R.O. 610, dated the 28th February, 1957, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said notification, in Part III for the heading “Regional 
Tourist Offices’”, the following heading shall be substituted, namely: — 

“Regional Tourist Offices, including Tourist Bungalows/Restaurants managed 
by the Department of Tourism”. 


[No. 4-TPL.II(8)/01/Jl 
G. K. DOGRA, Under Secy. 


(Department of Transport) 

(Transport Wing) 

Forts 

New Delhi, the 18 th March 1903 

S.O. 904. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 7 of the Bombay 
Port Trust Act, 1879 (Bombay Act 6 of 1879), the Central Government hereby 
appoints the following persons to be members of the Board of Trustees of the 
Port of Bombay for two years with effect from 1st April, 1903: — 

(1) Shri S. R. Kulkarni 

(2) Shri H. N. Trivedi 

Representatives of Labour. 

[No. 8-PG(l)/63.J 
HARBANS SINGH, Under Secy, 


(Departments of Communications and Civil Aviation) 

(P. & T. Board) 

New Delhi, the 16 th March 1963 

S.O, 905.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (2) of rule 11, 
«lause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 14 and sub-rule (1) of rule 23 of the Central 
Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, the President 



Sea S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH JO, 196J/CHAITRA 9, 1885 


hereby makes the following further amendments in the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the lati Ministry of Communications (Posts and Telegraphs) 
No. S.R.O, 620, dated the 28th February 1957, namely; — 

In the schedule to the said notification — 

!■ in Part II— General Central Service, Class III, under the heading ‘Tost 

Offices” — 


(a) against the entry ‘Tostmaster on Time-Scale; Town Inspector of Post 
Offices; Ministerial staff in clerical grades; Overseer; Overseer Postmen; Sorting 

g eader Postmen; Head Postmen; Departmental Branch Postmaster; Despatch 
ider” in column 1, 

(1) the following entries in columns 3, 4 and 5 respectively shall be 
deleted, namely; — 


3 4 3 

“Presidency Postmaster ; ‘‘(iv) ta “Director of Postal 

Postmaster in the (vli)’’ Services”, 

gride ol Presidency Postmasters.” 

(ii) against the entry "Deputy Presidency, Postmaster; Deputy Postmaster 
in the Postmasters’ Service, Class II” in column 3, lor the existing 
entry “(i) to (iii)” in column 4, the entry "Air 1 2 3 4 shall be substituted! 

(b) against the entry "All other Posts” in column 1, the entry “Deputy Post-* 
master in Postmasters’ Service, Class II;” in column 5 shall be deleted. 

II. In Part III — General Central Service, Class IV, under the heading “Post 
Offices”, against the entry “All Posts” in column 1, the entry “Deputy Postmaster 
in Postmasters’ Service, Class II;” in column 5 shall be deleted. 

[No. 44/35/62-Disc.] 
HIT PARKASH, 
Assistant Director General, 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 
(Railway Board) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 26 th March 1963 

8.0. 906- — In exercise of the powers conferred bv sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 40 of the Defence of India Act, 1962 (51 of 1962), and of all of the powers 
enabling it in this behalf, the Central Government hereby directs that the powers 
exercisable by it under sub-rule (I) of rule 134A of the Defence of India Rules, 
1962, shall also be exercisable by the officers mentioned in column (2) of tha 
Schedule hereto annexed in respect of the Public premises specified in the 
corresponding entry in column (3) thereof. 

Schedule 


SI. Na Officers authorised Public premises 

(1) (2) (3) 


1. Senior Deputy General Manager, 

Central Railway. 

2. Senior Deputy General Manager, 

Eastern Railway. 

3. Senior Deputy General Manager, 

Northern Railway. 

4. Chief Engineer, North-Eastern 

Railway. 

9 . Chief Engineer, North-East Fron- 
tier Railway. 

0. Senior Deputy General Manager, 
Southern Railway. 


Premises under the control of tha 
Central Railway. 

Premises under the control of the 
Eastern Railway. 

Premises under the control of tha 
Northern Railway. 

Premises under the control of tha 
North-Eastern Railway. 

Premises under the control of tha 
North East Frontier Railway. 

Premises under the control of the 
Southern Railway. 



1006 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 1963/CHAITRA 9, 1883 [Part II- 


SL No. Officers authorised 

( 1 ) ( 2 ) 


Public premises 


7. Senior Deputy General Manager, 

South Eastern Railway. 

8. Senior Deputy General Manager, 

Western Railway, 

9. General Manager, Chittaranjan 

Locomotive Works, Chitta- 
ranjan. 

10. General Manager, Diesel Loco- 

motive Works, Varanasi. 

11. General Manager, Integral 
Coach Factory, Perambur, 

Madras. 

12. Chief Engineer, D.B.K Railway 

Project, Waltalr. 


Premises under the control of the 
South Eastern Railway. 

Premises under the control of the 
Western Railway. 

Premises under the control of 
the Chittaranjan Locomotive 
Works. 

Premises under the control of the 
Diesel Locomotive Woiks. 

Premises under the control of the 
Integral Coach Factory. 

Premises under the control of the 
Dandakaranya Bolangir Kiri- 
buru Railway Project. 


[No. 62/W2/LA/1B.] 
P. C. MATHEW. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH & CULTURAL AFFAIRS 

Archaeology. 

New Delhi, the 19th March 1963 

S.O. 907. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that the ancient 
monument specified in the Schedule attached hereto is of national importance. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
Section 4 of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 
1958 (24 of 1958), the Central Government hereby giv s notice of Its intention to 
declare the said ancient monument to be of national importance. 

Any objection made within two months after the issue of this notification by 
anv person interest d in the said ancient monument will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


Sec. fl(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 50, 1968/CHArTRA 9, 1885 


1009 


New Delhi, the 20tli March, 1963 

S.O. 908. — Whereas the Central Government Is of opinion that the ancient 
monument specified in the Schedule attached hereto is of national importance. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
Section 4 of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 
1958 (24 of 1958), the Central Government hereby gives notice of its intention 
to declare the said ancient monument to be of national importance. 

Any objection made within two months after the issue of this notification by 
anv person interested in the said ancient monument Will be considered by the 
Central Government. 




Bio. J(ll)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH *0, 196S/CHATTRA 9. I8M 


I0IJ 


MINISTRY OF WORKS. HOUSING AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of W. It H.) 

New Delhi, the 21 st March 1963 

S.O. 909. — In pursuance of rule 5A of the Public Premises (Eviction of Un- 
authorised Occupants) Rules. 1958, the Central Government hereby authorise the 
Gazetted Officer mentioned in column 1 of the Table below to hear applications 
for transfer of any proceedings pending before an Estate Officer and pertaining 
to public premises specified in column 2 of the said Table. 

Table 


Gazetted Officer 

i 

Public Premise* 

a 

ShriJ. A. DWE 

Premises belonging to or under the administrative 
control ot the Mu licipal Corporation, Delhi. 

Deputy C >mmi«»ioner, 

Municipal Corporat on, De ! hi. 


[No. 32/5/63-EE.] 


New Delhi, the 23 rd March 1963 

8.0. 911.' — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Public 
Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1958 (32 of 1953), the Central 
Government hereby makes the following amendment to the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply No. S.O. 890 
dated the 10th April, 1961 namely: — 


In the table below the said notification, for the entries under columns 1 & 2 
again it Serial No. 27, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 


1 

3 

Director of Audit & Account!, Pouts & 
Telegr phs, Delhi. 

premises under the control of the Accountant 
General, Posta & Telegnphs, Simla, 
situated in Delhi & New Delh'. 


[No. 24/1 / C2-EEII/EE.] 
S. L. VASUDEVA, Under Secy. 


(Department «f Rehabilitation) 

(Offloe of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 1 9th March 1963 

8.0. 911. — In the order Issued In pursuance of Rule 11-D(D)(A) of the 
Evacuee Interest (Separation) Rules, 1951 vide notification No. 5(24)/59.Prop.II- 
Comp, dated the 5th Ju'v, 1962, for the words and figures ‘31st December, 1962’ 
the words and figures ‘30 June, 1963’ may be substituted. 

[No. F. 5(24) /59-Prop.II-Comp.] 

N. P. DUBE, Jt. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR It EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 19th March 1963 

8 0. 912, — In exercise of the powers conferred br section 73F of the 
Employees’ Slate Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government 
hereby exempts the factories situate in the areas In the State of OnsM 






io i4 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 50, 1965/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Part IT- 


mentioned in the Sihddiilfc appended to this notification, fioih the payment of 
the employer’s special contribution leviable under Chapter V-A of the said Act 
till the enforcement of the provisions of Chapter of that Act in those areas. 

Schedule 


Sh • 
No. 

' Name of 

District 

N'mieof the 
areas. 

Name of the f ctorya. 

I 

2 

3 

4 

I. 

Balasore 

Bap sore 

BaPng® IronWorks Ltd. 
Village Balia. 

X 

Cuttack 

- Cuttack 

Chhnttb'bat 11 Power I com 
Weaver's Co-operUive 
Society Ltd.> Village 
Chh a ti®. 



Naraj 

Hindustan Constructrion 

Co. Ltd. Workshop, 

> 

Samba lpui 

Remed 

Utk'l Foundry & Engineering 
Co. Ltd. 



Sambtcpr 

Utkal Automobiles QP) 

Ltd., Modipara. 


Knraput 

Jolapnt 

Garage Jolaput, M.M.E. 
Scheme, Government of 
Orissa. 

5- 

Mayurbhan) 

Palbeni 

KaNhandl Saw Mill. 




[No. F. 0(81)/03-HLl 


New 

Delhi, the 20 th March 

1963 


S.O. 913. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the 
Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1°48 (34 of 1948), the Central Government 
hereby makes tpe following amendments in the notification of the Gov rnment 
of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S.O. 2871, dated the 
11th September, 1962 namely:— 


In the Schedule to the sa[d notification, against serial No. 7, the following 
entries occurring in columns 3 and 4 respectively shall be omitted, namely: — 


3 

4 


’’Hospet 

1. Hydro Electric Power House, 

2. Tungabhadia Project Repair t Yard.” 



[No. F. 6(41)/62-HI.] 


S.O. 914. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the 
Employees’ State Insurance Act. 1948 (34 of 1948), 'the Central Government 
hereby makes the following further amendments in the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry pf Labour and Employment No. S.O. 2665, dated 
2nd November, 1961, namely: — • 

In Schedule I to the said notification, against serial No, 3, the following entries 
opeuring in columns 4 and 6 respectively shall be omitted, namely: — 


4 


5 


“Hospet 1. The India Sugar & Refinery Ltd, 

2. The Indian Hume Pipe Co. Ltd,” 


[No. F. HI-6(141)/59.J 


Sea j(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . MARCH 30, 1903/CHAITRA £>,. 1885 1015 


New Delhi, the 22nd March 1953 

S.O, 915. — In exercise of tbe powers conferred by section 73F of fhe 
Employees’ State Insurance Act, 194a (34 of 1940), the Central Government hereby 
exempts the factories situate In the areas in the State of West 3engal .mentioned 
In the Schedule appended to this notification, from payment of employer’s special 
eontrlbution leviable under Chapter V-A of the said Act until the enforcement 
•1 the provisions of Chapter V of that Act in those areas. 


Schedule 


I 


■ SI. Name of District 

No. 

Name of the area 

Name of the factory 

I 2 

3 

4 

1 Bankura 

Blshnupur 

Khatra . 

Sribas Rice, Flour & Oil Mills. 

1. HindustamSpWi Pipes. 

2. Central Repair Shop. 

3. Repair Workshop. 

a Blrbhum 

Bolpur . 

Patelnagar 

X. Mukherjee Engg. Co, 

2. Paul Bhakta Bhai Oil Mills. 

Patelnagar Fire Bricks & Potteries Ltd. 

3 CBurdwan 

Barakar 

Ushagram 

Barakar Engg. & Foundry Works Ltd, 

1. Kachi Patal Saw Mill. 

2. French Motor Car Co. Ltd. 

3. Crept Motors. 

; 4. . Solar Chemical. 


4 Darjeeling 

3 Jalpaiguri 

. Darjeeling (Proper) 

. Chamurchi 

Siliguri 

6 Malda . 

. Malda 

7 Midnapur 

. Jhargram 

Kharagpur 


Surjaganj 

8 Murshidabad . 
Nadia , . 

Cossimbarar 
. Fulia Colony 
Krishnanagar 


Shantipur 

x» Pnrulla . 

Rflnaghat 

Jhalda 


Darjeeling Electric Supply Dept. 

Sankar Saw Mill. 

r. North Bengal Saw Mill. . 

2. Walfort "Transport Ltd. (workshop) 

The Milda Mango Processing Co-operative 
Society Ltd. * 

Sri-Janakilal Aganval Oil Mill". ' 

Shrce Lux mi Chemicals & Industries Privet^ 
Ltd. ■ 

Hnshikesli Kundu A Modan Mohan Kundu 
(Suuaganj Oil Mill), 

Bengal Textile Mills Ltd. ’ 

Fulia Sheet Metal & Hardware Industries. 

1. Taps & Dies Ltd. 

2. Osborn (Indin) Enyg; Private Ltd. 

X. Smtipur Industrial Co-operative Society 
Ltd. 

2. Rebuilding of West Bengal Santigarh Co- 

| 1 operative Multi-Purpose Society Ltd, > * 

3 . Sri Krishna Co-operative Textile Society 
Ltd. 

Nadia Textile Mills. 

► * yPf w** 

Eastern Cutlery & Tools Mfg. Co. (Private) 
Ltd. 


[No. F. 6(fi3)/<$3-HI] 

8,0. 916. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 1 
of the Employees' State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948). the Central Government 
hereby appoints the 31st March, 1963, as the date on which the provisions of 
Chapter IV (except sections 44 and 43 which have already been brought into force). 


1010 


GA 


OF 


A : MARCH 80, 1963/CHAITRA 9. 1885 [Fakt H- 


and Chapters V and VI [except sub-section (1) of section 76 and section 77, 78, 71 
and 81 which have already been brought into force] of the said Act shall come 
Into forte in the following areas of Dehradun, Mathura, Hapur and Harangaon 
in the State of Uttar Pradesh, namely. — • 

I. Dehradun: 

(i) The areas within the Municipal Board, Dehradun. 

(ii) The areas within the Cantonment Board, Dehradun. 

(iii) Villages Udaiwala Karanpur, Chukhuwala, Moheblawala, NIranJanpur, 

Dehradun, Ranghaiwala, Karanpurkhas, Dehrakhas, and Kaulagarh u 
Pargana, Tehsil and District Dehradun. 

II. Mathura; 

(I) The areas within the Municipal Board, Mathura, 

(ii) The areas within the Cantonment Board, Mathura, 

(iii) Village Ahilyaganj In Pargana, Tehsil and District, Mathura. 

III. Hapur: 

(1) The areas within the Municipal Board, Hapur, Pargana and Tehsil Hapur, 
District Meerut, 

(ii) The areas within the Municipal Board, Hapur, Pargana Sarwa, Tehsil 

Hapur, District Meerut. 

(iii) Village Hapur Shivgarhi in Pargana and Tehsil Hapur, District Meerut. 

IV. Dharangaon: 

Village Harangaon in Pargana and Tehsil Firozabad, District Agra. 

[No. F. 13(23)/63-HI,J 

New Delhi, the 23rd March 1963 

8.0. 917. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 60 of the 
Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government 
hereby exempts the undermentioned factories belonging to the Central Govern- 
ment m the Ministry of Works, Housing and Rehabilitation and placed under 
the Central Public Works Department, from all the provisions of the said Act 
for a further period of six months upto and inclusive of the 14th September, 1963, 
namely: — 

1. The Electric Fans, Motors and Appliances Repsir Shop, Barskhamba 

Road, New Delhi 

2. The Horticultural Tools and Implements Repsirt Shop, New Delhi. 

3. The Auto and General Repairs and General Machines Shop and Foundry, 

American Ware House, Factory Road, New Delhi 

4. The Desert Cooler Refrigerator, Air Conditioning and Electric Repair 

Workshop, Barakhamba Road, New Delhi 

[No. F. 6(87)/C3-HL] 


New Delhi, the 26th March 1963 

S.O. 918. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 1 
of the Employees’ State Insurance Act 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Govermrrnt 
hereby appoints the 31st March, 1963, as the date on which the provisions of 
Chapter IV (except sections 44 and 45 which have already be n brought into 
force), and Chapters V and VI [except sub-section (1) of section 76 and sections 
V7. 78 79 and 81 which have already been brought into force) of the said Act shall 
come into force in the following areas of Belgaum in the State of Mysore, 
namely: — 

The areas covered by the Municipal limits of Belgaum and inclusive of the 
following areas in and around the Municipal limits of Belgaum, namely: — 

(1) City Survey limits. 

(2) Mazagaon area, including Survey No. 691/1/1. 

(3) Cantonment area. 

(4) Khasbag, Survey Nos. 80, 76, 48. 




*EC. 8(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 50, I96S/CHAITRA 9, 1883 


IO17 


(5) Angol, Survey No. 733. 

(6) Survey Nos. 899, 10, 892, 1409, 368, 897 and 1381. 

[No. F. 13(24)/63-HI.j 
O. P. TALWAR, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 21 st March 1963 

6.0. 919. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Art, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government nereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Bankola Colliery, Post Office Ulthra, District Burdwan (West 
Bengal) and their workmen. 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 
Rqirxnci No. 31 or 1962. 

Partin: 

Employers in relation to the Bankola Colliery, P.O. Ukhra, Dlstt Burdwan. 

Atro 

Their workmen. 

Present : 

Shri L. P. Dave — Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

On behalf of the employers . — Shri M. S, Bala, Personnel Officer, M/s. Bird & 
Co. (P.) Ltd. 

On behalf of workmen.— Shri Kalyan Roy, Vice-President, Colliery Mazdoor 
Sabha, 

Stats: West Bengal. Industry: Coal Mines 


AWARD 

The Government of India, Ministry of Labour and Employment, New Delhi, 
by them order No. 2/66/62/LRII, dated 23rd July 1..62, have referred the industrial 
dispute existing between the employers in relation to Bankola Colliery and their 
workmen in respect of the question whether the dismissal of Sarvashri Fateh 
Bhalkh, Bachan Shaikn, Sarju Gope, Shew Pujan Ahir, Julphikar Shaikh, Markendi 
Shaikh, Ramki3han Ahir and Farsuram Dusadh, workmen of the above colliery 
was justified and if not, to what relief they were entitled, for adjudication to this 
Tribunal? 

2. The facta relating to the dispute are that the eight workmen mentioned in 
the order of reference were workmen working in the Bankola Colliery. The 
Colliery had not got enough houses for all workmen bpt houses were being 
gradually constructed. It appears that some rooms were constructed in March or 
April 1962. The management’s case is that these workmen and some other broke 
qpen the locks of some of these new rooms on 20th April L62 and unauthorisedly 
occupied them. The Manag.r asked them to vacate but they did not do so. 
Charge-sheets were thereupon served on them on or about 27th April 1962. They 
denied the charges stating that they had not been provided with quarters by the 
management and had to stay in rented houses where they had to pay high rents 
and where there vras no arrangem nt for water etc. They further said that they 
had drawn the attention of the authorities to these difficulties and requested them 
to make some arrangements; and that the Group Personnel Officer asked them to 
move into the new quarters which were being built. It was then stated that they 
continued to live in rented quarters for some tim ' and later on moved into the new 
quarters according to the G, P.O.’s suggestion. A departmental enquiry was held 
bv the then Welfare Officer of the Colliery, who submitted his report to the Chief 
Mining Engineer, It appears however that the papers were lost by the Peon who 
was taking them from the colliery to the Company’s office. Thereupon fresh 
charge-sheets were served on all the concerned workmen on 11th May, 1962. They 
replied to the charge-sneets, Ther - after a fresh enquiry was held by the new 
Welfare Officer who held the charges proved and recommended dismissal of the 
present workmen. Lighter punishment was recommended for the remaining 
workmen, as they had vacated the quartern The papers were sent to the Chief 



IOr8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 1903/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Part II- 


Mining Engineer who ordered discharge or dismissal of the present workmen. 
Accordingly, they were dismissed and tins has given rise to the present dispute 
and .reference, * 

3. The workmen’s case is that they did not unauthorisedly occupy the quarters 
but that they had done so with the permission of the then Welfare Officer They 
also urged that the Management was deliberately not allotting quarters to them 
though they were senior because they were members of a particular Union while 
the company was supporting another Union. They further urged that the enquiry 
which was held was not proper and that the dismissals were not justified On 
the other hand, the management’s case is that no permission had b en given to 
the workmen to occupy the quarters. They' also contend that the enquiry which 
were held were proper. Lastly it was contended that this was not an industrial 
dispute but an individual dispute and hence there could be no valid reference and 
this Tribunal has therefore no jurisdiction. 

4. Taking the last point first, the contention of the management is that the 
present dispute is an individual dispute and not an industrial dispute. It is now 
•ettled law that though a dispute may be about an individual, it can become an 
industrial dispute if i( is taken up by a large number of wqrkmen of the particular 
establishment. The manag -ment’s contention is that the present dispute appears 
to have been taken up by the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha, which has no membership 
in this colliery and hence the dispute could not be converted from an individual 
dispute to an industrial dispute. In this conn 'ction, the employers relied on the 
cases of Express Newspapers (Private ) Ltd., vs. First Labour Court, West Bengal, 
(1959) I.L.L.J. page 600 and Visalakshi Mills Ltd. vs. Labour Court, Madurai and 
another (1962) It L.L.J. page 93. Both cases recognise the principle that an 
individual dispute could be taken up by an Union and thereby it could be trans- 
formed into an industrial dispute. In the Calcutta case, it was held that there was 
no justification in holding that a workman’s case could be taken up by an Union 
unconnected with the employer or the industry concerned and still pass the test 
whereby an individual dispute could be transformed into an industrial dispute; 
because, the employer is not concerned with the workmen who are not in his 
employ and he could not posubly have an industrial dispute or any dispute with 
persons who are not in his employ. It was then held that the real test appeared 
to be as to whether the majority or a large portion of the workmen employed In 
the particular industry were concern -d in the dispute or not. It was also held 
that when the Union takes up the cause of an individual workman, it signifies a 
concerted action on the part of the workmen who were members of that Union. 
The whole point was as to wh ther the employer was fighting a dispute with a 
large number of his workmen. It was lastly held that when a workman was 
represented by. an Union of the workmen of the employer or a large portion 
thereof, and if the employer alleged that the Union d(d not represent the views 
of the majority of the workmen or a large portion thereof, then in the first 
instance, it would be for him to prove the same. 

5. In the Madras case also, the High Court held that it wa3 wril settled that 
an individual dispute could become an industrial dispute if it had the collected 
support from a considerable or substantial number of workmen in the establish- 
ment It also held that where thire was a general Union at whose instance a 
dispute regarding an individual workman was referred for adjudication, it could 
not be assumed that the individual dispute was converted into a collective dispute 
if the general union hud on its rolls a fuw of the workmen in the establishment as 
its members. In such ca=,e, it would have to be proved that the workmen who are 
members of the general union have substantial or considerable section of the 
workmen of the particular establishment and also that those members parti- 
cipated in or acted together Or arrived at an und.rstanding and collectively 
supported on the date of the reference the demand or the cause of an individual 
dispute. 

6 Applying the above principles .to th ■ facts of the present case, we find that 
the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha is a Trade Union working in the coal mines and it 
has started its branch in this colliery in 1961. There is another union working in 
this colliery and admittedly this other union is recognised by the management 
From tlm evidence of workman Bachhap Sheikh, it appears that about 300 work- 
men have joined the new union formed in this Colliery. From his evidence, it 
also appears that algout one and half months after the present workmen were 
dismissed a me ting had been held by the workmen of the Colliery ebout the 
dismissal ’and. the said meeting was attended by about 1,000 workmen The Wel- 
fare Officer of the coJJiery, Shri Prasad, admits -that the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha 
has formed a union' recently in the colliery but he could not say as to how many 
workmen had joined the said union. From the evidence of the Welfare Officer, 



hto. 5(11)] the GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 50, 1%5/CHAITRAr 9, 1835 


roi9 


it also appears that the total number of workmen in the colliery is about 1,500. 
As I mentioned above, the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha is admittedly working in this- 
;olliery‘ from before the time the" present dispute started. It had tak n up the 
present dispute and at its instance, it has been referred for adjudication. The 
presumption therefore would be that the dispute is an industrial dispute and it 
woutd he fOr the employers to show that the dispute has not the support of a 
large number of their workmen. Actually, from the evidence of Bachhan Sheikh, 
it would appear that the dispute has the support of quite a large number of 
workmen of the colliery. I am therefore satisfied that the present dispute is an 
industrial dispute and hence the reference Is proper. 

7. Coming to the facts of the present case, the charge against the workmen' 
concerned Is that (hey unauthorisedly ■ occupied certain quarters by breaking op’fsi 
the • locks and that they did not vacate them though asked to do so. Two 
enquiries were held In the matter. This was because the pap=?r relating to the 
first enquiry were logt in transit while they were being sent,. to the higher 
authorities for approval' of the> punishment proposed. As the dismissal has been 
based on the findings of the second enquiry, we need not go into the merits of the 
first enquiry but we shall have to consider whether the second enquiry was pro- 
perly held or not. 


8. The law On this point is well settled. Where a person is dismissed as a 
result of a departmental enquiry, the Tribunal would not interfere unless there 
was want of good faith or there was victimisation or unfair labour practice or 
where the nianagement had been guilty of a basic error or violation of the princi- 
ples of natural justice or when on materials the findings were perverse. The 
Tribunal is not sitting in appeal again.h the decision of the domestic enquiry and 
could not substitute its own decision for the decision of the departmental enquiry. 
It could not go into the question as whether the evidence on which the findings of 
the domestic enquiry were based was sufficient or insufficient nor could it consider 
the question of credibility of the evidence. The latest decision on the point 13 
that of the Supreme Court in the case of Hamdard Dawakhana Wakf vs. Its work- 
men, (1962) II L.B.J. 772. 


9 Before proceeding further, I may mention that a grievance was made before 
me on behalf of the workmen that the management was showing -favouritism in 
the aucstion of allotment of quarters and that only members of the recognised 
union were allotted quarters while others were not, The management deny this 
and allege that in allotting quarters, they generally look into the question of 
seniority except in the case of persons who are considered to be doing essential 
service The question is not relevant or material in the present case. Even li a 
workman was entitled to get a quarter allott.d to him and even if it was not 
done he should have got the matter taken up by his union but it would not entitle 
him to take the law in his own hands or to occupy quaiters without being autho- 
rised to do so. 

10 On the merits of this question, I may say that the register which is sale 
to have been maintained for the purpose of allotment has boen produced before 
me but it docs not appear to be kept r< gularly. It docs not contain signature, 
nor does it show the length of service of the persons to whom quarters arc showr 
to have been allotted. I was also told that there is a Comnntte ■ for the purpose o 
allotment of quarters, but no proceedings of the said Committee nave been pro 
ducecT fa'e F ore me. Th: records thus do not show whether seniority is respeetec 
in allotting quaiters. The question, however, as I said above, is not material o 
relevant in the present dispute, because, a ,suming that the workmen cone rr J c 
or some of them weie entitled to allotment of quarters and were still not allotte; 
any quart 'rs, they could not occupy the quarters without permission and if -the 
did so, the nianagement would have the right to take disciplinary action agains 
them, 

11. 1 may mention here that so far as the, enquiry is concerned som 
Irregularities were committed ther in. The most important irregularity is t 
orcsencc- df one Nagcswar Prasad Singh at the time of the inquiry, lie l. a 
ordinary clerk in the colliery; but he is also the Sccr.tary of the local branch c 
the recognised union. Allegations have been made against him by the pres r 
union; I am not concerned with those allegations. Th- fact however remains t£ 
thic Hprk was present at the time of both the enquiries. I do not undeis a 
^hv be should Save been called to r n:'- nresent at th- time of the enquiry b 
the V Welfare Officer It^was said that he was required to bear witness to what w< 

was also present and there was no necessity to keep this clerk present. In 



<020 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH JO, 196J/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Part n~ 


connection, it was said that Shrl Prasad who held the second enquiry was new 
to the colliery and did not know that this clerk was the Secretary of the recognised 
union. Assuming that this was so, the Manager and the Group Personnel Officer 
were present. Actually, the Group P“rsonnel Officer had come there with the 
mpeciflc purpose to see that Shri Prasad who was new to the colliery did not make 
any mistake. Still neither he nor the Manager asked Shrl Prasad not to keep 
’this clerk present In my opinion, this was a gross irregularity. 


12. Then there is another irregularity in that the statement of one of the 
■charge-sheeted persons was not recorded on that day but was recorded on the 
following day. As stated above, not only the present eight workm.n, but some 
■five others were also ehargesheeted for unauthorised occupation and the enquiry 
was held jointly against all thirteen at the iun; time. The other five persong 
-excepting the present eight appear to have vacated the quarters probably in the 
•course of the enquiry and so far as they are concerned, they have escaped the 
punishment of dismissal, because of this. The statement of one of these persons 
•was not recorded on the day on which the statements of others were recorded 
and we are told that this was, because he was not welL There is nothing on the 
record at any place that the statement of this person was not recorded on that day 
because he was not well. I think that his statement was not recorded on that day 
-probably to enable him to vacate the quarters which he must have done that 
■evening so that in his statement, he could say tjjat he had (already) vacated the 
-quarters. 


13 It was also usged that the Enquiry Officer had not followed a proper pro- 
cedure in that in some cases, he recorded the replies in question and answer form 
and in some cares, he did so in narrative form. I do not think that this is an 
-irregularity or illegality; even if it is an irregularity, It is not material and would 
pot vitiate the enquiry. It was also said that the names of all the different charge- 
sheeted persons were not mentioned when the witnesses were being-cross-examined 
and that a general question was put to all of them together whether they wanted 
■to cross-examine the particular witness. It appears that different charge- 
sheeted persons did exercise their right of cross-examination from time to time 
Showing that all of them were given the opportunity to do so and I do not think 
that they were in any way prejudiced by this. 


14 It was also all--ged that the Manager and Nageshwar took part in the 
Inquiry by putting questions to the ehargesheeted persons and that a ter the charge- 
^sheeted persons put some questions to some witnesses, the Manager stopped them 
from putting further questions. It was alleged that the statements of the wit- 
nesses^ and ehargesheeted persons were recorded in English though they were 
given in Hindi and were not read ovar or explained to the ehargesheeted persons, 
These allegations, except that the stat'ments were given in Hindi but were 
recorded in English, have been denied by the Manager and by the Enquiry 
Officer No such specific allegation was made in the wntt n statement before 
the Tribunal: some of the allegations were made for the first time in the cross- 
examination of Bachan. I do not believe these all' gations. 

ifi It was then urged that the Welfare Officer should have been examined as 
a witness at the second inquiry and as this was not done, it should hay:- been 
held that the workmen had been permitted by him to occupy the quarters. It 
TriHw he noted that the workmen’s case as made out in their repli°s to the first 
^aree sheet was that they had occupied the quarters with the permission of the 
charge-sheet q." are a short form for '‘Group Personnel Officer”. 

Rhri ^Inha has been the Grouo Personnel Officer of this and other allied coUieriei 
Shri Shiha has neen xne <^r ln their replies to the eharge- 

*? r " annea^d to b£ that Shri Sinha had authorised their occupying 

sheets therefore appeaeao Hdater at gijua while the colliery in 

th n, n ? U d r lt e BanSa at quUe a Kt distance. At the time when the first enoulry 
eituat d at Bankom at quue a * the v meant was that it was the Welfare 

was held -. auSsed them to occuoy the quarters. This enquiry was then 

the then Welfare Officer, m/ Mnkheriee, and it was InthecouTse ol 
being held fe v the tnen weiiar. y the flrst tjme thst 1t wag shri Mukherle* 

^nr^authorised them to occupv the quarters. Shri Mukherjre completed the 
who had authorised tnem to . , given the permission and sen! 

enquiry and in a uthorities™ We are not concerned in the present case ai 

ihe Pape™ to shoU Td have done when it was alleged in the course o. 

to w.rat Shri Mukneriee sno u, cau a e the workmen concerned have 

ihe inauirv that he had given authority b cause tne wo w na 

not been dismissed as a result of this enquiry, was held. Bv thli 

ebout this enquiry were -lost in trans it and a ^ond^ e a by shrl p^ad an( 

SS £S3%S3K ‘M* waJ certainly a ven 




Sic. 3(ii)] 


THE CAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH SO. I903/CHA1TRA 9, 1885 


T02I 


important witness at the time of the second enauiry, but he was not examined os 
a witness betore the enquiry officer nor has he been examined as a witness before 
me. 


18. It is true that the Tribunal is not sitting in appeal against the order of the 
Enquiry Officer. It also cannot consider the question about sufficiency or 
insufficiency of the evidence. In the present case, how.ver it would not be a case 
of merely sufficiency or insufficiency of evidence, but it would be a question of 
there being any evid nee at an. ine workmen alleged that Shn Muk.ierjee had 
permitted them to occupy the quarters and th.y have stated so in their statement. 
As against this, there was no evidence. The person who could d ny this would 
have been Shn Mukherjee, but he was not examined. In the circumstances, it 
would not be a case of sufficiency or insufflei ney of the evidence or reliability or 
unreliability of evidence, but it would be a case of there being no evidence to 
Justify a particular finding. I need not however go into this question and give a 
a. finite finding because in my opinion even if Shn Mukherjee had asked the 
workmen to occupy the quarters, he had no authority to do so and the workmen 
eouid not occupy the quarters at his instance. 

17. It may oe noted at the outset that in their reply to the first chargesheet, 
the workmen first stated that they had great hardship for want of quarters in tha 
colliery; that they had to pay high rents; that there was inconvenience like water 
etc; and that they had drawn the attention of the Manager, the G.P.O. and others- 
to this and requ sted them to make some arrangements tor them. It was then 
alleged that G.P.O. had told them to move into the quarters which were being 
built, The reply then says, “so we waited and continued to live in the rented 
quarters and according to thi suggestion I moved into the quarter”. In other 
words, it would mean that the G.P.O. must have given a sort or vague direction 
that the new quarters when ready would be allotted to them and so they waited 
and continued to live in the rent d quarters and later on moved into the new 
quarters according to the suggestion of the G.P.O. 

18. In their statement at the time of the second enquiry, most of the workmen 
stated that they saw the Manager on 16th, 17th and 18th April, 1.. (12 and requested 
him to allot quarters to them and on every occasion he told them to go and see tha 
Welfare Officer. When they approached the Wei are Officer, he told them to have 
patience and that quarters would be given to them when ready. On 16th April 
1962, the Welfare Officer told them that he had not received any instruction from 
the Manager and that he would consult the Manager and inform them. On 19th 
when they approached the Welfare Officer, he told them that the quarters w.ra 
ready and they could occupy them and thereupon they occupied the quarters at 
12 noon on 24th February. 1962. Most of th m also admitted that the Manager 
called them after they occupied the quarters and asked them to vacate them but 
they replied that they would vacate only if alternate arrangements w.re made 
for them. Some of them also stated before the Enquiry Officer that when the 
Agent visited the quarters, they had told him that no one who was then living in 
the quarters was given permission by anybody and hence there was no question of 
their asking mr or getting permission. 

19. In his deposition before the Tribunal, Bachan Sheikh, one of the concerned 
workmen, has been examined on behalf of all of them. He has stated that when 
tne workmen approached the Manag r for allotment of quarters to them, he asked 
them to go to the G.P.O. (meaning Welfare Officer) and when they went to tha 
Welfare Officer, he said that he would consult the Manager. Bachhan Sh ikh has 
further said that when they again went to the Welfare Officer after some days, 
he to'd them that they could occupy the quart rs which had been recently con- 
structed. He has then stated that before they could do so, the Manager went away 
on leave. The Welfare Officer how.ver said that they may occupy the quarters 
and he would obtain the Manager’s sanction and on this assurance, they went and 
occupied the quarters. 

20. Reading the above statement as a whole, it would ba clear not only that 
the Welfare Officer had no authority to al’ot Quarters to the workmen and that 
only the Manager could do so, but it is also clear that the workmen knew that 
tne Manager and th ■ Manager alone could allot quarters to them. They wore 
once told by the Welfare Officer that he had not yet consulted the Manager, Later 
on, he told them that they could occupy the quarters and he would obtain the 
Managers sanction and w? are told by Bachhan Sheikh that it was on tii3 
assurance that the workmen occupied the quarters. In other words, the Manager 
■lone could allot the quarters and he had not done so. 

21. The subsequent conduct on the part of the workmen also shows that th°y 
had not been permitted to occupy the quarters and yet they wanted to take the- 


1022 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . MARCH SO, 1963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Pa*t H- 


law in their own hands. When questioned by the Agent, they told him that others 
had occupied the quarters without permis.ion and therefore there was no question 
for their obtaining permission. In other words, the attitude was that if others 
had taken the law m their own hands, and hence they had also the right to do 
so. Similarly, when the Manager asked them to vacate the quarters, they said 
that they would do so only if alternate arrangements were made for them. This 
also shows they had occupied th; quarters without permission probably because 
they had some hardships m their old quarters or probably because they felt that 
they were not being allotted quarters because of Trade Union rivalry. Whatever 
th j reason may be, ttm fact remains that the workmen took the law in their own 
bands and occupied the quarters without authority and refused to vacate them 
when asked to do so. This is an act of gross indiscipline and it could not be said 
that the order of dismissal in case of such indiscipline would be improper. 

22, On the whole, I am satisfied that the charges agajnst the chargesheeted 
persons were duly proved; that they had unauthorised^ occupied the quarters 
and refused to vacate them when asked to do so. The order of dismissal is proper; 
and the workman are not entitled to any relief. In the circumstances of the case, 
I would order that parties should bear their own costa 

I pass my award accordingly. 

The 14th March, 1961L 


<Sd.) L. P. Dav*, 
Presiding Officer. 

[No. 2/60/02-LBIL] 

S.O. 920. In pursuance of 'section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 

(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award' of 
Shrl L P. Dave, Arbitrator, in the industrial dispute between tne employers in 
relation to the Bakaro Colliery of the National Coal Development Corporation 
Limited and their workmen. 

BEFORE SHRI L. P. DAVE, ' ARBITRATOR 

Reference No, Arbn-1/62 

Parties : 

Employers in relation to the Bokaro Colliery of the National Coal Develop- 
ment Corporation Limited 


and 

Their workmen represented by the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, (Hazaribagl 
Zone), Bermo. 

Present: 

Shri L P. Dave Arbitrator. 

Appearance: 

On behalf of Employers: Shri D. Narsingh, Advocate. 

On behalf of Workmen: Shri S. Das Gupta, Secretary, and Shri D, Pandey 
Office i Colliery Mazdoor Sangh. 

State: Bihar. Industry: Coal Mini* 

AWARD 

An Industrial dispute arose between the employers in relation to Bohar 
■Colliery of the National Coal Development Corpora* ion Limited and their werkme 
represented by th c Colliery Mazdoor Sangh (Hazaribagh Zone) Bermo, hereinafte 
referred ‘o as the ‘union’. They entered into an arbitration agreement on Kit 
-September 1962 under Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act agreeing to ref* 
the said dispute to my arbitration. The said agreement was sent to the Centr; 
Government who in pursuance of Sub-section (3) of Section 10A of th© InauStrif 
Disputes Act published it In the official Gazette- 



Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 50. I963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 j 0 23 


2. The dispute between the parties is regarding the minimum guaranteed wages. 
The union cun’.ends that in reviewing the total emoluments oi the coal cutlers 
and loaders in ine quarnes weexiy for tne purpose oi ensuring minimum 
guaranteed wages, in terms of para 765 of the Coni Award and para 19o ox Uie 
L.A.T. decision, payment on account of lead and lift should be excluded. The 
management on tne other hand were of Uie opinion that in terms of tne Coal 
Award and the L.A.T. decision, these payments should be taiten into account 
wnen undertaking such review. The (Ji.ioii and the Management have filed tneir 
statements before me in support of tne respective contentions. 

3. There are various kinds and categories of workmen employed in the coal 
mines. In the present dispute, we are concerned with coal cutters and loaders, 
wno are piece rated workers. The wage and other conditions of service of work- 
man employed in all the coal mines in India have been fixed by an Award ol 
the All India Industrial Tribunal (Coilieiy Disputes), which I shall hereafter 
reier to as the Coal Award, There were appeals against this decision to the 
Labour Appellate Tribunal and tne appeals were decided by that Tribunal on 
29th January 1957. I shall hereafter reier to this decision as the L.A.T. decision. 

4. So far as the coal cutters and loaders are concerned, thoy are, as I said 
above, piece rated workers and their basic wages have been fixed on the basis 
of their cutting and loading coal in tubs of 36 cubic feet each. In addition, they 
get dearness allowance depending upon the number of tubs and an additional 
dearness allowance depending on the cost of living index. We are not concerned 
wuh these items in the present dispute. These workmen also get an amount 
for what is known ns lead and lift. 

5. The term "lead and lift” has a special meaning in the coal mining Industry. 
The wages of coal cutters and loaders are fixed on the basis of their cutting and 
loading coal. Normally, the tubs to be loaded are supposed to be near the place 
from where the ceal is cut. Often, however, they are at some distance and the 
workers have therefore sometimes to walk some distance to load the coal in 
tubs and sometimes they have to climb an incline for the purpose. Naturally, 
they have to spend energy in doing this extra work, which also takes away 
some of their time. If the tubs were quite near Ihe working place and if the 
workers were not required to walk or to climb, they would have been able to 
cut and load more tubs, With a view to compensate them for the additional 
work of walking and/or climbing, they were and are being paid allowances for 
what is known as lead and lift respectively. Lead has been described to be the 
payment made for the distance ttf be covered by minors befbre they can load the 
coal, while lift is described as the payment made for carrying coal up an incline. 
Payments for lead and lift were standardised for the first time by what is known 
as the Conciliation Board Award of 1947. The Coal Award increased these wages 
by 33 1/3 per cent, and this was confirmed by the L.A.T, decision. 

6. As I mentioned above, the coal award fixed the basic wages of the workmen 
and also the wages for lead and lift. A demand was also made before that 
Tiibunal thnt piece rated workers should be guaranteed a minimum wage. It wa» 
urged that situations may arise when the earnings of piece rated workers 
may suffer for no fault of theirs; that some of the working places may be difficult; 
that there max be variations In the earnings of piece rated trammers and that 
a certain amount of uniformity could be introduced only by means of a guaranteed 
wage. These contentions have been considered in Chapter XVIII fat para 700 to 
766) of the Coal Award. The Tribunal agreed to the fixation of a minimum 
guarardeed wage. Para 705 of the Award deals with this point and it la this 
para which has given rise to the present dispute. 

7. This para mentions at first that the Tribunal did not propose to direct 
that the moment a worker went underground, he should be entitled automatically 
to 75% of his total emoluments. It was mentioned that piece rated work Itself 
In a sense guaranteed wages and the Tribunal expected that the workmen over 
a period of time to reach the workloads that the Tribunal had fixed for them, 
thouph on any particular dav they may not be in a position to do so. It was 
said tha 4 over a period of 13 working davs a worker must be in a position to 
cut. and load 13 tubs; and if at the end of 13 working days. It was found that 
he had not been able to cut and load 9-3/4 tubs (which would be 75% of the 
workload) over a D»riod of 13 working days, that certainly would bp a matter 
fo" Investigation by the management. The Tribunal also mentioned that the 
workloads had been fixed In such a wav tha) in the maiooi+v of cases It should 
be nossiffie for +he nick minor to reach 9 3/4 tubs. But if. on the other hand, 
for no fault of his, he were not able to cut and loed 9 3/4 tubs the management 



THI GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH SO, 196J/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Part II- 


would have to review the situation and take appropriate steps. This is how the 
Tribunal understood the demand and the friounal held tnat there was notr.mg 
Unreasonable about It. The Tribunal also felt that they should see that differences 
on this score did not arise often and that for that purpose they directed tnat me 
earnings of the piece rated workers should be reviewed at the end of 13 working 
days and if on account of factors for which the piece rated work rs were noo 
responsible, they could not reach their outputs as fixed by the Tribunal, the 
management should make up the deficiency to the extent of 75% o the total 
emoluments that they would have earned under normal conditions, after setting 
off towards the same any lay-off compensation that may have been paid under 
Section 25C of the Industrial Disputes Act On appeal, the only modification 
made by the L.A.T. decision was that the period of 13 working days was reduced 
to a weik of 0 working days. 

8. The dispute between the parties arose in this way. A worker is ordinarily 
supposed to cut and load 0 tubs in a week and to be paid accordingly. According 
to the above directions, if in a particular week, he is not able to cut and load 
41 tubs for no fault of his, the management has to pay him the minimum wage 
as for 41 tubs. If during that week, the worker has earned something by way 
of lead and lift, the management taka into account the payment made for lead 
and lift in fixing the guaranteed minimum wage as for 41 tubs. The Union 
eontends that the lead and lift is a separate payment and should not be taken 
Into account in arriving at the minimum guaranteed wage and that the worker 
should be paid for 41 tubs. In addition to what they might have earned by way 
•f lead and lift. 

9. The workmen’s main argument in this connection Is that In para 765 of 
the Coal Award the Tribunal had fixed the minimum "output” of a worker and 
had said that if the worker could not reach that output, the management should 
make up the deficiency. On this ground it was urged that the payment as for 
cutting and loading of 41 tubs should be the minimum guaranteed wage, Irres- 
pective of whether anything was earned for lead and lift; and that payment. 
If any, mad* for lead and lift would be in addition to the minimum guaranteed 
wage. I am unable to agree with this contention. 

10. The idea of a minimum guaranteed wage Is that a workman should have 
a minimum wage guaranreed to him and that he should have the guarantee thaf 
he would not earn less than a particular amount for no fault of his. Normally, 
therefore, in arriving at the minimum guaranteed wage, the payments that he 
Would be entitled for the purpose of lead and lift should be taken Into account. 

11. I may her* refer to para 605 of the Coal Award, which refers to lead and 
lift. The Tribunal has observed that payments for lead and lift are made ‘'with 
a view to compensating the workman for the additional time spent in carrying 
a load, which time otherwise could have been spent on loading more coal”. The 
Tribunal also said that “the workload fixed by us does not take into accountl 
the factor of lead and lift". This has to be done and for this purpose the lead 
and lift have to be Included in the wages of the workman for purposes of deter- 
mining the D.A., Provident fund, etc. The Tribunal then observed that when 
the wages for cutting and loading were raised, the natural corollary would be 
that the rates of lead and lift should also be Increased. The Tribunal ultimately 
directed that the existing basic wages for lead and lift should be Increased by 
83 1/3 per cent, and observed that this Increase would comnensate the worker 
for the additional workload and would also be a disincentive for the management 
to unnecessarily add to the lead and lift. • 

12. I may also refer to para 818 of the Coal Award, where the Tribunal has 
mentioned that the payments for lead and lift were made to the miners for the 
extra and additional work they had to do and hence the Tribunal gave a direction 
that Ihese payments should be treated as basic wages for calculation of bonus 
lend Provident fund. 

13. The payments for lead and lift are thus payments for extra work done 
by a workman. If there was no lead or lift, the worker would have been able 
to cut and load more coal and his earnings would have increased to that extent. 
In fixing the workload also, lead and lift was not taken into account. That would 
mean that when considering the question of 75% of the total workload, the 
question of the person having been reauired to do lead and lift wouM have to be 
taken Into account. If there was no lead or lift, the workman concerned wculd 
have put In more work and would have earned more on that particular day and 
kls eaminga would have to be fixed, alter taking Into account payments for lead 




Sec, 3(li)] 


THE GA/E1TE OF INDIA : MA RCH 30, 1968/CHAITRA 9, 1885 


and lift also. If a person had to do lead and lift, his output in terms of tubs 
is bound to go down; that does not mean that his workload is less. Hence, even 
if we lay stress on the word ‘workload’ used in para 785 of the Coal Award, it 
would not mean that lead and lift should not be taken into account in arriving 
at the minimum guaranteed wage. 

14. It may then be noted that what the Coal Award lays down is that if on 
account of factors for which the piece rated workers are not responsible, they 
cannot reach their output as iixed by the Tribunal, the management should make 
up the deficiency to the extent of 75% of the total emoluments that they would 
have earned under normal conditions. In other words, it is deficiency in the 
emoluments that has to be made up. Payments for lead and lift are certainly part 
of emoluments, They count as basic wages not only for D..A but also for Provident 
fund and bonus. Thus, the earnings for lead and lift are emoluments for all 
purposes and would have to be taken into account in seeing that a workman gets 
75% of the emoluments that he would have earned under normal conditions. 

15. It was then urged that if payment for lead and lift was taken into account 
when paying the minimum guaranteed wage, it may lead to anomalies. It was 
argued that suppose a worker had, in a particular week, been 'able to cut and 
load only three tubs, he would get an additional amount for li tubs to make 
up the minimum wage for 4J tubs. Now, it was further argued, suppose another 
worker had also cut and loaded three tubs but had in addition earned something 
by way of lead and lift, the additional amount he would get would be for li 
tubs minus the amount earned by way of lead and lift. In other words, though 
he had done more work than the first worker, he would not get more. Anomalies 
of thij type are bound to occur, when workmen are to be paid a guaranteed 
minimum wage, irrespective of the actual amount of work done by them. Thus, 
a worker who had been able to cut and load four tubs, another worker who had 
been able to cut and load three tubs, and yet another worker who had been able 
to cut and load even less, would all get payment as for 4i tubs. In other words, 
a guaranteed minimum wage would not have any relation to the work actually 
done; and all workers who had been able to do less work than what would entitle 
him to an amount equal to the guaranteed minimum wage would get that amount, 
irrespective of what work they had done; and though the output of work may 
be different, they would get the same amount. In my opinion, an anomally of 
this type is a natural corollary of a guaranteed minimum wage, which, as I said 
above, can have no relation to the work actually done. Hence that would be no 
ground not to take into account the payment for lead and Tift, when paying the 
guaranteed minimum wage. 

16. On the whole, after considering all the points urged before me and after 
having given my careful consideration thereto, I hold that In fixing the guaranteed 
minimum wage in terms of para 765 of the Coal Award and para 195 of the L.A.T. 
decision, the payment on account of lead and lift must be taken Into account. 

I pass my award accordingly. 


(Sd.) L. P. Dave, 

Dated, the 14 th March 1963. Arbitrator. 

[No. 8/100/62-LRII.l 

New Delhi, the 22nd March 1963 

S-O. 921.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, in the Industrial dispute between the employers 
m relation to the Ballarpur Colliery of Ballarpur Collieries Company, Nagpur 
and their workmen. ’ 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT 

BOMBAY 

Reference No. CGIT-4 of 1963 

Employers in relation to Ballarpur Colliery of Ballarpur Collieries Company, 
Nagpur, 

AND 

their workmen. 

Present: 

Shri Salim M. Merchant, Presiding Officer. 



1026 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 1963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Part II- 


Industry: Coal Mining. 


State: Maharashtra. 


Dated, Bombay, the 12 th March, 1963. 

AWARD 

The Central Government, by the Ministry of Labour and Employment’s Order 
No. 3/8/62-LRTI dated 1st February, 1963, made in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d) sub-section (1) of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 
(14 of 1947), was pleased to refer the industrial dispute between the parties above- 
named, in respect of the subject-matter specified in the following Schedule to the 
said Order, to me for adjudication. 


Schedule 

Whether the management of Ballarpur Colliery of Ballarpur Collieries Com- 

g any was justified m terminating the services of Shri Lachamayya 
llayya, an Ex-T.B. Patient who was working as wagon shunting 
mazdoor, with effect from the 10th October, 1962. If not, to what relief 
is the workman entitled? 

After the reference was made the Ballarpur Colliery Workers’ Union, Ballarpur, 
Maharashtra State, which represents the workmen in this dispute, filed its written 
statement dated 11th February, 1963, in support of its claim. No written statement 
was received from the employer company but by a joint application dated 28th 
February, 1963, which has been signed on behalf of the Ballarpur Collieries Com- 
pany, Nagpur, by its Personnel Officer, Shri S. V. Kanade and on behalf of the 
workmen by Dr. D. P. Kawadkar, President Maharashtra Colliery Workers’ Union, 
Ballarpur, the parties forwarded to me the terms of settlement which had been 
reached between' them on 27th February, 1963, and they have prayed that I should 
dispose ot this dispute in terms of the settlement reached between them. A copy 
of the joint application of the parties dated 28th February, 1963, and the terms 
of settlement reached between them on 27th February, 1963, are annexed hereto 
and marked Annexures I and II respectively. As, under that terms of the 
settlement, Shri Lachamayya Ellayya is to be reinstated in service and some 
further relief has been granted to him, I do not see any reason for not accepting 
the terms of settlement and making an award in terms thereof. I, therefore, make 
an award in terms of the settlement reached between the parties on 27th February, 
1963. 

No order as to costs. 

Sd./- Salim M. Merchant, 

Presiding Officer, 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay. 
Annexure I. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT 

BOMBAY. 

Reference No. CGIT-4 of 196? 

In the matter of Ballarpur Colliery of Ballarpur Collieries Company, 
Nagpur, 

AND 

their workmen. 

WRITTEN STATEMENT 
May it please the Honourable Tribunal: 

The Colliery Company begs to submit its written statement as follows: — 

1. The Colliery Company had been trying to negotiate the matter with the 
Maharashtra Colliery Workers’ Union representing workmen of Ballarpur Col- 
liery in the industrial dispute concerned in Reference No. CGIT-4 of 1963, with 
a view to redress the grievance of the aggrieved workmen, as early as possible. 

2. The Management has pleasure to inform that the results of negotiations 
have been successful and a mutual agreement was reached at between the 
employers in relation to Ballarpur Colliery and their workmen, 

3. The said agreement was signed by representatives of both of the parties 
on 27th February, 1963, as per Memorandum of Settlement dated 27th February, 




Sec. 3(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 196S/CHAITRA 9, 1885 


1963 between the Management of the Ballarpur Collieries Company, Nagpur, and 
the Maharashtra Colliery Workers' Union, Ballarpur, copy of which is enclosed 
herewith. 

4, The Management submits that as per clause (v) of the terms of settlement, 
a copy of this agreement may be taken as written statement on behalf of the 
Management. 

5. It is further submitted that in view of the Agreement reached by both the 
parties, the Reference may now please be treated as closed, and an award may 
be given accordingly. 


Prayer 

It is prayed that an Award be given in terms of the Agreement, copy of 
which is enclosed herewith. 


For and on behalf of Ballarpur 
1 Collieries Co., Nagpur, 

Ballarpur: Sd./- 

Dated the 28 th February, 1963. Personnel Officer. 

The above Reference may please be treated as closed and an award may be 
given accordingly. 


For and on behalf of Maharashtra 
Colliery Workers’ Union, 
Sd./- 

President. 


Ballarpur: 

Dated the 28 th February, 1963. 

Annixure II 

MEMORANDUM OF SETTLEMENT DATED THE 27TH FEBRUARY, 1963 
BETWEEN THE MANAGEMENT OF THE BALLARPUR COLLIERIES COM- 
PANY, P.O. BOX NO. II, NAGPUR AND THE MAHARASHTRA COLLIERY 
WORKERS’ UNION, BALLARPUR. 


Names of the Parties: 

Representing Employers . — Shri S. V, Kanade, Personnel Officer, Ballarpur 
Collieries Co., Nagpur. 

Representing Workmen. — Eh'. D. P. Kawadkar, President, Maharashtra 
Colliery Workers’ Union, Ballarpur. 

Short Recital of the Case . — A dispute arose in regard to alleged illegal termina- 
tion of service of Shri Lachayya Yellayya, Wagon Shunting Mazdoor of Ballar- 
pur Colliery. His services were terminated because he had been sick for a period 
in excess of six months, and had not been declared fit at the end of six months 
to resume his normal duties. The services of Shri Lachayya Yellayya, were, 
therefore, terminated by the Management as per their letter No. 51 /C/10344, 
dated 20th October, 1962. The Union took up the matter and after long discus- 
sions, the folloing terms were arrived at. 

2, Te terms of settlement are as under: — 

(i) Shri Lachayya Yellayya is permitted to rpsume duties with immediate 
effect as per suggestions of the Medical Officer, Ballarpur Colliery, 
after being examined. 

(ii) The interim period from the date of termination of service to the time 

he resumes his duties should be treated as leave without pay, and he 
should be treated as on roll for the same period. 

(iii) The management agrees to pay Rs. 200 (Rupees two hundred) only to 

the President, Maharashtra Colliery Workers’ Union, Ballarpur, 
towards expenses and temporary relief to the worker concerned. 

(iv) It is further agreed, in relation to the present proceedings before the 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal in the above dispute, that 1 




1028 THE GA1ETTE of INDIA : MARCH 30, 1968/CHA1TRA 9, 1885 [Part II- 


in view ol the above agreement, no further action what-soever shall 
be taken by either party in pursuing this matter further. 

(v) It is also further agreed that the Management, instead of submitting 

their written statement, since the Union has already submitted the 
same, shall not submit such a written statement, but shall file a copy 
of this Agreement by way of their written statement. 

(vi) It is also further agreed by both parties that the tribunal may be re- 

quested, on the basis of this agreement, to treat the above reference 
as closed, and not to proceed further with the same. 

Signatures of the Parties 

Representing Employers: Representing Workmen 

Place, Ballarpur, Sd./- 

Dated the 27 th February, 1963. 

Witnesses: — 

(1) Sd./ 

(21 Sd./- 

Place: Ballarpur, 

Dated the 27 th February, 1963. 

[No. 3/8/62-LRII.] 

8.0. 922. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, In the matter of an application under Section 33A 
of the said Act from Shri Gaya Prasad, a workman of Indian Copper Corporation 
Limited Post Office Ghatsila c/o Mosabonl Mines Labour Union, Post Office Mosa- 
bonl Mines, District Singhbhum. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD. 

In the matter of a complaint under Section 33A of Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 47). 

Complaint No. 7 of 1963 in Reference No. 8 of 1962. 


Parties : 

Gaya Prasad, B. No. 4132, Timber Maz. South Sec. c/o Mosabonl Mines Labour 
Union, Mosabonl Mines P. O., Dist. Singhbhum. — Complainant. 

Vs. 

M/s. Indian Copper Corporation Ltd, P. O. Ghatsila, Dist. Singhbhum — 
Opposite party. 

Present : 

Sri Raj Kishore Prasad, M.A..BL. Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

Sri R. K, Nair, Mosaboni Mines Labour Union — for the complainant. 

Sri J. K. Ghosh, Advocate, with Sri K, Ramamoorthi, Labour Officer— for the 
Opposite party company. 

State: Bihar. Industry: Copper. 


Dhanbad, dated the 13 th February 1963. 


AWARD 


This is a complaint made on 11-1-1963 by the concerned workman, Gaya Prasad 
No. 4132, Timber Mazdoor of the Company, under Section 33A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 challenging the stoppage of his Increment. 


2. Before any notice was issued to the opposite party to show cause, if any, to- 
day a petition has been field on behalf of the complainant, signed by srt 
R. K. Nair, representative of the Union, which represents the complainant con- 
cerned, for permission to withdraw the complaint. 



w 


JO, 13 , 


A 9, 


3. Under the circumstances, the complaint Is permitted to be withdrawn, and, 
accordingly, the complaint Is disposed of in terms of the petition of withdrawal, 
which is marked Annexure ‘A’ and made a part of this award. 

Sd/. Raj Kibhore Prasad, 
Presiding Officer. 


Annexure A 

before the central government industrial tribunal, dhanbad. 

Complaint No. 7 of 1963 (U/s 33A) arising out of Rf.f. 8 of 1962. 

Between 

Gaya Prasad, B. No. 4132.— Applicant. 

V#. 

Indian Copper Corporation Limited, Ghatsila , — Opposite party. 

The petitioner on behalf of the complainant prays that the above referred com- 
plaint may kindly be withdrawn, 

Your petitioner: 

Sd/- R. K. Nair, 
Mosaboni Mines Labour Union, 
C/o, Mosaboni Mines. 
[No. 23/04/01-LRIL] 

S.O. 923. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Chapui Khas Colliery, Post Office Kalipahari, District Burdwan 
(West Bengal) and their workmen. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 
Referernck No. 48 of 1902 


Parties : 

Employers in relation to the Chapui Khas Colliery P. O Kalipahari, Burdwan. 
west Bengal. 


AND 

Their workmen. 

Present : 

Shrl L. P Dave . — Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

On behalf of Employers . — Shrl A. C, Seth, Manager, Chapui Khas Colliery, 

On behalf Workmen . — Shrl Kalayan Roy, Vice-President,, Colliery Majdur 
Sabha. 

State: West Bengal. Industry: Coal Mines. 

AWARD 

The Government of India, Ministry of Labour and Employment, by their order 
No 6/13/62-LRII dated 27th November, 1902, have referred the industrial dispute 
existing between the employers In relation to Chapui Khas Colliery and their work- 
men in respect of the question whether the action of the management in reverting 
Shri Sudhir Kumar Khan from “the post of lamp room-in-chage to the post of 
switch board attendant was justified and if hot, to what relief "he was entitled, for 
adjudication to this Tribunal. 

2, When the matter came up for hearing before the Tribunal to-day, the parties 
after some discussion entered into a compromise and produced a memorandum of 
settlement arrived at between them, copy appended herewith. The "dispute relates 
to a workman named Shri Sudhir Kumar Khan who was originally working as 



1030 


GA 


OF 


A : MARCH 30, 


/i AURA 9, 1885 [Part II 


a switch board attendant and was later on promoted to the post of lamp loom-in- 
charge. Subsequently he was reverted on the ground of inefficiency. Under the 
terms of compromise, he is to be posted as electric fitter and to be put m category 
IV and to be given one increment from the starting wages. In my opinion, the 
compromise is fair and reasonable, I therefore accept It. 

In the result, I pass an award in terms of the compromise. 

Sd ./- L, P, Dave, Presiding Officer. 


Doted the 14th March 1963, 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL; CALCUTTA. 

Reference No. 48 or 1962, 

Empolyers in relation to the Chapui Khas Colliery. 

AND 

Their workemen. 

The Parities discussed the matter and came to the following agreement.— 

That Shri Sudhir Kumar Khan will be placed in Category IV from 16th 
March, 1963 and designated as Electric Fitter. He will be drawing 
wages of Category IV (Starting wage) plus one increment on a monthly 
basis. After six months, his work will be reviewed and if proved 
satisfactory, will he given another increment. An award may be 
passed to this effect. The parties will bear their own cost. 

Sd./- Kalyan Roy, 

Vice-President, 

Colliery Majdur Sabha, 

Sd./- Sudhir Kumar Khan. 

14-3-63. 

Sd./- A. C. Seth, 

Manager, 

Chapui Khas Colliery 
P. O. Kalipahari. 
Dt. Burdwan, W. B. 
14-3-63. 

[No. 6/13/62-LRII.l 

S.O. 924,— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Palana Colliery, Palana (Rajasthan) and their workmen, 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL: DELHI 

Present: 

Shri Anand Naraln Kaul, Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi. 
The 18th February, 1963. 

Reference I. D. No. 337 of 1962. 

Between 

The employers in relation to the Palana Colliery, Palan, Rajasthan, 

and 

Their workmen. 

Sarvashri Bhadadi and Dr. Anand Parkash — for the management. 

None on behalf of the workmen. 

AWARD 

By S.O. dated the 18th December, 1962, the Central Government in the Ministry 
of Labour & Employment has referred to this Tribunal, for adjudication, an 
industrial dispute existing between the employers in relation to the Palana 
Colliery, Palana, Rajasthan and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 



Sec. 5(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, J963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 


1031 


In the Schedule annexed to the order. The matters as specified in the Schedule 
fire as follows ; — 

Whether the management of Palana Colliery was justified in suspending the 
following workmen from the 4th to the 7th May, 1962 (both days inclusive) and in 
deducting their wages'^ If not, to what relief are they entitled? 

1. Shri Phusa Ram s/o. Adu Ram, coal cutter. 

2. Shri Nanu Ram s/o, Malu Ram, coal cutter, 

3. Shri Laloo Ram s/o. Shera Ram, coal cutter. 

4. Shri Adu Ram s/o. Pooran Ram, coal cutter. 

5. Shri Nimba Ram s/o. Nanu Ram, surface trammer. 

6. Shri Heera R’am s/o. Nanu Ram, coal cutter. 

2. On receipt of the order, notice was issued to the President, Palan Colliery, 
Mazdoor Union, Bikaner for filing a statement of claim on the 1st February, 1963 
and to the management of the Colliery to file its written statement on the 18th 
February. No statement of claim was received on the 1st February and the 18th 
February was fixed to await the statement of the union. An application was, 
however, received by post on the 5th February, 1963, purporting to be signed by 
Shri Arjun Ram, President and Dr Jawahar Lai "patroiv’ of the Union, stating 
that the matter In dispute in the reference hftd^ been finally disposed of by the 
Payment of Wage Authority and since the claim of the workers concerned had 
been settled, to their satisfaction, there was no dispute left. On the 18th February 
also no-one appeared on behalf of the union and nor was any claim statement filed 
and on’y Dr. Anand Parkash appeared along with Mr. Bhadadi, Manager of the 
Colliery for the management. In view of the aforesaid application of the union, 
stating that no dispute remains between the parties and in view of the fact that 
no statement of claim has been filed by the union on two successive dates, fixed 
for the purpose, I see no reason why a no dispute award be not passed. A no 
dispute award is accordingly passed in the reference. 

Sd./- Anand Narain Kaui, 

Dated the 18th February, 1963. 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal: Delhi. 

[No. 6/ 23/ 62-LRII, 1 


S.O. 925. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
f 14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Oriental Bank of Commerce Ltd., and the New Bank of India 
Ltd., and their workmen. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DELHI 
Present: 

Shri Anand Narain Kaul, Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi. 

The 15th February, 1903. 

Reference I.D. No. 250 or 1962, 

Between 

The employers in relation to the Oriental Bank of Commerce Ltd., and 
the New Bank of India limited, 


AND 


Their workmen. 

Appearances: 

Sarvashri N. C. Sikri, G. D. Mehta and Dr. Anand Parkash — for the manage- 
ment. 

Sarvashri B. K, Chopra, K. D, Bhandari and H. L. Parwana — for the work- 
men. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 80, 1969/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Part H- 


AWAKD 


By Government Order No, S.O. 55(I0)/62-II-LRIV, dated the 24th September, 
1962, the Central Government referred to this Tribunal, for adjudication, an 
industrial dispute, existing between the employers in relation to the Oriental 
Bank of Commerce Limited and the New Bank of India Limited and their work- 
men in respect of the matters specified as follows in the Schedule sub-joined to 
the order: — • 


Schedule 


How the pay of the workmen of the Oriental Bank of Commerce Limited 
and the New Bank of India Limited should be refixed consequent 
on the upgradation of the Banks from Class ‘D’ to Class ‘C’ with 
effect from the 1st January, 1957 and the 1st January, 1969 respec- 
tively, under paragraph 64 of the award of the All India Industrial 
Tribunal (Bank Disputes'), Bombay constituted by the notification 
of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour No, 
S.R.O. 36, dated the 5th January, 1952, as modified by the decision 
of the Labour Appellate Tribunal in the manner referred to in sec- 
tion 3 of the Industrial Disputes (Banking Companies) Decision 
Act, 1955 (41 of 1956)? 


2. On the 30th January, 1963 when the case came up before me for hearing 
the parties to the dispute between the management of the Oriental Bank of 
Commerce Limited, Delhi and their workmen reported having arrived at an 
amicable settlement and a memorandum of settlement marked as Annexure “A” 
was filed jointly by Mr. Harbans Lai, Staff Superintendent of the Oriental Bank 
of Commerce and Dr. Anand Parkash on behalf of the management and by 
Shri H. L. Parwana on behalf of the Oriental Bank of Commerce Employees’ 
Union. The aforesaid representatives verified the terms of the settlement embo- 
died in the memorandum and sought an award in terms thereof in so far as 
they were concerned. Parties to the dispute between the New Bank of India 
Limited and their workmen asked for time till the next sitting, for filing a 
settlement, 


3. Today when the niatter came up before me, the parties to the dispute 
between the New Bank of India Limited and their workmen also reported hav- 
ing arrived at an amicable settlement and a memorandum of settlement marked 
as Annexure "B” was filed jointly by the parties. Shri N. C. Sikri, Advocate, 
holding a special power of Attorney and Shri G. D. Mehta, Superintendent, Head 
Office of the Bank, holding a general power of Attorney for the Bank as also 
Dr. Anand Parkash authorised representative of the management appeared on 
behalf of the Bank while Mr, Balraj Krishan Chopra, President and Mr. Kapal 
Dev Bhandari, Secretary, representing the New Bank of India Employees’ Union 
as also Shri H. L. Parwana of the Association of All India Bank Employees 
appeared for the workmen. The aforesaid representatives verify the terms of 
settlement incorporated in the joint memorandum and seek an award in terms 
thereof. I accordingly make my award in terms of the memorandum of settle- 
ment, Annexure “A” in so far as the present dispute relatmg to the Oriental 
Bank of Commerce Limited is concerned and in terms of the ‘memorandum of 
settlement Annexure “B” in so far as the present dispute relating to the New 
Bank of India is concerned. These memoranda of settlement shall form part of 
the award. 


(Three pages;. 


Sd./- Anand Narain Kaul, 
Presiding Officer, 


The 15 th February, 1903, 


Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, 

Delhi. 



SEC. J(i()j THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 50, I963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 1033 


Annixure ‘A’ 

Memorandum of Settlement in an Industrial Dispute between the Management 
of the Oriental Bank of Commerce Ltd-, Delhi and their workmen , repre- 
sented by the Oriental Bank, of Compnerce Employees' Union, Delhi, other- 
wise than in conciliation proceedings, arrived at on the 29th January, 1983. 

Names of the Parties: 

Representing the Management: 

(1) Shri Raghu Raj, General Manager, Oriental Bank of Commerce Ltd., 

Delhi. 

(2) Shri Harbans Lai, Staff Supdt., Oriental Bank of Commerce Ltd., 

Delhi. 


Representing the Workmen: 

(1) Shri, Rajinder Sayal, President. 


9 £ a Ani ya ’■ P ™ ent j c ] Th c Oriental Bank of 

lo, P r^. } ll uwa rJ 1 ’J Jeneral Secretary. {-Commerce Employees' 


(3) Shri O. P. Verma, Jt. Secretary. 


J Union, Delhi. 


Short Recital of the Case 

An appeal being Appeal Petition (Civil) No. 694, of I960, is pending "in the 
Supreme Court of India between the Management of the Oriental Bank of Com- 
merce Ltd., and their workmen with regard to Dearness Allowance conseauent 
uP°n the upgradation of the Bank. Another dispute being case I D nT 259/62 
of 1962 is pending before the Central Government Industrial Tribunal Delhi 
between the management of the Oriental Bank of Commerce Ltd. and their 
workmen regarding adjustment of salaries consequent upon the upgradation of 
B “ lk as _ such. The parties are desirous of settling both these disputes 
amicably and after mutual negotiations, have come to the following settlement: 

Terms of the Settlement 

(1) Four graded increments being the difference jn the starting salary of the 
f c a ^, f0 , r S Banks for Clerical staff under the Sast£ Bank Award 

as modified shall be allowed to each such workman on the pay rolls of the Bank 
« “ January, 1957, and still in service, employed before 1st January 1957 
who was paid in accordance with such scales. y ' ' 

2. One graded increment being the difference in the starting salary of the 

scales for T> and C class Bank for subordinate staff under the Sastry Bank 
Award as modified shall be allowed to each such workman on the pay rolls of 
the Bank as on 1st January, 1957, and still in service, employed before 1st January 
1957, who was paid in accordance with such scales. y ’ 

3. The workmen on the Bank rolls as on 1st January, 1956 were under a 

mistaken belief that the Bank had been upgraded to class' V Bank as from 1st 
January 1956 instead of from 1st January, 1957, as per the provisions 0 f the 
Sastry Bank Award as modified, allowed increments as from 1st January 1956 
for raising their basic salary to the starting salary in the scales for a ‘C’ class 
Bank in different Areas under the Sastry Bank Award as modified. In their case 
the number of increments allowed as such shall be reduced while adjusting their 
salary as on 1st January, 1957, as per paras 1 and 2 above. J g 

.J, Basic salary of each such workman as referred to in paras 1, 2 and 3 above 
ahall be further re-adjusted from 1st January, 1957, onwards by allowing regular 

51st e DeMmter Iwf 5 ' alIowed to him during, the periord 1st January, 1957 to 

5 T Ba ! ic j salai 7 of each such workman as referred to in para 4, above shall be 
re-adjusted as from 1st January, 1962, in the scales allowed under the ‘Desai 
Bank Award and the difference in the emoluments adjusted In the scales of Desai 
Award during 1962, and paid shall be worked out, 

6. The workmen have voluntarily foregone the amount payable to them con- 
sequent upon the readjustment of their salary In accordance with paras 1, 2 3 4 
and 5 above for the period: from 1st January, 1957 to 30th September, 19Sk and 
no payment for ihe said period (1st January, 1957 to 30th September, I960) shall 
be claimed by them nor any amount paid by the Bank for that period. 

, J. The amount payable to each workman on re-adjustment as per paras 
1, 13,4 and 5 above for the period from 1st October, 1959 to 31st December, 1962, 
shall be worked out. 



1034 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH SO, 1963/CHAITRA 9, 1883 


[PA R r II- 


8, Dearness Allowance on the scales awarded to ‘C’ class Banks as laid down 
in para 109 tor the Clerical Stall and para 112 for the Subordinate staff of the 
decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal on Sastry Bank Award as modified 
shall be allowed to each workman on the Bank rolls and still in service who was 
being paid the Dearness Allowance in accordance with the Sastiy Bank Award 
as modified as on 1st October, 1958, for the period 1st October, 1959 to 30th 
September, 1960, after making adjustment for the dearness allowance already paid 
to him by the Bank during that period, The workmen also give up all claims, 
if any, for the period before 1st October, 1959, in this respect. The Dearness 
Allowance as provided under this para Is already being paid wiLh effect from 
1st October, 1960. 


9. Dearness allowance on the scales referred to in para 3 above on the in- 
creased portion of the salary on its adjustment in terms of para 4 above shall be 
allowed to each such workman for the period from 1st October, 1960, to 31st 
December, 1961. 

10. The difference in Dearness allowance payable to each workman as per 
the provisions of the Desai Bank Award for the period from 1st January, 1962, 
to 31st December, 1962, on consequential re- adjustment of his salary as on 31st 
December, 1961, after having been adjusted in accordance with the para 4 above 
shall be worked out. 


11. The amount payable to each workman in accordance with paras 7, 8, 9 
and 10 shall be totalled up and the same shall be paid as under: — 

(a) 50 per cent by 31st March, 1963. 

(b) 30 per cent by 31st January, 1964, 

(c) 20 per cent by 31st January, 1965. 


12. No interest is to be paid to any workman on the amount of arrears in 
respect of the adjustment of the salary payable in accordance with paras 1, 2, 3, 
4, 5 and 7 above or In respect of the Dearness allowance payable In accordance 
with paras 8, 9 and 10 above. 

13. No payment shall be made to any workman in respect of travelling, Diem 
allowance, overtime, house rent allowance, Provident fund contributions by the 
workmen and the Bank and bonus on account of consequential Increase in the 
basic salary or the dearness allowance in accordance with paras 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 
» and 10 above for the period 1st January, 1957, to 31st December, 1961. 


14. A copy of this memorandum of Settlement shall be filed before the Supreme 
Court of India, in Special leave to Appeal Petition (Civil) No. 694, of 1960, 
entitled "The Oriental Bank of Commerce Ltd,, vermis. The workmen of the 
Oriental Bank of Commerce Ltd., as represented by the Oriental Bank of Com- 
merce Employees’ Union, Delhi” and the case got settled on these terms. 


15, A copy of this memorandum of Settlement shall also be filed before the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi In case I/D. No, 259/62, of 1962, 
entitled "The Oriental Bank of Commerce Ltd., versus Their orkmen as repre- 
sented by the Oriental Bank of Commerce Employees’ Union, Delhi” on the next 
date of hearing fixed for 30th January 1963, and the case got settled on these 
terms. 


Sd./- IUchtj Raj, 
General Manager. 

29-1-63 

Sd./- Haebans Lal, 
"Staff Supdt. 

29-1-63. 


(1) Sd./- Rajindeh Sayal, 

(2) Sd./- K. A. Ahluivalta, 

29-1-63. 

(3) Sd./- O. P. Verma, 

29-1-63 


Witnesses: 

1. Sd./- Jag an Nath Acjarwai, 

C/o, Oriental Bank of Commerce Ltd., 
Head Office, Delhi 
29-1-63. 

2. Sd,/- L. D, Khattar, 

C/o, Oriental Bank of Commerce Ltd., 
Head Office, Delhi. 

29-1-63. 



Sec. 3(ii)j 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, I963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 


1035 


Annexure “B” 

Memorandum o} Settlement in an Industrial Dispute heiicc’n the Manage- 
ment of the New Bank of India Ltd., New Delhi, and their u orkmen, 
represented by the Neio Bank of India Employee.*' Union. Delhi 
otherwise than in the conciliation proceedings, arrived at on 14th 
February, 1903. 


Names or the Parties: 

Representing the Management : 

(1) Shri H. L. Bahl, General Manager. \ _ . . . 

(2) Shn T. R. Tuli, Secretary. J Bank of Indla Limited. 

Representing the workmen: 

(1) Shri Balrai Krishan Chopra, President. I New Bank of India E mployces’ 

(2) Shri Kapa Dev, Bhandan, Secretai-y. /Union, Delhi. 

Short Recital of the Case 

An appeal being appeal Petition (Civil) No. 695 of I960, is pending in the 
Supreme Court of India between the Management of the New Bank of India Ltd., 
and. their workmen with regard to Dearness Allowance, consequent upon the 
UDgradation of the Bank in disput ■. Another dispute being case I. D No. 259 of 
1062, is pending before the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi between 
the management of the New Bank of India Ltd., and their workmen regarding ad- 
justment of salaries consequent upon the upgradation of the Bank as such. The 
parties are desirous of settling both these disputes amicably and alter mutual 
negotiations, have come to the following settlement; — 

Terms of the Settlement 

(1) As many graded increments, subject to maximum of 4, being the difference 
in the starting salary of the scales for ‘D' and ‘C’ class Banks for Cerical Staff 
as laid down in para 109 of the decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal on the 
Sastry Award as modified, shall be allowed to each such workman on the pay rolls 
of the Bank as on 1st January, 1959 and still in service and employed before 1st 
January, 1959, who was paid in accordance with such scales. The increase in Basic 
Salary effected by the Bank with effect from 1st January, 1959, in consequence of 
the upgradation of the Bank to ‘C’ Class shall be set off out of the Increase to be 
effected under this para. 

(2) One graded increment being the difference in the starting salary of the 
scales for ‘D’ & ‘C’ Class Banks for subordinate staff as laid down in para 111 of 
the decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal on the Sastry Bank Award as modified 
shall be allowed to each such workman on the pay rolls of the Bank as on 1st Jan- 
uary 1959 and still in service and employed before 1st January 1959 who was paid 
In accordance with such scales. The Increase In Basic Salary effected by the Bank 
with eilect from 1st January 1959 In consequence of the upgradation of Bank to ‘C 
Class shall he set off out of the Increase to be effected under this para. 

(3) Basic Salary of each such workman as referred to In paras 1 & 2 above, 
shall be further re-adjusted from 1st January 1959 onwards by allowing regular 
Increments as already allowed to him during the period 1st January 1959 to 31st 
December 1961: 

Provided, however, the Basic Salary of the workmen shall, In no case, cross the 
ceiling limit of the scales as laid down in paras 109 and 111 of the Labour Appellate 
Tribunal decision on the Sastry Bank Award as modified, for the clerical and 
subordinate staff respectively, as a result of adjustment of the Basic Salary as 
referred to In paras 1, 2 & 3 above. 

(4) Basic Salary of each such workman as referred to in para 3 above shall be 
re-adjusted as from 1st January 1962 in the scales allowed under the "Desal Bank 
Award” and the difference In the emoluments adjusted In the scales of Desai Award 
during 1962 shall be worked out, 

(5) The workmen have voluntarily foregone amount payable consequent upon 
the re-adjustment of their salary In accordance with paras 1. 2, 3 & 4 above for 
the period from 1st January 1959 to 31st August 1959 and no payment for the said 
period (1st January 1959 to 31st August 1.959) shall be claimed by them nor any 
amount paid by the Bank for that period. 

respect of the adjustment, of the salary payable in accordance with paras 1, 2, 3, 4 
& 4 above for the period from 1st September 1959 to 31st December 1962 shall be 
worked out. 



1036 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 1%3/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Part II- 


(7) Dearness Allowance on the scales awarded to ‘C’ Class Banks as laid down, 
in para 109 for the Clerical Stall and para 112 for the Subordinate Staff of the 
decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal on Sastry Bank Award as modified shall 
be allowed to each workman on the Bank rolls as on 1st January 1959 and still in 
service who was being paid the Dearness Allowance in accordance with the Sastry 
Award as modified for the period 1st September 1959 to 30th September 1900 after 
making adjustment for the Dearness Allowance, exclusive of Special Dearness 
Allowance, already paid to him by the Bank for that period, The workmen also 
give up all claims, if any, for the period before 1st September 1959 in this respect. 

(8) Dearness allowance on the scales referred to In para 7 above on the increased 
portion of the salary on its adjustment in terms of para 3 above shall be allowed 
to each such workman for the period from 1st September 1959 to 31st December 1981. 

(9) The difference in Dearness Allowance payable to each workman as per the 
provisions of the Desai Bank Award for the period 1st January 1962 to 31st Decem- 
ber 1962 on consequential readjustment of his salary as on 31st December 1961 after 
having been adjusted in accordance with the para 3 above shall be worked out. 

(101 Special Dearness Allowance previously paid by the Bank was adjusted by 
the Bank while paying the increased Dearness Allowance with effect from 1st Septem- 
ber 1960 and the Temporary Adjustment Allowance paid by the Bank was set off 
out of the salary adjusted in terms of the Desai Award with effect from 1st January 
1962. It is clearly understood that the workmen agree to this adjustment and/or 
set off of the Special Dearness Allowance and the Temporary Adjustment Allowance 
only from the dates as aforesaid in this para, and the bank agrees not to adjust 
and/or set off the said allowances for the periods, prior to the respective dates 
mentioned in this para. 

(11) The amount payable to each workman in accordance with paras 6, 7, 8 & 9 
shall be totalled up and the net amount so arrived at shall be paid latest by 10th 
April 1963. 

(12) No interest Is to be paid to any workman on the amount of arrears in 
respect of the adjustment of the salary payable in accordance with paras 1, 2, 3, 4 
& 6 above or in respect of the Dearness Allowance payable in accordance with the 
paras 7, 8 & 9 above. 

(13) No payment shall be made to any workman In respect of Travelling & Diem 
Allowance, Overtime, House Rent Allowance, Provident Fund contributions by the 
workmen and the Bank, and Bonus on account of consequential increase In the 
Basic Salary and/or the Dearness Allowance In accordance with paras 1 to 9 above 
for the period from 1st January 1959 to 31st December 1961. 

(14) A copy of this memorandum of Settlement shall be filed before the Supreme 
Court of India, in Special Leave to Appeal Petition (Civil) No. 695 of 1900 entitled 
“The New Bank of India Limited, Versus the Workmen of the New Bank of India 
Limited, as represented by the New Bank of India Employees’ Union, Delhi” and 
the case got settled on these terms. 


(15) A copy of this memorandum of settlement shaL &iso be filed before the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi in case I/D No. 259 of 1962, entitled 
“The New Bank of India Limited, vs. their Workmen as represented by the New 
Bank of India Employees' Union, Delhi’’ on the next date of hearing fixed for 14th 
February 1963 and case got settled on these terms. 


For the New Bank of India Ltd., 

(1) (Sd.) H. L. Bahl, 

, General Manager. 

(2) (Sd.) T. R. Tuu, 

Secretary. 


For the New Bank of India 
Employees’ Union, Delhi. 

(1) (Sd,) Balraj Kris han Chopra, 

President. 

(2) (Sd.) Kapal Dev Bhandari, 

Secretary. 
[No. 56(10) /62-LRI V.] 



Sw 3(ii)J THE GA7ETTE OF INDIA . MARCH 30, 1963/CHAIJ RA 9, 1885 


New Delhi, the 25th March 1903 

S.O, 926. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
m relation to the Legal and General Assurance Society Limited, Bombay, and 
their workmen 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, 

BOMBAY 

Reference No. CGIT-39 of 1962 

Barthes: 

Management in relation to the Legal and General Assurance Society Ltd, 
Bombay 


AND 

its workmen represented by the General Insurance Employees’ Union, 
Bombay. 


Present: 

Shrl Salim M. Merchant, Presiding Officer, 

Appearances: 

For the employers ■ Shri L C Joshi, Labour Adviser, Shri S V Mokashi, 
Deputy Labour Adviser, Bombay Chamber of Commerce and Indus- 
try and Shri D. I H. D’Souza, Manager of the Company, 

For the workmen. Shri K S B Pillal, General Secretary, General Insur- 
ance Employees’ Union. 

State: Maharashtra. Industry: General Insurance 

Bombay, the 18th March, 1963 
AWARD 

Upon a joint application of the parties dated 29th September 1902, the Central 
Government bv the Ministry of Labour & Employment’s Order No 74(7)/62- 
LRIV, dated 25th October 1962, made under section 10(2) of the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act, 1947 (Act XIV of 1947), was pleased to refer the industrial dispute 
between them, in respect of the subject matter specified in the following 
schedule, to me for adjudication: — 

Schedule 

“Whether the following demand of the Union is justified and if so to 
what relief they are entitled: — 

Demand: The Society shall introduce gratuity provision at the rate of 
one month’s salary with allowance for each year of service at the 
time of retirement, disability, death, resignation or termination 
of service by the Society as the case may be. For the purpose of 
calculation of gratuity the last salary with allowance drawn by 
the employee should be taken into account ” 

2. After the order of reference was made the General Secretary of the General 
Insurance Employees' Union, Bombay (hereinafter referred to as the union) filed 
its written statement of claim on 26th January, 1963 and the company filed its 
written statement m reply dated 5th March 1963, and the dispute was thereafter 
heard by me on the 12th and 14th of March 1903 The demand for gratuity has 
been made in respect of the employees in the company’s Bombay office, who, at 
present are only 29 in number, It is admitted that the Bombay office was started 
m 1948 and it attends to the business of the Pandyan Insurance Co. Ltd , Madurai 
which arrangement is reciprocal It is admitted that m the Pandyan Insurance 
Company’s case there was an award made by the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal at Madras granting the workmen gratuity. The award was made in 
terms of a scheme of gratuity voluntarily agreed to between the management and 
its workmen (See Government of India Gazette dated 15th August 1959 page 1997). 

3. It apears that discussions were held between 29th August 1961 and 15th 

S^nt^mVigir IQfil nn a nhartoT 1 r\f rlomnnHe Viv tT\*» irnirm Tn thf* 



1038 THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : MARCH 30. 19G3/CHA1TRA 9, 1885 [Purr IT- 


minutes, dated 20th September 1961 
A to the Union's written statement, 
follows: — 


of those discussions, which form annexure 
on the question of gratuity, it was stated as 


Demand No. 8. 

(1) Provident Fund.— The Society to institute a Provident Fund as from 1st 

January 1962 with contribution of 8-1/3 per cent each on basic 
salaries by the staff and the society. A suitable Provident Fund 
Scheme to be drawn up by the Society in consultation with the staff. 

(2) Gratuity.— (i) (a) In the event of the death of an employee whilst in 

the service of the Society nnd/or retirement owing to permanent total 
Incapacity, the Society will pay a gratuity of one month’s basic salary 
ror each completed year or s-rvicc, subiect to a maximum of 16 
months basic salary. In the event of death the gratuity will be paid 
to the legal heirs, executors or representatives of the deceased. 

(b) In the event of retirement of an employee on or after his reaching the 
age of 55, the Society will pay half month’s basic salary for each 
completed year of service subject to a maximum of 15 months basic 
salary. 

Cii) In the event of voluntarv retirement or resignation or termination of 
service of an employee by the Society for any reason other than 
misconduct, after ten vears of continuous service, the Society will pay 
half month’s basic salary for each completed year of service subject 
to a maximum of 15 months basic salary. 

(iiil Salary for the purpose of calculating gratuity shall be the last basic 
salary exclusive of dearness allowance and other allowances to which 
the employee was entitled during th“ twelve months immediately 
prior to the occurrence of the event entitling the employee to the pay- 
ment of gratuity. The number of years of service of an employee 
shall be calculated from the date of appointment to the permanent 
staff.” 


4. It has been urged on behalf of the management that those discussions were 
without prejudice but the union has pointed out that those minutes of discussions 
had been produced in the subsequent proceedings before the conciliation officer 
which had resulted in the settlement dated 10th September 1962 (Annexure ‘B’ 
to the union's statement of claim). Under that agreement the management agreed 
to refer the dispute relating to the union's demand for gratuity to adjudication by 
an Industrial Tribunal and thereafter this reference followed, 

5. It appears that prior to 1948 their was a provident fund scheme available to 
the emnlovees and in 1948 the amount accruing to the credit of each employee in 
the said Provident Fund scheme was, according to the company, with the consent 
of the workers transferred to a Pension and Lffe Assurance Scheme. However, it 
appears that later the union felt that scheme was not satisfactory and under clause 
8(1) of the settlement dated 10th September 1962 that scheme was abolished with 
effect from 31st December 1961. Clause 8(1) of the agreement of 10th September 
1962 (Sec annexur“ B to the union’s written statement) is in the following terms;— 

“The Pension Scheme would be discontinued with effect from 31st December 
1961 and no further contributions will be made either by the company" 
or the employees.” 

6. It appears that, thereafter, a provident fund scheme has been introduced with 
effect from 1st January 1902 whereby the employees and the company contribute 
an amount equivalent to 8-1/3 per cent of the basic salary of the employees. 
The rules of the provident fund scheme have not been formulated but it is 
admitted that contributions are being made and collected under that scheme at 
the rates stated above. 

7. It is admitted that on the pension and life insurance scheme coming to an 
end, the workmen arc to be paid back bv the Life Insurance Corporation the 
amount as computed by the Life Insurance Corporation as due to them. It appears 
that the management had made a substantial contribution towards that scheme, 
the amount of which was stated by the company to have been Es. 1,53,960. An 
arrangement has been arrived at by which the workers who were members of 
the pension and li f e insurance scheme, will be entitled to payment by the Life 
Insurance Cornoration of a certain life p nsion on their retiring from the company 
on attaining the age of 55 years, which is the superannuation age. The company 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, I963/CHAJTRA 0, 1885 


1039 


has filed a statement showing the paid up pension per annum which the workmen 
will stand to gain on attaining the age or 55 years and other particulars. It is 
agreed that the benefit which has enured and will enure in future by way of 
pension to the workmen on the abolition of the pension and life insurance scheme 
shall not be disturbed by the terms of the award herein. 

8. Shri L. C. Joshi, Labour Adviser to the Bombay Chamber of Commerce and 
Industry, appearing for the company has taken a very realistic approach to the 
demand" and he has argued that In any scheme of gratuity which may be awarded, 
the management must get some relief for the contribution which it had made 
under the pension and fife insurance scheme. Shri Pillai on the other hand has 
argued that the company should not get any relief on that account, as, if a contri- 
butory provident fund scheme had been in existence from the start i.e, from 
1948, the workmen would have been much better off under it than under the 
Pension and Life Insurance Scheme. He has also pointed out that the benefit of 
pension is not an assured one as no worker would be able to get the benefit until 
he has attained the age of 55 years in the service of the company. 

9. Both parties have made th'fir submission in detail on the provisions of the 
scheme of gratuity demanded by the Union. I am not satisfied that the union can 
claim gratuity in terms of its demand which is that gratuity should be paid at 
the rate of one month’s salary with allowance for each year of service at the time 
of retirement, disability, death, resignation or termination by the Society, as the 
case may be, and that for the purpose of calculation of gratuity the last salary 
with all allowances drawn by the employee, should be taken into account. In my 
opinion the scheme of gratuity which could properly be awarded in this case is 
the scheme of gratuity which had been formulated in the minutes dated 20th 
September 1981 of the discussions that took place on the Union’s demand for 
gratuity (See annexure ‘A’ to the union’s written statement). The union has 
referred to the schemes of gratuity which have been awarded in a large number 
of general insurance companies in Eombay and after an anxious consideration of 
those schemes and bearing in mind that the workers are to benefit by the abolition 
of the pension and life insurance scheme, I think that the following scheme of 
gratuity would be the proper one to award. I consider that the scheme of gratuity 
which I am awarding would, in the facts and circumstances of the case, be 
acceptable to both parties. I am well aware that in the large majority of the 
schemes of gratuity hi force in General Insurance Companies in Bombay, the 
maximum amount of gratuity is limited to 15 months’ basic wages. I am, how- 
ever, limiting the maximum amount of the gratuity to 124 months’ basic wages in 
view of the benefit which the workmen will receive under the pension and life 
insurance scheme. I am not impressed by Shri Joshi’s argument that the scheme 
should not be made retrospective from the dote each of the existing workmen 
joined the service of the company. It has in this connection to be remembered 
that not all workmen in the service of the company had joined the pension and 
life insurance scheme. On that score I accept Shri Pillai’s contention that had 
the workmen the benefit of a contributory provident fund scheme from the 
beginning they would have generally been better off. I have, therefore, decided 
to award the benefit of gratuity from the date the existing workmen joined the 
service of the company. I am also satisfied that the company’s present financial 
position and Its future prospects are sound enough to justify the grant of the 
modified scheme of gratuity which I am awarding. I must also make it clear that 
I am limiting the maximum amount of gratuity payable to 124 months the basic 
wages, because of the benefit which the existing workmen are to get under the 
Pension and Gratuity Scheme and this award, should, therefore, not be treated 
as a precedent for the General Insurance industry units at Bombay in general. 

10. On an anxious consideration of the submissions of the parties, I award the 
following scheme of gratuity: — 

(a) In the event of the death of an employee whilst in the service of the 

Society and/or retireent owing to permanent total incapacity, the 
Society will pay a gratuitv of one month’s basic salary for each com- 
pleted year of service subject to a maximum of 12 J months’ basic 
salary. In the event of death the gratuity will be paid to the legal 
h°irs executors or representatives of the deceased employee. 

(b) In the event of retirement of an employee on or after his reaching the 

age of 55 years the Society will pay half month’s salary for each com- 
pleted year of service subject to a maximum of 124 months’ basic 
salary. 

fc) In the event of voluntary retirement or resignation or termination of 
service of an employee by the Society for any reason other than mis- 
conduct after ten years of continuous service the Society will pay 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 1 9G3 / C’HAITRA 9, 1885 [Part tt- 


1040 


half month's basic salary for each completed year of service subject 
to a maximum of 12 i month’s basic salary. 

Salary for the purpose of calculating gratuity shall be the last basic salary 
exclusive of dearness allowance and other allowances to which the employee was 
entitled during the twelve months immediately prior to the occurrence of the event 
entitling the employee to the payment of gratuity. The number of years of service 
of an employee shall be calculated from the date of appointment to the permanent 
staff. 

The benefit of the scheme of gratuity will be granted retrospectively from the 
date each of the existing employees joined the Bombay office of the Society and 
the future employees of the company will get the benefit from the date of their 
joining the service of the company. 

Those who have ceased to be in the service of the company on the date this 
Scheme of Gratuity comes into force will not be entitled to the benefit of gratuity, 
under it. 

Those employees who are dismissed for misconduct which has caused financial 
loss to the company shall forfeit an amount of gratuity equivalent to the amoun 
of the financial loss caused by them to the company. 

The scheme of gratuity shall come into force from the date this award becomes 
enforceable. 

I, therefore, make my award in terms aforesaid. 

(Sd.) Salim M. Merchant, 

Presiding Officer, 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay. 

[No 74(7)/62-LRIV.] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 22 nd March 1963 

S.O. 927. — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers In relation to the Godavari Khanl Mines of 
Messrs. Singarenl Collieries Company Limited and their workmen in respect of 
the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
<d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Dr. Mir 
Sladat All Khan as the Presiding Officer with headquarters at Somajiguda, 
Hyderabad, and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial 
Tribunal, 


Schedule 

Whether the dismissal with effect from the 20th September, 1902 of Shri R. 
Ramaswami Naidu who was working at the Canteen at Godavari Khani, by the 
management of the Godavari Khani Mines of the Singarenl Collieries Company 
Limited was justified? If not, to what relief is he entitled and from what date? 

[No. 7/1/63-LRII.] 


S.O. 928. — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the North Bhagatdlh Colliery 
Post Office Dhansar, District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 


And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 1963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 


IO41 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the termination of the services of Shri Ram Karan Bhar, Coal cutter, 
by the management of North Bhagatdih Colliery, P.O, Dhansar, District Dhanbad, 
with effect from the 15th December, 1952, was justified? If not, to what relief is 
he entitled? 


[No. 2/8/63-LRII.] 
G. JAGANNATHAN, Under Secy. 

New Delhi, the 25th March 196 3 

S.O. 929. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, m the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Toonka Mica Mine of Messrs. Duduwala and Company, Bhil- 
wara and their workmen, 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DELHI 
Present: , 

Shri Anand Narain Kaul, Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi. 

The 25th February, 1963. 

Reference I.D. No. 292 of 1962 
Between 

The employers in relation to the Toonka Mica Mine of Messrs. Duduwala 
and Company, Bhilwara, 


AND 

Their workmen. 

No appearance on either side. 

AWARD 

Bv Government Order No. S.O. 20/13/62-LRII, dated the 22nd October, 1962, 
the Central Government referred to this Tribunal, for adjudication, an indus- 
trial dispute, existing between the employers in relation to the Toonka Mica 
Mine of Messrs. Duduwala and Company, Bhilwara and their workmen in res- 
pect of the matters specified as follows in the Schedule sub-joined to the 
order: — 


Schedule 

Whether the action of Messrs. Duduwala and Company, Head Office, Bhil- 
wara, Owners of Toonka Mine, Bhilwara District, in terminating 
the services of Shri Birdhi Chand Sharma, shift-in-charge, with 
effect from 5th May, 1962 was justified? If not, to what relief is the 
workman entitled? 

2. Notices were issued to the Secretary, Rajasthan Mineral and Stone Quarries 
Mazdoor Union, Bhilwara to file a statement of claim by the 29th November, 
1962. No statement of claim was, however, received up to 28th December, where- 
upon a notice was issued on 31st December, to the Secretary of the aforesaid 
Union, to show cause by 22nd January, 1963 why a no dispute award be not 
passed in the absence of a statement of claim. In spite of this notice no state- 
ment of claim was received nor was any cause shown for the failure to file it. 
A fresh notice was again issued on the 8th February to the Union Secretary, 
directing him to file a statement of claim by the 22nd February coupled with 
a warning that otherwise a no dispute award will be passed. Service of the 
fresh notices was duly effected be registered post (acknowledgement due) and 
also personally by the Labour Inspector, Bhilwara to whom also a copy of the 



1042 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 196J/CIIA1TRA 9, 1885 [Part II- 


notice had been sent tor service by way of abundant precaution. No statement 
of claim on behalf of the workmen has, however, been received till today. It 
appears, therefore, that the workmen are no longer interested in the dispute 
and I have no alternative but to pass a no dispute award. I accordingly pass 
a no dispute award in the matter. 


(Two pages). 


The 25 th February, 1963. 


Sd./- Anand Nara:n Kaul, 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

Delhi. 


[No. 20/13/62-LRII.] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 18 th March 1963 

8.0. 930. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to M/s. Jaipur Udyog Limited, 
Sawalmadhopur, Rajasthan, and their workmen employed in Phalodi Quarries 
in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 7A and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with 
Shri Mohd. Abdul Razzaque, B.Sc., LL.B., (Retired Judge of Madhya Pradesh 
High Court), as the Presiding Officer, with headquarters at New Moti Bungalow, 
46, Mahatma Gandhi Road, Indore City and refers the said dispute for adjudica- 
tion to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

Schedule 

Whether Shri Hari Ram, Buldozer helper working as acting buldozer 
operator with effect from the 5th October, 1960 in the Phalodi 
Quarries should be designated as buldozer operator and given the 
grade of the post? If not, to what relief is he entitled? 

[No. 22/3/63-LRIL] 

5.0. 931. — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Kamptee Colliery of 
Messrs. Oriental Coal Company Limited, P.O. Kamptee, District Nagpur and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (dl of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under Section 7A .of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the dismissal of Shri Gurudeo Singh, S/o Shri Bachnn Singh, 
Electrical Fitter Hclncr by the management of the Oriental Coal 
Company Limited, Kamptee Colliery with effect from the 24th 
January^ 1963 was justified? If not, to what relief is he entitled: 

[No. 3/1/63-LRII.] 


New Delhi , the 20th March 1963 

S.O. 932. — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Khas Karanpura Colliery, 
P.O. Patratu and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed; 



Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCB SO, 193S/CHA1TRA 9, 1885 f 


And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 19471, the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

1. Whether the action of the management of Khas Karanpura Colliery in 

verbally stopping from work Shri Joseph Mmz, an Attendance Clerk 
with effect lrom the 22nd November, 1962 and not paying him wages 
through regular wages-sheets was justified? 

2. If not, to what relief Shri Joseph Minz is entitled? 

[No. 2/11/63-LRII.] 
i A. L. HANDA, Under Secy. 


CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 21s£ March 1963 

S.O. 933. — PWA/14/Mines/G2.— In the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour and Employment, No, S.O. 381-PWA/14/Mines/l/03, 
dated the 31st January, 1903, published at page 459 in Part II Section 3 (ii) of the 
Gazette of India, dated the 9th February, 1963, for the words and figures “item 
No, IV” read “item No. VI”. 


[No. Fac. 535/13/62.] 
G. D. GAIHA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 21st March 1963 

S.O. 934.— In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 10 of the Cinemato- 
graph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government is pleased to appoint 
Shri Bachoolal Laxman Kathewadi as an Assistant Regional Officer, Central Board 
of Film Censors, Bombay, in a temporary capacity with effect from 12th March, 
1963, until further orders vice Shri R. S. Saigal, 

[No. 2/15/62-FC.] 
S. PADMANABHAN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 21st March 1963 

S.O. 935. — The following draft of certain rules further to amend the Eggs 
Grading and Marking Rules, 1937, which the Central Government proposes to 
make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Pro- 
duce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937, (1 of 1937), is published, as required by 
the said section, for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby 
and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on 
or after the 30th April, 1963. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date aforesaid will be considered by the Cen- 
tral Government. 


Draft Rules 

1. These rules may be called the Eggs Grading and Marking (Amendment) 
Rules, 1963. 

2. In rule 4 of the Eggs Grading and Marking, Rules 1937, (hereinafter referred 
to as the said rules), for the expression “i inch diameter” the expression ‘T3mm. 
(1 inch) diameter” shall be substituted. 




1044 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 1963/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Part It- 


3. In Schedule 1 to the said rules, (i) in column 2, for the entries “56.699, 
49.012, 42,524 and 28.350” the entries “55, 50, 40 and 30” shall respectively be 
substituted; 

(ii) in column 3 for the expression “three eighths of an inch” the expression 
“10 mm. (three eighths of an inch)” shall be substituted; 

(iii) in column 4, for the entries' “70:874, 56.699, 49.612' and 42.524” the 

entries “70, 55, 60 and 40” shall respectively be substituted; 

(iv) in the foot note for the expression “1.722 grams” the expression “2 
grams” shall be substituted. 

[No. F. 17-7/63-AM.] 
V. S. NIGAM, Under Secy. 


(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 25th March 1963 
In the matter of Charitable Endowments Act, 1890 

AND 

In the matter of “Thomas Reed Bell Memorial Fund” in connection with the 
Bombay Forest College, Dharwar 

S.O. 936. — Whereas an application has been made to the Central Government 
by the Chief Conservator of Forests, Maharashtra (successor in office of the Chief 
Conservator of Forests, former Bombay Presidency), the present Administrator of 
the endowment called the “Thomas Reed Bell Memorial Fund,” requesting the 
Government to modify the scheme framed under the Notification of the former 
Government of Bombay (Revenue Department) No. 5207, dated the 25th August 
1922, so as to provide that the income accruing from the said Fund may be 
administered by the President, Forest Research Institute and Colleges, Dehradun, 
for the time being, instead of by the Chief Conservator of Forests, State of 
Maharashtra, for the time being; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the 
Charitable Endowments Act, 1890 ( 6 of 1890), the Central Government, with the 
concurrence of the Chief Conservator of Forests, State of Maharashtra, hereby 
modifies the said scheme to the extent specified in the Schedule hereto annexed, 
and under sub-section (3) of the said section appoints the date of publication of 
this Notification os the date on which the modification shall come into operation: — 

The Schedule 

In the said Scheme, for paragraph 2 the following paragraph shall be substi- 
tuted, namely: — 

“2. The income accruing from the said Fund shall be administered by the 
President, Forest Research Institute and Colleges, Dehradun, for the 
time being”. 

[No. F. 3-65/61-F.] 
T. S. KRISHNAMURTI, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 25 th March 1963 

S.O. 937. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the 
method of recruitment to the posts of Director of Agriculture and Deputy Director 
of Agriculture in the Agriculture Department of Manipur Administration, 
namely: — • 

1. Short title.— These rules may be called the Manipur Agriculture Department 
(Class I and II posts) Recruitment Rules, 1963. 

2. Application.— These rules shall apply to the posts of Director of Agriculture 

and Deputy Director of Agriculture in the Agriculture Department of Manipur 
Administration. i 



Sec, 3(ii)j THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : MARCH SO, 19(58/ CHAtTRA 0, 1335 


1045 


3. Number of posts. Classification and scale of pay— The number of posts, 

classification and the scale of pay attached, to the posts specified in column 1 of 
the Schedule hereto annexed shall be as specified against them in columns 2 to 4 
thereof. 

4. Method of recruitment, age limit and other qualifications. — The method of 
recruitment to the said posts, age limit, qualifications, and other matters connected 
therewith, shall be as specified in columns 5 to 13 of the Schedule aforesaid. 

Provided that the upper age limit prescribed for direct recruitment may be 
relaxed in the ease of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, 
displaced persons and other special categories, in accordance with the orders issued 
from time to time by the Government of India. 

5. Disqualifications. — (a) No person, who has more than one wife living or 
who having a spouse living, marries in any case in which such marriage is void 
by reason of its taking place during the life time of such spouse, shall be eligible 
for appointment to any of the said posts. 

(b) No woman, whose marriage is void by reason of the husband having a 
wife living at the time of such marriage, or who has married a person who has a 
wife living at the time of such marriage, shall be eligible for appointment to any 
of the said posts: 

Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that there are special 
grounds for so ordering, exempt any person from the operation of this rule. 



1046 THE GAifettE Of INDiA : MARCH 30, 1963/CHAltRA 9 , 1833 [Pam 11 - 


SCHE 


Name of po»t No. of 

Classifi- 

Scale of pay Whether 

Age limit 

Educational and 

posts 

cation. 

selection 

for 

other qualifications 


post or 

direct 

required for direct 

• 


non- 

selection 

post. 

recruits. 

recruits. 

I 2 

3 

4 5 

6 

7 


I. Director of 
Agriculture. 


2. Deputy Direc- 
tor of Agri- 
culture. 


1 


2 


Rs. 

General 600—40 — 

Central xooo. 
Service 
Class I. 


Selection 45 years 
and 
below 
(Relaxa- 
ablc for 
Govern- 
ment 
servant®. 


Essential : 

o') B.Sc. (Agricul- 
ture) of a recog- 
nised University. 

(ii) Experience of 
Agricultural work 
including atleast 
five years ’ expe- 
rience as District 
Agricultural Offi- 
cer. 

(Qualifications rela- 
xabl* at Commis- 
sion’s discretion in 
the case of candi- 
dates otherwis 
well qalified.) 

Desirable : 

M.Sc. (Agriculture) 
or a higher degree. 


General 

250 — 25 — Selection 

35 years 

Essential : 

Central 

400 EB- 

and 

(t) B.Sc. (Agricul- 

Service 

25—450— 

below 

ture) of a recog- 

Class II 

30 — 600 — 

(Relax- 

nised University or 

Non- 

EB — 30 — 

able for 

equivalent. 

Minis- 

750. 

Govern- 


terial. 

ment 

servants). 

(ii) About three years 
experience in Agri- 
cultural and Ex- 
tension work in a 


responsible ca- 
pacity. 


(iii) Conversant with 
experiments tech- 
niques for laying 
out field experi- 
ments. 

(Qualifications re- 
laxable at Com- 
mission’s discre- 
tion in the case of 
candidates other- 
wise wel] quali- 
fied.) 


Desirable : 

(0 Knowledge. 

r of Manipur. 
(ii) Postgraduate de- 
gree in Agriculture, 



Sm, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 1963/CHAITRA 9, 1883 1047 


DUI E 


Whether age 
End educa- 
tional quali- 
fications 
prescribed 
for the direct 
recruits will 
apply in the 
case of pro- 
moters. 


Period Method of recruit- 
of ment whether by di- 
probation* rect recruitment or 
if any by promotion or 

transfer and percen- 
tage of the vacancies 
to be filled by various 
methods. 


In case of recruit- 
ment by promo- 
tion transfer, 
grades from which 
promotion to be 
made. 


If a Depart- 
mental pro- 
motion 
Committee 
exists what 
is its com- 
position. 


Circumstances 
in which 
U.P.S.C. is to 
be consulted in 
making re- 
cruitment. 


n 


12 


13 


Yes. 


Two 

years 


Bypromotion failing? Promotion : 
which by deputation [[Deputy Director 
failing both by di- of Agriculture 
rect recruitment. (with about five 
years service in 
the grade), i 


Clas s I As required 
Depart under the 

mental rules. 

Promotion 
Committee, 


Deputation 

Officer holding 
analogous posts 
under Central 
or State Govern- 
ments. 


yes 


Two By promotion failing Promotion: Class II As required 

which by deputa- Agricultural Offi- Departmcn- under the 
years. tion failing both by cers. tal Promo- rules, 

direct recruitment. tion. 

(with about three Committee, 
years service in 
the grade). 

Deputation) 

Officers holding 
analogous post® 
under Central or 
State Govern- 
ments. 


[No. 21-17/62-U.T.] 
. . S. R MOHONI, Under Secy. 




IO 48 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 30, 196S/CHAITRA 9, 1885 [Part. II-Sec. 3(H)] 


(Department of Agriculture) 

(Indian Council of Agricultural Research) 

New Delhi, the 19th March 1963 

8.0. 933. — Under Section 4(x) of the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923 (14 of 1923), 
the Central Government are pleased to nominate the following persons to be 
members of the Indian Central Cotton Committee, Bombay for a period of one 
year with effect from 1st April, 1963: — 

1. Shri Neville N. Wadia, Bombay Dyeing & Manufacturing Co., Bombay. 

2. Shri Bharat Ram, 14, Sardar Patel Road, New Delhi-21. 

3. Dr. V, K. R. V. Rao, No. 6, Cavalry Lines, Delhi. 

4. Shri Chunilal B. Mehta, Chunilal Mehta & Co. Ltd., Yusaf Building, 43, 

Mahatma Gandhi Road, Bombay-1. 

5. Shri R. D. Mehra, 6315, Beriwala Bagh, Pul Bangash, Delhi. 

6. Dr. M. D. Patel, Director, Institute of Agriculture, Anand. 

7. Shri R. Doraiswamy, Textile Commissioner, Bombay. 

8. The Economic & Statistical Adviser to the Government of India, Ministry 

of Food and Agriculture, New Delhi. 

9. Shri M. B. Somani, Advocate, Akola. 

10. Shri Chimanlal B. Parikh, 28, Apollo Street, Fort, Bombay. 

11. Shri R D. Shah, Cotton Adviser, Office of the Textile Commissioner, 

Bombay. 

12. The Joint Secretary (Finance), Ministry of Food and Agriculture, New 

Delhi. 

13. Sardar Ujjal Singh, 12, Curzon Road, New Delhi. 

14. Sardar Satwant Singh, Nasirpur Farm, P.O., Bahadur Garh Fort, Patiala, 

Punjab. 

15. Shri Jehangir P, Patel, c/o M/s. Patel Cotton Company Private Ltd., 

Volkart Building, Graham Road, Ballard Estate, Bombay-1. 

[No. 1-4/ 62-Com.III. ] 
N. K. DUTTA, Under Secy, 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS. 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1963 



