O 


Host222 


HOGISTInco ma om 


GISTI . IO NO 0 - ) 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India on 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


# 87 
No . 8 ) 


pf fart, afate, 20 97471 , 1965 /65FT 1, 1886 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1963/PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
Separate paging is given to this part in order that it may be filled 

as a separate compilation 


मोटिस 

NOTICE 
नीचे लिखे भारत के असाधारण गजट 30 जनवरी 1965 तक प्रकाशित किए गए थे ---- 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the zoth January, 
1965 : 


Issue 


No. 


No. and Date 


Issued by 


21 - A S . Os. 379 - A , 379 - B , and 

379 - C , all dated 30th 
January , 1965 . 


22 S .O . 458 , 3rd 

1965. 


February, 


Ministry of Steel and Specifying a further one year 
Mines. 

from 30th January , 1965 
within which Government 
intends to acquire lando 

specified therein . 
Ministry of Infor - Approval of films specified 
mation and Broad - therein . 

caşting . 
Election Commis - Calling upon elected members 
sion , India , of the Legislative Assembly 

of Rajasthan to elect a person 
to fill a vacancy in thc 
Council of States caused by 
the resignation of Shri 


23 S . O . 459 , dated 5th Feb 

ruary , 1965. 


S. O . 460 , dated sth 

ruary , 1965. 


Feb 


Appointing dates etc. for the 

election referred to in S . O . 
459 Abovc . 


S . O , 461 , dated 

ruary , 1965 


5th Feb 


Designating the Secretary , 

Rajasthan Legislative As. 
sembly , to be the Returning 
Officer for the election re 


( 659 ) 


660 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


[PART II 


Issuc 
No. 


No, and Date 


Issued by 


Subject 


S . O . 462 , dated 5th 

ruiry , 1965. 


Fcb - 


Election Commis - Appointing the Deputy Sec 
sion India 

retary, Rajasthan Legislative 
Asseinbly , to assist the Re 
turning Officer, for the elec 
tion referred to in S . . 
459 above . 


24 


25 


$ . O . 463, dated 5th Feb 

f ixation of hours regarding 
ruary , 1965 . 

the election referred to in 

S . O . 459 above . 
S . O . 461, dited sth Feb - Ministry of Labour Specifying Shri Shantaram 
ruiry , 1965 . 

and Employment . s . Kantak , Mining Engincer , 

Department of Mincs , Gov 
crnment of Goa, Daman 
and Diu , to be the Iron Ore 

Mines Cess Commissioner , 
S . O . 465 , dated 8th Feb - Ministry of Infor- Approval of films specified 
ruary , 1965 . 

mation and Broad - therein . 

casting 
S , O . 466 , dated 8th Feh - Cabinet Secretariat . Amendments in the Govern 
ruary , 1965 . 

ment of India ( Allocation of 

Business ) Rules , 1961, 
S . O . 587, dated 9th Feb - Election Commis - Appointing Electoral and 
ruary , 1965. 

sion , India. 

Assistant Electoral Regis 
tration Officers for some 
Parliamentary 

consti 
tuencies of Delhi. 


26 


27 


ऊपर लिखे असाधारण राजपत्रों की प्रतियां प्रकाशन प्रबन्धक , सिविल लाइन्स , दिल्ली के नाम 
मांगपत्र भेजने पर भेज दी जाएंगी । मांगपत्र प्रबन्धक के पास इन राजपत्रों के जारी होने की तारीख से 
10 feat Here TV SR atleti 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will he supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes. 


HITT1 983- 90 (ii) 

PART II — Section 3 – Sub - section (ii) 
(रक्षामंत्रालय को छोड़कर ) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयों और ( संष पात्र प्रशासन को छोदकर ) 
केन्द्रीय प्राधिकारियों द्वारा जारी किए गए निधिक आदेश और अधिसूचनाएं । 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 8th February 1965 
8 . 0 . 592 . — In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People 
Act , 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the order pronounced on 
the 20th January , 1965 by the Election Tribunal, Ramanathapuram at Madurai. 


SEC . 8( li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 /PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


661 


BEFORE THE ELECTION TRIBUNAL , RAMANATHAPURAM AT MADURAI 
PRESENT 

Sri T . S . Anavaradham , M .A ., B .L ., Election Tribunal. 
Wednesday , the Twentieth day of January , One thousand nine hundred and sixty 
f| ve . 

( 30th day of Pausa 1886 – Saka ) 
ELECTION PETITION NO. 13 OF 1964 

BETWEEN 
Shri K . Velayudha Nair - - Petitioner. 

AND 
1. Sri R . Kasinatha Durai 
2 . Sri G . Lakshmana Subbarajulu 
3 . Sri S . S . Karuppasami - Respondents , 


Petition dated the 26th day of May , 1964, Under Sections 81 to 84 and 100 and 
101 of the Representation of the People Act , praying that the election of the first 
respondent be declared as vold and that the petitioner be declared to have been 
duly elected to the Aruppukoitai Parliamentary Constituency . 


This Election Petition coming on before me, on Friday and Saturday the 30th 
and 31st days of October, 1964 , on Wednesday, _ Thursday , Friday , Saturday , 
Monday , Tuesday, Wednesday , Monday, Tuesday , Friday, the 4th , 5th , 6th , 7th , 
9th , 10th , 11th , 16th , 17th and 27th days of November , 1964, on Friday, Saturday , 
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Monday, Tucsday, Wednesday and Monday , the 
4th , 5th , 7th , 8th , 9th , 14th , 15th , 16th and 21st days of December , 1964, and on 
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday , Thursday, Monday and Tuesday, the 4th , 5th , 6th , 
7th , 11th and 12th days of January , 1965, upon perusing the Petition , the Counter , 
the Record of Evidence and other connected material papers , and upon hearing 
the arguments of Sarva Sri R . Harihara Ayyar, B . Sankaranarayana Ayyar , P . S . 
Ramasubramaniam , M . Dhamikkodi and T . R . Rajam , Advocates for the Petitioner , 
and of Sarva Sri S . Narayanaswami Sastri, P . Subramaniam , N . J. V . Desikan and 
V . S . Chandrasegaran , Advocates for the first Respondent, the other two Reg 
pondents having remained ex - parte , and having stood over for consideration till 
this day , this Tribunal delivered the following : 


JUDGMENT 
The application is under Sections 81 to 84 and 100 and 101 of the Representation 
of the People Act, to set aside the election of the first respondent as a Member 
of the House of the People representing the Aruppukottai Parliamentary Consti 
tuency , in Ramanathapuram District (Madras State ), and to declare the petitioner 
as the duly elected candidate from that Constituency . 

2 . The averments in the application are these : - The candidates that stood for 
the election held on 15th April 1964 for the Aruppukottai Parliamentary Consti 
tuency are the parties herein . The first respondent secured 1, 38 ,358 votes , while 
the petitioner secured 1, 31 , 281 votes . Respondents 2 and 3. the other candidates , 
secured very few votes. The first respondent, who is the successful candidate 
belongs to the caste and community of Mukkulathors , of whom Agambadjars, 
Maravars and Kallars are members . His elder brother , the Rajah of Ramanatha 
puram , is a sitting Member of the Madras Legislative Assembly . During the 
election campaign , the first respondent, his agents and other persons, with the 
consent of the first respondent and his election agent, decided to carry on a 
systematic appeal to the voters throughout the Constituency to vote for the first 


from which he claims and the language which he spoke, viz ., a Tamllian , and to 
refrain from voting for the petitioner on the ground of his caste, community , 
region and language, viz., a Malayalee Nair , Pursuant to the above design , the 
first respondent, his agents , persons belonging to the Congress Party and several 
other persons, with the consent and connivance of the first respondent, carried 
out wide and extensive propaganda, by addressing several meetings in the Consti 
tuency . In all the meetings , the Arst respondent, his elder brother , Rajah 
Shanmugha Rajeswara Sethupathy , the Rajah of Ramanathapuram , several leaders 
of the Congress Party and others spoke exhorting the voters, majority of whom 
belonged to the Mukkulathor community , to vote for the first respondent on the 


662 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1966 /PHALGUNA 1 , 1886 


[PART II 


ground that the latter came from the same Mukkulathor community and that he 
was a Tamilian who hailed from the Tamilnad and spoke the Tamil language, as 
the voters. The speakers also made an appeal to the voters to refrain from 
voting to the petitioner on the ground of his being a Malayalee Nair , 

3 . On 5th April 1964 , the elder brother of the first respondent, the present Rajah 
of Evamanathapuram , went to a number of villages Eruvady , Sikkal, Ethampadal , 
Vallakulam , Odaikulam and other places in Mudukulathur taluk , accompanied by 
the first respondent and the local Congress leader Şri Balakrishnan . All of them 
addressed large gatherings and in the course of his speech , the Rajah of Rama 
nathapuram , the first respondent and the other speakers mainly referred to the 
petitioner as a Malayalee Nair and said that for the seat in Parliament vacated 
by the death of U . Muthuramalinga Thevar , a great leader of Maravars , only a 
pcrson belonging to the Maravar community , should be clected , that a Nair from 
kerala should not be supported and that if supported it would mean betrayal 


4 . On 6th April 1964 , the first respondent accompanied by his brother , the 
Rajah of Ramanathapuram , Sri Balakrishnan and others , visited Thervazhi, 
Kakoor , Thiruvarangam and the Rajah addressed election ineetings there , besides 
one at Mudukulathur. In all these places, the Rajah and the other speakers 
appealed to the gathering of voters only to vote for the first iespondent belonging 
to the Maravar community and not to the petitioner, a Malayalee Nair from 
Kerala . At the meeting at Mudukulathur, the Rajah of Ramanathapuram said 
that the seat vacated by U , Muthuramalinga Thevar, the leader of thc Maravars , 
should be occupied by a person belonging to his samoogham . After his speech , 
the first respondent also said that the Rajah had spoken everything clearly , and 
asked the voters to follow his advice . He also asked the latter not to vote for a 
Malayalee Nair but to give their full support to him as a Marava from Tamilnad . 

5 . On 7th April 1964, the Rajah of Ramanathapuram , the first respondent, Sri 
M . M . Swami, Ramu Thevar and Sri Soundarapandyan of Kamudhi went to 
Melakodumalur, Nagaratharkurichi, Abhiramam , Singapuliyapatti, Pappankulam 
and Kamudhi in Mudukulathur Taluk , and did election propaganda in favour of 
the Arst respondent. All of them addressed gatherings of voters, and the main 
purport of the speech made by the Rajah and the Trst respondent was that 
Mukkulathor voters should only support the first respondent who is a Marava by 
caste , and not a Malayalee Nair from Kerala . 

6 . On 7th April 1964, the Rajah of Ramanathapuram , the first respondent and 
his party addressed a very largely attended meeting of voters at Sayalgudi, The 
Rajah asked the voters thub : “ Are the hands which respected Thevar to be folded 
in homage before a Malayalee ?" 

7. On 9th April 1964 , the Rajah of Ramanathapuram , accompanied by his 
brother , the first respondent, Sri Veerappa Naicker , Secretary of the District Con 
gress Committee , Ramanathapuram District, Sri Doralraj , Chairman , Sattur 
Panchayat Union , Sri Muthumanikkam and others , visited Kollapatty , Nathathule 
patty , Kalinga -Naickenpatty , E . Reddiapatty , Sivaşankupatty , Elayirampannai, 


main purport of the speech made by the first respondent s brother was that in the 
place of late Muthuramalinga Thevar , a Malayalee Nair of Kerala State , meaning 
the petitioner , cannot be substituted . The first respondent also spoke in all these 
places and appealed to the voters to follow the advice of his elder brother , the 
Rajah of Ramanathapuram . In the meeting at Sattur which took place at 8 . 30 
P . M . there was a record gathering of many thousands of voters 


8 . On 10th April 1964 , Rajah Shanmugha Rajeswara Sethupathy (Rajah of 
Ramanathapura ) accompanied by his brother, the first respondent, went to 
Sivakasi, and addressed a public meeting. In the course of his address , the Rajah 
stressed that the opposite candidate , the petitioner , is a Nair from Kerala , that he 
is not a fit person to occupy the seat vacated by U . Muthuramalinga Thevar and 
that in his place only a person belonging to his samoogam should be supported . 
The first respondent in a short speech told the audience that his brother, the 
Sethupathy , had spoken what all he had to speak and he also appealed to the 
voters to give him support. 


9 . On 11th April 1964 , the Rajah of Ramanathapuram accompanied by the Arst 
respondent addressed meetings at Nalur and other places. In those meetings he 
referred to the petitioner as a Malayalee from Kerala . On 12th April 1964, a 
public meeting was held at Tiruchuli under the auspices of the local Congress 
Committee. The Rajah of Ramanathapuram , accompanied by the first respondent, 
Srirengam Pillai, the President of the District Congress Committee, and others 


SEC, 8 ( ii )] THĘ GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA I, 1886 


- 


663 


attended it, In the course of his speech , the Rajah referred to the petitioner as 
a Nair from Kerala , and appealed to the voters to vote for the first respondent, 
who is a Maravar by caste . The first respondent, who was the last speaker in 
that meeting , requested the voters not to forget the valuable words of his brother 
at the time of the poll, 

10 . On 13th April 1964, the Arst respondent, accompanied by the Rajah of 
Ramanathapuram and others, attended a meeting at Aruppukottai, and all of 
then addressed a very large gathering at Sivan - koil Thidal . The Rajah of Rama 
nathapuram questioned the propriety of a Malayalee Nair from Keralı standing 
as a candidate for the scat held by late Muthuramalinga Thevar. He appealed to 
the voters not to vote for a Malayalee Nair from Kerala , but only to vote for his 
brother who is a Mukkulathor. By the several appeals at the different meetings, 
the voters were considerably influenced in favour of the first respondent and 
against the petitioner and thus the result of the election has been materially 
affected under Section 100 ( 1 ) ( D ) of the Representation of the People Act . 
Corrupt practices coming within thc purview of Section 123 ( 3 ) ( A ) of the 


persons who spoke with his consent. The first respondent and his brother and 
several others who spoke for him are guilty of corrupt practices under Sections 
123 ( 3 ) and 123 ( 3 ) ( A ) of the Representation of the People Act. The election of 
the first respondent has to be declared void in consequence . The names of 
hundreds of voters were deleted just before the election , as seen from the List 
of Voters , relating to the Polling Booths of Tiruchuli and Mudukulathur area . 
There was no justification for such wholesale deletion . There was thus a non 
compliance of the provisions of the Constitution and of the Representation of the 
People Act and the Rulcs made thereunder. Several thousands of voters would 
have cast their votes for the pctitioner ; but they were told to their surprise that 
they had no votes . The result of the election has thus been materially affected 
by this improper deletion . But for the votes obtained by the first respondent by 
the corrupt practices , the petitioner would have obtained a majority of yotes. 

11. The Arst respondent, the successful candidate in the election , has Aled a 
very lengthy counter, meeting the several allegations in the numerous paragraphs 
contained in the application . The allegations in paragraphs 8 ( a ) to 8 ( n ) of the 


12 . The averments in the counter are thesc : - The first respondent comes of a 
very respectable family of the Sethupathis of Ramanathapuram . Even before the 
last election , he had come in close contact with the people and they had 
developed a great regard and respect for him . His association with the Madurai 
Adhccnam , Jagad Guru Sankarachariya Swamigal, Kanchi Kamakoti Peetathi 
pathigal, Dharmapuram Adhcenam , Thiruppanandal Adheenam and other Heads 
of Mutts , bad also gained the popularity and respect for him . That apart , the 
Congress Party , of which he is a member , was gaining influence and attraction in 
the minds of the people of the locality in the Constituency . He has been elected 
by the people in the fair and impartial election conducted in April, 1984 . The 
application to set asidc his election is a vaxatious one. The first respondent, his 
agents and other persons ncver entertained any idea to carry on any systematic 
appeal to the voters, to vote for him on the ground of his caste or community or 
religion or language. At no time there was any propaganda that voters should 
vote for him as he belongs to the Mukkulathor community . The Rajah of Rama 
nathapuram , though he happens to be his brother , was never his agent. He did 
not address any meeting on account of his relationship , but purely in duty bound 
as an official member of the Congress Party in which ticket, this respondent stood 
as a candidate . On 6th April 1964 , the Rajah of Ramanathapuram was at 
Rameswaram , conducting an elaborate mceting of the Devasthanarn Trust Board . 
This respondent did not address any meeting at Mudukulathur on 6th April 1964 . 
He was present at Nathathupatty , Gollapatty and Elayirampanni, but not in the 
other places referred to in paragraph 8 ( g ) of the application . In the meeting 
addressed by this respondent in the three places , he did not refer to the petitioner 
as a Malayalee Nair and say that he was a Mukkulathor and that therefore he 
should be elected in the place of U . Muthuramalinga Thevar . At the time the 
meetings referred to in paragraphs 8 ( j ) and 8 ( k ) of the application took place, 
this respondent was touring in and around the area in Palayampatti along with 
his agent and others and the Hon ble Minister Sri V . Ramayya. He was not 
present at the meeting referred to in paragraph 8 ( m ) of the application , On 
13th April 1984 , he was touring other places along with Subbiah Thevar and Sri 
Rajendran . He did not attend the meeting at Aruppukottai on 13th April 1964 
where the Rajah of Ramanathapuram is stated to have addressed . The allega 
tions in paragraphs 8 ( a ) to 8in ) , with reference to alleged speeches made by the 
Rajah of Ramanathapuram are mere figments of imagination invented by the 
petitioner and his political associates purely for the purpose of this election 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 /PHALGUNA I, 1886 


[PART II — 


petition . He ( first respondent) did not appeal to the voters on the ground of 
his community but purely on his own merit of personality and service to the 
Constituency and on the ground of his being a member of the Congress Party . It 


Constituency . The speeches made by the Rajah of Ramanathapuram and others 
were not with the consent or connivance of this respondent. There was no pro 
motion or attempt to promote feelings of enmity or hatred between Mukkulathors 
of Tamilnad and Malayalee Nairs of Kerala on the ground of race , caste , com 
munity or language. There was no kind of corrupt practice in the election on 
the part of this respondent. It is not true to say that the names of several voters 
were deleted improperly . There is no ground for setting aside the election of 
this respondent as a Member of the House of the People . 

13. The other respondents have remained ex -parte . 
14. The issues are : 
( 1 ) Whether the first respondent is guilty of the corrupt practices of having 

appealed to the voters to vote for him on the ground of his caste and 
community , i. e ., Thevar, and region from which he claims and the 
language he spoke , l. e ., Tamil, as set forth in paragraph 8 and sub 

paragraphs 8 ( a ) to 8 ( n ) of the petition ? 
( 2 ) Whether the first respondent is guilty of the corrupt practice of having 

appealed to the voters to refrain from voting for the petitioner on 
the ground of his caste , community , region and language , t. e .. 
Malayalee Nair , as set forth in paragraph 8 and sub -paragraphs 8 ( a ) 

to 8 ( n ) of the application ? 
( 3 ) Whether the first respondent promoted or attempted to promote feelings 

of enmity or hatred against the petitioner on the ground of religion , 

race , caste , community or region ? 
( 4 ) Whether all or any of the persons mentioned in paragraphs 8 ( a ) to 8 ( n ) 

of the application committed the corrupt practice referred to in 
issues 1 and 2 and whether they did so with the consent of the first 

respondent ? 
(6 ) Whether all or any of the persons mentioned in paragraphs 8 ( a ) to 

8 ( n ) of the petition promoted or attempted to promote feelings of 
enmity or hatred against the petitioner on the ground of religion , 
race , caste , community or region with the consent of the first res 

pondent ? 
( 6 ) Whether in any event all or any of the persons mentioned in Tara 

graphs 8 ( a ) to 8 ( n ) of the application committed corrupt practice as 
detailed therein and whether such corrupt practice even if it is coni 
mitted without the consent of the first respondent, materially affected 
the result of the election in so far as it concerns the returned candi 

date , i.e ., the first respondent ? 
( 7 ) Whether the names of hundreds of voters had been deleted just before 

the election relating to polling booths of Tiruchuli and Mudu 
kulathur area in contravention of the provisions of the Constitution 

and the Act, Rules and Orders thereunder ? 
( 8 ) Whether several voters lost their voting right by reason of the deletion 

referred to in issue 7 ? 
( 9 ) Whether the result of the election has been materially affected in so 

far as it concerns the returned candidate , t .e ., the first respondent on 

the ground of deletion of the names of numerous voters ? 
( 10 ) Whether the election of the first respondent has to be declared void ? 
( 11) Whether the petitioner has to be declared as the duly elected Member 

of the Parliament from the Aruppukottai Constituency ? 
( 12 ) To what reliefs is the petitioner entitled ? 


15 . The petitioner seeks to have the election of the first respondent as a Mem 
ber of the House of the People representing the Aruppukottai Constituency in the 
Bye - election held in April , 1964, consequent upon the demise of Sri U . Muthu 
ramalinga Thevar who represented that Constituency , set aside , mainly on the 
ground that the Arst respondent, his agent and other persons with his condent 
appealed to the voters to vote for him on the ground of his religion , race, caste , 
community and language , and not to vote for the petitioner on the ground of his 
religion , caste , race , community and language ; and , secondly , on the ground that 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 / PHALGUNA 1. 1886 


669 


citizens of India on grounds of religion , race , caşte , community or language , by 
the same set of persons had been made , and , lastly on the ground that just before 
the election , the names oť hundreds of voters relating to the Polling Booths of 
Tiruchuli and Mudukulathur area were improperly deleted with the result that 
he lost the several thousands of votes of persons who would have all voted for 
hini. 


16 . The first respondent s counsel referred me to several decisions in the course 
of the arguments in regard to the nature of the trial of an Election Petition and 
the manner in which the charges levelled against the successful candidate must 
be proved . They are reported in Mohan Singh y , Bhanwartal ( ) ; Paj Raj Deb v . 
Gangadhar Mohapatra (2 ) and Shantilal y . Bipinlal (3) . The Supreme Court 
has pointed out in the first of the decisions cited that the onus of establishing the 
corrupt practice is undoubtedly on the person who sets it up and that the onus is 
not discharged on proof of mere preponderance of probability, as in the trial of a 
civil suit, but that the corrupt practice must be established beyond reasonable 
doubt by evidence which is clear and unambiguous. The second of the decisions 
is authority for the proposition that chargcs of corrupt practices are quasi- criminal 
in character and to prove the allegations against the successtul candidate , the 
same standard of proof will be required as in a criminal case against an accused . 
In the last of the decisions, which is of the Madhya Pradesh High Court, it has 
been pointed out that a conclusion on a charge of corrupt practice cannot be based 
on mere conjectures or surmises which cannot take the place of legal evidence , 
Bcaring the principles laid down in these decisions, I shall discuss the evidence 
adduced on either side on the numerous issues framed . 

17 . In the course of this Judgment, I shall refer to the first respondent, the 
successful candidate in the election , as the " respondent" , inasmuch as the other 
respondents have not chosen to enter appearance and contest. In the application , 
there is reference to the Rajah of Ramanathapuram . The witnesses on either 
side have frequently made references to him . He is one of the witnesses 
examined on the respondent s behalf , being R . W . 17 . I shall refer to him merely 
as “ Rajah " throughout this Judgment. 


19 . In the application , reference is made by name to thirty villages and " other 
villages " where the respondent, the Rajah and other persons are stated to have 
done election propaganda on his (respondent s ) behalf by appealing to the voters 
to vote for him on the ground that he belongs to the Thevar community , one of 


belongs to the Tamilnad and that the voters should not crist their votes in favour 
of the petitioner who is a Malayalee Nair from Kerala . But evidence has been 
adduced in respect of election meetings held in a few of the places : namely , Mudu 
kulathur, Abhiramam , Kamudhi, Elayirampannai, Sattur, Sivakasi, Tiruchyli and 
Aruppukottai, on the petitioner s side. 

20. Under Section 123 ( 3 ) of the Representation of the People Act the appeal by 
a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of a clindidate or 
his election agent, to vote or refrain from voting for any person on the ground 
of his religion , race , caste , community or language, would be a corrupt practice . 
The petitioner did not examine himself to substantiate the various charges levelled 
by him against the respondent. But numerous witnesses have been examined on 
his side, and reliance is placed upon the Tamil Dailies " Navamani" , " Dhina -Malar" 
and " Maalai-Murasu " , of dates 11th April 1964 , 14th April 1964 and 13th April, 
1964 respectively , mainly to substantiate this part of his case in regard to the 
manner in which the respondent, his agent and others appealed to the voters to 
vote for him ( respondent) . 

21 . In regard to the five villages referred to in paragraph 8 ( a ) of the applica 
tion , there is no oral evidence on petitioner s behall. Reliance was placed upon 
Ex . A - 5 , which was an appeal handed over to P . W . 3 , Soundarapandyun , who is 
running a Press at Kamudhi, for printing, to show that in contravention of Section 
123 ( 3 ) , the respondent, his agent and persons with his consent, had been canvas 
sing for votes on his behalf. P . W . 3 admitted that Ex . A - 5 was not written in his 
presence . Thus, it has not been proved . Assuming there is adequate proof of it , 
stiil, inasmuch as it is not followed up by other evidence , it cannot advance the 
petitioner s case at all. Thus, it may be concluded that the averments in para 
graph 8 ( a ) of the application have not been substantiated . 


( 1 ) A . I. R . 1964 Supreme Court 1366 . 
( 2 ) A . I. R . 1984 Orissa 1 . 
(8 ) A .I. R . 1964 Madhya Pradesh 92 . 


66 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1963 /PHALGUNA 1, 1886 [PART II 


22 . The allegation in the application is to the cffcct that on 6th April 1964 , the 
Rajah accompanied by his brother , the respondent, besides others, visited four 
villages including Mudukulathur, and addressed public meetings, appealing to 
the voters to vote only for the respondent, who belongs to tho Maravar com 
nunity , and not to vote for the respondent; who is a Malayalee Nair from Kerala . 
In regard to the allegations in paragraph 8 ( c ), no attempt was made to adduce any 
evidence of the meetings in three of the four places named therein . Even in 
regard to the election mccting held at Mudukulathur, thc cvidence adduced is 
very meagre and unsatisfactory . There is positive videnie on the respondent s 
side to show that on that date (6th April 1964 ), the Rajah was at Rameswaram 
till about 5 . 45 P . M . and that he reached Ramanathapuram at about 8 P . M . The 
latter s evidence was that he did not proceed to Mudukulatliur on that night. 
The petitioner mainly relied upon the short distance between Ramanathapuram 
and Mudukulathur to urge that it would not have been inipossible for the Rajah 
to proceed to that place and address an election meeting on behalf of his brother , 
the respondent, even assuming that till about night- fall he was at Rameswaram . 
The respondent, as R . W . 1 , stated that on 6th April 1964 the Rajah was at 
Rameswaram and that he did not meet him on that date . RW . 10 , the Superin 
tendent of the Rameswaram Devasthanam , stated that on that date there was a 
meeting of the Board of Trustees, of which the Rajah was the Chairman , he being 
also the hereditary trustee of that Devasthanam , and that Parivattam , that is , 
temple honours , were given to him . There is documentary evidence to show that 
the officers in charge of the Devasthanam had made arrangements to give the 
Rajah his due honours - vide Exs . B - 11 , B - 12 and B - 13 on that day. According 
to R . W . 10 , the meeting commenced at about 3. 30 PM , and it ended at about 
5 P . M . R . W . 17 , the Rajah , has stated that he attended the meeting of the Board 
of Trustees at Rameswaram Devasthanan , that he did not address any election 
meeting on that date at all and that he reached Ramanathapuram from 
Rameswaram only at about 8 . 15 P . M . on that day . 

23. The other argument that after 8 . 15 P . M , It would have been possible for 
the Rajah to reach Mudukulathur from Ramanathapuram by travelling in a 
motor car — the distance between the two places being forty -two miles - will have 
no force at all, for the simple reason that the allegations in the application are 
to the effect that on that date the Rajah had addressed election meetings at three 
other places , that is , Thervazhi, Kakoor and Thiruvarangam , and that Muduku 
lathur was the last of the villages which he visited on that night during the 
election campaign . There is no evidence on the petitioner s side that these threc 
villages lie en - route to Mudukulathur for the petitioner to contend that it would 
not have been impossible for the Rajah to halt for a few minutes at each of these 
three places and address meeting and ultimately reach Mudulculathur. As 
pointed out in the decision referred to above, the corrupt practice cannot be 
decided on mere probabilities . Positive evidence must he adduced . The petitioner 
has failed to show that the respondent and the Rajah addressed election meetings 
on 6th April 1964 at four places including Mudukulathur, 

24 . The averments in the application are to the effect that on 7th April 1964 
the respondent and the Rajah addressed election meetings at several places 
including Abhiramam and Kamudhi and that in the course of their address , an 
appeal to voters was made to vote for the respondent on the ground of his reli 
gion , caste and the language he spoke and to refrain from voting for the petitioner 
because he was a Malayalee Nair from Kerala . The witnesses on petitioner s 
behalf who have given evidence in regard to this part of his case , that is , Kamudhi 
miccting , are P . W . 3 , 5 and 6 . On behalf of the respondent, besides his evidence 
we have the testimony of R .Ws. 11, 12 , 15 , 17 ( Rajah ) and 18 by way of rebuttal. 

25. P . W . 3 is the person who claims to have printed copies of Ex . A - 5 . P . W . 
5 , Guruswami Chettiar, a native of Kamudhi, stated that there was an election 
meeting seven days prior to the election near the Mariamman temple and that it 
was attended by the Rajah , Sri Soundarapandia Nadar, Pasumpon Ramu Thevar 
and others . Even in chief -examination , he dropped the respondent. But then , 
when the petitioner s counsel asked him whether he knew the respondent, he 
answered in the affirmative and started saying that in that mecting the Rajah of 
Ramanathapuram , Soundarapandian , Ramu Thevar, Kasinath Dorai ( first res 
pondent) spoke. The respondent has denied having gone to Kamudhi on the 
date in question and addressed a meeting . The omission to refer to him by 
P . W . 5 to begin with and the manner in which he subsequently referred to him 
would clearly show that the respondent could not have been present at the election 
meeting at Kamudhi. 

26 . P . W . 5 stated that the Rajah spoke on communal lines, saying that in the 
place of " Thevar (meaning thereby , the late U . Muthuramalinga Thevar ) the 
respondent has been set up by the Congress, that persons should vote for him 


SEC . 3( ii)] THE CAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 /PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


667 


and that they should not vote for Velayudha Nair, as a person from the Thevar 
community was contesting for the seat. In cross -examination , he said that he 
remained at a distance of about 15 feet from the platform and that he had repeated 
the words of the Rajah , that is, part of his speech , in his chief-examination , as he 
remenbered the same very well. In my view , his evidence should be legarded 
as highly artificial, The meeting took place as early as 7th April 1964 . The wit 
negs gave evidence nearly six months thereafter . True , the Rajah , as R . W . 17 , 
has admitted that he went to Kamudhi on 7th April 1964 ; but then , he would 
describe his talk at the Mariamman temple as a casual talk which he gave when 
he happened to visit it , and not an address for an audience in a meeting . But 
from that circumstance it cannot be concluded that he must have gone to the 
temple only to worship the Deity by the way and mainly to canvass yotes for his 
brother , the respondent, and on communal lines . 

27. The other witness who has spoken about the meetings at Kamudhi is 
P . W . 6 , Subbiah Thevar . According to him , the crowd at the meeting would be 
about 2 ,000 ; the Rajah , the respondent and two others addressed the gathering , and 
the Rajah said that votes should not be cast to a Malavelee . His further evi 
dence was that the respondent said that voting for a Malayalee is not for the 
" well-being of the Maravar community . If his evidence is accepted , undoubtedly 
there was a corrupt practice coming within the mischief of Section 123 ( 3 ) of the 
Representation of the People Act. But even his cvidence appcars to be highly 
artificial. He was able to say at what distance he stood when he heard the 
speeches of the several persons at this distance of time. Not only that; he would 
sperify thc minutes taken by each of the speakers for addressing the gathering 
by saying that the Rajah spoke for twenty minutes , that Ramu Thevar took ive 
minutes to address the gathering and that the Nadar took about fifteen minutes 
for his address. One cannot understand how this witness is able to recollect 
the time taken by each of the speakers to canvass the votes on behalf of the 
respondent. 

28. According to R . W . 15 , who was the Sub - Inspector of Police at Kamudhi, 
there was no public meeting on 7th April 1964 at all, I sce no reason to dis 
believe his testimony. R . W . 18 , Dansuhkodi Nadar , is a native of Kamudhi. He 
invited the Rajah to the Mariamman temple and honoured him . At that time, 
some persons had gathered and the Rajah addressed them for a few ninutes . He 
further deposed that the respondent did not come with him at all. In cross 
cxamination it was elicited from him that the expenses for the Rajah s visit to 
the Mariamman temple have been entered in the accounts . True, the latter have 
not been placed before the Tribunal. But from that, no adverse inference can be 
drawn, if we bear in mind that the onus of proof lics heavily , and only , on the 
petitioner to establish the corrupt practice. 

29 . The evidence of R .Ws. 11 and 12 shows that on 7th April 1964 there was 
a public meeting at Aruppukottai, that the Hon ble the Chicf Minister of the 
State of Madras attended it and that the respondent was present at that meeting 
which went on between 7 and 10 P . M . that day . I believe their cvidence . Thus 
the respondent could not have gone to Kamudhi as alleged in the application for 
any election meeting . 

30. There is no acceptable evidence on the petitioner s side to show that at 
the Kamudhi meeting the Rajah appealed to the voters to vote for the respondent 
on the ground that he is a Thevar, a Tamilian , and one who was speaking the 
Tamil language and that persons should refrain from voting for the petitioner, he 
being a Malayalee Nair of Kerala . 

31. I shall now take up for consideration the evidence in regard to the meeting 
held at Abhiramam , which is also stated to have been held on 7th April 1964 . As 
per the averment in the application , the respondent and the Rajah addressed the 
gathering. In the counter , the respondent denied having lione over to Abhiraman 
on the date in question and participated in the election campaign . The Rajah as 
R . W . 17 admitted having gone to Abhiramam and addressed a meeting . But he 
would confine: his address to a normal one, that is, as a person helonging to the 
Congress Party and requesting the voters to vote for the candidate who had been 
set up on the Congress ticket, that is , the respondent. 

32. The two witnesses who have given evidence about the election meeting at 
Abhiramam on petitioner s side are P .Ws. 7 and 8 , Singarama Konar and Rama 
krishnan . Besides the Rajah , the other witness whose evidence has to be con 
sidered on respondent s behalf in regard to this meeting is R . W . 4 . 


33 . P . W . 7 stated that he attended the election mecting at Murugan Talkies at 
Abhiramam a week prior to the election , that the Rajah , after referring to the 


668 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


(Part II 


achievements of the Congress Party , said that in this Constituency (meaning lhore 
by , the Aruppukottai Constituency ) , Thevar was originally the representative , 
that his (Rajah s ) brother has now been set up , that he is opposed by a Nair 
who had come from somewhere that people should vote for the respondent who 
belongs to the Thevar community , that none should vote for the Malayalee Nair , 
that if votes should be cast in his lavour it would amount to dropping the 
Maravar community in a deep pit , that they all worshipped " Thevar (Muthu 
ramalinga Thevar ) as a God and that such persons should not worship a Malayalee 
Nair , He also deposed that after the Rajah , Ramu Thevar spoke , followed up by 
Soundarapandian and that the last speaker was the respondent who said that the 
Rajah had said everything and that people should vote for him , he being a member 
of the " Thevar community " . In cross -examination , his native town got shifted 
as Agatha - Iruppu . He admitted that he had not noted the gist cf the Rajuh s 
speech . It is very strange that after the lapse of about seven months from the 


while appealing to the voters. He did not give any special reason for recollecting 
the very words go vividly . I am not inclined to rely on the evidence of P . W . 7 . 

34 . P . W . 8 , a native of Abhiramam , also referred to the manner in which the 
Rajah delivered his address on communal lines at the election meeting which 
was held about eight days prior to the election . He would also refer to the 
prosence of the respondent at the meeting. He repeated the words used by the 
respondent in Tamil during cross - examination . Not only that . He stated that in 
chief -examination he had repeated the words used by the four speakers, namely 
the Rajah , Soundarapandian , Ramu Thevar and the respondent. It is impossible 
to believe that he has such a remarkable memory . 

35. R . W . 4 , Karuppiah Thevar of Abhiramam , is the Proprietor of the Cinema 
Theatre where the meeting is alleged to have taken place . He would say that 
the Rajah addressed the meeting and thereafter Hon ble Sri Kakkan a Minister 
of the State of Madras, addressed , but that none else spoke at that meeting at all. 
His evidence in cross- examination was that he has been in the Congress Party 
for the past two months. He was examined on 7th December 1964 . One cannot 
believe him when he says that only recently he joined the Congress . The election 
meeting under the auspices of the Congress Party was admittedly held in his 

Theatre on 7th April 1984 . To get out of the difficulty, he said in answer to the 
following question ; " Would you often give your Theatre ior holding meetings ? ” 
that he would spare it for persons of the different parties . He must have been 
in the Congress Party at the time of this meeting. He was admittedly in the 
Forward Bloc Party . The petitioner contested the Bye - election as a candidate 
of the Forward Bloc Party . I cannot rely on the testimony of R . W . 4 . 

36 . On tlie petitioner s side, there is no satisfactory evidence to show that at 
the election meeting held at Abhiramam , the Rajah and the respondent addressed 
the gathering on communal lines, that is , appealing to the voters to vote for the 
Congress candidate (respondent ) because he happens to be a Thevar and a 
Tamilian speaking the Tamil language and not to vote for the petitioner, who is 
a Malayalee Nair from Kerala . 

37 . On the petitioner s side evidence in regard to election meetings held on 
9th April 1984 at Elayiramapannai and Sattur has been adduced . Besides the 


Malar" and "Maalal -Murasu " marked as Exs. A - 1 and A - 2 , A - 13 and A - 17 
l espectively to prove the address of the Rajah at the meetings. The respondent 
admits having accompanied the Rajah to Elayirampannai and addressed the 
meeting there. The stand taken in his counter is that he did not go to Sattur 
along with the Rajah or attend the meeting at all there on 9th April 1964. But 
evidence has been adduced to show that at the relevant time he was elsewhere 
going along with an Hon ble Minister of the State of Madras. It was admitted by 
him during his cross -examination that his counter was prepared on a reference 
to the diary maintained by him wherein he had inade notes about most of the 
mertings addressed by him . If that were so , one cannot understand how it was 
dimcult for the respondent to speciflcally allege in the counter that at the time 
the meeting at Sattur is alleged to have been held and addressed by him , he was 
actually at a far distant place or at some other place. Without an allegation it 
is not open to the respondent to adduce evidence in support of his plea of allbt 
practically . In the decision reported in Ram Phal v . Braham Parkash (4) It has 
been held that it is a fairly established rule that no evidence can be looked at , 
which is not covered by the pleadings. The meeting at Sattur is stated to have 
commenced at about 7. 30 P . M , and to have ended at 10 . 30 P . M . on 9th April 1964 . 
R . W . 14 , who was the Sub -Inspector of Police at Narlkudi in April, 1984, would 

(1) A .I. R . 1982 Punjab 129 . 


SEC, 3( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 /PHALGUNA I, 1886 


6604 


say that the Hon ble Sri V . Ramayya , a Minister of the Madras State , addressed 
a meeting at Eruncheri and that the respondent joined the party in the meeting 
at about 9 P . M . and accompanied the Hon ble Minister till Narikudi which was 
reached at about 12 mid -night. This evidence is firstly inadmissible for the simple 
reason that there is no averment in the counter that the respondent was at 
Eruncheri at the time of the alleged Sattur mceting . The second rcason for dis 
crediting the evidence of R . W . 14 is that in the General Diary he had not noted 
that the respondent came to attend the meeting at Eruncheri. 

38 . I shall take up for consideration the evidence in regard to the meeting held 
at Elayırampannai on the afternoon of 9th April 1984. As stated already , the 
respondent has admitted having accompanied the Rajah to Elayirampannai.. 
Therefore , the main question is whether both of them addressed the voters on 
communal lines and on the ground of religion and region as contended in the 
application 

39. The three witnesses who have spoken about the election meeting held at 
Elayırampannai are P .Ws. 16 to 18 . The rebuttal evidence is given by R .Ws. 1 
( respondent) 8 , 9 and 17 (Rajah ) . 

40 . The meeting at Elayirampannai is stated to have taken place in the 
Şangham premises there . P . W . 16 , Raju Thevar, a Member of the Panchayat 
Board at Elayirampannal, stated that on behalf of the respondent a meeting was 
organized there , that he attended it and that the Rajah who was the first speaker, 
followed up by the respondent, stated that for the seat of Muthuramalinga Thevar .. 
some Nair from Malabar had been set up, that the persons should vote for : 
Thevar, that the respondent should be made to succeed , and that Thevars should 
vote for him and assure success . According to him , the respondent said that his 
brother had said everything, that the Thevars of the locality should support him 
and that he has nothing more to add to his brother s speech . He knows the 
petitioner for a decade and more. In his anxiety to impress the Tribunal about 
the strenuous appeal made by the Rajah to secure votes for his brother , the rez 
pondent, and evidently in his desire to support the petitioner fully , he ventured 
to state that the Rajah addressed for half an hour. But then , when he was asked 
about the speech , the address got reduced just to these few lines . His version 
runs thus : - " The Rajah said that the Congress had set up the first respondent for 
the seat of Muthuramalinga Thevar, that all Thevars in the locality should join 
together and vote for the first respondent. He did not say anything more " . Thus , 
the rcfcrence to a Nair from Malabar for the seat of Muthuramalinga Thevar, 
which was made in the chief-examination has been siguificantly dropped . 

41. The respondent s evidence was that at Elayirampannai hc addressed a 
reception meeting and that the Rajah too addressed it at about 3 .30 P . M . But 
the Rajah did not stick to the reception meeting alone ; he admitted having 
addressed the meeting at the Sangham building . Whether it was an election 
meeting or a reception meeting, we have to consider whether both the persons 
or either of them appealed to the voters to vote for the respondent on the ground 
of his religion , race , caste , community or language, or to refrain from voting 
for the petitioner on the ground of his religion , race , caste and community . 

42. P . W . 17 , Bhaskaran , is a native of Elayirampannai. He described himself 
as an " uncomplete " S . S . L . C . and stated that he attended the election meeting 
which was held five or six days prior to the election and that the Rajah and the 
respondent spoke there . He referred to the words of appeal lised by the Rajah 
and said that he could repeat the words used by Sri Rajaji at a mecting addressed 
by him . His evidence appears to be artificial. The next witness, Rakkana 
Thevar, P . W . 18 , who is also of Elayirampannai, left off the respondent as one of 
the persons who addressed the election meeting at that place . He asserted that 
the kajah was the only person who spoke. Admittedly , both the Rajah and the 
respondent had addressed the meeting. Thus it is clear that P . W . 18 could not 
have attended the meeting, or if he had attended it, liis memory is very poor, 
But tlien , he wanted to make amends for the omission in the chict -examination , 
by stating during the course of cross -examination , that " the first respondent spoke 


regard to the nature of the Rajah s talk to the gathering . 


43. On the respondent s side R . W . 8 , Krishna Thevar of Elayiramapnnai, who 
was referred to by P . W . 16 as the " Mudalali " of the village has given evidence 
in support of the respondent s case that there was no corrupt practice in the 
appeal that was made to the voters at the meeting at Elayirampannai, In his 
cross - examination , it has been elicited that he is a Congressman for two decades 
and that he is solely interested in agriculture. It was urged that it is very doubt 
ful whether he would have attended the meeting . It is in evidence that the Rajah 


1670 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 [PART 11– 


- 


was carrying on election propaganda as a Member of the Congress Party and was 
visiting several villages. RW . 8 is a prominent person on the village. It is 
impossible to say that he could not have attended the election meeting which the 
Rajah addressed on 9th April 1964 at Elayirampannai. His evidence is only by 
way of rebuttal. The burden as pointed out already, lies only on the petitioner 
to prove what was the nature of the speech niade by the Rajah and his brother, 
the respondent, at the election mectings . RW . 9 , Dorai Nadar of Elayirainpannai 
stated that he attended the election meeting in his village, that the crowd that was 
there was just about 300 or 400 , that the Rajah was inside the building while 
part ot the crowd was outside and that the Rajah did not refer to Noir at all, 
There is some conflict between the cvidence of R .Ws, 8 and 9 in regard to the 
persons inside the Sangham building. R . W . 8 asserted that there was none inside 
the building when the Rajah spoke, But R . W . 9 would distribute the audience 
within the building and outside it. From this discrcpancy it cannot be said that 


immaterial point. 


44 . The Rajah as R . W . 17 stated that at none of the election meetings did he 
say that the people should vote for the respondent as he is a Maravar or of the 
Mukkulathor community and as he is his brother , and that he never asked the 
people not to vote for the petitioner as he is a Malayalee Nair , that is , on the 
ground of his caste , religion or language . I believe him . It has 100 thus been 
satisfactorily established by the petitioner that at the meeting at Elayirampannai 
the Rajah as well as his brother , the respondent, asked the voters to vote for the 
latter on the ground that he is a member of the Thevar community , that he is a 
Tamilian , and that people should not cast their votes in petitioner s favour as he 
is a Malayalee Nair from Kerala . 


45 . The petitioner mainly relics upon the evidence in regard to the elcction 
meeting held at Sattur on the night of 9th April 1964 , to set aside the election 
of the respondent. The witnesses who speak about the participation of the 
respondent and the Rajah in the election meeting held there on that date , apart 
from those connected with the three Dailies referred to already , are P .Ws, 11 
to 15 . The Rajah admits having addressed the election mceting but not on the 
lines alleged in the petition . He would say that his brother, the respondent. 
took leave of him even at Elayirampannai on the afternoon of 9th April 1964 and 


the Rajah s appeal to the gathering at the meeting at Sattur which is alleged 
to have been briefly adopted by the respondent, I should consider it necessary 
ito repeat here the allegations in the petition in regard to that meeting : 


" Raja Shanmugha Rajeswara Sethupathy ( the Rajah ) was the main 

spcaker. In the course of his address to the voters he told them 
that in the place of late Sri V . Muthuramalinga Thevar whom the 
Mukkulathor s worshipped , a Malayalec Nair from Kerala (meaning 
thereby the petitioner ) cannot be substituted and that the attempt 
would amount to betraying and throwing the Mukkolathu Makkal 
( the community of Maravars , Ahamudiyars and Kallars ) into a deep 
abys and he the speaker would not be party to it. In a contemptuous 
tone he exhorted to the voters, posed the question to them as to 
whether with the hands with which thcy worshipped their leader , 
are they asked to worship a Malayalee . According to the speaker it 
was not proper for his Samuham ( thevars ) to depend upon a Nair 
when a chiet was necessary for his Samuhom . After the Rajah 
Shanmugha Rajeswara Sethupathi concluded his speech , the first 
respondent addressed the voters . He endorsed what all his elder 
brother thc Raja Sethupathy had spoken ," 


46 . P . W . 11 , Balakrishnan , a resident of Sattur stated that he attended the 
election meeting at Sattur which was held in support of the candidature of the 
respondent and that both the Rajah 2s well as the respondent addressed the 
gathering which mainly considered of Mukkulathors. He referred to the manner 
in which the Rajah appealed to the gathering and that is consistent with the 
averments in the application extracted above. But his evidence cannot be relied 
upon for the simple reason that he is a Secretary of the Dravida Munnetra 
Kazhagam Party which is one of the Parties which supported the Petitioner s 
candidature. He would go to the extent of saying that the Rajah referred to the 
petitioner in singular form . I do not think however -much the Rajah may be 
interested in the prospects of his brother, the respondent, he would have ventured 
to address a public meeting referring to the petitioner who is a Member of the 
Bar and one who had been set up by the Forward Bloc Party which was success 
ful in that constituency in the prior Election by electing its leader late Sri 


Muthuramalinga Thevar in such a manner . Evidently , the witness felt that he 
had over - shot the mark in his enthusiasm and therefore when he had the next. 
opportunity immediately , he said that the Rajah referred to the petitioner in a 
respectable form by using the Tamil word " Avar " 

47. The evidence of P . W . 12 , Sornamani Nadar , was that he attended the 
election meeting at Sattur which was held in Rajendra Prasad Maidan in North 
Car Street between 8 and 10 P . M . and that both the Rajah and his brother, the 
respondent, besides one Veerappa Naicker , addressed the gathering. According to . 
him , the Rajah said that Muthuramalinga Thevar was dead , that in that seat a 
Malayalee Nair from Kerala State should not be taken and that the Thevar com 
munity should cast their votes in favour of his younger brother. But curiously 
enough , he would say that the Rajah in his enthusiasm spoke some " un - under 
staridable " words also . He placed the respondent beside the Rajah and said that 
the former wound up his speech by saying that his brother had rcferred to all 
the points he wanted to spcak and that all must cast their votes in his favour, in 
Cross - examination he stated that he cannot say what Veerappa Naicker sald at 
that meeting . One cannot understand why this witness should make a distinction 
between the three speakers and remember vividly the words uttered by two of 
them and forget totally what the other had said . He could have atleast given 
the gist of Veerappa Naicker s speech . Probably , he does not want to reveal 
what he said , lest it should allect the petitioner s case , in the sense that the 
reports we have in the dailies get connected with his words. Though in chief 
examination he would credit the Rajah with having used “ un -understandable " 
words , his evidence in cross -examination was that he is unable to express the 
words used by the Rajah . Therefore , onc cannot believe him when he says 
that the Rajah appealed in a particular manner to the voters. Another reason 
why his evidence should be discredited is his inability to say what Sri Rajaji. 
and Sri Rajendran , a cinema actor, said at the meeting held in support of the 
petitioner s candidature . Admittedly , he had attended all the meetings. He did . 
not give any special reason for being able to repeat either the words of the Rajah 
or the gist of it in his chief- examination . Thus, the evidence of P . W . 12 must 
be brushed aside . 

48 . P . W . 13 who goes by the name Chairman is an impecuncous lorry broker , 
He also spoke about the election mecting at Sattur. He did not say what the 
respondent said , for, according to him when the latter rose up , he left the 
mecting place. He spoke about the address of the Rajah at the meeting. He 
wanted to add weight to his evidence by stating that he is a sympathiser of the 
Congress Party and that he does not belong to the Forward Bloc Party whích : 
had put up the Petitioner as a candidate to contest in the bye- olection . But, 
in re -examination , evidently he forgot his object, and stated that he ceased to be 
& synipathiser of the Congress Party as he did not like that party . The respondent 
contested the seat on the Congress ticket . No reliance could be placed upon the 
testimony of P . W . 13 . 

49. The next witness on whom reliance was placed to prove that the appeal 
at the Sattur election meeting by the Rajah would come within the purview ot 
Section 123 ( 3 ) of the Representation of the People Act , is P . W . 14, Palaniappa 
Nadar who is the proprietor of a match factory at Elayirampanpai, a village which 
is about eight miles from Sattur . According to him , the important speaker was 
the Rajah . He referred to two persons as having accompanied the Rajah , that 19 
Veerappa Naicker and Dorairaj Naicker. He did not say that the respondent 
accompanied the Rajah . Evidently feeling that this omission is a significant one, 
the petitioner s counsel put the following question to him immediately : " Where 
was the first respondent then ? ” . The answer was this : " He wag scated with the 
Rajah on the platform in a chair. " . According to him , the Rajah referred to the 
petitioner as a person belonging to Kerala and a Nair by caste , that he was just 
an ordinary Vakil, that persons held Muthuramalinga Thevar as a God , that the 
Malayalee Nair cannot compete for the seal vacated by Muthuramalinga Thevar 
and that his brother , being the true representative of the Thevar caste , should 
be fully supported and votes cast for him . His first version was that after 
Vecrappa Naicker spoke, the respondent addressed the gathering, followed up by 
Rajah . But subsequently he altered it and said that the respondent spoke only 
after the Rajah s speech was over. In cross - examination , he stated that he cannot 
give the speech of Sri Rajaji at a meeting held on the next day, that is , on 10th 
April 1964 and attended by him . If so , one cannot understand how he is able to 
recollect vividly the words uttered by the Rajah , I cannot rely on his testimony. 

50 . The last witness examined on petitioner s behalf in regard to the meeting 
at Sattur is P . W . 15 , Chelliah Thevar, a native of Padanthal, which is just six 
furlongs from Sattur. He has studied upto the V Class . According to hini, two 
persons addressed the gathering before the Rajah spoke . He admitted that he 


672 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 /PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


[PART II 


cannot say what those two persons said . Again , he admitted that on the next 
day , that is , 10th April 1964, Sri Rajaji spoke at a meeting , but that he did not 
note his speech at all . There is nothing to indicate how his memory in regard 
to the Rajah s speech alone was so strong that he could refer to it during the 
course of chief - examination . His evidence appears to be artificial and it has to 
be rejected , 

51. The rebuttal evidence on the respondent s side is given both by the Rajah 
as R . W . 17 and by R . W . 7 . The respondent, as stated alrçudy , denied having 
attended the meeting at Sattur. The denial is strengthened by the failure on the 
part of the Correspondent of the " Maalal-Murasu " Dally ( P . W . 28 ) who attended 
the Sattur meeting and sent a report to the office of his daily to be embodied in 
the newspaper, that the respondent addressed the gathering. If the candidate 
addressed a meeting , one could normally expect the correspondent of a daily to 
refer to him in his report and not to totally ignore that fact at all. 


held that the respondent must have accompanied his brother , the Rajah , when 
he went to address the election meeting at Sattur. Admittedly , he had gone with 
him to Elayirampannai which is not far away from Sattur, The election meeting 
at Sattur took place as programmed . The counsel stated that Sattur is a Taluq 
Centre with a fairly large population of the Thevar community and a business 
centre and that when an election meeting is to be held in such a place , one could 
easily expect the candidate , that is, the respondent, to take part in it, and not to 
totally avoid it by going elsewhere . But the Supreme Court has pointed out 
that the onus of establishing a corrupt practice is not discharged on proof of mere 
preponderance of probability . The Rajah has stated that his brother , the res 
pondent did not attend the meeting at Sattur. Merely because of the relation 
ship , his evidence cannot be ignored . He was prepared to admit that his brother 
came with him to Elayirampannai. Thus, from the evidence it is clear that the 
respondent did not take part in the meeting held at Sattur, 


53. The Rajah as R . W . 17 denied having asked the voters to vote for his 
brother , he being a member of the Thevar community , and as he is a Tamilian . 
He asserted that he did not say that persons should not vote for the petitioner . 
who is a Malayalee Nair from Kerala . The counsel for the petitioner said that 
in the instant case the Rajah who is a Member of the Madras Legislative Assembly 
must be regarded as more than a Party for the simple reason that if the corrupt 
practice alleged in the application is established , far - reaching consequences would 
follow . He referred me to Section 140 of the Representation of the People Act 
and stated that though not in the interest of his brother, the respondent, in his 
own interest, the Rajah is giving evidence . True, if the allegations in the appli 
cation get proved , the respondent would lose his seat and the consequences for 
the Rajah are more serious. But it is too much to say that the love for the 
Assembly Seat had made the Rajah totally disregard the truth . 

54 . We have now to consider how far the documentary evidence, that is , the 
reports in the three Dailies about the Sattur meeting, could be relied upon to 
substantiate the charge against the respondent. As per the decision in Ram 
Chandra v . Emperor ( 5 ), one specimen of a newspaper is not a copy of another 
specimen of the same newspaper of the same date but that they are all counter 
part originals , each being primary cvidence of the contents of the rest . That 
decision is also authority for the proposition that the genuineness of a newspaper 
should be presumed under Section 81 of the Evidence Act. Another decision 
which would be in point is the one reported in Khilumal Topandas v . Arjundas 
Tulsidas ( 6 ). As per this decision , a report of a speech made in the newspaper 
is not admissible in evidence to prove the speeches , but that the party must pro 
duce the persons who had made the speeches or the persons in whose presence 
such speeches were made or the reporter of the newspaper in whose presence 
the speeches were made and who had sent the report to be published in the paper , 
Of the four categories of persons referred to above, the petitioner cannot be 
expected to produce the speaker, he being the respondent s brother and one who 
is alleged to have made the improper speech in the sense that it had offended 
Section 123 of the Rcpresentation of the People Act. The petitioner has examined 
some of the persons who attended the meeting , that is , P . Ws. 11 to 15 , whose 
evidence has already been considered . There remains for consideration the 
evidence of the actual reporters and the editors of the three Dailies who published 
the news on the strength of the reports , 


( 5 ) A . I. R . 1930 Lahore 371. 
(6 ) A .I.R . 1959 Rajasthan 280. 


Src, (II) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965/ PHALGUNA ?, 1886 


673 


1964 and 14th April 1964 . The other documents which are parts of these two 
issues and on which rcliance has been placed by the petitioner ere Exs. A - 3 , 1 - 4 , 
A - 19 , A - 20 , A - 21 , A - 22 and A -23. 

56 . The petitioner s counsel pointed out that these documents being ante litem 
moten they are entitled to nuch weight. His further argument was that as we 
find similar reporting in two other Dailies, that is , “ Dhina -Malar " and " Maalai 
Murasu " , which have also been exhibited and the concerned reporters too 
examined , the reporting in Ex . A - 1 niust be taken to be correct and the con 
clusion that the Rajah had made an appeal at the ülection meeting at Sattur 
which would be a corrupt practice as per the definition found in Section 123 ( 3 ) 
of the Representation of the People Act , is irresistible . I shall consider the 
correctness of the reporting in the other two Dailies at the proper place when the 
evidence of the reporter or the correspondent, that is , P . W s. 10 and 28, is taken 
up . The other reason that was urged on petitioner s behalf for acceptance of the 
reports contained in Ex . A - 1 is the admitted correctness of part of it by the 
Rajah , the spcaker . But as they relate to the reporting in the “ Dhina -Malar" , I 
shall consider the same at a subsequent stage . 


57. P . W . 1 , Sri Ramalingam , the Editor of " Navamani" , stated that Exs. A - 1 
and A - 2 were printed in his Press and the circled portion and the red -marked 
portion in Ex , A - 2 were based on the reports of the Reporter sent to him , 
According to him , the circled portion in Ex , A - 1 ( Ex. A - 19 ) was based on a tele 
phonic communication while the red -marked portion in Ex , A - 2 ( Ex . A - 22 ) was 
bused on a written report. The non -production of the rcport was explained by 
saying that it is not preserved for a fairly long time. The meeting was held on 
oth April 1964 . The witness gave evidence on 30th October 1964. In cross 


not go to the Press as such , In answer to a question by the Tribunal, he said 
that report received would also be " elaborated " . Therefore , it was argued on 
respondent s behalf that it cannot be safely concluded that all the words ascribed 
to the Rajah in the report were really uttered by him . But then , the petitioner 
has examined P . W . 2 to prove that the words used by the Rajah were incorpo 
rated in his report to the Daily and that they are found repeated in the issue 
marked Ex. A - 1. So far as Ex . A - 2 is concerned , P . W . 2 , the Staff Correspondent, 
stated that it is an election " round - up " and that it is based on the " sput-study " 
by him . He found that the propaganda was made as " Tamilian -Malayalee " . He 
stated that the heading " Tamilian -Malayalee" in Ex , A - 2 ( for Ex . A - 22 ) is based 
on the report about the Sattur meeting which he attended and in which the Rajah 
spokc. He admitted in cross - examination that he had given the opinion , that is , 
that the election propaganda was as " Tamilian -Malayalee" ir Ex . A - 2 . Ex . A - 3 
which is found in Ex. A - I was admitted by P . W . 2 not to be in his language. 
Another reason for discrediting Ex . A - 2 is the admitted delay in sending it . " P . W . 
2 stated that the election round -up was prepared by him five or six days after 
he had attended the meetings. It is highly doubtful whether after the lapse of 
such a time, he would have remembered the words uttered at each of the meetings 
to come to a definite conclusion about the lines on which the appeal had been made. 
He has referred to twenty - seven meetings in Ex , A - 1. But he admitted that he did 
not attend all of them . Admittedly , he does not know shorthand and did not take 
verbatim reports . 


58. P . W . 29, the News Editor, " Navamani , stated that Ex . A - 19, the parts of 
which are Exs. A - 4 and A - 21, was based on a telephonic message, which , as stated 
already was not placed before the Tribunal. Of course, at this distance of time, 
the persons connected with the Daily cannot be expected to preserve such 
records. But that difficulty should not lead to a disadvantage for the respondent. 
The charge against him must be established beyond all reasonable doubt. In 
cross -examination , P . W . 29 also admitted that " catchy head - lines " would be given 
and the background would be added . I have disbelieved the oral evidence of 
P .Ws. 11 to 15 in regard to the Rajah s speech . From the reports in Ex , A - 1 and 
the election round -up in Ex . A - 2 , it cannot safely be concluded that the Rajah had 
requested the voters to vote for the respondent, he being a Marava belonging to 
the Mukkulathor community and not to vote for the petitioner, a Malayalee Nair 
from Kerala . There is evidence to show that at the Sattur meeting apart from 
the Rajah , some other persons also spoke. The possibility of their appeal being 
treated as that of the Rajah cannot be completely ruled out. The definite case 
of the petitioner is that it was the Rajah that appealed to the voters to vote for 
the respondent as a member of the Thevar community and as one who is fit to 
occupy the seat after the demisc of U . Muthuramalinga Thevar who represented 


Malayalee Nair from Kerala 


674 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 / PHALGUNA I, 1886 


[Part II -- 


59. A copy of the " Dhina -Malar , a Daily published on 11th April 1964 , is 
marked as Ex , A - 13 . Exs. A - 14 and A - 15 are parts of the same. The News Editor 
of this Daily is P . W . 9 and the Correspondent on whose report the publication 
was based , has been examined as P . W . 10 . The latter stated that he is a native of 
Sattur, and that he attended the election meeting on 9th April 1964 and heard the 
speeches of the local people in that gathering, besides that of the prominent 
speakers , the respondent and the Rajah . His further evidence in chief -examina 
tion was that he heard the speeches and recorded the same and sent his note to 
the " Dhina -Malar" office by post in original. According to him , Ex . A - 13 is 
based on his report. P . W . 9 , Sri Adhinarayanan the News Editor of " Dhina 
Malar" , stated that P . W . 10 had been directed to cover election meetings at Sattur 
and send reports and that on his report, Ex , A - 13 was published . He asserted that 
in Exs. A - 14 and A - 15 , he had not added a word himself. According to him , the 
reports from the Correspondent are destroyed for want of space after some 
time. P . W . 10 had studied upto the I Form . He admitted that he does not know 
shorthand . But he noted important portions of the speeches and without cor 
lection he sent the same to the " Dhina -Malar" office . According to him , the 
Rajah spoke for one hour . He noted the names of the other speakers also at the 
meeting and sent the same to the office . But their names do not find a place in 
Ex . A - 13 . His first version was that the notes taken hy him as such without 
taking a copy or correcting it was despatched to the Dhina Malar ofice . The 
second version which he gave in answer to a question by the Tribunal was that 
he used to jot down the notes on one side paper , that on the night he prepared 
th report on a better paper and that the consolidated report was despatched to 
the Dhina Malar office . It has also been elicited in cross - examination that from 
the notes relating to eight meetings, a single report to Dhina Malar omce was 
prepared and sent by him . It is , therefore, very doubtful whether at Sattur meeting 
where there were speakers other than the Rajah , the latter would have uttered 
the words ascribed to him in Ex , A - 13 which is alleged to be based on the report of 
P . W . 10 . 

60. P . W . 10 did not impress me as a person who has any regard for truth . 
Though he has been a Correspondent for the " Dhina Malar" for a decade, he 
would go to the extent of saying that he does not know the Editor of that 
Daily . But subsequently he admitted that P . W . 9 is the Editor , 

61. The Rajah , as R . W . 17 , admitted that in the meeting he said that hc would 
work against his brother , the respondent, if he stood on any other ticket except 
the Congress and that there is no other Party except the Congress to rule the 
land - See paragraphs 15 and 52 of his deposition . In the " Dhina Malar " ( vide 
Exs. A - 16 and A - 13 ) issue these two statements find a place. It was therefore 
urged on petitioner s behalt that the reporting is fully correct. The suggested 
conclusion cannot be drawn from the fact that in regard to a part of the Rajah s 
speech , there is a correct reporting. 

62. Thus, no reliance could be placed upon the publication in the Dhina Malora 
in regard to the speech of the Rajah at Sattur meeting. 

83. Ex , A - 17 is a copy of the Daily "Maalai-Murasu " bearing the date 13th 
April 1984 . The other document Ex . A - 18 is part of it. The two persons con 
cerned with this document are P . W . 27 , the Editor of the "Maalai-Murasu " and 
P . W . 28 , its Correspondent at Sattur. 

64. The evidence of P . W . 28 was that he attended inportant election meetings, 
made notes and sent them to the Madural office and that Ex . A - 18 is based on his 
report complctely . He admitted that the headlines may not be from his report. 
According to him , at the Sattur meeting which he attended, the respondent and 
the Rajah and some Congressmen spoke. In his deposition , I have recorded the 
Tamil words used by him as having been uttered by the Rajah at the meeting . 
That part runs to nearly a page , One cannot understand how at this distance of 
time, this Correspondent, who must have been gathering news at different places 
attending several meetings of different types , was able to recollect and reproduce 
the words uttered by the Rajah . He asserted that apart from the date in Ex . 
A - 16 nothing else had been altered from his report . He admitted that he did not 
visit the five villages referred to in Ex . A - 18 . According to him , he had a talk 
with those persons who had visited the villages and given a gist of the same in his 
report. He stated that he threw away his notes after drafting his report to the 
oflice. Though in chief - examination he would assert that the respondent said 
that he was standing on the Congress ticket, that he was desirous to serve the 
people and that they should all cast their votes for him , he admitted that in his 
report he did not embody that the respondent addressed the gathering. This 
significant omission would very much detract the value of his report. From the 
witness -box he referred to the Thennali Raman Story as having been given by 


See , 8 (U )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1985 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


675 


the Rajah at the meeting and as having been made part of his report , to the 
" Maalai-Murasu " office. That story is not found in Ex . A - 18 . Thus , it is not safe 
to rely upon Ex. A - 18 and conclude that the Rajah must have uttered the words 
ascribed to him therein and at the Sattur meeting . 

09 . The petitioner has thus failed to establish that at the Sattur meeting the 
respondent and the Rajah , committed the corrupt practice as alleged in the 
application . 

06 . The averment in the application is to the effect that on 10th April 1964, the 
Rajah and the respondent addressed a meeting at Sivakasi, Thayilpatti and other 
places. But evidence was adduced in regard to a meeting that was held at Siva 
kasi alone. 

67, P . W . 25 , Rajasekharan , a native of Sivakasi, stated that at about 10 r . M . 
the mecting was held , that 3, 000 persons were present in that mecting place and 
that the majority of the same was from the Thevar community . According to 
him , the Rajah , the respondent and a few others spoke at that meeting. He is not 
a member of any political party . His evidence was that the Rajah said that if 
votes are cast to one, set up by the opposite party , who is a Nair from Kerala , it 
would not be possible to honour the seat that had been occupied by Sri Muthu 
ramalinga Thevar, that to honour him , his brother who belongs to the Tamil Nad , 
that is the respondent, should be given the votes and that the Congress must be 
made to achieve victory . He further stated that after the Rajah s speech the 
respondent rose up and said that on his behalf his elder brother had given some 
ideas and that they may be borne in mind and that votes should be given to him 
as he belongs to the Thevar community . He appears to be very anxious about 
the petitioner s success in this application . He would go to the extent of saying 
that by looking at a man he could say whether he is of Thevar, or Nadar, or 
Chettiar community , and that with that capacity he made out that the majority 
who attended the meeting werc Thevars . Though he may assert , it may be 
safely stated that it is impossible to find out a man s community from his mere 
personal appearance . Even assuming that such is possible , one cannot say 
whether this witness went about looking at persons in that meeting, or was 
doing the more proper thing of listening to the speakers . His evidence in chief 


He could not have known the community of the persons who had attended the 
meeting. It might be just possible for him to note those few . who were very 
close to him either by his talk with them or by the fact that he had already known 
them , he being a native of Sivakasi, But his evidence that the majority of the 
crowd was from the Thevar community cannot be accepted at all. I cannot rely 
on the testimony of this witness . 

68 . The other witness who also spoke about the meeting at Sivakasi is P . W , 26 , 
K K Swami. He is running a " beeda " stall at Virudhunagar Road . Though in 
chief - examination he asserted that he is a native of Sivakasi, he admitted in cross 
examination that his house is at Thiruthangal. According to him , the Rajah said 
that the respondent who belongs to the Mukkulathor caste , was standing for the 
election , that he was opposed by a Forward Bloc candidate , a Nair by caste , 
bearing the name Velayudha Nair and that the people of the place should elect 
the respondent who belongs to the Thevar community to occupy the seat of 
" Thevar in the Thevar Constituency . His version is not fully consistent with that 
given by P . W . 25 in regard to the words used by the Rajah . It is very doubtful 
whether this witness would have left his " beeda " stall and gone for the meeting . 
He admitted in cross - examination that there is no one else to attend the beeda 
stall and that he would always be having customers . It has not been elicited 


the meeting place when his custom is to keep open his stall even on Sundays. 


69. The evidence of P . W . 26 in cross -examination that as there was " tom - tom " 
that Rajah was going to speak and as there was a notice -board to the effect that 
the Rajah was going to address , he says that the Rajah addressed the meeting, 
would in a way indicate that he could not have attended the meeting. He does 
not appear to be interested in the election , for, he admitted that he did not exer 
cise his franchise at all. Towards the end of the cross-examination he stated that 
he attended a meeting addressed by Sri Rajaji but that he cannot give even the 
substance of that speech . He did not give any special reason why the Rajah s 
speech alone is still fresh in his memory for him to give us the gist of it. His 
evidence has to be rejected . 

70 . The respondent, as R . W . 1 . has stated that he did not address any meeting 
at Sivakasi on 10th April 1964 and that at that time he was at Aruppukottai. 
The Rajah , as R . W . 17 . admitted having addressed the meeting . According to 


676 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


[ PART II -- 


him , a public meeting was arranged at 7. 30 PM , but that it did not take place as 
per schedule ; it commenced only at 10 P . M . He deposed that the respondent did 
not meet him at Sivakási at all on that date . I see no reason to disbelieve him . 
The other witness who has given the negative type of evidence is R . W . 16 , 
Krishnaswami, According to him , the respondent did not attend the meeting at 
Sivakasi; the Rajah spoke at the meeting but that he did not appeal on com 
munal lines at all. His evidence is sought to be discredited on his admission in 
Cross - examination that the majority of the Councillors of the Sivakasi Munici 
pality , in vhich he is a Fitter, belong to the Congress Party . It is too much to 
say that the Party in power in the Sivakasi Municipality would have forced 
RW . 16 to figure as respondent s witness and deny his presence at the meeting 
at Sivakasi on 10th April 1964 and also state that the Rajah addressed on proper 
lines, that is , without committing any corrupt practice as per the definition of the 
term in the Representation of the People Act . Thus, the allegations in the appli 
cation in regard to the meeting at Sivakasi have not been substantiated at all. 


71. The allegations in the application are to the effect that on 11th April 1964 
election meetings were held at Nallur and other places and that the Rajah and 
the respondent addressed the gathering on the lines in which the addresses were 
delivered in the other places . But no evidence was adduced on petitioner s side 
in regard to the election meeting at Nallur. 


72 . The next election meeting is stated to have been held at Tiruchuli on 12th 
April 1964. The witnesses who speak about the Rajah s address in that meeting 
on petitioner s side are P . Ws. 19 to 22 . R . W . 1 (respondent) has denied having 
gone to that meeting. The Rajah has also given similar evidence , that is , that he 
alone had addressed , but not the respondent. The other witness on whom reliance 
19 placed by the respondent to disprove this part of the petitioner s cage is R . W . 2 , 
Sivanarayana Pillai. 


73. P . W . 19, Ramiah Pillai, a native of Thiruchuli and the President of the 
Panchayat, stated that a week before the election date there was a meeting at 
Tiruchuli at Kamraj Maidanam at about 7 . 30 P . M . which was attended by the 
Rajah , Muthuswami Thevar. the Yuva Rajah Kaşinath Dorai ( respondent) and 
some others. His further evidence was that Srirengam Pillai, Perla Rajah ( R . W . 
17 ) , his brother ( R . W . 1 ) and a few others addressed . The Rajah , according to 
him , said that the Congress Party had done much good , that his brother was 
standing on the Congress ticket , that persons should vote for him , that a Malayalee 
Velayudha Nair had been made to stand in that constituency and that in the 
birth place of the Thevar , they had not been able to get a Thevar. In a laughing 
mood , he referred to the speech of the respondent. He admitted in cross -exami 
nation that at Tiruchuli there would be just fifty houses of the Thevar community 
out of the 3 ,500 houses in his place . The Rajah cannot be expected to appeal 
to Thevars when they were in such a negligible minority . His evidence cannot 
be relied upon . 


74 . P . W . 20, Sankaravelu Thevar, also stated that the Rajah addressed the 
gathering followed up by the respondent. The gist of the specch , given by him 
is not consistent with that given by P . W . 19 . He began by saying that people from 
al] villages including Tiruchuli attended the meeting . Evidently he said so be 
cause P . W . 19 who was examined before him gave the number of houses belonging 
to Thevars at Tiruchuli to be Afty out of a total of 3 ,500 houses , and to make it 
oppear that the majority of the persons who came for the meeting was from the 
Thevar community , so that the Rajah could have thought of appealing to the 
Thevars , that is , on communal basis . But the number got reduced to Afty in the 
course of cross -examination . Apart from the Rajah , four other persons are stated 
to have addregsed the gathering. The witness wag giving evidence on 10th 
November 1964 , that is, after the lapse of about seven months from the date of 
the meeting . It is very strange that he is able to recollect the words uttered by 
the Rajah and those by Srirengam Pillai, one of the speakers . I cannot rely on 
his testimony . 


75 . The next witness , P . W . 21 , Sangu Pandithan , stated that he attended the 
election meeting at Tiruchuli which was addressed by Srirengam Pillai, the 
Rajah and the respondent. He referred to the gist of the speech by each one of 
them . According to him , one Chokkalingam Pillai also addressed the gathering 
and requested the voters to vote for the respondent. But when he was asked 
about the further speech of Chokkalingam , he stated that he did not know . One 
cannot understand how he was inclined to hear fully the speech of the Ratah and 
Srirengam Pillai and how he is now able to remember those words at this distance 
of time, that is , after the lapse of about seven months from the date of the meeting . 


SEC, 8(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 /PHALGUNA I, 1886 


677 


76 . P . W . 22, Guruswami Pillai, a native of Tiruchuli, was the last person to 
speak about the Tiruchuli meeting on the petitioner s side. The meeting according 
to him commenced at about 7 P . M . and the speakers were Srirangam Pillai, the 
Rajah , Chokkalingam Pillai and the respondent. Though P . W . 20 would assert 
that people from all the villages attended the meeting , it has been elicited from 
this witness that those in the surrounding villages alone attended the meeting . 
His evidence appears artificial, He owns a house. But he stated that he does not 
remember its door number . Somehow , he remembers the speech of one of the 
speakers at an election meeting held several months back , that is , the Rajah . 

77. R . W . 2 , Sivanarayana Pillai, a native of Tiruchuli, who was the President 
of the Panchayat for three decades, stated that the Rajah addressed the election 
meeting held at Tiruchuli, that the respondent did not attend the meeting at all, 
and that there was no appeal on communal lines. He was a member of the Con 
gress Party between 1928 and 1937. Then he joined the Forward Bloc; but, from 
1958 , according to him , he has not been a member of any political party. The 
Panchayat Board admittedly instituted an action against him . But he would go 
to the extent of saying that he does not remember who the plaintiff s Vakil was . 
He said that he knew the Rajah and the respondent for forty years . To prove 
that this witness is purposely suppressing the fact that the petitioner herein was 
the Counsel for the plaintiff in the civil suit referred to above, the petitioner 
Aled I. A . No. 2 of 1965 for admitting the certified copy of the Suit Register Extract 
relating to that suit. That application was opposed . It being a public document, 
and as admittedly the Panchayat Board had filed a suit against RW . 2 , that appli 
cation was allowed and the document was marked as Ex . A - 25 . A perusal of 
Ex . A - 25 would show that it was Sri Velayudha Nair , the petitioner herein , that 
had appeared for the plaintiff in that suit. Thus, the evidence of RW . 2 


Rajah , it must be held that the former did not attend the meeting at 
Tiruchuli and that the latter did not appeal to the voters on the ground that the 
respondent is a Thevar and should be fully supported and that the petitioner 
should not , he being a Malayalee Nair from Kerala . I have already stated how 
the evidence of the four witnesses , P .Ws. 19 to 22, cannot be relied upon . 

78. We now come to the last of the places, that is, Aruppukottai, in which the 
election meeting is alleged to have been held on 13th April 1964, supporting the 
candidature of the respondent. The petitioner examined two witnesses ( P .Ws. 28 
and 24 ) to substantiate the allegations contained in the application . The rebuttal 
evidence is given by R .Ws. 1 , 6 and 17, the Rajah , 

79 . P . W . 23 , Ethirajulu Nayudu , stated that at Şivan -koil Maidanam , a meeting 
was held , that there was a crowd of 4 ,000 persons, that the speakers were 
Kadambavana Sundaram , Srirengam Pillai, the Rajah and the respondent and 


4 ,000 in chief-examination somchow got swelled to 6 , 000 when we come to cross 
examination . The increase is not without significance . Evidently , the witness felt 
that it should be made to appear that the appeal by the Rajah which was on wrong 
lines , reached many ears . P . W . 23 did not answer questions properly in cross 
examination . He admitted that there was nothing special for him to attend the 
meeting. He would give the date of the meeting as the 13th . But when he was 
asked about the meeting presided over by Sri Rajaji, he stated that he does not 
know the same. No reliance could be placed upon the evidence of this witness . 

80 . P . W . 24 , Sri Kamakshi Chettiar, a native of Aruppukottai, and a Municipal 
Councillor of that place , stated that a meeting was held on the 13th , that is , two 
days before the Election , and that 6 , 000 persons would have attended it. Such 


version of P . W . 23 . It does not very much matter whether the crowd was 4 ,000 
or 6 ,000 . But from the way in which this witness gave evidence , the conclusion 
that it is artificial seems to be irresistible . As soon as he entered the witness 
box , he turned round and stood with folded hands on seeing the picture of 
Gandhiji in the Court -hall. Thereafter alone, the Chief- examination commenced . 
There must be some purpose for the witness to do so . This witness does not 
remember the date on which he addressed his own election meeting . I have 
already stated that he is a Municipal Councillor . In chief - examination he gave 
the Rajah s speech which runs to a little over two pages . He would say that he 
had repeated the words used by the Rajah , It is impossible at this distance of 
time to repeat the very words used by the Rajah which runs to two pages, for 
a person who is not able to remember the date on which he addressed his own 
election meeting . 

81. R . W . 6 , Malliah Sarma, a native of Aruppukottai who is running a javuli 
and maligai business , stated that the Rajah alone addressed the meeting , that 


678 


. 


GA 


I 


A : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 /PHALGUNA I , 1886 


PART II 


the respondent did not attend it at all and that he is able to remember the 
opening words of the Rajah , The Rajah , as R . W . 17 , admitted having addressed 
the meeting at Arupukottal on 13th April 1964 at about 9 . 30 P .M . but stated that 
the respondent did not attend it at all and that he never made any appeal on 
communal lines . He stated that he never referred to the petitioner as " Malayalee 
Nair " . R . W , 1 , the respondent, said that on 13th April 1964, he did not address 
any meeting at Tiruchuli but he spent the night at Thirumalai-andan - koil, R . W . 
5 , Meenakshisondaram Pillai, who is a Trustee of the Thirugnanasambandar 
Madam at that place, has also stated that on the night in question at about 7 . 30 , 
the respondent came to halt at the Madam and that on the next morning ke left 
the place. The burden of showing that at Aruppukottai the respondent and the 
Rajah addressed the gathering and that their speech was as alleged in the appli 
cation lies heavily on the petitioner and it has not been discharged at all. 

82. My Andings on Issues 1 and 2 are that the respondent is not guilty of the 
corrupt practicos of having appealed to the voters to vote for him on the ground 
of his caste and community , as set forth in paragraph 8 and sub - paragraphs 8 ( a ) 
to 8 (n ) of the application , and that he is also not guilty of the corrupt practice 
of having appealed to the voters to refrain from yoting for the petitioner on the 
ground of his caste, community , region and language, as alleged in the same para 
graphs. The first part of Issue No. 4 is found against the petitioner . The latter 
half of Issue No. 4 does not arise for consideration . 

83 . Issue Nos . 3 and 5 . — The averment in paragraph 12 of the main application 
is that by the " systematic speeches and campaigns, the first respondent and 
persons who spoke with his consent, for the furtherance of the prospects of the 
respondent and for prejudicially affecting the election of this petitioner , there 
was promotion or in any event attempt to promote feelings of enmity and hatred 
between the Mukkulathors of Tamilnad and the Malayalam Nairs of Kerala , all 
citizens of India , on grounds of race , caste , community and language " . While 
discussing the evidence adduced on cither side under Issue Nos . 1 , 2 and 4 , I have 
held that there was no appeal by the respondent or the persons referred to in 
paragraphs 8 ( a ) to 8 ( n ) of the application to the voters to vote for him (res 
pondent) on the ground of his caste , community , region and language, and not to 
vote for the petitioner on the ground of his (petitioner s ) caste , community , region 


were mainly admitted to have been made by the Rajah ( R . W . 17 ), and at one 
place , that is Elayirampannai, by the respondent there was any attempt to pro 
mote feelings of enmity and hatred between the Mukkulathors of Tamilnad , to 
which the Returned Candidate belongs, and the Malayalam Nairs of Kerala , to 
which the petitioner , the unsuccessful candidate , belongs . Both the issues are 
found against the petitioner , 

84 . Issue No . 6 . - This issue would arise for consideration only if it is held 
that there was a corrupt practice as contemplated under Section 123 ( 3 ) of the 
Representation of the People Act. As Issues 1 to 5 have been found against the 
petitioner , this issue should also be found against him , Further , no attempt was 
made by the petitioner to show that the alleged appeals materially affected the 
result of the Election . The petitioner had secured 1,31, 281 votes . The Returned 
Candidate got 1 , 38, 358 votes. The difference is 7 , 077. There is no evidence to . 
show how many of the voters who attended the several election meetings were 
influenced by the alleged appeals. I have already stated that though reference is 
made in the application to speeches made by the Rajah and other persons on 
behalf of the respondent in as many as thirty named villages , besides other 
places, the petitioner attempted to prove the allegations in the application in 
regard to a few of them , that is , eight. This issue is also found against the 
petitioner . 

85 . Isane Nos. 7 to 0 . - On 30th October 1964 , the first witness for the petitioner 
was examined . A few days thereafter , that is, on 5th November 1964 , an endorse 
ment was made by the petitioner and his counsel on the application itself that 
no evidence will be adduced in regard to these Issues. In consonance with that 
endorsement, the petitioner did not adduce any evidence. Therefore there was no 
rebuttal evidence as well. These three issues are found against the petitioner , 

80. Issile No. 10 . - On my findings on Issues 1 to 6 , it follows that the election 
of the respondent ( first respondent) cannot be declared void . My finding is that 
the election of the first respondent to the House of the People , representing the 
Aruppukottai Parliamentary Constituency of the Madras State is not void . 

87. Issue No. 11. — The petitioner has talled to substantiate the allegations in 
the application in regard to the corrupt practices either by the respondent or 
by any one who could be designated as his agent , or by other persons, with his 


SEC, 3( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


679 


consent. The petitioner cannol therefore be declared as the duly elected Member 
of the Parliament from the Aruppukottai Constituency. The issue is found 
accordingly . 

66 . Issue No . 12 , — The petitioner is not entitled to any of the reliefs prayed for, 
The application is dismissed under Section 96 of the Reprezentation of the People 
Act with costs. The petitioner has failed to prove any of the corrupt practices 
alleged in the application . The contesting respondent ( first respondent) , the 
Returned Candidato alone is entitled to claim costs . Having regard to the 
number of days spent for the trial of the application and the witnesses examined 
on either side, I fix the Advocate s fee at Rupees One Thousand Five Hundred . 


89. I thank the two Counsels for the petitioner , Sri R . Harihara Ayyar and 
Sri B . Sankaranarayana Ayyar, and the Counsels for the respondent, Sri S . 
Narayanaswami Sastri and Sri P , Subramaniam , for the very valuable assistance 
which they rendered in the conduct of this case during the three months in 
which the application was heard . 


Dictated to the steno - typist , transcribed by him , corrected and pronounced by 
me in open Court, this the 20th day of January , 1965. 

( Sd .) T . S . ANAVARADHAM , 

Election Tribunal. 

Ramanathapuram at Madurai. 
LIST OF DOCUMENTS FILED 


By the Petitioner : 


A - 1, 11th April 1984 - Copy of the Daily " Navamani" for the date 11th 

April 1964 , for the Madras City , and 12th April 1864, for moffusal. 
A - 2 , 14th April 1984_ Copy of the Daily “ Navamani" for the date 14th April 

1964, for the Madras City , and 15th April 1984 , for moffuşal, 
A - 3, 11th April 1964 — Portion marked in red colour in Ex . A - 1. 
A - 4 , 11th April 1964 – Portion marked in red colour in Ex . A - 1 . 
A -5 , Manuscript matter placed with P . W . 3 for printing. 
A - 6 , Printed proof in respect of Ex . 5 - A . 
A - 7, 27th March 1964 -Counterfoil of (No. 73 ) order placed with P . W . 3 . 
A - 8 , Printed notice out of Ex , A - 6 . 
A - 9, Specimen order form ( in print) of P . W . 3 s Press. 
A - 10 , Manuscript matter for printing placed with P . W . 4 . 
A - 11 , 4th April 1964 — Counterfoil of bill (No. 1056 ) of P . W . 4 . 
A - 12 . Printed Tour -programme of Sri R . Shanmuga Rajeswara Sethupathi, 

M . L . A ., in Mudukulattur Taluk . 
A - 13 , 11th April 1964 - Portion marked at page 6 of the " Dhina -Malar " issue 

dated 11th April 1964 ( Columns 4 , 5 and 6 ) . 
A - 14, 11th April 1964Portion marked at page 6 of thc " Dhina -Malar" issue 


A - 15 , 11th April 1964 - Headlines (marked ) at page 6 of the “ Dhina-Malar " 

issue, dated 11th April 1964 ( For Exs . A - 13 and A - 14 ) . 
A - 16 . 7th April 1964 - Portion marked at page 1 of the issue " Dhina 

Malar " , dated 7th April 1964 (Columns 3 to 6 ) . 
A - 17 , 13th April 1964- - Copy of " Maalai-Murasu " for the date . 
A - 18 , 13th April 1964Portion marked at page 4 (Columns 3 and 4 ). 
A - 19, 13th April 1964. – Marked portion in Ex . A - 1. 
A - 20 , Part of Ex. A -4 (Ex. A - 19 ) indicated in pencil. 
A - 21, Part of Ex. A - 4 ( Ex. A - 19 ) indicated in pencil. 
A - 22, Red -marked part of Ex. A - 2. 
A - 23, Pencil -marked part in Ex. A - 22 . 
A - 24, 6th April 1964 - Reverse side of Ex. B - 17. 
A - 25. 22nd December 1964 - Certified copy of the Extract from the Suit 

Register relating to O . S . No. 290 / 1962, D . M , C . Manamadurai. 


680 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965/ PHALGUNA 1, 1888 [PART II 


By the first Respondent ; 
B -1, 25th March 1964 - Counterfoil of Order No. 68 placed with P .W . 3 s 

Press . 
B -2 , 25th March 1984 - - Counterfoil of Order No. 69 placed with P .W . 3 s 

Press . 
B -3 . 25th March 1964 — Counterfoil of Order No. 70 placed with P . W . 3 s 

Press . 
B - 4 , 25th March 1964 - - Counterfoil of Order No. 71 placed with P .W . 3 s 

Press . 
B - 5. 28th March 1964- - Counterfoil of Order No. 72 placed with P .W . 3 s 

Press. 
B -6 . 27th March 1964 - Counterfoil of Order No . 74 placed with P . W . 3 5 

Press . 
B - 7 , 30th March 1964 - Counterfoil of Order No. 75 placed with P . W . 3 $ : 

Press . 
B - 8 , 11th April 1984 - Headlines at page 5 ( columns 5 and 6 ) of the " Dhina 

Malar" iggue, dated 11th April 1964 . 
B - 9, 7th April 1964 — Headlines at page 1 (columns 1 to 8 ) of the " Dhina 

Malar " issue, dated 7th January 1964. 
B - 10 , 13th April 1964 — Portion marked in the " Maalai-murasu ” for the date . 

( Ex . A - 17 ) ( Page 1 ) (Columns 1 and 2 ) . 
B - 11 , Report of the Peishkar of Rameswaram Temple . 
B - 12 , Entry at page 20 of the Parivattam Register of the Rameswaram 

Devasthanam , 
B - 13 , Office - note and orders for offer of Parlvattam 

(Page 7 from a file ) . 
B - 14 , 7th April 1964 — General Diary Entry at page 6 of the Aruppukottai 

Town Police - station . 
B - 15 , 7th April 1964._ -Entry for the date in the note book (Page 61) kept 

by R . W . 11. 
B - 16 , 7th April 1964 – Welcome address presented to the Chief Minister by 

R . W . 12 ( rendered to print ) . 
B - 17 , 6th April 1964 - Entry at page 9 of the General Diary of the Tiruchuli: 

Police -station . 
B - 18 , 9th April 1984 – Entry at page 9 of the General Diary of the Narikudi 

Police- station . 
B - 19, 7th April 1964 to 10th April 1964 — Note book entries for the dates: 
maintained by R . W . 15 . 

LIST OF WITNESSES EXAMINED 
By the Petitioner: 

1. Șri O . Ramalingam (Editor, " Navamani" ) , 
2 . Sri B . Kalyanasundaram (Staff -Correspondent, " Navamani" ) . 
3 . Şri Soundarapandian (Proprietor, " Udaya -Suryan Acchakam " ). 
4 . Sri Sundaralingam ( Proprietor , " Siddhi Vinayagar Press" ) . 
5 . Sri Guruswami Chettiar . 
6 . Sri Subbiah Thevar . 
7. Sri Singarama Konar . 
8 . Sri Ramakrishnan . 
9. Sri Adhinarayanan (News Editor, " Dhina-Malar" ).. 
10 . Sri Mottayandi. 
11 . Sri Balakrishnan . 
12 . Sri Sornamani Nadar. 
13 . Sri Chairman , 
14 . Sri Palaniappan , 
15 . Sri Chelllah Thevar . 
18 . Sri Raju Thevar , 


Sec, 3( 11 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA I, 1886 


681 


17. Sri Bhaskaran . 
18 . Sri Rakkana Thevar. 
19. Sri Ramiah Pillai. 
20 . Sri Sankaravelu Thevar. 
21. Sri Sangu Pandithan . 
22 . Sri Gurusami Plllai. 
23 . Sri Ethirajulu Nayudu . 
24 . Sri Kamakshi Chettiar . 
25 . Sri Rajasekaran . 
26 . Sri K . K . Sami. 
27. Sri N , Natarajan (Editor, "Maalai-Murasu " ). 
28 . Sri Ponmal Adigal. 

29 Sri M . Shanmugavel (News Editor, " Navamani" ). 
By the first Respondent: 

1. Sri R . Kasinath Dorai ( first respondent ). 
2 . Sri Slvanarayana Pillal, 
3 . Sri Subbiah Thevar . 
4 . Sri Karuppagami Thevar , 
5 . Sri Meenakshigundaram Pillai. 
6 . Sri Malllah Şarma. 
7 . Sri Shanmugha Nadar. 
8 . Sri Krishna Thevar, 
9. Sri Dorai Nadar. 
10 . Sri Srinivasaraghavan . 
11. Sri Natarajan ( Sub - Inspector of Police ) , 
12. Sri Ochappan . 
13 . Sri Devarajan (Police - constable 1993 ) . 
14 . Sri Sankaran Pillai (Sub Inspector of Police ) . 
15 . Sri K . Subramaniam ( Sub Inspector of Police ). 
16 . Sri Krishnaswami. 
17. Sri Shanmuga Rajeswara Sethupathi (Member , Legislative Assembly ). 
18 . Sri Dhanushkodi Nadar. 
19 . Sri Ramamoorthi (Clerk , H .R . & C .E . Department ). 

( Sd.) T . S . Anavaradham , 

Election Tribunal, 
Ramanathapuram at Madurai. 


[ No. 82/ 13 /84. ] 

By Order , 
A . N . SEN , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 8th February 1965 


S . O . 593. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 2 ) 
of section 81 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and in supersession 
of its notification No . 83 / 84 , dated the 30th December, 1964, the Election Com 
mission hereby appoints Shri A . N . Sen , Under Secretary to the Election Com 
mission as an officer who may also receive electionpetitions presented in 
accordance with the provisions contained in Part VI of the said Act . 

[No. 83 /65.] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


[PART II 


New Delhi, the 11th February 1965 
S .O . 594 . — The following Order of the Chief Election Commissioner is 
published for general information : 

ORDER No. 18 
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 8 of the Two-Member Consti 
tuencies ( Abolition ) Act , 1961, I hereby make the following corrections in 
Schedule VII of the Delimitation of Parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies 
Order, 1961 : 

In part B of the said Schedule , 

(1) in the entry in column 2 against 94 -Kangayam , for " Kangayam , Vellakoil 
and Kolumanguli firkas in Dharapuram taluk " read " Kangayam , Vellacoil and 
Uthiyur firkag in Dharapuram taluk " . 

( 11) for entries 97 , 98 , 99 , 167 and 168 , the following shall be substituted: - - 
97. Anamalai (SC ) 
Pollachi taluk ( excluding Ramapatnam , Pollachi, Kolarpatti Koilpalayam 

and Kinathukadavu firkas but including Marchinayakanpalayam 
village in Ramapatnam firka and Thensangampalayam , Somandurai 

and Thenchittur villages in Pollachi Arka ). 
98. Pollachi 
Pollachi Arka (excluding Thengangampalayam , Şomandurai and Thenchit 

tur villages ), Ramapatnam Arka ( excluding Poravipalayam , Serval 
karampalayam and Marchinaichenpalayam villages ) and Kolarpati 

frka in Pollachi taluk , 
99 . Kollpalayam 
Kollpalayam and Kinathukadavu firkas, Poravipalayam and Servalkaram 

palayam villages in Ramapatnam firka in Pollachi taluk ; and Gudi 

mangalam firka in Udamalpet taluk . 
167. Adirampattinam 
Adirampattinam and Madukkur Arkas, Thuvarankurichi firka ( excluding 

Thuvarankurichi, Irumagaleri, Anaikkadu Ponnavarayankottai, 
Vendakottai, Ponnavarayankottai - Ukkadai and Nattuchalai villages ), 
and Alathur and Mahadevapuram villages in Pattukkottai firka in 
Pattukkottai taluk ; and Orathanad and Tondarmpet firkas , Nemmeli 
Thippiakudi village in Silathur Arka and Eachankottai firka ( exclud 
ing the villages specified in item ( 23 ) and ( 27 ) of the Appendix ) in 

orathanad taluk , 
168. Pattukkottal 
Pattukkottai firka (excluding Alattur and Mahadevapuram villages ) and 

Amanichatram , Perayurani, Thiruchitrambalam , Perumagalore , 
Keeramangalam and Andikkadu firkas, and Thuvarankurich , Iru 
magaleri, Anaikkadu , Ponnavarayankottai, Vendakottai, Ponnavara 
yankottal-Ukkadai and Nettuchalai villages in Thuvarankurichi firka, 

in Pattukkottai taluk , 
( iii ) after item 206 , the following note is added , namely : 
" Notę – The reference to districts and other territorial divisions in the 

entries in column 2 against items 87 to 107 and 105 to 169 shall be 
taken to mean the areas comprised therein on the 18t day of August , 
1964 " . 

K . V . K , SUNDARAM , 

Chief Election Commissioner , 
New Delhi, 
Dated the 25th January , 1965. 


[No. 282 /MD / 62.) 

By Order, 
PRAKASH NARAIN , Secy . 


SEC, 8( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


687 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 6th February 1965 
8 . 0 , 595 , In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of 
the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules further to amend 
the Tripura Employees ( Revision of Pay and Allowances ) Rules, 1963, published 
with the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs 
No. S . O . 516 dated the 4th February, 1964 , namely : 

1. These rules may be called the Tripura Employees (Revision of Pay and 
Allowances) Amendment Rules, 1965 . 

2. In Part I of Schedule I to the Tripura Employees ( Revision of Pay and 
Allowances) Rules, 1963 
(1) under the heading " Secretariat" in the instructions relating to Item 1, the 

entries in column 5 shall be omitted , 
( li) under the heading " Industries Department" after item 78 , the following 

entries shall be inserted under columns 1 , 2 , 3 and 4 respectively : 


2 


79 . Medical Officers (Industrial Rs. 150 — 5 - 240 - 10 - 300 

Training Institute). 


(i) Rs. 225 - 10 - 315 - EB 

10 - 325 - 15--- 475. _ (For 
those with M . B . B . S . or 

M . M . F . qualification ) . 
(* ) Rs. 200 - 10 - 290 - 

EB _ - 10 - 400 . (For 
Licentiatcs ) " 


(lil) under the heading " Police Department " after Item 24 , the following 

entries shall be inserted under columns 1 , 2 , 3 and 4 respectively : 


25 . Sub - Inspector of Police 

(Armed and unarmed ) . 


Rs. 150 – 4 - - 194 - EB 

-- 4 - 230 - 5 - 250 , Plus 
Special pay of Rs. 35 /- 
p . m . for special branch 
and Special pay of Rs, 
25/ - p . m . for Police Tra - 
ining School, 


Rs. 200 - 10 - 290 - EB - 10 

- 350 . Plus Special pay of 
of Rs. 35 / - p .m , for special 
branch and Special pay of 
Rs. 25 /- p . m . for Police 
Training School," 


( iv ) under the heading " Public Works Department" after Item 32, the follow 

ing entries shall be inserted under columns 1, 2 , 3 and 4 respectively : -- 


33. Mechanic/ Additional mecha - 

nic , 
" 34 . Assistantmechanic 


Rs. 140 — 5 - -210. 
Rs. 100 — 3 — 136 — 4 — 140 . 


Rs . 110 - 4 - 150. 
Rs. 50 - 1 - - 61 - ER - I- 68 

- 2 - 80 . 
Rs. 200 — 15 - 350 - EB - 25 

- 400 . 


" 35. Power House Supervisor 


Rs. 200 — 10 — 290 — EB - - 10 

-- 400 " 


[No. 2 / 57 /63-MT.] 
J, N . GUPTA , Under Secy . 


684 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 /PHALGUNA I, 1886 [PART II 


New Delhi, the 8th February 1965 
8 . 0 . 596 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Delhi 
Special Police Establishment Act , 1946 ( 25 of 1946 ) , the Central Government hereby 
specifies the following offences and classes of offences in addition to those 
specified in the Notifications of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs ( Administrative Vigilance Division ) Nos, 25 / 12 / 62 -AYD - I, dated the 18th 
February , 1963 as amended by Notifications No . 25 / 3 / 80 -AYD - II, dated the 1st 
April, 1984 and 25 / 9 /64 -AVD , dated the 1st September , 1964 for the purpose of 
the said section , namely : 

(i) Offences punishable under section 9 of the Opium Act, 1878 ( 1 of 1878 ) , 
( il) Offences punishable under sections 10 , 11, 12 , 13, 14 , 15 , 16 , 17, 19 , 20 
and 21 of the Dangerous Drugs Act, 1930 ( 2 of 1930 ) . 

[No. 228 / 1 / 65 ( 1 ) -AVD .II. ) 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 8th February , 1965 
8 . 0 . 597. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Delhi Special 
Police Establishment Act, 1946 ( 25 of 1946 ) , the Central Government hereby 
extends the powers and jurisdiction of members of the Delhi Special Police Estab 
lishment to the States of Madhya Pradesh and Kerala for the investigation of 
offences punishable under section 9 of the Opium Act, 1878 ( 1 of 1878 ) , and under 
sections 10 , 11, 12 , 13, 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 , 19 , 20 and 21 of the Dangerous Drugs Act, 
1930 ( 2 of 1990 ) . 

[No . 228 / 1 / 65 - ( II) - AVD - II.] 
A . P . VEERA RAGHAVAN , Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 11th February 1965 
9 . 0 . 598 . - In pursuance of clause ( 1 ) of article 239 of the Constitution and 
in partial modification of the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Home Affairs No . F . 2 / 12 / 61- Judi, II, dated the 18th December, 1961 
[ published as S . O . 2993 in the Gazette of India , Part II , sub - section ( ii ) of section 
3 dated the 23rd December, 1961 ), the President hereby directs that the powers 
and functions of the State Government under section 27 of the Road Transport 
Corporation Act 1950 ( 84 of 1950 ) shall, subject to the control of the President 
and until further orders , be exercised and discharged by the Lieutenant Governor 
of the Union territory of Himachal Pradesh and the Chief Commissioner of the 
Union territory of Tripura within their respective jurisdiction . 

[NO. F . 2 / 1 / 65 -UTL . ) 
K . R . PRABHU , Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 11th February 1965 
S . O . 599. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of article 258 
of the Constitution , the President hereby entrusts to the Government of Mysore , 
with the consent of that Government, the functions of the Central Government 
under the Land Acquisition (Mysore Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961 
(Mysore Act 17 of 1961) in relation to acquisition of land in the State of Mysore 
for the purposes of the Union . 

[No. F . 19 / 12 / 65- J. II . } 
B . SHUKLA , Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 11th February 1965 
8 . O . 600. - The Central Government is pleased to notify that Raja Bahadur 
(Yuvraj) Ranjit Singh son of Maharaja of Samthar has been nominated by the said 
Ruler for the purpose of entry 2 ( b ) of Schedule I annexed to the Ministry of Home 
Affairs NotiAcation No. 15 / 13 /59 ( V ) - P . IV , dated the 13th July , 1962 (GSR No. 991 
published in the Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 , Sub - section ( 11) , dated the 
28th July , 1962 ), 

[No. 16 / 2 / 65- P . IV . ] 
G . L . BAILUR , Under Secy . 


SEC , 3(1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 /PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


685 


गृह मंत्रालय 
The fact 11 , 970ft, 1965 


एस० प्रो० नं0 601 --भारत सरकार को यह अधिसूचित करते हुए हर्ष है कि 
समथर के महाराजा के पुत्र राजा बहादुर ( युवराज ) रणजीत सिंह उक्त शासक द्वारा गृह 
# TTY 13 75T 1962 # 1 TAGIT FELT 15 / 13/59- ( v ) Tro ( iv ) of ATT 
para 47 97 # i #tafafe 2 ( ) 777 1197 HTT II TUS 3 34- 40 % ( ii ) 
fattia 28 T , 1962 * TFifTT STO TO ArTo Fr 991 # PTT ATT 
FAIT TO 

(Four 16 /2/ 65 fo iv ) 

__ जी० एल० बेलूर, 
qat afa4, 9734 FIAT i 


New Delhi, the 12th February, 1965 
8 . 0 . 602 .- In pursuance of clause (2 ) of article 222 of the Constitution , the 
President hereby makes the following order , namely : 

That Shri Justice Ramaswami Lakshmi Narasimham , who was transferred from 
the Orissa High Court to the Patna High Court shall be entitled to receive in addi 
tlon to his salary , a compensatory allowance at the rate of rupees four hundred 
per mensem for the period of his service as Chief Justice of the Patna High Court. 

[No. 6 / 1 / 65 - Judi. I.] 
P . K . DAVE , Jt. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

(Department of Expenditure ) 

New Delhi, the 9th February 1965 
S . O . 603 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules namely : 

1 . Short title . — These rules may be called the Ministry of Finance, Depart 
ment of Expenditure ( Assistants excluded from the Central Secretariat Service ) 
Reoruitment Rules , 1965 . 

2 . Application - These rules shall apply to the posts specified in the column 
1 of the Schedule annexed hereto . 

3 . Number of posts , Classification , scale of pay etc . The number of posts , 
their classification and the scale of pay attached thereto are as specified in 
columns 2 to 4 to the said Schedule . 

4 . Method of recruitment, age limit, qualifications, etc . The method of re 
cruitment to the posts , age limit, educational qualifications and other matters 
connected therewith shall be as specified in columns 5 to 14 of the said Schedule, 

5 . Disqualifications . ( a ). No. person who has more than one wife living or 
who , having a spouse living , marties in any case in which such marriage, is 
void by reason of its taking place during the life time of such spouse, shall be 
eligible for appointment to service ; and 

( b ) No woman whose marriage is void by reason of the husband having a 
wife llving at the time of such marriage, or who has married a person who has 
a wife living at the time of such marriage, shall be eligible for appointment to 
the service: 
Provided that the Central Government may , if satisfied that there are 

special grounds for so ordering, exempt any person from the opera 
tion of this rule . 


686 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


[PART II- 


SCHE 
Recruitment rules for Assistant (Excluded from the C .S. S. 


Name of No. of post 
Post 


Classifica - Scalc of pay Whcther Age Educa - Whether 
tion 

sclection limit tional and age and 

post or for other educa 
non direct qualifica - tional 
selec - recruits . tione qualifications 
tion 

required prescribed 
post . 

for for the 

direct 
recruits . recruits 

will 
apply in 
the case of 
promo 
tees. 


direct 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


Assistant 


22 


N . A . 


N .A . 


N . A . 


General Rs. 210 - -- 10 N . A . 
Further strength Central 270 _ 15 - - 300 
to be determined Service - EB - 15 - 450 
from time to (Class II) - BB - 20 
time in accor- (Minis - 530 , 
dance with the terial) 
provisions of (Non ( emolumnents 
Rule 7 of the (Gazetted ) of persons 
Central Secre 

appointed 
tariat Service 

will be regu 
Rules , 1962 , 

lated by 
current 
Government 
orders relat 
ing to dcpu 
tation allowan 
ces ). 


NOTE . N . A . 


Sco , 3 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1968 / PHALGUNA 1, 1888 


687 


DULE 
In the Ministry of Finance (Department of expenditure ) 


REMARKS 


Period Method of recruit - In case of recruit - If a Circums 

ment whether by ment by promotion , Depart - tanccs 
probn- direct recruitment deputation , transfer , mental in which 
tion , 

or by deputation , grades from which Promo- UPSC is 
if any . transfer and percen promotion , deputa - tion to be 

tage of the vacancies tion , transfer to be Com consulted 
to be filled by 

made. 

mittee in making 
various methods. 

exists recruit 
what ment, 
is its 

com 
position , 


IO 


II 


12 


13 


14 


N . A . 


N . A . 


By transfer on depu - 
tation ; Period of 
deputation normally 
3 years which may 
be extended by 
controlling autho - 
rity in the interest 
of public service , 


From the grade of 
Accountants of 
Indian Audit and 
Accounts Depart 
ments, Defence 
Accounts Depart 
ment and Senior 
Accountants of Posts 
& Telegraphs Depart 
ment. 


As re - These posts will be 
quired treated as excluded 
under from the CSS so long 
the rules , as they are held by 

S . A . S . Accountants 
from the Indian Audit 
& Accounts Depart 
ment, 

Defence 
Accounts Depart 
ments and Sentor 
Accountants from 
Posts & Telegraphs 
Departments , and 
will be treated as 
included when held 
by Assistants of the 
Central Secretariat 
Service . 


- Not applicable . 


[No. 9 ( 2 ) - E .I.( B ) / 83 .) 
PREM NATH , Dy . Secy. 


( Bepartment of Economic Adairs) 


1688 


New Delhi, the 15th February 1965 
$ . 0 . 604 . - Statemeat of tbe Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India, as on the sth February , 1965 


BANTING DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


R 


Capital paid up 


. 


. 


. 


. 


500,00,000 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


25 ,52,54 ,000 

3 ,35 ,020 
11,38 , 000 


Rezerve Fund 


80 ,00 ,00 , 000 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:FEBRUARY20,1965/PHALGUNA1,1886 


National Agricultural Credit (Long 

Tema Operations ) Fand 


. 


Notes . . . . . 
Rupce Cojo . . . 
Small Coin 
Bitls purchased and discounted : 

(a ) Internal 
(b ) External 

(c) Government Treasury Bills 
Balances beld Abroad * 
(rvestments* * . . . . 
Loans and · Advances to : 

Central Government 
(a ) State Governments 


86 ,00,00,000 


Ngional Agricultors } Credit 

( Stabilisatiin ) Fund 
National Lodutrial Credit (Long 

Term Operations ) Fund . . 


66 , 52, 97 , 000 

5 ,77 ,63 ,000 
161,65,71, 000 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


10 ,00300 ,000 


46 , 37, 16 , 000 


reposits - 


Loans and Advances to : 

Scheduled Bankst 
(* ) State Co-operative Bankstt 
( ) Others , 


( a ) Gover Deat : 


. 


. 


. 


77 ,45327 , 000 
153,40, 09 ,000 

2 ,63, 09 , 000 


(PARTII 


een 


- 


LIABILITTES 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs 


Central Government 


(H ) State Gov :100 :9t . 


. 


. 


27, 75, 74 ,000 
11, 19, 91,000 


( 5 ) Bunky : 


4 ,45 , 53 ,000 


Scheduled Banks 
(a ) State Co -operative Banks . 
( ) Other Banks 


50 ,31, 87, 000 Loans , advances and Investments from National Agricultural 

Credit Long Term Operations) Pund 
10 ,76 ,67, 70 (a ) LOBOS ard Advances to 

(1) State Governments . . . . . . . 
(ü ) State Cooperative Benks . . . . . . 

(i ) Central Land Mortgage Banks . . . . . . 
(6 ) Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank Derentures 

Loans and Advances from National Agricultural Credit ( Stabilisation ) 
91 , 24 , 10 , 000 Purd 
2 ,77 ,29 ,000 Loans and Advances to State Co -operative Banks 
6 ,32,000 Loans , Advances and Investments from National Industrial Credit 

( Long Term Operations) Pond 
148 ,27 ,73 ,000 (a ) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank 

(6 ) Investment to bonds/debentures issued by the Deve 
53 ,21, 33 ,000 

lopment Bank 
68 ,65, 13, 000 

Other Assets 
615 , 30 , 44 ,000 

Rupees . 


(c ) Others 


SEC,3(1)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:FEBRUARY20,1965/PHALGUNA1,1886 


50 , 18,000 


tils Payable 
Other Liabilities 


31,89,89 ,000 


Rupees 


615 ,30 ,44 , 000 


" Incluides Cash and Short - term Securities . 


* * Excluding investments from the National Agricultural Credit ( Long Term Operations) Fund , and the National Industrial Credit (Long 

Term Operations) Fund . 


@ Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund, but including temporary overdrafts to 

State Governments . 


Includes Rs. 13,05,50 .000 advanced to scheduled banks against wance bills under section 17 (4) (c) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 
HExctuding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operatinas ) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit 

(Stabilisation ) Ruod . 
Dated the Ioth day of February , 1965. 


689 


An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 , for the week ended the 5th day of February , 1965 

ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


690 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


· Rs. 


ASSEIS 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Notes held in the Banking Depart 

ment 
Notes in circulation : : : 

Total Notes issued 


25 , 52 , 54 , 000 
2580596 ,07,000 


128 ,42 ,72 , 000 


2606 ,48 , 55 ,000 


Gold Coin and Bullion : 

(a ) Held in India . . 
(6) Held outside India . . . 
Foreign Securities . . . . 

TOTAL . . 
Rupee Coin 
Government of India Rupee Securities . 
Internal Bills of Exchange and other com 

mercial paper 


74979 ,07,000 


203,21, 79 , 000 

96 , 88 , 18 , 000 
2306, 38 , 58,000 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:FEBRUARY20,1965/PHALGUNA1,1886 


Toral LIABILITIES . 


. 


2.501,43, 55, 000 


TOTAL ASSETS , 


. 


. 


2606 ,48 ,55 ,000 


- 


Dared the Ioth day of February , 1965 . 


PC BHATTACHARYTA , 

Governor . 


[No. F . 342 - BC /65 .] 


R K . SESHADRI, 
Director (Banking ) . 


CORRIGENDUM 
In the statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , Banking Depart 
ment as on 8th January 1965 published in the Gazette of India , dated the 23rd 
January 1965 Part II Section 3 ( ii) on page 343 , the last foot note marked I reading 
Including Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit ( Long 
Term Operations) Find and the National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) 
Fund should read Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricul 
tural Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund and the Național Agricultural Credit 
(Stabilisation ) Hund. 


(PartII 


SEC. $(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


891 


(Department of Revenue ) 

INCOME TAX 

New Delhi, the 15th February 1965 
S . O . 605. - It is hereby notified for general inforrration that the institution 


Research , the " prescribed authority " , for the purposes of clauze ( ii) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 35 of the Income- tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) . 

INSTITUTION 
Research Institute of Ancient Scientific Studies, New Delhi. 

[No. 12 F . No. 10 / 20 / 65 - IT (AI) . ] 

G . R . DESAI, Dy. Secy . 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , BARODA 


MANUFACTURED PRODUCTS 


Baroda , the 15th January 1965 


$ . O . 606 . - In exercise of the powers conferred upon me under Rule 5 of the 
Central Excise Rules, 1944, I hereby delegate , to all the Officers not below the rank 
of the Assistant Collectors of Central Excise in Baroda Collectorate, the power under 
Rule 56 - A of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 , to deal with the applications within 
their respective jurisdiction . They should , however, endorse to this office a copy 
of the permission granted by them . 

[No. 1 /65 . ] 


D . R . KOHLI, Collector, 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE , MADHYA PRADESH 

AND VIDARBHA 


CENTRAL EXCISES 


Nagpur, the 22nd January 1905 


6 . 0 . 60 . In exercise of the powers conferred upon me under Rule 5 of the 
Central Excise Rules , 1944, I hereby authorise the Assistant Collector of Central 
Excise in Madhya Pradesh and Vidarbha Collectorate , Nagpur to exercise the 
powers of the Collector under rule 56 - A of the said rules . 


[ No. 1 /65. ] 
TILAK RAJ, Collector. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 
(Office of the Jt, Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

ORDERS 

Calcutta , the 12th October, 1964 
8 . O . 608 . -- Whereas M / s . India Sewai and Co . Mocliuatoli, Arya Kumar Road, 
Patna, or any Bank or any other person have not come forward furnishing 


692 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1963 /PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


(PART II 


suficient cause against Notice No. 142 / 63 / I & L , dated 16th September 1964 pro 
posing to cancel licence No . A960315 / 62, dated 19th July , 1963, valued at 
Rs. 1, 000 only for import of Glassine Paper , from the General Area except South 
and South West Africa granted to the said M / s . India Sewai and Co . Mochuatoli, 
Arya Kumar Road , Patna, by the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , 
Calcutta . 

The Government of India , in the Ministry of Commerce in exercise of the 
powers conferred by Clause 9 of the Imports (Control) Order , 1955 hereby cancel 
the said licence No. A960315 / 62, dated 19th July 1963 issued to M / s. India Sewai 
and Co. Mochuatoli, Arya Kumar Road , Patna. 

[No. 142 / 83 / I& L . ] 


S . O . 609 . - Whcreas M / s. Shri Laxmi Plastic Works, Manchuatoli, Arya Kumar 
Road , Patna - 4 , or any Bank or any other person haye not come forward furnishing 
sufficient cause against Notice No. 142 / 63 / I & L , dated 16th September 1964 pro 
posing to cancel licencc No. A558434 /62, dated 14th December 1962 valued at 
Rs. 3 , 750 only for the import of Cellulose Acetate Powder from the General Arca 
except South and South West Africa granted to the said M / s, Shri Laxmi Plastic 
Works, Manchuatoli, Arya Kumar Road , Patna -4 , by the Joint Chief Controller 
of Imports and Exports , Calcutta . 


The Government of India , in the Ministry of Commerce in exercise of the 
powers conferred by clause 9 of the Imports ( Control) Order , 1955 hereby cancel 
the sald licence No. A558494 / 62 , dated 14th December 1962 issued to M / s . Shri 
Laxmi Plastic Works, Manchuatoli, Arya Kumar Road , Patna , 


[ No. 142/63/ I & L . ] 


S . O . 610 . – Whereas M / s . Shri Laxmi Plastic Works, Manchuatoli, Arya Kumar 
Road , Patna, or any Bank or uny other person have not come forward furnishing 
sufficient causc against Notice No . 142 / 63 / I & L , dated 16th September 1964 pro 
posing to cancel licencc No. A558495 / 62, dated 14th December 1962 valued at 
Rs. 3 ,750 only for the import of Cellulose Acetate Powder from the General Arca 
except South and South West Africa , granted to the said M / s. Shri Laxmi Plastic 
Works, Manchuatoli, Arya Kumar Road , Patna , by the Joint Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports, Calcuttu . 


The Government of India , in the Ministry of Commerce in exercisc of the 
powers conferred by Clause of the Imports ( Control) Order , 1955 hereby cancel 
the said licence No. A558495 / 62, dated 14th December 1962, issued to M / s . Shri 
Laxmi Plastic Works, Manchuatoli, Arya Kumar Road , Patna . 


8 . 0 . 611.-- -Whereas M / s . Shri Laxmi Plastic Works, Manchuatoli Arya Kumar 
Road , Patna or any Bank or any other person have not come forward furnishing 
sufficient cause against Notice No. 142 /63 / I & L , dated 16th September 1964, pro 
posing to cancel licence No A558498 /62, dated 14th December 1982 valued at 
Rs. 3 ,750 only for the import of Cellulose Moulding Powder from the General 
Area except South and South West Africa granted to the said M / s . Shri Laxmi 
Plastic Works, Manchuatoli, Arya Kumar Road , Patna by the Joint Chiet Con 
troller of Imports and Exports, Calcutta . 


Plasticexcept Soutie the im No. ASS : 142, 3son haverks, Man 


The Government of India , in the Ministry of Commerce in exercise of the 
powers conferred by Clause 9 of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955 hereby cancel 
the said licence No. A558498 /62 , dated 14th December 1962 issued to M / s . Shri 
Laxmi Plastic Works, Manchuatoll, Arya Kumar Road , Patna 


S . O . 612 . — Whereas M / s. Shri Laxmi Plastic Works, Manchuatoli, Arya Kumar 
Road , Patna - 4 or any Bank or any other person have not come forward furnishing 
sufficient cause against Notice No. 142 / 63 / I & L , dated 16th September 1984 pro 
posing to cancel licence No . A650752 /61, dated 6th August 1962 valued at Rs. 2 ,500 


SEC, 8(U ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


693 


only for the import of Cellulose Acetate Butyrate Powder from the General Area 
except South and South West Africa , granted to the said M / s . Shri Laxmi Plastic 
Works, Manchuatoli, Arya Kumar Road , Patna - 4 , by the Joint Chief Controller 
of Imports and Exports, Calcutta . 


The Government of India , in the Ministry of Commerce in exercise of the 
powers conferred by Clause 9 of the Imports ( Control) Order , 1955 hereby cancel 
the said licence No . A650752 /61, dated 6th August, 1962 , issued to M / s. Shri 
Laxmi Plastic Works, Manchuatoli, Arya Kumar Road , Patna . 


D . D . BHARGAVA , 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports . 


(Office of the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

(Central Licensing Area ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 26th December 1964 
S . O . 613 . - Whereas M / s. National Optical and Surgical Co., Chander Bhawan , 
Civil Lines, Ludhiana or any Bank or any other person have not come forward 
furnishing sufficient cause, against Notice No . JCC .I / I ( CLA ) / 193 /64 / 3097, dated 
24th November 1964 proposing to cancel licence Nos . ( 1 ) A573221/ 62, dated 29th 
January 1963 for Rs. 3 ,543 for Rough Blanks other than bifocal blank ( 2 ) P / SS / 
1519627 , dated 18th November 1963 for Rs. 3, 600 for import of Optical Rough 
Blanks and ( 3 ) P / SS / 1535172, dated 23rd October 1964, for Rs. 3,915 for Rough 
Blanks other than bifocal blanks granted to said M / s, National Optical and Surgi 
cal Co., Chander Bhawan , Civil Lines , Ludhiana by the Joint Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports ( Central Licensing Area ) Janpath Barracks B New Delhi 
Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by the Clause 9 of the Import (Control ) Order 1955 , hereby cancel the 
said licences as mentioned above issued to M / s. National Optical and Surgical 
Co., Chander Bhawan , Civil Lines , Ludhiana, 


[ No. JCC .I/I (CLA )/ 193/ 64 / 3541.] 

S . K . SEN , 
Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY & SUPPLY 
(Departmont of Industry ) 

ORDER 


New Delhi, the 15th February 1966 


S . O . 614 / IDRA / 8 / 17 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of the 
Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 ( 65 of 1951) read with rule 
5 ( 1 ) of the Development Councils ( Procedural) Rules , 1952, the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints, till 13th September , 1966 , Shri Madhay Mokashi, to be a 
member of the Development Council established by the Order of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Industry and Supply No . S . O . 3332 dated the 14th Sep 
tember , 1964, for the scheduled industries engaged in the manufacture or produc 
tion of Paper , Pulp and Allied Industries, and directs that the following amend 
ment shall be made in the said Order, namely : 

In the gaid Order , after entry No, 29 relating to Shri G . Sanjeeva Reddy , the 
following entry shall be inserted, namely : 
30. Shri Madhav Mokashi, 70 , Takja Ward , Kurla , Bombay - 70 . 

[No . 2 (4 ) Dev . Councils /64.) 


694 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 (PART II-- 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 15th February 1965 
S . O . 615 . - In the Ministry of Industry and Supply Order No . S . O , 157 dated the 
31st December , 1964, published in Part II Section 3 Sub -Section (ii ) of the Gazette 
of India dated the 9th January , 1965 : -- - 
For 12 , Shri V . N . Sardesal , M /s. Sardesai Brothers Pvt. Ltd ., Post: Sardesat 

factory , Billimora . 
Read 12 . Shri V , N , Sardesal, M / s . Sardesal Brothers Ltd ., 14 , Murzban Road . 
Post Box : 425, Bombay - 1. 

[No. 2 ( 7) / Dev . Councils / 84 . ) 

R . C . SETHI, Under Secy . 


(Dopartmont of Industry ) 
( Indian Standards Institution ) 

New Delht the 8th February 1965 
S . O . 616 . - In pursuance of sub -rule ( 1 ) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards Insti 
tution (Certification Marks) Rules 1955 , as amended in 1962, the Indian Standards 
Institution hereby notifles that the Standard Mark . design of which together with 
the verbal description of the design and the title of tho rolevant Indian Stanrlard 
is given in the Schedule hereto annexed , has been specified . 


This Standard Mark , for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution 
(Certification Marks) Act, 1952, as amended in 1961, and the rules and regulations 
framed thereunder , shall come into force with effect from Ist March , 1965 . 


THE SCHEDULE 


Design of the 


Product/ Class 


of 


No. & Title 


of 


Verbal description of the 


applicable 


Standard 


Mark 


(3) 


(4 ) 


15 :2711 


Laboratory Deficc - IS : 2711 - 1964 Spc - The monogram or 
tion pH Meters cification for La the Indian Standards 

boratory Deflection Institution consisting 
pH Meters 

of letters ISI, drawn 
in the exact style and 
relative proportions as 
indicated in col. (2 ), 
the number designa 
tion of the Indian 
Standard being su 
perscribed on the top 
side of the Monogram 
as indicated in the 
design , 


[No. MD / 17: 2 .] 


S . O . 617 . - In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 3 ) of regulation 7 of the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955 , as amended in 1961, 
1962 and 1964, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notities that the marking 
fee per unit for Laboratory Deflection pH Meters , detalls of which are given in 
the Schedule hereto annexed , has been determined and the fee shall come into 
torce with effect from 1st March , 1965 . 


SEC, 3( it)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 / PHALGUNA I, 1886 


695 


THE SCHEDULE 


SI 
No. 


Product/ Class of Products 


No, and title of relevant 

Indian Standard 


Unit 


Marking Fee per 

Unit 


(4 ) 


I Laboratory 

Meters 


Deflection 


pH 


Rs. 5 . 00 


IS : 2711- 1964 Specifica- One pH 
tion for Laboratory Mcter 
Deflection pH Meters 


(No. MD / 18 : 2 . ] 


S . O . 618 . - In pursuance of sub - regulations (2 ) and ( 3 ) of regulation 3 of the 
Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955, as amended 
in 1961, 1962 and 1964, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the 
Indian Standard ( s ), particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed , 
hove been established during the perlod 21st to 31st January , 1965 . 

TH SCHEDULE 
- - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - 
şi. No. and Title of the Indian No, and Title of the Indian 
Stan lard Established Standard of Star:dards, if 
any, superseded by the new 

Bricf Particulars 
Indian Standard 


I 


2 


3 


IS : 250 - 1964 Soecification I $ : 250 – 1953 Specification This standard prescribes the 

for Potassium Bichromate, for Potassium Bich - requirements and the methods 
Technical and Analyti- romate , Technical of test for potassium bich 
cal Reagent (Rovised ) and Analytical Reagent romatc , technical and anuly 

tical reagent ( Price Rs. 3 ,00 ) 
IS : 927 - 1964 Specification IS ; 927 - 1958 Specifl This standard lays down the 
for Fire Hooks (Revised ) cation for l ire Hooks requirements regarding ma 

terials, shape and dimensions, 
manufacture , workmanship 
and finish , and test for fire 

hooks. (Price Re. 1 00 ) 
IS : 1069 - 1964 Specification IS : 1069 - 1957 Specifica - This standard prescribes the 
for Water for Storage tion for Water for requirements and the methods 
Batteries (Revised ) 

Storage Batterics 

of sampling and test for 
water intended for use in 
storage battcrics (lead - acid 

type) (Price Rs. 2000 ) 
IS : 1171 - 1964 Specification I $ : 1171- 1957 Specifica - This standard covers the rc 

for Testo Manganese tion for Perro quirements for ferro manganese 
(Reviseu ) Manganese 

for use in iron and steel 

industry (Price Re. 1 00 ). 
IS : 2095 - 1964 Specification 

This standard lays down the 
for Gypsum Plaster 

requirements for gypsum 
Boards. 

plaster boards to be uset as 
coverings for walls, ceiling 
and partitions (Price Rs. 
I 50 , 


4 


5 


696 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 / PHALGUNA I , 1886 (Part II 


6 


IS : 2742- 1964 Specification 

for Autoniolive Brake 
Lining 


7 IS : 2745 - 1964 Specification 

for Fireman s Helmets 


8 


IS : 2772 (Part 1) — 1964 

Specification for Non 
Flameproof Mining 
Transformers for Use 
Below Ground 

Part I Oil- immerscd Type 
IS : 2783 - 1964 Specification 

for Worsted Balaclava 
Caps 


9 


IO IS : 2798 - 1964 Methods of 

Test for Polythylene 
Containers 


This standard covers termi 
nology, dimensions and 
other general requirements 
for automotive brake 
lining . It also covers Var 
lous tests and the coefficients 
of friction for different types 
of brake lining ( Price Rs. 

3 . 50 ) 
This standard lays down 

the requirements regarding 
materials , manufacture , work 
manship and finish , and per 
formance requirements of 
fircmen s helmets (Price Rs. 

2 : 50 ) 
This standard covers technical 

provisions relating to non 
flameproof mining type oil 
immersed transformers for 
use below ground (Price 
Rs. 2 : 50 ) 
This standard prescribes the 

constructional details and 
other particulars of knitted 
worated balaclava caps . (Price 
Rs. 3 : 00 ) 
This standard prescribes the 
methods of test for poly 
thylene containers (Price 

Re. 1 00 ) 
This standard specifies the 
material and the dimensions 
of palm grips used on ma 
chine tools (Price Re. 

I 00 ) 
This standard prescribes the 

requirements for whipcord 
of 6 mm size , ( Price Rs. 

2 . 50 ) 
This standard prescribes cons 

tructional details and other 
particulars of finished and 
unfinished nylon dobby cepe 
produced with 2 different 
loom - settings , (Price Rs. 

I 50 ) . 
This standard prescribes the 

general shape and design and 
materials for semi-automatic 
butter moulding machine 
capable of giving an output 
of upto 350 kg per hour of 
butter. (Price Re. 1 00 ), 
This standard covers the require 
ments for two grades of car 
bon steel billets for re - rolling 
into structural stecl ( or linary 
quality ) (Price Re. 1 . 00 ) 


II IS : 2894 - 1964 Dimen 

slona for Palm Grips 


12 


IS : 2807 - 1964 Specification 

for Whipcord 


13 IS : 2820 - 1964 Specification 

for Nylon Dobby Crepo 


14 


IS : 2822 - 1964 Specification 

for Butter Moulding 
Machine 


15 


I $ : 2831- 1964 Specification 

for Carbon Steel Billets 
for Re rolling into Stru 
ctural Steel (Ordinary 
Quality ) 


810 , 3(1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 /PHALGUNA 1. 1886 


697 


16 


IS : 2849 - 1964 Specification 

for Non - load Bearing 
Gypsum Partition Blocks 
( Solid and Hollow Types ) 


17 


IS : 2850 - 1964 Specification 

for Zinc Oxide for 
Cosmetic Industry 


18 


IS : 2864 - 1964 Specification 
for Chlordane Dusting 
Powders 


19 IS : 2870 - 1964 Specification 

for Charge Pump for 
Pressure - Retaining 
Knapsack Sprayer 


This standard covers require 

ments for gypsum partition 
blocks for use in non -load 
bearing construction in the 
interior of buildings and for 
the protection of columns, 
elcvated shafla , etc. against 

fire . (Price R $ . I . 50 ) 
This standard prescribcs the 

requirements and the methods 
of sampling and test for 
zinc oxide for cosmetic 

industry. (Price Rs. 3 . 00 ) 
This standard prescribes the 
requirements and the methods 
of test for chlordane dusting 
powders containing varying 
percentages of chlordane , 

technical. (Price Rs. 3 : 00 ) 
This standard prescribes the 
materials , performance , and 
the methods of testing the 
performance of a charge pump 
used for changing air and 
pesticides fluid in a pressurc 
retaining knapsack sprayer, 

Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 
This standard lays down the 

requirements regarding ma 
terjal, shape and dimensions, 
construction and tests of 
branch pipe, universal, used 
for fire fighting purposes . 

(Price Rs. 2 :00) 
This standard layy down the 

requirements regarding ma 
terials shape , construction , 
performance and tests of 
portable fire extinguishers 
of carbon dioxide type , 

( Price Rs. 1 50 ) 
This standard prescribes the 

requirements and the methods 
of test for dried and laminated 
Bonibay duck . (Price Rs. 

2 : 50 ) 
This standard specifies the 
material and dimensions for 
fixed and free ball handles , 
(Price Re. 1. 00 ) 
This standard specifies the 
materials and dimensions of 
slar grips. (Price Rs. 1 : 50 ) 


20 


IS : 2871 - 1964 Specification 

for Branch Pipe, Univer 
sal, For Fire Fighting 
Purposes. 


21 IS : 2878 - 1964 Spccification 

for Portable Fire Extin 
guishers, 

Carbon 
Bioxide Type 


22 IS : 2884- 1964 Specification 

for Dried and Lamina 
ted Bombay Duck 


23 IS 2904- 1964 Dimensions 

for Ball Handics 


24 IS : 2929 - 1964 Dimen 

sions for Star Grips 


Copies of these Indian Standards are available for salc , with the Indian Standari s Institu 
tion , Muk Bu1013, 9 B112r Shah Zifir Miry , N :w Delhi - I , and also its branch offi : : at (1 ) 
Bombay Mutual Tcrrace , First Floor, 53 .4 Sardar Vallabhbhai l arel Road, Bombar- 7 , lai 
Third & Fourth Floor , 5 Chowringhee Approaçlı . Calcutta - 13, (11 ) Second Flour, Sathya 
murthy Bhavan , 54 General Patters Road , Madras - 2 and (11 ) 14 /69 Civil I , incs, Kanpur. 


[No. MD / 13 :21 
D . V . KARMARKAR , 

Joint Director(Marks ) 


6 - 3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1968 /PHALGUNA 1, 1886 [PART II – 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

(Department of Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 10th February 1965 
$ . 0 , 619 , - - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of 
the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules further to amend 
the National Dairy Research Institute ( Class III and IV posts ) Recruitment Rules , 
1963, namely : - - 
1. These rules may be called the National Dairy Research Institute ( Class 

III and IV posts ) Recruitment ( Amendment ) Rules, 1965 . 
2 In the National Dairy Research Institute (Class III and IV posts ) Recruit 

ment Rules, 1963, after rule 4, the following rule shall be inserted 

namely : 
" 5 Liability to serve in defence services and posts connected with defence , 
Every person possessing a Degree in Mechanical or Electrical or Automobile 
Engineering appointed to the post of Farm Enginecr after the commencement of 
the National Dairy Research Institute ( Class III and IV posts ) Recruitment 
(Amendment ) Rules, 1965 , shull, if so required , be liable to serve in any defence 
service or post connected with the defence of India for a period of not less than 
four ycars including the period spent on training , if any, provided that such per 
Bon : 
( a ) shall not be required to serve as aforesaid after the expiry of ten 

years from the date of such arpointment; 
( b ) shall not ordinarily be required to serve as aforesaid after attaining 
the age of forty years." , 

[No . 3 - 14 /62- DD .] 
N . RANGANATHAN , Under Sccy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 
New Delhi, the 10th February 1965 


S . O . 620 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
11 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , the Central Govern 
ment after consulting the Medical Council of India , hereby makes the following 
amendments in the First Schedule to the said Act , namely ; 


In the said Schedule , after the entry relating to the Punjabi University , the 
following entries shall be inserted , namely : 
" University of Indore Bachelor ofMedicine and M . B .B .S ., Indore 

Bachelor of Surgery 
Doctor of Medicine 

M . D . (Phy.), Indore 
(Physiology ) 
Doctor of Medicine 

M . D . (Pharm .), Indore 
(Pharmacology ) 
Doctor of Medicine 

M .D . (Path .), Indore 
(Pathology ) 
Doctor of Medicine 

M . D . (Med .), Indore 
(Medicine) 
Master of Surgery 

M .S . (Gen . Surg.) , Indore 
(General Surgery ) 
Master of Surgery 

M . S . (Anatomy), Indore 
( Anatomy) 
Surgery (Obstetrics and 

Gynaecology ) 
Master of Surgery 

M . S. ( Ophth .), Indore 
(Ophthalmology ) 
Doctus of Medicine 

M . D . (Paediatrics), Indore 
(Pacdiatrica ) 


SEC, 8(11)] . THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 /PHALGUNA I, 1886 


699 


D . O .M . Ş., Indore 


Diploma in Ophthalınic 

Medicinc and Surgery 
Diploma in Child Health 
Diploma in Tuberculosis 

Discases 


D . C . H ., Indore 
T . D . D . , Indore 


Jiwaji University ,Gwalior 


M . B . B . H ,, Jiwaji 


M . D . (Phy.), Jiwaji 


M . D . (Pharm .) Jiwaji 


M .D . (Path .), Jiwaji 


M .D . (Med.), Jiwaji 


Bachelor of Medicine and 

Bachelor of Surgery 
Doctor of Medicine 

(Physiology ) 
Doctor of Medicine 

(Pharmacology ) 
Doctor of Mcdicine 

(Pathology ) 
Doctor of Medicine 

(Medicine) 
Muster of Surgery 

(Anatomy) 
Master of Surgery 

(Surgery ) 
Master of Surgery 

(Obstetrics & Gynaecology) 
Master of Surgery 

(Ophthalmology) 
Diploma in Medical Radiology 

& Electrology 


M . S . (Anatomy), Jiwaji 


M . S. (Surg.), Jiwaji 


M . S . (Obat. & Gyn .), Jiwaji 


M .S . (Ophth .), Jiwaji 


D . M .R . E ., Jiwaji 


[No. F . 32 -49 /64 -MPT. ] 
New Delhi, the 12th February , 1965 . 
S . O . 621, — Whereas Shri N , R . Sharma, Model House Terrace, Flat A Block , Opp . 
Robert Money School Bombay - 4 , has been re - clected under clause ( R ) of section 3 
of the Pharmacy Act, 1948 ( 8 of 1948 ) , by the Maharashtra State Pharmacy 
Council to represent that state on the Pharmacy Council of India with effcct from 
the 14th November , 1964 ; 

And whereas Dr. D . N . Sharma, Director of Medical and Health Services, Uttar 
Pradesh , has been re -nominated under clause ( h ) of section 3 of the said Act hy 
the Government of Uttar Pradesh to represent that State on the Pharmacy Council 
of India with effect from the 22nd December, 1964 ; 

Now , Therefore, in pursuance of section 3 of the said Act, the Central Govern 
ment hereby directs that Shri N . R . Sharma and Dr. D . N . Sharına shall continue 
to be, with cffect from the respective dates aforesaid , members of the Pharmacy 
Council of India constituted by the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Health No . F . 7 - 23 /59 - D , dated the 21st December , 1959 . 

[No. F . 6 - 26 / 64 - MPT.) 


nt hereby effect from uted by the notidated the 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 9th February 1965 
S . O . 622.- - Whereas the Government of India in the Ministry of Health has, 
by notification No. 32-51/ 64 -MPT, dated 21st January 1965 made, in exercise of 
the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian Medical 
Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , recognised the medical qualification " Doctor of 
Medicine and Surgery " awarded by the University of Perugia , Italy for the pur 
poses of the said Act ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , 
the Central Government hereby specifics the period of two years with effect 
from the date of this order or so long as Dr. Lilli Mara who possesses the said 
qualification , continues to work in the St. Mary s Hospital, Bhimvaram , West 
Godavari District ( Andhra Pradesh ) to which she is attached for the time being 


700 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 /PHALGUNA 1, 1886 (Part II 


for the purposes of teaching, research or charitable work , whichever is shorter, 
as the period to which the medical practice of the said Dr. Lilli Mara shall be 
limited . 

( No . F . 32 -51 /64 -MPT. ) 


New Delhi, the 10th February 1965 


S . O . 623. — Whereas the Government of India in the Ministry of Health has. 
by notification No. 32- 35 /64 -MPT, dated 30th January 1965 made, in exercise of 
powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council 
Act , 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , recognised the medical qualification " M . D ." granted by 
the University of Saint Thomas, Manila Philippines for the purposes of the said 
Act ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1950 ( 102 of 1956 ) , the 
Central Government hereby specifies the period of two years with effect from 
the date of this order or so long as Dr . Raymundo P . Rivera Jr . who possesses 
the said qualification , continues to work in the Medical Section , Bengal Refugee 
Service , Calcutta to which he is attached for the time being for the purposes of 
teaching, research or charitable work , whichever is shorter , as the period to which 
the medical practice of the said Dr. Raymundo P . Rivera , Jr . shall be limited . 

[No. F . 32 - 35 /64 -MPT. ] 


S . O . 624 . - -Whercas the Government of India in the Ministry of Health has , 
by notification No. 32 - 2 /64 -MPT, dated 30th January 1965 made, in exercise of 
the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian Medical 
Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , recognised the medical qualification " M . D ." 
granted by the University of Siena , Italy , for the purposes of the said Act ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act , 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , the 
Central Government hercby specimes the period of two years with effect from 
the date of this order or so long as Dr , Ponticelli Antonio who possesses the said 
qualification continues to work in the Nirmala Hospital, Suriapet, Nalgonda 
District, Andhra Pradesh , to which he is attached for the time being for the 
purposes of teaching , research or charitable work , whichever is shorter , as the 
period to which the medical practice of the said Dr. Ponticelli Antonio shall hf 
limited . 

[ No . F . 32- 29 / 64 -MPT. ] 
B . B . L . BHARADWAJ, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 


ARCHAEOLOGY 
New Delhi, the 5th February 1965 


SO . 625 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 18 of the Ancient 
Monuments Preservation Act, 1904 ( 7 of 1904 ) , read with section 21 of the 
General Clauses Act, 1897 ( 10 of 1897 ) , the Central Government hereby rescinds 
notification No. 5803 , dated the 20th August , 1917 , in regard to Tatabandi, Taluka 
Alibar situated in Survey No. 15. at Agarkot, issued by the General Department 
of the then Government of Bombay . 

[No. F . 4 - 13 / 64 .C . 1.) 


New Delhi, the 10th February , 1965 
S . O . 626 . - Whereas by notifcation of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Education No. F . 4 - 12 /64. C . 1 , dated the 12th June 1964 , published in Part II. 
Section 3 . sub - section ( ii ) of the Gazette of India dated the 20th June 1984, the 
Central Government gave notice of its intention to declare the archaeological 


SIC . $ (U )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


701 


a 


ser conscient de la familles around the best for 


And whereas no objections have been received to the making of such declara 
tion . 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of 
section 4 of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 
1958 ( 24 of 1958 ) , the Central Government hereby declares the said archaeologl 
cal monument to be of national importance . 


SCHEDULE 


702 


S1. 
No. 


State 


District 


Tahsil 


Locality 


Nameof monument 


Area 


Boundaries 


Ownership 


Remarks 


Revenue plot 
numbers to be 
included under 
protection 


I 


2 


8 


IO 


3 
Burdwan Kalna 


I West 

Bengal 


Kalna 


Rameswara temple, Whole of sur- 3 . 60 

Lalji temple , Giri- vey plot Nos , aces. 
govandhan temple , 6181, 6188 , 
Vijaya Vaidyanath 6189, 6191 
temple , Krishnachan , and part of 
draji s temple , group survey plot Nos . 
of five temples locally 6182 , 6187, 
known as Pancharatna 6190 and 6192 
temples , Rupesvara as shown in 
temple and Pratapes - the plan repro 
vara Siva temple in duced below . 
the Rajbari compound 
together with adjacent 
land comprised in 
part of survey plot No. 
6132 , survey plot Nos . 
6181, 6188 , Part of sur 
vey plot No . 6187 , 
survey plot No. 6189 , 
survey plot No. 6190 , 
survey plot No . 6191 
and part of survey plot 
No. 6192 respectively . 


9 

II 
North : - Remaining Private ex - Temples are 
portion of survey cept survey in religious 
plot No. 6182 . plot No. use . 
East : - Survey plot 6190 which 
Nos. 0174 , 6179 , is a Gover 
6192, 6195 , 6194, ment owned . 
6193 and remaining 

portion of survey 
plot No. 6190 . 
South : - Survey plot 
Nos . 6194, 4572, 
6193 , and remaining 
portions of survey 
plot Nos . 6192 and 
6187 , 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:FEBRUARY20,1965/PHALGUNAI,1886 


West :-- Survey plot 
Nos. 6186 , 6185 , 
6184 and remaining 
portions of survey 
plot Nos. 6187 and 
6182 . 


Ratnesvara temple to 


part of survey 0 - 18 


Private 


Temple is 
in religious 


use . 


land comprised in part as shown in 
of survey plot No . 6194 the plan re 

produced be 


North : - Survey plot 
No. 6191 and remain 

ing portion of sur 
yey plot No. 6194 
Eat: - Remaining 
portion of survey 
plot No. 6194 . 


low . 


prtion of survey 
plot No . 6194 

est: - Survey plot 
No . 4572 


[PARTII 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


1 


Jaleswara temple to- Part of survey 0 . 08 
gether with adjacent plot No. 4559 acre . 
land comprised in part as shown in 
of survey piot No. 4559. the plan re 

produced be 


North - Survey plot 
No. 4572 and remain 

ing portion of sur 
vey plot No. 4559 . 
East: - Survey plot 
No . 4569 and re 
maining portion of 
survey plot No . 
4559 . 
Sowh: Remaining 
portion of survey 

plot No. 4559. 
West - Remaining 
portion of survey 

plot No. 4559 . 
North - Survey plot 

No. 4572 
East :- Survey plot 

No . 4572 and re 
maining portion of 
survey plot No. 
4570 . 


1 33 
acre . 


Do . 


Do . 


Nava Kailasa temple Whole of sur 
together with adjacent vey plot No. 
land comprised in suc - 4571 and 
vey plot No. 4571 and part of sur 
part of survey plot No. vey plot No . 
4570 . 

4570 as shown 
in the plan re 
produced 
below . 


SEC,8(ii)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:FEBRUARY20,1965/PHALGUNA1,1886 


Scuik : - Survey plot 
No. 4572 and re 
maining portion of 
survey plot No. 
4570 . 
West - Survey plot 

No. 4569. 
North : — Survey plot Do. 
Nos . 3595 and 5607. 


Do. 


0 . 34 
acte 


Gopalji temple together Part of survey 
with adjacent land plot No. 5606 
comprised in part of as shown in 
survey plotNo. 5606 . the plan repro 

duced below . 


East : - Remaining 
portion of survey 
plot No. 5606 . 
South : - Survey plot 
No. 2625 . 
Wes - Survey plot 
Nos . 5604 and 5605. 


703 


704 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 1 , 1886 


[PART 11 


SITE PLAN OF TEMPLES AT KALNA 

b _ _ 10METRES 25 2 5 _ 5°FEET 


RAMESVARA TEMPLE 

61671 


150 y 


4172 


6170146171 


6179 


6 /82 


6182 


A 


LALJITEMPLE 


HLALJI TEMPLE 
GIRIGOVARDHAN 

TEMPLE 6180 
PLAY GROUND 


V 


PANCHARATHA 


PANIEMILE 


56184 


6784 


25 


*GUESIT 
6 / 79 

VIJAYA VAIDYA NATN 

TEMPLE 
RUPES 
VARA 
TEMILL 

TEMPLE 
Q19/ 


8 3FvWAYA VAIDYA NATH 
YARAT TEHit KRISHNACHANDRAJIS 
8191 


6185 


TF6187 


16187 


116192 116196 


HALLSVAR TEMPLE 


PRATAPEST 
VARA SIVA 
YASA 
TEMPLE 


16186 


6784 ! 

119190 
S - 


6193 


V 


705 H 


RATNESVARA 

TEMPLE 


RATNESVARA 


A194 


SYIYXYAYN 


STEKLE 


+ 558 


1 


IS 


372 


4573 


4578 


LIMITS OF PROPOSED PROTECTIONS - - - 


SEC . $( 11 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


703 


SITE PLAN OF GOPALJI TEMPLE 
AT KALNA 

10 METRES 
25 _ 50Feet 

135955626 
56037 

5605 i 5607 ta 


15602156044 


5608 


7 


5627 


Toke soort 285628 


5628 


2013 / 2017 ]7 26201 


2 62417 


** 726197114 


26261 p 


| GOPALJI TÉMPLÉOR L 126231 

12622 
LIMITS OF PROPOSED PROTECTION — . - . - . 

[No. F . 4 - 12 /84.C. 1.] 
New Delhi, the 12th February 1965 
S . O . 627. - - Whereas by notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Education No. F . 4 - 15 /64 - C . 1, dated the 5th August, 1964 , published in Part II, 
Section 3 . sub - section ( ii ) of the Gazette of India dated the 22nd August , 1964 , 
the Central Government gave notice of its intention to declare the archaeological 
monument specified in the Schedule below to be of national importance . 

And whereas no objections have been received to the making of such de 
claration . 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of 
section 4 of the Ancient Monuments und Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 
1958 ( 24 of 1958 ) , the Central Government hereby declares the said archaeolo 
gical monument to be of national importance . 


SCHEDUL . 


706 


SL 


State 


District 


Tehsil 


Locality 


Boundaries 


Ownerstip Remarks 


Name of monument Revenue Area 

plot 
number to 
be included 


protection 


7 


8 


9 


IO 


10 


II 


11 


I Kerala 


Trivandrum Neyyattinkara Vizhinjam 


0 . 035 North Survey plot Government. 

Nos . 402/ 11 and 


Rock - cut Cave to Whole of 

gether with adjacent survey plot 
area comprised in Nos. ( 102/ 
survey plot Nos . IOA - 36 /6 ) 
( 02 / 10A - 3616 ) and and ( 102 / 
( 402 / 10A - 35 /7 , 35/8 ) IOA /35 / 7 , 

35/ 8 ). 


East : - Survey plot 
Nos . 402 / 10 and 
402 / 15 . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:FEBRUARY20,1965/PHALGUNAI,1886 


South :- Survey plot 
No. 402/ 10 . 


West - Survey plot 
Nos. 402 / 10 and 
402 / 11 . 


No. F . 4 - 15 / 64 - C . 1 .1 

S . J. NARSLAN , 
Assistant Educational Adviser. 


(PartII 


ec , 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1986 / PHALGUNA 1, 1846 


707 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 


New Delhi, the 10th February 1965 
S . O . 628 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Terminal Tax on Railway 
Passengers Act, 1956 (69 of 1956 ) and of all the powers hercunto enabling and in supersession of 
the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Railways (Railway Board ) No. 
F ( X )1 -64 / TX - 19 / 14 dated the 30th November, 1964 as subsequently amended , the Central Go 
vernment hereby 

(a ) fixes the rates specified in column (2 ) of the Schedule annexed hereto as the rates at 

which terminal tax shall be levied in respect of every railway ticket on all passengers 
carried by railway from or to the notified places specificd in column ( 1) of the said 

Schedule ; 
(6 ) directs that the aforesaid terminal tax shall be leviable with effect from the 1st March , 

1965 
2. This notification shall come into force on Ist March , 1969 . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Names of notified 

places 


Rates of terminal tax per single ticket. 


I 


Adult 


Child betwcen 3 and 12 year of age. 


I . Allahabad Jn . For short dis - For long dis - | For short dis - 1 For long dis 
2 . Allahabad City | tance passengers | tance passen gers tance passengers tance passengers 
3 . Daraganj 

(41- 150 miles (over 150 miles ( 41 - 150 miles (over 150 miles 
4 . Naini Jn . or 66 -242 kilo 

or 66 - 242 

or over 242 
5 . Prayag 

metres ) 

kilometres) kilometres ) kilomettres 
6 . Prayag Ghat 

(when opened ) 
7 . Phaphamau 
8 . Subedarganj 
9 . Ramhrauli 

Paisc Paise 

Paise Paisc 
Air - conditioned 
Or Ist class 

2nd class . 
3rd class . 


Explanation : The terminal tax on a return ticket shall be double the rates fixed herein . 

[NO. F . ( X ) II -64 /TX - 19 / 14 ] 

P . C . MATHEW , Sccy. 
- - - - 


रेल मंत्रालय 

( catalatt ) 

att farsit, 10 429 4t 1965. 
Tuo ato 629. HAT Tafutatur , 1956 ( 1956 4T 69) # 1 YTT 3 OTT 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के रेलवे मंत्रालय (रेलवे बोर्ड ) की 30 
797f , 1964 fit yfir o 04 (GT) I - 64 å 5 # - 19/ 14 * * TE at storite 
- 
( क ) अनुलग्न सूची के स्तंभ ( 2 ) में निर्दिष्ट दर को चुंगी -कर की उस दर के रूप 

में निश्चित करती है जो उपर्युक्त अनुसूची के स्तंभ ( 1 ) में निर्दिष्ट स्थानों में 
और उन तक रेलवे द्वारा ले जाये गये यात्रियों के हर टिकट पर लगेगा । 


108 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 / PHALGUNA I , 1886 [ PART II 


( ख ) निदेश करती है कि उक्त सीमा कर 1 मार्च, 1965 से लागू होगा । 
यह अधिसूचना 1 मार्च, 1965 से लागू होगी । 

अनुसूची 


निर्दिष्ट स्थान 


प्रति इकहरे टिकट पर चुंगी की दरे 


वयस्क 


3 से 12 वर्ष की प्रायु के बच्चे 


1. इलाहाबाद जं० 
2. इलाहाबाद शहर 
3. दारागंज 
4. नैनी जंकशन 
5. प्रयाग 

प्रयाग घाट 
( जब बुले ) 


कम दूरी वाले यात्रियों लम्बी दूरी कम दूरी लम्बी दूरी 
के लिए ( 41 - 150 वाले यात्रियों वाले यात्रियों वाले यात्रियों 
भील या 66 -- 242 के लिए के लिए के लिए 
किलोमीटर ) ( 150 मील ( 41 - 150 ( 150 मील 

या 242 मील या या 242 
किलोमीटर 66 - 242 किलोमीटर ) 
से अधिक ). किलोमीटर ) से अधिक ) 


7. फाफामऊ 


पैसे 


पैसे 


पैसे 


पैसे 


9. बम्हरौली 


वातानुकूल या 

पहला वर्जा 
दूसरा वर्जा 
तीसरा दर्जा 


50 
25 


75 
37 


10 


ग्याल्मा : वापसी टिकट पर सीमा कर इस निर्धारित दर का दुगना लिया जायेगा । 

सं0 एफ ( एक्स ) II - 84/ टी एक्स - 19/ 14 

पी० सी० मैथ्यू, सचिव . 


MINISTRY OF WORKS AND HOUSING 

New Delhi, the 6th February 1965 
S . O . 630 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules , namely : 

1 . Srort Title. These rules may be called the Land and Development Office 
( Assistant Accounts Officer ) Recruitment Rules, 1965 . 

2. Application . These rules shall apply to the post specified in column ( 1 ) 
of the Schedule hereto annexed . 

3. Classification, scale of pay, method of recruitment , etc . The classification 
of the post, the scale of pay attached thereto , the method of recruitment to the 
paid post and other matter. connected therewith shall be as specifled in columns 
( 3 ) to ( 7 ) of the said Schedule . 


Sro, 3( LI)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


709 


na 


4 . Disqualification . - ( i) No person , who has more than one wife living or , 
who , having a spouse living, marries in any case in which such marriage is void 
by reason of its taking place during the lifetime of such spouse , shall be eligible 
for appointment to the said post ; and 

( i ) no woman , whose marriage is void by reason of the husband having a 
wife living at the time of such marriage, or who has married a person who bag 
a wife living at the time of such marriage , shall be eligible for appointment to 
the said post: 

Provided that the Central Government may , if satisfied that there are 
special grounds for so ordering, exempt any person from the operation of this 
rule . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Name of 
the post 


Number Classi- 
of posta fication 


Scale of 
pay 


Method of In case of recruit - Circunstances 
recruitment ment by promotion / in which the 
whether by deputation /transfer , UPSC is to 
direct recruit- gradce from which be consulted 

ment or promotion is to in making 
by promo be made. 

recruitment. 
tion or 
deputation , 


2 


3 


5 


Assistant 

Accounts 
Officer, 


Two G . C . S . 

Class II 

(Non 
Ministerial ) 


4 

Rs. 
590304 
830 – 35 
goo . 


By transfer Transfer on depu - As required 
on deputa - tation . 

under the rules . 
tion . 

Suitable officer 
of the rank of 
Assistant Ac 
counts Officer , 
or equivalent, 
from any of the 
organised Ac 
counts Services . 
(Period of depu 
tation - ordinarily 
not exceeding 3 
years ). 

[ No. 11(39 )/63 Adm . I.] 
S . L . VASUDEVA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 12th February 1965 
8 . 0 . 631 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Public 
Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants ) Act, 1958 ( 32 of 1958 ) , the Cen 
tral Government hereby appoints the officer mentioned in column 1 of the table 
below being gazetted officer of Government, to be estate officer for the purposes 
of the said Act who shall exercise the powers conferred , and perform the duties 
imposed , on estate officers by or under the said Act within the local limits of 
their respective jurisdiction in respect of the public premises specified in the 
corresponding entries in column 2 of the said table . 

THE TABLE 


Designation of officers 


Categories of public premises and local limits 

of jurisdiction 


Shri S .G . Puthli, Superintending Engineer, 

Bombay Central Circle, Central Public 
Works Department, Bombay . 


Quarter No. 100 , First Floor , Building No . II , 
T ype II (Special Ghatkopar, Bombay . 


[No. 32 / 2 / 65 - Acc. II ] 
H . S . JAIN , Under Scy . 


710 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1985 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


(PART II 


(ofice of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 10th February 1965 
S . O . 632 . - In cxercise of the powers conferred by Clause ( a ) of Sub - Section 
( 2 ) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) 
Act , 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hercby appoints for the Union 
Territory of Delhi, Shri Gagan Dass , Managing Omcer in the office of Regional 
Settlement Commissioner , New Delhi, as Managing Oficer for the custody, 
management and disposal of compensation pool with effect from the date he 
took over charge of his office. 

[ No, 7 ( 16 )AGZ / 65 .] 


New Delhi, the 15th February 1965 
S . O . 633 . - In excrcise of the powers conferred by Clause ( a ) of Sub -Section 
( 2 ) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) 
Act, 1954 (44 of 1954 ), the Central Government hereby appoints for the State of 
Bihar , Shri M . Alam , Junior Field Inspector in the office of Assistant Settlement 
Commissioner, Incharge Madhya Pradesh and Bihar Region and posted at Patna 
ag Managing Officer for the custody , management and disposal of compensation 
pool with effect from the date he took over charge of his oirce . 

[No. P . F . 7 ( 12 ) AGZ /64. ] 

KANWAR BAHADUR, 
Settlement Commissioner ( A ) & Ex -Officio Dy. Secy. 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 31st December 1964 
S . O . 634 , - In this office Notifcation No. 1 ( 10 ) / L & R / 64 , dated 10th December , 
1964 regarding acquisition of Khewat No. 31 / 52, Khasra No. 132, measuring 5 
highas 1 biswas , the word " Hauz Ranl" appearing in 14th Line may be read 
" Sandors Khurd " . 

[No. F . 1 ( 10 ) / L & R -64. ] 

M , J, SRIVASTAVA , 
Settlement Commissioner & Ex -Offlcio Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 5th February 1965 
S . O . 636 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the 
Cinematograph Act , 1952 and sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule ( 2 ) of 
rule 9 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 1958 , the Central Government 
hereby appoints Shrimati Geeta Mallik after consultation with the Central Board 
of Film Censors as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Calcutta 
with immediate effect. 

[ No. 11 /3 /62-F ( C ).] 
H . N . AGARWAL , Dy. Secy . 


DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SECURITY 

New Delhi, the 8th February, 1965 
S . O . 636 . — Whereas the employees of the establishments mentioned below are 
in enjoyment of benefits in the nature of provident fund or gratuíty and the 
Central Government is of opinion that such benefits are on the whole not less 
favourable to such employees than the benefits provided under the Employees 
Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952 ) and Employees Provident Funds Scheme, 
1952 ; 


SEC . $ (i ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 /PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


711 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( b ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 17 of the Enıployees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 


the 


visions of the Employces Provident Funds Scheme, 1952, with effect from 
dates mentioned against them , the following establishments , namely : 


NAME OF ESTABLISHIMENTS 


DATE OF 
EXEMPTION 


1. Branch factories of Messrs Bata Shoe Company 

Private Limited at Digha, Patna and Mukame 
ghat, Barh (both in Bihar ) . 


31- 8 - 1961. 


2 . ( 1 ) Registered and Head Office of Messrs Bata Shoe 

Company Private Limited at 30 , Shakespeare 

Sarani, Calcutta - 16 ; 
( ii ) Sales Office of Messrs Bata Shoe Company 

Private Limited at 6A , Surendra Nath Banerjee 

Road , Calcutta - 13 ; 
( iii ) Shipping and Passage Othce of Messrs Bata 

Shoe Company Private Limited at Gilander 

House , 8 . Netaji Subhas Road , Calcutta - 1 ; 
( iv ) Delhi Office of Messi s Bata Shoe Company 

Private Limited , Kashmere Gate , Delhi; and 
Retail Shops, Wholesale Shops and Repair 
Shops of Messrs Bata Shoc Company Private 
Limited throughout India . 


30 - 4 -1982 


2 . The cxemption hereby conferred shall, in addition to the conditions 
mentioned in sub -section ( 3 ) of scction 17 of the said Act, be subject to the con 
ditions specified in the Schedule hereto annexed 


SCHEDULE 


1 . The employer in relation to each cstablishment (hereinafter referred to as 
the employer ) shall within three months of the date of publication of this noti 
fication bring the rules relating to the Provident Fund in respect of the establish 
ment in accordance with the rules annexed herewith (Annexure A ) . 


2 . The Provident Fund and Gratuity Rules of any establishment shall not be 
amended except with the previous approval of the Regional Commissioner , Where, 
in the opinion of the Regional Commissioner, any amendment affects the interests 
of the employees , he shall , before giving his approval, give reasonable notice of tho 
same to the employees. 


3. ( a ) The employer shall maintain accounts of the Provident Fund in such 
manner and submit such returns to the Regional Commissioner as the Central 
Government, may from time to time, direct. 


( b ) The cmployer shall furnish to the Regional Commissioner such accounts 
relating to the Provident Fund of the establishment as the Central Provident Fund 
Commissioner may prescribe from time to time, He shall also furnish an annual 
statement of account or a Pass Book , in such form as may be approved , to each 
subscriber who, but for the exemption , would have been a member of the Fund 


( c ) The employer shall make all investment of accumulations accruing after 
the date of exemption in securities of the Central Government. The reinvest 
ment or conversion of securities on maturity shall also be in the securities of 
the Central Government. The employer shall formulate a procedure for prompt 
investment of provident fund moneys and shall get it approved from the con 
cerned Regional Commissioner . 


4 . The employer shall afford such facilities for inspection of the accounts of 
the Provident Fund as the Central Provident Fund Commissioner may , from time 
to time, specify . 


. All expenses involved in the administration of the Provident Fund Scheme. 
including the maintenance of accounts, submission of accounts and returns, trans 
fer of accumulations and payment of inspection charges , shall be borne by the 
employer 

6 . The employer shall display on the notice board of his establishment. in 
English , a copy of the approved rules and the translation of a gist of the rules in 
the language of the majority of the workers. 

7 . The employer shall within three months of the date of publication of this 
notification transfer to the Board of Trustees the accumulations standing to the 
credit of the employees who but for the cxcmption would have been members of 
the Statutory Fund . 

8 . When the Fund is wound up or cxemption of the establishment is concelled , 
accumulations standing to the credit of the cmployees who, but for the exemption , 
would have been members of the Statutory Fund , shall be transferred to that 
Fund as soon as possible and , in any case , not later than 30 days in the case of 
securities and not later than ten days in the case of cash in hand or bank , together 
with such statement or statements as may be required by the Regional Com 
missioner or Commissioners concerned. 

9. The employer shall accept the past provident fund accumulations of an 
employee who is alrcady a member of the Employees Provident Fund or an 
exempted fund and who obtains cmployment in his establishment. Such an 
employec shall immediately be admitted as a member of the Provident Fund of 
the establishment. His accumulations which shall be transferred within three 
months of his joining the establishment shall be credited to his account, 

10 . The employer shall provide for nomination in his provident rules in 
accordance with the provisions contained in paragraph 61 of the Employees Provi 
dent Fund Scheme, 1952. 

11. The amount of contributions shall he calculated to the ncarest quarter of 
a rupee ; that is , 12 -5 puise or more shall be counted as the next higher quarter of 
a runec and , fractions of a rupee less than 12 - 5 paíse shall be ignored . The 
amounts of inspection charges and damages shall be calculated to the nearest 5 
paige ; that is , 2 -5 paíse or more shall be counted as 5 paise ; and any amount loss 
than 2 .5 paise shall be ignored , 

12 . On all repayable louns granted by the establishment interest shall be 
charged at the rate of 43 per cent. or 1 per cent. above the rate allowed on the 
balance to the credit of the members, whichever is higher . 

13 . The cmployer shall pay to the Regional Commissioner inspection charges 
payable , failing which damages shall be paid at a rate fixed by the Central 


14 . Exemption granted by this notification is liable to be withdrawn by the 
Central Government for breach of any of the aforesaid conditions or for any 
other suficient cause which may be considered appropriate . 

ANNEXURE A 
1. Number of members . ( 1 ) The Board shall consist of an equal number of 
representatives of the employers and the employees. The number of trustees 
on a Board sball be so fixed as to afford , as far as possible, representation to 
workers in various branches / departments of the establishment: 

Provided that the number of trustees on a Board shall neither be less than six 
not more than twelve . 

( 2 ) In the case of a common Provident Fund for a group of two or more 
establishments under the same employer , one Board may be constituted for all 
such establishments : 

Provided that the employees of each such establishment, shall be entitled to 
elect a trustee on the Board . 

2 . Employers representatives . The employer shall nominate his representa 
tives from amongst the officers employed in managerial or administrative capacity 
in the establishment. 

9 , Election of employees representative. - - The representatives of the employees 
shall be elected by the members of the Fund in an election to be held for the 
purpose on any working day : 


SEC . 3(xi)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 /PHALGUNA I, 1886 


713 


Provided that whey r there is a recognized Union under the Code of Dis 
cipline or under 2017 State Act, such Union shall nominate the employees / 
representatives : 

Provided further that wherever there is no recognised Union , the representa 
tive Union , I any , existing under any Law regulating the recognition of workers 
Union shall nominate the employees representatives : 

Provided also that wherever there is neither a recognised Union nor a 
representative Union of workers , any Union existing in the establishment and 
qualified for recognition by the employer , shall nominate the employees 
representatives. Where there is more than one such Union , the procedure laid 
down in the Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules , 1957, for the clcction of the 
Workers representatives on the Works Committee shall be followed with such 
riodifications, if any , as may be considered necessary by the Regional/ State 
Provident Fund Commissioner . 

4 . Qualifications of candidatos for election .- -- ( 1 ) Any member of the Fund 
who is not less than 21 ycars of age may , if nominated as hereinafter provided , 
he a candidate for election as employees representative . 

( 2 ) An outgoing trustee shall be eligible for re- election or re - nomination as 
the case may be. 

5 . Procedure for election . The employer shall fix a date for receiving the 
nominations from candidates for election as employees representatives . He shall 
also Ax a date for the withdrawal of nomination and the date of election which 
shall not be earlier than three days or later than ten days after the closing date 
for withdrawal of nominations. The dates so fixed shall be notified to the 
members at least seven days in advance . The notice shall be affixed on the 
Notice Board of the establishment. The notice shall also specify the number 
of seats to be filled by the employees representatives. A copy of such notice 
shall also be sent to the recognised trade Union or the Unions concerned in the 
establishment and to the Regional/ Stato Provident Fund Commissioner , 

6 . Nomination of candidates for election . Every nomination shall be made in 
the Form annexed to these rules. Each nomination paper shall be signed by the 
candidate to whom it relates and attested by at least two members of the Fund , 
other than the proposer and shall be delivered to the employer before or on the 
closing dale fixed for receiving the nominations. 

7 . Scrutiny of Nomination papers. — The employer shall scrutinize the nomi 


withdrawing the nomination papers. The candidate or his nominee , the proposer 
or the attesting members may be present, if they so desire . The invalid nomina 
tion papers shall be rejected . 

3 . Voting in election . - ( 1 ) If the number of candidates who have been validly 
nominalcd is equal to the number of seats, the candidates shall forthwith be 
cleclared duly elected . 

( 2 ) Il the number of candidates is more than the number of seats, voting shall 
lake place on the date Axed for election , 

( 3 ) The election shall be conducted by the employer in the presence of an 
officer , deputed by the Regional / State Provident Fund Commissioner. 

(4 ) Every member of the Fund shall have as many votes as there are seats 
to be Alled on the Board : 

Provided that each such member shall be entitled to cast only one vote in 
favour of any one candidate . 

(5 ) The voting shall be by Secret Ballot . 

9. Disquallfications of a truster - A person shall be disqualificd for being a 
trustee of the Board :-- 

(i) if he is declared to be of unsound mind by a competent court; or 
( ii ) if he is an undischarged insolvent; or 

(ill ) if he has been convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude , 
10 . Chairman of the Board . The employer shall nominate one of his 
representatives on the Board to be the Chairman thereof. In the event of an 
equality of votes , the Chairman shall exercise a casting vote . 


714 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 / PHALGUNA I, 1886 


( PART II 


11 . Filling of casual vacancles . In the event of a trustee , elected or nomi 
nated , ceasing to be a trustee during the tenure of the Board , his successor shall 
be elected or nominated , as the case may be in the manner here - in -before pro 
vided for election or nomination . 

12 . Reference to Regional Provident Fund Commissioner . In case of any 
dispute or doubt, the matter shall be referred to the Regional Provident Fund 
Commissioner in whose region the Head Office of the establishment is situated . 
His decision in the matter shall be final and binding. 

13 . Provision for residuary matters . - All matters not provided for in these 
rules shall be regulated by the approved Provident Fund Rules of the establish 
ment. 

FORM OF NOMINATION PAPER 

(See Rule 6 ) 
Name of the branch /department 

I hereby nominate Shri . . . . . . 
(name of the employees candidate with his Provident Fund Account No . ) 
as a candidate for election to the Board of Trustees . 


Date . . . . . . 

( Signature of the proposer with his 

Provident Fund Account No. ) 

Address 
I hereby declare that I agree to this nomination . 
Date . . . . . . . 

(Signature of candidate ) . 
Address . 


Attested by ( 1) . . . . . .. 


( 2 ) 


. . . . . . . 


( To be signed by two members of the Provident Fund ) 

Certificate of delivery 


This nomination paper was delivered to me at my office on - - - - - - - by the 
candidate / proposer . 

Employer, 
[No. 11/ 16 / 63 / PF - II. ] 


New Delhi, the 11th February 1965 
S . O . 687 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
1 of the Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 , ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints the 21st February , 1965 as the date on which the provisions 
of Chapter IV ( except sections 44 and 45 which have already been brought into 
force ) and Chapters V and VI ( except sub - section ( 1 ) of section 76 and sections 77 , 
78 , 79 and 81, which have already been brought into forcel of the said Act, shall 
come into force in the following areas in the State of Punjab , namely : 


Village 


SI. 
No. 


Had Bast 

No. 


Alamgarh 
in the district of Ferozepur . 

Dadri . 
in the district of Mohinderorth 

Farm Bahadurgarh . 
in the district of Patiala , 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 


109 
147 


III 


. 


113 / 1 


Sza , 3 (1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1985 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


715 


Village 


SI. 
No. 


Had Bast 

NO. 


IOS 
109 


TOO 
107 
III 


. 


Rajipur Jhajra . 

Surajpur 
in the district of Ambala 

Rampur Sewri 

Tekwana . . 
in the district of Ambala. 

Arangh Pur , 
Sarai Khauaja . 
(Alias Ghasipur) 
Meola Maharaj Pur 
Faridabad 
Arraunda . 
Lakar Pur 
Sili . 
Etmad Pur 

Balab Garh 
in the district of Gurgaon , 


123 


II8 


80 
127 


98 


(No. F .13 ( 17 ) / 65 -HI.] 
SHAH AZIZ AHMAD , Dy Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 9th February 1965 
$ . 0 . 138 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section 1 of section 5 
of the Mines Act, 1952 ( 35 of 1952 ), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S . O . 531, dated the 2nd March , 1961, 
namely : 


" ( 63 ) Shri S . C . Gupta," 


[No. 8 / 79 / 64 -M .1. 1 


New Delhi, the 10th February 1965 
S . O . 639 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section 1 of section 
5 of the Mines Act, 1952 ( 35 of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri H . K . Roy , as Inspector of Mines subordinate to the Chief Inspector of 
Mines and makes the following further amendment in the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment, . O . 531, dated 
the 2nd March , 1981, namely : - - 

In the said notification , the following entry shall be added at the end , namely : -- 


« 71 Shri H . K . Roy ." 


No . 8 /40 / 64 -MI. ] 
R . C . SAKSENA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 9th February 1965 
5 . 0 , 640. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the West Jhagrakhand Colliery and their workmen which was receiv 
ed by the Central Government on the 2nd February , 1965 . 


716 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


(PART 11 – 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

AT BOMBAY 


REFERENCE NO. CGIT -7 OF 1964 
Employers in relation to the West Jhagrakhand Colliery 


AND 
Their Workmen . 


PRESENT : 


Shri Salim M . Merchant, Presiding Officer, 


Dated at Bombay this 30th day of January , 1965 


INDUSTRY : Coal Mining . 


STATE : Madhya Pradesh , 


AWARD 


The Central Government by the Ministry of Lahour and Employment s Order 
No . 5 /55 / 63- LRII, dated 15 - 1 - 1964, mude in exercise of the power s conterred by 
clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( Act XIV of 1947 ), was pleased to refer the industrial dispute between the parties 
above -named in respect of the subject matters specified in the following schedule 
to the said order, to me for adjudication : 


SCHEDULE 


" Whether the dismissal of the following workmen from the scrvice of the 

colliery with effect from the 23rd June, 1963, is justified ? f not , to 

what relief they are entitled ? 
1. Shri Kishore s / o Balwant. 
2 . Shri Ramnu s /o Changur. 
3 . Shri Banarshi s / o Ramdhari. 
4 . Shri Binda s / o Vigurashan , 
5 . Shri Banta s / o Darshan .” 


2 . After the usual notices were issued , the Jhagrakhand Collleries Private Ltd . 
( hereinafter referred to as the Company ) filed its written statement, dated 7th 
March 2984 . and the Madhya Pradesh Colliery Workers Federation (hereinafter 
called the Union ) representing the workmen filed its statement of claim dated 
18th April, 1984, to which the Company filed its rejoinder , dated 23rd May, 1964 . 


3 . Thereafter the parties submitted a joint petition , dated 19th January , 1965 . 
recording the terms of settlement reached between them , a copy of which is 
annexed hereto and marked Annexure A and they have prayed for an award in 
terms thereof. The joint petition has been signed on behalf of the Company by 
Shri R . Hearn , the Agent and Mining Engineer of the Jhagrakhand Collieries 
and on behalf of the Union by Its General Secretary , Shri Gulab Gupta and other 
office Bearers. 


4 . As the settlement appears to me to be fair and reasonable and in the inter 
est of industrial peace, I make an award in terms recorded in Annexure A 
hereto , which shall form part of this Award . 


5 . No order as to costs , 


SALIM M . MERCHANT, 

Presiding Officer, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay. 


SEC . $( 11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1905 /PHALGUNA I, 1886 


717 


ANNEXURE A 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , BOMBAY 

REFERENCE No. CGIT - 7 OF 1964 
In the matter of Industrial Dispute over alleged wrongtul dismissal of Sri 
Kishore and four others of West Jhagrakhand Colliery . 

BETWEEN 
The Employers in relation to the West Jhagrakhand Colliery of M / s . Jhagra 
khand Collieries Pvt . Ltd . 

AND 
Their workmen represented by the Madhya Pradesh Colliery Workers Federa 
tion 
The joint petition of the parties above -named most respectfully shewth : 
1. That the Union will not press for the re - instatement of Sri Kishore, 

Haulege Khalashi and he will also not be entitled to any other relief, 
2. That Sri Ramnu and Sri Banarsi will be employed in their original posts 

of Haulege Khalashi and driller respectively . They will be given 
the benefit of continuity of service and the period of their absence 

will be treated as leave without pay . 
3. Sr Brinda will be cmployecl as it bailing Mazdoor o probation for six 

months. 
4 . Sri Banta may work as it casual Mazdoor in the wagon loading Section , 

as and when work is available in the said Section , 
5 . That the agreement in paras 2 , 3 and 4 above will be given cffcct within 


matter . 
6 . The parties jointly pray that this reference may kindly be disposed of 

in terms of this settlement and an Award given accordingly , 
The Parties will bear their own cost . 

For the Workmen 
1. (Sd .) GLAS GUPTA , General Secre 

tary , M . P . Colliery Workers Fede 

ration . 
2 . (SA ) J . P . SRIVASTAVA , Secretary , 

M . P , Colliery Workers Federa 
tion , 
3 . (Sd .) . K . DUBEY , President, West 

Jhagrakhand Colliery Branch . 
MP Colliery Workers Federa 
tion , 

For the Employers 
( Sd.) R . HEARN , Agent & Mining Engl 

neer, Jhagrakhand Collierics. 
Witnesses : 
1. (P . P . PARAMESWARAN ) 

2 . (G . R . BHANDARI) 
The 19th January , 1985 . 

[No. 5 / 55 /63 -LR . II. T 


New Delhi, the 12th February 1965 
S . O , 641. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of Shri 
Anand Narain Kaul, Arbitrator in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to Messrs Bikaner Gypsums Limited , Bikaner and their workmen 
represented by the Gypsum Mine Workers Union , Jamsar which was received 
by the Central Government on the 2nd February 1965 . 


18 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 [PART Il 


PRESENT : 
Shri Anand Narain Kaul, Central Government Industrial Tribual, Delhi. 

31st December , 1964 
ARBITRATION CASE No. 1 OF 1964 

BETWEEN 
The management of Messrs Bikaner Gypsums Liniited , Bikaner . 

AND 
Their workmen as represented by the Gypsum Mine Workers Union , 

Jamsar , 
Shri Anand Parkash - - for the management. 
Shri Y , R . Bhasin - for the workomen 


AWARD 


This is a reference , under Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. of 
an industrial dispute existing between Messrs Bikaner Gypsums Limited , Bikaner 
(hereinafter referred to as the company ) and their workmen represented by the 
Gypsum Mine Workers Union , Jamsar (hereinafter referred to as the Union ) , who 
have entered into a written agreenient to refer the dispute to me. The agreeincnt 
was published by S . O . dated the 20th June, 1964 of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour and Employment. The matters referred to my arbitra 
tion under the aforesaid arbitration agreement are as follows: 
1 . Whether the dismissals of Shri Deyidạn and Subhania ale justifed and 

if not to what relief they are cntitled ? 
2. Whether the stoppage of increment of Shri Manandeo Mishra is justificd 

and iſ not to what relief he is entitled ? 
3 . Whether employees who are discharged or dismissed or whose services 

are otherwise terminated or who resign during a calendar year are 
entitled to encashment of leave for the period they have actually 
worked during that calendar year . 


2 . Both the aforesaid parties have submitted to me their respective written 
statements . The case of the union , as set out in its written statement, in respect 
of the first matter in dispute is that Sarvashri Devidan and Subhania , who were 
old employees of the company , were an eye - sore to the management, being active 
pembers of the union , and the management was on the look out of some oppor 
tunity to victimise them . The management got such an opportunity when 
these workmen proceeded on leave, to their respective native places and un 
fortunately fell ill during their leave period and had to get the leave extended . 
The management, with malafide intentions, did not issue to them any charge 
sheets for absence and when the workmen reported for duty and presented the 
inedical certificates and lcave applications, according to the provisions of the 
Standing Orders, they to their utmost surprise received letters of dismissal, 
alleging that the charges of absentcelsm were proved against them in an enquiry 
which was conducted er parte . According to the union , no intimation of such an 
enquiry was cver reccived by the workmen and they had no opportunity to 
explain their conduct. The workmen , according to the union , had reason to 
believe that no such enquiry was ever conducted . The dismissal is alleged to be 


Welfare Officer of the company , who by virtue of a prior settlement between the 
inion and the management, was debarred from conducting such an enquiry. 

3. In regard to matter of dispute No. 2, the union has stated that it did not 
wish to proceed with the dispute . 

4 . As to the matter of dispute No . 3, the union s case is based on the pro 
visions, regarding leave in Chapter VII of the Mines Act , 1952 and the provisions 
of the rules under thc Mincs Rules 1955 . It would be appropriate to discuss the 
case of each party when disposing of this term of reference . 


5 The management s case in its written statement, relating to the case of Shri 
Jayidan , under term No. 1, ot the reference, is that there was a report of the 
llead Time Keeper that Shri Devidan had been absenting himself. without per 
Inission and without any satisfactory cause , since 1st April, 1963, and that 


SEC. (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


719 


charge- sheet which was sent to his usual address under Registered Acknowledg 
ment due had come back undelivered with the remark " not found " . The charge 
sheet which is dated the 13th April, 1963 was under standing order 21 ( a ) (xvi) , 
which lists continuous absence without permission and without suficient cause 
for more than 10 days , as a gross misconduct for which the employec concerned 
is liable to various punishments including dismissal without notice. Since the 
charge- sheet could not be served on the workman by post, a copy of the charge 
sheet, as required by the standing orders , was pasted on the Notice Board and a 
copy was also endorsed to the union for information and necessary action . Notice 
of the enquiry was issued for the 7th May, 1963 and the workman was informed 
that if he did not appcar, an ex parte enquiry would be conducted. Shri B , N . 
Roy , Labour and Welfare Officer was authorised to conduct the enquiry. Since 
Shri Devidan did not appear, thc enquiry had to be conducted ex parte . After 
cxamining the Flead Time Keeper who supported his report with the relevant 
attendance register , the Enquiry Officer himself verified the register and being 
satisfied with the evidence of the Head Time Kccper gave his report dated the 
27th May, 1963, holding Shri Devidan guilty of the charge contained in the 
chargc - sheet issued to him . On the 17th June, 1963, Shri Devidan is stated to 
have returned and submitted a medical certificate , whereupon he was allowed to 
resume duty, as per letter of the management dated 17th June, 1963, " subject to 
the action to be taken for his absenteeism for such a long time without intima 
tion ." According to the management, Shri Devidan did not give any reason 
why he could not submit the certificate and apply for leave in time in accordance 
with the standing orders. Accordingly the findings of the Enquiry Oncer were 
accepted and he was dismissed from scrvice under the provisions of standing order 
22 ( a ) . 

6 . The case of Shri Subaniya is stated to be similar to that of Shri Devidan , 
in that he was absenting himself without permission and without satisfactory 
cause since Ist August, 1963 . A charge - shcct dated 19th August, 1763, issued to 
him under registered A . D . cover at his usual address was also returned with the 
remarks similar to those in the case of Shri Devidan . In this case also a copy 
of the charge - sheet was pasted on the general notice -board and a copy of the 
same was also endorsed to the union for information and necessary action , Shri 
Subaniya was required to submit his explanation to the charge - sheet within 7 
days of the putting up of the same on the notice -board , failing which an ex parte 
enquiry was to be held on the 9th September , 1963. In this case also the Labour 
Welfare Officer was authorised to conduct the enquiry . The workman did not 


was examined along with the relevant attendance register. On the 16th Septem 
ber, 1963 , the Enquiry Officer gaye his report finding Shri Subaniya guilty of the 
charges , against him . On 30th September , 1963, i. e ., almost two months after he 
her first absented himself, Shri Subaniya returned and stated that he was sick 
and under treatment at Bikaner and could not therefore , attend duty from 1st 
August, 1963 to 29th September , 1963. He also produced a health certificate 
which merely stated that he was under the treatment of some Vaidya and that 
he was now fit . The nature of the illness of Shri Subaniya was not mentioned 
in the health certificate which was more or less in the nature of a fitness certi 
ficate . Shri Subaniya was also allowed to resumc duty from 30th September, 
1963, subject to the right of the company to take action on the result of the 
enquiry . By a letter , dated the 18th November , 1963, Shri Subaniya was dis 
missed from service under standing order 22 ( a ). The management has, there 


7 . As to term No. 2 of the reference, it is stated that Shri Manan Dey Mishra 
was chargc - shreted for sleeping while on duty which is a gross misconduct under 
clause 22 ( a ) ( xi) of the certified standing orders applicable to the mines of the 
company. The charge - sheet is stated to have been issued on the report of Shri 
Dilbagh Singh and Shri Jaswant Singh , Timc Keepers, who during their surprise : 
check on the 4th December , 1962 at 11 AM had found the workman sleeping while 
he was on duty at the Power House at Quarry No. 7 . Shri Manan Dev Misra 
denied the charge, and following this , a regular enquiry was held at which 
witnesses were examined in the presence of Shri Manan Dev Misra and he was 
allowed to cross -examine them and also to produce his own defence , The 
Inquiry Officer having found Shri Misra guilty of the charge against him , the 
management instead of dismissing the workman from service, as they could have 
very -well done, on the proved charges against him decided only to stop his incre 
ment for one year and warned him that repetition of any kind of misconduct shall 
be seriously dealt with , which might lead to his dismissal. The management 
claims that the action taken by them was fair . 

8 . I have heard Shri R . C . Shukla , General Secretary of the Union , on its behalf 
and Dr Anand Prakash , on behalf of the management. 


-720 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; FEBRUARY 20, 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 [PART II 


Item No. 1 of Dispute : 

9 . In its written statement the Union has significantly avoided giving thc date 
of each workman proceeding on leave and has even omitted to state whether they 
made any application for leave oral or written , for how many days they proceeded 
on leave and whether the leave was sanctioned. In the circumstances the 
management s version that Shri Devidan and Shri Subaniya had been absenting 
themselves without leave from 1st April 1963 and 1st August 1963, respectively 
must be accepted as correct. There scems also to be no reason to disbelieve 
the management s case as to the sending of a charge - sheet by registered 
acknowledgement due to the usual address of cach workman and as to its having 
been returned undelivered with the remark " Not found ” . The original registered 
envelopes and the corresponding acknowledgement slips are on the record of 
enquiry . The pasting of a copy of the charge - sheet in each case , on the com 
pany s notice board and endorsing of a copy to the Union , after it had been 
returned undelivered, may also be accepted . In fact, at the hearing it was 
admitted on behalf of the union that a copy of the notice board charge - sheet had 
been received by it. Admittedly no explanation to the charge - sheet was or 
could have been , in the circumstances , submitted by any of the workmen and the 
Enquiry Officer was justified in proceeding ex parte with the enquiry in each 
case . The Enquiry Officer submitted his report dated 24th May 1963 in the case 
of Shri Devidan and dated 18th September 1963 in the case of Shri Subaniya, 
finding the respective workman guilty of the act of gross misconduct for which 
he was charged . There seems to be nothing wrong with the procedure adopted 
by the management or by the Enquiry Omcer upto this stage. T he union s 
objection , in its written statement, that there was an agreement between the 
union and the management that no enquiry would ever be entrusted to the 
Labour Welfare Officer has not been supported to any copy or cven extract from 
the agreement in question , nor was any such agreement produced before me at 
the hearing. The pasting of the charge- shcet on the notice board in the absence 
of its service on the workman by registered post on the usual address was in 
accordance with the standing orders of the management. Under clause 21 ( a ) 
(xvi ) of the standing orders , continuous abscnce without permission and without 
satisfactory cause for more than 10 days amounts to gross misconduct for which 
the employee concerned is liable to be dismissed . The management could , there 
fore, have dismissed the two workmen on the basis of the report of the Enquiry 
Oficer for continuous absence without permission and without satisfactory cause 
for more than 10 days. 


10 . As admitted in the management s written statement, Slıri Devidan returned 
on the 17th June, 1963 and submitted a medical certificate . The application , 
along with which the certificate was produced has now been produced . In this 
application Shri Devidan had stated that he had gone on leave for only six days 
but having fallen sick after reaching home he was unable to make any further 
application for leave. He, therefore, prayed for grant of leave from 1st April, 
1963 to 16th June, 1963. The so - called medical certificate is only a health certi 
ficate of an Ayurvedic practitioner of Bikaner dated the 15th June, 1963 , saying 
that Shri Devidan , who was suffering from " Jyaratisar" had been under his 
treatment from 1st April 1983 to 16th June, 1963 and that he had fully recovered 
on the date of certificate . It is not, however , understandable why the workman 
could not approach the Mine Management for sanctioning of further leave or send 
an application by post for extension of Icave when he could himself approach 
the Ayurvedic Practitioner at Bikaner for his treatment during such a long 
period . The application of the workman , however , does not hear any cndorse 
ment of the management s office and whatever endorsement there was has been 
struck off so as to make it illegible . In any case the management had by their 
letter dated the 17th June, 1983, of which a copy has been produced , allowed the 
workman to resume duty . The letter is to the following effect: 


" This has reference to your application of todays date together with a 

Medical certificatc from Laxmi Ayurvedic Hospital. 
We find that you have absented yourself from 1st April 1963 to 15th May 

1063. It is not convincing that you were so sick that you could not 
şubmit your application within this 24 months time and your physical 
appearance does not appeal to us that you were actually sick . IIow 
ever , you are being allowed to resume your duties from today subject 
to the action to be taken for your absentecism for such a long time 
without information , 

Sd / 
MINES MANAGER , JAMSAR ." 


SEC, 8( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 / PHALGUNA I, 1886 


721 


Finally , however, by a letter dated the 14th September , 1963 , the Mines Manager 
dismissed Shri Devidan . The letter is as follows: 
" The Enquiry Officer appointed to enquire into the charges contained in 

the charge - sheet No. J / A - 13a /211/ 16 , dated the 13th April, 1983, hus 
submitted his report and found you guilty of the charges contained 
therein . In view of the charges proved against you , we have no 
other alternative but to dismiss you from service in accordance with 
the provisions, of standing order 22 ( a ). 


allowed to resume duty as per letter of the management dated 17th 
June 1963, subject to the action to be taken for your absenteeism for 
such a long time without intimation . You have, however , not given 
any reason why you should not submit this certificate and apply for 
leave in accordance with the standing orders. Accordingly we see 

no reason to differ with the findings of the Enquiry Officer . 
Please collect your dues if any from the office at any time during the 
working hours, on production of necessary clearance certificate . 

Yours faithfully , 
For BIKANER GYPSUMS LIMITED .” 


It will be seen that the workman was actually allowed to work with effect from 
the 17th June, 1963, upto as late as the 14th September , 1963 although the report 
of the Enquiry Officer had been already submitted on the 27th May , 1963. If the 
management was inclined to dismiss the workman on the findings of the Enquiry 
Offcer , there was ample time to take such a decision from the 22nd May , 1963 
upto the 17th June, 1963 or this could have been done cven after the workman 
made his application on the 17th June, 1963. Evidently , however, the manage 
ment took a lenient view of the matter and allowed the workman to resume duty , 
although with the reservation that this was subject to the action to be taken for 
his absenteeism , The action initially taken by the management and the contents 
of their letter dated the 17th June, 1963 do not scem to indicate that the manage 


have been inflicted for absenteeism although , of course , it was open to the 
management, under the standing orders , to have even dismissed him . In the 
circumstances of the case and , in view of the lenient view initially taken by the 
management, it was suggested by me at the hearing that the workman might be 
re- employed by way of fresh appointment on the same wage as at the time of 
dismissal but without any continuity of service. The management was not 
averse to the taking of such a step in accordance with the suggestion made by 
me. 


11 . In the case of Shri Subaniya also the position is almost exactly similar. 
After the enquiry report dated the 16th September , 1963 had been submitted by 
the Enquiry Omcer , he appeared and made an application on the 30th September , 
which has been produced and is an admitted document, Along with his applica 
tion was produced a health certificate dated the 29th Sentember. In the appli 
cation it was stated that since he was sick and under treatment at Bikaner he 
could not attend duty - from 1st August 1963 to 29th September, 1963 and he sought 
grant of leave for the same period and permission to rejoin . In the health 
certificate , which was also by the same Ayurvedic Practitioner as in the case of 
Shri Devidan , Shri Subaniya was stated to have been suffering from the same 
disease namely , " Jvaratişar " , but from 1st August 1963 to 29th September , 1983. 
In this case also by a letter dated the 30th September , 1963 the management 
allowed him to resume duty . The contents of the letter are as follows: 
" This has reference to your letter dated 30th September 1963 requesting 

us to allow you to resume your duties . 
We have to inform you in the matter as under : 
As the enquiry proceedings in respect of your casc are pending , you 

are allowed to resuine duties with effect from 30th September , 
1963 subject to the rights of the company to take action in your 

case in accordance with the final results of the enquiry ." 
Since the report of the Enquiry Oncer had heen already received long before 
Shri Subanlya joined and made his application , the management, if they intended 
to dismiss him could have done so under the standing orders of the Mines but 
here also they seem to have taken a lenient view by allowing him to resume 
duty with a reservation as to the action to be taken on the final result of the 
enquiry . That action could have been something less than dismissal as appears 


722 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 /PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


(PART II 


from the trend of the action taken . However , by a final letter dated the 8th 
November , which is as follows the workman was dismissed :- - 
" The Enquiry Officer appointed to enquire into the charges contained in the 

charge - sheet dated 19th August, 1963 has submitted his report and 
found you guilty of the charges contained in the charge - sheet . On 
the 30th September , 1963, you had submitted a Health Certificate and 
you were allowed to join duty subject to the right of the company 
to take action on the results of the enquiry . As the results of the 
enquiry have gone against you and the charges against you have 
been proved , you are liable to dismissal under the Standing Orders , 
Neither your application dated 30th September 1963 nor the Health 
Certificate dated 29th September 1963 are sufficient for condona 
tion of the misconduct which has been amply proved against you . 
In the circumstances, you are hereby dismissed from service in 

accordance with Standing Order 22 ( a ) . 
Please collect your dues , if any, from the office at any time during working 
hours . 

Yours faithfully , 

For BIKANER GYPSUMS LIMITED ." 
In the circumstances of the case I made a proposal to the parties similar to the 
one made in the case of Shri Devidan and the management did not seem to be 
averse to the step proposed . I accordingly direct that both Shri Devidan and 
Shri Subaniya be re - employed by the management by way of a fresh employ 
ment (without continuity of service ) but on the same wage as each of them was 
drawing on the date of dismissal. 
Item No. 2 of the Dispute : 

12 . In regard to this item the union has averred that it did not wish to pro 
ceed with the dispute and as such no directions are called for . The management, 
however , while giving the facts of its case , as already stated above, has made an 
averment that there is no reason to interfere with the action taken by the 
management. The Arst point that arises for consideration , however , is whether , 
in these circumstances, I as Arbitrator should giyn any award in regard to this 
matter . Having given my anxious consideration to this point, I have no doubt 
that I am bound, under the law to make an award in 1hese circumstances . The 
parties having entered into an agreement to refer the dispute to me as Arbitrator 
and the agreement having been published by Governinent Order , I have no alter 
native but to make an award irrespective of the present attitude of the union , 
The union has not actually stated that it withdraws this dispute and its averment 
amounts only to non - pleading of the case of Shri Manan Dev Mishra , In 1964 
8 F . L . R . 32 British India Corporation Ltd ., Kanpur V8. Labour Court, Kanpur and 
others , it was held by the Allahabad High Court, that " where the dispute referred 
to the Tribunal was whether the play -off was wrongful or unjustified and whether 
upon its findings on that issue the workmen were entitled to any relict or not, 
it was not open to the Tribunal to answer the reference without determining the 
question whether the play - off was justified or not, and merely because the work 
men , after Aling their claim and written statement, absented themselves the 
Tribunal was not absolved of its duty to decide on merits the question whether 
the play - off was justified or not. It was held that the Tribunal should have 
decided this question , after considering the pleadings of the parties and the 
evidence produced by the employers" . In A . I. R . 1917 Lahore, 65 . Nathu Mal and 
another v . Muhammad shafi . it was held by a Division Bench of the High Court , 
consisting of Johnstone, C . J . and Chevis , J. that " where there has once been a 
valid reference to arbitration , the arbitrator is entitled to proceed with it , even 
if one of the parties refuses to submit to his arbitration ." This is a more direct 
decision and its principles are fully applicable to the facts of the present case , 
although the decision is based on the provisions of the old Civil Procedure Code . 
Section 10A sub - section ( 3 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 as amended , lays 
down that a copy of the arbitration agreement shall be forwarded to the appro 
priate Government and the conciliation officer and the appropriate Government 
shall , within fourteen days from the date of the receipt of such copy, publish the 
same in the Omcial Gazette . Sub - section ( 4 ) lays down that the arbitrator or 
arbitrators shall investigate the dispute and submit to the appropriate Government 
the arbitration award signed by the arbitrator or all the arbitrators. as the 
case may be. It follows, therefore , that after the arbitration agreement hos heen 
published the arbitrator has no alternative but to investigate the dispute and 
submit his award to the appropriate Government irrespective of the attitude of 


merits. 


Sec, 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 /PHALGUNA 1, 1888 


13 . In view of the fact that the union has not made any averments on this 
item of the dispute while the management has given the full facts of the case 
which have not been controverted I have no alternative but to conclude that 


of the company Shri Manan Dey Mishra was charge -sheeted for sleeping while on 
duty which is a gross misconduct under Clause 21 ( a ) ( xi ) of the standing orders . 
The charge - sheet was issued on the report of two Time Keepers based on their 
surprise check and a regular enquiry was held at which witnesses were examined 
in thc presence of Shri Manan Dev Misra who was allowed to cross -examine 
them . He was also permitted to produce his defence . The Enquiry Officer in 
his report found the workman guilty of the charges contained in the charge 
sheet. Instead of dismissing the workman , as they could have very well done, 
the management simply gave an order stopping his increment for one year along 
with a warning for future conduct. I see no reason to interfere with this action 
of the management and make an award accordingly . 


Item No. 3 of the Dispute : 

14 . The claim of the union in this matter is based on the provisions of Chapter 
VII of the Mines Act , 1952, namely Sections 52 and 53 and on Rule 54 of the 
Mines Rules 1955 . Under Section 52 of the Mines Act, every person employed in 
the Mines, who has completed a calendar year s service therein , has to be allowed 
during the subsequent calendar year, leave with wages for the period mentioned 
in sub - section ( 1 ) of that section . Therefore , according to the management, leave 
earned by the employee during a calendar year can be availed of by him in the 
subsequent calendar year only and not before. Again under sub -section ( 8 ) of 
Section 52 of the Mines Act, if the employment of a person employed in a mine 
is terminated by the owner, agent or manager of the mine before he has taken 
the entire leave to which he was entitled upto the date of the termination of his 
employment, or if such person having applied for and having not been granted 
such leave, quits his employment before he has taken the leave, the owner , 
agent or manager of the mine is required to pay him the amount payable under 
section 53 of the Mines Act in respect of the leave not taken and such payment 
has to be made within a certain period . According to the management therefore , 
the following proposition emerge from the relevant provisions of law or rules : 
( 1 ) leave accrues to an employee only in the subsequent year and he is not to 
avail of it before that and there should be no question of encashment of any 
leave before it has accrued . The employee whose scrvices have been terminated 
cannot therefore encash the leave for the year pro rata in which his services have 
been terminated , as during that year he does not complete one year s service 
and is not entitled to any leave. ( 2 ) In the case of resignation , the precondition 
for encashment of the leave is that the employec has applied for it and has not 
been granted such leave. Even in respect of such leave not granted , he can be 
allowed to encash it only to the extent that he could avail of it at the time of his 
resignation in the circumstances similar to above. ( 3 ) Employees who are dis 
missed from service cannot be put on par with those whose services have been 
terminated by way of simple discharge . In their case no encashment of leave 
at the time of dismissal is permissible 

15 . I have carefully gone through the relevant provisions and have heard the 
learned representatives of the parties . It seems to me that the benefit of 
Section 52 ( 8 ) of the Mines Act will not be available to an employee who has not 
actually completed one calendar year of service , that is to say whose entire length 
of service is less than one year . In case of a person who has completed one 
Year s service , if his services are terminated during any subsequent calendar 
vear , it seems to me that he would be entitled to proportionate leave that he may 
be deemed to have earned upto the date of termination of his services in view of 
the specific provisions of sub - section 52 ( 8 ) . The word termination in the pro 


dismissal. To say that the entitlement of leave under Section 52 ( 8 ) is ronfined 
to the leave earned upto the end of the previous calendar year would I think be 
stretching the language of the provisions to the breaking point and would be 
inconsistent with the words in this provisions " leave to which he is entitled upto 
the day of termination of his employment. " ( 2 ) However in the case of a person 
who resigns or otherwise quits his employment during a calendar year, it seems, 
the entitlement of leave would be confined to what he has carned upto the end 
of the preceding calendar year. For any other interpretation of the provision 
would be inconsistent with the condition " il such person having applied for and 
having not heen granted such leave," . The person concerned could not have 
applied for any leave supposed to have been carned during that calendar year 
in view of the provisions of Section 52 . Therefore , a person who resigns or other 
wise quits his employment during a calendar year would be entitled only to 


724 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 /PHALGUNA 1, 1886 
TH 


[PART II-- 


the leave earned by him upto the close of the preceding calendar year, ( 3 ) In 
cages governed by Clause 28 read with 28 ( c ) of the standing orders , the longer 
period of earned leave will be available but with the same limitations as explained 
above under the Mines Act. The learned representatives of the parties were not 
able to say anything against the above interpretation of the relevant provisions. 

16 . I, therefore , make an award as above on each of the matters in dispute . 
The award will be implemented within one month of its publication in the 
Oficial Gazette . 
( Fifteen pages ) . 
The 31st December, 1964 . 

(Sd.) ANAND NARAIN KAUL , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi. 

[No . 24 /8 /64-LRI.] 


New Delhi, the 15th February 1965 
S . O . 642 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of applications under section 33A 
of the said Act, from Sarvashri Ramchandra and Jogeswar, miners , 6 and 7 Fits 
Colliery , Jamadoba , which was received by the Central Government on the 9th 
February 1965 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 

In the matter of Complaints under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 (XIV of 47). 

COMPLAINT No. 15 OF 1963 

(Arising out of Reference No. 47 of 1962 ) 
PARTIES : 
Shri Ramchandra , Miner of 6 and 7 Pits Colliery , Jamadoba C / o Secretary , 

Tata Collieries Workers Union , Digwadih , P . O . Jealgora Dt. Dhanbad 
- Complainanı. 


The Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd . Jamadoba, P .O . Jealgora , Dt. Dhanbad , 
- Opposite Party . 

COMPLAINT NO . 1 OF 1964 

(Arising out of Reference No . 47 of 1962 ) 
PARTIES : 
Sri Jogeswar, Miner, 6 & 7 Pits Jamądoba Colliery C / o Secretary , Tata 
Collierles Works Union , Digwadih P . O . Jealgora. - Complainant, 

V8, 
The Tata Iron and Steel Co . Ltd ., Jamadoba P .O , Jealgora , Dt. Dhanbad . 

Opposite Party . 
PRESENT ; 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad , M . A ., B . L ., — Presiding Officer, 
APPEARANCES : 
For the Complainants - Sri P . Chanda, President, Tata Comerles Workers 

Union , 
For the Opposite Party - Sarvashree S . N . Singh , Legal Assistant and N . Sen , 

Welfare Officer . 
STATE : Bihar. 

INDUSTRY ; Coal. 
Dhanbad , dated the 16th January, 196.5 

AWARD 
As common questions of law arise , on the preliminary objection raised on behall 
of the management in both these cases , I have decided to give one common award 
In both these complaints . 


SEC , 3( 1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 . 1965 / PHALGUNA 1 , 1886 


725 


2 . Complaint No . 15 of 1963 was Aled on 16th May , 1903 by Ramchandra , Miner 
of 8 and 7 Pits Colliery , Jamadoba , complaining against his dismissal with effect 
from 1st May, 1963. Complaint No. 1 of 1964 was made on 2nd January 1964 by 
Jogeswar Miner of 6 and 7 Pits Jamadoba Coliery complaining against his dis 
missal from the service of the company since 23rd May 1983. Both these com 
plaints were made against the same employer , namely , Tata Iron and Steel Co . 
Ltd ., Jamadoba, owners of R and 7 Pits Jamadoba Colliery and were made in Re 
ference No . 47 of 1962, 

3 . It may be mentioned that in Complaint No. 1 of 1964, Reference No. 42 of 
1963 was also added but in course of argument subsequently nd reliance was 
placed on that Reference because that Reference was made on 6th June 1968 
whereas the workmán concerned in that complaint was dismissed on 1st June 
1963 before the Reference was made. 


4 . Sri S . N . Singh , for the company opposlte party , took up a preliminary 
objection in both the complaints, to their maintainability on the ground that none 
of the two complainants were workmen concerned within the meaning of Sub 
section ( 2 ) of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 in Reference No. 47 
of 1962, and , as such , there was no question of any contravention of Section 33 of 
the Act and , therefore , the two complainants had no right to make any com 
plaint under Section 33A of the Act. 

5 . Sri Chanda. who appeared for the two complainants in the two complaints , 
contended that these complainants must be deemed to be workman concerned 
within the meaning of Section 33 ( 2 ) in Reference No. 47 of 1962 because the 
workmen in Reference No. 47 of 1982 and the two complainants were represented 
by the same Union , namely , Tata Collieries Workers Union and were of the same 
category 1 . e , were miners and were working in the same colllery l. e . 6 and ? FIS 
Colllery and under the same employers and , therefore, there was no merit in the 
preliminary objection of the company , 

6 . In order to decide this question it is Arst necessary to know the nature of 
the dispute in these two complaints and in the Reference No. 47 of 1962 , Sri Singh , 
in reply , conceded that these two complainants and the workmen concerned in 
Reference No. 47 of 1982 were represented by the same union , working in the same 
colliery , and were workers of the same categoru . but he submitted that these three 
grounds were not true tests in law for holding that these two complainants were 
workman concerned within the meaning of Section 33 ( 2 ) of the Act in Reference 
No. 47 of 1982, in that , the dispute in Reterence No. 47 of 1962 was not a represen 
tative dispute but it was concerned only with the dismissal of three Individual 
miners and it was not at all concerned with any principle which could bind all the 
miners of the colliery . 

REFERENCE No. 47 OF 1962 
7 . In Reference No. 47 of 1982 the item of dispute referred was in the following 
terms: -- - 
" Whether the dismissal of Sarvashri Basdev Pasman , Bhairo Mondal and 

Upendra Mondal, Miners. by the management of Jamadoba 6 and 7 
Pits Colliery owned by Messrs . Tata Iron and Steel Co , Ltd ., P . O . 
Jealgora ( Dit . Dhanbad ) was justifed ? If not, to what relief are 

they entitled ? " 
This reference was dated 27th November 1962 and an award was given on 21st 
July 1963 in favour of the workmen by holding that the dismissal of the three 
workmen concerned in that reference was unjustified From the award in that Re 
ference published in the Gazette of India dated 28th September 1983, at page 3551, 
it will appear that no principle was involved nor that dispute was a representative 
one in which all the workmen as a class or as a category were involved nor was 
it concerned with any policy , nor did it call for any decision of any matter which 
could bind not only the three workmen concerned in that reference but also other 
miners who were working in that Colliery . That reference was concerned with 
three individual cases and their individual rights only were confined as to whether 
their dismissals were justified or not. In this view of the matter, I am afraid 1 
must reject the contention of Sri Chanda and accept the contention of Sri Singh 
for the company , 


8 . In the present case also , the two complainants are concerned with their Indl 
vidual dismissal and rights and their dismissals have nothing to do with the other 
workmen of the Colliery and , therefore , the fact that these two Complainants , like 
the three workmen concerned in Reference No. 47 of 1962, are Miners of the same 
Colliery working under the game employer and are represented by the same union 
does not at all improve the position in law , 


726 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PIIALGUNA 1, 1886 


(PART II 


g . For the reasons given above, I, therefore , hold that these two complaints are 
not maintainable as they were not workman concernerl within the meaning of 
Section 33 ( 2 ) of that Act in Reference No. 47 of 1982, and , as such these two com 
plaints are rejected in limina as not maintainable . 

10 . This is the award which I make and submit to the Government of India 
under Section 15 of the Act . 

Sd . / - RAJ KISHORE PRASAD , 
Dhanbad : Dated the 15th January , 1965. 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad , 
(No . 2 / 112 / 62-LRII. ] 


$ . O , 643. In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal , Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Khas Karanpura Colliery , Post Office Patratu , and their work 
men , which was received by the Central Government on the 8th February 1965. 


DHANBAD 
In the matter of a Reference under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) 
Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 47 ) . 


of the 


Industrial 


REFERENCE No. 25 or 1963 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Khas Karanpura Colliery , P . O . Patratu , 

AND 
Their workmen . 
PRESENT: 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad , M . A ., B . L ., Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers: Sri S . S . Mukherjee , Advocate . 

For the Workmen : Sri S . K , Mukherjee , Advocate . 
STATE : Bihar. 

INDUSTRY : Çoal. 
Dhanbad , dated the 29th January , 1965 


AWARD 
Ministry of Labour & Employment, Government of India , by its Order 
No. 2 / 11 /63 -LRIT , dated the 20th March 1963, referred under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, an industrial dispute existing between the 
employers in relation to Khas Karanpura Colliery and their workmen in respect 
of the matter specified in the schedule below to this Tribunal for adjudication , 


SCHEDULE 
" 1. Whether the action of the management of Khas Karanpura Colliery in 

verbally stopping from work Sri Joseph Minz , an Attendance Clerk , 
with effect from the 22nd November, 1962 and not paying him wages 

through regular wage sheets was justified ? 
2 . If not, to what relief Shri Joseph Minz is entitled ? " 
2 . Sri S . S . Mukherjee, Advocate, appeared for the company and Sri S . K . 
Mukherjee , Advocate, appcared for the workmen concerned . Both the parties 
took time on 18th January , 1965 for final settlement of the dispute and todav 
they fled a compromise petition dated 29th January . 1965 , sioned by Sri S S . 
Mukherjee , Advocate , on behalf of the employers and Sri S . K , Mukherjee, Advo 
cate , on behalf of the workmon concerned ; Sri D . D . Sinha. Branch Secretary , 
Colliery Staff Association , and the concerned workman himself, mentioning 
therein the terms of their agreement. 


Sec, 8 (it) 7 . THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA I , 1886 


731 


3 . According to the agreement, the reinstatement of the concerned workman 
was not pressed and , therefore , it was agreed that the service of the workman 
will stand terminated with effect from the date he was dismissed ; but the 
employees agreed to pay a sum of Rs. 1500 / - to the concerned workman as an 
ex - gratia payment in full and final settlement of all his clainis till the date of 
this compromise . It was further agreed that the aforesaid amount will be paid 
to the concerned workman within seven days from today ( 29th January , 1965 ) , 
and , that the parties will bear their costs of these proceedings. The parties 
prayed that an award in terms of the above agreement be made. 

4 . I have read and considered the terms of the compromise and think they are 
fair and reasonable and in the interest of the parties and , therefore , I accept the 
same and record the compromise . 

5 . The aforesaid compromise is marked Annexure A and an award in terms 
of it as prayed for by the parties is made and this compromise is made a part 
of the award , 

6 . This is the award which I make and submit to the Government of India 
under Section 15 of the Act. 
Dhanbad 
Dated the 29th January , 1965 . 

Sd ./ - RAJ KISHORF, PRASAD , 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad , 


ANNEXURE " A " 
BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER CENTRAL GOVERNMENT 

INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No . 25 OF 1963 
Employers in relation to the Khas Karanpura Colliery . 


AND 
Their workmen . 
That without Prejudice to the respective contentions of the parties, the 

above reference has been amicably settled between the parties on the 
following terms, 


his service will stand terminated with effect from the date he was dismissed , 

2 . That the Employers will pay a sum of Rs 1500 (Afteen hundred ) to Shri 
Joseph Minz as an er gratia payment in full and final settlement of all his claim 
till the date of this compromise . 

3. That the above amount will be paid to Joseph Minz within 7 ( seven days ) 
from date in the office of the Tribunal. 

4 . That the parties will bear own their own respective costs of this pro 
ceedigns . 
It is therefore humbly prayed that an award may kindly be passed in 

terms of the above compromise . 
And for this your petitioners as in duty bound shall pray. 
Dated 29 - 1- 1965 . 

For Employers . 


Advocate . 


For Workmen . 
1 . JOSEPH MINZ, 

Workman . 
S . K , MUKHERJEE , 

Advocate . 
2. D . D . SINHA, 

Branch Secretary 
Colliery Staff Association , 


[ No . 2 / 11/ 63 - LRII ] 


728 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; FEBRUARY 20, 1965 / PHALGUNA I, 1886 


(PART II – 


$ . 0 . 844 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Bhadra Colliery ( Rewa Mining Syndicate) , Post Office Kotma. 
and their workmen which was received by the Central Government on the 8th 
February , 1965 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT BOMBAY 

REFERENCE C .G .I. T , No . 2 OF 1963 
Employers in relation to the Bhadra Colliery 
(Rewa Mining Syndicate ) , P . O . Kotma. 

AND 
Their workmen . 
PRESENT : 

Shri Salim M , Merchant, Presiding Officer . 
For the Employers : Shri D . O . Sanghvi, Advocate with Shri Ashok 

Kapur , Director . 
For the Workmen : Shri K , B , Chougule, Authorized Representative . 

At Bombay this 6th day of February, 1965 
INDUSTRY; Coal Mining. 

STATE : Madhya Pradesh . 

AWARD 
The Central Government, by the Ministry of Labour and Employinent s Order 
No. 5 / 31 /62 - LR - II , dated 29th January , 1963, made in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section (1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act 1947 (Act XIV of 1947 ) was pleased to refer the industrial dispute between 
the parties above named in respect of the following subject matters to ine for 
adjudication : 

SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Whether the management of the Bhadra Colliery was justifed in dis 
missing the following workmen with effect from the 13th September , 1961, 
namely : 

1. Shri Sirajoo , Underground Trammer . 
2. Shri Sabhapati, Surface Trammer , 
3 . Shri Jokhooram , Surface Trammer 
4 . Shri Mayaram , Reliever . 
5 . Shri Shyamlal Miner . 
6 . Shri Gangaram , Miner . 
7. Shri Ramcharan , Surface Trammer, 
8 . Shri Motisingh , Banks man . 
9. Shri Chandrabhan , Ash Cooly . 
10 . Shri Budhasen , Miner . 
11. Shri Chohandas, Miner , 
12. Shri Sumant, H . Khalasi. 

13. Shri Vishwanath Pandey, H . Khalasi, 
( 2 ) If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 

2 . At the adjourned hearing of this dispute at Bombay on 5th February , 
1965, the parties Aled a joint application recording the terms of settlement reach 
ed between them and have prayed that an Award be made in terms thereof, A 
copy of the said joint application of the parties, dated 5th February , 1965, is 
annexed hereto and marked " Annexure A " . 

3 . As I am satisfled that the terms of settlement are fair and reasonable and 
in the interest of industrial peace, I make an Award in terms of Annexure " A " , 
which shall form part of this Award , 
4 . No order for costs . 

Sd , - SALIM M , MERCHANT, 

Presiding Oficer, 


SEC, 8( 11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


729 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT BOMBAY 


BETWEEN 


The Management of Rewa Mining Syndicate 

Bhadra Colliery , Kotma ( M . P .) 


AND 


Their Workmen , 


May it Please the Hon ble Tribunal, 

Parties to this reference have arrived at the settlement, the terms whereof 
are as follows and pray that the Hon ble Tribunal may be pleased to pass an 
award in terms of the settlement: -- - 


Consent Terms 


order of reference to this Hon ble Tribunal, the management agree to employ the 
following 10 persons afresh in their respective categories from the date they 
report for work provided they report for employment on or before 10th March 
1965 . Those workmen who will not report for work on or before 10th March 
1965 will not be entitled to employment. Each one of the said ten workmen shall 
be paid Rs. 100 / - ( Rupee one hundred only ) by the management in full settle 
ment of all the claims of each one of them in respect of their service upto 
27th October 1961 : - - 

1 . Shri Sirajoo, who was underground trammer . 
2 . Shri Sabhapati, who was surface trammer. 
3 . Shri Jokhuram , who was surface trammer. 
4 . Shri Mayaram who was a rellver , 
5 . Shri Shyamlal, who was a miner. 
6 . Shri Gangaram who was a miner . 
7 . Shri Ramcharan who was a surface trammer. 
8 . Shri Motising who was a Banksman , 
9. Shri Budhasen who was a miner . 
10 . Shri Chohardas who was a miner , 


II. The parties agree that as Shri Vishwanath Pandey who was a khalasi whose 
name is at serial No . 13 in the order of reference is already employed by the 
management as regard him the dispute now does not survive , 

III. The management agree to pay to the two workmen whose names are in the 
schedule to the order of reference at serial No. 9 , Shri Chandrabhan who was ash 
coolie and at serial No. 12 , Shri Sumant who was H Khalasi Rs. 1000 ( Rupees one 
thousand only ) each in full and Anal settlement of all their claims against the 
management arising out of their service upto 27th October , 1961 including that of 
reinstatement, 


Dated this 5th day of February , 1965 . 
For the workmen . 
Sd ./ - K . B , CHOUGULE , 
Secretary , 

For Rewa Mining Syndicate , Bhadra Colllery . 
Indian National Mine Workers 

(Sd.) Illegible , 
Federation and Authorised 

Director, 
Representative of the Workmen , 

for Management. 


720 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA I, 1886 


(PART II 


S . O . 643 . - - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Hyderabad in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Singareni Collieries Company Limited , Kothagudium , and their 
workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 11th February , 
1965 . 


BEFORE THE HON BLE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , ANDHRA PRADESH , 

HYDERABAD 


PRESENT; 


Dr. Mir Siadat Ali Khan , M . A ., LL . B ., Fazel (Osm ) ; B . C .L ., (Oxon ); D : Phil . , 

(Oxon ); Bar -at-Law ; ( Lincoln s Inn ) (London ); Chairman , Industrial 
Tribunal, Andhra Pradesh , Hyderabad . 


INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE No . 40 OF 1964 


BETWEEN : 


Workmen of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd ., Kothagudium . 

AND 
The Management of Singareni Collleries Ltd ., Kothagudium . 
APPEARANCES : 

Sri M , Komariah , General Secretary , Singareni Collleries Workers Union for 
Workmen . 

Sri T . P . Solomanraj, Welfare Officer of the Singareni Collierles - for the 
Management. 


AWARD 


By the Government of India , Ministry of Labour and Employment s letter 
No . 7 / 11 / 64 -LR . II, dated 22nd September 1964 the industrial dispute between the 
employers of the Singareni Collier les Company Limited , Kothagudem , and their 
workmen was referred for adjudication with the following issues framed viz ., 


Limited , Kothagudium mentioned below , who were promoted as coal 

cutters on 8th July 1963 , has been properly fixed : 
M / s Bada Ballah , Chandragiri Komariah , Rajahmad , Boya Rajam , Kanu 

kuntla Venkaty , Mahabeer Singh Gudla Sailoo, Adapal Gopiah , 
Paltham Malliah , Gadam Venkaty , Mekala Kanniah , Chengagarapu 
Veeramalloo , Illattori, Saheb , Dunra Arjuna , Kalkoti Malllah , Rama 
prasad , Puli Lingloo , Appala Durglah , Bangari Mondi, Kommula 
Elliah , Mandapuri Ramuloo, Mekala Deviah , Madagiri Ramulu , Md. 
Ankoos, Yasa Malllah , Bangari Rajam , Soopari Macham , Gajula 
Malliah , Samanthula Odeloo , Kukkamudi Elliah , Kalvala Laxmiah , 
N Venkataratnam , Abdul Subhan , Fakeer Ahmad , Sallori Malliah , 
Mittapalli , Rajam , Bandari Ramuloo , Bokka Satyam , Tammanapudi 
Saiboo , Ramancha Malliah , Radrapu Rajam , Kunch Pallaiah and 
Mamidi Momariah , 


2. If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled ? " 
2 . The reference was registered here as industrial dispute No. 40 / 1964. The 
parties adduced one witness each and Aled a few documents . Arguments have 
been heard . 


3 . Briefly , the facts are that the employer took the several Allers mentioned 
in the Schedule on the posts of coal cutters from 8th July 1963. Admittedly , 
under the Coal Award , the Allers though piece - rated are considered as Category V 
workmen for the purpose of minimum guaranteed wages and the coal cutters 
are daily - rated workmen , Category VI special. The employer started them at the 
minimum daily wage of Category VI special viz ., Rs. 1. 50 Ps. basic . The work 
men s stand is that the said Axation of wages is incorrect and proper wages in 


SEC , $ ( ü )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


21 


Category VI special should be fixed for them . They want that it should be based 
on the average daily earnings, say , of a month of the several fillers under coll 
sideration . They state also that the maximum daily basic wage of Category 
VI special is Rs. 2 . 16 Ps, but, their representative Sri M . Kumarayya made it 
clear that he does not want that the fixation should be at the maximum of 
Rs. 2 . 16 Ps. He has stated that he has worked out the above -mentioned average 
of these workmen s wages and it has come to Rs. 1 . 94 Ps. This should be the 
wage fixed for them on 8th July 1963 . But, if the employer works out any other 
average on the record of their earnings he will accept the same. However, he has 
also claimed that normal increment of the grade should also be awarded ." 

3 . ( 1 ) The employer is not agreeable . His stand is that here is a case of 
fresh appointments . The Allers under consideration were appointed afresh on 
their applications. They were told at the time of the appointment that they will 
be given a basic wage of Rs. 1. 50 Ps. They have accepted the same and , there 
fore, they are estopped from claiming any refixation of their wages. Another 
prop of the employer s stand is that the fillers are piece- raters and the coal cutters 
are daily - raters under the Coal Award . The wages of Aller s are comprised of 
many allowances and vary according to the work turned out. Hence, it is difficult 
and unpractical to work out any average . The said wages differ from Aller to 
Aller and vary also according to the number of days worked . Again , the wages 
vary according to the pushing and other allowances earned and that is why it is 
difficult and unpractical to determine the average wage . In paragraph 8 of the 
counter the employer has also contended that, if the fillers are to be fixed in coal 
cutters scale at a stage above the average pay as is demanded by the Union , 
the maximum of the scale of coal cutters would be much less than the average 
pay of atleast some of the fillers under reference. This principle if adopted would 
entail fixing many of these Allers, although appointed to the same job on the 
same date , and none of them having acquired any experience as coal cutter , at 
different stages in coal cutters scale . It would also throw an increasing burden 
on the employer and would reflect upon the cost of production without any 
corresponding advantage to the industry . 

3. ( 2 ) I have considered the above contentions of the employer carefully . I 
am afraid I do not agrce. It appears to me that the employer s case rests mainly 
on the appointments of the Allers being fresh appointments . The question is 
whether it is so . The representative of the employer waxed eloquent on this 
point and contended that the fact that the appointments were fresh is fully proy 
ed : applications were invited , four officers of the company interviewed more 
than 74 fillers and out of them selected the Allers mentioned in the Schedule to the 
order of reference . They were told that they are appointed as coal cutters and 
that they will be given a wage of Rs. 1. 50 Ps. per day and that they would 
have to work in a gang of four. He contended and his contention is correct that 
all this is proved by evidence . However , it should be noted that M . W . 1 , who 
was one of the four officers who interviewed the fillers, has conceded in his 
deposition that, though when a filler is appointed as a coal cutter his service as 
a coal cutter will be fresh , yet , his previous service for all other purposes will 
not be ignored . It is , therefore , evident that when previous service is not ignored 
it cannot be a fresh appointment. Fresh appointment means beginning at a 
scratch , It will be straining the language too much to agree with the employer 
that the appointments of the Allers under consideration were fresh appointments 
when for all purposes their past services are to be counted . I, therefore , do not 
agree with this Arm stand of the employer that the appointments were fresh . 

3. ( 3 ) Similarly , I do not agree with the contention in the employer s counter 
that as the workmen accepted the wage of Rs, 1.50 Ps , per day , they are estopped 
from demanding more . The reason is that it is an elementary principle of Indus 
trial Law that workmen cannot contract out of any benefit conferred on them . 
In view of this principle , if on the record of this case , the workmen are held to 
have been entitled to a refixation of wages, they would certainly get it and the 
plea of estoppel will not avail, 

3 . ( 4 ) The employer also insisted that the appointments were not promotions. 
It is admitted , however, that under Coal Award coal cutters basic grade is Rs. 
1.50 Ps. to 2. 16 Ps. and . under the same Award fillers are admittedly placed 
under Category V and the basic grade of Category V iş Rs. 1. 31 to 1, 85 Ps. It is , 
therefore, evident that when a filler is appointed to be a coal cutter the basic 
wage was higher. In the conciliation meeting dated 9th April 1964 the manage 
ment s representative stated that the management has called for applications 
from all lower category workmen desirous of working as coal cutters . This would 
also show that it was admitted that Allers were of a lower category and they 
were sought to be appointed to a higher category . Obviously , this means pro 
motion . But, whethei it is a promotion or not may not be emphasised . Evi 
dently , here was a change of job or a transfer from one job to another . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 /PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


[Part I ) 


732 


3 . (5 ) The question , therefore is why in such circumstances should I not con 
sider the demand of the workmen for proper fixation of wages in the Category 
Vi special to have been correctly made ? In 1963 some coal cutters were 
appointed Shot- firers in Bellampalll Division and they were given the maximum 
of the grade of Rs. 43 - 3 - 52, viz ., Rs. 52. This was because the coal cutters were 
then piece- raters and were getting an average of Fis , 60 to 70 per month and , 
hence , on promotion they were all fixed at Rs. 52 per month . But, similar treat 
ment was not meted out to the other piece - rated coal cutters who had been 
promoted as shot - firers earlier from 1956 – 62. The Bellampalli Branch of the 
Singareni Collieries workers Union , therefore , demanded a higher fixation for all 
of them and this was agreed to by the management and similar higher fixation 
was done in their cases also . Obviously , as in the case under consideration also 
the piece - rated coal Allers are promoted to be daily - rated coal cutters , the same 
principle should apply . But, it was contended on behalf of the employer that 
the analogy of Bellampalli agreement is not applicable here, for the reason that, 
the company was then faced with the dearth of shot- firers , and there was a 
danger of closing it down on that ground . Hence, the company made the agree 
nient in exceptional circumstances which do not exist now . Secondly , the com 
pany agreed also as some fillers of the Bellampalli Division had passed the shot 
hrer examination and the company thought that the higher fixation to which it 
agreed would enable them to pass even higher examinations and they would thus 
become eligible for higher posts like those of Sardars. This circumstance again 
is not present now . The Allers under consideration have not passed the shot- firer 
examination . I concede that analogies do not walk on all fours . I may , how 
ever , point out that if the Bellampalli agreement of 1963 was made when the 
company was faced with the dearth of shot- firers why did it agree to revise the 
cases of all the coal cutters from 1956 to 1962 . Obviously , because the demand 
was reasonable . And it appears to me also that the company s administrative 
consideration of enabling shot-frers to appear for examinations for higher posts 
may also be applicable in this case . The fillers have now become coal cutters 
they may qualify themselves for the posts of shot- Arers and then for those of 
Sardars and so on . There appears to be no reason why the employer should 
have administrative imagination in that case and not have it here . 


3 . ( 6 ) Similarly , I do not agree with the contention of the representative of 
the employer that it is difficult and unpractical to And out the average earnings 
of the Allers under consideration . As already stated, the reasons advanced for 
the same are that earnings in a given period are different owing to difference in 
individual turn out; the numbers of days worked and the various allowances 
earned . It appears to me obvious that inspite of these differences wages were 
earned in a given period and therefore average per head can also be worked 
out. In fact, Sri M , Kumarayya has worked out the average and according to 
him it is Rs. 1, 94 Ps. He has also stated that if this average is incorrect and the 
employer works out another average on the record of the carnings and shows 
it to him he will accept it. Again the other contention in the employer s counter 
that the earnings of the many of coal fillers under consideration were more than 
even the maximum of category VI special, is neither here nor there . The said 
workmen knew what their earnings were. Even so , they accepted the jobs of 
coal cutters and Sri Kumarayya on their behalf is urging the proper fixation of 
wage in Category VI special at Rs. 1 . 94 Ps. This alone is to the point. The con 
tention of the employer that coal fillers when appointed as coal cutters do not 
have any experience of the job is not correct . M . W . 1 has admitted that the 
company prefers and usually appoints coal cutters from the category of fillers 
because of their experience as fillers come handy in the job of a coal cutter. 
Hence , if the company has to pay more by the appointment it gets more 
experienced persons as coal cutters . 


4 . For the reasons detailed above I held that the wages of the Allers specified 
in the Schedule appointed as coal cutters have not been properly fixed . Sri 
Kumarayya has worked out the average of the daily earnings of the Allers under 
consideration and has specified it in the claims statement. The employer in the 
counter or in evidence or argument did not specifically questioned it by showing 
it to be wrong. As already stated the employer took the stand that it was not 
practical to work out the said average . I have not accepted this contention and 
have specifically held above that, as the fillers earned wages before appointment 
as coal cutters , average can be worked out . All this incline me to hold that, 
as the employer did not specifically question the average of Rs. 1. 94 Ps, it is 
correct. 1, therefore, direct that the employer should refix the wages of each 
of the Allers under consideration not at Rs. 1, 50 Ps per day , but at Rs. 1. 94 Ps. 
The next question is about the dates from which the re - fixation would take 
effect. Sri Kumarayya has urged it to be the date of appointment or promotion 


SEC , 9(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1888 


733 


as coal cutters , viz ., 8th July 1963. Ile has also claimed the grade increment on 
Ist January 1984 . He argued towards the end of December 1964 and, therefore , 
did not make any mention of increment on 1st January 1905. The increments 
are provided in the scale and if I date the refixation from 8th July 1963 : the 
Allers will get two increments and the refixation will be at the maximum of the 
coal cutters grade of Rs. 2 . 16 Ps. It may be noted that Sri Kumarayya speci 
Acally stated that he does not claim refixation at the maximum of the grade. . I 
understand also that he has included one increment already while working out 
the average at Rs. 1.94 Ps. Considering all this , I direct the refixation should 
be from 1st January 1964 only . And it is to this relief that the workmen are 
entitled to . 

Report to Government, given under my hand and the seal of the Court, thly 
the 30th day of January 1965 . 

( $ d .) M . S . ALI KHAN , 

Industrial Tribunal. 
List of Witnesses examined for : 
Workmen : 

Employer : 
W . W . 1 ; SRI APPALA DURGAYYA . 

„ M . W . 1 : TEHMURUS M . DAVER . 
List of documents marked for Workmen : 
Ex . W1: Minutes of discussions held by the conciliation officer ( C ) 

Secunderabad on 29th September 1963 with the parties to this dis 

pute . 
Ex. W2: Memo, of settlement made during the Concillation Proceedings on 

30th November 1964 and 1st December 1964. 
Ex , W3: Copy of letter from the Conciliation Officer addressed to the Chief 
Labour Commissioner , New Delhi, along with 2 enclosures . 

List of documents marked for Management : 
Ex . M1: Note of the Under -Manager of the management Company reg . 

interview and selection of certain coal cutters . 
Ex. M2: Office Order of the Manager , 5 Incline of the Management, dated 
8th July , 1903. 

( Sd ) M . S . ALI KHAN , 

Industrial Tribunal. 
[ No. 7 / 11 / 64 -LRII. ] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 9th February 1965 
$ . 0 , 646 . — Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the Associated 
Cement Companies Limited , Nowrozabad Colliery , Post Office Nowrozabad (here 
inafter referred to as the said Company ) and their workmen represented by the 
Nowrozabad Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , Post Omce Nowrozabad , District Shahdol 
Madhya Pradesh ) (hereinafter referred to as the Union ) ; 

And whereas the said Company and the Union have by a written agreement, 
11 pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , referred the said dispute to arbitration of the 
person named therein , and a copy of the said arbitration agreement has been 
forwarded to the Central Government; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 10A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby 
publishes the said arbitration agreement, which was received by it on the 1st 
February , 1965 . 

AGREEMENT 
(Under Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947) 

BETWEEN 
NAMES OF PARTIES : 
Representing Employers : Mr. G . L . Govil, Senior Personnel Omcer , The A88Q 

ciated Cement Cos . Ltd . 
Representing Workmen : Mr. K . B . Chougule . General Secretary , Nowrozabad 

Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . 


734 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 /PHALGUNA 1, 1886 [Part 11 – 


It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following Industrial 
Disputes to the Arbitration of Mr. F . Jeejeebhoy , Retired President, Labour 
Appellate Tribunal of India , residing at Firuz Ara , Churchgate Reclamation , 
Bombay - 1. 


(i) Specific matters in dispute : 

( a ) Disputes specified in the following notifications copies of which are annex 
d hereto and collectively marked as Annexure A . 


Govt. of India, Ministry of Labour & Employment Published in the Gazette of India , 
Order , dated . . . . . . . 

Part II, Scc. 3 ( ii ) 
Notification 

Page 


Date 


19 - 11- 1962 


. 


3877 


S . O . 3549 24 - 11-62 
(In so far as Issues I & 5 only are concerned ; other 

issues have already been heard by the 
CGIT , Bombay). 
. 

. . . S . O . 396 1- 2 -64 
. . . . . $ . 0 . 2495 18 - 7 - 64 
. . . . . S . O . 2702 8 -8 - 64 


24 - I - 1964 . 

8 - 7 - 1964 , 
1 - 8 - 1964 . 


. 
. 
. 


461 
2940 
3096 


( b ) Whether each of the following complaints filed by the workmen before 
the Central Government, Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , under section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act and numbered by the said Tribunal as follows are main 
tainable under Section 33A as and when originally filed and if so to what relief 
the concerned complainants are entitled ? And in complaint No. 23 of 1964 in 
Addition to the issue as to whether the said complaint is maintainable and to 
what relief the workmen are entitled , the issue as to what is the effect of order , 
dated 29th February , 1964 of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bom 
bay, in Application Nos. 1 to 6 of 1964 shall be decided . 


Name(s) of the Complainant(s). 


No, as given by the 

Tribunal 


CGIT - 3 of 1963 
» 9 of 1963 


» 


StriLurka Dass . . . 
M /s.Ramadhar Nigam & 17 others . 
ShriGarib Dass . . , 
M /s . Ishwar Dags & 7 others 
M /8, K , K . Tiwari & Syed Noor 
Shri Mulloo Ram , . . 
Shri Rattan . . . 
Shri Baldeo . , 
Shri Bhim Sen 
M /8, Ramadhar Nigam & 5 others . 


20 of 1963 
21 of 1963 
25 of 1963 
27 of 1963 
28 of 1963 
11 of 1964 


» 
» 
> 


. 


The said disputes as speciflcd in para ( 1 ) ( a ) above were l eferred by the Central 
Government to Mr. Salim M . Merchant, the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal, Bombay for adjudication and the said complaints as specified in para 
( i ) ( b ) above were Aled by the concerned workmen before the said Tribunal, 
The parties by their joint application , dated 18th January , 1966 to the said 
Tribunal asked for permission to withdraw the aforesaid References and Com 
plaints and the said Tribunal by its Order , dated 27th January , 1965 , granted 
permission for withdrawal of all the aforesaid disputes and the Complaints : 
( 11) Details of the parties to the disputes including the name and address of the 

establishment or undertaking involved : 
( a ) The Associated Cement Cos . Ltd ., Nowrozabad Colliery , P . O . Nowrozabad. 


EC, 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1985 /PHALGUNA 1 , 1880 


735 


( b ) The workmen of the Nowrozabad Colliery as represented by the Nowroza 
had Colliery Mazdoor Şangh , P . O . Nowrozabad . 
(iii ) Name of the Union representing the workmen in question ; 

The Nowrozabad Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, P .O . Nowrozabad , Distt . Shahdol 
( M . P . ) . 
( Iv ) Estimated number of workmen affected or likely to be affected by the 
dispute : 

About 1900 , 


28 - 1 - 86 


We further agree that the decision of the said Arbitrator shall be binding on 
us. 
Witnesses : 

Signature of Parties : 
1 . Sd . / - Illegible (Representing Employer ) 

Sd. / - G . L . GOVIL , 
28 - 1 -85 
2 . Şd ./ - Illegible 

(Representing Workmen ) Sd / - K , B . CHOUGULE , 
I consent to act as Arbitrator , 

Sa ./ - F . JEEJEEBHOY. 
ANNEXURE A (Coll) 
Reference No . 45 of 1962 

ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 19th November 1962 


S . O , 3849 ,-— -Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Nowrozabad Colliery of 
M / S . Associated Cement Cos. Ltd ., P . O . Nowrozabad , Distt. Shahdol, Madhya 
Pradesh and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 


1. Whether the action of the management of Nowrozabad Colliery of M / s . 
Associated Cement Cos . Ltd ., in installing only one weighbridge at the washery 
for all the three inclines of the colliery is in due conformity and compliance 
with the letter and spirit of the terms of agreement, dated the 24th March 1960 
and forming a part of the compromise award , dated 31st March , 1960, passed by 
the Central Government Additional Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in Reference 
No. 1 of 1960 ? If not , to what relief are the concerned miners entitled : 


2 . Whether the following categories of workmen employed in the coal wash 
ing plant of Nowrozabad Colliery of M / s . Associated Cement Co . Ltd ., are 
entitled to : 

( a ) Revision of wage rates including dearness sind other allowances ; 
( b ) change of designation or categorisation ; 
( c ) supply of uniforms, 


If so to what extent and from what date ? 
Categories of workmen : 

( i ) Trammers. 
( ii) Tippler operators. 
( ii ) Washery Foreman 


226 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 [PART 11 


( iv ) Washery Assistant Foreman . 


( vi) Washery Helpers . 
( vii ) Washery Mazdoors . 
( vili ) Crusher supervisors. 
( ix ) Crusher helpers . 

( x ) Crusher & Chute attendants 
( xi ) Electricians. 
(xii ) Assistant Electricians. 
( xiii ) Fitters. 
( xiv ) Assistant Fitters. 
( xv ) Fitter & Electrician helpers. 
(xvi ) Shale & reject pickers . 
(xvii) Bull dozer operators . 
(xviii ) Bull Dozer Helpers. 
(xix ) Welders. 
( xx ) Greasers, 
( xxi) Oilmen . 

3 . Whether the management of Nowruzabad Colliery of M / s . Associated 
Cement Cos. Ltd ., was justified in discontinuing the leave and gratuity facilities 
originally admissible to Sarvashri Abdul Jalil Khan and Syed Noor in the Cement 
Works wherefrom they were transferred ? If not to what relief are those two 
workmen entitled in this respect? 

4 . Whether the management of Nowrozabad Colliery of M / s. Associated 
Cement Cos. Ltd ., was justified in not granting the general increment given to 
colliery workers in June 1960 to Shri Jalil Khan who was appointed in the col 
liery on the tenth January 1960 on relief from Kyinore Cement Works of the 
same company ? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? 

5 . Whether the present system of measurement adopted by the management 
of Nowrozabad Colliery of M / s . Associated Cement Cos. Ltd . , distinguish the 
quantity of coal mined by machine cut from those obtained by solid blasting is 
satisfactory ? If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 

6 . Whether the Crusher Supervisors employed in the Coal Washing Plant of 
Nowrozabad Colliery of M / s. Associated Cement Companies Limited are entitled 
to the payment of any extra wages for doing the work of taking down the 
attendance of the workmen working under them ? If so at what rate and from 
which date ? 

S . O . 396 . Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Nowrozabad Colliery . 
P . O . Nowrozabad , Distt. Shahdol. Madhya Pradesh , and their workmen in respect 
of the matters specified in the schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adiudication to the 


SCHEDULE 
1. Whether the payment of 50 Np per dav ner head made to the workmen by 
the comnany for the lead & lift in excess of 150 feet and 25 feet respectively is 
adequute ? If not, what should be the rate of payment to the workmen on this 
Account and from which date ? 

2 Whether the extra payment on account of excessive lead and lift should be 
made to those workmen to whom the management is now allowing it at present? 
If so to whom all and at what rate ? 

[No. 3 / 1 / 64 -LR .IJ.] 


SEC. 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1065 /PHALGUNA I, 1886 


739 


T 


New Delhi, the 8th July 1964 
S . O . 2495 . - Whereas , the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between thc employers in relation to Nowrozabad Colllery of 
Messrs Associated Cement Company Limited , Post Office Nowrozabad and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the schedule hereto annexed ; 


And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , constituted under Section 7A of the said Act . 


SCHEDULE 


1. Whether the dismissal from service of Shri Raghubans, Trammer of No . 3 
Incline was justified and proper ? 


2 . If not, to what relief is he entitled ? 


A . L . HANDA , Under Secy . 

[No. 5 / 7 / 64 - LR . II.) 


New Delhi, the 1st August 1984 


S . O . 2702. — Whereas , the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to Nowrozabad Colliery of 
Messrs Associated Cement Cos . Ltd ., Post Office Nowrozabad , Distt. Shahdol 
(Madhya Pradesh ) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
schedule hereto annexed ; 


And whereas , the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the seid 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Bombay , constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 


SCHEDULE 
1 . Whether the action of the management of Nowrozabad Colliery of M / s . 
Associated Cement Cos. Ltd ., in retiring Shri Inderpal ( s / o Matadin ) with effect 


2 . If so , to what relief is the workman entitled . 


[No. 5 / 10 /64-LRII. ] 
A . L . HANDA , Under Secy . 

[No. 5 / 3 /65 -LR .II.) 


New Delhi, the 10th February 1965 
S . O . 647 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial 
dispute cxists between the employers in relation to the New Lakurka Colliery 
of Messrs New Lakurka Colliery Company , Post Omce Katrasgarh ( Dhanbad ) , 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , Punstitund uncer section 7A of the said Act. 


738 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20, 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


[PART 11 


SCHEDULE 


Whether the action of the management of the New Lakurka Colliery of 

Messrs New Lakurka Colliery Company in retrenching from their 
gei vice Sarvashri Pashupati Pandey and Jagarnath Pandey , Depot 
Guards, with effect from the 1st January , 1965 , was justified ? If not, 
to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 


[No. 2 / 10 / 65 -LRII. ] 


S . O . 648. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Bhowra Colliery of Messrs 
Bhowra -Kankanee Collieries Limited , Post Office Bhowra, District Dhgnbad , and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clausę ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act , 


SCHEDULE 


Whether the action of the management of the Bhowra Colliery of Messrs 

Bhowra -Kankanee Collieries Limited , in terminating the services of 
Shri Kunjal Passi, Pick Miner , No. 3 Pit, with effect from the 6th 
November , 1964 and placing his name on the badli list from the said 
date was justified ? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? 

[ No. 2 / 6 / 65 - LRII: ] 


S . O . 649 . — Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the Associated 
Cement Companies Limited , Kotma Colliery , Post Omce Kotma Colliery 
and their workmen represented by the Kotma Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . 
Post Office Kotma Colliery (hereinafter referred to as the Union ) ; 


And , whereas the said Company and the Union have by a written agreement, 
in pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , referred the said dispute to arbitration of the 
person named therein , and a copy of the said arbitration agreement has been 
forwarded to the Central Government; 


Now , therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
10A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government 
hereby publishes the said arbitration agrerment, which was received by it on the 
3rd February , 1986 . 


AGREEMENT 


(Under Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ) , 


BETWEEN 


Names of parties : 
Representing Employers . — Mr. G . L . Govil, Senior Personnel Omcer , The 

Agsociated Cement Companies Limited . 
Representing Workomen - Mr. K . B . Chougule , President Kotma Colllery 

Mazdoor Sangh , P . O . Kotme Colliery . 
It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial dis 
nutes to the arbitration of Mr. F . Jecieebhov , retired President. Labour Appellate 
Tribunal of India , residing at Firuz Ara , Churchgate Reclamation , Bombay - 1 . 


SEC , 8(U)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


739 


Disputes specified in the following notifications copies of which are annexed 

hereto and collectively marked as Annexure A : 


Sr. No. 


Date of order of the 
Govt. of India , 
Ministry of Labour 
and Employment. 


Notification 
Number. 


Published in Gazette of India 

Part II Sec . 3 (li) 


Date 


Page 


649 


31- 1 - 1964 
12 - 2 -1964 


S. O . 491 
S .O . 641 


8 -2 -64 
22 - 2 - 64 


864 


The aforesaid disputes had been referred by the Central Government to the 
adjudication of Mr. Salim M . Merchant, Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Bombay , and the parties hud by their joint application dated the 18th February 
1965 to the said Tribunal asked for permission to withdraw the game and the 
said Tribunal by its Order dated 27th January 1965 granted permission for the 
withdrawal of all the aforesaid disputes. 


( 11) Details of the parties to the dispute including the name and address of the 


( a ) The Associated Cement Companies Limited , Kotma Colliery , P . O . 

Kotma Colliery ; 
(b ) The workmen of Kotma Colliery as represented by the Kotma Colliery 

Mazdoor Sangh , P . O . Kotma Colliery . 


The Kotma Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , P . O . Kotma Colliery . 


(iv ) Total No. of workmen employed in the undertaking affected : 

About 1, 800 . 


(lv) Estimated number of workmen affected or likely to be affected by the dispute : 

About 1,800 . 


We further agree that the decision of the said Arbitrator shall be binding on 
us . 
Witnesses 
1. Sd / - Illegible . 
2. Sd / - Illegible . 
28 . 1.65 . 

Signature of parties 
sd . / - G . L . GOVIL , 
Senior Personnel Officer , 
The Associated Cement Cos. Ltd ., 
Kotma Colliery , 


(Representing Employer ) 
şd . / - K . B . CHOUGULE , 

President, 
Kotma Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , 
(Representing Workmen ) . 


I consent to act as Arbitrator . 


Sd / - F . Jeejeebhoy . 


740 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 /PHALGUNA 1, 1886 (PART II 


ANNEXURE A (COLL ) 

ORDERS 
New Delhi, the 31st January 1964 
S . O . 491. — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the Employers in relation to the Kotma Colliery of Messrs 
Associated Cement Cos . Ltd ., and their workmen in respect of the matters speci 
lled in the schedule hereto alinexed ; 


And whcrcas, the Central Government consider s it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Clause ( d ) of Sub 
Section ( i ) of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under Section 7A of the said Act . 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the Miners employed in Kotma Colliery were required to push 

empty tubs beyond 500 feet ? If so , to what relief are they entitled 
and from what date ? 

A . L . HANDA, Under Secy . 

[ 5 - 2 -64 -LR . II. ] 


New Delhi, the 12th February 1964 
S . O . 641. - - Whereas , the Central Government is of _opinion that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to Kotma Colliery of Messrs 
Associated Cement Companies Limited and their workers in respect of the 
matters specified in the schedule hereto annexed ; 


And whereas , the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication , 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Clause ( a ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Bombay constituted under Section 7A of the said Act. 


3 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the demand of the workers for allowing accumulation and carrying 
forward of sick leave is justified ? If so , to what extent ? 

sd . /- A . L . HANDA , 

Under Secretary . 

[ 5 - 2 -84 -LR .II.] 
[ No. 5 / 4 / 65 - LR . II. ] 


New Delhi, the 15th February 1965 
S . O . 650. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Nandini Lime Stone Mines 
of Bhilai Steel Project and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in 
the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Bombay , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


SEC , 9 ( 11 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : L EBRUARY 20 , 1905 /ÞHALGUNA I, 1886 


741 


- 


SCHEDULE 
1. Whether the workers of Nandini Mechanised Mines of Bhilai Steel Project, 
Post Office Nandini Mines Durg District had achieved the target of production to 
entitle themselves for the payment of 10 % production bonus in the month of 
August, 1964 ? 

2. If so , whether the management was justified in denying the payment thereof 
to the workers ? If not, to what relieť are they entitled ? 

[No. 22/41/ 64 -LR -I. ] 
H . C. MANGHANI, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 15th February 1985 
S . O . 651. - In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Dispute Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
National Industrial Tribunal, New Delhi in the industrial dispute between the Air 
India and their workmen which was received by the Central Government on the 
3rd February 1965 . 
BEFORE THE NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, NEW DELHI 

REFERENCE No. NIT - 1 OF 1964 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to Messrs Air India , Bombay . 

AND 
Their workmen . 


PRESENT : 

Shri G . D . Khosla , Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 
On behalf of Employers : 
Shri S . D . Vimadalal, Bar - at Law , with Shri S . K . Wadla , Solicitor, Shri A . 

S . Banvalikar, Personnel Manager and Shri S . N . Roy Chowdhury , 

Establishment Officer, Air India . 
On behalf of Workmen : 
( i) Shri D . H . Buch , Advocate, with Shri George Clement, Regional Secre 

tary Air Corporations Employees Union , 
( ii ) Shri K . K . Singhvi, Advocate , with Shri K . T. Laxmanan , and Shri P . 

G , Karkhanis , Air India Employees Union . 
( iii ) Shri C . L . Dudhia , Bar -at-Law , with Captain Narendra, General Secre 

tary, Indian Pilots Guild , 
( iv ) Shri P . D . Kamerkar, Advocate , with Shri K . R . N . Swami and Shri A . 

C . Sen , All India Aircraft Engineers Association . 
( v ) Shri P . D . Kamerkai, Advocate, with Shri S . N . Bajpai and Shri L . B . 

Bhatia , Indian Flight Navigators Guild , 
( vi) Shri C . L . Dudhia, Bar -at -Law . with Shri D . H . Dallas, President and 

Shri A . K . Chakravarty , General Secretary , Indian Flight Engineers 

Association . 
INDUSTRY : Alrlines. 

Place : Bombay. 
Dated at Bombay, the 15th January , 1965 

AWARD 


The appointment of this Tribunal was notified by the Central Government, 
Ministry of Labour and Employment, by its notification S . O . 2560 on the 28th 
July 1964 . On the same day by notification S . O . 2561 an industrial dispute bet 
ween the Management of Air India and their workmen was referred to the 
Tribunal for adjudication . The matters in dispute are set out in a schedule 
attached to the Notification and there are in all 57 items of dispute between the 
Management of Air India and their workmen and there is also an item relating 
to the relationship between the wage structure of Air India and the wage 
structure of the Indian Airlines with reference to comparative categories of work 
men performing similar functions. 


742 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 1 , 1886 [ PART 1 ] -- 


2. The parties to these proceedings are : 
Party No. 1 - Air India Corporation , Bombay , to which it will be con 

venient to refer as the Corporation or the Management . 


AND categorie 
nion. Bor 


Their workmen which fall into six categories as follows: 
Party No. 2 - - Air Corporation Employees Union , Bombay . 
Party No. 3 - Air - India Employees Union , Bombay . 
Party No . 4 Indian Pilots Guild , Bombay . 
Party No. 5 - All India Aircraft Engineers Association Bombay . 
Party No. 6 - Indian Flight Navigators Guild , Bombay , and 

Party No. 7 - Indian Flight Engineers Association , Bombay . 
3. An application on behalf of Party No. 3 was made to this Tribunal that the 
demand relating to Interim Relief ( item 57 in the Schedule attached to the 
Reference Order of the Government of India ) may be heard and adjudicated 
immediately . This application was heard at Bombay on the 18th November 1964 
and orders were passed that more material and further details and evidence 
to substantiate the claim should be produced before this item could be adjudicated 
upon by the Tribunal. The parties were directed to file further material as had 
a bearing on the matter and to produce evidence in support thereof. 

4 . An application has now been made by the Air India , namely , Party No . 1 
to these proceedings and the Air Corporations Employees Union , namely , Party 
No . 2 praying that an agreement arrived at between them with regard to interim 
relief ( item No. 57 in the schedule annexed to the order of reference ) should be 
made an award of the Tribunal , Objection is taken to this application of behalf 
of Party No . 3 , namely , the Air India Employees Union . 

5 . The details of the agreement are set out in the copy of the agreement 
annexed hereto . Briefly by this agreement interim relief is sought to be given 
to employees of the Air India drawing a salary of less than 650 / - per menscm . 

6 . Before the present dispute was referred to this Tribunal, the Air India 
gave some interim relief by Staff Notice No. 15 / 64 -65, dated the 1st June 1964. 
The relief then given had retrospective effect from 1st January 1964 . Representa 
tions were made to the management by the Air Corporations Employees Union 
subsequently and the agreement which is now before the Tribunal was arrived 
at and the present relief is proposed to be given with effect from 1st April, 
1964 . 

7 . Before coming to the objections raised on behalf of Party No. 3 , it is neces 
sary to state that interim relief is not a final determination of the salaries and 
wages which are considered adequate for employees of this category . This matter 
is sub -judice and will be finally determined when all the evidence of the parties 
has been taken and Counsel for parties have been hcard . Interim relief in the 
very naturc of things is a temporary relief which is given because some immediate 
relief is considered necessary . Such relief cannot in the very nature of things 
be finally adequate because the adeguacy of relief is the very subject matter of 
inquiry . Another factor which must be noted is that the employees of the Air 
India are stationed at various places in India and the conditions prevailing in 
Bombay cannot be the sole criteria for determining the interim relief to which 
the employees are entitled. Therefore the analogy of employees of other indus 
trial concerns in Bombay will not be very relevant. 

8 . The nature of the relief granted under this agreement may be gauged from 
the following brief table showing the basic salary , the present dearness allowance , 
interim relief under the Staff Notice of Ist June 1964 and the relief now being 
given : 


Basic Salary 


Present Dearness 

Allowance 


Interim Relief under Staff 

Notice of 1 - 6 - 1964 


Present Relief 


IOD 


I20 


LY TOP 


SEC. 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 /PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


743 


It will therefore be seen that in every case the relief now given is substantially 
more than what was given by the Staff Notice of 1st June 1964. The main 
argument raised on behalf of Party No . 3 by Mr. Singhvi who appeared on their 
behalf was that the relief which is now being given is extremely inadequate . 
I may mention here that Party No. 3 was not a party to the agreement although 
the members of this Union are employees drawing salaries under Rs. 650 per 
mensem . Originally there was only one recognised union , namely , Party No. 2 , 
which embraced all employees drawing a salary below Rs. 650. This Union was 
recognised in 1953. Subsequently it appears there was a split among the 
employees in September 1962, and Party No. 3 was formed . I am told , althouglı 
no evidence was produced before me, that the membership of Party No. 2 is in 
the neighbourhood of 2 ,800 whereas the membership of Party No. 3 is considerably 
less, being not more than a thousand . Be that it may the fact remains a large 
majority of workmen affected by this agreement are party to the agreement. 
Mr. Buch who appeared on behalf of Party No . 2 supported the agreement and 
prayed that it be made an award of the Tribunal. 

9 . Mr. Singhvi drew my attention to the case of two other industrial con 
cerns. namely . the Firestone Tyre and Rubber Company Priyate Limited and 
the General Electric Company of India Private Limited . A reference to the 
dearness allowance determined by the Industrial Tribunal at Bombay on 7th 
November 1962 is contained in paragraphs 67 to 69 of the written statement filed 
by Party No. 3 . Briefly speaking, Mr. Singhvi s contention is that the workmen 
of the Firestone Tyre and Rubber Company Private Limited were granted 
dearness allowance at the rate of 125 per cent of the salaries up to Rs. 100. There 
was a further provision that as the index of cost of living rose they would be 
entitled to an increase of 5 per cent of the basic salary for every 10 points . In 
the case of the General Electric Company of India the figures were even higher . 
The dearness allowance was determined at 145 per cent of the basic salary for 
all workmen drawing a salary upto Rs. 100 per mensem and an increase of 5 
per cent was to take effect for every ten -point rise in the cost of living index , I 
have already indicated that the wages fixed for other industrial concerns have 
very little relevance ; also it must be repeated that we are at present considering 
interim relief and not a final determination of the workmen s wages . Even so we 
find that for the lower paid workmen interim relief now glven under the agree 
ment between Air India and Party No. 2 is beiter than the relief given to the 
workmen of the Firestone Tyre and Rubber Company and General Elcctric 
Company. A workman drawing a basic salary of Rs . 50 was entitled to dearness 
allowance to the extent of Rs. 62.50 and an increase of Rs. 25 on account of a 
rise of 100 points in the cost of living index . Thus his total dearness allowance 
came to Rs. 87 . 50 . In the case of an Air - India employee drawing a salary of 
Rs. 50 the dearness allowance under the agreement comes to Rs. 108 . Similarly 
for a person drawing a salary of Rs. 60 in Firestone Tyre and Rubber Company 
would get a dearness allowance of Rs. 105 corresponding to the dearness 
allowance of Rs. 112 given under the agreement under consideration . The deat 
ness willowance payable to the workmen of General Electric Company of India 
is Rs. 97.50 for an employee drawing a salary of Rs. 50 and Rs. 117 for an 
cmployee drawing a salary of Rs. 60 . 

10 . It is , therefore , seen that for the lower paid emnlaynes who need interim 
relief the most the agreement enterd into hetween the Air India and Party No. 2 
is more beneficial than the award given by the Bombay Tribunal to the employees 
nf the Firestone Tyre ond Rubber Company and the General Electric Company . 
I am assuming that the figures with regard to the rise in cost of living given by 
Mr. Singhvi are correct. According to him the cost of living index in May 1960 
was 421 whereas in November 1984 it is 543 . There has , therefore , been an 
increase of 122 points . The Industrial Tribunal at Bombay determined the 
vages in November 1982 when the index of cost of living must have been higher 
than in 1980 . J. therefore, find that if we look upon the benefits given under the 
agreement as nothing more than in the nature of a temporary and interim relief 
it cannot be said to be so wholly inadequate as to warrant rejection by this 
Tribunal. It must be remembered that a very large body of workmen affected 
by this agreement has consented to it and wishes the agreement to be made an 
award of the Tribunal. 

11. Another point raised by Mr. Singhvi was that Air Indin had made a very 
large proft in the year 1963 - 64 and that therefore greater relief to the workinen 
is justiflable . There is no doubt that the financial condition of an industry bears 
relation to the wages of its workmen . But this is a matter which is sub - judice 
and under inquiry , and mercly because the last balance - sheet of the Air India 
Corporation shows a substantial profit there is scarcely justification for giving 
increased interim reliet without regard to other matters which have even greater 
relevance to the question of wages than the profits earned by the Corporation , 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 /PHALGUNA 1, 1886 


(PART II 


12 . Another point urged by Mr. Singhvi was that the agreement should have 
been made effective from 1st January 1964 and not from 1st April 1964. I have 
already pointed out in the earlier part of this award that a substantial relief 
was given to the workmen with effect from 1st January 1964 under the Staff 
Notice of 1st June 1964. The present relief which is slightly higher becomes 


April 1984 is in any way unjust or harsh to the workmen . 

13 . According to the written objections fled by Party No. 3 the mode of appli 
cation of the agreement to temporary employees was unjust. This point was not 
raised before me except in passing and it seems to me that there is nothing 
Invidious or unjust in the provision that the ad hoc increment payable under 
the agreement will also benefit temporary workmen provided they had com 
pleted one year s continuous service on 1st April 1864 . There can be no question 
of earning an increment in the normal way or as an ad hoc increase in salary 
unless the workman has served the management for a year which is the normal 
period for earning an increment. 


14 . I am therefore satisfied that the agreement which is before me provides 
adequate interim relief to workmen drawing salaries upto Rs. 650 p .m , and since 
the majority of the workmen affected by it are party to the agreement and wish it 
to be made effective , I make an award in terms of the agreement and submit it 
to the Government. 
15 . In the circumstances of the case I make no order as to costs. 

G . D . KHOSLA, 
Presiding Officer . 

1. 2 .1965 . 


ANNEXURE 
BEFORE THE NATIONAL TRIBUNAL , NEW DELHI 

(REF . No, NIT - 1 OF 1964 ) 
In the matter of the industrial dispute before the National Tribunal 

between Air India and the workmen as represented by Air Corpora 

tions Employees Union Bombay. 
May it please your Lordship , 

The parties named above respectfully submit as follows: 

By Staff Notice No. 15 / 64 - 65 dated June 1 , 1984, the Management of Air - India 
onnounced the grant of Interim Relief on the scale mentioned in Appendix A 
and the said Relief is being paid to the workmen drawing a basic pay upto 
Rs. 650 per month covered by the above reference with retrospective effect from 
1st January 1964 . 


2 . In view of the representation made to the Management by the Air Corpo 
rations Employees Union , which is a party representing workmen in the above 
said dignute , an agreement has been reached between the Management of Air 
India and the Air Corporations Employees Union that one ad hoc increment 
should be granted to the workmen represented by the said Union , on the following 
conditions : 
(1) Subject to what is stated therein below , one ad hoc increment in the 

existing scale of pay would be granted with effect from 1st April 
1964 to those workmen whose basic pay -scale does not exceed Rs. 650 

per month 
( 11) The said ad hoc increment would be added to the basic pay as on 1st 

April 1964 in the existing grade of those workmen who are in the 
permanent service of the Corporation on the said datę, at the rate at 
which his next immediate increment may be due, but where no such 
increment is due by reason of the fact that a workmen has reached 
the maximum of his pay - scale , the said increment shall be paid to 
him as though it were a secondary increment due within the meaning 

of Regulation 15B of the Air India Employees Service Regulations. 
( ill) The ad hoc increment will also be payable to temporary workmen with 

effect from 1st April . 1964 provided they had completed one year s 
continuous service on that date . In the case of temporary workmen 


Sec. 9( ii) ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20. 1960 / PHALGUNA I, 1886 


745 


- 


in continuous service on 1st January , 1964 , the ad hoc increment will 
be payable to them with effect from the date of confirmation or on 
the completion of one year s service after 1st April 1964 whichever 

is earlier . 
( iv ) In respect of the workmen drawing a basic pay of Rs. 101 – 120 as on 

1st April, 1964 , the interim relief will be Rs, 25 on and from 1st April, 
1964 instead of Rs. 20 + Rs. 10 special allowance sanctioned under 

Staff Notice No. 15 / 84 - 65 dated 1st June, 1984 . 
( v ) It is further agreed that for the purpose of fixation of pay, if any, on 

the basis of the award to be made by the Honourable Tribunal, the 
existing pay of the employees will be taken as the pay which they 
would have drawn but for this agreement i. e . without the addition 

of the ad hoc increment. 
( vi ) Any payment made as an ad hoc increment with accretion of dearness 

allowance thereto would be set off or adjusted against any monetary 
benefit which may be payable under the Award of the Honourable 
Tribunal or recovered in any other manner if no such monetary 

benefits are payable under the Honourable Tribunal s Award . 
3. It is distinctly understood between the parties that the said ad hoc increment 
as above , shall be deemed to be an increase in Interim Relief in settlement of the 
demand made by the Air Corporations Employees Union , under item No. 57 of 
paragraph 1 of the Schedule appended to the Government of India , Ministry of 
Labour & and Employment s Order dated 25th July , 1964, and the aforesaid demand 
of the said Union for Interim Relief shall no longer survive . 

4 . The parties pray for the orders of the Honourable Tribunal on this applica 
tion , which may be passed as an Award on the dispute on item 57 of the Schedule , 

For & on behalf of Air - India Corporation . 
Sd ./ - ( A . S . BANAVALIKER ), 

Personnel Manager. 
For & on behalf of Air Corporations 

Employees Union . 
Sd / - (G , CLEMENT) , 

Regional Secretary , 
WITNESS : 

1 . Sd / - . . .,. . . 

2 . Sd / - . . 
Bombay the 30th December, 1964 . 

APPENDIX A 
Scale of Interim Relief payable under Staff Notice No. 15 / 64 -66 dated 1st June, 
1964 . 


Basic pay 


Quantum of Interim relief 


Rs. 


20 
15 


Rs. 
50 - - 

15 .00 
51 - 120 

20 + 10 
121 – 260 

25 
251 - 350 

351— 650 
NOTE : The interim relief payable to employees in the pay slab of Rs. 51 - - 120 
will be Rs. 20 plus a Special Allowance of Rs. 10 . This Special Allowance will be 
admissible with effect from 1st January , 1964 provided the employee has completed 
one year s service on that date . Those in service on 1st January, 1964 and have 
not completed one year s service will be eligible for this allowance with effect from 
the date of completion of one ycar of service . It will not be payable to those who 
entered service subsequent to 1st January, 1964, 

(No. 17 / 2 / 84 /LRIV. ] 
0 . P . TALWAR , Under Secy . 


746 . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA Í, 1886 (PART 11 – 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 

New Delhi, the 11th February 1965 
$ . 0 , 652, — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Barauni Refinery 
in Bihar State and Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh State pipelines should be laid by the 
Indian Oil Corporation Limited and that for the purpose of laying such pipelines, it 
is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land described in the schedule 
annexed hereto ; 

2 . Now therefore, in cxercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act, 
1962 ( 50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein . 

3 . Any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days from the date of 
this notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the Com 
petent Authority at 7 / 168, Swarupnagar, Kanpur, Every person making such an 
objection shall also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or 
by a legal practitioner . 

SCHEDULE 
State - Uttar Pradesh 

District Allahabad 

Tahsil Şirathu 


Extent 


Village 


Survey 
No . 


Survey 
No. 


Village 


Extent 

в в 


в 


в 


в 


в 


I . Kanwar 


561 


564 


о 
0 


і о 
I 15 


2345 
2349 / 1 
2363 
2454 
2462 / 1 
2470 


o O IO 
O O 10 
O IO 

I 04. Sarho 


293 / 1 
366 / 1 
585 


ΟΙ ΙΟ 


2 . Dhumai 


282 


286 


605 


330 


589 
599 
615 /1 
927 
930 
939 
944 A 
947 


534 


KONRmnnnnnOOOOHO 


535 


ouoooooooooooouooo 


IS 
I 15 
2 0 


IO 


1170 


566 
1172 
1173 


15 . Dondapur 


1265 


200 M 
200 M 
20I 
202 
206A 


T 


TO 


0000000000000000000000000000000000000000 


, 


538 , 


1267 
1269 
1272 
1273 
1307 
1369 / 1 
1372 
1373 
1417 
1419 
1435 
1436 
1442 
1449 


6 . Garai , , 
O 2 10 7 . Kura Muridan 
o 25 


00000000000000000000000000000000000 


odaaooosanGGoGииоовозизоа,oohooo 


144 
150 
166 
184 


597 


то 


615 
621 
630 
636 


NOOOOOOONONNNMoo 


O II 10 


3 . Hisampur Marho 


287 
288 
462 


O O 10 8 . Şirathu 
0 0 5 
о то 


514 


848 
867 
884 / 1 
884 /2 
886 / 1 
886 / 2 
887 
897 


520 
535 / 2 
540 / 1 


о 10 
I 15 


ouuod 


544 


Sec, 3 ( 1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA I 1886 


747 


Village 


Survey No. Extent 

ввв" 


| Village 


Survey No . Extent 

ввв 


8 . Sirathl-~~-conid . 


921 
922 


O O 10 11. Gobindpur Gorio 

so contd . 


381 
391 
392 


946 


І 


о 


395 


Soz 


503 
so7 
so8 


ота 


ооооооооооооооо о;мошшашнюдо 


880654онобобия688овоо 


947 
986 
988 
Tos6 
106I 
1170 
II71 
1356 
1371 
1378 
I.403 
1587 
3294 
3296 
3297 
3301 
3307 
3345 
3357 
336I 
3362 
3365 
338o2 


O IO 
2 0 
4 10 


543 
544 
549 / 1 


OIS 
12 10 
ото 
O IO 


15 


о 


( 31 


633А 
634 


І 15 
І 15 
o15 
І 15 
І 15 

o to 
от о 


635 


641 
642 


338 


3395 


643 
644 
645 


I IO 


3396 


3397 


647 


3399 


651 


3402 
896 


652 


ооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооо 

чооононогооннооноонптн 


668 


тоо 


9. Nagia Mai 


. 


. б.47 


655 


658 


Зооооо6обиообиоло86 


674 


659 


675 


ото 


076 


10 . Siyara Mithepur 


. 


1836 


679 


1894 
2028 
2995 


682 
684 
686 


новнооо 


11. Gobindpur Gorio . 


174 


оо 


693 


182 
217 / 1 
27/2 


оооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооо 


GSoa5c55iso555ло58обліn8Goooo,G58обой 


695 


283 


12. Niwarhiva 


284 
294 


ле 


П 


1372 
1373 
1375 
1377 
t380 

381 
1385 
1387 / 1 

388 
1390 


30 
3II 


32 


1428 


317 
316 
325 


2 10 

10 
IS 


1430 
1432 
[ 435 
1442 
1483 

484 
1486 


II IS 


то 


13 


то 


18 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEB . 20 , 1965 / PHALGUNA I, 1886 (PART II - SEC, 3( 1)] 


Village 


Village 


BBB 


Şurvey No. Extent 

ввв 


12 . Niwarhiya - contd . 


1488/ 1 


0 2 5 13. Tikar Dih - contd . 


1493 


790 
792 
795 
872 


1970 
1573 
1574 
1608 
1616 


873 


026 


931 


1617 


1642 
1644 


1688 


935 
936 
938 
1192 
1193 
1200 
1201 


000000000000OOOOOO 

HYHOUROWNHOHNHHO Ooooowwburnouoooooom 
oo000000 
Nowwwww 


1690 
1692 
1716 


0000000000000000000000000 ONNOWODOOHOOMOOANWNOOWN 
unonõuõunõucãounõoãooooo 


1766 


0 10 14. Sindhiya 


1767 
1777 
1791 
1793/ 2 
1851 
1853 
1854 
1855 

1856 /2 
. . . 752 


105 
120 
122 


13 . Tikar Dih 


31 


[ No. 31 / 50 / 83 - ONG.] 
P . P . GUPTA , Under Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHID BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELMI, 1985 


