REGISTERED No. D . 222 


The Gazette 


of India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


N . 3] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY , JANUARY 15 , 1955 

NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gizettes of India Extraordinay were published upto the 8th January 
1955 : 


Issue 
No. 


No . and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


I 


S . R . O . 50 , dated 
January 1955. 


the 1st Ministry of Exter - French Establishments ( Change 
nal Affairs. 

of Name) Order, 1954 , 


2 


S. R . O . 51 , dated 
January 1955. 


the 18t Ministry of Fin - | Amendmentmade in the noti 

ance (Revenue fication No . 45 (Customs), 
Division ) , 

dated the 23rd October , 
1948 . 


3 


Ditto 


S . R . O . 52 , dated the 3rd 

January 1955. 


Prohibition of import of cer 

tain goods from the French 
Establishment of Pendicherry 
and Karikal. 


4 


S . R . O . 53 , dated 

January 1955 . 


the 4th 


Ministry of Law 


Appointing 15th January 1955 

8A the date on which the 
Wakf Act, 1954 shall come 
into force in certain States . 


S . R . O . 54, dated the 4th 

January 1955 . 


Ministry of Food 
and Agriculture, 


Cancellation of Order No . 

S . R . O . 1905 - B , dated the 
Toth October 1953 . 


5 


S . R . O . 55 , dated the 5th 

January 1955. 


| 


Ministry of Home Chief Commissioners of Ajmer 
Affairs. 

and Coorg to exercise 
powers and discharge func 
tions under the Muslim 
Wakfs Act , 1954 . 


6 


S . R . O . 56 , dated the 6th 

January 1955 . 


Election Coin - ( Not ifying a vacancy to be filled 
| mission , India . beſore the Ioth March 1955 

in the Srivilliputhur Consti 
tuency for the House of the 
People . 


S . R . O . 37 , dated the 6th 

January 1955 . 


Ditto 


Announcing certain dates for 

the byc- election in the 
Srivilliputhur Constituenccy 
in the State of Madras . 


( 77 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 16, 1958 


[PART II — SEC . 8 


Işsue 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


No . 


S . R . O . 109 , dated the 6th Ministry of Infor 
January 1955 

mation and 

Broadcasting. 
S . R . O . 110 , dated the 6th Ditto 

January 1955 . 


Corrigendum to S . R . O . No. 

3650 , dated the 25th Decem 
ber 1954 . 
The Central Government 

certifleg certain filmg to be of 
the description specified 
thеrеіg . 


8 


S . R . O . III , dated the 7th 

January 1955. _ . 


Ministry of Law 


Fixing date and certain hours 

for election in the Srivilli 
puthur Constituency . 


S . R . O . 112 , dated the 8th Ministry of Com - 
January 1955 

merce and 
Industry . 


Ançadment made in the 

Second Schedule to the 
Indian Tariff Act, 1934 . 


Copics of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on indent to the 
Manager of Publications , Civil Lines , Delhi. Indents should be submitted 80 a8 to reach the 
Manager within ten days of the date of issue of this Gazette . 


PART 11 - Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorities 
( other than the Chief Commissioners ) . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 6th January 1955 
S . R . O . 126 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 809 
of the Constitution , read with articles 313 and 372 thereof and para . 19 of the 
Adaptation of Laws Order , 1950 , the President hereby directs that the following 
further amendments shall be made in the Rules published with the notification of 
the Government of India in the late Home Department No . F . 9 - 19 / 30 - Ests ., dated 
the 27th February , 1932 , namely : 

In the Schedule to the said Rules at the end of category ( B ) Posts , under the 
Heading “ Department of Communications" and sub - heading " Indian Posts and 
Telegraphs Department" the following entries shall be added , namely : 
Assistant Complaints 

Director Director A11 Deputy Director 
Officers in the Posts & Telegra of Staff of Staff 

General ( Staff & 
phg Directorate, 

Establishment ) 
Assistant Circle Complaints Director Assistant (1) to Director of Postel 
Officers . of Postal Post Master 

Services of Deputy 
Services General or 

Director of Posts & 
or Deputy Assistant 

Telegraphs or 
Director Director of 

Deputy Director of 
of Posts Postal 

Postal Service . 
& Telegra - Services . 
phs or 
Deputy 
Director of 
Postal 
Services , 

Director of All Head of Circle. 
Postal Services 
Of Deputy 
Director of 
Posts & Telegra 
phs or Deputy 
Director of 
Postal Services . 

[ No. 7 / 2 / 54 - Ests. ( A ) . ] 


PART II- Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


79 


S . R . O . 127 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , read with articles 313 and 372 thereof and paragraph 19 of the 
Adaptation of Laws Order , 1950, the President hereby directs that the following 
further amendment shall be made in the notification of the Government of India 
in the late Home Department No . F .9 / 2 /33 -Ests., dated the 9th January , 1934 , 
namely : 

In the Schedule to the said notifcation , after the entries relating to Indian 
Tariff Board the following heading and entries thereunder shall be inserted , 
namely : - 


Office of the Forward Markets Commission 
Superintendent, 

Chairman , Chairman 
Reporter 

Forward Forward 
Senior Research Assistant Markets Markets 
Deputy Superintendent. J Commission Commission 

[No. 7 / 22 /14 -Este. ( A ) - 1. ] 


All 


S .R . O . 128 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 809 
of the Constitution , read with articles 313 and 372 thereof and paragraph 19 of the 
Adaptation of Laws Order , 1950, the President hereby directs that the following 
further amendment shall be made in the rules published with the notification of 
the Government of India in the late Home Department No, F . 9 - 19 / 30 - Ests ., dated 
the 27th February, 1932 , namely : 

In the Schedule to the said rules , under the heading " Commerce Department" , 
the following sub -heading and entries thereunder shall be inserted , namely : 


Office of the Forward Markets Commission 
Class III posis 
Junior Research Assistant 

Chairman , Chairman , All 
Upper Division Clerk 

Forward 

Forward 
Caghier 

Markets 

Markets 
P . A . to Chairman 

Commission Commission 
P . A . to Member 
Stenographer 
Lower Division Clerk 
Computor 
Comptißt . 


Secretary , 
Ministry of 
Commerce 
and Industry . 


Class IV posts 


All 


Gestetner Operator 
Tamadar 
Daftry 
Pcons 
Chowkidar 
Hamal 
Sweeper 


Secretary , 
Forward 
Markets 
Commission 


Secretary , 
Forward 
Markets 
Commission 


Chairman , 
Forward 
Markets 
Commission . 


[No. 7 / 22 / 54- Ists . ( A ) - 11. ] 
S . P . MAHNA, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 8th January 1955 


S . R . O . 129 ,- In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 4 , 10 , 17 and 27 
of the Indian Arms Act, 1878 (XI of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby 
directs that the following further amendments shall be made in the Indian Arms 
Rules , 1951, namely : 

In the Table in Schedule III to the said Rules 
(a ) After column 1 the following column shall be added namely : 

" Provisos and restrictions " 
( b ) The existing column 2 shall be re -numbered as “ g ” . 


80 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 16 , 1955 


[PART II - SEC. 8 


(c ) After item ( 2 ) the following item shall be added , namely : 


" 3 ) . Arms and ammunition specified Such arms and ammunition shall not do ." 

in clause (a ) (1) - ( iii) of rule 7 bo transferred to any one in India 
imported by diplomatic personnel for consideration or otherwise . 
and home baged personnel of 
Foreign and Commonwealth Dip 
lomatic Mlosion in India , 


[No. 9 /63 /B4 - Police ( I) .] 
N . SAHGAL , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 
New Delhi, the 4th January 1955 


8 . R . O . 180. — In pursuance of clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 8 of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1994 (II of 1934 ) , and in supersession of the notifi 
cation of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance , Department of 
Economic Affairs , No. F .3 ( 28 ) - F .I. /54, dated the 18th August 1954, the Central 
Government hereby nominates Shri H . M . Patel, I. C . S ., to be a director of the 
Central Board of the Reserve Bank of India , vice Shri S . G . Barve, I. C . S . 

[No. F .3 ( 26 ) - F .I./54 .] 


New Delhi, the 8th January 1956 


S . R . O . 131 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( c ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 8 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 ( II of 1934 ) , the Central 
Government hereby nominates with effect from the 15th January 1955 , Prof. 
Gorakhnath Sinha, B . A . (Cantab ) , Chairman , Rural Farm Enquiry Commission , 
Bihar , and Shri D . N . Mitra , 2 - Hungerford Street , Calcutta , as Directors of the 
Central Board of the Reserve Bank of India , vice Shri Dhirendra Nath Sen and Sahu 
Jagdish Prasad . 

[No. F . 3 ( 65 ) - F .1./54 .] 


N . C . SEN GUPTA , Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 


CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 


New Delhi, the 5th January 1955 


S . R . O . 182 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (2A ) of gec 
tion 144 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (VII of 1913 ) , the Central Govern - ( 
ment hereby directs that the following amendment shall be made in the Res 
tricted Auditors Certificates (Part B States ) Rules , 1951, namely : - 

In the said Rules 


(Part B " Statemendmentshan , thetop (24 ) o 


After rule 12 the following rule shall be added , namely ; -- 
" 13 . The procedure prescribed by rule 12 shall, so far as may be, apply 

to any information received regarding any act of negligence, mis 
conduct or dishonesty or any breach of professional propriety referred 
to in clause ( e ) of sub - rule ( 1 ) of Rule 10 of these Rules ." 

[No. 61 ( 11) - ICA / 54.] 
P . D . KASBEKAR , Dy. Secy . 


PART 11 - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 10 , 1955 


81 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION ) 


CUSTOMS 


New Delhi, the 6th January 1955 


S . R . O . 133. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the Sea Cus 
toms Act, 1878 ( VIII of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby prohibits the 
bringing of rock salt from Nepal into India . 

[No. 5 . ) 


W . SALDANHA , Dy. Secy . 


CUSTOMS 


New Delhi, the 8th January 1955 


S . R . O . 134 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by gection 49 of the Sea 
Customs Act , 1878 (VIII of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby rescinds the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Revenue 
Division ) No . 24 -Customs, dated the 29th March , 1949 . 

[ No. 7.] 


E . S . KRISHNAMOORTHY, Joint Secy . 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 8th January 1955 
8 . R . O . 185 . - In pursuance of section 83 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( VIII of 
1878 ) , as applied to the French Establishments in India , the Central Board of 
Revenue hereby appoints in respect of the ports in the said Establishments , the 
number of days hereinafter specifled as the number of working days after the 
entry of a vessel importing any goods within which at the said ports and in the 
cases so specified , the owner of any goods imported by such vessel (not being 
goods shown in the Import-manifest as not to be landed or goods for the landing 
of which a period is specified in the bill of lading thereof) shall land the game, 
namely 

(i) In the case of a sailing ship - - Three days. 
. ( ii) In the case of a steamer - Two days . 

[No. 8 . ] 
W . SALDANHA , Secy . 


INCOME TAX 

New Delhi, the 10th January 1955 
S . R . O . 136 . — In pursuance of sub - section ( 4 ) of section 5 of the Indian Income 
tax Act. 1922 (XI of 1922 ) , the Central Board of Revenue directs that the 
following further amendments shall be made in the Schedule appended to its 
notification No. 32 - Income-tax , dated the 9th November 1946 , namely :- - 

In the said Schedule under the sub -head “ VII - Delhi, Ajmer, Rajasthan and 
Madhya Bharat" against C - Range , Delhi, 

( 1) for " ( 8 ) Bharatpur" substitute “ (8 ) All Wards at Bharatpur " ; and - 
(1 ) for " ( 10 ) Bikaner " substitute “ ( 10 ) All Wards at Bikaner." 

[No. 2 (50 / 29 / 64 - IT - 1 ). ] 
S .R . O . 187 . - In pursuance of sub - section ( 6 ) of section 5 of the Indian Income 
tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922 ) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


[ PART II — Sec . 3 


the following further amendments shall be made in the Schedule appended to 
Its notification S . R . O . 1214 (No. 44 - Income- tax ) , dated the 1st July 1954, namely : 

In the said schedule after Serial No. 43 , the following items shall be inserted , 
namely : 


3 


5 


43 - A 


Employees of Income- tax Inspecting Appcllate Assistant Commissioner 

MessІВ , New Officer , Dist . Assistant Commissioner , of Incomc 
Egerton Mills III (v ), Kan - Commissioner, Range I, Kan tax , Uttar 
Branch at Dhari- pur. 

Kanpur. pur. 

Pradesh And 
wal stationed any 

Vindhya Pra 
where in the tex 

desh , Luck 
able territories, 

now . 
Employees of 
Mcgory . Begg Suth 
erland & Co . Ltd ., 
Kanpur, stationed 
anywhere in the 
taxable territorio . do . 

do . 

do . 

do . 


43 - B 


[ No. 1.(58 /62 /53-I. T.-1).] 
New Delhi, the 11th January 1955 
S . R . O . 188 . — In pursuance of sub -section ( 2 ) of section of the Indian Income 
tax Act , 1922 (XI of 1922) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that 
the following amendment shall be made in the Schedule to its notification 
S .R .O . 17 (No. 75 -Income- tax , dated the 21st December 1954 ) , namely : 

In the said schedule after entry 15 , the following entry shall be added , 
namely : 
" 16. Order No. 27 – No . 55 (53 ) I. T. /54, dated the 17th September, 1954." 

[No. 3. (55 / 101 / 64 -I. T.- 2 ). ] 


CORRIGENDUM 

INCOME -TAX 

New Delhi, the 11th January 1955 
S . R . O . 139 . — In the Schedule to the notification of the Central Board of 
Revenue S . R . O . 17 (No. 75 - Income- tax , dated the 21st December 1954 ) published 
in Part II , Section 3 of the Gazette of India , dated the 1st January 1955 against 
item 10 % 
for " 58 ( 20 ) - I. T . / 84 " read “ 55 ( 16 ) - I. T ./ 54" . 

[No. 18 (55 / 101/ 54 -I. T.- 1 ). ] 

K . B . DEB , Under Secy . 
MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 10th January 1955 
S .R . O . 140 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( I) of Section 
3 of the Indian Emigration Act ( No . VII of 1922) the President was pleased to 
appoint Shri Tarlok Singh , Personal Assistant in the office of the Protector of 
Emigrants, Bombay, to officiate as Protector of Emigrants , Bombay , with effect 
from the forenoon of the 1st November , 1954, vice Shri R . B , Ghatge granted leave. 

Shri Tarlok Singh reverted to the post of Personal Assistant with effect from 
the forenoon of the 1st December , 1964. 

[No . F .1 - 5 / 54 - Emi.] 

S . D , PATHAK , 
for Controller General of Emigration . 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


83 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 4th January 1955 
S . R . O . 141 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by şub - rule (2 ) of rule 3 
of the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules 1951 read with section 3 of the Cinema 
tograph Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952 ) the Central Government hereby re - appoints 
Professor R . D . Şinha Dinkar and Sri V . Shantaram , as members of the Central 
Board of Film Consors with effcct from 15th January 1955 . 

[No. 11 / 6 / 54 -FC .] 
D . KRISHNA AYYAR, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 

( Transport Wing ) 

LIGHT HOUSES 

New Delhi, the 6th Junuary 1955 
8 .R . O . 142 . — In pursuance of clause ( c ) of section 2 of the Indian Lighthouse 
Act, 1927 (XVII of 1927) , the Central Government hereby declares the lighthouse 
at Tolkeshwar to be a general lighthouse for the purposes of the said Act . 

[No. 10 -MT(5 ) /53.] 


( Transport Wing ) 

MERCHANT SHIPPING 

New Delhi, the 11th January 1955 
S . R . O . 143. - With reference to sections 214 , 215 and 216 of the Indian Mer 
chant Shipping Act, 1923 ( XXI of 1923) and to the provisions of the Merchant 
Shipping Acts 1894 to 1938 which operate as part of the law of India , the Collision 
Regulations ( Ships and Seaplanes on the Water ) and Signals of Distress (Ships ) 
Order . 1953, being an Order made by Her Britannic Majesty in Council, is hereby 
published for general information . 

1953 No. 1557 
MERCHANT SHIPPING - CIVIL AVIATION SAFETY 
The Collision Regulations ( Ships and Seaplanes on the Water ) and Signals of 

Distress ( Ships ) Order , 1953 
Made28th October , 1953 . 
Laid before Parliament.-- 29th October , 1953 . 
Coming Into Operation . — 1st January , 1954 . 
At the Court at Buckingham Palace, the 28th day of October , 1953 . 

PRESENT 
The Queen s Most Excellent Majesty in Council 
Whereas the International Conference on Safety of Life at Sea, held in London 
from 23rd April, 1948 to 10th June , 1948 approved the International Regulations 
for Preventing Collisions at Sea, 1948, set forth in the First Schedule to this Order, 
and invited the Government of the United Kingdom , when substantial unanimity 
had been reached as to the acceptance of the said Regulations to fix the date 
on and after which the said Regulations should be applied by the Governments 
which had agreed to accept them and to give not less than one year s notice 
of that date to the Governments of all States : 

And Whereas substantial unanimity has been reached as aforesaid and the 
Governments of the countries specified in the Second Schedule to this Order have 
agreed to accept the said Regulations : 

And Whereas the Government of the United Kingdom have fixed the 1st Janu 
ary , 1954 , as the date on and after which the said Regulations shall be applied 
by the Governments which have agreed to accept them and have given duc notice 
thereof to the Governments of all States; 


84 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 18 , 1952 


[ PART II — Sec. 3 


And Whereas by Section 418 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894 ( a ), (in this 
Order referred to as " the principal Act " ) Her Majesty is empowered on the joint 
recommendation of the Admiralty and the Minister of Transport and Civil 
Aviation ( in this Order referred to as " the Minister" ) by Order in Council to 
make regulations for preventing collisions at sea, in the principal Act referred 
to as Collision Regulations: 

And Whereas by Section 424 of the principal Act it is provided that whenever 
it is made to appear to Her Majesty in Council that the Government of any 
foreign country is willing that the Collision Regulations should apply to the 
ships of that couotry when beyond the limits of British jurisdiction , Her Majesty 
may by Order in Council direct that those Regulations shall, subject to any limi 
tation of time, conditions and qualifications contained in the Order , apply to the 
ships of such foreign country , whether within British jurisdiction or not, and 
that such ships shall for the purposes of such Regulations be treated as if they 
were British ships : 

And Whereas it is provided by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 52 of the Civil Avia 
tion Act, 1949 ( b ) , that the said power of Her Majesty to make regulations for 
the prevention of collisions at sea shall include power to make regulations on 
the joint recommendation of the Admiralty, the Secretary of State and the 
Minister for the prevention of collisions at sea between seaplanes on the surface 
of the water and between vessels and seaplanes on the surface of the water , 
and that accordingly Section 424 ( among other provisions) of the principal Act 
shall, subject to the exceptions specified in the said Section 52 , apply in rel 
tion to seaplanes on the surface of the water as it applies in relation to ships or 
vessels : 


And Whereas the joint recommendations aforesaid have been respectively made 
to Her Majesty : 


And Whereas sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 59 of the Civil Aviation Act, 1949, 
makes provision for the extension by Order in Council of the extra - territorial 
operation of the collision regulations made by virtue of the said Section 52 to 
British aircraft registered in any country or territory mentioned in sub - section 
( 1 ) of Section 66 of the said Act or registered in the Isle of Man or the Channel 
Islands: 


And Whereas by the Civil Aviation Art ( Isle of Man ) Order , 1952 ( c ) , made 
under sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 67 of the Civil Aviation Act , 1949 , the provisions 
of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 52 and of sub -section ( 2 ) of Section 59 of the said 
Act were extended to the Isle of Man , and by the Civil Aviation Act ( Channel 
Islands ) Order , 1953 ( d ) , so made the said provisions were extended to the Channel 
Islands : 


And Whereas certain Orders in Council made under the Air Navigation Act , 
1947 ( e ) . and the Civil Aviation Act , 1949, contain provisions for the prevention 
of collisions involving aircraft on the water , which said provisions are respec 
tively specified in Part II of the Third Schedule to this Order : 


And Whereas by sub -section ( 1) of Section 21 of the Merchant Shipping 
( Safety Convention ) Act , 1949 ( 1 ) , Her Majesty In Council is empowered to pres 
cribe what signals shall be used by ships as signals of distress : 


And Whereas by Section 734 of the principal Act it is provided that where 
It has been made to appear to Her Majesty that the Government of any foreign 
country is desirous that any of the provisions of that Act which do not apply 
to the ships of that country, should so apply , and there are no special provisions 
in the Act for that application , Her Majesty in Council may order that such of 
those provisions as are in the Order specified shall (subject to the limitations, 
if any , contained therein ) apply to the ships of that country , and to the owners , 
masters, seamen , and apprentices of those ships, when not locally within the 


( a ) 57 and 58 Vict. C , 60 . 
( b ) 12 , 13 and 14 Geo . 6 . c. 67 . 
( c ) S . J. 1952 / 1032 ; 1952 I, p . 561 . 
( d ) S . I. 1953 / 393 . 
( e ) 10 and 11 Geo . 6 .c . 18 . 
( 1) 12, 13 and 14 Geo . 6 .c . 43 . 


PART 11 - SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


jurisdiction of the government of that country , in the same manner in all res 
pects as if those ships were British ships : 


And Whereas Section 21 of the Merchant Shipping (Safety Convention ) Act, 
1949 , relating to signals of distress is such a provişion : 


And Whereas by Section 738 of the principal Act it is provided that, where 
Her Majesty has power under that Act, or any Act amending the same, to make 
an Order in Council , Her Majesty may from time to time make that Order in 
Council, and by Order in Council revoke, alter or add to any Order 80 made : 


And Whereas it has been made to appear to Her Majesty that the Governments 
of the several foreign countries which are included in the countries specifed 
in the Second Schedule to this Order are willing that the Regulations set forth 
in the First Schedule hereto shall apply to the ships of the said foreign coun 
tries when beyond the limits of British jurisdiction : 


Now , therefore , Her Majesty , in pursuance of the aforesaid powers and of 
all other powers enabling Her in that behalf, is pleased , by and with the advice 
of Her Privy Council , to order and direct , and it is hereby ordered and directed , 
as follows: 
1. - ( 1 ) This Order may be cited as the Collision Regulations (Ships and 

Seaplanes on the Water ) and Signals of Distress (Ships) Order , 1953. 
( 2 ) The Interpretation Act, 1889 ( g ), shall apply to the interpretation of 

this Order as it applies to the interpretation of an Act of Parliament. 
( 3 ) The Orders in Council specified in the Third Schedule to this Order 

are hereby revoked to the extent specified in that Schedule. 
( 4 ) The Order shall come into operation on the first day of January , 

1954 . 


2 . The International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea set forth in 
the First Schedule to this Order shall, with tne exception of Rule 31 thereof, 
constitute the Collision Regulations referred to in the principal Act and in that 
Act as applied by the Civil Aviation Act, 1949, and by the said Act of 1949 As 
extended as aforesaid to the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands, and are here 
inafter referred to as the Collision Regulations. 


3. The Collision Regulations shall apply to British seaplanes on the surface 
of the water which are registered in any country or territory mentioned in gub 
section ( 1 ) of Section 66 of the Civil Aviation Act, 1949 , or in the Isle of Man 
or the Channel Islands , wherever such seaplanes may be. 


4 . The Collision Regulations shall apply to all ships and to all seaplanes on 
the surface of the water which are ships or seaplanes of the foreign countries 
included in the countries specified in the Second Schedule to this Order , whether 
such ships and seaplanes are within British Jurisdiction or not, and such ships 
and seaplanes shall , for the purposes of the Collision Regulations, be treated as if 
they were British ships and British seaplanes respectively . 


5 . The signals specified in Rule 31 of the aforesaid International Regulations 
for Preventing Collisions at Sea and in the Note appended to that Rule shall be the 
signals referred to in Section 21 of the Merchant Shipping ( Safety Convention ) 
Act , 1949 , which are to be used by ships as signals of distress and the provi 
sions of the said Section 21 shall apply to ships of the foreign countries included 
in the countries specified in the Second Schedule to this Order , whether such 
ships are within British Jurisdiction or not. 


6 . Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this Order shall be taken to autho 
rise the prosecution of the master or owner of a foreign ship or the pilot or 
owner of a foreign seaplane for any offence consisting only of an act or omission 
outside British jurisdiction . 


W . G . AGNEW . 


( g ) 52 & 53 Vict . c. 63. 


86 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 18 , 1955 


[PART II — Sec. 3 


FIRST SCHEDULE 
International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea , 1948 
PART A . - PRELIMINARY AND DEFINITIONS 

Rule 1 
( a ) These Rules shall be followed by all vessels and seaplanes upon the high 
seas and in all waters connected therewith navigable by seagoing vessels , except 
as provided in Rule 30 . Where , as a result of their special construction , it is not 
possible for seaplanes to comply fully with the provisions of Rules specifying 
the carrying of lights and shapes , these provisions shall be followed as closely as 
circumstances permit . 

(b ) The Rules concerning lights shall be complied with in all weathers from 
sunset to sunrise , and during such times no other lights shall be exhibited , except 
such lights as cannot be mistaken for the prescribed lights or impair their visibility 
or distinctive character , or interfere with the keeping of a proper look -out. 
( c ) In the following Rules , except where the context otherwise requires : 
( 1 ) the word " vessel" includes every description of water craft , other than 

a seaplane on the water , used or capable of being used as a means 

of transportation on water ; 
(ii ) the word " seaplane ” includes a flying boat and any other aircraft 

designed to manoeuvre on the water ; 
( 11) the term " power - driven vessel" means any vessel propelled by 

machinery ; 
( iv ) every power - driven vessel which is under sail and not under power 

is to be considered a sailing vessel, and every vessel under power , 

whether under sail or not, is to be considered a power - driven vessel; 
( y ) a vessel or seaplane on the water is " under way " when she is not at 

anchor , or made fast to the shore, or aground ; 
( yl) the term " height above the hull” means height above the uppermost 

continuous deck ; 
( vii) the length and breadth of a vessel shall be deemed to be the length 

and breadth appearing in her certificate of registry ; 
(vili ) the length and span of a seaplane shall be its maximum length and 

span as shown in its certificate of airworthiness , or as determined 

by measurement in the absence of such certificate ; 
( 1x ) the word " visible ," when applied to lights , means visible on a dark 

night with a clear atmosphere; 
( x ) the term " short blast” means a blast of about one second s duration ; 
( xl) the term " prolonged blast" means a blast of from four to six seconds 

duration ; 
( xii ) the word " whistle" means whistle or siren ; 
(xill ) the word " tons" means gross tons. 


PART B . LIGHTS AND SHAPES 

Rule 2 
(a ) A power - driven vessel when under way shall carry : 
( 1 ) On or in front of the foremast , or if a vessel without a foremast then 

in the forepart of the vessel, a bright white light so constructed as 
to show an unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of 20 points 
of the compass (225 degrees ) , so fixed as to show the light 10 points 
( 1127 degrees ) on each side of the vessel, that is, from right ahead 
to 2 points ( 22 ) degrees ) abaft the beam on elther side, and of such 

a character as to be visible at a distance of at least 5 miles . 
( ii ) Either forward of or abaft the white light mentioned in sub - section ( 1 ) 

a second white light similar in construction and character to that 
light. Vessels of less than 150 feet in length , and vessels engaged 
in towing , shall not be required to carry this second white light but 

may do so . 
(H1) These two white lights shall be so placed in a line with and over the 

keel that one shall be at least 15 feet higher than the other and in 


PART II - Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


87 


such a position that the lower light shall be forward of the upper 
one. The horizontal distance between the two white lights shall be 
at least three times the vertical distance. The lower of these two 
white lights or, if only one is carried , then that light, shall be placed 
at a height above the hull of not less than 20 feet, and , if the breadth 
of the vessel exceeds 20 feet , then at a height above the hull not less 
than guch breadth , so however that the light need not be placed at 
a greater height above the hull than 40 feet. In all circumstances 
the light or lights , as the case may be, shall be so placed as to be 

clear of and above all other lights and obstructing superstructures . 
(iv ) On the starboard side a green light go constructed as to show an 

unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of 10 points of the compass 
( 1121 degrees ) , so fixed as to show the light from right ahead to 
2 points ( 22 ) degrees ) abaft the beam on the starboard side, and of 

such a character as to be visible at a distance of at least 2 miles. 
( v ) On the port side a red light so constructed as to show an unbroken 

light over an arc of the horizon of 10 points of the compass ( 112 ) 
degrees ) , so fixed as to show the light from right ahead to 2 points 
(221 degrees ) abaft the beam on the port side, and of such a character 

as to be visible at a distance of at least 2 miles . 
(vi) The said green and red sidelights shall be Atted with inboard screens 

projecting at least 3 feet forward from the light, so as to prevent 

these lights from being seen across the bows. 
(b ) A seaplane under way on the water shall carry : 
( i) In the forepart amidships where it can best be seen a bright white 

light, so constructed as to show an unbroken light over an arc of 
the horizon of 220 degrees of the compass , so fixed as to show the 
light 110 degrees on each side of the seaplane, namely , from right 
ahead to 20 degrees abaft the beam on elther side, and of such a 

character as to be visible at a distance of at least 9 miles . 
( 11) On the right or starboard wing tip a green light, so constructed as to 

show an unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of 110 degrees 
of the compass, so fxed as to show the light from right ahead to 
20 degrees abaft the beam on the starboard side, and of such a 

character as to be visible at a distance of at least 2 miles . 
(iii ) On the left or port wing tip a red light, so constructed as to show an 

unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of 110 degrees of the 
compass , so ixed as to show the light from right ahead to 20 degrees 
abaſt the beam on the port side, and of such a character as to be 
visible at a distance of at least 2 miles . 


Rule 3 
( a ) A power - driven vessel when towing or pushing another vessel or seaplane 
shall, in addition to her sidelights , carry two bright white lights in a vertical 
line one over the other, not less than 6 feet apart, and when towing more than 
one vessel shall carry an additional bright white light 6 feet above or below 
such lights , 1f the length of the tow , measuring from the stern of the towing 
vessel to the stern of the last vessel or seaplane towed , exceeds 600 feet . Each 
of these lights shall be of the same construction and character and one of them 
shall be carried in the same position as the white light mentioned in Rule 2 ( a ) (i ) , 
except the additional light, which shall be carried at a height of not less than 
14 feet above the hull. In a vessel with a single mast , such lights may be carried 
on the mast. 

( b ) The towing vegsel shall also show either the stern light specified in Rule 10 
or in lieu of that ught a small white light abaft the funnel or aftermast for the 
tow to steer by , but such light shall not be visible forward of the beam . The 
carriage of the white light specifed in Rule 2 ( a ) ( ii ) is optional. 

( c ) A seaplane on the water , when towing one or more seaplanes or vessels , 
shall carry the lights prescribed in Rüle 2 ( b ) ( i ) , ( ii ) and ( 111 ) : and , in addition , 
she shall carry a second white light of the same construction and character as 
the white light mentioned in Rule 2 ( b ) ( 1) , and in a vertical line at least 6 feet 
above or below such light. 

Rule 4 
( a ) A vessel which is not under command shall carry , where they can best be 
seen , and , if a power -driven vessel, in lieu of the lights required by Rule 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 16 , 1955 


[ PART II - Sec . 3 


2 ( a ) ( i ) and ( ii ), two red lights in a vertical line one over the other not less 
than 6 feet apart, and of such a character as to be visible all round the horizon 
at a distance of at least 2 miles . By day , she shall carry in a vertical line one 
over the other not less than 6 feet apart, where they can best be seen , two 
black balls or shapes each not less than 2 feet in diameter . 

(b ) A seaplane on the water which is not under command may carry , where 
they can best be seen , two red lights in a vertical line, one over the other , not 
less than 3 feet apart , and of such a character as to be visible all round the 
horizon at a distance of at least 2 miles , and may by day carry in a vertical line 
one over the other not less than 3 feet apart , where they can best be seen , two 
black balls or shapes , each not less than 2 feet in diameter . 

( c ) A vessel engaged in laying or in picking up a submarine cable or naviga 
tion mark , or a vessel engaged in surveying or underwater operations when 
from the nature of her work she is unable to get out of the way of approaching 
vessels , shall carry , in lieu of the lights specified in Rule 2 ( a ) ( 1) and ( ii) , three 
lights in a vertical line one over the other not less than 6 feet apart . The highest 
and lowest of these lights shall be red , and the middle light shall be white , and 
they shall be of such a character as to be visible all round the horizon at a 
distance of at least 2 miles . By day , she shall carry in a vertical line one over 
the other not less than 6 feet apart, where they can best be seen , three shapes 
each not less than 2 feet in diameter , of which the highest and lowest shall be 
globular in shape and red in colour, and the middle one diamond in shape and 
white . 

( d ) The vessels and seaplanes referred to in this Rule , when not makin 
way through the water , shall not carry the coloured sidelights, but when making 
way they shall carry them . 

( e ) The lights and shapes required to be shown by this Rule are to be taken 
by other vessels and seaplanes as signals that the vessel or seaplane showing 
them is not under command and cannot therefore get out of the way . 

(f ) These signals are not signals of vessels in distress and requiring assistance, 
Such signals are contained in Rule 31 . 


Rule 6 
( a ) A sailing vessel under way and any vessel or Seaplane being towed 
shall carry the same lights as are prescribed by Rule 2 for a power -driven vessel 
or a seaplane under way, respectively , with the exception of the white ughts 
specified therein , which they shall never carry . They shall also carry stern 
lights as specified in Rule 10 , provided that vessels towed , except the last vessel 
of a tow , may carry , in lieu of such stern light, a small white light as specified 
in Rule 3 ( b ) . 

(b ) A vessel being pushed ahead shall carry , at the forward end , on the star 
board side a green light and on the port side a red light, which shall have the 
same characteristics as the lights described in Rule 2 ( a ) ( iv ) and ( v ) and shall 
be screened as provided in Rule 2 ( a ) ( vi ) , provided that any number of vessels 
pushed ahead in a group shall be lighted as one veggel. 


Rule 6 
( a ) In small vessels , when it is not possible on account of bad weather or 
other sufficient cause to fix the green and red sidelights , these lights shall be 
kept at hand lighted and ready for immediate use , and shall, on the approach of 
or to other vessels, be exhibited on their respective sides in sufficient time to 
prevent collision , in such manner as to make them most visible , and so that the 
green light shall not be seen on the port side por the red light on the starboard 
side, nor if practicable , more than 2 points ( 22 ) degrees ) abaft the beam on 
their respective sides. 

( b ) To make the use of these portable lights more certain and easy , the 
lanterns containing them shall each be painted outside with the colour of the 
lights they respectively contain , and shall be provided with proper screens . 


Rule 7 


Power- driven vessels of less than 40 tons, vessels under oars or sails of less 
than 20 tons, and rowing boats , when under way shall not be required to carry 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


the lights mentioned in Rule 2 , but if they do not carry them they shall be 
provided with the following lights :- - 

( a ) Power -driven vessels of less than 40 tons, except as provided in section 
( b ) , shall carry : 
( i ) In the forepart of the vessel, where it can best be seen , and at a height 

above the gunwale of not less than 9 feet , a bright white light 
constructed and fixed as prescribed in Rule 2 ( a ) ( i) and of such a 

character as to be visible at a distance of at least 3 miles . 
( 11 ) Green and red sidelights constructed and fixed as prescribed in Rule 

2 ( a ) ( iv ) and ( v ) , and of such a character as to be visible at a 
distance of at least 1 mile , or a combined lantern showing a green 
light and a red light from right ahead to 2 points (22 . degrees ) 
abaft the beam on their respective sides. Such lantern shall be 

carried not less than 3 feet below the white light. 
( b ) Small power - driven boats , such as are carried by seagoing vessels , may 
carry the white light at a less height than 9 feet above the gunwale , but it shall 
be carried above the sidelights or the combined lantern mentioned in sub 
section ( a ) ( 11) , 

( c ) Vessels of less than 20 tons , under oars or sails , except as provided in 
lection ( d ) , shall , if they do not carry the sidelights, carry where it can best be 
seen a lantern showing a green light on one side and a red light on the other , 
of such a character as to be visible at a distance of at least 1 mile , and so fixed 
that the green light shall not be seen on the port side, nor the red light on the 
starboard side. Where it is not possible to fix this light, it shall be kept ready 
for immediate use and shall be exhibited in sufficient time to prevent collision 
and So that the green light shall not be seen on the port side nor the red light 
on the starboard side. 

(a ) Small rowing boats , whether under oars or gails, shall only be required 
to have ready at hand an electric torch or a lighted lantern showing a white 
light, which shall be exhibited in sufficient time to prevent collision . 

( e ) The vessels and boats referred to in this Rule shall not be required to 
carry the lights or shapes prescribed in Rules 4 ( a ) and 11 ( e ) . 


Rule 8 


( a ) ( 1) Sailing pilot - vessels , when engaged on their station on pilotage duty 
and not at anchor, shall not show the lights prescribed for other vessels, but 
shall carry a white light at the masthead visible all round the horizon at a 
distance of at least 3 miles , and shall also exhibit a flare -up light or flare -up 
lights at short intervals , which shall neyer exceed 10 minutes . 

( ii) On the near approach of or to other vessels they shall have their side 
lights lighted ready for use and shall flash or show them at short intervals , to 
indicate the direction in which they are heading, but the green light shall not be 
shown on the port side, nor the red light on the starboard side. 

( iii) A sailing pilot- vessel of such a class as to be obliged to go alongside 
of a vessel to put a pilot on board may show the white light instead of carrying 
it at the masthead and may , instead of the sidelights abovementioned , have 
at hand ready for use a lantern with a green glass on the one side and a red 
glass on the other to be used as prescribed above . 

(b ) A power -driven pllot -vessel when engaged on her station on pilotage duty 
and not at anchor shall, in addition to the lights and flares required for salling 
pilot -vessels, carry at a distance of 8 feet below her white masthead light a red 
Tight visible all round the horizon at a distance of at least 3 miles, and also the 
sidelights required to be carried by vessels when under way . A bright intermit 
tent all round white light may be used in place of a flare . 

( c ) All pilot- vessels , when engaged on their stations on pilotage duty and at 
anchor , shall carry the lights and show the flares prescribed in sections ( a ) and ( b ) , 
except that the sidelights shall not be shown . They shall also carry the anchor 
light or lights prescribed in Rule 11 , 

( d ) All pilot-vessels , whether at anchor or not at anchor, shall, when not engaged 
on their stations on pilotage duty , carry the same lights as other vessels of their 
class and tonnage . 


90 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 [ PART II — Sec. 3 
= 

Rule 9 
(a ) Fishing vessels when not fishing shall show the lights or shapes prescribed 
for similar vessels of their tonnage. When Ashing they shall show only the lights 
or shapes prescribed by this Rule , which lights or shapes , except as otherwise 
provided , shall be visible at a distance of at least 2 miles . 

( b ) Vessels fishing with trolling ( towing ) lines, shall show only the lights pres 
cribed for a power - driven or sailing vessel under way as may be appropriate . 

( c ) Vessels Ashing with nets or lines, except trolling ( towing ) Ines , extending 
from the vessel not more than 500 feet horizontally into the seaway shall show , 
where it can best be seen , one all round white light and in addition , on approaching 
or being approached by another vessel, shall show a second white light at least 6 
feet below the Arst light and at a horizontal distance of at least 10 feet away from 
it ( 6 feet in small open boats ) in the direction in which the outlying gear is attach 
ed . By day such vessels shall indicate their occupation by displaying a basket 
where it can best be seen ; and if they have their gear out while at anchor , they 
shall, on the approach of other vessels , show the same signal in the direction from 
the anchor ball towards the net or gear . 

( d ) Vessels fishing with nets or lines , except trolling (towing ) lines, extending 
from the vessel more than 500 feet horizontally into the seaway shall show , where 
they can best be seen , three white lights at least 3 feet apart in a vertical triangla 
visible all round the horizon . When making way through the water , such vessa 
shall show the proper coloured sidelights , but when not making way they shall not 
show them . By day they shall show a basket in the forepart of the vessel as near 
the stern as possible not less than 10 feet above the rall; and , in addition , where 
it can best be seen , one black conical shape, apex upwards. If they have their 
gear out while at anchor they shall, on the approach of other vessels, show the 
basket in the direction from the anchor ball towards the net or gear. 

( e ) Vessels when engaged in trawling, by which is meant the dragging of a 
dredge net or other apparatus along or near the bottom of the sea , and not at 
anchor 
( i ) If power -driven vessels , shall carry in the same position as the white 

light mentioned in Rule 2 ( a ) (i ) a tri- coloured lantern , so construct 
ed and fixed as to show a white light from right ahead to 2 points 
221 degrees ) on each bow , and a green light and a red light over an 
arc of the horizon from 2 points (22 degrees) on each bow to 2 points 
(22 . degrees ) abaft the beam on the starboard and port sides , respect 
ively ; and not less than 6 nor more than 12 feet below the tri- coloured 
Jantern a white light in a lantern , so constructed as to show a clear , 
uniform , and unbroken light all round the horizon They shall also 

show the stern light specified in Rule 10 ( a ) . 
( 11 ) If sailing vessels , shall carry a white light in a lantern so constructed 

as to show a clear , uniform , and unbroken light all round the horizon , 
and shall also , on the approach of or to other vessels show , where it 
ran best be seen , a white flare- up light in sufficient time to prevent 

colligion . 
( iii ) By day , each of the foregoing vessels shall show , where it can best be 

seen , a basket. 
( f) In addition to the lights which they are by this Rule required to show 
vessels fishing may , if necessary in order to attract attention of approaching vessels , 
show a flare - up light. They may also use working lights . 

( g ) Every vessel Ashing , when at anchor , shall show the lights or shape specifed 
in Rulc 11 ( a ) , ( b ) or ( c ) ; and shall, on the approach of another vessel or vessels , 
show an additional white light at least 6 feet below the forward anchor light and at 
a horizontal distance of at least 10 feet away from it in the direction of the out 
lying gear . 

( h ) If a vessel when fishing becomes fast by her gear to a rock or other obstruc 
tion she shall in daytime haul down the basket required by sections ( c ) , ( d ) or ( e ) 
and show the signal specified in Rule 11 ( c ) . By night she shall show the light or 
lights specifed in Rule 11 ( a ) or (b ) . In fog , mist, falling snow , heavy rainstorms 
or any other condition similarly restricting visibility , whether by day or by night, 
ghe shall sound the signal prescribed by Rule 15 ( c ) ( v ) , which signal shall also be 
used , on the near approach of another veggel , in good visibility . 

NOTE .-- For fog signals for fishing vessels , see Rule 15 (c ) (lx ) . 


By night she shall shnu . 


7. 


or 


W 


91 


PART II - Sec. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 

- = - = 

Rule 10 
( a ) A vessel when under way shall carry at her stern a white light, so construct 
ed that it shall show an unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of 12 points of 
the compass ( 135 degrees ) , so Axed as to show the light 6 points (671 degrees ) 
from right aft on each side of the vessel, and of such a character as to be visible 
at a distance of at least 2 miles . Such light shall be carried as nearly as practic 
able on the same level as the sidelights . 

NOTE .- - For vessels engaged in towing or being towed , see Rules 3 ( b ) and 5 . 


( b ) In a small vessel, if it is not possible on account of bad weather or other 
sufficient cause for this light to be fixed , an electric torch or a lighted lantern shall 
be kept at hand ready for use and shall, on the approach of an over - taking vessel , 
be shown in sufficient time to prevent collision . 

( c ) A seaplane on the water when under way shall carry on her tail a white 
light, so constructed as to show an unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of 
140 degrees of the compass , so fixed as to show the light 70 degrees from right 
aft on each side of the seaplane, and of such a character as to be visible at a 
distance of at least 2 miles 


Rule 11 


( a ) A vessel under 150 feet in length , when at anchor . shall carry in the fore 
part of the vessel, where it can best be seen , a white light in a lantern so construct 
ed as to show a clear, uniform , and unbroken light visible all round the horizon 
at a distance of at least 2 miles. 

( b ) A vessel of 150 feet or upwards in length , when at anchor, shall carry in 
the forepart of the vessel, at a height of not less than 20 feet above the hull, one 
such light, and at or near the stern of the vessel and at such a height that it shall 
he not less than 15 feet lower than the forward light, another such light. Both 
these lights shall be visible all round the horizon at a distance of at least 3 miles . 


( c ) Between sunrise and sunset every vessel when at anchor shall carry in the 
forepart of the vessel, where it can best be seen , one black ball not less than 2 feet 
in diameter . 


( d ) A vessel engaged in laying or in picking up a submarine cable or navigation 
mark , or a vessel engaged in surveying or underwater operations , when at anchor , 
shull carry the lights or shapes prescribed in Rule 4 ( c ) in addition to those pres 
cribed in the appropriate preceding sections of this Rule . 

( e ) A vessel aground shall carry by night the light or lights prescribed in 
sections ( a ) or ( b ) and the two red lights prescribed in Rulo 4 ( a ) . By day she 
shall carry , where they can best be seen , three black balls , each not less than 2 fcot 
in diameter , placed in a vertical line one over the other , not less than 6 feet apart. 


( f ) A seaplane on the water under 150 feet in length , when at anchor , shall 
carry , where it can best be seen , a white light, visible all round the horizon at a 
distance of at least 2 mlles. 


( 8 ) A seaplane on the water 150 feet or upwards in length , when at anchor , 
shall carry , where they can best be seen , a white light forward and a white light 
aft, both lights visible all round the horizon at a distance of at least 3 miles ; and , 
In addition , if the seaplane is more than 150 feet in span , a white light on each 
side to indicate the maximum span , and visible , so far as practicable , all round the 
horizon at a distance of 1 mile . 


(h ) A seaplane aground shall carry an anchor light or lghts as prescribed in 
sections ( f) and ( g ) , and in addition may carry two red lights in a vertical line, at 
least 3 feet apart, so placed as to be visible all round the horizon 


Rule 12 


Every vessel or seaplane on the water may , if necessary in order to attract 
attention , in addition to the lights which she is by these Rules required to carry , 
show a flare -up light or use a detonating or other efficient sound signal that cannot 
be mistaken for any signal authorised elsewhere under these Rules. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


[ PART II - SEC . 3 


Rule 13 
( a ) Nothing in these Rules shall interfere with the operation of any special 
rules made by the Government of any nation with respect to additional station and 
signal lights for ships of war , for vessels sailing under convoy , or for seaplanes 
on the water ; or with the exhibition of recognition signals adopted by shipowners, 
which have been authorised by their respective Governments and duly registered 
and published . 

(b ) Whenever the Government concerned shall have determined that a naval 
or other military vessel or waterborne seaplane of special construction or purpose 
cannot comply fully with the provisions of any of these Rules with respect to the 
number, position , range or Arc of visibility of lights or shapes , without interfering 
with the military function of the vessel or seaplane, such vessel or seaplane shall 
comply with such other provisions in regard to the number , position , range or arc 
of visibility of lights or shapes as her Government shall have determined to be the 
closest possible compllance with these Rules in respect of that vessel or seaplane . 


Rule 14 
A vessel proceeding under sall, when also being propelled by machinery , shall 
carry in the daytime forward , where it can best be seen , one black conical shape, 
point upwards , not less than 2 feet lo diameter at its base . 


Rule 15 
( a ) A power -driven vessel shall be provided with an efficient whistle , sounded 
by steam or by some substitute for steam , so placed that the sound may not be 
intercepted by any obstruction , and with an efficient fog -horn , to be sounded 
by mechanical means, and also with an efficient bell. A sailing vessel of 20 
tons or upwards shall be provided with a similar fog -horn and bell. 
(b ) All signals prescribed by this Rule for vessels under way shall be given : 

( 1) by power - driven vessels on the whistle ; 
( li ) by Salling vessels on the fog -horn ; 

( iii) by vessels towed on the whisle or fog-horn. 
( c ) In fog, mist, falling snow , heavy rainstorms, or any other condition 
similarly restricting visibility, whether by day or night, the signals prescribed 
in this Rule shall be used as follows:- - 
(1 ) A power -driven yegsel making way through the water , shall sound at 

intervals of not more than 2 minutes a prolonged blast . 
( 11 ) A power - driven vessel under way , but stopped and making no way 

through the water , shall sound at intervals of not more than 2 
minutes two prolonged blasts , with an interval of about 1 second 

between them . 
( iii) A sailing vessel under way shall sound , at intervals of not more than 

1 minute , when on the starboard tack one blast, when on the port 
tack two blasts in succession , and when with the wind abait the beam 

three blasts in succession . 
( iv ) A vessel when at anchor shall at intervals of not more than 1 minute 

ring the bell rapidly for about 5 seconds. In vessels of more than 
350 fcet in length the bell shall be sounded in the forepart of the 
vessel, and in addition there shall be sounded in the after part of 
the vessel, at intervals of not more than 1 minute for about 5 
seconds , a gong or other instrument, the lone and sound 
ing of which cannot be confused with that of the bell. Every 
vessel at anchor may in addition , in accordance with Rule 12, sound 
three blasts in succession , namely , one short, one prolonged , and 
one short blast, to give warning of her position and of the possi 

bility of collision to an approaching vessel. 
( v ) A vessel when towing , a vessel engaged in laying or in picking up a 

submarine cable or navigation mark , and a vessel under way which 
is unable to get out of the way of an approaching vessel though 
being not under command or unable to manoeuvre as required by 
these Rules shall, instead of the signals prescribed in sub -sections 
( i) , ( ii) and ( 111 ) sound , at intervals of not more than 1 minute , 
three blasts in succession , namely , one prolonged blast followed by 
two short blasts . 


PART 11- SG. 3 ] 


THE GAZGTTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 18 , 1956 


93 


( vi) A vessel towed , or, if more than one vessel 18 towed , only the last 

vessel of the tow , if manned , shall, at intervals of not more than 1 
minute , sound four blasts in succession , namely , one prolonged blast 
followed by three short blasts . When practicable , this signal shall 

be made immediately after the signal made by the towing vessel. 
( vii) A vessel aground shall give the signal prescribed in sub - gection (iv ) 

and shall, in addition , give three separate and distinct strokes on 

the bell immediately before and after each such signal. 
( viii ) A vessel of less than 20 tons, a rowing boat, or a seaplane on the 

water, shall not be obliged to give the above -mentioned signals, but 
If she does not, she shall make some other eficient sound signal at 

intervals of not more than 1 minute . 
( ix ) A vessel when Alghing, if of 20 tons or upwards, ghall at intervals of 

not more than 1 minute , sound a blast, guch blast to be followed by 
ringing the bell ; or she may şound , in lieu of these signals , a blast 
consisting of a series of several alternate notes of higher and lower 
pitch , 


Rule 18 

Speed to be moderate in fog , etc . 
( a ) Every vessel, or seaplane when taxi- ing on the water , shall , in fog , mist, 
- - Uing snow , heavy rainstorms or any other condition similarly restricting 

Bibility , go at a moderate speed , having careful regard to the existing circum 
stances and conditions. 

( b ) A power - driven yessel hearing , apparently forward of her beam , the 
fog - signal of a vessel the position of which is not ascertained , shall , so far as 
the circumstances of the case admit, stop her engines , and then navigate with 
caution until danger of collision is over. 


Part C .- STEERING AND SALLING RULES 

Preliminary 
1 . In obeying and construing these Rules, any action taken should be pogi 
tive , in ample time, and with due regard to the observance of good seamanship . 

2 . Risk of collision can , when circumstances permit, be ascertained by care 
fully watching the compass bearing of an approaching vessel. If the bearing 
does not appreciably change , such risk should be deemed to exist . 

3 . Mariners should bear in mind that seaplanes in the act of landing or taking 
off, or operating under adverse weather conditions, may be unable to change 
their intended action at the last moment. 

Rule 17 
When two sailing vessels are approaching one another , so as to involve risk 
of collision , one of them shall keep out of the way of the other , as follows: 

( a ) A vessel which is running free shall keep out of the way of a vessel 
which is close -hauled . 

( b ) A vessel which is close - hauled on the port tack shall keep out of the 
way of a vessel which is close -hauled on the starboard tack . 

(c ) When both are running free , with the wind on different sides, the vessel 
which has the wind on the port side shall keep out of the way of the other . 

( a ) When both are running tree , with the wind on the same side, the vegsel 
which is to windward shall keep out of the way of the vessel which is to leeward . 

( e ) A vessel which has the wind aft shall keep out of the way of the other 
vessel. 


Rule 18 


( a ) When two power - driven vessels are meeting end on , or nearly end on , 
so as to involve risk of collision , each shall alter her course to starboard, so 
that each may pass on the port side of the other. This Rule only applies to cases 
where vessels are meeting end on , or nearly end on , in such a manner as to in 
volve risk of collision , and does not apply to two vessels which must, it both 
keep on their respective courses , pass clear of each other . The only cases to 


94 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 18 , 1958 


[PART II - SEC. 8 


which it does apply are when each of two vessels is end on , or nearly end on , to 
the other ; In other words, to cases in which , by day , each vessel sees the maste 
of the other in a line, or nearly in a line, with her own ; and by night, to cases 
in which each vegsel is in such a position as to see both the sidelights of the 
other . It does not apply , by day , to cases in which a vessel sees another ahead 
crossing her own course ; or, by night, to cases where the red light of one veggel 
is opposed to the red light of the other or where the green light of one vessel is 
opposed to the green light of the other or where a red light without a green ligbt 
or a green light without a red light is seen ahead, or where both green and red 
lights are seen anywhere but ahead . 

( b ) For the purposes of this Rule and Rules 19 to 29 inclusive, except Rulo 
20 (b ) , a seaplane on the water shall be deemed to be a vessel, and the expres 
sion " power -driven vessel” shall be construed accordingly . 

Rule 19 
When two power - driven vessels are crossing , so as to involve risk of collision , 
the vessel which has the other on her own starboard side shall keep out of the 
way of the other , 

Rule 20 
( a ) When a power - driven vessel and a sailing vessel are proceeding in such 
directions as to involve risk of collision , except as provided in Rules 24 and 28 . 
the power - driven vessel shall keep out of the way of the sailing vessel. 

( b ) A seaplane on the water shall, in general, keep well clear of all Veasons 
and avoid impeding their navigation . In circumstances , however , where risk 
of collision exists , she shall comply with these Rules. 


Rule 21 
Where by any of these Rules one of two veggels is to keep out of the way , the 
other shall keep her course and speed . When from any cause , the later vessel 
Ainds herself so close that collision cannot be avoided by the action of the giving 
way vessel alone, she also shall take such action as will best aid to avert colli 
sion ( see Rules 27 and 29 ) . 


Rule 22 
Every vessel which is directed by these Rules to keep out of the way of an 
other vessel shall, if the circumstances of the case admit, avoid crossing ahead of 
the other. 

Rule 23 
Every power -driven vessel which is directed by these Rules to keep out of 
the way of another vessel shall , on approaching her , if necessary , slacken her 
speed or stop or reverse . 


Rule 24 
( a ) Notwithstanding anything contained in these Rules , every veggel over 
taking any other shall keep out of the way of the overtaken vessel. 


( b ) Every veggel coming up with another vessel from any direction more than 
2 points ( 22 . degrees ) abait her beam , i. e ., in such a position , with reference to 
the vessel which she is overtaking, that at night she would be unable to see 
either of that vessel s sidelights , shall be deemed to be an overtaking vessel; and 
no subsequent alteration of the bearing between the two vessels shall make the 
overtaking vessel a crossing vessel within the meaning of these Rules , or relleve 
her of the duty of keeping clear of the overtaken vessel until she is finally past 
and clear . 

( c ) If the overtaking vessel cannot determine with certainty whether she is 
forward of or abaft this direction from the other vessel, she shall assume that 
she is an overtaking vessel and keep out of the way . 


Rule 28 
( A ) In a narrow channel every power -driven vessel when proceeding along 
the course of the channel shall, when it is safe and practicable , keep to that 
side of the fairway or mid - channel which lies on the starboard side of such 
vessel . 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


95 


( b ) Whenever a power - driven vessel is nearing a bend in a channel where a 
power - driven vessel approaching from the other direction cannot be seen , such 
veggel, when she shall have arrived within one -half mile of the bend , shall give 
a signal by one prolonged blast of her whistle , which signal shall be answered 
by a similar blast given by any approaching power - driven vessel that may be 
within hearing around the bend . Regardless of whether an approaching vessel 
on the farther side of the bend is heard , such bend shall be rounded with alert 
ness and caution . 


Rule 28 
All vessels not engaged in fishing shall , when under way , keep out of the way 
of any vessels fishing with nets or lines or trawls . This Rule shall not give to 
any vessel engaged in fishing the right of obstructing a fairway used by vessels 
other than fishing vessels. 


Rule 27 
In obeying and construing these Rules due regard shall be had to all dangers 
of navigation and collision , and to any special circumstances, including the limita 
tions of the craft involved , which may render a departure from the above Rules 
necessary in order to avoid immediate danger . 


PART D . - MISCELLANEOUS 

Rule 28 
( a ) When vessels are in sight of one another , a power - driven vessel under way , 
in taking any course authorised or required by these Rules, shall indicate that 
course by the following signals on her whistle , namely : 

One short blast to mean " I am altering my course to starboard ." 
Two short blasts to mean " I am altering my course to port." 

Three short blasts to mean “My engines are going astern ." 
( b ) Whenever a power - driven vessel which , under these Rules, is to keep her 
course and speed , is in sight of another vessel and is in doubt whether sufficient 
action is being taken by the other vessel to avert collision , she may indicate such 
doubt by giving at least five short and rapid blasts on the whistle . The giving of 
such a signal shall not relieve a vessel of her obligations under Rules 27 and 29 
or any other Rule , or of her duty to indicate any action taken under these Rules 
by giving the appropriate sound signals laid down in this Rule. 

( c) Nothing in these Rules shall interfere with the operation of any special 
rules made by the Government of any nation with respect to the use of additional 
whistle signals between ships of war or vessels sailing under convoy , 

Rule 29 
Nothing in these Rules shall exonerate any vessel, or the owner, master or crew 
thereof, from the consequences of any neglect to carry Lights or signals , or of any 
neglect to keep a proper look - out or of the neglect of any precaution which may 
be required by the ordinary practice of seamen , or by the special circumstances of 
the case. 

Rule 30 
Reservation of Rules for Harbours and Inland Navigation . 
Nothing in these Rules shall interfere with the operation of a special rule duly 
made by local authority relative to the navigation of any harbour, river , lake, or 
Inland water, including a reserved seaplane area . 


Rulo 81 

Distress Signals 
When a vessel or seaplane on the water is in distress and requires assistance 
from other vessels or from the shore , the following shalį be the signals to be used 
or displayed by her , either together or separately , namely : 

( a ) A gun or other explosive signal fired at intervals of about a minute . 
(b ) A continuous sounding with any fog - signal apparatus, 
(c ) Rockets or shells , throwing red stars fred one at a time at short Intervals . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15, 1955 


[PART II - 


C . 8 


( d ) A signal made by radiotelegraphy or by any other signalling method 

consist of the group . . . - - - . . . in the Morse Code. 
( e ) A signal sent by radiotelephony consisting of the spoken word "Mayday " . 
(f ) The International Code Signal of distress indicated by N . C . 
( 8 ) A signal consisting of a square flag having above or below it a ball or 

anything resembling a ball, 
( h ) Flames on the vessel ( ag from a burning tar barrel, oil barrel, etc .) . 
( i) A rocket parachute flare showing a red light. 


The use of any of the above signals , except for the purpose of indicating that 
vessel or a seaplane is in distress, and the use of any signals which may be con 
fused with any of the above signals is prohibited . 


NOTE : - A radio signal has been provided for use by vessels in distress for the 
purpose of actuating the auto - alarms of other vessels and thus securing attention 
to distress calls or messages . The signal consists of a series of twelve dashes, sent 
in 1 minute , the duration of each dash being 4 seconds, and the duration of the 
interval between two consecutive dashes 1 second . 


Rule 32 
All orders to helmsmen shall be given in the following sense ; right rudder 
starboard to mean " put the vessel s rudder to starboard " ; left rudder or port 
mean " put the vessel s rudder to port." 


SECOND SCHEDULE 
List of the countries which have accepted the International Regulations for 

preventing collisions at Sea , 1948 
Commonwealth of Australia . 
Kingdom of Belglum 
Republic of the United States of Brazil . 
Union of Burma. 
Dominion of Canada . 
Republic of Chile . 
Republic of Colombia . 
Kingdom of Denmark . 
Dominican Republic , 
Republic of Ecuador . 
Republic of Egypt . 
Republic of Finland . 
Republic of France . 
Kingdom of Greece. 
Hungarian People s Republic , 
Republic of Iceland. 
Republic of India . 
Kingdom of Iraq . 
Republic of Ireland . 
Republic of Italy . 
Republic of Mexico , 
Kingdom of the Netherlands. 
Dominion of New Zealand . 
Republic of Nicaragua . 
Kingdom of Norway , 
Dominion of Pakistan . 
Republic of Panama. 
Republic of Peru . 
Republic of the Philippines . 
Polish People s Republic . 
Republic of Portugal . 
Roumanian People s Republic . 
Union of South Africa . 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics . 
The Spanish State . 
Kingdom of Sweden . 
Republic of Turkey . 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . 
Republic of the United States of America . 
Federative People s Republic of Yugoslavia , 


PART I - Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15, 1955 


97 


THIRD SCHEDULE 
Provisions Revoked 

Part I 
The whole of the Order in Council made on the 6th day of September, 1880, 
applying the Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea of 1879 to ships belong 
Ing to Khelat, Muscat, Zanzibar , Cochin , Travancore, Kutch and Kattyawar ( h ) . 

The whole of the Order in Council made on the 13th day of October 1910, con 
solidating Orders in Council making Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea 
and Rules as to Signals of Distress (I) . 

The whole of the Merchant Shipping (Distress Signals ) Order, 1932 (1) . 
The whole of the Merchant Shipping (Urgency Signal ) Order , 1932 ( k ) . 

Part II 
Paragraph (1 ) of Rule 19 of Schedule II to the Air Navigation Order, 1949 ( 1) . 

Subparagraph ( a ) of paragraph 4 of the First Schedule to the Air Navigation 
Amendment) Order , 1950 ( m ) , and paragraph 13 of the said First Schedule . 

Paragraph ( 1 ) of Rule 19 of Schedule II to the Colonial Air Navigation Order, 
1949 ( n ) . 

Subparagraph ( a ) of paragraph 4 of the First Schedule to the Colonial Air 
Navigation (Amendment) Order , 1950 ( o ) , and paragraph 13 of the said First 
Schedule . 


Explanatory Note 
( This Note is not part of the Order , but is intended to indicate its general 
purport.) 

This Order in Council makes regulations for preventing collisions at sea 
( including collisions involving seaplanes on the water ) and prescribes what signals 
shall be used by ships as signals of distress . The Order gives effect to the Inter 
national Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea , 1948 , which were approved 
by the International Conference on Safety of Life at Sea , 1948 . 


(h ) S .R . & O . Rev . 1903 , VIII , Merchant Shipping , p . 252 . 
( i) S .R . & O . 1910 / 1113 ; Rev . XIV , p . 515 ; 1910, p . 457 , 
( j) S . R . & Q . 1932 / 945 ; Rev . XIV , p . 527; 1932 ; p . 931. 
( k ) S . R . & O . 1932 /946 ; Rey , XIV , p . 528 ; 1932 , p . 932. 
(1) S .I. 1949 / 349 ; 1919 I, p . 165 . 
( m ) S .I. 1950 / 563; 1950 I, P . 302. 
( n ) S .I. 1949 / 200 ; 1949 I, p . 359 . 
( 0 ) S .I. 1950 / 1188 ; 1950 I, p . 329 . 

[No . 58 -MA ( 3 ) /54 .] 


S . R . O . 144 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 273 of the Indian 
Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 (XXI of 1023) , the Central Government hereby directs 
that the following further amendment shall be made in the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Transport . No, S . R . O . 138 , dated the 7th 
January , 1953 , namely : 


In the Schedule to the said notification , in the entries against section 273 and 
relating to the Superintendent of Central Excise , Jamnagar Circle and Deputy 
Superintendent of Central Excise, Okha , for the words and brackets " Beyt and 
Dwarka (Rupen ) " in the third column headed " Limits " , the words and brackets 
" Beyt, Dwarka (Rupen ) and Okha" shall be substituted . 


[No. 33 -M . A ( 1) /64 .) 
S . K , GHOSH , Dy . Secy . 


98 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15, 1956 


(Part II - SEC. 3 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

Bombay , the 24th December 1964 
S . R . O . 148 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by clause 20 of the 
Cotton Textiles (Control ) Order , 1948 , I hereby direct that the following further 
amendment shall be made in the Textile Commissioner s Notification No . 9 ( 9 ) 
Tex .1 /49, dated the 15th April 1950 , namely : 

In the said Notification , 

I. For paragraph ( ti ) of direction I the following paragraph shall be substi 
tuted , namely : -- 
" ( 11) Directions 9 (aa ), 9 ( b ) and (c ) shall be complied with by all pro 

ducers who have a spinning plant Directions 9 ( d ) and ( 1 ) shall 
be complied with by all producers who have no spinning plant. 
The remaining directions 2 to 8 , 9 ( a ) , 9 ( e ) and 10 shall be complied 
with by all producers , that is to say , both by producers who have 

a spinning plant and those who have not ;" 
II. In direction 9 , 
( 1 ) for paragraph ( c ) the following paragraph shall be substituted , namely : E 
" ( c ) no producer who has a spinning plant shall use any coloured yd 

in the body of a saree except in the heading thereof” . 
(2 ) for paragraph (e ) the following paragraph shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( e ) no producer shall produce any saree with a heading more than 9 ” in 

width ." 
(3 ) The existing Explanation shall be renumbered as Explanation I, and 
after Explanation I as so renumbered , the following shall be inserted , namely : 
" Explanation II. The term " heading" in paragraph ( e ) of this direction , 

means heading woven with coloured or grey yarn , and includes 
printed heading. 

M , R . KAZIMI, 
Textile Commissioner, 

[No. T.C .(9 ) 17/80.] 


New Delhi, the 8th January 1955 
S . R . O . 146 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Supplies ( Temporary Powers) Act, 1946 (Act XXIV of 1946 ) the Central Govern 
ment hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be made in the 
Cotton Textlles (Control) Order , 1948, namely : 
In the said Order, after clause 30 the following shall be inserted , namely : 
" 30A . The Textile Commissioner may, for the purpose of determining what 

steps would be necessary for maintaining or increasing supplies of 
cloth or yarn , conduct , or cause to be conducted , such enquiry as 
he may deem appropriate in relation to any producer." 

[No. 9 (4 ) -CT ( A ) / 55- 1. ) 
P . V . S . SARMA , Under Secy , 


Bombay , the 29th December 1954 
S .R . O . 147. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Explanation 
I to sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the Dhoties (Additional Excise Duty ) Act , 
1953 ( 39 of 1953 ) , the Central Government hereby fixes the permissible quota for 
the quarter ending on 31st March , 1955 and every subsequent quarter , in respect 
of the Mandsaur Textile Mills , Mandsaur to be 1, 39 , 776 ( one hundred thirty nine 
thousand seven hundred and seventy six ) yards . 

[ No. 9 ( 27 )-CT( A ) /53-II.] 
P . S. NAYAR , Under Secy . 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


CORRIGENDUM 

Neui Delhi, the 7th January 1955 
8 . R .O . 148 .- - In the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Com 
merce and Industry No, S . R . O . 203, dated the 6th January , 1954 , published in the 
Gazette of India , Part II , Section 3, dated the 9th January , 1954 , 
For " Shri Radhesyam Prajiya . National Engineering Workers Union , 

C / o The Hind Cycles Ltd ., Bombay ." 
Read " Shri R . S . Parija , 8 / 1, Foot of Worli Hills House, Opposite Glaxo 
Laboratories Ltd ., Worli, Bombay - 18 ." 

[No. 5 (5 )IA (G ) / 53 .] 
P , S, SUNDARAM , Under Secy . 


TEA CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 8th January 1955 
S . R . O . 149. - In pursuance of Section 19 of the Tea Act, 1953 ( 29 of 1953) , and 
in modification of the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Lommerce and Industry S .R . O . No. 3685 , dated the 31st December 1964 , the Central 
Government is pleased to declare that the Indian export allotment of tea for the 
financial year 1964 - 55 shall be 464,908 ,637 lbs. avoirdupois being 133 per cent. of 
India s standard export figure. 

[No. 86 ( 1 ) Plant /54 .] 
R . N . KAPUR, Under Secy . 


MERCHANDISE MARKS 

New Delhi, the 12th January 1955 
S .R . O . 150 . - The following draft of certain amendments to the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, No . S . R . O . 
440 , dated the 31st March , 1951, which it is proposed to make in exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 12A of the Indian Merchandise 
Marks Act, 1889 ( IV of 1889 ) , is published , as required by sub - section ( 4 ) of the 
said section for the information of persons likely to be affected thereby , and notice 
is hereby given that the said drait will be taken into consideration on or after 
the 14th February , 1955 . 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified above will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


Draft Amendment 
In Part II of the Schedule to the said notification , after Item 8 the following 
item shall be added , namely : 
" 9 . Zip Fasteners 

on the goods 

themselves" . 

[No. 3 (47 ) - TMP (MM ) / 54.] 
New Delhi, the 13th January 1958 
S . R . O . 151. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 20 of the Indian 
Standards Institution ( Certification Marks ) Act, 1952 (XXXVI of 1952 ) , the 
Central Government hereby makes the following rules, the same having been 
previously published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of the said section , namely : 
THE INDIAN STANDARDS INSTITUTION ( CERTIFICATION MARKS) 

RULES , 1955 
1 . Short title and commencement ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Indian 
Standards Institution ( Certification Marks) Rules , 1985 . 

(2 ) They shall come into force on the 20th day of January , 1965 . 
2 . Definitions. -- ( 1 ) In these ruleg, unless the context otherwise requires - 
( a ) " the Act" means the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) 

Act, 1982 ( XXXVI of 1952 ) ; 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 18 , 1955 


[PART II — Sec. 3 


100 


(b ) " applicant" means a person who has applied to the Institution for a 

licence ; 1 
( c ) “ Form ” means a form set out in these rules ; 
( d ) “ licensee" means a person to whom a licence has been granted under 

the Act; 
( e ) " regulation " means a regulation made by the Institution under section 

21 ; and 
( 1) " section " means a section of the Act. 
(2 ) All words or expressions used in these rules which are not defined shall 
have the samemeanings as in the Act . 


3 . Establishment and publication of Indian Standarda ( 1 ) The Institution 
shall by means of regulations lay down the procedure to be followed by it 
( a ) in establishing the Indian Standard , in relation to any article or 

process, and 
( b ) from time to time, in adding to , amending , varying or rescinding any 

Indian Standard so established ; 
Provided that any Indian Standard established by the Institution at any 

time before the date on which the regulations come into force shall 
be deemed to have been established under the provisions of these 
rules 


( 2 ) A list of the Indian Standards established by the Institution at any time 
before the commencement of the regulations shall be published in the Official 
Gazette as soon as may be, after such commencement, and thereafter a list of 
the Indian Standards established by the Institution during any quarter shall be 
published in the quarter immediately following the quarter to which the list 
relates . 

( 3 ) Indian Standards established by the Institution shall, from time to time, 
by published by the Institution and copies thereof shall be made available for 
sale . 


4 . Standard Mar . - ( 1 ) The design of the Standard Mark in relation to each 
Indian Standard together with a verbal description of the design of the Standard 
Mark and the title of the Indian Standard or the titles of the set of Indian Stan 
dards to which the design relates shall be published by the Institution in the 
Official Gazette , 

( 2 ) The Institution may, from time to time, by order notified in the Official 
Gazette , add to , amend , vary or rescind and Standard Mark published under 
sub -rule ( 1 ) 


5 . Application for a Licence . — ( 1 ) Every application for the grant of a licence 
shall be made to the Institution in Form I. 

( 2 ) Every application for a licence shall be accompanied by a statement furnish 
ing in detail any scheme of Inspection and test which the applicant maintains or 
has in use or proposes to mantain or to put into use and which is designed to 
regulate, during the course of manufacture or production , the quality of the 
articles or process for which the licence is sought. 

( 3 ) Every application shall be signed , in the case of an individual, by the 
applicant or, in the case of a firm , by the proprletor , partner or the managing 
director of the firm or by any other person authorised to sign any declaration 
on behalf of the firm . The name and designation of the person signing the appli 
cation shall be recorded legibly in the space set apart for the purpose in the 
application form . 

(4 ) Every application for a licence shall, on receipt by the Institution , be 
numbered in order of priority of the receipt and be acknowledged . 

( 5 ) The Institution may call for any supplementary information or documen 
tary evidence from any applicant in support of any statement made by him in 
his application within such time as may be directed by the Institution and any 
non - compliance with such direction may have the effect of the application being 
summarily rejected by the Institution . 


PART II- SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


IOI 


6 . Foes - The fees and expenses leviable in respect of the grant or renewal 
of a Licence and in respect of all matters in relation to such licence shall be pres 
cribed in the regulations ! 

7 . Preliminary Inqulry . On receipt of an application for a licence and before 
granting a licence, the Institution may 
( a ) require evidence to be produced that the articles or process in respect 

of which a licence has been applied for conform to the related Indian 

Standard or Indian Standards ; 
( b ) require evidence to be produced that the applicant has in operation a 

scheme of routine inspection and testing, which will adequately 
ensure that all marked products shall contorm to the Indian Stan 

darda 
( c ) require all reasonable facilities to be provided to an Inspector of the 

Institution to inspect the office, workshop or godowns of the appl 
cant for the purpose of verifying the evidence produced by the ap 
plicant under clause ( a ) and / or clause ( b ) or both so as to enable 

the Inspector to submit a report to the Institution ; 
(d ) for the purpose of clause (a ), direct the applicant to submit samples , 

at his own cost, to such testing authority as the Institution may con 

sider appropriate , and 
( e ) on the basis of any report received under clause ( c ) And / or clause 

( d ) or both , require the application to carry out such alterations 
in , or additions to , the scheme of inspection and testing or the pro 
cege of manufacture or production in use by the applicant as the 

Institution may think it. 
8 . Grant of a Licence — ( 1) If the Institution is satisfied , after a preliminary 
Inquiry , that the applicant a fit person to use a Standard Mark , the Institution 
may grant him A licence au thorising him to use guch Standard Mark in respect 
of the article or class of articles manufactured by him or in respect of the pro 
ceos employed by him in any manufacture or work , subject to such terms and 
conditions, if any , as the Institution may deem it to impose , 

( 2 ) A licence shall be granted in Form II for a period not exceeding three 
years and the Institution may, on an application made by the licensee at least 
one month before the expiry of the period for which the licence has been granted , 
renew the same for a period not exceeding three years at a time. 

( 3 ) The Institution may , on one month s notice to a licensee , and during the 
period of the validity of the licence alter any terms and conditions subject to 
which the licence has been granted 

( 4 ) Where the Institution , after a preliminary inquiry , is of the opinion that a 
Licence should not be granted , the Institution may , not later than three months 
from the date of receipt of the application give a reasonable opportunity to the 
applicant of being heard either in person or through a representative authorised 
by him in this behalf and may take into consideration any fact or explanation 
urged on behalf of the applicant before rejecting the application , 


9 . Inspectors . - ( 1 ) Every Inspector appointed under sub - section ( 1) of section 
8 shall be furnished by the Institution with a certificate of appointment as an 
Inspector in Form III. The certificate shall be carried by the Inspector at all 
times while he is on duty and shall, on demand, be produced by him , 

( 2 ) Every applicant for a licence or every licensee shall afford to the Ing 
pector such reasonable facilities as the Inspector may require for carrying out 
the duties imposed on him by or under the Act . 


10 . Power of Inspector . For the purposes of performing the duties imposed 
on him by or under the Act, an Inspector may 
( a ) at any time during the usual business hours enter upon any premises 

in which any article or process in respect of which a licence has 
been granted under rule 8 is manufactured or employed by a licensee 
with a view to ascertaining that the Standard Mark is being used 
in accordance with the terms and conditions imposed by the Insti 
tution and that the scheme of routine inspection and testing specified 

by the Institution is being correctly followed ; 
( b ) Inspect and take samples at such premises of any such article or any 

material used or intended to be used in the manufacture of such 
article which is marked with a Standard Mark ; 


102 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 18 , 1956 


[ PART II -- Sec. 3 


( c ) inspect any process at such premises in respect of which the licensee 

has been given the authority to use the Standard Mark ; 
( d ) examine the records kept by the licensee relating to the use of the 

Standard Mark ; 
( e ) at any time between sunrise and sunset enter the premises of any person 

who lg not licensed under rule 8 and in respect of whom the Institu 
tion has reasons to believe that a Standard Mark prescribed for any 
article or process is being affixed by such person on any article manu 
factured , produced , processed or treated by him in contravention of 
the provisions of this Act and these rules and inspect any operation 
carried out in or upon such premises and take samples of any such 
article or material used or believed to be used in the manufacture, 
production , processing or treatment of such article or open any 
package or container which contains or is believed to contain any 
quantity of any such article , material or substance. 


11, Suspension or cancellation of a license. - ( 1 ) Any licence granted by the 
Institution may be suspended or cancelled by it, if it is satisfled 
( a ) that the articles marked with the Standard Mark under a licence do 

not comply with the related Indian Standard or Standards; or 
( b ) that the licensee has used the mark in respect of a process which duwu 

not come up to the related Indian Standard or Standards ; or 
( c ) that the licensee has failed to provide reasonable facilities to any 

Inspector to enable him to discharge the duties imposed on him by 

or under the Act ; or 
( d ) that the licensee has failed to comply with any of the terms and con 

ditions of the license , 
( 2 ) No licence shall be suspended or cancelled , unless the Institution 
(i) has served on the licensee a notice of its Intention to do so stating the 

grounds for the proposed action ; and 
( ii ) has considered in such manner as may be provided in the regulations, 

any explanation which the licensee may urge on his behalf at any 

time before the expiry of the period specifled in the notice . 
( 3 ) Where a licence has been suspended or cancelled or the term thereof 
has not been renewed on the expiry of the period of its validity , the licensee shall 
discontinue torthwith the use of the Standard Mark notwithstanding the pendency 
of any appeal or intended appeal before the Central Government under section 
11 and if there be with the licensee or his agents any articles in stock which have 
been improperly marked , the licensee or his agents , as the case may be , shall 
take necessary steps to get the Standard Mark on such articles either removed , 
cancelled, defaced or erased . 

12 . Dooision of the Institution . The decigion of the Institution under sub - rulo 
( 4 ) of rule 8 or rule 11 together with the grounds for arriving at such decision 
shall be communicated in writing by registered post to the applicant or the 
licensee , as the case be, 


18 . Competent authority . - ( 1 ) The Central Government may specity in a 
notification under section 10 all or any of the following authorities or organisa 
tions to discharge the functions of a competent authority under the Act, namely : 

(1) an organisation or officer of the Government, 
( i ) a testing organisation or laboratory , 
( iil ) an organisation of analysts , 
(iv ) an organisation comprising a sector of a particular Industry or trade , 

ΟΙ 
( v ) any other organisation on whom the Central Government may deem it 

Alt to confer the powers of a competent authority . 
( 2 ) Any authority or organisation specified in sub - rule ( 1 ) may apply to the 
Central Government furnishing particulars of its constitution , and the resources 
at its disposal for carrying out the inspection of the nature specifed in the Act 
and these rules together with an undertaking that it shall comply with the pro 
visions of the Act and these rules and the regulations made thereunder or with 
any order, direction or instruction which may from time to time be made, issued 
or given by the Central Government or the Institution , 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 

103 

= - 
( 8 ) Dn receipt of an application from any such authority or organisation , the 
Central Government, if it is satisfied after necessary inquiries that the authority 
or organisation is fit to act as a competent authority , may, in consultation with 
the Institution , by notification in the Official Gazette specify the authority or or 
ganisation as a competent authority and direct that any power exercisable by 
the Institution under clause ( e ) of section 3 may be exercisable also by such 
Authority or organisation and subject to such conditions, if any , as may be speci 
fied in the notification , In issuing any direction under this clause, the Central 
Government shall specify the industries in respect of which and the area or areas 
for which the said powers shall be exercisable by such competent authority . 

14 . Exemption from prohibition to use certain names oto . — ( 1 ) The Institu 
tion may exempt any name, mark or trade mark , referred to in section 6 from 
the operation thereof, if such name, mark or trade mark has been established 
by or under any law for the time being in force and an application has been made 
to it by any person under sub - rule ( 2 ) within a period of six months from the 
date of commencement of these rules . 

(2 ) Any person Claiming an exemption in respect of any name, mark or trade 
mark under sub - rule ( 1 ) may make an application to the Institution in Form IV . 

( 3 ) The Institution shall maintain a register in which shall be entered all 
names, marks and trade marks exempted by the Institution under sub - rule ( 1) . 

15 . Appeals againgt decisions of the Institution ( 1 ) An appeal under section 

may be preferred to the Central Government within three months from the 
date of the decision of the Institution communicated to the applicant or licensee 
or within such further time as may be allowed by the Central Government and 
such appeal shall be lodged in duplicate . 

( 2 ) The Central Government may call for relevant papers from the Institution 
and may after such inquiry in the matter as it considers necessary pass such 
order as it thinks At and any such order passed by the Central Government shall 
be final 


FORM I 

( See rule 5 ) 
Application for Licence to use the Standard Mark 


То 


The Director, Indian Standards Institution . 
1. I /We, carrying on business at . . . . . . . 

. . . ( full business addregs ) 
under the style of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . ( full name of individual or firm ) 
hereby apply for a licence under the INDIAN STANDARDS INSTITUTION 
( CERTIFICATION MARKS) ACT, 1952, to use the Standard Mark in respect of 
the article / class of articles which conforms to the Indian Standard ( 8 ) Tilsted 

process 
below : 
( a ) * Article . . . 

Type 
Size . . . . . . . . . . 

Grade 
( b ) * Class of Articles 

Type . . . 
Size . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Grade . . . . . . . . . . . 
( c ) • Process . . . . . . 
( d ) Related Indian Standard (s ) 

No . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Title , , . . . . 

No. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Title . . . . . . 
2 . The above article ( s ) are manufactured by . . . ... . . 

process is carried out 
( name of tactory ) on the premises situated at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ( address ) . 

* Only one of the three items under (a ) , (b ) and ( c ) may be covered by one 
Application . Strike out the other two. 


Grade 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


104 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


[PART II - SEC. 3 


3 . Production figures for the said article ( s ) and the value thereof to the best 

process 
of my / our knowledge and estimates are as follows : 
Year Production 

Unit 

Value 

Rs. 


Last year from . . . . . . 
to . . . . . . . . . . 
Current year from . . . , 
to . . . .. . (estimates) 


4 . In order to ensure conformity of the said article ( s ) to the related Indian 

process 
Standard ( s ) 
* * I /We have in uge / propose to use the Scheme of Inspection and Testing 

described in the Statement attached hereto . Routine records of all 
the inspection and tests are being /will be kept in the form detailed 
in the statement. I / we further undertake to modity , amend or alter 
my / our Scheme of Inspection and Testing to bring it in line with that 

which may be specified by you from time to time. 
* * I /We have at predent no Scheme of Inspection and Testing in operation . 

I /We, however , undertake to put in operation any such scheme as 

recommended by the Institution . 
8 . Should any initial enquiry be made by the Institution , I / we agree to extend 
to the Institution all reasonable facilities at my / our command and I /we also agree 
to pay all expenses of the said enquiry , including charges for testing , as and when 
required by the Institution . 

6 . Should the licence be granted and as long as it will remain operative, I / we 
hereby undertake to abide by all the terms and conditions of the licence and the 
Rules and Regulations prescribed under the aforesaid Act. In the event of the 
licence being suspended or cancelled , I /we also undertake to cease with immediate 
effect to use the Standard Mark on any article covered by the licence and to 
withdraw all relevant advertising matters and to take such other steps as may 
be necessary to fulfil the provisions of the aforesaid Rules and Regulations . 
Dated this . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . 

Singnature, . . . . . . 
Name . . . . . 

Designation . . . . . . . 
For and on behalf of . . . . . 

. ... . . . (Name of firm ) 


FORM II 

( See rule 8 ) 
INDIAN STANDARDS INSTITUTION 

Licence for the use of Standard Mark 
Licence No. . . . . . 

1. By virtue of the power conferred on it by the INDIAN STANDARDS INSTI 
TUTION (CERTIFICATION MARKS ) ACT, 1952, the INSTITUTION hereby 
grants to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . OI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (hereinafter called " the 
Licensee ) this licence to use the Standard Mark set out in the first column of the 
First Schedule hereto upon or in respect of the article ( S ) / process set out in the 
second column of the said Schedule which is ( are ) manufactured in accordance 
with / conforms to the related Indian Standard ( s ) referred to in the third column 
of the said Schedule as from time to time amended or revised . 

2 . This licence carries the rights and obligations stipulated in the rules and 
regulations made under the above mentioned Act. In pursuance of his obliga 
tions, the licensee shall pay in due manner and time the scheduled Marking Fee 
get out in the Second Schedule hereto and maintain to the satisfaction of the 
Institution the Scheme of Testing and Inspection a copy of which is attached hereto . 


* * Strike out one not applicable . 


PART II - Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 18 , 1958 


IOS 


3 . This licence shall be valld from . . . . . . . . . . to . . . . . . . . . . . . and may be re 
newed as prescribed in the Rules and Regulations. 
Signed , Sealed and Dated this . . . ... . . . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 . . . . . . . . 

for Indian Standards Institution . 

Seal of the Institution . 
THE FIRST SCHEDULE 


Standard Mark 


Articlc /Procesa 

( 2 ) 


Indian Standard (i) 

( 3 ) 


THE SECOND SCHEDULE 
Schedule of Marking Fee for Licence No.. . 


Article 


Unit 

( 2 ) 


Marking Pec per Unit 


Manner of Payincat 


Procc88 


( 3 ) 


( 3 ) 


Attachment 
To Licence No. . . . . .. . . . . . . Scheme of Testing and Inspection . 


FORM III 

( See rule ) 
INDIAN STANDARDS INSTITUTION 

Certificate of Appointment of Inspector 
It is hereby declared that Shri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (name and designation ) 
whose photograph is attached and whose signature appears below has for the 
assignment hereinafter stated been appointed by the Institution as an Inspector 
for the purposes of the INDIAN STANDARDS INSTITUTION ( CERTIFICATION 
MARKS ) ACT , 1952 to hold office from this . . . . . . , . . . . , day of . . . . . . . . . . . . 
19 - 
Assignment . . . . . . . 


Photograph 


Secl of the 
Institution 


Signature of Inspector, 


for Indian Standards Institution . 


106 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


[ PART II — SIC . 3 


FORM IV 

( See rule 14 ) 
Application for Exemption from Prohibition under Section 6 of the Indian Standards 

Institution (Certification Marks) Act , 1952 . 


To 


The Director , Indian Standards Institution . 
1 . I /We carrying on businegs at . . . . . . . . 

(full business address ) 
under the style of . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . ( Iul 

. . . . . . . ( full name) hereby apply for exemption 
from prohibition under gection 6 of the Indian Standards Institution ( Certification 
Marks ) Act , 1952, in respect of the name/mark / trade mark detailed below of 
which I /we am / are the proprietor ( s ) . Complete information in regard to its use 
19 furnished as required . 

( 1) Name/mark / trade mark * in respect of which exemption is sought. 
( 2 ) Whether registered . 
( 3 ) Date of registration and registration number . 
( 4 ) Authority with whom registered . 
(6 ) Since when the name/mark / trade mark * has been in actual use by the 

Applicant. 
(0 ) The article ( s ) in relation to which the name/mark /trade markt is us 
( 7 ) Claim for distinctiveness of the name/mark / trade mark " . 
( 8 ) Full particulars about the nature of business of the applicant. 

(9 ) Any other remarks. 
2 . I /We declare that the information given above is to the best of my / our 
knowledge true, and in support of it I/we attach the following documentary evl 
dence . 

List of documents enclosed . 
Dated this . . . . . . . 

day of 
Signature . . . . . 

Name . . . . . . . 
Designation . . . 

for and on behalf of 


NOTE . - Separate applications shall be made for each name/mark / trade mark . 
* Strike out which do not apply . 

[No. 25 ( 37 ) - T .M .P ./ 02.] 
K . N . SHENOY , Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

New Delhi, the 8th January 1955 
8 .R . O . 162. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section ( 2 ) of section 38 
of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910 ( IX of 1910 ) , the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shri T . N , Idnani, Director, Central Water and Power Commission (Power 
Wing) to be an Electric Inspector within the State of Tripura . 

[NO . EL - 11 - 12 ( 19 ) / II. ) 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 8th January 1985 
S .R . O . 153 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 08 of the Indian 
Electricity Act , 1910 ( IX of 1910 ) , the Central Government hereby authorises the 
discharge of the functions of the State Government under section 13 and 18 , 
sub - section ( 2 ) of section 84 and sub - clause ( 2 ) of clause V _ and clause XIII of 
the Schedule to the bald Act, in the State of Tripura by Shri T . N . Idnani, Electric 
Inspector. 

[No. EL -11-12 ( 19 ) / II .] 
K . L . SAXENA , Under Secy . 


PART II — SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 18 , 1958 


107 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

New Delhi, the 4th January 1955 


S . R . O . 154 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 11 of the Sugar 
and Gur Control Order , 1950, the Central Government hereby directs that sub 
Ject to any general or special orders which may from time to time be issued by 
It in this behalf , the powers under clause 3 of the said order shall also be exer 
cigable by the Cane Commissioner, Punjab for the purpose of allowing rebate 
in the minimum price of sugarcane, in excess of the limit prescribed in proviso 
( 1 ) of the Government of India in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture Noti 
fication No. S . R . O . 3180, dated the 29th September , 1954 and subject to a maxi 
mum of - / / - per maund of cane, in the interest of the growers . 

(No. SV - 101 (9 ) / 53 - 54 .] 
P . A . GOPALKRISHNAN , Joint Secy. 


(Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 7th January 1955 
S . R .O . 185 . — Under Section 4 ( X ) of the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923 ( XIV of 

J ) , the Central Government hereby nominates Shri K . S . Krishnaswami, Joint 
Secretary, Ministry of Finance , as a member of the Indian Central Cotton Com 
mittee , with effect from 18th November, 1954, vice Shri R . Narayanaswamiresigned . 

[No. F . 1- 12 / 54-Com .II.) 
F . C . GERA , Under Secy . 


( Agriculture ) 


108 


Non Daki , the 10 Fa #wary , 1955 


S . R . O . 156 . -- In pursuance of the provisions of Rule 26 (4 ) of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Rules , 1947, framed under Section 17 of 
the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act , 1946 ( IX . of 1946 ) the Central Government hereby publish the audited accounts of “ Receipts & Expenditure 
of the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee " for the year ending on the 31st March , 1952 , along with the auditors report recorded thercop : 


Receipts 


Amount 


Total 


Payments 


Amount 


Total 


S 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Opening Balance on 1 - 4 - 1951 
Bank . 
Imprest Cash . 
Securities. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,JANUARY16,1968 


0 


ooo 


00 


603 


10 


8 


A . Administration of Indian Ceo 

1,17,771 10 3 
6 ,95,028 8 2 

tral Oilseeds Committee . 
252 00 B . Travelling Allowance to Men 

27,535 II 0 
34 ,48 ,781 4 0 41,44 , 061 12 2 

bers . 
C . Measured taken for promoting 

1, 76 , 137 09 
15 , 30 , 145 13 8 15 , 30 , 145 13 8 Agricultural Research , 
D . Measures taken for promoting 

2 ,093 8 0 
Technological Research. 
80 ,024 14 0 80 ,024 F . Measures taken for promoting 

1,35 ,346 3 1 
304 8 0 

Development & Marketing . 
603 10 8 F . Deposits & advances refundable 

422490 
G . Subsidies for publications . 

11 ,500 0 
H . Investment of funds as on 31- 3 - 1952 : 
43813 90 4,813 7 I. 3 % Convertion loan 1946 - 1986 4 , 96 ,093 12 0 

2 , 21 % Govt . of India Loan 1956 7 , 98 ,000 0 0 
3 . 3 % Madras Los 1952. 

5 , 04 ,687 80 
4 . Short term deposit with In 

3 , 00 ,000 
1,355 6 0 1,355 60 perial Bank of India . 

5 . 31 ten years treasury sayings 50, 000 0 0 

artificates . 
6 . Fixed Deposit with the Im 5, 00 ,000 OO 

per Bank of India , 
7 . Post Office National Savings 1,00 ,000 OO 

certificates , 
8 . 21 % Govt . of India Loan 1960 . 9 ,59, 375 0 37,08, 156 40 


Cess collections under section 3 ( 2 ) 

of the Indian Central Oilseeds 

Committee Act , 1946 
Interest on investments , 
Miscellancoas Receipts. 
Grants from the CentralGovt, from 

the Ground aut and Linseed 

Funds. 
Receipts of unspent balances of 

grants for the schemes financed 
by the Indian Central Oilseeds 

Committee . 
Recovery of Deposits and Advances 


0 


[PARTII–Stc.3 


Baok 15,78 ,267 10 5 


1.Closing balance on 31-9 
Imperest Cash 

Cash 250 
Vouchers. I 


4 0 
12 O 


252 O 


15 ,78 ,519 IOS 


Тоты: 


$ 7 ,61, 309 


7 


PARTII-SEC.3] 


9 


57 ,61, 309 7 9 


(Sd .) N . S. SREEKANTIAH , Secretary . 

Indian Central Oilseeds Committee . 
The accounts have been examined and according to the best of may in formation and in consideration of the explanation given as a result of test audit 
of the accounts they are correct . 

(Sd ) S . C . NANDA , 
Assistant Examiner, O . A . D ., A .G .(F .R . & S .) 

[F 5-69753- Com -I.] 
New Dehi the 15th July 1953 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,JANUARY15,1955 


601 


S . R . O . 157. - In pursuance of the provisions of Rule 26 ( 4 ) of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Rules , 1947 framed under Section 17 of the Indian O11 
seeds Committee Act , 1946 ( IX of 1946 , the Central Government hereby publish the audited accounts of " Receipts and Expenditure of the Indiano 
Central Oilseeds Committee for the year ending on the 31st March , 1953 along with the auditors report recorded thereon . 


Receipts 


Amount 


Total 


Payments 


Amount 


Total 


Rs. 


A P . 


Rs. 


A . P. 


Rs. 


A . P . 


Rs. 


A . P. 


Opening Balance on 1 - 4 - 1952 


A . Administration of Indian Cent 

ral Oilseeds Committee . 


1, 17 , 874 


7 


15 , 78,267 10 5 

252 00 
37,08 , 156 4 0 
10 ,01,491 75 


VOO 


52 , 86 ,675 14 5 
10 ,01,491 75 


B . Travelling Allowance to mem 

bers. 
C . Measures taken for promoting 

Agricultural Research . 
D . Measures taken for promoting 

Technological Research . 


28 ,231 12 
7,05 ,554 10 8 

32 ,923 7 0 


84 , 922 5 II 
4 ,687 80 


80, 234 13 II 


Bank 
Imprest Cash 
Securities 
Cess Collections under section 3 ( 2 ) 

of the Indian Central Oilseeds 

Committee Act , 1946 . 
Interest on Investments 
Less difference between the purchase 

value and face value of 3 % Madras 

Loan 1952 , 
Miscellaneous Receipts 
Grants from the Central Govern 

ment from the Groundnut & 

Linseed funds. 
Receipts of unspent balances of 

grants for the scheme financed by 
the Indian Central Oilseeds Com 
mittee . 
Recovery of Deposits and Advances 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,JANUARY15,1955 


2 , 79 , 942 


2 


I 


394 00 
1 ,49,980 10 8 


2 , 085 00 
3 ,838 00 


260 OO 


4 . 96 ,093 12 0 
7 ,98 , 000 00 
3 ,00 ,000 0 0 


2,681 10 0 


2,681 10 


E . Measures taken for promoting 
394 00 Development & Marketing. 
1,49, 980 10 8 F . Deposits & Advances refundable 

G . Subsidies for publications , 

H . Investment of funds as on 31 - 3 - 53 : 
260 O 1. 3 Convertion Loan 1946- 1986 

2 . 21 Govt . of India Loan 1955 
3 . Short term deposit with Im 

perial Bank of India . 
2 ,681 10 0 + 31°. Ten years treasury savings 

certificates . 
5 . Post Office National Saving 

certificates. 
6 . 21° . Govt. of India Loan , 1960 
7 . 21 . Govt. of India Loan , 1954 
8 . 3 1957 (First Victory Loan ) 
9 . 3 ,6 1959,61 ( Second Victory 

Loan ) 
IO . 3º Govt. of India Loan , 1964 
II. 3 % 1957 ( First Victory Loan ) 
12 , 21% Govt . of India Loan , 1962 
13. 3 % Govt. of India Loan , 1963 


50 .000 Oo 
1,00 , 000 0 0 


9 .59 .375 00 
1, 96 ,625 0 
2 . 96 437 8 


1 ,92 , 375 0 
4 ,62 ,968 12 
2 , 96 ,015 IO 
5 ,47 ,312 8 
4 ,62 , 187 8 


00000000 


[PARTII—Sec.3 


65. 


Total 


Total 


: 


65,21,718 


14 . 3 . 1959,61 ( Second Vic 

Loan ). 
Bank 
Imprest cash on 31-3 - 1953 

Total . 


8 5 


. 
. 


4 ,80,000 OO 756 ,37 ,390 10 O 
1 , 13 ,626 7 8 
252 OO 1,13 ,878 7 8 

65,21, 718 8 5 


PARTII—Sec.3] 


( Sd . ) N . S . SREEKAVTIAH , 

Secretary . 
Indian Central Oilseeds Committee. 


The accounts have been examined and according to the best of my in 
formation and in consideration of the explanation given as a result of test audit 
of the accounts , they are correct. 

(Sd.) KHAZAN CHAND , 
Assistant Examiner , O . A . D . 

A . G . F . R . & S . 


INo. F . 5 -61154 - Com . I.] 
R . L . MEHTA , Dy . Secy . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,JANUARY15,1955 


III 


III 


II2 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15, 1955 


[PART II - - Sec . 3 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 


New Delhi, the 4th January 1955 


S . R . O . 158 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by scction 56 of the Adminis 
tration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , the Central Government 
hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be made in the Ad 
ministration of Evacuee Property ( Central ) Rules , 1950, namely : 
In the said Rules, after rule 15 A the following rule shall be inserted , namely : - - 
“ 15AA . Certain applications for grant of a certificate under section 16 may 

be entertained although made beyond time - An application for 
restoration of an evacuee property made under sub - section ( 1 ) of 
secțion 16 before the commencement of the Administration of Eyt 
cuce Property ( Amendment) Act, 1954 ( 42 of 1954 ), which is pend 
ing on such commencement, may be entertained , notwithstanding 
that the period of limitation specified in rule 15A for making such 
an application had expired." 


P.G.ZACE AREA 


[No. 18 ( 1 ) /54 - Prop.1.1 
P . G . ZACHARIAH, Dy. Sec 


IS 


New Delhi, the 4th January 1955 


S . R . O . 159. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is neces 
sary to acquire certain evacuee properties in the State of Ajmer for the public 
purpose , being a purpose mentioned in sub - section ( 1 ) of section 12 of the Dis 
placed Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954 ) ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the said sub - section , 
it is notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire, and hereby 
acquires , the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule hereto annexed . 


THE SCHEDULE 


No . 


Name of town Ward No. & 
in which the Property 
property is 

No. 
situated 


Description of Property 


Locality 


Name Of Evacude Oiners 


Remarks 


PARTII—Sec.3] 


2 


Ajmer 
Do. . 


. AMC. II /113 Residential Acommodation 
. AMC . II/164 

Do. , . 


Kahar Mohalla , Ajmer . 
Muslim Mochi Mohalla , Ajmer 


Shri Jumme S /o Mithoo 
Shri Hafiz Mohd . Ismail Slo 

Mond . Yusai. 


Do. . 


AMC. II/ 168 


Residential -cum -Business Pre 
mises . 


Do . 


, 


. 


Shri Hafiz Mohd . Ismail 

Mohd . Yusaf . 


Slo 


Residential Accommodation 


. 


Do. 


Do . . 
Do. . 


. AMC II /169 
. AMC II /241 


Do. . 
Do . . 


. 
. 


Do. 


. 


. 


. 


. 
. Shri Abdul Karim 

Mohd . 
. Shri Abdul Aziz 


Slo Kamai 


Do. , 


Do. 


AMC. II /263 Residential Business-cum - In 

. 
dustrial Premises . 
. AMC. II 270 Residential accommodation . .. 

Do. . . 
· AMC. III/102 

Do. . . . Moti Katla , Ajmer . 
. AMC. III /103 Do . . . . 

Do. . . 
AMC. III/258 

Do . . 

. Chunpanchan Gali , Ajmer 
AMC. III 259 

Do. 

. 

Do. , 
AMC. III /267 Do. . . 

Do . . . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,JANUARY16,1955 


Do. , 
Do. . 
Do . 
Do. . 
Do. . 
Do. . 


. Shri Abdul Rehman 

Shri Sheikh Imamouddin 
. Shri Farzand Ali. 
. Smt. Basheeran Wlo Chhota. 
. ShriGheesa S /o Manda . 
. Shri Peer Mohd . S /O Allah 

Noor , 
ShriNazeer Hussain S /o Quadar 


Do . . 


, AMC. III/648 


Do. 


, 


, 


. Imli Mohalla , Ajmer 


Bus 


14 


Do . , 


AMC. III/649 


Do. . 


. 


Do. . 


. 


. Smt. Imaman Wo Ghulam 

Rasool (11 ) Nazir Hussain . 


114 


23 


Ajmer 


AMC III /710 


Residental Accommodation 


Phool Gali , Ajmer 


Shri PeerMohd S / O Allah Noor 
11 Mohd Yusaf 


Do 


AMC IV / 45 


. Purani Mandi, Ajmer 


Shri Munshi Gulam Ali Khan 

S /o Abdul Aziz 
ShriUsman Khan S, Peer 

Khan 


DO 


AMC IV /67 


Do 


Do 


Shri Altaf Ahmad 


AMC IV /174 
AMC IV / 233 


SO 


Shri Abdul Gafoor Khan 

Allah Noor Khan 


DO 


Shri Waluyat Hussain 


AMC V /603 Residential- cum - Business Pre- Panigran Chowk Ajmer 

mises 
AMC V /626 Residential Accommodation Sharkhan Mohalli, Ajmer 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,JANUARY18,1955 


DO 


Hakım Anwar Ahmed 

Jabbar Ali 


So 


Do 


AMC V / 723 


Sodagar Mohalla, Ajmer 


Shri Ret man Kar So Munir 

Khan 


LO 


AMC V /724 


Shri Nizamjuddin So Jamalı d 

din 


Do 


AMC, V /725 


Shri Rehman Khan So Munit 
Khan 


Do. 


AMC V /726 
AMC V /727 


Do. 


Shri AbdulGhafoor 
Shi Abdul Aziz Khan 

Bhumuy Khan 


Su 


Do 


· AMC . V /728 


Sları Rehman Khan Sl Muncer 

Khan 


[PARTII-Sec.3 


Do 


AMC V /729 


Shri Chholts Khan Se Noor 
Khan 


Do. . 


AMC. V /730 


Do . 


. 


. 


. 


Do. . 


. 


AMC. V /731 


Do. . 


Do. , 


. 


PART 
II 
. 
. 
SEC 
. 
3 
] 


- 
Do . . 


Bux . 


Shri Habib Khan S /o Meet 

Khan . 
Shri Syed Walls All S /o Imdad 

Ali. 
. Shri Gafoor Khan So Minur. 
. Shri Nazeer Khan . 
- Shri Rahim Bux 

Shri Qamaruddin . 
- Shri Anwar S /O Munnar Khan , 
. Shri Noor Mohd . 
. Shn Mohd. Noorso Almed 

Your Khan 


AMC. V / 732 

Do. . . 
AMC. V1733 

Do . . . 
AMC Plot of Rahun Plot . . 
. AMC . VI, 13 Business Premises 
, AMC. VI / 129 Residential Accommodation 
AMC. VI/197 

Do . , . 
AMC. VI{ 310 

Do. . . 


Do . . 


Do. . . 
. 

Do . . . 
Sodagar Mohalla , Ajmer 

Ahata Mohalla , Ajmer 
- MundriMohalla , Ajmar 
. 

Do. . . 
. 

Do. . . 


Do. , 

- 
Do. . 


Do. . 


AMC . VI/366 


Do. . 


. 


. 


. Shn Abdul Hakim So H72 

Karim Khan . 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
, 
JANUARY 
15 
, 
1955 


Do. 


. 


. 


. 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. , 
Do. 
Do. . 


- AMC, VI/ 36 , 

AMC, VI/ 368 

AMC. VI/ 369 
. AMC. VI/438 


Do. . . 
Do. . . 

Do. . . 
. Agar Mohalla , Ajmer . 


. 


Do. 


Do . . 


. 


. 


Do. . 
Do . . 


. AMC . VI/444 

AMC. VI/486 


Do. . 
DO . 


. 
. 


Do . . 
Do. , 
Do. . 


. 
. 


Shri Nanne Khao So Munir 

Khan , Habib Khan & Others . 
Shri Fazyut Khan S Mustayat 

Khan . 
Shri Abdul Aziz S, Mistry 

Alauddian 
Shri Akbar Khan S /o Kaley 

Khan . 


. 


Do. . 


AMC. VI/490 


Do. 


, 


, 


, 


Do . . 


. AMC. VI/518 


Do . 


. 


. 


. 


Sılawatan Mohalla , Ajmer 


. Shri Wali Mohd . Karim Khan , 


115 


1 


GII 


47 


Ajmer . 


, AMC. VI /519 


Residential Accommodation 


Sılawatan Mohalla , Aimer 


Shri Ahmed Hussain S o Babu 

Ibrahim 


. 


Do. . 
Doil . 


, AMC VI./519A 
. AMC. VI/519B 


Do . . 
Do. . 


. 
. 


Do . . 
Do . . 


. 
. 


Sun Mohd. Usman Slo Gheesuji 
. Shri Abdul Shakoor So Rasul 

Bux . 


Do. 


, AMC. VI/5190 


Do. 


Shri Allah Bus Slo Babu Madar 

Bux . 


Do. . 


AMC.VI/ 519D 
- AMC. VI/520 


Do . . 
Do. . 


. 
. 


. 
. 


Do. . 
Do. . 


, 
. 


Do. . 
Do. , 


. AMC, VI/520A Do. . . . 

Do . . 
AMC.VII/ 142 Residential- cum - Business Pre - Diggi Mohalla , Amer 

mises. 
. AMC. VII/202 Residential Accommodation Panigram Chowk , Ajmer 
AMC.VII/208 

Do. . . . Shoregran Mohalla, Aymer 


S 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,JANUARY151955 


Shn Gheesajı S o Illah Bux. 
. Shri Fazul Hussain Slo Mohd . 

Bux. 
. Shri Ibrahin S /o Abduljee. 
, Shri Noor Alam Sio Allah 

Neer. 
Shri Rahim Bux Slo Allah Bux 
Shri Mohd Ismail So Sber 

Khan . 
. Mst . Sakina WoMohd. Hussain 
. Shn Mohd Noor Khan Slo 

Ahmed Khan 
Shri Noor Nabi So Mohd. 

Noor Khan . 


Do. , 
Do . . 


Do. 


. 


. 


. 


Do. , 
Do. , 


AMC. VII 222 
. AMC. VII/228 


Do . . 
Do. , 


Do. . 


AMC.VII/239 


. 


. 


. Deswall Moballa, Ajmer 


Do 


AMC VII/ 242 


Do . 


, 


, 


, 


Do. , 
De , 


, Shri Gulzar Alam . 

Mst. Chand Bibi Wo Abdul 
Rasbid . 


[PARTII--Sec.3 


Da, 


, AMC. VII/255 


= 


Do. . 


AMC VII/256 


Do. 


Do. . 


== 


· Shri Abdul Samad S o Abdul 

Aziz etc 
· Shri Abdul Samad Slo Abdul 

Aziz etc. 


63 


Do , 


Do. 


AMC VII /257 Business Premises (Notified 

Residential Accommodation 

in Gazette ) 
AMC VII/314 Residential Accommodation 
AMC VII /315 

Do . 


PARTII—SEC.3] 


Do. . 
Do 


. 


Sheesha Khan , Ajmer 

Do. 


. 


Shri Mangal S /o Khuaz Bux. 
Shn Mohd Bashiruddin S / o 

Mohd Imam -uddin . 


AMC. VII 610 


Do. , 
Do. . 


. 
. 


. Mali Mohalla , Ajmer 
. 

Do . 


AMC VII/675 


. 


. 


Shri Mohd Yusaf 
Shri Jurama Khan S o Pustan 

Khan 


- 


AMC VII/732 Residential-cum -Business Pre - Diggi Mohalla , Amer , 

mises . 


Shri Aziz Alam , Abdul Kardar , 

Abdul Walud , Abdul Bası 
So Molvi Asar Aliam 


Do. , 


. AMC. VII /925 Residential Accommodation 


- Trames Way Stn ., Ajmer 


. Shri B Abdul Rehman SO A 

Samad 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,JANUARY15,1955 


AMC.VII /926 Do . . . Do. 

Do 
AMC.VII/973 Business Premises 

Digg Mohalla , Ajmer 

Shri Dulla Mian . 
, AMC VII/976 Residential -cum - Business Pre 

Do. . 

Smt Makhtar Begam Hajjan 
mises. 

Wo Hajji Fakruddin . 
AMC XIV 306 Delepıdated Premises . . Link Road , Mayo College, Ajmer Shn Naunale So Wazır Khan . 
AMC XIV /307 Residential Accommodation 

Do. 

Shri Abdul S /o Naunel Khan 
, AMC XIV /308 Do. . 

Sun Noor Khan So Budha 

Khan . 


Do 
Do. . 


Do. . 


Do. . 
Do. . 


Do . . 


Do. . 


AMC. XIV /309 


Do. . 


. 


. 


Do . . 


Sbn Ameer Mohd. So Rahim 

Bux . 


Do. . 


· AMC.XIV /310 


Do. . 


. 


Do . 


. 


. Shri Noor Khan S/o Budha Khan 


----== LII 


o - 


2 


3 


118 


78 


Ajmer 


AMC.XV, 2411 Residential Accommodation . Link Road , Mayo College , 

Ajmer. 


Ali 


Shn Mohd Ismail So 

Mohd. 
Shri Rahim Bux So 

Inabmad 


Do . . . 


AMC.XVI/ 497 


Plot 


Beechla Road , Ajmer 


Sher 


Do. 


. 


. 


. Shri Allah Bux So Manga , 


Do . 


. 


Do 


. 
. 


Do. . 


. 


Ꭰo 


Do. . 
Do. . 
Do. . 
Do. . 
Do . . 
Do. 
Do. , 
Do . 


. AMC .XVI/ 523 D . P . with plot 
AMC.XVI/ 524 

Do. . . 
. AMC.XVI/525 

Do. , . 
. AMC .XVI/ 526 

Do. . . 
AMC. XVI/ 533 Plot . . 

AMC XVI/536 D . P . 
. AMC XVI/638 Residential Accommodation 
· AMCXVI/638A Do. . . 


Do. , 
Do. . 


. 


Do 
. Shri Muradan . 

Shn Subhan S o Manna. 
. Shri Jummı So Hussain Bux 
. Shn Khaju Bux So Hussain 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,JANUARY15,1956 


Do. . 
Do. . 


. 


. 


Bux 


Do. , 
Do . , 

Do . , 
91 Beawar . 
92 Do. . 

Do. . 
Do . , 


AMC .XVI/642 Do. . . . 

Do . . . . Shri Ali Gafoor Slo Ali Walia . 
AMC. Plot of O Somai . . . . Srinagar Road, Azmer . Shri O Somai. 
. AMC Plot of Mohd . Ishaq on Srinagar Road , . 

Do. , 

. Shn Mohd . Ishaq 
Aimer 
. A /133 K . Residential Accommodation - Nathu -ka -Baia, Beawar . . Shri Pırsha Khan . 
A / 131 K . Do. 

Do. 

Shri Bhurajee. 
Af627 K . 

Do. 

· Near Rly. Grain -shops, Beawar Shri Munshi Rehman Bux . 
A631 K . 

Do. . , Shri Waheed Khan Slo Zafor 

Mohd. 
. 5 /175 

Do. 

· Leharan Mohalla , Beawar Shrimatı Nannu Wo Yakub . 
. 8 /43 - 44 Residential Plot . . Panjabı ſın , Beawar , Shri Gheesa. 


Do. 


(PARTII-SEC. 


Do. , 
Do. 


. 


. 8 /92 


Plot 


98 


Do . . 


. 81551 


PARTII-SEC.3] 


Do . , 


. 


1214 


Do . . 


100 


. 


Do. 

Shrimati Hussaini Vjo Katu 

Kassab . 
Plot . . . . Madar -Hussain Ki- Baghichi, Madar Hussain . 

Beawar. 
Residential Accommodation . Qassaban Mohalla, Beawar . Abdul Aziz S /o Abdullah , 
Do. . . 

Hasbmullah Sio Nathullah , 

Noor Mehd. 
Do. 

Do. . . Shri Hafiz Ibrahim . 
Do . . . Near Church , Beawar . ; Shri Ramjan S /o Shamsuddin . 
Residential- cum - Business Pre- Loharan Mohalla , Beanai . Sbri Yakub So Gullajee,Loher. 

nises . 


1314 


Do . 


IOI 


Do. . 
Do. . 


. 1530 
. 1576 


IO2 


IO3 


1715 


104 


Bo . 


Do. 


De 


Do. . 
Do. . 


. 1716 

2359 


IOS 


Residential Accommodation 


. Sain -ka- Bera, Beawar 


. 


. 


Shri Mohammed Yasin SO 
Mohd . Ismail, 


106 


Do . . 
Do . . 


3678 
. 3806 


107 


Do. . . Shahpura Mohalla, Beawar 
Open Plot ( Notified as R . A . Oden Mohalla, Beawar , 

in Gazette ) . 
Residential Accommodation . Jamalpura , Beawar . . 
Do. 

Do. 
Do. 

Do. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,JANUARY15,1955 


Shri Mold. Kasim . 
. Shri Ajim Mahameedji Slo 

Sultan Silayat. 
. Shri Mohammed Jamal Qureshi. I 

Shri Ali Bhai Mussalman . 


IOS 


109 


3897 -3980 
. 3966 
· 3968 


Do. , 
Do . . 


IIO 


Shri Wali Mohd . Khan Sio 
Abdul Khan Pathan . 


III 


Do. 


3969 


• 


Do . 


II2 


Do. 


3970 


Shri Soofi Mohd. Hussain 

Sayeed . 
Shri Allah Beli Khan Sio 

Mahomed Khan Pathan . 
. Shri Ismail, Fitter. 
. Shri Mahmeed Silawat. 


113 


Do. , 
Do. . 


, 4004 
. 4014 


Do. . 
Do. 


. 
. 


. Sendra Road , Beawar 

Do. . 


. 
. 


114 


II 


120 


1 


2 


3 


115 


Beawar , 


4188 


Residential Accomendation 


. Panjabi Jin , Beawar 


. 


116 


Do. 


Do. . 

. 


4190 
. 4219 


Do. . 

. 


. 
. 


117 


Do . 


IIS 


Do. . 
Do. , 


. 4287 

4312 


Chhawni, Beawar 

Do. . 


Shri Allah Bux So Rahim Bux 

Kassab . 
. Shri Ameer Bux Bhisti . 
. Shri Jamal Mohd . S /o Ali 

Mohd . 

Shui Mohd . Sio Madar Bux . 
. Shri Nathu Khan S /o Wazir 

Khan 
ShriKhuda Bux Slo Shahadin . 
Shri Rahim Bux S /o Maku . 
Moula Bux Slo Sheikh Mohd . 

Ismail. 


119 


. 


I20 


DO . 


4318 
4426 


I21 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,JANUARY15,1955 


I 22 


4439 


123 


Do. . 


. 4440 


Shri Khair Mohd . Slo Mohd . 

Uman . 


124 


Do. , 


. 4442 


Do. 


Do. 


125 


Do. , 


. 4443 


. 


126 


Do . . 


, 4454 


Do. 


. 


127 


4457 


. Shri Bellu Khan S / o Lashkari 

Khan , 
. Shri Abdul Karim S /o Ismail 

Khan 
. Shri Mahrood Musalman , 
. . Sbri Chhota Muslaman Rassab . 
. Shri Khuda Bus Mausalman , 
· Shri Belu Khan . 

Shri Neor Mohd. S/o Mohd. 
Shri Abdul Samad Mistry , 


128 


4471 


129 


Do. , 
Do. . 
Do . , 


130 


4518 
. 4550 
. 

4686 


[PARTII-Sec.3 


Do. 

Do . 
Mewari Gate , Beawar 


Do. 


• 
, 


Do . 


132 Nasirabad 


. 18 


133 


271 
275 


Ꭰ0 
Do. , 
Do . 
Do. , 


PARTII-SEC.3] 


134 


. 


310 


. 


350 
381 


138 


Do. 


• 646 


139 


Do . 


140 


, 647 
. 648 
. 


Do. 


141 


Do. , 


660 


Residential-cum - Business pre - Main Street , Nasirabad . Shri Sher Mohd. Mohd . 
mises. 

Saddique S / o Noor Mohd . 
Do. 

Do . 

Mst . Nasiban Wlo Panna . 
Do . 

Do. . . Shri Allahdin Kaloo . 
Residential Accommodation - Khatawli Mohalla , Nasirabad , Shri Itwari S /o Khaju . 
Do . 

Do . . . Shri Allahdin S /o Khuba . 
Residential- cum -business Pre - DariMohalla , Nasirabad . Shri Amir Ali S /o Allaha Noor. 

mises . 
Residential accommodation - Ram Dayal Mohalla , Nasirabad Shri Abdul Wahab . 
Do. 

Do . 

Do . 
. SabziMandi, Nasirabad . . Shri Abdul Wahab Sjo Gafoor 

Khan . 
, . Shri Abdul Karim S / o Gafoor 

Khan . 
Do . . . . Shri Abdul Wahab S /o Gafoor 

Khan . 

Do . . . Shri K . B . Abdul Ghafoor. 
Business Premises 

Do. , . Shri K . B . AbdulGhafoor , 
(Notified as R . A . in Gazette ). 
Residetntial Accommodation . 

Do. . . Shri K . B . Abdul Ghafoor, 
• DhobiMohalla, Nasirabad , Shri Faquiruddeen Slo 

Shamshuddin etc , 
Do . - Mst . Dujan W /o Nanna Khan , 
Do. 

ShriAzam Sher Khan and Noor 

Khan . 


142 


Do. . 


. 662 


Do. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,JANUARY15,1955 


143 


Do. , 


. 663 


144 


Do . 


719 -719- A 
· 719- B 


145 


Do. · 


146 


Do . , 
Do. , 


719-C 
. 811 


147 


Do. 


148 
149 


Do. . 
Do. . 


. 813 

824 


Do. 


12 


- 
- 


1 


2 


3 


122 


150 


Nasirabad 


· 836 


Residencial Accommodation 


- Raj Narain Road, Nasirabad 


. 


Shri Ahmed Bux Abdullah , 


151 


838 


Plot (but notified as R . A in 

Gazette ). 


Do. 


. 


. ShriMohd . Shaf Sio Mohd . Bus . 


Do. 


152 
153 


Do. , 
Do. . 


889 
. 893- A 


154 


Do. , 


. 898 -898A 


Do. 


: 904 
. 992 - A 


nniin 


. 

. 
Do. . 

. . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,JANUARY15,1955 


1015 


1056 


Residential Accommodation . 

. . Shri Jumman Sio Itrabim . 
Do. 

Do. . . 

Shri Mohd . Yasin S /o Noor 

Mohd . 
Do. . . 

Shri WaliMohd. & Nissar Mohd . 

Sio Ahmed etc . 
Dilapidated Premises . . 

Do. 

Shri Jamaldeen Sio Jamal Bux . 
Business Premises . , Dudia Mohalla . Nasirabad Míst . Jinat. 
Residential Accommodation , 

Do. 

Shri Jumman So Ahmea . 
Residential Accommodation 

Do. . . Shri Gafoor S, o Allaha Nour. 
(Dilapidated Premises ). 
Residential Accommodation . 

Do. 

. . . Mst . Halima. 
. . Phoola Ganj Mohalla, Nasirabad Shri Ali Wahab S o Ali Haq. 

Do . . . Shri Alt Hakim Sło Jumma Bux . 
. Haya ChakkıMohalla , Nasirabad Ghulam Mohd . S /o Mohd Bux. 

Do . . . ShriMohd. Bux S/O Allah Bux , 
. Mahtapura, Nasirabad , . Shri Sulman S/o Kallu . 
Do . 

Shri Gheesa So Kalvo . 
Do. , Shri Suleman Sio Kallu , 


I99 


Do . 


160 


Do. 


Do. 


DO 


161 


62. 


Do. 


· 1057 

1072 -1072A 

1467 
. 1530 - 34 

1520 

1547 
. 1613 

1617 
1622 - 23 


Do. 


. 
Do . 
Do. , 
Do. . 
Do. . 
Do . , 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


[PARTII—Sec.3 


168 


168 


, 


Do. . 
Do. , 
Do. , 


. 1632 
. 1714 

1898 


Do . 

Do. 
Dilapidated Premisess 


170 


. 


Hana ChakkiMohalla, Nasirab Shri Habibullah S, o Rahim Bux . 

Do. . . Shri Abdul So Sikandar, 
Kolli Mohalla, Nasirabad . Shri Noor Mohd. Abbas , 

Nathan Sto Abdullah . 
BadiMandi, Nasirabad . . Khawaj Bux S, Bhikka . 

. . Shri Abdul Shakur S /o Karım 

Bux . 


PARTII—Sec.3] 


171 


Do. , 


. 2305 

2308 -A 


Residential Accommodation 

Do. 


172 


Do. 


173 


Do . . 


. 2309 


Residential- cum - Business Pre 

mises . 


Do . 


. 


. Shri AbdulGaai So Chhota . 


174 


Do. 


2332 
2333 


, Phoola Ganj, Nasuabad , 
Residenatial Accommodation - Phcola Gan ], Nasirabad . 


Do. , 


Do. . 


2343 


Do . 


2363 
. 2381 


Phoola Ganj, Nasirabad 
Badi Mandi, Nasirabad 
Badi Mandi, Nasirabad 


Do. 
Do. . 
Do. , 
Do. . 


Do . 
Dilapidated Premises 
Residential Accommodation 


Shri Mohd . Shafi S /o Noora , 
Shri Mohd . Shafi Slo 

Chhota . 
Shri Rahimbux Baddan . 
Shri Chhota So Abdullah . 
Shri Jamalludin So Iddu . 
Shri Ibrahun Slo Ghulam Mohd. 
Shri Shakoor Slo Abdullah . 
Shri Azimullah So. Wafati. 
Shri Shubrat Slo Karim . 
Shri Faquira S o Hussain . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,JANUARY15,1955 


2393 


I 80 


. 


2409 


Do . 


ISI 


Do. 
Do. 


Badi Mandi, Nasirabad 
Badi Mandi, Nasirabad 
Badi Mand!, Nasirabad 
Badi Mandi, Nasirabad 
Pop Singh Mohalla , Nasirabad 


- 


182 


- 
- 


2409A 

2409B 
. 2611 

2612 


- 


. 


Plot 


18 . 


Do. , 


Residential Accommodation 


Pop Singh Mohalla , Nasirabad 


Shri Man Khan Slo Jorayar 

Khan . 


185 


- 2620 


Business Premises 


Pop Mohalla Nasirabad 


Shri Noor Mohd . So Jumma. 


136 


Do . 


2622 


Do. 


Pop Mohalla , Nasirabad 


Shri Faquira S, o Hussain . 


123 


124 


Residential Accommodation 


Do . 


Do . 


IYO 


187 Nasirabad 
188 Do. . 
18 Do. 

Do. . 
191 Do. , 
192 Kekri . 

Do . . 


, 2769 

2799 

2799A 
. 2801 
. 2802 
. 
. 305 


Do. 


Pop Singh Mohalla , Nasirabad 
Kumar Mohalla , Nasirabad 
Kumar Moballa Nasirabad 
Kumar Mohalla Nasirabad 
Kumar Mohalla , Nasirabad 
Junia Gate , Kekri 
Banjara Mohalla , Kekri 


Do . 


Shri Kallan Khan so Wazir Khan . 
Shri Ghafoor s /o Moodi 
Shri Ab . Gani s/o Dhooni 
Shri Mohd . Umar sto Khaju 
Shri Mohd . Umar s /o Khaju 
Shri Ghulam Hussain s /o Ghani 
Shri Jamal Gulam Hussain Ban 

jara . 
Shri Godali Banjara. 
Shri Qutabuddin Idu Khan 


Do. 


193 


Do . 


Do. . 
Do. . 


326 
. 533 - 34 


Do. 

Banjara , Gali, Kekri 
Residential accommodation Kassai Mohalla , Kekri 

Qum - Business Premises. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,JANUARY15,1955 


Kassai Mohalla, Kek 


Do. . 
Do. . 
Do. . 


Residential accommodation 

Do. 


Do. 


. 537 
. 538 
. 

601 
605 

606 
. 677 

1096 


Do . 
Do. 
Do . 


200 


Shri Gafoor Kassai . 
Shri Nasir Kassai 
Shri Shamshuddin . 
Shri AbdulAziz s /o Suleman 
Shri Shamshuddin s/o Sultan 
Shri Abdul Aziz sło Suleman . 
Shri Shamshuddin . 
Shri Nathoo . 


Kassai Moballa , Kekri 
Kassai Mohalla , Kekri 
Teli Mohalla , Kekri 
Teli Mohalla . Kekri 
Teli Mohalla , Kekri 
Teli Mohalla , Kekri 
Main - Bazar, Kekri 


Do . , 
Do . . 
Do. . 
Do. , 


201 


20 


203 


Do. 
Resideatial- cum - Business 

Premises . 
Residential Accommodation 


204 


. 


Do . . 
D ). , 
Do. , 


1198 
1224- 50 
1361 


Purani Kekri, Kekri 
Manak Chowk, Kekri 


205 


[PARTII—Sec.3 


Mst. Hafizan wlo Khuda Bux . 
Shri Azizuddin , 
Shri Iduq Hajir Bux . 


Do. 
Do. 


206 


Purani Kekri, Kekri 


- 


Do . 


, 


1367 


Purani Kekri, Kekri 


207 
208 


Purani Kekri, Kekri 


Do. . 
Do. . 


Shri Mohd. Yakub . 
Shri Aiohi. Yakub . 
Shri Shamshuddin . 
Slui Mohd . Yakub. 


209 


Puran Kekri, Kekri 


PART 
II 
- 
SEC 
. 
3 
] 


210 


Purani Kekri, Kekri 


- 


. 1367- A 

1369 
· 7369 A 
· 1373 
. 1874 

2137 


-= 


ZIL 


Shri Mustafa . 


- 


Do. . 
Do. . 
Do. . 


212 


Purani Kekri, Kekrı 
Purani Kekri, Kekri 
Puranı Kekri, Kekri 


- 


= 


213 


Shri Azizuddin . 
Shn Niohd. Shafi s o . Allaha 

Voor. 
Stiri Abdul Aziz . 
Shri Shabbuddur. 


Do. . 


· 2174 
, Plot of 

Slababuddin 


Purani Kekri, Kukri 
Outside Ajmeri Gate , Kekri 


Do. , 


- 
- 


216 


Do. . 


. 


Plot of 
Abdul Rehman 


Purani Kekri . Kekri 


Shri Abdul Rchman . 


217 


Do . 


Agency Deoli , Dcoli 


218 


Do. 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
, 
JANUARY 
15 
, 
1955 


= 


Do. 


Doolt . 
Do. · 

. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. . 


219 


27 
· 32 

100 

145 
. 159 
· 742 


Mohd. Ishaq . sio Akbar Khan . 
Shri Bundu , 
Mst . Zohara w /o Jaffar Ali 
Shri Nasir Khan s/ o Mir Khan . 
Shri Munir sto Roshan . 
Shri Abdul Shakoor. 


220 


Bundi Agency , Deoli 
Zehare Agency , Deoli 
Mahajan Mohalla , Deoli 
Munir Agency , Dcoli 
Mahajan Mohalla , Deoli 


Do, 


22I 


Do . 


322 


(No. 10 ( 10 )- S. B ./54 ). 


125 


1 26 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15, 1965 [ PART II — Sec . 3 
= 

- 

- - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - 
New Delhi, the 15th January 1955 
S . R . O . 160 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 16 
of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation Act, 1954 (44 of 1954 ) . 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri K , S . Kane, Assistant Settlement 
Commissioner as Managing Officer for the Custody , management and disposal of 
that portion of the compensation pool which consists of Government built houses 
in Delhi. 

( No. 43 ( 15 ) SBI/ 541 
M , L , PURI, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 8th January 1953 


S . R . O . 161. — In exeicise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Evacuee 
Interest ( Separation ) Act , 1951 (LXIV of 1951 ) , the Central Government hereby 
directs that the following further amendments shall be made in the Evacuee 
Interest ( Separation ) Rules , 1951 , namely : 


In rule IID of the said Rules, in clause ( 1 ) of sub -rule ( 9 ) 

(a ) for the figure " 25 per cent." the figure " 10 per cent." shall be substituted . 
( b ) after the word Sale the words either in cash or by cheque shall be 
inserted . 

[No. 52 ( 135 ) /54 - Prop .I. ] 
L . B . MATHUR , Under Secy. 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 


TMZ [ 


. , 


nr 1053 


S . R . O . 162 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Indian 
Telegraph Act, 1885 (XIII of 1885 ), and in supersession of rules 13 to 23 (both 
inclusive ) of and the first and second schedules to , the Indian Wircless Telegraph 
Rules , 1949 , the Central Government hereby makes the following rules , namely : 

1. Short title and commencement. - - ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Indian 
Wireless Telegraph ( Commercial Radio Operators Certificates of Proficiency and 
License to operate Wireless Telegraphy ) Rules , 1954 

( 2 ) They shall come into force on the 1st day of April 1956 . 


2. Definitlons. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires , 
( 1 ) Convention means the International Telecommunication Convention , 

Buenos Aires , 1952, for the time being in force including the Tele 
graph Regulations, the Telephone Regulations, the Radio Regulations 
and the Additional Radio Regulations, made thereunder but does 
not include any portion of the said Convention or the said Regulations 
in respect of which the Central Government may , from time to time, 

make any reservations ; 
( ii ) wireless telegraphy or radio telegraphy includes wireless or radio 

telegraphy or telephony Or both , as the context in each case may 

require , 
3 . Categories of certificates and licences. - On the result of an examination 
which may, from time to time, be held by it or by an officer empowered by it in 
this behalf, the Central Government may grant the following categories of certi 
ficates of proficiency in wireless telegraphy and licences to operate it, namely : 

Category 1 - Radio Telegraph Operator Certificates and Licences . 
( i) First Class Radio Telegraph Operator s Certificate and Licence; 
( ii) Second Class Radio Telegraph Operator s Certificate and Licence ; 
( iii ) Special Class Radio Telegraph Operator s Certificate and Licence , 


127 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


PART II SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Category II -- Radio Telephone Operator s Certificates and Licences : 
( 10 ) Radio Telephone Operator (General ) Certificate and Licence; 
( v ) Radio Telephone Operator (Restricted ) Certificate and Licence . 


4 . Dual holding of licences . — Except as otherwise provided by the Central 
Government, no person may hold more than one Radio - telegraph Operator licence 
and one Radio -telephone Operator licence at the same time. 


5 . Eligibility for admission to examination . - No person shall be eligible for 
admission to an examination held under these rules for the grant of a certifcate of 
proficiency in radio telegraphy or radio telephony 

( a ) unless such person is, 

(1) a citizen of India, and 
( ii) above the age of eighteen years, in case he is a candidate for a first 

class radio telegraph operator s certificate ; 
( b ) if his Commercial Radio Operator s licence granted under any rules in 

force immediately before the commencement of these rules has been 
suspended or he is involved in any proceeding connected with the 
cancellation of any such licence or any other alleged violation of 
terms of the Convention or any provision of these rules: 


Provided that where the Central Government is satisfied , after such inquiry 
as it thinks fit, that it is expedient so to do in the public interest, it may, by general 
or special order , direct that the provision of sub - clause ( 1 ) of clause ( a ) of this 
rule shall not apply in the case of any person or class of persons , specified in the 
order . 


6 . Applications. - An application for permission to appear at an examination 
for the grant of a Certificate of Proficiency shall be made to the Central Govern 
ment or any officer empowered by it in this behalf , in the form as at Annexure I 
to these rules, together with all the subsidiary forms and documents duly Alled 
in and completed in all respects . 


7 . Fees for examination . A candidate for admission to an examination for the 
grant of a certificate of proficiency shall pay such fee as the Central Government 
may from time to time direct : 

Provided that where the Central Government is satisfied , after such inquiry 
as it thinks fit , that it is expedient so to do in the public interest, it may, by. 
yenerul or special order , exempt from the operation of this rule any candidate 
or class of candidates specified in the order . 


8 . Examination , l he exanination for the award of a certificate of proficiency 
shall be held in accordance with the terms of the Convention and as detailed in 
Annexure II to these rules and the Central Government shall from time to time 
notify the place at which and the date on which such examination shall be held 
and publish the detailed syllabus in respect of the examination held for the grant 
of different classes of certificates . 


9 . Secrecy of correspondence . - - Every holder of a certificate of proficiency shall 
be bound by the declaration made by him in his application for admission to the 
examination that he shall observe secrecy of correspondence . 


10 . Validity of licences . - A " icence to operate " endorsed in the certificate of 
proficiency shall be valid for a period of Ave years from the date of issue : 


Provided that on the expiry of the initial period of the validity of such licence, 
it may be renewed for a period of three years at a time if the holder applies for 
it, and 

( i) pays such fees as the Central Government from time to time direct: 
(11) has a total experience of not less than 3 months within 3 years prior to 

the date of application ; or 


128 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


[ PART II - SEC. 3 


(111 ) satisfies the Central Government by re - examination or otherwise that 

he still possesses all of the qualifications specifled in his certificate . 
Explanation . For the purposes of this rule , the expression experience means 
the experience gained at a mobile station in the Maritime or Aeronautical Mobile 
Service As adequate for a Radio Officer or Wireless Operator or experience gained 
as an operator of Radio - telegraph apparatus at a Radio - telegraph station main 
tained on land for communication with mobile stations, in the Maritime or 
Aeronautical Service , as being appropriate w the licence, which is sought to be 
renewed , 


11 . Issue of duplicate or replacement certificates and licences. ( 1 ) An operator 
whose certificate or licence has been lost , mutilated or destroyed shall immediately 
notify the same to the Central Government. A properly executed application 
for duplicate shall be made to the Central Government embodying a statement of 
the circumstances involved in the loss, mutilation or destruction of the certificate 
or licence for which a duplicate is required . If the certificate or licence has been 
lost, the applicant must state that reasonable search has been made for it, and 
further , that in the event it be found , either the uriginal or the duplicate shall be 
returned for cancellation . 


( 2 ) The Central Goycrnment may issue duplicate copies of any certificate o 
licence and prescribe any fee therefor. 


( 3 ) The holder of a certificate or licence, whose name is legally changed may 
make application for replacement document in the new name by submitting a 
properly executed application accompanied by documentary evidence of the legality 
of the name change, 


12 . Discipline of Operators. — ( 1 ) If the holder of a certificate or licence is proved 
in the opinion of the Central Government wilfully or negligently to have failed 
to comply with the provisions of the Convention , or of these rules or of any 
regulations lawfully applicable to him in respect of wireless telegraphy or of 
wireless apparatus or the lawful orders of the master or person lawfully in charge 
of the station in which he is employed , the Central Government may endorse , 
suspend , or cancel the licence. 

( 2 ) The Central Government may at any time require the holder of a certi 
ficate of proficiency to produce the same and the holder shall comply with such 
requisition . 


( 9 ) The Central Government may at any time require the holder of a certi 
ficate of proficiency or licence to be re - examined in order to test his knowledge and 
ability and may, as a result of such examination , endorse , suspend or cancel the 
licence. No fce shall be chargcable for such examination , 


13 , Saving of certificates issued under the oarlier rules and in force at the date 
of commonçoment of these rules . — Nothing in these rules shall be deemed to affect 
the operation of any Certificate of Competency in wireless telegraphy or any 
licence to operate it , which has been granted or issued by any competent authority 
under the Indian Wireless Telegraph Rules, 1929 or the Indian Wireless Telegraph 
Rules, 1933 or the Indian Wireless Telegraph Rules , 1949, as the case may be, and 
was in force immediately before the commencement of these rules, and notwith 
standing anything contained in these rules, every such certificate or licence shall, 
unless renewed for a further period under these rules , bę valid for a period of six 
months after such commencement and shall be subject to the provisions of these 
rules in respect of all other matters. 


14 . Recognition of certificates tesued by other countries . — The Central Govern 
ment may recognise , subject to any conditions it may prescribe from time to time, 
certificates of proficiency in radio telegraphy issued by a competent authority in 
any other country as a certificate of proficiency of the same class issued by it . 


15 . Power to delegate . The Central Government may, by order notified in the 
official Gazette , direct that any power exercisable by it under these rules may 
also be exercised in such cases and subject to such conditions, if any , as may be 
specified in the order by such officer or authority as may be specified therein , 


PART 11 - sec. 3) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 16 , 1955 


129 


- - - - - - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


ANNEXURI 


FORM OF Apr 104TION 


(See 


rule 


6 ) 


Form of application for admigsion to Fixamination for a certificate of Proficzony in radio 

Telegaph /radio -telephony (Sec rule 7 ) 


- - 


- - 


- 


Name 


Surname 


1. Full name of applicant (in Bluck letrers , 


(c ) . . . . . . 


. . . feet . . . . . . . . 


inches 


2 . Description of applicant 

(a ) Height 
(6) Colour of eyes 
(c) Colour of hair 
(d ) Complexion 
(o ) Mark of identification . 


3 . Postal Address in full. 


4. Date of birth . 


5. Place of birth 


6. Are you a citizen of India by birth and /or by 

domicile 1 


LELA 


7. Nanc of the State to which you belong . 


+ 


8 . Father s Name and Address * 

* If dead , state last address. 


Litutt 


9 Addiess to which order for examination should 

be yont. 


IO . Address to which the Certificate of Proficiency 

should be forwarded in case the candidate 
is successful in the cxamination . 


11. Name and address of institution , if any, in 

which the candidate was trained . 


130 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15, 1955 


[ PART 11 - Sec. 3 


2 . Particulars of Certificates of Competency , if any, already held by the applicant. 


Class Category of Certificate 


Date of issue 


By whom issued 


Th 


13 . The service for which the certificate is required , 

where applicable . 


MARITIME/AERONUTICAL 


14 . Particulars of examinations (if any) 1aken for Certificates of Competency : 
Mace at which examined Date und year of Class / Category of Result 

cxamination i Cretificate 


M 


15 . State the name of the Treasury or Bank from which you submit treasury receipt and the 
number and date of the ticarury receipt. 


Nanse of the Treasury /Bank 


Numher of Tscasury Receipt ! 


Date 


Value 


16 . No. of copies of photographs attached 


17 . References attached from : 


1 . Narne 

Occupation of Position 
Address 


2 . Name 

Occupution or position 
Address. 


I hereby certify that the chove particulars are correct and apply for admission to an cxami 

nation for . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Certificate of Proficiency in relia - telegraphy/ radio 

telephony 
* I declare that I an a citizen of India 

by birth naturalisation in 
. ... 


. . . . ....... . 


... . . . . . . 


. . . . . . . . . . domiciled in 


India . 


Signature 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


Atc . . . . . . 


. 


PART 11 _ SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 

130 
SRI 
Declaroion of Secrecy in the operation of Wireless Apparotius 

. . . . . . . . . do solemnly and sincerely declare that I wi 
hot impropeily divulge to any person thc purport of any cusage which I may transmit or receive 
hy mcens of any wireless apparatus operated by me or which may come to my knowledge in con 
nection with the operation of the said apparatus. 

Signature of Declarant 


1 . . . . 


divulge 10 ani 


Witness . . . . . . . . . 
Date . . . . . 


Date . . . . 


Addres . . . . . . . . . . ... ............ 


. 


I endose the following documents with this application : 


( ü ) 


(iii) 


( iv ) 


Signature 


of 


Applicant. . . . . . . 


ate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


. . . . 


ANNEXURE II 


General inforination regarding the examinations for the award of Certificates 
of Proficiency in Radio Telegraphy and Radio Telephony , with effect from 

1st April , 1956 . 

Part A - GENERAL 
1 . General, - ( i) The examinations for the award of Certificates of Proficiency 
in Radio Telegraphy and Radio Telephony are intended for persons who con 
template employment and careers as radio officers in the Mercantile Marine or in 
Civil Aviation . 

( ii ) The Central Government is not directly responsible for the training of the 
candidates appearing for these examinations. There are a number of wireless 
schools and institutions mustly owned and run by private individuals which offer 
to train candidates for these examinations The Central Government does not 
uneralse any supervision over the tuji on at these schools or institutions. They 
may in certain cases declare the suitability of the type of apparatus used in the 
schools for training for these examinations and beyond this they have no 
responsibility for the running of these schools or institutions. 

( 111 ) The Central Government is also not responsible for either the employ 
ment of ar for securing cmployment for the candidates who obtain these certi 
ficates of proſiciency in radio - telegraphy and radio - telephony . 

( iv ) There is no m nimum educational qualification to be satisfied for appear 
ing at these examinations but some schools insist on certain minimum . It should 
however , be emphasised that the syllabus for these cxaminations is such as would 
require a sound educational qualification at least up to the matriculation standard 
with mathematis and physics as subjects , for a candidate to efficiently study . 
them . Particular attention of intending candidates is , therefore , drawn to the 
necessity for a good general education as a pre - requisite for attempting these 
examinations. 

( v ) Intending candidates for these examinations are advised to read carefully 
the provisions of the Indian Wireless Telegraphy ( Commercial Radio Operatorg . 
Certificates of Proficiency in Radio Telegraph and Radio Telephony and licence 
to operate ) Rules , 1954 . 

2 . The following 6 classes of examinations are held : 
I. Radio Telegraphy 

1. First Class Operator s Certificate . 
2 . Second Class Operator s Certificate . 
3 . Special Class Operator s Certificate. 


132 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1956 


( PART II - SEC, 3 


II. Radio Telephony 

1 . Radio Telephone Operator (General) . 

2. Radio Telephone Operator (Restricted ). 
III, Special examination for conversion of Second Class Certificates into First 
Clags . 

8 . Qualifications. 

3 .1 . First Class Certificate . - ( 1 ) Sending and receiving correctly by ear ( 1 ) 
plain language at a speed of 25 words per minute and ( 2 ) mixed code groups at a 
speed 20 groups per minute . Sending and receiving correctly messages by 
telephone; 

(b ) Detailed knowledge of the Regulations applying to radio - communications, 
of the documents relating to the charges for radio - communications and of the 
provisions of the convention for the Safety of Life at Sea which relate to radio ; 

( c ) Knowledge of the general geography of the world especially the principal 
maritime and air navigation routes and the most important tele - communication 
routes ; 

( d ) Knowledge of the general principles of electricity , of the theory of radio 
and of the adjustment and practical working of various types of radio - telegraph 
and radio - telephone apparatus used in mobile service , including apparatus used for 
radio direction - finding and the taking of direction - finding bearings . Geng 
knowledge of the principles of operation of other apparatus generally used iv . 
radio -navigation ; 

( e ) Theoretical and practical knowledge of the operation and maintenance of 
apparatus such as motor generators , storage batteries etc ., used in the operation 
and adjustment of the radio - telegraph , radio -telephone and radio direction 
finding apparatus mentioned in ( d ) above. Practical knowledge necessary to 
repair with the means ordinarily available on board , damage which may occur to 
the radio - telegraph , radio - telephone and radio direction - finding apparatus duriog 
à voyage; 

( ) Satisfactory knowledge of the English language ; and 

( ) Knowledge of the special provisions governing the aeronautical fixed , 
mobile and radio - navigation service ( for aeronautical mobile service only .) 


3.2 . Second Class Certificate .-- ( a ) Sending and receiving correctly by ear -- 

( 1) plain language at a speed of 20 words per minute ; and 
( ii) mixed at a speed of 16 groups per minute ; sending and receiving 

messages correctly by telephone. 
( b ) Knowledge of the Regulations applying to radio communications, of the 
documents relating to charges for radio - communications and of the provisions of 
the Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea which relate to radio ; 

( c ) Knowledge of the general geography especially the principal maritime and 
air -navigation routes and the most important tele - communication routes ; 

( d ) Elementary theoretical and practical knowledge of electricity and of radio , 
knowledge of the adjustment and practical working of the various types of 
radio -telegraph and radio - telephone apparatus used in the mobile service , includ 
ing apparatus used for radio direction -Anding and the taking of direction finding 
bearings as well as elementary knowledge of the principles of operation of the 
other apparatus in general used for radio -navigation ; 

( e ) Elementary theoretical and practical knowledge of the operation and main 
tenance of apparatus , such as motor generators, storage batteries, etc ., used in the 

operation and adjustment of the radio - telegraph , radio - telephone and radio 
direction - finding mentioned in ( d ) above. Practical knowledge sufficient for 
effecting repairs in the case of minor damage which may occur to the radio - tele 
graph , radio - telephone and radio direction - finding apparatus during a voyage, 
with the means ordinarily available on board ; and 

( f) Satisfactory knowledge of the English language. 
3.3 Special Class Certificate.- ( a ) Sending and receiving correctly by ear . 

(i) plain language at a speed of 20 words per minute ; and 

(ii) mixed code groups at a speed of 18 groups per minute ; 
(b ) Sending and receiving correctly messages by telephone; 

( c ) Practical knowledge of the operation of radio - telegraph and radio 
telephone apparatus; 


PART II- - SEC, 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


133 


( d ) General knowledge of the Regulations and procedure applying to radio 
Telegraph and radio - telephone communications and specifcally of that part of 
those Regulations which relates to the Safety of Life ; and 

( e ) Satisfactory knowledge of the English language. 


3.4 . Radio -telephone Operator s Certificate (General). - ( a ) Sending and realu . 
ing correctly megsages by telephone ; 

(b ) Knowledge of the elementary principles of radio - telephony ; 

(c ) Detailed knowledge of the practical operation and adjustment of radio 
telephone apparatus; 

( d ) Detailed knowledge of the Regulations and procedure applying to radio 
1elephone communications and specifically of that part of those regulations which 
relates to the Safety of Life ; 

( e ) Satistactory knowledge of the English language; and 

( 1 ) Knowledge of the special provisions governing the aeronautical, fixed , 
moblle and radio -navigation services ( for aeronautical service only ) . 


3.5 Radio -telephone Operator s Certi } cate (Restricted ). - (a ) Sending and receiv . 
ing correctly messages by telephone; 
. (b ) Practical knowledge of the Regulations and procedure applying to radio 

phone communications specifically of that part of those regulations which 
relates to the Satety of Life ; 

( c ) Satisactory knowledge of the English language ; and 

(d ) Knowledge of the special provisions governing aeronautical, fixed , mobile 
and radio -navigation services ( for aeronautical service only ) . 


4 . Scope of authority to operate . The holders of the various types of Certificates 
of Proficiency may , subject to their satisfying other conditions laid down by 
Government operate mobile stations as shown below : 
( 1) First Class Radio Telegraph Operator s Certificate .-- - The service of any 

ship or aircraft radio station , 
(li) Second Class Radio Telegraph Operator s Certificate . The service of any 

ship station . 
NOTE -- - Dlfference between the First and Second Class Certibcate in the 

Maritime Mobile Service is in the authority to become the Chiet 

Radio Officers of certain categories of ship stations. 
(ui) Special Class Radio Telegraph Operator s Certificate , Service of ships 

for which a radio telegraph installation is not compulsory : as well as 
the radio telephone service of ship stations for which only the restrict 

ed radio telephone operator s certifcate is required . 
( iv ) Radio Telephone Operator s Certificate (General). - Service of any ship 

or aircraft station when the installation is used solely for telephony 
provided the power in the antenna of the unmodulated carrier does 
not exceed 100 watts ; or the power in the antenna of the unmodulated 
carrier does not exceed 500 watts in cases where the operation of 
the transmitter requires only the use of simple external switching 
devices excluding all manual adjustments of frequency determining 
elements and the stability of the frequencies of which is maintained 
by the transmitter itself within the limits of tolerance specified in the 

Radio Regulations. 
( v ) Radio Telephone Operator s Certificate (Restricted ).- -- The service of any 

ghip or aircraft when the installation is used solely for telephony 
provided that the power in the antenna of the unmodulated carrier 
does not exceed 50 watts ; or the power in the antenna of the 
unmodulated carrier does not exceed 250 watts in cases where the 
operation of the transmitter requires only the use of simple external 
switching devices excluding all manual adjustments of frequency 
determining elements and the stability of the frequencies of which is 
mainta [ned by the transmitter itself within the limits of tolerance 

specified in the Radio Regulations. 
5 . Credentials of Candidates. - A candidate before being permitted to take any 
examination is required to furnish the following : - 
(i) Evidence of date of birth (in the case of candidates for the First Class 

certificate only ) ; and 


134 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 [PART 11 - Sec . % 
= = 

-- - - 

- - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - 
( ii ) Letters from two persons resident in India but not related to the candi 

date testifying to his character and nationality and to whom references 

can be made , 
6 . Fees , — (1) A candidate wishing to take an examination should pay the fees 
I propriate to the examination concerned , as notifed by the Government of India 
from time to time. 

( 1 ) The required exurnination fee should be deposited in a Government 
Treasury or in a branch of the Imperial Bank of India under the Account head 
" XLVI-Misc . Recelpts of Wireless Planning and Co -ordſnation Organisation 
examination fees" . (Amounts deposited at Bombay , Calcutta , Delhi and Madras 
should be deposited in the Reserve Bank of India in place of Imperial Bank of 
Judia ). 

( iil ) Fecs paid for one examination will not be adjusted towards any other 
examination and will not be refunded except in very exceptional circumstances . 

(lv ) Candidates appearing for more than one examination should pay separate 
fees for each of the examinations concerned 

7 . Applications.--- ( i) A candidate wishing to take an examination should submit 
his application to the Wireless Adviser to Government, Ministry of Communications, 
New Delhi, in the prescribed form . He should also enclose 

( 1 ) documents mentioned in para . 5 : 
( 2 ) treasury receipt mentioned in para 6 ; 
( 3 ) two unmounted passport size copies of the photographs signed and 

dated on the front; 
(4 ) specimen signatures in the form ; and 
( 5 ) in the case of candidates for the special conversion examination , evidence 

of their past experience. 
No application would be considered if It does not rontain any of the documents 
listed above or has been received after the prescribed date . 

( ii) A candidate appearing for more than one examination should subunit 
separate applications for each of the examinations, 


8 . Adizission Card , etc .- - Every candidate who has been admitted for an 
examination would be furnished with a card of admission to the examination 
which will specify the date , time and place of the examination , 


9 . Eraminations . -- The exumination consists of the following Sections : 
Section 1. - Written papers -- 
( i) Technical Theory . - - (For the First Class Certificate , this Section consists 

of two papers , for the Second Class one paper and none for the other 

Classes ) 
(iu) Regulations and Procedure. - ( One paper for First and Second Class 

Certifirates and none for the other Classes ). 
Section 2 .- Morse : Sending and Receiving . 
Section 3 . - Practical. -- 

(1) Commercial working ( W / T and /or R / T ); 

( 11 ) Practical examination on apparatus , 
The differences in each of the Sections for the various classes of the examination 
is explained in the syllabus, 


10 . Syllabus. - The detailed syllabus for each Section of the examination and 
for rach class of rertificate is given in detail in Part B . The detalls of how 
the examinations are conducted are also explained therein . 


11 . General Procedure at Examinations. — The general procedure at examinations 
would normally be as follows : 

The written paper sections are first completed . 
On the following days , the examination proceeds with the other sections of 

the examination , 
The results of the examinations are usually notified within a fortnight 

after the completion of the examination or as soon as possible after 
the same. 


PART 11 Sec. 3 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15, 1955 


135 


12 . Exemptions in Subjects . The examination would be considered in two 
parts , namely 

Part I. -- Section 1 of Para 9 ; and 
Part II. - Sections 2 and 3 of Para 9 , 

Credit for passing any one of the Parts can be carried to a subsequent 
examination for a specified period . In the case of Part I, the period is one year 
and for Part II, six months. Thus, 
( i) a candidate may , at his option , take either the full examination or one 

of the Part I & II at a time. 
( ii) if he passes the morse and practical tests (Part II ) only , he may pass 

the written tests within six months and complete the cntire examina 

tion ; and 
( jii) if he passes the written tests (Part I ) only , he may pass the Morse and 

Practical tests within one year and complete the entire examination . 
The fee payable for each part examination taken as above would be notifed 
by Government of India from time to time, 

13 . Choice of service for First Class Certificate . - A candidate appearing for the 
First Class Certificate may choose either the Maritime of Aeronautical Mobile 
Service in which he wants to become a radio operator . His examination woula 
be confined to the appropriate parts as given in the syllabus. His certificate 

would be endorsed for either the Maritime or the Aeronautical Service as appro 
Late . 

A candidate may, at his option be examined for both the services , on payment 
of the appropriate fees . Alternatively , he may first qualify for any one service 
and subsequently for the other. In that case , he would be required to pass only 
those parts of the examination special to the second service . He would be 
required to pay the examination fees leviable for a part examination , 

14 . Conversion of Second Class Certificate into First Class. 

14 . 1. A holder of the Second Class Radio Telegraph Operator s Certificate may 
appear for Part II only of the examination and obtain a First Class Radio Tele 
graph Operator s Certificate provided 
he has 12 months total experience within 3 years immediately preceding 

the date of application for such examination . 
Experience for this purpose means experience at a mobile station in the 

Maritime or Aeronautical Mobile Service , as a radio officer or wire 
less operator or experience as an operator of the radio telegraph 
Apparatus at a radio telegraph station maintained on lund for 
communication with Mobile Stations in the Maritime or Aeronautical 

Mobile Service 
14 .2 . Candidates for this examination inust furnish satisfactory evidence of 
their experience as defined in Para 14. 1 . 

14 . 3. Fees as for the First Class Certificale examination should be paid . 


15 . Results of the eramination - - The marks obtained by each candidate in the 
- subjects at which he has appeared at the examination would be forwarded to 
him as soon as possible after the puhlication of the results of the examination . 
No requests for revaluation of any poper would he entertained . 

PART B - FORM OF EXAMINATION AND SYLLABUS. 
1. Classes of rertificates. 

11. The following classes of Certificates of Proficiency in Radiotelegraphy and 
Radiotelephony are awarded on the results of these examinations : - 
( a ) Radiotelegraphy : 

(1) First Class Radio Telegraph Operator s Certificate 
(ity Second Class Radio Telegraph Operator s Certificate. 

( iii ) Special Class Radio Telegraph Operator s Certificate. 
(b ) Radiotelephony : 
(iv ) Radio Telephone Operator s (General) Certificate 
(v ) Radio Telephone Operator s (Restrieterl) Certificate. 


136 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 [PART II - SEC , 3 
- - - - - -- - - 
2 . Eraminations. - - 

2 . 1 . The examinations will be conducted in English and in accordance with 
the International Telecommunication Convention . 

3. First and Second Class Radio Telegraph Operator s Certificate .--- 
3 . 1, The examination consists of the following Sections : 
Section 1.- Written Papers . 
( i) Technical Theory ; viz ., Magnetism , Electricity , Radio Theory and 

Standard Radio installations; and 
( ii ) Regulations and traffic procedure . 
Section 11. - Morse. 

(1) Receiving, plain language and code; and 

( 11) Sending , plain language and code. 
Section II1 , - Practical, 

(i) Commercial working ; and 
( ii) Practical test on standard Radio apparatus and ancillary equipment 

commonly used in the Maritime and / or Aeronautical Mobile Service. 
3.2 . Form and details of the examination .- - 
3.2.1. Section 1.-- Writtetn Papers. 
(1) Technical Theory : 

(a ) First Cla88 : 2 papers as below : 
I Paper on Magnetism , Electricity and Radio Theory according to the 

syllabus at Appendix I. 
II Paper on Standard Radio installations in use in the Maritime or Aero 

nautical Mobile Services According to the syllabus at 

Appendix II . 
The I paper is compulsory for all candidates . It is of 9 hours duration , The II 
paper will be separate for the Maritime Mobile and Aeronautical Mobile Services 
and candidates will be required to take the one appropriate to their choice of 
Service. It is of 2 hours duration , ( A candidate may at his option take the 
papers for both the Services ). 

Each paper carries a maximum of 100 marks. Candidates must secure 60 per 
cent. or a total of 132 marks in both the papers together for each Service for a 
pass . 

Candidates are expected to have a comprehensive knowledge both of the 
fundamental principles and their general application with special reference to 
the apparatus in use in the Mobile Services , 
(b ) Second Class : 
One paper of 3 hours duration on Magnetism , Electricity , Radio Theory 

and Standard Radio Installations in use in the Maritime Service . 

The detailed syllabus is given at Appendix I and IIA . 
Candidates are expected to have a general knowledge of the fundamental 
principles and their application and a sound knowledge of the apparatus used in 
The Maritime Mobile Service. 

The maximum marky for the paper are 100 and candidates must secure 50 
Inarks for a pass . 

( ii) Regulations and Traffic Procedure 
( a ) First Class : 
One paper according to the syllabus given at Appendix III. 
The paper will consist of 3 Sections 
Section 1 -- International Regulations common to both Maritime Mobile and 

Aeronautical Mobile Services : 
Section 2. - Traffic Procedure special to the Maritime Mobile Service ; and 
Section 3 .-- Traffic Procedure special to the Aeronautical Mobile Service . 
All candidates must compulsorily answer Section 1 and choose one of the 

Sections 2 and 3 as appropriate to their choice of Service. Candidates 


PART II - SEÇ. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 

137 
- -- -- -- - - - - - - - = = - - - - - - 

- - 

- - - 
taking the examination for both the Services should answer all the 

Sections. 
The paper is of 2 hours duration for any one Service and 3 hours when all 

the Sections are attempted . 
The maximum number of marks is 100 for cach Service and candidates 

must secure 66 per cent. for a pass , 
( 10 ) Second Class : 
One paper according to the syllabus at Appendix III (Maritime Mobile 

Service only ). 
The paper is of 2 hours durution . The naxınium number of marks is 100 

and candidates must secure 50 per cent for a pass . 
3. 2.2 . Section 11. — Morse. 


(i ) Morse Receiving : 
In the Morse Receiving Tests candidates are required to receive for three 

Consecutire minutes for each test at the prescribed speed trom a 
double head -gcar telephone receiver ordinarily used for radio tele 
graph reception , international morse code signals from a valve 
oscillator keyerl either manually or automatically . A short practice 
piece may be sent at the prescribed speed before the start of the 
Artual test. Candidates will NOT be allowed more than one attempt 
in cach test. The test may be written in ink or pencil hut must 
be in long hand and legible . Bad handwriting will render a candi 

Fate liable to disqualification . The use of tyrewriters is not permitteri, 
( a ) First Class. 

Plain language : ( Speed 25 words per minute ). 
The test piece will consist of a passage of 375 letteis , five letters counting as 

one word . 
More than 3 errors will disqualify a candidate. 

Code (Speed 20 groups per minute ). 
The test piece will consist of 60 groups of five characters each , a figure or 

punctuation mark being counted as two characters . 
Il is recommended that the code test be written in block capitals . More 

than 3 errors will disqualify a candidate . 
(b ) Second Class : 

Plain language : ( Speed 20 words per minute). 

The test piece will consist of 300 letters , five letters counting as one word . 
More than 2 crrors will disqualify a candidate. 

Code : (Specd 16 groups per minute ). 
The test piece will consist of 48 groups of five characters each , a figure or 

punctuation mark being counted as two characters , 
It is recommended that the code test be written in block capitals . More 

than 2 errors will disqualify a candidate . 
( ii ) Morse Sending: 
In the Morse Sending Test , candidates are required to send on an ordinary 

morse key for three consecutive minutes for each test, at not less 
than the prescribed speed . A short practice piece may be allowed 
before the actual test. Candidates will NOT be allowed more than 
one attempt in each test. All errors during sending must be 
corrected . Uncorrected errors will disqualify a candidate in this 
test. Particular attention will be paid to the formation and spacing 
of signals ; bad formation and / or spacing will render a candidate 

liable to disqualification . 
( a ) First Class: 
Plain language : Test pieces will be similar to those for receiving tests . 
Code : 


138 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15, 1935 [PART IISec . 3 
= - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - = = = = 

- -- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - - - - 
( b ) Second Class : 

Plain language : Test pieces will be similar to those for receiving tests . 

Code: 
3. 2.3. Section III- Practical 
( i) Commercial working: 

This test will be conducted both by radiotelephony and radiotelegraphy . The 
general method of conducting the tests will be so arranged as to somewhat repre 
sent actual working conditions. Background noise simulating actual working 
conditions may be injected into the circuit during the tests 

Candidates will be expected to know and make use of common codes and proce 
dure signals appropriate to the Service concerned and keep a log of the com 
munications made during the tests . 

Candidates will be required to carry out communications associated with mobile 
and / or base stations. Typical examples of what the candidates are expected to 
carry out are : 
Preparation of messages for transmission - - exchange of traffic - - priorities in 

trafflc - requesting D / F assistance obtaining meteorological inform 
tion — position reports - distress , urgency , safety and D / F traffic pro 

cedures 
Thic Radiotelephony Test will be conducted over a synthetic R / T circuit. Can 
didates will be required to use the phonetic alphabet and general procedure for 
R / T working 

The Radiotelcgraphy Test will be conducted on a valve oscillator circuit in the 
international morse code at the prescribed speeds. Candidates will be required to 
know and use the Q code. 
( a ) First Class — The tests will be conducted separately for the Maritime 

and Aeronautical Mobile Services , Candidates will choose the Ser 
vice appropriate to them or both at their option . Time allowed for 
the tests is approximately thirty minutes The maximum number of 
marks is 100 for each Service and candidates should obtain 66 per 

cent for a pass . 
( b ) Second Class . — Thc tests will be only for the Maritime Mobile Service . 
Time allowed for the tests is approximately 30 minutes . The maximum 

number of marks is 100 and candidates should obtain 50 per cent. 

for a pass 
( ii ) Practical test on apparutus: 

This test will be conducted on radiotelegraph and radiotelephone apparatus 
and ancilliary equipment, testing instruments etc , commonly in use in the Maritime 
and / or Aeronautical Mobile Service, as appropriate , according to the detailed 
syllabus at Appendix IV . 

Until further notice the practical test will be conducted on the apparatus given 
in Appendix IVA and IVB . 

Oral questions may also be asked to test the candidates knowledge of the 
significance and functions of the various controls on the apparatus and of the 
operation of the ancilliary equipment. 

The tost will generally be aimed at ensuring that candidates do not have merely 
à superficial knowledge of the apparatus . 
( a ) First Class. The test will be conducted separately for the Maritime 

Mobile (Appendix IVA ) and Aeronautical Mobile Service ( Appendix 
IVB ) . Candidates will be required to choose the service as appro 

priate to them , or both at their option . 
The time allowed for the test is approximately one hour. The maximum 

number of marks is 100 for each service and candidates should obtain 

66 per cent. for a pass . 
(b ) Second Class . - The test will concern only with the Maritime Mobile 

Service (Appendix IVA ) . 
The time allowed for the test is approximately one hour. The maximum 

number of marks is 100 and candidates should obtain 50 per cent. for 
a pass. 


- - - 


- - - 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 

139 

-- - - - - - - 
4 . Examination for conversion of Second Class Certificate into First Clays. 

4. 1. A holder of the Second Class Radio Telegraph Operator s Certificate may 
appear for Part II only of the examination and obtain a First Class Radio Telegraph 
Operator s Certificate provided 

he has 12 months total experience within 3 years immediately pre 

ceding the date of application for such examination . 
Experience for this purpose means experience at a Mobile Station in the 
Maritime or Acronautical Mobile Service as a radio officer or wireless operator or 
as un operator of the radio telegraph apparatus at a radio telegraph station main 
tained on land for communication with Moblle Stations in the Maritime or Aero 
nautical Mobile Service 

4 . 2. Form and details of the exumination : 

4 . 2 . 1. The candidate will be required to pass Sections II and III only of the 
First Class Radio Telegraph Operator s Examination . The syllabus will be the 
sanie as for the corresponding sections of the examination for the First Class Radio 
Telegraph Operator s Certificate . In addition , in the practical test on commercial 
working, the candidate may be asked oral questions on regulations and procedure 

propriate to the service he has chosen , 


5 . Special Class Radio Telegraph Operator s Certificate . 
5 . 1. The examination will consist of the following Sections , 
Section I: Morse : 
Section II: Practical & Oral Tests 
5 .2. Form and details of the examination : 
Section 1: Morse : 

The morse sending and receiving tests are the same as for the Second Class 
Radio Telegraph Operator s Certificate ; 

Section Il: Practical & Oral l est 
( i ) Technical; 

Candidates will be expected to possess detailed knowledge of the practical 
operation and adjustment of typical radio apparatus commonly in use in the 
Maritime Mobile Service ( Appendix IV A ) with particular emphasis on the 
ability to 

( a ) detect and rectify simple faults ; 
( b ) detect and replace faulty fuscs , valves, microphones and headphones ; 
( c ) change frequency of transmitting apparatus; and 

( c ) tune receivers to different frequencies , 
The time allowed is approximately one hour. The maximum number of marks 
JS 100 and candidates must secure 50 per cent. for a pass 

( 11) Commercial working : 

Same as for the Second Class Radio Telegraph Operator s Certificate . In 
addition , oral questions may be asked on Regulations and procedure . 


6 . Radio Telephone Operator s Certificate (General) .- - 

6 . 1. The examination will be an oral and practical test and will consist of the 
following sections: 

Section I: Regulations and Procedure : 
Section II : l eclinical: 

The examination will be conducted separately for the Maritime Mobile Service 
and the Arronautical Mobile Service Candidates may offer to be examined for 
one or both the services at their option . 

6 .2. Form and details of the pramination : 
6. 2.1. Section Regulations and Procedure 
The examination will be according to the syllabus given at Appendix III 

Oral questions will be asked to test the candidate s knowledge of the regula 
tions and procedure applicable to radiotelephony in the Service chosen by him . 


140 


THE GAZETTE OF INDJA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


[ PART II - Sec. 3 


A practical test will be conducted over a Synthetic R / T circuit . Candidates 
will be required to use the phonetic alphabet and general procedure for R / T 
working 

Candidates will be required to carry out communications associated with 
mobile and / or base stations. Typical examples of what candidates are expected 
to carry out are 
Preparation of messages for transmission - exchange of traffic - use of 

priorities - - requesting D / F assistance - obtaining meteorological in 
formation _ position report4 _ distregs , urgency , safety and D / F 

traffic procedures . 
The time allowed is approximately 30 minutes . The maximum number of 
marks is 100 for each Service and candidates must secure 50 per cent. for a pass . 

6 . 2.2 . Section 11 - Technical 
Candidates will be required to have 
( a ) Elementary knowledge of 
the principles of radiotelephony apparatus - modulation systems - different 

types of modulation — inicrophones and their usage - headphones 
propagation characteristics of frequcncies in the MF, HF and we 
bands — choice of frequencies for communication between differ 

distances - aerials 
(b : Detailed knowledge of 

Practical operation and adjustment of typical radiotelephone apparatus used 
in the Maritine Mobile Service and / or Acronautical Mobile Service , with parti 
cular emphasis on the ability to : 

( 1 ) detect and rectify simple faults ; 
( iil detect and place faulty fuses, valves , inicrophones and headphones ; 
( 111 ) change frequency of transmitting apparatus; and 

( iv ) tune receivers to different frequencies . 
The time allowed is one hour. The maximum number of marks is 100 and the 
candidates must secure 50 per cent. for a pass . 


7 . Radio Telephone Operator s Certificate (Restricted ). 

7 .1. The examination will be an oral and practical test and consist of the 
following Sections ; - 

Section 1 - - Regulations and Procedure 
Section 11 - Technical 

The examination will be conducted separately for the Maritime and the Aero 
nautical Mobile Services, Candidates may offer to be examined for one or both 
the services at their option . 

7.2 . Form and details of the eramination : 
7.2 .1. Section Regulations and Procedure 

This test will be the same as the one for Radio Telephone Operator s Certi 
ficate (General ) . 

7. 2 .2 . Section II Technical 

Candidates will be required to have a practical knowledge of the manipula 
tion of a typical ship or aircraft radio telephony apparatus as appropriate to the 
Service chosen by them . 

The time allowed is approximately 30 minutes . The maximum number of 
marks is 100 for each service and the candidates must secure 50 per cent for a pass. 


APPENDIX I 
Magnetism , Electricity and Radio Theory 

( Detailed Syllabus ) 

Magnetism 
Magnetic fields- properties of magnetic materials - permeability — terrestial 
magnetism ; 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15, 1955 


141 


General Electrical Principles 
Simple atomic theory - current as electron flow - conductors and insulators 
definitions - electrical units — Ohms Law - inductance, capacity - application of the 
electro -magnet ; 

Batteries & Battery charging 
Primary and secondary cells — Battery charging and maintenance- switch 
boards, 

Motors, Dynamos, Alternators & Convertors 
Principles - construction and use - control of output or speed of rotation 
starters - maintenance ; 

Alternating Current Theory 
Sinusoidal alternating quantities — RMS and peak values- phase difference 
vector addition of alternating quantities — impedence and reactance - series and 
parallel resonance - power factor — simple calculation , 

Electronic Theory 
Transformers - chokeg - -skin effect ; 

Thermionic emission . Valve Theory - electrode construction - valve charac 
teristics - valve as an oscillator , amplifier , detector , etc , 

Mutual conductance , AC resistance , amplification factor , relation between 
gm , ra and u -- load resistance , 
Different types of valves , 

Oscillatory Circuits 
Frequency and wavelengt2 — - resonance - - free and forced oscillations — meaning 
of Q - coupled circuits ; 

Measuring Instruments 
Moving coil, moving iron , thermocouple and hot wire meters , the Megger 
use of shunts and multipliers , 

Receiver Theory 
TRF Receiver - Superhetrodyne Receiver - Communication Receiver - detectors 
-hetrodyning - frequency changers — VHF RF and AF amplifiers — push pull and 
parallel arrangements - negative feed back - cathode follower - - intervalve coupling 
AVC & AFC - - sensitivity , selectivity , screening - signal / noisc radio _ types of 
interference methods of suppressing noise and minimising interference — CW and 
R / T reception circuit diagrams— filters , 

Transmitter Theory 
Development of the value oscillator - spark transmitter - CW , ICW and R / T 
transmitters for VHF, HF , MF and LF transmission series and parallel feed 
Class A , B , C operation - crystal control - frequency stabullty - neutralisation 
frequency multiplication - modulation and keying circuits , 

Power Supplies ( Transmitters & Receivers ) 
Battery supplies - - motor generators , AC supplies -- valve rectifiers -- three phase 
connections _ voltage doublers - metal rectifiers - vib : ators - smoothing and regula 
tion stabilovolts , 

Radio Telephony 
Essential processes of Radiotelephony - modulation and sidebands - methods of 
modulation - volume control - functions of microphones, headphones and loud 
speakers - matching - circuit diagrams, 

Properties of Electro -magnetic waves 
Ground and sky waves- ionosphere - reflection - skip distance / polarisation 
and fading - ccho and multipath - day and night frequencies — comparison of LF, 
MF HF and VHF propagation - critical frequency , 

Aerials 
Principles of radiation - simple aerials — functions of earth - aerial reactance 
and capacity - standing waves- reflectors — Beam transmission Poląr diagrams 
aerial/ transmitter coupling - - radiation resistance - power output - matching 
feeders ; 


142 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15, 1955 


[PART II - Sec. 3 


Direction Finding & Navigational Aids 
Basic principles - polar diagram of reception — the goniometer - comparison 
between BT and Adcock systems— errors in D / F - use of correction charts — radio 
and radar aids to navigation - radio beacons ; 

Cathode Ray Tubes 
Principles - construction - elements controls - power supplies - simple time 
base - common application of oscilloscopes ; 

Specialised Thermionic Tubes 
Elementary principles and application of magnetron , klystron , thyratron , etc.; 

Transistors 
Elementary principle and application , and 

Radio Servicing and Testing 
Need for quantitative measurement principle and method of using various 
types of test equipment — wavemeters- multivibrators - -use of decibels - measure 
ments applicable to servicing of radio apparatus — knowledge of rating and con 
struction of components . 


APPENDIX II 
Standard Radio Installation ( Detailed Syllabus) 

A . Maritime Mobile Service : 
Interpretation of typical circuit diagrams — general principles of operation and 
maintenance of standard ship radio equipment - receivers — transmitters - auto 
alarm - types of aerials used on ships — D / F and Radio Navigational Aids 
calibration of D / F maps - calculation of great circle distances — basic principles of 
radar, radar equipment - Decca - - detailed knowledge of principles of operation 
and circuitry of equipment listed in Appendix IVA . 

B . Aeronautical Mobile Service : 
Interpretation of circuit diagrams- general principles of operation and main 
tenance of standard receivers , transmitters automatic frequency changing 
arrangement - preselection of frequencies — types of aerials used on aircraft for 
different purposes — D / F and Navigational Aids - - radio compass - omni ranges 
marker beacons — VOR , ILS , GCA , DME - principles and functions of equipment 
on ground and air basic principles of radar - Decca , Consol, Loran , Gee, SEA etc . 
- Detailed knowledge of principle of operation and circuitry of equipment listed 
in Appendix IVB . 


APPENDIX - III 
Regulations and Traffic procedure (detailed syllabus) Maritime Mobile Service 

International Q code and other abbreviations and signals used in the Maritime 
Mobile Service - international Telecommunication Convention , Radio and Addi 
tional Radio Regulations — that part of the Safety of Life at Sea Convention relat 
ing to radio communications - distress , urgency and safety procedure - D / F pro 
cedure principal maritime navigational and telecommunication routes of the 
world - facilities afforded by coast stations - license requirements for installation 
and operation of radio apparatus on board ships - service documents to be carried 
on board ships - lay out of message log -kceping. 

Aeronautical Mobile Service 
International Telecommunication Convention and Radio Regulations ; general 
and aeronautical Q code signals and other abbrcviations as contained in I. C . A . O . 
Annex. 10 with special reference to operation in the aeronautical mobile service ; 

Communication procedures as prescribed in I.C . A . O . Annex 10 both for radio 
telegraph and radio telephone communication particularly those applicable to the 
aeronautical mobile service - procedures for distress , urgency and safety communi 
cations - procedures for direction - finding systems operated on HF and VHF bands; 
procedures for dirtress communication in the Maritime Mobile Service ; 

Word - spelling system used in radiotelephony, applicable in the Aeronautical 
Mobbile Service and the Maritime Mobile Service ; 

Licensing requirements of installation and operation of radio apparatus on air 
craft - minimum requirement of radio equlpment to be carried on aircraft for 


PART II- - Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15, 1955 


143 


International air operations as prescribed in the I. C . A . O . Annex . 6 and for other 
operations as prescribed by Civil Aviation authority in India vide Notice to Air 
men No. 9 of 1954 ; 

Flight information regions in India and main radio communication and naviga 
tional facilities available - principal frequencies to be used for communication and 
navigațional assistance for flights within India - mcieorological codes - pre -fight 
briefing services and their usage - knowledge of relevant publications and notices 
to Afrien issued by the Civil Aviation Authority in India as applicable to the 
Aeronautical Mobile and Air Traffic Contrul Serv .le . - upkeep of operators logs 
documents with which aircraft stations must be provided , 


APPENDIX IV 
Practical test on appearatus ( detailed syllabus) 
1. The practical examination will be conducted on both radio telephone and 
radio telegraph apparatus. 

2 . Candidates are required to know - - 

( 1 ) the functions of thc various pieces of apparatus in the radio installations 
Yof mobile stations and ancilliary equiomcnt and testing instruments , etc .; 

(ii) the common faults and means u ually adopted to remedy them ; and 
[i) how to 
. ( a ) change frequencics of the transmitting apparatus and operate receiver 

controls ; 
( b ) start a transmitter and vary power ; 
( c ) trace and clear faults in the transmitting and receiving apparatus; 
( d ) test and charge accumulators ; and 

( e ) use D / F apparatus and obtain bearings . 
3 . Candidates will be required to demonstrate their ability to 
( i ) tune a receiver and transmitter to any required frequency and mani 

pulate the controls for correct transmission and reception ; 
( ii) make rapid changes of wave lengths; 
( iii ) manipulate D / F equipment and obtain bearings ; 
kiv ) test and adjust auto alarm (in the Maritime Mobile Service ) and 

identify different components and trace and rectify faults in an 

apparatus and ancilliary equipment with available testing instruments . 
4 . Oral questions may also be asked to test the thoroughness of the candl 
date s knowledge. 

5. Until further orders the practical tests will be conducted on the apparatus 
listed below : 
A . Maritime Mobile Service : 

1. Marconi Oceanspan Transmitter Type No. RT 301 Series . 
2 . Emergency Transmitter Marconi Type RT 102 . 
3. Receivers — Marconi Mercury and Electra Type RS -601 and RS 301 . 
4 . Energency and Guard Receiver Marconi Type RS 101. 
5 . MF / DF Marconi-Lodestone Type RD 101. 
6 . Auto alarm Marconi VIGILANT , 
7 . Power supply and other ancilliary equipment associated with items 146 

above . 
B . Aeronautical Mobile Service : 

1. Radio Set SCR - 287 (U S . A .) . 
2 . Radio set SCR — 274 (U . S . A .) . 
3 . Radio Compass SCR - - 269 ( U . S .A .). 
4 . VHF Set SCR — 522 (U . S . A .) . 
5 . Power supply and other ancilliary equipment associated with items 1 - 4 
above. 

[No. WE -3 / 15 /54. ] 
V . M . BHIDE, Dy. Secy . 


144 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . JANUARY 15 , 1955 


[ PART II - SEC. 3 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 4th January 1955 
S . R . O . 163. - The following draft of a further amendment in the Drugs Rules , 
1945 , which it is proposed to make after consultation with the Drugs Technical 
Advisory Board , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33 of the Drugs 
Act, 1940 (XXIII of 1940 ) , is published as required by the said section for the 
information of persons likely to be affected thereby , and notice is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration after the 22nd April, 1965 . 

2 . Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person 
with respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by 
the Central Government. 

Draft Amendment 
In rule 49 of the said Rules, clause ( b ) shall be omitted . 

[No. DR / 49 /2 / F .1- 38 / 54 -DS. ) 
KRISHNA BIHARI, Under Secyzy 


New Delhi, the 5th January 1955 
S . R . O . 164 . - The following draft of certain rules which the Central Govern - . 
ment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 2 ) of 
section 4 and sub - section ( 1 ) of section 23 of the Prevention of Food Adulteration 
Act , 1954 (37 of 1954 ) , after consultation with the Central Committee for Food 
Standards, is hereby published for the information of persons likely to be affected 
thereby ; and notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken into considera - , 
tion on or after the 10th February 1955 . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with res 
pect to the said draft before the date so specified shall be considered by the 
Central Government. 


DRAFT RULES 

PART I — PRELIMINARY 
1 . Short titlo , extent and commencement. - ( 1 ) These rules may be called the 
PREVENTION OF FOOD ADULTERATION RULES , 1955 . 

( 2 ) They extend to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and 
Kashmir . 

( 3 ) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Omcial 
Gazette . 
2. Definitions. In these rules , unless the context otherwise requires 

( a ) " Act" means the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954 (37 of 1934 ) . 
( b ) " Director " means the Director of the Laboratory . 
( c ) " Laboratory " means the Central Food Laboratory, 
( d ) " Form " means a form set forth in Appendix A to these rules . 

PART II — THE CENTRAL FOOD LABORATORY 
3 . Functions. In addition to the functions entrusted to the Laboratory by the 
Act , the Laboratory shall carry out the following functions, namely : - - 

( a ) analysis of samples of food sent by any officer or authority authorized by 
the Central Government for the purpose and submission of the certificate of 
analysis to the authorities concerned ; 

(b ) investigations for the purpose of fixation of standards of any article of 
food ; 

( c ) investigations in collaboration with the laboratories of Public Analysts it 
the various States for the purpose of standardizing methods of analysis . 


4 . Analysis of food samples . ( a ) Samples of food for analysis whether under 
sub - section ( 2 ) of section 13 of the Act or under clause ( a ) of rule 3 shall be sent 


PART II SEC. 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 16 , 1955 


145 


either through a messenger or by registered post in a sealed packet. enclosed . 
together with a memorandum in Form I in an outer cover addressed to the 
Director. 

(b ) The packet as well as the outer cover shall be marked with a distin 
guishing number . 

( c ) A copy of the memorandum and a specimen impression of the seal used to 
seal the packet shall be sent separately by registered post to the Director . 

( d ) On receipt of the packet, it shall be opened either by the Director or by 
an officer authorized in writing in that behalf by the Director who shall record 
the condition of the seal on the packet. 

( e ) After test or analysis, the certifcate thereof shall be supplied forthwith to 
the sender in Form II. 

( f) The fees payable in respect of such certificates shall be according to the 
rates specified by the Central Government. 

( 8 ) Certificates issued under these rules by the Laboratory shall be signed by 
the Director , 


PART III - DEFINITIONS AND STANDARDS OF QUALITY 
Standards of quality of the various articles of food specified in Appendix B 
to these rules are as defined in that appendix . 


Part IV – PUBLIC ANALYSTS AND FOOD INSPECTORS 
6 . Qualifications of public analyst. - A person shall not be qualified for appoint 
ment as public analyst unless he - - 

( i) is a graduate , with chemistry as one of the subjects, of a University re 
cognized for this purpose by the State Government and has had for not less than 
five years post - graduate experience in the analysis of food in a laboratory under 
the control of ( a ) a public analyst appointed under the Act , or ( b ) a chemical 
examiner to Government, or ( c ) a Fellow of the Royal Institute of Chemistry of 
Great Britain ( Branch E ) , or ( d ) the head of an institution specially approved for 
the purpose by the State Government; or 

( ii ) is an M . Sc. in chemistry or holds a research degree on the subject of a 
University recognized for this purpose by the State Government and has had for 
not less than two years post - graduate experience in the analysis of articles of 
food under the control of ( a ) a public analyst appointed under the Act, or (b ) a 
chemical examiner to Government, or ( c ) a Fellow of the Royal Institute of 
Chemistry of Great Britain ( Branch E ) , or ( d ) the head of an institution specially 
approved for the purpose by the State Government; or 

( lii) is a graduate in medicine of a University recognized for the purpose by 
the State Government with a post - graduate qualification in Public Health and 
with experience in food analysis for at least three years ; or 

( iv ) is a Fellow of the Royal Institute of Chemistry of Great Britain 
( Branch E ) : 

Provided that for a period of four years from the commencement of the Act, 
persons whose qualifications, training and experience are regarded by the State 
Government as affording , subject to such further training, if any, as may be con 

ered necessary, a reasonable guarantee of adequate knowledge and competence 
may be appointed as public analysts. 


7 . Duties of publio analyst. ( 1 ) On receipt of a package from a food inspector 
or any other person containing a sample for analysis , the public analyst shall 
compare the seals on the packet with specimen impression received separately 
and shall note the condition of the seals on the package . 

( 2 ) The public analyst shall cause to be analysed such samples of articles of 
food as may be sent to him by food inspector or any other person under the Act . 

( 3 ) After the analysis has been completed he shall forthwith supply to the 
person concerned a report in triplicate in Form III of the result of the analysis . 
n ( 4 ) A public analyst shall, periodically forward to the State Government re 
ports giving the result of analytical work with a view to their publication at the 
discretion of the Government. 


146 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15, 1935 


[ PART II — SEC 3 


8 Qualifications of a food Inspector. A person shall not be qualified for 
appointment as food inspector unless he 

( 1) is a medical officer in charge of the health administration of a local area , or 
( 11) is a graduate in medicine , or 

( 111) is a holder of qualification in sanitary science registrable as an additional 
qualification by the State Medical Council, or Health Omcers Examination certi 
ficate or possesses qualifications prescribed by the respective State Governments 
for appointment of sanitary inspectors or health inspectors . 

Provided that for a period of four years from the date on which the Act takes 
effect, persons whose qualifications, training and experionce are regarded by the 
State Government as affording, subject to such further training , if any, as may be 
considered necessary , a reasonable guarantee of adequate knowledge and com 
petence may be appointed as food inspectors 


9 Duties of food Inspectors .- - It shall be the duty of the food inspector 

( 1 ) to inspect as frequently as may be prescribed by the Food (Health ) Au 
thority or the local authority all establishments licensed for the manufacture, 
storage or sale of an article of food within the area assigned to him ; 

(2 ) to satisfy himself that the conditions of the licences are being observe . ) 

( 3 ) to procure and send for analysis , if necessary, samples of any articles of 
food which he has reason to suspect are being manufactured , stocked or sold or 
exhibited for sale in contravention of the provisions of the Act or rules there 
under ; 

( 4 ) to investigate any complaint which may be made to him in writing ; 

(5 ) to maintain a record of all inspections made and action taken by him in 
the performance of his duties , including the taking of samples and the seizure of 
stocks, and to submit copies of such record to the health officer or the Food 
(Health ) Authority as directed in this behalf , 

(6 ) to make such enquiries and inspections as may be necessary to detect the 
manufacture , storage or sale of articles of food in contravention of the Actor 
rules thereunder ; 

(7 ) to stop any vehicle suspected to contain any food intended for sale or 
delivery for human consumption , 

( 8 ) when so authorized by the health officer 01 the Food (Health ) Authority 
to detain imported packages which he has reason to suspect contain food , the 
import or sale of which is prohibited , and 

( 9 ) to perform such other duties as may be entrusted to him by the health 
officer or the Food (Health ) Authority 


10 Form of order not to dispose of stock . - Where the food inspector decides to 
keep under sub section ( 4 ) of section 10 of the Act in the safe custody of the 
vendor any article of food which appears to him to be adulterated or misbranded , 
he shall make an order to the vendor to that effect in Form IV , and the vendor 
shall comply with such order 

11 Form of receipt for food seized by a food inspector. For every article 
food seized and carried away by a food inspector under sub - section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion 10 of the Act, a receipt in Form V shall be given by the food inspector to 
the person from whom the article was seized 


12 Form of Intimation of purpose of taking sample . - Where a food inspector 
takes a sample of an article of food for the purpose of analysis , he shall intimate 
such purpose in writing in Form VI to the person from whom he takes the 
sample 

13 Power of food inspector to deal with carriers of disease handling food , 
( 1 ) Where the food inspector is of the opinion that any person engaged in selling 
or manufacturing any article of food is suffering from or harbouring the germs of 
any infectious disease, he may examine or cause to be examined such person . 

Provided that where such person is a female above the age of eight years she 
shall be examined by a woman duly authorized by the food inspector 


PART II - SEC , 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


147 


( 2 ) If on such examination the food inspector finds that such person is suffer 
ing from any such disease , he may by order in writing direct such person not to 
take part in selling or manufacturing any article of food without the permission 
of the food inspector. 


PART V — SEALING , FASTENING AND DESPATCH OF SAMPLES 
14 . Samples of food for the purpose of analysis shall be taken in clean dry 
bottles or jars which shall be closed by glass stoppers or new corks sufficiently 
tight to prevent leakage, evuporation , or in the case of dry substance , entrance of 
moisture , and shall be carefully sealed . In the case of milk the bottle shall be 
nearly full in order to prevent the separation of fat by shaking in transit. Sweet 
meats and other articles of food liable to decomposition shall be sent for analysis 
not more than 48 hours after they are taken . 


15 . All bottles containing samples for analysis shall be properly labelled and 
the parcels shall be properly addressed . The label on any sample of food sent 
for analysis shall bear 

( a ) Serial No. 
(b ) Name of the sender with official designation , if any . 
( c ) Name of the vendor . 
( d ) Date and place of collection , 
( e ) Nature of article submitted for analysis . 
( f ) Nature and quantity of preservative, if any, added to the sample . 


16 . All samples of food sent for analysis shall be packed, fastened and sealed 
in the following manner, nam ly : 
( a ) The stopper shall first be securely fastened so as to prevent leakage of 

the contents in trar-sit . 
(b ) The bottle shall then be completely wrapped in fairly strong thick 

paper . The ends ui the papers shall be ncatly folded in and affixed 

by means of gum or other adhesive. 
( c ) The paper cover shall be further secured by means of strong twine or 

thread both above and across the bottle and the twine or thread 
shall then be fastened on the paper cover by means ol segling wax 
on which there shall be at least four distinct and clean ir , lessions 
of the seal of the sender , of which one shall be at tiid (61) of the 
packct, one at the bottom and the other two on the body of the 
packet. The knots of the twine or thread shall be covered by means 
of sealing wax bearing the impression of the seal of the sender . 


17. The . container of sample for analysis shall be sent to the public analyst/ 
Director by registered post or by hand in a sealed packet, enclosed together with 
a memorandum , in Form VII in an outer cover addressed to the public analyst / 
Direutur . 


18 . A copy of the memorandum and a specimen impression of the seal uscd 
to seal the packet shall be sent to the public analyst/ Director separutely by 
registered post. 


19 . Any person taking a sample of any food for the purpose of analysis under 
the Act may add a preservative to the sample for the purpose of nieintaining it 
in a condition suitable for analysis . 


20 . The preservative used in the case of samplcs of any milk (incluuing 
skimmed and separated milk ) , and gur shall be the liquid commonly known as 
" formalin " that is to say , a liquid containing about 40 per cent. of formaldehyde 
in aqueous solution , in the proportion of two to three drops for one ounce for the 
sample . 


21 . The preservatives used in the case of butter , cheese , channa, cream shall 
be borar or boric acid in the proportion of 0 . 5 parts for every 100 parts of the 
sample . 


22 . Whenever any preservative is added to a sample , the nature and quantity of 
the preservative added shall be clearly noted on the label to be affixed to the 
container . 


148 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 16 , 1955 


( PART II — BEC. 3 


23. The quantity of sample of food to be sent to the public analyst/ Director 
for analysis shall be as specified below : 


Article of food 


Quantity to be 

supplied 


Oz. 


trisomiada 


1. Milk 

Ghet 
Butter , 
Khoa . 
Dabi . 
Edible oils 
Edible fats 
Tea 

Atta 
10 . Wheat flour 
II. Gur 
12 . Canc Sugar 
13 . Honey 
14 . Prepared food 


PART VI – PRESERVATIVES 
24 , Preservative means a substance which when added to food , is capable of 
inhabiting , retarding , or arresting the process of fermentation , acidification , OT 
other decomposition of food but does not include common salt (sodium chloride ) , 
salt petre ( sodium or potassium nitrate ), sugar, lactic acid , acetic acid or vinegar, 
glycerine, alcohol or potable spirits, herbs, hop extract , spices and essential oils 
used for flavouring purposes or any substance added to food by process of curing 
known as smoking , 


25 . No person shall manufacture for sale or sell any article of food which 
contains preservative; 

Provided that the articles of food specified below may contain preservatives 
of the nature and in proportion mentioned against them : 


Parts 


Article of food 


Preservative 


per 


million 


. 


. 


Do. 


: 


. 


. 


3 ,000 
2 ,000 
1,000 


Do . 


. 


. 


2 , 000 
750 


I . Sausages and sausage mcat containing raw 

meat, cereals and condiments . . . Sulphur dioxide . 
Fruit and fruit pulp (not dried ) for conver 
şion into fam or crystallised glace or cured 
fruit : 
( a ) Cherries 
(6 ) Strawberries and raspberries 

( c ) Other fruits . . 
3 . Dried fruits : 

(a ) Apricots , peaches, apples and pears . Sulphur dioxide . 
( 0 ) Raisins and sultanas 

Do . . 
4 . Unfermented grape Juice and non - alcoholic 

wine made from such grape juice it labelled 
in accordance with rules 

Benzoic acid 
5 . Other non -alcoholic wincs , cordials and fruit 
julces sweetened or unsweetened . . Sulphur dioxide or . 

Benzoic acid 
6 . Jam (including marmalade and fruit jelly 

prepared in the way in which jam is prepared ) Sulphur dioxide . 
7 . Crystallised glace or cured fruit (including 
candied peel) . . . . . 

Do. , 
8. Fruit and fruit pulp not otherwise specified 
in this tablo . . . . . 

Do. 


2 ,000 


350 


600 


, 


100 


. 


. 


350 


PART II — $ ec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 18, 1955 


149 


Article of food 


Preservative 


Parts per 
million 


70 


9. Sugar (including solid glucose ) 
10 . Corn syrup (liquid glucose ) 
II. Gelatine 
12 . Beer . . . . . 
13 Cider . . . . 
14 . Alcoholic wincs 
IS . Swectened mineral waters . . 
16. Brewed ginger beer 
17 . Coffee extract , . . 
18. Pickles and sauc - made from frult or vege 

tables 
19 . Cornflour (maize starch and other starches ) , 
20. Ginger (Intended for export) . . . 


Sulphur dioxide 

Do, . . 
Do. 
Do . 
Do. 

Do. 
Sulphur dioxide or . 
Benzoic acid 
Benzoic acid . 

Do. 


450 
1,000 

70 
200 
450 

70 
120 
120 
450 


Do. 
Sulphur diocxide 

Do. 


. 
. 


. 
, 


250 

100 
2 ,000 to 
4 ,000 


NOTE : - ( 1) The proportion of the preservatives are by weight. 

(2 ) "Sulphur dioxide shall include sulphites, and benzoic acid 

shall include benzoates 
26 No food shall contain more than one of the two preservatives specified in 
rule 25 except in the case of a mixed food prepared from two or more foods in 
which different preservatives are permitted , and mixed food so prepared shall not 
contain a greater amount of any one preservative than is specifically allowed in 
the quantity of that food containing the preservative used in the preparation of 
the mixed food 

27 Every person who sells any food containing any preservative shall attach 
to the package containing such food a label in which shall be written in bold 
letters a statement in the following form : 


(a ) Contains permitted preservative 


NOTE — The declaration shall be completed by inserting at ( a ) the word 

this or these followed by the name of the article of food . 


28 . Every person who sells any package containing any preservative intended 
for use in food shall attach thereto a label in which shall be written the chemical 
name of the preservative and the proportion present, in the following form : 


This preservative contains 
( a ) per cent of sulphur dioxide 


NOTE . - ( 1) Where the article contains benzoic acid , the words " benzoic acid " 

shall be substituted for the word " sulpher dioxide" . 
( 11) The declaration shall be completed by inserting at ( a ) in words 
and figures , excluding fractions [ e .p . " seventy ( 70 ) " ], the true 
percentage of sulphur dioxide or benzoic acid present in the 
article . 

PART VII- - COLOURING MATTER 
29 . The addition of a colouring matter to any article of food except as specifl 
cally permitted by these rules, is prohibited . 

30 . Where an artificial colouring matter has been added to any article of food 
there shall be written in the label attached to any package of food so coloured 
a statement in capital letters as below : 

ARTIFICIALLY COLOURID 
Provided that this rule shall not apply to cheese ( all classes ), ice - cream , 
mixed ice - cream , butter , icing gugar and gelatine desserts . 


190 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 [PART II -- Sec . 3 

- - - - - H - - - - - 
31. Notwithstanding provisions of rule 30 caramel may be used without label 
declaration in non -alcoholic beverages, dahi, sauces and vinegar . 

32 . The following natural colouring matters may be used in or upon any 
article of food : 

( a ) Cochineal or Carmine, 
(b ) Carotin and Carotenoids, 
( c ) Chlorophyll, 
( d ) Lactoflavin , 
( e ) Caramel, or 

( f) any other harmless colour . 
33 . Inorganic colouring matters and pigments shall not be added to any article 
of food . 

34. No coal tar dyes except the following shall be used in the preparation of 
foods: 

(a ) Indigotine ( F . D .C . Blue No. 2 ) 
(b ) Orange I ( F . D . C . Orange No. 1 ) 
(c ) Amaranth ( F . D .C . Red No. 2 ) 
( d ) Erythrosine ( F . D . C . Red No. 3 ) 

( e ) Tartrazine ( F .D . C . Yellow No. 5 ) 
35 . Use of synthetic organic colours or coal tar dyes in or upon any food oiner 
than those enumerated below are prohibited : 

( a ) Ice -cream including mixed ice -cream , 
(b ) Dairy products cxcept milk and Dahi, 
( c ) Smoked fish , 
( d ) Ege preparations , 
( e ) Sweets including pastry and confectionary, 
(f ) Fruit conserves, jams and jellies, and 
( g ) non - alcoholic beverages . 


36 . The miximum limit of permissible colour which may be added to any food 
shall be one grain per pound of food ; 

Provided that raw food which is taken after cooking in the usual way shall 
not contain any colouring matter whatever including those specified in rule . .. 


37 . The permissible synthetic colouring matter which may be used in or uon 
foods shall be frec from all toxic contaminants that are likely to be introduced 
during the process of manufacture. 


38. The colours specified in rule 34 when used in the preparation of any 
article of food shall be absolutely pure and free from any harmful impurities . 


PART VIII - PACKING AND LABELLING OF Foods 
39. Unless exempted by the Act or any of the rules thereunder, every labor 
shall include : 
( a ) the name, trade name, or description of the food contained in the 

package; 
( b ) the name and business address of the manufacturer or importer , or 

vendor , or packer, not being a post office address ; 
( c ) where any permissible preservative is present a statement of nature 

and quantity or proportion of such preservative ; 
( d ) where any permissible colouring and / or flavouring is present the de 

claration of such colouring and / or flavouring of such colouring and / 

or flavouring; and 
( e ) the net weight, or number or measure, or volume as the case may re 

quire . 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


151 


40 . The declaration under rules shall be printed in dark block types upon a 
Light coloured ground in English , Hindi ( in Devnagri script) and at least one of 
the chief languages of the State . 

41. There shall be a surrounding line enclosing the declaration and in cases 
in which the words " unft for babies " are required to be used there shall be 
another such Une enclosing these words, 

42. The distance between any part of the words " unfit for bobies" and the 
surrounding line enclosing these words shall not be less than one - sixteenth of an 
inch . 

43. The type used for the declaration shall not in any part, be less than one 
eighth of an inch in height : 

Provided that where the size of the package does not permit use of a type of 
one - eighth of an inch , letters of proportionately reduced size may be used ; 

Provided further that the type used for the words " unfit for babies " shall not 
be less than twice the height of any part of the declaration . 


44 . A label shall not contain any statement, claim , design , device, fancy name 
or abbreviation which is false or misleading in any particular concerning the food 
contained in the package, or concerning the quantity or the nutritive value or 
in relation to the place of origin of the said food , 

45. The label shall not contain any reference to the Act or any of these rules 
or any comment on , or reference to , or explanation of any particulars or declara 
tion required by the Act or any of these rules to be included in the label which 
directly or by implication , contradicts , qualifles , or modifies such particulars or 
declaration , 

46 . There shall not appear in the label of any package containing food for sale 
the words “ recommended by the medical profession " or any words which imply or 
suggest that the food is recommended , prescribed , or approved by medical practi 
tioners. 

47. A label which describes a food shall not include the word " pure" or any 
word or words of the same significance , unless the food is of the composition , 
strength , purity or quality prescribed by the Act or these rules, and unless it is 
free from artificial colour and preservatives. 

48 . There shall not be written in the statement or label attached to any package 
containing any article of food the word " imitation " or any word or words imply 
ing that the article is a substitute for any food , unless the use of the said word 
or words is specifically permitted by rules . 

49 . The word " pure " or any word or words of the same significance shall not 
be included in the label of a package that contains an imitation of any food . 

50. Form of Labels : 

( A ) Coffee Mixture .---- ( i) Every package containing a mixture of coffee and 
chicory shall have affixed to it a label upon which shall be printed such one of 
the following declarations as may be applicable or any other declaration to the 
like effect : 
( a ) In the case of a mixture of coffee and chicory in which the proportion of 

chicory is 50 per cent . or less : 


Coffec blended with chicory 
This mixture contains : 
Coffee . . . . per cent 
Chicory 

. per cent 


(b ) In the case of a mixture of coffee and chicory in which the proportion of 

chicory exceeds 50 per cent: 


Chicory blended with coffee 
This mixture contains : 
Chicory . . . . per cent 
Coffec . . . . per cent 


152 


152 


THE GAZETE OF INDIA,JANUARY 15,1985 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1956 


( PART II - SEÇ. 3 


Pant1–Sac.: 


( ii ) The label shall not bear any misleading expression such as " French 
coffee " . The admixture of chicory shall be indicated on the same label in the 
same bold type and with the same colouring as used for the word coffee and 
immediately below it . 

( iii) If there is attached to the tin or other wrapper bearing the name, trade 
name or design representing the brand of the mixture of coffee and chicory one 
of the following courses shall be adopted , namely : 
( a ) The declaration in English , Hindi (in Devnagri script ) and in one of 

the chief languages of the State may be printed on , or affixed to the 
transfer or other wrapper or affixed to the portion of the tin or 

other receptacle not covered by the transfer or other wrapper ; or 
(b ) The declaration in English , Hindi ( in Deynagrl script) may be printed 

on the wrapper and the declaration in one of the chief languages of 
the State may be on a separate label affixed to the transfer or other 
wrapper or the portion of the tins or other receptacle not covered by 
the transfer or other wrapper . 


Any such transfer or other wrapper shall , in addition , bear the name and busi 
*ness address of the manufacturer , or importer of the mixture of coffee and chicory 
or of the vendor for whom It is manufactured . 


(iv ) In the case of a mixture containing more than 50 per cent. of chicory , 
the printed label shall describe the contents as chicory and may also state that it 
1 . blended with coffee but no wording shall be used that might suggest that the 
mixture is sold as coffee whether blended or not. 


( B ) Condensed Milk or Dessicated ( Dried ) Milk . - ( i ) Every package contain 
ing condensed milk or dessicated ( dried ) milk shall bear a label upon which is 
printed such one of the following declarations as may be applicable or such other 
declaration substantially to the like effect as may be allowed by the State Govern 
ment: 


( a ) In the case of condensed full cream mille ( unsweetened ) : 


CONDENSED FULL CREAM MILK 

(UNSWEETENED ) 
This tin contains the equivalent of 

(x ) , . . . . . . . . . . . pints of milk 


(b ) In the case of condensed full cream milk (sweetened ): 


CONDENSED FULL CREAM MILK 

(SWEETENED ) 
This tin contains the equivalent of 

( x ) . . . . . . . . . . pints of milk , with sugar 
added . 


( c ) In the case of condensed skimmed milk (unsweetened ) : 


CONDENSED MACHINE - SKIMMED MILK 

ог 
CONDENSED SKIMMED MILK 

(UNSWEETENED ) 


UNFIT FOR BABIES 


This tin contains the quivalent of 

(x ) . . . . . . . . . . . . pints of milk . 


PART 11 - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15, 1955 


IS3 


(d ) In the case of condensed skimmed milk (sweetened ) : 


CONDENSED MACHINE -SKIMMED MILK 

or 
CONDENSED SKIMMED MILK 

( SWEETENED ) 


UNFIT FOR BABIES 


This tin contains the equivalent of 

... . . . . . . . pints ofmilk with sugar 


addes ). ... 


(e ) In the case of dessicated (dried ) full cream milk : 


DRIED FULL CREAM MILK 

This tin contains the cquivalent of 
(x ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . pints of milk 


(1 ) In the case of dessicated (dried ) partly skimmed milk : 


DESSICATED ( DRIED ) PARTLY SKIMMED MILK 


Should notbe used for Babics EXCEPT under 

medical advice 


- 


This tin contains the quivalent of 

(x ) . . . . . . . . . . .pints of cream milk . 


( g ) In the case of dessicated (dried ) skimmed milk : 


DESSICATED (DRIED ) SKIMMED MILK 


UNFIT FOR BABIES 


This tin contains the quivalent of 

(x ). . . ... . ... . . . . pints of skimmed milk . 


( ii ) The declaration shall in each case be completed by inserting at ( x ) the 
appropriate number in words and in figures, for example, " one and a half (11) " , 
any fraction being expressed as eighth , quarters or a half. 

(iii ) There shall not be placed on any package containing condensed milk or 
dessicated ( dried ) milk any comment on , explanation of, or reference to either 
the statement of equivalence , contained in the prescribed declaration or on the 
words " Machine skimmed " , " skimmed " or " unfit for babies " except instructions 
as to dilution as follows: - 
" To make a fluid not below the composition as fresh milk or skimmed milk . 

or cream milk (as the case may be ) with the contents of this package , 


154 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 16 , 1955 


[ PART II — Sec . 3 


add (here insert the number of parts ) of water by volume to one 

part by volume of this condensed milk or dessicated (dried ) milk ." 
( iv ) Wherever the word " milk " appcars on the label of a package of condens 
ed skimmed milk or of dessicated ( dried ) skimmed milk as the description or 
part of the description of the contents , it shall be immediately preceded or follow 
ed by the word "Macnine skimmed " or " skimmed " or " partly skimmed " as the case 
may be . 

( C ) Ice - Cream . -- Every dealer in ice - cream or mixed ice - cream who , in the 
street or other place of public resort, sells or offers or exposes for sale , ice - cream 
or ice - candy from a stall or from a cart, barrow or other vehicle, or from a basket , 
pail, tray or other container used without a staff or a vehicle, shall have his name 
and address along with the name and address of the manufacturer, if any, legibly 
or conspicuously displayed on the stall , vehicle or container , as the case may be. 


51. Notice of addition , admixture or deficiency in food . - ( 1 ) Every advertise 
ment and every price or trade list or label for an article of food which contains 
an addition , admixture or deficiency shall describe the food as containing such 
addition , admixture or deficiency and shall also specify the nature and quantity 
of such addition , admixture or deficiency . No such advertisement or price or 
trade list or label attached to the container of the food shall contain any words 
which might imply that the food is pure. 

( 2 ) Every package, containing a food which is not pure by reason of any 
addition , admixture or deficiency shall be labelled with an adhesive label, which 
shall have the following declaration : 


DECLARATION 


This ( a ) . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . contains an 
admixtu . e of not more than (b ) . , . . . 
me . . . . . . . per cent of (c ) . . . . . . . . 


( a ) Here insert the name of food . 
( b ) Here insert the quantity of admixture which may be present, 
( c ) Here insert the name of the admixture or the name of the ingredient 

which is deficient. 
Where the context demands it , the words contains an admixture of shall be 
replaced by the words contains an addition of or is deficient in , 

( 3 ) Unless the vendor of a food containing an addition , admixture or deficien 
cy, has reason to believe that the purchaser is able to read and understand the 
declaratory label, he shall give the purchaser the information contained in the 
declaratory label by word of mouth at the time of sale. 

(4 ) Nothing contained in this rule shall be deemed to authorise any person to 
sell any article of food required under the Act or these rules to be sold in pure 
condition , otherwise than in its pure condition . 


PART IX - PROHIBITING AND REGULATING OF SALES 
52. No person shall either by himself or by any servant or agent sell 
( a ) cream which has not been prepared from milk or which contains less 

than 40 per cent. of milk fat, 
(b ) milk which contains any added water, 
(c ) ghee containing any added matter not exclusively derived from milk 


fat , 


( d ) skimmed milk ( fat abstracted ) as milk , 
( e ) a mixture of two or more edible oils as an edible oil, 
(f ) vanaspati in which ghee has been added , 
( g ) tomato juice containing added salt , sugar , or dextrose, unless the main 

panel or the main label of every package thereof carries , legibly and 
conspicuously , a declaration by name of the presence of such added 
substance , 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


155 


- 


( h ) a jam that contains added pectin or pectinous preparation unless both 

the inner and the outer labels of every package thereof carry , legibly 

and conspicuously , a declaration of such added substance, 
(i) any article of food which contains or in the preparation of which arti 

ficial sweetener has been used . 


53. No person shall usc the word honcy or any word , mark , illustration , or 
device that suggests honey on the label or any package of, or in any advertise 
ment for , any food that resembles honey but it is not pure honey . 


54 . No person shall sell or have in his possession for the purpose of sale or for 
use as an ingredient in the preparation of an article of food for sale a mixture of 
ghee or butter and any substance ( a ) prepared in imitation or as a substitute for 
ghee or butter , or ( b ) consisting of or containing any oil or fat which does not 
conform to the definition of ghee : 

Provided where a mixture prohibited by this rule is required for the prepara 
tion of an article of food , such mixture shall be made only at the time of the 
preparation of such article of food . 


55. No person shall sell any food containing any colouring, flavouring matter 

preservative , or any other chemical substances such as saxin , dulcin , glucin or 
wuer synthetic sweetening matter or any mineral oil, mineral fat or mineral salt 
( except sodium chloride ) or parrafin or resin , unless the addition or presence of 
any such substance to that food is specifically permitted by the rules : 

Provided that saccharine may be added to any food if the containers of such 
food arc labelled with an adhesive declaratory label, which shall be in the form 
given below : 
This . . . . . . . . (name of food ) contains an admixture of not more than , . . . . . 

per cent. of saccharine. Exclusively meant for use by diabetic patients 
or persons suffering from obesity Or where sugar is contraindicated . 


56. No person shall , sell or use as an ingredient in the preparation of any 
article of food intended for sale , the flesh of any animal or fowl which has died 
on account of natural causes . 


PART X - CONDITIONS FOR SALE AND LICENCE 
57. Conditions for sale . ( 1 ) Every utensil or container used for manufacturing, 
preparing or containing any food or ingredient of food intended for sale shall be 
kept at all times in good order and repair and in a clean and sanitary condition . 
No such utensil or container shall be used for any other purpose. 

( 2 ) No person shall use for manufacturing, preparing or containing any food 
or ingredient of food intended for sale , any utensil or container which is im 
perfectly enamelled , or imperfectly tinned or which is made of such materials or 
is in such a state as to be likely to injure such food or render it noxious. 

( 3 ) Every utensil or container containing any food or ingredient of food intend 
ed for sale shall at all time be either provided with a tight - fitting cover or kept 
closed or covered by a properly fitting lid or by a close fitting cover or gauze, 
net or other material of a texture sufficiently fine to protect the food completely 
om dust, dirt and flies and other insects . 

( 4 ) No utensil or container used for the manufacture or prcparation of or 
containing any food or ingredient of food intended for sale shall be kept in any 
place in which such utensil or container is likely by reason of impure air or dust 
or any offensive, noxious or deleterious gas or substance or any noxious or in 
jurious emanations, exhalation , or effluvium , to be contaminated and thereby 
render the food noxious. 

(5 ) A utensil or container made of the following materials or metals , when 
used in the preparation of food , shall be deemed to render it unfit for human 
consumption : 

(1 ) container which have become rusty ; 
( ii ) enamelled containers which have become chipped and rusty ; 
( iii ) copper or brass containers which are not properly tinned ; and 
( iv ) containers made of aluminium containing an admixture of lead. 


156 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


(PART II – Sec . 3 


2 . Conditions for Licence .- ( 1 ) No person shall manufacture , sell, stock , distri 
bute or exhibit for sale any of the following articles of food except under a 
Licence : - 

(a ) milk or skimmed milk or separated milk , 
(b ) milk products , including khoa , cream , rabri, dahi, etc., 
( c ) ghee , 
( d ) butter, 
( e ) hydrogenated vegetable oils , 
( 1) charbi, 
( g ) edible oils, 
( h ) waste Ghee , 
(i) sweetmeats, or 
(1 ) any other article of food which the State Government by notification 

specify . 
( 2 ) The State Government or the local authority shall appoint licensing 
authorities . 

( 3 ) A licensing authority may with the approval of the State Governmen , - 
the local authority by an order in writing delegate the power to sign licences and 
such other powers as may be specified in the order to any other person under 
his control. 

( 4 ) If articles of food are manufactured , stored or exhibited for sale at more 
than one place, separate application shall be made, and a separate licence shall 
be issued , in respect, of each such place : 


Provided that this shall not apply to itinerant vendors who have no specified 
place of business and who will be licensed to conduct business in a particular area 
within the jurisdiction of the licensing authority . 

( 5 ) Before granting a licence for manufacture, stock or exhibition of any of 
the article of foon in respect of which a licence is required, the licensing authority 
shall inspect the premises and satisfy itself that it is free from sanitary defects . 
The applicant for the licence shall have to make such alteration in the premises 
as may be required by the licensing auhority for the grant of a licence . 

( 6 ) Any person to whom a licence is granted for manufacturing, storing or 
selling ghee , butter - or both , shall not be granted a licence to manufacture , store 
or sell either waste ghee or hydrogenated vegetable oil or charbi within the 
radius of a furlong from the place of his business and vice versa . 

( 7 ) Proprietors of hotels and restaurants who sell or expose for sale savouries , 
sweets or other articles of food shall put up a notice board containing separate 
Lists of the articles which have been cooked in ghee, edible oil, hydrogenated 
vegetable oils and other fats for the information of the intending purchasers. 

( 8 ) Oils which are declared as not intended for human consumption or have 
been denatured , shall not be manufactured stored or sold in the same premises 
where edible oils are manufactured , stored or sold . 

( 9 ) Sweetmeats prepared in hydrogenated vegetable or edible oils shall not 
sold in the same premises in which sweetmeats prepared from ghee are solo 

( 10 ) No licensee shall employ in his work any person who is suffering from 
infectious, contagious or loathsome disease . 

( 11 ) No person shall manufacture, store or expose for sale or permit the sale 
of any article of food in any premises not effectively separated to the satisfaction 
of the licensing authority from any privy, urinal, sullage, drain or place or storage 
of foul and waste matter . 

( 12 ) Al] vessels used for the storage or manufacture of the articles intended 
for sale shall have proper covers to avoid contamination , 

( 13 ) Every manufacturer or wholesale dealer in butter , ghee hydrogenated 
vegetable oils , edible oils, and other fats shall maintain a register showing the 
quantity manufactured received or sold and the destination of each consignment 
of the substances sent out from his manufactory or place of business , and shall 
present such register for inspection whenever required to do so by the licensing. 
authority . 


PART II - SEÇ. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 16 , 1955 


157 


( 14 ) An itinerant vendor granted a licence under these rules shall carry a 
metallic badge showing clearly the licence number and the nature of the article 
for the sale of which the licence has been granted . 

( 16 ) A Licence under these rules shall be gianted for the manufacture or sale 
of pure products only frec from any admixture with foreign substances The 
naturc or articles of food for the sale of which a licence is required under these 
rules shall be mentioned in the application of licence Any objectionable , ambi 
guous or misleading trade name shall not be approved by the licensing authority . 

( 16 ) Every licensee who sells any food, shall display a notice board containing 
the name of the articles which he is exposing or offering for sale 


59 Duration of licenses. - A licence shall, unless sooner suspended or cancelled 
will be for a period of 

Provided that if application for a fresh licence is made before the expiry of the 
period of validity of the licence , the licence shall continue to be in force until 
orders are passed on the application 


60 Cancellation and suspension of licences . ( 1 ) The licensing authority may , 
after giving the licensee an opportunity to show cause why his licence should not 
be cancelled or suspended by order in writing stating the reasons therefor cancel 

cence issued under these rules or suspend it for such period as it thinks fit, 

ter wholly or in respect of some of the substances to which it relates , if , in its 
opinion , the licensee has failed to comply with any of the conditions of the 
Ycence or with any provision of the Act or rules thereunder 

Provided that if such failure or contravention is the consequence of an act or 
Omission on the part of an agent or employee , the licence shall not be cancelled 
or suspended unless the licensing authority is satisfied -- 
( a ) that the act or omission was instigated or connived at by the owner of 

the business or , if the owner is a firm or company , by a partner of the 

firm or a director of the company , or 
(b ) that the owner of the business or an agent or employee of the owner 

had been guilty of a similar act or omission within twelve months 
before the date on which the act or omission in question took place 
and that the owner had , or reasonably ought to have had , knowledge 

of that previous act or omission , or 
( c ) if the act or omission was a continuing act or omission , that the owner 

of the business had , or reasonably ought to have had , knowledge of 

that previous act or omission ; or 
( d ) that the owner of the business had not used due diligence to ensure that 

the conditions of the licence or the provisions of the Act or these 

rules were observed . 
( 2 ) A licensee whose licence has been suspended or cancelled may appeal to a 
PREIstrate within three months of the date of order 


APPENDIX A 

FORM I 

[ See rule 4 ( a ) ] 
(Memorandum to the Director , Central Food Laboratory ) 


From 


To 


The Director, 
Central Food Laboratory , 


No. 


Dated the 

19 . 
Memorandum 
I send herewith , under the provisions of Section 13 ( 2 ) of the Prevention of 
Food Adulteration Act, 1954, sample ( s ) of a food purporting to be . . . . . . . . . 


158 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15, 1955 


[ PART II - SEÇ , 3 


for test or analysis and request that a report of the result of the test or analysis 
may be supplied to this Court. 

1. Distinguishing No. on the packet . . . . . . . . . 
2. Particulars of offence alleged . . . . . . . . . . 


3. Matter on which opinion required . . . . . . . . 


A fee of Rs. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . has been deposited in Court. 


Magistrate . 


FORM II 

[ See rule 4 ( e ) | 
( Certificate of test or analysis by the Central Food Laboratory ) 
Certified that the sample ( s ) , bearing number . . . . . . . . . . . . purporting to be a 
sample / samples of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . received on . , . . . . . . . . . . . .with memorandura 
No. . . . . . . . . . . dated . . . . . . . . from . . . . . . . . . , has /have been tested / analysed and 
that the result /results of such test ( s ) / analysis is / are stated below : 


2 . The condition of the seals on the packet on receipt was as follows: 


Director , or other authorised 

officer, Central Food Laboratory . . 
Place : 
Date : 

It opinion is required on any other matter , suitable paragraph (8 ) may be added . 


FORM III 

[ See rule 7 ( 3 ) ] 

Report by the Public Analyst 
Issued under the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act 1954 and Rules framed 

thereunder 

Form NO . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Analysis No . . . . . . . . ... 
I hereby certify that I,. . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . Public Analyst, duly appointed 
under the provisions of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act 1954, received on 
the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 . . . ., from . . . . . . . . . . . . . . a sample 

. . . . . for analysis , (which then weighed . . . . . . . . . . ) properly 
sealed and fastened , and that I found the seal intact and unbroken . 

I further certify that I have analysed the aforementioned sample, and declare - 
the result of my analysis to be as follows: 


of 


Signed this 


day of .. . . .. . .. . . .. . 19 . 


( Signature ) 
Public Analyst 


Address . . . . 


No . Dated the 

19 
Forwarded (in triplicate ), with reference to his letter /memo. No. . . . . . . . . 
dated . . . . . . 

(Signature ) 
Public Analyst 


To 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


159 


FORM IV 

( Şee rule 10 ) 
Whereas . .. . * * . . . . .. . . . . . .. , intended for food which is in your possession 
appears to me to be adulterated /misbranded . 

Now therefore under sub - section (41 of section 10 of the Prevention of Food 
Adulteration Act 1954 ( 37 of 1954 ) , I hereby direct you to keep in your safe 
custody the said article subject to such orders as may be issued subsequently in 
relation thereto . 

Food Inspector . 


- - 


* * Here give the name of article of food . 


FORM V 

( See rule 11 ) 
The stock of articles of food detailed below has this day been seized by me 
under the provisions of sub - section (4 ) of Section 10 of the Prevention of Food 
Adulteration Act 1954 ( 37 of 1954 ) from the premises of. . . . . . 
situated at 

Details of article of food seized. 
Date . . . . ... . . 

Food Inspector . 


FORM VI 
( See rule 12 ) 


To 


I have this day taken from the premises of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . situated at . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . samples of the food specified below to have the same analysed 
by the public analyst of . . . . . . . . . / Director Central Food Laboratory , 

Detalls of food, 
Dated . . . . . . . . . 

Food Inspector . 


FORM VII 

( See rule 17 ) 
Memorandum to Public Analyst 


From 


TO 


- 


The Public Analyst /Director, Central Food Laboratory , 


No. 

Dated the . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 19 . . . . . . . . . . . . 
femorandum . 

The sample described below is sent herewith for analysis under clause ( b ) of 
sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 10 of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act , 1954 . 

1 . Serial No. of the sample : 
2 . Name of the vendor : 
3. Date and place of collection : 
4. Nature of article submitted for analysis : 

6 . Nature and quantity of preservative if any, added to the sample . 
2 . A copy of this memo and a specimen impression of the seal used to seal tho 
packet of sample is being sent separately by registered post /by hand . " 

Food Inspector . 
* Strike out whichever is not applicable . 


160 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


[PART II - SEC, $ 


- 


- 


- 


APPENDIX B 

DEFINITIONS AND STANDARDS OF QUALITY 
A .01. Beverages-Non - Alcoholic . 

A .01.01. Aerated water, other than soda water, means potable water sweetened 
with sugar impregnated with carbon dioxide or oxygen or with both , under 
pressure , with or without admixture of salts of sodium potassium , lithium , 
magnesium or calcium , singly or in combination and of the prescribed flavouring 
and colouring substances, if any, and shall not contain any lead or other 
poisonous metul, or any other added substance except saccharin up to a limit of 
8 . 8 grains per gallon . 

Aerated water shall be deemed to be below the standard of purity if it is 
manufactured from water which is unlit for drinking purposes or if ice manu 
factured from such water is inserted in it . 

A . 01.02 . Soda water shall be potuhle water impregnated with carbon dioxide 
or oxygen or with both , under pressure with or without admixture of salts of 
sodium potassium , lithium , magnesium or calcium , singly or in combination or 
of sodium bicarbonate , and shall not contain any lead or other poisonous matal 
or any other added substance , 

A .02. Baking Powder means a combination capable , under conditions . 
baking , of yielding carbon dioxide, and consists of sodium bicarbonate , 
acid - reacting material, starch or other neutral material. 
The acid - reacting material of baking powder shall be 

( a ) tartaric acid or its salts, or both . 
( b ) acid salts or phosphoric acids. 
( c ) acid compounds of aluminium , or 

( d ) any combination of the foregoing. 
When tested , baking powder shall yield not less than 10 per cent. of its 
weight of carbon dioxide, 

A .03. Fruit Products. 

A .03.01 . Fruit Juice means the unfermented liquid expressed from sound, 
ripe , fresh fruit, and with or without 

(a ) Bugar , or dextrose, or both or 
(b ) sulphur dioxide in proportion not exceeding 350 parts per million , or 

sodium benzoate not exceedine 600 parts per million . 
A .13 .02. Sweet fruit juices or sweetened fruit juice , means fruit juice to which 
has been added sugar, or dextrose , or a combination of these . 

A .03. 03. Tomato Juice means canned , unconcentrated , pasteurized liquid of 
the tomato , with a proportion of the pulp , expressed with or without the appli 
dation of heat by any method that does not add water to such liquid , from whole , 
ripe tomatoes from which all stems and objectionable portions have been removed 
And , with or without, 

( a ) salt , or 

(b ) sugar , or dextrose , or both added in dry form . 
A .03.04 . Fruit Syrup means sweet fruit juice containing not less than 15 po 
cent. by weight of sugar , dextrose, or a combination of these. It shall not contain 
any added colour, flavour, synthetic sweetening agents or any other extraneous 
matter . 

A . 03 . 05 . Fruit Squash means the expressed juice of the sound and ripe fruit 
with or without its pulp . It shall not contain any added substance , save sugar 
and either sulphur dioxide in the proportion not exceeding 350 parts per million , 
or benzoic acid in proportion not exceeding 600 parts per million as preservative . 
The word " Squash " or the word " crush " or any word or words of similar signi 
Acance shall not be included in the lable relating to any preparation , unless 
such preparation conforms with the standard for fruit squash . 

A . 03. 08 . Fruit Beverage of Fruit Drink means any beverage or drink which 
is purported to be prepared from fruit juice and water , or carbonated water , 
and with or without sugar , citric acid , preservative, and permitted colouring. It 


PART II - SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


161 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


shall contain not less than five per cent. of the juice of the fruit after which it 
is named . Sulphur dioxide in proportion not exceeding 350 parts per million 
or benzoic acid in proportion not exceeding 600 parts per inillion may be added 
to it . 


A .03.07 . Tomato sauce , tomato ketchup , tomato catchup , tomato relish , or any 
other expression conveying the meaning that the product so designated is a 
form of tomato sauce, is a preparation of sound and ripe tomatoes with or with 
out the addition of sugar , salt, vinegar , onions, garlic, eschalots , spices , or condi 
ments . It shall not contain any other vegetable substance and shall otherwise 
conform with the general standard for sales . Benzoic acid in proportion not 
exceeding seven grains to the pound may be added to it. 


A . 03. 08 . Jam means the product obtained by processing fruit, or canned fruit 
with water and sugar by boiling to a suitable consistency and with or without the 
addition of 

( a ) acid ingredient 
(b ) a permitted preservative 
( c ) permitted fruit colour 
( d ) pectin in the form of fruit juice or pectin preparation and shall 

contain not less than 66 per cent. of water soluble solids as estimated 
by the refractometer . 


Ą , Jam described as pure , genuine, or by any other term implying a product 
of first quality means a jam which contains , 
( a ) not less than 45 per cent. of fruit except where the fruit is strawberry 

when it shall contain not less than 52 per cent. 
(b ) no sweetening agent other than sugar or invert sugar syrup , or 
( C ) no apple or rhubarb but it may contain in an amount that reasonably 

compensates for any deficiency in the natural acidity or pectin content 

of the fruit used in its preparation 
( d ) acid ingredient consisting of 

( i) citric , malic or tartaric acid , 

(ii ) lemon or liine juce , 
( 111 ) cider vinegar , or 

( iv ) any combination of these , or 
( e ) pectin . 


A . 03 .09. Jam with Added Pectin means jam that contains ( a ) not less than 
27 per cent. of the named fruit except where such fruit is strawberry when it 
shall contain not less than 32 per cent. 

( b ) a sweetening agent consisting of 

( i ) sugar, 
( ii ) invert sugar syrup , or 
( lii ) a combination by weight of not less than 75 per cent, of sugar or 

invert sugar syrup and not more than 25 per cent. of dextrose or 

glucose, and 
( c ) pectin , or pectinous preparation , and with or without , 
( d ) acid ingredient in an amount that reasonably compensates for any 

deficiency in the natural acidity of the fruit used in its preparation 
consisting of 
(1) citric, malic , or tartaric acid , 
( ii ) lemon or lime juice , 
( iii) cider vinegar , or 

( iv ) any combination of these , 
( e ) permitted food colour , or 

( 1 ) permitted preservative. 
A .03. 10 . Marmalade means the food of jelly - like consistency made from any 
combination of peel, pulp , and juice of the named citrus fruit by boiling with 


162 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


[ PART II — Sec . 3. 


- - - 


= 


= 


water and sugar or invert sugar syrup , and with or without an acid ingredient 
in an amount that reasonably compensates for any deficiency in the natural 
acidity of the citrus fruit used in its preparation , consisting of 

( a ) cítric , malic, or tartaric acid , 
( b ) lemon or lime juice , 
( c ) cider vinegar, or 

( d ) any combination of these , 
and shall contain not less than 65 per cent. of water - soluble solids as estimated 
by the refractometer . 
A . 03 . 11. Marmalade with Added Pectin means marmalade which contains 
( a ) not less than 27 per cent. of any combination of the peel, pulp , or 

juice of the named citrus fruit , 
( b ) a sweetening agent consisting of, 

( 1) sugar , 
( ii ) invert sugar syrup, or 
( iii ) a combination by weight of not less than 75 per cent of sugar - 

invert sugar syrup and not more than 25 per cent of dextrose or 

glucose , 
(c ) not less than 65 per cent. of water -soluble solids as estimated by the 

refractometer , and 
( d ) pectin , or pectinous preparation , and with or without . 
( e ) ucid ingredient in an amount that reasonably compensates for any 

deficiency in the natural acidity of the citrus fruſt used in its pre 

paration , consisting of 
( i) citric , malic , or tartaric acid , 
( 11 ) lemon or lime juice , 
( iii ) cider vinegar , or 

( iv ) any combination of these, or 

( f) permitted preservative. 
A . 04 . Starchy Foods. 

A .04 .01. Arrow Root means the separated and purifled starch from the 
rhizomes of the plant known as Maranta arundinacea . 

A . 04 . 02. Sago means a starch product derived from Sago palm ( Species 
metroxylon ) or from tapioca root (Manihot utilissima ) . 

A .05 . Asafoetida means the oleo - gum - resin obtained from the resin obtained 
from the rhizome and root of Ferula foetida , Ferula rubricaulis and other species 
of Ferula . It should not contain sand , gravel or other foreign mineral matter , 
colophony resin , galbonum resin , ammoniacum resin or any other foreign resin ; 
the ash should not exceed 20 per cent. of its weight; and the alcoholic extract 
(with 90 per cent, alochol) should not exceed 25 per cent. 
A .06 . Species, condiments , etc .-- 

A .06 .01. Black pepper or Pepper corn means the sound fruit of Pepper nigrum 
having characteristic appearance. No sample should contain more than 5 per 
cent, of deteriorated fruit having no kernel, or any extraneous matter . The total 
ash vulue should not exceed 8 per cent. of the weight of the sample in raw state 
and not more than 1 . 5 per cent. of the ash should be insoluble in hydrochloric 


acid , 


A .06 . 02 . Turmeric (Haldı) means the dried rhizome or bullbousroot oť plants 
of Curcuma genus or longa species and includes turmeric in whatsoever form , 
It shall be free from damage by insect pests , from lead chromate and other 
artificial colouring matter , and shall not contain more than 2 . 5 parts per million 
of lead. It shall conform to the following standards: 

( a ) Moisture shall not be more than 10 per cent. 
( b ) The characteristic boric acid test shall be positive, 
( c ) Total ash shall not be more than 6 per cent. 
( d ) Total water extract shall not be less than 10 per cent . 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 

163 
- - - - 
A .06.03. Zeera Sufed and Zeeru Kala means sound fruit of Cuminum cyminum 
linn and Carum carbu linn respectively . The fruit must be sound, must have the 
characteristic appearance under the microscope , and must not contain more than 
five per cent of deteriorated fruit or zeera dust or stalk , 

A . 06 .04 . Cinnamon nieans the dried inner bark of Cinnamomum Zeylanicum . 
Powdered cinnamon shall not contain any cassia nor any other foreign vegetable 
substance . It shall contain not more than eight per cent. of total ash and not 
more than two per cent. of ash insoluble in hydrochloric acid . 

A .06. 05. Cloves means the dried flower -buds of Eugenia caryophyllata . They 
shall not contain any exhausted or partly - exhausted cloves, nor any foreign 
vegetable or mineral substance , nor more than five per cent. by weight of clove 
stems. 

A . 06 . 06 . Coriander is the dried fruit of the coriander plant, and shall not contain 
more than 7 per cent. of total ash , and 1 . 5 per cent, of ash insoluble in hydrochloric 
acid . 

A . 06 .07 . Ginger means the washed and dried or the decorticated and dried 
rhizome of Zingiber officinale and shall be free from damage by insect pests . The 
presence of sulphur dioxide to the extent of 2 , 000 to 4 , 000 parts per million in ginger 
is permissible for its preservation . It shall conform to the following analytical 
btandards: 
(u ) Alcohol (90 per cent) 

. . Solublc cxtract not less than 4 . 5 

per cent. 
(6) Ash 

Not more than 60 per cent. 
c) Water -soluble extract 

Not less than 10 . 0 per cent. 
( d ) Water - soluble ash 

Not less than 1 7 per cent. 
(e ) Lead 

Not exceeding 205 parts per 

million . 


A .07. Bean means dry kidney shaped or flattened secds of the leguminous 
varieties used as food , either whole or prepared as dhall. It shall not contain 
hydrocyanic acid exceeding 20 parts per million as determined by A . 0 . A . C . 
maceration method . 
A .08 . Sweetening Agents 

A . 08 . 01. Cane Sugar is the crystalized sugar obtained from sugar -cane, beet 
root, etc . and includes the refined product obtained from gur. 

It shall not contain more than 0 . 7 per cent. of ash and more than 1 , 5 per 
cent, of water and less than 96 . 5 per cent. of cane - sugar. It should be free from 
all poisonous matter . 

A .08 . 02. Bura should contain 96 . 7 per cent. of total sugar expressed as sucrose 
and should not contain more than half per cent of its weight as insoluble ash . 
It should be free from all poisonous matter. In the case of Khandşari the minimum 
sugar content in term of sucrose should be 90 per cent. 


A .08.03. Gur or Jaggery means the product obtained by boiling or processing 
juice extracted or pressed out of sugar cane , palmyra palm date trees or coconut 
palm . It shall be free from substances deleterious to health and shall conform 
to the following analytical standards on dry weight basis : 

( 1) Total sugar not less than 90 per cent. and sucrose not less than 

70 per cent. 
( ii ) Extraneous matter insoluble in water not more than 2 per cent. 
( III) Total ash not more than 6 per cent. 
(iv ) Ash insoluble in Hydrochloric acid (HCL ) not more than 0.2 per 

cent, 
Gur or Jaggery other than that of the liquid or semi- Liquid variety , shall not 
contain more than 10 per cent. moisture as determined by the steam oven method . 

A . 08 .04 . Honey means the food derived entirely from the work of bees operat 
ing upon the nectar of flowers and other sweet exudation of plants . It shall not 
contain more than ( a ) 26 per cent. of moisture , ( b ) 0 . 5 per cent. of ash , and 
( c ) 10 per cent of sucrose . The minimum sugar content shall be 60 . 

A . 08 .05 . Ice - candy means the frozen ice produce containing sugar, with or 
without the addition of the prescribed colouring or favouring substance . 


164 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 


[ PART II - Sec . 3 


A .08 .06 . Artificial Sweetener means any chemical compound which is sweet to 
the teste , but does not include saccharin , any sugar or other carbohydrate or 
polyhydric alcohols . 
A .09. Coffee . 

A .09 .01. ( 1) Cofee ( green , raw or unroasted ) means the seed of Coffea arubien , 
Coffea liberica or Coffea robusta ; freed from all but a small portion of its sper 
moderm by decortication . 

( 2 ) Roasted Coffee means properly cleaned green coffee which has been 
roasted to a brown colour and has developed its characteristic aronzit . , 

( 3 ) Ground Coffee means the powdered product obtained from roasted coffee 
only and shall be free from husk . 

( 4 ) Coffee ( green , raw or unroasted ) , roasted coffee and ground coffee shall 
be free from any artificial colouring flavouring, facing, extraneous matter or 
glazing substances and shall be in sound , dry and fresh condition free from 
rancid or obnoxious favour . 

( 5 ) Coffee ( green , raw or unroasted ), roasted coffee and ground coffee 
shall conform to the following analytical standards : 
(1) Total ash (determined on the sample dried to constant weight at 100°C 

shall be feathery white or bluish white in colour and shall be n ! 
less than 3 . 5 per cent. und not more than 5 . 0 per cent. 
by weight of which not less than 65 per cent. shall 
be soluble in boiling distilled water . The ash insoluble in hot dilute 

HCL shall he not more than 001 per cent. 
( ii) The alkalinity of the ash per gramme of dried coffee shall be equivalent 

to not less than 3 . 4 inl. and not more than 4 . 4 ml. of N / 10 acid . 
( iii ) The caffeine content, as obtained by standard methods, shall be not 

less than 1 . 2 per cent. 
(iv ) The aqucous extract (determined by extraction of 2 grams of the sample 

dried to constant weight at 100° C with 100 ml. of boiling distilled 
water for one hour under reflux ) shall be not less than 25 per cent. 

and not more than 32 per cent. 
A .09 .02 , Chicory means the dried and roasted root of Chicorium intybus linn . 

A . 09 .03 , Coffee mixture or Coffee mixed with chicory or Coffee and chicory 
shall be pure ground coffee, mixed with roasted and ground chicory and shull be 
in sound , dry and dust free condition with no rancid or obnoxious flavour , 

Any tin or other receptacle containing a mixture of coffee and chicory shall 
not bear any misleading expression such as French coffee . 

A . 10 . Curry Powder ,-- - Curry powder shall contain not less than 85 per cent. 
by weight of condiments and spices belonging to the group of aromatic herbs and 
seeds such as black - pepper , cinnamon , cloves, coriander , cardamon , chillies , cumin 
seeds, fenugreek , garlic , ginger, mustard , poppy seeds, turmeric , mace, futineg , 
curry leaves, white pepper, saffron and aniseed , and shall not contain more than 
15 per cent. by weight of farinaceous matter and salt. If the manufacturer in 
cludes any spices , condiments , or any substance other than the aromatic herbs 
and seeds enumerated , the exact nature of such added ingredient or ingredients 
shall be specified on the wrapper or label prominently and such additions shall 
be made in lieu of, or partial replacement of farinaceous material and or salt 
quota . The aromatic seeds and herbs enumerated untitute the proper ingredients 
and one or more than one, or all of these may be used at the discretion of the 
manufacturer in the preparation of the curry powder . 
A . 11. Edible Fat. 

A . 11.01. Beeft fat or Suet means fat obtained from a beef carcass . It shall have 
a Saponification value varying from 193 to 200 and Iodine value from 35 to 46 . 

A . 11. 02. Mutton fat means fat obtained from the carcass of sheep . It shall 
have a Saponification value varying from 192 to 195 and an Iodine valuc from 
35 to 46 . 

A . 11 .03. Goat fat means the rendered fat from Goat. It shall have a Saroni 
fication value varying from 193 to 196 and an Iodinę value from 36 to 45 . 

A . 11 .04 . Lard means the rendered fat from hogs and shall not contain more 
than one per cent of substances other than fatty acids and fat. It shall have a 
Saponification value varying from 192 to 198 and an Iodine value from 52 to 65 . 


Pael II - SEC . 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15, 1953 

165 
= = = - - - - 
A . 12 . Edible Vegatable Oils . 

A . 12.01. Castor oil means oil obtained from Castor seeds (Ricinus communis ) 
by cold expression . It shall be clear and shall be free from rancidity , adulterants , 
sediments , suspended or other foreign matter , separated water and also added 
Colouring or flavouring substances or mineral oil. It shall conform to the follow 
ing standards : 
(vb ) Butyrorefractuincter reading at 40°C . 

. 66 . 4 to 7II 
(b ) Saponification valuie 

. 179 to 185 
c ) Iodine value (Wij s method ) 

: 82 to 90 
id Unsaponifiable datter . 

· Not more than 0 . 8 per cent. 
(c ) Free Fally acid as Oleic acid 

. Not more than 3 . 0 per cent. 


4 . 12 .02. Coconut oil ( Norwil -ka - tel ) means oil obtained by process of ex 
pressing copra obtained but I - rnel of Cocos nucifera nuts . It shall be clear and 
shall free from rancidity , ad . Tants , sediments , suspended or other foreign matter , 
stparated water and also added colouring or flavouring substances or mineral 
oil. It shall conform to the following standards : 

( a ) Butyrorefractoincter rcading at 40°C . . . 34 . 0 to 35 . 5 
(6 ) Saponification value 

250 to 257 
(c ) Iodinc value (Wij s method ) 

- 7 . 5 to 100 
d ) Unsaponifiable matter 

Not more thun 0 . 8 per cent, 
(c ) Frce Fatty acid as Oleic acid 

. Not more than 3 0 per cent. 


A . 12.03 . Cotton secd oil ( Binula -ka -tel ) means oil obtained by process of ex 
Missing clean , sound and decorticated Cotton seeds . It shall be clear and shall 
be free from rancidity adulterants , sediments , suspended or other foreign matter , 
separated water and also added colouring or llavouring substances or mineral 
oil. It shall conform to the following standards : 
(a ) Butyro refractometer reading al 10°C . 

: 57 : 9 to 60 . 2 
(6 ) Saponification value 

190 to 198 
( 0 ) Iodinc valuc (Wij s method ) 

105 to 112 
d ) Unsaponifiable matter 

Not more than 1 . 5 per cent. 
(e ) Free Fatty acids as Oleic acid 

. Not more than I o per cent . 


A . 12 . 04 . Groundnut oil (Moorgh - Phali -ka - tel ) means oil obtained by ex 
pression of clean and sound groundnuts ( Arachis hypogia ) . It shall be clear and 
shall be free from rancidity , adultrants , sediments suspended or other foreign 
matter, separated water and also added colouring or flavouring substances or 
inineral oil. It shall conform to the following standards: 

( a ) Butyrorefractometer reading at 401C , . 54 0 to 57 : 1 
(O ) Saponification value 

. 188 to 195 
(c) Iodine value (Wij s method ) . 

87 to 98 
(d ) Unsaponifiable matter 

Not more than I 0 per cent. 
( c ) Free Fatty acids as Oleic acid , 

Not more than 3 . 0 per cent. 
( f) Bellier teet turbidity temperature 

. 39°C to 41°C . 


A . 12. 05 . Linseed oil ( Alsi - ka - tel ) means oil obtained by process of expressing 
clean and sound linseed . It shall be clear and shall be free from rancidity , adul 
terants , sediments suspended or other foreign matter , separated water and also 
added colouring or flavouring substances or mineral oil. It shall conform to the 
following standards: 
(a ) Butyroprefractometer reading at 40°C 

69 . 5 to 72 . 0 
(6 ) Saponification valuc 

188 to 195 
(c ) Iodine value (Wij s method ) 

175 to 180 
( d ) Unsaponifiable matter . 

. Not more than I 2 per cent, 
( 6) I ree Fatty acids as Oleic acid , 

Notmore than 2 . 0 per cent. 


A . 12 . 06 . Mahua oil means oil obtained by a process of expressing the clean and 
sound seeds or nuts of Madhuca ( Bassia latifolia or longifolia or mixture of both ) . 
It shall be clear and shall be free from rancidity , adulterants , sediments , suspended 
or other foreign matter , separated water and also added colouring or flavouring 
substances or mineral oil . It shall conform to the following standards: 
(a ) Butyrorefractometer reading at 40°C . 

· 49 . 5 to 52 : 7 
(6 ) Saponification value 

. 187 to 196 
(c ) Iodino value (Wij s method ) , , , , 58 to 70 
d ) Unsaponifiablc matter 

Not more than 2 . 0 per cent. 
(o ) Free Fatty acids as Oleic acid . 

Not more than 10 . 0 per cent. 


166 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 16, 1955 [PART II Sec. 3 

= 

_ = _ = - = - = - = - = 
A . 12. 07 . Mustard Oil means oil obtained by process of expressing the clean 
and sound Mustard seeds, belonging to the compestri s , Juncea or napus Vancties 
of Brussica . It shall be clear and shall be free from rancidity , adulterants , sedi 
ments, suspended or other foreign matter separated water and also added colouring 
or flavouring substances or mineral oil. It shall conform to the following standards: 
(a ) Butyro - refractometer reading at 40°C . 

. 58 . 0 to 6110 
(b ) Saponification value 

170 to 177 
( d ) Iodine value (Wij s method ) 

96 to 108 
( d ) Unsaponifiable matter 

Not more than I . 2 per cent. 
( e) Free fatty acide as Oleic acid 

Not more than 3 . 0 per cent. 
( ) Relative viscosity at 40°C 

• 60 to 63. 


A . 12 .08 . Olive Oil means oil obtained by process of expressing the ripe fruit 
Olea eureopea . It shall be clear and shall be free from rancidity , adulterants , 
sediments , suspended or other foreign matter separated water and also added 
colouring or flavouring substances or mineral oil. It shall conform to the follow 
ing standards : 

(a ) Butyrorefractometer reading at 40°C . . 53 to 66 
( b ) Saponification value 

. 185 to 196 
(c) Iodine value (Wij s method ) 

valus ) 8 incurio4 ) . 
. . . . 79 to 90 
d ) Unsaponifiable matter 

Not more than 1 : 0 per cent. 
(e ) Free fatty acids as Olev acid 

. Not more than 3 . 0 per cent. 


A . 12 . 09 , Poppy seed oil means oil obtained by expressing the poppy seed 
( Papaver somniferum ) . It shall be clean and shall be free from rancidity , 
adulterants , sediments , suspended or other foreign matter , separated water and 
also colouring or flavouring substances or mineral oil. It shall conform to the 
following standards: 

( a ) Butyrorefractometer reading at 40°C . . 60 to 64 
(6 ) Saponification values 

186 to 194 
(c ) Iodine value (Wij s method ) 

, 133 to 143 
(d ) Unsaponifiable matter . 

. Not more than I o per cent , 
Free fatty acids as Oleic acid 

. Not more than 3 . 0 per cent, 


A . 12 . 10 . Safflower oil ( Barrey -ka - tel ) means oil obtained by expressing the 
seeds of Carthamus tinctorius. It shall be clear and shall be free from rancidity . 
adulterants , sediments , suspended or other foreign matter , separated water and 
also colouring or favouring substances or mineral oil. It shall conform to the 
following standards : 

(a ) Butyro -refractometer reading at 40°C . . 62 . 4 to 64 : 7 
(6 ) Saponification value 

189 . 5 to 186 . 0 
(c ) Iodinc value (Wij s method ) . . . 135 . 2 to 135 . 6 
( d ) Unsaponifiable matter 

Not more than I o per cent. 
( ) Free fatty acids as Oleic acid 

. Not more than 3 . 0 per cent . 


A .12. 11. Taramira Oil means oil obtained by process of expressing the clean 
and sound seeds of Taramira ( Eruca sativa ) . It shall be clear and shall be free 
from rancidity , adulterants , sediments , suspended or other foreign matter, separat 
ed water and also added colouring or flavouring substances or mineral oil. It 
shall conform to the following standards: 
(a ) Butyrorcfractometer reading at 40°C . 

58 . 0 to 60° 
(b ) Saponification value 

174 to 177 
(C ) Iodine value (Wij s method ) 

99 to IOS 
d ) Unsaponifiable matter 

Not more than I O per cent. 
(c ) Free fatty acids as Oleic acid 

Notmore than 3 . 0 per cent, 


A . 12 . 12 . Til Oil (Gingelly or Sesarne Oil ) means oil obtained by process of 
expressing clean and sound seeds of Til ( Sesamum indicum ) , black brown , white 
or mixed . It shall be clear and shall be free from rancidity , adulterants , sedi 
ments , suspended or other foreign matter , separated water , and also added colour 
ing or flavouring substances or mineral oil. It shall conform to the following 
standards : 
( a ) Butyrorefractometer reading at 40°C . 

, 580 to 60 . 5 
(0 ) Saponification value 

188 to 193 
( c) Iodine value (Wij s method) . 

. 105 to IIS 
Unsaponiflable matter 

. Not more than I s per cent. 
( ) Free fatty acids as Oleic acid . 

Not more than 3 . 0 per cent . 


PART II - SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 
= = - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - = 


167 
= = 


- - - - - 


A . 13. Cereals . 

A . 13 .01. Foodgrain offered for human consumption shall be sweet, clean , dry , 
and free from mould , insect damage , bad smell, discolouration and admixture 
with deleterious and toxic material and in respect of these criteria , shall fulfil 
the following requirements : 
( a ) Colour, — The grain as far as possible shall have its normal colour but 

mere discolouration shall not make it unfit if repellent smell or taste 

has not developed . 
(b ) Smell. Persistent bad smell not removable by sunning and airing 

shall be indicative of unhealthy deterioration of grain and its 
presence therefore shall make the grain unfit for human consump 

tion . 
( e ) Taste .-- Development of bad taste, 2. ., bitterness in old bajri, shall 

make the foodgrain unfit for human consumption . In case of doubt 
the grain shall inveriably be subjected to consumers trial after 

cooking . 
( d ) Foreign Matter.---Which includes sand , gravel, dirt, stones , pebbles , 

straw , stems, chaff, cockles , oil seeds and other non - poisonous seeds; 

but excludes other foodgrains , shall not exceed 4 per cent. by weight. 
( e ) Foreign Foodgrains shall not exceed a limit of 10 per cent in the case 

of any foodgrain except rice where the limit (including paddy ) shall 
not exceed 3 per cent. In the case of Jowar the presence of grains 
of different shades of colour shall not be regarded as an admixture 

with foreign grains. 
(f ) Damaged Grains including damaged , touched, mouldy and " Shrivelled " 

grains shall not exceed a total of 10 per cent. of which mouldy grain , 

after superficial cleaning , shall not be more than 1 . 5 per cent. 
( e ) Insect Damaged Grains shall not exceed the limit of 6 per cent. 
( h ) Moisture Contents . When a thoroughly representative sample of the 

grain is ground to fine condition and dried in a moisture oven at a 
temperature of 100 - 105°C the loss in weight due to moisture shall not 
exceed 12 per cent for wheat and 15 per cent. for rice , maize , bajra , 

jowar , ragi and gram . 
( 1) Şound Grains. — Notwithstanding the permissible limits stated under ( a ) 

to ( h ) above the percentage of normal and sound grains must in no 
case be lower than 80 per cent. of the total foodgrains, inclusive of 

the percentage under item ( e ) Foreign Foodgrains. 
A . 13 .02 . Atta means the coarse product obtained by milling or grinding wheat 
and sieving it. It shall not contain more than 2 . 5 per cent. of ash calculated on 
dry weight basis and not less than 8 per cent. of gluten . 

A . 13 .03 . Maida means the Ane product made by milling or grinding wheat and 
bolting or dressing the resulting wheat meal. It shall contain not more than 1 
per cent. of ash calculated on dry weight, basis and not less than 8 . 0 per cent. 
of gluten . 
A . 14 . Milk and Milk Products . 

A . 14 .01. Milk means the normal clean and fresh secretion obtained by complete 
milking of the udder of a healthy cow , buffalo , goat, sheep or any other animal, 
during the period following at least 72 hours after calving or until colostrum 
free , whether such secretion has been processed or not. 

Cow Milk shall contain not less than 3 . 5 per cent of milk fat, except in Orissa , 
Madras and Travancore - Cochin where it shall be 3 per cent. The milk solids 
content, other than milk fat , shall not be below 8 . 5 per cent. 

Buffalo Mill shall contain not less than 5 . 0 per cent of milk fat. The milk 
solids content, other than milk fat , shall not be below 9 per cent. 

Goat or Sheep milk shall contain not less than 3 . 0 per cent of milk fat. The 
milk solids content, other than milk fat , shall not be below 9 per cent. 

Where milk other than skimmed milk , is sold or offered for sale without 
any indication as to whether it is derived from cow , buffalo , goat , or sheep , the 
standard prescribed for cow milk shall apply . 

A . 14 .02. Skimmed milk means milk from which all or most of the milk fat 
has been removed by mechanical or any other process and includes " separated 


on cut sollte die 


168 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 [ PART II - SEC. 3 

- = - = 

- = 
milk " or " machine skimmed milk " . The milk solids content, other than milk 
fat , shall not be below 8 . 5 per cent. 

A . 14.03 . Butter -milk means the product obtained after removal of butter from 
curds by churning or otherwise . 
Explanation . In churning it is permissible to add water to curds for facilita 
ting i 

e resultant butter -milk shall not contain 
milk 

fat, below the prescribed standard . 
A . 14 . 04 . Butter means the product prepared exclusively from the milk or 
cream of cow or buffalo , or both , with or without the addition of salt , and ghall 
contain not less than 80 per cent of milk fat and not more than 16 per cent of 
moisture , except that in the States of Assam , Madras and West Bengal, the 
minimum moisture content may be increased to 20 per cent for home made or 
deshi butter . No colouring matter or preservative is permissible in butter . 

A . 14 .05 . Dahi or Curd . — ( al Whole milk dahi or curd means the product 
obtained from fresh whole milk either of cow or buffalo by natural souring . It 
shall not contain any ingredient not found in milk , 

(b ) Skimmed milka dahi or curd means the product obtained from skimmer 
milk either of cow or buffalo by natural souring . It shall not contain and 
ingredient not found in milk . 

The standard of purity of dahi or curd shall be the same as prescribed for the 
milk from which it is derived . 

A . 14 .06 . Condensed milk means milk which has been concentrated from full 
cream natural milk by removal of part of its water with or without the addition 
of sugar , and includes the article commonly known as evaporated milk but 
does not include the article commonly known as dried milk or milk powder . 
It shall be free from preservatives other than sugar and contain at least 31 per 
cent of milk solids of which at least 9 per cent shall be fat. 

A . 14 .07 . Condensed skimmed milk means skimmed milk which has been con 
centrated by removal of part of its water with or without the addition of sugar . 
The total solids including milk fat shall not be below 26 . 0 per cent in sweetened 
variety and 20 per cent in the unsweetened variety . 

A . 14 . 08 . Chhanna means the product obtained by precipitating the curd from 
boiling whole milk of cow and buffalo by the addition of lactic or citric acids. 

Chhanna prepared from cow s milk shall contain a minimum of 15 per cent. of 
milk fat and that from buffalo milk a minimum of 20 per cent. 

In chhanna prepared from skimmed milk the total solids -not - lat shall not be 
legs than 20 per cent. 

A . 14 . 09 . Cream means that portion of milk rich in milk fat which has risen 
to the surface of milk on standing and has been removed or which has been 
separated from milk by centrifugal force It shall contain not less than 40 per 
cent of milk fat and shall not contain any added substance. The fat separated 
from cream shall conform to the specification prescribed for ghee . 

A . 14 . 10 . Dried milk or Milk powder or Dessicated milk means whole milk or 
skimmed milk which has been concentrated to the form of powder or solid by 
the removal of water . It shall not contain any ingredient not found in milk . 

A . 14 . 11, Ice - cream means the frozen food made with cream , milk or other 
milk products, sweetened with sugar or honey and with or without ( a ) egg (b ) 
fruits ( c ) nuts and ( d ) permissible flavour or colour . It shall contain not less 
than 36 per cent by weight of solids and 10 per cent by weight of milk fat except 
when the Ice - cream contains fruits or nuts or both , the content of milk fat may 
be proportionately reduced but not to less than 8 .0 per cent. by weight. It shall 
not contain any starch , artificial sweetening agent or any other extraneous 
matter. Ice - cream prepared from skimmed milk shall not contain less than 
8 . 5 per cent. of milk solids other than milk fat. 


A . 14 . 12 . Mixed Ice - Creain means the same as ice - cream in composition except 
that it may contain starch or any other innocuous Aller . The tat content and 
total solid content should be the same as prescribed for ice - cream . Saccharine 
may be used as sweetening agent but not in quantities more than 6 . 6 grains per 
gallon of milk or the mother liquor as the case may be . 

A . 14 . 13 . Khoa means the product derived from milk of cow or buffalo by 
partial desslcation of water therefrom by the process of heating and it shall not 
contain any ingredient not found in milk . The molşture content of khoa shall 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


PART 11 - Sec . 31 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 

169 
- - - - 
not exceed 10 per cent and in the case of khoa derived from whole milk the 
fat content shall not be less than 20) per Celil . 

A . 14 . 14 . Ghee . - Cow and buflalo ghee means the pure clarified fat derived 
solely fron the milk of these animals or from the curds of such milk to which 
no colouring matter or preservative has been added . It shall conform to the 
following two specifications: 
( 1) All - India specifications ( for areas other than cotton tracts ) : 

(a ) Butyrorefractometer reading at 40°C . . . 40 . 0 to 43 . 0 
(b ) Reichert value . . . . . . Not less than 28 . 0 
(c) Free Fatty acids as Oleic acid . . . Not more than 2 5 per cent. 


( 2 ) Regional Specifications ( for cotton tracts ) : 

IX inter 

Summer 
Scpt. to Feb . 

March to Aug . 
(1 ) Butyrorefractometer reading at 40 C 51 . 5 to 44 0 

40 . 0 to 43 . 0 
. . . . Not less than 24 . 0 Not less than 21 . 0 
(c) Free Fatty acids as Oleic acid . Not inore than 25 Not more than 205 

per cent, 

per cent, 


nic 


Explanation . By cotton tract is meant the areas in Saurashtra and Madhya 

Pradesh where cotton seed is extensively fed to the cattle . 
A . 14 .15 Waste Ghee means the residue left in the process of manufacturing 
ghce from unclarified butter . 

A . 15 . Margarine means any article of food wh ch lesembles butter in con 
sistency , appearance and moisture content but which does not contain more than 
10 per cent of milk fat, the rest being animal fat or vegetable oil product or 
both . It shall contain at least 80 per cent of fat and not more than 16 per cent 
of moisture. 

A . 16 . Saffron means dried stigmata and tops of styles of Crocus sativus, and 
( a ) it must not contain any foreign colouring matter or any other foreign matter , 
organic or inorganic , e . g . sugar , barium sulphate , chalk , gypsum and sodium . 
sulphate , ( b ) it must not lose more than 12 per i ent of its weight when dried 
at 100 C (212 F ) to constant weight, and ( c ) it must not contain more than 5 
per cent of petroleum ether extract. 

A . 17 . Tea means tea derived exclusively from the leaves and buds of plants 
of the Camellia genus and thea species . It shall conform to the following speci 
fications : 

(c ) Total ash determined on ten dried to a constant 

weight at 100°C . . . . . . 40 to 80 per cent. 
(b) Total ash solublc in boiling distilled water . Not less than 40 0 per cent, 
( c) Total ash insoluble in dilute mineral acid . . Not more than t o per cent. 


A . 18 , Hydrogenated Vegetable Oil Product or Vanaspati means any article 
of food resembling ghee which consists of refined hydrogenated edible vegetable 
oils and not more than 10 perront of milk fat . It shall be prepared by hydro 
genation from any of the harmless vegetable oils or mixtures thereof except 
marine, mineral and animal oils . It shall conform to the standards specified 
below : 

i. It shall not contain any harmful colouring, flavouring or any other 

natter deleterious to health . 
ii. It shall not have moisture exceeding 0 . 23 per cent. 
jii. The melting point as estimated by the capillary slip method shall be 

from 33°C to 37°C , both inclusive with a tolerance of 20 C on either 

side. 
iv . The Butyrorefractometer reading at 40 C shall not be less than 48°C . 
V . It shall not have unsaponiflable matter exceeding 1 , 5 per cent. 
vi. It shall not have free fatty acids ( calculated as oleic acid ) exceeding 

0 . 25 per cent. 
vii. It shall not contain diacetyal, if any, exceeding six parts per million . 


170 

THE GAZETTE OF INDJA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 [ PART II-. Sec . 3 
- - - = = _ . - - - 

SS - - = 
viil . The product on melting shall be clear in appearance and its taste shall 

be free from staleness or rancidity . 
ix . It shall contain not less than 5 per cent by weight of refined or refined 

hydrogenated sesame ( til ) oil. 
x . No colouring shall be added to hydrogenated oil unless so authorised 

by Government, but in no event any colour resembling the colour of 

yhee shall be added. 
xi, No flavouring substances other than the following may be used for the 

flavouring of hydrogenated oil either singly or in combination in a 
total quantity exceeding 25 parts per million : 
1. Ethylbutyrate . 
2 , Ethylcaproate . 
3 . Isopropylbutyrate . 
4 . Ethylcaprylate . 
5 . Coumarin . 
6 . Vanillin . 
7. Benzaldehyde , 
8 . Amyl acetate . 


A . 19. Vinegar : 

A . 19 . 01 . Vinegar means a liquid derived from alcoholic and acctous fermenta 
tion of a vegetable juice or infusion . 


A . 19 .02. The principal varieties of vinegar are as follows: 
( a ) Malt vinegar means vinegar derived wholly from malted barley or 

wholly from cereals , the starch of which has been saccharified by the 

diastase of malt ; 
( b ) Cider vinegar , means vinegar made by the alcoholic and acetic fer 

mentation of the juice of apples ; 
( c ) Distilled vinegar , or Malt vinegar , means vinegar prepared by distilling 

malt vinegar ; 
( d ) Wood rinegar , means vinegar prepared by diluting acetic acid , and 

sometimes colouring the product with caramel; 
( e ) Artificial vinegar , means any vinegar or substitute for vinegar con . 

taining , or derived from any preparation containing , and added acetic 
acid not wholly the product of alcoholic and acetous fermentations 


A . 19.03. Vinegar shall conform to the following standards: 

( 1 ) It shall contain at least 4 grammes of acetic acid per 100 millilitres. 
( 2 ) It must contain at least 1 . 5 W / V per cent. of total solids and 0 . 18 per 

cent of ash . 
( 3 ) It shall not contain sulphuric acid or any other mineral acids, lead or 

copper . 
( 4 ) It shall not contain arsenic in amou Ixceeding 1 . 5 parts per million 

parts of vinegar. 
(5 ) It shall not contain any foreign substance or colouring matter except 

caramel. 
( 6 ) Malt vinegar , in addition , shall have at least 0 .05 per cent. of phos 

phorus pentoxide ( P2 Q5) and 0 . 04 per cent of nitrogen , 


A . 20 . Edible Common Salt means a crystalline solid , white or pale pink or 
light grey in colour , frce from visible contamination with clay , grit and other 
extraneous adulterants and impurities. It shall not contain moisture in exces : 
of 6 per cent of the weight of the undried sample . It shall contain ( a ) at least 
96.0 per cent, by weight of sodium chloride (NaCl), ( b ) not more than 1.0 por 
cent by welght of matter insoluble in water, and ( c ) not more than 3 . 0 per 
cent by weight of matter soluble in water other than sodlum chloride. 

[No. PFA / DOC23 /F9- 1 / 88 - D . ] 
N . B . CHATTERJI, Dy. Secy . 


Paur IT-Sic.3 THE 


- 


- 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 

171 
= - - 

- - - - - 
MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 6th January 1955 
S . R . O . 165 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the All India Industrial Tribunul, ( Colliery Disputes ) in the matter of an applica 
tion under section 33A of the said Act from Shri Ramdayal Dhobi, a workman of 
the North Chandameta Colliery . 


ALL INDIA INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (COLLIERY DISPUTES ) , CALCUTTA 
In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 

Act, 1947 
APPLICATION No . 30 or 1954 

PRESENT 
Shri J. N . Majumdar — Chairman . 
Prof. H , R . Batheja – Member . 
Shri S . P . Chopra - Member , 

PARTIES 
Ramdayal Dhobi, Shotfirer, North Clandameta Colliery , C / O . M . P . Mines 

Technical Workers & Staff Union , Chandameta , P .O . Parasia , Distt., 
Chhindwara , M . P . — Complainant. 

Versus 
The Pench Valley Coal Co., Ltd ., P .O . Box No. 70 , Calcutta . – Opposite Party . 

APPEARANCES 
Shri O . P . Mchta , President, M .P . Mincs Technical Workers & Staff Union 

For Complainant. 
Shri S . S . Sharma, Auditor of the Company - For Opposite Party . 


AWARD 

(Dated the 20th day of December 1954 ) 
This is a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

2 . The complainant was a workman employed in the Chandameta Colliery as a 
Shotfirer . His case is that in spite of his holding the certificate of a Sirdar No. 
10952, he was employed as a Shotfirer in 1946 and although he worked for 10 years 
with a clean record , he was denied his chance as a Sirdar and he was superseded 
by his juniors as Overmen . He was chargesheeted and dismissed by the Company 
on 5th April 1954 without obtaining the written permission of the Tribunal, as 
required under section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . He stated that he 
had been victimised becausc he took part in the activities of the union , of which 
he was a member and which was controlled by Shri O . P . Mehta , who was engag 
ing himself in an election rivalry with the local branch of the I. N . T . U . C . Union 
led by Shri S . S . Sharma, an Auditor of the Company and supported by the Com 
nany, and also because he was a party to the agitation on the matters in dispute 

fore this Tribunal. He further states that the Penal Clause of the Industrial 
Employment ( Standing Orders ) Act and the Company s Standing Orders had been 
violated 

3 . The Company denies that the complainant was victimised and states that 
the complainant was charge - sheeted on 29th March 1954 for negligence of work 
and 4 other specified items of misconduct, viz ., ( 1 ) neglect of work , ( 2 ) breach of 
the Indian Mincs Act (Regulation 106 ) , ( 3 ) disorderly behaviour in the mine, ( 4 ) 
wilful insubordination , and was directed to show cause why his services should 
not be terminated for the misconduct complained of . The Company in due course 
enquired into the charges with notice to the complainant and on the result of a full 
conducted enquiry was satisfied that he was guilty of misconduct and dismissed 
him from service by a notice , dated 5th April 1954. The Company asks for con 
donation of the inadvertent breach of Section 33 of the Act. 

4 . Two points have been urged on behalf of the Company , one of which 
indirectly and the other directly , relates to the question of maintainability of this 
application . Under Section 33A an application is maintainable only when Section 


172 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1955 [ PART II --Sec. 3 

- - - - 

- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - 
33 has been contravened . Admittedly , in this case , there has been the contra 
vention , but the Company asks for its condonation under the circumstances 
mentioned in its statement. The effect of this condonation , if the Tribunal hos 
got the power to allow it, will be as if no contravention had taken place and , 
therefore the application under Section 33A would not be maintainable . 

5 . Section 33 prohibits the employer , inter alia , from discharging or punishin 
by way of dismissal or otherwise, any workman concerned in any pending dispute 
before the Tribunal, save with the express permission in writing of such Tribunal 
The contravention of Section 33 is followed by two legal consequences : 
(i) the contravention becomes : 

( a ) an offence , 

( b ) punishable under Section 31 ( 2 ) of the Act. 
( ii ) an employee aggrieved , by such contravention , acquires a right to make 
a complaint under Section 33A , which , the appropriate Tribunal is required to 
adjudicatę upon as if it were a dispute before it and make its Award under the 
provisions of the Act . In other words, special right is conferred on the employee 
aggrieved to have the question of his dismissal or discharge, during the pendency 
of any proceedings , adjudicated upon as a dispute by the Tribunal before which 
such proceedings are pending, without any reference by the Government under 
section 10 of the said Act. 

6 . The power of the Tribunal under Section 33 is only either to grant or refuse 
permission . It does not extend to granting permission after the contravention had 
haken place . The power of the Tribunal under Section 33A is to adjudicate upon 
the question raised as a dispute. Besides the above, no other power has been con 
ferred on the Tribunal to make an order which affects any substantive right 
acquired on account of the contravention of the provisions of Section 33 . We, 
therefore, hold that the Tribunal has no power to condone the contravention of 
Section 33 of the Act and that the complaint under Section 33A is maintainable . 

7 . The other point is that the complaint has not been made by the person 
aggrieved , but by Shri O . P . Mehta , President, M . P . Mines Technical Workers and 
Staf Union , Chandameta , P . O . Parasia , Dist . Chhindwara . It appears that the 
complaint was made by Ramdayal Dhobi, the complainant himself, but the 
application was signed by Shri O . P . Mehta . Under Section 36 of the Act, the 
eomplainant is entitled to he represented in any proceedings under this Act by un 
officer of a registered Trade Union , of which he is a member . In this case S * 
O . P . Mehta is an officer of a registered Trade Union and the complainant is WI 
member of that Union . He is , therefore , entitled to be represented by Shri O . P .& 
Mehta , who, having been duly authorised by the complainant to sign , appear and 
argue on his behalf , was also entitled to sign this application . Both the points 
urged on behalf of the Company tailing , we proceed to consider the merits of the 
complaint. 

8 . On 29th March 1954 the Company framed several charges against the com 
plainant and gave him an opportunity to meet them . Afterwards an enquiry was 
Hold by the Company and the Manager , found that 4 of the charges, as mentioned 
in the letter of dismissal , dated 5th April 1954, viz ., ( 1 ) neglect of work , ( 2 ) breach 
of the Indian Mines Act (Regulation 106 ) , ( 3 ) disorderly behayiour in the mines 
and ( 4 ) wllful insubordination , had been substantiated and that one of the 
charges, viz ., inciting the co - workers to join him in leaving the respective working 
places , was not proved and consequently dropped , and the complainant was dis 
missed on 5th April 1954 . It is not disputed that the complainant was dismissed 
for misconduct, after an enquiry with notice to the complainant. 

9 . In the case of Buckingham & Carnatic Mills reported in 1952 LAC , page 490 , 
the Labour Appellate Tribunal held that in the case of dismissal for misconduct if 
there was evidence to support the action of the management, the Tribunal will 
not substitute its own judgment for the judgment of the management but the 
decision of the management could be reviewed if there was ; 

( i ) want of bona fides , 
( ii ) it is a case of victimisation and unfair labour practice of the manage 

ment or violation of principles of natural justice , 
( iii) there is a basic crror of facts , or, 

( iv ) there has been a perverse finding of facts . 
10 . We have carefully examined the charges and the Andings of the manage 
ment as also the evidence laid before us and we are satisfied that none of the 


PART II - SEC. 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 16, 1955 


173 


elements mentioned above calling for a review of the management s decision has 
been proved . 

11. It has been urged that the complainant is a shotfirer and , therefore , if there 
was a breach of the Indian Mines Act , 1933 he should have been punished by the 
Mines Inspector for alleged breach of Standing Orders instead of dismissing an 
old worker . In support of this contention it is urged that under Section 14 sub 
section 6 of the Industrial Employment ( Standing Orders ) Central Rules, 1946 , to 
which all standing orders must conform , the Manager , in awarding punishment 
under his standing orders , should take into account the gravity of misconduct , the 
previous records, if any, of the workman and any other extenuating or aggravat 
ing circumstances that may exist and that a copy of the order passed by the 
Manager should be supplied to the workman concerned . The complainant further 
contends that there is no previous record of his misconduct and that the gravity 
of his offence is mitigated by the Manager s finding in para . 5 of his order of dis 
missal, dated 5th April 1954, dropping the charge framed against him for inciting 
his co -workers to join him in lcaving the respective working places. Finally , the 
complainant pressed for reinstatement with full compensation and costs of this 
application , in view of his contention that the order of dismissal is illegal and 
vindictive as it contravenes the provisions of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act 1947 and also Section 14 (6 ) of the Industrial Employment ( Standing Orders ) 
Central Rules, 1946 . 


12 . The Company argued that the complainant neglected his work on the date 
Mi question for 4 hours and committed serious offence punishable under Regulation 
106 of the Indian Mines Act, violated the standing orders and committed every 
offence of which he was proved to be guilty after a regular charge - sheet and trial 
and has, therefore , been justly dismissed , No extenuating circumstances exist to 
prevent his dismissal as his previous records were bad and in support of the last 
contention they have filed copies of previous complaints against him ( Ex . No . 0 - 2 
& 0 - 1 , dated 20th October 1953 and 15th October 1953 ) . Under the first charge 
sheet he was warned and excused for the last time and under the second charge 
sheet he was charged with misconduct under para . 10 ( 1 ) of the Standing Orders for 
breach of the Indian Mines Act and theft in connection with the Company s pro 
perty . It is further contended by the Company, in reply to a question from us, 
that production on the date in question was hampered due to the misconduct of 
the complainant and output suffered in the third shift . Their contention is sup 
ported by the statement filed before us showing raising figures in tubs of North 
Chandameta Collicry . It shows that in the third shift against a raising of 152 on 
2 .) March 1954, thc raising on 27th March 1954 was as low as 77 , and the total 
iur the day was the lowest in the week , viz ., 330 against 423 on the preceding day 
and 398 on the succeeding Monday , viz ., 29th March 1954. 


13 . After carefully considering the evidence on record , the papers Aled and the 
oral arguments urged on both sides, we find that the complainant had a bad record 
of warnings against him and committed serious offences punishable under the 
Indian Mines Act and under the Standing Orders, was charge - sheeted and , judging 
from the report of the Manager (Ex , No. 0 - 3 ) , received a fair trial. While 
exonerated on one charge of inciting his co - workers to join him in leaving their 
respective working places , he was convicted of the more serious charge of neglect 
of work , breach of Regulation 106 of the Indian Mines Act , disorderly behaviour 
in the mine and wilful insubordination . The nett result of his conduct was a 
decline in production for the day , which hampered the work of other wage 
earners and caused loss to the Company. There are no extenuating circumstances 
and it is not necessary for an accident to take place , as suggested by the com 

lainant, before the Indian Mines Act is enforced in the interests of the safety of 
the mine and its workers. The misconduct of the workman was grave enough to 
justify the company in taking the necessary steps against him . No proof has been 
adduced of victimisation or unfair treatment and no violation of Section 14 ( 6 ) of 
the Industrial Employment ( Standing Orders ) Central Rules 1947 has taken place . 


14. We are of opinton that the order made by the Company is justified and the 
complaint must stand dismissed . We are also satisfied that on the facts of the 
case the complainant is not entitled to any compensation by reason of the fact that 
this was contravention of the provisions of Section 33 of the Act. 

( Sd .) J. N . MAJUMDAR , Chairman , 
(Sd.) H . R . BATHEJA , Member. 
( Sd.) S . P . CHỌPRA , Member . 

[No . LR - 2 ( 107 ) /55.] 


174 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1965 


[PART II - SEC. $ . 


S . R . O . 166. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 (XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the follow 
ing award of the All India Industrial Tribunal, (Colliery Disputes ) in the 
matter of an application under section 33A of the said Act from Shri R . P . 
Yaday and three others , workmen of the Pench Valley Coal Co. Ltd ., Calcutta . 
ALL INDIA INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL ( COLLIERY DISPUTES ) CALCUTTA 
In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 

Act, 1947. 
APPLICATION No. 33 OF 1954 

PRESENT 
Shri J. N . Majumdar - Chairman . 
Shri H . R . Batheja — Member . 
Shri S . P . Chopra - Member. 

PARTIES 
( 1 ) R . P . Yadav and A . Aziz Khan , Motor Drivers , Chandameta Work 

shop ; and 
( 2 ) Narayandas and Sunny Edward , C / O M . P . Mines Technical Worker 

and Staff Union , Chandameta , P . O . Parasia , Distt . Chhindwara , 
M , P . - Complainants. 

1 Vs. 
The Pench Valley Coal Co., Ltd., P . O . Box No . 70, Calcutta — Opposite 
Party . 

APPEARANCES 
Shri O . P . Mehta , President, M . P . Mines Technical Workers & Staff 

Union - -For Complainants. " 
Shri S . S . Sharma, Auditor of the Company - For Opposite Party . 


AWARD 


( Dated the 20th day of December 1954 ) 
This is a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

2 . The complainants alleged that the opposite party had contravened Sec 
tion 25G of the Industrial Disputes ( Amendment) Act, 1963 by retrenching 
the services of Shri R . P . Yadav and A . Aziz Khan , marked 1 above, and that 
the opposite party has contravened section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, by victimising Narayandas and Sunny Edward , marked 2 above, during 
the pendency of proceedings before the Tribunal by transterring them to the 
Rewa Coalfields of the same company, viz ., Shaw Wallace & Co., situated 250 
miles away from their home. 


3 . At the outset it was urged , on behalt of the opposite party , that the pre 
sent proceedings under section 33 of the Act are not maintainable at the instance 
of Shri O . P . Mehta , President of the M . P . Mines Technical Workers & Staff Unior 
at Chandameta , Parasia . Against this Shri O . P . Mehta , in a written statemen 
filed before us, argued that the workmen concerned are members of the Union 
and are entitled to be represented by him as its President under section 30 
sub - section 1 of the Act. We accept this contention of Shri Mehta as correct 
and allow him to appear on behalf of the complainants . The opposite party 
further urged that as Ramprosad Yadav is the junior -most driver in the estab 
lishment of the Company , section 25G of the Industrial Disputes (Amend 
ment) Act, 1953 , has not been violated , that he has refused to work under the 
officer appointed to supervise the work and , therefore , his services were ter 
minated by offering him compensation provided under the Industrial Disputes 
(Amendment) Act, 1953 . It urged the same plea in the case of Abdul Aziz 
Khan also as it contends that his services were terminated on medical grounds 
and giving him proper compensation as required by law . Regarding Narayan 
das and Sunny Edward (marked 2 above ) , the opposite party contends that 
there was no victimisation as they have been transferred from Chandameta 
workshop to Umaria and Burhar collleries in accordance with the Company s 
practice , which does not alter the conditions of service to the prejudice of the 
workmen . 


PART II — SEC. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 16, 1955 


175 


- 


4 . Regarding Ramprosad Yadav, the opposite party contends that he is the 
junior -most driver in the establishment. He was employed on 15th June 1951 
and was dismissed from employment on 1st December 1953 for gross miscon 
duct after two or three official warnings. The Company , however , on com 
passionate considerations, re - employed him taking an undertaking from him to 
be of good behaviour and conduct in future. In spite of repeated warnings he 
was found acting in a manner subversive of discipline and was also roughly 
driving and handling the Company s vehicles causing frequent damages to 
them . His conduct, therefore , came in for frequent censure by the Head 
Mechanic under whom he and all other drivers were working, and on 1st April 
1954 the Company received an application from Ramprosad Yadav that he was 
not prepared to work under this Mechanic and wanted a transfer to some other 
place . As the Company had no other employment for him in any other place , 
his request was turned down . The workman , however , refused to work under 
the Mochanic, as a result whereof he was found redundant. There being no 
alternative job for him , the Company terminated his services by a notice dated 
6th April 1954 by offering him compensation provided under the Industrial Dis 
putes ( Amendment) Act , 1953. The opposite party contends that as the ter 
mination of his employ was of his own seeking in the circumstances described 
above, his complaint is unfounded . 


5 . On behalf of Ramprosad Yadav it was urged that it was not true that he 
was the junior -most driver and that others Suraj and Razak have put in even 
less years of service as drivers in the establishment of the opposite party . The 
seniority of Suraj and Razak , however, was denied by the opposite party , as it 
was pointed out that Suraj was & Dak Peon and Razak a conductor only on the 
rolls of the Company . They have not been promoted to the drivers post and 
it cannot be said that because they know driving they were promoted to 
drivers posts , because anyone may have a driving licence but may not have a 
driver s post . It was, therefore, maintained that Ramprosad Yaday is the 
Junior -most driver and , therefore , the termination of his services on the 
ground of redundancy does not violate any legal provision when every provi 
sion of law has been satisfied . It was further urged that Ramprosad Yadav was 
charge - sheeted several times and his services were dismissed but he was re 
employed with a warning to improve and he never improved . In reply to our 
question whether Ramprosad Yaday was being harassed by the superior 
Mechanic either Independently or under instructions from someone else , the 
opposite party denied such a suggestion . A breakdown report from the Super 
vising Mechanic on Ramprosad Yadav s work was received and the manage 
ment satisfied itself that it was true. It was produced before us and we are 
satisfied that it was a correct report. Ramprosad Yaday seems to have com 
plained that his Supervising Mechanic was bad , and , therefore , asked for a 
transfer but the Manager as the technical man seemed to have satisfied himself 
that this allegation was unfounded and his refusal to work under the mechanic 
was unjustified . We accept this contention and as the Company has satisfied 
all the provisions of law in terminating his services , we dismiss the complaint 
of Ramprosad Yadav . 


6 . Regarding A . Aziz Khan , it was contended by the opposite party that this 
complainant s services have been terminated on purely medical grounds. It 
was urged that on 3rd February 1954 he was transferred by the Company to 
Umaria colliery as motor driver from Chandameta workshop and was relieved 
of his duties from Chandameta workshop on 6th February 1954 to enable him 
to join the Umaria colliery . During this period , however, he seems to have 
suffered an accident to his foot, which disabled him from functioning as a 
motor driver and as he produced a medical certificate from the Civil Surgeon 
of Chhindwara to that effect , the Company, on compassionate grounds, gave 
him a lighter job in some distant place. Shri O . P . Mehta contended that the 
Company s doctor disagreed with the Civil Surgeon about his unfitness but we 
think that if there is any conflict between the two, the Civil Surgeon s views 
should prevail, but Shri Sharma denied such a conflict. Both their Chief Medical 
Oncer and the Civil Surgeon agreed that he was not At to drive a vehicle . In 
view , however , of the Chief Medical Officer s certificate that he was Alt for 
other duty , the Company treated him generously , gave him a light job on the 
same wages until he could improve. He was again tried as a drlver , but again 
failed on account of the same disability and again given a light job which he 
carried on for a few months. When he was considered fit again he was trans 
ferred to another place on Srd February 1954. As he could not do this work 
and the Company could not give him a lighter job on the same wages he was 
again sent to the Civil Surgeon to assess his proportionate disablement with a 
view to determine his further compensation for his being permanently dis 
abled . After that the opposite party , on being satisfied that he was unfit for 


176 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15 , 1935 [ PART II- - Sec . 3 
= = 
duty , gave him notice that his services were terminated and that he would be 
paid compensation on a permanent disability basis . On receiving this notice , 
the complainant has filed a suit against the company before the Workmen s 
Compensation Commissioner for more disability compensation than the Com 
pany was prepared to pay, which is still pending . Shri O . P . Mehta on behalf 
of the complainant urges that the transfer of Abdul Aziz to Umaria Colliery 
North 300 miles away from his home on 22nd February 1954 and his subsequent 
dismissal amounts to victimisation and is , therefore , a contravention of section 
33 of the Act. He attributes this victimisation to the company s activity in an 
election fight against the company - supported Union , the INTUC , in the elections 
recently held for the Chhindwara Janpad . There may be some administrative 
discrimination on political grounds and trade union rivalries in the coalfields, 
but thut cannot be casily proved , whether in the coalfields or in the general 
administrative services of the country . The onus of proof in this case lies on 
the complainant. The Company stands on very strong legal grounds in termi 
nating this workman s services after repeated examination by a medical officer , 
including the Civil Surgeon . It tricd to provide him lighter jobs during his 
intervals of disability as a driver and it has satisfied all the provisions of the 
law in terminating his services and giving him compensation for permanent dis 
ability . There is, however , a dispute about the amount of compensation ad 
missible to the complainant which might have embittered the relations between 
the company and their ex - employee . The company is not legally bound to 
provide alternate employment to a worker who has been permanently disabled 
for a special job , when such alternate employment is not available . Whether i 
is available or not , on that fact the company , as employer , must remain the 
sole judge. We, therefore, accept the contention of the Company and dismiss 
the complaint. 


Regarding Sunny Edward and Narayandas, the opposite party contends that 
the transfer of these employees from Chandameta Workshop to Umaria and 
Burhar collieries is in accordance with the company s practice and does not 
alter the conditions of service to the prejudice of the workmen . It further adds 
that by rcason of the transfers effected in accordance with the bonafide re 
quirements of the Company , their service conditions had not been adversely 
affected , nor have they been punished in any way . Their conditions of service 
have remained the same. In reply Shri O . P . Mehta has argued that their trans 
fer to a distant collicry, to the Rewa Coalfields in Vindhya Pradesh which are 
governed by a diffcrent award , viz . , the Rewa Award , has not only resulted in 
pecuniary loss but has alfected the working of the M . P . Mines Technical Work 
ers & Staff Union , which is a registered body under the Indian Trade Union 
Act 1926 . He contends that " their transfer , therefore , amounted to denying 
them an opportunity of serving the workers who elected them as Office bearers 
of their Union " and regards this as a big loss which the complainants and the 
Union have suffered . This pecuniary loss , however , Shri O . P . Mehta has failed 
1o prove and the opposite party contends that the complainants were employed 
in the same Company according to their practice in the same jobs, on the same 
emoluments , in a healthier place where the cost and conditions of living are 
cheaper . It, therefore , maintained that there has been no loss incurred by the 
complainants whatsoever . As regards the loss suffered by the Union and their 
workmen by reason of the denial of thcir valuable services, we do not think 
that can be measured or taken into consideration . The spiritual loss suffered by 
them in being deprived of the opportunity of serving the workers who had 
elected them as Vice - President and Secretary of their Union , is somewhat un 
substantial and may safely be dismissed . The only point for our consideration 
is whether there is any other hardship in their transfer, whether it is justified 
by precedent and whether there is any element of victimisation under the Ad 
and , therefore, there has been a contravention of section 33 of the Act . We do 
not deny the possibility of the right of transfer being used in a harassin 
manner and being misused by employers for political or other purposes . Such 
an opportunity for misuse, however , exists in all employments in the country , 
whether in Defence Services, the Administrative Services or any other occupa 
tion in life . The question is whether it is so substantial as to be capable of 
legal proof and being adjudicated upon on legal grounds. In this particular 
case , the opposite party not only denies victimisation or unfair labour practice 
as defined by law and preylous cases but denies even permissible administrative 
discrimination . The Company asserts that their transfer was in the interests of 
efficiency of working of the Company s serylce, They urged that they had a 
number of vehicle drivers and it was intended that they should be put under 
one man . They had some expensive Land Rovers which were being used 
roughly by inexperienced hands. They , therefore , transferred more experienced 
drivers in the interests of these vehicles which they have recently ordered . It 
was justified on the ground of greater efficiency and productivity , as they had 


PART II-- Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 15, 1955 


177 


no machanic there and one of these two transferred men was a mechanic and 
one of the drivers is sufficiently senior to handle the new Land Rovers . We 
accept the Company s contention that the two drivers were transferred in the 
interest of better service for the Company . As the complainants have not 
been able to prove victimisation , we reject the complaint and this is our Award . 


( Sd.) J . N . MAJUMDAR , Chairman . 
( Sd.) H . R . BATHEJA , Member . 
( Sd .) S . P . CHOPRA , Member. 

[No. LR -2 (107) /55.] 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 8th January 1955 
S . R . O . 167 . . Whereas the Lakshmi Insurance Company, Limited , New Delhi, 
and the Lakshmi Insurance Employecs Union have jointly applied to the Central 
Government for reference of an industrial dispute to a Tribunal in respect of the 
matters set forth in the said application and reproduced in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ; 


And whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the said Union represents 
a majority of workmen ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 and sub 
section (2 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( XIy of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which 
Shri Govind Ram Budhiraja , Additional District Judge , Delhi, shall be the sole 
Member and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Tribunal. 


THE SCHEDULE 


Specific matters in dispute 


Whether Shri Bhola Ram is entitled to reinstatement and , if not , to what 
relief, if any , he is entitled to . 


(No. LROO ( 35 ) / 54 .) 


P . S . EASWARAN , Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 8th January 1955 


S . R . O . 168. - In pursuance of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) of paragraph 22 of the 
Employees Provident Funds Scheme, 1952 , and in supersession of the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No. S . R . O . 45. dated the 
23rd December, 1953, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri A . M , Savari 
nathan , Regional Provident Fund Commissioner , Madras , as the Secretary to the 
Regional Committee for the State of Madras , as set up under paragraph 4 of the 
said Scheme in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour No . S . R . O . 3381, dated the 2nd November , 1954 . 


[No. PF516 ( 10 ) Part II. ] 


A : NARAYANAN , Under Secy . 


178 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 13 , 1958 


[PART II - SEC. 3 


- - - 


New Delhi, the 11th January 1985 
S . R .O . 189 .- In pursuance of sub - rule ( 1) of rule 23 of the Minimum Wages 
(Central ) Rules, 1950 , the Central Government hereby permits the Bombay 
Port Trust to require or allow the persons employed by it in ( 1) the Kennery 
Island Lighthouse , ( ii) the Prongs Lighthouse , and ( iii) the wireless Beacon 
Station , Kennery Island , to work on the first day of the week (hereinafter 
referred to as the said day ) without being allowed a holiday for the whole day 
on one of the five days immediately before or after the said day . 


[ No. LWI-8 ( 1 ) / 56 . ] 
A . P . VEERA RAGHAVAN , Under Secy , 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE MANAGER , GOVT . OT INDIA PRESS , NEW DELHI 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1065 


