REGISTERED No. D . 22 


R ! 


S 


. 


. 


The Gazette 


of 


India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


- 


- - - 


- 


-- 


- 


- - - 


- 


No . 18 ] 


NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, MAY 3 , 1952 


NOTICE 
The un lormentionalGazettes of India Extraordinary woro publiskod during the week 
ending the 29th April 1952 : 


IAAUO 


No. and Date 


Issued by 


Subjeot 


No. 


71 


S . R . O . 707, dated the 
19th April 1962. 


Ministry of The Bombay Skim Milk Powder ( Con . 
Food and Agri- trol on Distribution and Movozont ) 
culture 

Order , 1962, 


72 


tho 


$ . R . O . 708, dated 
22nd April 1982. 


Ditto . 


The Central Advisory Council (Proco . 
dural) Rulog . 


Copies of the Gazetten Extraordinury inentioned abovo will be Rupplied on indent to tho 
Manager of Publications, Civil Line , Delhi, Indenth should be mubmitted AO AA to reach the 
Manager within ten days of the date of issue of thin Gazette . 


PART II — Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorities 
( other than the Chief Conimissioners ) . 

MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 25th April 1952 
S . R . O . 34 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of article 299 
of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that the following further amend 
ments shall be made in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Law No . S . R . O . 215, dated the 9th February , 1952 , relating to the execution of 
contracts and assurances of property, namely : 

1. In Part IX of the said notifcation , for item 2 under Head C , the following 
item shall be substituted , namely : 
" 2 . Bonds and guarantees submitted by importers and exporters in connec 

tion with the clearance or export of goods; by a Customs Collector 

appointed under section 6 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( VIII of 1878 ). " 
2 . In Part XVII of the said notification , in item 22 under Head A , for the words 
or Controllers of Stores of Government Railways, the Superintendent, Railway 
Train477. School, Bina , or the Director, Railway Clearing Accounts" , the following 
words shall be substituted , namely : 
" Controllers of Stores , or Personnel Officers of Government Railways, the 

President, Colony Committee , Golden Rock , the Superintendent, 
Railway Training School, Bina , or the Director, Railway Clearing 

Accounts." 
3 . In Part XXI of the said notification , under Head G , after entry 9 the follow 
ing entries shall be added , namely : -- - 
" 10 . Leases of land situated within the declared area of a salt factory and 

unfit for salt manufacture , but fit for ( a ) Grow More Food Campaign , 
(b ) Paddy Cultivation , ( c ) Building Residential Quarters, ( d ) Casuarina 
Plantation or ( e ) any other purpose sanctioned by a competent 
authority ; by the Deputy Salt Controller , in Delhi, Madras of Bombay 
or an Assistant Salt Controller within their respective jurisdictions, 

[ 701 ) 


702 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3 , 1952 


[ PART II — Sec . 8 


11. Leases of fishing rights and acceptances of tenders thereof : 
( a ) if the amount or value does not exceed Rs. 5 ,000 in each case ; by the 

Deputy Salt Controller, in Delhi, Madras or Bombay or an Assistant 

Salt Controller within their respective jurisdictions; and 
(h ) If such amount or value exceeds Rs. 5 ,000 in each case ; by the Salt 
Controller ." 

[No, F . 32- III / 52 - L .] 
SHRI GOPAL SINGH , Dy . Secy . 


New Delhi, the 30th April 1952 
S . R . O , 735 .- - The following direction issued by the President under clause ( 1 ) 
of article 299 of the Constitution is published for general Information : 

" In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of article 299 of the Consti- 1 
tution , I, Rajendra Prasad , President of India , hereby authorise my Ambassador 
to the United States of America , to execute on my behalf the Loan Agreements 
with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Washington , to 
be made in exercise of the executive power of the Union of India . I hereby fur 
ther appoint the Ambassador of India to the United States of America , to act as 
a representative of the Government of India for this purpose and to do all neces 
sary acts and things on behalf of the Government of India in connection therewith . 
Signed at New Delhi on the twenty fifth day of April, 1952. 

RAJENDRA PRASAD , 

President of India" 

[No. F . 32 -IV / 52 - L . ] 

S . B . CAPOOR , Joint Secy . 
MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 23rd April 1952 
S . R . O . 36 . - - Corrigendum . In the Ministry of Home Affairs Notification No. 
S . R . O . 391, dated the 27th February , 1952 (hereinafter referred to as the said 
Notification ) published on pages 364 - 369 of the Gazette of India , Part II - Section 3 , 
dated the 8th Match 1952 - - 
( 1) on page 384 , for the letters, word and figures " XLV of 1951" within the 

brackets occurring in the preamble to the Punjab Security of the 
State (Amendment) Act, 1951 which forms Annexure I to the said 
Notification read the letters , word and figures " XLVI of 1951" within 

the same brackets . 
( 2 ) on pages 364 , 366 , and 369 for Ajmer occurring in section 2 of the 

Punjab Security of the State (Amendment) Act , 1951 which forms 
Annexure I to the said Notification and in sub - section ( 2 ) of section 1 
and in section 15 of the Funjab Security of the State Act, 1951 which 

forms Annexure II to the said Notification read Delhi . 
( 3 ) on page 367, for the word uniform occurring in sub - section (6 ) of section 

7 of the Punjab Security of the State Act, 1951 which forms Annexure 

II to the said Notification read inform , 
(4 ) on page 369, for the Agures 14 and 15 indicating respectively sections 

14 and 15 of the Punjab Security of the State Act , 1951 which forms 
Annexure II to the said Notification read 15 and 16 respectively . 

[No. 25 / 29 / 51 -Poll . ] 
S . R . O . 737 . -- Corrigendum . - In the Ministry of Home Affairs Notification No . 
S . R . O . 390 , dated the 27th February , 1952 (hereinafter referred to as the said 
Notification ) published on pages 358 - 363 of the Gazette of India , Part II - Section 3 , 
dated the 8th March 1952 — 
(1 ) on pages 358 , 360 and 363 for Delhi occurring in section 2 of the 

Punjab Security of the State ( Amendment) Act, 1951, which forms 
Annexure I to the said Notification and in sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 1 
and in section 16 of the Punjab Security of the State Act, 1951 which 

forms Annexure II to the said Notification read Ajmer . 
( 2 ) on page 381 for the word uniform occurring in sub - section ( 1 ) of section 

7 of the Punjab Security of the State Act , 1951 which forms Annexure 
II to the said Notification read inform . 

[ No. 25 / 29 / 51 -Poll . ] 
GAJINDER SINGH , Asstt . Secy . 


PART II - Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 8 , 1952 


703 


com . . 


New Delhi, the 23rd April 1962 
S . R . O . 38. - In exercise of the powers conferred by article 309 of the Constitu 
tion read with articles 313 and 372 thereof and paragraph 19 of the Adaptation of 
Laws Order, 1950 , the President hereby directs that the following further amend 
ments shall be made in the Rules published with the notifcation of the Govern 
ment of India in the late Home Department No. F . 9 / 19 / 30 - Ests ., dated the 27th 
February 1932 , namely : - - 

In the schedule annexed to the said Rules , under the head " Department of 
Communications" , sub -head " Indian Posts and Telegraphs Department " , heading 
“ ( A ) Services" , and Item " ( 14 ) Telegraph Engineering " , for the entry Repeater 
Station Assistants, Observation Supervisors , Telephone Monitors in Selection 
Grade and Line Inspectors " , in column 1 of the schedule , the following shall be 
cubstituted , namely : 
" Repeater Station Assistants , Observation Supervisors , Telephone Monitors 
in Selection Grade, Matrons and Line Inspectors, 

[No. 7 / 10 /52-Ests .] 
8 . R . 0 . 799 . - - In oxois of the powers conferred by the provigo to artiolo 309 of the Cong 
titution , the President hereby directo that the following further amendmonto shall be mado in 
tho bohedulo annoxed to notifortion of tho Government of India in the late Homo Department 
No. F . 9 / 11/ 89- Ests., dated the 9th January 1994 , namelyi 

1. Under tho Head “ Customs Department" for the existing ontries, the following ontrion 
ghall be substituted , namely :-- 
Principal Approlors , 
Chief Inspectors Proventivo Contral Board of Oolloctor of Customs . (i), (ii), (iv ) 
Service . Revenue. 

end ( v ). 
Auditor , 
Chief Accounts Ofilcor . 

Central Board of Roven . AU . 

ue. 
Superintendont of Launohos , Collector of Our Senior Asstt . Colleotor of (1), (b ), (iv ) 
Caloutta Ountoms Hous . 

Customs incharge of Pro - and (v ) . 
Assistant Superintendont 

ventive Department. 
of Launches , Caloutta 

Collector of Customs , Al . 
Customs House . 
Appraisors . . . Collootor of Customs Senior Asstt. Collootor of (i), (i ), (iv ) 

Customs incharge Appr . and ( v ). 

aising Department. 

Collootor of Customs . All , 
Proventive Inspeotors . . Collector of Customs Senior Asstt. Collector of (i), ( ii), (iv ) 

Oustonas inobargo Pro - and (v ) . 

yentlve Departmont. 
Collector of Customs 

, All 
Chief Prøventivo Omoor, Colloctor of Customs, Oollootor of Customs, Cooblo (i), (ii), (iv ) 
Cochin Customs Houso . Madras . 

and ( v ). 
Collootor of Customs, Mad - All. 

ras . 
2 . Undor the Head Oplum Department for the existing ontrios, tho following entries 
Bhall be substituted , namely : 
Anott. Collector (Opium ) . Contral Board of Central Boad of Revenue . All, 

thief Accounts Offlger . Revenue. 
- Factory Engineer . 

Laboratory Engineer 
Distriot Opium Omoord 
Iagpooting Omoor (Headquar . 

tere Ome of the Naroo 

tios Commissioner ). 
Manager , Opium Factory , Central Board of Narootion Commissioner . (i), (i ), (iv ) 
Ghazipur Revenue. 

and ( v ). 
Asstt. Manager , Opium Fao . 
tory , Ghazipur . 

Central Board of Revenue . AU . 
Manager, Opium Faotory , 

Neemuch . 

3 . For the existing heads " Northern India Salt Rovoquo Department, Bombay Salt Ro 
_ venue Department , and Madras Salt Revenue and Customs Out- ports Department" and the 
entries thorounder , the following head and entries ther under shall be substituted , namely: 
" Central Excise (including Land Customs) Department, 
Asstt . Collectors of Central Central Board of Central Board of Revenuo. All . 
Excise ( Clog II ). 

Revenue. 
Chief Aocounts Omoors 


704 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3 , 1952 


[ PART II — SEC . 3 


OC 


Or 


Superintendents of Central Central Board of Collector of Central Exciso 
Excise. 

Revenue . 

(Grado I ) 
Collector of Central Excise (i), (i ), (iv ) 
(Grado II) 

and (v ) ." 
Deputy Collector in indo 

pendent charge of a Col 

lectorate . 

Contral Board of Revenue All . 
4 . After the head " Central Exoiso ( including Land Custom3) Dopartment " , the following 
head and entries thereunder shall be inserted , nainoly :-- 
Central Revenues Ohernioal Service, Olass II. 
Asstt. Chomical Examiner , Central Board of Chief Chemist . . . (i), (ii), (iv ) 
Revenue. 

And ( v ). 
( entral Bourd of Revenuo . All." 

[No, 7/9 /61 – Eg to .] 
New Delhi, the 24th April, 1952 
8 . R . O . 740 . — In exeroine of the powers confcrrcd by the proviso to article 309 of the Cong . 
titution , the President hereby directs that the following further amendments shall be made 
in the rules published with the notification of the Government of India in the lato Homo De 
partment No. 9 /19/ 30 -Egts., dated the 27th Fobruary 1932, pamely : 

In the Scheduled annexed to the eaid Rulon , under the heading l incoce Departmont . 

1. Under the sub-head Customs Departinent for the existing intriip , the following en 
tries shall be substituted : 
Olass III posts . 
( 1) Non -Ministerial. 
Thiaminore 

Colleotor of: Cua . Senior Asstt . Colleo . ( i), ( ii), (iv ) Collector of Cue 
tome. 

tor i / o of Appraig - and ( v ). tome. 
ing Departmont. 
Collector of Customs. All . Contral Board of 

Revenue. 
Preventive Oncers Collector of Senior Aagtt . Collec - (1), ( ii), (iv ) Collector of Ous 
(Grade I) . 

Customs . tor i / o Preventive and ( v ) . tomas , 
Preventive Officers 

Department. 
(Grade II) . 
Asstt . Preventivo 

Collector of Customs. All 

Coutral Board 
Omloors . 

of Rovonye. 
Wharfingers . 
Chernical Assistante · Chief Chemist. Senior Chemnical (i) and (v ) Chief Chemist . 

Examiner Inchargo 
of the Laboratory . 
Collector of Customs ( i), (ii), ( iv ) Contral Board 

and ( v ). of kovoque. 
Chief Chernist All 

Central Boary 

of Roveno. 
(ü ) Ministerial . 
Superintendent . Colloctor of Asstt. Collector ( i), ( ii), (iv ) Collector of Cus 
Deputy Suporlnten . Customs. incharge of Estt, and ( v . toma. 
dont . 

and Adma . 
Colloctor of Customs All , . Central Board 

of Revenue . 
Head Clerk , Upper Colleotor of Collector of Customs, All , . Collector of Cug . 
Dn . Clerk and I Customs, O . . Coohin . 

toms,Madras . 
Lower Dn , Clerke ohin , 
( Cochin Custome 

Loure ). 
Uppor Da , and Lower " Colloctor of Cug . Asstt . Colleotor of (1), (ii ), (iv ) Collector of Cug 
Divn , Olerks . 

tong. 

Customs i/ o of the end ( v ). toms. 
Department con 

cerned , 
Stenographors . 

Collector of Collector of Customs All , . . Central Board 
All othor Ministerial į Customs. 

of Revenue. 
or non -ministorja ! | 
Class III posts . 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3 , 1952 


705 


AU Clagg IV pogta , Asstt . Collootor Antt . Collector of (1), (11), ( iv ) Collootor of Our . 

of Cugtoms Cugtoms i/o Doptt . And ( v ). toms. 
(Eatt , & Admn. ) concerned . 

Asstt . Collector of All . . Collootor of Cus . 
Customs (Eett , and 

tomne. 

Admon . ) 
2 . Under the sub -head " Opium Department " for tho existing ontries , the following entries 
i ghall be gubstituted : 
Olass III posts. 

(1) Non -Ministerial . 
Deputy Superinten . Naroo . ics Com . Narcotics Comnis - All Central Bjar 
dont , T riggioner . sioner . 

of Rovenue, 
speotors and Super 
vigore in Himachal 
Pradosh . 

( ii) Ministerial. 
Superintendent 

Narcotion Doputy Collootor (i), (ii), iv ) Narootiog Oom 
Head Olerks , . s Com .niggioner . 

ſ Com .nisgioner . (Opium ) in the one and ( v ) , missioner . 

of pergone employ . 
Ad in the Opium 
Factory , Ghazipur. 
Asstt . Collector (1) and (v ) Narcotias Oom 
(Opium ) in the 0890 

missioner 
of porgong employ 
ed in Neemuch , 
Rajasthan and Me 
dhya Bharat , 
Narootice Commig - All , Central Board · 
Bioner . 

of Rovenue . 
Upper Divigion And Narcotics Com . Doputy Colleotor (i), (11), (iv ) Nerootion Com . 

Lowor Division 1 missioner . (Opium ) for staff and ( v ). missioner, 
Clarks. 

omployed in Uttar 
Stogo -typists , 

Pradesh . 
All other Mins. And 

Non -Ming, Clagg III 
poste . 

Aggtt . Collootor ( i), (ii), (iv ) Narcotics Com . 

(Opium ) for staff and (v ). missioner , 
employed in Noo . 
much , Rajasthan 
and Madhya Bha . 
rat , 
Narcotion Commin All . Central Board 
gioner , 

of Revenue. 
Chemioal Asyistants , Chief Chomist . Opium Chemist , (1) and (v ) Chief Chemist. 

Narooting Commig - (i), ( ii), (iv ) Central Board 
Bioner , 

of Revenue . 

Chief Chemigt . All . Do, 
Olaos IV posts . 
(i) Oneof the Narco - Chief Ajopunts Chief Ancounts All , Narcotica Com 
tice Commissioner, Officer , 

Oficer , 

missioner . 
(ii) Uttar Pradesh Daputy Colleo . District Opium (i) and (v ) Deputy Colleo . 
(Ghazipur ), tor (Opium ). Omicers or Opium 

tor (Opium ). 
Chemigt or Mana 
ger , Opiun Tec 
tory Ghazipur , in 
rospect of Egte . 
under their con 
trol, 
Deputy Collootor All , Narcotics Com 
(Opium ). 

mlegioner . 
( iii ) Neemuch , Rajas . Aggtt . Collector Manager Opium (i) and ( v ) Anaistant Colloctor 
than and Madhya (Opium ). Huotory , Neomuoh 

(Opium ). 
Bharat. 

or District Opium 
Omoera in respect 
of Eatg . under their 
control, 
Aggistant Collector All , . Narootice Com . 
(Opium ). 

missioner , 


708 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1952 


[PART II Sec. 3 


" O 


( w ) Ilmachal Pradesh Chief Accounts Officer -in -charge of (1) and (v ) Nerootice Com . 

Ofoer . the Oirole . 

mussioner, 
Chief Accounto Om . AU 

Narcotics Com 
cer . 

missioner , 
3 . For the exlating sub hands " Northern India Salt Rovenue Dopartment, Bombay Salt 
Revenue Department and Madras Salt Rovenue and Customs Out-porto Department gubxo 
quently Amended to " Contral soigo and Land Custom . Department" and the ontries there . 
under, the following sub -load and entries thorounder shall be substituted : 

" Central Brcise (including Land Customs) Department . 


Class III posts. 

(1) Non -Ministerial. 
Do Superintendente Colleotor of Agstt. Colleotor of ( i) and ( v ) Colloctor of Cen . 
of Central Exoise . Central Exoige Central Exoige , 

tral of Exciso . 
Deputy Collector ( i ), ( ii), ( iv ) Collootor of Con . 

of Central Exoige . And (v ), tral Eroige . 
Collector of Central All . Central Board 
Exoine , 

of Ravenuo. 
Inspectors of Central Colleotor of Deputy Collootor or (i), (ii), ( iv ) Collector of Cen . 

Exolge . Bir ✓ Contral Ex Agatt. Collootor of and (v ). tral Exotgo . 
Supervigers , J olgo . 

Contral Exoigo . 
Collootor of Central All . Central Board 
Exoise. 

of Revenue . 
(17 ) Ministerial. 
once Suodt. Superin - Collootor of Deputy Collootor (i), (li ), (iv ) Colleotor of Cen . 
tendent. 

Central Eroic or Agstt . Collootor 
or Asstt . Colleotor 

and ( v ). 
and 

tral Exoise . 
se . 

(Headquarters ). 
Coletor of Contral All 

Central Board 
Egoigo . 

of Rovanue . 
Deputy Supdt . . Colleqtor of Anatt. Colloctor 1 (i) & (v ) . Collootor of Cen 
Hood Clerk . Central Ex - incharge of Dinn . S 

tral Exciso . 
olso . 


Dy . Colleotor of (1), ( ii), (iv ) Collector of Con . 

Cantral Erolgo or & (v ). tral Excise . 
Agatt, Colleotor 
( Headquarters ). 
Collector of Central All , Contral Board 
Exoise . 

of Rovenyo . 
Upper and Lower Di. ) Collootor of Dy , Collector of 2 (i), ( ii), (iv ) Collector of Con 

vigion Clerka. I Central Ex - Central Eroigoor and ( v ) . tral Exoigo . 
Stono- typlat : 

oise . 

Agott . Collootor 
All other ministerial 

( Hoadquarters ) or 
And non -ministerial 

Asstt . Collootor 
olage III posta . 

inohergo Div . 
Collector of Central AL . Central Board 
Exoise . 

of Revenuo. 
Agstt . Collootor Suporintoudent of ( 1) and (v ) Assistant Colloo 
incharge of Central Exqiao . 

tor. 
Diva , or 
Asstt . Colleator Asstt . Collector of All , . Collootor of Cen . 
( Headquertora Central Eroige 

tral Exolgo , 
OM0o ) " in 198 . inoharge of Divn . 
poct of Estt . or Agatt, Colleo 
undor thoir tor (Hoxdquarter : 
control. 

Ofico ), 


- 


ata 


Au Come i posle 


4 . Tho existing entrion under the gub - head " Customg Departmont" relating to Chemios . 
and other establishments at the Contral Laboratory shall bo deleted and the following sub head 
and entries thorounder shall be substituted after the sub head " Central Exoigo ( including Land 
Customs) Department " : 

Central Rovenue Contral Laboratory . 
Chemloal Asstte. . Ohlof Chemist , Chemical Examiner, (i) and (v ) Chief Chemist. 

Grado I . 
Chief Chomigt All . Central Board 

of Rovenue. 


PART II - SEC. 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1952 


707 


Superintendent (Minis . Chief Cheinigt . Chemical Examinor, (i) and (v ). Ohiof Chemigt . 
terial) , 

Grade I . 
Chiof Chemist All 

Central Board 

of Revenue. 
All Other Class ( II Chief Ohunigt Chemical Examiner, (i), ( ii ), (iv ) Chief Chomist, 
Posto . 

Grado I . 

and ( v ). 
Chief Chomist . AL , , Central Board 

of Revenue . 
AL CLASA IV Posts Chomical Exil - Ohernical Examiner , (i), ( ii), ( iv ) Chief Chemist . 
niner, Grade I. Grade ( I. 

And ( v ). 
Oheinical Exaniger , All . . Chief Chemist . 
Grado I . 

[7 /9 /61- Hato.) 
C . B . GULATI, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 23rd April 1952 


S .R . O , 41. — The following draft of certain further amendments to the Indian 
Pllgriin Ships Rules , 1933 , which it is proposed to make in exercise of the powers 
conferred by clause (8 ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 213 of the Indian Merchant 
Shipping Act , 1923 (XXI of 1923) , is published as required by sub - section ( 3 ) 
of the said section for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby , 
and notice is hereby given that the sald draft will be taken into consideration 
on or after the 15th May 1952. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person in respect 
of the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 

Draft Amendments 
In rule 101 of the said Rules--- 

1 . In sub - rule ( 1 ) , for the word " cotton " the words, brackets and figure " cotton 
[ except Egyptian and Sudan cotton subject to the conditions specified in sub - rule 
( 3 ) ] shall be substituted. 
2 . After sub- rule (2 ) the following sub -rule shall be inserted , namely : 
" ( 3 ) Egyptian and Sudan cotton shall not be carried in a pilgrim ship unless 

the following conditions are satisfied : - 
(a ) no other cargo or stores shall be stowed with cotton in the same 

cumpartment, 
.(b ) each compartment in which cotton is stowed shall have its own inde 

pendent means of fire- extinguishing , 
( c ) each compartment in which cotton is stowed shall be efficiently and 

securely closed , and ventilators leading to such compartment shall 

be fitted with a double layer of fine mesh wire gauze , 
( d ) the stowage and loading or discharging of cotton shall be under the 

direct supervision of one or more of the ship s certificated officers , 
( e ) during loading and discharging operations , spark arresters shall be 

placed over all funnels , 
( f) smoking and naked lights shall not be permitted on any deck or decks 

through which cotton is loaded or discharged , and 
( g ) fire hoses shall be connected to the water supply adjacent to all 

hatchways through which cotton is being loaded or discharged and 
the water shall be turned on ready for immediate use . 

[ No. 158 - AWT.) 
AVTAR SINGH , Under Secy . 


708 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3 , 1952 


(PART II — SEC. 3 


- - - 


- 


= 


MINISTRY OF STATES 


New Delhi, the 23rd April 1952 


S . R . O . 742. - In pursuance of clause ( 1 ) of article 239 of the Constitution , the 
President hereby directs that the Chief Commissioner of Manipur shall , subject 
to the control of the Fresident and until further orders , exercise the 
powers and discharge the functions of the State Government under the provisions 
of section 5 of the Public Gambling Act, 1867 ( III of 1867) , as extended to the 
State of Manipur. 

[No. 93 - J.] 
A . N . SACHDEV, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 23rd April 1952 
S .R . O . 743, — The Central Government is pleased to notify that Rajkumar 
Raghubirşıngh , Rajkumar Govindsingh , and Rajkumar Raghunathsingh , sons of 
His Highness the Raja of Sitamau , have been nominated by the said Ruler , for the 
purposes of Entry 2 (b ) of the Table annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms 
Rules , 1951. 

[No. 94 -D . ) 
S . R . O . 744. — The Central Government is pleased to notify that Maharaj Kumar 
Ajit Singhji, son of His Highness the Raja of Jhabua , has been nominated by the 
said Ruler for the purposes of Entry 2 (b ) of the Table annexed to Schedule I 
to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951. 

[No . 95 - D . ) 
S . R . O . 745 . — The Central Government is pleased to notify that Maharajkumar 
Shri Digvijay Singhji Saheb and Maharajkumar Shri Lakshman Singhji Saheb , sons 
of His Highness the Raja of Sailana have been nominated by the said Ruler , for 
the purposes of Entry 2 (b ) of the Table annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms 
Rules, 1951 

[No. 96 - D .] 
S . R . O . 746 . - In xercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 (b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Her Highness Sungariji Saheba a member of the family of 
the Ruler of Rajgarh for the purposes of that entry . 

[No . 97- D .] 
S . R . O . 747.- - In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 (b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
Is please to specify Her Highness Maharaniji Saheba of Sitamau a member of the 
fainily of the Ruler of Sitamau for the purposes of that entry . 

[No. 98-D .) 
S . R . O . 748 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 (b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951 , the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Her Highness Maharani Vijaya Raje Scindia , a member of 
the family of the Ruler of Gwalior for the purposes of that entry . 

[ No . 99- D ] 
S . R . O . 749 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 (b ) of the Table 
annexes to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Major Shrimant Maharaj Jagdeo Rao Saheb Puar of Junior 
Malinan a member of the family of the Ruler of Dhar for the purposes of that entry. 

[No. 100 - D . ] 
S . R . O , 750 , - - In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 (b ) of the Tablo 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Hor Highness Rani Saheba Saraswati Sahiba a member of 
the family of the Ruler of Khiichipur for the purposes of that entry . 

[No. 101- D .] 
S . R . O . 751. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 (b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 


PAPT II - SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3 , 1952 


709 


is please 1 to specify Her Highness Maharani Saheba Chauhanji a member of the 
family of the River of Jhabua for the purposes of that entry . 

[ No. 102-D .] 


S . R . O . 752 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 ( b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify ( 1 ) Her Highness thc Dowager Maharani Shiva Kumari, 
D . B . E ., and (2 ) Maharaj Prabhunath Singhji, members of the family of the Ruler 
of Narsingarh for the purposes of that entry . 

[No. 103 - D .] 


S . R . O . 753. In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 ( b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify ( 1 ) Her Highness Maharani Padmaraje Fuar and ( 2 ) Her 
Highness Maharani Menkaraje Puar , members of the family of the Ruler of Dewas 
( Junior) for the purposes of that entry . 

[No. 104- D .) 


S . R . O . 754 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 (b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify ( 1 ) Maharajkumari Usha Raje Holkar , ( 2 ) Her Highness Fay 
Holkar . ( 3 ) His Highness Maharaja I ukoji Rao Holkar , ( 4 ) Her Highness Masaheba 
Saubhagyawati Chandravati Bal Holkar, (5 ) Her Highness Masaheba Saubhagyawati 
Sharmishta Bai Holkar , and (6 ) Her Highness Masaheba Saubhagyawati Indirabai 
Holkar members of the family of the Ruler of Indore for the purposes of that entry . 

[No. 105 - D . ] 


S . R . O . 755 . In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 ( b ) of thc Table 
Annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
is plcased to specify ( 1 ) Her Highness the Junior Dowager Maharani Şaheba of 
Ratlam and (2 ) Her Highness the Maharani Sahoba of Ratlam , members of the 
tamily of the Rwer of Ratlam for the purposes of that entry . 

[No . 106 - D . ] 


S . R . O . 756 . - In exerciſe of the powers conferred by Entry 3 (b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Her Highness Maharaniji Shri Chandrawatji Saheba , a member 
of the family of the Ruler of Sailana for the purposes of that entry , 

[No. 107 - D . ] 


S . R . O . 1757. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 (b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indtan Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Yuvraj Jayendra Singh , a member of the family of the Ruler 
of Kathiwara for the purposes of that entry .. 

[No. 108- D .) . 


S . R . O . 58. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 ( b ) of the Table 
anexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to speclfy Ranee Saheba Mukand Kuwar, a member of the family of the 
Ruler of Johat for the purposes of that entry . 

[No. 109 -D ) 
S .R . O . 1759. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 (b ) of the Table 
annexcd to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951 , the Central Government 
is pleased to specify ( 1 ) The Senior Begum Saheba of Kurwai, and ( 2 ) Nawabzada 
Shaharyar Mohammed Khan , members of the famlly of the Ruler of Kurwai for 
the purposes of that entry . 

[No . 110 - D . ] 


S . R . O . 1760.- - In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 (b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Shrimati Keshav Kumar (Rajmata ), a member of the family 
of the Ruler of Piploda for the purposes of that entry . 

[No. 111 - D .] 


710 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3 , 1952 


[PART II - SEC. 3 


S . R . O . 761, -- In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 ( b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schodule I to the Indian Army Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify ( 1 ) Sarkar Alia Aziza Sultan Begum , and ( 2 ) Nawabzada Wala 
Jal Asif Mohammad Khan Bahadur, members of the family of the Ruler ot 
Pathắri for the purposes of that entry . 

[No. 112 - D . ) 
S . R . O . 762 . In exercise of tho powers conferred by Entry 3 ( b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify ( 1) Rani Saheba Indumati Devi, and ( 2) Kunwar Bhanu Pratap 
Singh , menibers of the family of the Ruler of Khanladhana, for the purposes of 
that entry , 

[No. 113 - D . ] 
S . R . O . " 63... In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 ( b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify ( 1 ) Rajmata Saheba Janina Kunwar Bai, ( 2 ) Rani Saheba 
Chandra Kunwar Ba , and ( 3 ) Kunwar Surendra Singhji, members of the family 
of the Ruler of Nimkhera for the purposes uf that entry . 

[No, 114 - D . ] 
S . R . O . 964 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 ( b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Shreemati Rajmata Bhanwar Bai Ma Saheba , a member of 
the family of the Ruler of Jamnla , for the purposes of that cntry . 

(No. 115 - D . ] 
S . R . O . 765. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 ( b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Kunwar Fatehbhan Singhji, a member of the family of the 
Ruler of Rajgarh (Bhumia Estate ) for the purposes of that entry . 

[No. 116 - D . ) 
H . C . MAHINDROO , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
( Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 22nd April , 1952 

Foreign Exchange Regulation Rules 
S . R . O . 760 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the Foreign 
Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (VII of 1947) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following Rules , namely ; - -- 

1. Short title and commencement. - (1 ) These rules may be called the Foreign 
Exchange Regulation Rules, 1952 . 

(2 ) They shall come into force at once . 
2 . Definitions.- .- In these rules, unless the context otherwise tequires; 

( a ) " Schedule" means a schedule to these Rules ; and 
(b ) " the Act" means the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (VII of 

1947) . 
3 . Form of declarations. — ( 1) A declaration under section 12 of the Act shall be 
in one of the forma set out in the First Schedule as the Reserve Bank may by 
notification in the Gazette of India specify as appropriate to the requirements of 
a case . 

(2 ) Declarations shall be executed in sets of such number as indicated on the 
forms. 

4 . Authority to whom declaration to be furnished . - ( 1 ) The original of the 
declaration shall be furnished to the Collector of Customs; provided that when 
export is by post , the original of the declaration shall be furnished to the postal 
authorities. 

( 2 ) Copies of the declaration shall be submitted to the authorities and in the 
manner , specified on the forms. 


PART 11 - SEC . 3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3 , 1904 


114 


( 3 ) The documents pertajning to every export passed by the Customs shall , 
within 21 days from the date of the export, be submitted to the authorised dealer 
mentioned on the relevant declaration form , unless the Reserve Bank , in its dis 
cretion , authorişes otherwise. 

5 . Evidence in support of declaration ( 1 ) The Reserve Bank , or subject to 
such directions, if any , as may be given by the Reserve Bank , the Collector of 
Customs or the postal authorities , may, to satisfy themselves of due compliance 
with section 12 of the Act , require such evidence in support of the declaration as 
may satisty them that the exporter is & person resident in India , or has a place 
of business in India , 

( 2 ) The Reserve Bank may require any exporter to produce such evidence in 
support of the declaration as may be in his possession or power to satisfy it 
(1) that the destination stated on the declaration is the final place of 

destination of the goods exported ; and 
(ii) that the amount representing the full export value of the goods hag. 

been or will be paid to the exporter . 
Explanation . For the purposes of this rule . " Anal place of destination " meang : 
a place in a country in which the goods are ultimately imported and cleared 
through the Customs of that country . 


6 . Period within which erport value of goods is to be paid ,-- The amount repre 
senting the full export value of goods exported shall be received from the country 
of final destination of the goods, unless permitted otherwise by the Reserve Bank 
in its discretion , and shall be paid to the exporter within six months from the 
date of shipment of the gonds ; 

Provided that in the case of goods exported to Pakistan or Afghanistan , the 
amount representing the export value shall be received within three months from 
the date of export : 

Provided further that the Reserve Bank , in its discretion , may , for sufficient and 
reasonable cause shown , extend the said period of six months or three months, 8 $ 
the cage may be, 

7. Manner of Payment of export value of goods . — The amount representing the 
full value of goods exported to the countries specified in the Second Schedulo shall 
be paid through an authorised dealer and unless otherwise authorised by the 
Reserve Bank , shall be paid in the manner specified in the said Schedule . 

FIRST SCHEDULE 


Form G . R . I. 


Original copy to be submitted to Customs 
FOR SHIPMENTS FROM INDIA ONLY 


( All exports from parts in India must be declareil on G . R . forms only ) 


EXCHANGE CONTROL 


Sorial No. . , . . 

. ... . . . . . . . Steamer 
Shipping Bill No. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Port of 
Ruroo Value . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . Shipment . . . ... . . . 
This form door not apply for oxport to Polistan and Afghanistan . For export to 
these countries foir E . P . must be used . 

(Declaration required from oxporter before shipping commodities to countries outside 
India other than Nepal, Tibet , Bhutan and French and Portuguese territories in Indio .) 
1. Exporter s Name 
2 . Country of destination of goods 
3 . Short description and quuntity of goods 
4 . Invoice value of goods (stuting currenoy) 

(Shipping charges , insuranco oto , if not included in price ) 


Total 


712 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3 , 1952 


[Part II — SEC . 3 


8 . Mothod by which payment is to be roce vod in India , 

( a ) Goods involoed in permittod foroign curtongy and payment 
Striko out 

recoivod through a bank in India by 
olaugog not 

(i) negotiating or sending for collection bills and /or documents 
Applioable . 

drawn in . 


(state curtonoy ) 
(it ) remittanco in 

(state foreign ourTency) 
(6 ) Goods involoed in rupees and payment received through & 

bank in India by 
(i) negotiating or sending for collection bills and/or documents 
drawn in rupeos . 

. . . 
(22) remittano , in rupeog . . . . . . . . . 
( c ) Goods invoiced in storling and paymont roceived through A 

bank in India by negotiation of a sterling bill on London drawn 
under & credit either registered with the Bank of England on 
Form E . 2 under No . - - - 

(montion Bank of England No. ) 
or without such a reglstration providing for roimbursemont 
by & sale of foroign currency or by transfer from the pormitted 

sterling account in the United Kingdom , 
(d ) Goods invoioed in sterling and payment received througb & 
bank in India by 
negotiating 

- - - - drawn in sterling 
Bonding for collection shipping documents 

on the oountry of destination of goods, payment to be 
rocoived in storling from the permitted sterling sooount in 

the United Kingdom . . . . . . . . . . 
( ii) remittanoo in gterling the sterling boing roceived from the 

permitted storling account in the United Kingdom 
(e) Goods invoiced in sterling and payment roceived through a bank 
in India by 
negotiating 

billo 

- drawn in 
Bonding for colleotion shipping doouments 
Atorling on 

(montion name of sterling eres country ooncerned) 
& gterling area country other than the U . K . providing for reim 
burgemont by transfer from the permittod sterling account 
in the United Kingdom . . . . 


bills 


I hereby declare that I am the seller /oonsignor of the goods in respect of whiob 

this declaration is madu and that tho particulars givon above are true and 
Strike out ( a ) that tho invoice vulus doolured is the full export value of the goods and 
1 * Claudo 

is the same as that contracted with the buyer ; 
( 8 or b ) not 
applicable (5 ) that this is a fair valuation of the goods whioh are unsold . 

I/my principals undortake that I /they will doliver to the bank mentioned below 

the foreign exchange /rupeo proceed : rosulting from the export of these goods 
on or before * ~ 


(Name and address of the bank ini India 
through whom payment is to be received .) 


( Signature of exporter ) 


Address — 


Date 


Note. — All dooumonts relating to export of goods from India must be passed through the 

medium of an authorised dealer in foreign exchange in India . 
See page 2 of form for methods of Anunce permittod . 
* Givo approximato date of dolivory which must be within six months of erport . 


PART II — SEC. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1952 


- 713 


NOTES TO EXPORTERS 
Tho G . R . from procedure applies to exports to all countrias excluding Pakistan 
Afghwustun , Nepal, Tiliet , Bluulin and French and Portugilago torritories in India . Th 
methods by which paymonty for (ixporte to lifTerent countries inay ho received are state 
below - 


Names of Countries 


Approved methods of finance 


A . 


The Belgian Monet:lry Area ; Canada , (a ) Tho currency of the country of import 
Egypt ( including CAZA, Strip ) ; Tho or of nny other country in the Swing 
French Frano Arau (excluding tho Fronch nonethiv ATOA. 
Pogaensions in In - lir ) ; The Ironoh (h ) Sterling from the rocount of a resident 
Somali Coast ; The Portugueme Monetary in the country of import or of any other 
Area (excluding Portugueno possessions 

country in the Aamo inonetury arou . 
in Indin ) ; Switzerland und Liochtanatoin ; (c ) Rupees from the account of a bunk in the 
The Dutch Monotury Area (excluding tho country of import or of any other 
Republin of Indonesia und Dutch Now country in the sume monetary urea . 
Guinea ) ; Denmark (including Tarve 
Islands ) and Greenland ; Norway and 
Sweden . 
U . S . A . and any torritories under the ( a ) U . S . dollarg . 
Sovoreignty of the U .8 . A . ; Philippine (1 ) Storling from the arcount of w regidont 
Inlands ; Bolivia ; Colombia ; Costa in any country in the group . 
Rica ; Cuba ; Dominican Ropublio ; (c ) Rupees form thu nocount of a bank in any 
Equador ; Guutoinalu ; Haiti ; country in tho group . 
Honduras ; Moxico ; Nicaragua ; Pang 
ma ; Salvador & Vonozuola , 
Tho Schedulod Turritorios , i.e ., The British (u ) Sterling or Any utorling area ourrency 
Commonwealth ( except Canada ) ; the other than Indian and Pakistan rupees 
Irial Republic ; British Trust Territories ; from the account of a resident in any . 
Britislı Protectorates and Protected country in this group other than India 
States ; Burma ; Iraq ; Iceland ; the Au Pakistan . 
Heslemnite Kingdom of the Jordan ; (6 ) Rupeos from the Account of a bank in any 
Libya . 

country in this group other than India 

tuzid Pukistalii. 
All countries not mentioned in groups ( a ) Sterlug froin tho account of a resident 
A , B and C above , 

in the country of import. 
(b ) Rupoes from the account of a bank in 

the country of import . 


D . 


Note .- - ( 1 ) In all olbog page 1 nust be completed and subinitted to the Customs in ordor to ob 

tain necessary permission to ship the gooc14 , Tu Melyn of sterling Bills on London 
under oredit , i. o., under Soction ( c ), nnd also under 5 (« ), Pagos 3, 3 and 7 must also be 
completed in the eamı way All pagol Anllitudod uver to the authorised dualer in 
foreign « xuhange through whuin the bill is negotiuted . 
In all other cases , i. e., whoro the mothod of obtaining payinont for the goods is ono 
of thoso luid down in Section 5 ( u ), ( b ) or (d ), pages 3 and 5 must be completed in 
tlie same way ng pago 1 und handed over to the authorised donlar in foreign 
oxchungo through wlown payment for the shipment in bewg revolved , 


Form G . R . 1 . 

Duplicate copy together with a copy 
of shipper s invoice to be submitted 
to Reserve Bank through an Autho 

rised dealer in foreign exchange . 
FOR SHIPMENTS FROM INDIA ONLY 
( All ceports from poris in India must be declared on G . R . forms only .) 

EXCHANGE CONTROL 
Serial No . . . . . . 
Shipping Bill No . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Rupee Value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Shipment : . . . . . . . . . 

This form does not apply for export to Pakistan and Afghanistan . For export to these 
countries form E . P . must be ugod . 

(Docloration requirod from exporter bufore shipping commodities to countries outside 
India other than Nepal, Tibet Bhutan and French and Portuguese territories in India .) 
1 . Exporter s Name 
2 . Country of destination of goods 


St 


Port of 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


. . 


. . 


14 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 8 , 1982 


[ PART II — SEC. S 


- 


- 


8 . Short degoription and quantity of goods 
4 . Invoioo valuo of goods ( atating ourronoy ) . . 
(Shipping charg88, ingurance oto ., if not inoluded in prioo) - - - 

Tobal 
3 . Method by whloh payment is to be resolved in India . 

(a ) Goods invojood in permitted foreign currency and payment ro. 

ooived through a bank in India by 
Striko out 

(1) nogotiating or sending for oolleotion bills and /or doouments 
OLAUQ08 not 

drawn in 
applioablo 

(stato outrony) 
( it) remittance in - - - - 

- - 

- - - - - - - - - 

(state foreign Ourrenoy ) 
(6 ) Goods invoiced in rupees and payment recoived through a bank 

in India by 
(1) negotiating or gonding for colleotion bills and /or dooumonts 

drawn in rupees . . . . . . . 
( it ) remittanoo in rupeos . . 
( o ) Goods involoed in storling and payment receivod through a bank 

in India by negotiation of a gterling bill on London drown under 
& credit oither registered with tho Bank of England on Form 
E . 2 under No. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

(Mention Bank of England No .) 
or without such a registration providing for roimburgomont 
by & gale of foreign currency or by transfer from the permittod 

sterling scoount in the United Kingdom . . . . . . . 
(d ) Goods invoiced in sterling ,and payment received through a bank 
in India by 
pogotiating 

billo 

- - drawn in 
Bending for collection storling shipping dooumonts 
on tho country of destination of goods , payment to be received 
in sterling from the permitted sterling Account in the United 
Kingdom 
(it ) Temittanoo in aterling, the gtorling being received from 

the permitted sterling account in tho United Kingdom 
(b ) Good . Invoiood in sterling and paymont reçoived through a 

bank in India by 
nogotiating 

bills 

- drawn in 
sonding for collection shipping documents 
sterling on 

(Mention name of sterling aree country concerned .) 
A sterling aroa gountry other than the U . K . providing for reim 
bursement by transfer from the permitted sterling socount 
in the United Kingdom . . . 


atstod 


Striko out I hereby deolaro that I am the seller / oongignor of the goods in respoot of which this 
olaus 

declaration is made and that the particular , given above are true and 
( e or b ) (a ) that the invoion value deolarod is the full export yaluo of the goods and to tho 
not appli 

mame as that contracted with the buyer. 
cable (b ) that thig is a fair valuation of the goods which are unsold . 

I/my principale undertako that I thay will deliver to tho bank mentioned below the 

foreign exchange / rupoe proceeds resulting from the export of these goods on 
or before - 


(Signature of exportor ) 


(Namo and address of the bank in India 
through whom payment is to be received .) 

Address 


Date 


Noto. - All dooumonts relating to osport of goods from India must be pageed through the me 

dium of an authoriged dealer in foroign exchange in India . 
See page 2 of form for methods of finance permitted , 
* Give approximate date of delivery which must be within six months of oxport . 


PART II - SEC. 37 . THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 8, 1952 

710 
S L 

- - - 
Strike out Cortifloato by buthorised doulor in India through whom bills are negotiated or oolloolad 
ala tige not 

or through whom payment for goods is received . 
applicable 

Wo horoby oortify that wo havo negotiatod bills / received bills /shipping documents for col 
loction to the value of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . A8 declared under sootion 8 ( a ) (b ) (0 )/ (d )/ 
( ) and wo undertake to 800 that proceeds are received by us on or before * . . . , 
di a manner approved by the Exchange Control or that an explanation is furnished to tho 
Rogorve Bank of India as to the roagon for non - delivery . 


Ог 


We hereby cerbify that we have received , . . . 
goods ag deolared under Section B (a )/(6 )/ (d ) /(o ) . 


. . . . . . . . . . in payment of the 


(Signaturo of authorised doalor) 
Dato 


* within six months . 


NOThe TO BANKY 
1 . Pagos 3 and 4 should be submitted to the Reserve Bank of India together with a copy of ship . 

por a involo immediately after the authorised dealer oompletop the certifloato abovo . 
8 . On receipt of the proceeds of bills or oonsignmont ghiprent, under section ( a ), (e ) or (a ) tho 

authorised dosler will forward to tho Rogerve Bank of India tho triplioate copy of this form 
with the appropriato cortifloato on the rover o of the copy duly completed . In rempoot of 
consignment shipments the wooount sales or other satisfactory dooumentary evidence in 
support of tho proceeds actually reallged should be forwarded along with the triplioate 
copy of the form . In the event of the proceeds not boing received by the dato atatod an 
explanation mugt bo furnished to the Rogerve Bank of India quoting tho number and 

date of this form , 
3 . In the case of billa drawn and negotiated for only part of the invoice amount the triplicato 

copy of the form should be retained by the authorised dealer until the full proceeds of tho 
ghipment have been recolved by him , except in cases where payment of the balanço lo being 
roovivad by a different method , whon separato G . R . I . forms for the balance atating tho 

method by whioh paymont is being made should be completed by the shipper , 
4 . In the 0890 of bille drawn in storling on London under credit ( .. ., Soo 0 ( c) pagos 5 / 7 must be 

forwarded to London attachod to the relative bilg. In the case of sterling bills on London 
covering shipment to United Kingdom or countries within the sohoduled torritories ( . . ., 
the sterling arga ) pages 6 / 7 nood not be sent to London but on receipt of advice of pay . 
megt of bills from London , the authorigod dealer should forward to tho Reserve Bank of 

India the triplicato copy with the certificate under section 5 (a ) duly completed . 
8 . In the case of shipments financed under mothod B (o ) pago , 5 / 7 must be forwarded to tho 

1 sterling area oorrespondent attached to the relativo blīla . 


Spaoo for uge by the Reserve Bank of In la 


Month and year Amount A . D . Country Currenoy 
9 - 12 

38 -42 49. 50 62- 64 08 .56 


Method of 
Finanoo 

58 


Torm of 
Contract 

00 


Commodity 

61 . 83 


Ooded 


Cheoked 


Punohed 


Verified 


- 718 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1952 


( PART II - Sec . 3 


Serial No . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IIIII 


NUOW1401 


. 


Form G . R . 1 

Triplioate copy to be forwarded either 
to London with 18t of Exchange or to 
the Reserve Bank As the cage may be 
through An authorised dealer in 

foreign exchange 
FOR SHIPMENTS FROM INDIA ONLY 
( All exports from porls in India must be declared on G . R . forms only ). 

EXCHANGE CONTROL 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Steamer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , 
Shipping Bill No .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Port of Shipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . 
Rupee Value . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. 

This form does not apply for export to Pakistan and Afghanistan . For export to these ! 
countries from E . P . must be used, 

(Declaration required from exporter beforo shipping commodities to countried cutsii lidi , 
other than Nepal, Tibet Blutun und French and Portuguese territories in India ). 

1 . Exporter s Name 
2 . Country of destination of goods 
3. Short description and quantity of goods 
4 . Invoive value of goods ( stating currenay ) 
(Shipping charges , ingurance etc ., if not including in price 


TOTAL 


: 


. 


8 . Method by which payment is to be received in India . 
ont (a ) Goods invoiced in permitted foreign currency and payment recei. 

ved through a bank in India by 
claused not 
applicable (i) negotiating or sending for collection bille and /or documents 
drawn in 

(state currency ) 
( ii) remittanco in - 

(state foreign currenoy ) 
(6 ) Goods invoiced in rupees and payınent rocoived through a bank 

in India by 
(i) negotiating or gonding for colleotion bills and /or documents 

drawn in rupeos . . 
( it) romittanco in rupees 
(0 ) Goodsinvoicedingterling and payment roceived through a bank in 

India by negotiation of a sterling bill on London drawn under & 
credit either registered with tho Bank of England on Form E . 2 
under No. - 

(Mention Bank of England No .) 
or without guoh a registration providing for reimbursement by a 
Bale of foreign currency or by trungſor from the permittod sterling 

Quoount in the United Kingdom . . . . . 
(d ) Goods invoiced in sterling and payment received through a bank 
in India by 
negotiating 

bille 

drawn in sterling 
(?) sending for colleotion ghipping doouments 

on the country of destination of goods , payment to 
in gterling from the permitted storling account 

Kingdom , 
( 20 ) remittance in storing the storling being received Irom the 

permitted sterling account in tho United Kingdom i 
( c) Goode invoiced in sterling and payment received throu 
in India by 
Negotiating 

Bills 

: drawn in 
gunding for collection shipping documenta 
storling on Mention name of sterling area contry concerned ) 
A sterling area country other than the U . K . providing for ro 
imburgement by trungfor from the permitted sterling account 

in the United Kingdom . . . . . . - 
I hereby declare that I am the seller / consignor of the goods in respeot of which this 
docluration is made and that the particulars given above are true and 


Pu 


h ec. by 


BLE GAZETTE OT INDIA , MAY 3, 1962 


. 


. 717 


Btoko out 
olauge (a 
or b ) not 
epplloable 


(a ) that the invoice value declared ie the full export value of the gcode and in 

the same as that contracted with the buyer . 
(6 ) that this is & fuir valuation of the goods which are ungold . 
I /my principale undertake that I /they will deliverio the land mentioned Lelow tlo 

foreign exchange /rureoe proceods tobulting from the export of these goods on or 
before 


(Name and address of the bank in India through 
whom payment is to be recoivod .) 


(Signature of exporter) 


Dato . . . . . , 


Addresa - 


Note. -- All documents relating to export of goods from India must be passed through the 
medium of an authorised dealer in foreign exchango in India . 

See page 2 of form for mothods of Anance permitted . 

* Givo approximate dato of delivery which must be within gix months of export . 
Striko out Certificate by bank in the United Kingdom receiving the proceeds of shipments by 
this portion method ( c ) of section 6 . 
when form Amount and description of currency 
18 retained Sold to the Bank of England on 
to India , 

or 
Sold to 

( Name of authorised dealer ) 
on 

- - - - - - for surrender to the Bank of England . 
We confirm that the amount of foreign currency efecified above was received 
by us and diepoged of ag gtated . 


We confirm that peyment bas been received by a cheque or draft for £ 
drawn on /or by a trangfer from - 

( Insert name of Sterling Alo in the United 

Kingdom ) 
Addrosa . 

(On behalf of the Bank ) 


UDNII . . . . . . . . . III 


III 


Certificate by bank in a sterling area country other than the United Kingdom 
receiving the proceeds of shipments by method (6 ) of section . 5 . 
We confirm that the 

- - - - - - -- - - - W218 received by to 
OD - A 

( Insert namo of account from which 

payment was received ) 
Addross 

( On behalf of the Bank ) 


Btrike out 
this portion 
when form in 
forwarded to 
London . 


Oertificate by authorised dealer in foreign exchange in India receiving full proocada 
of shipments by method ( a ), (b ) and (d ) of Section 8 . 

Section 5 ( a ) 
We confirm that 

_ was received by us 
(atato foroiga qurronoy ) 


Date 
(*) by credit ( 8) to ouraccount with our agentin - - - 
(" ) by a draft or T , T , 
Sortion 6 (6 ) 
We confirm that RA. - - - - 

- woro received by us 

by 
(1) transfer from the rupeo account in India of a bank in - - - 

( State name of Co . 

untry ). 
(u ) a remittance from London , the sterling with which the rulers were pur 
ohaped being provided from a - - 

(state name of Sterling Account in the 

United Kingdom ) 
or by a sale of 

- to the London Control 

(State foreign ourrency ) 
( itt) sale to a bank in India of 

(State foreign currenoy). 


* 718 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY $; 1962 


( PART I - SC 


! 


Section 6 (d ) 
We confirm that 

was rocoivod by us 
on 

- from - - 

(Name of the storling Alo in the United 

Kingdom ) 
( 1) by oredit to our account with our Agents in London , 

(ii ) by a sterling draft or T . T . 
Dato 

(Signature of authorised dagler ) 


Authorised dozlara should oonpleto ujetifoxte undur seation (u ) in 040 of sterling billa on 
London covering , ghipmatu to U . & or countries within the sterling area . 

* Authorised dolors in 1st rouset thair Ladua A gente whan advising them that sterling 
paymjata bave boya 

n o to their ocelit to state source from whigh they have been received 
to oqublo dealers to complete this declaration , 


Borm G B 1 


bo 
2nd 


tore 


Quadruplioato copy to 
warded to London with 

Erohange . 
FOR SHIPMENTS FROM INDIA ONLY 
( All otports from ports in India must bo declared on G , R . forma only .) 

EXCHANGE CONTBOL 


Borial No. 

Steamor 
Bhipping Bill No . - 

Port of 
Rupee Value - 

Shipment 
Thig forn does not apply for export to Pakistan and Afghaniatan. For Oxport to thow 
oountries forn E . P . must be used . 

(Deolaration roquired from exporter before shipping commodities to countrie ogtold 
India other than Nepal, Tibet , Bhutan and French and Portuguedo territories in India .) 

1. Exporter s Name 
2 . Country of destination of goods 
8 . Short description and quuntity of goods 
4 . Invoice value of goods (stating currency) 
(Shipping charges , insurance oto ., if not includod in prloo) 

Total 


8 . Method by which payınent is to be recolved in India . 

(a ) Goods invoiood in permitted foreign ourronoy and payment received 

through a bunl in India by 
Strike out 

(i) negotiating or sending for colleotion bills and /or dooumenta draw io . 
ClA11909 not 
happlioable 

( state ourruncy ) - 
(ii) reinittanco in - 

( state foreign ourrenoy ) 
(6 ) Goods invoiced in rupees and payment received through 

a bank in India by 
(i) nogotiating or sending for colleotion bills and /or dood 
monte drawn in rupoos . . . 

(ir) remittance in rupees 
(0) Goods involond in sterling and payment recolved through 

a bank in India by negotiation of a sterling bill on London 
drawn under a credit either regiatered with tho Bank of 
England on Form E . 2 undor No . – 

(Mention Bank of England No.) 
or without such a registration providing for reimbursemont 
by & sale of foreign Ourrenoy or by transfer from the per. 

mitted sterling account in the Unitod Kingdom . . 
(d ) Goods invoiced in sterling and payment toooived through 
a bank in Judia by 
negotiating 

billa 

- - drawn in storling 
vaading for collection shipping dooumentu 

on tho country of destination of goods, paymont tin bo 


PART 1 - 8 & c. 8 ] 


THE GAZ :HTTE OF INDIA , MAY 8, 1962 


received in aterling from the permitted sterling socount 

in the United Kingdom 
( 1 ) remittanoo in sterling the sterling being received from 

the permitted sterling Acoount in the United Kingdom 
(d) Goods invoiced in sterling and payment received through 

a bank in India by 


in 


negotiating 

bill , 

drawn 
Hending for collection whipping doorroenta 
sterling on _ _ 

(Mention name of sterling aros country oonoorn 
ed ) Anterling eres country other than the U . K . providing 
for reimbursement by transfer from the permittod stort. 
ing scoount in the United Kingdom - - - 


I hereby deolare that I am tho seller /oonsignor of the goods in rospoot of 

whloh this declaration is made and that the partioulars given above are true and 
Striko out (a ) that the invoice value declared in the full export value of the goods and 
olause ( a or b ) 

is the same as that contracted with the buyor . 
not applicable 

(6 ) that this is a fair valuation of the goods whioh 4ro unsold . 

I/my principals undortake that I/they will delivor to the bank montloped 
below the foreign exchange /rupoe proco . de resulting from the osport of the 
goods on or before * 


* * (Signature of osport or ) 


(Name and address of the bank in India 
through whom payment is to be received .) 


Addross 


Dato 


Nato. - - All donumuula relating to export of goods from India must be passed through the 

inodiurn of a Quthorisod dealer in foreiga oxchange in India . 
See page 2 of form for methods of finance permittod . 
" Give approximato date of delivery whioh must be within six months of export . 


Strike out this Certificate by bank in the United Kingdom receiving the proocodo of shipmonia 
Portion when method (o ) of section 5 . 
orn is retained Amount and description of ourrondy 
1 India 

Sold to the Bank of England on 

Or 
Sold to 

(Name of authorised dealer ) 

- - for surrender to the Bank of England . 
We confirm that the amount of foreiga qurronoy specified above was re 
golved by us and disposed of as stated , 

Wo confirm that payment has boon fooolved by a chequo or draft for 
drawu on /or by a transfer from 

(Insert name of Storling Alo in the United Kingdom ) 


Address 


(On behalf of the Bank ) 


Oartifloato by bank in a sterling aror country other than the United Kingdom 
reodiving the proccordo of shipmonts by method ( ) of section 5 . 
We confirm that £ 

- - was rocelvod by me 
on 

from 
(Insert name of wooount from whio b paymont way roovivad ) 
Addro 

(On bobalf of the Bank ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1952 


[ PAXT 11 - SEC . 3 


Porn G . B . 8 


Original copy to be submitted to 
Ouetomg. 


FOR SHIPMENTS FROM INDIA ONLY 


EXCHANGE CONTROL 


Steamer 


Boe notes 
on page 2 


Berlal No. 
Shipping Bill No. 

Port of 
Rupoe Valto 

- Shipment 
(Declaration required from exportor who is shipping commoditiee from a 
port in the Indian Union to the countries Apecified on reverne urder ondertekin , 
to the Bank of England to deliver foreign currenoy or obtain payment from and 
Approved Sterling Account in London ) 

1. Exporter : Name 
2 . Country of destination of goods 
3 . Bhort dohoription and quantity of goods 
4 . Invoice value of goods (Btating currency ) (Shipping 

charges , insurance oto., if not included in prices 


Total 


6 . Approximate date on which foreign exchango 

will be delivered , or payment will be obtained 


Btrike out 
) or (U ) 


6. Method of payment: Undor * guaranted by 


to the Bank of England 


to 


(1) deliyer the relativo 
foreign ourronoy 

Or 
(* ) obtain payment 

from 


( Ingert Name of 
sterling slo in 

London ) 


We hereby doolare that we are the sellers of the goods in refpect of which this declaration 
Is made, that the particulars therein are true and correct, that the invoice value le to the best 
of our knowledge based on the full value as contracted with buyers and that our London agents 
have undertaken to Butender to the Bank of England a cortificate from an authorised dealor 
exchange in London showing that 

( ) the full value of the shipment bas been received from an approved Sterling Account 

in London 


or 


(11) the full value of the ghipment has been hurrendered to such authorised dealer in the 

appropriate foreign aurrenoy 


Dato 


( Signature of Seller) 
Address 


Note . - This form does not epply to export of commodities to the United Kingdum aud to : 
oountries within the storling area , 


PART 1 - 


c. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 8, 1982 


NOTAB TO EXPORTERS COMPLETING FOBX G . R . 2. 
Names of Countries 

Approved mothod of Ananos 
A . The Belgian Monetary Area , Canada and Guarantee to doliver the Ourrenoy of the 
Newfoundland , Egypt (including Gaza strip ), country of import or of any other country 
The Fronoh Fruno ANA (oxcluding the in the same monetary area 
Fronoh poagogeions in Indiu ), The Fronoh 
Somali Coast , The Portuguese Montary to obtain payınent in sterling from tho 
Ara ( coludin : Portu punya p07303viong pocount of resident in the country of 
in India ), Switzerland und Lieuhtonatein , import or any other country in the sam 
The Dutoh Monetary Area (exoluding the monetary Arda . 
Republic of Indonesia and Dutoh New 
Guineu ), Denmark (including Taroe Islands) 
and Greenland, Norway and Sweden . 


or 


B . U . S . A . and any territories under the BOVE - Guarantee to deliver U . S . dollars 

reignty of the U . S . A ., Philippine Islande , 
Bolivia , Colombia , Costa Rica , Cuba , Domi. 
nioan Republic , Ecuador , Gautemala , to obtain payment in sterling from the 
Haiti, Honduras, Mexico , Nisargua , Panama, Booount of a resident in any country in the 
Salvador and Vonuzuola . 

group . 


0 . All countries not mentioned in groups A and Guarantee to obtain payment in sterling from 
B abovo othur than Schedulod Turritorios , tho sooount of a resident in the country of 

import . 


Nolo - ( 1 ) In all 01399 pica 1 must ha comploted and submitted to tho Customs in order to 

obtain necessary permission to ship tho goods, 
( 2 ) Whore sterliny trill : ille drawn on London against the shipmonte page 8 , 6 and 7 

mist also ba Oinpleted in tha suma WAY A9 page and handed over to the authorised 

daalor in foreign exchange through whom tho bills aro negotiated . 
( 3 ) In 034a9 wlisca no bills ce drawn but the 11411Al practice of the exporter is to send 

shipping 10 . mats dicant to his London OverHOS Agonts , the following procedure 
whould bowdopted : 

Prye 3 must lo completed and submitted to the Reserve Bank of India togother 
with a copy of the invoice Along with the monthly statement of their account 
with thoir Lun .lon Ottoo . Puges J and 7 must be similarly complotod and the 
respectivo oupies forwarded to the London Agents of the exporter by goperato 
mailt in order that tho Loudon Agonts may be in & position to arrange for tho 
certificate on the rovurso of the form to be completed and duly submitted . 


Forn G . R . 2 


Duplimate oopy together with a copy 
of shippr s avotoe to be submitted 
to R39011a Btak oits3r dirzot along 
with non uly 3127.1994 or through 
An authorlod dəalot in foreigo 

exchange . 
110R NILIPMENTS FROM INDIA ONLY 


TICHANGE CONTROL 


Encinl No . 

- - - - 

Steamer 
Shipping Bill No. - - 

Port of 
R : A Valuee 

- Shipment 
Daglaration raqird from exorter wlio is shipping commodities frord a 
port in the Indian Union to the countries specified on reverse under undertaking 
to the Bank of England to duliver foreign currency or obtain payment from ad 
approverl Storliny Acoount in London ) 


Soo notos 
Фn page 2 


1 . Exporter s Name 
2. Country of destination of goods 
3. Short description and quantity of goods 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1962 


[PART 1 - SEC. * 


- - 


- 


1. Involos value of goods (stating currenoy ) 

(Bhipping charges , Insurance eto ., if not 
included in prioo ) 


Total 


8 . Approximato date on which foreign 

exchango will be delivered , or payment 
will be obtained 


trite out 
or ( 1) 


6 . Mothod of payment: Under * guarantee 

by 


to the Bank of England to 4 
(*) deliver the relative foreign 
Ourrenoy 

or 
( ii) obtain payment from 


( Insert Name of sterling alo fa 

London ) 


Wo hereby declare that we are the sellers of the goods in respect of which this declaration 
I made, that the particulars therein are true and corruct, that the invoice value is to be best 
of our knowledge based on the full value as contracted with buyers and that our London agents 
havo undertaken to surrender to the Bank of England a certificate from an authorised dealer 
la orohange in London showing that 

(i) the full value of tho shipment has been received from an approved Sterling Account 

in London 


or 


( 11) the full value of the shipmont has been surrendered to such authorised dealer in the 

appropriate foreign ourtenoy 


( Bignature of Sallor) 
Addross 


Date 


Noto. This form does not apply to export of commodities to the Unitod Kingdom and to 
bopntrios within the sterling area . 


* Oertificate by authorised dealer in foreign exchange in the Dominion of India through whom 
Dulls are negotiuted in cases where sterling bills are draun on London agnind the shipments. 

We hereby certify that we negotiated bille to the value of £ - - 
gainst tho sbipment specified on page 3 of this form . 


( Signature of authorised dealer) 
Dato - - - 


• This oortificate must not bo furnished if bills are not drawn against the shipments . 


Form G . B . 8 

Triplicato copy to be forwarded to 
London either attached to the frut 
of Exchango if bills are drawn of 

direct if no bills are drawn , 
FOR SHIPMENTS FROM INDIA ONLY 

MICHANGE CONTROL 
Horial No. 

Stoamor 
Shipping Bill No . 

Port of 
Rupes Value 

- Shipment 


Bee notes 

page 3 


(Daglaration required from exporter who is shipping commodities from o 
part in the Indian Voion to the countrie spooiflod on roverte under undertaking 


HAT I - tec a ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1962 


728 


to tho Bank of England to deliver foreigo ourronoy or obtain paymont from a 
Approved Storling Account in London ). 


1. Exporter s No . 


2 . Country of destination of goods 
8. Short desoription and quantity of goods 


4 . Involoo valuo of goods (atating Ourrency 

(Shipping charges inguranoe ato ., if not 
boludod in price ) 

Total 


8 . Approximato date on which foreign 

oxchange will bo dollvered , or payment 

will be obtained . 
6 . Method of payment. Under * guarantee by - - 


8tHke out 
Q ) or (ü ) 


to the Bank of England to 
( 1) deliver the relative foreign 

currency 
(ii ) obtain payment from F 


ог 


(Insert Nome of sterlinglalo 

in London ) 


We hereby declare that we aro the sellers of the goods in respect of which this declaration 
to made, that the particulars therein are true and correct, that the invoice value in to the best 
of our knowledge based on the full value as contracted with luyers and that our London agenta 
havo undertaken to surrender to the Bank of England a certificate from an authorised dealor 
the orobango in London showing that 

(1) the full value of the shipment has boen received from an approved Sterling Account 

in London 


or 


( * ) the full value of the shipment has been surrendered to such authorised dealer in 
the appropriate foreign currenoy 

( Signature of Seller ) X ] 


Dato 


Addrene - 


- 


Noto . This form does not apply to export of conmodities to the United Kingdom and to 
ountries within the gtorling area . 
Certificato by bank in the United Kingdom reodiving the proceeds of shipment: 

Amount and desoription of ourrency 
Bold to the Bank of England on 

or 
Sold to 

(Name of Authorised dealer ) 
on 

for surrender to the Bank of 
Angland . 

We confirm that the amount of currency specified above was recolved by us and disposed 
of as stated , 

Wo confirm that paymont has been roceived by a choque drawn on (or a draft rolmburkablo 
from ) 
( Insert name of Sterling Account in London ) 

(On behalf of the Bank ) 
Address 


ог 


724 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3. 1952 


[PART 11 - 9 


. 2 


EM L 


Form G . R . 2 


Quadruplicate copy to be forwarded 
to London either attached to the 2nd 
of Exchange if bills are drawn or 
direct if no bills are drawn . 


FOR SHIPMENTS FROM INDIA ONLY 


EXCHANGE CONTROL 
Serial No. 7 

Steamer 
Shipping Bill No. 

Port of 
Rupee Value 

Shipment 
(Declaration required from exporter who is shipping commodities from a 
port in the Indian Union to the countries specified on reverse under underktaking 
to the Bank of England to deliver foreign currency or obtain payment from an 
approved Sterling Account in London ) 


See notes 
on pago 728 


1 . Exporter s Name 


2 . Country of destination of goods 
3 . Short description and quantity of goods 
4 . Invoice value of goods (stating currency ) 

( Shipping charges , insurance etc ., if not 
included in price ) 


Total 


* Strike out 
(i) or ( ii ) 


5 . Approximate date on which foreign 

exchange will be delivered , or payment 

will be obtained 
6 . Mytholof paymənt: Under * guarantee by - - - 


to the Bank of England to 
(i) deliver the relatiye foreign 

currency 


or 


( ii) obtain payment from 
( Insert Name of sterling alo 

in London ) 


eine We hereby declare that we are the sollərs of the goods in respect of which this declaration 
is made , that the purticulars therein are true and correct , that the invoice value is to thọ best 
of our knowledge based on the full vali13 di contracted with buyers and that our London agents 
have undertaken to surrendor to the Bunk of England a certiớcate from an authorised dealer 
in exchange in London showing that 

(i) the full value of the shipment has been received from an approved Sterling Account 
in London . 

or 
(ii) the full value of the shipment has been surrendered to such authorised dealer in the 

appropriate foreign currency 


(Signature of Sellor ) 


Date 


Address 


Note . This form does not apply to export of commodities to the United Kingdom and to 
countries within the sterling area . 


PÅRT TT - SEC . 3f 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 8, 1958 


Or 


Certificate by bank in the United Kingdom receiving the proceeds of shipmont : 

Amount and description of ourrency 
Sold to the Bank of England on — -- - 
Sold to . 

(Namo of Authorisod dealer ) 

for surrender to the Bank of 
England 

We confirm that the amount of ourTonoy specified above was received by us and disposed 
of a stated . 


On 


or 


Wo oonfirm that paymont has been rocolved by a choque drawn on (or a draft reimbursable 
Erom ) 

(Insert name of Sterling Account in London ) 


(On behalf of tho Bank ) 
Address 


Porm G , R . 3 

Original Copy to be submitted 

to Customs 
INDIA 

ESCHANCE CONTROL 
Serial No . 

Steamer 
Shipping Bill No. - - : - 

Port of 
Rupee Valuo 

Shipment- a - . 
Declaration required from exporter before shipping commodition outside India 
1. Exportor s Nam , 
2 . Country of destination of goods . 
3 . Shortc ription and guntity of goods. 
4 , Invoice Value of gonils ( tuting currency ) 
(Shipping charges, insurance eto,, if not included in prive ) 

Total 


Vethod by which payment is to be rerlised 1 

We hernby declaro that the invoice value herein stated represents the full export value of 
ho goude and that the annount will he diapogod of in a manner and within a period specified by 
he Reserve Bank , 


Signaturo of Exporter . 
* G . R . 3 Licence No . - - - Date + 
Aildress 


Dato 


* Nole . - - This furen can only be used under youind license from the Reservo Bank . 


T orm G . R . 3 


Duplioate oopy to be submitted 

to the Reserve Bank 


INDIA 


EXCHANGE CONTROL 


- 


- 


eriul No . 
hipping Bill No . - - . 
upee Value - -- - - 


Steardor 
Port of 
Shipinent 


Declaration required from exporter before shipping commoditios outside India 
I , Exporter s Nume 
2 . Country of destination of goods , 
3 . Short description and quuntity of goods. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA , MAY 3 , 1962 


[PART 1 – 8xc. $ 


Lovaino value of goods (stating ourronoy ) 
( Shipping obarges , insuranco eto ., if not included in price ) 


Total 


Method by which payment is to be realised - 


We hereby declare that the involop value heroin statod represents the full osport value of 
the goods and that the amount will be disponod of in a manpor and within a period spociflod by 
be Reserve Bank . 


Signaturo of Exporter . 
* G . R , 3 Lioenoo No. - - Date 
Address 


Deto 


* Nota — This form can only be used under special licence from the Reserve Bank . 


Ford G . A . 8 

Triplicate copy to bo forwarded to the 

Rosorvo Bank 
INDIA 

EXCHANGE CONTROL 
Berja ) Nometne - - - L - Steamor 
Shipping Bill No. 

- 

Port of 
Rupee Value - 

osoa Shipment - - - 
Declaration required from exporter before shipping commodities outside India , 
1. Exportor . Name 
2. Country of destination of goods 
8 . Short description and quantity of goodø 
4. Invoice Valuo of goods (otating currency ) 

(Shipping charges , iDBurance etc., if not included in price ) 


TOTAL 


Method by which payment is to be realised 


We hereby declare that the invoice value herein stated represents the full export valuo of 
the goods and that the amount will be disposed of in a manner and within a period specified by 
tho Reserve Bank . 


Signature of Exporter. 

* G .R . 8 Lloence No. Dato 

Addropges 
Data 
I/We confirm that , 

- VW 
( State ourroney and amount receivod ) 
roovived by us on - 

(1) by credit to our account with our agents in 
( ü ) by a banker s draft or T. T . 
( Banker s payment advice ghould be attachod ). 

(Bignature of Exporter) 


* Note .-- This form can only be wed undor epecial licence from the Resorve Bapk. 


PART 1 - Stc. 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3 , 1952 


72T 


S 


Form G . B . I . 

Original copy to be 

submitted to oustom 
FOR SHIPMENTS FROM PORTS IN INDIA ONLY 

ΕτοΙΑΝΟ UoNTROL 
Berlal No .. . . . . . . . . 

Steamer . . . . . . 
Shipping Bill No.. 

Port of 
Rupee Valoo . . . . . ... 

Shipment . 
( Doclaration required from emporter beforo shipping commodities to such countries us may be 

notified from time to timo) 
1. Exporter s Name 
2 . Country of deatination of goods 
8 . Bhort doboription and quantity of goods 
4 . Invoice value of goods ( stating curronoy ) 

(Shipping charges , insurance eto . if not inoluded in prioo ) 
5 . Mohod by which payment is received in India . 

Total . 
(a ) Goods in voiced in currency of country of import or U . S . dollars and 
( 1) Payment to be received through a bank in India by negotia . 

ting bills and / or documents drawn in tho appropriate foreign 
ourronoy or U . 8 . dollar undor an irrevocable confirmod credit 

opened by the foreign importer . . . . . 
(11) Payment already received through & bank in India by a 

retinittanoo of the appropriate foreign currency or U . S . dollars 


(6 ) Goods involond in rupees 
(6 ) Payment to be received through a bank in India by negotia 

ting bille and / or documente drawn under an irrevocable con . 
Armed credit opened by the foreign importor . , , 


( iv) Payment already roceived through a bank in India by # 

romittance from the foreign importer 


(o) Goods invoiced in sterling and 
( 1) Paymont to be received through a bank in India by nogotia . 

ting bills and /or documento drawn under an irrevocable 
confirmed credit opopod direct or through London by the 

foreign importer . 
(it) Payment already roceived through a bunk in India by a 

romittance from the foreign importer 


I hereby declare that I am the seller / consignor of the goods in respect of whloh 
this declaration in pade and that the particulare given above are true , and 

Strike out (a ) that the invoice value declared in the full valuo 
claugo not 

2B contracted with tho buyer , 
applioablo . 
* Give ap 

(6 ) that this is a fair valuation of the goods which 
proximate 

are ungold and I/my principule undertake that 
date of 

I/they will deliver to the bank mentionod below 
delivery 

the foreign exchange / rupee procoods roaulting 
which must 

from tho export of these goods on or before * 
be within 
HI month 

(Signature of Exporter ). 
of oxport. 

Name and address of bank in India Address 
through whom payment is to be received . 
Dato 


I /We hereby confirm that 
(a ) en irrovooable confirmed credit No. . . ... . . . . . . . . for . . . . . . 

expiring on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . has been opened a stated in Seotions 
govering the shipment described above 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3 , 1952 


[PART 1 - SEC . > 


Strike out 
olause not 
applioable . 


(b ) a remittance for 

- - --hag bean moeived on 
and has been allocatod against the shipmaqt dagoribed above , 
(1 ) in . . . . . . .. . 

... . . . stated in Section 8 ( a ) (11) 
( State olurrency ) 
(i ) in rupnog ag gtatad in Section 5 (b ) (i ), the rupee being provided 

from the appropriuto non -resident account of a bank , 
(ii) in gterling 48 gtated in Seotion 5 (c ) (it ), the starling bring provided 

from tho pomitted uouount in the United Kingdom . 
- - - 

(Signature of the authorimod 

dealer ) 


Date 


Noto. - - All doounats relating to export of goods from India inust be passed through the 
medium of a 1 uhlorine i lozler in foraign excha e in Iu liu . 


NOTES TO EXTORTERS 
( 4 ) Ia All NAOH page 1 mugt bo oninpleted and certifiod by an Authorised deslor in foroign 
Ichange to tho effeot that payinont hug yr dy baon rougivod or an irrevocablo oredit opened 
and thereafter Aubinitted to the oustoma in orcir to obtain tho 11002934ry perininyion to ghip the 
goods. If an oxport liqonoo for the goods is requirod, this form should ho oxhibited to the Export 
Controller. 

Page 3 of the form must be completed and hun.lud to tha # lithorised dolor, who signed 
the certificato on page 1 . 

( B ) In all qayog shipping documnts inust be handed to an Alzthorised dealer in foreigo 
Orchange with page 3 of Form G . R . X . 


Form G . R . X . 


Duploato copy together with a copy of 
bipper s invoice to be submitted to Rosorve 
Benk through an authorised dealer in 

foraign exchange. 
FOR SHIPMENTS FROM PORTS IN INDIA ONLY 

EXOLANGE CONTROL 


Berial No. - - - - - 


- - -- 


Stoamer 


Shipping Bill No . 

--- - Port of 
Rupeo Valio - - - 

Shipment 
(Declaration roquired from oxporter before shipping commodities to such countries 4.9 may be 

notified from time to time) 
1. Exporter s Naine 
2 . Country of destination of goods 
3 . Short description and quontity of goods 
4 . Invoico valvo of yoorly (staling currency ) . . . . . - 
(Shipping charge , insuranco otc. if not included in priro) 

Total 
J . Metholby which payment is received in Inlin ; 
(a ) food invoice in rurrence of country of import or U . 9. dollzra and 

(0) Payin ?)t to be l egeived through a bunk in rilia by 

notiktiny billy naror duelineaty douw in the appro 
pristoforoiin rurrercy or U . j. dollara curler iu irravoc . 

hla waGimulumit opened by tho íursigt importer . 
( 12) Payınant alrely nucaived throuh n bank in India by 

u rumittance of the approprinte foreign Ourrenny ur U . S . 

dollurs . . . . . . . . . 
(6 ) Goods invoiced in rupees 

( ) Payment to be tocuivod through a bank in India hy 

negotiating bills and / or documents drawn under an 
irrevocablo oonfrined oredit opened by the foreiga 

importer , 
( iv) Payment already receivod through a bunk in India by 

A remittanoo from the foreign importer . . . 


- 


- 


- 


# BARA 


" 3 ] ! THE GAZITTE - OF INDIA , NAY 4 . 1952 


( o ) Goods invoiced in sterling and 

( i ) Paymont to be recived through a bank in India hy 

negotiating bills and /or documento drewn under en 
: irrevocalle confirmed crodit opened direct or through 

London by the foreign importer . . 
(11) Payment alroady receivód through a bank in India by 

a remittance from the foreign importer . . 


I horehy deolare that I am the seller /consignor of the goods in respeot of which 
this declaration in modo and that the particulars given alovo are true , and 

( a ) that tho invoice valuo declared iş the full value as contracted with 

the buyer . 


Strike out 
Olauso not 
apploable . 

Give ap 
proximate 
date of 
dolivery 
whloh tugt 
be withio 
du months 
of oxport . 


( ) that this is a fair valuation of the goods which are unbold And I /my 

principals undertake that I/ they will deliver to the bank mentioned 
below the foreign exchanpe /rupee proceede resulting from the export 
of those goods on or before * 


(Signature of exporter). 


Name and address of bank in India 
through whom payment is to be received . 
Dato 


Address - 


I/ we hereby confirm that 
(a ) an irrevocable confirmed credit No . 

- for 
expiring one 

has been opened an gtatod in 
Seotion 5 covering the shipment described abovei 
( 0 ) A romittanoo for 

Z hag been received on 
and has been allocated against the ghipment dogoribed above, 
(1 ) in 

L as stated in Seotion 5 (a ) (i ). 
(Stato currency ) 
( 11 ) in rupeng Ag stated in Section 6 (6 ) ( it), the rupes being provided 

from the appropriate non -resident account of a bank , 
(itl) in gterling all atated in Seotion 5 (o ) ( tv ) the sterling being provided 

from the permittod aooount in the United Kingdom . 


Striko out 
olaya zot 
appHoable . 


Dato 


(Signature of the 

authorised doalor ) 


Noto All documents relating to export of goods from India must be passed through tho 
medium of an authorised dealer in foreign exchange in India . 


Oortificato of authorised dealer in India through whom billo aro negotiated or payment is received 

(5 ) We hereby certify that we have negotiated bille da declared under Section 8 undor credit 
No - - - - - in accordance with the statcment pade on the original of this fcim 

ох 
(11) Wo hereby cortify that we have received ghisring documente for the goods deecrid ed 
within against which we have paid Rs. - - - - - - out of remittance of - - - - - 
received in accordance with the statement on the origital of this form . (State currency ) 


1 . 


Det 


(8ignature of an authorised 

dealer) 


Porn 5 . P . 


Original copy to be submitted : 

to Customs. 


INDIA 


Serial No . 


Shipping Bill No. and Date - - 
Railway Bill No, and Date 
Air freight Receipt No, and Date 
Rupos Value 


EXCHANGE CONTROL 

Steamer / Country Craft 

| Railway Booking Station 
— NAME OF Airway Company , 

Owner of Barge 
n 

( Road Transport Company , 

Place of Exporter 
Namo of inland Customs barrier 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1962 


[ PART II - SC • 


( Thie form is to be used evolusively for declaring oports from India to Pakistan and Afghanistan 


1. Exporter s name — - . . 
2 . Country of destination of goods - - - 

( In the case of exports to Pakistan state whether East or West Pakistan ) 
3 . Short description and quantity of goods 
4, Invoico value of goods . 

Ro. 
( Shipping charges /Railway freight, 
insurance eto ., if not included in 
price ) . . . . . . 

Rs. 
Total value , , , , , , R . + 
8 . Method by which payment is to be receivrd in India . 
* (a ) Goods Invoiced in Pakistan rupees and pay . 

ment recoived through a bunk in India by : 
(0) negotiating or aonding for collection bills 

And / or dooumonta drawn in Pakistan 
rupees 


8trka out 
olau . ro Dot 
applicablo . 


(it) Romittanoo in Pakistan rupees 


( 6 ) Goods invoiced in Indian Tupons and payment 

received through a bank in India by : 
(1) negotiating or gending for colleotion bille 

and / or documents drawn in Indian rupees 


(ii) Romittance in Indian rupees 


. 


. 


I horoby doclare tut I am the bollor /consignor of the goods in redpoot of which 
this douleurrution is made and that particulare given above are true , and 

(it) that the invoice value declarod is the full value as contracted with the 

buyer ; 
(6 ) that this is a fair valuation of the goods which are unsold and I/ 

my principalA undurtake that [ /they will deliver to the bank 
mentioned below the foroign exchange /rupee proceede rosulting 
froin tho export of thogo goods on or beforet 


- Strike out 

Clause (A ) 
or (b ) 200 
applicable . 


(Name and addrons of the bank 
in India through whom payment 
is to be received . ) 


(Signature of exporter ) 


Date 


to 


Addrosa 


Note . - - (i ) All documents relnting to export of goods from India joust be passed through the 

modium of an authorised deulor in foreign oxohange in India . 
(ii) Soo page 2 of form for mothod of finance permittod , 
* This method of finance is not permissible for oxports to Afghanigtan . 
+ Give approximate date of dolivary whion must be within three months of orport , 


. 


NOTES TO EXPORTERS 


This E . P . Form Applies only to exports to Pakistan and Afghanistan. The methods by 
which payments for the exports may be received are statod below : 
For PAKISTAN : 
( 1 ) Pakistan rupoos . . 

. . . . . . Seo , 5 (a ) 
( 2 ) Indian rupees from the cocount of a bank in the Dompinion 

of Pakistan . . . . . . . . . Seo . ( O ) 
For AFGHANISTANI 

( 1) Indian rupeos from the account of a bank in Afghanistan . 8oo . 8 (6 ) 


Note - ( 1 ) Page I must bo oompleted and submitted to the Custom , in order to obtain pormimion 

to oxport the goods . Pages 3 und must also be oompleted in the game way 88 page 1 and 
handod over to tho authorised dealer in foreign exchange through whom tho bill in 
pogotiated 


PAM 11 - SIC . 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1984 


ur 


torm E , P , 


Doplioato copy together with 4 
copy of exporter s Inyoloe to be 
submitted to Reserve Band 
through an authorised dealer 
in foreign exchange . 


INDIA 


ExoHANGH CONTROL 


( Steamer / Country Craft 
Serial No. - . - .. 

Railway Booking Station -- - 
Shipping Bill No . and Dato - - - - - NAYE OF Alrway Company 
Railway Bill No . and Dato - - 

Owner of Barga 
Air Freight Receipt No , and Date - -- - -- - 

į Road Transport Company 
Rupos Value. — 

Place of Export 

Name of inland Customs barrior 
( This form has to be used onolumively for declaring e.cports from India to Pakistan and Afghanistan) 

1, Exporter s Namo 
2 . Country of destination of goods - - - - 

( In the case of exports to Pakistan state wheter East or West Pakistan 
3. Shorti dogcription and quantity of goods-- - 
4. Invoice value of goods 

RA 
(Shipping charge Railway freight . 

in urango eto ., if not inoludod in 
price ) . . 

R8. – – 
Total value . . . . . Rs. 
8 . Method by which payment is to be received in India . 
* (a ) Gouds invoiced in Pakistan rupees and prymont received through a 

bank in India by : 
Strike out 

(7 ) nogotiating or gonding for colleotion billa 
clauses not 

and / or documente drawn in Pakistan 
applicable . rupees . . 

. . 
( ii) Remittanoo in Pakistan rupoes , 
( ) Goode invoiced in Indian rupees and payment roceived through 

bauk in India by : 
(T ) negotiating or sending for colloption hillo 

and /or documents drawn in Indian rupuot - 
(ii) Remittanoo in Indian rupoor 


I heroby declare that I win the goller /oonigrior of the goods in respect of 
which this doclucution is made and that particulara given above are true, and 
( a ) that the invoice valuo declared in tho full value eu oontracted with tho 

buyer ; 
Striko out (h ) that this is a fair valuution of the goods which are unsold and I /my 
olauko ( ) Or 

principale undertake that I /thay will deliver to the bank montioned below 
(b ) got appli . 

the foreign exchango/ rupee procede resulting from the export of the 
cable . * * " goods on or beforot 


( Signature of exporter ) 


. 


(Name and address of the bank in 
India through whor payment is 
to bo received .) 
Date 

- 


Address 


Noto . — (0 ) All documents rolating to Oxport of goods from India munt be passed through the 

modiun of an authorisod denlor in foreign exchango in India . 
(11) Soo page 2 of form for mothod of finance permitted . 

This method of finance is not permissiblo for exports to Afghanistan . 
Hot Give approximate date of dolivory whioh must be within three months of apork 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 8, 1952 


[PART 1 - 


0 . 


Cortificate by authorised dealers in India through whom hills are negotiated or collected or through 

whom payment for goods is received 
We horohy cortify that tho goods have been exported ugainst outright unlo /on consignment 
bris and that we have negotiated hilly inceived bills / shipping documents for collection to 
the value of _ _ 

- -as declared under section (2 )/(6 ) and we undertake to see 
that proveeds are rcceived hy is on or before * 

- in a manner 
approved by the Exchange Control or that an explanation is furnished to tho Reserve Bank of 
India as to the reason for non -delivery , 


We hereby certify that the goods have been shipped against outright salc /on consignment 
beeis and that we have received 

in payment 
of the goods as declared under gection 5 (a )/ (? ). 


( Signature of authorised dealer ) 


Within three months. 


Dote 


NOTE : TO BANK 
1. Page : 3 and 4 should be submitted to the Reserve Bank of India together with a copy of 
whipper s invoice immediately after the authorixed dealer completes the certificate above . 

2 . On receipt of the proceeds of bills or of tho export under hection ( a ), or (b ), the authorised : 
dealer will forward to tho RoHorve Bank of Indir tho triplicato copy of this form with the appro 
priate certificate on tho roverse of the copy duly completed . In respoot of goods exported on 
consignment basis , the account Aales or other satisfactory documentary evidence in support of 
the proceeds actually realised should bo forwarded along with the triplicato copy of the form . 
In the event of the prooves not being received by the date statod , An explanation must be 
furniebed to the Reserve Bank of India quoting the number and date of this form 

8 . In the case of bill drawn and negotiated for only part of the invoice amount the triplicato 
copy of the form vhould be retuined by the authorised deuler until tho full proceeds of the ship 
mont have been received by him , except in cases whoro payment of the balance is being roceived 
by a different mothod , when separate E . P . Forms for the balance stating the method by whiob 
payment is being made should be completod by the exporter. 


Torm RP. 


Triplicato copy to be forwarded 
to the Reserve Bank through 
An authorized dealer in forolgo 
oxchange . 


INDIA 


EXORANGD CONTROL 


[ Steamer / Country Craft 
Serial No. By , A . 

Railway Booking Station - 
Bhipping Bill No. and Date - - - 

NAME OF Airway Company to 
Railway Bill No . and Date 

| Ownor of Barge 
Airfreight Receipt No , and Date 

( Road Transport Company 
Rapoo Valo 

Place of Export 

Name of inland Customs barrier 
This form to be used occlusively for declaring ewports from India to Pakistan and Afghanistan .) 

1. Exporter s Name 
2 . Country of d (ination of goods 

(In the case of exportg to Pekistan gtate whether East or West Pakistan ) 
3. Short description and quantity of goode 
Invoice value of goods , , 

RE. … . . . 
(Shipping charges /Railway freight, 
inguranoo eto , if not inoluded in price ) 
Total value . . 


RA . 


R8 


PART 11-- Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3 , 1952 





788 


Strike ont 
lauses not 
applicable . 


8 . Method by which payment is to be roocived in India . 
* (a ) Goods invoiced in Pakistan Rupeos and payment roooived through 

A bank in India by : 
(1 ) negotiating or sending for colleotiong bills 

and / or doouments drawn in Pakistani 

Rupoos 
( ii ) Remittance in Pakistani Rupees , 
(b ) Goods invoiced in Indian Rupees and payment received through a bank 

in India byt 
(1) negotiating or sending for collection bille 

and / or dooumento drawn in Indian Rupeos 
( 12) Remittances in Indian Rupees , . 


I hereby declare that I am the seller /consignor of tho goods in respoct of 
which this declaration is mado and that particulare given above are true , and 

( 2 ) that the invoice valờo doclared in the full value as contracted with the 

huyer . 
Strike out (b ) thet this is a fuir valuution of the goods which are unbold and I /my 
Claugr ( a ) or 

principals undertook that I / thoy will deliver to the bank mentioned 
(b ) not appli 

holow the foreign exchanges /rupees proceede resulting from tho export 
cable . 

of theRo goods on or beforet 


( Namo and address of the bank in 
India through whom payment is 
to be receiver .) 


(Signature of Etporter ) 


Dato 


Address 


Note. - (1 ) All documents relating to export of goods from India must be passed through the 

medium of an authorifel deuler in foreign exchange in India , 
( ii ) Soo Page 2 of form for method of financo permitted . 
* This method of finance is not permissible for exports to Afghanisten . 
† Give approximate dato of delivery which must bo within three months of export . 


Certificate hy authorised dealer in foreign prchange in India receiving full 
Strik put I rureeds of shipmenty by method ( a ) or (b ) of Section 5 . 
Seation Dot Section 6 ( a ) 
applicable . We confirm that 

- - -WOro received by ab 
(State the valuo in J akistani Rupees ), 
on - 

- 

(Date ) 
( 1 ) hy credit (s ) to our Account with our agent in Pakistan , 

(ii) by u druft or T . T . 
Section 6 (6 ). 
We confirm that RA - - - - 

- - - were reocivod by us 

(Stato the value in Indian Rup ( 8 .) 
on - - 

by a transfer from the rupee Arrowit 
Indin of a bunk in -- - - - 

State the wa of the country .) 


Dates 


- 


(Signature of authorised dealer ), 


Form E . P . 1 . 


Criginal copy to fulmitted to Custom 


INDTA 


Serial No . - - 
Shipping Bill No. and Date 
Railwav bill No , azil Data - - - 
Airfreiyht Receipit. No. and Duti 


EXCHANCE CONTROL 

Stecher Country Craft Store 

| Boulway Rocking Station - - 
-- - . NAME OF Airway Company - - -- - - 

| Gwner of Raige - - 
( Road Transport Company - - - - 


Rupee value , 


Place of export 
Name of inland Customs barrier - - - -- 


- - 


34 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY- 3 , 1952 


[ PART II — Sec. 3 


-HIT 


Declaration required from emporter before ceporling ponds to Pakistan and Afhenistan , 
] Exportor name - - 
2 . country of destination of goodly - - 

( In the enge of rm porta to Pukiytan state whether Elst or lost. Takistan ). 
3 . Short encription and quantity of goult . 
4 , Invoiva vnlue of goods ( tuting currency ) 

(Shipping c !iaryum , insur uno etc . if rut included in price ). 


Total 


Melhod by which 


meat is to be relised : 


Wo bomby delitru that the invoice vulun brain stated repraga t li , l ull asport us of 
the zools and that the engint will hi liqp . eduf in a onir un vit ii l #1 prario i peuition by 
the Reserve Bank , 


( Signaturo of Exporter ) 
*ETJ. Licence Nn - - - - - - Dite -- - - 
Address 


Date 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


* Volm , — This form can only be 17944 under aperial luonna fronti Rapprve B :unk . 


Form E . P . 1 , 


Duplicate copy to be forwarded to the R39314 Bank . 
INDIA 


IXON 4NM CONTROL 


Seriul N0, - — 
Shipping Bill No . Anrl Dute - - - - - - 
Railway Bill No. und Dato 
Airfroiglit Roceipt No . und Dato 


rStenmarcantry draft . - — 

Railway Hiking Station - - - 
NAME OF Airwuy onpany - - - - -- - - 

Owner of Burge - - - - - 
loud Transport Company - - - 


- 


- 


Rupee V + lu 


- - 


- - - - 


- - - - - - 


Plavo of report - - 
Name of jalandi Customs barrior 


Declaration required from aportar borfore reporting yon:by in Pakistan and Afghanistan 

1. Exporter s name . 
2. Country of daytination of goodit 

( In thn maye ol vixquorty to Pakistan gtate whether East or Wont Pakistan ) . 
3 . Short rescription und quantity of woode . 
1 . Juvoice value of goods (Atatuig uurrency ) 

( Sluipping colourney, insurunen etc . if not included in price ) 


Total 


Method bow which panel is to be spillised : 


WA heraly Laroliur n that the invoice value heroin atated rapresonte the f:ill export value of 
thin gools and that tho itmount will be disposal of ju se manner and within a period upocifion by 
the Rimova Hok. 


" E . P . I . Lironce No. - - 
Address-- 


( Signature of Exporter ). 
- Date - 


Dato - - - - 


Nutr .- -- This form can only be used under Apecial licence from tho Rouarve Bank . 


ART II-- Sec. 3) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1952 


738 


orm E . P . 1 


Tripilcate copy to be forwarded to the R99erve Bank. 
INDIA 


EXORANGE CONTROL 


rial No . -- -- 

ning Bill No, and Date 
il w11.9 Bill No. und Date 
ifroight. Receipt No . in Data 


Sicanier Country Craft - - 

Railway Booking Station - - - - 
NAJCF OF Airwuy Company 

Ownor of Barge - . - - 
Rond Trunuport Company , 


upee valita 


Place of oxport 


Name of ioland Customs harrier - - 
claration required from crportmy brfore crparling gools to Pirkiston mid Afyhrenistan . 


1, Exporter s naine 
2 . Country of destination of goods 

( In the case of ovdarth to Poliglan stato whether Erst or West Pakistan ) . 
9 . Slort description and quantity of goods. 
4 . Invoico value of goods (stating currency) 

(Shipping charges, insuranco otr . if not incluclod in prioe.) 


Tota ) 


othod by irrirhe jument is to be replined : 


We hereby declaro that the invoice value horein atnted repregent , the full export value of 
gooila and that tho unannt wiil be disposorl of in a nannor and within a period racined 
the Reserve Bank , 


(Signature of Exporter) 


- DATA 


* E . P .J, LIQANCO No. - - - 
Alclregg 


- 


was received by us on 


I/We conurin that 

(State curronoy and amount received .) 
(;) by credit to our account with our Agenta in 
( ii ) by a banker s draft or T. T . 

(Banker s payment Advicu should ho attached ) 


( Signature of Exporter).. 


* Nole, - - This form can only be used under special licence from the Reserve Bank , 


COPIES OF THE P . P . FORM SHOULD NOT BE PASTED ON THE PARCEL 


y original copy should be forwarded to the nearest office of the Reseme Bank of Indin by the Pony 

office through which the goods home been deputched 


n P . P . 


Original oopy to be submitted by the 
exporter to the Post 00 Alter 
being countersigned by an Authorised 

doulor in foreign exolange. 
EXCHANGE CONTROL 

Parool Receipt No. - - - 
Namo of Post Office 


Nowy 


736 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1952 


[ PART II - SEC . $ 


( Declaration required from exporter before sending goods by parcel post to certain countries ou tori 

India ) 
1. Namo and addren of oxporter 


2. Namo and addrose of consignoo 


8 . Short description and quantity of goods 
4 . Involoe value of goods stating ourronoy 

I hereby declare that I am the seller /oonsignor of the goods in respeot of 

this doolaration is made and that the particulars given above are true and 
† Striko out (1) of (a ) (i) that the invoioe value declared to the full export value of the 
or (i ) which 

goods ; 
ever is not (ii ) that this is a fair valuation of the goods which are unsold : 
applicable . ( b ) that I undertake to deliver to the bank mentioned below the foreigr 

exchange /rupeo proceede resulting from the export of these goode on o 
• Give approxi. boforet 

- in a mannos prescribed by the Reserve 
Dato dato of 

Bank of India , 
dollvery which 
must be within 
6 months of 
# xport . 


( Signaturo of Exporters). 


Date 


(Name and address of bank in India through 
whom payment is to be received ), 
Countorsignature of Bank 

mentioned above. 


Note .-- 17 ) All documents relating to exports of goods from Indja must ho passed through the 

medium of an authorised dealer in foreign exchange , 
( it ) All details of this form must be correctly complotod . 


COPIES OF THE P . P . FORM SHOULD NOT BE PASTED ON THE PARCEL 
Pom P . P . 

Daplicato copy to be submitted to the 

Reserve Bank through an authorised 

dealor in foreign exchange. 

EXOHANGE CONTROL 
Berlal No, 

Paroel Receipt No. 
Name of Post Office 
(Declaration required from exporter before sending goods by parcel post to certain countries outside 

India ) 
1. Name and address of exporter 


. 


2. Nome and address of consignee 


3 . Short doscription and quantity of goods 
4 . Invoioe value of goods stating currency 

I hereby declaro that I am tho seller /consignor of the goods in respect of which this 
deolaration is made and that the partioulars given above are true and 
18trike out (1) ( a ) (i) that the invoico value declared ie tło full export value of te goods 
or (il) whichever 
18 not applloable 

( ii) that this is a fair valuation of tho goods which are ungold : 


PART II 


c. 1 


. 


11 


7 


il . . . 


, M . 


S 


i 


! ! 


. . . . ., 


* Give appro - (0 ) that I undertake to dellver to the bank mentionod below the forelga osohango 

mato dato rupee produoda resulting from the export of those good . on or before 
of delivery in a mander presoribed by tho Reserve Bank of India , 
which must be 
within 0 months 
of export , 


( Bignature of Exporter ). 


Dato 


Name and address of bank in India through 
whom payment is to be received ) 


We horoby certify that we have nogotiated /rooolved for collection bills and dooumontw for 

- - in roapoot of the above goods sont by parool pogt . 
(Amount ) 


(Signature of authorisod dealer ) 


Noto . - (0) All documento relating to exports of goods from India must be passed through the 

medium of an authorized douler in foreign exchange . 
( ii) All details of this form must be corroctly oomploted . 


COPIES OF THE P . P . FORM SHOULD NOT BE PASTED ON THE PARCEL 
Form P . P . 

Triplioato copy to be submitted to the 
Roservo Bank through an authorised 

dealor in foreign exchange . 
EXCHANGE CONTROL 


Sortal No. - - 

Parcel Receipt No. 
Name of Post Ofico 
( Declaration required from exporter before sending goods by parcel post to certain countries outsida 

India ) 
1 . Name and address of exportor 


2 . Name and address of consignoo -- 


3 . Sbort description and quantity of goods 
4 . Invoice value of goods stating ourronoy 

I hereby declare that I am the seller /consignor of the goods in roapeot of whioh this deolo 
tion is made and that the particulars given abovo Bro truo and 

Strike out (a ) (i) that the involce value declared in the full export value of the goode; 
( ) OT (i ) which 
over is not 
applicable . 

( ii ) that this is a fair valuation of the goods which are unsold ; 
Give approxi. (6 ) that I undertake to doliver to the bank mentioned below tho foreign 
mate date of exchange/ rupoe proceede resulting from the export of the goods on or 
delivery which before me 

- in a manner presoribed by the Ragerve Bank of India . 
must be within 
6 months of 
oxport , 


(Signature of Exporter ). 


Dato 


(Name and address of bank in India through 

whom paymont is to be received ) . 


738 - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1952 


[PART I - SEC. 9 


Certificate by bank through whoin payment is received : 
Strike out $( A ) We confirm that 

--Was received by as 
( A ) or ( B ) 

( ntate ourenoy and amount received ) 
whichever one 

- from 
pot appli . 

(nume of country from which payment was receiver 


S( B ) W a confirm that the documentary evidence of the return of the goods to Indiu hom 
been seen by us. 


Address 


(Signature of authorised dealer ) 


Note.com (i ) All documents relating to exports of goods from India muut be pabod through the 

medium of an authorised dealer in foreign exchange , 
( ii) All details of this form must be correctly completed . 


SECOND SCHEDULE 


Name of countries 


Approved melhords of finance 


A . The Belgian Monetary Area 

( a ) The currenoy of the country of im port 
Canada 

or of any other country in the monetary 
Egypt (including Gaza Strip ) The French Franc Elrea . 

qu en ( excluding the French possessione in 

Indja ). 
The French Somali Coast 

(6 ) Sterling from the account of a resident io 
The Portuguese Monetary Area ( excluding the country of import or of any other 
tho Portuguese Poesemgions in India ) 

country in the samo monetary area 
Switzerland and Liechtenstein 

(c ) Rupees from the account of a bank in 
The Dutch Monetary Area (exoluding the tho country of import or of any other 

Republic of Indonesia and Dutch New country in the same monetary Area . 

Guinon ) 
Denmark ( including Faroe Islands ) and 

Greenland 
Norway 
Sweden . 


B . O .S .A , and any torritories fuder the sovereignty (a ) 0 .8 . dollara. 
of the U . S . A . 

(6 ) Sterling from the account of a regident 

in any country in the group . 
Philippine Islands 

(0) Rupees from tho aocount of a bank 
Bolivia 

the group . 
Columbia 
Costa Rica 
Cuba 
Dominican Republio 
Boador 
Guatemala 
Haiti 
Honduras 
Mexico 
Nicaragua 
Panama 
Salvador 

Vepezuela , 
0 . The Schedulod Territorios 1. e. The British (u ) Sterling or any sterling aroa ourTonoy 
Commonwealth ( except Canada ) 

other than Indian and Pakistan rupood 
The Irish Republio 

from the account of a rosident in any 
British Trust Territories 

country in this group other than India 
British Protectorates and Protected States and Pakistan, 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3 , 1952 


739 


- 


- - 


- - 


Buma 
Iruq 


(6 ) Rupeas from tho account of u hanb in 

any country in this group otlier than 
loeland 

India and Pakistan , 
The Hayhemite Kingilum of the Jordan 

Libya . 
Note. - Payment fur oxport to Pakiytan inay only be received in Pakistan rupech or in Indian 

rupees from the account of a bunk in the country of import . 
D . AU countries not mentioned in Groupe A , B (w ) Sterling from the account of a resident 
and C abovo. 

in the country of import . 
(6 ) Rupees from the account of a bank in 
the country of import, 

(No. 0 ( 8 )-EF ,II /52 .] 
S . R . O . 767, - in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 12 
of the Foreign Exchange Régulation Act , 1947 ( VII of 1947 ), the Central Govern 
ment hereby directs that the following amendment shall be made in the notification 
of the Government of India in the late Finance Department No . 12 ( 17 ) - F .1 ./ 47, 
dated the 4th August , 1917 , namely ! — 

Amendment 
In the said notification for the words " is furnished by the exporter .. .. . .. . . . 
within a period specified by the Reserve Bank " , the following words shall be substi 
tuted , namely : 
" supported by such evidence as may be prescribed is furnished by tho 

exporter to the prescribed authority that the amount representing the 
full export value of the goods has been , or will, within the prescribed 
period be , paid in the prescribed manner ." 

[No. 6 ( 8 )-EF .II / 52 . ] 
S . R . O . 168. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 12 
of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (VII of 1947), the Central Govern 
ment hereby directs that the following amendment shull be made in the notification 
of the Government uť India in the late Finance Department No. 12 ( 18 ) - F . I. / 47 , 
dated the 4th August, 1977 , namely : 

Amendment 
In the said notification for the words " is furnished by the exporter ... . . 
within a period specified by the Reserve Bank " , the following words shall be substi 
tuted , namely : 
" supported by such cvidence a s may be prescribed is furnished by the 

exporter to the prescribed authority that the amount representing the 
full export value of the goods has been , or will , within the prescribed 
period be , paid in the prescribed manner." 

[ No . 6 (8 )- EF .II / 52. 3 
S . S . SHIRALKAR , Dy. Secy . 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 

Central Office 

Bombay , the 26th April, 1952 
S . R . O . 769. - In pursuanco of rule 3 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Rules 
1952 , the Reserve Bank hereby specifies that the forms in the First Schedule to 
the said Rules and set out in column 1 below , shall be used for the purposes of 
declaring the exports speciflcd against cach in column 2 below : 


Column 1 

Form 


Column 2 
Purpose 


1. Form 


G . R . 1 


To be used for declaring shipments to all countries other than 
those specified in Schedule annexed to the notification of 
the Government of India in the late Finance Department 
No . 12 ( 17 ) F1/47, dated the 4th August 1947 except Japan , 
Iran , Pakistan and Afghanistan , where payment is ręcely 
ed In India by onc of the methods specified in the second 
schedule annexed to the above -mentioned Rules . 


" 111 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1962 


[ PART II — Src . 3 


Column 1 

Form 


Column 2 
Purpose 


2. Form G . R . 2 


3 . Form G .R . 3 


4 . Form G .R . X 


To be used for declaring shipments to countries outside the 
sterling area where such shipments are financed under 
guarantee given by the United Kingdom agents of the ex 
porters to the Bank of England to deliver to it the appro 
priate foreign currency or to obtain payment in sterling 
from an appropriate sterling non - resident accouat in the 
United Kingdom . 
To be used for declaring exports to the scheduled territories 
( sterling area ) by shippers who under special arrangements 
made with the Reserve Bank of India are permitted to 
retain the proceeds of their exports to the scheduled terri 
tories with agents or branches in the United Kingdom or 
other sterling area countries and to utilise those proceeds to 
finance their imports into India from any sterling area 
country or to make other approved types of payments in 
such countries . 
To be used for declaring exports to Japan and Iran to which 
countries shipment is only permitted to be made subject to 
full payment being received in India in advance from the 
consignee abroad or under a confirmed irrevocable credit 
opened by the consignee in favour of the exporter . 
To be used for declaring exports to Pakistan or Afghanistan 
where payment is received by one of the methods specified 
in the note to item ( C ) of the Second Schedule annexed to 
the abovementioned Rules. 
To be used for declaring exports to Pakistan and Afghanistan 
by exporters who under special arrangements made with 
the Reserve Bank of India are permitted to retain the pro 
ceeds of their exports to those countries and to utilise them 
for payment of imports from those countries into India . 
To be used for declaring exports by post parcel to all coun 
tries other than those specified in the Schedule annexed to 
the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Finance Department No. 12 ( 18 ) -FI /47, dated the 4th August , 
1947. 


5 . Form 


E .P . 


6. Form E .P . 1 


7 . Form P .P . 


[No. F . E .R .A . 111 /52- R . B . ) 
B . RAMA RAU , Governor , 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION ) 


STAMPS 


New Delhi, the 23rd April 1952 


S . R . O 70 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of section 9 of 
the Indian Stamp Act , 1899 ( II of 1899 ) , the Central Government hereby remite 
retrospectively the stamp duly charged on the perpetual lease deed , dated the 
31st March 1952 , executed in favour of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Govern 
ment of Japan , in respect of a plot of land measuring 5 . 99 acres in the area known 
as Diplomatic Enclave in New Delhi. 

[No. 3.) 


CUSTOMS 


New Delhi, the 23rd April 1952 
S . R . O . 771. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea Cus 
toms Act , 1878 (VIII of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby exempts Aquarium 
fish , falling under item 3 of the First Schedule to the Indian Tariff Act, 1934. 


PART 1 - 


9 


THE GAZETTE OT INDIA , MAY 


1983** ** * ! ; 


(XXXII of 1934 ), imported into India , from the payment of whole of the customs 
duty leviable thereon . 

[No . 41. ) 


New Delhi, the 3rd May 1952 
S . R . O . 772 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the Sea Customs 
Act , 1878 (VIII of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby rescinds notiications 
Nos, 60 , 61 and 62 -Customs, dated the 24th July 1951. 

[No. 2 -) 
D . P . ANAND , Dy. Secy . 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

INCOME - TAX 

New Delhi, the 28th April 1952 
$ .R . O . 773. — The following draft of certain further amendments to the Indian 
Income-tax Rules , 1922, which the Central Board of Revenue proposes to make la 
exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 59 of the Indian 
Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922 ) , is published as required by sub -section ( 1 ) 
of the said section , for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby 
and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on 
or after the 24th May , 1952. 

2 . Any objection or suggestion which may be recelved from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the said 
Board . 


Draft Amendments 
" In the said Rules 
( 1) In rule 2 – 
(i) for clauses (a ), (b ), ( c), (d ) and ( e ), the following shall be substituted , 

namely : 
" ( a ) where the firm is not registered under the Indian Partnership Act, 

1932 ( IX of 1932 ) , and is being registered for the Arst time under the 
Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922 ), within a period of three 

months of the constitution of the firm ; 
(b ) where the firm is registered under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 

( IX of 1932 ), before the end of the previous year in relation to the 

frm ; and 
( c ) where the registration of the firm under the Indian Income- tax , 1922 

(XI of 1922 ), is being renewed for any year under rule 6 , before the 

30th day for June of that year. 
Provided that the Income tax Officer may entertain an application mado 

after the expiry of the time specified in clause ( a ) , ( b ) or ( c ), if he i. 
satisfied that the firm was prevented by sufficient cause from making 

The application within the specified time." 
(it) in the existing proviso , after the word provided the word further 

shall be inserted . 
2 . In rule 6 , the words, letters, brackets and figures beginning with " The 
application and ending with the word and figure " Rule 2 " shall be omitted . 

[No. 25 . 7 
S . P , LAHIRI, Secy . 


INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 28th April 1952 
S . R . O . 774 . - In pursuance of sub -section (4 ) of section 5 of the Indian 
Income-tax Act , 1922 (XI of 1922 ), the Central Board of Revenue directs that the 


742 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3 , 1952 


[ PART II - Sec. 3 


following further amendments shall be made in the Schedule appendied to its 
notification No . 32 - Income- tax , dated the 9th November , 1946 , namely 

1 . In the said Schedule under the sub -head I -Madras for the existing Ranges 
and Income-tax Circles, the following Ranges and Income-tax Circles shall be 
substituted , namely : 
Vijyawada Range. 

1 . Vizianagaram . 
2 . Vishakapainam , 
3 . Coconada . 
4 . Rajahmundry . 
5 . Ellore. 
6 . Vasulipatam . 
7 . Vijayawada . 
8. Special Survey Circle 

No. 1, Vijayawada . 
Madras B Rarge . 

1. Madras City Circle [ li. 
2 . Madras Hindi Cirrle . 
3 . Madras ( Special North ) . 
4 . Erode. 
5 . Madras Special Circle . 
6 . Special Survey Circlo 
No . II. Madras . 

7. Kacheepuram . 
8 . Cuddalore. 
9 . Nagapattinam . 
10 . Tanjore, 

11. Chittoor. 
Tiruchirapallı Range . 

1 . Tiruchirapalli, 
2 . Karaikudi. 

3. Pudukottai. 
Madhurat Range . 

1 . Madhurai, 
2 . Marihurai (Special) Circle , 
3 . Virudhunagar. 
4 . Tirunelvell . 
5 . Tuticorin . 
6 . Dindigul. 

7. Special Survey Circle 

No. III, Madhurai, 
Madras A Range. 

1. Madras City Circle I. 
2 . Madras City Circle IV . 
3. Madras Salarles Circle. 
4. Madras ( Special) Central. 
5 . Vellorc 

6 . Salem . 
Madras C Range. 

1 . Mladras (Special) South , 
2 . Nadras (Special) East, 
3. Madras City Circle II. 


PART II - SEC, 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3 , 1952 


745 


- 


- - 


4 . Nellore. 
5 . Bapatla . 
6 . Tenali. 
7. Guntur. 

8 . Cuddapah . 
Coimbatore Ruge . 

1 . Coimbatore . 
2 . Coinibatore ( Special) Circle. 
3 . Ootacamund . 
4 . Palghat . 
5 . Calicut. 
6 . Mangalore. 
7. Special Survey Circle No. IV , Coimbature , 

2 . In the said Schedule under the sub -head X -Mysore , Travancore . Cochin and 
Coorg against Bangalure Range, the following entries shall be added : 

11 . Kurnooi. 
12. Bellary. 
13 . Anantapur. 

3 . Where an Inconie -tax Circle stands transferred by this notification from one 
Range to another Range, appeals arising out of assessments made in that Income 
tax Circle and pending immediately before the date of this notifcation before 
the Appellate Assistant Commissioner of the Range from whom that Income- tax 
Circle is transferred shall on and from the date of this notlAcation be transferred 
to and dealt with by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner of the Range to whom 
the said Circle is transferred . 

[ No . 26 .) 
K . B . DEB , Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

· New Delhi, the 23rd April 1952 
S .R . O . 775 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clausc ( b ) of section 4 of 
the Essential Supplies ( Temporary Powers ) Act , 1946 (XXIV of 1946 ), the Central 
Government is pleased to direct that the power to make orders under clause ( d ) 
of sub -section ( 3 ) of section 3 of the said Act shall, in relation to the use of iron 
and steel in the construction of buildings , De exercisable also by the Government 
of Hyderabad . 

[No. SÇ ( A )- 4 ( 20 ). ] 
New Delhi, the 28th April 1952 
S . R . O . 776 . - The following General Order issued by the Iron and Steel 
Controller under the proviso to sub - clause ( 1 ) of Clause 3 of the Iron and Steel 
(Control of Production and Distributlon ) Order , 1941, is hereby published for 
general information 


" In etetrise of the powers conferred on me under the proviso to sub 

rolause ( 1 ) of Clause 3 of the Iron and Steel (Control of Production 
and Distribution ) Order , 1941, I hereby direct that the following 
amendment shall be made in my General Order issued vide the 
Ministry of Comincrce and Industry Notification No. SC ( A ) -4 (66 ) , 

dated the 5th March , 1952 , namely : 
In the Second Schedule annexed to the said General Order , the following 

entry shall be added to the entries relating to Punjab ( I ), namely : - 
* 14 . S . Santokh Singh 

Butari (Distt. Amritsar ). 
Gurmukh Singh Steel. 
Rolling Mills . 
( Sd .) M . K . Powvala , Iron and Stec ] Controller." 

[ NO. SC (A ) -4 (66.) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 9, 1952 


[PART II- Stc. a 


S . R . O . 777.-- Corrigendum . In the Notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, No. S . R . O . 1652, dated the 23rd October , 
. 1951 , published in Part II -- Sec . 3 of the Gazette of India , dated the 27th October , 
- 1951 

( i) In the fourth column of the table under entry C . 3. ( a ) Angles 

( a ) for " 1 / 8 " read " 1 / 8 " " , 
( b ) for " 42 / 12 / -" read " 48 /112 / 2" ; 
(ii) Under entry D .5. (1)- Extra for thickness 

for " 1 -5 / 1 " " tead " 1 -5 / 8 " " ; 
( iii ) Against entry F . 5. 

for " Base Price Item No." read " Base Price Item No . 9 " ; 
(iv ) Against entry T .1. (0 ) ( vi) 

for " ecification " read " Specification " ; 
(v ) Under entry T .1. ( r ) 
for " Copper upto 5 per cent” read " Copper upto 35 per cent." . 

[No. SC ( A ) -2 ( 71) /51. ), 
D . HEJMADI, Under Secy . 


TEA CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 20th April 1952 
S . R . O , 718. - In pursuance of section 13 of the Indian Tea Control Act, 1938 
( VIII of 1938 ) , the Central Government, after consulting the Indian Tea Licensing 
Committee and paying due regard to all interests concerned , is pleased to declare 
that the Indian export allotment of tea for the Anancial year 1952- 53 shall be 452 , 
720 , 021 pounds avoirdupois , being one hundred and thirty per cent of India s stan 
dard export figure. 

[No. 44 (1 ) Tea (Plant) / 52. ), 


New Delhi, the 30th April 1952 
S . R . O , 779, - The following amendment to bye- law 11 of the Indian Tca Control 
Act Bye-laws, 1938 , which has been made by the Indian Tea Licensing Committee 
in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 6 of the Indian 
Tea Control Act , 1938 (VIII of 1938 ) , and with the previous sanction of the Central 
Government as required by sub - section ( 2 ) of the said section is hereby published 
. for general information : 

For bye -law 11, the following bye-law shall be substituted , namely : 

" 11. ( 1 ) Members of the Committee shall be entitled to travelling and daily 
allowances for journeys undertaken by them for attending the meetings of tho 
Coinmittee or of a Sub -Committee or such other business of the Committee As 
may be entrusted to them from time to time, at the rates admissible to Govern 
ment servants of the 1st class under the rules made by the Central Government 
.. In this behalf and in force for the time being , 

( 2 ) No travelling allowance or daily allowance shall be allowed to a member 
unless he certifles that he has not drawn any travelling or daily allowance from 
any other public or Government source in respect of the journey and halt for 
· which the claim is made. 

( 3 ) Travelling allowance shall be payable for journey from the usual place of 
residence of the member of the Committee to the place of the mceting or the 
place where he has gone to attend to any business of the Committee and back : 

Provided that when the journey commences from or the return journey termt 
nates in any other place , the travelling allowance shall be limited to the amount 
that would have been payable had the journey commenced from or torminated 
in the usual place of residence , or to the amount payable in respect of the actual 
journcy undertaken , whichever is less : 

Provided further that in special circumstances and subject to the previous 
approval of the Central Government, the Chairman may grant travelling allowance 
for journey from places other than the usual place of residence of a member . 


PART II - SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1952 


740 . 


( 4 ) No conveyance allowance for attending meetings shall be paid to those 
members of the Committee who draw travelling or daily allowances : 

Provided that a member who is resident at the place where the meeting of 
the Committee or a Sub -Committee is held may be paid the actual expenditure 
incurred on conveyance by him , subject to a maximum of Rs. 10 per day " . 

[No, 201( 7) - Tea (Plant) /51. ] 

N . V . RAO , Dy. Secy.. 


New Delhi, the 3rd May 1952 
S . R . O . 780 . In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Supplies ( Temporary Fowers ) Act , 1946 (XXIV of 1946 ), the Central Government 
hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be made in the Cotton 
Textiles (Control) Order , 1948 , namely : 
In clause 28 of the said Order 
( a ) in sub -clause ( 3 ) for the words " stock of cloth exceeding the total 

quantity of cloth " the words " stocks of cloth or yarn exceeding the 
i total quantity of cloth or yarn , as the case may be shall be substituted ; 
(b ) in sub -clause (4A ) for the word " producer " the word " manufacturer " 
shall be substituted . 

[No. 9 ( 4) -CT ( A ) / 52 -8 .] 
S . A . TECKCHANDANI, Under Secy . 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 22nd April 1952 
S . R . O . 781.- - In exercisç of the powers conferred by section 4 of the 
Supply and prices of Goods Act, 1950) (LXX of 1950 ) , and in partial modification , 
of the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry oť Industry 
and Supply No. S . R . O . 503, dated the 2nd September, 1950, in so far as it relates 
to the Axation of maximuin price of Soda Ash imported from the United States 
of America, the Central Government hereby fixes the maximum price as shown 
in the Schedule annexed hereto in respect of 727. 94 cwts . of Soda Ash imported 
per s. . . " Steel Director" during the month of January 1952 by the Progressive 
Trading Co ., 50 Essaji Street, Bombay 3 . 

SCHEDULE 


2 


Variety of 
goda Ash . 


Maximum prica 
that may 10 
charged hytlo 

importer . 


Maximum prico 
thint may bo 
charied by A 
distributor, 


Maximum prico 
that may be 
Charged by A 
wholesalo den 

ler. 


maximum prica 
that may be 
charged by a 
retail deali r . 


Soda agh , RA. 25 - 3 - 0 per 

cwt, Ex - gourwn / 
F . O . R . Build 
bry . 


The price Apcoi . 

flerf in Coluun 
3 PLUS & mar 
gin not exceed - 
ing annna eight 
per cwt. 


Tho price speci 

Geci in Colun 
4 PLUS & mar 
gin not incendi 
ing Rs. 1 . 12 -0) 
por cwt. 


The price speci. 
fiad in Column 

2 PLUS 
(1 ) telual rail . 

buy frciglat by 
grods trun oi 
Actual transport 
charies by AOIL 
from Bombay 
to th place of 

doştination , and 
(1 ) Iundling 

charges not ex . 
cording Annas 
eighl per cwt. 


Note. — These prices arc cxclusive of local taxes such as Sales Tax , Octroi ang 
other local taxes which may be charged extra . 

[No. PC -7 (12 / 52.] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1952 [ Part II — Sec. 3 
S S = - = - = - - = - = 

New Delhi, the 29th April 1952 
S . R . O . 78 :7. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section of the Supply 
and Prices oť Goods Act, 1950 (LXX of 1950 ), and in partial modification of the 
rotilisation of the Govitoment of India in the late Ministry of Industry and 
Supply NO . S . R . O . 503 , dater the end Scuteinier 1950), in so far as it relates to the 
fixation of maxiniumi price of Caustic Soria (Flake ) imported from the United 
Kingdom , the Central Government hereby fixes the following Schedule of maxi 
rrum prices of the said variety of Caustic Soda . 

SCHEDULE 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Jinxiinun paxium priro thenit lfaximun Marimun prioo 
"Varinty of (* 14. price that nov 11 rue llyst. Prire that may that may ha 
tio Sora MODUIT list ihnior 

DA CLA14417 by clired by a 
harvel toy 

a wholmenle lotail iflor 
in importer 

de las 
in Artnin 
perilir burn 
Toinen 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - 


Cauntio Soula Boinbay To prico sprcition in 

( Flake ) Rp. 4 - 2 - 11 per noluinn PLUS 
3 cwt. druna ( wt. F , 0 , N . (1 ) Actual railway fors . 
imported froin ( outta 

yht by foods train or 
U . K .) 

RA + 1 . 14 . 1 per actual transport chary 
( W . H . 0 , R . ( by Salt from any of 

tlle localities spectad 
Macra 

in Colunun ? to the place 
Rs . 41 - 14 -1) por of dogtination , onu • 
( wt, f . 1) , R . (6 ) hunding cliürgen not 

( Xouring MAH night 
por cwt, 


the price Npcoj. 

fiec in nuluna 
3 PLUS11111111 
win not exceed 
ngw as viuht 
per cut, 


The price spoci 
find in column 
4 PLUS umur . 
vin not uxcoed . 
ins Rp. 1 - 12 - 0 
por cwt. 


- 

- . - - - - - - — — - - - - - - 
NOTE , — These prices are exclusive of local taxes , such as Sales Tax , Octroi and 
- ther local taxes which may be charged extra . 

[No. PC - 7 (8 ) / 50 .) 
P . S . SUNDARAM , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

( Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 24th April 1952 
S . R . O . 783.- - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b ) of section 2 of 
he Indian Central Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 ( IX of 1946 ) , and in supersession 
of the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Food and Agri 
ulture No. F . 35 - 13 / 49- Com . II, dated the 11th August , 1951 , the Central Govern 
nent hereby appoints he following Officers As Collectors for the areas mentioned 
gainst them : 
1 ) Officers of Customs appointed Within their respective jurisdictions. 

under the Sea Customs Act, 1878 . 
2 ) The Deputy Collector of Central The districts of Banaskantha , Sabar 
Excise , Baroda . 

kantha . Mehsana , Baroda, Dangs , 
Ahmedabad , Kaira , Panch -Mahals , 
Broach , and Surat in the State of 

Bombay . 
3 ) The Collector of Central Excise , The ristricts of the State of Bombay 
Bombay . 

other than those specified in ( 2 ) 
and excluding Amreli and the 
States of Bhopal and Madhya 
Pradesh , 


- PART II - SEC 89 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1957 


The States of Madras, Coorg and 

Travancore -Cochin . 
The States of West Bengal and Orissa . 


( 4 ) The Collector of Central Excise, 

Madras. 
(5 ) The Collector of Central Excise, 

Calcutta . 
(6 ) The Collector of Central Excise , 

Allahabad . 
( 7) The Collector of Central Excise, 

Shillong . 
( 8 ) The Collector of Central Excise, 

Delhi. 


The States of Uttar Pradesh and 

Vindhya Pradesh , 
Thc States of Assam , Tripura and 

variipur , . 
The States of Punjab , Delhi, Ajmer, 

Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh , 
Patiala and East Punjab States 
Union , Madhya Bharat and 

Rajasthan 
The States of Kutch and Saurashtra 

and the Amreli district of the 

State of Bombay. 
The States of Hyderabad and Mysore . 


» The Collector of Central Excise , 

Jamnagar. 


( 10 ) The Collector of Central Excisc , 

Hyderabad . 
( 11 ) The Deputy Collector in - charge . 

Central Excise , Patna , 


The State of Bihar , 


[ No. F . 35 - 13 , 49 - Com . II .] 
S . K . MIRCHANDANI, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 26th April 1952 
S . R . O . 799, - The following draft of certain further amendments to the Sann 
Hemp Grading and Marking Rules, 1942, which it is proposed to make in exercise 
of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Agricultural Producc (Grading and 
Marking ) Act , 1937 ( I of 1937), is published as required by the said section for 
the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby 
given that the draft will le taken into consideration on or after the 1st June, 1952 . 

Any objections or suggestions which inay he received from any person in res 
pect of the S2114 craft before the date specified will be considered by the Central 
Government: 

Draft Amendments 
In the said Rules, 

1. In rule 7 for the word and figures Schedule XI the word and Agurc " Schedule 
X ” shall be substituted . 
2 . In part A of Schedule VI-- 
( a ) after entries under the sub -heading “ ( iv ) CALCUTTA QUALITY ” the 

following sub -heading and entries shall be inserted , namely : 
" ( v ) Dohod Quality 


Special Characteristics 


Grade Devimutinng 


Colour of Abre 


Average 
longth of 

hunka * * 
(minimum ) 


General 
Characteristig 


Varimum 
Jinnits of 
Infrartion * 
por Tulo 
of 400) 
HH . 

- - 
S lh . 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


( tarai Extru l inse 


, 


( a ) The Abre shall be 

clean and ronsonab 
ly dry . 


[ targi Fino 


, 


, 


, 


( Traumy to JalA 40 " 
groaninh . 
Creany, light yteen . 30 " 
ish to slightly grey . 


12 l) . 


- - - 


Includes sticks, dust, dirt, etc . - For accidental errors in grading a tolerance 
of 23 lb . per bale will be permissible . 

* * For accidental crrors in grading a tolerance of 25 per cent. will be permis 
sible . 


748 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3 , 1952 


( PART II - SEC, 3 


Spoolal oharacterigtiça 

wer - Avorage 
Grede designation Maximum 

length * * 

General 
limits of Colour of Abre of hanks Characteristics 
refraotion * 

(minimum ) 
por balo 

of 400 lb . 
Sooni Finet , , 16 lb . Greenish gręy to 33 " (6 ) The strande ghali . 

vory light brown . 

be of reasonably 

uniform length , 
Jubbulporo Finot 20 lb . Groonigh grey to 38 " 

free from tangling 
light brown . 

und reasonably free 

from sticking aroopt 
Jubbulporo No . 1 . 20 lb . Groonigh brown to 30 in the came of 

grey , 

shorts where unſ 
Bhorta . . . 25 lb . Croamy to groy . .. formity in length 

and freodom from 
tangling shall not 

be necessary . 
* Includeg sticks , dust, dirt, etc . - For accidental crrors in grading a tolerance 
of 23 lb . per bale will be permissible . 

* *For accidental errors in grading a tolerance of 2 per cent. will be permis 
sible . 

Seoni Flne may include Itarsi Abre of 24 " und above . 
# Jubbulpore Fine may include Seoni Abre oſ 24 " and above ." 
(b ) the existing sub -heading “ ( V ) PILIBHIT QUALITY shall be renurnber 

ed as " (vi) PILIBHIT QUALITY " . 
3 . In part B of Schedule VI — 
( a ) for the heading of Part B the following heading shall be substituted , 

namely : 
" B . Grade designations and definition of quality of Sanhemp known com 

mercially as Ganjam or green san hemp (Dressed ) " , 
( b ) after the leading of Part B the following sub - liouling shall be insertect 

Ilamely : 
" (i ) Calcutta Dressed ” , 
( c ) after sub -heading " ( I Calcutta Dressed " , and the entries there -under, 

the followilng yub -heading and the entries shall be insterted at the 
end , namely : 

" (li) Bombay Pressed " 
Special characteristics , 

Average 
Grado designation Maximuun 

length * * 

Gonera ) 
limritw of colour of fibro of hanku ( haracteristics 
refraction * 

(miuinum ) 
per balo 
of 100 lb , 


1 


Red dressed 


0 


lb . 


Croanny to 
groen , 


light 


Groen drossod 


. 


. 


81h . 


Light gren 
light giry . 


to 


36 inches (~ ) Thin fihro shull ,be 

clean and scagunably 

Gry . 
30 inches (6 ) Tin tronde all 

be of Axunubly 
inturin lrngth uud 

strwyth . 
30 inches (c ) The fibre gull 

be evenly dressed 
and fine from 
strappy 1001 Gudy 

and tunelis, 
30 inches 


Black dressed . 


. 


. 


10 lb). 


Darlish gry 


, 


Gross black drekend 


, 


10 lb . 


Dark grey 


- 


- 


- 


* Includes sticks, tangled mass of very short and weak pieces oť strands dust 
dirt etc . For accidental errors in grading i tolerance of 2 . Ib . per balc will be 
permissible . 

* * For aceldental errors in grading a tolerance of 33 per cent. is permissible , 


PAR 


J } 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 9, 1982 


4 . Schedule VIII shall be omitted . 

3 . In Schedule IX after the sub -heading " ( ii ) U . P , QUALITY " and the entries 
thereunder the following sub -heading and connected entries shall be inserted at 
the end , namely 

" ( ijl) Bombay Quality 
- - - - - 
Special characteristica 

Cleneral 
Grade Designations 

Chiuraotoristion . 
Maximum limite 
of rafrection Fer Colour of Aibre. 
Tale of 400 lhs , 


2 


. 


. 


. 


20 lb . 


The Abro allall be reason . 


Red Tow 
Groen Tow 


Ably dry . 


, 


, 


20 lb . 


Creamy to light 

green , 
Light green to 

light grey. 
Groenigh gray to 

groy . 


Black Tow 


. 


. 


. 


30 in). 


" Includes sticks , dust , dirt, etc. For accidental errors in grading a tolerance of 
5 lb . per bale will be permissible . " 

6 . Schedules IX , X and XI shall be renumbered as Schedules VIII, IX and X , 
respectively . 

(No. F .2 -2 / 52 -DTE .II. ] 
N . K . BHOJWANI, Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 24th April 1952 
S . R . O . 1785 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sections ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) 
of section 9 of the Cinematograph Act , 1918 ( II of 1918 ), the Central Government 
hereby directs that the rules made by the Government of Hyderabad under sec 
tion of the Cinematograph Act, 1346 Fasli, in so far as they relate to Sanctioning 
of cinematograph Alms for exhibition shall stand repealed . 

[ No . 20 / 9 / 51- F .) 
New Delhi, the 28th April 1952 


R . O . 786 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub - rule 
- -of rule ll of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , , 1951, Shri V . S . Shroff, 
superintendent in the regional office of the Central Board of Film Censors at 
Madras, was appointed to officiate as Assistant Regional Officer at Madras, from 
the 12th November , 1951 to 17th November , 1931 , 

[No. 26 / 66 / 51-F .] 
C . B . RAO , Dy , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

(ARCHAEOLOGY) 

New Delhi, the 23rd April 1952 
S . R . O . 787 . - In exercise of powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 of 
the Ancient Monuments Preservation Act, 1904 (VII of 1904) , the Central Gov 
ernment is pleased to declare the ancient monuments in Chamba District , Hima 
chal Pradesh , described in the annexed schedule , to be protected within th mean 
ing of the said Act . 


SOHIDULE 


200 


Locality 


Name of Monument 


Ownership 


Boundary : North - South- East-West . 


Serial District 
No. 

I Chamba , 


Chemba Town 


2 
3 . 


Ditto 
Ditto 


Ditto 
Ditto 


. 
. . 


Ditto 


Ditto 


. 


Ditto 


Ditto 


, 


- - - - - - 
, Shri Lakshmi Narayan Group Temple Deptt . - Enclosed on all sides by streets separa 
of Temples , Muhalla Hatt 

ting it from Arya Kanya Mahavidha 
nals . 

laya to its east and Akhandchandi Palace 

to its North . 
. Shri BansiGopal Temple 

Ditto . - North and East Houses . 

South and West Streets . 
. Shri Hari Rai Temple , . Ditto . . East . — Post Office . 

West . - Telegraph Office . 
South . - - & roed with GandhiGate on it . 

North . - Houses . 
, Shri Sita Ram Temple Mahalla Pujari Sunder and North ( in part ) and west and Gouth . 
Bangotu . 

Siripat . 

Streets. 

East and ( in part) North . — Houges . 
. Shri Bajreshwari Temple , Bha Pujari Vjay Pershad Enclosed by Pujari s house on the north 
diath . 

and the hill slope on the remaining 

sides . 
. Shri Chamunda Devi Temple Temple Deptt. . On the spur of a hill led upto by a road and 

& flight of gteps . 
Rock Sculpture depicting Sita Ditto . . On a hill slope near Sarotha Nala . 

Ram , Hanu78nå etc . Sar . 

otha, Pargana , Panjila . 
. Shri Shakti Davi Templo V . Ditto . Adjoining & village flanked by folds and 
Chhatrari, Pargana Piura . 

8 cador forest with the old Charbe 

Bharmaut Rood on its Southern sido . 
Laxmi (Lakhan ) Devi Temple ) . 

Groups of temples along with a Post Office , 
Bhardur. 

Kardar s Kothi and & Oumber of shops 
. Mani Mabesh Temple Bhar . 

lied on the plot of ground named Cho 
maur . 

Temple Deptt. wrasi around which there are cultiva . 
Nartingh Temple Bharaur . . 

ted fields of the nearby villages and the 
Ganesh Temple Bharmeur . 

Chanba - Bharmaur Rood crosses it 
from West to East . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,MAY3,1952 


Ditto 


. 


Ditto 
Ditto 


. 
. 


. 
. 


Ditto 


. 


E 


Darotha Nala . 


* Ditto 


. 


. 


Ditto 


, 


Ditto 


. 


Bharmour Police 
Station 

. 


Ditto 


Ditto 


Ditto 
Ditto 


Ditto 
Ditto 


[PARTII-SEC.S 


[No. F .44 / 52 - A .2. ] 
B . CHATTERJEE , Under Secy . 


. 


. 


- 


ISO 


. 


. MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 24th April , 1952 
S .R . O , 788 . - The following draft of further amendments to the Drugs Rules , 
1945 , which it is proposed to make in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 
12 and 33 of the Drugs Act , 1940 (XXIII of 1940) , is published as required by the 
said sections for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and 
notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken into consideration on or after 
the 3rd August 1952 . Any phjections or suggestions which may be received from 
any person in respect of the said draft before the date specified will be considered 
by the Central Government. 

Draft Amendments 
In Part IV of Schedule F of the said Rules under the heading " ( L ) PROVISIONS 
APPLICABLE TO ANTI- VENOM SERUM (ANTI -VENENE)" — 
( a ) for parágrap : 2, the following paragraph shall be substituted , namely : - - 
“ 2, Standard preparations : No recognised standard venoms are at present 

available ." 
( b ) for clause ( a ) of sub paragraph ( 1) of paragraph 5 , the following clause 
shall be substituted , namely : - - 
" ( a ) The potency of anti-venom serum (anti-venene) will be expressed as 

the neutralising value of 1 c. c . of the Anished product against the 
amount of dried venom (expressed in mgm .) of the species of snake 
from which it has been prepared . The test venom will be dried to 
constant weight and maintained in this state under vacuum . The tests 
employed for estimation of potency will be such as would meet the 
approval of the Ucensing authority ." 

[No. F .1 -5, 52 -DS: ] 
S . DEVANATH , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 26th April 1952 
S . R . O . 789. — Corrigendum .- - In this Ministry s notification No. S . R . O . 561, dated 
the 20th March , 1952, published in Part II, Section 3 , of the Gazette of India 
dated the 29th March , 1952 , for the words alternatively and quadrant substitute 
the words alternately and guardant respectively . . 

[No. F .28 - 58 / 51 -MII. ] 
J. N . SAKSENA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 28th April 1952 
S . R . O . 790 , -- The following : draft of an amendment to the Cochin Harbour Craft 
Rules , 1947, which it is proposed to make , in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (k ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of the section 6 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (XV of 
1908 ) , and in supersession of the Cochin State Harbour Craft Rules , 1124 , is 
published , as required by sub -section ( 2 ) of the soid section , for the information of 
all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the dratt 
will be taken into consideration on or after the 1st June 1952 . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specifled will be considered by the Central 
Government. . 

Draft Amendment 
In rule 2 of the said rules , for the definition of the term " Port" the following 
deAnition shall be substituted , namely : - 
: " Port" means the Port of Cochin comprised within the territories of the 

States of Travancore -Cochin and Madras the limits of which have 
been specified in the notification of the Ministry of Transport 
No. 11- P ( 107) 49 , dated the 8th January 1952 . 

[No, 6 - P . II ( 89 ) / 51. ] 
T . S . PARASURAMAN , Dy. Secy . 


" 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY }," 1932 " YA # N 


CS Y 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 

(Rallway Board ) 

New Delhi, the 24th April 1952 
S . R . O . 791, — Whereas in the notification of the Government of India in the 
late Railway Department (Railway Board ) No . 1078 - T , dated the 9th March , 1929 , 
general rules were made for all rallways in the territory then known as British 
India administered by the Government and for the time being used for the public 
carriage of passengers , animals or goods. 

And whereas the said rules were adopted by the Barsi Light Railway Company 
Ltd ., and the Madras Port Trust Railway , with the sanction of the Government 
of India in the late Railway Department (Railway Board ) conveyed in the Notifica 
tions No. 1078 - T , dated the 21st August , 1929, and 26th June, 1929 respectively . 

And whereas the said rules were amended by the Railway Board s notification 
No. 809 - TG , dated 11th July 1951, published in the Gazette of India , Part II, 
Section 3 , dated the 21st July , 1951 . 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of the 
section 47 of the Indian Railway Act , 1890 ( IX of 1890 ) , and by the notification 
of the Government of India in the late Department of Commerce and Industry , 
No. 801, dated the 24th March , 1905 , the Railway Board hereby sanction the 
making of the said amendment in the said rules as adopted by the Barsi Light 
Railway , Kurduwadi and the Madras Port Trust Railway , Madras. 

[No. 809 - TG .) 
RANJIT SINGH , 
Director , Traffic Transportation , 

Railway Board , 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 

( Posts & Telegraphs ) 

New Delhi, the 22nd April 1952 
S . R . O . 92. Corrigendum . - In the Ministry of Communications (Posts & 
Telegraphs notification , S . R . O . 1546 , dated the 6th October, 1951, published on 
pages 1708 to 1798 of the Gazette of India , dated the 6th October , 1951, Part II 
Section 3 : 
On page 1709, in rule 3 (3 ) - in line 2 , for " sub -I le" read " gub -rule " and in 

line 3 , for " sectior " read " section " . 
On page 1710 , in rule 12 - in line 5 , for " Deposi ” read “ Deposit " and in last 

Une for " provişi n " read " provisions" . 
On page 1712 , in rule 18 ( e ) in line 2 , for the indistinct word between the 

words " which " and appear " read " It" . 
On page 1712 , in rule 20 — for " cypher " read " cipher” . 
On pago 1713 , in rule 24 ( b ) , in line2for " conse quently " read " consequently " . 
On page 1713 , in rule 26 , in line 2 - for " 7" read " 27" . 
On page 1713 , in rule 27 (b ), in line 2 — for " 23 " read " 24 " . 
On page 1713, in rule 28 , in line 2 — for " rate" read " rates " . 
On page 1714 , in rule 30 , în line 2 - -for " wr tten " read " written " . 
On page 1714 , in rulę 33 , in line for " te" read " the " . In line 4 , for " offe" 

tead office " . In line 5 , for " chargi g " read " charging " . In line 9 , 

for " d stricts " read " districts" . 
On page 1714 , in rule 38 , in line 4 - for "he" read " the " . 
On page 1714 , in rule 37 , in line 3 — for " addr ssed " read " addressed" . 
On page 1715 , in ruleg 40 , in line 1 — for " sub ect" read " Subject " , in clause 

( xi) , in line 1, for " y early " read " yearly " , in clause (xill), in line 1 , 
for " permanent" read “ permanently " , in line 4 , for “ vearly " read 

" yearly " 
One page 1718, in rule 40 , in clause ( xiv ), in line 1, for " fe & sha l" read “ fees 

shall" . - - 
On page 1718 , In rule 41, in line 4 - for " o Arms" read " or firms" . 


on partead. A stricts " je 38, in line 3 - for “ * 


PART 11 - SEC 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1952 


On page 1716 , in rule 45, in line 1 - for " th " read " the" . 
On page 1717, in rule 50 , in line 3 -- for " langu ge” read " language " . 
On page 1718 , in rule 57, in line 1, for " Alt rations" tead " Alterations " . 
On page 1719, in rule 59 , in the examples — for " Res onsibility " read " responsi 

bility " , for " Em hl " read " Emvchi” , 
On page 1721, in item IV — for " d livery " read " delivery" . 
On page 1727, in rule 96 ( ii ), in line 1 - - for " exceesds" read " exceeds” . 
On page 1728 , in rulc 102 , in line 2 — for " it" read " Its " . 
On page 1728 , in rule 105, in lines 2 and 3, for " by tollacted " read " be 

collated " , in line 4 , for " located " read " colated " . 
On page 1729, in rule 131, in line 2, for " Cylon ” read " Ceylon " , in line 5 , for 

" ffice " read " olice ” , - in line 11 , for hereinatter " read “ hereinafter " . 
On page 1729 , in rule 11€ , in line 1 -- for " del vered " read " delivered " , 
On page 1730 , in rule 122 - in line 1, for " el graph ” read " telegraph ” , in 

clause (b ) , in line 1 , for the indistinct word between the words " the" 

and " office " read " telegraph ” . 
On page 1731 , in rule 129 , in line 2 — for " fo ms" read " forms" . 
On page 1732, in rule 132 , in line 3 - - for "fe” read " free " . 
On page 1733, in rule 133, in line 2 — for “ pre ss " read " press" . 
On page 1734 , in rule 155 , in line 1, - for " he " read " the " . 
On page 1735 , in rule 135 ( 1 ), n “ Note -- for " telegerph o Ace " read " telegraph 

office " . 
On page 1735 , in rule 135 (2 ), in line 2- - for " unregister d " read " unregistered " , 
On page 1735 , in rule 136 , in line 1 , for " pr ss" read " press" . 
On page 1735 , in rule 136 (1 ) - in line 1, for “ uch ” read " such " , in line 2 — for 

" En lish ” read " English " . 
On page 1735 , in rule 136 (2 ) in line 4 , for " conclud " read " conclude ". 
On page 1735 , in rule 136 (4 ) in line (2 ) — for " grea er" read " greater" . 
On page 1735 , in rule 140 , in line 7 — for " calculat d " read " calculated " . 
On page 1736 , in rule 140 (4 ), in line 2 — for " check " read " Check " . 
On page 1737 , in rulę 143 , in line 2 - - for " r gulat s" read " regulates" . 
On page 1737 , in rulę 143 ( 2 ), in line 4 - for " preven ” read " prevent" , 
On page 177 :7 , in rule 143 (5 ), in line 1 - for " Bu ma" read " Burma" . 
On page 1738 , in rule 149 ( 3), in line 6 — for " Central” read "General” , 
On page 1739, in rule 157, in line 2 — for " wi h " read " with " . 
On page 1739 , in rule 159 , in line 3 -- for “ wo ds" read " words" , in line 6 

for " advce " read " advice " . 
On page 1740, in rule 162 ( 1), in line 4 - for " aga nst" read " against" , in line 

6 - - for " ref nds " read " refunds" and for " accountof ( 1 )" read " account 

of ( 1) " . 
On page 1743, in rule 176 , in line 1, for " tel graph ” read " telegraph " . 
On page 1744 , in rule 177, under the heading " (d ) special Instructions and 

Conventional signs" for " Telegraphe restant" read " Telegraphe restate" . 
On page 1745 , in rule 180, in the list of languages - for " E odlan read 

Estonian " , for " Fl mish " read " Flemish " , for " Icela nda " read 
" Icelandic " , for " Li huanian " read " Lithuanian " , for " Ouolo " read 
" Ouolol” , for " Span sh " read " Spanish " , for " Wel h " read " Welsh " , for 

" Yorou " read “ Yorouba" . 
On page 1748 , in rule 181, in line 2 -- for " tel gram " read " telegram " . 
On page 1746, in rule 181 (f), in line 3 — for " ori i" read " origin " . 
On page 1740 , in rule 181( b ), in line 1 - for " begin ng" read " beginning" , in 

line 2 — for " lengt!" Tead " length " . 
On page 1748 , in the proviso to rule 181, in line 1 - - for " Chira" read " China" , 

in line 2 - - for " he official" read " the official" , in line 3 — for " Chi ese" 

read " Chinese " . 
On page 1746 , in rule, 182, in line 2 — for "Crtity " read " Certity " . 


784 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3 , 1952 


[PART II — Sec. 3 


On page 1747 , in the proviso to rule 185 , for “ tele ram " read “ telegram " . 
On page 1747, in rule 186 , in line 2 - for " fr" read " for " , in line 4 - fot 

" abbre iate " pead " abbreviated" , for " th " read " the" for " cle k " read 
" clerk " , jot " hall " read " shall" , for " cros" read " cross " ; in line 5 — for 

" pla ed " read " placed " . 
On page 1747, in rule 187 , in line 1, - - for " se der " read " sender " , in line 2 

For " Th " read " the" and for “ whi h " read " which " . 
On page 1747, in rule 188 , in line 2 — for " o tain ” read " contain " , in line 3 

for " foreig " read “ foreign " and for " d stination " read " destination " . 
On page 1747 , in the proviso to rule 188 , in line 1 - - for " fur" read " four" , 
On page 1747, in the rule 189 , in line 2 — for " he ” read " the " , for " tele ams" 

rend " telegrams" , for " wi hout" read " without" . 
On page 1747 , in rule 190 , in line 2 -- for " requested to so o by" read 

" requested to do so by " . 
On page 1747 ,,in rule 192 , in line 9--- for " teleph e " read " telephone " , in line 

10 — for the indistinct word between the words " that" and " belongs " 

read " office " . 
On page 1743 , in rule 193 ( ii), in line 2 — for “ ain ” read " train " . 
On page 1748 , in rulę 195 , in line 7 - for “ u n ” read " name" , in line 8 for 

" Immediatelyafter " read “ immediately after " . 
On page 1748 , in rule 197 , in line 2 , for " restant" read " restante " . 
On page 1748 , in rule 198 , in line 4 - for " non - del very hereof” read " non 

delivery thereof " . 
On page 1749 , in rule 202 , in line 1 — for " sign ture " read " signature" , for 

" ignature " read " signature" , in line 5 - - for "me cantile " read 

" mercantile " , 
On page 1749 , in the proviso to rule 203 , for the words in lines 5 and . 6 , most 

of which are inuistinct read the following : - 
" be charged for or transmitted . Isolated signs of punctuations shall be 

transmitted only at the request of the sender and shall in such case 

be counted as provided " . 
On page 1749, in rule 205 , in line 4 - for " offle" read " offlce " , in line 5 - fot 

" particular " read " particulars" . 
On page 1749, in rule 206 , in line 1 — for " Sandard " read " Standard " , in une 

2 — for " hour " read " hours" . 
On page 1749, in rule 207 , in line 1--- for " s nder" read " sender" , 
On page 1750 , in rule 208 (i), for " abr dged ” read " abridged " . 
01 page 1750 , in rule 209 , in line 2 - - for " ditionery " read “ dictionary " . 
On page 1751, in rule 214 , in line 2, for " apo trophe " read " apostrophe " . 
On page 1751, in rule 216 , in line 1 - for " Mete logical" read " Meteorological" . 
On page 1751 , in rule 217, in line 1 -- for " contrary ” read " words contrary " . 
On page 1751, in the proviso to rule 217, in line 1 -- for " countri s" read 

" countries" . 
On page 1752 , in rule 218 , in line 2 — for " rec koned ” read " rackoned " . 
On page 1752 , in rule 220 , in line 1 - for “ elegraph ” read " telegraph " and 

for " termediæte" read " intermediate ” , in line 3 — for " atonce " read 

" at once " . 
On page 1752, in rule 221, in line 2 - for " o fice " read " office " . 
On page 1755 . in " Note " under rule 224 , in line 2 - - for " Irable " read " liable " 

and in line 4 for " Administra tion " read " Administration " . 
On page 1761, in rule 261 , In line 1 -- for " be omes" read " becomes" , in line 2 

for " fore an " read " foreign " , 
On page 1761, in rule 263, in line 3 — for " adiressee " read " addressee" . 
On page 1761 , in rule 264 , in line 1 — for " Restant " read " Restante " and in 

line 3 - for " Correspo dence " read " Correspondence " . 
On page 1761, in rule 266 , In line , for " an " read " and " . 
On page 1763, in rule 282 , in line 2, for " or gin ” read " origin " , 


On page 17agular " read "partidine 4 - for • 


. 





" 


T 


PART 





" 


T11 


CIPE 


. 


ME GAZETTE OF INDIA , -MAY . Ito 


- - 


LATIN 


: 


21 


On page 1764 , in rule 285 , in line 4 , for " prescrild" : tead " prescribed " , in 

line b -- for " pr scribed " read " prescribed " . 
On page 1764, in rule 287 , in line 3 , for " tele raph " read " telegrapb " . 
On page 1764, in the first proviso to rule 287, in line 1 - for " elegram " read 

" telegram " , 
On page 1764 , in the second proviso to rule 287- - in line 3 for " ne ess ry " 

read " necessary ” . 
On page 1764, in rule 288 , in line 5 , for “ Guidge" read "Guide " , in line 7 , 

for " re -dir cting" read " re - directing" , in line 8 , for " elegrams" read 

* telegrams" . 
On page 1764, in rule 290 , in line 2 , for " a " read " an " . 
On page 1765 , in rule 291 , in line 3 for " ca cel" read " cancel" . 
On page 1705, in rule 292 , in line 6 - - for “ ins ruction " read " nstruction " . 
On page 1766, in rule 299 , in line 2 , for " te egraph ” read " telegraph " . 
On page 1767, in rule 308 (a ), in line 1 - for " Post 1" read “ Postal" , 
On page 1767, in rule 313 , in line 3 - for " plototelegram " read " phototelegram " . 
On page 1768 , in rule 315 , in line 2 - for " fore gn ” read " foreign " , In line 3 

for " teleg am " Tead " telegram " . 
On page 1708 , in rule 318 — in line 1 — for "orig nating " read " originating" . 
On page 1768, in rule 319 , in line 1 - for " cha ge” read " charge" . 
On page 1769 , in rule 324 , in line 2 - - for “ The" read " a " , for " periodical,, 

publication " read " periodical publication " and for " news agency " read 
" Government or press news agency " and in line 3 — for " authorised " 

read " an authorised " . 
On page 1769, in rule 326 ( 1 ) in line 2 , for " news agency " read " Government 

or press news agency " and for " authorised" read " an authorised " . 
On page 1770 , in rule 326 (6 ) , in line 3 - for "wd" read " word " . 
On page 1770, in rule 327, in line 2 , for "meteorol gicærl " read "meteorological" . 
On page 1770 , in rule 328 , in line 2 --- for " news agency" read " Government or 

press news agency" . 
On page 1771, in rule 334 , in line 1 - - for " officia 1" read " official" . 
On page 1772, in rule 341 ( 2), in line 4 - for " sdeclaration " read " declaration " . 
On page 1773, in rule 348 (i) (e), in line 2 - for "mandate or read "mandate of" . 
On page 1773 , in rule 348 (1)( e ), for " diplomatic or consular agents " read 

" Diplomatic or Consular Agents" . 
On page 1775 , in rule 359 ( d ), ini Une l - for " age ces" read " agencies" . 
On page 1775, in rule 361, in line 5 - - for " information obtained instruction , 

glven ” read “ information obtained or instructions given " , 
On page 1775 , in rule 363, in line 1 - - for " 38 " read " 361" . 
On page 1777 , in rule 370 ( h ), in line 3 — for " eorrect” read " correct " . 
On page 1779 , in rule 380 , for " fo " read " for " . 
On page 1705, in rule 457 (1 ), in line 1 - for "Ar fund " read “ A refund" . 
On page 1796 , in rule 458 , in line 5 -- for " subsequert" read " subsequent" . 
On page 1796, in rule 459 ( li ) ( a ), in Une 2 - for " radia l" read " radial" . 

[ T- 190 / 501 
K . V . VENKATACHALAM , Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 23rd April 1952 
8 . R . O . 193. - In pursuance of sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 3 of the Indian Aircraft Rules , 
1937 , the Central Government hereby authorizes the Director General of Civil 
Aviation to exercise the powers of the Central Government under clause ( c ) of 
Bub - rule (2 ) of rule 8 of the said Rules . 

[No. 10 - A /59-51. ) 


1, * *** 


- THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 9, 


4 . 


. . 


. 


: S . R . O . 791 . - ID exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Indian 
Aircraft Act, 1934 (XXII of 1934 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that the 
following further amendments shall be made in the Indian Aircraft Rules, 1037, 
the same having been previously published as required by section 14 of the said 
Açi , namely : 

In the said Rules 

1. For sub -rules ( 1A ) and ( 2 ) of rule i the following sub -rules shall be sub 
stituted, namely : 
" They extend to the whole of India and apply also (unless the contrary 

intention Appears ) 
( a ) to , and to persons on , aircraft registered in India wherever they may 

be ; 
(b ) to, and to persons on , all aircraft for the time being in or over India : 
Provided that in the case of aircraft registered in a country other than 

India , the regulations of that country relating to registration , licens 
ing of personnel, airworthiness and log books shall apply in place 

of the provisions contained in Parts IV , V , VI and IX of these Rules ; 
Provided further that the foregoing proviso shall not apply to alrcraft 

registered in any country whose regulations are not based on 
standards at least equal to the mlrimum standards established 
from time to time under the Convention on International Civil 

Aviation opened for signature at Chicago on the 7th December , 1944 ." 
2 . After rule 39 the following rule shall be inserted namely : - 

" 39A : - Disqualification from holding or obtaining a licence 
Where the licensing authority is satisfied , after giving him an opportunity 

of being heard , that any person 
( a ) is a habitual criminal or is habitually intemperate in the use of alcohol, 

or is an addict of narcotics , drugs , etc ., or 
(h ) is using , has used or is about to use an aircraft in the commission of 

a cognizable offence or in contravention of these rules , or 
( c) has, by his previous conduct as member of the crew of an aircraft, 

shown that he is irresponsible or is likely to endanger the safety 
of the aircraft or any person or thing carried therein , or of other 

aircraft or of persons or things on the ground , 
the licensing authority may , for reasons to be recorded in writing , 
make an order disqualifying that person for a specified period from 

holding or obtaining it licence . 
( 3 ) Upon the issue of any order under sub -rule ( 2 ), the person affected , if 

he is the holder of a licence, shall forthwith surrender his licence to 
the licensing authority , if the licence has not already been surrendered , 
and the licensing authority shall keep it until the disqualification has 

expired or has been removed ." 
3. In sub - rule (2 ) of rulo 42 

( a ) in clause ( iii), the word " or ” shall be omitted ; 

( b ) Clause (iv ) shall be omitted . 
4 . After rule 42 , the following rule shall be inserted , namely : 
142A Pilot not to fly for more than 125 hours during any period of 30 

consecutive days. — No pilot of a flying machine shall , in his capacity 
as such pilot , fly for more than 125 hours during any period of 30 

consecutive days : 
Provided that without prejudice to the provisions of rule 160, the Director 

General of Civil Aviation may , subject to such conditions and limita 
tions as he may specify , by order in writing , exempt any such pilot from 

the provision of this rule. 
Explanation , For the purposes of this rule . the flying time of a pilot either 

as sole pilot or pilot in command of an aircraft will be counted fully 
and the flying time of a pilot engaged as co -pilot or supergumaray 
pilot will be counted at 80 per cent of the flight time." 

[No. 10- A / 48-51. ] 
P. K . SAMAL, Under Secy . 


CAT 
" 


11 


1 


1751 


, 517 


- 


Insta F THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 2005 , : 

20 . 
MINISTRY OF WORKS , PRODUCTION & SUPPLY 

(Central Boilers Board ) 

New Delhi, the 24th April 1952 
S . R . O . 795 , Corrigendurn . - - The following correction shall be made in the 
Central Boilers Board s No. S . R . O . 363, dated the 12th February 1952 , published in 
the Gazette of India , Part II — Section 3 , date the 1st March 1952 , Page 332 , 
namely : 
For the figure " 524 " read " 527 " , 

[No. M / BL - 304 (66 ).] 

N . P . DUBE , 
Secretary , Central Boilers Board . 


New Delhi, the 23rd April 1952 
S . R . O . 796 . — In pursuance of clause (b ) of section 2 of the Requisitioning and 
Acquisition of Immovable Property Act , 1952 (XXX of 1952), the Central Gov 
ernment hereby authorise all the Collectors in the State of Bombay to perform 
the functions of a competent authority under the said Act in their respective 
Jurisdictions. 

[No. 3187-WII /:52.] 
S . V . JOSHI, Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 29th April, 1952 
S . R . O . 797. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 4 
of the Inflammable Substances Act, 1952 (XX of 1952) , the Central Government 
hereby directs that the following amendment shall be made in the notifcation of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Works, Froduction and Supply No . 
M - 102 (43) / 51 , dated the 31st March , 1952, namely : 
1 . The words " and methyl alcohol" and " or methyl alcohol" , occurring in 

paragraphs 1 and 2 respectively , of the said notifcation , shall be 

deleted 
2 . In item 3 of the Schedule annexed to the said notification , for the 

words " and Nowgong " the following shall be substituted , namely : - - 
" Nowgong, Hanumana and Chakghat" , 

[No. M - 102( 43)/ 51.] 
S . K . GUHA , Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 23rd April 1952 
S . R . O , 798 . - The following regulations which have been made by the Board 
of Trustees of the Coal Mines Provident Fund in pursuance of sub -paragraph ( 2 ) 
of paragraph 24 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme published with the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No . PF15 (5 ) / 48 , 
dateri the 11th December , 1948 , and with the approval of the Central Government 
are published for general information : 
THE COAL MINES PROVIDENT FUND OFFICE ESTABLISHMENT (CONTRI 

BUTORY PROVIDENT FUND ) REGULATIONS , 1952. 
1. Short title .- - ( 1 ) These Regulations may be called the Coal Mines Provident. 
Fund Office Establishment (Contributory Provident Fund ) Regulations, 1952 . 

( 2) They shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from the 1st day 
of April , 1951. 
2 . Definitions.- - In these rules unless the context otherwise requires 

(i) " Commissioner" means the Coal Mines Provident Fund Commisstoner. 


1968 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1982 


[ PART IISSEC. 3 


. 


( ii) Emoluments means pay , leave salary or subsistence grant, as defined 

in the Fundamental Rules and includes : — 
(a ) any wages paid by the Provident Fund Organisation to the employees 

not remunerated by fixed monthly pay ; and 
( b ) any remuneration of the nature of pay received in respect of foreign 

service (i.e . service rendered with any other employer with the 

permission of the Coal Mines Provident Fund Commissioner . 
(ii) " Employee means any person holding an appointment , the emoluments 

of which are paid by the Coal Mines Provident Fund Organisation . 
(iv ) “ Family " means : 
( a ) in the case of male subscriber, the wife or wives and children of the 

subscriber and the widow or widows and children of deceased son 

of the subscriber : 
Provided that if a subscriber proves that his wife has been judicially 

separated from him or has ceased under the customary law of the 
community to which the parties belong to be entitled to mainten 
ance she shall thenceforth be deemed to be no longer a member of 
the subscriber s family in respect of matters to which these rules , 
relate , unless the subscriber subsequently indicates by express 
notification in writing to the Commissioner that she shall continue 

to be so regarded ; and 
(b ) in the case of a female subscriber , the husband and children of the 

subscriber and the widow or widows and children of a deceased 

son of subscriber : 
Provided that if a subscrįber by notification in writing to the Commis 

sioner expresses her desire to exclude her husband from her family , 
the husband shall thenceforth be deemed to be no longer a member 
of the subscriber s family in respect of matters to which these rules 
relate , unless the subscriber subsequently cancels formally in writ 

ing her notifcation excluding him 
Note I. -- " Children means legitimate chlldren . 
Note II. - An adopted child shall be considered to be a child only when 

the Commissioner or when any doubt arises in the mind of the 
Commissioner , the Solicitor to the Government of India , is satisfied 
that under the personal law of the subscriber , adoption is legally 

recognised as conferring the status of a natural child . 
( V ) Provident Fund mcans the Coal Mines Provident Fund Office Establish 

ment Contributory Provident Fund . 
( vi) Subscriber means any employee of the Coal Mines Provident Fund 

Organisation admitted to the Provident Fund. 
( vil) Coal Mines Provident Fund Organisation means the Organisation set 

up under the Coal Mines Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Act, 

1948 (Act No. XLVI of 1948 ). 
(viii ) Year means a financial year beginning on the 1st day of April and 

ending on the 31st March next following . 
3 . Constitution and management of the Provident Fund . - The Provident Fund 
shall be administered and maintained by the Commissioner in rupees in India . 

4 . These rules shall apply to all non -pensionable employees holding a sub 
stantive appointment in the Coal Mines Provident Fund Organisation : 

Provided that employees in temporary service may also be admitted to the 
Provident Fund with the, written consent of the Commissioner if they have been 
employed or in the opinion of the Commissioner are likely to be employed for at 
least three years : 

Provided further that persons appointed on probation to substantive appoint 
ments or appointed to officiate in an office which is vacant or the permanent in 
cumbent of which does not draw any part of the pay or count service may , if 
they are confirmed without interruption , be allowed to join the Provident Fund 
with retrospective effect from the date of their joining the service . The monthly 
subscription of a subscriber so admitted under these provisions to the Provident 
Fund shall not be less than 10 per cent. of his pay till all arrears are paid up in 
tull. 

Note . - - No employee who is in receipt of a pension from Government or for 
whom contribution is paid by the Coal Mines Provident Fund Organisation to any 


PART II — SEC, 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3 , 1962 


769 


recognised Provident Fund or on account of pension shall be admitted to the 
Provident Fund . 

6 . Nomination . - ( 1) A subscriber shall , as soon as may be after joining the 
Fund send to the Commissioner a nomination conferring on one or more persons 
the right to receive the amount that may stand to his credit in the Fund , in the 
event of his death before that amount has become payable , or having become 
payable has not been paid : 

Provided that if, at the time of making the nomination , the subscriber has a 
famly, the nomination shall not be in favour of any person or persons other than 
the members of his family . 

( 2 ) If a subscriber nominates more than one person under sub - rule ( 1 ) he shall 
specify in the nomination the amount or share payable to each of the nominees 
in such manner as to cover the whole of the amount that may stand to his credit in 
the Fund at any time. 

( 3 ) Every nomination shall be in such one of the Forms set forth in the 
First Schedule as is appropriate in the circumstances . 

(4 ) A subscriber may at any time cancel a nomination by sending a notice in 
writing to the Commissioner ; 

- Provided that the subscriber shall along with such notice send a fresh nomina 
tion made in accordance with the provisions of this rule . 
(5 ) A subscriber may provide in a nomination : 
( a ) in respect of any specified nominee that in the event of his predeceasing 

the subscriber , the right conferred upon that nominee shall pass to 

such other person as may be specified in the nomination ; 
(b ) that the nomination shall become Invalid in the event of the happening 

of a contingency specified therein ; provided that if at the time of 
making the nomination the subscriber has no family , he shall provide 
in the nomination that it shall become invalid in the event of his 

subsequently acquiring a family . 
(6 ) Immediately on the death of a nominee in respect of whom no special 
provision has been made in the nomination under clause ( a ) of sub - rule (5 ) or on 
the occurrence of any event by reason of which the nomination becomes invalid in 
pursuance of clause ( b ) of sub - rule (5 ) or the proviso thereto , the subscriber shalk 
send to the Commissioner a notice in writing cancelling the nomination together 
with a fresh nomination made in accordance with the provision of this rule . 

( 7 ) Every nomination made, and every notice of cancellation given by a sub 
scriber shall, to the extent that it is valid , take effect on the date on which it is 
received by the Commissiuner . 

6 . Subscriber s account. - - An account shall be prepared in the name of each 
subscriber and maintained by the Commissioner in the form set forth in the 
Second Schedule appended to these rules . 

7 . Conditions and rate of subscription . - ( 1 ) A subscriber shall subscribe 
monthly to the Provident Fund when on duty or foreign service . 

( 2 ) A subscriber may, at his election , not subscrlbe during leave. 

( 3 ) A subscriber shall intimate his election not to subscribe during leave by 
a written communication to the Commissioner before he proceeds on leave. 

(4 ) Failure to make due and timely intimation shall be deemed to constitute 
an election to subscribe . 

(5 ) The election of a subscriber intimated under this sub -rule shall be Anal, 

( 8 ) A subscriber shall not subscribe to the Provident Fund when on extraordi 
Dary leave without pay or under suspension . He shall , however , on return from a 
period of such leave without pay or on re -instatement after a period passed under 
suspension , he allowed the option to subscribe for that period , at the discretion 
of the Commissioner . The amount of subscription to be paid shall also be deter 
mined by the Commissioner the general principle to be observed being that the 
subscription should be calculated on half the emoluments drawn by the employee 
before he proceeded on leave without pay or was placed under suspension , 

8 . (1 ) The amount of subscription shall be fixed by the subscriber himself sub 
Ject to the following conditions : 

( a ) It shall be expressed in whole rupees : 
Provided that if the empluments of the subscriber do not exceed Afty rupees 

a month , the amount may be any multiple of a half rupee ; and 


; " 760 


. . 


. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1952 


[PART II - SEC. 3. 


( b ) it may be any sum so expressed at a rate not less than 62 per cent. 

( i.e . one anna in the rupee) of his monthly emoluments . The Board 
of Trustees may prescribe a maximum limit of subscription not 

exceeding 12 ; per cent. 
(2 ) For the purpose of sub -rule ( 1) the emoluments of a subscriber shall be 
(a ) in the case oľ a subscriber who was on duty on the 31st March of the 

preceding year, the emoluments to which he was entitled on that 

date ; 
(b ) in the case of a subscriber admitted to the Provident Fund on a subse 

quent date , the emoluinents to which he was entitled on such subse 

quent date ; 
( c ) in the case of a subscriber who was on deputation out of India on the 

said date or was on leave on the said date and continues to be on 
leave and has elected to subscribe during such leave, the emoluments 

to which he would have been entitled had he been on duty ; and 
( d ) in the case of a subscriber who was on leave on the said date and elected 

not to subscribe during such leave or was under suspension on the 
said date , the emoluments to which he was entitled on the first day 

after his return to duty 
( 3 ) The subscriber shall intimate the fixation of the amount of his monthly 
subscription for each year on the basis oť his emoluments and rate permissible . 

(4 ) The subscriber shall be permitted to increase the amount of subscription 
once at any time during the course of the year ; there shall, however , be no cor 
responding increase in the contribution by the Coal Mines Provident Fund 
Organisation . 

Provided that if a subscriber is on duty for a part of a month and on leave 
for the remainder of that month and if he has elected not to subscribe during 
leave the amount of the subscription shall be proportionate to the number of days 
spent on duty in the month . 

9 . Realisation of subscription . - ( 1) When the emoluments are drawn on the 
estallishinent pay bills , recovery of subscription to and the principal and interest 
of advances granted from thc Provident Fund shall be made by deduction from 
the pay bills . 

(2 ) When the emoluments are drawn otherwise, the subscriber shall forward 
his dues monthly to the Commissioner . 

10 . Contribution by the Coal Mines Prorident Fund Organisation . - ( 1 ) The 
Cominisgioner shall make yearly a contribution to the account of each subscriber, 

Provided that if a subscriber quits service or dies during the course of a year , 
proportionate contribution shall be credited to his account for the period between 
the close of the preceding year and the date of his retirement or death as the 
case may be . 

( 2 ) The rate of contribution made by the Commissioner shall be 64 per cent. 
( 1 / 16th ) of the subscriber s emoluments drawn on duty or if he has been on leave 
and elected to subscribe during such leave the emoluments to which he would 
have been entitled had he been on duty . 

( 3 ) The amount of contribution shall be rounded off to the nearest whole 
rupee (eight annas counting as the next higher rupee ). 

11 . Interest, - ( 1 ) The Commissioner shall pay to the credit of the account of 
a subscriber interest at such rate as the Central Government may from time to 
time prescribe for the payment of interest on a subscriber s accumulations in the 
Provident Fund . 

( 2 ) In addition to any amount to be paid under rule 17, interest thereon upto 
the end of the month preceding that in which payment is made, or upto the end 
of the sixth month after the month in which such amount became payable , which 
ever of these periods be less , shall be payable to the persons to whom such 
amount is to be paid ; provided that no interest shall be paid in respect of any 
period after the date which the Commissioner has intimated to that person ( or 
his agent) as the date on which he is prepared to make payment in cash , or if 
he pays by cheque after the date on which the cheque in that person s favour 18 
posted . 

12 . Advance . When the pecuniary circumstances of a subscriber are such that 
Indulgence is absolutely necessary, a temporary recoverable advance may, at the 


3 . PIR 


teist . 


E QAZETTE , 


INDIA , M 


discretion of the Commissioner, be granted to a subscriber out of the amount 
standing to his credit in the Provident Fund , on the conditions that -- 
(i) the advance is required to pay expenses on behalf of a subscrlber or 

his family on any of the following : - 
(a ) prolonged illness or medical attention , 
( b ) overseas passage for reasons of health or education , and 
( c ) marriage, funerals or ceremonies which by his religion it is incum 

bent upon the subscriber to perform , 
(ii) the advance is expressed in whole rupees and shall not , except for 

special reasons, exceed three months pay of the subscriber or 60 
per cent of the accumulation in the Fund , whichever is less and shall 
in no case exceed the amount of subscription and interest thereon 

standing to his credit in the Provident Fund . 
(1:1) a written request is made to the Commissioner showing reasons for the 

request : 
Provided that if the reason is of a confidential nature it may be communi 

cated to the Commissioner personally or confidentially . 
13. Any advance shall be recovered from the subscriber in such number of 
equal monthly instalments as the Commissioner may direct but the number shall 
not be less than 12 unless the subscriber so elects or in any case more than 24 , 
the amount of advance being raised or reduced , if necessary , to admit of the 
fixation of such instalments . The instalments shall be expressed in whole rupee 
and recovered from the subscriber s salary in the manner indicated in rule 9 . 
The first instalment shall commence from the Arst payment of a full months 
salary after the grant of advance . 

14 . After the principal of the advance has been fully repaid , interest thereon 
shall be recovered in one instalment at the rate of 5 /112 per cent of the principal 
for ench month or broken portion of a month during the period between the 
drawal and complete repayment of the principal : 

Provided that when thc advance ls distributed to be recovered in more than 
18 instalments , the interest may be recovered in two instalments . 

15 . Deductions - - Subject to the conditions that no deduction may be made 
which reduces the credit by more than the amount of any contribution by the 
Commissioner with interest thereon credited under rule 10 and 11 before the 
amount standing to the credit of a subscriber in the Provident Fund is paid out 
of the Fund , the Commissioner may direct the deductions therefrom and payment 
to the Administrative Account of 
(a ) any amount, if a subscriber has been dismissed from the service for 

grave mis -conduct ; 
Provided that, if the order of dismissal is subsequently cancelled , the 

amount so deducted shall, on his reinstatement in the service, be 

replaced at his credit in the Provident Fund ; 
(b ) any amount if a subscriber resigns his employment under the Coal 

Minos Provident Fund Organisation within five years of commence 
ment of service thereof otherwise than by reasons of superannuation 
or a declaration by competent medical authority that he is unfit for 

further service; and 
( c ) any amount due under a liability incurred by the subscriber to the Coal 

Mines Provident Fund Organisation . 
10 . Final withdrawal of accumulations in the Provident Fund. The amount 
standing to the credit of a subscriber shall become payable at the time of quitting 
service or the death of the subscriber in the manner provided by these rules . 

17. The total accumulations in the account of a subscriber less the amount of 
unrecovered advance and interest thereon , if any, shall be paid as follows : 

(i) to the subscriber on his ceasing to be an employee ; 
(ii) in the event of the death of the subscriber having made a nomination 

in accordance with these rules , to the nominee or nominees and in 
the event or such nominee or nominees pre - deceasing the subscriber, 
to the alternate nominee or nominees in the manner indicated in the 

declaration form ; or 
( 11 ) in the event of the death of the subscriber without having made A 

nomination in accordance with those rules or whose nominee or 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1948 


[PART 11 


to 3 


U 


nominees or alternate nominee or nominees has or have not survived 
the subscriber, to the legal or heirs of the subscriber on the production 
hy him or them of probate or letters of administration evidencing 
the grant to him or them of the administration of the estate of the 
subscriber or a certificate granted under the Indian Succession Act , 

1925, entitling the holder thereof to receive payment of such amount : 
Provided that if the amount of such accumulations does not exceed rupees 

Alve thousands It may be paid to any person appearing to the Com 
missioner to be entitled to receive it . 


FIRST SCHEDULE [ See rule 6 (3 ) 

Forms of Nomination 


I . When the subscriber has a family and wishes to nominute one member therof 

I hereby nominate the person mentioned below , who is al inomher of ny family as defined 
in rule 2 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund Offico Estuhlislıment (Contributory Provident Fund ) 
Regulations, 1962 to receive the amount that may stand to my crodit in tho Fund , in the event 
ofmy death before that Amount has become payable or having boromo payulle , has not been 
paid 


Ago 


Name and address of Relationship 
nominee . 

with subs 
criber , 


Contingencies 
on the happen . 
ing of which 
thonunninution 
shall become 
Invalid . 


Name, AddTONA Eud re 

lationship of the per 
Aon , if any , to whom 
the right of the 110 
mined shall pase in 
the event of his pre 
deceasing the Bube 
oriber . . 


. . . . . . . . . 19 . 


Dated this . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .day of . . . . . . . . . . . 
at . . . . . . . . . . 
Two witnessed to signature :-- 


Signature of subscriber . . . . . . 
II . When the subscriber hus a family and wishos to nominate more than one member therof 


I hereby nominate the persons mentioned below , who are members of my family as do - 
Aned in rulo 2 of the Coal Minos Provident Fund Offio . Establishment (Contributory Providont 
Fund ) Regulations , 1952, to receive the amount thatmay atand to my credit in the Fund , in the 
avont of ray doath before that amount has become payablo or having becomo payablo bag not 
been paid and diroot that tho said amount shall be distributed among the said persons in the 
manner shown below against their names : 


Am 


un 


Name and add - | Relationship 

Teos of pomi with subs 
neoh . 

criber , 


share of aocu 
mulations to be 
paid to each . 


Contingensies on Name and add. 
the happening rese and rela 
of which the tionship of the 
nomination person, if any, 
Bhall become to whom the 
invalid . 

right of the no 
minee shall paso 
in the event of 
his predo0048 . 
ing the gubeori. 


ber . 


Iris within 


PART 1 


- 


] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , M , K3197 


. 


45 


OD 


T 


11 


. .. .. ... .day of.. .. .. .. 


.. ... 19 


Dated this . . 
et . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Two witnesses to signature: 


1 . 


Signature of Bubscriber . . . . . . . 


" NOTA . — This column should be flled in Ho as to covor the whole amount that may stand 
to tho orodit of the gubboriber in the Fund at any time. 
III. When the subscriber has no family and wishes to nominate one person , 

I , having no family as definod in rule of the Coal Mines Provident Fund Office Establish 
ment ( Contributory Provident Fund ) Regulations , 1952, hereby nominato the person mentioned 
below to receive the amount that may stand to my orodit in the Fund , in the event of my death 
before that amount has bovome payable , or having become payable has not been paid : 


Age 


Name and address of Relationship 
nominee , 

with subacri 
ber. 


* Contingencies 
on the happen 
ing of which 
the nomination 
shall become 
invalid , 


Namo, address and re 

lationship of the person , 
if any , to whom the 
right of the nominee 
shall pass in the event 
of his predeceasing the 
subscriber . 


ated this . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .day of .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 
et . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Two witnessed to signature :-- 


Signature of subscriber . 


* * Where & subsoriber who has no family makes a nomination , he shall specify in this column 
that the nomination shall become invalid in tho event of his subsequently acquiring a family 


IV . When the subscriber has no family and wishes to nominate more than one person . 

I, having no family as defined in the rule 2 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund Office Estab . 
llohment (Contributory Provident Fund ) Regulationg, 1952, hereby nominate the persons 
mentioned below to receive the amount that may stand to my credit in the Fund , in the event 
of my death before that amount has become payable , or having becomo payable has not boon 
paid and direct that tho said amount shall be distributed among tho said persone in the manner 
abown below againgt their names : 


Age 


Name and add - / Relationships 

roos of nomi- with subs 
neos . 

cribor . 


" Amount or * * Contingencies 
share of scou - | on tho happen 
mulation to be ing of whioh 
paid to each . the nomination 

Bhall become 
invalid . 


Namo, address 
and relationship 
of person , if any , 
to whom the 
right of the 
nominee Bhall 
page in the 
event of his 
predoceasing the 
subscriber , 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 8; 1952 [PART 11 - Štc . 3 


. . . .. . . . . . day 


of. . . . . . . . . . 


19 


Dated this . . .. . .. . 
at . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . 


At 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


. 


. 


, 


Two witnesses to signature : 


2 . . . . . . . 


Signaturu of euhscriber . . . . 


- 


- - - 


* NOTE . — This volumii should be fillod in go as to cover the whole amount thut may stand to 
the credit of the subscriber in the Fund at any time. 

* * NOTE . --Whore & Subsoriber who has no furnily makos a nomination , he shall specify in 
this column that the nomination shall becomne invalid in the event of his subsequently acquiring a 
family , 


SECOND SCHEDULE 


Provident Funil Account und Abstruot Balance of each subscriber 


Namu of subscriber . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Appointment or appointments held under the 
C . M . P . F . Organisation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Corrarponcing autein ) OT 
. . . . . . Corresponding dute (s ) of appointroont . . . . . 

PONTI 


Açoount No. . . . . . . . 


Duto of admission to the Provident fund , 


Remarks or special provision , if any . . . . . . 


Subscription 


Contribution by the - - 
M . P . F , Organisation . 


of 


Pay on 31st March of Snbp | Re . | Totul ! With Monthly Subsori . | With - Remarks 
procoding yeur Ro. . . cription . fundo 

drawala balanoe ber s emo. drawals 
19 - 19 

on whion | luments 
with 

interest drawn on 
druwale 

is calcu - duty or his 
lated leave pala . 

ry if he 
eleots to 
pubacribe 
during 
leave . 


April , 
May , 
Juno , 
July 
August 
September 
Qotober 
November 
December . 
January 
February . 
March . 
Maroh ( Anal) 
March (supplement 
ary ) 

TOTAL 


PART 11 - SEC. 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1962 


700 


Contribution by tho Coal Minor 

Provident Fund Organization on 


Re 


Balanço from 19 - 19 
Deposits and Refunds 48 above 
Interest for 19 419 

TOTAL . . . 
Doduct Withdrawals as above 
Balance on SIøt March 19 . 
Osloulated by 


. 


Balunge from 19 
Interest for 19 

TOTAL 


- 19 
- 19 


Deduct - Withdrawals as above 
Balance on 31st Maroh 19 
Obecked by 


[No. PF .7 ( 5 ) /51. ] 


New Delhi, the 24th April 1952 
S . R . O . 795 . In exercise of the powerg conferred by section 7 of the Coal Mines 
Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Act , 1948 (XLVI of 1948 ) , the Central Goy 
ernment hereby directs that the following amendment shall be made in the Coal 
Mines Provident Fund Scheme, namely : 

In the said Scheme after paragraph 69, the following paragraph shall be in 
serted , namely : - - 
" 69A . Obligation to produce documents before Inspector . Where an Inspec 

tor in exercise of the powers conferred on him under clause ( b ) of 
sub - section (2 ) of Section 10 of the Act requires any person in charge 
of a coal mine or its office , to produce any document before him , that 
person shall produce such document before the Inspector " . 

[No. PF . 2 ( 11) / 52. ] 
S . R . O . 796 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Coal 
Mines Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Act, 1948 (XLVI of 1948) , the Central 
Government hereby directs that the following amendments shall be made in the 
Coal Mines Bonus Scheme, namely : 
In the said Scheme - 

( a ) after paragraph 11, the following paragraph shall be inserted, namely : 
" 11A . Obligation to produce documents before Inspector . Where an 

Inspector in exercise of the powers conferred on him under clause 
(b ) of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 10 of the Act requires any person 
incharge of a coal mine or its office to produce any document before 

him that person shall produce such document before the Inspector." 
(b ) In paragraph 12 , after sub - paragraph ( 2), the following sub - paragraph 

shall be inserted , namely : 
" ( 3 ) Whoever , in contravention of the provisions of paragraph 11A 

refuses or fails to produce any document before an Inspector shall 
be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six months 
or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with 
both " . 

[No. PF . 2 (11) / 52 .] 
New Delhi, the 28th April 1952 
S . R . O . 797 . — Corrigendum . In the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour, No . S .R .O . 585, dated the 25th March , 1952, publlshed on 
page 597 in Part II – Section 3 of the Gazette of India , dated , the 29th March , 
1952, for " Mr. R . C . Fldio " , read " Mr. R . C . Fidao " , 

[No. PF. 2 ( 1 ) /52. ] 
SADASHIVA PRASAD , Dy. Secy . 


"(3) Whouses or tales with imary ex 


New Delhi, the 24th April 1952 
S . R . O . 798 . - - In pursuance of section 8 of the Minimum Wages Act, 
1948 (XI of 1948 ) , and of rule 3 of the Minimum Wages (Central Advisory Board ) 
Rules , 1949, made under section 29 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby 
reconstitutes the Central Advisory Board , consisting of the following members , 
namely : 

Shri V . K . R . Menon , I.C . S ., Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of 
Labour - Chalaman . 


788 


- 


- - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1962 (PART 11 - SEC. 3 

- - - -- - - - -- - 

- 
Independent Members 
Shri B . B . Paymaster , I.C .S ., Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , 
Ministry of Works , Production and Supply , New Delhi, 

Dr , S . R . Son , M . A ., Ph .D .(London ), Economic and Statistical Adviser , Ministry 
of Food and Agriculture (Agriculture ), Government of India , 

Shri P , M . Damry, IA.S ., Labour Commissioner, Bombay. 
Shri S . K . Haldar , I.C .S., Labour Commissioner, Calcutta . 

Shri J. M . Lobbo Prabhu , I.C . S ., Secretary to the Government of Madras , 
Development Department Madras. 

Shri O . N . Misra , I.A .S ., Labour Commissioner, Kanpur, 

Shri R . S . Pande, Secretary to the Government of Bihar, Labour Department, 
Patna . 

Shri Ram Gopal Tewari, Chlef Parliamentary Secretary , Government of 
Madhya Pradesh , Nagpur. 

Shri Abdul Lateef Razvi , Labour Commissioner, Hyderabad . 
Shri B . S. Pattaswamy, B .A ., B .L ., Labour Commissioner, Bangalore. 
Shri H , P . Duara , B .Sc. ( Leeds), Labour Commissioner, Shillong . 
Shri G . W . Balchandani, Labour Commissioner, Ambala . 
Shri P . N . Krishna Pillal, Labour Commissioner, Trivandrum . 
Shri S . N . Shukla, Labour Commissioner, Jaipur, Rajasthan . 
Dr. V . K . Chopra, M . A ., Ph . D ., Director of Industry, Vindhya Pradesh , Rewa. 
Shri N . C . Subaya , Assistant Commissioner and District Magistrate, Coorg . 


Representatives of Employers 


Representatives of Workers 


Scheduled employments which they represent 


PARTII-SEC3] 


Mr. D . May Artiodell , Executive Officer , Em 

ployers Association of Northern India , 
Kaopar . 


Mr. Tofail Ahmed , Kothi of late Shri Yusif Imam , Employment in woolled carpet making or shawl 
Hoballs Wellesli Ganj, Mirzapur. 

Feaving establishments . 


Shri A . Gopalakrishnayya , Rice Mil Owner , Shri E . R . Kalyanarama Iger, Ranipety North 
Godivada Krishna District , Mactras State . 

Aroot District, Madras State . 


Employment in rice mil , flour mill or dal mill. 


Shri Manoharbhai Patel, Vice President Besdi Shri G . M . Thayera , President, Independent Employment in any tobacco manufactory . 

Marchants Asociation , C /o Chhotabhai Jeth - Labour Party Bidi Workers Union , Nagpur. 
bbai & Co , Gondia . 


Mr. H . F . Clark , C .LE , Labour Advisor, Indian Shri K . P . Tripathi, M . A ., B .L ., President, Employment in any Plantation , 
Tea Association, Shilong . 

LN . T. U .C ., Assam Branch , Dibrugarh . 
Mr. U S . Halderwood , President , Association of Shri B . K . Nair, President, Kerala Branch of the 

Ditto . 
Plantens of Trayanoore , Kottayam . 

LN . T . U . C ., Aleppy . 
Shri S . A . NarielHala , C /o Tata Ou Mills , Bombay Mr. Philiph H . D Souza , Clo Standard Vacuum Employment in any oil mill. 
House , Bruce Street, Fort , Bombay , 

Oil Co ., Wadala Installations, Wadala Bombay . 


PHEGAZETTEOFINDIA,MAY3,1952 


Shri C . D . Barfivala , MA , LL . B ., Director , Shri B . N . Rathod , President, Bombay Sweepers Employment under any Local Authority , 

Local Self Government Institute , 11- Elpbin - Union , 140 , Arthur Road , Bombay . 

stone Circle , Bombay . 
Shri Brij Mohan Lal, I.S.E ., Chief Engineer , Shri Lalla Kahar, S /o Sarja Kahar, Village Employment on road construction or in building 
P . W . D . (Bulding & Roads Branch ), Simia Kuthaliya , Rewa District. 

operations . 
Sardar Pratap Singh , Secretary , C . P . W . D , Con - Shri R . D . Saxena , Secretary , I.N . T . U . C ., Delhi Employment in stone breaking or stope crushing. 

tractors Association , 3 - 4 , Connaught Place , Branch , 5, Edward Square, New Dothi. 

New Delhi. 
Shri A . M . Arathoon , Clo Shellac Manufacturing Shri Haripada Chatterjee , Post Jalda, District Employment in any Lac Manufactory. 
Association , Jaldo (Manbhru Dist .) 

Manbbum . 
Shri Uma Charan Lal, Ramchand Kutir , Post Shri Ramesh Chandra Vyas, Presideat, Indian Employment in any Mica Works, 
Bargande (Giridih ) . 

National Trade Union Congress , (Rajasthan 
Branch ) Jaipur, 


- - 


967 


708 


Representatives of Employers 


Representatives of Workers 


Scheduled mployments which they represetat 


Shri N . C . Ghosh , Director - General of Trans 

portation , Home ( Transport) Department 
Writers ? Buildings , Calcutta . 


Shri Bariadra Gupta , Representative of the Employment in Public Motor Transporte 
State Transport Employees Union , Home 
( Transport) Department, Writers Buildings, 
Calautta 


Shri A . J . Hardcastle , Messrs . Cooper Allan & Shri Sarya Prasad Avasthi, Indian National Employment in tannaries and leather manufac 
Company, Kanpur. 

Trade Union Congress (U . P . Brazoh ), Khalasitory . 

Lines, Kanpur . 
Shri Radhakrishna Das, Keshorpur P .O ., Cuttack Shri Niamani Rautray, Clo Prajatantra , Cuttack . Employment in Agriculture . 


1 . 


Ditto . 


Shri N . R . Samiappa Mudaliar , Mirasdar , Presi- Shri G . Narayanaswamy Naidu , Mimicipal Coun 

dent , District Agricultural Association , Nedum cillor & Kisan Loader , Mayavaram ( Tanjore 
balam , Tanjore Distt., South Indian 

Distt. ), South Indian 
Shri J . Raghottam Reddy , Deshmukh, Shri Shanker Rio Chavan , Secretary , Congress, 

Khatamam (Warangal District), Hyderabad Office , Nanded , Hyderabad State , 

State . 
Shri Surendra Singh Majithis , Sardarnagar , Shri Pool Singh , Vakil , Saharanpur . 

Gorakhpar . 


Ditto . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,MAY3,1082 


Ditto . 


INO. LW1- 24 ( 78 ). ] 


[PARTII—Sec.3 


PART - 11 _ S C. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ,-MAY 3, 5962 


New Delhi, the 29th April 1952 
S . R . O . 799. - - The following draft of an amendment to the Coal Mines Labour Wel 
fare Office Establishment (Contributory Provident Fund ) Rules, 1951 , which it is 
proposed to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Coal 
Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1947 (XXXII of 1947) , is published as required by 
sub - section ( 1 ) of the said section for the information of all persons likely to be 
affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken into con 
sideration on or after the 2nd June 1952. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the Central 
Government 

Draft Amendment 
In the said Rules 

In Rule 4 
( a ) in the second proviso to rule 4 , the words from the monthly subscrip 

tion to paid in full shall be omitted ; 
(b ) after the second proviso the following proviso shall be inserted , namely :- - 
" Provided further that those employees serving in the Malaria Institute of 

India in connection with the Anti-malarla operations in the Coal 
fields who were brought under the administrative control of the Com 
missloner with effect from the 1st March 1951, may also be allowed 
to join the Provident Fund with retrospective effect from the date 
of their joining the Institute " . 


2 . For rule 5 , the following rule shall be substituted namely : 
" 5 . Nomination .-- ( 1 ) A subscriber shall , as soon as may be after joining 

the Provident Fund , sent to the Commissioner a nomination conterring 
on one or more persons the right to receive the amount that may 
stand to his credit in the Provident Fund in the event of his death 
before that amount has become payable , or having become payable 

has not been paid : 
Provided that if, at the time of making the nomination , the subscriber has a 

family , the nomination shall not be in favour of any person or persons 

other than the members of his family . 
( 2 ) If a subscriber nominates more than one person under sub - rule ( 1 ) he 

shall specify in the nomination the amount or share payable to each 
of the nominees in such manner as to cover the whole of the amount 

that may stand to his credit in the Fund at any time. 
( 3) Every nomination shall be in such one of the Forms set forth in the 

first schedule as is appropriate in the circumstances. 
(4 ) A subscriber may at any time cancel a nomination by sending a notice 

in writing to the Accounts Officer. 
Provided that the subscriber shall along with such notice send a fresh 

nomination made in accordance with the provisions of this rule . 
(5 ) A subscriber may provide in a nomination 
( a ) in respect of any specified nominee that in the event of his predeceas 

ing the subscriber , the right conferred upon that nominee shall pass 

to such other person as may be specified in the nomination ; 
(b ) that the nomination shall become Invalid in the event of the happen 

ing of a contingency specified therein ; provided that if at the time 
of making the nomination the subscriber has no family , he shall 
provide in the nomination that it shall become invalid in the event 

of his subsequently acquiring a family . 
( 6 ) Immediately on the death of a nominee in respect of whom no special 

provision has been made in the nomination under clause ( a ) of sub 
rule ( 5 ) or on the occurrence of any event by reason of which the 
nomination becomes invalid in pursuance of clause ( b ) of sub - rule 


: 770 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1952 


[ PART II - SEC. 3 


(8 ) of the proviso thereto , the subscriber shall send to the Accounts 
Officer a notico in writing cancelling the nominations together with a 

fresh nomination made in accordance with the proviso of this rule . 
( 7) Every nomination made, and every notice of cancellation given by a 

subscriber shall, to the extent that it is valid , take effect on the date 

on which it is received by the Accounts Ollicer " . 
3 . To clause (b ) of sub - rule (1 ) of rule 8 , the following proviso shall be added , 
nåmely : 
" Provided that in the case of an employee who under these Rules is allowed 

to join the Provident Fund with retrospective effect, such monthly 
subscription shall not be less than ten per cent of his pay until all 

arears of such subscriptions are paid up in full," 
4. To sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 10 , the following proviso shall be added , namely : 
" Provided that in case of employees who are allowed to join the Provident 

Fund with retrospective effect such contribution shall not be less 
than ten per cent of the subscriber s emoluments until all arears of 

such contributions are paid up in full” . 
5. In clause (b ) of rule 16 , for the words three years , the words five years 
shall be substituted . 

6 . For the FIRST SCHEDULE to the Rules, the following SCHEDULE shall be 
substituted . 

" FIRST SCHEDULE (see rule 5 ( 3) ] . 

FORMS OF NOMINATION 
I. When the subscriber has a family and wishes to nominate one member 
thereof. 

I hereby nominate the person mentioned below , who is a member of my 
family as defined in rule 2 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Omce Establishment 
(Contributory Provident Fund ) Rules , 1951, to receive the amount that may stand 
to my credit in the Fund , in the event of my death before that amount has become 
payable or having become payable , has not been paid : 


Age 


Namo and address 
of the nomineo 


Rolationship with 

subsoriber 


Contingonoles on 
the happening of 
which the nomina 
tion shall become 
invalid . 


Name, address and 
relationship of the 
person , if any, to 
whom the right of 
the nominee shall 
page in the event of 
his predeceasing the 
gubgoribor, 


Dated this 

day of 
at 

Signature of Subscriber.. .. ... . . 
Two witnesses to signature 
1 . . .. . .. . . . 
2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 

1 . When the subscriber has a family and wishes to nominate more than one 
member thereof . 

I hereby nominate the persons mentioned below , who are members of my 
family as defined in rulę 2 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Office Establishment 
( Contributory Provident Fund ) Rules, 1951, to receive the amount that may stand 
to my credit in the Fund , in the event of my death before that amount has become 
payable , or having become payable has not been paid and direct that the said 


PART 11 - Sec. 3 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1982 


771 


amount shall be distributed among the said persons in the manner shown below 
against their names : - - 


Naine and 
address of 
nomlneho 


Relationship Age 

with 
| subscriber 


Annount or share | * * Contingenolos | Name, address 
of acoumulations on the happening land rolationship of 
to be paid to 040111 of which the the person , if any , 

nomination shall to whom the right 
beootno invalid I of the nomineo 

shall page in the 
event of his pre 
deoaging the 
subsoribor 


Dated this 


day of 


at 


Signature of Subscriber ...... ... 
Two witnesses to signature 
1 . .. .. . ... 
2 .. .. .. .. ... .. 

* NOTE - -- This column should be Aled in so as to cover the whole amount that 
may stand to the credit of the subscriber in the Fund at any time, 

III . When the subscriber has no family and wishes to nominate one person . 

I, having no family as defined in rule 2 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Office 
Establishment (Contributory Provident Fund ) Rules , 1951, hereby nominate the person 
mentioned below to receive the amount that may stand to my credit in the Fund , 
in the event of my death before that amount has become payable , or having be 
come payable has not been paid : 


Name and address Rulationship with 
of nomineos 

subscriber 


Age 


* * Contingenoles on Name, address and 

tho happening of rolationship of tho 
whioh the nomi, person , if any, to 
nation shall be . | whom the right of 
oome invalid the nomince shall 

page in tho ovont of 
hls prodeceaalng tho 
vabaribor 


Dated this 


day of 


at 


III + 


I 


Signature of Subscriber ... 
Two witnesses to signature 
1 . .... . 
2 .. ... ... .. 

* *NOTE . - - Where a subscriber who has no family makes a nomination , he shall 
specify in the column that the nomination become invalid in the event of his subse 
quently acquiring a family . 

IV . When the subscriber has no family and wishes to nominate more than one 
person , 

I, having no family as defined in rule 2 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare 
Once (Contributory Provident Fund ) Rulles , 1951, hereby nominate the persons 


774 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 3, 1992 


( PART 11 - Sec. 3 


mentioned below to receive the amount that may stand to my credit in the Fund , 
in the event of my death before that amount has become payable, or having be 
come payable has not been paid and direct that the said persons in the manner shown 
below against their names : - 


Name and 
address of 
nomineos 


Relationship Age 

with 
| gubsoriber 


" Amount or phare * * Contingencies Name, addrons and 
of accumulations on the happening relationship of the 
to be paid to of which the porton , if any , to 

domination shall whom the right of 
become invalid the nomineo gball 

paas in the event 
of bla predeodaging 
the subscriber . 


enoh 


Dated this 


day of 


19 


at 


Signature of Subscriber ........ 


Two witnesses to signature 


NOTE - - This column should be Alled in so as to cover the whole amount that 
may stand to the credit of the subscriber in the Fund at any time. 

*NOTE . Where a subscriber who has no family makes a nomination , he shall 
specify in this column that the nomination shall become inyalid in the event of 
his subsequently acquiring a family . " 

(No. M .1 ( 12 )51. ] 

P . N . SHARMA, Under Secy. 
New Delhi, the 26th April 1952 
S . R . O . 800 . - In pursuance of section 11 of the Employees State Insurance 
Act. 1948 (XXXIV of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby accepts the resigna 
tion of Shri V . M . Tarkunde, Bar - at -Law , 8 , Ratilal Mansions, Parikh Street, 
Girgaum , Bombay 4 , of his office of member of the Employees State Insurance 
Corporation constituted under sections 3 and 4 of the said Act . 

[No. SS. 121 (53 ) . ] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 28th April 1952 
S . R . O . 801. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the Imperial Bank of India and its workmen in respect of 
the matter specified in tho Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the dispute 
for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Indus 
trial Disputee Act , 1947 (XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby refers the 
said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal at Calcutta constituted 
under section 7 of the said Act. 

Schedule 
Whether the dismissal from service of Shri S . K . Bhimasena Rao from the 
Bangalore City Branch of the Bank on or about the 13th August 1949 was justi 
fled and , if not, what relief should be granted to him . 

[No. LR .100 ( 20 ). ] 
S . NEELAKANTAM , Dy. Secy . 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE MANAGER GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS, NEW DELHI 
AND PUBLIGHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI, 1984 


