REGISTERED No. D . 23 


. 


2 


The Gazette hice 


of India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 19 ] 


NEW DELHI, SATURDAY , MAY 12, 1956 


NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 4th 
May 1956 : - - 


188ue ! 
No . 1 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


131 | 


129 / S . R . O . 1013 , dated the Ministry of Finance Amendments made in tho Not . 
30th April 1956 . (Revenue Division ) fication No. 13 - Customs, 

dated the 28th February 1953. 
130 | $ .R . O . 1014, dated the Ministry of Connoroc | Fixation of the price of ten for 
IstMy1956 and Industry . 

the purpose of Item 5 in the 
Second Schedule to the Indian 

Tariff Act, 1934 . 
S .R . O . 1015 , dated the Election Commission , Election Petition No. 30 of 1954 . 
18th April 1956 . 

India, 
132 .S .R . O . 1016 , dated the Governm :nt of Ajmer . Amendments made in the rules 
At May 1956 . 

published in Chief Commis 
sioner s Notification No. 613 
586 dated 28th May 1887 
and Nɔ. 4 / 1 /50 - L . S . G . datod 
the 19th June 1951 in so far 
as they apply to the District 

Board , State of Ajmer. 
133 S. R . O . 1017 , dated the Election Commission , Blection Petition No. 7 of 1955 . 
23rd April 1996 . 

India . 
| S .R . O . 1018 , dated the Ministry of Food and The Tripura Foodgrain . 
1 and May 1956 . Agriculture , 

(movement ) Control Order 

1956 . 
S .R .O . 1058 , dared the Ministry of Finance ) Amendment in the notificatio 
3rd May 1956 , (Revenue Division ) No. II- Customs, dated te 

12th August 1946 . 


L24 


136 


S .R . O . 1059 , dated the 

4th May 1956 


Ministry of Finance . 


The Central Government directo 

that except with permission 
of the Reserve Bank no person 
shall bring or send into the 
States any silver colns 
current in the Tibet region 
of China, 


( 641 ) 


642 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1958 


[PART II , Sec. 8 


Inel 


No. and dato 


Issued by 


Subject 


No. 


137 


S .R . O . 1060, dated the Ministry of Food And 
4th May 1956 . 

Agriculture . 


The powers for the purpose of 

allowing deduction in the 
minimum price of sugarcane 
shall be exercisable by tho 
canc Commissioner of Uttar 
Pradesh , 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes 


PART - Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Governmont 

of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorities 
( other than the Chief Commissioners ) . 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1956 
S .R . O , 1078 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Rule 1 of Order XXVII 
In the First Schedule to the Code of Clyil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908 ) , the 
Central Government hereby directs that the following further amendment shall 
be made in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Law 
No. S . R . O . 1661, dated the 1st September, 1953, relating to the appointment of 
officers to sign or verify plaints and written statements in suits in any court of 
civil jurisdiction by or against the Central Government, namely : - 

In the Schedule to the said notification , in Part VI , which relates to tho 
Ministry of Finance, under the head " Revenue Division , after the entry " All 
Collectors of Customs" , the entry " Collector of Land Customs, Calcutta " shall be 
inserted . 

[No. 7 .28 - 1/ 63 - G .] 
B . N . LOKUR, Joint Secy . 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS, 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1079 . - In pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 2 ) , of section : 
of the Abducted Persons (Recovery and Restoration ) Act, 1949 , LXV of 1949, the 
Central Government hereby notifles, for the information of all concerned , that the 
Central Muslim Transit Camp, Jullundur, established in Punjab ( India ) , shall 
be a camp for the reception and temporary detention of abducted persons recover 
ed in India . 

[No, AP -780 /86 .1 
C . M . SHARMA, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 2nd May 1956 
S .R . O . 1080. - In pursuance of clause ( a ) of sub -section ( 1 ) and sub - section ( 4 ) 
of section 8 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1994 ( II of 1934 ) , the Central 


PART II - SEC . 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


643 


Government hereby re - appoints Shri Ram Nath as a Deputy Governor of the 
Reserve Bank of India for a term of three years , with effect from the 9th 
July , 1956 

[NO. F .3 ( 10 ) - FI / 56. ] 
K . P . BISWAS, Under Secy , 


(Department of Company Law Administration ) 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1956 
S . R . O . 1981 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by clausę ( a ) of sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 448 of the Companies Act , 1956 ( I of 1956 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Mr, Chandrika Prasad Sinha, Deputy Registrar of the High 
Court at Patna, ex -officio , to be the Omcial Liquidator attached to that Court, as 
a part - time officer , 

[ No . 2 (12 ) -CL - III /56.] 
New Delhi, the 3rd May 1956 
S .R . O . 1682. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 448 of the Companies Act, 1956 ( I of 1956 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri Ranjit Rai, the Registrar of the High Court of Punjab 
at Chandigarh , ex - officio , to be the Omcial Liquidator attached to that Court, as 
a part - time officer , 

[No. 2 ( 16 ) -CL - III / 66 .] 
New Delhi, the 5th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1083 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) , of the section 448 , of the Companies Act, 1956 ( I of 1956 ) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby appoints Shri Kanhiyalal Bohra, Deputy Registrar , High Court 
of Rajasthan at Jalpur , to be the Omcial Liquidator attached to the Court of 
Judicial Commissioner for Ajmer , as a part -time officer. 

[ No. 2 ( 13 ) -CL - III /56 .] 


S . R . O . 1084.- - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 448, of the Companies Act, 1956 , ( I of 1956 ) , the Certral Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri Kanhiyalal Bhora, Deputy Registrar of the High Court 
of Rajasthan at Jaipur, ex -offcio , to be the Official Liquidator attached to that 
Court, sitting both at Jaipur and Jodhpur, as a part- time officer, 

[No. 2 (13) -CL -III /56 .] 
SHIV CHARAN SINGH , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION ) 

CORRIGENDUM 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 12th May 1956 
8 .R . O . 1085. — In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Finance (Revenue Division ) , No . S . R .O . 495 dated the 1st March , 1956 , published 
at pages 382 - 387 in Part II, Section 3 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary , of the 
same date, 
( I) In Annexure I, in the table relating to Dimension for " 9.0 " In the second 

column against " Thread on cap , read " 9 . 5 " , 
(II ) In Annexure II, 
(a ) in paragraph (2 ) (b ) (tv ), for cased occurring in the first line, read 

" eased : 
(b ) in paragraph (5 ) ( ii ), for ‘0 5 occurring in the second line, read "0.09 ; 

and 
(c ) in paragraph (5 ) (iii ), for + 0.8 , occurring in the second line, read 

[NO. 21. ] 
W . SALDANHA , Dy . Secy . 


+ 0 . 3 " , 


644 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


[ PART II _ SEC. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1958 
S . R . O . 1086 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) , of section 3 , of the Indian Medical Council Act , 1933, (XXVII, of 1933 ) , the 
Central Government hereby nominates Dr. K . M . Lal, Director of Medical and 
Health Services , Uttar Pradesh , to be a member of the Medical Council of India , 
with effect from the 10th April, 1956 , vice Lt. col. (Honorary Colonel ) , A . N . 
Chopra , resigned . 

[No, F .5 -51/ 56 - M .I.) 
K , BIHARI, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 

( Transport Wing ) 

MERCHANT SHIPPING 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1958 
S . R .O . 1087, — In pursuance of clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 213B of 
the Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 (XXI of 1923 ) , the Central Government 
hereby declares that the Governments of Brazil and of Venezuela have accepted 
the Safety Convention as defined in clause ( d ) of section 213A of the said Act, 
that is to say , the Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea signed in London on 
the tenth day of June, nineteen hundred and fortyeight, as amended from time 
to time. 

[No. 46 -MA (4 ) / 86 . ) 
S . K . GHOSH , Dy . Secy . 


( Transport Wing) 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 3rd May 1956 
S . R . O . 1088 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( h ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of Section 8 read with sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 13A ( 1 ) of the Madras 
Port Trust Act, 1905 (Madras Act II of 1905 ) , the Central Government hereby 
appoints the following persons as trustees on the Board of Trustees of the Port 
of Madras. 

1 . Shri N , Vijiarangam . 
2 . Shri C . Govindarajulu . 

Representatives of labour . 

[No. 13C -PI( 11 ) / 50 . ) 
K . NARAYANAN , Under Secy . 


( Transport Wing ) 

PORTS 
New Delhi, the 4th May 1956 


S .R . O . 1089. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
8 of the Indian Ports Act , 1908 (XV of 1908 ) , the Central Government is pleased 
to authorise Shri P . P . Rye, Pilot, Kandla Port to pilot vessels upto 5000 tons 
gross ( excepting tankers and vessels loaded with explosives ) during day light 
only in and out of the Port of Kandla . 

[ No. 2 - PII( 46 ) / 88.] 
D . A . R . WARRIAR, Under Secy . 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


645 


MINISTRY OF PRODUCTION 

New Delhi, the 2nd May 1956 
S .R . O . 1090 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section 2 of the 
Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 ( 1 of 1894 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following amendment in the notifications of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Production , No. S . R . O , 564 , dated 3 - 3 - 1956 , No. S . R . O . 
756 , dated 31- 3 - 1956 , NO , S . R .O . 757 , dated 31 - 3 - 1956 and No. S .R .O . 929, dated 
9 - 4 - 1956, namely : 

In para 3 of the said notifications for the words Chief Mining Engineer, State 
Collieries, Ministry of Production , Government of India , and his staff and work 
men , the following words shall be substituted , namely : — 
" the Chief Mining Engineer, State Collieries, Ministry of Production , Gov 

ernment of India , the Director, Geological Survey of India , Ministry 
of Natural Resources & Scientific Research , Government of India , 
the Director , Indian Bureau of Mines , Ministry of Natural Resources 
and Scientific Research , Government of India , and their staff and 
workmen " . 

[No. C2- 7 (5 ) /65.] 
S . R . O . 1091. -- In pursuance of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 15 of the Coal Mines 
( Conservation and Safety ) Act, 1952 (XII of 1982 ) , read with rule 20 of the 
Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety ) Rules, 1984, the Central Government 
hereby constitutes a Technical Advisory Committee (Mining ) which shall 
consist of the following members, namely : 

Chairman 
Shri M . L . Shome, Chief Mining Engineer /Member Secretary Coal Board . 

Members 
Shri G . S . Jabbi, Deputy Chief Inspector of Mines in India , Dhanbad an 

Inspector nominated by the Chief Inspector of Mines . 
Shri S . G . Krishnan , Mining Adviser, Government Railways. 
Shri D . R . S . Mehta , Assistant Director , Geological Survey of India 
Nominee of the Director of Geological Survey of India . 

Coopted Members 
Shri S . C . Ghosh , M / s. Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd ., 
Shri A . A . Beard , M / 8. Bird & Co., Representatives of the mining interests . 
Shri S . Mukherjee, Inspecting Officer, Coal Board , will act as Secretary to 
the Committee . 

[No. 25 -CI ( 22 ) / 55 .] 


S .R . O . 1092 . — In exercise of the Power conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
15 of the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety ) Act, 1952 (XII of 1952 ) , read 
with rule 21 of the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety ) Rules , 1954, the Central 
Government hereby constitutes an Advisory Committee on Stowing, which shall 
consist of the following persons, namely : 

Chairman 
Shri P . M . Nayak, I. C . S ., Chairman , Coal Board , 

Members 
Shri S . S . Grewal, Chief Inspector of Mines in India , 
Shri A , N . Lahiri, Director , Fuel Research Institute, 
Shri W . H . S . Michelmore, 
M / g, Bird and Co ., 
Shri R . P . Rosser , 
M / s . Bengal Coal Co. Ltd ., Representatives nominated by the Indian Mining 

Association , 
Shri Amritlal J. Chanchant, 135 - Canning Street, Calcutta, Representative 

nominated by the Indian Mining Federation , 


646 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1958 


[ PART II — Src . 3 


Shri Rasciklal Worah , 135, Canning Street, Calcutta , Representative 

nominated by the Indian Colliery Owners Association . 
Shri M . L . Shome, Chief Mining Engineer of the Board , has been nominated 
by the Chairman , as the Secretary to the said Committee. 

[No. 26- CI (31) / 55 .] 
A . NANU , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1968 
S . R . O . 1093 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (i ) of section 
8 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , the 
Central Government, in consultation with the Custodian General of Evacuee 
Property , hereby appoints , for the State of Delhi, Shri P . N . Sehgal, Regional 
Settlement Commissioner , Delhi, as Custodian of Evacuee Property with effect 
from the afternoon of the 7th April 1956 . 

[No, XVI -21 (17) / 56 - Prop. II .] 

J. J . KARAM , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 1st May 1958 
S . R . O . 1094 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
( 44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri G . B . K . Hooja , I. A . S ., 
as Regional Settlement Commissioner , for the purpose of performing the 
functions assigned to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the 
date he took charge of his office . 

[No. 3 / 11 / 88 - SII. ) 


S . R . O . 1095 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1964 ( 44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri H . R . Nair , as Additional 
Settlement Commissioner , for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such commissioner by or under the said Act . 

[No. 5 / 12 / 56 - SII.] 


New Delhi , the 2nd May 1038 
S . R . O . 1096 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1964 ( 44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Dwarka Dass Surias 
Regional Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he 
took charge of his post. 

[No. 6 / 13 / 56 - SII ( II ) .] 


New Delhi, the Bth May 1956 
S . R . O . 1097 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
9 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 (No. 12 of 1954 ) , the 
Central Government hereby appoints Servaghri Sardari Lal Jain , M . R . Bhagat and 
R . N . Dhingra , as Settlement Omcers for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such officers by or under the said Act, with effect from the date they 
took charge of their office . 

The Central Government, also appoints the said officers as Additional Settle 
ment Commissioners for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
oficers by or under the said Act, with effect from the same date . 

[ No. 6 /6 /86 - SII(I).j 
T . R . CHOPRA, Under Secy . 


PART II — Szc 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


647 


(Оfice of the Chief Settlement Oommissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1988 
S .R . O . 1098 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Sub -section ( 2 ) of 
Section 10 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 . (XII of 
1954 ) , read with rule 99 of the rules framed under section 40 , of the Displaced 
Persons (Compensation and Rehabitation ) Act, 1954 , ( 44 of 1954 ) , I delegate to 
Shri Mehar Singh Chaddah , Settlement Commissioner , with effect from 30th April , 
1956 , the following powers of the Chief Settlement Commissioner, namely : 
1. Power to allocate Rehabilitation Grant Applications to the Settlement 

Oficers by general or special order under - section ( 1 ) of section 4 of 
the said Act . 


2 . Power to require a Settlement Officer to appoint one or more persons to 

advise him in any proceeding pending before him , under sub - section 
(2 ) of Section 6 of the said Act . 


3 . Power to transfer any Rehabilitation Grant Application pending before 

a Settlement Oncer to another Settlement Omcer under Section 7 of 
tho said Act. 


4 . Power to call fur the record of any case decided by the Settlement Oficer 

and pass order in the case under provision to sub - section ( 3 ) of 
Section 4 of the said Act . 

[ No. 14 (11) CSC / Judl-56 .] 

L , J . JOHNSON , Jt. Secy . 
and Chlef Settlement Commissioner . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 
New Delhi, the 18t May 1956 


S . R . O . 1099. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby appoints , 
for a period of one year , the officers mentioned in column 1 of the Table annexed 
hereto as conciliation officers for the quarrying industry in the area specified in 
the corresponding entry in column 2 of the said Table. 

TABLI 


Designation of officer. 


Torritorial jurisdiction . 


State of Madhya Bharat. 


1. Conciliation Officer, Madhya 

Bharat, Ujjain . 


2. Assistant Commissloner of 

Labour, Shimoga Division 
Bhadravathi, 


Simoga District in the State of 
Mysoro . 


[ No. L .R . 1 ( 25 ) /65 .] 


New Delhi, the 5th May 1936 


S .R . O . 1100 . - In pursuance of paragraph 3 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund 
Scheme published with the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour, No. PF - 16 (5 ) 48 , dated the 11th December , 1948 , the Central Govern 
ment hereby nominates Shri O . V . Ramadorai, Deputy Secretary to the Govern 
ment of India , Ministry of Finance, to the Board of Trustees and makes the 


648 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1958 


[PART II — Sec. 3 


following amendment in the notifcation of the Government of India in tho 
Ministry of Labour, No. S .R .O . 2227, dated the 5th October , 1966 , namely : 
In the said notification , for the entry " ( 2 ) Shri N . V . Venkataraman , 

Deputy Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Finance " . 
the entry " ( 2 ) Shri O . V . Ramadorai, Deputy Secretary to the 
Government of India , Ministry of Finance , New Delhi" shall be 
substituted . 

[No. PF -4 (26 ) / 66.) 
New Delhi, the 7th May 1958 
8 . R .O . 1101. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the All India Indugtrial Tribunal (Colliery Disputes ) Calcutta in the matter of an 
application under section 33A of the said Act from Shri Gobardhan Napit, of 
Bhowra Collery , 


ALL INDIA INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (COLLIERY DISPUTES ), CALCUTTA 

APPLICATION No. 48 OF 1955 v / s . 33A OF THE I. D . ACT , 1947. 


SENT : 


Shri J . N . Majumdar , Chairman , 
Shri S . P . Chopra, Member . 
Shri T. N . Mallappa, Member. 

PARTES; 
Shri Gobardhan Napit . Munshi, No . 4 Incline, Bhowra Colllery . 

C / 0 . Eastern Coal Co . Collieries Workers Union , P . O . Jealgora , 
Manbhum , Blhar . - Applicant . 

Va. 
The Agent, Bhowra Colliery , P . O . Jealgora, Manbhum , Bihar. 
Opposite Party . 

APPEARANCES : 
Shri Lalit Burman . - for the Applicant. 
Shri S . P , Saha, Law Officer , assisted by Shri Madan Lal Pandit, Wel 
fare Oficer of the Co . — for the Opp . Party . 

AWARD 


Dated , the 29th March , 1956 . 


This is an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
Aled by Shri Gobardhan Napit, Munshi No. 4 Lncline, Bhowra Colliery seeking 
relief against his dismissal from the employment of the opposite party . The 
opposite party has filed a reply statement. It is not necessary to go into the 
merits of the case as the parties have settled the dispute as follows : 
The Applicant accepts retrenchment on the following terms: 

(1 ) That the Company will give him a clean certificate . 
( 2 ) That Shri Madan Lal, the Welfare Oncer will try his best to procure a 

job for the applicant. 
( 3 ) That in full and Anal settlement of the applicant s claim , the compan 

undertakes to pay him Rs. 1100 / - on his calling at the Colliery ofico 

at any time during office hours on the 29th March , 1956 . 
In the result we pass an award in terms of the above. 

( Sd.) J. N . MAJUMDAR, Chairman . 
( Sd .) S . P . CHOPRA , Member. 
( Sd . ) T . N . MALLAPPA , Member . 

[No. LRII - 65 - 2 ( 2 ) / B6 - II. ] 


PART II SEC . 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , 


Y 12 , 1966 


549 


New Delhi, the 8th May 1956 
S . R . O . I102. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947) , 
the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the All India Industrial Tribu 
Dal (Colliery Disputes ), Calcutta in the matter of an application under section 33A of the said Act 
from Shri Banwari Dhobi and others of Banladih Workshop of Giridih Colliery . 

ALL INDIA INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (COLLIERY DISPUTES ), CALCUTTA 


APPLICATION No . 6 OF 1955 (U /s 33A OF THE ACT ) 


PRESENT : 


Shri J. N . Majumdar — Chairman . 
Shri S . P . Chopra - Member. 
Shri T . N .Mallappe - Member. 


PARTIES : 


Name 


Designation 


Address 


Applicant 


I Banwari Dhobl : 


: 


: 


: 


: 


: 


Do. 


Mechanic, 
Banladih 
Workshop 
of Giridih 
Colliery 


The Coal 
Workers 

Union 
Giridih 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 
Do. 


2 Chamroo Dohar . 
3 Durga Hazam 
4 Govind Gope 
5 Butto Dusadh 
6 Kahar Gope 
7 Bux Meah 
8 AkufMeah 
9 Misri Hazam 
10 Madhu Das 
II Chunak Şekh 
12 Kannu Teli 
13 Jagar Nath Hazam 
14 S . D . Migra 
15 Jagdish Laber 
16 Kamaleshwar Prasad 
17 Muhabir Dhobi 
18 Ram Kishun Kumer 
19 Monilal Lohar , 
20 Chintamani Lohar 
21 Ram Kishun Lohar 

Banu Barhi . .. 
23 Dhananjoy Prosed 
24 Dasarat Mcah . 
25 Pir Bux Mean 
26 Bhatu Gope 
27 Gasto Lal Lohar . 


Do. 
Do. 


Do . 
Do. 


Do. 
Do. 


. 
. 


Do. 


Do . 
Do. 
Do . 
Do . 


Do. 
Do. 


Do. 


DO 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


Do. 
Do. 
Do. 


Do. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1958 


[PART II - Sec . 8 


Vs. 


1. The Chief Mining Engineer , Rallway Board , I, Council House Strect, Calcutta. 
2. Superintendent of Collieries , Giridih - -Opp. Party 


APPEARANCE : 


AWARD 


Dated the 20th February, 1956 


This is an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 by Shri Ban 
wari Dhobi & 26 others against the Chief Mining Engineer, Railway Board , and the Colliery Sup 
erlatendent, Giridih Collicrics . A reply statement has been filled by tho Superintendent of Col 
lierics , Giridih . But it is not necessary to go into the merits of the dispute as the applicants have 
addressed a petition to the Tribunal geeking its permission to withdraw the application as they do 
not desire to contest the case. The Additional Chief Mining Engineer, State Collieries has writ 
ten to say that there is no objection to the Tribunal passing an Award permitting the withdrawal 
as desired by the applicants. Under the circumstances , we dismiss the application . 


(Sd .) J. N . MAJUMDAR , Chairman . 


(sd .) S. P . CHOPRA , Member , 


( Sd.) T . N . MALLAPPA, Member . 


[ No . LR II- 55 -2 (2)/56 - 1.) 


I 


R 


. C . SAKSENA , Under Secy. 


New Delhi , the 1st May 1956 


S . R . O . 1108 . The following draft of an amendment to the Coal Mines Labour 
Welfare Fund Rules , 1949 , which the Central Government proposes to make in 
exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare 
Fund Act, 1947 (XXXII of 1947) , is published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
the said section for the information of all persons llkely to be affected thereby 
and notice is hereby given that the draft wlii be taken into consideration on or 
after the 10th June 1956 . 


Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any pergon in respect 
of the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 


Draft Amendment 


In sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 21 of the said rules, for the words " any new welfare 
and housing scheme", the words " any welfare and housing scheme" shall be 
substituted . 


[No. CLFR /AM (MI - 1 ( 1 ) 56 .) 
P , D . COMMAR , Under Secy . 


PAHT II - SEC. 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1966 


1 


651 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi the 28th April 1956 
S . R . O . 1104. - In exercise of the powers conferred on meby clause 20 of the Cotton Control Order . 
1955 and with the previous sanction of the Central Government, I, V . Nanjappa Textile Com 
missioner, hereby authorise , in supersepsion of the notifications of the Textile Commissioner No 
S . R . O . 875 dated the 7th November, 1950 and No. S . R . O . 3620 dated the 30th November. 1os . 
cach of the officerg specified in column ( 2 ) of the Schedule appended to this notification to ex 
crcise on my behalf the functions and powers of the Textile Commissioner under the clause 
the said Order specified in the corresponding entry in column (3 ) of that Schedule . 


SCHEDULE 


Designations of Officers. 


Clause . 


(2) 


3 . 


Cotton Adviser, Office of the Textile Commissioner , Bombay , 5 , 6 and 70 ) 
( 1) Cotton Adviser , Office of the Textile Commissioner , Bombay . | 12 and 1301) 
2 ) All Licencing Authorities appointed by the various State 

Governments . 
(3 ) All Collectors of Districts in the Madras State. 

All Revenue Divisional Officers in the Madras State , 

The Sub - Collector , Pollachi lo the Madras State . 
(6 ) The Commissioner, Civil Supplies, Government of Rajas 

than , Jaipur . 
G ) The Additional Director of Civil Supplics , Government of 

Patiala and East Punjab States Union , Patjala . 
(8) All Deputy Commissioners in the Patiala and East Punjab 

States Union , 
(9 ) The Assistant Commissioner ( Textiles ) in the Patiala and East 

Punjab States Union . 
(10 ) The Assistant Controller of Civil Supplics, Government of 

Mysore , Bangalore. 
(1 ) Deputy Director ( Cotton ) Office of the Textile Commissioner, 

Bombay . 
(2 ) All Licensing Authorities appointed by the varlous State 

Governments . 
(3) Industrial Adviser ( Textile Production ) office of the Textile 

Commissioner, Bombay 
(4) Director (Production & Development) Office of the Textile 

Commissioner, Bombay . 
6 ) Deputy Director (Production & Development) Office of the 

Textile Commissioner, Bombay . 
(6 ) Assistant Director (Production & Development) Office of the 

Textile Commissioner, Bombay 
( 7) Deputy Director Production ) Bombay Region , Bombay . 

Director (Production ), Regional Directorate of Production , 

Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, Ahmedabad . 
( ) Assistent Director (Production ), Regional Directorate of Pro 

duction , Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner , 

Ahmedabad . 
( 10 ) Deputy Director Production ), Regional Directorate of Pro 

duction , Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, Indore . 
( II ) Assistant Director (Production ), Regional Directorate of 

Production , Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, 

Indore . 
(12 ) Deputy Director (Production ), Regional Directorate of 

Production , Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, 

Kanpur . 
( 13) Assistant Director (Production ), Regional Directorate of 

Production , Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner , 

Kanpur. 
( 14) Deputy Director (Production ), Regional Directorate of Pro 

duction , Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, Calcutta . 


652 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1958 


[PART II- SEC. 


(1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 15 ) Assistant Director (Production ), Regional Directorate of 

Production , Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner , 

Calcutta , 
(16 ) Deputy Director Production ), Regional Directorate of Pro 

duction , Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, Coim 

batore. 
( 17 ) Assistant Director (Production ), Regional Directorate of 

Production , Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner , 

Coimbatore . 
(18 ) Special Officer ( Textile ), Office of the Director of Industries 

and Commerce , Madras State , Madras . 


V . NANIAPPA , 
Toxtile Commissioner , 


[No.24 (22)-CT (A )/ 55 -6.) 
V . V . NENE , Under Secy 


COFFEE CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1956 
S .R . O . 1105 . - Shri M . R . Appu Menon , Secretary , Coffee Board , Bangalore , has 
been granted earned leave for twenty - three days with effect from 20th March . 
1956 to 11th April, 1956 , with permission to suffix the holidays on the 12th and 
13th April, 1956 . 

[No. 13 (9 ) Plant /58 .] 
TEA CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 7th May, 1956 
S . R . O . 1106 .- - The following draft of an amendment in the Tea Rules , 1984, 
which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by section 49 of the Tea Act, 1953 ( 29 of 1953 ) is published as required 
by sub - section ( 1 ) of the said section for the information of all persons likely 
to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken 
into consideration on or after 28th May , 1058 . 

2 . Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft amendment 
In rule 6 of the said Rules 

(1 ) the proviso shall be omitted ; 
(li) after sub -rulo (2 ), the following sub -rule shall be inserted , namely ; 
" ( 3 ) The office of a member of the Board or the Committee shall fall 

vacant from the date on which his resignation is accepted or on 
the expiry of 30 days from the date of receipt of intimation of 
resignation whichever is earlier ." 

[No. 32 ( 2 ) Plant/58 .] 
P . V . RAMASWAMY, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 7th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1107. / IDRA / 10 / 2 / 58 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act , 1961 
( LXV of 1951) , the Central Government hereby fixes a period of eight months from 
the date of this notification , as the period within which the owner of every existing 
Industrial undertaking pertaining to the steel torgings industry not being the 
Central Government, shall register the undertaking in the prescribed manner. 

[No. 4 ( 6 ) IA (GA ) / 53 . ) 


PART ITSEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


653 


S .R . O . 1108. / IDRA / 29B / 2 /50 ,-— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
29B of the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act, 1961 (LXV of 1951) , the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry , S . R . O . 
No . 815 , dated the 8th March , 1954 , namely : 

In the said notification , after entry 33, the following entry shall be inserted , 
namely 
" 34. Steel Forgings." 

[ No. 4 (6) IA (GA ) /59.] 
D . N . KRISHNAMURTHY , Under Secy , 


New Delhi, the 8th May 1956 

IRON AND STEEL (CONTROL ) ORDER , 1958 
S . R . O . 1109 . / ESS .COMM / IRON AND STEEL . - In exercise of the powers con 
Terred by section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1958 ) and in 
supersession of all previous Orders on the subject , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following Order : 

PART I - PRELIMINARY 
1. ( 1) This Order may be called the Iron and Steel (Control) Order, 1956 . 
( 2 ) It extends to the whole of India , except the State of Jammu and Kashmir . 

( 3 ) It shall come into force with effect from the date on which this Order is 
notified in the Gazette of India , 

2 . Definitions. In this Order , unless the context otherwise requires: 
( a ) " controlled source ” means : 

( 1) a producer , 
( ii ) a Railway Administration , 
( iii ) any factory , local authority , scrap merchant or person declared by the 

Controller to be " Controlled Source " . 
( b ) " controlled stockholder " means a stockholder appointed by the Controller 
to hold stocks of iron or steel under such terms and conditions as he may prescribe 
Irom time to time. 

( c ) " controller" means the person appointed as Iron and Steel Controller by 
the Central Government and includes any person exercising , upon authorisation 
by the Central Government, all or any of the powers of the Iron and Steel 
Controller. 

( d ) " factory means a factory as defined in clause ( m ) of section 2 of the 
Factories Act, 1948 (LXIII of 1948 ) , other than a factory managed by a producer 
or a Railway Administration . 

( e ) " local authority " shall have the meaning assigned to it by sub - section 
( 28 ) of Section 3 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 ( X of 1897) , 

(1 ) " pressure pipes " includes all pipes and tubes of 1 / 8 in . nominal bore and 
above which will withstand or may be used for a working pressure of 25 lbs. per 
square Inch and above. 

( 8 ) " producer" means a person carrying on the business of manufacturing Iron 
or steel. 

(b ) " registered producer " means a producer who is registered as such by the 
Controller . 

( 1) " stockholder " means a person holding stocks of iron or steel for sale who 
Ls registered as a stockholder by the Controller . 

(1 ) " scrap " means all iron or steel material which is commonly known as 
scrap and includes defective iron or steel material whether it is suitable only for 
Te - rolling or re-melting or can be used for other purposes . 

Explanation . A certificate signed by the Controller or any officer authorised 
by him in this behalf shall be conclusive proof that the material in respect of 
which the certificate is issued is " Scrap " for the purpose of this Order . 


654 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1958 


[ PART II — SEC. $ 


( k ) " scrap merchant" means a person other than a producer ( including A 
Registered Producer ), who carries on the business of acquiring , sorting and 
classifying scrap for disposal. 

PART II - IRON AND STEEL — PRIME QUALITY 
3 . ( 1 ) Application of this Part - The provisions of this Part shall apply to all 
Iron and steel of the categories specified in the Schedule to this Order : 

Provided that the Provisions of this Part shall not apply to any fabricated 
iron or steel of the categories gpecified in the said Schedule when such fabrication 
is done under the authority of or in accordance with the conditions contained or 
incorporated in a general or special written order of the Controller or under the 
authority of a quota certificate or permit issued under clauses 4 or 5 , as the case 
may be. 

( 2 ) A certifcate signed by the Controller or by any officer authorised by him 
in this behalf , in respect of any category of iron or steel, shall be conclusive proof 
that it is an article to which this Part is applicable . 

4 . Acquistion . - No person shall acquire or agree to acquire any iron or steel 
from a producer or stockholder except under the authority of and in accordance 
with the conditions contained in a quota certificate or permit issued by the Con 
troller or under the authority of and in accordance with the conditions contained 
or incorporated in a general or special written order of the Controller . 

5 . Disposal. - - No person , who acquires iron or steel under Clause 4 , or no 
producer shall dispose of or agree to dispose of or export or agree to export from 
any place to which this Order extends any iron or steel, except in accordance 
with the conditions contained or incorporated in a special or general written 
order of the Controller , 

6 . Carriers , warchousemen and servants . For the purposes of clauses 4 and 8 
any acquisition by or disposal to a carrier or warehouseman or servant acting in 
the ordinary course of business or employment as such of any iron and steel shall 
be deemed to be only an acquisition by or disposal to the person on whose behalt 
or to whose order the carrier , warehouseman or servant so acquired that steel 
and any acquisition from or disposal by a carrier or warehouseman or servant 
acting as aforesaid of any iron or steel shall be deemed to be only an acquisition 
from or disposal by the person on whose behalf or to whose order the carrier , 
warehouseman or servant so disposes of that steel. 

7. Use of Iron and Steel to conform to conditions governing acquisition . A 
person acquiring iron or steel in accordance with the provisions of clause 4 shall 
not use the Irun or steel otherwise than in accordance with any conditions con 
tained or incorporated in the document which was the authority for the 
acquisition : 

Provided that notwithstanding porvisions of this part or the conditions govern . 
ing the acquisition of any categories of iron or steel, the Controller may, by a 
written order , require any person holding stocks of Iron or steel either to release 
by way of loan or seli the whole or any part of the stock to such person or class 
of persons on such terms and conditions as may be specified in the order, 

In the exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso , the Controller may 
have regard to the following matters, namely : 

( a ) the requirements of the persons holding such stocks; 
(b ) the requirements of the persons needing such stocks; 
( c ) transport facilities available ; and 
(d ) any other factor including a strike or lock -out affecting production or 

fabrication 
8 . Surrender of revoked authorities. — Where any quota certificate , permit or 
written order , referica to in clause 4 or 5 is revoked by the authority which issued 
it , the person to whom it was issued shall forthwith return it to the authority 
which issued it . 

9 . Surrender of authorities at the time of acquisition . A person disposing of 
iron or steel in accordance with the provisions of clause 5 shall obtain from the 
person acquiring the steel the document which is the authority for the disposal 
and acquisition and shall preserve it , and when so required shall deliver it to the 
Controller or to such person as the Controller may direct. 


whithe person referred to ed authority 


PART II SEC. 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1968 


695 


accord to seedified 


10 . Power to direct sale . The Controller may, by a written order, require any 
person holding stock of iron and steel, acquired by him otherwise than in 
accordance with the provisions of clause 4 , to sell the whole or any part of the 
stock to such person or class of persons and on such terms and conditions as 
may be specified in the Order , 

11 . Power to prohibit Removal. The Controller may order any producer ( in 
cluding a registered producer ) , any stockholder (including a controlled stock 
holder ) or any other person not to remove or permit the removal of any iron or 
steel, whether sold or unsold , from his stockyard or from any other part of his 
premises to any place outside the precincts of such stockyard or premises, except 
with the written permission of the Controller. 

12 . Power to require keeping of accounts and to obtain information . - ( 1 ) Every 
Producer and every stockholder and other person holding stocks of iron or steel 
shall keep such books, accounts and records relating to the business carried on 
by him as the Controller may require . 

( 2 ) Every producer or stockholder or person holding stock of iron or steel and 
every person employed in connection with the business of a producer or stock 
holder cr person holding stocks of iron or steel, shall on being requested so to 
do , either by notice served on him or special or general direction issued by the 
Controller : 


( a ) produce to such person such stocks of Iron or steel and such accounts 

and other documents and within such period as may be specified in 

the notice or direction ; 
( b ) furnish to the Controller such estimates , returns and other information 

relating to the business and within such period as may be specified in 

the notice or direction . 
13 . The Controller may, where he is satisfied that such action is necessary 
in order to co -ordinate the production of iron or steel with the demands for iron 
or steel which have arisen or are likely to arise under authorisations to acquire 
duly issued under this part: 
( a ) prohibit, with effect from such date as he may specify , the manufacture 

by any producer of iron or steel of any of the categories specified 
in the Schedule to this Order, otherwise than in accordance with 

any general or special directions issued by the Controller ; 
( b ) require , with effect from such date and with reference to such periods 

as the Controller may specify , any producer to obtain approval to his 
programme of manufacture of iron or steel of any of the categories 

specified in the Schedule to this Order ; 
( c ) require, with effect from such date as the Controller may specify, any 

Producer to manufacture iron or steel of such categories as he is 
capable of manufacturing in accordance either with Programmes of 
production approved under sub - clause ( b ) of this clause or with 

special instructions issued by the Controller . 
14 . ( 1 ) The Controller may by order in writing direct any stockholder or other 
person holding stocks of iron or steel to maintain a list of the godowns and stock 
yards with the boundaries thereof, where iron or steel belonging to him is stocked , 
and to exhibit such list on his business premises, The Controller may in any such 
order give directions as to the manner in which the order is to be carried out. 


( 2 ) The Controller may, by notification in the official Gazette , direct that 
every producer , stockholder or other person holding stocks of iron or steel when 
selling any iron or steel shall give to the purchaser a memorandum containing the 
particulars specified in such notification , 

( 3 ) No producer , stockholder , or other person holding stocks of iron and steel , 
shall , without sufficient cause , refuse to sell any iron or steel which he is authoris 
ed to sell under this Part. 

Explanation . — The possibility or expectation of obtaining a higher price at a 
later date shall nct be deemed to be a sufficient cause for the purpose of this 
clause , 

15 . Power to fix prices . - ( 1 ) The Controller may form time to time by noti 
fcation in the Gazette of India , Ax the maximum prices at which any Iron or 
steel may be sold ( a ) by a producer , ( b ) by a stockholder including a controlled 


656 


THE GAME OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


( PART II — SEC , 8 


stockholder and ( c ) by any other person or class of persons. Such price or prices 
may differ for iron and steel obtainable from different sources and may include 
allowances for contribution to and payment from any Equalisation Fund establish 
ed by the Controller for equalising freight, the concession rates payable to each 
producer or class of producers under agreements entered into by the Controller 
with the producers from time to time, and any other disadvantages. The Con 
troller may also , by a general or special order in writing , require any person or 
class of persons enumerated above to pay such amount on account of allowances 
for contribution to any Equalisation Fund , within such period and in such manner 
as the Controller may direct in this behalf. 

( 2 ) For the purpose of applying the prices notified under sub - clause ( 1 ) the 
Controller may himself classify any iron and steel and may, if no appropriate 
price has been so notified , fx such price as he considers appropriate ; 

Provided that where any stocks are required by a special order of the Con 
troller to be moved from one place to another or are to be sold at a place which 
is not connected with any railhead , the Controller may direct that the maximum 
prices fixed under sub - clause ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) , shall not apply to such stocks and may , 
In respect of such stocks, specify the maximum prices at which the iron or steel 
may be sold , 

( 3 ) No producer or stockholder or other person shall sell or offer to sell, and 
no person shall acquire , any iron or steel at a price exceeding the maximum prices 
Axed under sub - clause ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) . 

16 . Power to control the creation of new productive capacity. No persons shall , 
except under the authority of, and in accordance with the conditions specified in , 
general or special order of the Controller : 
( a ) erect, re - erect, construct or extend any buildings or works intended for 

the production of iron or steel; 
(b ) instal any plant or equipment, including any machine tools for the pro 

duction of Iron or steel. 
17. Power of Central Government to gtve directions. The Central Government 
may give directions as to the procedure to be followed by the authorities issuing 
quota certificates , permits or written orders , referred to in Clauses 4 and 5 , as to 
the maintennnce by the Controller of records in connection with the distribution 
of iron or steel and generally for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of 
this part . 

PART III _ DEFECTIVES AND SCRAP 
18 . Acquisition of Scrap. - No producer shall acquire or agree to acquire any 
scrap except under the authority of and in accordance with the conditions con 
tained or incorporated in a written Order of the Controller , and no person or 
authority other than a producer shall acquire or agree to acquire any scrap from 
a controlled source gave under the authority of and in accordance with the con 
ditions contained or Incorporated in a written order of the Controller . 

19 . Use of Scrap to conform to conditions governing acquisition . - A person 
acquiring scrap in accordance with the provisions of Clause 18 shall not use it 
otherwise than in accordance with any conditions contained or incorporated in 
the document which was the authority for the acquisition . 

20 . Disposal of Scrap . No person or authority having the management of a 
controlled source shall sell or otherwise dispose of any scrap save under the 
authority of ani in accordance with the conditions contained or incorporated in a 
written order of the Controller, 

21. Carriers , warehousemen , and servants . For the purpose of clauses 18 and 
20 any acquisition by or disposal to a carrier , warehouseman or servant acting 
in the ordinary course of his business or employment as such of any scrap shall , 
be deemed to be only an acquisition by or disposal to the person on whose behalf 
or to whose order the carrier, warehouseman or servant so acquires that scrap ; 
and any acquisition from or disposal by a carrier , warehouseman or servant acting 
as aforesaid of any scrap shall be deemed to be only an acquisition from or dis . 
posal by the person on whose behalf or to whose order the carrier , warehouseman 
or servant 8o disposes of that scarp . 

22 . Powor to direot malo. - The Controller may , by a written order, require any 
person holding stock of scrap , acquired by him otherwise than in accordance with 
the provisions of clause 18 to sell the whole or any part of the stock to such person 


PART II SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF 


A , ., Y 12, 


ww 


057 


or class of persons and on such terms and conditions as may be specified in the 
Order 

23 Power to prohibit removal — The Controller may order any controlled 
source , serap merchant or any other person not to remove or permit the removal 
of any scrap , whether sold or unsold , from his stockyard or from any other part 
of his premises to any place outside the precincts of such stockyard or premises 
except with the written permission of the Controller 

24 Regulation of controlled soulces — The Controller may from time to time 
issue directions to the person or authority having the management of any controlled 
source requiring him -- 


( a ) to keep such books, accounts, and records relating to his business 

as the Controller may specify in the direction , 
( b ) to produce to such person as may be mentioned in the direction such 

stocks of scrap and such accounts and other documents as the Con 

troller may specify in the direction , 
( c ) to furnish to the Contioller such cstimates , returns ond other infor 

mation relating to the business as may be mentioned in the direction ; 
( d ) to sort the scrap in his possession from time to time in accordance with 

such classification as may be mentioned in the direction 
25 Declarations, written orders and directions — ( 1 ) Declarations under clause 
2 ( a ) and directlons under ( laise 24 shall be in writing and shall be delivered to 
the person or authority concemed personally or by registered post 

( 2 ) Written orders under clause 18 or clause 20 may be made by the Controller 
on application or of his own motion and shall be delivered to the person or 
authority concerned personally or by registered post 

( 3 ) The person or authority to whom a direction or written order is addressed 
shall comply with the same, and with any conditions contained or incorporated 
therein . 

4 When a written order is revoked by the Controller , the person or authority 
to whom it was addressed shall forthwith return it to the Controller. 

26 ( 1 ) The Controller may by order in writing direct any controlled source 
or scrap merchant or othei person holding stocks of scrap to maintain a list of 
the godowns and stockyards with the boundaries thereof , where scrap belonging 
to him is stocked , and to exhibit such list on his business premises The Con 
troller may in any such order give directions as to the manner in which the 
order is to be carried out 

( 2 ) The Controller may , by notification in the Gazette of India , direct that 
every controlled source , scrap merchant or other person holding stocks of scrap 
when selling any scrap shall give to the purchaser a memorandum containing the 
particulars specified in such notification 

27 Controller s power to fix prices - ( 1 ) The Controller shall from time to 
time with the approval of the Central Government publish by notification in 
the Gazette of India prices for different classes of scrap Such prices may differ 
for scrap obtainable from different persons and classes of persons, may specify 
buyers and sellers prices and may include allowances for contributions to any 
Equalisation fund established by the Controller for equalising freight and other 
disadvantages 

( 2 ) For the purpose of applying the prices notified under sub - clause ( 1 ) of 
this clause , the Controller may himself classify any scrap and , may, if no appro 
priate price has been so notified , ix such price as he considers appropriate , 

Provided that the Controller may direct that the maximum prices fixed under 
sub - clauses ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) shall not apply to any specified stocks of scrap held by 
Railways or any other department of Government including Government Cor 
porations, like Sindri Fertilisers & Chemicals Limited , Hindustan Steel Limited 
and the like, and may , in respect of such stocks specify the maximum prices at 
which such scrap may be sold 

( 3 ) When an accumulation of scrap contains heavy pieces which in the opinion 
of the Controller should be broken up before the scrap is disposed of, the Con 
troller may direct the person or authority having the management of the con 
trolled source concerned to break up the scrap to a suitable size, and may , if his 
direction is not complied with , reduce the price of the scrap so as to cover the 
cost to the purchaser of breaking it up 


. . 


. . 


. 12, 


L . 


II.- 


( 4 ) No person shall sell or offer to sell or otherwise dispose of, and no person 
shall acquire, any scrap at prices in excess of those notified or fixed by the 
Controller under this clause . 

PART IV – GENERAL 
28 . Powers of the Controller - - The Controller may , with a view to securing 
compliance with this Order 
( a ) require any person to give such information in his possession in respect 

of stocks of iron or steel or of scrap acquired by him or in respect of 

any business carried on by that or any other person ; 
( b ) Inspect or cause to be Inspected any stocks of iron or steel or of scrap 

held by any person and any books or other documents belonging to 

or under the control of any person ; 
( c ) enter and search , or authorise any person to enter and search , any 

premises and seize any article in respect of which he has reason to 
believe that a contravention of this Order has been , is being or 1s 
about to be committed , and any other article in the premises which 
he has reason to believe has been or is intended to be used in con 

nection with such contravention . 
29 . Savings. - Notwithstanding the supersession of the Iron and Steel (Con . 
trol of Production and Distribution ) Order , 1941 and the Iron and Steel ( Scrap 
Control) Order , 1943 , any order or appointment made, licence or permit granted , 
quota certificate or direction issued by any authority whatsoever , under either of 
the above orders , and in force immediately before the commencement of this 
Order , shall be deemed as to be the order or appointment made, the licence or 
permit granted , the quota certificate or direction issued under this Order and 
shall continue to be in force. 

THE SCHEDULE 

( See Clause 3 ) 

Iron and Steel to which Part II applies 
Pig Iron . 
Ingots , Blooms, Billets , Tin Bars , Sheet Bars, and Slabs. 
Steel castings. 
Heavy structurals (including heavy sections of joists, channels and angles ). 

Light structurals ( including light sections of joists, channels, angles, tees and 
Light rails of 30 lbs, and under ) . 

Tyres , Wheels and Axles. 
Shell steel Ingots , Blooms, Billets and Bars . 
Heavy rails (over 30 lbs ) , Fishplates, Dogspikes, Chair spikes , Screw spikęs, 
Tinplate, Terneplate . 
Black sheets ( Plain and corrugated ) . 
Galvanised sheets (Plain and corrugated ). 
Plates ( Shipbuilding ). 
Plates (Ordinary mild steel and tensile ), 
Plates ( Bullet - Proof ) . 
Bars ( including flats, squares, rounds, hexagons and rods) . 
Bolts (including Fish Bolts ), Nuts and Rivets. 
Black or Galvanised Wire , whether plain or barbed . 
Wire Nails. 
Wire (Migcellaneous ) 
Hoops and Strips. 
Spring Steel in any unfabricated or semi-fabricated form . 
Topl Steel in any unfabricated or semi- fabricated form . 
Wrought Iron pressure pipes and tubes, steel pressure pipes and tubes . 

Wrought Iron fittings, malleable iron fittings and steel fittings , coated or 
uncoated , excluding electrical conduit pipes . 

Cast Iron Pressure Pipes and Specials. 
Wire Ropes, 

[NO. SC ( A )-4 ( 253).] 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1958 


659 


S .R . O . 1110 . / ESS.COMM . / IRON & STEEL -4 & 5 . — The following Notification 
Issued by the Iron and Steel Controller under clauses 4 and 5 of the Iron and 
Steel ( Control) Order , 1956 , is hereby published for general information : 

" NOTIFICATION 
In pursuance of the provisions of clauses 4 and 5 of the Iron and Steel (Control ) 
Order , 1956, and in supersession of all previous notifications on the subject , I 
hereby authorise that, subject to the general conditions set out below : - - 
( 1) any person may acquire, without permit, the articles specified in item 

( a ) of the following entries from the persons spéciflęd in item ( b ) 

of the said entries from the stocks mentioned in item ( c ) : 
( II ) the persons specified at item ( b ) of the following entries may dispose 

of, without permit , the articles specified in item ( a ) of the said 

entries from the stocks mentioned in item ( c ) : – 
1. (a ) ( 1) Tyres, Wheels and Axles. 

( 2 ) Dog - spikes . 
( 3 ) Bolts (including Fish Bolts ) , Nuts and Rivets . 
( 4 ) Wire Nails , 
( 5 ) Tool Steel in any unfabricated or semi- fabricated form . 
( 6 ) Cast Iron Pressure Pipes and Specials . 
( 7) Wire Ropes. 
( 8 ) Any variety of Pipes, Tubes and Fittings (indigenous or 

imported ) ; 
( b ) any person ; 

(c ) any stocks. 
2 . (a ) Black Sheets ( Plain ) Galvanised Sheets ( Plain ), Galvanised 

Sheets (Corrugated ) and Plates - any quantity ; 
(b ) any stockholder other than a Registered Producer or a Controlled 

Stockholder ; 
( c ) from stocks held for a period exceeding 90 days, or for a lesser 

period if the State Licensing Authority so orders , from the date of 
receipt by the State Steel Licensing Authority of first intimation 
of such stocks, but which remain either ( a ) uncovered by permite 
or ( b ) covered by issue of permits , but for which no financial 
arrangements have been made by the allottees within the period 

of validity of the permits issued . 
3 . ( a ) Iron and Steel (other than the articles specified in Items 1 ( a ) 

and 2 ( a ) above ] — any quantity ; 
( b ) any stockholder other than a Registered Producer or a Controlled 

Stockholder ; 


( o ) from stocks held for a period exceeding 60 days from the date of 

receipt by the State Steel Licensing Authority of first intimation 
of such stocks, but which remain either ( a ) uncovered by permits 
or ( b ) covered by issue of permits, but for which no financial 
arrangements have been made by the allottees within the period 

of validity of the permits issued , 
The above authorisations shall be subject to the following general conditions : 

(1) All acquisitions and disposals shall be made within the Union of India ; 
( ii) Statutory selling prices, if any, shall not be exceeded ; 
(III ) Every Stockholder other than a Controlled Stockholder or a Registered 

Producer shall submit, at the end of each calendar month , to the 
State Steel Licensing Authority concerned , a return of transactions 
under entries 2 and 3 above, together with the balance of stocks in 
hand , indicating the number and date of the letter of intimation 
referred to in the entries 2 ( c ) and 3 ( c ) above , so as to reach the 
State Steel Licensing Authority not later than the 10th of the 
succeeding month . 

C . R . NATESAN , 
Iron and Steel Controller. 

[NO, SC ( A ) - 4 (263 ) / A . ] 


630 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 [ PART II — SEC. & 
- - 
S . R . O . 1111 / ESS .COMM . / IRON & STEEL - 14 (2 ) & 26 ( 2 ) . — The following Notifica 
tion issued by the Iron and Steel Controller under sub - clause ( 2 ) of clause 14 and 
sub - clause ( 2 ) of clause 26 of the Iron and Steel (Control) Order , 1956, is hereby 
published for general information : 

" NOTIFICATION 


In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub - clause ( 2 ) of Clause 14 and 
sub - clause ( 2 ) of Clause 26 of the Iron and Steel (Control) Order , 1956 , I hereby 
direct that every Controlled Source, Producer , Stockholder or other person hold 
ing stocks of Iron and Stcel or Iron and Steel Scrap shall issue a memorandum 
relating to every sale of Jron and Steel or Iron and Steel Scrap by such Con 
trolled Source , Producer , Stockholder or other person holding stocks of Iron and 
Steel or Iron and Stecl Scrap , showing the following details of the materials 
supplied and the price charged therefor , and maintain a duplicate copy of the 
memorandum as aforesaid : - - 

( a ) Name and address of the seller . 
(b ) Name and address of the buyer . 
( c ) Number and date of the Quota Certificate or Permit or Licence . 
( d ) Specifications of the goods sold . 
( e ) Weight of the goods sold . 
( f) Rate por ton of each item . 
( g ) Total price charged . 
(h ) Seller s signature . 
(i) Sales Tax , loading and other incidental charges, octroi, etc . ( To be 
shown separately ) . 

C . R . NATESAN , 
Iron and Steel Controller ." 

[No . SC ( A ) -4 (253 ) / B .] 


S . R . O . 1112 EŞS . COMM ./ IRON & STEEL - 2 ( c ). - In cxcrcise of the powers con 
ferred by sub - clause (c ) of Clause 2 of the Iron und Stcel ( Control) Order , 1956 and in supersession 
of all previous notifications on the subject, the Central Government hereby authorises the officers 
mentioned in Column 2 of the Schedule annexed hereto to exercise the powers of the Controller 
under the Clauses of the said Order mentioncd in Column 3 thereof within their respective juris 
dictions , 


SCHEDULE 


Designation of Officers 


Clauses under which they are autho 

rised 


Andhra 


, 


, 


, 


1. Director of Controlled Commo- 4 , 5 , 10 , 11, 12 (2 ), 18 , 20 ,22, 23 , 24 (b ) 

ditics and Director of Agricul - 24 (c ), 24 (d ) and 28 ( for Iron & 
turc and Fisheries, Andhra . Stech and Scrap ) . 


Assam 


, 


. 


, 


I. Director of Conşumer Goods , 4 ,5 , 10 , 11 , 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 22, 23 , 24 (b ) , 

Government of Assam , Shillong 24°) & 24 ( d ). 
2 , All Deputy Commissioners and 4 , 5 , 10 and 22 , 

Şub - Divisional Officers in 
Assånn . 


Andaman & 

Islands 


Nicobar I. Deputy Commissioner, Anda- 4 ,5, 18 ,20 ,23 ,24(b), 24 (c) and 24(d ). 

man and Nicobar Islands, Port 
Blair . 


PART II SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1958 


661 


LU 


Designation cf Officers 


Clauses under which they are 

Authorised , 


3 


Almer 


, 


. 


. 


22 , 


23 , 


I, Additional Assistant Commis - 4 ,5 , 10 , 11, 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 
sioner and Officer Incharge, 24 (b ), 24 (c ) and 24 ( d ). 
Food and Civil Supplics , Ajmer. 


Bombay . 


, 


Bihac 


, 


. 


I . Controller of Iron , Stcel & Ce- 
I. Controller of Iron , $ t 

4 ,5 , 10 , 11 , 12 ( 2 ), 18 ,20 , 22 ,23, 24 (b ) 
ment, Government of Bombay, 24( c ), 24 (d ) and 28 ( For Iron & 
Bombay 

Steel and Scrap ). . 
2 . Assistant Controller of Iron , 4 , 5 , 18 , 20, 24 ( b ), 24 ( c ) and 24 ( d ) 

Steel & Cement, Government 

of Bombay, Bombay . 
3 . Agricultural Iron & Steel Supply 

Oficer, Government of Bombay , 4 ,5, 10 , II, ard 12 (2). 

Bombay , 
4 . All Collectors and Mamlatdars 4 and 5. 

in the State of Bombay . 
5 . Director of Industries Govern - II , 12 ( 2 ) and 28 (For Iron and 

ment of Bombay, Bombay . Steel only ). 
1. Director of Industries , Govern - 4 ,5, 10 , II, 12(2), 18, 20 ,22, 23 , 
ment of Bihar, Patna. 

24 (b ) , 24 ( c ) and 24 ( d ) . 
2 . Director of Agriculture , Bihar 4, 5, 18 , 20, 24 (b ), 24 (c) & 24 (d ). 

Patna , 
3 . Joint Director of Agriculture, 18, 20 ,24(6 ),24 (c ) & 24 (d ), 

Bihar , Patna . 
4 . All Distt . Agricultural Officers 4 .5, 18 ,20 ,24/ b ),24 (c) and 24 (d ). 

& Grow More Food Officers 
appointed by the Government of 

Bihar , 
3 . Additional Distt. Magistrate 4 and 5 . 

of Dhanbad and the Distt. Magi 
strates of all other Districts of 

Bihar. 
6 . All Deputy Directors of Agri- 4 ,5, 18 ,20, 24 (b ), 24 (c ) and 24 (d ). 

culture , Bihar, 
7. Deputy Secretary to Govern - 4,5. 12 (2 ), 18, 20, 24 (b),24(c) and 

Inent Supply & Price Control 24 ( d ) . 

Department , Bihar . 
. Secretary and Commissioner 4 ,5 , 11, 12 (2 ), 18 ,20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c) and 
Food and Civil Supplies, 24 (d ). 

Bhopal. 
2 . Secretary, Commerce & In - 4 , 5 and 12 ( 2 ). 

dustries Department, Govern 
ment of Bhopal, Bhopal 
3 . Development Commissioner, 4 , 5 and 12 ( 2 ), 

Government of a Bhopal, Bhopal, 
I. Civil Supplies Officer , Bilas - 415, 18 , 20, 24 (6 ), 24 (c ) and 24 (d ). ] 

pur, Simla Hills . ) 
1. Assistant Director , Civil 4 , 5, 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c ) and 24 ( d ). 

Supplies (General) Delhi, 
2 . The Director of Industries and 4 , 5 , 10 , II , 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 24 (b ).. 
Labour, Delhi. 

24 ( c ) & 24 ( d ). 
3 . Agricultural Officer , Delhi, 4 frd s . 

State Delhi. 
4 . Superintendent of Industries, 4 , 5 , 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c) ard 24 (0 ). 

Delhi, 


Bhopal 


. 


. 


. 


Bilaspur , 


. 


. 


Delhi 


. 


. 


. 


Hyderabad 


. 


. 


1. Iron and Steel Controller , 4 , 5 , 10 , 11 , 12 ( 2), 18 , 20 , 22 , 23 , 

Govt. of Hyderabad , Khairata - 24 (b ), 24 ( c) & 24 (d ). 
bad . 


662 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


[PART II – Sec. 3 


Designation of Offices 


Clauscs under which they are 

a thorised 


Himachal Pradesh 


I Directoi of Cıvıl Supplice , 4 , 5 and 23 

Himachal Pradesh , Simla . 
2 District Agricultural Officers, 28 (h ) & ( C) ( For Iron and Steel 
Government of Himachal Pra - only ). 

desh , Simla . 
1 . Provincial Iron & Steel Licensing 4 , 5 , 12 (2 ), 18 , 20 , 23, 24 (b ), 24 ( c) 
Authority , Kutch . 

and 24( d ). 


Kutch 


Madras 


Madhya Pradesh 


) . Additional Director of Indus- 4 , 5 , 10 , II, 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 22, 

tries & Commerce , Govt . of 24 (6 ) , 24 ( e ), 24 (d ) & 281 
Madras, Madras 

(For Iron & Steel and Scrap ). 
2 . Director of Agriculture, Govt. 4 , 5 , 10 , 11, 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20, 22 23 
of Madras , Madras 

24C) , 24 ( d ) & 24 ( d ) . 
3 Special Officer ( Iron & Steel) 4 , 5, 18 & 20 . 

Office of the Director of In 
dustries & Commerce, Chepauk , 

Madras - 5 . 
4 Deputy Director of Agriculture 4 and 5. 

(Engineering), Government of 
Madras , Madras. 
I . Steel Controller, Govt. of 4 , S , IO , 11, 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 22 , 23, 
Madhya Pradesh , Nagpur . 24 ( b ), 24 ( c ), 24 ( d ) & 28 ( For 

Iron and Steel and Scrap ) . 
2 Chief Executive Officers of 4 , 5 18 , 20 , 24 (6 ), 24 (c ) and 
Janjapada Sabhag in Madhya 246d ). 

Pradesh . 
3 Deputy Commissioners in 4 , 5, 18 , 20 , 24(b ), 24 ( 0) 400 
Madhya Pradesh . 

24 ( d ) . 
4 . District Development Officers, 4 and 3 . 

Madhya Pradesh , 
5 Assistant Project Officers, 4 and 5 . 

Madhya Pradesh , 
1. Iron and Steel Controller , 4, 5, 18 , 20, 24(b ), 24 (c) and 24 ( d). 
Government of Mysore , Bhad 
ravati. 


Mysore 


Madhya Bharat 


1. Director of Food and Civil 4 , 5 , 10 , II , 12 (2 ), 18 , 20 , 22 , 23 , 

Supplies, Govt. of Madhya 24 ( b ), 24 (c ), 24 ( d ) & 28 (For 
Bharat. 

Iron and Steel Scrap) . 
2 . Deputy Director of Food And 4 , 3, 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c ) 

Civil Supplies, Govt. of Madhye and 24Cd ). 

Bharat. 
3 . Assistant Director of Food and 4 , 5 , 18, 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c ) and 24 ( d ). 

Civil Supplies , Govt.ofMadhya 

Bharat . 
4 . Collectors , Dhar , Dewas , Manda 4 and s. 

saur , Shujapur , Ratlam , Guna 
and Numar (Khargone) Dist 

ricts of Madhya Bharat. 
I. Controller of Supplies , Govt, 4 , 5 , 10, 11, 12(2 ), 18, 20, 22 , 23 
of Orissa , Cuttack , 

24( b ), 24 ( c ), 24 ( d ) & 28 (for 

iron and steel only ) . 
2 Director of Agriculture and 4 , 5, 18, 20, 24 (b ), 24 (c) and 24 (d). 

Food Production , Govt. of 
Orissa , Cuttack , 
3 Deputy Secretary _ (Iron and 4 , 5, 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24( c) and 24( d ). 

Steel), Deptt of Supply and 
Transport, Govt. of Ori$ 88 , 

Cuttack , 
4 Director of Industries , Govt. 4, 5, 18, 20 , 24 (b), 24(c) and 24 (d ). 

of Orissa , Cuttack . 


Orissa 


PART IT - Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


663 


— 


Designation of Officers 


Clauses under which they are 

authorised 


- -- 


- 


i 


3 


5 . All District Alagistratures in the 4 , 5, 18, 20 , 24 ( 6 ), 24 (c) and 24 (u ). 

State of Orissa . 
6 . District Supplies Officers in 4 and 5 . 

the State of Orissa . 
7 . All Civil Supplies Officers in the 4 , 5 , 18 , 20, 24 (b ), 24 (c) and 24 ( d ). 

the State of Orissa . 
8. All District Agriculral Officers 4 , 5 , 18 , 20, 24 (b ), 24 (c) and 24 (d ). 

in the State of Orissa . 
9 . Agricultural Engineer to the 4 , 5, 18 , 20, 24 ( b ), 24 (c) and 24 (d ). 

Government of Orissa , 
10 . All Sub -Divisional Officers 4 , 5 , 18 , 20 , 24 (6 ), 24 (c) and 24 (d ). 
and Talug Officers in the State 

of Orissa , 
II. All Deputy and Sub -Deputy 4 and 5 , 

Magistrates in the State of 

Orissa . 
12 . Industrial Engineer to the 4 and 5. 

Government of Orissa , Cuttack . 


Punjab . 


. 


. 


I. Director of Industries and De- 4 ; S , IO , I1, I2 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 22 , 23 

puty Secretaries to the Govt. of 24 ( b ), 24 (c ), 24 ( d ), and 28 ( for 
Punjab , Civil Supplies Departm - Iron & steel and scrap ). 

ent, Simla . 
2 . Deputy Director, Controlled 4 , 5 , 10 , II, 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 22 , 23 

Commodities , Govt. of Punjab , 24 ( b ), 24( c), 24 d ) and 28 
Simla . 

( for Iron & steel & scrap ). 
3 . Agricultural Engineers ( Im - 4 and 5 . 

plements), Govt. of Punjab . 

Karnal, 
4. Deputy Director of Industrico 4, 5, IO , II, and 12 (2 ). 

(Rehabilitation ), Government 

of Punjab , Simla . 
5 . Deputy Iron and Fuel Control 4 and s. 

Officer, Punjab , Simla . 
6 . Estate Officer , Capital 4 and 5. 

Project, Chandigarh . 
7. District Industries Officers , 4 , 5 , 10 , II, 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 23 , 24 ( 6 ) 
Government of Punjab 

24 ( c ), 24 ( d ) , and 28 (for Iron and 
steel and scrap ) . 


PEPSU 


. 


. 1. Director of Industries, Govt. of 4 , 5, 10 , II, 12 (2), 18 , 20, 24(6 ), 
PEPSU , Patiale . 

24 (c ), 24 ( d ), and 28 ( for iron and 

steel and scrap ). 
2 . Director of Agriculture , Govt. 4 , 5, 18 , 20, 240b ), 24 ( e) and 24 (a ). 

of PEPSU , Patiala . 
3 . Deputy Director of Industrles 4 and 5. 

Government of PEPSU , Patiala . 
4 . Assistant Director of Industries 4 and 5 . 

Government of PEPSU , Patiala . 
5 . Inspector of Industries ( In - 4 and 5 . 

charge Conrtol), Government 

of PBPSU , Patiala . 
6 . Inspector of Industries , Govt. 4 and 5. 

of PEPSU , Kapurthale. 
7. Inspector of Industries , Govt. 4 and 5. 

of PEPSU , Faridkot . 
8 . Inspector of Industries , Govt. 4 and 5. 

of PEPSU , Malerkotla . 
9 . Inspector of Industries , Govt . 4 and 5 . 

of PEPSU , Sangrur . 
10 . Inspector of lodustries, Govt. 4 and 5 . 

of PÉPSU , Narnaul. 
11. Inspector of Industries, Govt. 4 and 5. 

of PEPSU , Patjaja . 


-664 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


[ PART II — Sec. 3 


Designation of Officers . 


Clauses under which they are 

authorised 


I 


3 


I. Political Officers. . 


. 


. 


10 and 22 . 


North East Frontier 

Agency , Aggam . 
Rajasthan . 


. 


1. Director of Industries & Com - 4 , 5, 18 , 20 , 24 ,(b ), 24 (c ), & 246d ). 

merce , Govt . of Rajasthan , Jaipur 
2 . Deputy Director of Industries 4 , 5, 18 , 20 , 24 (6 ), 24 (c), & 24 (d ). 

& Commerce , Govt, of Rajas 

than , Jaipur. 
3 . Assistant Director of Industries , 4 , 5, 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c), & 24 (d ). 

& Commerce , Govt. of Rajas 

than , Jaipur. 
4 . Assistant Director of Industries 4 , 5, 18 , 20 , 24 (d ), 24 (c), & 246d ). 

& Commerce , Govt of Rajas 

than , Bikaner . 
5 . Aglstant Director of Industries 4 , 5, 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c ), & 24 (d ). 

& Commerce , Govt of Rajas 

than , Jodhpur. 
6 . Assistant Director of Industries 4 , 5 , 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24(c) & 24 ( d ). 

& Commerce , Govt of Rajas 

than , Bharatpur. 
7. Assistant Director of Industries, 4, 5 , 18, 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c), & 24 (d ). 

& Commerce , Govt of Rajas 

than , Udaipur . 
8 . Director of Agriculture , Govt. 4 , 5 , 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c) & 24 ( d ). 

of Rajasthan , Jaipur. 
9 . All Collectors of the Districts 4, 5 , 18, 20, 24(b ), 24 (c), & 24(d ). 

in Rajastan . 


Saurashtra 


. 


. 


I. Director of Industry and Sup - 4 , 5 , 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c ), & 24 (d ). 

ply , Govt. of Saurastitra, Rajkot. 


Travancore- Cochin 


- 


1. Director of Agriculture, Govt . 4 , 5, 18 , 20 , 24(b ), 24 (c) & 24 (d ). 

of Travancore - Cochin , Trivan 

drum 
2. Director of Industries & Com - 4 , 5 , 18, 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c) & 24 (d ). 
merce , Govt of Travancore 
Cochin , Trivandrum , 


Uttar Pradesh 


, 


I . Provincial Iron & Steel Control- 4 , 5, 10 , II, 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 22 , 23, 
ler , Uttar Pradesh , Kanpur. 

24 (6 ) , 24 (c ), 24 ( d ) and 28 (for 

Iron & Steel and scrap ). 
2 . Assistant Provincial Iron & Steel 4 , 5 , 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c ) & 24 (d ). 

Controller, Uttar, Pradesh Kan 

pur . 
3. Deputy Provincial Iron and 4 , 5, 18 , 20 , 24(b ), 24,(c) & 24(d). 

Steel Controller Uttar Pra 

desh , Kanpur, 
4 . All District Magistrates in 4 , 5 , 18 , 20 , 24, (6 ),24 (c ), & 24 (d ). 

Uttar Pradesh . 


Vindhya Pradesh 


, 


I. Director , Food and Civil Sup 

plies , Vindhya Pradesh , Rewa. 
2 . Collectors of Vindhya Pradesh 


4 , 5, 18 , 20 , 24 (6 ), 24 (C) & 21 (d ). 
4 , 5 , 18 and 20 . 


PART II Sec . 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1958 


665 


Designation of Oficers. 


Clauses under which they are 

authorised . 


West Bengal 


, 


4 , 5 , 10 , 11, 12 (2 ), 18 , 20 , 22 , 

23 , 24 (6 ), 24 (c) and 24 (d ). 
12 (2), 18, 20, 24 (b), 24 (-) 

& 24(d ). 


4, 5, 18, 20 , 24 ((6), 24 (c) and 

24 
4 and 5. 
4 and s. 


4 and s. 


Others 


Director of Consumer Goods , 
West Bengal, Calcutta 
2 . Dy. Director of Consumer 

Goods, West Bengal, Calcutta 
3 . All Assistant Directors of 
Consumer Goods and all Sub 
Divisional Officers and Officers 
authorised to work as such dur 
ing the temporary absence of 
Sub - Divisional Officers , of the 
Govt, of West Bengal . 
4 . Secretary , Industrial Reha 

bilitation Board , Calcutta 
5 . Agricultural Engineer, Govt . 

of West Bengal, Calcutta 
6 . Sub - Divisional Agricultural 
Officers, appointed by the Govt . 
of West Bengal 
7 . Sub - Divisional Controllers 
of Food and Supplies appointed 
by the Govt. of West Bengal , 
I. Controller of Stores, Eastern 
Rly ., Calcutta 
2 . Controller of Storcs, North 

Eastern Rly , Gorakhpur 
3 . Controller of Stores , Northern 

Railway, Delhi . 
4 . Controller of Stores, Central 

Railway , Bombay . 
5 . Controller of Stores , Western 

Railway , Bombay . 
6 . Controller of Stores, Southern 

Railway , Madras 
7 . Controller of Storce , South 

Eastern Railway , Calcutta . 
8 . Dy. Controller of Stores, In 
dian Rallways , Locomotive 
Manufacturing Works, Calcutta 
9 . Railway Liaison Officer, Mini 

stry of Railways , New Delhi . 
Io . The Deputy Controller of 

Stores , Integral Coach Factory , 
Perambur, Madras . . 
11. Chairman , Tea Board , Calcutta 
12 . Secretary , Tea Board , 

Calcutta 
13 . Supply Officer , Tea Board , 

Calcutta 
14. Secretary , Indian Central Cot 

ton Committee , Bombay . 
15 . Deputy Assistant Coal Com 

missioner (Stores ), Calcutta . 
16 . Textile Commissioner, Bombay . 
17. Director ( Production & De 

velopment), Office of the Tex 
tilc Commissioner, Bombay 
18 . Assistant Director in the Pro 

duction and Development 
Branch , Office of the Textile 
Commissioner , Bombay 


4 , 5, 18 and 20 . 
4 and 5. 
4 and s. 
4 and 5 . 
4 and s . 
4 and 5. 
4 and s. 
4 and s. 


4 and 5. 
4 and s. 


4 and 5 . 


4 and 5 


4 add 5. 
4 and 5 , 


4 and 5 . 
4 and 5 . 


4 and s. 


4 and 5 . 


666 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1958 


[ PART II — SEC. X 


. 


Designation of Officers 


Clauses under which they are 

authorised 


4 and s. 


Simla 


4 and s. 


4 and 5 . 


4 and s. 


19. Dircctor , Central Water and 

Power Commission , Şimla . 
20 . Assistant Director , Central 

Water and Power Commission , 
21, Development Officer ( Chemi 

cals - I), Development Wing, 
Ministry of Commerce and 

Industry 
22. Development Officer ( Timber) 

(Chemicals II) , Development 
Wing, Ministry of Commerce 

and Industry . 
23 . Development Officer ( Chemi 

cals - III), Development Wing, 
Ministry of Commerce and 

Industry 
24 . Assistant Development Offi 

cer ( Steel), Development Wing, 
Ministry of Commerce and 

Industry 
25. Director (Sugar), Ministry of 

Food and Agriculture, New Delhi 
26 . Deputy Director of Supplies 

( Steel and Railway Cell ), Direc 
torate General of Supplies and 
Disposals, New Delhi , . 


4 and 5. 


4 and 3. 
4 and s, 


4 and s. 


All clauses of the control order. 


4 and s. 


10 and 22 . 


10 and 22 . 


27. Deputy Iron and Steel Con 
troller, Iron and Steel Control, 
Calcutta . . 

. 
28. All Assistant Iron and Steel 

Controllers , Office of the Iron 
and Steel Controller , Calcutta . 
29 . Assistant Iron and Steel Con 

trollers (Grade I ) , Steel Import 
Division , Iron and Steel Con 

trol, Calcutta . . 
30. Deputy Assistant Iron and 

Steel Controllers in the Steel 
Import Division of the Iron and 

Steel Control, Calcutta . 
31. Deputy Assistant Iron and 

Steel Controller in - charge of 
Quota Section of the Iron and 

Steel Control, Calcutta 
32. Price and Accounts Officer in 

the Price add Accpunts Division 
of the Iron and Steel Control, 

Calcutta 
33. Deputy Price and Accounts 

Officer, in the Price and As 
counts Division of the Iron and 

Steel Control, Calcutta , . 
34 . Deputy Assistant Iron and 

Steel Controller in the Price 
and Accounts Division of the 
Iron and Steel Control, Cal 
cutta 

, 
35 . Deputy Development Officer 

Drugs ) — Chemicals II, Deve 
lopment Wing, Ministry of Com 
merce and Industry . . . 


4 and 5. 


4 and 5. 


( No. SC. (A )-4 (453 ) C . ] 


PART II — SEÇ , 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1966 


667 


ito 


US .R . O . II13 . - ESS. COMM /IRON & STEEL - 15 ( I ) and 16). The following Notification 
issued by the Iron and Steel Controller under Sub - Caluse ( I ) of Clause 15 and Sub - Clause ( I) of 
Clause 27 of the Iron and Steel (Control) Order , 1956 , is hereby published for general information : 


NOTIFICATION 
In exercise of the puwers coaferred by Sub -Ciause ( 1) of Clause 15 and Sub - Clause ( 6 Clause 
27 of the Iron & Steel (Control Order , 1956 and with theapproval ofthe CentralGovt, the Iron 
and Steel Controller is pleased to notify the following Schedule of maximum prices of iron & 
steel ani iron & steel scrap , in supersession of all previous notifications on the subject : 

SCHEDULE I 
TINPLATES 


Size 


Sheetage 


Weight 
(in Lbs.) 


B ham 
Gauge 


Rate per 
box f .o . r , 

Worko 
Siding Tata 

nagar 
(in Rs.) 


Rs. Ag. p . 


COKE UNASSORTED TINPLATE 


171 


250 


XXXXXXXX NNNNNVO 


200 
146 
196 
255 


69 70 
97 60 
75 80 
63 II 0 
83 100 
60 15 
86 2 
113 15 
74 II 
69 10 
62 3 


168 


28 x 20 
28 x 20 
34 X 25 
34 x 25 
28 x 20 
25 X 17 
28 x 20 
34 x 35 
28 X 20 
28 X 20 
28 X 20 
18 . 3 /4 X 14 , 
20 XIO 
20 X 14 
28 X 20 
28 . 1 / 2 X 24 . 1 /2 , 
33 x 20 
28 x 20 
20 X 14 
28 X 20 
28 x 20 
28 x 20 
20 X 14 


Tio 


coas 0000000000000000000000HOWANOWOW 


156 


I24 
225 
IIZ 
II2 
112 


73 


108 


216 


so 
IOI 


1 .26 


56 


ooo XXX 


IIZ 
II2 
IIZ 
112 
II2 
II2 


269 
127 
200 
100 
180 
160 
140 


3006 
30 -6 
31.6 
32 . 5 


34 


70 


ODD SIZES COKE UNASSORTED TINPLATE 


25 
50 
100 


232 
217 


21: 3 


5 


so 


34 X 25 . 
33 X 14 
20X14 
25 X 17 
26 . 1/ 2 X 13 1 / 4 
28 x 20 
20 X 14 . 
35 X 25 . 
29 1 / 2 X 21 . 
20 X 14 
20 X 14 
25 X 17 , 
22 . 3 / 4 X 16 
13 . 1/ 2 X 10 3 /4 


100 
25 


IS2 
217 
200 
ISO 
212 


encWHOWINWUH 00000000000000 


SO 


196 


168 


, 


II2 
112 
112 
II 
II2 


668 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1966 


(PART II - Sec . 8 


2 


3 


Rs, as. p . 


85 


IIZ 
II2 
IIZ 
II2 


102 


154 


171 


556 


If2 


197 
1935 
170 
140 
136 


124 


157 
I12 
64 


140 


hantooowhunaowowna 


140 


52 


282 
124 
225 
112 
112 
II2 
f12 
II2 
II2 
II2 
II2 
112 


136 
113 
III 
162 
197 
175 
213 
199 


244 


NNN 


لياللا 


82 1 
99 13 
93 7 
114 5 
109 II 
IIO I 

88 
II2 
II2 


112 


108 
128 


109 11 


. 


. 


14 XII 
16 . 3 /8X / 1 : 1 / 2 . 
20 X 14 
28 X II 1/ 4 
31 1 / 2 X 23 . . 
31 X 23 
22 X 14 . 
18 : 3 / 4 X 14 . 
20 X IO 
20 X 14 . 
26 . 3 /4 X 18 . 3 /4 . 
30 X 20 . 
13 X 9 . 
18 . 5 / 8 X 14 1 / 4 . 
20 . 1 /4 X 10 . 1 /4 . 
24 . X2°11/ 4 . . 
24 . 1 /2 X 18 - 3 / 4 . 
26 . 1 / 2 X21 . . 
28 X 18 . 3 / 4 . 
28 x 22 . 3 / 16 
28 1 / 2 X 21 : 14 . 
28 . 1/ 2 X 21 3 / 8 . 
28 - 3 / 4 X 17 . 1 / 4 
29X 21 - 1 / 2 
29 1 /4X 21. 1 /4 . 
30 x 20 
30 - 13 / 16 X 21 - 3 / 16 
31 X 19 1 / 2 . 
31 X 18 . 1 / 2 . - 
31 X 23 . 
31. 1/4x8.13/16 
33•1/ 2 X 25. 
14 X 7 - 
18 . 3 / 4 X 12 . . 
26 . 3 /4 X 16 . 1 / 2 . 
26 . 3 /4 X 18 . 3 /4 . 
28 . 1 /4 X 14 1 /8 . 
30 X 21 . . 
31 . 3 / 14 X 21. 1/4 
32 - 3 / 8 X 22 . 
28 X 24 - 1 / 2 
12 1 /2X9 . 
18 - 3 / 4 X 14 
25 . 7 / 16 X 22 . 1 /8 
25 7 / 16 x 24 . 5 / 16 
27 X 14 3 / 4 , . 
27 : 3 / 4 x 23 . 7 / 16 
27 . 5 / 8 X 24 . 1 /2 . 
28 X 27 . 1 / 16 . 
28 . 1/ 2 X 21 . 1 /2 , 
28 . 7 / 8 X 24 . . 
28 7 / 8 x 24 . 1/ 2 . 
29 X 21 . 1 / 2 . 
29 . 1 /4 x 24 . 11/ 16 
29 . 5 / 8 X 17 . 3 / 4 . 
30 X 18 . 3 / 4 . . 
30 . 1 /2 X 24 . 1 / 2 . 
32 . 1 / 2 X21 . 
30 X 20 . 
31 X 19 . 1 / 2 . 
31X21 
31 X 22 
28 X 21 
28 3 /8 X -21- 1 /4 , 
30 % 21. 5 /8 


IIZ 
II2 
II2 
112 
IIZ 
II2 
I56 
332 
144 
II2 
II2 
II2 
II2 

56 
IIZ 
112 
282 
172 
112 


240 
240 
231 
275 
234 
222 
275 
227 
160 
110 
IIO 
169 
193 
1:52 
242 
130 
275 
262 
IIO 
153 
201 
220 
142 


NHANANDANON+Mwa 000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 


71 2 
113 4 
62 3 
129 1 
122 13 

SI 90 
71 14 0 
98 11 
108 I 


. 


. 


30 . 6 


II2 


30 - 6 
30 . 6 


69 U 


30 .6 


114 


II2 
II2 
II2 
112 
112 


232 
242 


30 -6 
30 . 6 


270 
219 


112 


248 


118 
132 15 
107 7 
12I II 
I2I II 
109 10 
126 13 


218 


II2 
II2 
112 


30 . 6 
30 . 6 
30 - 6 
30 . 6 
30 . 6 
30 . 6 


223 


II2 


188 


92 


7 


201 
267 


30 . 6 
30 . 6 


244 


30 . 6 


30 . 6 


II2 
II2 
II ? 
II2 
II2 
II2 
I12 
II2 
II2 
II2 


214 
216 
232 
243 
202 
207 
219 


30 . 6 
30 . 6 
30 . 6 


بي بي بي بنا به ت 


98 
131 
120 
IOS 
Ιο6 ο 
114 I 0 
119 7 0 
IOI 80 
104 2 0 
ITO I 0 


TOMONOK 


PART I - SEC . 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1966 


669 


Rs. as, p . 
47 13 
46 5 


31 . 6 
31. 6 


31 . 6 
21 . 6 


74 


2 


157 


188 


31 - 6 


31 . 6 
31 . 6 


80 14 
96 15 
86 15 
99 14 
95 12 
II2 I2 


OCON 


31 - 6 


124 


31 . 6 


86 


2 


97 


4 


31 . 6 
31 . 6 
31. 6 
31 . 6 


www 


31. 6 


GT41) 


18 - 3 / 4 X 14 
20 X 14 
25 X 17- 7 / 8 
25 . 7 / 8 x 18 - 7 / 8 , 
27 X 21- 5 / 8 
27 - 1 /4 X 19 - 1 / 4 . 
27 - 5 / 16 X 22 - 1 / 8 . 
28X18 3 / 4 . 
28 x 24 . 5 / 16 
28 - 1 / 2 X 18 - 1 / 2 
28 - 1 / 2 X 20 - 5 /8 . 
28- 3 /4 X 18 - 1/ 2 

- 8 - 7 / 8 X 25 - 3 / 4 
" 29 X 22 . 1 / 2 , 
29 - 1/ 4 X 24 . 11 / 16 
29 - 1 / 2 X 20 - 1 /4 . 
30X21 

. 
30 - 1 / 4 X 25 - 1/ 4 . 
30 - 3 /4X 23 - 7 / 16 . 
31 X 21 
21 X 22 
31 X 23 
30 x 20 
28 - 3 /8 X 17 - 3 /8 . 
27- 5 / 16 X 18 - 5 / 8 . 
20 X 14 . 
27- 5 / 16 X 28- 5 /8 . 
28 - 3 /4X20- 3 /4 . 
29 X 16 - 3 / 8 
29 X 18 - 5 / 8 
29 X 23 - 5 /8 
29 - 7 /8 x 24 - 7 /8 
22 - 1 / 4 X 18 - 1 / 2 
25 - 1 /4 X 22 
25 - 1 /2 X 18 - 1 /2 . 
25 - 1 / 2 X 21 
27 - 3 / 4 X 18 - 1/ 2 . 
28- 3 /8 X 21- 3 / 16 


31 . 6 
31 . 6 
31 6 
31 . 6 
31 . 6 
316 
31. 6 
31. 6 
31 . 6 
31 . 6 
32 5 


123 12 0 
108 2 0 
119 8 0 
98 12 
104 70 
126 13 
119 
107 


ova3ooohy 0000000000000000000000OOOOOOOOOO000000 


219 


112 


193 


117 5 
99 7 
81 5 


32 . 5 


79 6 
43 7 0 
99 ISO 


или 


124 
II2 
112 

144 
II2 
112 
II2 

169 
TIZ 

186 
112 

219 
I12 

167 
112 

189 
II2 

171 
II2 

240 
112 

210 
112 

232 
112 

192 
112 

203 
II2 

246 
112 

232 
II2 

209 
II2 
112 
JI2 
112 

158 
II2 

146 
112 

80 
112 
112 

170 
TI2 
I12 

154 
II2 

196 
112 
II2 

103 
II2 

139 
112 
112 

134 
II2 

II2 
BEST GOKE TINPLATE 

50 

250 
176 

200 
112 

170 

193 5 
56 

140 
172 

153 
225 

156 
IIZ 

216 
112 

201 
II2 

232 
II2 
112 
II 

199 
I12 

213 
112 

100 
112 

140 
CHARCOAL No. I TINPLATE 

196 


139 


106 
IIS 


212 


118 


128 


76 12 
89 150 


150 


28 


30 


SO 


28 x 20 
33 x 22 
28 x 20 
22 X 14 . 
31X23 
28 x 20 
18 . 3 / 4 X 14 . 
20X10 
28 X 20 
26 - 7 / 16 X 22 - 1 /8 . 
27. 3 / 4 X 23 - 7 / 16 . 
28 X 21 . . 
30 X 27- 15 / 16 . 
28 - 1 / 2 X 21- 3 / 4 . 

8 - 3 / 8 X 23 - 3 / 16 . 
28 x 20 
28 x 20 , 


108 


30 - 6 


202 


106 
122 13 
109 IO 
1505 
110 15 
118 12 


31 
31 . 6 
31 6 
31 . 6 
32 : 5 


260 


onainavaoouviu OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


94 7 
91 8 


56 


. 
. 


56 


184 


NNNNN 


2 


28 x 20 
28- 5 /8 X 18 - 3 / 4 
28 - 1 / 4 X 20 - 3 /4 
28 x 20 
28 X 20 
28 x 20 . 


201 
150 
200 
216 


بيادتاہم 


Nu 


10 30 
95 4 0 
104 2 0 
III I O 
97 2 0 
131 90 


50 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


24 
30 


112 


670 


THE GAZETTE OF 


JIA , MAY 12, 1958 


[PART II 


- 8 


Rs, ag . p . 


CHARCOAL No. II TIN - LATE 

197 


56 


102 


136 


ΙΙ9 


31- 1 /2 X 23 
30 X 20 . . 
18 - 5 / 8 X 14 - 1/ 4 . . 
25- 7 / 16 X 22 - 1 /8 
27- 3/4 X 23 - 7 / 16 
25 - 7 / 16 X 24- 5 / 16 . 
30 - 1 / 4 X 28- 378 . 
28 - 7 /8 X 25- 3 / 4 . 
29 X 22 - 1/ 2 
30 X 20 . 


125 
II2 
II2 
112 

50 
I12 
II2 
112 


133 


30 . 6 
30 . 6 
30 . 6 
30 . 6 


III 
201 
232 
220 
153 
240 
210 
193 


130 


NowaDOOWA 


0000000000 


92 


21 . 6 
31 . 6 


150 
131 II 
121 2 


CONDITIONS FOR SALE 

PART I - GENERAL 
The prices shown in the above Schedule and the other provißions relevant thereto as set forth 
below , shall come into force with effect from the date on which they are published in the Gazette 
of India ard notwithstanding the rates at which an order has been booked and /or materials paid for , 
shall apply to all deliveries effected enor after that date. In all cases where delivery is effected by 
rall, the date of the Railway receipt shall be decmed to be the date of delivery . 
PART II - SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALE BY THE TINPLATE CO. OF INDIA LTD . CALCUTTA 

A . To Customers other than Controlled Stockholders. 
(a ) In respect of sales by Messrs , Tinplate Co . of India Ltd ., Calcutta , lo custo ECTS onher than 
the Controlled Stockholders , the rate notified in the Schedule of Prices shall apply fo.r . Siding 
Tatanagar . 

(b ) Octroi and Salcs or other taxes incurred in the process of delivery of materials from Seller s 
yard or siding to Customers will be borne by the latter. 


B . To Controlled Stockholders 
(a ) The prices notified in this Schedule shall apply f.or., Works Siding, Tatanagar . In 
order to arrive at the prices for matelas ordered for delivery at Controlled Stockholders Siding or 
Yard gituated at Ambala Cantt., Bombay , Calcutta , Delhi, Kanpur and Madras place exuia at tho 
following rates shall be added to th¢80 prices : 


Place extra 

per ton 
Tinplates . 


Rs. as. p . 
86 14 0 
95 00 


Ambala Cantt. 
Bombay 
Calcutta 
Delhi 
Kanpur 
Madras 


000000 


79 
57 
89 


7 
2 
4 


(b ) Octroi and Sales or other taxes incurred during the transit of the materials into the Stock 
yard shall be borne by the Controlled Stockholders in the first instance . 


PART III - SALES BY CONTROLLED STOCKHOLDERS 


(a ) Sales by Controlled Stockholders shall be effected at the rates calculated as nutifed in Pait 
IIB aboye plus Stockists remuneration of Rs. 40 / - per ton . These prices are f. o . 1. Stockholder s 
Siding or ex -yard against cash payment and are exclusive of delivery charges. 

(6 ) The quçstion of credit facilities is a matter for negotiation between the customer and the 
Stockholder . 


11 


, 8 ] 


GA 


OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1966 


671 


( c) Delivery charges are not admissible if delivery is made ex - yard or f.0. r. Şiding or into 
Workshop adjoining Sotckists Stock yard . Wheic delivery is undertaken by Controlled Stock 
holders at the requcst of the buyer , delivery charges shall not, cxcept by special arrangement be 
tween the stockholder and buyer exceed the following rates : 


Rate per ton 

Rş. as. p 


ro oo 
το ο ο 


Bombay 
Calcutta 
Delhi 
Капри 
Madras 
Ambala Cantt. 


иаол65 


Å000000 


8 
0 


( d ) Octroi and Sales or other taxes levied on Steel entering the Controlled Stock holders 
Yard by the Government of Local Authority of the Province of Town where the Stockyard is 
situated and similar taxes incurred in the process of delivery of materials from Seller s yard or 
siding to the customer shall be borne by the latter . 


- PART IV - SALES BY PERSONS OTHER THAN THE TINPLATĘ CO . OF INDIA LID , AND CONIROLI ED 

STOCKHOLDERS 
The rates and other charges fixed for sales by Controlled Stockholders in Part III above shall 
be applicable to gales by persons other than the Tinplate Co. of India and Controlled Stockholders 
unless otherwise directed by the Iron and Stcel Controller. 


SCHEDULE II 
WIRE AND WIRE PRODUCTS 


( Prices in rupees per fon ) 


Maximum base prices per ton F . Q . R , Calcutta , 

Bombay , Madras , Tatanagar and Burnpoie. 


Itcm 
No 


Materials 


Col, I 
For sale by 

Registered 
Producers 


Col. II 
For sales by 
Controlled 
Stockbolders 


Col. III 
For sales by 
all persons other 
than Registered 
Producers and 

Controlled 
Stockholders 


Tested 


Un 
tested 


Un - 
tested 


Tested 


Un - 
tested 


Tested 


713 


760 
764 


678 
719 
792 
.. 


725 
729 
836 
896 


738 
779 
852 


785 
789 
896 
956 


- 827 


I. Hard Bright Wire 2 to 3 S . W .G . , 
2 . Annealed Wire 2 to 3 S. W .G . . 
3. Galvanised Wire 2 to 3 S. W .G . , 
4. Telegraph Wire 2 to 3 S.W .G . . 

Barbed Wire 12G Strand with 14G 
- Barb . . . . . 
6. Wire Nails 2 to 3 S. W .G . . 
7. Spring Steel Wire ( 45 % to -55 % 

Carbon Content) , . : 
8, Sigral Wire Galvanised 48 to 54 

tons T . S . . . . . 


918 


1,003 


801 


941 


. 


1,815 


2, 265 


. 


2 ,031 


. 


2 , 101 


. . 


2 ,551 


672 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


( PART II — SEC. 1 


SCHEDULE OF EXTRAS 
Extra in Rupees per ton ) 

GAUGES 


3-6 


7 -9 


10 - 12 13 - 14 


15 


16 


17 - 18 19 -20 21-22 


• 


40 


H , B . Wire 2 to 3 S . W . G . . 
Annealed Wire 2 to 3 S . W . G . 
Galvd . Wire 2 to 3 S . W . G . 
Telegraph Wire 2 to 3 S . W . G . 
Wire Nails 2 to 3 $ . W . G . . 


uruvira 


center 


vaatia 


40 


60 


105 


: 


: 


: 


: 


Spring Steel Wire 


. 


140 
280 


840 


( I ) . 55 % lu 65 % Carbon Content 
( 2 ) 65 % to 75 % Carbon Content 
(3 ) 80 % and upwaids Carbon Content 
( 4 ) for Bright Copper Coating . 
( 1) 60 to 70 tons Tensile Strength 
( 2 ) 70 to 8o tons Tensilc Strength 
( 3 ) 80 to go tons Terīsile Sticngth 


280 


Signal Wire 


. 


. 


140 


280 
840 


CONDITIONS FOR SALE 

PART I – GINERAL 


The prices shown in the above Schedule and the other provisions relevant thereto as set forth 
below , shall come into force with effect from the date on which they are published in the Gazette 
of India and notwithstanding the rates at which an order has been booked and or materials paid for , 
shall apply to all deliveries effected on or after that date . In all cases where delivery is effected by 
rail, the date of the Railway Receipt shall be deemed to be the date of delivery . 

2. Prices for Tested materials apply only where a copy of Test Certificate recognised by the 
Government of lndia is supplied with the materials. 

3 . Tested materials must be within the tolerance specified ; untested materials must be within 
the usual commercial tolerance. 

4 . Prices for wire include coiling ; prices for nails include packing in boxca or Gunny bags. 
PART II — SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALES BY THE INDIAN STEEL AND WIRE PRODUCTS LID ., 

INDRANAGAR 
A . To customers other than Controlled Stockholders. 

(1) Sales in wagon loads by the Indian Steel and Wire Products Ltd ., shall be effected at f.o.r 
destination rate. 

( 2 ) In order to arrive at the chargeable rate for full wagon load for destinations other than 
Bombay , Clacutta , Madras, Tatanagar and Burnpore the Place Extraş as given in the Freight 
(Place Extras ) List at Appendix I, shall be added to the Port Base prices. For any place not In 
cluded in that list, the Place Extra will be determined with reference to the actual Railway freight 
from the nearest of the above 5 Ports except that for places which are not within 250 miles of the 
Ports of Tatanagar or Blunpore , the Place Extras will be determined with reference to the three 
ports of Calcutta , Bombay and Madras . In any dispute regarding the place extra, the decision 
the Iron and Steel Controller shall be final, 

(3 ) Wherç wagons are not fully loaded , the customcı shall pay the difference between the actual 
freight per ton and the amount of freight per ton which would have been incurred if the wagon 
had been fully loaded . 

( 4 ) For deliverics by Rail in smalls by the Indian Steel and Wire Products Ltd ., sales shall be 
made at f.o .r. Tatanagar basis without any Place Extra , actual Railway freight from Tatanagar to 
destination shall be payable by the purchaser. 

(5 ) If the materlals , sold f.or, destination are at the customer s request despatched by any 
route other than the cheapest, the diffcrencc in freight shall be borne by the customer . 


PART II - SEC , 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


673 


= 


(6 ) Octroi, Sales or other taxes incurred during the process of delivery of materials from 
Indian Steel & Wire Products Ltd . s Works or siding to customers shall be borne by the latter. 


the 


B . To Controlled Stockholders. 
( 1 ) All sales to Controlled Stockholders will be made on f.0 . 1, destination basis by adding 

appropriate Place Extras wherever necessary to Port prices fas mentioned in clause 
No . (2 ) Part II A above ] and will apply to deliveries at the Controlled Stockholders 

Siding, if any or to their nearest railway station . 
( 2 ) Octroi and Sales and other taxes incurred during the transit of thematerials into the stock - 

yatd shall be paid by the Controlled Stockholders. 


PART III - SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALES BY CONTROLLED STOCKHOLDERS 
( 1) Sales by controlled Stockholders shall be effected at the rates shown in Col, II of the 

Schedule of Prices plus the place extra as given in the Freight (Place Extras ) List at Appen 

dix I for the place at which the Stockyard is located . 
( 2 ) The question of credit facilities is a matter for negotiation between the customer and the 

stockholders .. 
( 3 ) Delivery charges are not admissible if delivery is made ex yard or f.o . r. siding or into work 

shops adjoining Stockholder Yard . Where dellvery is undertaken by Controlled Stock 
holders at the requçst ofthe buyer , delivery charges exceptby special arrangement between 
the Sotckholders and Buyer , should not exceed the following rates . 


Rate per ton 


Rate per ton 


Rs. A . P . 

Rs. A . P . 
Ambala 5 0 0 Kanpur 

8 00 
Bombay IO O O Madras 

6 8 0 
Clacutta тo o o Nagpur 

$ 00 
Delhi (Old & New ) 5 12 0 Cuttack 

7 0 0 
(4 ) Octroi and Sales or other taxes levicd on steel entering the Controlled Stockholders Yard 

by the Government or Local Authority of the Province or Town where the stockyard 
is situated and similar taxes incurred in the process of delivery of materials from Seller s 
Yard or Siding to the Customer shall be borne by thc latter . 


PART IV - SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALES BY ALL PARSONS OTHER THAN THE INDIAN STEEL AND 

WIRE PRODUCTS LTD ., AND CONTROLLED STOCKHOLDERS. 


Persons other than the Indian Steel and Wire Products and Controlled Stockholders are 
entitled to charge the maximum prices given in Column III of the Schedule of prices which shall 


the Supplier from whom they may have received the materials. Octroi, Sales and other taxes 
levied on steel entering the Seller s Yard by the Government or the Local Authority of the Pro 
vince or Town where the stockyard is situated and similar taxes incurred lo the process of delivery 
ofmaterials from Seller s Yard or Siding to Customer shall be borne by the latter . 


674 


SCHEDULE HII 

PIG IRON 
Standard Grades. 
(High Manganese) 


Analysis 


Maximum Base selling Prices 
per ton at Calcutta , Bombay , 
Madras, Tatanagar & Burnpore 


Serial 


No. 


Grade 


Silicon 
per cent. 


COL II 


Nianganese 
per cent 


Phosphorus 
per cent 


Sulphur 
per cent. 


Col. 1 


. 


Rs. 163 


Under 0 . 035 
Under 0 .050 


. 


- 


. 


2 . 


Rs. 159 


1. Standard Foundry 

Do . 
Do. 
Do. 


: 


: 


3 . 


Rs. 178 
Rs. 174 
Rs. 170 
Rs. 168 
Rs. 166 


#. 


. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,MAY12,1966 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Rs. 155 
Rs. 153 
Rs. 151 
Rs. 149 
Rs. 147 


4 


5 . Special . . 
6 . Special Basic . 
7 . Standard Basic . 


Rs. 164 


2 .75 – 3 : 25 1. 00 - 1 . 50 Under 0 . 40 
2 - 25 — 2 -75 
1 75 — 2 : 25 
1 . 501. 75 
1 . 25 — I 50 

Under 0 . 35 
1 . 00 - 1. 25 
1 . 00 & under 

( Low Manginese Grades). 
2. 75 — 3 2 ; 0 . 50 _ 1. 0 Under 0 .40 
2. 25 – 2 .75 

Under 0 - 40 
1. 75 — 2 -25 » Under 0 -40 
1. 50 – 1 .75 

Under 0 .40 
1: 25 — 1 : 50 

Under 0 .35 
1 : 00 1. 25 

Under 0 . 35 
Į . 00 & 

Under 0 -35 
under 


. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 1. 
. 2. 
. 3 . 


RS. 161 
Rs. 157 
Rs. 153 


8 . Low Manganese . . 

Do. . . . 
IO . Do . . . . . 

Do. . . . 
12. Special . . . . 
13. Low Manganese basic special 
14 . Low Manganese basic . 


Under 0 035 
Under 0 . 050 
Uoder 0 . 050 
Under 0 . 050 
Under 0 .050 
Under 0 .050 
Under 0 .050 


Rs. 151 


Rs. 176 
Rs. 172 
Rs. 168 
Rs. 166 
Rs. 164 
Rs. 162 
Rs. 160 


. 


. 


. 4. 


Rs. 149 


[PARTII-SEC. 


Rs. 147 
Rs. 145 


. 


. 


. 


The above prices are subject to the following further quality extras/Penalties , 

Extras and Penalties, 


PARTII-SEC,3] 


Variation from Standard Grades 


Extrasy 
Penalties 


Base Price 
items to which 

applicable 


Variation from Standard 

Grades 


Extras) 
Penalties 


Base Price 
items to which 

applicable 


Extras per ton 


Penalty per 


ton 


Rs. 4 


Item 


1 & 8 


Rs. 25 


Item 


1 -- 14 


A . II) High Silicon for each increase of 0 . 50 % above 

3 : 25 % . . . . . . 
( 2) Manganese for each 0 . 50 % increase above 
1 . 506 

. . 
Of Grade Ric Team 
B . (1) Standard Sulphur Manganese belop 0 . 50 


( 3 ) Manganese not below 0 . 50 % , Sul 

phur 0 . 066 % - 0 . 08000 . . . 
(4 ) Manganese not below 0 . 50 % , 

Sulphur 0 . 081 % and over 


Rs. 30 


Item 


1 - 14 


Rs. 2 Item 1 - 7 
Penalty per 1077 

Rs. 12 Item 8 - 14 


As. 19 


Item 8 - 14 


( 2 ) Manganese not below 0 . 50 % , Sulphur 0 - 50 % 

0 . 065 ) . . . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,MAY12,1956 


Rs. 14 


Item 


(5 ) Manganese beloy 0 . 50 % , Sulphur 

0 . 5076 - - 0 .065 %6 
(6 ) Manganes e below 0 . 50 % , Sulphur 

0 . 066º . - 9 . 080 . 
(7 ) Manganese below 0 - 50 % , Sulphur 

0 . 081 % and over 


1 - 14 


Rs. 27 


Item 


& - 14 


Rs. 32 


Item 


8 - 14 


675 


676 


THE -GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


[PART II — Sec . 3 


SSSSSS 


CONDITIONS FOR SALE 


PART I – GENERAL 
I. In respect of sales by Registered Producers and by all persong other than 
Registered Producers the prices in Columns I and II of the above schedule and 
the other provisions of this Notification relevant thereto , shall come into force with 
cffect from the date on which they are notified in the Gagette of India and notwithstanding 
the rartes at which orders have been booked , shall apply to all deliverica effected on and after this 
date . In cases of deliveries effected by rail , the date of Railway Receipt shall be deemed to be the 
date of delivery , and for deliveries by road the date of delivery is the date on which the Pig Iron 
leaves the Works , Stock Yard or Godown. 


2 . To arrive at the prices for places other than Calcutta , Bombay, Madras , Tatanagar and 
Burnpore place cxtras given in Appendix II are to be added . For any place not included in Appen 
dix II, the place Extra will be determined with reference to the actual Railway frcight of Pig Irony 
in wagon load from the nearest of the above 5 ports except that for places which are not within 250 
miles of the ports of Tatanagar or Burnporc the place extra will be determined with reference to the 
three ports of Calcutta , Bombay and Madras . In any dispute regarding the place Extra , the decision 
of the Iron and Steel Controller shall be final. 


3 . If materials sold f.o .r , destination are despatched at Customer s request by any route other 
than the cheapest, the difference in freight will be borne by the customers. 


4 . The Base prices adjusted for place extras are subject to the further quality extras and 
differentials as shown in the Schedule . 


PART II. - - SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALES BY REGISTERED PRODUCERS 
I. For deliveries by rajl in smalls by Producers the sale will be made f.o .r . despatching 

station and in " full wagon loads" f.or, destination station , 
2 . Octroi and Sales or other taxes incurred in the process of delivering materials to 

customers will be borne by the latter , 


PART III . - SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALES BY CONTROLI ED 

STOCKHOLDERS 
All sales by Controlled Stockholders are ex - yard or f.o . r. Siding. No extra charge is ad 
missible when delivery is made ex -yard or ſ.o .r . Siding or into Workshops adjoining Stockholders 
yard . Where dellvery is undertaken by Controlled Stockholders at the request of the buyer , 
dclivery charges shall not, except by special asrangement between the Stockholder and buyer , 
excecd the following rates : 


Rs. A . P . Per ton 


0 


. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


0 


Calcutta . . . 
Bombay . . 
Delhi (Old & New ) , 
Kanpur . . 
Madras . . 
Vizianagram . . 
Jujlundur 


. 


0 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


6 8 0 
300 


. 


PART IV . SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALES BY ALL PERSONS OTHER THAN REGISTERED PRODUCERS 


Octroi and salca or other taxes levied on Pig Iron entering the Seller s yard by the Government 
or the local authority of the State or Town where the stockyard is situated and similar taxes incurred 
in the process of delivery of materials from Seller s yard or giding to the customers shall be borne 


PART II- SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


677 


by the latter. Any sales tax paid by the seller to a Registered Producer shall also be borne by the 
customer - 


SCHEDULE IV 


OTHER CATEGORIES OF IRON AND STEEL 


(Price in rupees per ton ) 


Maximum Base Prices at Calcutta , Bombay , Madra " , 

Tatanagar , and Burnpore 
Col. I 

Col. II Col. III 


price 


Materials 


Item 


No. 


For sales by 
Registered 
Producers 


For sales by 

Controlled 
Stock - holders 


For sales by all 

persons other 
than Registered 
Producers and 

Controlled 
Stock - holders 


Un - 
tested 


Tested 


Un - 
tested 


Tested 
* 


Un -, Tested 
tested 


550 


535 


585 


550 


600 


495 


540 


525 


575 


540 


590 


560 


545 


595 


560 


610 


TOO 


673 


688 


aut 


638 
648 
648 


635 
650 


580 


I Bars & Rods (Rounds & Squares 505 

below 3 " and Flats upto and 

including 5" wido ). 
2 Bars other sizes (Rounds and 

Squares 3 " and above and 

Flats over 5 " wide). 
3 Structurals, Bearing Plates & 
S15 

Crossing Sleeper Bars. 
4 Plates, 3 /8 " and up . . . 
Chequered Plates 1 / 4 " and up . 

bos 
Boiler Plates, 3 /8 " and up . 
Black sheets gauge 10 to 14 
Galvanised Corrugated Sheets 

gauge 24 in lengths 6 / 10 ft. 
9 (a ) Heavy Rails above 30 lbs. . 

(6 ) Heavy Rails Second Class . 
10 Fish Plates for Heavy Rails 

$ 92 
II Light Rails 30 lbs . & below 
12 Fish Plates for Light Rails 
13 Tool Steel Bers ( TSC - 2 /2A ) 
14 Bullet Proof Plates Specn . , 

IT /7TC . 
15 Shell Steel Blooms 8" & 10 " 

Squares . 
16 Shell Steel Bars 5 /8 " to 6 " dia . 

and Gothic Sec . 


683 
683 
615 
770 


735 


535 


565 


то 


695 


595 


62 


595 


210 


7ΙΟ 


620 
810 


655 
840 


550 


585 


560 


595 


385 
405 


395 
415 


420 


410 
430 


435 
455 


440 


1 , 155 
1 , 205 


1 , 175 
1 ,225 


17 (a ) Booms and Slabs 

( b ) Billets . . . 
18 Box Strapping : 
( a ) 3 / 4 " x 24 BG . . 

I , 120 
(6 ) 1/ 2" X 24/26 BG . 

1 , 170 
19 Baling Hoops in coils over 100 ft . 

in length : 
(a ) 3/4" x 19/20 BG . . . 800 
(6) I" X I/16 . . . 680 


. 


835 
715 


. . 
.. 


855 
735 


.. . 
.. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1966 


[PART II — SEO. 3 


CONDITIONS FOR SALE 


PART I. - GENERAL 
The prices shown in the above Schedule and the other provisions relevant thereto as set 
forth below , shall come into force with effect from the date on which they are published in the 
Gaxette of India and notwithstanding the rates at which an order has been booked and /or the 
materiala paid for , shall apply to all deliveries effected on or after that date . In all cases where 
delivery is effected by rail, the date of the Railway Receipt shall be deemed to be the date of 
delivery, 


2 . To arrive at the base prices for places other than Calcutta , Bombay , Madras, Tatanagar 
and Burnpore the Place extras given in the Freight (Place extra ) List at Appendix I, are to be 
taken into account in the manner indicated in the Special Conditions below : 


For any place not included in that List, the Placc Extra will be determined with reference 
to the actual railway freight from the ncarest of the above five ports except that for places which 
are not within 250 miles of the Ports of Tatanagar or Burnpore, the Place Extras will be determined 
with reference to the three ports of Calcutta , Bombay and Madras. In any dispute regarding 
the Place Extras, the decision of the Iron and Stecl Controller shall be final, 

3 . The base prices adjusted for place extras are for standard lengths and sizes and are sub 
Ject to the extras and differentials shown in the Extras Ligt at Appendix III . 

4 . Prices for tested materials apply only where a copy of Test Certificate recognised by the 
Government of India is supplied with the materials . 

Tested materials must be within the tolerance specified ; untested materials must be within 
the usual commercial tolerance. 

5. The chargeable weight in cases of Bars ( 1 /2 " and over ), Structurals, Platca and Rails 19 
Sectional weight and in cases of Rods (below 1 / 2 " ), Semis , and Sheets is Actual weight. In the 
case of materials sold on sectional weight to a tested specification which allows only a plus tolerance 
( e . g ., Boiler Plates ) the chargeable weight will be the theoretical weight plus half the tolerance . 

s ( a ). The weight tolerance admissible for untested materials is plus/minus 4 % and for 
tested materials plus/minus 2 1/ 2 % . In casc the Railway Receipt weight ( actual weight 
of such materials as are chargeable on the basis of sectional weight is within the above prescribed 
weight tolerances ( except in case of those tested materials which allow only a plus tolerance & . g . 
Boiler plates ) the sectional weight should be accepted as correct . 

PART II. - SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALES BY REGISTERED PRODUCERS. 
1. Where , in accordance with the conditions of sale , sales are made f.o . r. destination by a 
Registered Producer , the rates shown in Column I above adjusted by adding the place extra for 
The destination apply to all such deliveries in wagon loads , irrespective of whether the materials 
are gent under M . C . Note or R . M . C . rate. Where wagong are not fully loaded the customers 
shall pay the difference between the actual frcight per ton and the amount of freight per ton which 
would have been incurred if the wagon had been fully loaded . Where , in accordance with the 
conditions of sale, sales are made by a Registered Producer ex -works or f. o. r. Seller s Siding, the 
rates in Column I above adjusted by adding the Place Extra for the place in which the works are 
situated , shall apply to such sales . Sales in wagon loads by the Main Producers will normally 
be effected f.o . 1, Destination and sales by Registered Producers other than Main Producers will 
Dormally be effected ex -works or f.o . i. Seller s Siding. A list of Registered Producers is given 
below . 

2 . For deliveries by rail in smalls by the Main Producers the sale should be made f. 0 . 1 . 
Despatching Station and the base rate shall be adjusted by adding the Place Extra for the Des 
patching Station . In such cases the actual freightmust be borne by the buyer. 

3 . If materials sold f.o . 1. Destination are at the Customer s request despatched by a route 
other than the cheapest , the difference in freight will be borne by the customer , 

4 . Octroi, Sales and other taxes incurred in the process of delivery of materials from Seller s 
yard or Siding to customer will be borne by the latter . 

5 . All sales to Controlled Stockholders by all Registered Producers including the Main 
Producers will be made at f.or, destination prices and will apply to deliveries at the Stockholders 
siding , if any, or to his nearest Railway Station . 


6 . In respect of supplies to consignces in the Dominion of Pakistan on f.o .b . Calcutta basis , 
extra charges ( exclusive of any duty or tax payable under any law for the time being in force ) as 
fixed by the Controller , in consultation with the Steel Price Negotiations Committee , from time 
to time, will be payable . This extra charge has been fixed at Rs. 20 /- per ton for the 
time being, 


PART II-+ SEC , 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1958 


679 


PART III — SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALĖS BY CONTROLLED STOCK HOLDERS 
I . The rates shown in Column II above apply to all sales by Controlled Stockholders 
and are subject to the Place Extra given in the Freight ( Place Extras) List at Appendix I for the 
place in which the Stockyard of the Controlled Stockholder is situated . 

2 . All sales by Controlled Stockholders are ex -yard or f.o.t. Siding . No extra charge is 
admissible when delivery is made ex -yard or f.o . r. Siding or into workshops adjoining Stockholder s 
yard . For such sales the charges incurred for loading the stoel in the wagons or lorries should 
be borne by the Controlled Stockists. Where delivery is undertaken by Controlled Stockholder 
at the requcst of the buyer , delivery charges shall not, except by special arrangement between 
the stockholder and buyer , exceed the following rates - 


Hantnonoca 


wanaotuvõõua 


OOD0000> 000000087 


Ambala 

Per Ton . 
2 . Bombay . 

O O Per Ton . 
Calcutta 

Per Ton . 
Cuttack 

O Per Ton . 
Delhi (Old and New ) 

O Per Ton . 
Jullundur 

o Per Ton . 
Kanpur . . 

0 0 Per Ton . 
Madras . 

6 8 0 Per Ton . 
Nagpur 

5 0 0 Per Ton . 
IO . Vizianagram 

Oo Per Ton . 
3 . The ratey in Column II above are for cas1 ales. The question of credit facilities will 
be a matter for negotiations between the Customers and the Controlled Stockholders. 

4 . Octroi, Sales and other taxes levied on steel entering the Controlled Stockholder s yard 
by the Government or the Local Authority of the State or Town where the stockyard is situated 
and similar taxes incurred in the process of delivery of materials from Seller s yard or Siding to 
the Customer shall be borne by the latter . 

s . The base prices in Column II above are for sizes and lengths available in stock Custo 
mers requiring material cut to lengths or sizes not available in stock will be required to pay cutting 
and wastage charges agreed between Customers and the Stockholders, 


PART IV - SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALES BY ALL PERSONS OTHER THAN PRODUCERS 

AND CONTROLLED STOCK HOLDERS 
I . The base rates given in Column III above are ex - site and apply to saler by all persono 
other than Producers and Controlled Stockholders and are subject to the Place Extras given in 
the Freight (Place Extras ) List at Appendix I for the place where the material is lying and are 
not subject to additional charges for cutting or for credit facilitics . 

2 . Octroi, Sales and other taxes levied on stcel entering the Stockholder s yard by the Govern 
ment or the Local Authority of the State or Town where the stockyard is situated and similar 
taxes incurred in the process of delivery of materials from Seller s yard or Siding to the Customer 
shall be borne by the latter . 


ܕܲ܀GGGܗ݁ܗܪܩܪ܀ܗ݁ܟ݁; 


List of Registered Producers 
1 . Messrs . Tata Iron and Steel Co . Ltd ., 23B , Netaji Subhas Road , Calcutta (Main Producer ). 

Indian Iron and Steel Co. Ltd ., 12 , Mission Row , Calcutta (Main Producer ). 
3 . 2 

Tinplate Co . of India , Ltd ., 4 , Bankshall Street, Calcutta , 
Eagle Rolling Mills Ltd ., Kumardhubi. 
Indian Steel & Wire Products Ltd ., Indranagar, P . O . Tatanagar (Main Froducer ). 
Indian Steel Rolling Mills , Ncgapatam . 
Guest, Keen , Williams, Ltd ., 41, Chowringhcc Road , Calcutta . 

J. K , Iron and Steel Co. Ltd ., Kamla Tower, Kanpur . 
National Iron and Steel Co. Ltd ., Stephen House, 4, Dalhousic Sq., Calcutta , 

Bhartja Electric Steel Co . Ltd ., 42 , Shibtala Street, Calcutta . 
II. - Singh Engineering Works Ltd., Post Box No. 66 , G . T . Road , Kanpur. 

Delhi Iron and Steel Co . Ltd ., Grand Trunk Road , Ghaziabad . 
13 . 3 Lauls Ltd ., Faridabad Township . 
14 . » Cawnpore Rolling Mills Ltd ., Harrisganj, Kanpur. 

Taj Iron and Steel Works, Ltd ., 247, Ripon Road , Byculla , Bombay . 


IO . 


12 . 


TS 


680 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


[PART IISec . 3 


- 


16. Messrs . Batala Engineering Co . Ltd., Batala, E . Punjab . 
17. » 

Sri Rama Machinery Corporation Ltd ., Sundar Mahal, 55 , Peter Road, Cathedral 

Post, Madras. 
Prakash Engineering Co . and Rolling Mills,, Freegunj, Agra City , 
Hindusthan Iron and Steel Co ., 8 , Rajendra Deb Road , Calcutta . 

Partap Steel Rolling Mills , Chhcharta , E . Punjab . 
21. 

Mukand Iron and Steel Works Ltd ., Agra Road , Kurla , Bombay. 
22 . » 

Bhartia Steel and Engineering Co. Ltd ., 61, Keshab Şen Street , Calcutta . 
23. 

Mysore Iron and SteelWorks , Bhadravati, Mysore (Main Producer). 
24 . 

Krishna Steel Industries Ltd ., Krishna Niwas, 301, Musid Bunder Road , Bombay . 
25 . 

National Rolling and Steel Ropes, Ltd ., Stephen House , 4 , Dalhousie Square , 

Calcutta . 
26. 

Man Industrial Corporation Ltd ., Near Loco - Jaipur, Jaipur. 
27. >> Bombay Steel Rolling Mills Ltd ., 33 , Netaji Subhas Road , Calcutta - 1. 

J. K . Steel Ltd ., 7 , Council House Street, Calcutta . 
Hind Wire Industries Ltd ., P - 16 , Kalakar Street , Calcutta. 


13 


SCHEDULE V 
IRON AND STEEL SCRAP 
PART I- A - FRESH UNUSED DEFECTIVE AND CUTTINGS 


Maximum basic prices per tonal 
Calcutta , Bombay , Madras, Tata 
nagar and Burnpore. 


Item 
No. 


Description or Classification of materials 


Col. I Col, II Col. III 
For sales For sales For sales 
by Cont- by Scrap by all per 
rolled Sour- Merchants song other 
ces other who have than those 
than those been dec - mentioned 
mentioned lared Con - in Cols . I 
in Col. II trolled Şour - and II 


ces 


Rs. 


Rs. 


RA 


I . Bars and Rods Mild Steel (Rounds and Squares 

below 3 " and Flats upto and including 5 " 
wide) - Defective or Rejected - Bars above 
s long and Rods above 8 - - Base . 


460 


485 


505 


400 


425 


445 


514 


539 


559 


2 . Fielplates - Defective or Rejected for heavy or 
ralls . . . . 

. 
3. Plates Defective or Rejected - -full - size - 3 /8 " 

and up thick - Basa 
4 . Plates - Chequered 1/4 ” and up Defective or 

Rejected Full size - Base . . . 
5. Rails - Steel - Defective or Rejected above 

12 and up long . . . 

( a ) Light . . . . . . 
(h ) Heavy . . . . . 


530 


555 


575 


460 


505 


485 
475 


450 


495 


PART 11 - SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1966 


681 


B 


E 


- 


- - 


m2 


Rs. 


Rs. 


315 


340 


360 


6 . Semus Defective or Rejected (Ingots, Blooms, 

Billets - over 4 " , Slabs over 3 " thick ). 
7 . Sheets 

(a ) Black Defective or Rejected and cut 

down over 24 " width and not below 4 . 
in length , 10 / 14G - Base . 

. 


475 


500 


520 


(6 ) Black - Cuttings - over 24 " in width and 

between 2 to 4 in length - 10 / 14G with 
stickers - Base 


440 


460 


670 


695 


715 


500 


475 
425 


520 
470 


450 


8 . Sheets — Galvanised Corrugated 

Defective or Rejected and Spotted - Full 

size 24 gauge - Base . . 
9. Sleepers - Steel — Defective or Rejected 

(a ) Metre Gauge . . . . . 

5 Broad Gauge . . . . . 
10 . Sleeper Bars — Defective or Rejected g and 

above . . . . . . . 
II. Structurals ( including Bars , Rounds and 

Squares 3 " and above und Flats above 5" 
wide)- Defective , Rejected and non 

standard over 9 long -. - Base , . . . 
12. Tinplate waste wastefull size all gauges , . 


360 


385 


405 


520 


475 
800 


500 
830 


850 


335 


355 


430 


450 


310 


335 


355 


255 


275 


PART I- B — FRESH UNUSED INDUSTRIAL SCRAP 
1. Axles -- Straight - Defective or Rejected 

310 
2 . Bars and Rods — Mild Steel (Round and Squares 

below 3 " and Flats upto and including 5 " 
wide) — 
(1) Cuttings — 2 10 9 Barş and 2 to 8 Rods — 
Base . . . . . . . 

405 
(11) Cuttings — under 2 to l long , . . 
(iii) Cuttings — under I long . . 

230 
3. Bars - High Carbon, Octagonal - 

Defective or Rejected and Cuttings : 
(1) 2 long and above . . . . 
(11) Below 2 long 

335 
4. Bars - - Spring Steel : 
(1) Defective or Rejected over 9 in length 

460 
( 11) Defective or Rejected and Cuttings 2 

to g in length 
( 111) Cuttings I to under 2 in length . 
( iv ) Cuttinga under 1 long . . . 250 


460 


505 


485 
360 


380 


485 


505 


415 


• 370 

340 


395 
365 
275 


385 


295 


N .B . - Itemsmarked Base will carry only Sectional Extras as in Extras List at Appendix III for 

Pridie Quality Steel, 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


( PART II - SEC. 3 


4 


5 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


5. Hoops or Thin Flats - Defective or Rejected 

and Cuttings — 3 / 16 " to 1/ 16 " in thickness 
and all widths : 
(i) Over 10 long , 
( ii ) Between 2 to 1o long , 
( iii ) Below 2 long 


365 


320 
310 
190 


345 
335 
215 


235 


550 


575 


515 


540 


595 
560 
295 


250 


6 . Hoops Defective and Cuttings : 

(1) 3 /4 " * 19 / 20G over 1o in length 
(11 ) 3 / 4 " X 18 / 18G over 10 in length 

(iii) 3 / 4 " all gauges and below 10 in length 
7. Plates, Cuttings : 

(1) Ends and Strips, Straight sheared , below 

5 / 16 " thick and above 10 " wide - Base . 
( 11) Ends and Strips below 5/ 16 " and in 

widths upto 10" - Base . 


330 


375 


395 


325 


350 


370 


370 


8 . Plates Chequered below 5 / 16 -- Base 

(i) Shearing above 10 wide , , . 

(11) Shearings upto 10 " wide . . . 
9 . Plates, Black - Rejected - full size as rolled 

mixed guages . . . . . 


320 


395 
345 


415 
365 


450 


475 


495 


IO . Plates , Black - - Cuttings : 

(1) Thin Straight sheared mixed gauges 

20 / 34 , 4 " wide and over . 
( ii ) Thick hand -bundled mixed gauges 20 / 34 , 

7 " wide and over . . . . 


320 


365 


345 
245 


220 


265 


II. P . C .R . C . A , Wasters -mixed gauges full size 

( If these are sorted out by gauges , gauge 
extras as fixed for Tin Plate Co ., will 

apply ). . . . . . . 
12 . P .C .R . C. A . Strips-- Cuttings — mixed gauges 

(If these are sorted out by gauges, gauge 
extras as fixed for Tin Plate Co ., will 


425 


450 


470 


apply ). 


305 


350 


265 


330 
290 
240 


3що 


21 


2260 


270 
320 


295 
345 


315 
365 


320 


345 


365 


(1 ) Over 6 " wide . 
( ii ) 3 to 6 " wide , 

( iu ) Under 3" wide 
11 3 . Rails - - Steel - Cutting8 ; 

(1) Under 2 (Light or Heavy ) . . . 

( 11) 2 to 12 long. - Light . . . 
14 . Roll Spoils----below 3/4 " in thickness and all 

lengths 
IS. Sheets, Black -Cuttings, Fishtails and cleancut 

mixed 6 "/ 24" wide : 
(1) 13 / 18 gauge . 
( 11 ) 19 /22 gauge . 
(iii) 24 gauge 
(10 ) 26 gauge 
( 0 ) 28 gauge 

( vi) 30 gauge 
16 . Sheets - Black , Cuttings annealed cleancut 

picces 6 " to under 24 wide - mixed gauges . 


385 


360 
370 


400 


415 
445 


395 
425 
535 
445 
455 


410 
420 
430 


453 


465 


475 


335 


360 


380 


N . B . Itemsmarked Base will carry only Sectional Extras as in Extras list at Appendix III for 

Prime quality steel, 


PART II SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1966 


Rs. 


Rs . 


Rs. 


270 


295 


315 


210 


235 


255 


17 . Sheets - Black , Cuttings 6 " and up wide all 

Fishtails ro to 12 gauges ormixed gauges , 
18 . Sheets - Black , cuttings - 2 " to under 6 " wide 

Base 
19 . Sheets 

(a ) Galvanised Plain cuttings of any of 

mixed gauges 
(6 ) Galvanized Corrugated cuttings of any 

or mixed gauges 
20 . Structurals cuttings 2 / 9 long including those 

o bars (Rounds and squareg 3 " and above and 
Flats Above 5 " wide ) - Base. (Except Joists 
channels and angles 5 / 16 " thick and up ) , 


510 


555 


535 
485 


460 


505 


20. Struer Bereich 


350 


375 


395 


21. Structurals Cuttings under 2 long including 

cuttings or Bars , (Rounds and Squares 3 " 
and above and Flat above S "wide . 


250 


275 


295 


22 . Tinplate Strips — 28 gauge and thicker in lots : 

( If these are sorted out by gauges , gauge 
extra as fixed for Tin Plate Co ., will apply ) . 
Minimum Width Maximum Width 
(a ) over 6 " 
( b ) over 3 " 
( c) over 2 
( d ) over 1 " 
( e ) over 1 / 2 " 

over 1 / 2 " 


585 


560 
530 
500 
470 


555 


HNO 


605 
575 
545 


525 


515 


440 


465 


485 


410 


435 


455 


23. Tin Bars and Shçet Bars Crop -ends 2" to 6 " 


wide 


: 


300 


325 


345 


595 


625 


645 


800 


825 


24 . Wire, Defective and Short Lengths Specific 

gauges — 2 to 3 SWG (Gauge extras as 
hxed for M / S . Indian Steel and Wire 
Products Ltd . will apply ) . 
( a ) Hard Bright . . . 
(6 ) Annealed 
& Galvanised ( Including Telegraph) : 

( d ) Barbed 
25. Wire , Scrap and Cuttings in mixed unsorted 

gauges : 
(a ) Hard bright , . 
(6 ) Annealed 

( c ) Galvanised 
26 . Wire, - Twisted , Bent and rusty - mixed or 

unmixed gauges : 


soo 


525 


545 
595 


350 


375 


(a ) Unannealled 
(b ) Anncaled 
(c ) Galvanised 
( d ) Barbed 


360 


385 
465 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


. 


440 


395 
405 
485 
595 


550 


575 


27. Wirc Nails - -Defective , Rejected and /or Rusty 

of any gauge or size. 


600 


629 


645 


N . B .-- Itemsmarked Base will carry only Sectional Extras as in Extras List at Appendix ITI 

for Prime Quality Steel. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1988 


( PART II — Sec. 


Rs. 


PART 1-C - USADJINDUSTRIAL SCRAP 

Rs. 
I. Axles, Straight— (Railway) — not fit for rc 

240 


rolling ! 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


265 


285 


2 . Bars and Rods Mild Steel (Round and Squares 

below 3 " and Flats upto and including 5 " 
wide) : 

(1) z long and above Base . 
(ii ) Cuttings below 2 and upto 1 long . 
(iii) Cuttings under I long . . 


375 


330 
250 
170 


355 
275 
195 


295 
215 


3 . 


( a ) Bars — Spring Steel : 

(i) Over 9 in length . 
(ii) Cuttings 2 9 in length 
(iii) Cuttings I to under 2 

( iv ) Cuttings under I long 
(6 ) Crow Bars - Rejected 2 & over . 


310 


360 
285 
240 
190 
245 


385 
265 


215 


. 


270 


195 


220 


240 


235 
220 


260 
245 


280 
265 


4 . Dog Spikes . . . . . . 
5 . Draw Bars (Railway Engine and Carriage) 

with or without hooks : 
( a ) 6 and above in length 

(b ) Below 6 in length 
6 . (A ) Fencing Posts- Punched - complete or broken 

2 long and over . . . . . 
( B ) Files - Steel . 

( C ) Files - Broken but usable as files . . 
7. Fish Plates for Heavy or Light Rails -usable . 
8 . Hoops or thin Flats : 


245 


265 


220 
545 
345 


570 
370 


390 


JIS 


335 


225 


Z 50 


(1 ) io to 16 gauge over tolong 
(11) 3 /4 " X 20 gauge over 1c in length . 
(111 ) 3 / 4 " X 18/ 19 gauge over 10 in length 


415 
385 


440 


270 
460 
430 


410 


9 . Hoops or thin Flats 1 /8 " and thinner cuttings 

below 10 in length - all widths 


200 


225 


245 


10 . Plates Steel, with or without holes — all sizes 

below 5 / 16 " thick , 


240 


265 


285 


II. Plates - Boiler - Stcel, with or without holes 

below 5 / 16 " thickness - all lengths . . 


280 


305 


325 


360 


380 


240 


320 
300 
210 
275 


320 
230 


205 


12 . Rails : 

( a ) Above 27 long when sold as Trans 

mission Polc9 - selected . . . 
(6 ) Above 12 long - Light . . . 
(c ) Above 12 long - Heavy . 
( d ) All rails Light or Heavy I to 2 long . 

( 8 ) Light Rail Cutrings over 2 to 12 long. . 
13 . ( A ) Sheets - -Galvanised Corrugated or plain 

mixed or unmixed gauges : 
( a ) Used - but as good as new . . . 
(5 ) Used - demaged but utilisable . 

(© ) Used damaged and unutilisable . 
( B ) Sheets , Black - Plain or corrugated of 

Panel Shects mixed jr unmixed gauges 
fit for usc as slicet cuttings . . . 


455 
335 
215 


480 
360 


500 


240 


ZIO 


235 


255 


N . B . - Itemsmarked Base will carry only Sectional Extras as in Extras List at Appendix III 

for prime quality Steel, 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


685 


In 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


170 


195 


215 


360 


335 
235 


380 
280 


260 


14 . Şleepers , pressed - steel - cuttings or full 

Length not fit for re - rolling . , . 
15 . Spring , Steel — Laminated , Volute, Helical 

and Spiral : 
(1) Complete 

( ii ) Broken pieces . 
16 . Structurals cuttings above 9 long including 

those of Rounds and Squara 3 " and above 

thick and Flats above 5 " wide - Base 
17 . ( A ) Structurals cuttings under 2 long includ 

ing those of Rounds and Squares 3 " and 

above thick and Flat above 5 " wide , 
( B ) Tubes 

(1 ) Flue 8 and over 
( ii ) Boiler 8 and over , 
( iii) Element 8 and over . 


285 


310 


330 


220 


240 


295 


275 
275 


275 


275 


( C ) Vacuum Pipes 8 and over , 
18 . Wire - mixed of all sizes and gauges . 


, 


. 


300 


PART II- A - FRESH RE-ROLLABLE SCRAP 


Item 
No, 


Description or classification of materials 


Maximum 
basic prices 
per ton at 
Calcutta , 
Bombay , 
Madras, 
Tatanagar 

and 
Burnpur 


Rs . 


315 


12 long 


, 


. 


mm 


uu 


1. Plates , shearings (resulting from fabrication work or from Producers ) both 
Plain and Chequered of thickness 5 / 16 " and up , 

, 
2 . Ruils , Steel Heavy , cuttings z to 12 long . . . 
3 . Rolls - spoils 3 / 4 and thicker 
4 . Scrnis Defective Billets upto 4 " and Slabs upto 3 " Sheet Bars Tin Bars 

and Slccpers Bars and Flat Bars and also Shçet Bai and Tin Bar Crop 
1 Ends above 6 " wide and any other materials of thickness 5 / 16 " and 

t up . . 
5. Sleeper Bars Cutungs 2 to below o 
6 . Structural cuttings vie ., Joists , Channels and Angles 2 to g long and 5 / 16 " 

thick an dup , 
7. All other fresh materials considered hy Iron and Steel Controller as suitable 

or fit for Re- rolling 


325 
325 


325 


31 


(1 ) Items marked Base will carry sectional Extras as in Extras List at Appendix III for prime 

quality steel. 
( 2 ) In case the materials which have been classified under Part III item No . I are not broken 

and can be utilised as Industrial Scrap and are not covered by any item of Part 1 - C , these 
should be classified under Part I — C and charged at f.o .r . Port rates per ton as under : 

Col I Col. II Col. III 


Rs. 150 /- 


Rs. 175 /- 


Rs. 195 / 


686 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1958 


[PART II - SEC . 3 


Description or classification of materials 


Item 
No . 


Maximum 
basic prices 

per ton at 
Calcutta . 
Bombay , 
Madres, 
Tatanagar 

and 
Burnpur 


PART II - B _ USED RE- ROLLABL + SCRAP 


Rs. 


265 


295 
245 
255 


I. Axles and CrankAxles Straight Railway – Loco C & W fit for re - rolling 
2 . Draw Bars - - Steel (With or without Hook ) above 6 long 

. . 
3 . Fish plates for Heavy Rails , upserviccable 
4 . Plates Shipbuilding , Railways, etc . with or without holes 5/ 16 " and up thick 

Des , 
5. Rails - Steel Heavy 2 to 12 long ( including points and Crossings and un 

serviceable rails of all length . . . . . . . . 
6 . Sleepers , Steel- Full lengths 
7 . Structurals including Bars ( Rounds and Squares 3 and above, fluts above 

5 " wide) to long , 
8 . Tic Bars - Mild Steel punched 2 long and over 
9 . Tyres Scrap (with or without Studholes ) . 
10 . All other used matcrials from any source including such scrap recovered 

from old falrication (Heavy Structuralş and Bars over 5 / 16 " thickness 
inclusive ) suitable or fit for - rcrolling . . . . . . 


265 
255 


હૈજેતે 


265 


250 


N . B . If any material described under Part IIA and B above is allotted 10 a Controlled Scrar 

Merchant for resale, the chargeable rate of the stockist will be Rs. 25 /- per ton more than 
the rate Axed for the materials under this Part . 


N . B . The following Railway materials will be included in item No. 10 of Part IIB above ; 

( 1) Fabricated materials of Rounds, Squares and Flats with /without attachments . 
(2 ) Fire Prickers 1- 1/4 " Sq . and up . 
(3 ) Truss Bars 1- 1 /4 " Sq . and up . 
(4 ) Bcams, fabricated , without attachment. 
(5 ) Channels, fabricated comprising of bugie , under -frames and wagon under -frames . 
(6 ) Channels , fabricated , Engine and Tender Frunes . 


PART III- - MELTING SCRAP 


Item 
No . 


Description or Classification of materials 


Maximium 
basic prices 
per ton 
ex - site 


Rs. 


I. Mild Steel Commercial quality Melting Scrap (excluding Borings and Tuin 

ings and Special quality low Phosphorus Melting Scrap with Phosphorus 
content not exceeding : 05, per cent), Cast Steel Scrap and perforated 

Plates 1 /8 " ; etc . . . . . . 
2 . Fresh Boring alnd Turnings 
3 . Special quality low Phosphorus steel Melting Scrap 

(1) Phosphorus content not exceeding . 04 per cent. . . . 
(it) Phosphorus content above , . 047 per cent, but not exceeding - os 

per cent. 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1958 


687 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


Um 


4 . Cast Iron Melting Scrap Grade I . 

Grade II . . . . . 
5 . Loco Types and Wheels - broken . 
6. Spring Steel Melting Scrap (Including volute , Helical and spiral Spring 
under I long broken unusable files ) . . , 

Rate per ton /. 0. 7 . Port. 

Col. 1 Col, II 
7 . Ingot Moulds Scrap broken . . . 

RS. IIS - Rs. 130 / 

. . 
8 . Ingot Moulds Scrap unbroken . 

95 


110 /= 


Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


NotB. I. No Place Extra is chargeable for sale of Melting Scrap except Ingot Moulds Scrap Item 

No . 7 and 8 . 
2 . The following Railway Scrap materials will be included in item No. I of Part III abovo 
( I ) Axle Boxes C & W Cast Steel broken or un - reclaimable 
2 ) Axle Boxes (Loco ) 

Do. 
(3 ) Axle Guards 

Do. 
( 4 ) Buffer Casing 

Do. 
( 5 ) Bogie Pivots 
(6 ) Buckles 
(7 ) Brake Leyers 
( 8 ) Brake Shafts 

Do . 
(9 ) Brake Beams Flats 

Do, 
( 10 ) Bhawers 
( II) Beaters Scrap 

Do, 
( 12 ) Buffers Spindle and Bead8- c43t- steel and broken or ungerviceable or un - reclaimable . 
( 13 ) Boiler tubes 
( 14 ) Bolts and Nuts not re - usable and cut pieces thereof 
( 15 ) Coupling Screws , Broken or unserviceable , 
( 16 ) Coupler Components . 

Do. 
( 17 ) Drag Boxes 

Do . 
( 18 ) Doc Spikes 
( 19 ) Drag Castings 
( 20 ) Draw Bar Hooks 
(21) Duplicate Low and Carriage 

Do. 
( 22 ) Duplicate Scrap C & W . 

Do. 
( 23 ) Draw Bar Face Plates 

Do. 
( 24 ) Engine Frame Parts 
( 25 ) Enginc Pins, sorts and sizes 
( 26 ) Element Tubes 
(27 ) Forged Steel 
(28 ) Fencing Posts under 2 long 

Do. 
( 29 ) Fish Platcs broken pieces 

Do. 
( 30 ) Motion Girders 

Broken or unscrviceable . 
( 31) Flue Tubes and other sorts of vacuum pipes etc . 8 under 

ft , 
(32 ) Perforated Plates 1 /8 " and above 
(33 ) Plates M . S . Scrap fabricated 
(34 ) Rivety , Washers 
(35 ) Rubbing Blocks 
(36 ) Rods of C - II sorts ( connecting Rods Slide Rods & Piston Rods) 
(37 ) Sheets M . S . Mixed sizes fit or melting purposes only 
(38) Scrap Boiler Trussers 
(39) Scrap Smoke-Boxes 

Do 
(40 ) Stretcher Casting 

Do 
(41) Trussers M . Ş . 
(42 ) Wheel Centres — C . & W . or Loco 

Do . 
( 43 ) Wagon Doors Scrap 

Do. 
(44) Wrought Iron Rails 
(45) Wagon Pannels --mixed . 
(46 ) Wrought Iron Girders 

Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


688 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1958 


[ PART II — Sec. 3 


Do . 
Do. 


3. The following Railway Scrap materials will be included in item No. 3 of Part III above. 
( 1) Draw Bars , Railway Engine and Carriage Wagong 

Broken or un - rcclaim 
with or without hooks below 6 long , 

able . 
( 2) Cranks and Crank Ping 
(3) Chains of sizes 
(4) Cross- heads of types 

Do. 
(5) Tyres, Wheels and Axles - cut pieces (Loco and C & W .) 

Do . 
(6 ) Bering Plates Mild steel 

Do . 
4. The follwoing Railway Scrap materials will be included in Item No. 4 of Part III above : 

(1 ) Broken pieces of Piston and Piston Valve Rings . 
(2 ) Bull Rings. 
(3 ) Steam Chest Liners . 
(4 ) Slide Blocks. 
( 5) Pulleys. 
(6 ) Vacuum Chambers . 
( 7) C .I, Drums Defective 

Broken and un - reclaimablo 
( 8) Bearings Plates 5 /8 " and thinner (cast) 

Do. 
(9) Brake blocks 

( iron ) 
( 10 ) Pot Sleepers broken . 
(11) Heavy Cylinders 

Broken or unreclaimable 
( 12 ) Headers 
( 13) Drag Boxes. 

Do. 
( 14 ) Frames 

Do. 
( 15 ) Fire Bars burnt 

Do . 
( 16) Wheels Chilled 

Broken or un - reclaimable . 
(17) Heavy Cast Iron Scrap each weighing 4 cwr, or 5 mds, and over, e. g ., Burn Fire Bars 

and Chilled Wheels etc . (Gr. II) 


Do . 


( 18 ) Cast Iron Machinery parts — Clean and without attachments (Gr. I) 


N . B . If any materials described under Part III is allotted to a Controlled Scrap Merchant for 

resalc his chargeable rate will be Rs. 15 / - per ton more than the rate fixed for the material 
under this part except in the case of Borings and Turnings ( Item No. 2 ) for which hig 
chargeable rate will be Rs. 20 / - per ton including his remuneration , 


CONDITIONS FOR SALE 

I. GENERAL 
I, This Scrap Price Schedule has been divided into the following Parts ; vis : 
( 1) Part I- A . 

. . Fresh Defectives and Cuttings, 
(2 ) Part I- B . . 

. Fresh Industrial Scrap , 
(3 ) Part I - C . . 

. Used Industrial Scrap , 
(4 ) Part II - A . 

, Fresh Re- rollable Scrap , 
(5 ) Part II - B 

. , Used Re-rollable Scrap and 
( 6 ) Part III . 

. Melting Scrap , 


2 . In respect of all sales the prices and other provisions of this Schedule relevant thcreto 
shall come into force with offoot from the date on which they are published in the Gazette of 
India and notwithstanding the rates at which an order has been booked and /or materials paid for, 
shall apply to all deliveries cffected on or after that date. In cases where deliveries are effected 
by Rail , the date of Railway Receipt shall be deemed to be the date of delivery . 


II - 


-. 8 ] 


, 


GA 


. 


. . 


. . ., 1 


3 . Except in respect of Melting Scrap in Part III of this Schedule for which the rates have 
becn made applicable ex -site , the prices in this Schedule are on port basis. In respect of Defec 
tives and cuttings and Industrial and Ro- rollable Scrap , enunjerated in Parts IA , IB , IC , IIA and 
IIB of the Schedule the prices at places other than ports ( Vix , Calcutta , Bombay , Madras, Tata 
nagar and Burnpore ) will be determined by adding the place Extras given in Freight ( Place Ex 
tras) List ut Appendix I in the manner indicated in the Special Conditions given helow . For 
any rail-head place not included in the suid list, the place Extra will be determined with rcfer 
ence to the actual Railway Freight per ton at P . T . rate for prime quality steel despatched in full 
wagon load to such places from the ncarest of the above 5 Ports except that for places which are not 
within 250 miles of the Ports of Tatanagar or Burnpore the placc cxtras will be determined with 
reference to the three ports of Calcutta , Bombay and Madras. For sale of Melting Scrap , no 
Place Extra is chargcable. In the case of any dispute regarding the place extra , the decision of 
the Iron and Steel Controller shall be final, 


4 . ( a ) Extras for section , guuge or thickness or for quality as admissible from time to time 
for prime quality steel will apply to Defectives , Cuttings , Scrap etc . only to the extent indicated in 
the foot notes to the Scrap Price Schedulc . 


(b ) Where a lot consists of a mixture of different Sections, sizcs , thicknesses or gauges and & 
separate price for mixed lots has not been fixed , the price will be calculated on the lowest priced 
section , size, thickness or gauge. 


The question of Credit facilities is a matter for negotia 


s . These prices are for cash sales. 
tion between the buyer and the scller, 


6 . Octroi, Sales or other taxes incurred in the process of delivery from the seller to the buyer 
will be borne by the latter. 


7 . Where no appropriate price has been notified for any item of scrap , the Controller may 
classify such item or items and fix such price as he may consider appropriate . 


8 . The chargeable wcight in respect of all kinds of Defectives and Scrap shall be the actual 
scale weight. 


II - A . - Special Conditions for Sales by the Main Producers (Vix ., Messrs Tata Iron 

& Steel Co. Ltd ., Calcutta , Indian Iron & Steel Co. Ltd ., Calcutta and Mysore Iron 
& Steel Works, Bhadravati and by Secondary Registered Producers vis ., Indiar Steel 
& Wire Products Ltd ., Indranagar and Tinplute Co. of India Ltd ., Tatanagar). 


I . (a ) Sales and despatches in full wagon loads of Defectives , Scrap etc . other than Melting 
Scrap by the above Main and Secondary Registered Producers shall be made f.0 . 1. destination 
d.o ., the base prices shown in Col. I plus the appropriate Place Extra for the destination . 


(b ) Where wagons are not fully loaded the customer shall pay the f.o . r. destination rate 
plus the difference between the actual freight per ton and the amount of freight per ton which 
would have been incurred if the wagon had been fully loaded . 


( c ) If, where the above Main and Secondary Producers sell a lot f.o .r . destination and tho 
materials are sent at the customers request, by a route ormeans of transport, other than the cheap 
cbt, the extra cost shall be borne by the customer , 


( d ) For deliveries by Rail in smalls sales shalls be made for, despatching station and the 
base rates shall be adjusted by adding the Place Extra for the despatching station . In such cases 
the actual freight shall be borne by the buyer . 


II- B . — Special Conditions for Sales by Registered Producers (other than the Main Pro . 

ducers , Messrs Indian Steel & Wire Products Ltd . & Tinplate Co. of India Ltd . etc 
and Controlled sources ( other than controlled Scrap Merchants ). 


I . Sales and despatches by the Registered Producers (other than the Main Producers 
Messrs Indian Steel & Wire Products Ltd . and Tinplate Co . of India Ltd ., etc .) and Controlled 
sources (other than controlled Scrap Merchants ) shall be made f.o .r, Seller s siding or f.o .r . des 
patching station , as the case may be, at col. I price plus the place extra for the despatching station . 
Actual freight from the despatching station to the destination station shall also be borne by the 
consignee . 


IIC . Special Conditions for Sales by the Controlled Scrap Merchants 

I. The rates shown in Col. II above , apply to all sales by Controlled Scrap Merchants and 
are subject to Place Extras as per the Freight (place Extras ) List at APPENDIX I for the place 
where the stockyard of the Controlled Scrap Merchant is situated . 

2 . All sales by Controlled Scrap Merchants are ex . thelr yards or f .o . r. their siding. No 
extra charges are admissible when delivery is made ex - yard or f.0 . 1. their giding, or into work 
shops adjoining to the Controlled Scrap Merchants yard . For such sales , the charges incurred 
for leading defectives or scrap in the wagons or Lorries shall be borne by the Controlled Scrap 
Merchants. Where delivery is undertaken by the Controlled Scrap Merchants at the request of 
the buyer , the dellvery charges shall not , except by special arrangements between the Controlled 
Scrap Merchants and thc buyer , exceed the following rates per ton : 


Rs. As. Ps. 

Rs. An. Po . 
Calcutta . . . . . 10 OO Jullunder . . . . 4 00 
Bombay . . . . . 1000 Nagpur . . . . 500 
Madras . . . . . 6 80 Vizianagram . . . 300 
Delhi (old & new ) . . . $ 120 Cuttack . . . . 7 00 
Kanpur . . . . . 800 Ambala . . . . 500 
II- D . Special Conditions for Sales by all persons other than Main Producers, Registered Pro 

ducers , (other than Main Producers), Controlled Şources and Controlled Scrap Merch 

ants. 
I . The base rates given in Col. III above , apply ex - yard and are subject to Place Extra given 
in the Freight ( Plaçe Extras) List ar APPENDIX I for the place where the materials are lying . 


APPENDIX I 

FREIGHT (PLACE EXTRAS) 
Subject to the provisions of relevant CONDITIONS FOR SALE , the following 
Freight ( Place Extras) are to be added over the base prices in respect of the 
Items under Schedule II, Schedule IV and Schedule V ( except items 1 to 6 in 
Part III thereof) for the respective rail -head : 


Freight ( Place Extras) List No, 1 of 1956 


Destination 


Destination 


Place Ex 
tra per 
ton 


Place Ex 
tra per 

ton 


Rs. As. Ps . 


Rs. As. Ps. 


. 


. 


57 


0 


O 


O 


Abohar 
Abu Road 
Achnera Jn , . 
Adirampatnam 
Adoni - 
Adra 
Aduturai 
Agårpara 
Agas . 
Aghwanpщ . 
Agra 
Ahmednagar , 
Ahmadpur 
Ahmedabad Jn . 
Ahmadgarh 
Ahraura Road . 


60 00 Ajmer Jn . 
• 4I 12 O 

Ajodhya 
60 00 Akaltara 
25 00 Akbarpur 
31 12 0 

Akivedu . 
Akkhihabbalu 
Akkur 

Akola 
o Alambagh 

Aligarh 
o Alir 

Allahabad 
12 00 Alleppey O . A , 
. 32 00 Almora 0 . A . . 

60 00 Alnavar , , 
41 I20 Alwar . . 


0000000000000000 


· 132 
. 41 0 
. 60 00 


. 


. 


ou 


VI 


, 


GA 


INDIA , MAY 12 , 1968 


691 


Destination 


Destination 


Place 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Extra 
per ton 


A - contd . 
Alwar Tinungiri 
Alwaye ! . 
Amalner 
Amalgad . 
Ambala Cantt. & 
Ambarnath . 
Ambaturai . 
Ambika Kalng . 
Ambur . 
Ambasamudram 
Ambyapur 
Amila 
Amla 
Amlori Sarsar 
Amolwa 
Amraoti . 
Amreli 
Amritsar 
Amroha 
Anakappallc 
Anakhol , 
Anamalai Road 
Anand Jn . 
Anandnagar 
Anandpur Sahib 
Anantapur 
Anaparti . 
Anara 
Anas 
Andul 
Anjangaon 
Anjar . 
Anjhi 
Anklesvar Jo , , 
Annavaram 
Aonla . 
Arantangi 
Arasalu . 
Aravankadu 
Ariyalur . 
Arkonam 
Arnej . 
Arrah . . 
Arisikere 
Arumuganeri 
Asafpur . 
Asansol . 
Asarva Jn . 
Atari : 
Atcli 
Attili 
Attur , 
Aurangabad 
Avadi . 
Ayyalur . 
Ayyampet 
Azamgarh 
Azhikkal (Velapatnam ) 
Azimgani Jn , . 


Rs. As. Ps. 

Rs. As. Ps. 
o Bachrawn 

Baconganj (Kang 

Badagara 
15 8 0 Badausa , 

Badampahar 

Badkulla . 
28 8 0 Badnapur 

8 00 Badnera In , . 
12 12 0 Bagalkot 
41 4 0 

Baghauli . 

Baghpat Road . 
49 00 

Bagnan . 

Bagoola , 
4600 

Bagwall , 

BahadurganjGoods Shed . 
40 120 Bahadurgarh . 

Bahjoi . . 
60 00 

Bahraich 
60 00 

Baidyniathdham 
Bairagarh 
Bairagnia . 
Bajuva , 
Balagarh , 
Balaghat In , 
Balasore . 
Balharshah 

Ballla 
17 12 0 

Ballichuk . 
• 34 

Bally 
Balotra . 
Balrampur 

Balugan . 
60 00 

Balwa , 

Bamania . 
40 8 0 

Banhrauli 
60 00 

Bamra . 
28 8 0 

Basapura 
Banaras Cantt . 
Banda . 

Bandel In , 
36 12 0 

Bandikui Jn . . 
Bandra M . Yard 
Banga . . 
Bangarapet . 
Bangalore City 
Bangtod . 
Bankhedi . 
Bankura . 
Banner : 
Bansabati 

Bangi- Paharpur 
25 00 

Banswara 0 . A . 

Banta Raghunathgarh 
0 0 

Bavria Thikria 
22 12 0 

Bapatla . . . 
49 8 0 Barabani . . 

Barabanki 
15 40 

Barabil Siding Ex. of siding 

charge 
Baraduar 

Bara Jamda . 
, 42 0 0 

Barakar . 
. 56 8 0 Baramati 

. , 21 00 


OOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOAOCABODOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOA 

00000000000000000 00000000000000000AODOAOOOOOOOAI 


OOOOOOOOOOOOANSA+OAOOOOOOOOOOAASOOOSACOCOONOOOOOOOOOAAAAADOAO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


OOOOOOOOO 


45 0 


Babatpur 
Babhnan . 


: 
. 


692 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1958 


[ PART II — SEÇ. 3 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Rs As, Ps 


Rs As Pg 


B - contd . 


37 12 0 


28 12 


OOO 


27 4 0 
60 00 

O 

o 
19 12 0 
60 00 

0 
30 8 0 
49 12 0 


31 


Barang 
Barara 
Baraset 
Barauni Jn , 
Bardoli 
Bareilly 
Bare adi 
Barh . 
Barhaj Bazar 
Barharwa 
Baripada 
Barka Kana 
Barkhera 
Barkuhi 
Barmer 
Barnagar 
Barnala 
Barvda M Yard 
Barpeta 
Barrackpore . 
Barwadih 
Barwaha 
Bagai 
Bassein Road 
Basti 
Batula 
Batanagar Siding (Nangi) 
Bath naha 
Bauria 


OO000+0.0000ts00OTOOA 


OOOOOOOOO 000000 


23 00 
39 00 
60 00 


Bhairangarh 
Bhalaj 
Bhandara Road 
Bhandup 
Bhankheda 
Bharatgarh 
Bharatpur Jn . 
Bharoli 
Bharthna 
Bhawani Mandi 
Bharwari 
Bhutapara 
Bhatinda 
Bhigwan 
Bhilai 
Bhilupur 
Bhilwara 
Bhimadol 
Bhimavaram 
Bhind 
Bhiwani 
Bhojuidid 
Bhongir 
Bhopal 
Bhoyani 
Bhubaneswar 
Bhu ) 
Bhurkunda 
Bhusaval 
Bibinagar 
Bihar Sharif 
Bilta . 
Bijainagar 
Binor 
Bikaner 
Bılara 
Bilaspur 
Bilga 
Bilimora 
Bilochpura 
Bilpur 
Bilthara Road 
Bindhachal 
Bindkı Road 
Birlanagar 
Birmitrapur 
Birnagar 
Bitsinghpur 
Bista 
Blawan 
Bobbilt Jn . 
Boinchec 
Bolarum 
Bolpur 
Bombay 

Central 
Byculla 
Carnac Bunder 
Dadar 
Kurla . 
Mahalaxmi 
Mahim 
Matunga , 


OOCCOROADOAROOROOOOOOA00000OOOOOOO0+00000TOOCOOOOOO 2000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 


una 


37 4 


Beas 
Beawar 
Bechrajt 
Bedibander 
Begamabad 
Begusarai 
Bchea 
Belagula 
Belangan ) 
Belapur 
Belgaum 
Belghurriah 
Bellary 
Belpahar 
Berhampur Court 
Berhampur (Ganjam ) 
Bermo 
Bettiah 
Betul 
Bezwada ( Vijayawada ) 
Bhavnagar Docks . 
Bhavnagar Terminus 
Bhabua Road , . 
Bhadohi 
Bhadrachallam Road 
Bhadrak . 
Bhadravati 
Bhadreawar Ghat . 
Bhaga 
Bhagalpur . 
Bhagtanwala 


000OOOOOOOOOOO 


33 4 


• 
. 


7 
47 


46 8 0 
49 12 0 
27 12 0 
46 0 0 
45 12 0 
37 8 0 
43 8 0 
37 12 0 
1980 


• ITO 


NII . 


. 


. 


. 


37 12 


7 
20 


PART II - SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


693 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Rs. A . P 


R9. A . P . 


B . -- concld . 


OOOOO 


Bombay - concld . 
Parel . . . 
Sion : 
T . L . Manganese Depot . 
B . P . T . Rly . . 
Wadala 
Wadi Bunder 
Hommidi 
Bonakalu 
Bongaon . 
Borawar 
Bordutti Ghat . 
Borivli . 
Broach . 
Brojorajnagar . 
Budaun 
Budalur 
Budge Budge 
Budhleda 
Bukhtiarpur 
Bulandshahr 
Bulsar . 
Burdwan 
Burhar . 
Burhwal 
Burnporc 
Butari , 
Buxаг . 
Byadgi , 


........................ 


Ž 
: 
: 
: 
: 
COOO 
700OOOOO 
+ 
NSSO 


Oooo 


· 57 12 0 
. Nil 
, 60 00 

39 12 0 
44 40 


Cannanore 
Captainganj 
Castle Rock 
Chaibasa 
Chainpur 
Chakarpur 
Chakardharpore 
Chakdaha 
Chakeri , 
Chakia . 
Chakulia 
Chalakudi 
Chalisgaon 
Chamarajanagar 
Chamba 0 . A . . 
Champa , 
Champion 
Chanasma 
Chanda . 
Chanda Fort 
Chandausi 
Chandcrnagore , 
Chandia Road 
Chandigarh . 
Chandil . 
Chandni 
Chandpara 
Chandpur Siau 
Chandragiri 
Chandrakona Road 
Charbagh (Lucknow ) 
Charbala 
Chatra 
Chebrol . 
Chheharta 
Chheoki , 
Chhindwara 
Chhota Udaipur 
Chhuchhapura 
Chickmagalur O . A . 
Chidambaram 
Chikhli Road 
Chikodi Road , 
Chinch vad 
Chingighar Siding 
Chinglipet In . 
Chinna Salem 
Chiupai . 
Chintamani . 
Chipurupalle 
Chirala 
Chirawa . 
Chirmiri , 
Chiltaldroog 
Chitorgarh 
Chittaranjan 
Chittaranjan Workshop Siding 
Chittoor , 
Chemu Samod 
Choranda 
Chunar 
Chupra . . 
Churk . . 
Churu , 


OSOBADORDO2DAOOOOOOOAAHOOVADAAODOROOAALDOSOADORO OOOOHOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOODOARADA 


Calcutta - 


Armenian Ghat . 
Ballygunge 
Beliaghata . . 
Belur 
Charakdanga 
Chitpur 
Coss } pore , 
Dum Dum Cantt. 
Garden Reach 
Howrah 
Juggernath Ghet . 
K . P . Docks 
Kadamtala 
Kalighat 
Kulpighat (Sahib Bazar ) : 
Llllooah 
Meerbaharghat , 
Narkeldanga 
Neemtala Ghat 
Ramkristapore 
Ruthtola (Nundy Bari Ghat) ; 
Scaldah 
Shalimar 
Strand Ware House 
Sulkia . 
Ultadanga 
Calicut 
Cambay 


40 4 


31 4 


0 


694 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


( PART II SEC. 3 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs. A . P . 


C . - contd 


, 9600 


• 


31 12 


Closepet (Ramnagaram ) . 
Clutterbuckganj 
Cocanada (Port & Town ) , 
Cochin Harbour Terminus 
Cochin 0 . A . 
Coimbatore 
Coleroon 
Colgong . 
Conjeeveram , 
Contai Road 
Cooch Behar . 
Coondapur 
Coonoor . 
Cooperganj (Kanpur ) 
Coromandel , 
Cossimbazar 
Cuddalore In . 
Cuddalore New Town 
Cuddapah 
Cumbum 
Cuttack , 


: 


Delhi 

Delhi Kishangan ) 
26 8 0 Delhi Shahdara 

60 00 Delhi Safdarjung 
· 39 00 Dendulur : 
42 4 0 

Deoband 
57 8 0 

Deoria Sadar 
31 8 0 

Detroj 
17 4 0 Deusana 

Devakottai O . A . 
Devgad Baria . 
Deylali 

Dhampur 
60 00 Dhamtari 

Dhanbad 
57 4 0 Dhang . 

19 12 0 Dhanushkodi 
, 13 8 0 

Dharampur Punjab 
• 14 8 0 

Dharamsala Kotwali Bazar 
. 1414 4 0 

Dhariwal 
, 17 12 Dharmaj 
37 00 

Dharmayaram 
Dharwar 
Dhatrigram 
Dhilwan 
Dhico 
Dhoki . 

Dholka , 
60 00 

Dholpur . 
26 12 0 

Dhora . 
60 00 

Dhrangadra 
26 4 0 

Dhubri . 
10 12 0 

Dhubulia 
29 12 0 

Dhulla . 
Dhullan Ganges 

Dhulkot . 
34 

. 
4 0 

Dhuri , 
60 00 

Diamond Harbo 

Dibai 
24 12 0 

Dibrugarh 

Dibrugarh Ghat 
. II 

Didwana 
Digboi . 
Digha Ghat 
Dighwara 
Dildarnagar 
Dinapore 
Dindigal 
Dinnagar 
Dohad . 
Dubna , 
Dongargarh , 
Dondaiche 

Dorah . 
40 8 0 Dornakal 
60 00 

Dornachellam Jn . 
60 00 

Drug , 
, 37 

Dubrajpur 
22 IZ 

Duggirala 
. 12 00 

Dumraon 


Dabra . 
Dabhoi 
Dadri 
Dahej 

Danhát , 
Dakor 
Dalauda . 
Dalmia Dadri 
Dalmlanagar Siding . 
Dalmiapuram , 
Dalpatpur 
Dalsingh Sarai 
Daltonganj 
Damodar Jn . . 
Danca , 
Dankaur 
Dankuni . 
Darah 
Darbhanga 
Darjeeling 
Daryabad 
Daryapur Jn . 
Dasampatti 
Dasuya 
Datia 
Davangere ) 
Dawram Madhep 
Deesa . 
Degana 
Dehra Dun . 
Dchri City 2 . 
Dehri-on - Sone 
Debu Road 


r 


0 OROKORAOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOORAAAADOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO0000000000 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOONTOOOOOOOOOAOOOOAOROKORAORTAOTO 

00000000000000 


OOOO 


PART II— Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


695 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


per ton 


D - contd . 
Durgapur . . 
Dwarapudi : : 


Rs. A . P . 
. 6 8 0 
: 36 iz 


Rs. A . P. 

7 8 0 
9 12 0 


.: 


Ekdil 
Elemanur 
Ellore (Eluru ) . 
Erandol Road 
Erinpura Road 
Ernakulam Goods 
Erode . . 


. 
. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


60 00 

24 00 
: 31 40 
. 29 0 0 
. 45 

41 00 
25 80 


60 00 


Falna 
Faridabad 
Faridkot . 
Farukhabad , 

. 
Farukhnagar . 
Fatehgarh . 
Fatehpur 
Fazalganj Goods Depot (Ex. of 

Siding Charge) . 
Fazilka , 
Ferok , 
Ferozepur Cantt. and City . 
Firozabad 
Fort Gloster , . 
Fulla 
Fyzabad . . 


Gidni , i 
Giridih , 
Goalpaгa 
Gobardanga 
Gobindgarh 
Godhra . 
Goilkera 
Gokak Road 
Golagokaran Nath 
Golden Rock , 
Gomia , , 
Gomoh . . 
Gondal , 
Gondia , 
Gooty , 
Gorakhpur 
Goraya , . 
Goribidnur 
Gorumahisani . 
Goshainganj 
Govindnagar . 
Gubbi , 
Gudivada 
Gydiyattam 
Gudlavalleru . 
Gudur . 
Gulbarga 
Guledgud Road 
Guna . 
Guntakal 
Guntur . . 
Gunupur 
Gurdaspur 
Gurgaon 
Gurup . 
Guskara 
Gwalior , 


60 


000000og70go0000 


OOOO OOOOOOOOOO 


OOOOOOOOOOOHAOOOOOONOAOADOADODOOCOR 0000OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO00000000000 


5 12 


Gadag . . 
Gadwal , 
Gajroula Jn . 
Gandhidham . 
Gandhinagar . 
Ganeshgan ) . 
Gangapur City 
Ganjam . . 
Gannavaram 
Garbeta , 
Garh Dhenkanal 
Garmukhtcsar . 
Garhshankar 
Gashwa Road . 
Garividi . 
Gauhati . 
Gaya , 
Ghaggar . 
Ghanauli 
Ghataprabha 
Ghatkopar 
Ghatsila . 
Ghazlabad 
Ghazipur City 
Ghorpuri 
Gholeshapur . 


00000000000000000000000000 


Habra , 
Hagari , 
Hagaribommanahalli 
Haibargaon 
Hajipur . 
Haldibari 
Haldwani 
Halishahr 
Halol 
Hamira . 
Hamirpur Road 
Hansi , 
Hanumangarh 
Hapur . . 
Hardoi . . 
Hardua , 
Hargaon . . 
Harduaganj 
Hardwar 
Haridaspur 


000000000000OOOAA 00000000000000000000 


696 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


[PART II - SEC . 8 


Destination 


per 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Destination 


Destination 


Place 

Extra 
per ton 


Rs. 


H - contd . 


SI 


O 


Rs. A . P . 
42 00 
4900 
40 40 
60 0 
35 12 0 
49 00 
60 00 


· 


Tais 
Jalthari . 
Jaitu 
Jaitwara 
Jajpur Keonjhar Rd. 
Jakkalacheruvu 
Jakpur , 
Jalarpet . 
Jaleswar . 
Jalgaon . 
Jalna 
Jalor 
Jalpaiguri 
Jamalpur 


46 


omkhandi o . A . 


Harihar . 
Harinagar 
Harnhalli 
Harpalpur 
Hasan . . 
Hasimara 
Hathras Jn . 
Hathras Kilah . 
Hathua , 
- Hatkanangale 
Haur 
Haveri 
Hazarat Nizamuddin 
Hazaribagh Road . 
Hetampur 
Himgir , 
Himmatnagar . 
Hindaun City . 
Hindumalkot , 
Hindupur Jn . . 
Hingoli (Deccan ) 
Hirdagarh 
Hissar . 
Holalkere 
Hole Alur 
Hooghly 
Hoshangabad 
Hoshiarpur 
Hospeto 
Hotgi , 
Hubli . 
Humma . 
Hussainiwala . 
Hyderabad (Dcccan ) 


OOOOOOOOAOOCAC0OONOAOO? 

00000000CODAOA 

O OOOOOOOOO 


OOOOO 


OAOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOA00+ACORAROAAAAOSO? 


41 12 


Jamnagar 
20 00 

Jamooee . . 
Jamtara . . 
Jamuniatand . 
Jamuria . . 

Janghai Jn . 
40 8 0 Jangipur Road , 

Jaora 
60 0 Jepla 
. 38 8 0 

Jaraikela . 
Jargaon . 
Jaswantnagar 
Jaunpur Jn . 
Jawalamukhi Road 
Jawalapur 
Jayasingpur 
Jehanabad 
Jetpur 
Jeur 
Jhagadia . . . 
Jhajla 
Jhalana (Gandhinagar ) 
Jhalawar Road , 

Jhansi , 
• 32 12 0 Jhantipahari 

Jhargram . 
. 38 

jharia . 
Thurradih 

Jharsuguda 
o Jhinjhak . 

Thinkpani , 
42 8 0 Jhunjhunu 
17 12 0 

Jiaguni , 
30 00 

Jodhpur . 
O Jorhat Town 

O Şubbulpore 
, 44 

Juhi (Kanpur) 
12 0 Tukehi . 
Oo Jullundur , 

Jullundur Cantt . ) 
Junagadh 

Jutogh . . 
. 43 40 

K 
. 60 00 

Kacheguda 
oo Kadakavur 
, 60 o 0 Kadambur . 


BOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO000 


Ib 


38 


0 


Ichapur . 
Ichchapuram (Ganj 
Idar , 
Idgah (Agra ) . 
Iklehra , 
Imphal O . A , 
Indore 
Indrabil . 
Indupalle 
Ingur . 
Iqbalpur 
Itarsi 
Itwari (Nagpur ) 
Izatnagar 


0000000000 


OAOA 


Jadcharla 

. 
Jagadhri . 
Jagannadhapuram 
Jagrion - 
Jaipur S . & W . 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 


26 80 


, 46 I2 
. 46 12 
. 37 4 


, 


. 


. 


0 
0 


PART II SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


697 


Destination 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Rs, A . P . 


R6 . A. P . 


K - contd . 


· 


· 


· 


· 


........ 


· 


OOAADOOR 


· 


· 


· 


· 


· 


· 


....................... 


· 


· 


· 


· 


· 


· 


................ 


OOOO 


. 


. 


00000000 


OOOSAOOO007000€AOOAORTAOOTAOHODACOAOAOOOOOOOOOOOOOACOA 


1 


0 


0 


Kaday anallur . 
Kadiam , 
Kadiri 
Kadur 
Kaikalur 
Kaipadar Road 
Kaithal 
Kala Ak har 
Kalahasti 
Kalai Kundah 
Kalasapakka 
Kallkiri 
Kalipaharl , 
Kaliyaganj 
Kalka 
Kallayi 
Kallidaikurichi 
Kalol 
Kalyan . 
Kalyani , 
Kamaredi . 
Kamarhatty Siding 
Kampookothi 
Kamptce . . 
Kancharapara . 
Kandaghat 
Kandhla 
Kandivlce (same as Boriyli ) 
Kandla 
Kandla Bunder . 
Kandra 
Kanhan 
Kanhangad 
Kankaria 
Kankinara 
Kanpur Central (Goods Shed & 

Kanpur Juhi) 
Kantabanji 
Kanth 
Kapadvan } 
Kapasin , 
Kapren . 
Kapurthala 
Karad 
Karaikkal , 
Karaikkudi 
Karamsad 
Karari 
Karengi . 
Kariavalamandal 
Karkely . 
Karkond . 
Karkheit . 
Karmad . 
Karnal . 
Қагuг 
Kartarpur 
Karwandia 
Kasamgod , 
Kasbe Sukenc 
Kasganj city 
Kashi 


Kashipur , 

o Katahri 
36 80 Katakhal . 

Kateri Road 
Kathgodam 

Kathlal 
8 0 

Kathihar . . 

KatniMarwara . 
45 12 0 Katol 

Katosan Road 
9 8 0 

Katpadi 
14 8 0 Katrasgarh 

o Katwa 

Kauli 
Kavali 
Kazipet 
Kelod 

Keolarec . 
O Kesarpura . 

Keshod . 
Kesinga 
Khachraud 
Khaga 

Khagaria . 
0 Khairthal . 

Khalarih . 

Khamaria Sub Depot Disding Ex , 
60 00 of siding charge) . 

Khamgaon 

Khammameth 
54 12 0 Khana Jn . 

Khanapur . 
O Khandwa . 
O Khana 
o Khanyan . 

Khaperkheda 
Kharaghoda 

Khardaha . 
o Kharii 

Khargpur . 
Khariar Road , 

Kharida Siding . . 
o Khari Rohar Road 

Kharkhauda 
0 0 Kharsalia , 

Kharsia 
Khatema . 

Khedbrahma 
O Klierli 
O O Khirsadoh In . 
80 Khori 

Khurda Road : 
19 12 0 Khurdpur 
40 12 0 

Khurja City 

Khurja Jn . 
60 00 Kilakadaiyam . 
27 8 0 Kille 

Kiratpur Sahib 

Kirkee , 
Oo Kirloskarvadi . 

Kishanganj 

Kishangarh . 
12 0 Kistna Canal . 


0 


............... 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


0 


. 


DOAOOOOO0000OOROADOCODAADOOSOAONAOOOOOAADOAOOOOOOO 


. 


. 


... 


.. 


. 


. 


осоо 


. 


. 


. 


. 


........ 


. 


. 


. 


. 


........................ 


.. 


................... 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


........... 


O 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


698 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


[ PART II- Sec . 3 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton 


- - - 


- 


Rs. A . P . 


16 00 


46 OO 


AOOOOOAA 


Kolar 


00000000000000 


COORDOOR05OOOOOAAOOOOAO 


oo000000000000000000000 


00000000 


Machada , 


Rs. A . P . 
K - contd . 

Lalgola Ghat . . 

Lalitpur , 
Kiyalur 

22 4 0 Lallaguda Siding Ex. of Siding 
Kodalkanei Road : 

29 4 0 

Charges 
Koduru 

12 8 0 Lallgarh 
Kolaghat Goods Siding 

Lankalakoderu . 
20 8 0 

Lapanga , 
Kolhapur 

Lasalgaon 
Kollur Road 

Latehar 
Kondapuram . 

Latur , 
Konnagar 

Layabad , 
Kopargaon 

Limbodra 
Koraput Dist . O . A . 

Linch . . 
Koregaon . 

Lodhikhera 
Kosamba . 

Lodra , 
Kosi Kalan 

Lohardaga 
Kotah . 

Lonand . 
Kotdwara 

Londa Ja , 
Kothgangad 

Lower Halflong 
Kotma , 

Luckecscrai Jo . 
Kottarakara 

O Lucknow . 
Kottavalasa 

Ludhiana . 
Kottur 

Lumding . 
Kovilpatti 

Lunavada 
Kovvur . 
Krishnagar City 

м 
Krishnarajanagar 
krishnarajapuram 
Kuberpur , 

Macherla . 
Kuchman Road . 

Madanapalle Road 
Kudatini . 

Madanapalle Town 0 . 
Kudchi . 

o Madan Mahal . . 

8 0 Maddikera , 
Kuldiha . 

4 0 Madhavnagar 
Kulhuria , 

Madhi 
Kulti 

Madhubani 
Kumarbandh Halt Siding . 

Madhupur Jn , . 
Kumardhubi 

0 0 Madras : 
Kumbakonam 

Beach . 
Kumbla . 

Egmore . 
Kulltalai , 

Perambur 
Kunch 

Rayapuram , 
Kund 

Salt Cotaurg 
Kunwar , 

Madukarai 
Kuppam 

Madura . 
Kurduwadi 

Madurantakam 
Қurpool Towд . 

Magra Jn . 
Kurscong . 

o Mahadanapuram 
Kurukshetra . 

. 60 

Maharajganj , 
Kurumbur 

, 41 12 0 Mahbubnagar . 
Kusunda Jn . , 

8 8 0 Maharajpur . 
Kuttalam , 

. : 19 12 O Mahasamund 
Kymore Siding Ex. of Siding charge 59 4 0 Mahesh Khunt . 

Mahesh Munda 
Maholi . 
Mahudha . 
Mahuva : 
Maigalgan ) 

Maihar 
Lakheri , .. . . . 56 8 0 Mainpuri . 
Lagergawan . . . . 56 12 0 Maitha . 
Laheria Sarai . 

Makhakhad 
Lakhimpur Kheri 

• 6000 Makhu . 
Lakhtar 

Makkajipalli 
Lalganj , . 

O Maksi . 


OOOROOODOOZADOOOOOBACOAOOOOO-ORADAA 


Kudra 


......... 


00000000 


TOS 0000000000 
C 
A 
E 
. 
. 
. 
NOONOOMOONONOOO 
000 
000 
000 

0000000000000000000000 


. 


. 


Lagergawan 


O 


PART II Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1958 


699 


Destination 


Place extra 
per ton , 


Destination 


Place extra 
per ton . 


Rs. A . P . 


000OOOOOOO 


700 
000 


O 


Rs. A . P . 
M . -- contd . 

Mewa Nawada 
Mal Jn . . 

. 

50 12 0 Mhew . 
Malda Court . 

12 0 Midnapore 
Mallanwalakhas 

60 00 Minambakkam . 
Malsar 

27 0 0 Miraj , 
Malerkotla 

60 00 Mirzapalli 
Mallapur . 

oo Mirzapur 
Manamadura , 

Migamari . 
Manaparai 

Mithapur 
Manshcrial 

Miyagam 
Mandapam 

Mobha Road 
Mandavalli 

Modinagar 
Mandawar Mahuwa Rd . 

Moga Tahsil 
Mandi Dabwali 

Moghalsąrai 
Mandi Govindgarh . . 

Mohanlalganj . 
Mandla Fort 

Mokameh Ghat 
Mandsaur 

o Mokameh Jn . . 
Mandva , . 

O Mollagavalli , 
Mandya . . 

Molisar , 
Manendragarh 

Mollarpur 
Mangalore 

Mohammadabad Bidez 
Mangalgiri 

Mohol 
Mangalpadi 

Mohuda . 
Manganallur 

O Monghyr . 
Manaharpur 

O Moradabad 
Manipur Road . 

Morak , 
Mapiyachi . 

Morappur . 
Manjeshwar 

o Morar Road (Birlana 
Manmad . 

Morinda . . 
Mannargudi 

Morvi 
Manoharabad 

O Motibagh (Nagpur) 
Manga , 

Motihari , 
Mantapampalle . 

Motipur . 
Manwath Road 

o Mugma , 
Marikuppam . 

O Muhiuddinpur 
Mariyamannahalli 

4 O 

Mukerian . 
Markapur Road 

12 0 Mukhtiara Balwada 
Maroli , 

o Muktapur 
Marudur 

12 O Muktsar : 
Marwarpalli 

12 0 Muli Road 
Masaipet , 

48 12 O Mulmaroda 
Masulipatam . 

O Munirabad 
Mathura . . 

60 00 Muradnagar 
Matmari , 

34 00 Muri Jn . 
Maula Ali. 

Murukkampuzha 
Mau Ranipur . 

Mustabada 
Mavli . 

Muzaffarnagar 
Mayanoor 

Muzaffaгри , 
Mayavaram 

Mysore 
Mc Donalds Choultry 
Mc. Cluskieganj 
Meerut City . 
Meghnagar 

Nabadwipdham 
Mahidpur Road 

Nabha 
Mehsana Jn . 

Nadiad . . 
Mehsi 

Nagaur 
Meja Road 

Nagbhir Jn , 
Memari , 

8 0 0 Nagda 
Meramandeli 

Naging 
Merta City 

Nagpur ( Itward ) 
Merta Road 

Ngrakata 
Mettuguda Siding (Ex. of Siding 

Nagrota 
charge ) . 

Nahur Siding ( Ex.of Siding 
Mettupalalyam 

· 33 
Meturdam . 

, 24 8 0 Naibali Jo . 


OAO0000ORAOOOOOOOOBAOOADOOAONOOBAAAOOOATOOOOOA00000 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 


O 


SANOODOO 
TRONOSNOONO 
CODO++ 
NOSA00000000 

0000000000000 
000 


I 


N 


88 


ܤܘܠܐܘܘܘܘ88ܘ 


000000000000 


: 


59 


• 46 


OO 


Charges.) 


: 


um9 


: 


: 


Š 4 


ܘܛ 


700 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1958 


[PART II - SEC. 3 


Destination 


Destination 


Place extra 

per ton 


Place extra 
per ton 


Rs, A . P . 


Rs. A . P . 


N . - contd . 


• 


49 12 
59 12 


O 
0 


Obedullaganj : 
Oblapuram 
Okha 
Ollur 
Omalur . 
Ondagram 
Ondal , 
Ongole . 
Ottappalam 
Oyarla 


0000000000 


Pachora . 
Padugupadu 
Paharpur 
Pakala , 


. 


24 4 
12 12 
15 12 
13 12 


· 


Pakur 


.... 


18 0 
35 12 


. 


Naila 
Nalmishaгидуа 
Najni ( n . 
Nainital O ,A . 
Najibabad 
Nakodar Jn . 
Naksalbari 
Nalhati Jn . 
Nalpur 
Nalvar 
Namli 
Nancherla 
Nander . 
Nandol Dehgam 
Nandurbar 
Nandyal 
Nangal Dam . 
Nanjangud Town 
Nannilam 
Naraina 
Naranpura 
Narasaravupet 
Narayanpeth Road . 
Nardana . 

. 
Narnaul 
Narsapatnam Road , 
Narasapur 
Narsingpur 
Narwana . 
Nasik Road 
Nasirabad 
Nathnagar . 
Naupada . 
Nautanwa 
Navgadh . 
Navapur . 
Navlakhi 
Navsari 
Nawadah 
Nawai Banasthali 
Nawashahr -Doaba 
Neemuch . 
Nazira 
Negepatam 
Nekonda , 
Nellikuppam 
Nellimarla . 
Nellore , 
Neyveli , 
Nibkarori . 
Nidadavolu 
Nidubrolu . 
Nileshwar 
Nilokheri 
Nimdih 
Nophad . 
Nira 
Nizamabad 
Nuzvid . 


........... 


AROOOCOAOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO.OO000OA00000000R OOOOOOOOO 


Palakol 
Pulamcottah 
Palana 
Palanpur Jn . 
Palasa 
Palayangadi 
Palghar 
Palghat 
Palia 
Palitana , 
Palni . 
Palwal 
Panagar 
Panchkura 
Panchra . 
Pandavapura 
Pandaveswar 
Pandaul 
Pandharpur 
Pandooah 
Pandu . 
Panipat , 
Paaruti , 
Panyam . 
Papanassam 
Pappinisseri 
Parantij . 
Parbhani 
Pardi 
Pariawan 
Parlakaimedi 
Parli , 
Parvatipuram 
Pasumalai 
Pasur . 
Patalpani 
Pathankot 
Patharia 
Pathri . 
Patiala 
Patna City 
Patna Ghat 
Patna Jn . 
Patranga 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO0000000000000000000000 


o 


47 12 0 


34 12 0 


. 


18 


. 


. 


O 


PART 


- Stc. B ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


701 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs. A . P . 


P . - contd . 


36 


Quilon Jn . 


. 


O 


. 


. 


. 45 0 


0 


R . 


, 


45 


• 


52 


.•••••• 


CA 


Radhanagar . 
Radhanpur 
Raebareili Jn . 
Ratiganj 
Ragaul , . 
Rahuri . . 
Raibag , 
Raigarh , 
Raika Bag Palace 
Raipur Jn . . 
Rairangpur 
Rajahmundry 
Rajaka Sahanpur 
Rajapalaiyam 
Raj Athgarh 
Rajbandh 
Rajgan 
Rajgangpur 


46 


Rajgarh 


Pattambi 
Pattukkottai , 
Pavurchutram . 
Payagpur 
Payyanur 
Padapalli 
Peepardahce 
Pendutrti 
Pennadum 
Penukonda 
Peralam 
Peravurni 
Perundurai 
Perlad , 
Pettai . 
Phagwara 
Phaphamau 
Phaphund 
Phillaur . 
Phulera Jn , 
Phulpur 
Phulwari Sharif 
Phugro . 
Piardoba 
Pidugurala 
Pilamadu 
Pilibhit 
Pilkhuwa 
Pongora . 
Pipariya 
Piper Road 
Piplod . 
Pithapuram 
Plassey . 
Podanur Jn . 
Pokaram 
Pollachi . 
Polur . 
Pondicherry 
Ponneri . 
Poodoor , 
Poona . 
Porbundar 
Portonovo 
Pradhankhanta 
Pratapgarh Jn . 
Prayag , 
Puadukkottai 
Pugalur , 
Pulgaon 
Pulicherla 
Pullanbadi 
Punalur . 
Purbasthali 
Puri 
Purli Vaijnath 


+AOOONO 

00000 

00000000000000000OCAORTADOCOADODOCBNDAAROROOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOAORA 

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


ACAPODOBOOOOADOROAFARROOO 0000000000000000000OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO0000000000000000000000 


Rajghat Narora 
Rajkot Jn . 
Raj Nandgaon 
Rajpipla 
Rajpura 
Rakla Mincs 
Reman , 
Rumavarappadu 
Rambha 
RamganjMandi 
Ramgarh Town 
Ramgundum 
Ramnad , 
Ramnagar . 
Ramnagaram 
Rampur Haut 
Rampur 
Rampura Phul 
Ranaghat In . 
Ranchi , 
Ranchi Road 
Rani 
Ranibennur 
Raniganj 
Ranipet 
Rasulpur 
Ratangarh 
Ratlam , 
Ray 
Raya 
Rayadrug 
Rayaghada 
Rayalcheruvu 
Razampeta 
Rechní Road 
Reengus 
Reidganj 
Renewal 


600 
26 8 
IO 12 


II I2 
I2 I2 


o 


25 


Ow 


OOOOOO 


tooOOOOOTOOTORO 


coW 


Purna 


Purnea Jn . 
Purulia 

Puttur . 
Pu vanur 


8 


OOOOO 


. 


14 


702 


GA 


OF 


A , MA . 12 , 


[PART IISec. % 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Destination 


Place Extre 
per ton 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs. A . P . 


9 12 


. 38 


R - contd . 
Renigunta 
Repalle , 
Rewa 
Rewari Jn . 
Rishikesh 
Rishra . 
Robertsgunj 
Rohanakalan 
Rohtak . 
Roorkee 
Roga Jn . 
Rourkela 
Rukni . 
Rupar . 
Rupaund 
Rupnarainpur . 
Rupra Road 
Rura 
Ruseraghat 


0000000000000000000 


39 40 


$ . contd . 
Sangwad . . . . 
Şandila 
Sanganer Town 
Şangat . . 

Sangli 
5 4 0 Sangrana Sahib 
41 00 

Sangrur , 
60 00 

Sankaranyinar Kovil 
Sankaridrug 

Sankrail 
60 00 Sant Road 

Santaldih 
Santipur . 
Santragachi Jn . 
Saoner 

Sardarnagar 
58 12 0 Sardarshahr 
58 12 0 Sareri 

Sarmatand 
Şarna , 
Şarupathar 
Sagaram . 
Satara Road 
Satna 
Sattanapalle 
$ atur , 
Saugor , 
Savalyapuram 
Savan . 
Savarkundle , 
Sawai Madhopur 
Sayan . 
Scob Siding 
Secunderabad 
Secunderabad Mint Siding 

(Ex . of siding charge) 
Sehore . 
Sendurai 
Seohara , 
Sconi 
Serampore 

Sermadevi 
48 00 Seyalia , 

Shahabad 
Shahganj 
Shahgarh 
Shahjahanpur 

Shakarnagar 
22 

Shakurbasti 
23 12 0 Shamgarh 

Shamli . 
Shamnagar 
Shapur , 
Shedbal , 
Sheikhpura 
Shencottah 
Sheopurkalan 
Sheoraphuli . 
Shikara , . 

Shikohabad 
27 40 Shillong 0 . A . 

Shimoga Town 


Sabarmati Jn . . 
Şabour . 
Sadulpur 
Safdarganj 
Sagara 
Saharanpur Jn , 
Saharsa . 
Sahdol . 
Sahibgunge 
Sahjanwa 
Saidapet 
Sailakhurd 
Sainthia . 
Sakaldiha 
Sakhigopal 
Saikhoa Ghat 
Sakhoti Tanda 
Sakhun , . 
Şakri 
Sakrigalighat . 
Sakti 
Saktigarh 
Salboni , 
Salem Jn . 
Salem Market , 
Saliamangalam 
Salouna . . 
Samalkot 
Samayanallur 
Sambal Hatim Sarai 
Sambalpur 
Samastipur 
Sambhar Lake 
Şamalya . 
Şamnapur 
Sanahwal 
Sanapiſatti 
Sanatnagar . 


41 


OOONAOAOSAOOOOOCA00+0OASOOSAOORDACOAOOOOAOOOOOAOKOWOAOOOOAOA 000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 


SAOOOAVOORAAOROSOOOOOOOARCODOOADORA 

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 000000 


2 


ind 


0 


II 
22 


000000000 


60 


OL 


00 


. 


39 


. 


1 , MA . 12, 


703 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton . 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs. A . P . 


S . - - contd . 


24 


0 


Srivilliputtur . 
SubziMandi . 
Sukli 
Sultangunge 
Sultanpur 
Sulur 
Şunum , 
Supaul 
Surajpur 
Surat 
Surendranager 
Suri 


35 12 
60 0 
53 12 
190 
49 12 
300 


18 00 
56 40 
29 4 0 


0000000ooo 
oo 


o 


60 00 


0000000000000000 


18 12 0 
30 12 0 
35 12 0 
54 8 0 
17 12 0 
soo 


Shirud . 
Shiupur , 
Shivpuri . 
Shiyali 
Shohratgarh 
Sholapur 
Sholavandan 
Sholinghur 
Shoranur Ja . 
Shri Amirgadh 
Shujaulpur . 
Sibsagar Town 
Siju ! 
Sikkil 
Silaiman . . 
Silchar , 
Simbhaoli 
Siliguri . . 
Şimhachallam . 
Şimla . . 
Simri Bakhtyarpur 
Sindhkheda 
Sindri Assisted Siding 
Singanallur Goods 
Singareni Coluerles . 
Singapore Road 
Singarayakonda 
Sini Jn . 
Singur 
Sirathu , 
Sirhind . 
Sirohi Road 
Sirpur Kaghaznagar . 
Şirsimakhdumpur 
Sitamarhi 
Sitapur ( Thomsongan ) 
Sitarampur 
Sivaganga 
Sivakasi 
Sodepore . 
Soh 
Sohwal , 
Solan 
Somanur 
Sompeta , 
Songmukhi 
Sonarpur 
Sonder 
Soncgaon 
Sonepat 
Sonepore 
Sonnagar 
Sorath Vanthii 
Şoro . . 
Sri Ganganagar 
Srikakulam Road 
Sri Madhopur 
Srinivagapura 
Srirangam . 
SHvalkuntat . 


Sirsa 


000000000000000000000000OOOOOOOOOOOO 


Tadali 
Tadepalli 
Tadepallegudem 
Tadpatri 
Takia 
Talaiyiuthu 
Talbahat 
Talcher 
Talguppa 
Talod 
Talwandi 
Tanda Urmar 
Tandur 
Tanguturu 
Tanjore Jn . 
Tanuku . 
Tinur - 
Tapa , 
Tapri 
Tarakeswar 
Tarana Road 
Taraori . 
Tari Ghat 
Tarikere , 
Tarntaran 
Tatanagar 
Tatiailwal 
Teghra , 
Tekkali 
Telgi 
Telicherry 
Tenali Jo . 
Teni 
Tetulmar 
Tezpur Ghat 
Thana , 
Tharga , 
Thasca . 
Thawe , 
Tilda , 
Tildanga 


DOAOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOODOPO 


oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 


. 37 
- 500 

Nil 
, 25 12 0 
. 35 8 
. 42 
. 37 


. 


20 


1704 


THE GAZETTE OF 


A , MA . 12, , 


, 


. 


II — 


- 3 


Destination 


Place Extra 
per ton . 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs, A . P . 


Tilhar 


18 


. 


29 


0 


IS 
21 


wu 


4 


12 


T - contd . 
Timmanacherla 
Tinsukla 
Tinnevelly Jn . 
Tiptur , 
Tirora . 
Tirumangalam 
Tirumayam 
Tiruparankundram . 
Tirupati East 
Tirupattur 
Tiruppur 
Tirur 
Tiruturaipundi 
Tiruvadamarudur 
Tiruyalam 
Tiruvannamalat 
Tiruvarur 
Tiruvennainallur Road 
Tindivanam 
Titilagarh 
Tittaglur 
Tehana . 
Topsi . 
Tranquebar 
Trichinopoly Goods 
Trichur . 
Trikarpur 
Trivandrum Central 

vandrum Central , 
Trivellore 
Trembay (Kurla Trombay Block 

Station ) 
Tuggali . . 
Tumkur . . 
Tummalachcruvu 
Tumsar Road 
Tumsar Town 
" Tundla Jn . . 
Tungabhadra Dam 
Tuni 
Tuticorin . . . . 


HOOFOSAaOAOOOOOTORATADOOSOPFOROAOOOOO 


60 00 
13 12 0 


Vaithisyarankoil 
Vanjipalaiyam , 
Vanyambadi . 
Vapi 
Vasad Jn , 
Vayalpad 
Velapatnam 
Veldurti . 
Vellanur : 
Vellore Cantt , , 
Venkatagiri 
Veraval Docks 
Verka , 
Vetapalemu 
Vijapur · 
Vikhroli , 
Vikravandi 
Vikramgod Alot 
Villupuram Jn . 
Vinukonda 
Viramgam Jn , 
Vikarabad 
Virarakkiyam 
Viravannallur 
Viravagarana , 
Virkudi 
Virudhunagar , 
Vishnupur 
Vizagapatam Port 
Vizagapatam Town 
Vizianagram 
Vontimitta 
Vrinddachalam 
Vyara 


20 


OOOAAOOOOOAOA000 OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO00000000000000000GOOOOOOOOO 


44 


2 


00000000000000000000 


II 
32 


46 
48 


30 12 
28 4 


t 


. 


o 


. 


16 


0 


21 


“ U " 


OO0000 


Udaigarh 
Udaipur 
Udgir . 
Udipi 
Udumalpet 
Ujjain , 
Ukhra . . 
Uluberia 
Ulundurpet 
Umaria , 
Umbargoan Road 
Umrer . 
Umreth . 
Ungo 
Unchehra 
Undi 
Unjalur . 
Unjha . 
Utran , 
Uttukuli , 


...... 


15 00 


...... 


00000000000000000000 


IO 12 


Walajah Road . 
Waltair . 
Wanaparti Road 
Wangapali 
Wankner Jn . 
Wangjalla . 
Warangal 
Wara Sconi 
Wardha Jn . 
Warora . . 
Warsa 

. 
Warsaliaganj . 
Wellington 
West Hill 
White Field . 


56 


8 


OOODADOMA 
1000000000000000OOOOOO 


OOOOOOOO 


33 12 
27 8 


......... 


......... 


37 


. 


18 8 0 
27 12 0 


i 


22 


PART IL SEC. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


705 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Rs. A . P . 
Yeotmal 

44 4 0 
Y Yeraguntia 

20 40 
Rs. A . P . Yermaras 

36 12 0 
Yamuna Bridge (Agra ) 

6o o o YesVantpuΣ 
Yedapalle 

43 8 0 
Yadgiri , 

38 8 0 
Yedgi . 

, 30 12 0 
Yellamanchilli 

· 43 4 0 Zafarabad Jn . , . 44 OO 

APPENDIX II 
FREIGHT (PLACE EXTRAS ) (FOR PIG IRON ) 
The following Freight (Place Extras ) are to be added over the base prices in 
respect of items under Schedule III, subject to the provisions of "CONDITIONS 
FOR SALE relevant thereto , for the respective rail -head : 
FREIGHT (PLACE EXTRAS ) LIST NO . 1 OF 1956 

PIG IRON 


Destination 


Destination 


Place 
Extra per 

ton 


Place 
Extra per 

ton 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs. A . P . 


· 


, 


33 


18 


I7 


22 


I9 I 


Abohar 
Adra 
Agarpara . 
Agra City 
Ahmadgar 
Ahmedabad 
Ahmednagar 
Ajmer . 
Ajhai 
Akbarpur 
Akola 
Akkelu Balu 
Allahabad 
Alleppey . 
Aligarh 
Allur Road 
Alwar 
Alwaye . 
Ambarnath 
Amritsar 
Ambala Cantt. 
Ambala City 
Amargoli 
Amroha . 
Amausa . 
Amreli 
Anjhar 
Annupnagar 
Anand 
Andheri . 
Anakapelle 
Arbelia 
Arrah 
Arkoniam 
Arsikero . 
Asansol 
Asarva 
Aurangabad 
Azamgarh . 
Azamabad 


36 O O Badampahar 
4 0 0 Bagah , 
4 4 0 Benga 
29 4 0 Bahraich 

I20 Baheri , 

4 . Banda . 
13 Oo Bandel 
25 8 O Bangalorc City & Cantt. 
31 12 0 Bangrod 
22 4. O Barara . 

4 O Barmer , 
12 0 Barnagar , 

O Barnabamangaon 
29 12 0 Baroda 
30 4 

Barasct . 
o Barsi Town . 
oo 

Baghpat Road , 

Baramati , . 
o Barabani , 

Baregadi , 

Barliam Ghat . 
0 Bathnic 
8 o Barhaj Bazar . 

Barharwa 
o Bassi Pathanan . 

Baidyanathdham 
I2 o Bareilli 
oo Balawali , 

8 O Baraar 
OO 

Bajhot 
O O Banaras Cantt . 

Batanagar 
O Barnala . 
oo 

Batala 
8 o Banbasa . 
4 0 Bantia . 
4 O Barabanki 

12 o Baidyabati 
23 00 Badshanagar 
24 12 0 Barang . . 


ORADOACOBAADAORAAOSCOMAASOOOOOORORCOPO? 


0000000000000000000000000000000000000000 


24 


A 


20 


. 


23 


UR 


74 
13 12 


NO00 


. 


15 


706 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


(PART-II — Sec. 3 


Destination 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Place 

Extra 
per ton 


Rs. A , P 


21 


Rs. A. P . 
20 8 0 
30 


, 


>OOO 


......... 


24 4 


OOOOOOOOO 


70 


Bairagnia 
Basti 
Barwadi . 
Babram 
Barauni 
Batialpur 
Baraduar . 
Barajamda 
Bankura . 
Вамга 
Banjari 
Bally 
Barakar 
Barwadi 
Barkukana 
Beawar 
Bedi Bunder 
Bellary . 
Bc1Haghata . 


6 12 
23 4 
20 12 
Nil 


o 


................... 


Nil 
Nil 


O 


Nil 


0 0 Bilaspur . 
8 0 Biljohpura 

Birmitrapur 
Biswan 

Birsinghpur 
23 00 Bisra 

OO Bobbili 
8 o Bolpur 

Bodhan 

O Bombay . 
21 12 0 Central 
4 4 0 Byculla 

Cranac Bunder , Dadar, Mahin , 
12 12 0 Matunga , Parel, Sion , Wadala 
op oo Wadi Bunder . 
80 

8 0 Bongaon 
17. 4 O Bowringpet 
( Siding Brindaban 

charge to Brojorajnagar 
be collect- Broach 
ed locally ) Budge Budge 

Budaun , 
21 4 0 Bulland Shar 
29 8 0 Bulsar 
12 12 0 Burdw 

Burdwan , 

Burhwal 
O Burapur . 

O Butari 
18 I 

Buxar 
21 12 

Burhanpur 


. 


. 


Bellampalli 
Belanganij ( Agra ) 
Belapur . 
Belgaun , 
Beldanga . 
Belghuriah 
Berhampur (Ganjam ) 


............. 


OOOOOABOA 


00000000000000 


, 
. 


T 


, 37 8 0 
, 2000 
• 170 


Bettiah 


0000000000000000 


NII. 


21 


Bezwada 
Berham pur Court 
Begamabad (Munit ) 
Begusarai . 
Bhadrachclum 
Bhadravati 
Bhaga . 
Bhavnagar ( Terinus & I 
Bharatpur 
Bhind - 
Bhiwani 
Bhopla 
Bhupal Sagar . 
Bhusaval (CR ) 
Bhaktinagar 
Bhadreswar Ghat 
Bhatni 
Bhatinda , 
Bhagalpur 
Bhapitahi 
Bhojudih 
Bhimayaram 
Bhurkunda 
Bhuktiarpur 
Bidhgaon 
Bijainagar 
Blinos 
Bihta 
Bikaner . 
Bikramganj 


Calcutta : 

Belieghata , Cherakdanga , 
II 12 

Chitpur, Cossipore, Howrah , 
21 12 

Jaggarnath Ghat, K . P . Docke, 
28 12 

Kadamtolla , Kalighat, Kulpi 
ghet, Lillooah , Meerbahar ? 
ghat, Narkeldanga, Nimtolla | 
Ghat, Ramkrishtopur, Sealdah 

Shalimar, Strend Ware House , 
IS 12 0 Salkia , Últadanga. 

Calicut . 
• 4 50 Cambey 
22 4 0 Campierganj 

Canning . 
II I2 Captaingunj 
2 . O Chandausi 

Chakulia , 
Chakia , 
Chipгa . 
Chaibasa . 
Chalisgaon 

Champion 
4 0 Chandigarh 
4 0 Chanpatja 
4 0 Chakradharpur , 

o o Chandli , 
37 00 Chhcharta 


34 


O 


Y 


o 


T7 


8 


.............. 


Sto 
Too 
O 
NO 
0000 
+ 


00000000000000000 


5 


WN CON 


OAA 


OOO 


29 


Bilega 


PART II Sec ."S ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1958 


707 


Destination 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Place 
Extra 
pcr ton 


C .- contd . 


Rs. A , P . 


Rs, A . P . 


21 00 


0 


O 


COO006006COAO 

OOOOOOOOOADOA 


Dhulkot . . 
Dhuri 
Dhraugardra 
Diamond Harbour 
Dibai 
Diksal 
Dildarnagar 
Dighaghat 
Dinapur . 
Dohad , 
Doiwala , 
Doraha 
Dubrajpur 
Durgapur . 
Dwarka , 


Chicacole Road 
Chihçru , 
Chingigarh . 
Chhitqini . 
Chitoor . 
Chittaranjan 
Chittaranjan Siding 
Clatterbukgan ) . 
Coconada Port 
Cochin , 
Coimbatore 
Colgong . 
Contai Road 
Cuddalore Jn . 
Cuttack 
Calicut 
Canhancorc 
Chakdaha . 
Chinchwad 
Chikmagalur 0 . A . 
Chamrajarnagar , 
Chitaldrug 
Chandanagore . 
Chintamoni 
Chindwasa 
Chandisar ( W . R .) 
Chinchvad 


+90TONOSCOOP 


000000000000000 


O 


O 


OAAOOO 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


Ellichpur . . 
Elin - Bridge 
Ellore 
Ernakulam 
Erode . 
Ettawa , 


...... 


• 
· 


16 
20 
14 
27 


OOO OOOOOO 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 25 00 
, 19 12 0 

7 8 0 


Faridkote 


. 


: 35 8 


28 0 - 0 


Dabra 
Dakhineswar Rall head Miil Sic 

No. 2 . 


. 


. 


Dalmla Dadri . 


8 0 
oo 
1940 


Fatehpur 
Fazalganj Goods shed 
Fazalganj Goods siding 
Ferozabad 
Ferozepur 
Forbesganj 
Fort Gloster , 
Fuleswar 
Furukhabad 
Futwa , 
Fyzabad 


++0OTROOT OOOOOOOOOOOO 


Dalmianagar 
Dalmiapuram 
Dalsinggerai 
Daltongunj 
Dankaur 
Danea 
Darbhanga 
Daurala . 
Davangere 
Deoband , 
Dhanbad 
Dehradun 
Dehri - on - Sone . 
Dehusu Road 
Dehu Road 
Delhi (old & new ) 
Delhi Shahdara 
Delhi Kishenganj 
Deoria Seder . 
Desure 
Dhampur . 
Dhanuskodi 
Dharampur 
Dharewal 
Dhola 
Dholpur (State ) 
Dhond . . 


Gadag . 
Galsi 
Gangadevi 
Ganj Basoda , 
Ganj Dundwara 
Garden Reach . 
Garwa Road . 
Gauribazar 
Gaya . 
Ghat Kopar 
Ghat Sila 
Ghaziabad 
Ghoreasahan 

Ghughli 
23 oo Golden Rock 

Gobindgarh 
8 o Goilkera . . 


OOPAOOOOOORDAOOAAOONCOAAAOlo 

0000000000 


000OOOOOOOO 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


O 


10 


, 


6 


708 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


(PART II — SEC. 3 


Destination 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Place 

Extra 
per ton 


G .-- contd . 


Rs, A . P . 


Rs. A. P . 


Gola Gokarannath 
Gidoi 
Giridih 
Gomoh 
Gondal , 
Gorakhpur 
Goribidnur 
Gorumahisani 
Goraya 
Goroth 
Goyagate 
Gubbi 
Gulbarga 
Guntur 
Gurgaon . 
Gurudaspur 
Gwalior , 


................ 


AOOOOOOOOOOAAA? 


OOOO 


• 


• 


28 


AOCOOO 

BOOTACORORODASAPARACOAOBROADOORDA 


0000000000000000000000000000000000000 


. 


4 0 
6 4 0 Jadabpur , 
6 0 0 Jagadhri 
24 12 0 

Jagraon . 
8 0 Jahanabad 
8 0 Jalpur , 
12 o Jaitu . 

Jajou 

Jalesar Road 
16 00 Jalgaon , 

Jalna . 
18 00 Jamalpur 
4 0 

Jamiatand 
12 o Jamnagar 
36 12 0 Jamatra , 
I2 O Jamuria , 

Jaora 
Japla 
Jaraikela 

Jarwai Road 
4 4 0 Jaunpur 
30 12 O Jeonathpur (ER ) 

4 8 0 jhajha 
37 4 0 Jhansi 

Jhargram 

Jharradih 
27 8 0 Jharsuguda 
22 8 0 Thinkpani 

Jodhpur . 
22 00 Jogbant . 

Jointepura 
Joravarnagar 
Jubbulpore 
Juhi 

Jukehi 

o Jullundur 
6 8 0 Jumna Bridge 
II 8 0 Junagadh 
19 12 0 

Nil 
24 0 0 
32 40 Kacheguda 
1940 Kadi 

Kadur , 
4 8 0 Kaithal 

Kallipahari 

Kalka 
25 8 0 Kalol 

8 0 Kalyan , 
36 40 Kampookothi 
21 8 0 Kamptec , 

Kanchrapara 
Kanhan . 
Kanhegaon 

Kaiganj , 
17 4 Kankaria , 
22 0 0 Kankinara 

Kanpur : 
14 00 Kapurthala 
22 4 0 Karamsad , 

12 0 Kuraikudi 


...:::::.. 


Habra 
Haldwani 
Halisahar 
Hamira . 
Hapur 
Hardoi 
Hargaon . 
Harinagar 
Harihar 
Harkhna . 
Harpalpur 
Hasanpur Road . 
Hassan 
Hathna . 
Hathras Killa & City 
Hatkanangale . 
Hazaribagh Road 
Himgir 
Hingoli 
Hirapur Kulti , 
Hindagarh 
Hisaar 
Holalkere 
Holenarsipur 
Hoogli 
Hoshiarpur 
Hospet 
Howbagh (Jabalpur ) 
Hubli 


0000000000 


: 


OOOO 


. 


. 


Hussainiwala 


. 


. 


AAACOOCA0DOAAORDO 


Hyderabad (Deccan ) 


. 


0000000000000000000 


Ib 


. 
, 


0 


. 
, 


. 
, 


, 
, 


4 


Indore 
Ishapur 
Itola 


, 
, 


4 


0 


...... 


· 
. 
· 


4 4 
25 8 
37 4 
15 12 
IS 4 


Itwari 


. 


Izatnagar , 


. 


, 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


709 


PART II — Sec . 3 ] 
= = = = 

Destination 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Rs. A . P . 


RS. A P . 


Kymore Siding (Jukehi) 


. 


26 


8 


0 


16 12 


. 


14 00 
24 8 0 
II 12 0 
33 8 0 
37 0 0 
20 4 0 


33 


000000 


Laheriasarai 
Lakhimpur Kheri 
Lakhori , 
Lakshmigan ) 
Lalgolaghat 
Lalkua 
Latehar . 
Lharksar , 
Limbdi , 
Lohat Siding 
Luckesarai 
Ludhiana . 
Lucknow . . 


ܕ 
ܬ 
ܟܗ 
ܟܘ 
ܣܣ 
ܛ 
8 
ܘ 
ܤ 


0000000000000 


0 


. 28 

36 


25 


TO 


. 


OO0000OOCADAOCEANOAAJAJAAAAORAOODOCAOOOOOO 

OOOOOOOOOOO 


. 
. 


10 120 
28 12 0 
15 8 0 
15 12 0 
20 4 0 

Nil. 


. 


18 


. 


13 


% 


· 


Nil. 


Karad 
Karera , 
Karkenda , 
Karnal , 
Kartarpur 
Kashi 
Kashipur - ( ORR ) 
Kashimbazar 
Katihar . 
Kathunanagal . 
Kathgodam . . . 
Kathkuyiyan 
Katni 
Katrasagarh 
Kesinga . 
Khada 
Khagaria . 
Khagraghat Road 
Khalari . 
Khalaria , 
Khamameth 
Khana Jn . 
Khandwa . 
Khanna , 
Khanoodi , 
Khargodha 
Kharsia . 
Khatauli . 
Kharagpur 
Khardia siding , 
Khckra 
Khirsadoh 
Khodiar . 
Khopoli . 
Khudaganj 
Khurda Road 
Khurja 
Kiccha 
Kurkce , 
Kirloskarvadi 
Kishangarh 
Kishanganj 
Kistna Canal 
Koilpatưi . 
Kolar 
Kolhapur 
Konnagar . 
Kopergaon 
Kosi Kalan 
Kotkapura 
Krishangar City 
Krishanarajanagar 
Kuldiha 
Kulti 
Kumardhubi 
Kumbakonam 
Kundara , 
Kurduwadi 
Kurla . 
Kurukhetra 
Kuyunda . . 


13 


, 


000000000000000000000 


17 00 
18 4 0 
32 8 0 
27 12 0 


27 


Madanapalle 
Madan Mahal 

Maddur . 
4 o 

Madhavanagar , 

Madhubani 
35 

Madhupur 
Madras 

Beach , 
Egmore . 
Perambur 
Royapuram 

Salt Cotaur 
Madukarai 
Madura , 

Mahiuddinpur 
6 0 0 Maholi 
33 00 

Mahuya , 
16 0 0 Mainpuri , 

Mairwa 
30 00 Majhowlia 

8 00 Malerkotla 
15 00 Mandapam 
25 

Mandya 

Mangalore 
15 4 0 Manharpur 
20 00 Mankapur Ghat 

II 12 0 Manmad , 
· 17 4 0 Manpur Nagaria 
- 4 4 O Mansurpur 

Margheraita 
29 12 , 0 Marhowrah 
35 8 0 Marikuppam 

6 0 0 Marmagaoa l arbour 
17 8 0 Marwar Palai 

Masodha 
Nil . McCluskieganj . 
• 4 4 0 Mehsana 
, 14 40 Meerut City 
, 20 12 Mesulipatam . . 
. 13 12 0 Metuguda Siding 
. 3 12 0 

33 12 0 
. II 0 0 


a 


21 
20 


ANTON+to+00C++++0000000+ 


0000000000000000000000000000 


12 


24 00 


23 


18 


32 8 0 
17 8 0 
21 8 0 
(excluding 

siding 
charge) 


. 


710 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1966 


( PART II. Sec. 3 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Rs. A . P . 
ΙΙ ο Ο 
21 12 0 


Rs. A , P . 

8 O Nallikuppam 
8 0 Nellimarla 
4 0 Nellore 
4 O Nidadayolu 

4 0 Nilokheri . 
21 0 0 Nimdhi 

o Nirmali 
O Nizamabad 
o Nowrozabad 


16 


OTO0OOOOOO 


• 


22 00 
21 o Okha 

Olavakkot Jo . (Ollur) 

Ondal 
OOorgalm . 

o Orai (C . R .) , 
28 12 0 
30 4 

oo Pachora , 


31 12 
17 8 

4 8 
12 


- 
, 
. 


Meturdam 
Mettupalaiyam , 
Midnapur . 
Miraj 
Miranpur Katra 
Mirsapore . 
Mithapur . 
Modinagar . 
Moga Tahsil 
Moghal Sarai 
Mohamadabad 
Moharajganj 
Mohuda 
Mokameh Ghat 
Monghyr 
Morana . 
Morar Road 
Moradbad 
Morinda , 
Mortakka , 
Morvi . 
Motihari 
Motipur . 
Mugina 
Muktapur . 
Muland , 
Mundarwa . 
Muradnagar 
Muri 
Murshidabad . 
Muttra . 
Muzatfarnagar , 
Muzaffarpur 
Mysore . 


DO0000 00000 


.................................. 


Paharpur • 


23 


+0+ 00000000 

0+0 


II 
21 


20 


16 


+0 


4 

Pakur . 

Pachrukhi . 
O Padrauna . 

Padugupadu 
0 O Palasscy 

Palwal 
O Panagarh , 
O Pandu via A . J. R . R . 
o Panipat . 
O Parbhani , 

o Parli . 
8 0 Partabgar . 

Pathardịh . 
4 O Patiala , 

Patna City 
Patna Jn . . 
Periyanaickenpalayam , 

Phagwara 
4 O Pharcnda . 

Phillaur 


COPADOASODARVOOADOAJAROAC 


N 


17 
22 
II 


OOO 


** 


35 


00000000000000000000000000000000000 


N 


Nabadwipdham . 
N2018d 
Nadiad 
Nagpur 
Naihati . . 
Naini 


Phusre 


Oooo 


2000 


8 o Pilamedu 
4 0 Pilibhit 

Pilitana 
Pipli 

Pipraich 
oo Podanuri 

4 o Pondichherry . 
37 0 0 Poona 

O Porbandur 
O Protapnagar 

O Purulia , 
40 Puttur 


001ORA 


Nalhati 
Nalpur 
Nander 
Nangaldem 
Nangi 
Nanjangud T . 
Narela 
Narkatjaganj 
Narnauli 
Narsapatnam 
Nasik Road 
Nasirabad . 
Nangachia 
Navasari . 
Nawabganj (Gonda ) 
Nawashahr Doaba 
Nazarbagh 
Negapatam , 


000000 


22 


8 


Quadian Muglan 

o Quilon . . 
9 12 0 

12 0 
37 00 Radhanagar 

23 4 0 Rai Barcily 
. 15 4 0 Raigharh . 


, 104 0 
. 24 0 0 
, 12 8 0 


PART II SEC. 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


711 


- 


Destination 


Place 

Extra 
pçi ton 


Destination 


Placc 
Extra 
per ton 


R9. A. P . 


t 


V 


At 


+H 


I 


BTT 


TNH 


NNNN wwuawA 


10 


27 


Rai -ka - Bag Palace 
Raipur 
Rairangpur 
Raja -ka - Shahappur 
Rajamundry 
Rajbandh . 
Rajgangpur 
Rajkot Town 
Rajkot In , 
Rajnandgaon 
Rajola Jn . 
Rajpura . 
Rajula City 
Rakha Mines 
Ramkola . 
Ramanagaram 
Rampur , 
Rampurhat 
Ranaghat , 
Ranchi , 
Ranchi Road 
Raniganj . 
Ratlam . 
Rayaghada 
Raxaul 
Rewari 
Rohtak 
Riga 
Rishra 
Robertsganj 
Rohanakalan 
Roorkee . . 
Rourkela . 
Rupnarainpur . 


Rs. A P . 

O Satara Road , 
O Saugor . , 
o Satna . . 
o Sechara , 

o Secunderabad (Dn .) 
5 00 Seethanagaram . 

4 O Sehore Cant . 
23 12 0 Serampure . 
24 12 0 Sevalia ( Ba lasino ) 

Sevan 
26 8 0 Shahbad , . 

OO Shahgunj . . 

4 0 Shahpur Patori , 
12 0 Shahjahanpur 

4 0 Shakurbastı 

12 0 Shemli 
29 I12 0 Shamnagar 

o Shedbal 
8 0 Shcoraphuli 
4 O 

Shendurni 
oo Shikohabad 

4 O Shimoga Town . 
00 Shewea -budih . 

oo Shiyali . 
21 O Sholapur . 

Shoramur . 

Sidhpur , 
o Sidhwalia , 

Sikar 
o Siliguri . 
O Simbhouli 

Simla Hills 

Sindri Asstd . Şiding . 
O Singanallur 

Şirhind , . 


T4 


IZ 


то 


3 


OCOACOROASAAAOAOCAS #OOOAOOOOOOOAAAOONOAAROAOSO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


28 


ASOODOA00000 


NMHR 


Sini 


3 


Sirpur-kaghaznagar , 
32 I Sisva Bazar 
21 

Sitalpur . . 
20 

Sitamarhi 
33 40 Sicapur City & Sitapur Thomson 

ganj Siding 
o Sitarampur 
o Sivakasi 
o Siwani 

Sodepur 
o Solon , 
12 0 Sone East Bank 

Sonepat . 
ΙΙ 1 : 

Shri Ganganagar 
o Sultanganj 
4 0 Sultanpur Lodi , 
I20 Sunam 
8 0 Surajpur : 
8 O Şuia Nussi 

Surat 
4 o Shịupur . 


Na 


Sabar Mmati 
Sabzimandi 
Sageuli 
Sagara . 
Saharanpur 
Sahjanwa . 
Saila Khurd 
Sainthia . . 
Sakhoti Tanda 
Şakrigalighat 
Salem . 
Sakti 
Samastipur 
Sambalpur 
Sambhar Lake 
Sampla 
Sanahwal , 
Saglı . 
Sangrur 
Santipur . 
Santoshpur 
Santragachi 
Sardarnagar 
Sardargahar 
Şaşamuså . 
Sasuram , 
Sasni . 


16 


ооооAAAOAOCORAOGORAAOAONAQOASA 


Am 


4 0 
32 4 0 
22 4 0 
13 4 0 
30 4 0 


OOOOO 


, 


, 


Tahsil Dcoria 
Talaiyuthu 
Talamandi 


, 22 I2 O 
. 1940 
. 8 0 0 


. 


. 


. 


712 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


[PART JI - SEC . 3 


= 


Destination 


Place extra 

per ton 


Destination 


Place extra 

por ton 


Rs. A 


OOOOOP 00007 


Talcher 
Tanuku 
Tapri 
Taran Taran 
Tarikeri 
Tatanagar 
Thana -bhawan , 
Tikekarwadi 
Tindharia 
Tinsukla 
Tirurpurr 
Tiruvaru 
Tiagarh 
Titilgarh 
Tropos; 
Trichoinoroly 


Rs, A P . 
17 4 0 Uluberia . 
18 80 Umária 
34 12 0 Una 
37 8 Unao 
1 8 12 0 

Nil. 
34 40 
16 4 0 Vambori 
41 12 0 Varkhodi (Varkhedi) . 

8 0 Verka 
I2 O Vikhroli 
8 0 Villivakkam 
4 0 Viragram 
80 Virudhunagar 
8 0 Vishunpur 

Vishrambag 
1900 Vishvamitri 
23 12 0 Vizagpattam ( Port & Town ) 
31 4 0 Vizianagram , 
15 4 0 Vyasa 


motorgood 


AAAAAOOOOO 0000000000000 


4 


0 


Trichur 


Trivendrum (Central) 
Tugalakbabad 
Tumkur 
Tungabhadra Dam 
Tuticorin 


22 4 
12 4 


O 


21 00 


Udaipur 
Udumalpet 


Wadwan 

Walajabad 
26 8 0 Waltergunj 
18 8 0 Wardah 

Warisaliganj 

Warsanudi 
16 12 0 
30 00 
26 8 0 
8 12 0 Yesvantapur 


000000 


. 


. 


• 21 0 

16 12 
- 24 8 


. 


Ugarkhurd 
Ujhani 
Ujjain 
Ukhra 


. 


. 


. 


13 


8 


0 


APPENDIX DI 

EXTRAS LIST 
The following extras are to be added over the base prices for the Sections, qualities, etc. 
specificd below : 

A . - BARS, STRUCTURALS, PLATES , SHEETS , SEMIS & RAILS . 
A . Base Price Item No. I- - Bars (Rounds and Squarcs below 3 " and Flats upto and including 

5" wide) 


Rate 


per ton , 
Rs. A . P . 


3 12 
35 0 
35 0 


5/ 16 " : 


70 


1. (1) Rounds and Squares and below 

1 / 2 " . 
7 / 16 " , 
3 /8 " , 
1 4 . 
3 / 16 , 

11 /32 " 
(11) Limit Bars (Rounds and Squares to half the tolerance prescribed in 

IRS. S . M . 6 /34 and Hexagone to I. R . S . S . M . 5 / 40 over tested Base 

Price ) 
( 111) Hexagon Bars . . . . . . . 

. . 


0000000 


85 0 
ΙΙΟ 


25 
37 


O 
8 


o 
0 


PART II — Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


713 


, 


50 OO 
33 00 


( iv ) Half Round Bars (Over price of flats of same thicknces and width ) 
(v ) Hexagon Bars to I.R . S . S . 3 / 38 . 
(vi) Agrico Bars - . . . 

(a ) Extra for shape (Octagons) 
(6 ) Extra for High Carbon (-61•7 per cent Carbon ) . 


000 


2. 


Thin 


Flats — 


( Rate in Rupees per ton ) 


Width 


Thickness 
16 - - G , 14 - G 12 – G 10G 

or or or Op . 3/16" 1/4" 5/ 16 " 3/8" 7/16" 1/2" 
I/16" 5/64" 3/32 " 1/8" 

zo 25 25 25 


115 


180 


iso 


IIS 


IIS 
IIO 
I10 
100 


I30 
120 


IOS 


LA 


IOO 


100 


15/161 


I 


IIS 


.. 


130 


I20 


IIO 


. 


....................... 


I20 


. 


100 


60 


finnurnunun 


:::::::::::::::: 


. 


in:::::::::::::::: 


:::::::::::::::: 


::::::::::::::: 


. 


Rate 
per ton . 
Rs. A . P . 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 225 0 0 
. 190 00 


2 . A . Thin · Flats - - 

3 / 4 " X 19 / 20 gauge . . . . 

I X 18 " . . . . . . 
3. Bevelled Flatsacom . . . . 

I 1/ 2 " X I" X 1 /4 " 

2" 1/ 4 " Flats with top Round Edges . . 
B . Base Price Item No. 2-- Bars, Other Sizes , 

I. Rounds 

3.4 to 5 * . . . . . . 


10 оо 
1000 


• 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


13 12 


··· 


6 . 1 /2 " 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


26 
33 12 0 


· 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


8 " . . . . 
2 . Squares 

3 , 3: 1/8", 3. 1/4", and 3- 1/2" 


OOOOOO 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


13 


12 


714 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1966 


(PART IISec . 3 


B . --Base Price item No . 2 - Bars , Other Sizer - conti. 


Rate per tan . 

Rs, A . p . 


.. 


NON 


...... 


00000000 


+ 


3. Large Flats ( including R. E. Flats) — 
(i) Width 8 " and over 

(a ) Thickness 1 / 2 " and over 
b ) Thickness under 1 / 2 " to 3 /8 " 
ic ) Thl kaegg under 3 / 8 " to 3 / 16 " 

(d ) Thickaces under 3/ 16 " to 1/4 " 
( ii) Width overy " and under 8 " 

( a ) Thickness 1 / 2 " and over 
(6 ) Thicknegg under 1 / 2 to 3 / 8 " 
(c ) Thickness under 3 /8 to 5 / 16 " 

(d ) Thickness under 5 /16" to 1/4 " 
C . - Base Price Item No . 3 — Structurals 

I. Joisto 

24 X 7; 1/2" . 
22 " x 7 ". 
20* $ 6. 1/2" : : . .: 
20 * X 6 1 /4 " . 
18 " X 6 " 
4 : 3/4 " XI. 2/4 
4 X3 X 10 168 . or 9 : 5 
4x2 21/32" 

4 " x 2 " L . W . Joist 
3X1 1/2 
2 . Channels 


0 


. 


0000 


0 


XI. 314 " · 


· 


· 


00 


7 


8 


IZ " x 3 . 1/ 2 " . 
10 * X 4 " , 


. 


. 


. 


IO X3 . . . . 


IO " x 3 . 1 /2 " 
9 X3 : 1/2 
8 * * 3 . 


7 


XXXXXXXXXXXXX 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 

. 


0000000000000000+++0 00000000000000000000000000000 

0 


NNNOWwwwwwat 


................! 


5 * 2. 1/2" . . 

X 2 " 9 24 lbs. 
x 2 x 7 .91 lbs. , 

x 2 " X 7. 09 lbs. 
4 * XI 3 /8 " . . 
3 X 1 1 /2 " . 
1 1 /4 " x 1 3 /8 " . 
I 1 /2 " X I 1, 4 " 


C . Base Price Item No . 3 - Structurat - contd . 


(Rates in Rupees per ton .) 


3 . (a ) Angles 


upees Her Home 


PART 
11 
_ 
Sec 
. 
3 
) 


Size 


1/2" 


7/ 16 " 


3/8" 


5/ 16 


1/4" 


3/ 16° 


9, 64" 


1/8" 


5/32" 


5 X 3 * 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


" 


.... 


w 


: 
: 
: 


, 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 


, 
. 
. 


4 X 3 
3 . 1/2 " X 3 1/ 2 " 
3 . 1/ 2 " X 3 . 
3 . 1° /2 X 2 . 1/ 2" 
3 X 3 . 
3 " X 2 . 1 /2 " . 
3 X 2 * . 
23/ 4 " X 2 3 / 4 " 
2 . 1/2 " X 2 . 1/ 2 " 
2 . 1/ 2 " X 2 . 
2 1/2 " x 1. 1/2" 
2 . 1/4 " X 2. 1/4 " 
2 X 2 . 
2 X I 1/ 2" . 
I 3 4 " X 3 /4 " 
I 3/4 X I 1/4 " 
I. 1/ 2 X 1 . 1 /2 " 
I 1/4 X 1. 1 /4 " 
I " X I . 
3/4 " X 3/4 " , 


500 5 0 
. 

. . 
. 

. . 
Oo 5o 


.......... 


. . I 4 O 

I 40 
. I 4O . . 

I 4 O 
I 4o 

I 4 0 3 12 O 
. . I 4 0 3 12 0 
5 0 78 0 8 12 O 
5o 78 0 8 12 O 
5 00 78 0 8 12 0 
5 OO 7 8 8 
11 4 O 12 8 0 15 OO 
II 40 12 8 0 15 OO 
IL 4 O 12 8 O 15 

oo 
II 4 O 12 8 0 15 00 

i 2000 . . 
2000 2000 2000 23 12 O 

.. .. 27 8 30 OO . . 
16 4 0 . 18 12 0 20 0 0 23 12 O . . 

25 0 0 28 12 0 
25 OO 27 8 35 OO 35 OO 
25 00 27 8 0 . . 70 00 


::::::::::::::::::: 


: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
º 
: 
Ŝ 
: 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
, 
MAY 
12 
, 
1956 


: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 


. 
. 
. 
. 


10 OO 


. 


• 
: 
* 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 


o 


. . 


. 1800 


. . 


. 


3000 


" 


::::: 


: 
: 
: 
: 
: 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. , 


715 


716 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


[ PART II – Sec . 3 

- - - 


C .-- Base Price Jtem No. 3 — Striçturals - - contd . 

3. (b) Angles 


Rate per ton 


Rs. A . P . 


15 


8 " x 8 " 
3 X 2" X 1 /4 " (Wagong Doors) . * 
2 1/2 " X 13 /16 " (Door striking Bars) . . 
33/ 4 X 1 7 / 8 " X 3 /4 " Horn Check Section 
2 . 1 /2 " X 2 . 1 /2 " X 3 /8 " with round back and Sg . root 
2 1/2 " X 2 . 1/ 2 " X 1 /4 " with round back and Sq , root 
21/ 2 " X 2 1 / 2 X 3 /8 with round back and root 

2 1 / 2 " X 2 1/ 2 " X 1 /4 " with round back and root . 
4 . Bulh Angles , 

10 " X 3 . 1 /2 " X 3 /8 " and thicker 
5 1 / 2 " X 3 X 3 /8 " 
4 " X 2 . 1 / 2 " . . 


20 
20 
IQ 
ΙΟ 
ΙΟ 


OOOOOOOO 00000000 


.... 


ܘܗܩ 


IS 


O 


...::::::::: 


............ 


OOCOOOOOOOOO 


. 


. 


52 SO 


3 . Tees 

3 " x 3 " x 38 " 
4 " x 3 " x 3 /8 " 
4 " x 3 " x 7 / 16 " , 
3 " x 3 " X 3. 8 " 
2 . 1/ 2 " X 2 . 1 / 2 " X 3 /8 " 
2 1/ 2 " X 2 . 1/2 " X 1 / 4 " 
2 " X 2 X 1 /4 " 
2 . 1/ 4 " x 2 . 1/4 " X 17 " 
2 " L . W . Tees , 
1 . 3, 4 " X I 3 /4 " X 3/ 16 " X 2 14 lbg 
1 : 3 / 4 X 1 3 / 4 " x 1 / 4 " . . . 

I 1 /2 " X 1 . 1/ 2 " X 1 /4 " . . . . . . 
6 . Bridge Rails , 

56 lbs. and 70 lbs . . . . . . . 
D - Base Price Item No. 4 – Plates 3 /8 " and up 

1. Thickness 

5 / 16 " . . 
1 / 4 " . 
3 / 16 " , 

. . . . . . 
2 . Circular or Half Circular Plates , , , , , 
3 . Miscellaneous--- 

Plates below 24 " wide . . . . . . . 
Plates weighing over 2 tons per piece 
Cold Flattening 3 / 16 " and up . . 

Copper Bearing Plates with Copper content . I to 2 per cent. 
4 . Normallsing -- 

3/ 16 " and up 
$ . (i) Extras for Heavy Plates 3 / 16 " thick and thicker -- 
Extra for thickness 

Over It" upto and including 1 , 
" I upto and including 1 3/4 " . 
" 1 3/4 " upto and including 2* . 

. . . . . . . . 


... 


ir 


. 
, 


, 
, 


OAO C000 


. 


NO 


. 


.... 


0000 


0000 


0 


. 


OOOO OOOO 


. 


. 


30 0 


Extra for sizes , 
Width for every 3 " or part over the following limits of width 
(a) 1/4 " and under 3 /8" thick , 66 " wide . . : 

2 
(6) Under 1/4" down to and including 3 /16 " thick for every 6 " or part 
in excess of 60 wide . . 

. . . . . II 


0 


0 


4 


0 


PART II Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


717 


ооо 


· 


. 


. 


. 


· 


. 


Rate per 

ton 

Rs. A . P . 
( il ) Extras for medium plates under 3/ 16 thick 
Extras for length 
Exceeding 12" and upto and lạcluding 14 . . 

5 8 o 
” 14 and upto and including 16 . . . . 940 
16 and upto and including 20 

. , . II 4 0 
E . - Basc Price Item No. 5 – Chequered Plates 1/4 " and up 

1. Thickness 
3 / 16 " . . . . . . . . . 

. . 100 0 
2 . Circular or Half Circular Plates . . . . . . . 25 0 0 
3 . Miscellaneous — 
Plates below 24 " wide . . . . 

10 OO 
Plates weighing over 2 tons per piece 

Cold Flattening 3 / 16 " and up . . . 
4 . Normalising- - 
3/ 16 " and up . . . . . . . . . 

- 15 00 
1/ 8" . . . 

, 780 
F . — Base Price Item No. 6 - Boller Plates 3/8" and up 

1. Thickness 

5 / 16 " . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 I2 O 
14" 

7 80 
3 / 16 " . . . . . . . . . . . . II 4 0 
2 . Circular or Half Circular Plates 

. 25 OO 
3. Miscellaneous 
Plates below 24" wide . 

IO 0 0 
Plates weighing over 2 tons per piece . 

το ο ο 
Cold Flattenig 3 / 16 " and up . . . 

IO OO 
4 . Normalising 

3 / 16 " and up 
G . – Base Price Item No. 7 - Black Sheets (Gauges 10 to 14) 

I. Extra for Gauge --- 

15 to 16 gauge 
19 to 18 Gauge . . . . . . . . . 1000 
19 to 20 Gauge 
21 to 22 Gauge . 
* 23 to 24 Gauge . 
25 to 26 Gauge 

· 350 
27 Gauge . . 

. 5000 
28 Gauge . . . . . . . . . . 57 00 
29 Gauge . . . . . . . . . 64 00 
30 Gauge . . 

7700 
31 Gauge . . . . . . . . . . . 84 0 0 
* Not applicable to 24 Gauge Black corrugated sheets . 


... 


. 


.. 


.. 


15 


0 


718 


THE GAZETTE 


F INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


[PART II - SEC . 3 


Rate per ton 

Rs. A . P . 


500 
13 00 
500 


G . – Base Price Item No.7 — Black Shects (Guages 10 to 14 )- contd . 

2 . Extras for special processing 

* ) Unanncaled corrugated , . 
tii ) Anncalcd corrugated , 
( iii) Cold Rolling ( for cach pass) . 
(iv ) Roller Levelling . 
(v) Pickling (once pickled ) 

( a ) 14 / 24 Gauge . . 
(0 ) 25 /26 Gauge 
( C ) IQ Gauge 
( d ) II to 13 Gauges 

© 28 Gauge 
( f) 29 Gauge 
(8 ) 30 Gauge 


..... 


00000000" 0000000000 


.. 


... 


(vi) Coating with Linseed oil 
(vii) Coating with Prevoke oil 
( viii ) Dçoxydisation of sheets 
3 . Extras for Special Quality 
(1) Black Panel sheets tested to I.R . S. Specification No. M -22/ 39 up to 24 

Gauge ( over tested Base Price ) 
( it) Blacke Sheets to a modification of B .S. Specification No . 13 of 1910 

(over tested Base Price.) . 
(ii) Black Sheet to Specification B.S./STAS/V /2c & V3 . : : 
(iv ) High Carbon Sheets 


65 00 


oop 


22 8 0 


- 40 % to under - 50 % carbon 

50 % to under 60 % carbon 
- 60 % to under 710 % carbon . 
- 70 % to under 80 % carbon . 


35 00 
50 0 0 
60 00 
208 00 


оооо 


. 


N . B . — Where High Carbon sheets call for Carbon ſange within more than one of the above 
specifications the higher extra will be rocoverable. For instance , if . 35 per cent, to - 55 per cent. 
carbon sheets are required the extra will be Rs. 50 per ton . 


115 00 


( v ) Double scaming quality . 
( vi ) Dead soft quality 
( vii) Double Annealed sheets 
(viil ) Drum quality . 
(ix ) Deep Drawing or Deep Stamping quality 

( x ) Normalising , 
( xi ) Spring Steel sheets from Electric Furnance 
(xii ) Copper Bearing sheets with Copper Cotent 15 % to 25 % 


. 2000 
216 0 0 
15 00 


* Not applicable to 24 gauge Black corrugated sheets, 
+ The extra is only Rs. 8/- per ton in case of 24 gauge Black corrugated sheets . 


G . - -Base Price Item No. 7 - Black Sheets (Guages io to 14 , contd . 

4 . Extras for Special Sizes 
(1) Black Sheets 

(Rate # Rupees per ton ). 


PARTIISEC.8] 


Size 


Gauges 
17G 18G 


IOG 


IIG 


12G 


13G 


14G 


ISG 


16G 


19G 


20G 


216 


22 /23G 24 G 24 /25G 26G 


28G 


la 


• 


mos 


3 12 


12 


::::::: 


::::: 


II 4 


3 I2 


IZ 


SI 


2 - 11 X 8 - 6 " 
2 - 6 X 10 " , . 
2 - 3 XI 
2 - 31 92 
2 46X2 . 
3 - OXI 
3 XI 
3 XI 
3 X2 
3 X2 26 
3 - 2X2 - 4 
346x2 : 
4 43 . 
4 XIO — 41 
4 XI - 6 " . 
4x1- 81 . 
4 X7! X4 
4 X6 - 10 . 
4 - 71x3 - 101 
448 XI IO " 
SHXISIO 
6 XI 3 , 
6 XI - 7 . 
6 XI $ . 
6 XI - 10 , 
6 X4 8 " 
6 X8 


:::::::::::::::::::::: 


Iwwwwus 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,MAY12,1956 


3 12 


au 


3 12 


Qo ::: 


:::::::::::::::::::: 


3 12 


xxxx 


. 


II 


4 


Nya 


. 


7 X6 


II 


4 


3 12 


7 - I XI - 101 
74X1 - 10 
8 xi - 10° 
8X1 - 8 } , 


. 


. 


7 


8 


312 


" 


. 


" 


. 


. 


. 


3 12 


. 


" 


. 


720 


19G 


20G 


21G 2223 24 


25 


26G 


28G 


3 


IZ 


G . Base Price Item No. 7 - -Black Sheet (Gauges 10 to 14 ) conid . 

4 . Extras for Special Sizes contd . 
(i) Black Sheets contd . 

(Rale in Rupees per ton ) 

Gauges 
Size 

IOG IIG 12G 13G 14G 15G 16G 17G 18G 
8 * 1 - * . 

. . 22 8 
8 - 6X6* 

. . 11 4 , 
8 6 X3 - 25 

. . 18 12 
8 = 924 - 61 
9 - 1 2 – 31* 
9 - - 10° X 53 
9 - 10 3 - 97 

X6 * . 
9 X 3 
9 X4 - 5 . 

3 12 

3 12 
9 X 18 " 

3 12 
IOʻX 16 " 

3 12 


8: 9 * 5" 


7 


8 


10 


98 


:::::::::::::::: 


9 
7 


6 
8 26 


4 


Huwwwwvoo 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,MAY12,1936 


3 12 


0000 


3 12 


3 12 


3 I2 7 8 
3 12 7 8 
3 12 II 4 
3 12 II 


I 





XXXXXX 


3 IZ 


ннн 


www..www. 


IO 


To 


T 


10 


Το . 


: 


3 12 


10 


hahrt xxxxxxxxx wwdaNNWONENTxx 


12 
5 I2 
5 12 
5 12 


TY 


45Амли. 


I8 I2 


:::::::::::::::::::: 


. 


IO 


:::::::::::::::: 


: 
: 
: 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


. 


. 


. 


3 12 


[PARTII—SEC.3 


. 


• 


I 


. 


10 5 X3 - 11 
10 - 6 * 33* 
TO X5 . 
1077x34 
10 6X2 - 7 
10 - 2 X 341" 


. 


www. 


2 12 


. 


. 


. 


12 


. . 


contd . 


-- 


G . Base Price Item No. 7 - Black Sheets (Gauges 10 to 14 

4 . Extras for Special Sizes - contd . 

(1) Black Sheets - contd . 


( Rate in Rupees per lon ) 


- 


Size 


Gauges . 
16G 17G 


10G 


IIG 


12G 


13G 


14G 


15G 


18G 


19G 


20G 


21G 22 /23G 245 


256 


266 


28G 


PARTII-Sec.8] 


unul 


5 12 
5 12 
S 12 


SI2 


3 


IZ 


. . 


15 


0 


$ 12 


512 


. . 


18 


8 12 


:::::::::::::::::::: 


- 


- 


- 


- 


10 X2 - 21 
IO X 29 
IO X37 
IO X 45° 
10 - 3 X 36 
10 - 2x355 
TO X3 . 
10 x2 - 81" 
IO X2 - 81 
10 2 – 65 
10 - 6 " X 45 
10 - 6X3 - 7 
10 6°x42 " 
10 - 9 X37 
10 - 9x437 
10 - 6 X 460 
10 6 x 49 
10 - 3 X4 - 3 
10 - 99X361 
1091X34 
IO - II X4 - 6 " 
10 - 3 X 48 
10 - 3 X387 
10 x 36 " 
10 -- 4x3 . 
10 4 " X 38 + 
10 5 " X 3 
10 X48 . 
II x3 
II X3 to 3 
II Xover 3 – 6 to 4 
II X3 - 6 . 
II X3 — 9 . 
II X4 

. . 
II X4 3 " . . 
II I X3 . 


X 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,MAY12,1956 


3 12 


. 


L 


3 12 


AUN. 


II 


O 


a 


II 


O 


. . 

8 


13 
7 


2 
8 


. . 


: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 


13 


2 


. 


II 


4 


. 
. 


ISO 

. 


. 
. . 


. . 

. 


13 
32 


2 
0 


. 


. 


. 


" 


. 


. 


. 


721 


722 


19G 


20G 


21G 


22 /23G 


4G 25G 


26G 


28G 


G . Base Price Item No. 7 — Black Sheets (Gauges 10 to 14 ) cond. 

4 . Extras for Special Sizes contd . 
(1) Black Sheets contd . 

(Rate in Rupees per ton ) 

Gauges 
Sizes 

IG IIG 12G 13G 4G 15G 16G 176 18G 
II - 3 X2 - 4 . 

18 12 
II - 3x3 - 0 

18 12 
II - 3 x3 - 71" 

26 4 
II - 3x3 - 71" 
II I X4 
II4 X 56 
II - 4x28 " 

18 12 
II - 4 30 
II - X2 - 61 " 
II - IX2 - 47 
11 - 4 ! * 4 - 6 . 
II 6 x 3 . 
II _ 6X4 

2 13 2 
II - 3 x24 

18 12 
II - 6 X4 -26 

29 10 20 10 


: 


26 


XXXX 


-- 


.......... 


: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 


Hi::::::::::::::::::::::: 


. 


: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,MAY12,1968 


= 


9 


0000 


TilXXX 


:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 


. 


15 Ois 


28 


ลลลลล 


:. 


agana 


0000000000 





mnam 


+0.0.0 


15 


: 
OOOOOOOO 


0 15 


00000000.0 


XXXXXXXXXXXXXX 


I5 


0 18 12 18 12 


00. 


18 


i 18 12 
. . . . 15 
. . 3 12 . . 28 

28 4 15 
. 98 

IS 0 15 0 15 0 

1 , ISO 15 
3 12 . . 

. . 16 14 16 14 IS O 15 
17 0 16 14 16 14 16 14 15 
· 17 0 16 14 16 14 16 14 18 12 32 0 200 

. . 28 2 28 2 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 10 


ววตร 


:: 


, 


, . 


18 I2 


: 


::.:.:. 


[PART11—SEC.3 


: 


::::: 


ง 


. . 


12 X2 - 


. 


... 28 2 


PART II-_ SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1958 
- - = = = - - - - - - -- -- - - 


723 


- - - - - - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


Rate per ton 


RS, A , I . 


OOOOOO 


. 


15 00 


O 


G .- - Base Price Item No. 7 — Black Sheets (Gauges 10 to 14)- - contd . 

4 . Extras for Special Slxe - contd . 
( ii) Black Corrugated Sheet: 

( 1 ) 16GX8 / 3 " Corr. XIT 0 " . 
( 2 ) 246 XR/ 3 " Corr. X 120 . 
3 ) 24G X 10 8 " Corr, x12 - 0 . 
(4 ) 24G X 8 / 3 " Corr.XII - 0 " . 
( 5 ) 24GX8/ 3 " Corr. X 10 - - " 
(6 ) 26GX 10 /3 " Corr . X9 - 0 

(7 ) 26G X 8 , 3 " or 9 / 3 " or 10 / 3 " Corr. x 10 - 01 
(iii) The follwing extras will apply to sizes not mentioned above 
(a ) For widths over 3 and under 3t for such gauges as can be 

supplied in these widths 
(6 ) for width : 31 and up to 4 for such gaugc8 28 can 

supplied in these widtns 
(C) For widths over 4 and up to 4t for such gauges as can be sup 

plier in those widths 
(iv ) For non - standard sizes of sljects (but not smaller than 4 x2 
(L ) Reshearing to a tolerance closer than plus 3 / 8 " , 

(vi) Extra for rollin s sheets to specified thickness tolerance , 
(vii ) Panel Sheets 

10 - 0 " X3 - 3" x 3 /32 " ( 13G ). 

12 -0 " X2 - 8* X 3 / 32 " ( 3G ) 
5 . Panel Plates - - 
(1) Crating charges (per ton ) for Panel Plates 

Box weighing approximately 2 tons gross . 
Box weighing approximately 5 tons gross 
Box wieghing approximately 2 cwts. grogs 

Box wieghing ( Extra Strong ) 2 cwts. gross . . . 
(11) For Packing in stec ) envelopes , . . 

. . 
Inspection of Papel Plates — 
All Papel Plates will be put up for Surface Inspection by Govern 

ment and the inspection fee will be charged to the customer . 


OOOOOO 


5 12 0 
700 


32 8 0 
25 oo 
30 00 
40 00 
13 8 


6 . Stretcher Levelled Sheets 

( ) Patent Plattening and gripper marks removed . . . . 
( 11) End shearing after Nattering i. e., Stretcher levelling plus re -shcar 

ing on all sides . . . . . . . . 


15 0 


0 


26 4 


0 


16 


33 


H .- - Base Price Item No. 8 - -Galv. Corrugated Sheets 

1. 24GX6/ 1oft. long 
(1) Gauge and length 
16 jauge 

less than the basis price 

Do , 
17 / 18 gauge 

Do. 

Do . 
19 , 20 » 
1€ 12 

over the basis price 

Do. 
17718 , 
17 / 18 » 12 
19 / 20 » 

Do. 
19 / 20 » 

Do . 
21/ 24 » 
21 / 24 ) 

Do . 
25 

Do . 
Do. 


IT 


Do . 


IT 


484%๒๒ยงดีดี 0000000000OOOO 00000000000000 


12 


12 


Do. 
Do. 


NN 


23 


724 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1958 


[PART II - SEC . 3 

--- - - 
Rate per ton . 

Rs. A . P . 


H . - Base Price Item No. 8 – Galv . Corrugated Sheets - contd . 

1. 24GX 6 / 10 | ft . long - contd . 
(i) Gauge and length - contd . 
25 Gauge II over the basis price 
IZ 

Do . 
6 / 8 

Do . 


Do. 


26 


» 


26 


to 


26 


26 


12 


Do . 


27 


Do. 
Do . 


( ii) For Non - Standard Sizes 
( Ill ) Extras for Special sizes . 

10 -24 X 10 /3 corr. (2 -8 “) x 18G . . . . . 

TOP-3" x 10/3 corr. (2 -8") x 17/ 18G . . . . . 
Plain Shects 
(i) For Standard Sizes . . . . . . . . 
(ll) For Non -Standard sizes not less than 6 in length and z in width 

(edges ungalvanised where sheared ) , . . . , 


2 . 


OOOOOOOOOOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOORDAAR 


22 00 


N 


( iil) Galv , Plain Sheet --- 7 - 6 59 " X 18G . . 

8x3 — 2 X 22 . 
12 X 12 " X 18G . . 
19 . 75 " x 3 . 875" X 22 / 24G 
19 . 75" x 5 . 875 " X 22/ 24G 
951 " X 231 x 26G . 
707" X 361" X 16G . 
12 — OX4 - 0 X 14G . 

10 x 3 X 28G 
( lv ) Drum Quality Sheets 

(v) For sharing G . P . Sheets less than the minimum size of 6 xx . 
3. Tested sheets To I. S .D . Specn . G /Metals 41/H and Specn . No. ISI-277 

over tested Base Price ) 


Class- I Extra Heavy Zinc coating (average 2 : 50 oz per sq . ft .) 
20G and thicker . 

35 4 0 
21 /24G 

. . . . . . . . . 58 8 0 
26G and thinner , 

82 00 
Class- II Special Quality 

(2 oz. spelter ) 16 /20G . . . . . . . . 15 OO 
( 2 oz . spelter) 21 / 24G . . . . . . . . 30 OO 

(2 oz . spelter) 26G . . . 
Claes -III ‘ Prime Merchant Quality , 
(1•1/2 oz. spelter ) 16 /24G , . . 

10 OO 
(1 1 /2 oz . spelter) 26G 

. , 15 00 
4 . Depth of corrugation 

For 3/4" Depth of Corrugation . : : : : 700 
5. (i) Shearing G . C . Sheets in length below 6 X2 . . . . 300 

( ii) For Annealing G . C . Sheets 18G and thinner . . . . 7 o 


PART 1 - buc. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


725 


OOOOOOOO 


tvonod 


3. Driling bond-holes : 


: 


: : 


: : 


: : 


: 


Rate per ton . 

Rs. A . P . 
I.- - Base Price Item No. 9 — Heavy Rails — 

I . Sandberg Controlled Cooled Rails 
2 . Chrome Steel Rails — 

( a ) Ordinary , 

(0 ) Special 
3 . Rails for switches and crossinge in standard lengths of not less than 27 

and not more than 42 
us lba, Section Rails . 
Rails over 42 but not exceeding 45 in length in ordinary quality not 

subject to controlled cooling treatment 

Rails less than 27 other than switches and crossings 
7 . Drilling bond -holes . 

8 . Specified lengths of not less than 27 , 
J. - Base Price Item No. IO Fish Plates for Heavy Rajls - Class A 

• 2500 

. 3 8 0 
K . - Base Price Item No. 11 - Light Rails 30 lbs and below 

1. Specified length 
L . – Base Price Item No . 12 — Fishplates for Light Rails , 

Nil . . . . . . . . . . Nil. 
M .- -Basc Price Item No. 13 — Tool Steel Bars TSC /2 or TSC /2A 

I . Rounds 3 " to 5 " and Squares 3 " to 3 1 / 2 " . 
2 . Flats over 5 " and under 8 " wide, thickncar under 1 / 2 down to 
3 . Flats 1 " to 2 . 1 / 2 " wide , thickness 1 /8 " or 3 / 16 " 
4 . Flats under 1 " wide, thinkness 1 /8 " . 
5 . Flats under 1 " wide, thickness 3 / 16 " . 

200 
6 . Flats under 1" wide , thickness 1 /4 " or 5 / 16 " , 
7 . Flats under 1 " wide, thickness 3 /8 " and over . 

8 . Octagonal Bary 3 /4 " to 1 1/ 4 " . 
N . - Bage Price Item No. 14 -- Bullet proof plates, Specification IT70C 

1 . Final Heat Treatment 
2 . Sectional Extras 

( 1) 4 mm , thick 
(il) 5 mm . » 
(ili) 6mm . » 
(iv ) 7 mm . yy 

( v ) 8 mm . » 
3 . For special annealing preparatory to Gas cutting of plates- - 10 mm . 

thick and over 
4 . For Gas cutting 
5 . lor each hole drilled . 

o 8 
0 . – Basc Price Item No. 15 - - Shell Steel Bloom 

Nil. . . . . . . . . . . . Nil 
P . - Base Price Item No. 16 — Shell Steel Bars 

1. 8" Diameter or Gothic Section . . . . . . . 26 4 0 
Q . - Base Price Item No. 17 — Blooma, Şalbs and Billets , 

1. (a) Por Billets to I. R . S. S. M . 6 / 34 , Class V (Boller quality ) 

(6 ) Boiler Rivet quality Billets . , 
2 . Telegraph wire quality 
3 . 35 /40 Tons Tensile Basic Open Hearth quality 

Tiscrom quality Billets and Tiscrom Rivet quality Billets 
Deep Drawing quality Tin Bar 
Electric spring atcel Billets 
(i) Specification M . 10 /34 . 

216 
( ii) Specification M . 11/ 34 water hardened . 

216 0 
( iii) Specification M . 11 / 34 oil hardened . 

226 0 
(iv ) Specification M . 24 / 34 . 

266 0 
( V ) Specification M . 25/ 34 , 

291 
(vl) Specification M . 10 (Basic Open Hearth ) 

166 0 


00000000 


00000000000000000 


GBAO 


0000 


OOOOOOOOOOAA 000000000000 


726 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


[PART II - SEC . 3 


S 


. - 


. 


Rate per ton 
Rs. A . P . 


216 , 

00 
233 00 
250 0 


266 0 


· 


123 


Io 0 0 
3 12 0 
50 00 
120 00 


9 


6 


0 


Q . -- Base Price Item No. 17 — Blooms, Salbs and Billets - contd . 

7. Electric High Carbon Spring Steel Billets - Analysis of Billets (carbon 

percentage ) 
(1) 5 to 6 
(li) 61 to 75 
(iii) - 76 to . 90 

( iv ) . 91 to 1 . 2 
8 . Billets to specification TSC . 2 
9 . Cutting charges for Blooms, Billets and Slæbs up to 15 " Sq. . 
IO . Billets with manganese content over 0 . 70 to 1 % . 
II. Electric Acid Steel Billets . 

s 

. . . 
12. Electric Steel tested to M . S . 2713 . 
R . – Miscellaneous Extras on all Steel - , . 
1, Special quality , 
I. • Tensile Test or Carbon Content of Sheets 
Curbon Range 

Tensile Test ( in tons per sgr . inch ) 
( a ) 15 % to 25 % 

. . 22 – 27 
(6 ) over 25 % to 30 % 

25 - 29 . 
(C ) 30 % to 35 % 

. 27 – 32 . 
(d ) „ . 35 % to 40 % . . 30 – 35 . 
2 . Spraying steel strips with Linseed oil instead of olling the strips 

individually 
3 . Mild steel Fluts to specificd thickness tolerance ( close to plus 0 . 008 " 

and minu 0 . 004" and to plus /minus 1 / 32 " ) . . . . . 
4 . For coiling M . S. Rods below 7 / 16 " dla 
5. Tested Flats 

(a ) 3/4 " X 7 / 16 " 

(6 ) 13 /16 " X 716 . . . . . . . . 
6 . (a) Special extra for packing of Drum Sheets in i ton steel envelope 

(b ) Packing of Drum Sheets in 5- Ton steel envelope 
7 . Extra for Gas cutting charges . . . . . . . 
8 . Wrapping with gunny bags . . . . . . 
9 . Extras for scelling of barg 

1•1/ 2 " and above 
under 1 . 1 / 2 " to I" 

» I" to 7 / 8 " 
» 7 /8 to 3 / 4 " . 
» 3 / 4 " to 5 / 8 " 

» 5 /8 " to 1 / 2 " 
10 . Extra for Rimmimg steel Billet , Bars , Structurals and Sheets 
II. Alluminium killed steel 
12. Vanadium Rimming Steel Shects 
13 . Low sulphur & Phosphorus .035 % . 
14 . (a ) Electric Şteel — 


25 


28 8 0 
8 oo 
10 o o 
12 8 0 


.... 


(1) C Class or Class III : 


: 


: 


: 


: 


: 


: 


: 


(it) D Class or Class IV . . 
(6 ) Open Hearth Steel 

(i) C Class or Class III . . 

( i ) D Class or Class IV , 
(c ) Tiscrom High Tengile Bars and Structurals . 
( d ) Tiscrom High Tensile Plates , . 
(6 ) Tiscrom Sheets . 
( f ) Tiscor Bars and Structurals . 

Tiscor Plates . . 
Tiscor Sheets 

Flanging pressing quality Plates and Flats . 
( 1) Boller quality Bars and Structurals . 


00000000OOOOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOACOOOOOOOOCA 


107 
107 
122 
143 
143 


, 


. 


Part It Sec. 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MÀY 12, 1966 


727 


YA 


Do 


Rate per ton . 

Rs. A p . 
R . - Miscellaneous Extras on all Steel - contd . 
I. Special quality — conid . 

(k ) Steel Tested to Lloyds specification 
(i) Black sheets . 

I0 0 0 
( ii ) Plates and all sections . . . 

900 
(1) (i) For Normallsing Bars 

Rounds and Squares 3 " to 8 " . 
Bars weighing I 502 lb . per ft, and heavier 
Bars under I 502 lb . to 668 lb . per ft. , 
Bars under 668 lb . to 376 lb . per ft. . . 

Bars under . 376 lb . per ft. . . 
(11) For Izod Test . . . 
(m ) (i) Bars to B . S . S. 51, Grade A . 

(ii) Bars to B . S . S . 61 and Specn . T } . 

(iii) Bars to B . S . S . 32 / 4 (Basic Open Hearth ) 
(n ) Bars to I. R . S. S . M . 26 / 35 
(i) Basic Open Hearth , Class X 
Do 

XI 
(it) Electric or Acid Steel, Class X 

XI , 

. 
(0 ) (i) Bars to Specification EN . 1 - S Basic open Hearth Steel . 

Electric steel . 
(ii) Do EN . 6 
( iii). Do. EN . 7 

Do. EN . 8 . 

Do . EN . 10 
( vi) Do . EN . 32 . . . 
(p ) (i) Extra for Specification I.R . S. R . 18 / 37 (Acid Steel) 

( ii) Do. I. R .S .R . 17 (Acid or Electric Steel) . 
(iii) Do . I. R . S .R . 29 Do 

(iv ) Do. I. R . S . T . IA /34 and T , 1/ 39 . 
(9 ) Basic open Hearth High carbon Steel - carbon contents 

* 35 per cent to 45 per cent . . . . . 
- 4 per cent to 5 per cent . . 

* 45 per cent to 85 per cent . 
(r) For copper contents in steel 

Copper upto 35 per cent . 
Copper over 35 per cent upto 5 per cent . 

Copper over 5 per cent upto - 75 per cent . 
(s ) Stçel tested to BSS 449 of 1948 and BSS 968 of 1941 . 

. 
Lengthg 
(a ) Dead Lengths 
(6 ) Børs and Sections less than 10 , 

I 4 
( c) Length over 44 per ton per foot subject to a maximum of Rs. 20 per 

ton (Extra freight and other charges for carrying longer lengths to be 

borne by the customers ) ; . . . . . . . I o o 
3 . Extra for Marking 

I O o 


u Ovon 


( V ) 


w.4 


OOO 


00OO000OOOOOOOOOOOODOAOOOOOOOOOOO oo0000000000000OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO000 


(a) Pour letters (minimum ) 


: 


: 


: 


: 


: 


: 


: 


: 


: 


4 . Bundling and coiling charges 
Bundling or coiling for the scctionsmentioned below -- 
Angl¢g — 

3/4 " x 3 /4 " x 1 /4 " ) 
3 / 4 " x 3 / 4 " x 3 / 16 " 
3 / 4 " x 3 /4 X * 1 /8 " 
I XI" X " 3 / 16 " 
ITXI X 9 /64" 
I XI X 1 / 8 " 
it x 11 " x 1 /8 " 


728 


= 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 [PART 11 – SEC . 3 
- - - - 

Rate per ton . 

Rs. A . P . 
R . - Miscellaneous Extras on all Steell - contd . 
Squares and Rounds- - 

7/16 and smaller . . . . . . . . . 500 
Thin Flats 
For all sizes mentioned in Base Price Item No . 1, Para A (2) with the 

exception of the following : 

15/16 * X "1/4" X 5/ 16 ", 3/8 ", 7/ 16 " & 1/2" . . . . 5 00 
Bundling with wire . 

5 0 0 
Wrapping the two ends of bundles with heasian cloth including the 
cost of cloth 

5 00 
If bundling of other sizes notmentioned above is neccesary or required by 

the carrier or buyer, the aboya extra may be charged by negotiation 

with the buyer. 
S . - Wire and Wire Products 

Miscellaneous Extra on Wire and Wire Products , 
(1) For oiling wire . . . . . . . . . 10 8 0 

C . R . NATASAN , 
Iron & Stool Controller ." 


[No . SC (A )-4 (253) D .] 
M . R . MENON Under Secretary , 


- 


- 


- - 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 30th April 1956 


S . R . O . 1114. - It is hereby notified for general information that Shrimati G . 
Bharadwaj, a member of the Adysiory Panel of the Central Board of Film 
Censors at Bombay retired under sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph 
( Censorship ) Rules, 1951, with effect from the 4th March , 1956 . 

[ No . 14 / 1/ 56 - FC .] 
8 . R . O . 1115 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 9 
read with sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules, 1951, 
the Central Government hereby appoints after consultation with the Central 
Board of Film Censors Shrimati Gopa Bharadwaj, as a member of the Advisory 
Panel of the said Board at Bombay with effect from the 5th May 1956 . 

[ No . 14 / 1/66 - FC .] 
D . KRISHNA AYYAR , Under Secy . 


on thema Censors Shrineboy appoints inematographycub-rule (3) 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DILAI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELAI, 1956 


