Goa , 29th July , 1965 


SERIES I No. 18 


All correspondence referring to announcements and 
subscription of Government Gazette must be addressed 
to its administration office . Literary publications will be 
advertised free of charge provided two copies are 
offered . 


SUBSCRIPTION RATES - ASSINATURA 

YEARLY HALF - YEARLY QUARTERLY 

( Anual) (Semestral) ( Trimestral) 
All 3 series 
(As 3 series ) 

Rs. 40 / Rs. 24 / 

Rs. 18 / 
I Series Rs. 20 / 

Rs. 12 / 

Rs. 9 / 
II Series Rs, 16 / 

Rs. 10 / 

Rs. 8 ) - 
III Series Rs. 20 / Rs. 12 / 

Rs. 9 / 
Postage is to be added when delivered by mail 
Acresce n porte quando remetido pelo correio 


Toda a correspondência relativa a anúncios e à assina 
tura do Boletim Oficial deve ser dirigida à Adminis 
tração da Impresa Nacional. As publicações literárias 
de que se receberem dois exemplares anunciam - se 
gratuitamente . 


सत्यमेव जयते 


GOVERNMENT GAZETTE 


BOLETIM 


OFICIAL 


GOVERNMENT OF GOA , DAMAN 

AND DIU 


mo 


5. « Executive Engineer » in relation to the licensing 
of a place for Cinematograph exhibitions, means an 
Officer holding charge of that division of the Public 
Works Departments in which the place or premises 
is situated . 


Secretariat 


Industries and Labour Department 


6. « Form > means a Form annexed to these Rules . 


Notification 


7. « Permanent Building » means a building which 
is constructed for permanent use with stone, mud , 
brick , mortar, cement or other non -inflammable ma 
terial. 


I & L / VII / 14 / 65 


In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 16 
of the Cinematograph Act 1952 ( Central Act, 37 of 
1952 ) read with the Government of India , Ministry 
of Home Affairs Notification No. GI/GOA / 19 / 28 /63 
UTL dated 16th January 1965 , the Lt. Governor of 
Goa , Daman and Diu , is pleased to make the follow 
ing Rules : 

PART I 


Explanation : When the floor , roof , side walls , 
galleries and staircases of a building are made of 
non - inflammable material and the construction is of 
a durable nature and is certified as structurally sound 
under rule 25 , the building shall , for the purposes of 
these Rules , be deemed to be a permanent building 
and « Temporary Building » means a building which 
is not a permanent building , and includes a booth or 
barrack , thatched roof , a tent or any other structure 
constructed of inflammable material. 


Introductory 


- 


I. Title , extent and commencement : 

1. These Rules may be cited as the Goa , Daman 
and Diu Cinematograph Rules , 1965 . 


2. They shall extend to the whole of the Union 
Territory of Goa , Daman and Diu and shall come into 
force with immediate effect . 


8. « Travelling cinematograph » means a cinemato 
graph which is constructed so that it can be taken 
from place to place for the purpose of giving cine 
matograph exhibitions and also includes all cinemas 
which are being exhibited in temporary buildings 
like barracks or residential or commercial buildings 
or part thereof, and which have not obtained or are 
not eligible for grant of a licence regarding a per 
manent building under Rule 25 . 


II. Definitions: -In these Rules, unless there is 
anything repugnant to the subject or context : 

1. The « Act» means the Cinematograph Act, 1952 , 
(Central Act, 37 of 1952 ) . 


9. No person other than a company or association 
should be entitled to obtain or hold any licence under 
the Act unless such persons has attained the age of 
21 years . 


2. « Auditorium » means that portion of the pre 
mises which is usually occupied by the audience or 
spectators during a Cinematograph exhibition . 


10. If any question arises as to the interpretation 
of these Rules otherwise than in connection with a 
prosecution for an offence , the question shall be re 
ferred to the Lt. Governor , whose decision shall be 
final. 


3. « Electrical Inspector » means an Officer ap 
pointed as Electrical Inspector by the Government 
of Goa , Daman and Diu under Section 36 of the In 
dian Electricity Act, 1910 , and includes an Assistant 
Electrical Inspector . 

4. « Enclosure » means that portion of the premises 
licensed under Section 10 of the Act in which the 
Cinematograph is erected , 


11. A copy of the licence in form A printed in large 
type in English showing the name and address of the 
licensee , shall be kept during the public entertain 
ment always posted in some conspicuous place at the 
principal entrance at a height not more than 7 ft, 


mer 


WI - LLA 


www.wane were 


196 


SERIES I No. 18 


(6 ) Owing to other reasons to be recorded in writ 
ing , a fee of Rs. 50 / - shall be charged for such future 
inspection and such fee shall be paid by the licensee 
on demand by the Electrical Inspector or the Assist 
ant Electrical Inspector . 

Provided that in the case of travelling cinemato 
graph show the fee chargeable for any inspections 
shall be Rs. 30 / -. 


PART II 


Licences 


15. « The number of permanent cinemas to be li 
censed in any city or area shall be such as may be 
determined by Govt . from time to time» . 


from the floor so that all persons entering the licen 
sed premises may be acquainted with them and any 
breach of these Rules should at once be reported to 
the Licensing Authority . 

12. Every enclosure , cinematograph and electrical 
installation shall be inspected . 

( a ) When first erected and thereafter at least once 
every year by the Licensing Authority or an Officer 
deputed by him . 

(b ) When first erected and thereafter at every 
renewal of the certificate of registration in Form « C » 
annexed to these Rules by the Electrical Inspector 
or an Officer deputed by him . 

For the inspection under clause (b ) of the enclo 
sure , the Cinematograph and the electrical instal 
lation when first erected a fee of Rs . One hundred in 
the case of a permanent cinema and a fee of Rs. Fifty 
in the case of a travelling cinema shall be paid in 
advance by the applicant and for every inspection 
before the renewal of the certificate of registration 
a fee of Rs. Fifty in the case of a permanent cinema 
and a fee of Rs. Thirty in the case of a travelling 
cinema shall be paid into the Government Treasury 
under the Budget Head « Major Head XIII Other 
Taxes and Duties . Minor Head « B » Receipts from 
Electricity Duties. Fees under the Indian Electricity 
Rules 1956 and Fees for the Electrical Inspection of 
Cinemas and Other Receipts and the treasury re 
ceipt forwarded to the Electrical Inspector 3 months 
before the date of expiry of the period of validity of 
the certificate in Form « C » annexed to these Rules . 
For delayed payments an additional fee of Rs. 20 / 
in the case of a permanent cinema and Rs. 10 /- in 
the case of touring cinemas shall be charged for 
every month or part thereof, of such delay . 

The licensing authority , the Electrical Inspector or 
any Officer deputed by either in that behalf or any 
Magistrate having jurisdiction over the area or any 
police Officer not below the rank of a sub - inspector 
or any police officer specially deputed by him to keep 
law and order in the premises may , at any time, enter 
and inspect premises and plant . 

13. The licensee shall comply with such of the pro 
visions of the Indian Electricity Act 1910 and the 
Rules made thereunder as are applicable to the pre 
mises . In cases where the notice referred to in Sec 
tion 30 of the said Act has to be given to the District 
Magistrate no licence shall be granted until such 
notice has been given and the licensing authority has 
informed the Electrical Inspector of the Union to 
issue the licence . 


16. The restrictions in respect of distances between 
Cinemas shall be as specified below : 

Existing or new Travelling Cinema in any place 
shall not be allowed to run within a distance of 5 kilo 
metres of the nearest Permanent Cinema. 

The distance between any two Touring or Travel 
ling Cinemas shall be not less than three kilometres . 

There shall be no restriction in regard to the dis 
tance between one permanent cinema and another 
permanent cinema. 

The distance between Cinemas shall for the pur 
poses of this rule be reckoned along the shortest 
pathway , lane, street, road , or any other route cover 
ing the Cinemas which is generally used by the 
members of the public , from the main entrance of 
one to the main entrance of the other . 


17. A person who intends to build a Permanent Ci 
nema building shall apply in the prescribed form 
( Form B ) . 


18. The application shall be accompanied by a plan 
of the proposed site drawn to scale and shall clearly 
indicate the surrounding roads , and buildings which 
exist upto a distance of 200 yards of the proposed 
site, schools , hospitals , temples or other places being 
clearly so marked . 


Y 


14. (i) The Electrical Inspector or any Officer de 
puted by him inspecting an installation under Rules 
12 and 17 , shall if he discovers any defects therein , 
issue written orders , to the owner or the person in 
charge for their rectification and prescribe a rea 
sonable time within which such orders shall be car 
ried out. Failure to do so , shall render the licence 
liable to suspension or cancellation . 

(ii ) If in the interval between two such inspections 
any further inspection shall, in the opinion of the 
Electrical Inspector or the Officer deputed by him or 
the licensing authority has become necessary . 

( a ) Owing to the neglect or failure of the owner 
or person in charge to carry out any written orders 
issued under sub -rule (i) within the time prescribed 
by the Electrical Inspector or the Officer deputed 
by him or 


19. ( a ) A Copy of the application in Form « B » 
referred to above shall be sent to the Local Authority 
within whose limits the proposed cinema building is 
to be situated which shall forward it within one 
month from the date of receipt of application from 
the applicant to the Licensing Authority with its 
remarks recording its objections , if any to the site 
and to the installation of Machinery . 

(b ) A copy of the application shall also be sent to 
the Superintendent of Police or Sub -divisional police 
officer concerned who shall remit it within one month 
from the date of receipt of application from the ap 
plicant to the Licensing Authority with objections 
if any from the point of view of traffic and all other 
relevant factors . 

( c ) In case the reports of local authority or the 
Police officer are not received within the time limit 
prescribed or extended time limit if any , it will be 
presumed that they have no objection . 

( d ) The licensing authority shall also take into 
consideration any representations made by persons 
already giving Cinematograph Exhibitions in or near 
the proposed locality or by any local authority or 
police authority within whose jurisdiction the place 


: .:. ::... 


29TH JULY , 1965 


197 


proposed to be licensed is situated or by any asso 
ciation interested in the giving of Cinematograph 
exhibitions . 


20. After consideration of the application with 
reference to the matters specified above and the 
objections of the Local Authority and the Police , 
the Licensing Authority shall grant a no -objection 
certificate in Form « D » or may for reasons to be 
recorded in writing refuse to grant the same within 
four weeks after the receipt of the remarks of the 
Local Authority and the Police , or within six weeks, 
if the Licensing Authority has to get any further 
report. In case the licensing authority fails to pass 
orders within the time limit laid above , the certificate 
shall be deemed as granted . 

20A . The licensing authority shall have powers to 
suspend the licence if the terms and conditions of the 
licence are not complied with by the licensee or for 
other sufficient reasons . Any person aggrieved by 
such order shall have a right to appeal to State Go 
vernment within a period of 15 days of the said 
order and the decision of the Government shall be 
final. 


( ii ) A block plan in triplicate on a separate sheet 
showing the position of such premises in relation to 
any adjacent premises and to the public thoroughfare 
upon which the site of such premises abuts drawn 
to a scale of not less than one centimetre to a meter . 

The cardinal points shall be marked on such dra 
wings . All drawings shall be colcured to distinguish 
the materials employed in the construction of buil 
dings and erections. 

The width of all staircases and the number of 
stages in each , the width of the corridors , gangeways 
and doorways together with the height of any gal 
leries or tiers in such premises and in any of the 
erections or buildings in connections therewith as are 
more than one tier in height shall be indicated on 
such drawings as well as the floor and roof ventila 
tion and the details of any intended gas or electric 
installation . The thickness of the walls and scantlings 
of various materials used shall be clearly shown on 
such drawing by figured dimensions . 

Every application for the renewal of licence shall 
be made one month before the expiry of the existing 
licence and a copy of every such application shall be 
sent simultaneously to the Electrical Inspector 
direct . 


21. Any applicant aggrieved by the Orders of Li 
censing Authority refusing to grant a no-objection 
Certificate may appeal to the Government of Goa , 
Daman and Diu , Panjim within 30 days of receipt 
of the order . 


22. No licence shall be granted under the Act in 
respect of any building unless : 

(i) Such building has a road frontage on the 
Public thoroughfare upon which the site of such 
building abuts. 

( ii ) Suitable booking windows for the various 
classes are provided within the building in such a 
position that there is room for queues of would be 
purchasers of tickets to form up within the premises 
without causing any obstruction to traffic on the 
public Road . 

Provided that this sub -rule shall apply only to 
Cinema premises which are newly built or re- cons 
tructed after the 1st June 1965 . 

Provided further that in the case of cinema pre 
mises existing on the said date , where space is avai 
lable inside the premises to construct new booking 
offices in accordance with this clause , the Licensing 
Authority may require the owner of the Premises to 
comply with the provisions of this clause . 

(iii) There are suitable means of entrance and 
exit for the public in such frontage ; and 

( iv ) In addition there are reserved for use in case 
of emergency entrances and Exits opening on to the 
said public thoroughfares or to some other suitable 
thoroughfare and such passages are not less than 
2.metres in width . 


24. ( 1 ) The licensing authority shall forward 
the application plans and drawings and other con 
nected papers to the Electrical Inspector . The Elec 
trical Inspector or any Officer deputed by him shall 
examine them , inspect the enclosure , the cinemato 
graph apparatus and plant and the Electrical Ins 
tallation and if he is satisfied that a licence may be 
issued he shall forward to the Licensing Authority 
a Certificate in Form 

Cannexed to these rules 
(hereinafter referred to as the Electrical Inspector s 
Certificate ) as to the suitability of the enclosure, the 
Cinematograph and the Electrical Installation fulfil 
the requirements of these Rules . 

( 2 ) The Electrical Inspector s Certificate may for 
sufficient reason reduce the period of validity of the 
certificate to six months or 3 months. 

Provided that in the case of touring Cinemato 
graph shows defined in sub - clause ( i ) of clause ( b ) 
of Rule 89, the certificate issued by the Electrical 
Inspector shall cease to be valid when the cinemato 
graph apparatus and plant are shifted to a different 
theatre or hall. 


23. Every application to the Licensing Authority 
for a licence under Section 12 of the Act . shall be in 
writing and signed by the applicant and shall be 
accompanied by : 

(i ) Complete Plans , elevations and sections in 
triplicate of the premises and of all erections or buil 
dings thereon drawn correctly to a scale of one deci 
metre to a metre and showing the position of the 
electrical machinery and Cinematograph Apparatus 
and the different Distribution Boards , the light, fan 
and other fittings and 


25. ( a ) On receipt of such certificate if the Licen 
sing Authority is satisfied that the other require 
ments of those rules are fulfilled , it shall issue to 
the applicant a licence in Form A annexed to these 
rules , provided that the Licensing Authority may in 
the case of temporary building refuse a licence if it 
is of opinion that any portion of such building is 
dangerously near to any other building. 

Provided further that the Licensing Authority 
shall in the case of a permanent building obtain a 
certificate from the Executive Engineer, as to the 
structural soundness of the building and may refuse 
a licence , if , after obtaining such certificate it is of 
opinion that the building is not structural sound . 
A copy of the plans and drawings referred to in Rule 
23 shall be attached to and delivered to the applicant 
along with the licence . A Duplicate of the Electrical 
Inspector s certificate may be granted by the Elec 
trical Inspector on payment of a fee of Re. 1 / - pro 
vided that the application is submitted through the 
Licensing Authority , 


198 


SERIES I No. 18 


renewed or on his receiving an order refusing to 
renew the licence . 

( iii ) No fee shall be levied for the grant of such 
temporary permits. 

( iv ) The temporary permit shall , during the 
period of its validity be deemed to be a licence for 
the purpose of these Rules . 


Explanation : --- For the purpose of issuing a cer 
tificate under this rule the Executive Engineer , or 
any other competent Engineer authorised by him 
shall have power to make an inspection of the buil 
ding including the right to probe any portion of the 
structure and to call upon the applicant for the Li 
cence to furnish him with detailed particulars re 
garding the quality , quantity , and proportion of the 
materials used in the construction of the building . 

(b ) The applicant if aggrieved by an order of the 
Executive Engineer refusing to grant certificate of 
structural soundness shall have the right to refer the 
matter to the Director of P , W. D. or an Engineer 
specified by the Government in this behalf , within 
30 days of the communication of the order whose 
technical opinion thereon shall be final. 


28. No subsequent additions or alterations shall 
be made to the premises in respect of which a licence 
has been granted or any part thereof, without the 
sanction of the Licensing Authority being obtained 
therefor and the plans and drawings relating to such 
additions or alterations being approved by him . 


29. The Licensee shall give notice in writing to the 
Licensing Authority of his intention to add to or 
alter the Licensed premises or any portion thereof 
and such notice shall describe clearly the intended 
additions or alterations and be accompanied by com 
plete plans, elevations and sections and block plan 
and specifications of the work proposed to be exe 
cuted , drawn up in the manner required by rule 23 . 

The Licensing Authority shall , before according 
sanction to the proposed addition or alteration , 
follow as far as may be , the procedure laid in 
Rule 30 . 


26. For every licence when granted or renewed, 
a fee shall be charged according to the scale laid 
down below : 

For an annual licence Rupees fifty for an area 
of 100 sq . metres or less with an additional fee of 
Rs. 25 / - for every 50 sq . metres or fraction thereof 
in excess of 100 sq . metres . 

For a temporary licence for a period not exceeding 
three months for a building thatched or constructed 
of wood or mats or other inflammable materials or 
for a tent --- Rupees fifty for a period of 3 months 
or for a portion thereof for an area of every 50 
sq . metres or fraction thereof in excess of 100 sq . 
metres . 

For a temporary licence for a period not exceeding 
three months for a building not tatched nor cons 
tructed of inflammable materials Rs . Five for 
a month or for a portion thereof for an area of 100 
sq .metres or less with an additional fee of Rs 2-50 ps . 
for month or for a portion thereof for every 50 sq. 
metres or fraction thereof in excess of 100 sq . metres. 

Annual licence shall be granted only in respect of 
permanent buliding . A temporary licence other than 
one for a travelling Cinematograph shall be granted 
only for a period not exceeding 3 months in the ag 
gregate within any continuous period of twelve 
months. 


30. No addition to or alteration of any part of the 
Electric Installation or of the apparatus for produc 
tion of any other illuminant in use in the lantern 
shall be made without the sanction of the Licensing 
Authority being obtained thereof . The Licensee shall 
notify in writing his intention to make such addi 
tion or alteration to the Licensing Authority who 
shall communicate the notice to the Electrical Ins 
pector. The Licensing Authority shall not accord his 
sanction for the addition or alteration , unless the 
Electrical Inspector certifies that the alteration or 
addition fulfils the requirements of these Rules. 


31. The Licence and the plan , and description at 
tached thereto shall be produced on demand by any 
police officer not below the rank of the Sub - Inspector 
or the Licensing Authority or any person authorised 
by him or by the Electrical Inspector , or any person 
authorised by either of them . 


Explanation : — For the purposes of this rule 
where the place consists partly of a structure and 
partly of a more enroofed enclosure , the fee shall 
be calculated on the area of structure alone. 

Duplicate of a licence may be granted on payment 
of a fee of Rs. 5 ) . 


32. The Licensee, his servants and agents shall 
comply with all orders issued by the Electrical Ins 
pector , the Licensing Authority or Police Officers 
acting on their behalf from time to time or as occa 
sions arise , for the safety or convenience of the 
public or for the preservation of law and order or 
of the public peace . The Licensing Authority may 
if special circumstances so require , impose safe 
guards in addition to those laid down in these Rules . 


33. Any Police officer not below the rank of Sub 
-inspector may enter any place licensed under the 
Act for the purpose of seeing that the provisions of 
these Rules are being adhered to . 


27. (i) If on an application for the renewal of a 
Licence presented under Rule 87 the Licensing Au 
thority does not for any reason before the date of 
expiry of the licence either renew the licence or 
refuse the same, it shall grant a temporary permit in 
Form D annexed to these rules with suitable modi 
fications provided that the Electrical Inspector s 
certificate continue to remain valid . 

( ii ) Such temporary permit shall be subject to 
the conditions of the Licence sought to be renewed , 
and shall be valid for a period of one month from 
the date of grant thereof and may be renewed by 
the Licensing Authority for further periods of one 
month at a time. 

Provided that the temporary permit shall cease to 
be valid and shall be surrendered to the Licensing 
Authority on the applicant receiving the licence duly 


PART HIT 


Electrical installation 


34. Sanction of the Electrical Inspector to Govern 
ment to be obtained for all Electrical Work : Before 
the installations of any Electric light or any elec 
trical apparatus and before any alterations or addi 
tions to the Electric Installation are commenced , the 


29TH JULY , 1965 


199 


( 2 ) Where fluorescent lights have been provided , 
a Thyralux or equivalent Typotion shall be used for 
the purposes of dimming these fluorescent lights . 


sanction of the Eectrical Inspector to Government 
shall be obtained through the Licensing Authority 
and for this purpose plans showing the approximate 
position of lights , fans etc. and specificaticns giving 
full particulars of the proposed wcrk shall be forward 
ed to the Electrical Inspector to Government to whom 
complete drawings shall also be sent on completion 
of the work . After completion , the work shall be 
passed by the Electrical Inspector . 


35. High Pressure : --- In these Rules the term 
‘High Pressure shall apply to all Voltage above 
650 volts . 


41. A. C. 3 phase , 4 wire system or D. C. 3 wire 
system : Where supply is available on 3 phase 
A. C. system the circuit, A , B , & C. shall be supplied 
from 3 different phases but where the supply is given 
on D. C. 3 wire system , the circuits B & C shall be 
supplied from two difierent sides and all lights fans 
and other electrical apparatus on the stage shall be 
connected to one side only in common with either B 
be direct with a link on the Main Board for testing 
or C. The Neutral of the 3 phase - 4 wire system should 
be direct with a link on the Main Board for tending 
punposes . 


36. Inspection and Test : Where an electric light, 
fan or other apparatus is installed in a cinema, it 
shall be on condition that the Electrical Inspector 
shall certify in writing to the Licensing Authority 
once in every twelve months that the system is in 
proper working order . Inspection and test may also 
be made by any Officer appointed by the Electrical 
Inspector from time to time. 


42, a ) Sources of supply : - The supply for the 
three Main Circuits may be taken from independent 
sources of supply but in such cases special precaution 
must be taken to present accidental connection of 
different circuits . 

b ) Change over switches may be used which have 
been previously approved by the Electrical Inspector . 


A 


37. Main Circuits : All cinemas when lighted by 
electric light shall have preferably three separate 
and distinct main circuit and these circuits shall be : 

( A ) for the stage 

( B ) and ( C ) shall be so arranged that the lights 
in the Auditorium , Corridor , Exits , etc. shall be as 
far as possible equally distributed on the two cir 
cuits . The two Circuits ( B ) and ( C ) shall not be 
combined in one fitting nor shall the wires or leads 
for one circuit be placed in the same casing or tube 
as those of the other circuits . 


43. Auxiliary supply for Exit signs : — ( 1 ) All 
Exit signs shall be fitted with an auxiliary bulb 
capable of properly, illuminating the signs and these 
bulbs shall be fed from Accumulators which shall be 
in a fully charged condition before the first admission 
of the public on any day . 

( 2 ) All lights in the staircases, corridors, passages , 
and Exit notices shall be kept alight during the whole 
time the public are in the Cinema. 


44. Torches : - At least six Electric torches of 
pattern approved by the Electrical Inspector shall 
be kept on the premises in proper working order 
throughout the year and then shall be distributed 
over the building so as to be acessible to doorkeepers 
etc. 


38. Sub -Circuits : -- ( 1 ) The Main Circuits ( A ) , 
( B ) & ( C ) shall be subdivided as may be necessary 
and no sub - circuit shall be allowed to carry more than 
5 amps . in the case of Auditorium Corridors etc , or 
20 amps . or 230 volts in the case of the stage. Each 
sub - circuits shall start from a Distributing Board . 

( 2 ) The Main leads etc. for circuit A shall where 
possible be kept entirely on the stage side of the 
proscerium wall and those for B & C entirely on 
the auditorium side of that wall . 

( 3 ) The Lights inside and outside the premises 
shall be on separate circuits . Circuits for fans , Power 
and Cooling purposes shall be kept distinct and se 
parate from lighting circuits . 


45. Unlicensed Premises :—No unlicensed premises 
or parts of the premises not included in the licence 
shall be supplied with electric current from the Mines 
or apparatus used for the licensed premises . 


46. Gas and Water Pipes : -- Gas and Water Pipes 
shall never form part of any electrical circuit . 


47. Dressing Rooms: When Cinema premises are 
used for a dramatic performance dressing rooms and 
other parts of the premises are used by the staff shall 
be lighted to the satisfaction of the Electrical Ins 
pector . 


39. Control of Auditorium lights from the Stage: 

- If it is desired to control a portion of the lights 
in the Auditorium from the stage Switch Board Cir 
cuit ( A ) , this will be permitted if a sufficient number 
of lights for safety purposes be maintained on cir 
cuits B & C for each portion of the Auditorium 
entirely independent of the stage. The number and 
position of such lights shall be subject to the approval 
of the Electrical Inspector . 


40. Control of Auditorium lights from enclosure : 

( 1 ) In the case of Cinemas , it may be permitted to 
control a portion of the lights in the Auditorium by 
switches placed in the enclosure , provided that the 
switches are of totally closed metal clad type and 
associated with fuses of not more than 15amps . çapa 
city at a pressure not exceeding 230 volts . The number 
and position of such switches shall be subject to the 
approval of the Electrical Inspector . 


48. Conductors :- ( 1 ) All conductors used within 
the Building shall be of tinned copper having a con 
ductivity equal to not less than 90 % of that of Pure 
Copper or its equivalent in aluminium and shall be 
so proportioned that the current density in any con 
ductor shall not exceed 1000 amps . for 6.5 sq . cm . 

( 2 ) Where a number of lights, as in the footlights , 
bottom etc. are supplied under control of the switch 
and protected by a single or double pole cut- out as 
the case may be the conductors shall be maintained 
throughout of such sections that will be effectively 
protected by the cut-outs against heating. 


49. Insulation : ( 1 ) All conductors shall be pro 
perly insulated and the insulation resistance shall 


200 


SERIES I No. 18 


Explanation : - « By Bush » is meant packing in 
serted in the holes through which the pipes and cables 
pass in order to render such holes reasonably smoke 
-proof. 


56. The openings in front of the enclosure shall not 
be larger than is necessary for effective projection 
and observation . No such opening shall exceed 8 " x 8 " 
ordinarily . 


57. Each opening shall be provided with a plate 
glass screen of not less than 3 / 16th . of an inch in 
thickness fixed in position with a smoke tight joint . 


not be less in megohms than 100 divided by the 
number of outlets ( points and switches ) from the 
fixed wiring 

Alternatively , the insulation resistance of a system 
of distribution shall be such that the greatest leakage 
from any conductor to earth when all branches are 
witched on shall not exceed 1 / 5000th . part cf the 
total current required the test being made at appro 
ximately double the usual working pressure provided 
that this rule shall not be held to justify a lower 
insulation resistance than 10,000 phms. (2 ) If it is 
desired to use any other conductors or insulators 
than as specified in these regulations , special per 
mission shall be obtained from the Electrical Ins 
pector and no material shall be used which is not 
water - proof or which is not protected by water 
proof covering or which will soften at a tempara 
ture below 170 degrees F. 

50. Conductors etc. Special Precautions : - No 
Metal Work in connection with the circuits shall be 
exposed or so fixed or constructed as to be liable to 
cause a short circuit . In all cases conductors convey 
ing currents at high pressure inside buildings shall 
be specially insulated . They shall be enclosed in screw 
jointed and earthed Iron or steel tubing . Armoured 
cable may be used for the supply Company s Service . 


58. No unauthorised person shall either be allowed 
to enter or permitted to stay within the enclosure . 


59. No inflammable material shall unnecessarily 
be taken into or allowed to remain inside the enclo 
sure . 


60. Lanterns shall be placed on firm supports cons 
tructed of fire resisting material and shall be pro 
vided each with a metal shutter which can be readily 
inserted between the source of light and film gate . 

Where the Electric pressure in the enclosure 
exceeds 100 Volts all metal supports of the lantern 
shall be connected to earth with two separate and 
distinct connections with earth . 


51. Metallic tubing for Mechanical Protection 
Where iron pipe or tube is used as a mechanical pro 
tection it shall be brushed where necessary and pro 
perly brushed , inspection boxes shall be used . All 
metallic tubing shall be efficiently earthed and shall 
be provided with screw joints or other means of ensu 
ring a good and permanent electrical connection 
which must be continuous with boxes and other fit 
tings . 


61. Cinematograph Projectors shall be fitted with 
two metal film boxes of substantial construction to 
and from which the films shall be caused to travel. 
The film boxes shall be made to close in such a man 
ner and shall be filled with a film slot so constructed 
as to prevent the passage of flame to the interior of 
the box . 


52. Stage Lighting : -- When Cinema premises are 
used for a dramatic performance special care shall 
be taken that all works in connection with the lighting 
of the stage are carried out in as substantial manner 
as possible preferably in heavy gauge screwed me 
tallic conduits . 


62. Films should be wound upon spools in such a . 
manner that the sound film shall not at any time 
reach or project beyond the edges of the flangese of 
the spool. The re -winding of films shall not be car 
ried out in the enclosure while an exhibition is in 
progress . 


52 ( A ) . A Plan (in single line) of the wiring , 
shall always be kept in a prominent place in the office 
of the Manager . The Plan should conform , as far as 
may be to the model wiring Diagram Appended to 
these Rules . 

PART TV 


- 


Enclosures 


53. The Cinematograph shall be placed in an enclo 
sure of substantial construction , made of and lined 
internally with fire -resisting material and of dimen 
sions sufficient to allow the Operator to work freely . 


63. All films when not in use shall be kept in sepa- 
rate closed Metal Boxes . The Metal Boxes shall be 
of substantial construction , the plate used being not 
less than 85 mm in thickness . Each box shall have a . 
hinged cover secured by hasp and staple . A rack shall 
be provided for storing the closed Metal Boxes 
without piling. Films shall not be stored in any part. 
of the building which is at a lower level than any 
other part thereof used for residential purposes . 

64. Cables for Cinematograph lamps shall be 
taken as separate circuits from the supply side of 
the Main fuses of the General supply . 

65. An efficient and suitable capacities double 
pole switch and fuse shall be fitted within the enclo 
sure in the Cinematograph lamp circuit. 


54. The enclosure shall be outside the Auditorium 
and where a re -winding room adjoints the enclosure, 
each shall have an independent exit . 

55. The Door of the enclosure and of any re -win 
ding room and all openings , bushes and joints shall 
be so constructed and maintained as to prevent as 
far as possible the escape of. any smoke into the 
Auditorium Ventilators shall be provided for the 
enclosure and for any re -winding room but the Ven 
tilation ducts shall not communicate directly to the 
Auditorium . The area of the Ventilating ducts of the 
enclosure shall be less than one per cent of its floor 


66. Within the enclosure the insulating material 
off all electric cables , including those leading to illu 
minating lamps , shall be covered with fire- resisting 
material. Where the electric pressure exceeds 100 
Volts , all cables shall be enclosed in screwed metal 
conduits connected to the earth . Lead covered cables 
shall not be used unless enclosed in such conduits . 


area . 


67. All Resistances, with the exception of a resis 
tance for regulating purposes shall be placed outside 


29TH JULY , 1965 


201 


the enclosure and if reasonably practicable , outside 
the Auditorium . If placed inside the Auditorium such 
resistances , shall be protected by an earthed wire 
guard or other efficient means of preventing 
accidental contact . 


68. ( 1 ) The enclosure shall be in charge of an 
operator holding a Licence in Form E granted under 
and in accordance with the Regulations in Anne 
xure I by the Electrical Inspector on the strenght 
of the result of the Examination conducted by him 
as per Annexure II or on the basis of possessing 
equivalent qualifications or a Licence issued by any 
Government in India or in exceptional cases having 
more than 15 years experience as an Operator in any 
of the recognised Permanent Cinemas or a licence 
granted under Rules in force immediately prior to 
the coming into force of these rules . The Operator 
shall be present during the whole period of operation 
of the Machine. 

( 2 ) The Operator shall satisfy himself before the 
commencement of each performance that all cables , 
leads , connection and resistances as also the fire ex 
tinguishing appliances in the enclosure are in good 
working order . 

(3 ) The Licensee shall report to the Electrical 
Inspector the name and Licence No. of the Operator 
together with his consent in writing and shall also 
report any change in the person from time to time, 


4 ) Where a portable fire Extinguisher of the 
chemical combination pressure type is older than 
three yers or has not been tested previously , it shall 
be tested by Hydraulic pressure by the Electrical Ins 
pector or by an Engineering Firm or Mill authorised 
in this behalf by the Licensing Authority , to show 
that it can withstand for one minute a pressure of 
350 lbs. per square inch and a certificate of such test 
shall be submitted to the Licensing Authority . Similar 
tests shall be repeated annually thereafter . 

5 ) In addition to the fire fighting equipment spe 
cified in sub - rule ( 1) . the following equipment shall 
be provided and maintained : 

At least four Stirrup Pumps and 8 buckets filled 
with water if there is no gallery or first floor in the 
premises and 

At least 6 stirrup Pumps and 12 buckets filled with 
water if there is a gallery or first floor in the pre 
mises in which case , at least 2 stirrup Pumps and 
4 buckets filled with water shall be kept in the gallery 
or first floor. 

Attendants and staff shall be trained in the use 
of all fire fighting equipment maintained in the 
premises . 
6 ) The Licensee shall : — 
( i) Once in every three months empty the con 

tainer of each portable fire Extinguisher 
provided in the licensed premises, clean its 
nozzles and working parts , stir the liquids 
and top it up and immediately record the 
date of having done so on a slip of Paper 
and paste the same on the outside of such 

Container , and 
( ii ) Once in every year discharge each portable 

fire Extinguisher provided in the Licensed 
Premises and recharge it and immediately 
record the date of such re -charge in durable 
paint on the external surface of the con 
tainer of the Portable fire extinguisher , 


PART V 


Building 
69. All such premises situated in a place where 
telephone exchange and fire Brigade Service exist 
shall be in communication with the nearest Fire 
Brigade Service by telephone which shall be fitted 
in such place and manner as the Licensing Authority 
may direct. The Installation and maintainance of the 
complete telephone connection shall be carried out 
at the cost of the licensee . 


In addition to the requirements of sub -rule (5 ) 
there shall be provided such other facilities for 
fighting fire as may be required by the Licensing 
Authority . 

7 ) Such number of persons as may be necessary 
shall be specially appointed to be in charge of the 
fire -extinguishing appliances in the auditorium 
during every performance . 


- 


per 100 


- 


70. ( 1 ) The following fire Extinguishing applian 
ces shall be provided : 

In the enclosure : - A bucket of water , a blanket , 
a bucket of dry sand and a portable fire extinguisher 
of a pattern approved by the Licensing Authority . 

In the Auditorium : Four Portable Fire extin 
guishers of a pattern approved by the Licensing Au 
thority and a supply of not less than a 5 gallons of 
water 

sq . ft. of floor area stored as follows :-- 
33 % of the supply or 60 gallons , whichever is 
greater stored in -buckets of two or three gallons ca 
pacity each inside the Auditorium : and the balance 
stored in tanks or cisterns or buckets of any capacity 
so arranged as to be easily accessible, the arrange 
ments in this regard having been approved by the 
Licensing Authority . 

2 ) These appliances shall be so disposed as to be 
readily available for use . The buckets shall have 
round bottoms and handles . 

They shall be painted red with the word « Fire » 
painted on them in large white letters in English and 
the local language. 

3 ) The Portable fire Extinguishers shall be of the 
two gallon size, they shall be installed at an adequate 
height from the ground . A record regarding the main 
tenance of Portable extinguisher shall be kept. Te 
trachloride Extinguishers shall not be permitted in 
the enclosure. 


71. The floor , roof, ceiling private boxes , balconies, 
galleries, tiers , partitions and every room , lobby, 
corridor and passage intended for the use of the 
public shall be constructed of fire resisting -mate 
rials : 

Provided that the following materials may be used 
for the ceilling namely : - 

Acoustic Celotex 
Asbestos Spray 
Canec 
Celotex 
Heraklith 
Insulite Building Board ( Texmitox ) 
Insulite Hard Board . 
‘Lyusne Woxna Insulation Board . 
Insulwood . 
Treetax 
VPSON Insulating Board and 
Acosto Sound Insulation Board . 


........ 


202 


SERIES I No. 18 


72. The Premises shall be enclosed with proper 
external or party walls of brick or stone. This rule 
shall not apply to building in respect of which tem 
porary licences are granted . 


73. Where the first tier or balcony extends over 
the pit or stalls , the height between the floor of the 
pit or stall and such tier or balcony shall not in any 
part , be less than 10 feet , and the height between 
the floor of the highest part of the gallery and the 
lowest part of the ceiling over the same shall not in 
any part less than 12 ft . The height between any tier 
and the tier or ceiling above it shall, in no case , be 
less than 8 feet . 


2 ) Every staircase forming an exit from an upper 
gallery or tier of the auditorium shall be enclosed on 
both sides with walls of brick or fire - resisting mate 
rials in the storeys through which it passes and no 
openings shall be made into Auditorium except the 
one required for exit from the gallery or tier which 
it served . 

Provided that the staircases leading to the first or 
lower gallery or tier may be left open on one side 
in which case the open side shall be provided with 
extra stout handrails and balusters , but in no case 
shall staircases be left open on both sides . 


3 ) All enclosed staircases shall have on both sides 
strong handrails firmly secured to the wall by 
strong metal brackets about 3 inches clear therefrom 
and about 3 feet above the stairs but such handrails 
shall not run on level platforms and landings where 
the length of such platform or landing exceeds the 
width of the stairs . 


74. The Licensee shall provide suitable means of 
drainage to the Building and also sanitary conveni 
ences of such description and design as may be pres 
cribed on the recommendation of the Executive En 
gineer who has to issue the structural soundness cer 
tificate of the building, for the exclusive use of each 
sex according to the scale indicated below and shall 
cause the same to be maintained in good order and 
sanitary condition :- . 
Scale of sanitary accommodation to be provided : 
Men 
Urinals One stall (seat ) for every 150 per 

sons . 
Latrines One stall ( seat ) for every 200 per 

sons . 


4 ). Where the flight of steps returns upon itself 
the newel wall shall be chased so as to allow the 
handrails to turn without projecting over the landing. 

5 ) The treads and risers of steps on each flight 
shall be of uniform width and height. 

6 ) Each flight of steps shall be properly supported 
and enclosed to the satisfaction of the Licensing 
Authority . 

7 ) There shall be at least two staircases each not 
less than 4 ft. wide to provide access to any gallery 
or upper floor , 

8 ) Stairs turning at an angle shall have a proper 
landing without winders being introduced at the turn . 

9 ) There shall be no recesses or projections in the 
walls of such staircases within 6 ft . of the floor and 
any fitting for lighting shall be at least 6 feet 8 in 
ches above the steps or landing . 


Women 

Same scale as for men . 


75. No corridor leading to any stair case communi 
cating with any exit shall be less than 5 feet in width 
in any part thereof . 


76. Where possible , gradients or inclined planes 
shall be used instead of steps , but no gradient or 
inclined planes shall be steeper than 1 in 10 . 


77. Where cloak -rooms are provided they shall be 
so situated that the use of them shall not obstruct the 
free use of any exit . 


80. 1) Every building shall be provided with an 
adequate number of clearly indicated entrances and 
exits so placed and maintained as readily to afford 
the audience ample means of safe movement , and 
with a passage 3 ft. in width for every ten rows of 
seating accommodation . By adequate is meant 5 
linear feet of exit way for 500 square feet of sitting 


space inside . 


78. ( 1 ) All outside doors for the use of the Public 
shall be made to open outwards . 

( 2 ) The size of the Doors shall not be less than 
7 feet by 5 feet, the width being measured between 
the leaves of the door in the open positions . 

( 3 ) When doors open on to any gangway , passage , 
stairway or landing such doors shall open in the 
direction the public move to the exit. No door shall 
open out directly on to a flight of steps . There shall 
be a landing of at least five flush with the floor. 


2 ) The Words No Exit shall be painted over all 
exit doors or openings which are in sight of the au 
dience but which cannot be used as exits . 

The word Exit shall be painted over all exit doors . 
The word No Exit and Exit shall be painted in 
letters of 6 inches high and 1 inch thick . 

3 ) A notice shall be clearly painted on the exit 
doors indicating the method of opening . 

4 ) Each Exit and No Exit notice shall be illu 
minated by a light such lights shall be kept burning 
the whole time the public are on the premises . It 
should also be capable of being illuminated by other 
source of supply viz from a storage Battery in case 
of failure of supply to the premises. 


Note : 


Door includes exit or entrance way . 


79. 1 ) All staircases shall be constructed entirely 
of stone, cement or concrete with fire - resisting roof 
or ceiling and shall have solid square (as distingui 
shed from spandrel) steps and landing of approved 
stone or such other fire - resisting material and cons 
truction as may be approved by the Licensing Autho 
rity with treads not less than 11 inches wide and 
with risers not more than 6 inches high ( each lapp 
ing at least 1 inch over the back edge of the step 
below it ) in flights of not more than 15 or less than 
3 steps . 


81. The following provisions shall be observed in 
providing seating accommodation : 

1 ) The gangways shall not be less than 4 feet in 
width and shall be so arranged that no seat shall be 
more than 10 seats from a gangway . 


www.................. 


29TH JULY , 1965 


203 


nied by a treasury receipt for the payinent of the 
renewal fee prescribed under these rule.:. 


PART VH 


2 ) The angle of elevation subtended at the eye 
of any person seated in the row nearest to the screen 
by the length of the vertical line dropped from the 
centre of the top edge of the picture to the horizontal 
plane passing through the observer s eye shall not 
exceed 35 degrees , the height of the eye of the person 
so seated bing 3 feet 6 inches above the floor level. 
A strong barrier or other efficient partition shall be 
provided to enforce this provision . 

3 ) The angle between the vertical plane containing 
the upper edge of the picture and the vertical plane 
containing the observer s eye and the remote and of 
the upper edge of the picture shall not be less than 
25 degrees . A strong barrier or other efficient par 
tition shall be provided to enforce this provision . 


Travelling Cinemas 
87. The Rules in this part and the following 
rules shall apply to travelling Cinemas : 

88. In this Part 

a ) « Building » shall include any booth , tent or any 
similar structure . 

b ) « Travelling Cinema» shall have the same mea 
ning as defined in Rule 8 . 


89. A person who intends to build a travelling 
cinema building shall follow the procedure in Rule 19 
of Part II . 


82. Whenever required by the Licensing Authority 
sufficient and approved artificialmeans of ventilation 
shall be provided . Guards shall be provided for cei 
ling fans with less than 8 feet clearance , the height 
between the guard and the floor shall not be less 
than 6 feet 8 inches : 


90. The Licensing Authority may refuse a licence 
if the buliding is constructed in whole or in part of 
a material which in its opinion is so inflammable as 
to be a public danger or is dangerously near any 
other building. 


Provided that at the time of the grant of the an 
nual licence for the first time, the licensing authority 
may require that the auditorium shall be provided 
with exhaust fans at the rate of one exhaust fan for 
a floor area 500 square feet or fraction thereof. 


91. In every pandal constructed of inflammable 
materials there shall be on each side an aperture at 
least 7 feet high and 18 feet wide . This aperture may 
be closed by tatties fixed on split bamboo frame and 
fastened by twine on the inside. 


92. Doors and apertures not ordinarily in use may 
be made of or covered or closed by mat , screen or 
similar material which can be removed by a slight 
pressure from inside the building. 


93. No external fencing shall be allowed within 
a distance of 10 feet from the building . 


83. 1 ) ( a ) The number of persons admitted into 
any part of Auditorium , shall not exceed the number 
prescribed in the licence for that part of the Audito 
rium . The number prescribed for each part shall be 
clearly indicated in such part by means of a board 
or otherwise . 

( b ) The number prescribed under Clause ( a ) in 
respect of any part of the Auditorium shall not ex 
ceed the following limit, namely : 

The number arrived at by calculating at the rate 
of 20 persons per 100 square feet of floor area in 
respect of such portions as are provided with chairs 
having backs and arms, and at the rate of 25 persons 
per 100 square feet of floor area in respect of other 
portions , after excluding the area of the entrances, 
the passages and gangways , the stage, the staircases , 
and all places to which the public are not admitted . 

2 ) No Chair or other obstruction shall be placed 
in any passage , gangway or staircase . 


94. On receipt of the application made under 
Rule 89 , the Licensing Authority shall grant a « No 
objection » certificate in Form D , or may refuse to 
grant the same. He shall also issue an order appro 
ving or not approving the plan of the building to be 
constructed in the approved site within three weeks 
after the date of receipt of the application from the 
applicant. In case of the Licensing Authority not 
deciding the approval or rejection of the application 
within the period specified , the application will be 
deemed to have been approved by the Licensing Au 
thority . 


84. There shall be provided at least one ceilir 
fan for every 50 persons in the Auditorium . 

85. 1 ) Chairs shall be battened together in com 
plete lengths. 

2 ) In all cases there shall be an intervening space 
of at least 18 inches between the back of one seat 
and the front of the seat immediately behind mea 
sured between perpendiculars . 


95. On completion of the building according to the 
approved plan , the applicant shall submit his appli 
cation for licence to the Licensing Authority . The 
application shall be accompanied by : 

i ) a certificate from the Electrical Inspector . 

ii ) a treasury receipt for the payment of fees for 
licence at the prescribed rates . 


PART V 


Renewals 


Note : The Elecrtical Inspector shall issue the 
Electrical Certificate or refuse its issue within a 
period not exceeding one month from the date of 
receipt of the application from the applicant. 


86. Every application for the renewal of the Li 
cence shall be made one month before the expiry of 
the existing Licence . 

Such application shall be accompanied by : — 

a ) a treasury receipt for the payment of fees at 
the prescribed rates. 

b ) a copy of such application shall be sent simul 
taneously to the Electrical Inspector direct accompa 


96. On receipt of the application for a licence 
together with the Electrical Certificate , the Licen 
sing Authority shall issue to the applicant a licence 
in Form A or refuse to issue such licence within a 
period not exceeding one month from the date of 
its receipt. 


................................ 


204 


SERIES I No. 18 


97. No building constructed of inflammable ma 
terials shall be licensed to exhibit shows in any place 
for a period exceeding six months at a time ana may 
be renewed after the expiry of such period if no 
other applicant comes forward for the said site . 


98. Sufficient provisions shall be made for pre 
venting and extinguishing fires which may occur. 
For this purpose two fire extinguishers of 2 gallons 
capacity of Acid Type shall be provided in the Audi 
torium and one in the enclosure . Twelve Buckets of 
clean sand or water shall be provided on the stage, 
near the screen , 


Appeals 
106. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the 
Licensing Authority rerusing to grant or to renew a 
Licence inay within one month from the date of com 
munication of the Order of such retusal, appeal to 
the Government of Goa , Daman and Diu . 

By order and in the name of the Administrator 

ci Goa , Daman and Diu . 
B. K. Chougule , Secretary , Industries and Labour 
Department . 

Panjim , 12th July , 1965 . 


PART VTIL 


Cinema exhibitions in educational or industrial 

establishments and in the open air 


ANNEXURE I 


99. The Rules in this part and Rule 12 in Part I , 
shall apply to the Cinematograph exhibitions in 

a ) educational institutions. 
b ) Industrial Establishments , and 
c ) open air Cinemas. 


100. The Electrical equipment shall be initially 
inspected by the Electrical Inspector or an ofiicer 
deputed by him who shall send a report to the Licen 
sing Authority within a period not exceeding one 
month from the date of receipt of application . The 
fees for inspection shall be the same as that of Tra 
velling Cinemas. But 35 m.m. Projector installations, 
which show feature films and admit the general 
public , shall be inspected once in every year and 
their electrical certificates renewed . 


Regulations for the issue of Cinema operator s licences 
1. Application for the issue of Cinema Operator s Licence 
may be made to the Electrical Inspector by the candidates who 
have been declared successful in the Cinema Operators Exa 
mination or who are exempted from such examination or in 
exceptional cases by candidates who have more than 15 years 
of experience as an Operator in any of the registered Per 
manent Cinemas . 

The application shall be made with a chalian for having 
credited a sum of Rs . 5 / - towards fee into any Government 
Treasury or State Bank Of India under the Budget Head 
« Major Head XII other Taxes and Duties , Minor Head B 
Receipts from Electricity Duties . Fees under the Indian Elec 
tricity Rules 1956 and fees for the Electrical Inspection of 
Cinemas and other Receipts » . The Pass Certificate shall also 
be enclosed for reference and return . Two copies of Photo 
graphs 2 " X3 in size taken within a year of application and 
two specimen signatures of the applicant shall also be 
enclosed , 


2. The Electrical Inspector may issue the licences for periods 
not exceeding five years in form E . 


101. The Licensing Authority may grant a free 
Licence in Form " within two weeks from the 
date of receipt of the report referred to in Rule 100 . 


102. While granting licences for open air Cinemas, 
the Licensing Authority shall take into consideration 
the interest of Permanent and Touring Cinemas in 
the neighbourhood . 


3. Issue of duplicate licence : An application for a dupli 
cate Licence may be made by a Cinema Operator in case the 
Licence is lost , defaced or damaged stating the circumstances 
under which this was occasioned and made along with a 
Challan for having credited Rs. 3 / - towards fee into any Go 
vernment Treasury or State Bank of India, under the Budget 
Head « Major Head XIII other Taxes and Duties : Minor Head 
B Receipts from Electricity Duties . Fees under the Indian 
Electricity Rules 1956 and Fees for inspection of Electrical 
Installation of Cinemas and other Receipts » . The application 
shall also be accompained by two copies of photographs taken 
within a year of application and two specimen signatures of 
the applicant. 

The duplicate Licence may be issued by the Electrical Ins 
pector at his discretion after satisfying himself the bonafides 
of the case . 


PART IX 


Special provision in the case of exhibitions given in any 
place within an enclosed reel projector with films 

not greater in width than 16 m.m. 


103. 1 ) Where it is not practicable to have a fire . 
-proof enclosure a clear space of 6 ft. shall be raised 
all round the Cinematograph apparatus . 

2 ) No drapery or combustible material, other than 
thatcomposing the floor , shall be within 6 ft. of the 
apparatus . 

3 ) The following fire -extinguishing appliances 
shall be provided near the enclosure : 

i ) Two portable fire -extinguishers . 
ii) One blanket, and 
iii ) Theree buckets of water with large sponge 

in one of the latrine. 


4. Rencwal of Licence : Application for the renewal of Li 
cences shall be made three months before the expiry of the 
licence and shall be made direct to the Electrical Inspector 
as in the manner specified in the Licence . Two copies of the 
photographs taken within a year of application together with 
two specimen signatures should be enclosed . 

A Challan for having credited a sum of Re. 1./- towards 
renewal fee into any Government Treasury or State Bank 
of India , under the Budget Head mentioned in the foregoing 
Rules shall be forwarded along with the application . 

Applications received in the Office of the Electrical Inspec 
tor after the expiry of the period of Licence shall be considered 
as an application for a new Licence and a fee of Rs. 5 / - shall 
be charged . 


The Licensing Authority may , in consultation with 
the Electrical Inspector , apply to any such exhibition 
such of the Rules contained in the foregoing Parts 
and with such modification as he may deem fit. 


5. An Operator s Licence granted to any person under these 
regulations shall be liable to be withdrawn , suspended or can 
celled , if in the opinion of the Electrical Inspector, the Ope 
rator has not complied with these provisions, is found 
incompetent , adopts malpractices or has impersonated , after 
the Operator concerned has been given an opportunity to show 
cause against such action . Any person aggrieved by the order 
of the Electrical Inspector shall have a right for appeal to 
the State Government within a period of one month and the 
decision of the State Government shall be final. 


104. The fee for Inspection under this Part shall be 
Rs. 30 / - annually . 


-...- A . 


29TH JULY , 1965 


205 


ANNEXURE II 


Regulations for the operator s examination 
1. Qualifications of candidates : - (1 ) The minimum general 
educational qualification for candidates appearing for the 
examination shall be Vith Standard or any equivalent qualifi 
cation , Prior to the date of appearing for the examination the 
candidate should have served as an apprentice or served for 
a period of one year in a Cinema Theatre under the supervi 
sion of a Licensed Operator. 

( i ) The record of such apprenticeship or service should be 
certified and attested both by the Licensed Operator under 
whose supervision he has worked and by the Manager or 
Proprietor of the Theatre where he has worked for 
the specified period . 

2. Age : A candidate appearing for the Examination must 
be not less than 18 years of age . 

3. Syllabus : The Syllabus for the Cinema Operators Course 
will be as follows : 

(i) Working knowledge of bioscope machines or Talkies , 
Cinematograph machines and in particular knowledge or the 
type of machine which the candidate is at the time employed 
in operating 

( ii) Knowledge of Municipal bye -laws and other rules 
relating to cinematograph exhibitions and precautions against 
fire. 

(ii) Knowledge of the most speedy and effective methods 
of dealing with fire . 

(iv ) Knowledge of the elements of electric power, direct and 
alternating current, voltage , amperage, etc., or in cases of 
travelling cinemas using generators, knowledge of petrol and 
oil Engines : and knowledge of the Provisions of Indian Elec 
tricity Rules 1956 as applicable to cinematograph Installa 
tions and methods of treating persons suffering from Electric 
Shock . 

( v ) Proficiency in the handling, winding , repairing and 
effecient cleaning of films. 
Exemptions : 

1 ) Candidate holding Operator s Licence of any State other 
than this Union Territory of Goa , Daman and Diu , can be 
exempted on payment of the exemption fee of Rs. 6 / - and a 
Chaillan for having credited this amount into any Government 
Treasury or State Bank of India under the Budget Head 
mentioned previously in these Rules , should accompany with 
the application of such candidates . 


suitable for public exhibition under the Cinematograph Aat 
1952, and which , when exhibited displays the prescribed mark 
of that authority , and has not been altered or tampered with 
in any way since such mark was affixed thereto , 

( b ) The licensee shall not exhibit , or permit to be exhibited , 
in the place in respect of which this licence is given , to any 
person who is not an adult, any film which has been certified 
by an authority constituted under section 3 of the Cinema 
tograph Act 1952, as suitable for public exhibition restricted 
to adults . 

Explanation : This condition shall not be construed as 
prohibiting the exhibition of a film , in respect of which an 
« U » certificatie has been granted , to children in arms below 
the age of three . 

( c ) The licensee shall not display or cause to be displayed , 
any photograph picture or poster which depicts or represents 
or purponts to represent a scene or shot which has been exci 
sed from any film under the orders of the Central Board of 
Film Censors or the Central Government. 

( d ) There shall be prominently exhibited at each public . 
entrance whenever the premises are open to the public, a : 
notice indicating in tabular form and in clear bold letters and 
figures : 

( i ) the title of each film to be shown on that day, other 
than trailers and advertisement films; 

( ii ) the approximate times of commencement of each such 
film ; 

(slil ) whether each such film has received 8..certificate from 
the Central Board of Film Censors ; and 

(iv ) whether persons bellow the age of 18 years , other than 
children below the age of 3 years , will be admitted or not. 

( e ) The nature of any certificate received in respect of a 
film from the Central Board of Fim Censors shall clearly be 
indicated by the letter in any advertisement of the film dis 
played at the premises. 

3. The licensee shall not exhibit advertisement slides rê . 
lating to sexual diseases and medicines to correct sexual din 
sorders or purporting to assist the childless in begetting 
children . 

4. The licensee shall not permit obscene or objectionable 
posters or pictorial publicity material to be displayed in the 
licensed premises . 

5. The grant of this licence is subject to any orders that 
may be passed by the State Government under section . 

6. The maximum rates of payment for admission to the 
different classes in the licensed premises shall be as indicated 
below and these rates shall not be increased during currency 
of this licence without an order in writing by the licensing 
authority permitting such increases. The order of the licensing 
authority in this regard iis liable to be cancelled or modified 
by the State Government, if they consider such a course , just 
and necessary . 

Any person who is aggrieved by the order of the licensing 
authority on an application for permission to increase the 
said maximum rates may , within thirty days from the date 
of receipt of such order , appeal to the State Government , 
who may, after such inquiry as they consider necessary , pass 
such orders thereon as they think fit. 


FORM A 


Licence for exhibition under the Goa , Daman and Diu 

Cinematograph Rules, 1965 
Name and address of licensee. 

If the licensee is not the owner of the place or building, the 
name and address of the owner thereof . 

Situation of the place for building. 
Area of the place or building in square feet . 
Whether the place or building is to be used during the day 
or during the night or both . 

Date of last inspection by the Electrical Inspector or officer 
authorised by him . 

Special conditions , if any , on which the licence is granted . 
Period for which ithe licence is to be in force . 
Fees palid . 

Maximum number of persons permitted in each part of the 
auditorium : 
In the first class 

Persons 
In the 

Persons 
In the 

Persons 
In the 

Persons 


Class of accommodation 


Maximum rate of admission 


I Class 


Total 


Persons 


Conditions of Licence . 


This licence is granted subject to the provisions of the cine. 
matograph Act 1952 and Goa , Daman and Diu Cinematograph 
Rules , 1965. It is also subject to the following conditions. The 
terms and conditions of the licence, as inserted , may be modi 
fied or added to at any time during the currency of the 
licence : 

1. This licence does not exempt the licensee or his servants 
or agents from taking out any other licence required by or 
otherwise complying with any other law or rule or bye - law 
made thereunder . 

2. ( a ) The licensee shall not exhibit or permit to be exhi 
bited any film other than a film which has been certified as 


7. The licensing authority and any subordinate duly autho 
rized by him in that behalf and any police officer deputed 
to keep order during any entertainment in the licensed pre 
mises shall, at all times , have free access to the said premises 
in order to see whether the conditions of the licence are ful 
filled . 

8. The licensee shall comply with such directions as the 
State Government may, by general or special order , give as 
to the manner in which approved films shall be exhibited in 
the course of any performance . 

9. The Hoensee shall also comply with such directions as 
the licensing authority may give in regard to the exhibition 
of slides in each performance . 

10. N6 firework shall be used as an adjunct to a cinema 
exhibition , 


www . 


---- 


Saw 


ri *** MR - WA 


206 


SERIES I No. - 18 


11. No person shall be admitted within a line 

feet 
tin front of and parallel to the screen . A strong barrier or 
other efficient partition shall be provided for enforcing this 
condition . 

12. The licensee shall not , without the permission of the 
licensing authority , assign , sublet or otherwise transfer the 
licenice or the licensed premises ; nor shall the licensee 
without permission as aforesaid allow any other person during 
the period of currency of the licence , to exhibit films in the 
licensed premises . 

13. In the case of travelling cinema shows, the address on 
the first day of each month and lof every subsequent change 
of camp shall be notified to the Electrical Inspector . 

14. The licensed premises shall not be kept open after 
on any day without obtaining special permission in writing 
from the licensing authority in respect of such day . 

15. The licensee shall ensure that no dispute arising out 
of ownership or possession of the site, building or equipment 
is likely to cause any breach of the peace at any time. 

16. This licence shall be subject to cancellation or sus 
pension for the breach of any of these conditions or of the 
special conditions specified on the reverse . 
Dated the 

Signature of the 
Seal of the 


Under rule 

of the Goa , Daman & Diu 
Cinematograph Rules , 1965 , I certify that the enclosure , the 
cinema apparatus and plant and the electrical installation 
of the cinema known as 

and more particularly 
described overleaf of which Shri 

is the managing proprietor and 

Silent ( i.e. ) 
Shri 

is the manager for 

both silent 
non talkies films only . 
and talkie films 
or person - in - charge at 

on 

in order , 
2. I also certify that the rules regarding the fire -fighting 
appliances and fire precautional measures in the licensed pre 
mises and rules have been complied with . 

3. This Certificate is valid for a period of 
from 

to 

but is liable to 
revocation within that perfod . 


Signature of Officer 


( Reverse ) 


day of 


FORM B 


... 


Details of Equipment 
Equipment Maker s name Number Capacity 
Engline 
Motor 
Generator 
Rectifier 
Projector 
Converter 
Transformer 
Amplifier 
Fire extinguishers 
1 (Name of Operator . 
Licence number 
Period of validity of licence . 

Where , however, the licensee does not employ a licen 
sed operator at the time of issue of certificate under rule 
by the Electrical Inspector , these details will be entered in 
at the time of issue of licence ) 
Note : — For renewals, a challan for Rs. 

towards 
fee for inspection under 

should be sent to reach the 

rule 
Electrical Inspector on or before the 


nule 


FORM DY 


un 


A 


(Rule 17 ) 

Application 
1. Full name of the applicant. 
2. Address of the applicant. 
village 

taluka 

district 
3. Status and previous experience of the applicant. 
4. Is the application for a permanent or touring cinema ? 

5. Place where the cinema is proposed to be located , survey 
number or numbers of the plot or plots . 
village taluka 

district 
6. Site plan drawn to a scale of not less than one fortieth 
of an inch to a foot covering an area up to 200 yards from 
the boundaries of the proposed site showing : - 

( i ) the position of the proposed premises in relation to 
• any adjacent premises and to the public thoroughfare 

upon which the site of such premises abuts ; and 
( ii) thatched sheds, if any, in the neighbourhood . 

7. Possession by the applicant of other places, if any, 
licensed under the Act : 

( 1 ) whether in the same locality or elsewhere ; 
( ii ) whether at the time of applying for licence or at 

any previous time. 
8. Distance by public road of the proposed site to the : 

(i ) nearest permanent cinema; 
( ii ) nearest touring cinema ; 
( iii ) nearest school; 
( iv ) nearest hospital; and 

( V ) nearest temple or other religious institution . 
9. Interest of the public generally likely to be served by the 
location of the cinema. 

10. Population of the place according to the latest census 
figures . 

11. Suitability of the place where the cinema exhibitions are 
proposed to be given . 

12. Adequacy of the existing places for the exhibition of 
cinema films in the locality . 

13. Benefit to any particular locality or localities to be 
aforded by the opening of a new place of cinema exhibition . 
Dated 

Signature of applicant. 
FORM.C 
Government of Goa , Daman and Diu 

Electrical Inspectorate ": 
Office of the Electrical Inspector, Panjim ;) 
Certificate no. 

dated 
Centificate of the cinema apparatus and plant , electric 
installation , fire - fighting appliances and fire precautionary 

measures. 


7 


No objection certificate 
In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 

of 
the Goa , Daman and Diu Cinematograph Rules , 1965 , I, 

do hereby grant this certificate 
that is no objection to Shri 
son of Shri 

resident of village 
tadukas district 

locating 
a permanent /touring cinema in the land belonging to Shri 
village, 

taluka 
district 

locating 
The site where the cinema is to be located is specified 
below : 

(Please give here the description of the site as in Form 

This « No Objection » certificate is valid for a period of two 
years in the case of permanent cinemas, and six months in 
the case of touring cinemas from the date hereof and if within , 
this period , the proposed cinema is not put up , a fresh « No 
Objection should be applied for . 
Given under my hand , this 

19 . 


) 


day of 


Licensing Authority 


FORME 


Renewed up to 


Government of. Goa , Daman and Diu 

Cinema Operator s Licence 
Valid upita 

Renewed up to : 
Licence number and date . 
Name of the licensee : 
Fathe r name: 
Address of the licensee. : D 
Present address , 
Number and date of the 
certificate of competency 
Issued by the..!! 


- 


:.... 


... . 


... 


29TH JULY , 1965 


207 


( 2 ) Chalan for payment of rupee one only being renewed 
fee , remitted into a Government Treasury , sub - treasury 
Reserve Bank of India or any of the branches of the State 
Bank of India to the credit of the Government under the head 
of accounts . 


The holder of this licence is authorised to operate the Cine 
matograph Apparatus throughout the Union Territories of 
Goa, Daman and Diu , subject to the conditions furnished 
below : 

Electrical Inspector 
Electrical Inspector 

Electrical Inspector 

Conditions 
The licence is valid up to 19 It should be renewed 
within five years from date of issue . 

The operator should intimate this office when he proceeds 
on leave, resigns or accepts new appointments . 

The application for renewal should be sent to the Electrical 
Inspector by registered post at last three months prior to the 
date of expiry enclosing : 

( 1 ) The licence to be renewed and the competency certi 
ficate issued by the 


For belated applications a penalty of rupee one for each 
month or part thereof should also be paid into the Govern 
ment Treasury or State Bank of India , and the chalan en 
closed . 


( 3 ) Two copies of photographs of applicant 2 " X3 " in size 
taken within a year of application . 

( 4 ) Two specimen signatures of the applicant. 
( 5 ) Permanent address ; and 

(6 ) Present address (with details of where at present 
employed ) . 


} 


1 


GOVT. PRINTING PRESS - GOA 
( Imprengs Nacional. Goa ) 

PRICE 94 Ps. 


. 


.. 


