turet po to 222 


REGISTERED No. D . 222 


My 


47 


l 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


- 


No 29 ) 
No. 29 ] 


of facant , farart, TTT 16, 1966 / 41919 25 , 1888 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, JULY 16, 1966/ ASADHA 25, 1888 


इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या की जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
Separate paging is given to this part in order that It may be fled 

as a separate compllation . 


भौदिस 


NOTICE 


fra uita @ GATETTU 1797 30 77 , 1966 Jati yfirfara fat nät :- - 
The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were putliktid ip to 11e 30th June , 
1966 : 


Ingue 


No, and Date 


Issued ty 


Subject 


No. 


200 $. 0 , 1991, dated 29th 

Junc, 1966 . 
201 S . O . 1995, dated 30th 

June , 1966 , 


Ministry of Petroleum 

und Chemicals, 
Ministry of Labour, lo 

ployment and Rehabili 
tation , 


TheEthylAlcohol (Price Control) 

Order, 1966 . 
Direction that thc umount of the 

advance premium in respect 
of the quarter ending tha 
3oth September 1966 shall 
(i) in the case of a person havn 
ing a policy in force on 30th 
June, 1966 , be nil ; and ( i ) in 
any other case , be at the rate 
of six paise per one hundred 
rupees of the wages bill for 
the quarter ending the 30th 

June, 1966 . 
Approval of the film as speci 

fied therein . 
The Central Civil Services (Re 
vised Pay ) Amendment Rules , 
1906 . 


202 


S . O . 1996 , dated zoth 

June , 1966 . 
S . O . 1997 , dated 30th 

June, 1966 . 


Ministry of Information 

and Broadcasting, 
Ministry of Finance 


203 


( 2009 ) 


2010 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 /ASADHA 25 , 1888 


[PART 11 


Issue 
No. 


No, and Date 


Issucd by 


Subject 


204 S . O . 1993 , dated 39th Ministry of Petroleum 
June, 1966 . 

aniChemicals . 
205 S . O . 1999, dated 30th Ministry of Commerce 

June, 1966 . 


The Drugs Pricce (Display and 

Control) Order , 1966 . 
A body of persons for making a 

complete investigation into 
the fall of production in 
respect of cotton textiles ma 
nufactured in the Rajratng 
Naranbhai Mills Co. Ltd ., 
Petlad (Gujarat State ). 


205 S . O . 203) , date 3oth 

June, 1966 . 


Cabinet Secretariat 


207 S. 0 . 2001, dated 30th 

June, 1966 . 


Ministry of Industry 


Amendments in the Government 
of India (Allocation of Busi 

n088) Rules , 1961. 
Extending Order No. S . O . 
2216 , dated 10th July, 1965 
for a further period of one year 

from the Iith July , 1966 . 
Corrections in the Delimi 
tation Commission s Order 
No . 14 , dated 23rd April , 

1966 , (Order No. 14A ). 
Corrigendum to Order No . 

S . O . 3504 , dated 2nd Nov 
ember , 1965. 


208 


S . O . 2002 , Jated 30th 

June, 1966 . 


Election Commission , 

India . 


209 S . O . 2033, datci 3oth 

Junc , 1966 . 


Ministry of Food, Agri 

culture , Community 
Development and Co 
operation , 


ऊपर लिखे असाधारण राजपत्रों की प्रतियां प्रकाशन प्रबन्धक, सिविल लाइन्स, दिल्ली के नाम 
मांगपत्र भेजने पर भेज दी जाएंगी । मांगपत्र प्रबन्धक के पास इन राजपत्रों के जारी होने की तारीख 
# 10 fe t a TEZ Jil eile 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied op 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes . 


HTT 11 - 2008 3.- 44 ( ii) 

PART II - Section 3-— Sub - section ( ii) 
(रक्षामंत्रालय को छोड़कर ) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयों और (संघ तंत्र प्रशासन को छोड़कर) 
कन्द्रीय प्राधिकरणों द्वारा जारी किए गए विधिक आदेश और अधिसूचनाएं । 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administration of Union Territories ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 2nd July 1966 


8 . 0 . 2091 - In oxardiac of the powors conferred by gecrion 21 and 15 - 5 - ction ( 1 ) of section 22 of 
he Reprosentation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission horoby appoints , in rcspec 


SFC . $(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 188 


2011 


ofcach of the Parliamentary constituencies in the State of Madras as determined by the Dell 
mitation Commission in its ordor No. 9 , dated the 16th $ opto. 521 , 1955 , and specified in column 
I of the Table below : 

(a ) The officor specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the said Table to be the 

Roturning Officer ; and 
(b) The officers specified in the corresponding entry in column 3 of the said Table to be the 
AssistantReturning Officers . 

TABLE 


Name of the Constitu - 

ency . 


Returning Officer 


Assistant Roturning Officers 


( 1 ) 


I. Madras (North ) , Commissioner , Corporation of 1. Special Deputy Collector ( Elections), 
Madras . 

Medrag City . 
2 . Assistant Commissioner (North ), Cor 

poration ofMadras. 
3 . Revenue Officer , Corporation of 

Madras. 
2 . Madras (South ) . Collector of Madras . 

1. Personal Assistant to the Collector of 

Madras . 
2 . Assistant Commissioner (South ), 

Corporationof Madras . 

3 . District Welfare Officer,Madras. 
3 . Sripcrumbudur. Collector of Chirgloput . 1. Personal Assistant (General) to the 

CollectorofChingleput . 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer, Saldapet . 

3 . District Welfare Officer, Chingleput . 
4 . Chingleput. District Revenue Officer, 1. Revenue Divisional Officer , Chingle , 
Chingleput. 

put. 
2 . Parsunal Assistant (Panchayat Deve 
lopment) to the Collector of Chingle 

put. 
3 . Revenue Dlvisional Officer, Kanches 

puram . 
5. Tiruttani. • District Revenue O cor , 1 . Reyenu : Divisional, Officer , Tiruvallur . 
Chingleput. 

2 . Special Deputy Collector (Rocurring 

Compensation ), Nandanam , Madras, 

3 . Revenue Divisional Officer Ranipat , 
6 . Velloro . 

. Collector of North Arcot, 1 . Personal Assistant to the Collceror of 
Vellore . 

North Arcut, Vellorc . 
2 . Additional Personal Assistant to the 

Collector of North Arcot, Vellore. 
3 . Personal Assistant (Panchayat Devo 

lopmont (North ) to the Collector of 

North Arcot, Vollore . 
7 . Tiruppattur , District Revenue Officer , Norch i. Ravenyo Divisional Officor, Tiruppa 
Arcot, Velloro. 

ttur, 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer, Tiruvan 

namalai. 
3 . Personal Assistant (Panchayat Deve 

lopment) (South ) to the Collector of 
North Arcot, Vellore , 


District Revenue Officer, North 1. District Wolfare Officer, North Arcot 
Arcot , Vellorc . 

District, Vellore, 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer, Cheyyar . 
3 . Personal Assistant (Panchayat Dave 

lopment ( South ) to the Collector of 
North Arcot , Vellore . 


2012 


[PART II-- 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1960 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 
- - - = - --- - - = 

= 
( 1) 

(3) 


9 . Tindivanam . 


10 . Cuddalore . 


II, Chidambaram . 


12 . Kallakuichi. 


Collectos of South Arcot, I. Personal Assistant (Panchayat Dave 
Cuddaloro . 

lopinent) ( South ) to the Collector of 
North Arcot, Vellore , 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer, Tindi 

yanam . 
3 . Personil Assistant ( Panchayat Devo 
lopment) (North ) 10 the Collector of 

Şouth Arcot. 
4 . Authorised Officer (Land Reforms), 

Cuddalore , 
Collector of South Arcot, Cud- 1. Assistant Commissioner, Agricultural 
dalore. 

Incometax , Villupuram . 
2 . Personal Assistant (General) to the 

Collector of South Arcot , Cuddalore . 
3 . District Welfare Officer , South Arcot. 
4 . Revenue Divisional Officer , Tirukkoi 

lur. 
District Revenue Officer , 1, District Welfare Officer , South Arcot, 
Cuddalore . 

2 . Authorised Officer (Land Reforms) , 

Cuddalore , 
3 . Ravenue Divisional Officer , Chicam 

baram . 
4 . Personal Assistant (Panchayat Deve 

lopment) ( Soutlı ) to the Collector of 

South Arcot, Cuddalore . 
District Revenue Officer , I . Additional Personal Assistant to the 
Cuddalore . 

Collector of South Arcot, Cuddaloro. 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer , Vricha 

chalam . 
3 . Personal Assistant (Goneral ) to the 

Collector of Salem . 
Collector of Dharmapuri, I . Revenue Divisional Officer , Hosur. 

2 . District Welfare Officer , Dharmapuri, 
3 . Personal Assistant (Panchayat Deve 

lopinent ) lo the Collector of Dharma 

Pui. 
4 . Revenue Divisional Officer , Dharina 

puri. 
Collector of Salem . 

1. Municipal Commissioner , Salem . 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer , Salem . 
3 . District Welfare Officer , Salem , 
4 . Personal Assistant (Panchayat Deve 

lopment) to the Collector of Dharma 

puri . 
5 . Personal Assistant (General ) to the 

Collector of Dharmapuri. 
District Revenue Officer , 1. Revenue Divisional Officer , Mettur. 
Salern . 

2 . Personal Assistant (Par lovat Do 

velopnient ) (North ) to the Collector of 

Salem . 
3 . Revenue Divisional Officer , Sanla 1, 
4 . Revenue Divisional Officer, Dharma 

puri. 
District Revenue Officer, Salom . I. Revenue Divisional Officer, Selem . 

2 . Peryonal Assistant (Panchayat De 

velopment) (South ) to the Collector of 

Salem . 
3 . Revenue DivisionalOfficer , Namakkal. 
4 . Additional Personal Assistant to tho 

Collector of Salem . 


13 . Krishnagiri. 


14 . Salem . 


15 . Mettur. 


16 . Tiruchengode . 


Sic. % (il)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 18 , 1966 / ASADHA 25, 1888 


2013 


(3 ) 


17 . Nilgiris. 


Collector of the Nilgiris. 


18 . Coimbatore , 


Collector of Cojinbatore. 


I . Personal Assistant (General) to the 

Collector of Nilgiris . 
2 . Personal Assistant ( Panchayat De 

velopment) to the Collector of Nilgiris . 
3 . District Welfare Officer , Nilgiris . 
4 . Revenue Divisionul Officor , Coim 

batore. 
5 . District Welfare Oficer, Coimbatore. 
1. District Welfare Officer, Coimbatore. 
2 . Special Deputy Collector , (Land 
Acquisition ), No. II Parambikulam 

Aliyar Project, Pollachi. 
3 . Municipal Commissioner, Coimba 

tore . 
4 . Special Deputy Collector, (Land 

Acquisition ), No, III Parambikulam 

Aliyar Project, Udumalpet. 
I. Special Doputy Collector , (Land 
Acquisition ), No. I Parambikulam 

Aliyar Project, Pollachi. 
2 . Personal Assistant (General) to the 

Collector of Coimbatore, 
3 . Royenue Divisional Officer , Erode. 
I. Revenue Divisional Officer, Pollachi. 
2 . Personal Assistant (Panchayat Deve 
lopment) ( East ) to tho Collector of 

Coimbatore . 
3 . Additional Personal Assistant to tho 

Collector ofMadurai, 


19. Pollachi. 


Collezor of Coimbatore . 


20 . Diarapuram . 


District Revenue Officer, 

Coimbatore. 


21. Gobichettipalayam . District Revenue Officer , 

Coimbatoro , 


22 . Periakulam , 


Diztrict Revenue Officer, 

Madurai 


1. Additional Personal Assistant to the 

Collector of Coimbatore . 
1 . Personal Assistant (Panchayat Davc 

lopment) (West) to the Colloctor of 

Coimbatore , 
3 . Revenue Divisional Officer, Goblchet 

tipalayam . 
I . Personal Assistant (General) to the 

Collector of Madurai. 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer , Poria 

kulam . 
3 . District Welfare Officer , Madurai. 
1. Revenue Divisional Officer, Usilan 

patti. 
a . Special Deputy Collector, Kallar 

Reclamation , Madurai. 
3 . Personal Assistant (Panchayat Daya 

lopincnt) (West) to the Collector of 
Madurai. 


23. Dindigul. 


DistrictRevenue Officer, 

Madurai. 


24. Madurai. 


Collector of Madurai. 


I . Personal Assistant (Panchayat Do 

velopment) ( East) to the Collector of 
Madurai. 
2 . Municipal Commissioner, Madurai. 
3 . Revenue Divisional Officer, Madurai. 
1. Revenue Divisional Officer , Dindigul, 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer , Karur . 
3 . District Welfare Officer , Tiruchird 

palli . 
4 . Special Deputy Collector, Revenue 

Court, Tiruchirapalli. 


25 . Karur 


District Revenue Officer , 

Tiruchirapalli. 


2014 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 18 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


[PART II 


(3) 


26 . Tiruchirapalli 


Collector of Tiruchirapalli . 


I. Revenue Divisional Officer, Musiri 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer? 

Tiruchirapalli. 
3. Municipal Commissioner, Tiruchira 

palli . 


27 . Perambalur 


District Revenue 

Tiruchirapalli. 


Officer, 


28 . Pudukkottai 


Collector of Tiruchirapalli 


I. Personal Assistant ( Panchayat De 
velopment ) (South ) to the Collector 

of Tiruchirapalli. 
2 . Personal Assistant (Panchayat 

Development) (North ) to the Collec 

tor of Tiruchirapalli. 
3 . Revenue Divisional Officer , Ariyalur. 
4 . Additional Personal Assistant to the 

Collector of Tiruchirapalli. 
1. District Welfare Officer, Tiruchira 

palli. 
2 . Additional Personal Assistant to the 

Collector of Tiruchirapalli. 
3 . Revenuc Divisional Officer, Puduk 

kottai, 
4 . Personal Assistant (General) to the 

Collector of Tiruchirapalli. 
5 . Personal Assistant Panchayat De 

velopment) (East) to the Collector of 
Ramanathapuram , 


29. Kumbakonam 


Collector of Thanjavur ? 


I , Reveliue Divisional Officer Ariyallur. 
2 . Revenuc Divisional Officer , 

Thanjavur. 
3 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Kumbakonam . 
4 . Additional Personal Assistant to the 

Collector of Thanjavur. 
I. Personal Assistant (Panchayat De 
velopment) (East) to the Collector of 

Thanjavur, 
2 . Revenuc Divisional Oflicer, Mayuram . 
3 . Revenuc Divisional Officer , Naga 

pattinam , 


30. Mayuram 


Distri ct Revenue Officer, 

Thanjavur. 


31. Nagapattinam 


District Revenue Officer , 

Thanjavur. 


32 . Thanjavur 


Collector of Thanjavur 


1. Personel Assistant (Gencral) to the 

Collector of Thanjavur. 
2 . District Welfare Officer , Thanjavur, 
3 . Revenue Divisional officer Mannargud . 
I. Municipal Commissioner, Than 

javur. 
2 . Personal Assistant ( Panchayat De 

velopment) (West) to the Collector 

of Thanjavur, 
3 . Revenue Divisional Officer, Pattuk 

kottai, 
4. Revenue Divisional Officer, Than 

jayur, 
5 . Special Deputy Collector, Revenue 

Court, Thanjavur . 


33 . Sivaganga 


District Revenue Officer, 

Ramanathapuram at 
Madurai, 


I, Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Devakottai, 
2 . Additional Personal Assistant to the 

Collector of Ramanathapuram . 
3 . Revenue Divisional Officer, Siya 

ganga . 


SEC . 3(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16, 1966/ ASADHA 25 , 1888 


2015 


34 . Ramanathapuram 


District Revenue Officer , 

Ramanathapuram at 
Mądurai, 


35 . Sivakasi 


. 


Collector of Ranjanathapuram 

at Madurai. 


36. Tirunelveli 


Collector of Tirunclveli 


, 


37. Tenkasi 


District Revenue Officer , 

Tirunelveli , 


1. Revenue Divisional Officer , Rama - 

nathapuram . 
2 . Personal Assistant (General) to the 

Collector of Ramanathapuram . 
3 . District Welfare Officer, Ramanatha - 

puram . 
4 . Deputy Collector /Manager Ettaya 

puram . 
1 . Personal Assistant Panchayat De 
velopment) (West ) to the Collector 

of Ramanathapuram , 
2 , Revenue Divisional Officer , Sivakaşi, 
3 . Personal Assistant (General) to the 

Collector of Ramanathapuram at 
Madurai, 
4 . Revenue Divisional Officer, Koilpaiti , 
I, Deputy Collector Manager , 

Ettayapuram . 
2 . Personal Assistant (Panchayat De 

velopment) (South ) to the Collector 

of Tirunelveli. 
3 . District Welfare Officer, Tirunelvcli. 
4 . RevenueDivisional Omcer, Tuticorin . 
I, Revenue Divjøioral Officer, Kolipatti , 
2 . Personal Assistant (General) to the 

Collector of Tirunelveli. 
3 . Revenue Divisional Officer , Tirunel 

veli. 
4 . Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Cheranmahadevi. 
I . Revenue Divisional Officer 

Cherenmahadevi. 
2 . Personal Assistant (Panchayat De 

velopment ) (North ) to the Collector of 

Tirunelveli, 
3 . Additional Personal Assistant to the 

Collector of Tirunelvell. 
4 . Personal Assislant to the Collector of 

Kanyakumari. 
1 . Personal Assistant (General) to the 

Collector of Kanyakumari, 
2 . Personal Assistant ( Panchayat De 

velopment ) to the Collector of Kanya 
kumari, 
3 . Revenue Divisional Officer, Padma 

nabhapuram , 
4 . District Welfare Officer, Nagercoil, 
5 . Special Deputy Collector , ( Land 

Acquisition ) Thuckalay . 


vel 


38 . Tiruchendur 

Tirunelveli 


District Revenue 

Tirunelveli 


Officer , 


39 . Nagercoil 


Collector of Kanyakumari 


No. 434/MD /65. 

By Order , 
PRAKASH NARAIN , Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRB 

New Delhi, the 1st July 1906 
S . O . 2002 . - The following bye- laws made by the Haj Committee, Bombay , 
under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 18 of the Haj Committee Act, 1959 (51 of 1959 ) 


2016 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


[Part II 


and confirmed by the Central Government under sub - section ( 2 ) of that section , 
are hereby published as required by sub - section ( 3 ) thereof, namely : 


PART I 
1. Title. These bye- laws may be called the Haj Committec Bye -Laws, 1966 . 
2 . In these bye- laws, unless the context otherwise requires , 

( 1 ) " ACT means the Haj Committee Act, 1959 ( 51 of 1959) ; 
( 2 ) " SECTION " means section of the Act ; 
( 3 ) " RULE " means a rule framed under section 17 of the Act ; 
( 4 ) " SUB -COMMITTEE ” mcans any Sub - Committee appointed under sec 

tion 13 of the Act ; 
(5 ) " CHAIRMAN " . " VICE - CHAIRMAN ” and “ MEMBER " mean the Chair 

man , Vice - Chairman or member , as the case may be, of the Com 

mittee ; 
(6 ) " EXECUTIVE OFFICER " means Executive Officer of the Committee ; 
( 7 ) " SUPERINTENDENT" means Superintendent of the Office of the Com 

mittee ; 
( 8 ) " ACCOUNTANT” means the Accountant of the office of the Committee ; 
( 9 ) " STAFF ” means any of the members of the staff of the office of the 

Committee ; 
( 10 ) " REFUND ” includes all refund in respect of pilgrims passage money , 

pilgrims estate money or pilgrims deposit money ; and 
( 11) " INDIGENT PILGRIMS FUND ” means the fund at the disposal of the 

Committee for the relief and repatriation of stranded Indian pil 
grims at Bombay . 

PART II 
3 . Election , term of office and powerg and duties of Vloc - Chairman , - ( 1 ) The 
Cornmittee shall, as soon as may be after the election of the Chairman , elect two 
of its members ay Vice - Chairmen . 

( 2 ) Each of the Vice - Chairmen shall be elected by a simple majority of mem 
bers present and voting . In the case of a lie the Chairman shall exercise his 
casting vote . 

( 3 ) The Vice - Chairmen shall hold office for a period of one year from the 
date of their respective election and may be eligible for re - election . 

( 4 ) In the absence of the Chairman the Vice - Chairmen shall perform such 
duties of the Chairman as are delegated to him by the Chairman . He shall also 
perform such other duties as may be delegated to him by the Chairman from 
time to time, 

( 5 ) A Vice -Chairman shall cease to hold office if he ceases to be a member 
of the Committee. 

( A ) A Vice - Chairman may resign from his office by giving one month s 
notice to the Committee of his intention to do so . 

( 7 ) A Vice - Chairman shall be removable from his office by a motion of no 
confidence, passed by a majority of not less than two third of all the members 
of the Committee at a special meeting . Such removal shall take effect immedi 
ately on the passing of such resolution . 

( 8 ) Any casual vacancy in the office of a Vice - Chairman , shall be filled in the 
same manner as the election of the Vice - Chairman , 

( 9 ) A person Alling such casual vacancy shall remain in office for the un 
expired portion of the term of the member in whose place he is elected . Any 
such person shall be eligible for re- election . 

PART III 
4 . Meeting Procedure Notice etc. - ( 1) All ordinary meetings of the Commlttee 
shall ordinarlly be held in the office of the Committee in terms of Section 10 ( 1 ) 
of the Act on any working day of the month . 


Sic . $(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 /ASADHA 25 , 1888 


2017 


( ii ) Notice of each ordinary meeting shall be sent to each member by the 
Executive Officer either by hard or by post to his last known address at least 
Aftecn days before the date of the meeting, though the agenda papers may follow 
later on . 

( iii ) A special mecting of the Committee shall be convened in the manner 
prescribed in the proviso to sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 10 of the Haj Committee Rules , 
1963. 

( iv ) Notice of any adjourned meeting or special meeting shall be given in 
any manner au decided by the Chairman at least 24 hours before the date of the 
meeting . 

( v ) Every notice of meeting shall specify the place, time and date of the 
meeting and the business to be transacted . 

(vi) All proceedings of the meeting shall be conducted in English or Urdu . 
Provided that a member may address the meeting in Hindi if he so desires , 

(vii ) All the meetings of the Committee shall be presided over hy the Chair 
nian . In the absence of the Chairman , the Vice - Chairman nominated by Chair 
man or in his absence the other Vice - Chairman or in the absence of the other 
Vice - Chairman any member elected by the members present and voting, shall 
preside over the meetings . 

(viii ) Only the business notified in the agenda shall be transacted at an 
ordinary meeting but any other item may also be admitted by Chairman in terms 
of Rule 11 ( 4 ) of the Haj Committee Rules 1963 or may be moved by the Chair . 

(ix ) Only such business shall be transacted at a special meeting as is included 
in the agenda for the meeting . 

Any meeting may with the consent of the majority of members present and 
voting be adjourned from time to time to some other hour of the day or some 
other day. Only the items left undisposed shall be inoved and discussed at such 
Adjourned meeting : 

Provided that at any such adjourned meeting wherein any Budget Estimatet 
or Revised Estimates are under consideration , any fresh proposal or alteration 
may be moyed and discussed . 

5 . Conduct of Meetings. - ( 1 ) Order of business to be transacted at a meeting 
shall be as notified in the Agenda , 

Provided that if a member desires priority to be given to any item and a 
majority of the members present so decides the presiding officer shall grant such 
priority . 

( 2 ) A member shall stop speaking when a point of order is raised and shall 
not speak till the point of order is decided by the presiding officer. The presid 
ing officer may , however, allow the member to reply to the point of order raised . 


( 3 ) A member shall stop speaking and resume his seat when the presiding 
oficer starts speaking . 

( 4 ) The Presiding Officer shall be responsible for preserving order at the 
moeting and may direct any member whosc conduct is in his opinion disorderly 
and not conducive to the decorum of the meeting, to withdraw immediately from 
the meeting . Such member shall do so forthwith and shall absent himself dur 
ing the remaining period of that meeting . If any member refuses to withdraw , 
then the presiding officer may with the consent of the Committee direct him to 
absent himself from three meetings or for a period of three months whichever is 
longer and such member shall absent himselt accordingly : 


Such member shall not be allowed to serve on any Sub - Committee of which 
he may be a member during the period of such disqualification provided that 
the Chairman on the receipt of an apology in writing from such member may 
with the consent of the Committee remove the above disqualification . 

( 5 ) The presiding officer may in the event of grave disorder suspend the 
meeting for a period not exceeding threc days. 

8 . ( 1 ) Every substantive resolution or motion shall be written or printed 
legibly in English or in Urdu and shall be read at the meeting and the mover may 


2018 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 /ASADHA 25 , 1888 


[PART II 


speak in favour of the motion and shall hand il over to the presiding officer. 
Every motion shall be required to be seconded before it is discussed at the 
meeting. The seconder may speak in favour of motion at the time of seconding , 

( 2 ) If a motion of which notice had been given is not moved by the member 
who had given notice of the motio or by any duly authorised member ( ouch 
authorisation shall be presented to the presiding officer at the meeting ) , the 
motion shall be deemed to have been dropped , provided that if the member 
intimates his inability to attend the meeting the consideration of the motion shall 
be postponed to the next meeting, unless the chairman directs otherwise . 

7 . Amendment. After a motion has been proposed and seconded any amend 
ment to it may be moved . If the amendment is passed the motion so nmended 
shall take the form of the substantive proposition 

8 Withdrawal of motion . The motion or amendment moved and seconded 
shall be withdrawn except with the permission of the Committee. 

9 . Division of motion . The presiding officer may divide any motion into two 
or more distinct propositions, if in his opinion it is so complicated as to be likely 
to lead to confusion and , may put the same to vote in such order as he may 
think proper . 

10 . Adfournment motion ,. - When a motion for adjournment of a debate is 
moved the presiding officer shall put it to vote after giving the members present 
such reasonable opportunnity to speak in favour or against the motion : 

Provided that no such motion shall be moved when any member is speaking. 

11. Voting procedure . Every motion or amendment shall be put by the presid 
ing officer to the vote of the Committee . Vote shall be taken by show of hands. 

If a Poll is demanded by any member , the names of members voting for and 
against the question including those who have abstained shall be recorded by the 
presiding officer. 

The result of the voting shall be declared by the presiding officer and shall 
not be challenged . The result of the voting as entered in the minutes book shall 
be the conclusive proof of the result. 

12 . Motion for question already disposed . - No motion in respect of any question 
once disposed of shall be brought bcfore the meeting for a period of at least three 
months from the date of such disposal: 

Provided that if at least five members gend a requisition in writing to the 
Committee for its reconsideration , the Committee may discuss the same question 
over again and take a decision . 

13 . Sub - Committee , - ( 1 ) The Committee may appoint any Sub -Committee or 
Sub - Committees with such number of members as it thinks it and refer to it for 
enquiry and report any question appearing on the agenda of a mceling of the 
Committee . 

( ii ) Except in the case where a Chairman of the Sub - Committee is appointed 
by the Committee the following order of preference shall be observed for 
appointing a presiding officer for any of the Sub - Committees 


( a ) Chairman of the Committee if he is a member of that Sub - Committee. 
(b ) Vice-Chairman of the Committee if he is a member of that sub 

committee . 
( c ) Any one of the Vice -Chairmen ( it both are members ) chosen by the 

members of the sub - committee. 
( d ) Any member of that sub - committee elected by its members . 
( iii) All the bye- laws in respect of the meetings of the Committee shall, ag 
far as possible, apply to the meetings of sub - committees also : 

Provided that no motion or amendment need be seconded at the meetings of 
a suh - committee. 


( iv ) A sub -committee shall report to the Committee on any question referred 
to it within the period specited by the Committee . 

14, Minutes . ( i ) The names of the member present and the minutes of the 
proceedings of every meeting shall be drawn up and entered by the Secretary 


Sec. ( ii ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1986 /ASADHA 25 , 1888 


in a book to be provided for this purpose, Such minutes shall be drawn up and 
entered in the book or on the day of the meeting or as soon thereafter do practic 
able . 

( ii ) Copies of the minutes shall be sent to the members within seven days 
from the date of meeting to which the minutes relate . 

( iii ) Minutes of every meeting shall be placed before the next following 
meeting and shall be presumed 28 read , unless the majority of members present 
require them to be read and shall be signed by the presiding officer at such next 
meeting with the consent of the majority of members present: 

Provided that if any member objects to the minutes as having been incor 
rectly or incompletely recorded , the presiding officer shall after assessing the 
opinion of the mceting make such amendments therein as he thinks proper and 
thereupon sign them . 

( iv ) The minute book of the Committce shall be open to inspection , at the 
office of the Committec during office hours by any member of the Committee 
free of charge . 

( v ) The Chairman may allow any muslim to inspect the minutes of any meeting 
of the Haj Committee on payment of a fee of Rs. 5 . 

PART IV 
16 . Publication of manuals etc . -- ( i) The Committee may publish Manuals , 
Booklets , Pamphlets or hand -bills for the purpose of informing and educating 
the pilgrims in all matters of pilgrim trafllc . 

( ii) These Publications may be published in different languages understood 
generally by the public in different parts of the country . 

( iii ) The Committee may issue press notes and press releases with regard to 
sailing programme, alteration in sailings and fight schedules , rules and regula 
tions of foreign exchange, cxport and import rules, restrictions on pilgrims health 
and booking of passages with alterations and additions for the information of 
pilgrims in term of Section 9 ( b ) of the Act. 

PART V 
17. Welfare of Pilgrims. -- ( i ) The Committee may undertake the distribution 
of Cloth and Foodgrains for consumption of the pilgrims in transit as well as 
for carrying the same to Saudi Arabia for their use or consumption during their 
stay in Hedjaz as prescribed by the Government of Saudi Arabia from time to 
time. 

( ii ) The Committee may provide medical assistance to the inbound pilgrims. 

( jii) The Committee may also make necessary arrangements for the pilgrims 
for travelling from and to their place of residence in India . 

( iv ) The Committer may make necessary arrangements for assisting and guid 
ing the pilgrims in Bombay . 

( v ) Arrangements for the inoculation , vaccination and Anal medical check up 
of and enforcing other such restrictions imposed on the pilgrims by the Govern 
ment from time to time shall be made by the Committee . 


( vi) The Committee shall arrange proper accommodation for the pilgrims in 
transit . 

All expenses under these heads shall be mct from the Welfare Fund or the 
Hai Fund of the Haj Committee to which shall be credited the sums specified in 
Section 14 of the Act. 

18 . Indigent Pligrims repatriation . The Committee shall provide relief and 
repatriate such of the indigent Indian Haj pilgrims as are stranded in Bombay 
soon after their return from the pilgrimage . 


19. Unclaimed Property - The Committee shall be entitled to claim any un 
claimed property of the pilgrims, lying at the Railway Station , Customs Shed , 
Wharf, on board the pilgrim ship , Airport or within the precincts of any 
Musafirkhana. Such property shall be disposed of by public auction , if it remains 


. 2020 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADIA 25 , 1888 


[Part II 


unclaimed after duc notice, at the expiry of six months therefor and its proceeds 
credited to Haj Fund . 


PART VI 
20 . Office working procedure . ( i ) For the sake of administrative convenience 
and prompt and efficient discharge of work , the general correspondence work 
may be kept distinct from accounts work under separate supervisions. 

( ii ) The administrative section shall be under the direct supervision of the 
office superintendent and shall deal with all matters relating to pilgrim traffic , 
for example , preparation of pilgrim passes, sailing and flights and Customs 
Regulation , Mazdoor arrangements, arrangements at wharts and Air Port, volun 
- teers , Miscellaneous inquiries, publication and accommodation , embarkation and 
disembarkation of pilgrims and other general work . 

( iii ) The accounts section shall be under the direct supervision of the Account 
ant and shall deal with all matters of accounts , salary and allowance , Provident 
Fund and other service matters of the office Establishment, investments , interest 
on investments . Income - tax , refunds - all receipts and payments — Budget, Audit 
Reports , repatriation , subsidies and dead stock , all accounts concerning distribu 
tion of cloth and foodgrains and air charter accounts . 

( iv ) Both the office superintendent and the accountant shall be responsible to 
the Executive Oncer for the smooth and orderly function of the office . The 
office superintendent will exercise general supervision over the work of adminis 
trative and accounts sections. All papers , documents and correspondence shall 
be routed through the superintendent for the Executive Oncer s perusal and 
orders. 

( v ) Office superintendent or the Accountant shall in the absence of the Execu 
tive Officer on leave attend to and sign papers and correspondence of only routine 
nature . 

( vi) During the leave period of more than a week s absence of the Executive 
Officer , necessary officiating appointment may be made by the Chairman in which 
case the onciating incumbent may , while he functions as such , gign documents 
and important papers and agreements , 

( vii ) All receipts will be regularly and properly credited to Haj Fund and 
all payments made therefrom . 

( viii ) To meet day to day expenditure the office cashier may be allowed to 
keep in hand an imprest to be fixed by the Committee every year in 2ccordance 
with its requirements . 

( ix ) The Cashier , shall offer security in cash or execute security bond of the 
amount to be fixed by the Committee. 

21, Establishment. - (i) The Establishment of the office of the Committee shall 
be governed by the conditions of service as prescribed in the Rules , 

( il) All matters concerning the establishment may be decided in accordance 
with the Fundamental Rules and Supplementary Rules of the Government of 
India . 

( iii ) The staff of the Committee shall be eligible for allowance as are admis 
sible to the Central Government employees stationed in Bombay . 

(iv ) The staff of the Committee shall be eligible for the benefits of Honorarla , 
Provident Fund . Gratuity , Leave Travel Concession , Medical Relief and any 
allowance sanctioned by the Committee from time to time with the approval of 
the Central Government. 

( v ) The hours of work for the office ot the Committee shall be from 10 - 30 A . M , 
to 5 - 30 PM , with half an hour lunch break between 1 and 2 P . M , 

The staff of the office of the Committee may be required to put in extra hours 
of work as and when required . 

(vi) The Committees shall declare a list of the holidays to be obgerved and 
may generally observe the holidays declared by the Government of India for its 
offices , 


Suc . (li)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADIJA 95, 1BAS 


2021: 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- - 


PART VII 
22. Contracts .- - ( i ) For execution of any work or contract of Contingent nature 
or Publicity etc., the Executive Ollicer shall invite quotations as required under 
prescribed duties of the Committee laid down in Act and Rules involving value 
of more than Rs. 25 . 

( ii ) All such quotations shall be received in sealed covers and shall be opened 
by the Executive Officer in such manner as he deems At. In special cases of 
small works requiring immediate attention verbal quotations from the fenderers 
may be taken by Executive Officer . 

( iii) In the interest of superiority and perfection of work the Executive Officer 
may accept a higher quotation in a tender than the lowest in his own discretion . 

( iv ) The Exrcutive Officer can get works up to an estimated value of Rs. 25 
complcted without ralling for any tenders from the dealers. 


PART VIII 
23 . Budget. — ( i ) In preparing the annual and Supplementary estimates of the 
Committee s ways and mcans and expenses to be incurred during the course of 
the year, the principles as laid down in Government of India Financial Rules 
may be followed . 


( ii ) The official year shall be reckoned from 1st of April and shall close on 
31st of March of cach calendar year , 

24 . Records. - ( i ) The following Registers and Records shall be inaintained 
in the office of the Committee and every member shall have acress to them for 
reference. 


REGISTERS 


( 1 ) Minute Book . 
( 2 ) Dead Stock Register. 
( 3 ) Outward Correspondence Register . 
( 4 ) Inward Correspondence Register . 
(5 ) Stamp Account Register showing: 

( a ) Monthly Arcount. 
(b ) Stock and 

( c ) Daily Account. 
( 6 ) Stationery Register . 
( 7 ) Forms Register . 
( 8 ) Intestate Property Register ( Pilgrims Estates ) . 
( 9 ) Unclaimed Property Register . 
( 10 ) Register of Pilgrims Passes issued . 
( 11) Register of Visitors Passes for pilgrim ships , 
( 12 ) Register of Petty Supplies, 
( 13 ) Register of Statements and Returns to be supplied to authorities, 
( 14 ) Register of Attendance of Staff. 

( 15 ) Register of Black List of Pilgrims Guides and their servants furnished by : 
the Embassy of India , Jeddah , and Standing and State Haj Committees from time : 
to time. 


RECORDS 


( 1 ) Letters containing motions or any other matter sent by members. 

( 2 ) Letters addressed by non -members pertaining to matter within the pur - - 
view of the Committee. 

( 3 ) Replies sont by the Committee to members of the public, 


2022 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25, 1988 


(Part II 


- 


U 


( 4 ) Resolutions of the Committee 

forwarded to the Government. 
forwarded to the Commissioner of Police. 
forwarded to the Health Officer of the Port of Bombay . 

forwarded to the Other Authorities. 
( 5 ) Miscellaneous. 

( 6 ) Handbills , advertisements and notifications , publications published by the 
-Committee for the information of pilgrims. 

( 7) Replies received to the resolutions mentioned in No. 4. 
(8 ) Office Standing Orders. 
( 9 ) Resolutions. 
( 10 ) Acts and Rules, 
( 11 ) Correspondence papers regarding :- -- 

Pilgrim Pesses . 
Visitors Passes. 
Ostates of Pilgrims. 
Pilgrim Deposits. 
Pilgrim Passage Money . 
Immunisation against Cholera and Smallpox . 
Outgoing and Incoming pilgrim ships. 
Enquiries regarding pilgrim season . 
Complaints regarding :--- 
Thefts, cheating, etc., unsatisfactory arrangement of pilgrim ships at the 

Port of cmharkation , disembarkation , at Disinfection Shed at the 
Wharf, pilgrims Waiting Shed , Port Trust Shed and Railways. 


( 12 ) Claims for refund of deposits and passage money . 
( 13 ) Lists and correspondence regarding pilgrims repatriation. 
( 14 ) Correspondence with Musaflrkhana authorities. 
( 15 ) Correspondence regarding: - 
Appointment of Medical Officer for pilgrims and sick pilgrims sent to 

hospitals as also medical stores supplied for treatment of pilgrims 
residing the musafirkhanas. 


( 16 ) Correspondence with the authorities of Charitable Institutions in connec 
- tion with the despatch of poor pilgrims for Haj at the former s expense and also 
free distribution of food and drinks to pilgrims. 


( 17 ) Correspondence regarding : 
Issue of free permits to specified members of certain charitable bodies 

helping the pilgrims to enter the wharf, pilgrimship etc. 
( 18 ) Correspondence with Standing , State and District Haj Committees. 
( 19 ) Correspondence regarding any other matter not covered by the above , 

( 1) Preservation and Destruction of Records . — For the preservation and des 
truction of records and registers or any paper relating to accounts or administra 
tive work the rules contained in the Civil Account Code and appendices of 
-Government of India may be followed . 

( iii) No record or register of accounts or Administrative work shall be det . 
troyed except with the permission of Executive Officer and a list of the destroyed 
record or Registers shall be maintained . 


SEC. (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16, 1066 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


2023 


- 


- 


- 


PART IX 
25. Addition and alteration etc . — ( i ) The Committee shall have powers to add , 
amend , delete any of these bye- laws subject to confirmation by Central Govern 
ment. 

( ii ) Effect . — These Bye - laws shall come into force on confirmation by the 
Central Government and from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette . 

(iij ) Repeal. - When these bye -laws come into force the bye -Jaws made by 
the Port Ilaj Committee of Bombay under sub - section ( 4 ) of section 17 of the 
Port Haj Committee Act , 1932 120 ot 1432 ) shall stand repealed . 

[ No . MII - 1181 ( 45 ) / 84.] 
V . A . KIDWAI, Director . 


विदेश मंत्रालय 

नई दिल्ली 1 जुलाई, 1966 
एस0प्रो 0 2083 -~~ हज समिति अधिनियम, 1959 ( 1959 का 51 ) की धारा 18 उपधारा ( 1 ) के 
अन्तर्गत हज समिति, बम्बई द्वारा बनाई गई और इसी धारा की उपधारा ( 2 ) के अन्तर्गत केन्द्रीय सरकार 
द्वारा पुष्ट की गई निम्नलिखित उपविधियां इसके द्वारा प्रकाशित की जा रही हैं जैमा कि इसकी 
उपधारा ( 3 ) के अन्तर्गत करना होता है, यथा : - - 


भाग - - 1 


शीर्षक : - - 
1. इन उपविधियों को हज समिति उपविधियां 1959 की संज्ञा दी गई है । 
2. जब तक कि मन्दर्भ से कोई और अर्थ न निकलता हो , इन उपविधियों में 

( 1 ) अधिनियम का अर्थ हज समिति अधिनियम , 1959 ( 1959 का 51 ) होगा ; 
( 2 ) धारा का अर्थ इस अधिनियम की धारा होगा ; 

3 ) नियम का अर्थ इस अधिनियम की धारा 17 के अन्तर्गत बनाया गया कोई नियम होगा ; 

( 4 ) उपसमिति का अर्थ होगा इस अधिनियम की धारा 13 के अन्तर्गत बनाई गई कोई 
उप समिति ; 

( 5 ) अध्यक्ष , उपाध्यक्ष और सदस्य का अर्थ होगा इस समिति का अध्यक्ष, उपाध्यक्ष 
अथवा सदस्य , जो भी हो ; 

( 6 ) कार्यकारी अधिकारी का अर्थ होगा इस समिति का कार्यकारी अधिकारी ; 
( 7 ) अधीक्षक का अर्थ होगा इस समिति के कार्यालय का अधीक्षक ; 
( 8 ) लेखाधिकारी का अर्थ होगा इस ममिति के कार्यालय का लेखाधिकारी ; 
( 9 ) कर्मचारी का अर्थ है इस समिति के कार्यालय का कोई कर्मचारी सदस्य ; 

( 10 ) वापसी में यात्रियों के यात्रा का सुपए, यात्रियों की सम्पदा के रुपा अथवा यात्रियों के 
जमा रुपए से सम्बद्ध सब वापसी शामिल है ; और 

( 11) निर्धन यानी कोष का अर्थ है इस समिति के हाथ का वह कोष जो बम्बई में रके भार• 
नीय यात्रियों की सहायता और प्रत्यावर्तन के काम पर खर्च किया जाए; 


2024 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1900 / AŞADHA 25 , 1888 


[Part II 


- 


भाग - - 2 


3. उपाध्यक्ष का निर्वाचन , कार्यकाल और कार्य तथा अधिकार - - ( 1 ) अध्यक्ष के निर्वाचन 
के बाद जितनी जल्दी हो सकेगा, यह ममिति अपने सदस्यों में से दो उपाध्यक्ष चुनेगी । 


( 2 ) प्रत्येक उपाध्यक्ष उपस्थित मतदान करने वाले मदस्यों द्वारा साधारण बहुमत से निर्वा 
चित होगा । जहां दो उम्मेदवारों को बराबर मत प्राप्त होंगे वहां अध्यक्ष अपना निर्णायक मत देगा । 

( 3 ) उपाध्यक्ष अपने- अपने निर्वाचन के दिन में एक वर्ष के लिए इस पद पर रहेंगे और वे 
पुननिर्वाचन के लिए खड़े हो सकते हैं । 


( 4 ) अध्यक्ष की अनुपस्थिति में उपाध्यक्ष अध्यक्ष के वे सब काम करेगा जिनके अधिकार 
अध्यक्ष से उसे मिला हो । वह अन्य ऐसे अन्य कार्य भी करेगा जिनका अधिकार समय - समय पर अध्यक्ष 
से उसे मिलते रहे । 

___ ( 5 ) कोई उपाध्यक्ष अगर इम समिति का सदस्य नहीं रहता तो वह उपाध्यक्ष के पद पर भी 
नहीं रहेगा । 

( 6 ) कोई उपाध्यक्ष एक महीने का नोटिम देकर अपने पद से त्यागपत्र दे सकता है । 

( 7 ) किसी उपाध्यक्ष को अविश्वास प्रस्ताव द्वारा उमके पद से हटाया जा सकता है , जो एक 
विशेष बैठक में समिति के कूल सदस्यों में से कम - से -कम दो -तिहाई मदस्यों द्वारा पास किया गया हो । 
इस प्रकार के प्रस्ताव पास होने के समय से ही वह उपाध्यक्ष पदच्युत समझा जाएगा । 

( 8 ) उपाध्यक्ष का पद यदि कभी अकस्मात् खाली हुआ तो वह वैमे ही भरा जाएगा जैसे 
कि उपाध्यक्ष का चुनाव होता है । 

( 9 ) कोई भी व्यक्ति जो इस तरह अकस्मात रिक्त हुए स्थान पर आएगा वह जिस सदस्य 
के स्थान पर निर्वाचित होगा उसके कार्यकाल की शेष अवधि के लिए ही उस पद पर रहेगा । ऐसा कोई 
व्यक्ति पुनर्निर्वाचन के लिए खड़ा हो सकेगा । 


भाब - --- 3 


4. बैठक का तरीका, नोटिस प्रादि - ( 1 ) समिति की सभी साधारण बैठकें अधिनियम की धारा 
10 ( 1 ) की शतों के अधीन सामान्यतः समिति के कार्यलय में महीने के किसी भी कार्य दिवस को होगी । 


( 2 ) प्रत्येक साधारण बैठक का नोटिम कार्यकारी अधिकारी द्वारा दस्ती अथवा डाक से 
हरेक सदस्य को उसके ज्ञात पते पर बैठक की तारीख से कम से कम 15 दिन पहले भेज दिया जाएगा , 
विचारणीय विषयों के कागज बाद में भी भेजे जा सकते है । 

( 3 ) समिति की विशेष बैठक हज समिति नियम , 1963 के नियम 10 के उपनियम ( 1 ) के 
उपबन्ध में निर्धारित रीति से बुलाई जाएगी । 

( 4 ) स्थगित बैठक अथवा विशेष बैठक का नोटिस अध्यक्ष द्वारा निश्चित किए गए किसी भी 
तरीक़े से बैठक की तारीख से कम- से -कम 24 घंटे पहले दिया जाएगा । 


( 5 ) बैठक के हरेक नोटिस में बैठक के स्थान, समय और तारीख का स्पष्ट उल्लेख होगा और 
उसके क्या काम होगा इसका भी । 


IRC . ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1883 


2025 


( vi ) बठक की सभी कार्रवाई अंग्रेजी में होगी या उर्दू में । लेकिन अगर कोई सदस्य चाहे तो 
वह हिन्दी में भी बोल सकता है । 

( vii ) समिति की सभी बैठकों की अध्यक्षता अध्यक्ष करेगा । अध्यक्ष की अनुपस्थिति में अध्यक्ष 
द्वारा नामजद उपाध्यक्ष और अगर वह भी अनुपस्थित हो तो दूसरा उपाध्यक्ष और दूसरे उपाध्यक्ष के भी 
अनपस्थित होने पर उपस्थित और मतदाता मदस्यों द्वारा निर्वाचित कोई अन्य सवस्य बैठकों की अध्यक्षता 
करेगा । 

( viii ) साधारण बैठक में कार्यसूची में बताए मामलों पर ही विचार किया जा सकेगा किन्तु 
हज ममिति नियम 1963 के नियम 11 ( 4 ) की शर्तों के अनुसार अध्यक्ष कोई अन्य विषय भी 
विचारार्थ स्वीकार कर सकता है या अध्यक्ष स्वयं रख सकता है । 

(ix ) विशेष बैठक में केवल वही काम होगा जो उम बैठक की कार्य सूची में शामिल किया 
गया हो । 

उपस्थित और मतदान करने वाले अधिकांश सदस्यों की स्वीकृति से कोई बैठक समय - समय पर 
उसी दिन किसी अन्य समय के लिए अथवा किसी अन्य दिन के लिए स्थगित की जा सकती है । इस तरह 
की स्थगित बैठक में केवल वे विषय ही रखे जा सकेंगे और उन्हीं पर विचार किया जा सकेगा जो बकाया 
रह गए हों । 

अगर इस तरह की किसी स्थगित बैठक में किन्हीं बजट अनुमानों या संशोधित अनुमानो पर 
विचार हो रहा हो तो , नया प्रस्ताव अथवा परिवर्तन का प्रस्ताव रखा जा सकता है और उस पर विचार 
हो सकता है । 


5. बैठकों का कार्य संचालन : - ( 1 ) किसी बैठक में होने वाले काम का क्रम कार्य-सूची में 
अधिसूचित कर दिया जाएगा । 


अगर कोई सदस्य किसी विषय विशेष को प्राथमिकता देना चाहता हो और उपस्थित अधिकांश 
सदस्य ऐसा करने का निश्चय कर ले तो पीठासीन अधिकारी इस प्रकार की प्राथमिकता दे सकता है । 


( 2 ) औचित्य प्रश्न उठाए जाने पर वक्ता सदस्य बोलना बन्द कर देगा और तब तक नहीं 
बोलेगा जब तक कि पीठासीन अधिकारी औचित्य प्रश्न का निर्णय न कर ले । किन्त , पीठासीन अधिकारी 
वक्ता सदस्य को उठाए गए औचित्य प्रश्न का उत्तर देने की अनुमति दे सकता है । 

( 3 ) जब पीठासीन अधिकारी बोलना शुरू कर दे तो बक्ता मदम्य बोलना बन्द कर देगा और 
अपनी जगह बैट जाएगा । 

( 4 ) बैठक में व्यवस्था बनाए रखने की जिम्मेवारी पीठासीन अधिकारी की होगी और उसकी 
समझ में जिम किसी सदस्य का आचरण अव्यवस्थित प्रौर बैठक की शालीनता के अनुरुप न हो उसे वह 
तुरन्त बैठक से चले जाने के लिए कह सकता है । वह सदस्य तुरन्त आदेश का पालन करेगा और उस बैठक 
में फिर नहीं आएगा । अगर कोई सदस्य चल जाने से इंकार करे तो पीठासीन अधिकारी समिति की राय से 
तीन बैठकों के लिए अथवा तीन महीने की अवधि के लिए , जो भी ज्यादा हो , न आने को कह सकता है 
और वह सदस्य तदनुसार आदेश का पालन करेगा । 


2026 


TIIL GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 /ASADJ1A 25 , 1888 


[PART II 


ऐसा सदस्य इस अवधि में किमी भी उपसमिति में काम नहीं कर सकेगा जिनका वह मदस्य हो 
जब तक कि अध्यक्ष उम मदस्य मे लिखित क्षमा याचना करने पर समिति की राय से उस पर में यह 
प्रायोग्यता न हटा ले । 


( 5 ) गम्भीर अव्यवस्था हो जाने पर पीठासीन अधिकारी अधिक -से- अधिक तीन दिन के लिए 
बैठक स्थगित कर सकता है । 

6. ( 1 ) प्रत्येक मौलिक मकल्प और प्रस्ताव अंग्रेजी अथवा उर्दू में माफ माफ लिखा या छपा 
होना चाहिए और बैठक में पढ़ा जाना चाहिए और प्रस्तावक प्रस्ताव के समर्थन में बोल सकता है तथा 
उसे पीठासीन अधिकारी को दे देगा । बैठक में विचार होने से पहले प्रत्येक प्रस्ताव का समर्थन होना 
जरूरी है । समर्थक समर्थन करते समय प्रस्ताव के पक्ष में बोल सकता है । 

( 2 ) अगर कोई मदस्य किसी प्रस्ताव का नोटिस देकर स्वयं प्रस्ताव नहीं रखता या सम्यक 
रूप से अधिकृत कोई सदस्य ( इस तरह किया गया लिखित अधिकार-पत्र बैठक के ममय पीठासीन 
अधिकारी को दिया जाएगा ) उम प्रस्ताव को नहीं रखता तो यह ममझा जाएगा कि प्रस्ताव गिर गया है 
लेकिन अगर सम्बद्ध सदस्य बैठक में भाग न ले सकने की अपनी असामर्थ्य की सूचना दे दे तो उस प्रस्ताव 
पर विचार अगली बैठक के लिए स्थगित कर दिया जाएगा जब तक कि अध्यक्ष अन्यथा निर्देश न दे । 

7. संशोधन : - - जब कोई प्रस्ताव रखा जा चुके और उसका समर्थन किया जा चुके तब तक 
उसका कोई संशोधन रखा जा सकता है । अगर संशोधन स्वीकार कर लिया जाए तो इस तरह संशोधित 
प्रस्ताव मौलिक प्रस्ताव का रूप ग्रहण कर लेगा । 

8. प्रस्ताव वापिस लेमा ---- कोई भी प्रस्ताव अथवा संगोधन एक बार रखे जाने के बाद और 
समर्थन किए जाने के बाद मिर्फ समिति की अनुमति से ही वापिस लिया जा सकता है । 

9. प्रस्ताव का विभाजन : - - पीठासीन अधिकारी किसी भी प्रस्ताव को दो या दो से अधिक 
प्रस्तावों में बांट सकता है, अगर उमके विचार से प्रस्ताव इतना जटिल है कि जिसकी वजह से कोई उलझन 
पैदा हो सकती है तो , और जिस क्रम से ठीक समझे मतदान के लिए रख सकता है । 


10. स्थगन प्रस्ताव : -- विचार-विमर्श स्थगित करने का प्रस्ताव रखे जाने पर पीठासीन 
अधिकारी उपस्थित सदस्यों को उमके समर्थन में अथवा विरोध में बोलने के लिए उपयुक्त समय देने के 
बाद उसे मतदान के लिए रखेगा । 


जब कभी कोई सदस्य बोल रहा होगा उस समय इस तरह का कोई प्रस्ताव नहीं रखा जाएगा । 


11. मतवान का तरीका : - - पीठासीन अधिकारी प्रत्येक प्रस्ताव को अथवा संशोधन को समिति 
के मत के लिए रख्नेगा । मतदान हाथ उठा कर किया जाएगा । 


अगर कोई सदस्य मतदान के लिए कहेगा तो , सम्बद्ध प्रश्न के समर्थन में और विरोध में मतदान 
करने वालों के नाम , जिनमें उन लोगों के नाम भी होंगे जिन्होंने मतदान में भाग नहीं लिया हो , पीठासीन 
अधिकारी रिकार्ड कर लेगा । 

मतदान का परिणाम पीठासीन अधिकारी द्वारा घोषित किया जाए और उस पर कोई आपत्ति 
नहीं कर सकेगा । कार्यक्त्त पुस्तिका में दर्ज मतदान का परिणाम ही परिणाम का अन्तिम प्रमाण होगा । 

12. ऐसे प्रश्न के लिए प्रस्ताव जो पहले ही निबटाया जा चुका हो :----किसी ऐसे प्रश्न के बारे 
में जो पहले निबटाया जा चुका हो , कोई प्रस्ताव बैठक के सामने नहीं रखा जा सकेगा जब तक कि उसके 


SEC. 3(ii )] 


THE GAZETTE. OF INDIA : JULY 16, 1966/ ASADHA 25 , 1888 


2027 


निबटारे की तारीख को कम - से -कम तीन महीने न हो गए हों , किन्तु अगर कम- से -कम पांच सदस्य समिति 
से इस पर पुनः विचार करने की लिखित प में मांग करें , तो समिति उसी प्रपन पर पुनः विचार कर 
सकती है और निर्णय ले सकती है । 


13. उपसमिति : -- - (i ) समिति कोई उप -ममिति या उप - समितियां नियुक्त कर सकती है 
और जितने ठीक मममे उममें मदस्य रख सकती है तथा ममिति की बैठक की कार्य- सूची के किमी 
भी सवाल को जांच करके रिपोर्ट देने के लिए सौंप सकती है । 

( ii ) उन मामलों को छोड़कर जबकि किसी उप - ममिति का अध्यक्ष समिति द्वारा नियुक्त 
किया गया हो , किसी भी उप -समिति का पीठासीन अधिकारी नियुक्त करने के लिए अधिमान्यता का 
निम्नलिखित क्रम रहेगा : 

( क ) ममिति का अध्यक्ष, अगर वह उस उप -समिति का सदस्य हो । 
( ख ) समिति का उपाध्यक्ष , अगर वह उस उप - समिति का मदस्य हो । 
( ग ) कोई एक उपाध्यक्ष ( अगर दोनों सदस्य हैं ) जिसे उस उप- समिति के सदस्य चुन लें । 
( घ ) उम उप - समिति का कोई सदस्य जिसे अन्य सदस्य चुन लें समिति की बठकों से 

मम्बद्ध सागे अ - विधियां जहां तक सम्भव होगा उप -ममितियों की बैठकों पर भी 

लागु होगी : 
किन्तु , किसी उम - पमिति को बैठकों में कियो प्रातात्र अथवा संगोधन के समर्थन की पाव 
श्यकता नहीं । 


हरेक उप - समिति समिति द्वारा निर्धारित अवधि में उस प्रश्न पर अपनी रिपोर्ट समिति को दे 
देगी जो उसे सौंपा गया होगा । 

14. कार्यवत्त : - - (i ) प्रत्येक बैठक में उपस्थित सदस्यों के नाम और उसका कार्यवृत्त 
सी एक किताब में दर्ज करेगा जो इसी काम के लिए दी जाएगी । यह कार्यवृत्त तैयार करने 
के बाद बैठक के दिन ही अथवा उसके बाद जितनी जल्दी सम्भव होगा इस किताब में दर्ज कर दिया 
जाएगा । 


कार्यवन की प्रतियां संबद्ध बैठक की तारीख से मान दिन के भीतर - भीतर सदस्यों को 
भेज दी जाएंगी । 

( iji ) प्रत्येक बैठक का कार्यवत्त अगली बैठक के सामने रखा जाएगा जो यह समझा जाएगा 
कि उन्हें पढ़ लिया गया है, जब तक कि उपस्थित अधिकांश सदस्य उसे फिर से पढ़ने के लिए न कहें , और 
पीठासीन अधिकारी उपस्थित अधिकांश मदस्यों की गय से इस आगामी बैठक में इस कार्यवृत्त 
पर हस्ताक्षर करेगा । 

। अगर कोई मदस्य यह आपत्ति उठाए कि कार्यवृत्त गलत या अधूरी तरह से रिकार्ड किया गया 
है तो , बैठक की राय जानने के बाद, पीठामीन अधिकारी उममें जो उचित समझे मंशोधन करे और फिर 
उम पर हस्ताक्षर कर देगा । 

( iv ) ममिति का कोई भी मदम्य कार्यालय खुला रहने के समय ममिति के कार्यालय में 
समिति की कार्यवृत्त - पुस्तिका की निःशुल्क जाच कर सकेगा । 

( v ) अध्यक्ष 5/ - रु० देने पर किसी भी मुसलमान को हज ममिति की किसी भी बैठक के 
कार्यवृत्ति की जांच की इजाजत दे मकना हैं । 


2028 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


[ PART II - 


भाग IV 
___ 16. नियम-पुस्तिकाओं आदि का प्रकाशम : -- ( i) समिति यात्रियों को यात्री यातायात 
के सभी मामलों पर सूचना देने और समझाने के उद्देश्य से नियम पुस्तिकाएं , लघु पुस्तिका पैंफ्लेट्स 
अथवा इश्तहार प्रकाशित कर सकती है । 

( i ) ये प्रकाशन उन विभिन्न भाषाओं में प्रकाशित किए जा सकते हैं जिन्हें देश के विभिन्न 
भागों के लोग सामान्यतः समझते हैं । 

( ii ) जहाज़ के कार्यक्रम के बारे में , जहाज और हवाई जहाज़ के समय में परिवर्तन होने 
के बारे में विदेश मुद्रा से संबद्ध नियम और विनियमों के बारे में आपत्ति-नियमों के बारे में , यात्रियों 
के स्वास्थ्य संबंधी प्रतिबंधों और अधिनियम की धारा 9 ( ख ) की शर्तों के अनुसार यात्रियों की 
जानकारी के लिए फेर- बदल आदि के साथ पैसेज की बकिंग के बारे में समिति प्रेस नोट और प्रेस 
बंटन जारी कर सकती है । 


भाग 1 


17. यात्रियों का कल्याण : - - (i ) समिति रास्ते में यात्रियों में कपड़ा और खाद्यान्न 
बोटने का काम कर सकती है और हेदज . ज में रहने के दौरान उनके इस्तेमाल के लिए सऊदी अरब ले 
जा सकती है जैसा कि सऊदी अरब सरकार समय- समय पर निर्धारित करती रहे । 

(ii) समिति रुके हुए यात्रियों को चिकित्सा सुविधाएं दे सकती है 

( iii ) समिति यात्रियों के लिए भारत में उनके निवास के स्थान से आने और वहां जाने के 
प्रावश्यक प्रबंध भी कर सकती है । 

( iv ) समिति बंबई में यात्रियों को सहायता देने और उनका मार्ग-दर्शन करने के लिए आवश्यक 
प्रबंध कर सकती है । । 

( v ) यात्रियों को टीका लगने और अंतिम रूप से डाक्टरी जांच कराने आदि के तथा सरकार 
द्वारा लगाए इसी तरह के अन्य प्रतिबंधों के लिए ममिति प्रबंध करेगी । 

( vi ) समिति रास्ते में यात्रियों के उचित स्थान का प्रबंध करेगी । 

इन मदों पर जो खर्च पाएगा वह हज समिति के कल्याण कोष में अथवा हज कोष में दिया 
जाएगा और इस अधिनियम की धारा 14 में बताई गई राशि उसके नाम खाते डाली जाएगी । 


18. निर्षन यात्रियों का वेशप्रत्यावर्तन : - - समिति ऐसे गरीब भारतीय हज यात्रियों को 
सहायता देगी और उन्हें देशप्रत्यावर्तित करेगी जिन्हें हज यात्रा से लौटने के बाद फौरन ही बम्बई में 
रुकना पड़ गया हो । 

19 . एसी संपत्ति जिस पर किसी का दावा न हो : - - समिति यात्रियों की किसी भी ऐसी 
संपत्ति पर अपना दावा कर सकेगी जिसका कोई दावेदार न हो और जो रेलवे स्टेशन पर , कस्टम 
शेड में , व्हाप्त में , यात्रियों के जहाज पर , हवाई अड्डे पर अथवा किसी मुसाफिर खाने में पड़ी 
हो । अगर नोटिस देने के छ: महीने बाद तक कोई इस प्रकार की संपत्ति को लेने न पाए तो उसे 
सार्वजनिक नीलामी द्वारा बेच दिया जाएगा और उसे बेचकर जो रकम पाएगी वह हज कोष के 
खाते में जमा कर दी जाएगी । 


DEC . 8( 41) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 /AŞADHA 25 , 1888 


2029 


भाग 6 


20. कार्यालय की कार्यप्रणाली : - - ( 1 ) प्रशासनिक सुविधा और काम जल्दी निबटाने के 
लिए ग्राम पसाचार का काम लेखे के काम से अलग रखा जा सकता है और उसको देख -रेख का भी अलग 
प्रबंध किय जा सकता है । 


( ii ) प्रशासन अनुभाग अधीक्षक की सीधी देखरेख में रहेगा और यात्रियों के आवागमन के 
सभी मामलों को निबट एगा, जैसे , यात्रियों के पास आदि तैयार करना, जहाज और हवाई यात्रा तथा 
कस्टम विनियम तैयार करना, मजदूरों का प्रबंध करना, जहाज पर और हवाई अड्डे पर प्रबन्ध करना , 
स्वयं - सेवकों का , तरह-तरह की पूछताछों का प्रबन्ध करना , प्रकाशन करना , जगह का इन्तजाम करना , 
यात्रियों को चढ़ाना और उतारना तथा अन्य सामान्य काम-काज करना । 

( iii ) लेखा अनुभाग लेखाधिकारी के सीधे अधीक्षण में होगा और लेखा , चेतन और भत्ते , 
निर्वाह निधि तथा कार्यालय सिब्बदी , पंजी नियोजन , मुंजी नियोजन पर ब्याज, आयकर , वापसी - - सभी 
जमा और भुगतान बजट , लेखापरीक्षा की रिपोर्ट , देशप्रत्यावर्तन , वितीय सहायता और रुका हुआ स्टाक , 
कपड़ा और खाद्यान्न के वितरण से संबद्ध सभी मामले तथा हवाई किराया ले वा - - इन सभी से संबस 
मामलों को निबटाए । 

( iv ) कार्यालय का काम सही तरीके और व्यवस्थित रीति से चले , इसके लिए कार्यालय 
अधीक्षक और लेखाअधिकारी दोनों ही कार्यकारी अधिकारी को जवाबदेह होंगे । कार्यालय 
अधीक्षक प्रशासन और लेखा अनुभाग की सामान्य देख -रेख रखेगा । सभी कागज , दस्तावेज और 
पत्राचार अधीक्षक के जरिए कार्यकारी अधिकारी के पास उसके देखने के लिए आदेशों के लिए भेजे 
जाएंगे । 

( vi ) कार्यकारी प्रधिकारी जब एक सप्ताह से ज्यादा की छुट्टी पर होगा उप अवधि के लिए 
अध्यक्ष इस स्थान पर आवश्यक अपायी नियुक्ति कर सकता है और स्थानापन्न कार्यकारी अधिकारी 
के रूप में कार्य करने वाला व्यक्ति दस्तावेजों और महत्वपूर्ण कागजों पर तया समझौतों पर हस्ताक्षर 
कर सकता है । 

( vii ) जो भी पैसा पाएगा वह सभी नियमित रूप से और ठीक तरह से हज कोष में जमा 
किया जाएगा और उसी से सारे भुगतान किए जाएंगे । 

viii ) कार्यालय के रोजमर्राह के खर्च के लिए खजान्ची एक निश्चित राशि अपने पास 
रख सकता है जिसका निश्चय हर वर्ष समिति अपनी आवश्यकताओं के अनुरूप करेगी । 

( ix ) खजान्ची समिति द्वारा निश्चित राशि का नकद सिक्यूरिटी देगा या उतने का सिक्यूरिटी 
बांड भरेगा । 


21. सिम्बवी : -- (i ) समिति के कार्यालय की सिंबदी नियनों में निर्धारित सेवा की शर्तो 
के अनुरूप होगी । 

( i) सिन्बदी से संबद्ध सभी मामले भारत सरकार के मूलभूत नियमों के तथा पूरक नियमों 
के अनुसार तय किए जा सकते हैं । 

( iii ) समिति के कर्मचारियों को उतना ही भत्ता मिलेगा जितना कि बंबई में रहने वाले 
केंद्रीय सरकार के कर्मचारियों को मिलता है । समिति के कर्मचारियों को प्रानरेरियम ,निर्वाह निधि , 


2020 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . JULY 16, 1966/ ASADHA 25 , 1888 


PART II -- 


उपदान, छुट्टियों में यात्रा संबंधी रियायतें , डाक्टरी सहायता और वे सब भत्ते मिलेगी जो समिति 
केंद्र सरकार की अनुमति से समय - समय पर स्वीकार करती रहे । 

( iv ) समिति के कार्यालय के खुलने का समय सुबह 10 . 30 बजे से शाम 5 . 30 बजे तक 
होगा और 1 तथा 2 बजे के बीच में प्राधे घंटे का लंच रहेगा । 

जब कभी जरूरत होगी ममिति के कार्यालय में काम करने वाले कर्मचारियों को देर तक बैठ कर 
काम करना होगा । 

( v ) समिति अपने कार्यालय की छुट्टियों की एक सूची घोषित करेगी और प्राय वे ही छट्टियां 
रखेगी जो भारत सरकार अपने कार्यालयों के लिए रखती है । 


भाग 7 


22. संविधाएं : - - (i ) 25 रु० से अधिक के किसी प्रापातिक खर्च अथवा संविदा को 
कार्य रूप देने या प्रचार आदि करने के लिए कार्यकारी अधिकारी कुटेशन मांगेगा जैसा कि अधिनियम 
एवं नियमों के अधीन समिति के निर्धारित कार्यों के अंतर्गत करना होता है । 

(ii ) ऐसे सभी कुटेशन मोहरबंद लिफाफे में मांगे जाएंगे और कार्यकारी अधिकारी जैसे 
ठीक समझेगा उन्हें खोलेगा । खास - खास मामलों में , जबकि कोई छोटा काम जल्दी करना हो वहाँ 
कार्यकारी अधिकारी टेन्डरों से जमानी कुटेशन ले सकता है । 

( iii ) काम बढ़िया और जल्दी हो, इसके लिए कार्यकारी अधिकारी जैसा ठीक समझे किसी 
टेंडर में सबसे कम कुटेशन की बजाय अपेक्षाकृत ऊंचे कुटेशन को स्वीकार कर सकता है । 

(iv ) कार्यकारी अधिकारी बिक्रेताओं मे टेंडर मांगे बिना ही 251 - २० की अनुमानित लागत 
का काम पूरा करवा सकता है । 


भाग 8 


23. बजट : --- ( i ) समिति के उपाय एवं साधन तथा साल भर में होने वाले खर्च के वार्षिक 
एवं पूरक अनुमान तैयार करते समय , भारत सरकार के वित्तीय नियमों में निर्धारित सिद्धांतों का 
अनुसरण किया जाना चाहिए । 

(ii ) अधिकारिक वर्ष 1 अप्रैल से शुरू होगा और 31 मार्च को बंद होगा । 


24. रिकार्स :-- - ( i ) समिति के कार्यालय में निम्नलिखित रजिस्टर और रिकार्ड रखे जाएंगे 
और प्रत्येक सदस्य संदर्भ के लिए उन्हें देख सकेगा । 


रजिस्टर 


( 1 ) कार्यवृत्त - पुस्तिका 
( 2 ) बेकार माल रजिस्टर 
( 3) बाहरी पत्नाचार रजिस्टर 


SEC. (ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16, 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


2035 


( 4 ) प्रांतरिक पन्नाचार रजिस्टर 
( 5 ) टिकट खाता रजिस्टर जिसमें नीचे लिखी बातें दिखाई गई हों : 

( क ) मासिक हिमाब 
( ख ) स्टाक और 

( ग ) रोजाना का हिमाब 
( 6 ) स्टेशनरी रजिस्टर 
( 7 ) फार्मों का रजिस्टर 
( 8 ) विना बसियत संपत्ति का रजिस्टर ( यात्रियों की संपत्ति ) 
( 9 ) लावारसी संपत्ति रजिस्टर 
( 10 ) यात्रियों को जारी किए गए पासों का रजिस्टर 
( 11 ) यानी जहाजों पर जाने वाले मुलाकातियों का रजिस्टर 
( 12 ) छोटी छोटी चीजों की सप्लाई का रजिस्टर 
( 13) अधिकारियों को दिए जाने वाले व्योरों और वापसियों का जस्टर 
( 14 ) कर्मचारियों की उपस्थिति का रजिस्टर 
( 15 ) भारतीय राजदूतावास , जेदा, तथा स्थायी और राज्य हज समितियों द्वारा समय - समय 

पर कार्य सूची में रखे जाने वाले गाइडों और उनके नौकरों का रजिस्टर । 


रिकार्ड 


. ( 1 ) ऐसे पन्न जिनमें प्रस्ताव हों तथा सदस्यों द्वारा भेजी गयी कोई अन्य सामग्री 
( 2 ) गैर- सदस्यों को भेजे गए ऐसे पत्र जो समिति के दायरे में आने वाले मामलों से 

मंबंध रखते हों 
( 3 ) ममिति द्वारा जनता के सदस्यों को भेजे गए जवाब 
( 4 ) ममिति के प्रस्ताव जो - -- 

मरकार को भेजे गए हों 
कमिश्नर अाफ़ पलिस को भेजे गए हों 
बंबई बंदरगाह के स्वास्थ्य अधिकारी को भेजे गए हों 

अन्य अधिकारियों को भेजे गए हों 
( 5 ) विविध 
( 6 ) यात्रियों की सूचना के लिए समिति द्वारा प्रकाशित इश्तहार, विज्ञापन और 

अधिसूचनाएं और प्रकाशन । 
( 7 ) ऊपर 4 में बताए गए प्रस्ताबों के उत्तर 
( 8 ) कार्यालय के स्थायी आदेश 
( 9 ) प्रस्ताव 
( 10 ) अधिनियम और नियम 


2032 


THE CON 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25, 1888 


[Part 1] -- 


( 11 ) निम्नलिखित के बारे में पत्राचार 

यात्रियों के पास 
मुलाकातियों के पास 
यात्रियों की संपत्ति 
यात्रियों की जमा 
यात्रियों के रास्ते का रुपया 
हैजे और चेचक से मुक्ति 
आने-जाने वाले यात्री जहाज 

यात्री-मौसम के बारे में पूछताछ । 
निम्नलिखित बातों के बारे में शिकायतें : 

पोरी, धोखाधड़ी आदि , यात्री जहाज छूटने और पहंचने के बंदरगाह पर , 
व्याप्त पर डिसइन्फेक्शन शेड में , यात्रियों के पारामगाह में , पोर्ट ट्रस्ट 

शेड और रेलवे में असंतोषजनक प्रबंध 
( 12 ) जमा और पैसेज का धन की वापसी का दावे 
( 13 ) यात्रियों के देशप्रत्यावर्तन विषयक सूची और पत्राचार 
( 14 ) मुसाफिर खाने अधिकारियों के साथ पत्राचार 
( 15 ) निम्नलिखित बातों के बारे में पत्राचार : -- 

अस्पताल में भेजे गए यात्रियों और बीमा यात्रियों के लिए मेडिकल आफीसर 
की नियुक्ति तथा मुसाफिरखानों में रहने वाले यात्रियों के उपचार के लिए 
दी गई दवाइयां आदि । 


( 16 ) धर्मार्थ संस्थानों के खर्च पर गरीव यात्रियों को हज के लिए भेजने और यात्रियों को 

मुफ्त खाना-पीना देने के लिए इन संस्थाओं के अधिकारियों के साथ लिखा- पढ़ी 

करना । 
( 17 ) निम्नलिखित बातों के बारे में पन्नाचार 

कुछ धर्मार्थ संस्थाओं के खास - खास सदस्यों को मुफ्त परमिट देना जो यात्रियों 

को जहाज- घाट , यात्री जहाज अादि पर जाने में सहायता करते हों । 
( 18 ) स्थायी, राज्य और जिला समितियों के साथ पन्नाधार 
( 19) किसी भी ऐसे अन्य मामले के बारे में पत्राचार जो ऊपर बताए गए शीर्षकों के 

अंतर्गत न प्राप्ता हो । 


रिकाका रक्षण और विष्स 
रिका और रजिस्टरों को अथवा लेखा या प्रशासनिक कार्य से संबब किसी अन्य 
कागज को हिफाजत से रखने के विषय में भारत सरकार के सिविल अकाउन्ट कोड 
एवं परिशिष्ट में निहित नियमों का पालन किया जाना चाहिए । 

लेखा अथवा प्रशासनिक कार्य का कोई भी रिकार्ड या रजिस्टर कार्यकारी 
अधिकारी की इजाजत के बिना नष्ट महीं किया जाएगा तथा नष्ट किए गए 
रिकार्ड मथवा रजिस्टरों की एक सूची रखी जाएगी 


SEC. $( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


c33 


भाग 9 
25. परिवर्धन एवं परिवर्तन : - - समिति , केंद्र सरकार की स्वीकृति से , इनमें से कोई भी 
उपविधि जोड़ सकती है, बदल सकती है, निकल सकती है । 

प्रभविष्णुता : - - ये उपविधियो, केंद्र सरकार से पुष्टि मिल जाने पर और सरकारी राजपत्र 
में प्रकाशित होने की तारीख से लागू हो जाएंगी । 

निरसन : - जब ये उपविधियां लागू हो जाएंगी तब बई की पोर्ट हज समिति द्वारा 
पोर्ट हज समिति अधिनियम , 1932 ( 1932 का 20 ) की धारा 17 को उपधारा ( 4 ) के अंतर्गत 
बनाई गई उपविधियाँ निरसित हो जाएंगी । 

[ No. II -II81 ( 45)/64 .] 
बी० ए० किदवई , 

निदेशक । 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi , the 6th July 1966 
S . 0 . 2084...--In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 2 ) of article 77 
of the Contstitution , the President hereby makes the following rules further to 
amend the Authentication (Orders and other Instruments) Rules , 1958 , namely : 

___ 1. ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Authentication ( Orders and other Instru 
ments ) Seventh Amendment Rules, 1966 . 

(2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the official 
Gazette . 

2 . Ia clause (1 ) of rulc 2 of the Authentication (Orders and other Instru 
ments ) Rules, 1958 , after the words " Assistant Educational Adviser " the words 
" or the Statistical Officer " shall be inserted. 

[ No. 3 / 7 / 66 - Pub .I.] 
FATEH SINGH, Jt. Secy . 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 6th July 1986 
S . O . 2085 . — In the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Home Affairs No . F. 2 / 3 / 66 - UTLdated the 10th June, 1966, published as S. O . 1786 , 
at page 1701 of the Gazette of India Part II, section 3 , sub - section ( li ) , dated 
the 18th June, 1966, 
tor " sub- paragraph 4 ", read "sub - paragraph ( 2 ) of paragraph 4 ". 

[ No. F. 2 / 3 / 66- UTL. ] 
P. N. VASUDEVAN, Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 30th June 1966 
S . O . 2086. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution and of all other powers enabling him in that behalf, the 
President here makes the following rules, namely : 

1. Short title and commencement . -- ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Ministry 
of Finance, Department of Expenditure ( Recruitment of Directors ) Rules , 1966. 

( 2 ) They shall come into force at once . 


2034 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966/ ASADHA 25 , 1888 


[Part II 


2. Number , Classification and Scale of pay. The number of the posts , their 
classification and the scale of pay attached thereto shall be as specified in columns 
2 to 4 of the Schedule hereto annexed . 

3 . Method of recruitment, Age Ilmit, Qualifications etc . The method of re 
cruitment to the said posts , age limit, qualifications and other matters relating to 
the posts shall be as specified in columns 5 to 13 of the said Schedule . 

4 . Disqualifications. — ( 1 ) No person who has more than one wife living or who 
having a spouse living, marries in any case in which such marriage is void by 
reason of its taking place during the life -time of the spouse, shall be eligible for 
appointment to the post specified in the said Schedule ; 

( 2 ) no woman whose marriage is void by reason of the husband having a wife 
living at the time of such marriage, or who has married a person who has a 
wife living at the time of such marriage , shall be eligible for appointment to 
the post specified in the said Schedule : 

Provided that the Central Government may , if satisfied that there are special 
grounds for so ordering , exempt any person from the operation of this rule . 


SCHEDULE 
Recruilment rules for the posts of Director in the Ministry of Finance ( Department of Expenditure ) 


classification 


Name of 
post 


No, of 
posts 


Scale 
of pay 


Whether 
selection 
post or 
non -se 
lection 
post 


Age limit Educational Whether Peric 
for direct and age and of pro - 
recruits other qua - educational bation 

lifications qualifications if any 
required prescribed 
for direct for the di 
recruits rect recruits 

will apply in 

the case of 
promotees 


Method In case of If a Circum 
of rcctt. rectt , by pro DPC stances in 
whether motion de - exists which 
by direct putation /trans - what is U . P . S . C . 

rectt . fer , grades its com - is to be 
or by pro - from which position consulted 
motion or promotion 

in mak 
by deputa - deputation / 

ing rec 
tion / trans- transfer to 

ruitment 
fer & percen - be made 

tage of the 
Yacancies 
to be filled 
by various 
methods 


,OF 


9 


το 


11 


12 


13 


A:,„Y16, 


Director 


One 


General 
Central 
Service 
Class I 
Gazetted 


YAS 


Rs. 1800 " Not Appli- Not Ap - Not Ap- Not Appli - - Not Ap- By trans- Transfer on Not Ap As 

- 100 cable plicable plicable plicable T plicable fer on deputation . plicable required 
2000 

de Suitable 

under the 
putation officers of 

rules 
the I .AS. or 
Central Set 
vices Class I 
period of depu 
tation ordi 
narily not ex 
ceeding 5 
years 


EFF 


125, 


[No. 1(7 ) E . I. ( A )/ 66 ] 
R . P . SAKSENA Under Secy . 


2035 


2036 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / AŞADHA 28 , 1888 


[PART II 


(Department of Economio Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 7th July 1966 
S .O . 2087. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) , the Central Government, on the recommen 
dation of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that the provisions of sub 
clauses ( 1) and ( 11 ) of clause ( c ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the suid 
Act shall not apply to the Frontier Bank Ltd ., New Delhi, till the 7th June 1967 
or till the date of its conversion into a non -banking company / winding up of its 
affairs , whichever is earlier , in so far as the said provisions prohibit Its Chief 
Executive Officer from being the Managing Director of the Gola Private Ltd . 

[No. F . 15 (5 ) -BC / 66 .] 


New Delhi, the 8th July 1966 
Statembeat of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India as on the Ist July 1966 

BANKING DEPARTMENT 


Sec.3(11) 


SO , 2088 


LIABILITIES 


R & 


ASETS 


K 


Capital Paid Up 


. . . . . . 


5,00,00,000 


30 , 42,01,000 


Note . 
Rupee Coin 
Smal Coin 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 


5 ,05 ,000 


Reserve Puod 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


80 ,00 ,02,000 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


2 , 45 , 000 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JULY16,1966/ASADHA25,1888 


National Agricultural 

Operations ) Fuod 


Credit ( Long 
. . . 


(Long 10. 


Tern 
. . 


115,00,00,000 


. 


. 


. 


103 , 19 , 19, 000 


Bills Purchased and Discounted : 

( ) Intema! . . . . 
(6) External . . . . 

( ) Government Treasury Bills . 
Balancer Held Abroad . . . 
Investments ** . . . 
Lotos and Adylucts to in 


National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) Fuod 


16,00,00,000 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


19 , 13 ,94 ,000 


443 , 97 ,08, 000 


National Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) 

Find 


20 ,00 , 00 .000 


Central Government 


, 


. 


. 


. 


. 


f ) State Goverteseots 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1892,35, 000 


2037 


2938 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs . 


Dapodita : 

Loans and advance to : 
( a ) Government 

Scheduled Bontot . . 

64 , 30 , 000 
(5 ) State Co -operative Bankast . . . 148,72,75, 000 
(ö ) Other . 

. . . . 1, 90364,000 
) Centra Goverment 

54 , 27 , 58 ,000 Loans, Advances and Investmeots from National Agricultural 

Credit (Long Term Operations) Puod 
(a ) State Governments 

18 ,52,02 ,000 (a ) Loans and Advances to : 
State Governments . . 

29 ,40 ,74 ,000 
( 8 ) State Co - operative Banki 

. . 

14 , 92 ,40 , 000 

( mm ) Central Land Mortgage Banks . 
(6 ) Bank - 

(6) Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank Debentures 5 , 53,77, 000 

Loans and Advances from National Agricultural Credit 
(1) Scheduled Banks 

127 ,95 ,81,000 ( Stabilisatioa ) Fund 
(5 ) State Co -operative Banks 14 ,30,57 ,000 Loans and Advances to State Co -operative Banks 

4 ,68 ,31,000 
(i ) Other Banks 

132, 000 Loans, Advances and Investments from National Industrial 

Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund 
(c) Orhers . . . . . . 3,34,08 ,08 ,000 (a ) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank 3,84 ,17,000 

(b ) Investment in boods/ debentures issued by the 
Bil. Poyable 

48 , 02 , 86 .000 

Development Bank 
Other Liabilities 48 , 12 , 18,000 Other Assets . . . . 

55,73 ,37 ,000 
Rupees - 381, 72 , 52 , 000 

Rupee . 

881, 72 ,52 ,000 
* Includes Cash and Short -term Securities . 
* *Excluding investraents from the National Agricultural Credit ( Long Term Operations) Fund and the National lodustrial Credit ( Long Term 

Operations) Fund 
@R iding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Loog Term Operations ) Fund, but including temporary overdrarts 

to State Governments. 
tincludes Rs. Nil advanced to scheduled banks against 194nce bills under section 17(4Xc) of the R . B . I. Act. 
Excluding Loansand Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit ( Stabili 

etico ) Fund . 
Dated the 7th day of July , 1966 . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JULY16,1966/ASADHA25,1888 


(PARTII-- 


An scount pumant to the Reserre Benk of India Act , 1934, for the week ended the Ist day of July 1966 . 

ISUE DEPARTMENT 


Sec.$(ii)] 


LIABILITIES 


Ra. 


Rs. 


ANUTS 


R . 


Ro 


Gold Coin und Bullion : 


30 ,42 ,01,000 
2875 ,66,79, 000 


Notes held in the Banking Depart 

Dent 
Notes in Circulation . . 

Total Notes issued . 


( a ) Held in India 
(6 ) Held outside Indie 


. 


. 


. 


115,89. 25,000 


2905, 08 ,80 , 000 


201,42, 01, 003 


Foreign Securities . . . . 

TOTAL . . . 
Rupee Coin . . . . . 
Government of India Rupee Securities 
Loternal Bills of Exchange and other 

coumeroal paper 
TOTA ! ASSETS 


317, 31,26,000 

33, 85,95,000 
2504 , 91, 59,000 


TOTAL LUABLITIES 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JULY10,1966/ASADHA25,1888 


2906 ,08 ,80 , 000 


290608 ,80,000 


Deted the 7th day of July , 1966. 


P . C . BHATTACHARYTA , 

Governor . 

(No. P . 343 - BC /66. ] 
V . SWAMINATHAN , Under Secy . 


2039 


2040 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 /ASADHA 25 , 1888 


[Part II -- 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 


INCOME- Tax 


New Delhi, the 6th July 1968 


S . O . 2089 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
121 of the Income-tax Act , 1961 (43 of 1961) , the Central Board of Direct Taxes 
hereby directs that in its Notifcation No . 20 ( F . No . 55 / 1 / 62 - IT ) dated the 30th 
April, 1963 published as S . O . 1293 on pages 1454 — 1457 of the Gazette of India 
Part II Section 3 sub - section ( il) dated the 11th May, 1963 as amended from 
time to time: 


Against S . No. 9, Madras- I, under Column 3 of the Schedule appended thereto , 
the following shall be added : 

" 21. Company Circle , Madural” . 
This notiAcation shall take effect from 11th July 1966. 


[No. 84 ( F .No. 55 / 215 / 66 - I. T .I 


G . M . KULKARNI, Under Secy . 


MADRAS CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , MADRAS 


CENTRAL EXCISES 


Madras, the 14th June 1966 


SUB . — Period of preservation of Central Excise documents - Regarding . 


S . O . 2090 . — In exercise of the powers vested in me under Rule 233 of the 
Central Excise Rules , 1944 and in continuation of the Collectorate Notification of 
even number dated 25th October 1965, I direct that the Central Excise licensees 
who are required to maintain the following documents as prescribed under the 
Central Excise Act and Rules etc ., shall preserve the same for the period men 
tioned against each . 


S . No. 


Description of 
docunichte 


Central Excise 


Period of 
preservation 


I. 


D . D . 2 


10 years . 


2 . T .P. 4 


4 years . 


3. 


Stock cards 


3 years , 


( C . No. Va / 24 / 38 /84 .C .E . Pol. II. ] 


B . SEN , Collector. 


SEC. 3(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16, 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1838 


2041 


BOMBAY CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

Bombay, the 25th June 1966 
S . O . 2091. - - In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Rule 233 of 
Central Excise Rules , 1944, I hereby direct that every licensed manufacturer 
of matches falling under Central Excise Tariff Item No. 38 , within the jurisdic 
tion of the Bombay Central Excise Collectorate , Bombay, should maintain an 
account in the enclosed proforma, of the raw materials such ag wax , sulphur and 
potassium chlorate used in the manufacture of matches and that guch manu 
facturer shall submit a monthly return in the enclosed form in triplicate to the 
Collector within ten ( 10 ) days of the close of the month to which it relates, 

2. The record of raw materials should be maintained properly and made 
available for inspection by any Central Excise Officer at any time as required 
under Rule 226 of Central Excise Rules , 1944, 


Account Showing the raw Materials used in the Maufacture of Matckes 
Name of the factory and its category ! 


2042 


Division . . . . . . . 


Collectorate . . . . . . . . 


REMARKS 


Date 


Description Opening 
of raw ma- Balance 
terial 


Total of 
Quantity Coloumns 
received (4 ) & (5 ) 


Quantity Quantity 
consumed consumed 
in the pro - otherwise 
duction of if any 
matches 


Closing Quantity 
balance of matches 

Col (6 ) mi- Manufac - 
nus Cols . 67 ) tured . 
& (8 ) 


Consump 
tíon per 100 
gross boxes 
of sos & 

etc . 


II 


I2 


Wax . 
( 2 ) Sulphur. 

Potassium Chlorate , 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JULY16,1966/ASADHA25,1888 


[PartII 


ataclority Return o Raw Materias Und 


Ce alt k 
. . . . .Month 
. .. .. Year 


. . . . . . .. Range 
. . . . . . . . Circle 


$ecsanj 


+E 


FI + 


. . . . . . Collectorate 


Name of factory and its category . . . 


Description of 

raw mateirats 


REHABIS 


Opening 
balance 


Quantity 
received 


Total of Quantity 
columns 
columns Mar 

consumed 
(2 ) & ( ) in the 

production 
of matches 


Quantity 
consumed 
otherwise 
if any 


Closing Quantity of 
balance 

matches 
COL (4 )mi- manufac - 
mus cols. tured . 
6 ) & (6 ) 


consumption 
per 100 gross boxes 

of 50s . 


- 


ſ o 


IO 


I Var 
2 . Suhbur. 
3. Potassirm Chloratc 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JULY16,1966/ASADHA25,1888 


[No . C .E .R . 233 /38 /( 2) /66.] 

A . K . ROY, 
Collector 


. 


. 


- 


- 


2043 


2044 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966/ ASADHA 25, 1888 


[PART II 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE MADHYA PRADESH AND VIDARBHA 

CENTRAL Excises 

Nagpur, the 27th June 1966 
S . O . 2092 — In exercise of the powers conferred upon me under Rule 233 of the 
Central Excise Rules, 1944 , I hereby direct that the manufacturers of Matches 
in this Collectorate shall hereafter maintain a day to day account of raw materials 
namely , wax , sulphur and potassium chlorate used in the manufacture of matches . 
Such manufacturers shall also submit a monthly return of raw materials used in 
the form appended by the 10th of the month following to the Inspector , Central 
Excise concerned with copies to the under mentioned officers : 

(1) The Superintendent/ Assistant Collector of Central Excise, concerned ; 
(11) The Superintendent of Central Excise (Preventive ), Central Excise Col 

lectorate , Nagpur . 


. . . . . . . . . . 101 L 

. . . . . . Year 


Centra ! Scise Machts - Monthly Resor of 

Raw Mattials Uxd 


. . . . . . . .Range 
. . . . . . . Cirde 
. . . . . . . . Collectorate 


SP 


SEO.8(ü)] 


Name of factory and its category . .. .. 


Description 

of raw 
material 


Opening 
balance 


Quantity 
received 


REMARKS 


Total of columns Quantity Quantity 
( 2 ) & (3 ) 

consumed consumed 

in the pro - otherwise 
duction of if any 

matches 


Closing Quantity of Consumption 
balance matches per 100 
Col. (4 ) mi- manufac - gross 
nus cols. (5 ) 

boxes of sos 
& (6 ) 


tured 


45 


ΙΟ 


I . War , 
2 . Sulphur . 
3 . Potassium chlorate . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JULY16,1966/ASADHA25,1888 


[No. 3 / 66 .) 
VIPIN MANEKLAL , Collector. 


2045 


2046 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 /ASADHA 25 , 1888 


(PART II 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE , BANGALORE 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

Bangalore , the 28th June 1968 
S . O . 2093 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Rule 233 of 
Central Excise Rules, 1944 , I hereby direct that all manufacturers of Matches 
ghall maintain proper accounts of raw materials wax , sulphur and potassium 
chlorate received and used in the manufacture of matcheg and submit a monthly 
return in the enclosed form to the Central Excise Oncer In -charge of the factory 
within 7 days after the close of each month , 


. .. . . . . . ,Month 
. . . . . . ... . . . Year 


Central Excise - Matches lionthly Return of 

Raw Material Used 


. . . . . . . . . . .Range 

. .. . . .. . Circle 


Sec.8(H)] 


. . . . . . . . . Colectorate 


Name of factory and its category . . . . . . . . 


REMARKS 


Description 

of raw 
material 


B 


ring balance Quantity 

received 


Total of 

Columns 
(2 ) & (3 ) 


Quantity 
consumed 
in the pro 

duction of 
matches 


Quantity 
consumed 
otherwise 

if any 


Closing Quantity of Consumpt - 
balance matches op per 100 
Col. (4 ) manufac - gross boxes 
minus Cois . tured of sos 
(5 ) & ( 07 


3 


3 


4 


5 


IO 


I . W :18 , 
2. Sulphur. 
3 . Potassium Chlorate. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDLA:JULY16,1966/ASADHA25,1888 


( Issued from file C . No, V / 38 / 1 / 89-BL) 

[No. 2/66 .] 
C . T . A . PLLAI, Collector . 


2047 


2048 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25, 1886 


(PART II 


- 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 
New Delhi, the 6th July 1968 


para o , 


woulu 101 


S . O . 2094 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by clauses 3 , 4 , 13, 
14A and 17 of the Cotton Control Order , 1955 , and of all other powerg enabling 
me in this behalf, I hereby make the following order in respect of Indian cotton 
marketed in India from 1st September , 1966 . 


( 1 ) Permission for sale of cotton by a manufacturer . - No manufacturer shall 
sell cotton to any person without the previous written permission of the Textile 
Commissioner , 


(2 ) The prices stated in Schedule A annexed hereto will not apply to pur 
chase of permitted varietieg for the purposes of export by an exporter. However, 
no such exporter shall sell in the internal market any part of such cotton 
purchased for export without the written permission of the Textile Commission 
er . In case such permission is granted , such cotton shall be sold in the Internal 
market at a price not exceeding the maximum price specified in Schedule A . 


( 3 ) Purchase of Kapas by manufacturer - Every manufacturer to whom per 
mission under sub - clause 3 of clause 13 of the Cotton Control Order , 1985 has 
been issued shall purchase Kapas at such price that the eventual correspond 
ing cost price of the ginned and / or pressed lint out- turn shall not exceed the 
maximum price fixed In Schedule A : 


Provided that no such manufacturer shall use for his own consumption any 
such cotton unless surveyed by the East India Cotton Association , Ltd , Bombay 
in accordance with the provisions hereinafter contained . The samples for this 
purpose shall be drawn by the approved Controllers appointed by the East India 
Cotton Association Ltd ., Bombay , 


( 4 ) Filing of returns. Every A class licence holder not being a manufac 
turer or a Bank , shall furnish eycry month to the Cotton Cell , Economic Branch , 
Office of the Textile Commissioner , in the form given in Annexure A , a state 
ment of his actual stocks of Indian cotton so as to reach this Once on or before 
the 10th of the succeeding month , 

(5 ) Survey ( i) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (6 ) below , no manu 
facturer shall take delivery of any Indian cotton at a price exceeding the maxi 
mum price mentioned in the Survey certificate issued in accordance with the 
provisions herein contained . 

( il ) Each application for survey or appeal shall be made by the manufacturer 
or appellant as the case may be in a form prescribed by the Eagt India Cotton 
Association Ltd ., Bombay , and approved by the Textile Commissioner , for the 
purpose from time to time. 

(111 ) For the purposes of survey , the manufacturer /buyer shall draw the 
samples in the presence of the seller, from the stamped bale on the basis of 
which the delivery is intended to be taken and shall forward the same duly 
sealed by, both the buyer and the seller , to the East India Cotton Association 
Ltd ., Bombay . 


( iv ) The survey certificate shall show the name of the manufacturer , the 
name of the seller , the number of bales, the lot number , press running numbers 
of bales, press marks, description as claimed by the applicant, the award under 
the survey for the grade, staple and description and the maximum price which 
shall, however , be subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of 
sub -paragraph ( ii) of paragraph 0 . 


( v ) If either the manufacturer -applicant or the seller is not satisfied with 
the survey award of the East India Cotton Association Ltdt., Bombay, he may 
prefer an appeal to the Textile Commissioner s Appeal Committee , known as 
Ad Hoc Committee, within eight days of the date of the survey award , 


(6 ) Minimum and max [mum prices of cotton. — ( 1) Subject to the other pro 
visions hereinafter contained , the minimum and the maximum prices of cotton 
of the 1966 - 67 season of the description specified in columns ( 1 ) & ( 2 ) of the 


SEC. 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 28 , 1888 


2049 


Schedule A shall be as specified in columns (3 ) & (4 ) respectively of the said 
Schedule : 

Provided that where cotton which is the subject matter of a contract, is of 
a quality either inferior or superior to the basic quality referred to in columns 
( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the said Schedule , the minimum and maximum prices shall be 
decreased or increased as the case may be, by an amount specified in columns 
( 5 ) to ( 15 ) of the said Schedule : 

Provided further that no such cotton shall be considered to be of a quality 
superior to the basic quality as aforesaid unless its superior staple and class 
have been certified by the East India Cotton Association Ltd ., Bombay or in 
appeal, by the Textile Commissioner s Appeal Committee known as Ad Hoc 
Committee and the maximum price of such cotton shall be in accordance with 
the description , stable and class mentioned in such certificate. 

( 11) ( a ) The prices specified in Schedule A are in rupees per quintal of 
100 kgs . net for delivery in full pressed bales ex -seller s godown , Bombay and 
include 1 / 4 % brokerage payable by the seller to the buyer and the usual sample 
and stone allowance as provided in the bye - laws of the East India Cotton Asso 
ciation Ltd , Bombay. However , when cotton is requisitioned , no brokerage 
charge or any other allowance ( except stone allowance in Bombay ) will be per 
missible . 

( b ) The minimum and maximum prices at the place of origin shall be the 
price specified in Schedule A reduced by a sum equivalent to the railway freight 
from the place of origin to Bombay and a sum equivalent to 10 of the price, 
subject to a minimum of Rs. 2. 80 per quintal. 

( c ) The minimum and maximum prices for delivery at any place other than 
the place of origin or Bombay shall be the prices applicable in the place of 
origin as arrived at in accordance with the above paragraph and increased by 
a sum equivalent to the railway freight from the place of origin to the place of 
delivery to the buyer and a sum equivalent to 1 % of the price subject to a mini 
mum of Rs. 2 . 80 per quintal, 

( a ) The maximum prices specified in paragraph 6 ( 1) and sub - paragraphs (a ) , 
( b ) and ( c ) of paragraph 6 ( ii ) shall be increased , where the sale is directly to 
a manufacturer by 1 - 1 / 4 per cent thereof , and if the sale , is directly to an A 
class licensee by 3 / 4 per cent thereof , except in the case of cotton requisitioned 
by an order of the Textile Commissioner or any officer authorised by him in 
this behalf. 

( e ) The maximum and minimum prices specified in paragraph 6 ( i) and sub 
pargraph ( a ), ( b ) and ( c ) of paragraph 6 ( ii) shall be decreased by Rs. 71 
per quintal when the subject maiter of the contract is ginned (that is unpressed ) 
cotton . 

( f ) Where Cotton which is the subject matter of a contract is loose cotton ob 
tained by opening full pressed bale and does not exceed 15 kgs , in weight, the 
maximum prices specified in paragraph (i) and sub -paragraphs ( al, ( b ) and ( c ) 
of paragraph 6 ( ii ) shall be increased by 121 % thereof, 

( g ) The minimum price fixed under this notification shall not apply to cotton 
which is inferior in class or staple to that for which allowances are specified 
in columns (5 ) , (6 ) , ( 7 ) ( 10 ) and ( 11 ) of Schedule A but it shall be open to 
any person or persons who are required to fix the exact value of any such 
cotton to fix a value which is less than the price specified for the lowest staple 
and class of cotton of the description , 

( h ) Nothing in this notification shall apply to a contract of sale for the pur 
pose of export by an exporter with an overseas buyer or his agent or by a 
grower or middleman with an exporter or his agent. 

( i ) A certificate from the Textile Commissioner to the effect that the con 
tract entered into is for the purpose of export shall be conclusive evidence of 
that fact. 


( 7 ) Cotton requisitioned . - ( i) At the time of requisitioning , the holder of the 
cotton shall be required to declare the variety of his cotton which is intended 
to be requisitioned . If, however , it is found by the committee specifled in Sche 
dule B in survey that the variety of the cotton is other than what had been 


2050 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / AŞADHA 25 , 1888 


[ PART II-- 


declared by the holder , the Textile Commissioner may require the holder to 
replace the cotton by thc voriety originally cleclared hy him . In case of the 
cotton rcquisitioned , the holder of the cotton shall arrange for the sampling of 
cotton by the authorised controller . The procedure for delivery , weighment and 
payment of rcquisitioned cotton may be subject to the Bye - Laws of the East 
India Cotion Association Ltd ., Bombay . 

(ii ) In case the quality of cotton requisitioned by the Textile Commissioner 
is found by the Coinmittee specified in Schedule B annexed hereto , to be in . 
ferior to the ininimum grude or staple for which the prices are prescribed in 
Schedule A the person in whose favour the cotton is requisitioned shall have 
a right to refuse to take delivery of such cotton . In the event of such refusal 
the holder of the cotton shall be required to replace such cotton by cotton having 
a staple and grade for which the prices are prescribed in the said Schedule A 
if required by the Textile Commissioner or the holder may pay the penalty as 
provided in the Bye - laws of the East India Cotton Association Ltd ., Bombay , 

( 8 ) Varieties not having ceiling prices . No ceiling prices have been fixed 
for : - ( a ) Andrews Extra long staple cotton [Sca - Island ( Andrews) ] grown in 
the States of Andhra Pradesh , Kerala , Mysore, Maharashtra and Madras if it 
Is certified by the Committee specified in Schedule B as having staple length 
of above 1 - 3 / 32 " and complies with the following conditions: 

(i) The seeds required for sowing such cotton in the above States have been 
duly approved and supplied by the Officers of the Sea - Island Cotton Develop 
ment Scheme in the States of Kerala and Mysore and the Officers of the De 
partment of Agriculture in the States of Andhra Pradesh , Maharashtra and 
Madras and a certificate of purity has been issued by them for the pressed bales . 

( ii ) The ginning and pressing of the crop of such cotton have been done under 
the supervision of the aforesaid oficers and a certifcate of purity has been issued 
by them for the pregged bales . 

(b ) Gujarat 67 ( ISC - 67 ) cotton grown in Gujarat State , if it is certified by 
the Committee specified in Schedule B as having a staple length above 1 - 3 / 32" 
and complies with the following conditions : 
(i ) The secds required for sowing such cotton have been duly approved 

and supplied hy the State Department of Agriculture , 
( ii) The ginning and pressing of the crop of such cotton have been done 

under the supervision of the State Department of Agriculture and 
a certificate of purity has been issued by the Department for the 

pressed bales. 
( c ) Any other cotton which may be certified by the State Departments of 
Agriculture or Agmarked under the Cotton Grading and Marking Rules , 1962, 
indicating varietal purity and further certified as having a staple length above 
1 - 3 / 32 " by the Committee specified in Schedule B , 


( 9 ) Description of varieties .- - ( a ) (i ) “ Vidarbha / M .P . Virnar " means cotton 
recognised as such and grown in Vidarbha region of Maharashtra State , Madhya 
Pradesh , Jhalawar district and Udaipur Division of Rajasthan and Adilabad dis 
trict of Andhra Pradesh and includes “ Virnar (197 - 3 )" , " Maljari" , " Malvi” and 
" Bhoj” grown in these areas. It also includes H . 420 grown in Kurnool and 
Ananthapur districts of Andhra Pradesh , and Bellary and Chitradurga districts 
of Mysore State provided that the areas in which the cotton is grown are pro 
tected under the Cotton Transport Act , 1923 ( 3 of 1923 ) . It also includes " Buri 
American ” which does not conform to the definition in sub - paragraph ( p ) of 
this paragraph . 

( ii) " Moglai Jarilla " means cotton recognised as such and grown in the Marath 
wada region (excluding the 93 villages in Soyagaon Mahal and Kannad and 
Bhokardan talukas of Aurangabad district ) and Hingoli taluka of Parbhani dis 
trict of Maharashtra State protected under the Cotton Transport Act , 1923 
( 3 of 1923 ) or other corresponding Act and includes Virnar ( 197 / 3 ) grown in 
these areas, 

( iii ) " Klardesh Virnar " means cotton recogniscd as such and grown in the 
districts of Ahmednagar , Sholapur, Poona, Satara , Nasik , Jalgaon and Dhulia 
( Excluding Vauapur and Akkalkuwa Talukas and in the 93 villages in Soyagaon 


SEC. % ( ii) ] 


TUE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


2051 


Mahal andK irl and Bhokardan talukas of Aurangabad district of Maharash 
tra State proteinel und ti ( ollon Tr.11.0pcrt Act, 1923 ( 3 of 1923 ) und Virnar 
197- 3 growh it im BilDur Distrirt uſ Mysore State . It also include : " Y - 1 " 
grown in the love urca it recognised 25 such . 

( b ) ( i) " Digvijay ( A ) " incans cotton recognised as such ( including Vijay ) 
and grown in the districts of Surat, Bulsar, Broach , Baroda , Kaira ( excepi talukas 
of Cambay and Potlad ), Panchmahals and Sabarkantha of Gujarat Stato and 
Banswara district of Rajasthan and Mawapur and Akkalkuwa talukas of Dhulia 
district of Maharashtra State . 


( ii) " Digvijay ( B ) ” means cotton recognised as such ( including Vijay ) and 
grown in Cambay and Petlad talukas of Kaira district, Ahmedabad district lying 
South of River Sabarmati ( including part of Daskoi taluka and the whole of 
City and Dehgam talukas) of Gujarat State . If any , " Digvijay " cotton grown 
in these areas is recognised as " Digvijay A " , such cotton shall come under 
" Digvijay ( A ) ” . 


( c ) " Punjab American F . 14 " means cotton recognised as such and grown 
in the State of Punjab and includes " Punjab American 216 F " grown in the 
States of Uttar Pradesh , Madras and Andhra Pradesh provided , that the areas 
in which the cotton is grown are protected under the Cotton Transport Act , 
1923 ( 3 of 1923 ) or other corresponding Act. It also includes " Punjab American 
LL 54 " grown in the Punjab State which does not conform to the definition in 
sub - paragraph (t ) 121 of this paragraph . 


( d ) " Punjab American 320 F " means cotton recognised as such and grown 
in the States of Punjab and Uttar Pradesh and in the Ganganagar district of 
Rajasthan , provided that the areas in which the cotton is grown are protected 
under the Cotton Transport Act, 1923 ( 3 of 1923 ) , or other corresponding Act. 
It also includes " Punjab American L . S . S ." 


( e ) " Jayrdhar" mcans cotton recognised as such and grown in Dharwar , 
Belgaum , Bijapur, Chitradurga , and Raichur districts of Mysore State and Sangli, 
Satara and Kolhapur districts of Maharashtra State provided that the arcas in 
which the cotton is growni ale protected under the Cotton Transport Act, 1923 
( 3 of 1923) , or other corresponding Act. It also includes " BC - I ( Suyodhar ) " 
grown in the above areas of Mysore Statc if recognised as such . 


( 1 ) " Lax . .. " means cottun recognised as such and grown in Dharwar, Bel 
gaum , Bijapur , Chitradurga , Haşsan , Chikmagalur , Shimoga , Mandya , Mysore, 
Gulbarga, Raichur and Bellary districts of Mysore State , Kurnool, Cuddapah and 
Anantapur districts of Andhra Pradesh , Phaltan Taluka of Satara District, Bara 
mati taluka of Poona district and Sangli and Sholapur districts of Maharashtra 
State provided that the areas in which the cotton is grown are protected under 
the Cotton Transport Act , 1923 ( 3 of 1923 ) , or other corresponding Act. It also 
includes cotton recognised as such and grown in Madras State . It further in 
cludes " M . A . 55 " which does not conform to the definition of sub -paragraph ( t ) 
( 3 ) of this paragraph 


( 8 ) " Westerns" means cotton recognised as such and grown in the Bellary 
and Raichur districts of Mysoro State and Kurnool, Anantapur, Cuddapah and 
Mehboobnagar districts of Andhra Pradesh and includes " Hagari 1 ” (Westerns 
Farm ), “ White Northerns" and " Red Northerns" . It also includes certified " Ado 
nicum ” recognised as such and grown in the Mungari Tract [ as defined in sub 
paragraph ( u below ] of Andhra Pradesh and " Coconadas 1 and 2 " and " Coco 
nadas White 1741 ) ” grown in the Coastal districts of Andhra Pradesh . 


( h ) " Karunganni" niealis cotton rccognised as such and grown in Coimbatore , 
Tiruchirapalli, Muduri, Ramanathapuram and Tirunelveli districts of Madras State 
and includes " K :1141camni K5 and uncertifled K6 ( Pandyan ) " , " Tirunel 
veli" and "Slums" ( Nidar , Bourbon and Uppam ) , 


(i ) " Dholic ! u " 17 .uis cotton recognised as such und grown in the Rajkot 
clivision of the Gujarat State and includes " Cutch " , " 1027 " , " Kadi / Viramgam " , 
" Kadayo " , "Tagad " , and " Kalugin " . It also includes " Kalyan " which does not con 
form to the delinition of the cotton contained in sub - paragraph (1) of this para 
graph 


2052 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / AŞADHA 25 , 1888 


[Part II -- 


( 1) " Kalyan " means cotton recognised as such and grown : 


( i ) In the Ahmedabad (Dholka , Dhandhuka , Sanand and Viramgam / talu 

kas ), Kaira (Cambay taluka ) , Banaskantha and Mehsana districts 
and parts of Surendranagar district of Gujarat State , provided that 
the areas in which the cotton is grown are protected under the 
Cotton Transport Act, 1923 ( 3 of 1923 ) . 


( ii) In the Rajkot division of Gujarat State , provided that the seed required 

for sowing has been duly approved and supplied by the State 
Department of the Agriculture and the produce has been certified 
by that Department as being " Kalyan " , 


( k ) " Sanjay" (CJ 73 ) nieans cotton recognised as such and grown in Rajkot 
division of Gujarat State , and the Marathwada region of the Maharashtra State 
provided the cotton is certified as such by the respective State Department of 
Agriculture. It also includes Pratap recognised as such and grown in these 
areas. 


( 1 ) " Bengal Desi" means cotton recognised as such and grown in the States 
of Punjab , Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan It also includes Raniben (UP - 1 ) cot 
ton grown in Uttar Pradesh if recognised as such . 


( m ) " Oomras" means cotton recognised as such and grown in Sholapur, 
Ahmednagar and Poona districts and Vidarbha and Marathwada regions of Maha 
rashtra State , Adilabad and Warangal districts of Andhra Pradesh and Chhind 
wara district of Madhya Pradesh , It also includes " C . P . I. and TT " and " Central 
India Cotton " recognised as such and grown in these areas . 


( n ) " Mathia " means cotton recognised as such and grown in the Rajkot divi 
sion of the Gujarat State, 


( 0 ) "Mungari " means cotton recognised as such and grown in Bellary and 
Raichur districts of Mysore State and in the Anantapur, Cuddapah and Kurnool 
( except Cumbum and Markapur talukos ) districts and Gadhwal and Alampur 
talukas of Mehboobnagar district of Andhra Pradesh . 


( p ) " Buri American " means cotton recognised as such and grown in the 
Madhya Pradesh , Kotah ( except Jhalawar district ) , Udaipur and Ajmer Division 
of Rajasthan , and includes " Buri 107 " , " C Indore 1 " , " C Indore 2 " and " Udaipur 
American " , provided the areas in which the cotton is grown are protected under 
the Cotton Transport Act, 1923 ( 3 of 1923 ) , or other corresponding Act . It also 
includes uncertified " Buri 0394 " recognised as such and grown in the Madhya 
Pradesh and uncertified " A . 51: 9" grown outside the area , controlled under the 
Madhya Pradesh Cotton Control Act , 1954 , comprising East Nimar (Khandwa ) 
and West Nimar (Khargone ) districts , Kukshi and Manawar tehsily of Dhar 
District and Thandla , Jhabua and Patalwad tehsils of Jhabua district of Madhya 
Pradesh and uncertified C . T . I, 4 - 21 ( Badnawar - 1 ) grown outside Badnawar tah 
sil of Dhar District of Madhya Pradesh . It further includes " Parbhani American " 
cotton recognised as such and grown in Adilabad , Utnoor and Boath talukas of 
Adilabad district of Andhra Pradesh and Kinwat taluka of Nanded district . 


( q ) " L - 147" means cotton recognised as such (known also as Buri I.- 147) 
and grown in the Vidharbha region and Jalgaon district of Maharashtra State , 
Adilabad district of Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh . It also includes 
B - 147 cotton grown in the Nanded , Parbhani, Bhiar , Aurangabad and Osmanabad 
districts of Maharashtra State, provided that the cotton is cerified as such by 
the State Department of Agriculture . 


(1 ) " Gaorani 22 and 48 " means cotton recognised as such and grown in Nanded 
( excluding Kinwat taluka and Islapur circle ) Parbhani, Osmanabad, Auranga 
bad ( excluding the 93 villages in Soyagaon Mahal, Kannad and Bhokardan talu 
kas merged in Khandesh tract ) and Bir districts of Maharashtra State, Bidar and 


SEÇ, 8( ii)) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 18 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1898 


2053 


Gulbaraga districts of Mysore State and Adilabad (Nirmal and Mudhol talukas ) 
and Medak (Zahirabad and Narayankhed talukas ) districts of Andhra Pradesh 
provided that the areas in which the cotton is grown are protected under the 
Cotton Transport Act, 1923 ( 3 of 1923 ) or any corresponding Act. It includes 
" Daulat" (2204 ) " G . 6 " , " G . 12 " , " 1494 " grown in these areas. It further includes 
" Nandyal 14 " , " Nandicum " and "Gaorani 6 " (Unri grown in the Kurnool district 
of Andhra Pradesh ) . 


Prices spccified for these varieties in Schedule A would apply if they are 
( a ) certified by the State Department of Agriculture or ( b ) Agmarked under 
the Cotton Grading and Marking Rules, 1962 , indicating varietal purity . 


( s ) " AK - 235 and 277 " means cotton recognised as such and grown in Vidar 
bha region of Maharashtra State , 


( t) ( 1 ) " Cambodia ( A )" means cotion recognised as " Rajapalayam or M . C . U . 
1 (Co. 4 ) " grown in Madras in Madras State and includes " MCU - 3 ( 9030G ) ” , 
It also includes " MCU 2 " grown as summer crop in Ramanathapuram , Madurai 
and Tirunelveli districts of Madras State. It further includes " Indo - American 
170 - Co2" and " 134 -C02 " M , grown in the States of Gujarat and Maharashtra and 
" 170 - Co2 " grown in Bijapur and Belgaum districts of Mysore State . 


(i ) The prices specified for these varieties in Schedule A would apply if 

they are of the staple length of 1 - 1 /32" and over and if they are ( a ) 
certified by the State Department of Agriculture or ( b ) Agmarked 
under the Cotton Grading and Marking Rules, 1962 , indicating varie 
tal purity or ( c ) certified by the East India Cotton Association Ltd ., 
Bombay with the right or appeal to the Committee specified in 
Schedule B as having staple length of 1 - 1 / 32 " and above. However , 
in the case of Cambodia A cotton grown in Madras State the prices 
specified in Schedule A would apply if they are certified by the 
Certification Officer duly authorised in this respect by the Director 
of Agriculture under the Superior Cotton Certification Scheme in 
the Madras State to the effect that the staple length of the cot 
ton is not less than 1 - 1 / 32" with the right of appeal to the Committee 
specified in Schedule B as having a staple length of 1 - 1 /82 " and above . 


(ii) No cotton staple below 1 - 1 /32" will be recognised as coming under the 

varieties mentioned in the above clausę ( t ) ( i ) . 


( 2 ) " Cambodia ( B ) " means cotton recognised as certified or " Agmarked " " M . A . 
5 " and " L . L .54" and uncertified " 134 - Co . 2M " " 170 - Co2" , " M . C . U . 1" ( Co.4 ) , " M . C . 
U . 2” and “ M . C . U . 3 " ( 9030G ) grown in the States of Madras , Gujarat, Maharashtra , 
Mysore, Punjab and Ganganagar district of Rajasthan . It also includes Laxmi 
cotton grown in the districts of Satara , Poona, Sholapur, Sangli, Ahmednagar , 
Nasik Dhulia , Jalgaon , Aurangabad , Bhir , Parbhani, Osmanabad and Nanded 
in Maharashtra State if certifled by the Director of Agriculture as having been 
grown in these areas and if it is more than 1 " in staple . It further includes CTI 
4 - 21 ( Badnawar - 1 ) recognised as such and grown in the Badnawar tahsil of 
Dhar district of Madhya Pradesh notified as controlled area under the Madhya 
Pradesh Cotton Control Act, 1954 . 


( 3 ) " Camhodia ( C )" means all Cambodia cotton recognised as such and grown 
in the States of Madras, Andhra Pradesh , Mysore , Kerala ( Palghat district ) , 
Maharashtra , Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh . It also includes " K ,8 ( Pandyan ) " 
il recognised as such and also certified by the Certification Officer duly authorised 
in this behalf by the Director of Agriculture under the Superior Cotton Certi 
fication Scheme in Madras State It also includma " A -51. 9 " ( Narmada ) rerognis 
ed as such and grown in the East Nimar (Khandwa ) Hoshangabad and West 
Nimar (Khangono ) districts . Kukshi and Manawar tehsils of Dhar district and 
Thandla , Jhabua and Petalwad tehsils of Jhabua district of Madhya Pradesh , 
notificd as controlled are under the Madhya Pradesh Cotton Control Act, 1954 . 


2054 


TUIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


[PART 11 – 


(u ) Andrews Extra Long Staple (otherwise known as “ Sea - Island Andrews" ) 
means cotton recognised as such and grown in Kozhikode, Palghat and Trichur 
districts and other coastal parts of Kerala State , Hassan , Mandya, Shimoga , 
Chikmagalur and other districts in the Malnad area of the Mysore State and 
States of Maharashtra , Madras and Andhra Pradesh . 


The basic minimum prices specified in Schedule A will apply only 11 the 
cotton is certified (a ) by the State Department of Agriculture, or ( b ) Agmarked 
under the Cotton Grading and Marking Rules, 1962 , indicating varietal purity . 


( v ) "Gujarat 67 (ISC -67 )" means cotton recognised as such and grown in 
Gujarat State. 


The basic minimum prices - specified in Schcdule A will apply only if the 
cotton is certified ( a ) by the State Department of Agriculture , or ( b ) Agmarked 
under the Cotton Grading and Marking Rules, 1962, indicating varietal purity . 


( 10 ) Ad Hoc Committee. — The Committee specified in Schedule B shall be 
the Committee to which the final appeal may lie in respect of questions regard 
ing the quality of colton and prices. Any cotton not coming under any of the 
above descriptions will be submitted to the Ad Hoc Committee for classifications 
and for fixing the minimum and maximum prices except mixed cotton which 
may be sent to East India Cotton Association Ltd , Bombay for fixing the mini 
mum and maximum prices. In case of references for fixing the minimum and 
maximum prices of any cotton on the basis of certificates issued for staple , 
grade and / or description by the East India Cotton Association Ltd ., Bombay 
the Ad Hoc Committee may, if necessary , require the actual samples to be 
produced before it for a re - survey before fixing such minimum and maximum 
priccs. On the basis of such re - survey it may give its award on staple , grade 
and /or description of the cotton and such award shall be final irrespective of 
any classifcation thereof made by the East India Cotton Association Ltd ., Bom 


bay . 


(11) Restrictions and conditions on Contract. -- The Contracts for the sale or 
purchase of Indian Cotton produced during the cotton season 1966 -67 shall be 
subject to the following restrictions and conditions: - - 


( a ) No person shall enter into a contract for the sale or purchase of cotton 
at a price less than the minimum price or more than the maximum price as 
fixed by the Textile Commissioner under clause 3 of the Cotton Control Order , 
1955, in respect of Indian Cotton produced during the cotton season 1966 - 67 as 
applicable to the subject matter of the contract having regard to the place 
of delivery thereunder . 


( b ) No person shall enter into a contract for sale with an overseas buyer 
for the purposes of export unless he holds a valid export licence: - - 


Provided however, that where the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Ex 
ports so permits by way of Trade Notice a person may enter into a contract of 
sale with an overseas buyer for the purposes of export without holding a valid 
export licence but subject always to the terms and conditions of such Trade 
Notice. 


Sec. 8 ( )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1968 ) ASADHA 25 , 1888 


2055 


( c ) Every contract in which final price is not specified shall be construed as 
If the following clause was inserted therein viz : 


" The prices payable shall be within the range of the minimum and maximum 
prices Axed by the Textile Commissioner under clause 3 of the Cotton Control 
Order , 1955 , in respect of Indian Cotton produced during the cotton season 
1966 -67" . 


2056 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1968 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


[PART II 


Description of cotton in 

the season 1966 -67 
(Roller ginned 


Basic 
staple 
length 

in 
inchos 


SCHRDULE 
(Figuras in brackets indioata tha approx 
Basic Basic " OPP " allowances for class 
Minimum Maximum other than basic class 10 ) 
priceprica 

rupocs 
per qui. per qti. 
of 100 of 100 
kgs , kgs . Good Fully Fine 

Good 


I 


AL 


Rs. 


Rs. 

265 
( 942) 
(868) 


Basis 


(14 . 224 


312 
(1109 ) 

287 
( 1022) 

326 
( 1160 ) 

370 
( 1316 ) 


( 14 -22 ) 


, 277 


( 14 . 27 ) 
Basis 


338 


( 985) 

315 
( 1120 ) 

287 
( 1021) 

275 
( 970 ) 

298 
( 1060 ) 


258 


(917 ) 

286 
( 1017) 

241 
(857) 


258 


( 14 . 22 ) 

( 14 - 22) 


(916 ) 


210 


(740 ) 


9 . 74 


Inches 
Vidarbha M . P . Virnar • 27 /32 
Moglai Jarilla 

· 25 / 32 
Khandesh Virnaz · 28 / 32 
Digvijay " A " 

· 28/32 
Digvijay “ B ” 

26 / 32 
Punjab American 320P · 27/32 
Punjab American H - 14 28 /32 
Wostorns * , , . 26 / 32 
Karunganni . . . 28 /32 
Dholleras 

· 24 /32 
Sanjay 

. . . 26 / 32 
Bengal Doshi* * 
Oomras . . 
Mathla & Mungari 
Buri American 

29/32 
L . 147 . . 30 /32 
Gaorani 22 & 46 28/32 
AK 235 & 277 28 / 32 
Kalyan . . . 25 /32 
Tayadhar . . . 28 /32 
Laxmi , 29/32 
Cambodia A 

1- 1 /32 
Cambodia B I 
Cambodia "C . 30 /32 
Gujarat-67 (ISC -67) 1-1/8 
Sea Island (Andrews) 1- 3/ 16 


216 


( 1202 ) 

323 
(1150 ) 

350 
( 1249) 

303 
1078 ) 

336 
( 1195) 

283 
(1105) 

303 
( 1078) 
247 
(879) 
254 
( 905 ) 
249 
(886 ) 
348 
(1239 ) 

366 
( 1303) 

337 
( 1197 ) 

337 
(1197 ) 

297 
( 1057 ) 
339 
(1207 ) 

364 
( 1294 ) 

446 
(1586 ) 

389 
( 1385 ) 

365 
(1296 ) 


( 768) 
212 
(754 ) 
296 
( 1053) 

311 
( 1106 ) 

286 
( 1017) 

286 
( 1017 ) 
252 
(896 ) 
288 
( 1024 ) 

309 
( 1099 ) 

379 
( 1348 ) 

331 
( 1177 ) 
30 
(1102) 

437 
( 1554 ) 

503 
( 1789) 


( 14 . 22 ) 


( 14 . 22) 


( 14 -22) 


(14 : 22 ) 


IO 
(35 . 50 ) 


1 


(35 . 50 ) 


* Adoni - cum ut certified as such by the State Department of Agriculture will be entitled 
* * Certified Rani-Ben (UP - I) cotton if recognised as such will be entitled to a premium of 


Seo , 3 (1 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25, 1888 


2057 


“ A ” 
(imate price Rupees in per candy of 784 Ihs.) 


" ON " 


TON " allowances for class " OPF " allowances for 
other than basic class staple below in 
in rupees 

basic stuple in 

rupees 


allowances for steple above basic 

staple in rupees 


Super 
Pine 


Extra 
Superfinu 


2/ 32" 


1/ 32" 


1/32 " 


2 /324 


3 /32 " 


4 /32 " 


IO 


II 


12 


13 


00 


13 


9 


13 


(14 :32) 
( 14 .22) 
(14 - 22) 
Basi: 


(28 - 45 ) 
(28.45) 
(28 -45 ) 


13 
( 46 :23) 
(32 -00 ) 

13 
( 46 23) 

12 
( 4274 ) 


7 


18 


II 


17 


14 


23 


( 14 - 22 ) 


00000000 


20 


11 


(24-89) 

(46 . 231 
(1867) (21 . 3 + ) (46 - 23 ) 
( 24- 89) 

(64 01) 
6 
(21: 34) (39 12 ) (60 - 46 ) 
(21 :34 ) ( 24 .89) (4979 ) (81 .793 

13 
( 21 - 34) (21- 34 ) (46- 23) (71. 12 ) 
(28 .45) (39: 12) (64-01) (88 90 ) 
(21 - 34 ) ( 21°34) (46°23) 171- 12 ) 
(24 .89 ) (24 .89 ) (46 -23 ) 
(24 . 89 ) (21 34 ) (42 .67) 
(56 - 19 ) ( 24 . 89) ( 53 . 54 ) 


18 


25 


( 28 : 45 ) 
(28 -45 ) 


C0 


13 


20 


13 
(46 - 23 ) 

17 
(60 - 46 ) 

13 
(46 23) 

15 
(53 -34 ) 

15 
(53 . 34 ) 
(92 : 46) 


13 


(14 . 22) 
(14- 22) 
(14 - 22) 
(14 - 22 ) 
( 14 . 22) 
(14 . 22 ) 

14 
(49 - 79) 


21 


0 


( 28 -45) 


. 


7 


12 


26 " 


16 


15 


(28.45) 
(28. 45 ) 
(99 - 57) 

13 
(46 . 23) 
(46:23) 
(28 :45) 


II 
(39 . 12 ) 


(21. 34 ) 


( 21 . 34 ) 


13 . 
(46 . 23 ) 


6 


ܞܕܞܨܛܛܛܚܬ 


( 402 


Joº 


( 14 - 22 ) 
( 14 :22 ) 


14 
(49. 79 ) 

14 
(4979 ) 


0 


♡ 


atatata 


0 


13 
(46 -23) 
(67 . 57 ) 


19 


14. 
(21. 34 ) 

(49 - 79 ) 

21 
(32 . 00 ) (35. 50) (74 .67) 
8 

13 
(28 .45 ) (21.34 ) (46 23 ) 
86 

13 
( 28 . 45 ) (21- 34 ) (46 - 23) 

12 

ly 
( 14 - 22 ) ( 21 . 3.1) ( 42 67) (67. 57 ) 

13 
(24 -89) (21. 34 ) (46 - 23) 

14 
(39 12 ) (24. 89 ) (49 . 69 ) (81 -79) 
(67 .57 ) ( 169 . 36 ) 

51 
(32.00) ( 99°57 ) (180- 00) (279- 00 ) 

919 29 
(28 . 45 ) (32 . 00 ) (67. 57 ) (103 . 12) 

28 56 

84 
(99 . 57 ) (199 - 14) (298 . 71 ) 
28 56 

84 
(99 .57) (199 - 14 ) ( 298 - 71) 


II 


II 


7 


23 


000 


19 


3 


(01 79 ) 


( 14 : 22 ) 
: 4 , 


77 


28 


000 


( 14 22 ; 


(28 -45 ) 


Is 


(14 : 22) 


(28. 45 ) 


( 53 . 34 ) 


10 
(35 . 50 ) 


20 
(71. 00 ) 


113 
(398 - 28 ) 


to a preinium of Rs. 7 / - per quintal. 
f. 20 ) - per quintal provided the staple is not helow 24 /32 " , 


2058 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 /ASADHA 25, 1888 


[ Part 1l -- 


(Note to the Schedule of Prices ) 


NOTE 1.: In case of improved varieties of cotton approved by the State Depart 
ment of Agriculture , if they are certified to have been grown in areas reserved 
by the Agriculture Department of the State concerned for the purpose of pro 
curing pure seed for Sowing and the crop has been duly rogued by removing 
oft - type plants , the basic maximum price specified in column ( 4 ) above. for the 
particular description of cotton shall be decmed to be increased by Rs. 14 .00 
per quintal. ( Rs. 50 per candy approximately ) . This increase will also be 
admissible in respect of Agmarked cotton bearing the Red and Green Labels 
(purity not less than 58 per cent ) . In respect of Cambodia ‘ A ’ Cotton grown in 
the Madras State and certificd by the Department of Agriculture under the 
Supcrior Cotton Certification Scheme, the maximum price specified in Schedule 
A will be increased by Rs. 14 . 00 per quintal (Rs. 50 per candy approximately ) . 
For Agmarked cotton hearing the Black Label (purity not less than 95 per 
cent) , the maximum prices specified in column ( 4 ) above shall be deemed to 
be increased by Rs. 7 . 00 per quintal ( Rs. 25 per candy approximately ) . 


NOTE II: The prices of Bengal Deghi specified in Schedule A shall be in 
creascd by Rs. 9 per quintal (Approximately Rs. 30 per candy ) , if it is saw 
ginned . The premium for saw - ginned cotton over o ler - ginned cotton of other 
staple varieties will be Rs. 14 : 00 per quintal ( Rs. 50 per candy approximately ) 
at the floor level and Rs. 21 . 00 per quintal ( Rs. 70 per candy approximately ) 
at the ceiling level. 


NOTE III : The prices specificd in Schedule A will be reduced for cotton 
which appears to have been deliberately mixed and / or delibe ately watered . In 
such cases , the minimum und maximum prices shall be reduced by an approximate 
amount to be determined by the Committee specified in Schedule B after examin 
ing the sample submitted for survey by the buyer or the seller. 


NOTE IV : The Cotton grown in the Districts of Ahmednagar , Poona and Shola 
pur of Maharashtra State , Bijapur district of Mysore State and Summer Cambodia 
Uganda Crop grown in Madras State and which move in the months of July / 
August will be treated as new crop . 


SCHEDULE B 


Shri R . G . Saraiya, C / M / S Narandas Rajaram & Co. Private Limited , 

Bombay. 
Shri Jehangir P . Patel, C / o M / s Patel Volkart Private Ltd ., Bombay , 
Shri Nariman Contractor, C / O M / s Tata Industries Ltd ., Bombay. 
Shri Pratapsinh Mathuradas C / o Vishnu Laxmi Group of Mills. 9 . Wallace 

Street, Bombay . 
Shri Hansraj Jivandas , c / o M / s Khlmji Visram & Sons, Bombay . 
Shri Tricumdas Chhabildas. C / o M / s Thakersey Moolji Group ni Mills, 

Bombay . 
Shri Manubhat N . Amersey , 0 / 0 M / s Amersey Damodar , Bombay. 
Shri Dayaljibhai G . Patel, Village Delad , Taluka Sayan , Surat District. 
Shri K . M . Patil , Jalgaon ( East Khandesh ). 
Shri Thakur Naharsingh Badnera . 
Shri R . V . Sirur , P .O . Bux No. 18 , Hubli. 

AND 
Shri R . D . Shah , Cotton Adviser, Omce of the Textile Commissioner . 
Bombay . 

( Sd .) R . DORAISWAMY, Textilo Commissioner 


sc. ( ii) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 /ASADH . 25 , 1888 


2059 


ANNEXURE A 
Return in respect of stocks of Indian Cotton at the end of 
respect of this Notification , 


......... ...... in 


Full name of the Licence Holder .. .. . . . .. .. . 


Licence No. A 


Instructions 
1. The quantity of cotton to be shown below shall include both the loose 
ginned cotton and pressed cotton and indicated in inetric bales of 180 kgs . each . 

2 . The description of cotton given hereunder should be in accordance with 
the riescription of cotton lister in Schedule " A " and NOT in any other manner . 

3 . The form below should he Alled in and submitted to reach the Cotton Cell , 
Econvinic Branch , Ofics of the Textile Commissioner Bombay, by the 10th of the 
month following the month to which the return rclates . 

4 . If there are no ligures to he furnished , a NIL Return should invhriably he 
Sent. 

--- - - - -- - - - 
SI. Nu. Description 

Ictual Stocks held on the last day of the Month 
Own A / C Client s A / C 

Total Col. 

- - (5 ) + Col. (8 ) 
Tinsold Sold but not Total Unsold Total 
delivered 

Sold hut 
not de 
liycred 


- 


- - - 


- - - - - 


I 


_ _ 4 _ 


s 


6 


8 


7 


9 


Details as per 
Schedule A 


I do hereby declaro that I have compared the above particulars with the 
records and books of my ciice and that they are , in so far as, I can ascertain 
accurate and complete . 


Dito . . . . . . 


Signature of the Licence-holder . 


Place . . . . . . . . . 


[No, F . 11 ( 1 ) - Tex ( A ) / 66 .] 
T. S . KUNCHITHAPATHAM , Dy . Secy . 


CARDAMOM CONTROL 


New Delhi, the 7th July 1966 


S . O . 2095 . -- In exercise of the powers conferred by suh - section ( 2 ) of scction 
7 of the Cardamom Act, 1965 (42 of 1965 ) , the Central Government hercby ap 
points Shri I. L , Sankaranarayanan , a permanent Section Officer in the Ministry 
of Coinmcrce, New Delhi, as Secretary to the Cardamom Board , Ernakulam , 
with effect from the forenoon of the 29th June, 1966 and until further orders. 


[No. 29 ( 23 ) Plant( B ) /68.] 


B . KRISHNAMURTHY, Under Secy . 


2060 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25, 1888 


(PART II – 


(Оfice of the Jt . Chief Controller of Imports & Exports ) 

(Central Licensing Area ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 6th June 1966 
S . O . 2096 .- - Whereas M / s . Indian Trading Corporation , 69, Najafgarh Road , 
New Delhi or any Bank or any other person have not come forward , furnish 
ing sufficient cause , against Notice No. JCCI. I (CLA ) / 1 - 17 / 65 /59 dated 18th April 
1966 proposing to cancel Licences No. ( 1 ) P / SS / 1522381 / C , dated 21st February 
1984 for Rs 630 fur port of Thread Cutting Dies excluding coventry type of 
dics. ( 2 ) P / SS / 1523665 / C dated 31st March 1964 for the import of Rollcd Nickle 
Anode for Rs. 1200 ( 3 ) P , SS / 1523470 / C dated 31st March 1964 for Rs. 554 for 
import of Rolled Cadmium Anodes, ( 4 ) P / SS / 1535513 / C dated 10th November 
1964 for Rs. 1350 for import of Rollcd Nickle Anodes , ( 5 ) P / SS / 1586813 / C dated 
30th April 1965 for Rs. 623 for import of Rolled Cadmium Anodes , ( 6 ) P / SS / 
1588283 / C dated 15th September 1965 for Rs. 603 for Rollcd Cadmium Anodes 
and ( 7 ) P !SS / 1534350 / C dated 7th September 1964 for Rs. 682 for Thread Cutting 
Dies excluding those mentioned in appendix 15 of the Rad Book granted to gaid 
M / s . Indian Trading Corporation , 69, Najafgarh Road , New Delhi by the Joint 
Chief Controller of Inports & Exports , (Central Licensing Area ) , New Delhi, 
Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce in exercise of the powers 
conferred by the clause 9 of the Import (Control) Order 1955 , hereby cancel 
the aforesaid licences issued to M / s . Indian Trading Corporation , 69 , Najafgarh 
Road . New Delhi. 
M /s . Indian Trading Corporation , .. 
69, Najafgarh Road , 
New Delhi. 

[ No. JCCI. I (CLA ) / I - 17 / 65 /831. ) 

S . K . SEN , 
Jt. Chief Controller. 


- - - - - -- - 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY 
( Indian Standards Institution ) 

New Delhi, the 4th July 1966 
9 . O . 2097 — In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 3 ) of regulation 7 of the Indian Standards 
Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations , 1955 , The Indian Standards Institution hereby 
notifies that the marking fce per unit for bicycle rubber tubes details of which are 
given in the Schedule hercto annexed ,has been descrimined and the fee shall come into force 
with effect from 1 April 1966 . 

THE SCHEDULE 


- 


- - 


SI, 


Product /Class of 

Products 


No, and title of relevant 

Indian Standard 


Unit 


Marking liee per Unit 


1 


2 


3 


I 


Bicycl, rubber tubes 


IS : 2415 - 1963 Specifica - 
tion for bicycle rubber 
tubes 


100 
tubes 


10 paise 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


[No. MD / 18 :2. ] 


s . O . 2098 — In pursuance of sub - rule (1 ) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards Institution 
(Certification Marks) Rules , 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that he $ 1op . 
dard Mark design of which together with the verbal description of the design and the title of the 
relevant Indian Standard is given in thc Schedule hereto annexed , hastcen sfeifcd . 

This Standard Mark for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certificator Merks) 
Act , 1952 , and the rules and regulations framed theieunder , shall come into force with cffcct from i 
April 1966 . 


$ o. 8 (71)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / AŞADHA 25 , 1868 


2061 


THE SCHEDULE 


Design of the 
Standard Mark 


Product /Class of No, & Title of 

Products to Relevant Indian 
which applicable Standard 


Vertal description of the 
design oittie Standard 

Mark 


3 


- 


- 


- 


- 


I 


TS : * 115 


Bicycle rubber IS : 2415 - 1963 Speci - 10 11 orogr: 17 of the 
tuncs fication for bicycle Indian 

Sierderde 
rubber tubes 

Institution consistirg 
of lettcis ISI, disun 
in the exact style and 
relative proportions 
as indicated 111 col ( 2 ) , 
thc nltler des , ration 
of the Indian Standard 
being suscrscribed on 
thic top side of the 
monogram AS indicated 
in the design , 


[No . MD / 17 :21 
D . V . KARMARKAR , 
Deputy Director General (Marks). 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM & CHEMICALS 

New Delhi, the 30th June 1966 
S . O . 2099. - Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the 
Minustry of Petroleum & Chemicals S . O . No. 1360 dated 23rd April 1966 under 
gub - section ( i ) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelincs ( Acquisition of Right of 
User in Land ) Act , 1962 ( 50 of 1962 ), the Central Government declared its 
intention to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule ap 
pended to that notification for the purpose of laying pipelines ; 

And , whcreas , the Competent Authority has, under sub - section ( i) of Section 
6 of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 

And , whereas, the Central Government has, after considering the said report , 
decided to acquire the right of user in lands specified in the Schedule appended 
to this notification . 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( i) of 
Section 6 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right 
of user in the said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notification 
is hereby acquired for laying the pipelines and in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by Sub - scction ( 4 ) of that Section , the Central Government directs that 
the right of user in the said lands, shall instead of vesting in the Central Gov 
ernment, vest on the date of publication of this declaration in the IO . C . Ltd ., 
free from all encumbrances . 

To be Published U /S 6 ( 1) of the P . P . Act, 1962 
State - - Bihar Dist - Patna 

Thina -- Fatua 


Extent in acre 


Village with 
thane No. 


Survey No. 
( Plot No. ) 


Katauna T . No. 132 


84 

0°155 
94 

0 * 17 
97 

O II 
207 

O 07 
[No. 31 (47 ) /63-ONG OR 9A / Pat- Tol. 24.] 

V . P . AGARWAL , Under Secy . 


2062 


TITE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 . 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


[PART II 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 4th July 1966 
S . O . 2100 . - Whereas the Government of India in the Ministry of Health 
and Family Planning has, by notification No . 16 - 22 / 63 -MI(MPT ), dated the 4th 
June, 1964, made in exercise of the powers conferred by the sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 14 of he India Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , recognised the 
medical qualification “ M . D . (Washington University Medical School USA )" for 
the purposes of the said act; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , the 
Central Government hereby specifies the period of two years with effect from 
the date of publication of this order or so long as Dr . (Miss ) L . A . M . Tummers who 
possesses the said qualification and is enrolled as a medical practitioner in accor 
dance with the law regulating the registration of medical practitioners for the 
time being in force in that country , continues to work in the Holy Family Hospital, 
kioderna, Distt. Hazaribagh to which she is attached for the time being for the 
purpose of teaching , research or charitable work , whichever is shortor , as the 
period to which the medical practice of the said Dr. (Miss ) L . A . M . Tummers 
shall be limited , 

[No. F . 19 - 11 / 66 -MPT. ] 
P . C . ARORA , Under Secy , 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & AVIATION 
(Department of Transport, Shipping and Tourism ) 

( Transport Wing ) 

New Delhi, the 5th July 1986 
S . O . 2101, - - In pursuance of the provisions of rule 45 of the Fundamental 
Rules , the President is pleased to makc the following rules governing the allot 
ment of residences to the employecs of the Mangalore Harbour Project, namely : 

1 . Short title , commencement and application , — ( 1 ) These rules may be called 
The Mangalore Harbour Project (Allotment of Residences ) Rules , 1966 

( 2 ) They shall come into furre on the 20th July 1966 . 

( 3 ) These rules shall apply to the allotment of residences to all persons who 
ire employed in the service of the Project. 


2. Definitions... .In thesc rules , unless the context otherwise requires: 
(a ) " allotment" mcans the grant of a licence to occupy a residence in ac 

cordance with the provisions of these rules ; 
( b ) " allotment year " means the year beginning on 1st January or such 

other period us may be notified by the competent authority . 
( c ) " competent authority " means the Chief Engineer and Administrator of 

the Mangalore Harbour Project and includes any ollicer in the 
service of the said Project authorised by him in this behalf by 3 
general or special order to perform all or any of his functions as a 

competent authority under these rules ; 
( d ) " eligible office " menus an office under the Project the staff of which 

has been declared by the competent authority as eligible for accom 

modatlon under these rules ; 
( e ) " emoluments " means the emoluments as defined in Fundamental Rule 

45 - C , but does not include any compensatory allowance : 
Explanation .- - In the case of an employee who is under suspension , the 

emoluments drawn by him on the first day of the allotment ycar 
in which he is placed under suspension , or , if he is placed under 
suspension on the Arst day of the allotment year, the cmolumenty 
drawn by him immediately before that date shall be taken as his 
emoluments ; 


diec. $ ( 11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


2063 


( f ) " family " means the wife or husband , as the case may be, and children , 

step children , legally adopted children , parents , brothers or sisters 

as ordinarily reside with and are dependent on the employee ; 
(c ) Government" means the Central Government; 
(h ) " Project" means the Mangalore Harbour Project; 
(1) Priority date of an employee in relation to type of residence to which 

he is eligible under these rules means the earliest date from which 
be has been continuously drawing emoluments relevant to a parti 
cular type or a higher type in a post under the Project except tor 

periods of leave : 
Provided that in respect of a Type II, Type III or Type IV residence , the 

date from which the employee has heen continuously in service under 

the Central Government shall he his priority date for that Type : 
Providert further that in the case of an employee who is on deputation to 

any foreign service , the period of foreign Service shall, on his re 
posting in an eligible office under the Project, be included for the 

purpose of determination of his priority date , 
Provided also that where the priority date of two or more employees is the 

same, scniority among them shall be determined by the amount of 
emoluments drawn by each such employee , the employee in receipt 
of higher emoluments taking proccuence over the employce in rc 
ceipt of lower emoluments ; and where the emoluments are equal, by 

the length of service under the Project . 
(j) " rent" means the sun of money payable monthly in accordance with 

the provisions of the Fundamental Rules in respect of a residence 

allotted under these rules ; 
(k ) " residence " means any residence for the time being under the adminis 

trative control of the Project; 
( 1) " sub -letting " includes sharing of accomodation by an allottee with 

another person with or without payment of rent by such other person : 
Erplanation . Any sharing of accomodation by an allottee with close 

relations shall not be deemed to be sub - letting . 
( m ) " temporary transfer" means a transfer which involves an absence for 

a period not exceeding four months ; 
(n ) " Transfer" means a transfer from the service of the Project to any 

other service or post ; 
(0 ) " type " in relation 1o an employee means the type of residence to which 

he is eligible under rule 5 . 
3 . Ineligibility to employees owing houses for allotment under these rules. - ( 1 ) 
Io employee shall be eligible for allotment of accommodation under these rules 
or, if he is already in occupation of such accommodation , to its continued reten 
Tion , 11 : — 
( a ) he owns, or has, since the allotment of accommodation under these 

rules , become the owner in full or in part whether in his own name 
or in the name of nuvollier person . nt alini19e which is located with 
In 8 kilo metres of the place of his duty and in which he can , in the 
opinion of the Project, reside consistently with his position as an 

employee of the Projerit ; or 
b ) his wife or any dependient child owns, or has since the allotment of 

accommodation under these rules , become the owner , in full or in 
part, of a house which is located within 8 kilo metres of the place 
of his duty and in which he can , in the opinion of the rompetent 
authority , reside consistently with his position as an employee of the 

Project ; or 
( 2 ) Any employee , who , on any date (hereinafter in these rules referred to as 
the relevant date ) subsequent to the date of his making application for allotment 
of accommodation under these rules heromcs ineligible for such allotment under 
clause ( a ) or clause ( h ) of sub - rule ( 1 ) , sha11 notily the fact to the competent 
authority within 7 period of 7 days of the relevant date . In the event of the 
employee s failure to do so , the competent nuthority may reject the aplication 
for allotment or, if an allotment has already been sanctioned. cancel such allot 
ment, with effcet from the relevant date and require the employee to vacate the 
accommodation So allottert forthwith . 


2064 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


[PART I 


( 3 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - rules ( 1 ) and ( 2 ), the competent 
authority may allot or re -allot accommodation to an employee if : 
( a ) the house owned by him , his wife or any dependent child has been 

requisitioned by Government; or 
( b ) it is proved to the satisfaction of the competent authority that such 

house was given out on lease; 
(1) before the posting of the empioyee for service under the Project; or 
(li ) before the acquisition of such house by him , his wife or any dependent 

child and the competent authority is satisfied that it is not possible 
for the lessor for reasons beyond his control to obtain vacant 

possession oť the house ; 
( c ) the house is or becomes vested in a trust created by the officer after 

obtaining the permission of the Government under the Conduct 

Rules applicable to him ; 
( a ) the house belongs to the employee as a member of a Hindu undivided 

family and the competent authority is satisfied that partition of the 
house by mctcs and bounds is not feasible to make it fit for an in 

dependent residence ; 
1 ) the plinth area of the house is less than one third of the plinth area of 

house of this type to which the employee is eligible under rule 6 . 
( 4 ) Where accommodation under these rules has been allotted or re -allotted 
to an employee under sub - rule ( 3 ) , the employee shall be liable , with effect from 
the date specified in the order of alltoment or re -allotment, to pay standard rent 
under Fundamental Rule 45 - B or standard rent under Fundamental Rule 45 - A 
plus 33 1 / 3 per cent thereof or poo . ed standard rent under Fundamental Rule 
45 - A plus 33 - 1 / 3 per cent thereof where the rents have been pooled or 10 per cent 
of his emoluments , whichever is the highest , for so long as he or his wife or any 
dependent child , as tlie case may be, is unable to obtain vacant possession of the 
house . 

( 5 ) If at any time It appears to the competent authority that no efforts have 
been made to obtain vacant possession of the house, it shall be open to him to 
give suitable directions as to the steps to be laken to obtain vacant poszussion of 
the house, and if such directions are not complied with , to cancel the allotment 
and to require the allottee to vacate the accommodation forthwith , or to chargt 
rent for the accommodaion , under he Government of India decision ( 2 ) below 
Fundamental Rule 45 - B or twice the standard rent under Fundamental Rule 45 - A 
or twice the pooled standard rent under Fundamental Rule 45 - A where rents have 
been pooled or 15 per cent of his emoluments , whichever is the highest . 

(6 ) The allotment of an employee to whom the provisions of clause ( a ) or (b ) 
of Sub - rule ( 1 ) apply shall be cancelled with cffect from the date spccified in 
the order of cancellation . It shal, however , be open to the competent authority 
to allot or re - allot accommodation to the employee on payment of rent under 
Government of India decision ( 2 ) below Fundamental Rule 45 - B Or twice the 
standard rent under Fundamental Rule 45 - A or twice the pooled standard rent 
under Fundamental Rule 45 - A where the rents have been pooled or 15 per cent 
of his emoluments , whichever is the highest. 
Explanation I. - - In this rule , an employee is said to own a house in the 

name of any other person If the employee has acquired or transfer 

red a house in the name of such other person 
(1) without intending thereby to benefit such other person ; and ( 11) the em 

ployee is in actual or constructive possession of the house or enjoy8 

Its rents or proflts . 
Explanation II, - For the purpose of this rule , an employee shall be deemed 

to be the owner of a house if he is in possession thereof under en 

agreement of sale although the title has not been conveyed to him . 
4 . Allotment to husband and wife. -- Eligibility in cases of employees who are 
married to each other : --- 
( 1) No employee shall be allotted a residence under these rules it the rite 

or the husband , as the case may be, of the employee has already been 

allotted a residence , unless such residence is su rendered : 
Provided that this sub - rule shall not apply where the husband and wife 

are residing separately in pursuance of an order of judicial separa 
tion made by any court, 


SEC . B/0 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 /ASADHA 25 , 1888 


2065 


( 2 ) Where two employees in occupation of separate residences allotted un 

der these rules marry each other , they shall within one month of the 

marriage , surrender one of the residences , 
( 3 ) If a residence is not surrendered as required by sub - rule (2 ) above, the 

allotment of the residence of the lower type shall be deemd to have 
been cancelled on the expiry of such period and if the residences 
are ol the same type , the allotment of such one of them as the com 
petent authority inay decide shall be deemed to have been cancelled 

on the expiry of such period . 
( 4 ) Where both hushand and wite are cmployed under the Project, the title 

of each of them to allotment of a residence under these rules shall 

be considereri independently , 
5 . Classification of residences - --Save as otherwise provided by these rules , an 
enployee shall be eligible for allotment of a residence of the type shown in the 
table below : 


Type of 
residenc . , 


Category of employee or his monthly emlumcits as on the first day 
of the allotmont year in which the allotm : nt is made 


- -- 


I 


Less than Rs . 10 / 
Less than Rs. 259/ - but not less than Rs . 110 ) - 
Less than Rs. 400 /- but not less tha n Rs. 250/ 
Less than Rs. 700 / - but not less than Rs. 400 / 
L - 39 th in Rs. 1337 /- but not less than Rs. 700 / 
Leo : than Rs , 2250 /- but not less than Rs. 1350 / 
Rs . 225 - /- and above . 


VII 


NOTE .-— If sulficient number of employces who are eligih e for a particular 

type of residence are not available , the quarters of the type may be 
allotted to other employees who are eligible for the next higher or 
lower type of residence subject to the condition that, as and when 
eligible employees become available , the residence 80 Allotted shall 

be vacated by such allottees. 
8 . Application for allotment. - ( 1 ) An employee who seeks allotment of regi 
dence or the continuance of allotment of a residence which has been allotted to 
him , may apply at any time and shall apply in that behalf , to the competent autho 
rity when directed by him to do so , and in such form and in such manner and by 
such date as may be prescribed by the competent authority , 

(2 ) All applications received otherwise than in pursuance of a direction issued 
under sub - rule ( 1) shall be considered for allotment in the succeeding month it 
such application has been received before the 20th day of a calendar month . 

7. Allotment of residences and offers . - ( 1 ) Save as provided in these rules, a 
residence, on falling yacent, shall be allotted by the competent authority to an 
applicant having the earliest priority date for that type of residence subject to 
the following conditions: 
(1) The competent authority shall not allot a residence of a type higher 

than that to what the applicant is eligible under rule 5 . 
(11) The competent authority shall not compel any appilcant to accept a 

residence of a lower type than that to what he is eligible under 

rule 5 . 
( 111 ) The competent authority on request, from an applicant for allotment 

of a Jower category of residence might a lot to him a residence of any 
type below the type for which the applicant is eligible under rule 6 

on the basis of his priority date for the same, 
( 2 ) The competent authority may cancel the existing allotment of an employee 
and allot to him an alternative residence of the same type or in emergent circu 
stances an alternative residence of any type below the type of residence in occu 
pation of the employee if the residence in occupation of the employee is required 
to be vacated . 


2066 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIT : JULY 16 , 1966/ ASADHA 25 , 1888 


(PART II 


( 3 ) A vacant residence may , in addition to allotment to an employee inder 
sub - rule ( 1 ) be offered simultaneously to other eligible employees in order of their 
priority dates . 

( 4 ) If the competent authority is satisfied that in the interest of the Project 
work it is necessary that any residence should be allotted jointly to two or more 
employees , he may do so . 


8 . Maintenance of separate pools of residence for certain categories of em 
ployees, 

( 1 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules , the following pools of 
residence shall be maintained , namely : 

(i ) Residence for the Chief Engineer and Administrator , 
(iil Pool for the Superintending Enginects, the Executive Engineers, the 

Chief Arcounts Officer and the Scrretary of the P : oject , 
( iii ) Pool for lady emplovecs except for those who are married and whose 

husbands are e igible for allotment under these rules . 
( 2 ) The numher and type of residences to be placed in these pools shall be 
determined by the competent authority from time to time. 

( 3 ) The Inter se seniority of the employces cligible for allotment of residences 
under these rules shall be determined in accordance with the dates of thcir appoint 
ment to the posts which entitle them for consideration of allotment of residences 
included in the pool. 

9 . Out of turn Allotments . - ( 1 ) Notwithstanding the provisions of rule 7, allot 
ment of a residence may be made by the competent authority on out -of- lurn basis 
to an employce on grounds of serious i lness of solf or a niombe of his family in 
consultation , if considered necessary , with the prescribed medical authority . The 
priority for allotment in such cases shall be the date on which the application of 
the employee for out-of- turn allotment is received by the competent authority . 

( 2 ) The Chief Engineer and Administrator may allot any residence out - of - turn 
in special cases considering the nature of dutics , conditions of deputation , etc . of 
the cmployees concerned , 

10 . Non -acceptance of allotment or offer or failure to occupy the allotted resi 
dence after acceptance . - ( 1 ) If an employec fails to accept the allotment of a resi. 
dence within 5 days or , fails to tale possession of the residence after acceptance 
within 8 days, from the date of receipt of the letter of allotment, he shall not be 
eligible for another allotment for a period of one year froin the date of allotment 
letter 

( 2 ) If an employec occupying 1 lower type of residence is allotted or offered 
a residence of the type for which he is eligible under rule 5 or the lower type, he 
may , on refusal of the said allotment or offer of a lotment, be permitted to conti 
nue in the previously allotted ifsidence on the following conditions, namely : - 
( a ) that such an employee shall not be eligible for another allotroont for 

a period of one year from the date of allotment Jetter for the higher 

class of accommodation ; 
( b ) while retaining the existing residence he shall be chargest the same 

rent which he would have had to pay under Fundamental Rule 45 - A 
in respect of the residence so allotted or offered or the rent payable 
in respect of the residence Already in his occupation , whichover is 

higher ; 
( c ) refusal of allotment made under suih - rule ( 4 ) of rule 7 shall not mean 

refusal of allotment for the purpose of this rule. 
11. Period for which allotment subsists and the concessional period for further 
retention ( 1 ) An allotment shall be effective from the date on which it is accept 
ed by the employee and shall continue in force until, 
( a ) the expiry of the concessional period perinissible under sub - rule ( 2 ) 

after the employee censes to be on duty in an eligible office under the 

Project ; 
( b ) it is cancelled by the competent authority or is deemed to have been 

cancelled under any provision in these rules ; 
( c ) it is surrendered by the employee ; or 
( d ) the employec ceases to occupy the residence . 


SEC . 3( ii )] 


I HE GAZETI E OF INDIA : J(11.X 10 , 1900 /-AS.ADHA 25 , 1888 


2067 


( 2 ) A residence allotted to an employee may , subject to sub - rule ( 3 ) , be re 
tained on the happening of any of the events specificd in column 1 of the Table 
below for the period specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 thereof, pro 
vided that the residence is required for the bona fide use of llie eniployee or mt m 
bers of his family . 

TABLE 


Events 


Permissible period for retention 

the residence. 


of 


1 month . 
2 months. 
4 months. 
2 months. 


? nonths. 


Period of temporary transfer or depu 
lation . 


( i ) Resignation , dismissal, l emoval 

terminalion of service . 
(ji ) Retirement or terminal leuve 
( iii ) Death of the alloitee. 
( ivi Transfer to a wluce outside the 

Project, 
( v ) On procecaling on ſo . cign Sere 

vice in india 
( vi ) Temporary transfer in India or 

deputation to a place outside 

India . 
( vii ) Leave (other than leave pre 

paratury to retirement. re 
fused leave, terminal leare , 
medical leave or study 

leave ) . 
( vii ) Leave preparato y tu retire 

mcnt or refused leave grant 
ed under Fundamental Rule 

86 . 
( ix ) Study lºve er deputation oul 

sicle Inicia . 


For the pe iod wf leave but not ex 
ceeding 4 montis . 


For the full period of leave on full 
average pay subject to a maximum of 
4 months inclusive of the period per 
missible in the case of retirement. 
For the pcriod of leave hut not ex 
cceding 6 months, 
For the period of leave but not ex 
ceeding 6 months. 
For the l ull period of leave. 
For the full period of training , 


( * ) Study leave in India . 
( xi) Leave on medical grounds 
( xji) On proceeding on trainine . 


Explanation . - The period permissible on transfer mentioned against items ( iv ) , 
( v ) and ( vi) shal} count from the date of relinquishing charge plus the period of 
Icave, if any, sanctioned to and availed of hy the employee relore joining duty at 
the new office . 

( 3 ) Where a residence is retained under sub - ule ( 2 ) , the allotment shall be 
deemed to be cancelled on tha cxpiry of the admissible concessional period unless 
immediately on the expiry thereof the employce resumes duty in an eligible office 
under the Project. 

(4 ) An employec who has retained the residence by virtue of the concession 
inder Item ( 1 ) or item ( ii ) of the Table below sub -rule ( 2 ) , shall, on re - employ 
ment in an eligible office under the Project within the period specified in the 
said Table , be entitled to retain that resilence and he shall also be ellgible for 
any further allotment of residence : 

Provided tliat if the emoluments of the employee on such re - employment do 
not entitle him to the type of residence occupied by him , he shalį be allotted a 
lower type of residence on the occurrence of a vacancy . 

12 . Provisions relating to rent. — Where all allotinent of accommodation or 
alternative accomninodatiur has been accepted , the liability for rent shall 
commence from the date of urrupation or the eighth day from the date of receipt 
of the allotricht letter , whichever is carller . 

( 2 ) An employee who , after acceptance, fails to take possession of that accom 
muxlation within 3 days from the date of reruipt of the allotment letter , shall be 
charged rent ( 107 such date up to a perio l of one month or up to the date of 
re -allotment of that particular accommodatio , whichever is earlier . 

( 3 ) Where an employee, who is in occupation of a residence is allotted an 
other resilence and he couples the new residence , the allotment of the former 
resicience shall br deeinerl to be cancelled from the day of occupation of the new 


2068 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966/ ASADIIA 25 , 1888 


[PART 11 


residence . He may, however , retain the former residence without payment of 
rent for that day and the subsequent day for shifting. 

13 . Personal liability of the employee for payment of rent till the residence Lg 
vacated and furnishing of surety by temporary employees . ( 1 ) The cmployee to 
whom a residence has been allotted shall be personally liable for the rent thereot 
and for any damage beyond fair wear and tear caused thereto or to the furniture , 
fixtures or fittings or services provided therein by the Project during the period 
for which the residence has been and remains alioited to him , or where the 
allotment has been cancelled under any of the provisions in these rules , until the 
residence along with the oul-houses appurtenant thcreto have been vacated and 
full vacant possession thereof has been restore :1 to the Project . 

( 2 ) Where the employee to whom a residence has been allotted is neither a 
permanent nor a quwsl-permanent einployee 01 the Project , he shall execute a 
Becurity bond in the forın prescribed lil this behalf by the competent authority 
with a surety , who shall be a perinurent einployee of the Projet, for due pay 
ment of rent and other charges due lioin him in respect of sucir residenie and 
services and any other residence provided in lieu . 

( 3 ) If the surety ceases to be in the service of the Project or becomes insolvent 
or withdraws his guarantee or ccases to be available for any other reasons, the 
employee shall furnish a fresh bond executed by another surcty within three 
days from the date of his acquiring knowledge of such event; and if he fails to do 
BO , the allotment of the residence to him shall , unless otherwise decided by 
the Competent authority , be deemed to have been cancelled on the expiry of the 
Mme allowed for the purpose . 


( 4 ) An employee shall render himself liable to disciplinary action and to such 
punishment as may be decided upon by Competent authority in the case of any 
breach of this rule . 


14 . Surrender of an allotment and period of notice. -- An employee inay at any 
Hme surrender an allotment by giving intimation so as to reach the competent 
Authority at least 10 days before the date of vacation of the residence. The allot 
ment of the residence shall be deemed to be cancelled with effect from the eleventh 
day after the day on which the letier is received by the competent authority or 
the date specified in the letter, whichever is later . If he fails to give due notice, 
be shall be responsible for payment of rent for ten days or the number of days 
by which the notice given by him falls short of ten days , provided that if the 
competent authority is satisfed , he may accept a notice for a shorter period . 


15. Change of residence. --- ( 1 ) An employee to whom a residence has been 
allotted under these rules may apply for a change of residence within the same 
type. Not inore than one change shall be allowed in respect of one type of resi 
dence allotted to the employee. 


( 2 ) All applications for change received upto the 19th day of a calendar month 
Bhall be included in the waiting list in the succeeding month . For purposes of 
this rule the employee whose names are included in the waiting list in an earlier 
month shall be senior enbloc to those whose names are included in the list in 
subsequent months. The inter se seniority of the employees included in the list 
in any particular month shall be determined in the order of their priority date. 

( 3 ) Changes shall be offered in order of seniority determined in accordance 
with sub - rule ( 2 ) and , having regard to the employee s preference as far as 
possible. 

(4 ) If an employee falls to accept a change of residence offered to him within 
6 days of the receipt of such offer or allotment he shall not be considered again 
for a change of allotment of that type . 

( 5 ) When the competent authority is satisfied that a change under sub -rules 
( 1 ) and ( 3 ) cannot be given because of practical difficulties , his decision shall 
be inal. 


16 . Change of residence in the event of death of a member of the family . - An 
employee may be allowed a change of residence on the death of any member of 
bis family , it he annlles for a change within three months of such occurrence , 
provided that the change will be given in the same type of residence as already 
allotted to the employee . 


SEQ. ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25, 1888 


2069 


17 . Mutual exchange of residence - Employees to whom residence of the same 
type have been allotted under these rules may apply for permission to mutually 
exchange their residences . Permission for mutual exchanges may be granted , 
If both the employees are reasonably expected to be on duty under the Project 
and to reside in their mutually exchanged residences for at least six months from 
the date of approval of such exchange. 

18. Maintenance of residence . — The employec to whom a residence has been 
allotted shall maintain the residence and premises in a clean condition to the 
satisfaction of the competent authority . Such employees shall not grow any 
tree , shrubs or plants contrary to the instructions issued by the competent autho 
rity nor cut or lon off any existing trce or shruh in any garden , l ourtyard or 
compound atlaclied to the residence save with the prior permission in writing of 
the competent authority . Tree , plantation or vegetation grown in contravention 
of this rule may be causerl to be removed by the competent Authority at the risk 
and cost of the cmployee concerned . 

19 . Subletting and sharing of residences . - ( 1 ) No cinployee shall share the 
residence allotted to him or any of the outhouses , garages and stables appurtenant 
thereto cxcept with the employees of the Project eligible for allotment of resi 
dence under these rules and with the previous sanction of the competent authority 
and under such conditions as he may prescribe. The servants quarters, out 
houses , garages and stables inay be used only for bona fide purposes , including 
residence of the scrvants of the allottee , or for such other purposes as may be 
permitted by the competent authority . 
( 2 ) No employee shall sublet the whole of his residence: 
Provided that an employee proceeding on leave may accommodate in the 

residence any other cmployee eligible for allotment of the accommo 
dation under these rules , as a care - taker , for a period not exceeding 

six months with the permission of the competent authority . 
( 3 ) Any employec who shares or sublets his residence shall do so at his own 
risk and responsibility and shall remain personally responsible for any rent pay 
able in respect of the residence and for any damage caused to the residence or 
Its precincts or grounds or services provided therein by the Project beyond fair 
wear and tear. 

20. Consequences of breach of rules of conditions. - ( 1 ) The following penalties 
may for good and sufficient reasons , be imposed by the competent authority , 
namely : 
( 1 ) If any employee to whom a residence has been allotted unauthorisedly 

sublets the residence or charges rent from the sharer at a rate which 
the competent authority considers excessive , or crects any unauthori 
sed structure in any part of the residence , or uses the residence or any 
portion thereot for any purposes other than that for which it is 
ineant, or tampers with the electric or water connection , or commits 
any other brcach of the rules , or the terms and conditions of the 
allctment, or uses the residence or premises or permits or suffers 
the residence or premises to be used for any purnosc which the 
competent authority considers to be improper, or conducts himself in 
a manner which in his opinion , is prejudicial to the maintenance of 
harronious relatio ! s with his ncighbours or has knowingly furnish 
cul fucorrect information in any application or written statement, 
with a view to securing the allotment, the competent authority may 

cancel the allotment of the residence , 
Explanation : In this clause, the expression " employec" includes, unless the 

context otherwise , requtrcs, a member of his family and any person 

claiming through the cmployee. 
ii ) If the employce has in any application of statement suppressed any 

material fact , the competent authority may cancel the allotment with 
ellect from the date he became incligible for allotment of the accom 

modation under these rules . 
( 111 ) If an employee sublets a resideiice allotted to him or any portion there 

of or any of the outhouses, garages or stables appurtenant thereto , 
in contravention of these rules, he may, without prejudice to any 
other action that may be taken against him be charged enhanced rent 
not exceeding 4 times the standard ront under Fundamental Rule 
45 - A . The quantum of rent to be recovered and the period for which 


TIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25, 1888 


[Part 11 – 2070 


the same may be recovered in each case will be decided by the 
competent authority on merits . In addition the employee may be de 
barred also from sharing the residence for such specified period as 

may be decided by the competent authority . 
( 2 ) Where action to cancel the allotment is laken on account of unauthorised 
sublelting of the premises by the allotttee , a period of sixty days shall be allowed 
to the aliotlee and any other person residing with him therein to vacate that pre 
mises . The allotment shall be cancelled with etlect from the date of vacation of 
the premises or expiry of the period of sixty days from the date of the orders for 
the cancellation of the allotment, whichever is earlier, 

( 3 ) Where the allotment of a residence is cancelled for conduct prejudicial to 
the maintenance of harmonious relations with neighbours , the employce at the dis 
cretion of the competent authority may be allotted another residence in the same 
type at any other place , 

(4 ) Thę ( onpetent authority shall be competent to tuke all or any of the actions 
under sub -rules ( 1 ) to ( 3 ) of this rule and also to declare the employee , who 
commits a breach of these rules and instructions issued to him , to be ineligible for 
allotment oť residential accomodation for a period not exceeding three years , 

21. Overstayal in residence after cancellation of allotment: Where atter an 
allotment has been cancelled or is deemed to be cancelled under any provision 
contained in these rules , the residence remains or has remainerl in Occupation of 
the einployee to whom It was allotted or of any person plaiming through him , such 
cmployee shall be liable to pay damages for use and occupation of the residence , 
services , furniture and garden charges, equal to the market reut as may be deler 
mined by the competent authority from time to time; 

Provided that an employee , in special cases, may be alluwed by the competent 
authority , to retain a residence on payment of twice the standard rent under 
Fundamental Rule 45 - A , or twice the Poolcd standard rent under Fundamental 
Rule 45A , whichever is higher , for a period not exceeding six months. 

22 . Continuance of allotments made prior to the issue of these rules . - Any 
valid allotment of residence which is subsisting immediately before the commence 
ment of these rules under the rules then in force shall be deemed lo be an allot 
ment duly made under these rules notwithstanding that the employee to whomi 
it has been made is not entitled to a residence of that type under rule 5 and all 
the preceding provisions of these rules shall apply in relation to that allotment 
and that employee accordingly . 

23 . Interpretation of rules . If any question arises as to the interpretation of 
these rules , the same shall he decided by the competent authority . 

24 . Relaxation of rules . The competent authority may for rcasony to be 
recorded in writing , relax all or any of the provisions of the rules in the case of 
any elnployee or residence or class of employces or type of residences. 

[No. 5 - 1 6 ( 21 ) / 64 .] 


N . S . GHOSH , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 7th July 1966 


S . O . 2102 . - In exercise of the power s conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 5 
of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 , the Central Government has been pleased to ap 
point Shri R . Rangarajan , Under Secretary Ministry of Transport ( Transport 
Wing ) , New Delhi us Regional Officer , Central Board of Film Censors , Madras with 
elect from the afternoon of 30th June, 1986 , pice Shri K . Kasipati. 


[No. 2 / 1 / 16 -FC .1 


KARTAR SINGH , Under Secy . 


2071 Sec . $( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADIIA 25, 1818 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR , EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 

( Department of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 5th July 1966 
S .O . 2103 , - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section 1 of Section 6 
of the Mines Act, 1952 ( 35 of 1952 ) , the Central Goyernment hereby appoints Shri 
B . K . Basu as Inspector of Mines subordinate to the Chief Inspector of Mines and 
makes the fo lowing further amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment S . O . 531, dated the 2nd March , 
1961, namely :-- - 

In the said notification , the following entry shall be added at the end. 
namely - 
" ( 89 ) Shri B . K . Basu ." 

[No. 8 /4 /66 - MI.] 


New Delhi, the 6th Juin 1966 
S . O . 2104 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule . ( 3 ) vf fule 1 of 
the Mincs Vocational Training Rules, 1966 . the Central Government hereby 
appoints the 1st day of August , 1986 , as the date on which the provisions of the 
said rules , except rulu 9 , shall come into force in respect vf the coal mines 
situated in the States of Bihar and West Bengal 

[No. 34 / 1 / 65 - MI. ] 
R . C . SAKSENA, Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 5th July 1966 
S . O . 2105 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government herehy publishes the following award of the 
Indust- ial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in respect of an industrial dispute between the 
management of the Life Insurance Corporation of India , Muzaffarpur and their 
workmen which was received by the Central Government on the 28th June , 1966 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT 

DHANBAD 
In the matter of a reference under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of The Industrial Dis 
putes Act, 1947. 

REFERENCE NO 77 OF 1964 
PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to Life Insurance Corporation of India , Muzaffarpur, 


AND 


Their Workmen , 
PABHNT: 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad . - Presiding Oſicer . 
AL PEARANCES : 
For the Employers.- - Sarvashri P . K Ghosh , Advocate, Calcutta High Court ; 

D . P . Bhattacharya, N . C . Chakravarty and S . B . Dutt . 
For the Employees. — Sarvashri S . N . Bhaumik and Lala N . Prasad for the 

Union representing the Employees , 
STATE: Bihar. 

INDUSTRY : Life Insurance. 
Dhanbad , dated the 21st June , 1966 , 

AWARD 


By its Order No. 70 ( 5 ) /64 - LRIV dated 27th June , 1964 , the Government of 
India , Ministry of Labour and Employment, referred under Section 10 ( 1 ) (d ) of 


2072 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / AŞADHA 25 , 1888 


[Part II 


The Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 , to this Tribunal for adjudication an industrial 
dispute existing between the employers in relation to the Life Insurance Corpora 
tion of India , Muzaffarpur, and Their Workmen in respect of the matter specified 
in the Schedule annexed to the order of reference, which is reproduced below : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the demand of the Muzaffarpur Division Insurance Employees 

Association for absorption and confirmation of the undermentioned 
employees and for the grant of benefits as admissible to Class IV 

staff is justified ? 
1. Shri Laxami Prasad . 
2 . Shri Banti Prasad . 
3 . ShiGour Gopal Roy . 
4 . Shri Shyam Chandra . 
5 . Shri Lal Jha. 
6 . Shri Balbhadra . 
7 . Shri Krishnandan Pa . 
8 . Shri Sarjug Şingh . 
9 . Shri Rabindra Nath Thakur. 
10 . Shri Arjun Prasad . 
11 . Shri Kamal Mehto . 
12. Shri Mahabir Sah . 
13 . Shri T . N . Das. 
14 , Shri Mohan Prasad , 
15 . Shri Ram Murti Rai, 
16 , Shri Ram Udar Singh . 
17 . Shri Bishwanath Manda . 
2 . If so , to what relief are all or any of the workmen entitled and from 

which date ? " 
2 . On 21st June, 1966, both the parties appeared and filled a joint petition of 
compromise dated 21st June , 1966 , signed by Shri Deba Prasad Bhattacharjee , 
Constituted Attorney , on behalf of the Life Insurance Corporation of India , and, 
by Shri Lala N . Prasad , Vice - President for General Secretary, Muzaffarpur Divi 
sion Insurance Employees Association , and prayed that an award in terms of the 
said compromise, which is marked Annexure A , be made and the said award be 
made effective with effect from 1st July , 1966 . 

3. I have read the terms of the agreement Annexure A and, in my opinion , 
they are quite fair and reasonable and , therefore , I accept them and record the 
compromise , 

4 . The result , therefore , is that the reference is disposed of in terms of the 
compromise dated 21st June, 1966 , marked Annexure A , and an award in terms 
of the compromise Annexure A is made and the said compromise Annexure A 
is made a part of the said award and this award is made effective, ag jointly 
prayed by both the parties and as mentioned in the compromise , with effect from 
the 1st July , 1966 . 
5. This is the award which I make and submit to the Central Governinent. 

Sd ./ - RAJ KISHORE PRABAD , 

. Presiding Officer . 

ANNEXURE A 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD . 
In the matter of Order of Reference by the Ministry of Labour and Em 

ployment, Government of India , New Delhi, dated the 27th June 
1964 . 

AND 

Reference Case No . 77 of 1964 
In the matter of Industrial Dispute. 

BETWEEN 
The Life Insurance Corporation of India , 

AND 


Their workmen represented by the Muzaffarpur Division Insurance Em 

ployees Association . 


SEC. 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


2073 


The humble petition of the parties above - named most respectfully . 
Sheweth : 

1 . That the parties above -named have amicably settled the above -mentioned 
disputes on terms and conditions set forth hereinunder : 


Terms of Settlement 
(al It is agreed that all the 17 daily - rated sub - staff involved in the above 
reference, ( As per Annexure I ) who are at present engaged by the Corporation , 
will be absorbed in the regular C ass IV cadre of the Corporation in the Muzaffar 
pur Division without prejudice to the provisions of the Staff Regulations. 


( b ) The above absorption is the regular Class IV cadre in the service of the 
Corporation will be effective on and from 1st July , 1966 , subject to medical fitness 
and such absorbed employees will be deemed to be confirmed in the service of 
the Corporation , waiving the probationery period , with effect from the said date 
of absorption , that is , 1st July , 1966 . 


2 . It is further agreed that such of the within -mentioned 17 daily -rated sub 
staff, who are to be appointed in the regular Class IV cadre in the manner stated 
above, fail or refuse to accept the appointments on the terms offered including 
the place of posting in the Muzaffarpur Division , shall have their services termi 
nated forthwith without any consideration whatsoever . 


3 . The within -mentioned 17 daily - rated sub - staff to be appointed on regular 
basis in the Corporation from the prospective date , that is , 1st July , 1966 , shall 
not be entitled to payment of any arrears of emoluments other than what have 
been provided for in this Terms of Settlement or any other benefits for their past 
association with the Corporation such as leaye , Provident Fund etc ., They 
should be entitled to the benefits admissible to the permanent employees of the 
Corporation from the date of their appointment in the Corporation on confirmed 
basis i.e ., from 1st July , 1966 . 

4 . It is further agreed that an ad hoc lump sum ex - gratia amount of Rs. 750 
( Rupees Seven hundred and fifty only ) will be paid to each of the 17 daily - rated 
sub - staff to be absorbed in the regular service of the Corporation in the manner 
indicated herein above . Those who would refuse to accept the employment 
under the Corporation would not be eligible to the aforesaid ex - gratia payment. 

5 . It is further agreed that the bonus for the years 1962, 1963, 1964 , 1965 if not 
paid , and upto 30th June , 1966 , will be paid to such of those daily - rated sul - staff 
proposed to be absorbed on their satisfying the twin conditions of being in con 
tinuous service in the Corportion for a period of 6 months and also continuing to 
be engaged on 31st December of each of the said years at the rate applicable to 
such daily - rated sub - staff under the ru es of the Corporation . On and from 1st 
Jui" , 1966 , such daily - rated sub - staff so absorbed in the regular service of the 
Corporation will be entitled to bonus as per rules applicable to the permanent 
employees of the Corporation . 


6 . All appointments shall take effect only after the within -mentioned daily 
rated sub - staff , so absorbed , report and join in their respective offices of posting . 
The payment of ad -hoc ex - gratia umpsum amount as also bonus, as aforeraid 
will be paid to them only after they have reported to their respective offices of 
posting within Muzaffarpu " Division as per lette " . " . 

" 2 issued to 
them and have duly accepted the appointment : : 


7 . It is also agreed that the aforesaid daily - rated sub - staff who are to be 
absorbed in the regular class IV cadre of the Corporation in terms of settlenent 
hierein will be subject to the rules and regulations governing the terms and con 
dirionis of service of the employees of the life Insurance Corporation of India 
the parties in the proceedings , 


8 . The above agreement is without prejudice to the rights and contentions of 
The parties in the proceedings . 


In the circumstances your petitioners pray that an Award in terms of the 

Settlement herein entered into by the parties above-mentioned be 
passed and such further or other order or orders be passed as this 
Hon ble Tribunal may deem fit and proper . 


4720 


TIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


[PART II 


And your petitioners as in duty bound shall ever pray . 
Life Insurance Corporation of India , 

Sd . / 
By DEBA PRASAD BHATTACHARYYA , 
Constituted Attorney . 

Sd . - LALA N . PRASAD, 
Vice -President , 

Vice- President, 
Muzaffarpur Division Insurance 

Employees Associaliun . 
Dated the 21st June, 1966. 

ANNEXURL 
List of Stevenson daily -rated sub - staff on Aluzaffarpur Division inzulc e in Pif2712.60 

No. 77 of 1964 . 


Nim . 


First day of engagement 


» 


I , Sri Lakshmi Prasad 

Shyam Chandra 
Banti Prasad , 
Lal Jha 
Gour Gopal Roy . 
Balbhadra Lal . 
Krishna Nandan Pd . 
Saryug Singh 
Rabindra Nath Thakur 
Arjun Prasad 
Mahabir Sah (Samastipur ) . 
T , N . Das (Madhubuni) . 
Ram Murti Rai Hajiput) . 
Mohan Prasad (Bettiah ) . 
Ram Udgar Singh (Durblanga ) . 
Biswanath Mandal . 

. 
17 . » Kamal Mahto , , , , 


Tririmtncrage 


27th April, 1962 
18th April, 1961 

18th Jan ., 1961 
611 March , 1962 

I 6th May, 1962 
. 29th June, 1907 
: 19th April, 1903 

4th April , 1962 
5th Scpl., 1963 

23rd Sept., 1963 
, 1st July , 1962 

7th Sept. 1962 
• 5th Sept. , 1962 
, 25th May , 1962 
, 18th Jan . , 1962 
. 22nd Junc, 1962 

5th Jun ., 1963. 


12 . 


14 . 


C 


Life Insurance Corpo . ation of India 


By 


Sal 


Sd / 


DEDA PRASIAD BHATTACHARJEE 

LALA N . PRASAD 
Constituted Attorney 

Vice Prcsident 
21 - 6 -66 
for General Secretary, Muzaffarpur Division 
Insurance Employees Association . 

21- 6 -66 

[No . 70 (5 )/ 64 -LRIV.] 
New Delhi, the 11th July 1966 
S . O . 2106 .- In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) the Central Government hcreby publishes the following award of the 
Industıial Tribunal, Bombay in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to Messrs . Great Eastern Shipping Company Limited , Bombay and their 
workmon , represented by the Transport and Dock Workers Union , Bombay which 
was received by the Central Government on 2nd July , 1966 . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT 

BOMBAY 

REF . No . CGIT -57 OF 1965 
PARTICS : 
Employers in relation to Messrs. Great Eastern Shipping Co ., Ltd . 

AND 
Their workmen , represented by the Transpo - t and Dock wurkers Union . 

Bombay. 


Sec . 3( il)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 /ASADHA 25 , 1888 


2075 


PRESENT: 

Shri Salim M . Merchant - Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 
For the Employer Company). — Shri K . M . Deseai, Advocate Supreme Court, 

with Shri L . V , Uliamsingh - Personal Oficer . 
For the Transport and Dock Workers Union - Shri S . R . Kulkarni. Secretary 
and Shri R . A . Pandit, Asstt. Secretary . 

Bombay , Doted 30th June, 1966 
INDUSTRY: Major Port & Dock . 

STATE : Maharashtra . 

AWARD 
1 . On the joint application of the partics , the Central Government by the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment s Order No. 28 / 81 /65 - LR .IV , dated 31st 
August, 1965 made in exercise of powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 
10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , was pleased to refer the indus 
trial dispute between the partics above named in respect of the subject matter 
specified in the Schedule to the said order , to me for adjudication 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the Dock Employees including the Daily rated workmen employed 

by Messrs . Geat Eastern Shipping Company Ltd ., Bumbay, are en 
titled to additional dearness allowance, as demanded by the Union , 
vide its letter No. TD / 183 / 765 / 65 , dated 5th April, 1965 . addressed to 

the Employers ? If so , from what date ? " 
2 . After the parties had filed tlieir written statements and the dispute was heard 
before me at the adjourned hearing on 29th June, 1965 , the pirties filed a joint 
application reco" ding the terms of settlement that had been reucheri letvi cen thrm 
on the payment of special allowance to the company s dock employees anu prayed 
that an award be made in terris thereof, I copy of the said application is anex 
ed hereto and marked as Annexure A . 

3 . As I am satisficd that the said terms of scti !rment, in the facts and circuns 
tances of this case , arc fair and reason ::ble , I make an award in terms of the set 
tlement as far as the demand under reference is concerned . Payment to be muce 
As stated in the agreement by 10th August, 1966 . 
4 . No order as to costs . 

( Sd.) SALIN M . MERCIANT, 

Presiding Officer, 
ANNEXURE A 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT 

BOMBAY 

Reference No. CGIT -57 of 1965 
PAITIUS : 
Employers in relation to Messi s, Great Eastern Shipping Company Ltd ., 

AND 
Their workmen represented by the Transport and Dock Workers Union , 

Bombay . 
May it please the Tribunal, 

We, the partics abovenamed , have reached the following settlement without 
prejudice to our rights and contentions in this dispute as well as thc dispute in 
Reference No. CGIT - 12 of 1966 and pray that an award may be made in terms 
thereot on the subject matters covered in this reference , 

The management will pay to its montlıly and daily ratecl dock employees the 
following incrcases in special allowance with effect from 1st January , 1065 : 


Pay Range 


Increase in special allowance per month 


Date from rohich to be writ . 


Rs. 70 to 109 
Rs. IJO to 149 
Rs. 150 to 209 
Rs. 210 to 399 
Rs. 400 to 599 


Rs. 7 50 
Rs. 16 50 
Rs. 12 .00 
Rs. 16 .00 
Rs. 35 00 


1 - 1 - 1965. 
I - I - 1965 . 
I - I - 1965 . 
I - I - 1965. 
I - I - 1965. 


2076 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 /ASADHA 25 , 1888 


[PART II 


It is further agreed that the management shall pay to the same categories of 
its dock employees the following further increases in special allowance : 


Pay Range 


Increase in special allowance per month 


Date from which to be pail , 


Rs. 70 to 109 
Rs. 11o to 149 
Rs. 150 to 209 
Rs. 210 to 399 
Rs. 400 and above 


Rs. 5 / 
Rs. 81 
Rs. IY 
Rs. 15 - 
Rs. 20 / 


I - 3 - 1965. 
1 - 3 - 1965. 
I - 3 - 1965 . 
1 - 3 -1965. 
1 - 3 -1965. 


Pay Range 


Increase in special allocanic per month 


Dale from which to be granted . 


Rs. 70 to 109 
Rs. 110 TO 149 
Rs. 159 to 209 
Rs. 210 to 399 
Rs. 400 and above 


Rs. 5 / 
Rs. 8 / 
Rs. 11 / 
Rs. 9 / 
Rs. 10 / 


1 - 12 - 1965 
I - 12 - 1965 
1 - 12 -1965 
I - 12 - 1265 
I - 12 - 1965 


With regurd to the daily raled cock workinen they will be paid per shift the 
above amounts uppropriate to the wage slabs by dividing the enhanced special 
allowance by 26 . 

It is further agreed that tliese additional special allowances shall be treated in 
the same manner as the management has hitherto treated the existing special 
allowance . 

The amounts due to the concerned working under these terms of settlement 
shall be paid before 10th August, 1960, 
Dated at Bombay this 29th day of June, 1966. 

( Sd .) L . V , Uttain Singh 
For the Great Eastern Shipping Company 

Ltd ., Bombay . 
_ (Sd .) S . R . KULKARNI, 
For the Transport and Dock Workers 

Union , Bombay . 

Before me 
(SA ) Salim M . MERCHANT, 

Prosiding Ollicer. 
[ F . No. 28 / 81/ 05 -LR .IV . ] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 6th July 1966 
S . O . 2107 , - Whercas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to Messrs Dharsi Moolji, Bombay 
and their workmen in respect of the matter speciled in the Schedule hereto an 
nexed ; 


And , whercas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
said dispute for udjudication ; 

Now , therсtore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of scction 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Ceniral Guvernment hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the termination of service of Shri Harichandra Narayan Chavan , 
Carpenter with effect from the 1st December 1965 by the management of Messrs 
Dharsi Moolji is justified ? If not to what relief is the workman entitled ? 

[No. 28 (32) / 86 - LRIV . 


S£O . 8(li)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966; ASADHA 25, 1808 


2077 


New Delhi, the 7th July 1980 
S . O . 2108 . — Whcrcas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
Industrial dispute exists or is apprehended between the management of the 
Indian Oxygen Limited , Calcutta , and their workmen in respect of the matter 
specified in the Schedule hcreto anncxed and that the said dispute involves a 
question of national importancc ant that the dispute is also of such a nature 
that industrial establishments situated in more than one State are likely to be 
interested in , or affected by , such dispute ; 
prnous endsợp qu } { CH Lotudo đó sỊ quouuuu0A0p [PI up on seDIRỊA PHỤ 
be adjudicated by a National Tribunal ; 

Now , therefore , in cxercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1A ) of 
section 10 or llie Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby refers the said dispute to the National Tribunal constituted by the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employ 
ment No . S . O . 294 dated the 27th January , 1961, for adjudication . 

SCHEDULE 
Whother the workmen are entitled to a higher bonus than 17, 5 per cent for 
thc year 1964 - 65 , as offered by the management ? If so , what should be the 
quantum of bonus for the said year ? 

[No. 17 / 4 / 68 /LRIV . ) 
New Delhi, the 8th July 1966 
S . O . 2109, - Whereas the employers in relation to the Bombay Port Trust, 
Bombay and the Bombay Port Trust General Workers Union have jointly applied 
to the Central Government for reference of an industrial dispute between them 
to a Tribunal in respect of the matter set forth in the said application and re 
produced in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whercas the Central Government is satisfied that the said Bombay Port 
Trust General Workers Union represents a majority of the workmen ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (2 ) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, 
Bombay constituted under section 7A of the said Art. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether action of the B . P . T , authorities in introducing rotation in respect 

of Diesel Engine Attendants between the Power IIouso and the Salt 
Water Pump House at Butcher Island , with effect from 25th Septem 
ber, 1965, is justified . If not, to what relief are the Diesel Engine 
Attendants concerned entitled ? ? 

[No. 28 (65 ) /66-LRIV. ) 
A . L . HANDA , Under Secy. 


( Department of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 6th July 1966 
$ . 0 . 2110 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal , Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Mahudban Lodna Colliery of Messers Waliram and Company, post 
Office Sharia , District Dhanbad , and their workmen which was received by he 
Central Government on the 4th July , 1966. 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 

In the matter of a Reference under Section 10 ( 1) ( d ) of The Industriyl Dis 
putes Act, 1947. 

REFERENCE NO. 21 OF 1964 
PARTIES : 
The Employers in relation to the Madhuban Lodna Colllery of Mersr : Wall 
pequera 2011SJU 

UBUL ƏHO Jod Kubdwo ) pub UBI 

AND 
Theis Workmon , 


2078 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


[PART II 


PRESENT: 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad . - Presiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers .-- Shri S . S . Mukherjee , Advocate . 
For the Workmen . - Sarvashri B . Lall , Advocate and Gopal Chandre 

Munshi, General Secretary , Khan Mazdoor Cong - ess . 
STATE : Bihar. 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad , dated the 13th May , 1966 . 

AWARD 
Government of India , Ministry of Labour and Employment, by its Order 
No. 2 / 17 /64 -LRII dated the 7th February , 1964 , referred under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) 
of The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, (hereinafter referred to as the Act) , an 
Industrial dispute for adjudication to this Tribunal existing between the emplo 
yers in relation to the Madhuban Lodna Colliery of M / s . Waliram and Com 
pany , P . O . Jharia , District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the schedule annexed to the order of reference, which is reproduced 
below : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the stoppage of Sarvashri ( 1 ) Usman Subjifros , ( 2 ) Ramchandra 

Yadav, (3 ) Indradeo Gond , ( 4 ) Rajnarain Kandu , and ( 5 ) Ramdeo 
Harijan all Prop . Mazdoors of Madhuban Lodna Colliery from the 
18th November, 1963 by the management of Madhuban Lodna Col 
liery of Messrs Waliram and Company , Post Office Jharia ( District 

Dhanbad ) was justified ? If not, to what relief are they entitled ?” . 
2 . A written statement on behalf of the concerned Ave workmen was filed on 
18th March , 1964 , by Shri B . Lall, Secretary , Khan Mazdoor Congress . The 
defence of the union was that these workmen had been illegally and arbitrarily 
stopped from their normal work with effect from 18th November , 1963 , and 
although they reported for duties every day but were not allowed to resume 
their duties ; that the workmen were neither given any notice nor assigned any 
reason for the stoppage of their work against the principles of natural justice ; 
that the workmen of this colliery became members of the Khan Mazdoor Con 
gress in overwhelming majority and they organised a meeting which was addres 
sed by the President of the Union , Shri Prabhu Nath Singh , M . L . A ., Bihar, who 
was also the Chairman , Estimate Committee , Bihar; that due to trade unionism 
of the workmen the management victimised them and the active and vocal work 
men , like the concerned workmen , were picked out and chosen to be victimised ; 
that , therefore the stoppage of work of these concerned workmen was illegal and , 
as guch , the management should be asked to allowed them to resume their duties, 

3. On behalf of Messrs Waliram and Company a written statement was filed 
by Shri Mahendra Pratap , their Attorney , on 16th March , 1965 . The defence was 
as below : 

Messrs Lodna Collicry Company ( 1920 ) Limited are the Owners of Madhuban 
( Londa ) Colliery that M / s . Waliram and Company werc appointed Sole Selling 
Agents and the Raising Contractors of the Madhuban ( Lodna ) Colliery ; that 
Messrs Waliram and Company were sanctioned by the aforesaid Owner of the 
Collicry to depillar coal in patches subject to the sanction / permission of the De 
partment of Mines ; that from the very nature of works undertaken by M / s . Wali 
ram and Company it would appear that they were of a very temporary nature 
and the extent thereof was very fluctuating ; that these five workmen were offered 
temporary appointments (Exts . M . to M . 4 ) as Prop . Mazdoors which they accept 
ed ; that the concerned workmen had put in less than 3 months continuous service 
on 18th November, 1963 ; that as the depillaring of the full section of the Seam , 
namely , about 26 ft. height, in a certain arca of the colliery , was carried on , it 
needed closure proping and as such extra Prop . Mazdoors had to be temporarily 
appointed ; that the Department of Mines restricted the depillaring height of the 
Seam from 26 ft. to 18 it , only and on account of this restriction it was not neces 
sary to do the extensive proping as was required when working full height of 26 ft. 
and thus many of the Prop Mazdoors became surplus; that out of a total strength 
of Prop . Mazdoors the company selected the minimum number who were also 
teniporary and transferred them to West Mudidih Colliery with effect from 18th 
November , 1963, by letters dated 13th November, 1963, Exts. M7 to Ext . M10 ; 
that West Mudidih Colliery is under the Ownership and the management of M /8 . 


SEC. % ( li )] 


TIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / AŞADHA 25 , 1888 


2079 


Waliram and Company , but inspite of it the concerned Prop . Mazdoors did not 
accept the above transfers and thus terminated their appointments ; that as per 
condition of service applicable to the concerned workmen , as they were tempo 
rary , the nianagement was justified in treating their sę . vices us terminated ; and , 
that , therefore , these concerned workmen are not entitled to any relief, 

4 . Shri S . S . Mukherjee , Advocate , represented the management and Sarvashri 
B . Lall, Advocate, and , Gopal Chandra Munshi, Gene : al Secretary, Khan Mazdoor 
Congress, represented the concerned workmen , 

Both parties filed documents , which , with mutual consent, were taken in 
evidence and marked Exhibits . Documents filed by the management was marked 
Erts M IU MI 10 and those Aled by the Union were marked Exts . W to W 2 . 

Both the partics excmined witnesses in support of their respective cases . On 
behalf of the management Shri Ama: nath Sharma, Superintendent of Co lieries 
of Waliran Tancja Group was examined as MW 1 and on behalf of the union 
Shri Ram Chandra Yadav , one of the five concerned workmen , who was Şi. No. 2 
in the Order of Refcrence , was examined as WW1 and Shri Joymurath Singh , 
General Secretary of thc Union and an cmployee of the colliery but not himself 
one of the concerned workmen , was examined as WW 2 . 

5 . The admitted facts are : ( a ) that the colliery is closed, but the dispute is 
whether it was closed on and from 25th July , 1965 , as admitted by the union , or , 
from 18th November , 1963 , as alleged by the management and since when the 
concerned workmen were stopped from work ; ( b ) that M / s . Waliram and Company , 
who were , as admitted by Shri Mukherjee , the Employers of the concerned work 
men also , were entrusted by the Owners of the collicry to depillar the Seam in 
this colliery and , on the admission of MW 1, the dcpillaring operation was started 
at Madhuban Collicry f om 1960 in patches ; ( c ) the height of the depil ering of 
the full section of the Scam was originally 26 ft . in a certain area of the colliery , 
but, subsequently the Department of Mines restricted the depillaring height of the 
Seam from 26 ft . to 16 ft. only , according to the management, and , according to 
the union , from 26 ft. to 19 ft., and , ( d ) that as the colliery was closed , these con 
cerned workmen became surplus. 

6 . On the arguments presented by Shri Mukherjee , on behalf of the manage 
ment, and, by Shri Lall, on behalf of the union , the points , which arise for deter 
mination , are these : - 

( 1 ) Whether the Madhuban (Lodna ) Colliery was closed on and from 18th 

November , 1963 , as alleged by the management, when the concerned 
workmen were stopped from work , or , on and from 25th July , 1965, 

as admitted by the Union ? ; and , 
( 2 ) In cither case, if the concerned workmen are entitled to any relief. 
Point No. ( 1 ) : 

7 . According to both the parties , admittedly , the mine is now closed and it 
has not yet re - opened . According to the management, it closed on and from 
18th November , 1963, because the dcpillaring work with which Messrs Waliram 
and Company were entrusted was completed upto 16 ft. height of the Seam as 
subscqucntly restricted and ordered by the Depa tment of Mines. According to 
the Union , however, the colliery was closed on and from 25th July , 1965 , because 
the subsequently restricted height by the Department of Mines was 19 ft . and 
not 18 ft . to which , it was alleged by the management, it was reduced from the 
original height of 26 it . 

8 I ill, therefore , decide first the question as to whether the collier I was 
closer on and from 18th November , 1963 as alleged by the management, hecause 
11 this case of the inanagement is not accepted , then , because adınittedly the 
Colt " is closed , the date of closure , as given by the union . will have to be 
takc ? : correct . The onus to prove that the colliery was closed on 18th Novem 
ber , 1967), on and from which date the concerned workmen were stopped work , 
becaria the replilaring upto 16 ft., had been completed , as alleged by the 
mangoninent. was on the management. The management has not cared to pro 
duce even the letter of the Mines Department reducing the height from 26 ft. 
to 1: St ., as alleged by the management, and not from 26 ft. to 19ft., as alleged by 
the union . If the letter of the Mines Department would have been produced on 
this question , it would have been the settier of the point, but for reasons besi: 
known to the management, this important evidence has not been produced to 
prove that the case of the union that the height was reduced from 20 ft., to 19 
It., was false and that actually the height was reduced from 26 ft. to 16 It., ag 


2080 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16, 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


[PART II -- 


alleged by the management. In such a state of evidence , arid , due to the omis + 
sion of the management to Ale the best evidence on the point, I am constrained 
to accept the case of the union and to hold that the restricted height was re 
duced from 26 lt.. to 19 ft., as alleged by the union , and , not from 26 ft., to 16 
ft ., as alleged by the management. It is true that the management has examined 
MW . 1, the Superintendent of Collieries, but he has not said any word on the 
question as to whether the height was reduced by the Mines Department from 
20 ft., to 19 ft ., as alleged by the union or from 26 ft ., to 16 it., as alleged by the 
management. There is, therefore, no evidence , cither oral or documentary on 
behalf of the management and the best documentary , evidence in the shape of 
the order of the Mines Department, referred to in paru . 7 of the written state 
ment of the management, was not produced . It is not the case of the manage 
ment that the Nines Departinent orally or on phone informed the management 
that the height has been reduced from 26 ft. to 16 ft . only . On the other hand , 
being asked hy the Tribunal in course of argument Shri Mukherjee admitted 
that there was a written order of the Mines Department, but even then it was 
not produced although asked by the Tribunal orally to do so . In para . 2 of its 
written statement the management admitted that sanction of owners to depillar 
coal in patches was subject to the permission of the Department of Mines. As 
against this absence of evidence on behalf of the management, there is positive 
evidence of WW . 1, Shri Ramchandra Yadav , one of the concerned workman , in 
his cross examination , to thc cffect that the company sought permission to de 
pillar upto height of 26 ft. " It is not a fact that in other places the permission 
of depilloring was upto 16 ſt. height, it was 19 ſt" . 

There is a hidden reason why the managsment seeks to limit the restricted 
height, subsequently reduced from the original height of 26 ft., to 16 ſt. The 
reason is supplied by the evidence of WW . 1 , who said in his cross examination 
that: " If the height is morc, more people and more props are necessary . " The 
maragement. therefore, to justify its case that the colliery was closed on a 
from 18th Novernber, 1963, because the depillaring of the subsequently re - ry . 
height of 16 ft . was finished on that date , allcged the subsequently triir ? IC3 
tricted height to 16 ft ., so that the workmen may become Sur ?. . . . 0 : 1 18th 
November, 1963, otherwise if the subsequently restricted hrtista vuri ne 19 ft . 
then more props and more prop mazdoors would be - Virca to continuc the 
work of depillarug upto 19 ft. and in that casc " : colliery could not be closed 
on 18th November , 1963 , as alleged by the ma: . ement. 

I, thereforc, hold that the case of the union that the height of the depillaring 
section of tho Seam was reduced by the Mines Department from 26 ft. to 19 ft. 
and not from 26 ft. to 16 ſt ., as alleged by the management, is correct. 

9 . In the written statement also of the management I do not find any mention 
of the fact that the colliery was closed on 18th November , 1963 and on that 
date these concerned workmen , therefore, became surplus. What is stated 111 
paras 7 and 8 of the written of the management is that when the Prop . Mazdoors 
became surplus, because the full height of 26 ft . was not required to be depillared 
in that it was reduced to 16 it., the management selerted out ot 19 Prop . Mazdoors , 
the minimum number, including these concerned workmen , and , transferred them 
to West Mulidih Colllery with elect from 8th November , 1963 by a letter dated 
13th November, 1963, which is a form of letter and marked Annexure A in the 
written statement. In the written statement the management pleaded that as 
these workomen did not accept their transfers , these concerned workmen automati 
cally terminated their services , because they refused to joint at West Mudidih 
Colliery cr 18 h November , 1963, when transferred there. Here , however , the 
question of transfer of those concerned workmen as to whether the sald transter 
was legal or illegal, justified or unjustilled , and was the real cause of the ter 
mination of the services of the workmen , is not the subject matter of the re 
ference to the Tribunal, and, therefore , the Tribunal is not concerned with the 
validity or invalidity of these transfers. On behalf of the workmen , WW . 1, 
stateil , as stateni carlier , that " the Company sought permission to depillar upto 
hcight 26 ft . It was not a fact that in other places the permission of depllaring 
was upto 16 ft. height, it was 19 ſt. ” . It may be mentioned that even in the 
letters of transfers Ext. M . 7 to M . 10 , assuming they are ganuine, and were 
issued to the concerned workmen under certificate of posting Exts . M . 6 and M . 6 , 
as alleged by the management, there is 110 mention therein in any of these letters 
as to when the colliery was closed and when these concerned workmen became 
surplus. The only fact mentioned therein is that " services are no more reguired 
at this colliery and you are transferred to West Mudidlh Colliery A9 you are 
surplus here , and , therefore , report for duty to the Manager, West Mudidih 
Colllery , on 18th November , 1963, and , on failure to report for duty at West 


Sec . 8 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


2081 


Mudidih Colliery on the above date , i. e ., on 18th November , 1963, it will be pre 
sumed that you are not interested in employment. There is , therefore , no vi 
dence on behalf of the management that the colliery was closed on 18th Noveni 
ber , 1963, and consequently on that date these concerned workmen became surplus. 

10 . It may futher be mentioned that according to Regulation 6 of The Coal 
Mines Regulations, 1957 , made by the Central Government by virtue of the 
powers conturied un it by Sec. 57 of the Mines Act, 1952 and in supersession of 
the Indiun Coal Mincs Regulations, 1926 , notice of the abandonment or discontinu 
ance of a mine or seam has to be given to the Chief Inspector of Mines und the 
Regional Inspertor of Mirics, stating the reasons for the proposed abandonnent 
or discontinuince and the number of persons likely to be affected thereby . If 
it was a fact, as is the case of the management, that the working of the seam in 
question of tuis colliery was discontinued , because , as alleged by tho managenient, 
the repillariig werk upto 16 ft. height to which it was subscquently restrictid 
and reduced from the original 26 ft. height, was complcted , it was obligatory un 
the manageruert to give a notice of discontinuance of the working of the said 
seam of the collicry , but this was not done. There is no explanation as to why 
this mandatory notice under Regulation 6 , when it was not disputed that the 
conditions envisaged by Regulation 6 were present, was not given . The only 
answer to this question is that this notice was not given , because the rolliery 
was not closed on 18th November, 1963, as alleged by the union . It is not 
necessary to enquire whether such a notice was given on 25th July , 1965, or , 
thereafter , when it is admitted by the union that the colliery was closed on and 
from 25th July , 1905 , and it still remains closed . 


For the reasonis given above , therefore, I hold that the case of the unioti 
that the colllery was closed on and froni 25th July , 1965 , and not from 18th 
November , 1963 , As alleged by the management, is correct. 


Para No. (2 ) : 


11 . The next question is : Are the workmen cntitled to any relicſ , if the col 
Jicry was closcd on 25th July , 1965. If the colliery was closed , as found above on 
25th July, 1965 , and, till 18th Noycınber , 1963, the colliery was not closed , obvious 
ly because the work of depillaring had not been completed , inasmuch as, the 
restricted height was 19 ft., and not 16 ſt., then it must be held that the sioppage 
of work of theje five workmen from 18th Noveinber. 1963 , by the management 
was unjustifed and , therefore, these five concerned workmen will we entitled 10 
their full wages as Prop . Mazdoors for the period from 18th November , 1963 to 
25th July , 1905 , and , thercafter , they will also be entitled to retrenchineat coin 
pensation in accordance with Proviso to Sec. 25 - FFF of the Act . 


12 . While cieciding point No. 2 , above, I have assumed that each of these five 
workmen had been in continuous service for not less than one year immediately 
before such closure, otherwise these workmen would not be entitled to any le 
trenchment compensation either under Sec . 25F or under Sec , 25FFF of the Act . 
Therefore, the question whether all these five workmen had beel in continuous 
service for at less than one year immediately before the closure on 25th July , 
1965, on 18th November , 1963. as alleged by the management under the enployers 
concerned , has to be decided and a positive finding given on this point. On 
the evidence of the only witness of the management MW . 1 , the dcpillaring oper 
ations started at Madhuban Collic y from 1960 in patches, and, during this 
period M / s . Waliram and Company got permission four or five time: from the 
Mines Department as well as the Owners of the colliery to carry on the cepillar 
Ing work . According to paras 3 and 4 of the written stateinent of the inunnge 
ment the very be of works undertaken , namely , to depillar coal in ratches, 
subject to the permission of the Department of Mines, by M / s . Waliram and 
Company, be !ng of a temporary nature , the extent of which varied , and kceping 
in vie ;v the very nature and extent of works of M / s . Waliram & Co., in the 
colliery , which were teinporary and fluctuating these five concerned worlomen 
were offered temporary appointments of Prop . Mazdoors , which chey accepted . 
It is not alleged by the management that these fiye Prop . Mazdoors were appointed 
on a temporary basis in 1960, or 1963, as now alleged , and , sought to be proved 
by Exts . M . to M . 4 . In para 5 of its written statement the management said 
that these concerned workmen had put in less than three months service on 
18th November, 1963. In support of the fact that on 18th November , 1963, these 
fiyc workmen had not put in one years continuous service , and that they could 
not have put in one years continuous service, because they were given temporary 
appointments in 1963 and had put in only 31 months continuous service on 18th 


2082 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 28 , 1888 


[ PART II -- 


November , 1903. the management Alled temporary appointment letters , which are 
Exts. M to M 4 , and which were proved by MW . 1 , who stated that these con 
cernell workman) put their thumb Impressions on these appointment letters Exts . 
M t ) M 4 , in his presence. The union however, challenged these appointment 
letters as faked ones and contender that they had been manufactured for the 
purpose of the present reference . In support of its contention , the union relied 
on certain facts , which throw considerable suspicion on the genuineness of these 
appointment letters Exts . M to M 4 , which are allcged by the manegement to 
have been issuicü in the ordinary course of business on the date and in the year 
alleged . These circumstances are : ( i ) that none of these appointinent letters 
Exts . M to M 4 , bear the signature of the Manager . The explanation for this 
omission , as glven by the union , is that the Munager left admittedly his services 
in this colliery or 25th July , 1965 , and , therefore he was serving elsewhere , and , 
as such , his signature could not have been obtained on Exts . M to M 4 and , 
therefore , MW 1 , hinselt signed all these apointment letters in the p ! - ce rneant 
for the signature of the Manager without using the word for in order to give the 
impression that these appointment letters had been signed by the Manager , 
MW . 1 , stated that because the Manager was on the rolls of the Lodna Colllery 
Ltr ., he signed at the place meant for the signature of the Manager. On this 
question MW . ). was cross examined and he admitted that the colliery had 
a qualifled Manager at Madhuban Colliery , but that admitted qualified Manager 
was not examined by the management in support of Its case that the colliery 
was closed on 18th November , 1963 and that the height was reduced from 26 ft. 
to 18 ft. and not 10 19 ft., and that these concerned workmen were employed 
on teinporary basis in 1963 as sought to be made out and as shown in Exts. M 
to M 4 ; ( 11) MW . 1, has no doubt signed these appointnient letters at the place 
meant for the signature of the Manager, but he has not put any date below 
his signature , as admitted by him in his cross examination , that " none of the 
appointment letters bear any date . No reason iş given by MW . 1 ; as to why he 
did not give any date . The reason is obvious. He was in wardly conscious that 
these appointment letters Ext. M to W 4 , were got up ones and , therefore , on 
pain of being detected , he gave no date to be on the safe side ; ( iii) MW 1 , ad 
mitted that " office clerk used to write particulars in Exts . M to M 4 " , but the 
sgid clerk was not examined by the management to prove the writing in the 
printed temporary appointment forms Exts . M to M 4 ; ( iv ) These temporary ap 
pointment forris Exts . M to M 4 ,, at the bottom contained a column for the 
signature of witness , who was required to sign below the printed certificate : 
" The above terms were explained to the worker in my presence and accepted 
by him " . But none of these appointment letters Exts . M . to M 4 , bear any 
signature of any witness . as admitted by MW . 1 , who stated in his cross examin 
ation that : " Notody signed as witness in the forms M to M 4 as I was present 
personally , ( v ) The thumb impression in Ext . M . 1 , which is of wW 1, appears 
almost blurred and WW . 1 , when examined denied his thumb impression on Ext. 
M . and said that Ext . M . did not bear his thumb Impression and that it is not a 
fact that he was given this appointment letter Ext. M . for three months com 
mencing on 9th September , 1963. No other person was examined to corroborate 
MW . 1 , that wW . 1 , gave his thumb impression on Ext, M , MW 1, on his own 
admission in his cross examination , did not possess any technical qualification 
pertaining to mini. g . The evidence of MW . 1, is , therefore, uncorroborated and 
there is only oath against oath . I find no reason to distrust the evidence of 
WW . 1, on oath that he did not give his thumb Impression on Ext. M , cnd did not 
get Ext. M ; ( vi) The management did not take any step in order to prove the 
genuineness of Exts . M to M 4 , and to get the thumb impressions on Exts M . 2 
and M . 4 , which are clcar, and , to get the signature of Ext. M . 3 , compared by 
any thumb impression expert by asking the Tribunal to call these concerned 
workmen , whose temporary appointment letters are Exts , M . to M , 4 , to give 
their thumb impression / signature before the Tribunal in order to get them com 
pared with their alleged thumb impressions or signatures on Exis . M to M . 4 . to 
establish beyond doubt, that these letters of appointment were genuine . For 
the reasons given above and in view of the above circumstances , I confess my 
conscience is not satisfied and persuaded to hold that these Exts . M . to M . 4 , are 
genuine documents and that they were issued in the ordinary course of business , 
Exts. M to M . , appear to have been written in one sitting and the writings in 
the body of the exhibits also appear to be with one ink and one pen , 


l 


I. therefore , held that Exts . M . to M . 4 , arc not reliable documents on which 
to accept the conteation of the management that these concerned wirkmen were 
temporary employees of the employers concerned and that they had not put in 
more than one year s continuous service on 18th November, 1963, the date of 


Sec . 3 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1898 


2083 


closure, as alleged by the management but only 31 months service on that date . 
It follow s , therefore , that 0 .1 or before 25th July , 1965 , the date of closure of the 
colliery , as found iy mc, these concerned workmen had put in much more than 
one years continuinus service, as required by Sec . 25F or Sec. 25FFF of the Act. 


13 . MW . l , in his cross examination admitted that the Manager of West 
Mudidih Colllery. 1o which collicry these concerned workmen were transferred , 
was not askeri to take any action against these workmen because they were tem 
porary lands nor the colliery in question issued any termination letters to these 
workmen because their services were not terminated . MW . 1, has stated that 
these workmen were transferred to West Mudidih Collicry and in the transfer 
letters Exts . M . 7 to M . 10 , themselves it was mentioned that if they did not join 
it will be presumed that they were not interested in their employment and , 
theretore , when the workmen did not report for duty at Mudidih Colllery of M / s . 
Waliram and Company It was presumed that these workmen were not interested 
in their employirits and , therefore , neither any notice nor any chargcsheet nor 
any letter of terinjnation was issued to the concerned workmen . I may dispose 
of , although it is not necessary , the contention of the union that the transfer 
letters Exts . M . 7 to M . 10 , are also not genuing documents but have been got up 
for the purpose or the present reference . According to the evidence of MW . 1 , 
these letters of transfer Exts . M . 7 to M . 10 , were sent through peon , but they were 
refused and , thereafter they were sent under postal certificates Exts . M , 5 and M 
6 , through the post office . The Peon has not been examined nor the peon -boolc 
has been produced to show that really these letters of transfer Exts . M . 7 to M . 10 , 
were sent through peon , It is also surprising as to why when these letters of 
transfer Exts . M . 7 to M . 10 , were sent through a Peon and were refused , they 
were not sent under registered letters with acknowledgements due, which would 
have proved to the hilt that these letters of transfer Exts . M . 7 to M . 10 , wore 
1ssued and cent to the concerned workmen on 13th November, 1963 , as they purport 
to bear the said date . This was not done. Therefore , the contention of the union 
that these transfer letters Ext . M . 7 to M . 10 , were not sent under registered pçst 
because they were not in existence then but they have been brought into existence 
after the reference and , therefore, the certificates of posting Exts . M . 5 and M . 6 , 
have no value . For these reasons, I am inclined to hold that these transfer letter : 
Exts. M 7 to M . 10 , are not genuine and have been manufactured for the purpose of 
the present reference , but, as I have stated earlier , I am not concerned here with 
the legality or Megality , justifiability or unjustifiability of the alleged transfers , 
when the specific question referred to the Tribunal is whether the stoppage of 
work of these concerned workmen on 18th November , 1963, was justified , 


It is true that on reading the written statement of the management, particularly 
paras 8 to 10 , it appears that the case of the management is that as these workmen 
did not accept their orders of transfer and they did not report at the new colliery 
their services automatically stood terminated , 

14 . The best evidence to negative the contention of the union that these con 
cerned workmen were permanent workmen , some working for more than 31 
years, as deposed to by WW . 2 , & WW . 1, and , as denied by MW . 1 , would have 
been the production of the Form B Register , which is maintained , in every col 
llery and also at this colliery , as admitted by MW . 1 . MW . 1, stated that Form 
B Register of the employees of the colllery , including of the concerned workmen , 
working under the employers concerned , were produced before the Concillation 
Officer , but from the Failure of Conciliation Report dated 15th January , 1964, 
Ext. W . 2 , it appears that this statement of MW . 1 , is not true, because in Ext. w . 
2 . It is spcciacally mentioned that the management neither sent any information 
nor attended noi submitted any written statement as requested before and , there 
fore, there was no representative of the management at all. If that was so and 
if the management non - co - operated with the Conciliation proceedings, I am 
surprised how MW . 1, dared to say that " At times we showed the Form B re . 
gister during the conciliation ." The position , therefore, is that the management, 
though maintained the Form B Register , as admitted by MW , 1, did not produce 
It either before the Conciliation Officer or before the Tribunal, Obviously because 
If produced the case of the union would have been ctablished that each of these 
concerned workmen had been in continuous service for not less than one year on 
18th November , 1963. 


15 . Before the Tribunal, however , it was stated on behalf of the management, 
that there was a theft in the colliery and Form B register , along with serveral 
other registers , were stolen and an information was lodged with the Police , la 
which Form B register was also mentioner as one of the documents stolen . In 


2084 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


[ PART II 


support of this a petition was Aled on 10th June, 1965 , supported by an affidavi! 
and accompanied by a copy of the Sameha lodged , 

On 12th May , 1965 , an objection was filed by thc union against the Sancha and 
the affidavit filed by the management on 10th June 1966 . The Sancha is not a 
certified copy of the original Sancha , obtained through the proper channel. It 19 
typed on the letter hcad of Waliram and Company and noted as " True copy and 
purports to bear the seal probably of the Police Station , Baghmara , Dhanbad . 
In the absence of a certilied copy of the original Sancha , it is very difficult to 
rcly on it. Moreover , there is no documents even in the Shape of oral cvicence , 
as to what was the result of this Sancha, that is whether the story of missing 
of reasons , inciuding Form B register, was found to be true. It is true that 
there is an amcavit by MW . 1, to the effect that amongst records, Form B Re 
gisters were taken away or destroyed by the miscreants on 4th April, 1964. The 
union denied that any Form B Register was found missing. It is true that this 
objection of the union is not supported by an affidavit . But the fact that MW . 1 , 
falsely stated that they (meaning of course himself also ) at times attended the 
conciliation on behall of the management and that thc Form B Register was 
showa during the conciliation , which is falsifcd by Ext. W . 2 . and that the story 
of missing of records took place on 4th April , 1964, but the conciliation took place 
in 1963, clearly go to show that to make up this omission , as an after - thought, the 
story of missing of records, including the Form B Register , was introduced in 1904 
and a Saneha was lodged to that effect. I do not believe the story of missing of 
Form B Register , as made out in the Sancha. In my opinion , the management 
deliberately did not produce it before the Conciliation Officer . When admittedly 
the Form B Register was in possession of the management but now after the 
present reference on 20th February , 1964 , this missing story is introduced in 
April , 1964 , in crder to avoil its procłuction , which if produced would have prove 
the case of the Union . 

18 . For the reasons given above, therefore , I hold that each of these five work 
men had been in continuous service for not less than one year under the en 
ployers concerned on 18th November , 1963, and that they continued in service till 
25th July , 1965 , and therefore, they were entitled also to the retrenchment com 
pensation in accordance with the proviso to Ser , 25FFF of the Act. 

17 . The result, therefore, ts that the reference is answered in favour of the 
workmen by holding that the stoppage of work of Sarvashi ( ii Usman Suhifros , 
( 2 ) Ramchandra Yadav , ( 3 ) Indradco Gond ( ( 4 ) Rajnarain Kandu , and ( 5 ) Ram 
deo Harijan , and Prop Mazdoors of Madhuban ( Lodna ) Colliery , from 18th Novem 
ber, 1963, by the management of Madhuban Lodna Colliery of M / s . Walirain and 
Company , P . O . Jharia , District Dhanbad , was unjustified , arid , therefore, they were 
entitled to their full wages as Prop Mazdoors from 18th November , 1963 to 25th 
July , 1965 , when admittedly thc colliery was closed and when they became surplus, 
and , that thcy were entitled further to retrenchment compensation in accordance 
with the proviso to Sec, 25FFF of the Act. 

18. This is the award whirl I make epit submit to the Central Government 
under Sec. 15 of the Act, 

(Sd.) Rau KISHORE PRASAI), 

Presiding Oficer , 

No. 2 / 17 / 64 -LRII. ] 
New Delhi, the 7th July 1906 


S . O . 2111 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following awaid of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Ramnager Collicry , Post Olce Ramnagar Colliery , District Shah 
dol, Madhya Pradesh , and their workmen which was received by the Central 
Government on the 2nd July , 1966, 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTEAL TRIBUNAL AT 

BOMBAY 

REF . No, CGIT - 63 OF 1965 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Ramnagar Colliery , P . O . Ramnagar , Collicry , 

Dist . Shahdol ( M . P .) , 


AND 


Their workmen . 


SEC. 3ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 ; 1SADHA 2 , 1888 


2085 


- 


- 


- 


PRESENT: 
Shri Salim M . Merchant- - Pie: ding Oflics . 

Boinbay , duted this 30th Duij of June, 1966 
INDUSTRY: Coal Mining . 

STATE : Madhya Pradesh . 
AWARD - PART I 


1 . The Central Government, by the Ministry of Labour and Employment s 
Order No. 5 / 26 / 65 -LRII , dated 13th October , 1965 made in exercise of the powers 
conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 10 of the Industrial Dis 
putes Act, 1947 ( 14 uf 1947 ) , was pleased to refer the industitial dispute between 
the parties abuve named in respect of the subject matter specified in thc Schedule 
to the said order, to me for adjudication . 

SCHILDULE 


" Whether the following workmen of Ramnagar Colliery left their services 

of thcir own accord and if not, whether their demand for reinstate 
ment with back wages from the date shown against each is justified , 
and it so , to what relief arc they entitled ? " 


Name of worlman 


Date of claim 


( 1 ) Nathoo S / o Harilal 
( 2 ) Jagbhan S / o Vishnatlı 
(3 ) Baldey S / o Moti 


24 - 1 - 1965 
24 - 1 - 1965 
24 - 1 - 1965 


2 . Thereafter , the Management of the Riimnagar Collicry , by its allocation 
dated 6th May , 1966 , forwarded to me the memorandum of settlemrut clated 4th 
May, 1966 entered into by the workinan Baley S / o Moti under which the 
Management agreed to re- en ploy him in service from 6th May , 1966 and the said 
worknian Shri Baldey S / o Moti agrced not to have any claim for the past period . 
A copy of the said joint application is annexed hercio and markerl as Annexura 
A . 

3 . The Runinagar Colliery Shramik Sangh which represents the workman , 
has intimated to this Tribunal hy its letter dated 21st June, 1946 that it has no 
objection to the said terms of settlement, 

4 . I, the cfore, accept the settlement alid make an Award Part I in terms 
thereof, as far as the claim of the workman Baldev S / o Moti is concerned 
5 . No order as to costs . 

( Sd.) SALIM M . MERCHANT. 

Presiding Omcor. 


ANNEXURE A 

Dated the 4th May , 1966 
The Memorandum of Settlement arrived hetween the Employer of Mis 

Vindhya Collicrins Private Ltd ., Ramnagar Colliery , Post : Ramnagar 
Colliery , Distt: Shahidul. ( M .P .) 

AND 
Workman , Shri Baldeo S / . Moti (Reference NO, CGJT 63 02 1965 Schedule 

31 Reference No. CGIT 63 of 1965 . 
Both partirs above named beg to submit that they have arrived at an ami 
cable settlement on the following terms; - 

Terms of Settleinent 
1. As desired by thc workman Shri Baldeo S / o Moti ( Refcencc No. CGIT 63 
of 1963 schedule 3 ) the Management has agrced to re -emply him froni 6th May , 
1986 . 


2086 


THE GAZETTE OT INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 23 , 1888 


[PART II 


2 . The workman , Shri Baldco S / O Moti (Reference No . mentioned above has 
also agreed not to have any claim for the past period . 

3. Each party will bear its own costs , 

The parties pray that your honour will kindly accept the above terms of set 
tlement and treat the same as part of the Award . 

And for this, the parties shall ever pray. 
1 . For VINDHYA COLLIERIES PVT. LTD 

( Sd .) 4 - 5 - 1966 
( For Employer ) 

(For Workman ) 
Manager 

Ramnagar Colliery . 
Witness , 

Witness . 
( Sd .) 4 - 5 - 1966 

(Sd.) L . T . I. of BALDEO S /O MOTI. 
Welfare Officer , 

( Sd . Secretary , 
Ram Nagar Collicry . 

Ram Nagar Colliery . 
Shramik Sangh , 
P . O . Ramnagar Collie y , 
Distt Shahdol ( 

MPP .) 

INo. 5 / 26 / 65 -LRII.] 
S . O . 2112 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government horoby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under section 33A 
of the said Act, from Shri Lochhu Rai, Tookman , and 10 others. care of Indian 
Mine Workers Fede ation , Dhanbad , which was received by the Central Govern 
ment on the 29th Junn , 1966 . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DIIANBAD 

In the matter of il Complaint under Sec. 33A of The Inclustrial Disputts Act , 
1947. 

COMPLAINT No . 13 or 1964 

( Arising out of Ref. No. 63 of 1964 ) 
PARTIES : 
Shri Lachu Rai, Hookman , and 10 others . C / o Indian itine Workers Ferle 
ration , Dhanbad - Complainants . 

Vs. 
Agent, Mandal s Bilbcra Collicry, P . O . Katrasgarh , (District Dhanbad ) 

Opposite Party . 
PRESENT: 

Shri Raj Kisliore Prasad , Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 
For the Complainant - Shri Prasanta Burman , General Secretary , Bihar 

Koyla Mazdoor Sabha , Dhanbad , 
For the Opposite Part +1- Nonc . 
STATE ; Bihar, 

INDUSTRI : Coal 
AWARD 

Dhanbad , the 23rd April 1966 
This complaint was macin under Sec . 33 A of The Industrial Dispules Act , 1947 , 
in Reference No. 63 of 1964, on 10th September , 1964 by 11 workmen of the oppo 
In04M AJUOS(113 JOJ [1SSỊCUISIP 11: 33 ( IļƏ47 7suese Fuļuſaduod 4 .10TOJ Sljed 2178 
permission , 

3 . The opposite party appeared and filed written statement on 14th October , 
1964 , but at the time of the hearing of the complaint on 22nd April 1960 , in spite 
of scrvice of the registered notice on 5th April, 1966 , none turned up and therr 
fore , the management was unrepresentant throughout the fina 12 - illing of the case . 
The casc was Axcd fur hearing at AN ., and I waited till 10 1 11., but when I 


SEO. 31ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 17 :05,/ ASADHA 25, 1888 


2087 


found that no one turned up to repreke at the inanagement, I took up the case 
thereafter ex - parte , 

3 . Shri Prasanta Burman , Gen . al Secrctary , Bihar Kovla Mazdoor Sabha , in 
presented all the eleven complaints of this casc . On bchalf of the complainants , 
the documents Aled on their lehill were marked E .rts . W to W 3 . Although the 
management was not represented , I found , however, that copies of certain docu 
ments were Aled along with its written statement as Annexures and , therefore, 
I marked them Erts , A1 to M 86 . 

4 . The case of the complainants was that they were arrested on 21st July , 1964 
in a case under Sec . 107 I. P . C ., and were detained till 5th August, 1964 , due to 
which they could not attend their duties at the colliery , except in the case of 
Complainants Nos, 3 . 6 , 9 and 11 , the date of commencement of the absence is 
different due to arrest and in case of complainant No . 9 the date of the release of 
the complainant is 11th August, 1964, 

5 . The periods of absence of rach of these cleven complainants are mentioned 
in Ext. W 2 , which are reproduced below : 
1 . Lichhu Rii From 22 - 7 -64 to 5 - 8 -64 

13 days . 
2. Hiri Rai 

22 -7 -64 » 5 -8- 64 

13 
3 . Nakul Rui 

21 - 7 -61 , 5 -8 -64 
4 . Mahubir Riwani 

22 - 7- 61 , 5 -8 -61 
5 . Mahoshi Chamar 

22-7 -61 , 5 -8 -64 
6 . Suku Rawani 

25 - 7 -61 , 5 -8 -64 
7 . Guzar Napit 

22 - 7 -61 , 5 -8 - 64 
8 . Ismile Mia 

22 - 7 -64 » 5 - 8 -67 

13 
9 . B uukh in Grpc 

28 -7 -64 , 11- 8 -64 

12 13 
10 . Runoo Bhuia 

23- 7 -61 , 5 - 3- 61 
11. Toler L 4111 

29 - 7 -64 , 5 - 8 -64 
(23 -7- 614, 4- 8-64 and 11-8 -64 being weekly rest days ) 
6 . From the above, it will appear that all the complainants , except No . 3 
Bhuklin Gope, who was released 011 11th August , 1961, ucre eleased on 5th 
Angust , 1964 and each of thon reported for duty on 6th August, 1964 when they 
were sold with chargeshcels except No. 9 , The eleven chargeshoots are E .rts . 
Mto M 11 . The replies to the said chargeshcets of these eleven complainants are 
Erts. MI 12 to M 23 . Tlie enquiry reports are Exts. M 24 , M 29 , M 33 , M 38 , MI 44 , 
M 47, N 52 , M57, M 62, M 68, M 73 , MI 77 and M 82. It inay be mentioned here 
that cuiquiries into the chargeshects against the above cleven complainants were 
held separately and, thcrefore, the statements of the witnesses examined at each 
enquiry have also been filed and they are Exts on the records and their enquiries 
reports are also on the records , 


13 


7 . It appeas from the statement of Shri J . S . Jadan , Manager , at the enquiry 
ag : inst Lachhu Rai Compainant No. 1 , Ex. M 74 that on 10th July , 1964 he knew 
of the pendency of the case under Sec. 107 I. P . C ., against all the cleven complain 
ants and also of their arrest. He, however , denied that no one asked him verbally 
to grant leave nor he received any leavc application though the Jail Superinte11 
dent, Dhanbad . 


8 . From the Model Sianding Orders for Coal Minin ; Industry Ext. W 3 , as this 
colliery , it is said , has no ce tified Standing Orden , of its uin , provides in ( 1:21758 
18 ( 1 ) ( n ) tliat " Continz018 absence pithout perinission ( 172:1 without rutistucten ? 
cause for nore than 10 duu " shull denoto inisconduct , for whicli a workinan mily 
be punished in the manner indicated in Clausc 18 ( 1 ) . Relying on this, it was 
contended that , in the instant case , the dismissal of these complainants are illegal, 
because , as will appear from Ert . W 3 , none of the complainants was continuously 
absent for more thian 10 days and further there was satisfactor ?! 007se to the 
ahsence of these cloven complainants even for 10 days or 7 days, which had not 
at all been considered . 


9 . On the facts stated above, before continuous absence for more than 10 days 
can denote misconduct it has to be estihlislied that this continuous absence was 
botlı puithout permission and without sutisfactory case . Here, it cannot be suid 
that the continuous alisence either for more than 10 days or even for less than 10 
days was without satisfactory COLSC . On the statement of the Manager E .xt . Ali . 


2088 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


[ PART Il 


which is his statement in one case but is similar to his statement in other cases 
also , it was known to the management that all these elcyen persons had been 
arrested on the dites mentioned in Ext . W ? and released on the dates mentioned 
in E .ct. W 2 . The continuous absence for less than 10 days was no misconduct at 
all under Clause 13 ( 1 ) ( n , and , therefore , the dismissal of Complainants No. 6 
Suku Ruwani and Compluinunt No. 11 , Inder Lalla was entirely illcgal being 
contrary to the Standing Orders. The dismissal of the other nine complainants 
was also illegal because their continuous absence for more than 10 days was not 
without satisfactory ( 77713c within the inenning of causc 18 ( 1 ) ( n ) of the Standing 
Orders Ext. W 3 , and , therefore , one of the two conditions both of which must co 
exist, is absent in the present case and , tlierefore, there was no misconduct in res 
pect of these nine complainants also under Clause 18 ( 1 ) ( n ) . 


10 . For the reasons given above , I would , therefore , allow the complaint, sct 
aside the dismissals of all tlie eleven romplainants ni Jirect their deinstatement 
to their previous jobs with full back wages from 6th August, 1964, on which day 
they reported for work , except in the case of Complaint No. 9 Bhukhan Gorc who 
will be reinstated with effect from 12th August , 1964 on which date this complain 
ant reported for work and was refused work , till their re - instatement, 
11. This is the award which I make and submit to the Central Governmeni. 

( Sd .) RAJ KISHORE PRASA !), 

Presiding Officer. 

[No. 2 / 46 /64 -LR .II.] 
S . O . 2113 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dlianbad , in the industrial dispute between the employe s in 
relation to the Bhagabond Colliery of Messrs Borrea Coal Conipany Limited , Pust 
Office Bhagaband . District Dhanbad , and their workmen , which was received by 
the Central Government on the 4th July , 1966 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBA 

In the matter of Reference under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of The Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 

RETETENCE No. 177 OF 1905 
PIRTIES : 
Employers in relation to Bhagaband Colliery of M / s. Borrea Coal Co . Ltd ... 
P . O . Bhagaband , Dist. Dhanbad . 

Vs. 
Thcir Workmen , 
PRESENT: 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad . Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 

For the Emplojers — Shri A . M . Joshi, Labour Adviser . 
For he Workmen — Shri Shanker Bose , Secretary , Colliery Mazdour Sangh 

and Shri R . N . Singh , Secretary , Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , Bhagaband 

Branch . 
State : Biha" . 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad , dated the 10th June , 1966 

AWARD 
By its order No. 2 / 101 / 05 -LR . II , dated 22nd October, 1965 , the Government of 
India , Ministry of Labour and Employment, referred to this Tribunal for adjudica 
tion , under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of The Industrial Disputes Act , 1947, an industrial 
dispute existing between the employers in relation to the Bhagaband Colliery of 
Iviess s Borrea Coal Company Limited , Post Office Bhagaband , ( District Dhanbad ) 
and their workmen in respect of the matters spccified in the schedule annexed to 
the order of reference, which is reproduced below : 

SCHEDULE 
" ( 1 ) Whether the management of Bhagaband Colliery of Messrs Barrca Coal 

Company Limited were justificd in terminating the sc vices of Sar 
Vashri Matadin Singh and Nathuni Sao, Munshis , with effect froin the 

27th January 1965 . 
( 2 ) If not , to what relief are the worlimen entitled ?" 


SEC . 3( li)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 18 , 1966/ AŞADHA 25 , IHAS 


2089 


2 . On 9th June , 1966 a joint petition of compromise , marked Annexure A , 
signed by Shri A . M . Joshi, Labour Adviser , M / s, Bird & Co . ( P ) Lt. d , M / s . F . W . 
Hcligers & Co . ( P ) Ltd ., on behalf of the employers and by Sa vashri Shanker 
Bose , Secretary , Colliery Mazdoor Sangh and R . N . Singh , Secretary , Colliery Maz 
door Sangh , Bhagaband Branch , representing the concerned workmen wus pre 
sented before the T ibunal and they jointly prayed that an award in terms of the 
above compromise be made, 

3 . I have read the terms of the compromisc and , in my opinion , they are fair 
and in the interest of both thc parties and , therefore, I accept them and recor : 
the compromise. 

4 . In the result , the reference is disposed of in te ms of the compromise , marked 
Annexure A , and an award in terms of the compromise is made and the said 
compromise Annexure A , is made a part of the award , 
5 . This is the award which I make and submit to the Central Government. 

($ d .) RAJ KISHORE PRASAD , 

Presiding Officer . 
BEFORE THE HON BLE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , 

DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No. 177 OF 1965 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to Bhagaband Colliery of M / s. Borrea Coal Co . Ltd ., 
P . O . Bhagaband , Dist. Dhanbad . 

AND 
Their Workmen . 
In the matter of termination of services of S / Shri Matadin Singh and Nathuni 
Sao, Munshis. 

Referred for adjudication by the Government of India , Ministry of Labour & 
Employment vide Notification No. 2 / 10 / 65 - LR . II , dated the 22nd October , 1965 pub 
lished in the Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 Sub - section ( ii) , dated the 6th 
November, 1965 as S . O . No. 3474 at pages 3650 -51 . 

The parties respectfully beg to submit as follows: 

( 1 ) That without prejudice to the respective contentions of the parties the 
above reference has been amicably settled betwcen the parties on the following 
terms: 
( a ) That S / Shri Matadin Singh and Nathuni Sao, Munshis ( Clerks G . III ) 

will be taken back in emp oyment within 15 days of the date of this 

compromise , 
( b ) That the period of unemployment from the date of their discharge viz . 

27th January , 1965 to the date of . esumption of duties by them as per 
this compromise wil be treated as leave without pay for the purposes 

of continuity of their service . 
( c ) That they shall report for duty within the period stipulated above i. e . 

within 15 days from the date of this compromise failing which they 

shall have no claim on the Company for employment or otherwise. 
( d ) That the parties will be their own costs. 
It is therefore , humbly prayed that an award may kindly bę passed in the 
terms of the above compromise 

And for this your petitioners as in duty bound shall pray . 
For the workmen 

For the employers . 
( 1 ) SHANKER BOSE , Secy . 
Col iery Mazdoor Sangh , 

Dhanbad , 
( 2 ) R . N . SINGH , Secy . 

A . M . Joshi, Labour Adviser , 
Collie y Mazdoor Sangh , 

M / s . Bird & Co . ( P ) Ltd ., 
Bhagaband Branch , 

M / s . F . W . Heligers & Co. ( P ) 

Ltd , 


the 9th June, 1966 . 
Dhanbad , 


[ No . 2 / 101 /65 -LR.II.] 


2090 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


[PART II 


$ . 0 . 2114 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the matter of an application under Section 33A of the 
said . ct from Shri Kishun Bhula , Trammer , Chulludih Colliery care of the Presi 
dent, Congress Mazdoor Sangh , Bihar , Camp Jorapokhar No. 1, Post Office Jeal 
gora , District Dhanbad , which was received by the Central Government on the 
5th July , 1966 , 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD . 
In the matter of a Complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 , 

COMPLAINT No. 10 OF 1964 

(Arising out of Ref. No. 46 of 1964) 
PARTIES : 
Shri Kishun Bhuia , Trammer, Choitudih Colliery , Conıplainant 

vs. 
The Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd ., Jamadoba. -- Opposite Party . 
PRESENT : 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad, Presiaing Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 
For the Complainant. - Shri B . N . Sharma, President, Congress Mazdoor Sangh , 

Bihar , 

For the Opposite party .-- Shri S , N . Singh , Legal Assistant. 
STATE : Bihar 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad, dated the 25th April , 1966 


AWARD 
This complaint under Section 33A of The Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 was 
made by Shri Kishun Bhuia , Trammer , Choitudih Collie - y of the opposite party , 
in Reference No. 46 of 1964, complaining against his dismissal, for disobedience 
of orders , with effect from 29th May , 1964 . 


2 . The opposite party filed its rejoinder on 24th September 1964 in which its 
case was that Quarter NO . CL / 4 belonging to the company was allotted to Miners 
Sirdar, Shri Ma, Sati, on 21st February 1949 for allotting it to his miners and 
Shri Md. Saft a . lotted this quarter jointly to Shri Somar Bhulya and Shri Karoo 
Bhuiyan , Miners, from Apri. 1962 ; that the above two aliottees left employincnt and 
handed over vacant possession of the quarter to the opposite party on 19th Novem 
ber, 1963 and the company rivetted the doors after receiving vacant possession ; 
that later on the complainant broke open the rivets und occupied the quarter 
forcibly which was detected by the Dhowrah Clerk and Dhowrah Chaprasi during 
their inspection on 22nd November 1963 , that , thereafter, by notices dated 25tn 
November 1963 and 2nd December 1963 the complainant was asked to yucate the 
quarter but in spite of repeated orders to hand over Quarter No . CL / 4 forcibly 
occupied by him he refused to carry out the order; that, therefore, a chargesheet 
dated 10th December, 1963 was issued to the complainant to which he replied on 
14th December 1963 and thereafter a departmental enquiry was held on 19th 
December 1963, 251h December 1963 and 8th January 1964 in presence of the 
complainant giving him full chance and opportunity to cross - examine the 
prosecution witnesses and to defend himself ; that the enquiry officer submitted 
his report on 8th January 1964 and at this departmental enquiry his misconduct 
mentioned in the chargesheet was established and therefore the complainant was 
suspended for 10 days only with effect from 20th January 1964 and was given a 
chance to correct himself by vacating the quarter ; thut in spite of epeated chances 
being given and leniency shown the complainant continued to occupy the quarter 
No , CL / 4 and refused to carry out the lawful order by vacating the same and , 
therefore, another chargesheet dated 13th February 1964 was issucd to the com 
plainant to which he gave a reply and thereafter a departmental enquiry was held 
but as the complainant in spite of repeated notices refused to attend the enquiry , 
it was held in his absence on 4th May 1964 for which the complainant alone is 
responsible ; that the Enquiry Officer submitted his report on 7th March 1964 find 
ing that the misconduct of the complainant was established ; that, therefore , the 


Sec. 3(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16, 1066 ,ASADHA 25 , 1895 


2091 


complainant was dismisserl by a letter dated 23 / 25th March 1964 : that the com 
plainant is a tressDasser and not a tenant for the purpose of Bihar Buildings 
(Lease. Rent and Eviction ) Control Act, 1947. and , therefore, the provisions of the 
said not do not apoly : that, therefore, the dismissal of the complainant was justi 
fied and he was not entitled to any rollet. 

3. Shri B . N Sharma. President, Congress Mazdoor Sanch , Bihar , represented 
the complainant and Shri Ş . N , Singh , Legal Asstt., of the Company , appeared for 
the opposite party . 

4 . On 16th April 1966 when the complaint was taken up for hearing no petition 
for time was A ed , but orally it was stated by Shri Sharma that he has left his Ale 
but still he orgued the case for the complainant very tho oughly from which it 
appears that he was quite ready with the case . 

5 The management onnosite narty , however . Aled documents which were mark 
ed Erts. H to H 20 and after hearing arguments I reserved order . 

6 . On 18th Aoril 1966 Shri Sharma, on hehalf of the complainant, Aled a peti 
tion to grant adjournment to Ale doruments and to argue the case again to explain 
further relevant facts and a so Aled along with it Voters lists of Tinnhanchi 
Katras Constituency for the General Election , 1957 , of village Melkhera , P . S . 
Katras Thana No . 289 . Sub - Division Dhanbad District Manbhum , in whicn under 

$ 1. No 2408 at nage 31. the complainant is recorded as one of the voters . It may be 
mentioned that the fact that he was in possession of the disputed qua ter No. CL / 4 
of the company is not recorded therein . I rejected the petition for time as he 
could have med other documents along with the above document. Moreover, he 
could not say what documents he wanted to Ale after the conclusion of the argu 
ments . I . however marked the document on behalf of the complainant, as Ert. W , 
with the consent of Shri Singh . 

7 . On behalf of the complainant, Shri Sharma put forward the following 
contentions : 
(a ) That the complainant was punished twice for the same offence and, 

therefore , his dismissal was illegal; 
( b ) That the charge was ragile and not specific and , therefore , the entire 

enquiry was vitiated and , consequently, his dismissal as a result of 

such enquiry was illegal; 
( c ) That the complainant cannot he convicted in view of the Bihar Buildings 

(Lease, Rent And Eviction ) Control Act , 1947 , and , therefore ; the 
complainant, had committed no offence and in not vacating the quarter 
he was not guilty of any misconduct as he was in lawful possession 
as a tenant within the meaning of Sec. 2 ( f ) of this Act of the disputed 

quarter 
8 . I, therefore, now procred to examine how far the above, contentions are 
valid and maintainable . Before , however , I decide the above objections raised by 
Shri Sharma it would be better to state at this very stage the material facts 
having hearing on the questions at issue. They are these : 
20th November. 1963 : The complainant made an application Ext. M to the 

Welfare Officer for being permitted to live in the Dhowrah of Somar 
Bhuian and Karo Bhuiyan at Choitudih , which is vacant, as he has 

heen working since January 1953. 
25 / 26th November, 1963 : The Manager of Melkera Colliery informed the 

complainant by a letter Ext. M . 1 that he had forcibly occupied the 
quarter No. CL / 4 by breaking the Company s rivets which was hien 
ly unfair and illegal on his part and therefore , he is advised to vacate 
the same within three days of the receipt of this letter, otherwise 

disciplinary proceedings will be taken against him , 
28th November, 1963 : The complainant replied to the above letter Ext. M 1 

by sending a letter Ext. M 2 to the Manager saying that he was living 
in this quarter for the last Afteen years and house rent for it has been 
deducted as can be verified from the company s records and , there 
fore , great injustice would be caused to him if he is asked to vacate 

the quarter without any justifiable reason , 
30th November , 1963: The Manager of Melkcra Colliery in rep y to the letter 

of the complainant Ext. M 2 sent a letter Ext. M 3 to the complainant 
saying that he has enquired into the points raised by him and found 
that the same were unfounded and concocted and , therefore , he asked 
the complainant to give vacant possession of quarter No, CL / 4 , which 
he has unlawfully occupied after breaking the company s rivets , other 
wise disciplinary action will be taken against him . 


2092 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25, 1888 


(Part II 


F7797 Chargesheet (Ext, M 4 ) : 
7th December , 1963 : The Manager of the colllery issued a chargesheet Ext. 

M 4 to the complainant to show cause why disciplinary action should 
not be taken against him for not giving vacant possession of the quar 
ter No. CL / 4 of which he was under unauthorised occupation inspite 

of repeated requests to give up possession . 
14th December , 1963 : To the above chargesheet Ext. M . 4 the complainant 

sent a reply Ext, M . 5 in which he sold that he could not be evicted 
as he was in occupation of the quarter by virtue of his service with 
the company for more than 20 years in violation of the provisions of 

the Bihar Buildings (Leage . Rent and Eviction ) Control Act . 
13th / 16th January , 1964 : The Manager informed the complainant by a 

letter Ext. M R that the management was satisfied that the charge of 
of misconduct in not giving vacant possession of quarter No. CL / 4 
was established and therefore , he has been suspended for 10 days 

from 20th January 1964 , 
Second Chargesheet (Ext, M7) : 
12th February , 1964 : The complainant not having vacated , another charge 

sheet was issued Ext. M 7 to the complainont paying that after the 
complainant had been suspended on the Arst chargesheet Ext . M 4 
from 20th January 1964 to 29th January 1964, the Dhowrah Clerk , 
Shri Zahir Ahamad and the Dhowrah Chaprast, Shri Rajkaran Singh , 
made inspection on 11th February, 1964, and found that the com 
plainant did not vacate the above quarter and continued to disobey 
the lawful order of the Company and , therefore , he should show 
cause why he should not be dismissed for violation of Company s 
Standing Orders Clause 19 ( 1 ) . 


16th February , 1963 : To the above chargesheet Ext. M . 7 , the complainant 

sent a reply Ext . M 8 saying that he had already been illegally punish 
ed with effect from 20th January , 1964 to 29th January 1964 and , 
therefore , he cannot be doubly punished for the same alleged mis 
conduct and as he has fully explained the facts and circumstancns in 
his reply Ext. M5 to the first chargesheet Ext. M 4 he has nothing 
further to add and the same explanation Ext. M 5 may also be referred 

to . 
21st February , 1 " 64 : The Manager informed the complainant by a Intter Ext. 

M 9 that an enquiry into the second chargesheet Ext. M7 will be held 
on 24th February 1964 and , therefore , he should present himself for 

the enquiry . 
24th February , 1964 : The complainant on 24th February 1964, which was the 

date Axed for the enquiry under Ext. 9 , asked for a week s time 

Ext . M 10 , 
26 / 29th February , 1964 : Adjournment asked for was granted by a letter 

dated 26 / 29th February 1964 Ert . M 11 and enqlury was fixed on 

4th March , 1964 , 
4th March , 1964 : Enquiry was held at which the statements of Company s 

witnesses (i ) Zahir Ahamad , Dhowrah Clerk Ert . M . 12 ( 11) Fajkaran 
Singh , Dhowrah Chapresi, Ext. M 13 , (111) Md. Safi , Miner Sirdar, 
Ext. M 14 , (iv ) Sukhlal Bhula , Ex - Trammer , Ext. M 15 , were recorded , 
and as the complainant did not turn up at the enquiry, it was held 

ex - parte in his absence. 
7th March , 1964 : The Enquiry Oncer submitted his report Ext. M 16 in 

which he found the misconduct of the complainant to have been proved , 
23rd / 26th May. 1964 : The Actg . Agent of the Colliery informed the com 

plainant by a letter Ext. M 17 that as he continued to dis -obey the 
lawful instructions of the Company and did not vacate the quarter 
No, CL / 4 which he was occupying forcibly even after the issue of the 
first chargesheet Ext. M 4 . he is being dismissed from Company s 

service with elect from 29th May , 1964 . 
29th May , 1964 ; The complainant was dismissed by the above letter Ext. 

M 17. 
9 . It appears from the Jharia Mines Board of Health s By - laws and General 
Orders, approved by the State Government under Section 25 ( 2 ) of The Bihar & 
Orissa Mining Settlement Act , 1920 , 1954 Edition , page 201; that a Register has to 
be maintained under Part II, Register / & Plans, Rule 5 , which is called Register 


Sec . % (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1968 !ASADHA 25 , 1888 


2093 


of Housing. Rule 5 ( 1 ) novides that a register shall he maintainert op all houses 
which are ordinarily inhabited , or intended to be inhabited . hy colliery labourers, 
Rule 5 ( ? ) Tavs down that if the Board so direct a register shall also he maintained 
of all such houses. showing the names , ages. sexes and othrr particulars as the 
Board may bv general or special order presrrihe. Ert. M 20 is such a register 
from April 1961 to March 1964 and , in this statutory register , Block No. CL., Room 
No 4 , is recorrind tointly in the names of Karno Phuia and Somar Bhuis in April 
1963 under permit No . 434 . Against this quarter , there is a remarks that they were 
discharged on 4th November 1983. hut both were staying and leter it is mentioned 
that vacant possession of quarter CL / 4 was received on 19th Novemher 1963 and 
during the inspection of the colony along with Thowrah ( hanrast on 23rd Novem 
her 1963 it was found that the complainant Kishun Bhula han entered into the 
quarter forcibly , which fact was brought to the notice of thr Welfare Mcer for 
taking neonssary action . Ext. M 20 . Therefore . proves that the concered complain 
ant was never allotter this quarter CL / 4 at any stage any time in any year. 

10 . At present admittedly the complainant is in nossession of this amarter nr . / 4 . 
According to the complainant. he was in lawful nogaession of it. hut according to 
the management he was in forcible and wrongful nossession of it. The comnlain 
ant s letter dated enth November 1943 Ert M and the Company s reply dated 25 / 
2017 November 1963 to it . Ert. M 1 . ann the next letter of the complainant watod 
28th November 1963 Ext. M 2 and the Comnany s renly thornto nn 3014 Novemher 
1963. Fr . M 3 leave no manner of doubt that the complainant was in forcihle 
Orcunation of the quarter, otherwise there is no sense why the complainant should 
have made an application on 20th November 1983 Ert, M for ointment of nurorter 
CT / 4 on the ground that the quarter of the original allottees Shri Somar Bhula 
and Karoo Bhuin who are recorded , and who were allotted this quarter as men 
tioned in Ert. M 20 has fallen vacant and therefore hoch und hn ollnuen in Tiere 
in it as he has no quarter of his own . The complainant did not examine himself 
to deny this applicatinn Ert. M annl. therefore in the angance of his evidence and 
denial of this letter Ert. M , it must he held that Evt M is a genuino Intter This 
letter Ext. M proves that the complainant was not in lawful possession of the 
house and he forcibly occupied it , as mentioned in Ext, M 20 . 
Re, 7 ( a ) 


11 . When on the first chargesheet dated 7th December 1963 ERT, M 4 , the com 
plainant was suspended for ten days from 20th January 1964 under Ert , MA, he 
should have varated it and by not vacating it he continued to commit the offence 
of being in forrible and wrongful occupation of the house and therefore, it amount 
ed to a continuing offence and , as such , he could after his first punishment under 
Ert. M 6 . be chargesheeted for continuing the offence under Ert , M 7 and after 
his reply thereto Ert. M 8 his misconduct having been established he was dismiss 
ed under Ert. M 9 , and, therefore , it is not correct to may that he has been punish 
ed twice for the same offence . He was punished first for forcibly taking possession 
of the house and for not vacating it although askert hv the company to do so , 
The second punishment was for continuing to be in forcihle ocridation of the house 
Inspite of his Arst nunishment and in not giving up vacant possession of the house 
to the company and his continuing in wrongful possession amounted to a continuous 
offence for which the complainant rou d he punished again for the second offence , 
He is committing the offence in not vacating the quarter inspite of his punishment, 
And , therefore , there is no qucstion of the complainant being punished twice for 
the same oflence . 
Re, 7 ( h ) : 

12 . I have read the chargesheet Ert, M 7 and And that it is specific and not at 
all vague and the complainant knew that the charge related to as Appears from 
his reply Ert. M A to the chargesheet Ert. M 7 hecalise in his replv Ert MÅ he 
says that his earlier explanation Ert. M 5 may be referred to for this chargeshret 
also . It cannot, therefore, be said that the complainant has heen misled or in any 
way nrejudirnd by the chargesheet Ext. M 7 which is as clear as it could he. This 
ohjection , therefore , is over - ruled . 
Re. 7 ( e ) : 

13. I cannot understand how does the Bihar Buildings (Lease, Rent and Evic 
tion ) Control Act. 1947. can apply to the facts of the present case . Shri Sharma 
contended that the complainant was a tenant under Sec , 2 / f) (b ) of this Act. But 
I do not think this contention is correct . Sec. 2 ( f ) reads thus : 

" 2 . In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, — 
( 1) " tenant" means any person by whom , or on whose account rent is 

payable for a building and includes . 
( a ) a person continuing in possession after the termination of the ten 

ency in his favour; and 


2094 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / AŞADHA 25 , 1888 


(PART Il 


-- - - 


( b ) a person who occupies a building as an employee of the landlord of 

such building either on payment of rent or otherwise . " 
According to the above definition , the complainant cannot be said to be tenant 
under this Act , because he was never put in possession of Quarter No. CL / 4 by 
the management. True, he was an employee of the management, but this quar 
ter was never alloted to him either on payment of rent o : without payment rent 
rent free . There is no evidence to support the case of the complainant, which 
is rather negative by Ext. M . 20 and Exts M to M 3 . Shri Sharma however relied 
on Sec . 2 ( f ) ( b ) , quoted above, and said that as the complainant was an employee 
of the company , he must be deemed to have occupied the disputed quarter as an 
employee of the company, and , therefore, he must be deemed to be tenant with 
in the meaning of Sec. 2 ( f ) ( b ) of this Act . In my opinion , this argument is fal 
lacious for the simple reason that this disputed quarter was never let out to him 
and , therefore, the question of occupying the quarter as an employee of the coni 
pany does not arise . If, however , this quarter CL / 4 would have been allotted to 
the complainant, then the matter would have been different, but here there is 
positive and reliable evidence in the shape of Ext. M 20 , supported by Ext. M 3 , 
that this quarter was never allotted to the complainant. It may be noted here , 
as stated earlier also , that Ext. M 20 shows that the disputed quarter CL14 was 
in occupation of the joint allottecs , Karoo Bhuia and Somar Bhuia , who were dis 
charged on 4th November , 1963, still they both stayed there , and ultimately , they 
handed over possession on 19th November , 1963, and , thereafter , during the inspec 
tion on 22nd November , 1963 , the complainant was found to be in illegal and 
forcible possession of the quarter. In para 10 of his written statement the work 
men asserted that he has been living in this disputed quarter for more than 14 
years . To falsify this assertion , besides Ext , M20 , algo Ext . M19 . which is a list 
of workman from whom house rent was deducted as per Mazumdar Award and 
later refunded to them as per Jeejeebhoy Award for the year 1956 - 1957 was failed , 
in which the name of this workmen does not find a place. For these reasons, isi 
my opinion , the Bihar Buildings ( Lease, Rent and Eviction ) Control Act, 1947, 
does not apply to the facts of the present case, and , therefore, the complainant 
cannot be considered to be a " Tenant within the meaning of the Sec . 2 ( f ) ( b ) of 
the Act so as to be protected against his eviction thereunder . 


14 . After having rejected the three objections raised on behalf of the com 
plainant, I perused the enquiry papers Ext. M 7 to M 17 and find that the enquiry 
cannot be said to be not fair and proper , simply because the comp ainant delibe 
rately refused to attend the enquiry , although asked to do so by Ext. M 11 . The 
complainant, after being served with chargeshect Ert. M 7 gave his reply there. 
to Ext. M 8 and was allowed one week s adjournment on his application Ért. M10 
to hold the enquiry and the enquiry was fixed at his instance., i.e .. on 4th Mach , 
1964, was the date of his enquiry but on 24th February , 1964 , he replied - Ext. M 10 
therefore, the enquiry was held ex - parte on 4th March , 1964. Here is not a case 
where the complainant had no notice of enquiry . He knew that 24th February , 
1964 , was the date of his enquiry but on 24th February , 1964 , he applied - Ect . M10 
for one week s adjournment as he had pain in his stomach and accordingly 
4th March , 1964 , was fixed as the date of the enquiry and the complainant was 
informed by Ert. M11 on 26th / 29th February , 1964 , that now enqui y had been 
fixed on 4th March , 1964 , at 9 A . M . and he must attend it with his witnesses . The 
complainant has not examined himself to deny Ext . M10 or to say that he had no 
knowledge about the date of enquiry . If therefore, even on knowing the dae of 
enguiry the complainant refused to attend the enquiry , he alone is to be blamed 
for his own deliberate action . The Enquiry Officer examined as many as four 
witnesses on behalf of the company , whose statements are Ext. M12 to N : 5 . and 
because of the absence of the complainant the Enquiry Omcer himself put ques 
tions to them to satisfy himself of the misconduct of the complainant had been 
proved . On being satisfied that his misconduct had been established , he sub 
mitted his enquiry report Ext. M16 on 7th March , 1964 , to this effect and there 
after the concerned wo kman was dismissed by Ext. M17 . From the Standing 
Orders Ext. W18 it appears that the present case is covered by clause 19 ( 1 ) as 
mentioned in the chargesheet Ert. My and on the evidence it has been clearly 
establish and therefore , the action of the complainant in not obeying the order 
of the company by vacating the quarter, which was never allotted to him and 
by continuing to be in possession of the same, he contravened the provisios of 
Clause 19 ( 1 ) of the Standing Orders Ext. M18 and , therefore , he had been rightly 
dismissed . 

15 . For the reasons given above, I, therefore , held that there is no merit in 
the complaint and , accordingly , it is dismissed . 

Sd / - RAJ KISHORE PRASAD , 

Presiding Officer , 
[ NO. 8 / 189 / 63 -LRII . ) 


Sec . 3( 11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1764 /ASADHA 25 , 1888 


2095 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 5th July 1966 
S . O . 2115 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute cxists betweell the eniployers in relation to the Choukhandi Mangunese 
Mines of Messrs . C . P . Syndicate Private Limited , Tirodi, District Balaghat 
(Madhya Pradesh ) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whercas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Whether the action of the management of Choukhandi Manganese Mine 
oť Messrs . C . P . Syndicate Private Limited , Tirodi, District Balaghat (Madhya 
Piddeshi ) retrenching the following workmen with effect from the 20th January , 
1960 was justified ? 
Name of the Workmon , 

( l ) Lahu s / o Dukaroo 
( 2 ) Suma s / o Maroti 
( 3 ) Soma s / o Ud . 
( 4 ) Dina s / o Mahadeu 
( 5 ) Premlal 3 / o Sitaram 
( 6 ) Dina s / o Phogai 
( 7 ) Sankar S / o Agnoo 
( 8 ) Mayaram s / o Dukros. 
( 9 ) Madhoo / o Radho 
( 10 ) Kaidi w / o Nathou 
( 11 ) Durpati w / o Gonna 
( 12 ) Saroo wio Premlal 
( 13 ) Radhar w / o Ramdayal 
( 14 ) Samoti w / o Sankar 
( 15 ) Heeran w / o Raghunath 
(116 ) Parbata w / o Soma 
(17 ) Pooran w / o Jhamlul 
(18 ) Bega w / o Lahoo 
119 ) Kesar W / O Josiram 
( 20 ) Santuram w / o Mahatla : 
( 21 ) Bakoo w / o Boharan 
( 22 ) Gayalal w / o Boharan 
( 23 ) Kapoor w / o Jangaloo 
( 24 ) Bhaggu w / o Mayaram 
125 ) Sugar w / o Chunnilal 
( 26 ) Natthoo s / o Sadoo 
( 27) Patiram Agnoo 
( 28 ) Nandoo Punoo 
( 29 ) Bhaiyalal Fokatoo 
( 30 ) Jayalal Gobari 
(31) Sukhbanta Jayalal 
(32 ) Dayaran Dukaroo 
(33 ) Gopi Radho 
( 34 ) Fogal Kishan 
( 35 ) Kapura Fogal 
( 36 ) Girjoo Mohpat 
(37 ) Parvat Sevak 
(38 ) Aşi Hagrou 
( 39 ) Shanti 
( 40 ) Mantoora 
(41 ) Sakanya 
(42 ) Makayi 
( 43 ) Chhotelal 
(44 ) Fagani 

* 45 ) Bega. 
( 2 ) If not, to what relief are the said workmen entitled ? 

[No. 35 / 8 /66.LRI. ] 


2096 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 / ASADHA 25 , 1888 


(PART 11 


New Delhi, the 6th July 1966 
S . O . 2116 . - .-Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispule exists beiween the employers in relation to the Ardhograrn Khas Colliery , 
Pusi Orlice Arunogram , District Bankura and their workmen in repect of the 
malleis speculled in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
said spule for aujuuicacion ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Guvernment hereby relers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


DULE 
Whether tho closure of Ardhogrum Khas Colliery by the management from 
the 3uih Sepitiabet, Iyuo was jubilied ? 11, not , to what relief are the employees 
entitled ? 

(No. 1/ 4 / 66 -LRII . ] 
S . O . 2117 . — Whereas the Central Government is of Opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the cmployers in relation to the Ena Colliery , Post Office 
Ihansar ( Dhanbad ) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in 
the Schedule herclu annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the 
said dispuçt lur adjudication ; 

Now , thicrefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) ul Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the suid Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Ena Colliery was justified in stopping Shri Sidh 
nath Singh , Chaprasi, trom work with effect from the 19th February , 1966 ? Il 
not, to what reliel is the workman entitled ? 

[ No. 2/ 97 /68- LR . II.] 
New Delhi, the 7th July 1966 
S . O . 2118 .- --Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Pure Kajora Colliery , 
Post Office Kajoragram , District Burdwan , and their workmen in respect of the 
inatters speckled in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
Yaid dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the termination of scvices of Shrimati Kashi Bowrin , Wagon Loader, 
by the management of Pure Kajora Collicry was justified ? If not , to what 
relief is she entitled ? 

[No. 8 / 49/ 86 -LRII .) 


S . O . 2119. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Bhagaband Colliery , 
Post Omce Bhagaband , District Dhanbad , and their workmen in respect of the 
matters spccificd in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
said dispute for adjudication ; 


Sec. 3(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16, 1966/ ASADHA 25 , 1888 


2097 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the termination of employment of the following workmen by the 
management of Bhagaband Colliery without paying compensation in the form 
of er - gratia payment with effect from the date shown against each of them was 
justified ? 


Name of workmen 


Date of termination 


Shri Pahaloo Roy 
2 . Shri Panchu Singh 
3 . Shri Soman Bhuian 
4 . Shri Sadhan Singh 
5 , Shri Waris Mia 


26 - 11-65 
10 - 12 -05 
10 - 12 - 05 
14 - 12 -65 
23 - 12 - 65 


If not, to what relief are these workmen entitled ? 


[No. 2 / 96 / 66 - LRII. ) 


8 .0 . 2120 .- Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Messrs 
Companhia Mineira Dempo and Souza , Panjim , Goa and their workmen in res 
pect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
sald dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication www . 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
1 . Whether the management of Messrs Companhia Mineira Dempo and 

Souza was justified in terminating the services of their workmen , 
Sarvashri John C . Barreto , Alex Fernandes , Tukaram Sawant, 
Janardhan Baltkar, Vincent Nunes and Luis Lopes with effect from 

the 6th December 1965 . 
2 . If not, to what relief are they entitled ? 

[No. 24 / 17 / 66 -LRI. ] 


New Delhi, the 8th July 1966 
S . O . 2121. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in rclation to the Bhatdee Colliery of 
Messrs Bengal Bhatdee Coal Company Limited , Post Office Mehuda (Dhanbad ) 
and their workmen in respect of the matters spectfled in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the 
Bald dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Bhatdee Colliery of Messrs Bengal Bhatdee 

Coal Company Limited , Post Office Mchuda, District Dhanbad was 
justified in dismissing from service Sarvashri Ramdhar Passi and 
Babulal Passi, loaders in Bhatdee Colliery , with effect from the 20th 
April, 1966 ?. If not. to what relief are these workmen entitled ? 

[No. 2 / 84 /86 -LRIT.] 


2098 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 /ASADHA 25 , 1888 


[PART II 


CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 6th July 1968 


S .O . 2122 . - In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rebabilitation No. S . O . 1503, dated the 10th May , 1966 
published at page 1404 of the Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3, Sub - Section 
(ii), dated the 21st May, 1966 , 
In line 3 of item ( I) of the Schedule , for " Ram Nagina Singh " read 
" Ramnagina" . 

[No . 1/ 2/60 -LRIL ] 
H C . MANGHANI, Under Secy. 


(Department of Rehabilitation ) 
(Office of the Chlef Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 4th July 1966 
S . O . 2123 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub -Section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Claim ) Supplementary Act, 1954 , (No. 12 of 1954 ) , 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri G . D , Kshetrapal as Chief Settle 
ment Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
Chief Settlement Commissioner by or under the said Act , with effect from the 
4th July , 1966 . 

[No. 5 (3) AGZ /64.] 


S . O . 2124 - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri G . D . Kshetrapal as Chief 
Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such Chief Settlement Commissioner by or under the said Act, with effcct from 
the 4th July , 1968 . 

[No, 5 (3 ) AGZ / 64.] 


S . O . 2125. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 of the Administra 
tion of Evacuee Property Act , 1950 (31 of 1950 ) , the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shri G . D . Kshetrapal as Custodian General of Evacuee Property for 
the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such Custodian General by 
or under the said Act, with effect from the 4th July , 1966 , 

[No, 5 ( 3 ) AGZ /64.] 


S . O . 2126 .- — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub -Section ( I) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 , (No. 44 
of 1954 ) , the Central Government hercby appoints Shri C . L . Arora as Assistant 
Settlement Officer in the Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner, New Delhi 
for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officers by or under 
the said Act with effect from the forenoon of the 20th June, 1966 . 

[No. 8 /83 /AGZ / 66 .] 
New Delhi, the 5th July 1968 
S . O . 2127 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause ( a ) of Sub -Section 
( 2 ) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act , 
1954 (44 of 1954 ) the Central Government hereby appoints for the State of U . P . 
Shri S , C . Sharma in the office of Assistant Settlement Commissioner , Incharge , 
UP., Lucknow as Managing Oficer for the custody, management and disposal 
of compensation pool with effect from the 13th June, 1966 ( F . N .) . 

[No. 8 / 82 /AGZ / 88.] 
New Delhi, the 7th July 1966 
S . O . 2128 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section (1 ) of Section 
(0 ) of the Administration of the Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ), the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shrị N . V . Prakasam as Assistant Custodian 
in the office of the Regional Settlement Commissioner , Bombay for the states of 


Sec . % (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 16 , 1966 /ASADIIA 25 , 1888 


2099 


Gujarat, Madras, Mysore, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh Maharashtra, for the 
purpose of discharging the duties imposed on custodian by or under the said 
Act with effect from the forenoon of 23rd June, 1966 . 

[No. 7 ( 2 ) / AGZ / 66 . ] 


S . O . 2129. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause ( a ) of Sub - Section 
( 2 ) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) 
Act, 1954 (44 of 1954 ) the Central Government hereby appoints for the Union 
Territory of Delhi, Shri M . P . Misra , Settlement Omcer in the office of Regional 
Settlement Commissioner , New Delhi as Managing Officer for the custody , 
management and disposal of compensation pool with effect from the 20th Junc, 
1986 . 

[No. 6 ( 2 ) AGZ / 64 .J 
A . G . VASWANI, Settlement Commissioner (A ) and 

Er-Officio Under Secy . 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGEN , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELII , 1966 


