रजिस्ट्री सं० डी० 222 


3 - 01 ) नवम्बर REGISTERED No. D. 22 : 


भारतको राजपत्र ... 
The Gazette of India 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


. 


- 


- 


. 


. 


. . 


सं . 47 , 

नई दिल्ली, शनिवार, नवम्बर 22, 1989/ प्रग्रहायण 1181 
No. 47 ) NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1909 /AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 

इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 

Separate paglug is given to this part in order that it may be aled 
. ... ..... ... . . . . . . .. . . As a separate compmamon. 

भाग II -- खा 3---- उपखण्ड ( ii ) 

PART II - Section 3 - - Sub - section ( ii) 
( रक्षा मंत्रालय को छोड़कर) भारत सरकार के मसालयों और ( संघ क्षेत्र प्रशासन को बोलकर ) 

केन्द्रीय प्राधिकरणों द्वारा जारी किये गये विषिक प्रावेश और प्रविसूचनाए । 
Sututory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern . 

ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administration of Union Territories ) . 

ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 6th November 1969 
s . o . 4834. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
13A of the Representation of the People Act , 1950), the Election Commission , in 
consultation with the Administration of Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindlvi Islands, 
hereby nominates Shri K , Damodara Menon , Administrator, Union Territory of 
Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindiví Islands, as the Chief Electoral Officer for the 
Union Teritory of Laccadive , Minicoy and Amindivi Islands from the afternoon 
of the 1st November , 1969 vice Shri C . H . Naire. 

[ No . 154 / 27 / 89. ] 
भार : निर्वान प्रायोग 

नई दिल्ली , 6 नवम्बर , 1969 
एस० प्रो० 4634. - - लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 10500 की धारा 13- क की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए भार : निर्वाचन अायोग , लक्कादीव , 
मिनीकीय और अमी : दीपी द्वीप के प्रशास से रामर्श करके , श्री सी० एच० नैर के स्थान पर 
श्री के० दामोदर मेंना, प्रशासक , लक्कादीया, लिभीकीय अं.र अमीनदीत्री द्वीप संघ - राज्यक्षेत्र , को 
1 नवम्बर , 1969 के अपराहन स लक्कादीव , मिनीकोय और भीनदीपी द्वी : संघ राज्यक्षेत्र के 
लिए मुख निर्वाचन बाफिसर के रूप में एतद्वारा नाम निर्देशित करता है । 

[ सं० 154/ 27/ 69 ] 

आदेश से , 
क० एस० राजगोपालन , सचिध । 


( 5083 ) 


5084 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV. 22, 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [ PART II 


Neu Delhi, the 7th November 1969 
S . 0 . 4635. - In pursuance of the provisions contained in sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
13AA of the Representation of the People Act , 1950 , and in supersession of its 
notification No . 508/ J & K / 66, dated the 26th December , 1966, the Election Com. 
mission , in consultation with the State Government hereby designates the Deputy 
Commissioner of each district in the State of Jammu and Kashmir to be the 
District Election Officer for that district . 

[ No. 508 / J & K / 69 ( 1 ). ] 

By order, 
K . S. RAJAGOPALAN, Secy . 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 18th October 1969 
S .O . 4636 . — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Om Prakash , 
Medical Practitioner, Dhuri Gate , Sangrur a contesting candidate for the mid - term 
general election held in February , 1969 to the Punjab Legislative Assembly from 
Sangrur constituency , has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as 
required by the Representation of the People Act , 1951, and the Rules made 
thereunder and the said candidate , even after due notices , has not given any reason 
or explanation for the failure ; 

And whereas the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for the failure . 
____ Now , therefore , in pursuance of section - 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Om Prakash to be disqualified for 
being chosen as , and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order. 

[ No. PB-LA/ 92 / 69 (9). ] 


प्रादेश 


नई दिल्ली , 18 अक्टूबर , 1969 


. 


एस प्रो० 4636.---- यत : निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है कि फरवरी, 1969 
में हुए पंजाब विधा : सभा के लिए मध्यावधि निर्वाचन के लिए संगहर निर्वाचन- क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले 
उम्मीदवार श्री ओम प्रकाश, मैडिकल प्रेक्टिमनर, घुरी गेट , संगरूर, लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 
1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए मा । नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित अपने-निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल 
में असफल रहे है । 


और, यतः उक्त उम्मीदवार उसे सम्यक सूचना दिए जाने पर भी लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल 
रहा है और उगते पाती इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है, तथा 
निर्वाचन आयोग का यह समाधान हो गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण 
या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है । 


अतः इ, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 -क के अनुसरण में निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्वारा उक्त 
श्री ओम प्रकाश को संपद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा अथवा विधान परिषद् 
के सदस्य चने जाने और होने के लिए, इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निरहित 
घोषित करता है । 


सिं० पंजाब-वि० सं०/ 92/ 69( 9.] 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22 , 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5085 


- 


- 


New Delhi, the 25th October 1969 


S. 0 . 4637. - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfled that Shri Dalip Singh , 
Village and P . 0 . Valtoha . Tehsil Patti, District Ar . ritsar a contesting candidate 
for the mid - terin general election held in February , 1969 to the Punjab Legislative 
Assembly from Vaitoha constituency , has failed to lodge an account of his election 
expenses in thc manner required by the Representation of the People Act, 1961, 
and the Rules made thereunder; 


And whereas the said candidate , even after due notices , has not given any reason 
or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that he 
has no good reusori or justification for the failure ; 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A o to the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Dalip Singh to be disqualifed for being 
chosen as , and for being , a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a Ştate for a period of three years 
from the date of this order . 

[ No. PB- LA/ 18 / 69 ( 10 ). ] 

By Order, 
ROSHAN LAL, Secy . 


नई दिल्ली , 25 अक्तूबर , 1969 


एस० प्रो० 4637. - .- ग्रतःनिर्वाचन अायोग का समाधान हो गया है कि फरवरी, 1969 में 
हुए पंजाब विधान सभा के लिए मध्यावधि निर्वाचन के लिए बाल्टोहा निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चुनाव 
लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री दलीप सिंह ग्राम व डाकघर वाल्टोहा , तहसील पट्टी जिला अमृतसर लोक 
प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 नथा तदधीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित रीति में अपने 
निर्वाचन व्ययों का लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे हैं ; 


और, यतः उक्त उम्मीदवार उसे सम्यक सूचना दिए जाने पर भी लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल 
रहा है और उसने अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है , तथा 
निर्वाचन आयोग का यह समाधान हो गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण 
या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है ; 


अतः, अब उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10- क के अनुसरण में निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्वारा उक्त 
श्री दलीप सिह को संसद् के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा अथवा विधान परिषद् 
के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए, इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निरहित 
शोषित करता है । 


[ सं० पंजाब-वि० सं०/ 18/ 69 ( 10) ] 


प्रादेश से , 


रोसन लाल , सचिव । 


5086 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV. 22 , 1969 /AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 (PART II — 


MINISTRY OF TOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 11th November 1969 
S . O . 4638 .- " " se cf the powers confcrred by section 7 of the Laccadive. 
Minicoy and Ariji Islands ( Civil. Courts ) Regulation , 1965 ( 9 of 1965 ) , the 
Central Govern :nent hereby makes the following amendment in the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs No . S . O . 1154, dated 
the 19th March. . : ), namely : 

Amendment 
In the Table appended to the said notification , against the entry relating to 
" 2 . Court of Subordinate . Judge " for the words " The Islamd of Kavaratti " , in 
coulmn ( 2 ) , the words " Kozhikode in Kerala State, the Island of Kavarattl" shall 
be substituted . 


[ No . F . 9 / 1 / 69- UTL.] 
P . N . KAUL , Dy . Secy . 


NOTICE 

New Delhi, the 6th November 1969 
S . O . 4639. — Notice is hereby given by the Competent Authority in pursuance of 
rule 6 of the Notaries Rules, 1956, that application has been made to the said 
Authority , under rule 4 of the said Rules, by Shri D . D . Kakkar, Advocate , 36 / 9 , 
East Patel Nagar , Delhi- 8 , for appointment as a notary to practise in Delhi. 

2 . Any objection to the appointment of the said person as a notary may be 
submitted in writing to the undersigned within fourteen days of the publication 
of this notice. 


[ No . 22 / 30 / 69 -Judl. III .] 
K . THYAGARAJAN , 

Competent Authority . 


नोटिस 


नई दिल्ली 6 नवम्बर 1969 


एस० प्रो0 4639: - --इसके द्वारा, लेख्य प्रमाणक नियम ( नोटरीज रूल्स ) , 1956 के नियम 
6 के अनुसार, सक्षम प्राधिकारी द्वारा सूचना दी जाती है कि उक्त प्राधिकारी को डी० डी० कक्कर , 
अधिवक्ता, 36/ 9, पूर्वी पटेल नगर ,दिल्ली 8 ने उक्त नियमों के नियम 4 के अधीन , दिल्ली में लेख्य 
प्रमाणक ( नोटरी ) का नाम करने की लियक्ति के लिये आवेदन -पत्र भेजा है । 

उक्त व्यक्ति की लेख्य प्रमाणक के रूप में नियक्ति के बारे में यदि कोई आपत्तियां हों तो वे इस 
नोटिस के प्रकाशित होने के चौदह दिन के अन्दर नीचे हस्ताक्षर करने वाले को लिखकर भेज दिये जाये । 

[ सं० 22 30/ 69- न्यायिक 

के त्यागराजन , 
सक्षम प्राधिकारी । 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 22nd October 1969 
S . O . 4640 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Emigration 
Act 1922 (VII of 1922) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri V . N . Mokash 


SEC. 3 ( i ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV. 22 , 1969 /AGRAHAYANA 1 , 1891 5087 


Public Relations Officer, Regional Passport and Emigration , Omce , Delhi to be 
Protector of Emigrants, Delhi in addition to his own duties with effect from 3rd 
October , 1969, vice Shri M . M . Saigal, relieved of his duties on transfer . 

[No. CP & EO / 18 / 69. 1 
M . L . KHOSLA , Attache (PVA ), 


विदेश मंत्रालय 


Tf fuit, 22 7492 , 1969 


CAO 10 4640 : - - JSTaTa fufc # , 1922 ( 1922 AT HTTST ) OFT ETTI 3 OCT 
प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्र सरकार इसके द्वारा श्री वी० एन० मोकाशी , जन सम्पर्क 
अधिकारी, क्षेत्रीय पासपोर्ट एवं उत्प्रवास कार्यालय , दिल्ली को , उनके कार्य के अतिरिक्त , 3 अक्टूबर, 
1969 से उत्प्रवासी संरक्षक भी नियुक्त करती है । श्री वी० एन० मोकाशी श्री एम० एम० सेगल 
की जगह नियुक्त किए गए हैं , जिन्होने स्थानान्तरण हो जाने पर अपने पद का कार्यभार छोड़ दिया । 

(Foto40 97 foto / 18 /69 } 

एम० एल० खोसला , 
wart ( ) 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

(Department of Banking ) 

New Delhi, the 5th November 1969 
S . O . 4641, - Whereas on an application made by the Reserve Bank of India 
uniler sub - section ( 1 ) of section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 ( 10 of 
1949 ) , the Central Government has made, under sub -section ( 2 ) of the said section 
45 an order of moratorium in respect of the Bank of Behar Limited , Patna , under 
sub - section ( 2 ) of the said section , 

And whereas the Reserve Bank of India in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 45 of the said Act has prepared a scheme for the 
amalgamation of the Bank of Behar Limited , Patna with the State Bank of India . 

And whereas the Reserve Bank after having sent the said scheme in draft to 
the banks concerned in accordance with the provisions of sub - section ( 6 ) of the 
said section and after having considered the suggestions and objections received 
in regard to the said scheme has modified that scheme and forwarded it to the 
Central Government for sanction . 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 7 ) cf 
section 45 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby sanctions the scheme 2 
and subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter mentioned. 

( 1 ) The Bank of Behar Limited , shall be the transferor bank and the State 
Bank of India shall be the transferee bank . 

(2 ) As from the datę which the Central Government may specify urder sub 
section ( 7 ) of section 45 of the said Act (hereinafter referred to as the prescribed 
date ) , all rights , powers , claims, demands, interests , authorities, privileges, benefits , 
assets and properties of the transferor bank , movable and immovable , including 
premises subject to all incidents of tenure and to the rents and other sums of 
money and covenants reserved by or contained in the leascs or agreements under 
which they are held , all office furniture , loose equipment, plant, apparatus and 
appliances , books, papers , stocks of stationery , other stocks and stores , all invest 
ments in stocks, shares and securities , all bills reçelavable in hand and in transit, 
all cash in hand and on current or deposit account ( including money at call ( 1 
short notice ) with banks, bullion , all book debts , mortgage debts and other debts 


5088 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV, 22 , 1969 /AGRAHAYANA I , 1891 (PART II 


with the benefit of securities , or any guarantee therefor , all other , if any, property 
rights and assets of every description including all rights ot action and beneat of 
all guarantees in connection with the business of the transferor bank shall, subject 
to the other provisions of this scheme, stand transferred to , and become the pro 
perties and assets of, the transferee bank ; and as from the prescribeul date all the 
liabilities , duties and obligations of the transferor bank shall be and shall become 
the liabilities, duties and obligations of the transferee bank to the extent and in 
the manner provided hereinafter . 

Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, all contracts . 
deeds, bonds , agreements , powers of attorney , grants of legal representation and 
other instruments of whatever nature subsisting or having effect immediately before 
the prescribed date shall be effective to the extent and in the manner hereinafter 
provided against or in favour of the transferee bank and may be acted upon as iſ 
Instead of the transferor bank the transferce bank had been : party thereto or as 
if they had been issued in favour of the transferee bank . 

It on the prescribed date any suit, appeal or other legal proceedings of what 
ever nature by or against the transferor bank is pending , the same shall not ahate , 
or be discontinued or be in any way prejudicially affected , but shall subject to 
the other provisions of this scheme, be prosecuted and enforced by or against the 
transferee bank . 

If according to the laws of any country outside India the provisions of this 
scheme, by themselves, are not effective to transfer or vest any asset or liability 
situated in that country which forms part of the undertaking of the transferor 
bank to or in the transferce bank , the affairs of the transferor bank in relation 
to such asset or liability shall. On the prescribed date , stand entrusted to the 
chief executive officer for the time being of the transferee bank and the chief 
executive Officer may exercise all powers and do all such acts and things as 
would have been exercised or done by the transferor bank for the purpose of 
effectively winding up its affairs. The chief executive officer shall take all such 
steps as may be required by the laws of any such country outside India for the 
purpose of effecting such transfer or vesting and in connection therewith the chief 
executive officer may , either himself or through any person authorised by him 
in this behalt , realise any asset or discharge any liabillty of the transferor bank 
and transfer the net proceeds thercoſ to the transferce bank . 


( 3 ) The books of the transferor bank shall be closed and balanced and balance 
sheets prepared in the first instance as at the close of business on the oth August , 
1969 and thereafter as at the close of business on the date immediately preceding 
the prescribed date and the balance - sheets shall be got audited and certified by 
a chartered accountant or a firm of chartered accountants approved or nominated 
by the Reserve Bank of India for the purpose . 

A copy each of the balance - sheets of the transferor bank prepared in accordance 
with the provisions of the foregoing sub -paragraph , shall be Aled by the transferor 
bank with the Registrar of Companies as soon as possible after it has been received 
and thereafter the transferor bank shall not be required to prepare balance - sheets 
or profit and loss accounts , or to lay the same hetore its members or Ale copies 
thereof with the Registrar of Companies or to hold any annual general meetings 
for the purpose of considering the balance - sheet and accounts or for any other 
purpose or to comply with the provisions of section 159 of the Companies Act, 
1956 ( 1 of 1956 ) , and it shall not thereafter be necessary for the Board of 
Directors of the transferor bank to meet as required by section 285 of that Act. 

( 4 ) The transferee bank shall, in consultation with the transferor bank , value 
the property and assets and reckon the labilities of the transferor bank in 
accordance with the following provisions, namely , 
( a ) Investments including Government securities shall be valued at the 

market rates prevailing on the day immediately preceding the pres 

cribed date : 
Provided that the securities of the Central Government such as Post 

Once Cert(Acates , Treasury Savings Deposit Certificates and any 
other securities or certificates issued under the small savings 
scheme of the Central Government shall be valued at their face 
value or the encashable value as on the said date , whichever is 

higher , 
b ) where the market value of any Government security such as the 

Zamindari Abolition Bonds or other similar security in respect of 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV , 22, 1969/ AGRAHAYANA 1 , 1891 5089 


which the principal ig payable in instalments is not ascertainable or 
is , for any reason , not considered as reflecting the fair value thereof 
or as otherwise appropriate, the security shall be valued at such an 
amount as is considered reasonable having regard to the instalments 
of principal and interest remaining to be paid , the period during 
which such instalments are payable , the yield of any security issued 
by the Government to which the security pertains and having the 

same or approximately the same maturity , and other relevant factors ; 
( c ) where the market value of any security , share. debenture, bond or 

other investment is not considerecl reasonable by reason of its having 
been affected by abnormal factors, the investment in ar be valued on 

the basis of its average market value over any reasonable period : 
( d ) where the market value of any security , share , debenture , bond or 

other investment is not ascertainable , only such value , if any , shall 
be taken into account as is considered rcasonable , having regard to 
the financial position of the Issuing concern , the dividends paid by it 

during the preceding Ave years and other relevant factors ; 
( e ) premises and all other immovable properties and any assets acquired 

in satistaction of clain s shall be valued at their market value : 
( f ) furniture and Axtures , stationery in stock and other assets , if any , shall 

be valued at the written down value as per books or the realisable 

value 4s may be considered reasonable ; 
( g ) advances , including bills purchased and discounted . book debts and 

sundry assets , will be scrutinised by the transferee bank and the 
securities, including guarantees , held as cover therefor examined and 
veriſed by the transferec bank . Thereafter. the advances , including 
portions thereof, will be classified into two categories, namely , 
" Advances considered good and readily realisable " and " Advances 

considered not readily realisable and / or bad or doulstful of recovery " . 
( h ) liabilities for the purposes of this scheme shall include all contingent 

liabilities which the transferee bank may reasonably be expected or 
required to meet out of its own resources on or after the prescribed 

date . 
JI. Where the valuation of any asset cannot be determined on the prescribed 
date . it may, with the approval of the Reserve Bank or India be treated partly 
or wholly as an assel realisable at a later date . 

In the event of any disagreement between the transleree bank and flie 
transferor bank as regards the valuation of any asset or the classification of any 
advance or the determination of any liability , the matter shall be referred to the 
Reserve Bank of India , whose opinion thercon shall be Anal : 

Provided that until such an opinion is received , the valuation of the item or 
portion thereof by the transferee bank shall provisionally be adopted for the pur 
pose of this scheme. 

it shall be competent for the Reserve Bank in the event of Ils becoming 
necessary to do so , to obtain such technical advice as it may consider to be 
appropriate in connection with the valuation of any such item of asset or delerini 
nation of any such item of liability , and the cost of obtaining such advice shali 
be payable in full out of the assets of the transferor bank . 

The valuation of the assets and the determination of the liabilities in accordance 
with the foregoing provisions shall be binding on both the banks and the members 
and creditors thereof. 

(5 ) In consideration of the transfer of the property and the assets of the 
transferor bank to the transferee bank the transferee bank shall discharge the 
liabilities of the transferor bank to the extent mentioned in this and the following 
clauses , namely , 
( a ) any sums deposited by any employee of the transferor bank with that 

bank as staff security deposits together with interest if any accrued 
thereon up to the prescribed date and all other outside liabilities as 
on the prescribed date excluding deposits shall be paid or provided 

for in full , 
Explanation .- - For the purposes of this clause , interest payable on a deposit 

up to the prescribed date shall be regarded as part of the concerned 
deposit ; 


5000 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV . 22 , 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [Part II 


(b ) in respect of every savings bank account or current account or any 

other deposit including a fixed deposit , cash certificate , monthly 
deposit , deposit payable at call or short notice or any other deposit 
by whatever name called with the transferor bank and every other 
account not covered by clause ( a ) , including interest to the extent 
payable under this scheme, the transferee bank shall open with itselt 
on the prescribed date a corresponding and similar account in the 
name of the respective holder ( s ) thereof crediting there the pro 
rata share available in respect of each of the accounts out of the 
assets referred to in paragraph ( 4 ) as valued for the purposes of 
this scheme on the prescribed date , after cxcluding from the said 
assets as $ o valued the advances considered not readily realisable or 
bad or doubtful of recovery , any asset or portion of an asset not 
valued on the prescribed date and any amount needed for the pay 
ments or provisions mentioned at clause ( a ) above and after adding 
to the said assets as so valued the aggregate amount of the payments 
made in terms of clause ( a ) ( i ) of paragraph 2 of the moratorium order 

dated the 8th August, 1969 , issued to the transferor bank : 
Provided that any payment made from a deposit account on or after the 

10th August , 1969, and before the prescribed date , shall be reckoned 
towards the amount to be credited under this sub - paragraph and , 
accordingly the amount to be credited shall be the pro rata share 

less the amount of such payment : 
Provided further that where the transferee bank entertains a reasonable 

doubt as to the correctness of the entries made in any particular 
the credit to be made in that account in terms of clause (b ) above 
till the transferee bank is able to ascertain the correct balance in 

such account . 
Explanation . The term pro rata shall, in so far as it occurs in this para 

graph , mean in proportion to the respective amounts remaining due 
as at the close of business on the 9th August, 1969, ( inclusive of inte 
rest payable up to that date ) and shall, in so far as it occurs else 
where in this scheme, mean in proportion to the respective amounts 

remaining due at the time of the payment or distribution ; 
( c ) after the credits referred to in clause (b ) above have been afforded , 

the transferee bank shall, with the least possible delay but in any 
case not later than three months from the prescribed date , furnish 
to the deposit Insurance Corporation established under the Deposit 
Insurance Corporation Act , 1961 (47 of 1961, hereinafter referred to 
as the Corporation ) a list complying in all respects with the require 
ments of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 18 of that Act and thereafter 
whenever amounts referred to in sub - section ( 2 ) of section 18 of that 
Act are recelved from the Corporation , the transferee bank shall 
credit each of the accounts referred to in clause ( b ) above , within 
seven days from the date or dates on which the amounts are received . 
to the extent of the sums due to that account in accordance with sub 

section ( 2 ) of section 18 of that Act : 
Provided that , 
(1) if any account referred to in clause ( b ) has been closed or has 

matured for payment at the time when any amount for credit to 
that account is received from the Corporation , the payment to the 
person entitled to the said amount shall be made by the transferee 

bank in cash ; 
( i ) in case the person entitled to any amount referred to in clause ( b ) 

cannot be found or is not readily traceable , provision for the 
amount due to such person shall be made and accounted for 
separately in the books of the Corporation itself and it shall not 
be necessary for the Corporation to pay the amounts to the 
transferee bank unless the person entitled to the amount is found 
or traced and the Corporation has decided to make the payment 
in respect of that person through the transferee bank ; 


Kas on the precribed date , the entire amount of the pald -up capital and 

reserves of the transferor bank shall be treated as provision for bad 


SBC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV , 22 , 1969 /AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5091 


and doubtful debts and depreciation in other assets of the transferor 
bank and the rights of the members of the transferor bank shall, in 
relation to thọ transferee bank , be as provided for in paragraph (6 ) 

below . 
( 6 ) In respect of, 
( A ) every account mentioned in clause (b ) of the preceding paragraph , the 

balance in the account, if any , remaining uncredited in terms of that 

clause and clause ( c ) and 
( B ) every share in the transferor bank , the amount of which was treated 

aş paid up towards share capital by of or on behalf of each share 
holder immediately before the prescribed date and / or the amount 
paid on account of the calls made by the transferee bank in pursuance 

of sub - clause ( i) below , 
shall be treated as a collection account and shall be entered as guch in the books 
of the transferee bank and payments against the account shall be made in the 
following manner , namely , 

( 1) the transferee bank may, 
( a ) in the first instance , call upon every person who on the prescribed 

date was registered as the hilder of a deferred share in the 
transferor bank (or would have been entitled to be so registered ) to 
pay within three months from such date or dates as may be specified , 
the uncalled amount remaining unpaid by him in respect of such 
shares and the calls in arrears , if any and thereafter, if it is found 
to be so necessary, every person who was, as on the prescribed 
date , registered as the holder of an ordinary share of the transferor 
bank (or would have been entitled to be so registered ) to pay 
within three months from such date or dates as may be specified , 
the uncalled amount remaining unpaid by him in respect of such 

share or shares or the calls in arrears , if any ; and 
( b ) take all available steps having regard to the circumstances of each 

case to demand and enforce the payment of the amounts due under 
this clause , together with interest at six per cent per annum for 

the period of the default; 
( ii) the transferee bank shall, in respect of the advances , bills purchased 

and discounted , book debts and sundry debts and other assets , which 
are classified as " Advances considered not readily realisable and / or 
bad or doubtful of recovery " , or which are or inay be realisable 
wholly or partly after the prescribed date in terms of paragraph (4 ) 
above, take all available steps having regard to the circumstances of 
each case to demand and enforce payment, provided , however , that if 
the amount of a debt or asset exceeds Rs. 10 , 000, the transferee bank 

shall not, except with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India , - 
( a ) enter into a compromise or arrangement with the debtor or any other 

person or write off any such debt or asset ; 
(b ) sell or otherwise dispose of any securities transferred to it cr any 

asset taken over by it ; 
( ii) the transferee bank shall in addition take all available steps Having 

regard to the circumstances of each case to demand and enforce the 
payment of the amounts , if any , awarded as damages by the High 
Court against any promoter , director, manager or other officer of the 
transferor bank under section 45L of the Banking Regulation Act, 
1949, read with section 45H thereof and also with section 543 of the 

Companies Act, 1956 ; 
( iv ) the transferee bank may, out of the realisations effected by it on 

account of the items mentioned in sub - clauses ( 1 ) , ( ii) and ( 111) 
above , make payment or provision in respect of any contingent 
liability to the extent that the provision made therefor under para 
graph (5 ) ( a ) proves to be inadequate , as also with the prior approval 
of the Reserve Bank , in respect of any liability whether contingent 
or absolute which was not assessed in terms of paragraph ( 4 ) above 

and has arisen or been discovered on or after the prescribed date ; 
( v ) the transferee bank shall out of the realisations affected by it on account 

of the items mentioned in sub - clauses ( i) , ( 11) and (111) above after 


5092 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV , 22, 1969 / AORAHAYANA I, 1891 (Part II - 


deducting therefrom the expenditure incurred for the purpose and , 
with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India , such other expenses 
as may be considered reasonable and the amount appropriated 
therefrom in terms of clause ( iv ) above, or out of the balance , if any , 
which may be available from out of the provision in respect of 
contingent liabilities as reckoned for the purposes of this schome after 

the exlent of such llabilities has finally been ascertained , -- 
( a ) pay to the Corporation the amount received by the transferee bank 

from the Corporation under sub - section ( 2 ) of section 18 of the 
Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 1961 and the amount, if any. 

provided for by the Corporation , and 
(b ) pay, in the case of depositors in respect of whom no amounts have 

been received by the transferee bank from the Corporation , the 
amounts due in respect of the collection accounts , and in the case 
of depositors in respect of whom any amounts have been received 
by the transferee bank from the Corporation or have been provided 
for by the Corporation the balance if any due to them in their 
collection accounts after the amounts due from the sald accounts 
to the Corporation in respect of the payment made or provided for 
by the Corporation have first been paid in accordance with the 

provisions of sub - clause ( a ) above : 
Provided that the amount due to the Corporation shall , if it becomes 

necessary so to do, be provided for in the books of the transferee 
bank and be paid to the Corporation in the manner specified in 
clause (b ) of regulation 22 of the Deposit Insurance Corporation 

General Regulations, 1961: 
Provided further that the transferee bank shall make the payments 

referred to in clause (b ) above, 
( 1) if the corresponding or similar account mentioned in clause (b ) 

of paragraph (5 ) has not been closed or has not matured for 

payment, by credit to that account, and 
( ID) if the said account has been closed or has matured for payment, 

in cash ; 
( vi) the amounts due to the Corporation in terms of sub - clause (a ) ot 

clause ( v ) above and the amounts due to the collection accounts of the 
depositors in terms of sub - clause (b ) of that clause shall rank equally 
among themselves, and if they cannot be paid in full shall abate in 

equal proportions; 
( vil ) after the payments referred to in clause ( V ) of this paragraph have 

been made or provided for in full, the transferee bank shall , out of 
the balance of the amounts referred to in clause ( v ) which inay be 
available to it, make payments pro rata towards the amounts , if any, 
due to the accounts of the former shareholders of the transferor bank 

in the manner and to the extent specited below : 
( a ) in the Arst place , the amounts , if any, due to the accounts of the 

former preference shareholders of the transferor bank till payment 

in full against all the accounts has been made; 
(b ) in the second place , the amounts , if any , due to the accounts of the 

fomer ordinary shareholders of the transferor bank till payment in 

full against all the accounts has been made; and thereafter 
( c ) in the third place , the amounts , if any, due to the accounts of the 

former deferred shareholders of the transferor bank till payment 

in full against all the accounts has been made ; 
( d ) after all the amounts mentioned in sub - clauses ( a ) , (b ) and ( c ) above 

have been paid in full, the surplus, if any, remaining in the hands 
of the transferee bank shall be distributed pro rata among the 

former ordinary shareholders of the transſeror bank : 
Provided that if any question arises whether any amounts are due 

against an account mentioned in any of the above sub - clauses, it 
shall be referred to the Reserve Bank of India whose decision 

thereon shall be final : 
Provided further that the transferee bank shall give to any person to 

whom any payment may be due under sub - clausęs ( a ) , (b ) and ( c ) 


Suc. 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV, 22, 1969/ AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 S003 


abovc, such reasonable notice , not exceeding three months and not 
being less than one month as it may consider approprlate of the 

payment being due, and 
( a ) iſ during the period ot this notice a request has not been received 

in writing for the payment of the amount due in cash and if the 
amount of the payment due is also not less than the highest closing 
price of an ordinary share in the transferee bank as quoted on any 
recognised stock exchange on or immediately before the date on 
which the notice is issued , or where the ordinary share of the 
transtercc bank is not quoted on any recognised stock exchange 
the price of the share as determined by the Reserve Bank , the 
transferee bank shall allot to the payee a share or shares in the 
transferee bank to the extent possible and disbursc in cash the 

balance, if any , of the amount which may be clue ; and 
(b ) iť the conditions mentioned in sub - clause ( a ) above are not fulAlled 

the transferee bank shall disburse the amount in cash : 
Provided further that the allotment of the shares or the payments 

aforesaid shall in each case be made before the end of six months 
from the date on which notice of the payment l alling due is 
deemed to have been served in accordance with the provisions of 

this scheme: 
(viii ) the amounts due to the collection accounts referred to in this paragraph 

shall be deemed to be a liability of the transferee bank only to the 

extent provided for in this scheme; 
(ix ) on the expiry of twelve years from the prescribed date or such earlier 

period as the Central Government after consulting the Reserve Bank 
of India may specify for this purpose , any Item referred to in 
clause ( ii ) of this paragraph which may not have been realised by 
that date shall be valued by the transferec bank in consultation with 
the Reserve Bank and the transferee bank shall distribute any 
amount or amounts determined in the light of that valuation after 
deducting therefrom first any sum necessary for meeting the liabilities 
referred to in clause ( iv ) of this paragraph which may remain un 
satisfied as on that date in the order and the manner provided in 

clauses ( v ) , ( vi) and ( vii ) above ; 
( x ) the transferee bank shall invest such moneys realised on account of 

items mentioned in the preceding clauses ( i ) , ( ii ) and ( iii) as are 
not likely to be required by it for immediate payment, in interest 
bearing deposits with itsell or with any other bank or banks, in such 
manner and for such periods as may be appropriate having regard to 
the facts and circumstances of the case or as the Reserve Bank of 
India may direct. The interest accrued shall be applied for meeting 
the liabilities referred to in clauses (iv ) , ( v ) , (vi) and ( vii) in the 

manner indicated therein . 
( 7 ) For the purposes of allotment to the shareholders of the transferor bank 
of shares in the transferee bank in terms of the foregoing paragraphs, - 
( i ) the transferee bank may issue shares in the manner and to the extent 

specified in this scheme and thereupon the share capital of the 
transferee bank shall, notwithstanding the provisions of any enact 
ment, regulation or other instrument. be decmed to have been increased 

to the extent of the shares which are so issued ; or 
( II ) the transferee bank may pay an amount cquivalent to the value of the 

shares which are required to be issued in pursuance of the scheme 
to the Reserve Bank of India and thereupon in consideration of the 
amounts so paid , the Reserve Bank of India shall, out of the shares 
held by it in the transferee bank , transfer shares of an equivalent 
amount, for and on account of the shareholders of the transferor bank 

who may be entitled to the allotment of the said shares : 
Provided that the Reserve Bank shall not be called upon to transfer shares 

held by it in the transferee bank , if as a result of the transfer , the 
shares held by it are reduced to less than Afty five per cent of the 

issued capital of the transferee bank . 
( 8 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing paragraphs, the 
allotment of shares under this scheme shall not be made in such a manner that any 


5094 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV , 22 , 1969 /AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [Part II - - 


provisfree bain be pathe station 


person other than the Reserve Bank of India , a Corporation , an insurer as 
defined in the Insurance Act , 1938 ( 4 of 1938 ) , a local authority , a co -operative 
society or a trustee of a public or private religious or charitable trust, comes to 
be registered as a shareholder , whether in his own name or jointly with any 
other person , of more than two hundred shares in the transferee bank ; and for 
securing the above, the number of shares issuable to any person under this 
scheme, shall, if necessary, be reduced proportionately , payment being made in 
cash instead of in shares to that extent. 

( 9 ) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any contract , express 
or implied , no interest shall accrue on account of a deposit or other liability in 
any account mentioned in paragraphs (5 ) and ( 6 ) after the date of the moratorim 
except in respect of the staff security deposits mentioned in paragraph ( 5 ) ( a ) and 
interest shall be paid only in respect of the new accounts opened with the 
transferee bank in terms of paragraph ( 5 ) and credited in accordance with the 
provisions of that or the next succeeding paragraph and only at such rates ar s the 
transferee bank may allow . 

( 10 ) No depositor or other creditor of the transferor bank shall be entitled to 
make any demand against the transferor bank or the transferee bank in respect 
of any liability of the transferor bank to him except to the extent prescribed by 
this scheme. 

(11) No suit or other legal proceedings shall lle against the Central Govern 
ment, the Reserve Bank of India or the transferee or the transferor bank for 
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of 
this scheme. 

( 12 ) All the employees of the transferor bank other than those specified in 
the schedule referred to in the succeeding paragraph shall continue in service 
and be deemed to have been appointed by the transferee bank at the same 
remuneration and on the same terms and conditions of service as were applicable 
to such employees immediately before the 10th August , 1969 : 
Provided that the employees of the transferor bank who have, by notice in 

writing given to the transferor or the transferee bank at any time 
before the expiry of one month next following the date on which 
this scheme has been sanctioned by the Central Government, intimated 
their intention of not becoming employees of the transferee bank , 
shall be entitled to the payment of such compensation , if any, under 
the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , and 
such pension , gratuity , provident fund and other retirement benefits 
as may be ordinarily admissible under the rules or authorisations of 

the transferor bank immediately before the 10th August, 1969 : 
Provided further that the transferee bank shall in respect of the employees 

of the transferor bank who are deemed to have been appointed as 
employees of the transferee bank be deemed also to have taken 
over liability for the payment of retrenchment compensation in the 
event of their being retrenched while in the service of the transferee 
bank on the basis that their service has been continuous and has 

not been interrupted by their transfer to the transferee bank . 
( 13 ) The persons specified in the Schedule annexed to this scheme shall. on 
the prescribed date , cease to be the employees of the transferor bank and notwith 
standing anything contained in any law for the time being in force or any 
agreement or contract , the persons so specifled shall be entitled to and only to 
such pension , gratuity , provident fund and other retirement benefits as may be 
ordinarily admissible to them under the rules or authorisations of the transferor 
bank immediately before the 10th August, 1969 . 

Provided that the compensation , if any, for the loss of employment, so far as 
it relates to the unexpired portion of any contract of service, shall be such and 
only as may be determined by the Reserve Bank (whose determination in this 
respect shall be final and binding ) : 
Provided further that nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the 

transferee bank from re - employing any person whose name has been 
specified in the schedule annexed to this scheme in such capacity and 

on such terms and conditions as the transferee bank may deem ft. 
( 14 ) The transferee bank shall, on the expiry of a period not longer than 
three years from the date on which this scheme is sanctioned , pay or grant to 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOV. 22, 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5095 


the employees of the transferor bank the sanie remuneration and the same terms 
and conditions of service as are applicable to the employees of corresponding 
rank or status of the transferee bank subject to the qualifications and experience 
of the said employees of the transferor bank being the same as or equivalent to 
those of such other employees of the transferee bank : 
Provided that if any doubt or difference arises as to whether the qualifica 

tions or cxperience of any of the said employees are the same as or 
equivalent to the qualifications and experience of the other employees . 
of corresponding rank or status of the transferee bank or as to the 
procedure or principles to be adopted for the fixation of the pay of 
the employees in the scales of pay of the transferee bank , the cloubt 
or difference shall be referred to the Reserve Bank of India whose 

decision thereon shall be final. 
( 15 ) The trustees or administrators of any provident fund constituted for the 
employees of the transferor bank or as the case may be the transferor bank shall 
on or as soon as possible after the prescribed date transfer to the trustees of the 
employees provident fund constituted for the transferee bank , or ctherwise as 
the transferee bank may direct, all the money and Investments held in trust for 
the beneAt of the employees of the transferor bank : 
Provided that such latter trustees shall not be liable for any deficiency in 

the value of investments, or in respect of any act , reglect , or default. 

done before the prescribed date . 
( 16 ) The transferee bank shall submit to the Reserve Bank of India such . 
statements and information as may be required by the Reserve Bank of India from 
time to time regarding the implementation of this scheme. 

( 17 ) The transferee bank shall furnish to the shareholders of the transferor 
bank a statement of allairs of the transferor bank in such form and at such 
periodical intervals as the Reserve Bank of India may specify in this behalf. 
The sending of such statements shall be discontinued when so directed by the 
Reserve Bank . 

( 18 ) Any notice or other communication required to be given by the transferee 
bank shall be considered to be duly glyen if addressed and sent by pro -paid 
ordinary post to the addressee at the address registered in the books of the 
transferor bank , until a new address is registered in the books of the transferee 
bank , and such notice shall be done to be served on the expiry or forty - eight 
hours after it has been posted . Any notice or communication which is of general 
interest shall be advertised in addition in one or more daily newspapers which 
may be in circulation at the places where the transferor bank was transacting 
its business , 

( 19 ) If any doubt arises in interpreting any of the provisions of this scheme, 
the matter shall be referred to the Reserve Bank of India ard its opinion shall. 
be conclusive and binding on both the transferee and transieror banks, and also 
on all the members, depositors and other creditors and employees of each of 
these banks and on any other person having any rights or liability in relation 
to any of these banks. 

( 20 ) IL any dimculty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this scheme, 
the Central Governmentm ice to the transferor and the transfcree banks or 
to either of them such directions not inconsistent with the provisions oť this 
scheme as may appear to the Central Government, after consulting the Reserve 
Barik of India , to be necessary or appropriate for the purpose of removing the 
difficulty . 
Schedule attached to and forming part of the scheme for the amalgamation of the 
Bank of Behat Ltd . as sanctioned by the Central Government under sub - section ( 7 ) 

of section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) 


Name of the employee 


Designation in the transferer bank 


1 . ShriShri Narayan Singh , 


. 


, 


GeneralManager 
(Chief Executive Officer ) , 
Ilead Office . 


5096 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV. 22, 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 (PART 1 - 


2 . Shri Madan Mohan Pandit 


3 . Shri Arbind Lal Mani Lal Gandhi 


4 . Shri Kailash Prasad Sinha 


(Estab 


5 , Shri Surendra Kumar 


Secretary, 

Head Office . 
Chief Accountant, 

Ilead Office , 
· Superintendent of Branches 

lishment ) , 

Head Office 
Inspector of Branches , 

Head Office. 
Manager, Barajamda Branch , 
Manager, Kanpur Branch . 
Manager. Monghyr Branch . 
Oficer, Phusro Bazar Branch . 


6 . Shri Indra Narain Verma 
7. Shri Mahadeo Prasad Kapoor 
8 . Shri Sanat Prasad Verma 
9 . Shri Satya Narain Prasad 


[ No . F . 17 ( 10 ) -BC /69.] 
$ . 0 . 4642 . - In pursuance of sub -section ( 7 ) of Section 45 of the Banking Regula 
tion Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949), the Central Government hereby specifies the 8th Noverr. 
ber , 1969 as the prescribed date in relation to the scheme for the amalgamation of 
the Bank of Behar Ltd ., with the State Bank of India which has been sanctioned 
by the Central Governnient under the provisions of the said sub - section . 


[ No . F . 17 ( 10 )- BC / 69 (1). ] 
S . O . 4643 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section 2 oť Section 45 of 
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949) , and in modifcation of this Ministry s 
Notification No. F . 17 ( 10 ) - BC / 69 dated the 8th August , 1969 , the Central Gover 
ment hereby directs that the order of moratorium made by it in respect of the Bank 
of Behar Ltd ., Patna, shall remain in force uplo and Including the 7th November , 
1969 . 


[No. F . 17 ( 10 ) -BC /69 (ii ). 1 
S . O . 4644 , - Whereas a scheme for the amalgamation of the Bank of Behör Ltd ., 
with the State Bank of India has been sanctioned by the Central Government under 
the said scheme has come into operation ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 12 of section 
45 of the Banking Regulation Act 1949, the Central Government, on the recommen 
dation of the Reserve Bank , hereby directs that in its application to the conduct by 
the State Bank of India of the business acquired by it from the Bank of Behar 
Limited under section 45 of the said Act, during the period between the 8th Novem 
ber , 1969 and the 7th November , 1978 , both days inclusive : — 
( 1) section 33 of the State Bank of India Act, 1955 , shall apply as if : 
( a ) clause ( i) has been substituted by the following clause namely ( i ) tho 

Advancing and lending of money and the opening of Cash credits with 
or without security ; and 


(b ) in clause ( iv ) , the words " upon any of the securities specified in sub 

clauses ( a ) to ( d ) of clause (1) " have been omitted , and for the words 
" for or into any of the other investments above specified " the words 
" for and into any other investments " have been substituted , 


( 2 ) The State Bank shall be exempt from clauses ( a ) and ( c ) of sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 34 and clause ( a ) and sub - clause ( li ) of clause (b ) of sub -section ( 3 ) of 
that section , in so far as they preclude the State Bank from 
(i) continuing or realising the loans or advances made for a period longer 

than twelve months or made against the security of Immovable pro 

perty ; 
(11) continuing or realising the loans or advances made against any negotiable 

Instrument which does not carry on it the several responsiblities of at 
least two persons or Arms unconnected with each other in general 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV . 22, 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5007 

- - - - - - - - - 
partnership or does not nature within twelve months of the date of 
the loan or advance . 

[ No . F. 17 ( 10 ) - BC / 69 (iv ). ] 


New Delhi, the 7th November 1969 
S . O . 4645. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 63 read with 
section 58 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) , the Central Govern 
ment on the recommendation of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that 
the provisions of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 1l of the said Act, shall not apply 
to the Shri Gajanan Sahakari Pedhi Limited , Patan for a period of one year with 
effect from 1st March, 1969. 

[ No, F . 18 / 4 / 69- SB. ] 
वित्त मंत्रालय 

( किंग विभाग ) 
नई दिल्ली , 7 नवम्बर 1969 


एस० प्रो० 4645. - बैंकिंग विनियम अधिनियम , 1949 ( 1949 का दसवां ) की धारा 56 के 
साथ पठित धारा 5 3 धारा प्रदत्त, अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार भारतीय रिजर्व बैंक 
की सिफारिश पर एतदद्वारा यह घोषणा करती है कि उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 11 की उप -धारा 
( 1 ) के उपबन्ध श्री गजानन सहकारी पेठी लिमिटेड, पाटन पर 1 मार्च, 1969 से लेकर 1 वर्ष की 
अवधि के लिए लागू नहीं होंगे । 


[ सं० एफ० 18/ 4/ 69- एस० बी० ] 
S . O . 4646. - In pursuance of the provisions of clause ( d ) of sub- section ( 1 ) 
of Section 6 of the Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 1961 (47 of 1961) the 
Central Government, in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India , hereby 
renominates Shri V . II. Vora , Executive Director , Life Insurance Corporation , 
Bombay, as a Director of the Deposit Insurance Corporation for a period of two 
years with effect from the 1st January , 1970 . 

[ No. F . 10 / 11 / 69 -SB. ] 


एस० प्रो० 4646. - - जमा बीमा निगम अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का सैतालीसवां ) की 
धारा 6 की उप धारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) के उपबन्धों के अनुसरण में केन्द्रीय सरकार , भारतीय रिजर्व 
बैंक की सलाह से , एतद्वारा जीवन बीमा निगम बम्बई के कार्यकारी निदेशक श्री बी० एच० बोहरा 
को 1 जनवरी , 1970 से 2 वर्ष की अवधि के लिए फिर से जमा बीमा निगम का निदेशक नामजद करती 


[ सं० एफ० 10/ 11 / 69- एस० बी० ] 


man of the unto enabling, Bank of Indias conferred by 


New Delhi, the 11th November 1969 
S . O , 4647. --In exercise of the powers conferred by proviso to clause ( bi ) of 
section 2 of the Reserve Bank of India Act , 1934 ( 2 of 1934 ) , and of all other 
powers hereunto enabling, the Central Government hereby rescinds the notiAca 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Econo 

mic Affairs) , No . F . 18/ 12 / 67-SB, dated the 19th March, 1968, published as s . O . 
1128 at page 1677 of the Gazette of India- Part II - Section 3 - Sub-section (11 ) dated 
the 30th March , 1968 . 

[ No. F . 18 / 12 / 87 -SB.] 
K . YESURATNAM, Under Secy . 


5098 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV. 22 , 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [ PART II . 


नयी दिल्ली , 11 नवम्बर, 1969 
एस० पी० 4647: - - भारतीय रिजर्व बैंक अधिनियम , 1934 ( 1934 का दूसरा ) की धारा 2 
के खण्ड ( ख । ) के परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों तथा अब तक के अन्य सभी अधिकारों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा 30 मार्च, 1968 के भारत के राजपत्र के भाग II खण्ड 3 , 
उपखंड (ii ) के पष्ठ 1677 पर सांविधिक आदेश 1126 के रूप में प्रकाशित भारत सरकार , वित्त 
मंत्रालय ( अर्थविभाग ) की 19 मार्च, 1968 की अधिसूचना संख्या एफ० 18/ 12/ 67 -एस० बी० 
विखिण्डित की जाती है । 

[ सं० एफ० 18/ 12/ 67 सस बी० ] 

के . येसुरत्तम अनु सचिव । 


( Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 


INCOME- TAX 


New Delhi, the 5th November 1969 


S . O . 4648 , - It is hereby notified for general information that the institution 
mentioned below has been approved by the Council of Scientifc and Industrial 
Research , the " prescribed authority " , for the purposes of clause ( il ) of sub -section 
( 1 ) of Section 35 of the Income -tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1981) : 

INSTITUTION 
Indian Institute of Sclence , Bangalore, 

[ No . 150 / F". No . 11 / 7 / 89 -IT ( AII). J 

S . N . NAUTIAL , Dy . Secy 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 


STAMP 


New Delhi , the 22nd November 1869 


S . O . 4649. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act , 1899 ( 2 of 1899 ) , the Central Government 
hereby remits the duty with which the debentures of the face value of two 
hundred and fifty lakhs of rupees, to be issued by the Madras State Industrial 
Development Corporation , are chargeable under the said Act, 


[ No. 13 / 69 - F . No . 1 / 40 / 69-Cus. VII / Stamps. ] 

P . K . KAPOOR , Under Secy . 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 

INCOME- TAX 
New Delhi, the 6th November 1969 


S . 0 . 4650. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section ( 1 ) of Section 121 
of the Income- tax Act , 1961 (43 oť 1961 ) , the Central Board of Direct Taxes , hercby 
makes the following annendments to the Schedule appended to its notification 
No. 20 ( No. F . 55 / 1 / 62-IT ) , dated the 30th April 1963 , published as S . O . 1293. on: 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV . 22 , 1969 /AGRAHAYANA 1 , 1891. 5099 


pages 1454 1457 of the Gazette of India, Part II Section 3 , Sub -section (ii), dated 
the i1th May , 1963 as amended from time to time 
Against Sr . No. 5A , Bombay City - III, under Column 3 of the Schedule 

appended thereto 
(i) following shall be added : 
11. C - V Ward , 

12 . G - A Ward . 
This notification shall take effect from 6th November, 1969 . 

[No. 131/ F . No. 55 /403 /69 -IT (AI). ). 

L . N . GUPTA , Under Secy , 


MINISTRY OF FOREIGN TRADE AND SUPPLY 
(Office of the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

ORDER 


Bombay , the 30th April 1969 
3 . 0 . 4651. - A licence No. PVSS / 1553211 / C / XX / 23 / C / 8 / 23 -24 / SSI dated 8th 
October , 1966 of the yalue of Rs. 3826 ) - for import of Cellulose Nitrate Sheets was 
issued to M / s , Raja Optical Frames Mig . Works , Krishna Nagar, Satna , Madhya 
Pradesh . 

2 . Thereafter, a show cause notice No. 1 / 412 / 67 / Enf / 6454 dated 13th 
December , 1987 was issued asking them to show cause within fifteen days as to 
why the said licence issued in their favour should not be cancelled in terms of 
Clause 9 sub - clause ( cc ) of the Imports ( Control) Order , 1965 dated 7th December, 
1955 as the unit was reported closed and hence the licence in question was not 
Likely to serve the purpose for which the same had been issued . 

3 . The aforesaid show cause dated 13th December , 1967 despatched to the 
arm was returned undelivered from the Postal Authorities . 

4 . Having regard to what has been stated in the preceeding paragraph , the 
undersigned 18 satisfied that the licence in question should be cancelled or other 
wise rendered ineffective. Therefore , the undersigned , in exercise of the powers 
vested in him under Clause 9 sub - clause ( cc ) of the Imports ( Control) Order, 
1955 hereby cancels the licence No. P / SS / 1553211 / C / XX / 23 / C / 8 / 23- 24 / S $ I dated 
8th October, 1966 for Rs. 3826 / - issued in favour of M / s . Raja Optical Frames 
Manufacturing Works, Krishna Nagar, Satna , Madhya Pradesh . 


[No, 1 / 412 /67 / Enf.] 

I. R . KAKAR , 
Dy. Chieľ Controller of Import & Exports , 
for Jt. Chlef Controller of Imports & Exports , 


( Office of the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

(Central Licensing Area ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 2nd August 1969 
8 . 0 . 4652 . - Exchange control copy of licence No . P / SS / 1610257 / C / XX25 / C -DI 
25- 26 dated 16th March 1968 for Rs. 30 , 750 for the iniport of Drugs and Medicines 
issued in favour of M / s . Pharma Chemico Laboratories , Ramkuti, Circular Road , 
Solan ( H . P . ) , was cancėl éd vide order No . 3 /Priority - II - H . P . AM .68 / AU HRH ) 
CLA / 4398 to 4448 dated 31st March , 1969, as the said firm had reported that the 
same had been lost /misplaced by them . 

The said firm have now reported to this office that the exchange control copy 
of the said licence has since been traced out . In view of this position , the order 


5100 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOV . 22, 1969 /AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [Part II 


E 


No . 3 / Priority - II /HP / AM .68 / AU .HRH / CLA / 4398 to 4448 dated 31st March , 1969 
l eferred to in para . I above is hereby rescinded . 

[No, F3/Priority - II / HP /AM .68 / AU .HRH / 799. ] 


8 . 0 . 4653. - M / s . Vinay Plastic and Glass Industries , Railway Road , Bahadur 
garh (Har ) were granted import licence No. P / S / 1611292 / C /XX / 27 / D /25 / 26 dated 
23rd May 1968 for Rs. 5 ,000 for import of Polythylene Moulding Powder ( High 
Density ) , Cellulose Acetate Butyrate , Acry ic Plastic Moulding Powder , Polyster 
film , Cellulose Nitrate Sheets , Rods and Tubes and P / S / 1612303 / C /XX / 29 / D / 25 / 26 
dated 6th November 1968 for Rs. 5000 for import of A . P .Moulding Powder, Polyster 
Alm and C . N . sheets Rods and Tubes . They have applied for issued of duplicate 
copies of customs purposes and exchange control copies thereof on the ground that 
the original licences have been ost /misplaced without having been utilised at all . 

2 . The applicant has filed an affidavit in support of their contention as required 
under para 302 of I. T . C , Hand Book of Rules and Procedue 1969. I am therefore 
satisfied , that the original Customs Purposes and Exchange Contral copies of the 
licence have been lost /misplaced . 

3 . In exercise of the powers conferred on me under section 9 (CC ) import 
( Control) order, 1955 , dated 7th December, 1955 , I order the cancellation of licence 
No, P / S / 1611292 / C /XX / 27 / D 125 / 26 dated 23rd May 1968 and P / S / 1612303 / C / XX / 
29 / D / 25 / 28 dated 6th November 1968, 

4 . The applicant is now being issued dup icate copies of Customs purposes and 
exchange control copies of these licences in accordance with the provision of para 
302 ( 4 ) of I. T . C . Hand Book of Rules and Procedure 1969 . 

( No. F. V - 20 /HAR /AM .68 / AU .HRH /CLA /800 .] 


S . O . 4654 , - M / s . Sunshine General Industries , Railway Road , Bahadurgarh , 
Distt. Rohtak ( Har ) were granted an import licence No. P /SS / 1610926 / C / XX / 
25 / 26 dated 17th April 1968 for Rs. 10 ,000 for the import of Hard Glass Tubings 
( 10 per cent of the face value ) Inter changable Glass Joints ( 10 per cent of face 
value ) , Platinum wire ( 10 per cent of face value ) Electrical Heated Aasks ( 10 per 
cent of face value ) and Silica wares . They have applied for issue of duplicates 
of Customs Purpose and Exchange control purpose copies thercof on the ground 
that the original copies have been lost /misplaced , 

2. The applicant has Aled an affidavit in support of their contention , as required 
under para 302 of I. T . C . Hand Book of Rules and Procedure 1969. I am therefore 
satisfied that original Custom purpose and Exchange Control copies of the licence 
in question have been lost /misplaced . 

3 . In exercise of the powers conferred on me, under section 9 (CC ) Import 
( Control) Order , 1955 , dated 10th October, 1955 , I order the cancellation of 
the Custom purposes and Exchange Control copies of licence No. P /SS / 1610928 / C / 
XX /25 / CD / 25 / 26 , dated 17th April , 1968 . 

4 . The applicant is now being issued duplicates of Customs purpose as well 
as exchange control purpose copies of the licence, in accordance with para 302 
of I. T . C . Hand Book of Rules and Procedure 1989. 

[No. F .23/ Priority - II /AM .68 / HAR / AU .HRH /CLA / 801. ] 

New Delhi, the 3rd October 1989 
8 . 0 . 4655 . - M / 8 . United Steel and Allled Industries, B -37, Modern Industrial 
Estate , Bahadurgarh (Haryana ) were granted an import licence No . P / SS / 1610299 / 
C / XX / 25 / CD / 25 / 26 dated 22nd March , 1968 for Rs. 4 , 000 for the import of P . 
& M . Toolg other than Banned shown against S . No. 21 -11 in part- A of the Red 
Book . They have applied for issue of duplicate copy of the Custom Purposes copy 
thereof , on the ground that the original has been lost / misplaced without having 
been registered with any custom authority and utilised at all. 

2 . The applicant have Aled an affidavit in support of the above statemrient as 
required under para . 302 of I. T . C . Hand Book 1969 . I am satisfied that the custom 
purpose copy of the licence has been lost /misplaced . 

3 . In exercise of the powers conferred on me under section 9 (CC ) Import 
Control Order , 1955 , dated 7th December , 1955 , I order the cancellation of the 
Customs purpose copy of import licence No . P / S / 1610299 dated 22nd March , 1968 . 


SBC . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV. 22 , 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 SIOI 


4 . The applicant is now being issued a duplicate copy of customs purpose copy 
of this licence , in accordance with the provisions of pard , 302 ( 4 ) of I . T . C . Hand 
Book of Rules and Procedure , 1969. 

[No. U - 2 / HAR / AM ,68 / AU - HRH / CLA . ) 


New Delhi, the 13th October 1989 
S . O . 4656 , - - M / s . Panch - Shilla Industries, Opposite Government College, Gur 
gaon were granted licence No . P / SS / 1809215 / C / XX / 25 / CD / 23 - 24 dated 9th Jan 
uary , 1988, for Rs. 17 , 082 for the import of Tungston Metal Discs , Resistance Wires , 
Enamelled Copper Wire SWG No. 44,45 and 46 onwards. They have applied for 
19gue of duplicate of Exchange Control copy thereof on the ground that original 
copy has been lost /misplaced . The licence has been registered with New Delhi 
Custom house and has been utilised to the extent of Rs. 5 , 362 . 

2 . The applicant has flled an affidavit in support of their statement as requir 
ed under para . 302 of I. T . C . Hand Book of Rules and Procedure , 1969 . I am satis 
fled that the original Exchange Control copy has been lost /misplaced . 

3 . In exercise of the powers conferred on me under section 0 ( cc ) Import Con 
trol Order , 1955 dated 7th December , 1955 , I order the cancellation of Exchange 
Control copy of import licence No . P / SS / 1609215 / C / XX / 25 / CD / 23 - 24 dated oth 
January , 1968 . 

4 . The applicant is now being issued a duplicate of the Exchange Control copy 
of this licence in accordance in accordance with the provisions or para. 302 ( 4 ) of 
I. T . C . Hand Book of Rules and Procedure , 1969. 

No. F . PN . 84 / 66 / P - 105 / Har. / AM -67 / AU . HRH / CLA .] 


CANCELLATION ORDER 


New Delhi, the 11th September 1969 


S . O . 4657, - - M / s . Jon s Footwear Co ., 14 Kachery Road , Boilueganj, Agra were 
granted import licence No. P / AU / 1211966 / C dated 28th March 1968 for Rs. 6609. 
They have applied for duplicate Customs Purposes Copy of the licence on the 
ground that the original Customs Purposes Copy thereof has been misplaced without 
having been registered with any customs authorities and without having been 
utilised at all. 


In support of this contention the applicant has Aled an affidavit. I am satisfied 
that the original Customs Purposes Copy of the licence No. P /AU / 1211966 / C dated 
28th March 1968 has been misplaced and direct that duplicate Customs Purposes 
Copy of the licence should be issued to the applicant. The original Customs 
Purposes Copy of the licence is Cancelled . 


[No. Leather -11/ JM .67 /SC . III /CLA . ] 

RAM MURTI SHARMA, 
Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 


ORDER 


Panjim Goa , the 7th October 1969 
S . O . 4658. - M / s. Venktesh Shengi Phonsule , Ferces Road , Santa Cruz - Goa 
were granted import licence No. P / E /0139842 C / XX / 28 / G / 27 - 28 , dated 19th July , 
1968 on G . A . for the Import of MILK POWERED AND CONDENSED / INCLUDING 
MILK FOOD FOR INFANTS / valued at Rs. 1 , 000 under S . No , 9 - 10 - IV . They have 
requested for issue of duplicate Exchange Control copy of the licence on the ground 
that the original Exchange Control Copy of the licence has been lost. It has further 
been reported by the party that the licence lost was partly utilised for Rs. 351 
and leaving a balance of Rs. 649. The licence was registered with Marmagoa 
Customs, 


5102 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOV. 22 , 1969/ AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 (Part II. -- 


In support of their contention , the applicant have filed an affidavit on a stamped 
paper duly attested by Taluka Magistrate , First Class , Panjim , Goa. The under 
signed is satisfied that the original Exchange Contral Copy of the licence No. P / E / 
0139842 / C / XX / 28 / G / 27- 28 , dated 19th July , 1968 has been lost and direct that 
duplicate Exchange Control Copy of the said licence should be issued to them . 

In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Section 9 (cc ) of Import 
Control Order , 1955 dated 7th December 1955 , I order the cancellation of Exchange 
Control Copy of the licence No. P / E /0139842 / C / XX / 28 / G / 27 - 28 , dated 19th July 
1968 . 

The applicant is now being issued a duplicate copy of Exchange Purpose Copy 
of this licence in accordance with the provisions contained in para 302 ( 1 ) of ITC 
Hand Book of Rules and Procedure, 1969 . 

(No. EI/ 9 - 10 - IV / 2 / AM69 .] 

R . D . PAWAR , 
Dy. Chlef Controller of Imports and Exports . 


( Office of the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

ORDER 

Calcutta , the 10th November 1969 
S . O . 4659, - A licence No. P / S / 1631628 / C / XX / 30 / C / 27 -28 / AU - V dated 19th 
March , 1969 of the value of Rs. 900 for Import of sofety Lamp excluding Electric 
Safety Torches was issued to M / s . Mine Safety Appliances Ltd ., 240A , Acharya 
Jagadish Bose Road , Calcutta - 20 . 

Thereafter , a show cause notice No . 186 / 69 / E & L dated 8th October , 1969, was 
issued asking them to show cause within 15 days as to why the said licence in 
their l avour should not be cancelled on the ground that the goods are indigenous 
ly available in terms of Clause 9 , Şub -Clause ( a ) . 

3 . No response to the aforesaid show cause notice had been received from 
M / s . Mine Safety Appliances Ltd ., 240A , Acharya Jagadish Bose Road , Calcutta 
20 . 


4 . Having regard to what has been stated in the preceeding paragraph , the 
undersigned is satisfied that the licence in question should be cancelled or other 
wise rendered ineffective. Therefore , the undersignd , in exercise of the powers 
vested in him under Clause 9 sub - clause ( a ) of the Imports ( Control) Order , 1955 
hereby cancel the licence No. P / S / 1631628 / C / XX / 30 / C / 27-28 / AU - V dated 19th 
March , 1969 , for Rs. 900 issued in favour of M / s. Mine Safety Appliances Ltd ., 
240A , Acharya Jagadish Bose Road , Calcutta -20 . 

[ No. 186 / 69 / E & L .] 

M . S . PURI, 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports . 


(Once of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 13th November 1969 
S . O . 4660. — M / s . Kwality Restaurant, Bombay were granted an import licence 
No . PA / 1288396 / C / XX / 26 / C / H / 2526 dated 15th January , 1968, for Rs. 500 
(Rupees five hundred only ) for the import of Chinese Declicacies viz ., Gourmet 
Powder, Dried Mushrooms and Shark s Fin . They have applied for the issue of 
a duplicate Customs purpose copy of the said licence on the ground that the origi 
nal Customs purposes copy has been lost /misplaced . It is further stated that the 
licence ( Customs purpose copy ) was not registered with any Customs Authority 
at the Ports , and was not utilized at all. 

2 . In support of this contention the applicant has filled an affidavit. I am 
accordingly satisfled that the original customs purpose copy of the said licence 
has been lost /misplaced . Therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred under 
sub - clause 0 (CC ) of Imports (Control) Order 1955 , dated 7th December , 1955 , as 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV . 22, 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5103 


amended , the said . Customs purpose copy of the said licence No . P / A / 1288396 / C / 
XX / 26 / C / H / 25 - 26 dated 15th January , 1968, issued to M / s . Kwality Restaurant, 
Bombay is being cancelled . 

A duplicate Customs purpose copy of the said licence is being issued to the 
licensee separately . 

INo. 14 / 1012/ 1 / AM- 68 / ILS / 2494 .] 

G . D . BAHL , 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD , AGRICULTURE , COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND 

COOPERATION 


(Department of Agriculture ) 


New Delhi, the 6th Noveinber 1969 


S . O . 4661. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of the Agricultural 
Produce (Grading and Marketing) Act, 1937 ( 1 of 1937 ), the Central Government 
hereby declares that the provisions of the said Act shall apply to the following 
article , namely : - 

Soyabean 

[ No. F . 13 . 26 / 69 - LA. ] 
B. R. KAPOOR, Under Secy , 


खान, कृषि , साम दायिक विकास था सहकारिता मंत्रालय 

( कृषि विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 6 नवम्बर 1969 
का० प्रा० 4661 . - - कृषि उत्पाद ( श्रेणीकरण और चिह्न ) अधिनियम , 1937 
( 1937 का 1 ) की धारा 6 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा 
घोषणा करती है कि उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध निम्नलिखित वस्तु को लागू होंगे, अर्थात : -- 

सोयाबीन 

[सं० एफ० 13 -26/ 69 -एल० ए० ] 

बी० पार० कपूर, अवर सचिव । 


पोत परिषहम तथा परिवहन मंत्रालय 

( परिवहान पक्ष ) 

नयी दिल्ली , 8 सितम्बर 1969 
का० प्रा० 3767 :-- - राष्ट्रीय पोत परिवहन बोर्ड नियम , 1960 के नियम 3 के 
साथ पठित वाणिज्य पोत परिवहन अधिनियम , 1958 ( 1958 का 44 ) की धारा 4 द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एततद्वारा राष्ट्रीय पोत परिवहन बोर्ड स्थापित करती है 


5104 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOV . 22 , 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [ PART II- 


जो निम्नलिखित सदस्यों से मिलकर बनेगा और श्री एम०बी० कृष्णप्पा को उक्त बोर्ड का अध्यक्ष 
नामनिर्देशित करती है, 
अर्थातः 
1 . श्री एम० वी० कृष्णप्पा 
2. श्री सी० सी० देसाई 
3. श्री हरि कृष्ण 

संसद द्वारा निर्वाचित 
1. श्री कामेश्वर सिंह 
5. श्री मुल्का गोविन्द रेड्डी 
6 . श्री बाई० आदिनारायण रेड्डी 
7 . श्री के० बी० लाल 
8. श्री एस० के० दत्त 
9 . श्री सी० पी० श्रीवास्तव 
10. श्री पी० एन० जैन 

केन्द्रीय सरकार के प्रतिनिधि 
11. रियर एडमिरल एन० कृष्णन 
12. श्री के०सी० मदप्पा 
13. श्री ए . रामास्वामी महालियर 
14. श्रीमती सुमति मोरारजी 

पोतस्वामियों के प्रतिनिधि 
15. श्री एन० एच० थुनजीमोई 
16. श्री जे० डी० रेगरी 
17. श्री असित मित्र 

नाविकों के प्रतिनिधि 
18. श्री के० के० खादिलकर 
19. श्री डी० एम० पारिख 
20. श्री एल० एन० बिरला 

अन्य हितों के 
21. श्री एच० एम० निवेदी 


2. केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा श्री एन० के० गोपालन नायर, ( पोत परिवहन ) उप महानिदेशक 
को बोर्ड का सचिव नियुक्त करती है । 

[ सं० फा० 37 - एम०डी० ( 6 ) / 69] 


जसवंत सिंह, प्रवर सचिव । 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT, INTERNAL TRADE AND 

COMPANY AFFAIRS 


(Dopartment of Industrial Development) 

New Delhi, the 7th November 1969 
8 . O . 4662. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 72 of the Indian 
Patents and Designs Act , 1911 ( 2 of 1911 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints 
the Deputy Chief Engineer, Technical Services, Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited , 
Heavy Electricals Equipment Plant, Hardwar, U . P . as an authority for the purpose 
of the said section , and makes the following further amendment in the notification 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOV. 22, 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5105 


of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and Industry 
No . S. R. O . 681, dated the 23rd March, 1955, namely: 
In the said notification , after Item 35 and the entry relating thereto , the 

following item and entry shall be added , namely : 
( 36 ) " Deputy " Chief Engineer, Technical Services, Bharat Heavy 

Electrical Limited, Heavy Electrical Equipment Plant, Hardwar 
| UP ” . 

[ No. 33 (42 )- PP & D / 69. ] 
प्रौद्योगिक विकास , प्रान्तरिक व्यापार तथा समवाय- कार्य मंत्रालय 


( प्रौद्योगिक विकास विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 7 नवम्बर 19690 
एस० प्रो० 4662 . ~ - भारतीय पेटेन्ट तथा डिजाइन अधिनियम , 1911 ( 1911 का 2 ) 
की धारा 72 के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा उप -मुख्य इन्जीनियर 
टेक्निकल सविसेज , भारत हैवी इलेक्ट्रीकल्स लि०, हैवी इलेक्ट्रीकल्स इक्विपमेंट प्लान्ट हरिद्वार, उ० प्र० 
को उपरिलिखित धारा के प्रयोजन का प्राधिकारी नियुक्त करती है तथा भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व वाणिज्य 
तथा उद्योग मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना सं० एस० पार० प्रो० 681, दिनांक 23 मार्च, 195 5, में निम्न 
लिखित और आगे संशोधन करती है, अर्थात : - - 

उपरिलिखित अधिसूचना में मद 35 तथा उस से सम्बन्धित प्रविष्टि के पश्चात् निम्नलिखित 

मद और प्रविष्टि को जोड़ा जाएगा , अर्थात : - - 
( 36 ) उप -मुख्य इन्जीनियर , 

टेक्निकल सविसेज , भारत हैवी इलेक्ट्रिकल्स लि० , 
हैवी इलेक्ट्रिकल इक्विपमेंट प्लान्ट , 
हरिद्वार, उ० प्र० । 

[ संख्या 33 ( 42 ) -पी० पी० एण्ड डी० / 69 ) ] 
s. o . 4863. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 72 of the Indian 
Patents and Designs Act , 1911 ( 2 of 1911 ) , the Central Government hereby 
appoints the Director of Industries and Supplies, Rajasthan , Jaipur, as an authority 
for the said section , and makes the following further amendment in the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and Industry 
No. S . R. O . 681 , dated the 23rd March, 1955 , namely : ---- 
In the said notification , after item ( 37 ) and the entry relating thereto , the 

following item and entry shall be inserted, namely : 
" ( 38 ) The Director of Industries and Supplies, Jaipur , Rajasthan " . 

[ No. F . 33 (43 ) -PP & D / 89. 1 
एस० प्रो० 4663 . -- भारतीय पेटेन्ट तथा डिजाइन अधिनियम , 1911 ( 1911 का 
2 ) की धारा 72 के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा 
निदेशक उद्योग तथा संभरण , राजस्थान , जयपुर को उपरिलिखित धारा का प्राधिकारी नियुक्त करती है 
तथा भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व वाणिज्य तथा उद्योग मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना संख्या एस० 
पार० प्रो० 681, दिनांक 23 मार्च, 1955, में निम्नलिखित और आगे संशोधन करती 
है , अर्थात् : - - 

उपरिलिखित अधिसूचना में , मद ( 37) तथा उससे संबंधित प्रविष्टि के पश्चात 

निम्नलिखित मद और प्रविष्टि निविष्ट की जाएगी , अर्थात् : - - 
" ( 38 ) निदेशक , उद्योग तथा संभरण , जयपुर, राजस्थान । " 

[सं० 33( 43 )-पी०पी०एण्ड डी० / 69] 


23rd Marchhe late Mirther amendapur, as anemt u hereby 


5105 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV . 22 , 1969/ AGRAHAYANA 1 , 1891 [PART II 


$ . 0 . 4664. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 72 of the Indian 
Patents and Designs Act, 1911 ( 2 of 1911 ) , the Central Government hereby 
appoints the Joint. General Manager , Heavy Machine Building Plant, Heavy 
Engineering Corporation Limited , Dhurwa, Ranchi, Bihar, as an authority for the 
purpose of the said Section , and makes the following further amendment in the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry No. S . R . O . 681, dated the 23rd March, 1955 , namely : 


In the said notification , after item ( 36 ) and the entry relating thereto , the 

following item and entry shall be added , namely : 
" (37) The Joint General Manager, Heavy Machine Building Plant, Heavy 
____ Engineering Corporation Limited , Dhurwa, Ranchi, Bihar " . 

[ No . F . 33 ( 44 ) - PP & D / 69 . ] 
HARGUNDAS , Under Secy , 


एस० प्रो० 466 4. - -- भारतीय पेटेन्ट तया डिजाइन अधिनियम , 1911 ( 1911 का 2 ) 
की धारा 72 के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा संयुक्त महाप्रबन्धक , 
हैवी मशीन बिल्डिंग प्लान्ट , हैपी इन्जीनियरिंग कारपोरेशन लि० , धुर्वा, रांची, बिहार को उपरिलिखित 
धारा के प्रयोजन का प्राधिकारी नियुक्त करती है तथा भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व वाणिज्य तथा उद्योग 
मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना संख्या एस० पार० ओ० 681, दिनांक 23 मार्च, 1955 में निम्नलिखित और 
आगे संशोधन करती है , अर्थात् : 
उपरिलिखित अधिसूचना में मद सं0 ( 36) तथा उससे सम्बन्धित प्रविष्टि के पश्चात् निम्न 

लिखित मद और प्रविष्टि को जोड़ा जाएगा , अर्थात् : 
“ ( 37 ) संयुक्त महाप्रबन्धक, 

हैवी मशीन बिल्डिंग प्लान्ट , हैवी इन्जीनियरिंग कारपोरेशन लि० धुर्वा, रांची, 
बिहार । " 

[ सं० एफ० 33 ( 44) -पी० पी० एण्ड डी० / 69 ] 

हरगुनदास , अवर सचिव । 


( Department of Internal Trade.) 

New Delhi, the 12th November 1989 
8 . 0 . 4665. --In exercise of the powers conferred by. section 27 of the Forward 
Contracts ( Regulation) Act, 1952 . ( 74 of 1952 ) , and of all other powers enabling it 
in that bebalf, the Central Government hereby rescinds the notification of the 
Government of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. s . o . 875, 
dated the 25th Aprill , 1968 as amended by notifcation No. S . O . 1269, dated the 1st 
June , 1959 . 

[ No . 10( 9 ) - IT / 89. ] 

____ P. SITARAMAN, Dy. Secy. 
( प्रन्सदेशोय व्यापार विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 12 नवम्बर 1969 
का० प्रा० 4665. - - अग्रिम संविदा ( विनियमन ) अधिनियम , 19 52 ( 19) 52 का 74 ) 
की धारा 27 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों और उसे इस निमित्त समर्थ बनाने वाली सभी अन्य शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व वाणिज्य और उद्योग मंत्रालय की 
अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 1269 , तारीख 1 जून , 19 59 द्वारा यथा संशोधित अधिसूचना सं० 
का० प्रा675, तारीख 25 अप्रैल , 19 59 को पतवडारा विखण्डित करती है । 

[सं० 10 (9 ) आई० टी०/ 69 ] 

प० सीतारामन, उप सचिव । 


Sec . 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV , 22 , 1969 / AGRAHAYANA I, 1891 5107 


(Department of Industrial Development) 


ORDER 
New Delhi, the 6th November 1969 


S . O . 4666 / IDRA / 6 / 4 /69. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of 
the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 (05 of 1951 ) , read with 
rules 2 , 4 and 5 . of the Development Council (Procedural) Rules, 1952 , the Central 
Government hereby appoints , for a period of two years with eflect from the date 
of this Order , the following persons to be members of the Development Council 
for the scheduled Industries engaged in the manufacture or production of Inorganic 
Chemicals , in place of members appointed under the Governinent of India , late 
Ministry of Industry Order No. S . O . IDRA / 6 / 2 / 66 dated the 12th December , 
1966 , as amended from time to time, whose term of office has expired by efflux 
of time or otherwise : 

Development Council for Inorganic Chemical Industries 
1. Shri Charat Ram , M / s. Delhi Cloth and General Mills Limited , Bara 

Hindu Rao, Delhi- Chairman . 
2. Shri D . S . Seth , Director - in -charge, Tata Chemicals Limited , Bombay . 
3 . Dr. D . N . Daruwala , Divisional Manager , M / s. Largen and Toubro 

Limited , Ballard Estate , Bombay. 
4 . Dr. B . V . Bhoota , M / s. Dorr Oliver India Limited , 15 , Queen s Road , 

Estate, Bombay - l . 
5 . Shri D . R . Morarji, M / s. Dharamst Morarji Chemical Corporation 

Limited , Bombay - 1 . 
6 . Shri P . C . Jain , M / s. Dhrangadhra Chemical Limited , Bombay . 
7 . Dr. S . K . Mukherjee , Fertilizer Corporation of India , Bombay . 
8 . Shri S . S . Kanoria , Kanoria Chemicals Limited , Calcutta - 1 . 
9 . Shri P . K . Sen , C / o . M / s. A . V . B . Limited , Durgapur -6 (West Bengal) . 
10 . Shri R . V . Ramani, Managing Director , Mettur Chemical and Industrial 

Corporation Limited, Mettur Dam , R . S . (Tamil Nadu ). 
11. Shri J. Simon , M / s. E . I. D . Parry Limited , Madras . 
12 . Shri M . M . Gurunath , Salt Consultant, 3, Lakshmana Chetty Street. 

Madras. 
13 . Shri S . K . Vakil, M / s. Saurashtra Chemicals Limited , Porbandar (Gujarat) . 
14 . Shri B . R . Kamdar , M / s. Digvijay Salt Works, Jamnagar . 
15 . Shri T . V . Srivastava , Managing Director , Gujarat State Fertilizer Corpo 

ration , Baroda . 
16 . Shri. B . B . Ramiah , Joint Managing Director ( Tech .) , Andhra Sugar 

Limited , Tanuku ( A . P . ) . 
17 . Dr. K . S . Chari, Director, Technical Institute , Fertilizer Association or 

India , 85 , Sundar Nagar , New Delhi. 
18. Shri Paul Pothan , Managing Director , Indian Farmer Fertilizer Corpora 

tion Limited , New Delhi. 
19 . Shri M . K . K . Nair, Managing Director , M / s . Fertilizer and Chesnical 

Travancore Limited , Alwaye , 
20. Shri D . G . Rao , Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited; P & D Division , 

Sindri. . 
21. Shri J. D . Adhya, Managing Director , . Hindustan Zinc Limited , Zinc 

Smelter , Debari (Udaipur ) . 
22 . Shri B . Ramachandran , Director , State Trading Corporation of India , 

New Delhi, 
23. Dr. K . N . Synghal, Soil and Fertilizer Specialist, Ministry of F . A . C . D . 

and C .; (Department of Agriculture) , New Delhi, 
24.: Shri M . N . Kale , Deputy Secretary, Ministry of P . & C . and M . M . (Deptt. 

of Chemicals ) , New Delhi. 
25 . Shri K . L . Gambhir , Salt Commissioner , (Ministry of Industrial Develop 

ment, Internal Trade and Company Affairs ) , Jaipur . 


SIOS THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV . 22 , 1969/ AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 (Part II — 


26 . Shri K . Venkataraman , Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Industrial Develop 

ment, Internal Trade and Company Affairs , (Department of Industrial 

Development) , New Delhi. 
27 . Shri P . K . Seshan , Industrial Adviser (Chemicals ) , D . G . T . D ., New Delhi, 
2 , Shri P . K . Seshan , Industrial Adviser (Chemicals ) , D .G . T . D ., New Delhi, is 
hereby appointed to carry on the functions of the Secretary to the said Develop 
Inent Council. 

[ No. 13 ( 15 ) / 88 - L . C . ) 
R . Ç . SETHI, Under Secy . 


(Department of Industrial Development) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 11th November 1969 
S . O . 4667 / IDRA / 18G / 69, - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 18G 
and section 25 of the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 ( 65 of 
1951) , and of all other powers enabling it in this behalf , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following Order further to amend the Cement Control Order , 
1987, namely : 

1. ( 1) This Order may be called the Cement Control ( Third Amendment) 
Order , 1969. 

( 2 ) It shall come into force on the date of its publication in the Oficial 
Gazette . 


2 . In the Schedule to the Cement Control Order , 1967, after Item No. 1 and the 
entry relating thereto , the following shall be inserted , namely : 
" IA . Assam Cements , Cherrapunji 123. 50 "! 

(No. 1 -33 / 88 -Cem . ] 
G . RAMANATHAN , Under Secy . 


(Dopartment of Industrial Development) 

(Indian Standards Institution ) 
New Delhi, the 3rd November 1969 


9 . O . 4668 . -- In pursuance of sub -regulation (4 ) of Regulation 14 of the Indian Standards 
Institution (Certification Marks ), Regulations, 1955 as amended from time to time the Indian 
Standar .is Institu - ion , hereby , notifles that tlie licence , particulars of which are given below , 
has been cancelled with effect from 1 November , 1969 : 


Licence No, and 

Date 


Name & A 1.dress of the 

Licensee 


Article /Process Relevant Indian 
Covered by the Licence Standard 


CM /L - 464 24 - 10 - 1962 M /s. Geo Industries & BHC Water Disper- IS : 562 — 1958 

Insecticides (India ) Pvt. sible Powder Con 
Ltd . , Field No. 82 / 3 ( a ) centrates , 
Sarhankadu , kaladipet , 
Madras- 19 . 


[No. CMD/55 : 464.1 


Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV. 22 , 1969 /AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5109 


New Delhi, the 15th November 1969 
S . O . 4669. -- In pursuance of sub -regulation (4 ) of regulation 14 of the Indian Standard 
Institutions Certification marky Regulations 1955, as amended from time to time, the Indian 
Standards Institution hereby norifics that licenc: No. CM / L - 2006 , p rticulars of which are 
given below , has been cancelled with effect from 25th Sept. 1969 at the request of the firm : 


Licence No. & 

Date 


Name and address of 

the licensee 


Article Process cove - 

red by the licence 
cancelled 


Relevant Indian 

Standard 


CM /L - 2006 


30 -6 - 1969 M /s . Shriram Vinyl & 

Chemical Industries , 
Shriramnagar , Kota - 4 
(Rajasthan ). 


Rigid Plain P . V . C . IS : 2509 - 1963 Spe 

Conduits for Elcc- cification for Rigid 
trical Installations Non -Metallic Cond 
Ourer Dia 25 mm uits for Electrical 

Installations . 


[No. MDD /55 :2006 .] 

( Dr ). A . K . GUPTA , 
Deputy Director General (Martks ) 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 4th November 1969 
S . O . 4670 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinema 
tograph Act, 1962 and sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule 2 of rule 9 of 
Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 1958 , the Central Government hereby ro 
appoints Smat . R . Shamanta as a member of the Advisory Panel of the Central 
Board of Film Censors at Madras with immediate effect upto 31st December , 1969. 

[ No. 11 / 10 / 09 - -F (C ).] 


New Delhi, the 5th November 1969 
8 . 0 , 4671 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinemato 
graph Act, 1952 and sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub -rule 2 of rule 9 of the 
Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri Bhogilal Chimanlal Shah after consultation with Central Board of Film 
Censors as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Bombay with 
immediate effect, upto 31st December , 1969, 

(No. 11 / 12 /69- F ( C ) . ] 
VIRENDRA D . VYAS, Dy. Secy , 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 7th November 1969 
$ . 0 , 4672 . - In pursuance of the directions issued under the provisions of each 
of the enactments specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto , the Central 
Government after considering the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board , 
Bombay hereby approves the Alms specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule 
annexed hereto in Gujarati to be of the description specified against each in 
column 6 of the said Second Schedule . 

THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Sub - Section 4 of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph 

Act, 1952 ( Central Act XXXVII of 1952 ) , 
( 2 ) Sub - Section ( 3 ) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas 

(Regulation ) Act , 1953 ( Bombay Act XVII of 1953 ) . 
(3 ) Sub -Section (4 ) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Saurashtra Cinemas 

(Regulation ) Act , 1953 (Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953) . 


5110 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV . 22 , 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 (Part 11 


THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


Title of the film 


TI 


Length 
35mm 


Name of the 
Applicant 


Name of the Whether a Scientific 
Producer film or a film in 

Tended for educa . 
tional purposes or 8 
film dealing with 
news and current 
events or a docu 
mentary film. 


I The Giver and The 609 -60M 


Taker . 


Sh . Prakash Arora , Director of Documentary film 
Arora Films, Informution , ( for release in 
Arora Hospital , Govi , of Guja - Gujrat Circuit 
Khar , Bombay - rat Ahmedabad only ) . 
52. 
Director of Information , Govern - Film delaink with 
ment of Gujarat , Sachivalaya , news and current 
Ahmedabad . 

events ( for release 
in Gujarat circuit 
only ). 


2 Mahitichitra Number 249 - 94M 

II3 . 


[ No. F. 24 / 1 / 69 -FP. App- 1400. ] 


स चना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय 


श्रादेश 


नई दिल्ली , 7 नवम्बर, 1969 


एस० प्रो० . 467.2 : - इसके साथ लगी प्रथम , अनुसूची में निर्धारित प्रत्येक 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध के अन्तर्गत जारी किये गये निदेशों के अनुसार , केन्द्रीय सरकार, फिल्म सलाहकार 
बोर्ड, बम्बई की सिफारिशों पर विचार करने के बाद , एतद्द्वारा , इसके साथ लगी द्वितीय अनुसूची के 
कालम 2 में दी गई फिल्मों को उनके गजराती भाषा के रूपान्तर सहित , जिनका विवरण प्रत्येक के सामने 
उक्त द्वितीय अनुसूची के कालम 6 में दिया हुआ है, स्वीकृत करती है : 


प्रथम अनुसूची 
( 1 ) चलचिव अधिनियम, 1952 ( 1952 का 37 वा केन्द्रीय अधिनियम ) की धारा 12 की 

की उप- धारा ( 4 ) तथा धारा 16 । 
( 2 ) बम्बई सिनेमा ( विनियम ) अधिनियम 1. 95 3 (.1953.का_17 बा. अम्बई अधिनियम ) 

की धारा 5 की उप-धारा ( 3 ) तथा धारा 9 । 
( 3 ) सौराष्ट्र सिनेमा ( विनियम ) अधिनियम 1953 ( 195 3 का 17 वा ) सौराष्ट्र 

मधिनियम की धारा 5 की उप -धारा ( 4 ) तथा धारा । 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) 1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV . 22, 1969/ AGRAHAYANA 1 , 1891 SITI 


द्वितीय अनुसूची 
क्रम संख्या फिल्म का फिल्म को आवेदक का नाम निर्माता का नाम 

नाम . लम्बाई 

35 मि०मी० 


क्या वैज्ञानिक फिल्म है या 
शिक्षा सम्बन्धी फिल्म है 
या समाचार और 
सामयिक घटनाओं की 
फिल्म है या डाकुमेन्ट्री 
फिल्म है । 


दि गियर एण्ड 609 . 60 श्री श्रोम प्रकाश सूचना निदेशक , डाकुमेन्ट्री फिल्म 1( गुज . 
दि टेकर मीटर अरोड़ा, अरोड़ा गजरात सरकार , रात सर्किट में रिलीज 

फिल्मज , अरोड़ा अहमदाबाद करने के लिये 
हस्पाताल , खार , 

बम्बई - 52 - 
महितिचिन्ना 249.94 सूचना निदेशक , 

समाचार और सामयिक 
संख्या 113 मोटर गजरात सरकार , 

घटनाओं की फिल्म 
सचिवायल, 

( केवल गुजरात सर्किट 
अहमदाबाद 

में रिलीज करने के 
लिये ) 


सिंठ्या फा० 241 1168- एफ० पी० परिशिष्ट 1400 ) 


S . O . 4673.- - In pursuance of the directions issued under the provision of the 
enactment specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto , the Central Government 
after considering the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay hereby 
approves the Alm specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed hereto 
in Hindi to be of the description specified against it in column 6 of the said 
Second Schedule. 

THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Sub - Section ( 4 ) of Section 5 of Uttar Pradesh Cinemas ( Regulation ) 
Act, 1955 (Uttar Pradesh Act No. 3 of 1956 ) . 

THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


sl. 


Title of the film 


Length 
35mm 


Name of the 
Applicant 


Name of the 
Producer 


No . 


Whether a Scientific 
film or a film in 
tended for ceduca 
tional purposes or a 
film dealing with 
news & current 
events or a docu 
mentary film . 


- 


- 


I . 


Uttarakhand ( Hindi) 355 . 00 


Sh. Dhirendra 
Pande , 
Films Officer , 
Dtc . of Informa - 
tion Govt . of 
U . P . , Lucknow 


Director of 
Information , 
Govt . of U . P . 
Lucknow 


Documentary film , 
(for release in U . P . 
circuit only) . 
only ) 


[ No . F . 24/ 1 / 89 - FP. App.1401. ] 


5112 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV , 22, 1969/ AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [Part II — 


एस० प्रो० 4673 इसके साथ लगी प्रथम अनुसूची में निर्धारित प्रत्येक अधिनियम के उपबन्ध 
के अन्तर्गत जारी किये गये निदेशों के अनुसार, केन्द्रीय सरकार,फिल्म सलाहकार बोर्ड , बम्बई की सिफा 
रिशों पर विचार करने के बाद, एतद्वारा , इसके साथ लगी द्वितीय अनुसूची के कालम 2 में दी गई 
फिल्म की उसके हिन्दी भाषा के रूपान्तर सहित , जिसका विवरण उसके सामने उक्त द्वितीय अनु 
सूची के कालम 6 में दिया हुआ है, स्वीकृत करती है :-- 


प्रथम अनुसूची 
(1 ) उत्तर प्रदेश सिनेमा ( विनियम ) अधिनियम , 1955 ( 1956 की तीसरी उत्तर 
प्रदेश अधिनियम ) की धारा 5 की उपधारा ( 4) । 


छतीय अनुसूची 


क्रम संख्या फिल्म फिल्म की लम्बाई श्रावेदक का नाम निर्माता का नाम क्या वैज्ञानिक फिल्म 
का नाम 35 मि० मि० 

है या शिक्षा 
सम्बन्धी 
फिल्म है या 
समाचार और 
मामयिक घट 
नाओं की फिल्म 
है या डाकु 
मेंट्री फिल्म है 


12 


1 उत्तराखंड 355 . 00 मीटर श्री धीरेन्द्र पांडे, सूचना निदेशक , डाकुमेन्ट्री फिल्म 
(हिन्दी ) 

फिल्म अधिकारी , उत्तर प्रदेश सर- ( केवल उत्तर 
सूचना निदेशक , कार , लखनऊ प्रदेश सकिट के 
उत्तर प्रदेश सर 

लिये ) 
कार , लखनऊ 


[ संख्या० फा० 24/ 1 / 69 - एफ० पी० परिशिष्ट 1401 ] 


8 . O . 4674 . - In pursuance of the directions issued under the provision of the 
tnactment specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto the Central Government 
after considering the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay 
hereby approves the Alm specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed 
hereto in Telugu to be of the description specified against it in column B of the 
vaid Second Schedule . 

THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Sub -Section ( 3 ) of Section 5 of the Andhra Pradesh Cinemas ( Regula 

___ tion ) Act, 1955 ( President s Act 4 of 1955 ) . 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV . 22, 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5113 


THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


s . 
No . 


Title of the film 


Lengih 
38mm 


Name of the 
Applicant 


Name of the 
Producer 


Whether a Scientific 
film or a film in 
tended for educa 
lional purposes or 

a film dealing with 
news and current 
events or a docu 
mentary film 


3 


4 


I Milk Milk Milk 

( Telugu ) 


336. T9M Shri R. R . Sathyan , 

R . S . Movics , 
3 /145 Hyterbasti , 
Secunderabad , 
Andhra Pradeshi 


Documentary film 

( for release in the 
Telugu speaking 
areas ) 


[ No. F . 24 / 1 / 69 -FP. App. 1402. ] 

___ K . K. KHAN, Under Secy . 
एस० प्रो० 4674 . इसके साथ लगी प्रथम अनुसूची में निर्धारित प्रत्येक 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध के अर्न्तगत जारी किये गये निदेदशों के अनुसार , केन्द्रीय , सरकार , फिल्म 
सलाहकार बोर्ड , बम्बई की सिफारिशों पर विचार करने के बाद , एतद्वारा , इसके साथ लगी 
द्वितीय अनसूची के कालम 2 में दी गई फ़िल्म की उसके तेलगु भाषा रूपान्तर सहित , जिसका 
विवरण उसके सामने उक्त्त द्वितीय अनुसूची के कालम 6 में दिया हुआ है , स्वीकृत करती है : 


प्रथम अनुसूची 
( 1 ) आन्ध्र प्रदेश सिनेमा (विनियमन ) अधिनियम 1955 ( 1955 का राष्ट्रपति 

का अधिनियम 4 ) की धारा 5 की उप -धारा 3 . 


द्वितीय अनुसबी 


क्रम फिल्म का फिल्म की आवेदक निर्माता का नाम क्या वैज्ञानिक फिल्म है या 
संख्या नाम लम्बाई का 

शिक्षा सम्बन्धी फ़िल्म है या 
35 मि0 मी0 नाम 

समाचार और सामयिक 
घटनामों की फिल्म है या 
डाकमेन्ट्री फ़िल्म है 


12 


3 


1. मिल्क , 


मिल्क , मिल्क 336 , 19 श्री बी० पार० डाकमेन्ट्री फ़िल्म (केवल 
मीटर 

सथ्यांन, पार. आन्ध्र प्रदेश सफिट के 
एस. मवीज़ , लिये ) 
3/ 145, हतरबस्ती 
सिकन्द्राबाद , 
आन्ध्र प्रदेश 


[ संख्या फा० 24/ 1/ 69 एफ ० पी० -परिशिष्ट 1402 ] 

के० के० खान , अवर सचिव । 


5114 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV . 22, 1969 /AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [PART II 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING AND WORKS, HOUSING 

AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT 

(Department of Health ) 

New Delhi, the 7th November 1969 
8 . 0 . 5675 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8A of the Aircraft 
Act, 1934, ( 22 of 1934 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following Rules 
further to amend the Indian Aircraft (Public Health ) Rules, 1954 , the same 
having been previously published as required by section 14 of the said Act. 
namely 

1. These rules may be called the Indian Aircraft (Public Health ) Amendment 
Rules, 1969. 


2 . In the Indian Alrcraft (Public Health ) Rules , 1954; 

(i) In rule 1, the word " Indian " shall be omitted ; 
( ii ) In rule 48, for the words " the District Magistrate for the place of death ” , 

the words " the District Magistrate or the Deputy Commissioner or 
the Chief Presidency Magistrate or the Coroner within whose jurisdic 
tion the death took place " shall be substituted . 

[No. 34 - 1 / 64-1. H . ] 
S . SRINIVASAN , Under Secy 

RINIVAS 


(Department of Ilealth ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 7th November 1969 
$ . O . 4676 . - Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the 
late Ministry of Health No. 16 - 5 / 62-MI, dated the 23rd July , 1962, the Central 
Government has directed that the Medical qualifcation " M . D . " awarded by the 
University of Georgetown, Washington , U . S . A , shall be recognised medical qualifi 
cation for the purposes of the Indian Medical Council Act 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) ; 

And , whereas, Dr. (Miss ) Elleen Niedfield who possesses the said qualification 
is for the time being attached to the Holy Family Hospital, Mandar, Ranchi 
District for the purposes of charitable work in the country ; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of clause ( c ) of the proviso to sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 14 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby specifles - 

(i) a period upto the 31st December , 1969 or 
( 11) the period during which Dr. (Miss ) Eileen Niedfield is attached to the 

sald Holy Family Hospital, Mandar , Ranchi District, 
whichever is shorter , as the period to which the medical practice by the aforesaid 
doctor shall be limited . 

(No. F . 19 -6 / 68-MPT.] 
R . MURTHI, Under Secy. 


( Department of Works Housing and Urban Development) 


New Delhi, the 15th November 1989 


S . O . 46977. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Public 
Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants ) Act, 1958 ( 32 of 1958 ) , the Cen 
tral Government hereby appoints the officer mentioned in column ( 1 ) of the 
table below , being officer of the Bokaro Steel Limited equivalent to the rank of a 
gazetted officer of Government, to be Estate Officer for the purposes of the said 
Act , who shall exercise the powers conferred , and perform the duties imposed on 
Estate Omers by or under the said Act within the local limits of his jurisdiction 
in respect of the public premises specified in the corresponding entry in Column 
( 2 ) of the said table . 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV . 22 , 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5115 

- - 
THE TABLE 


. . 


Designa ion of 
offivor 


Calegorics of public premises and local limits of 
jurisdiction 


( 1) 


(2 ) 


Town Id :nin ;Straior 
Bokaro Steel Limiied 
Bokaro Stcel City , 
District Dhanbadli 
Bihar. 


Premises belonging to and under the 
ad :ninistrative control of Bokaro Steel Limited 
which have been acquired by the State of Bihor 
for Bokaro Steel out of portion of Chas 
Police Station and the portion of Hazaribagli 
District which has been transferred to Dhanbad 
Disisict . 


[ No . F . 21011(4 )/ 66 -Pol. IV . ] 
T , K . BALASUBRAMANIAM , 
Dy . & Director of Estates and 

Ex -Officio Under Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS 

( P . & T , Board ) 

New Delhi, the 12th November 1969 
S . O . 4678 - In exercise of powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of the 
Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules to amend the Indian 
Posts and Telegraphs Inspectors of Mall Motor Service and Head Clerks of Mall 
Motor Service Recruitment Rules, 1967, namely : 


1. Short Title and Commencement. - ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Indian 
Posts and Telegraphs Inspectors of Mall Motor Service and Head Clerks of Mad 
Motor Service Recruitment ( Amendment) Rules , 1969 ; 


(2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official 
Gazette. 


2 . In the Schedule to the posts and Telegraphs Inspectors of Mail Motor Service 
and Head Clerks of Mall Motor Service Recruitment Rules, 1967 , in the entries in 
columns 7 and 10 , for the figure and word " 1st January ” the figure and word " lst 
July ” shall be substituted . 


(No. 5 / 53 / 69 -SPB . II. ] 


R . RAJAGOPALAN , 
Assistant Director General (SPN ) . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR , EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 

(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 7th November 1969 
S . O . 4679 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 , 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, (No. 3 ), Dhanbad , in the industrial dis 
pute between the employers in relation to the management of Kharkharee Colliery 
of Messrs Bharat Mining Corporation Limited , and their workmen , which was ro 
celved by the Central Government on the 3rd November , 1969. 


$ 116 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV . 22 , 1969 /AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 (Part II - 


THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO. 3 ) 

AT DHANBAD 

REFERENCE NO . 8 OF 1969 
PRESENT : 

Shri Sachidanand Sinha, M .A . M .L ., Presiding Officer : 
PARTES : 
Employers in relation to the Management of Kharkharee Colllery. 

AND 
Their workmen . 
APPEARANCES ; 

For employers : Shri S . S . Mukherjee , Advocate . 

For workmen : Shri S . N . Mishra , General Secretary , 
INDUSTRY : Coal 

STATE : Bihar. 
Dhanbad , the 27th of Octber 1969 


AWARD 


1. The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the rianagement of Kharkharee colliery of 
Messrs Bharat Mining Corporation Limited , Post Omce Kharkharee, District Dhan 
bad and their workmen , by Its order No. 2 / 240 / 68 -LRII dated the 18th of January , 
1969 referred under section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 to this 
Tribunal for adjudication the dispute in respect of the mattery specified in the 
Schedule annexed thereto . The Schedule is extracted below : 


SCHEDULE 
" 1 . Whether the action of the management of Kharkharee Colliery of Messrs 

Bharat Mining Corporation Limited Post Office Kharkharee , District 
Dhanbad in transferring Sarvashri Shiwaji Şingh , Nand Kishore Singh , 
Samad Selkh and Jadu Mahato , Mining Sirdars to the Dakra Bukhuka 
Colliery owned by Messrs United Karanpura Collierles Limited with 

effect from the 7th August, 1968 was justified ? 
2. If not, to what relief are the workmen concerned entitled ? 
3 . Whether the refusal of the management to pay wages to the four workmen , 

Saryashri Shlwaji Singh , Nand Kishore Singh , Samad Seikh and Jadu 
Mahato , Mining Sirdars for the period of their idleness from the 7th 
August , 1968 to the 12th October , 1968 (Both days inclusive ) was justi 

fled ? 
4 . If not , to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 
5 . Whether the action of the management in refusing employment to Shri 

Shyam Narayan Jadav, Mining Sirdar with effect from the 7th August, 

1968 was justified ? 
6 . If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ?” 
2 . The Dircetor , Kharkharee Colliery , Bharat Mining Corporation Ltd . Aled . 
written statement on 20th March , 1969 Shri S . N . Misra , General Secretary , Khar 
kharee Ganeshpur Labour Union Aled written statement on behalf of the workmen 
on 4th June, 1969. It is unnecessary to state the respective cases of the parties 
because the dispute has now been settled amicably . They have filed a compromise 
petition duly verified by the Director, Kharkharee colliery , Bharat Mining Corpora 
tion Ltd . on behalf of the employer and by Sri S . N . Mishra , General Secretary , 
Kharkharee Ganeshpur Labour Union on behal: of the workmen , According to the 
terms of compromise the concerned workmen S / Shri Shiwaji Singh , Nand Kishore 
Singh , Samed Seikh , Jadu Mahato and Shyam Narayan Jaday have since joined 
Kharkharee Colliery and the period from 7th August , 1988 till they are jсining 
will be treated as if they were on leave for the purpose of their continuity of service 
only . The concerned workmen S / Shri Shiwaji Singh , Samad Seikh . and Jadu 
Mahato will be paid 30 ( Thirty ) days wages each as an Ex -gratia payment for the 
period from 7th August, 1968 to their respective dates of joining service . S / Shri 
Nand Kishore Singh and Shyam Narain Jadav will be paid each 45 (Forty five ) 
days wages as an Ex -gratia Payment for the period from 7th August, 1968 till 
their respective dates of joining service. The concerned workmen S / Shri Shiwaji 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV. 22 , 1969 / AGRAHAYANA I, 1891 5117 


Singh , Samad Seikh , Jadu Mahato and Nand Kishore Singh and Shyam Narain Jadav 
· will be treated as if present in their duties in the period of their idleness for the 
purpose of service continuity and they will get all other facilities (Leave , Bonus 
etc .) linked with the attendance and the aforesaid amount wili be paid within 15 
days of this settlement. The terms are fair and satisfactory and the same are ac 
cepted . 

3 . Let the reference be disposed of in terms of the compromise Annexure " A " 
which will form part of the award . The award now be submitted to the Central 
Government under section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947. 


( Sd .) SACHIDANAND SINZIA 

Presiding Officer . 


ANNEXURE " A " 


BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER . CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL - CUM -LABOUR COURT NO . 3 DHANBAD . 

REFERENCE No . 8 OF 1969 
PARTIES : - Employers in relation to the Management of Kharkharee Colliery of M / 8 

Bharat Mining Corporation Ltd . 


AND 


Their Workmen . 


The parties above named beg to submit that without prejudice to their respec 
tive contentions contained in the written statement the present dispute has been 
amicably settled between the parties on the following terms : 

1. That S / Shri Shiwaji Singh , Nand Kishore Singh , Samad Seikh , Jadu Mahato 
and Shyam Narain Jadav have since joined Kharkharee Colliery and the period 
from 7th August , 1968 till they are joining will be treated as if they were on leave 
for the purpose of their continuity of Service only . 


2. That S / Shri Shiwaji Singh , Samad Seikh and Jadu Mahato will be paid 
30 ( Thirty ) days wages each as an Ex -gratia payment for the period from 7th 
August, 1968 to their respective dates of joining service . 


3 . That S / Shri Nand Kishore Singh and Shyam Narain Jadav will be paid each 
45 (Forty Five) days wages as an Ex -gratia payment for the period from 7th 
August , 1968 till their respective dates of joining service . 


4 . That S / Shri Shlwaji Singh , Samad Seikh , Jadu Mahato and Nand Kishore 
Singh and Shyam Narain Jadav will be treated as present in their duties in the 
period of their idleness for the purpose of service continuity and they will get all 
other facilities (Leave, Bonus etc .) linked with the attendance . 


5 . That the above payment will be paid within 15 days of this settlement. 


6 . That the above terms of settlement finally resolves all the disputes pending 
between the parties . 


7. That the parties will bear their respective costs of this proceeding. 


It is , therefore, prayed that this settlement may kindly be recorded and an 
Award passed in terms thereof. 
For Workmen 

For Employer 
( şd .) Illegible 

(60) Illegible 
The General Secretary , 

Director 
Kharkharee Ganeshpur 

Kharkharee Colliery . 
Labour Union . 

Bharat Mining Corporation Limited . 
P . O . Maheshpur. 
Distt. Dhanbad . 

[No. 2 / 240 / 60- LR .II.) 


5118 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV , 22 , 1969/ AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [PART II 


S . O . 4680 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Trbunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dispute bet 
ween the employers in relation to the management of North Jhagrakhand Colliery . 
Post Office Jhagrakhand Colllery , District Surguja (Madhya Pradesh ) , and their 
workmen , which was recelved by the Central Government on the 1st November , 
1969. 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL -CUM 

LABOUR COURT, JABALPUR 


Dated October 24 , 1969 


PRESENT : 
Shri G . C . Agarwala , Presiding Officer, 

CABE No . CGIT / LC ( R ) ( 34 ) OF 1969 
PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to the management of North Jhagrakhand Colllery , 
Post Office Jhagrakhand Colliery District Surguja ( M . P .) 


Vs. 


Their workmen represented through the Azad Koyala Shramik Sabha , Jhagra 

khand Collery, Distt . Surguja ( M . P .) . 


APPEARANCES : 
For employers - Shri G . R . Bhandari, Group Personnel Officer, Jhagrakhand 

Collierles . 
For workmen - Shri Abhiman Singh President, Azad Koyala Shramik Sabha 

Jhagrakhand Colliery , 
INDUSTRY : Coal Ming 

DISTRICT : Surguja (M . P .). 


AWARD 


By Notification No. 5 / 14 / 69 / LRII dated 21st August , 1969 , the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) , 
Government of India , referred the following matter of dispute es stated in the 
schedule to the order of reference to this Tribunal, for adjudication : 


Matter of Dispute 
“ Whether keeping in ylew of the recommendations of the Wage Board in 

Appendix VI at page, 54, Volume II of the Central Wage Board for 
Coal Mining Industry the demand of the Azad Koyala Shramik Sabha , 
Post Office Jhagrakhand Colliery for placing Shri K . N . Pandey , Clerk 
Grade III as Grade II in North Jhagrakhand Colliery , is justified ? If 
so , to what relief is the workman entitled ? 


2 . The dispute relates to the fitment of a workman , Sri K . N . Pandey , Clerk who 
had been placed in Grade III . The demand of the workman and the Union , however , 
was that he should be fitted in Grade II in consequence of Central Wage Board 
recommendations Before , however , statements of claim could be filed parties com 
promise the dispute and a petition of compromise settlement which has been veri 
fled before me was Aled on 23rd October 1969 and is annexure to the award . The 
Union agreed to the position that Sri K , N . Pandey has been correctly placed in 
Clerical Grade III. At the same time, the management agreed to give him Grade II 
in recognition to his past services with a basic salary of Rs. 226 / - per month with 
effect from 1st November , 1969. The dispute is thus satisfactorily resolved . An 
award in terms of compromise petition is hereby recorded , 


(Sd ) G . C . AGARWALA , 
Presidựng Omcer. 

24 - 10 - 1969. 


SEÇ . 3 ( ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV. 22, 1969/ AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5119 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , JABALPUR 

In the matter of Reference No. CGIT / LC / ( R ) (34 ) of 1969 


PARTIES : Employers in relation to North Jhagrakhand Colliery of M / s Jhagrakhand 

Collierles Pvt. Ltd ., P . O . Jhagrakhand Colliery , Distt ; Surguja ( M . P .) : 


Vs. 
Their Workmen 


The joint petition on behalf of the employers and the workmen most respect 
fully sheweth : 
1. That the parties have settled the above dispute on the following terms: 
( a ) The union accepts that considering the nature of work performed by Sri 

K . N . Pandey Clerk , Noth Jhagrakhand Colliery he has been cor 

rectly placed in Clerical Grade III. 
(b ) The management in recognition of the past service of Sri Pandey , agrees 

to put him in clerical grade II with starting basic salary of Rs. 226 / 

per month with effect from 1st November , 1969 . 
( c ) The union agrees that Sri K . N . Pandey shall work in any job falling 

under clerical Grade II as may be assigned by the management from 

time to time, 
( d ) The workman has no other claim whatsoever against the management, 
( e ) The parties will bear their own cost of the proceedings. 


2 . The parties pray that the Hon ble Tribunal may be pleased to give its award 
in the present Reference in the aforesaid terms. 

Signed at Jhagrakhand Colllery on the 18th day of October, 1969. 
Representing Workmen 

Representing Employers 
( Sd ) ABIIIMAN SINGII 

(Sd.) G . R . BHANDARI 


President, 

18 - 10 - 1969. 
Azad Koyla Shramik Sabha , 

Group Personnel Omcer, 
Jhagrakhand Collery , 

Jhagrakhand Collieries . 
( Sd .) B . BORAL 

(Sd.) G . R . BHANDAR 
18 - 10 -1969 . 
General Secretary , 
Azad Koyala Shramik Sabha , 
Jhagrakhand Colllery , 
Dated 18th October, 1969 

Verifed 
( Sd .) B . BORAL 

( Sd .) G . C . AGARWALA 
23 - 10 - 1969 . 

23 - 10 - 1969. 
Part of Award 

( Sd .) G . C . AGARWALA , 

Presiding Officer . 

24 - 10 - 1969 . 

[ No. 5 / 14 / 69 -LR . II. ] 
New Delhi, the 13th November 1969 
S . O . 4681, — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of Shri K . 
Sharan , Arbitrator , Asansol, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the management of Ranipur Colllery of Messrs Equitable Coal Com 
pany Limited , Post Office Dishergarh , District Burdwan and their workmen , which 
was received by the Central Government on the 31st October, 1969 , 


5120 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV , 22 , 1969/ AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [PART II 


BEFORE SHRI K . SHARAN , REGIONAL LABOUR COMMISSIONER (C ) , 

ASANSOL 


AND 


Arbitrator 
PRESENT : - 

Shri K . Sharan , Regional Labour Commissioner ( C ) , Asansol. 
PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to Ranipur Colliery of M / s . Equitable Coal Company 
Limited , P . O . Dişhergarh , District Burdwan . 

Vra. 
Their workmen represented by the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha (A .I. T .U .C .) , 

P . O . Raniganj, District Burdwan . 
APPEARANCES : 

For employer - Lt. Col. S . P . Sharma, Chief Personnel Omcer , M / s. Equit 

able Coal Co . Ltd . 
For the workmen - Shri Robin Chatterjee, Vice President Colllery Mazdoor 

Sabha (AITUC ) , P . O . Raniganj, Burdwan . 
INDUSTRY : Coal Mine 

Distt : Burdwan (West Bengal). 
No. E . 1 / 1 ( C ) / 69 . 

Asansol, the 27th October, 1969 

AWARD 
The Central Government, having received on the 24th September , 1969 , a 
written agreement dated the 3rd September , 1969 , between the employers in rela 
tion to Ranipur Colllery of M / s . Equitable Coal Co . Ltd ., P . O . Dishergarh , Dist. 
Burdwan (hereinafter referred to as the management) and their workmen re 
presented by the Colllery Mazdoor Sabha (AITUC ) , P . O . Raniganj, Dist. Burdwan 
(hereinafter referred to as the Union ) in pursuance of the provisions of sub - sec 
tion ( 1 ) of Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) referring 
the Industrial dispute between them , the specific matters in dispute being detalled 
below , to my arbitration and the Central Government being of the opinion that the 
Industrial dispute referred to above existed between the said management and 
their workmen , ordered publication of the said arbitration agreement in the 
Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 , Sub - section ( il) under its order No . 6 / 08 / 69 
LRII dated the 13th October, 1969 : 

Specific matters in dispute 
" Whether the management of Ranipur Colllery of M / s . Equitable Coal Com 
pany Limited was justified in transferring the workmen named below from Rani 
pur Colllery to different collleries / establishments mentioned against the name of 
the respective workman ? If not , to what relief are the workmen concerned en 
Hitledt 
Sl . Na:ne of the 

Designation 

Date of 

Transferred 
No. workmen 

Order of 

to 

transfer 

- - - - . . - - 
I 2 
I . Shri Banwari 

Timber Mistry 

21 -6 -69 

Befdih 

Colliery. 
2 . Shri Kali Roy 

Machine Driver 

23 - 7 -69 

Beldib 

Colliery . 
3 . Shri Sashnath 

U /G . Trammer 

23 - 7 -69 

Methoni 
Pandey 

Colliery . 
4 . Shri Bhagbat 

Electrician 

23 - 7 -69 

Methani 
Chatterfee 

Colliery . 
3. Shri Gour Hari 

W . O s Clerk 

23 - 7 -69 

Agent s 
Roy 

Office at 
Methani" 


- 


- 


. 


. - - - 


SEC. 3( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV, 22 , 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5121 


2 . The representative of the management submitted to me a written statement 
dated 8th September 1969 which was received by me on 12th September 1969 . The 
representative of the union did not submit any written statement. The parties 
were called upon to attend hearing at my office on 9th September 1969 but the 
hearing could not take place as the parties did not submit their written statement 
in this regard . However, the hearing was Anally adjourned to be held at my 
office on 15th September 1969 on which date Shri Lt. Col. S . P . Sharma, Chief 
Personnel Officer appeared on behalf of the management and Shri Robin Chatterjee, 
Vice-President, Colliery Mazdoor Sabha (AITUC ) , Raniganj appeared on behalf of 
the workmen . On 15th September 1969 the parties filled a joint petition of com 
promise dated 12th September 1969 stating therein that the dispute was amicably 
settled between the parties on the terms incorporated in the joint petition of 
compromise dated 12th September 1989 and that I might accept the terms of the 
settlement incorporated in the joint petition of compromise referred to above and 
pass my award accordingly . The terms of the settlement incorporated in the Joint 
petition of conipromise dated 12th September 1969 were duly verified and brought 
on record . The terms of the settlement, incorporated in the joint petition of 
compromise referred to above appear to me to be fair , reasonable and in the in 
terest of the workmen concerned and as such I accept them . Accordingly , I make 
my arbitration award in terms of the joint petition of compromise dated 12th 
September 1969 and submit it to the Central Government under Section 10A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act , 1947. The joint petition of compromise in question is 
annexed hereto and made part of the award. 


$ d . / - K , SHARAN , 
Regional Labour Commissioner ( C ) , 

Asansol & Arbitrator . 
BETORE THE ARBITRATOR SHRI K . SHARAN , REGIONAL LABOUR 

COMMISSIONER ( CENTRAL ) , ASANSOL 
In the matter of Industrial dispute between the management of Ranipur 

Colllery of M / s. Equitable Coal Co . Ltd. , P . O . Dishergarh , Distt. 
Burdwan , 


AND 
Their workmen represented by the Colllery Mazdoor Sabha (AITUC ) , P . O . 

Raniganj, Distt. Burdwan . 


The parties hereby Jointly submit that the dispute in question has been amt 
cably resolved by them on the following terms: 
( 1 ) The transfer orders issued by the management of Ranipur Colliery 

to S / Shri Banwari and Gour Hari shall be withdrawn by the 
management and they would be posted back to Ranipur Colliery with 

effect from 15th October , 1969 . 
(2 ) Shri Kall Roy who has already joined at Bejdih Colliery as per his 

transfer order shall also be ordered to join back at Ranipur Colliery 

within 7 days from date . 
( 3 ) The union agrees not to press the case of other two workmen involved 

in this dispute namely S / Shri Sashnath Pandey and Bhagbat Chatter 

jee who have already carried out the transfer orders . 
(4 ) The management further agrees that the period of absence of the three 

workmen namely S / Shri Banwari, Gour Hari and Kali Roy after the 
servicing of the transfer orders to them shall be treated as leave without 

pay . 
( 8 ) The Arbitrator may therefore , be pleased to award accordingly . 
Representing the employers 

Representing the Employees . 
Sd / - Lt. Col. $ . P . Sharma (Retired ) Sd / - ROBIN CHATTERJEE , Vice President, 
Chief Personnel Officer , 

Colliery Mazdoor Sabha , P .O . Ranigan ), 
M / s. Equitable Coal Co. Ltd ., 

Burdwan , 
P . O . Dishergarh , Distt. Burdwan . 
dated September 12 , 1969. 

[ No. 8 /68 / 89 -LR . II. I 


5122 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV , 22 , 1969/AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [PART II — 


S . O , 4682 . - - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Cen 
tral Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, In the Industrial Dispute between 
the employers in relation to the management of Datla West Colliery of the Amal 
gamated Coalfields Limited , Post Office Parasia , District Chhindwara ( M . P . ) , and 
their workmer , which was received by the Central Government on the 1st Novem 
ber . 1969 . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL -CUM 

LABOUR COURT JABALPUR 

Dated October 27 , 1969 
PRESENT : 
Shri G . C . Agarwala , Presiding Officer. 

Case No. CGIT / LC (R )(20) OF 1969 
PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to the managernent of Datla West Colllery of the 
Amalgamated Coalfields Ltd ., P . O . Parasia , District Chhindwara ( M . P .) . 

Vs. 
Their workmen represented through the Satpura Koyala Khadan Mazdoor 

Congress, P . O . Junnardeo , District. — Chhindwara (M . P . ). 
APPEARANCES ; 
For employers - Shri S . D . Singh , Personnel Officer , The Amalgamated Coal 

fields Ltd ., The Pench Valley Coal Co . Ltd . 
For workmen Shri Ramnarayan Singh , General Secretary Satpura Koyala 

Khadan Mazdoor Congress. 
INDUSTRY : Coal Mine 

DISTRICT : Chhindwara ( M . P . ) . 

AWARD 
By Notification No . 5 / 24 / 68- LRII dated 14th April, 1969, the Ministry o.- Labour, 
Employment & Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment), Govern 
ment of India , referred the following matter of dispute as stated in the schedule to 
the order of reference to this Tribunal, for adjudication : 

Matter of dispute 
Whether the management of the Datla West Collierles of Messers Shaw Wallace 
and Company Limited , Post Once Parasia , District Chhindwara , Madhya Pradesh , 
was justified in categorising the workmen named below as dressers and paying an 
allowance of 25 paise per shift per worker for performing the duties of dresser in 
addition to their duties as dressers ? 
1 . Kandhel T . No. 

1816 
2 . Kanhai T , No. 

1031 
3 . Rahman T . No. 

1831 
4 . Bhikha 

1060 
5. Surat Singh 

9096 
6 . Premchond 

1012 
7 . Mahadeo 

1806 
8 . Chandidas 

1823 
9 . Ramcharan 

18II 
10 . Mahip Singh 

1025 
II . Purvce 

1828 
12 . Maharaj Singh 

1027 
13 . Raghunath 

1055 
14 . Rameshwar 

1827 
I5 . Mahboob 

1824 
16 . Gandlal 

1022 
17 . Chandrika 

1826 
18 . Dashrath 

1835 
19 . Bhahutiu 

1813 
20 . Bhondal 

1018 
21. Gulabchand Ti No: 

1843 
22 , Langru 

1822 
23. Jcotia 

1043 


................. 


................. 


..................... 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV, 22, 1969 /AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5123 


ناناناليلمادنیارا 


1067 


24. Ganpati T . No. 

1808 
25 . Bhura 

1809 
26 . Kartik 

1024 
27. Malikadas 

1029 
28 . Ruamal 

1788 
29. Ilameshagul 

1028 
30 . Sconath 

1292 
31. Samaru 

1030 
32. Nandlal 

1934 
33. Sekhaulam 

1820 
34 . Buddhu 

1830 
35. Tantu 
36 . Tamman 
37 . Ojha . 
38 . Lalau . 
39. Bahadur 
40 . Ratan 
41. Sekh Sakoor 
If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 

After pleadings were Aled certain issues were framed on 10th July , 1969. Before , 
however , evidence could be recorded , parties on this date of hearing compromised 
the dispute and Aled a compromise petition which was duly verifled before me and 
is annexure to the award . From the terms of the compromise petition , it appears 
that the management has agreed to give category IV and designate 4 workmen 
namely Channidas, Mahip Singh , Maharaj Singh and Rehman as Drillers . For 
others, the parties agreed that as they have been working for a short time only as 
Drillers the allowance of Rs. 0 .25 paise shall be raised to Rs. 0 . 37 paise . The dis 
pute is thus satisfactory resolved and an award in terms of compromise petition 
which is accepted is hereby recorded . 

Sd . / - G . C . AGARWALA , 
Presiding Officer. 

27 - 10 - 69 . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL -CUM 

LABOUR COURT ( CENTRAL ) JABALPUR 

IN THE MATTER OF REFERENCE NO. CGIT / LC ( R ) ( 20 ) / 69 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to Datla West Colliery of tbe Amalgarrated Coal fields 

Ltd ., P . O . Parasia , Dist. Chhindwara ( M . P . ) - - Non - Applicants. 


vs. 


Their workmen of Datla West Colliery , represented by the Satpura Koyala 

Khadan Mazdoor Congress , P . O . Junnordeo , Distt . Chhindwara ( M . P .) 

— Applicants. 
Both the above mentioned parties jointly submit as under : 

1. That the above reference was made by the Government of India , Ministry 
of Labour, Employment & Rehabilitation (Dept. of Labour & Employment) to this 
Hon ble Tribunal under their Order No. S . O . 5 / 24 / 68 -LRII dated 14th April, 1969 , 
which is now fixed for hearing for 27th October , 1969 . 

2 . That M / s. Shaw Wallace & Co . Ltd . have ceased to be the managing agents 
of the Amalgamated Coalfields Ltd , with effect from 15th August 1969, and as such , 
the employers of the workers under Terms of Reference are M / s , The Amalgamated 
Coalfields Ltd ., P . O . Parasia , Dist . Chnindwara ( M . P . ) , and not M / s . Shaw Wallace 
& Co. Ltd ., as mentioned in the terms of Reference . 

3 . That both the parties have now mutually settled this dispute among them 
selves on the following terms: 

Terms of Settlement 
1 . That it is agreed that all the Dressers and all the Drillers of Datla West 
Colliery have been doing the combined job of dressing and drilling within 8 hours 


5124 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV. 22, 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [Part II - 


of their shift duty for the last 10 years and they will continue to do so in future . 
However , during major part of their shift , Dressers do the job of dressing of coal 
roof , etc. and for a shortwhile , as and when required , they do the job of drilling 
for which at present they are being paid 25 P per Dressers per shift. But, the 
dressers at the other mines of M / s . The Amalgamated Coalfields Ltd . & The Pench 
Valley Coal Co. Ltd ., are doing the job of dressing - cum - drllling for the past 
many years , for which they are paid adequate drilling allowance, to which the 
union agrees and has no objection to such existing system of work . 

2 . Both the parties agree that the Dressers have been correctly put in Cat . III 
of the Coal Wage Board Recommendations and during their major part of their 
shift they do the job of dressing . However , to resolve the dispute and to have 
better industrial relations, both the parties agree that the 25 P allowance as men 
tioned in para l above, will be increased to 37 p ( thirty Seven paise only ) per 
Dresser per shift for doing the combined job of dressing and driling within their 
8 hours of shift, within two wecks from the date of filing of this settlement and 
the Dressers will not be entitled for any arrears on this account. 

3 . Both the parties agree that the following Dressers will be designated as 
Drillers in Category IV of the Central Wage Board Recommendations, i.e . Rs. 6 00 
0 . 20 -8 .90 on basic of Rs. 7 . 10 per day , within a week from the date of Alling of 
this mutual settlement before this Hon ble Tribunal : 

1 . Shri Channidas , Dresser. 
2. Shri Mahip Singh , Dresser . 
3. Shri Maharaj Singh , Dresser. 

4. Shri Rehman , Dresser. 
4 . Both the parties agree that in case of any promotion of any workman to 
the post of Dresser or Driller , he shall do the combined job of dressing and drilling 
as per terms hereinabove . 

5 . That the Union agrees that it shall not raise any further dispute nor prefer 
any claim in future in this regard . Both the parties state that the dispute under 
reference pending before this Hon ble Tribunal, thus stands finally settled and 
resolved . The parties shall bear their own cost. 

Prayer 
Both the parties pray that an Award may kindly be passed in terms of the 
aforesaid Settlement. 
Applicants 

Non - Applicants 
(Sa.) RAMNARAYAN SINGH 

(Sd.) S . D . SINGH 
General Secretary , 

Personnel Officer , 
Satpura Koyala Khadan Mazdoor 

The Amalgamated Coalfields Ltd , The 
Congress , P .O . Junnordeo , Dist . 

Pench Valley Coal Co . Ltd ., P . O . 
Chhindwara (M . P .) . 

Parasia , Distt . Chhindwara ( M .P .) . 

Verified 
( Sd .) G . C . AGARWALA, 

Presiding Officer. 
Dated October 25, 1969 . 

Part) of the Award 

( Sd .) G . C . AGARWALA , 
Presiding Officer. 

27- 10 -09 

[No. 5 / 24 / 68 -LRII. ] 
S . O . 4683 .- In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute bet 
ween the employers in relation to the management of P . D . Kajora Colliery , Post 
Office Kajoragram , District Burdwan and their workmen , which was received by 
the Central Government on the 1st November , 1909 . 


Sęc, 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOY . 22 , 1969 / AGRAHAYANA I , 1891 5125 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE NO. 57 OF 1969 


PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to the management of P . D . Kajora Colliery 


AND 


Their workmen . 


PRESENT; 

Shri B . N . Banerjee, Presiding Oficer , 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Employers - Absent. 
On behalf of Workmen - Shri B . S . Azad , General Secretary , Khan Mazdoor. 

Congress 
STATE : West Bengal 

INDUSTRY ; Coal Mines 

AWARD 
By Order No. 6 / 28 /69 -LRII, dated July 22 , 1969, the Government of India , in 
the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) , referred the following dispute between the employers in rela 
tion to the management of P . D . Kajora Colliery and their workmen , to this 
Tribunal, for adjudication , namely : 
" Whether the management of P . D . Kajora Colliery Post Office Kajoragram , 

District Burdwan was justified in terminating the service of Shri 
Bineshwar Singh with cffect from the 28th November, 1968 and if not, 

to what relief the workman is entitled ?" 
2 . The workmen fled a belated written statement after I had sent a notice for 
Axation of a datc of peremptory hearing . The employer behaved in their usual 
non - cooperative way , They did not Ale their written statement, did not appear 
before this Tribunal on the date fixed for settlement of a date of hearing and also 
did not appcar on the date fixed for peremptory hearing. In Reference No. 36 of 
1969 , between the same parties , in which I passed an award on August 13 , 1969, 1 
had to observe: 
" The employer colliery adopted an attitude of strange non - cooperation with 

the Tribunal from the beginning . It did not Ale written statement in 
time. After the date had arrived for settlement of peremptory date 
of hearing, the management woke up and wrote a letter asking for 

time to Ale written statement on the following ground : 
In view of the absence of the dealing clerk to attend for knowing the date 

and time to be Axed by your Honour for hearing the above Reference 
No. 35 of 1969 case , which may kindly be directed to your office to 
intimate me by letter, further more, I beg to state that replies of 
the W . S . of above reference is not yet ready , due to our Legal 

Adviser is out of station , go further 3 weeks time is solicited . 
Apart from the clumsiness of the language used , the ground pleaded 
is Allmsy . Even then this Tribunal fixed the peremptory date of hear 
ing for July 31, 1969, with liberty to the management to Alc their 
written statement before that date . Two days prior to the date of 
peremptory hearing , the management Aled a written statement but did 
not care to appear on the date of peremptory hearing. All that it did 
was to send an unworn and unverified application asking for adjourn 

ment of the peremptory hearing on the ground of manager s illness ." 
This time the management exhibited worse non - cooperation . It did not wake up 
at all and led thinks to drift for themselves . It is no use postponing the case 
excepting that the management would wake up , which they will never do . I 
therefore take up the case for exparte hearing . 

3 . It appears from the evidence of the workman himself that he was a perma 
nent workman entitled to get Provident fund, Bonus and also Rallway fare for 
going home, Bonus cards were exhibited and marked Exts . 1 , 2 and 3 . Prior to 
the date of his termination of service , he was working for 6 or 7 years in the colllery . 


5126 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV. 22, 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [PART II 


Suddenly the order oſ termination of service , dated November 28, 1968 (Ext . 4 ) , 
was sent to the workman couched in the following language : 
" As your work is unsatistactory, the management is hereby terminating your 

service from the date oſ this letter . 
Please collect your dues if any and vacate the quarters." 


The workman protested to the Manager by his letter dated November 28 , 1968. 
He also wrote a letter , dated December 2 , 1962, in the following language (Ext. 5 ) : 
" With reference to your above letter I beg to state that I am working in 

your above colliery since long permanently and regularly with the full 
satisfaction of my Superiors . So the question oť that your work is un 
satisfactory does not arise at all. Further the contention of your 
above letter that you are Pobationer U / G Trammer is totally false and 
baseless . I am working regularly and permanently since long . So this 
type of wrongful and illegal termination notice is quite illegal, unfair 
and unjust natural justice . 


Further I am active member of the Khan Shramil Congress union and pro 

tested several times against your illegal activitles regarding short and 
under payment, thus you becare displeased and unnecessarily issued 
me this illegal and wrongful termination letter without any reason . 
This termination notice was never offered me by Peon Book in any 

day , hence this allegation is also false . 
So you are requested to consider the matter and please try to reinstate me 

on my original job with immediate effect with the full back wages for 
the above illegal stoppage period and oblige." 


Standing Orders of the employer company provide : 
" 3 (b ) A permanent workman is one who is appointed for . an unlimited 

period or who has satisfactorily put in three months continuous ser 
vice in a permanent post as a probationer." 


Here , on the evidence I And that the workman was working for more than 6 or 7 
years . Even if in the Bonus Card he had at first been described as a probationer, 
he had put in more than 3 months continuous service thereafter and he must be 
deemed to have become a permanent workman , 


4 . It appears from the letter of termination of service ( Ext. 4 ) that the service 
of the workman was terminated for blameworthiness . Now , the service of a 
permanent workman cannot be terminated in such a high -handed fashion without 
& chargesheet, without an enquiry, without a report , and without proof of blaine 
worthiness . I , therefore , hold that the termination of service was unlawful, 


5 . In the view that I take, I set aside the order termination of service and 
direct reinstatement of the workman with full back wages from the date of ter 
mination of service. Liberty is reserved to the employer to terminate the service 
of the workman afresh according to Rule . 


This is my award . 
Dated , October 22, 1969. 


(Sd .) B . N . BANERJEE , 

Presiding Officer . 
[No 6 / 28 / 69 -LRII .] 


New Delhi, the 14th November 1969 
S . O . 4684 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act . 1947 ( 14 
ot 1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute bet 
ween the employers in relation to the management of Khas Dharmaband Colliery 
of Messrs Khas Dharmaband Colliery Company (Private ) Limited Post Omce 
Malkera District Dhanbad and their workmen , which was received by the Central 
Government on the 3rd November, 1989 . 


Sec . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV . 22 , 1969 / AGRAHAYANA I , 1891 5127 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT 

DHANBAD 
In the matter of a reference under section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 

REFERENCE No . 34 OF 1988 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Khas Dharmaband Colliery of Messrs Khas 

Dharmaband Colliery Company ( P ) Ltd ., P . O . Malkera . Distt . 
Dhanbad . 


AND 
Their Workman . 


PRESENT : 

Shri Kamla Sahal, Presiding Officer , 
APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers ; Shri S . S . Mukherjee, Advocate . 

For the Workman : Shri S . K Mukherjee , Advocate . 
STATE : Bihar 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Camp : Bombay , the 29th October, 1969 

AWARD 
By order No, 2 / 45 / 68-LRII, dated the 7th May , 1968 , the Central Government, 
in the Ministry of Labour , Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of 
Labour and Employment) has made this reterence to this Tribunal for adjudica 
tion of a dispute which has been described in the schedule attached to the refer 
ence as follows: 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of Khas Dharmaband Colliery of 

Messrs Khas Dharmaband Colllery Company ( P ) Ltd ., Post Office 
Malkera, District Dhanbad in dismissing Shri Nabin Chandra J . 
Mehta , Accountant / Cashier with effect from the 21st August, 1967 

was justified ? If not , to what relief is the workman entitled ? " 
2 . The management s case is that payment to workers had to be made on 
Saturday the 1st July , 1967, but, owing to the fact that there was delay in re 
ceipt of the money , payment started rather late and the entire payment could 
not be concluded on that date. According to the usual practice, payment had to 
start again early in the morning on Monday the 3rd July , 1967. Shri Nabin 
Chandra J . Mehta , Accountant / Cashier came that morning to the colliery office at 
about 8 - 30 AM , instead of 7 A . M . when work usually starts . The Manager , Shrt 
M . H . A . Mallick , sent for him and he came to the Manager s office . At that 
time, a number of workers had assembled at the door of the Manager s office and 
there -abouts and were making a row . The Manager asked Shri Nabin Chandra 
J. Mehta , the alleged delinquent, why he was getting him ( the Manager ) Insul 
ted and asked him to hand over charge of the cash to Shri Magan Bhai (Magan 
Lal N . Shcthia ). Nabin Chandra J , Mehta refused and left the oice. The 
Manager then sent a slip to him , Instructing him in writing to hand over charge 
of the cash to Shri Magan Lal N . Shethia but he retuşed again , saying that he 
would not hand over charge of the cash until he received instructions from Sri 
R . N . Singh , Director, or from Calcutta . 

3 . The management s case further is that, at about 10 -45 A . M . on the same 
date , Sri Mehta sent a slip to the Manager asking for his permission to go to 
Jharia to get his wound dressed . The Manager replied verbally that he was giving 
him a written reply within about ten minutes . Before this , Shri Mehta had asked 
the Manager to hand over the duplicate key of the Iron Safe but the Manager had 
replied " I am not able to give the key as you are not ready to hand over the cash 
to Shri M . N . Shethia " . 

4 . Shri Mehta handed over a written report (Ext. 14 ) in which he stated inter 
alia that he had begun payment on Saturday at about 4 - 15 P . M . and that he had 
got the pay counter closed at 6 -45 P .M . because the Manager had previously 


5128 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV , 22 , 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 (PART II 


asked him in the morning to come to him at about 7 -00 P .M , for 
discussion relating to books of accounts , that hulla was made by workers 
and labour leaders to continue paynient, that having failed to contact the 
Manager on phone, he (Shri Mehta ) went to the Manager s house and met him at 
about 7 -00 P . M .; that the Manager asked him to continue payment until 9 - 00 P . M . 
and to come to him on Sunday but, when Shri Mehta told him that the discus 
sions would take more than three hours , the Manager asked him to come for the 
discussions on Monday , that Shri Mehta started payment again and continued 
payment until about 9 - 10 P . M ., that he left the colliery at about 8 - 00 AM . on 
Sunday the 2nd July along with his family , that he was gheraced by some wagon 
loaders between Dharmaband and Mohuda at a place near Amjharna and told 
him that the Manager wanted him back and that, if he (Mehta ) did not go 
back , they would not allow him to proceed further . Mehta then asked the load 
ers to ask the Manager to send him a conveyance , for he could not go back on 
foot to the colliery which was at a great distance . The loaders further told 
Mehta that the Labour Welfare Officer ( Shri B . P . Yadav ) had instructed them to 
gherao him . Subsequently the loaders did not bring a conveyance for Mehta 
and thereafter Mehta was allowed to proceed to his father - in -law s house where 
he was going 

5 . The Manager kept the above report with himself. Later , on the same 
date , the Manager drew up chargesheet No. KD / CS / 24 / 875 / 67 against Mehta . 
In that chargesheet , Shri Mehta was alleged to have committed the following 
misconduct : 
( 1 ) Of wilful in subordinaion , disobedience of the lawful and reasonable 

order of the superior under clause 1 of clause 27 of the certifed 

standing orders and 
( 2 ) of leaving work without permission under clause 27 ( 18 ) of the 

certified standing orders . 
8 . Pending enquiry, Shri Mehta was called upon to hand over charge of the 
colliery cash by physical counting to Shri M , N . Shethia . General Supervisor as 
he had already been directed to do. 

7 . Mehta gave a reply to the chargesheet on the 5th July , 1967, denying the 
charges . Notice of enquiry ( Ex . M - 2 ) was served on the 8th July . The domestic 
enquiry was held by Shri S . R . P . Singh Group Labour Officer , on the 13th , 21st 
and 27th July , 1967. The proceedings of the engulry are Ext. M -5 . On the 3rd 
August, the enquiring officer submitted his report (Ext. M - 6 ) . I may shortly 
summarise what he has stated therein . He has given eight points and has pointed 
out the evidence which proves those points. He has mentioned that the manage 
ment examined four witnesses before him namely Shri B . P , Yadav ( P . W . 1 ) , 
Labour Officer , Shri M . N . Shethia ( P . W . 2 ) , General Supervisor, Shri Duryodhan 
Dasandhi ( P . W . 3 ) , Omce Peon and Shri M . H . A . Mallick ( P . W . 4 ) , Manager of 
Khas Dharmaband Colliery. The enquiring officer has also pointed out the 
witnesses who have supported the different points formulated by him and he has 
further added that Item Nos. 3 , 4 , 5 and 7 were admitted by Shri Mehta himself 
in the statement which he made before the enquiring officer . He also referred 
to the facts which Shri Mehta contradicted and has shown that his contradictions 
cannot be correct . He has then given the conclusion that both the charges framed 
against Shri Mehta have been established and he is guilty . Before giving his 
conclusion , he sas stated that Shri Mehta fully cross - examined the companys 
witnesses who were examined against him and that he was also given full op 
portunity to adduce defence evidence and to make his own statement. 
Ext. M - 7 is a letter dated the 9th August . 1967 sent by the Director of the col 
liery to the Manager , giving permission to him to dismiss Shri Mehta from 
service . 

8 . Ext. M - 8 is letter No. KD / 24 / 1846 / 67 dated 10th August , 1967 sent by the 
Manager to Shri Mehta . He has conveyed orders by this letter that Shri Mehta 
would stand dismissed from service with effect from the 21st August, 1967. He 
further offered Shri Mehta one months wages as required by section 33 ( 2 ) of 
the Industrial Disputes Act , 

9 . Shri S . K . Mukherjee , Advocate , who has appeared on behalf of the alleged 
delinquent, has argued only three points . His Arst point is that Shri Mehta has 
been victimised . No proof has at all been offered by or on behalt of Shri Mehta 
to prove this allegatior nor has any suggestion to that effect been accepted by 
any of the management s witnesses. This point, therefore , falls . 

10 . The second point which Shri S . K . Mukherjee has argued is that the enguiry 
report is perverse. I have carefully gone through the enquiry report as well as 


Sec. 3 (ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV . 22 , 1969 /AGRAHAYANA 1, 1895129 


the entire evidence and I have formed the opinion that the report is well -reasoned , 
and perfectly sound . 

il , Shri S . K , Mukherjee has pointed out that, by a letter (Ext. W - 10 ) , Shri 
Mehta asked the Manager to make over to him one of the duplicate keys in order 
to enable him to make over charge, I do not quite see the importance of this 
letter because it is the admitted case of both parties that Shri Mehta did make 
over charge to Shri Shethia ultimately at about 3 - 15 P . M . in compliance with 
the Manager s orders given in writing on the stationery of Khas Dharmaband 
Colliery . It is also the admitted case of Shri Mehta that he did not make over 
charge of the cash to Shri Shethia in compliance with the oral order or the written 
order of the Manager, given on a slip of paper . That clearly makes out the 
first charge against Shri Mehta . I cannot accept the stand of Shri Mehta as 
correct if his stand is, as is apparent, that llegality and validity are attached to 
the Manager s orders only when he puts them down in writing and that too when 
he puts down his orders on the stationery of the colliery . Ext. W - 9 is the order 
in writing on the stationery of the colliery by the Manager to Shrl Mehta and he 
himself seems to have made an endorsement that he received it at 3 - 15 PM . The 
same letter contains an endorsement by the Manager that he had requested the 
cashier earlier by a written order on a slip to hand over charge of the cash . 

12 . The third point which Shri S . K . Mukherjee has raised is that the Manager s 
case in his evidence before the Tribunal is different from what it was in his 
evidence before the enquiring officer . Shri M . H . A . Mallick was examined before 
the Tribunal as M . W . 1 . At one stage in his evidence, he wished to give the 
entire story in brief. He then gave the time when Shri Mehta came to the 
colliery as having been 9 - 30 A - M . though the companies case before the enquiring 
officer was that he came to the colliery at about 8 - 30 A . M . I do not attach any 
importance to this time because Shri Mallick may have mentioned a wrong time 
before the Tribunal on account of failure of memory . His evidence before the 
Tribunal also differs from his previous evidence about the timing when he sent 
an cral message to Shri Mehta to hand over charge to M . N . Shethia . He, 
however, says before the Tribunal also that Shri Mehta refused to accept the 
oral message and , therefore , he (the Manager ) sent him a chit to the same effect. 
In these circumstances , I do not think that the Manager has made any material 
change in his evidence . 

13 . The evidence shows clearly that, because Shri Mehta asked in writing for 
permission to leave the colliery the Manager stated to him that he would given 
his reply also in writing . I do not think that the Manager was wrong in saying 
that he would give his reply in writing. Admittedly , Mehta went away from 
the colliery before he got written permission from the Manager to leave it. That 
being so , there can be no doubt that the second charge has also been established . 
In any case , I And that the enquiry has been held legally and properly . There 
was no infringement of natural justice at the enquiry. As I have already said , 
the conclusions of the enquiring officer are not perverse . In these circumstances, 
It is not open to me to interfere , Reference made in this connection to the 
Supreme Court s decision Mills Company Limited versus its workmen and 
another , reported in 1963 ( II) LL . J . 78 . 


14 . For the reasons given above, I have come to the conclusion that the action 
of the managernent of Khas Dharmaband Colliery in dismissing Shri Nabin 
Chandra J . Mehta , Accountant Cashier with effect from the 21st August , 1967 
was completely justified . He is, therefore , not entitled to any relleſ, 

15 . This is my award . Let it be submitted to the Central Government under 
section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

Sd . / - KAMLA SAHAI, 

Presiding Omcer . 
[No. 2 / 45 /68-LRII ] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 6th November 1989 
S . O . 4685. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Bhowra Colliery of Messrs 
Karam Chand Thapar and Brothers, Post Office Bhowra , District Dhanbad and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


5130 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOV , 22, 1969/ AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [PART II 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal, (No. 3 ), Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act. 

SCHEDOLE 
" Whereas the demand of the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , Dhanbad, for fixation 

of the grade of Sarvashri Deb Das Banerjee and Yogendra Prasad Singh , 
Lamp Room Incharge , Bhowra Colliery of Messrs Karam Chand Thapar 
and Brothers, Post Office Bhowra , District Dhanbad, in Grade I with 
effect from the 15th August , 1967 as recommended by the Central 
Wage Board for Coal Mining Industry is justified ? If so , to what 
relief are the workmen entitled ? 

[No. 2 / 60 / 89 -LR . II ] 


S . O . 4686 . – Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispuie 
exists between the employers in relation to the management of Jaipur Udyog Limited , Phalodi 
Quarry , Sawalmadhopur , and their workmen in resfect of the matters specified in the. Schedule 
hm - uto Annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 7A and clausc ( d ) 
of sub -section ( 1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , 1he CentralGov 
ernment hereby constirutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shri Gopal Narain Sharma Presidirg 
Officer, with headquarters at Jaipur and refer the said dispute for adjudicaljon 10 he said 
Tribunal, 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the employer in treating the following workmen as “ Casual" , cven after 

several years of continuous service , is Justified . If not, to whet relief arcthe workmen çnjitled ? 


Name 


Father s Name 


No. 


Designation Dutc from 

which 
working 


Kuli. 
Sweeper 


7 - 1 - 1964 
1 - 9 - 1964 
I - IO - 1904 


mununa 


Beldar . 


I Shrimati Ramdci 

Dhanni 
3 ShriGoverdhan 

ShriRamdas . 
Shri Bihari 
Shri Dharampal 
Shri Prabhudayal 

Shri Ramu 
9 Shri Chhorcsingh 
IO Shri Shanker 
II Shri Jagdish Singh 

ShriMurli 
Shri Nand Singh 
Shri Hanumansingh . 
Shri Raghunathsingh . 

Shri Moti 
17 Shri Ram Nath , 

Shri Harjidevi Ram . 
19 Shri Virendrasingh . 
20 Shri Bhuncwer Singh 
21 Shri Prabhu . 
22 ShriUmmesingh . 


Mohanlal 
· Dema. 

Natholi 
Nahulal 
Madho . 
Petbahadur, . 

Ram Dayal. . 
, Kaisa . , 

Kalyan Singh . 
Mooliya . . 
Ladu Singh 
Jaliya , 
Chhitar Singh 
Magan Singh 
Bhanwar Singh 
Baldey 
Soniya 
Chhitar Singh 
Mithu Singh 
Chhitar . " 
Chhitar Singh 


བགིགེཏེ 


1- 9 - 1964 
12 - 5 - 1964 
21- 11 - 1964 
16 - 6 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
24 - 12 - 1964 
19 - 2 - 1965 
I2 - 2 - 1964 
1 2 - 2 
5 - 12 - 1964 
II - 5 
20 - II 

12 - 5 - 1964 
IS - II - 1964 

15 - 3 - 1965 
26 - 5 - 1964 
II - 5 - 1964 


ti 


, 


i 


Beldar 


Sec . 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV, 22 , 1969 /AGRAHAYANA 1, 18 . 


131 


Beldar 


28 
29 


27 


Khanwar 
Gadiwan 
Beldar 


32 


23 Shri Sohanlal . 

Shri Amar Nath . . 
25 Shri Har Narain 

Shri Shiv Charan 
Shri Dwarkaprasad 
ShriMoti 

Shri Preetamsingh 
30 ShriMangu 
31 Shri Kaman 

Shri Hira . 
Shri Kishanlal 
Shri Ganesh 
Shri Jiva . 
Shri Juvara 

Shri Hira 
38 Shri Puran 
39 Shri Kanhaya , 
40 Shri Hira . 
41 Shri Dunga 
42 ShriRam Niwag 
43 Shri Keshra 
44 Shri Tejpal 
- 45 Shri Hajuri 
46 Shri Kanhaya , 
47 Shri Kajor 
48 Shri Ramswarup 
49 Shri Prabu 
50 Shri Gangaram . 
SI Shri Moolya . 
52 Shri Ramswarup 
53 Shri Jaganth . 
54 Shri Laddu : 
55 Shri Ramkalyan , 
56 Shri Pokhar , 
57 Shri Bhanwarlal 
58 Shri Bajranga . 
39 Shri Shobha 

Shri Kalyan 
61 Shri Keshra i 
62 Shri Hajari 
63 Shri Ramchandra 
64 Shri Bangi 

Shri Bhanwarlal 
Shri Chuniya 

Shri Kalyan 
68 Shri Bafran a 

Shri Gordhan , 
Shri Ram Nath . 
Shri Nanga 
Shri Goru 
Shri Jai Ram 
Shri Ram Phool . 
Shri Srikishan 
Shri Ghisa . i 
Shri Bajranga . 
Shri Ramhet . 
Shri Mangal , 

Shri Harchand . 
81 Shși Ram Kumar . 

Shri Ganesh 
83 Shri Moolchand . 
84 Shri Bhajan . . 
85 Shri Balka . 
86 Shri Tilak Singh . 
87 Shri Balu , 
88 Shri Gulab singh 


Gordhan 
Moolra } 
Sunder 
Kanhaya Lal 
Bengali Gupta 
Hardev 
Buta Singh . 
Chhoga 
Yusuf 
Shri Lal 
Hajari 
Manfool 
Prema 
Dharma 
Derga . 
Chhoga 
Goru 
Chania 
Maiyan 
Panchu 
Harji 
Chhoga 
Ganga Ram . 
Onkar . 
Vighniya . . 
Gulji 
Ramhet 

Ram Pal . 
. Radhakishan 

LaxmiNarain 
Bhanwar lal , 
Koriyan 
Kanwarlal 
Habari 
Kishanlal 
Onkar . 
Tulsa . 

Jiwan , 
, Ghasi , 

Soniya 
Bhura 
Hajari , 
Hiralal 
Dilipa . 
Bhura . 
Kujiya. 
Bajranga 
Narain 
Onkar 
Kani Ram . 
Bhairon 
Sukh Lal 
Sundra 
Mukundiya , 
Raghunath . 
Goriya 
Jai Kishan . 
Kana 
Kawanriya 
Aljun . 
Lakma 
Kajor . 
Praga , 
Sukh Ram 
Barghia 
Bansi Singh 


26 - 11- 1964 

I - 5 - 1965 
22 - 9 - 1964 
19 - 2 - 1969 
19 - 2 - 1965 
26 - 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
II - 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
27 - 3 - 1965 
4 - 6 - 1964 
4 - 6 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1994 
4 -11- 1964 
16 - 4 - 1965 
II- 5 - 1904 
II - 5 - 1904 
12 - 5 - 1904 
11- 5 - 1964 
13-6 - 1964 
11 - 5 - 1964 
12 - 5 - 1964 
II - 5 - 1964 

9 - 7 - 196 .4 
II - 5 - 1964 
II- 5 - 1964 
11- 5 - 1964 
26 - 9 -1964 
II- 5 - 1964 
12 - 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
26 -6 - 1964 
12 - 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
26 -6 - 1964 
12 - 5 - 1964 
II - 5 - 1964 
II - 5 - 1964 
II - 5 - 1964 
11- 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
16 - 6 - 1964 
16 - 6 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
II- 5 - 1964 
II - 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 -1964 
II- 5 - 1964 
16 - 6 - 1964 
16 - 6 - 1964 
16 - 6 - 1964 
12 - 6 - 1964 
13 - 6 -1964 
16 - 6 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
II - 6 - 1964 
16 - II - 1964 
12 - 5 - 1964 
25 - 6 - 1964 
16 - 6 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 


65 


SI32 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV , 22 , 1969 /AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [PARTI 


Belder 


89 Shri Mehilol 
90 " Shri Suraj Bhansingh . 
91 Shri Moti 
92 Shri Hajari 
93 ShriMohan 
94 Shri Kana 
95 ShriMukandsinghi 
96 Shri Chhitar 
97 Shri Jagdish 


nily 


. 


Shri Hira . 


99 Shri Laxman 
100 . ShriGokal . 
IOI ShriRamniwas , 
102 Shri Teja . 
103 Shri Magiya 
104 Shri Devilal 
IOS. Shri Kalyan 
щоб Shri Gokul 
101 Shri Kalu .. 
108 Shri Kanyan 
109 Shri Hatiya 
IIO Shri Suwa . 
III Shri Madansingh 
I12 Shri Goverdhan , 
I13 Shri Kishna . 
114 Shri Ramniwas 

Shri Subhashchandra . 
116 Shri Shanker 

Shri Hajari 

Shri Ram lal 
119 Shri Sukhji 
120 Shri Jagannath singh 
IZI Shri Ladu . 
IZZ Shri Hira . 
123 Shri Foolya 
124 Shri Sriram 
125 Shri Raja Ram . 
126 Shri Nanga 
127 Shri Dhanna Lal 


Ghurisingh 
Kesharsingh 
Chandra , 
Dhanna , 
Kumpa 
Ramnath 
Sultan Singh 
Kishan lal . 
Shivji 
Moolya 
Onkar 
Harphool , 
Bhairoon , 
Onkar 
Sukha 
Mangilal 
Devchand , 
Bhoora . 
Kishna 
Mangilal . 
Ravta 
Mewaram 
Samundrasingh 
Kalla . 
Pooniya 
Kana 
Ladda Ram 
Bhura 
Moolya , 
Moolya 
Moolya 
Onkarsingh 
Goriya 
Gangaram . 
Goriya 
Dhana 
Jagnath 
Handu 
LaxmiNarain 


26 - 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
II - S + 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 19647 
26 - 5 - 1964 
19 - 4 - 1964 
5 - I-I - 1964 
12 - 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
26 - 5 - 1964 
12 - 5 - 1964 
12 - 5 - 1964 
22 - 9 - 1964 
LI - 5 - 1964 
12 - 5 - 1964 

4 - 6 - 1964 
3 - 11- 1964 
II - 5 - 1964 
19 - 2 - 1965 
21- 9 - 1964 
12 - 5 - 1964: 
26 - 5 - 1964 
75 - 5 - 1964 
19 - 3 - 1969 
19 - 9 - 1964 
22 - 9 - 1964 
10 + I1 - 1964 
19 - 2 - 1965 
19- 2 - 1961 
19 - 2 - 1965 
19 - 2 - 1965. 

19 - 26 1965 
· 12 - 5 - 1964 

21 - 9 - 1961 


115 


HHHH van 


[No . 36 / 32 /69+ LRIV ) 


New Delhi, the 7th November 1969 
$ . O . 4687. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Singareni Collieries 
Company Limited , Post Office Kothagudium Collleries ( Andhra Pradesh ) and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specifled in the Schedule hereto anrexed ; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the sald 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and 
clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal 
with Shri Mohammad Najmuddin , as Presiding Omcer with headquarters at 
Afzal Lodge, Tilak Road , Ramkote , Hyderabad - 1 , and refers the said dispute for 
adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
" Having regard to the nature of duties: performed , the emoluments drawn 

and status enjoyed by Sarvashri Maka Venkanna , Jalli Bhushanam , 
Jithugu Venkanna, Rayadu Suranna and Nakka Suranna, Ex -Super 
visors of the Andhra Labour Force , how far the management of 
Singareni Collieries Company Limited , Kothagudium is justified in 
allotting to them the monthly grade of Rs. 165 — 230 under the 
recommendations of Central Wage Board for Coal Mining Industry . 
If not, to what relief are these workers entitled and from what date ? " 

[No. 7 / 11 / 69 - LRII. ] 


Sec . 3 (i ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV . 22 , 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5133 


$ . 0 . 4688 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Gondudih 
Colliery of Messrs Central Alkusa Colliery Company , Post Office Kusunda , 
District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the sald 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clausę ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 3 ) Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A 
of the sald Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of Gondudih Colllery of Messrs 

Central Alkusa Colliery Company , Post Omce Kusunda, District 
Dhanbad , in rendering idle Shri Achyutanand Mishra, Store -Keeper 
Magazine Incharge , with effect from the 2nd May , 1968 was justified ? 
If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? 

[No. 2 / 25 /69 -LR .JI. ] 


New Delhi, the 12th November 1969 
S . O . 4689. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Messrs 
Duduwala and Company (Private ) Limited, Mica Mine Owners , Bhilwara , and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 o. 1947) , 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shri Gopal 
Narain Sharma , as Presiding Omcer , with headquarters at Jalpur and refers the 
said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the resignation tendered by Shri Hiralal, Sorter , Toonka Mine on 

the 6th June, 1989 was voluntary and its acceptance by Messrs Dudu 
wala and Company , Mica Mine Owners. Bhilwara , was bona fide ? If 
not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? ” 

[No, 24 / 62 / 69 -LR .IV . ] 


S . O . 4690. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute . exists between the employers in relation to the management of Messrs Dudu 
wala and Company ( Private ) Limited , Mica Mine Owners , Bhilwara , and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore . in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub -section ( 1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shri Gopal 
Narain Sharma, as Presiding Officer , with headquarters at Jaipur and refes the said 
dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the resignation tendered by Shri Bhur Singh , Chowkidar , Toonka 

Mines on the 6th June , 1969 was voluntary and its acceptance by 
Messrs Duduwala and Company , Mica Mine Owners Bhilwara was 
bona fide ? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? " 

[ No. 24 /83/ 69 -LR . IV .] 
$ . 0 . 4691, — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Messrs 
Duduwala and Company (Private ) Limited , Mica Mine Owners, Bhilwara , and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


5134 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV. 22, 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 (PART II — 


And , whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause ( d ) 
of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) . 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shri Gopal 
Narain Sharma, as Presiding Officer , with headquarters at Jalpur and refers the 
Faid dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal, 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of Messrs Duduwala and Company, 

Mica Mine Owners , Bhilwara in terminating the services of Shri Salag 
ram , Black Smith , from their Tookka Mica Mine with effect from the 
18th June, 1969 was legal and justifled and if not, to what relief the 
workman is entitled ? " 

[No. 24 / 64 / 69-LR .IV . ] 


New Delhi, the 13th November 1969 
S . O . 4692 . Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Pure Sital 
pur Colliery , Post Office Ukhra , District Burdwan and their workmen in respect of 
the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annnexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the sald 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of Pure Sitalpur Colliery , Post Office Ukhra , 

District Burdwan was justified in stopping the following workmen 
from work from the dates shown against each and dismissing them 
with effect from 3rd September 1968 ? If not , to what relief are the 
workmen entitled ? 


Name of workmen 


Date of stoppage 


1. Shri Ram Prem Singh , Shot Firer . . 
2. Shri Ram Prsad Yadav, Line Mistry . . 
3. Shri Yogindar Singh , Friction Roller Mazdoor 
4 . Shri Mahadev Singh , Underground Trammer 


. 
. 
, 
. 


. . 
. . 

.. . 
. . 


16 - 5-1968. 
28- 5- 1968. 
16- 5-1968. 
16 -5- 1968." 


[No. 6 / 30 / 68 -LR . II. ] 


S . O . 4693. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Selected 
Samla Colliery , Post Office Pandaveshwar, District Burdwan , and their workmen 
in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV , 22 , 1969/ AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5135 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the demand of the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha, Raniganj for reinstate 

ment of the workers as given below with effect from the dates shown 
against each is justified ? 


Sl. No. Name of the worker 


Designa ion 


Date 


- - - 


- - - - 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


Chantasi 

Do. 
Do. 


v 


vanwNHOOOOOAWNA 


AAAAAAAAA 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


................. 


I Shri Ramatur Yadav 

Sudhiram Yadav 
3 » Amar Singh 

Bahadur Yadav 
Ramahari Singh 
Pahari Singh 
Rangan Singh 
Barai Pandey 
Rajkishori Singh 
Sitaram Dubey 
Mahesh Gore 
Raghahendra Singh 
Babual Singh 
Durga Prasad Tewari , 
Kashi Nath Singh 
Dinanath Chard 
Slærem Gope 
Sitala Ahir 
Şatdeo Singh 

Ahamed Mia 
ZI 

Shyam Behari Kohar 
Dingnath Kohar 
Sedannend Dhar 
Mahendra Yadav 
Ramaga Yadav 
Ram Chhghila Choubey 
Durbijoy Yadav 
Kedar Pandey 
Algo Mian 
Bhatan Tanti 
Tejendra Singh 
Rainchandra Yadav 
Madan Singh 
Sachen Singh 

Bang Bahadur Singh 
» Ramnath Nunia 


· 


· Do . 

Do. 
A /Sird 

Dc. 
L /Supr. 

Do, 

Do, 
Trammer 


20 - 5 -69 
20 - 5 - 69 
20 - 5 -69 
20 - 5 - 69 
20 - 5 -69 
20 - 5 -69 
2 - 5 -69 
20 - 5 -69 
20 - 5 - 69 
20 - 5 - 69 
20 - 5 -69 
20 - 5 -69 
20 - 5 - 69 
20 - 5 - 69 
15 - 5 -69 
15- 5 - 69 
21- 5 -69 
21- 5 - 69 
21 - 5 - 69 
21 - 5 - 69 
21 - 5 -69 
21- 5 -69 

- 5 -69 
21 -5 -69 
21- 5 -69 
21 - 5 - 69 
21- 5 - 69 
21 - 5 -69 
15 - 5 -69 
15 - 5 - 69 
15 - 5 -69 
20 - 5 -69 
18 - 5 -69 
18 - 5 -69 

2 - 6 -69 
21- 5 -69 


19 


20 


Do. 
Do. 


Do . 
Do. 


Do . 


رامماهخون 


............. 


મ 


Do . 
L /Mazdoor 
H /Khal 
Loader 

Do. 

Do. 
Chopresi 
L /Mazdoor 
Trammer 
Clerk 
Trammer 


. 


Ir so , to what relief are the workmen enlilled ? 


[No 6 / 74 /69 - LRII.] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 7th November 1969 
S . O . 4694 . - In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) 
No. S . O . 3562 dated the 27th August, 1969, published on page 3767 of the Gazette 
of India Part II, Section 3 , Sub - section ( lt) , dated the 6th September , 1969 , 
(i) in line 3 , for " Messrs Bengal Coal Company Limited " read “ Messrs 

New Beerbhoom Coal Company Limited " ; 
( ii ) in lines 14 and 15 . for the words “ Messrs Bengal Coal Company Limited " 
Tead "Meurs New Beerbhoom Coal Company Limited " . 

[No. 6 / 39 / 68-LRII .] 
P . C . MISRA , Under Secy . 


s126 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV . 22 , 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1 , 1891 [PART II 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 7th November 1909 


S . O . 4695 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - regulation ( 1 ) of regula 
tion 11 of the Metalliferous Mines Regulations, 1961, the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shri P . N . Vijaya Raghavan , Superintendent, Mysore / Champion Reer 
Amalgamated Mine , Kolar Gold Field , Ooragaum as member of the Board of Mining 
Exom )nationg vice Shri N . S . Claire resigned and make the following amendment in 
the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employ 
ment S .O . No. 2631 dated the 26th July , 1967 namely : 

In the said notification , for item 3 the following item shall be substituted , 
namely : - 
" Shri P . N . Vijaya Raghavan , Superintendent, Mysore /Champion Reet 
Amalgamated Mine, Kolar Gold Field , Ooragaum " . 

(No. 3 / 12 / 89-MI. ] 
J. D . TEWARI, Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 7th November 1969 
8 . 0 . 4696. - Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that 

( 1) Messers. Dina Nagar Adarsh Conduit Pipe Manufacturers . 

(2 ) Messrs. Dina Nagar Rubber Production Cooperative Society , 
were situated in Dina Nagar area which was a sparse area ( that is, an area whose 
insurable population was less than 500 ) in the District of Gurdaspur in the State of 
Punjab ; 

And , whereas by viture of their location in a sparse area , the aforegaid factories 
were granted exemption from the payment of the employer s special contribution 
under section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948 ) until 
enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area by the Central 
Government in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) 
No. S . O . 798 , dated the 8th March , 1966 ; 

And , whereas the Central Government is satisfled that the insurable population 
of the Dina Nagar area in the District of Gurdaspur in the State of Punjab has now 
exceeded 500 , and it is no longer a sparse area ; 

Now , therefore. in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the 
Employee s State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the said notifcation , namely : 
In the Schedule to the said notification , against serlal No. 3, the entry " Dina 

Nagar " in column 3 and the corresponding entries in column 4 shall 
be omitted 

[No. F . 8 / 68 / 69 -HI.] 


S . O . 4697. - Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that 

( 1 ) Messrs . Gupta Brothers Registered , 
( 2 ) Messrs. Northern India Rubber Mills , 
( 3 ) Messrs. Universal Indus . 

(4 ) Messrs. Bharat Indus. 
were situated in Dina Nagar area which was a sparse area , ( that is , an area whose 
insurable population was less than 500 ) in the District of Gurdaspur in the State of 
Punjab ; 

And , whereas by virtue of their location in a sparse area, the aforesaid factories 
were granted exemption from the payment of the employer s special contribution 
under section 73F of the Employee s Ştate Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) untii 
enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area by the Central 
Government in the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of 
Labo ır and Employment No . $ . Q . 135 , dated the 5th January , 1962 ; 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) 1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOV. 22 , 1969 /AGRAHAYANA I, 1891 5137 


And, whereas the Central Government is satisfled that the insurable population 
of the Dina Nagar area in the district of Gurdaspur in the State of Punjab has now 
exceeded 500 , and it is no longer a sparse area ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the 
Employee s State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the said notification , namely : - - 
In the Schedule to the said notification , against serial No. 5 , the entry " Dina 

Nagar " in column 3 and the corresponding , entries in column 4 shall be 
omitted . 

( No. F . 6 / 68 / 69-HI). 
S . O . 4698. -- -Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that Messrs Gupta 
Rubber Mills was situated in Dina Nagar area which was a sparse area (that is , 
an area whase Insurable population was less than 500 ) in the district of Gurdaspur 
in the State of Punjab ; 

And, whereas by virtue of its location in a sparge area, the aforesaid factory 
was granted exemption from the payment of the employer s special contribution 
under section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) until 
enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area by the Central 
Government in the notification of the Government of India in the late Department 
of Social Security No . S . Q . 3230 dated the 25th September , 1966 ; 

And ; whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the insurable population 
of the Dina Nagar area in the district of Gurdaspur in the State of Punjab has 
now exceeded 500, and it is no longer a . sparse area ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section : 73F of the 
Employees State Insurance Act. 1948 ( 34 a 1948 ), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the said notification , namely : -- 
In the Schedule to the said notifcation , against serial No. 5 , the entry " Dina 

Nagar" in column 3 and the corresponding entry in column 4 shall be 
omitted. 


[No. F . 6 / 88 / 89-HI. ] 


$ . 0 . 4699 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 737 of the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1943 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government having regard 
to the location of the factories specified in the Schedule hereto annexed in sfarse 
areas in the State of Orissa , hereby exempts the said factories from the payment 
of the employer s special contribution levlable under Chapter VA of the said Act 
for a period of one year from the date of publication of this notification in the 
Official Gazette or until the enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the 
said Act in those areas, whichever is earlier . 


SCHEDULE 


sl. 
No. 


Name of District 


Name of Arca 


Name of the Factory 


I Balasore 
2 Cuttack 


· Kantapal 

Jagatpur 


Kendrapara 


Shree Ram Chuda and Rice Mills . 
1. M /s. Tripty Drinks (P ) Ltd . 
2 . Shree LakshmiNarain & Sons 
Shri Baldey Jew Power Loom 
Weaver s Co.- op . Society , 
The Nowrangpur Saw Mill. 
M /s. Zonal Workshop (Danda 

karanya Project) . 


3 Koraput 


Nowrangpur 


Malkangiri 


5138 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV , 22 , 1969/ AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 (PART II 


4 Phulbani 
5 Sundergarh 


Phulbani 
Santoshpur 
Biramitrapur 
Sundergarh 


The Orissa Road Transport Co. 
M /s. Re-Rolling Mills. 
M /s. Mittal Biscuit & Company . 
The State Transport Workshop . 


[No . F . 8 / 12 /68-HI.] 
DALJIT SINGH , Under Secy , 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 7th November 1969 
S .O . 4700 . -- In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 . 
of 1947), the Central Government bereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal No . 3 , Dhanbad , in the Industrial dispute 
between the employers in relation to Cantonment Board , Dinapore and their work 
men , which was received by the Central Government on the 4th November , 1969 . 
THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No. 3 ) 

AT DHANBAD 

REFERENCE . NO. 37 OF 1969 
PRESENTS : 

Sri Sachidanand Sinha, M . A .M .L ., Presiding Officer. 
PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to the Cantonment Board , Dinapore. 


Vs, 


Their workman . 


APPEARANCES : 

For employers.- - Sri A , Bhattacharjee , Executive Officer 
For workmen . - Shri B . Sarkar, General Secretary . 


INDUSTRY : Cantonment Board. 

STATE : Bihar . 
Dhanbad , dated the 13th of October, 1969. 

AWARD 
1 . The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the Cantonment Board , Dinapore and their 
workman , by its order No. 9 / 10 / 68 -LRIII, dated the 24th of May , 1969 referred 
to this Tribunal under section 10 ( 1) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for 
adjudication the dispute in respect of the matters specified in the schedule annexed 
thereto . The Schedule is extracted below : - - 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the Cantonment Board Dinapore in terminating the 

services of Sri Chandrika Singh , Electrician , with effect from the 20th 
April, 1968 was justified ? If not, to what relief is the workman en 

titled ?" 
2 . The employers as well as the workman filed their respective written state 
ment. It is unnecessary to state the respective cases of the parties because the 
dispute has been settled . On the date fixed for hearing the parties turned up 
with a joint petition of settlement According to the terms of compromise Sri 
Chandrika Singh , Electrician will be reinstated within one month from the date 


Sec. 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZEITE OF INDIA ; NOV . 22 , 1969/ AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5139 

- - - - 
of publication of the award but he will not be entitled to get his way and allowances 
from the date of dismissal to the date of his reinstatement. He will be entitled 
to get the benefit of leave increment and other benefit of his service which will be 
Testored to him , 

% . The terins are satisfactory izid reasonable and are accepted . Accordingly 
an award is made in terms of the joint petition oỉ settlement, a copy of which is 
annexed with the award . It may be submitted to the Central Government under 
section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

( Sd .) SACHIDANAND SINILA , Presiding Officer . 

ANNEXURI A 
BEFORE HON BLE SACHIDANAND SINHA , PRESIDING OFFICER 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL - CUM -LABOUR COUT 

NO . 3 

REFERENCE NO. 37 OF 1969 
In the matter of Industrial Dispute between the Dinapore Cantonment 
Board (in relation to employer ) . 

Versus 
Their workinen , 
The management and the workmen represented by Shri Barun Sarkar, 

General Secretary , Dinapore Cantt. Board Workers Union has come 
to an amicable settlement on the above noted Industrial Dispute to 

maintain healthy relation between the employer and employee . 
Both parties most respectfully sheweth : 

1 . That Sri Chandrika Singh , Electrician will to reinstated within one month 
from the date of the publication of award . 

2 . He, Sri Chandrika Singh agrees to forge his pay and allowances from the 
date of dismissal to the date or joining duty and for which he will not claim on 
any future date . 

3 . He, Sri Chandrika Singh will get the benefit of leave increment and other 
benefit of his service which will be restored to him . 

4 . He, Sri Chandrika Singh undertakes to work faithfully and sincerely in the 
best interest of the Board . 

(Sd .) Illegible , 

Signature of workman . 
( Sd .) Illegible 

(Sd .) Illegible 
Executive Officer , 

Signature of General Secretary , 
Cantonment Board , 

Dinapore Cantt . Board Workers 
Dinapore Canti. 

Union . 
(No. 9 / 10 / 89 -LRIII (LRI). ] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 7th November 1989 
S . O , 4701. - - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Marine and General 
Insurance Company Limited , Calcutta and their workmen in respect of the matters 
Apecified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considere it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of gub 
Hection ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) . the 
Central Government hereby refers the sald dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act." 


5140 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV . 22, 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [PART II— 


BCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of Messrs Marine and General 

Insurance Company Limited , Calcutta , in terminating the services of 
Its employee Sk . Sahabbudin , Driver , with effect from the 28th April , 
1989, is justifled ? If not , to what relief Sk . Sahabuddin is entitled ? " 

[No. 40 / 15 / 69- L .R .- I- ] 


New Delhi, the 12th November 1989 
S . O . 4702 . Whereas an industriel dispute exists between the employers in rela 
tion to the Chartered Bank , Kanpur and their workmen represented by the U . P . 
Bank Employees Union , Kanpur ; 

And, whereas the said employers and workmen have, under sub - section ( 1 ) of 
Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , agreed to refer the 
dispute to arbitration by arbitration agreement and have forwarded to the Central 
Government under sub - section ( 3 ) of section 10A of the said Act a copy of the 
said arbitration agreement; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 10A of the said Act , 
the Central Govrenment hereby publishes the said arbitration agreement which was 
lecelved by it on the 6th November , 1969 . 


Agreement 
( Under Section 10 . A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947) 

BETWEEN 


Name of Parties : 

Representing employers : 
Bank , Kanpiir . 


Shri A . K . Kacker, Accountant, The Chartered 


Representing workmen ; 

Shri Harmangal Prasad , Secretary , U .P . Bank Employees Union , Kanpur Volt. 
It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following judustrial dispute 
to the arbitration of Shri V . P . Gupta , Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) , 
7 / 201 , Swaroop Nagar, Kanpur, 
(1) Specific matters in dispute : 
“ Whether the management of the Chartered Bank , Kanpur la justified in 

non - payment of Special Assistant allowance of Rs. 75 / - per month to 
Shri Mahendra Nath Nigam of the Chartered Bank , Kanpur from 22nd 
December 1968 and not to change his designation from Clerk to 
Speciai Assistant? I not, to what rellet the worlanan is entitled ? " . 


( 11) Detalls of the parties to the dispute including the name and address of the 
establishment or undertaklog involved . 

(8 ) The Manager, The Chartered Bank, The Mall, Kanpur. 
( 111) The name of the Union , if any, representing the workmen in question , 
(a ) The Secretary , U . P . Bank Employees Union , 30 / 8, Hata Ram Mohan , 

Kanpur. 
(iv ) Total number of workmen employed in the undertaking affected One. 

( v ) Estimated number of workmen affected or likely to be affected by the die 
pute - One. 

The decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on us . 
We further agree that --- 

in the case the arbitrators are equally 
divided in their opinion they shall appoint another person as umpire whose award 
shall be binding on us. 

The arbitrator phall make his award within a period of 31st March , 1970 or 
within such further time as is extended by mutual agreement between us in writing . 
In case the award is not made within the period a orementioned , the reference to 


Sac. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV . 22 , 1969 /AGRAHAYANA 1 , 1891 5141 


arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and we shall be free to negotiato 
for fresh arbitration . 
Representing employers . 

Representing workmen . 

(Sd.) HAR MANGAL PRASAD , 
(Sd.) A . K . KACKER , 27th October, 1969 . 

27th October, 1969 . 
Accountant, The Chartered Bank , 

Secretary , U . P . Bank 
The Mall , Kanpur. 

Employees Union , Kanpur 

Unit. 
Witnesses . 
1 . ( Sd .) Illegible 

2 . ( sd ) Illegible 
27th October, 1969 . 

27th October , 1969 . 

[No. 24 / 26 / 89 / LRIII. ] 


S . O . 4703, Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to the National and Grindlays Bank Ltd . Kanpur and their workmen re 
Presented by the U . P . Bank Employees Union Kanpur; 

And , whereas the said employers and workmen have, under sub - section ( 1 ) at 
Section 10 % of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), agreed to refer the 
dispute to arbitration by arbitration agreement and have forwarded to the Central 
Government under sub - section ( 3 ) of section 10A of the said Act a copy of the 
said arbitration agreement; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 10A of the said Act, 
the Central Government hereby published the said arbitration agreement which was 
received by it on the 6th November , 1969 . 

Agreement 
(Under Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 ) 

BETWEEN 
Names of Parties : 
Representing employers : 

Mr. A . N . Maclean , Manager, National and Grindlays Bank Limited , Kanpur . 
Representing workmen : 

Shri Harmangal Prasad , Secretary 

Shri S . N . Chakravarty , Vice - President, U . P . Bank Employecs Union , Kanpur. 
It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following Industrial dispute 
to the arbitration of Shri V . P . Gupta Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) , 
7 / 201 Swaroopnagar, Kanpur- 2 . 
(i) Speciflc matters in dispute . 
" Whether the management of the National and Grindlays Bank Limited , 

Kanpur is justified in withdrawing vide their letter dated 20th August 
1969 the present practice of night refreshment allowance paid in cash 
on each half - yearly closing to its workmen At Kanpur : If not, to 

what rellet the workmen are entitled ? " 
(II) Details of the parties to the dispute including the name and address of the 
establishment or undertaking layolved . 

1. The Manager, National and Grindlays Bank Limited, The Mall , Kanpur. 
( III) The Name of the Union , if any, representing the workmen in question . 

The Secretary , U . P . Bank Employees Union , 38 / 8 Hata Ram Mohan , Kanpur . 
(lv ) Total number of workmon employed in the undertaking affected . 99 . 
( v ) Estimated number of workmen affected or likely to be affected by the dis 

pute . 99 . 

The decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on us . 
We further agree that. . . . . .. . . . . . . in the case the arbitrators are equally divided 
in their opinion they shall appoint another person as umpire Those award shall be 
binding on us. 


5142 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV. 22, 1969 /AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 (PART II 


The arbitrator shall make his award within a period of 31st March 1970 or 
within such further time as 18 extended by mutual agreement between us in writing . 
In case the award is not made within the period aforementioned , the reference to 
arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and we shall be free to negotiate 
for fresh arbitration , 
( Sd .) A . N . MACLEAN , 

( Sd.) HARMANGAL PRASAD , 
representing employer. 

23rd October, 1980 . 
(Sd .) S . N . CHAKRAVARTY . 

representing the workinen . 
Witnesses : 
1 . (Sd.) Illigible 
2. (Sd .) Illigible. 

[No. 24 / 27 / 69 /LRIL ] 


New Delhi, the 13th November 1969 


S . O . 4704 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
disputo exists between the employers in relation to the Beas Darn Project and their 
workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which 
Shri P . P . R . Sawhney shall be the Presiding Officer , with headquarters at Chandi 
garh and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of the Beas Dam Project , Talwara was justified 

in dismissing Shri Gopi Chand Rana from service with effect from the 
23rd June, 1966 ? If not , to what relief is the workman entitled ? " 

[No. 4 / 22 /69 / LRIII. ) 


S . S . SAHASRANAMAN , Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 


New Delhi, the 12th November 1969 


8 . 0 . 4705 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Iron Ore Mines 
Labour Welfare Cess Act , 1961 (58 of 1961) read with clause ( lii) of rule 3 of the 
Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963, the Central Government, in con 
gultation with the Government of the State of Andhra Pradesh , hereby appoints 
Shri G . Bhupathy , Member of the Legislative Assembly , Andhra Pradesh , Nerella , 
Karimnagar District, to be a Member of the Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Fund 
Advisory Corimittee for the state of Andhra Pradesh , constituted by the notifca 
tion of the Government of India , in the Ministry of Labour , Employment and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) , No . S . O , 4260 dated the 
18th November, 1968, and makes the following amendment in the said notification , 
namely : 

In the sald notification , against serial number 3 , for the existing entries , the 
following entries shall be substituted, namely : 
" Shri G . Bhupathy, M . L . A ., Nerella , Karimnagar District, Andhra Pradesh " . 

- -Member of the Legislative Assembly . 


[No. F . 10 / 28 / 68 -M .III . ) 
C . R . NAIR , Under Socy . 


Se JC THE GAZETTE 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOV, 22 , 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 5143 


(Department of Labour and Employmeat) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 4th November 1969 
S . O . 4700 ,- - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Messrs 
Lima Leitao & Company Limited , Vasco- da -Gama and their workmen in respect 
of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal, (No. II), Bombay , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

THE SCHEDULE 
" ( 1 ) Whether the action of the management of Messrs Lima Leitao and 

Company Limited , Vasco -da-Gama in retrenching the following 
workmen with effect from 31st December , 1968 and 1st January , 1989 

is justifed ; 
(2 ) If not, to what relief they are entitled to 


Name 


Designation 


, 


, 


, 


1. R . J. Fernandes . 
1 . R . 1 : Fernandes , 
2 . S . Mergulha 
3 . Yes Wint Parsekar 
4 . R . N . Kalangutker 
5 . J. A . Rodrigues 
6 . John Fernandes 
7. Madanio Nunes . 
8 . M . L . Adarker . 
9 . Anthony Carvalho , 
Io . Sama Palkar . 
II. Domingos Souza , 
12. Menino A - phongo 


General Clerk . 
Accounts Clerk , 
Driver. 
Supervisor . 
Tally Clerk . 
Tally Clerk 
Tally Clerk . 
M / L Incherge . 
N / L Aggistant. 
Foremen 


Lauch Crew 


Tindel 
Driver . 
Sailor . 


1 . Laxman Chodnaker 
2 . Gurudas Custa Naik 
3 . Surya Vithal Potto 
4 . Ramachandra S . Naik 
5 . Vasudeo Parob 
6 . Tulsidas M . Corjuenker 
7 . Jenarathan C . Naik 
8 . Kasinath L . Seth 
9 . Sabs Jambo Mojo 


Tindel, 
Driver. 
Satlor . 


[No. 29 / 39 / 89 -LWI- III. ] 
C . RAMDAS, Dy. Secy , 


(Department of Rehabilitation ) 
(Оfice of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 11th November 1989 
8 . O . 4707. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub -Section 1 of Section 34 
of the Digplaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954 ) , 
the Central Government hereby directs that the powers exercisable by. It under 


5144 THE G , OF INDIA : NOV , 22 , 1969/ AGRAHAYANA 1, 1891 [PART II — Sec . 3 ( ii ).] 


Sub -Section 4 of Sections 24 , 28 and 33 of the said Act, shall be exercisable also 
by the Secretary to the Government of Haryana , Rebabilitation Department, in 
respect of proceedings pertaining to ( 1 ) Agricultural lands and shops in any rural 
area including houses, cattle sheds and vacant sites forming part of the Compen 
sation Pool, and (11) the properties referred to in the Notifcation of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Works, Housing and Rehabilitation (Department 
of Rehabilitation ) No. 3 ( 37 ) / L & R - 63A dated 5th March , 1964, situate within 
the State of Haryana , subject to the condition that he shall not exercise any of 
such powers in relation to any matter in which an order has been made him in 
any other capacity . 
This supersedes this office Notification dated 25thAugust / 2nd September , 1969. 

[No , F . 3 (2 )/ L & R / 69.7 
S . K . GANGOPADHYAY , Jt. Secy . 


PRINTED BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , MINTO ROAD , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1969 


