Goa , 17th September, 1964 


SERIES I No. 38 


All correspondence referring to announcements and 
subscription of Government Gazette must be addressed 
to its administration office: Literary publications will be 
advertised free of charge provided two copies are 
offered . 


BAT 


SUBSCRIPTION RATES - ASSINATURA 

YEARLY HALF - YEARLY QUARTERLY 

(Anual (Semestral) ( Trimestral) 
Al 3 series 

Rs. 40 / = Rs. 24 / Rs . 18 / 
(As 3 series ) 
I Series Rs. 20 / Rs. 12 / 

Rs. 9 / 
II Series Rs. 16 / 

Rs. 10 / 

Rs. 8 / 
III Series Rs. 207 

Rs. 12 ! - Rs. 9 / 
Postage is to be added when delivered by mail 
Acresce o porte quando remetido pelo correio 


Toda a correspondência relativa a anúncios e à assina 
tura do Boletim Oficial deve ser dirigida à Adminis 
tração da Imprensa Nacional. As publicações literárias 
de que 

receberem dois exemplares anunciam - se 
gratuitamente. 


se 


सत्यमेव जयते 


GOVERNMENT GAZETTE 


BOLETIM 


OFICIAL 


GOVERNMENT OF GOA , DAMAN 

AND DIU 


Legislature Department 


NO. LA / 763 /64 


The following Act passed by the Legislative As 
sembly of Goa , Daman and Diu received the assent 
of the President of India on the 2nd September 1964 , 
and is hereby published for general information . 


The Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Act, 1964 


. 


No. 4 of 1964 [2nd September, 1964 ) 
An Act to impose a tax on the sale of goods in Goa, 
Daman and Diu and to provide for matters connected 
therewith . 

Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of Goa , 
Daman and Diu in the Fifteenth Year of the Republic 
of India , as follows : -- 


Short title , extent and commencement , 

1. ( 1 ) This Act may be called the Goa , Daman 
and Diu Sales Tax Act, 1964. 

( 2 ) It extends to the whole of the Union Terri 
tory of Goa , Daman and Diu . 

( 3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the 
Government may , by notification in the Official Ga 
zette , appoint and different dates may be appointed 
for different areas or different goods . 


Explanation 2. A co -operative society or a club 
or any association of persons , which sells goods to 
its members is a dealer ; 

Explanation 3. A factor, a broker , a commission 
agent, a delcredere agent, an auctioneer or any other 
mercantile agent , by whatever name called , and 
whether of the same description as hereinbefore 
mentioned or not, who carries on the business of 
selling goods and who has , in the customary course 
of business , authority to sell goods belonging to a 
principal, is a dealer ; 

Explanation 4. The manager or an agent in Goa , 
Daman and Diu , of a dealer who resides outside Goa , 
Daman and Diu but carries on the business of selling 
goods in Goa , Daman and Diu shall, in respect of such 
business , be deemed to be a dealer ; 

( c ) " Goal, Daman and Diu " means the Union Ter 
ritory of Goa , Daman and Diu ; 

( d ) " goods" includes all materials , commodities 
and articles but does not include newspapers, action 
able claims, stocks , shares , securities or money ; 

( e ) " Government” means Government of Goa , 
Daman and Diu ; 

( f ) " manufacture" with all its grammatical va 
riations and cognate expressions means any process 
of producing, making , extracting, altering , ornament 
ing, finishing or otherwise processing , treating or 
adapting any goods ; 

( g ) " Official Gazette" means the Goa , Daman and 
Diu Gazette ; 

( h ) " prescribed ” means prescribed by rules made 
under this Act ; 

(i) " raw materials ” mean goods which go into and 
form part of the finished product and include mate 
rials which are consumed in the process of manu 
facture ; 

( 1) " registered " means registered under this Act ; 

( k ) " sale " with its grammatical variations and 
cognate expressions , means any transfer of property 
in goods by one person to another for cash or de 
ferred payment or other valuable consideration , and 
includes a transfer of goods on hire - purchase or 
other system of payment by instalments, but does 
not include a mortgage or hypothecation of or a 
charge or pledge on goods ; 


Definitions. 

2. In this Act , unless the context otherwise re 
quires , 

( a ) " Commissioner " means the Commissioner of 
Sales Tax appointed under sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 ; 

(b ) " dealer " means any person who carries on 
the business of selling goods in Goa , Daman and 
Diu and includes the Government of India , or of any 
State, or of any Union Territory . 

Explanation 1. A Hindu undivided family , a firm 
and any other association of persons whether in 
corporated or not will be deemed to be a person 
for the purpose of this definition . 


296 


SERIES I No. 38 


Explanation . — A sale or purchase of goods shall 
be deemed to take place inside Goa , Daman and 
Diu if the goods are within that territory - 

(i) in the case of specific or ascertained goods, 

at the time the contract of sale is made ; 

and 
( ii) in the case of unascertained or future 

goods, at the time of their appropriation 
to the contract of sale by the seller or by 
the buyer, whether assent of the other 
party is prior or subsequent to such appro 
priation ; 


. 


. 


(1) " sale- price ” means the amount payable to a 
dealer as consideration for the sale of any goods , 
excluding any sum allowed as cash discount accor 
ding to the practice normally prevailing in the trade , 
but inclusive of any sum charged for anything done 
by the dealer in respect of the goods at the time of 
or before the delivery thereof, other than the cost 
of freight or delivery or the cost of installation in 
cases where such cost is separately charged ; 

( m ) " turnover " used in relation to any period 
means the aggregate of the sale -prices or parts of 
sale prices receivable , or if a dealer so elects , ac 
tually received , by the dealer during such period 
after deducting the amounts, if any, refunded by the 
dealer in respect of any goods returned by the pur 
chaser within such period : 


liable to pay tax under this Act, on the expiry of 
two months from the date on which such gross turn 
over first exceeds the taxable quantum , on all sales 
effected after such expiry . 

( 3 ) Every dealer who has become liable to pay 
tax under this Act shall continue to be so liable 
until the expiry of three consecutive years , during 
each of which his gross turnover has failed to ex 
ceed the taxable quantum and such further period 
after the date of such expiry as may be prescribed , 
and on the expiry of this latter period his liability 
to pay tax shall cease. 

( 4 ) Every dealer whose liability to pay tax under 
this Act has ceased under the provisions of sub 
-section ( 3 ) , shall , if his gross turnover calculated 
from the commencement of any year again exceeds. 
the taxable quantum at any time within such year , be 
liable to pay such tax on the expiry of two months 
from the date on which such gross turnover again . 
first exceeds the taxable quantum on all sales effec 
ted after such expiry . 

(5 ) In this Act, the expression taxable quantum " 
means 

(a ) in relation to any dealer who imports for 

sale any goods into Goa , Daman and Diu 
or manufactures or produces any goods for 
sale, regardless of the value of the goods . 
imported , manufactured or produced , ten 

thousand rupees ; 
(b ) in relation to any other dealer , thirty thou : 

sand rupees : 


Provided that an election as aforesaid once made 
shall not be altered except with the permission of 
the Commissioner and on such terms and conditions 
as he may think fit to impose ; 

(n ) " year " means the financial year commencing 
on the first of April. 


Provided that if the Government is of opinion 
that having regard to the difficulty in maintaining 
accounts or other sufficient cause the taxable quan 
tum in respect of any class of dealers falling under 
clause , ( a ) should be increased , the Government may 
fix in respect of such class of dealers such taxable 
quantum , not exceeding thirty thousand rupees , as 
may be specified in the notification . 


C 


Taxing Authorities . 

3. ( 1 ) For carrying out the purposes of this Act , 
the Government may appoint a person to be Com 
missioner of Sales Tax , and such other persons to 
assist him as it thinks fit . 

( 2 ) Persons appointed under sub - section ( 1 ) shall 
exercise such powers as may be conferred , and per 
form such duties as may be required , by or under 
this Act . 

(3 ) All persons appointed under sub - section ( 1) 
shall be deemed to be public servants within the 
meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code . 


Liability after cancellation of registration . 

5. Any dealer whose certificate of registration 
granted under sections 11 , 12 , 13 or 14 has been can 
celled shall, if his gross turnover calculated from 
the commencement of any year or from any date 
within the year exceeds the taxable quantum at any 
time within such year , be liable to pay such tax on the 
expiry of two months from the date on which such 
gross turnover again first exceeds the taxable quan 
tum on all sales , effected after such expiry , of goods 
imported from outside Gca , Daman and Diu or 
manufactured therein . 


Incidence of tax . 

4. ( 1 ) With effect from such date as the Govern 
ment may, by notification in the Official Gazette , 
appoint , being not earlier than thirty days after the 
date of the said notification , every dealer whose 
gross turnover during the year immediately prece 
ding the commencement of this Act exceeded the 
taxable quantum shall be liable to pay tax under 
this Act on all sales effected after the date so ncti 
fied ; 


Liability of dealers registered under Central Sales 

Tax Act . 


Provided that a dealer who deals exclusively in one 
or more classes of goods specified in the second 
schedule shall not be liable to pay any tax under 
this Act . 

( 2 ) Every dealer to whom sub -section ( 1 ) does 
not apply , shall, if his gross turnover calculated 
from the commencement of any year exceeds the 
taxable quantum at any time within such year , be 


6. Every dealer shall, notwithstanding that he is 
not liable to pay tax under any of sub - sections ( 1 ) 
to ( 4 ) of section 4 or section 5 , be liable to pay tax 
under this Act so long as he is registered under 
the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 , on all sales effected 
by him or on his behalf within Goa , Daman and 
Diu on or after the date of his liability or the date 
of his registration , whichever is earlier, under the 
Central Sales Tax Act aforesaid ; 

Provided that no tax shall be payable in respect. 
of sales in any period prior to the commencement 
of this Act . 


way . 27. th.oh.Ngu 


17TH SEPTEMBER , 1964 


297 


$ 


Rate of tax . 

7. ( 1 ) The tax payable by a dealer under this Act 
shall be levied on the taxable turnover at the follow 
ing rates , namely : 
( a ) in respect of goods specified in the First 

Schedule, at the rate of ten paise in the 

rupee ; 
(b ) in respect of goods specified in the Third 

Schedule, at the rate of two paise in the 

rupee ; 
( c ) in respect of any other goods , at the rate 

of five paise in the rupee ; 
Provided that the Government may, by notifica 
tion in the Official Gazette , add to , or omit from , 
or otherwise amend the First and the Third Sche 
dules , without affecting the entries in the Second 
Schedule . 


Provided further that if in respect of any goods 
or class of goods the Government is of opinion that 
it is expedient in the interest of the general public 
so to do , it may , by notification in the Official Ga 
zette, direct that the tax in respect of the taxable 
turnover of such goods or class of goods shall , sub 
ject to such conditions as may be specified , be levied 
at such modified rate not exceeding the rate appli 
cable under this sub -section as may be specified in 
the notification . 

( 2 ) The Government or any other person autho 
rised in this behalf may permit dealers , in such 
circumstances and under such conditions as may be 
prescribed , to compound the tax assessable on their 
taxable turnover under the provisions of this Act 
by paying in lieu thereof a lump sum in such manner 
as may be prescribed . 

( 3 ) In this Act, the expression « taxable turnover > 
means that part of a dealer s gross turnover during 
any period which remains after deducting therefrom 
his turnover during that period on 


by the registered dealer to whom the goods 
are sold and containing the prescribed par 

ticulars in the prescribed form ; and 
( b ) in the case of sales falling within sub- items 

( ii) and ( iii) of item ( a ) , a certificate in 
the prescribed form from the dealer to 
whom the goods are sold , that the goods 
are purchased for re -sale in the course of 
inter- state trade or commerce or for re - sale 
in the course of export out of India or for re 
-sale after such export, and that such goods 
will be so re- sold by himself or by any 
other registered dealer to whom he re -sells 
the goods within nine months from the date 
of such purchase or such further period 

as may be prescribed : 
Provided further that where any goods specified 
in the certificate of registration are purchased by a 
registered dealer for any of the purposes specified 
in item (a ) , but are utilized by him for any other 
purpose , or are not re -sold in the manner and within 
the period prescribed , the price of the goods so pur 
chased shall be allowed to be deducted from the gross 
turnover of the selling dealer. but shall be included 
in the taxable turnover of the purchasing dealer ; 

( III) sales of goods which are specified by the 
Government under section 8 as goods taxable at the 
first point and which are made by any dealer other 
than the manufacturer or importer , provided that 
in the case of such sales proof of payment of tax 
at the first point is adduced to the satisfaction of 
the Commissioner . 

( IV ) sales to any undertaking supplying electrical 
energy to the public under a licence or sanction 
granted or deemed to have been granted under the 
Indian Electricity Act , 1910 , of goods for use by it 
in the generation or distribution of such energy ; 

( V ) sales of goods which are shown to the satis 
faction of the Commissioner to have been despatched 
by, or on behalf of the dealer to an address outside 
Goa , Daman and Diu ; 

(VI) such other sales as may be prescribed . 


( I) the sale of goods declared tax - free under sec 
tion 10 ; 


( II) sales to a registered dealer — 
( a ) of goods of the class or classes specified 

in the certificate of registration of such 
dealer , as being intended for — 
( i) re - sale by him within Goa , Daman and 

Diu ; 
( ii ) re -sale by him in the course of inter 

-state trade or commerce ; 
( iii) re -sale in the course of export out of 

India or re -sale after such export 

or ; 
( iv ) use by him as raw materials in the 

manufacture of goods for sale , and 


Point at which sales may be taxed . 

8. The tax payable under this Act shall be levied 
on the taxable turnover at the point of sale to the 
consumer or to a person other than a registered 
dealer : 

Provided that the Government may , by notifica 
tion in the Official Gazette , specify the first or any 
other point of sale in the series of sales of successive 
dealers, as the point at which any goods or class of 
goods may be taxed . 


Burden of proof. 

9. The burden of proving that in respect of any 
sale effected by a dealer he is not liable to pay tax 
under this Act shall lie on him . 


(b ) of containers or other materials for the 

packing of goods of the class or classes so 
specified for sale : 


Provided that no deduction shall be allowed unless 
the dealer who sells the goods furnishes in the pres 
cribed manner 
( a ) in the case of sales falling within sub - items 

(i ) and ( iv ) of item ( a ) and within item 
(b ) , a declaration duly filled up and signed 


Tax -free goods. 

10. ( 1 ) No tax shall be payable under this Act on 
the sale of goods specified in the Second Schedule , 
subject to the conditions and exception , if any, set 
out therein . 

( 2 ) The Central Government may, by notification 

he Gazette of India , add to , omit from or other 
wise amend the entries in the Second Schedule . 


- 


. 


298 


SERIES I No. 38 


Registration of dealers. 

( 2 ) The provisions of sub -sections ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) , (5 ) , 

( 7 ) and (8 ) of section 11 shall apply in respect of 
11. (1) No dealer shall, while being liable to pay applications for registration under this section . 
tax under section 4 of this Act, carry on business as 
a dealer unless he has filed an application in accord 

( 3 ) Every dealer who has been registered upon 
ance with sub -section (2 ) or has been registered and application made under this section shall , for so 
possesses a registration certificate under this Act . long as his registration remains in force, be liable 

to pay tax inder this Act. 
( 2 ) Every dealer required by sub -section ( 1 ) to 
be registered shall make application in this behalf 

(4 ) The registration of a dealer upon application 
in the prescribed manner and within the prescribed 

made under this section shall be in force for a period 
time to the prescribed authority . 

of not less than three complete years and shall 

remain in force thereafter unless cancelled under 
(3 ) If the said authority is satisfied that the ap the provisions of this Act. 
plication for registration is in order , he shall, in 
accordance with such rules as may be prescribed , 

(5 ) Subject to the provisions of sub -section (4 ) , 
register the applicant and grant him a certificate 

a dealer registered upon application made under this 
of registration in the prescribed form which shall section may apply in the prescribed manner not less 
specify all his places of business and the class or 

than six months before the end of a year to the 
classes of goods, for the purpose of clause (II) of 

authority which granted him a certificate of regis 
sub -section (3 ) of section 7 . 

tration for the cancellation of such registration to 

take effect at the end of the year in which the appli 
(4 ) The prescribed authority may from time to cation for such cancellation is made ; and the said 
time amend any certificate of registration in accord . authority shall, unless the dealer is liable to pay 
ance with information furnished under section 23 or tax under section 4 , cancel the registration accord 
otherwise received . 

ingly . 
(5 ) The Commissioner may , for good and suffi 
cient reasons, demand from a registered dealer or 

Provisional registration . 
from a person who has applied for registration under 

13. ( 1 ) Any person who intends to establish a 
this Act : 

business in Goa , Daman and Diu for the purpose 
( i) reasonable security for the proper payment of manufacturing or producing goods of a value 

of tax payable by him under this Act ; exceeding ten thousand rupees per year , may , not 
( ii) reasonable security for the proper custody 

withstanding that he is not required to register 
and use of the forms referred to in the first 

himself under section 11 , apply in the prescribed 
proviso to clause ( II ) of sub - section (3 ) of 

manner to the prescribed authority for provisional 
section 7 which may be given to him by 

registration under this Act. 
the prescribed authority . 

( 2 ) If the said authority , after making such 

inquiries as it may consider necessary , is satisfieu 
(6 ) When any dealer has been convicted or has as to the bona fide intention of the person making 
paid composition money under section 32 , in respect the application , it may grant a provisional certifi 
of any contravention of sub -section ( 1 ) of this sec cate of registration on such person furnishing such 
tion , the prescribed authority shall register such security as it may consider necessary and shall 
dealer and grant him a certificate of registration , specify in such certificate the class or classes of 
and such registration shall take effect as if it had goods for the purposes of clause ( II) of sub -section 
been made under sub -section ( 3 ) of this section on ( 3 ) of section 7 . 
the dealer s application . 

( 3 ) Every person who has been granted a provi 
( 7 ) When 

sional certificate of registration under this section 

shall, for so long as such certificate is in force , be 
(a ) any business in respect of which a certifi liable to pay tax under this Act . 

cate has been granted to a dealer on an 
application made, has been discontinued or 

( 4 ) A provisional certificate of registration gran 
transferred , or 

ted under this section shall be in force for such 

period as may be specified therein and the provisions 
(b ) a dealer has ceased to be liable to pay tax 

of sub -sections ( 4 ) , ( 7 ) and (8 ) of section 11 shall , 
under section 4 of this Act , 

so far as may be, apply to any such certificate of 
the Commissioner shall cancel the registration . registration . 


( 8 ) The Commissioner may at any time for rea 
sons to be recorded in writing and after giving the 
dealer an opportunity of being heard , cancel any 
certificate of registration . 


Voluntary registration . 

12. ( 1 ) Any dealer other than a dealer who deals 
exclusively in one or more classes of goods specified 
in the Second Schedule , whose gross turnover during 
a year exceeds ten thousand rupees may, notwith 
standing that he may not be liable to pay tax under 
section 4 , apply in the prescribed manner to the 
prescribed authority for registration under this 
Act . 


Special registration . 

14. ( 1 ) No dealer shall , while being liable to pay 
tax under section 5 , carry on business as a dealer 
- unless he has applied for a special certificate of regis 
tration . 

( 2 ) Every dealer required by sub -section (1 ) to: 
be registered shall make an application in this behalf 
in the prescribed manner to the prescribed authority . 

( 3 ) If the said authority is satisfied that the 
application for special certificate is in order , it shall , 
in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed , 
grant a special certificate to the applicant in the 
prescribed form : 


WWW.AS. WAV............. 2.2 . XV W... My ontwort 


17TH SEPTEMBER , 1964 


299 


Provided that the special certificate shall not 
specify the class or classes of goods for the purposes 
of clause ( II ) of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 7 . 

(4 ) The prescribed authority may from time to 
time amend any special certificate in accordance with 
the information furnished under section 23 or other 
wise received by him . 

(5 ) The provisions of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
4 and sub - sections (6 ) and ( 7 ) of section 11 shall 
apply for registration under this section . 


Payment of tax and returns. 

15. ( 1 ) Tax payable under this Act shall be paid 
in the manner hereinafter provided at such intervals 
as may be prescribed. 

(2 ) Such dealers as may be required so to do by 
the Commissioner by notice served in the prescribed 
manner and every registered dealer shall furnish such 
returns by such date and to such authority as may 
be prescribed . 

(3 ) Before any registered dealer furnishes the re 
turns required by sub -section ( 2 ) , he shall pay into a 
Government treasury or the Reserve Bank of India 
or in such other manner as may be prescribed the 
full amount of tax due from him under this Act 
according to such returns , and shall furnish along 
with the returns a receipt from such Treasury or 
Bank showing the payment of such amount . 

(4 ) If any dealer discovers any omission or other 
error in any return furnished by him , he may at 
any time before the date prescribed for the furnishing 
of the next return by him furnish a revised return ; 
and if the revised return shows a greater amount 
of tax to be due than was shown in the original 
return , it shall be accompanied by a receipt showing 
payment in the manner provided in sub -section (3 ) 
of the extra amount. 

(5 ) With a view to encourage prompt payment 
of tax , the Government may prescribe rates of 
remmissions or rebates in respect thereof in accord 
ance with such principles as may be prescribed . 


without reasonable cause, direct that the dealer 
shall pay by way of penalty in addition to the amount 
of the tax so assessed a sum not exceeding one and 
a half times that amount. 

( 2 ) If upon information which has come into his 
possession , the Commissioner is satisfied that any 
dealer , has been liable to pay tax under this Act 
in respect of any period but has failed to get himself 
registered , the Commissioner shall proceed in such 
manner as may be prescribed to assess to the best 
of his judgment the amount of tax due from the 
dealer in respect of such period and all subsequent 
periods and in making such assessment shall give the 
dealer a reasonable opportunity of being heard ; and 
the Commissioner may, if he is satisfied that the 
default was made without reasonable cause , direct, 
that the dealer shall pay by way of penalty in addi: 
tion to the amount of tax so assessed a sum not 
exceeding one and a half times that amount. 

( 3 ) No assessment under sub - section ( 1 ) shall be 
made after the expiry of four years and no assess 
ment under sub -section ( 2 ) shall be made after the 
expiry of six years from the end of the year in res 
peci of which or part of which the assessment is 
mađe : 

Provided that where such assessment is made in 
consequence of or to give effect to any order of an 
appellate or revisional authority or of a court, the 
period of four years or six years , as the case may 
be, shall be reckoned from the date of such order . 


( 4 ) The amount of tax 
( a ) due where the returns are furnished without 

receipt showing full payment thereof , or 
(6 ) assessed under sub - section ( 1 ) , less the 

sum , if any , already paid by the dealer in 

respect of the said period , or 
( c ) assessed under sub -section ( 2 ) , 


5 


Collection of tax only by registered dealers . 

16. No person who is not a registered dealer shall 
collect in respect of any sale by him of goods in Goa , 
Daman and Diu any amount by way of tax under 
this Act and no registered dealer shall make any 
such collection except in accordance with this Act 
and the rules made thereunder . 


Assessment of tax . 


17. ( 1 ) If no returns are furnished by a registered 
dealer in respect of any period by the prescribed 
date , or if the Commissioner is not satisfied that 
the returns furnished are correct and complete , the 
Commissioner shall , within three years after the 
expiry of such period , proceed in such manner as 
may be prescribed to assess to the best of his judg 
ment the amount of the tax due from the dealer 
and in making such assessment shall give the dealer 
a reasonable opportunity of being heard ; and in the 
case of failure by a registered dealer to submit in 
respect of any period , a return accompanied by a 
receipt from a Government Treasury or the Reserve 
Bank of India as required under sub -section ( 3 ) of 
section 15 , by the prescribed date , the Commissioner 
may, if he is satisfied that the default was made 


shall, together with any penalty that may be directed 
to be paid under any of the provisions of this section , 
or section 31 , be paid by the dealer into a Govern 
ment Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India or in 
such other manner as may be prescribed by such 
date as may be specified in a notice issued by the 
Commissioner for this purpose and the date to be 
so specified shall be not less than sixty days from 
the date of service of such notice : 

Provided that the Commissioner may , in respect 
of any particular dealer and for reasons to be re 
corded in writing, extend the date of such payment 
or allow such dealer to pay the tax due and the 
penalty , if any by instalments . 

(5 ) When a dealer is in default in making pay 
ment of the tax , the Commissioner or any person 
appointed to assist him under sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 , may in his discretion direct that, in addi 
tion to the amount of the arrears , a sum not exceed 
ing six per cent thereon per annum by way of interest 
plus a penalty equal to the amount of such interest 
shall be recovered from the dealer. 

(6 ) Any amount of tax or penalty which remains 
unpaid after the date specified in the said notice , 
shall be recoverable as an arrear of land revenue 
under the law for the time being in force in that 
behalf . 

( 7 ) Any assessment made under this section shall 
be without prejudice to any prosecution instituted 
for an offence under this Act . 


. 


Mini Rww.tw 

WOROWE 


300 


SERIES I No. 38 


Assessment and reassessment of tax 

18. If in consequence of definite information which 
has come into his possession the Commissioner is 
satisfied that the turnover of the business of a dealer 
has escaped assessment or has been under - assessed 
in any year , the Commissioner may , at any time 
within the period of five years following the close 
of the year for which the turnover is proposed to be 
assessed or re - assessed , as the case may be , send a 
notice to the dealer , and after hearing him and ma 
king such inquiry as he considers necessary ,may pro 
ceed to assess or re -assess , as the case may be , the 
tax payable on the turnover which has escaped as 
sessment or has been under - assessed , and all the 
provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder 
shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly for the 
purpose of the assessment or re -assessment of the 
tax , as the case may be . 


veries of goods by , and all goods kept in any 
place of business of, any dealer , shall , at all reason 
able times , be open to inspection by the Commis 
sioner . 

( 3 ) If the Commissioner has reason to suspect 
that any dealer is attempting to evade payment of 
any tax under this Act, he may , for reasons to be 
recorded in writing, seize such accounts , registers or 
documents of the dealer as may be necessary , and 
shall grant a receipt for the same and shall retain 
the same only for so long as may be necessary in 
connection with any proceeding under this Act or 
for a prosecution .. 

(4 ). For the purposes of sub - section (2 ) or sub 
-section ( 3 ) the Commissioner may enter and search 
any place of business of any dealer , or any other 
place where the Commissioner has reason to believe . 
that the dealer keeps or is for the time being keep 
ing any accounts , registers or documents of his 
business : 

Provided that no residential premises shall be 
entered into and searched by the Commissioner , 
except on the authority of a search warrant issued . 
by a magistrate having jurisdiction over the area . 


Refund . 

19. ( 1 ) The Commissioner shall , in the prescribed 
manner , refund to a dealer applying in this behalf 
any amount of tax or penalty paid by such dealer 
in excess of the amount due from him under this 
Act , either by cash payment or , at the option of the 
dealer , by deduction of such excess from the amount 
of tax due in respect of any other period : 

Provided that no refund shall be made unless the 
claim for refund is made within twelve months 
from the date of the assessment of tax or the date 
of the imposition of penalty or within six months 
from the date of any final order passed on appeal, 
revision or review under section 28, whichever period 
expires later . 

( 2 ) Nothing in sub - section ( 1 ) shall be deemed to 
empower the Commissioner to amend , vary or rescind 
any assessment or to amend , vary or rescind any 
order passed on appeal, revision or review under sec 
tion 27 or reference under section 28 or to confer on 
a dealer any relief in addition to what he is entitled 
under the provisions of this Act . 


Delegation of Commissioner s powers. 

22. Subject to such restrictions and conditions as 
may be prescribed , the Commissioner may by order 
in writing delegate any of his powers under this 
Act except those under sub - secticn ( 2 ) of section 30 
to any person appointed under section 3 to assist him . 


Accounts , 

20. Every registered dealer or other dealer on 
whom a notice has been served to furnish returns 
under sub- section ( 2 ) of section 15 , shall keep a true 
account of the value of goods bought, and sold by 
him , and if the Commissioner considers that such 
account is not sufficiently clear and intelligible to 
enable him to make a proper check of the returns 
referred to in that sub - section , he may require such 
dealer by notice in writing to keep such accounts 
( including records of sales ) as may be prescribed . 


Information regarding changes of business. 

23. If any dealer to whom the provisions of sub 
-section ( 2 ) of section 15 apply , - 
( a ) sells or otherwise disposes of his business 

or any part of his business or any place of 
business, or effects or comes to know of 
any other change in the ownership of the 

business , 
( b ) discontinues his business or changes his 

place of business or opens a new place of 

business , ar 
( c ) changes the name or nature of his business . 

or effects any change in the class or classes . 
of goods in which he carries on his business 
and which is or are specified in his certi 

ficate of registration , 
he shall within the prescribed time inform the pres 
cribed authority accordingly , and if any such dealer 
dies , his legal representative , shall in like manner , 
inform the said authority . 


Power to call for information etc., to search and to 

seize documents etc. 

21. ( 1 ) The Commissioner may, subject to such 
conditions as may be prescribed , require any dealer 
( a ) to produce before him any accounts, re 

gisters or documents and 
(b ) to furnish any information , relating to the 

stock of goods of , purchases, sales or deli 
veries of goods by, the dealer or relating to 
any other matter , as may be deemed neces 
sary for the purpose of this Act . 


Special provision regarding liability in certain cases.. 

24. ( 1 ) Where a dealer, liable to pay tax under 
this Act, dies then , 
( a ) if the business carried on by the dealer is . 

continued after his death by his legal re 
presentative or any other person , such 
legal representative or other person , shali . 
be liable to pay the tax due from such 

dealer under this Act, and 
( b ) if the business carried on by the dealer is : 

discontinued after his death his legal re 
presentative shall be liable to pay out of 
the estate of the deceased , to the extent 
to which the estate is capable of meeting: 


( 2 ) All accounts , registers and documents relating 
to the stocks of goods of, or purchase, sales and deli 


per 


VINA 


4 -w71% w W. -Sn... Contacts 


pora 


17TH SEPTEMBER , 1964 


301 


.. 


the charge, the tax (including any penalty ) 
due from such dealer under this Act, 


whether such tax (including any penalty ) has been 
assessed before his death but has remained unpaid , 
or is assessed after his death . 


Liability of firms. 

25. Notwithstanding any contract to the contrary , 
where any firm is liable to pay tax ( including any 
penalty ) under this Act, the firm and each of the 
partners of the firm shall be jointly and severally 
liable for such payment : 

Provided that, where any such partner retires from 
the firm , he shall be liable to pay the tax and the 
penalty ( if any ) remaining unpaid at the time of his 
retirement, and any tax (including any penalty ) due 
upto the date of retirement though unassessed at that 
date. 


Bar to certain proceedings . 

26. Save as is provided in section 28 , no assessment 
made and no order passed under this Act or the rules 
made thereunder by the Commissioner or any person 
appointed under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 to assist 
him shall be called in question in any Civil Court , 
and save as is provided in section 27 , no appeal or 
application for revision or review shall lie against 
any such assessment or order . 


1 


(2 ) Where a dealer , liable to pay tax under this 
Act, is a Hindu undivided family , and the joint family 
property is partitioned amongst the various members 
or groups of members, then each member or group 
of members shall be jointly and severally liable to 
pay thc tax (including any penalty ) due from the 
dealer under this Act , upto the time of the partition , 
whether such tax (including any penalty ) has been 
assessed before partition but has remained unpaid , 
or is assessed after partition . 

( 3 ) Where a dealer , liable to pay tax under this 
Act , is a firm , and the firm is dissolved , then every 
person who was a partner shall be jointly and seve 
rally liable to pay to the extent to which he is liable 
under section 25 , the tax (including any penalty ) due 
from the firm under this Act, upto the time of disso 
lution , whether such tax ( including any penalty ) has 
been assessed before such dissolution but has re 
mained unpaid , or is assessed after dissolution . 

( 4 ) Where a dealer , liable to pay tax under this 
Act, transfers or otherwise disposes of his business 
in whole or in part , or effects any change in the 
ownership thereof, in consequence of which he is 
succeeded in the business or part thereof by any 
other person , the dealer and the person succeeding 
shall jointly and severally be liable to pay the tax 
(including any penalty ) due from the dealer under 
this Act, upto the time of such transfer , disposal or 
change , whether such tax (including any penalty ) 
has been assessed before such transfer , disposal or 
change but has remained unpaid , or is assessed there 
after . 

(5 ) Where the dealer , liable to pay tax under this 
Act 

( a ) is the guardian of a ward on whose behalf the 
business is carried on by the guardian , or 

( b ) is a trustee who carries on the business under 
a trust for a beneficiary , 
then , if the guardianship or trust is terminated , the 
ward or, as the case may be , the beneficiary shall be 
liable to pay the tax ( including any penalty ) due from 
the dealer up to the time of termination of the guar 
dianship or trust, whether such tax ( including any 
penalty ) has been assessed before the termination of 
the guardianship or trust , but has remained unpaid , 
or is assessed thereafter . 

(6 ) Where a dealer, liable to pay tax under this 
Act, is succeeded in the business by any person in the 
manner described in clause ( a ) of sub -section ( 1 ) or 
in sub - section ( 4 ) , then such person shall be liable 
to pay tax on the sales of goods made by him on and 
after the date of such succession , and shall (unless 
he already holds a certificate of registration ) within 
30 days thereof apply for registration : 


Appeal, revision and review . 

27. ( 1 ) Any dealer may in the prescribed manner 
appeal to the prescribed authority against any assess 
ment within sixty days or such further period as may 
be allowed by the Commissioner for cause shown to 
his satisfaction , from the receipt of a notice issued 
under sub -section ( 4 ) of section 17 in respect there 
of : 

Provided that no appeal shall be entertained by 
the said authority unless he is satisfied that such 
amount of the tax as the appellant may admit to 
be due from him has been paid . 

( 2 ) Subject to such rules of procedure as may be 
prescribed , the appellate authority , in disposing of 
any appeal under sub - section ( 1 ) , may - 
( a ) confirm , reduce , enhance or annul the as 

sessment, or ; 
(6 ) set aside the assessment and direct the as 

sessing authority to make a fresh assess 
ment after such further inquiry as may be 
directed . 


( 3 ) Subject to such rules as may be prescribed and 
for reasons to be recorded in writing, the Commis 
sioner upon application or of his own motion may 
revise any assessment made or order passed under 
this Act or the rules made thereunder by a person 
appointed under section 3 to assist him , and subject 
as aforesaid , the Government may, in like manner , 
revise any order passed by the Commissioner : 

Provided that before rejecting any application for 
the revision of any such order the Commissioner or 
the Government, as the case may be , shall consider 
it and shall record reasons for such rejection : 

Provided further that no application for revision 
shall lie to the Commissioner in respect of any as 
sessment if an appeal lies under sub -section ( 1 ) to 
the prescribed authority in respect of such assess 
ment . 

(4 ) Subject to such rules as may be prescribed , 
any assessment made or order passed under this Act 
or the rules made thereunder by any person appoin 


Provided that, where such person re- sells any goods 
purchased by the dealer while carrying on business 
before such succession , he shall be entitled to such 
deductions in respect thereof as are permissible under 
sub - section (3 ) of section 7 , had the re - sale been 
effected by the dealer himself . 


302 


SERIES I NO. 38 


ted under section 3 may be reviewed by the person 
passing it upon application or of his own motion . 

(5 ) Before any order is passed under this section 
which is likely to affect any person adversely , such 
person shall be given reasonable opportunity of 
being heard . 


Explanation : - In this section « assessment» in 
cludes imposition of penalty . 


the law relating to Civil Procedure for the time being 
in force in Goa, Daman and Diu , when trying a suit , 
in respect of the following matters , namely : 
( a ) enforcing the attendance of any person and 

examining him on oath or affirmation ; 
(6 ) compelling the production of documents ; 

and 
( c ) issuing commissions for the examination of 

witnesses ; and any proceeding under this 
Act before the Commissioner or any person 
appointed to assist him under suk - section 
( 1 ) of section 3 shall be deemed to be a 
judicial proceeding within the meaning of 
sections 193 and 228 , and for the purposes 
of section 196 , of the Indian Penal Code . 


Statement of case to Court. 

28. ( 1) Within sixty days from the passing by 
the Government of any order under sub - section ( 3 ) 
of section 27 affecting any liability of any dealer 
to pay tax under this Act, such dealer may , by appli 
cation in writing, and accompanied by a fee of one 
hundred rupees , require the Government to refer to 
the Court any question of law arising out of such 
order . 

(2 ) If , for reasons to be recorded in writing, the 
Government refuses to make such reference , the 
applicant may , within thirty days of such refusal. 
either 
( a ) withdraw his application (and if he does so , 

the fee paid shall be refunded ) , or 
(b ) apply to the Court against such refusal. 


( 2 ) Subject to any rules made in this behalf , any 
authority referred to in sub -section ( 1 ) may im 
pound and retain in its custody for such period as 
it thinks fit, any books of account or other docu 
ments produced before it, in any proceedings under 
this Act : 


- 


Provided that a person appointed to assist the 
Commissioner under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 
shall not 
( a ) impound any books of account or other 

documents without recording his reasons 

for so doing ; or 
( b ) retain in his custody any such books or do 

cuments for a period exceeding thirty days 
without obtaining the approval of the Com 
missioner therefor . 


... 


( 3 ) If upon the receipt of an application under 
clause (b ) of sub - section ( 2 ) , the Court is not satis 
fied of the correctness of the Government s decision , 
it may require the Government to state the case and 
refer it, and on the receipt of such requisition , the 
Government shall state and refer the case accord 
ingly . 

( 4 ) If the Court is not satisfied that the state 
ments in a case referred under this section are suf 
ficient to enable it to determine the question raised 
thereby, it may refer the case back to the Govern 
ment to make such additions thereto or alterations 
therein as the Court may direct in that behalf . 
(5 ) The Court upon 

hearing any 

such case 
shall decide the question of law raised therein , and 
shall deliver its judgment thereon containing the 
grounds on which such decision is founded , and 
shall send a copy of its judgment to the Government 
which shall pass such orders as are necessary to 
dispose of the case conformably to such judgment. 

(6 ) Where a reference is made to the Court under 
this section , the costs shall be in the discretion of the 
Court. 

( 7 ) The payment of the amount , if any, of tax due 
in accordance with the order of the Government in 
respect of which an application has been made under 
sub -section ( 1 ) shall not be stayed pending the dis 
posal of such application or any reference made in 
consequence thereof , but if such amount is reduced 
as the result of such reference, the excess tax paid 
shall be refunded in accordance with the provisions 
of section 19 . 

(8 ) In this section , « Court » means the Court of 
the Judicial Commissioner, Goa , Daman and Diu . 


Offences and penalties . 
30. ( 1 ) Whoever 
( a ) carries on business as a dealer in contra 

vention of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 11 ; or 
( b ) fails , without sufficient cause , to submit any 

return as required by .sub- section ( 2 ) of 

section 15 or submits a false return ; or 
( C ) being a registered dealer , falsely represents 

when purchasing any class of goods, that 
goods of such class are covered by his certi 

ficate of registration ; or 
( d ) not being a registered dealer , falsely repre 

sents when purchasing goods that he is a 

registered dealer ; or 
( e ) contravenes the provisions of section 16 ; or 
( f) fails, when required so to do under section 

20 , to keep prescribed accounts or records 

of sales ; or 
( g ) refuses to comply with any requirement 

made of him under sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 

tion 21 ; cr 
( h ) knowingly produces incorrect accounts , re 

gisters or documents , or knowingly furnis 

hes incorrect information ; or 
( i ) obstructs any officer making an inspection 

or a search or a seizure under section 21 ; or 
( j) neglects to furnish any information required 

by section 23 ; 


Powers of Commissioner etc. in certain matters . 

29. ( 1 ) The Commissioner or any person ap 
pointed to assist him under sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 3 shall, for the purposes of this Act, have the 
same powers as are vested in a Civil Court under 


shall be punishable with simple imprisonment which 
may extend to six months or with fine or with both , 
and when the offence is a continuing one, with a 
daily fine not exceeding fifty rupees during the pe 
riod of the continuance of the offence : 


> 


www.V.191 415 


AxeEXPOSAMEGTUKUZATS 


1 


17TH SEPTEMBER , 1964 


303 


i 


Provided that no prosecution for an offence aga 
inst this Act shall be instituted in respect of the 
same facts in respect of which a penalty has been 
imposed under section 17 or section 31 . 

( 2 ) No Court shall take cognizance of any offence 
under this Act or under the rules made thereunder 
except with the previous sanction of the Commis 
sioner , and no Court inferior to that of a Magistrate 
of the first class shall try any such offence . 

( 3 ) All offences punishable under this Act shall be 
cognizable and bailable . 


( 2 ) Every person transporting such goods as may 
be notified shall, at any check - post or barrier refer 
red to in sub - section ( 1 ) , file before such officer as 
may be authorised by the Government in this behalf 
a declaration in such form and in such manner as 
may be prescribed . 

( 3 ) The officer authorised by the Government un 
der sub - section ( 2 ) or any other officer who may be 
authorised in this behalf may for the purpose of 
satisfying himself that the provisions of sub -sec 
tion ( 2 ) are not being contravened , and subject to 
such restrictions as may be prescribed , intercept and 
search any vehicle which may be suspected of contra 
vening the said provisions. 


Indemnity . 

34. No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding 
shall lie against any employee of the Government for 
anything which is in good faith done or intended to 
be done under this Act or the rules made thereunder . 


Penalty for concealment of sales etc. 

31. ( 1 ) If the Commissioner or any person appoin 
ted under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 to assist him 
in the course of any proceedings under this Act is 
satisfied that a dealer has concealed the particulars 
of his sales or has furnished inaccurate particulars 
of his sales and has thereby returned figures below 
the real amount, he may , after giving the dealer a 
reasonable opportunity of being heard , direct that the 
dealer shall, in addition to the tax payable by him 
under this Act, pay , by way of penalty , a sum not 
exceeding one and a half times the amount of tax 
which would have been avoided if the figures retur 
ned by the dealer were accepted as correct . 

(2 ) If any person purchasing goods is guilty of an 
offence under clause ( c ) or clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 30 , the authority , which granted to him 
or as the case may be, is competent to grant to him 
a certificate of registration under this Act may , after 
giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard , 
by order in writing , impose upon him by way of pe 
nalty a sum not exceeding one and a half times the 
tax which would have been levied under this Act in 
respect of the sale to him of the goods , if the offence 
had not been committed . 


Returns etc. , to be confidential. 

35. (1 ) All particulars contained in any statement 
made , return furnished or accounts or documents 
produced in accordance with this Act or in any re 
cord of evidence given in the course of any proceed 
ings under this Act other than proceedings before 
a Criminal Court shall, save as provided in sub -sec 
tion ( 3 ) , be treated as confidential, and notwiths 
tanding anything to the contrary contained in any 
other law relating to evidence , no Court shall, save as 
aforesaid , be entitled to require any employee of the 
Government to produce before it any such statement, 
return , account, document or record or any part 
thereof, or to give evidence before it in respect 
thereof. 


... 


Compounding of offences. 

32. ( 1 ) Subject to such conditions as may be pres 
cribed , the Commissioner may accept from any per 
son alleged to have committed an offence under sub 
-section ( 1 ) of section 30 or under any rules made 
under this Act , either before or after the commence 
ment of any proceedings against such person in res 
pect of such offence, by way of composition for such 
offence, a sum not exceeding five thousand rupees 
or where the offence alleged to have been committed 
is under clause ( a ) or clause (b ) of that sub -section , 
not exceeding double the amount of the tax which 
would have been payable by such person had he com 
plied with the provisions of the Act , whichever is 
greater . 

( 2 ) On payment in full of such sum as may be 
determined by the Commissioner under sub - sec 
tion ( 1 ) 

(a ) no proceedings shall be commenced against 
such person as aforesaid ; and 

(6 ) if any proceedings have been already commen 
ced against such person as aforesaid , such procee 
dings shall not be further proceeded with . 


( 2 ) If save as provided in sub - section ( 3 ), any 
employee of the Government discloses any of the par 
ticulars referred to in sub -section ( 1 ) , he shall be 
punishable with imprisonment which may extend to 
six months, and shall also be liable to fine . 

( 3 ) Nothing in this section shall apply to the dis 
closure : 
( a ) of any of the particulars referred to in sub 

-section ( 1 ) for the purposes of a prosecu 
tion under the Indian Penal Code in respect. 
of any such statement, return , accounts , do 
cuments or evidence , or for the purposes of 

a prosecution under this Act ; or 
(b ) of such facts , to an officer of the Central 

Government or the Government of any 
State or Union Territory , as may be neces 
sary for verification of such facts or for 
the purpose of enabling that Government to 
levy or realise any tax imposed by it . 


Power to make rules . 


Setting up of posts and barriers . 

33. ( 1 ) The Government may , by notification in 
the Official Gazette , set up check - posts or barriers 
at any place in Goa , Daman and Diu with a view to 
preventing evasion of sales tax and other dues paya 
ble under this Act . 


36. ( 1 ) The Government may , subject to the condi 
tion of previous publication , make rules for carrying 
out the purposes of this Act . 

( 2 ) In particular and without prejudice to the gene 
rality of the foregoing power , such rules may pres . 
cribe : 
( a ) the further period after the date of expiry 

of three consecutive years referred to in 
sub -section ( 3 ) of section 4 ; 


o 


304 


SERIES I No. 38 i 


( ii ) outside Goa , Daman and Diu ; or 
(iii) in the course of import of the goods into , 

or export of goods out of, the territory 
of India . 


Explanation : Sections 3 , 4 and 5 of the Central 
Sales Tax Act , 1956 , shall apply for determining 
whether or not a particular sale or purchase 
takes place in the manner indicated in clause (i) , 
clause ( ii) cr clause ( iii ) . 


Power to remove difficulties. 

38. If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the 
provisions of this Act , the Govt. may, by order, as 
occasion requires , do anything ( not inconsistent with 
this Act ) which appears to it to be necessary for 
removing the difficulty . 


THE HIRST SCHEDULE 


(6 ) the particulars to be contained in a decla 

ration under clause ( II ) of sub -section ( 3 ) 
of section 7 , the form of such declaration , 
the authority from which such form shall 
be obtainable and the manner in which such 

declaration is to be furnished ; 
( c ) the other sales turnover in respect of which 

may be deducted from a dealer s gross turn 
over in computing his taxable turnover as 

defined in section 7 ; 
(d ) the authority to which applications for re 

gistration under sections 11, 12 , 13 or 14. 

shall be made ; 
(e ) the procedure for, and other matters inci 

dental.to , the registration of dealers and the 
granting of certificates of registration , and 
the form of such certificates under sec 

tions 11 , 12 , 13 or 14 ; 
(f) the intervals at which , and the manner in 

which , the tax under this Act shall be 

payable under section 15 ; 
( g ) the returns to be furnished under sub - sec 

tion ( 2 ) of section 15 , and dates by which 
and the authority to which , such returns 

shall be furnished ; 
(h ) the date by which returns for any period are 

to be furnished and the procedure to be fol 

lowed for assessment under section 17 ; 
( i ) the manner in which refunds under section 

19 shall be made ; 
( j) the accounts and forms thereof required by 

section 20 : 
( k ) the conditions under which the production 

of accounts or documents or the furnishing 
of information may be required under sub 

-section ( 1 ) of section 21 ; 
( 1 ) the restrictions and conditions subject to 

which the Commissioner may delegate his 

powers under section 22 ; 
( m ) the authority to which information shall 

be furnished under section 23 ; 
( n ) the manner in which , and the authority to 

which , appeals against assessment may be 

preferred under section 27 ; 
( 0 ) the procedure for , and other matters (in 

cluding fees ) incidental to , the disposal of 
appeals and applications for revision and re 

view under section 27 ; 
( p ) the conditions under which offences may be 

compounded under section 32 ; 
( q ) the manner in which , and the time within 

which , applications shall be made , informa 
tion furnished and notices served , under this 

Act ; 
( r ) any other matter required to be prescribed . 
(3 ) Any such rules may provide that a breach 
thereof shall be punishable with fine not exceeding 
five hundred rupees, and when the offence is a con 
tinuing one , with a daily fine not exceeding twenty 
five rupees during the continuance of the offence. 
Savings . 

37. Nothing in this Act or the rules made there 
under shall be deemed to impose , or authorise the 
imposition of a tax on any sale or purchase of any 
goods when such sale or purchase takes place -- 

( i) in the course of inter - State trade or com 

merce ; 


( See ause :( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 7) . 
1. Motor vehicles , including chassis of motor vehicles , 

motor tyres and tubes and spare parts of motor vehi 

cles. 
2. Motor cycles and cycle combinations, motor scooters , 

motórettes and tyres, tubes and spare parts of motor 

cycles, motor scooters , motorettes . 
3. Refrigerators and air -conditioning plants and compo 

nent parts thereof . 
4. Wireless reception instruments and apparatus, radios 

and radio gramophones, transistors , electrical valves , 
accumulators, amplifiers and loud speakers and spare 

parts and accessories thereof . 
5. Cinematographic equipment including cameras, projec . 

tors and sound recording and reproducing equipment 
recording tape, lenses , films and parts and accessories 
required for use therewith excluding films certified by 
the Central Board of Film Censors to be predominantly 

educational in nature . 
6. Photographic and other cameras and enlargers, lenses , 

films and plates , paper and cloth and other parts and 

accessories required for use therewith . 
7. All clocks, time- pieces and watches and parts thereof . 
8. Iron and Steel safes and almirahs. 
9. All arms including rifles, revolvers , pistols , and ammu 

nition for the same. 
10. Cigarette cases and lighters . 
11. Tape recorders, dictaphone and other similar appara 

tus for recording sound and spare parts thereof. 
12. Sound transmitting equipment including telephones 

and loud speakers and spare parts thereof . 
13. Typewriters , tabulating machines , calculating machi 

nes and duplicating machines and parts thereof . 
14. Binoculars , telescopes and opera glasses . 
15. Gramophones and component parts thereof . 
16. Gramophone records . 


i 


.. 


THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


( See section 10 ) 

Tax - free goods 
1. All cereals and pulses including all forms of rice 

( except when sold in sealed containers ) . 
2. Flour including atta , maida , suji and bran ( except 

when sold in sealed containers ) . 
3. Bread . 
4. Meat ( except when sold in sealed containers ) . 
5. Hish ( except when sold in sealed containers ) . 
6. Fresh eggs . 
7. Live stock including poultry . 
8. Vegetables, green or dried ( excluding dehydrated vege 

tables ) and vegetable seeds and plants (other than 
medical preparations ) ( except when sold in sealed 

containers ) . 
9. Fresh fruits. 
10. Sugar, Gur, molasses and sugarcane. 
11. Salt . 
12. Fresh milk , whole or separated and milk products . 
13. Karadi ( safflower ) oil and till ( sesamum ) oil. 


3 


SANDRO 


WERDANA 


**! 1772 


17TH SEPTEMBER , 1964 


305 


48. Films certified by the Central Board of Film Censors 

to be predominantly educational in nature. 
49. Flowers ( excluding artificial flowers ) . 
50. Flower , fruit and vegetable seeds ; seeks of lucerne and 

other fodder grass ; seeds of sann hemp ; bulbs; croms; 
rhizomes ; suckers and tubers ; budgrafts , cuttings ; 

layers and seedlings ; plants . 
51. Plantain leaves, patrawalks and dronas. 
52. Handloom fabrics of all varieties (excluding pile car 

pets , braids , borders , laces and trimmings ). 
53. « Khadix and ready-made garments and other articles 

prepared from Khadi. 
Explanation For the purpose of this entry « Khadi» 
means any cloth woven on handloom in India from 
cotton , silk or woolen yam hand - spun in India or 
from the mixture of any two or all such yarns . 


54. Products of Village Industries as defined in the Khadi 

and Village Industries Commission Act , 1956 . 
55 . (i ) Handloom and parts thereof . 
( ii) The following handloom accessories, namely : 

( a ) Rach 
( b ) Fani 
( c ) Cotton healds 
( d ) Shuttles 
( e ) Bobbins 
( f ) Pins 
( g ) Pickers. 


wer , and 


14. Edible oils pressed on Ghanis . 
15. Ghee and vegetable ghee. 
18. Dah , butter and Khoa . 
17. All varieties of cotton , real silk , woollen , rayon or arti 

ficial silk fabrics. 
18. Cotton yarn including cotton thread . 
19. White printing paper, creamlaid paper, hand made 

paper and newsprint. 
20. School exercise and drawing books and bother articles 

of stationery used by the students . 
21. All books and periodicals . 
22. Kerosene . 
23. Fuel wood and charcoal. 
24. Agricultural implements . 
25. Matches . 
26. Cattle feeds including fodder and poultry feed . 
27. Hides and skins , whether in a traw or dressed state . 
28. Electrical energy . 
29. Fertilizers and manures including oil cakes. 
30. Water but not aerated water or mineral water , or 

water sold in bottles or sealed containers . 
31. Raw wool. 
32. Tobacco and all its products . 
33 . ( i) Country -made shoes When manufactured 

( Juties ) ( i) without the use of po 
( ii ) Hand -made utensi 

( ii ) at a place other than a 
( iii ) Cane and bamboo factory as defined in 
handicrafts 

the Factories Act , 1948 , 
( iv ) Earthenwares ma and sold either by the 
de by Kumbhars 

maker himself or by 
any member of his fa 
mily or by a cooperative 
society consisting wholly 
of the makers of such 

articles . 
34. Achar and Murraba except when sold in sealed.con 

tainers . 
35. Charkha , takli and charkha accessories . 
36. Slate , slate pencils , takhties , black ink used for takh 

ties, writing chalks, crayons, foot rules of the type 

used in schools , Kalams ( Pens used for takhties ) . 
37. Betel leaves , betel nuts , kat and edible time. 
38. Durries of the size not exceeding 30 sq . feet it area . 
39. Bardana including hessian cloth , iron strips and 

wooden and tin packing, the sale of which is incidental 
to dealings in any of the other goods mentioned in this 

Schedule . 
40. Cotton padding . 
41. Articles and utensils made of Kansa (bellmetal ) . 
42. Bullock carts , and spare parts thereof . 
43. Chilies, chilly powder ; tamarind , turmeric and all 

other condiments, whole or powdered , except when sold 

in sealed containers . 
44. Coconut in shell ; coconut oil and separated kernel of 

coconut other than copra . 
45. Cooked food and non -alcoholic drinks served alt one 

time at a price of not more than three mpees per per 
son , for consumption at or outside any eating house , 
restaurant , hotel, refreshment room or boarding esta 
blishment which is not a shop or establishment con 
duoted primarily for the sale of sweetmeats , confec 

tionery , cakes, biscuits or pastries. 
46. Foodstuffs and food provisions of all kindis (including 

dried fruits and dried vegetables ; raw semi- cooked , 
semi-processed or ready - to - serve foods ; pickles , sau 
ces , jams, marmalades , jellies ; preserved fruits and 
honey ) when sold in sealed containers of weight not 

exceeding five Kg . in each container . 
47. Farsan . 


( til ) The following handloom , auxiliary machines na 

mely : 

( a ) Warping frames worked by hand 
( b ) Sectional drum type warping machine 

worked by hand and V -shaped creel used 
therewith . 


i 


(iv ) The following attachment to handlooms namely : 

Wooden dobbies 


56. Kumkum (including liquid Kumkum ). 
57. Mangalsutra with black glass beads sold at a price not 

exceeding ten rupees each . 
58. Bangies of price not exceeding rupee one per pair . 
59. Silkworm eggs and silkworm cocoons. 
60. Stamp- papers and stamps sold by vendors duly autho 

rised under the provisions of the Indian Stamps Act, 

1899, and the Court Fees Act , 1870 . 
61. Safety razor blades. 
62. Fishing equipment other than mechanised boats and 

Vehicles . 


THE THIRD SCHEDULE 
( See clause ( b ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 7 ) 
1. Coal including coke in all its forms. 
2. Cotton 

as defined in section 
3. Iron and steel 

1:4 of the Central Sales 
4 , Jute 

Tax Act , 1956 . 
5. Oil - seeds 
6. Artificial silk yarn . 


Secretariat 
Panjim , 
September 16 , 1964 


S. BALAKRISHNA 
Secretary to the Government 

of Goa , Daman and Diu . 


GOVT. PRINTING PRESS - GOA 
( Imprensa Nacional Goa ; 

PRICE -- 80 Ps. 


C 


