RKQIBTKHKP No. P. BB 


Wat ©alette 




Ueqilu 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


Inbta 


No. 6J NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY h, 1961/MAGHA aa, 1882 


NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazettes o} India Extraordinary ware published uplo llie .Hlit Juiiliui\, 1961;—' 


Issue No. and date Issued by Subject 

No. 


1*. No. 4(29)-Tex.(C)/60, dated 27th 

January. 1961. 

14. No. CH(l)-15(29)/00, dated Slst 
January, 1961. 

No. C:h.(l)-Sl(44)/59, dated 31st 

January, 1961. 


Ministry of Commerce and Industry. 

Do. 

Do. 


Reconstitution of the All-India Handloom 
Board. 

fixation of prices of Caustic soda, etc. 

Fixation of prices of Bleaching powder 
etc. 


Copies of the Gazettes F.xtraordmary mentioned above will be supplied on Indent to the Manager of Publications 
Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of die date of Vm- «| 
these Gazettes. 


CONTENT* 


PA*r I — Srotion 1. — Notification* relating to Nan- 
Statutory Rule*, Regulations and Order* 
and Resolutions issued bv the Ministries 
of the Government of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defence) and 
by the Supreme Court . 


Pwt I.— Section a. — Notifications regarding 
Appointments, Promotions, Leave, etc. 
of Government Officers issued hy the 
Ministries of the Government of India 
(other than the Ministry of Defence) 
and hy the Supreme Court 

Pam I. — Section 3,— Notifications relating to 
Non-Statutory Rules, Regulations, Or- 
ders and Resolutions, issued by the 
|uihtty of Defence .... 
-pa« L— Section 4.— Notifications regarding 
Appointments, Promotions, Leave, etc. 
of Officer*, Inucd by the Mini* try of 

Defence 

futr II.—SaCTrtON 1. — Act*, Ordinances and Regu- 
lations ...... 

Panr II.— Section a.— Bills and Reports of Select 
Committees on Bills .... 


Pairr II.— Suction 3.— Sub-Suction (i)— General 
Statutory Rules (including orders, bye- 
laws etc. of a general character) issued 
by the Ministries of the Government of 
India (other than the Ministry of Defence) 
and bv Central Authorities (other than 
the Administrations of Union Territ' rics' 1 


Psjor II — Section 3. — Sub-Ssction ( 11 ).— Statutory 
Orders and notifications issued by the 
Min is trie* of the Government of India 
(other than the Ministry of Defence) and 
by Central Authorities (other than the 
Administrations of Union Territories) 


Paoas 

49 

73 

Nil 

37 

Nil 

Nil 


191 


4 f S 


Paat II — Section 4.— Statutory Rules and Orders 
notified by the Ministry of Defence 

Part III — Section i. — N otifications Issued by the 
Auditor General, Union Public Service 
Commission, Railway Administration, 
High Court*, and the Attached and Sub- 
ordinate Offices of the Government of 
India {Published al Simla) 

Pa*t III— Section a.— Notifications and Notices 
issued by the Patent Office. Calcutta 
{Published at Simla) .... 

Part III — S action 3, — Notifications issued by or 
under the authority of Chief Commis- 
sioner* {Published al Simla) . , 

Part III — Section 4. — Miscellaneous Notification* 
including notification*, order*, advertise- 
ments and notices issued by Statutory 
Bodies {Published at Simla) . 

Part IV — Advertisements and Notices by Private 
Individuals and Private bodies {Pablished 
al Simla) 

SurPiau ant No, 6 — 

Reported attacks and deaths from cholera, small- 
pox, plague and typhus in districts in 
India during week ending 14th January, 
1961 

Birth* and deaths from principal disease* in towns 
with a population of 30,000 and over in 
India during weeks ending 14th January, 
1961 ... 


paoal 


35 


179 

4* 


9 


49 

33 


65 


69 


THE Ci A/E I II OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 11, 19G1/MACHA 22, 1882 


[Pmit I— Sec. 1 


SO 


PART I— Section 1 

Notifications relating to Non-Statutory Buies, Regulations and orders and Resolutions issued 
by the Ministries ot the Government of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by 

the Supreme Court 


MINIS! RY OF FIN INGE 
(Dcpai (im.nl ol 1 1 mtimii Alluiis) 

Nen 1 Delhi, tlic' 3 i,l Ithrumy 1 ‘JO 1 

No. F.lIKb-W&M /hi.— In pursuant e ul P.nagiaph 1 of the 
Notification oi the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Finance (Dcpai tincut of Economic Vlfans) No. 4( l)-\VihM/60, 
dated the Est Match, l%0, as amended In Notilication 
No. 4(1 )-W 8cM /60-P t. Jl dated the 2Rlh June. 1900, it is 
hereby uotihed for general information that the following 
Series of the Five Ycai Inteiesl lice 1* l i/.c Bonds, 1969, will ho 
included in the third quarieily diaw foi Pn/es to be held 
on the 1st March, 1961:— 

(a) Bonds of Rs, 100/- denomination— Series A, B, C, D, E, 

F, G, H, J, K, L, M, N, Q, U, and V. 

(b) Bonds of Rs. 5 /- denomination— Series AA, AB, AC, 
AD, AE, AF, AG, AH, AJ, Ak, AE. AM, AN, AP, 
\Q, AR, AS, 1 1 and AU. 

SHIV NAUBH SINGH, Jt. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

Nile Drthi, the 1th February 1961 

No. 4{29)TEX(C)/6<).— The Government of India hereby 
directs that the following amendment be made in the Minis- 
try of Commerce and Industry’s Resolution No. 4(29)-TEX(C)/ 
60, dated the 27th Jamiaty, 1961. 

The following may be added as paragraph 2 In the said 
Resolution: 

“2. The Hoaid will function lor a period of two years." 

A. G. V. SljHRAHMANI \M, Under Secy. 


RESOLU riON 

Net!’ Delhi, the 1st February 1961 
‘Subjeci:— Committee on live 1’iodiuls of Con! Ca> bonisation. 

No. 8(9)/59-Ch.IIl.— Reference Ministiy of Commerce and 
Industry Resolutions No. 8(9)/59-Ch,III, dated the 4th April, 
■and 17th Octohct 1960, purtlished in the Gazette of India, 
Tart I. Section i on 9th April and 29th October, 1960 
respectively. 

Di. A. S, Nagatkatli, Assistant Sales Manager (Bye Products) 
Hindustan Steel limited, 2, Fanlie Place. Calcutta, will 
represent Hindustan Steel 1 i mi ted, on the Committee. 

Order 

Otdeied that a inpv of the Resolution be communicated 
to all meinbeis ot llic Committee. 

Ordered Lhat the Resolution he published iii the Gazette 
ol India for information, 

G, C. L, JONEJA, Jt. Secy. 


CORRIGENDUM 

Ne w Delhi, the 1th February 1961 

No. LX.Ind(A)-80(21)/5B,— In this Ministry's- Resolution 
No. E.E.Iird.30(21)/58 dated the 17th January, 1959 published 
Jh Part I, Section I ot the Gazette ol India dated the 24th 
January, 1959, constituting a Panel with a view to develop 
the maHufactuie of clocks, time-pieces and watches In India, 
the name and particulars, t'ir.— 

Shrl S. 1). Joshl, Managing Director, National Instruments 
(Private) l.td , Jadavpur, Calculta-32 — Chau man, 

wherever appearing shall be subslrtuted by the following: 

Sliri M, M Vadr, Industrial \dvisei (F.ngineering), 
Development Wing, Ministry ot Commerce and 
Indttsliv, Udvog Bhavati, New Delhi— Chairman. 

Order 

Ot dered llraL a copy of the above corrigendum be com- 
tnunitaied to all concerned and that it be published in the 
Gazette of India. 

11. E. KOC11AR, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
(Department ol Agriculture) 

Acre Delhi, the Is/ Febiuaiy 1961 

No. 16-10/ 58-PPS,— In supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India, in the Ministry ot Food fc Agriculture 
No. 9-55/ r >l-Dtc.I, tlated the 21st Sep.cmbet, 1951, it in hereby 
uotihed for general information that the following ofheers are 
authorised to inspci t luring lie or disinfect and to grant 
phy insanitary ccriilrcaies, in the form appcndi d, in respect of 
plants and planl products, intended lor export to foreign 
couimics, governments of which require such calibrate:— 

OFFICERS 

Central Government 

1. The Plant Protection Adviser to the Government of India, 
Ministry of Food and Agriculture, New Delhi, or any person 
duly authorised by him in this behalf. 

2. (i) Head of the Division of Entomology, Indian Agricul- 
tural Research Institute, New Delhi. 

(iri Head ot the Division of Mycology, Indian Agricultural 
Resc.nch Institute, New Delhi. 

3. Chief Research Olhccr and Head of the Division of Forest 
Protection, P'oiesL ReseJiih Institute, Dehradun. 

4. Dnectoi. Central Rite Research Institute, Cuttack, Orissa. 

.St at rs 

Andhra Pradesh 

1 . Entomologist ami 

2. Mycologist to tire Government of Andhra Pradesh, Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Rajlndernagar Agricultural Institute, 
Hyderabad. 

Assam 

1. Director of Agriculture to the Government of Amain, 
Department of Agriculture, Gauhati. 

2. Director, Tea Experiment Station, Tokali. 

Bihar 

1. Entomologist to the Government of Bihar, Mithapur Farm, 
Patna 

2. Plant Pathologist to tile Government of Bihar, Agriculture 
College, Sabour (Bihar). 

Maharashtra 

1 ■' ’ , he Government ol Maharashtra, College 

of •. • 

Gujcrat 

1. Plant Pathologist to the Government of Gujerat, Ahmeda- 
bad. 

Jammu and Kashmir 

1. Director of Agriculture, Jammu & Kashmir, Department 
of Agriculture, Srinagar. 

Kerala 

1. Entomologist to the Government of Kerala, Agricultural 
College and Research Institute, Vellayani (Kerala suit). 

2. Plant Pathologist, Agricultural College and Research 
Institute, Vellayani (Kerala State). 

Madhya Pradesh 

1. Entomologist to the Government of Madhya Pradmh, 
Department of Agriculture, Rewa. 

2. Mycologist to the Government of Madhya Pradesh Agri- 
(iiltural Research Institute, Gwalior. 

Madras 

1. Entomologist and (2) Mycologist to the Government of 
Madias, Agueulluial College and Research Institute, l.awley 
Road, Coimbatore. 

Mysore 

I . EnLomologist and (2) Plant Pathologist to the Govern- 
ment of Mvsoic, Department ot Agriculture, Bangalore. 

Orissa 

1. Entomologist and (2) Mycologist to the Government ol 
Orissa, Depjilinent oi Agriculture, Bhuveneshwar. 



" P srt I— Src. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1J, 196I/MACHA 22, 1882 


51 


Punjab 

1. Entomologist anil (2) Plant Pathologist to the Govern- 
ment of Punjab, Government Agricultural College, Ludhiana. 

Utlar Pradeih 

I. Entomologist and (2) Plant Pathologist Lo the Govern- 
ment of Uttsi Ptadcsh, Kanpur. 

Rajaslhun 

1. Mycologist to Ihe Government ol Rajasthan, Department 
of Agiicullure, Ihlaipui. 

UVil Frugal 

1. Entomologist and (2) Mycologist lo I In Government of 
West Bengal, State Agin ulturul Research Institute, 230-Netaji 
Sublias Road, Regent Paik, Calculla-ld 

Umiom Tirkijoku? 

Ilimaihitl Pnulcbh 

1. Dtieclor of Agritnltme, Department of Agiicultme Hlma- 
lIi j I Piadesh, Adimnislia'ion, Solan (Simla llills). 

Andaman anil Nirobnr Island 

1 Agricultural Offitci, Andaman and Nicobar Island, Port 
.Blair. 

Or lira St \ 1 1 s 
Sikkim 

I loiest Manager, Sikkim 

Information regarding anangcracnls made and the fees 
ehaigcd for the inspection, fumigation or disinfection and 
certification of plants ot plant products intended for export to 
foieign countries should be obtained by the exporters direct 
fionr the officers concerned. 

GOVERNMENT OF 

OFFICE/MINISTRY OF 

Pin tosanii ary CcsTirtcA re 

Plant Protection Seivtrr of the. Government of 

This is to certify that the plants, parts of plants or plant 
products described below or representative samples of them 

were thoroughly examined on by 

an authorised officer of the 


And were found l« the best of his knowledge to be sub- 
stantially free fiom in lit lions diseases and pests and that the 
consignment is believed to coniotm with the current phytosani- 
tary regulations of the ililpOiLiiig counliy both as slated in the 
additional declaration hereon and otherwise 


Fumigation or disinfection tieatment (if lequiiecl by import- 
ing cauntry) 

Date Treatment 

Duration of exposure Glieinltal and concentration 


Additional declaration 

Date 

Slgnatuie 

Rank. 

(Stamp of the service) 


Di.sciiption of the Consignment 

Name and address of exporter. 

Name and address of consignee. 

Number anil description of packages. 

Distinguishing marks. 

Oiigiu (if requited by importing country). 

Means of conveyance. 

Point ot entry 

Quantity and name of produce. 

Botanical name (if tequiicd by impoiting countiy). 

V. S. NIGAM, Under Sccy. 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 
RESOLUTION 

AV ic Delhi' the 1st February 1961 

No, F. 12-I3/59-SW.3,— In partial modification of the 
Ministry of Education Resolution No. F. 12-13/59-SW.6, dated 
the- 4th September 1939 Lbe Government ot India are pleased 
to nominate the incumbent of the post ot the Director 
General ol Health Set vices as the representative ot the Ministry 
of Health on the Central Social Welfate Board. 

2. Order™ that this Resolution be published in the Gazette 
of India. 

3. Orderid also that a copy of Lius Resolution be forvvnrded 
to all the vncmbeis of the Central Social Welfare Board, all 
the Ministries ot I he Government of India, all the State Gov- 
ernments, the Planning Commission, the Cabinet Secretariat, 
the Depaitvncni ot Parliamentary Attaris, the Aciountant 
General, Gential Revenues, and the Press Information Bureau. 

N. D. J. RAO, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION & POWER 

KF.SOLUTIONS 

Kav Dillii, the 31.it fanuetty 1961 

No. DW.V.583(2)/60-l.— In this Ministry's Resolution No. 
DW.V 316 (2), 38, dated the 17llr' May, 19.38, as amended from 
l imp to tunc, the following shall be substituted for the existing 
entry (x):— 

" (x) One lepiesenlalive of each of the Slate Flood Control 
Boa ids, i.c , Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, 
Jammu and Kashmii, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maha- 
lashua, Mv.sme, Orissa, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and 
West Bengal.'' 

ORiira 

Ordered that this Resolution be communicated lo all State 
Governments, all the Ministries of the Government of India, 
Prime Minister's Secretariat, the Private and Military Secre- 
taries io the President, Cabinet Secretariat, the Lok Sabha/ 
Rajya Sabha Secretarial, U>e Department of Pai liamentary 
Allairs, the Planning Commission and the Comptroller and 
Auditor General ol India. 

Ordered also that the Resolution be published in the 
Gazette of India and that the State Governments be requested 
to publish ii In the State Gazettes for general information. 

No, DW.V.533(2)/G0-H.— The following amendments shall be 
made in para. I of this Ministry’s Resolution No. DW.V527 
(42)/36, elated the 20th October, 1937, as amended from time 
to time: — 

Part /.—Existing entry (xvl) shall be renumbered as entry 
(xvii) and the following shall be inserted as entry (xvl), 
namely:— 

“ (xvl) Chief Engineer and ex-officio Joint Secretary to the 
Government of India in the Ministry ol Irrigation Sc 
Power— Member." 

Part //.—Existing entry (xv) shall be renumbered as entry 
(xvi) and the following shall be inserted as entry (xv), 
namely:— 

" (xv) Ghiel Engineer and ex-ofjicio Joint Secretary to the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Irrigation St 
Power— Mem ber," 

Part IV.— Existing entry (vi) shall be deleted and the follow- 
ing entries shall Ire made, namely:— 

" (vi) Chief Engineer (Irrigation) and Joint Secretary, 
Public Works Department, Government of Gujarat— 
Member." 

" (vii) Chief Engineer (Irrigation) and Joint Secretary, 
Irrigation and Power Department, Government of 
Maharash ti a —Member," 

The subsequent entries shall be renumbered, 

Order 

Ordered that this Resolution be communicated to all State 
Governments, all the Ministries of the Government of India, 
Prime Minister's Secretariat, the Private and Military Secre- 
taries to l lie President, Cabinet Secretariat, the Lok Sabha/ 
Rajva Salih, i Secielatiat, the Department ot Parliamentary 
Affairs, the Planning Commission and the Comptroller and 
Auditot Geneial ol India. 

Oidcicd also that the Resolution Ire published in the 
Gazette of India and that the State Governments he requested 
to publish it ill the Stare Gazettes for geneial information 

M. R. SACHDEV, Sccy. 



52 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 11, 1961/MAGIIA 22, 1882 


[Pari I— Sec. 1 1 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 31vt January 1961 

No. 24/S/61-FP,— In pursuance o£ the Resolution of the Gov- 
ernment of India in the Ministry of Information and llroad 
casting No 1 /29/58 FP, dated th c r ith Februaiy, 1959, the 
Central Government licieby le-conslilutes the Film Advisory 
Board, Bombay with effect trom the lGtli Ictnuaiy 1961 and 
appoints the following as its members with elfcit from the 
same date — 

1. Chairman, Central Board of Film Censors, Bombay— 
Ex officio Chairman, 

2 Regional Offnri . Central Board of Film Consuls, 
Bombay—/ r officio Member. 

3. Sim M A Rar/aip Member, Bombay Atlvisoty Panel, 

Central Hoard of Film Censors 

4. Sltri D N Marshall 

5 Dr I) G. Vyas 

6. Shri G C Bancrjee. 

7. Shi i B D Hhaiueha 

8 Dr. D V. Bal. 

9. Shrimati Leela Jog. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 3rd rebntui y 1961 

No E&P-4(17)/fil,— Wheieas theic lias liecn a diange In 
llic composition of persons leprrsenting the Government of 
India on Central Board lor Workers' Education notified in 
the Ministry of Laliour and Employment Notification 
No. EfkP-4(21)/r>8, dated the 12th December, 1958, published 
m the Garotte of India, Pan I, Section 1, dated December 20 , 
1958, Jt is heicby notified for thc infoiinaLion of the public 
that in puisuance ol rule 3(b) of the Rules and Regulations 
of 'be said Society the Centtal Gosemmeut hereby appoinls 
Sim P C Sharma, Assistant Fdtuattonal Advisci Ministry of 
Education as a member of thc Cential Board foi Workers' 
Education vut Slur Sohan Singh, with effect fiom the date 
of this notification. 

In thc said uotilication in the catcgoiy of names repiesent 
Ing the Govci nincni n[ India foi the eutiy 

"2 Shii Sohan Singh, Assistant Educational Adviser, 
Ministry ot Education— Repiesenting Government of 
India " 

the following shall be substituted — 

“2 Mul P, 0. Shaima, \ssislam Educational Adviser, 

Mimstiy of Education— Representing Government of 
India " 


R. K.. GOVIL, Under Scry, 


K. D IIAJELA, Uudci Secy. 



