REGHIERRO No . D . 332 


* 


The Gazette 


of India 


44 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 47 


NEW DELHI, SATURDAY , NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 30, 1886 


Separate paging is given to this part in order that it may be Aled 

as a separate compliation 


NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upo thc 6th Novem 
ber , 1964 — 


No, and Date 


Issue 

No . 


Issued by 


Subject 


276 


Onmerce , 


$. Q . 3831, dated sth 

November, 1964 . 


Declaration that Section 17 of 

the Forward Contracts (Regu 
lation ) Act, 1952 , shall apply 
to non - transferable specific 
delivery contracts in respect of 
mustardseed and Rapeseed or 


Do , 


S . O . 3832 , dated sth Novem 

ber , 1964 . 


S .O . 3833, dated 5th Novem 

ber , 1964 . 


Do. 


Do . 


S . O . 3834 , dated 5th Novem 

ber , 1964 


Declaration that no person shall 

enter into any non - transferable 
specific delivery contract for 
the sale of mustardsced and 

Rapeseed or Toria . 
Declaration that no person shall 

enter into any forward Contract 
for the sale of taramirasced or 
taramiraseed oilcake. 
Declaratic n that Section 17 of the 

Forward Contracts (Regulation 
Act, 1952 , shall apply to non 
tranferable specific delivery 
contracts in respect of tara 
miraseed . 
Declaration that no pescn shall 

enter into any non - transferable 
specific delivery cr ntract furthe 
sale of taramirasecd . 


Do , 


S . O . 3835 , dated 5th Novem 

ber , 1964 


Do , 


277 $ . 0 . 3836 , dated 6th Novem 

ber , 1964 . 


Punjab Company Limited , 
Bhatinda frs 3 years in respect 
of forward Contracts in Kapas . 


( 4399 ) 


4400 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTILA 30 , 1880 [PART II 


Insuo 
No. 


No. and Date 


Ionued by 


Subject 


ber , 1964 , 


Granting, recognition to the 

Mahcob Beopar Bhandar Com 
pany Ltd ., Dhuri for 3 years 
in respect of forward Contracts 
in Kapal 


278 


9 . 0 . 3838 , dated 6th Novem - Ministry of Food and 
ber , 1964 . 

Agriculture . 


Authoripids Shri J. P . Goel, 

Officer on special duty , Direc 
torate of Sugar and Vanaspati, 
to take over the managemçnt of 
the Diamond Sugar Mills Ltd ., 
Pipraich , District Gorakhpur. 


279 5 .0 .3839, dated 6th Novem - Ministry of Finance 

ber, 1964. 


Amendment to Notification No. 

$ . 0 . 3329, dated 29th Novem 

ber , 1963 . 
Amendment to Notification 

No, s . o . 2797 , dated 27th 
September, 1963 . 


Do. 


S .O . 3840 , dated 6th Novem 

ber , 1964 , 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of date of issue of 
these Gazettes . 


PART II — Section & Sub -section ( ii) 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministrlos of the Govern 

ment of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 
New Delhi, the 7th November 1964 


S . O . 3952 . — Whereas the election of Shrt Sita Ram , as a member of the Council 
of States by the elected members of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly has 
been called in question by an election petition by Shri Daryodhan , s / o Shri Devi 
Charan , MLA. village Bhitauli , P . O . Bhitauli, District Gorakhpur ; 

And whereas by its notification No. 82 / 348 /62, dated the 31st July , 1964, the 
Clection Commission appointed Shri Hari Krishna Sinha , District Judge , Kanpur 
to be the Member of the Election Tribunal constituted for the trial of the said 
petition ; 

And whereas, the said Shri Sinha has resigned the membership of the said 
Tribunal and a vacancy has accordingly occurred in the office of the Member of 
the Tribunal; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of 
section 80 and section 88 of the Representation of the People Act , 1951, the 
Election Commission hereby appoints Shri Umed Chand Oswal, Additional District 
and Sessions Judge, Kanpur to All the said vacancy and Kanpur as the place 
where the trial of the said petition shall be held . 

( No . 82 /348 /82.) 


Sta . (0 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 30 , 1886 4401 


New Delhi, the 12th November 1964 
S . O . 3953. - In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People Ac 
1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order pronounced on the 18th 
August, 1964 , by the Election Tribunal, Jorhat. 


IN THE COURT OF THE MEMBER OF THE ELECTION TRIBUNAL, JORHAT 
PRISOTT : 

Shri B . N . Sarma, M .AB. L , 
Member, Election Tribunal, Jorhat. 


ELECTION PETITION NO . 52 or 1982 


Begum Mafida Ahmed -- Petitioner. 

Veriut 


1. Shri Rajendranath Barua 
. Shri Hemchandra Saba. - Respondenta. 


Jorhat Parliamentary Constituency . Sibsagar District. 


Si. Na 

of 
Order 


o eo 


Dabe 


Dame 


Order. 


44 


18 .8 .64 . The petitioner has not fled the challan showing that the 

amount of Rs. 2 ,000 has been deposited as directed . She has 
filled a petition praying for three weeks time to deposit tho 
amount. It was specifically mentioned in my previous order 
that in case of failure on the part of the petitioner to Ale the 
treasury receipt showing deposit of the amount of Rs. 2 ,000 , 
the petition would be dismissed . I do not And any good and 
suficient ground to grant further time to deposit the money . 
The election petition is dismissed U / S . 118 of the Representa 
tion of the People Act. The petitioner to pay Rs. 500 to the 
Respondent No. 1, as costs , 


( Sd .) B . N . SARMA, 
Member, Election Tribunal, Jorhat. 


[No. 82 /52 /62. 3 

By Order, 
ROSHAN LAL , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 11th November 1964 
S . O . 3984 , - - In continuation of the Election Commission s Notifcation No. 82 ) 
216 /62, dated the 29th June , 1963 , the Election Commission hereby publishes for 
general information the judgment of the Supreme Court of India , delivered on 
the 9th October, 1984, in Civil Appeal No. 533 of 1964 filed by Shri Narendra 
Singhji Ranjit Singhji Mahida against the order , dated the 27th March , 1968 of 
the High Court of Judicature at Ahmedabad , 


4102 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 30 , 1886 PART II 


IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION 

CIVIL APPEAL No . 533 OF 1964 


(Appeal by Special Leave granted by the Supreme Court by its Order the 9th 

May , 1963 from the Judgment and Order dated the 27th March 1963 of the 
Gujarat High Court at Ahmedabad in Appeal No. 603 of 1962 and from Original 
Decree ) . 


1. Patel Chhotabhai Desaibhai; 
. 2 . Maniben . V . Patel - Respondents , 


WITH 
CIVIL MIŞC , PETITIONS Nos. 2188 AND 2169 OF 1964 
(Applications for directions regarding the hearing of the appeal and for setting 
down the appeal for hearing ex - parte as against Respondent 2 herein ). 

9th October, 1964 


CORAM 

HON BLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE , 
HON BLE MR . JUSTICE K , N . WANCHOO . 
HON BLE MR . JUSTICE M . HIDAYATULLAH . 
HON BLE MR . JUSTICE RAGHUBAR DAYAL , 
HON BLE MR . JUSTICE J. R . MUDHOLKAR . 


JUDGMENT 
Mudholkar , J . - The appellant s election to Parliament from the Anand consti 
tuency of Gujarat was set aside by the Gujarat High Court on the ground that he 
was guilty of corrupt practices as he and his agents used the symbol Dhruva 
star for influencing voters in his constituency . In allowing the appeal the High 
Court followed its decision in Ramanbhai Aghabhai Patel v . Dabhi Ajitkumar, 
Fulsinji & ors (1) . In its judgment the High Court observed : 
" In view of the fact that we hold that corrupt practice as aforesaid has 

been committed by the persons referred to above, it is not necessary 
for us to examine the other grounds urged for the purpose of declaring 

the election of the first respondent to be void . " 
In Anding that the use of Dhruva Star amounts to a corrupt practice the High 
Court followed its decision in the appeal of Ramanbhat Ashabhai Patel s case ( 1) 
which we have reversed today (vide the judgment in C . A . 506 of 1964 ). That 
finding must, therefore , be set aside. Mr. Rajni Patel who appears for the first 
respondent refers us to a pamphlet, Ex . 83, and says that it contains an appeal to 
the communal sentiments of a certain class of voters and , therefore, amounts to 
an attempt to promote feelings of enmity or hatred betwcen different classes of 
citizens on grounds of community . We have been taken through this document 
and we agree with Mr. Patel that the appeal contained therein does amount to 
a corrupt practice within the meaning of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 123 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951. We are, however, by no means satisfied 
that the appellant or his agents had distributed this pamphlet or caused it to be 
distributed . Admittedly this pamphlet bears the name of one Chhattarsingh 
Atalia who was a Swatantra Party candidate for election from some other consti 
tuency . The respondent No. 1 had filed this pamphlet as an exhibit in this case 
saying that it was distributed by the appellant or his agents during his election . 
The Tribunal found no evidence connecting this document with the appellant or 
showing that it was made use of during the appellant s election and Mr. Patel is 


(1 ) First Appeal No. 428 of 1962 decided on 11 / 12 March , 1983 . 


Sec. $ (id)) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 / KARTIKA 80 , 1886 403 


unable to show that the said finding is erroneous. The leaflets and pamphletis 
shown to have been distributed by or at the instance of the appellant are leaflets 
of the same kind as those which we had to consider in Ramanbhai Ashabhai 
Patel s case . For the reasons which we have stated therein these leaflets do not 
come within the purview of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 123 of the Act. 

The High Court has no doubt said that other grounds had also been urged for 
declaring the appellant s election void but it has not mentioned what those 
grounds were. A glance at the issues set out in paragraph 34 of the Judgment of 
the Tribunal would show that the only grievances of respondent No. 1 were 
concerning the use by or on behalf of the appellant of religious symbols and the 
promotion by him or his agents of fcclings of onmity and hatred between different 
Classes of the citizens of India . We have already said that these have not been 
established . In the circumstances no other point remains for consideration and 
indeed Mr. Patel has frankly said that hç did not want to urge any other point. 
We allow the appeal and set aside the decision of the High Court and dismiss the 
election petition with costs throughout. 
October 9 , 1964. 

Sd / 
( P . B . GAJENDRAGADKAR ), C . J . 

Sd / 
( K N . WANCHQO ), J . 


Sd / 


$ 87 
(RAGĦUBAR DAYAL ), J. 

Sd / 
( J. R . MUDHOLKAR), J. 

[No. 82 / 216 / 82. ) 

By Order, 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 
New Delhi, the 9th November 1964 


S . O . 3955 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution the President hereby makes the following rules further 10 
amend the Tripura Employees ( Revision of Pay and Allowances ) Rules , 1963, 
published with the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Home Affairs , No. S .O . 516 dated the 4th February , 1964, namely : 


1. These rules may be called the Tripura Employees 
Allowances ) Third Amendment Rules , 1964 , 


(Revision of Pay and 


2. In Part II of Schedule I to the Tripura Employees (Revision of Pay and 
Allowances ) Rules , 1963 — 
( 1) under the heading " Secretariat (crstwhile Territorial Council, Tripura ) " 

after item 14 , the following shall be inserted namely : - - 


I 


“ 15 Accounts Officer . 


. Rs . 250 - 25 — 475 — EB - 25 – 


Rs. 300 — 30 - 900 


16 Personal Secretary to Rs. 200 — 10 - - 420 - 15 — 450 Rs. 300 -- 20 — 400 — 25 - 450 

Chairman . 
17 Examiner of Accounts · Rs, 200..- 15 — 380 -- EB - 20 — 500 Rs . 2,50 – 15 — 355 – ER - 15 – 

475 - EB - 15 - 550 " 


4404 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 / KARTIKA 80, 1888 PART II 


(11 ) under the heading “ Revenue and Public Relations (erstwhile Territorial 

Council , Tripura ) " after item 6 , the following shall be inserted . 
namely : 


ving 


Rø. 300 — 30 - 900 " 


Revenue and Public Re- Rs. 250 - 25 – 475 - EB - 254 
lations Officer 

675 - EB - 254850 


( 111 ) under the heading " Education Department (erstwhile Tripura Terrt . 

torial Council) " after Item 29, the following shall be inserted , 
Damely : 


51 


3 


“ 30 Guidance Officer . Rø. 250 – 204680 — 25 – 750 325 — 30 — 475 — 35– 545 

EB - 35 - 825 - EB - 35 - 1000 
31 Principal, Sanskrit Tol . Rs. 200 _ 1Om - 250 

Rs. 175 — 7 — 238 – EB 7 — 245 – 

8 – 325 
32 Adhyapak Sanskrit Tol Rs . 100 _ 5160 EB - 5 — 215 – Rs . 150 — 5 — 250 

10 — 225 
33 Instructor/ Supervisor Rs . 105 - 160 

Rp . 14045- - 210 " 
Dance , Arts /Music , 
Musical Instruments . 


( iv ) under the heading "Medical and Public Health Department ( erstwhile 


Inserted , namely : 


2 


" 30 


Sanitary Inspector 


Rs. 90 — 4 -- 130 


Rs. 125 — 3 — 140 — 4 - 186 - EB 

4 - - 200 (with higher initial 

start at Rs. 164 /- ) 
Rg . 125 – 3 -- 146 - 4 - ( -- IF 


31 Compounder 


Rs . 55 — 3 — 88 — EB - 3 -- 118 - 

4 - 130 


4 – 200 " 


(v ) under the heading " Public 


Health 


Department 


( erstwhile 


Tripura 


namely 


2 


tics, 


" 91 Inspector of Vital Statis - Rs. 904- 130 

Rg. 125 - 3 - 14044- 156 - EB 

4 - 200 (with higher initia ) 

start at Rs. 164/-) 
22 Malaria Inspector Rø . 90 - 4 - 130 

Rs. 125 - 3 — 140 — 4 — 156 - EB 

4 – 200 (with higher initial 

start at Rs. 164 /- ) 
23 Compounder - cum - Clerk R9.55 - 3 - - 2 2 - 11 & - Ro. 121 - 1 - 146 - 4 - 15 - IP 

4130 


4 - 2009 


Sec . $ ( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1984 / KARTIKA BO , 1886 4405 


( vi ) under the heading 

Council) " , after Item 


" Engineering Department ( erstwhile Territorial 
30 , the following shall be inserted, namely : 


I 


2 


" 31 Divisional Accountant 


Rs. 100 - 5 - 130 - IC - 250 - Rs, 2006 – IC - 29C - EE - IC 

15 - 355 . 


400 " 


( vii ) 


under the heading " Animal Husbandry Department ( erstwhile Terri 
torial Council ) " "after Item 34 the following shall be inserted , 
namely : 


I 


2 


" 35 Animal Husbandry Officer Rs. 350 - 36 – 626 - EP - 3C — 

680 — 40 800 
36 Assistant Mechanic 75 — 3 - 105 


Rs. 400 - 45 - 717 - EE - 89C 

501000 
110 - - 4 -- - 170 " 


[No. 2 / 4 / 64 -HMT. ] 
J. N , GUPTA , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Dopartment of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 9th November 1964 
8 . 0 . 3956 . -- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 39 of the Life 
Insurance Corporation Act, 1950 (31 of 1956 ) , the Central Government hereby 
publishes the following certificate granted to the All India & Burma Provident 
Fund , Bangalore, an insurer whose controlled business has been transferred to 
and vested in the Life Insurance Corporation of India under the provision of the 
baid Act. 

CERTIFICATE 
Whereas the All India & Burma Provident Fund , Bangalore, is an insurer 
whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in the Life Insur 
ance Corporation of India under the provisions of the Life Insurance Corporation 
Act, 1956 (31 of 1956 ) ; 

And whereas the said insurer has compllēd with all directions given to it 
by the said Corporation for the purpose of securing that the ownership of any 
property or any right is effectively transferred to the Corporation ; 

And whereas the sald insurer has made an application to the Central Govern 
ment that there is no reason for the continued existence of the insurer ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 39 of the said 
Act , the Central Government hereby grants to the said insurer the certificate 
thiat there is no reason for the continued existence of the insurer . 

[No. F . 3 ( 9 ) - INS ( II) / 69 . ] 
S. S. SHARMA , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Dopartment of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhh, the 10th November, 1964. 
S . O . 3957. - Whereas on the application of the Reserve Bank of India under sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 45 of the Banking Companies Act, 1949 ( Act 10 of 1949 ) the 
Central Government has made an order of moratorium in respect of the Thiyya 
Bank Ltd ., Kottapurem , Cranganore, under sub - section ( 2 ) of the said section ; 


4406 THE GAZETFE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21 , 1964 / LARTİLA 50, 1886 (Part II -- 


And whereas the Reserve Bank of India in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 45 of the said Act has prepared a scheme for the 
amalgamation of the Thiyya Bank Ltd ., Kottapuram , Cranganore with the Lord 
Krishna Bank Ltd ., Cranganore ; 

And whereas the Reserve Bank after having sent the said scheme in draft to 
the banks concerned in accordance with the provisions of sub - section ( 6 ) of the 
said section and after having considered the suggestions and objections received 
in regard to the said scheme has modified that scheme and forwarded it to the 
Central Government for sanction ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 7 ) of 
section 45 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby sanctions the scheme 
on and subject to the terms and conditions hercinafter mentioned . 

( 1) The Thiyya Bank Ltd ., shall be the transferor bank and the Lord Krishna 
Bank Ltd ., shall be the transferee bank , 

( 2 ) As from the date which the Central Government may specify for this pur 
pose under sub - section ( 7 ) of section 45 of the said Act (hereinafter referred to 
as the prescribed date ) all rights , powers , claimg, demands, interests , authorities, 
privileges , benefits , assets and properties of the transferor bank , movable and 
immovable, including premises subject to all incidents of tenure and to the rents 
and other sums of money and covenants reserved by or contained in the leases 
or agreements under which they are held , all office furniture , loose equipment, 
plant, apparatus and appliances , books, papers ; stocks of stationery , other stocks 
and stores, all investments in stocks, shares and securities, all bills receivable in 
hand and in transit , all cash in hand and on current or deposit account ( including 
money at call or short notice ) with banks, bullion , all book debts, mortgage debts 
and other debts with the benefit of securities , or any guarantee therefor , all other , 
if any , property rights and assets of every description including all rights of action 
and beneat of all guarantees in connection with the business of the transferor 
bank shall, subject to the other provisions of this scheme, stand transferred to , 
and become the properties and assets of, the transferee bank ; and as from the 
prescribed date all the liabilities, duties and obligations of the transferor bank 
shall be and shall become the liabilities, duties and obligations of the transferee 
bank to the extent and in the manner provided hereinafter . 

Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, all contracts , 
deeds, bonds , agreements , powers of attorney, grants Tegal representation 
and other instruments of whatever nature subsisting or having effect immediately 
before the prescribed date shall be effective to the extent and in the manner 
hereinafter provided against or in favour of the transferee bank and may be 
acted upon as if instead of the transferor bank the transferee bank had been a 
party thereto or as if they had been issued in favour of the transferee bank , 

If on the prescribed date any suit , appeal or other legal proceeding of what 
ever nature by or against the transferor bank is pending, the same shall not 
abate , or be discontinued or be in any way prejudicially allected , but shall, sub 
ject to the other provisions of this scheme, be prosecuted and enforced by or 
against the transferee bank . 

If the transferor bank was acting immediately before the prescribed date as a 
foreman in respect of any chit fund , the rights, duties and obligations in relation 
10 tlie chit fund shall be regulated in accordance with the following provisions, 
namely : 
( i) the transferee bank shall become the foreman of the chit fund and 

shall continue to exercise all powers and to do all such acts and 
things as would have been exercised or done by the transferor bank , 

in so far as they are not inconsistent with this scheme; 
( ii ) the funds, if any, of the chit fund lent to or deposited with the trans 

feror bank , or otherwise due from that bank to the chit fund , shall 
be transferred to the transferee bank and the liabilities correspond 
ing to such funds shall also be payable by the transferec bank in 

accordance with the other provisions of this scheme; 
( ili ) on the prescribed date the transferor bank in its capacity as the fore 

man of any chit fund has deposited any security for the due perfor 
mance of its duties and obligations in relation to the said chit fund, 
the said security shall continue to be available for the purposes for 
which it was intended , but shall if and to the extent that it is subse 
quently released be transferred to and vest in the transferee hank 
provided that the said security or as the case may be the surplus, if 


$ a 3(1 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21 , 1964 / KAKTIKA 30, 1886 4407 


any , after providing for the discharge of the duties or obligations in 
respect of the chit fund shall be valued and utilised for the purposes 

of this scheme; 
( iv ) notwithstanding anything contained in the Travancore Chitties Act , 

XXVI of 1120 or the Cochin Kuries Act, VII of 1107 , the suspension 
by the transferor bank of any chit fund or kuri during the period 
from the loth August 1964 to the 15th November, 1964, both days in 
clusive or for any part of that period , and any consequent prolonga 
tion of the chit fund or kuri shall have effect as though the articles 
in the variola or variolas or vaimpu or vaimpus were altered or added 
to for that purpose by a special resolution or special resoluțions of 
the subscribers of the chit fund or kuri and as though the relevant 
provisions, if any, of the Travancore Chitties Act or the Cochin 
Kuries Act were complied with . And notwithstanding anything con 
tained in the Travancore Chitties Act or the Cochin Kuries Act the 
failure of the foreman to conduct the chit fund or kuri during the 
said period , or to disburse prize amounts to prized subscribers, shall 

not be decmed to have terminated the chit fund or kuri ; 
( v ) notwithstanding anything contained in the variola or variolas or vaimpu 

or vaimpus the period fixed for the duration of the chit fund or kuri 
shall be deemed to have been extended by the period referred to in 

the previous sub -paragraph ; 
( vi ) notwithstanding anything contained in the Travancore Chitties Act or 

the Cochin Kuries Act the Lord Krishna Bank Ltd ., shall continue the 
chit fund or kuri as if the provisions, if any , of the said Act relating 
to continuance of the chit fund for kuri have been complied with ; 

and 
( vii ) all the words and expressions used in the preceding sub - clauses but not 

defined shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the 

Travancore Chritties Act or Cochin Kuries Act. 
It according to the laws of any country outside India the provisions of this 
scheme, by themselves, are not effective to transfer or vest any asset or liability 
situated in that country which forms part of the undertaking of the transferor 
bank to or in the transferee bank , the affairs of the transferor bank in relation 
to such asset or liability shall, on the prescribed date , stand entrusted to the chief 
executive officer for the time being of the transferee bank and the chief executive 
officer may exercise all powers and do all such acts and things as would have been 
exercised or done by the transferor bank for the purpose of effectively winding up 
its affairs . The Chief Executive Officer shall take all such steps as may be required 
by the laws of any such country outside India for the purpose of effecting such 
transfer or vesting and in connection ther with the Chief Executive Offcer may , 
either himself or through any person authorised by him in this behalf, realise any 
asset or discharge any liability of the transferor bank and transfer the net pro 
ceeds thereof to the transferee bank . 

( 3 ) The books of the transferor bank shall be closed and balanced and balance 
sheets prepared in the first instance as at the close of business on the 14th August , 
1964 , and thereafter as at the close of business on the date immediately preced 
ing the prescribed date and the balance sheets shall be got audited and certified 
by a chartered accountant or a firm of chartered accountants approved or nominat 
ed by the Reserve Bank of India for the purpose, 

A copy each of the balance sheets of the transferor bank prepared in accor 
dance with the provisions of the foregoing paragraph , shall be filed by the trans 
feror bank with the Registrar of Companies as soon as possible after it has been 
received and thereafter the transferor bank shall not be required to prepare 
balance sheets or proft and loss Accounts , or to lay the same before its members or 
file copies thereof with the Registrar of Companies or to hold any annual general 
meeting for the purpose of considering the balance sheet and accounts or for any 
other purpose or to comply with the provisions of section 159 of the Companies 
Act, 1956 , and it shall not thereafter be necessary for the Board of Directors of 
the transferor bank to meet as required by section 285 of that Act . 

( 4 ) I. The transferee bank shall, in consultation with the transferor bank , 
value the property and assets and reckon the liabilities of the transferor bank in 
accordance with the following provisions, namely : - - 
( a ) Investments including Government securities shall be valued at the 

market rates prevailing on the day immediately preceding the pres 
cribed date provided that the securities of the Central Government 


4408 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21 , 1964 /KARTIKA 30 , 1886 [PAKT II 


44 


such as Post Office Certificates , Treasury Savings Deposit Certificates 
and any other securities or certificates issued under the small savings. 
scheme of the Central Government shall be valued at their face value 
or the encashable value as on the said date, whichever is higher . 


( b ) Where the market value of any Government security such as the 

Zamindari abolition bonds or other similar security in respect of 
which the principal is payable in instalments is not ascertainable or 
is , for any reason , not considered as reflecting the fair value thereof 
or as otherwise appropriate , the security shall be valued at such an 
amount as is considered reasonable having regard to the instalments 
of principal and interest remaining to be paid , the period during 
which such instalments are payable , the yield of any security issued 
by the Government to which the security pertains and having the 


tors . 
(c ) Where the market value of any security , share , debenture , bond or 

other investment is not considered reasonable by reason of its having 
been affected by abnormal factors , the investment may be valued on 

the basis of its average market value over any reasonable period , 
(d ) Where the market value of any security , share , debenture , bond or 

other investment is not ascertainable , only such value, if any, shall 
be taken into account as is considered reasonable, having regard to 
the financial position of the issuing concern , the dividends paid by it 

during the preceding five years and other relevant factors . 
( e ) Premises and all other immovable properties and any assets acquired 

in satisfaction of claims shall be valued at their market value . 
( 1 ) Furniture and fixtures, stationery in stock and other assets , if any , shall 

be valued at the written down value as per books or the realisable 

value as may be considered reasonable , 
(a ) Advances including bills purchased and discounted , book debt , and 

sundry assets , will be scrutinised by the transferee bank and the 


verifled by the transferee bank . Thereafter, the advances, including 
portions thereof, will be classifled into two categories, namely , 
* Advances considered good and readily realisable " and " Advances 
considered not readily realisable and /or bad or doubtful of recovery " , 


II, Llabilities for purposes of this scheme shall include all contingent llabili 
ties which the transferce bank may reasonably be expected or required to meet 
out of its own resources on or after the prescribed date , 

ILI. Where the valuation of any asset cannot be determined on the prescribed 
date , it may , with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India be treated partly 
or wholly is an asset realisable at a later date . 

In the event of any disagreement between the transferee bank and the trans 
Teror bank as regards the valuation of any asset or the classification of any 
advance or the determination of any liability , the matter shall be referred to the 
Reserve Bank of India , whose opinion shall be final, provided that until such an 
opinion is received , the valuation of the item or portion thereof by the transferee 
bank shall provisionally be adopted for the purpose of this scheme. 

It shall be competent for the Reserve Bank in the event of its becoming neces 
sary to do so , to obtain such technical advice as it may consider to be appropriate 
in connection with the valuation of any such item of asset or determination of 
any such item of liability , and the cost of obtaining such advice shall be payable 


The valuation of the assets and the determination of the liabilities in accor 
dance with the foregoing provisions shall be binding on both the banks and the 
member and creditors thereof. 

(5 ) In consideration of the transfer of the property and the Assets of the trans 
teror bank to the transferee bank the transferee bank shall discharge the liabi 
Lities of the transferor bank to the extent mentioned in this and the succeeding 
pungraphs 
( a ) Any sumg deposited by any employee of the transferor bank with that 

bank ag stal security deposits together with interest, ff y , accrued 


Sia, $ ( 11)] 


Suka,BM THE GAZETIE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2,1984/KARTIKA 30,1986 1409 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 30 , 1886 4409 


thereon up to the prescribed date and all other outside liabilities as 
on the prescribed date excluding deposits shall be paid or provided 

for in full. 
Explanation . - For the purposes of this paragraph , interest payable on a de 
posit up to the prescribed date shalll be regarded as part of the concerned 
deposit 
(b ) In respect of every savings bank account or current account or any 

other deposit including a fixed deposit, cash certificate , monthly de 
posit, deposit payable at call or short notice or any other deposit by 
whatever name called with the transferor bank and every other 
account not covered by clause ( a ) , including interest to the extent 
payable under this scheme, the transferee bank shall open with itself 
on the prescribed date a corresponding and similar account in the 
name of the pro rata share available in respect of each of the respec 
tive holder ( s ) thereof crediting thereto the accounts out of the assets 
referred to in paragraph ( 4 ) as valued for the purposes of this 
scheme on the prescribed date , after excluding from the said assets 
As so valued the advances considered not readily realisable or bad 
or doubtful of recovery , any asset or portion of an asset not valued on 
the prescribed date and any amount needed for the payments or 
visions mentioned at clause ( a ) above and after adding to the 
assets as so valued the aggregate amount of the payments made in 
termg of clause ( i) of paragraph 2 of the moratorium order dated the 

14th August, 1964, issued to the transferor bank : 
Provided that any payment made from a deposit account on or after the 

15th August, 1964 , and before the prescribed date , shall be reckoned 
towards the amount to be credited under this sub - paragraph and , 
accordingly the amount to be credited shall be the pro rata share 

less the amount of such payment : 
Provided , further , that where the transferee bank entertaing a reasonable 

doubt about the correctness of the entries made in any particular 
account, it may , with the approval of the Reserve Bank , withhold the 
credit to be made in that account in terms of clause ( b ) above till 
the transferee bank is able to ascertain the correct balance in much 


Emplanation . The term pro rata ghali, in so far as it occurs in this para 

graph , mean in proportion to the respective amounts remaining due 
as at the close of business on the 14th August , 1964 ( inclusive of in 
terest payable up to that date ) and shall, in so far as it occurs else . 
where in this scheme, mean in proportion to the respective amounts 

remaining due at the time of the payment or distribution . 
( c ) Atter the credits referred to in clause ( b ) above have been afforded , 

the transferee bank shall, with the least possible delay but in any 
case later than three months from the prescribed date , furnish to the 
Deposit Insurance Corporation established under the Deposit Insurance 
Corporation Act, 1961, (hereinafter referred to as the Corporation ) 
a list complying in all respects with the requirements of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 18 of that Act and thereafter whenever amounts re 
ferred to in sub -section ( 2 ) of section 18 of that Act are received 
from the Corporation , the transferee bank shall credit each of the 
accounts referred to in clause ( b ) above, within seven days from the 
date or dates on which the amounts are received , to the extent of the 
sums due to that account in accordance with sub - section ( 2 ) of section 

18 of that Act : 
Provided that -- 
( a ) It any account referred to in clause ( b ) has been closed or has 

matured for payment at the time when any amount for credit to 
that account is received from the Corporation , the payment to the 
person entitled to the said amount shall be made by the transferee 

bank in cash ; 
(b ) in case the person entitled to any amount referred to in clause ( b ) 

cannot be found or is not readily traceable , provision for the amount 
due to such person shall be made and accounted for separately on 
the books of the Corporation Itselt and it shall not be necessary for the 
Corporation to pay the amounts to the transterde bank unless 
the person antitled to the amount 1$ found or traced and the 


4410 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTILA $0 , 1886 [PART 1] 


Corporation has decided to make the payment in respect of that 

person through the transferee bank . 
( d ) On the prescribed date , the entire amount of the paid -up capital and re 

serves of the transferor bank shall be treated as provision for bad 
and doubtful debts and depreciation in other assets of the transferor 
bank and the rights of the members of the transferor bank shall; in 
relation to the transferee bank , be as provided for in paragraph (6 ) 

below . 
( 6 ) In respect of 
( a ) every account mentioned in clause (b ) of the preceding paragraph , the 

balance in the account, if any , remaining uncredited in terms of that 

clause and clause ( c ) and 
( b ) every share in the transferor bank , the amount which was treated as 


immediately before the prescribed date and / or the amount paid on 
account of the calls made by the transferee bank in pursuance of 

clause ( i ) below . 
shall be treated as a collection account and shall be entered as such on the books 
of the transferee bank and payments against the account shall be made in the 
following manner , namely : 

( i) the transferee bank shall call upon every person who on the prescribed 

date was registered as the holder of a share in the transferor bank 
(or who would have been entitled to be registered ) to pay within 
three months from such date as may be specified the uncalled amount 
remaining unpaid by him in respect of such shares and the calls in 
arrears , if any , and the transferee bank shall take all available steps 
having regard to the circumstances of each case to demand and 
enforce the payment of the amounts due under this clause , together 

with interest at six per cent. per annum for the period of the default ; 
( 11 ) the transferee bank shall, in respect of the advances , bills purchased and 

discounted , book debts and sundry debts and other assets , which are 
classified " Advances considered not readily realisable and / or bad or 
doubtful of recovery " , or which are or may be realisable wholly or 
purtly after the prescribed date in terms of paragraph ( 4 ) above, take 
all available steps having regard to the circumstances of each case to 
demand and enforce payment, provided , however , that if the amount 
of a debt or asset exceeds Rs. 3 , 000 , the transferee bank shall not, 

except with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India . 
( a ) enter into a compromise or arrangement with the debtor or any other 

person or write off any such debt or asset; 
( b ) sell or otherwise dispose of any securities transferred to it or any 

asset taken over by it ; 
(iii ) the transferee bank shall in adaltion take all available steps having 

regard to the circumstances of each case to demand and enforce the 
payment of the amounts , if any , awarded as damages by the High 
Court , against any promoter, director, manager or other officer of the 
transferor bank under section 45L of the Banking Companies Act , 
1949, read with section 45H thercof and also with scction 543 of the 

Companies Act , 1956 . 
( iv ) the transferee bank may, out of the realisations effected by it on account 

of the items mentioned in clauses ( i ) , ( ii ) and ( iii ) above, inake pay 
ment or provision in respect of any contingent liability to the extent 
that the provision made therefor under paragraph ( 5 ) ( a ) proves 10 
be inadequate , as also , with the prior approval of the Reserve Bank , 
in respect of any liability whether contingent or absolute which was 
not assessed in terms of paragraph ( 4 ) above and has arisen or been 

discovered on or after the prescribed date ; 
( v ) the transferee bank shall, out of the realisations effected by it on 

account of the items mentioned in clause (1), ( 11) and ( 111) above 
after deducting therefrom the expenditure incurred for the purpose 
and , with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India , such other ex 
penses as may be considered reasonable and the amount appropriated 
therefrom in terms of clause ( iv ) above, or out of the balance, if 


Sec . 3(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 21 , 1964 /KARTIKA 30 , 1896 4411 


any, which may be available from out of the provision in respect of 
contingent liabilities as reckoned for the purposes of this scheme 

after the extent of such liabilities has finally been ascertained : 
( a ) pay to the Corporation the amount received by the transferee bank 

from the Corporation under sub - section ( 2 ) of section 18 of the 
Deposit Insurance Corporation Act , 1961 and the amount, if any, 

provided for by the Corporation ; and 
( h ) pay , in the case of depositors in respect of whom no amounts have 

been received by the transferce bank from the Corporation , the 
amounts duc in respect of the collection accounts , and in the 
case of depositors in respect of whom any amounts have been re 
ceived by the transferee bank from the Corporation or have been 
provided for by the Corporation the balance if any duc to them 
in their collection accounts after the amounts due from the sald 
accounts to the Corporation in respect of the payment made or 
provided for by the Corporation have first been paid in accordance 
with the provisions of sub - clause ( a ) above : 


Provided that the amount due to the Corporation shall , if it becomes 

necessary so to do , be provided for on the books of the transferee 
bank and be paid to the Corporation in thc manner specifled in 
clause ( b ) of regulation 22 of the Deposit Insurance Corporation 
General Regulations, 1961: 


Provided further that the transferee bank shall make the payments referr 

ed to in clause (b ) above 
( 1) if the corresponding or similar account mentioned in clause ( b ) of 

paragraph ( 5 ) has not been closed or has not matured for pay 

ment, by credit to that account, and 
(II ) iſ the said account has been closed or has matured for payment, 

in cash ; 
(vi) The amounts due to the Corporation in terms of sub - clause ( a ) of clause 

( v ) above and the amounts due to the collection accounts of the de 
positors in terms of sub - clause (b ) of that clause shall rank equally 
among themselves , and if they cannot be paid in full shall abate 

in equal proportions; 
( vii ) After the payments referred to in clause ( v ) of this paragraph have 

been made or provided for in full, the transferce bank shall, out of 
the balance of the amounts referred to in clause ( v ) which may be 
available to it, make payments pro rata towards the amounts , if any. 

due to the accounts of the former shareholders of the transferor bank ; 
Provided that the transferee bank shall give to any person to whom any 

payment may be due under this clause such reasonable notice , not 
excecding thrce months and not being less than one month as it may 

consider appropriate of the payment being due, and 
( a ) if during the period of this notice a requcst has not been received 

in writing for the payment of the amount due in cash and if the 
amount of the payment due is also not less than the highest clos 
ing price of any ordinary share in the transferee banks as quoted 
on any recognised stock exchange on or immcdiately before the 
date on which the notice is issued , or where the ordinary share of 
the transferec bank is not quoted on any recognised stock exchange 
the price of the share as determined by the Reserve Bank , the 
transferce bank shall allot to the payee & share or shares in the 
transferee bank to the extent possible and disburse in cash the 

balance , if any, of the amount which may be due ; and 
(b ) if the conditions mentioned in sub - clause ( a ) above are not fulAlled 

the transferee bank shall disburse the amount in cash , 
Provided further that 
( a ) the allotment of the shares or the payments aforesaid shall in each 


notice of the payment falling due is deemed to have been served 
in accordance with the provisions of this scheme; and 


4412 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 30 , 1886 [PART 11 – 


( b ) the share capital of the transferee bank shall be deemed to have 

been increased , and notwithstanding the provisions of any enact 
ment, regulation or other instrument, it shall also be lawful for 
the transferee bank to issue the shares , in the manner and to 

the extent specified for the purposes of this scheme; 
(vill ) the amounts due to the collection accounts referred to in this para 

graph shall be deemed to be a liability of the transferee bank only 

to the extent provided for in this scheme; 
( ix ) on the expiry of twelve years from the prescribed date or such earlier 

period as the Central Government after consulting the Reserve Bank 
of India may specify for this purpose , any item referred to in clause 
(li) of this paragraph which may not have been realised by that 
date shall be valued by the transferee bank in consultation with the 
Reserve Bank and the transferee bank shall distribute any amount or 
amounts determined in the light of that valuation after deducting 
therefrom first any sum necessary for meeting the liabilities referred 
to in clause ( iv ) of this paragraph which may remain unsatisfied as 
on that date in the order and the manner provided in clauses ( v ) , 
(vl) and ( vil ) above . 


( 1 ) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any contract, ex 
press or implied , no interest shall accrue on account of a deposit or other liability 
in any account mentioned in paragraphs ( 5 ) and ( 8 ) after the date of the mora 
torlum except in respect of the staff security deposits mentioned in paragraph 
( 8 ) ( a ) and interest shall be paid only in respect of the new accounts opened 
with the transferee bank in terms of paragraph ( 5 ) and credited in accordance 
with the provisions of that or the next succeeding paragraph and only at such 
rates as the transferee bank may allow . 

( 8 ) No depositor or other creditor of the transferor bank shall be entitled to 
make any demand against the transferor bank or the transferee bank in respect 
of any llability of the transferor bank to him except to the extent prescribed by 
at scherne. 


(0 ) No suit or other legal proceedings shall le against the Central Govern 
mont, the Reserve Bank of India or the transferee or the transferor banks for 
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this 
sohorne , 

( 10 ) All the employees of the transferor bank other than those specified in 
the schedule referred to in the succeeding paragraph shall continue in service and 
bo deemed to have been appointed by the transferee bank at the same rernunera 
tion and on the same terms and conditions of seryice as were applicable to such 
Omployees immediately before the 15th August 1964 : 


Provided that the ernployees of the transferor bank who have, by notice in 
writing given to the transferor or the transferee bank at any time before the 
opiry of one month next following the date on which this scheme has been 
sanctioned by the Central Government, Intimated their intention of not becoming 
otrployees of the transferee bank , shall be entitled to the payment of such com 
pensation , if any, under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and 
ruch pension , gratuity , provident fund and other retirement benefits as may be 
ordinarily admissible under the rules or authorisations of the transferor bank 
immediately before the 15th August 1984 : 


Provided further that the transferee bank shall in respect of the employees 
of the transferor bank who are deemed to have been appointed as employees of 
the transferee bank be deemed also to have taken over llability for the payment of 
ratrenchment compensation in the event of their being retrenched while in the 
service of the transferee bank on the basis that their service has been continuous 
and has not been interrupted by their transfer to the transferee bank . 


(11) The persons specified in the schedule annexed to this scheme shall on 
the prescribed date cease to be the employees of the transferor bank and notwith 
standing anything contained in any law for the time being in force or any agree 
ment or contract , the persons so specified shall be entitled to and only to such 
pension , gratuity , provident fund and other retirement benefits as may be ordinari 
Iy admissible to them under the rules or authorisations of the transferor bank 
immediately before the 15th August 1964 ; 


Sec. $ (11)] 


THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 30 , 1886 4413 


Provided that the compensation if any for the loss of employment, 50 tar as 
it relates to the unexpired portion of any contract of service , shall be such and 
only as may be determined by the Reserve Bank (whose determination in this 
respect shall be final and binding ) ; 

Provided further that nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the transferee 
bank from re - employing any person whose name has been specificd in the schedule 
annexed to this scheme in such capacity and on such terms and conditions as the 
transferee bank deem At. 

( 12 ) The transferee bank shall, on the expiry of a period not longer than three 
years from the date on which this scheme is sanctioned , pay or grant to the 
employees of the transferor bank the same remuneration and the same terms and 
conditions of service as are applicable to the employees of corresponding rank 
or status of the transferee bank subject to the qualifications and experience of 
the said employees of the transferor bank being the same as or equivalent to 
those of such other employees of the transferee bank : 

Provided that if any doubt or difference arises as to whether the qualifications 
or experience of any of the said employees are the same as or equivalent to the 
qualifications and experience of the other employees of corresponding rank or 
status of the transferee bank or as to the procedure or principles to be adopted 
for the fixation of the pay of the employees in the scales of pay of the transferee 
bank , the doubt or difference shall be referred to the Reserve Bank of India 
whose decision thereon shall be final. 

( 13 ) The trustees or administrators of any provident fund constituted for the 
employees of the transferor bank or as the case may be the transferor bank 
shall on or as soon as possible after the prescribed date transfer to the trustees 
of the employees provident fund constituted for the transferee bank , or other 
wise as the transferee bank may direct , all the monies and Investments held in 
trust for the benefit of the employces of the transferor bank : 

Provided that such latter trustees shall not be liable for any deficiency in the 
value of investments , or in respect of any act, neglect , or default done before the 
prescribed date . 

( 14 ) The transferee bank shall submit to the Reserve Bank of India such 
statements and information as may be required by the Reserve Bank of India 
from time to time regarding the implementation of this scheme. 

(15 ) Any notice or other communication required to be given by the trans 
feree hank shall be considered to be duly given , if addressed and went by pre 
paid ordinary post to the addressee at the address registered in the books of the 
transferor bank , until A new address is registered in the books of the transferee 
bank , and such notice shall be deemed to be served on the expiry of fortyeight: 
hours after it has been posted . Any notice or communication which is of general 
Interest shall be advertised in addition in one or more daily newspapers which 
may be in circulation at the places where the transferor bank was transacting 
Its busine88. 

( 16 ) If any doubt arises in interpreting any of the provisions of this scheme, 
the matter shall be referred to the Reserve Bank of India and its opinion shall 
be conclusive and binding on both the transferee and transferor banks, and also 
on all the members , depositors and other creditors and employees of each of thege 
banks and on any other person having any rights or liability in relation to any 
of these banks. 

( 17) It any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this scheme, 
the Central Government may issue to the transferor and the trangferee banks or 
to either of them such directions not inconsistent with this scheme as may appear 
to the Central Government, after consulting the Reserve Bank of India , to be necos 
sary or appropriate for the purpose of removing the diMculty . 

Schedule attached to and forming part of the scheme for the amalgamation of 
the Thiyya Bank Ltd , as sanctioned by the Central Government under sub - 800 
tion ( 7 ) of section 45 of the Banking Companies Act , 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ). 


Names of the employees 


Designation in the 
transferor bank 


1, Shri N . K . Aravind 
2 , Shri C , P , Madhusoodnan 


Agent 

Agent 
(No. 17 ( 19 )- BC / 64 .1 


4414 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 / KARTIKA M . 1886 [PART II 


S . O . 3958. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 
45 of the Banking Companies Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) and in modification of this 


Central Government hereby directs that the order of moratorium made by it in 
respect of the Thiyya Bank Ltd ., Kottapuram , Cranganore , shall remain in force 
upto and including the 15th November, 1964 . 

[No. F . 17 ( 19 ) -BC /64 ( 1) .] 


Companies Act , 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) , the Central Government hereby specifies the 
16th November, 1964 as the prescribed date in relation to the scheme for the 
amalgamation of the Thiyya Bank Ltd , with the Lord Krishna Bank Ltd . which 
has been sanctioned by the Central Government under the provisions of the said 
sub - section , 

[No. F . 17 ( 19 ) -BC /64 (11 ) .] 


S . O . 3960 .- - Whereas on the application of the Reserve Bank of India under 
sub - section ( 1 ) of section 45 of the Banking Companies Act , 1949 (Act 10 of 1949 ) 
the Central Government has made an order of moratorium in respect of the 
Bareilly Bank Ltd ., Bareilly under sub - section ( 2 ) of the said section ; 

And whereas the Reserve Bank of India in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 45 of the said Act has prepared a scheme for the 
amalgamation of the Bareilly Bank Ltd ., Bareilly with the Benares State Bank 
Ltd ., Varanasi; 

And whereas the Reserve Bank after having sent the said scheme in draft 
to the banking companies concerned in accordance with the provisions of sub 
section ( 6 ) of the said section and after having considered the suggestions and 
objections received in regard to the said scheme has modified that scheme and 
forwarded it to the Central Government for sanction ; 

Now , therefore , in excrcise of thc powers conferred by sub -section ( 7 ) of 
section 45 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby sanctions the scheme 
on and subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter mentioned . 

( 1 ) The Bareilly Bank Ltd ., Bareilly shall be the transferor bank and the 
Benares State Bank Ltd ., Varanasi shall be the transferee bank , 

( 2 ) As from the date which the Central Government may specify for this 
purpose under sub - section ( 7 ) of section 45 of the said Act ( hereinafter referred 
to as the prescribed date ) all rights , powers , claims demands , interests , authorities . 
privileges, benefits , assets and properties of the transferor bank , movable and 
Immovable , including premises subject to all incidents of tenure and to the rents 
and other sums of money and covenants reserved by or contained in the leases 
or agreements under which they are held , all office furniture, loose equipment, 
plant, apparatus and appliances, books, papers. stocks of stationery, other 
stocks and stores , all Investments in stocks, shares and securities , all biils 
receivable in hand and in transit, all cash in hand and on current or deposit 
account ( including money at call or short notice ) with banks, bullion , all book 
debts , mortgage debts and other debts with the benefit of securities , or any 
guarantee therelor, all other , if any, property rights and assets of every descrip 
tion including all rights of action and benefit of all guarantecs in contection 
with the business of the transforor bank shall, subject to the other provisions 
of this scheme, stand transferred to , and become the properties and assets of, 
thc transferee bank ; and as from the prescribed date all the liabilities, duties 
and obilgations of the transferor bank shall be and shall become the liabilities , 
duties and obligations of the transferee bank to the extent and in the manner 
provided hereinafter . 

Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, all contracts , 
deeds, honds, agreements, powers of attorney, grønts of legal representation and 
other instruments of whatever nature subsisting or having effect immediately before 
the progrribed date shall be effective to the extent and in the manner hereinafter 
provided against or in favour of the transferee bank and may be acted upon as if 
instead of the transferor bank the transferee bank had been a party thereto or 
as if they had been issued in favour of the transferee bank . 


It on the prescribed datę any suit, appeal or other legal proceeding of what 
ever nature by or against the transferor bank is pending, the same shall not 


SEG. $ ( ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 / KARTIKA 30 , 1888 4415 


abate , or be discontinued or be in any way prejudicially affected , but shall, 
subject to the other provisions of this scheme, be prosecuted and enforced by or 
against the transferee bank , 

If according to the laws of any country outside India the provisions of this 
scheme, by themselves, are not effective to transfer or vest any asset or liability 
situated in that country which forms part of the undertaking of the transferor 
bank to or in the transferee bank , the affairs of the transferor bank in relation 
to such asset or liability shall, on the prescribed date , stand entrusted to the chief 
executive officer for the time being of the transferee bank and the chief executive 
officer may exercise all powers and do all such acts and things as would have 
been exercised or done by the transferor bank for the purpose of effectively 
winding up its affairs . The rhief executive oficer shall take all such steps as 
may be required by the laws of any such country outside India for the purpose 
of effecting transfer or vesting and in connection therewith the chief executive 
officer may, either himself or through any person authorised by him in this 
behalf , realise any asset or discharge any lability of the transferor bank and 
transfer the net proceeds thereof to the transferce bank . 


( 3 ) The books of the transferor bank shall be closed and balanced and 
balance sheets prepared in the first instance as at the close of business on the 
5th September 1964 and thereafter as at the close of business on the date imme 


and certified by a chartered accountant or a Arm of chartered accounts approved 
or nominated by the Reserve Bank of India for the purpose . 

A copy each of the balance sheets of the transferor bank prepared in accord 
ance with the provisions of the foregoing paragraph , shall be filed by the trans 
feror bank with the Registrar of Companies as soon as possible after it has been 
received and thereafter the transferor bank shall not be required to prepare 
balance sheets or profit and loss accounts , or to lay the same before its members 


general meeting for the purpose of considering the balance sheet and accounts 
or for any other purpose or to comply with the provisions of section 159 of the 
Companies Act, 1956 , and it shall not thereafter be necessary for the Board of 
Directors of the transferor bank to meet as required by section 285 of that Act . 


(4 ) I. The transferee bank shall. in consultation with the transferor bank , 
value the property and assets and reckon the liabilities of the transferor bank in 
accordance with the following provisions, namely 
( a ) Investments including Government securities shall be valued at the 

market rates prevailing on the day immediately preceding the pres 
cribed date provided that the securities of the Central Government 
such as Post Office Certificates , Treasury Savings Deposit Certificates 
and any other securities or certificates issued under the small savings 
scheme of the Central Government shall be valued at their face 
value or the encashable value as on the said date , whichever is 

higher . 
( b ) Where the market value of any Government security such as the 

Zamindari Abolition Bonds or other similar serurity in respect of 
which the principal is payable in instalments is not ascertainable or 
is, for any reason , not considered as reflecting the fair value thereof 
or as otherwise appropriate, the security shall be valued at such an 
amount as is considered reasonable having regard to the 
instalments of prinripal and interest remaining to be paid , the 
period during which such instalments are payable , the yield of any 
security issued by the Government to which the security pertains and 
having the same or approximately the same maturity, and other 

relevant factors. 
( c ) Where the market value of any security , share , debenture , bond or 

other investment is not considered reasonable by reason of its having 
been affected by abnormal factors , the investment may be yalued on 

the basis of its Average market value over any reasonable period . 
( d ) Where the market value of any security , share, debenture , bond or 

other Investment is not ascertainable , only such value, if any , shall 
be taken into account as is considered reasonable , having regard to 
the Anancial position of the issuing concern , the dividends paid by 
it during the preceding five years and other relevant factors , 


4416 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 80, 1880 [PART II 


( e ) Premises and all other immovable properties and any assets acquired 

in satisfaction of claims shall be valued at their market value. 
( f ) Furniture and fixtures, stationery in stock and other assets , if any . 

shall be valued at the written down value as per books or the realis 
able value as may be considered reasonable . 


( g ) Advances , including bllls purchased and discounted , books debts and 

sundry assets , will be scrutinised by the transferee bank and the 
securities, including guarantees , held as cover therefor examined and 
verified by the transferee bank . Thereafter , the advances, including 
portions thereof, will be classified into two categories , namely 
" Advances considered good and readily realisable " and " Advances 

considered not readily realisable and / or bad or doubtful of recovery" . 
II. Llabilities for purposes of this scheme shall include all contingent Habilities 
which the transferee bank may reasonably be expected or required to meet out 
of its own resources on or after the prescribed date . 

III. Where the valuation of any asset cannot be determined on the prescribed 
date , it may, with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India , be treated partly 
or wholly as an asset realisable at a later date . 

In the event of any disagreement between the transferee bank and the trans 
teror bank as regards the valuation of any asset or the classification of any 
advance or the determination of any liability , the matter shall be referred to 
the Reserve Bank of India , whose opinion shall be Anal, provided that until such 
an opinion is received , the valuation of the item or portion thereof by the trans 
feree bank shall provisionally bę adopted for the purpose of this scheme. 

It shall be competent for the Reserve Bank in the event of its becoming 
necessary to do so , to obtain such technical advice as it may consider to be 
appropriate in connection with the valuation of any such item of asset or determi 
nation of any such item of liability , and the cost of obtaining such advice shall 
be payable in full out of the assets of the transferor bank . 

The valuation of the assets and the determination of the llabilities in accord 
ance with the foregoing provisions shall be binding on both the banks and the 
numbers and creditors thereof. 


( 5 ) In consideration of the transfer of the property and the assets of the 
transferor bank to the transferee bank , the transferee bank shall discharge the 
Habilities of the transferor bank to the extent mentioned in this and the succeed 
ing paragraphs . 


bank as staff security deposits together with Interest, if any, accrued 
thereon upto the prescribed date and all other outside liabilities as 
on the prescribed date excluding deposits shall be paid or provided 

for in full. 
Explanation . For the purposes of this paragraph , Interest payable on a 

deposit upto the prescribed date shall be regarded as part of the 

concerned deposit. 
( b ) In respect of every savings bank account or current account or any 

other deposit including a Axed deposit , cash certificate , monthly 
deposit, deposit payable at call or short notice or any other deposit 
by whatever name called with the transferor bank and every other 
account not covered by clause ( a ) , including interest to the extent 
payable under this scheme, the transferee bank ghall open with 
itself on the prescribed date a corresponding and similar account in 
the name of the respective holder ( s ) thereof crediting thereto the 
PTO tata share available in respect of each of the accounts out of 
the assets referred to in paragraph ( 4 ) Ag valued for the purposes 
of this scheme on the prescribed date , after excluding from the said 
assets as SO valued the advances considered not readily realisable 
or bad or doubtful of recovery , any agget or portion of an asset not 


ments or provisions mentioned at clause ( A ) above and after adding 
to the said assets as so valued the Aggregate amount of the payments 
made in terms of clause ( a ) ( 1 ) of paragraph 2 of the moratorium 
order dated the $ th September 1964 issued to the transferor bank ; 


So . ( 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 80 , 1886 4417 


Provided that any payment made from a deposit account on or after the 

6th September 1964 and before the prescribed date , shall be 
reckoned towards the amount to be credited under this sub -para 
graph and , accordingly the amount to be credited shall be the pro 
rata share less the amount of such payment ; 


Provided further that where the transferee bank entertains a reasonable 

doubt about the correctness of the entries made in any particular 
account, it may , with the approval of the Reserve Bank , withhold 
the credit to be made in that account in terms of clause (b ) above 
till the transferee bank 18 able to ascertain the correct balance in 
such account. 


Explanation . The term pro rata shall, in so far as It occurs in this 

paragraph , mean in proportion to the respective amounts remain 
ing due as at the close of business on the 5th September 1964 
( inclusive of interest payable up to that date ) and shall, in so far 
as it occurs elsewhere in this scheme, mean in proportion to the 
respective amounts remaining due at the time of the payment or 
distribution . 


( c ) Alter the credits referred to in clause (b ) above have been afforded , 

the transferee bank shall , with the least possible delay but in any 
case not later than three months from the prescribed date , furnish 
to the Deposit Insurance Corporation established under the Deposit 
Insurance Corporation Act , 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the Cor 
poration ) a list complying in all respects with the requirements of 
sub -section ( 1 ) of section 18 of that Act and thereafter whenever 
amounts referred to in sub - section ( 2 ) of section 18 of that Act are 
received from the Corporation , the transferee bank shall credit each 
of accounts referred to in clause ( b ) above, within seven days from 
the date or dates on which the amounts are received , to the extent 
of the sums due to that account in accordance with sub - section ( 2 ) 
of section 18 of that Act : 


Provided that , 
( a ) if any account referred to in clause ( b ) has been closed or has matured 

for payment at the time when any amount for credit to that 
account, is recelved from the Corporation , the payment to the 
person entitled to the said amount shall be made by the transferee 
bank In cash ; 


(b ) In case the person entitled to any amount referred to in clause ( b ) 

cannot be found or is not readily traceable , provision for the 
amount due to such person shall be made and accounted for 
separately on the books of the Corporation itself and it shall not 
be necessary for the Corporation to pay the amounts to the trans 
feree bank unless the person entitled to the amount is found or 
traced and the Corporation has decided to make the payment in 
respect of that person through the transferee bank . 


( d ) On the prescribed date , the entire amount of the paid -up capital and 

reserves of the transferor bank shall be treated as provision for 
bad and doubtful debts and depreciation in other assets of the trans 
teror bank and the rights of the members of the transferor bank 
shall , in relation to the transferee bank , be as provided for in para 
graph ( 8 ) below . 


( 6 ) In respect of 
( a ) every account mentioned in clause ( b ) of the preceding paragraph , the 

balance in the account, if any, remaining uncredited in terms of that 
clause and clause ( c ) and 


(b ) every share in the transferor bank , the amount which was treated as 

pald -up towards share capital by or on behalf of each shareholder 
Immediately before the prescribed date and / or the amount paid on 
account of the calls made by the transferee bank in pursuance of 
clause ( 1) below 


M18 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 / KARTIKA $ 0 , 1886 PART II 


shall be treated as a collection account and shall be entered as such on the books 
of the transferee bank and payments against the account shall be made in the 
following manner , namely : 
( i ) the transferee bank shall call upon every person who on the prescribed 

date was registered as the holder of a share in the transferor bank 
( or who would have been entitled to be so registered ) to pay within 
three months from such date as may be specifled the uncalled 
amount remaining unpaid by him in respect of such shares and the 
calls in arrears , if any, and the transferee bank shall take all avail 
able steps having regard to the circumstances of cach case to demand 
and enforce the payment of the amounts due under this clause , 
together with interest at six per cent per annum for the period of 

the default ; 
( 11) the transferee bank shall , in respect of the advances, bills purchased 

and discounted , book debts and sundry debts and other assets , which 
are classified as " Advances considered not readily realisable and / or 
bad or doubtful of recovery " , or which are or may be realisable 
wholly or partly after the prescribed date in terms of paragraph ( 4 ) 
above , take all available steps having regard to the circumstances of 
each case to demand and enforce payment, provided , however , that 
if the amount of a debt or asset exceeds Rs. 3, 000 , the transferee bank 

shall not, except with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India , 
( a ) enter into a compromise or arrangement with the debtor or any other 

person or write off any such debt or asset : 
(b ) sell or otherwise dispose of any securities transferred to it or any 

asset taken over by it ; 
( 111 ) the transferee bank shall in addition take all available steps having 

regard to the circumstances of each case to demand and enforce the 
payment of the amounts, if any, awarded as damages by the High 
Court against any promoter, director, manager or other officer of the 
transferor bank under section 45L of the Banking Companies Act , 
1949 read with section 45H thereof and also with section 543 of the 

Companies Act, 1956 ; 
( lv ) the transferee bank may , out of the realisations effected by it on 

account of the items mentioned in clauses ( i ) , ( li ) and ( 11 ) above 
make payment or provision in respect of any contingent liability to 
the extent that the provision made therefor under paragraph ( 5 ) ( a ) 
proves to be inadequate , as also with the prior approval of the 
Reserve Bank , in respect of any liability whether contingent or 
absolute which was not assessed in terms of paragraph (4 ) above and 

has arisen or been discovered on or after the prescribed date : 
( v ) the transferee bank shall, out of the realisations effected by it on account 

of the items mentioned in clauses ( i ) , ( 11 ) and ( 111 ) above after 
aeducting therefrom the expenditure incurred for the purpose and , 
with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India , such other expenses 
as may be considered reasonable and the amount appropriated there 
from in terms of clause ( lv ) above, or out of the balance , if any , 
which may be available from out of the provision in respect of con 


the extent of such liabilities has finally been ascertained , - 
( a ) pay to the Corporation the amount received by the transferee bank 

from the Corporation under sub - section (2 ) of section 18 of the 
Deposit Insurance Corporation Act , 1961 and the amount, if any , 

provided for by the Corporation , and 
(b ) pay , in the case of depositors in respect of whom no amounts have 

been received by the transferee bank from the Corporation , the 
amounts due in respect of the collection accounts , and in the case 
of depositors in respect of whom any amounts have been received 
by the transferee bank from the Corporation or have been pro 
vided for by the Corporation the balance 11 any due to them in 
their collection accounts after the amounts due from the said 
accounts to the Corporation in respect of the payment made or pro 
vided for by the Corporation have Arst been paid in accordance 
with the provisions of sub - clause ( a ) above : 


SEC : 3 (in ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 / KARTIKA 30, 1886 4419 


Provided that the amount due to the Corporation shall, it it becomes 

necessary so to do , be provided for on the books of the transferee bank 
and be paid to the Corporation in the manner specifed in clause ( b ) 
of regulation 22 of the Deposit Ingurance Corporation General 

Regulations, 1981: 
Provided further that the transferee bank shall make the payments referred 

to in clause ( b ) above, 
(1 ) if the corresponding or similar account mentioned in clause (b ) of 

paragraph ( 5 ) has not been closed or has not matured for payment, 

by credit to that account, and 
( u ) it the said account has been closed or has matured for payment, in 

cash ; 
( vi ) The amounts due to the Corporation in terms of sub -clause (a ) of 

clause ( v ) above and the amounts due to the collection accounts of 
the depositors in terms of sub - clause ( b ) of that clause shall rank 
equally among themselves, and I they cannot be paid in full shall 

Abate in equal proportions; 
( vii) After the payments referred to in clause ( v ) of this paragraph have 

been made or provided for in full , the transferee bank shall, out of 
the balance of the amounts referred to in clause ( v ) which may be 
available to it, make payments pro rata towards the amounts , if any, 
due to the accounts of the former shareholders of the transferor 
bank ; 


Provided that the transferee bank shall give to any person to whom any 


exceeding three months and not being less than one month as it may 

consider appropriate of the payment being due, and 
( a ) I during the period of this notice a request has not been received 

in writing for the payment of the amount due in cash and if the 
amount of the payment due is also not less than the highest closing 
price of an ordinary share in the transferee bank as quoted on 
any recognised stock exchange on or immediately before the date 
on which the notice is issued , or where the ordinary share of the 
transferee bank is not quoted on any recognised stock exchange 
the price of the share as determined by the Reserve Bank , the 
transferee bank sball allot to the payee a share or shares in the 
transferee bank to the extent possible and disburse in cash the 

balance, if any , of the amount which may be due; and 
( b ) If the conditions mentioned in sub - clause ( 2 ) above are not fulAlled 

the transferee bank shall disburse the amount in cash , 


Provided further that , 
( a ) the allotment of the shares or the payments aforesaid shall in each 

case be made before the end of six months from the date on which 
notice of the payment falling due is deemed to have been served 

In accordance with the provisions of this scheme; and 
(b ) the share capital of the transferee bank shall be deemed to have been 

Increased , and notwithstanding the provisions of any enactment, 
regulation or other instrument, it shall also be lawful for the trans 
ferçe bank to issue the shares, in the manner and to the extent 

specified for the purposes of this scheme; 
Kvill) the aniounts due to the collection accounts referred to in this paragraph 

shall be deemed to be a liability of the transferee bank only to the 

extent provided for in this scheme; 
( Lx ) on the expiry of twelve years from the prescribed date or such earlier 

period as the Central Government after consulting the Reserve Bank 
of India may specify for this purpose, any Item referred to in clause 
( il) of this paragraph which may not have been realised by that date 
shall be valued by the transferee bank in consultation with the 
Reserve Bank and the transferee bank shall distribute any amount 
or amounts dctermined in the light of that valuation after deducting 


4420 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 41 , 1964 /KARTILA 30 , 1886 (PART II 


therefrom first any such necessary for meeting the lablütleg referred 
to in clause ( lv ) of this paragraph which may remain unsatisfied as 
on that date in the order and the manner provided in clauses ( v ) , 
( vi ) and ( vil) above. 


( 7 ) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any contract . 
express or implied , no interest shall accrue on account of a deposit or other 
llabuilty in any account mentioned in paragraphs ( 5 ) and (6 ) after the date of 
the moratorium except in respect of the staff security deposits mentioned in 
paragraph ( 5 ) ( a ) and interest shall be paid only in respect of the new accounts 
opened with the transferee bank in terms of paragraph (5 ) and credited in 
accordance with the provisions of that or the next succeeding paragraph and only 


( 8 ) No depositor or other creditor of the transferor bank shall be entitled to 
make any demand against the transferor bank or the transferee bank in respectu 
of any liability of the transferor bank to him except to the extent prescribed 
by this scheme. 

( 9 ) No suit or other legal proceedings shall lle against the Central Govern 
ment, the Reserve Bank of India or the transferee or the transferor banks for 
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this 
scheme. 

( 10 ) All the employees of the transferor bank other than those specified in 
the schedule referred to in the succeeding paragraph shall continue in service 
and be deemed to have been appointed by the transferee bank at the same 
remuneration and on the same terms and conditions of seryice as were applicable 
to such employees Immediately before the 6th September 1964 : 

Provided that the employees of the transferor bank who have, by notice in 
writing given to the transferor or the transferee bank at any time before the 
expiry of one month next following the date on which this scheme has been 
sanctioned by the Central Government, Intimated their intention of not becoming 
employees of the trangferee bank , shall be entitled to the payment of such com 
pensation , if any , under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and 
such pension , gratulty , provident fund and other retirement benefits as may be 
ordinarily admissible under the rules or authorisations of the transferor bank 
immediately before the 6th September 1984 : 

Provided further that the transferee bank shall in respect of the employees 
of the transferor bank who are deemed to have been appointed as employees of 
the transferee bank be deemed also to have taken over Hability for the payment 
of retrenchment compensation in the event of their being retrenched whfle in the 
service of the transferee bank on the basis that their service has been continuous 
and has not been interrupted by their transfer to the transferee bank . 

( 11 ) The persons specified in the schedule annexed to this scheme shall on 
the prescribed date cease to be the employees of the transferor bank and notwith 
standing anything contained in any law for the time being in force or any agree 
ment or contract , the persons so specified shall be entitled to and only to such 
pension , gratuity , provident fund and other retirement benefits as may be ordi 
narlly admissible to them under the rules or authorisations of the transferor bank 
Immediately before the 6th September 1964 : 

Provided that the compensation If any for the loss of employment, so far as 


only such as may be determined by the Reserve Bank (whose determination in 
this respect shall be final and binding) : 

Provided further that nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the transferee 
bank from re - employing any person whose name has been specified in the schedule 
annexed to this scheme in such capacity and on such terms and conditions as the 
transferee bank may deem At . 

( 12 ) The transferee bank shall, on the expiry of a period not longer than 
three years from the date on which this scheme is sanctioned , pay or grant to 
the employees of the transferor bank the same remuneration and the same terms 
and conditions of service as are applicable to the employees of corresponding 
rank or atatus of the transferee bank subject to the qualifcations and experience 
of the said employees of the transferor bank being the same as or equivalent to 
those of such other employees of the transteree bank : 


Sec. 3 ( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 80, 1886 4421 


Provided that if any doubt or difference arises as to whether the qualifications 
or experience of any of the said employees are the same as or equivalent to the 
qualifications and experience of the other employees of Corresponding rank or 
status of the transferee bank or as to the procedure or principles to be adopted 
for the fixation of the pay of the employees in the scales of pay of the transferee 
bank , the doubt or difference shall be referred to the Reserve Bank of India whose 
decision thereon shall be final, 

( 13 ) The trustees or administrators of any provident fund constituted for the 
employees of the transferor bank or as the case may be the transferor bank shall 
on Or as soon as possible after the prescribed date transfer to the trustees of 
the employees provident fund constituted for the transferee bank , or otherwise 
as the transferee bank may direct , all the monies and Investments held in trust for 
the benefit of the employees of the transferor bank ; 

Provided that such latter trustees shall not be liable for any deficiency in the 
value of investments , or in respect of any act, neglect , or default done before the 
prescribed date . 

( 14 ) The transferee bank shall submit to the Reserve Bank of India such state 
ments and Information as may be required by the Reserve Bank of India from 
time to time regarding the implementation of this scheme. 

( 15 ) Any notice or other communication required to be given by the transferee 
bank shall be considered to be duly given , 11 addressed and sent by pre -paid 
ordinary post to the addressee at the address registered in the books of the trans 
teror bank until a new address is registered in the books of the transferee bank , 
and such notice shall be deemed to be served on the expiry of fortyeight hours 
after it has been posted . Any notice or communication which is of general 
Interest shall be advertised in addition in one or more daily newspapers which 
may be in circulation at the places where the transferor bank was transacting 
its business . 

( 16 ) If any doubt arises in Interpreting any of the provisions of this scheme, 
the matter shall be referred to the Reserve Bank of India and its opinion shall 
be conclusive and binding on both the transferee and the transteror banks, and 
also on all the members , depositors and other creditors and employees of each 
of these banks and on any other person having any rights or liability in relation 
to any of these banks. 


( 17 ) Ir any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this scheme, 
the Central Government may issue to the transferor and the transferee banks or 
to either of them such directions not inconsistent with this scheme as may appear 
to the Central Government, after consulting the Reserve Bank of India , to be 
necessary or appropriate for the purpose of removing the difficulty . 

Schedule attached to and forming part of the scheme for the amalgamation of 
the Bareilly Bank Ltd . as sanctioned by the Central Government under sub - section 
( 7 ) of section 45 of the Banking Companies Act , 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) . 


Name of the employee 


Designation in the 
transferor bank 


1. Shri C . L . Sangal 
2 . Shri S . P . Misra 
3 . Shri R . K . Khandelwal 
4 . Shri Ram Saroop 


General Manager 
Manager , Head Ofice 


Manager , Bazar branch , Bareilly, 


[No. 17 (21 )-BC / 64 . ) 


S . O . 3961, - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
45 of the Banking Companies Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) , and in modification of this 
Department s Notification No. F . 17 ( 21) - BC / 64 dated the 5th September , 1964 


It in respect of the Bareilly Bank Ltd ., Bareilly , sholl remain in force upto and 
including the 15th November , 1984 . 

(No . P . 17 (21) -BC / 64 (1). ] 


4422 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 30 , 1886 [ PART II 


$ . O . 3962. - In pursuance of sub - section ( 7 ) of Section 45 of the Banking 
Companies Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) , the Central Government hereby specifies the 
16th November , 1964 as the prescribed date in relation to the scheme for the 
amalgamation of the Bareilly Bank Ltd . with the Benares State Bank Ltd . which 
has been sanctioned by the Central Government under the provisions of the said 
gub - section . 

[No. F . 17 (21) - BC / 64 (ii ).] 


New Delhi, the 11th November 1964 
S . O , 3963. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act , 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) , the Central Government , on the recommenda 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that the provisions of section 9 
of the said Act shall not apply to the Nalni Tal Bank Ltd ., Naini Tal in respect 
of the property held by it at Norfolk Estate , Naini Tal till the 29th August 1965 . 

[No. F . 15 (21) -BC /14. ) 
B . J . HEERJEE , Under Secy . 


Seo,3(11)] 


R 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 21st November 1964 
S . O . 3964 . - Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , * on the 30th October, 1964 

BANKING DEPARTMENT 
LUABILITIBS 

Арт 

Rs. 
Capital peid up · · 5, 00 ,00 ,000 Notes 

34 , 14 , 58 , 000 
Rupee Cotn : : : : : : : : : 

9 . 49 , 000 
Reserve Fund 80 , 00 ,00 ,000 Small Coin 

9 ,27 ,000 
National Agricultural Credit (Long 

NationalAgriculturalCredit (Long Term Operations) Pund 
Term Operations) Fund 

86 ,000 woo ( a ) Loans and Advances to : 
State Governments 

28 ,21, 70 , 000 
National Agriculural Crodit (6 ) State Co -operative Banks . . 

11,86 ,33,000 
9 , 00 ,00 , 000 

( 1) Central Land Mortgage Banks , 
National Industrial Credit (Long 

(1 ) Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank Debentures . 4 ,41,53 , 000 
Tera Operations) Fund 

10 ,00 ,00 , 000 Nacional Agricultural Credit ( Stabilisation ) Fund 

Loans and Advances to State Co - operative Banko 
Deposits 

National Industrial Credit Long Term Operations) Fund 

( a ) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank 
( a ) Government : 

(6 ) Investment in bonds / debentures issued by the Deve 
Central Government . , 

95 , 9341, 000 

lopment Bank 
( ) State Governments . . 11, 72 , 58, 000 Bilis purchased and discounted : 

(a ) Internal 
(5 ) Banks : 

5 ) External 
(c) Government Treasury Bills 

181, 8540 ,000 
U Scheduled Banks 89, 14 , 79, 000 Balances held Abroed * 

8 , 32 ,79 ,000 
D ) State Co -operative Banks . 3 , 15 , 98,000 Loans and Advances to Governments * * 

47 ,26 , 56 , 000 
a ) Other Banks . . . 

1 ,46 , 000 Loans and Advances t03 
(1) Scheduled Bankst 

1,68 ,25, 000 
(c) Others . . . . . 142, 16, 14 ,000 ( 0 ) State Co- operative Bankett 

158 ,39,78 ,000 
( ) Others 

206 , 58 ,000 
Bills Payable 42 ,64, 95 , 000 Investments 

104 , 39 ,48 , 000 
Other Liabilities 35 ,22 ,85 ,000 Other Anet 

27 ,20 ,72 ,000 
Rupees 610 ,02 , 16 , 000 

Rupees 

610 ,02, 16 ,000 
Includes Cash and Short- term Securities , 
* * Excluding Loans and Advances from thự National Agricultural Credit (Long Terme Operations) Fund , but including tempoary overdrafts to 

State Governments . 
Iocluido Rs. Nil adanced to scheduled banks against usance bills under section 17 ( 4 ) ( c ) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 
+ + Eccluding Loans and Advances from the Natioa ] Agricwrural Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit 

( Stabilisation ) Pund . 
Dated the 4th day of November, 1964. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDLA:NOVEMBER21,1964/KARTIKA80,18864423 


An Accomo pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act , 1934 , for the week ended the 30th day of October 1904. 

Issue DEPARTHENT 


LIABILITIES 


RS. 


- 


Re. 


ASTS 


Rs . 


RE 


Gold Coin and Bullion : 

(a ) Held in Lodis 


117, 70 , 19 000 


Notes held in the banking Depart 

ment 
Nota ta circulation 
Total Notes lesged 


34, 14 ,58000 
2397,27 , 85,000 


(6 ) Held outside India 


2431,42,43,000 


85,45,69,000 


Foreign Securities 

TOTAL . . 
Ropee Coin 
Government of India Rupee Securities 
Latarnal Bills of Exchange and other 
commerdal paper . . 

TOTAL ASST . 


203 ,21,79 ,000 
107,03, 92 , 000 
2121, 16 ,72 ,000 


4424THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER21,1904/KARTIKA80,1886(PART1 


TOTAL LIABLITT S 


2431,42 , 43 ,000 


2431, 42 ,43, 000 


M . V . RANGACHARI, 
Deputy Governor . 


Dated the 4th day of November , 1964 . 


(No. P . 3(2 )- BC /64- ] 

R K . SESHADRI, 
Director (Banking & Insurance ). 


Sic . ( if) ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDTA : NOVEMBER 21 , 1964 /KARTIKA 30 , 1886 4425 


(Department of Revenue & Company Law ) 

INCOME- TAX ESTABLISHMENTS 

New Delhi, the 31st October 1964 
S . O . 3965 - Consequent on his posting as Income- tax Officer , Delhi, the powers 
conferred on Shri J . P . Malhotra by NotiAcation No. 40 - Income tax Establish 
ments , dated the 29th May , 1963, issued by the Ministry of Finance ( Department 
of Revenue ), are hereby withdrawn with effect from the afternoon of 19th October , 
1964 . 

[No. 247 .] 


8 . 0 . 3966 .- In pursuance of clause ( b ) of sub - rule ( ii) of rule 2 of the 
Appellate Tribunal Rules , 1946, the Government of India has been pleased to 
appoint Şhrl G . N . Gupta , Income-tax Officer , Class I and lately working as, 
Assistant Director of Inspection ( Income-tax ) as Authorised Representative 
Income-tax Appellate THbunal, Delhi with effect from the afternoon of 19th , 
October , 1964, to appear , plead and act for any Income-tax authority who is a 
party to any proceedings before the Income- tax Appellate Tribunal . 


M . G . THOMAS. Under Secy . 


(Department of Revenue & Company Law ) 

ESTATE DUTY 


S . O . 3967. — The Central Government hereby renews for a further period of 
three years with effect from the 13th October , 1964 , the appointment of the under 
mentioned Valuers whose names were previously published in Part II, Section 
3 ( 11) of the Gazette of India date the 14th October , 1961. 

The scale of charges for the remuneration of Valuers appointed by the Central 
Government for valuing any property shall be as fixed below and no such Valuer 
shall charge a fee at a scale higher than the scale so fixed . 
Provided that where two or more properties are required to be valued : 
( 1) by a Committee of Arbitration or by a third Valuer in pursuance of a 

single order, or 
( 11 ) by a valuer , in pursuance of a single reference made by a Controller 

of Estate Duty or at the instance of an accountable person , 
all such properties shall be deemed to constitute a single unit of property for 
the purposes of Axing the fee payable to the Committee or the Valuer , as the case 
may be. 


Scale of charges 
On the first Rs. 50 , 000 ) - of the property 80 valued . . . 1 % of the value 
On the next Rs, 1,00,000/- of the property so valued . . * % of the value 
On the balance of the property so valued . . . . 1/8 % of the value. 

I, ENGINEERS/SURVEYORS/ARCHITECTS 


Name 


Address 


No. 


I ShriAyer , S . T . 
yer , S . T . 

. i . . . 5 , Palav Sudan , Jerbal Wadia Road, Parel, 

. . Bombay - 12 . 
2 Shri Chhapia , V . K ., B .E. (Civil), Afli Chambers , Medowe Street , Fort, Bombay . 

A . M . I. E . T . (Lond .). 
3 Shri Goregaoker, Vasant K ., G . D . (Arch .) Rajabahadur Bansilal Mansion , 11, Bruce Street, 

A . I.I . A . , A . I. A . A . & S . (Lond.). 


4426 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 30, 1886 (PART II 


Sl. No . 


Name 


Address 


4 Shri Mistry , Manilal C ., B . A ., B . E . 

(Civil) , A . M . I. E . ( Ind .) . 
5 Shri Pancholy, H . M ., B . E ., A . M .I. E . 
6 Shri Patkar, B . B ., B .E ., M . I.E . (Ind .) 
7 Shri Shah , Manikchand Raojibhai, 

B . Sc ., B . E . A . M . I. E , (Ind.) . 
8 Shri Thakker, M . M ., (B . E . (Civil ), 

A . M . I. E . (Ind .) . 


Madhu-Malti, Gandhi Bridge, Railway Crossing 

Ahmedabad - 9 . 
13 , Saraswati Society, Ahmedabad - 7. 
“ Prakash " , Shivaji Park, Road No. 3 , Bombay -28. 
Ratan Lodge Block 1, 9 , King s Circle , Matunga 

Bombay - 19 . 
10 , Junction Plot, Rajkot (Gujarat.) 


A . M .LE . (Ind .). 
10 Shri Apte, V . G ., B . E .- A . M .I. E . 31, Narayan Bagh , Indore." 
II Shri Vaishampayan , V . V ., B . Sc., B .E . 135, Tilak Path , Indore . 
" 12 Shri Khanna , P . N ., M . I. M .E . ( Lond .). 114 , Darya Gan ), Delhi-6 . 

13 Shri Iyer , A . Nageswara , B .E . . . 36/2 , Harrington Road , Madras - 30 . 
14 Shri Narayana, P , S . , . , Director , The Engineering & Mineral Industrial 

Research Laboratory Mines Housc Malles 

waram , Bangalore - 3 . 
15 Shri K . Papa Raq , B . E ., (Civil), 99, Himayath Nagar, Hyderabad ( Andhra Pradesh ). 

A . M . I. E . ( Ind .). 
16 Shri Rajagopalan , S., M .I.E .(Ind.). Guru Vilas, Kutchery Road , Madras-4. 


I Shri Bal, G . R ., G .D .A ., F .C .A . 


. 


C /o . M /s. Bal & Patankar, 50 /56 , Custom House 

Road , Nagree Building, Fort , Bombay. 


[No, 53/ F . No, 5 /58 /64 - ED .] 

G . R . HEGDE , Dy. Secy . 


( Department of Revenue and Company Law ) 

New Delhi, the 13th November , 1964 
S . O . 8968. — In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 126X read with item 
(11) of clause ( d ) of sub - rule (2 ) vf rule 126H of the Defence of India Rules , 1962, 
the Central Government hereby authorises the State Bank of India to atgure 
from the Government of India Mint, Bombay, for and on behalf of the Administra 
tor, primary gold of a purity exceeding fourteen carats subject to the condition 
that the said Bank shall not by ftself or through its agent sell, or otherwise 
transfer or agree to sell or otherwise transfer any such primary gold to any person 
or Institution unless such person or institution holds a permit under Part XIIA 
of the said Rules for the acquisition of gold , 

[No. F . 13 / 18 /64-GC . II . ] 
B . D . PANDE, Addl. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

(RUBBER CONTROL ) 

New Delhi, the 9th November 1964 
$ . 0 , 3969 . — Dr. Rar Varma, ex - Chairman , Rubber Board , Kottayam , has 
treen granted a further a tension of earned leave upto the 12th November , 1964, 
Aind in continuation le 17 on half average pay upto 11th January, 1965. 

[No. F . 21 (4 ) Plant ( B ) / 81. ] 


SED. $ (11) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 30 , 1886 4427" 


( COFFEE CONTROL ) 

New Delhi, the 12th November 1964 
S . O . 3970. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( c ) of sub - section 
( 2 ) of section 4 of the Coffee Act, 1942 ( 7 of 1942 ) read with clause ( a ) of sub 
rule ( 2 ) of rule 3 of the Coffee Rules , 1955 , the Central Government hereby 
appoints the Secretary to the Government of Mysore, Agriculture and Forest 
Department, as a member of the Coffee Board to represent the Government of 
Mysore in place of the Director of Agriculture Government of Mysore , Bangalore , 
who has resigned his membership thereof, and directs that the following further 
amendment shall be made in the notification of the Government of India in the 
late Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. Ş . Q . 1194 dated the 19th April, 1962 , 
namely : 

In the said notification , for Item 1 and the entries relating thereto , the follow 
ing item and entries shall be substituted , namely : 
“ ( 1 ) — The Secretary to the Government of Mysore ; Representative of the 

Agriculture and Forest Department, Government of 
Bangalore . 

Mysore ." 
[No: F . 1 ( 1) Plant ( B ) / 62 .] 
B . KRISHNAMURTHY, Under Secy . . 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY AND SUPPLY 
(Department of Industry.) , 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 9th November 1964 
8 . 0 , 3971 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of the Industries 
(Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951, ( 65 of 1951) read with rules 2 , 4 , and 5 of 
the Development Councils (Procedurat) Rules, 1952, the Central Government hereby 
appoints , for a period of two years with effect from the 17th October , 1964 , the 
following persons to be members of the Development Council for the scheduled " 
industries engaged in the manufacture or production of sugar, in place of members - 
appointed under the Government of India , late Ministry of Commerce and Industry 
Order No . S . O . 3443 dated the 9th November , 1962, as amended from time to time, 
whose term of office has expired by efflux of time or otherwise : - - 


" Development Council for Sugar 
1. The Secretary , Department of Food, Ministry of Food & Agriculture, New 

Delhi ( Ex -Opcio ) - Chairman . 


2 . The Joint Secretary incharge of Sugar , Ministry of Food and Agriculture. 

( Dcpartment of Food ) , New Delhi ( Ex -Oficio ) . 
3 . Shri D . R . Narang, 2, Mall Avenuc , Lacknono : 
4 . Shri S . Jaipuria , M .P ., Swadeshi Housc , Civil Lines , Kanpur. 
5 . Shri R . P . Nevatla, Hindustan Sugar Mills Limited , Jebant Wadia Build 

Ing . Mahatma Gandhi Road, Bombay . 
6 . Shri S . K . Somaiya, Godavari Sugar Mills Ltd ., Fazalbhoy Building , 

Mahatma Gandhi Road , Bombay . 
7. Professor D . R . Gadgil, President of the National Federation , Gokhale 

Institute of Politics & Economics, Poona - 4 . 
8 . Shri P . S . Rajagopal Naidu , Vice - President of National Federation , " Premi 

Kutir " , 11 , Infantry Road , Vellore (Madras State ) . 
9 . The Chief Director, Directorate of Sugar and Vanaspati, Jamnagar House , 

New Delhi (Ex -Officio ) . 
10 . The Director, National Sugar Institute , Post Box No. 16 , Kanpur (Ex 

Officio ) . 
11. The Director , Indian Institute of Sugarcane. Research , P . O . Dikusha, Raf 

Bareli Road , Lucknow ( Ex - Oficio ) . . 


4428 THE GAZETTE OF INDA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 80, 1886 [PART II 


19. The Cake Hydera .comperative Society 


* 12 . Dr. H , G . R . Reddy , Development Officer , Dte . General of Technical 

Development, Ministry of Industry & Supply , Udyog Bhavan , New 

Delhi. 
13 . The Cane- cum - Sugar Commissioner, U .P ., Lucknow (Ex-Officio ) . 
14. The Cane Commissioner , Bihar, Patria (Ex - Oficio ) . 
15 , The Director of Industries & Commerce, Government of Mysore, Banga 

lote (Ex -Officio ) . 
16 . Shri T . N . Lakshminarayanan , Secretary to the Government of Madras, 

Industries, Labour & Cooperation Deptt., Madras ( Ex - Offcio ) . 
17. Shri A . W . Khan , Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies (Sugar ), Stato 

Government of Maharashtra (Poona ) ( Ex -Officio ) . 
18 . The Registrar.pf Cooperative Societies , State Government of Andhra Pra 

desh , Hyderabad ( Ex - OĦcio ) . 
19 . The Cane Commissioner Punjab , Chandigarh ( Ex -omclo ). 
20 . Dr. B . L Amla , Chairman , Industries Research , Consultancy & Extension , 

Central Food Technological Research Institute , Mysore . 
21. The Vice President, Indian Central Sugarcane Committee , 19 , Rhotak Road , 

New Delhi, 
12 . The Executive Director, National Productivity Council, 38, Golt Links. 

New Delhi. 
- 23. Shri J. M , Saba, Superintending Technologist , Birla Sugar Research Lab 

oratory, Hargaon , U . P . 
- 24 , Shri Mata Din Khatan , Bengal Sugar Merchants Association , 7- C , Ram 

kumar Rakhit Lane, Calcutta - 7 , 
25 . Shri Chandrakant, T. Shanghvi, President, Bombay Sugar Merchants 

Association , 104114 , Frere Road , Bombay - 9 . 
26 . Shri Jaran Lal Bhatia , President Delhi Sugar Merchants Association , 

6112 , Gali Patashan , Naya Bans, Delhi-6 . 
27. Shri Kashi Nath Pandey , M .P ., Indian National Trade Union Congress, 

19 , Japling Road , Lucknow . . 
28. Shri Braj Kishore Shastri, Hind Mazdoor Sabha, 3, A . P . Sen Road , 

Lucknow 
29 . Shri Bishwa Nath Roy, MP. (Lok Sabha ), 197, North Avenue, New Delhi. 
30 . Shri Rama Bahadur Sinha , M . P . (Rajya Sabha ), 102, South Avenue, New 

Delhi. 
2 . Shri P . K . Ray, Deputy Director , Directorate of Sugar & Vanaspati, Ministry 
of Food & Agriculture , (Department of Food ), New Delhi, is hereby appointed to 
carry on the functions of Secretary to the said Development Councii. 

[No. 2(8) /Dev. Councils /64.) 
C . BALASUBRAMANIAM , Dy. Secy. 


(Indian standards Institution ) 

New Delhi, the 9th November, 1964 
9 .O . 3972 . - In licence No. CM / L - 774 , dated 24th August, 1984 , held by M / s. 
Angelo Brothers Limited , 7 Ram Gopal Ghose Road , Cossipore, Calcutta - 2 , the 
details of which were published under S . O . 3553 , in the Gazette of India , Part II , 
Sub -section 3 ( ii ) dated 3 September, 1964, grades I and IV of Shellac have been 
included w . q . 1. 18t November , 1984, 


[No. MD / 12 : 1393 .] 


S . O . 3973 . - Certifcation Marks Licence No. CM / L - 800 issued in the name of M / s. 
Central Distributors Ltd ., Bombay , the details of which are glyen in the Notifica 
tion published under S . O . 3539 in the Gazette of India , Part II -Section 3 ( il ) dated 
21st December, 1963, has been transferred in the name of M / 8 . Hind Cycles Ltd ., 
250 Worli , Bombay , with effect from 28th October , 1984 . 

INo. MD /12 : 1000.1 


SEC, 8(fi 


THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 / KARTIKA $0, 1886 4429 


New Delhi, the 12th November 1964 
S . O . 3974 . — In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 3 ) of regulation 7 of the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 , as amended in 1961, 
1962 and 1964, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the marking 
fee per unit for various products, details of which are given in the Schedule hereto 
annexed , have been determined and the fee shall come into force with effect from 
16 November , 1964 . 


THE SCHEDULE 


Unit 


$ 1. Product / Class of 
No. Products 


No, and title of relevant 

Indian Standard 


Marking Fee per 

Unit 


5 


I Sago (Saboodana ) . IS : 899 - 1956 Specification Onc Tonne so Paise . 

for Sago (Saboodana ) . 


> 


Decorative Thermo - 

setting Synthetic 
Resin Bonded La - 
minated Sheets . 


IS : 2046 - 1962 Specification for One Square 10 Paisc . 

Decorative Thermosctting Metre 
Synthetic Resin Bonded 
Laminated Sheets . 


[ No. MD / 18 : 2 .] 


S .O . 3975 . — In puſsuance of sub - rule (1 ) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards 
Institution (Certifcation Marks ) Rules , 1955 , as amended in 1982, the Indian 
Standards Institution hereby notifies that the Standard Mark ( s ) , design ( s ) of 
which together with the verbal description of the design ( s ) and the title ( s ) of the 
relevant Indian Standard (s ) are given in the Schedule hereto annexed , have been 
specified . 


These Standard Mark ( s ) , for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution 
( Certification Marks) Act , 1952, as amended in 1981, and the rules and regulations 
framed thereunder, shall come into force with effect from 16 Nov. 1984 . 


THL SCHEDULE 


Si. Design of the Stan . 
No . dard Mark 


Product Class No. and Title of 
of Products to Relevant Indian 
which applicable Standard 


Verbal description of the 
design of the Standard 

Mark 


15 899 


Sago ( Saboodana) IS :899 - 1956 Speci- 

fication for Sago 
( Saboodana) . 


The monogram of the 
Indian Standards Ins 
titution consisting of 
letters ISI, drawn to 
the exact stylc and rela 
tive proportions as 
indicated in col (2 ) , 
the number designation 
of the Indian Standard 
being superscribed on 
the top side of the 
monogram as indicated 
in the design . 


4430 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 / KARTIKA 80, 1886 [PART IL 


3 


$ :2046 


Decorative Ther - IS : 2046 - 1962 Speci- 
mosetting Syn - fication for Deco 
thetic Resin rative Thermoset 
Bonded Lami- ting Synthetic Re 
nated Sheets . sin Bonded Lami 

nated Sheets . 


The monogram of the 

Indian Standardy Ins 
titution consisting of 
letters ISI, drawn in 
the exact style and rela 
tivc proportions as 
indicated in col ( 2 ) 
the number designe 
tion of the Indian Stan 
dard being superscrib 
ed on the top side of 
the monogram as indi 
caled in the design , 


[No. MD / 17 : 2 . ] 


D . V . KARMARKAR , 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 


(Department of Agriculture ) 


New Delhi, the 12th November 1964 


S . O . 3976 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricul 
tural Produce (Grading and Marking ) Act, 1937 ( 1 of 1937 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby makes the following rules, the same having been previously pub 
lished as required by the said section , namely :- - 


SENNA LEAVES AND PODS GRADING AND MARKING RULES, 1964 . 


1. Short title and application , — ( 1 ) These rules may be called 
Leaves and Pods Grading and Marking Rules, 1964, 


the Senna 


( 2 ) They shall apply to Senna Leaves and Pods ( Cassia angustifolia ) produced 
in India . 


2. Definitions. In these rules : 


( 1) " Agricultural Marketing Adviser " means the Agricultural Marketing 

Adviser to the Government of India ; 


( 2 ) Schedule means a Schedule appended to these rules, 


3. Grade designation . — The grade designations to indicate the quality of Senna 
leaves and pods shall be as set out in column 1 of Schedules II to IV . 


4 . Definition of quality . - - The quality indicated by the grade designation shall 
be as set out against each grade designation in Schedules II to IV . 


Sec . 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 / KARTIKA 30 , 1886 4431 


5 . Grado designation marks. The grade designation mark shall consist of a 
label specifying the grade designation and bearing a design ( consisting of an 
outline map of India with the word AGMARK and the figure of the rising sun , 
with the words Produce of India and ( TA JE ) resembling the mark 
as set out in Schedule I. 


6 . Method of marking . - - ( 1 ) The grade designation marks shall be applied to 
Senna leaves and pods in full pressed bales. The grade designation mark shall 
be securely attached to each bale in a manner approved by the Agricultural 
Marketing Adviser . In addition to the grade designation the following parti 
culars shall be clearly marked on the label : 


( 1) Serial number. . ... 


(2 ) Trade description . . . . 


( 3) Year of harvest. . 


( 4 ) Date of pressing . . . . .. 


( 2 ) An authorised packer may, after obtaining the prior approval of the Agri 
cultural Marketing Adviser, mark his private trade mark on a container , pro 
vided that the private trade mark does not represent quality or grade of Senna 
leaves and pods different from that indicated by the grade designation mark 
affixed to the container in accordance with these rules . 


7 . Method of packing. Senna leaves and pods shall be press -packed with a 
covering of new gunny cloth in bales with sufficient number of bands tightly 
placed around the bales of customary weights of 100 to 200 Kgm . 


8 . Special conditions of cortificate of authorisation . In addition to the condi 
tions specified in rule 4 of the General Grading and Marking Rules , 1937, the 
following conditions shall be observed by packers to the satifaction of the Agri 
cultural Marketing Adviser, namely 


( 1 ) Supervision over the grading and marking of Senna leaves and pods 

shall be exercised by Inspecting Officers authorised by the Agri 
cultural Marketing Adviser . 


( 2 ) Senna leaves and pods shall be graded and marked only at such baling 

presses as can provide proper space and facilities for cleaning , 
grading and marking and are approved of as such by the Agricultural 
Marketing Adviser . 


( 3 ) The authorised packers shall provide all reasonable facilities to the 

Inspecting Officers for carrying on their work of supervision and 
analysis, such facilities to include the provision of a room for analys 
ing samples . 


or permitting any other buyer to remove any consignment of graded 
and marked bales of Senna leaves or pods from the grading pre 
mises , ensure that Inspecting Officers have had due notice , oppor 
turity and facilities for carrying out check sampling and analysis 
in accordance with special instructions that may be issued by the 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser from time to time. 


4492 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21 , 1964 / KARTIKA 30 , 1886 PART II 


SCHEDULE I 


( See rule 5 .) 


Design for the Grade designation mark . 


AGMARK 


OWCE 


भारतीय उत्पाठ 
6 wuGunGm 
woSatGo 


TONI 


Note . — The Tamil and Telugu words will not occur in the labels in case where 

commodities are graded for the purpose of export . 


SIC.Y(u) 


SCHEDULE IT 

(See rules 3 and 4 ). 
Grale designitions ont definietion of quality of Sopra leaves (Cassia angustifolia ) known commercially as ** Timevelly Senna leaves " . 
Grade designation Colour of the leaf Size = leaves Special Characteris - Tolerance for size , by weight, General Characteristics 
should be retain - tics , (Refraction per 

maximum 
ed on the silve centage by weight 
with mesh maximum ) 
size oflinear 
length Stalks and Other re 

sticks fractions 


Do . 


in 


Do . , 


in 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER21,1964/KARTIKA30,18864433 


Do. 


Prime Bold , Pale Green 

I eye in i cm . 

25 % of Prime No. I and 

I . Leaves of Cassia angustifolia 
10 % of Prime II, 

shall be well developed . 
Prime No. I , . 

3 eyes in 2 . 5 Ch . 

25 % of Prime No . II and 2 . They shall have their charac 
10 % of Prime No. III. 

teristic aroma. 
Prime No . II . . 

4 eyes in 2 5 cm . 

25 % of PrimeNo. III and 3 . The produce shall be resa 
10 % of Prime No. IV . 

sonably dry and free frem 
Prime No . III . . 

6 eyes in 2 . 5 cm . 

30 % of PrimeNo. IV and 

disease , insect attack and broken 
10 % ofsize lower than Prime No. leaves. 

Iy . 
Prime No, IV , 

8 eyes in 2 . 5 cm . 

35 % of size lower than PrimeNo. IV . 
T . Y . NO . I , . Pale Yellowish Green 3 eyes in 2 5 CM , 

5 . 3070 

30 % of T . V . No. II and 10 % of 

T . V . No. III. 
T . V . No. II . 

Do. 4 eyes in 2 5 cm . 

30 % of T . V . No. III and 10 % 

Of T . V . No, IV . 
T . V . No. III . 

6 eyes in 2 . 5 cm . 

30 % of T . V .No. IV and 10 % of 

size lower than T . V . No , IV . 
T . V . No . IV . 

8 eyes in 2 . 5 cm . 

35 % of size lower than T . V . No. IV . 
T . V . No. V . Do . 

40 % of T . V . No, IV and 20 % of 

size lower than T . V . No. IV . 
Non - Specified 

Tolerance for color- A tolerance of 5 % of black leaves may be permitted in each grade. 
Tolerance for broken leaves - A tolerance of 10 % ofbroken leaves two halves only ) of the respective gra les may be permitted in the pressed bales . 
Stalks and sticks - These included stalks and sticks of senna plants only . 
Other refractions -- These comprise dust of Senna leaves ( arising out of crushing of leaves ) ,blemished , shrivelled and damaged leares , the nature of 

damaged not affecting the inherent quality of the leaves . 
" Non - specified " Grade designation shall be applicable against a firm order from a recognised manufacturer according to specifications and blends 

not covered by the other grade designations and definitions of quality laid down in the schedule . FirmOrder " would mean 
either than the whole of the purchase money is to be paid in cash before hand or guaranteed in some other way . Arc 
cognised manufacturer shall mean manufacturer recognised by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of 
India , Nagpur , as such . 
All the percentages shall be worked out on the basis of total weight of the sampble . 


: 


Do. 


una 


SCHEDULE III 
( See rules 3 and 4 ) 


Guide designation 


Special Characteristics 


General Characteristics 


" Senna leaves per 
centage by weight 

(Min .) 


“ Cassia leaves " per 
centage by Weight 

(Max.) 


T .V . Blend - A 


T .Y . Blend - B 


1. Leaves of Cassia angustifolia and Cassia auriculara used in the 

blends shall be well developed . 
2 . They shall have their characteristic aroma. 
3 . The produce shall be reasonably dry and free from disease , 

insect attack and broken leaves . 


3444THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER21,1964/KARTIKA30,1886(PartII 


, 


T . V Blend - D 
T . V . Blend - E 


The Senna leaves used for the preparation of the blend sball be of grade T . Y . No, 3 and the refraction sh l not exceed the limit as laid down 
for the same. All percentages shall be worked out on the basis of total weight of a sample excluding refraction . 


SEEBELE IV . 

(See tules 3 and 4 ). 
Grada designations and deftration of quality of Serna pods derived from plants botanically known as Cassia angustifolia . 


Grade designations 


Colour of pods 


Tolerance - percentage by weight (maximum ) 


General Characteristics 


Stalks and Skins 
sticks 


Senna 
leaves 


Other rc 
fractions 


ALPHA 


4 


5 


H .P. Pods — A 


. 


. 


2 


HP , Pods _ B 
0 . I . 


, 
. 


, 
. 


. Golden , Greenish 

yellow . 
Brownish , yellow . 
. Brown, Black (the lat 

ter not exceeding 

75 % of total weight ) 
. 


I . All the pods shall be mature , reasonably 

dry and free from mould , insect attack and 

disease . 
2 . The pods shall have their characteristic 

aroma. 
3 . The grade " pods -skios" consists of skin 

and their broken pieces . 


. 


5 


SEC.$(11)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA;NOVEMBER21,1964/KARTIKA30,18864435 


. 


. 


Black 


Pods- Skios . 
Non -specified . 


5 


- 


5 


Stalks and sticks - These include stalks and sticks of Senna plaats only . 
Skins . 

- These include skins of Senna pods only . 
Other refractions - These comprise dust of Senoa leaves arising out of crushing of leaves ), blemished shrivelled and damaged leaves the nature 

of damage not affecting the inherent quality of the leaves. 


Non - specified . 


- This grade designation shall be applicable against a fim order from a recognised manufacturer according to specifications 
blends not covered by the other grade designations and definitions of quality laid down in the schedule . "Firm Order would 
mean either that the whole of the purchase money is to be paid in ash before hand or guaranteed in some other way, A recognised 
manufacturer shall mean manufacturer recognised by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of India , Nagpur , 


as 


[ No F . 17-23/63-AM ) 
SANTOKH SINGH , Under Secy, li 


4436 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 50 , 1880 PART - 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 11th November 1964 
8 . 0 . 3977. — Whereas Dr. (Mrs .) R . Visalakshi, Superintendent, Government 
Training School for Health Visitors , Kasturba Gandhi Hospital Compound, 
Madras- 5 , has been elected to be a member of the Indian Nursing Council under 
clause ( c ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the Indian Nursing Council Act, 1947 
( 48 of 1947 ) vice Miss M . Korah , Superintendent, Lady Reading Health School, 
Delhi. 

Now , thercfore , in pursuance of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the said Act, 
the Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the noti 
fication of the Government of India in the Ministry of Health No . F . 27 / 57 / 57-MII 
( B ) dated the 1st December , 1958, namely : 
In the said notification , 
under the heading " Elected under clause ( c ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 

3 , against item 1 , for the existing entry , the following entry shall 

be substituted , namely : 
" Dr. (Mrs.) R . Visalakshi, Superintendent, Government Training School 
for Health Visitors , Kasturba Gandhi Hospital Compound , Madras - 5 . " 

[No. F .27 - 31/ 64 -MPT.J 
B . B . L . BHARADWAJ, Under Seoy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 
( Transport Wing) 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 7th November, 1964 
8 . 0 . 3978 . — In pursuance of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 6 of the Bombay Port 
Trust Act , 1879 (Bombay Act 6 of 1879 ) , the Central Government hereby pub 
Ushes the following return received from the Indian National Steamship Owners 
Association , Bombay namely : 
" Return showing the name of the person elected by the Indian National 

Steamship Owners Association Bombay in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 13 ( 2 ) of the Bombay Port Trust Act, 1879 to 
fill the vacancy caused by the temporary absence of leave of Shrt 
Vasant Shethi 


Name of the person elected 
Shri H . M . Desai 

[No. 8 -PG ( 151 ) / 64 . 1 
R , RANGARAJAN , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 31st October 1964 
S .O . 3979 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the 
Cinematograph Act . 1952 and sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 9 read with sub - rule ( 2 ) 01 
rule 9 and sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 of the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules , 1958 
the Central Government hereby re - appoints the following persons, after consulta 
tion with the Central Board of Film Censors , as a member of the Advisory Panel 
of the said Board at Madras with immediate effect. 

1. Shri M . Bapineedu . 
2 . Smt. P . Mandakini Bai. 

[NO. F . 11(4 ) /03-FC .1 
H . N . AGARWAL, Dy. Socy . 


SEC. $( ii)] 


THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTILA 80 , 1* *. 4437 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM & CHEMICALS 

New Delhi, the 9th November 1964 
6 . 0 . 3980. - - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary in 
the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Barauni Refinery in 
Bihar State to Haldia Port in Calcutta in West Bengal State , a pipeline should be 
laid by the Indian Oil Corporation Ltd ., and that for the purpose of laylog such 
pipeline, it is necessary to acquire the right of user in land described in the 
Schedule annexed hereto . 


2 . Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act , 1962 
(50 of 1962) the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire the 
right of user therein . 

3 . Any person Interested in the said land may, within 21 days from the date of 
this notifcation , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the Com 
petent Authority , Special Land Acquisition Omcer , C / o Indian Oil Corporation 
Limited , P . O . HATHIDAH , District Patna. Every person making such an objection 
shall also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal 
practitioner . 


SCHEDULE 


State - Bihar 


District - Santhal Parganas 


Thana - Deothar. 


Village with thana No. Survey No. Extent Village with thana No. 

(Plot No.) in 

acre 


Survey 

No. 
(Plot No.) 


Extent 
in Acre 


Chhotamanikpur No. 

116 


354 


0 05 Badladih No. 117-- - contd 
0 :05 


165 


353 


219 


Badladih No. 117 


160 


156 
159A 
159B 

167 


164 


0 : 58 
O II 
0 :07 
0 : 31 
0 . 06 
0 04 


0 . 34 
0 . 06 
0 . 56 
0 - 30 Sirsia No. 320 


383 


[No. 31 / 47/ 63-ONG -HAS.] 


S . O . 3981. - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Barauni 
Rfinery in Bihar State to Haldia Port in Calcutta in West Bengal State , a pipeline 
should be laid by the Indian Oil Corporation Ltd ., and that for the purpose of 
laying such pipelines , it is necessary to acquire the right of user in land described 
in the Schedule annexed hereto . 


2 . Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act, 
1962 ( 50 of 1962 ) the Central Government herehy declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user thercin . 


3 . Any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from the date 
of this notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
Competent Authority , Special Land Acquisition Officer, c / o Indian Oil Cor 
poration Limited , P . O . HATHIDAH , District Patna. Every person making such 
an objection shall also state specifcally whether he vishes to be heard in porxon 
er by a legal practitioner , 


4438 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 21, 1964 / KARTIKA 80, 1886 [PART 11 


LAM 


SCHBDULE 
District - Monghyr 


State - Bihar 


Thana - Chakai 


Vlllage with thana No. 


Survey 

No . 
(Plot No.) 


Extent 
in acre 


| Village with thana No. Survey 

No . 
(Plot No.) 


Extent 
In ACIC 


Mahpur No. 3 Tola 

Nerganjo 


776 


834 


Mahpur No. 3 Tola 
Narganjo - contd 


833 


770 


775 
763 


41 


0 : 27 
0 :07 
0 03 
O OIS 
o os 
0 : 08 
0 075 
O 02 
O II 
0 . 075 
O OI 


025 
0 . 025 
O 04 
O OI 
O 595 
O IO 
0 03 
o oos 
0 .025 
O 05 


416 


761 
760 
756 


366 


769 


421 


[No. 31 / 47 /63 -ONG - 1 - JAS .] 


$ . O . 3982 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
In the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from the Ankleshwar 
Oil field in Gujarat State to Baroda in Gujarat State , pipelines should be laid 
by the Oil and Natural Gas Commission and that for the purpose of laying such 
pipelines , It is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land described in the 
Scherule annexed hereto ; 


section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act, 
1962 ( 50 of 1962 ) the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of- user therein . 

3 . Any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days from the date 
of this notification , objection to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
competent authority at Elampeco , 4th Floor Sayajiganj Opp . College Lokmanya 
Tilak Road , Baroda in the office of the Gujarat Pipeline Project, Oil and Natural 
Gas Commission . Every person making such an objection shall also state speci 
Acally whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner . 


SCHEDULE 
District - BROACH 


Stato - GUJARAT 


Taluka -- ANKLESHWAR 


Village. 


S . No 


A . G . 


Sq . Yds. 


Borbhatha 
Kansia Bet 
Adol 


. 
. 


. 


253 

44 
754 / 

1 


IOI 


24 - 17 

-28 


0 


[ No. 31 ( 88 ) / 83 - ONG. ] 


S . O . 3983 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary to 
the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Barauni Refinery in 
Bihar State to Haldia Port in Calcutta in West Bengal State , a pipeline should be 
Jaid by the Indian Oli Corporation Ltd ., and that for the purpose of laying such 
pipeline, it is necessary to acquire the right of user in land described in the 
Schedule annexed hereto . 

2 . Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act, 1962 
( 50 of 1962 ) the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire the 
right of user therein . 


SEO . 3( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21 , 1964 / KARTIKA 80 , 1888 4439 


3 . Any person Interested in the said land may, within 21 days from the date of 
this notifcation , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the Com 
petent Authority, Special Land Acquisition Officer, C / o Indian Oli Corporation 
Limited , P . O . HATHIDAH , District Patna . Every person making such an objection 
shall also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal 
practitioner. 

SCHEDULE 
State - Bihar District - -Monghyr 

Thana - Teghra 


Extent in 


Village with thana No. Survey 

No. 
(Plot No.) 


Village with Thana No. Survey 

(Plot No.) 


Extent 
in acre 


acre 


Nurpur No. 537 


148 


Bihat No. 504 


153 
171 
172 
202 


O 02 | 
O OI 
0 . 005 
0 .01 
0 .01 


909 


2604 
2605 
2609 
2611 
2627 
7273 
7270 
7272 
7254 
7257 
7253 
7281 


O 02 
0 :01 
0 005 
0 . 005 
0 . 005 

0 . 13 
O ‘ 125 
O Or 
0 :09 
0 .045 
0 . 00 % 
O 025 


173 


178 


0 .025 
0 : 10 


1}ihat No. 504 


1779 
1780 
2505 


0 .04 
O OI 
0 03 


OLL 


[No. 31 / 47 /63 -ONG - 10 / HATH . ] 

P . P . GUPTA , Under Secy . 
CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 9th November 1964 
S . O . 3984. - - In the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S .O , No . 2715 dated the 23rd July , 1964 pub 
lished in the Gazette of India , Part II , Section 3 , Sub - section ( 11 ) dated the 
August, 1964 
In Village Nurpur No. 537 : 

Against plot No. 202 road 0 .018 acre for 0 ,03 
Against plot No. 179 read 0 .05 acre for 0. 06 

Against plot No. 182 read 0.04 acre for 0 .06 
In Village Bihat No. 504 : 

Against plot No. 2610 read 0 .035 acre for 0 .04 
Against plot No. 7269 read 0 .025 acre for 0. 10 
Against plot No. 7258 read 0 .15 acre for 0. 18 

Against plot No. 2625 read 0 .035 acre for 0 .02 
2 . The following survey numbers with area shown against each shall be deleted : 


Village 


Survey 


Plot 


Arca in 

Acre 


Number 


Nurpur No . 537 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


203 
128 


0 . 003 
0 .006 


Bihat No. 504 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


2615 
7274 
7262 
7256 


0 . 005 
0 . 004 

O OS 
O 02 


[No. 31 / 47 / 63 -ONG - 10 / HATH . J 


4440 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA $0 , 1880 PART II 


- 


0 . 06 


S . O . 3985. — In the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S . O . No . 1592 dated the 29th April, 1964 pub 

shed in the Gazette of India Part II, Section 3 , Sub - section (li) dated the 9th May, 
1964 , 
In village Mahapur No. 3 ( Tola Narganjo ) 
Against plot No. 792 read 0 . 31 acre for 0 : 37 

786 ) 0 035 
787 

O 02 
774 1 

0 . 37 . , 0 .64 
771 1 0 .05 

» » 0 - 14 
767 0 .02 

3 3 0 os 
768 0 .005 

0 : 03 
759 

0 : 21 
831 0 . 16 
832 je 

0 .015 
407 » 0 . 26 
379 0 : 07 1 

0 - 08 


ܗܘܘܘܘܘܘܘܘܘܘ 


0 . 30 


0 - 305 


from Village Mahapur No. 3 (Tola Narganjo ). 


Survey Number 


Area in acre 


842 
394 


0 : 03 
0 .02 


[ No, 31 / 47/ 83 - ONG- 1JA8.] 


S . O . 3986 . - In the Schedule to the Government of India Ministry of Petroleum 
and Chemicals S . O . No, 1605 dated the 30th April, 1964 published in the Gazette of 
India Part II, Section 3 Sub -section ( ii) dated the 9th May , 1964, the following shall 
be deleted : 


Survey 
No. 


Extent 

in 
# cres 


Prom Village Badladih T . No. 117 


. 


. 


. 


154 
151A 
1513 
151C 

I $ 7 


0 * 12 

0 . 06 
O OIS 
O - 015 

0 : 16 
0 . 265 

0 : 20 
0 . 235 
0 . 003 


158 


172 


From Village Khawasdih T . No. 121 


Ι 


0 . 06 


0 13 


{No. 31 / 47 / 63 -ONG -8 / JAS . ] 
P . P . GUPTA , Vader Sey . 


Soo ( L ) ] 


THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21 , 1964 / KARTIKA 30 , 180 $ 


I 


MINISTRY OF STEEL & MINES 


(Department of Mines & Metals ) 


New Delhi, the 10th November 1964 


S . O . 3987.-- - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 7 
of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 ( 20 ot 1937 ) 
and of all other powers enabling it in this behalf , the Central Government hereby 
rescinds the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Mines 
and Fuel No. S . O . 3855 dated the 18th December , 1962 , 


[No. 03 -22 ( 15 ) / 59 .] 


K , SUBRAHMANYAN , Under Secy . 


(Department of Mince and Motals ) 

ORDER 
New Delhi, the 11th November 1964 


S . O . 3988 — In exercise of the powers conferred by sections of the Essential Commodities 
Act, 1955 ( To of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes the following furthri grcromert 
In the Order of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Prcductiin, No . S . R . O . 118 . 
duted the 2nd April , 1957 , namely :-- 


In the Schedule annexed to the said Order , after SerialNumber 16 and the entries reintine 
hereto , the following shall be added , namely : 


Coloma 


Column 


Column 


Column 


2 


17 


Director of Agriculture , Rajasthan , 

Jaipur . 


Deputy Director , Agriculture ( Sta - 
tistics ), Rajasthan , Jaipur. 


Clauses ( c ), ( In respect of distribution of 
w ( e .co), coal received within the State 
(i) and (i) 

of Rajasthan from collieries in 
. Do . Rajasthan and in respect of coal 

{ supplies received with in the 

State of Rajasthan against the 
Clauses ( c ), (0 , quota fixed bv the Central 
(h ),(i) andi ) Government from time to 


All District Agriculture Officers in 
the State of Rajathan . 


time" 


[No. 11/ 10 /64- CI] 


3 . KRISHNASWAMY, üda Secy . 


4442 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21 , 1964 / KARTIKA 80 , 1886 (PART II 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 
(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 5th November 1964 
8 . 0 . 3989.- - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( I) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 ( No . 44 
of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Ram Rakha Mal ag 
Assistant Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such Omcers by or under the said Act with effect from the after -noon of the 
18th September 1964 , 

[No. 8 / 62 / AGZ / 64. 1 


8 . 0 , 3990 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause ( a ) of Sub - Section 
( 2 ) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act , 
1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) the Central Government hereby appoints for the Union territory 
of Delhi Shri Ram Rakha Mal, Assistant Settlement Officer in the office of Re 
gional Settlement Commissioner Delhi as Managing Officer for the custody , manage 
ment and disposal of compensation pool with effect from the after -noon of the 18th 
September , 1964 . 

[No. 8 / 62 / AGZ/ 64. ] 


S . O . 3991 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub -Section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act , 1934, (No. 44 
of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri D . R . Ahluwalia as 
Assistant Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such Officers by or under the said Act with effect from the after-noon of the 
18th September , 1964 , 

[No. 8 (63) AGZ / 64. ] 
KANWAR BAHADUR . 
Settlement Commissioner ( A ) & 

Ex -Officio Deputy Secretary . 


DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SECURITY 


New Delhi, the 13th November 1964 


8 . 0 . 3992 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 5D 
of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , the Central Government 
hereby appoints Shri P . D . Gaiha, as the Deputy Provident Fund Commissioner 
with effect from the forenoon of the 13th November , 1964 for the territories to 
which the said Act extends. 

Further in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section BD 
of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) and in supersession of 
the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employ 
ment No. S . O . 2054 , dated the 4th June, 1964 published in Part II Section 3, Sub 
section ( li) of the Gazette of India dated the 13th June, 1984, the Central Govern 
ment appoints Shri P . D . Gaiha also to act as the Central Provident Fund 
Commissioner during the period of absence on leave of Shri E . V . Ram Reddi. 

[ No . 15 ( 23 ) /64 - PF -I. ] 


S . O . 3999. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
13 of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri P . D . Gaiha to be an Inspector for the territories to 
which the said Act extends for the purposes of the said Act or of any Scheme 
framed thereunder in relation to an establishment belonging to , or under the 


with a railway company, a major port, a mine or an oil- field or a controlled 
industry . 

[ No . 19 (23 ) /64 -PF- I.] 
SHAH AZIZ AHMAD , Dy . Secy . 


Sec. 8( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 / KARTIKA 30 , 1886 4443 


S . O . 3994 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 5D 
of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri D . T . Ghatpande, Regional Provident Fund Com 
missioner Maharashtra , also as the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner for 
the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu . 

(No. 40 ( 207) / 64 - PF- 1. ] 


$ . Q . 3995 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 13 
of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central Government 
hereby appoints Shri D . T . Ghatpande to be an Inspector for the whole of the 
Union territory of Goa , Daman and Diu for the purposes of the said Act or of any 
Scheme framed thereunder in relation to an establishment belonging to , or under 
the control of the Central Government, or in relation to an establishment con 
nected with a railway company , a major port, a mine or an oil - field , or a controlled 
industry . 

[No. 40 (207) / 64 -PF-I.] 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 10th November 1964 


S . O . 3996 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Mica Mines 
Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1946 ( 22 of 1946 ) , read with sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 3 and 
clause ( c ) of rule 8 of the Mica Mines Labour Welfare Tund Rules , 1948, the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. $ . O . 
2661, dated the 20th August , 1962, published at page 2882 of the Gazette of India 
in Part II, Section 3 ( ii ) , dated the 25th August, 1962, namely : 
Against item 3, for the entry " Shri Palepu Dasaratharama Reddi" , the entry 
" Shri M . Kota Reddy" shall be substituted . 

[No. 23 ( 3 ) 61-MIII.) 
R . C . SAKSENA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 10th November 1964 
S . O . 3997, -- In pursuance of section 17 of thc Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Bombay in the industrial dispute between the Bombay Port Trust , 
Bombay and their workmen which was received by the Central Government on the 
5th November 1964 . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT BOMBAY 


Employers in relation to Bombay Port Trust 


AND 


Their Workmen . 


PAESENT: 


Shri Salim M , Merchant,-- Presiding Officer . 


APPEARANCES ; 


F or the employers --- Shri M . R . S . Captain , Legal Advişer with Shri R . K . Shetty 

Deputy Legal Adviser of the Bombay Port Trugt , 


4444 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 90 , 1886 (PART U 


For the workmen : 

For the B . P . T . General Workers Union : - Shri S . Maitra, General Secretary . 

For the B .P . T. Employees Union :- Shri S. K . Shetye , Asstt . Secretary , 
INDUSTRY ; Docks and Ports. 

STATE : Maharashtra . 
Dated at Bombay, the 31st day of October 1964 

AWARD 
The Central Government, by the Ministry of Labour and Employment s Order 
No. 28 / 100 / 13-LRIV dated 3rd February 1964, made in exercise of the powers con 
terred by clause (d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 (XIV of 1947), was pleased to refer the industrial dispute between the parties 
above - named in respect of the subject matters specified in the following schedule to 
the said order : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether Shri Seva Singh , Driver Mechanic , Mobile Crane Section , Chief 

Engineer s Department, Bombay Port Trust, is senior to Shri Samel, 
Driver Mechanic , for the purpose of promotion to the post of Charge 

man , If so , to what relief is Shri Seva Singh entitled . ? " 
2 . After the reference was made, the Bombay Port Trust General Workers Union 
(hereinafter referred to as the Union ) which has sponsored this dispute , Aled its 
statement of claim dated 23rd March 1964 , to which the Bombay Port Trust Aled 
its written statement in reply dated 28th April 1964 and a supplementary written 
statement dated 30th May 1964 . The Bombay Port Trust Employees Union There 
Inafter referred to as the the Employees Union ) did not Ale any written statement, 
but was represented and took part at the hearing, at which the Bombay Port Trust 
Aled a number of documents and led the oral evidence of its Chief Engineer , 


3 . Before I deal with the merits of the dispute , it is necessary to dispose of a 
preliminary objection raised by the Bombay Port Trust , viz . that this is a dispute 
relating to promotion and is therefore a matter over which the employers has ex 
clusive control . According to the Bombay Port Trust this is a matter over which 
an industrial dispute cannot be raised and therefore the Tribunal has no jurisdiction 
to entertain such a reference . In support Shri Shetty , the Deputy Legal Adviser 
of the Bombay Port Trust , who urged this objection , has relied upon the decision 
om the Supreme Court in the case of Brook Bonds ( India ) ( Private Limited and 
their workmen ( 1963 I LLJ page 256 ) and upon the decision of the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Andhra Pradesh , In the case of the Workmen of Andhra Bank Limited and 
Andhra Bank Ltd ., Masullipatanam ( 1964 I LLJ . page 243 ). Both these decisions, 
no doubt, recognised the well settled principle that promotions to which industrial 
employees are entitled normally would be treated as the function of the manage 
ment, and that it must be left to the discretion of the management to select persons 
for promotion . But in this case , it is not a case of mere exercise of discretion by 
the employers as to which of two employees viz , Şeva Şingh and Samel (Mechanic 
Drivers ) possessing the same qualifications, was to be promoted to the higher post 
of Assistant Chargeman / Chargeman , but the question here is whether Seva Singh 
having in 1956 passed the required qualifying test for promotion to the post of 
Assistant Chargeman was entitled to be promoted to that post before Samel, who 
was senior to him in service, but who passed the test some years later in 1962. The 
objection of the Union is to Samel having been at all allowed to appear for the test, 
in 1962, the management having by the Chief Engineer s Circular dated 15th Octo 
ber , 1958 ordered that no Driver Mechanic would thereafter be entitled to appear 
tor the required test of knowledge of English ability to read catalogue and identify 
spare parts etc . It is admitted that whilst Seva Singh passed the qualifying trade 
test of Assistant Chargeman /Chargeman in 1956, Samel falled to pass the same in 
1958 , 1957 and 1958 , the permission to appear and pass the test having been ex 
tended as an act of grace for 2 years , after the test was taken for the first time in 
1956 , and thereafter the Chief Engineer issued an order that no further trade tests 
would be held permitting Mechanical Drivers to qualify for the higher posts of 
Assistant Chargeman / Chargeman , Therefore , the main question here is not one of 
the management having promoted one employee in exercise of its discretion , but 
a question of an employee already having been promoted in 1956 by passing the 
precribed trade test, being demoted or reduced in seniority from the rank of Assist 
ant Chargman / Chargeman , by a more senior Driver Mechanic having been allowed 
to qualify in 1962 as an Assistant Mechantc / Mechanic after the management itsell 
had issued a circular that no driver mechanic would be allowed to qualify if he 


SEC . 3( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 50, 1886 4445 


had falled to pass the test by 15th October 1958 . It will thus be seen that this is 
a dispute not involving a simple question of the employer s right to pfomote one of 
two employees having equal qualifications, but involves a question of an employee 
already having been promoted being reduced in seniority of rank in the promotion 
post by another employee being allowed to qualify for the post of the promotion 
post, in violation of an earlier order isgued by the Administration . I, therefore , 
hold that two authorities cited by Shri R . K . Shetty , do not apply to the facts and 
circumstances of the instant case . I, therefore , reject the preliminary legal conten 
tion urged by Shri Shetty , the Deputy Legal Adviser of the Bombay Port Trust and 
hold that what has been referred is an industrial dispute and therefore this is a 
valid and legal reference, and I have jurisdiction to entertain the same. 

4 . Now , the facts of this case are that Samel joined the service of the Bombay 
Port Trust before Seva Singh did and was appointed as Driver Mechanic on 1st 
March , 1951, whilst Seva Singh was appointed as Driver Mechanic on 31st May , 
1952. The channel of promotion then was as follows: 


( 1 ) Driver Mechanic . 
( 2 ) Heavy Lift Crane Driver. 

( 3 ) Assistant Chargeman - Chargeman . 
It appears that the promotion to the post of Assistant Chargeman ( now designat 
ed as chargeman ) is on the basis of seniority - cum - suitability and that the suit 
ability was determined by holding a trade test. The test is taken to see that 
the staff seeking to be promoted as Assistant Chargeman / Chargeman are , 
" experienced in trade and shall be literate enough in English to maintain log 
books, registers and capable of reading, working , drawing and controlling labour." 
This appears to be clear from the statements with regard to the duties and res 
ponsibilities of Assistant Chargeman / Chargeman made by the Bombay Port Trust 
Administration , before the Categorisation and Classification Committee (popularly 
known as the Jeejeebhoy Committee ) at item 154 at page 54 and item 164 at 
page 58, The Bombay Port Trust had also stated in its statement before the 
Categorisation and Classification Committee that the basis of recruitment to the 
post of Assistant Chargeman / Chargeman is and was, promotion on the basis 
of seniority - cum -suitability . 


5 . It appears that on 17th June, 1956 an ad hoc committee was appointed by 
the Administration of the Port Trust among other things to test Driver Mecha 
nics for suitability , for the purpose of promotion to the post of Assistant Charge 
man / Chargeman . Both Seva Singh and Samel appeared for the test . It appears 
that Samel s rank as Driver Mechanic was 23rd whilst Seva Singh s was 26th , 
Seva Singh passed the test , but Samel failed . ( See Annexure A collectively to 
the B . P . T . s written statement) . The ad hoc Committee s recommendation with 
regard to Seva Singh stated as follows: 


“ 10 . Serial No . 26 Seva Singh supersedes Serial Nos , 23, 24 and 25 i.e . 

Gajanan S . Samel, Bhaskar S . Paranjpe and Rangai Sahebdin res 
pectively , as the latter cannot read or write in English . He is recom 
mended to act as Asstt. Chargeman ." 


It is admitted that on having passed this test, Seva Singh was considered qualified 
to be appointed as Assistant Chargeman /Chargcman and from a statement filed 
by the Bombay Port Trust ( Exhibit G to its supplementary written statement 
dated 30th day of May , 1964 ) , it appears that Seva Singh immediately on quali 
fication acted as Assistant Chargeman from 17th June, 1956 to 31st December, 
1956 continuously i. c . for 6 months and 15 days. I may here pause and say that 
since his first officiating appointment on 17th June, 1956 till the date Samel 
qualified in 1962, and was Arst appointed to officiate as Assistant Chargeman on 
29th April, 1963, Seva Singh had put in over 17 months officiating duty as 
Assistant Chargeman . 


6 . But to continue, the ad hoc Committee in para 11 of its report observed 
and recommended as follows: 
" During the examination of the various candidates it was observed that 

although some of them do not know to read and write in 
English , they can do so in the vernaculars, Marathi, Gujarati or 
Hindi. The vernaculars however could not help them to decipher 
the parts of the cranes , make duty slips or prepare requisitions. 
Such persons could not discharge their duties as Chargeman or 


4446 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21 , 1964 /KARTIKA 30 , 1880 [Part II 


Assistant Chargeman satisfactorily . Some of them like Serial No. 12 
Abdul Rahiman A . Latif stated that they would like to be given a 
chance for a year to learn to read and write in English . As these 
men are senior to those who are being recommended to supersede 
them and their practical work being reported as satisfactory , the 
Committee consider that some opportunity should be given to these 
men to achieve their aim , The Committee , therefore , recommend 
that a notice be put on the Board stating that the promotion now 
being effected will be temporary for a year so as to give an oppor 
tunity to them who have been superseded to learn to read and write 
in English reasonably well and be able to make logs , write reports 
prepare duty slips etc . At the end of this period they should be 
reconsidered for promotion and if found fit those who have supersed 

ed them should be accordingly demoted ." 
To this suggestion P .E . C . made the following note : 
" I agree . Proper notice shall be placed on the Notice Board of the N .C .S . 

for the information of the staff concerned " , 
and the Chlef Engineer made the following endorsement thereon dated 15th June, 
1966 : 

" The suggestion in para 11 is a good one and should be approved of." 
7 . On 23rd June, 1956 , the Deputy Chief Engineer addressed a letter to the 
Mechanical Superintendent, Bombay Port Trust, in which he informed him that 
the Chief Engineer had directed that a proper notice should be placed on the 
Notice Board of the Mobile Crane Section for the information of the staff con 
cerned as suggested by the ad hoc Committee in para No. 11 of its report stating 
that the promotions to the posts of Chargemen and Assistant Chargemen , Mobile 
Crane Section , which are now being effected will be temporary for a year and 
the employees who have now been superseded by their juniors for want of their 
knowledge to read and write in English will be reconsidered for the promotions 
at the end of the year if they learn to read and write in English reasonably well 
during the year and be able to make logs, write reports and prepare duty slips etc . 
and accordingly a notice dated 17th June, 1956 , under the signature of the Om 
ciating Assistant Mechanical Superintendent was put up stating that the two 
chargemen and five Assistant Chargemen had been appointed temporarily with 
effect from 17th June, 1956 ; that these appointment had been made on the basis 
of seniority - cum - guitability and had involved supersession of some senior 
employees , who, although satisfactory in their practical work , are not able to 
make reports of the conditions of the vehicles, maintain log books, prepare lists 
of spares parts , make out requisitions on the workshops, reports on accidents, 
all of which are required to be written in English ; that they were not able to 
read in English , the various instruction booklets , and lists of manufacturer s 
Spare parts which they are required to do. The notice further stated that, how 
ever, on the recommendation of the ad hoc Committee , who had scrutinised the 
abilities of all the persons who have been appointed or superseded , the Chief 
Engineer had directed that a notice be put up on the Notice Board , Informing 
all the persons who had been superseded that the present appointments are purely 
temporary for one year so that an opportunity is given to those who have been 
superseded to learn to read and write in English reasonably well so that they 
ran fulfil the requirements as explained above, and that all employees of the 
Mobile Crane Section , who have been superseded are therefore hereby informed 
to make every effort to learn to read and write in English , and within a year 
from this date i. e . 17th June, 1956 , if they are able to make the mark they will 
be promoted and those who have superseded these will be demoted to their 
original places . 

8 . I may pause here and state that the result of the ad hoc Committee s recom 
mendations of 17th June, 1956 and the appointments that followed immediately 
as a result thereof clearly was that all those who had not passed the test held 
by the ad hoc Committee were considered not qualified for appointment as Agbist 
ant Chargeman and were already deemed to have been superseded by those 
juniors to them in service, who had qualified for appointment as Assistant Charge 
man by passing the trade test held by the ad hoc Committee . It was, however , 
decided on the recommendations of the ad hoc Cominittee to give one more 
opportunity to those who had failed in the test to qualify within a year , and that 
only on their so qualifying within a year of 17th June, 1956 , (which was later 
extended by one more year ) , was the supersession already effected to be deemed 
to be ineffective. In other words, the promotion of those who had passed in the 
test held on 17th June, 1956 was to be confirmed vis - a - vis those senior to them 


Sec. $ ( 10 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA BO , 1886 4447* 


in service if those senior to them in service again failed to pass the test within 
a year from that date , and as stated later this opportunity was extended for 
one year more i.e . till 1958 . 

9 . It appears that the next trade test was held by the ad hoc committee on 
27th June. 1957 in which Samel appeared . He was candidate No. 12 and the 
report of the ad hoc Committee with regard to him was in the following terms: 
" 3 . 12 . Candidate No . 12 - Gajanan Shanker Samel. He is not considered 

suitable for promotion as he could not read or write in English nor 

could he identify the illustrated spare parts from the catalogue." 
10 . The Committee, however , again recommended in para 5 of its report ( see 
page 4 of annexure B to the B . P . T . s written statement) that having also found 
that some of the candidates had taken advantage of the opportunity afforded to 
them of making good their deficiencics which had prevented them from being 
promoted as Chargeman / Assistant Chargeman earlier, the Committee recom 
mended that further chance of one year be given to enable others to follow suit 
and that a notice to this effect should be put up on the notice board of the 
Mobile Crane Section , for the information of the employees concerned . According 
ly , another notice dated 16th July 1957 was put up ( see exhibit B collectively 
page 6 to B . P . T . s written statement) , which stated as follows: 
" As per directions of the Chief Engineer , Bombay Port Trust, this Notice 

is put up for the information of the staff of the Mobile Crane Sec 
tion , who have been superseded for the appointment of Assistant 


the candidate should be able to read and write English reasonably 
well so that he should he able to maintain logs, read spare parts , 


accidents etc. Such staff is again given the opportunity to make 
efforts to learn to read and write English within a year from this 
date and if they are able to make the mark , they will be promoted 
to the post of Assistant Chargeman and those who have superseded 

will be demoted to their original posts ." 
11 . It appears that in pursuance of this notice another test was held by the 
ad hoc Committee on 17th July , 1958 , at which the Committee was shown a letter 
dated 30th March , 1957, written by Samel, stating that he did not wish to become 
a heavy lift driver The Committee, therefore , in its report about him obsei ved , 
" he cannot, therefore , be considered for the post of Assistant Chargeman ." The 
net result of this was that Samel chose not to avail himself in July 1958 of the 
third chance for qualifying for appointment as Assistant Chargeman , he having 
failed in the earlier two tests held in 1956 and 1957. 

12. Thereafter on 15th October , 1958, the Engineer of the Mobile Crane Sec 
tion put up the following notice : 

Notice 
" Re-appointment of staff to the post of Assistant Chargemen , Mobile Crane 

Section 
" The staff who have been superseded by their juniors for the appoint 

ment of Assistant Chargemen in the Mobile Cranc Section , are 
hereby notified that the Chief Engineer , Bombay Port Trust, has 
directed that no further extension of the opportunity for acquiring 


promotion over those who have already been promoted ." (Ex . E - 2 ) . 
It is clear beyond the lcast doubt that on 15th October , 1958, the Administration 
had decided that no further opportunity would be given to the staff of the Mobile 
Crane Section to qualify as Assistant Chargemạn / Chargeman thereafter . The 
result of this was that those Driver Mechanics who had by that date qualified 
as Assistant Chargeman Chargeman and had superseded their colleagues senior 
in service were not be demoted and their promotion was to be deemed to be 
confirmed and was not to be disturbed by anybody supsequently appointed to 
the post of Assistant Chargeman /Chargeman , 

13. This decision was referred to by the Administration by statements made 
in the correspondence that passed between the Bombay Stevedores and Dock 
Labourers Union and the Bombay Port Trust Administration . It appears that 
by its letter dated 25th July , 1958 the Bombay Stevedores and Dock Labourers 
Union had represented to the Chief Engineer Bombay Port Trust , that one Shri 
A , M . Carvalho , who had passed the departmental test held in June 1956, WAS 
going to be demoted as Heavy Lift Crane Driver and superseded by one Abdul 


2018 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21 , 1964 /KARTIKA 30 , 1880 [PART 11 


Rehman who had passed the trades test and qualified as Assistant Chargeman 
by passing the test held in July 1958. The Administration by its reply dated 8th 
October, 1958, pointed out that though Carvalo had passed the trade test earlier 
1. e . in June 1056 , Abdul Rahiman A . Latif, who was senior to him in service was 
entitled to supersede him because he had passed the test held in July , 1958 , 
and had qualified as Assistant Chargemen at the second chance that was given to 
the staff to appear for the test and get qualified as Assistant Chargeman . In its 
letter No. 571-6A / 30746 dated 8th October , 1958 , the Deputy Chief Engineer , 
specifically observed as follows: 
" I have further to inform you that it has now been decided not to extend 

any further the aforesaid opportunity hitherto offered to the 

employees of Mobile Crane Section ." 
14 . It appears that the case of Shri Carvalho was again raised by Dr. Shanti 
Patel. the General Secretary of the B . P . T . Employees Union in January , 1959 
( see Ex , E . 1 pages 3 and 4 ) and in his letter No. E / 1 -6A / 51565 , dated 30th 
January, 1959, addressed to the Secretary , Bombay Port Trust, the Acting Deputy 
Chief Engineer , stated as follows: 
" The question of the reversion of Shri A . M , Carvalho to his substantive 

post of Heavy Lift Crane Driver was previously raised by Shri H . 
N . Trivedi of the Bombay Stevedores and Dock Labourers Union 
and he was replied to under this office No. E / 16A 30746 of 8th Octo 
ber , 1958 , giving the full facts of the case. The draft reply was 
seen by the General Manager and was approved by him on 6th Octo 
ber , 1958 , copies of the letters are enclosed herewith for information 
of the General Manager , 

Sd / - Ag. Dy. Chief Engineer." 


15 . This case of Abdul Rahiman A . Latif, having been allowed to supersede 
Carvalho , who had passed the test earlier has been relied upon by both Bombay 
Port Trust and B . P . T . Employees Union in support of Samel s claim . But in my 
opinion this case cannot help Samel because Abdul Rahiman A . Latif , had passed 
the trade test within the two further chances ( after the first test held in June 
1956, at which Carvalo had qualified ) that were given to the staff to quality as 
Assistant Chargeman by passing the trade test. From the notices of 1958 and 
1957 which I have cited earlier , it is perfectly clear that if a mechanic Driver who 
had failed in the test held in 1956 had passed the trade tests held in June 
1957 and July 1958 , he would have been entitled , because of his seniority III 
service to supersede those who had passed the test carlier and who were officiat 
Ing as Assistant Chargemen As Shri Maitra has rightly urged the case of Abdul 
Rahiman A . Latif cannot help Samel because he qualified by passing the test 
prior to the issue of the notice of 15th October, 1958, where it was clearly stated 
that " no further extension of the opportunity for acquiring the knowledge of 
English can be given to the staff for the purpose of promotion over those who 
had already been promoted " . 

16 . The matters stood thus till 1961, i. e . that Seva Singh had qualified and 
continued to officiate as Assistant Chargeman , whenever vacancies occurred as 
shown in the BPT s statement Exhibit G to its supplementary written statement 
of 30th May , 1964 , till there occurred a vacancy of Assistant Chargeman in the 
Mobile Crane Section from 28th April, 1961 and the Mechanical Superintendent 
recommended the appointment of an ad hoc Committee for the selection of a 
suitable candidate for promotion to this post from out of the four Senior Driver 
Mechanics of the Section of whom the senior most Driver Mechanic of the Diesel 
Engineering Section was Şamel. The argument advanced in support of his being 
given yet another chance was that as Samel had been given two chances to 
come up to the grade of Assistant Chargeman s post from 1956 to 1958 and he had 
not succeeded and as it was decided by the Chief Engineer s order dated 15th 
October , 1958, that those who had not availed of the opportunity to improve their 
English would not be given further chance for re - examination Shri Şamel did 
not stand the chance for being promoted to the post of Assistant Chargemen . 
But in view of the new channel of promotion of Mechanical Crane Driver effec 
tive from 15th October , 1960 Samel appeared to be the only employee superseded , 
as the other employees of the Section who had superseded or had decided to 
continue as Heavy Crane Lift Driver and do not, after bifurcation of the channel 
of promotion , now stand the channel of promotion to this scheduled post. It 
was, therefore , put up for consideration , whether Samel should be given one 
more chance and allowed to appear for re- examination before the ad hoc Com 
mittee , It appears that Samel was allowed to appear for the qualifying test on 
5th May , 1961. This decision to allow him to re - appear was evidently reached 


Sec . 3 ( 1 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 / KARTIKA BO , 1880 400 


on the ground that Samel was not considered for promotion to the post of Assist 
ant Chargeman in 1958 as he did not wish to be a heavy lift driver . As there 
after the post of heavy Crane Driver had been separated for the channel of 
promotion to Assistant Chargeman s post, there appeared to be no objection to 
consider him for the test for the latter post. The Ad -hoc Committee after testing 
him on 5th May , 1961 reported as follows:-- - 
" Good workmen , He was asked to make a small report in English , which 

he could not do properly . He was also asked to rcad the spare part 
book which he could do . He was told to improve his English after 
which he could be examined again by the Ad -hoc Committee." ( see 

Annexure D to B . P . T . s written statement) . 
The then Deputy Chief Engineer, Mr. K . C . Desai, who gave evidence in this case 
( E . W . 1 ) thereupon informed Samel of the findings of the Committee and further 
dnformed him that he would be re - examined for that post if he improves his 
English and informs the Diesel Engineer, Mobile Crane Section accordingly in 
reasonable time (see Exhibit E . 4 ) . It appears that Samel was again examined 
by the Ad-hoc Committee on 10th September , 1902 for the post of chargeman . 
It appears to me that the decision to allow him to appear again after a period 
of one year and four months after he had failed to pass the test held on 5th 
May, 1961 can be considered " in reasonable time" , as directed by Ex. E . 4 , only 
by those who were out to help him , regardless of past orders . But even in this 
test Samel did not completely satisfy the Ad-hoc Committee because as stated 
by the Deputy Chief Engineer, in his letter dated 3rd October , 1962, he had been 
considered suitable for being allowed to act as Chargeman in future vacancies , 
but on probation ; that he would be kept under observation over an aggregate 


satisfactory , his name would be removed from the panel of candidates for the 
post of chargemen s list " ( see Exhibit E , 7 and E . 8 ) . Thereafter, he officiated 
as a temporary Assistant Chargeman for the first time on 29th April, 1903 whilst, 
as stated earlier Seva Singh had acted an chargeman since 17th June, 1956 . It 
appears that till the 30th day of May , 1964 ( see Annexure G to B . P . Ti s supple 
mentary written statement dated 13th May , 1984 ) Seva Singh had on 15 occas 
sions officiated as Assistant Chargeman Chargeman for an aggregate period of 
19 months and 10 days from 17th June , 1956 to 26th May , 1984 . Samel had , how 
ever, officiated on four Occasions for an aggregate period of two months and 
eleven days , uptil 30th May, 1964. It, however, appears from the statements 
made by the Bombay Port Trust in para 4 of its supplementary written statement 
dated 30th May , 1964 that Samel is now preferred to Seva Singh for appointment 
in vacancies of posts of Assistant Chargeman , Chargeman as he is treated as 
senior to Seva Singh for appointments to post of Assistant Chargeman / Chargeman , 
and this is what Seva Singh objects to . 


Seva Singh is senior to Samel for the purpose of promotion to the post of Charge 
man , and if not what relief is Seva Singh entitled to . 

18 . Shri Maitra for the Union , in support of Seva Singh s claim , has urged 
that Seva Singh having passed the qualifying examination for the post of Assist 
ant Chargeman as early as in 1956 , should be considered senior to Samel for 
appointments in that post. His main contention is that Saniel having failed in 
the qualifying test even after three attempts the third attempt having been made 
in July 1958 , he was under the Chief Engineer s notice dated 15th October , 1958 


tion . He has submitted that the subsequent orders permitting Samel to appear 
in the examination were invalid and improper and he has strongly urged that 
those orders were acts of favouritism shown to Samol hy the Port Trust Admin 
istrative machinery . He had argued that the question now was who was senior 
for appointment in the posts of Assistant Chargeman since Samel had been 
wrongly dernied to be qualified for appointment as Chargeman with effect from 
6th May . 1963. It appears that Seva Singh had becn demoted to the post of 
Driver Mechanic when Samel was appointed as Officiating Chargeman . The 
Bombay Port Trust has in its supplementary statement explained that since 6th 
May , 1963 , when Samel was deemed to have been qualified for appointments in 
the post of Assistant Chargeman /Chargeman , he was treated as senior to Seva 
Singh , for appointments for those posts , Samel being the Senior Mechanic Driver 
of the turo . In other words, Samel is now considered as Senior to Seva Singh 
for appointments in the vacancics of Assistant Chargeman / Chargeman and is 
given preference over Seva Singh for such appointments . 


19. The Bombay Port Trust, on the other hand led the evidence of the Chief 
Inginerr, Shri K . C . Desai, to prove through him the ofice notings, which have 


4450 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 / KARTIKA 30 , 1886 [PART II 


- 


been collectively marked as Exhibit E . 3 , with a view to establish that the orders 
made subsequent to the notice dated 15th October, 1962 ( Ex . E . 2 ) were validly 
and bonafidely made and that the permission for re - examination of Samel in 
1961 and 1982 were valid and in order . But in examination - in - chief itself Shri 
Degal ( E . W . 1 ) stated : 
" I am unable to recount the circumstances under which Samel was allowed 

to reappear for the test in 1961 but I have a faint recollection that 
the B . P . T . s then Chief Engineer, Shri Sarma had said that it would 
not be fair to debar the senior members from appearing in the test 
and he ( Shri Sarma ) was of the opinion that they should be examin 

ed along with others." 
He was questioned as to what talk Dr, Shanti Patel, the General Secretary of 
the B . P . T . Employees Union (who had raked up the question of Samel being 
allowed to rcappear for the examination ) had with the General Manager of the 
Port Trust and whether Dr. Shanti Patel was satisfied with what the General 
Manager had told him , and he stated that he had no knowledge about it. There 
is nothing in the examination - in - chief of Shri Desai to suggest that the Chairman 
of the Bombay Port Trust or the Trustees had allowed the rules to be changed 
by which Samel could be allowed to appear for the examination three years after 
the circular dated 15th October , 1958 ( Exhibit E . 2 ) which clearly stated that no 
further opportunity was to be given to any mechanical Driver for appearing for 
the test to qualify for appointment as Assistant Chargeman , Shri Desai could 
not throw any light on how the channel of promotion from the post of Mechanical 
Driver to Chargeman was introduced and how it came to be altered . He could 
not say whether any notice under Section 9 ( A ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 
1947 , was published when the channel of promotion was altered . The admis 
sions made by Shri Desai in cross - examination are significant. He admitted in 
cross - examination that when he made his noting dated 2nd May , 1961, recom 
mending that Samel and others should be examined by the Committec ( Part of 
Ex . E . 3 ) he had no knowledge that Samel had failed to identify the illustrated 
part of the spare parts from the catalogue in the test held in 1957, and he further 
stated " I would not recommend any Driver Mechanic to be promoted to the post 
of Chargcman if he could not identify the illustrated spare parts from the cata 
logue." He, however corrected himself and added that reading through Ex . E . 4 , 
he would say that at that time he was aware that Samel could not identify the 
illustrated spare parts from the catalogue. He then stated that the only reason 
why he made his endorsement dated 12th May, 1981 in Ex . E . 5 , recommending 
that Samel would be given a fresh chance for the test, was that he felt that 
After the change in the channel of promotion Samel should be given another 
chance. But when further pressed in cross - examination he admitted that when 
he considered the notes ( notings ) in Exhibit E . 3 , he was not aware of the notice 
dated 15th October , 1958 ( Ex . E . 2 ) and he further stated that he hud no know 
ledge uptil the date he gave evidence that the notice dated 15th October, 1958 , had 
been withdrawn . He categorically stated in cross - examination , " I was never told 
either by the General Manager or the Chairman that this Notice of 15th October , 
1958 ( Ex , E . 2 ) has been withdrawn . I was never told by either the General 
Manager or the Chairman that the Notice dated 15th October , 1958 ( Ex . E . 2 ) was 
issued under a mistake and that I should forget all about it . I was not informed 
by Shri K . G . Sarma, the then Chief Engineer , when I made my cndorsements 
dated 2nd May , 1981 and 12th May, 1961 on Ex . E . 3 and 12th May , 1961 on 
Ex . E . 3 and Ex . E , 5 respectively in so many words that the notice dated 15th 
October, 1958 ( Ex . E . 2 ) had been issued under a mistake and that I should forget 
all about it. It is true that Shri K . G . Sarma had not at all referred to the notice 
dated 15th October, 1958 (Ex . E . 2 ) during the time I made my endorsements on 
Ex . E . 3 and Ex . E 5 , I would not allow any candidate to appear for the test to 
qualify for the post of Assistant Chargeman as long as the order , dated 15th 
October , 1958 ( Ex . E . 2 ) remained in force . Before I could allow a candidate to 
appear for such a test the order dated 15th October , 1958 ( Ex . E . 2 ) should have 
been withdrawn . I have never issued any order that the order dated 15th Octo 
ber, 1958, Ex . E . 2 was withdrawn ." 

20 . It is clear from this evidence of the Bombay Port Trust s witness that 
when he made his endorsement on Ex . E . 3 and E . 5 , recommending that Samel 
may be allowed to re - appear for the test , he was in the first place not aware 
that the notice dated 15th October , 1958 ( Ex . E . 2 ) had been issued stating that 
no further chance would be given to the Driyer Mechanics to appear for the 
qualifying test for promotion to the post of Assistant Chargemen . From the 
evidence of Shri Desai ( E . W . 1 ) I am more than satisfied that his endorsements 
on Ex . E , 3 and E . 5 were made by him under a completely mistaken notion and 
in ignorance of material facts not having been brought to his attention or sup 
pressed from him , 


Sec . 3 (ii)) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21 , 1964 / KARTIKA 30 , 1886 4451 


21. I am not at all satisfied by the B . P . T . s contention that the notice of 15th 
October , 1958 Ex . E . 2 was issued by a mistake or that it was illegal, I am rather 
surprised that the B . P . T . Itself should have argued that the notice dated 15th Octo 
ber , 1958, was invalid for the reason that it was in violation of the provision of the 
Section ( A ) of the Industrial Disputes Act. I do not think that that notice 
attracted the provisions of Section 9 ( A ) of the Industrial Disputes Act . In fact 
the administration had gone out of its way and given two more chances one in 
1957 and the other in 1958 to those candidates who had failed in 1956 to pass the 
test for qualifying as Assistant Chargeman . 

22 . I am more than satisfied that Samel was allowed to appear for the test in 
1981 and 1962 in voilation of the order of 15th October, 1958 (Ex. E . 2 ) , which had 
not been corrected or withdrawn hut which had remained in force . 

23 . Now , even assuming that Samel was rightly allowed to appear for the test 
in 1982 and had properly qualificd for the post of Assistant Chargeman , could 
he claim seniority over Seva Singh , who had qualified for this post in 1958 , 
because of his original seniority in the service of the Company ? Shri Desai 
( E . W . 1 ) in his cross - examination by Shri Shetye, ( in modifying what he had 
stated in his cross - examination by Shri S . Maitra ) stated that his interpretation 
of the notice dated 15th October, 1958 was that a candidate who had failed in 
the test for promotion for chargeman s post was not dobarred from re-appearing 
for the test again " but he cannot get promotion over those who had already been 
promoted " . " By being promoted I mean those who have already passed the test" . 
I think this is the correct position , it must be remembered that when Seva Singh 
passed the test in 1956 , he was promoted to the post of Assistant Chargeman , but 
he was told that if within one year , Samel or the others senior to him in service 
passed the test thcy would have seniority over him in the post of Assistant 
Chargeman . The same thing was ropeated when another chance was given to 
Samel and others to appear for the test in 1958 and on 15th October , 1958 a notice 
was issued ( Ex . E . 2 ) prohibiting any further opportunity being given to qualify 
for the post of Chargeman . Thereafter , it cannot be said that it was still open 
to Samel at any time thereafter to pass the test and oust Seva Singh from his 
Beniority . There is nothing in the rules which have been cited before me to 
support such a claim on behalf of Samel. The Bombay Port Trust has sought to 
rely upon the award of the Industrial Tribunal Shri A . Das Gupta , in reference 
No. 5 of 1957, where Shri Das Gupta had laid down certain rules governing 
seniority . But, as rightly pointed out by Shri S . Maitra , those rules were and 
are applicable to the Flotilla Crew and not to the workmen of the Mobile Crane 
Section of the Chief Engineer s Department. Whilst I do not uphold Shri Maitra s 
contention that my award in Reference No. CGIT 65 of 1961 supports him on the 
facts and circumstances of the case , I hold that in the matter of seniority in the 
posts of Assistant Chargeman (Chargeman ) Seva Singh must be considered to 
be senior . This is important for him for the purpose of his future appointments 
in the post of Assistant Chargenian / Chargeman and promotion to higher posts 
and in my opinion the fact that when Şamel qualified and was appointed to 
offciate as Assistant Chargeman , he was drawing a higher basic pay would make 
no difference . 

24 . In conclusion , I cannot but help observing that in this case a competent 
workmen is being sought to be deprived of his seniority in a higher post to which 
he had qualified by merit because of inter -union rivalry and pressure on the 
administration resulting therefrom . I am satisfied that the notice of 15th Octo 
ber , 1958 was sought to be by -passed years later, because of a powerful Unions 
having interested itself and raked up the claim on behalf of Samel who had till 
then been repeatedly held to be incompetent to hold the post of Chargeman . 
Seva Singh qualified to be appointed as Assistant Chargeman in 1956 and Samel 
could not qualify for it till 1962. By the time Samel qualified Seva Singh had 
put in more than 17 months service as Assistant Chargeman and to deprive such 
a workman of his seniority in that post when there was a definite circular dated 
15th October , 1958 that thereafter no one would be permitted to appear for the 
Assistant Chargeman s qualifying test, would amount to make it a travesty of 
the principle of seniority - cum - suitability on which the appointment to the post of 
chargeman are admittedly made , 

25 . In the result I hold that Seva Singh is senior to Samel for the purposes 
of promotion for the post of Chargeman and award accordingly . 
26 . No order as to costs. 

( Sd .) SALIM M , MERCHANT, 

Presiding Officer. 
[No. 28 / 100 / 63 / LR .IV .] 


Charter than an change purposingh tens opponents chim Maitra 


4152 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 / KARTIKA 90 , 1886 [PART II 


S . O . 3998 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hercby publishes the following uward of 
thre Arbitrator in the industrial dispute between the Bombay Port Trust, Bombay 
and their workmen represented by the Bombay Port Trust General Workers 
Union , Bombay which was received by the Central Government on the 6th 
November 1964 , 


ARBITRATOR S AWARD 
(Under Section 10 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947) 
IN THE MATTER OF THE ARBITRATION 

BETWEEN 
The Trustees of the Port of Bombay 

AND 

Their Workmen 
Employed as _ Steam Crane Drivers and Mobile Crane Drivers, Grade II, 

in the Engineering Department. 
PRESENT 

F . Jeejeebhoy , Barrister- at -Law , Arbitrator. 
APPEARANCES : 

Representing Employers : Shri M . R . S . Captain , I.O .M . 

Representing Workmen : Shri S . Maitra . 
The Trustees of the Port of Bombay and their workmen employed as Steam 
Crane Drivers and Mobile Crane Drivers, Grade II , of the Engineering Department 
have agreed to refer the following disputes to my sole arbitration : - - 
" Whether under the Scheme recommended by the Committee appointed by 

the Government of India , Ministry of Transport and Communications, 

by its Resolution No. 23 -PLA ( 103 ) / 59, dated 12th May 1960 — 
( 1 ) Steam Crane Drivers of the Bombay Port Trust are entitled to pay 

ment at Piece Rates and , if so, whether such payment should be 

made with effect from 1st October 1962 ; and 
(2 ) Mobile Crane Drivers, Grade II, are entitled to payment at Piece 

Rates in the following circumstances : — 
( i) while operating a Tractor or a Fork - lift in conjunction with a Steam 

Crane or a Loco Crane at the Docks; 
( ii) while operating a Tractor, a Fork - lift, or a Platform Truck in con 

junction with a Coles or other Mobile Crane used as a wharf 
crane at the Docks, at Frere Basin or at Hay or Haji Bunder : 

and 
( iii ) while operating a Tractor , a Fork - lift, or a Platform Truck with 


2 . The Reference Agreement which is dated the 4th August 1964 has been 
duly published in the Gazette of India by an Order of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour and Employment, dated 8th September 1964 . 

3. This Reference is based upon the Report of the Committee appointed by 
the Government of India to examine the feasibility of evolving the system of 
payment by results to certain categories of employees under the Bombay and 
Madras Port Trusts and the Bombay Dock Labour Board . The date of the Report 
is 19th June 1962. 

4 . The categories now before me are the Stcam Crane Drivers and the Mobile 
Crane Drivers, Grade II, who claim that while working as stated in the issues 
they are entitled to payment at Piece Rates in terms of the Committee s Report . 

5. As regards Issue ( I) , we are here concerned with the three classes of Steam 
Cranes ; 
( a ) Four Steam Cranes which are completely mobile and move and work 

under their own steam , 


Sko. 8 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964/ KARTIKA 80 , 1886 4453 


( b ) Three Steam Cranes which are also mobile and work under their 

own steam , but which can move only on the railway track . 
( c ) One 3 - ton and one 20 - ton Steam Cranes which are used as stationary 

cranes for heavy lifts, but which nevertheless have to be moyeu lroin 
place to place along the wharf on tracks. These Cranes cannot be 
regarded as Mobile Cranes . 


6 . The Committee had arrived at the conclusion that ( among other categories ) 
the mobile crane drivers , including operators of tractors , fork - litts , and platform 
trucks at Bombay and Madras when engaged on a ship unloading , were eligible 
for induction into the general concept of the existing scheme of Picce Rates . The 
ratio decidendi of the Committee s decision is as stated in Paragraph ( 9 ) of its 
Report, namely , the following categories of dock workers of Bombay and Madras 
Ports , having regard to their functions as being in some way associated with the 
handling of cargo of the respective Ports , or as lying within the cycle of upera 
tions, * * * , are eligible for induction into the general concept of the existing 
scheme of Picce Rates , by being geared to it in some appropriate manner . 


7 . It is the Union s case that in the terms of the Committee s Report the 
specified catcgories in this Reference are entitled to Piece Rates and should not 
be cxcluded from the operation of the Committee s findings. 


8 . I have heard the parties fully on the issues , and I was glad to have their 
assistance, and on some matters their concurrence, 


9 . I award that Issue ( I ) shall be answered in the affirmative in respect of 
the aforesaid four Steam Cranes which are completely mobile , and also in respect 
of the three Steam Cranes which can move only on railway track . The Areman 
attached to the Steam Crane, and in some cases there are two persons, should 
each get as Piece Rate earnings an amount cquivalent to twenty - five per cent 
of the Mobile Crane Drivers Plece Rate earnings , which in turn will be ascer 
tained according to the terms of Paragraph ( 14 ) of the Committee s Report. 


10 , As regards Issue ( 2 ) ( i) I award that as a corollary to the decision on 
Isgue ( 1 ) the Mobile Crane Drivers . Grade II, shall get Piece Rates according 
to Paragraphs ( 14 ) and ( 15 ) of the Report, while operating a tractor or a fork 
ut in conjunction with the said seven Steam Cranes at the Docks when engaged 
on a ship unloading. 


11. As regards Issue ( 2 ) (11), I award that the Mobile Crane Drivers , Grade 
II , will be entitled to payment at Piece Rates us provided by Paragraphs ( 14 ) 
and ( 15 ) of the Committee s Report while operating a tractor , a fork - lift, or a 
platform truck , in conjunction with a Coles or other Mobile Crane used as a 
whart crane (other than heavy lift crane ) at the docks, at Frere Basin or Hay 
or Haji Bunder , 


12 . Issue ( 2 ) ( iii ) . By this issue it is claimed that Mobile Crane Drivers , 
Grade II, are entitled to payment by Piece Rates while operating a tractor , or 
fork - lift, or platform truck with shore workers other than Baroots . Baroots are 
a category of stackers in Bombay Port who have traditionally worked as stackers 
of particular types of cargo , and a list of what they did not stack was given 
as an Exhibit as far back as 1954 when the Piece Rate Scheme was originally 
before the Bombay Tribunal. The Committee has not included all shore workers 
of Bombay in the Piece Rate Scheme, but it did extend the scheme to the Baroots 
by specific designation , Wien tamporary Baroots are required , the men selected 
for the work are given the higher wages of Baroots . Such is the background 
to this question . It is however clear that the answer to this issue must be in 
the negative. The Reference to me is whether under the scheme recommended 
by the Committee the Mobile Crane Drivers, Grade II , are entitled to Piece 
Rates while operating a tractor, a fork - lift , or a platform truck with shore workers 
other than Baroots . The answer is that the Committee did not so recommend , 
and tho claim made in this last issue fails. 


13 . As regards the retrospective effect which has been claimed , there is no 
practical difficulty anticipated by giving such retrospective effect. I think it is 
just that retrospective effect should be given to the relevant provisions of this 
award from the date on which the Committee s recommendations were imple 
Inented . It is however clear that those persons now before me who lefused 
to do their allotted work would not be entitled to retrospective effect for the 
periods of their refusal. 


4454 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1984 /KARTIKA 30 , 1886 [PART II 


14. Now therefore I hereby make my Award in terms aforesaid this the third 
day of November 1984 , 

Sd . / - F . JEEJEEBHOY, 

Arbitrator . 
[No, 28 / 93 /64/LR . IV . ] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 10th November 1964 
S . O . 3999 . - - Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Bank of Maharashtra 
Limited and their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas, the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Gov . 
ernment hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, 
Bombay, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Whether the management of the Bank of Maharashtra Limited was Justified 
In aithholding the salary of the clerk Shri S . C . Hiwarkar for the period between 
the 10th March 1964 and 30th March , 1964 without following the procedure laid 
down in paragraph 18 . 28 of the Award , dated the 7th June, 1962 of the National 
Industrial Tribunal ( Bank Disputes), Bombay , published with the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No . S . O . 2028 
dated the 13th June, 1962 ? 
( 2 ) If not, to what relief is Shri Hiwarkar entitled ? 

[No, 51(65) / 64 -LRIV . ) 


S . O . 4000... -Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the employers in rela 
tion to the Calcutta Port Commissioners, Calcutta and their workmen represented 
by the National Union of Port Trust Employees, Calcutta ; 

And whereas the said employers and the said workmen have, under sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , agreed to refer 
the dispute to arbitration by an Arbitration Agreement and have forwarded to the 
Central Government under sub - section ( 3 ) of the said section a copy of the said 
Arbitration Agreement; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 10A of the said Act, 
the Central Government hereby publishes the said Arbitration Agreement which 
was received by it on the 5th November , 1984 , 

Agreement 
(Under Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947) 

Betroen 
The Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta and their workmen . 


Representing Employers — Shri S . K . Ghogh , Deputy Chairman , The Commissioners 

for the Port of Calcutta, 15 Strand Road , Calcutta - 1 , 


Representing workmen — The National Union of Port Trust Employees, 10 Mohan 

Chand Road , Calcutta - 23 . 
It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial dispute 
to the arbitration of Shri Subodh Chandra Mukherjee, Şarsuna, Chaudhurlpara , 
Calcutta - 8 . 
(1) Specific matters in dispute . 

Whether making coal fre for light 
ing up of locomotives as well as of 
lighting and building Are in fire boxes 
of locomotives ; and 


Sec. $ (li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21 , 1964 / KARTIKA 80 , 1886 4455 


whether shifting of locomotives inside 
the shed of the yard attached to the 
loco shed including point setting , 
coupling etc .; 

Are part of the duties and responsi 


not, how many of the cleaners are 
involved in carrying out the above 
jobs and what relief, if any, they 

ought to be allowed . 
(ii) Details of the parties to the dispute The Chief Mechanical Engineer , 

including the name and address No. 8 Garden Reach Road , Calcutta 
of the establishment or undertaking 43 and the Loco Cleaners attached 
involved , 

with the Loco Shed of the Loco Sec 
tion under the Chief Mechanical En 
gineer of the Commissioners for the 

Port of Calcutta . 
( iii ) Name of the Union , if any, represent The National Union of Port Trust 
ing the workmen In question . 

Employees, No. 10 Mohan Chand Road, 

Calcutta -23. 
( iv ) Total number of workmen employed The total number of employees in 
in the undertaking affected . 

the Calcutta Port is 40 ,000 approxi 

mately . 
( v ) Estimated number of workmen 

38 . 
affected or likely to be affected by 

the dispute , 
We further agree that the decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on us , 

Signature of parties , 

Sd / 

Deputy Chairman , 

The Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta. 
Witnesses : 
(1 ) Sd / 

Sd / 
7 - 10 - 64 . 

General Secretary , 
( 2) Sd / - R . R . SHARMA, 

National Union of Port Trust Employees . 
Secretary , N .U . P. T.E . 
7 - 10 -64 , 


In the matter of the following industrial dispute between the Commissioners for 
the Port of Calcutta , represented by Sri S . K . Ghosh , Deputy Chairman , the Com 
missioners for the Port of Calcutta and their workmen , represented by the National 
Union of Port Trust Employees , 10 Mohan Chand Road , Calcutta - 23 , I, Sri Subodh 
Chandra Mukherjee . Sarsuna, Chaudhuripara, Calcutta - 8 do hereby give my consent 
to act as an Arbitrator . 

Whether making coal fire for lighting up of locomotives as well as of lighting 
and building fire in fire boxes of locomotives ; and 


Whether ghifting of locomotives inside the shed of the yard attached to the loco 
shed including point setting , coupling etc .; 


Are part of the duties and responsibilities of the loco cleaners or not. If not. 
how many of the cleaners are involved in carrying out the above jobs and what 
relief, if any, they sought to be allowed , 

Sd / - SUBODH CHANDRA MUKHERJEE . 


Dated ; the 19th October, 1984 , 


er Secy . 


4456 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 80, 1886 (PART II 


New Delhi, the 10th November 1964 
S . O . 4001. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of article 258 
of the Constitution , the President hereby entrusts to the Government of Madhya 
Pradesh , with the consent of that Government, the functions of the Central 
Government under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , in so far as they 
relate to industrial disputes concerning the industrial establishment specified in 
the Schedule hereto annexcd . 


Me diante to imeunder the onder bereby conferred 


THE SCHEDULE 
The Coke Oven and Bye - Products Section of the Bhilai Steel Plant. 

[ No. 8 / 167/ 63 - LR -II.} 
New Delhi, the 11th November 1964 
S . O . 4002 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following corrections 
made by the Central Government Industrial Tribunal. Calcutta under rule 28 of 
the Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules, 1957, in its award made in the industrial 
dispute between the employers in relation to the Adjai II Colliery , Post Office 
Charanpur, District Burdwan , and their workmen published , with the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S .O . 
3302 , dated the 3rd September, 1964 on pages 3725 to 3729 of the Gazette of India , 
Part II , Section 3 , Sub - section ( li ) , dated the 12th September , 1964 , namely : 
In the said award, at the end ; 

for " Dated , 2nd August, 1964 " 
read " Dated , 28th August , 1964 " , 

Sd ./ - L . P . DAVE 

Presiding Officer. 

[No. 6 / 8 /63 -LRII. ) 
$ . 0 , 4003 . In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Dispute Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal Dhanbad in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the North Bhagatdih Colliery, Post Office Jharla , District Dhanbad , 
and their workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 6th 
November, 1964 . 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 


Act, 1947 (XIV of 47 ) 

REFERENCE No. 13 OF 1963 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the North Bhagataih Colliery , P . O . Jharla , District 

Dhranbad , Bihar . 


AND 


Their workmen . 
PRESENT ; 

Sri Raj Kishore Prasad , M . A . B .L ., Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 

For the employers - Sri S . S . Mukherjee , Advocate 

For the workmen - Sri Shankar Bose, Secretary, Colllery Mazdoor Sangh . 
STATE : Bihar . 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad , dated 23rd September, 1964 

AWARD 
Ministry of Labour & Employment, Government of India . by Its Order No. 2 / 
118 / 62-LRII , dated 6th February 1963, referred under Section 10 ( 1) ( d ) of the 


Sec . $(il)] THE GAZETNE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 30, 1886 4457 


Act for adjudication to this Tribunal, an industrial dispute existing between the 
employers in relation to the North Bhagatdih Colliery and their workmen in 
respect of the matter specified below : 


" Whether the management of North Bhagatdih Colliery , P .O . Jharla , 

(District Dhanbad ) were responsible for the cessation of work of Sri 


relief is he entitled ? 
2 . On 22nd September 1964 both the parties appeared before the Tribunal. 
The management was represented by Saryashree S , S . Mukherjee , Advocate, and , 
M . M . Agarwalla , Superintendent of the Company , and the concerned workman 
was represented by himself and by Sri Shankar Bose , Secretary, Colliery Mazdoor 
Sangh . 

3 . Both the parties Aled a joint petition of compromise , signed by the atore 
said persons and jointly prayed that an award in terms of the said compromise 
be made , 

4 . According to the compromise the workman concerned Sri Sugrim Raj Bhar : 


service with effect from 8th July 1962 has been confirmed . The management, 
however, has agreed to pay a lump sum of Rs, 5001 - in full and final settlement 
of all his claims and dues to the workman concerned , and he will also be entitled 
to be paid any other amount to which he may be entitled or to any other sum 
which may be in deposit to his credit. According to the compromise the workman 
concerned will vacate the colliery quarter occupied by him within seven days , 
from the date of the compromise and then the management will pay the above 
sum of Rs. 500 / - on receipt of vacant possession of the quarter from the workman 
concerned . It may be stated here that it was represented before me by the work 
man concerned that the quarter in which he is living does not stand in his name 
and he is not its allottee and , therefore , he says it would be impossible for him to 
vacate the house which belongs to another person and not to him . The manage 
ment has very rightly agreed that it will look into its records and find out the 
correct position . If the management Ands that the house in question is not in 
the name of the workman concerned the question of its vacating by him will not 
arise and to that extent the compromise will stand modified with the consent of 
the parties concerned . 

5 . It was further agreed between the parties that the aforesaid sum of 
Rs. 500 / - will be paid to the concerned workman as soon as possible . Subject to 
to the above modification , therefore, I accept the compromise , the terms of Which 
otherwise are quite fair and reasonable and in the Interest of both parties. 

6 . The reference, therefore, is disposed of in terms of the compromise dated : 
the 22nd September 1964, which is marked Annexure A and an award in terms 
of it is made and the said compromise is made a part of it. 

7. This is the award which I make and submit to the Government of India 
under Section 15 of the Act . 
Dhanbad : 23rd September 1964 . 

Sd ./ - RAJ KISHORE PRASAD , 

Presiding Officer . 

ANNEXURE A 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No . 13 OF 1963 
Employers in relation to North Bagadih Colliery , 


Their workmen . 

The parties above named beg to state that the above reference is amicably 
settled between the parties on the following terms. This is without prejudice to 
the contentions of parties raised in their respective written statemens. 

1 . That the service of Sri Sugrim Rai Bhar , Miner , the workman concerned IA 
the present dispute will stand terminated with effect from 8th July 1962. 


-4458 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 30, 1886 [Paki II 


2 . That Sri Sugrim Raj Bhar does not claim 


any reinstatement in service. 


Anal settlement of all his claim and dues to Sri Sugrim Fiaj Bhar. Any other 
amount to which he will be entitled will be paid to him . 

4 . That Sri Sugrim Raj Bhar will vacate the colliery quarter occupied by him 
within seven days from today and the management will pay the above sum of 
Rs. 500 / - ( five hundred ) on receipt the vacant delivery of possession from Sri 
Sugrim Raj Bhar. 

It is humbly prayed that the above reference be disposed of on the terms 
aforesaid and an award passed accordingly . 
For Employer ; 

For Workmen : 
( M . M . AGARWALA ) 

( SHANKAR Bose ), 
Superintendent. 

Secretary . 

Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . 
(S . S . MUKHERJEA), 

(SUGRIM RAJ BHAR ), 
Advocate. 

Workman . 
Dhanbad , the 22nd September 1984 . 

[No. 2 / 115 / 62 -LR - II.] 


New Delhi, the 12th November 1964 
S . O . 4004 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Indus 
trial Tribunal Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the North Bhagatdih Colliery , Post Office Dhansar , District Dhanbad , and their 
workmen which was received by the Central Government on the 5th November, 
1964 , 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD . 

REFERENCE No. 26 OF 1963 
PARTIER : 

Employers in relation to the North Bhagatdih Colliery , Post Office, Dhanbad , 
District Dhanbad . 


AND 


Their workmen 
PRESENT ; 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad , M . A , B . L .,- Presideng Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 


For the workmen : Sri Shankar Bose , Secretary , Colllery Mazdoor Sangh . 
STATE : Bihar. 

INDUSTRY : Coal 
Dhanbad , dated the 23rd September, 1964 

AWARD 
Ministry of Labour & Employment, Government of India , by its Order 
No. 2 / 8 / 63 - LRIT , dated the 22nd March , 1963, referred , under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of 
the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 , to this Tribunal for adjudication , an industrial 
dispute existing between the employers in relation to the North Bhagatdih 
Colliery and their workmen in respect of the matter specified below , 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the termination of the services of Sri Ram Karan Bhar , Coal 

Cutter , by the management of North Bhagatdih Colllery P . O . Dhansar. 


Sec. 9 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 80, 1886 4459 


Distt. Dhanbad , with effect from the 15th December, 1962, was 

justified ? If not, to what relief is he entitled ? 
7 . The employers Aled their written statement on 26th April 1963 in which they 
took an objection that the present dispute was an individual dispute and not an 
industrial dispute but this point was not pressed at the hearing and , therefore, no . 
opinion is expressed thereon . . 

In the written staternent, it is stated by the management that the workman 
concerned was away from his duties since 24th July 1962 on account of continued 
Ill health ; that during the conciliation proceedings the management was informed 
that the workman concerned was undergoing treatment in the Central Hospital, 
Dhanbad , from 17th August 1962 to 8th September 1962 and was directed by 
the Hospital doctors to continue treatment and further learnt that the Superinten 
dent, Central Hospital, Dhanbad , on 16th October 1962 recommended light duties to 
Sri Ram Karan Bhar; that after the discharge of the workman concerned dated 
8th September 1962 he did not send any intimation nor did he apply for leave and 
even on or after 10th October 1962 he did not at any time report for duty and , 
therefore, as he remained absent without any information or authorised leave since 
after 8th September 1962 a registered letter was sent to him on 22nd October 1982 
Asking him to resume his duties by 7th November 1962 but he refused to accept the 
said letter ; that the workman concerned neither accepted the letter dated 22nd 
October 1962 Exhibit M nor sent any information nor rcparted for duties and as the 
manageinent could not wait indefinitely so his services were terminated on account 
of continued ill-health , by letter dated 15th December 1982 Exhibit M . 7 It may 
be noted that even after the letter of 22nd October 1962 Exhibit M asking the 
workman concerned to resume duties , which he refused to accept, the 
management waited for two months till his services were terminated on 15th 
December 1962 and during this period there was no information either from him or 
froin anybody on his behalf ; that, therefore, the management was justified in 
terminating the services of the workman concerned with effect from 15th December 
1963 and as such he was not entitled to any relief. 

3 . On behalf of the workman concerned the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh Aled a 
written statement on 6th May 1963 in which it was stated that the workman con 
cerned . who was appointed as Coal Cutter , was in permanent employment of the 
colliery for 5 years; that he fell sick on 24th July 1962 and was treated by the 
Colliery Doctor from 24th July 1962 to 30th July 1962 and thereafter he was sent 
to the Central Hospital, Dhanbad , for treatment; and there he was treated as an 
out-door patient from 31st July 1962 to 16th August 1982 and when his condition 
became precarious he was admitted as an indoor patient from 17th August 1962 to 
8th September 1982 and when he was discharged from the hospital on 8th Septem 
ber 1962. with medical fitness , he was asked to continue medicine and regular 
treatment; and in accordance with the said advice he continued treatment and 
after completing full course he got himself examined by the Doctor concerned on 
16th October 1982 and after medical examination the doctor advised him to resume 
light duties; that when he reported for duty and requested to be allowed to resume 
his duties, the management did not allow him to resume his duties and thereafter 
a representation was made to the Manager of the Colliery on 31st October 1963 
but even then he was not allowed to resume his duties ; that, thereafter . on 22nd 
December 1962 the General Secretary of the Colllery Mazdoor Sangh referred the 
dispute to the Conciliation Officer but due to the adamant attitude of the manage 
rent the conciliation failed , that. therefore , it was submitted that the workman 

oncerned had been victimised for his trarle union activities as he was an active 
nemher of the Sargh and was duly elected as Vice President and , therefore , as the 
termination of his service is illegal and malafide, it should be set aside and he 
should be reinstateri in his previous jou , 

4 . On ? 2nd September 1964 when the case was taken up both the parties were 
resent. The management was represented by Sri $ . S . Mukherjee, Arlvocate , 
und the workman concerned was represented by Sri Shankar Bose . Both the 
partiou filed documents, which , with mutual consent. were marked Exhibits M to 
M . 7 for the Company and Exhibits W to 7 5 for the concerned workman , Wit 
nesses were examined by both sides . M . W . 1 Sri P . S . Choudhury and M . W . 2 
D D Chatterjee . were examined on behalf of the management and W . W . 1 
Sri Ram Karan Bhar , workman concerned , was examined on his behalf. 

5 . In this case admittedly no charge sheet was dellvered to the workman con 
rerned nor any enquiry was held and the service of the concernent. workman was 
terminated without any charge sheet or any enquiry . Sri Mukherjee submitted 
that on the facts of the present care when the workman was away from duty from 
24th July 1962 due to his continued ill health and he was unable to do work and 
did not report for duty , in such a case no domestic enquiry was necessary , because 


4460 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 30, 1886 [PART II 


even if any charge sheet would have been delivered to him the workman con 
cerned had no conceivable reply to the same. Shri Mukherjee , therefore , submit 
ted that the principles laid down by the Supreme Court in Burn and Co . 1957 ( 1 ) 
L .LJ. 220 , at page 234 , should apply to the present case . 

6 . On the facts of the present case , in my opinion , these principles have no 
application here for the simple reason that in the case before Their Lordships of 
the Supreme Court the workinen were arrested and they were in custody and, 
therefore , they could not join duties. But in the present case that is not the posi 
tion . On the facts stated above the workman concerned had prima facie defence 
to make to the charge and , therefore , in my opinion , termination of his service 
without serving any charge sheet to him and without giving him any opportunity 
to explain the circumstances against him and without holding an enquiry into 
the charge sheet is by itself suficient to make the termination of his service invald 
and illegal and on that ground alone it must be set aside, 

7. On the facts , and on the evidence in the case , however , I am not satisfied 
that the conduct of the management was bonafide. The workman concerned was 
treated by the Colliery doctor from 24th July 1962 to 30th July 1982 and , there 
after , he was sent for treatment to Central Hospital at Dhanbad by the Colliery 
Doctor and there he remained an outdoor patient from 31st July 1962, to 18th 
August 1962, and , thereafter, an indoor patient from 17th August 1962 to 8th Sep 
tember 1962. On 16th October 1962 he was examined by the doctor and recom 
mended for light work . Even on these facts the management in its written state 
ment in para 5 said that it was during conciliation proceedings that the manage 
ment was informed about the treament of the workman concerned at the Central 
Hospital at Dhanbad from 17th August 1962 to 8th September 1962 and further 
ithat he was directed by the Central Hospital to continue treatment. I cannot 
understand this position when the workman was sent by the Colliery Doctor 
himself. This shows that the attitude of the management was not bonafide. 
According to the evidence of the workman W . W . 1 when he was given discharge 
certificate by the Hospital he went to the Manager but the Manager refused to 
give him work and after his discharge he was residing in the Dhowrah at the 
Colliery . He admits to have not applied for leave after the discharge from the 
hospital, 

8 . In this connection , story of the management that it sent a registered letter 
dated 22nd October 1962 Exhibit M to the workman concerned at his residence 
asking him to resume duties by 7th November 1962 failing which he was to be 
considered as unable to resume his duties owing to 111 health and that it was 
refused by the workman concerned has to be examined. If it is correct then 
certainly the workman is not entitled to any relief. But I am afraid I am not 
impressed with this story of the management. In support of fts case that this 
letter Exhibit M was sent by registered post , the registered letter Exhibit M , 2 
and the acknowledgment receipt thereof Exhibit M , 3 have been Aled . The 
registered letter shows that on its back an endorsement by somebody, alleged to 
have been written by the postal peon , dated 2nd November 1962 is there which 
shows that the workman refused to take it . Unfortunately , the postal peon , who 
is alleged to have taken the registered letter to the workman at his residence and 
tendered it to him has not been examined to prove that he tendered this letter to 
the workman and that he ( the postal peon ) wrote the endorsement on the back of 
this envelope. It has not, therefore , been established as to who wrote this endorse 
nient and under what circumstances because there are endorsements of different 
dates , namely , 27th October 1962, 28th October 1962 , 29th October 1962 and 30th 
October 1962 but probably they were initials only and it is only on 2nd November 
1962 that the endorsement that the addressee refused to accept it is noted . In the 
absence of the evidence of the postal peon , who was entrusted with the work of 
serving this registered letter, I cannot accept the story of the management. Fur 
thermore , there is no evidence of any person to show that in his presence this 
registered letter Exhibit M , 2 was tendered to the workman concerned and he 
refused it on 2nd November 1962. 

The manager M . W . 1 stated that Sartoo Chaprasi was sent by him to call the 
workman concerned from his house but the workman refused to come, after the 
letter dated 22nd October 1962 Exhibit M was not accepted . Sarjoo Peon is 
still in the service of the company but he was not examined . 


More curious still is the fact that although the Manager says · in his cross 
examination that the workman was sent on 31st July 1962 to Central Hospital, 
Dhanbad , before which he was being treated by his Colliery Doctor and he was in 
the Dhanbad Central Hospital for more than three months, he did not enquire 
from the Central Hospital about the illness of the concerned workman . 


SEC. 8 ( ii)] 


THE GAZETTIE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 / KARTIKA 30 , 1886 4461 


It is true that the Manager M . W . 1 says that it is not a fact that the concerned 
workman saw him with his final discharge letter but it is more natural that wheri 
the workman was declared fit for normal duties he would naturally approach the 
management for work . In the written statement the management in para 5 says, 
as stated earlier also , that it was during the conciliation proceeding that the 
management was informed that the workman concerned was in the Central 
Hospital from 17th August 1962 to 8th September 1962 . When this workman was 
sent to the Central Hospital for treatment by the Colllery Doctor it was certainly 
the duty of the management to enquire from the said Hospital from time to time 
and obtain Information trom there . But nothing of the kind was done. It was 
only on 16th October 1962 that the Superintendent Central Hospital recommended 
light duty to the workman and then he approached the Manager with the certi 
Acate but he was not given any job . On 31st October 1962 the Union sent a 
letter to the Manager Exhibit W to give him light duties but the management 
denies to have received this letter . The management, however , has not produced 
its register which it must be keeping in which letters received and despatched 
must be noted in order to show that letter Exhibit W was not received . On 22nd 
December 1962 the Union thereafter wrote a letter to the Conciliation Omcer 
Exhibit W . 1 complaining that the management was not giving light duties to the 
workman concerned as recommended by the Doctor on 16th October 1982 although 
approached by the workman concerned . Exhibit W . 2 dated 17th July 1962 shows 
that the Union informed the Manager of the colllery about the names of the 
office bearers and the workman concerned is one of the Vice Presidents for the 
year 1962-63, Exhibit W . 5 iş a ticket for out door patient and it shows that it 
was on 19th December 1962 that the workman concerned was declared quite 
alright now and was advised to resume his duties . But he was asked to come for 


ment of the workman W . W , 1 that after he was given alscharge certiAcate and 
declared At for light work on 16th October 1982 he did go to the manager and 
requested him for light work but he was refused obviously because he was Vice 
President of the Union and as such not liked by the management, 

9 . For the reasons given above, therefore , I hold that, on the facts given above. 
the termination of the service of the workman concerned is malafide by way of 
victimisation because the workman happened to be a Vice President of the Union , 
otherwise there seems to be no reason why when he was declared Alt for light 
work and management was approached he was given no fight work , 

10 . The result, therefore , is that the reference in answered in favour of the 
workman concerned by holding that the termination of the services of Ram Karan 
Bhar, Coal Cutter , by the management of North Bhagatdih Colliery with effect 
from 15th December 1982 was unjustified , and , therefore , it is set aside and he 
is reinstated in his former job with full back wages , with effect Irom 15th Decem 
ber 1962, till the date of his reinstatement. He will also be entitled to other 
ecoluments to which he may be entitled . He will also have the benefit of conti 
nuity of service from 24th July 1962 till the date of his reinstatement. 

11. This award must be implemented within one month from the date when 
the award becomes effective under Section 17A of the Industrial Disputes Act after 
its publication under Section 17 of the Act. 


under Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947. 
Dhanbad : the 23rd September, 1964 . 

Sd ./ - RAJ KISHORE PRASAD , 

Presiding Officer, 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad , 
[No, 2 / 8 / 63-LR .II . ] 


New Delhi, the 13th November 1964 


S . O . 4005 , - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under section 
33A of the said Act, from Sarvashri A . Appana and four other workmen of Ledo 
Colliery ( Assam ) , which was received by the Central Government on the 10th 
November 1984 . 


4462 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 80 , 1886 (PART II 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

DHANBAD . 
(Camp : Circuit House Dibrugarh ) 

COMPLAINT NO . 23 OF 1962 
(Arising out of Reference No. 83 / 61) 

(u /s 33 A ) 
PARTIES ; 
A . Appana, P . Suraya, M . Narsimloo , R , Tataiya and B . Tataiya, Workmen 

employed in Ledo Colliery , Assam - Complainant , 


Vs. 


Messrs. Assam Railways & Trading Co. Ltd ., Marghcritta. - -Opposite party . 
FRESENT: 
Shri Raj Kishorc Prasad, M .A ., B .L .- Presiding Officer. 

Dated Dibrugarh , the 4th November, 1964. 
APPEARANCES : 


Shri B . R . Das, Advocate with Shri A . Rehman , Assistant Chief Personnel 

Officer of the Company for the opposite party . 
STATE : Assam 

INDUSTRY ; Coal. 


Case taken up . Sarvashree B , R . Das, Advocate , and A , Rehman Assistant 
Chief Personnel Officer of Assam Railways & Trading Co . Ltd . appear for the 
Company . opposite party : Although it is 11 - 45 A . M . no one has so far appeared 
for the Complainants and none of the five complainants even has also appeared 
so far. The case was fixed for hearing at 10 A . M . and the notice issued on 21st 
September , 1964 informing About the date and the venue fixed was served on 
28th September , 1964 and received by some one whose signature cannot be read 
and deciphered on behalf of the five romplainants yet there is no appearance , 
Shri K . Borthakur Advocate and Shri J. N . Dowerah Secretary Asssam Colliery 


1961 today and who are present just now say that they do not represent these 
complaints and that they do not appear in this case as their Union is not 
representing them , 

In these circumstances after waiting for 2 Hours 15 minutes I dismiss this 
complaint for non - prosecution for default of the complaints. 
The Complaint accordingly is dismissed for default. 

$ d . / - RAJ KISHORE PRASAD , 

Presiding Officer . 

[No. 1 / 9 / 61 -LRII, ] 
S . O . 4000 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under section 
33A of the said Act, from Sarvashri Narsingh Lama and Saligram Upadhya , 
workmen of Baragolai Colliery, Post Office Baragolai ( Assam ) which was 
received by the Central Government on the 10th November 1964 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , 

DHANBAD , 
Camp. - Circuit House , Dibrugarh (Assam ) 

COMPLAINT No. 10 or 1961 
(Arising out of Reference No. 44 / 60) 

(u / s 33 A ) 
PARTIES : 
Narsingh Lama and Saligram Upadhya, Workmen employed at Baragolai 
Colliery Complainant. 

Vs. 
Management in relation to the Assam Railway & Trading Co. - Opposite 

party . 
PREJENI ; 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad , MA. B . L . - - Presiding Officer . 


Sec . $ (ii)1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21 , 1964 / KARTIKA 80 , 1886 4463 


Dated Dibrugarh , the 4th November, 1964 . 


APPEARANCE : 
Shri K . Borthakur, Advocate with Shri J . N . Dowerah , Secretary , Assam 

Colliery Mazdoor Congress — for the Complainants , 


Officer of the Company for the Opposite party . 
STATE : Assam . 


INDUSTRY : Coal. 


AWARD 
1 . The Complaint was taken up at the request of both the parties at Dibrugarh 
in the District of Lakhimpur in Assam on 2nd November , 1984 . Sarvasree 
K . Borthakur, B . L . Advocate , Dibrugarh and J . N . Dowerah Secretary of the 
Aggam Colliery Mazdoor Congress , Dibrugarh appeared for the two workmen 
complainants, namely, Narsing Lama and Saligram Upadhya . 

Saryasree B . R . Das Advocate and A . Rehman , Assistant Chiet Personnel 
Omcer of the Company appeared for the Assam Railways & Trading Co. Ltd . 
opposite party . 

2 . After some time and after documents on both sides had been exhibited 
and marked as exhibits , at the request of both the parties the case wag Axed for 
today to enable them to effect Compromise it possible . 

3 . Today on 4th November 1964 a joint petition of compromise marked Anne 
xure A is Alled by the parties and both jointly pray that award in terms of it be 
passed and the Compromise Annexure A be made a part of the award . 

4 . I have read the terms of the compromise and in my opinion they are quite 
fair and in the interest of both the parties and therefore they are accepted . 

5 . In tihe result the complaint is disposed of in terms of the above compromise 
Annexure A and an award in terms of this compromise Annexure A is made 
which is made a part of the award . 

6 . This is the award which I make and submit to the Central Government 
under section 15 of the I, D , Act. 

Sd ./ - RAJ KISHORE PRASAD , 

Presiding Officer. 


ANNEXURE A 


CAMP : DIBRUGARH 

COMPLAINT No. 10 OF 1961/1995 
Sarvasree Narsing Lama and Saligram Upadhya - Complainants, 

Vs. 
The Management, The Assam Railway & Trading Co . Ltd ., Margheritta 

Opposite party . 
The humble joint petition of the parties above numed . 
Respectfully Shewith : 


on the following terms and conditions: - 

(A ) The complainants hereby withdraw the complaint. 
( B ) The management hereby agrees to re - employ the complainants to their 

former jobs that is Coal Pollars , the work they had been doing at 

the time they met with accidents , 
( C ) The complainants will receive wages which they had respectively 

been drawing of the Category in which they were working it the 
time of sustaining injury and they will be paid their wages according 
to the Merchants Award applicable to their category but without 
any increment for back years. 


4464 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21 , 1964 /KARTIKA 80 , 1886 [PART II 


1 


- 


. G 


( D ) The Complainants will have to join their work latest by the 30th 


re - employment will remain open to them . 
( E ) The complainants will not demand nor will the management be liable 

to pay any back wages for re - employing them to their former jobs 
in the Collieries of the management. The period of unemployment 

will be treated as period of leave without wages and increments. 
It is therefore prayed that the Honourable Tribunal may be pleased to record 
this settlement and to pass necessary orders accordingly . 

And the petitioners as duty bound etc ., etc . 
1 . SALIGRAM UPADHYA . 


2 . NARSING LAMA, 
Left hand thumb impression of 

Narsing Lama, 
Sd ./ - K . Borthakur. 


The Assam Railways & Trading Co. Ltd ., 

by 

A . REHMAN 
Asstt . Chief Personnel Officer , 
Assam Railway & Trading Co. Ltd . 


DIBRUGARH ; 
The 4th November, 1964. 
Sd . / - K . BORTHAKUR , 

Advocate for the complainants. 


Sd ./ - B . R . Dass , 
Advocate for the complainants . 

[No. 4 /57/ 60 -LRII. ] 


ORDERS 
New Delhi, the 10th November 1964 


dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Singareni Collieries Com 
pany Limited and their workmen in respect of the matters specifed in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas. the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause ( d ) 
of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act . 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ), the 
Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Dr. Mir Sladat 
Ali Khan as the Presiding Officer with headquarters at Somajiguda , Hyderabad , and 
refer the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Whether , having regard to the nature of duties performed by Shri M . J . 
Samuel, Detention Clerk at No. 5 Inc. Coal Screening Plant Rudrampur, of the 
Singareni Collleries Company Ltd ., the management of the said collieries is justified 
in not placing the workman In Grade II clerical scale of Rs. 48 — 100 ? 
( 2 ) If not, to what relief is the workman entitled and from what date ? 

[No. F . 7 / 14 / 64 -LRII . ] 
$ . 0 , 4008 . — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the M / s . Bengal Coal Com 
pany Ltd ., P . O . Dishergarh ( Burdwan ) and their workmen in respect of the 
matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas , the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by cláuse ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Dispute Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 


Sec. 9( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 21 , 1964 / KARTIKA 30, 1886 4465 


SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Whether the management of Sodepur 9 / 10 Pits Colliery were justified 

in terminating with effect from 10th June 1964 the services of Shri 
Ghamman Mahato , Explosive carrier ; 


[ No. 6 / 70 / 84 - LR - II.] 


S . O . 4009 .--- Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the East Bastacolla Colliery 


and their workmen in respect of the matters speciflcd in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ; 

And , whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 


SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Whether the stoppage from work of Shri Jagannath Chamar , Miner 

of East Bastacolla Collicry of Messrs . East Bastacolla Colliery Com 
pany , Post Office Jharia ( District Dhanbad ) , from the 11th May, 1964 

was caused by the management of the said Colliery ? 
( 2 ) If so , to what relief is the workman entitled ? 

[No. 2 / 116 /64 - LR - II.] 
New Delhi, the 11th November 1964 
$ . O . 4010 . - Whercas , the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Jamadoba , Colliery of 
Messrs . Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited , Jamadoba , Post Office , Jealgora , 
District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas , the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Whether the suspension of Shri K . N . Ojha , Clerk , of Jamadoba Colliery 

of Messrs . Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited , Jamadoba , Post 
Omce Jealgora ( District Dhanbad ) for ten days with effect from the 

6th July , 1964 , by the management of the said Colliery , was justified ? 
( 2 ) If not , to what relief is the workman entitled ? 

[ No . 2 / 119 /64 -LR. II. ]. 


New Delhi, the 12th November 1964 
S . O . 4011. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Bankola Colliery P . O . 
Ukhra , Dist . Burdwan , and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in 
the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the sald 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now . therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act, 


4466 THE GAZET TE OF INDIA : NOV, 21, 1964 /KARTIKA 30, 1886 (PART 11--Seo. $ ( 11)] 


SCHEDULE 


Whether the suspension of Shri Netai Toli, Dresser of Bankolla Colllery al per 
management s order dated the 25th April 1964 was an act of victimisation ? If so , 
to what relief is the worker entitled ? 

[ No . 6 / 78 / 64 -LRII.) 
H , C . MANGHANI, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 11th November 1964 
8 . 0 , 4012 . — The following draft of a scheme further to amend the Bombay 
Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment ) Scheme, 1956 , which the Central 
Government proposes to make, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 4 of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment ) Act , 1948 
( 9 of 1948 ) , is published as required by the said sub - section for the information 
of all persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby given that the 
said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 10th December, 1964. 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be taken into consideration 
by the Central Government. 

Draft Scheme 
1. This Scheme may be called the Bombay Dock Workers (Regulation of 
Employment ) Amendment Scheme, 1964 . 

2 . In the Bombay Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1956 , in 
clause 21 , the existing " Explanation " shall be numbered as “ Explanation I" and 
after the Explanation I as so numbered , the following “ Explanation " shall be 
Inserted , namely : 
" Explanation II.-- For the purpose of this clause, the expression month 
shall not include the days of weekly ofl." 

[No. 520 / 8 / 64-Fac. ] 
New Delhi, the 12th November 1964 
8 . 0 , 4013 . — The following draft of a scheme further to amend the Madras 
Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1956 , which the Central Gov 
ernment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (1 ) 
of section 4 of the Dock Workers ( Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (9 of 1948 ) , 
is published as required by the said sub - section for the information of all persons 
likely to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be 
taken into consideration on or after the 20th December , 1964 , 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be taken into considera 
tion by the Central Government. 

Draft Scheme 
1. This Scheme may be called the Madras Dock Workers (Regulation of 

Employment) Amendment Scheme, 1964 , 
2 . In the Madras Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment Scheme, 1956 , 

in clause 31 , the existing " Explanation " shall be numbered as 
" Explanation I" and after Explanation I as so numbered , the following 

" Explanation " shall be inserted , namely :-- 
" Explanation II — For the purpose of this clause, the expression "month " 

shall not include the days of weekly off provided that there is no 
payment for the day of the weekly off." 

[No . 525 / 2 / 61-Fac. ] 
K , D . HAJELA , Under Secy . 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PR888 , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATION , DELHI, 1964 . 


